


  








    Deeds: A.1501 - A.1600 | British History Online
    


      




    
    
    
    
    



  Skip to main content



  
    





  
    
          
  
    
  
      
      BHO | British History Online
    
      
  


    
                      
    Main navigation
    
  
  
        

  
    
      
    
    
                    
              
                  Browse Catalogue
                      
          
                  Subject guides
                      
          
                  Using BHO
                      
          
                  About
                      
          
                  Subscribe
                      
          
                  News
                      
        
  
    
  


  


    
                      
    Login
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Login
              
          
        Register
              
        
  


  



    
  

  
  

  

  

  

  

    

      
      
      
            
  
    
        ';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
    Breadcrumb
    
          
                  Home
              
          
                  A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds
              
        
  

  


  
    
      
  Deeds: A.1501 - A.1600



  

  
    
      

  
    A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1. 

    
    Originally published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1890.

    
  



    This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 
    



  
    
      Citation:
        
          BHO
          Chicago
          MLA		
        
    
    
      
'Deeds: A.1501 - A.1600', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1, ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1890), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol1/pp171-184 [accessed 3 July 2026].
    


    
      
'Deeds: A.1501 - A.1600', in A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1. Edited by   H C Maxwell Lyte (London,  1890), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
 https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol1/pp171-184.
    


    
      
"Deeds: A.1501 - A.1600". A Descriptive Catalogue of Ancient Deeds: Volume 1. Ed.  H C Maxwell Lyte (London, 1890), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/ancient-deeds/vol1/pp171-184.
    


  
  
    
  

  
    

  

            
        Keyword Highlight
        
        Search
        
      
     
    
            
  



A.1501 - A.1600





[Middx.]

A. 1501. Confirmation by Pentecost, son of Alured Mercer, to Henry,
son of Henry Blund, and Richard his brother, of the land that Alice his
sister granted them in Aldermannesbury and Bassieshaghe, situate as
described; which land he also releases to them. If his sister Alice cannot
warrant the lands to them, as being a woman, he will warrant them.
Witnesses:—Ralph Long, Richard de Angulo, John de Cornhell, and
others (named). [Temp. John: see A. 1502.] Injured.



[Middx.]

A. 1502. Deed of sale and release by Alice, daughter of Alured
Mercer, to the prior and canons of Holy Trinity, London, for 50s., of a quit
rent of 6s. in London which she had for lands that Henry and Richard,
sons of Henry Blund, held of her, situate as described in Bassishaghe
and Aldermannebury. Witnesses:—Henry, Mayor of London, Roger son
of Alan, Alan son of Peter, William de Haverhull, Constantine son of
Alulf, Norman Blund, John de Cay, then sheriffs, and others (named).
[4 John.] Seal.

[Page 172]


[Middx.]

A. 1503. Undertaking by Richard, the prior, and the convent of Holy
Trinity, London, that they will not compel Sir William de Say or his
heirs to warrant to them the lands and tenements which they hold of his fee in
Edelmeton on account of a certain confirmation he has made to them, unless
he lays claim to them or makes undue exactions from them for the same.
Witnesses:—Sir Gilbert de Say, Sir John de Berners, John de Gateden,
William de Mares, steward, Alan de Waledon, William de Forda. [A.D.
1223–1252.] Portion of seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1504. Will of William called Bonserjaunt, moneyer and citizen of
London. Leaves to Agnes his wife his tenement and houses in the suburb
of London, in the parish of St. Botolph without Alegate, and all his goods
and chattels. London, Tuesday next after St. Valentine, 1325.

Endorsed: Note of probate, vi. kal. Marcii, 1325. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1505. Grant by Adam Rous, surgeon, citizen of London, and
Juliana his wife, to Robert de la Launde, goldsmith, citizen of London,
John Ive and Laurence Wynpole, clerks, of their tenement that formerly
belonged to Hawisia, relict of William Swalwe, and after that to William
Waryn, situate as described in Wode Strete in the parish of St. Alphege
within Crepulgate. A covenant specified as to warranty. Nicholas
Brembre, then Mayor, Thomas Cornwaleys and John Bosham, then
sheriffs of London. 15 October, 2 Richard II. Seal of arms.



[Herts.]

A. 1506. Grant by Alexander Goldston to Emma his daughter, for
10s., of a messuage, 3 'particule' of land and 2 'tentoria' in Fullers'
Street, St. Albans, situate as described; paying therefore yearly ½d. to
himself, 2s. 4d. to the brethren and nuns of St. Mary de Pratis, and 4d. to
the heirs of John Woolmonger (Lanarii). Witnesses:—John de Northone,
then provost of St. Albans, William le Noreis, Stephen Grasenloil, and
and others (named). 50 Henry III.



[Middx.]

A. 1507. Grant by John de Cantebrigia, fisherman, and Thomas
Broun, citizen of London, to Constance, late wife of Thomas Rotour alias
Skynnere, for her life, of 3 shops with gardens adjoining in St. Mary's parish
in Algatestret, London, situate as described, which they had by feoffment
of the said Rotour; with remainders to Alice, Cecilia and Joan, daughters
of Constance, for their lives, and after their decease to the prior and convent
of Holy Trinity by Algate. London, 23 March, 49 Edward III.



[Middx.]

A. 1508. Demise by the prior and convent of Holy Trinity, London,
to John Haukyn and Joan his wife, for their lives and for a year after the
longer liver of them, of the inner close with buildings and gardens, and free
ingress and egress through the outer gate, which they acquired of Master
Henry de Cantuar' in the parish of St. Katherine within Algate, London, at
a yearly rent of 28s. Clauses specified defining the tenancy. Chapter
House of the convent, the Nativity of St. John the Baptist, 26 Edward III.
Portions of two seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1509. Release by Walter de Essex, and Walter his son and heir,
to John, the prior, and the canons of Holy Trinity, London, of an annual
quit rent of half a marc which the latter bought of William de Totham,
and Margery his wife, in Sopereslane. Witnesses:—Ralph Hardel, then
Mayor of London, Richard de Ewelle and William Eswy, then sheriffs,
Nicholas Bat, and others (named). St. Laurence's day, 41 Henry III.



[Middx.]

A. 1510. Confirmation by Thomas Chamberlain, son of Robert
Chamberlain, to the prior and canons of Holy Trinity, London of the grant
that John de Baillio made them of a rent of 12d. which the said Thomas
presented to him, out of the rent of 2s. paid by Andrew the Chaplain for
[Page 173]
land by St. Augustine's church: and grant by the same to the same of the
rest of the said rent of 2s. Witnesses:—John son of Daniel, William
Crisp, Richard de Araz, and others (named).



[Middx.]

A. 1511. Grant by James de Haverhell to Seyher, son of Henry son
of Reiner, for 40s., of an annual rent of 5s. that descended to him on the
marriage of Alice his mother, issuing from land in the parish of St. Mary de
Abbecherche, situate as described. Witnesses:—Joce Young, Joce son of
Peter, Roger Blund, Warin son of Nicholas, then aldermen, Geoffrey de
Essex, and others (named). Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1512. Grant by Matilda, late wife of Nicholas de Gypeswyz, clerk,
to Walter, son of Robert le Flemeng, of Bixle, of 2s. yearly quit rent
issuing from land and houses which she and her husbanu bought of Simon
le Gardiner in the parish of St. Botulph without Alegate, towards
Estsmethefeld. Witnesses:—Sir Walter Hervi, then Mayor of London,
Richard de Paris and John de Buttele, sheriffs, Thomas de Wymburne,
then sockenereve of Portsoka, and others (named). [56 Henry III.]



[Middx.]

A. 1513. Grant by William Bocoint, son of Sabelina, to Holy Trinity,
London, for the souls of himself, Agnes his wife, Laurence and Sabelina,
his father and mother, Geoffrey his brother, &c., of 40s. rent issuing from
land, shops, and a dwelling which was John Bocoint's, in the parish of
St. Mary de Archis. Witnesses:—Herbert the Chaplain of St. Laurence's
church, Roger son of Alan, Robert Blund, alderman, William Norrensis,
and others (named).



[Middx.]

A. 1514. Release by Robert, son of John de Cherebure, to Walter
Clerk, son of Robert de Abbecherche, for 40s., of 3s. quit rent which Goda,
late wife of Ralph Fenar', left him by will, issuing from land which the said
Walter holds by the churchyard of Abbecherche. If he cannot warrant the
above to Walter he will give him in exchange land of equal value elsewhere.
Seal.



[Middx.] [Herts.]

A. 1515. Grant by Robert de Aldenham, 'bukillarius,' of London,
to Adam de Stratone, clerk, of the dwelling house within Aldredesgate, in
the parish of St. Agnes, London, which he had by gift of Peter Claunag,
baker, situate as specified: paying him yearly one rose, to the prior and
canons of St. Bartholomew one marc, to the nuns of Ankerwik 8s., to the
nuns of Clerkenwell 7s., to the monks of St. Albans 10s. 8d., and to the monks
of St. Saviour's of Bermondsey 12d. In exchange for this dwelling the
said Adam has given him 26 acres of heath in his manor of Shenlee.
Witnesses:—Sir Stephen de Odeworth, then Constable of the Tower of
London, William de Dunolm and Walter Hervy, then bailiffs of London,
John de Blakethorne, alderman of the said ward, and others (named).
London, St. Bartholomew's day, 52 Henry III. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1516. Grant by Eustace, the prior, and the canons of Holy
Trinity, London, to Laurence Produmme, of Stanstede, and Felicia his
wife, for 5 marcs,of a capital messuage and two shops within Alegate in the
parish of Holy Trinity aforesaid, which they had by grant of Helena,
daughter of Theobald Capillarius, situate as described, at a yearly rent of
7s. Witnesses:— Gregory de Rokesle, then Mayor of London, John
Horn and Ralph Blund, sheriffs, John de Norhamtone, alderman of that
ward, and others (named). [4 Edward I.]



[Middx.]

A. 1517. Indenture certifying that whereas Peter de Westone, oilman
and citizen of London, is bound to pay 34s. 4d. yearly to the prior and
convent of Holy Trinity, London, for the rents of the tenements herein
[Page 174]
specified in the parishes of St. Botolph without Alegate, Holy Trinity the
Great, and St. Mary atte Ax, he has satisfied the convent for the arrears
(amounting to 17l. 13s. 9d.) together with such yearly rent till Michaelmas,
1353, inclusive, by the casting (fusione) for them of a certain bell.
St. Peter ad Vincula, 1345. Seal, broken.



[Middx.]

A. 1518. Grant by Richard, son of Richard de Lothebery, formerly
citizen of London, to Adam de Forsham, citizen and 'mercenarius' of
London, of an annual rent of 2 marcs issuing from the tenement that the said
Adam holds of his grant in the parish of St. Margaret of Lothbury, of
the size and situation specified. Witnesses:—Sir John Bretun, knt., then
Warden of the city of London, Thomas de Suthfolk and Adam de Fouleham,
sheriffs, Solomon le Cotyler, alderman of that ward, and others (named).
1 June, 25 Edward I.



[Middx.]

A. 1519. Demise by Master Thomas Bedyll, prebendary of the prebend
of Mapesbury, Wyllesdon parish, belonging to St. Paul's Cathedral, to
Thomas Broke, citizen and merchant tailor of London, of the said prebend
of Mapesbury with its mansion place, &c., for 60 years from the Annunciation next, at a yearly rent of 10l. Other covenants specified.
18 December, 26 Henry VIII. Seal.



Middx.

A. 1520. Grant by David Selly, of Westminster, to William Dixson,
brewer, of the same, William Thurleby, John Meryden, the elder, John
Brodding, John Nicke, William Coteman and John Broke of a tenement
with meadow thereto annexed by Charyng in Westminster, extent and
situation accurately specified; which he with others acquired as herein
mentioned, from the previous owners named. Charyng, 7 July, 8 Edward IV.
Portion of seal.



Middx.

A. 1521. Demise by John Meryden, late of Westminster, butcher, and
William Cotman, baker, to David Dixson, son of William Dixson, late of
Westminster, brewer, deceased, William Thurleby, John Barret, John
Wyrall and Henry Marbyll of the tenement or barn, with meadow annexed,
at Charyng in Westminster, size and situation specified, which he with others
had by feoffment as above. Charyng, 6 June, 14 Edward IV. Two seals.



Middx.

A. 1522. Grant by David Dixson, son of William Dixson, of Westminster, brewer, deceased, to William Thurleby, of the tenement or barn
with meadow annexed, by Charyng in Westminster, situation and extent
described, which he with Thurlby, Barrett, and others had by demise of
John Meryden. Appoints Thomas Burgeys his attorney to deliver Thurlby
possession of the premises. Witnesses:—Thomas Hunt, steward of
St. Peter's monastery, John Colyns, bailiff of the liberty of the abbot of
Westminster, and others (named). Charyng, 24 July, 18 Edward IV.
Seal.



Middx.

A. 1523. Release by Alice, late wife of Thomas Hulle, and afterwards
wife of William Worsewyk, now widow, to Robert Charryngworth, John
Corve, Thomas Hewster, Thomas Grey, John Beek, of co. Oxford, Roger
Popingeay, John Clynk, John Gedney, Thomas Tottisham, and John
Wygmour of all the lands and possessions of the said Hulle in Middlesex.
Weptminster, St. Andrew's day, 6 Henry V. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1524. Grant by Simon Barton, clerk, and Richard Gatyn, of
Westminster, to King Richard II. of a tenement and waste 'placea' of
ground adjoining in Westminster, of the extent and situation specified,
and two cottages situated together in Langedych, as described. 2 April,
22 Richard II. Two seals, one of arms.

[Page 175]


[Middx.]

A. 1525. Release by John Chalton, citizen and brewer of London, to
the prior and convent of Holy Trinity, London, of all manner of actions he
may have against them by reason of the account of the receipt of money
assigned by Lucy, his late wife, deceased, to Thomas atte Hale, a fellow
canon of the prior's, or for any other cause. London, 13 March,
39 Edward III. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1526. Release by Thomas Brightman to Thomas Crumwell, to the
only use of the King, for the sum of 106l. 10s. received from Crumwell
and John abbot of Westminster, of the tenement called 'the Berehouse'
built at Endiff in Westminster, which the said abbot and convent of
Westminster demised to him and Joan his wife by indenture dated
1 December, 1520, 12 Henry VIII., for 49 years from the Michaelmas then
last past, at a yearly rent of 5 marcs. 18 May, 23 Henry VIII. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1527. Release by William Babyngton, Chief Justice of the King's
Common Bench, and Sir Richard Stok, chaplain, to Roger Westwode, clerk,
of an enclosed parcel of meadow in Westminster, situate as described,
which the said three parties lately had by feoffment of John Legburn, clerk.
2 February, 11 Henry VI. Two seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1528. Grant by John Legburn, clerk, to William Babyngton,
Chief Baron of the King's Exchequer, Roger Westwode, clerk, and Richard
Stok, of an enclosed parcel of meadow in Westminster, situate as described,
which he with others named had by feoffment of John Weste, late keeper
of the King's palace at Westminster. 5 May, 1 Henry VI.



[Middx.]

A. 1529. Demise by Robert Nyk and John Olyver to Thomas
Wesynham, Richard Saxby, clerk, John Berewe, John Braddyng, Henry
Marbill, and Alice his wife, of a parcel of meadow with the dovecote built
thereon in Westminster, situate as described, which they with others named
lately had by feoffment of Roger Westwode, clerk. 22 November,
28 Henry VI. Seal and fragment, injured.



[Middx.]

A. 1530. Release by James, the master, and the brethren of the
hospital of St. James without London, for 30s., to Richard de Willehale,
citizen and draper of London, of a quit rent of 3s. yearly issuing from land
in the parish of St. Agues by Aldrethesgate, situate as described.
Witnesses:—Robert de Cornhull and Thomas de Basing, then bailiffs of
London, John de Balkthorn, then alderman of that ward, Ralph Blund, and
others (named). [54 Henry III.]



Middx.

A. 1531. Release by John Hyller to Robert Haxay of a messuage with
curtilage, situate as described, in Totehill Street, Westminster, and a
curtilage and acre of land in Eye, which they two lately acquired of William
Sergeant and Ralph Baker, of Stanes. Exaltation of Holy Cross,
8 Henry IV. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1532. Release by Thomas bishop of Durham to John Legburn,
clerk, of all the enclosed parcel of meadow, situate as described, in Westminster, that they two, with others named, had by feoffment of John Weste,
late keeper of the King's palace at Westminster. 3 May, 1 Henry VI.



Middx.

A. 1533. Demise by John Randolff, William Folton, chaplain, James
Fytte, Robert Norton, and William Jarden to Richard, son of Henry
Marbull, of two tenements with a garden opposite the archbishop of
York's manor in the parish of St. Margaret, Westminster; and of an acre
of land and a piece of meadow in Eyfeld and Eymore by Westminster,
which they lately had by grant of the said Henry Marbull; with remainders
in succession to Robert, William, and Margaret, other children of the said
Henry Marbull. 17 July, 19 Edward IV. Portions of four seals.

[Page 176]


[Middx.]

A. 1534. Release by Stephen Chese, of Charryngge, to John West,
keeper of the King's private palace at Westminster, of a piece of meadow
situate as described in Westminster, abutting on the ditch called 'Langedich'. 6 January, 2 Richard II. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1535. Grant by Robert de Cantilupe to John de Atleburgh, of the
messuage and tenement in Westminster that Master Roger de Cantilupe
bought of William, son of Stephen de Ikenham, situate as described, and
extending to the Thames, at a yearly rent of a pair of white gloves or 1d.
Witnesses:—Henry de Belegrave, Robert Bunton, Richer de Cruce, John
de Hathfeld, and others (named). Seal.



Middx.

A. 1536. Release by Richard Hampkyn, of Westminster, bucklermaker, and Agnes his wife, to Thomas Crumwell, to the only use of the
King, for 30l. received from the King by the hands of Crumwell and the
abbot of Westminster, of three tenements in King's Strete, Westminster,
demised to the said Agnes under the name of Agnes Currer, widow, by
John, the abbot, and the convent of Westminster, by indenture dated 1 June
1527, 19 Hen. VIII., for 38 years from the Annunciation then last past, at
an annual rent of 53s. 4d. 18 May, 23 Henry VIII. Seal. English.



[Middx.]

A. 1537. Grant by Robert Haxay to Richard Walsshe, of Lynford,
Richard Otull and Robert Nik of a messuage with curtilage in Tothill
Street, Westminster, situate as described, and a curtilage and an acre of
land in Eye: all which he had by feoffment of William Sergant, of Staines,
and Ralph Baker. Westminster, Thursday after St. Gregory the Pope,
2 Henry VI. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1538. Release by Lambert le Peutrer, and Lucy his wife, to the
abbot and convent of Vale Royal of the lands, &c., in Westminster, that
belonged to Elizabeth de Porlee, mother of the said Lucy; and of 2½ acres
in Westminster, which they sought against the abbot by writ De ingressu
before the King's Justices de Banco. London, Wednesday before St. Mark's
day, 5 Edward II. Fragments of two seals.



Middx.

A. 1539. Demise by John Randolf, William Folton, chaplain, James
Fytte, Robert Norton and William Jarden to Robert Marbull, son of Henry
Marbull, of a chief tenement with close and two tenements adjoining,
opposite the archbishop of York's manor in St. Margaret's parish, Westminster, with remainders in succession to Richard, William, and Margaret,
wife of William Mathewe, children of the said Henry Marbull, by whom
they were enfeoffed with the premises and other property. 17 July,
19 Edward IV. Four seals remaining.



[Middx.]

A. 1540. Grant by John Wygmore to John Vaumpage, John Franke,
clerk, William Merbury and David Selly, of Westminster, of the messuage
in Kyngestrete, Westminster, situate as described, lately called 'Hoppynghale,' and now 'le Rede Lyon.' 23 June, 12 Henry VI. Seal.



Middx.

A. 1541. Release by John Barret, John Wyrall, and Henry Marbyll,
to David Dixson, son of the late William Dixson, of Westminster, brewer,
of a tenement or barn, and parcel of meadow annexed, at Charyng,
Westminster, of the extent and situation specified, which they together
with the said David and William Thurleby lately had by demise of John
Meryden and William Cotman. 20 July, 18 Edward IV. Three seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1542. Grant by John West, keeper of the King's palace at
Westminster, to Sir Robert Bever, clerk, William Boteler, of Wandsworth,
and John Ely, of Westminster, of the parcel of meadow in Westminster,
situate as described, which he had by feoffment of Stephen Chese. 10 June,
5 Henry IV.

[Page 177]


Middx.

A. 1543. Grant by Hugh Marble, of Hereford, goldsmith, to Cristopher
Hales, attorney-general, Thomas Crumwell, and Thomas Alvarde, to the
use of King Henry VIII., of five messuages, gardens, and a close, lately
Robert Forster's, opposite the King's manor in St. Margaret's parish,
Westminster, and also of an acre of land and a meadow in Eyfield and
Eymore by Westminster. 2 August, 23 Henry VIII.



Middx.

A. 1544. Release by William de Bury to Robert Charryngworth,
John Corve, Thomas Heuster, Thomas Grey, and Roger Popyngeay, of
all the lands, &c., in Middlesex with which Elena Hulle, widow, enfeoffed himself and others. Westminster, 2 February, 12 Henry IV.
Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1545. Grant by Roger Belet, and Agnes his wife, to Ralph de
Waddone, clerk, of a messuage in Tothull Street, Westminster, situate as
described. Tuesday the feast of St. John ante Portam Latinam,
45 Edward III. Portion of seal of arms.



[Middx.]

A. 1546. Grant by John West, keeper of the King's palace at
Westminster, to Thomas Longley and John Legburn, clerks, Thomas
Charleton and John Roundel, esquires, of a parcel of meadow in Westminster, situate as described, which he had by feoffment of Stephen Chese.
The Nativity of St. John the Baptist, 6 Henry IV.



[Middx.]

A. 1547. Release by Robert Bever, clerk, William Boteler, of
Wandesworth, and John Ely, of Westminster, to John West, keeper of
the King's palace at Westminster, of a meadow in Westminster, situate
as described, which they had by grant of the said West. 1 June,
6 Henry IV. Two seals.



Middx.

A. 1548. Grant by Henry Marbull, of Westminster, to John Randolff,
Sir William Folton, chaplain, James Fytte, Robert Norton, and William
Jarden, of five messuages with gardens, and a close, opposite the
archbishop of York's manor in St. Margaret's parish, Westminster,
and land in Eymore and Eyfield by Westminster: appointing an attorney
to deliver them possession of the same. 4 January, 17 Edward IV.



Middx.

A. 1549. Award of the arbitrators chosen to decide the dispute
between David Selby and Henry Marbill, as to a dyke with certain ground
running between their respective tenements, situate as described in
Westminster. 2 September, 38 Henry VIII. Portions of the arbitrators'
seals.



Middx.

A. 1550. Demise by Robert Wythes, a yeoman of the King's guard,
and Joan his wife, to Thurston Meere, of Westminster, baker, of a tenement called 'the Rame,' on the east side of Kingstreet, Westminster, and
two other tenements adjoining, for 20 years from Christmas next, at a
yearly rent of 5l. 10s. Other covenants specified. Each party gives bond
to the other in 40l. for performance of this indenture. 23 February,
16 Henry VIII. English.

Annexed: The above-mentioned bond of Robert Wythes, and Joan his
wife, to Thurston Meere in 40l. 23 February, 16 Henry VIII. One
seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1551. Demise by John, the abbot, and the convent of Westminster,
to John Benett, citizen and grocer of London, of a brewing messuage
called 'le Lambe' with garden in King Street, Westminster, situate as
described on the river bank, and the vessels as herein specified used in
brewing, for 40 years from Michaelmas next, at a yearly rent of 5 marcs;
and also 2 acres of land in St. James's field by Westminster, at a yearly
rent of 2s. 8d. Other covenants specified. The Chapter House, Westminster, 9 June, 1531, 22 Henry VIII. Portion of seal.

[Page 178]


Middx.

A. 1552. Demise by Robert Corall, yeoman, cook of the lord Cardinal's
hall, to Henry Hayes, of Westminster, tallowchandler, of the tenement the
latter now dwells in on the north side of King Street, Westminster, over
the Lamb Alley, for 10 years from the Annunciation last past, at a yearly
rent of 36s. 8d.; reserving to Corall free right of way to his stable
through the yard of the tenement. Other covenants specified. 12 April,
18 Henry VIII. English.

Annexed: Bond of Robert Corall to Henry Hayes, in 20 marcs, to
observe the above indenture. 12 April, 18 Henry VIII. Seal.



Middx.

A. 1553. Demise by John Henbury, of Westminster, brewer, to
Robert Penythorn, of the same, carpenter, of his "housings called the
hall, parlour, kitchen and the little chamber" which Thomas Tomlyn now
inhabits, with the chambers over them, a stable, and the wharf at the back
of the brewhouse called 'the Red Lion' in Westminster, situate as
described, with free passage through the lane at all times, and a garden, for
120 years from to-day, at a yearly rent of 56s. 8d. Other covenants
specified as to repairs, gravelling the lane, &c. 1 May, 21 Henry VIII.
Seal. English.



[Middx.]

A. 1554. Grant by Master John Gurnay, the King's squire, of
Westminster, to William Dyxson, of the same, of a chace next the Lamb
Brewhouse, in King Street, Westminster, with free entry for man, horse,
and cart through it to carry and recarry from the King's High Street there
through Gurnay's gate to the ground of the said William, for 30 years from
the Annunciation next, at a yearly rent of 6s. 8d. Other covenants as to
gravelling the chace, repairing the gate house and gates, &c. 20 February,
36 Henry VI. English.



Middx.

A. 1555. Grant by John Olney, citizen and grocer of London, to
Reginald Cokyn, son of John Cokyn, John Sutton, citizen and grocer of
London, Richard Richmond, of Middlesex, Sir John Kyng, chaplain, and
John Snell, clerk, of all lands, &c., in Westminster and elsewhere in
Middlesex, lately belonging to Thomas Fouler, otherwise called Thomas
Hull. 6 January, 12 Henry IV. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1556. Release by John Benteley and William Bury to John
Cornewayle, knt., Robert Charryngworth, John Corve, Thomas Hewster,
John Beeks, of co. Oxon., Roger Popyngeay, and others named, of all
lands, &c., in Westminster or elsewhere which they, with others now dead,
lately had by feoffment of Elena Hulle, widow. 2 October, 2 Henry VI.
Two seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1557. Release by Thomas Fouler, of Wynterton, co. York, cousin
and heir of William Fouler alias Hull, formerly of Westminster, and
Thomas Fouler alias Hull, son of the said William, deceased, to John
Olney, citizen and grocer of London, of all the lands and tenements
formerly belonging to William and Thomas aforesaid in St. Margaret's
parish, Westminster. 11 February, 4 Henry IV. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1558. Release by Reginald Cokyn, son of John Cokyn, John
Sutton, citizen and grocer of London, Richard Richemond, of Middlesex,
Sir John Kyng, chaplain, and John Snell, clerk, to Robert Charryngworth,
of all the lands, &c., in Westminster, which they had by grant of John
Olney, which lately belonged to William Hulle. 11 May, 13 Henry IV.
Five seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1559. Release by John Henburie, of Westminster, brewer, to
Thomas Crumwell, to the King's use, for 160l. paid him by the King by
the hands of Crumwell and the abbot of Westminster, of all the tenements,
[Page 179]
&c., in King Street, Westminster, which he had by demise of John, the
abbot, and the convent of Westminster, dated July 25, 23 Henry VII., for
54 years from Michaelmas then next coming, at a yearly rent of 5l. 12s. 8d.,
and of all the cottages, &c., against Charing Cross which he had by a
similar demise, dated 19 December, 11 Henry VIII., for 30 years from
Christmas then next ensuing, at a yearly rent of 50s., except the tenements
in Theving Lane. 18 May, 23 Henry VIII. English, Seal.



Middx.

A. 1560. Release by John Benet, citizen and grocer of London, to
Thomas Crumwell, to the King's use, for 66l. 13s. 4d., received from the
King by the hands of Crumwell and the abbot of Westminster, of a brewhouse called 'the Lyon' at Charing Cross and barn adjoining, &c., granted
to the late John Pomfret, of Westminster, brewer, and Joan his wife, by
demise from John, the abbot, and the convent of Westminster, dated
15 November, 1525, 17 Henry VIII., for 30 years from the previous
Michaelmas, at a yearly rent of 6l. 6s. 8d.; which he now possesses in
accordance with the last will of the said John Pomfret. 18 May,
23 Henry VIII. English. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1561. Demise by John Kellet, of Westminster, to William Porter,
citizen and carpenter of London, of the tenement adjoining the Red Lyon
in King's Street, Westminster, for 30 years from Michaelmas next at a
yearly rent of 3l., together with a piece of ground containing 12 feet at the
nether end of the house, as described. Other covenants specified. 17 September, 22 Henry VIII. English.



[Middx.]

A. 1562. Grant by Roger Westwode, clerk, to William Wappelode,
Robert Nyk, Thomas Osebarne, John Olyver, and Robert Forster, of the
parcel of meadow, with dovecot thereon, situate as described in Westminster,
which he, with William Babyngton, Chief Justice of the King's Common
Bench, and Sir Richard Stok, chaplain, had by gift of John Legburn,
clerk. 10 February, 11 Henry VI. Seal, injured.



[Middx.]

A. 1563. Release by Jeffrey Tull, of Westminster, tiler, to Thomas
Crumwell, to the King's use, for 50l. received from the King by the
hands of Crumwell and John, abbot of Westminster, of the inn called 'the
Rose,' on the west side of King Street, Westminster, demised to Tull by
William Blaknall, Hugh Morland, and William Hachet, masters and
wardens of the Fraternity of Our Lady in St. Margaret's, Westminster, on
24 March, 9 Henry VII., for 50 years from the Annunciation then next
following, at a yearly rent of 4l. 18 May, 23 Henry VIII. English.
Seal.



Middx.

A. 1564. Demise by Elizabeth Palle, of Westminster, widow, to
Richard Shele, of the same, baker, of her tenement and brewhouse called
'the Axe,' in King Street, Westminster, with a close and all utensils
thereto belonging, for 18 years from Christmas next, at a yearly rent of 7l.
Other covenants specified as to repairs, payment of rent, &c. 6 November,
14 Henry VIII. English. Seal. Injured.



Middx.

A. 1565. Release by John Kellet, of Westminster, to Thomas
Crumwell, to the King's use, for 88l. received from the King by the hands
of Crumwell and the abbot of Westminster, of a tenement with garden
in King Street, Westminster, which he had of John, the abbot, and the
convent of Westminster by demise dated 17 July, 1528, 20 Hen. VIII.,
for 40 years from the Annunciation then next coming, at a yearly rent of
26s. 8d. 18 May, 23 Henry VIII. Seal. English.

[Page 180]


Middx.

A. 1566. Release by William Huchen, of Stangrounde, Hunts,
yeoman, late of London, mercer, to Cristopher Hales, attorney-general,
Thomas Crumwell, and Thomas Alvarde, to the King's use, of a messuage
called 'Copped Hall' and garden adjoining, in Westminster, and of all
his lands, &c., in the same town. 5 October, 23 Henry VIII. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1567. Grant by William de Sutton son and heir of William de
Sutton, of London, dyer, to Richard Rook, the younger, of Westminster,
and Joan his wife, of 18 acres of land, situate as described, at Lowsmede,
Wynmulleshull, Kyngescondutesheved, and elsewhere [in Westminster].
Westminster, Monday next after the Conversion of St. Paul, 39 Edward III.
Portion of seal of arms.



[Middx.]

A. 1568. Certificate by Richard Kyppetre, Joan his wife, Margaret
Buckoynte, and Margery Buckoynte to the abbot and convent of
Westminster, that they have granted to Sir Adam de Strattone the annual
rent of 2½ marcs, which the abbey was wont to pay to lady Grace de la
Donne, late the wife of Henry Buckoynte, their ancestor, by way of dower,
for a garden held of them, and which rent would revert to them on
the death of the said Grace. London, Saturday after St. Faith the Virgin,
56 Henry III. Four seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1569. Grant by Odo de Westm' to Sir Adam de Stratton, of an
annual rent of 17s. 4d. issuing from a tenement in Westminster, paying
therefor yearly 1d. to himself and 16d. to Robert de Dol. Witnesses:—
Ralph Somer, Ralph Testard, and others (named).



[Middx.]

A. 1570. Release by Bartholomew de Hallinggeberri, son and heir of
Adam de Hallinggeberi, formerly citizen of London, to Henry de Langare,
citizen and goldsmith of London, and Emma de Hallinggeberi his wife,
Bartholomew's sister, of the 'placea' of land which the latter had by
bequest of Adam their father, in the parish of St. John Zakary,
London, situate as described, which Margery Somery, formerly wife
of John Somery, lately also released to them. Witnesses:—John de
Wenesgrave, then Mayor, William Forneys and John Priour, sheriffs of
London, Elyas de Suffolk, alderman of that ward, and others (named).
London, Friday the feast of St. Mathias, 11 Edward II.



[Middx.]

A. 1571. Grant by William, son of William Chaplain, to Alexander
le Paumer, of the land lying between his own and Roger Burgoine's lands at a
yearly rent of 3s. Witnesses:—Nicholas Cavel, alderman, Godfrey Blund,
Ranulph Stochard, Robert Lincolniens', Robert son of Alured, Roger
Burgoine, and others (named).



[Middx.]

A. 1572. Release by Elianor Riche, cousin and heir of Philip le
Taillour, late citizen of London, to Katherine atte Polle, Walter Walshe,
Richard Parker, clerk, Gilbert Noel, clerk, and Peter Turk, of all shops
and tenements formerly Richard Lacer's, in the parish of St. Michael,
Paternostercherche, London, which shops, &c., she impleaded against the
said Katherine in execution of the will of Philip le Taillour. Witnesses:—
William Halden, recorder of London, William Walworth and others
(named). 1 May, 50 Edward III. Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1573. Deed of sale by Martin son of Benedict, to Richard, the
prior, and the convent of Holy Trinity, London, for 7s., of the rent of 12d.
paid by Richard le Furmager, for land he holds of him in the parish of
St. Botulph without Alegate. Witnesses:—William and Ralph de Alegate,
William Holege, John de Lesnes, and others (named). [A.D. 1223–
1252.]

[Page 181]


[Middx.]

A. 1574. Grant by Sir Martin, rector of St. Faith's, London, and
John Blakeney, citizen and fishmonger of London, that whereas Jordan de
Barton is bound to pay them 100l. in Martin's house at London, at
Christmas next; whensoever Jordan have by grant of King Richard II.,
the lands and tenements formerly Master Richard Scarnyng's, in the parish
of St. Botulph without Aldrichegate, if he enfeof them before Easter next
with the lands and tenements collated to him for his life by King Edward,
lately deceased; that then the said bond shall be void. London, in the
house of the said Martin, Sunday, the feast of the Apostles Simon and
Jude, 4 Richard II. Portion of seal.



[ ]

A. 1575. Deed of sale by Adam de Sumeri, knt., to Saer son of
Henry, citizen of London, for 40s., of all his portion of the meadow called
'Acressete,' and a messuage in Sanle, situate as described. Witnesses:—
Sir Thomas de Wauz, and Alan his son, John Bukerel, then rector of
Sanlee, Godfrey the Chaplain of Collee, Thomas de Basinges and others
(named).



[Middx.]

A. 1576. Release by Agnes, late wife of Nicholas de Marisco, to
Richard, the prior, and the canons of Holy Trinity, London, of the land in
Edelmeton which they bought of her said late husband. Witnesses:—
John Blund, Laurence and Colin de Forda, John de Anesti, Roger Blund,
John de Teffunte, and others (named). [A.D. 1223–1252.]



[Middx.]

A. 1577. Grant by Geoffrey de Marisco, son of John de Marisco, of
Edelmeton, to Richard, the prior, and the canons of Holy Trinity, London,
of an acre of meadow in Edelmeton marsh, situate as described.
Witnesses:—John Blund, Thomas, William, and Richard Picot, Hugh
Peverel, and others (named). [A.D. 1223–1252.]



[Middx.]

A. 1578. Grant by Nicholas de Marisco, son of John, to Richard, the
prior, and the canons of Holy Trinity, London, for 10 marcs, of 4½ acres
in Edelmeton, in Langehege field, situate as described. Witnesses:—John
Blund, William and Laurence de Forda, Hugh Peverel, John de Anesty,
and others (named). [A.D. 1223–1252.]



[Middx.]

A. 1579. Release by Matilda, late wife of William Cook (Coci), to
John, the prior, and the canons of Holy Trinity, London, of land in
Langhege and Coldesfeld, in Edelmeton, which her late husband formerly
sold to John Sawale and Adam le Tailur. Witnesses:—William de Forda,
Peter Spirk, Hugh Peverel, John Sawale, and others (named). [A.D.
1252–1258.] Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1580. Release by John Sawale, of Edelmeton, to Gilbert, the
prior, and the canons of Holy Trinity, London, for 3s., of a yearly rent of
7½d., of which they paid him 7d. for a tenement they hold of him, and
Richard Cook ½d. for a tenement he holds, in Edelmeton: saving the
service of ½d. a year due to Sir William de Say. Witnesses:—Laurence de
la Forde, Thomas and William Pycot, Richard de Anesty, and others
(named). [A.D. 1260–1264.] Seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1581. Grant by J[ohn] Sawale to [Holy Trinity, London],
for 20s., of land in Langehege, Edelmeton, situate as described.
Witnesses:—Peter Spirk, John, son of John de Marisco, John son of
John, and others (named). [A.D. 1260–1264?] Portion of seal.
Fragment of document.



[Middx.]

A. 1582. Grant by John Sawale to John, the prior, and the convent
of Holy Trinity, London, for one marc, of an acre of land on the Rodweye,
Edelmeton, at a yearly rent of 4d. Witnesses:—William, Laurence and
Nicholas de Forda, Hugh Peverel, Peter Spirk, and others (named).
[A.D. 1252–1258.]

[Page 182]


[Middx.]

A. 1583. Deed of sale by David le Leche, citizen of London, and
Juliana his wife, late wife and executrix of Roger de Mymmes, late citizen
and chandler of London, whose will was proved and enrolled at the Husting
held Monday before St. Petronilla, 25 Edward III., to Sir Walter de
Merstham, rector of St. Alphege's within Crepulgate, London, of the
tenement that Roger inhabited in that parish. Adam Franceys, Mayor,
John Littel and William de Weld, sheriffs of London, Symon de
Worstede, alderman of that ward. Sunday before St. George the Martyr,
28 Edward III.



[Middx.]

A. 1584. Grant by Richard, son of Richard de Lothebery, formerly
citizen of London, to Adam de Forsham, citizen and "mercenarius" of
London, of the house with garden that Alice, late wife of Roger le Coteler,
holds of him for life in the parish of St. Mary, Lothebery, situate as
described. Witnesses:—Sir John Bretun, knt., then warden, Thomas de
Suffolk and Adam de Fouleham, then sheriffs of London, Salomon le
Cotyler, alderman of that ward, and others (named). London, 1 June,
25 Edward I. Portion of seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1585. Grant by Thomas Palmere, citizen and fishmonger of
London, to Nicholas de Exton, citizen of London, John de Oudeby and
Thomas de Morton, clerks, of the tenement with garden which he acquired
of John Stokyngburi in the parish of St. Botulph without Algate, situate
as described. Nicholas Twiford, knt., then Mayor, John Loveye and John
Walcote, then sheriffs of London. Monday the feast of St. Luke the
Evangelist, 13 Richard II. Portion of seal.



[Middx.]

A. 1586. Grant by Hamo le Fisschere, of Chepe, and Matilda his
wife, to John atte Ree, of Lambourne, Essex, of a messuage with shops,
&c., belonging, which they had by gift of Richard de Worsete, in
Estsmethefeld, in the parish of St. Botulph without Alegate, situate as
described; paying the usual services to the chief lords of the fee, and
12d. yearly towards the fabric of St. Botulph's. Witnesses:—Hamo
de Chikewelle, Mayor, William Prodome and Reginald de Conductu,
then sheriffs of London, Sir Richard de Wymbissh, prior of Holy Trinity,
then alderman of that ward, and others (named). Monday next after
St. Luke the Evangelist, 14 Edward II. Two seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1587. Agreement whereby John atte Mede, citizen and hosteler of
London, and Margaret his wife, being possessed, in right of the said
Margaret, of a brewhouse and bakehouse in the parish of St. Botulph
without Bishopsgate on payment of 8s. 1d. yearly quit-rent to the chief
lords of the fee, have granted the brewhouse to William Doder, citizen and
fuller of London, and Molt his wife, at a yearly rent of 5s. 5d. London,
21 January, 31 Edward III. French.



[Middx.]

A. 1588. Grant by John Manyngham, knt., to John Esyngold,
Thomas a Meres, and William Calverd, grocer and citizen of London, of
two messuages that were John Scargill's, deceased, in Algate Strete in the
parish of St. Katherine Christchurch, situate as described, which he and
Edmund Burgh (who has released his right therein to him) had by grant
of Cristopher Throkmerton, son and heir of John Throkmerton, of
co. Gloucester, and Anne his wife, daughter of the said Scargill; appointing
Hugh Standyssh his attorney to deliver them seisin of the premises.
William Martyn, Mayor, William Purches and William Welbek, sheriffs
of London, Ralph Astry, alderman of Algatestrete ward. 26 August,
9 Henry VII. Seal.

[Page 183]


[Middx.]

A. 1589. Licence to Henry de Cantuar' to alienate to the prior and
convent of Holy Trinity, London, for a fine of 20s. paid by the said prior,
a messuage in London, to provide a canon to celebrate divine service daily
at the alter of St. John the Baptist in their church, for the souls of the
said Henry and his ancestors. Staunford, 11 April, 2 Edward III.



[Middx.]

A. 1590. Letters of attorney of Margery, the prioress, and the convent
of Ankerwik, appointing Robert le Bokelere to put Sir Adam de Stratone,
clerk, in full seisin of a yearly rent of 28s. 10d. which they have granted
him, issuing from houses in Aldretheggate, Distaflane, Billingesgate, and
Figstrete. Tuesday next after the Conversion of St. Paul, 54 Henry III.



[Middx.]

A. 1591. Will of Roger de Mymmes, chandler and citizen of London.
Bequests to provide candles, and to pay chaplains and all the order of friars
in London to pray for the souls of himself and Joan and Matilda his
wives, &c. To his wife Juliana he leaves his house in the parish of St.
Alphege by Crepelgate, and all his goods, &c. Sunday, 14 March, 1348,
23 Edward III.

Endorsed: Memorandum of probate before the official of the archdeacon
of London, x Kal. Aprilis, 1348.



[Middx.]

A. 1592. Grant by John Potenhale, tawyer, son and heir of Thomas
Potenhale, late citizen of London, to William Neuport, citizen and
fishmonger of the same, of all the tenements that descended to him after
the death of his father Thomas, in the parish of St. Andrew at Baynard
Castle, London, situate as described. Friday the feast of Cathedra Sancti
Petri, 44 Edward III.



[Middx.]

A. 1593. Demise by Robert Launde, citizen and goldsmith of London,
John Ive and Laurence Wynpole, clerks, to Adam Rous, surgeon, citizen of
London, and Juliana his wife, for their lives, at a yearly rent of a red rose, of
the tenement they lately had by feoffment of the same Adam and Juliana in
Wode Strete, in the parish of St. Alphege within Crepulgate, London,
situate as described. Nicholas Brembre, then Mayor, Thomas Cornwaleys
and John Bosham, sheriffs of London. 18 October, 2 Richard II. Two
seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1594. Grant by Anne Rotheley, widow, and Thomas Bathecrofte,
to William Hody, knt., Chief Baron of the Exchequer, Robert Lytton,
Under-Treasurer of England, and Thomas Stokes, to the use of the said
Anne, of the land in Argaston, situate as described, which they had by
the demise of Richard Hert, the elder, John Haryong and John Hille.
Argaston, 12 October, 6 Henry VII.



[Middx.]

A. 1595. Grant by John de Norton and William de Grendon, citizens
of London, to Nicholas Longge, citizen and butcher, and Alice his wife,
of the brewhouse with two shops, &c., in the parish of St. Botolph without
Algate, London, which they lately bought of Isabel, late wife and executrix,
and the said Nicholas, executor, of William le Fourner. John Not, then
Mayor, Richard de Croydon and John Hiltoft, then sheriffs of London,
Nicholas Algate, prior of Holy Trinity, then alderman of that ward.
4 November, 37 Edward III. Two seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1596. Grant by William Wilde, Thomas Aynderby, and William
Melton, clerks and chaplains, of London, to King Edward III. of the
brewhouse with two shops, &c., which they had by feoffment of Robert
Martyn, white tawyer, citizen of London, and Matilda his wife, in the
parish of St. Boltulph without Algate, London, formerly the property of
William le Furner, situate as described. John Lovekyn, then Mayor,
[Page 184]
John Warde and Thomas ate Leye, sheriffs of London, Nicholas de
Algate, prior of Holy Trinity, alderman of the said ward. 12 April,
41 Edward III. Three seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1597. Release by Nicholas Longe, citizen and butcher of London,
and Alice his wife, to Robert Martyn, white tawyer, and Matilda his wife,
of a brewhouse with two shops, &c., situate as described in the parish of
St. Botulph without Algate, which they had by feoffment of John de Norton
and William de Grendon, and which formerly belonged to William le Furner.
9 January, 40 Edward III. Two seals.

Endorsed: Memorandum of enrolment in the Husting at London,
Monday after Hilary, 40 Edward III.



[Middx.]

A. 1598. Deed of sale by Isabella, late wife and executrix, and Robert
Longge, executor, of William le Fourner, late citizen and butcher of London,
in accordance with the will of the latter, proved and enrolled at the Hustings
of London, to John de Norton and William de Grendon, of the brewhouse
with two shops, &c., situate as described in the parish of St. Botulph
without Algate, which le Fourner acquired of Simon de Plaghe, leech,
and Joan his wife, and which formerly belonged to John Chaucer, vintner,
and Agnes his wife. Stephen de Cavendish, then Mayor, James Andreu and
John de Sancto Albano, then sheriffs of London. 8 August, 37 Edward III.
Portions of two seals.

Endorsed: Memorandum of enrolment in the Husting at London, Monday
after All Saints, 37 Edward III.



[Middx.]

A. 1599. Grant by Robert Martyn, "whitowiere" of London, and
Matilda his wife, to William Wilde, Thomas Aynderby, and William Melton,
chaplains, of the reversion of the above tenement with two shops, &c., in
the parish of St. Botolph without Algate, which came into their hands as
herein described. John Lovekyn, Mayor, Thomas Legh and John Warde,
sheriffs of London. 1 January, 38 Edward III. Two seals.



[Middx.]

A. 1600. Grant by Nicholas Longge, and Alice his wife, to Robert
Martyn, and Matilda his wife, of the premises released in A. 1597.
Witnesses as in A. 1595. London, 12 February, 38 Edward III. Two
seals.






      

  


  

  
    
      PreviousTable of contentsNext
  


      
      

    

  

  
      
      
        
              
  
    
      
            


      
  

    
                      
    Footer menu
    
  
  
        
              
              
        Help
              
          
        About the project
              
          
        Terms of use
              
          
        Privacy and Cookies
              
          
        Accessibility
              
        
  


  


  
    
      
            Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London


      
  


        
      
    
  

  










