











The borough of Kings Lynn: Extracts from the Chamberlains' accounts | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


The Manuscripts of the Corporations of Southampton and Kings Lynn










The borough of Kings Lynn: Extracts from the Chamberlains' accounts










The Manuscripts of the Corporations of Southampton and Kings Lynn Eleventh Report, Appendix: Part III. 


Originally published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1887.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




Historical Manuscripts Commission, 'The borough of Kings Lynn: Extracts from the Chamberlains' accounts', in The Manuscripts of the Corporations of Southampton and Kings Lynn Eleventh Report, Appendix: Part III (London,  1887), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/hist-mss-comm/vol11/pt3/pp213-231 [accessed 3 July 2026].





Historical Manuscripts Commission, 'The borough of Kings Lynn: Extracts from the Chamberlains' accounts', in The Manuscripts of the Corporations of Southampton and Kings Lynn Eleventh Report, Appendix: Part III(London,  1887), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/hist-mss-comm/vol11/pt3/pp213-231.





Historical Manuscripts Commission. "The borough of Kings Lynn: Extracts from the Chamberlains' accounts". The Manuscripts of the Corporations of Southampton and Kings Lynn Eleventh Report, Appendix: Part III. (London, 1887), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/hist-mss-comm/vol11/pt3/pp213-231.














Keyword Highlight

Search









Extracts from the Chamberlains' accounts
[Page 213]
(A). Extracts from The Chamberlains' Accounts.


Chamberlains' Accounts from 1 Edward III to 4 & 5 Philip and
Mary.


1–2 Edward III.—Account of Roger de Buttele, Thomas de Melcheburne, William de Hautboys and Richard de Jakesham, chamberlains
of the town of Lenn of all reccipts and expenses, from Michaelmas-day
1 Edw. III. to the same feast next following. The account of expenses
comprising the following items,—


viiis. viiid. given to Richard de Oxwikes for enrolling the charter
before the king,


iiis. iiiid. given for the expenses of Thomas the clerk at the feast
of St. Michael when he sought the Bish[op] by the advice of Walter of
Norwich,


xxid. given for a hakenye for the use of the same Thomas at that
time,


iiiili. xs. given for the expenses of John de Swerdeston, Thomas de
Melchburne, Thomas the clerk and their associates at York at the feast
of St. Michael for furthering the business with the bishop.


iiis. iid. given to Richard de Oxwikes for judicial briefs for the Prior
of Spaldinges,


xls. given to Adam de Fincham for having counsel about the bishop's
business,


lxxviiis. given for expenses to John de Swerdeston and Roger de
Buttele towards the parliament at York.


5–6 Edward III.—Account of Robert Erl, Thomas Rytwis, Thomas
Baunne and Richard de Wotton, chamberlains from Michaelmas, 5
Edward VI. to the same feast next following. The account of expenses
comprising the following items,—


viiis. given for the sealing of the new statute,


iis. given to three messengers of the king,


iis. given to two messengers of the king,


iiis. vid. given to Thomas the clerk for his expenses towards
Norwic,


xliiis. given for the expenses of Roger de Bristole and Thomas the
clerk towards Oxford and remaining there,


xxxiiis. vid. concerning the expenses of the Maior of Oxford, Richard
de Cary and other burgesses of Oxford, when they answered to the
interrogations of the same persons,


vis. viiid. given to the chamberlain of the court, when the letter was
sealed,


lxixs. given for the expenses of John de Walsingham and Thomas the
clerk,


xxs. given for the expenses of Thomas the clerk at London for the
staple of wools,


xls. for the expenses of Thomas the clerk and his associates at London
to the last parliament,


xxs. given for bread sent to Isabell the old Queen when she came
from Walsingham,


iiili. iiis. iiiid. given for a cask of wine sent to the same queen,


xls. given for oats sent to the same queen,


vs. given for bread sent to the bishop at another time,


viiis. given for wine sent to the same bishop,


iiiis. given for six herouns sent to the same bishop,


xls. given to the clerk of Oxford for having their statutes,


vis. viiid. to the clerk writing the said statutes,


xxs. to Richard de Cary and his associate for the counsel of the same
clerk.


[Page 214]
7–8 Edward III.—Account of Robert Braunch, Hamon de Cokeford,
Robert de Dokkynge and John de Manegrene, chamberlains, &c.
The account of expenses comprising the following items,—


xxvd. given for carrying tribute to the queen to Rising',


xiiis. iiiid. given to the bishop's steward, for his offering,


xviiid. for a pair of gloves to the same steward,


xxid. given for carriage of sand towards the east gates and for a
hakeney to Risinge,


vs. iiiid. given for the expense of the removal of the 'Holygostes,'


iiis. iiiid. given for the expenses of the bailiffs of the Tolboth,


vili. xvs. ixd. for the expenses of William de Brinton and Thomas
the clerk to the parliament at York and for asserting liberty there,


xili. iis. iiiid. given for expenses at St. Botham by the hands of
the chamberlains at the day of love between the men of Lyncoln and
Lenn.


lxvis. viiid. given for a barell of Sturgeoun sent to the Bishop or
Norwyces,


vili. iid. given for flesh and swans sent to the Queen.


8–9 Edward III.—Account of Laurence de Fordham, Reginald de
Sisterne, John de Contessale and William de Hoo, chamberlains, &c.
The account of expenses comprising the following items,—


xxxvis. vid. given for the expenses of the king and queen when they
crossed over the water, by the hands of Laurence de Fordham and
Reginald de Sisterne,


xls. given "pro Robis serviencium,"


vs. vd. given for the expenses of the serjeants coming to consult with
the community for their affairs,


iiis. viiid. for the expenses of the servants of the Sir John
Stormyn,


iiis. iiiid. given to the clerk of John Shardelowe,


ixd. for a valet going for John de Rokele,


xiid. given for a letter sent to Ely,


vid. given for ship-passage towards the king's ships,


xd. given "pro cust' lane apud Le Tolbothe,"


lvli. given for the acquisition of the new charter and a duplicate of
the same, by the hands of Geoffrey de Mumbi and Thomas the clerk,
besides xxli. of the king's fine, and cs. for things sent to the Lord
Robert de Ufford.


Also, the following items of tribute and offerings grouped together
under "Exennie":—


lviiis. given for flesh-meats sent to Queen Isabel,


xxs. for lampreys sent to the same Queen,


viiis. xd. given for wine sent to the same Queen,


xviiid. given for wine sent to the sheriff of Cantebrigge,


iis. vid. for bread sent to the bishop,


viid. ob., for bread sent to the Lord de Multone,


xiid. ob., for bread sent to the Lord de Morele,


iis. vd. for a quarter of oats sent to the same lord,


iiiis. viiid. for two quarters of oats sent to the Lord Hugh de
Audele.


viiis. for wine sent to the same lord and also to Robert de Morele,


iis. xid. given for a quarter of oats sent to the Lord Robert de Morele
at another time,


vis. given for wine sent to the same Robert and to the Lord de
Wake,


iijs. for wine sent to the bishop,


[Page 215]
viis. viiid. given to Adam de Norwye for wine sent on the day of the
Lord's Nativity,


vs. given for Rhine wine sent to the bishop,


xxid. for bread sent to Roger de Kerdesstone and his associates,


vid. ob. for bread sent to Constantine de Mortuomari,


iis. vid. given for bread sent to the bishop,


ixs. iiijd. for wine sent to the same bishop,


ls. vid. for flesh-meats sent to the same bishop,


xxxs. for lampreys sent to the same bishop,


Also under the marginal heading "Expense Navium"—


iiiili. xs. given to Geoffrey Wreke for the freight of a ship called The
Caterine,


xxivli. vis. given to Roger Fanchild and Roger Catour, for the wages
of mariners in Lord King's service,


vs. given for oars to the said ship,


xili. given to Roger Fayrchild for his costs on either passage,


xviiid. given to Philip Wych for a message to Lincoln,


xxiiis. id. given to Henry Bataylle for ale and other expenses in the
ship of Roger de Buttele,


lviis. for xii quarters of wheat, for the expenses of mariners in two
ships for the King's use.


9–10 Edward III.—Account of Hugh Botele, Walter de Ixworth,
William de Grentham and Roger Folcard, chamberlains, &c. The
account of expenses comprising the following items,—


viiili. xis. viiid. given to John de Swerdeston and William de Secheford for their costs to parliament,


ixs. given for lampreys and sturjoun for the use of the Sheriff of
Norfolk,


vid. given "pro pulsatione libertatis,"


xd. ob. for guard kept on the arms in the Guild Hall,


vs. given for bread sent to the Lord King,


iiiili. xs. given for a pipe of Rhine wine sent to the same King,


xxd. ob., given for the making and carriage of the same pipe,


viili. vis. viiid. given for two barells of sturjoun sent to the same
King,


viili. vis. viiid. for two barells of Sturjoun sent to the Treasurer and
William de Monte Acuto.


10–11 Edward III.—Account of Simon de Veteringe, Robert Robat,
John de Wesenham, and Simon de Snoringge, chamberlains, &c. The
account of expenses comprising the following items,—


ixli. vis. viiid. given for two gerfalks bought for the use of the Lord
King,


viis. vid. given "pro jessis caprouns and turrez" to the same
gerfalke,


xxxviiis given to Andrew de Biri for keeping of same gerfalke,


xiiis. iiiid. given to Sir Edmund de Lenn for assistance in court
throughout that year,


xxiid. given for the expenses of the Justices in the Gild-Hall,


viiili. iiis. ixd. given for the expenses of Roger de Buttele, Geoffrey
Drewe, and Thomas the clerk to London to the Lord King's council,


xvs. vid. given for the cleansing of Pufflet and the other watergates,


iiiis. iiiid. given to two "currours" towards London,


iis. given to Thomas Wulsi for asserting liberty in the Steward's Hall,


iiis. viiid. given to the Clerk of the Lord King's ships,


iiiis. given to the Lord King's "heraud and trumpour,"


[Page 216]
xxs. given to Olaver Justice "del Tylbastoun" at his first coming,


xxs. given to John de Harsik and his associate,


xxs. given to Costantine de Mortuomari their associate,


xxs. given to Adam de Fincham their associate,


ixs. iiiid. given to the clerk of the same Justices,


xis. iiid. given for bread and wine sent to the same Justices for this
time,


xiis. given for gloves for the same,


iiis. iiiid. given to Robert Cokes, the clerk of the sheriff.


Also, under the marginal heading of "Expense Navium," these
items,—


xvli. xvis. id., given for wages of men in three ships in the Lord
King's service, viz., The Cog Johan vili. xis. xd., The Seintemaricog
iiiili. ixs. iiiid., The Katerine iiiili. xvis.


lxvili. xis. given for wages of men in seven ships in the King's
service, viz., The Katerine viiili. xiis., The Rose viili. viis., The Seintemaricog ixli. xvis., The Katerine, xili. xis., The Margareteixli. xvis.,
The Welifar' ixli. xvs., The Cog Johan ixli. xvis.,


xvili. given "pro armis emptis ad Galliam,"


xxxiiiis. given to Paul Underclif for arms,


xxxvs. given for the reparation of old arms.


Also, these items for the strengthening of the walls of the town and
the paving of the market-place:—


lili. iiiis. viid. given "pro clayis, gleyo, et pilis pro defenso circa
muros communitatis,


lxvs. xd. given for pavement made in the common market, by the
hands of John de Swerdeston, mayor.


11–12 Edward III.— Account of Robert de Wuttone, Simon de
Roughtone, William de Swantone, and Stephen de Kentes, chamberlains, &c.:—


The account of expenses comprising the following items,—


xiiis. iiiid. given to the keepers of the Lord King's falcoun,


iiis. given to the Lord King's servants.


vs. iid. given for passing a certain minstrel of Sir William de Monte
Acuto towards parts beyond sea,


iiiis. given to Benedict de Byri for keeping the gerfalcoun,


xls. given to Thomas de Melcheburne for his expenses to the king's
parliament at Notingham,


liiis. vd. given to the same Thomas for the same purpose for two
turns at Westminster,


xli. given to Thomas de Melcheburne, for his ship called The
Magdalene.


xxiiiis. given "pro lupis aquaticis et anguillis missis regine veteri,"


liiili. viiis. given for the expenses of ten ships, viz., The Katerine
Major, The Trinitez, The Katerine Minor, The Gracedu, The Margarete, The Blithe, The Seintemaricog, The Welifar', The Rose, and
The Magdaleyne.


ixli. xviiis. given to three ships found by the community in the
service of the Lord King, going towards Gernemuth at the feast of St.
Mark the Evangelist, viz., to John de Reppe constable of the ship called
The Katerine Major lxxviis. for the sustenance of twenty men in the
said ship for fourteen days; to Andrew Kynd constable of the ship
called The Welifar for sixteen men in the said ship for the said time
lxiiis.; and to William de Secheford constable of the ship called The
[Page 217]
Katerine Mirror, for fourteen men in the same ship, for the same time
lvis.


12–13 Edward III.—Account of John Richwys, Thomas Belleyetere, William de Santone, and Henry de Guntone, chamberlains,
&c.: The sum accounted for being ccccxiili. iiis. iid. ob. qa, and the
account of expenses comprising the following items,—


xxs. given to Richard de Castel the King's clerk, coming on the
King's business,


xs. given to John Payn the King's serjeant, being with the same
Richard,


vis. viiid. given to two esquires being with the same persons,


iis. given to their valet,


iis. vid. given to four valets of the same persons,


ixs. viiid. given to the esquires and valets of Thomas de Drayton,
Admiral at Lenn,


iis. viiid. given to a valet carrying the Mayor's letter to the Admiral
to Gipewyc,


iiiis. given to Walter Kellock and William Baunne, going with the
Mayor's letter to Hunstaunton to the masters and constables of five ships,
prepared for war in the King's service, to appear before the Mayor and
community to answer the men of Seland concerning divers things taken
from them by the mariners of the same five ships,


xxs. id. given for the expenses of Henry de Gunton and Robert
Robat going to Orwelle for furthering the business of the community
with Thomas de Drayton, Admiral,


iis. given to the minstrels of Sir Robert de Morlee,


xls. given for a falcons, given to Sir Walter de Cheshunte the Queen
Isabell's steward,


iiis. iiiid. given to a serjeant-at-mace of the Lord King.


Also, amongst the notable matters of this roll, the "Expense
Navium" and the "Expense Roberti de Morle Admirall."


13–14 Edward III.—Account of Thomas de Swerdeston, William de
Utterynge, William de Snorynge and William Erl, chamberlains, &c.:
the account of expenses comprising the following items,—


xxs. given to Sir William de Playford,


vis. viiid. given to Richard atte Rode the Lord King's Serjeant-atarms,


iiis. vid. for stones bought for making the pavement in the common
way to the "communem latrinam in Brigegate"


lxxis. paid for a falcon given to Sir Walter de Chesthunt,


iis. xid. paid "pro gentaculo" of the Sheriff of Norfolk and Sir John
de Wilton at Richard de Wotton's tavern,


xxxiiis. iiiid. delivered to Richard de Skyron for his expenses to
London upon the Lord King's arrival from parts beyond sea,


cis. ixd. given to John de Mongomeri "et familie sue et familie
domini Willelmi de Cusaunce,"


liis. iid. for the expences of the same persons,


lxs. given to Geoffrey de Bouresyard, for his assistance in reforming
the peace between the Lady the Queen and the community of the
town,


iiis. given for the carriage of wine and turbot sent to the Queen.


17–18 Edward III.—Account of Philip Wych, John de Conteshal',
Thomas de Fransham and William de Swanton, chamberlains, &c.: the
account of expenses comprising the following items,—


ixli. xviiis. xd. paid for flesh-meats sent to the Lady Isabell the
Queen,


[Page 218]
iiili. xvis. id. in offerings sent to the servants of the Lord King at
Thorndenes, at the first coming of the Lord King to Rysyng.


cs. "pro duobus salc'" sent to the King at the same time,


vis. viiid. given to John de Windesone the King's doorkeeper at the
same time,


iiis. viid. given for the charges of the Lord King's palfrey at the
same time,


iiis. given for gloves with the Lord King's falcon at the same time,


iiid. for a horse taken by Mertum messenger to Rysing, at the same
time,


xiid. given to the King's messenger, John Disarchis,


xviiid. given to the King's messenger, Thomas de Rouston,


iiid. given to a runner of the Lord King,


xiid. given to the Earl of Suffolk's minstrel,


xiid. given to the Lord de Bardolf's minstrel,


iis. vid. given to divers of the King's runners at divers times,


xxd. given to two of the King's messengers,


iiis. iiiid. given for a letter carried to Sir John de Orby.


20–21 Edward III.—Account of William Erl, Thomas Cook, Adam
de Refham and John de Denby, chamberlains &c.: the account of
expenses (in all, cccccxxviiili. xviiis. iiiid. ob.) comprising, together with
numerous gifts to messengers and minstrels of the King, the particulars
of xviili. vs. vd. spent on offerings sent to divers persons, viz., the Earl
of Lancaster, Lord le Wake, Sir John le Grey, the Sheriff of Norfolk,
the Lord le Scales, John de Thouresby, the Queen's maid, Sir John
Howard, Thomas de Branbourgh, Richard de Beketon, Sir Robert de
Causton, the Sheriff of Norfolk, the Lady Howard, John de Wesenham,
John Syward, the Bishop of Durham, Thomas de Lexham and John
Cheuelee.


25–26 Edward III.—Account of John de Chierford, Nicholas Coke,
John de Fyncham, and Stephen Fot, chamberlains, &c.:—The account
of expenses comprising the following items,—ixli. xiis. ixd. paid for a
pipe of wine and a barrel of Stourgon, sent to Lady Isabell Queen of
England, and for money given to John le Butelier and for the carriage
of same offerings to Rysingge,


iis. xid. paid for wine sent to Jon de Berneye and Roger Vyrly,
Justices,


xiis. given to John de Wyndesonere and other men of the King's
servants when the he was at Rysyngge,


27–28 Edward III.—Account of Thomas de Botelesham, John de
Bekeswell, Nicholas de Somersham and John de Ridham, chamberlains: the account of expenses (in all, clxxvili. xvs. 1d.) comprising the
following items,—


xviili. xvs. xd. expended by the hands of Nicholas de Somersham
chamberlain, for the expenses of the Mayor and other honest men of
Lenn toward Norwic, and there, and returning, and for offerings sent to
Sir William de Sharushille and his associates, and for money given to
divers men of the law for their counsel,


xxxvis. viid. given to divers of the King's messengers and runners,
and divers heralds and minstrels of the Prince, the Duke of Lancaster
and of divers other Lords,


xvid. paid for wine sent by John Bateman and Sir Simon de
Babbinglee,


vs. iiiid. paid for wine sent to Thomas de Drayton, Admiral, and
divers of the King's serjeants-at-arms,


iis. viiid. paid for wine sent to Sir . . . . de Brewes,


[Page 219]
xiid. paid for wine in the beginning of the year, when the Mayor and
honest men of Lenn went to Geywod to present the Mayor to the Bishop,


vli. xiiis. iiiid. paid "pro vno doleo vini" sent to the Lord Bishop,


iiili. iiis. iiiid. paid "pro laumpers" sent to the bishop,


vid. paid for "canevaces" in which the said "laumprois" were
carried.


28–29 Edward III.—Account of Ancelm Braunch, Thomas de Bukworth, Rogers Wyth and Robert Bryselee, chamberlains, &c.:—


The account of expenses (in all iiiixiiiixx li. xvs. viid.) comprising the
following items,—


xxviis. paid to divers messengers, runners and minstrels,


iiiis. paid for wine sent to Master Thomas de Morle and Master
Walter de Elvedon "coreccoribus domini Episcopi,"


vs. paid for wine and bread sent to Sir Robert de Morle,


iis. iid. paid for wine and "pikes" sent to Richard de Cornwalis the
King's serjeant-at-arms, when he came for the arrest of the ship,


xs. paid for wine spent on the Sheriff's bailiffs, when they came for
the Queen's gold,


iiis. vid. paid for wine sent to Sir Thomas de Ufford,


xxxiid. paid for wine sent to Sir Simon de Babbinglee,


xl. paid for wine sent to the Lord Thomas of Brymbre,


iiiili. xvis. id. ob. paid for ciiiqrs. xili. of wax sent to the Lady the
Queen,


vli. xs. paid for two barels of storjoun sent to the same Queen,


xviid. ob. paid for carriage of the said barels and wax.


xxs. paid for "ii. tartelettes," given to Peroce de . . . the said
Queen's servant.


iiiili. xiiis. iiiid., paid to Edward de Cretinge sheriff of Norfolk, for
the Queen Phelippa's gold, pertaining to her from the fines of the men
of Lenn, made before William de Sharushulle and his associates,
Justices of the King's Bench, at Norwich, for certain excesses, extortions and transgressions.


29–30 Edward III.—Account of Nicholas de Swerdestone, John de
Brunham, Edmund de Brestone and Andrew Taverner, chamberlains
&c., the account of the expenses (in all, cclxvili. xis. i ob.) comprising
the following items,—


iiis. iiiid. paid for wine, sent to Sir Robert de Morlee, junior,


xxli. sent to Phelippa Queen of England,


xli. sent to her son,


vli. vis. paid for a piece of wax sent to the said Queen,


iid. ob. paid for the carriage of the same,


liiis. iiiid. paid to William de Swanton mayor for his horse, given to
the said Queen,


xls. given to the said Queen's steward,


iiis. iiiid. given to the said Queen's messenger,


iis. given for a sword, bought and given to a certain minstrel of the
same Queen, viz. to a certain herald,


viili. xis. iiiid. paid for a piece of work and a barel of stourjoun sent
to Cicel' de Wesenham.


30–31 Edward III.—Account of Geoffrey Attetolboth, Thomas
Curzon, William de Wesenham, and John Bolla Lyste, chamberlains
&c., the account of the expenses (in all, iiiixiixx li. xixd.) comprising the
following items,—


vli. xs. paid for two barels of stourgoun sent to the Lady Isabel,
Queen of England.


[Page 220]
vili. paid for herrings sent to the same Queen,


ixs. paid for bread and "pikes" sent to Robert de Morlee,


xs. ixd. paid for wine, sent to Sir Robert de Causton, Sir John de
Drewes, Sir John de Wilton, and John de Wesenham,


viiis. paid for wine sent severally to Sir John de Camoys knt., John
de Coluill, John de Berneye and William de Dalton, the King's
Justices.


39–40 Edward III.—Account of Geoffrey de Fransham, Richard de
Henton, John de Nenteneye and Walter de Dunton, chamberlains &c.:
the account of expenses (in all clxvli. xviiis. iiid. ob.) comprising the
following items,—


iiili. vs. iiid. ob. paid for a pipe of Rhine wine and its carriage to the
bishop,


iiili. xs. paid for a pipe of wine sent to the Duke of Lancaster,


xlis. paid for herouns sent to the Duke of Lancaster,


iiiili. iiis. vid. paid for oats sent to the Duke of Lancaster.


43–44 Edward III.— Account (without the first membrane, and
otherwise imperfect) of . . . . chamberlains: the account of
expenses comprising the following payments to minstrels and runners
(cursores),—


xs. given to the king's minstrels,


iiis. iiiid. given to the minstrels of the Earl of Hereford,


xiid. given to the Earl of Warwyk's minstrels,


xxs. given to Lord Spencer's minstrels,


iiis. iiiid. given to the Earl of Oxford's minstrels,


iiis. iiiid. given to two minstrels,


xxd. given to minstrels of the King of Scotland,


vis. viiid. given to minstrels of the Earl of Suffolk,


iiiis. given to the minstrels of Lord Morlee,


iiiis. viiid. given to the Duke of Lancaster's minstrels,


xiid. given to the Earl of Suffolk's 'wafrer,'


iiis. iiiid. given to two 'gyterners' of the same earl,


xiid. given to two 'waferers,'


xxvis. viiid. given "diuersis menestrallis et cursoribus per diversas
vices."


44–45 Edward III.—Account of Henry de Cove, Roger Paxman,
Thomas de Conteshale and Edmund Belleyetere, chamberlains, &c.:
The account of expenses (in all, clxiiili. xis. iid.) comprising the
following items,—


iiiis. vid. paid for wine sent to Sir Ralph Fereres,


xxxixs. viiid. paid for wine, botores, herouns and oats sent to the
Lord Nevill, Admiral.


vis. vid. for wine and other charges upon Thomas Mortimer, the
esquire of the Lord Bishop,


iiis. iid. ob. paid for wine sent to the Lady de Morle, with similar
gifts to divers other personages,


Also, the following gifts "Menestrallis et Cursoribus,"


ixs. xd. given to seven "Waffreres" at seven times,


iiis. iiid. given to Balsham and his associates, minstrels of the Earl of
Suffolk,


iis. given to two minstrels of Sir Robert de Morle,


iis. given to two minstrels of Sir William de Hoc,


iis. given to two minstrels of Sir Walter Manne,


iis. given to the minstrels of Sir Robert Mortimer,


iis. viiid. given to four other minstrels at two times,


xxd. given "menestrallis et tripudiatoribus in Festo Natal' Dni,"


[Page 221]
iis. given to minstrels on the first day of May,


iiis. given to a player (ludenti) on the same day,


iiiis. viiid. given "tribus thitheratoribus," at three times,


iiis. iiiid. given to three minstrels, at three times,


iis. given to a "gitener" of Sir Robert de Morle,


xiid. given to a minstrel,


xxd. given to a King's messenger,


iiis. iiid. given to a messenger who brought the King's brief for
proclaiming peace between us and Flanders,


iiis. iiiid. given to the Chancellor's clerk, who brought a brief for
arresting the men of Flanders,


xxd. given to the messenger who brought briefs "ad dños terr' pro
parliamento,"


vs. given to five runners (cursoribus) of the Lord King, at five
times.


45–46 Edward III.—Account of the same four Chamberlains of the
receipt of money of the Gild of the Town of Linn, "videlicet de medietate catalli cujuslibet Gilde," granted by the community of the said
Town in the Gildhall, for making ditches and amending the defects
about the said town.


46–47 Edward III.—Account of Hugh de Elyngham, Adam Clerk,
William de Holmeton and John Kempe, chamberlains:—The account
of expenses comprising the following items,—


cxiis. paid for a piece of wax weighing ciiiqrs. xiiilb. sent to the
bishop of Norwyc,


iiiili. xs. paid for a pipe of red wine sent to the same bishop,


ixs. vid. paid for eight flagons of wine sent to Sir Robert Howard
at the time of the agreement made between the Community and James
de Marham,


viis. iiiid. paid for eight flagons of wine, white and red, sent to the
Lord Duke of Brittany,


xvid. paid for wine and spices, spent on Geoffrey de Folcham the Duke
of Lancaster's steward,


xviiid. spent in sweet and red wine on Edmund Gurney,


xd. ob. spent in wine on the Steward of Lenn in the presence of the
Mayor,


viiid. in wine spent on the same Steward and Edmund Gurney,


viid. for one potel (uno potello) spent on Brundale,


vid. "in uno potell' vini" spent on Thomas de Fakenham, the King's
serjeant-at-arms.


Also, a great number of particulars of the expenditure of cclviiili.
xis. vid. on the barge.


47–48 Edward III.—Account of John Blower, John Tatleshale,
Thomas Drewe and Robert Kent, chamberlains &c.: the moneys
received amounting to ccxlixli. vs. 1d. ob. The account of expenses, besides the ordinary disbursements and such gifts and offerings
as are noticed in the previous accounts, gives particulars of expenditure
"pro libertate manutenenda ac compoto vini dulcis," "de preparatu unius
navis supra mare ex mandato Regis," and of further cost of the barge,
amounting to xlvili. xvs. iiiid.


48–49 Edward III.—Account of Roger Paxman, John Waryn, Walter
Dunton and Ralph Colkirke, chamberlains &c.: the moneys received
amounting to ccxxxiiili. viis. vd. qa., while the account of expenses
comprises the following particulars of charges, arising from a meeting of
persons banded together against the peace,


[Page 222]
xiid. paid to the bearer of the Mayor's letter to Edmund Gurney, for
his counsel respecting the persons imprisoned for the disturbance of
the peace,


iis. iid. paid for wine to be expended in the presence of the said
Edmund for the said cause,


vs. iiiid. paid for wine spent at another time in the presence of the
said Edmund and other chief men of the town, for the aforesaid cause,


iiis. viiid. paid at another time for wine on the same abovesaid
account,


vs. viiid. paid for wine spent before William Berhard the Lord
Prince's steward and other chief men of the town of Lenn on the day
on which the same meeting (eadem conventicula) at the Friars Carmelites
began to assemble,


vis. viiid. paid to John Olkam for his counsel on the aforesaid
occasion,


xxs. paid to Edmund Gurney for making a session [?] for delivering
the said prisoners (pro cession' faciend' ad d'cos imp'sonat' lib'and'),


iiis. iiiid. paid and given to John Sewale clerk of the Justices of the
Peace on the matter aforesaid.


50 Edward III. to 1 Richard II.—Account of Thomas Curson, John
Penteney, William Erl, John Brandon, chamberlains, &c.: the sum of
the moneys received being vcl. li. vis. iid. qa. The account of expenses gives particulars of ciiili. ixs. vid. qa. spent on the barge and its
boat; cxiiili. 1d. ob. on the costs of a certain enclosure for the defence
of the town; and Dcxvli. vs. vd. ob., under the heading "Custus causa
suggestion,' Epi' Norwic coram Concil' ppoite," a division of the
account that comprises two momentous items, viz. cccxviiili. xvs. iiid.
paid as well to the Lord King "matri sue" as to divers other persons
labouring for the community in respect to the Bishop's said cause; and
cxvili. ixs. ixd. paid for the expenses of the Mayor aldermen and other
honest burgesses, going from Lenn to London on account of a certain
suggestion, touching them and very many of the community of the
town of Lenn, laid before the King's Council by the Bishop
of Norwich, for a certain transgression done to him in the town
of Lenn; the amount of the disbursements for the year being
Dccclxxiiiili. xvs. ixd. qa— a sum exceeding the receipts of the year by
ccxxiiiili. ixs. viid. qa. Further it is represented by the accountants,
that in addition to the amount of this large deficit, the town is indebted
in xli. to the Mayor for labour; in xls. to Thomas Morton the clerk for
counsel; in xxs. to Roger Bailly, the Serjeant of the community, for
counsel; and in iiiili. to the Chamberlains. This account is followed
by a list of the creditors of the town, beginning with The Confraternity
of the Great Gild of the Holy Trinity of Lenn, to whom the Town owes
clxli.


1–2 Richard II.—Account of John de Titleshale, Henry de Betele,
John Donham and Philip With, chamberlains, &c.: the expenses,
payments and allowances of the account (in all, Dcclxxiili. xvs. viid. qa,)
opening with ccxlili. ixs. viid. paid as well to the brethren of the Gild
of the Holy Trinity as to the other creditors of the last year.


3–4 Richard II.—Account of John Kepe, Robert Kent, Robert
Pulter and Thomas Faukes, chamberlains, &c.: the sum of the payments
and allowances being ccclili. xiiiis. xd.


5–6 Richard II.—Account of Thomas de Conteshale, John Kempe,
Philip de Staunforde and John Wace, chamberlains, &c.:—the amount
of the payments and allowances being cciiili. xvs. ixd. ob. qa.


[Page 223]
8–9 Richard II.—Account of Edmund Belleyettere, John Lokk,
John de Dunham and William de Silesden, chamberlains &c.: the payments and allowances (ccciiiili. xvis. ixd.) comprising the following
items,—


lxvis. viiid. paid for a pipe of wine sent to the Bishop of Norwic', to
the priory,


xxxs. viiid. ob. paid for twenty-four lampreys sent to the same
bishop, with canefas for wrapping them in (pro eisdem involvendis),


xvid. paid for the boat of the same bishop going towards Scotland,


xxd. paid for two flagons of wine, sent to Robert Cailly,


iiiis. paid for wine, sent to Sir Thomas Percy, Admiral towards
northern parts,


xiid. paid for one flagon of Malvesy, sent to Sir John Freton,
Archdeacon of Norfolk,


xvid. paid for two flagons of wine sent to Sir William Gunthorp
one of the Barons of the King's Exchequer,


xis. vid. paid for seventeen flagons and a quarter of wine, sent to the
Bishop of Norwic "in toura sua versus Scociam,"


xd. given to two runners of the King's Exchequer,


vis. viiid. given to a certain messenger of the Bishop of Norwic,
coming from Scotland,


iiis. iiiid. paid, by the council's gift, to a certain herald of the Earl of
Northumberland,


xxd. paid, by the council's gift, to a certain messenger of the Queen
of England,


iiis. iiiid. given to certain players, playing an interlude on Corpus
Christi day.


iiis. iiiid. paid, by the Mayor's gift, to persons playing the interlude
of St. Thomas the Martyr.


12–13 Richard II.—Account of John de Wenteworthe, William de
Bircham, John Bold and Alan de Wamegey, chamberlains, &c.: the


payments and allowances (in all, ccciiiixiiiixx li. xviiis. vd. ob) comprising
the following items,—


xls. paid for a pipe of Gascon wine, sent "cuidam dominorum Prucie
ambassiate ven' in Angliam pro diversis debatis inter Pruciam et
Angliam sedandis,"


xviiis. ivd. paid for ten quarters of oats sent to the same lord,


xis. viiid. paid to the cook of the bishop of Norwich and other
servants, when the same bishop dined with our mayor, on what day
the said Lord of Prucia ought to have dined with him, but came not to
dinner because he left the town for London before dinner.


22 Richard II. to 1 Henry IV.—Account of John Wynteworth,
Thomas atte Brygg, Thomas Fawkes and . . . . . chamberlains:
receipts with the "remanet" carried over from the previous year
amounting to cccclxili. xiiis. vid. ob. qa., and the account of expenses,
&c. comprising the following items,—


xxxvs. ixd. for the expenses of Master Ralph Selby, one of the Barons
of the Exchequer in the month of January,


iiiili. in gifts to the servants of the Duke of Albemarle,


xxli. given to the same lord,


xlvis. viiid. in the expenses of the said duke,


vis. in the ferrying of the same duke over the river at two times,


xvd. ob. in wine spent for the same duke,


xxli. given to the Lord of York,


[Page 224]
xvid. in wine for the same lord,


xiiili. vis. viiid. given to the Duchess of York,


xvid. in wine for the same duchess,


xxxs. in wine and lampreys given to the same Lord of York,


lxvis. viiid. given Richard, the son of the said duke,


xxs. given to the Treasurer of the duchess of York,


vs. xd. for the ferrying of the said duchess,


xld. in wine for the same duchess,


xvis. xd. in the expenses of Robert Bockesham and Thomas Waterden
to Sestre with a letter on having speech with the Lord King,


xxvis. viiid. in the expenses of John Brandon to London on the
affairs of the town,


xls. in reward to the same John Brandon.


3–4 Henry IV. — Account of Robert de Brunham, Richard
Denby, John Marche and John Botesham, chamberlains, &c., together
with the account for the same year of the receipts and payments of
William Wintworth, Mayor of Lenn, and also the account of William
Burton, Collector of Taxes. Differing from previous rolls of the series,
in comprising a Mayor's account and a Tax-Collector's account, this roll
points also to a change in the financial arrangements of the borough, in
that each of the four chamberlains renders a separate account for the
share done by himself of the work, hitherto performed conjointly by all
four chamberlains. From the beginning of this change in the manner of
keeping the accounts, the Chamberlains' Rolls, though no less fruitful
of the evidence especially useful to the local historian, are for a considerable period far less rich in matters of general interest. The other
rolls for this reign are of the years 6–7, 9–10, 11–12, 13–14, 14–15 of
Henry IV.


1–2 Edward IV.—Accounts of Robert Pilly, Robert Kereby, Thomas
Trust and Edmund Pepir, chamberlains, &c., the expenses, &c. of the
accounts comprising the following items,—


iis. viiid. paid for two flagons of sweet wine sent to the Lady de
Scales, to Middelton,


iiiis. iiiid. paid for three flagons of red wine and one flagon of sweet
wine, sent to the Lady de Scales, to Middelton,


iis. ixd. paid for one flagon and a quart of red wine, and one flagon
of sweet wine and for bread, given to the Lord de Scales when he first
came to Lenn,


vs. iid. paid for two flagons and one potell of red wine and two
flagons of sweet wine, sent to the Lady de Scales, to the Friars Carmelites,


iiis. paid for two flagons and one quart of sweet wine, given to the
Lord de Scales in the house of Arnulph Tixonye, when the same Lord
rode to the King,


iis. iiid. ob. paid for two flagons and three pyntes of red wine, sent to
the Lord de Scales with certain fishes at another time,


xvid. paid for a flagon of sweet wine called Tire, given to the Lord
de Cromwell,


xiiiid. paid for a potell of Tire and a potell of wine called
Renysshewyn given to the wife of John Twier,


iis. paid for two flagons of red wine, spent in the house of Arnulph
Tixonye by the Mayor and the most of his brethren, being there to
see a certain play at the Feast of Corpus Christi,


iiiis. paid for four flagons of wine, given to the Lord Arundell,


xiid. paid for a flagon of red wine, given to Sir William Langestrother
knt, Master of Carbroke,


[Page 225]
viiid. paid for the hire of two horses for John Burbage, to ride to
John Fyncham, to speak with him on divers matters of business of the
community,


iiiis. iiiid. paid to the king's minstrels, by way of reward,


xiid. paid to the minstrels of the Lord de Scales,


xxd. paid to the minstrels of the Lord de Cromewell,


iiis. iiiid. paid to the minstrels of the Earl of Warwic,


iiiis. paid to the minstrels of the Duke of Norfolk,


iiiis. paid to the minstrels of the Earl of Warwic,


vs. given by way of reward to a certain serjeant-at-arms coming on a
message of the Lord King,


iiis. iiiid. given by way of reward to another of the King's messengers,
bringing a letter to the Mayor for provision of wheat,


iiis. viiid. paid for wine, spent on Sir John Howard knt., in the
presence of the Mayor and other honest men of the town,


iiiid. paid for the cleaning of the Mayor's sword,


xxs. given by way of reward to the Skinners of the town for their
labour about the procession at the Feast of Corpus Christi, this year,


iiiis. given by way of reward to the sailors of this town on the same
day,


vis. viiid. paid for one quarter and half-a-quarter of cremesyne velvett
for the mayor's sword, and for the making up of the same velvet.


5–6 Edward IV.—Accounts of John Tilly and Richard Colvile,
chamberlains &c. the account of expenses comprising the following
items,—


xxd. for five potells of red wine and xxd. for five quarts of sweet
wine, spent at Geiwode, when the Mayor assumed his charge for this
year,


viiid. for a potell of sweet wine, spent when the Mayor and divers of
his brethren went round the town, to see the tenements of the community,


iiis. paid for three potells of red wine and three potells of sweet wine,
given by the Mayor to the Lord de Scales at Middelton, at the Feast
"sante Lucie Virginis,"


iis. viiid. paid for two flagons of red wine and one flagon of sweet
wine, given by the Mayor to the Lord de Cromewell at the Bole.


On the dorse of this roll appears, the Account of William Caus,
Mayor of Lenn, for the second year of his mayoralty.


13–14 Edward IV.—Accounts of John Coke bocher, William Edwards,
Robert Waryn, and William Coke tiler, chamberlains &c.; the accounts
of expenses &c. comprising the following items,—


xxxixs. iid. paid to John Burbage, for his expenses at London on the
affairs of the community of Lenn in Hilary Term 13 Edw. IV.,


xls. paid for part of the expenses of William Nicholasson and John
Burbage on the affairs of the community in Hilary Term 14 Edw. IV.,


xxvs. paid "pro uno vase vini del Riene" given by the Mayor to
Sir Robert Wyngefeld knt.


vs. paid for the carriage of the same wine to Harley where the said
knight stays,


xvid. paid for a flagon of sweet wine, sent to the Lord Duke of Suffolk,
being in the hospice of 'The Bull.'


(B). Extracts from the Trinity Gild Rolls.


7–8 Henry IV.—Richard de Thorp one of the Scabins of the Gild
Merchant of the Holy Trinity of Bishop's Lenn, from the Feast of the
[Page 226]
Holy Trinity 7 Henry IV. to the same Feast in the following year
accounts for,


xxxs. received of John Foxe of Castellacre for one stone for tombs
sold to him,


xxxs. received of Ralph de Mydelton for one stone of a like kind sold
to him.


In the same account Thomas Ploket, another of the Scabins for the
same year, accounts for,


xxvis. viiid. received of the Rector of Fransham Magna for one stone
for tombs (pro uno lapide pro tumulis) sold to him.


In the same roll John de Thoresby, another of the Scabins for the
same year, accounts for,


xxxs. received of the Bailiff of Dodyngton for one stone for tombs
sold to him,


xxxiiis. iiiid. received of Lauren Trussbut for two stones sold to him,


xvis. viiid. received of Alan Baret for one stone sold to him,


xixs. received of William Baret for one stone sold to him,


xxs. received of a certain chaplain of Ely for one stone sold to him,


xixs. iiiid. received of Nicholas Say of Ely for one stone sold to him,


xixs. iiiid. received of John Horne of Rydon for one stone sold to him,


xxs. received of Walter Todenham for one stone sold to him.


In the same roll, Bartholomew de Cysterne, another of the four
Scabins for the same year, accounts for,


xxs. received of Robert Salusbury for one stone for tombs sold to him.


9–10 Henry V.— Account of the four Scabins of the Gild Merchant of the Holy Trinity, from the Feast of the Holy Trinity 9
Henry V. to the same Feast in the following year, wherein they account
for the following moneys received for admissions of brethren and sisters
into the Gild.


cs. received of Sir de la Ware for his entrance,


cs. received of John Jemynglond clerk, Rector of Stukey, for his
entrance,


cs. received of John Colyn clerk, vicar of Bynham, for his entrance,


cs. received of John Rudland deceased for his entrance,


cs. received of John Staunton for his entrance,


vis. viiid. received of John Wesenham junior for his entrance by right
of his patrimony,


vis. viiid. received of William Swanton for his entrance in like
manner,


cs. received of Richard Franke for his entrance,


cs. received of Adam Elsy for his entrance,


cs. received of William Cok for his entrance,


cs. received of John Coker for his entrance,


cs. received of Margaret the wife of William Hunderpound for her
entrance to the spiritual benefits of the Gild (pro ingressu suo ad
spiritualia beneficia gilde),


cs. received of Margaret Galyon for her entrance in like manner,


cs. received Agnes the wife of John Salesbury for her entrance in
like manner,


cs. received of Alice Brunger for her entrance in like manner,


cs. received of Margaret the wife of William Cok' for her entrance
in like manner,


cs. received of Alice the widow of Richard Leechour for her entrance
in like manner,


cs. received of Katherine late the wiife of Adam White for her
entrance in like manner.


[Page 227]
cs. received of Agnes widow of Hugh Crosse for her entrance in like
manner,


cs. received of Beatrice May for her entrance in like manner,


cs. received of Cristina formerly the wife of John Capenet for her
entrance in like manner,


cs. received of Joan Fleete for entrance in like manner.


Also the same Scabins, for the same year, account for the following
disbursements under the head of 'Constructio Nove Aule,'


xxxvli. xvs. iiid. spent in the wages of divers masons working on the
New Hall from the last Feast of the Holy Trinity to the same Feast at
the revolution of the year,


xxili. spent in the wages of John Turnour's workmen during the
same time.


vili. iiiis. iiiid. spent in stone "cum monyell" bought in divers parcels
for the same work,


viiili. xvs. iiiid. spent in "waltyle" bought for the same work.


xiiili. ixs. iid. spent in lime bought for the same work, in divers
parcels,


xxxviiis. spent in sand bought in divers parcels for the same work,


iiiili. xixs. viiid. in iron bought for the same work, with the making
thereof,


vili. xvis. xd. ob. spent in divers other purchases and charges, for the
repair of the same hall at divers times,


xxxiiili. vs. vd. paid to Nicholas Rollesby of Bakton in the county of
Suffolk for timber for the said hall and the building of the same hall, as
is declared more fully and evidently in the separate account of Philip
Franke.


This account is followed in the roll by a list of the debts (i.e. moneys
due) to the Gild, amounting to £1,213 18s. 7d. (one thousand two
hundred and thirteen pounds, eighteen shillings and seven pence) a list
of the articles of plate &c. belonging to the Gild, and a statement of the
Gild's stock of mill-stones and other stones.


The noteworthy list of articles of plate &c. gives these particulars,—


1. In the custody of the Alderman remains one cloth of gold (pannus
deauratus) for the funerals of the gild,


2. Also there remains in the custody of the same alderman the
Register of the Gild, with three bags with the rolls of the accounts of the
gild,


3. Also in the custody of the same Alderman one little chest with
the treasure of the Gild, of which he has the one key and the Mayor
the other,


4. Also there remains there one little chest with the muniments of
the gild, together with another chest bound with iron and having a
hanging lock,


5. Also there remains in the custody of Nicholas Chesterton the
Dean, a wand of silver for the dean's office,


6. Also there remains in the custody of William Spyre a vessel for
holy water with a wine-cup of silver, weighing fifty-three ounces
'troie,'


7. Also there remains in the custody of the same William two 'salts'
with two little covers of silver, weighing twenty-and-a-half ounces,


8. Also there remains in the custody of the same William one silvergilt chalice with a cover, weighing fifty-two ounces,


9. Also there remains in the custody of Philip Franke one chalice
with a cover of silver and enamelled (una pecia cum cooperculo
argenti et anamelat') weighing fifty-one ounces,


[Page 228]
10. Also there remains in the custody of the same Philip one chalice
with a cover, of silver and enamelled, weighing forty ounces and halfan-ounce,


11. Also there remains in the custody of the same Philip, one chalice
with cover of silver and enamelled, weighing thirty ounces and halfan-ounce,


12. Also there remains in custody a chalice with cover of silver-gilt,
weighing twenty-five ounces and half-an-ounce,


13. Also there remains in the custody of William Spyre a silver
chalice with cover, weighing eighteen ounces and half-an-ounce,
formerly belonging to J. Porter,


14. Also there remains in custody one banner of tapestry (doser)
with two pieces of tapestry for laying on benches, powdered with owls
and parrots, formerly belonging to the Dean (unum doser ii bancalibus
bubonibus et citacis pulverizatis, quondam decani),


15. Also there remains a cup with a cover of silver gilt, weighing
thirty-six ounces and half-an-ounce, in the custody of W. Waterden.


To the enquirer, who searches the list of of the several sums of money
due to the gild, and compares the list of the gild's debtors with the
lists, given in another entry of this report, of the Potentiores,
Mediocres and Inferiores of the town, the part played by the gild in the
entire community becomes manifest. Members themselves of the
gild, the principal persons of the Potentiores could use the recources of
the gild for their own necessities, and obtain from its exchequer the
aid required by their friends and adherents. Holding office amongst
the jurats they used their influence in the gild for sustaining the corporation in the career of financial extravagance that collapsed in a later
year of Henry the Fourth's reign. The great Gild Merchant was the
chief bank of the community, and so long as it maintained this position
its Alderman was the strongest man, and the chiefs of the gild were
the most potent of the Potentiores of Bishop's Lenn. Here is the list
of gild's debtors at the feast of the Holy Trinity in 10 Henry IV.,







William Style, scabin of the gild, in the gild's debt for

£119 1 10



William Spyre, scabin of the gild, " " "

£5 10 3



Philp Franke, scabin of the gild " " "

£8 11 3



William Waterden, scabin of the gild " " "

£22 1 8½



John Warner, late scabin of the gild " " "

£84 14 3



Walter Curson, late scabin of the gild " " "

£36 13 5



John Parmonter " " "

£6 17 2½



John Malpace " " "

£14 12 10



Bartholomew Systerne " " "

£5 18 1½



John Bucworth " " "

£12 15 11½



John Bolt " " "

£9 0 0



John Spicer " " "

£4 15 0



Robert Couper " " "

£1 13 4



John Woode " " "

£5 0 0



William Baret " " "

£1 13 4



William Shelton " " "

£5 0 0



Master S. Baret " " "

£2 10 0



The Sheriff of Crowmere " " "

£5 0 0



John Wyntworth " " "

£2 16 8



Richard Brandon (for his wife) " " "

£4 0 0



William Paston " " "

£1 13 3



John Maunyng " " "

£5 0 0



Thomas Brygge " " "

£8 0 0

[Page 229]


The same in the gild's debt for

£10 0 0



The same (for the debts of Thoresby,
R. Waterden, R. Systerne and
P. Franke) " " "

£15 0 0



John Jeve " " "

£1 13 4



John Spycer (for his wife) " " "

£2 10 0



John Wesenham junior " " "

£0 6 8



John Staunton " " "

£5 0 0



Richard Franke " " "

£2 15 0



John Jemynglond clerk, Rector of
Stukey " " "

£5 0 0



Adam Elsy " " "

£1 10 0



William Cok " " "

£5 0 0



John Coker " " "

£5 0 0



John Ridland " " "

£2 13 4



Richard Lecchour (for his wife) " " "

£5 0 0



John Copenot " " "

£2 10 0



Hugh Crosse " " "

£3 15 0



Joan Flete " " "

£5 0 0



Adam White (for his wife) " " "

£5 0 0



W. Style (for M. Hounderpound) " " "

£2 10 0



Margareta Galyon " " "

£5 0 0



T. Salesbury (for Agnes his mother) " " "

£2 10 0



Alice Brunger " " "

£5 0 0



W. Erle, James Fitz Nicol, J.
Wesenham and S. Festwell (by
one obligation) " " "

£30 10 0



The Mayor and chamberlains (by
one obligation, " " "

£40 0 0



John Wace, T. Waterden, J. Wyntworth and W. Hunderpound (for
the chapel of St. Nicholas) " " "

£20 0 0



T. Brygge, J. Brunham and eight
other persons for the church of
St. Margaret, by one obligation " " "

£20 0 0



The Mayor and chamberlains (by
one obligation) " " "

£10 0 0



The Community of Lenn " " "

£26 13 4



The Community of Lenn " " "

£300 0 0



The Community of Lenn (in respect
to R. Botkesham) " " "

£60 0 0



The Community of Lenn (at the
coming of King Henry IV. in the
time of E. Belleyetere the Mayor) " " "

£58 15 10



The Community of Lenn (for William
Waterden and John Curson) " " "

£8 0 0



John Durward " " "

£100 0 0



Robert Botkesham " " "

£6 11 8



T. Ploket, J. Wesenham and their
associates for lead for St. Margaret's Church " " "

£0 12 8



T. Worsted, W. Hunderpound, W.
Blakeney and R. Burgeys " " "

£25 0 0



The Executors of the will of Henry
de Elmham, from the sale of his
tenement in Damgate " " "

£1 0 0

[Page 230]


Philip Franke, scabin, in moneys
delivered to him in respect to his
office in the Gild's debt for

£30 0 0



John Systerne, scabin, in moneys
delivered to him in respect of his
office " " "

£8 10 0



John Systerne, scabin, in moneys
delivered to him from the debt of
John Malpace " " "

£2 13 4


The result of the account being that in addition to the numbered
moneys in the Treasury, the Guild has,








£ s. d.



(a.) In the above-stated divers debts

1213 18 7



(b.) In millstones of divers sizes

120 0 0



(c.) In gravestones and paving-stones

34 0 0




£1367 18 7


10 Henry V. to 1 Henry VI.—Account of John Systerne, William
Spyre, Philip Franke and William Waterden, scabins of the Gild of
the Holy Trinity, of receipts and disbursements from the Feast of the
Holy Trinity, 10 Henry, to the same Feast 1 Henry VI. The account
of Receipts comprising:—


ml ccxli. iiis. viiid. ob. of moneys due to the Gild,


xiiiili. xiiiis. iiiid., from rents of assise and income from the right of
a certain ferry,


xlixli. iiiis. ixd., from farm of houses,


xlixli. xiis. from sale of millstones,


xxiili. iis. from sale of gravestones,


viili. xixs. from cranage of merchandise,


lli. from admissions of Brethren and Sisters into the Gild: the items
under this head comprising (1) cs. from William Molle for his entrance
after death, (2) cs. from Robert Sprot for his entrance after death, (3)
cs. from Margery Kyrketon for her entrance to the spiritual benefits of
the gild after death, and (4) cs. from Margery Martyn for entrance in
her life.


And the account of disbursements comprising the following items
under the head of "Constructio nove aule,"—


xixli. iiiis. iid. for builders' wages,


vili. iiiis. viid. for stones in divers parcels and for their carriage,


xli. xis. xd. for "thactyle" and "waltyle,"


xxxiiis. iiiid. for lime,


xxis. xd. for sand and the carriage of the same,


ixli. xviis. vid. spent in anchors and other things of iron,


lvis. viiid. for waynscot,


xiiiis. xd. paid to Henry Plomer "pro fundacione gutturis,"


xli. paid to Thomas Tyler in part payment of his agreement,


xls. paid to Walter Kerver of Castelage for his labour,


ixli. iis. xd. ob. paid to Peter de Rollesby carpenter and his associates
beyond his mere agreement,


xxxvs. xid. ob. in diver costs and charges,


In all,—lxxvli. iiis. viid. ob.


16–17 Henry VI.—The Account of the Scabins of the Gild of the
Holy Trinity of Lenn, for this year comprises the following list of
jocalia, resting in the Treasury,—


(1.) Silver-gilt chalice with cover, weighing fifty-two ounces,


[Page 231]
(2.) Silver chalice with cover, adorned with the image of the
Trinity, weighing fifty-one ounces,


(3.) Silver chalice with cover with similar image, weighing fifty-four
ounces,


(4.) Silver chalice with cover, made in the shape of a bell, formerly
belonging to John Wesenham, weighing twenty-eight ounces,


(5.) Silver chalice with a cover, adorned with leopards, weighing
thirty-one ounces,


(6.) Silver chalice with cover, adorned with three angels, late the
chattel of Adam Markaunde, weighing twenty ounces,


(7.) Silver chalice with cover, late the property of Thomas Borstede
(?), weighing twenty-eight ounces, and three-quarters and half-a-quarter
of an ounce,


(8.) A new silver gilt chalice with cover, bought by John Parmenter
late Alderman, "que pecia vocatur le Standyng Kowpe," weighing
forty-eight and . . . ounces,


(9.) A black . . . with silver-gilt cover, late belonging to Margaret
Hunderpounde, weighing twenty-one ounces,


(10.) A black . . . with silver-gilt cover, late belonging to Richard
Waterden, weighing eighteen ounces,


(11.) Silver vessel for holy water, weighing thirty-five ounces,


(12.) Silver wine-cup, weighing nineteen ounces and half-an-ounce,


(13.) Two silver wine-cups with covers, weighing twenty ounces and
half-an-ounce,


(14.) Fourteen spoons, late belonging to Isabel Waterden, weighing
twelve ounces,


(15.) The silver wand for the Dean's office at the Feast of the Holy
Trinity.
















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















