Is  '■ 

rare 

Wo, 

A 


9Ba££ 


j'>ij» 


SSJr 


•'it* 


% 


v> 


'«<.'*,■■• 


1 


:«  R 


ffi 


» 


afi 


? 


£> 


-**. 


Z3- I  *  " 


J 


y 


IBRARYSHEU       ifjX, 


FFICK  OP  H.M,  PROCURATOR  GENERH. 

AND  TREASURY  SOLICITOR 
■— —  LIBS&SI  =»*=> 


CALENDAR 


OF     THE 


CLOSE    BOLLS, 


PRESERVED    IN   THE 


PUBLIC  RECORD   OFFICE. 


PREPARED     UNDER     THE      SUPERINTENDENCE     OF 

THE  DEPUTY  KEEPER  OF  THE  RECORDS. 


EDWAED  III. 

VOL.   XIV. 

A.D.    1374-1377, 

&c. 


PUBLISHBD    BY    AUTHORITY    OF   HIS    MAJESTY'S    PRINCIPAL    SECRETARY    OF    STATE 

FOR      THE      HOME      DEPARTMENT. 


LONDON: 
PUBLISHED  BY  HIS  MAJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFFICE. 

To  be  purchased,  either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 

W Y.MAN  and  SONS,  Limited,  Fetter  Lank.  B.C.,  and  54,  St.  Mary  Street,  Cardiff;  or 

II..M.  STATIONERY  OFFICE  (Scottish  Branch).  23,  Forth  Street,  Edinburgh  ;  or 

E.  PONSONBY,  Limited,   116,  Grafton  Street,  Dublin; 

or  from  the  Agencies  in  the  British  Colonics  and  Dependencies, 

the  United  States  of  America,  the  Continent  of  Europe  and  Abroad  of 

T.  FISHER  UNWIN,  London,  W.C. 


printed  by 
THE  HEREFORD  TIMES   LIMITED,   Mayi.okd  Street,  Hereford. 

1913. 


CONTEXTS 


Page 
Preface  .  .  .  .  .  .  v 

Corrigenda   .  .  .  .  .        vii 

Calendar       .  .  .  .  .  .1 

General  Index  .....     565 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

University  of  Toronto 


http://www.archive.org/details/calendarofcloser14grea 


(  v   ) 


PREFACE 


The  present  volume  forms  part  of  a  series  of  Calendars 
of  the  Close  Rolls  from  the  reign  of  Edward  I.  to  that 
of  Edward  IV.,  the  object  and  character  of  which  are 
explained  in  the  Preface  to  the  first  volume  for  the  reign  of 
Edward  II.  (a.d.  1307-1313).  It  deals  with  the  normal 
rolls  of  the  last  four  years  of  the  reign  of  Edward  III. 
and  also  with  two  Supplementary  Rolls  containing  enrol- 
ments of  writs  de  warantia  dierum  for  the  years  1341-1342 
and  1355-1357.  The  text  has  been  prepared,  with  the 
sanction  of  the  Lords  Commissioners  of  His  Majesty's 
Treasury,  by  Mr.  W.  H.  B.  Bird,  B.A.,  and  the  Index  has 
been  compiled  by  Mr.  C.  T.  Flower,  M.A.,   of  this  Office. 

H.  C.  MAXWELL  LYTE. 

Public  Record  Office, 
13  January,   1913. 


(   vii   ) 


CORRIGENDA. 


p.  416,  last  line,  for  Garraut  read  G arrant. 
p.  417,  I.  5 


» >         >>  >>  )> 


CALENDAR 

OF 

CLOSE  EOLLS 


48   EDWARD   III. 


1374.  Membrane  30. 

Jan.  26.         To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  cause  Thomas 

Westminster,  de  Berkele,  son  and  heir  of  Maurice  de  Berkele  tenant  in  chief,  to 

have  seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death  ;    as  the  said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator, 

and  the  king  lias  taken  his  homage  and  fealty. 

To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Like  order  ;   as  the 
said  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  Adam  atte  More. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  Froylle  escheator  in  Wiltesir. 

Roger  Keterych  escheator  in  Essex. 

To  William  Canyngs  mayor  of  the  town  of  Bristol  and  escheator 
therein.  Order  to  cause  the  said  Thomas  to  have  seisin  of  all  the 
lands  and  tenements  in  that  town  which  he  may  be  assured  that  the 
said  Maurice  held  at  his  death,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  after  his 
death  and  by  reason  of  his  heir's  nonage  and  so  in  the  king's  hand  ; 
as  he  has  proved  his  age  etc.  (as  above).  By  p.s.  [29991.] 

Feb.  1.  To    John    Bekct,    John    Ropere    of    Welles,    Richard    Brice    of 

tminster.  Ycvclchestre  and  William  Byngham,  collectors  in  Somerset  of  the 
tenth  and  fifteenth  lasl  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  England. 
Order  to  them  and  every  one  of  them  to  be  diligent  in  the  levying 
and  collection  of  the  said  tenth  and  fifteenth  according  to  their 
commission,  so  that  the  same  be  not  delayed  by  their  default  or 
lukewarmness  whereby  the  king  should  have  mattei  of  wrath  against 
them,  although  lately  by  letters  patenl  the  king  appointed  them  and 
Richard  Plomer  of  Taunton  with  them  to  levy  and  collect  the  same  ; 

lid  Richard  Plomer  is  too  infirm  and  aged  to  toil  in  the  li 
and   collection   thereof,   nor  has  he  lands  in   thai    county  save  one 
messuage  and  6  '  I  md  in  Taunton  of  the  bondage  of  the  bishop 

of  Winchester,   or  Bufficienl    goods  or  chattels   whereof  answer  might 
be  mad'   to  the  king  if  by  his  ('  the  en! lection  should  be  in  anvar, 

the  sheriff  has  certified  in  chancery  at  the  I  command,  where- 

the  king  hi  .<  <l  and  altogether  removed  him, 

Feb.  3.  To  John  I  titer,'  keeper  of  the  king's  bastide  in  Sussex. 

\\.  tminster.  Order  to  delivei    !••.    indenture  to  William  de   Rednesse  the  king's 

Wt.  11824.     H.T.  Ltd.     100.  OB  1 


GALENDAB    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


L374.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

clerk,  purveyor  of  victuals  for  the  town  of  Calais,  for  the  king's  works 
at  thai  town,  the  bastide  aforesaid  in  his  keeping,  with  planks,  timber 
and  all  things  thereto  pertaining.  By  K. 

Jan.  29.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  manor  of  Eltham  for  the  time  being, 
w  ■  stminster.  Older  of  the  issues  or  farm  of  that  manor  to  pay  to  John  de  Beverle 
the  king's  esquire  the  arrears  from  20  September  last  of  51.  8s.  9d.  a 
year,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year  during  his 
iife  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 
as  for  his  good  service  the  king  by  letters  patent  on  26  February  in  the 
43rd  year  of  his  reign  granted  the  said  John  15Z.  8s.  9c/.  to  be  taken 
at  the  exchequer  every  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions 
during  his  life  or  until  other  order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate  ;  and 
whereas  Kiehard  Dammory  knight  is  bound  during  his  life  to  render 
yearly  at  the  exchequer  101.  at  those  terms  for  the  manor  of  Godyngton 
with  appurtenances  in  Oxfordshire  and  Bukinghamshire,  which  manor 
after  the  said  Richard's  death  the  king  by  other  letters  patent  has 
granted  to  the  said  John  and  Amice  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  the 
said  John  rendering  at  the  exchequer  10/.  a  year  to  fee  farm  at  the 
said  terms  by  even  portions,  afterwards  on  20  September  aforesaid. 
at  the  said  John's  prayer  and  for  that  he  gave  up  in  chancery  the 
letters  patent  concerning  15/.  8.9.  9c/.  a  year  to  be  cancelled,  for  his 
said  service  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  him  for  life  in  part 
payment  of  that  sum  the  10/.  which  the  said  Richard  is  bound  yearly 
to  render  as  aforesaid,  further  granting  that  he  should  during  his  life 
have  and  take  the  remaining  51.  8s.  9c/.  of  the  manor  of  Eltham  by  the 
hands  of  the  keeper  thereof  for  the  time  being. 
Et  erat  patens. 


Fell.  4.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 

t minster,  holding  before  them  of  a  plea  between  Peter  Mildenhale  of  London 
'  sk}imere  '  and  John  de  Hilton  one  of  the  clerks  of  chancery  con- 
cerning an  alleged  debt  of  72s.,  telling  the  said  Peter  on  the  king's 
behalf  to  repair  to  chancery  there  to  sue  for  justice  if  he  shall  think 
fit,  and  releasing  any  distress  for  that  cause  made  upon  the  said  John 
or  his  surety  ;  as  the  cognisance  of  pleas  concerning  contracts  whatso- 
ever between  clerks  of  chancery  and  others  made  in  places  where 
the  chancery  shah  abide  pertains  to  the  chancellor  or  keeper  of  the 
great  seal  for  the  time  being,  and  has  hitherto  been  used  so  to  do  ; 
and  the  sheriffs  are  endeavouring  to  compel  the  said  John  to  answer 
the  said  Peter,  drawing  to  them  the  cognisance  which  pertains  to  the 
chancellor  and  to  none  other,  contrary  to  the  said  custom  which  by 
common  counsel  of  the  realm  was  lately  in  a  parliament  holden  at 
Westminster  confirmed  by  the  king  and  granted  to  endure  for  ever  ; 
and  the  king  would  not  that  the  said  clerks  be  otherwise  treated  than 
in  times  past. 

Feb.  6.  To  William  Aubrey.     Order  to  give  diligence  to  pursue,  arrest  and 

i  minster,  take  John  Lukes  servant  of  Thomas  Serland  wherever  found  within 
the  realm,  and  when  taken  forthwith  to  bring  him  before  the  king 
and  council  to  answer  touching  certain  things  which  shall  be  laid 
before  him  on  the  king's  behalf,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what 
shall  then  be  appointed  by  the  council ;    and  command  to  singular 


48   EDWARD  III. 


1374. 


Membrane  30 — cont. 

the  king's  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  lieges  within  liberties 
and  without  whenever  warned  to  be  aiding  the  said  William  in  the 
execution  of  the  premises.  By  C. 


Feb. 


To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  deliver  to  Thomas 
Westminster,  son  of  John  Odyn  of  Great  Wakeryng  96  acres  of  land  and  wood  in  the 
town  of  Estwode  and  2(i  acres  of  land  in  Little  Shobury  held  by  knight 

Bervice  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Rcylegh  by  Joan  daughter  of 
John  Clerk  of  Rothyng.  and  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Thomas,  saving  to  the  king 
the  issues  thereof  taken  since  her  death  also  the  marriage. of  the  said 
Thomas  if  it  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king,  but  to  remove  the  king's 
hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  divers  other  lands  held  by  the 
said  Joan  of  others  than  the  king,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  at  her  death  the  said  Joan  held  the  premises  in  Estwode  and 
Shobury  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  that  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  her 
heir  William  Hynton  late  under  bailiff  of  the  said  honour  occupied 
the  same  taking  the  issues  and  profits  thereof  from  14  November 
in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign,  on  which  day  the  said  Joan  died,  to 
14  November  in  the  41st  year,  John  Wyot  under  bailiff  after  him 
from  the  day  last  mentioned  to  14  November  in  the  46th  year,  and 
Robert  Broun  now  under  bailiff  since  that  day,  that  the  said  Joan 
held  divers  other  lands  by  divers  services  of  others  than  the 
king,  and  that  the  said  Thomas  son  of  John  is  her  cousin  and  next 
heir,  and  is  now  of  full  age  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage 
and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30007.] 

Feb.  8.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Adam  de  Rotherfeld,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Like  orders  to  the  same  sheriff  for  removal  of  William  de  Lakkenby 
and  Robert  Passalewe,  and  election  of  other  coroners  in  their  stead. 

Feb.  6.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Dorset  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  Stoke,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  10.  To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Herefordshire.     Order  to  cause  John 

minster,  de  Hereford  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage,  and  Thomas  Chaindos  knight 
of  a  toft  and  3  acres  of  land  in  Mordeford  and  Fowehope  held  by 
John  Smyth  of  Mordeford  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  premises 
have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day.  that  John  Smyth  held  the 
said  messuage  of  John  de  Hereford,  and  the  toft  and  land  of  the  said 
Thomas,  and  that  .John  de  llurteslev  late  escheator  had  the  year  and 
a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the 
same. 

Feb.  -2'.',.         To  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  king's  fleet  westward,  or  to 
h.-    lieutenant.     Onler    for   particular  causes   moving  the   king  and 

Council,   to  Cause   the   ships,   goods  and   merchandise   of   merchants  of 

Portugal  whatsoever  within  Ins  admiralty  to  be  arrested  and  sale  kept 
under  arrest  until  further  order.  an\  other  command  to  the  admiral 
or  lieutenant  previously  addressed  notwithstanding,  although  lately 
by  writ  the  king  commanded  them  to  cause  particular  ships,  goods 


CALENDAR    OF  CLOSK    ItoLLS. 


]  :;7  |  .1/.  ml i ni in   30—cont. 

and  merchandise  of  merchants  of  Portugal  which  were  under  arrest 
to  be  delivered  to  the  merchants.  By  K.  and  C. 

Membrane  29. 

Feb.  1.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  justices  appointed 

tminster.  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  to  cause  Joan  daughter  and 
heir  of  -John  de  Wantvng  to  conic  before  them,  to  cause  her  to  be 
examined,  and  if  assured  that  she  is  an  idiot,  as  formerly  she  seemed 
to  the  council  to  be,  order  to  take  information  touching  the  transcripts 
of  the  feet  of  certain  fines  levied  in  the  king's  court  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  between  John  de  Estbury,  Katherine  his  wife  and  Thomas 
their  sou  plaintiffs  and  the  said  Joan  by  name  of  Joan  Wantyng 
deforciant  concerning  two  messuages,  two  carucates  of  land,  5  acres 
of  meadow.  20  acres  of  wood  and  40s.  of  rent  in  Wynterborne  Ford 
and  Mymbury,  and  between  the  said  John  plaintiff  and  the  said  Joan 
(by  the  same  name)  deforciant  concerning  seven  messuages,  two 
carucates  and  three  virgates  of  land,  5  acres  of  meadow,  60  acres  of 
pasl  ure.  60  acres  of  wood  and  100s.  of  rent  in  Estbury  and  Bokhampton, 
which  transcripts  the  king  is  sending  under  his  seal,  to  call  before 
them  those  whom  they  shall  think  fit,  and  further  to  do  what  by  the 
law  and  custom  of  England  ought  to  be  done  for  annulling  the  same  ; 
as  lately  upon  information  received  that  the  said  Joan  was  an  idiot 
from  birth,  and  by  fines  so  levied  and  otherwise  aliened  divers  lands 
of  her  heritage,  the  king  caused  her  to  come  before  the  council  to  be 
examined  touching  her  idiocy,  and  being  examined  it  seemed  to  the 
council  that  she  is  an  idiot  and  thereby  may  not  have  governance  of 
herself ;  and  the  king  is  aware  that,  if  by  due  process  she  shall  be 
adjudged  an  idiot,  alienations  by  her  made  will  be  of  no  worth,  that 
the  wardship  of  the  lands  of  her  heritage  pertains  to  the  king  during 
her  life,  and  that  after  her  death  the  king  is  bound  to  restore  the 
same  wholly  to  her  heir  ;  and  it  is  his  will  to  make  provision  against 
the  hurt  and  loss  that  may  happen  to  him  and  to  the  said  heir  by 
colour  of  such  alienations. 

To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Herefordshire.  Order  to  cause  John 
de  Hereford  and  Thomas  Chaundos  knight  to  have  seisin  etc.  (as 
above,  p.  3  ;  but  the  late  escheator  is  here  written  John  de  Hurteshey, 
and  the  late  tenant  John  Smith). 

Feb.  15.  To  Nicholas  Seymor  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order  to 
Westminster,  deliver  to  John  Hamelyn  a  manor  at  Burton  sometime  of  Nicholas 
Plesy,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  wife  of  the  said 
John,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  to  hold  by  the  courtesy  of 
England  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  the  said  manor  in 
chief  by  knight  service  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  that  the  same 
ought  to  pertain  to  the  said  John  for  life  by  the  courtesy  by  reason 
of  issue  between  them  begotten  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage 
and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30022.] 

To  Nicholas  Heryng  escheator  in  Surrey.  Like  order,  mutatis 
mutandis,  to  deliver  to  the  said  John  20  acres  of  land,  10  acres  of 
pasture,  6  acres  of  wood,  40  acres  of  heath  and  20s.  of  rent  of  assize 
in  Hedele,  held  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of 
Boulogne.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 


48   EDWARD   ITT. 


1:^74.  Membrane  2!) — cont. 

Feb.  16.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 
Westminster.  Galtres  to  be  elected  instead  of  Richard  Bernard,  who   is   too   infirm 
to  exercise  that  office. 

Feb.  16.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Robert    Passelewe,   who  is  occupied   with  divers   business  of  the 
king  so  that  he  has  not  leisure  to  exercise  that  office. 

Feb.  10.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead   of  John  Lough,   who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  10.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  governor  and  guardian  of  Ireland,  the 
i .  king's  lieutenant  or  guardian  of  Ireland,  or  to  the  justiciary  of  Ireland 
for  the  time  being,  and  to  their  representatives.  Order  of  the  issues 
and  profits  of  Ireland  to  pay  from  time  to  time  to  Stephen  bishop  of 
Meath  wages  and  fees  for  himself,  the  men  at  arms,  hobblers.  archers, 
horsemen  and  footmen  which  he  shall  keep  for  furtherance  and 
maintenance  of  the  wars  and  restoration  of  peace  in  Ireland  according 
to  the  advice  of  the  governor  and  council  there  for  the  time  being 
and  as  need  requires,  while  the  said  bishop  shall  stand  at  the  king's 
wars  or  on  the  king's  service  without  his  own  lordship  or  lands,  ordering 
such  and  so  many  writs  as  need  be  to  be  made  for  payment  and 
allowance  thereof.  By  K.  and  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Feeder  a.] 

Feb.  10.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Cork  in  Ireland  for   the 

Westminster,  time  being.  Writ  de  intendendo,  directing  them  of  the  farm  of  the  said 
city  to  pay  by  indenture  20  marks  a  year  to  Stephen  bishop  of  Meath  so 
long  as  he  takes  of  the  king  100  marks  a  year  which  the  king  has  granted 
him  during  pleasure  ;  as  in  reliance  upon  the  said  bishop's  fealty  and 
prudence  the  king  has  thought  fit  to  retain  him  specially  upon  the 
council  in  Ireland,  and  by  virtue  thereof  has  granted  him  by  letters 
patent  100  marks  yearly  during  pleasure,  namely  -40/.  of  the  farm 
of  the  city  of  Dublin  and  20  marks  of  the  farm  of  the  city  of  Cork, 
willing  that  the  20  marks  remaining  shall  be  deducted  and  allowed 
him  in  his  own  hands  at  the  exchequer  of  Ireland  of  the  manor  of 
Cromelyn,  which  manor  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  committed 
to  him  for  the  extent  to  be  thereof  made  and  yearly  rendered  at  the 
said  exchequer. 
Et  erat  paten  . 
[Ibid.) 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the;  city  of  Dublin  for  the  time  being. 
Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  pay  the  said  bishop  40/.  a  year  of  the 
farm  of  that  city. 

[Ibid.] 

March  12.        <  ):der  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  can  e  oner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  de  Thorp,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

March  14.       Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  Robert    Berdesfeld,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


j;;y  )  .1/^  mbrane  29—  cont. 

April  20.         To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  remove  the 

r.  king's    hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Halse, 

delivering  to  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in 

England  any  issues  thereof  taken;    as   lately  the  king  ordered  the 

cheator  to  certify  in  chancery  under  his  seal  the  cause  wherefore 

he  took  the  prior's  said  manor  into  the  king's  hand,  and  the  yearly 

value   thereof,  and  he  certified   that  it  was   before  him  found,  by 

inquisition  taken  of  his  office,  that  Roger  Arundell  sometime  lord  of 

Halse  gave  the  said  manor  to  the  prior  of  the  said  Hospital  and  to 

his   successors,    so    that    they   should    maintain    a   chapel   in    Halse 

and  find  one  chaplain  there  to  celebrate  divine  service  for  ever  for 

the  souls  of  the  said  Roger  and  his  forefathers  and  of  the  faithful 

departed,  and  that  the  said  chantry  is  withdrawn  for  12  years  past,  and 

for  that  cause  he  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand  ;    and  the  king 

reckons  the  cause  insufficient. 

May  4.  To   William   de   la   Vale   escheator   in    Cumberland.     Like    order, 

Westminster,  mutatis  mutandis,  concerning  a  close  of  the  abbot  of  Holmcoltran 
called  YVarnhill  ;  as  for  particular  causes  the  king  lately  commanded 
the  escheator  to  certify  etc.,  and  he  returned  that  the  abbot  has  made 
a  purpresture  upon  the  king  at  Warnhill  in  the  forest  of  Ingelwode 
of  a  third  part  of  Warnhill  Close,  and  long  time  has  occupied  and 
does  yet  occupy  the  same,  and  that  for  that  cause  the  said  purpresture 
is  in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  on  20  May  in  the  5th  year  of  his  reign 
the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  licence  to  John  de  Halteclo  to  give 
to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  and  to  their  successors  20  acres  of 
waste  in  the  said  forest,  which  are  the  third  part  of  the  said  close, 
and  60  acres  of  forest  formerly  granted  by  the  king  to  the  said  John 
to  assart  and  bring  into  tillage  to  hold  the  premises  of  the  king 
and  his  heirs  for  20s.  yearly  to  be  rendered  at  the  exchequer  ;  and 
the  king  has  thought  fit  to  remove  his  hand,  reckoning  the  cause 
aforesaid  insufficient. 

To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Like  order, 
mutatis  mutandis,  concerning  the  grange  or  manor  of  Hildekirk  of 
the  abbot  of  Holmcoltran  ;  as  for  particular  causes  the  king  lately 
ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  etc.  ;  and  he  certified  that  he  found 
by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  Thomas  de  Lascels 
lately  granted  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  and  to  their  successors 
divers  tenements  in  Bolton  in  Allerdale  called  Hildekirk  Grange  to 
find  one  chaplain  to  celebrate  for  ever  in  Hildkirk  chapel,  that  no 
chaplain  there  celebrates  nor  has  done  for  ten  years,  and  that  the 
said  chantry  is  altogether  withdrawn  and  brought  to  nought,  and 
for  that  cause  he  took  the  premises  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  the 
king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 

Membrane  28. 

Feb.  8.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be    elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Nicholas  Payn  ;    as  the  king  is  informed  that  by  colour 

of  his  office  he  has  made  and  ceases  not  daily  to  make  divers  extortions 

contained  in  a  bill  herewith  enclosed,  to  the  oppression  of  the  people. 

Feb.  10.  To   the   sheriff  of   Essex   and   the   constables  of   the   hundreds  of 

Westminster.  Barstaple,   Rocheford  and  Dansay.     Order  under  pain  of  forfeiture 


48   EDWARD    III. 


1374.  Mi  mbt  -  — cunt. 

to  leave  over  all  else  and  ceasing  every  excuse  to  cause  70  seamen 
of  the  best  and  strongest  of  those  hundreds  to  be  arrested  without 
delay,  being  the  arrears  of  120  seamen  whom  the  king  formerly  com- 
manded them  to  arrest,  causing  them  to  be  delivered  to  John  Whitloke 
master  of  the  king's  barge  called  the  ■  Thomas  '  or  to  his  deputies, 
and  to  come  to  Sandwich,  so  as  to  be  there  with  all  possible  speed  to 
>ail  on  the  king's  service  at  sea  at  his  wages. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Jan.  28.         To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Henry  de  Sydenhale,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  1.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to   be 

Westminster,  elected  instead  of  John  del  Strother,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  3.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 

Westminster,  elected  instead  of  John  de  Walyngton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  1.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 

Westminster,  elected    instead    of    Thomas    de    Eslyngton,    who    is    insufficiently 
qualified. 

Feb.  3.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 

Westminster,  elected  instead  of  John  Laweson,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Jan.  31.  To  the  governor  and  chancellor  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being,  or 
Westminster,  to  their  representatives.  Order  to  cause  Philip  brother  and  heir  of 
John  son  and  heir  of  John  Darcy  of  Knayth  tenant  in  chief  to  have 
seisin  of  all  lands  in  Ireland  which  by  inquisition  they  may  be  assured 
that  his  said  father  at  his  death  held  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and 
which  by  his  death  came  to  the  king's  hands  and  are  in  his  hand  ; 
as  on  24  January  last,  the  age  of  the  said  Philip  being  proved,  the  king 
took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Philip  due  for  all  his  said 
father's  lands,  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  John  his  son  and  heir,  who  died  within  age  and  in 
the  king's  wardship,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  the  said  Philip 
of  the  lands  in  England  of  his  heritage,  as  appears  by  inspection  of  the 
rolls  of  chancery.  By  p.s. 

Jan.  31.  To  the  sheriff  of  Notyngham  for  the  time  being.     Writ  de  intendendo, 

W*  minister,  directing  him  of  the  issues  of  the  county  to  pay  to  Philip  brother 
and  heir  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Darcy  of  Knayth  tenant  in  chief 
39  marks  10s.  a  year  during  the  life  of  Mary  countess  of  Pembroke; 
as  on  18  February  in  the  18th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  lett< 
patent  granted  "to  John  Darcy  the  father  and  to  his  heirs  183/.  6a.  8d., 
namely  !)0/.  16s.  Sd.  to  be  taken  of  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Newcastle 
upon  Tyne,  66/.  of  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Scardeburgh  by  the  hands 
of  the  respective  bailiffs,  and  :>!)  marks  10s.  of  the  issues  of  the  said 
county  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  for  the  time  being,  during  the  life 
of  the  said  countess  who  holds  for  life  certain  lands  the  reversion 
whereof  the  king  has  granted  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs  ;  and 
after  on  24  January  last,  the  age  of  the  said  Philip  being  proved,  the 
king  took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given 
him  etc.  By  p.B, 

El  erat  patens. 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  :>,7  J  Mi  mbrane  28—  cord. 

Like  order  to  the  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgh  for  the  time  being  for 
ment  of  66Z.  a  year  of  the  faun  of  that  town  during  the  life  of  the 
said  countess. 

Like  order  to  the  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  for  the  time  being 
tor  payment  of  !»(»/.  16s.  8f/.  a  year. 

Feb.  2.  To   John    de    Broghton   escheator   in   Bukinghamshire.     Order   to 

Westminster,  cause  John  .Mauntel,  son  and  heir  of  Walter  Mauntel  tenant  in   chief, 

to  have  .seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 

hi<  death  ;    as   the   said  John  has  proved  his  age   before  Nicholas 

viiimir   escheator  in  Norhamptonshire,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 

homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30002.] 

To  the  same.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  give  seisin  to  John 
de  Lynford,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Lynford  of  Shrington  tenant 
in  chief  ;  as  he  proved  his  age  before  Thomas  de  Sewall  late  escheator 
in  Bukinghamshire.  By  p.s.  [30001.] 

Feb.  4.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Great  Jernemuth  for  the  time  being.     Order  of 

u .  fcminster.  the  farm  of  that  town  to  pay  to  John  Fastolf  the  king's  esquire  the 
arrears  since  28  January  last  of  20£.  a  year,  and  henceforward  to  pay 
him  that  sum  every  year  for  life,  taking  his  acquittance  for  every 
payment ;  as  on  the  aforesaid  day  the  king  of  his  favour  granted 
by  letters  patent  to  the  said  John  for  his  good  service  20Z.  a  year  to 
be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  farm  of 
the  said  town  by  the  hands  of  the  bailiffs  for  the  time  being  during 
his  life  or  until  other  order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  27. 

Feb.  20.  To  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  king's  fleet  towards  the 

Westminster,  west,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  summon  before  him  John 
Polymond  merchant  of  Suthampton  and  others  who  ought  to  be 
summoned  in  that  behalf  and,  if  assured  that  divers  his  merchandise 
to  the  value  of  200  marks  be  arrested  by  reason  of  enmity  and  not 
of  any  trespass  or  crime  committed  in  the  realm  of  Portugal  by 
Walter  Cokkesden  his  yeoman,  to  arrest  merchandise  of  merchants 
of  Portugal  which  is  in  the  port  of  Suthampton  in  a  ship  called  '  la 
Corps  Stint,'  John  Geraldes  master,  to  the  value  of  his  merchandise 
aforesaid,  as  they  will  answer  it  to  the  king  and  council,  keeping  the 
same  under  arrest  until  the  king  shall  be  better  certified  touching  the 
manner  and  cause  of  the  arrest  made  in  Portugal  as  aforesaid,  or 
until  further  order,  and  so  behaving  therein  that  the  alliance  between 
the  king  and  the  king  of  Portugal  be  not  infringed  ;  as  by  plaint  and 
certificate  of  the  said  John  Polymond  the  king  has  learned  that  the 
said  Walter  long  time  abode  in  Portugal  with  divers  merchandise 
of  John  Polj-mond  to  the  value  aforesaid,  that  the  same  is  now  taken 
into  the  hands  of  the  king  of  Portugal,  and  that  the  said  Walter  has 
fled  in  fear  of  his  life,  so  that  the  said  merchandise  is  in  peril  of  loss, 
praying  that  the  king  would  cause  him  to  recover  the  value  thereof 
from  the  merchandise  which  is  in  the  said  ship  ;  and  it  is  the  king's 
will  that  justice  be  done  to  the  said  John  Polymond. 

Feb.  14.         To  William  Strete  the  king's  butler.     Order  of  the  king's  wines 
minster,  to  cause  livery  to  be  given  to  John  Knyvet  the  chancellor   of    the 


is    EDWARD    III. 


9 


L374. 


Membrane  27 — cont. 


arrears  from  5  July  in  the  -40th  year  of  the  reign,  on  which  day  the 
king  appointed  him  chancellor,  of  his  fee  of  wine  which  he  takes  of 
the  king  for  the  expenses  of  the  inn  of  chancery,  and  of  his  said  fee 
henceforward  so  long  as  he  shall  stand  in  that  office. 

Feb.  20.  To  Maurice  Berd  and  William  Gill  the  king's  searchers  in  the  port 

Westminster,  of  Plymouth.  Order  not  to  trouble  or  grieve  Napoleon  Lomelynus 
in  aught  contrary  to  the  king's  letters  of  protection,  dearresting  and 
delivering  to  him  or  his  attorneys  any  goods  or  merchandise  of  his 
by  the  said  searchers  arrested  contrary  thereto,  provided  there  be  no 
enemies'  goods  among  the  same,  and  suffering  them  to  go  their  way  ; 
as  on  28  October  in  the  46th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent 
took  under  his  protection  for  three  years  the  said  Napoleon,  his  men 
and  servants  and  his  goods  and  merchandise  wheresoever  found  on 
land  or  sea  within  the  king's  dominion  and  power  or  his  subjects, 
whatsoever,  forbidding  all  and  singular  his  subjects  to  inflict  or  suffer 
any  wrong,  trouble,  hurt,  violence,  hindrance  or  grievance  to  be 
inflicted  upon  them  in  their  persons,  goods,  property  or  merchandise  ; 
and  now  on  the  said  Napoleon's  behalf  the  king  has  learned  that 
contrary  to  his  said  protection  the  said  searchers  have  arrested  and 
taken  out  of  his  ships  divers  his  goods  and  merchandise  brought  by 
his  servants  to  that  port ;  and  the  king  would  not  that  wrong  be  done 
him.  Proviso  that  the  custom  and  subsidy  due  upon  any  of  the 
said  merchandise  there  exposed  for  sale  shall  be  truly  paid. 

Jan.  26.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  chief  justice.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of 

Westminster.  Adam  de  Wykemere  clerk  presented  in  the  parliament  assembled 
at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Edmund  the  King  last,  to  cause 
the  record  and  process  of  his  suit  for  trespass  against  the  prior  of 
Itynham,  Thomas  the  subprior  and  others  to  be  sent  again  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  on  the  king's  behalf,  telling  William  de  Fyneheden 
chief  justice  of  that  Bench  to  cause  the  same  to  be  amended  according 
to  the  resolution  of  the  said  parliament  ;  as  his  petition  shewed  that 
he  so  far  prosecuted  his  suit  that  by  inquisition  on  his  behalf  the 
truth  thereof  was  debated,  and  that  now  the  said  prior  is  suing 
effectually  before  the  king  by  writ  of  error  to  annul  the  judgment 
rendered  thereupon  for  that,  by  fault  of  the  writer  only,  the  word 
'  concanonicus  '  is  written  in  the  process  where  in  the  original  writ  was 
'  comonachus  ?  and  in  another  place  '  Ralph  '  for  '  Robert,'  although  in 
all  other  respects  the  said  process  is  duly  and  lawfully  made,  praying 
that  by  advice  of  the  council  the  same  be  amended  in  regard  to  the 
writer's  negligence  ;  and  in  the  said  parliament  it  was  resolved  that 
the  record  and  process  should  be  sent  again  before  the  said  justices, 
order  being  by  the  lords  and  nobles  thereof  given  to  the  said  John 
to  send  the  same  to  them,  and  order  likewise  to  the  said  William, 
being  then-  present,  to  cause  amendment  to  be  therein  made  according 
to  the  truth  of  the  matter.  By  pet.  of  pari.  [Anc.  Pet.  10288.] 

[Bolls  of  Parliament,  ii.  p.  461.] 

.March  6.  To  the  major  and   bailiffs  <«t'  the  city  of  Dublin  in  Ireland.      Writ 

W<  i mm  ter.  of  aid   directing  them  to  cause  proclamat  ion  to  lie  made  on  the  king's 

behalf  that  his  lieges  of  that  city  shall  pay  without  delay  to  William 

de  Wyndesore,  now  governor  and  guardian  of  Inland,  the  arrears  1 1 « > t 

yet  levied  of  the  portions  falling  upon  them  of  a  sum  of  3,000/.  laid 


l0  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


\;\~  \  Membrane  27 — cont. 

upon  the  people  there  at  a  parliament  holden  at  Kilkenny  by  the 
said  William  when  he  was  the  king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland,  and  a  sum 
of  2,0002.  likewise  laid  upon  them  at  a  parliament  holden  at  Balidoylc, 
and  themselves  to  be  aiding  the  said  William  and  his  deputies  in 
levying  and  collecting  the  same,  although  lately  at  the  suit  of  certain 
his  lieges  of  Ireland,  averring  that  the  said  William  while  lieutenant 
laid  the  impositions  aforesaid  upon  the  people  there,  the  king  by  writ 
commanded  him  to  stay  the  levy  thereof ;  as  on  20  September  last  b}' 
advice  of  the  council  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  that  all  arrears 
not  yet  levied  of  the  total  sum  of  5,0001.  should  be  levied  and  paid  to  the 
said  William,  now  governor  etc.,  by  letters  patent  and  writs  giving  him 
powei  to  cause  the  same  to  be  levied  and  collected  the  said  writ  of 
supersedeas  notwithstanding,  for  that  the  king  was  informed  of  a  surety 
by  nobles  and  other  credible  persons  of  Ireland  that  the  same  was 
granted  by  the  lords,  nobles  and  commons  of  Ireland  at  the  said 
parliament  of  their  own  free  will  in  aid  of  the  expenses  of  the  war, 
and  was  not  demanded  by  way  of  impost.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.     Rolls  of  Parliament,  ii.  p.  462.] 

The  like  to  the  following  : 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  the  steward  of  the  town  of  Droghda. 
The  sheriff  of  Meath  as  well  of  the  liberty  as  of  the  crose  (crocy), 

and  the  steward  of  the  said  liberty. 
The  sheriffs  of  Uriel  and  Kildare. 

[Ibid.] 

March  10.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Wynchelse,  and  to  the  collectors  in  that 
Westminster,  port  of  the  subsidy  of  25.  upon  every  cask  of  wine  and  Gd.  in  the  pound 
last  granted  to  the  king  by  the  merchants  of  England.  Order  to 
dearrest  a  ship  called  '  la.  Seinte  Mariecogge,'  William  Deschales  master, 
with  all  its  gear  and  all  wines,  goods  and  merchandise  therein  taken, 
restoring  to  the  merchants  any  which  are  in  the  hands  of  any  man 
out  of  the  said  ship,  and  suffering  the  master,  merchants  and  seamen 
without  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  freely  to  pass  with  the  same 
to  Flanders,  provided  that  if  any  of  the  said  goods  shall  be  there 
exposed  for  sale  the  custom,  subsidies  and  duties  upon  them  shall  be 
paid  to  the  king's  use  ;  as  the  said  ship  on  its  voyage  towards  Flanders 
with  divers  wines  and  other  goods  and  merchandise  of  divers  merchants 
of  Flanders  was  taken  at  sea  off  the  coast  of  Romeney  and  brought 
to  the  said  port  by  men  of  the  king's  barge,  pretending  that  those 
were  enemies'  goods,  and  is  there  detained  under  arrest  ;  and  by 
charters  and  letters  as  well  of  the  count  of  Flanders  as  of  divers  towns 
and  boroughs  of  Flanders  sealed  with  their  seals,  which  are  shewn 
before  the  king  and  council,  it  seems  to  the  council  that  the  same 
ought  to  be  restored  to  the  said  merchants  according  to  the  peace  and 
concord  made  between  the  king  and  the  said  count. 

Feb.  14.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  la  Rye  and  the  collectors  of  customs 
Westminster,  in  that  port.  Order  to  suffer  Richard  Lyouns  citizen  of  London 
without  let  [by]  himself  or  his  servants  in  that  port  to  lade  in  ships 
200  quarters  of  oats  and,  after  payment  of  the  customs,  subsidies 
and  duties  thereupon,  to  carry  and  bring  the  same  to  the  city  of 
Bourdeaux,  any  proclamations  or  ordinances  to  the  contrary  not- 
withstanding ;  as  the  king  has  given  him  licence  so  to  do,  to  make 
his  advantage  thereof. 


48    EDWARD    III. 


11 


1374. 


Membrane  27 — cont. 


March  18.  To  William  de  Ergum  late  escheatoi  in  Cumberland.  Order  to 
Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  church 
of  Wygton  and  the  fruits  and  profits  thereof,  delivering  without  delay 
to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Holmcoltram  any  issues  and  profits 
thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in 
chancery  under  his  seal  touching  the  annual  value  of  the  said  fruits 
and  profits,  desiring  to  know  the  cause  wherefore  the  escheator  took 
the  same  into  his  hand,  and  he  certified  that  he  found  by  inquisition, 
before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  without  the  king's  licence  parcel 
of  the  said  church  is  crenellated  for  defence,  that  the  church  pertains 
to  the  said  abbot  and  convent,  and  that  with  the  fruits  thereof  it  is 
worth  100  marks  a  year,  and  for  that  cause  the  church  and  fruits  are 
in  the  king's  hand  ;    and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to   William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in 
Cumberland. 

March  20.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Great  Jernemuth.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  Walter  Broun  of  Norwich,  to  suffer  him  without  let  to  lade  14  tuns  of 
white  wine  of  Spain  in  ships  in  that  port  and,  after  payment  of  customs, 
subsides  and  duties  thereupon,  to  take  the  same  to  Prucia,  any  com- 
mand to  the  bailiffs  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  because  of  its  weakness  and 
age  the  said  wine,  which  he  has  in  that  port,  may  not  advantageously 
be  sold  in  England,  praying  licence  to  bring  it  to  Prucia  to  make  his 
advantage  thereof. 

March  21.        Reynold  Loue  merchant  of  London  has  the  like  writ,  with  licence 
Westminster,  to  lade  in  the  port  of  London  and  bring  to  Estland  50  tuns  of  wine  of 
Spain  and  Portugal. 

March  23.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriff  of  Bristol.  Order  to  suffer  John  Stel, 
Westminster,  master  of  a  crayer  of  Edmund  earl  of  March  and  Ulster  called  the 
1  cogge  Thomas  '  of  Cragfergus,  and  his  fellows  the  seamen  thereof, 
being  of  the  said  earl's  lordship  of  Ulster,  first  paying  the  customs, 
subsidies  and  other  duties  thereupon,  to  pass  out  of  that  port  towards 
Ulster  with  the  said  crayer  and  with  wines  and  other  victuals  bought 
and  purveyed  for  maintenance  of  the  earl's  men  of  Ulster,  any  arrest 
of  the  said  ship,  master  and  seamen  on  the  king's  behalf  made  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding. 

March  23.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  W'ynchelse.  Order,  upon  the  petition 
Westminster,  of  Clays  de  Erode  master  of  a  ship  called  the  '  Seint  Nicholas'  of 
Lescluse  in  Flanders,  Peter  de  Byndre  and  John  Yendome  keepers 
of  wines  which  were  lately  in  the  said  ship,  to  dearrest  them,  the 
said  ship  and  wines,  restoring  without  delay  to  the  said  master  and 
keepers  any  of  the  said  wines  taken  out  of  the  ship,  the  ship  and  the 
charters  and  letters  of  testimony  therein  taken,  and  suffering  them 
without  payment  <>l  custom  or  subsidy  freely  to  pass  therewith  towards 

[Handera,    provided   that   custom,   subsidies   and   duties   shall    be    paid 
to   the   king's   use   upon  any    wines   there  exposed    for  sale;     as   their 

petit  ion  Bhews  that  the  said  ship  and  w  Lnes,  \\  bich  pertain  to  merchants 

of  Flanders  and  not    to  any  other  the  king's  enemies,   were  taken  at 
I   by  certain  the  king's  lieges  and  brought  t<>  the  poll  of  W\  mhelse, 
and   are   there   detained   under  arrest,   praying    restitution;    and   it 
seems  to  the  council  that  restitution  ought  to  be  made. 


- 


LLEXDAR    OF  >E  LLS. 


April  15. 


Kan*  . 


. 


Meminme  27 — comt. 

the  major  and  bailiffs  of  Wvnchelse.     Order  to  dearrest  Henry 

vyk  of  Campe  master  of  a  ship  called  *  la  Crizlofrt '  of  Campe. 

-  merchants  of  Campe.  and  Peter  Jans  of  Flanders,  the  said 

ship  and  the  goods  and  merchandise  therein,  restoring  to  them  any 

goods  taken  out  of  the  ship,  and  suffering  them  without  payment  of 

m  or  subsidy  freely  to  pass  towards  Flanders,  provided  that 
custom,  subsidy  and  other  duties  be  paid  to  the  king's  use  upon  any 
goods  and  merchandise  there  exposed  for  sale,  and  upon  none  other ;  as 
for  particular  causes  the  said  master  and  the  others  were  by  certain 
the  king's  lieges  taken  at  sea  with  the  said  ship  and  the  goods  therein 
and  brought  to  the  said  port,  and  are  there  detained  under  arrest ; 
and  it  seems  to  the  council  that  restitution  ought  to  be  made. 

John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to 
take  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  Barde  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 
that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 
dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  as  usual. 

Me me  26. 

iiam  de  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  dearrest  Henry 
Wicke  merchant  of  Leseluse,  John  li  Oghe.  James  Wouterman  and 

dtz    Henry   merchants   of    Brug^-  ship   of   Lescmse   called 

"  Mar%€*knygkt .'  Peter  de  Coudekirke  master,  and  all  goods  and 
merchandise  therein  which  they  shall  be  assured  to  be  the  proper 
goods  of  the  said  merchants  and  not  of  any  the  king's  enemies,  suffering 
them  without  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the  king's  use,  save 
upon  such  merchandise  as  shall  be  exposed  for  sale,  freely  to  pass 
towards  Flanders  with  the  said  ship  and  their  goods  :  as  on  behalf  of 
'.'-r  S..U2  :_;.?:-.:  :■.-':  :..-■:. _;.:.>  :  .-_■  _l  _;  __.>  _- ..:. .  .■;.  :_. ..:  . :.  :r.e-T 
voyage  towards  Flanders  in  the  said  ship  with  divers  goods  and 
merchandise  of  their  own  and  of  other  merchants  of  Flanders  they 

taken  at  sea  by  Robert  Gibbe  of  Dovorre  and  certain  other  the 
king's  lieges  with  him,  and  brought  with  their  ship  and  goods  to  the 
port  of  Sandwich,  and  are  there  detained  under  arrest,  [praying  for] 
restitution ;  and  having  viewed  letters  and  charters  as  well  of  the 
count  of  Flanders  as  of  divers  burgomasters  and  flribertn*  of  divers 
towns  of  Flanders  sealed  with  their  seals,  which  were  produced  before 
the  council,  it  seems  to  the  council  that  restitution  ought  to  be  made. 
Proviso  that  any  enemies7  goods  in  the  said  ship  among  the  said  goods 
and  merchandise  shall  not  be  covered  by  colour  of  these  presents  nor 
in  anywise  pass  thence,  but  shall  remain  in  the  hands  of  the  king  and 
of  others  to  whom  they  lawfully  pertain. 

7  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  fleet  towards  the  west ,  or  to 
his  lieutenant.  Order  to  dearrest  five  ships  of  Portugal  which  are 
under  arrest  in  the  port  of  Suthampton  with  the  rigging  and  all  their 
gear,  delivering  them  to  the  masters  and  seamen  thereof,  and  suffering 
the  masters  and  seamen  without  let  to  pass  towards  Portugal  therewithl 
command  to  the  admiral  and  heutenant  previously  addressed 
the  contrary  notwithstanding,  provided  that  all" goods  and 
brought  to  the  said  port  in  those  ships  shall  be  safe  kept 


4-    EDWARD    III. 


13 


1374.  Membrane  2o— <ont. 

goods  or  goods  of  merchants  of  Portugal,  and  whether  merchants  of 
gland   being   in  Portugal   are  friendly  entreated   by   the  king  of 
Portugal  and  by  his  subjects  or  no. 

The  like  for  three  ships  in  the  port  of  Dertmuth,  Stephen  Franceys, 
8  Ivadour  Geans  and  John  Bowals  respectively  m 


April  3. 

K::.j- 
Lanelev.* 


T  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  not  to  distrain 
John  de  Xeweland  of  Drass  to  do  homage  and  fealty  a  second  time  to 
the  king  for  the  manor  of  Merston  co.  Lincoln  which  he  lately  purchased 
of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  Lelly.  releasing  any  distress  made  for 
that  cause  ;  as  he  has  done  homage  and  fealty  for  that  manor,  which 
the  said  Joan  held  in  chief  by  knight  service.         By  p.s.  [30063.] 


April  8.  To  William  de  Wvndesore  governor  and  guardian  of  Ireland,  or  to 

:.  his  representative.  Order  to  dearrest  as  well  Richard  Lane  attorney  of 
Walter  Ryburgh  and  other  merchants.  Gunsalo  Grandy  master  of  a 
ship  called  '  la  >         M  f  Olyver  and  the  seamen  thereof,  as  the 

said  ship  and  the  goods  and  merchandise  therein  found,  delivering 
the  goods  and  merchandise  to  the  said  attorney,  master  and  seamen, 
and  suffering  them  therewith  to  pass  from  the  port  of  Waterford  ; 
-  on  behalf  of  the  said  Walter.  John  Shone.  William  Gys  of  Salisbury. 
William  Wotton.  Nicholas  Snyppeston  and  John  Southam  of  London 
merchants  the  king  has  learned  that  their  said  attorney  lately  freighted 
the  said  ship  at  Lussebon  with  divers  merchandise  of  theirs  and 
caused  it  to  be  brought  to  Waterford.  and  that  the  mayor  and  bailiffs 
and  other  ministers  of  that  city,  pretending  that  the  said  attorney, 
master  and  seamen  are  of  the  kings  enemies,  and  that  the  goods 
found  in  the  said  ship  are  enemies'  goods,  have  arrested  as  well  the 
attorney,  master  and  seamen  as  the  ship  and  goods,  and  are  unlawfully 
detaining  them  under  arrest,  although  the  same  pertain  to  the  said 
merchants  and  to  none  other,  praying  for  remedy  :  and  the  B 
merchants  have  proved  before  the  council  in  England  that  the  attorney, 
master  and  seamen  are  of  the  king's  friendship,  and  that  all  the  goods 
brought  to  Waterford  in  the  said  ship  pertain  to  them  without  fraud, 
and  without  that  that  any  of  the  kings  enemies  has  any  share  therein 
or  in  the  ship.     Proviso  that  custom  and  other  du*  .11  be  paid  on 

any  of  the  said  goods  and  merchandise  there  exposed  for  sale,  and 
on  none  other. 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of 
iterford. 

April  12.  the  farmers,  bailiffs,  reeves  or  other  the  keepers  of  the  manor 

.-••  r.  of  Bray  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues  or  farm  of  that  manor 
to  pa}  the  arrears  since  14  August  in  the  43rd 

year  of  the  reign  of  4         -      a  year,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him 
that  sum  every  year,  taking  his  acquittance  for  such  pavrnent- 
time  to  tim-  lippa  by  her  letters  patent    _ 

him  for  life  or  until  she  should  take  other  order  for  1 
bushel  of  wheat  to  1  e  taken  every  week  of  the  Issues  of  the  said  ma 
by   the   hands   of  the   farmers,    bailiffs,   appr  MC 

m;:  for  the  time  being  k 

named,  for  that  bv  her  death  the  said  i  the  ki: 


In  the  text 


14  CALENDAR    OF  CLOSE    ROLLS. 


[374,  Manhmnc  2(> — cont. 

hands,  willing  to  shew  special  favour  to  the  said  Thomas  for  his  good 

rvioe  to  the  said  queen  in  her  life  time,  in  recompense  for  the  said 

wheat  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  him  43s.  4c£.  a  year  for  life 

or  until  other  order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate,  to  be  taken  as 

aforesaid. 

April  14.         To  the  farmers,  bailiffs,  approwers,  reeves  or  other  the  keepers  of 

Westminster,  the  manor  of  Langeleye  Marreys  for  the  time  being.     Like  order, 

mutatis  mutandis,  in  favour  of  John  Beddeford  groom  of  the  said 

queen's  chamber,  in  consideration  of  his  good  service  to  her  in  her 

life  time. 

April  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay 
\\.  -t minster,  to  Richard  la  Zouche  the  arrears  from  1  October  in  the  32nd  year  of 
the  reign  of  40  marks  a  year,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum 
every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  taking  his 
acquittance  for  every  payment  ;  as  lately  of  his  favour  the  king  by 
letters  patent  granted  the  said  Richard  for  good  service  and  for  abiding 
with  him  40  marks  to  be  taken  every  year  at  the  exchequer  for  his 
fee  during  his  life  or  until  the  king  should  take  other  order  for  his 
estate  ;  and  after  on  the  day  named,  that  he  might  the  more  speedily 
be  contented  thereof,  and  for  that  he  gave  up  the  said  letters  in 
chancery  to  be  cancelled,  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters 
patent  that  he  should  take  40  marks  a  year  of  the  issues  of  the  said 
county  at  the  aforesaid  terms. 
Et  erat  patens. 

April  15.  To  the  mayor  of  the  city  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  Roger  Penros,  to  suffer  him  without  let,  after  payment  of  the  subsidies 
and  customs  thereupon  due,  to  carry  sixteen  tuns  one  pipe  of  wine 
from  that  city  whither  he  will,  provided  it  be  not  out  of  the  realm  ; 
as  his  petition  shews  that  lately  he  brought  the  same  thither  for  sale, 
and  that  for  the  weakness  thereof  he  may  not  sell  it  there  without 
grievous  loss,  praying  licence  to  carry  it  by  land  and  by  water  to 
other  parts  of  England  to  make  his  advantage  thereof. 

April  16.         To  Thomas  Dey  and  Odo  Bedman.     Order,  for  particular  causes. 

Westminster,  not  to  meddle  henceforward  in  the  office  of  searching  for  gold,  silver, 

jewels,  letters  of  exchange  and  other  things  which  concern  that  office 

in  the  town  and  port  of  Fowy,  the  arms  of  the  sea,  and  other   the 

waters  and  sea  coasts  adjacent,  although  lately  by  letters  patent  the 

king  appointed  them  to  execute  the  same  ;    as  it  is  his  will  that  they 

be  thereof  discharged  toward  him. 

April  20.         The  like  to  John  Botelson,  Richard  Aby  and  Lawrence  de  Wotton, 

Westminster,  searchers  in  the  town  and  port  of  Grymesby. 

April  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.  Order  to  cause  John  de  Chernok  to 
Westminster,  have  seisin  of  3  acres  of  land  in  Kyrden  held  by  Richard  son  of  John 
Hoggesson  of  Kyrden  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have 
been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the 
said  Richard  held  them  of  the  said  John,  and  that  Matthew  de  Rixton 
had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer 
to  the  king  for  the  same. 


48    EDWARD    III.  15 


1374.  Membrane  20 — cunt. 

Feb.  10.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  manor  of  Longebenvngton.     Order 

Westminster,  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay  to  William  de  Stapelton,  if  living, 
10/.  for  Easter  term  next,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  Humphrey  de 
Bohun  late  earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex  by  his  letters  patent  granted 
to  the  said  William  his  esquire  for  life  for  good  service  a  yearly  rent  of  20/. 
to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  said  manor 
and  all  the  earl's  lands  in  Huntingdonshire  ;  and  after  at  the  request  of 
the  said  William,  whom  by  letters  patent  the  king  has  appointed  during 
pleasure  constable  of  Loghmaban  castle  and  of  the  lordship  of  Anand- 
dale.  which  were  of  the  said  earl  a  tenant  in  chief,  and  are  in  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heirs,  the  king 
thought  fit  by  letters  patent  to  exemplify  the  earl's  said  letters, 
willing  and  granting  that  the  said  William  shall  take  that  rent  so  long 
as  he  shall  remain  constable. 

April  24.  To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Dorset.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Bradele 
in  Purbyk  taken  into  his  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Bridport, 
delivering  to  Eleanor  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Thomas  at  his  death  held  that  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Eleanor, 
and  that  the  same  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

April  18.  To  Roger  de  Elinrugge  and  John  de  Baldyngton  keepers  of  the 
Westminster,  priory  of  St.  Frideswide  Oxford,  which  is  in  the  king's  hand.  Order 
to  pay  to  Henry  le  Forster  clerk  what  pertains  to  him  of  405.  yearly 
from  the  time  the  king  committed  to  them  the  keeping  of  that  prior}', 
and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  so  long  as  they  shall  have  the 
keeping  thereof,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  at  the  king's  request 
John  de  Walvngford  late  prior  and  the  convent  granted  to  the  said 
Henry  by  reason  of  the  said  prior's  new  creation  a  yearly  pension  of 
40.s.  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  the  Annunciation  by  even  portions 
until  by  the  prior  and  convent  or  by  their  successors  provision  should 
be  made  him  of  a  benefice. 

Membrane  25. 

April  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the 
tminster.  issues  of  his  bailiwick  to  pay  to  John  Porchestre  the  king's  Serjeant 
the  arrears  from  11  October  last  of  his  wages  of  2d.  a  day,  and  hence- 
forward to  pay  him  those  wages  so  long  as  he  shall  remain  in  the  office 
of  janitor  of  Porchestre  castle,  taking  his  acquittance ;  as  on 
15  Decern  her  in  the  46th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  granted  that  office 
to  the  said  John  during  pleasure  with  the  wages  and  fees  thereto 
belonging,  such  as  Nicholas  Eaveryng  deceased  used  to  have  ;  and  on 
11  October  last  by  letters  patent  willed  that  he  should  have  the  wages 
aforesaid  of  the  issues  of  that  county  by  the  bands  of  the  sheriff,  for 
the  kin<_'  learned  of  a  surety  that  the  same  are  hut  2d '.  a  day.  and  that 
the  said  .Nicholas  used  to  take  them  as  aforesaid. 
Et  erat  patens. 

May  1.  To   the  keeper  of  the   king's   manor  of   Klthani    for   the   time   being. 

tmin  ter.  Order  to  pay  to  .John  de  Beverleye  the  king's  esquire  the  arrears 
from  26  February  in  the  13rd  year  of  his  reign  oil  ->*l.  a  day,  and  hence- 
forward to  pay  him  that   Bum  £rom  tune  to  time  so  long  as  he  shall 


1.. 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


[374.  Mi  iiihraiif    25 — cont. 

stand  in  the  oilier  of  parker  of  Eltham  parks,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 
as  on  that  day  of  his  favour  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  that 
office  for  life  to  the  said  John  for  good  service,  taking  therein  3d.  a 
day  of  the  issues  of  the  manor  by  the  hands  of  the  keeper  thereof. 

April  28.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the  forest  of 
WeetminBter.  Clarvndon  to  be  elected  instead  of  Henry  Gilbert,  who  is  insufficiently 
qualified. 

April  20.         To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Eyton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  1.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  pond  of  Wetherhale 
of  the  abbot  of  St.  Mary  York  and  the  profits  thereof,  delivering  to 
the  abbot  any  issues  and  profits  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king 
ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  under  seal  in  chancery  the  cause 
wherefore  the  same  was  by  William  de  Ergum  late  escheator  taken 
into  the  king's  hand,  and  the  yearly  value  thereof,  and  he  certified 
that  the  late  escheator  so  took  the  same  for  that  it  was  found  by 
inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  the  abbot  has  the  said 
pond  in  the  river  Eden,  in  the  midst  whereof  is  an  outlet  which  ought 
to  be  open  from  the  Nativity  of  the  Virgin  so  that  salmons  may  have 
egress  and  ingress,  which  outlet  is  by  the  abbot  closed  to  the  grievous 
loss  of  the  king  and  people,  and  that  the  same  is  extended  at  20s.  a 
year,  as  appears  in  an  indenture  made  between  the  said  late  escheator 
and  the  now  escheator  and  to  the  latter  delivered  ;  and  the  king 
reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 


May  6.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Salop  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Richard  Hort  of  WTelleworth,  who  is  dead. 

May  5.  To  Richard  de  Radeclyf  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order  to  certify 

H '•  -tminster.  in  chancery  under  his  seal  the  cause  whereof  100  acres  of  pasture 
of  the  abbot  of  Kirkstall  in  Admergill  was  by  him  taken  into  the 
king's  hand,  the  true  value  thereof,  by  what  abbot  the  same  was 
acquired,  when,  and  of  whom,  whether  before  or  after  the  statute  of 
mortmain,  of  whom  it  is  held,  how,  and  by  what  service,  sending 
again  this  writ ;  as  for  particular  causes  the  king  lately  ordered  the 
escheator  to  certify  the  cause  aforesaid,  and  he  returned  that  he  found 
by  inquisition,  before  him  taken,  that  without  the  king's  licence  a 
certain  abbot  of  Kirkestall,  predecessor  of  the  now  abbot,  acquired  the 
said  pasture  to  him  and  his  successors,  and  that  the  same  is  worth 
\&.  a  year  for  every  acre  beyond  reprises,  and  for  that  cause  he  took 
the  same  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  reckoning  that  return  insufficient 
the  king  has  amerced  the  escheator  at  40s. 

May  10.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.  Order 
Westminster,  to  take  the  fealty  of  Alice  wife  of  John  de  Roos  knight  for  the  manor 
of  Asshildham  and  the  manor  of  Radewynter  called  the  Roos  manor 
according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's 
hand  and  meddle  no  further  therewith  nor  with  divers  other  manors 
and  lands  in  those  counties  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said 
John's  death,  delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;   as  the  king 


Is   HOWARD  HI.  17 


1874.  V  mbrcme  25 — cont. 

has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at 
his  death  the  said  John  held  no  lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  nor 
of  any  other  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  gift  of  William  Frere  and 
others  held  jointly  with  the  said  Alice  the  manor  of  Asshildham  by 
knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Reylegh,  the  said  manor 
of  Radewynter  by  knighl  service  of  the  heirs  of  Humphrey  de  Hohun 
earl  of  Hereford  tenant  in  chief  who  were  within  age  and  m  the  kii 
wardship,  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands  of  others  than  the  king. 

May  14.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  search 

Westminster,  the  rolls  and  memoranda  and  other  the  evidences  of  the  exchequer 
relating  to  the  matter,  and  if  by  view  thereof,  by  inquisition  or  otherwise 
assured  that  the  farms  hereinafter  mentioned  are  parcel  of  Exeter 
castle,  pertained  thereto  of  old  time  and  ought  to  pertain  thereto,  to 
stay  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  divers  sheriffs 
of  Devon  to  answer  for  the  said  farms  and  the  arrears  thereof  from 
10  April  in  the  22nd  year  of  the  reign,  thereof  discharging  those  sheriffs 
and  other  sheriffs  for  the  time  being  and  Edward  prince  of  Wales,  and 
suffering  the  said  prince  to  take  and  have  the  same  ;  as  on  the  day 
named  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  the  said  castle  to  him  for 
life  with  reversion  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of 
the  said  sheriffs  since  that  day  the  king  has  learned  that  the  treasurer 
and  the  barons  have  charged  them  in  their  accounts  at  the  exchequer 
with  certain  farms  in  that  county  and  the  arrears  thereof  since 
the  said  date,  namely  a  farm  of  11.  16s.  9d.  a  year  of  Gedlegh 
and  Fenotry,  21s.  Sd.  a  year  of  small  parcels  of  serjeanties.  14s.  6^/.  a 
year  of  small  farms,  and  5s.  a  year  of  Henry  de  Hughton  for  the  fee 
farm  of  four  messuages  and  2  acres  of  land  in  Exeter,  though  the 
same  are  parcel  of  the  said  castle  and  thereto  pertained  of  old  time, 
and  though  the  prince  has  taken  them  since  the  grant  of  the  castle 
to  him  made,  wherefore  they  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy. 

May  18.  To   William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Northumberland.     Order  to 

bminsfc ir.  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  of 
John  son  of  Adam  de  Corbrigge  chaplain  in  Corbrigge  and  Mitford, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  [ordered 
the  escheator  to  certify]  the  cause  wherefore  the  premises  were  by 
William  Ergum  late  escheator  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and 
their  description,  and  he  returned  that  the  late  escheator  delivered  to 
him  by  indenture  24  acres  of  land  by  Corbrigge  which  were  in  the 
king's  hand  for  (hat  the  ancestors  of  Robert  son  of  Roger,  being  tenants 
in  chief  of  the  manor  of  Corbrigge,  founded  a  house  of  lepers  by 
Corbrigge,  giving  the  aforesaid  land  to  find  one  chaplain  there 
celebrating  mass  for  the  lepers  every  Sunday  and  feast  day.  and  for 
that  no  chaplain  is  found  nor  celebrates  there,  likewise  divers  lands 

and  a  meadow  which  were  in  the  king's  hand  for  that  the  lord  of 
Mitford.  being  tenant  in  chief  of  the  manor  of  Mitford.  founded 
Mitfordspitel  giving  that  land  and  meadow  to  find  a  chaplain  there 
Celebrating,  and  lor  that  no  chaplain  is  there  found  hut  is  long  time 
withdrawn,  and  that   the  premises  are  yet   in  the  king's  hand  for  th< 

and  the  king  reckons  th  uses  insufficient. 

Apnl  IT.        To   Ralph  de  Thresh  escheator  in   Lincoln-hire.     Order  t.i  deliver 
to    William   BOH   and   heir  of  John   Coke  of    Helton,    otherwise    called 

I   i: 


is  GALENDAB    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


L874.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

John  del  Botlic  of  Belton,  four  messuages,  eight  tofts,  one  bovate 
1T>  acres  of  land,  the  moiety  of  one  bovate  1  acre,  two  thirds  of  one 
toft  in  Belton  and  Epworth,  one  toft  and  10  acres  of  land  in  those 
towns,  and  one  toft  in  Belton  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  for  causes 
hereinafter  mentioned,  with  all  issues  and  profits  thereof  taken;  as 
it  is  found  by  inquisition,  by  the  escheator  taken  at  the  king's  command, 
that  at  his  death  the  said  John  held  the  first  mentioned  messuages, 
tofts,  land  and  two  thirds  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the  twentieth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee,  the  said  toft  and  10  acres  in  socage  of  John  de 
Mowbray  of  Axiholme  deceased,  and  the  said  toft  in  Belton  of  Richard 
de  Belwode,  that  John  de  Mowbray  occupied  all  the  premises  taking 
the  profits  from  the  death  of  the  said  tenant  until  Friday  before 
Midsummer  in  the  42nd  year  of  the  reign,  and  John  Noble  clerk  (now 
deceased  intestate  it  is  said)  from  that  day  until  the  feast  of  St.  Peter's 
Chains  in  the  46th  3'ear,  after  which  feast  the  said  William,  who  is 
now  aged  23  years  and  more,  without  process  in  the  king's  court  as 
the  manner  is  entered  and  has  until  now  occupied  the  premises  taking  the 
profits  thereof,  and  marrying  without  the  king's  licence  and  will,  and  that 
for  those  causes  the  premises  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and 
by  fine  with  him  made  by  the  said  William  the  king  of  his  favour  has 
pardoned  those  contempts  and  trespasses,  granting  so  far  as  in  him 
lies  that  the  said  William  shall  have  again  and  hold  the  premises 
of  the  king  and  others  as  aforetime  with  the  issues  and  profits  thereof 
taken  as  aforesaid.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  escheator  be  thereof 
discharged  toward  him. 

May  16.  To  William  le  la  Vale  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order  not  to 
\\  <  -tminster.  meddle  in  levjang  such  extortion  as  hereinafter  mentioned  ;  as  lately 
the  king  ordered  him  to  certify  under  seal  in  chancery  the  cause  where- 
fore the  toll  of  the  citizens  of  Karliol  at  Amotbrigge  and  elsewhere 
was  by  William  de  Ergum  late  escheator  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
and  the  value  thereof,  and  he  returned  that  the  late  escheator  found 
by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office  and  delivered  by 
indenture  to  the  now  escheator,  that  the  mayor,  bailiffs  and  citizens 
of  Karliol  at  Amotbrigge,  Blenkarnebek,  Hertesheved  and  other  places 
at  the  outgoings  of  the  city  take  toll  of  all  merchandise  coming  from 
Scotland  to  England  and  from  England  to  Scotland  at  its  entry  or 
outgoing,  having  usurped  that  toll  for  20  years  and  yet  day  by  day 
usurping  the  same,  whereas  they  ought  not  to  take  toll  save  within 
the  city  bounds,  and  that  the  toll  is  yearly  worth  20?.,  and  for  that 
cause  the  same  is  yet  in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  the  said  cause  being 
before  the  council  viewed  and  examined  in  chancery,  it  seems  to  the 
council  by  the  escheator's  certificate  that  what  the  mayor,  bailiffs 
and  citizens  are  so  levying  and  taking  is  an  extortion.  It  is  the 
king's  will  that  at  his  pleasure  inquisition  be  made  concerning  such 
extortions  by  those  whom  he  has  appointed  for  the  purpose,  and  that 
a  remedy  be  applied. 

Membrane  24. 

May  4.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Northumberland.      Order  to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the   chapel 

of  St.  Lawrence  Byker  of  Richard  de  Gascoigne,  delivering   up  any 

issues  thereof  taken  ;    as  lately  for  particular  causes  the  king  ordered 


48  EDWARD  HI.  19 


1374.  Membram  2\ — cont. 

the  escheator  to  certify  under  his  seal  in  chancery  the  cause  and 
manner  of  hi^  taking  that  chapel  into  the  kind's  hand,  and  he  certified 
that  William  de  Ergum  late  escheator  delivered  to  him  by  indenture 
that  the  ancestors  of  the  lord  of  Byker,  beim*  tenants  in  chief  by 
grand  Berjeanty,  founded  a  chantry  in  the  said  chapel  within  their 
lordship,  giving  to  the  same  divers  lands  to  find  a  chaplain  to  celebrate 
divine  service  for  the  souls  of  the  king  and  his  ancestors  and  of  the 
founders'  ancestors,  and  that  the  said  chantry  is  withdrawn  by  Joan 
who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupeland,  and  for  that  cause  the  said  lands 
are  in  the  kind's  hand  ;  and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 
The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  William  de  Ergum  late  escheator. 

To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Like  order,  mutatis 
mutandis,  concerning  the  hospital  of  Lassyngby  ;  as  the  escheator 
certified  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office, 
that  John  de  Lythegraynes  knight,  who  founded  a  hospital  at 
Laysyngby  in  AUertonshire,  long  before  the  statute  of  mortmain, 
enfeoffed  the  same  of  the  whole  manor  of  Laysyngby  to  find  six  chaplains 
to  celebrate  divine  service  therein  for  ever  for  the  souls  of  the  kings 
and  the  founders  and  of  the  faithful  departed,  and  to  perform  divers 
alms,  that  the  chantry  and  the  said  alms  have  ceased  20  years  and 
more,  and  that  John  Moubray  parson  of  Riple}',  who  has  occupied  the 
hospital  ten  years  and  more  and  does  yet  occupy  the  same,  has  turned 
the  means  thereof  to  secular  uses,  and  for  that  cause  the  hospital 
and  manor  are  in  the  king's  hand. 

May  5.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  .John  Broun  the  lands  and  rents  of  the  said  John  and  Eleanor  his 
wife  in  Raghton,  Gaytescales,  Crokedayke,  Blakthwayt,  Langholm, 
Blencogowe,  Crofton,  Cryngildyk,  Waverton,  Gamelisby  and  rloton, 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  octaves  of  Trinity 
last  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery 
the  cause  and  manner  of  taking  the  premises  into  his  hand  by  William 
de  Ergum  late  escheator,  and  the  value  thereof,  and  lie  returned 
that  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  taken  before  the  late  escheator,  that 
about  Michaelmas  in  the  46th  year  of  the  reign  the  said  John  committed 
a  felony  by  slaying  Thomas  de  Raghton,  for  which  felony  he  withdrew 
himself  and  was  a  fugitive,  that  on  the  day  of  the  said  felony  he  had 
divers  lands  in  Hougbryghtby  and  in  the  towns  aforesaid  in  right  of 
his  said  wife,  held  in  chief  by  divers  services  and  extended  at  100s.  a 
year,  and  for  that  cause  the  late  escheator  took  the  said  lands  into 
the  king's  hand  ;  and  by  certificate  of  John  de  Cavendissh  the  chief 
justice,  made  and  returned  in  chancery  at  the  king's  command,  the 
king  is  assured  that  in  the  octaves  aforesaid  John  Broun  rendered 
himself  to  the  marshalsea  prison,  and  was  not  put  in  exigents  bef< 
the  king  by  reason  of  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas  ;  and  on  2  t  January 
last  of  his  favour  the  king  by  letters  patent  pardoned  him  the  suit  of 

his  peace  pertaining  to  the  king  for  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas 
whereof  he  was  indicted  or  app  tied,  and  any  outlawry  published 

against  him  for  that  cause,  granting  him  the  kiii'/s  peace,  provided 
that  In-  should  stand  to  right  m  the  king's  court  m  any  cause  which 
any  man  would  bring  against  him  by  reason  of  the  death  aforesaid. 

Maj    In.         To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in   Dorset.     Order  to  remove  the 
U     mi  ik  tor.  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Ilolne    in 


CALENDAR    OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1874.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

Purbyk  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  Bridport, 
delivering  to  Eleanor  his  w  ife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  tlie  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas 
at  his  deatli  held  that  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Eleanor,  and  that 
it  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order  to  take 
the  fealty  of  William  de  Rodome  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule 
enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with 
the  lands  in  Espele  which  were  of  John  de  Espele  adherent  of  the  Scots 
who  were  enemies  and  rebels  against  the  late  king,  and  by  forfeiture 
of  the  said  John  came  as  an  escheat  to  the  late  king's  hands,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Espele  ; 
as  on  3  February  in  the  9th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent 
gave  all  those  lands  to  the  said  Thomas  for  his  good  service  and  to 
his  heirs,  to  hold  by  the  same  services  as  before  they  came  to  the  late 
king's  hands  ;  and  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  by  the  escheator  taken 
at  the  king's  command,  that  by  virtue  of  the  said  charter  the  said 
Thomas  at  his  death  Avas  seised  of  the  same  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
that  Emma  his  daughter,  whom  William  de  Rodome  has  now  taken 
to  wife,  is  his  next  heir  and  of  full  age,  that  those  lands  are  held  of 
Mitford  castle  by  the  service  of  lib.  of  cumin,  and  that  the  said  William 
de  Rodome  and  Emma  in  her  right  have  taken  and  do  yet  take  the 
issues  and  profits  thereof  since  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas,  who 
died  on  Thursday  before  St.  Leonard  in  the  30th  year  of  the  reign  ; 
and  the  said  castle  is  now  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  David  de 
Strabolgi  last  earl  of  Athole  tenant  thereof  in  chief,  and  by  reason  of 
the  nonage  of  his  heirs. 

May  10.         To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.     Order 
Westminster,  to  take  the  fealty  of  Alice  wife  of  John  de  Roos  knight  etc.   (as 
above,  p.  16). 

May  16.  To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  Edmund  son  of  Hugh  son  of  Edmund  le  Blount  tenant  in  chief  deceased, 
and  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  Edmund  deceased,  to  have  seisin  of 
his  said  grandfather's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ; 
as  the  said  heir  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king 
has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30124.] 

May  19.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland, 
Westminster.  Cumberland  and  Westmorland.  Order  to  cause  Ralph  son  and  heir 
of  William  baron  of  Greystoke  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  his 
said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the 
said  Ralph  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has 
taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30127.] 

To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Like  order  ;    as 
Ralph  son  and  heir  of  the  said  William  has  proved  his  age  before 
William  de  la  Vale. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Roger  Keterych  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire. 

John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Bedfordshire  and  Bukinghamshire. 

Nicholas  Seymour  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 


I-    KDWA1M)    III. 


21 


1374.  Membrane  24 — con/. 

To  Tli.  bishop  of  Durham.  Order  to  command  livery  to  be  given 
to  the  said  Ralph  son  of  William  of  his  father's  lands  within  the  liberty 
of  Durham  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  etc.,  and  the  king  has  commanded 
lively  to  be  given  him  of  his  father's  lands. 

May  23.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandwich.   Order  of  the  king's  favour  to 

Westminster,  dearrest  one  pipe  of  thread  of  Rois  of  Tankard  fitz  Clays  of  Lescluse,  and 
another  of  merchants  of  Flanders  found  in  a  ship  called  'Maydach,' 
suffering  the  said  merchants  to  take  the  same  over  to  Flanders  without 
payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the  king's  use  save  for  such  as  shall 
be  exposed  for  sale  ;  as  the  same  was  found  among  certain  wines  of 
merchants  of  Flanders  which  by  advice  of  the  council  the  king  lately 
decreed  should  be  delivered  up,  and  is  under  arrest  in  the  said  port. 

To  the  same.  Like  order  concerning  [thread]  of  John  Orneweider 
and  Arnald  Lammins  burgesses  of  Ardenbourch  merchants  found  in 
a  ship  called  '  la  Seinte  Marie  '  among  wines  of  merchants  of  Flanders. 

May  22.  To  William  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 
Westminster,  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  by  inquisition  and  other 
lawful  means  and  convenient,  as  he  shall  think  best,  to  take  information 
touching  a  complaint  made  on  behalf  of  certain  merchants  of  Flanders 
that  certain  wines  of  theirs  were  lately  taken  at  sea  and  are  b}^  the 
king's  lieges  and  subjects  of  England  Masted  and  eloigned,  and  to  cause 
due  and  speedy  justice  to  be  done  to  the  said  merchants  in  regard  to  the 
presumptuous  attempts  of  the  said  lieges,  certifying  the  king  and 
council  of  the  hindrance  if  he  may  not  make  fitting  recompense 
touching  the  same,  in  order  that  the  king  may  act  as  by  law  ought 
to  be  done  for  reformation  of  such  damage  and  loss  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  of  the  premises  by  the  said  merchants'  complaint,  praying 
for  remedy,  and  by  advice  of  the  council  he  would  deal  generously 
with  them. 


May  23.  To  Walter  de  Leycestre  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms.  Order,  if 
Westminster,  assured  by  oaths  to  him  given,  by  examination  and  otherwise  that 
the  facts  are  as  hereinafter  rehearsed,  to  cause  as  well  103  tuns  of 
wine  of  the  king's  enemies,  according  to  his  commission,  as  42 
tuns  of  Frederick  dwelling  at  >Seint  Malois  del  Isle  in  Brittany 
the  king's  enemy,  to  be  delivered  to  those  to  whom  they  pertain, 
William  filz  Christians  Fourmer  of  Lescluse.  master  of  a  ship  called 
1  la  Seinte  Anne,'  being  first  contented  of  his  freightage  for  all  of 
them,  and  to  restore  to  the  -aid  master  any  wines  or  merchandise 
remaining  in  the  said  ship  over  and  above  the  I  16  tuns  of  wine 
aforesaid  :  as  OD  18  May  last  at  the  said  master's  suit,  a\  erring  that 
the  said  ship  laded   with  138  tuns  of  wine  was  by  lord  le   Despenser 

lately    taken    at     aea    and    brought    to    the    port    01  Ciccstre,   that    103 

tuns  of  that  wine  were  enemies'  goods  and  35  tuns  thereof  of  the 
goods  of  him  the  said  master  and  other  merchants  of  Flanders  bis 
fellows,  bv  advice  of  the  council  the  king  by  letterspatenl  appointed 
the  aaid  Walter  to  cause  those  l  h:j  tuns  to  be  delivered  to  those  to 
whom  they  pertain,  and  the  ship  and  the  said  .'!•">  tuns  to  the 
said  mastei  ;  hut  EDdward  Dalyngrugge  knight  has  before  the  council 
alleged  that  over  and  above  those  103  tuns  there  were  in  the  said  ship 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


l.i  i  1.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

42  tana  of  wino  of  the  said  Frederick's  goods  and  not  of  the  said 
merchants,  so  that  these  likewise  ought  to  be  forfeit  over  and  above 
the  103  tuns. 

April  24.  To  William  de Huntyngfeld,  John  de  Cavendissh,  Roger  de  Kirketon, 
Westminster.  William  de  Spaigne,  Roger  Toop'  and  their  fellows,  justices  appointed 
to  preserve  the  peace  in  the  parts  of  Holand  co.  Lincoln,  or  to  any 
of  them.  Order  to  cause  a  constable  in  those  parts  to  be  elected 
instead  of  Robert  de  Meres  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  credible  witness 
that  by  colour  of  his  office  the  said  Robert  since  he  has  stood  therein 
has  caused  and  ceases  not  daily  to  cause  hurt,  evildoings  and  extortions 
in  order  to  extort  money  from  the  people  of  those  parts ;  and  the  king 
would   make  provision  for  the  peace  of  his  people. 

Mandate  to  the  said  Robert  to  meddle  no  further  in  that  office. 

Membrane  23. 

May  10.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to 
Westminster.  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex 
tenant  in  chief  such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  fees  and  parts  of  fees 
following  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  of  the  knights'  fees  of  her 
said  husband  and  of  the  barony  of  Penkethelyn  lordship  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heirs, 
namely  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Terlynge  held  by  Roger 
Redlegh  and  extended  at  25s.  a  year,  four  knights'  fees  in  Berneston, 
Rothyng  Berners,  Berwyk,  High  Estre,  Neweton,  Donmowe  and 
Strathale  lately  held  by  John  de  Berners  knight  at  20/.,  four  knights'  fees 
and  a  quarter  in  Bromfeld,  Black  Nottele,  Chatham,  Great  Waltham 
and  Radelegh  now  held  by  Thomas  de  Maundeville  the  elder  knight  at 
21/.  59.,  three  knights'  fees  in  Teye  Maundeville,  Spryngfeld  to  wit 
Kyueton,  Asshildham,  Aldham,  Dansey  and  Wolwich  sometime  held 
by  Thomas  Merk  at  15/.,  three  knights'  fees  in  South  Wokyndon, 
Kyngeswode  and  Bartlesden  sometime  of  Maurice  de  Bruyn  and 
now  held  by  Robert  de  Marny  knight  at  15/.,  two  knights'  fees  in 
Masshebery  and  Mose  sometime  held  by  William  Bottevyleyn  at  10/., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Shelwe  Jocelyn  now  held  by  Robert  Marchal  at  100s., 
two  knights'  fees  in  Little  Burstede  formerly  held  by  Humphrey  de 
Walden  knight  at  10/.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Elsenham 
formerly  held  by  the  said  Humphrey  at  50s.,  two  knights'  fees  in 
StoweMareysnowheldby  John  Mareys  at  10/.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Dunton 
by  Herwardstoke  held  by  the  abbot  of  Waltham  Holy  Cross  at  100s., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Tillebery  held  by  Henry  de  Coggeshale  at  100s., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Estilbury  lately  held  by  Edward  son  of  Simon  at 
100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Estilbery  aforesaid  sometime  of  Edmund 
Kemsek  and  lately  held  by  Thomas  Gobyoun  knight  at  100s. ,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Shelwe  held  by  the  prior  of  Blakamore  at  100s.,  the  tenth  part 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Willynghale  held  by  the  said  prior  at  10s.,  one 
knight's  fee  in  Ardelay  sometime  held  by  Thomas  Martel  at  100s., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Macchyng  and  Great  Waltham  formerly  held 
by  Thomas  Bataille  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  High  Estre  now  held  by 
Peter  atte  Hide  at  100s..  one  knight's  fee  in  Dannebury  now  held  by 
Rejmold  de  Grey  knight  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  High  Estre  held 
by  John  Gildesburgh  at  100s.,  three  fourths  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Wikepet  by  Neweport  lately  held  by  Robert  de  la  Rokele  at  3/.  15s., 


4S  EDWARD  III.  23 


1374.  Membrane  23 — coal. 

the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Little  Canefeld  formerly  held  by 
Richard  earl  of  Arundel]  at  50*.,  the  third  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Walden  and  the  twelfth  part  of  one  fee  there  formerly  held  by  the 

abbot  of  Walden  at  1 1-.  4-/..  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Walden 
sometime  of  William  de  Westeleye  now  held  by  Richard  Wynter  in 

right  of  his  wife  at  50*.,  the  fifth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Walden 
held  by  Geoffrey  le  Boteler  at  20s.,  the  tenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee 
called  Starlyngeshel  in  Donton  held  by  the  prior  of  Okebome  at  10s., 
the  sixth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Gynge  Puette  formerly  held  by 
Nicholas  Foucher  at  L6*.  8d.,  the  tenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Great  Waltham  lately  held  by  Simon  de  la  Boterie  at  10s.,  the  eighth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Great  Waltham  now  held  by  Peter  atte  Hyde 
at  12*.  8d.}  one  knight's  fee  in  High  Estre  held  by  the  heirs  of  Gilbert 
Stanford  knight  at  100s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  lee  in  Godythestre 
and  Masshebury  and  High  Estre  lately  held  by  John  Berners  knight 
at  50s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Godythestre,  Masshebury 
and  High  Estre  now  held  by  Nicholas  Eitz  Richard  at  50s-.,  the  tenth  part 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Sparehauekeseye  in  Little  Waltham  held  by 
Edmund  Warner  at  10s.,  two  knights'  fees  in  Shellegh  held  by  Thomas 
del  Legh  at  10/.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Chigenhale  Tany  formerly  held  by 
John  Throkkesford  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Chigenhale  and 
Elsynham  by  Thremenhale  formerly  held  by  John  Bottourt  and  now 
by  Walter  Blount  at  100s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Chigenhale 
and  Elsynham  aforesaid  held  by  the  prior  of  Donmowe  at  50s.,  one 
knight's  fee  in  Rothynge  Abbesse  formerly  held  by  Oger  son  of  Michael 
at  100s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Stepelbumpstede  formerly 
held  by  Robert  de  Manceby  at  50a.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Little  Bumpstede  formerly  held  by  William  de  Bloy  at  25a., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Wygeberwe  by  Saltcotenow  held  by  Walter  atte  Lee 
knight  at  100s\.  the  tenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Walden  at 
Kybworthey  formerly  held  by  William  Ghamberleyn  knight  at  10*., 
the  fifth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Great  Waltham  now  held  by  Edmund 
Warner  at  20s.,  the  23rd  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Great  Waltham 
formerly  held  by  the  abbot  of  Walden  at  5*.,  the  fourth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Walden  now  licit  1  by  Richard  Wynter  at  25s.,  the  twentieth 
part  of  one  knight",  fee  in  Walden  called  Pirnho  held  by  the  said 
Richard  at  5s.,  two  knights'  ices  in  Chikenhale  Trenchefoil  held  by 
Alice  de  Nevyle  at  10/.,  three  knights'  fees  in  Chigenhale  and  Siam- 
bourne  held  by  the  said  Alice  and  John  Welde  and  sometime  by  John 
de  la  Lee.  John  de  Creville  and  Margery  de  Mose  at  15/..  one  knight's 
fee  in  Donmowe  sometime  held  by  .John  Hoys  at  LOO*.,  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Walden  Bometime  of  William  de  Sancto  Michaele 
and  after  held  by  the  abbot  of  Walden  at  50*.,  the  tenth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Depedene  formerly  held  by  Edmund  de  Postede  at 
LO*.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Gyng  held  by  the 
abbot  of  Stratford  at  50*.,  the  third  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Willynghale  formerly  held  by  Philip  de  Kopell'  at  33*.  I'/.,  the  fourth 
pari  "i  one  knight's  lee  in  Estre  held  by  the  abbol  of  Tilteye  at  25*., 
th<-  fourth  pari  <>i  one  knight's  !<■(•  in  the  parish  of  Alvythele  called 
Bumpstedenaile  formerly  held  by  John  de  Staunton  at  25*.,  the  fourth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Horndon  formerly  held  by  Abel  de 
Wythyfeld  at  25*.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight'  fee  in  Benyflet 
and  Nevinden  held  by  the  abbol  "l  Coleestre  at  25*.,  two 
knight      fees   in   Terlyng   held   by   the   bishop  oi   Norwich   at    !<>/., 


•_M  CALKXIWK    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


[374,  Membrane  23 — cont. 

one  knight's  fee  in  Terlyng  called  Neketon  formerly  held  by 
Nicholas  de  Ealweston  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Chaldwell 
formerly  held  by  Thomas  de  Gravesende  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee 
in  Wike  sometime  held  by  Roger  de  Barle  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee 
in  Bobbyngworth  formerly  held  by  Henry  Spigurnell  and  three 
quarters  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Staundon  lately  held  by  Edmund 
Spigurnell  at  81.  15s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Rammesden  Creye  and 
Rammesden  Belhous,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Dunmowe 
and  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Reynes  sometime  held  by 
Roger  de  Merk  at  11.  10s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Wifiynghale  Spaigne  and  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  that 
town  held  by  Roger  Fitz  Andre  we  at  50s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  sometime  of  William  Thorlegh  in  Amberden  formerly  held  by 
Joan  Flam  bard  at  50s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Lammersh  held  by  the 
prince  of  Wales  at  100s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Radwynter 
and  Walden  formerly  held  by  John  Roos  knight  at  50s.,  the  fourth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Chishull  held  by  the  heirs  of  John  Benyngton 
at  25s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Walden  called  Mateines 
formerly  held  by  the  abbot  of  Walden  at  50s.,  two  knights'  fees  in 
Chishull  called  Cardons  held  by  the  heirs  of  Roger  Depham,  by  Henry 
Spigurnell,  John  Outlawe,  James  Freman,  Alice  Gerard,  John  Phippe, 
Nicholas  Jebyn,  the  abbot  of  Walden  and  the  abbot  of  Tilteye  at  101., 
all  in  Essex  ;  one  knight's  fee  and  a  half  in  Catteworth  co.  Huntyngdon 
formerly  held  by  Thomas  de  Bekeryng  at  11.  10s.,  the  tenth  part  of 
one  knight's  fee  in  Baldynghore  by  Massyngdene  now  held  by  Thomas  de 
Bassyngbourne  at  10s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Amoun- 
desham  formerly  held  by  Walter  de  Rau  at  25s.,  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Querendon  now  held  by  Thomas  earl  of  Warrewich  at  50s., 
and  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Cryndon  held  by  Thomas  Lyveden 
at  50s.  in  Bukinghamshire  ;  one  knight's  fee  in  Glaston  co.  Roteland 
held  by  Thomas  de  Haryngton  at  100s.  ;  two  knights'  fees  in  the 
manors  of  Haylesden,  Oxenedes,  Bernham,  Skeyton.  Sonderlond  in 
(sic)  Haryngby  sometime  held  by  Walter  de  Bernham  and  William 
Hauteyn  at  101.,  the  eighth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Burnham  now  held 
by  the  heirs  of  Ralph  de  Hemenale  at  12s.  6d.,  the  eighth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Burnham  held  by  Edmund  de  Reynham  knight  at 
12s.  6d.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Briston  held  by  John 
de  Briston  at  25s.,  the  eighth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Burnham 
held  by  the  heirs  of  John  de  Borgh  at  12s.  Od.  in  Norffolk ;  seven 
knights'  fees  in  the  manors  of  Letheryngham,  Cretyng,  Thorp  in  the 
parish  of  Hakeston,  Thuryngton  and  Shadenesfeud  held  by  Thomas 
Wj-nkefeld  and  sometime  of  William  de  Bovylle  at  35/.,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Reydon  and  Holton  sometime  of  Thomas  de  Merk  and  now 
held  by  Robert  de  Teye  knight  at  100s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Hadlegh  sometime  of  William  Laasham  and  now  held  it  is 
supposed  by  Helmyng  Leget  at  50s.,  and  one  knight's  fee  in  Stotton 
held  by  the  heirs  of  Saier  de  Creppyng  and  extended  at  100s.  a  year 
in  Suffolk  ;  and  a  third  part  of  the  barony  of  Penkethlyn  lordship 
in  the  march  of  Wales,  the  barony  being  extended  at  100  marks  a  year. 

To  John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Huntingdonshire  and  Bukingham- 
shire. Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  the  knights'  fees  and 
parts  of  fees  (above  mentioned)  in  Catteworth  co.  Huntingdon,  and  in 
Baldynghore,  Amondesham,  Querendon  and  Cryndon  co.  Bukingham. 


48   EDWARD   III. 


26 


1374.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

To  John  de  Weston  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Like  order 
to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of 
fees  (above  mentioned)  in  Havlesden,  Oxenedes,  Bernham.  Skeyton, 
Sonderlond  and  Haryngby,  Burnham,  Briston  and  in  Burnhara  co. 
Xorffolk  held  by  the  heirs  of  John  de  Burgh,  and  in  Letheryngham, 
Cretyng,  Thorp,  Thuryngton  and  Shadenesfeud  sometime  of  William 
de  Boville,  Reydon  and  Holton,  and  in  Hadlegh  co.  Suffolk,  (omit- 
ting the  knight's  fee  in  Stotton). 

To  Nicholas  Seymour  escheator  in  Roteland.  Like  order  to  deliver 
in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  one  knight's  fee  in  Glaston  (above  mentioned). 

May  10.  To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of  Wales 
Westminster,  adjoining.  Order  in  presence  of  the  next  friends  of  the  heirs  of  the 
said  Humphrey,  if  being  warned  they  will  attend,  to  make  a  partition 
of  the  barony  of  Penkethlyn  into  three  equal  parts,  and  to  deliver 
in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  a  third  part  thereof  which  the  king  has 
assigned  to  her,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Membrane  22. 

May  10.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower 
Westminster,  to  the  said  Joan  such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  advowsons  following 
which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  of  the  advowsons  of  abbeys,  priories, 
churches  and  chapels  which  were  her  said  husband's  and  are  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  namely  the  advowsons  of  Fobbyng 
church  co.  Essex  extended  at  20  marks  a  year,  of  Brekon  prior}'  at 
66/.  13s.  4c/.,  of  Lambilio  church  at  20  marks,  of  Maugan  church  at  20 
marks,  of  Beniak  church  at  20  marks,  of  Veynour  church  at  20  marks,  of 
Lankeneder  church  at  8/..  of  Caldecote  chapel  at  40s.  all  in  Hereford- 
shire and  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent  ;  of  Amondesham  church 
co.  Bukingham  at  20/.,  of  Thoresby  church  co.  Lincoln  at  20  marks,  of 
Luffenham  church  co.  Roteland  at  20  marks,  of  Lambourne  chapel  co. 
Berkes  at  60s.,  and  of  Wokeseye  chapel  co.  Wiltesir  extended  at  20s. 
a  year. 

To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of  Wales 
adjacent.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  the  advowsons 
of  Brekon  priory,  Lambilio  church,  Maugan  church,  Bernak  church, 
Veynour  church,  Lankeneder  church  and  Caldecote  chapel  extended 
(as  above),  which  among  others  the  king  has  assigned  to  her. 

To  John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Bukinghamshirc.  Like  order  to 
deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  theadvowson  of  Amondesham  church. 

To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order  to 
deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  the  advowson  of  Thoresby  church 
extended  at  20/.  a  year. 

To  Nicholas  Seymour  escheator  in  Roteland.  Like  order  to  deliver 
in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  the  advowson  of  Luffenham  church. 

To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltesir.  Like 
order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  the  advowsonfl  of  Lambourne 
chapel  and  Wokeseye  chapel. 


20  CALENDAB    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1374.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

To  Roger  Keterioh  escheatoi  in  Essex.  Like  order  to  deliver  in 
down'  to  the  said  Joan  the  advowson  of  Walden  abbey  extended  at 
40/.  a  year. 

Mi  morandum  that  Nottele  abbey  fell  to  the  said  countess  by  lot, 
but  Walden  abbey  was  assigned  to  her  in  lieu  thereof  by  the  king's 
order  dated  2S  April. 

June  6.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order,  if  assured 

Westminster,  that  the  lauds  in  Staynton  by  him  seized  into  the  king's  hand  are  the 
same  which  by  virtue  of  the  king's  command  were  delivered  to  Clement 
de  Skelton  and  Joan  his  wife,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle 
no  further  therewith,  delivering  to  the  said  Clement  and  Joan  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition, 
taken  by  Thomas  de  Musgrave  late  escheator,  that  by  grant  of  William 
late  baron  of  Craystok,  made  with  the  king's  licence,  Giles  de  Orreton 
deceased  held  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  by  Maud  his  wife  (like- 
wise deceased)  ten  messuages,  three  carucates  of  land,  20  acres  of  meadow 
and  12  acres  of  wood  in  the  town  of  Staynton  within  the  barony  of 
Greystok,  and  common  of  pasture  sufficient  for  all  his  neat  beasts 
and  those  of  his  men  now  or  hereafter  dwelling  upon  the  said  lands, 
that  the  premises  are  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  3s.  Qd. 
a  year  to  cornage  payable  in  the  exchequer  of  Carliol  by  the  hands  of 
the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  for  the  time  being,  and  that  Joan  daughter 
of  the  said  Giles  and  Maud,  whom  the  said  Clement  has  taken  to  wife, 
is  their  next  heir  and  of  full  age,  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty 
of  the  said  Clement  by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  the  said  Joan 
begotten,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  them  of  the  premises, 
as  appears  by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of  chancery  ;  and  now  on  behalf 
of  the  said  Clement  and  Joan  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  removal 
of  his  hand  from  divers  lands  in  Staynton,  which  the  escheator  has 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him 
taken  of  his  office,  that  the  said  Giles  died  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee  of  those  lands  which  contain  a  fourth  part  of  the  manor  of  Staynton, 
that  they  are  held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  that  after  his  death 
the  said  Clement  and  Joan  in  her  right,  being  daughter  and  heir  of 
the  said  Giles,  entered  the  same  without  the  king's  licence  and 
without  process  of  the  king's  court. 

March  10.  To  the  mayor,  recorder  and  aldermen  of  London.  Order  to  be 
Westminster,  before  the  council  at  Westminster  one  month  after  Easter  next,  which 
day  the  king  has  given  to  Robert  de  Hales  prior  of  the  Hospital  of 
St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  in  order  to  inform  the  council 
concerning  their  right,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  be 
by  the  council  appointed,  staying  meanwhile  the  process  begun  against 
the  said  prior  and  brother  John  Alemayn  his  fellow,  and  if  there  shall 
be  any  cause  wherefore  that  ought  not  to  be  done,  to  certify  the  same 
in  chancery  under  their  seals,  sending  again  this  writ ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  that  at  the  complaint  of  Ralph  de  Strode  common  Serjeant 
of  the  city  of  London,  averring  that  time  out  of  mind  there  was  a 
way  (chiminagium)  from  the  high  street  of  Fletestrete  to  the  river 
Thames  whereto  the  commonalty  of  the  city  ought  to  have  and  in 
times  past  used  to  have  entry  by  a  gate  called  Templegate  to 
Templebrigge  in  the  said  river  from  sunrise  to  sunset  for  carrying  their 
victuals  and  merchandise  to  and  fro  by  wains,  horses  and  otherwise 


48  EDWARD  III. 


27 


1374.  Membrane  22 — ami. 

at  their  pleasure,  and  likewise  by  night  at  the  request  of  every  free 
man  of  the  city  for  carrying  such  needful  things  except  for  carriage 
by  wains,  and  that  divers  men  of  the  city  were  by  the  said  prior  and 
brother  John  by  colour  of  closing  the  said  gate  divers  times  hindered 
from  carrying  victuals,  merchandise  and  other  things  needful  by  the 
said  way,  the  mayor,  recorder  and  aldermen  caused  the  prior  and 
brother  John  to  be  summoned  before  them  to  answer  touching  the 
premises  ;  and  the  king  considers  it  unreasonable  that  the  business 
should  be  debated  before  them  forasmuch  as  it  concerns  them  and 
their  commonalty,  especially  as  a  party  ought  not  to  be  judge  in  his 
own  cause,  judging  that  it  would  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  lords 
and  others  coming  to  parliament  and  to  the  council  if  the  said  bridge, 
which  is  appointed  for  their  advantage  and  easement  when  they 
will  there  come  to  their  barges  and  boats,  should  be  broken  by  casting 
stone  and  timber  thereupon,  and  it  is  his  will  that  for  the  causes  afore- 
said the  business  shall  be  debated  and  determined  before  the  council, 
where  justice  shall  speedily  be  done  as  well  to  the  mayor  etc.  as  to 
the  prior. 

April  15.  To  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  fleet  towards  the  west,  or  to 
Westminster,  his  lieutenant  in  the  port  of  Dertmuth,  and  the  mayor  and  bailiffs 
of  that  town.  Order,  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king  and 
council,  to  deliver  up  according  to  the  command  to  them  previously 
addressed  the  three  ships  of  Portugal  under  arrest  in  the  said  port, 
one  called  '  la  Seint  Croice  '  Stephen  Fraunceis  master,  another  '  de 
(sic)  Seint  Vincent  '  John  Bogayllo  master,  the  third  '  la  Seint  Antoijn  ' 
Salvador  Geans  master,  with  the  merchandise  therein  taken  if 
existing,  or  if  not  the  value  thereof,  the  livery  of  which  ships  and  goods 
the  king  at  another  time  by  writ  commanded  to  be  made,  provided 
nevertheless  that  the  sum  of  money  which  at  the  suit  of  John  Aubray 
the  king  commanded  to  be  kept  in  the  admiral's  hands  shall  remain 
in  the  admiral's  keeping  until  further  order. 

June  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues 
Westminster,  of  that  county  to  pay  to  John  de  Wydeford  the  arrears  of  4'/.  a  day 
from  4  December  in  the  41st  year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforward  to  pay 
him  that  daily  sum  as  the  same  used  to  be  paid  according  to  tin- 
king's  letters  patent,  taking  the  said  John's  acquittance  for  every 
payment ;  as  on  the  day  mentioned  of  his  favour  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  to  the  said  -John  the  keeping  of  his  manor  of  Claryndorj 
for  life,  taking  for  his  wages  4d.  a  day  of  the  issues  of  the  said  county 
by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  21. 

May  24.         To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order  to  cause  all  the  lands  aliened 

\\ •   tminstcr.  in  fee  by  William  de  Loghmaban  as  hereinafter  recited  to  he  taken 

into  the  king's  hand  and  safe  kept  until  Further  older,  answering  at 

the  exchequer  for  the  issues  thereoi  c  >rt  ifying  under  his  seal  in  ohancery 

how  he  has  executed  this  command,  and  sending  again  this  writ  :    as 

on  28  June  in  the  16th  year  of  his  reign  the  late  king  by  Letters  patent 

gave   to   the  said   William   and   his   heirs   lor  hi-  g I       irvioe  Certain 

lands  in  iilencogou,  w  Inch  were  of  William  le  Blount  knight  late  t  he         1 

king's  enemy  and  rebel  and  came  to  the  late  king's  hands  as  in  escheat, 


28  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1H74.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

to  hold  by  the  Bervice  of  tlie  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  rendering 
at  the  exchequer  of  Michaelmas  4  marks  a  year,  and  further  granted 
to  the  said  William  de  Loghmaban  and  to  his  heirs  the  remainder 
of  lands  in  the  said  town,  then  held  in  dower  by  Joan  who  was  wife 
of  John  le  Blount  with  reversion  after  her  death  to  the  king  as  an 
escheat  by  reason  of  the  forfeiture  of  William  le  Blount,  to  hold  with 
the  other  lands  by  the  service  aforesaid  without  making  sale  of  those 
lands,  waste  or  destruction  of  the  woods,  or  dispossession  of  the  men 
thereto  pertaining,  so  that  if  William  de  Loghmaban  or  his  heirs 
should  make  sale,  waste,  destruction  or  dispossession  as  aforesaid, 
it  should  be  lawful  for  the  said  king  and  his  heirs  again  to  take  all  the 
premises  into  their  hand  without  claim  of  the  said  grantee  to  the 
contrary  or  of  his  heirs  or  of  any  other  ;  and  Randolph  de  Dacre  has 
acknowledged  before  the  king  that  he  has  acquired  the  premises  of 
the  said  grantee  in  fee,  as  well  those  which  were  of  William  le  Blount 
as  those  which  the  said  Joan  held  in  dower. 

May  28.  To  the  proctors  and  ministers  of  John  cardinal  bishop  of  Sabina 
Westminster,  and  rector  of  Abburbury  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln.  Notice  that  they 
may  in  their  lord's  name  administer  and  freely  dispose  of  the  fruits, 
preventions  and  emoluments  of  the  said  church,  notwithstanding  the 
king's  presentation  of  William  de  Redenesse  his  clerk  thereto,  which 
the  king  revokes,  as  lately  by  letters  patent  the  king  made  that  pre- 
sentation believing  that  the  said  cardinal  was  dead  in  the  court  of 
Rome  and  that  thereby  the  church  was  void ;  but  the  king  has  learned 
of  a  truth  that  he  is  there  alive  and  well. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Feeder  a.] 

To  J.  bishop  of  Lincoln.  Order  to  suffer  the  proctors  and  ministers 
of  John  cardinal  bishop  of  Sabina  and  rector  of  Abburbury  in  their 
lord's  name  to  adiminster  and  freely  dispose  of  the  fruits,  preventions 
and  emoluments  of  that  church,  the  king's  presentation  to  the  same 
notwithstanding,  and  to  revoke  any  act  by  him  the  said  bishop  done 
touching  such  presentation  ;    as  latety  etc.  (as  above). 

[Ibid.] 

June  2.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.     Order  to  assign 

Westminster,  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and 
Essex  tenant  in  chief  dower  of  the  manor  of  Astcote,  sending  the 
assignment  to  be  enrolled  upon  the  rolls  of  chancery  ;  as  lately  at 
her  suit  averring  that  on  the  day  he  espoused  her  and  long  after  her 
said  husband  was  seised  of  that  manor  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and 
that  he  after  demised  the  same  to  Gilbert  Giffard  knight  for  life  with 
reversion  to  him  the  said  earl  and  his  heirs,  and  praying  that  dower 
should  be  assigned  her  of  the  same,  being  in  the  king's  hand  by  the 
said  Gilbert's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  earl's 
heirs,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  inquisition  ;  and  by 
inquisition  by  him  taken  at  the  king's  command  it  is  found  that  the 
said  earl  was  thereof  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  for  nine  years  after 
he  espoused  the  said  Joan,  that  after  he  demised  the  same  as  aforesaid, 
that  the  said  Gilbert  had  no  other  estate  therein,  and  that  the  said 
manor  is  worth  101.  a  year  in  all  issues. 


48  EDWARD  III. 


29 


1374. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 


June  6.  To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  cause 

minster.  Joan  daughter  of  John  Solers  to  have  seisin  of  her  purpartv  of  the 

lands  of  Alice  atte  Chaumbre  of  Weston  Underegge  kept  in  the  king's 

hand  ;  as  lately  on  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  by  Philip  de 
Lutteleye  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Alice  at  her  death  held  in  her 
demesne  as  of  fee  three  messuages,  2\  virgates  of  land  and  7  acres  of 
meadow  in  Weston  Underegge  in  chief  by  knight  service,  that  Sibyl 
Pope  one  of  her  sisters,  William  de  Acton  son  of  Katherinc  a  second 
sister,  Alice  de  Bentham,  Margery  de  Bentham  and  Elizabeth  de 
Bentham  daughters  of  Agnes  a  third  sister,  and  Joan  daughter  of 
John  Solers  son  of  Margery  a  fourth  sister  are  her  next  heirs,  and 
that  the  said  Sibyl,  William.  Alice  de  Bentham.  Margery  and  Elizabeth 
were  then  of  full  age.  and  the  said  Joan  of  the  age  of  6  years,  on  4  July 
in  the  37th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  respited  until  the  quinzaine  of 
.Michaelmas  then  next  the  homages  of  those  who  were  of  age,  and 
ordered  the  late  escheator  to  take  their  fealties,  to  take  of  them 
security  for  payment  of  their  reliefs  at  the  exchequer,  to  make  a 
partition  of  the  premises  into  four  equal  parts  in  their  presence  and 
in  presence  of  the  said  Joan's  next  friends,  if  being  warned  they  would 
attend,  and  to  cause  them  to  have  seisin  of  their  respective  purparties, 
namely  the  said  Sibyl  and  William  of  two  parts  as  two  of  the  deceased's 
heirs,  the  said  Alice  de  Bentham,  Margery  and  Elizabeth  of  one  part 
as  one  of  her  heirs,  and  to  keep  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order 
one  fourth  part  for  the  said  Joan's  purpartv  ;  and  the  said  Joan  has 
now  proved  her  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  her 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s. 

June  10.  To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Wynterbourne,  delivering  to  Edmund  de  Bradeston 
any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of 
Robert  de  Bradeston  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  by  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Bradeston  tenant  in  chief 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Thomas  son  of  Robert  de 
Bradeston  son  of  Thomas  de  Bradeston,  being  cousin  and  heir  of  the 
said  tenant  in  chief,  who  died  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship, 
the  said  manor  is  come  to  the  king's  hands,  that  by  fine  levied  in 
the  king's  court  Robert  Mordak  parson  of  Wynterbourne  and  Robert 
Coyne  parson  of  Somerford  Mauduyt  granted  the  said  manor  and 
advowson  to  the  said  Thomas  de  Bradeston  and  Agnes  his  wife  and 
to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue 
to  the  said  Robert  de  Bardeston  {sic)  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body, 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  John  de  Bardeston  (sic)  and  to 
the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  that  as  well  the  said  Thomas  de  Bradeston 
and  Agnes  as  the  said  Thomas  son  of  Robert  died  without  issue  male, 
wherefore  by  form  of  that  fine  the  premises  ought  to  remain  to  the 
said  Edmund  being  ><>n  and  heir  of  the  said  John  de  Bradeston,  and 
that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king  :  and  by  a  transcript 
of  the  said  fine,  which  the  king  caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery, 
it  is  found  thai   the  premises  were  entailed  in  the  form  aforesaid. 

June  13.        To  John  de  Broghtoo  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.     Order  to  take 

We  in.iii-t.-r.  the  fealty  of  Thomas  de  Barecourl  knight  according  to  the  form  of  ;i 

schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  ana  meddle  no  further 


CALENhM:     OK    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


L374.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

with  the  manor  of  Little  Lynford  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  John  Buttetourtj  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  John  at  Ins  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee.  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence 
held  the  said  manor  in  chief  jointly  with  Maud  his  wife  whom  the 
said  Thomas  has  taken  to  wife. 

June  lf>.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Hereford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Monemouth,  who  is  dead. 

June  15.  To  the  collectors  in  the  ports  of  Holkam,  Welles,  Blakeneye, 
Westminster.  Wyveton,  Claye,  Salthous,  Shiryngham  and  Croumere  of  the  subsidy 
of  6d.  in  the  pound.  Order,  upon  petition  of  the  fishers  of  those  towns, 
not  to  compel  them  to  pay  such  subsidy  upon  fish  taken  in  the  sea  and 
not  carried  out  of  the  realm,  nor  in  anywise  to  trouble  them  concerning 
the  same  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  the  collectors  are  purposing 
to  compel  them  to  pay  the  said  subsidy  upon  the  fish  so  taken  and  there 
brought  within  the  realm,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  it  was  not  nor 
is  it  the  intent  of  the  king  or  council  that  any  such  fishers  be  compelled 
so  to  do. 
[Feeder  a. } 

June  15.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to 
Westminster,  command  an  inquisition  which  remains  to  be  taken  before  them 
between  the  king  and  Simon  Lambourne  clerk  concerning  the 
presentation  to  the  precentorship  of  Exeter,  now  void  and  in  the 
king's  gift,  to  be  taken  before  one  of  the  justices  of  the  said  Bench 
or  before  the  justices  of  assize  appointed  in  Devon. 

June  20.  To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Dorset.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  40  acres 
of  land  in  Little  Kemerych,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken 
since  the  death  of  Thomas  Bridport ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
held  the  premises  of  others  than  the  king. 

June  18.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed 
Westminster,  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  command 
an  inquisition  whereupon  the  prior  of  Christ  Church  Canterbury  has 
put  himself  before  the  king  concerning  his  alleged  duty  to  repair  the 
highway  between  Branketre  and  Halstede  and  to  scour  a  ditch  by  the 
highway  between  Stistede  and  Coggeshale,  to  be  taken  before  them 
the  said  justices  or  one  of  them  or  before  one  of  the  justices  of  assize 
appointed  in  that  county  (sic). 

May  10.  To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  not  to  distrain 
Westminster.  William  son  and  heir  of  John  Coke  of  Belton,  otherwise  called  John 
del  Bothe  of  Belton,  to  do  his  homage  and  fealty  a  second  time,  releasing 
any  distress  upon  him  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  he  has  done  homage 
and  fealty  to  the  king  for  four  messuages,  eight  tofts,  one  bovate 
15  acres  of  land,  the  moiety  of  one  bovate  and  of  1  acre  of  land, 
and  for  two  thirds  of  one  toft  in  Belton  and  Epworth  which  he  holds 


4s   EDWARD   III.  31 


1374.  Membrane  21— coiit. 

in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  livery  whereof  the  king  has  commanded 
to  be  given  him  by  the  escheator.  By  p.s.  [30115.] 

Membrane  20. 

June  20.         To  Oliver  Harnharo  escheator  in  Wiltesir.     Order  to  take  of  Ela 
Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  son  of  Robert  de  Bradeston  knight  tenant  in 

chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in 
presence  of  Richard  Lescrope  knight  to  whom  the  king  has  committed 
the  wardship  of  her  said  husband's  lands  or  of  his  attorney,  if  being 
warned  he  will  attend,  to  assign  her  dower  of  those  manors  and  lands 
which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  her  husband's  death  and  by  reason  of 
the  nonage  of  Elizabeth  his  daughter  and  heir,  sending  the  assignment 
to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  John  Hamburv  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  to  assign 
dower  to  the  said  Ela,  of  whom  the  king  has  commanded  an  oath  to 
be  taken  by  Oliver  Harnham  [as  above). 

The  like  to  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex. 

The  like  to  John  ap  Rees  e'scheator  in  Gloucestershire. 

June  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.  Order  to  cause  Ralph  de  Langeton 
Westminster,  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  one  bovate  of  land  and  a  half  in 
Goldeburne  held  by  Adam  de  Goldeburne  outlawed  for  felony  it  is 
said  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff, 
that  the  premises  lime  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are 
yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  Adam  held  them  of  the  said  Ralph, 
and  that  William  de  Chorlegh  late  escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day 
and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

June  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  and  Sussex.  Order  to  cause  all  goods 
.  and  merchandise  which  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  he  may  be  assured 
were  taken  out  of  three  tarits  of  Catuloigne,  Genoa  (.J  a  una)  and  Naples 
at  la  live  and  brought  within  those  counties  to  be  arrested  wherever 
found  in  his  bailiwick  in  whose  hands  soever  within  liberties  and 
without,  the  liberty  of  the  Cinque  Ports  excepted,  and  at  his  peril  bo 
be  put  in  safe  keeping  as  shall  best  be  for  the  safety  thereof  until  by 
advice  of  the  council  the  king  shall  take  order  for  delivery  of  the  same  ; 
the  said  tarits  Laded  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise  were  lately 
taken,  arrested  and  brought  to  the  parts  of  la  Rye  by  the  king's 
subjects,  pretending  that  the  said  goods  and  merchandise  were 
enemies'  goods,  whereof  certain  are  taken  out  of  the  said  tarits  and 
removed  by  boats,  barges  and  otherwise  within  the  said  counties 
and  elsewhere,  as  the  king  has  learned:    and  by  advioe  of  the  council 

the  king's  will  is  to  make  provision  for  the  safety  thereof  until  he 
shall   be  informed  to  whom   the  same  ought   in   law    to   pertain. 

To  Walter  Leyeestre  and  .James  Lyons  the  king's  Serjeants  at    arms. 

Order  to  suffer  the  masters  or  owners  (patronos)  of  three  tarits  ol 
Catelogne,  Genoa  and  Naples  without  let  to  enter  the  same  and  to 
dis]  n<l  take  order  for  the  Bafety  thereof;    as  by  advice  of  the 

council  the  king  has  appointed  the  said  eithoul  delay  to 

arrest  and  put   in  safe  keeping  all  g Is  and  merchandise  laded  in  the 

k1  tarits  in  whose  hands  soever  the  -bail  be  found  on  land 

or 


32 


(ALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1374.  Membrane  20 — conl. 

June  26.         Order  to  t tie  sheriff  of  Surrey  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  Peter  Semer  of  Gildeford.  who  is  sick  and  aged. 

July  6.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  Thomas  Hore,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Like  order  to  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk  concerning  Robert  Gerveys. 

July  8.  To  the  escheator  in  Essex  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues 

Westminster,  of  the  manor  of  Farnham  by  Storteford  to  pay  to  John  de  Burgh 
knight  the  arrears  of  40  marks  of  yearly  rent  since  that  manor  with 
other  lands  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex  came 
to  the  king's  hands  by  the  earl's  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of 
his  heirs,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year  during 
his  life,  so  long  as  the  said  manor  shall  be  in  the  king's  hand  and  under 
the  escheator's  keeping,  taking  the  said  John's  acquittance ;  as 
lately  the  king  by  letters  patent  pardoned  him  the  trespass  he  com- 
mitted by  acquiring  of  the  said  earl  40  marks  of  yearly  rent  issuing 
from  the  said  manor,  which  is  held  in  chief,  and  by  taking  that  rent 
without  obtaining  the  king's  licence,  and  the  king  so  far  as  in  him 
la j7  granted  to  the  said  John  that  he  might  take  that  rent  for  life, 
distraining  in  the  said  manor  so  often  as  the  same  shall  be  in  arrear, 
without  occasion  or  hindrance  of  the  king  or  his  heirs,  their  justices, 
escheators,  sheriffs  or  other  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever. 
Et  erat  patens. 

July  8.  To  John  Foucher  escheator  in  Derbyshire.     Order  to  take  of  Cicely 

Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  John  Frecheville  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will 

not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower  of  her 

said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending 

the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

June  26.  To  the  abbot  of  Alnewyk.  Strict  order  upon  his  allegiance  and 
Westminster,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  forbidding  him  by  colour  of  any  command 
to  him  now  or  hereafter  addressed  by  the  abbot  superior  of  the  Pre- 
monstratensian  order  in  France  or  by  the  abbot  of  Salseed  in  Scotland 
to  subject  himself,  be  intendant  upon  or  in  anywise  obey  the  abbot 
of  Salseed,  his  commissaries  or  any  of  their  commands  in  their  visitations 
of  Alnewyk  abbey,  so  behaving  in  that  behalf  that  the  king  shall  have 
no  matter  for  wrath  against  him  as  a  violator  of  the  rights  of  his  crown ; 
as  the  king  has  heard  how  that  the  said  abbot  superior  has  appointed  the 
abbot  of  Salseed  shortly  to  visit  Alnewyk  abbey  in  England,  the  abbot 
and  canons  thereof,  and  to  do  other  things  unwonted  and  unheard  of  ; 
and  the  king  takes  note  that  if  this  be  suffered  prejudice  may  arise 
to  him  and  his  crown,  especially  as  no  such  things  were  in  times  past 
done  or  suffered  to  be  done  within  his  power  or  realm  by  the  king's 
enemies  or  at  their  command,  and  it  is  thought  probable  that  hereby 
the  said  abbey  may  be  charged  hereafter  with  grievous  and  unwonted 
impositions,  and  money  may  hereby  be  carried  over  from  the  realm 
to  his  enemies,  which  he  will  not  and  ought  not  to  endure. 

To  Henry  lord  de  Percy  warden  of  the  march  of  Scotland.  Order 
upon  his  allegiance,  forbidding  him  to  suffer  the  abbot  of  Salseed  in 
Scotland  or  his  commissaries  to  repair  to  Alnewyk  abbey  in  order  to 
make  a  visitation  there,  or  to  visit  the  same,  or  to  attempt  aught  within 


48    KDWAIll)    III.  33 


1374.  Membrane  20 — conl. 

the  realm  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown  :  as 
the  king  has  heard  how  that  the  abbot  superior  has  appointed  the 
abbot  of  Salseed  shortly  to  visit  the  said  abbey,  the  abbot  and  canons 
thereof  and  others  of  that  order  in  England  etc.  (as  above). 

Membrane  19. 

June  22.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Order  in  name  of  the 
Westminster,  king'  sloulship  to  take  a  simple  seisin  of  Wilton  abbey,  now  void  by 
the  death  of  Sibyl  Aucher  abbess  thereof,  and  not  to  meddle  with  that 
abbey  the  temporalities  or  possessions  thereof  by  reason  of  this 
vacancy,  but  straightway  to  withdraw  this  time  without  taking  aught 
to  the  king's  use,  suffering  the  prioress  and  nuns  thereof  to  have  the 
said  abbey,  temporalities  and  possessions  with  all  property  and  goods 
thereto  belonging  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent,  and  not 
troubling  or  grieving  them  in  aught,  but  saving  to  the  king  the  knights' 
fees,  advowsons  of  churches,  wards,  reliefs,  escheats  which  may  fall 
in  during  this  vacancy  :  as  lately  of  his  favour  and  affection  towards 
the  said  nuns,  and  for  60/.  by  the  said  Sibyl  paid  in  the  hanaper  of 
chancery,  the  king  granted  that  so  soon  as  the  abbey  should  be  void 
by  the  death,  cession  or  resignation  of  the  said  abbess,  the  prioress 
and  nuns  should  have  the  keeping  thereof  and  of  all  temporalities 
and  possessions  thereof  with  all  property  and  goods  thereto  belonging 
all  the  time  of  the  first  vacancy,  so  that  the  escheator  or  other  bailiff 
or  minister  of  the  king  whatsoever  should  not  meddle  with  the  same 
during  that  vacancy,  saving  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches, 
wards,  reliefs  and  escheats  which  might  then  fall  in. 

To  John  de  Mattesford  escheator  in  Devon  and  Cornwall.     Like 
order  not  to  meddle  with  the  said  abbey  etc. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent. 

Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset. 

July  1.  To  William  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 

Westminster.  Cinque  Ports  or  to  his  lieutenant  in  the  port  of  Sandewich,  and  to  the 
mayor  and  bailiffs  of  that  town,  also  to  William  Eyrmyn  and  John 
de  Haytfeld  the  king's  clerks.  Order  to  deliver  by  indentures  to 
John  de  Hedyngham,  attorney  of  divers  merchants  of  Genoa  (Janua) 
of  the  king's  friendship  by  them  specially  deputed  in  that  behalf, 
to  be  brought  safely  to  London  with  assent  of  the  said  merchants,  all 
goods  and  merchandise  of  theirs  now  under  arrest  in  that  port  in  a 
tarit,  Basil  Lomelvn  master,  lately  taken  at  sea  and  brought  thither. 
Proviso  that  by  colour  of  this  command  no  enemies'  goods  be  delivered 
up,  but  that  such  goods  be  safe  kept  to  the  king's  use  and  the  use  of 
those  to  whom  they  pertain. 

July  8.         To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  take  the 

u .  M  i,  i •t.  fealty  of  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  Gilbert  Gyffard  knight  according 
to  the  form  of  a  Behednle  enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  tier  the  manor 
of  la  Kyngeshome  by  Gloucestre  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her 
husband's  death,  and  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but   to  remove  the 

king's    hand    and    meddle    no    further    with    divers   other   manors   and 

lands  held  of  others  than  the  king,  delivering  to  her  anj  issues  thai 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  bj  the  escheator, 

i  r  :» 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1874. 


Membrane  1!) — covt. 


July  3. 
t  minster. 


that  the  said  Gilbert  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  of  her  right  and  heritage  held  the 
said  manor  in  chief  by  (he  service  of  keeping  the  door  of  the  king's 
pantry  on  his  coronation  day,  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands 
not  held  of  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has  respited  her  homage  until 
Michaelmas  next. 

To  William  Latymer  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent,  or  to 
his  representative  in  the  forest  of  Ingelwode.  Order,  if  Richard 
de  Salkeld,  John  de  Salkeld,  Roger  de  Hornby,  John  de  la  Kechene, 
William  Broun,  John  de  Sutton  and  William  Robynson,  taken  and 
imprisoned  in  Karliol  prison  for  a  trespass  of  vert  and  venison  in  the 
said  forest  for  which  they  are  indicted,  shall  find  every  of  them  twelve 
true  men  of  the  keeper's  bailiwick  who  shall  mainpern  to  have  them 
before  the  justices  in  eyre  for  pleas  of  the  forest  in  Cumberland  at 
their  next  coming  to  those  parts  in  order  to  stand  to  right  concerning 
that  trespass,  to  deliver  them  in  bail  to  the  said  men,  if  replevisable 
according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest,  bringing  there  the  mainpernors' 
names  and  this  writ. 

The  like  to  the  said  keeper  in  favour  of  Thomas  Bounes,  John  de 
Huton,  Henry  Daweson,  Thomas  Penryth  and  William  Sharpparwe. 

July  8.  To  Roger  Keterych  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  cause  James  de 

W<  -tiiiiii-tcr.  Barewe,  son  and  heir  of  Maud  Coleman  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin 

of  the  lands  of  his  said  mother  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death  ; 

as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken 

his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30177.] 

July  fi.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  to  cause  John  de  Hevenyngham 

Westminster,  knight  to  have  seisin  of  a  toft  and  20  acres  of  land  in  Little  Totham 
held  by  John  Pilcher  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have 
been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the 
said  John  Pilcher  held  them  of  the  said  knight,  and  that  Roger  de 
Wolfreston  late  escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof, 
and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 


Membrane  18. 

June  12.  To  all  and  singular  the  king's  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers 
v.  i  -t minster,  and  other  lieges  to  whom  etc.  Order  to  suffer  all  the  men  who  are 
tenants  of  the  honour  of  Huntindon  without  let  to  use  and  enjoy  all  the 
liberties  and  quittances  granted  by  king  Henry  III  according  to  his 
letters  patent,  and  as  they  ought  and  they  and  their  ancestors  tenants 
of  that  honour  have  ever  hitherto  been  wont  to  use  and  enjoy  the  same 
since  the  grant  aforesaid  ;  as  the  said  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to 
John  then  earl  of  Cestre  and  Huntingdon  that  he  and  his  heirs  should 
have  all  liberties  which  his  predecessors  the  earls  of  Huntindon  had  in 
times  of  former  kings,  namely  that  he,  his  heirs  and  men  being  tenants 
of  the  said  honour  in  whatsoever  counties  or  bailiwicks  should  have 
their  lands  with  sok  and  sak,  '  thol '  and  '  theam,'  '  infangenethef '  and 
'  utfangenethef,'  in  Avood  and  plain,  ways  and  paths,  meadows  and 
feedings,  waters,  mills,  ponds,  fish  ponds,  fisheries  and  all  other  places 
and  properties  thereto  pertaining  free  and  quit  of  toll,  pontage,  passage, 


4S    KDWAIll)    III 


1374.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

pedage,  paage,  stallage  and  tallage,  of  shirrs  and  hundreds,  suits  of 
shires  and  hundreds,  aids  of  sheriffs  and  Berjeants,  of  gelds,  danegeld 
and  hidage,  of  '  blodwite,'  '  ferdwite  '  and  '  fichewite,'  of  murder  and 
of  moneys  to  murder  pertaining,  of  forest  waste,  assart,  ward  (guardo) 
and  regard,  of  works  of  castles,   walls,  ditches,   parks,   bi  md 

causeways,  and  of  every  secular  custom  and  demand  and  every  servile 
work,  that  they  should  take  dry  [wood  and|  green  (aiccum  viride*) 
in  their  woods  at  will  wherever  they  should  he  without  view  and  Livery 
of  the  foresters,  that  their  woods  should  be  in  their  own  keeping,  and 
that  the  said  earl  and  his  heirs  should  have  their  hay  of  Gerdeley 
and  their  brushwood  of  Barthonand  Dudyngton  quit  and  tree  to  sell  and 
give  to  whomsoever  they  would  dealing  therewith  at  their  pleasure, 
and  should  have  their  venison  and  warren  therein,  warranting  a  way 
even'where  in  that  honour  to  whomsoever  they  would. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[See  Calendar  of  Charter  Bolls,  iii.  p.  281.] 

June  18.  To  Richard  de  Foxton  escheator  in  Warwickshire.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  William  Prylly  to  have  livery  of  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of 
Mancestre  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  (5  October  in 
the  41st  year  of  the'  reign  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the 
king's  command  by  John  Bernard  late  escheator.  that  Guy  de  Mancestre 
knight  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  by  knight  service  of 
the  countess  of  Pembroch  ;  that  Margaret  one  of  his  daughters. 
Geoffrey  de  Brokushole  son  of  Juliana  a  second  daughter,  both  of  full 
age,  and  the  said  William  son  of  Lucy  his  third  daughter,  being  within 
age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  were  his  next  heirs,  and  that  a  third 
part  of  the  said  manor  was  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the 
lands  of  Peter  Prjdly  tenant  in  chief,  which  came  to  the  king's  hands 
by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Hugh  his  son  and  heir, 
who  died  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  of  the  non 
of  the  said  William  brother  and  heir  of  the  said  Hugh,  and  is  yet 
in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  on  6  October  aforesaid  the  said  William's 
age  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  commanded  livery 
to  be  given  him  of  the  lands  which  came  to  the  king's  hand. 


June  28.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order  to 
Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  all  the  lands 
hereinafter  mentioned  in  Schafthowe  and  .Middelton  Biorell,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator 
to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  lands  of  Robert  de 
Aukeland  vicar  of  licit  lairne  there  were  by  William  de  Ergum  late 
Cheator  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  the  description  and  s  due 
thereof,  and  he  certified  that  the  said  William  delivered  to  him  by 
indenture  100  acres  of  land  and  meadow  in  Shaft  how  e.  averring  that 
they  were  in  the  king's  hand  for  that  he  found,  by  inquisition  taken  ot 
his  Office,  that   the  ira  of  John  de  Shafthowe  founded  a  chantry 

in  Shafthowe  chapel,  giving  »<»  the  same  the  land  and  meadow  afore- 
said, to  find  a  chaplain  celebrating  divine  tei  ice  tor  ever  tor  the 
king's  soul,  the  souls  of  his  an-  and  <»f  the  ancestors  ot   the 

Shafthowee  [dt  lex  Shafthowe*),  and  that  the  -aid  chantry  extended  at 

♦  In  tli.-  Charter  K<>U  tiooum  <i  v< 


CALENDAB    OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


]37  \  Membrane  18 — cont. 

SO*,  a  year  is  long  timo  withdrawn  ;  also  that  60  acres  of  land  and 
meadow  in  Middelton  Morell  are  in  the  king's  hand  for  that  the  ancestors 
of  the  lord  of  Middelton  Morell  founded  a  chantry  in  the  chapel  of 
Middelton  Morell.  giving  to  the  same  the  land  and  meadow  aforesaid, 
to  find  a  chaplain  celebrating  divine  service  for  ever  for  the  king's 
soul,  the  souls  of  his  ancestors  and  of  the  said  lord  and  his  ancestors, 
and  that  this  chantry  extended  at  20-9.  a  year  is  long  time  withdrawn  ; 
and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 

July  3.  To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  deliver  to 

Westminster.  William  Boneville  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Stapelton  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Sibyl  who  was  wife  of  Robert  Seintclere, 
together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  to  remove  the  king's  hand 
and  meddle  no  further  with  other  lands  held  of  others  than  the  king, 
delivering  to  the  said  William  the  issues  of  these  taken  since  her  death  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  the  said  Sibyl  at  her 
death  held  that  third  part  in  chief  for  her  life,  with  remainder  to 
Richard  Seintclere  and  Margaret  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  heirs  to  the  said  William  and  his 
heirs,  and  held  divers  other  lands  of  others  than  the  king  likewise  for 
life  with  remainder  as  aforesaid,  and  that  the  said  Richard  and  Mar- 
garet are  dead  without  an  heir  of  their  bodies,  wherefore  the  premises 
ought  by  virtue  of  the  said  fine  to  remain  to  the  said  William  and 
to  his  heirs  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.       By  p.s. 


July  5.  To  all  and  singular  the  king's  bailiffs  and  ministers  within  the  realm 

Westminster,  to  whom  etc.  Order  not  to  distrain  the  men  of  the  manors  of 
Modyngham  and  Wolwych,  which  are  of  the  ancient  demesne  of  the 
crown,  for  payment  of  toll  upon  their  goods  and  property,  contrary  to 
the  custom  of  the  realm  heretofore  kept  and  approved  that  men  of 
the  ancient  demesne  of  the  crown  are  and  ought  to  be  quit  of  such 
payment  throughout  the  realm,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that 
cause. 
[Feeder  a.] 

Jul}'  11.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order,  if  proceedings  have  been 
Westminster,  taken  before  them  as  hereinafter  rehearsed,  to  proceed  further  in  a 
plea  of  dower  brought  by  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  William  de 
Ferrariis  of  Groby  knight  against  Henry  de  Ferrariis  and  Joan  his 
wife,  doing  justice  to  the  parties,  certain  allegations  of  the  defendants 
notwithstanding  ;  as  on  the  plaintiff's  behalf  it  is  shewn  the  king 
that  she  is  suing  against  them  for  dower  of  a  freehold  in  Lutterworth 
which  was  her  husband's,  that  by  reason  of  default  made  by  the  said 
Henry  the  said  Joan  craved  to  be  admitted  to  defend  her  right  therein, 
that  being  so  admitted  she  vouched  to  warranty  Henry  son  and  heir 
of  the  said  William,  a  minor  whose  lands  are  in  the  king's  hand,  craving 
that  further  proceedings  should  not  be  taken  in  that  cause  without 
advising  the  king,  that  the  plaintiff  thereto  alleging  that  the  said 
vouchee  is  the  same  person  as  the  defendant  Henry,  who  has  already 
made  default,  craved  judgment  whether  the  said  Joan  ought  without 
special  cause  to  be  admitted  hereto,  that  thereupon  the  said  Joan 
averred  that  the  said  William  was  seised  of  the  said  manor  in  his 


1-    EDWARD    111.  37 


1374.  Membrane  18 — caul. 

demesne  as  of  fee,  that  by  writing  he  granted  and  demised  the  Bame 
to  John  bishop  of  Lincoln,  Robert  de  U fiord  late  carl  of  Suffolk,  Ralph 
Basset  of  Sapcote,  John  de  Cavendissh,  Edmund  de  Stebbyng  clerk, 
Simon  Pakeman,  Richard  de  Leycestre,  Robert  de  Bradenham,  Alan 
de  Sutton  and  Thomas  de  Warsop  tor  their  lives,  that  the  said  carl 
died,  that  after  the  said  bishop,  Ralph,  Edmund,  Richard.  Alan  and 
Thomas  by  writing  produced  made  a  grant  and  quitclaim  of  all  their 
estate  therein  to  the  said  John  de  Cavendissh,  Simon  and  Robert, 
that  the  said  William  for  himself  and  his  heirs  made  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  of  the  said  manor,  being  in  their  seisin,  to  the  said  John, 
Simon  and  Robert,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  that  the  said  John  de 
Cavendissh  after  released  his  right  therein  to  the  said  Simon  and  Robert 
and  to  their  heirs,  that  by  a  fine  after  levied  in  the  king's  court  before 
the  said  justices  the  said  Simon  and  Robert  granted  the  said  manor  to 
the  said  Henry  and  Joan  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  so 
as  the  assignee  of  the  said  Simon  and  Robert  the  said  Joan  has  vouched 
the  said  Henry  as  son  and  heir  of  the  said  William,  being  a  minor  whose 
lands  are  in  the  king's  hand,  craving  that  no  proceedings  be  taken  in  that 
cause  without  advising  the  king,  shewing  also  that  by  colour  thereof 
the  said  justices  have  deferred  hitherto  so  to  proceed  and  do  yet  defer, 
wherefore  the  plaintiff  has  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will 
that  justice  be  not  deferred  for  her. 

July  11.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Writ  of  aid,  directing  him  at  his  peril, 

Westminster,  notwithstanding  any  liberties  or  ecclesiastical  privileges,  without 
delay  to  take  and  arrest  all  and  singular  as  well  men  of  religion  as 
beneficed  persons  and  stipendiaries  whatsoever  dwelling  within  the 
diocese  and  county  of  Lincoln,  exempt  and  not  exempt,  who  shall  refuse 
to  pay  the  portions  falling  upon  them  of  the  subsidy  of  50,000J.  lately 
granted  to  the  king  by  the  prelates  and  clergy  of  the  realm  in  aid  of  the 
expenses  he  will  have  to  bear  for  the  safety  of  the  realm,  and  who  shall  be 
rebellious  herein  to  the  bishop  of  Lincoln  or  his  ministers  and  deputies, 
whose  names  the  bishop  shall  denounce  to  him,  with  all  speed  con- 
pelling  them  by  distraint,  imprisonment  and  otherwise  as  he  shall 
think  best  to  pay  the  portions  at  which  he  shall  by  the  bishop's 
certificate  be  assured  that  they  are  assessed,  and  aiding  the  said  bishop, 
his  ministers  and  deputies,  in  the  levy  of  the  said  subsidy  whenever 
by  them  or  any  of  them  required  ;  as  the  king  has  information  that 
great  number  of  men  of  religion  and  other  beneficed  persons  and 
stipendiaries  of  that  diocese  duelling  in  that  county,  fearing  not  the 
bishop's  censures  but  despising  the  keys  of  the  church,  have  Openly 
refused  and  do  refuse  to  pay  the  portions  at  which  they  are  assessed, 
wherefore  without  the  aid  of  the  secular  arm  that  Bubsidy  may  not  be 
levied,  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  lay  to  his  hand  and  apply  a  remedy, 
in  consideration  that  such  rebellion  tends  not  only  to  harm  the  liberty 
of  the  church  but  also  to  open  contempt  of  tin;  king's  majesty. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  sheriff  of  Leycestre. 

The  sheriff  of  Roteland. 

The  sheriff  of  Norhampton. 

The  sheriif  of  Oxford. 

The  sheriff  of  Bukingham  and  Bedford. 

The  sheriff  of  Huntingdon. 

The  sheriff  of  Hertford. 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


L874.  Membrane  17. 

July  17.  To  Kii-lia id  de  Radeclif  the  younger  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order 

taninater.  to  cause  Thomas  de  Metham  knight  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  to  have 
seisin  of  a  rent  of  20  marks  a  year  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Thomas  de  Stapelton  tenant  in  chief;  as  on  6  December 
last  t  he  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Thomas  de  Metham, 
who  took  to  wife  Elizabeth  sister  and  heir  of  Thomas  Stapelton,  by 
reason  of  issue  between  them  begotten,  and  commanded  livery  to  be 
given  them  of  the  lands  of  Thomas  de  Stapelton  ;  and  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator  at  the  king's  command,  that 
Edmund  Laurence  holds  for  life  the  manor  of  Esshton  and  three 
carueates  of  land  in  the  towns  of  Assheton  and  Scotford  in  Lonesdale 
by  demise  of  Nicholas  de  Stapelton  knight  grandfather  of  the  said 
Thomas  de  Stapelton,  rendering  yearly  to  Thomas  de  Stapelton  and 
his  heirs  20  marks  at  Whitsuntide  and  Martinmas  by  even  portions, 
that  Thomas  de  Stapelton  died  seised  of  that  rent  and  of  the  reversion 
of  the  said  manor  and  land,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than 
the  king. 

July  26.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton  and  in 

Westminster.  Berkshire.  Order  to  cause  Miles  son  of  James  son  of  Richard  de 
Wyndesore  tenant  in  chief,  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  Richard,  to 
have  seisin  of  his  said  grandfather's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
bjT  his  death  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and 
the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30194.] 

To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Middlesex.  Like  order,  as 
Miles  son  of  James  son  of  Richard  de  Wyndesore  has  proved  his  age 
before  Oliver  de  Harnham.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ), 

July  6.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Roger  de  Elinrugge 
and  John  de  Baldyngdon  keepers  of  the  priory  of  St.  Frideswide 
Oxford  or  the  canons  thereof  for  levy  of  the  three  years'  tenth  lately 
granted  by  the  clergy  of  England  to  the  king's  use  by  reason  of  the 
lands  and  possessions  of  the  priory  in  the  keeping  of  the  said  Roger 
and  John  so  long  as  they  shall  have  the  keeping  thereof,  discharging 
and  acquitting  at  the  exchequer  as  well  the  said  keepers  as  the  sheriff 
of  Oxford,  and  releasing  any  distress  for  that  cause  made  upon  the 
goods  or  chattels  of  the  priory  ;  as  the  king  has  committed  to  the 
said  Roger  and  John  the  keeping  of  the  said  priory  and  all  lands  and 
possessions  thereto  belonging  to  hold  so  long  as  the  same  shall  remain 
in  the  king's  hand,  so  that  they  shall  answer  to  the  king  for  the  issues 
thereof  arising  so  long  as  they  shall  have  the  keeping  thereof. 

Membrane  16. 

July  3.  To   the   sheriff   of   Worcester.     Order   by   assent   of   the   city   of 

Westminster.  Worcester  to  cause  a  coroner  of  that  city  to  be  elected  instead  of 
Simon  Poche  of  Worcester,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  17.         To  Geoffrey  de  Dersham  steward  of  the  honour  of  Rayleye.     Order 

Westminster,  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  marsh 

called  Rousande  in  Hadele  co.  Essex,  if  in  the  king's  hand  for  the 

reason  hereinafter  rehearsed  and  for  none  other,  delivering  to  Edward 

de  Wodham  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;    as  lately  at  his  suit,  averring 


18    EDWARD    III. 


1374.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

that  he  and  all  his  ancestors  nine  out  of  mind  were  ever  hereto! 
seised  by  right  of  inheritance  of  the  said  marsh,  and  that  aevertheL 

the  same  is  seized  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  a  gift  to  the  king  of 
certain  lands  in  the  town  of  lladele  made  by  one  Roger  de  Aatwyk, 
although  at  the  time  of  the  gift  or  at  any  other  the  said  Roger  nevei 
had  au\  I  Btate  in  the  said  marsh,  as  he  has  acknowledged  in  chancery, 
and  praying  restitution,  the  king  by  writ  commanded  the  steward  to 
make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  his  bailiwick  and  to  certify  him 
touching  the  premises  ;  and  by  inquisition  so  taken  it  is  found  that 
at  the  time  of  his  gift  to  the  king  by  charter  of  feoffmenl  the  said  Roger 
^  had  nought  in  the  .said  marsh  in  the  town  of  Haddele,  nor  at  any  former 
time  had  he  or  his  ancestors  any  estate  therein,  but  that  the  said 
Edward  and  all  his  ancestors  were  thereof  seised  time  out  of  mind. 

Memorandum  that  this  matter  was  shewed  and  declared  to  tic- 
king's Serjeants  being  in  the  chancery,  to  shew  cause  for  the  king 
wherefore  the  said  marsh  ought  not  to  be  delivered  out  of  the  king's 
hand,  who  could  answer  nought  thereto;  therefore  the  above  writ 
was  made. 

July  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.     Order  of  the  king's  favour  to  restore 

Westminster,  to  Geoffrey  Rokele  clerk,  unless  he  was  a  fugitive,  his  goods  and 
chattels  and  his  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  ;  as  Lately  before 
John  de  Moubray  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  deliver  the 
gaol  of  Oxford  castle,  he  was  indicted  for  the  alleged  robbery  of  two 
horses,  two  saddles  and  10s.  of  a  servant  of  a  certain  scholar  of  Oxford 
in  the  fields  of  Torsmere  in  the  month  of  July  1368,  and  was  after 
by  the  said  justices  delivered  as  usual  to  John  bishop  of  Lincoln 
the  ordinary  at  his  request  according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  and 
has  purged  his  innocence  of  that  crime  before  the  said  ordinary,  as 
the  bishop  has  signified  to  the  king. 

The  like  to  Oliver  de  Hernham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire. 

Aug.  5.  To  Th.  bishop  of  Exeter.     Order  to  sequestrate  all  fruits  for  this  year 

Westminster,  arising  from  the  archdeaconry  of  Exeter,  and  to  keep  them  safe  under 
sequestration  so  that  no  man  lay  hands  upon  them  until  further  order  ; 
as  lately  when  a  plea  was  pending  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
between  the  king,  the  said  bishop  and  cardinal  Peter  de  Everuio, 
then  incumbent  of  the  said  archdeaconry  it  is  said,  that  the  bishop 
should  -utter  the  king  to  present  to  the  said  archdeaconry,  it  was 
determined  that  the  king  should  recover  the  presentation  thereto. 
wherefore  the  king  in  his  own  right  collated  Thomas  Swaby  clerk  ; 
and  after  by  his  proctor  the  said  cardinal  petitioned  the  king  to  grant 
that  he  might  by  his  proctor  declare  before  those  of  the  council  learned 
in  the  law  or  elsewhere  at  the  kings  pleasure  the  title  which  he  had 
in  the  said  archdeaconry,  and  to  cause  justice  to  be  done  him.  foras- 
much  as  that   judgment   was  rendered   by  default    without   warning  t<> 

him  or  In-  proctor,  they   being  without   knowledge  of  tli.u    prop 
protesting  that  he  was  willing  to  submit  to  the  award  of  the  kii 
court,  and  in  consideration  ot  the  premises  the  king  caused  tin-  Baid 
Thomas  to  he  summoned  to  he  before  him  m  ohanoery  and  to  Bhew 
forth  the  king's  right  to  presenl  ;    and  it  Beems  not  yel  good  to  the 
king's  court  to  proceed  to  judgment  touching  matt<  forth  and 

alleged  on  either  Bide  without  much  deliberation,  and  il  bsjfche  kit 
will  that  while  the  business  i    pending  without  debate  the  fruit-  of 


LO 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


L87  I. 


Membrane  16 — cont. 


the  said  archdeaconry  shall  not  be  withdrawn  or  squandered,  but 
shall  be  preserved  wholly  to  the  use  of  him  to  whom  possession  thereof 
shall  be  adjudged. 

Aug.  0.  To  Adam  atte  More  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  deliver  to 

nun-tor.  John  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Keynes  tenant  in  chief  80  acres  of 
pasture  in  Cheliton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John 
Burnell  of  Chilton  and  by  reason  of  his  nonage,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken  since  13  January  last,  saving  to  the  king  the  issues 
from  John  Burnell's  death  to  the  aforesaid  date  ;  as  on  that  day  the 
age  of  the  said  John  son  of  Thomas  being  proved  the  king  took  his 
homage  and  fealty  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said 
lather's  lands  ;  and  now  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  John  Burnell,  who  died  on  Thursday  after  St.  James 
the  Apostle  in  the  45th  year  of  the  reign,  held  the  said  pasture  for 
life  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  John  son  of  Thomas,  that  by  reason 
of  his  nonage  William  Cheyne  late  escheator  seized  the  same  into  the 
king's  hand,  that  he  and  Edmund  Cheyne  afterwards  escheator  took 
the  issues  and  profits  thereof,  and  that  it  is  held  of  others  than  the 
king. 

April  8.  To  Simon  Warde  steward  and  keeper  of  the  castle  and  lordship  of 

Westminster.  Okham  co.  Roteland.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  said  castle  and 
lordship  to  pay  by  indenture  to  John  de  Multon  of  Manton  and  John 
atte  Hyde  of  Egelton  from  time  to  time  when  need  be  as  well  10/.  a 
year  for  repair  of  the  houses,  walls  and  buildings  of  the  said  castle' 
as  the  moneys  which  shall  be  laid  out  upon  palings  for  160  acres  of 
the  enclosure  of  Fliterys  park,  taking  their  acquittance  for  such  pay- 
ments ;  as  by  letters  patent  the  king  has  appointed  them  jointly  and 
severally  to  repair  during  pleasure  the  said  houses  etc.  up  to  10/.  a 
year,  and  to  cause  the  said  paling  to  be  made  of  the  king's  timber 
within  the  forest  of  Roteland  of  trees  there  growing  by  view  and 
testimony  of  William  Flore  of  Okham  the  king's  controller  there. 

Aug.  20.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Wynchelse.  Order  to 
Westminster,  them  and  every  of  them  at  their  peril  to  restore  to  Francis  Rigau, 
attorney  of  certain  merchants  of  Cateloigne  or  subjects  of  the  king  of 
Aragon  who  are  of  the  king's  friendship,  all  and  singular  the  goods 
and  merchandise  lately  taken  at  sea  in  a  ship  of  Seynt  Maylorq'  called 
'  Seynt  Antoyne  Seynt  Vyncent  '  and  in  other  ships  or  vessels  of  the 
said  merchants,  suffering  them  freely  to  take  the  same  whither  they 
will  without  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the  king's  use,  provided 
the  said  goods  be  not  exposed  for  sale  by  the  said  merchants. 


Membrane  15. 

Aug.  14.  To  the  keeper,  bailiff  or  farmer  of  the  manor  of  Wykes  co.  Essex 
Westminster,  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay  to  Robert 
filz  Rauf  the  arrears  since  the  death  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of 
Hereford,  Essex  and  Northampton  and  constable  of  England  of  40  marks 
a  year,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year  during 
his  life  so  long  as  the  said  manor  shall  be  in  the  king's  hand,  taking 
his  acquittance  ;  as  lately  in  his  life  time  the  said  earl  gave  by  letters 
patent  to  the  said  Robert,  then  his  yeoman,  a  yearly  rent  of  40  marks 


4*    KDWARD    III.  41 


1374.  Membram    L5 — con1. 

for  life  to  be  taken  of  the  said  manor  at  .Michaelmas  and  Easter  by 
even  portions,  and  on  14  May  in  the  47th  year  of  Ins  reign  the  king 
of  his  favour  granted  by  Letters  patent  that  although  by  the  death 
the  said  earl,  being  a  tenant  in  chief,  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of 
his  heirs  the  said  manor  is  in  the  king's   hand,   in  accordance   with 
the  said  gift  the  said  Robert  by  himself  and  his  assigns  should  have 
and  take  during  his  life  those  40  marks  a  year  as  aforesaid  by  I 
hands  of  the  keepers,  bailiffs  or  farmers  thereof  so  long  as  the  same 
shall  be  in  the  king's  hand. 
El  erat  patens. 

Aug.  23.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  the  city 
Westminster,  of  London.  Order  to  suffer  John  Pyel  or  his  deputies,  by  indenture 
to  be  from  time  to  time  duly  made  when  the  same  shall  there  be 
cocketed,  to  levy  and  have  25s.  of  every  sack  of  wool  which  shall 
henceforth  be  cocketed  in  the  port  of  London  to  be  taken  to  foreign 
parts,  and  of  hides  and  woolfells  in  proportion,  until  he  shall  be  fully 
contented  of  10,000/.,  and  further  to  deliver  to  him  or  them  one  part 
of  the  cocket  seal  there  in  the  collectors'  keeping,  expressly  forbidding 
any  wool,  hides  or  woolfells  to  be  laded  in  that  port  or  thence  taken 
to  any  parts  without  [being  sealed  with]  the  part  so  delivered  as  well 
as  with  the  part  remaining  in  the  collectors'  hands  ;  as  the  king  is 
bound  to  Richard  Lyouns  and  John  Pyel  in  10,000/.  to  be  taken  of  the 
customs  and  subsidies  in  the  said  port,  namely  of  every  sack  of  wool 
so  cocketed  25s.  and  of  hides  and  woolfells  in  proportion,  as  in  his 
letters  patent  is  contained. 
Et  erat  hoc  breve  tanium  patens. 

The  like  to  the  following,  for  livery  to  the  said  Richard  of  the  sums 
mentioned  : 

The  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Kymgeston 

upon  Hull,  5,000/. 
The  collectors  in  the  port  of  St.  Botolph,  4,000/. 
The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Great  Jernemuth,  1,000  marks. 
The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Gippewich,  500  marks. 

Membrane  14. 

Aug.  30.  To  Philip  de  Courtenaye  admiral  of  the  fleet  from  the  mouth  of  the 
\\  ■  -tminstcr.  Thames  westward.  Order,  for  particular  causes  now  laid  before  the  king 
and  council,  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  John  Aubrey  and  William 
Baret  merchants  of  the  city  of  London,  or  to  Henry  hlond  and  William 
Clerk  of  Dertemuth  their  attorneys,  the  sum  of  232/.  lis.  Sd.  by  the 
said  admiral  or  one  of  them  (Sic)  arrested  by  virtue  of  the  kii 
command  hereinafter  rehearsed,  to  be  brought  as  speedily  as  may  l>e 
before  the  king  and  council  at  Westminster  in  order  that  the  king 
may  there  by  advice  of  the  council  take  order  what  shall  therewith  l>e 
done;  as  on  8  February  last  order  was  by  the  council  taken  thai 
great  number  of  ships  of  Portugal  by  the  admiral  lately  arrested 
should  be  dearrested  with  the  merchants,  masters  and  seamen,  the 

merchandise    and    other    property    therein    found,    and    that    the    >.ud 
merchants,    masters  and   seamen   should    be   Buffered    therewith   to  go 

their  way;   but   for  that  the  said  John  and  William  Baret,  appearing 

in     person      before     the      council,      after     made     oath      that      divi 
merchandise  and  goods  of  theirs  to  the  \ahie  aforesaid  hi  i'   arrested 
and  kept  under  arrest  in  Portugal,  bhe  king  commanded  the  admiral 


42 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE   ROLLS. 


[374,  Membrane  14 — cont. 

to  take  and  keep  in  his  hands  under  arrest  2321.  lis.  Sd.  of  the 
merchandise  and  property  of  the  said  merchants,  masters  and  seamen 
found  in  the  said  ships  until  the  said  merchants  of  London  should 
in  Portugal  be  contented  of  that  sum,  or  until  other  order  should  by 
the  council  be  taken  thereupon. 
Sept.  2(i.        Et  factum  juit  inde  breve  sicut  alias. 

\\  Bstmioster. 

pt.  7.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  testimony  of  certain  credible 

\\  eetminster.  persons  to  set  free  John  Cokson  from  prison,  if  detained  for  the  cause 
hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other  ;  as  upon  information  that 
he  took  divers  goods  and  merchandise  out  of  three  tarits  of  Genoa, 
Naples  and  Cateloigne,  the  king  by  writ  lately  ordered  the  sheriffs 
to  take  and  imprison  the  said  John  until  the  king  should  take  other 
order  for  his  deliverance  ;  but  the  said  persons  have  witnessed  before 
the  king  and  council  that  he  was  not  present  when  the  same  were 
taken  out  of  the  said  tarits. 


Sept.  8.  To  Thomas  de  Gretwell  collector  of  the  subsidy  upon  cloths  for 

Westminster,  sale  in  Lincolnshire,  Roteland,  Notynghamshire  and  Derbyshire. 
Order  to  arrest  all  cloths  exposed  for  sale  after  the  Gule  of  August 
which  do  not  contain  the  measure  hereinafter  mentioned,  in  whose 
hands  soever  they  shall  be  found,  except  those  made  by  small  men 
(mediocres),  cloths  of  '  kereseye  '  and  '  worstede,'  causing  answer  to  be 
made  for  them  at  the  exchequer  according  to  the  ordinance  ;  as  in 
the  parliament  holden  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Edmund 
the  Martyr  last  it  was  ordered  and  agreed  (among  other  things)  that 
cloths  made  within  the  realm  shall  be  of  the  measure  following,  namely 
striped  cloths  28  ells  in  length  measured  by  the  list  and  five  quarters 
in  width,  the  cloth  of  colour  26  ells  in  length  measured  by  the  fold 
(dorsum)  and  six  quarters  at  least  in  width,  and  half  cloths  whether 
striped  or  of  colour  of  proportional  length  and  like  width,  and  that 
if  after  the  said  feast  then  next  to  come  any  cloth  striped  or  of  colour 
or  any  half  cloth  should  be  exposed  for  sale  not  containing  such 
measure  it  should  straightway  be  forfeit  to  the  king  in  whose  hands 
soever  it  should  be  found  ;  but  it  was  not  the  intent  of  the  king,  lords 
or  commons  of  the  realm  that  cloths  made  -by  men  for  their  own 
use  or  for  their  household,  or  made  by  small  men  for  sale  shall  be  so 
forfeit.  By  C. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Edmund  Giffard  collector  of  the  said  subsidy  in  Berkshire. 

Simon  de   Burgh   collector   of   the   said   subsidy   in   Essex   and 

Hertfordshire. 
Et  erat  patens. 
Robert  Plummere  of  London  collector  of  the  said  subsidy  in  the 

city  and  suburbs  of  London  and  in  Middlesex. 

Sept.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Huntingdon.  Order  to  repair  in  person  to  the 
Westminster,  town  of  Hamerton  and  there  make  inquisition  touching  the  matter 
hereinafter  rehearsed  and  all  circumstances  affecting  the  same  and, 
if  assured  that  the  facts  stated  are  true,  to  cause  the  horses  and  all 
good  and  chattels  of  Thomas  Wyne  chaplain  and  Robert  Wyne  to  be 
seized  into  the  king's  hand  and  answer  to  be  made  to  the  king  for 
the  price  of  those  horses  and  the  true  value  of  the  said  goods  and 


Sept.  15. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  16. 
Westminster. 

Oct.  12. 

Westminster. 


4s    EDWARD    III.  43 


1374.  Membrane   14 — cont. 

chattels,  arresting  and  imprisoning  until  further  order  all  who  shall 
be  rebellious  or  contrary  herein,  certifying  in  chancery  under  his  seal 
when  he  shall  have  executed  this  command,  and  Bending  again  this 
writ  with  the  inquisition  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  Thomas 
and  Robert  being  lately  at  Weston  charged  with  certain  felonies, 
and  being  for  that  cause  fugitives,  were  by  men  of  those  parts  pursued 
as  far  as  Hamerton  with  hue  and  cry  to  take  them  that  they  should 
stand  to  right  thereupon,  till  they  came  within  the  precinct  of  the  church 
there,  and  the  churchyard  gate  being  not  shut  escaped  through  it 
with  two  horses  and  other  their  goods  and  chattels,  and  there  kept 
themselves,  acknowledging  before  the  coroner  that  they  committed 
certain  felonies,  and  willing  to  enjoy  the  immunity  of  the  church, 
and  that  certain  ministers  of  the  said  church,  scheming  cunningly  to 
deprive  the  king  and  crown  of  taking  the  forfeiture  pertaining  to 
the  king  in  that  behalf,  hindered  the  bailiffs  of  that  town  from  seizing 
the  said  horses,  goods  and  chattels  into  the  king's  hand  and  answering 
to  him  for  them,  as  by  law  ought  to  be  done,  averring  that  the  same 
were  offered  to  God  and  to  the  church  there  for  that  they  so  came 
within  the  precinct  of  the  said  church,  in  contempt  of  the  king  and  to 
his  manifest  prejudice;  and  if  that  be  so  it  is  the  king's  will  to  apply 
a  remedy. 

Oct.  6.  To  Peter  de  Brugge  and  Nicholas  Bray.     Order  to  cause  all  the 

Westminster,  goods  and  chattels  and  stock  of  the  priory  of  Andevere  by  them 
delivered  to  Thomas  de  Spigurnell  now  deceased,  if  existing,  or  if 
not  the  true  price  thereof,  to  be  levied  of  the  goods  and  chattels  of 
the  said  deceased  and  delivered  by  indenture  to  the  prior  and  house 
of  Andevere,  certifying  in  chancery  under  their  seals  what  they  shall 
do  herein,  and  sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  lately  the  king  appointed 
the  said  Peter  and  Nicholas  to  cause  the  goods  and  chattels  and  the 
stock  pertaining  to  the  said  priory,  which  was  in  the  king's  hand  by 
reason  of  the  war  with  France,  to  be  b}^  indentures  between  them  and 
the  said  Thomas  and  the  prior,  containing  the  quantities  thereof, 
delivered  according  to  an  appraisement  to  the  said  Thomas,  to  whom 
the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  the  keeping  of  the  said  priory 
and  of  all  lands  and  possessions  thereto  belonging,  so  that  the  said 
Thomas  should  answer  for  such  goods  and  chattels  to  the  said  prior 
and  to  his  house  ;  and  the  king  is  informed  that  after  the  livery  of 
the  said  goods  and  chattels  and  stock  great  number  of  them  are  now 
eloigned  and  withdrawn,  [praying  for]  restitution  thereof  to  the 
prior. 

Membrane  13. 

Aug.  28.         To  brother  Stephen  Coulyng  of  the  order  of  friars  preachers.     Si  riol 
Westminster,  order  forbidding  him   at    his   peri]   to    presume  by  reason  of  a  commis- 
sion to  him  addressed  by  the  master  general  of  that  order  openh,  or 
secretly  to  grieve  or  trouble  any  friar  of  England  by  \  isital  ion,  punish- 
ment or  otherwise,  on  the  king's  behalf  certifying  the  -aid  master 

as  speedily  as  may  he  that  if  he  or  the  said  Stephen  shall  do  audit 
further,  or  if  hereafter  a  like  commission  shall  by  him  or  another  on 
his  behalf  he  sent  to  the  realm  or  there  delivered  to  grieve  an] 
the  king's  liege  subjects  by  colour  of  their  executing  any  command 
of  the  king,  the  king  will  be  so  wroth  with  the  said  Stephen  and  with 
all  friars  of  the  order  found  in  his  realm  that   it  shall  he  an  example 


4|  CALENDAB    OF  CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1874,  Membrane  13 — cont. 

for  ever  to  all  other  alien  friars  who  shall  come  thither  hereafter  ; 
as  lately  being  informed  of  the  mind  of  the  council  that,  in  order  to 
spy  out  the  king's  counsel  and  the  estate  of  the  realm  and  to  certify 
his  enemies  of  the  same,  great  number  of  aliens  the  king's  enemies, 
pretending  to  be  friars  of  the  said  order,  were  flocking  to  the  house 
of  those  friars  at  Oxford  there  to  abide  under  colour  of  studying  in 
the  university,  the  king  gave  strict  command  to  the  prior  and 
convent  of  the  order  at  Oxford  to  remove  all  such  alien  friars, 
not  admitting  them  or  any  other  alien  friars  to  their  house  until 
they  should  be  examined  before  the  council  and  licence  should 
be  given  to  receive  them  ;  and  now  the  king  is  informed  that  the 
said  master  general,  untruly  averring  and  affirming  that  the  king's 
command  issued  at  the  procurement  of  certain  English  friars  and 
not  otherwise,  has  at  the  instance  and  evil  suggestion  of  the  said  alien 
friars  caused  a  commission  with  fearful  threatenings  to  be  addressed 
and  delivered  to  the  said  Stephen  to  visit,  grievously  punish  and 
trouble  the  friars  of  the  realm  for  that  cause,  in  contempt  of  the  king 
and  to  their  hurt  ;  and  the  king's  will  is  that  his  said  command  shall 
be  fulfilled,  and  that  those  who  contravene  the  same  shall  be  duly 
punished. 

Oct.  24.  To  the  constable  or  warden  of  Wyndesore  castle  for  the  time  being. 

Westminster.  Order  of  the  profits  to  the  said  castle  belonging  to  pay  to  the  abbot 
and  convent  of  Redyng  the  arrears  since  Michaelmas  in  the  46th  year 
of  the  reign  of  7s.  5d.  a  year,  and  henceforward  to  pay  them  and  their 
successors  that  yearly  sum,  taking  their  acquittance  ;  as  on  1  May  in 
the  47th  year  of  his  reign  in  recompense  for  the  7s.  5d.  a  year  rent  service 
to  them  due  for  lands  formerly  of  particular  tenants  of  theirs  which 
were  included  in  the  king's  park  beneath  the  said  castle,  the  king  by 
letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  and  to  their  suc- 
cessors 7s.  5d.  a  year  of  the  profits  aforesaid  from  the  aforesaid  date,  to 
be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  by  the  hands  of  the 
constable  or  warden  of  the  castle  or  other  the  receiver  of  the  said 
profits  for  the  time  being  until  provision  should  by  the  king  be  made 
for  them  and  their  successors  of  so  much  yearly  rent  elsewhere  within 
the  realm. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  12. 

Sept.  27.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  set  free  John  de  Lukes  servant 
Westminster,  of  Thomas  Serland,  if  imprisoned  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned 
and  for  none  other,  although  lately  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to 
arrest  and  take  him  wherever  found  in  their  bailiwick,  and  when 
taken  straightway  to  cause  him  to  be  brought  before  the  king  and 
council  to  answer  touching  certain  things  which  should  then  be  laid 
before  him,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  council  should 
appoint  concerning  him  ;  as  his  said  master,  at  whose  suit  he  is  taken 
and  imprisoned,  is  consenting  to  his  deliverance,  as  he  has  witnessed 
before  the  king. 

Oct.  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  York  for  the  time  being.     Order  to  cause  the  arrears 

Westminster,  since  15  March  in  the  46th  year  of  the  reign  of  the  wages  and  fees 

belonging  to  the  office  of  janitor  of  York  castle  to  be  paid  to  Alexander 

de  la  Botellerie  the  king's  Serjeant,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  the 


(8   HOWARD   III. 


Ifi 


1374.  1/r  mbrane  \2—cont. 

same  every  year  during  the  king's  pleasure,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 

as  on  thai  date  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the 
said  Alexander  during  pleasure  that  office  which  Richard   de   Sutton 
had  during  his  life  by  the  king's  grant,  with  the  wages  and  fees  then 
belonging. 

©        © 

Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  York  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues  of  his 

Westminster,  bailiwick  to  pay  to  Robert  atte  Wode  the  arrears  since  (i  November 
in  the  34th  year  of  the  reign  of  4</.  a  day,  and  henceforward  to  pay 
him  that  daily  sum  every  year  for  life,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as 
on  that  day  the  king  of  his  favour  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the 
said  Robert,  for  his  good  service  and  for  that  he  was  maimed  in  the 
king's  service,  4d.  a  day  for  life  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  by  the  hands 
of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  9.  To    Nicholas    Seymour    escheator    in    Xorhamptonshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  tin;  manor 
of  Helyden  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  son  of 
Walter  Baskervylle  knight,  delivering  to  Katherine  his  wife  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  nor  of  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  by 
gift  of  Richard  Spark  chaplain  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the 
said  Katherine  of  others  than  the  king. 

Oct.  21.  To  the  keepers  or  farmers  of  the  manor  of  Haveryng  for  the  time 

Westminster,  being.  Order  of  the  issues  or  farm  thereof  to  pay  to  John  Culvere 
2d.  a  day  for  life,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  IS  October  last  the 
king  of  his  favour  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  John  the  keeping 
of  his  park  of  YVrittele  for  life,  taking  for  his  wages  2d.dk  da}-  as  aforesaid 
by  the  hands  of  the  said  keepers  or  farmers. 
Et  erat  patens. 


Membrane  11. 

Sept.  26.         To  John  de  Perton  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  take  of  Katherine 

Wt   r.  who  was  wife  of  John  son  of  Walter  Baskerville  tenant  in  chief  an 

oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign 
her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  .John  his  son  and  heir,  sending 
the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  John  ap  Rees  escheator  in  Herefordshire.  Like  order  to  assign 
dower  to  the  said  Katherine,  of  whom  the  king  has  commanded  an 
oath  to  be  taken  by  John  de  IViton  ('/-•  abo 

Oct.  8.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  oity  <»f  Norwich  for  the  time  being.     Order 

of  the  farm  of  that  city  to  pay  to  Thomas  de  .Murricux  the  son  knight 
the  arrears  since  6  Augusl  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  of  100  mi 
a  •.  nd  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  yearly  Bum  tor  his  lif. 

Michaelmas  and    Eastei    by  even   portions,  taking  bis  ae<niittau 
on  the  afore  aid  date  the' king  of  his  favour  by  lettei    paten!  granted 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1374.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

to  the  said  Thomas  for  his  good  service  100  marks  a  year  to  be  taken 
aa  aforesaid  by  the  hands  of  the  said  bailiffs  for  his  life  or  until  the 
king  should  take  other  order  for  his  estate. 
Et  oral  patens. 


Oct.  14.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  governor  and  guardian  of  Ireland  or  to 

Westminster,  his  representative,  the  chancellor,  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer  of  Ireland.  Order,  if  lawfully  assured  that  Hugh  son  of 
Edward  le  Despenser  knight  held  jointly  with  Alice  his  wife,  daughter 
of  John  son  of  Peter  de  Hothum  knight  tenant  in  chief,  the  castle, 
manors,  mills,,  borough,  serjeanty  and  rent,  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons, 
liberties  etc.  hereinafter  mentioned,  and  that  they  are  in  the  king's 
hand  for  the  cause  stated  and  for  none  other,  to  restore  and  deliver 
the  same  to  the  said  Alice  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  11  March 
last,  on  which  day  the  said  Hugh  died,  as  is  found  by  inquisition  taken 
at  the  king's  command  by  Nicholas  Seymo[ur]  escheator  in 
Norhamptonshire  ;  as  she  has  shewn  the  king  that  her  said  father 
was  lately  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  of  Kilkenny  castle  with  the 
mills  there,  the  borough  of  Rosbargan  with  the  mills  there,  the  manors 
of  Dunfert  and  Kilderney,  the  serjeanty  of  Overk,  33/.  15s.  3d.  of  rent  in 
Callan  and  the  advowson  of  Callan,  with  other  lands  and  knights'  fees 
with  their  appurtenances  in  Overk,  Obargan,  Logheran,  Killagh', 
Royfynan,  Knottofre,  the  Newtown  of  Geripont,  Killamery,  Archeres- 
ton,  Lysdony,  Kilfetheran,  Newtown  Darley,  Rathegulby,  Kiltraven, 
Ramadouf  aud  Choleghaune,  and  the  royalties  there  and  other 
liberties,  offices  and  divers  profits  to  the  said  castle,  towns,  manors 
and  serjeanty  pertaining,  which  are  held  in  chief,  that  by  virtue  of 
the  king's  licence  he  gave  the  premises  with  all  other  their  appurten- 
ances, and  the  reversions  of  lands  held  in  dower  or  otherwise  for  life 
or  for  a  term  of  years,  to  Thomas  de  Ferrariis  knight  and  Anne  le 
Despenser  his  wife  for  their  lives  with  remainder  to  the  said  Hugh 
and  Alice  (who  were  after  wedded)  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies, 
that  although  by  virtue  of  that  gift  the  said  Hugh  and  Alice  were 
by  due  process  in  the  king's  court  of  Ireland  seised  of  the  premises 
after  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas  and  Anne,  the  same  were  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  virtue  of  an  ordinance  made  at  Gildeford 
in  the  42nd  year  of  the  reign,  whereby  every  man  having  lordships, 
lands  etc.  in  Ireland  was  ordered  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  on 
or  before  Easter  day  in  the  43rd  year  to  come  in  person  to  Ireland, 
or  send  thither  his  quota  of  men,  sufficient,  there  to  abide  upon  the 
defence  of  Ireland,  for  that  the  said  Hugh  being  on  the  king's  service 
over  sea  and  knowing  nought  thereof,  who  died  in  those  parts,  came 
not  before  the  said  feast  nor  sent  men  as  aforesaid,  that  for  that  cause 
the  premises  remained  in  the  king's  hand  until  the  said  Hugh's  death, 
and  thereafter  for  that  cause  and  by  reason  of  his  death,  and  are  yet 
in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  now  the  said  Alice  has  petitioned  the  king 
for  restitution  thereof  and  of  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  her  said 
husband's  death,  and  the  king  takes  note  that  there  is  no  fault  in  her, 
and  that  the  said  Hugh  might  not  forfeit  the  premises  beyond  the  term 
of  his  life,  and  it  is  his  will  to  deal  generously  with  her  in  consideration 
of  the  estate  which  the  said  Hugh  had  therein,  and  for  that  the  said 
bcence  and  the  charter  of  gift  are  enrolled  upon  the  rolls  of  the  chancery 
of  England.     Proviso  that  the  said  Alice  shall  by  herself  or  by  others 


48    EDWAKh    III 


47 


1374. 


Oct.  16. 

■  minster. 
Oct.  6. 

Westminster. 


Oct.  27. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  11 — coil. 

perform  and  find  her  proportion  of  all  charges  due  for  the  premises, 
as  others  in  Ireland  are  bound  to  do.     Dupplicaiur. 

Et  factum  est  breve  indc  sicut  alias. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  take  into  the  king's  hand  a 
tenement  with  houses  thereupon  built  in  the  parish  of  St.  15 ride 
Fletstret  in  the  suburb  of  London  situate  between  a  tenement  of  the 
abbot  of  Faveresham  and  the  churchyard  of  St.  Bride,  and  to  deliver 
the  same  to  Thomas  de  Shardelowe.  to  whom  the  king  by  letters  patent 
has  given  the  premises  by  name  of  a  messuage  or  tenement  with  the 
appurtenances  in  Briddeslane  in  the  parish  of  St.  Bride  London  ; 
as  the  king  has  by  writ  recovered  the  premises  against  the  abbot  of 
Teukesbury  and  Andrew  de  Gildeford,  which  were  sometime  of  Peter 
de  Leycestria,  and  which  after  the  publication  of  the  statute  of  mort- 
main the  said  Peter  in  his  testament  devised  to  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  Teukesbury  and  to  their  successors  without  the  king's  licence,  as 
in  the  record  and  process  thereupon  had  before  the  king  in  chancery 
is  contained. 

To  Roger  Keterych  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  cause  John  son 
of  Constant ine  de  Clyfton,  cousin  and  heir  of  Adam  de  Clifton  tenant 
in  chief,  to  have  seisin  as  well  of  the  lands  of  his  said  grandfather  as 
of  those  held  in  fee  tail  and  in  dower  or  otherwise  for  life  of  his  heritage 
by  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Constantine  and  by  Margaret 
who  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Ufford  late  earl  of  Suffolk,  and  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  b}r  their  deaths  ;  as  the  said  John  has  proved  his 
age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [30293.J 

To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Like  order  ;  as  the 
said  John  son  of  Constantine  has  proved  his  age  before  Roger 
Keterych.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  de  Weston  escheator  in  Xorffolk  and  Suffolk. 
Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire. 

Nov.  14.         To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  king's  manor  of  Asshetesford  co. 

tminster.  Kent  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay 

to  Nicholas  Curteys  the  arrears  since  20  August   last  of  the  tins  and 

liveries  of  the  office  of  the  '  haywardwyk  '  thereof,  and  henceforward 

to  pay  him   the  same  during  his  life,  taking  his  acquittance;    as    on 

the  date  mentioned   in  consideration  of  his  good  service  to  the  king's 

son  Lionel  duke  of  Clarence  deceased,  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted 

that  office  to  the  said  Nicholas  for  life,  taking  such  fees  and  liveries 

William  Yonge  the  last  hayward  {ni<s«>r)  used  to  take,  bo  that  he 

shall  perform  whatever  pertains  to  the  said  office  in  person  or  by  a 

deputy  for  whom   he  will  answer. 

Et  i  mi  j/'i/i  n 

Nov.   21.  To  John  de  Weston  e.M-heator  ill  Suffolk.       Order  to  take  of  <  ieotfreV 

u,  ,,;.,,,  ter.  son  and  heir  of  Adam  I  lerard  of  Fakenham  Espes  security  for  payment 
,,l'  his  relief  at  the  exchequer,  and  to  cause  him  to  have  seisin  of  his 
■  id  father's  lands ;    as  the  king  has  taken  the  Baid  Geoffrey's  hom 

and   fealty.  Bj    p.s.  [30321.] 

Vacated,  becatw   upon  tin   Fim   RoU  for  this  yar. 


w 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L874. 
Aug.  24. 


Membrane  10. 


To  William  Coteshale  and  Richard  Forester  keepers  of  the  priory 
.  of  St.  Frideswyde  Oxford,  which  for  particular  causes  is  in  the  king's 
hand.  Order  to  deliver  to  brother  John  de  Wabyngford  prior  thereof 
for  his  abode  a  place  near  Oxford  called  '  Runseye  chapele,'  and  of 
the  issues  of  the  priory  so  long  as  they  shall  be  keepers  thereof  to 
pay  him  6a.  a  week  for  his  commons  and  the  commons  of  a  canon  his 
fellow  dwelling  with  him,  23s.  4d.  a  quarter  for  his  raiment  and  the 
said  canons.  12^/.  a  week  for  their  servants'  meat,  and  5s.  a  quarter 
for  their  servants'  wages,  delivering  to  him  hay,  litter  and  provender 
for  one  horse  for  his  riding  ;  as  of  his  compassion  for  the  said  prior's 
estate  the  king  has  granted  him  to  have  that  place  for  his  dwelling 
and  the  dwelling  of  a  canon  with  him  and  of  their  servants,  and  to 
take  for  his  commons  4s.  a  week  and  for  his  raiment  one  mark  a  quarter, 
for  the  said  canon's  commons  2s.  a  week  and  for  his  raiment  10s.  a 
quarter  as  other  canons  have  in  that  house,  and  other  the  weekly  and 
quarterly   sums   aforesaid.     Dupplicatur. 

Oct.  18.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Worcester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

•minster,  instead  of  John  Clare,  who  is  abiding  continually  in  Oxfordshire, 
wherefore  he  may  not  attend  to  the  exercise  of  that  office,  as  the 
king  has  learned. 

Sept.  29.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  farm  of 
Westminster,  that  city  to  pay  to  John  de  Surray,  or  to  Alice  Perriers  guardian 
and  the  next  friend  (amico)  of  the  said  John  who  is  within  age  it  is  said, 
100/.  for  the  year  now  past,  and  henceforward  100/.  every  year  during 
his  life,  taking  of  the  said  Alice  acquittance  for  every  payment  so  long 
as  he  is  within  age  ;  as  on  12  February  last  of  his  favour  the  king  by 
letters  patent  granted  the  said  John  that  sum  from  Michaelmas  then 
last,  to  be  taken  every  year  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  Derby  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues  of 

Westminster,  that  county  to  pay  to  the  king's  son  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  and 
duke  of  Lancastre,  the  arrears  for  Easter  and  Michaelmas  terms  last 
of  20/.  of  yearly  rent  which  he  holds  by  the  courtesy  of  England  of 
the  heritage  of  Rlanch  daughter  and  heir  of  Henry  late  duke  of 
Lancastre  whom  the  said  John  lately  took  to  wife,  and  henceforward 
to  pay  him  the  said  rent,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  the  king  by 
charter  gave  to  the  said  Henry,  whom  he  made  earl  of  Derby,  and 
to  his  heirs,  20/.  of  rent  to  be  taken  every  year  at  the  said  terms  of 
the  issues  of  the  said  county  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  patens. 
[Feeder  a.] 

Nov.  10.  To  the  king's  customer  and  the  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne. 
Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Nicholas  de  Haukeswell  and  William  de 
Deseburgh  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  first  making  indentures  between 
the  said  customer  and  bailiffs  and  the  said  Nicholas  and  William 
containing  the  quantity  and  value  thereof,  by  mainprise  of  Sampson 
Hard}'  of  Northumberland  and  John  Woderoue  of  Yorkshire  to  suffer 
the  said  Nicholas  and  William  by  themselves  or  their  servants  in  that 
port  to  lade  ten  lasts  of  hides  in  a  certain  ship  and  freely  without  let 


4s  EDWARD  III. 


1374.  M'l/thraitc   10 — cunt. 

to  take  them  thence  by  water  to  one  of  the  porta  of  Lenne,  Jernemuth 
or  London,  any  command  to  the  customer  and   bailiffs  previously 

addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding;  as  the  petitioners  have 
prayed  licence  so  to  do,  and  the  said  Sampson  and  .John,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  them  that  they  shall  not 
bring  those  hides  nor  cause  the  same  to  be  brought  to  any  other  parte 
or  places  but  to  one  of  the  aforesaid  ports,  and  to  answer  to  the  king 
for  the  forfeiture  thereof  and  for  the  customs,  subsidies  and  all  other 
things  due  for  the  same  in  case  upon  any  emergency  they  shall  without 
the  king's  licence  be  brought  to  any  foreign  parts  or  elsewhere. 

Oct.  16.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  foresl  of 

Westminster.  Braden  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  Russel,  who  is  too  sick  and  aged  to 

labour  in  the  forest  at  those  things  which  pertain  to  the  office  of  verderer. 

Nov.  17.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  William  Roodburgh,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Nov.  10.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Bedford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elect.. I 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Mordaunt,  who  is  too  sick  to  exercise  that  office. 

Membrane  <i. 

Nov.  10.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Sandwich. 

Westminster.  Order  to  suffer  John  Whaplode  to  lade  a  certain  tarit  or  other  ships 
in  that  port,  and  freely  without  let  to  carry  whither  he  will  without 
a  second  payment  of  custom,  subsidies  or  other  duties  the  wools  and 
woolfells  which  by  letters  of  cocket  of  the  collectors  in  the  port  of 
Qcestre  they  may  be  assured  were  there  cocket ed  and  customed  by 
virtue  of  the  king's  licence,  and  for  which  the  custom,  subsidy  and 
other  duties  has  been  paid  to  the  last  mentioned  collectors  ;  as  on 
i)  August  last  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  to  the  said  John 
that  he  might  lade  in  the  port  of  Cicestre  300  sacks  of  wool  or  woolfells. 
reckoning  always  240  woolfells  by  the  lesser  hundred  lor  one  sack  of 
wool,  and  might  take  them  to  foreign  parte  whither  he  would,  provided 
always  that  before  taking  them  out  of  that  port  he  should  pay  down 
to  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  therein  such  customs, 
BubBidies  and  duties  as  should  lie  paid  at  the  staple  of  Calais  if  he 
should  take  the  same  thither:  and  the  said  .John  has  petitioned  the 
king  for  licence  to  lade  anew  in  the  said  tarit  or  other  ships  in  the 
port  of  Sandwich,  and  without  a  second  payment  to  take  to  foreign 
parte  to  make  his  advantage  thereof,  95  sacks  15  -tone  of  the  wool 
and   woolfells  aforesaid,  after  they   have   been   laded   and  cocketed 

in  the  port  of  Cicestre  and  the  custom  and  subsidy  has  there  been 
fully  paid. 

To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Suthampton. 
Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  concerning  16  sacks  15  Btoi f  wool 

or  woolfells. 

Nov.  10.         To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  the  city 
of  London.      Order  to  sutler  26  long  cloths  of  colour  of  Simon  cardinal 

of  Canterbury  bought  and  purveyed  to  Ins  own  use  freely  without 

let  to  be  by  hi>  attorneys  and   proctor-  in  that    port   laded  and  Bent   OT 

taken  to  him  over  sea  without  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the 

en   i 


CALENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1 .; 7  | .  Mi  mbrane  i> — cont. 

g'a  use,  any  command  etc.  ;   as  the  king  would  shew  special  favour 
to  the  said  cardinal. 

X,i\  22.  To  John  de  Perton  escheator  in  Salop  and  the  march  of  Wales 
w  ,  Bti  taster,  adjacent.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further 
with  a  burgage  in  the  town  of  Shrewsbury  and  the  commotes  of 
Deudour,  Meghein  Iscoid,  Moghenant  and  Meghein  Ughcoid  in  the 
said  march  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de 
Cherleton  of  Powys  knight,  delivering  to  Joan  his  wife  any  issues 
thereol  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken 
by  the  escheat  or.  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence 
the  said  John  at  his  death  held  jointly  with  the  said  Joan,  to  them  and 
the  said  John's  heirs,  one  burgage  in  the  said  town  in  chief  as  in  burgage, 
and  the  said  commotes  in  chief  b}r  knight  service  ;  and  the  king  has 
commanded  the  said  Joan's  fealty  to  be  taken  by  Richard  de 
Arundell. 

Nov.  22.  To  John  de  Perton  escheator  in  Salop  and  the  march  of  Wales 
Westminster,  adjacent.  Order,  in  presence  of  Richard  de  Arundell  to  whom  the 
king  has  committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  lands  of  John 
de  Cherlton  of  Powys  knight  tenant  in  chief  or  of  his  attorney,  if  being 
warned  he  will  attend,  to  assign  dower  of  the  said  land  to  Joan  who  was 
wife  of  the  said  John,  of  whom  the  king  has  commanded  an  oath  to  be 
taken  by  the  said  Richard  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's 
licence,  and  to  send  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery. 

Membrane  8. 

Oct.  24.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Alexander  archbishop  of  York,  to  view  a  record  and  process 
of  the  justices  in  eyre  in  Yorkshire  and  the  rolls  and  memoranda  of 
the  exchequer,  and  if  assured  that  the  facts  are  as  stated,  to  cause 
two  money  dies  (cuneos  monetales)  for  his  change  at  York  to  be  delivered 
to  him  without  difficulty  and  delay  ;  as  he  ought  to  have  and  his 
predecessors  used  to  have  the  same,  and  his  petition  shews  that  he 
ought  to  have,  and  his  predecessors  time  out  of  mind  used  to  have 
two  dies  for  the  said  change,  as  may  appear  as  well  by  the  said  record 
and  process  sent  by  the  king  to  the  exchequer  as  by  the  said  rolls 
and  memoranda. 
[Fcedera.] 

Xov.  9.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Simon  Clerk  of  Karlill,  who  is  dead. 

Sept.  20.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  the  city  of 
Westminster.  Cicestre.  Order  to  deliver  without  delay  to  John  de  Hedyngham 
and  Thomas  de  Barton  or  to  their  attorney  one  part  of  the  king's 
cocket  seal  in  that  port  which  is  in  the  collectors'  keeping,  expressly 
forbidding  that  any  wool,  hides  or  woolfells  shall  in  that  port  be  laded 
and  taken  thence  to  any  parts  unless  [sealed]  with  that  part  as  well 
as  with  the  other  part  remaining  in  the  collectors'  hands,  until  the 
said  John  and  Thomas  shall  be  fully  contented  of  a  sum  of  800Z.  ;  as 
by  his  letters  patent  the  king  is  bound  to  them  in  3,000Z.  for  particular 
causes  by  the  long  and  council  agreed,  and  has  granted  that  the  said 


4S     HOWARD    III.  5] 


1374.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

John  and  Thomas  shall  take  800/.  thereof  of  the  customs  and  subsidies 
in  the  said  port,  namely  2&S.  of  every  sack  of  wool  until  that  sum 
he  folly  paid,  and  the  residue  in  other  places  in  the  said  letters  specified, 
according  to  tallies  levied  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  ;  and  there- 
upon the  king  by  writ  commanded  the  collectors  to  deliver  by  indenture 
to  the  said  John  and  Thomas  or  to  their  attorney  25«.  of  every  sack 
of  wool  that  shall  there  be  laded  until  800/.  be  fully  paid  ;  and  it  is 
his  wall  so  far  as  he  may  to  hasten  the  payment  thereof. 

To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Suthampton. 
Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  in  regard  to  payment  of  400/.  to  the 
said  John  and  Thomas. 

Oct.  28.  To  Simon  de  Burgh  constable  of  Rochester  castle.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  Boncorps  and  James  Colas  Lumbards,  to  view  certain 
letters  of  cocket  of  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port 
of  Dovorre,  and  to  dearrest  and  deliver  to  the  said  Boncorps  and 
James  without  a  second  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  the 
wares  in  those  letters  contained,  if  arrested  for  the  cause 
hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other  ;  as  their  petition  shews 
that  although  in  the  said  port  they  truly  paid  the  customs  and  subsidies 
due  for  250/.  of  divers  wares  by  them  brought  thither  from  foreign 
parts  in  five  cases,  as  appears  by  the  said  letters  of  cocket  produced 
in  chancery,  the  same  are  arrested  in  the  city  of  Rochester  for  payment 
of  the  custom  and  subsidy  as  if  they  were  not  previously  paid,  praying 
for  restitution. 

Nov.  6.  To   Nicholas   Seymour  escheator  in   Norhamptonshire.     Order   to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Colyweston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Hugh  le 
Despenser  knight,  delivering  to  the  said  John  [sic)  and  to  Alice  lite 
wife  of  the  said  Hugh  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  incpiisition.  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Hugh  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held 
the  said  manor  of  the  right  and  heritage  of  the  said  Alice  of  others 
than  the  king. 

To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  I. ike  order  concerning 
divers  lands  which  the  said  Hugh  held  for  life  of  others  than  the 
king. 

MEMBR  i  \ ■/•:  7. 

Nov.  L6.         To  .John  de  Broghton  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Ordertotake 

the  fealty  of  Isahel  late  the  wifcof  William  de  Quynton  knighl  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand 
and  meddle  no  further  with  the  manor  of  Comhiirton  taken  into  tic- 
king's hand  by  the  said  William's  death,  delivering  to  her  any  J88Ues 
thereof  taken";  as  the  kin<_'  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  I  he 
escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  m  that 
county  in  chief  in  demesne  nor  in  service,  hut  by  tine  levied  in  the 
king's    court     with    his    licence    held    the    said    manor    jointly    with    the 

id  Isahel  for  their  lives  in  chief  by  the  service  ol  carrying  one 
'  gooshauk '  at   the  king's  coronation. 


CALENDAB    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


]374  Membrane  7 — cont. 

To  Roger  Keterych  esoheator  in  Essex.  Like  order  to  remove  the 
king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  White  Rothyng';  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
the  esoheator,  that  the  said  William  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the 
said  [sabel  in  chief,  and  he  has  commanded  her  fealty  to  be  taken 
by  John  de  Broghton. 

Nov.  1(1.         To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Order  not  to  put  Walter  Petewardyne 

Westminster,  baron  nor  suffer  him  to  be  put  against  his  will  upon  any  assizes,  juries 

or  recognitions  contrary  to  the  form  of  his  tenure,  nor  in  aught  to 

trouble  him  for  the  same  ;    as  the  barons  of  England  ought  not  and 

used  not  to  be  put  thereupon  contrary  to  the  form  of  their  tenure. 

1375. 
Jan.  20.         John  de  Clynton  baron  has  the  like  writ. 
Westminster. 

1374. 

Dec.  6.  To  John  de  Broughton  esoheator  in  Bukinghamshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  Wodesden  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Hugh  de  Courtenay  knight,  being  son  of  Hugh  son  of  Hugh  de 
Courtenay  earl  of  Devon  yet  living,  delivering  any  issues  thereof  taken 
to  Maud  daughter  of  Thomas  de  Holand  earl  of  Kent,  late  wife  of 
the  said  Hugh  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said  Hugh  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  nor  of  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises 
in  right  of  the  said  Maud  of  the  gift  of  the  said  earl  of  Devon  to  the 
said  Maud  and  to  the  heirs  of  her  body  by  the  said  Hugh  begotten, 
and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Berkshire.  Order  to  remove 
the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Sutton 
Courtenay  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Hugh  son  of 
Hugh  de  Courtenay  knight,  delivering  to  Maud  late  his  wife  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  Hugh  de  Courtenay  knight  at  his  death  held 
no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held 
the  said  manor  in  chief  by  knight  service  in  right  of  the  said  Maud 
by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Hugh  de  Courtenay  earl  of  Devon  made 
with  the  king's  licence  to  her  and  the  heirs  of  her  body  by  her 
said  husband  begotten,  with  reversion  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the 
said  earl  and  his  heirs,  and  that  the  said  Hugh  son  of  Hugh  died 
without  issue  by  her ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said 
Maud. 

Dec.  7.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Westmorland.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  in  dower  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  William  son  of  Ralph  de 
Restwold  tenant  in  chief  the  lands  and  rents  following,  in  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  his  heir's  nonage,  which  the  king 
has  assigned  to  her  with  the  assent  of  Ralph  de  Restwold,  to  whom 
the  king  has  committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  said  William's 
lands  until  the  lawful  age  of  his  heir,  and  of  William  Balymund 
attorney  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  of  whom  the  king  by  the  said  Ralph 
has  taken  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  his  licence,  namely 


IS    KDWARI)  III. 


1374.  Membrane  7 — cant. 

the  moiety  of  one  carucateoi  land  in  Appelby  extended  at  10».  a  year, a 

piece  of  land  called  BLirkebergh  at  20s.,  the  moiety  of  the  lordship  of 
Heltonbaooun  at  2().s.,  ten  bovates  of  land  in  Little  Stirkeland  at  l 

a  year,  705.  to  be  taken  yearly  during  the  Uvea  of  Richard  Trotter, 
Cireda  his  wife  and  -John  their  son  of  the  manor  of  Little  Stirkeland 
which  they  held  for  their  lives,  and  the  said  manor  after  their  death, 
and  21s.  2^d.  to  be  taken  yearly  of  a  nioietx  of  the  hamlet  of  Tebay 

and  Runthwayte  which  is  parcel  of  the  aforesaid  two  thirds. 

Membrane  6. 

Nov.  1G.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  called 
Newenton  Belhous  by  Hethe  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Thomas  Belhous  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator.  that 
the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
as  of  the  crown  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the 
said  manor  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  20.  To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  lands  in  Staynehurne, 
Hensyngham,  Dundrawe,  Whirig,  Keldesik  and  Neuton  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  William  de  Ergum  late  escheator,  delivering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  late  escheator 
to  certify  in  chancery  the  manner  and  cause  wherefore  lie  took 
the  premises  into  the  king's  hand,  and  the  yearly  value  thereof, 
and  he  certified  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken 
of  his  office,  that  ancestors  of  the  Deyncourtes  (antecessores  de  Deyn- 
courtes) founded  a  chantry  at  the  Lund  by  St.  Bede,  to  which  they 
gave  divers  lands  in  Staynburne  and  else  where  to  find  there  one 
chaplain  celebrating  divine  service  for  the  souls  of  the  king  and  his 
ancestors  and  the  ancestors  of  the  Deyncourtes  {de  les  Deyncourtes), 
that  the  said  chantry  is  long  time  withdrawn  and  no  chaplain  is  there 
found,  and  that  those  lands  are  worth  10/.  a  year;  and  that  he  found 
by  another  inquisition,  taken  likewise  of  his  office,  that  Gilbert  de 
Dundragh  knight  gave  certain  lands  in  Dundragh,  Whyrig,  Keldsyk, 
and  Neuton  to  find  one  chaplain  celebrating  divine  service  at 
Dundragh  and  Neuton,  and  that  no  chaplain  is  there  found,  and  that 
for  those  causes  he  took  the  premises  into  the  king's  hand  ;  and  the 
king  reckons  those  causes  insufficient. 

Nov.  28.         To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  take  of  Thomasia 

u.   tminster.  who  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Notyngham,  tenant  by  knigb.1  service  <»f 

the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury  now   void  and  in  the  king's  hand,  an 

oath  that  she  will  not  many  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence 

of  William  Tank  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardship 
thereof,  or  of  his  attorney  if  being  warned  he  will  attend  to  assign 
her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  tak<  n  into  the  king's  hand  by 
hi-  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  he  enroll*  d  m  chancer)  . 

Nov.  30.         'I'--  William  de  la   Vale  escheator  in   Northumberland.    Ordei   to 

W<   Mm i,  ter.  remove  the  king's  hand,  i  i  <l  not  to  meddle  further  with  two  thirds 

of  the  town  of  Idyngton  Beized  into  the  king's  hand  as  hereinafter 


,i  CALENDAB    OF  CLOSE    ROLLS. 


[374.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

mentioned  by  name  of  certain  particular  lands  and  tenements  in 
[dyngton,  delivering  to  the  abbot  of  Newminster  any  issues  thereof 
taken  :  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in 
chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  said  abbot's  lands  in  Idyngton 
were  by  William  do  Ergnm  late  escheator  taken  into  the  king's  hand, 
their  description  and  yearly  value,  and  he  certified  that  the  late 
escheator  by  indenture  delivered  to  him  that  nine  years  before  Robert 
de  Fenwyk  by  charter  enfeoffed  Alan  Whiteheved  and  John  son  of 
Adam  chaplains  of  two  thirds  of  the  said  town  worth  53s.  4c/.  a  year, 
and  that  the  said  abbot  having  obtained  the  king's  licence  took  the 
issues  and  profits  of  those  two  thirds,  which  the  late  escheator  seized 
into  the  king's  hand  under  the  name  aforesaid  ;  and  now  the  said 
abbot  has  petitioned  the  king  for  removal  of  his  hand  and  livery  of 
the  premises  and  the  issues  thereof  taken,  as  on  4  November  in  the 
38th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  gave  licence  in  mortmain 
to  Thomas  de  Kynton,  William  de  Wardecopp,  William  de  Arturet, 
Richard  de  Aukelond,  Nicholas  de  Kellawe  and  to  the  said  chaplains 
to  give  and  assign  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  and  to  their  successors 
two  thirds  of  the  said  town  and  certain  other  lands,  and  to  the  abbot 
and  convent  to  receive  and  hold  the  same,  by  virtue  whereof  the  abbot 
and  convent  purchased  the  premises  ;  and  the  king  reckons  the  cause 
of  the  said  seizure  insufficient.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  the 
escheator  be  discharged  of  the  same  toward  him. 

Dec.  13.  To   the   mayor  and   bailiffs   of   Kyngeston   upon   Hull.     Order  to 

Westminster,  desist  altogether  from  making  unlawful  demands  upon  the  merchants 
of  Almain,  demanding  of  them  no  custom  or  subsidy  besides  the 
customs  and  prises  by  them  granted  and  heretofore  usually  paid, 
and  not  troubling  or  grieving  them  in  aught  contrary  to  their  liberties 
and  privileges,  and  order  to  make  restitution  of  anything  of  them  or 
any  of  them  received  for  that  cause ;  as  King  Edward  I  by  his  charter,  con- 
firmed by  the  king,  for  certain  customs  and  prises  by  the  said  merchants 
freely  granted  to  him  and  his  heirs  to  be  levied  of  their  imports  or  exports 
of  goods  and  merchandise,  among  other  liberties  and  free  customs 
granted  them  that  no  demand,  prise,  prest  or  other  charge  should  be 
laid  upon  their  persons,  merchandise  or  goods  over  and  above  the 
customs  and  prises  aforesaid  ;  and  now  by  complaint  of  certain  of 
the  said  merchants  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  mayor  and 
bailiffs  are  now  newly  demanding  and  extorting  from  them  a  custom 
or  subsidy  called  '  brocage  '  of  their  goods  coming  to  that  town,  namely 
payment  of  2d.  the  pound,  unlawfully  striving  to  compel  them  to  pay 
the  same  over  and  above  the  ancient  customs  and  prises  aforesaid, 
wherefore  they  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy. 

Dec.  8.  To  Henry  de  Mordon.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Lewis  Andreu 

Westminster,  of  Florence  merchant,  to  restore  and  deliver  to  him  by  indenture 
all  manner  of  cloths  and  other  goods  taken  at  sea  in  a  tarit  of  '  Naples  ' 
which  he  may  lawfully  prove  to  be  his  own  ;  as  by  advice  of  the  council 
the  king  has  commanded  restitution  to  be  made  of  the  said  tarit  and 
the  goods  and  merchandise  taken  therein. 

Dec.  14.  To  John  Stanhope  of  Rampton  escheator    in  Notynghamshire  and 

Westminster.  Derbyshire.     Order  to  take  the  fealty  of  Robert  son  of  Ralph  Cromwell 

according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  cause  the  said 


4s    EDWARD    111. 


:,:, 


1374.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

Robert  and  Agnes  his   wife  to  have  seisin  of  the   lands  of  John  de 
Longevillers  tenant  in  chief  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by   his 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Thomas  his  son  and  heir,  who 
died  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  arc  yet  in  the  king 
hand  ;    as  the  said  Agnes,  being  sister  and  heir  of  the  said  Thorn 
proved  her  age  before  John  Foucher  late  esoheator. 

To  John  Sayville  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Like  order  ;  as  the 
said  Agnes  proved  her  age  before  John  Foucher,  and  the  king  lias 
caused  the  said  Robert's  fealty  to  be  taken  by  John  de  Stanhope. 

Dec.  1.  To  William  Coteshale,  John  Hardy  and  Edmund  Giffard  of  Arnecote 

Westminster,  keepers  of  the  priory  of  St.  Frideswide  Oxford,  which  for  particular 
causes  is  in  the  king's  hand,  and  to  every  of  them.  Order  to  deliver 
to  John  de  Walyngiord  prior  of  St.  Frideswide  for  his  abode  a  place 
near  Oxford  called  '  Bunse  chapelle,"  and  of  the  issues  of  the  priory 
so  long  as  they  shall  be  keepers  fhereof  to  pay  him  certain  weekly  and 
quarterly  sums  and  the  arrears  thereof  (if  any)  etc.  ;  as  the  king 
lately  granted  etc.   (as  above,  p.  48). 

Membrane  5. 

Nov.  16.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Westminster.  Order,  if  John  Froille  late  escheator  did  not  by  virtue  of  the  king's 
command  deliver  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Devenissh 
tenant  in  chief  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands,  to  take  of  her  an 
oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence 
of  John  de  Foxle  knight  and  Stephen  Hayme  to  whom  the  king  has 
committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  thereof,  or  of  their  attorneys 
if  being  warned  they  will  attend,  to  assign  her  dower  of  the  said  lands 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said  husbands  death,  together 
with  the  issues  of  such  dower  since  24  August  in  the  47th  year  of  tin- 
reign,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ; 
as  on  that  day  the  king  ordered  John  Froille  then  escheator  to  take 
of  her  an  oath  and  assign  her  dower  as  aforesaid  ;  and  the  said 
escheator  died  before  dower  was  delivered  to  her,  as  the  king  has 
learned. 

Nov.  28.  To  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk,  John  de  Buttetourte, 
Westminster.  John  de  Cavendissh.  .John  de  Clynton,  Thomas  de  Ingelby.  Henry  de 
Arderne,  Simon  Pakeman,  Philip  Purfay,  John  de  Honyngton  and 
Robert  Burgiloun.  Order  not  to  meddle  in  aught  affecting  the  keeping 
of  the  peace  or  the  office  of  justice  of  oyer  and  terminer  within  the 
town  of  Co  ventre  by  virtue  of  the  king's  late  commission  appointing  them 
guardians  of  the  peace  and  nine,  eight  etc  of  them  justices  of  oyer 
and  terminer  in  Warwickshire  within  liberties  and  without,  and  to  do 
and  fulfil  certain  other  things  in  his  letters  patent  contained  :  as  by 
other  letters  patent  the  king  has  appointed  John  d<'  Cavendissh, 
Richard  de  Stafford,  Hugh  de  Segrave,  Thomas  de  tngelbj .  William  de 
Catesby,  Nicholas  Michel,  Si.no..  Licchefold  {sic),  .l<>hn  Percy  and 
Richard  de  Sheldon  guardians  of  the  peace  and  eight,  sevenetc.  of  them 
justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  that  town. 

Dec.  5.  To  John  ap  Reet  escheator  ...  Herefordshire.     Order  to  deliver  to 

Westminster.   William  brother  and  heir  of  Thomas  l,ucv  son  and  Inn  of  William  Lucy 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1374  Membrane  5 — cont. 

tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Roger  dc  Mortuo  Mari 
earl  ol  March  tenant  in  chief  late  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship, 
(seisin]  of  his  said  father's  lands  which  came  to  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Thomas,  who  died 
\\  it  hin  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  are  yet  in  the  king's  hand  ; 
as  the  said  William  brother  of  Thomas  has  proved  his  age  before  the 
escheator,  and  the  age  of  Edmund  son  and  heir  of  the  said  earl  being 
proved,  the  king  lately  took  his  homage,  and  commanded  livery  to 
be  given  him  of  the  said  earl's  lands. 

Dee.  14.  To    John    Stanhope    of    Rampton    escheator    in    Notynghamshire. 

Westminster.  Order  to  deliver  to  Agnes  sister  and  heir  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of 
John  de  Longvillers  knight  tenant  in  chief,  whom  Robert  son  of  Ralph 
Or um well  has  taken  to  wife,  a  messuage  in  Southleverton,  one  carucate 
of  land  in  the  said  town  of  Leverton  and  Northcotom,  20  acres  of 
meadow  in  Trentemerssh,  12  acres  of  meadow  in  Humburmedewe,  6s.  4e£. 
of  rent  there,  and  six  *ottages  with  appurtenances  in  Leverton  and 
Cotom  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  John 
Longevilers  and  Thomas  and  by  reason  of  her  nonage  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  John  Foucher  late  escheator, 
that  John  son  of  John  de  Longevilers  knight  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  count}'  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  of  the 
gift  and  feoffement  of  John  de  Longevilers  his  father  held  the  premises 
of  others  than  the  king,  with  reversion  for  lack  of  issue  to  the  said 
John  the  father  and  to  his  heirs,  and  that  the  said  John  the  son  died 
without  issue,  whereby  the  premises  ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift 
to  remain  to  the  said  Agnes,  the  said  Thomas  having  died  within 
age  and  in  the  king's  wardship  ;  and  on  December  13  last  her 
age  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  the  fealty  of  her  said  husband, 
and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  them  of  the  lands  of  the  said  John 
the  father. 

Membrane  4. 

Nov.  28.  To  Richard  de  Beaulieu.  Order  of  the  king's  alms  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Adam  Braynok  chaplain  23  marks  10s.  of  the  money  of  Scotland  of  his 
which  the  said  Richard  lately  arrested  for  that  the  said  Adam  would 
have  taken  the  same  to  Ireland  without  the  king's  licence.  It  is 
the  king's  will  that  the  said  Richard  be  thereof  discharged  toward 
him.  By  C. 

Nov.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  York  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the 
Westminster,  county  to  pay  to  the  king's  yeoman  Richard  de  Aldeford,  one  of  his 
palfreymen,  the  arrears  from  6  October  in  the  27th  year  of  the  reign 
as  well  of  2d.  a  day  for  his  wages  as  of  10s.  a  year  for  his  gown  and 
4s.  Sd.  a  year  for  his  shoeing,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  those  sums 
yearly  for  life,  taking  his  acquittance  for  every  payment  ;  as  on  that 
day  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  Richard 
for  his  good  service  the  daily  and  yearly  sums  above  mentioned  for 
life,  to  be  taken  every  year  by  the  hand  of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  patens. 

To  the  sheriff  of  York  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues  of 
the  county  to  pay  to  Thomas  Fyftimyle  the  arrears  since  20  December 


18    EDWARD  HI. 


137  1.  Membrane  4 — conl . 

in  the  29th  year  of  the  reign  of  2>i.  a  day.  and  henceforward  to  pay 
him  the  same  for  life,  taking  his  acquittance  for  every  payment  ;  aa 
on  the  date  mentioned  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent 

to  the  said  'I  nomas  for  his  good  service,  and  for  that  be  was  maimed 
in  the  king's  service  so  that   he    may    not  help  himself.  2>l.  a  day  for 
life  for  his  maintenance,  to  be  taken  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  patens. 

1375. 

Jan.  10.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  la  Rie.     Order  to  cause  all  manner  of 

Westminster,  wool,  cloth  and  other  goods  and  merchandise  of  merchants  tit"  Genoa 
(Janua)  taken  out  of  their  tarits  which  are  or  may  be  found  in  the 
town  of  la  Rye  to  be  restored  and  delivered  to  the  said  merchants 
or  to  the  bearer  Visolus  de  Janua  their  attorney  by  indenture  containing 
the  quantity  thereof,  suffering  the  said  merchants  or  Visolus  to  lade 
the  same  in  ships  and  freely  without  let  to  carry  them  whither  they 
will  without  payment  of  custom  or  subsidy  to  the  king's  use.  and 
when  they  shall  have  so  done  certifying  in  chancery  all  and  singular 
the  goods  and  merchandise  delivered  together  with  the  said  indenture  ; 
as  by  advice  of  the  council  the  king  has  taken  order  for  full  restitution 
of  the  wool,  cloth  and  goods  whatsoever  taken  out  of  the  said  tarits. 

1374  Membrane  3. 

Nov.  26.  To  Thomas  de   Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  deliver   to 

Westminster.  William  Tauk,  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardship  of  the 
lands  which  were  of  Robert  de  Notyngham,  a  messuage  with  garden 
adjacent  and  58  acres  of  land  at  Sharstede  and  33  acres  of  land  and 
45  acres  of  wood  in  Peddyngge  which  are  held  by  knight  service  of  the 
archbishopric  of  Canterbury,  now  void  and  in  the  king's  hand,  saving 
to  Thomasia  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Robert  her  dower  thereof,  and 
to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  all  other  his  lands 
held  of  the  said  archbishopric  in  '  gavelkynde  '  or  of  other  lords,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  said  Robert's  death  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Robert 
held  the  premises  in  Sharstede  and  Peddynge  as  above  mentioned 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  one  toft  with  one  dovecote,  a  grange,  2S(i.l 
acres  of  land  and  1  acre  of  wood  at  Sharstede,  and  one  messuage, 
one  croft  containing  4  acres  of  land,  179£  acres  of  land  and  pasture 
for  100  sheep  at  Neweland  in  Tenham  likewise  of  the  said  archbishopric 
in  '  gavelkynde,'  and  divers  lands  in  that  county  of  divers  other  lords, 
that  Robert  son  of  James  son  of  the  said  Robert  is  his  cousin  and  next 
heir  in  regard  to  the  said  lands  held  by  knight  service,  and  that  the 
said  Robert  son  of  .James  aged  I  years,  and  John  aged  8  years,  Robert 
aged  7  years  and  Thomas  aged  5  years  sons  of  the  said  Robert  de 
Notyngham  are  his  next  liens  m  regard  to  the  said  lands  held  in 
'gavelkynde.' 

Dee.   11.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  and    Bel  kes   for  the  time   being.      Order  of 

We.stiim.-i.  i     the   issues  of  his   hailiwick   to  pay   to   Roger  Cheyne   the  arrears  since 

1 1  .January  m  the  38th  year  of  the  reign  of  1>)/.  a  year,  and  henceforward 
to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year  for  life,  taking  bis  acquittance  for 
every  payment  ;    as  on  the  date  mentioned  the  king  by  letters  patent 

granted  to  the  said  Rogei  KM.  a  year  to  be  taken  at  Baste)  and 
Michaelmas  bj  even  portions  l>\   the  bands  of  the  sheriff  during  bia 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


L874. 


Membrane  3 — cont. 


life  or  until  other  order  should  be  taken  for  his  estate,  also  one  gown 
a  year  of  the  suit  of  the  esquires  of  the  king's  household  in  like  manner 
as  they  should  take  their  gowns  of  the  king. 
Et  >  rat  /)«/<  n8. 


L875. 

.Ian.  1. 


To  Adam  de  Hoghton,  Roger  de  Pilkynton,  William  de  Nessefeld, 
\\  estminster.  Thomas  de  Sandford  and  John  de  Dent.  Order  not  to  proceed  to  take 
any  indictments  or  processes  or  to  do  aught  else  concerning  the  office  of 
justice,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  late  letters  patent  appointing  them 
the  said  Adam  and  Roger,  John  duke  of  Lancastre  and  Godfrey 
l'oljaumbe  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 
in  Lancashire,  and  of  divers  his  later  letters  patent  joining  with  them 
the  said  William,  Thomas  and  John  and  Roger  de  Kirketon,  nor  at 
their  peril  to  meddle  therein,  unless  so  it  be  that  either  the  said  duke, 
the  said  Godfrey  or  the  said  Roger  de  Kirketon  be  present  ;  as  by 
his  said  letters  the  king  appointed  the  said  Adam,  Roger  de  Pilkyngton, 
the  said  duke  and  Godfrey  to  hear  and  determine  felonies,  treasons, 
trespasses,  conspiracies,  oppressions,  extortions,  forgeries,  champerties, 
forestallings,  damages,  grievances  and  excesses  in  that  county  whatso- 
ever, and  to  do  and  fulfil  certain  other  things  therein  contained,  after 
joining  their  said  fellows  for  all  purposes  aforesaid,  so  that  they, 
seven,  six,  five,  four,  three  or  two  of  them,  of  whom  it  is  the  king's 
will  that  the  said  duke,  Godfrey  or  Roger  de  Kirketon  should  be  one, 
should  proceed  to  do  and  fulfil  all  and  singular  the  premises. 


Jan.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Leicester  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues 

Westminster,  of  the  county  to  pay  to  Thomas  de  Thedyngworth  the  arrears  since 
1  June  in  the  31st  year  of  the  reign  of  3d.  a  day  and  14s.  Sd.  a  year, 
and  henceforward  to  pay  him  those  daily  and  yearly  sums  at 
Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 
as  on  the  date  mentioned  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  to  the  said 
Thomas  3d.  a  day  for  life,  10s.  a  year  for  his  gown  and  4s.  8d.  for  his 
shoeing  to  be  taken  at  the  said  terms  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  patens. 


1374  Membrane  2. 

Dec.  6.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  cause 

Westminster,  a  recognisance  for  1,000  marks  to  the  king  made  on  13  June  in  the 
46th  year  of  his  reign  by  William  de  Elmham,  William  de  Kerdeston 
and  Ralph  de  Shelton  knights  to  be  cancelled  upon  the  exchequer 
rolls,  thereof  discharging  the  said  William,  William  and  Ralph  ;  as 
the  same  is  sent  to  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  among  the  estreats  of 
chancery,  as  the  king  is  assured  by  inspection  of  the  chancery  rolls  ; 
and  that  recognisance  was  made  as  security  that  the  said  Ralph,  who 
was  by  the  king's  letters  patent  appointed  one  of  the  collectors  in 
Xorffolk  of  the  subsidy  of  50,000Z.  to  be  taken  of  the  parishes  of 
England  lately  granted  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  the  realm, 
should  truly  content  the  king  of  the  subsidy  falling  upon  that  county, 
as  it  clearly  appears  to  the  council  ;  and  by  certificate  of  the  said 
treasurer  and  barons  now  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command 
it  is  found  that  the  said  Ralph  and  his  fellows  collectors  of  the  said 
subsidy  have  accounted  at  the  exchequer  for  the  same  and  contented 
the  king  thereof  ;    and  the  king  would  not  that  the  said  William, 


48  EDWARD  III  59 


1374.  M*  '"f>r<ine   2 — cont. 

William  and  Ralph  or  any  of  them  or  their  heirs  should  by  accident 
be  impeached  hereafter  by  colour  of  that  recognisance.  By  C. 

Dee.  5.  To  Ralph  de  Braoebrigge,  John  do  Tothill  and  Thomas  de  Wodhall. 

Westminster.  Order  that  they  and  every  of  them  shall  deliver  without  delay  to  Bugh 

Kene  clerk    William  de  Calthorne  and  William  Spynk  of  Sprotburgh 

the  manor  of  Hathelsay  and  a  messuage  and  five  bovates  of  land 
in  West  hathelsay,  a  piece  of  land  called  Squallay  and  Ql.  of  rent 
appointed  for  a  chantry  there  excepted,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  same  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and 
to  John  filz  William  knight  and  William  de  Calthorne  other  lands 
in  Baildon  co.  York  which  were  of  Thomas  de  Stapelton  tenant  in 
chief,  and  by  his  death  were  at  the  king's  command  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  William  de  Ergum  late  escheator,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken,  meddling  no  further  therewith,  for  it  is  the  king's 
will  that  they  and  every  of  them  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him  ; 
as  lately  while  a  plea  was  pending  before  the  king  concerning  the 
premises  between  the  king  and  Joan  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Thomas 
de  Stapelton,  Thomas  de  Metham  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  sister  and 
heir  of  the  said  Thomas  de  Stapelton.  the  said  John  filz  William, 
William  de  Calthorne,  Hugh  Kene  and  William  Spynk,  the  king  by 
letters  patent  committed  to  the  said  Ralph,  John  de  Tothill  and 
Thomas  de  Wodhall  the  keeping  of  the  premises  with  the  issues  thereof 
since  they  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  and  all  things  thereto 
belonging,  to  hold  so  long  as  the  said  plea  should  be  pending  without 
debate,  so  that  they  should  answer  for  such  issues  and  for  all  other- 
issues  of  the  premises  arising  to  the  king  or  to  others  to  whom  it  should 
be  adjudged  that  the  premises  ought  to  pertain  ;  and  now  the  said 
plea  being  fully  debated  before  the  king  it  is  determined  that  the 
king's  hand  shall  be  removed,  and  that  the  said  manor  and  the  premises 
in  Westhathelsay  (with  the  exception  aforesaid)  shall  with  the  mesne 
issues  be  delivered  to  the  said  Hugh,  William  de  Calthorne  and  William 
Spynk,  and  the  premises  in  Baildon  with  the  mesne  issues  to  the  said 
John  filz  William  and  William  de  Calthorne,  as  appears  by  the  record 
and  process  which  for  particular  causes  the  king  has  caused  to  come 
before  him  in  chancery. 

1375. 

Jan.  20.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  la  Pole,  and  to  all  who 

W(  mint  r.  have  authority  to  arrest  ships  in  that  port,  or  their  representatives  there. 
Order  by  mainprise  of  Master  Henry  Vevele  '  masoun  '  and  .Ionian 
de  Barton  citizens  of  London  to  dearrest  without  delay  a  ship  called 
the  '  Margarele  '  of  Warham  of  48  tuns  burden  and  two  high  tombs 
of  marble  for  the  earl  of  Arundel]  and  Eleanor  late  his  wife,  one  g] 
stone  for  the  bishop  of  Winchester  and  divers  other  things  therein, 
if  by  them  arrested  for  the  present  expedition  over  sea  and  for  no 
other  cause,  to  be  taken  thence  to  the  port  of  London,  there  unladed, 
and  thence  to  sail  on  the  king's  Sen  ice  ;  as  the  said  citizens  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery  have  mainperned  for  .John  Bwan  master,  Thomas 
Gome,   William   Dagenel,  John   Eerstone,   Robert   Baundre,   William 

Saundre  and  .John    Bayle  yeomen  of  the  said  ship   there  an.  -I'd   t"i 

the  said  expedition  it  i-    aid,  which  ship  the  -aid  master  .u\i\  yeomen 

an-   lading    with    the   goods  aforesaid     that    they   shall    bring    the   same 

so  laded  to  London  with  what  Bpeed  thej   conveniently  may,  shall 


80 


CALENDAB    OF  CLOSE    ROLLS. 


L876. 


L374. 

Dee.  6. 


Membrane  2 — cont. 

there  unlade  it.  and  shall  be  ready  with  the  said  ship  when  unladed 
to  .^ail  on  the  king's  service  as  shall  be  appointed  them. 


To  William  de  la  Vale  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order  to  remove 
ster.  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  4  acres 
of  land  in  Langrigg  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  a  felony 
committed  by  Thomas  son  of  Isabel  deceased,  if  in  the  king's  hand 
for  that  cause  and  for  none  other,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  since  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas  for  which  answer  is  not  yet 
made  to  the  king  ;  as  lately  at  the  petition  of  John  de  Langrigg, 
son  and  heir  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Thomas,  averring  that 
the  premises  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  the  said  Thomas, 
being  tenant  thereof  by  the  courtesy  of  England  after  the  said  Maud's 
death  of  the  said  John's  heritage,  committed  a  felony  for  which  he 
was  outlawed,  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  make  inquisition 
by  true  men  of  his  bailiwick  and  to  certify  in  chancery  what  lands  of 
the  said  John's  heritage  the  said  Thomas  so  held  by  the  courtesy  on 
the  day  that  felony  was  committed,  at  what  time  he  died,  whether 
the  said  John  was  next  heir  of  the  said  Maud,  whether  he  was  outlawed 
for  the  felony  or  no,  of  whom  the  premises  are  held,  how  and  by  what 
service,  and  all  other  the  circumstances,  and  he  certified  that  the  said 
Thomas,  father  of  the  said  John,  on  the  day  he  committed  the  felony 
for  which  he  was  outlawed,  held  the  premises  of  the  said  John's  heritage 
by  the  courtesy  of  England  after  the  said  Maud's  death,  that  he  died 
on  Michaelmas  day  in  the  30th  year  of  the  reign,  that  the  said  John 
is  next  heir  of  the  said  Maud  and  of  full  age,  and  that  the  premises 
are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Dec.  4.  To  Roger  Lascels  late  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  two  messuages  in 
Ousegate  and  Conyngstrette  in  York,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  commanded  the  treasurer  and  the  barons 
of  the  exchequer  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  wherefore  the  same 
were  taken  into  his  hand  by  John  Scotherskelf  late  escheator,  and 
they  certified  that  upon  search  of  the  rolls  and  memoranda  of  the 
exchequer  it  is  found  in  a  roll  of  account  of  the  said  John  late  escheator 
in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland,  Cumberland  and  Westmorland  that 
he  took  the  said  messuages  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  he  found  by 
inquisition,  before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  Thomas  Dorant  of 
York  gave  them  to  a  certain  chantry  in  the  church  of  Holy  Cross 
York,  that  they  are  held  in  chief  in  burgage  of  the  city  of  York,  and 
that  the  said  chantry  is  withdrawn  eighteen  years  past,  and  for  that 
cause  they  are  in  the  king's  hand  ;  and  on  27  October  in  the  6th  year 
of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  licence  to  the  said  Thomas 
to  give  and  assign  the  same  to  a  chaplain  to  celebrate  divine  service 
in  the  said  church  for  ever  under  a  particular  form. 


Jan.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  Dabernoun,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified  for  the  exercise 
of  that  office,  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Jan.  24.  To  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 

Westminster,  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant,  and  to  all  and  singular  the 


48    EDWARD    III  6] 


1374.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

mayors,  bailiffs  and  other  the  king's  ministers  within  the  liberty  of 
the  said  ports.  Order  with  all  speed  to  cause  delivery  to  be  made 
to  the  merchants  of  Genoa  or  to  their  attorney  in  that  behalf  by 
indentures  containing  the  description  thereof  and  the  measure  and 
colours  of  cloth,  if  any  there  be,  of  all  their  goods  and  merchandise 
lately  taken  at  sea  by  the  king's  subjects,  brought  within  the  said 
liberty,  and  now  arrested  there  at  the  suit  of  the  said  merchants, 
in  whose  hands  soever  the  same  shall  be,  any  arrest  thereupon  made 
at  the  suit  of  any  man  or  the  king's  commands  to  the  contrary  not- 
withstanding, certifying  in  chancery  the  parties  to  such  indentures 
when  made. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  SOd* 

Indenture  made  between  John  atte  Yat  of  the  parish  of  Wyveles- 
combe  co.  Somerset  and  Richard  Samoun  of  Schalyngford  co.  Berk 
witnessing  that  the  said  John  has  hereby  given  to  the  said  Richard 
and  his  heirs  all  his  estate  in  the  manor  of  Southcote  co.  Berkes,  which 
he  holds  for  life  with  reversion  to  the  said  Richard  and  to  his  heirs, 
rendering  to  the  said  John  for  life  at  Wivelescombe  9  marks  lid. 
yearly  at  Whitsuntide  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  so  that  the 
said  John  shall  make  the  said  Richard  an  acquittance  for  payment  of 
that  rent  at  every  term,  power  being  reserved  to  distrain  for  arrears, 
and  in  case  the  rent  shall  be  six  weeks  in  arrear  to  enter  again  and 
hold  the  said  manor,  into  whose  hands  soever  it  shall  come,  until 
recompense  be  made  for  rent  and  arrears  and  for  all  costs  ;  and  for 
better  security  the  said  Richard  shall  be  bound  to  the  said  John  in 
40/.  by  a  recognisance  made  before  the  mayor  of  the  staple  of 
Westminster  to  be  paid  at  a  certain  dajr  therein  contained,  the  said 
John  covenanting  that  such  recognisance  shall  be  suspended  so  long 
as  the  said  rent  be  paid  during  his  life  at  the  terms  aforesaid  or  within 
six  weeks  after,  and  even  if  the  same  be  six  weeks  in  arrear.  provided 
that  within  a  year  the  said  Richard  or  someone  on  his  behalf  shall 
pay  double  the  arrears,  and  that  after  his  death  the  recognisance 
-hall  be  annulled.  Witnesses:  Henry  Percehay,  Walter  Clopton, 
Richard  Siddenham,  Robert  Cherleton,  Richard  Here.  Dated 
2G   January  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  in  the  chancery 
at    Westminster,  2G  January. 

Writing  of  Hawise  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Dighton  in  her  widow- 
hood, being  a  quitclaim  to  .John  Queldrik  and  John  Vautorde  citizens 
and  fishmongers  of  London  of  all  right  in  a  messuage.  80 acres  ol  land. 
f>  acres  of  meadow  and  4s.  2'\<l.  of  rent  in  Coveham,  Horsle,  Okham 
and  Walton  co.  Surrey,  and  in  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  those  tow  ns  w  hatSOever  whereof  she  was  ever  seised.  Dated  London, 
26  January  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  January. 

Writing  of  .John  de  Wyndesore  the  younger  and  Philip  Gasqian, 
being  a  release  to  Roger  de  Berlaston  of  Cantebrigge  of  all  actions 
by  reason  of  a  warranty  by  the  said  Roger  made  to  them  of  a  manor  in 
Cotenham  which  was  sometime  of  Robert  del  Isle  knight.     Witn 

*  Membrane   I   ia  blank. 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1374,  Membrane  30d — cont. 

Adam  Hobeldod,  William  Hanygfeld,  James  Payn.     Dated  Cantebrigge, 
11  January  47   Edward  III. 
Mi  morandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  January  this  year. 

Jan.  2(>.  John  Cockes  parson  of  Compton  Pauncefot  to  John  Hamely  knight 

Westminster,  and  Thomas  his  son.  Recognisance  for  216Z.  4s.  Sd.,  to  be  levied, 
m  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Somerset. 

Writing  of  Robert  Maunser  clerk  and  Matthew  Rouhtisdale  chaplain, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  John  Mandyon  of  Hadelegh,  Juliana  his  wife 
and  John  their  son,  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John 
Mandyon,  of  all  the  lands  which,  by  virtue  of  a  fine  to  them  the  said 
Robert  and  Matthew  lately  levied  in  the  king's  court  by  Thomas  Wallere, 
the  said  John  and  Juliana  hold  for  the  life  of  Juliana  with  reversion 
to  the  said  Robert  and  Matthew.  Dated  Hadlegh,  Wednesday  before 
the  Purification  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  February. 

Feb.  6.  Richard  de  le  Laund,  John  de  Alkebarewe  of  Pyncebek  and  John  de 

Westminster.  Wyke  to  John  Haliday  citizen  and  skinner  of  London.  Recognisance 
for  54/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels 
in  Lincolnshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

The  said  Richard,  John  de  Alkebarewe  and  John  de  Wyke  to  Simon 
de  Radeclif  citizen  and  skinner  of  London.  Recognisance  for  36/. 
to  be  levied  etc.  as  above. 

The  said  Richard,  John  and  John  to  John  Holand  citizen  and  skinner 
of  London.     Recognisance  for  50  marks,  to   be  levied  etc.  as  above. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Walter  Paunfeld  of  Cantebrigge  '  goldsmyth,'  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Quenburgh,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  lands,  rents  and  services,  meadows,  feedings  and  pastures  in  the 
towns  of  Fenditton,  Hornyngeseye  and  Eye.  Witnesses  :  William 
Cheyne  knight,  William  Dengayn,  Robert  de  Bassyngburne,  Edmund 
Forster,  John  Morys.     Dated  9  February  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  February. 

March  6.  William  de  Kellesey  to  Thomas  de  Middelton  clerk.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  121.  9,9.  9d.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

March  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Hugh  de 
Westminster.  Candelesby  clerk  official  of  the  archdeacon  of  Ely,  by  mainprise  of 
William  Derby  and  Andrew  Hervy  of  London  to  stay  the  exigents 
against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  at  the  day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the 
suit  of  Maud  de  Beylham  of  Cantebrigge  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  the  said  Maud  is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  to 
render  her  40s.,  that  by  the  said  writ  he  is  put  is  exigents  in  that  county 


48  EDWARD  III.  63 


1371.  Membram  30d—cont. 

to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  them  to  answer  her,  and 
that  he  is  ready  to  answer  her  and   stand  to  right   in  all  thing 

and    the    said    William    and    Andrew     have    mainperned    in    chancery 
under  a    pain   of   20/.   to  have  him   before  the  said  Justices  at  the 

day  named. 

March  10.        William  Gamboun  the  long's  Berjeant  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  eon- 
Westminster,  vent  of  Haylyng,  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  thereof  as  John  de 
Thornton  deceased  had  at  the  king's  request.  By  p.s.  [30037.1 

March  14.        Alexander  de  la  Boutillerie  the  king's  Serjeant  i>  sent  to  the  prior 
Westminster,  and  convent  of  Kirkeham.  to  take  for  life  Buch  maintenance  thereo 

Walter  Hoseye  deceased  had  at  the  king's  requ<  By  ]>.s.  1 30045.] 

April  4.  Thomas  de  Illeford  one  of  the  king's  sumpt   rs  is  sent  to  the  master 

Ki  and   brethren   of   the   hospital   of   St.    Mary   Illeford,   to   take   for   life 

Langley.       such  maintenance  thereof  as  Stephen  Sirebeux   deceased  had  at   the 

late  king's  request.  By  p.s.  ( ;}(M )7r>.  J 

April  7.  William  Hardyng  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Dunstaple, 

Westminster,  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  therein  as  John  de  Watford  deceased 

had  at  the  king's  request.  By  p.s.  [30080.] 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  by  Walter  Southous  and  William  de 
Fryskney  of  London,  made  in  chancery  28  January  48  Edward  111 
for  Alan  de  Ditton  clerk  under  a  pain  of  20/..  that  he  shall  not  depart 
to  any  foreign  parts,  nor  send  any  thither  without  the  king's  special 
licence,  nor  do,  attempt  or  procure  aught  that  may  tend  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown  or  of  the  people  or  laws  of  the  realm. 

Membrane  29d. 

Indenture  made  between  i  lame  Eleanor  who  was  w  ife  of  Sir  John  de 
Norwic'  of  the  one  part  and  Sir  John  Avenell,  Sir  Baldwin  Seint  George 
knights  and  John  Dunton  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  that  whereas 
by  deed  of  feoffment  she  has  given  to  the  said  Sir  John  Avenell, 
Baldwin  and  John  all  her  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  counties  of 
Cantebrigge,  Huntyngdon,  Bedford  and  Suffolk,  it  is  upon  condition 
that  if  she  shall  remain  unmarried  or  shall  marry  with  consent  oi  the 
said  feoffees  and  by  her  own  counsel  .-he  shall  have  the  said  lands  to 
her  and  the  heirs  ol  her  I  <  dj  by  Sir  John  de  Norwyc',  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  such   issue  to  her  right   heirs,   hut    il   she  shall   he  ravished, 

or  shall  marry  without   their  assent  and  her  own  counsel,  the  said 
feoffees  Bhall  have  and  hold  the  same  during  her  life  w  ithout  gainsaying, 
saving  always  the  inheritance  to  the  heirs  ol  her  bod}  aforesaid,  and 
for  lack  of  such  issue  to  her  right  heirs.     1  >at<  d  W\  mpel  co.  ( lantebrig 
Monday  after  the  Purification   18  Edward  III.     French. 
Memorandum  ol   acknowl  at   l>\    the  parties,   l<>  Februai 

Feb.  4.  T<>  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  ports  of  Dovorre,  Maldon  or 

Westminster.  Great  Jernemuth.     <  hrder  to  suffer  brother  Richard  ( iosteseye,  a  monk 

Of  Thetford,   freely   without    let    in   one  ol    those   poitfl  to  pass  <>\  er  sea 

*  In  the  text  Childernelangele.     [n  the  warrant  Stephen  Sirel i  rihed 

as  jadya  chart' 


,  j  CALENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1374,  Membrane  2!W — cont. 

taking  40a.  tot  his  expenses  and  one  letter  of  exchange  for  100  marks, 
any  command  of  the  king  to  them  addressed  to  the  contrary 
not  w  ithstanding,  provided  he  carry  with  him  nought  to  the  prejudice  of 
the  Uin<:  or  realm  ;  as  he  is  about  to  journey  thither  with  the  king's 
licence. 

Writing  of  Robert  Little  citizen  of  London,  being  a  surrender  and 
quitclaim  to  John  Ive  clerk,  John  Wentebrigge,  John  Middelton, 
Peter  \V\  sebech  clerk  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  John  Ive  of  all  lands 
hereinafter  mentioned  which  were  held  by  Peter  Tebaud  ;  reciting  a 
fine  levied  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  Westminster  three 
weeks  after  Michaelmas  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  of  a  tenement 
called  Douedales  in  the  parish  of  Camberwell  co.  Surrey,  by  name  of  a 
messuage.  160  acres  of  land,  15  acres  of  meadow,  12  acres  of  wood  and 
30s.  of  rent  in  Camberwell  on  that  day  held  by  Peter  Tebaud  of  Sleford 
co.  Lincoln  for  a  term  of  six  years,  and  40  acres  of  pasture  on  that 
day  held  by  William  Walworth  citizen  of  London  for  a  term  of  four 
years  by  demise  of  the  said  Robert  and  Joan  his  Avife,  between  the 
said  John  Middelton,  John  Wentebrigge,  John  Ive  and  Peter  Wisebech 
plaintiffs  and  the  said  Robert  and  Joan  deforciants,  the  said  deforciants 
thereby  granting  the  premises  to  the  said  plaintiffs  after  the  terms 
aforesaid  ;  the  said  Peter  Tebaud  having  after  surrendered  and  demised 
to  the  said  Robert  his  estate  therein. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  February. 

Feb.  18.  Hugh  de  Westwyk  clerk  to  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk.     Recognis- 

Westminster.  ance  for  501.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Northumberland. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Gynes,  cousin  and  heir  of  John  Geynes,  granting 
with  warranty  to  John  Doget  called  Boterwick  and  Alice  his  wife  and  to 
the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John  Doget  the  reversion  after  the 
death  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  the  said  John  Geynes  of  1|  rood  of 
meadow  in  the  towns  of  Westminster  and  Eye  which  she  holds  for 
life  with  reversion  to  him  the  said  Thomas.  Witnesses  :  Richard 
Rook  the  elder,  Roger  Subdury,  William  Brenge,  Thomas  atte 
Rythe,  John  Lorymer,  John  Lorchoun.  Dated  Westminster,  6  July 
47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   19  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Gillyng,  being  a  general  release  to  Henry 
de  Ingelby  and  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerks,  executors  of  David  de 
Wollore  clerk,  of  all  actions  real  and  personal.  Dated  London, 
16  February  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  February. 

Writing  of  William  Archebaud,  being  a  release  to  the  king,  of  his 
good  will  made  for  that  the  king  of  his  favour  has  taken  other  order 
for  the  said  William's  estate,  of  10  marks  a  year  to  be  taken  at  the 
exchequer  at  the  usual  terms  so  long  as  he  should  remain  in 
the  king's  service  in  his  household,  and  101.  a  year  after  he 
should  depart  thence  with  the  king's  leave,  which  sum  the  king 
of  his  favour  by  letters  patent  formerly  granted  to  the  said  William 


48   EDWARD    TIT. 


1374.  Membram    29d—cont. 

for   life  or  until    the  order  should   be    taken   for   his  ;    and 

covenant  that,  whereas  by  accident  he  has  losl  the  said  letters,  if 
they  he  found  they  shall  be  cancelled,  together  with  the  enrolment 
thereof  in  chancery,  to  the  end  that  he  nor  any  other  in  his  name  may 
ever  have  profit  or  advantage  thereby.  Dated  London,  K>  February 
48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  February. 

March  6.  To  W.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Older,  for  particular  cau 
Westminster  before  the  quinzane  of  Easter  next  at  latest  to  certify  in  chancery 
under  his  seal  what  and  how  many  benefices  within  the  archbishop's 
diocese,  as  well  archdeaconries  and  other  dignities  as  parish  churches, 
prebends  and  chapels,  are  in  the  hands  of  aliens,  their  descriptions, 
how  they  are  severally  called,  the  yearly  value  of  every  one  of  them 
not  by  tax  or  extent  in  the  archbishop's  registers  but  according  to 
the  true  value  thereof,  the  names  of  all  and  singular  such  alien  incum- 
bents, and  of  all  those  whether  native  or  alien  of  whatsoever  estate  or 
condition  who  in  the  name  and  by  the  authority  of  aliens  hold,  occupy 
or  administer  such  benefices  at  farm,  by  proxy  or  otherwise,  how 
long  they  have  so  done,  and  whether  any  of  the  said  aliens  are  resident 
or  no.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera .] 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

S.  bishop  of  London  and  twelve  other  bishops. 
The  guardian  of  the  spiritualities  of  the   bishopric  of   Ely  and 
of  the   bishopric   of  Worcester  during   the    vacancy   of   those 
sees. 
The  chapter  of  St.  Peter  York  in  the  dean's  absence  during  the 

vacancy  of  the  archiepiscopal  a 
The  archdeacon  of  Rvchemund. 
[Ibid.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  concerning 
benefices  in  his  bailiwick  ;  omitting  the  words  '  in  the  archbishop's 
registers.'  By  K.  and  < '. 

[Ibid.] 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout   England. 

[Ibid.] 

Membrane  28d. 

•Tan.  26.         To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Annas. 
Westminster.  John    Woderoue    and    William    de    Rothelaj    o\    Yorkshire    to    b1 
altogether  the  taking  of  the  bodies  of  William  de  Brumpton,  Nich< 
de   I. 'line.   .Maud    Barbour  and  Margaret    Maudeservant    Barbour  by 
virtue  of  the  king's  late  writ,  and  the  further  execution  of  the  said 
w  i  it  :    as  at  the  suit  of  Isabel  wife  of  William  Barebour,  John  Horsford 
■  ■I  Watford  and  John  .-on  of  William  Barbour,  averring  that  the 
William    de    Brumpton,    Nicholas.    Maud    and    Margaret    grievoi 
threatened  them  the  .said  [Catherine  {sic),  John  and  John  in  life  and 
limbs,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  i  to  cause  thi  ndants 

to  com-  I  them,  and  to  compel  them  to  find  mainpen  der 

a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  keeping  the  peace  and 
for  their  good  behaviour  toward  the  said  Isabel,  John  and  John, 
that  they  should  not  cans,,  nor  procure  hurt  or  harm  to  the  -aid  Isabel, 
John  and  John,  and  if  they  should  refi  commil  <!"•  said  defendants 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1374,  Membrane  2Sd — cont. 

to  safe  custody  in  Neugate  gaol  until  they  would  willingly  so  do,  by 
virtue  whereof  the  Bheriffs  are  purposing  to  take  and  imprison  the 
defendants,  as  the  king  has  learned,  and  thereupon  the  said  defendants 
have  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  they  are  ready  to  find  such 
mainprise,  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  John  de 
Annas  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  main- 
perncd  for  the  defendants  and  for  every  of  them  under  a  pain  of  201. 
to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use  if  the  said  defendants  shall  cause  or 
procure  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Isabel,  John  Horsford  and  John  son 
of  William. 

Jan.  28.  To  John  Chidyok  the  elder.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  de 
Westminster.  Wyndcsore  prior  of  Merton  and  Richard  de  Mere  clerk  of  Gloucester- 
shire to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  Master  Richard  Haxston  by 
virtue  of  the  king's  late  command  ;  as  upon  information  received  that 
contrar3r  to  the  king's  prohibition  he  departed  to  foreign  parts, 
procured  there  many  things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  realm, 
and  brought  them  for  execution  within  the  realm,  in  contempt  of  the 
king,  to  the  prejudice,  hurt  and  disturbance  of  the  people  and  contrary 
to  the  statutes  and  the  ordinance  provided  in  that  behalf,  the  king 
by  letters  patent  appointed  the  said  John  to  arrest  the  said  Richard 
Haxston  by  his  body  wherever  found  within  liberties  or  without, 
and  bring  him  before  the  king  and  council  there  to  answer  touching 
the  premises  ;  but  the  said  prior  and  clerk,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him  under  a  pain  of  401.  that  he  shall 
not  without  the  king's  special  licence  depart  or  send  to  foreign  parts, 
nor  do,  attempt  or  procure  aught  which  may  tend  to  the  prejudice 
of  the  king  or  crown,  the  people  or  laws  of  the  realm. 
The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir. 

Charter  of  Eleanor  who  was  wife  of  John  Northwich  knight,  giving 
with  warranty  to  John  Avenel  knight,  Baldwin  de  Sancto  Georgeo 
knight  and  John  de  Dunton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  her  lands 
which  she  has  by  inheritance  after  the  death  of  Richard  Fraunceys 
her  father  in  the  towns  and  fields  of  Wynepol,  Orewelle,  Harlton, 
Everesdon,  Malkton,  Whaddon,  Crandon  and  Pappe  worth  cos. 
Cantcbrige  and  Huntyngdon  and  of  Wrastelyngworthe  co.  Bedford, 
with  the  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  hedges,  ditches,  ponds, 
hays,  rents  and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs,  wards,  marriages, 
escheats,  commodities  and  reversions  thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  : 
John  Dengayne  knight,  William  de  Pappeworthe,  William  Sergaunt, 
John  Walter,  Adam  de  Kent.  Dated  Wynepol,  Sunday  before  the 
Conversion  of  St.  Paul  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  February  this  year. 

Feb.  10.         Thomas  de  Sancto  Albano  late  serjeant  of  London  to  Robert  de 
Westminster.  Gerlethorp  clerk.     Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Feb.  17.         To    the    sheriff  of    Suthampton.     Order  by  mainprise  of   Richard 

Westminster.  Fraunceys  of  London.  Nicholas  de  Hilderston  of  Norffolk  and  William 

de  Lytlyngton  of  Cambridgeshire  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  bodies  of 

William  Perham  and  John  Castelford,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 

justices  of  the  Bench  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter ;    as  the  king  has 


48   EDWARD   III.  87 


1374.  Membrane  2Sd—con(. 

learned  that  William  bishop  of  Winchester  is  impleading  William 
Castelford  clerk,  the  said  William  Perham  and  John  before  the  said 
justices,  for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  that  he  has  so  far  proceeded 
in  that  plea  that  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  has  ordered  the  Bheriff 
to  take  the  said  defendants'  bodies  wherever  found  in  his  bailiwick, 
so  as  to  have  them  hefore  the  said  justices  on  the  day  named  to  answer 
the  bishop  concerning  that  trespass,  wherefore  on  behalf  of  the  said 
William  Perham  and  John  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  a  May, 
as  they  are  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and 
the  said  Richard  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  them  before  the  said 
justices  at  that  day  to  answer  as  aforesaid. 

Writing  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  William  Langeleye  of  Rykemeres- 
worth,  being  a  confirmation  of  the  estate  of  William  Xeuport 
citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London  in  the  manor  of  Aruyngton  CO. 
Cantebrigge  of  her  right  and  heritage,  which  her  said  husband  by 
charter  lately  gave  to  the  said  William  Xeuport,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
with  houses,  lands,  hays,  gardens,  hedges,  ditches,  wards,  marriages, 
fees,  reliefs,  heriots,  escheats,  homages,  services,  rents,  suits  of  courts, 
fines,  amercements,  etc.  ;  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  the  said 
William  Xeuport,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  said  manor  with  all 
appurtenances,  rights  and  commodities  as  aforesaid.  Dated  Sunday  after 
St.  Matthias  48  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  Walter  Aldebury  canon 
of  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London,  William  de  Halden,  William 
Naffreton,  Walter  Southous,  John  Boterwyk. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  February- 

Feb.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Busard 
Westminster,  clerk,  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Fynchingfeld  clerk  and  John  Charnev 
to  stay  until  three  weeks  after  Easter  next  the  taking  of  his  body  by 
virtue  of  any  command  of  the  king  so  to  do  to  the  sheriff  now  or 
hereafter  addressed  by  reason  of  the  hospital  of  Maldon,  bringing  this 
writ  in  chancery  on  that  day  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  fears  he 
may  be  taken  and  imprisoned  without  cause  at  the  untrue  suggestion 
of  certain  his  enemies  scheming  to  grieve  him,  praying  the  king  to 
provide  for  his  peace  and  security  ;  and  the  said  John  de  Fynchingfeld 
and  John  Charney,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  20  marks  to  have  him  there  before  the  king  on  the 
day  named  to  stand  to  right  and  answer  the  king's  subjects  whatS08\  er, 
and  that  he  shall  not  in  the  mean  time  depart  to  foreign  puis  to 
prosecute  aught  to  the  prejudice  of  the  kiiiLr  or  crown. 

Membrane  27'/. 

Feb.  22.         'I'm  the  sheriffs  <>f   London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Sampson  de 
Bresyngham  "I  Kent.  John  Lynger  of  Oxfordshire,  Alexander  rlalfide 

of    I  and  John  de    Kent    of   Kent    to  stay   the  further  publication 

of  the  exigents  in  the  busting  of  London  against  William  de  <  os}  ngton 
knight  ;  as  on  his  behalf  the  king  has  learned  that  John  Joye  citizen 
and  draper  of  London  is  impleading  him  before  the  justices  "i  the 
Bench  concerning  an  alleged  debt  oi  20/.,  and  that  he  is  put  in  exigents 

in  the  Baid  busting  to  be  outlawed  for  that   he  came  not   before  the  -  ud 

justice  -  to  answer  the  said  John,  being  altogether  without  knowled 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137  I.  Membrane  27 d — cont. 

of  that  process,  wherefore  prayer  is  made  on  his  behalf  for  a  stay,  as 
he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  Sampson  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  his  body  before  he  said  justices 
the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable. 

Feb.  24.  Roger  Lanvel   '  hattere  '  has  the  like  writ  concerning  a  debt  of 

\v  stminster.  46s.  which  Richard  Russell  of  Driestoke  is  demanding  of  him,  by 
mainprise  of  William  de  Thornton  '  criour  '  and  John  Frost  of  Middlesex 
under  a  pain  of  10  marks. 

March  26.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London,  Dovorre, 
Westminster.  Sandewich  or  Jernemuth.  Order  to  suffer  John  Babyngle  clerk  in  one 
of  those  ports  freely  without  let  to  pass  over  sea  taking  one  letter  of 
exchange,  any  command  of  the  king  to  them  previously  addressed 
to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  Reynold  Hylyngton  clerk, 
John  Broune,  William  Pynchewell  of  Norffolk  and  John  Louendale 
clerk  of  Kent,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  100Z.  for  the  said  John  Babyngle,  who  with  the  king's 
licence  is  journeying  over  sea,  that  he  shall  not  there  prosecute  or 
attempt  aught  which  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown 
or  to  impair  the  laws  of  the  realm. 

Writing  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Gilbert  de  Harpedene,  giving 
with  warranty  during  her  life  to  Robert  de  Anesty  and  Elizabeth  his 
wife  81.  of  yearly  rent  which  they  were  bound  to  render  her  for 
life  for  the  manor  of  Herdyngton  co.  Middlesex.  Witnesses  :  John  de 
Estburjr,  John  James  of  Walyngford,  William  Brouns,  Richard  atte 
Merke,  John  Bernes.     Dated  20  April  48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Gilbert  de  Harpedene,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  during  her  life  to  Robert  de  Anesty  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife  and  to  their  heirs  of  81.  of  yearly  rent  wherein  they 
were  bound  to  her  for  a  manor  in  Herdyngton  co.  Middlesex  with 
the  advowson.     Witnesses  (as  the  last).     Dated  23  April  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings, 
24  April. 

Writing  of  William  de  Dethek,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Sir  Richard  Chestrefeld,  Master  Nicholas  Chaddesden,  Sir  Richard 
Tyssinton  and  Sir  Geoffrey  de  Chaddesden,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions  which  they  had  of  the  gift 
and  feoffment  of  William  de  Wakebrugge,  namely  those  which  William 
de  Wakebrugge  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de  Dethek 
father  of  the  said  William  de  Dethek,  and  of  those  which  Elizabeth 
relict  of  the  said  William  de  Wakebrugge  holds  for  life  with  reversion 
to  the  said  Richard,  Nicholas,  Richard  and  Geoffrey,  except  all  the 
lands  which  were  of  John  de  Dethek  in  Marresey  co.  Notingham, 
the  two  mills  of  le  Lee,  one  piece  of  land  and  meadow  called  Haliwellker 
in  the  fee  of  Matelok  and  a  messuage,  a  cottage  with  curtilage,  12 
acres  of  land  and  four  pieces  of  meadow  called  Giffardelond  in 
Tannesley.     Dated  London,  the  feast  of  St.  Mark  48  Edward  III. 


48  EDWARD   III. 


69 


1374. 


M>  mbrane  27 d — c 


Writing  of  William  de  Detliek,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
William  de  Weston  chaplain  warden  of  the  chantry  of  St.  Nicholas 
and  St.  Katherine  in  the  parish  church  of  Cruche,  and  to  his  successors, 

of  all  land-,  rents,  services  and  reversions  in  Lee  and  elsewhere  in 
Derbyshire  which  the  said  chaplain  holds  in  right  of  the  said  chantry, 

and  which  were  of  John  de  Detliek  father  of  the  said  William  de  Detliek. 
Dated  (as  the  last). 

Mi  niorandton     of     acknowledgment    of     the     foregoing     uriti 
25  April. 

Writing  of  George  de  Ellesworth,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Ellesworth, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Castellacre  and 
Elizabeth  ins  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  William,  of  all 
the  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  services,  homages,  wards 
reliefs,  escheats  etc.  in  the  town  of  Herdewyk,  Toft  and  Cumberton 
which  they  hold  for  the  said  Elizabeth's  Life  by  gift  and  feoffment 
of  John  Fraunceys  late  parson  of  Pappeworth  and  John  Croft  of 
Overe  with  reversion  to  the  said  George  and  his  heirs.  Dated 
Herdewyk,  Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Philip  and  St.  James  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  May. 

May  15.         To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Gilbert  de  Haydok, 

Westminster.  Matthew  de  Sotheworth,  William  de  Hornby  and  Richard  de  Ealghton 
of  Lancashire  to  staj^  altogether  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents 
against  Henry  de  Walton  in  le  Dale,  administrator  of  the  goods  and 
chattels  of  William  de  Lostoke  who  died  intestate  it  is  said,  and  the 
taking  of  his  body  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriffs  to  put  the  said  Henry  in  exigents  from  busting  to  husting 
until  outlawed  if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take 
him  and  keep  him  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the 
justices  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Martin  to  answer  William 
de  Toucestre  tailor  and  citizen  of  London  concerning  an  alleged  debt 
of  20Z.  ;  and  the  said  Henry  has  prayed  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he  is 
ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Gilbert 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  207.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  at  that 
day. 

Membrane  26d. 
March  11.        To  Pope  Gregory.     Letter  of  the  king,  acknowledging  letters  brought 
oater  to  him    by  the   bishop  of  Bangor  and  other  his  ambassadors    with 
Palace.      a  pr0posal  that  a  conference  should  be  held  by  prudent  men  on  either 
side  at  a  place  to  be  chosen  by  the  king,  for  the  purpose  of  agreeing  with 
regard  to  certain  business  laid  before  the  pope  by  the  said  ambassadors 
and  contained  in  a  schedule  enclosed  in  his  said  letters,  and  promising 
to  despatch  his  envoys  when  certified  of  the  arrival  of  the  pop 
envoys  at  Bruges  or  Calais,  whichever  the  pope  shall  prefer,  suspending 
meanwhile  the  causes  now  a  in  the  king's  court  and  Betting 

other  conditions  in  the  state  the  pope  d  aires  until  this  instant  feast 
of  St.  John  Baptisl  ;  and  requesting  to  be  informed  whioh  place  the 
pope  will  chose,  when  the  pope's  envoys  will  be  there,  and  ol  their 
quality,  praying  also  thai  the  postponement  of  I  l"1 

begun  in  the  court  of  Rome  be  <  intinued  during  the  pro  onferei 

as  shall  be  done  in  tho  king's  court,  or  I  if  oeed  be,  an  1  tint  no 


7,.  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


L374,  Membrane  2(id — cont. 

proceeding    by    ecclesiastical    censures  be   meanwhile    taken   against 

the  king's  subject^  especially  persons  of  note  ecclesiastical  or  even 

secular.  By  K.  and  the  whole  C. 
[Fad  era.] 

Charter  of  Edmund  de  Mortimer  earl  of  March  and  Ulster  marshal 
of  England,  giving  with  warranty  to  Ralph  de  Beltisford  clerk,  John 
Duket  and  Thomas  Heldhurst,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  lands,  rents, etc. 
which  the  said  earl  has  as  well  in  lordships  as  in  demesnes  in 
Inchecuingne  and  le  Youghull  with  knights'  fees  and  the  advowson 
of  Youghull.  Witnesses  :  William  Caunton,  William  Forster,  Michael 
Laules.     Dated  6  February  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  March. 

March  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order,  upon  the  'petition  of  Peter 
Westminster.  Duraunt,  by  mainprise  of  John  Norwych  '  goldsmyth,'  John  Bontyng 
'  goldsmyth,'  Hervey  Rokhawe  and  Richard  Robyn  of  London  to 
stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  king  the  day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the 
suit  of  Henry  Edward  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the 
said  Henry  is  impleading  him  before  the  king  for  an  alleged  trespass, 
that  by  the  said  writ  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed 
for  that  he  came  not  before  the  king  to  answer  thereupon,  and  that  he 
is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
John  Norwych  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under 
a  pain  of  20Z.  to  have  him  before  the  king  at  that  day  to  answer  as 
aforesaid. 

April  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Middlesex.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert 

Westminster.  Kymbell,  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Sturgis,  Thomas  Stanes,  John 
Salesbirs  and  John  Dubble  of  Cambridgeshire  to  stay  the  exigents 
against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  Clement  Spice  is 
impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  to  render  201.,  that  by  writ 
de  judicio  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that 
he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  concerning  the  premises, 
and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and 
the  said  Richard  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a 
pain  of  20£.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  the  said 
writ  de  judicio  is  returnable. 


April  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey.  Order  on  sight  of  these  presents  to  cause 
Westminster,  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  fisher 
or  other  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  under  pain  of  forfeiture 
before  Michaelmas  next  to  take  any  lampreys  in  the  river  Thames 
by  nets  or  other  engines  whatsoever  ;  and  order  from  time  to  time 
to  certify  the  king  of  the  names  of  any  found  so  doing  after  the 
proclamation,  that  by  advice  of  the  council  the  king  may  take  order 
for  their  punishment. 

[Feeder  a.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriffs  of  London  and  to  the  sheriff  of  Middlesex. 

[Ibid.] 


48  EDWARD   III.  71 


1374.  Membrane  26d — cont. 

April  14.         Robert  Poresle  of  Wotesdon  to  William  Ponde  of  .Monks  Risburgh. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  hi.s  lands 
and  chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

April  15.         Thomas    de    Ikworth    of    Suffolk    to    William    de    MiriVld    clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Suffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

April  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert 
Westminster,  de  Poresle,  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Cortenhale  and  William  Ponde 
of  Bukinghamshire  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking 
of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  his 
petition  shews  that  John  bishop  of  Lincoln  is  impleading  him  before 
the  said  justices  to  render  account  for  the  time  that  he  was  the  bishop's 
bailiff  and  receiver  in  the  hundred  of  Thame,  that  by  writ  de  juditio 
he  is  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  for  that  he  came  not  to 
answer  before  the  said  justices,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer 
and  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  praying  a  stay  until  the  day  the  said 
writ  is  returnable  ;  and  the  said  John  de  Cortenhale  and  William 
have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  before 
the  said  justices  at  that  day  to  answer  as  aforesaid. 

Writing  of  Giles  de  Seint  John  knight,  being  a  general  release  to 
Richard  de  Piriton  clerk,  his  heirs,  executors  or  assigns,  of  all  actions, 
plaints  or  demands,  real  and  personal,  by  reason  of  contract,  debt, 
trespass,  covenant  or  other  matter  whatsoever.  Dated  London, 
21  June  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  April  this  year. 

Writing  of  Walter  fitz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham,  granting  to  John 
de  Kyngesfold  and  his  heirs  a  yearly  rent  of  100/.  to  be  taken  at 
.Midsummer,  Michaelmas,  Christmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  of 
his  manors  of  Burnham  and  Wodeham  water  co.  Essex,  with  power 
to  distrain  for  arrears  to  whose  hands  soever  the  same  shall  come  ; 
and  the  said  Walter  delivers  Id.  to  the  said  .John  in  name  of 
seisin.  Witnesses  :  JohnCharman,  John  Staunford,  William  Bay  ward. 
Dated  London,  20  April  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  April. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  100/.  to  be  taken  of  the 
manors  of  Burnham  and  Wodehamwater  CO.  Essex  granted  by  Walter 
fitz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham  to  John  de  Kyngesfold  and  his  heirs, 
upon  condition  that  the  said  Walter  or  some  other  in  his  name  shall 
pay  200  marks  to  the  said  John  or  his  attorney  at  Christmas  next 
or  within  the  (piin/.aine  thereof  in  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Poul 
London,  100/.  at  .Michaelmas  following  or  \\  ithin  the  quinzaine  thereof, 
100/.  at  Easter  following,  1«)<)/.  at  .Michaelmas  following,  and  100J. 
at  Easter  following.  Dated  London,  21  April  48  Edward  111. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21    April. 

April  2G.        Robert    Eaulay   knight    to   Richard  de   Raveneser  arohdeaoon  of 

Westminster.  Lincoln  and  John  de   Raveneser  olerk.      ReCOgniflanoe  tor    loo  marks 


7  j  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


i;>71.  Membrane  26d — cont. 

payable  by  instalments  :    fco  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in    Lincolnshire. 
incelled  on  payment. 

Nicholas  Gonewardesby  of  Colworthe  to  Thomas  Laurence  of  Little 
Compton  in  Hennemerssh  and  John  Bygenet  of  Wytteneye.  Recog- 
nisance for  15/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Oxfordshire. 

Membrane  25d. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Chestrefeld  clerk,  Master  Nicholas  de 
Chaddesden  clerk,  Richard  de  Tyssington  clerk  and  Geoffrey  de 
Chaddesden  rector  of  Long  Watton,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William 
de  Dethek  and  his  heirs  of  the  two  mills  of  le  Leghe,  one  piece  of  land 
and  meadow  called  the  Halewelker,  and  a  messuage,  a  cottage  with 
curtilage,  12  acres  of  land  and  four  pieces  of  meadow  in  Tannesleye 
called  the  Giffardland,  which  they  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  William 
de  Wakeburg.     Dated  Dethek,  Friday  in  Easter  week  47  Edward  III. 


April  27. 
Westminster. 


April  12. 
Sheen 
manor. 


Writing  of  Richard  de  Chestrefeld  clerk,  Master  Nicholas  de 
Chaddesden  clerk,  Richard  de  Tissington  clerk  and  Geoffrey  de 
Chaddesden  rector  of  Long  Watton,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William 
de  Dethek  and  his  heirs  of  all  lands  etc.  in  Mathersay  co.  Notyngham 
which  they  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  de  Wakeburg.  Dated 
(as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  by  the 
said  Nicholas  and  Richard  (sic),  25  April  this  year. 

John  atte  Hille  of  Canieryngham  to  the  abbot  of  Barlynges,  John  de 
Wy  thorn  wyk  and  William  de  Kellesey.  Recognisance  for  100s., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Lincolnshire. 

William  de  Ake  of  Whiteby  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Whiteby  to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  abbey  for  life  as  Philip 
Lychet  deceased  had  at  the  late  king's  command.         By  p.s.  [30084.] 


April  28.         John  de  Meryet  knight  to  John  de  Toudeby.      Recognisance  for 
Westminster.  200  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  con- 
dition that  John  de  Meriet  knight  or  some  other  in  his  name  shall  pay 
to  John  Toudeby  knight  or  to  his  attorneys  in  Westminster  Hall 
50  marks  within  one  month  of  Martinmas  next  or  on  the  last  day  of 
that  month,  and  50  marks  within  one  month  of  Easter  following 
or  on  the  last  day  of  that  month,  the  said  John  Toudeby  or  his 
attorneys  or  executors  making  letters  of  acquittance  to  witness 
either  payment,  and  acknowledgment  of  the  same  in  chancery  before 
the  chancellor  or  his  representative.  Dated  Westminster,  29  April 
48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  29  April. 


48   EDWARD   111. 


73 


1374. 


Membrane  2od — cont. 


April  28.  To  the  executors  of  William  de  Chiltenham.  Order  to  send  into 
.  chancery  under  their  seals  all  records,  processes,  presentments,  indict- 
ments and  memoranda  in  their  keeping  which  were  of  the  said  William 
what  time  he  was  one  of  the  justices  for  preserving  the  peace  and  of 
oyer  and  terminer  in  Worcestershire,  namely  such  as  were  determined 
by  themselves  and  such  as  arc  not  yet  determined  by  themselves, 
also  this  writ,  that  after  viewing  the  same  the  king  may  do  further 
what  ought  by  law  to  be  done  therein. 

The  like  to  the  executors  of  William  de  Bello  Campo  late  one  of 
the  justices  in  that  county. 

May  4.  Bernard  Brocas  knight  to  Beatrice  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Breouse 

Westminster,  knight.     Recognisance  for  400/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 


William   Bures   to   Master   William  Byde  clerk. 
20  marks  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Surrey. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Recognisance  for 


Writing  of  Robert  de  Hagham,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Robert  de  Hagham 
knight,  granting  with  warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  de  Thorp  parson  of 
Tyd,  Richard  de  Welby  of  Multon,  Sir  Robert  Warde  of  Holbech 
chaplain,  Robert  White  of  Holbech  the  elder  and  Thomas  his  brother, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  remainder  after  the  death  of  Dame  Eleanor 
wife  of  Thomas  de  Dry  by,  mother  of  the  said  Robert  de  Hagham,  of 
all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Sutton  by  Markeby,  Hagham  and 
Tathewell  which  the  said  Thomas  de  Dryby  and  Dame  Eleanor  now- 
bold  for  her  life  of  the  said  Robert's  heritage  with  reversion  to  him 
and  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Haghe,  Thomas  Clavmond,  Thomas 
de  Haghe,  Roger  de  Welby,  John  Balbo.  Dated  Westminster,  4  May 
48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  May. 

Charter  of  William  Wantyng.  giving  with  warranty  to  John  Fourneus 
and  Alice  sister  of  the  said  William  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies 
all  his  lands  at  le  Naldre  in  the  parishes  of  Stoke  and  Worplesdon 
with  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  moors,  marshes,  fisheries, 
reed  beds,  waters,  paths,  ways  etc.  which  fell  to  him  by  inheritance 
after  the  death  of  William  Wantyng  his  father,  with  reversion  for 
lack  of  such  issue  to  him  the  grantor  and  to  his  heirs.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  Loxlee,  William  Guldeford,  Richard  Stoughton,  Robert 
'  Shisenhale,  William  Le  Frensshe,  Simon  atte  Churche,  Robert  Bromersh. 
Dated  Guldeford,  Monday  the  eve  of  AH  Hallows  47  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  May  this  year. 

.May  8.  William  de  Brundale  of  Nbrffolk  to  .John  de  Boys  of  Lincolnshire 

and  -John  de    Bradstrete  clerk  of  Suffolk.     Recognisance  for   100/., 
to    be    Levied,    in    default    of    payment,    of    his    lands   and    chattels    in 

Norffolk. 

.John  de  Meriet  knight.  Walter  de  Clopton,  John  Mautravers  and 
Ih  my  Molyna  to  Richard  Cheddesley.  Joint  and  several  recogni  i  one 
for  50/.,  to  be  Levied  etc.  in  Somei  i  t. 

Cancelled  on  'payment. 


7) 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE  ROLLS 


1374,  Membrane  25d — cont. 

The  said  John  de  Meriet  knight  to  Walter  de  Clopton,  John  Mautravers 


and  Henry  Molyns. 


Recognisance  for  601. 


to  be  levied  etc.  (as  above). 


Writing  of  Maud  atte  Lye,  cousin  and  heir  of  John  de  Warfeld, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  Pecche  and  Agnes  his 
wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  two  messuages  in  the  parish  of  St. 
Clement  Danes  without  New  Temple  bar  London.  Witnesses  :  Andrew 
Tettesworth,  William  Louell,  John  Lankastresshire,  Robert  Craven, 
John  de  Shelton,  John  Freynche,  Walter  Barbour.  Dated  West- 
minster, Monday  after  Ascension  day  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  May. 

May  16.  Ellen  de  Bertram,  daughter  of  Robert  de  Bertram  knight,  to  Richard 

Westminster,  de  Stanhope.  Recognisance  for  260  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  her  lands  and  chattels  in  Northumberland. 

May  6.  To  Th.  bishop  of  Ely.     Order  to  grant  Thomas  de  Maddyngle  the 

Westminster,  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension  as  shall  befit  the  giver  and  should 
bind  the  receiver  to  him,  making  him  letters  patent  thereupon  under 
seal,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  he  will  do  ;  as  by  reason 
of  his  new  creation  the  bishop  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one  of 
the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until  provision  be  by  the 
bishop  made  him  of  a  benefice,  and  the  king  is  sending  the  said 
Thomas,  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30107.] 

Membrane  24d. 

Charter  of  Guy  de  Bryene,  giving  to  Master  John  de  Carreu  portioner 
of  the  church  of  Bedyngton,  William  Tauk,  Thomas  de  Houton, 
John  Oliver  of  Croydon  the  younger  and  David  de  Carreu,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  10  marks  of  yearly  rent  in  Karsalton  co.  Surrey  with  the 
whole  service  of  Nicholas  de  Carreu  and  his  heirs  whereby  the  said 
Nicholas  holds  of  the  said  Guy  the  manor  of  Karsalton.  Witnesses  : 
Peter  atte  Wode,  William  Neudegate,  Thomas  de  Kynardesle, 
Thomas  de  Berwe,  John  de  Walyngton.  Dated  Karsalton,  7  May 
48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  May. 

May  9.  Henry    Percehay    to   Guy   de    Briene    knight.       Recognisance    for 

Westminster.  1.000  marks,  to   be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Devon. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Indenture  made  between  Sir  Guy  de  Briene  knight  and  Henry 
Percehay,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  con- 
dition that  the  said  Henry  or  some  other  for  him  shall  pay  to  Sir  Guy  or 
his  executors  or  attorney  300  marks  at  Midsummer  next  or  sooner, 
120  marks  at  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  following,  and  120  marks 
at  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  following.  Dated  9  May  48  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  10  May. 


48   EDWAIM)    111. 


1374.  Membrane  24fZ — cant. 

May  B.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard 

Westminster.  Derlaston  and  Adam  Bretoun  of  Staffordshire  William  de  Roudon 
clerk  and  Richard  Rynglond  the  younger  of  Norhamptonshire  to 
free  William  Glaser  of  Norhampton  from  the  king's  prison  there, 
bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  ;  as  on  his  behalf 
it  is  shewn  the  king  that  lately  by  writ  the  king  commanded  the  sheriff 
to  attach  the  said  William  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justii 
in  the  octaves  of  Trinity  next  to  answer  as  well  the  king  as  Eleanor 
Belgrave  of  Norhampton  for  that,  being  lately  their  retained  in  her 
service,  without  reasonable  cause  and  without  her  licence  he  withdrew 
from  that  service  before  the  term  agreed  contrary  to  the  ordinance, 
that  by  virtue  of  the  said  command  the  sheriff  has  taken  him  and 
is  keeping  him  in  the  said  prison,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer 
the  said  Eleanor  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Richard, 
Adam,  William  and  Richard,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices 
at  the  day  named. 

Vacated,  because  given  up  with  seal  unbroken  (in  cera)  and  nothing 
done  thereupon. 

Charter  of  Hugh  de  Waltham  citizen  and  capper  of  London,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Roger  Leget  of  Holbourne  and  Emma  his  wife  for 
their  lives,  with  remainder  to  John  Doget  of  Boterwyk  citizen  of 
London  and  to  his  heirs,  a  messuage  and  ten  shops  with  appurtenances 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  Holbourne  without  Old  Temple  bar  called 
Pateniosterrent.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  de  Exton,  William  atte  Marche, 
William  Knot,  Stephen  Child,  Andrew  Tetlesworth,  William  Louell, 
Richard  Cook.     Dated  Holbourne,  6  May  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  May. 

May  13.  John  de  Folkyngham  parson  of  Blakeaueton  to  Robert  de  Muskham 

Westminster,  clerk  and  John  de  Garton  of  Kent.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecelesiastieal 
goods  in  Devon. 

May  12.  To  John  Godfrey  master  of  the  barge  of  Bristol.     Order  under  pain 

Westminster,  of   forfeiture   to   leave   all   else   and   ceasing   every   excuse    to    be    in 

person  before  the  council  at   Westminster  with  all  speed  he  may  in 

order  to  give  information  touching  those  things  which  shall  then  and 

there   be  laid   before  him   on  the   king's    behalf,  bringing   this  win. 

[Feeder  a.] 

The  like  to  Thomas  Mersey  master  of  a  ship  called  'la  Edmond' 
of  Herwich,  and  sixteen  other  shipmasters,  and  to  Robert  Lathe  of 
Lenne. 

[/bid.] 

Charter  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Blaston,  giving  with 

warrant}  to  Sir  Richard  Le  Scrope  knight,  Sir  Ralph  Peek  warden  of 
Nbwsele  chapel  and  Sir  Thomas  de  Schepesheved  rector  of  Adloxton, 

their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Bias  ton,  with  2  acres  of  land  in 
the  fields  of  llalonghton.  2a.  of  hni  in  Haliok,  and  all  commodities 
and  reversions  to  the  Baid  manor  belonging.     Witn  Ralph  de 

Notyngham  of  Blaston.  John  de  ll"ui>\  "I  Eiolte,  Bugb  Hemyngton  of 


76  CALENDAR   OF   CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1 . ;  7  1 .  Membrane  24d — cont. 

Bfedburne,  Robert  I  Hakwyn  of  Blaston,  Richard  Hellawe  clerk.   Dated 
Blaston,   Friday  the  Invention  of  Holy  Cross  44  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  May  this  year. 

Writing  of  Avice  Pevere  late  the  wife  of  William  de  Clopton,  being 
a  quitclaim  to  John  Mohaut  of  Kyngeston  and  Isabel  his  wife  and 
to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  right  heirs 
of  the  said  Isabel,  of  all  her  right  in  the  manors  of  Berkelowe  and 
Overhal,  with  the  advowson  of  Berkelowe  church  and  all  the  lands,  rents, 
profits,  services,  liberties  etc.  in  Berkelowe,  Overhall  and  the  town  of 
Asshedon  which  at  any  time  were  of  the  said  William.  Dated 
Westminster,  2  May  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  June. 

June  5.  John  de  Pountfreit  citizen  and  saddler  of  London  and  Robert  de 

Westminster.  Pountfreit  citizen  and  grocer  of  London  to  William  de  Mirfeld  clerk. 
Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  200£.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

John  Waryn  to  William  atte  Crosse  parson  of  St.  Clement  Danes 
without  New  Temple  bar  London.  Recognisance  for  10  marks,  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Hertfordshire. 

Membrane  23d. 

May  18.  William  de  Haulay  knight  to  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  said  William  pay  to 
the  said  Michael  or  his  attorney  at  London  10  marks  at  the  quinzaine 
of  Trinity  next. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Blaston,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Sir  Richard  Lescrope  knight,  Sir  Ralph  Peek  warden 
of  Nousleye  chapel  and  Sir  Thomas  Shepesheved  rector  of  Adloxtoh, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents,  services,  meadows,  groves, 
feedings  and  pastures  with  the  reversions  thereto  belonging  in  Blaston, 
Haloughton  and  Halyok  which  were  sometime  of  Thomas  his  father. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Boyvyle  knight,  Henry  Boyvyle,  John  Norwych, 
Henry  Norwych  of  Bryngherst,  William  Deystere  of  Haloughton, 
Robert  Blakewyne,  Thomas  Haukyn.  Dated  Holte,  the  morrow  of 
Ascension  day  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  May. 

June  6.  To  A.  archbishop  of  York.     Order  to  grant  to  Adam  de  Chestrefeld 

Westminster,  the  king's  clerk  such  a  pension  as  shall  befit  the  giver  and  should  bind 
the  receiver  to  him,  making  the  said  Adam  letters  patent  thereupon 
under  his  seal,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  he  will  do  ;  as 
by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the  archbishop  is  bound  in  such  a  pension 
to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination,  until  provision 
be  made  him  by  the  archbishop  of  a  competent  benefice;  and  the 
king  has  nominated  the  said  Adam,  whose  advancement  he  has 
at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30140.] 


48   EDWARD   III.  77 


1374.  Membrane  23c? — cont. 

Writing  of  John  Bataylle,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Robert  Palmere  of  Kedyngton,  John  Kempe  and  William  Colbayn, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Bourhalle  of  Pentelowe 
with  its  appurtenances.  Dated  Wednesday  before  St.  Barnabaa 
48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  June. 

June  9.  Godfrey  de  Foljambe  knight  to  Richard  de  Ravenser  clerk.     Kecog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  12Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Derbj'shire. 
Cancelled  on  'payment. 

Writing  of  Henry  Lambard  of  Schepisheved  and  William  Leche 
burgess  of  Notyngham,  being  a  bond  to  Walter  Blaunkeneye  citizen 
and  merchant  of  London  in  60/.,  payable  at  London  at  Easter  next. 
Dated  London,  Thursday  after  St.  Hilary  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Xewerk  on  Saturday  after 
Corpus  Christi  this  year  before  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  by  virtue  of  the 
king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  file  for  this  year. 

Writing  of  Henry  Botiler  of  Staynton,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  Payn  citizen  and  armourer  of  London  and  Edmund 
de  Clay  of  Fynynglay,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Staynton 
co.  York  by  Tykhull  and  any  other  lands,  rents  and  services  which 
they  have  by  his  gift  and  feoffment,  hereby  barring  every  action 
and  claim  of  the  said  Henrv  and  his  heirs.  Dated  London.  15  June 
48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
15  June. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Roger  de  Missenden  and  William  his  brother, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Bernes  citizen  of  London, 
William  Mulsho  clerk,  Edward  de  Cherdestok  clerk.  John  de  Freton 
clerk  and  Robert  Brom  of  Warrcwyk.  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manor  of  Coleworth,  two  mills,  one  toft,  three  carucates  of  land  and 
all  other  lands  etc.  in  the  town  of  Coleworth  which  the  said  John 
Bernes  and  the  others  have  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Nicholas  de 
Gunewardeby  and  Alice  his  wife.  Walter  de  Burnham  and  Felicia  his 
Wife.      Dated    Westminster.    l(i   June    !S    Edward    HI. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  June'. 

June  17.  John  Payn  of  Loudon  '  armurer  '  to  John  de  Neville  of  Raby. 
Recognisance  for  200Z.  payable  by  instalments ;  to  he  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  Lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Thomas  de  Salesbury  knight  to  Nicholas  de  Spaigne  clerk  and 
.Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk.  Recognisance  lor  (in/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in   Essex. 

< '<nir<  <h  ,l  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  tin  said  Nicholas. 

June  18.         Elmyng  Lege!  to  John  de  Neville  of  Raby  knight.     Re<  tnce 

\\.  tmin  ter.  for  mi/,  payable  bj   instalments;    to  he  levied  etc.  m  Essex. 


78 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

June  14.         Robert  dc  Kymbell  and  Richard  Seryn  of  London  to  Clement  Spice. 
Westminster.  Joint    and  several  recognisance  for  20  marks,   to   be  levied  etc.   in 
Cambridgeshire. 

('(Dialled  on  payment. 

June  19.         John  Beyvyn,  John  Barre  and  John  Bokerell  of  Somerset  to  Jordan 
Westminster,  de    Barton   citizen  of  London.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for 
40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Charter  of  John  Aldericheseye  '  peutrer '  and  Walter  Peryndon 
'  armurer  '  citizens  of  London,  giving  with  warranty  to  William  de 
Hulle  and  Ellen  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
William  a  messuage  in  the  town  of  Westminster  situate  between  a 
tenement  of  Robert  Kentebury  late  John  Cardel  on  the  south  and  a 
tenement  of  Richard  Rook  on  the  north  and  extending  from  the 
highway  towards  the  east  to  a  tenement  of  Sir  John  Dymmok  towards 
the  west,  which  messuage  the  said  John  and  Walter  lately  had  by 
gift  and  feoffment  of  Robert  de  Kent,  brother  and  heir  of  John  de 
Kent  of  Essex.  Witnesses  :  Robert  Gy;  Roger  Sudbury,  Richard 
Rook,  Peter  Bocher,  Robert  Hakebourne,  Robert  Kentbury,  William 
Brynche.  Dated  the  town  of  Westminster,  the  feast  of  St.  Philip 
and  St.  James  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  Aldrycheseye 
and  Walter,  16  June. 

Membrane  22d. 

Ma}r  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John 

Westminster.  Sharp,  by  mainprise  of  Roger  de  Welford  clerk,  John  Daventre,  Thomas 
Watte  and  Richard  Barker  of  Daventre  of  Norhamptonshire  to  stay  the 
taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ; 
as  his  petition  shews  that  John  West  of  Baddeby  is  impleading  him 
before  the  said  justices  to  render  up  chattels  to  the  value  of  20Z.  which 
he  is  unlawfully  withholding,  and  that  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  has 
ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  him  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  said 
justices  in  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  next  to  answer  the  plaintiff  there- 
upon, for  that  the  sheriff  returned  that  he  was  not  found  in  his 
bailiwick  and  had  nought  whereby  he  might  be  distrained,  shewing 
that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and 
the  said  Roger  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under 
a  pain  of  20Z.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

May  23.  Richard  Pencombe  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Derleye, 

Westminster,  to  have  such  maintenance  for  life  in  that  abbey  as  John  de  Barton 

deceased  had  at  the  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [30128.] 

May  8.  Hugh  Ferrour  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of    Furneux,  to 

Westminster,  have  such  maintenance  for  life  in  that  abbey  as  Ellis  de  Grendon 

deceased  had  by  command  of  King  Edward  I.  By  p.s.  [30113.] 

Writing  of  Avice  Pevere  late  the  wife  of  William  de  Clopton,  being 
a  general  release  to  John  Mohaut  of  Kyngeston  and  Isabel  his  wife, 
John  de  Clopton  one  of  the  said  William's  executors  and  to  the  other 


48   EDWARD  III.  79 


1374.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

executors  of  all  actions,  plaints  and  demands  real  and  personal  by 
reason  of  the  said  William's  goods  and  chattels  or  otherwise.  Dated 
Westminster,  3  June  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  June. 

Writing  of  John  de  Yevele,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Robert  Bays  vicar 
of  Yevele  and  his  sucesssors  of  a  tenement  in  Xevele  situate  in 
Quydamstret,  whereof  the  said  Robert  is  tenant  in  right  of  his  vicarage. 
Dated  17  June  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  19  June. 

June  20.         William    de    Cosyngton    knight    to    Randolph    Pygot    knight   and 
Westminster.  Cuthbert  Capoun.     Recognisance  for  80Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Randolph  Pygot  knight  and  Cuthbert  Capoun  to  William  de 
Cosyngton  knight.     Recognisance  for  80/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  as  above. 

June  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall.  Order  to  tell  Ralph  Sooz  to  be 
Westminster,  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  to 
prosecute  if  he  will  his  claim  against  John  Raulyn,  Richard  Raulyn, 
John  Tounne  and  Cicely  his  wife,  replevying  the  said  defendants 
meanwhile  by  mainprise  of  William  Boys,  Ralph  Clerk  of  Trelegen, 
John  Bonion  of  Cornwall  and  John  Grymeston  of  the  city  of  London  ; 
as  the  king  has  many  times  ordered  the  sheriff  lawfully  to  replevy 
them,  being  by  the  said  Ralph  taken  and  kept  it  is  said,  unless  taken 
by  special  order  of  the  king  or  the  chief  justice,  for  manslaughter,  the 
king's  forest  or  some  other  cause  wherefore  by  the  custom  of  England 
they  are  not  replevisable,  or  to  shew  cause  wherefore  he  would  not  or 
might  not  execute  the  king's  command  at  other  times  to  him  addressed, 
and  the  sheriff  signified  that  he  repaired  to  the  said  Ralph  accordingly, 
who  claimed  the  said  defendants  as  his  neifs  and  detained  them  with 
him.  wherefore  the  sheriff  might  not  replevy  them,  and  petition  is 
made  to  the  king  on  their  behalf  for  remedy  thereupon  ;  and  the  said 
William  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain 
of  40/.  to  have  the  defendants  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day 
named. 

Indenture  tripartite  made  between  Nicholas  son  of  Sir  -lames  de 
Audelce  of  Heyleye  of  the  one  part,  Fulk  Corbel  son  of  Sir  Robert 

Corbel    of   Morton   of   the   second    part    and    David    Hannymere  of   the 
third  part,  being  the  defeasance  of  two  bonds  in    III/,  severally  made 

to  the  said  Nicholas  by  the  said  Fulk  and  David,  upon  condition 
that  they  or  some  other  for  them  shall  at  Monyton  upon  Wye  before 
.Michaelmas  next  cause  the  said  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  to 
have  a  writing  indented  containing  the  composition  made  between 
the  ancestors  of  the  earl  of  Pembroke  and  Sir  William  Martyn  touching 
the  castle  and  lordship  of  Neweporl  in  Kemmeys,  all  other  oharl 
of  liberties  and  muniments  (if  any)  in  the  keeping  of  Sir  James  de 
Audeleye  which  concern  the  same,  and  the  charter  whereby  John 
Orchard,  Roger  BCagot  and  Philip  de  Warwik  chaplains  were  by  the 
s;ud  Sir  James  enfeoffed  of  the  premises,  with  the  charter  of  reenfeoff 
men!  thereof  made  to  Sir  James  and  Isabel  his  wife,  if  anj  of  them  may 
be  found  m  the  keeping  of  the  said  Sir  .lam.-,  and  in  case  none  be 


so  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


137-1.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

there   found,   thai    the  said  John  Orchard  or  his  heirs  shall  before 
Michaelmas  next  release  the  premises  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth 
and   to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Nicholas  for  ever.      Dated  Westminster, 
i:>  June  18  Edward  III.     French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  20  June. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury 
and  lord  of  the  Isle  of  Man  of  the  one  part  and  Thomas  Schorte  of 
Cote  chaplain  and  William  Schorte  his  brother  of  the  other  part, 
being  a  manumission  of  the  said  Thomas  and  William  Schorte  with 
all  their  goods  and  chattels,  so  that  they  shall  for  the  said  earl  be  of 
free  condition  for  ever.     Dated  London,  12  June  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  earl,  30  June. 

Membrane  21d. 

Memorandum  that  on  7  June  48  Edward  III  John  Aleyn  the  father, 
Sewal  Deken,  William  Trotte  and  John  Godard  of  Essex  came  into 
the  chancer}^  at  Westminster,  and  for  themselves  and  John  Aleyn  the 
son,  being  within  age,  gave  an  undertaking  for  their  good  behaviour 
toward  the  king  and  his  ministers  under  a  pain  of  50  marks,  to  be 
levied  of  their  lands  and  chattels  to  the  king's  use  in  case  they  or  any 
of  them  should  thereafter  offend  against  the  king  or  bis  ministers, 
and  should  be  thereof  convicted. 

June  9.  William  Manchestre  is   sent   to   the    abbot  and  convent  of  Meux 

Westminster,  co.    York,  to  have  such    maintenance  for  life  as  Robert  de  Etton 

deceased  had  there  at  the  late  king's  command.        By  p.s.  [30148.] 

June  14.         John  Emmory  of  Hertjmg  and  John  Romyn  of  Idesworth  to  William 
Westminster.  Tirwhit  clerk  and  Henry  Stachesden.     Recognisance  for  100  marks, 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 
Sussex. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Leycestre,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Richard 
Lescrope  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Thornton 
Stuard.     Dated  London,  14  June  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknoAvledgment,  15  June. 

June  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  summon  the  archbishops,  bishops, 
Westminster,  abbots,  priors,  dukes,  earls,  barons,  knights  and  all  freeholders  of 
the  county,  four  lawful  men  and  the  reeve  of  every  town,  twelve 
lawful  burgesses  of  every  borough,  and  all  who  ought  and  are  used  to 
come  before  the  justices  in  eyre,  to  be  at  Canterbury  on  the  morrow 
of  St.  Lawrence  next  before  John  de  Cavendissh,  William  de  Wychyng- 
ham,  Roger  de  Kirketon,  Thomas  de  Newenham  and  Robert  Bealknap 
and  other  lieges  whom  the  king  shall  send  ;  to  cause  all  pleas  of  the 
crown  not  pleaded  or  originating  since  the  last  eyre  to  come  before 
them,  all  pleas  and  attachments  thereto  pertaining,  all  assizes  and 
pleas  put  to  the  first  assize  with  the  writs  thereof,  so  that  they  remain 
not  for  default  of  the  sheriff  or  of  his  summons  ;  to  cause  proclamation 
to  be  made  that  all  assizes  and  pleas  attamed  and  not  ended,  and  all 
summoned  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  or  York,  in  the  last  eyre 
for  all  pleas,  or  before  the  justices  for  taking  assizes  of  novel  disseisin  or 


18    EDWARD    III. 


81 


1374.  Membrane  2\d — conl. 

for  gaol  delivery,  to  be  at  Canterbury  in  the  state  wherein  they  remained 

by  order  of  the  king,  the  justices  in  eyre  or  of  the  Bench  ;   to  summon 
those  who  have  been  sheriffs  and  coroners  since  the  last  eyre  to  he  there 
with  the  writs  of  assizes  and  pleas  received  in  their  time  to  answer  con- 
cerning their  time  as  they  ought  to  do;  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 
that  all  claiming  any  liberties  by  chatters  of  the  king's  pre<l' 
or  otherwise  shall  be  there  to  shew  what  liberties  they  claim  ami  by 
what  warrant,  and  the  sheriff  in  person  with  his  bailiffs  and  minist 
to  certify  touching  these  and  other  matters  affecting  the  buaini 
also  that  all  complainants  as  well  concerning  the  king's  bailiffs  and 
ministers  as  the  bailiffs  and  ministers  of  others  and  concerning  other 
persons  whatsoever  shall  come  there  and  shew  their  complaints,  in 
order  to  receive  amends  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm, 
the  king's  ordinance,  the  statutes  and  the  articles  delivered  to  his  said 
lieges,  and  as  they  shall  notify  the  sheriff  on  the  king's  behalf  ;    and 
to  bring  the  summoners,  and  this  writ.  By  K. 

Not  sent  to  the  exchequer  among  the  estreats,  because  they  made  fine 
to  have  remission  of  the  session  of  the  eyre,  which  fine  is  sent  to  the 
exchequer  among  the  estreats  in  the  Fine  Boll. 

Aug.  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 

Westminster,  that  no  man  need  repair  to  Canterbury  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Lawrence 
next  by  reason  of  the  proclamation  of  an  eyre  by  the  sheriff  made 
at  the  king's  command,  but  the  king  will  hold  all  and  singular  of  them 
excused,  although  lately  by  writ  he  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause  the 
archbishops  etc.  (as  above)  to  be  summoned  there  on  that  day  before 
John  de  Cavendissh,  William  de  Wychyngham,  Roger  de  Kirketon, 
Thomas  de  Newenham  and  Robert  Bealknap  and  others  by  the  king 
appointed  justices  in  eyre  for  common  pleas  and  pleas  of  the  crown 
in  Kent,  and  to  execute  certain  other  things  in  that  writ  contained  ; 
as  by  fine  with  him  made  by  the  true  men  and  commons  of  Kent  the 
king  has  this  time  pardoned  them  the  session  of  the  said  justices  in 
Kent  during  the  present  vacancy  of  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury 
by  the  death  of  William  the  last  archbishop. 


To  John  de  Cavendissh,  William  de  Wychyngham ,  Roger  de  Kirketon, 
Thomas  de  Xewenham  and  Robert  Bealknap.  Order  to  stay  altoget  her 
the  execution  of  the  king's  late  commission  by  Letters  patent  appointing 
them  justices  in  eyre  for  common  pleas  and  pleas  of  the  crown  in 
Kent  and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  the  said  letters  contained  ;  as 
by  fine  etc.  (as  the  last). 

July  24.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Elizabeth 

Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  William    Daun vers,   by  mainprise  of  .John   Lang'  of 

London,  William  Wychehurst,  John  Manytre  and  John  Sutton  of  the 

county  of  Nut  ham  pton,  to  stay  the  exigents  against  her  and  the  taking 

of  her  body,  bringing  this  wril  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day 
the  writ  of  exigents  La  returnable;  as  her  petition  shews  that  Adam 
Fraunceys  citizen  and  mercer  of  London  is  impleading  her  before  the 

d  justices  to  render  him  20/.,  that  by  w  lit  ,/r  judtClO  she  is  put  in 
exi  ID  the  husting  of  London  tO  be  waived  for  that  she  came  not 

before  the  said  justices  to  answer  thereupon,  and  thai  she  is  ready  so 

to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  (lungs;    and  the  -aid  John  and 

.1 


gg  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1374.  Membrane  2ld—  cunt. 

the  others  have  mainperned  in  chanceiy  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have 
her  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  201.  made  in  the 
chancery  at  London  22  June  this  year  by  Thomas  Bubbe  burgess  of 
Lenne  for  Robert  atte  Lathe  burgess  of  Lenne,  that  he  shall  be  ready 
to  answer  before  the  council  touching  the  things  that  shall  by  the 
council  be  laid  before  him  by  reason  of  the  taking  of  a  tarit  of  Malogres 
lately  taken  off  the  coast  of  Brittany,  and  to  do  what  shall  by  the 
council  be  adjudged  ;  and  hereupon  the  said  Robert  has  licence  to 
withdraw  from  the  city  of  London.  * 

Writing  of  Isabel  daughter  of  Roger  de  Mussenden,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  John  Bernes  citizen  of  London,  William  Mulsho 
clerk,  Edward  de  Cherdestok  clerk,  John  de  Freton  clerk  and  Robert 
Brom  of  Warrewyk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Coleworth, 
one  toft,  three  carucates  of  land,  two  mills  in  the  town  of  Coleworth, 
and  all  other  her  lands  etc.  in  that  town.    Dated  16  June  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  June. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  body  for  body  made  in  the  chancery 
at  London  1  July  this  year  by  Guy  de  Briene  knight  and  Philip  de 
Courtenay  knight  for  William  Nottour  master  of  a  ship  called 
'  la  Trinite  '  of  Plymuth,  that  he  shall  be  ready  to  answer  before  the 
council  touching  the  things  that  shall  by  the  council  be  laid  before 
him  by  reason  of  the  taking  of  a  tarit  of  Malogres  lately  taken  off 
the  coast  of  Brittany,  and  to  do  what  shall  by  the  council  be  adjudged  ; 
and  hereupon  the  said  William  has  licence  to  withdraw  from  the  city 
of  London. 

Membrane  20d. 

June  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Ermyn  clerk 
Westminster,  and  John  Ive  of  Lincolnshire  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  William 
Eirmyn  of  North  Wyllughby,  although  lately  at  the  plaint  of  Robert 
de  Wyllughby  clerk,  averring  that  the  said  William  grievously 
threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause 
the  said  William  to  come  before  him,  and  compel  him  to  find 
mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them 
for  which  the  sheriff  would  answer,  would  mainpern  him  that  he 
should  not  do  or  procure  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Robert,  and 
if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol  there  to  be  kept 
in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingfy  so  do  ;  as  the  said  John  and 
John,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain 
of  201.  that  no  hurt  or  harm  shall  happen  to  the  said  Robert  by  the 
said  William  or  by  his  procurement. 

Charter  of  John  Wroth  the  younger,  William  Newerk  chaplain  and 
Robert  Peper,  granting  to  John  son  of  Andrew  Aubrey  citizen  of 
London,  Maud  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  John  son  of 
Andrew,  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  the  said  John  son  of  Andrew 
in  the  towns  of  Westhamme,  Esthamme,  Stratford  and  Berkyng 
co.  Essex  which  Hugh  de  Badewe  and  John  de  Sutton  knights  of 
Essex,   Simon  Abbot  chaplain,   Richard   Alford,   Nicholas   Laurence 


18    EDWARD   III.  83 


1374.  Membrane  20d — cont. 

and  John  de  Someresham  now  deceased  had  jointly  with  them  the  said 
John  Wroth,  William  and  Robert  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said 
John  son  of  Andrew,  and  after  granted  to  the  said  .John  son  of  Andrew 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife  (now  deceased)  for  their  lives  with  reversion 
to  the  said  feoffees  and  to  their  heirs,  and  after  by  writing  dated 
2  .May  47  Edward  III,  after  the  death  of  John  de  Someresham  and 
the  said  Elizabeth,  the  said  Hugh,  John  de  Sutton,  Simon.  Richard 
and  Nicholas  made  a  quitclaim  of  the  premises  to  the  said  John  Wroth, 
William  and  Robert,  and  thereupon  by  writing  dated  IS  June  in  that 
year  the  said  John  son  of  Andrew  made  likewise  a  release  and  surrender 
to  them  of  all  his  estate  therein.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  Clerk,  Richard 
Bowyere,  John  Fyndegode,  John  Sewale,  Adam  Boclere.  Dated 
Westhamme,  Monday  after  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  48  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  John  Wroth  the  younger,  William  Newerk  chaplain  and 
Robert  Peper,  granting  to  John  son  of  Andrew  Aubrey  citizen  of 
London,  Maud  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  John  son 
of  Andrew,  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  and 
all  that  goes  with  them  in  the  towns  and  hamlets  of  Shenlee,  Rugge, 
Parksokne,  Ih'rames  and  Watford  cos.  Hertford  and  Middlesex  that 
were  of  the  said  John  son  of  Andrew,  which  Hugh  de  Badewe  and 
John  de  Sutton  knights  of  Essex,  Simon  Abbot  chaplain,  Richard 
Alford,  Nicholas  Laurence  and  John  de  Someresham  now  deceased 
had  jointly  with  them  the  said  John  Wroth,  William  and  Robert  by 
gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  John  son  of  Andrew,  and  by  writing 
dated  2  May  47  Edward  III,  after  the  death  of  John  de  Someresham, 
the  said  Hugh,  John  de  Sutton,  Simon,  Richard  and  Nicholas  made 
a  release  of  the  premises  to  the  said  John  Wroth,  William  and  Robert. 
Witnesses  :  John  Magot,  John  Somery,  William  Warner,  Nicholas 
Laurence,  Walter  Clerk.  Dated  Shenlee,  the  last  day  of  February 
48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum    of     acknowledgment    of      the     foregoing     charters 
in  the  chancery  at  Westminster,  22  June. 

Writing  of  Robert  Maunsel  citizen  and  mercer  of  London,  being 
a  release  to  John  Gurnay  knight  of  Somerset,  John  Frcshford  of 
Somerset  and  John  de  Badham  of  Gloucestershire  of  all  action  and 
suit  for  400/.,  and  of  the  execution  of  a  joint  and  several  recognisance 
for  that  sum  made  12  March  in  the  38th  year  of  the  reign  by  tin-  said 
John  de  Gurnay,  John  de  Frcshford  and  John  de  Badham  before 
John  Pyel  then  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Westminster  deputed  to  take 
recognisances  of  debt  therein  to  him  the  said  Robert  and  John  Dovy 
citizens  and  mercers  of  London,  which  ought  to  have  been  paid  at 
Midsummer  then  next,  as  after  the  said  John  de  Gurnay  for  himself 
and  his  fellows  made'  fidl  payment  to  the  said  John  Dovy  ;  and  icb 
of  all  personal  actions,  suits,  demands  and  executions  to  this  date. 
Witnesses:  Walter  Perlee,  Fulk  Corbet,  .John  Prestecote,  John  Hullo, 
John  Kentcombe,  Thomas  Tille.     Dated  21  June  48  Edward  ID. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  '2'.)  June. 

Writing  "i  John  Bern  of  Compton  oo.  Surrey,  being  a  quitclaim  w  Lth 
warrant}  bo  John  Bernes  citizen  of  London.  William  Mulsho  olerk, 
!.<!« 1  Cherdestok  clerk,  John  de  Freton  rU-tk  and  Robert    Brom  of 


84  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1374.  Membrane   20d — conl. 

Warrcwyk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  fourth  part  of  the  manor  of 
Shirbourne  co.  Oxford  and  all  other  lands,  meadows,  woods,  feedings, 
pastures,  rents  and  services  in  the  said  town.  Dated  Westminster, 
27  June  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  June. 

Writing  of  Katherine  Breouse  daughter  of  Thomas  de  Norwicz, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Bacoun  of  Brom,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  K/ymberle  which  was  of  Sir  Roger  de 
Norwicz  knight  her  uncle,  and  whereof  the  said  John  is  seised  by  her 
gift  and  feoifment.     Dated  the  feast  of  Trinity  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  June. 

Charter  of  John  de  Sonnynghull,  giving  with  warranty  to  William 
de  Brantyngham,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  201.,  to  be 
taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  said  John's 
manor  of  Sonnynghull  co.  Berkes  into  whose  hands  soever  it  shall 
hereafter  come.  Witnesses  :  John  Butterwyk,  Robert  Gye,  Roger 
Sudbery,  William  Brenge,  Richard  de  Hayton,  Robert  de  Hertle, 
Nicholas  Bernard.  Dated  Westminster,  Monday  after  the  Translation 
of  St.  Thomas  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  July. 

July  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.    Order  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Sadyngton, 

Westminster.  Thomas  Duffeld  clerk,  Robert  de  Garton  clerk  and  Nicholas  de  Grenham 
clerk  to  stay  altogether  the  taking  of  the  body  of  Simon  de  Messy ngham, 
and  if  taken  and  imprisoned  to  set  him  free,  although  lately  at  the 
plaint  of  Gilbert  de  Kyme  of  Lincoln  '  lyster,'  averring  that  the  said 
Simon  threatened  him  grievously  in  life  and  limbs,  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriff  to  cause  the  said  Simon  to  come  before  him,  and  compel 
him  to  find  mainpernors  that  he  would  do  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm 
to  the  said  Gilbert,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  nearest 
gaol  there  to  abide  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  as  the  said  John 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
for  the  said  Simon  under  a  pain  of  20  marks  that  no  hurt  or  harm 
shall  happen  to  the  said  Gilbert  by  him  or  by  his  procurement. 

July  6.  To  Nicholas  Steueley  (sic)  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  pre- 

Westminster.  serve  the  peace  in  Huntingdonshire.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Walter  vicar 
of  Guniestre  of  Huntingdonshire  and  William  Abindon  of  London 
'  groser  '  to  sta}'  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  said 
justices  to  cause  John  de  Weston  of  Guniestre  to  come  before  them, 
and  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the 
justices  laid  upon  them,  would  mainpern  him  that  he  would  by  himself 
or  his  procurement  do  no  hurt  or  harm  to  William  Longe  of  Guniestre, 
and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol  there  to  be 
kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  as  that  order 
was  made  at  the  suit  of  the  said  William  Longe,  averring  that  the 
said  John  grievously  threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs  ;  but  the  said 
vicar  and  William  Abindon,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  for  the  said  John  under  a  pain  of  20Z.  to  be  levied  to  the 
king's  use  in  case  he  shall  by  himself  or  by  his  procurement  cause  hurt 
or  harm  to  the  said  William  Longe. 


48   EDWARD    III.  s5 


1374.  Membrane  20(1 — cant. 

William  de  Elyr 
to  be  levied,  in  < 
Norhamptonshire. 


July  12.  William  de  Elynton  to  Hugh  de  Whitaere.     Recognisance  for  21/., 

Westminster,  to   be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 


Membrane  I9d. 

Charter  of  John  Hu.see;  son  and  heir  of  John  Husee  lately  deeeased, 
giving  with  warranty  to  Hugh  le  Cran  citizen  of  Winchester,  John 
Holewale.  John  Kyng  and  Walter  Brouk  chaplains,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  two  thirds  of  his  manor  of  Berton  Sacy  co.  Suthampton,  with 
the  advowson  of  the  church,  a  water  mill  and  the  suit  thereto  of  free 
tenants  and  neifs  within  the  said  manor,  and  whatsoever  he  had  by 
inheritance  or  might  otherwise  have  there,  also  the  third  part  of  the 
said  manor  now  held  by  Thomas  de  la  Ryvere  and  Isabel  his  wife  in 
name  of  her  dower  with  reversion  after  her  death  to  him  the  said 
John  son  of  John  and  to  his  heirs,  to  remain  to  the  said  Hugh  and 
the  others,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  and  all  appurtenances  of  the  said  two 
thirds  as  in  messuages,  demesnes,  homages,  customs,  rents,  services 
of  free  and  villein  tenants,  villenages,  villeins  and  all  that  goes  with 
them  and  their  chattels,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  fairs, 
markets  and  all  things  thereto  pertaining,  the  hundred  and  whatsoever 
pertains  and  ought  to  pertain  thereto,  the  woods,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  rivers,  fisheries,  fishponds,  ponds,  mills,  ways,  paths,  moors, 
heaths  etc.  and  the  liberties  and  easements  as  well  within  the  town 
of  Berton  Sacy  as  without.  Witnesses  :  Hugh  Camoys.  Philip  de 
Popham  knights.  Walter  Haywode,  Peter  de  Bruges,  William  Hoghton, 
John  Fauconer.  Edmund  Spircok.  Dated  Winchester,  Monday  after 
St.  Philip  and  St.  James  48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  Husee,  son  and  heir  of  John  Husee  lately  deceased, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Hugh  le  Cran  citizen  of  Winchester, 
John  Holewale,  John  Kyng  and  Walter  Brouk  chaplains,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  whole  manor  of  Berton  Sacy  co.  Suthampton  with  the 
advowson  of  the  church,  the  water  null  and  the  suit  thereto  of  free 
tenants  and  neifs  within  the  manor,  and  whatsoever  he  has  by 
inheritance  or  may  otherwise  have  there  as  in  messuages  etc.  (as 
above).  Witnesses" (as  the  last).  Dated  Winchester,  Friday  the  eve  of 
Midsummer  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing-  30  June. 

July  4.  Lawrence  son  of  Robert  Haweberk  to  Guy  de  Rouclif,  Thomas  de 

Westminster    Katerton,  Hugh  de  Westwyk  and  Bugh  de  Midilton.     Recognisance, 

for  100J.  payable  by  instalments  ;   t«»  be  levied,  in  default  <>i'  payment 
of  Ins  lands  and  chattels  in  Leycestershire. 

Charter  of  John  de  Burgherssh  knight,  giving  »<•  the  king  and  Ins 
heirs  all  his  park  of  Worldham  co.  Suthampton  i>.\  the  king's  forest  ol 

Wolinere  OS  i'nllv  as  in  tunes  past   the  same  was  enclosed   with  hedges 

and  ditches,     witm             Edward  de  Saint..  Johanne  knight,  Ralph 
-le  Norton  knight;  Hugh  de  Camoys  knight,  Bernard  I'.  knight, 

William  Purchas,  Stephen  Welwyk,  John  Dene,  limn  Holte.     Dated 
Worldham, Tuesday  the  feasl  ol  Si  Sin and  St.  Judi    US  I  dward  111. 


S6 


CALENDAR    OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


[374,  Membrane  I9d — cont. 

Writing  of  John  de  Burgherssh  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
appointing  Thomas  Chaumberlayn  to  deliver  to  the  king  seisin  of 
Worldham  park  co.  Suthampton  by  Wolmere  forest,  according  to  the 
said  dohn'-:-  charter.     Dated  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  8  July  this  year. 

July  8.  Bartholomew   Blaket  of   Oxfordshire   to  John  Bryan  citizen  and 

Westminster,  fishmonger  of  London.     Recognisance  for  401.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Robert  Cauntelow  of  Hodynton  co.  Wiltesir, 
granting  to  Robert  his  brother  son  of  the  said  Robert  for  life  one 
chamber  within  his  manor  of  Hedynton  with  a  chimney  and  latrine, 
and  free  ingress  and  egress  thereto,  namely  that  called  '  Kuteshous  'on 
the  south  side  of  the  hall  ;  also  three  loads  of  wood  for  fuel  to  be  taken 
yearly  of  the  said  John's  woods  within  the  manor,  and  the  said  John 
and  his  heirs  shall  be  bound  between  Easter  and  Michaelmas  at  their 
own  cost  to  carry  the  same  to  the  said  chamber  or  to  whatever 
other  place  the  said  Robert  shall  appoint  where  he  shall  have  his 
abode  within  one  league  in  circuit  of  the  capital  messuage  of  the 
said  manor  ;  also  a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  payable  of  the  said 
manor  at  Michaelmas,  Christmas,  Easter  and  Midsummer  by  even 
portions,  and  three  ells  of  cloth  yearly  at  the  feast  of  St.  Andrew 
for  one  tunic  and  hood  of  the  said  John's  own  suit,  with  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears  in  the  said  manor,  and  covenant  that  he  the  said 
John  shall  be  bound  to  maintain  and  repair  the  said  chamber  during 
the  said  Robert's  life.  Dated  Hedynton,  Monday  after  Midsummer, 
48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  July. 

July  3  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Welhowe.     Order  to  grant  John  de 

Westminster.  Waltham  the  king's  clerk  dAvelling  in  the  chancery  such  a  pension  of 
that  house  as  shall  befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the  receiver  to 
them,  making  him  thereupon  letters  patent  under  the  chapter  seal, 
and  writing  again  to  the  king  without  delay  what  they  will  do  ;  as 
the  said  abbot  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  is  bound  in  such  a  pension 
to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until  provision  be 
by  the  abbot  made  him  of  a  benefice,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the 
said  John  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30167.] 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  knight,  being  a  surrender  to 
Sir  Richard  Lescrope  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Epurston  co. 
Notyngham,  which  the  said  Robert  holds  for  life  by  lease  of  the  said 
Richard,  rendering  yearly  for  the  first  24  years  20Z.,  and  afterwards 
100Z.  at  Martinmas  and  Whitsuntide  by  even  portions,  with  reversion 
to  the  said  Richard  and  his  heirs.  Dated  London,  Saturday  after  the 
Translation  of  St.  Thomas  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  July. 


Membrane  I8d. 

June  14.         To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Whiteby.     Order  to  grant  Alexander 
Westminster.  Doly  the  king's  clerk  such  a  pension  of  that  house  as  shall  befit  the 


48    EDWARD    III.  s? 


1371.  Membrane   \sd-cont. 

givers  and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  them,  making  him  thereupon 
letters  patent  under  the  chapter  seal,  and  writing  again  to  the  king 
without  delay  what  they  will  do  ;  as  the  said  abbot  l>y  reason  of  his 
new  creation  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at 
the  king's  nomination  until  provision  be  by  the  abbot  made  him 
of  a  benefice,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Alexander,  whose 
advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30155.] 

Writing  of  William  Schorte  of  Cote,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  William 
de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury  and  lord  of  the  Isle  of  .Man.  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  the  said 
earl  has  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  William  Schorte  in 
Langeport  co.  Somerset.  Witnesses:  William  Bonville  knight,  Walter 
Guphay,  Walter  Wytecombe,  John  Tomere,  Richard  Horn.  Dated 
Langeport,  20  June  48  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  William  Schorte  of  Cote,  giving  to  Sir  William  de 
Monteacuto  earl  of  Salisbury  and  lord  of  the  Isle  of  Man,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Langeport  co.  Somerset. 
Witnesses  (as  the  last).     Dated  Langeport,  18  June  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  30  June. 

July  2.  Simon  Chedmenden  of  Smerdenne  to  John  Peuesy  clerk.    Recognis- 

Westminster.  ance  for  87/.  6s.  8c?.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Gerlethorp  clerk,  being  a  general  release  to 
Sir  John  de  Bouland  clerk,  his  men  and  servants,  of  all  actions  to  this 
date.     Dated  Westminster,  4  July  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

Writing  of  John  de  Bouland  clerk,  being  a  general  release  to 
Sir  Thomas  de  Gerlethorp  clerk,  his  men  and  servants,  of  all  actions 
to  this  date.     Dated  Westminster,  4  July  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

Charter  of  Andrew  de  Leeke,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  de  Boys 
of  Conysby,  Roger  do  Boys  knight  his  brother,  William  de  Eolme  of 
Holme  in  Boldernesse,  Alan  de Raithby  of  Raithby,  John  Belle  of  Leeke 
and  Edmund  de  Riggesby  of  Leeke,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  capital 
messuage   and    all    lands,    reversions,    meadows,    feedings,    pastures, 

rents  and  Bervices  of  free  and  bond  tenants  and  all  that  lmics  with  them 
which  he  has  at  this  date  in  the  towns  of  Leeke  and  Levcrton.  his 
w  indmill  in  Leeke  and  t  he  ad\  owson  of  Leverton  church.  Wit  n 
John  de  Etecheford,  Ralph  de  Reccheford  knights,  Lawrence  de  Leeke, 
Richard  Clement  of  Leeke,  Roger  ^\i-  Grymescroft,  John  Ellerede, 
Adam  Belle  of  Leeke.  Dated  Leeke,  Friday  after  Corpus  Christi 
18  Edward  111. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment.  7  July. 

Charter  of  John  do  Burgherssh  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  the 
king,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  oi  Estworldeham  and  all  his 
lands,  rent-.,  reversion*  f<  i     advowsons,  sei  \  ioea  eto.  in  Estworldeham, 


CALENDAB    OF   CLOSK    ROLLS. 


1371.  Membrane.  I8d — cont. 

Nuttele  and  Kyngesle  co.  Sutliampton.  Witnesses  :  John  Knyvet, 
the  chancellor,  Richard  Lescrope  the  treasurer,  Nicholas  de  Carru 
keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  Edward  de  Seint  John,  Bernard  Brocas, 
Hugh  Caniovs,  Ralph  de  Norton  knights.  Dated  Estworldeham, 
9  July  48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  de  Burgherssh  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
appointing  Thomas  Chamberleyn  of  Hesshete  to  deliver  to  the  king 
seisin  of  the  whole  manor  of  Estworldeham  and  lands  etc.  in  Estworlde- 
ham, Nuttele  and  Kyngesle  co.  Suthampton  according  to  the  said 
John's  charter.     Dated  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  11  July. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  made  12  July  by  Walter  Perlee,  Walter 
Clopton  of  Dorset,  Michael  Skillyng  and  Richard  Munk  of  Wiltesir, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  for  John  Leghe  and  John  Wiche 
merchants  of  New  Sarum,  that  they  shall  not  hinder  the  Lumbards 
from  gathering  and  buying  wool  in  Wiltesir. 

Indenture  made  between  Hugh  de  Whitacre  and  William  de  Elynton, 
being  the  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  in  chancery  for  211.  made 

12  July  48  Edward  III  by  the  said  William  to  the  said  Hugh,  upon 
condition  that  if  the  said  Hugh  die  within  six  years  after  Midsummer 
day  last,  his  executors  shall  until  the  end  of  that  term  hold  a  messuage, 
one  carucate  of  land  and  4tl.  5s.  Id.  of  rent  in  Sulgrave  co.  Norhampton, 
now  held  for  life  by  the  said  Hugh  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
between  him  and  the  said  William  and  Joan  his  wife,  without  being 
thrust  out  by  the  said  William  and  Joan,  the  heirs  of  the  said  William, 
or  by  any  other  having  a  right  therein,  if  it  be  not  for  waste  or  other 
cause  tending  to  the  disherison  of  the  said  William  or  his  heirs,  or  that 
if  so  thrust  out,  the  said  William  and  Joan  or  the  heirs  of  the  said 
William  shall  within  one  month  recompense  them  to  the  amount 
of  the  profit  and  rent  from  that  time  to  the  end  of  the  said  term.   Dated 

13  July  the  year  aforesaid.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  13  July. 

July  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.  ■  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William 
Westminster,  vicar  of  Newenham,  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Norwich  of  London  and 
Henry  Astewyk  of  Hertfordshire  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him 
and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  John  Clerk  of  Caldecote  is  impleading  him  before  the  said 
justices  for  an  alleged  trespass,  that  by  the  king's  writ  de  judicio  he 
is  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not 
before  them  to  answer  thereupon,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer 
and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  John  de  Norwich  and 
Henry  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  him 
before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  named. 

Membrane  lid. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  statute  merchant  in  2,000  marks 
payable  at  London  on  Christmas  day  next,  made  by  Sir  Gilbert  Talbot 


48    EDWARD    III.  89 


1374.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

lord  of  Irchenfeld  and  John  de  Kyngeefold  to  Sir  Thomas  d(  Felt  on 
knight  before  Adam  de  Bury  mayor  of  London,  upon  condition  that 
they  or  one  of  them,  their  heirs  or  executors,  shall  pay  1,000  marks 
to  the  said  Thomas,  his  heirs  or  executors  or  to  their  attorneys, 
at  London  in  the  house  of  John  de  Stodey  citizen  of  London  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Martin  in  the  Vintry,  to  wit  250  marks  at  Christmas 
next  or  within  one  month  after,  250  marks  at  Easter  following  or  within 
one  month  after,  250  marks  at  Midsummer  following  or  within  one 
month  after,  and  250  marks  at  Michaelmas  following  or  within  one 
month  after,  provided  they  shall  not  be  bound  to  make  such  payment 
at  any  of  those  terms  if  the}T  have  not  an  acquittance  for  every  payment, 
the  said  Thomas  binding  himself,  his  heirs  and  executors,  to  surrender 
the  said  statute  merchant  when  payment  shall  be  fully  made.  Dated 
London  in  the  house  of  the  said  John  Stodey,  15  (sic)  July  48 
Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Thomas  de  Felton,  14  (sic) 
July. 

July  14.  Stephen  Coughtele  parson  of  Little  Sandale  to   William   '  in  the 

Westminster.  Lane  '   parson  of   Wykham   and  John   West   of  Ayot  Laurence  co. 
Hertford.     Recognisance  for  401.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Charter  of  Adam  Bierdene  parson  of  St.  Mary  atte  Hulle  London, 
giving  to  Sir  John  Devorose  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  customs  and  the  services  of  all  his 
tenants  free  and  neif,  his  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them  in  Esyngden 
and  Bishops  Hatfeld  co.  Hertford,  and  granting  to  the  said  Sir  John, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  remainder  of  all  the  lands  of  Enefeld,  the 
manor  of  Oxeye  by  Wat-fiord,  and  the  manor  of  Horton  co.  Bokyngham 
now  held  of  John  de  Luda  for  life  by  Amice  de  Luda  his  mother  with 
reversion  to  her  said  son  and  to  his  heirs,  all  which  premises  the  said 
Adam  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  fitz  Nichol.  Witnesses  : 
John  Lodeford,  Thomas  Maldon,  John  Soke,  Richard  atte  Hulle, 
Roger  Modysprot,  Henry  Leg',  John  atte  Barre.  Dated  Bishops 
Hatfeld,  10*  July  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  Jul}'. 

Writing  of  John  de  Luda,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir 
John  Deverose  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  right  in  the  lands, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  customs  and  services  of  tenants 
free  and  neif,  the  ueifs  and  all  thai  goes  with  them  in  Esynden  and 
Bishops  Hatfeld  co.  Hertford  which  were  late  of  John  lit/.  Nichol, 
and  in  the  lands  in  Enefeld,  the  manor  of  Oxeye  by  Watford  and  the 
manor  of  Horton  co.  Bokyngham  which  Amice  de  Luda  his  mother 
holds  for  life  with  reversion  to  him  the  said  John  de  Luda  and  to  his 
heirs.  Witnesses  {as  the  last).  Dated  Bishops  Hatfeld.  11  July 
48  Edward   III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   1(5  July. 

July  14.         To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Salle 

Westminster,  of  London,  Thomas  Boteleston  oi  London,  John  Poumfreyl  oi  London 

and  John  clerk  of  London  to  staj  altogether  the  taking  ol  the  body  ol 


BQ  CALENDAR    OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


137-1.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Thomas  de  Wardelee  until  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  next,  sending 
the  said  mainpernors"  names  to  the  justices  at  Westminster,  also  this  writ ; 
as  by  divers  writs  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  take  Thomas 
de  Wardelee  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  on  that  day  to 
answer  Robert  de  Lenne  concerning  divers  alleged  trespasses  ;  and 
the  defendant  has  prayed  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready  so  to 
answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Richard  and  the 
others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him 
under  a  pain  of  40/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the 
day  named. 

July  10.  To  the  guardians  of  the  peace  in  Somerset  and  every  of  them.  Order 
Westminster,  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Martyn  clerk,  William  de  Clyfton  clerk, 
Adam  Whyther  and  Thomas  de  Wynterton  clerk  to  stay  altogether 
the  further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  said  guardians 
to  cause  John  Doget  to  come  before  them,  and  compel  him  to  find 
mainpernors  that  he  should  do  no  hurt  or  harm  to  the  prior  of 
Montacute,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol 
there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  and 
if  taken  and  imprisoned  for  that  cause  and  for  none  other,  order  to 
set  him  free  ;  as  that  writ  was  issued  at  the  suit  of  the  said  prior, 
averring  that  the  said  John  grievously  threatened  him  ;  but  the  said 
Richard  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40  marks  that  no  hurt  or  harm  shall 
happen  to  the  said  prior  by  the  said  John  or  by  his  procurement. 

To  William  de  Latimer  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  beyond  Trent, 
or  to  his  representative  in  the  forest  of  Ingelwode.  Order,  if  John 
de  Regill  vicar  of  Crosby  Ravens  worth,  who  is  taken  and  imprisoned 
in  Carleol  prison  for  an  alleged  trespass  of  venison  in  the  said  forest 
for  which  he  is  indicted,  shall  find  twelve  true  men  of  that  bailiwick 
who  will  mainpern  to  have  him  before  the  justices  for  pleas  of  the 
forest  in  Cumberland  at  their  next  coming  thither  to  stand  to  right 
thereupon,  to  deliver  him  in  bail  to  those  twelve  men,  if  replevisable 
according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest,  bringing  before  the  said  justices 
the  names  of  those  men,  also  this  writ. 

July  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Derby.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  de 
Westminster.  Ketilby  chaplain,  by  mainprise  of  William  de  Duffeld,  Geoffrey  de 
Chaddesden,  John  de  Aldewerk  and  John  de  Coventre  of  Derbyshire 
to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents 
is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  prior  of  the  order 
of  friars  of  Mount  Carmel  Notyngham  is  impleading  him  before 
the  said  justices  to  render  up  a  certain  cup  price  100s.,  that  by  writ 
de  judicio  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that 
he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  thereupon,  and  that 
he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  William  de  Duffeld  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery 
under  a  pain  of  20Z.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day 
named. 

July  25.         To  the  abbess  and  convent  of  Wilton.     Order  to  grant  John  de 
Moor  End.    Wendlyngburgh  the  king's  clerk  such  a  3Tearly  pension  of  that  house 


48    EDWAKI)    111.  91 


1374.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

as  shall  befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  them,  making 
him  letters  patent  thereupon  under  the  chapter  seal,  and  writing  again 
to  the  king  without  delay  what  they  will  do  ;  as  tin-  abbess  by  reason 
of  her  new  creation  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the  kin 
clerks  at  the  king's  nomination,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the 
John,  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s. 

Membrane  IQd. 

Writing  of  Gilbert  Talbot  lord  of  Irchenfeld,  being  a  grant  with 
warranty  to  John  de  Kyngesfold  and  his  heirs  of  the  remainder  of  the 
manors  of  Donynton  co.  Bukingham,  Melton  co.  Kent  and  Izenyng 
co.  Suffolk,  now  held  in  dower  of  the  said  Gilbert's  heritage  by  Mary 
who  was  wife  of  Aymer  de  Valence  late  earl  of  Penbroke  with  reversion 
to  the  said  Gilbert  and  to  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  John  Laundeles, 
Nicholas  YYike,  John  Aure.     Dated  London,  13  July  48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Gilbert  Talbot  knight  lord  of  Irchenfeld,  being  a  grant 
to  John  de  Kyngesfold,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40/., 
to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  of  the  said 
Gilbert's  manor  of  Eccleswall  and  all  other  his  lands  in  Herefordshire 
and  the  march  of  Wales,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears ;  and  he 
has  delivered  to  the  said  John  \2d.  in  name  of  seisin.  Dated  London, 
13  July  48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Gilbert  Talbot  lord  of  Irchenfeld,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  de  Kyngesfold  and  his  heirs  of  the  manor  of  Polieote 
co.  Bukingham.  Witnesses  :  John  Laundeles,  Nicholas  Wyke,  John 
Aure.     Dated  London,  13  July  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  14  July. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Gilbert  Talbot  lord  of  Irchenfeld  and 
John  de  Kyngesfold,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  grant  by  the  said  Gilbert 
made  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs  of  the  reversion  of  the  manors  ol 
Donynton  co.  Bukingham,  Melton  co.  Kent  and  Izenyng  co.  Suffolk, 
now  held  in  dower  by  Mary  who  was  wife  of  Sir  Aymer  de  Valence  late 
earl  of  Pembroke  of  the  said  Gilbert's  heritage,  of  a  quitclaim  by  the 
said  Gilbert  made  to  the  said  John  of  the  manor  of  Pelicote  co.  Buking- 
ham, and  of  a  third  grant  by  the  said  Gilbert  made  to  the  said  John 
and  his  heirs  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40Z.  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of 
Eccleswall  and  all  the  said  Gilbert's  lands  in  Herefordshire  and  the 
march  of  Wales,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Gilbert,  his  heirs. 
executors  or  others  for  them  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  to  Sir  Thomas 
de  Felton,  his  heirs  or  executors,  1,000  marks  at  Christ  mas.  Easter, 
Midsummer  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  or  within  a  month 
of  those  terms,  for  security  whereof  they  the  said  Gilbert  and  John  are 
bound  to  the  said  Thomas  by  statute  merchant  in  2.000  marks; 
covenant  by  the  said  John,  binding  himself,  his  heirs  and  executors, 
to  the  said  Gilbert  in  the  amount  of  the  mesne  profits  and  issues  of  the 
aforesaid  manors  in  case  the  said  countess  shall  die  before  the  said 
terms  of  payment,  and  no  default  be  made  (herein  by  the  said  Gilb 
In-  heirs  or  executors.  Dated  London,  13  duly  48  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  M  July. 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1374.  Membrane  Hid — cont. 

Charter  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Roger  Colryth,  in  her  widow- 
hood, giving  with  warranty  during  her  life  to  John  Quenyld  and 
William  Seward  and  to  their  assigns  her  manor  of  Colryth  with  all 
lands,  rents  and  services,  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  commodities  and  easements  thereto 
belonging  in  the  town  of  Bentele  in  Suthampton.  Witnesses  : 
Thomas  Byflete,  John  atte  Burwe,  Nicholas  Huse,  Thomas  Cantels- 
angre,  Thomas  de  Welee.  Dated  the  town  of  Bentele  aforesaid, 
Saturday  before  St.  George  47  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Roger  Colryth,  in  her  widow- 
hood, being  a  letter  of  attorney  appointing  Nicholas  Husee  to  deliver 
to  John  Quenyld  and  William  Seward  seisin  of  the  whole  manor  of 
Colryth  as  in  lands,  rents  etc.  according  to  her  charter  to  them  made. 
Dated  the  town  of  Bentele  co.  Suthampton,  Saturday  before  St.  George 

47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  14  July  this  year. 

Charter  of  John  fltz  Nicholl,  giving  to  Sir  Adam  de  Bierden  rector  of 
St.  Mary  atte  Hill  London,  Henry  Englissh  and  Master  Adam  Englissh, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents,  customs  and  services  of  all 
his  tenants  free  and  neif,  his  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  with 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.  in  Esenden  and  Bishops  Hatfeld 
co.  Hertford,  and  granting  to  them  the  reversion  of  all  the  lands  in 
Enefeld,  of  the  manor  of  Oxeye  by  Watford,  and  the  manor  of  Horton 
co.  Bokyngham  now  held  of  John  de  Luda  by  Amice  de  Luda  his 
mother  for  her  life  with  reversion  to  her  said  son  and  to  his  heirs. 
Witnesses  :  Simon  de  Mordon,  John  Pyell,  John  Wroth,  William 
Kyngeston,  Nicholas  Exton,  John  atte  Barre,  John  Asshwell,  John 
Phillipot.     Dated  London,  Michaelmas  day  46  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  fitz  Nichole,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  John  Deverose 
knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  rents,  customs  and  services  of  tenants  free  and  neif,  the 
neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them  etc.  in  Esyngdon  and  Bishops  Hatfeld 
co.  Hertford,  and  of  all  the  lands  in  Enefeld,  the  manor  of  Oxeye  by 
Watford,  and  the  manor  of  Horton  co.  Bukyngham  now  held  of 
John  de  Luda  for  life  by  Amice  de  Luda  his  mother  with  reversion 
to  her  said  son  and  to  his  heirs.     Dated  Bishops  Hatfeld,  12  July 

48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  16  July  this  year. 

July  27.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas 
Westminster.  Tremenel  of  Warwickshire,  William  Wightman,  Thomas  de  Bokyng- 
ham and  Hugh  Sulgrave  of  Norhamptonshire,  to  stay  the  exigents 
against  Roger  Colet,  John  [Bayton],  Robert  Atkynnes  and  William 
Brekesheld  and  the  taking  of  their  bodies,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
king  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  Roger  le  Straunge 
impleaded  John  Burnell,  Roger  Colet,  John  Bayton,  Robert  Atkynnes 
and  William  Brekesheld  before  the  king  for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  the 
said  Roger  Colet,  John,  Robert  and  William  are  put  in  exigents  in 
that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that  they  came  not  there  to  answer  him, 


j-    EDWARD    111.  93 


1374.  Membrane   IQd—Cont. 

and  petition  is  made  to  the  king  to  stay  the  exigents  against  them  ; 
and  the  said  Nicholas  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery 
to  have  the  said  Roger  Colet,  John,  Robert  and  William  before  the 
king  on  the  day  named. 

The  like  writ  to  the  same  sheriff  in  favour  of  William  Gybboun, 
William  Sprot  chaplain  and  Roger  de  Arderne. 

Membrane  I5d. 

Aug.  12.  To  John  de  Hcrmesthorp  the  king's  clerk,  warden  of  the  hospital 

Westminster,  of  St.  Katherinc  by  the  Tower  of  London.  Request  to  admit  Joan 
Venour  to  the  said  hospital,  ministering  to  her  such  maintenance 
as  one  sister  thereof  receives,  and  writing  again  to  the  king  without 
delay  what  he  will  do  at  this  request  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that 
Alice  de  Xorthtoft  one  of  the  said  sisters  is  dead,  and  he  has  thought 
fit  to  send  thither  the  said  Joan,  willing  to  make  provision  for  her 
maintenance. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Xorffolk.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Weston 
and  Hervey  Rokhawe  of  London  '  goldsmyth  '  to  stay  the  further 
execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  him  to  attach  Peter  Durant 
so  as  to  have  him  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine 
of  Michaelmas  to  answer  as  well  the  king  as  Henry  Edward  wherefore 
he  withdrew  from  the  said  Henry's  service  before  the  term  agreed 
contrary  to  the  ordinance,  and  order  to  bring  this  writ  before  the  said 
justices  on  that  day  ;  as  on  the  said  Peter's  behalf  petition  is  now 
made  to  the  king  for  a  stay,  seeing  that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right 
in  all  things  and  to  answer  the  king  and  the  said  Henry  ;  and  the 
said  John  and  Hervey,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  main- 
perned under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at 
the  day  named. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  in  favour 
of  Thomas  de  Grymesby  parson  of  Melford  by  mainprise  of  William 
Chaloner  of  London  and  John  Coteler  of  Melford  ;  as  lately  by  writ 
de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said  parson  so  as 
to  have  his  body  Del  re  the  justices  at  Westminster  at  a  set  day  in 
that  writ  contained  to  answer  Henry  bishop  of  Norwich  concerning 
the  alleged  debt  and  detenue  of  20/.  ;  and  on  the  said  parson's 
behalf  etc.  (as  above). 

Indenture  made  between  Dame  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Sir  Hugh 
fitz  Simond  and  Richard  Lyons  citizen  of  London,  being  a  lease  during 
her  life  to  the  said  Richard,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  her  manor 
in  Lyston  co.  Esses  called  the  '  Nethermaner,'  the  advowson  of  the 
church  excepted,  rendering  yearly  in  the  said  town  of  Lyston  162. 
to  the  said  Margaret  or  her  assigns  at  Christmas,  Easter,  Midsummer 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  power  being  reserved  to  distrain 
for  arrears  in  all  the  said  Richard's  lands  in  that  town;  covenants 

that    the   I  shall  maintain  a  grange  now    being  upon  the  manor, 

and   shall   not    cut    or  fall   trees   growing   within   or   upon    the   ditches 

Burrounding  the  Bame,  that  if  the  rent  be  fifteen  days  in  arrear  after 

any    term,    or    if    the    lessee    shall    infringe    any    Of    these   covenants,    n 

shall  be  lawful  for  the  said   Margaret   without  gainsaying  to  enter 


t  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1374.  Membrane  I5d — cont. 

again  and  hold  the  whole  manor  in  her  former  estate  with  all  goods 
and  chattels  thereupon  found,  and  for  defeasance  of  a  bond  in  1001. 
to  her  made  by  the  lessee,  upon  condition  that  he,  his  heirs  or  assigns, 
shall  pay  the  said  rent  and  perform  the  covenants  aforesaid.  Dated 
London.  6  August  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Margaret  at  Canter- 
bury. 11  August,  before  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury  by 
virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem ;  and  by  the  said 
Richard  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster,  16  August. 

Gabriel  Fogatus  merchant  of  Plesancia  in  Lumbardy  in  chancery 
appoints  Lewis  Andreu  of  Florence  his  attorney  to  sue  for  and  receive 
his  goods  lately  taken  at  le  Rye  in  a  certain  tarit  of  Genoa  (Janua), 
Manuel  Vento  of  Genoa  owner  (patronus). 


Aug.  4.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  Bursy 

Westminster,  and  Robert  Camel  of  Devon  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  Walter 
Boys  of  Exeter,  and  to  set  him  free  from  prison  if  attached,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  king,  although  lately  by  writ  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  attach  the  said  Walter  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  king 
in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  next  to  answer  Henry  Tamworth  upon 
an  appeal  of  mayhem  and  breach  of  the  peace  ;  as  the  said  Nicholas 
and  Robert  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have 
him  before  the  king  at  that  day. 

July  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Master  John 
Westminster.  Wyclyf  of  Leycestershire  and  Ralph  Strode  of  London  to  stay  the 
further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  him  to  take  Richard 
Beneger  parson  of  Donyngton  and  imprison  him  until  he  should  find 
[security]  not  to  depart  over  sea  nor  send  thither  in  order  to  do  aught 
to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown  or  of  the  realm,  and  if  the  said 
Richard  be  taken,  order  to  set  him  free  ;  as  the  said  John  and  Ralph 
have  mainperned  in  chancery  that  he  shall  not  prosecute  or  attempt 
aught,  or  cause  aught  to  be  prosecuted  or  attempted  over  sea  which 
may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown  or  of  the  laws  of 
England. 

Aug.  25.         William  Wakeleyn  of  Norhamptonshire  to  Thomas  West  and  Robert 

Westminster,  de  Heyworth  clerks.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in 

default  of  payment,  of   his   lands  and  chattels  in  Norhamptonshire. 

Writing  of  Thomas  West  and  Robert  de  Heyworth  clerks,  being  a 
bond  to  William  Wakeleyn  of  Norhamptonshire  in  10  marks  payable  at 
the  Purification  next  in  the  church  of  St.  Dunstan  by  '  Temple  barre ' 
London.  Dated  London,  Thursday  the  feast  of  St.  Bartholomew 
48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  August. 

Aug.  18.  To  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  Roger  de  Kirketon,  Walter  Pedwardyn, 
Westminster.  Richard  Hobdene  and  John  de  Repynghale.  Order  to  stay  until  the 
octaves  of  Michaelmas  next  the  further  execution  of  divers  the  king's 
late  commissions  appointing  them,  four,  three  and  two  of  them,  of 
whom  the  said  Thomas  or  Roger  should  be  one,  justices  to  make 
inquisition  by  true  men  of  Lincolnshire  what  evildoers  and  disturbers 


48    EDWARD    III. 


1374.  Membrcnu    I5d — cant. 

of  the  peace  together  with  Thomas  dc  Meaux  of  Billyngeye,  William 
Beket  and  John  Pole  of  Billyngeye  committed  divers  assaults  upon 
the  prior  of  Cattele,  brother  Thomas  Pedwardyn  and  John  Digby 
canons  his  fellows  at  Billyngeye,  beating,  wounding  and  evil 
entreating  them  so  that  their  lives  were  despaired  of,  and  other 
trespasses,  and  appointing  them  to  hear  and  determine  those  trespa- 
according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England,  and  if  by  reason  of  the 
premises  they  have  begun  any  process  against  the  said  Thomas  de 
Meaux,  William  and  John  Pole  or  others,  order  to  cause  the  same  to 
be  continued  until  the  octaves  aforesaid  ;  as  the  king  is  informed 
that  the  parties  have  promised  and  agreed  to  stand  to  the  award 
and  judgment  of  the  earl  of  Angos. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Exton,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Nicholas  de  Exton  his  brother,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  estate, 
right  or  title  of  the  said  Richard  in  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
.Middlesex  sometime  of  John  de  Padebury,  and  in  the  lands  and 
tenements  in  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  Holbourne  in  a  street  called 
Faitourlane  sometime  of  John  de  Thame  worth.  Witnesses  :  John 
Boterwyk,  Roger  Leget,  Roger  Potyngton,  Stephen  Holbourne, 
William  atte  Marche.     Dated  Holbourne,  8  September  48  Edward  HI. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  September. 

Sept.  14.         Robert  de  Dynelay  and  Richard  his  brother  to  Thomas  de  Dynelay. 
Westminster.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  425  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  lid. 

Aug.  12.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Robeit  Watlyng- 
Westminster.  ton  of  Oxfordshire,  Robert  Joce  of  London  '  vyntere,'  William  atte 
Gate  of  London  and  William  Cornhulle  of  London  '  vyntere  '  of  the 
city  of  London,  to  stay  the  further  execution  of  a  writ  of  exigents 
against  John  son  of  Thomas  Pynnere,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  .Michaelmas  ;  as  lately  by 
writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  put  the  said  John  in 
exigents  from  busting  to  busting  until  outlawed  if  he  should  not 
appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him  and  keep  him  in  safe 
custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  at  that  day 
to  answer  William  Lynchelade  citizen  and  mercer  of  London  concerning 
the  rendering  of  an  account  for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver  of  the 
said  Williams  moneys  ;    and  the  said  John  is  ready  so  to  answer  and 

nd  to  right   in  all  things,   [praying]  a  stay;    and  the  said    Rol 
and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  40/.  to 
have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  oam<  '1. 

Aug.  29.        To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Like  order,  mutatia  mutandis,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  William  O  plain  and  their  petition 

shews  that   John   Wayte  clerk   i-  impleading  them  before  the  king 
for  an  alleged  ti  .  that  I  re  pat  in  exigents  in  that  county 

to  he  outlawed  for  thai   thej   came  not   before  the  king  to  answer 
thereupon,  and  that  they  are  ready  bo  to  answi  i  and  stand  to  right 


I'ALKNDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1374,  Membrane  \4d — cont. 

[in]  all  things  ;  and  Robert  Chaumberleyn,  Richard  Barfot,  William 
Hunt  and  John  Hubert  of  Essex,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainpcrncd  under  a  pain  of  20/.  etc. 

Sept.  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Welleford 

Westminster,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London  and  John  Damport  of  London  to 
stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  Richard  Fouke  of  Cantebrigge,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Martin 
next  ;  as  on  his  behalf  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing 
that  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the 
said  Richard  and  keep  him  in  safe  custody  in  prison  so  as  to  have  his 
body  before  the  said  justices  on  that  day  to  answer  Henry  de  Lacford 
concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  40L,  and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer 
and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  John  and  John,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40Z.  to  have 
him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

Writing  of  Ismania  who  was  wife  of  William  son  of  Edmund  Nortoft, 
in  her  widowhood,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Edmund  Warner 
of  Great  Waltham  and  Joan  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
Edmund  Warner,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of 
Great  Waltham  now  held  bj7  them  the  said  Edmund  and  Joan  during 
the  said  Joan's  life  with  reversion  to  the  said  Ismania  being  heir  of  Henry 
Porter,  and  which  were  lately  of  John  Waleys  father  of  the  said  Joan. 
Dated  Waltham  aforesaid,  20  August  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
5  September. 

Writing  of  Katherine  de  la  Pole,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Edmund 
de  Mortemer  earl  of  la  Marche  and  Ulvester  and  to  Dame  Philippa  his 
wife  of  the  manors  of  Mersshwodevale  co.  Dorsete  and  Brymesfeld 
co.  Gloucestre  to  her  the  said  Katherine  granted  by  Lionel  duke  of 
Clarence,  and  all  manner  of  rents,  annuities  and  other  charges  what- 
soever issuing  therefrom.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Lovell,  Sir  Robert  de 
Aisshton,  Sir  John  de  Bromwych  knights,  Sir  John  de  Bysshopeston, 
Sir  William  de  Forde  clerks.  Dated  London,  Thursday  after  St.  James 
the  Apostle  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  7  September. 

Aug.  20.  To  the  guardian  of  the  spirituality  of  the  archbishopric  of  Canter- 
Westminster,  bury  during  the  vacancy  of  the  see.  Request  for  his  prayers,  and  the 
prayers  of  the  clergy  of  that  diocese,  that  God  will  direct  the  king 
by  the  way  of  his  commands,  and  for  the  prosperity  and  peace  of  the 
realm,  the  princes,  nobles  and  people  thereof,  hoping  that  such  prayers 
among  other  works  of  piety  will  be  of  much  profit  in  obtaining  divine 
mercy. 

[Foedera.] 

The  like  to  the  following  bishops  :  [the  names  left  blank]. 

[Ibid.] 

Writing  of  John  Bollok  '  tapicer  '  citizen  of  London,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  William  Bollok  his  brother,  Giles  de  Kellesey 
1  tapicer  '  citizens  of  London,  and  Thomas  Hermesthorp  sometime 
parson  of  St,  Mary  Fenchurch  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all 


48    EDWARD    III.  •<: 


1374.  Membrane.    \\d — cont. 

lands,  rents  and  services  in  Hallyng,  Cokeleston  and  Rochester  co.  Kent 
which  they  had  of   the  said  John's  gift  and  feoffment.      Witness* 
John  Pere.  Thomas  atte   Barnet,  Richard    Estbroke,  John  Pontfreit, 
Riohard  Dygon.     Dated  London,  30  July  48  Edward  HI. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
11  September. 

Writing  of  Thomas  White  of  Rouchestre  co.  Kent,  being  a  bond  to 
Robert  Dyngelee  esquire  and  Richard  Dyngelee  his  brother  in  19/.  2s. 
of  them  received  on  loan,  to  be  paid  in  London  26s.  Sd.  at  Christmas 
next,  265.  Sd.  at  Christmas  following,  and  so  from  year  to  year  until 
the  said  sum  be  fullv  paid.  Dated  London,  Thursday  the  Exaltation 
of  Holy  Cross  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
14  September. 

Membrane  13c?. 

Charter  of  John  Sepham  of  Shorham  co.  Kent,  giving  with  warranty 
to  William  Xeuport  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  the  said  John's  manor  called  Sepham  in  the  parishes  of 
Shorham  and  Otteford  co.  Kent,  with  rents,  services,  suits  of  court, 
reliefs,  heriots,  escheats,  homages,  wards,  marriages,  woods,  ditches, 
waters,  ways,  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.  whatsoever 
thereto  belonging.  Dated  Otteford,  4  .May  48  Edward  III.  Witnesses  : 
John  Boklonde,  William  Okebourne,  William  Kerle,  Richard  Depedene, 
Robert  Curtays,  Hamon  Tymberue. 

Charter  of  John  Sepham  of  Shorham  co.  Kent,  giving  with  warranty 
to  William  Xeuport  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  the  said  John's  manor  called  le  Rye  in  the  parish  of  Otteford 
co.  Kent,  with  rents  etc  (as  above).     Date  and  witnesses  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  in  the 
chancery  at  Westminster,  18  October. 

Charter  indented  of  William  Xeuport  citizen  and  fishmonger  of 
London,  giving  to  John  Sepham  of  Shorham  the  said  William's  manor 
of  Sepham  in  the  parishes  of  Shorham  and  Otteford,  with  rents  etc. 
(as  above),  which  manor  he  the  said  William  lately  had  of  the  said 
John's  gift,  to  hold  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  under 
condition  that  the  said  John,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  yearly  pay  to 
the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  in  his  manor  of  Evor  in  the 
parish  of  Kyngesdoune  five  quarters  of  wheat  at  All  Saints,  and  five 
quarters  of  barley  at  the  Purification,  and  shall  pay  and  discharge  the 
Said  William,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  4  marks  of  yearly  rent  due  to 
the  heirs  of  Thomas  Shenle  at  le  Nokelte  and  issuing  from  the  said 
William's  manor  of  le  Rye  which  he  lately  had  of  the  said  John's  gift, 
and  also  of  all  rents,  ploughing,  reaping,  carriage,  Lopping  of  wood, 
tossing,  stacking  and  carriage  of  hay.  -uit  of  court,  service  in  the 
office  of  reeve  and   bedel,  and  all  other  nuts,  services  and  charges  to 

the  archbishop  of  Canterbury   belonging  to  his  manor  of  Otteford 

because  Of  the  Said    manor    of    Rye    and    thereof    due  or    arising,  the 
king's   tallage   when   it   -hall    happen   only   excepted  ;     and    if   the   said 

John,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  therein  fail,  or  if  the  said  William,  his 
heirs  or  assigns,  shall  be  distrained  for  any  rent  or  service  of  the  -aid 

I  K   7 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1  .'.7  1.  Membrane    13d — cont. 

manor  of  Rye  due  or  arising,  and  the  said  John,  his  heirs  or  assigns, 
shall  not  within  eight  days  acquit  them  thereof  contenting  them  fully 
of  their  damages,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  William  and  his  heirs 
to  enter  again  and  hold  the  said  manor  of  Sepham  to  them  and  their 
assigns  without  gainsaying.  Dated  Otteford,  10  May  48  Edward  III. 
Witnesses  (as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  18  October. 

Oct.  24.  Gerard  de  Braybroke  the  elder  knight  to  Richard  de  Tissynton 

Westminster,  clerk.  Recognisance  for  20?.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 

Nicholas  de  Goushille  knight  to  Anker  Frechevyle  of  Staveley, 
Thomas  de  Staunton  and  William  de  Plomeley.  Recognisance  for 
100  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied  etc.  in  Derbyshire. 

Oct.  25.  Henry  de  Briddale  clerk  to  John  de  Sleford    clerk  and  John  de 

Westminster.  Ayermyn  clerk.  Recognisance  for  201.  payable  by  instalments  ; 
to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods 
in  Bukinghamshire. 

Walter  de  Cokesey  knight  to  John  son  of  John  de  Sutton  of  Lincoln. 
Recognisance  for  426Z.  18s.  4rf.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Worcestershire. 

Charter  of  Henry  Apuldrefeld,  giving  to  John  Pays,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  201.  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by 
even  portions  of  all  the  said  Henry's  lands  in  Sturmouth,  Estoure  in 
Chilham  and  Oterplaye  in  Chellocc,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ; 
and  the  said  John  is  put  in  seisin  thereof  by  payment  of  12d.  in  part 
of  the  first  year.     Dated  Monday  after  St.  Luke  48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Henry  de  Apuldrefeld,  being  the  confirmation  of  a  grant 
made  by  Thomas  de  Garwynton  to  John  Pays,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
during  the  life  of  Joan  wife  of  the  said  Henry,  of  a  yearly  rent  of 
20  marks  to  be  taken  at  All  Saints  and  Easter  of  all  the  lands  in 
Stourmouth  which  the  said  Thomas  had  of  the  said  Henry's  feoffment, 
with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Dated  Wednesday  after 
All  Saints  47  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  25  October  this  year. 

Oct.  25.  Adam  son  of  Robert  de  Hodershalle  to  John  de  Aldeleme.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  13  marks  8s.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Lancashire. 

Charter  of  John  Godfrey  of  Haveryll,  giving  to  Sir  John  de  Hilton 
clerk  for  life  a  yearly  rent  of  401.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions  of  all  the  said  John  Godfrey's  lands  in  Haveryll,  with 
power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  he  has  delivered  to  Sir  John  de 
Hilton  20s.  in  name  of  seisin.  Dated  London,  Thursday  before 
St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  October. 


48    EDWARD    III. 


1374. 


Membram    \3d — cotit. 


Oct.  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
•minster,  until  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  their  demand  made  by  exchequer 
summons  upon  Robert  de  Alyngton  and  Alice  his  wife,  sometime 
tenant  of  the  manor  of  Sentlynge,  for  the  issues  of  the  said  manor 
or  an  account  thereof  ;  as  a  plea  is  yet  pending  without  debate  in 
chancery  between  the  king  and  the  said  Robert  and  Alice  concerning 
that  manor. 

Writing  of  John  York  of  London,  being  a  general  release  to  Michael 
de  Ravendale  clerk  of  all  actions,  plaints  and  demands  by  reason  of 
any  covenant,  contract,  account,  debt,  trespass  or  other  matter  real 
or  personal.  Dated  the  inn  of  the  Convert-.  '  Chauncellerlane '  in 
the  suburb  of  London,  20  October  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  November. 

Membrane  \2d. 

Sept.  5.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 

Westminster,  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  sheriffs  to  cause  Peter 
Shusulle  and  Giles  Dygher  'Flemmyng  '  to  come  before  them,  and  to 
compel  the  said  Peter  and  Giles  to  find  mainpernors  who.  under  a  pain 
to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them,  would  mainpern  the  said  Peter  and 
Giles  that  they  should  do  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to  Richard  Godard, 
and  if  they  have  arrested  the  said  Peter  and  Giles,  order  to  set  them 
free  without  delay  ;  as  that  order  was  made  at  the  prayer  of  the  said 
Richard,  averring  that  the  said  Peter  and  Giles  threatened  him  in 
life  and  limbs;  but  John  de  Wadworth  and  John  Hermon  '  foubour  ' 
of  the  city  of  London  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20  marks 
that  they  shall  not  do  or  procure  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said 
Richard. 

Sept.  5.  To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Lewis  Andrewe 

Westminster,  of  Florence,  by  mainprise  of  Zanoby  Marty  n,  John  Saundre,  William 
Tethis  and  Leonard  Beuchyn  of  London  to  stay  the  further  publication 
of  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  Ins  body,  bringing  this 
writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that 
Richard  Paunesbury  of  Wemme  is  impleading  him  before  the  said 
justices  for  an  alleged  debt  of  400/.,  that  by  the  king's  writ  de  judicio 
he  is  put  in  exigents  in  Salop  to  be  out  la  wed  for  that  he  came  not 
before  the  said  justices  to  answer,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  and 
stand  to  right  in  all  things;  and  the  said  Zanoby  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
400/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  the  day  the  writ  di  judicio 
is  returnable. 

Sept.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Serle 
w-  fen  inster.  and  Thomas  Tillebury  of  London  to  stay  the  publication  of  the  exigents 
against  Stephen  Maynard  and  .John  Sauny  of  Fynchele  and  the  taking 
of  their  bodies,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king  the  day  the  writ 
exigents  is  returnable;  as  the  said  Stephen  and  John  are  put  in 
exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  thai  they  had  not  William 
Kirkehy  before  the  king  in  his  court  at  the  day  appointed,  as  they 
mainperned  to  do  ;  and  now  they  have  prayed  the  king  for  a  st 
they  are  ready  to  contenl  the  king  of  thai  which  pertains  to  him  for 
that    mainprise    and    to    Btand     to    righl    in    all    things  J    and    the 


LOO  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1374,  Membrane    1 2d — cont. 

paid  Richard  and  Thomas,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  100s.  to  have  the  said  Stephen  and 
John  before  the  king  at  the  day  mentioned  to  content  him  as  aforesaid. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.  Like  writ  of  supersedeas  in  favour  of 
William  de  Burton  of  Cantebrigge,  by  mainprise  of  William  Coche 
and  William  de  Multon  of  London. 

Sept.  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  WTiltesir.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  de  S  token  - 
Westminster.  bury  and  John  Blokleye  of  the  city  of  London  to  stay  the  exigents 
against  John  Ansty  vicar  of  Crikkelade  and  the  taking  of  his  body, 
bringing  this  writ  before  the  king  ;  as  John  Treweman  is  impleading 
the  said  vicar  before  the  king  for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  the 
defendant  is  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that 
he  came  not  before  the  king  to  answer,  as  the  king  has  learned,  and 
has  prayed  the  king  for  a  stay  as  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  further 
to  stand  to  right  in  that  behalf  ;  and  the  said  John  de  Stokenbury 
and  John  Blokleye,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  main- 
perned under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  his  body  before  the  king  the  day 
the  exigents  are  returnable. 

Writing  of  William  fitz  William  of  Wanebergh,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warrant}^  to  William  Marchaunt  of  Estbury,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  a  toft  called  Papwellescroft,  20  acres  of  arable  land  and  5|  acres  of 
meadow  in  '  Eforlong,'  pasture  for  seven  oxen  in  Northovere  and  for 
three  plough  horses  in  the  Worth  etc.  in  Estwanebergh,  rendering 
yearly  to  the  chief  lord  in  time  to  come  5s.  only  as  a  contribution 
towards  the  rent  due  to  the  chief  lord  of  the  tenement  late  of  John 
fitz  William.  Of  the  said  arable  land  2  acres  lie  together  in  the 
'  Balicroft '  between  land  of  the  rectory  and  land  of  John  le  Houpere, 
2  there  together  between  land  of  Robert  Palmere  and  land  of  John 
Ricardes,  2  acres  together  in  the  '  Cornmerssh '  between  land  of  John 
Maydekyn  and  land  of  John  Reysoun,  one  half  acre  there  between 
land  of  Thomas  Litle  and  land  of  Ralph  Jogul,  one  half  acre  in  the 
'  Breche  Overrudelake  '  between  land  of  John  Maydekyne  and  land  of 
William  Laneman,  one  acre  there  one  head  extending  upon  the 
'  Middelhegge '  by  land  of  the  warden,  one  acre  in  the  Northbreche 
between  land  of  John  Bakhous  and  land  of  William  atte  Whitebrigge, 
one  acre  there  one  head  extending  upon  the  Broke  by  land  of  the 
warden,  2  acres  together  one  head  extending  upon  Reysonsoles  by 
land  of  Thomas  Polton,  one  acre  at  'Wyndmullepost '  by  land  of 
William  Laneman,  one  acre  at  Melkpanne  by  land  of  Robert  Palmere, 
four  butts  making  one  acre  in  '  Litelcoumbe,'  one  acre  called  '  Gard- 
brodaker '  by  land  of  Robert  Palmer,  one  acre  at  Langelinch  by  land 
of  the  said  William  Marchaunt,  one  acre  at  '  Coppedstret '  by  land  of 
Thomas  Polton,  one  acre  lying  athwart  the  '  Weteforw '  by  '  Presteslond' 
and  one  acre  in  '  Coppedstonesforlong '  one  head  extending  upon  the 
'  Weteforwforlong.'  For  this  release  etc.  William  Marchaunt  has 
given  331.  Witnesses  :  John  Covyntree,  Robert  Palmere,  Thomas 
Fox,    John    Maj^dekyne,    Robert    Perham,    Robert    Eton.     Dated 

V        Wanebergh,  1  August  48  Edward  III. 

>'   \       Memorandum   of   acknowledgment   in   the    chancery    at   London, 
"  6  October.  * 


-»« 


*• 


i 
/ 


18    EDWARD    III.  101 


1374.  Membraru     [2d    cont. 

Writing  of  John  de  Cosyngton,  brother  of  Stephen  de  Cosyngton 
knight  of  Kent,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Adam  Praunceys, 
William  Balden,  John  Swetbon  clerk,  Richard  Croa  and  John  Pyel, 
their  heirs  ami  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Akrise  in  the  parish  of  Akrise 
by  Klham  and  the  manor  of  Cosyngton  in  the  parish  of  Aillesford 
and  Boxlee  co.  Kent.  Dated  London,  Tuesday  before  St.  Edward 
the  King  48  Edward   111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
10  October. 

Oct.  14.  John  Payn  citizen  and  armourer  of  London  to  William  de  Burton 

Westminster,  knight.     Recognisance    for   200    marks,    to    be    levied,    in   default   of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Oct.  16.  John  Cordray  clerk  to  Hugh  de  Gaudeby  clerk.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  8  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  .Sussex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  John  Worthe  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Roger  Dalyngregge,  his  heirs  and  assigns  of  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  in  Flecchynge,  Maresfeld,  Sorstedekaynes  and  elsewhere  in 
Sussex  and  Surrey  which  the  said  Roger  lately  had  by  grant  and  demise 
of  the  said  John,  and  of  a  yearly  rent  of  5  marks  which  the  said  Roger 
used  to  pay  him  for  the  premises.  Witnesses  :  John  Seyntcler, 
Thomas  Leukenore  knights,  Richard  Manfe,  Richard  de  Halle, 
William  Mareschal,  John  Boylv,  John  atte  Boure.  Dated  Flecchynge, 
Friday  after  St.  Luke  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  October. 

Oct.  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norfolk.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Norwich 

Westminster,  chaplain  and  Thomas  Kirkelee  of  Norfolk  to  stay  the  taking  a  second 
time  of  security  from  Simon  Gilbert  parson  of  St.  Margaret  Westwyk 
in  Norwich  and  Stephen  parson  of  Bouthorp,  although  lately  by  writ 
the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  of  them  security  that  they  should 
not  cross  over  to  foreign  parts  nor  attempt  ought  to  the  prejudice  of 
the  king  or  crown  ;  as  the  said  Robert  and  Thomas,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  them  under  a  pain  of  100/. 
that  they  shall  not  so  do. 

Membrane  lid. 
Sept.  14.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  proclamation 
Westminster,  to  be  made  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  on  the  king's  behalf 
forbidding  any  man  under  pain  of  forfeiture  bo  inflict  wrong,  trouble, 
hurt,  violence,  hindrance  or  grievance  in  their  persons  or  property  upon 
any  merchant*  or  others  of  Portugal  of  whatsoever  condition  coming 
into  the  king's  realm  and  power  at  their  pleasure  for  traffic  or  other 
honest  cause,  there  abiding  and  thence  departing,  but  to  enti 
them  peaceably  as  the  king's  friends  and  well  wishei  by  advice 

of  tie-  council  the  king  has  made  order  thai  all  merchants  and  oth 
of  Portugal  m.i\  so  come  thither,  there  abide  and  thence  depart  totheii 

own  parts  m>  often  as  shall  BOem  good  to  them. 

\F02dera,  with  erroneous  reference  t<>  »<■  iOd.] 


102 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L374. 


Membrane  lid — cont. 


The  like  to  the  following  : 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton  and  three  other  towns,  and 

of  the  city  of  Exeter. 
The  mayor  and  sheriff  of  Bristol. 
The  bailiffs  of  Briggewauter. 

William  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the 
Cinque  Ports  or  his  lieutenant. 
[Ibid.] 

Writing  of  John  duke  of  Brittany  count  of  Montfort  and  earl  of 
Richemont,  being  a  receipt  and  acquittance  to  Sir  Robert  de  Kanolles 
of  3.000  francs  of  gold  upon  his  bond.  Dated  London,  3  October  1374, 
48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  October. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Bitherne  vicar  of  Gestyngthorp,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Sir  Philip  Melrethe  clerk  of  a  yearly  rent  of  4  marks  to 
be  taken  during  the  said  vicar's  life  of  the  manor  of  Thele  co.  Hertford. 
Dated  Gestyngthorp,  1  September  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Gestnyngthorp  1  October, 
before  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  to  him 
addressed,  which  is  on  the  file  for  this  year. 

Oct.  18.  John  del  Clay  clerk,  Nicholas  de  Massyngham,  William  Bateman, 

Westminster.  John  Bisshop  and  Robert  Sterne  to  Gerard  de  Bray  broke  the  elder. 
Recognisance  for  2001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in  Norffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Oct.  19.  John  de  Nevylle  lord  of  Raby  knight  to  Robert  de  Knolles  knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Walter  de  Cokesey  knight  and  John 
son  of  John  de  Sutton  of  Lincoln,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  recog- 
nisance in  426/!.  13s.  4d.  to  the  said  John  made  by  the  said  Walter, 
upon  condition  that  the  said  Walter  and  Isabel  his  wife  shall  before 
the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next  come  before  Sir  Roger  de  Kirketon 
or  another  justice  agreed  upon  by  the  parties  in  the  counties  of 
Wyrcestre  or  Warrewyk,  and  shall  levy  a  fine,  with  warranty 
for  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Isabel,  of  six  messuages,  four 
tofts,  twelve  bovates  of  land,  14  acres  of  meadow,  100  acres  of 
wood  and  the  rent  of  lib.  pepper  in  Neubell,  Langwath  and  Maidewell 
co.  Lincoln  to  John  de  Sutton  the  father  and  his  heirs  according 
to  the  appointment  of  the  said  John  the  father  or  of  his  counsel, 
and  in  case  they  do  not  so,  that  they  shall  before  the  octaves  of  the 
Purification  come  before  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench  and  levy 
a  fine  as  aforesaid,  or  if  the  said  Isabel  die  whereby  such  fine  may  not 
be  levied,  that  the  said  Walter  or  some  other  in  his  name  shall  pay 
2131.  6s.  Sd.  to  the  said  John  the  father  or  to  his  executors  at  Lincoln 
on  the  Sunday  after  Easter  next,  so  that  the  said  John  the  father,  his 
heirs  or  assigns,  shall  that  same  day  demise  again  the  premises  without 
warranty  to  Sir  Walter,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  discharged  of  all  charges 
as  he  had  the  same  by  the  said  Walter's  feoffment,  and  that  a  fine 


4S    KDWAK1)    Iir. 


103 


1374. 


Membrane   \\d — cont. 


being  levied  aa  aforesaid.  Sir  Walter  shall  before  Easter  next  cause 

the  said  John  the  father,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  to  have  a  release 
with  warranty  of  the  premises  from  Henry  de  Penne  chaplain  and 
John  de  Orleton  ;  also  in  case  the  said  Walter,  his  heirs  or  some  other 
in  their  name,  shall  pay  2132.  6s.  Sd.  to  the  said  John  the  father  or  his 

executors,  and  the  said  John  the  father  or  his  heirs  will  not  make  the 
demise  aforesaid.     Dated  26  October  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  the  son  in  the 
chancery  at  Westminster,  26  October. 

Nov.  2.  To   the   sheriff   of   Kent.     Order,   for  particular   causes,    to   cause 

Westminster,  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's   behalf  forbidding  any   man 

of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof 

secretly  or  openly  to  take  wheat  out  of  England  to  any  foreign  parts, 

or  to  cause  it  to  be  so  taken. 

[Foedera,  with  erroneous  reference  to  m.  1GV/.] 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

The  like  to  William  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant  there. 

[Ibid.] 

Writing  of  Roger  Wolferston  and  Thomas  dil  Ook,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  John  Spice  of  the  manor  of  Spayneshalle  in  Wilynghale  Spayne 
co.  Essex.  Witnesses  :  Richard  Haverlond,  John  Belstede,  John 
Gerard.  Dated  Gippewich,  Monday  in  the  third  week  of  Lent  37 
Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Thomas,  7  November 
this  year. 

Nov.  8.  Gilbert  de    Culchith   to   John   de   Blakeburne.     Recognisance    for 

Westminster.  201.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Lancashire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 


John  Isak  to  John  Restaek  and  John  Penros. 
100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Cornwall. 


Recognisance  for 


Nov.  8.  To   A.   archbishop   of   York.     Prohibition   against    attempting   or 

Westminster,  suffering  to  be  attempted  by  authority  of  any  grant  or  licence  of  the 
king  to  Henry  Westbroke  clerk  or  by  any  other  authority  or  colour 
whatsoever  aught  which  may  tend  to  the  contempt  or  prejudice  of 
the  king,  to  impair  the  judgment  hereinafter  mentioned  and  the  effect 
thereof,  or  to  the  disherison  of  the  crown  or  people,  and  order  to 
revoke  without  delay  any  such  attempt  made  by  the  archbishop  oral 
his  command,  knowing  that  otherw  ise  the  king  w  il!  be  w  roth  w  ith  him 
not  without  cause  aa  one  who  impugns  the  rights  of  the  crown  ;  aa 
William  de  Fyncheden  knight  Richard  Mutford  clerk  and  John  de 
Dyngley  the  younger  lately  recovered  in  the  king's  court  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  against  John  late  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John 

of  Jerusalem  in  England  their  presentation  to  the  eh  inch  of  X  on  nan  ton 

in  the  diocese  of  York  lately  \ oid  and  in  their  gift,  as  appeara  l'.\  the 
tenor  <>l  the  record  and  process  sent  into  chancer}  at  the  king's  com* 
maud,  and  now  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  Henry,  pretending 


KM  CALENDAB    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


I  g  -  |  Membrane  1  id — cont. 

a  right  in  the  said  church  by  collation  of  the  pope,  which  he  has  not 
nor  may  have  for  that  the  same  is  of  lay  patronage  as  aforesaid,  and 
scheming  for  the  disherison  of  the  king  and  crown,  to  impugn  so  far  as 
he  may  the  judgment  rendered  in  the  king's  court,  and  to  disturb  John 
Went  whom  the  said  John  de  Dyngley  with  the  said  William  (now 
deceased)  presented  to  the  said  church,  is  purposing  to  cite  the  said 
John  Went  to  answer  before  the  archbishop  in  the  court  christian 
touching  his  possession  thereof,  and  to  prosecute  a  plea  therein  to 
impair  the  right  and  judgment  aforesaid,  to  the  disherison  of  John 
de  Dyngley  and  of  the  crown  and  the  subversion  of  the  laws  and 
customs  of  the  realm  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  resist  such  prejudice 
to  himself  and  the  crown  and  people,  as  he  is  bound  to  do. 

Membrane  l0d 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Robert  Plummere  of  London, 
being  a  lease  for  four  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  niade  by  mainprise 
of  William  Lambourne,  Arnald  Ingelbrygh'  and  Thomas  Gone  of  the 
counties  of  London  and  Middlesex,  of  the  subsidy  upon  cloths  for 
sale  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  and  in  Middlesex  granted  to 
the  king  by  the  lords  and  commons  of  the  realm  to  have  release  of  the 
forfeiture  of  ulnage  thereupon  laid  of  old  time,  to  wit  4rf.  the  cloth 
of  assize  without  grain,  6d.  the  cloth  of  assize  of  scarlet,  and  5d.  the 
cloth  of  assize  of  half  grain,  half  that  subsidy  of  every  half  cloth,  and 
in  proportion  of  every  other  cloth  exceeding  the  half  cloth  of  assize 
by  three  ells  or  more  not  being  a  whole  cloth,  or  exceeding  the  whole 
cloth  of  assize  by  three  ells  or  more,  taking  the  moiety  of  the  ancient 
forfeiture  thereof,  and  rendering  every  year  100  marks  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions.  Covenants  that  in  case  the  subsidy 
or  parcel  thereof  cease  by  order  of  the  king  or  council  during  that 
term  the  farmer,  his  deputies  and  heirs  shall  be  quit  of  his  farm  from 
the  time  such  payment  shall  first  cease  ;  that  they  shall  be  quit  toward 
the  king  in  time  to  come  of  all  impeachments  concerning  the  collection 
and  administration  of  the  subsidy,  saving  to  every  man  his  action  if 
he  will  complain  of  extortion  or  excess  ;  that  they  shall  never  be 
compelled  to  account  to  the  king  for  the  issues  of  the  subsidy,  but 
only  to  answer  for  their  said  farm  ;  that  the  king  has  given  licence  to 
let  the  same  to  farm  at  pleasure  to  any  who  will  take  it  in  gross  or  in 
parcel  without  impeachment  of  the  king  or  his  ministers  in  time  to 
come  ;  that  whereas  in  the  statute  it  is  contained  that  all  manner 
of  cloths  exposed  for  sale  before  being  sealed  with  the  seal  appointed 
for  the  purpose  shall  be  forfeit  to  the  king,  the  farmer  and  his  deputies 
shall  be  bound  to  deliver  by  indenture  all  cloths  found  so  forfeit  in 
the  time  of  his  farm  to  the  sheriff  of  the  county  where  they  shall  be 
found,  who  shall  answer  for  them  to  the  king  upon  his  account,  so 
that  by  such  indentures  the  farmer  and  his  deputies  shall  be  thereof 
discharged  ;  that  in  case  the  farmer  shall  have  occasion  to  sue  any 
persons  by  way  of  account  or  otherwise  for  aught  concerning  his 
farm,  the  king  will  lay  to  his  hand  and  be  a  party  in  aid  of  the  farmer  ; 
that  commissions  shall  be  made  to  particular  persons  at  the  farmer's 
nomination  to  make  inquisition  in  the  city  and  suburbs  and  in  the 
county  aforesaid  in  what  towns  and  places  cloth  is  made,  and  every 
maker  of  cloth  shall  be  forbidden  under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  suffer 
any  such  cloth  to  pass  out  of  his  keeping  until  it  be  sealed  with  the 


18  KDWAKI)    III.  |Ofi 


1374.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

seal  appointed  for  the  purpose;  thai  the  Beala  which  serve  for  this 
office  shall  from  Michaelmas  be  new  made  by  advice  of  the  council 
and  the  fanner,  and  the  other  seals  now  used  shall  be  given  up  and 
put  in  the  treasury  to  avoid  damage  which  might  thereby  happen  to 
the  fanner  during  the  said  term  ;  and  that  in  ease  the  Bubsidy  shall 
be  further  let  to  farm  after  the  said  term,  and  the  farmer  will  take  it, 
he  shall  have  the  preference  for  the  sum  that  others  will  give  without 
fraud  or  covin,  saving  always  to  the  king  the  moiety  of  the  forfeiture 
of  cloth  aforesaid.  Dated  Westminster,  II  October  48  Edward  III. 
French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Writing  of  John  abbot  of  Welhowe  and  the  convent,  giving  at  the 

instance  of  the  king  to  John  de  Waltham  clerk  40.s\  to  be  taken  of  their 
house  every  year  at  Christmas  by  him  or  his  attorney  at  Welhowe 
until  provision  be  by  them  made  for  him  of  an  acceptable  benefice. 
Dated  Welhowe  in  chapter.  (5  July  48  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment   by  the  abbot,  21   October. 

Oct.  30.  John  Goldestone  to  John  Blount.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to 

Westminster,  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Cambridgeshire. 

Writing  of  Michael  de  Ravendale  clerk,  being  a  general  release  to 
John  York  of  London  of  all  actions,  plaints  and  demands  by  reason 
of  covenant,  contract,  account,  debt,  trespass  or  other  matter  real  or 
personal.  Dated  the  inn  of  the  Converts  in  '  Chauncellerlane  '  in 
the  suburb  of  London.  20  October  48  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  November. 

Nov.  15.  William  son  of  Simon  Swanland  of  Middlesex  to  William  de  Bury 

Westminster,  citizen   and    fishmonger   of   London.     Recognisance    for   40/.,    to    be 

levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Hertfordshire. 

Cancelled  on   payment,   acknowledged   by   John   Baud  and    William 

Kelleshall  executors  of  William  de  Bury. 

Nov.  13.         Walter  Amy  as,  John  Abraham,  John  Donne.  John  l*i  at  clerks  and 

Westminster.  Ralph  de  Walsham  to  John  de  Neville  lord  of  Raby.      Recognisance 
for  2,000  marks,   to    be  levied  etc.   in  Norhamptonshire,  N'orilolk, 
Warwickshire  etc. 
Note  that  this  recognisance  was  received  by  the  chancellor. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Me  MBit  axe  9d. 

Nov.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  taking  of 

Westminster,  the  body  of  .Master  Thomas  Shepton  farmer  of  Chyweton  church  and 
of  the  archdeaconry  of  Wells,  although  lately  at  the  information  of 
John  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  signifying  to  the  king  by  Letters  patent 
that  the  said  Thomas  and  certain  others  of  that  diocese,  being  by  his 
authority  as  ordinary  excommunicated  by  reason  of  their  oontumaoy 
in  not  paying  the  tenth  last  granted  to  the  king  In  theolergj  of  England, 

would  not    Be  justified   bj   ecclesiastical  censures,  the  king  bj    writ 

ordered  the  sheriff  to  Justify  them  by  their  bodies  according  to  the 
custom  of  England  until  they  should  content  holy  church  M  well  for 


106  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1374,  Membrane  $d — cont. 

their  contempt  as  for  the  wrong  by  them  done  ;  as  in  consideration 
of  the  good  behaviour  heretofore  found  and  (as  the  king  hopes) 
hereafter  to  be  found  in  Simon  cardinal  of  Canterbury,  who  is  arch- 
deaeon  of  Wells,  the  king  of  his  favour  has  pardoned  the  said  cardinal 
the  portion  of  the  tenth  falling  upon  that  archdeaconry  ;  and  the 
said  Thomas  has  found  in  chancery  John  Wadham  and  John  Witteney 
of  Oxfordshire  his  mainpernors,  who  have  mainperned  for  him  that 
he  shall  truly  pay  to  the  collector  the  portion  of  the  said  tenth  falling 
upon  him  for  Chyweton  church. 

Nov.  14.         Robert  de  Plumpton  knight  to  William  de  Mirfeld  clerk.     Recog- 
Westminster.  nisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  John  de  Braham  knight  and  Margery  his  wife,  being  a  grant 
and  surrender  to  Sir  Robert  Mounteney  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  Heywode  in  the  town  of  Disse  co.  Norffolk  which  they 
hold  during  the  said  Margery's  life  of  the  said  Robert's  heritage,  the 
third  parts  of  the  manors  of  Gyppyngge  Neuton  co.  Suffolk  and  Gynge 
Mounteney  co.  Essex  and  of  20  marks  of  yearly  rent  to  be  taken  of 
William  Swanland  and  his  heirs  of  his  manor  of  North  Mymmes 
co.  Hertford,  which  they  hold  in  dower  of  his  heritage  by  endowment 
of  Sir  John  Mounteney  knight  the  said  Margery's  first  husband.  Dated 
Gyppyngge  Neuton,  Monday  after  St.  Martin  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  de  Braham, 
16  November. 

Writing  indented  of  Robert  Mounteney  knight,  granting  to 
Sir  John  de  Braham  knight  and  Margery  his  wife  during  the  said 
Margery's  life  a  yearly  rent  of  381.  to  be  taken  of  his  manors  of  Heywode 
co.  Norffolk,  Gyppyngg  Neuton  co.  Suffolk  and  Gynge  Mounteney 
co.  Essex  at  Christmas,  Easter,  Midsummer  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  for  further  security 
granting  to  the  said  John  and  Margery  during  the  said  Margery's 
life  a  yearly  rent  of  106s.  8d.  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid,  upon  condition 
that  if  the  said  rent  of  38/.  be  one  quarter  in  arrear  in  whole  or  in  part 
after  any  term  of  payment  it  shall  bs  lawful  for  the  said  John  and 
Margery  to  distrain  for  26s.  Sd.  of  the  said  rent  of  106s.  8d.,  and  if 
the  first  rent  be  truly  paid  the  latter  rent  shall  cease  so  long  as  the 
first  shall  be  so  paid.  Dated  Brantham  co.  Suffolk,  Thursday  the 
feast  of  St.  Edmund  Bishop  and  Confessor  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Robert  and  John, 
16  November. 

Nov.  20.         Thomas  Giffard  knight  to  Nicholas  Twyford  citizen   of  London. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  501.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Thomas  Giffard  knight  to  Nicholas  de  Twyford  citizen  and  goldsmith 
of  London.     Recognisance  for  200/.  to  be  levied  etc.  (as  above). 


48   EDWARD   III.  .  107 


1374-  Membrane    \)d — cont. 

Nov.  19.         Thomas  Flemmyng  of  Croston  and  John  del  Stone  of  Hekmunde- 
Westminster.  wyke  to  Robert  de  Faryngton  clerk.     Joint  and  several  reoognisanoe 
for  40s.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lancashire. 

Nov.  21.  Walter  de  la  Lee  knight  to  Robert  Marchal  the  elder  of  Welde  and 

Westminster.  John  le  Rons  of  Norton  Maundeville.     Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Philip  Grey  of  Landeford  to  John  Lysurs  of  Northmuskham. 
Recognisance  for  60/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Xotynghamshire. 

Writing  of  John  de  Charleton  of  Middlesex  and  Thomas  his  son. 
being  a  confirmation  with  warranty  to  John  son  of  William  Rivel  of 
Bukeby, "his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  estate  in  fee  simple  which  he  has 
by  feoffment  of  Robert  Oweyn  of  Pulteneye  in  all  the  lands,  rents, 
services  and  reversions  in  the  towns  of  Edmundscote  and  Milwirton 
co.  Warewik,  Lilleburne  co.  Norhampton,  Dadlyngton  and  Hvnkele 
co.  Leycestre  which  the  said  Robert  had  of  the  gift  of  the  said  John 
Charleton,  and  quitclaim  of  the  premises  ;  also  a  grant  with  like 
warranty  to  the  said  John  Rivel  and  his  heirs  of  all  rents  and  services 
in  the  said  towns  which  they  the  said  John  Charleton  and  Thomas 
or  either  of  them  now  has,  and  of  the  reversion  of  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  in  the  said  towns  of  Edmundiscote,  Milwirton  and  Lillebourne 
now  held  in  dower  by  Joan  who  was  wife  of  James  Spigurnel  by 
endowment  of  her  said  husband  with  reversion  to  them.  Witnesses  : 
John  Wroth  the  younger,  Robert  de  Pulteneye,  Thomas  Twe  of 
Welton,  William  Vavasour  of  Wykelee.  Dated  12  August  48 
Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  de  Charleton,  21 
November. 

WTriting  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Stow  of  Newcastle  upon 
Tyne,  granting  with  warranty  to  John  de  Bernardcastell  clerk,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  40s.  to  be  taken  at  Martinmas  and 
Whitsuntide  by  even  portions  of  all  her  lands  and  tenements  in  the 
town  of  Gatisheved,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Dated  London, 
the  morrow  of  All  Souls  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   21   November. 

Membrane  8d. 

Indenture  made  at  London,  15  July  48  Edward  111,  between 
Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne,  Sir  Aubrey  de  Veer,  Sir  Arnald  Savage, 
Sir  Bernard  Brocas,  Sir  John  Pekbrugge  and  Margaret  Ins  wife,  Robert 
Belknap,  John  Colpeper  and  Roger  <!<•  Asshebournham  of  the  one 
part  and  John  Revell  son  of  William  Revel!  of  the  other  part, 
witnessing  that  whereas  the  said  John  Revell  has  by  deed  enrolled 
made  a  grant,  confirmation  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  the  firs! 
parties,  in  their  possession  being,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manors 

of    Penshurst,    xenesfeld,    Northpark    and    Osprenge,    a    messue 

oik;  carucate  and  200  acres  of  land,  loo  acres  of  meadow .  300  acres  of 

pasture  and  300  acres  of  w 1   m   Penshurst,  Tonebrugge.   Leghe, 

Bytteberugh,  Speldhurst,  Chydyngstone  and  the  manor  ol  Southalle 
in  Wollewyche,  the  advowe 1    Penshursl  chapel,  one  acre  of  wood 

in  Eselyng  and  (lie  advowson  of  the  church  in  knit  and  BsSOZ,  of  the 


108  CALENDAR    OF   CLONK    ROLLS. 


Membrane   tid — cont. 

manor  of  Popeler,  three  messuages,  four  tofts,  two  water  mills  called 
'  Crachemilles,'  one  fulling  mill,  109  acres  of  land,  220  acres  of  pasture, 
!»/.  3s.  4d.  of  nut  in  Stebynghethe,  Esthamme,  Ntratforde,  Kdelmeton, 
Bakeneye,  Brambele  and  Eldeford  with  all  lands,  rents  and  lordships 
in  Estsmethefeld  by  the  Tower  of  London  in  Middlesex,  the  manors 
of  Ditton  Camoys,  Nwafham  Priour  and  Chevelee,  three  messuages, 
I'lo  acres  of  pasture  and  a  mill  in  Ditton  Camoys,  Nwafham  Priour, 
Chevelee  and  Asshelee  and  the  advowsons  of  Chevelee  church  and 
the  chapels  of  Nwafham  Priour  and  Ditton  Camoys  in  Cambridgeshire, 
the  manor  of  Wytheresfeld  with  appurtenances  in  Horset  and  Haver- 
hull  and  the  advowson  of  Wytheresfeld  church  in  Suffolk,  and  all 
other  the  manors,  lands,  rents,  mills,  woods,  meadows,  pastures, 
waters,  fisheries,  services,  liberties,  lordships,*  customs,  reversions, 
knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches  and  chapels  etc.  in  the  said 
counties  which  were  ever  of  Nir  John  de  Pulteneye  or  Nir  William 
his  son  and  heir,  the  inn  called  Coideherbergh,  all  lands,  rents  and 
lordships  upon  the  '  Haywarf,'  the  said  '  wharf  '  and  all  other  lands, 
rents,  services  and  lordships  in  the  parish  of  All  Hallows  the  Great 
with  the  reversions  in  the  city  of  London,  in  demesne  and  in  reversion, 
nevertheless  the  said  first  parties  will  and  grant  to  the  said  John  Revell 
that  in  case  they,  their  heirs  or  any  of  them  or  their  assigns  shall 
bring  writ  of  warranty  of  charter  against  him  or  his  heirs,  or  writ  of 
covenant  to  deraign  the  warranty  in  order  to  obtain  the  value  thereof 
by  reason  of  any  action  or  plaint  against  the  said  first  parties,  their 
heirs  or  assigns  or  any  of  them,  or  by  reason  of  any  entry  or  lawful 
seisin  of  the  premises  which  may  be  made  upon  them  or  any  of  them 
by  any  person  other  than  the  said  John  Revell  or  his  heirs,  or  they 
shall  vouch  the  said  John  Revell  or  his  heirs  to  warranty  upon  any 
writ  against  them  brought  by  any  other  person,  the  said  John  Revel 
or  his  heirs  shall  not  be  bound  to  warrant  them  but  shall  be  thereof 
discharged,  provided  always  that  in  case  such  entry,  action  or  plaint 
to  recover  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof  be  made  by  the  said  John 
Revell  or  his  heirs,  he  and  they  shall  be  so  bound  to  the  said  first  parties, 
their  heirs  and  assigns  and  to  all  who  in  time  to  come  shall  have  their 
estate  in  parcel  of  the  premises  or  in  all,  so  as  to  be  by  the  said 
covenant  of  warranty  debarred  from  every  claim,  right,  action  and 
demand  in  all  the  premises,  the  other  articles  remaining  in  force,  to 
wit  that  they  shall  never  be  grieved  by  warranty  at  the  suit  of  a 
stranger,  but  that  at  their  own  suit  and  deed  the  warranty  shall  be 
in  force.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  by  the  said  Nicholas,  John 
Pekbrugge  and  Roger  23  October,  by  the  said  Arnald  and  Robert 
24  October,  and  by  the  said  Bernard  27  October. 

Indenture  made  at  London,  15  July  48  Edward  III,  between 
Nir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne,  Nir  Aubrey  de  Veer,  Sir  Arnald  Savage, 
Sir  Bernard  Brocas,  Sir  John  Pekbrugge  and  Margaret  his  wife, 
Robert  Belknap,  John  Colpeper  and  Roger  de  Asshebournham  of  the 
one  part  and  Thomas  de  Charleton  son  of  John  de  Charleton  of  the 
other  part,  witnessing  that  whereas  the  said  Thomas  has  by  deed 
enrolled  made  a  grant,  confirmation  and  quitclaim  to  the  first 
parties,  in  their  possession  being,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manors  of  Penshurst  etc.  (as  in  the  last). 


4S    EDWARD    HI.  10!) 


1374.  Membrane  id. 

with  clause  of  warranty,  nevertheless   the  said  first  parties  will  and 
grant  to  the  said  Thomas  etc.   (aa  above).     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  by  the  said  Nicholas,  John 
Pekbrugge  and  Roger  23  October,  by  the  said  Arnald  and  Robert 
"_' I  October,  and  by  the  said  Bernard  27  October. 

Indenture  made  at  London,  15  July  48  Edward  III,  between 
Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne,  Sir  Aubrey  de  Veer,  Sir  Arnald  Savage, 
Sir  John  Pekebrugge  and  Margaret  his  wife,  Robert  Belknap,  John 
Colpeper  and  Roger  de  Asshebournham  of  the  one  part  and  Robert 
Owayn  of  Pulteneye  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  that  whereas  the 
said  Robert  Owayn  has  by  deed  enrolled  made  a  grant,  confirmation 
and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  the  first  parties,  in  their  possession 
being,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Penshurst  etc. 
(as  above),  nevertheless  the  said  first  parties  will  and  grant  to  the 
said  Robert  Owayn  etc.  (as  above).     French. 

Membrane  Gd. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  last  indenture,  by  the  said 
Nicholas,  John  Pekbrugge  and  Roger  23  October,  by  the  said  Arnald 
and  Robert  24  October,  and  by  the  said  Bernard  27  October. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Charleton,  son  of  John  de  Charleton,  being  a 
grant  to  Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne.  Sir  Aubrey  de  Veer,  Sir  Arnald 
Savage.  Sir  Bernard  Brokas,  Sir  John  Pekbrugge  and  Margaret  his 
wife,  John  Colpeper,  Robert  Belknap  and  Roger  de  Asshebournham 
of  the  manors  of  Penshurst  etc.  (as  above),  in  their  possession  being, 
confirming  their  estate  therein,  and  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  of  the 
premises  to  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Re'vnald 
de  Cobham,  Sir  Richard  de  Totesham,  Sir  John  Seintcler,  Sir  William 
deCobham  knights.  Sir  William  EareweU  parson  of  Penshurst,  William 
Strete  the  king's  '  botiler,'  John  Chydycroft,  James  de  Pekham,  Simon 
de  Burgh.     Dated  Penshurst,   10  July  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4   November. 


*n* 


Writing  of  William  atte  Wodeton.  son  and  heir  of  Bartholomew 
atte  Wodeton  of  Acton,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John 
Holmes  of  Acton  and  Isabel  Ins  wile  ami  to  the  said  John's  heirs  of 
fcWO  messuages  with  appurtenances  in  Acton  which  the  said  John 
and  Isabel  hold  for  a  term  of  years  by  demise  of  the  said  William. 
Witnesses:  Richard  de  Eston,  Thomas  Fightere,  William  Afordon, 
Richard  Clerk  of  Acton.  Robert  atte  Hangre.  Dated  \.  ton.  Thursday 
after   Michaelmas  48    Edward    III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  November. 

Indenture    made,  bet  ween    Cicely   Tin  bur\  ille   of   the   one    part    and 

Walter  Clopton  and  Edith  his  wife  of  the  other  part,  bcin  rani 

to   the      lid    Walter  and    Edith    for   their   lives  of  all   the   lands,   mills. 

courts,  rents  and  services  in  Shepton  Beauchamp  Bometime  held  by 
Valentine  atte  Forde,  without  rendering  aught  to  the  said  Cicely  and 
to  her  heirs  ;   and  a  quitclaim  to  the  Baid  Walter  and  hi-  hen-  of  all 


110  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1374.  Membrane    Od — cont. 

the  lands  by  him  now  held  in  Stokelynch.      Dated  London,  1  December 
18    Edward  III.     French. 

M>  mora nd am  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Cicely  and  Walter, 
G  December. 

Membrane  5d. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40s.  to  be  taken  of  all 
her  lands  in  the  town  of  Gatisheved  granted  by  Isabel  who  was  wife 
of  John  de  Stow  of  Newcastle  upon  T}me  to  John  de  Bernardcastelle 
clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Isabel  or  her 
heirs  shall  pay  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  61.  13s.  4d. 
Dated  London,  7  November  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John,  20  November. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Hoo  knight,  being  a  grant  to  Edmund  de 
Walsyngham,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  rents  and  services  of  the 
tenants  of  the  said  Thomas  in  the  towns  in  (sic)  Great  Everisdon 
and  Little  Everisdon,  a  release  of  all  manner  of  actions,  and  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  the  said  Edmund,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all 
right  in  the  manor  of  Everisdon  and  the  said  towns,  and  in  the  towns 
of  Berton,  Gransete,  Kyngeston  and  Wynpole  and  all  other  lands  etc. 
in  those  towrns  now  held  by  the  said  Edmund  by  gift  and  feoffment 
of  him  the  said  Thomas  or  Robert  his  son  or  by  any  title  by  reason  of 
Isabel  his  wife,  with  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  ways,  paths, 
rents,  villeins  and  all  that  goes  with  them.  Witnesses  :  John 
Dengayn  knight,  Baldwin  de  Sancto  Georgio  knight,  William  Castell- 
acre,  William  Fithian,  William  Knesale.  Dated  Great  Everisdon, 
Monday  after  St.  Katherine  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  November. 

Writing  of  Robert  Ede,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Peter 
de  Bourne  and  Alice  his  wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands, 
woods,  meadows,  feedings  and  pastures  in  Westebroke  in  the  parish 
of  Warblyngton  which  they  hold  to  fee  farm  of  him  the  said  Robert. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  Haket,  Nicholas  Rous,  Geoffrey  Dene,  William 
Illovere,  John  de  Butterwyk.  Dated  Westminster,  Friday  after 
St.  Andrew  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  December. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Edmund  Rose,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  Bernes  citizen  of  London,  William  Mulsho  clerk, 
Edward  de  Cherdestoke  clerk,  John  de  Freton  clerk  and  Robert 
Brom  of  Warrewyk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  whole  manor  in 
Drayton  by  Abyndon  co.  Berkes  sometime  of  Gilbert  de  Ellesfeld, 
and  all  other  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.  in  the  said  town 
of  Drayton  Avhich  William  de  Greseleye  clerk,  John  de  Ploufeld  clerk 
and  John  Vyncent  of  London  lately  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  the 
said  Edmund  his  father.  Dated  Westminster,  Wednesday  the  eve  of 
St.  Andrew  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  December. 

Dec.  6.  Henry  de  Molyns  to  Walter  Clopton  and  Lawrence  Janyn.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  201.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Somerset. 


48   EDWARD   III.  m 


1374.  Membrane   5d — cont. 

Charter  of  Cicely  Turburville  lady  of  Hacche  Beauchamp  co.  Somer- 
set, giving  with  warranty  to  William  de  Broughton,  Richard  Firman 
chaplain  and  Richard  Bylyndon,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  her  lands 
with  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  wards,  marriages  and 
reversions  in  Wodemeresthorn  and  Xotfeld  co.  .Surrey.  Witnesses: 
Sir  Fulk  de  Bermyngham,  Sir  Edmund  de  la  Pole  knights,  Walter  de 
Clopton,  Peter  atte  Wode,  John  Oliver  the  younger.  Dated  Borstal] 
co.  Bukingham,  Sunday  after  St.  Martin  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  December. 

Charter  of  Cicely  Turburville,  giving  with  warranty  to  Fulk  de 
Bermyngham  knight,  Master  Thomas  Alston,  Valentine  atte  Ford 
clerk,  William  de  Broughton  and  Richard  Bilyngdon,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  her  manor  of  Murifeld  co.  Somerset.  Witnesses  :  Walter 
Clopton,  Nicholas  Bolour,  Thomas  Payn,  John  Crop',  William 
Capelond.     Dated  London,  5  December  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  December. 

Charter  of  Cicely  Turburville,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  Fulk  de 
Bermyngham  knight,  Master  Thomas  Alston,  Valentine  atte  Forde 
clerk,  William  de  Broughton  and  Richard  Bilyndon,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  all  her  lands  in  Sturmunstre  Mareschall  co.  Dorset,  with 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  reversions,*  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
escheats  etc.  Witnesses  :  Walter  Clopton,  Robert  Bere,  Robert 
James.     Dated  London,  5  December  48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Cicely  Turburville,  being  a  general  release  to  Valentine 
atte  Forde  clerk  of  all  actions,  plaints  and  demands,  real  and  personal, 
by  reason  of  debt,  account,  trespass,  covenant,  condition,  receipt, 
livery,     contract     or     other     matter     whatsoever.     Dated     London, 

4  December  48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Cicely  Turburville,  being  a  general  release  to  Richard 
de    Bilyndon    of    all    actions    etc.    (as    the    hist).     Dated    London. 

5  December  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writings,  8  December. 

Dec.  16.  To  all  and  singular  the  stewards  and  sheriffs  of  WVvsford,  Teperary 

Westminster,  and  Kilkenny  in  Ireland.  Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 
that  every  man  of  Ireland  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  willing 
to  come  to  the  city  <>i'  Waterford  with  wheat  and  other  victuals  for 
sale  may  freely  pass  thither  without  molestation  :  as  the  king  lias 
grantedto  the  mayor  and  citizens  of  Waterford  that  bo  it  may  be. 
[Foedera.] 

MSMBR  INS   \<l. 
Writing  of  .John    Revell.   son   of   William    Kevell.    being   a   grant   to 

Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne,  Sir  Aubrey  de  Veer.  Sir  Arnald  Savage, 
So  Bernard  Brokas,  sir  John  Pekbrugge  and  Margaret  his  wife,  John 
Colpeper,  Robert  Belknap  and  Roger  de  Asshebournham  d  the  manors 
of  Penshurst  etc.  (cm  above;   see  p.  107),  in  then-  |  ion  being, 


112 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1374. 


Membrane    M — cont. 


confirming  their  estate  therein,  and  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  of  the 
premises  to  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Reynald 
de  Cobham,  Sir  Richard  de  Totesham,  Sir  John  Seintcler,  Sir  William 
de  Cobham  knights,  Sir  William  Harewell  parson  of  Penshurst, 
William  Strete  the  king's  '  boteller,'  John  Chydecroft,  James  de 
Pekham,  Simon  de  Burgh.  Dated  Penshurst,  Tuesday  11  July 
48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  November. 

Writing  of  Gilbert  Talbot  knight  lord  of  Eccleswalle,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  John  Bromwych  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Credenhulle  with  all 
appurtenances  in  Herefordshire,  now  held  of  the  said  Gilbert's  heritage 
by  the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  Gilbert, 
for  her  life  only  with  reversion  to  her  said  son.  Witnesses  :  Thomas 
Chaundos,  Richard  de  la  Bere,  John  Eylesford  knights,  Hugh  de 
Monynton,  John  de  Oldecastel,  John  ap  Res.  Baldwin  de  Bruge. 
Dated  Credenhulle,  16  April  43  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  November  this  year. 

Writing  of  Henry  de  Chadirton  bailiff  of  the  wapentake  of  Westederbi- 
shire  co.  Lancaster,  being  a  general  release  to  Robert  de  Faryngton 
clerk  of  all  manner  of  actions  real  and  personal.  Dated  Westminster, 
26  October  48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Henry  de  Chadirton  bailiff  etc.  (as  the  last),  being  a 
general  release  to  Robert  de  Plesyngton  of  all  manner  of  actions  real 
and  personal.     Dated  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings, 
21  November. 

Nov.  24.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 
Westminster,  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  them  to  cause  Robert  de 
Middelton  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors 
who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them,  would  main- 
pern  him  that  he  should  not  do  nor  procure  hurt  or  harm  to  William 
Kent  of  London  '  girdeler,'  and  if  they  have  arrested  the  said  Robert, 
order  to  set  him  free  without  delay  ;  as  that  order  was  made  at  the 
prayer  of  the  said  William,  averring  that  the  said  Robert  threatened 
him  in  life  and  limbs  ;  but  John  Neuport  of  Norffolk,  John  Broxburne 
of  London,  Thomas  Neville  and  John  Boynton  of  Yorkshire  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  that  he  shall  do  or  procure  no  bodily 
hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  William. 


Dec.  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Henry 

Westminster,  parson  of  Wynhale  by  Winchester,  by  mainprise  of  William  Froille 
of  the  county  of  Suthampton,  John  Wilman,  Robert  Somborne  and 
John  Torshawe  of  London  to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body  ;  as  his 
petition  shews  that  William  Boclond  is  impleading  him  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  for  an  alleged  trespass  against  the  said  Walter 
(sic),  and  that  by  writ  de  judicio  the  sheriff  is  ordered  to  take  his  body 
so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  a  set  day  therein  contained, 
although  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  said  Walter  and  to  stand  to  right 


48  EDWARD   III.  113 


1374.  Membrane  Ad — cont. 

in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  William  Froille  and  the  others  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  '101.  to  have  his  body 
hefore  the  said  justices  at  the  day  the  said  writ  de  judicio  is  returnable. 

Membrane  3d. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  statute  merchant,  hearing  date  London 

3  November  45  Edward  III,  whereby  Dame  Cicely  Turburville  is 
bound  to  Valentine  atte  Ford  clerk  in  400/.,  upon  condition  that 
whereas  the  said  Cicely  has  given  to  the  said  Valentine  and  to  his  heirs 
for  ever  all  the  lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions  which  she  had  in 
Dorton  under  Bernewode  co.  Bukingham,  and  likewise  all  the  vessels 
of  gold  and  silver  which  she  had  at  this  date,  and  whereas  the  said 
Valentine  has  in  time  past  been  receiver  of  her  moneys,  he,  his  heirs 
and  executors  shall  not  in  time  to  come  be  impleaded  nor  troubled 
by  the  said  Cicely,  her  heirs  or  executors  or  by  another  in  their  name 
by     writ     of     account,     trespass     or     otherwise.     Dated     London, 

4  December  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  G  December. 

Dec.  8.  To  William  de  Offord  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  preserve 

Westminster,  the  peace  in  Suffolk.  Order  by  mainprise  of  William  cle  Klmham 
knight  and  Ralph  de  Shelton  knight  of  Norffolk  to  stay  altogether 
the  taking  of  the  body  of  William  Assheman,  and  if  he  be  taken  to  set 
him  free,  although  lately  at  the  prayer  of  Walter  Duke,  averring  that 
the  said  William  Assheman  threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs,  the  king 
by  writ  ordered  the  said  justices  to  cause  William  Assheman  to  come 
before  them  and  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain 
to  be  by  the  justices  laid  upon  them,  would  mainpern  him  that  he 
should  not  do  or  procure  any  hurt  to  the  said  Walter  ;  as  the  said 
knights,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  that  ho 
shall  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  to  the  said  Walter. 

Dec.  16.  To   the   sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.     Order   by   mainprise   of  Thomas 

Westminster.  Alfide,  Thomas  Trygge,  John  Seymour  and  Robert  Alfide  of  London 
to  set  free  Alan  Deye  of  Waterbeche  from  prison  ;  as  the  king  by  w  i  it 
ordered  the  sheriff  to  attach  the  said  Alan  so  as  to  have  him  before  the 
king's  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next  to 
answer  as  well  the  king  as  the  abbess  of  Deneye  wherefore  he,  being 
lately  retained  in  her  service  at  Deneye  it  is  said,  withdrew  therefrom 
I H  fore  the  term  agreed  contrary  to  the  ordinance  ;  and  by  virtue  of  that 
writ  the  sheriff  has  taken  and  imprisoned  him,  wherefore  the  said  Alan 
has  petitioned  the  king  to  be  set  free  until  the  day  the  said  writ  i- 
returnable,  as  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  king  and  the  said  abbess  and 
to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others 
have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  him  before 
the  said  justices  at  that  day. 

Writing  of  John  Osbern  one  of  the  executors  of  Godfrey  de  la  Rokele, 
being  a  receipt  and  acquittance  to  Robert  Biouskham  clerk  for  601. 
in  part  payment  of  200  marks.  Dated  London  16  October 
48  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  Osbern  the  younger  and  Nicholas  Raunche,  exeoul 

of    Godfrey    de    la    Rokele,    being    a    receipt    and    acquittance    to 

<  it  B 


114  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137-1.  Membrane  3d — cont. 

Robert  de  Muskham  clerk  for  60?.,  in  part  payment  of  200  marks 
wherein  he  is  bound  to  them.  Dated  London,  the  feast  of  St.  Thomas 
the  Apostle  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  by  the 
said  John,  22  December. 

1375. 

Writing  of  Sir  John  de  Stodeye  citizen  of  London  and  Arnald 
(Arnauton)  de  Saumont  esquire  on  the  one  part,  being  proctors  of  the 
lord  of  Caupene,  as  appears  by  a  proxy  under  his  seal  with  the  mark 
of  Michael  de  Seint  Johan  notary  of  the  principality  of  Aquitaine,  and 
dated  Maleleone  17  April  1374,  and  John  Michel  burgess  and  merchant 
vintner  of  London  of  the  other  part,  reciting  a  bond  of  the  said  vintner 
dwelling  in  London  to  the  said  lord  and  to  the  bishop  of  Xaintez  and 
Piers  de  le  Crote  as  his  attorneys  and  factors  in  666?.  13s.  Ad.,  and  a 
recognisance  made  in  chancery,  that  the  said  proctors  have  asked  for 
payment,  that  the  said  vintner  has  shewn  that  in  several  instalments 
he  has  paid  the  greater  part  of  that  sum  to  the  said  Piers,  as  appears 
by  acquittances  and  indentures  under  the  hand  of  the  said  Piers,  so 
that  he  owes  but  64?.  as  it  is  agreed  between  them,  and  being  a  receipt 
and  acquittance  by  the  said  proctors  to  the  said  vintner,  in  presence 
of  the  notary  and  witnesses  named  below,  for  64?.  to  the  said  Arnald 
paid  in  full  of  the  whole  sum  aforesaid.  Dated  London,  the  lodging  of 
John  de  Stodeye,  19  December  1374,  48  Edward  III.  Witnesses  :  Sir 
John  de  Ludham,  Henry  Vanner,  P.  Merle,  Adam  Peuteney,  William 
Arnaut  of  Mont  Valour.  Attested  by  Piers  Mercer  clerk  notary  public 
of  the  said  principality.     French. 

Note  that  for  greater  security  the  said  proctors  have  hereto  affixed 
their  seals.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  de  Stodeye  and 
Arnald.  3  January. 

Jan.  10.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Knyght 
Westminster,  parson  of  Quynton,  by  mainprise  of  William  de  Molyns  knight  of 
Bukinghamshire,  William  de  Boughbrigge  clerk  of  Yorkshire,  Richard 
Broke  citizen  of  London  and  Thomas  Lyncoln  citizen  and  draper  of 
London  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body, 
bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  John  Louches  of  London  is  impleading  him  before  the 
said  justices  for  an  alleged  debt  of  100?.,  that  he  is  put  in  exigents 
in  the  husting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before 
the  said  justices  to  answer  thereupon,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer 
and  stand  to  right  in  all  things ;  and  the  said  William  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
100?.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents 
is  returnable  before  them. 

Memorandum  that  on  Saturday  the  feast  of  St.  Hilary  48  Edward  III 
William  Payn  of  Dorset  brought  John  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Moigne 
knight  tenant  in  chief  to  the  city  of  London,  and  the  same  day  in  the 
house  of  the  friars  preachers  London  delivered  him  to  the  chancellor 
and  treasurer,  who  seized  the  said  heir  into  the  king's  hands, 
discharging  the  said  William  of  his  wardship. 


48    EDWARD    III. 


US 


1375. 

Jan.  1. 

Eltham. 


Membrane  3d — cont. 


To  the  master,  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  hospital  or  house  of 
St.  Katherine  by  the  Tower  of  London.  Request  to  admit  Alice 
Munden*  to  the  said  house,  and  to  minister  to  her  for  life  Buch  main- 
tenance thereof  as  Margaret  Chelreye  deceased  had  at  the  request  of  the 
king  or  of  Queen  Philippa  in  his  right,  making  and  delivering  to  her 
letters  patent  under  the  common  seal  of  the  said  house  w  ith  mention  of 
all  that  she  shall  so  take,  for  which  the  king  will  be  bound  to  them,  and 
writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this  request  ;  as  the 
king  has  sent  the  said  Alice  to  them,  willing  of  his  favour  to  make 
provision  for  her  maintenance.  By  p.s.     [303(>7.| 

Vacated,  because  given  up  with  the  seal  unbroken  (in cera)  and  nothing 
done  thereupon. 

Membrane  2d. 

Jan.  2.  To  the  prior  and  convent  of  Luffeld.     Request  to  admit  Thomas 

Eltham.  Hayne  the  king's  Serjeant  to  that  house,  and  minister  to  him  for  life 
such  maintenance  as  John  Luffewyk  of  Stratford  deceased  had  at 
the  king's  request,  making  and  delivering  to  him  letters  patent  under 
the  common  seal  of  the  house  with  mention  of  all  that  he  shall  so 
take,  for  which  the  king  will  be  bound  to  them,  and  writing  again 
by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this  request  ;  as  the  king  has  sent 
the  said  Thomas  to  them,  willing  by  reason  of  his  good  service  to  make 
provision  for  his  maintenance.  By  p.s.     [30376.] 

Jan.  18.         To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Malmesbury.     Like  request,  by  reason 

Westminster,  of  his  good  service,  to  admit  William  Hervy  the  king's  serjeant,  and 

minister  to  him  for  life  such  maintenance  as  Walter  Wayte  deceased 

had  at  the  king's  request.  By  p.s.     [303!  U.  J 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Seyntmanyfeu,  son  and  heir  of  John  de 
Seyntmanyfeu,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Nicholas  dc  Carreu 
the  elder,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  lordships,  rents  and 
services  etc.  in  Cherleton  and  Tullewyk  by  Wantynge  co.  Berkes 
which  the  said  John  and  Joan  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  Thomas,  had 
by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de  Carreu  knight.  Dated  Cherleton, 
the  feast  of  St.  Thomas  the  Apostle  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
20  January. 

Charter  of  John  Cooke  of  Wolwych  and  Margaret  his  wife,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Reynold  Neuport  esquire  of  the  king's  ohamber,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  all  lands,  rents  and  services,  houses,  gardens, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  hedges,  ditches,  waters,  fisheries 
etc.  which  they  had  by  whatsoever  title  in  the  parishes  of  Leyghe, 
Tonbrugge  and  Peneshurst  co.  Kent.  Witnesses:  -John  Muskham, 
John  Carpenter,  Richard  Bfartyn,  Richard  atte  Welle,  Adam  Cheseman. 
Dated  la  Leyghe,  20  January  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  ;it  Westminster, 
22  January. 

Writing  of  John  Ryseburgh  vicar  of  Earewe  co.  Middlesex,  being  a 
quitclaim   with    warranty   to   Nicholas    Brembre  citizen  <»f   London 

*  In  tli«-  warrant   [French)  AJioeon  Munden,  and  there    aid  to  ] 
upon  the  ik-uth  <>f  Johane  \  eneour. 


116  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

and  Idonea  his  wife,  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Nicholas, 
of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Harewe  which  he 
the  said  John  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  son  of  William  de 
Roxheth,  and  the  said  Nicholas  and  Idonea  by  gift  and  feoffment  of 
William  late  archbishop  of  Canterbury  with  the  assent  of  his  chapter. 
Witnesses  :  William  de  Swanlond,  John  Charleton,  Thomas  de  Pynnore, 
William  atte  Merssh,  William  de  Yeddyng,  John  atte  Riddyng,  John 
Barnevylle.  Dated  20  June  48  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  January. 

Writing  of  John  de  Reydon  of  Stanewey,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John 
Coke  and  William  Pecok  of  London  and  John  Payn  citizen  and 
armourer  of  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  tenement  called 
the  Briggehous  in  the  town  of  Upmynstre  co.  Essex,  with  all  lands, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  hedges,  ditches,  reliefs,  wards,  marriages, 
escheats,  heriots  etc.  thereto  belonging  in  the  towns  and  parishes  of 
LTpmynstre  and  Haveryngge  atte  Boure.  Dated  London,  1  January 
48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  January. 

Jan.  22.         Reynold  Loue  citizen  of  London   to  John  de  Neville  of  Raby. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  295Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Membrane  Id. 

Writing  of  Ralph  de  Huntyngdon,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Master  Thomas  Baketon  clerk,  John  Cotton  of  Cantebrigge  and 
William  Baketon  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Trumpyngton  co.  Cantebrigge  sometime  of  William  Crocheman  knight, 
with  all  lands  therein  which  were  of  the  said  William  Crocheman,  a 
gift  and  release  with  like  warranty  of  the  reversion  of  all  lands,  rents 
and  services  therein  now  held  by  John  Edmund  and  Maud  his  wife 
in  dower  of  the  said  Maud,  and  quitclaim  with  like  warranty  of  the 
manors  of  Hampstede,  Fynchyngfeld,  Saumford,  Bumpstede,  Asshedon 
and  Radewynter  co.  Essex,  and  of  the  reversion  of  all  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  those  towns  now  held  in  dower  as  aforesaid,  all  some- 
time of  the  said  William  Crocheman.  Witnesses  :  Roger  Scales, 
Hugh  la  Zouche,  John  Burgh  knights,  Roger  Herlaston,  Henry  English, 
Thomas  Sewale,  Thomas  Torek  Dated  Cantebrigge,  Monday  before 
Christmas  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  January. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  100s.  to  be  taken  at 
Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  manor  of  Sauston 
co.  Caumbrigge  and  of  all  his  lands  there,  granted  by  writing  of  Ralph 
de  Huntyngdon  of  Sauston  to  Master  Thomas  Baketon  clerk  and  John 
Cotton  of  Caumbrigge,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  whensoever  John  Wynse- 
lowe  citizen  of  London  and  Mary  his  wife  shall  by  recovery,  entry  or 
otherwise  in  right  of  the  said  Mary  come  into  possession  of  any  other  of 
the  lands,  rents,  services  or  other  possessions  in  Caumbriggeshire  and 
Essex  which  were  of  Sir  William  Crocheman  knight  her  ancestor 
not  contained  in  a  fine  levied  between  the  said  Ralph  and  Elizabeth 
his  wife  and  the  said  Thomas,  John  [Cotton]  and  William  Baketon 


48    EDWARD    III.  117 


1375.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

clerk,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Ralph  and  Elizabeth  during  her 
life,  or  the  said  Elizabeth's  heirs  after  her  death,  shall  upon  one  month's 
warning  be  ready  by  line  at  the  costs  of  the  said  John  Wynselowe  to 
make  a  grant  and  release  without  warranty  to  the  said  John 
Wynselowe  and  Mary  or  to  others  by  their  appointment  ;  and 
covenant  that  the  deed  of  annuity  shall  thereupon  be  delivered  again 
to  the  said  Ralph  and  Elizabeth.  Dated  Cantebrigge,  Saturday  after 
St.  Thomas  the  Apostle  48  Edward  111.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Th[omas]  and  John, 
23  January. 

Indenture  witnessing  that  whereas  Ralph  de  Huntyngdon  has 
quitclaimed  with  warranty  to  Master  Thomas  Baketon  clerk,  John 
Cotton  of  Cantebrigge  and  William  Baketon  clerk,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  the  manor  of  Trumpyngton  and  all  lands  therein  sometime 
of  William  Crocheman  knight,  has  given  and  released  with  like 
warranty  the  reversion  of  all  lands  etc.  there  now  held  by  John  Edmund 
and  Maud  his  wife  in  dower,  and  has  quitclaimed  with  like  warranty 
the  manors  of  Hampstede,  Fynchyngfeld,  Samford,  Bumpstede, 
Asshedon  and  Radewynter,  with  the  reversion  of  all  lands  etc.  therein 
now  held  in  dower  as  aforesaid,  the  said  Thomas,  John  [Cotton]  and 
William  [Baketon]  covenant  that  by  reason  of  the  word  dedi  or  the 
w  arranty  contained  in  the  deed  above  recited  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs 
shall  not  be  impeached  nor  bound  to  make  up  value,  but  the  same 
shall  only  be  a  bar  against  the  said  Ralph  and  his  heirs  for  ever. 
Witnesses  :  Roger  de  Scales,  Hugh  la  Zouche,  John  Borugh  knights, 
Roger  Harleston,  Henry  English,  Thomas  Sewale,  Thomas  Torell. 
Dated  Cantebrigge,  Monday  before  Christmas  48  Edward  HI.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Thomas,  John  Cotton 
and  William  Baketon,  23  January. 

Charter  of  Alice  la  Achatour,  daughter  of  John  la  Achatour  the 
elder  of  Redyng,  giving  with  warranty  to  Richard  Hornele,  Richard 
Warmyngton  and  Roger  Grene  chaplains,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the 
whole  tenement  with  houses  thereupon  built  sometime  of  her  said 
father  in  Thamiscstrete  in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael  Crokedlanc 
London,  situate  between  a  tenement  sometime  of  Walter  Gubbe  on 
the  east  and  a  tenement  sometime  of  Amice  Home  on  the  west; 
also  41.  of  rent  issuing  from  a  tenement  lately  held  by  Ralph 
Doxenford  in  the  parish  of  St.  Clement  Candelwykstrete  and 
from  a  tenement  sometime  of  her  said  father  in  Belleyetterslane 
in  the  parish  sometime  of  St.  Michael  within  Algate  London, 
the  736-.  4c/.  of  rent  of  the  said  tenement  and  houses  in  Thamisetrete 
lately  reserved  to  John  le  Achatour  her  brother,  and  all  other 
lands,  rents,  reversions  etc.  which  she  has  in  the  city  of  London  ; 
and  because  her  seal  is  to  many  unknown  she  has  procured  the  seal 
of  the  mayoralty  of  Bristol  to  be  hereto  appended.  Witnesses  : 
Walter  Sibile,  John  Ghircheman,  Ellis  Spelly,  Richard  Spioer,  Walter 
Frompton.     Dated  15  January  48  Edward  HI. 

Writing  of  Alice  le  Achatour.  daughter  <»f  John  le  Ichatoui  the 
elder  of  Redyng,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Simon  de 

Mordon  citizen  of  London  and  Alice  his  wile,  their  heirs  and 

the  whole  tenement  with  houses  thereupon  built  in  Thamisc*trctc,  1/.  of 


11.  CALENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

rent  issuing  from  tenements  in  the  parish  of  St.  Clement  Candelwyk- 
Btrete  and  in  Belleyettereslane,  the  73s.  4d.  of  rent  reserved  of  the 
premises  in  Thamysestrcte  (all  described  as  in  the  last),  and  all  other 
her  lands  etc.  in  the  city  of  London.  Seal  of  the  mayoralty  of 
Bristol  (a*  in  the  last).  Witnesses:  Ellis  Spelly,  Richard  Spicer, 
Walter  Frompton  of  Bristol.     Dated  8  January  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  at  Bristol,  Monday  the  feast  of  St.  Vincentius  before  Walter 
de  Frompton  mayor  of  Bristol,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  for  this  year. 


(  119  ) 


49  EDWAED  III. 


1375.  Membrane  47. 

Feb.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  York  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues  of 

Westminster,  that  county  to  pay  to  John  le  Wodeward  of  Raskelf  the  arrears  of  3d. 
a  day  since  20  February  in  the  25th  year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforward 
to  pay  him  that  daily  sum  every  year  for  life,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 
as  at  the  date  mentioned  for  his  good  service  and  for  that  his  eu-s 
were  put  out  by  certain  evildoers  in  the  forest  of  Galtres  at  the  time 
when  he  was  one  of  the  king's  foresters  there,  and  his  tongue  and 
fingers  were  by  them  cut  off  in  the  king's  service,  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  the  said  John  3d.  a  day  for  life  by  the  hands  of  the 
sheriff. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  22.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Norwich,  the  bailiffs  of 
Westminster.  Great  Jernemuth  and  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  that- 
port.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Michel  of  London,  to  suffer 
him  by  himself  or  his  attorney  in  the  river  of  the  said  city  and  in  the 
port  of  the  said  town  to  lade  in  ships  not  arrested  for  the  king's  service 
100  quarters  of  wheat  and  20  quarters  of  pease,  and  without  payment 
of  custom  or  subsidy  to  bring  the  same  to  the  city  of  London,  any 
proclamations,  ordinances  or  commands  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing ;  as  he  has  prayed  licence  so  to  do  as  well  for  his  own 
expenses  as  to  make  his  advantage  thereof,  and  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery  has  mainperned  under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  the  value 
thereof  that  the  same  shall  be  brought  to  the  city  of  London  and  not 
to  any  parts  beyond  the  sea. 

Membrane  46. 

Jan.  28.         To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir.     Order  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest 
Westminster,  of  Claryndon  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  Duyn,  who  is  dead. 

Feb.  3.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Edmund  Ovyngge,  who  is  dead. 

Feb.  1.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Fox,  who  is  dead. 

Feb.  4.  To  John  Sayville  eschcator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to   take   the 

Westminster,  fealty  of  Katherine  wife  of  William  de  Threlkeld  knight  and  of  William 
their  son  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  two  thirds  of  a  moiety 
of  the  manor  of  fives  by  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said 
knight's  death,  delivering  to  the  said  Katherine  and  William  the  son 
any  issues  thereof  taken  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  at  his  command  by  Roger  Lascels  late  escheator,  that  the  said 

knight  -it  Ins  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  eliiel'  in  his  demesne 

as  of  fee  nor  In  sen  ice,  but  by  grant  of  John  de  ( Jroffeton  made  with 

the  king's  licence  held  the  said  two  thirds  of  a  nioieU  jointly  with  his 

said  wife  and  their  said  son  m  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  10*.  to 
coinage  at  the  exchequer  of  Karliol. 


120  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  46 — cont. 

Feb.  8.  To  Oliver  de  Earnham  esoheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltesir.     Order 

Westminster,  to  take  of  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Estbury  tenant  in  chief 
an  oath  that  >1h>  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to 
assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled 
in  chancery. 

Membrane  45. 

Feb.  16.  To  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
t  minster,  of  the  Cinque  Ports  or  to  his  lieutenant  there,  and  to  all  and  singular 
the  mayors,  bailiffs  and  ministers  of  the  king  within  the  liberty  of 
the  said  ports.  Order  by  indentures  containing  the  description  and 
measure  thereof  and  the  colours  of  cloths,  if  any,  to  deliver  to  the 
merchants  of  Genoa  (Janua)  and  Florence  being  of  the  king's  friendship, 
and  to  other  merchants  the  king's  friends  or  to  their  attorneys,  all  their 
goods  and  merchandise  by  the  king's  subjects  lately  taken  at  sea 
in  certain  tarits  and  brought  within  the  said  liberty  in  whose  hands 
soever  they  shall  be,  namely  to  every  merchant  such  as  he  may  prove 
to  be  his,  certifying  in  chancery  the  parties  to  such  indentures. 

Membrane  44. 

Feb  13.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Be}Tnton  and  three  virgates  of  land  in  Wynterborne  Homanton  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Richard  Rous,  delivering  to 
Elizabeth  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Richard  at  his 
death  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Elizabeth  of  others 
than  the  king. 

Feb.  16.  To  John  Sergeant  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of 
Westminster.  Wales  adjacent.  Order  to  cause  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Richard 
Dansey  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  said  Thomas  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [30415.] 

To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex.      Like  order ;    as  Thomas 
son  and  heir  of  Richard  Dansey  has  proved  his  age  before  John  Sergeant. 

By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

Feb.  18.  To  Walter  Cifrewast  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  in  presence  of 
Westminster.  John  Meriet  son  and  heir  of  John  Meriet  knight  tenant  in  chief  or 
his  attorney,  and  of  John  Deakne  clerk  attorney  of  Maud  who  was 
wife  of  the  said  John  Meriet,  to  assign  to  the  said  Maud  dower  of  her 
said  husband's  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery. 

Membrane  43. 

Feb.  6.  To  John  de  Sayville  escheator  in  Cumberland.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  Richard  son  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Kirkebride  tenant  in  chief  a 

third  part  of  Braythwayt  close  in  the  forest  of  Ingelwode  taken  into 

the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Robert  Parvyng  ; 


49    EDWAIil)    III. 


121 


1375. 


Membrane  43 — cant. 


as  lately  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command 
by  William  de  Nessefeld  late  eecheator,  that  the  said  Laabel  held  that 
third  part  in  dower  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Richard  the  son  in  chief 
by  fealty  and  by  the  Service  of  rendering  at  the  exchequer  of  Karliol 
35s.  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  ; 
and  on  14  May  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign  the  age  of  the  said 
Richard  was  proved,  and  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and 
commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

Feb.  14.  To   the  sheriff  of   Bedford   and    Bukingham    for   the    time    being. 

Westminster.  Order  of  the  issues  of  those  counties  to  pay  to  William  de  Risceby 
the  arrears  of  12c/.  a  day,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  daily 
sum  for  life,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  5  November  in  the  33rd 
year  of  bis  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said 
William  for  good  service  12d.  a  day  for  life  to  be  taken  by  the  hands 
of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  4.  To  John  Sayvylle  cscbeator  in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland,  Cum- 

Westminster.  berland  and  Westmorland.  Order  to  cause  Robert  son  of  Robert 
son  of  Robert  de  Ogle,  cousin  and  heir  of  Robert  de  Ogle  tenant  in 
chief,  to  have  seisin  as  well  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Robert  his  grand- 
father as  of  those  which  Isabel  his  grandmother,  wife  of  the  said 
Robert  the  grandfather,  held  in  fee  tail,  in  dower  or  for  life  of  his  heritage, 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  their  death  ;  as  the  said  Robert  the 
grandson  proved  his  age  before  William  de  la  Vale  late  escheatoi  in 
Northumberland,  and  the  king  has  taken    his  homage  and    fealty. 

By  p.s.  [3040(3.] 


Feb.  17.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London.  Order 
Westminster,  to  appoint  a  tower  with  chambers  and  houses  needful  for  the  safe 
abode  and  sure  custody  of  the  count  de  Sancto  Paulo  of  France, 
the  prisoner  of  William  de  Latymere  the  chamberlain,  and  to 
receive  the  said  prisoner  into  his  custody  and  safe  keep  him  by 
advice  of  the  said  William. 
[Foedera.] 

Membrane  42. 

Feb.  24.  To  Jolin  de  Hambury  escheatoi  in  Worcestershire.  Older  to 
Westminster,  deliver  to  Ralph  de  Stafford  and  Maud  his  wife,  to  her  purparty.  the 
manor  of  Grafton  with  appurtenances  ;  as  she  proved  her  aire  before 
John  de  Perton  late  cscbeator  in  Staffordshire,  and  the  hang  has  taken 
the  said  Ralph's  fealty,  and  of  the  lands  which  were  of  .John  I  la-tang 
tenant  in  chief,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  the  said  Maud  and  Joan  his  daughters  and  hen-, 
tin;   king   ha  Died    to    the    said    Ralph    and    Maud    the    manor    .'t 

Grafton  co.   Worcester   held   in   chief,    which    is  extended    at    Is/, 
a  year,  the  rents,  services  and  customs  of  all  tenants  in  the  town-  of 
Lem\  ntoii  and  Bulk  at  56/.,  all  rents,  sen  ices  and  custom-  of  tenant- 
in  lierdewyk.  namely  of  .John  Qrene  id.,  of  William   Everdon  4d.,ot 

Robert    Budul   0'/..  of   Robeil    KmeleVe  2'/.,  of   William    l!u.-alc  5*.,  of 

Richard  Sale  9*.  Id.,  of  John  Gerard  6*.,  of  William  Lutte  12>.  \<l.. 

of  John  Webbe  111.  dd.  for  a  messuage  and  the  moiety  of  one  virgate 


I-  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1375,  Membrane  42 — cont. 

of  land  which  he  holds  in  common  of  the  said  heirs  by  the  service  of 
12s.  Id.,  and  the  site  of  the  manor  of  Lemynton  Hastang  and  Hulle 
co.  Warrewyk  with  demesne  lands,  meadows,  pastures  etc.  held  of 
others  than  the  king,  a  fourth  part  of  the  site  of  the  outer  court  thereof 
excepted  on  the  south  side  of  the  gate,  to  be  divided  by  metes  and 
bounds  for  holding  the  court  of  the  tenants  there,  and  except  100 
acres  of  the  said  demesne  lands  lying  in  divers  parcels,  namely  7  acres 
upon  '  Oakeforlong,'  24  acres  upon  '  Smalwelleforlong,'  1\  acres 
upon  '  Sevenacresforlong,'  10  acres  upon  '  Thurlforlong,'  8  acres  upon 
1  Asewelleforlong  '  on  the  east  side,  4|  acres  upon  '  Nynehedes  '  called 
'  Abovefulputforlong,'  19  acres  upon  '  Fulputforlong,'  6  acres  upon 
1  Crosforlong,'  and  15  acres  upon  the  '  forlong  '  between  Hulle  and 
Lemynton  on  the  east  side  ;  but  the  residue  of  the  said  John's  manors 
and  lands  for  the  purparty  of  the  said  Joan,  being  within  age  and  in 
the  king's  wardship,  the  king  has  thought  fit  to  keep  in  his  hand 
until  her  lawful  age,  namely  the  manor  of  Upton  Waryn  co.  Worcester 
held  in  chief  and  extended  at  \2l.  6s.  8\d.  a  year,  the  manor  of 
Chebbeseye  co.  Stafford  at  24:1.  lis.  llfd.,  a  fourth  part  of  the  site  of 
the  outer  court  of  the  said  manor  of  Lemynton  to  be  divided  as 
aforesaid,  100  acres  of  the  demesne  lands  lying  in  divers  parcels  within 
that  manor  as  above  described  at  41s.  8d.,  all  lands,  rents  and 
reversions  of  tenants  whatsoever  as  well  for  life  or  years  as  at  will  in 
Bradewelle  with  all  neifs,  services,  rents,  customs  and  works,  a 
windmill  called  '  Bradewelmylne '  and  a  meadow  called  the 
'  Lordesmor  '  in  the  said  town  of  Lemynton  extended  at  381.  lis.  9d. 
a  year,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  reversions  of  tenants  whatsoever  for 
life  or  years  or  at  will  with  all  manner  of  services,  rents,  customs 
and  works  of  the  following  tenants  in  Herdewyk  co.  Warrewyk, 
namely  of  John  Webbe  for  a  messuage  3s.,  of  Emma  Deye  for  a  messuage 
18d.,  of  John  Gerard  for  a  messuage  3s.,  of  Edmund  Herdewyk  2s.  2d., 
of  William  Allesley  2d.,  of  John  Fraunceis  \2d.,  and  all  rents  and 
services  in  Whitnassh,  namely  of  John  Botiller  2s.,  of  John  Webbe 
tenant  in  common  of  a  messuage  and  the  moiety  of  one  virgate  of  land 
in  the  town  of  Herdewyk  of  the  said  heirs  by  the  service  of  12s.  Id. 
a  year  4d.,  so  that  the  said  Ralph  and  Maud  and  the  said  Joan,  their 
heirs  and  tenants,  shall  have  common  together  at  seasonable  times 
in  all  lands,  meadows  and  wastes  of  the  manor  of  Lemynton,  the 
several  lands,  meadows  and  tenements  thereof  excepted. 

To  Thomas  Walssh  escheator  in  Warwickshire.  Order  to  deliver 
to  the  said  Ralph  and  Maud  to  her  purparty  of  the  lands  of  John 
Hastang  tenant  in  chief  all  rents,  services  and  customs  of  all  tenants 
of  the  town  of  Lemynton  and  Hulle  extended  at  56/.  a  year,  all  rents, 
services  and  customs  of  tenants  in  Herdewyk,  namely  of  John  Grene 
4td.,  of  William  Everdon  4c/.,  of  Robert  Budul  6d.,  of  Robert  Emeleye 
2d.,  of  William  Rusale  5s.,  of  Richard  Sale  9s.  Id.,  of  John  Gerard  5s.. 
of  William  Lutte  12s.  Id.,  of  John  Webbe  lis.  9d.  for  a  messuage 
and  the  moiety  of  one  virgate  of  land  by  him  held  in  common  of  the 
said  heirs  by  the  service  of  12s.  Id.,  and  the  site  of  the  manor  of 
Lemynton  Hastang  etc.  (with  exceptions)  as  above  (but  australi  is 
read  instead  of  orientali  which  is  written  over  an  erasure  in  the  last  clause 
of  their  purparty  above) ;  as  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said 
Ralph,  and  has  assigned  the  premises  to  them. 


49    EDWARD    III  L23 


1375.  Membrane  42 — cont. 

Feb.  24.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  bia 

Westminstor.  lieutenant  there.  Order  to  deliver  to  William  de  Latymer  the  cham- 
berlain, or  to  his  special  deputies  in  this  behalf,  a  tower  in  the  said 
Tower  with  chambers,  keys  etc.  fit  and  honourable  for  the  dwelling 
of  the  count  de  Sancto  Paulo  his  prisoner,  to  deliver  the  said  count 
therein  to  the  said  William  or  his  deputies  aforesaid  to  be  kept  in  safe 
custody  with  the  said  William's  own  people,  so  that  the  said  constable 
and  lieutenant  be  not  charged  with  the  custody  of  him. 
[Fcedera.] 

March  8.  To  all  and  singular  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and 
Westminster,  other  the  king's  lieges  and  subjects  within  liberties  and  without  to 
whom  etc.  Order  at  their  peril,  as  they  desire  the  king's  honour 
and  advantage,  to  arrest  John  Marchaunt  of  Hundesdon  co.  Hertford 
and  Simon  Crosse  of  Kynggesbury  co.  Somerset  wherever  found,  and 
to  keep  them  safe  under  arrest  until  they  shall  find  security,  for  which 
the  sheriffs  etc.  will  answer,  that  they  will  depart  to  Edward  le 
Despenser  and  sail  with  him  on  the  king's  service,  certifying  speedily 
in  chancery  the  security  so  taken  and  all  their  action  in  the  matter  ; 
as  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  John  and  Simon,  who  were  lately 
retained  with  the  said  Edward  to  sail  with  him  over  sea  on  the  king's 
service,  and  received  certain  sums  of  the  king's  money  to  purvey 
them  horses  and  armour,  are  now  withdrawing  and  absenting  them- 
selves so  that  they  may  not  be  found,  not  purposing  nor  making  ready 
to  sail  as  aforesaid. 

March  6.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  deliver  to  Edmund 
Westminster,  son  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  le  Ku  of  Bradewell  and  to  Joan  his 
wife  two  messuages,  one  mill,  140  acres  of  land,  4  acres  of  meadow 
and  60  acres  of  marsh  in  Bradewell  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  William  Strangman,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken, 
but  not  to  meddle  further  with  other  lands  held  of  others  than  the 
king  and  likewise  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  delivering 
up  any  issues  of  those  taken;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service, 
but  by  gift  of  John  de  Doncastre  clerk  and  John  Donnyng  of  Bradewell 
the  younger,  made  with  the  king's  licence,  held  the  premises  in  Brade- 
well for  his  life  in  chief  by  knight  service  with  remainder  to  the  said 
Edmund  and  Joan  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and 
held  divers  other  lands  likewise  for  his  life  of  others  than  the  king  ; 
and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and  fealtv  of  the  said  Edmund. 

By  p.s.  [30412.  | 

March  7.  To  Roger  atte  Lee  escheator  in  Salop  and  the  march  of  Wales 
Westminster,  adjacent.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de 
Cherletou  of  Powys  tenant  in  chief  the  eighth  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Dodeeton  held  by  Henry  de  Wynnesbury  and  extended  at 
26s.  8d.  a  year,  and  the  eighth  pari  of  one  blight's  fee  in  the  Bame 
town  held  by  Walter  de  Dodeeton  and  extended  at  26».  8d.  ;   as  the 

king  has  assigned   to  her  those  parte  as  her  doner  of  the  knights'  fees 

and  parts  of  fees  of  her . -ud  husband  taken  mto  the  king's  hand  by 

his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonago  of  his  heir. 


1_M  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSti    ROLLS. 


1375,  Membrane  42 — cont. 

To  the  same.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Joan  the 
advowson  of  the  prebend  sometime  of  David  in  the  collegiate  church 
of  Pontesbury  ;  as  the  king  has  assigned  the  same  to  her  as  her  dower 
of  the  advowsons  of  her  said  husband. 

Membrane  41. 

March  3.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  two 
carucates  of  land  in  Bakamton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Henry  de  Moigne  knight,  delivering  to  William  his  son  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said  Henry  held  the  premises  for  life 
with  remainder  to  the  said  William  for  life,  and  that  the  same  are 
held  of  others  than  the  king. 

March  10.       To  Oliver  de   Harnham  escheator  in   the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Westminster.  Order  to  take  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  William  Wanstede  tenant  in 

chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and 

to  assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's 

hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

March  15.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cease  every  excuse,  and  cause 
Westminster.  John  Graigose  to  be  again  taken  wherever  found  in  their  bailiwick, 
and  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  in  Neugate  gaol  until  further  order  ; 
as  lately  upon  information  received  that  the  said  John  was  taken  and 
there  imprisoned  upon  suspicion  of  certain  felonies  and  evil  doings, 
and  upon  petition  made  for  his  deliverance,  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriffs  to  make  inquisition  touching  his  behaviour,  and  if  he  should 
thereby  be  found  not  suspect  and  not  guilty  to  set  him  free  by  main- 
prise for  his  good  behaviour  or  otherwise  according  to  the  law  and 
custom  of  England,  by  virtue  whereof  he  has  been  let  go  as  the  king 
has  learned  ;  and  now  William  de  Neville  admiral  of  the  king's  fleet 
to  the  northward  has  signified  to  the  king  that  the  said  John  was  at 
his  command  taken  for  certain  reasonable  causes  on  the  king's 
behalf,  and  was  delivered  to  the  custody  of  the  sheriffs  until  command 
should  by  the  king  or  the  said  admiral  be  given  for  his  deliverance, 
wherefore  he  ought  not  to  be  set  free  as  aforesaid.  By  C. 

March  21.  To  Thomas  Walssh  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 
Westminster.  Order  to  take  a  simple  seisin  within  the  gates  of  Kenilleworth  priory, 
now  void  by  the  death  of  brother  Henry  de  Bradeweye  the  last  prior, 
and  not  to  meddle  by  reason  of  this  vacancy  with  the  priory,  the 
manors,  granges  or  other  the  goods  and  property  whatsoever  thereto 
belonging,  but  immediately  to  withdraw  without  taking  or  carrying 
aught  away,  delivering  to  the  subprior  and  convent  any  issues  thereof 
taken,  for  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  escheator  be  thereof  discharged 
toward  him,  saving  to  the  king  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of 
churches  during  this  vacancy  ;  as  in  consideration  of  the  manifold 
hurt  heretofore  sustained  by  the  prior  and  convent  by  reason  of  the 
late  king  and  himself  frequently  resorting  thither,  and  their  grievous 
cost  thereby,  and  willing  to  make  provision  for  their  peace,  on 
10  March  in  the  4th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent 
granted  to  brother  Thomas  de  Warmynton  then  prior  and  to  the 


49    EDWARD    III.  125 


1375.  Membrane  41 — cont. 

convent  that  at  every  vacancy  of  the  priory  by  death,  cession, 
resignation  or  otherwise  the  subprior  and  convent  and  their  Bncoeesors 
should  have  the  keeping  of  the  priory  and  all  temporalities  thereof 
with  all  goods  and  property  thereto  belonging  as  fully  as  ever  the 
prior  had  when  the  see  was  filled,  so  that  the  Bubprior  and  convent 
should  have  free  administration  of  the  said  temporalities,  goods  and 
property,  disposing  and  ordering  the  same  as  they  should  see  b< 
saving  to  the  king  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  churches  during 
such  vacancy,  rendering  to  the  king  for  every  vacancy  if  enduring 
one  whole  year  117/.  2s.  8d.,  at  which  sum  the  temporalities  are 
extended  as  the  king  is  assured  by  certificate  of  the  treasurer  and  the 
barons  of  the  exchequer  sent  into  the  wardrobe  at  his  command,  and 
if  for  a  less  time  or  for  a  greater  in  proportion,  so  that  no  sheriff, 
escheator,  bailiff,  or  minister  of  the  king  should  by  reason  of  a 
vacancy  meddle  in  the  keeping  of  the  priory,  the  manors,  granges, 
property  or  goods  whatsoever  thereto  belonging,  except  that  in  the 
beginning  of  every  vacancy  the  escheator  or  other  minister  of  the  king 
should  in  name  of  the  king's  lordship  take  a  simple  seisin  within  the 
gates  of  the  priory  and  immediately  depart  without  taking  or  carrying 
aught  away,  so  that  he  should  not  make  his  abode  there  for  more 
than  one  day,  or  leave  any  substitute  in  his  room.  Proviso  that  the 
escheator  shall  during  this  vacancy  keep  in  the  king's  hand  any  lands 
or  rents  by  the  priory  acquired  in  fee  after  the  date  aforesaid,  and 
any  which  have  since  that  date  come  to  the  priors'  hands  by  escheat 
or  otherwise,  answering  at  the  exchequer  for  the  issues  thereof  arising. 

To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.     Order  not  to 
meddle  with  the  said  priory,  the  manors  etc.  as  above. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  Karnels  escheator  in  Roteland. 

Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire. 

March  20.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton.  Order, 
Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  Arnald  Benelond  Flemmyng,  master  and 
merchant  of  a  ship  called  'la  Maudeleyn'  of  Lescluse  in  Flanders,  if 
assured  that  900  quarters  of  wheat  therein  was  not  without  the 
king's  licence  taken  out  of  the  realm  nor  is  there  any  reasonable  cause 
for  forfeiting  the  same  to  the  king,  to  suffer  the  said  Arnald  and  the 
attorneys  of  the  merchants  who  may  prove  before  the  mayor  and 
bailiffs  that  they  are  owners  thereof  to  sell  the  same  to  any  who 
will  buy  it  for  a  reasonable  price,  and  to  receive  and  take  away  the 
money  thereof  arising,  so  that  by  advice  of  discreel  merchants  sum- 
moned for  the  purpose  the  said  Arnald  shall  be  by  the  vendors  con- 
tented for  his  Freight  until  the  unlading  thereof,  regard  being  had  to 
the  place  and  time  of  lading,  and  order  likewise  to  deliver  the  said 
ship  with  the  gear  to  the  said  Arnald  :  as  his  petition  shews  that 
lately  at  Lescluse  he  freighted  the  said  ship  with  the  said  wheat  of  his 

and  of  other  merchants  of  Flanders,  being  of  the  growth  of  Flanders, 

to  be  taken  to  Valence  in  Arragon,  and  that  the  said  ship  on  her 
\oyage  at  sea  \\a>  in  part  wrecked  off  the  coast  of  the  [sle  of  Wight, 
wherefore  the  said  wheat  was  for  salvage  thereof  put  ashore  in  the 

said  town,  praying  licence  to  lade  the  Mine  in  that  porl  and  bring 
it  to  iiourdeaux  ;    and  in  consideration  of  the  deamesfl  of  00X11   in 


L26  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  41 — cont. 

England  in  these  days  the  king  will  not  suffer  the  same  to  be  taken 
out  of  the  realm,  but  it  is  his  will  that  it  be  sold  within  the  realm 
in  aid  of  the  sustenance  of  his  lieges. 

March  22.  To  the  collectors  in  Kent  of  the  tenth  and  fifteenth  last  granted 
•minster,  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  England.  Order  of  the  king's  favour 
to  suffer  the  now  master  and  brethren  of  the  hospital  of  Domus  Dei 
Dovorre  to  be  quit  of  all  tallages,  charges,  subsidies,  grants  and  aids, 
and  of  tenths  and  fifteenths  granted  or  made  to  the  king  by  the  said 
commons,  not  troubling  or  grieving  them  in  aught  contrary  to  the 
king's  charter  ;  as  lately  of  his  favour  the  king  granted  to  the  said 
master  and  brethren  that  they  and  their  successors  should  be  quit 
of  all  manner  of  tallages  etc.  to  be  by  the  clergy  or  the  commons 
granted  to  the  king  or  his  heirs,  notwithstanding  that  any  such  were 
after  the  foundation  of  the  hospital  demanded  and  paid  by  them  or 
their  predecessors  to  the  king  or  his  forefathers  ;  and  the  hospital  is 
in  these  days  of  so  slender  means  and  so  bowed  down  with  misfortune 
that  the  lands,  goods  and  possessions  thereof  may  hardly  support  the 
charges  incumbent  thereupon. 

Membrane  40. 

March  12.  To  Nicholas  Potyn  searcher  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in  the  port  of 
Westminster.  London.  Order,  if  assured  that  John  de  Conyngesby  buyer  of 
victuals  for  the  king's  household  lately  laded  780  woolf ells  to  him  pertain- 
ing by  his  said  office  in  a  boat  at  Depford  for  the  cause  hereinafter 
mentioned,  to  dearrest  the  said  fells  and  boat  and  deliver  them  to 
the  said  John  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  he  so  laded  them  in  order 
to  bring  them  to  the  city  of  London  and  nowhere  else  for  ease  of 
carriage  and  to  lessen  the  expense,  and  there  to  sell  them  and  answer 
to  the  king  for  what  pertains  to  him,  that  he  caused  them  to  be 
brought  thither  for  that  purpose,  and  that  the  searcher  has  arrested 
fells  and  boat  as  forfeit  to  the  king,  and  is  detaining  them  under  arrest, 
pretending  that  the  said  John  would  without  the  king's  licence  have 
taken  the  fells  over  sea,  wherefore  fells  and  boat  ought  to  be  forfeit. 

March  9.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.  Order  to  cause  Ralph  de  Langton  to 
Westminster,  have  seisin  of  two  messuages,  30  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of  meadow 
in  Walton  in  le  Dale  held  by  Richard  son  of  Robert  le  Wryght  of 
Walton  in  le  Dale  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have 
been  in  the  king's  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand, 
that  the  said  Richard  held  them  of  Robert  de  Langton  grandfather 
of  the  said  Ralph  whose  heir  the  said  Ralph  is,  and  that  John  duke  of 
Lancastre  had  the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought 
to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same. 

March  24.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Donewych  and  the  bailiffs 
Westminster,  of  the  town  of  Leystoft.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William 
Neuport  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  to  suffer  him  within  those 
ports  to  lade  in  ships  300  quarters  of  wheat,  beans  and  pease  and 
bring  them  to  the  city  of  London,  any  proclamations,  ordinances 
or  commands  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding,  certifying  under  their 
seals  in  chancery  without  delay  the  quantity  of  corn  so  laded  ;   as  he 


49    EDWARD    III.  127 


1375.  Membrane  40 — cont. 

has  prayed  licence  to  lade  the  same  and  bring  it  thither  for  the  main- 
tenance of  the  king's  lieges  there,  and  the  king  has  granted  licence 
for  that  William  Kelleshull  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  has  mainperned  for  him  that  he  shall 
bring  the  same  to  London  for  that  purpose  and  nowhere  else,  and 
shall  bring  again  into  chancery  letters  witnessing  the  unlading  thereof. 

To  the  same.  Like  order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  Kelleshull 
citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London  for  licence  to  lade  and  bring  to 
London  200  quarters  of  wheat,  beans  and  pease,  by  mainprise  of 
William  Neuport  citizen  and  fishmonger. 

March  27.        To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lenne.     Like  order,  upon  the  petition 
Westminster,  of  William  Reynwelle  for  licence  to  lade  in  that  port  and  bring  to 
London  160  quarters  of  wheat  and  40  quarters  of  beans,  by  mainprise 
of  Hugh  de  Ware  and  John  Bridecote  of  London. 

Membrane  39. 

March  18.  To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  toft  and  24  acres  of 
land  and  meadows  in  Brampton  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by 
reason  of  the  idiocy  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Robert  son  of  Richard  de 
Brampton,  who  died  20  June  in  the  45th  year  of  the  reign,  and  are 
yet  in  his  hand,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  that  day  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  premises  so  came  to  his  hands  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  they 
are  held  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that  Thomas  son  of  Robert  son 
of  Richard  de  Brampton  is  brother  and  next  heir  of  the  said  John 
and  of  full  age. 

March  20.        Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  William  atte  Hegge,  who  is  dead. 

March  22.        To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 

Westminster,  elected  instead  of  Robert  de  Croxton,  who  was  elected  by  the  late 

sheriff  only  and  not  with  the  assent  of  the  county  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Like  order  to  the  same  sheriff  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of 

Nicholas  de  Inghowe. 

Like  order  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of  William  Hydewyn. 

March  23.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Norwich.  Order  to  suffer  .John  Burwel] 
Westminster,  citizen  of  London  by  himself  and  his  servants  in  the  said  city  to  lade 
in  boats  and  ships  60  quarters  of  wheat  by  him  bought  and  purveyed 
in  Norffolk  and  bring  them  to  the  city  of  London,  any  proclamations, 
ordinances  or  commands  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding:  as 
Geoffrey    Puppe    and    Robert    Wet  heresfeld    of    London    have    main- 

perned  for  him  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  4(M.  that  he  shall  bring  the 

same  to  London  for  sustenance  of  the  king's  lieges  dwelling  there  and 
to  no  other  parts,  and  shall  bring  again  into  ehaneeiv  letters  of  the 
mayor  of  London  witnessing  the  unlading  thereof. 

March  28.         To  Thomas  de   QlestorJ  escheator  in  Sussex.      Ordei  t<>  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  atid  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Sountynge 

and    Iw  hurst    by    Hanefeld,    a    messuage    and    5U    acres    of    land    m 


12s  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  39 — cont. 

Stenyngge  and  Brembre,  and  a  toft  and  60  acres  of  land  called  the 
Potto  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Andrew  Peverel 
knight,  delivering  to  Katherine  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  lias  Learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Andrew  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  demesne  nor  in  service,  but  by  gift  of  Roger  Leche  parson  of  Shire- 
manbury  and  Robert  Cooke  vicar  of  Ifeld  held  the  said  manors  jointly 
with  the  said  Katherine  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Andrew, 
by  gift  of  John  Piper  and  Joan  his  wife  held  the  premises  in  Stenyngge 
and  Brembre  jointly  with  the  said  Katherine,  and  by  gift  of  John 
Bonard  and  Maud  his  wife  held  the  premises  called  the  Potte  jointly 
with  the  said  Katherine  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Andrew, 
and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

March  29.  To  Perceval  Walssh.  Order  to  pay  to  the  monk  of  the  alien  priory 
Westminster,  of  Astele  5  marks  for  Michaelmas  term  last,  and  10  marks  a  year 
for  maintenance  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  so  long 
as  he  shall  have  the  keeping  thereof,  answering  at  the  exchequer  for 
his  whole  farm,  knowing  for  a  surety  that  if  he  shall  refuse  so  to  do 
the  king  will  take  the  priory  again  into  his  hand,  and  will  commit 
the  farm  thereof  to  another  who  will  do  it  ;  as  lately  the  king  com- 
mitted to  the  said  Perceval  the  keeping  of  that  priory  and  of  all  its 
possessions  from  Easter  last  so  long  as  war  with  France  shall  endure, 
rendering  at  the  exchequer  of  Michaelmas  and  Easter  25  marks  a  year 
by  even  portions,  paying  to  a  certain  monk  thereof  for  maintenance 
101.  a  year  at  those  terms,  paying  with  the  clergy  of  England  the 
tenths  falling  upon  the  said  priory  so  often  as  they  should  be  granted, 
and  so  long  as  he  should  have  the  keeping  of  the  same  bearing  all 
charges  ordinary  and  extraordinary  incumbent  thereupon ;  and 
although  from  times  long  past  a  prior  and  a  monk  his  fellow  used  to 
be  therein  resident,  which  monk  is  yet  there,  as  may  appear  by  letters 
of  the  cathedral  church  of  Worcester  and  of  the  abbot  of  Evesham 
produced  in  chancery,  and  the  said  Perceval  is  by  the  form  of  his 
commission  bound  to  support  all  charges,  he  refuses  to  pay  or  deliver 
any  maintenance  to  the  said  monk,  who  has  no  livelihood  if  it  be  not 
bestowed  upon  him  of  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  priory,  but  from 
the  time  that  keeping  was  committed  to  him  has  withrawn  such 
maintenance  and  is  now  unlawfully  withholding  the  same  contrary 
to  the  king's  intent  and  to  the  farm  of  his  commission  ;  and  the  king 
has  compassion  upon  the  said  monk's  estate,  and  would  make  pro- 
vision for  his  maintenance.  By  C. 

April  9.  To  the  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Reylegh  for  the  time  being. 

Westminster.  Order  to  suffer  John  de  Wendelyngburgh  the  king's  clerk  parson  of 
Estwode  to  have  six  kine  pasturing  in  the  said  park  in  lieu  of  twelve 
swine  which  his  predecessors  used  to  have,  not  troubling  or  grieving 
him  in  aught  contrary  to  the  king's  letters  patent ;  as  John  de 
Honesdon  late  parson  of  Estwode  and  his  predecessors  time  out  of 
mind  used  to  have  eight  kine  and  twelve  swine  therein  pasturing  the 
whole  year,  as  the  king  was  fully  informed  ;  and  for  that  the  pasture 
thereof  was  much  trampled  by  the  swine  to  the  hurt  of  the  park, 
willing  to  provide  against  such  damage  and  recompense  the  said  parson, 
on  1  October  in  the  35th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent 


49    EDWARD    III. 


129 


1375.  MtmOrane  39 — cont. 

granted  to  the  said  then  parson  that  he  and  his  successors  should 
have  six  kine  pasturing  in  the  said  park  in  lieu  of  the  swine  aforesaid 
without  let  of  the  king  and  his  heirs,  his  bailiffs,  foresters  or  ministers 
whatsoever. 
Et  erat  patens. 

April  15.         To  the  sheriff  of  Leycester.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Richard  Hotoft,  who  is  dead. 

March  10.        To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.    Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  Roger  Preiers,  who  is  dead. 

April  25.  To  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 
Westminster,  the  Cinque  Ports  or  to  his  lieutenant  there,  and  to  the  mayor  and 
bailiffs  of  Sandewich  and  to  every  of  them.  Order  to  cause 
Lazarus  de  Pu}T,  Lewis  Caet,  Michael  de  Pera  and  Geoffrey  de 
Corville  to  be  arrested  wherever  found  within  the  liberty  of  the  Cinque 
Ports,  and  to  be  brought  with  all  speed  before  the  council  at 
Westminster  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  money  hereinafter  men- 
tioned and  concerning  other  matters  which  shall  then  and  there  be 
laid  before  them  on  the  king's  behalf  ;  as  the  said  Lazarus  and  the 
others  were  by  Thomas  de  Felton  seneschal  of  Gascony  retained  to 
sail  with  him  on  the  king's  service  to  Gascony,  as  he  has  certified  in 
chancery,  and  after  receiving  by  his  hands  divers  sums  of  the  king's 
money  for  their  wages  withdrew  from  that  service  and  are  lurking  in  the 
said  liberty  to  sail  privily  to  foreign  parts  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will 
that  answer  be  made  by  them  for  that  money,  and  that  they  be  chastised 
according  to  their  deserts. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  38. 

April  8.  To  Walter  Cifrewast  escheator  in  Dorset  and  Somerset.     Order 

Westminster,  to  take  the  fealty  of  Alice  late  wife  of  Ralph  Russell  knight  tenant  in 
chief  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the 
king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  two  thirds  of  the  manors  of 
Athelyngton  and  Kyngeston  Russell  co.  Dorset  and  two  thirds  of 
the  manor  of  Horsyngton  co.  Somerset  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
her  said  husband's  death,  delivering  to  the  said  Alice  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Ralph  at  his  death  held  the  parts  aforesaid  in  chief 
jointly  with  the  said  Alice  by  grant  of  Maurice  de  Brun  the  elder, 
Maurice  de  Brun  the  younger  and  Gilbert  de  Bradegate  chaplain 
made  with  the  king's  licence. 

April  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues 
Westminster,  of  the  county  to  pay  every  year  by  indenture  to  John  de  Multon 
knight  100  marks  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  :  as  on 
12  December  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  the  king  of  his  favour 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  John  for  his  good  service  100 
marks  to  be  taken  every  year  at  the  exchequer  it  Caster  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions  during  his  life  or  until  the  king  should 
take  other  order  for  his  estate  ;  and  upon  his  petition,  for  that  ho 
has  given  up  those  letters  in  chancery  to  be  cancelled  and  for  his  good 

ea  9 


130  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  38 — cont. 

service,  the  king  has  now  granted  to  the  said  John  by  letters  patent 
to  have  100  marks  a  year  of  the  issues  of  the  said  county  by  the  hands 
of  the  sheriff  as  aforesaid  during  his  life  or  until  the  king  shall  take 
other  order  for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

May  7.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.     Order  to  take  the 

Westminster,  fealty  of  Elizabeth  wife  of  Geoffrey  son  of  Edmund  Gascelyn 
according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the 
king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  the  manor  of  Shulden  and 
Chippenham  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said  husband's  death, 
delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court  with  his  licence  the  said  Geoffrey  at  his  death  held  that  manor 
jointly  with  the  said  Elizabeth  by  gift  of  Peter  de  Sutton  and  Gilbert 
Prouet  vicar  of  Preston  Candevere  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service. 

Membrane  36.* 

May  16.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  governor  and  guardian  of  Ireland,  and 
Westminster,  to  the  chancellor  and  treasurer,  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  and 
the  justices  of  either  Bench  in  Ireland  or  their  representatives,  the 
ordinaries  and  ministers  of  holy  church  and  to  their  commissaries 
there  and  every  of  them.  Order,  upon  petition  made  to  the  king 
on  behalf  of  Hugh  cardinal  de  Sancto  Marciale,  when  need  be 
and  when  they  or  any  of  them  shall  be  required,  to  cause 
sufficient  counsellors  learned  as  well  in  the  laws  of  Ireland  as  in 
other  laws  and  discreet  to  be  assigned  for  competent  salaries 
to  the  said  cardinal  in  all  pleas,  businesses  and  plaints  for  or 
against  him  moved  before  them  or  any  of  them ;  as  the  said 
petition  shews  that  for  the  prosecution,  furtherance  and  defence 
of  his  business  the  cardinal  is  sending  to  Ireland  certain 
proctors,  and  has  made  them  his  attorneys  general,  and  that  he  fears 
that  for  lack  of  counsel  and  of  sufficient  counsellors  he  may  easily 
suffer  hurt  and  prejudice  in  regard  to  divers  businesses,  pleas  and 
plaints  for  or  against  him  moved,  praying  that  the  king  will  make 
provision  for  his  peace  and  for  the  furtherance  and  defence  of  his 
right ;  and  the  king  would  not  that  the  cardinal  or  any  other  should 
in  his  courts  be  put  down  or  oppressed  contrary  to  law. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Feeder  a.} 

Membrane  35. 

May  16.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 
Westminster,  elected  instead  of  John  Laweson  ;   as  the  king  has  learned  by  credible 
witness  that  the  said  John  is  too  sick  and  aged  to  exercise  that  office, 
wherefore  the  king  has  removed  him. 

May  20.         To  Roger  de  la  Lee  escheator  in  Salop  and  the  march  of  Wales 

Westminster,  adjacent.     Order  to  cause  William  brother  and  heir  of  John  son  of 

William  Corbet  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  the  said  John's  lands 

*  The  face  of  m.  37  is  blank. 


49    EDWARD    III.  131 


1375.  Membrane  35 — cont. 

taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said 
William's  nonage  ;  as  the  said  William  proved  his  age  before  John 
de  Perton  late  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [30529.] 

To  John  Serjeant  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  the  march  of 
Wales  adjacent.  Like  order,  as  the  said  William  proved  his  age 
before  John  de  Perton. 

May  28.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  governor  of  Ireland  or  to  his  representative. 
Westminster.  Order  at  his  peril  to  cause  Edmund  Laurence  to  be  attached  by  his 
body  wherever  he  shall  be  found  in  Ireland,  and  to  cause  him  to  come 
before  the  king  and  council  at  Westminster,  so  that  he  shall  be  there 
in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next  to  answer  concerning  the 
matters  hereinafter  mentioned,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what 
shall  by  the  council  be  appointed,  having  there  this  writ  ;  as 
although  lately  for  particular  causes  him  moving  the  king  by  divers 
writs  of  the  great  and  the  privy  seal  ordered  the  said  Edmund  under 
a  pain  of  500/.  to  be  in  person  before  the  king  and  council  at 
Westminster  on  set  days  therein  contained  to  give  information 
touching  matters  which  should  then  and  there  be  laid  before  him, 
and  though  he  received  those  writs  in  the  presence  of  the  chancellor 
and  treasurer  of  Ireland  as  the  king  is  by  them  informed  of  a  surety, 
in  contempt  of  the  king  and  his  commands  he  has  hitherto  taken 
no  heed  to  come  before  the  king  and  council  or  to  signify  the  cause 
wherefore  he  ought  not  so  to  do. 

Membrane  34. 

May  20.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows  justices  appointed  to  hold 
Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  command  an 
inquisition  which  remains  to  be  taken  between  the  king  and  John 
prior  of  St.  Botolph  Colcestre,  executor  of  Lionel  de  Bradenham  late 
collector  in  Essex  of  the  tenth  and  fifteenth  granted  to  the  king,  and 
John  de  Sutton  knight  tenant  of  certain  lands  late  of  the  said  Lionel, 
concerning  1091.  of  the  said  tenth  and  fifteenth  by  the  said  Lionel 
levied  and  not  paid  to  the  king  it  is  said,  to  be  taken  before  any  of  the 
king's  justices  according  to  the  statutes. 

May  15.         To  the  sheriff  of  Berkes.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Edmund  of  Styvynton,  who  is  dead. 

May  24.  To  Oliver  deHarnham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire  (.sic).  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Sutton 
Courtenay  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Hugh  de 
Courtenay  knight,  delivering  to  Maud  late  his  wife  any  issues  then  ■  t 
taken  ;  as  the  king  lias  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Hugh  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  in  chief  by  knight 
service  in  right  of  the  said  Maud  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Hugh  de 
Courtenay  carl  of  Devon  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  her  and  the 
heirs  of  her  body  by  her  said  husband  ;  and  the  king  has  command,  d 
the  fealty  of  the  said  Maud  to  be  taken. 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  upon  the  Clos{  Koll  of  tost  year. 


182  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  34 — cont. 

June  5.  To  Walter  Cyfrewast  escheator  in  Dorset.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  10  marks  of  yearly  rent 
issuing  from  the  manor  of  Pytrechesham  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Edmund  (sic)  Gascelyn,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Geoffrey  son  of  the  said  Edmund  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Geoffrey  at  his  death  held  no  lands  etc.  in  that  county  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  10  marks  of  rent  issuing  from 
the  said  manor,  which  is  held  for  life  by  Robert  Bridemere  by  demise 
of  the  said  Geoffrey  with  reversion  to  the  said  Geoffrey  and  his  heirs, 
that  the  said  manor  is  held  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that  Christina 
the  elder  and  Christina  the  younger  daughters  of  the  said  Geoffrey 
are  his  next  heirs  and  of  full  age  ;  and  by  certificate  of  John  bishop  of 
Bath  and  Wells,  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command,  it  is  found 
that  the  said  Christina  the  elder  has  entered  the  order  of  nuns  in 
Mynchenbarwe  priory  and  has  there  taken  the  habit  of  religion,  being 
therein  professed  at  the  age  of  fourteen  and  upwards,  and  has 
there  publicly  worn  the  habit  of  nuns  professed  for  five  years,  and 
that  she  has  left  no  heir  of  her  body  begotten  before  such  entry  into 
religion. 

To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Like  order ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Geoffrey 
son  of  Edmund  Gascelyn  at  his  death  held  the  manor  of  Great 
Chiverel  and  divers  other  lands  in  that  county  of  others  than  the 
king,  and  that  Christina  Gascelyn  his  daughter  is  his  next  heir  and  of 
full  age. 

May  19.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  two  messuages  and 
Westminster,  three  shops  in  Cordewanerstrete  in  the  parishes  of  St.  Mary  le  Bow 
and  Aldremarychurch  London,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken 
since  the  death  of  James  Andrew  citizen  of  London,  to  be  seized  into 
the  king's  hand  and  safe  kept  to  his  use  until  further  order,  and  to 
make  inquisition  by  oath  of  true  men  of  Cordewanerstrete  ward  con- 
cerning waste  and  estrepement  by  John  Vyne  '  draper '  citizen  of  London 
and  tenant  of  the  premises  there  made  in  the  mean  time,  sending  the 
inquisition  into  chancery  under  the  sheriffs'  seal  and  the  seals  of  them 
by  whom  it  was  made,  also  this  writ ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an 
inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  William  de  Walle worth 
mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein,  that  the  said 
James  at  his  death  held  the  premises,  which  he  formerly  had 
for  life  by  grant  and  demise  of  William  de  Weston  and  Margery 
his  wife  sometime  wife  of  Robert  de  Upton  for  a  yearly  rent  of 
10/.  16s.  8d.  payable  to  the  said  William  and  Margery  during  the  said 
Margery's  life  and  to  her  heirs  during  the  life  of  the  said  James,  with 
reversion  of  the  premises  after  his  death  to  the  said  William  and 
Margery  and  to  the  said  Margery's  heirs,  that  after  the  said  William's 
death  the  said  Margery  granted  to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all 
her  estate  in  the  rent  and  reversion  aforesaid,  that  the  said  James 
attorned  tenant  to  the  king,  that  the  king  granted  the  said  rent  and 
reversion  to  William  de  Thorp  knight  and  William  Pek  for  the  life  of 
either  of  them  with  reversion  after  the  death  of  William  de  Thorp, 
William  Pek  and  the  said  James  to  the  prioress  and  sisters  of  the 
house  of  the  order  of  preachers   by  the   king  newly  founded  at 


49    EDWARD    III.  133 


1375.  Membrane  34 — cant. 

Derteford  in  aid  of  their  maintenance,  that  by  virtue  of  this  grant  the 
said  James  attorned  himself  to  William  de  Thorp  and  William  Pek 
both  now  deceased,  that  by  their  deatli  the  rent  and  reversion  of  the 
premises  fell  to  the  said  prioress  and  sisters,  that  they  by  charter 
after  gave  the  same  to  the  king  and  his  heirs,  and  that  by  virtue  of 
their  grant  the  said  James  attorned  himself  to  the  king,  the  king  by 
writ  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  give  notice  to  the  tenants  of  the  premises 
to  be  in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  last  in  order  to  shew 
cause  wherefore  the  same  ought  not  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand 
and  remain  with  him  and  his  heirs,  and  wherefore  such  tenants  ought 
not  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death 
of  the  said  James,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should 
determine,  and  the  sheriffs  returned  that  they  gave  notice  accordingly 
to  the  said  John  Vyne  ;  and  that  process  between  the  king  and  the 
said  tenant  being  after  continued  to  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  last, 
John  Vyne  appearing  in  person  in  the  chancery  at  London  acknow- 
ledged the  king's  right  to  have  the  premises  to  him  and  his  heirs  as 
by  the  inquisition  supposed,  and  surrendered  the  same  to  the  king, 
releasing  whatsoever  he  had  therein,  and  renouncing  his  right  in  that 
behalf. 

Membrane  33. 

May  21.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Middlesex.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  Adam  Fraunceys  the  younger  the  manor  of  Edelmeton,  20  wain 
loads  of  brushwood  to  be  taken  yearly  in  the  out  park  of  Enefeld 
which  was  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  late  earl  of  Hereford,  four  messuages, 
four  carucates  of  land,  93|  acres  of  meadow  in  the  common  marsh, 
166  acres  1  rood  of  pasture,  46  acres  3  roods  of  great  wood,  120  acres 
of  underwood,  and  il.  18s.  Id.  of  rent  in  Edelmeton  and  Totenham,  a 
messuage,  38  acres  of  land,  10  acres  of  meadow  and  2  acres  of  pasture 
in  Edelmeton  and  Enefeld  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Adam  Fraunceys  citizen  of  London,  together  with  the  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  at  his  death  the  said  Adam  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
nor  of  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  that  he  held  for  life  the 
said  manor  with  20  loads  of  brushwood  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  in 
chief  by  knight  service  by  grant  of  Robert  Bealknap  and  John  Wroth 
the  younger  made  with  the  king's  licence,  the  premises  in  Edelmeton 
and  Totenham  by  grant  of  William  Halden  and  John  Osekyn  citizens 
of  London,  Thomas  Byeston  vicar  of  Edelmeton,  Thomas  Pateshull 
chaplain  and  John  Ussher,  and  the  premises  in  Edelmeton  and  Enefeld 
by  grant  of  John  Ussher  and  William  de  Ancroft,  all  with  remainder  to 
the  said  Adam  the  younger  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  that  the  said 
messuages,  land,  meadow,  pasture,  wood  and  rent  were  lately  held 
of  the  manor  of  Edelmeton,  and  that  after  the  said  deceased  acquired 
that  manor  the  same  were  with  the  said  manor  held  in  chief  by  the 
service  of  one  knight's  fee  and  of  rendering  13s.  4c/.  a  year  at  the 
exchequer  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  of  Middlesex  ;  and  tho  king 
has  taken  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Adam  the  younger.     By  p.8. 

May  20.         To  Geoffrey  de  Dereham  steward  of  the  honour  of  Reylcgh.     Order 

Westminster,  to  remove  the  king'fl  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  farther  With  a  messuage 

and  36  acres  of  land  in   Reylcgh   held   by  James   Parker,  delivering 


134  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  33 — cord. 

up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition, 
taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Roger  de  Wolfreston  late  escheator 
in  Essex,  that  the  said  James  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  late  king's 
court  held  the  premises  of  others  than  the  king  by  gift  of  John  Smolt 
the  elder  to  the  said  James  and  Katherine  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  right 
heirs  of  the  said  James,  that  the  said  James  and  Katherine  are  dead 
without  issue,  that  Walter  Parker  son  of  Thomas  son  of  the  said 
James  is  cousin  and  the  next  heir  of  the  said  James  and  of  full  age, 
that  it  was  told  to  the  then  steward  of  William  de  Bohun  late  earl 
of  Norhampton,  who  held  the  said  honour  with  the  manor  of  Estwodeto 
farm  of  Queen  Philippa  for  a  term  of  20  years,  that  John  son  of  John 
Fullere  the  younger  a  neif  of  that  manor  was  cousin  and  next  heir  of 
the  said  Katherine,  having  no  knowledge  of  the  fine  above  recited,  and 
entered  the  premises,  wherefore  the  said  steward  ordered  the  bailiff  of 
the  said  manor  to  seize  the  premises  into  the  said  earl's  hand  and 
answer  for  the  issues  thereof  until  the  said  neif  would  receive  and 
hold  the  same  by  way  of  increase  according  to  the  custom  of  the  said 
manor ;  and  now  the  said  Walter  has  petitioned  the  king  for  livery 
of  the  premises,  shewing  that  he  is  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  James 
as  aforesaid,  and  the  king  ordered  the  said  Geoffrey  to  certify  in 
chancery  under  his  seal  the  manner  and  cause  of  his  taking  and  keeping 
the  same  in  the  king's  hand,  and  to  be  in  chancery  at  a  set  day  now 
past  to  give  information  touching  the  king's  right  to  the  premises 
now  claimed  by  the  said  Walter  by  virtue  of  the  said  gift  and  fine, 
and  he  has  certified  that  after  the  said  Katherine 's  death  the  said  John 
son  of  John  Fullere  the  younger  the  lord's  neif  entered  the  premises  as 
her  next  heir,  wherefore  order  was  given  to  seize  the  same  into  the 
lord's  hand  as  a  bondage,  and  appearing  in  chancery  the  said  Geoffrey 
said  that  he  knew  no  other  cause  for  taking  or  keeping  the  premises  in 
the  king's  hand  ;    and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 

To   John   Stanhope   of   Rampton   escheator   in   Notynghamshire. 

Westminster.  Order  to  deliver  to  Agnes  sister  and  heir  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of 
John  de  Longvilers  tenant  in  chief,  a  messuage  in  Soutleverton, 
one  carucate  of  land  in  the  said  town  of  Leverton  and  Northcotom, 
20  acres  of  meadow  in  Trentmerssh,  12  acres  of  meadow  in  Humburme- 
dewe,  65.  4i.  of  rent  there,  and  six  cottages  in  Leverton  and  Cotom 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  John  Longevillers 
and  Thomas  and  by  reason  of  her  nonage  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  at  his  command  by  John  Foucher  late  escheator, 
that  John  son  of  John  Longvilers  knight  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  by 
gift  and  feoffment  of  John  his  father  held  the  premises  of  others  than 
the  king  with  reversion  to  John  the  father  and  to  his  heirs  if  John  the 
son  should  die  without  an  heir  of  his  body,  and  that  John  the  son  died 
without  issue,  wherefore  the  same  ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift  to 
remain  to  the  said  Agnes,  whom  Robert  son  of  Ralph  Cromwell  has 
taken  to  wife,  the  said  Thomas  having  died  within  age  in  the  king's 
wardship  ;  and  on  13  December  last  her  age  was  proved,  and  the 
king  took  the  fealty  of  the  said  Robert,  and  commanded  livery  to  be 
given  to  the  said  Robert  and  Agnes  of  her  said  father's  lands. 
Vacated^  because  otherwise  upon  the  Close  Roll  of  the  48$  year. 


49    EDWARD    III.  135 


1375.  Membrane  33 — cent. 

May  27.  To  John  Sergeant  escheator  in  Gloucestershire,  Herefordshire  and 
Westminster,  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and 
not  to  meddle  further  with  the  castle,  town  and  lordship  of  Bergeveny 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Hastynges  earl 
of  Pembroke,  It?,  of  rent  excepted,  delivering  to  Anne  his  wife  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  earl  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  the 
counties  and  march  aforesaid  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but 
long  before  his  death  with  the  king's  licence  enfeoffed  Walter  Amyas, 
John  Abraham.  John  Doune,  John  Prat,  Ralph  de  Walsham  and 
Thomas  de  Crekkelade  of  the  premises,  to  hold  to  them  and  their 
heirs,  rendering  to  the  earl  and  to  his  heirs  Id.  a  year,  that  after  the 
said  feoffees  by  charter  with  the  king's  licence  gave  the  premises  to 
the  said  earl  and  Anne  for  their  lives,  and  that  the  same  are  held  in 
chief  by  the  service  of  keeping  the  said  castle  in  time  of  war  in 
Wales  ;    and  the  king  has  taken  the  said  Anne's  fealty. 

June  5.  To  John  Sergeant  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  castle  and  lordship 
of  Sturguyll,  the  town  of  Chepestowe  and  the  manor  of  Todenham 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de  Hastynges  earl  of 
Pembroke,  delivering  to  Anne  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
earl  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  bailiwick  in  chief  or  of  others 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  premises  jointly 
with  the  said  Anne  for  a  term  of  40  j'ears  by  demise  of  Margaret 
Maresshall  dame  de  Segrave. 

Membrane  32. 

May  1.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriff  and  the  coroner  of  Bristol,  and  to  the 

Westminster,  keepers  of  the  passage  in  that  port.  Order,  if  assured  by  inquisition 
or  otherwise  that  Andrew  de  Nodde  was  only  servant  of  certain 
merchants  of  Florence,  and  drowned  himself  owing  to  infirmity  and 
not  of  malice,  and  that  the  ship,  money  and  merchandise  hereinafter 
mentioned  were  arrested  for  no  other  cause,  to  dearrest  the  samo 
without  delay,  and  if  they  shall  find  that  the  said  Andrew  drowned 
himself  of  his  own  malice  and  not  by  reason  of  infirmity,  to  keep  his 
own  goods  (if  any),  and  to  deliver  to  the  said  merchants  or  their 
attorneys  the  ship,  money  and  all  other  their  goods  and  merchandise, 
namely  to  every  one  such  as  he  may  prove  to  be  his  ;  as  on  behalf  of 
the  said  merchants  the  king  has  learned  that  by  the  said  Andrew 
their  attorney  therein  they  lately  freighted  a  certain  ship  at  Bour- 
deaux  with  iron,  salt  and  other  merchandise  in  place  of  merchandise 
brought  thither  from  Flanders,  and  brought  the  same  so  freighted  to 
England  to  the  town  of  Bristol,  that  after  its  coming  thifcher  the  said 
Andrew  suddenly  fell  into  a  frenzy  and  drowned  himself  in  the  river 
of  that  town,  and  that  for  that  cause  the  said  mayor  etc.  have  arrest,  d 
and  are  detaining  the  said  ship  and  their  money  and  merchandise 
therein,  although  the  said  Andrew  had  no  property  in  the  samo, 
praying  the  king  to  dearrest  the  said  ship,  money  and  merchandise. 

April  23.        To  Richard  Lyouns  of  London.     Order  not  to  meddle  henceforward 
Westminster,  in  the  levy,  collection  or  receipt  in  the  port  <>t"  London,  in  Hingnltf 

the  places  from  thence  to  I  Iraveeende  on  either  side  the  river  Than 


136 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  32 — cont. 

at  Gravesende  and  from  thence  to  Tillebury  on  the  Essex  side,  of 
the  subsidy  of  2s.  of  every  tun  of  wine  and  6d.  in  the  pound  of  goods 
and  merchandise  whatsoever  brought  to  England  or  taken  thence, 
wool,  hides  and  woolfells  excepted,  which  was  granted  to  the  king 
by  the  prelates,  lords  and  merchants  of  the  realm  in  the  parliament 
holden  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Edmund  the  King  in 
the  47th  year  of  his  reign,  although  lately  the  king  granted  and  to 
farm  demised  to  the  said  Richard  that  subsidy  for  the  second  year 
of  the  grant  thereof,  namely  from  Christmas  now  past  for  one  whole 
year,  in  the  ports  and  places  of  England  whatsoever,  within  liberties 
and  without,  wherein  wines  or  merchandise  should  be  laded  or  un- 
laded ;  as  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  appointed  Richard  Fraunceys 
and  Robert  de  Garton  to  take,  levy  and  collect  the  same  to  his  use 
in  the  places  above  mentioned.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  Richard 
Lyouns  be  thereof  discharged  toward  the  king. 

April  23.  To  Richard  Lyons  citizen  of  London.  Order  not  to  meddle  hence- 
Westminster,  forward  in  the  collection,  levy  and  receipt  of  the  petty  custom  in 
the  port  of  London  and  in  singular  the  ports  and  members  adjacent, 
although  lately  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  and  demised  to 
him  to  farm  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  and  places  aforesaid  from 
Christmas  last  until  Christmas  next ;  as  the  king  by  letters  patent 
has  appointed  Richard  Fraunceys  and  Robert  de  Garton  by  them- 
selves and  their  deputies  to  levy,  collect  and  take  to  the  king's  use 
during  pleasure  the  petty  custom  in  the  port  of  London  etc.  to  Tille- 
bury (as  in  the  last).  It  is  the  king's  will  that  Richard  Lyons  be 
thereof  discharged  toward  him. 

May  24.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  remove  the  king's 
Westminster,  hand  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  21  acres  of  land 
and  8s.  4d.  of  rent  in  Horndon  which  were  of  John  Davy  of  Wynters- 
hell  by  Billirica,  delivering  to  him  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately 
the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause  where- 
fore the  premises  were  by  him  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  he 
certified  that  he  seized  into  the  king's  hand  a  messuage  and  20  acres 
of  land  in  Botelespirie  which  were  of  the  said  John,  by  name  of  a 
messuage  and  20  acres  of  land  in  Horndon  which  were  of  John  Davyd 
of  Botelespirie,  for  that  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken, 
that  the  said  John  being  indicted  for  felony,  namely  for  the  death  of 
John  Baroun  who  was  John  Baroun  the  younger,  became  a  fugitive  ; 
and  by  certificate  of  John  de  Cavendissh,  sent  into  chancery  at  the 
king's  command,  it  is  found  that  John  Davy  was  before  John  de 
Cavendissh  and  his  fellows  justices  appointed  for  delivery  of  the 
gaol  of  Colcestre  castle  acquitted  of  the  said  felony,  and  that  he 
never  withdrew  himself  by  reason  thereof. 

May  28.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  Richard  Ravenser  the  king's  clerk,  clerk  of  the  hanaper 
of  chancery,  to  view  certain  indentures,  to  receive  of  him  383  charters 
contained  in  a  bag  of  '  canevace  '  and  cancel  them,  allowing  the  said 
Richard  in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  the  fees  for  the  same  ;  as 
his  petition  shews  that,  among  other  charters  and  letters  patent  which 
he  received  of  Richard  de  Thoresby  late  keeper  of  the  hanaper,  he 
received  by  indentures  383  charters  of  divers  pardons  for  felonies 


V.)    EDWARD    III. 


137 


1375. 


Membra  tie  32 — con(. 


and  seditions  by  the  king  made  before  he  took  up  his  said  office, 
which  charters  by  lapse  of  time  have  utterly  lost  their  force,  and  that 
the  treasurer  and  barons  are  purposing  unlawfully  to  charge  him 
at  the  exchequer  with  the  fees  for  those  charters,  although  upon  his 
account  he  delivered  the  same  to  them  in  the  said  bag  in  order  to  be 
discharged,  praying  the  king  to  make  provision  for  his  discharp 

June  6.  To  the  collectors  in  Xorffolk  of  the  tenth  and  fifteenth  last  granted 

Westminster,  to  the  king  by  the  commons  of  England,  and  to  the  mayor  of  Lenne. 
Order  to  cause  all  and  singular  the  men  of  that  town  to  be  compelled 
and  distrained  to  pay  without  delay  all  sums  of  money  reasonably 
assessed  upon  them  and  every  one  of  them  according  to  their  estate 
and  means  as  well  for  their  tenements  and  rents  as  for  their  moveable 
goods,  sparing  none,  and  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  same,  so  that 
by  default  of  the  collectors  and  mayor  payment  of  those  sums  be  not 
delayed,  nor  the  poor  commonalty  of  the  said  town  unduly  charged 
or  grieved  ;  as  by  grievous  complaint  made  on  behalf  of  the  said 
commonalty  the  king  has  learned  that  although  all  the  men  of  the 
town  rich  and  poor  are  by  the  taxers  and  collectors  assessed  to  the 
said  tenth  and  fifteenth,  every  one  according  to  his  estate  and  means 
and  according  to  the  quantity  of  his  tenements  and  rents  and  of  his 
moveable  goods  in  the  said  town,  certain  rich  men  and  sufficient 
having  most  lands,  rents  and  goods  therein  have  refused  and  do  now 
refuse  to  pay  the  sums  upon  them  assessed,  averring  that  they  ought 
not  to  be  taxed  for  their  tenements  and  rents,  to  the  king's  hurt  and 
prejudice,  delaying  payment  of  the  tenth  and  fifteenth,  and  to  the 
oppression  and  destruction  of  the  commonalty,  wherefore  they  have 
prayed  the  king's  aid  ;  and  the  king  is  aware  that  every  man  ought 
to  be  charged  to  payment  thereof  according  to  his  estate  and  means 
as  well  for  his  tenements  and  rents  as  for  his  moveable  goods. 

Membrane  31. 

May  27.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Ivo  Gobyon,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  1.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton  and  every 

Westminster,  of  them.  Order  to  cause  no  wrong,  trouble,  hurt  or  grievance 
to  the  warden  and  brethren  of  the  order  of  friars  minors  dwelling  in 
that  town  and  celebrating  for  the  health  of  the  faithful,  but  to 
protect  and  defend  them  so  that  they  may  peaceably  go  on  in  divine 
services  without  let  or  wrong,  for  which  the  king  may  deservedly 
commend  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  ;  as  in  consideration  of  the  honesty 
of  their  religion  it  is  the  king's  will  to  favour  the  said  warden  and 
brethren,  as  befits  his  majesty. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  [of  Bcrkes,  in  margin]  to  cause  verdexen  m  the 
king's  forest  of  Wyndesore  to  be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  Cruohefeld, 
John  atte  More,  John  de  Ycvyndon  and  Richard  \\  hatrigge.  who 
are  dead. 

Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  sheriff  |of  Sumy,  in  margin] 
to  cause  a  verdrrer  in  the  said  fon  t  to  be  elected  instead  of  William 
atte  Park,  who  i-  <1<  ad. 


138 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1  ->75.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

May  '26.  To  John  Sayville  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  the  manors  of  Raskelf  and  Crakhall  and  divers  lands 
in  Carleton  and  Coverdale,  Welle,  Newebiggynge,  Thoraldby  and 
Burton  and  a  third  part  of  the  pasture  of  Wensladale  upon  the  earl's 
soil  held  in  dower  bj'  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Ralph  de  Neville  tenant  in 
chief  of  the  heritage  of  John  de  Neville  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Ralph, 
and  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator  that  the  said  Alice  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  nor  of  others  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  in 
dower  of  the  right  and  heritage  of  the  said  John  de  Neville  the  manor 
of  Raskelf  of  the  heirs  of  the  lord  de  Moubray  tenant  in  chief  being 
within  age  and  in  the  king's  hand,  the  manor  of  Crakhall  and  other 
the  premises  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  on  10  October  in  the  41st 
year  of  his  reign  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said 
John  [de  Neville]  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  the 
premises. 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  below. 

July  3.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent  and  Surrey.     Order  in 

Westminster,  the  name  of  the  king's  lordship  to  take  a  simple  seisin  within  the 
gates  of  the  abbey  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury,  now  void  by  the 
death  of  Thomas  Col  well  the  last  abbot  it  is  said,  and  not  to  meddle 
by  reason  of  this  vacancy  with  the  said  abbey  or  the  temporalities 
or  any  propriety  and  goods  thereto  belonging,  delivering  without 
deduction  to  the  prior  and  convent  any  issues  thereof  taken,  for  it 
is  the  king's  will  that  the  escheator  be  thereof  discharged  toward 
him,  saving  to  the  king  during  this  vacancy  the  knights'  fees  held 
of  the  abbey,  the  advowsons  of  churches  and  escheats  which  shall 
fall  in  during  the  vacancy,  and  the  keeping  of  any  lands  acquired 
by  the  abbey  since  1  September  9  Edward  II ;  as  on  that  day  the 
late  king  by  letters  patent  and  by  a  fine  of  200  marks  with  him  made 
by  the  then  abbot  and  convent,  and  for  a  remission  and  pardon  which 
they  made  with  the  said  king  of  500  marks  wherein  king  Edward  I 
was  bound  to  them  by  his  letters  patent,  which  they  surrendered, 
granted  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  that  at  the  next  vacancy 
the  prior  and  convent  should  have  the  keeping  of  the  abbey 
for  600  marks,  and  that  thenceforward  at  every  vacancy  of 
the  said  abbey  the  prior  and  convent  for  the  time  being  should 
have  the  keeping  of  the  abbey  and  the  temporalities  thereof 
with  all  property  and  goods  thereto  belonging  as  fully  as  the  abbot 
and  convent  had  in  times  past  when  the  see  was  filled,  so  that  they 
should  have  free  administration  and  disposal  thereof  as  they  should 
see  best,  saving  to  the  king  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  so  that 
all  yearly  rents  and  services  thereof  arising  during  vacancies  should 
remain  to  the  prior  and  convent,  and  saving  also  escheats  which  at 
the  end  of  every  vacancy,  namely  after  the  fealty  of  the  abbot  elect, 
confirmed  or  appointed,  should  be  delivered  and  remain  to  the  abbot, 
prior  and  convent  and  to  their  successors  without  trouble  or  let  of 
the  king,  his  heirs  or  ministers,  rendering  to  the  king  for  every  vacancy 
after  the  first  whether  it  should  endure  half  a  year  or  less  600  marks, 
namely  300  marks  within  the  first  two  months  of  such  vacancy  and 
300  marks  before  the  end  of  the  next  two  months  after  those,  and  if 
it  should  endure  one  whole  year  after  the  half  year  1,000  marks  for 


19    EDWARD    111. 


130 


1375. 


Membrane  31 — cont. 


that  year,  and  for  a  greater  or  less  time  after  the  half  year  in  pro- 
portion, so  that  no  sheriff,  escheator  or  other  bailiff  or  minister  of 
the  king  should  by  reason  of  a  vacancy  meddle  in  the  keeping  of  the 
abbey  or  its  cells,  the  manors  or  other  property  or  goods  thereto 
belonging,  except  that  at  the  beginning  of  every  vacancy  the  escheat <t 
or  other  minister  of  the  king  for  the  time  being  should  take  a  .simple 
seisin  as  aforesaid  and  forthwith  depart  without  taking  or  carrying 
aught  away,  so  that  by  reason  thereof  he  should  not  make  his  abode 
there  more  than  one  day  nor  leave  any  substitute  in  his  room,  saving 
also  to  the  king  the  keeping  of  any  lands  or  rents  by  the  abbot  and 
convent  thereafter  acquired  in  fee,  to  be  kept  during  vacancies  by  the 
escheator  or  other  the  king's  ministers,  so  that  no  escheator  or  other 
minister  should  by  reason  thereof  enter  or  meddle  in  the  abbey  or 
aught  thereto  belonging. 

June  8.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  petition  lately  made  on 

Westminster,  behalf  of  Stephen  Philip  an  alien,  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Stoke 
clerk  and  brother  Michael  prior  of  Longbenyngton  to  set  him  free 
from  Neugate  prison  without  delay  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that 
without  the  king's  licence  he  lately  entered  the  realm  by  the  port  of 
London,  that  he  was  by  the  keeper  of  the  port  taken  upon  suspicion 
that  he  so  entered  to  spy  out  the  king's  secrets  and  reveal  them  to 
his  adversaries  abroad,  and  was  delivered  to  the  sheriffs  to  be  kept  in 
the  said  prison  in  safe  custody  until  command  should  be  given  by  the 
king  for  his  deliverance,  and  that  he  is  there  detained  although  he 
entered  not  for  that  nor  for  any  evil  cause,  praying  for  deliverance  ; 
and  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  to  take 
information  touching  the  behaviour  and  condition  of  the  said 
Stephen  therein,  and  if  they  should  find  him  not  suspect  or  guilty 
and  detained  for  that  cause  and  for  none  other,  to  take  of  him  security 
for  his  good  behaviour  toward  the  king,  his  realm  and  subjects,  and 
to  set  him  free,  certifying  in  chancery  what  they  should  do  at  that 
command  ;  and  they  certified  that  the  said  Stephen  entered  the 
realm  without  licence  in  order  to  visit  a  certain  monk  his  friend  born 
in  Normandy  and  dwelling  at  Longbynyngton  for  maintenance  and 
livelihood,  and  not  to  spy  out  nor  reveal  the  king's  secrets,  that  he  is 
of  good  behaviour  and  condition  as  they  have  made  careful  inquisition, 
and  that  they  deferred  to  set  him  free  for  that  he  might  not  find 
security  according  to  the  form  of  the  king's  command  ;  and  the  said 
John  and  Michael,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
for  his  good  behaviour,  and  that  he  shall  attempt  nought  which  may 
tend  to  the  hurt  or  prejudice  of  the  king,  his  realm  or  subjects. 

June  4.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Sussex.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  60  acres  of  land  in 
Eldebury  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  atte 
More,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Thomas  at  to 
More  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  elm  f  in  demesne 
nor  in  service,  but  held  that  land  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that 
John  his  son  aged  10  years  is  his  next  heir. 

June  18.        To  tho  sheriff  of  Northumberland.    Order  to  oanse  i  coroner  to  be 

Westminster,  elected  instead  of  .Nicholas  Ingowc  ;    as  Henry  de  iVicy  htl  testified 


no 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  31 — cont. 

in  chancery  that  the  said  Nicholas  is  insufficiently  qualified,  wherefore 
the  king  has  removed  him. 

Like  order  to  the  same  sheriff  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of 
John  YYalyngton. 

Like  order  to  the  same  sheriff  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of 
William  Hide^yn. 

June  2-1.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Surrey  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Amondesham,  who  is  too  aged  to  labour  in  that  office. 

Membrane  30. 

June  12.  To  Richard  Waterden  escheator  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk.  Order  to 
Westminster,  suffer  the  now  dean  and  chapter  of  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  to 
have  the  keeping  and  full  disposal  of  the  bishopric  of  London,  now 
void  by  the  translation  of  Simon  the  last  bishop  to  be  archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  and  of  all  temporalities  thereof  in  that  bailiwick,  with 
all  property  and  goods  to  the  same  belonging,  delivering  to  them  any 
issues  thereof  taken  since  that  vacancy  began,  saving  to  the  king 
the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  churches  to  the  bishopric 
belonging  and  escheats  which  shall  fall  in  during  this  vacancy,  also 
the  keeping  during  this  vacancy  of  any  lands  by  the  bishops  acquired 
and  annexed  to  the  bishopric  since  19  December  in  the  11th  year  of 
the  reign  ;  as  on  that  day  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the 
dean  and  chapter  that  at  every  vacancy  of  the  said  bishopric  they 
and  their  successors  should  have  the  keeping  thereof  and  of  all  the 
temporalities  with  all  property  and  goods  thereto  belonging  as  fully 
as  the  bishops  had  when  the  see  was  filled  or  as  the  king  might  or 
ought  to  have  had  if  the  keeping  thereof  were  kept  in  his  hand,  saving 
the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  and  the  escheats  falling  in  during 
such  vacancies,  which  escheats  at  the  end  of  a  vacancy,  namely  after 
the  fealty  of  the  bishop  elect  and  confirmed  or  appointed,  should  be 
delivered  and  remain  to  the  bishop  and  his  successors,  and  saving 
to  the  king  and  his  heirs  the  keeping  of  any  lands  and  rents  by  the 
bishops  thereafter  acquired  in  fee,  to  be  kept  by  the  escheators  and 
other  ministers  of  the  king  during  such  vacancies,  rendering  to  the 
king  for  every  vacancy,  if  it  should  endure  one  whole  year,  1,000?. 
whereat  the  bishopric  is  yearly  taxed,  and  if  for  a  greater  or  less 
time  in  proportion. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire. 

Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Surrey,  Sussex  and  Middlesex. 

William  Walworth  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 
therein. 

June  27.  To  Thomas  Walssh  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  Thomas  son  of  Giles  de  Erdyngton  and  to  Margaret  his  wife  the 
manor  of  Barwe  upon  Sore  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  the  causes 
hereinafter  mentioned  ;  as  Henry  de  Erdyngton  lately  acquired  of 
Ralph  Basset  to  him  and  his  heirs  a  fourth  part  of  the  said  manor, 
which  is  held  in  chief,  and  of  John  Lestraunge  another  fourth  part, 
and  after  Giles  de  Erdyngton  (now  deceased)  entered  the  said  manor 
without  due  process  or  livery  of  the  king's  court,  and  thereof  enfeoffed 
William  le  Walssh  late  parson  of  Upton  and  Thomas  Wylde  chaplain 
and  their  heirs,  and  having  full  and  peaceable  seisin  thereof  the  said 


49    EDWARD    III. 


141 


1375.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

William  and  Thomas  after  gave  the  said  manor  to  the  said  Giles  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife  for  life,  with  remainder  to  the  said  Thomas  son  of 
Giles  and  to  the  said  Margaret  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Giles  and  his  heirs,  the 
king's  licence  for  these  things  not  having  been  obtained,  and 
the  manor  is  by  the  escheator  taken  into  the  king's  hand  as  well  by  the 
death  of  the  said  Elizabeth  as  by  reason  of  the  trespasses  aforesaid  ; 
and  the  king  of  his  favour  and  for  20/.  by  the  said  Thomas  son  of 
Giles  and  by  the  said  Margaret  paid  has  pardoned  those  trespasses, 
granting  by  letters  patent  so  far  as  in  him  lies  that  Thomas  son  of 
Giles  and  the  said  Margaret  shall  hold  the  said  manor  to  them  and  the 
heirs  of  their  bodies  with  remainder  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 
said  Giles  without  let  of  the  king  or  his  heirs,  their  justices,  escheators, 
sheriffs  or  other  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever. 

June  27.  To  Thomas  Walssh  escheator  in  Leycestershire  and  Warwickshire. 
Westminster.  Order  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the 
manors  of  Knossyngton  co.  Leycester  and  Erdyngton  co.  Warrewvk 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife 
of  Giles  de  Erdyngton,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Elizabeth  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as 
of  fee,  but  by  gift  of  Henry  de  Cobynton  and  John  Wynnshurst 
chaplain  held  the  said  manors  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that 
Thomas  de  Erdyngton  her  son  is  her  next  heir  and  of  full  age. 

June  3.  To  Richard  Husee  and  John  Shottere  vendors  of  underwood  within 

Westminster,  the  king's  forest  of  Melchet.     Order  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  Robert 

Bunte  and  George  Joce,  whom  the  king  has  appointed  to  repair  his 

manor  of  Claryndon  and  the  paling  of  his  park  there,  for  the  purpose 

of  such  repairs,  all  moneys  in  their  hands  of  the  sale  aforesaid. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  Lokeharm  and  John  Justice  vendors  of  underwood  within 

Claryndon  park. 
Thomas  Wysdam  and  John  Wydeford  vendors  of  underwood  in 
Grovele  forest. 

June  27.  To  Walter  Cyfrewast  escheator  in  Dorset.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Corfe  Malvn, 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife 
of  Gyles  de  Erdyngton,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Elizabeth  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in 
her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  others  than  the  king, 
and  that  Thomas  de  Erdyngton  her  son  is  her  next  heir  and  of  full 
age. 

July  10.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltesir.  Order 
Westminster,  to  take  the  fealty  of  Katherine  wife  of  .John  de  Ksthurv  for  the  manor 
of  Blaggrove  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to 
remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  the  manors  "f 
Blaggrove  and  Qaddele,  a  messuage,  one  oaruoate  of  land  and  : 
of  rent  in  Dplamborne,  a  messuage,  one  caruoate  of  land  ami  .'{  acres 
of  meadow  in  Wynterborne  Earls  and  Wynterborne  Forde,  and  ono 


142 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  30 — cont. 

carucate  of  land  in  Mymbury  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said 
John's  death,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
Learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John 
at  his  death  held  the  manor  of  Blaggrove  of  the  heirs  of  the  earl  of 
Hereford  tenant  in  chief,  who  are  within  age  and  in  the  king's 
wardship,  the  manor  of  Haddele  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  Katherine 
his  wife,  and  the  residue  of  the  premises  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  his 
said  wife  and  Thomas  their  son  of  others  than  the  king. 

July  12.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  remove  the  king's 
Westminster,  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  14  acres  of  land 
in  Dunton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  outlawry  of 
John  Laurence  of  Dunton,  delivering  to  Henry  Foucher  and  Alice 
his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Joan  late  wife  of" 
the  said  John,  who  was  wife  of  Andrew  le  Nyng'  likewise  deceased  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  John,  who  was  outlawed  for  felony,  on  the  day  of  his  outlawry 
held  the  premises  in  right  of  the  said  Joan,  that  the  said  Andrew 
and  Joan  held  the  same  for  life  by  demise  of  Robert  Colman  of  Little 
Burstede  with  remainder  to  Alice  Cooke  yet  living  whom  the  said  Henry 
has  taken  to  wife,  and  that  they  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 


Membrane  29. 

July  6.  To    John    Karnels    escheator    in    Norhamptonshire.      Order,    if 

Westminster,  partition  thereof  be  not  yet  made  nor  livery  given,  in  presence  of  the 
heirs  and  parceners,  if  being  warned  they  will  attend,  to  make  a 
partition  into  four  equal  parts  of  a  messuage,  three  cottages,  one 
virgate  of  land  and  4  acres  of  meadow  in  Silveston,  and  to  cause 
Thomas  Wolfencote,  son  of  Joan  one  of  the  sisters  of  Richard  father 
of  John  de  Braundeston,  to  have  seisin  of  his  purparty  together  with 
the  issues  of  that  purparty  taken  since  12  July  in  the  46th  year  of 
the  reign  ;  as  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  Simon  Warde  then  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his 
death  held  the  premises  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  by  service  of 
serjeanty,  namely  to  taste  the  king's  wine  when  he  should  make  his  abode 
in  his  manor  of  Sylveston,  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands  in  that 
county  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that  the  said  Thomas,  John 
Assheby  son  of  Margery  the  second  sister  of  the  said  Richard,  both  of 
full  age,  Agnes  de  Foxle  daughter  of  John  son  of  Olive  his  third  sister, 
and  John  Mabely  son  of  Richard  son  of  Margaret  his  fourth  sister, 
both  within  age,  are  cousins  and  next  heirs  of  John  de  Braundeston,  on 
12  July  aforesaid  the  king  respited  the  homage  of  the  said  Thomas 
and  John  Assheby  for  their  purparties  to  a  set  day  now  past,  and 
ordered  the  late  escheator  to  take  their  fealty,  to  take  of  them 
security  for  payment  of  their  relief  at  the  exchequer,  to  make  a 
partition  of  the  premises  into  four  equal  parts,  and  to  cause  the  said 
Thomas  and  John  Assheby  to  have  seisin  of  their  respective  purparties, 
with  a  proviso  that  every  one  of  the  said  heirs  should  have  a  share  of 
the  lands  so  held  in  chief  and  should  be  a  tenant  of  the  king,  keeping 
in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order  the  purparties  of  the  said  Agnes 
and  John  Mabely  ;  and  the  king  has  now  taken  the  homage  and 
fealty  of  the  said  Thomas.  Proviso  (as  before) ;  and  order  to  send  the 
partition  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 


49    EDWARD    III.  143 


1375.  Membrane  29 — cont. 

July  14.  To  Walter  Sifrewast  escheator  in  Dorset.  Order,  if  the  parcels 
Westminster,  hereinafter  mentioned  are  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause  stated  and 
for  none  other,  and  if  assured  by  oath  of  true  men  of  his  bailiwick  that 
the  lands  recovered  are  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Wynfred  Neubourgh 
which  is  held  in  chief,  to  take  the  fealty  of  Hawise  wife  of  Thomas 
son  and  heir  of  Robert  de  Neuburgh,  and  to  deliver  the  said  parcels 
to  her  according  to  the  effect  of  the  judgments  herein  recited  ;  as  on 
18  March  in  the  11th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent 
gave  licence  to  the  said  Robert  to  enfeoff  Nicholas  de  Neuburgh  clerk 
and  Adam  Tettebourne  clerk  and  their  heirs  of  the  said  manor,  so 
that  they  having  full  and  peaceable  seisin  thereof  might  give  the 
same  to  the  said  Robert  for  life  with  remainder  to  the  said  Thou 
and  Hawise  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  ;  and  now  the  said  Hawise 
has  petitioned  the  king  for  restitution  of  divers  parcels  thereof, 
shewing  that  after  the  said  Robert's  death  the  said  Thomas  obtained 
possession  of  the  said  manor  and  without  the  king's  licence  aliened 
those  parcels  to  divers  persons  for  life,  namely  to  John  Bagge  and 
John  his  son  6  acres  of  land,  to  John  Tiddelyng  3  acres  of  land,  to 
Richard  Font  18  acres  of  land  and  1  acre  of  meadow,  to  William 
Jattey  and  Joan  his  wife  10  acres  of  land  and  2  acres  of  meadow,  to 
A  vice  Saldyns  18  acres  of  land  and  \  acre  of  meadow,  to  Edward 
Mantel  30  acres  of  land  and  5  acres  of  meadow,  to  William  Reynald 
and  Joan  his  wife  and  Robert  Wylly  3  acres  of  land  and  £  acre  of 
meadow,  to  William  Cod  and  Maud  his  wife  6  acres  of  land  and  \  acre 
of  meadow,  to  Joan  Bagge  16  acres  of  land  and  \  acre  of  meadow, 
to  Avice  Malyns  3  acres  of  land,  to  Nicholas  Malyn  a  messuage  and 
1  acre  of  meadow,  to  Maud  Terryes  3  acres  of  land,  to  John  Stoke 
5  acres  of  land  and  i  acre  of  meadow,  to  Henry  Gylmyn  and  Alice  his 
wife  18  acres  of  land  and  \  acre  of  meadow,  to  John  Penbrygge  and 
Joan  his  wife  3  acres  of  land  and  h  acre  of  meadow,  to  Avice  who  was 
\\  ife  of  John  Gydyion  5  acres  of  land  and  1  rood  of  meadow,  to  Avice 
Shippester  3  acres  of  land,  to  Richard  Duryng  and  Christiana  his  wife 
8  acres  of  land  and  1  acre  of  meadow,  to  William  Kemere  and  Margery 
his  wife  10  acres  of  land  and  1  acre  of  meadow,  to  Nicholas  Catour 
18  acres  of  land  and  1  acre  of  meadow,  to  Roger  Raulys  and  Avice 
his  wife  6  acres  of  land  and  I  acre  of  meadow,  to  Geoffrey  Warfoule 
3  acres  of  land  and  £  acre  of  meadow,  to  John  Tyte  6  acres  of  land 
and  \  acre  of  meadow,  to  John  Colyns  18  acres  of  land  and  1  acre  of 
meadow,  to  John  Beaugraunt  and  Agnes  his  wife  3  acres  of  land  and 
1  acre  of  meadow,  to  Isolda  who  was  wife  of  William  Snow  3  acres  of 
land  and  1  rood  of  meadow,  to  Avice  North  3  acres  of  land  and  1  rood 
of  meadow,  to  Nicholas  Tidelyng  and  Edith  his  wife  a  messuage,  to 
John  Possch'  and  Christina  his  wife  20  acres  of  land  and  4  acres  of 
meadow,  to  Robert  atte  Water  3  acres  of  land  and  1  acre  of  meadow, 
to  Clement  Mulward  and  Avice  his  wife  3  acres  of  land  and  1  acre  of 
meadow,  and  to  John  Whiteclyve  and  Alice  his  wife  3  acres  of 
meadow  all  in  Wynfred  Neubourgh,  and  that  although  Bhe  overlived 
the  said  Thomas,  and  by  judgments  rendered  in  the  king's  court  U]  on 
the  records  and  processes  of  causes  before  the  justices  <>f  the  Bench 
by  divers  writs  of  cui  in  vita  recovered  the  said  parcels  against  t lie- 
persons  named,  as  appears  by  the  tenor  of  those  records  and  pn 
which  the  king  has  caused  to  come  before  him  in  ohancery,  Adam 
atte    More    late    escheator    took     the    said    parcels    into    the    ting's 

hand,  pretending  that  in  those  alienations  trespasses  are  committed 

against  the  king,  and  the  same  are  yet  in  the  king's  hand. 


144  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


137;,.  Membrane  29 — cord. 

July  10.  To  John  Sayvylle  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  further  with  the  manors  of  Raskelf  and  Crakhall  and  divers  lands 
in  Carleton  and  Coverdale,  Welle,  Nywebyggyngge,  Thoraldby  and 
Burton,  a  third  part  of  the  pasture  of  Wensladale  upon  the  soil  of  the 
earl  of  Richemund,  and  40/ .  6s.  8d.  of  rent  issuing  from  the  manor  of 
Sutton  in  Galtres  which  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Ralph  de  Nevylle 
tenant  in  chief  at  her  death  held  in  dower  of  the  right  and  heritage  of 
John  de  Nevylle  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Ralph,  and  which  by  her  death 
are  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Alice  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of 
others  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  as  aforesaid  the  manor  of 
Raskelf  of  the  heirs  of  lord  de  Moubray  tenant  in  chief,  who  are  within 
age  and  in  the  king's  hand,  the  manor  of  Crakhall  and  other  the 
premises  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  on  10  October  in  the  41st  year 
of  his  reign  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  John 
[de  Nevylle]  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's 
lands. 

Membrane  28. 

July  20.  To  John  de  Sayville  escheator  in  Yorkshire  and  Westmorland. 
Westminster.  Order  to  deliver  to  Ingelram  de  Coucy  earl  of  Bedford  and  Isabel  his 
wife  the  king's  daughter  the  manors  and  moiety  hereinafter  mentioned, 
with  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches  and  other  appurtenances, 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John 
de  Coupland,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  her  death  ; 
as  lately  of  his  favour  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said 
earl  and  Isabel  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  the  remainder  of  all 
the  manors  and  lands  held  for  life  by  the  said  Joan  with  remainder  to 
the  king,  and  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches,  hospitals, 
religious  houses,  vicarages  and  chapels,  the  parks,  forests,  chaces,  woods, 
warrens,  fisheries,  moors,  marshes,  turbaries,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  services  of  tenants  free  and  neif,  liberties,  escheats,  wards, 
marriages,  reliefs,  commodities,  profits  etc.  thereto  belonging,  which  by 
virtue  of  the  said  earl's  charter  ought  to  have  remained  to  the  king  ;  and 
now  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator  at  the  king's 
command,  that  the  said  Joan  held  for  life  the  manors  of  Thornton,  Coggill 
and  Midleton  co.  York,  the  manor  of  Wynandermer  with  the  members 
and  appurtenances,  namely  the  hamlets  of  Lageden,  Loghrygge, 
Grysmer,  Hamelsate,  Troutebek,  Appilthwayt,  Crosthwayt,  Strike- 
landkell  and  Hoton,  the  manor  of  Castirton  and  a  moiety  of  the 
manor  of  Kyrkeby  Kendale  co.  Westmorland,  with  remainder  as 
aforesaid,  and  that  the  manors  of  Wynandermer  and  Castirton  and 
the  said  moiety  with  the  members  are  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of 
the  moiety  of  one  fee  of  barony  (unius  feodi  Baronie*),  the  other  manors 
of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has  of  his  favour  respited  the 
homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  earl,  who  is  dwelling  over  sea  with  the 
king's  licence,  until  his  return  to  England.  By  K. 

To  Richard  de  Hoghton  escheator  in  Lancashire.  Order  to  remove 
the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Moresholme,  the  moieties  of  the  manors  of  Wiresdale  and  Assheton 

*  Sic.     Also  in  the  original  inquisition. 


49    EDWARD    III.  145 


1375.  Membrane  28 — cont. 

and  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Whytyngton,  with  the  knights' 
fees,  advowsons  of  churches  and  other  appurtenances  thereof  in  his 

bailiwick  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  who  was 
wife  of  John  de  Coupland,  delivering  to  the  said  earl  and  Isabel  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  of  his  favour  etc.  (as  above)  ;  and  it 
is  found  that  she  held  the  premises  for  life  etc.  ;  and  that  the  same 
are  held  of  others  than  the  king.  By  K. 

Membrane  27. 

July  5.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand   made   by  exchequer  summons  upon  Agnes  who   was 
wife  of  John  Mautravers  the  elder  and  is  his  executrix  to  answer  to 
the    king  for  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Rathgell  co.  Lemeryk  or  to 
account  for  the  same  during  the  time  the  manor  was  by  the  king's 
commission  in  her  said  husband's  keeping,  discharging  her  and  Robert 
Rous  knight,  Joan  his  wife,  John  Daroundell,  Eleanor  his  wife  and 
all  others  at  the  exchequer  of  England  of  the  said  issues  or  the  value 
of  that  manor  ;    as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken 
at  the  king's  command  by  Nicholas  de  Bekenesfeld  then  escheator 
in   Ireland   and   returned   in   the   chancery   of   England,   that  John 
Mautravers  the  younger  at  his  death  held  the  said  manor  in  chief 
by  knight  service  for  his  life  by  demise  of  John  Mautravers  the  elder 
with  reversion  to  John  the  elder  and  to  his  heirs,  at  the  suit  of  the 
said  John  the  elder  in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  in 
the  37th  year  of  the  reign,  averring  that  the  said  manor  was  held 
of  the  countess  Dessemond  as  of  her  manor  of  Inskysty  and  not  in 
chief,  for  that  it  was  before  the  king  alleged  that  the  same  is  held 
of  the  king  as  found  by  the  said  inquisition,  and  was  without  the 
king's  licence  aliened  by  the  said  John  the  elder  to  the  said  John 
the  younger  for  life,  the  king  sent  the  record  and  process  of  the 
business  for  debate  before  the  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas  which 
follow  the  justiciary  of  Ireland,  committing  meanwhile  the  keeping 
of  the  said  manor  to  the  said  John  the  elder  according  to  the  statute, 
so  that  he  should  answer  at  the  exchequer  of  Dublin  for  the  issues  or  the 
value  thereof  if  it  should  be  determined  that  the  manor  or  the  keeping 
thereof  ought  to   pertain  to  the   king  ;    and   subsequently   the   said 
Robert  and  Joan,  John  de  Arundell  and  Eleanor,  the  said  Joan  and 
Eleanor  being  cousins  and  heirs  of  the  said  John  the  elder  who  died 
while  the  business  was  pending  without  debate,  and  the  said  Agnes 
being  his  wife  and  executrix  who  is  distrained  to  render  account  as 
aforesaid,   appearing  in   person   in   the  said  chancery,   averred   that 
the  said  manor  at  the  time  of  the  alienation  was  held  of  the   late 
countess  of  Dessemond,  and  is  now  held  of  the  earl  of  Dessemond   as 
of  their  manor  of  Inskysty  and  not  of  the  king,  as  they  were  ready 
to  shew  forth  in  due  manner,  craving  that  the  king's  hand  be  removed, 
and  Michael  Skills  Tig  the  king's  attorney  offered  for  the  king  to  prove 
that  the  same  was  held  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and   WSB  without 

the  king's  licence  aliened  as  aforesaid,  oraving  that  inquisition  be 
made  by  the  country,  and  the  said  Robert  Joan,  John  [de  Arundell] 
Eleanor  and  Agnes  likewise,  wherefore  a  day  was  given  them  to 
in  chancery  in  the  quineaine  of  Midsummer  next  to  d<>  and  receive 
what  should  be  lawful  in  the  premises;  and  willing  to  be  fully  oertified 
concerning  the  business  the  king  appointed  the  chancellor  of  Ireland, 

10 


146  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

Robert  Holywode  chief  baron  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland,  William 
de  Karlille  baron  of  the  said  exchequer,  the  escheator  of  Ireland, 
Walter  Lanfant  knight  and  Michael  Laweles,  five,  four,  three  and 
two  of  them,  by  the  oath  of  knights  and  other  true  men  of  Ireland 
not  of  kinship  or  affinity  with  the  parties  or  with  the  earl  of  Dessemund, 
son  and  heir  of  the  said  countess,  to  take  the  proof  aforesaid,  com- 
manding the  said  chancellor  and  the  others  to  summon  to  them  the 
king's  Serjeants  and  others  of  the  council  of  Ireland  who  ought  to  be 
summoned  and  the  said  parties,  to  take  information  touching  the 
business,  and  at  set  days  and  places  by  them  provided  to 
take  the  said  proof,  sending  the  same  to  the  chancery  of  England 
under  the  king's  seal  used  in  Ireland  before  the  quinzaine  of  Mid- 
summer or  on  that  day  at  latest  ;  and  now  it  is  found  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  virtue  of  the  king's  command  before  the  said  escheator, 
Walter  and  Michael  and  returned  in  the  chancery  of  England,  that 
the  said  manor  of  Rathgell  is  not  held  in  chief  but  of  the  earl  of 
Dessemond  as  of  his  manor  of  Inskysty  by  the  service  of  405.  of  the 
king's  service  when  a  scutage  is  current  and  by  suit  of  the  earl's  court 
of  Inskysty  from  quinzaine  to  quinzaine,  and  that  at  the  time  of  the 
alienation  the  same  was  held  of  the  said  countess  by  the  services  and 
suit  aforesaid  and  not  in  chief. 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  treasurer  of  Ireland  and  the 
barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland. 

July  8.  To  Thomas  Walssh  escheator  in  Leycestershire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Houby 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Edmund  de  Fretheby 
knight,  delivering  to  Margaret  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Edmund  at  his  death  held  that  manor  jointly  with  the  said 
Margaret  of  the  gift  of  Robert  de  Melton  to  them  and  the  heirs  male 
of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said 
Edmund's  right  heirs,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  others  than  the 
king. 

To  John  Carnelles  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Like  order 
concerning  certain  lands  in  Harleston,  Heyford,  Bryngton  and 
Colyntrou  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Edmund  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  as  dower  of 
the  said  Margaret  after  the  death  of  Ralph  de  Bolymer  sometime  her 
husband,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  John  Sayville  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Like  order  concerning 
the  manor  of  Edelthorp  with  the  appurtenances  of  Berthorp,  the 
manor  of  Fretheby,  a  messuage  and  ten  bovates  of  land  in 
Grymsthorp  Acclyve,  a  messuage  and  two  bovates  of  land  in  Wystowe, 
a  messuage  and  two  bovates  of  land  in  Rillyngton,  the  manor  of 
Bulmere  and  divers  other  lands  in  Yorkshire  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Edmund  de  Fretheby 
knight  at  his  death  held  the  said  manors  of  Edelthorp  and  Fretheby 
and  the  premises  in  Grymsthorp,  Wystowe  and  Rillyngton  jointly 
with  Margaret  his  wife  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  de  Carethorp 
parson  of  Tanfeld  and  Robert  de  Melton  to  them  and  the  heirs  male 


49    EDWARD    III. 


147 


1375.  Membrane  27 — cont. 

of  his  body,  the  manor  of  Bulmere  and  other  lands  aforesaid  as  the 
said  Margaret's  dower  after  the  death  of  Ralph  de  Bulmere  sometime 
her  husband,  and  that  all  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

July  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  and  to  the  charu- 
Weatminster.  berlains.  Order  to  account  with  William  de  Burstall  the  king's  clerk, 
to  whom  on  22  July  in  the  45th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  commit  ted 
the  keeping  of  the  House  of  the  Converts  London  for  life  with  all 
things  thereto  belonging,  concerning  fees  and  wages  as  well  for 
himself  as  for  one  chaplain  and  one  clerk  serving  the  said  house,  also 
for  John  de  Sancta  Maria  and  Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino  converts 
of  the  said  house  now  living,  in  the  same  manner  as  used  to  be  done 
with  William  Ayremyn  and  Henry  de  Ingelby  late  keepers  thereof, 
allowing  the  said  William  de  Burstall  such  wages  for  himself,  the 
chaplain,  clerk  and  converts  aforesaid  as  were  at  the  exchequer 
allowed  to  the  said  William  Ayremyn  and  Henry  ;  and  order  to  the 
treasurer  and  chamberlains  to  pay  of  the  treasury  what  shall  by  such 
account  be  found  due  to  him  ;  as  King  Edward  I  of  his  reverence  for 
the  Virgin  Mary  granted  by  letters  patent  to  his  converts  of  London 
for  life  202Z.  4d.  to  be  taken  every  year  at  the  exchequer  towards 
their  maintenance  and  the  maintenance  of  a  keeper  of  the  house, 
two  chaplains,  one  clerk  of  their  houses  and  other  property,  so  that 
after  the  death  of  every  convert  so  much  a  year  of  that  sum  should 
lapse  as  the  deceased  used  to  take  for  his  portion. 

July  19.  To  Walter  Cyfrewast  escheator  in  Dorset.  Order  to  cause  John 
Guildford,  son  and  heir  of  Henry  Moigne  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  his 
said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Henry's 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  John's  nonage  ;  as  he  has  proved  his 
age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [30578.] 

To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  the  counties  of  Suthampton  and 
Wiltesir.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis ;  as  the  said  John  has  proved 
his  age  before  Walter  Cyfrewast.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Roger  Keterych  escheator  in  Essex. 

John  Serjeaunt  escheator  in  Gloucestershire. 


Membrane  26. 

July  18.  To  Walter  Cyfrewast  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset.  Order 
Henley.  in  the  name  of  the  king's  lordship  to  take  a  simple  seisin  within  Un- 
gates of  Glastonbury  abbey  and  to  depart  forthwith,  not  taking  or 
carrying  aught  away,  so  that  he  shall  not  make  his  abode  then-  longer 
than  one  day  nor  leave  any  substitute  in  his  room.  Buffering  the  now 
prior  and  convent  fully  to  have  the  keeping  and  disposal  of  the  abbey, 
now  void  by  the  death  of  Walter  de  Monynton  the  last  abbot,  ami  of 
all  the  temporalities  thereof  in  hia  bailiwick,  the  property  and  good* 
thereto  belonging,  and  delivering  to  them  without  delaj  any  a 
thereof  taken,  Bavins  to  the  king  the  knights'  fees  and  aavowsoni  of 
churches  thereto  belonging  and  escheats  after  21  January  in  the 
third  year  of  the  reign,  and  the  keeping  during  tins  vacancy  of  any 

lands  by    the    abbot  [iiiied    since    that    day    and    to    the    abbey 


148  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  26 — cont. 

annexed  ;  as  on  27  June  (sic)  in  the  aforesaid  year  the  king  with  the 
assent  of  the  prelates,  earls,  barons  and  other  nobles  of  the  realm 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  abbot,  prior  and  convent  of 
Glastonbury  that  at  every  vacancy  of  the  abbey  by  death,  cession, 
resignation  or  otherwise  the  prior  and  convent  and  their  successors 
should  have  the  keeping  of  the  abbey  and  all  the  temporalities  thereof 
with  all  goods  and  property  to  the  same  belonging  as  fully  as  ever 
the  abbot  had  when  the  see  was  filled,  so  that  they  should  have 
free  administration  and  disposal  of  the  said  temporalities,  property 
and  goods  as  they  should  see  best,  saving  to  the  king  the  knights' 
fees  and  advowsons  of  churches  during  a  vacancy,  rendering  to  the 
king  for  every  vacancy  if  it  should  endure  one  whole  year  1,000 
marks,  and  if  for  a  less  time  or  a  greater  in  proportion,  so  that  no 
sheriff,  escheator  or  other  bailiff  or  minister  of  the  king  whatsoever 
should  by  reason  of  such  vacancy  meddle  with  the  keeping  thereof  or 
of  the  manors,  granges  or  other  property  or  goods  whatsoever  to  the 
abbey  belonging,  except  that  at  the  beginning  of  every  vacancy  the 
escheator  or  other  minister  of  the  king  for  the  time  being  should  take 
a  simple  seisin  and  at  once  depart  as  aforesaid. 

To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir  and  Berkshire.     Like 
order  (omitting  the  clause  which  orders  a  simple  seisin  and  withdrawal). 
The  like  to  John  Mattesford  escheator  in  Devon. 

July  21.  To  John  de  Sayville  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Upton, 
Stillyngflete  and  Kylwardley,  certain  lands  in  Aycoscoghsh  and  a 
a  sixth  part  of  the  manor  of  Baynton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
the  death  of  John  de  Grey  of  Retherfeld  knight,  delivering  to  Maud 
his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said 
manors  of  Upton  and  Stillyngflete  jointly  with  the  said  Maud  of  the 
gift  and  feoffment  of  Peter  de  Otryham  parson  of  Estclaydon  and 
William  de  Merston  parson  of  Samerton  for  their  lives,  and  by  fine 
levied  in  the  king's  court  likewise  held  the  manor  of  Kylwardley, 
the  lands  and  sixth  part  aforesaid  jointly  with  the  said  Maud  for  their 
lives,  and  that  the  premises  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.  Like  order, 
mutatis  mutandis,  concerning  a  fourth  part  of  the  manor  of  Stanlake  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
[John]  de  Grey  of  Retherfeld  knight  held  that  part  jointly  with  Maud 
his  wife  by  gift  of  Thomas  parson  of  Niwebury,  John  de  Baldynton, 
William  parson  of  Chalreye  and  Robert  atte  Mulle  chaplain  to  them 
and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  is  held  of  others  than 
the  king. 

To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to  deliver 
to  Bartholomew  de  Grey  knight,  son  of  John  de  Grey  of  Retherfeld, 
and  to  Philippa  his  wife  four  virgates  of  land  in  Estclaydon  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  said  John's  death,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken,  but  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further 
with  the  residue  of  the  manor  of  Estclaydon  and  the  manor  of 
Shobyndon  likewise  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  delivering  up  any 


49    EDWARD    III.  149 


1375.  Membram   2<>-~cout. 

issues  of  these  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator.  that  by  grant  of  Nicholas  Tudemersh,  Thomas 
Coubrngge  and  Walter  Yonge  the  said  John  at  his  death  held  f<»r  life 
the  said  four  virgates  as  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Estelaydon  by  knight 
service  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Peverel,  and  likewise  the 
residue  of  that  manor  and  the  manor  of  Shobyndon  of  others  than 
the  king,  with  remainder  to  the  said  Bartholomew  and  Philippa  and 
to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  homage  and 
fealty  of  the  said  Bartholomew,  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John, 
and  has  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

Membrane  25. 

March  25.  To  Thomas  de  Reynes  lieutenant  of  William  Latymere  constable 
Westminster,  of  Dovorre  castle.  Order  to  cause  twelve  whole  cloths  by  him 
found,  which  Bydan  de  Lospital  has  proved  to  be  his,  to  be  delivered 
up,  to  make  inquisition  concerning  eight  other  cloths  which  have  been 
eloigned,  to  whose  hands  they  have  come,  and  if  they  exist  to  cause 
them  to  be  arrested  in  whose  hands  soever  they  shall  be  found,  or  if  not 
the  true  price,  which  the  lieutenant  shall  lay  upon  them,  to  be  levied 
of  those  who  have  them  and  delivered  to  the  said  Bydan  ;  as  the 
lieutenant  has  certified  in  chancery  that  he  has  found  twelve  of  the 
cloths  which  the  said  Bydan  by  his  own  oath  and  by  sufficient  main- 
pernors of  the  city  of  Bayonne  has  proved  to  be  his,  that  the  proof 
seems  to  the  lieutenant  to  be  sufficient,  and  that  eight  cloths  are  in 
arrear  to  him,  which  were  wasted  and  sold  by  seamen  of  Romeney  and 
He  the. 

March  25.  To  William  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 
Westminster,  the  Cinque  Ports  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  stay  until  further 
order  payment  to  Richard  Benet  parson  of  the  parish  church  within 
Dovorre  castle  of  the  9  marks  which  on  12  November  in  the  38th  year  of 
the  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  him  in  aid  of  the  main- 
tenance of  his  estate  over  and  above  the  G  marks  yearly  which  he 
takes  of  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  castle,  to  be  taken  every  year 
by  him  and  his  successors  by  the  hands  of  the  constable  for  the  time 
being  at  Christmas,  Easter,  Midsummer  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  Richard  is  not  doing 
the  duty  of  his  office,  as  in  law  he  is  bound,  in  regard  to  the  cure  of 
souls  etc. 

March  17.  To  Thomas  Walssh  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  manor  at  Adloxton. 
three  virgates  of  land  and  ISd.  of  nut  of  freeholders  in  Carleton  Curly, 
and  16.9.  Sd.  of  like  rent  in  Somerby  which  were  of  William  Bakeluyt, 
delivering  up  any  isau.  \  thereof  taken;  as  lately  lor  particular  causes 
the  king  ordered -the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  under  seal  the 
manner  and  cause  wherefore  the  said  William's  lands  were  by  him 
taken  into  the  king's  hand,  the  description  and  yearly  value 
thereof  according  to  the  true  value  in  all  issues,  and  the  escheator 
certified   thai    a1     .mother  tune    the    king    Bent    him    a    writ    to    make 

inquisition  bo*  much  land  the  said  William  at  his  death  laid  m  chief 
as  u<-ii  iii  demesne  ai  in  service,  and  how  much  «»!  others,  who  was 
his  next  heir  of  blood  and  of  w  ha  I  md  that  he  thereupon  found  by 


150  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

inquisition  that  the  said  William  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief,  but 
it  was  by  that  inquisition  presented  that  he  died  seised  of  the  said  manor, 
value  60s.,  the  said  lands  value  33?.  id.  a  year,  and  of  the  said  rents, 
and  that  John  Mey  was  his  next  heir  of  blood,  which  inquisition 
the  escheator  returned  in  chancery  in  pursuance  of  the  said  writ, 
certifying  that  although  it  was  by  the  said  inquisition  presented 
that  the  said  John  was  next  heir  of  the  said  William's  blood,  he  the 
escheator  on  20  February  last  seized  the  premises  into  the  king's 
hand,  understanding  that  it  pertained  to  his  office  so  to  do  to  the 
king's  profit,  and  that  he  would  until  further  order  levy  to  the  king's 
use  any  issues  and  profits  thereof  arising  in  the  mean  time,  for  that 
he  saw  not  the  said  John,  and  knew  not  whether  he  was  yet  alive  or  no  ; 
and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 

April  11.  To  Ralph  de  Tresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of  Angos  and  Maud  his  wife  the  advowson 
of  Skirbek  church,  if  the  same  was  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Anthony  de  Lucy  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Joan  his 
daughter  and  heir  and  is  yet  in  the  kind's  hand  for  that  cause  ;  as 
it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Anthony  died  seised  of  no  lands  in  that  county,  for  that  he  aliened 
the  manor  and  advowson  of  Skirbek  and  all  other  his  lands  with  the 
knights'  fees  and  advowsons  which  he  had  therein  to  Richard  de 
Askeby  parson  of  Werkyngton,  William  de  Stodfold  parson  of  Deen 
and  Robert  de  Evenwode  parson  of  Angreham  in  fee  simple,  that 
after  his  death  the  said  Joan  was  his  heir,  being  within  age  and  in  the 
king's  wardship  by  reason  of  other  lands  in  Cumberland  held  in  chief, 
that  claiming  the  presentation  to  Skirbek  church  in  right  of  the  said 
heir  the  king  presented  John  de  Saxton  his  clerk  to  the  same,  being 
void  during  her  nonage,  that  he  was  at  the  king's  presentation  admitted 
by  the  bishop  of  Lincoln,  and  was  instituted  therein,  that  the  said 
Joan  died  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  that  the  said 
Maud  being  sister  of  the  said  Anthony  is  aunt  of  the  said  Joan  and 
next  heir  of  her  said  brother,  and  of  the  age  of  30  years  ;  and  after 
the  said  Richard  de  Askeby  and  Robert  de  Evenwode  died,  and  the 
said  William  de  Stodfold  survived,  and  gave  the  said  manor  and 
advowson  and  other  lands  with  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  to 
the  said  earl  and  Maud  and  to  the  said  Maud's  heirs,  and  after 
released  to  them  all  his  right  in  the  premises,  in  their  possession  being  ; 
and  on  6  November  in  the  43rd  year  of  his  reign  the  king  respited 
the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  earl  due  by  reason  of  issue  between 
him  and  the  said  Maud  begotten,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given 
to  them  of  the  said  Anthony's  lands  which  came  to  the  king's  hands 
as  above  rehearsed. 

April  12.  To  Walter  Perle  and  David  Hanemere  justices  of  assize  in 
Westminster.  Oxfordshire.  Order,  if  any  such  assizes  as  hereinafter  mentioned 
are  before  them  arraigned  against  John  Dodeford  now  prior  of  St. 
Frideswide  Oxford,  to  hold  deliberation  and  behave  so  circumspectly 
in  that  behalf  that  nought  shall  arise  which  may  tend  to  the  prejudice 
of  the  king's  right  in  the  patronage  of  that  priory,  the  diminution 
of  chantries  and  other  works  of  piety  established  of  old  time  for  the 
souls  of  the  king's  forefathers,  or  to  the  wrong  or  oppression  of  the 
said  house  ;    as  upon  information  received  that  by  lack  of  care  and 


49    EDWARD    III. 


151 


1375. 


Membrane  25 — cont. 


prudent  ruling  of  the  priors  and  other  presidents,  by  divers  alienations 
of  lands  and  possessions  to  divers  persons  in  fee,  for  life  and  other* 
by  numberless  grants  of  corrodies,  pensions  and  yearly  rents  by  them 
made,  and  by  removal  of  books,  ornaments,  jewels  and  other  goods 
the  property  of  the  prior}-  by  fraud  and  collusion  of  certain  therein, 
the  said  priory,  which  is  of  the  foundation  of  the  king's  forefathers 
and  of  the  king's  patronage,  is  so  much  fallen  that  the  lands  and 
possessions  thereof  remaining  suffice  not  for  maintenance  of  the  canons 
there  serving,  whereby  divine  worship  is  diminished,  other  works 
of  piety  established  for  the  king,  his  forefathers  and  for  other 
benefactors  are  withdrawn,  and  what  is  worse  there  is  fear  that  the 
said  canons  are  like  to  be  dispersed  if  a  speedy  reined}'  be  not  applied, 
the  king  desiring  the  relief  of  the  priory  on  26  February  last 
by  letters  patent  appointed  Richard  de  Treton,  John  de  Honyton 
and  Thomas  de  Houton  or  two  of  them  to  make  inquisition  by 
true  men  of  the  county  and  certify  touching  the  premises  ;  and 
the  king  is  informed  that  great  number  of  assizes  of  novel 
disseisin  touching  corrodies  and  pensions  to  be  taken  of  the  said  house 
are  before  the  said  justices  arraigned  against  the  said  now  prior, 
wherein  if  they  were  to  proceed  the  evils  aforesaid  might  easily  arise, 
especially  since  full  inquisition  is  made  upon  the  said  articles,  and  the 
defects  and  hurts  suffered  by  the  priory  yet  remain  uncorrected  by 
the  king  and  council. 

June  25.  To  the  abbot  of  Alnewyk.     Strict  order  upon  his  allegiance  and 

Westminster,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  forbidding  him  by  colour  of  any  command 
to  him  now  or  hereafter  addressed  by  the  abbot  superior  of  the 
Premonstratensian  order  of  France  or  by  the  abbot  of  Salseed  of 
Scotland  to  submit  himself  or  be  intendant  or  obedient  to  the  abbot 
of  Salseed  or  his  commissaries,  or  to  any  commands  in  their  visitations, 
so  behaving  that  the  king  shall  have  no  matter  for  wrath  against  him 
as  one  who  violates  the  rights  of  the  crown  ;  as  the  king  lias  heard 
how  that  the  said  superior  has  appointed  the  abbot  of  Salseed  shortly 
to  visit  the  abbey  of  Alnewyk  in  England,  the  abbot  and  canons  there, 
and  to  do  other  things  unheard  of,  and  the  king  is  aware  that  if  these 
things  were  suffered  grave  prejudice  would  arise  to  him  and  to  the 
crown,  especially  as  in  times  past  such  things  were  never  suffered  to 
be  done  by  an  enemy  or  at  his  command  within  the  king's  power  or 
realm,  and  it  is  presumed  that  hereby  the  abbey  is  like  to  be  charged 
with  grievous  and  unwonted  imposts,  and  money  to  be  carried 
over  from  England  to  his  enemies,  which  the  king  will  not  and  ought 
not  to  endure. 

Vacated,  because  upon  the  Close  Roll  of  last  year. 

June  2.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows,  Justices  a]. pointed  to  hold 

Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.     Order  to  view  and  examine   the   record  and 

process  herewith  sent  under  seal,  to  summon  before  them  the  prior 

of  Lantony  Prima  in  Wales  and  Robert  de  Sutton  clerk  and  any  other 

who  ought  to  be  summoned,  to  hear  the  reasons  and  allegations  to 

be  set  forth  as  well  for  the  king  as  for  the  Baid  prior,  and  t. 

any  erron  therein  to  lie  in  due  manner  corrected  <>n  either  party, 

proceeding  as  of  right  ought,  to   be  done  according  to   the   law    and 
custom    of    England;    as    lately    at    the    suit    of    John    de    Clone, 
sometime  prior  of  Lantony  aforesaid  by   his  petition   in   parliament 


152  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

presented  before  the  king  and  council,  averring  that  by  a  judgment 
rendered  in  error  in  the  Common  Bench  of  Dublin  against  John 
Rufford  his  predecessor  (then  deceased)  the  king  [recovered]  his 
presentation  to  the  church  of  Archath,  which  was  appropriated  to  the 
said  prior  and  convent  time  out  of  mind,  and  presented  thereto 
William  de  Bardesby,  who  at  the  king's  presentation  was  instituted 
and  inducted,  and  praying  for  correction  of  the  errors  in  that  record 
and  process  and  in  the  rendering  of  that  judgment,  the  king  caused 
the  same  to  come  before  him  in  England,  and  the  record  and  process 
being  before  the  king  viewed  and  examined  and  the  errors  appointed 
therein  being  heard  and  debated,  it  was  determined  that  the  said 
judgment  should  be  annulled  and  that  the  said  prior  should  have  a 
writ  to  the  sheriff  to  put  him  in  seisin  of  the  said  advowson  ;  and  after 
in  the  parliament  at  Westminster  in  the  twelfth  year  of  the  reign 
it  was  by  the  said  prior  averred  that  after  the  annulment  aforesaid 
the  justiciary  of  Ireland  presented  John  de  Bardesby  clerk,  to  the 
said  church,  being  void  by  the  resignation  of  William  de  Bardesby, 
and  the  king  commanded  the  justiciary  to  revoke  any  presentation  so 
made  by  him  in  the  king's  name  or  by  others,  suffering  the  then  prior 
to  have  such  estate  in  the  said  advowson  as  his  predecessor  had  before 
the  rendering  of  the  said  erroneous  judgment,  as  appears  as  well  by 
an  exemplification  of  the  said  record  and  process  and  by  the  prior's 
petition  in  parliament  endorsed  as  by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of 
chancery  ;  and  after  the  prior  petitioned  the  king  to  revoke  the 
presentation  of  the  said  Robert  de  Sutton  under  the  seal  used  in  Ireland, 
which  presentation  he  procured  by  averring  that  the  right  of  pre- 
sentation belonged  to  the  king  by  colour  of  the  presentation  of  John 
de  Bardesby,  after  revoked  as  aforesaid,  and  to  stay  a  plea  in  the 
court  of  Ireland  wherein  the  said  prior  was  at  the  king's  suit  impleaded 
by  writ  of  quare  impedit,  wherefore  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  of 
Meath  in  Ireland  to  give  notice  to  the  said  Robert  to  be  in  chancery 
in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  his 
presentation  ought  not  to  be  revoked ;  at  which  day  the  said 
Robert  appeared,  and  alleged  for  the  king  that  in  the  court 
of  Ireland  the  king  recovered  by  quare  impedit  the  presentation 
to  the  said  church,  and  that  by  virtue  of  that  recovery  he  the 
said  Robert  obtained  possession  of  the  said  church,  wherefore  the 
king  caused  the  record  and  process  of  that  cause  in  the  court  of 
Ireland  with  all  things  affecting  the  same  to  come  before  him  in  the 
chancery  of  England  there  to  be  viewed  and  examined  as  lawful 
was  ;  and  on  behalf  of  the  said  prior  it  is  alleged  that  there  are  great 
number  of  errors  in  that  record  and  process. 

July  14.  To  Roger  Keterych  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  cause  Peter  son 
Westminster,  and  heir  of  Walter  Burre  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of 
the  honour  of  Reylegh  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  Peter's 
nonage  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king 
has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30574.] 

Membrane  24. 

Sept.  20.        To  Walter  Cyfrewast  escheator  in  Dorset.     Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  by  reason  of  this  vacancy  with  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of 


49    EDWARD    III.  153 


1375.  Membrane  24 — cont. 

Salisbury,  now  void  by  the  death  of  Robert  the  last  bishop,  or  with 
any  property  to  the  same  belonging,  but  in  the  dean's  absence  to 
suffer  the  chapter  of  St.  .Mary  Salisbury  freely  without  Let  to  dispose 
of  the  said  temporalities,  delivering  to  the  chapter  anything  thereof 
taken  by  him  since  the  bishop's  death,  saving  to  the  king  daring  this 
vacancy  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  churches  to  the  bishopric 
belonging,  the  temporal  escheats  which  shall  fall  in,  and  the  keeping  of 
Shirburne  castle  and  of  any  lands  acquired  by  the  bishop  or  his 
predecessors  since  19  December  11  Edward  II;  as  on  that  day  the 
late  king  by  letters  patent,  by  the  now  king  confirmed,  granted  that 
at  every  vacancy  of  the  said  bishopric  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the 
said  church  and  their  successors  should  have  the  keeping  of  the 
bishopric  and  of  all  temporalities,  property  and  goods  thereto 
belonging  as  fully  as  in  any  times  past  the  bishops  had  when  the 
see  was  filled  or  as  the  king  might  or  ought  to  have  had  if  the  keeping 
were  in  his  hands,  so  that  they  should  have  free  administration  and 
disposal  of  the  said  temporalities,  goods  and  property  as  they  should 
see  best,  taking  all  manner  of  emoluments,  saving  to  the  king  the 
knights'  fees  held  of  the  bishopric,  and  the  advowsons  of  churches 
when  they  should  fall  in  during  a  vacancy,  so  that  all  rents  and  yearly 
services  of  such  fees  arising  during  vacancies  should  remain  to  the 
dean  and  chapter,  and  saving  to  the  king  escheats  which  should  then 
fall  in,  which  escheats  at  the  end  of  every  vacancy,  namely  after  the 
fealty  of  the  bishop  elect  and  confirmed  or  appointed,  should  without 
let  or  trouble  of  the  king  or  his  heirs  remain  to  the  bishop  and  to  his 
successors,  rendering  to  the  king  for  every  vacancy  if  enduring  one 
whole  year  1,021  J.  7s.  lid.  whereat  the  bishopric  is  yearly  taxed, 
and  for  a  greater  or  a  less  time  in  proportion,  so  that  no  escheator, 
sheriff  or  other  bailiff  or  minister  of  the  king  should  by  reason  of  a 
vacancy  meddle  with  the  keeping  of  the  bishopric,  the  manors  or  other 
property  or  goods  thereto  belonging,  except  that  in  the  beginning  of 
every  vacancy  the  escheator  or  other  minister  of  the  king  for  the 
time  being  should  in  name  of  the  king's  lordship  take  a  simple  seisin 
within  some  manor  of  the  bishopric  and  forthwith  depart  without 
taking  fealty  or  acknowledgment  of  any  tenant  of  the  bishopric  or 
taking  or  carrying  aught  away,  so  that  by  reason  of  such  seisin  he 
should  not  make  his  abode  there  longer  than  one  day  nor  leave  any 
substitute  in  his  room,  saving  to  the  king  the  keeping  of  any  lands  or 
rents  acquired  by  the  bishop  in  fee  after  the  aforesaid  date,  to  be  kept 
during  vacancies  by  the  escheators  or  other  his  ministers,  so  that 
none  of  them  should  by  reason  thereof  enter  the  bishopric  or  meddle 
therewith  or  with  aught  thereto  pertaining  save  as  aforesaid. 

The  like,  omitting  the  clause  relating  to  Shirburne  castle,  to  the 
following  : 

William  de  Walleworth  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 
therein. 

Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir  and   Berkshire. 

Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Surrey  and  Middlesex. 

Membrane  23. 

July  6.         To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.    Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to   meddle   further   with   the   manors   of 

Lavyngton,   Kynthorp   and    Withcalle   taken    into   the    king's    hand 


154 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375. 


Membrane  23 — cont. 


by  the  death  of  William  brother  of  Nicholas  de  Cantilupo,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  Nicholas  de  Cantilupo  knight  the  grand- 
father enfeoffed  Thomas  Neumarche  knight,  John  Bussy  and  Hugh 
Cressy  jointlj'  of  the  said  manors,  which  are  held  of  others  than  the 
king,  that  the  said  feoffees  gave  the  same  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  the 
said  Nicholas  for  life  with  remainder  to  Nicholas  son  of  William  son 
of  the  said  Nicholas  the  grandfather  (both  now  deceased)  and  to  the 
heirs  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  William  brother 
of  the  said  Nicholas  the  grandson  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body, 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said 
Nicholas  the  grandfather,  and  that  the  same  ought  by  the  form  of  the 
gift  to  remain  to  William  de  Cantilupo  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
Nicholas  the  grandfather  for  that  the  said  Nicholas  son  of  William 
and  the  said  William  his  brother  are  dead  without  issue. 

To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Like  order,  mutatis 
mutandis,  concerning  the  manor  of  Ambresbury  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  Cantilupo  the  younger ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas 
de  Neumarchee  knight,  John  de  Bussy  and  Hugh  de  Cressy  held  the 
said  manor  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  tail  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his 
body,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  right  heirs  of 
Nicholas  de  Cantilupo  knight  his  grandfather,  that  William  de 
Cantilupo  knight  is  next  heir  of  the  said  Nicholas  the  grandfather  and 
of  full  age,  and  that  the  said  manor  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Aug.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Leycester.     Order  at  his  peril  to  cause  as  many 

Yardley.  men  of  that  county  as  need  be  to  come  thence  in  order  to  make  a 
sufficient  stable  for  the  king's  deer  in  his  park  of  Ridlyngton  and 
bailiwick  of  Beaumond  against  the  king's  coming,  so  that  they  be 
there  at  his  coming  without  difficulty,  and  that  the  king's  sport  be 
not  hindered  by  neglect  of  the  sheriff  or  lack  of  such  men  ;  as  the 
king  is  about  to  come  shortly  to  his  forest  of  Roteland  for  sport  there 
in  the  present  hunting  season. 


Aug.  9.  To  the  steward  and  marshals  of  the  king's  household.    Order  to  be 

Yardley.  advised  and  behave  so  circumspectly  in  the  taking  of  an  inquisition  which 
they  are  purposing  to  take  in  a  cause  now  pending  without  the  king's 
writ  between  John  Giles  of  Thyndon  and  John  Symondeson  and  John 
Cole  of  Broghton  co.Norhampton  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  20  marks, 
that  nought  be  attempted  to  the  prejudice  of  either  party  contrary  to 
justice  or  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the  realm  ;  as  b}^  the  grievous 
complaint  of  the  defendants  it  is  shewn  the  king  that,  although  the 
contract  and  action  for  debt  arose  at  the  town  of  Broghton  co. 
Norhampton,  which  is  within  the  verge  of  the  king's  household,  the 
steward  and  marshals  are  purposing  to  take  that  inquisition  of  the 
venue  of  Broghton  co.  Bukingham,  which  is  without  the  verge,  to 
the  defendants'  prejudice  and  contrary  to  the  law  and  custom  aforesaid  ; 
and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  nought  be  done  derogatory  to  the  common 
law. 


49    EDWARD    III.  155 


1375.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

Aug.  11.  To  John  Karnels  escheator  in  Xorhamptonshire.     Order  to  deliver 

Drayton,  the  manor  of  Duston  in  dower  to  Maud  wno  was  wife  of  John  de  Grey 
of  Retherfeld  tenant  in  chief,  of  whom  the  kiiiLr  lias  commanded  an 
oath  to  be  taken  by  the  abbot  of  Redyng  that  she  will  not  many 
without  the  king's  licence  ;  as  by  assent  of  Bartholomew  de  Grey  knight . 
son  and  heir  of  the  said  John,  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  in  dowel 
of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death  the  said  manor,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Somcrton  co.  Oxford 
with  the  advowson,  to  present  every  other  turn,  and  a  yearly  rent  of 
16  marks  to  be  taken  at  Martinmas  and  Whitsuntide  by  even  portions 
of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Askham  co.  York. 

The  like  to  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire,  to  deliver  in 
dower  to  the  said  Maud  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Somerton  with  the 
advowson  as  aforesaid. 

The  like  to  John  Sayvylle  escheator  in  Yorkshire  to  deliver  to  her 
the  said  yearly  rent  to  be  taken  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Askham. 

July  28.  To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Cumber- 
ton  called  '  Burdeleysmaner,'  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Gilbert  de  la  Chaumbre,  delivering  up  any 
issues  thereof  taken;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in 
that  county  the  wardship  whereof  ought  at  present  to  pertain  to  the 
king,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  others  than  the  king. 

June  28.  To  John  Carnell'  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  William  Corbet,  son  of  Elizabeth  sister  of  Thomas  Baa  and  brother 
and  heir  of  John  son  of  William  Corbet  tenant  in  chief,  a  toft,  5k 
virgates  of  land  and  3s.  5d.  of  rent  in  Bradden  and  a  messuage,  one 
carucate  of  land  and  10  acres  of  underwood  in  Sewell  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas  and  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  the  said  William  brother  of  John  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  at  his  command  by  Nicholas  Seymour  late  escheator, 
that  Thomas  Baa  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in 
his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  premises  of  others 
than  the  king,  and  that  the  said  William  brother  of  John  is  his  cousin 
and  next  heir,  being  lately  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship  but 
now  of  full  age  ;  and  on  20  May  last  the  said  William's  age  being 
proved  the  king  took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded  livery  to 
be  given  him  of  the  lands  of  the  said  John  his  father  («*c). 

Aug.  19.  To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  take  the 

Nassington.   fealty  of  Amandus  Sourdevale  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule 
enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  him  a  mi  a  dovecot,  <'.()  acres  of 

land  and  110.9.  Ad.  of  rent  in  Threkyngham  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  .Vines  daughter  of  Agnee  de  Sourdevale,  together 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  but  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and 
meddle  no  further  with  divers  other  lands  held  of  others  than  t In- 
king, delivering  to  the  said  Amandus  any  Issues  of  these  taken  ;    as 

the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at. 
her  death  the  said  Agnes  the  daughter  held  no  lands  in  that  count}  in 

chief  nor  of  others  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  sen  ice,  but  held  the 
premises  in  fee  tail  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Henry  de  Bello  Mont, 


loT! 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

tenant  in  chief,  being  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship, 
and  divers  other  lands  likewise  of  others  than  the  king  by  gift  and 
feoffment  of  Thomas  vicar  of  Threkyngham  and  Hugh  atte  Halle  to 
John  Sourdevalc  and  Agnes  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies 
of  all  the  premises  by  name  of  the  manor  of  Threkyngham,  with  re- 
mainder for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Amandus  (yet  living) 
father  of  the  said  John  and  to  his  heirs,  and  that  the  same  ought 
by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to  the  said  Amandus  for  that  the  said 
John,  Agnes  his  wife  and  Agnes  their  daughter  and  heir  are  dead 
without  issue. 

Aug.  31.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Hertfordshire.  Order  to  assign 
Oakham,  dower  of  her  husband's  lands,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 
to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Edward  de  Kendale  knight  tenant  in 
chief,  of  whom  the  king  has  commanded  an  oath  to  be  taken  by 
William  Croyser  knight  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's 
licence,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 


Membrane  22. 

Oct.  10.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Frende,  who  is  dead. 

Oct.  12.  To  Walter  Cifrewast  escheator  in  Dorset.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  tenement  and  appur- 
tenances in  Wymborne  Mynstre,  delivering  to  Richard  Alayn  his 
brother  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  Warin  Aleyn  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  tenement  was  taken  into  his  hand  by  reason  of  the  idiocy 
of  the  said  Warin  and  so  is  in  his  hand,  that  the  same  is  held  of 
others  than  the  king,  and  that  the  said  Richard  is  next  heir  of  the 
said  Warin  and  of  full  age. 

Oct.  17.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Messenden,  who  is  dead. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  keepers  or  farmers  and  tenants  of  the  king's  manor  of  Hedyng- 

Westminster.  ton,  his  hundred  of  Bolyngdon,  and  his  hundred  beyond  the  northward 
gate  of  the  town  of  Oxford  for  the  time  being.  Writ  de  intendendo, 
directing  them  of  their  fee  farm  to  pay  to  John  de  Beverle  the  king's 
esquire  and  Amice  his  wife  as  well  the  arrears  before  9  April  last  of  27/. 
yearly  as  of  55  (sic)  yearly  since  that  date,  and  henceforward  to  pay  them 
81/.  a  year,  taking  their  acquittance ;  as  on  30  January  in  the  46th  year 
of  his  reign  for  particular  causes  therein  expressed  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  to  the  said  John  and  Amice  27/.  to  be  so  taken  every 
year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  by  the  hands  of 
Richard  Dammory  late  farmer  of  the  said  manor  and  hundreds  and 
of  the  king's  heirs  or  other  farmers  thereof  for  their  lives  or  until 
he  should  take  other  order  for  their  estate  ;  and  on  9  April  last,  the 
said  Richard  being  dead,  the  king  granted  to  the  said  John,  over  and 
above  the  27/.  aforesaid,  the  residue  of  the  said  fee  farm  which  is 
extended  at  81/.  a  year,  namely  54/.  a  year,  to  be  taken  every  year  by  the 
hands  of  the  farmers  or  tenants  of  the  said  manor  and  hundreds  during 
the  said  John's  life  or  until  the  king  should  take  other  order  for  his 


49    EDWARD    III. 


157 


1375.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

estate,  with  reversion  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  of  the  said  542.  a  year 
after  the  said  John's  death,  and  of  the  said  27/.  a  year  after  the  deaths 
of  the  said  John  and  Amice. 
El  erat  patens. 

Membrane  21. 

Sept.  6.  To  Roger  Keterich  escheator  in  Hertfordshire.     Older  to  deliver 

Rockingham,  to  John  son  of  John  Argentem  the  manors  of  Great  Wylmundelee 
and  Little  Wylmundelee  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Mautravers  the  elder,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator.  that  the  said  Agnes  at  her  death  held  no  land  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee.  but  held  the  manor  of  Great 
Wylmundele  in  chief  by  the  serjeanty  of  serving  of  one  cup  at  the 
king's  coronation  with  the  citizens  of  London,  and  the  manor  of  Little 
Wylmundele  likewise  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Albemarle  by 
service  of  rendering  20s.  a  year  tow  aids  the  ward  of  Craven, and  that  the 
said  John  Dargentem,  son  of  John  Dargentem  sometime  her  husband, 
is  her  said  husband's  next  heir  and  of  full  age  ;  and  on  6  March  in 
the  12th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  took  the  homage  of  the  said  John, 
being  son  and  heir  of  John  Dargentem  who  was  tenant  in  chief  of  the  late 
king,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Order  not  to 
meddle  further  with  a  manor  in  Meldeburne  called  the  Argentems 
with  appurtenances  in  Meldeburne  and  Melreth  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  b}'  the  death  of  the  said  Agnes,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  etc.  (as  above)  that  she  held  the  said 
manor  for  life,  in  name  of  dower  after  the  death  of  John  Dargentem 
her  first  husband,  of  William  Latymere  by  knight  service  and  by  the 
service  of  5s.  a  year,  and  that  John  Dargentem  knight  son  of  John 
etc.  (as  above). 

Sept.  5.  To  Richard  de  Waterden  escheator  in  Norffolk.     Order  to  deliver 

Rockingham,  to  John  fitz  Johan  the  manor  of  Skulton  called  Burdeleys.  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Gilbert  de  la 
Chaumbre,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  to  hold  for  his 
life  by  the  courtesy  of  England  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  her  death  the  said  Joan  held  the  said 
manor  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  in  chief  by  the  service  of  being  at  the 
king's  coronation  and  doing  the  office  of  lardenar,  and  that  the  said 
John,  who  took  her  to  wife,  ought  to  hold  the  same  for  his  life  by  the 
courtesy  l>y  reason  of  issue  between  them  begotten  ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  his  fealty. 

Sept.  17.        To  Thomas  Walssh  escheator  in  Warwickshire.     Order  to  delivei  to 

Westminster.  John  de  Beauchamp  of  Holt  and  .loan  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of 

Robert  leFut  tenant  by  knighl  service  of  the  heir  of  John  Lenveysy 

t'  nant   in  chief,  lately  within  age  and   in  the  king's  wardship,  all   (In- 
lands BO  held   by  her  said  father'  which  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand 

by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  .Joan-  nonage     aa  she  baa 
proved  her  age  before  the  escheator. 

To   Oliver  de    llarnhain   esoheatoi   m   Oxfordshire.     Like  order; 

id  .loan  has  |>ro\ed  In  l  age  before  Thomas  \\al>-.h. 


i:» 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375,  Membrane  21 — cont. 

Sept.  24.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  when  required  by 
Westminster.  William  Strete  the  king's  serjeant  his  butler,  to  admit  Henry  de  Morton, 
whom  by  appointment  of  the  king  he  has  made  his  substitute,  to 
execute  in  his  stead  the  office  of  coroner  in  the  city  of  London,  taking 
nevertheless  of  the  said  Henry  an  oath  that  he  will  behave  well  and 
truly  therein  ;  as  by  reason  of  divers  the  king's  business  whereon  at 
the  king's  command  he  is  engaged  in  divers  parts  of  England,  the 
said  William,  to  whom  that  office  pertains,  has  no  leisure  to  exercise 
the  same  in  person  in  the  said  city.  By  bill  of  the  king's  butler. 

Sept.  25.  To  Richard  Waterden  escheator  in  Suffolk  and  Norffolk.  Order  to 
Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of 
Wyset  co.  Suffolk  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands  in  Norffolk 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of 
John  de  Nerford  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  by  the  escheator  taken 
at  his  command,  that  the  said  Agnes  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in 
chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  for  life  of  the 
king  as  of  the  honour  of  Richemund  by  the  service  of  the  fourth  part 
of  one  knight's  fee,  and  divers  manors  and  lands  in  Noiffolk  of  others 
than  the  king,  and  that  Margaret  daughter  of  John  de  Nerford  son  of 
Thomas  de  Nerford  knight  brother  of  the  said  John  de  Nerford  knight, 
whom  John  Brewes  has  taken  to  wife,  is  cousin  and  next  heir  of  John 
de  Nerford  knight  and  of  full  age  ;  and  on  20  July  in  the  46th  year 
of  his  reign  the  king  granted  the  said  honour  to  his  son  John  duke 
of  Brittany. 

Sept.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay  to 
Westminster.  John  de  Luffewyk  late  keeper  of  the  king's  park  of  Brixstoke  the 
arrears  since  9  September  last  of  6d.  a  day,  and  henceforth  to  pay 
him  that  daily  sum  every  year  during  his  life,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 
as  on  that  day  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the 
said  John  for  his  good  service  long  time  rendered,  and  for  that  he 
is  now  too  infirm  and  aged  to  toil  with  advantage  in  that  service,  6d. 
a  day  for  his  maintenance  to  be  taken  for  life  of  the  issues  of  that 
county  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  1.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Oxford.     Order,  according 

Westminster,  to  the  liberties  granted  them  by  charters  of  former  kings  and  the 

king's  confirmation  thereof,  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

of  Roger  Chichestre  late  coroner  of  that  town,  who  is  elected  bailiff 

thereof  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Membrane  20. 

Oct.  4.  To  John  Sergeaunt  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  of  Maud  who  was  wife  of  John  fitz  Nicol  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that 
she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of 
Thomas  his  cousin  and  heir,  if  being  warned  he  will  attend,  to  assign 
her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Oct.  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Geoffrey  Aylewyn,  who  is  blind  and  aged. 


49    EDWARD    III. 


150 


1375.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

Oct.  10.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Cauntelo  de  Marlebergh,  who  is  dead. 

Oct.  12.  To  Roger  de  la  Lee  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  cause    Robert 

Westminster.  Ferrers  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  and  one  oarucate  of  land  in 
Neweton  held  by  Thomas  Moid  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his 
hand,  that  the  said  Thomas  held  them  of  the  said  Robert  thai  for 
three  years  past  the  escheators  have  answered  at  the  exchequer  for  t he- 
issues  thereof,  and  that  Edmund  de  Borton  late  escheator  had  the 
year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the  king 
for  the  same. 

Oct.  18.  To   Walter   Cyfrewast   escheator   in   Somerset.     Order  to   remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Horcy, 
a  messuage,  one  carucate  of  land  6  acres  of  meadow  in  Swyndon,  and 
66s.  8d.  of  rent  issuing  from  a  messuage  and  one  carucate  of  land  in 
Postrigge  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  Horcy, 
delivering  to  Eleanor  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John 
at  his  death  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Eleanor  to  them 
and  the  heiis  of  their  bodies,  and  the  premises  in  Swyndon,  and  the 
said  rent  issuing  from  the  premises  in  Postrigge  now  held  for  life  by 
Robert  Crosse  parson  of  Spaxton  and  Robert  Crosse  the  younger  by  the 
rent  above  mentioned  for  their  lives,  also  the  reversion  of  the  last 
mentioned  premises,  by  gift  of  Thomas  atte  Rewe  and  others,  and 
that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Oct.  16.  To   WTalter  Cyfrewast  escheator  in   Somerset.     Order  to   take  of 

Westminster.  Eleanor  who  was  wife  of  John  Horcy  tenant  in   chief  an  oath    that 

she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower 

of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 

sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Sept.  30.  To  the  farmers,  keepers  or  bailiffs  of  the  king's  manors  of  Penreth 
Westminster,  and  Soureb}'  co.  Cumberland  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  farm  or 
issues  of  those  manors  to  pay  to  John  de  Neville  steward  of  the  king's 
household  for  life  100/.  yearly  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  the  king  by  Letters  patent  has 
granted  to  the  said  John  for  his  good  service  100/.  a  year  to  be  so 
taken  for  his  life  or  until  the  king  shall  take  other  order  for  his  estate. 
El  erat  patens. 

Membrane  19. 
Sept.  24.        To  Richard  Waterden  escheator  in  Xorffolk  and  Suffolk.    Order  to 

Westminster,  take  the  fealty  of  .Miehael  atte  Pool  kniL'ht  according  to  the  form  of 
B  Schedule  enclosed,  to  take  of  him  and  katheiine  his  wife  security   for 

payment  at  the  exchequer  of  their  relief  for  <;'•»  acres  of  pasture  in 
wyngefeld  co.  Suffolk,  and  to  cause  them  to  have  seisin  of  the  said 

pasture  taken  into  the  king's  hand   by  the  death  of   Eleanor  who  was 

wife  of  .John  de  Wyngefeld  knight,  but  no!  to  meddle  further  with 
divers  other  ma  nor-  and  lands  m  those  counties  likewi  i  taken  into  the 

king's  hand,  delivering  up  ail  I  those  taken      M  the  king  kUM 


160  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  19 — cent. 

learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Eleanor 
at  her  deatli  held  the  said  pasture  in  chief  by  the  service  of  two  white 
doves  payable  yearly,  and  divers  manors  and  lands  in  those  counties 
of  others  than  the  king,  and  that  the  said  Katherine  her  daughter 
is  her  next  heir  and  of  full  age. 

Vacated,  because  upon  the  Fine  Boll  for  this  year. 

Sept.  28.  To  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Worcester  for  the  time  being.  Order 
Westminster,  to  pay  to  John  de  Beauchamp  the  king's  esquire  the  arrears  since  12 
August  last  of  20/.  a  year,  and  henceforth  to  pay  him  that  yearly  sum 
for  life  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions,  taking  his  acquit- 
tance ;  as  lately  by  letters  patent  under  the  great  seal  the  king  granted 
the  said  John  for  keeping  the  castle  of  Bruggenorth  6d.  a  day  of  the 
issues  of  the  county  of  Salop  to  be  taken  for  life  at  the  hands  of  the 
sheriff,  and  by  other  letters  patent  granted  him  for  his  good  service 
10  marks  a  year  so  long  as  he  should  abide  in  the  king's  household  and 
10/.  a  year  after  he  should  depart  thence  with  the  king's  leave,  to  be 
taken  at  the  exchequer  during  his  life  or  until  the  king  should  take 
other  order  for  his  estate  ;  and  after  on  12  August  last,  at  the  said 
John's  petition  and  for  that  he  gave  up  the  said  letters  patent  in 
chancery  to  be  cancelled,  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent 
to  the  said  John  as  well  in  recompense  for  the  6c/.  a  day  as  for  his 
service  aforesaid  20/.  a  year  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  of  the  farm  of 
the  said  city  during  his  life  or  until  the  king  should  take  other  order 
for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Sept.  6.  To  the  prior  of  Worcester,  being  guardian  of  the  spirituality  of  the 

Westminster,  bishopric  of  Worcester  during  the  vacancy  of  the  see.  Order  if 
the  facts  be  as  hereinafter  mentioned,  to  release  the  sequestration 
of  the  goods  and  chattels  of  Robert  Idebury  parson  of  Twenyngge, 
lest  the  king  have  matter  for  wrath  against  the  prior  as  one  who 
impugns  the  rights  of  the  crown  ;  as  according  to  the  law  and  custom 
of  England  heretofore  observed  and  approved  the  goods  and  chattels 
of  outlaws  pertain  as  forfeit  to  the  king,  and  have  been  used  so  to 
do  time  out  of  mind  ;  and  although  John  Sergeant  his  escheator 
in  Gloucestershire  seized  into  the  king's  hand  divers  goods  and  chattels 
of  the  said  parson  appraised  at  10  marks,  for  that  he  found  by  in- 
quisition, before  him  taken  of  his  office,  that  the  said  parson  was 
outlawed  in  that  county  for  divers  felonies  and  trespasses,  the  said 
prior  has  caused  the  same  to  be  sequestrated  into  his  hands,  as  the 
king  has  learned  ;  and  the  king  will  not  endure  such  things  to  the 
prejudice  of  himself  and  of  the  crown. 

Oct.  12.  To  Thomas  Waryner.     Writ  de  intendendo,  directing  him  to  cause 

Westminster.  10  marks  lOd.  for  Michaelmas  term  last  to  be  paid  to  John  atte  Welde 
and  William  Gervays,  executors  of  Robert  de  Woubourne  one  of  the 
tellers  of  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer,  and  20  marks  20d.  henceforward 
every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  until  the  lawful 
age  of  the  heir  of  Thomas  de  Overton  tenant  in  chief,  if  Thomas  Waryner 
shall  so  long  have  the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  his  lands  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  heir's  nonage,  taking 
the  executors'  acquittance  ;  as  lately  the  king  granted  to  the  said 
Robert  100s,  a  year  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 


49    EDWARD    III.  1G1 


1375.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

portions  of  the  issues  of  Bedfordshire  and  Bukinghainshire  by  the 
hands  of  the  sheriff  all  his  life  or  until  the  king  ^tould  take  other 
order  for  his  estate  ;  and  on  1  September  in  the  40th  year  of  his  reign, 
in  recompense  for  that  Bum  and  for  that  he  gave  up  the  letters  patent 
concerning  the  same  in  chancery  to  be  cancelled,  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  to  the  said  Robert  the  20  marks  20J.  which  Thomas 
Waryner  is  bound  yearly  to  pay  at  the  exchequer  for  the  wardship 
aforesaid,  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  by  his  hands  or  the  hands  of  another 
guardian  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  18.  To  Roger  atte  Lee  escheator  in  Staffordshire.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  two  parts  of  the  manors 
of  Weston  under  Luseyord  and  Neuton  by  Blyfeld  into  five  equal 
parts  divided,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth 
daughter  and  heir  of  William  Trumwyn  of  Cannokbury,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken,  although  lately  it  was  found  by  inquisition, 
by  the  escheator  taken  at  the  king's  command,  that  at  her  death 
the  said  Elizabeth  held  three  parts  of  the  said  manors,  that  Isabel 
wife  of  William  RejTiald  her  aunt  is  her  next  heir  and  of  full  age,  and 
that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king  ;  as  the  said  William 
Reynald  and  Isabel,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine 
of  Michaelmas  last,  acknowledged  and  averred  that  they  had  no 
right  in  two  parts  of  the  said  manors  so  divided,  nor  did  any  pertain  to 
them  at  present,  but  that  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
before  William  de  Fyncheden  and  his  fellows  justices  of  the  Bench  in 
the  47th  3rear  of  the  reign  those  two  parts  ought  now  after  the  said 
Elizabeth's  death  to  remain  to  Adam  de  Peshale  and  Elizabeth  his 
wife,  as  appears  by  a  part  of  the  said  fine  produced  in  chancery. 

Membrane  18. 

Oct.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Wyhum,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  24.  To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  in  dower  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Henry  de  Bello  Monte  tenant  in 
chief  such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of 
fees  following  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  of  the  knights'  fees 
of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  namely 
the  sixth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Braytoft  and  Frisby  now  held 
by  John  de  Cressy  and  extended  at  16s.  $d.  a  year,  the  fifth  part  of 
one  knight's  fee  in  Kateby  held  by  John  de  Croxtorj  at  20s.,  the 
moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hotoft  and  elsewhere  held  by  John  de 
Helynges  at  50s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Tiryngton  held 
by  the  heirs  of  Thomas  Mustel]  at  50s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Langton  and  Thymelby  held  by  .John  de  Wylughby  and  the 
abbot  of  Kirkestede  at  50s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Kelstem  and  Eayles- 
thorp  held  by  Robert  Eaulay  knight  and  the  abbot  of  Louth  Pan  at 
100s.,  the  eighth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Barton  held  by  John  do 
Wilughby  at  L2s.  M.t  the  fifth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  the  said 
town  of  Barton  held  by  the  heirs  of  John  de  Orby  a4  20s.,  the  third 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  the  same  town  held  by  the  abbot  oi  Bardenaye 
at  2\   marks,  the  eighth   part   of  one  knight's  fee  in  the  same  town 

CR    11 


162  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  18 — cont. 

held  by  the  abbot  of  Thornton  at  12s.  6d.,  the  twentieth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  the  same  town  held  by  Roger  Straunge  at  5s.,  the 
moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Feriby  held  by  Thomas  de  Kidale  at  50s., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Horkestowe  held  by  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  of 
St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  at  100s.,  three  knights'  fees  in  Wyn- 
tryngham  held  by  Dame  de  Marmyon  at  151.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Asethorp  held  by  the  heirs  of  Robert  de  Horneby  at  50s.,  one 
knight's  fee  in  Scampton  held  by  the  abbot  of  Kirkestede  at  100s., 
the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Burton  held  by  the  abbot  of 
Bardenaye  at  25s.,  three  quarters  of  one  knight's  fee  in  the  same  town 
held  by  the  abbot  of  Barlynges  at  75s.,  two  knights'  fees  in  Coke  wo  Id 
and  Thoresweye  held  by  John  de  Helynges  at  101.,  one  knight's  fee 
in  Swalowe  and  Cotes  held  by  John  de  Helynges  at  100s.,  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Thoreswaye  held  by  the  heirs  of  Peter  Neville 
at  50s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Barowe  held  by  the  abbot  of  Thornton  at 
100s.,  two  thirds  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Rothewell  held  by  the  heirs 
of  Robert  de  Keleby  at  5  marks,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
the  said  town  of  Rothewell  and  Thoresweye  held  by  the  heirs  of  Roger 
de  Insula  at  50s.,  2 J  knights'  fees  in  Ilkeston  co.  Derby  held  by  William 
de  Cantilupo  knight  at  111.  5s.,  3 J  knights'  fees  in  Whatton  in  la  Vale 
co.  Notyngham  held  by  Hugh  Newemarche  at  17/.  10s.,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Hemyngton  held  by  John  de  Crophull  and  Henry  de  Langton 
at  100s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hatherne  held  by  John 
Nauncell  at  25s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hoghton  and 
Swynford  sometime  held  by  Stephen  Malore  at  50s.,  one  knight's  fee 
in  Frisby  and  Gal  by  now  held  by  John  Burdet  at  100s.,  the  fortieth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Weston  sometime  held  by  Martin  de  Baill' 
at  5s.,  the  ninth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Weston  sometime  held  by 
Saier  de  Trumpton  at  10s.,  the  fortieth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Wykyngeston  sometime  held  by  Martin  de  Baill'  at  5s.,  the  fortieth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Weston  sometime  held  by  Robert  de 
Horpewell  at  10s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Burton 
Noveray  sometime  held  by  Nicholas  Noveray  at  25s.,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Loghton  formerly  held  by  the  earl  of  Oxford  at  100s.,  one 
knight's  fee  in  Wykyngeston  formerly  held  by  the  said  earl  at 
100s.,  and  one  knight's  fee  and  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Wheston  and  Mounsorell  co.  Leycester  sometime  held  by  John  de 
Segrave  and  extended  at  11.  10s.  a  year. 

To  John  de  Bekyngham  escheator  in  Notynghamshire  and  Derby- 
shire. Like  order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Margaret  3£  knights' 
fees  in  Whatton  in  la  Vale  co.  Notyngham  and  2|  knights'  fees  in 
Ilkeston  co.  Derby,  tenants  and  extents  (as  above). 

To  Thomas  Walssh  escheator  in  Leycestershire.  Like  order  in 
regard  to  one  knight's  fee  in  Hemyngton,  the  fourth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Hatherne,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hoghton  and 
Swynford,  one  knight's  fee  in  Frisby  and  Galby,  the  fortieth  part  of 
one  knight's  fee  in  Weston,  the  ninth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Weston, 
the  fortieth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Wykyngeston,  the  fortieth  part 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Weston,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Burton  Noveray,  one  knight's  fee  in  Loghton,  one  knight's  fee  in 
Wykyngeston,  and  one  knight's  fee  and  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Wheston  and  Mounsorell,  tenants  and  extents  (as  above). 


49    EDWARD    III. 


103 


1375. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 


To  Ralph  de  Thresk  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  deliver  in 
dower  to  the  said  Margaret  the  advowsons  following,  which  tho  king 
has  assigned  to  her  of  the  advowsons  of  her  said  husband,  namely 
the  advowsons  of  Lyndewode  church  extended  at  20  marks  a  year, 
and  of  Caillesthorp  church  at  12 i  marks  a  year,  both  in  that  county. 


Membrane  17. 

Oct.  19.  To  John  Sayville  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  and  tenements 
hereinafter  mentioned  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Thomas  de  Bolton,  delivering  to  John  de  Lokton  and  Agnes  his  wife 
any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said  Thomas  held  jointly 
with  Agnes  his  wife  (whom  the  said  John  de  Lokton  has  taken  to  wife)  of 
the  gift  of  Adam  de  Appilton  chaplain  made  with  the  king's  licence  to 
them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  a  messuage  and  garden  called 
Gaytskogh,  nine  tofts,  fourteen  bovates  and  60  acres  of  land,  7  acres 
of  meadow  and  30s.  of  rent  in  Hoton  Colswayne,  which  are  held  in 
chief,  and  likewise  jointly  with  the  said  Agnes  the  manor  of  Hoton 
Colswayne  and  three  bovates  of  land  in  that  town  with  the  site  of 
a  water  mill  upon  the  river  Derwent,  the  manor  of  Hoton  Bardolf 
and  three  bovates  of  land  in  that  town,  and  twelve  bovates  of  land  in 
Hoton  Mynchon  held  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
the  fealty  of  John  de  Lokton. 

Oct.  20.  To  John  Sergeant  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  Richard  de  Lutteleye  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  and  heir  of  Richard 
Haym  tenant  by  knight  service  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  cousin  and 
heir  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  tenant  in  chief  who  was 
lately  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  all  the  lands  of  her  said 
father  which  by  his  death  are  in  the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  said  Joan 
has  proved  her  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  the 
fealty  of  her  said  husband. 

Oct.  14.  To  John  de  Sayvylle  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  cause  Ellis 

Westminster,  de  Thoresby  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage  in  Brunby  held  by  John 
son  of  Arnald  de  Brunby  outlawed  for  divers  felonies  it  is  said,  and 
Richard  Veile  of  Brunby  and  Joan  his  wife  to  have  seisin  of  a  toft 
containing  two  pieces  of  waste  ground  and  of  four  bovates  of  land 
in  Brunby  held  by  the  said  John  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisi- 
tion, taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  premises  have  been  in  liis  hand 
a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  John  held 
that  messuage  of  the  said  KIlis,  and  the  toft  and  land  of  the  said 
Richard  and  Joan,  and  that  William  de  la  Vale  late  escheator  had  the 
year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  to  the 
king  for  the  same. 

Oct.  26.  To   Oliver  de    Harnham   escheator   in    the   eoiintv   of  Siit h ampton. 

Westminster.  Order   to   cause    [ngelram   son    and    heir   of    William    I'.ruvn     knight    to 

have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said   lather  taken   into  the  kind's  hand 

by  his  death  ;    as  he  has  proved  his  age  before   tl"-  esoheator,  and 
the  king  has   taken   his  homage  and   fealty.  By  p.s.  [307:50. ] 


164  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


2375.  Membrane  16. 

Oct.  24.  To  John  Sayville  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  deliver   100 

Westminster,  acres  of  land  in  Carleton  by  Warthill  and  the  launds  of  Sandburne 
and  Qwitkar  in  the  town  of  Stokton  containing  200  acres  of  moor 
and  pasture,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  de 
Bolton,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken,  to  the  next  friend  on 
her  mother's  side  of  Mary  his  daughter  and  heir  to  whom  the  inheritance 
may  not  descend,  to  be  kept  to  her  use,  but  to  remove  the  king's 
hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  divers  other  lands  likewise  taken 
into  the  king's  hand,  delivering  up  any  issues  of  these  taken  ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  the  escheator's  bailiwick  in 
chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  whereby  the  wardship  of  his  lands  ought 
at  present  to  pertain  to  the  king,  but  held  the  said  land,  moor  and 
pasture  in  chief  as  in  socage  rendering  53s.  4d.  at  the  exchequer  by 
the  hands  of  the  sheriff,  and  divers  other  lands  of  others  than  the  king, 
and  that  the  said  Mary  is  his  next  heir  and  of  the  age  of  2  years  all 
but  one  quarter. 

Oct.  28.  To  John  Sergeant  escheator  in  Herefordshire.     Order  to  take  the 

Westminster,  fealty  of  Lucy  late  wife  of  Thomas  Chaundos  knight  according  to 
the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and 
meddle  no  further  with  the  manor  of  Lugwardyn.  one  toft  and  the 
moiety  of  one  carucate  of  land  in  Frome  and  Dormyton  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  her  said  husband,  delivering  to  her  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  at  his  death  held  the  said 
manor  in  chief  jointly  with  the  said  Lucy  by  gift  and  feoffment  of 
Roger  Chaundos  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  the  heirs  of 
their  bodies,  with  reversion  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  Roger 
and  his  heirs,  and  the  said  toft  and  land  likewise  jointly  with  the 
said  Lucy  of  others  than  the  king. 

Oct.  26.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  keep  in  the  king's 

Westminster,  hand  5s.  of  rent  in  the  parish  of  Nonynton  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  John  de  Soles,  but  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and 
meddle  no  further  with  the  manor  of  Betleshangre  and  divers  other 
tenements  likewise  so  taken,  delivering  up  any  issues  of  these  taken ;  as 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  bailiwick  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  rent  by  knight  service 
of  Richard  brother  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Ponynges  knight  tenant  in 
chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  the  said  manor  and  other 
lands  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  5.  To  John  Sayville  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  cause  Marmaduke 

Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  John  son  of  Edmund  de  Tweng  tenant  in  chief  to  have 
seisin  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Edmund  his  father*  (sic)  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  his  death ;  as  the  said  Marmaduke  has  proved  his 
age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [30752.] 

Nov.  10.         To  the  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle  for  the  time  being,  or  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant  there.     Order  of  the  issues  of  his  bailiwick  to  pay  to  Ralph 

*  The   same   error   is   found   in  the   warrant. 


49    EDWARD    III. 


L66 


1375. 


Membrane  1G — cont. 


Porter  the  king's  Serjeant  the  arrears  of  his  wages  since  30  August 
in  the  49th  year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  such 
wages  as  John  de  Westele  in  his  life  time  used  to  have,  taking  his 
acquittance  for  every  payment  ;  as  on  that  day  the  king  by  Letters 
patent  granted  to  the  said  Ralph  daring  pleasure  the  office  of  Janitor 
of  the  said  castle,  taking  such  wages  and  lees  and  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  said  John  late  janitor  deceased  used  to  take  in  that  oiliee. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  10.  To  John  Sayville  escheator  in  Westmorland.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Katherine  Whitefeld  the  manor  of  Barton,  a  messuage  in  the  town 
of  Barton  called  Trostormond  excepted,  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Randolph  de  Dacre,  together  with  the  issues  taken 
of  the  said  manor  with  that  exception  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said  Randolph 
held  that  manor  with  the  exception  aforesaid  for  his  life  by  gift  of 
William  de  Halton  and  William  Chaumberleyn  chaplains,  with  re- 
mainder to  the  said  Katherine  for  her  life,  and  that  the  same  is  held 
of  the  heir  of  Thomas  de  Twheng  tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's 
wardship,  by  the  service  of  paying  one  sore  sparrowhawk  or  Vld. 
a  year  at  the  feast  of  St.  Peter's  Chains ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
the  fealty  of  the  said  Katharine. 


Nov.  7. 
Westminster. 


To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  deliver  by  indenture  Nicholas 
Clerk,  who  Mas  taken  with  the  manner  of  two  silver  salts  of  the  king's 
engraved  with  the  king's  arms,  and  is  imprisoned  in  Neugate  gaol, 
to  William  Mau  the  king's  serjeant  from  whose  keeping  the  same 
were  stolen,  to  be  brought  to  the  Marshalsea  prison  of  the  king's 
household  until  thence  delivered  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of 
England,  also  the  said  salts  to  be  kept  to  the  king's  use. 

Nov.  10.         Brother  Henry  Wernuill'    attorney  of  the  bishop  of  Achonry  has 
Westminster,  the  king's  letters  of   exchange  addressed  to  Peter  Mark  merchant  of 
Lumbardy  dwelling  in  the  city  of  London  for  81.  payable  to  the  said 
bishop  or  to  his  attorney  in  foreign  parts. 

Nov.  8.  John  de  Langton  has  like  letters  for  40/.  addressed  to  the  said 

Westminster.  Peter  and  payable  to  himself. 

Nov.  13.         Adam  Naas  clerk  and  Master  Thomas  de  Southam  have  like  Letter! 
Westminster,  addressed  to  John  Crede  for  100  marks  payable  in  foreign  parts. 

William  Palmere  has  like  letters  for  6/.  addressed  to  Peter  Mark. 

Peter  Pawe  clerk  dwelling  in  Avinon  has  like  letters  for  10  marks 
addressed  to  John  Crede. 


Nov.  14.  Master  Thomas  de  Wormcnhale  has  like  letters  for  50J.  addn 

Westminster,  to  the  said  John. 

William  master  arbalester  of  th<'  Town- of  London  and  Bonseignooi 
master  of  the  kin  have  like  Letters  for  LOO  florins  addn 

to  Peter  Mark  merchant  of  Lumbardy  and  payable  to  them  in  foreign 

parts. 


166  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

Nov.  1.  To  Roger  Keterych  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  deliver  to  William 
Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Redeswell,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  Thomas 
son  and  heir  of  John  Essex  tenant  in  chief  a  minor  in  the  king's  ward- 
ship, the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  William's  nonage  ;  as  he  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator  ;  and  the  age  of  the  said  Thomas  son  of 
John  being  lately  proved,  the  king  took  his  homage  and  commanded 
livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

Membrane  15. 

Nov.  20.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  king's  manor  of  Istelworth  co.  Middlesex 
Westminster,  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay  to  John 
de  Ipre  controller  of  the  king's  household  the  arrears  of  1001.  yearly 
since  8  August  in  the  46th  year  of  the  reign,  and  henceforward  to 
pay  him  that  yearly  sum  from  time  to  time  so  long  as  he  shall  have 
the  same,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  17  May  in  the  43rd  year 
of  his  reign  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the 
said  John  for  his  good  service  100/.  a  year  to  be  taken  at  the  exchequer 
at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  during  his  life  or  until 
the  king  should  take  other  order  for  his  estate  ;  and  on  8  August 
aforesaid,  at  the  said  John's  petition  and  for  that  he  gave  up  those 
letters  patent  in  chancery  to  be  cancelled,  the  king  of  his  favour 
granted  to  the  said  John  100/.  to  be  taken  of  the  issues  of  that  manor 
as  aforesaid  at  the  same  feasts  during  his  life  or  until  the  king  should 
take  other  order  for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  16.  To  the  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  Gilbert  de  Culwenn  and  Isabel  his  wife,  to  remove  the  king's  hand 
and  meddle  no  further  with  the  third  part  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor 
of  Distyngton,  delivering  to  them  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  their 
petition  shows  that  Christopher  de  Moriceby,  sometime  the  said 
Isabel's  husband,  long  after  their  espousal  was  seised  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  of  a  moiety  of  the  said  manor,  which  is  held  in  chief,  and 
before  his  death  without  obtaining  the  king's  licence  demised  the 
same  to  Margaret  de  Moriceby,  that  he  being  dead  the  said  third 
part  was  after  delivered  in  dower  to  the  said  Isabel  by  the  said 
Margaret,  that  she  by  virtue  of  the  said  livery  held  the  same  peaceably 
until  it  was  by  Roger  Lascels  late  escheator  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  reason  of  that  alienation  for  that  he  found,  by  inquisition 
by  him  taken,  that  the  same  was  made  without  licence,  and  by  colour 
of  that  inquisition  the  said  Isabel  was  put  out,  praying  for  restitution  ; 
and  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John 
de  Sayville  knight  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Christopher  was  seised 
of  the  said  moiety  and  demised  the  same  as  aforesaid  to  the  said 
Margaret  for  life,  that  she  having  seisin  thereof  delivered  a  third 
part  to  the  said  Isabel  in  dower,  that  the  said  Isabel  held  that  part 
peaceably  until  the  said  former  inquisition,  and  that  the  said  moiety 
was  thereupon  seized  into  the  king's  hand,  and  is  yet  in  his  hand  for 
that  cause  and  for  none  other. 

Nov.  15.         To  William  de  Walleworth  and  Nicholas  de  Brembre  late  collectors 
Westminster,  of  the  great  custom  in  the  port  of  London.       Order  to  deliver  to 


49    EDWARD    III.  10? 


1375.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

John  Warde  and  Robert  Girdelere  the  seal  oalled  '  eoket '  and  all  other 
things  affecting  that  office  which  are  in  their  keeping,  not  meddling 
further  therein  ;  as  the  king  has  lately  by  Letters  patent  appointed 
the  said  John  and  Robert  to  levy,  collect  and  receive  to  his  use  the 
custom  and  subsidy  upon  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  in  the  port  of 
London  and  in  singular  the  ports  and  places  from  thence  to  Gravesende 
on  either  side  the  Thames,  at  Gravesende,  from  thence  to  Tillebury 
on  the  Essex  side,  and  at  Tillebury,  namely  of  every  sack  of  wool 
50s.  of  natives  and  4  marks  of  aliens,  of  every  240  woolfells  50s.  of 
natives  and  4  marks  of  aliens,  and  of  every  last  of  hides  100s.  of 
natives  and  8  marks  of  aliens,  and  to  keep  the  said  seal  during  pleasure. 
It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  late  collectors  be  thereof  discharged 
toward  him. 

Nov.  11.  To  Thomas  Sewalle  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  Henry  Wardedieu  25  acres  of  land,  3  acres  of  meadow  and  G  acres 
of  pasture  in  Sauston  and  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Sauston  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth  Warde,  together  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Elizabeth  at  her  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  that  by 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  she  and  William  Warde 
sometime  her  husband  (likewise  deceased)  held  the  premises  for  life 
with  remainder  to  the  said  Henry  and  Katherine  his  wife  deceased 
and  to  the  said  Katherine's  heirs,  and  that  the  said  moiety  is  held 
in  chief  by  knight  service,  the  residue  of  the  premises  of  others  than 
the  king  ;    and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said  Henry. 

Nov.  20.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest 
Westminster,  of  Savernak  to  be  elected    instead  of   William   Chamberlay,  who  is 
dead. 

Nov.  27.  To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Wavyng- 
don  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth  who  was 
wife  of  Hugh  de  Courtenay  the  younger,  delivering  to  Hugh  de  Cour- 
tenay  earl  of  Devon  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  lias  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Elizabeth  at  her 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  bailiwick  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in 
service,  but  held  the  said  manor  in  fee  tail  by  grant  of  the  said  earl 
made  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  to  the  said 
Hugh  the  younger  and  Elizabeth  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
reversion  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  carl  and  his  heirs,  that  Hugh 
the  younger  and  Elizabeth  are  dead  without  issue,  wherefore  the  -aid 
manor  ought  by  the  form  of  that  line  to  revert  to  the  carl  and  his 
heirs,  and  that  it  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service. 
The  like  to  the  following: — 

John    Mattesford    escheator   in    Devon    Concerning    the    manor   of 

Bonyton,  the  advowson  excepted. 

Oliver    de    Jlarnhani    escheator    in    Oxfordshire    concerning    the 
manors  of  daw  ell'  and  Nywenhaiii. 

To   Walter  Cifrewa  beator   in   Somerset    and    Dorset,     lake 

order,   mutatis   mutandis,  oonoerning   the   manor  and  advowson  "t 


16S  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  15 — cont. 

Ebrighfton  co.  Dorset,  the  manor  of  Estcoker  co.  Somerset  the  advowson 
excepted,  and  the  advowson  of  Hardyngton  by  Estcoker;  as  the 
king  has  learned  etc.  that  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Hugh  de  Courtenay 
the  younger  at  her  deal  h  held  the  premises  in  fee  tail  by  grant  of  Hugh 
de  Courtenay  earl  of  Devon  made  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
with  his  licence  to  the  said  Hugh  the  younger  and  Elizabeth  and 
to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  with  reversion  to  the  earl  and  his  heirs, 
that  Hugh  the  younger  and  Elizabeth  are  dead  without  issue  etc. 
(as  above),  and  that  the  premises  are  held  in  chief  by  knight  service. 

Dec.  23.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Plymmuth.  Order  without  delay  to 
Westminster,  dearrest  a  ship  of  Spain  there  arrested,  suffering  certain  merchants 
and  seamen  of  Spain  and  Portugal  who  came  thither  with  the  same 
freely  without  let  to  go  their  way  according  to  the  truce  now  newly 
taken  between  the  king  and  them  of  Spain  ;  as  at  the  motion  of  divers 
merchants  of  England  they  came  thither  with  goods  of  those  merchants 
under  hope  and  confidence  of  the  said  truce,  and  notwithstanding 
the  same  the  said  ship  is  there  arrested,  as  the  king  has  learned. 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol.  Order  to  suffer  certain  mer- 
chants and  seamen  of  Spain  and  Portugal  and  their  ships  freely 
without  let  to  go  their  way  according  to  the  truce  now  newly  taken 
between  the  king  and  them  of  Spain  by  John  king  of  Castile  and 
Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre  ;  as  at  the  motion  of  divers  merchants 
of  England  they  came  thither  from  Spain  and  Portugal  with  certain 
their  ships  bringing  goods  of  those  merchants  under  hope  and  confidence 
of  that  truce,  as  the  king  has  learned. 

The  like  to  the  following  : —  > 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Dertemuth. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton. 


Membrane  14. 

Oct.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Robert  Blake,  who  is  dead. 

Oct.  30.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues  of 

Westminster,  the  county  to  pay  to  Thomas  de  Stafford  the  king's  serjeant  at  arms 
the  arrears  since  28  July  in  the  34th  year  of  the  reign  of  12d.  a  day, 
and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  daily  sum  for  life,  taking  his 
acquittance  ;  as  on  that  date  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters 
patent  to  the  said  Thomas  for  his  good  service  12d.  a  day  to  be  taken 
of  the  issues  of  that  county  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  during  his 
life  or  until  the  king  should  take  other  order  for  his  estate,  in  recom- 
pense for  the  wages  which  he  used  to  take  in  the  king's  household. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Oct.  22.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  take  of  Joan 

Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Frogenhale  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she 

will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower 

of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 

sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 


49    EDWAIID    III. 


169 


1375. 


Membrane  14 — cont. 


Nov.  7.  To  John   atte   Welde  eseheator   in    Essex.     Order  to   remove  tlie 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Wodehalle 

in  the  town  of  Arkisdene  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 

of  William  de  Burton  knight,  delivering  to  Eleanor  late  his  wife  any 

issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
at  his  command  by  Roger  Keterioh  late  eseheator,  that  the  said  William 

at  his  death  held  that  manor  of  others  than  the  king  jointly  with  the 
said  Eleanor  by  gift  of  Philip  parson  of  Little  Castirton  to  them  and 
the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  sueh  an  heir  to 
the  right  heirs  of  the  said  William. 

Nov.  10.  To  John  Rokewode  eseheator  in  Norffolk.  Order  to  take  the  fealty 
Westminster,  of  Eleanor  late  the  wife  of  William  de  Burton  knight  according  to 
the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  deliver  to  her  the  manor  of 
Great  Melton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said  husband's  death, 
but  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  divers  other 
lards  so  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  delivering  to  the  said  Eleanor  any 
issues  of  these  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  kin 
command  by  Richard  de  Waterden  late  eseheator,  that  the  said 
William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  that  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Eleanor 
by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Philip  de  Apethorp  parson  of  Little  Castirton 
to  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  and  divers  other  lands  likewise  of  the 
said  Philip's  gift,  that  the  said  manor  is  held  of  the  king  as  of  the 
honour  of  Peverel  by  the  service  of  homage  and  of  making  two  suits 
3'early  at  the  court  of  Hatefeld  Peverel,  and  the  other  lands  of  others 
than  the  king  ;  and  for  half  a  mark  paid  by  the  said  Eleanor  the  king 
has  respited  her  homage  until  Easter  next. 

Nov.  7.  To  John   Dymmok   eseheator  in   Lincolnshire.     Order  to   remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage,  three 
shops  and  10  acres  of  land  hi  Stanford  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  William  de  Burton  knight,  delivering  to  Eleanor  late 
his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken 
at  the  king's  command  by  Ralph  de  Thresk  late  eseheator,  that  the 
said  William  at  his  death  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said 
Eleanor  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  12.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  he  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Amandus  Mouneeiix  ;    as  the  king  has  learned   by  credible 

witness  that  the  said  Amandus  is  insufficiently  qualified,  wherefore 
the  king  has  removed  him  from  oflice. 


Nov.  22.        John  de  Foletbv  chaplain  has  the  king's  letters  ofexohange  addn 

Westminstor.  to  John  Crede  merchant  of  Lumbardy  dwelling  in  the  city  of  London, 
for  payment  of  91.  to  him  in  foreign  parts. 

To    the   treasurer   and    the    barons    of    the    exchequer.     Order    (in- 

complete),  although  lately  the  king  committed  to   Richard   Forester 

and  others  the  keeping  of  the  priory  of  St.  Frideswide  Oxford  bo  that 
they  should  answer  at   the  exchequer  lor  the  issues  thereof  arising; 

as  the  said  Richard  was  by  the  king's  command  [so]  busied  elsewhere 


170  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

that  he  might  not  have  leisure  for  the  keeping  of  the  priory  or  for 
levying  the  issues  thereof. 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  below. 

Nov.  12.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  the  city 
Westminster,  of  London.  Order  to  suffer  all  and  singular  the  merchants  who  will 
bring  wool,  woolfells  or  hides  to  the  staple  of  Calais  to  lade  the  same 
in  that  port  and,  having  first  paid  the  customs,  subsidies  and  other 
duties  thereupon,  freely  to  take  them  over  thither,  notwithstanding 
the  king's  late  writ  commanding  the  collectors  not  to  suffer  any  wool, 
woolfells  or  hides  in  that  port  to  pass  to  any  foreign  parts  after 
Michaelmas  last.  By  K.  and  C. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  Newcastle 
upon  Tyne. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  St.  Botolph. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Great  Jernemuth. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Lenne. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Gyppewych. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Quenesburgh. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Cicestre. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Suthamton. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Exeter. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Bristol. 

The  collectors  in  the  port  of  Melcombe. 

MEMBRANE  13. 

Oct.  26.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Dublin  and  to 

Westminster,  the  chamberlains.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert  de  Asshton 
late  justiciary  of  Ireland,  if  assured  that  the  things  hereinafter 
rehearsed  contain  the  truth,  to  allow  the  wages  and  rewards  shewn  in 
the  account  of  Robert  de  Lithum,  clerk  of  the  wages  of  war,  notwith- 
standing that  exchange  of  hobblers  and  kernes  on  foot  for  men  at 
arms  and  archers  was  made  long  after  21  June  in  the  46th  year  of  the 
reign,  and  that  so  is  the  date  of  the  king's  commission  to  Robert  de 
Lithum  for  payment  of  such  wages  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that 
straightway  after  his  landing  in  Ireland  80  hobblers  and  200  kernes  on 
foot  whom  formerly  by  indentures  between  them  made  the  king 
granted  the  justiciary  to  abide  with  him  and  to  be  maintained  of  the 
profits  and  emoluments  of  Ireland  over  and  above  his  English  retinue, 
were  by  deliberation  and  advice  of  the  then  council  of  Ireland  for  the 
better  security  and  governance  of  Ireland  exchanged  for  certain 
English  men  at  arms  and  archers  retained  by  him  on  21  June  aforesaid, 
to  wit  long  before  his  landing  there,  as  by  the  said  clerk's  account  of 
men  at  liberty  and  men  coming  may  appear,  that  he  the  said  justiciary, 
perceiving  that  the  men  at  arms  so  exchanged  were  endeavouring  to 
withdraw  from  Ireland,  refusing  altogether  to  abide  there  unless  they 
might  receive  rewards  over  and  above  their  wages  as  did  other  the 
English  of  his  retinue,  and  considering  in  himself  the  harm  and  peril 
to  Ireland  that  might  befal  by  their  so  sudden  departure,  and  that  he 
might  not  speedily  have  succour  from  elsewhere  for  the  safety  and 
defence  of  Ireland,  granted  and  promised  such  wages  and  rewards 


49    EDWARD    III.  171 


1375.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

for  all  his  time,  and  that  the  same  were  from  time  to  time  paid  them  all 
the  time  that  they  stood  with  him  the  said  justiciary  in  Ireland, 

by  the  said  account  may  appear,  praying  allowance  thereof  with  the 
wages  for  18  archers  whom  he  retained  with  him  at  the  king's  cost  over 
and  above  100  archers  for  the  defence  of  Ireland  from  i'l  June  aforesaid 
to  28  October  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  ;  and  it  seems  to  the  king 
and  council  that  his  petition  is  reasonable. 

Nov.  2.  William  de  Wynterton  clerk  lias  the  king's  writ  of  exchange  addressed 

Westminster,  to  John  Crede  merchant  of  Lumbardy  dwelling  in  London,  for  pay- 
ment of  201.  to  him  at  Avinon  for  furtherance  of  the  business  of  the 
dean  and  chapter  of  Hereford. 

Oct.  28.  Master  Hugh  de  Harlam,  proctor  of  William  de  Slene  parson  of 

Westminster.  Wynewyk,  has  the  like  writ  addressed  to  the  said  John,  for  payment 
over  sea  of  401. 

Nov.  3.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  Gestyngthorp,  if  he  be  dead  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Oct.  28.  To  Roger  de  la  Lee  escheator  in  Salop.     Order  to  deliver  to  Richard 

Westminster.  Gerard  of  Shrouesbury  all  his  lands  seized  by  the  escheator  into  the 
king's  hand  by  reason  of  his  outlawry  ;  as  lately  John  atte  Celer 
impleaded  the  said  Richard  in  the  king's  court  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  for  that  he  came  not  before 
the  justices  to  answer  thereupon  the  defendant  was  put  in  exigents 
in  the  husting  of  London  to  be  outlawed,  and  was  after  outlawed,  as 
appears  by  the  tenor  of  the  record  and  process  of  outlawry  which  the 
king  has  caused  to  come  before  him  in  chancery,  and  he  rendered 
himself  to  the  Flete  prison  and  therein  abode,  as  William  de  Fyncheden 
late  chief  justice  of  the  Bench  has  certified  in  chancery  at  the  king's 
command  ;  and  on  15  June  in  the  48th  year  of  his  reign  the  king 
by  letters  patent  pardoned  the  said  Richard  that  outlawry,  granting 
him  his  peace,  but  so  that  he  should  stand  to  right  in  the  king's  court 
in  any  cause  the  said  John  would  bring  against  him  [concerning]  the 
said  trespass. 

Nov.  3.  To  William  Calwer  of  Holkham  co.  Norfolk.     Order,  if  John  Raa 

Westminster,  merchant  of  Scotland  appointed  him  to  pay  181.  to  John  de  Wynterton 
merchant  of  Norwich,  and  if  he  received  thai  sum  of  John  Raa's 
money,  to  pay  it  by  indenture  to  John  de  Wynterton  without  delay, 
or  that  which  he  so  received  if  it  amounts  not  to  BO  great  a  sum  ; 
as  by  complaint  made  on  behalf  of  John  de  Wynterton  it  is  shewn 
the  king  that  brother  William  BrounhiU  of  Scotland  and  certain  other 
evildoers  lately  sailing  at  sea  in  fashion  of  war  caused  a  certain  quantity 
of  malt  to  be  taken  which  William  Calwer  and  John  Raa  caused  to  be 
bought  in  Norflolk  with  their  money  and  carried  in  a  certain  Bhip 
towards  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  for  sale,  and  straightway  delivered  fit 
iin  to  William  Calwer  under  a  condition  that  as  soon  as  he  Bold  it 
he  should  answer  to  the  said  brother  William  for  all  that  pertained 
to  John  Raa  thereof,  and  that  though  John  Raa  ifl  bound  to  .John  de 
Wynterton  in  a  certain  sum  for  certain  merchandise  bought  of  him 
it  is  said,  and  has  ofttimes  requested  William  Calwei  t"  deliver  in 

part  payment  of  that  debt  Ins   part  of  the   mone\    arising  from   the 


172  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

malt  and  yet  remaining  in  William  Calwer's  hands,  which  amounts 
to  18/.  it  is  said,  William  Calwer  has  deferred  and  does  unlawfully 
defer  payment,  averring  that  by  colour  of  the  arrest  aforesaid  the 
money  was  brother  William's  and  not  his,  wherefore  John  de  Wynterton 
has  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ;  and  upon  the  examination  of  the 
said  brother  William  before  the  king  and  council  touching  the  premises 
and  touching  other  his  evil  deeds  committed  upon  the  sea,  it  was 
there  declared  that  Avhatsoever  he  and  others  so  did  upon  the  sea 
was  ill  done,  and  it  was  adjudged  that  restitution  should  be  made 
to  the  owners  of  the  goods  and  merchandise  by  them  taken  of  divers 
merchants. 

Nov.  10.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Lincoln.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  John  Credy  and  Francis  Johan  of  the  old  fellowship  of 
Strosses,  to  dearrest  and  deliver  again  to  them  or  their  attorney  two 
'  pakkes '  of  their  canvas  containing  about  2,500  ells,  price  in  all  60k, 
not  arresting  their  goods  and  chattels  for  debts  or  offences  of  Thomas 
Blancard,  Dinus  Blancard,  Nicholas  Johan  and  Arnald  Johan  ;  as 
their  petition  shews  that  the  said  canvas  was  by  the  mayor  and  bailiffs 
unlawfully  arrested  at  the  suit  of  divers  merchants  of  Lincoln  for 
debts  of  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others,  although  the  said  John 
and  Francis  meddled  not  in  anywise  by  way  of  fellowship  with  the 
said  Thomas  and  the  others  ;  and  they  have  found  in  chancery  security 
that  they  will  answer  to  the  said  merchants  of  Lincoln  according 
to  law  and  reason  and  the  appointment  of  the  council. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  by  Nicholas  Russell  de  Stross,  Bernard 
Antony  and  Peter  Mark  for  the  said  John  and  Francis,  that  they  shall 
be  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  as  aforesaid. 

To  the  same.  Like  order,  upon  the  petition  of  Peter  Mark  and 
Nicholas  Luke  and  of  Matthew  Johan  of  the  fellowship  of  the  Albertini, 
regarding  two  packs  of  their  canvas  containing  60  sarplers  and  600 
ells  besides,  price  in  all  SOI. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  by  Nicholas  Russell  de  Stross,  Bernard 
Antony  and  John  Crede  (as  above),  and  that  they  have  protections 
for  themselves  and  their  goods,  as  appears  in  the  Patent  Roll  under 
this  month's  date. 

Nov.  8.  To  John  Welde  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  take  the  fealty  of 

Westminster.  Katherine  wife  of  Thomas  Baynard  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule 
enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with 
the  manor  of  Messj^ng  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas,  delivering  to  the 
said  Katherine  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  at  his  command  by  Roger  de  Keterich  late  escheator, 
that  by  gift  of  John  de  Rokewode  and  others  the  said  Thomas  at  his 
death  held  jointly  with  the  said  Katherine  the  manor  of  Messyng  of 
the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Reymes  by  the  service  of  one  knight's 
fee,  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands  of  others  than  the  king. 

Nov.  18.         Reynold  Walpole  has  the  king's  letters  of  exchange  addressed  to  a 
Westminster,  merchant  of  Florence  for  payment  to  him  of  20k  in  foreign  parts. 

Nov.  16.         Master  Richard  Hay  ton  canon  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  Salisbury 
Westminster,  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Crede  Lumbard,  for  payment  of  40Z. 


40    EDWARD    III.  173 


1375.  Mtmbrane  13 — cont. 

Nov.  20.         John  Barton  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Grade  for  payment 

Westminster,  to  him  of  20  marks. 

Nov.  23.         Waiter  Asshe  has   like   letters   addressed   to   Nicholas    Russell  de 

Westminster.  Strosses  of  Florence   merchant  dwelling  in   the   city  of   London,  for 
payment  of  30  marks. 

John  Coly,  Roger  Salghale  and  John  Wode  have  like  letters  for 
payment  to  them  of  10Z. 

Nov.  24.         Thomas  de  Speton,  John  Coke  and  William  de  Thresk  chaplains 
Westminster,  have  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Credy  of  Lumbardy   merchant 
dwelling  in  the  city  of  London,  for  payment  of  11/. 

Nov.  28.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  William  Rogerson  of  Kirketon,  who  is   too   sick  to   attend 
to  that  office  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Nov.  26.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Salop  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Robert  Horde  of  Walford,  who  is  dead. 

The  like  to  the  same  sheriff  upon  the  death  of  Roger  Preyers. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Salop  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
of  Hugh  de  la  Boure,  who  is  too  sick  and  aged  to  exercise  that  office. 

Membrane  12. 

Oct.  26.  To  Richard  Lyouns.     Order  to  deliver  to  Simon  de  Burgh  the  king's 

Westminster,  esquire  the  40Z.  in  his  keeping  in  part  payment  of  the  ransom  (financie), 
damages  and  losses  hereinafter  mentioned,  according  to  a  judgment 
of  the  great  council  ;  as  lately  hearing  by  his  loud  complaint  that, 
being  sent  as  an  envoy  to  the  papal  see,  and  returning  to  England 
through  the  dominion  of  the  cardinal  de  Genevere  under  hope  of  the 
safe  conduct  and  protection  of  the  said  cardinal,  who  mainperned  before 
the  cardinal  of  Canterbury  promising  him  safe  passage  through  that 
dominion,  certain  evildoers  of  the  subjects  of  the  cardinal  de  Genevere 
within  the  said  dominion  took  the  said  Simon  and  kept  him  captive  until 
he  made  with  them  a  ransom  by  800  franca  and  paid  the  same,  delaying 
the  king's  business  to  the  hurt  and  loss  of  the  king  and  the  said  Simon, 
wherefore  he  has  prayed  the  king  that  of  the  goods  and  chattels  of  the 
cardinal  de  Genevere  in  England  restitution  he  made  of  the  said 
sum  with  his  damages  and  losses;  and  taking  note  that  his  prayer 
was  reasonable  the  king  summoned  before  himself  and  the  council  the 
said  cardinal's  proctors  in  England,  and.  laying  the  premises  before 
them,  at  their  request  gave  the  cardinal  a  day  long  past  within  which 
he  should  reform  those  evil  doingB  or  cause  them  to  he  by  his  Bubjects 
reformed,  or  should  excuse  himself,  shewing  cause  by  his  proctors 
wherefore   such    restitution   ought    not   to    l.c    made,   at    which   day   the 

cardinal  or  his  proctors  took  no  heed  to  answer  the  premises,  and 
that  no  prejudice  should  arise  t<>  the  cardinal  without  advising  him 

the  king  of  his  favour  set   him  another  day  now   past   to  do  as  aforesaid, 

or  to  send  over  and  write  again  his  will,  thereupon  causing  \0l.  <»t  the 
cardinal's  moneyi  to  be  arr<   ted  and  delivered  to  the  safe  keeping 

of  the  .-aid  Richard,  awaiting  the  cardinal's  answer  in  that  behalf  ;    and 


174  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

although  the  cardinal  is  fully  informed  concerning  the  premises,  and 
his  proctors  have  many  times  written  and  sent  over  to  him  for  that 
cause,  as  they  have  with  truth  freely  confessed  before  the  king,  the 
cardinal  has  not  hitherto  deigned  to  do  aught,  to  send  over  to  the 
king  letters  of  excuse  or  delay,  or  to  write  again  to  him,  but  suffers 
those  evil  doings  to  rest  unpunished,  wherefore  after  mature  delibera- 
tion and  diligent  information  before  the  great  council  had  it  is  by  the 
said  council  determined  that  of  his  goods  and  chattels  in  England 
the  cardinal  de  Genevere  shall  be  compelled  to  make  restitution  and 
content  the  said  Simon.  By  the  great  council. 

Mandate  to  A.  archbishop  of  York  to  cause  the  goods  and  chattels 
of  the  cardinal  de  Genevere  which  are  within  his  province  and  jurisdic- 
tion up  to  the  amount  of  the  said  ransom,  damages  and  losses  over 
and  above  the  said  401.  to  be  sequestrated  and  kept  under  sequestra- 
tion, so  as  to  have  the  same  before  the  king  and  the  said  council  in  the 
qninzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next,  that  at  that  time  the  king  may  cause 
that  which  is  right  and  reasonable  to  be  done.     By  the  great  council. 

[Feeder  a. 1 

Nov.  5.  Ralph  de  Walsham  and  his  fellows  have  the  king's  letters  of  exchange 

Westminster,  addressed  to  Peter  Mark  Lumbard  for  40  marks  to  be  received  over  sea. 

Nov.  7.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Berkshire.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  John  de  Estbury,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Estbury  the  elder  tenant 
in  chief,  the  third  part  of  a  messuage  and  two  virgates  of  land,  of  the 
moiety  of  one  acre  of  meadow  and  of  7s.  of  rent  in  Estbury,  and  all  other 
the  lands  held  in  dower  by  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  John  the  elder  and 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Katherine  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
nor  of  others  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  in  Estbury 
in  chief,  and  divers  other  lands  of  others  than  the  king  to  her  dower  ; 
and  on  16  January  last  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said 
John  the  son,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said 
father's  lands. 

Nov.  10.         To  the  mayor  and  recorder  of  the  city  of  London.     Order  without 

Westminster,  delay  to  send  for  execution  to  the  exchequer  the  estreats  of  their 

sessions  held  for  delivery  of  Neugate  gaol ;    as  the  king  is  informed 

that  they  have  many  times  held  such  sessions  in  the  absence  of  his 

justices  appointed  for  delivery  thereof. 

Nov.  10.         To  Gilbert  de  Culwen  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  cause  John 

Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Kilvyngton  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin 

of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ; 

as  the  said  John  proved  his  age  before  John  Sayville  late  escheator, 

and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30765.] 

Nov.  14.  To  John  Welde,  escheator  in  Hertfordshire.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Elizabeth  late  the  wife  of  Roger  Elinerugge  knight  the  manor  of 
Sauecombe  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said  husband's  death, 
delivering  to  her  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition, 
taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Roger  Keterych  late  escheator, 
that  the  said  Roger  Elinerugge  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 


49    EDWARD    III.  175 


1375.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

in  chief  nor  of  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service,  but 
held  that  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Elizabeth  by  gift  and  feoffment 
of  John  Sewy  chaplain,  Thomas  de  Burford  chaplain  and  William  de 
Cudlyngton  chaplain  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  their 

heirs,  and  that  it  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service  ;  and  for  half 
a  mark  by  her  paid  the  king  has  respited  the  homage  and  fealty  of 
the  said  Elizabeth  until  Easter  next. 

To  Edmund  de  Bruge  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Like  order,  m  utalis 
mutandis,  in  regard  to  the  manor  of  Elinerugge  and  bullaries  of  brine 
of  six  leads  in  Wych  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by 
John  de  Hambury  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Roger  held  that  manor 
jointly  with  the  said  Elizabeth  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  de 
Hodyngton  and  Thomas  de  la  Brode  chaplain,  and  the  said  bullaries 
likewise  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  Boteller  of  Wyeh,  Richard  de  la 
Forde  and  Alice  his  wife  to  them  made,  and  that  the  said  manor  is 
held  by  knight  service  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Talbot  tenant  in 
chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  the  said  bullaries  of  others 
than  the  king. 

To  John  de  Rokewode  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Like  order,  mutatis 
mutandis,  concerning  the  manor  of  Fakenham  Aspys  ;  as  it  is  found 
by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Richard  de  Waterden 
late  escheator,  that  Roger  de  Elinerugge  knight  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee 
nor  in  service,  but  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  Sewy  chaplain, 
Thomas  Burford  chaplain  and  William  de  Codlyngton  chaplain  by 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  held  the  said  manor 
jointly  with  Elizabeth  late  his  wife  in  chief  by  the  service  of  18d. 
payable  at  the  end  of  every  twenty  weeks  to  the  ward  of  Norwich 
castle. 

MEMBRANE  11. 

Nov.  20.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order  to  stay 
Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  Richard  Forester  for 
payment  of  the  issues  of  the  priory  of  St.  Frideswyde  Oxford  to  the 
king's  use,  discharging  him  thereof  ;  as  the  king  lately  committed 
the  keeping  of  that  priory  to  the  said  Richard  and  others  so  that  they 
should  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  the  issues  thereof  arising  ;  but  the 
said  Richard  is  by  the  king's  command  so  much  occupied  elsewhere 
that  he  might  not  have  leisure  for  the  keeping  of  the  said  priory  or 
for  levying  the  issues  thereof.  Proviso  that  answer  lie  made  by  those 
who  ought  lawfully  to  be  charged  with  the  same. 

Nov.  20.  To    John    Karnels    escheator    in    Nbrhamptonshire.     Order    not    to 

Westminster,  meddle  with  the  manor  of  AneSCOte  or  tin-  LSSUee  thereof  while  a  plea 

is  pending   in    chancery  between    the    king   and    Roger   de   Clifford 
concerning  the  same. 

Nov.  30.        To  .John  atte  Welde  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  take  of  Margaret 

Westminster,  who   was   wife  of   Roger  de  Grey    knight    tenant    in   chief  SO  oath   that 
she  will  not    marry  without   the  kin-:-  licence,  and  to  assign  In-r  dowrr 

of  her  said  husband's  land-  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  In-  death, 
sending  the  assignment  undei  seal  t<>  i»c  enrolled  m  chanoery. 


170  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


137T>.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Nov.  2s.  To  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop  and  the  march  of  Wales 
Westminster,  adjacent.  Order  to  take  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  John  son  and  heir 
of  John  Lestraunge  of  Blakemere  tenant  in  chief,  who  died  within 
age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without 
the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  to  whom 
the  king  has  committed  the  wardship  of  her  said  husband's  lands  or 
of  his  attornej's,  if  being  warned  they  will  attend,  to  assign  her  dower 
of  the  said  lands,  except  the  manor  of  Straunge  Betton  concerning 
which  a  plea  is  yet  pending  in  chancery  without  debate,  sending  the 
assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  Oliver  Harnham  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Order  to  assign  dower  to  the  said  Isabel,  of  whom  the  king  has 
caused  an  oath  to  be  taken  by  William  Walshale  etc.  (as  above). 

Nov.  30.  To  Thomas  Ilston  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  remove  the  king's 
Westminster,  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  moiety  of  100  acres  of  land, 
of  7  acres  of  meadow,  of  100  acres  of  pasture,  and  of  11.  5s.  of  rent  in 
Preston,  Shehvych  and  Hertej7e,  with  63  acres  of  land  and  11  acres 
of  meadow  at  Estwell,  and  with  the  moiety  of  a  yearly  rent  of  7  quarters 
4  bushels  of  palm  barley  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  of  divers  tenants 
in  Terlyngham,  all  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas 
son  of  Michael  de  Ponynges  knight  tenant  in  chief,  saving  to  Blanche 
who  was  his  wife  her  dower  of  the  premises  according  to  the  custom 
of  '  gavelkynde,'  and  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Thomas  at  his  death  held  the  premises  of  others  than  the  king  in 
'  gavelkynde  '  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  and  that  Richard  de  Ponynges 
his  brother  is  his  next  heir  and  of  the  age  of  17  years  and  upwards. 

Nov.  27.  To  John  CarnelF  escheator  in  Roteland.  Order  to  take  the  fealties 
Westminster,  of  Richard  de  Pyryton,  William  de  Ridlyngton  master  of  Manton 
chantry,  Henry  Hudde  parson  of  Berghby  and  John  de  Wympton 
according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's 
hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  one  virgate  of  land  and  two  thirds 
of  a  messuage  in  Langham  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  William  de  Luffewyk  of  Manton,  delivering  to  the  said  Richard  and 
the  others  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  in- 
quisition, taken  by  the  escheator,  that  William  Luffewyk  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  others  in  demesne  nor  in  ser- 
vice, but  was  lately  seised  of  the  premises ,  which  were  held  of  Humphrey 
de  Bohun  then  earl  of  Hereford  and  lord  of  Langham  by  the  service  of 
2s.  of  yearly  rent  and  suit  at  the  two  great  courts  of  Okham  a  year  for 
all  service,  and  of  divers  other  lands  held  likewise  of  others  than  the 
king,  and  by  charter  dated  Monday  before  St.  Lawrence  in  the  46th 
year  of  the  reign  gave  the  same  to  the  said  Richard  and  the  others, 
who  by  virtue  of  that  gift  had  seisin  and  possession  thereof  ;  and 
by  the  said  earl's  death  the  lordship  of  Langham  has  now  come  to 
the  king's  hands. 

Dec.  4.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  if  in  the  plea  in  the 

Westminster,  husting   of   London   hereinafter   mentioned   it   has   been   pleaded   to 

judgment,  to  proceed  to  rendering  of  judgment  with  what  speed  they 

conveniently  may,  doing  justice  to  the  parties  according  to  law  and  to 


49    EDWARD    III.  177 


1375.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

the  custom  of  the  said  city,  the  king's  writ  de  non  procedendo  notwith- 
standing ;  as  lately  at  the  suit  of  John  Everard,  averring  that  he  sued 
in  the  hasting  of  London  before  the  late  mayor  and  sheriffs  against 
Margaret  who  was  wife  of  John  de  la  Touke  for  a  messuage  and  405. 
of  rent  in  London,  counting  that  one  Sara  Aniys  his  cousin,  whose 
heir  the  plaintiff  is,  died  seised  of  the  premises  in  her  demesne  as  of 
fee,  that  the  defendant  in  her  pleading  alleged  that  the  king  by  letters 
patent  gave  the  same  for  life  to  the  defendant  and  her  said  deceased 
husband  with  reversion  to  the  king  and  his  heirs,  by  virtue  whereof 
defendant  and  her  husband  entered  and  defendant  yet  holds  the 
premises,  and  so  may  not  answer  without  the  king,  and  averring  that 
by  colour  of  her  allegation  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  have  deferred  to 
proceed  in  the  said  plea,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  late  mayor  and 
sheriffs  to  give  notice  to  the  defendant  to  be  before  him  in  chancery 
at  a  set  day  now  past  in  order  to  shew  cause  wherefore  notwithstanding 
her  said  allegation  further  proceedings  ought  not  to  be  had,  and 
further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine,  and  the 
mayor  and  sheriffs  returned  that  they  gave  her  notice  to  be  there 
in  order  to  do  as  the  said  writ  required ;  and  at  that  da}' 
the  defendant,  appearing  by  Hugh  de  Gaudeby  her  attorney, 
said  nought  effectual  wherefore  further  proceeding  ought  not  to  be 
taken  in  the  said  plea,  and  the  king  commanded  the  late  mayor  and 
sheriffs  to  proceed  in  that  plea  and  do  speedy  justice  to  the  parties 
the  said  allegation  notwithstanding,  provided  they  should  not  proceed 
to  rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the  king  ;  and  now  the 
plaintiff  has  petitioned  the  king  that  they  may  proceed  to  rendering 
of  judgment,  shewing  that  by  virtue  of  the  said  writ  the  mayor  and 
sheriffs  have  deferred  so  to  do,  although  by  the  plea  between  the 
parties  it  is  found  that  plaintiff  is  cousin  and  next  heir  of  the  said 
Sara  as  aforesaid,  and  the  king  summoned  before  him  in  chancery 
on  the  morrow  of  St.  Martin  last  as  well  his  serjeants  as  Michael  Skyl- 
lyng  his  attorney  and  the  defendant,  who  said  nought  to  the  purpose 
wherefore  they  ought  not  so  to  proceed.  Proviso  that  no  plea  con- 
cerning the  said  messuage  be  held  before  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  without 
advising  the  king. 

Dec.  13.  To  John  Rokewode  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  to  take  of  Margaret 

Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  Roger  Grey  knight  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she 

will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower  of 

her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 

sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Oct.  1.  To  Gilbert  de  Culwen  escheator  in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland,  Cum- 

Westminstor.  berland  and  Westmorland.  Order  to  deliver  to  John  de  Neville,  son 
and  heir  of  Ralph  de  Neville,  all  the  knights'  fees,  parts  of  I 
and  advowsons  of  his  heritage  held  in  dower  by  Alios  who 
was  wife  of  the  said  Ralph  and  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her 
deatli  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by 
John  Sayvylle  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Alice  at  her  death  held  in 
dower  divers  knights'  fees  etc.  of  the  said  John's  heritage,  and  on  10 
October  in  the  41st  year  of  his  reign  the  king  took  the  said  John's 
homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  hk 
father's  lands. 

en   LI 


178  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

Dec.  8.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of 

Westminster.  John  Cheyne  and  Margaret  his  wife,  if  in  the  plea  hereinafter  mentioned 
allegation  has  been  made  as  here  rehearsed,  to  proceed  therein 
with  such  speed  as  they  conveniently  may,  doing  justice  to  the  parties 
according  to  law  and  the  custom  of  the  city  of  London  notwith- 
standing such  allegation,  provided  that  they  proceed  not  to 
rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the  king  ;  as  the  said  petition 
shews  that  the  said  John  and  Margaret  are  suing  before  the  mayor 
and  sheriffs  in  the  busting  of  London  against  Gervase  de  Clifton 
knight  for  dower  of  the  said  Margaret  of  the  freehold  which  was  of 
Robert  de  Tj^ptoft  sometime  her  husband  in  Lymestret  London, 
that  the  defendant  in  his  pleading  has  alleged  that  the  said 
Robert  being  lately  seised  thereof  gave  the  premises  to  defendant 
for  life  with  reversion  to  the  said  Robert  and  to  his  heirs,  that  the 
king  lately  committed  to  Richard  Lescrope  knight  the  wardship  of 
other  lands  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  the  said  Robert's 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heirs,  to  hold  until  the  lawful 
age  of  such  heirs,  and  so  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  might  not  proceed 
further  in  that  plea  without  advising  the  king,  shewing  that  by  colour 
of  that  allegation  they  have  hitherto  deferred  so  to  proceed. 

Membrane  10. 

Declaration  (undated)  of  the  will  of  Thomas  lord  de  Ponyngges,  signed 
by  him  and  addressed  to  Sir  Arnald  Savage,  Sir  William  Elyngton, William 
Tauk,  John  Neumarche,  Roger  Dalynggreg'.  Hugh  Waterton  and 
Sir  John  Bakere  his  feoffees  and  executors,  reciting  charters  indented 
•  whereby  he  has  enfeoffed  them  of  certain  manors  and  rents  of  his 
in  order  that  of  the  profits  thereof  arising  and  of  two  thirds  of  his 
chattels  they  shall  pay  his  debts  and  recompense  all  of  whom  he  has 
wrongfully  taken  their  goods,  directing  that  the  said  feoffees  shall 
have  their  costs  when  they  shall  do  aught  concerning  his  business, 
that  if  need  be  to  make  brokage  with  the  masters  of  the  court  it 
shall  be  done  by  their  advice,  that  if  Blanche  his  wife  will  buy 
part  of  his  stock  she  shall  have  it  before  any  other,  provided  that 
nought  of  his  will  be  delayed  (tarie)  for  her  payment,  and  that  when 
his  will  is  fulfilled  they  shall  surrender  to  her  for  life  their  estate  in 
his  said  lands  if  she  remain  sole,  upon  condition  that  if  she  be  married 
it  shall  be  lawful  for  his  right  heir  to  enter  the  said  lands,  except  that 
they  shall  give  to  Sir  John  Bakere  for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  the 
said  Blanche  his  manor  of  Walderne  if  before  the  death  of  the  said 
Thomas  he  be  not  advanced  to  a  parsonage  or  other  reasonable  living 
(warison)  at  the  said  lord's  gift,  and  that  they  shall  make  provision 
to  deliver  the  soul  of  the  said  Thomas  from  pain.     French. 

Declaration  for  the  king,  made  by  Thomas  Ikham  guardian  of 
Richard  brother  of  Thomas  [de  Ponyngges],  that  in  the  life 
time  of  the  deceased  John  Bakere  was  by  him  advanced  to  the 
church  of  Estwell. 

Memorandum  that  William  de  Elyngton,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  expressly  acknowledged  that  he  had  no  estate  in  the  manors 
and  lands  above  mentioned  but  as  expressed  or  contained  in  the 
foregoing  declaration  or  condition. 

Nov.  24.         To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  take  of  Blanche 
Westminster,  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  son  of  Michael  de  Ponynges  tenant  in  chief 


40  EDWARD  III. 


179 


1375. 


Membrane  10 — cvnt. 


an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to 
deliver  to  her  in  dower  the  manor  of  Eastwell  extended  at  lol.  16s.  lOd. 
a  year  and  10/.  4s.  Id.  of  rent  a  year  to  be  taken  of  divers  tenants  of 
the  manor  of  Xewenton  Bertram  ;  as  with  the  assent  of  Thomas  de 
Middelton  clerk  her  attorney  and  of  Thomas  Ikham  guardian  of 
Richard  brother  and  heir  of  her  said  husband  the  king  has  assigned 
to  her  the  said  manor  and  rent  as  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's 
lands  except  those  held  of  '  gavelkynde.' 

Dec.  6.  To  Thomas  Illeston  escheator  in  Sussex.     Order  to  deliver  to  the 

Westminster,  said  William  (sic)  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Pulbergh  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Walter  del  Isle 
tenant  in  chief  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  at  her  death  held  that  moiety  of  others 
than  the  king  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband  to  them  and 
her  said  husband's  heirs,  and  that  Walter  del  Isle  their  son  is  her 
said  husband's  next  heir  and  of  full  age  ;  and  on  18  April  in  the 
46th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the 
said  William  (sic)  for  the  lands  of  the  said  William  (sic)  his  father. 

Dec.  8.  To  John  Welde  escheator  in  Essex.     Order  to  remove  the  king's 

Westminster,  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  two  messuages  and  one  carucate 
of  land  in  the  towns  of  Estwode  and  Sutton,  a  messuage  and  100  acres 
of  land  in  Totham,  60  a,pres  of  land,  140  acres  of  marsh,  2s.  of  rent 
and  a  rent  of  lib.  of  pepper  in  Asshyndon,  Hakewell  and  Southbeniflet, 
and  80  acres  of  land  in  Goldangre  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  John  de  Hevenyngham  knight,  delivering  to  Joan  his  wife 
any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the 
king's  command  b}r  Roger  Keterich  late  escheator,  that  at  his  deatli 
the  said  John  held  jointly  with  the  said  Joan  to  them  and  the  heirs 
of  the  said  John  the  said  messuages  and  land  in  Estwode  and  Sutton 
of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Reilegh  by  the  service  of  doing  suit 
at  the  court  of  Reilegh  from  month  to  month,  the  premises  in  Totham 
of  the  earl  of  Hereford  and  the  dean  of  St.  Paul  London,  and  the 
residue  of  the  premises  of  others  than  [the  king]  ;  and  the  king  has 
taken  the  said  Joan's  fealty. 

Dec.  14.  To  William  Uger  escheator  in  Ireland.     Order  straitly  charging  the 

Westminster,  escheator  to  take  into  the  king's  hand  all  lands  demised  for  Leaa  than 
their  reasonable  value,  and  for  less  than  the  escheator  would  answer  at 
the  exchequer,  answering  at  the  exchequer  for  the  issues  and  profits 
thereof  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  many  and  divers  lands  for 
divers  causes  pertaining  to  him,  being  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  escheator  by  reason  of  his  office,  have  ofttimea  heretofore  been 
and  are  daily  being  demised  by  commissions  under  the  king's  BOal  of 
Ireland  to  divers  persons  at  a  less  value  than  they  are  worth  a  year 
and  before  the  king  is  by  the  escheator  informed  concerning  their 
value,  to  the  king's  loss  and  prejudice,  wherefore  the  king  has  rom- 
mandeil  the  governor  and  guardian  or  the  Justiciary  of  Inland,  the 
chancellor  and  treasurer  and  other  his  ministers  not  to  demise  nor 
grant  to  farm  any  lands  p<  i taming  to  the  king  or  parcel  thereof  to 
any  person  of  whatsoever  estate  before  they  shall  he  by  the  esoheatOX 
fully  informed  concerning  the  true  value  of  the  same. 
Et  eral  patens. 


180 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  9. 

Dec.  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues 

Westminster,  of  the  county  to  pay  to  Master  Richard  Ronhale  the  king's  clerk, 
warden  of  the  hall  of  the  king's  scholars  whom  the  king  maintains 
of  his  alms  in  the  university  of  Cantebrigge,  the  arrears  since  14 
November  last  of  4d.  a  day  and  8  marks  a  year,  and  henceforward 
to  pay  him  those  daily  and  yearly  sums  every  year,  taking  his  acquit- 
tance ;  as  on  that  date  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent 
to  the  said  warden  4d.  a  dajr  for  his  wages  and  8  marks  a  year  for  his 
two  gowns,  namely  one  with  furring  and  another  with  lining,  to  be 
taken  as  aforesaid  during  the  king's  pleasure.  [See  p.s.  30777.] 

Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  30.  To  Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  to 
Westminster,  deliver  to  Robert  de  Hunteley  to  hold  by  the  courtesy  of  England 
a  messuage,  one  carucate  of  land  and  160s.  of  rent  in  Abbenhale  and 
Little  Dene  by  Abbenhale  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Margaret  who  was  his  wife,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  Margaret  at  her  death  held  the  premises  in  her  demesne 
as  of  fee  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the  tenth  part  of  one  knight's 
fee,  and  of  rendering  to  the  king  30s.  a  year  at  Michaelmas,  and 
that  the  said  Robert  ought  to  hold  the  same  for  life  as  aforesaid 
by  reason  of  issue  between  them  begotten  ;  and  the  king  has  taken 
his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30798.] 

Nov.  25.  To  John  Dymmok  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of  Angos  the  manor  of  Stalyngburgh  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Robert 
de  Umframville  knight,  delivering  to  him  also  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  by  Ralph  Thresk  late 
escheator,  that  at  her  death  the  said  Margaret  held  the  said  manor  as 
jointly  enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased)  by  gift 
of  the  said  earl  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  with  reversion  for 
lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  earl  and  his  heirs,  that  the  said  Robert  and 
Margaret  are  dead  without  issue  wherefore  the  same  ought  by  the 
form  of  the  gift  to  revert  to  the  earl  and  his  heirs,  and  that  the  said 
manor  is  held  in  chief  by  knight  service. 

To  Gilbert  Culwen  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  to  remove  the 
king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Hesyll 
and  Paddokthorp  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Margaret's 
death,  delivering  any  issues  etc.  (as  the  last)  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisi- 
tion, taken  by  John  Sayville  late  escheator,  that  at  her  death  etc.  (as 
the  last,  mutatis  mutandis),  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than 
the  king. 

Nov.  25.  To  Gilbert  de  Culwen  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order  to 
Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  water  mill 
in  the  town  of  Ovyngham  and  a  fishery  in  the  river  Tyne  in  that  town 
and  the  town  of  Prudhowe  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Umframville  knight,  delivering 
to  Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of  Angos  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  it  is  found  by  inquisition;  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John 
Sayville  late  escheator,  that  at  her  death  the  said  Margaret  held  the 


49    EDWARD    III. 


181 


1375.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

premises  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased) 
by  virtue  of  a  gift  made  with  the  king's  licence  by  the  said  earl  to 
them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  after  a  term  of  14  years  which 
Robert  de  Tours  then  had  therein,  with  reversion  for  lack  of  such  an 
heir  to  the  earl  and  his  heirs,  that  the  said  Robert  [de  I'mframville] 
and  Margaret  are  dead  without  issue  and  the  said  term  is  expired, 
wherefore  the  premises  ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  revert  to  the 
earl  and  his  heirs,  and  that  the  same  are  held  in  chief  by  knight  service 
as  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Ovyngham. 

Dec.  3.  To  John  Karnels  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  Richard  Stury  knight  the  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Bernewelle  the 
reversion  whereof  after  the  death  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  John 
de  Ravenesholme  he  acquired  of  John  Dyn  of  Dounome,  being  yet  in 
the  king's  hand  after  her  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at 
her  death  the  said  Margarefheld  that  manor  in  chief  as  jointly  enfeoffed 
with  her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased)  by  gift  of  Henry  Pykerell 
chaplain  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  them  and  to  her  husband's 
heirs,  that  the  said  John  Dyn  son  of  Christiana  daughter  of  Margery 
sister  of  William  father  of  John  de  Ravenesholme,  being  cousin  and 
one  of  the  heirs  of  John  de  Ravenesholme,  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court  with  his  licence  granted  to  the  said  Richard  and  to  his  heirs  the 
reversion  of  the  moiety  of  that  manor  which  after  the  said  Margaret's 
death  ought  to  revert  to  him,  and  that  after  her  death  the  said 
Richard  with  the  king's  licence  acquired  the  other  moiety  of  John 
Dounome  son  of  Cicely  sister  of  the  said  William  father  of  John, 
being  cousin  and  the  other  heir  of  John  de  Ravenesholme  ;  and  the 
king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30801.] 

Nov.  26.  To  Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march  of 
Westminster.  Wales  adjacent.  Order  to  assign  to  Giles  Malore  and  Joan  his  wife 
dower  of  the  lands  of  Richard  Baskerville  knight,  sometime  husband 
of  the  said  Joan,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending 
the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  as  for  the  good 
service  of  the  said  Giles  in  regard  to  the  recovery  of  the  lands  of  the 
said  Richard,  a  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heirs  of  Humphrey 
de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and  of  WTilliam  de  Ferariis  tenants  in  chief, 
who  are  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  for  a  hue  which  he 
has  paid,  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  pardoned  him  the  trespass 
which  he  committed  by  taking  the  said  Joan  to  wife,  and  has  pardoned 
her  the  trespass  which  she  committed  by  marrying  him  without 
obtaining  the  king's  hcence. 

Dec.  12.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  to  cause  a  verderer  of  the  forest 
Westminster,  of  Dene  to  be  elected  instead  of  Walter  de  Augst,  if  he  be  dead  as  the 
king  has  learned. 

Dec.  14.  To  the  governor  and  guardian  of  Ireland  or  the  justiciary  of  Ireland, 

Westminster,  the    chancellor    and    treasurer   and   other    the    king's    ministers    there 

for  the    time    being    •oid    every    of    them.      Order    not     to    demise    or 

grant  to  farm  to  any  person  or  persons  of  whatsoever  e-tate 
any  lands  in  Ireland  pertaining  to  the  king  or  pared  thereof  before 
they  shall  be  fully  informed  by  the  escheator  in  Ireland  concerning 


182  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1875.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

the  true  value  of  the  same  ;  as  the  king  has  information  that  many 
and  divers  lands  for  divers  causes  pertaining  to  him,  being  taken  into 
his  hand  by  the  escheator  by  reason  of  his  office,  have  ofttimes  here- 
tofore been  and  are  yet  daily  being  demised  by  commissions  under  the 
king's  seal  of  Ireland  to  divers  persons  at  a  less  value  than  they  are 
"worth  a  year  and  before  the  king  is  by  the  escheator  informed  concern- 
ing their  value,  to  the  king's  hurt  and  loss.  The  king  has  charged 
the  escheator  to  take  into  his  hand  all  lands  demised  for  a  less  value 
than  they  are  worth  a  year  and  than  he  would  answer  at  the  exchequer, 
and  to  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  the  issues  and  profits  thereof. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  8. 

Nov.  20.         Robert  Haukyn,  Thomas  Ismonger,  Richard  Bukyngham,  Nicholas 
Westminster.  Hunmanby  and  John  Treweman  have  the  king's  letters  of  exchange 
addressed  to  Peter  Mark  merchant  of  Florence  dwelling  in  the  city  of 
London  for  payment  to  them  of  40?.  in  foreign  parts. 

Nov.  29.         William   Noioun   has   like   letters    addressed    to   Nicholas   Russell 
Westminster,  merchant  of  Florence  dwelling  in  the  city  of  London  for  payment 
to  him  of  12  marks  in  foreign  parts. 

Nov.  28.         Thomas  Hynton  has  like  letters  addressed  to  Peter  Mark  of  Lum- 
Westminster.  bardy    merchant   dwelling    in    the    city  of    London  for  payment  of 
5  marks  10s.  in  foreign  parts  to  Master  Robert  Suardeby. 

John  Sechefeld  vicar  of  Newerk  and  John  Elyot  have  like  letters 

addressed  to  John  Crede  merchant  of  Lumbardy  dwelling  in  the  said 

city  for  payment  to  them  of  20?.  in  foreign  parts. 

Nov.  28.         John  Brunne  of  Wyvelyngham  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John 
Westminster.  Crede  for  payment  to  him  of  20?.  in  foreign  parts. 

John  Cheyne  canon  of  Salisbury  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John 
Crede  for  payment  to  him  of  20?.  in  foreign  parts. 

Nov.  20.         Walter  de  Chippenham  has   like   letters  addressed  to  John  Crede 
Westminster,  for  payment  of   100  marks. 

Nov.  30.         Richard  Neuport  chaplain  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Crede 
Westminster,  for  payment  to  him  of  10?.  in  foreign  parts. 

Dec.  5.  John  Viel  of  Bristol  has  like  letters  addressed  to  Peter  Mark  merchant 

Westminster,  of  Lumbardy  for  payment  to  him  of  50?.  in  foreign  parts. 

Dec.  10.         John  Norwich  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Crede  for  payment 
Westminster,  of  11.  in  foreign  parts. 

John  de  Brampton  clerk  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Crede 
for  payment  of  40  marks  in  foreign  parts. 

Dec.  8.  John  de  Clifford  clerk  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Crede  for 

Westminster,  payment  of  40?.  in  foreign  parts. 


49   EDWARD   in. 


183 


1375.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

Dec  10.  Robert  de  Grafton  chaplain  and  William  de  Kyma  chaplain  have 

Westminster,  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Crede  for  payment  of  12/.  in  foreign 
parts. 

Dec.  12.  Sewall   de   Brounfeld   of   Writele,   John   Dykman.   John   Romayn. 

Westminster.  Geoffrey  Harolf,  Thomas  Stampe  and  William  Spayne  have  like  lett- 

addressed  to  Peter  Mark  for  payment  to  them  or  one  of  them  of  12/. 
in  foreign  parts. 

William  Blakson  chaplain  has  like  letters  addressed  to  Peter  Mark 
for  payment  of  10  marks  in  foreign  parts. 

Master  Henry  Pyel  has  like  letters  addressed  to  the  said  Peter  for 
payment  of  20  marks  in  foreign  parts. 

The  said  Master  Henry  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Crede  for 
payment  of  20  marks  to  John  Langton  in  foreign  parts. 

Dec.  20.  William  de  Aldenby  clerk  has  like  letters  addressed  to  Peter  Mark 

Westminster,  for  payment  of  10/.  in  foreign  parts. 

1376. 

Jan.  1.  Brother  John  de  Andriaco  monk  of  Holy  Trinity  priory  York  has 

Westminster,  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Crede  for  payment  of  5  marks  in  foreign 
parts. 

Jan.  3.  Ellis  Coterell  clerk  has  like  letters  addressed  to  John  Crede  for  pay- 

Westminster,  ment  of  20/.  in  foreign  parts. 

Brother  Robert  de  Brunne  monk  of  Peterborough  abbey  has  like 
letters  addressed  to  Peter  Mark  merchant  of  Lumbardy  dwelling  in 
the  city  of  London  for  payment  of  10/.  in  foreign  parts. 

Jan.  13.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  ports  of  Dovorre,  Sandewich 

Westminster,  and  the  river  Thames.  Order  to  suffer  Nicholas  Russell  proctor  of 
Richard  de  Sutton  master  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Bartholomew  Smethe- 
feld  London  freely  without  let  to  pass  in  one  of  the  said  ports  taking 
40s.  for  his  expenses,  any  command  of  the  king  to  them  addressed 
to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  he  is  about  to  Journey  towards 
the  court  of  Rome  with  the  king's  licence  to  further  certain  busin 
of  the  said  master  there. 

The  said  Richard  has  the  king's  letters  of  exchange  addressed  to 
Nicholas  Russell  merchant  of  Florence  for  pa\  ment  of  100/.  to  his 
proctor. 

1375.  Membrane  7. 

Dec.  14.  To  John  Welde  escheator  in  Hertfordshire.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Maydeorofl 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wif< 
Edward  de  Kendale  the  elder  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  kings  command  bj 
Roger  Keteryeh  Late  escheator,  thai  at  her  death  she  held  do  land-. 
in  chief  in  hex  demesne  as  of  fee,  bul  held  the  said  manor  for  life  ol 
the  right  and  heritage  of  Edward  de  Keodale  the  younger  being  SOU 


184 


<  ALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375. 


Membrane  7 — cont. 

and  heir  of  her  said  husband,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
the  said  Edward  the  son  granted  the  remainder  thereof  after  her 
death  to  William  Croyser   knight  and  others,  and   that  the  same 


is 


not  held  of  the  king. 


Dec.  10. 

Westminster. 


To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Order  to  deliver 
to  John  son  of  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  to  Eleanor  his  wife  the 
manors  of  Sharnton,  Codeford,  Boy  ton  and  Corton,  a  moiety  of  the 
manor  of  Stapelford,  and  the  advowson  of  Boyton  church  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Mautravers 
the  elder,  together  with  the  issues  taken  of  the  said  manors  and  moiety  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Agnes  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her 
demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence 
held  the  manors  of  Sharnton  and  Codeford  and  the  said  moiety  in 
chief  by  knight  service,  the  manors  of  Boyton  and  Corton  and  the  said 
advowson  of  others  than  the  king,  to  her  and  her  said  husband  (likewise 
deceased)  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of 
such  issue  to  the  said  John  son  of  Richard  and  the  said  Eleanor  daughter 
of  John  son  of  the  said  John  Mautravers  (both  yet  living)  and  to 
the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  said  John  Mautravers  and 
Agnes  died  without  issue  of  their  bodies,  wherefore  the  premises 
ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to  the  said  John  son  of  Richard 
and  Eleanor  ;  and  the  king  has  respited  until  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary 
next  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  John  son  of  Richard. 

To  Edmund  de  Brugges  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Like  order, 
mutatis  mutandis  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's 
command  by  John  Serjeant  late  escheator,  that  Agnes  who  was  wife  of 
John  Mautravers  the  elder  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 
in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
with  his  licence  held  the  manor  of  Kyngestanlegh  in  chief  by  knight 
service,  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands  of  others  than  the  king 
to  her  and  her  said  husband  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  etc.  (as  above). 

To  John  Hale  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset.  Like  order  in 
regard  to  all  the  manors  and  lands  in  his  bailiwick  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Mautravers  the 
elder  ;  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by 
Walter  Cyfrewast  late  escheator,  that  at  her  death  she  held  no  lands 
etc.  (as  above)  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence 
held  the  manor  of  Estmordon  co.  Dorset  in  chief  by  the  service  of 
8s.  a  year  payable  at  Michaelmas  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff,  and 
the  manors  of  Frome  Wytefeld  and  Worthe  in  Purbyk  by  knight 
service  of  the  heirs  of  the  earl  of  Hereford  being  within  age  and 
in  the  king's  wardship,  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands  in 
those  counties  of  others  than  the  king,  to  her  and  her  said  husband 
and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  etc.  (as  above,  mutatis  mutandis)  ; 
and  the  king  of  his  favour  has  respited  the  fealty  of  John  son  of 
[Richard]  earl  of  [Arundell]  until  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next. 

To  the  true  men  of  the  town  of  Chippenham  co.  Wiltesir.     Order 
Westminster,  to  desist  henceforth  from  levying  and  collecting  the  customs  hereinafter 


Dec.  9. 

Westminster. 


1376. 

Jan.  9. 


49    EDWARD    III.  185 


1376-  Membrane  7 — cont. 

mentioned,  causing  all  moneys  thereof  heretofore  taken  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  letters  patent  to  be  laid  out  in  repairing  the  town  bridj 
although  on  4  October  last  in  aid  of  the  repair  of  the  said  l>n<! 
which  is  broken  and  ruinous  to  the  nuisance  of  all  the  country  adjacent 
as  he  was  then  informed  on  their  behalf,  the  king  by  letters  patent. 
to  endure  for  two  years  granted  the  said  men  certain  customs  to  In- 
collected,  levied  and  taken  by  the  hands  of  those  whom  they  should 
depute  for  the  purpose  of  certain  goods  and  merchandise  coming  to 
that  town  for  sale,  so  that  the  moneys  thereof  arising  should  be  wholly 
laid  out  upon  such  repairs  and  not  put  to  any  other  use  whatsoever  : 
as  the  king  has  revoked  his  said  letters  patent,  because  on  behalf 
of  Elizabeth  Gasselyn,  lad}'  of  that  town  as  it  is  said,  information 
has  now  newly  been  given  to  the  king  that  his  grant  so  made  redound- 
to  her  disherison  and  to  the  annulment  of  her  fair  and  market  there 
enjoyed  from  old  time. 
Et  erat  patens. 

1375. 

Dec.  10.  To  Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  John  son  of  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  to  Eleanor  his  wife  the 
moiety  of  the  manor  of  Eyleston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Mautravers  the  elder,  together 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Agnes  at  her  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said 
moiety  in  chief  by  knight  service  by  gift  of  Robert  Sambourne  chaplain 
and  John  de  Coston  chaplain  made  with  the  king's  licence  to  her 
and  her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased)  and  to  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  said  John  son 
of  Richard  and  to  Eleanor  daughter  of  John  son  of  the  said  John 
Mautravers  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  said  Agnes 
and  her  husband  are  dead  without  issue  of  their  bodies,  wherefore 
the  same  ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to  the  said  John  son 
of  Richard  and  to  the  said  Eleanor  whom  he  has  taken  to  wife  ;  and 
the  king  of  his  favour  has  respited  until  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary 
next  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  John  son  of  Richard.         By  K. 

Membrane  6. 

Oct.  28.  To  Roger  Ketcrych  escheator  in  Essex  (sic).  Order  to  remove  the  king's 

Westminster,  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  w  it li  a  messuage,  -17  acres  of  land  and 
3acres  of  meadow  in  Thorlegh  (Thorleye)andSabrichesworth  delivering 
to  the  abbot  of  Walden  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  by  let! 
patent  the  king  gave  licence  to  John  de  Cherteeey  and  Robert  he 
parson  of  Keyngham  to  give  and  assign  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Walden  and  to  their  successors  a  m.  ssuagi  and  80  acres  of  land  thi 
in  part  of  40  marks  of  land  and  rents  which  by  former  letters  patent 
the  king  gave  them  licence  to  acquire  :  and  alter  on  16  February 
in  the  48th  year  of  the   reign   the  abbot    petitioned  the  kin-   to,    aid, 

as  '■'>  acres  of  meadovi  are  parcel  of  the  said  land,  and  the  same  with 

the   said    meSSUage   and    the    residue   Of    the    land    were    taken    into    the 

king's  hand  by  John  Bataille  late  escheator,  pretending  that  the  same 
were  acquired  without  the  king's  licence,  for  thai  in  the  letters  patent  they 
are  bj  negligence  specified  as  land  and  not  as  meadow,  and  S3  line  with 
him  made  by  the  said  abbot  the  king  of  his  favour  l>\  other  letten  patent 


180 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375. 


Membrane  6 — cont. 


pardoned  the  trespasses  therein  committed,  granting  that  the  abbot 
and  convent  should  have  again  and  hold  to  them  and  their  successors 
as  well  the  said  messuage  and  77  acres  of  land  as  the  said  3  acres  of 
meadow  in  part  of  the  40  marks  in  the  first  grant  contained  ;  and 
later  the  abbot  petitioned  the  king  for  restitution,  shewing  that 
although  the  king  pardoned  the  trespasses  aforesaid  the  abbot  is 
ousted  from  the  premises  by  colour  of  certain  letters  patent  whereby 
the  king  granted  to  William  Cranford  for  life  the  keeping  of  the  aforesaid 
messuage,  47  acres  of  land  and  3  acres  of  meadow  which  were  in  the 
king's  hand  for  that  Thomas  de  Benyngton  monk  of  Walden  abbey 
without  the  king's  licence  acquired  them  of  John  de  Cherteseye,  and 
that  by  virtue  of  that  grant  the  said  William  collected  and  took  the 
issues  and  profits  thereof,  being  parcel  of  the  messuage,  77  acres 
of  land  and  3  acres  of  meadow  aforesaid,  contrary  to  the  letters  patent 
made  to  the  said  abbot,  wherefore  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  of 
Hertford  to  give  the  said  William  notice  to  be  in  chancery  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Trinity  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  king  ought  not  to 
take  the  premises  again  into  his  hands  and  restore  them  to  the  abbot 
with  the  issues  thereof  taken  by  the  said  William  in  the  mean  time, 
and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine,  at 
which  day  for  particular  causes  a  day  was  given  to  the  parties  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  last ;  at  which  day  the  abbot  being  there  in 
person  the  said  Nicholas  (sic)  by  his  attorney,  and  Michael  Skillyng 
who  sues  for  the  king,  by  due  process  first  had  it  was  determined  that 
the  premises  should  be  restored  to  the  abbot,  with  the  issues  as  afore- 
said, to  hold  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  to  him  formerly 
made. 

Nov.  27.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Asshe, 
Faucham,  Chellesfeld,  Esthalle,  Kemsyng  and  le  Sele,  the  advowson 
of  Kemsyng  and  le  Sele  excepted,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the 
death  of  Thomas  de  Grandessone  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  by  divers  fines  levied  in  the  king's  court  the 
said  deceased  at  his  death  held  those  manors  with  the  exception 
aforesaid  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  with  remainder  for  lack  of 
such  an  heir  to  William  de  Briene  (yet  living)  son  of  Guy  de  Briene 
and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  that  the  said  Thomas  died  without  issue, 
wherefore  the  premises  with  that  exception  ought  by  the  form  of 
those  fines  to  remain  to  the  said  William,  and  that  the  same  are  held 
of  others  than  the  king. 
1376. 

Jan.  10.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton  to  cause  two  verderers  in  the 
Westminster,  forest  of  Chuyt  to  be  elected  instead  of  Ralph  de  Clatford  and  John 
Faukener,  if  they  be  dead  as  the  king  has  learned. 

Jan.  18.  To  Henry  de  Mordon.  Order  to  sell  as  best  he  may  one  pipe  con- 
Westminster,  taining  a  small  quantity  of  white  wine  to  his  keeping  delivered  on  the 
king's  behalf,  answering  at  the  exchequer  for  what  may  be  levied 
thereof  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  Hugh  de  Ryngebourne  lately 
took  the  said  pipe  at  sea  among  other  goods  and  merchandise  from 
a  tarit  of  Genoa  (Janua),  Cateloigne  or  Naples,  and  it  was  delivered  to 
the  said  Henry  as  aforesaid.  By  C. 


40    EDWARD    III. 


is: 


Jan.  15. 

Westminster. 


1375. 

Oct.  28. 
Westminster. 


1376.  Membrane  6 — cent. 

•  Ian.  16.  To  John  Stanhope.     Order  not  to  meddle  further  in  the  office  of 

Westminster,  justice  of  oyer  and  terminer  and  guardian  of  the  peace  in  Nbtyngham- 
shire,  although  the  king  lately  appointed  him  and  certain  other  lieges 
to  that  office  and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  their  commission 
contained  ;  as  for  particular  causes  laid  hefore  the  council  the  king 
has   removed   him.  By  C. 

The  like  to  Thomas  de  Staunton. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  ele< 
instead  of  Ralph  Lynton,  if  he  be  dead  as  the  king  has  learned. 

The  like  to  the  same  sheriff  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of  John 
Aylesham  deceased. 

To  the  bailiffs  of  Hungreford  of  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon. 
Order  to  desist  from  bringing  distresses,  disturbances  and  grievances 
as  hereinafter  rehearsed  upon  the  prior  of  St.  Fridesu  yde's  Oxford, 
suffering  him  to  hold  the  manor  of  Hudden  and  town  of  Edeneton 
quit  and  discharged  of  aids  tow  aids  marrying  the  said  king's  daughters, 
and  to  have  the  cattle  called  '  wayf  '  in  the  said  manor  and  town  as 
he  ought  to  do  according  to  the  charter  of  Edmund  sometime  earl  of 
Lancastre  andLeycestre  and  the  late  king's  confirmation,  and  as  he  and 
his  predecessors  have  been  used  to  do  since  that  time,  and  releasing  any 
distresses  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  the  said  earl  by  charter,  confirmed  by 
the  late  king,  among  other  things  granted  to  the  church  of  St.  Frideswyde 
and  the  canons  there  in  frank  almoin  the  said  manor  and  town  without 
any  secular  service,  demand  or  contribution  to  the  earl  or  his  heirs,  as 
his  ancestors  granted  the  same  to  the  said  canons  ;  and  now  by  com- 
plaint of  the  now  prior  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  although  by  virtue  of 
the  said  charter  and  confirmation  the  prior  ought  to  hold  the  premises 
quit  of  such  aids  and  of  other  secular  services  whatsoever,  and  to 
have  the  cattle  aforesaid  therein,  and  although  he  and  his  predecessors 
since  the  date  of  the  said  charter  and  confirmation  have  heretofore 
been  used  so  to  do,  the  said  bailiffs  are  distraining  him  by  reason  of 
the  said  manor  and  town  for  aids  towards  marrying  their  lord's  eldest 
daughter,  as  if  he  held  the  same  by  knight  service  which  he  does  not, 
are  demanding  the  cattle  aforesaid  to  their  lord's  use,  and  are  unlaw- 
fully troubling  the  prior,  contrary  to  the  said  charter. 

Membrane  5. 

Nov.  11.  To  John  Rokwode  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order  to 
Westminster,  deliver  in  dower  to  Anne  who  was  wife  of  John  de  BastyngSS  earl  of 
Pembroke  tenant  in  chief  such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  following 
manors  and  lands  of  her  said  husband  which  the  king  has  assigned 
to  her,  having  taken  of  her  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without 
his  licence;  namely  the  manor  of  Sutton  extended  at  l'I/.  2s.  Sd.  a 
year,  the  manor  of  'Wviiferthyng  at    \'M.   L8*.   !</..  the  manor  of  Asshole 

at  «;/.  fa.  Sd.  in  Norffolk,  the  manor  of  Lydgate  at  91.  4s.,  the  manor  of 
Badmondeefeld  at  \l.  6s.,  the  manor  of  Otteleye  at  li>  marks,  the 
manor  of  Wridlyngton  with  three  bin  in  the  town  of  St.  Edmunds 

at    tin,,   in   Suffolk;     the  manor  of  Thoryton  at    1/.   7*.,   the  manor  of 

Bsthanyngfeld   with  divers  other  lands   m   Weethanyngfeld   thereto 

pertaining  .it    I'''/.    I  _'  ..  tin-  manor  of  Sont  han\  iiL'feld  with  other  lands 

m  Pangea  thereto  belonging  at  4/.  3s.  id.  in  E      i  ;    the  manor  of 

Totenham   at   20/.    in    Middlesex;     the    manors    of    Padyngdeo    and 


188  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

West  cote  and  a  tenement  in  Suthwerk  at  24/.  in  Surrey  ;  the  manor 
of  Benham  at  10/.  in  Berkshire  ;  divers  lands  in  Fitelton  at  13s.  4c/. 
in  Wiltesir,  the  manor  of  Brampton  at  78Z.  18s.  4c/.,  and  the  manor 
of  Lymyng  at  66s.  Sc/.  in  Huntingdonshire  ;  the  manor  of  Great 
Shelford  at  10/.  14s.  10c/.  in  Cambridgeshire,  the  manor  of  Blounham 
at  20/..  and  the  manor  of  Kempston  at  24/.  in  Bedfordshire  ;  certain 
lands  in  the  town  of  Repyngdon  at  41.  in  Derbyshire  ;  the  manor  of 
Allesleye  at  22/.  13s.  6c/.,  the  manor  of  Filongleye  at  13/.  12s.,  the  manor 
of  Aston  Cauntelowe  at  39/.  21c/.,  and  the  manor  of  Pillardyngton 
at  4/.  13s.  4c/.  in  Warwickshire  ;  and  the  manor  of  Nayleston  extended 
at  11/.  12c/.  a  j7ear  in  Leycestershire. 

To  John  de  Bel<yngham  escheator  in  Derbyshire.  Order  to  deliver 
in  dower  to  the  said  Anne  certain  lands  in  the  town  of  Repyngdon 
extended  at  4/.  a  year. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

John  atte  Welde  escheator  in  Essex,  concerning  the  manors  of 
Thoryton,  Esthanyngfeld  with  lands  in  Westhanyngfeld,  and 
Southanyngfeld  with  lands  in  Fanges. 

Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Middlesex  and  Surrey,  concerning 
the  manors  of  Totenham  co.  Middlesex,  Padyngden  and  West- 
cote  co.  Surrey,  and  a  tenement  in  Suthwerk. 

Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltesir,  concerning 
the  manor  of  Benham  co.  Berkes  and  divers  lands  in  Fitelton 
co.  Wiltesir. 

Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Huntingdonshire,  Cambridgeshire 
and  Bedfordshire,  concerning  the  manors  of  Brampton  and 
Lymyng  co.  Huntingdon,  Great  Shelford,  co.  Cantebrigge, 
Blounham  and  Kempston  co.  Bedford. 

Walter  Holt  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire, 
concerning  the  manors  of  Allesleye,  Filongleye,  Aston  Caunte- 
lowe and  Pillardyngton  co.  Warrewyk,  and  Nayleston  co. 
Leycester. 

Dec.  11.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  governor  and  guardian  of  Ireland  or  his 

Westminster,  representative,  and  to  the  chancellor  of  Ireland.  Order  to  assign 
and  deliver  to  Anne  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pem- 
broke tenant  in  chief  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  in  Ireland, 
with  the  issues  thereof  from  this  date,  sending  the  assignment  under 
the  seal  used  in  Ireland  to  be  enrolled  in  the  chancery  of  England  ; 
as  the  king  has  taken  of  her  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without 
his  licence,  and  has  caused  dower  to  be  assigned  her  of  the  said 
earl's  lands   in   England. 

The   like   to  William   Ilger  escheator  in   Ireland. 

Nov.  12.  To  John  Rokwode  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order  to 
Westminster,  deliver  of  the  king's  gift  to  Anne  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Hastynges 
earl  of  Pembroke  last  deceased  the  issues  from  the  said  earl's  death 
to  this  date  of  the  manors  of  Sutton,  Wynferthyng  and  Asshele 
co.  Norffolk,  Lydgate,  Badmondesfeld,  Otteleye  'and  Wridlyngton,  and 
of  three  burgages  in  the  town  of  St.  Edmund  co.  Suffolk  to  her 
assigned  in  dower  ;  as  of  his  favour  the  king  has  granted  her  the  issues 
from  the  said  earl's  death  to  the  date  of  livery  thereof  of  all  lands 
of  her  dower  as  well  in  England  as  in  Wales.  By  p.s.  [30774.] 


49    KDWARD    III.  L89 


1375.  Mi  a  brant  5 — cont. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 
John  atte  Welde  escheater  in  Essex,  concerning  the  issues  of  the 
manors  of  Thoryton.  Esthanyngfeld  with  lands  in  Weethanyng- 
feld,  and  Southanyngfeld  with   lands  In  Fanges.  By  djb. 

Thomas  de  llleston  escheatoi  in  Middlesex  and  Surrey,  concerning 
the  issues  of  the  manors  of  Totenham  oo.  Middlesex,  Padyngden 

and  Westcote  co.  Surrey  and  of  a  tenement  in  Suthwerk.    r>v  p.s. 

Oliver  de  Harnham  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltesir,  concern- 
ing the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Benham  co.  Bellas  and  of  Lai 
in  Fitelton  co.  Wiltesir.  By  p.s. 

Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Huntingdonshire,  Cambridgeshire 
and  Bedfordshire,  concerning  the  issues  of  the  manors  of 
Brampton  and  Lymyng  co.  Huntingdon,  (heat  Shelford  co. 
Cantebrigge,  Blounham  and  Kempston  co.   Bedford.     By  p.s. 

John  de  Bekyngham  escheator  in  Derbyshire,  concerning  the 
issues  of  certain  lands  in  the  town  of  Repyngdon.  By  p.s. 

Walter  Holt  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire, 
concerning  the  issues  of  the  manors  of  Allesleye,  Filongleye, 
Aston  Cauntelowe  and  Pillardyngton  co.  Warrewyk,  and 
Nayleston  co.  Leycester.  By  p.s. 

1376.  Membrane  4. 

Jan.  24.  To  John  Carneles  escheator  in  Nbrhamptonshire.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  in  dower  to  Anne  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Hastynges  ear]  of  IVm- 
broch  tenant  in  chief  such  as  arc  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  knights'  f< 
and  parts  of  fees  following  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her,  namely 
three  fourths  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Braunfeld  in  Great  Houghton  in  tin- 
said  county  held  by  William  la  Zouche  the  younger  knight  and  ex- 
tended at  100s.  a  year,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Braunfeld, 
Little  Houghton,  Horton  and  Great  Houghton  held  by  the  said  William 
at  40s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Braunfeld,  Houghton  and 
Little  Dodyngton  held  by  the  said  William  at  40*.,  one  knight's  fee  in 
Haklynton  and  Pidyngton  held  by  Thomas  de  Preston  knight  at  100s., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Preston,  Hakelton,  Horton.  Pydyngton,  Quynton 
and  Wotton  held  by  the  said  Thomas  at  12/..  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Haniton  and  Boketon  held  by  the  said  Thomas  at  40a.,  and  the 
moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Weston  Fauvel  and  Little  Billyng  held 
by  the  said  Thomas  at  40s.,  the  fourth  pari  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Newton  by  Geidyngton  held  by  John  de  Mulsho  at  60*.,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Starston  held  by  the  heir  of  the  ear]  of  Aumarele  at  167.,  the 
moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Pedyngton  held  by  Reynold  de  Grey  it 
40s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Eston  and  Boseyate  held  by 
the  said  Reynold  at  L0*.,  the  moiety  of  One  knight's  fee  inTuyudl  held  by 
the  said  Reynold  at  20s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hardyngesthorn 
and  Coten  held  by  the  abbess  of  St.  Mary  (ft  Pratia  and  William  I.oml) 
at  10*.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  tee  in  Barton  held  by  the  said  abb 

and  John  CarnelT  at  40s..  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Cogenho 
held  by  William  de  Cogenho  at  10*.,  the  moiety  of  one  knighl  -  fee 
in  I  in  M  Houghton  and  Horton  held  by  Thomas  I  Irene  knighl  Richard 
de  Houghton  and  John   Dalton  clerk  a;    10*.,  two  knight  in 

As.-hehy  Davy  and  dendon  held  by  the  -aid  Thomfl  '  \Ql.,  the 
sixth  part  ot  one  knight's  fee  in  <  ovat  DodyngtOD  held  by  the  heir 
of    Robert   Campana    at    10s.,  the    fourth   pari    of   one    knight'.-  fee 


190  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

in    Wolde  and    Helcote  held    by  the  abbot    of    Pippewelle  at    205., 
the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Herdwyk  held  by  the  heirs  of 
John  Barry  at  20s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Barton 
held  by  the   heir   of  William  Carnell'  at  20s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Great  Dodyngton  held  by  the  heirs  of  Peregrine  Bernad 
at  13s.  4c/.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Boseyate  held  by  William  Latymer  at 
20  marks,  the  twentieth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Wolaston  held  by 
William  de  Wolaston  at  5s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Quynton 
held  by  Philip  de  Quynton  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Ruston  held 
by  John  Carnell'  at  20/.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Draughton 
held  by  the  heir  of  John  Moigne  at  20s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Braybrok  held  by  Thomas  le  Latymer  at  10  marks,  the  third  part 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Scaldewelle,  Houghton,  Langeport  and  Upthorp 
held  by  the  heir  of  Thomas  Verdoun  at  20s.,  one  knight's  fee  in 
Waldegrave  and  Bateshalehulle  held  by  Richard  de  Waldegrave  at 
20?.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hanyngton  held  by  John 
Warden  at  10s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Herdwyk  held  by 
Thomas  Seymour  at  20s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Neuton 
and  Boughton  by  Geidyngton  formerly  held  by  the  heirs  of  Henry 
Techemerch  and  of  William  Seymour  at  20s.,   one  knight's  fee  in 
Haryngworth  held  by  William  la  Zouch  the  elder  at  20/.,  one  knight's 
fee   in   Stokebrewere   and  Aldryngton   held   by   Isabel   Seint  Johan, 
Richard  Wideville  and  John  Chastiloun  at   100s..   the  fourth  part 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hynton,  Twywell  and  Wuthton  held  by  the 
heir  of  Richard  Brey  and  by  John  Veer  at  60s.,  one  knight's  fee  in 
Holcote  and  Wolde  held  by  the  prior  of  St.  Andrew,  the  heirs  of  Andrew 
Landwath  and  the  abbot  of   Pippewelle  at  100s.,  the  fourth  part  of 
one  knight's  fee  in   Rethersthorp  held  by  the  master  of  St.  John 
Norhampton  at  40s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Multon  held  by  Ralph  Basset 
of  Drayton  at  20/. ;   the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Appelby 
co.  Leycester  held  by  William  de  Appelby  at  50s.,  one  knight's  fee  and 
a  half  in  Ibestoke  held  by  John  Verdoun  and  John  Burdet  at  20?., 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Normanton  held  by  Robert  de  Stipelton 
at  10/.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Wistowe  and  Flekeneye  held  by  Ralph 
de  Hastyng  at  20/.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Cosseby  held 
by  John  Burdet  at  53s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Shacreston 
held  by  John  de  Shepey  and  Walter  Dauvers  at  6/.  13s.  4c/.,  the  fourth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Snarkeston  held  by  Simon  de  Bereford  at  50s., 
the  sixteenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Barton  held  by  Ralph  Halewey 
at  10s.,  the  moiet}^  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Aston  and  Stapilton  held  by 
Robert  Flamville  at  6/.  13s.  4c/. ,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Leyre 
held  by  John  de  Leyre  at  100s.,  the   fourth  part  of   one  knight's 
fee    in    Odyston    held    by    John    Verdoun    at     40s.,     the     fourth 
part   of    one    knight's    fee    in    Snarkeston    held    by   Geoffrey   Stake 
and    his    parceners    at    52s.,    the    moiety    of    one    knight's    fee    in 
Swepiston    and    Newton    held    by    John    Longeville    at    100s.,    one 
knight's  fee  in  Sutton  and  Stapilton  held  by  Walter  Houby  at  15/., 
one  knight's  fee  in  Osolveston   held  by  the  abbot  of  Osolveston  at 
13/.  6s.  8c/.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Dadelyngton  held  by 
Remigius  de  Meulynges  at  10/.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Conyngeston  held 
by  William  de  Shepe}^e  at  15/.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Adelokston  held 
by  John  de  Bagepuz  at  18/.,  the  twentieth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Heygham  held  by  John  Danet  at  10s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Moselowe  and  Barewelle  held  by  John  Hertwelle  at  100s.,  the 


49    EDWARD    III.  191 


1376.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

tenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Stapilton  held  hy  Rohert  de  Stapilton 
at  20s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Stratton  held  by  the  earl  of  Albemarle  at 
15/.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Market  Overton  held  by  Gilbert  de 
Humflamville  at  15/.;  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Braumfeld 
by  Turvej'e  co.  Bukingham  held  by  Henry  Grey  of  Sherlond  at  60*., 
the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Clifton  and  Neuton  held  by 
Ralph  Basset  '  le  Riche  '  at  535.  4c/.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Embixton 
held  by  Henry  Grene  at  10/.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Pettesho 
held  by  Richard  Chaumberleyn  at  6/.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's 
fee   in   Cranden    by    Tame    sometime    held    by    John    Segrave    at 

Membrane  3. 

50s.  ;  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Monselowe  and  Aston  co. 
Salop  held  by  Richard  Hertwell  at  4/.  6s.  8c/.  ;  the  sixth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Shefhull  co.  Warrewyk  held  by  William  Walssh  at 
26s.  8d.  ;  the  twelfth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Northwytham  co. 
Lincoln  held  by  the  abbot  of  Bitelesden  at  3s.  4c/.  ;  five  knights'  fees 
in  Carre  we  in  the  march  of  Wales  held  by  John  de  Carre  we  at  25/., 
the  moiety  and  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Hoggeston  held 
by  William  de  Rupere  at  100s..  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Esse 
sometime  held  by  William  Malenfaunt  at  50s.,  2i  knight-'  fees  in 
Weston  held  by  William  de  Staunton  and  Matthias  Wogan  at  12/.  10s., 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Jordaneston  sometime  held  by  John 
Joce  at  50s.,  the  tenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Torre  sometime 
held  by  John  Wogan  at  10s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Coytrach 
sometime  held  by  Andrew  Weseman  at  50s.,  and  the  service  of  John 
Champaigne,  John  Vaghan  and  John  Coke  for  five  bovatcs  of  land  in 
Nant'  in  the  said  march  extended  at  8s.  a  year. 

To  Walter  Holt  escheator  in  Leicestershire.  Order  to  deliver  in 
dower  to  the  said  Anne  the  knights'  fees  and  parts  of  fees  following 
which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her,  namely  the  fourth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Appelby  held  by  William  de  Appelby,  one  knight's 
fee  and  a  half  in  Ibestoke  held  by  John  Verdoun  and  John  Burdet, 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Normanton  held  by  Hoi  nit  deStipelton, 
one  knight's  fee  in  Wistowe  and  Flekeney  held  by  Ralph  de  Eastyng, 
the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Cosseby  held  by  John  Burdet ,  the 
moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Shacreston  held  by  John  de  Shepeye 
and  Walter  Dauvers,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Snarkeston 
held  by  Simon  de  Bereford,  the  sixteenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Barton  held  by  Ralph  Halcwey,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee 
in  Aston  and  Stapilton  held  by  Robert  Flamville,  the  moiety  of 
one  knight's  fee  in  Leyre  held  by  John  de  Leyre,  the  four!  b  pari  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Odyston  held  by  John  Verdoun,  the  fourth  part  of 
one  knight's  fee  in  Snarkeston  held  by  Geoffrey  Stake  and  his  parceni 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Swepiston  and  Neuton  held  by  John 
Longeville,  one  knight's  fee  in  Sutton  and  Stapilton  held  by  Walter 
Houby,  one  knight's  fee  in  Osolveston  held  by  the  abbot  of  Osolveeton, 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Dadelyngton  held  by  Remigiua  de 
Meulynges,  one  knight's  fee  in  Conyngeston  held  bj  William  de  Shepeye, 
one  knight's  fee  in  Adelokiston  held  bj  John  de  Bagepus,  the  twentieth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Eeygham  held  by  John  Danet,  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  feo  in  Moselowe  and  Barcwelle  held  by  John  HertweUe, 


192  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  3 — cord. 

the  tenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Stapilton  held  by  Robert  de 
Stapilton,  one  knight's  fee  in  Stratton  held  by  the  earl  of  Albemarle, 
and  one  knight's  fee  in  Market  Overton  held  by  Gilbert  de  Huraflam- 
ville,  extended   severally  (as  above). 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire,  concerning  the 
fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Braunfeld  by  Turveye  held 
by  Henry  Grey  of  Sherlond,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Clifton  and  Neuton  held  by  Ralph  Basset  'le  Riche/ 
one  knight's  fee  in  Embirton  held  by  Henry  Grene,  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Pettesho  held  by  Richard  Chaumberleyn, 
and  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Cranden  by  Tame 
sometime  held  by  John  Segrave. 

William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop  and  the  march  of  Wales 
adjacent,  concerning  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Monselowe 
and  Aston  held  by  Richard  Hertwell. 

Walter  Holt  escheator  in  Warwickshire,  concerning  the  sixth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Shefhull  held  by  William  Walssh. 

John  D3onmok  escheator  in  Lincolnshire,  concerning  the  twelfth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Northwytham  held  by  the  abbot  of 
Bitelesden. 

Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march 
of  Wales  adjacent,  concerning  five  knights'  fees  in  Carrewe 
held  by  John  de  Carrewe,  the  moiety  and  the  fourth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Hoggeston  held  by  William  de  Rupere,  the 
moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Esse  sometime  held  by  William 
Malenfaunt,  2|  knights'  fees  in  Weston  held  by  William  de 
Staunton  and  Matthias  Wogan,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Jordaneston  sometime  held  by  John  Joce,  the  tenth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Torre  sometime  held  by  John  Wogan, 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Coytrach  sometime  held  by 
Andrew  Weseman,  and  the  service  of  John  Champaigne,  John 
Vaghan  and  John  Coke  for  five  bovates  of  land  in  Nant', 
extended  severally  (as  above). 

Membrane  2. 

Jan.  24.  To  John  Camels  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  in  dower  to  Anne  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroch 
such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  her  said  husband's  advowsons  following 
which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her,  namely  the  advowsons  of  Yerdele 
church  in  that  county  extended  at  40  marks  a  year,  of  Wotton  church 
at  20  marks,  of  Fulbroke  church  co.  Warrewyk  at  41.,  of  Nayleston 
church  co.  Leycester  at  30L,  of  Sutton  Valence  church  co.  Kent  at 
10Z.,  of  Brumstede  church  co.  Norffolk  at  100s.,  of  Thoryton  church 
co.  Essex  at  100s.,  of  Blounham  church  co.  Bedford  at  40  marks,  of 
Pembroke  priory  in  the  march  of  Wales  at  40?.,  of  Pencrich  church  in 
the  said  march  at  60s.,  of  Lanvharell  church  in  the  said  march  extended 
at  41.  a  year,  and  of  Berwyk  chantry  co.  Somerset  which  is  not 
extended. 

To  Walter  Holt  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 
Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  the  said  Anne  the  advowsons  of  Fulbroke 
church  co.  Warrewyk  and  Nayleston  church  co.  Leycester,  extended 
severally  (as  above),  which  among  others  the  king  has  assigned  to  her. 


49    EDWARD    I  IT.  193 


1376.  Membrane  2 — cont. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent,  concerning  the  advowson 

of  Sutton  Valence  church. 
John  de  Rokewode  escheator  in  Norffolk,  concerning  the  advowson 

of  Brumstede  church. 
John   Welde   escheator  in  Essex,   concerning  the   advowson  of 

Thoryton  church. 
Thomas    Sewale    escheator    in    Bedfordshire,     concerning    the 

advowson  of  Blounham  church. 
Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march 

of    Wales    adjacent,    concerning    the    advowsons    of    Penorich 

church,    Lanvhanell   church   and   Pembroke   priory,   extended 

severally  (as  above). 
John  atte  Hale  escheator  in  Somerset,  concerning  the  advowson 

of  Berwyk  chantry. 

1375.  Membrane  1. 

Dec.  22.  To  John  de  Bekyngham  escheator  in  Notynghamshire.  Order  to 
Westminster,  cause  William  de  Hampsterley  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  daughter  of 
William  son  of  Geoffrey  de  Staunton  tenant  in  chief  and  cousin  and 
heir  of  the  said  Geoffre.y,  to  have  seisin  of  her  said  grandfather's  lands 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  she  has  proved  her  age 
before  Gilbert  de  Culwenn  escheator  in  Yorkshire,  and  the  king  has 
taken  her  said  husband's  fealty. 

Dec.  26.  To  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  Roger  de  Fulthorp,  John  de  Dent,  Thomas 

Westminster,  de  Sandford  and  Hugh  de  Westwyk.  Order  not  to  proceed  without 
advising  the  king  to  take  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  which  Robert  prior 
of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  has  arraigned  against 
John  de  Bulkham  mayor  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and  others  concerning 
tenements  in  Fenham,  although  the  king  lately  appointed  them  Justices 
for  the  purpose  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  all  the 
commonalty  of  the  said  town  petition  is  made  to  the  king  to  provide 
a  remedy  for  their  indemnification,  shewing  that  the  tenements  put 
in  view  are  and  have  been  time  out  of  mind  of  the  soil  of  the  said  mayor, 
bailiffs  and  commonalty  pertaining  to  them  as  parcel  of  the  town, 
so  that  if  such  proceeding  should  be  taken,  there  might  easily  arise 
prejudice  and  disherison  to  the  king,  diminution  of  the  farm  of  the 
town,  and  the  ruin  of  their  estate.  By  C. 

Dec.  15.  To   Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in   Bedfordshire.     Order  to  deliver 

Westminster,  to  William  Croyser  the  manor  of  Wrastlyngworth  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  for  t lie  causes  hereinafter  mentioned  ;  as  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  by  the  escheator  taken  of  his  office,  thai  Edward  de  Kcndale 
the  younger  deceased  lately  granted  to  the  said  William,  John  Joeep 
chaplain  and  John  llenwyk  chaplain  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  John 
Josep  tin-  remainder  of  the  said  manor,  being  held  in  chief  by  the 
terries  of  the  sixth  part  of  one  knight  s  fee  and  tlir  service  of  2s.  a 
year  of  the  common  fine,  which  was  held  for  life  by  Elizabeth  who 
was  wife  of  Edward  de  Kendalethe  elder  of  the  right  and  heritage 

of  tin-  said    Edward  the  youm_r<r  with  reversion  to  hnn   and  his  h« 
that    the    said    John    and    John    after    released    to    the    said   William 

and  to  his  heirs  all  their  estate  therein,  that  after  tb  laid  Elisabeth's 

•  |    13 


194 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375. 


Membrane  1 — cont. 


death  the  said  William  entered  the  same  by  virtue  of  the  aforesaid 
grant,  the  king's  licence  not  having  been  obtained,  and  that  the  said 
manor  is  taken  into  the  king's  hand  as  well  by  the  said  Elizabeth's 
death  as  by  reason  of  those  trespasses  ;  and  for  10Z.  to  him  paid  by 
the  said  William  the  king  of  his  favour  has  by  letters  patent  pardoned 
those  trespasses,  granting  so  far  as  in  him  lies  that  the  said  William 
shall  have  again  and  hold  the  said  manor  to  him  and  his  heirs,  saving 
to  the  king  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30825.] 

Dec.  13.  To  Guy  de  Brian  constable  of  the  castle  of  St.  Briovel,  and  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant  there.  Order  at  their  peril  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  Edward 
Taverner  of  Gloucestre,  Nicholas  Bryedlep,  William  Heyberare, 
Robert  Walour  and  John  Compton,  to  be  brought  to  the  Tower  of 
London  according  to  their  commission  and  delivered  to  the  constable 
thereof  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  further  order,  Richard  Shayt, 
John  Hicokkes  of  Rewardyn,  Richard  de  la  Mulle  of  Mitcheldean 
(Magna  Dene)  and  John  Smyth  of  Little  Dene,  who  are  now 
imprisoned  in  the  said  castle  under  the  said  Guy's  custody  at  the 
king's  command.  By  C. 


Dec.  13. 

Westminster. 


1376. 

Jan.  10. 

Westminster. 


To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.  Order  at  his  peril  to  deliver  by  indenture 
to  Edward  Taverner  of  Gloucestre,  Nicholas  Briedlep,  William 
Heyberare,  Robert  Walour  and  John  Compton,  to  be  brought  to  the 
Tower  of  London  according  to  their  commission  and  delivered  to 
the  constable  thereof  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  further  order, 
Richard  Ferrour  and  William  Smyth  of  Mitcheldean  now  imprisoned 
in  Gloucestre  castle  under  the  custody  of  the  sheriff  at  the  king's 
command.  By  C. 

To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  and  to  his 
lieutenant.  Order  to  receive  by  indenture  and  keep  in  safe  custody 
in  the  prison  of  the  Tower  until  further  order  William  Smyth  who 
causes  himself  to  be  called  '  Sire  Johan  Geffre  '  and  '  admirall,'  Richard 
del  Milne,  John  Hicokes,  Richard  Shayt  who  causes  himself  to  be 
called  '  Sire  William  Recchemenever,'  John  Smyth  of  Little  Dene 
who  causes  himself  to  be  called  '  Sire  Richard  Misa vised,'  and  Richard 
Ferrour  of  Mitcheldean,  whom  William  Hayberar,  Robert  Walour 
and  John  de  Compton  shall  at  the  king's  command  deliver  to  the  said 
constable  and  lieutenant.  By  C. 


Jan.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Kent  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  Bene,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  report  of  many. 


1375.  Membrane  41d. 

Indenture  made  between  John  de  Neville  knight  lord  of  Raby  of 
the  one  part  and  Robert  de  Knolles  knight  and  Custance  his  wife 
of  the  other  part,  witnessing  a  grant  of  the  manors  of  Pykenhamwade 
and  Houton  co.  Norffolk  with  warranty  to  the  said  Robert  and  Custance 
for  their  lives  and  to  the  executors  and  assigns  of  the  survivor  for 
one  half  year  longer.  Witnesses  :  Robert  Mortymer,  Richard  Tlleye, 
Peter     Strange,    John     Harsyk,    Robert    Corbet     knights,    William 


49    EDWARD    Til. 


1375.  Membrant  4~d    out. 

Withereston,  Thomas  Wombe,  John  Baohiler,  John  Staple,  Simon 
Snvterton.  Dated  Pvkenhamwade,  Thursdav  the  feast  of  St.  Matthew 
48' Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  in  the  chancery 
at  Westminster,  31  January  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  de  Neville  lord  of  Raby  and  Ralph  de  Stoke,  giving 
to  Robert  de  Knolles  knight  and  Adam  Chaungeour  citizen  of  London 
and  to  their  assigns  a  yearly  rent  of  60Z.  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas 
and  Easter  by  even  portions  of  the  manor  of  Eynow  co.  Norhampton 
during  the  life  of  the  said  Robert  and  of  distance  his  wife,  with  power 
to  distrain  for  arrears.  Dated  London,  Sunday  after  the  Conversion 
of  St.  Paul  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John,  31  January. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  601.  of  the  manor  of 
Eynow  co.  Norhampton,  given  by  John  de  Neville  lord  of  Raby  and 
Ralph  de  Stoke  to  Robert  de  Knolles  knight  and  Adam  Chaungeour 
citizen  of  London  during  the  lives  of  the  said  Robert  and  of  Custance 
his  wife,  upon  condition  that  if  the  said  Robert  and  Custance  or  one 
of  them  or  their  assigns  be  thrust  out  of  the  manors  of  Pykenhamwade 
and  Houton  co.  Norffolk,  to  them  granted  by  the  said  John  for  their 
lives  and  to  the  executors  and  assigns  of  the  survivor  for  one  half  year 
longer,  or  out  of  parcel  thereof,  by  any  having  right  or  claim  therein 
before  this  date,  or  if  the  said  manors  or  parcel  thereof  be  recovered 
against  them  or  one  of  them  or  against  their  assigns,  the  said  John 
or  his  heirs  being  first  vouched  to  warranty  thereof,  he  or  his  heirs 
shall  within  half  a  year  after  warning  to  him  or  his  heirs  or  to  their 
general  attorney  recompense  them  the  said  Robert  and  Custance  for 
such  loss,  or  at  their  own  costs  shall  cause  them  to  have  the  land 
again,  so  that  no  default  or  deceit  be  in  the  tenants  thereof  ;  and 
covenant  by  the  said  Robert  and  Custance  that  if  the  said  John,  his 
heirs  or  assigns,  shall  within  half  a  year  after  the  death  of  the  longer 
liver  buy  of  the  executors  or  assigns  of  such  survivor  all  their 
goods  and  chattels  then  being  in  the  said  manors,  and  shall  make 
recompense  for  the  same,  it  shall  then  be  lawful  for  the  said  John, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  without 
gainsaying,  the  said  charter  of  feoffment  notwithstanding.  Dat<-d 
London,  Monday  after  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  49  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  31  January. 

Writing  of  William  Lely,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John  de  l'atheleye 
of  all  lands,  meadows,  rents  and  services  in  ('overtoil,  Bleeby  and 
Gippesmere  Bometime  of  John  Alwys,  which  the  said  William  had  by 
gift  and  feoffment  of  Robert  do  Bouth.  Dated  Goverton,  Monday 
after  the  Epiphany  1*  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  February  this  year. 

Writing    of    Philip    de    Brompton,    for    himself    and    Aliee    his    wife 

executrix  of  William  de  Burton,  being  a  release  to  William  de  Nbttoa 

of  all  actions  and  demands  l»y  reason  of  B  Btatute  merchant  whereby 
William  de  Notion  wis  bound  to  William  de  Burton  and  Thomas 
Pipehurst  citizens  and  goldsmiths  of  London  in   100/.  to  save  them 


19G  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


L876.  Membrane  bid — cord. 

harmless  concerning  the  security  for  a  sum  of  111.  6s.  Sd.  payable  to 
the  king  and  his  assigns  wherein  they  were  bound  in  the  exchequer 
for  William  de  Notton,  as  by  certain  indentures  of  defeasance  between 
the  parties  may  appear  ;  and  annulment  of  the  said  statute,  for  that 
William  de  Notton  has  truly  saved  and  acquitted  the  said  sureties, 
as  appears  by  record  of  the  exchequer.  Dated  Fletestrete  London, 
7  February  49  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Philip,  9  February. 

Charter  of  Robert  Bucskyn  of  Essex,  giving  with  warranty  to  Robert 
Yonge  of  Wytenham,  John  Hanecok,  Henry  parson  of  Bredestrate 
London,  Thomas  May  the  elder  and  Adam  Prygell  of  Runwell,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  a  messuage,  60  acres  of  land,  2\  acres  of  meadow, 
20  acres  of  pasture  and  65.  8d.  of  yearly  rent  in  South  Hamyngfeld, 
West  Hamyngfeld  and  Dounham,  which  the  said  Robert  Bucskyn 
recovered  in  the  king's  court  at  Westminster  by  writ  of  entry  upon 
disseisin  against  Thomas  de  Barwe  chaplain  and  John  Austyn  chaplain. 
Witnesses  :  Hugh  de  Badewe  knight,  John  de  Mounteneye  knight, 
Richard  de  Preston,  Henry  Bedell,  John  Baroun  '  draper,'  Nicholas 
Michel.  Dated  West  Hamyngfeld,  Saturday  after  the  octaves  of  the 
Purification  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  February. 

Writing  of  Michael  Bonet,  proctor  and  attorney  of  James  Laurencii 
as  partner  of  Nicholas  Saffont  a  Cathallan  merchant  for  whom  [the 
said  James]  has  promised  ratification  binding  all  his  goods  now  and 
hereafter,  also  of  William  Villarius,  Berengarius  Pareil,  Poncius 
Meliacius,  Francis  Mercader,  Peter  de  Villa  Canis,  Gombald  de  Navello, 
Francis  Romarius,  Peter  Garighe,  Dominicus  Sancius,  James  Dominici, 
Messias  Carrere  as  partner  of  Arnald  Amenos  a  Cathallan  merchant 
for  whom  [the  said  Messias]  has  promised  (as  above),  of  Berengarius 
Villa,  Francis  Pontus,  George  Julian,  Thomas  Sale,  Peter  de 
Fountescare,  Gabriel  Carres,  Arnald  Ferrarius,  Peter  Bassus.  Raymond 
Dascher  and  Simon  Inner  all  Catallan  merchants  and  subjects  of  the 
king  of  Aragon  now  dwelling  at  Bruges  in  Flanders,  as  appears  by  a 
notarial  instrument  attested  by  Bartholomew  de  Arquato  son  of 
Peter  notary  public  with  the  seal  of  the  community  (universitatis) 
of  the  said  merchants  in  Bruges,  of  whom  many  goods  and  much 
merchandise  were  taken  at  sea  from  a  ship  or  tarit  of  Maiorica  called 
'  Sancta  Clara,'  Francis  Anselmi  of  Maiorica  master  and  owner,  namely 
by  many  ships  and  people  of  England,  having  information  that  Robert 
atte  Lathe  burgess  of  Lenne  and  owner  of  a  ship  of  Lenne  called 
'  Magdaleyn  '  was  not  acting  or  consenting  in  the  capture  of  the  said 
tarit,  nor  shared  in  the  said  goods,  although  now  and  at  other  times 
cited  or  adjourned  before  the  king  of  England  and  his  council  for 
the  cause  aforesaid,  wherefore  it  is  amicably  agreed  between  him 
and  the  said  proctor  as  follows,  and  the  said  proctor  for  his  constituents 
aforesaid  acknowledges  that  he  has  received  of  the  said  Robert  39Z., 
wherefore  he  acquits  and  discharges  the  said  Robert,  his  said  ship 
and  goods,  of  all  action  and  demand  before  whatsoever  judges 
now  or  hereafter  arising  by  reason  of  the  capture  or  plunder  aforesaid, 
saving  to  the  said  proctor  and  his  constituents  all  causes,  actions  and 
claims  against  all  and  singular  the  seamen  and  servants  of  the  said 
ship  of  Lenne  or  against  others  personally  concerned  in  that  capture, 


f    EDWARD    III.  197 


1375.  Mennbram  ild—cont. 

the   person,   ship   and   goods   of   the   said    Hubert   excepted.     Dated 
Loudon,  28  January  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  Februai  j 

Feb.  23.  Henry    de    Coggeshale    knight    to    John    James    of    Walvngford. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  46i. 

Charter  of  Robert  Clifton  of  Lancashire,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Richard  Grene  knight,  Adam  Fraunceys  alderman,  Adam  de  Sancto 
Ivone  and  John  Frankeleyn  citizens  of  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
his  manors  of  Clifton  and  Salwyk  co.  Lancastre,  and  all  other  his  manors, 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  that  county  with  dovecotes,  mills,  woods, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  homages,  wards,  marriages,  beriots, 
reliefs,  escheats,  rights,  commodities  etc.  to  the  same  belonging. 
Dated  Clifton,  Wednesday  before  St.  Martin  48   Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  January  this  year. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  feoffment,  upon  condition 
that  Robert  Clifton  of  Lancashire,  his  heirs  or  executors  shall  within 
two  years  after  Martinmas  next  pay  583Z.  6s.  8d.  in  London  to  Sir 
Robert  de  Knolles  knight,  Dame  Custance  his  wife  or  one  of  them,  or 
to  their  attorney  or  executors,  witnessing  that  seisin  of  the  manors  of 
Cb'fton  and  Salwik  is  delivered  to  Richard  Grene  knight,  Adam 
Fraunceys  alderman.  Adam  de  Seint  Ive  and  John  Frankeleyn  citizens 
of  London  upon  this  condition.     Dated   (as  the  last).     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Richard,  Adam, 
Adam  and  John,  29  January  this  year. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  Grene  knight,  Adam  Fraunceys 
alderman,  Adam  de  Seint  Ive  and  John  Frankeleyn  citizens  of  London 
of  the  one  part,  and  Robert  Clifton  and  Robert  de  Aferesco  of  Lancashire 
of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  for  two  years  to  the  said  Robert  and 
Robert  and  to  their  assigns  for  200  mark-  in  hand  by  them  paid  of 
the  manors  of  Clifton  and  Salwik  and  of  all  other  the  manors,  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  Lancashire  which  the  said  Richard  and  the  others 
have  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  Robert  Clifton,  rendering 
nevertheless  one  rose  a  year  at  Midsummer  to  the  Lessors,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  and  doing  the  rents  and  services  to  the  lord-  of  the  fee 
due  and  accustomed.  Dated  Loudon,  Wednesday  after  Martinmas 
48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  l>\  the  said  Richard,  Adam, 
Adam  and  John,  29  January  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  de  Kyngesfolde,  being  a   receipt  and  acquittance 
to  Walter  fit/.  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham  for  200  marks  for  Chi 
term  4s  Edward  111,  in  part  of  800  marks  wherein  the  jaid   Walter 
is  bound  to  him  by  a  writing  of  annuity  of  LOW.  a  year.     Dated  London, 
the  day  and  \  •  u  aforesaid. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment     .'!!    J.iniian    tin     year, 


198 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375. 


Membrane  46e? — cont. 


Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  John  de  Charleton  of  Middlesex,  confirming 
the  estate  of  Richard  de  Leycestre  parson  of  Castre,  Simon  Pakeman, 
Robert  Martel,  William  de  Burgh,  John  de  Gadesby  and  Thomas 
Aliene  (Alliene)  of  Assheby  in  the  manors  of  Pulteneye  and  Minsterton 
co.  Leycestre  and  Shenlee  co.  Hertford  and  all  other  the  lands,  woods, 
rents,  reversions,  services,  fees  and  advowsons  sometime  of  John  de 
Pulteneye  knight  in  those  counties,  Warwickshire  and  Norhamptonshire, 
whereof  they  are  in  possession  ;  and  quitclaim  of  the  premises  to  them, 
their  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  William  Strete,  Geoffrey  de 
Newenton,  John  Wroth  the  younger,  Geoffrey  de  Segrave.  Dated 
London,  Thursday  the  eve  of  the  Purification  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  February. 

Feb.  4.  John    Corouner    of    Leveryngton    to    William    de    Mirfeld    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  12Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Cambridgeshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  1.  Thomas    del    Strother,    son   of   Henry   del   Strother,    to   John   de 

Westminster.  Rouclyffe  the  younger.      Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Northumberland. 

Feb.  7.  Robert   Bukskyn   to   Thomas   Tyrell   knight   and   Clement   Spice. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100?.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  de  Kyrkebride  of  the  one  part 
and  John  Payn  citizen  and  armourer  of  the  other  part,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands, 
woods,  meadows,  rents  and  services  which  he  now  has  in  the  towns 
of  Northmymmes  and  Southmymm.es  cos.  Middlesex  and  Hertford  ; 
with  proviso  that  the  effect  of  this  warranty  shall  be  only  to  bar  the 
said  Richard  and  his  heirs,  and  not  as  against  the  actions  of  others. 
Dated  London,  5  February  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Richard,  8  February. 

Feb.  9.  Godfrey  Foljambe  knight  and  Godfrey  his  son  to  Hugh  Malepas. 

Westminster.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  55?.  to  be  levied,  in  default    of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Derbyshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  10.         John  Michel  citizen  and  vintner  of  London  and  Henry  Herbury 

Westminster,  citizen  and  vintner  of  London  to  William  Bys  '  stokfisshmongere  ' 

London,  Robert  Pountfreit  '  cornemongere  '  London  and  John  Wilton 

'  ismongere  '  London.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  200?.,  to 

be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  William  Bys. 

Feb.  16.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Peter  de  Barton, 
Westminster.  Robert  de  Muskham  and  Robert  de  Faryngton  clerks  to  stay  the 
taking  of  the  body  of  Master  Thomas  Baketon,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  justices  at  Westminster,  although  lately  by  writ  de  judicio 
the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  take  the  said  Thomas,  so  as  to  have 
his  body  before  the  said  justices  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  to  answer 
John  Stratton  '  corsour  '  how  that  contrary  to  the  king's  prohibition 


49    EDWARD    111.  190 


1375.  Membrane  46d — cont. 

he  proceeded  in  a  cause  concerning  the  lay  fee  of  the  Baid  .John  in 
London  ;  as  the  said  clerks  have  mainperned  in  chancery  body  for 
body  to  have  the  said  Thomas  before  the  said  Justices  at  the  day 
named. 

Membrane  A5d. 

Charter  indented  of  Katherine  Breouse,  giving  with  warranty 
John  Daventre  parson  of  Broom,  Edward  de  Lakynghcth  Stephen 
Langham,  Thomas  Chervyle  chaplain,  John  Pikenham,  John  Bivtton, 
John  Wauton,  John  Hunte  and  John  Heylesdon,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Sculthorp,  the  king's  licence 
having  been  obtained,  to  hold  of  the  king  by  the  services  thereof  due 
and  accustomed,  rendering  to  the  said  Katherine  and  to  her  heirs 
407.  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  power  being 
reserved  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  premises  in  default  of  payment. 
Dated  London,  Saturday  after  St.  Valentine  49  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Katherine  Breouse,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  appointing 
William  Braunche  and  Thomas  Kenynghale,  John  Grafton  chaplain, 
Henry  Rolves,  Peter  parson  of  Watlyngton  and  Roger  parson  of 
Mighelstowe  to  deliver  to  John  Daventre  parson  of  Broom,  Edmund 
de  Lakyngheth,  Stephen  Langham,  Thomas  Chervyle  chaplain,  John 
Pykenham,  John  de  Bretton,  John  Wauton,  John  Hunte  and  John 
Heylisdon  seisin  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Scolthorp  according 
to  her  charter  indented.     Dated  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  17  February. 

Feb.  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Geoffrey  Dersham 

Westminster,  and  Robert  Talbot  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  William  Pollard, 
bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  that  Thomas  Hardyng  of  Manytre  impleaded  the  said  William 
in  the  king's  court  before  the  said  justices  to  render  an  account  for 
the  time  he  was  receiver  of  the  plaintiff's  moneys,  and  by  another 
writ  Thomas  Cauell  is  impleading  the  said  William  before  the  same 
justices  for  an  alleged  debt  of  40s.,  and  by  divers  writs  de  judicio  at 
the  plaintiffs'  suit  the  king  has  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said 
William  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  Westminster  at 
set  days  in  those  writs  contained,  although  he  is  ready  to  answer  the 
plaintiffs  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  wherefore  petition  is  made  on 
his  behalf  for  a  stay  ;  and  the  said  Geoffrey  and  Robert,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  2<V.  to  have 
the  said  William  before  the  said  justices  at  the  days  those  writs  are 
returnable.  • 

To  the  sheriff  of  Essex,     kike  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  by  mainp 
of  William  Pollard  and  Robert  Talbot,  in  favour  of  Margaret  Dawe 
who  is  before  the  king  impleaded  bj  Thomas  Hardyng  for  an  alleged 
treapa 

The  like  to  the  same  sheriff  in  favour  of  William  Pollard,  by 
mainprise  of  EJdmund  Donne,  Robert  Talbot,  John  Lache  and  John 
Bateman  under  a  pain  of  20/. 


200  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  45d — cont. 

Feb.  1.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Kendale 

Westminster,  clerk,  William  Bristowe  '  bakere  '  and  John  Lynham  '  cordewaner  ' 
of  the  city  of  London  to  set  free  Richard  de  Tysho  clerk  from  prison, 
bringing  this  writ  into  chancery  ;  as  lately  at  the  request  of  R.  bishop 
of  Coventre  and  Lychefeld  signifying  to  the  king  that  the  said  clerk 
being  of  his  diocese  was  by  the  authority  of  the  ordinary  excommuni- 
cated because  of  contumacies,  and  would  not  be  justified  by 
ecclesiastical  censure,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  justify  the  said 
clerk  by  his  body  according  to  the  custom  of  England  until  he  should 
content  holy  church  for  his  contempt  and  wrongdoing  ;  but  he  has 
lawfully  appealed  to  the  see  of  Rome  and  for  the  protection  of  the 
court  of  Canterbury  against  that  sentence  as  unjust,  as  appears  by 
a  notarial  instrument  thereupon  made  and  produced  in  chancery, 
and  is  prosecuting  his  appeal  with  effect  as  he  says  ;  and  the  said 
Thomas  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  to  have  him 
there  at  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  to  stand  to  right,  and  to  do  and  receive 
what  the  court  shall  determine.  The  king  has  commanded  the  sheriff 
of  Middlesex  to  give  the  said  bishop  notice  to  be  then  in  chancery  to 
shew  cause  wherefore  the  said  clerk  ought  not  to  be  set  free  from 
prison  pending  the  business  of  his  appeal. 

Feb.  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Leycestre.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Simon 
Westminster.  Mayheu,  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Grene  of  Foxton  and  Hugh  Sporier 
of  Leycestre  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his 
body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day 
a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of  Richard  Sergeant  is 
returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  said  Richard  Sergeant  is 
impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  for  an  alleged  debt  of  40<s., 
that  by  the  said  writ  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed 
for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  thereupon, 
and  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ; 
and  the  said  Richard  Grene  and  Hugh  have  mainperned  in  chancery 
under  a  pain  of  401.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day 
named. 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Edmund  Trentemarcz  of  Middlesex, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Halden,  Gilbert 
Chaumpeneys  and  John  Ussher,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  16  acres 
of  land  in  Oldeford  which  with  other  lands  in  Stebenheth  and 
Hakeneye  co.  Middlesex  the  said  William,  Gilbert  and  John  Ussher 
have  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Adam  Fraunceys  citizen  of  London, 
and  the  said  Adam  formerly  acquired  of  the  said  John  son  of  Edmund. 
Dated  London,  10  February  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  February. 

Charter  of  Roger  Wolferston  and  Roger  Keterich,  granting  to 
William  Spice,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  their  manor  of  Spayneshall  and 
all  their  lands  in  the  town  of  Wilynghale  Spayne  co.  Essex.  Witnesses : 
Robert  Teye,  Simon  Longe,  Thomas  Rocheford.  Dated  London, 
Saturday  after  Easter  41  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Roger  de  Wolferston  and  Roger  Keterich,  granting  to 
Clement  Spice  and  Alice  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  heirs  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  Clement 


49    EDWARD    111  201 


1375.  Membrane  45i — cont. 

and  Alice  [ric),  all  the  lands,  rente  and  services  in  the  towns  of  Black 
Nbttele  and  White  Nottele  which  they  lately  had  by  giant  of  tJ 
Clement  and  Alice  by  fine  levied  in  t  he  king's  eonrt.     Dated  Friday 
the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr  42   Edward    III. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment   of    the   foregoing    oharteia    by 
Roger  de   Wolferston,    14   February   this  year. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by   Roger  Keterich,  9  May. 

Feb.  21.  Nicholas    Lovayne    knight    to    Nicholas    Carewent   clcik,    Thomas 

Westminster.  Hungreford,  Master  John  Corf  clerk  and  Master  Walter  Sevenhampton 
clerk.  Recognisance  for  iOL,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Membrane  14'/. 

Writing  of  Robert  Owayn  of  Pulteneye,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Sir  Nicholas  de  Lovayne,  Sir  Au  brey  de  Veer,  .Sir  Arnald 
Savage,  Sir  John  Pekbrugge  and  Margaret  his  wife,  Robert  Belknap, 
John  Colpeper  and  Roger  de  Asshebournham,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  certain  tenements  whereof  they  are  now  in  possession,  namely  the 
manors  of  Penshurst,  Yenesfeld,  Northpark  and  Osprenge,  a  messuage, 
one  carucate  and  2UU  acres  of  land,  100  acres  of  meadow,  300  acres  of 
pasture,  300  acies  of  wood  with  appurtenances  in  Penshurst ,  Tonebruggc, 
Leghe,  Bytteberugh,  Speldhurst  and  Chidyngstone,  the  manor  of  Southall 
in  Wollewychc,  the  advowson  of  Penshurst  chapel,  and  one  acre  of 
wood  with  the  advowson  of  Eselyng  church  cos.  Kent  and  Essex,  the 
manor  of  Popeler  and  three  messuages,  four  tofts,  two  water  mills 
called  '  Crachemulles,'  one  fulling  mill,  100  acres  of  land,  220  acres  of 
pasture  and  \)l.  3s.  4rf.  of  rent  in  Stebynhethe,  Esthamme,  Stratford, 
Edelmeton,  Hakeneye,  Brambele  and  Eldeford  with  all  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  Estsmethefeld  by  the  Tower  of  London  co.  Middlesex,  the 
manors  of  Dytton  Camoys,  Swafham  Priour  and  Chevclee,  three 
messuages,  240  acres  of  pasture  and  one  mill  in  Dytton  Camoys,  Swafham 
Priour,  Chevelee  and  Asshelee  and  the  advowsons  of  Chevelee  church 
and  the  chapels  of  Swafham  Priour  and  Dytton  Camoys  co.  Cantebrigge, 
the  manor  and  advowson  of  Witheresfeld  co.  Suffolk  w  it  li  appurtenan 
in  Horset  and  Haverhull,  and  all  other  manors,  lands,  rents,  mills, 
woods,  meadows,  pastures,  waters,  fisheries,  services',  liberties, 
lordships,  customs,  reversions,  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  ohurohes 
and  chapels  with  their  appurtenances  which  ever  were  of  Sir  John  de 
Pulteneye  or  of  Sir  William  his  son  and  heir  in  the  counties  aforesaid, 
the  inn  called  '  Coldherbergh  '  and  all  the  land-,  rente  and  lordships 
upon  the  'Haywharf,'  the  said  'wharf'  and  all  other  lands,  lent-. 
services  and  lordships  in  the  parish  of  All  ha  I  lows  the  Great  with  the 

versions  in  the  city  of  London,  confirming  their  estate  in  the  premi 
Witnesses  :   Sir  Reynold  de  Cobham,  Sir  Bernard  Bin  fir  Etiohard 

de     lot.  -ham.    Sir   John    Seintcler,    Sir    William   de   Cobham    knights, 
Sir  William  HareweU  parson  of  Penshurst,  William  Strete  the  khi 
butler,    John    Chydicroft,    James    de    Pekham.     Dated    I'enshurst, 
Tuesday  before  St.  Bfargarel    18  Bdward  III.     French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1 1  February  this  year. 

Writing    of    Nicholas    de    Loveyne    knight,   confirming    the    estate 

which  Richard  de  Leyoestre   parson  of  Oastre,    Simon    Pakemaa, 


262 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375. 


Membrane  44d — cont. 


Robert  Martell,  William  de  Burgh,  Johnde  Gadesby  and  Thomas  Alliene 
of  Assheby  have  in  the  manors  of  Pulteneye  and  Minsterton  co.  Leycestre 
and  Shenlee  co.  Hertford  in  their  possession  being,  and  in  all  other 
the  lands,  woods,  rents,  reversions,  services,  fees  and  advowsons 
whatsoever  in  those  counties  and  in  Warwickshire  and  Northamptonshire 
which  were  sometime  of  John  de  Pulteneye  knight ;  and  quitclaim  of  the 
premises  to  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  William  Strete 
the  king's  butler,  Geoffrey  de  Newenton,  John  Wroth  the  younger, 
Geoffrey  de  Segrave.  Dated  London,  Monday  after  the  Purification 
49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  February. 

Feb.  14.  To   the  prior  and  convent  of  St.   Frideswide   Oxford.     Order  to 

Westminster,  grant  to  Henry  le  Forester  the  king's  clerk,  son  of  Hugh  Forester, 
such  a  yearly  pension  of  their  house  as  shall  befit  the  givers  and  should 
bind  the  receiver  to  them,  making  him  letters  patent  thereupon  under 
their  chapter  seal,  and  writing  again  without  delay  what  they  will 
do  ;  as  the  said  prior  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  is  bound  in  such  a 
pension  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until 
provision  be  made  him  by  the  prior  and  convent  of  a  competent 
benefice,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Henry  whose 
advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30414.] 

Writing  of  John  de  Grey  of  Rotherfeld  knight,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Henry  Asty  of  Hekyngton,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Biker  in  Holand  co.  Lincoln,  and  all  other 
lands,  rents  and  services  which  he  the  said  John  ever  had  in  Holand 
aforesaid.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Richard  de  Ravenser  archdeacon  of  Lincoln, 
Sir  Roger  de  Kirketon  justice  of  the  Common  Bench  knight,  Sir  John 
de  Multon  knight,  Sir  John  de  Hermesthorp  parson  of  Bedale,  John  de 
Reppynghale.     Dated  15  February  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  February. 

Feb.  8.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Bristol.     Order,  for  particular  causes, 

Westminster,  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  town  and  suburbs  of  Bristol 
on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man  of  whatsoever  estate  or 
condition  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  secretly  or  openly  to  take 
out  of  the  realm  to  foreign  parts  any  money  of  Scotland  or  any  foreign 
plate  (platam)  of  gold  or  silver  ;  and  order  when  need  be  to  make 
diligent  search  in  every  ship  and  other  vessel  which  shall  henceforth 
cross  from  that  port  to  Spain  or  Ireland,  certifying  the  king  from  time 
to  time  of  what  they  shall  do. 
[Feeder  a.] 

Feb.  13.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  governor  and  guardian  of  Ireland,  and 
Westminster,  to  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland.  Order  on  the  king's  behalf 
to  cause  the  ordinance  hereinafter  recited  to  be  proclaimed  in  the 
cities,  boroughs,  market  towns  and  other  places  in  Ireland  where 
they  shall  think  fit,  within  liberties  and  without,  and  to  be  observed 
and  kept ;  as  for  that  the  people  of  Scotland  have  by  their  subtilty 
drawn  the  king's  good  silver  money  out  of  the  realm,  and  have  put  the 
same  in  their  coin  to  a  less  value  than  is  the  money  of  England,  so  that 
the  said  money  of  Scotland  had  currency  in  payments  within  the  realm 
of  England  to  the  hurt  and  deception  of  the  king,  the  lords  and  all  the 


40    Kl>\\  ARD    TIT.  l'h.; 


1375.  Membrant  44c£ — cont. 

commons  of  England,  by  assent  of  the  prelates,  lords  and  common-  oi 
England  in  a  parliament  summoned  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  St. 
Edmund  the  king  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  it  was  lately  ordered 

and  agreed  (among  other  things)  that  the  money  of  Scotland  of  id, 
should  have  currency  to  the  value  of  3d.  of  England,  and  smaller 
money  according  to  the  amount  thereof,  and  tlt.it  in  case  such  money 
of  Scotland  be  made  worse  it  shall  be  put  at  less  according  to  the 

amount  of  the  depreciation  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  tin- 
ordinance  be  observed  as  well  in  Ireland  as  in  England,  being  bound 
in  all  parts  to  make  provision  for  his  own  advantage  and  for  the 
advantage  of  all  his  people. 

[Ibid.] 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of 
Salisbury  lord  of  the  Isle  of  Man,  or  to  his  lieutenant  in  the  said  island. 

[Ibid.] 

Feb.  9.  Hugh  Garderober  of  Eltham  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 

Westminster.  Oseneye,  to  have  such  maintenance  therein  for  life  as  Isabel  Blaket 

deceased  had  at  the  king's  request.  By  p.s.  [30411.] 

Membrane  43J. 

Indenture  reciting  a  quitclaim  made  by  Ralph  de  Huntyngdon 
and  Elizabeth  his  w-ife  to  Master  Thomas  Baketon  clerk,  John  Cotton 
of  Cantebrigge  and  William  Baketon  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  John, 
with  warranty  bj'  the  said  Ralph  and  Elizabeth  and  the  heirs  of  the 
said  Elizabeth,  of  three  messuages,  three  carucates  of  land,  6/.  of  rent 
and  the  appurtenances  in  Trumpyngton  co.  Cantebrigge,  and  the 
manor  of  Hamstede  with  appurtenances,  three  messuages,  a  mill, 
five  carucates  of  land,  30  acres  of  wood,  50s.  of  rent  and  appurtenances 
in  Fynchyngfeld,  Samford,  Radewynter  and  Asshedon  co.  Essex. 
as  appears  by  a  fine  levied  at  Westminster  before  the  justices  of  the 
Common  Bench  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  49  Edward  HI,  and 
witnessing  a  covenant  by  the  said  Thomas,  John  and  William,  for 
them  and  the  said  John's  heirs,  that  by  the  warranty  aforesaid  the 
said  Ralph  and  Elizabeth  and  the  said  Elizabeths  heirs  shall  not  be 
bound  to  make  up  the  value  of  the  premises  if  the  said  Thomas,  John 
or  William  or  the  heirs  or  assigns  of  the  said  .John  he  impleaded, 
but  that  the  same  shall  only  bar  the  said  Ralph  and  Elizabeth  and 
her  heirs  for  ever.  Dated  Sauston  co.  Cantebrigge,  Friday  after  the 
Conversion  of  St.  Paul  49  Edward   III.     I'r,  >ich. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Thomas,  John  and 
William,  27  January. 

Writing  of  Richard  Erchebaud  of  Stanwyk  co.  Northampton, 
reciting  a  gift  to  him  made  by  deed  of  William  W'yghtman  of 
Huntyngdonshire   and   .John    Ingyl   of    Bassyngburn  I    uitehn 

with  warranty  to  the  said  Richard,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  three 
messuages  and  all  other  the  land-  etc.  in  the  town  of  Abyndon  by 

Ba   singDUni   which   the  donors  had   by  gift   ami   feoffment   of  John  de 

Grandon  son  of  Luke  de  Grandon,  whereby  the  said  Richard  quitclaims 
to  the  said  William  and  to  his  hens  the  warranty  aforesaid,  so  that 
he  and  Ins  heirs  shall  he  debarred  from  claiming  advantage  thereof. 

Dated    London,  27  January  49  Edward   III.      !'>■  \cA. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  January. 


204 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  43d — cont. 

-Ian.  29.  Nicholas   Wilcombe   to   William   de   Brantyngham.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Sussex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Stephen  Lymbury  of  Norhamptonshire,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  John  Aubrey  citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  any  right  present  or  future  in  all  lands,  rents  and  services,  woods, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.  which  the  said  John  has  in  the  towns 
of  Estham,  Westham,  Berkyng  and  Stratford  co.  Essex.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  Hatfeld,  Geoffrey  Crymelford,  Thomas  Hanampstede  citizens 
of  London,  Richard  Bowyer,  John  Sewale,  Richard  Rolf,  Adam  Bokeler. 
Dated  London,  30  January  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  31  January. 

Jan.  31.         John  Segyn  of  Haddestoke  to  John  de  Sleford  clerk.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  100?.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Essex. 

Writing  of  John  Boys  of  Great  Donmowe  co.  Essex,  being  a  confirma- 
tion of  the  estate  of  John  Cotton  of  Cantebruge,  Thomas  Makwillam 
citizen  and  pepperer  of  London  and  Godfrey  Cost  '  mareschal  '  of  the 
same,  in  ali  lands,  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents,  services, 
commons,  ways,  paths,  hedges,  ditches  etc.  of  him  the  said  John  Boys 
in  the  towns  of  Stanstede  Abbots  and  Honysdon  co.  Hertford,  sometime 
of  William  Olyve,  which  by  charter  of  feoffment  he  the  said  John 
Boys  lately  gave  them  in  fee  simple  ;  and  quitclaim  of  the  premises 
with  warranty  to  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  :  John 
Rugewyne,  Richard  Braughyng,  John  Ry,  Robert  Trottere,  John 
Coupere.     Dated  Honysdon,  12  February  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  February. 

Feb.  12.         John  fitz  John  to  Thomas  Marleburgh  and  John  Colne.  Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  101.,  to  be  levied  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Bedfordshire. 

Feb.  14.         John  Beke  of  Radclyf  upon  Sore  to  William  de  Mirfeld  clerk. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  4U.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Notynghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Laurencia  who  was  wife  of  William  Ingelby,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Giles  Daubeney  knight  and  his  heirs  of  a  yearly  rent  of 
40s.  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of  Baryngton  within  the  hundred  of 
South pederton  co.  Somerset  which  she  had  by  grant  of  Ralph 
Daubeney e  knight  father  of  the  said  Giles  in  name  of  her  dower  thereof 
arising  after  her  said  husband's  death,  and  also  of  all  lands  which 
were  her  said  husband's  in  that  town.  Dated  13  February 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  February. 


Feb.  15.         Stephen  Hallu  parson  of  St.  Giles  Upwymborn  Plecy  to  John  Hamely 
Westminster,  knight.     Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Dorset. 


49    EDWARD    TTI.  205 


1875.  Membrane  AM— cant. 

Writing  of  John  Longeleye,  son  and  heir  of  Robert  Longeleye  of 
Stokenaillond,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Rokwode 
and  John  Rokwode,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands  which 
were  lately  of  Peter  Longeleye  in  Stokenaillond  and  Polstede,  with 
meadows,  pastures,  feedings,  woods,  hays,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
heriots,  escheats,  ways,  paths,  commons,  hedges,  ditches  etc.  Witt, 
William  Tendryng,  William  Chcyne  knights,  John  Whethermerssh, 
Richard  de  Whethermerssh,  Thomas  Aldewyne,  Thomas  Taillour, 
Thomas  Folke.  Dated  Stokenaillond,  Friday  after  the  Purification 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   16  February. 

Feb.  22.  Simon  bishop  of  London  and  John  de  Sudbury  his  brother  to  the 

Westminster,  prioress,  prior  and  convent  of  Non  Eton.  Recognisance  for  100/., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 
Essex. 

Note  that  the  chancellor  took  this  recognisance. 

Feb.  23.  William  prior  of  Xon  Eton  to  Simon  bishop  of  London  and  John 

Westminster,  de  Sudbury  his  brother.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Warwickshire. 

The  same  prior  to  the  said  Simon  and  John.     Recognisance  for 
40  marks  pa3*able  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied  etc.  as  above. 
Cancelled  on  jxiyment,  acknoicledged  by  the  said  Simon. 

Membrane  42r/. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  John  atte  Frithe  of  Canterbirs, 
being  a  lease  for  two  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  by  mainprise  of 
William  Bale  of  Canterbirs  and  John  Grene  the  younger  of  the 
Holyngboume  co.  Kent,  of  the  subsidy  in  Kent  upon  cloths  for  sale 
granted  to  the  king  by  the  lords  and  commons  of  England,  taking  the 
moiety  of  the  ancient  forfeiture,  and  rendering  every  year  20/.  at 
Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions.  Covenants  {asabovt  .  />.  104), 
saving  to  the  king  the  forfeitures  put  in  the  statute  made  at  the 
parliament  holden  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Edmund 
the  Martyr  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  concerning  cloths  exposed 
for  sale  which  are  not  of  the  length  and  breadth  in  that  statute 
contained,  for  which  forfeitures  the  Lessee  shall  answer  at  the  exchequer. 
Dated  Westminster,  30  January  4!)    Edward    111.     French. 

By  hill  of  the  treasurer. 

The  like  leases  to  the  following  : 

Xorffolk  and  Suffolk.  Piers  Archebaud  for  three  years  from 
8  May  last,  taking  half  the  ancient  Forfeiture  and  rendering 
50  marks  a  year,  by  mainprise  of  Piers  de  Elsyngham  and 
John  de  Parys  of  Suffolk.    Dated  Westminster,  20  May.   French, 

p,\  Kill  of  the  treasurer. 
Wiltesir.  William  Wvtlier  of  Dorcestre  for  live  yeai 
Michaeli. m  I  tel  taking  half  the  ancient  forfeiture  and  rend  i 
the  first  year  .'52/.  ai  Easter  and  :;:{/.  6*.  Sd.  at  Michaelmas, 
and  afterwards  100  marks  a  year,  bj  mainprise  ol  Robert  de 
Aseheton  knight  of  Gloucestershire.  Dated  Westminster, 
23  May.     French.  By  ''ill  of  the  treSSUT 


206  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375-  Membrane  42d — cont. 

Warwickshire,  Leycestershire,  Staffordshire  and  Salop.  John  Ray 
of  Coventre  for  three  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  taking  one 
third  of  the  ancient  forfeiture  and  rendering  50  marks  a  year, 
saving  to  the  king  the  forfeitures  in  the  statute  made  in  parlia- 
ment (as  above),  by  mainprise  of  Ralph  Hunte  of  Coventre 
and  William  Lodbroke  of  Staffordshire.  Dated  Westminster, 
4  October.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Oxfordshire  and  Berkshire.  Edmund  Giffard  for  seven  years 
from  Michaelmas  last,  taking  the  third  part  of  the  ancient 
forfeiture  and  rendering  10/.  a  year,  by  mainprise  of  Richard 
Kent  of  Berkshire  and  John  Broghton  of  Oxfordshire.  Dated 
Westminster,  20  October.     French.      By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Cornewaille,  Deveneshire,  Somerset,  Dorset,  Gloucestershire  and 
Bristowe.  John  Canygnis  and  Simon  Canygnis  for  one  year 
from  Michaelmas  last,  taking  a  moiety  of  the  ancient  forfeiture 
and  rendering  180L,  by  mainprise  of  John  Bosham  and  Walter 
Blankeneye  of  London.  Dated  Westminster,  9  December. 
French. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Croydon  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warrantjr  to  William  de  Halden,  William 
Topclive,  William  Bedmanton,  John  Joce  chaplain  and  Robert  Claver, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  chapel  of  Grenche  in  the 
town  of  Cillyngham  co.  Kent,  and  of  all  his  lands,  rents,  farms  and 
services  in  the  said  town  and  the  towns  of  Reynham,  Upchirche, 
Hertlepe  and  Chetham  which  they  have  of  his  gift  and  feoffment. 
Witnesses  :  Adam  Chaungeour,  William  de  Stodeye,  John  Bollok, 
Giles  de  Kelseye,  Thomas  de  Santon.  Dated  London,  Saturday  after 
the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London, 
30  January. 

Assignment  of  dower  by  Thomas  de  Ilstone  escheator  in  Kent  to 
Thomasia  who  was  wife  of  Robert  Notyngham,  having  taken  of  her 
an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence  :  at  Sharstede 
of  the  tenements  which  deceased  held  there  by  knight  service,  namely 
of  his  capital  messuage  beginning  from  the  south  gates  and  extending 
to  the  west  end  of  the  south  side  of  the  great  chamber,  and  so  in  a 
line  by  the  side  of  the  said  chamber  to  a  new  chamber  thereto  attached 
on  the  east  side,  the  said  new  chamber  with  cellars  built  under  the 
same,  a  garden  called  the  '  kechengardeyn  '  extending  from  the  said 
chamber  eastward  to  the  ditch  of  the  great  garden,  and  along  the  ditch 
to  a  wall  of  earth  extending  in  a  line  from  the  said  ditch  through  the 
forestall  (forstallum)  without  the  said  messuage  to  the  stable  of  the 
south  gates  aforesaid  with  the  stable  and  wainhouse  within  those 
bounds  ;  the  eastern  part  of  a  grange  by  the  water  within  the 
said  messuage  begimiing  from  the  western  door  posts  thereof  and 
extending  to  the  east  end  of  the  grange,  and  free  ingress  and  egress 
with  wains  and  all  other  carriages  as  need  shall  be  from  the  grange 
to  the  south  gates  and  from  the  south  gates  to  the  grange  ;  3  acres  of 
garden  called  Bournes,  49  acres  of  land  next  adjacent  in  Bournesfeld 
and  Upmerhamme,  16  acres  of  wood  in  Peddynge  wood  extending 
on  the  south  side  of  the  wood  towards  the  Syndane  ;    3.9.  of  yearly 


49    EDWARD    III.  207 


1875.  Membrane  42d — cotit. 

rent,  and  a  rent  of  a  third  part  of  two  hens  at  Bixle  issuing  from 
tenements  of  Richard  Warde  and  others  there  :  at  Newelande  in  the 
parishes  of  Tenham  and  Lyndestede  of  the  lands  of  her  said  husband 
held  in  '  gavehVynde,'  a  messuage  with  a  croft  adjacent  containing 
4  acres,  and  a  dovecot  therein,  179  acres  of  arable  land,  and  pasture 
for  200  sheep  in  the  marsh  there,  also  28s.  2\d.  of  yearly  rent  and  a 
rent  of  three  cocks,  39  hens,  the  third  part  of  one  hen  and  205  eggs 
thereto  pertaining,  for  which  she  shall  pay  4/.  yearly  rent  to  the 
archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  divers  other  lords  of  the  fee,  with  other 
services  and  customs  thereof  due. 

Membrane  4 lei. 
Feb.  24.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Richard 

Westminster.  Ruggele,  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Cursoun,  Thomas  Meysham  and 
John  Seymour  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him 
at  the  suit  of  John  earl  of  Pembroke  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  the  said  earl  is  impleading  him  before  the  said  Justices 
to  render  account  for  the  time  he  was  receiver  of  the  earl*s  moneys, 
that  by  the  said  writ  he  was  put  in  exigents  in  the  husting  of  London 
for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  thereupon,  and 
that  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  Robert  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain 
of  20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  on  the  day  named. 

March  1.         Thomas  de  Tildesley,  son  of  Thurstan  de  Tildesley,  to  Richard  de 
Westminster.  Faiyngton  clerk.     Recognisance  for  40s.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Lancashire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

March  1.  To  Richard  Arnold  goldsmith  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition 
Westminster,  of  Helmyng  Leget  the  king's  esquire,  deputed  to  keep  the  smaller  piece 
of  the  seal  for  taking  recognisances  for  debts  at  London  according  to  the 
statute  for  merchants  published  at  Acton  Burnel,  with  all  speed  to 
cause  another  seal  for  that  office  to  be  wrought  by  advice  and  information 
of  the  said  Helmyng,  and  to  be  to  him  delivered  ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  the  said  piece  has  craftily  been  taken  out  of  his  possession. 

Charter  of  John  Witteneye  chaplain,  giving  with  warranty  to  Henry 
de  Wakefeld  clerk,  Henry  Medebourne  clerk,  Richard  Groffan  clerk, 
Richard  Lyons,  John  Hofte  and  John  Camel,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  tenants  and  neit's  of  Okolte 
and  Scoteneye,  and  all  other  lands,  rente  and  Bervices  which  he  with 
Henry  Persaj  .  William  Tauk;  Walter  de  Perlee,  John  Baya  and  Thomas 
Ulf  of  Santon  had  in  the  towns  and  parishes  of  Promhill  and  Lyde 
cos.  Kent  and  Sussex  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  Gisors  citizen  <>t 
London,  the  said  Henry  Persay,  William,  Walter  John  Baya  and 
Thomas  having  made  a  quitclaim  of  the  premises  to  him  the  said 
John  Witteneye  and  to  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Cobeham 
lord  of  Cobeham,  Sir  Robert  de  Belknappe,  Sir  William  de  Pympe 
knights,  James  de  Pekham,  Roger  Digge,  Roger  de  Assheburnham, 
William  de  Boerne,  Nicholas  Heryng.  Dated  fromhill,  22  February 
49  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of   acknowledgment    in    chancery  at   the  man* 
the  friars  preachers  within  the  city  of  London,  5  March. 


208  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  4\d — cont. 

March  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  for  particular  causes  moving  the 
Westminster,  king  and  council,  on  sight  of  these  presents  to  leave  all  else  and  cause 
proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man 
of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  on  any  pretence  secretly  or  openly 
without  the  king's  special  licence  to  take  wheat,  malt,  barley  or  other 
corn  w  hatsoever  to  any  foreign  parts,  or  to  cause  it  to  be  by  others  taken 
thither  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof,  directing  all  mayors,  bailiffs  and 
wardens  of  towns  and  ports  whatsoever  in  that  bailiwick  where  passage 
may  be  made  not  to  suffer  the  same  to  be  so  taken  over. 

[Fadera,  with  erroneous  reference  to  m.  40d] 

The  like  to  fourteen  other  sheriffs  of  fifteen  counties  ;  also  to  William 
Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports, 
or  to  his  lieutenant. 

[Ibid.] 

March  9.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William 
Westminster,  de  Swafham  of  Burwell,  by  mainprise  of  James  de  Wychingham  of 
London,  William  Parfit  of  London,  John  Barbour  and  John  Gyboun 
the  younger  of  Cambridgeshire  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him, 
bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  Thomas  citizen  and  mercer  of  London  is  impleading  him 
before  the  said  justices  to  render  an  account  for  the  time  that  he  was 
receiver  of  the  plaintiff's  moneys,  that  by  writ  de  judicio  he  is  put  in 
exigents  in  the  busting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not 
before  them  to  answer,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer,  and  stand  to 
right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  James  and  the  others,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have 
him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  the  said  writ  is  returnable. 

March  6.  To  the  same.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  Peter  Mold  and  Alice  his  wife,  b}'  mainprise  of  Walter  Mayu  and 
John  Whitewell  of  the  parish  of  St.  Sepulchre  without  the  bar  of 
Westsnrythfeld  London  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  they  are  put  in 
exigents  in  the  busting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  and  waived 
respectively  for  that  they  came  not  before  the  king  in  the  octaves 
of  St.  Hilary  last  to  answer  John  Yutte  of  Wendye  and  Joan  his 
Avife  concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  averring  that  this  was  altogether 
without  their  knowledge  ;  and  the  said  Walter  and  John  Whitewell, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  to  have  the  said 
Peter  and  Alice  before  the  king  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next, 
at  which  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable. 

March  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John 
Westminster.  Gere  of  Aldryngton,  by  mainprise  of  John  Merssh  and  Richard  Josep 
of  Norhamptonshire,  William  Trippelowe  and  Thomas  Prentys  of  the 
city  of  London,  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  de  judicio 
directing  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said  John  Clere,  if  found  within  his 
bailiwick,  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  king  at  a  set  day  therein  contained 
to  answer  to  the  king  concerning  certain  alleged  extortions,  trespasses 
and  other  matters,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  and  the  said 
John  Merssh  and  the  others  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40L  to 
have  him  before  the  king  at  the  aforesaid  day. 


40    EDWARD    Til. 


309 


Mi   til  I  !    ;        •ml. 


1375. 

Feb.  19.  To  Walter  Perle  and  David  Ilauemere,  Justices  appointed  to  deliver 

Westminster,  the  gaol  of  Gloucestre  castle.     Order  to  stay  and  cause  to  be 

until  further  order  any  proceedings  before  them  at  the  king's  suit 
touching  the  appeals  by  John  Shareshull  made  before  the  coroners  of 
Gloucestershire  concerning  alleged  felonies  and  seditions  :  as  lately 
for  particular  causes  the  king  commanded  the  tenor  of  all  such  appeals, 
which  are  before  the  said  justices  at  the  said  gaol  it  is  said,  to  be  sent 
to  him  in  chancery  under  the  said  Walter's  seal  before  the  feast  of 
St.  Edward  the  King  next,  also  the  writ  which  came  to  them  thereupon. 

Feb.  19.  To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester,  and  the  coroner  of  that  county.  Order 
Westminster,  to  stay  and  cause  to  be  stayed  until  further  order  any  proceedings 
before  them  at  the  king's  suit  touching  the  appeals  by  John  Shareshull 
made  before  the  coroner  concerning  alleged  felonies  and  seditions  ; 
as  tor  particular  causes  the  king  has  ordered  the  sheriff  and  coroner 
before  the  feast  of  St.  Edward  the  King  next  to  send  him  in  chancery 
under  their  seals  the  tenors  of  all  such  appeals,  also  the  writ  which 
came  to  them  thereupon. 

March  5.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Henry 
Westminster.  Lymnour  '  marchaunt  '  and  William  his  brother,  by  mainprise  of 
Robert  Caly,  John  de  Eccles  and  John  Methewold  of  Xorffolk  and  of 
William  Lambourne  of  Berkshire  to  stay  the  exigents  against  the  said 
Henry  and  his  brother  and  the  taking  of  their  bodies,  bringing  this 
writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents 
is  returnable  :  as  their  petition  shews  that  John  Houton  has  impleaded 
them  before  the  said  justices  to  render  him  chattels  to  the  value  of 
.'JO/.,  and  that  without  their  knowledge  they  are  put  in  exigents  in  the 
busting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  they  came  not  before  the 
said  justices  to  answer  him  ;  and  the  said  Robert  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  niainperncd  under  a  pain  of 
40/.  to  have  the  defendants'  bodies  before  the  said  justices  at  the 
day  named. 

March  10.       To  the  bailiffs  of  Scardeburgh.     Order,  for  particular  causes  moving 
W — tminster.  the  king  and  council,  not  to  suffer  wheat,  malt,  barley  or  any  other 
corn  to  be  laded  in  that  port  and  taken  thence  to  any  foreign  parts 
henceforward  without  obtaining  the  king's  licence. 

March   13.        To    Walter    Perle    and    David    Hanemere    justices    of    assize    in 
Westminster.  Staffordshire.     Order,  if  they  shall  proceed  to  take  an  assize  of  novel 
disseisin  before  them  arraigned  by  Dionysia  who  was  wife  of  Hugh 
de  Cokesey  against  William  Sharshull  and  others  concerning  tenements 
in  Sharshull,  Sardon  and  Coven  as  the  king  has  learned,  to  beh 
so  circumspectly  herein  thai  qo  hurt  or  prejudice  may  arise  oonti 
to  justice  to  Ralph  de  Ferriers  in  his  absence  upon  the  king's  seryioe 
by  the  king's  command  :    as  the  said  Ralph  is  tenant  of  the  premj 
it  is  said. 

March  12.       To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  del  Bi 

r.  clerk,  by  mainprise  of  William  de  fcelse;  o3  London.  John  de  Barton 

of  Yorkshire  and  John  de  Lin.oln  of  Northumberland  to  stay  the 

edition  Of  the  king's  late  writ  <h  judictO  directing  the  sheriff  to  take 

CB    14 


210 


CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1  n  7  5 .  Mem  bran  c  4 1  d — cont . 

him,  if  found  in  that  bailiwick,  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  Justices 
at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  to  answer  Thomas  de 
Ellerbek  concerning  the  rendering  of  an  account  for  the  time  he  was 
the  plaintiff's  bailiff  in  Ripon  and  receiver  of  his  moneys  there,  also 
to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  said  justices  ; 
as  his  petition  shews  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  said  Thomas  and 
stand  to  right  in  all  things,  and  the  said  William  and  the  others  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20  marks  to  have  him  before  the  said 
justices  at  the  day  named. 


Membrane  40d. 

March  8.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Cook  of 
Westminster.  Hornedon  and  Walter  Sherman  of  Hornedon  of  Essex  and  Richard 
Palmer  citizen  and  draper  of  London  to  stay  altogether  the  further 
execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  against  John  Hereward  directing 
the  sheriffs  to  cause  him  to  come  before  them  and,  under  a  pain  to  be 
by  them  laid  upon  him  for  which  they  would  answer,  to  compel  him 
to  find  security  that  he  will  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to 
Agnes  Lylde,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  take  him  and  commit  him 
to  the  nearest  gaol  there  to  abide  until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  and 
if  by  virtue  thereof  he  is  taken  and  imprisoned,  order  to  set  him  free  ; 
as  that  writ  issued  at  the  petition  of  the  said  Agnes,  averring  that 
John  Hereward  openly  threatened  her  in  life  and  limbs  ;  but  the 
said  John  Cook,  Walter  and  Richard,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/ .  to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use 
if  bodily  hurt  or  harm  shall  happen  to  the  said  Agnes  by  John  Hereward 
or  by  his  procurement. 

March  12.        To    the    same.     Like    order   in    favour   of    Richard    le    Spicer    by 

Westminster.  Billyngesgate,  against  whom  a  writ  is  issued  at  the  petition  of  Master 

Richard    de    Wermynton  ;     mainpernors,    John    Briggeford,    Robert 

Boxford,   Robert  Twyng  and  John  Seymore  of  London  under  a  pain 

of  40  marks. 

March  13.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.  Order,  upon  the  petitioa  of  John 
Westminster.  Cordewaner  of  Shefford,  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  Coke,  Richard 
Hervy,  Thomas  Bate  and  John  Brond  of  London  to  stay  the  taking 
of  his  bod^y,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king  ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  William  Webbe  of  Bassyngbourne  is  impleading  him  before  the 
king  concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  that  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king 
has  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  him  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  king 
the  day  the  same  is  returnable,  for  that  the  sheriff  returned  that  the 
said  defendant  was  not  found  in  his  bailiwick,  and  that  he  is  ready 
to  answer  the  said  William  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  Nicholas  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a 
pain  of  20  marks  to  have  him  before  the  king  at  the  day  named. 

Memorandum  that  lately  a  loud  complaint  as  well  of  the  clerks  of 
chancery  and  the  apprentices  of  the  king's  court  as  of  others  of  the 
people  of  the  city  of  London  being  made  before  the  council,  that  one 
Roger  Leget  has  privily  put  and  hidden  engines  of  iron  called 
'  caltrappes  '  upon  a  dike  by  him  newly  raised  in  Fikettesfeld  by  the 
bishop  of  Cicestre's  inn  where  the  said  clerks,  apprentices  and  others 


49  EDWARD  III.  211 


1375.  Mcnihnnn    4<)tf — cont. 

used  to  have  their  common  sport,  namely  as  well  at  the  bottom  as  at 
the  top  of  the  dike  and  everywhere  round  about  the  same,  knowing 
that  every  day  the  said  clerks,  apprentices  and  others  came  forth  to 
play  their  common  games  there,  to  the  malicious  intent  that  all  coming 
upon  the  said  dike  should  be  maimed  or  at  least  be  grievously  hurt, 
which  engines  were  by  the  said  clerks,  apprentices  and  other  passers 
by  found  and  carried  before  the  council  in  the  chapter  house  of  the 
friars  preachers  London  and  there  openly  shewn,  whereupon  the  said 
Roger  being  brought  before  the  council  to  answer  touching  the  premises 
confessed  his  fault  and  malice,  and  submitted  himself  to  the  king  and 
council,  wherefore  he  was  sent  to  the  Flete  prison  to  await  the  king's 
grace.  And  after  on  12  March  in  the  49th  year  of  his  reign,  after  the 
said  Roger  had  abode  long  in  that  prison,  for  20  marks  by  him  paid 
in  the  hanaper  of  chancery  the  king  admitted  the  said  Roger  to  his 
favour  and  pardoned  him  the  trespass  committed  as  aforesaid,  willing 
that  hereafter  he  should  not  at  the  king's  suit  be  impeached  or  troubled 
by  reason  thereof. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  2001.  made  12  March 
this  year  by  William  Kyng,  William  Houghton,  Peter  Wotton  and 
John  Foster  goldsmith  citizens  of  London,  appearing  in  person  in 
the  chancer}'  at  London,  for  John  Vyne,  Andrew  Vyne  and  William 
Vyne,  that  the  said  John  Vyne,  Andrew  and  William  nor  any  of  them 
should  in  the  court  of  Rome  by  themselves  attempt  or  prosecute 
nought.,  nor  cause  aught  to  be  prosecuted  by  others,  which  might  tend 
to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  the  rights  of  the  crown  or  to  impair 
the  laws  of  the  realm. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  100/.  made  16  March 
this  year  by  Thomas  Bassyngburne  knight  of  Hertfordshire  and 
Thomas  Hoo  knight  of  Sussex,  appearing  in  person  in  the  chancery 
at  London,  for  Robert  de  Hoo  clerk,  that  he  shall  not  without  the 
king's  licence  pass  to  foreign  parts,  nor  there  attempt  aught  or  cause 
aught  to  be  attempted  which  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king 
or  of  the  rights  of  the  crown,  or  to  impair  the  laws  of  the  realm. 

March  12.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  deliver 
Westminster,  the  gaol  of  Norwich  castle.  Order  to  send  to  the  king  in  ohanoery 
under  their  seal  forthwith,  when  they  shall  receive  them,  all 
indictments  affecting  Richard  Kransham  which  shall  be  brought  before 
them,  also  this  writ,  staying  and  causing  to  be  stayed  any  proceedings 
against  the  said  Richard  thereupon  ;  as  for  particular  causes  laid 
before  the  king  and  council  it  is  the  king's  will  that  all  indictments 
made  before  the  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  Xorfl'olk  whereon  the  said  Richard  is  indicted  it  is  -aid 
-hall  l»e  determined  before  the  king  and  not.  elsewhere,  and  the  king 
lias  commanded  the  said  guardians  and  justices  at  a  .set  day  yet  to 
come  to  send  him  under  the  seal  of  one  of  them  all  such  indictment-. 
and  all  things  concerning  the  same;  and  they  at  the  procurement 
of  certain  friends  of  the  said   Richard  are  purposing  to  send  the 

indictments  before  the  said  justices  for  gaol  delivery  at  die  next  day 
for  delivery  of  the  said  gaol,  in  order  that  without  advising  the  king 
the  deliverance  of  the  aid  Richard  may  he  made  bj  friends  "t  his 
suborned  and  procured,  as  the  king  has  learned.  By  C. 


212 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1875.  Membrane  40d — cord. 

March  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Brodstrete 
Westminster,  of  Hethe  the  elder  '  taillour,'  by  mainprise  of  John  Brode  and  William 
Chivaler  of  Kent  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking 
of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the 
day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of  Alexander  Scolastre 
is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  plaintiff  is  impleading 
him  before  the  said  justices  for  an  alleged  debt  of  10  marks,  that  by 
the  said  writ  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  Kent  to  be  outlawed  for  that 
he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  thereupon,  and  that 
he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
John  Brode  and  William  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of 
40/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

March  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Stele, 
Westminster.  John  Ealand  and  John  Wasket  of  Ying  Hospitall,  by  mainprise  of 
Nicholas  Hokkee  and  Philip  Trikyer  of  Sussex  to  stay  the  taking  of 
their  bodies,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  at 
the  day  divers  writs  de  judicio  against  them  at  the  suit  of  the  prior 
of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  Lawrence 
Clerk  of  Downham  are  returnable  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  the 
said  prior  and  Lawrence  are  impleading  them  before  the  said  justices 
for  "certain  alleged  trespasses,  and  that  by  the  said  writs  order  is  given 
to  take  their  bodies  so  as  to  have  them  at  the  days  set  therein  before 
the  said  justices,  although  they  are  ready  to  answer  the  plaintiffs  and 
stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Nicholas  and  Philip  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  40/.  to  have  their  bodies 
before  the  said  justices  at  the  aforesaid  days. 

March  27.        Henry  de   Bubwyth   of   Pontefract   and   William   de   Methelay   of 
Westminster.  London  '  tapicer  '  to  Roger  de  Barneburgh  clerk.     Joint  and  several 
recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their 
lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Writing  of  Joan  late  the  wife  of  Edmund  de  Chelreye  the  younger 
in  her  widowhood,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Thomas  de  Chelreye  of  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  which  the  said  Thomas  held  in  the  towns 
of  Wokefeld  Banastre  and  Silhampstede.  Dated  Wokefeld  Banastre, 
Tuesday  in  the  third  week  of  Lent  49  Edward  IIL 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
28  March. 

March  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Berkes.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Cohere 
Westminster,  of  Boxore  and  Joan  his  wife,  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Chelreye  of 
Berkshire,  John  Eccles  of  Norffolk,  John  Skyllyng  of  Wiltesir  and 
Stephen  Falle  of  Yorkshire  to  stay  the  exigents  and  waiver  against 
them  respectively  and  the  taking  of  their  bodies,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  John 
de  Preston  '  fissher  '  and  Alice  his  wife  are  impleading  them  before 
the  said  justices  for  an  alleged  debt  of  40s.,  that  they  are  put  in  exigents 
in  Berkshire  to  be  outlawed  and  waived  respectively  for  that  they 
came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  the  plaintiffs,  and  that 
they  are  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  Thomas  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  the  defendants  before  the 
said  justices  the  daj'  the  writ  of  exigents  and  waiver  is  returnable. 


49  EDWARD  111.  213 


1375.  Membrane  :;•.«/. 

Charter  of  William  EyBton  of  Istelworth,  giving  with  warranty  to 
the  king,  his;  heirs  and  assigns,  a  messuage  called  Worton  with  ourtilage 
adjacent  and  93  acres  of  land  in  the  parish  of  Istelworth,  whereof 
1  acre  lies  in  a  field  or  furlong  called  '  Longfaruhull  '  between  land  .  >i 
Richard  Hugyn  oji  the  north  and  John  West  on  the  BOUth,  1  a 
between  land  of  Richard  Postel  on  either  side.  :>  acres  together  betw< 
land  of  Roger  Hullere  on  the  north  and  Richard  Hugyn  on  the  BOUth, 
3  acres  together  between  land  of  Richard  Hugyn  on  the  north  and 
Ralph  Thorbarne  on  the  south,  1  acre  between  land  of  John  \\ 
on  the  north  and  Richard  Postel  on  the  south.  4  aero  together  between 
land  of  Richard  Postel  on  the  north  and  Ralph  Thorbarne  on  the 
south,  1  acre  between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  the  north  and  the 
highway  on  the  south,  1  acre  at  the  end  of  the  said  held  or  furlong 
between  a  meadow  called  "  Heymede  '  and  the  said  held  or  furlong 
extending  '  north  '  and  '  suth  ".  2  acres  in  a  furrow  called 
'  Bruggeforlang  '  between  land  of  Richard  Postel  on  the  south  and 
the  highway  on  the  north,  1  acre  in  a  furrow  called  '  Shortfaruhull  ' 
between  land  of  Thomas  Prust  on  the  south  and  William  Garlek  on 
the  north,  1  acre  between  land  of  the  said  Thomas  on  the  north  and 
Roger  Hullere  on  the  south,  1  acre  between  land  of  Richard  Postel 
on  the  north  and  William  Benet  on  the  south,  3  acres  together  enclosed 
in  a  croft  called  Frith,  5  acres  together  in  the  furrow  of  '  Wythvnn- 
forlang  '  between  land  of  John  Grynford  on  the  south  and  the  highway 
on  the  north,  1  acre  in  a  furrow  called  '  Tounforlang  '  between  land 
of  John  West  on  the  south  and  Ralph  Thorbarne  on  the  north,  1  acre 
between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  the  south  and  Richard  Hugyn  on 
the  north,  1  acre  between  land  of  the  said  Richard  on  either  side, 
1£  acre  together  between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  the  south  and 
Roger  Hullere  on  the  north,  1  acre  between  land  of  Richard  Postel 
on  either  side,  8  acres  together  in  a  furrow  called  '  Wetecroft  '  between 
land  of  Thomas  Prust  on  the  south  and  Ralph  Thorbarne  on  the 
north,  1  acre  between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  either  side,  .1  acre 
between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  either  side.  2\  acres  together  between 
land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  the  south  and  the  highway  on  the  north 
h  acre  between  land  of  Roger  Hullere  on  the  south  and  Ralph  Thorbarne 
on  the  north,  \  acre  called  '  hedland  '  in  length  '  Buth  '  and  '  north,' 
1  rood  between  land  of  John  West  on  the  ea  t  and  W  illiam  Warde 
on  the  west,  \  acre  in  Worton  between  land  of  Roger  atte  llulle  on  the 
south  and  Ralph  Thorbarne  on  the  north.  1  acre  in  a  furrow  called 
'Tounforlang'  between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  the  east  and 
'Tounforlang'  on  the  west,  5  acres  together  in  a  furrow  called 
'  Weteforlang  '  between  the  garden  of  Worton  on  (he  south  and  hind 
of  Ralph  Thorbarne  on  the  north,  I  acre  there  called  '  hedland  '  in 
length  'north  '  and  '  suth,'  2  acres  together  between  land  of  Richard 
Postel  on  the  south  and  Ralph  Thorbarn  on  the  north,  2  acres  together 
between  land  of  Ralph  Thorharn  on  the  south  and  John  Wesl  on 
the  north,  I'  acre  together  between  land  of  Richard  Postel  on  the 
north  and  Roger  Hullere  on  the  south.  '.'>  acres  together  between  land 
of  Ralph  Thorbarn  on  the  north  and  Roger  Hullere  on  the  south. 
3  acrea  severally  between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  cither  Bide  '  esl 
and    wot.'  i  acre  between  land  of  Roger  Hullere  on  the  south  and  the 

,d  Ralph  on  the  north.  I  acre  between  land  of  the  »id  Ralph  on 
the  south  and  Richard  Hugyn  <-n  the  north,  I  acre  between  land  ol 
the  said  Richard  on  the  south  and  the  said  Ralph  on  the  north,  I  acre 


2U  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  39d — cont. 

between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  the  south  and  Christina  Caynel  on 

the  north,  2  acres  together  at  '  Sharpelandes  '  between  land  of  the 

said  Ralph  on  the  east  and  Richard  Postel  on  the  west,  \  acre  between 

land  of  Richard  Postel  on  the  north  and  John  West  on  the  south, 

1  acre  at  '  Chalvecroft  '  between  land  of  William  Thorbarne  on  the 

north  and  the  river  called  '  Borne  '  on  the  south,  3  acres  together 

between  land  of  the  said  William  on  the  south  and  the  said  Ralph  on 

the  north,  1  acre  between  the  highway  on  the  north  and  land  of  Richard 

Postel  on  the  south,  one  croft  in  '  Litulride  '  containing  1  acre  of  land 

b}'  '  Wetforlang,'  1  acre  between  land  of  John  West  on  the  east  and 

Richard  Godwyne  on  the  west,  1  acre  there  between  land  of  Richard 

Godwyne  on  the  east  and  John  Gyle  on  the  west,  1  acre  at  '  Eldebury  ' 

between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  the  south  and  Richard  Postel  on 

the  north,  2|  acres  together  between  land  and  meadow  of  the  said 

Ralph  on  either  side,  1  acre  in  a  furrow  called  the  '  Stene  '  between 

land  of  Richard  Postel  on  the  east  and  John  Gyle  on  the  west,  1  acre 

between  land  of  the  said  John  on  either  side  '  est '  and  '  west,'  1  acre 

there  between  land  of  the  said  Ralph  on  the  east  and  John  Gile  on 

the  west,  1  acre  between  land  of  Peter  Fauelore  on  the  east  and  Roger 

Hullere  on  the  west,  1  acre  between  land  of  John  Pate  on  the  east  and 

the  said  Peter  on  the  west,  1  acre  in  Masewelle  between  land  of  Nicholas 

atte  Hethe  on  the  west  and  John  Perour  on  the  east,  2h  acres  together 

in  '  Leyalle  '  between  land  of  Richard  Postel  on  the  south  and  the  land 

of  '  Yallemede  '  on  the  north  ;    also  80  acres  lying  in  a  place  called 

Imbury  in  the  said  parish  between  '  Babbeworthponte'  and  the  common 

heath  of  Istel worth,  the  site  of  a  water  mill  lately  called  '  Imbury 

mulle  '  Avith  the  pond  adjacent,  20  acres  of  meadow  there,  whereof 

6  acres  lie  in  a  place  called   '  Northmede,'   4   acres  dispersedly  in 

'  Suthmede  '   and   '  Millehawes,'   2   acres   together  in  a  place  called 

'  Heyemede  '    extending    '  north  '    and    '  suth,'    5   acres   together    at 

'  Northmore  '  in  length  '  est '  and  '  west,'  1  acre  in  the  '  Yallemede  ' 

between  land  of  Richard  Postel  on  the  west  and  John  Pate  on  the 

east,  1  acre  at    '  Quabbemede  '    by  land   of   the  said  Ralph  on  the 

north,  and  1  acre  at  '  Merehegge,'  and  9  acres  of  pasture  there  between 

the  said  land  in  Imbury  and  the  said  6  acres  of  meadow,  2  acres  of 

wood   called    '  Wortongrove  '   lying   together   between   the   grove   of 

Ralph  Thurbarne  on  the  north  and  the  Frith  on  the  south,  2  acres 

of  wood  lying  together  in  a  place  called  '  Pirygardyn,'  \  acre  of  wood 

by  the  garden  of  Worton  messuage  enclosed  with  the  said  garden, 

and  2  acres  of  wood  lying  together  called  '  Pirygrove,'  and  a  yearly 

rent  of  19s.  in  the  said  parish  ;    also  50  acres  of  land  lying  together 

in  a  place  called  Osturle  in  the  parish  of  Eston  enclosed  with  hedges 

and  ditches  between  land  of  Richard  Stanes  on  the  west  and  the  high 

road  on  the  east,  and  10  acres  of  land  lying  together  in  '  Lamptonfeld  ' 

called  '  Knyghtland  '  between  land  of  William  Benet  on  the  east  and 

John  Godefray  on  the  west,  1  rood  of  land  at '  Shortchurhulle  '  between 

land  of  Roger  Lyvyng  on  the  east  and  Peter  Fauelore  on  the  west, 

\  acre  there  between  land  of  the  said  Roger  on  the  east  and  the  said 

Peter  on  the  west,  \  acre  near  the  street  between  land  of  Emma  Hikkes 

on  the  east  and  Roger  Wolmere  on  the  west,  1  rood  of  land  there 

between  land  of  John  Godefray  on  the  south  and  John  Kyng  on  the 

north,  1  rood  of  land  at  '  Streteforlang  '  between  land  of  John  Godefray 

on   the   east  and   Roger  Lithyng  on   the  west,    1    acre   of  land   at 

'  Streteforlang  '  between  land  of  the  said  Emma  on  the  east  and  John 


4'.'    EDWAftD    III.  215 


1375.  Membrane  3l)cZ — cant. 

Godefray  on  the  west,  \  acre  of  land  at  '  Horeapuldore '  between 
land  of  Roger  Wolmere  on  the  north  and  Edith  Smyth  on  the  south, 
£  acre  there  between  land  of  the  said  Edith  on  the  south  and  Willi 
Partriche  on  the  north,  i  acre  of  land  there  between  land  of  John 
Godefray  on  the  south  and  the  said  Emma  on  the  north,  ]  acre  of 
land  at  '  Longechurchulle  '  between  land  of  John  Godefray  on  the 
south  and  John  Leurard  on  the  north,  A  acre  of  land  at  '  Sherteahute  ' 
between  land  of  Roger  Lyvyng  on  the  east  and  John  Godefray  on 
the  west,  |  acre  of  land  at  '  Heyemede  '  between  land  of  Roger  Lyvyng 
on  the  south  and  Maud  atte  Pirye  on  the  north,  I  acre  of  land  at  the 
'Forking  '  between  land  of  the  said  Emma  on  the  south  and  Nicholas 
Balle  on  the  north,  1  rood  of  land  at  *  Brodwcyforlang  '  between  land 
of  Roger  Lyvyng  on  the  south  and  Peter  Fauelore  on  the  north,  \  acre 
of  land  at  '  Donewelforlang  '  between  land  of  John  Godefray  on  the 
south  and  Maud  Piryman  on  the  north,  1  rood  of  land  at  '  Bromdioh  ' 
between  land  of  the  said  Maud  on  either  side,  1  rood  of  land  at 
'  Bromforlang  '  between  land  of  Emma  Hikkes  on  the  south  and 
Maud  atte  Pirie  on  the  north,  1  rood  of  land  at  *  Fyneset  '  between 
land  of  Roger  Lyvyng  on  the  west  and  John  Godefray  on  the  east, 
and  1  acre  of  meadow  at  '  Holmede  '  and  '  Est  Dolmede  '  among  other 
parceners  ;  also  the  reversion  of  3  acres  of  land  in  the  said  parish 
of  Istelworth  held  for  life  by  Thomas  brother  of  the  said  William 
with  reversion  to  the  said  William  and  his  heirs,  2  acres  thereof  lying 
together  between  land  of  William  Brune  on  the  south  and  Jolm 
Ruddok  on  the  north,  and  1  acre  in  '  Streteforlang  '  between  land  of 
Clement  Simond  the  younger  on  the  east  and  William  Rede  on  the 
west,  and  the  reversion  of  a  cottage  in  Istelworth  held  for  life  by 
Robert  Mau  with  reversion  to  the  said  William  and  his  heirs.  Witness) 
Andrew  de  Gyldeford  of  Yelling,  Richard  Stanes  of  Heston,  Walter 
Sprot  of  Istelworth,  Thomas  Prust  of  Twykenham,  John  Symme  of 
Heston,  Richard  Postel  of  Wort  on,  John  West  of  Worton.  Dated 
Istelworth,  10  March  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  chancery  at  the  manse  of  the 
friars  preachers  within  the  city  of  London,  14  March. 

Charter  of  William  de  Eyston  of  Istelworth  and  Isabel  his  wife, 
giving  with  warranty  to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  messuage, 
21  acres  of  land,  1  acre  of  meadow  and  7s\  Ad.  of  rent  in  the  town  of 
Heston,  the  messuage  situate  between  tenements  of  John  atte  Stile 
on  the  north  and  John  Petyjor  on  the  south,  2  acres  of  the  land  Lying 
together  between  land  of  John  Litilgold  on  the  west  and  a  public  path 
on  the  east  and  called  'Buttes  atteHawende,'  1  acre  in  '  Tounhamcrofi 
between  land  of  Richard  Stanes  on  the  north  and  William  Smyth  on 
the  south,  1  acre  at  '  Porthorslanende  '  between  land  of  Maud  Elliot 
on  the  east  and  William  Perour  on  the  west.  I  acre  at  '  Totlaweburgh,' 
1  acre  at  '  Hethf orlang '  between  land  of  John  Crane  on  the  south 
and  William  Weyland  on  the  north,  1  acre  al  '  Totlaweburgh  '  between 
land  of  Robert  Kurres  on  the  s,.uth  and  Simon  Cottyng  on  the  north, 
1  acre  between  land  of  Richard  [Jnfraj  on  the  wesl  and  Robert  Kurrea 
on  the  east,  I  acre  between  land  of  Nicholas  Walter  on  i  he  south  and 
Robert  Kurres  on  the  north.  J  acre  at   '  Sherthorne'   between  land  ol 

Richard  Stanee  on  the  east  and  Thorns    <  tsturli the  v 

'  Bromhursl  '  called  'hedland,'  I  acre  al  '  Longeforlang  '  between  land  of 
William  Smyth  on  the  west  and  Thomas  Osturle  on  the  cast,  \  acre  at 


216 


CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1375. 


Membrane  39d — cont. 


'  Tikewelle  '  between  land  of  Thomas  Hikke  on  the  east  and  the  highway 
on  the  west,  o  acre  at '  Heston  Hache  '  between  land  of  Richard  Unfrey 
on  the  oast  and  the  vicar  of  Heston  on  the  west,  £  acre  at  '  Newedyche  * 
between  land  of  Richard  Unfrey  on  the  north  and  William  Perour 
on  the  south,  1  acre  there  between  land  of  William  Friday  on  the  north 
and  Nicholas  Osturle  on  the  south,  1  acre  at  '  Totlaweburgh  '  between 
land  of  Thomas  Hikke  on  the  east  and  John  Weyland  on  the  west, 
2  acres  together  at  '  Poukewelle  '  between  land  of  William  Friday 
on  the  west  and  Walter  Walter  on  the  east,  1  acre  at  '  Wortynlane  ' 
between  land  of  William  Friday  on  the  east  and  William  Weyland  on 
the  west,  I  acre  at  '  Horeapuldore  '  between  land  of  Thomas  Hikke 
on  the  north  and  Nicholas  Rolf  on  the  south,  1  acre  at  '  Litelhese  ' 
between  land  of  John  Odard  on  either  side,  1  acre  at  '  Eldebreche  ' 
between  land  of  William  Perour  on  the  north  and  John  Walter  on 
the  south,  3  roods  together  at  '  Wortynglane  '  between  land  of  Walter 
Walter  on  the  west  and  Nicholas  Rolf  on  the  east,  1  rood  in  '  Eldefeld  ' 
between  land  of  William  Perour  on  the  south  and  Thomas  Hikke  on 
the  north,  the  said  acre  of  meadow  at  '  Tokwelle  '  and  '  Estlotmede  ' ; 
also  the  reversions  of  a  cottage  and  1  acre  of  land  in  the  town  of 
Heston  held  for  life  by  Stephen  Wodman  with  reversion  to  the  said 
William  de  Eyston  and  Isabel  and  to  the  said  William's  heirs,  a 
cottage  in  the  said  town  held  for  life  by  John  Wrong  with  reversion 
(as  the  last),  and  a  messuage  with  garden  and  2  acres  of  land 
adjacent  in  the  said  town  held  for  life  by  William  Wiresdale  with 
reversion  (as  before).  Witnesses  :  Andrew  de  Guldeford  of  Mellyng 
(sic :  the  rest  as  above).  Dated  Heston  (as  above). 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  William  Eyston  (as  the  last). 

March  13.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  and  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant.  Order,  upon  petition  made  on  behalf  of  John  Causer  and 
Richard  Frere,  by  mainprise  of  John  del  Hay  knight,  Hugh  de  Ware, 
Thomas  de  Wylton  and  John  Chypstede  of  London  '  bruere  '  to  set 
them  free  from  the  prison  of  the  Tower  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews 
that  for  particular  causes  lately  laid  before  the  king  and  council  the 
petitioners  were  at  the  king's  command  taken  and  delivered  to  the 
custody  of  the  constable  until  further  order  of  the  king  for  their 
deliverance,  and  that  they  are  ready  at  the  king's  pleasure  to  answer 
touching  whatsoever  is  by  the  king  laid  against  them,  and  to  stand 
to  right  thereupon  ;  and  the  said  John  del  Hay  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
201.,  namely  100s.  each,  to  have  the  petitioners  before  the  king  where 
and  when  he  shall  please.  By  K. 

March  16.        To  William  de  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 

Westminster,  the  Cinque  Ports,  and  to  his  lieutenant.     Order,  for  particular  causes 

moving  the  king,  to  set  free  John  Bode  from  the  prison  of  the  said 

castle  where  he  is  detained,  suffering  him  to  go  his  way.  By  K. 


Membrane  38<2. 

March  31.        Thomas  Maundeville   the  younger  knight  to   Thomas  Catewy  of 
Westminster.  Berkshire.     Recognisance  for  1G0L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


4!)  Edward  hi.  217 


1375.  Membrane  38d—cont. 

March  31.       Thomas  Catewy  of  Berkshire  to  Thomas  Maundevvlle  the  younger 
Westminster,  knight.     Recognisance  for  100/..  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Berkshir 
•  Cancelled  on  payment. 

(Charter  of  Thomas  Maundevylle  the  younger  knight  and  Anne  his 
wife,  giving  with  warranty  to  Thomas  Catewy  and  Joan  his  wife 
and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  Thomas  Catewy  all  their  manor  called 
Michelscourt  within  the  town  of  Borewardescote  as  in  houses,  gardens, 
lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pasture.-,  rents  and  services  of  free  tenants 
and  neifs,  all  their  neifs  there  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  with  the 
advowson  of  Borewardescote  church  co.  Berki  b.  Witnesses  :  Amery 
de  Sancto  Amando,  Hugh  de  Segrave,  John  Golafre,  Thomas  Paynel, 
Peter  Coke  knights,  Edmund  Daunvers,  Gilberl  Shotesbroke,  John 
Worton.     Dated  Borewardescote,  20  February  40  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Thomas  Maundevylle  in  the 
chancery  at  Westminster,  31  March. 

March  30.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Henry  Perot.  Richard 
Westminster.  Bokherst,  John  Clerk  of  Chert  and  William  Arderne  of  Kent  to  stay 
the  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  de  judicio,  ordering  the  sheriff  to 
take  John  Heghham  clerk  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  justices  at 
Westminster  three  weeks  after  Easter  to  answer  John  Farngate 
concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  said 
justices;  as  the  defendant  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing 
that  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  plaintiff  and  stand  to  right  in  all 
things  ;  and  the  said  Henry  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  before 
the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

March  28.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas 
Westminster,  de  Euere  clerk,  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Flaumville  of  Bedfordshire, 
l!  ichard  Eihale  of  Worcestershire,  Ceorge  Rigges  of  London 
'  goldsmyth  '  and  John  atte  Ponde  of  London  '  correour '  to  stay 
the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  w  tit 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  Maud 
de  Burton  is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  to  render  her 
chattels  to  the  value  of  1006'.,  that  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  the  busting 
of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices 
to  answer  her,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in 
all  things  ;  and  the  said  Robeit  and  the  others,  appealing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  100*.  to  have  him  lu-fore 
the  said  justices  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable. 

March  27.       To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  and  to  Ins 

Westminster,  lieutenant.      Older,  upon  petition   made  on   behalf  of  John    Eulot,   by 

inprise  of  Geoffrey  Folham,  William  Courtray,  Thomas  Stanefeld, 
Robert  de  York,  John  Rous- and  John  Herdewike  to  set  him  free  from 
the  prison  of  the  Tower  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  thai  for  particular 

causes  he  was  at  the  king's  command  lately  taken  and  delivered  to 
the  custody  of  the  constable  and  lieutenant,  there  to  be  imprisoned 
until  further  order  <>t  the  Mug  for  his  deliverance,  and  that  be  is  ready 

at  the  king's  pleasure  to  answer  con©  rning  whatsoever  the  king  -hall 
Lay  againsl  him,  and  to  stand  to  right  then  upon  ;  and  m  consideration 

that    .Nicholas    Brcrtram    master   and    owner   {patrcnus)   oi    a    eeitam 


21S  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane,  38d — cont. 

tarit  of  men  of  Cateloigne  who  are  of  the  king's  friendship  which,  being 
laded  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise  of  theirs,  was  lately  by  certain 
the  king's  subjects  burnt  at  sea,  and  other  the  attorneys  of  those  men 
of  Cateloigne  at  whose  suit  the  said  prisoner  is  taken  and  imprisoned 
at  the  king's  command  it  is  said,  have  prayed  the  king  to  set  him  free, 
and  the  said  Geoffrey  and  the  others  have  mainperned  body  for  body 
upon  warning  received  on  the  king's  behalf  by  them  or  any  of  them, 
to  have  him  before  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  fleet  towards 
the  west  and  his  fellows  the  justices  appointed  to  hear  and  determine 
all  and  singular  the  deeds  unduly  attempted  or  committed  by  the 
king's  said  subjects  in  that  behalf,  or  elsewhere  at  the  king's 
command  where  and  when  the  king  shall  please,  in  order  to  answer 
touching  whatsoever  shall  be  laid  against  him,  and  to  stand  to  right 
thereupon  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England  and  the 
maritime  law.  By  C. 

The  like  to  the  said  constable  in  favour  of  Henry  Lovetot  and 
Richard  Pulteneye,  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Moulton  knight,  William 
Spaldyng,  Robert  Josep,  Richard  Fraunceys  and  John  Oxendon.    By  C. 

March  25.  To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Simon  Posselyng, 
Westminster.  Michael  de  Kenyngton  and  Henry  de  Maydestane  of  Kent  and  of 
Stephen  atte  Mersh  of  London  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  late 
writ  de  judicio  to  the  sheriff  addressed,  directing  him  to  put  William 
Skynnere  of  Maydeston  in  exigents  from  county  to  county  until  out- 
lawed if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him 
and  keep  him  in  prison  in  safe  custody,  so  as  to  have  his  body  before 
the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  to  answer 
Thomas  Gomfray  clerk  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  68s.  ;  as  the 
said  William  has  petitioned  for  a  stay,  shewing  that  he  is  ready  so  to 
answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  and  the  said  Simon  and  the 
others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain 
of  100s.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

Writing  of  Edmund  Forster,  son  of  John  Forster,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Nicholas  de  Carreu  the  elder,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  five  gardens,  two  little  woods  called  '  groves,'  one  now  called 
'  Carrewesgrove  '  the  other  '  Marreysgrove,'  and  89|  acres  of  land  in 
the  parish  of  Bedyngton  co.  Surrey,  the  said  gardens  lying  on  the 
west  side  of  the  highway  at  Wodecote,  40  acres  of  the  said  land  together 
on  the  south  and  west  side  of  '  Carrewesgrove,'  16  acres  together  in 
'  Marreysfeld,'  3  acres  in  Waleton  field  at  '  Lategood,'  8  acres  together 
at  the  '  Grene,'  2  acres  at  Sabyndene,'  6  acres  at  '  Brendewodescroft,' 
8  acres  together  at  '  Whetersh  '  on  the  north  side  of  a  piece  of  land  of 
the  said  Nicholas  there,  3  acres  at '  Cattesbrayn,'  1  \  acre  at  the  '  Hache,' 
and  2  acres  at '  Personesdene  '  ;  all  which  premises  he  the  said  Nicholas 
has  and  holds  by  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  Forster  son  of 
Reynold  Forster  of  Bandon.  Witnesses  :  John  Olyver  the  younger 
of  Croydon,  Thomas  Halyng,  John  de  Waleton,  William  Resoun, 
Walter  Taillour.     Dated  Bedyngton,  9  April  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  April. 

April  24.         To  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Bristol.     Request,  made  of  the  king's 

Eltham.       favour,  with  the  assent  and  at  the  petition  of  Richard  des  Armes  who 

at  the  king's  command  had  a  certain  maintenance  for  life  in  that  abbey 


49  EDWARD  III. 


219 


1375. 


Membram  38d — conl. 


by  Letters  to  him  made  under  the  common  Beal  thereof,  which  left 
the  king  has  thought  lit  to  give  up  to  the  abbot,  thai  the  abbot  will 
admit  to  the  said  house  Robert  Harbour  of  Bristol,  whom  the  long  ifl 
sending  thither  willing  that  provision  be  made  him  of  the  maintenai 
aforesaid,  and  will  minister  to  him  such  maintenance  as  the  said  Richard 
had.  making-  him  Letters  patent  under  the  said  common  seal  with 
mention  of  what  he  shall  SO  take,  tor  which  the  king  will  be  bound 
to  the  house  in  their  dealings,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what 
they  will  do  at  this  request.  By  p.s.  [30504.] 

April  23.         Richard  de  Toucestre  the  king's  serjeant  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  con- 

Eltlmm.      vent  of  Chacombe,  to  have  such  maintenance  of  that  house  as  John  de 

Baddeby   deceased   had   at   the  king's   command.        By  p.s.  [30492.] 

Charter  of  William  Maiden,  William  Topclive,  William  Bedmanton 
and  Robert  Claver,  granting  to  Margery  who  was  wife  of  Richard  de 
Croydon  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London  their  manor  and  chapel  of 
Grenche  in  the  town  of  Gillyngham  co.  Kent,  and  all  other  lands, 
rents,  farms  and  services  in  the  said  town  and  the  towns  of  Renhatn. 
Upcherchc,  Herclepe.  Chctham  and  Grene  and  elsewhere  in  Kent 
which  they  lately  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  Richard,  to  hold 
for  her  life  with  remainder  to  John  Philippot  citizen  and  merchant  of 
London  and  Margaret  daughter  of  the  said  Richard  and  to  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  John  Philippot.  Witnesses  :  Roger  Digge,  Richard 
Gillyngham,  Robert  Beaufitz,  Hamon  Lovetot,  Thomas  Bedmanton, 
John  Snel.     Dated  Gillyngham,  Friday  9  March  49  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  May. 

April  23.  To  the  prior  and  convent  of  Kelyngworth.  Order  and  request 
EHham.  to  grant  to  Robert  Wade  the  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension  of 
their  house  as  shall  beseem  the  givers  and  should  bind  the  receiver 
to  them,  making  him  thereupon  letters  patent  under  the  chapter  seal, 
and  writing  again  without  delay  what  they  will  do  ;  as  the  said  prior 
by  reason  of  his  new  creation  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the 
king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until  provision  be  by  the  prior 
made  kim  of  a  benefice,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Robert, 
being  one  of  his  young  clerks  abiding  with  him  in  the  chapel  of  his 
household  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30487.] 


Membrane  'Mil. 

Indenture;  made  bet  ween  Nicholas  abbot  of  Westminster  and  Edward 
Durdent    of    Denham,   being    a    demise  with   warranty  to    the    said 

abbot,   to    whom    the   said    Edward    is    hound    in   20W.    for  divers   00 

by  the  abbot  incurred  in  his  name  and  with  his  assenl  in  defence  of 
the  said  Edward's  lands  in  Denham  for  divers  pleas  and  plaints  against 
the  said  Edward  moved,  of  his  manor  of  Denham  Durdent  with  all 

Other  his  tenements  in   the  town  of   Denham  and  80  acres  of  m.-adou 

in  Berfeld,  to  hold  to  the  said  abbot  and  hi  as  for  15  years  from 

Michaelmas  next.  Covenants  that  it'  within  the  firs!  five  yean  ol  that 
term  the  said  Edward  <>r  any  other  iii  his  name  shall  pay  200  marks, 
it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  .-.ml   Edward,  his  heirs  •  kin  to 

enter  the  premises  and  take  again  then  therein  alter  those  ti\c 


■220  CALENPAE  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  37d — cont. 

years  ;  that  the  said  abbot  shall  perform  all  yearly  services  thereof 
due  and  accustomed,  the  said  Edward  and  his  heirs  acquitting  them 
as  well  toward  the  king  as  toward  others  whatsoever  of  all  demands, 
tallages,  charges  and  imposts  that  may  be  demanded  by  reason  of 
the  premises  or  of  their  goods  and  chattels  therein  during  the  terms 
aforesaid,  and  saving  them  harmless  of  all  losses,  challenges,  claims 
and  pleas  concerning  the  same  ;  that  from  the  end  of  either  term 
to  the  Purification  next  following  the  abbot  and  his  assigns  shall  have 
free  ingress  and  egress  upon  the  premises  for  threshing  and  winnowing 
their  corn  thereupon,  and  for  taking  and  carrying  the  same  away 
and  other  their  goods  and  chattels  whither  they  shall  please  without 
let  ;  that  the  abbot  shall  maintain  all  houses  therein  which  he  will 
occupy  during  the  said  terms,  and  shall  leave  the  same  in  as  good 
a  state  as  he  received  them,  age,  ruin  by  strong  tempest  and  sudden 
or  accidental  fire  excepted,  for  maintenance  and  repair  whereof  and 
of  the  bridges  of  the  said  manor  the  abbot  shall  take  sufficient  timber 
thereupon,  but  the  abbot  shall  not  be  bound  to  repair  the  other  houses 
which  he  will  not  nor  cares  to  occupy  ;  that  the  abbot  and  his  assigns 
may  take  thereupon  '  fy rebut,'  '  housebut '  and  '  hayebut  '  to  be 
thereupon  spent,  and  sufficient  timber  for  their  folds,  ploughs,  harrows 
and  wains  when  need  be  ;  that  during  those  terms  the  said  Edward 
or  his  heirs  shall  make  no  alienation  of  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof 
Avithout  the  abbot's  will  and  assent ;  that  for  fulfilment  of  all  these 
covenants  the  said  Edward  binds  himself,  his  heirs  and  executors  in 
200?.  ;  that  in  the  last  year  of  the  said  terms  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the 
said  Edward  and  his  heirs  without  let  of  the  abbot  or  his  assigns  to 
fallow  and  plough  again  the  lands  of  the  said  manor  which  in  that 
year  ought  to  be  fallowed  according  to  the  season  of  the  manor,  and 
to  sow  the  same,  also  during  the  said  term  to  fall  trees  therein  growing 
for  repair  of  the  houses  which  the  abbot  is  not  bound  to  repair,  and  to 
cut  and  sell  the  great  wood  and  underwood  therein  growing,  saving 
to  the  abbot  and  his  assigns  '  housebut,'  '  hayebut,'  and  '  fyrebut ' 
as  aforesaid.  Dated  Denham,  Thursday  after  the  Annunciation 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  14  April. 

Writing  of  Thomas,  son  of  Robert  Freville  and  of  Joan  his  wife 
deceased  (defuncte),  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  the  said  Robert, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  claim  as  the  said  Joan's  heir  or  otherwise  in  a 
messuage,  120  acres  of  land  and  4s.  of  rent  in  Wylye  co.  Hertford,  whereof 
a  fine  was  lately  levied  in  the  king's  court  between  the  said  Robert  and 
Joan  and  John  Beauchamp  knight  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  acknowledg- 
ing the  premises  to  be  the  right  of  the  said  Joan  with  quitclaim  by 
the  said  John  and  Elizabeth  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Elizabeth  to 
the  said  Joan  and  her  heirs.     Dated  22  September  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  April  this  year. 

April  15.  To  John  de  Cavendissh,  William  de  Wichyngham,  John  Brewes, 
Westminster.  John  de  Reymes,  Edmund  Gourneye  and  William  Clere.  Order,  for 
particular  causes,  to  stay  until  Midsummer  next  and  until  further 
order  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  letters  patent  appointing  them, 
five,  four,  three  and  two  of  them,  the  said  John  de  Cavendissh  or  else 
William  de  Wichyngham  being  one,  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men 
of  Norffolk  concerning  the  names  of  the  evildoers  who  with  Henry  Rose 


49  EDWARD  III. 


221 


1375. 


Membrane  3ld — cont. 


and  others  committed  the  trespass  hereinafter  rehearsed,  and 
the  truth  concerning  that  trespass,  and  to  hear  and  determine  the 
same  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England,  and  order  t<>  stay 
any  farther  proceedings  thereupon;  as  by  the  grievous  complaint 
of  Hugh  Burnell  knight  and  William  Kerdeston  knight  the  king  learned 
that  the  said  Henry.  Drew  Gemer  Roger  de  Walsham,  Roger  Bonde, 
William  Bonde,  John  Bonde,  John  Perkynsone,  William  son  ol  Rob 
Loistres,  Thomas  Stanbote,  John  Carevylle,  Thomas  Sowere  and 
Henry  Hardy  and  other  evildoers  and  disturbers  of  the  peace, 
being  armed  and  arrayed  in  manner  of  war  with  pennon  {/x  nnneello) 
raised,  by  force  of  arms  broke  a  close  and  two  boats  of  theirs 
Estriston,  took  and  brought  away  eight  boats  of  theirs  there  found 
price  40/.,  cut  down  an  oak  of  theirs  and  mowed  their  grass  tl 
lately  growing,  dug  in  their  marsh,  and  took  and  carried  away  the 
turfs  thence  cast  up,  the  grass  and  oak  aforesaid  and  other  their 
goods  and  chattels  to  the  value  of  100/..  assaulted  their  men 
and  servants  there  and  at  Brunstede,  beating,  wounding  and  evil 
entreating  them  so  that  their  lives  were  despaired  of,  whereby  for 
long  time  the  complainants  lost  their  service,  and  inflicted  other 
grievous  hurt  upon  them  contrary  to  the  peace. 

April  24.  To  the  same.  Like  order  ;  as  by  the  grievous  complaint  of  William 
Westminster.  Mugge  the  king's  clerk,  warden  of  his  free  chapel  of  Wyndesore  the 
king  learned  that  the  said  Henry  etc.  (as  above)  by  force  of  arms  broke 
the  said  warden's  close  at  Estriston,  took  and  brought  away  six  horses, 
six  mares,  eight  kine,  twelve  swine  and  fifty  geese  of  his  there  found 
price  40/.,  entered  his  free  warren  there  and  at  Redelyngton  and 
hunted  therein  without  his  will  and  licence,  took  and  carried  away 
goods  and  chattels  of  his  found  at  the  said  town  of  Estriston  to  the 
value  of  100/.,  and  hares,  conies,  pheasants  and  partridges  from  the 
said  warren,  assaulted  certain  his  men  and  servants  there,  beating, 
wounding  and  evil  entreating  them  so  that  their  life  was  despaired  of 
and  threatening  his  other  men  and  servants  there  in  life  and  limbs 
so  that  they  dared  not  there  abide  nor  repair  elsewhere  in  those  parts 
to  make  complainant's  profit  as  they  were  hound  to  do,  whereby  for 
long  time  complainant  lost  their  service,  and  indicted  other  grievous 
hurt  upon  complainant  contrary  to  the  peace. 

Vacated,  because  given  up  and  nothing  dune  thereupon. 

May  5.  Warm  de  Insula  knight  to  Walter  Aubrey  of  Fauelore  oo.   Berkes. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  800  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Berkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon 
condition  that  Sir  Warin  del  Isle  knight,  his  heirs,  executors  or  Borne 
other  in  their  name  shall  pay  100  marks  to  Walter  Aubrej  of  Fauelore 
co.  Berkes  on  the  (*j  day  of  May  next  in  the  ohurch  called 
Aldermarychurohe  in  Cordewanerstrete  ward  London.  Dated  London, 
6  May  49  Edward  III.     French. 

M(  mora nd nm  of  acknowledgment     6   May. 

Vacated  until  brought  again,  becav  tfficient. 

♦   Tl,.    dftj    loll    WuuU. 


O'l.) 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375. 


Membrane  37d — cont. 


May  0.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert  de 

Westminster.  Middelton,  if  he  be  taken  and  imprisoned  in  Neugate  gaol  for  the 
cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other,  by  mainprise  of 
Richard  de  Grene  knight  and  Robert  de  Sutton  cordwainer  of  London 
to  cause  him  to  be  set  free  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  lately  among 
certain  evildoers  and  disturbers  of  the  peace  who  threatened  the 
prior  of  Merton's  person  and  to  burn  the  priory  unless  he  should  send 
them  100  marks  it  is  said,  the  said  prisoner  was  taken  by  the  sheriffs 
and  committed  to  the  said  gaol  upon  suspicion,  although  he  knew 
nought  of  the  malice  of  those  evildoers  as  he  avers ;  and  the  said  Richard 
and  Robert  de  Sutton,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
main perned  under  a  pain  of  100  marks  for  his  good  behaviour  toward 
the  king  and  the  said  prior  and  toward  others  whatsoever,  and  that  he 
shall  do  or  procure  nought  which  may  tend  to  breach  of  the  peace 
and  hurt  of  the  king,  the  prior  and  the  king's  subjects.     By  K.  and  C. 

Charter  of  John  Allerton,  giving  with  warranty  to  Richard  Lescrope 
knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  messuage  and  croft  and  4  acres  of 
land  in  the  towns  of  Ellerton  and  Bolton  upon  Swale  in  Richemonde- 
shire  co.  York.  Witnesses  :  Henry  de  Bellerby,  Richard  de  Richemond, 
Geoffrey  de  Gormyre,  John  de  Gunwardebjr,  George  Darell.  Dated 
Ellerton  upon  Swale,  7  May  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  May. 

May  12.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Roger  Gresley, 
Westminster.  Richard  Forstere  of  London,  John  de  Morton  clerk  and  John  Blaby 
of  Staffordshire  to  set  free  William  de  Neuhawe  who  is  by  the  sheriffs 
taken  and  imprisoned  at  the  king's  command  ;  as  lately  at  the  prayer 
of  Master  Walter  Herlyng,  averring  that  the  said  William  threatened 
him  in  life  and  limbs,  the  king  ordered  them  to  cause  him  to  come 
before  them,  and  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain 
to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them,  Avould  mainpern  that  he  should 
do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Walter  ;  but  the 
said  Roger  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainpemed  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  20/. 


Membrane  36d. 

Writing  of  Joan  Sonynghulle,  daughter  of  John  Sonynghulle  deceased 
of  Berkshire,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William 
le  Venour  citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
the  manor  of  Sonynghulle  and  a  messuage,  100  acres  of  land,  40  acres, 
of  pasture  and  3  acres  of  wood  in  Whitenham  in  the  same  county 
which  the  said  William  lately  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John 
Sonynghulle  brother  of  the  said  Joan  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Foxlee  knight,  John  Sonynghulle,  John  Wecche 
then  steward  of  the  king's  manor  of  Cookham,  Robert  Baker,  John 
Bunfeld,  Robert  Milton,  Thomas  Geffrey.  Dated  Sonynghulle, 
20  March  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  May. 

Charter  indented  of  Alan  Bole  of  Kilnse  rector  of  Holmton  chapel 
and  John  de  Holaym  chaplain,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  de 
Redmar  and  Maud  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  all  their 


49  EDWARD  TTT. 


223 


1375. 


Mi  mbrant   36rf — cant. 


messuage  built,  two  tofts  and  seven  novates  of  land  in  Redmar,  one 
toft  and  half  a  novate  of  land  in  Esyngton,  a  pieoe  of  land  called 
Lokholme  and  another  piece  of  land  called  Whetholme  in  the  said 
town  of  Esyngton,  all  which  they  sometime  had  by  gift  and  feoffment 
of  the  said  John  Redmar,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  heirs  to  the 
right  heirs  of  the  said  John  de  Redmar.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Sancto 
Martino,  Stephen  de  Redmar,  Thomas  de  Thornton  of  Rysum,  Ralph 
de  Sancto  Martino,  Stephen  de  Xeuton.  Dated  Redmar.  Friday  before 
Midsummer  24  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Holaym,  14  March  this 
year  before  the  abbot  of  Melsa  at  his  manor  of  Otryngham,  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery 
for  this  year. 

May  11.         John  Plescy  and  Robert  Camell  to  John  de  Benyngton  citizen  of 
Westminster.  London.     Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Dorset. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  15.  Ralph    de    Huntyngdon    to    John    Wvneslowe.     Recognisance    for 

Westminster.  300/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Cambridgeshire. 

Indenture  made  between  John  Wvneslowe  and  Ralph  de  Huntyng- 
don, being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition 
that  Mary  wife  of  the  said  John  shall  live  14  3  ears  after  the  date  thereof, 
or  that  if  she  die  within  that  term  the  said  Ralph  and  Elizabeth  his 
wife  or  such  heirs  of  the  said  Elizabeth  who  shall  be  of  full  age  after 
her  death  shall  be  ready  40  days  after  request  made  by  the  said  John, 
his  heirs  or  assigns  or  any  other  in  their  name,  by  fine  at  his  cost  to 
release  to  the  said  John,  his  heirs  and  assigns  or  to  those  who  shall 
be  tenants  of  the  said  manor  all  their  right  in  the  manor  of  Trompyngton 
co.  Cantebrigge  which  was  of  William  Crocheman  knight,  together 
with  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  thereof  now  held  in  dower  by 
Maud  wife  of  John  Esmon,  and  in  all  other  the  lands,  rents  and  sen  ioea 
in  that  town  which  were  of  the  said  William,  and  all  other  lands,  rents 
and  services  whatsoever  which  shall  by  the  said  .Mary  be  recovered 
by  action  of  ancestor,  deraigned  by  entry  or  by  agreement,  alter  the 
same  shall  be  so  recovered  from  the  tenants  of  any  land  or  rent 
affecting  the  heritage  of  the  said  William  in  Cambridgeshire  or  else- 
where; also  that  the  said  Ralph  and  Elizabeth,  or  the  heirs  of 
Elizabeth  if  she  die  within  the  said  term,  shall  upon  like  request  and 
warning  be  ready  by  fine  likewise  to  release  to  the  said  John  Wynselowe, 
his  heirs  or  assigns,  the  manors  of  Bamstede,  Radewyntre,  Dunstede, 
Asshedoun,  Fynchyngfeld  and  Samford  00.  Essex,  and  all  other 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  Essex  or  elsewhere  which  wrere  the  said 

William'-  in  ease  John  Wynselowe  be  tenant  of  the  same,  or  to  mi.Ii 
being  tenants  thereof  as  he.   his  heirs  or  assigns,  will  and  ia1 

they  so  do  at  the  time  of  such  request,  together  with  the  re  rsion 
of  the  third  part  of  the  premises  now  held  in  dower  as  afores  lid.  Dated 
15  May  19  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  In  the  chan< 
Westminster,   15  May. 

Writing  of  John   de  Swvnlev   olerk   archdeacon  of   Huntyngdon, 
and  John  de  Bwynley  brother  of  William  de  S  Fynlej  wmetiiM  the 


224  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  36d — cont. 

king's  helmet  maker  in  the  Tower  of  London,  being  a  general  release 
to  Walter  Chippenham  then  lieutenant  of  the  said  Tower  of  all  suits, 
appeals,  actions  real  and  personal,  plaints  and  demands  against  him 
for  the  death  of  the  said  William  or  for  any  other  cause.  Witnesses : 
John  Fifyde,  Stephen  Merssh,  Hugh  Heryerde,  William  Assheford, 
William  de  la  Garderobe,  John  Waleys.  Dated  London,  19  April 
49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  by  the  said  John  the  brother 
12  May,  by  the  said  clerk  16  May. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  la  Ryver  parson  of  Brandesby,  being  a  gift  and 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de  Plesyngton,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  all  his  right  in  all  lands  etc.  in  the  town  of  Brafferton  and  elsewhere 
in  Yorkshire  which  the  said  Robert  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of 
William  de  la  Ryver,  son  of  John  de  la  Ryver  lord  of  Brandesby. 
Dated  the  church  of  St.  Andrew  Holbourne  in  the  suburb  of  London, 
20  November  48  Edward  IIT. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  May  this  year. 

May  8.  To  the  guardian  of  the  spirituality  of  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury 

Westminster,  during  the  vacancy  of  the  see.  Request  for  his  prayers,  and  for  the 
pra3rers  of  the  clergy  of  the  diocese,  for  the  furtherance  of  the  king's 
sons  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  and  John  duke  of  Brittany,  and 
of  other  his  lords,  nobles  and  lieges  whom  the  king  is  sending  over  sea 
to  preserve  the  rights  of  his  kingdom. 

[Fosdera.] 

The  like  to  A.  archbishop  of  York,  and  to  singular  the  bishops 
throughout  England  and  Wales. 

[Ibid.] 

To  the  prior  provincial  of  the  order  of  friars  preachers  in  England. 
Like  request  for  his  prayers  and  the  pra}^ers  of  his  brethren  the 
friars  under  him. 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  minister  of  the  order  of  friars  minors  in  England. 

The  prior  provincial  of  the  order  of  friars  hermits  of  Mount  Carmel 

in  England. 
The  prior  provincial  of  the  friars  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine 
in  England. 

Membrane  35c?. 

Writing  of  Luke  son  of  John  Lucas  of  Great  Dunmowe  co.  Essex, 
giving  with  warranty  to  John  Cauntebregge  of  the  same,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  two  thirds  of  a  messuage,  of  100  acres  of  land,  4  acres  of 
meadow,  8  acres  of  pasture,  2J  acres  of  wood  and  24s.  of  rent  in  the 
town  of  Great  Dunmowe,  with  the  reversion  of  one  third  of  the 
premises  now  held  in  dower  by  Emma  Yonge  for  her  life,  which  were 
sometime  of  Walter  le  Yonge,  with  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats 
etc.  Witnesses  :  Robert  Knechebole,  John  Arnold,  William  Saward, 
John  Northwode,  William  Michel,  William  Wysman,  John  Redhefd. 
Dated  Dunmowe  aforesaid,  7  May  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  May. 


49  EDWARD    III.  225 


1375.  Membrane  Sod — cont. 

May  11.  John  Burgeys  the  elder,  Robert  atte  Cherehe  and  John  Harry  of 

Westminster.  Essex  to  the  king.     Recognisance  for  100J.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John, 
Robert  and  John  pay  to  the  king  100  marks  at  the  receipt  of  the 
exchequer  on  Whitsunday  1378. 

May  29.  William  Jankyn  of  Kent  to  the  king.     Recognisance  for  100  marks, 

Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Kent. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  William 
pay  to  the  king  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  40J.  on  Whitsunday  1378. 

June  1.  Bartholomew  Stygayn  of  Essex  and  Ellis  Regner  of  Kent  to  the 

Westminster,  king.     Recognisance  for  100L,  to  be  levied  in  Essex. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said 
Bartholomew  and  Ellis  pay  100  marks  to  the  king  at  the  receipt  of 
the  exchequer  on  Whitsunday  1378. 

May  16.         John    de    Westwycombe    of    Hertfordshire    to    John    de    Swynle 
Westminster,  archdeacon  of  Huntingdon.     Recognisance  for  4/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Hertfordshire. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  John  de  Goldyngham  knight,  being  a 
grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Simon  bishop  of  London,  John 
de  Sudebury  his  brother,  John  de  Reveshale  and  John  Wysebeche, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Twynstede  co.  Essex. 
Witnesses  :  Simon  Longe,  John  atte  Wrelde,  William  Spore,  Richard 
Genterv  of  Henye,  Peter  Astelee,  John  atte  Bothe,  John  atte  Welle. 
Dated  Twynstede,  14  May  49  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  May. 

Writing  of  Andrew  Pykemond  of  Shenyngfeld,  being  a  general 
release  to  John  Pykemond  of  Shenyngfeld  of  all  actions  real  and 
personal.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Foxle  knight,  Sir  Adam  de 
Hertyngdon  clerk,  Ralph  Restwold,  Robert  Bulloc,  Edmund  de 
Hyndon,  Robert  Lenham,  Thomas  Ganefeld.  Dated  London, 
28  January  49  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Andrew  Pykemond  of  Shenyngfeld.  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  John  Pykemond  of  Shenyngfeld,  his  heirs  ami  assigns, 
of  all  the  lands,  rents,  services  etc.  in  Shenyngfeld  and  Swalefeld 
which    were   sometime   of   Ralph    Pykemond.     Win  and    date 

(as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  Is  May. 

Writing  of  Sir  John  de  Bret  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 

to  Nicholas  de  Bakewell,  bis  liens  and  assigns,  .if  ;ill  lands,  rents  and 

services  in   Eynkerreshulle  and  Stavelegh  and  of  the  whole  fee  <>f 

ivelegh  and  of  all  reversions  there  pertaining  to  him  the  said  .John 
and  his  heirs.      Witm-  see  :    Sir  John  de  boiilhcham  the  elder.  Sir  John 

de  Loutheham  the  younger  knights,  Anker  de  Freoheville  lord  of 
Stavelegh.  Dated  Chestrefeld,  Sunday  the  feasl  of  the  Annunciation 
49  Edward  III. 

16 


22G  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1876.  Membrane  35d — cont. 

Writing  of  Sir  John  Brette  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Nicholas  de  Baucwell,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Williamthorp  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  which  he  the  said  Sir 
John  had  in  Walton,  Wolley  and  Normanton  co.  Derby,  with  all 
reversions  in  the  said  towns  to  him  and  his  heirs  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  Richard  de  Tyssynton,  Sir  Richard  de  Treton  clerks, 
Robert  Martille,  Thomas  de  Sutton,  Thomas  Durant.  Dated  London, 
19  May  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings, 
19  May. 

Writing  of  Richard  Gouytz,  son  and  heir  of  John  Gouytz  of  Kyrchil 
and  Eleanor  his  wife,  confirming  with  warranty  the  estate  of  William 
Payn  and  Eleanor  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said  Richard,  in  the  manors 
of  Tollard  and  Kyrchil,  which  they  hold  in  her  right  by  virtue  of  a 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  to  the  said  John  his  father  and  Eleanor  and 
to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  which  estate  his  said  mother  has  peaceably 
held  and  long  time  continued  after  his  father's  death,  and  granting  with 
warranty  that  the  said  William,  if  he  shall  overlive  the  said  Eleanor, 
shall  hold  the  same  all  his  life,  rendering  to  the  said  Richard  and 
to  his  heirs  one  rose  yearly  at  Midsummer,  and  doing  for  him  the 
services  due  and  accustomed  to  the  chief  lords  of  the  fee,  and  after 
the  said  William's  death  those  manors  shall  revert  to  the  said  Richard 
and  to  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  James  Walbrond  then  mayor  of  Warham, 
Thomas  de  Stoke,  William  Chike,  Walter  Heryng,  William  Pacche, 
William   Englond.     Dated  Warham,  Mondav  after   the    Purification 

48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  May  this  year. 

April  12.         John  Pert  knight  and  William  his  son  to  Henry  Lescrope  knight. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of   payment,  of 
their  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  Avas  taken  by  Richard  de 
Ravenser  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  by  virtue  of  a  writ  of  dedimus 
potestatem  to  him  addressed  which  is  on  the  files  for  this  year. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  20Z.  for  Richard  de 
Weston  chaplain  made  29  May  by  John  de  Weston,  Lawrence  de 
Weston ,  William  de  Osmundethorp  and  Master  John  Foundour  of  London, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  that  he  shall  do  or  procure  no  hurt 
or  harm  in  body  or  goods  to  Hugh  Garewell  and  John  Blyton  knight, 
nor  to  John  Bate  and  Thomas  de  Thornhaghe  bailiffs  of  Lincoln. 

Membrane  34rf. 

Writing  of  Hugh  la  Zouche  lord  of  Assheby  la  Zouche  knight,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Robert  la 
Zouche,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Farlee 
Mortemer  co.  Suthampton.  Witnesses  :  Bernard  Brokas,  Hugh 
Cammoys,  Robert  Markaunt,  Philip  de  Popham,  Ralph  de  Norton 
knights^  Henry  Popham,  Philip  Bavnard.     Dated  Winchester,  24  May 

49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  May. 


49  EDWARD  III.  227 


1375.  Membrane  34i — cont. 

Writing  of  Payn  de  Sancto  Claro,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Edward  de  Sancto  Johanne  and  Dame  Joan  his  wife,  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  Joan,  of  the  manor  of  Grymeston  co.  NorfJolk. 
Witnesses  :  Robert  de  Morle,  William  de  Wichvngham  knights, 
William  Newhous,  Nicholas  de  Bracle,  John  Staple.  Dated  Grymeston 
20  September  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  May  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Thomas  ap  Adam  knight,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Katherine  de  Berkelee  lady  of  Wotton,  John  de 
Berkelee  her  son  and  the  heirs  male  of  the  said  John,  and  to  Thomas 
de  Berkelee  lord  of  Berkelee,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  castle  and 
manor  of  Beverston  and  the  manor  of  Overe  co.  Gloucester,  the  manor 
of  Barwe  and  a  messuage  and  four  virgates  of  land  in  Tykenham 
co.  Somerset,  and  the  advowson  of  Schernecote  church  co.  Wiltesir. 
Witnesses  :  Peter  de  Veel,  Nicholas  de  Berkelee  knights,  John 
Sergeaunt,  John  de  Weston,  Adam  Legat,  William  Smalcombe. 
(Undated.) 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  May. 

May  29.  Walter  Bervlle  to  Edmund  de  Arundell  knight.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  300/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Dorset. 

Writing  of  Walter  Berille,  giving  to  Sir  Edmund  de  Brendell  (sic) 
knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  20/.  of  yearly  rent  to  be  taken  at  Piaster 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  all  the  said  Walter's  lands  in 
Xorthtatton  and  Suthtatton,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and 
in  name  of  seisin  he  has  delivered  to  the  said  Edmund  40d.  Dated 
Saturday  before  the  Ascension  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  June. 

Writing  of  Edmund  de  Brendell  (sic)  knight,  being  the  defeasance 
of  a  recognisance  in  chancery  for  300/.  to  him  made  by  Walter  Berylle 
of  Tatton  on  29  May,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Walter,  who  by 
writing  enrolled  in  chancery  has  granted  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  to  the 
said  Edmund,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  not  alien  nor  demise  his 
lands  in  Northtatton  and  Southtatton  or  any  parcel  thereof  in  fee, 
for  a  term  of  life  or  of  years  longer  than  ten  years,  save  only  for  the 
purpose  of  taking  again  an  estate  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body 
without  disherison  of  him  or  his  heirs,  and  that  the  said  Walter  or 
his  heirs  shall  repay  to  the  said  Edmund  any  costs  he  shall  incur  for 
preservation  of  the  inheritance  of  the  premises.  Dated  29  May 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  June. 

Writing  of  John  Bysshopeston  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  William  Borland  knight  and  Christina  his  wife,  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  William,  <>t  the  manor  of  Merkhalle  with  Latton 

fair  and  all  other  the  lands,  rants,  reversions  and  servioes  m  the 
hundred  "t  Berlawe  co.  Essex  sometime  of  William  Fords  olerk. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas Tin-n  knight,  John  Bampton,  Thomas  fill  Richard, 
William  Aylmar,  Thomas  Leignee,  Nicholas  fill  Riohard,  John  EnefekL 
Dated  Latton,  Sunday  aftei  St.  Nicholas  i^  Ed  •  ud  111 


228  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  34d5 — cont. 

Writing  of  John  Bisshopeston  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  William  Borland  knight,  Christiana  (or  Christina)  his  wife,  Thomas 
Cheyne  knight,  Robert  Lamborne  parson  of  Wymbissh,  Thomas 
Wolton  (or  Walton),  Thomas  Barwe  and  Thomas  Lamb  clerks,  and  to 
the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  William,  Thomas  Cheyne,  Robert, 
Thomas  Wolton,  Thomas  Barwe  and  Thomas  Lamb,  of  the  manor 
of  Merkhalle  with  Latton  fair  and  all  other  lands,  rents,  reversions 
and  services  in  the  hundred  of  Herlawe  co.  Essex  sometime  of  William 
Forde  clerk.     Witnesses  and  date  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  2  June 
this  year. 

Writing  of  John  Vyncent  of  Rothewell,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Richard  de  Wodeforde  parson  of  Lobenham  and  John 
Parkere  of  Olney,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Thorp  by 
Lobenham  and  Haclynton  by  Pidyngton,  a  messuage,  three  carucates 
of  land,  24  acres  of  meadow,  16  acres  of  pasture  and  3s.  4d.  of 
rent  in  Archyngworth  co.  Norhampton.  Dated  London,  3  June 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  June. 

June  6.  John  Fynch  of  Barndeslegh  to  John  de  Worth  knight.   Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  500Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Gloucestershire. 

John  de  Worthe  knight  to  John  Fynch  of  Barndeslegh.  Recognisance 
for  100£.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Gloucestershire. 

June  15.         William  Ayston  of  Istelworth  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 

Sheen  Manor.  Pyppewelle,  to  have  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  abbey  as  John 

Gardyner  deceased  had  at  the  king's  command.         By  p.s.  [30555.] 

Membrane  33d. 

Charter  of  Edmund  de  la  Chambre,  giving  with  warranty  to  William 
Potton  clerk,  Thomas  Sewale,  Robert  Tuylet,  Edmund  de  Lakyngheth, 
Ralph  Bateman  and  John  Bateman  the  younger,  their  heirs  and 
assigns  and  the  assigns  of  their  assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  the  town  and  fields  of  Harleton  co.  Cantebrigge  which  fell  to  him 
by  inheritance  after  the  death  of  Joan  de  la  Chambre  his  mother. 
Witnesses  :  Roger  Descales  lord  of  Neweseles,  Hugh  la  Zuche  knight, 
Roger  de  Herlaston,  Henry  Englissh,  John  Payn,  John  Tyteshale, 
John  West,  Robert  Sterne.  Dated  Friday  before  St.  Dunstan 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  May. 

Charter  of  Richard  de  Clyvedon,   son  of  Matthew  de  Clyvedon, 

Siving  with  warranty  to  John  de  Panes,  John  Leye,  Peter  Rameshulle, 
ohn  Colyngbourne,  John  Warneford  and  Richard  Holte,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  etc. 
in  the  towns  of  Rengeworth  and  Ireneacton  co.  Gloucester.  Witnesses  : 
John  Tracy,  John  Poyntz,  Peter  de  Veel  knights,  John  Serjaunt, 
John  Stanshawe,  John  de  Lucy.  Dated  Rengeworth,  Sunday  before 
the  Annunciation  49  Edward  III. 


49  EDWARD  111. 


229 


1375. 


M'/nbrune  33d — cant. 


Writing  of  Richard  de  Clyvedon,  son  of  Matthew  de  Clyvedon, 
being  a  letter  of  attorney  appointing  John  Shergreve  ohaplain,  I 
Gamboun  and  William  Thurbourne  his  attorneys  to  deliver  to  John 
Panes,    John    Leye,    Peter    Rameshulle,    John    Colyngbourne,    John 
W  arneford  and  Richard  Holte  seisin  of  all  his  lands,  rente  and  Ben  . 
etc.  in  the  towns  of  Rengeworth  and    Irene  Acton  oo.  Gloueestre, 
according  to  his  charter  of  feoffment.     Dated  Rengeworth,  Monday 
before  the  Annunciation  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  23  May. 

May  28.  Henry  Percehay  to  John  Chidyok  knight  and  William  de  Henton. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  160/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Somerset. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Henry 
pay  80/.  on  the  feast  of  Corpus  Christi  next. 

May  28.         John  de  Chidiok  knight  to  Edmund  de  Arondell  knight  and  Henry 
Westminster.  Molyns.     Recognisance  for  500/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 

Writing  of  Edmund  Darundell  knight  and  Henry  Molyns,  being  a 
defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  in 
accordance  with  the  intent  of  an  indenture  made  between  the  said 
Edmund  and  others  and  Sir  John  de  Chidiok,  Sir  John  Chidiok 
knight  shall  between  this  date  and  the  quinzaine  of  Midsummer  next 
deliver  for  safe  custody  to  the  abbot  of  Glastyngbirs  a  charter  of 
Sir  John  de  Meryet  granting  to  him  the  said  John  de  Chidiok  and  his 
heirs  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of  Great  Lopene  and  Great  Stratton, 
and  the  attornment  of  the  tenants  of  the  said  manors.  Dated  29  May 
49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  May. 

Writing  of  Hugelina  sometime  wife  of  John  de  Cantilupo,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Thomas  Fitz  William  and  Joan  his  wife, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Maydinuell  and  Southsomer- 
cotes  co.  Lincoln.  Witnesses  :  John  de  Haghe,  Robert  de  Cumber- 
worth,  Thomas  de  Haghe,  Henry  da  Rettford,  John  Stynte.  Dated 
Maydinwelle,  Saturday  after  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul  19  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at   Blanket  re,  Saturday   before 
St.  Peter's  Chair,  before  John  de  Cavendissh,   by  virtue  of  the  kin 
writ  of  dedimus  polestalem,  which  is  upon  the  hies  of  ohanoery  for 
this  year. 

June  1.  Guy     de     Briene     knight     to     Richard     de     Wall  knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  500  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  detank  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Devon. 

The  said  Guy  to  the  said  Richard.     Recognisance  for  2,000/.  payable 

at  Michaelmas  1370.  to  be  levied  etc.  a    b<  I 


June  2.         Walter  de   Romeseye   knighl    to    Richard   de    Pembrugge   knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  lor  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  coiint\  tn.iinptoii. 


230  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  33d — cord. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  Grymbaud,  cousin  and  heir  of  William 
Grymbaud,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Nicholas  de  Styuecle, 
John  Hemyngford,  Robert  Waryn,  Richard  Ramesholt  and  John  de 
St3'uecle,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Grymbaudes  and  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  etc.  in  Dodyngton,  Bowton,  Southo  and 
Buckeden  co.  Huntingdon.  Witnesses :  William  Moigne  knight, 
Lawrence  Papenham  knight,  Simon  de  Burgh,  John  Walsshef  of 
Dodyngton,  Geoffrey  Hildegar,  Robert  Huntyngdon  of  Catteworth, 
William  Dulav.  Dated  Dodyngton,  Monday  after  the  Ascension 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
5  June. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Robert  Vincent  of  Rothe well,  being  a  grant 
and  surrender  to  Andrew  Broun  of  4  marks  of  rent  ftTbe  taken  by 
the  hands  of  divers  the  said  Andrew's  tenants  in  the  town  of  Rothewell, 
namely  of  Robert  Terry  42s.  4d.,  of  Robert  Pycheslee  5s.  8d.,  of  Thomas 
Aldewyncle  5s.  4d.,  which  rent  the  said  Andrew  granted  to  him  the 
said  John  and  to  his  assigns  during  his  life.  Dated  Westminster, 
5  June  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  June. 

June  1.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Denham 

Westminster,  and  Robert  Gillam  of  Kent,  John  Maldon  of  Essex  and  William 
Gisburgh  of  London  to  set  free  from  Neugate  prison  John  Rud 
chaplain,  whom  they  have  taken  and  there  imprisoned  by  virtue  of  the 
king's  late  writ,  issued  upon  the  petition  of  John  Babbyngle  clerk  averr- 
ing that  the  prisoner  threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs,  who  commanded 
the  sheriffs  to  cause  John  Rud  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  him 
to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon 
them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would  answer,  would  mainpern  him  that 
he  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  petitioner, 
and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  Neugate  gaol  until  he  would 
willingly  so  do  ;  as  the  said  John  Denham  and  the  others,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  40J. 

Membrane  32d. 

Record  of  proceedings  in  chancery,  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition, 
taken  at  the  king's  command  by  William  de  Walleworth  mayor  of 
the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein,  that  James  Andreu  citizen 
of  London  at  his  death  held  two  messuages  and  three  shops  in 
'  Cordewanerstrete '  in  the  parishes  of  St.  Mary  le  Bow  and 
'  Aldremary church  '  London,  that  he  had  the  premises  for  life  by 
grant  and  demise  of  William  de  Weston  and  Margery  his  wife  sometime 
the  wife  of  Robert  de  Upton,  for  a  yearly  rent  of  10?.  16s.  8d.  payable 
to  the  said  William  de  Weston  and  Margery  during  her  life  and  after 
her  death  to  her  heirs,  with  reversion  after  the  death  of  the  said  James 
to  the  said  William  and  Margery  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Margery, 
that  after  the  death  of  William  [her  husband]  the  said  Margery  granted 
to  the  king,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  her  estate  in  the  rent  and  reversion 
aforesaid,  and  the  said  James  attorned  tenant  to  the  king,  that  the 
king  granted  the  same  to  William  de  Thorp  knight  and  William  Peke 
for  their  lives  with  remainder  to  the  prioress  and  sisters  of  the  house 


EDWARD  1 1  r.  231 


137").  Membrane  3'2d — cont. 

of  the  order  of  preachers  by  him  new  founded  at   Derteford  in 
of  their  maintenance,  and  the  said  James  attorned  tenant  to  the  said 

William  de  Thorp  and  William  de  Peke   both  now  d  I    that    by 

their  death  the  rent  and  reversion  aforesaid  fell  to  the  said  prioress 

and  sisters,  that  they  after  by  charter  gave  the  Bame  to  the  king  and 
his  heirs,  and  that  the  said  .James  attorned  tenant  to  the  king  in 
presence  of  Michael  Skillyng,  Nicholas  Beryng  and  other  the  kin 
attorneys  by  virtue  of  the  king's  commission  to  them  made  ;  whereupon 
the  king  willing  to  save  him  harmless  in  that  behalf  by  writ  ordered 
the  sheriffs  of  London  to  give  notice  to  the  tenants  of  the  prem 
to  be  in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  [then]  uext  in  order 
to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  said  messuages  and  shops  ought  not  to 
be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  and  remain  with  him  and  his  heirs,  the 
said  tenants  answering  to  the  king  for  the  issues  thereof  taken  since 
the  death  of  the  said  James,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the 
court  should  determine,  and  the  sheriffs  returned  that  by  William 
Vyne  and  William  Houghton  they  gave  notice  accordingly  to  John 
Vine  '  draper  '  citizen  of  London  tenant  of  the  premises  ;  at  which 
day  came  the  said  John  in  person,  and  a  day  was  given  as  well  to 
Michael  Skillyng  suing  for  the  king  as  to  the  said  John  Vyne  until 
the  quinzaine  of  Easter,  at  which  da}7  came  the  said  John  in  person, 
and  acknowledged  that  the  king  has  right  to  have  the  said  houses 
and  shops  to  him  and  his  heirs,  as  by  the  presentment  aforesaid  is 
supposed,  and  surrendered  the  same  to  the  king,  releasing  and 
renouncing  whatsoever  he  the  said  John  had  therein,  and  delivering 
up  a  writing  indented  by  the  said  prioress  and  convent  made  as  he 
averred  ;  wherefore  it  was  adjudged  that  the  king  should  have  execution 
thereupon. 

June  8.  Richard  de  Clareburgh  parson  of  Ibstoke  in  the  diocese  of  Lincoln 

Westminster,  to  Walter  Power  clerk  and  Richard  Gates  parson  of  Halghstowe  in 

the  diocese  of  Rochester.     Recognisance  for  14/.  13*.  4'/.  payable  by 

instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 

chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Lincolnshire. 

Writing  of  Walter  Power  clerk,  giving  to  William  Power  his  nephew 
and  Sir  Richard  Gates  parson  of  Halghstowe  in  the  diocese  of 
Rochester  all  his  goods  and  chattels  whatsoever.  Dated  London, 
8  June  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  June. 

May  4.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Willesden, 

Westminster.  Benedict  Cornewaille,  Simon  Derlyng,  William  de  Kadeelif.  John 
Burgeys,  Henry  Pomfreyt,  Walter  Lenot  and  John  Saunderson  of 
the  city  of  London  to  set  free  Nicholas  de  Wystowe  and  Thomas  Kele 
from  Xeugate  gaol  where  they  are  detained  on  suspicion  for  t  he  plunder 
and  robbery  of  tarits  of  merchants  of  Cateloigne  lately  committed 
sea  by  the  king's  lieges  ;  as  the  -  kid  Riohard  and  the  others,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pun  of  [001.  t<>  have 
the  prisoner! '  bodies  before  the  council  or  elsewhere  as  shall  be  appointed 
them  ready  to  stand  to  right  touching  the  premise 

Charter  of  Tl b    de  Eyden,  giving  with  warranty  bo  Sir  William 

de    Asshe borne   chaplain    and   John    Miotlee,    their   beilfl   ID  g&S, 


232  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137r).  Membrane  Z2d — cont. 

all  his  lands  in  Tyteburst  within  the  parish  of  Aldenham.     Witnesses  : 
Walter   Forester,   Thomas   Edmund,    William   Sharpe,    Walter   Rolf. 
Dated  the  town  of  St.  Albans,  6  June  49  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  June. 

Charter  indented  of  William  de  Assheborne  chaplain  and  John 
Nhotlee,  granting  all  their  lands  in  Tyteburst  in  the  parish  of  Aldenham, 
which  they  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas  de  Eydene,  to  the 
said  Thomas  and  Joan  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  Thomas. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  Edmund,  John  Dernewelle,  Walter  Rolf,  Thomas 
atte  Penne,  William  Sharpe.  Dated  the  town  of  St.  Albans,  Thursday 
after  St.  Barnabas  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  June. 

June  18.  To  John  de  Cavendissh,  William  de  Wichyngham,  John  Brewes, 
Westminster.  John  de  Reymes,  Edmund  Gourne37e  and  William  Clere.  Order  not  to 
proceed  until  further  order  of  the  king  and  council  to  further  execute 
divers  letters  patent  of  the  king;  to  wit  certain  at  the  suit  of  Hugh  Burnell 
knight  and  WTilliam  Kerdeston  knight,  and  others  at  the  suit  of  William 
Mugge  warden  of  the  college  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  Wyndesore, 
appointing  them,  five,  four,  three  and  two  of  them  of  whom  John  de 
Cavendissh  or  William  de  Wichyngham  should  be  one,  justices  [to  hear 
and  determine]  divers  alleged  trespasses  committed  by  Henry  Rose 
and  others  at  Estriston  co.  Norffolk,  to  wit  some  against  the  said 
Hugh  and  William  Kerdeston,  and  others  against  the  said  warden  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  of  a  surety  that,  if  they  should  proceed  to 
execute  the  same,  it  might  manifestly  tend  to  the  disherison  of  the 
heir  of  John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief,  being 
within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  which  he  would  not  nor  ought 
to  endure,  and  the  said  warden  has  submitted  himself  in  regard  to 
his  plaint  to  the  debate  and  ordinance  of  the  council.  By  K. 

June  21.         Roger  Ferrour  one  of  the  king's  yeomen  is  sent  to  the  prior  and 

Westminster,  convent  of  Bodmyn  in  Cornwall,  to  have  such  maintenance  as  John 

Maykyn  one  of  the  king's  seamen  deceased  had  of  that  house  at  the 

king's  command.  By  p.s.  [30558.] 

June  27.         John  Brounesbury  citizen  of  London  to  William  Wheler  of  Enefeld. 
Westminster.  Recognisance  for  200£.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  3 Id. 

Memorandum  that  on  24  May  this  year  the  chancellor  ordered  the 
mayor  of  Oxford  under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  keep  himself  and  his 
fellows  burgesses  of  that  town  from  doing  ill  to  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  Oseneye  or  any  of  that  house  or  household,  and  ordered  the  said 
abbot  likewise  under  the  same  pain,  for  himself  and  his  fellows,  so 
that  they  should  deal  and  sue  according  to  the  law  of  the  land,  if  they 
think  fit. 

Writing  of  John  Wake,  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  Wake  knight,  being 
a    quitclaim   to   William    de   Thorp   knight,   John   Knyvet   knight, 


49    EDWARD    III.  2A3 


1375-  Membrane  31d — cont. 

Robert  de  Roos  knight,  Riohard  de  IV.  ton  clerk,  Jamefl  de  R  ha 

de  Tylneye  and  John  de  Bretton,  their  Inns  and  assigns,  «>f  the  manor 
of  Stoke  sometime  of  the  said  Bugh  his  father.     Dated  Westminster, 

Friday  the  morrow  of  the  Ascension  4'.)  Edward  111. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  June. 

May  22.  To  Roger  de  Fulthorp  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  preserve 

Westminster,  the  peace  in  Yorkshire.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  de  Malton 
chaplain,  to  Bet  him  free  by  mainprise  of  William  de  Baynton,  John 
Mannyng  and  Hugh  del  Boure  of  Baynton  of  Yorkshire  and  Wilham 
Kilpyn  of  London  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  by  order  of  the  jusl 
he  is  committed  to  York  prison  at  the  suit  of  Richard  de  Wetewang, 
averring  that  the  petitioner  threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs  ;  and 
the  said  William  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  undi 
pain  of  201.  that  he  shall  by  himself  or  by  others  do  or  procure  no  bodily 
hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Richard,  and  shall  be  of  good  behaviour 
toward  the  king  and  people. 

Writing  of  William  Brett,  son  of  Walter  Brett  of  Wyntryngham, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Neol  - 
and  to  their  successors  of  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  of 
free  men  and  neifs  in  Wyntryngham  sometime  held  by  his  said  father 
and  lately  by  Thomas  Soost'  of  Abboltesle  by  his  said  father's  grant. 
Dated  London,  4  June  4!)  Edward  ill. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  June. 

June  4.  Walter  de  Romeseye  knight  to  John  Bays.     Recognisance  for  20 

Westminster,  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  land  and  chattels 
in  Somerset. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Richard  Lescrope  of  the  one  part  and 
John  Cheyne  and  Margaret  his  wife  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  a 
grant  to  the  said  John  and  Margaret  during  her  life  of  a  yearly  rent  of 
20/.  to  be  taken  at  Martinmas  and  Whitsuntide  by  even  portions  of 
the  manor  of  Eperston,  and  further  that  after  the  first  24  years  from 
this  date,  in  case  Sir  Robert  de  Swilyngton  so  long  live,  the  said  John 
and  Margaret  and  their  assigns  shall  during  the  said  Margaret's  life 
take  further  10  marks  yearly  of  the  said  manor  over  and  above  tin- 
aforesaid  rent,  and  if  the  said  Robert  shall  die  within  that  term  the  said 
John  and  Margaret  and  their  assigns  shall  after  his  death  take  of  the 
said  manor  the  10  marks  yearly  aforesaid  during  the  said  Margan 
life  over  and  above  the  said  rent,  provided  always  that  whether  t  In- 
said  Robert  overlive  the  term  of  21  years  or  die  within  the  same  they 
shall  have  but  10  marks  in  addition,  to  wit  40  marks  in  all,  with  powei 
to  distrain  for  arrears,  such  rent  oeasing  altogether  after  the  .said 
Margaret's  death.  Dated  20  days  aftei  Mu-haelnu  L9  Edward  111. 
French . 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment ,  •  >  June  this  \ 

June  6.         To  S.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.     Order  t"  grant  to  John  de  Kim 

Westminster,  the  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension  a-  -hall  befit  the  givei  and 
should  bind  the  receiver  to  him,  making  the  said  John  letters  |>at. -lit 
thereupon  under  his  seal,  and  writing  again  uithout  dela)  what  ho  will 


234  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  31d — cont. 

do  ;  as  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the  archbishop  is  bound  in  such 
a  pension  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until 
provision  be  made  him  by  the  archbishop  of  a  competent  benefice,  and 
the  king  has  nominated  the  said  John,  whose  advancement  he  has  at 
heart.  By  p.s.  [30549.] 

Writing  of  Katherine  de  Brewese,  cousin  and  heir  of  John  de  Norwico 
knight  the  younger,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  John  de  Playce  (Plays) 
Sir  Robert  Howard,  Sir  Roger  de  Boys  knights,  John  de  Boys,  John 
de  Wolterton  parson  of  Harplee,  Adam  de  Cokefeld  parson  of  Salle, 
Ellis  de  Byntre  parson  of  Dalham,  Hervey  de  Welham  parson  of 
Stoketon  and  Reynold  de  Eccles  of  the  castle  of  Metyngham,  the 
manors  of  Ikketlishale,  Shipmedwe,  Mellis,  Bromfeld,  Wanhaston 
and  Reddisham,  four  carucates  of  land  and  6  acres  of  meadow  in 
Metyngham,  Shipmedwe,  Ikketlishale,  Barsham,  Beccles  and 
Wanhaston,  and  of  all  lands  etc.  in  Suffolk  which  they  had  by  gift 
and  feoffment  of  the  said  John  de  Norwyco  ;  also  of  the  manor  of 
Dalynghoo,  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Dalyngho,  and  a  fifth 
part  of  the  advowson  of  Alderton  church  ;  also  of  the  manors  of  Lyng, 
Little  Snoryng,  Haddescou,  Howe  and  Blacworth  with  the  knights' 
fees  and  advowsons  of  churches  and  of  Ravenyngham  chantry,  and  of 
all  lands  in  Estwrotham,  Westwrotham  and  Elyngton  and  all  other 
lands  in  Norffolk  which  they  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said 
John  de  Norwyco,  except  such  lands  and  the  advowson  of  such  churches 
as  are  held  in  chief.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Brewes,  Sir  William 
de  Herdeston  knights,  Robert  de  Aschefeld,  William  Berard,  Thomas 
atte  Oke,  Stephen  de  Langham,  Martin  de  Taverham.  Dated  Friday 
after  the  Exaltation  of  Holy  Cross  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  June  this  year. 

Indenture  witnessing  a  gift  made  by  John  de  Rokewode,  Adam 
Cooke  and  William  Askeby  to  Edward  Boteler  clerk,  and  to  his  assigns 
during  his  life,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  8  marks  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and 
Easter  by  even  portions  of  their  manor  in  Messyng  co.  Essex  called 
Hardeburghalle,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  in  name  of 
seisin  they  have  paid  him  Qd.  in  part  payment  of  the  said  rent  for 
Michaelmas  term  next.  Dated  Messyng  aforesaid,  Tuesday  after 
Midsummer  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  June. 

Membrane  30d. 

Indenture  tripartite,  witnessing  a  grant  made  by  William  de  Bury 
citizen  of  London,  Henry  de  Whitewelle  and  John  de  Middelton  to 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Whitewelle  of  the  manor  of  Okhurst 
and  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  St.  Albans,  Parksokene 
and  Aldenham  which  they  had  of  her  feoffment  under  particular 
conditions,  namely  to  enfeoff  her  again  for  her  life,  and  that  after  her 
death  the  will  of  John  her  son  (then  deceased)  should  be  fulfilled, 
according  to  what  might  be  found  by  his  testament  or  by  any  true 
evidence  under  his  seal  between  the  date  of  the  said  feoffment  and 
Easter  then  next  and  now  last  past,  whereof  nought  is  found  or  shewn 
to  the  said  feoffees,  remainder  if  nought  should  be  so  found  as 
hereinafter  declared,  to  have  and  to  hold  the  premises  to  the  said  Joan 


49    KhWARD  III. 


1375.  Membrane  30d — cont. 

for  life  so  that  she  be  not  troubled  by  reason  oi  any  waste,  with 
remainder  after  her  death  to  Thomas  de  Eydene  and  '.Joan  his  wife 
and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  remainder  for  lack  oi  Buch  an  heir 

to  the  right  heirs  of  the  3aid  .John  son  of  Joan,  provided  always  that 
the  said  feoffees  nor  their  heirs  be  not  bound  to  warranty  by  reason 
of   this   feoffment.     Witnesses:     Edmund    Pecok    John  Bafdewyi 
Adam  Raulyn,  John  Swanbourne,  William  Nunny.     Dated  the  town 
of  St.  Albans,  the  feast  of  St.  Barnabas  V.)  Edward  111. 
[No  acknowledgment  recorded.] 

June  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Sussex.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  atte 
Westminster.  Halle  of  Sussex,  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Campe  and  John  Sparowe 
of  Surrey  to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that 
John  Wilshani  is  impleading  him  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
to  render  4/.  alleged  to  be  due  to  the  plaintiff,  and  that  by  w  rit  >/> 
judicio  order  is  given  to  the  sheriff  to  take  his  bod\  wherever  found 
in  the  sheriff's  bailiwick  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at 
Westminster  at  a  day  in  the  writ  contained,  although  he  is  ready 
to  answer  the  plaintiff  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
Robert  and  John  Sparowe  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a 
pain  of  1005.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  at  the  aforesaid 
day. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of  Sir  William  de  la  More  kninhi 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Aubrey  of  London.  William 
Newerk  chaplain  and  Richard  Toky,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a 
yearly  rent  of  20  marks  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of  Morehalle  co. 
Essex  and  other  lands  in  that  county  of  him  held  by  John  de  Mounteney 
and  Cicely  his  wife  for  life  of  the  said  Cicely,  of  the  said  manor  and 
lands,  and  of  the  reversion  thereof  after  her  death  which  rent  and 
reversion  he  heretofore  granted  by  charter  to  the  said  John  Aubrey, 
William  Newerk  and  Richard,  certain  conditions  and  covenants 
touching  that  grant  being  afterwards  made  by  indentures  between  the 
parties;  and  a  release  to  the  said  grantees  of  all  advantages,  right  and 
claim  which  he  the  said  Nicholas  or  his  heirs  have  or  might  have  by  reason 
of  the  conditions  or  covenants  aforesaid  or  by  reason  of  the  enrolment 
thereof.  Witnesses  :  Robert  Hatfeld,  William  le  Venour,  Thorn  a- 
Hanampstede,  William  Culham,  Adam  Louekvn.  Dated  London, 
12  June  48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  June  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  John  Hauke  of  Stratford  co.  Middlesex, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Tudenham  citizen 
and  mercer  of  London  and  Christina  his  wile  and  to  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  William  of  all  the  lands,  meadoWB,  feeding!  and 
pastures  in  Stebenhithe  which  they  the  said  William  and  Christina 
hold  for  a  term  of  years  by  demise  of  Richard  Smelt  and  John  de 
Repham  citizens  of  London,  the  premises  having  been  extended  and 
delivered  to  the  said  Richard  and  John  de  Repham  by  due  piocees 
according  to  the  form  of  a  statute  merchant  touching  a  certain  sum 
of  money  by  him  the  said  John  BOO  of  John  of  his  own  Eiee  will  made 

to    the    said    Richard    and    John    <\r    Repham    and   acknowledged 

before  Adam  Fraunceis  late  mayor  <>f  London  and  Andrew  Aulu.v 
clerk  deputed  to  receive  teoOgnisanOM  of  debt  at  London.     \\  itn 


236  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  30d — cont. 

Adam  Fraunceis,  Nicholas  atte  Wyke,  Nicholas  de  Sordiche,  Richard 
de  Hadle,  Robert  Spire.  Dated  Stebenhithe,  Sunday  after  the 
Assumption  30  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  John  Hauke  of  Stratford  co.  Middlesex,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Tudenham  citizen  and  mercer 
of  London  and  Christina  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
William  of  all  the  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc.  in  Steben- 
hithe sometime  his  and  now  held  for  a  term  of  years  by  the  said 
William  and  Christina  by  a  statute  merchant.  Witnesses  :  Adam 
Fraunceis,  Nicholas  atte  Wike,  Nicholas  de  Shordiche,  Richard  de 
Hadle,  Nicholas  Forester,  Hugh  Lambyn,  Robert  Spire.  Dated 
Stebenhithe,  Wednesday  the  feast  of  St.  Bartholomew  30  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  27  June 
this  jTear. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  William  fitz  Wautier,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  William  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Aulton  Berners  co.  Wiltesir,  now  held 
by  the  said  bishop  by  fine  between  him  and  Walter  de  Frompton  and 
Margaret  his  wife.  Witnesses  :  Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino  knight, 
Henry  Stourmy,  Walter  Haywode,  William  Worfton,  Thomas  Dru, 
Michael  Skyllyng,  Walter  de  Frompton,  William  Hoghton.  Dated 
Suthwerk,  Monday  the  morrow  of  Trinity,  18  June  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  June. 

Writing  of  John  Kengrove  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  William  bishop  of  Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  Aulton  Berners  co.  Wiltesir,  now  held  by  the  said 
bishop  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  between  him  and  Walter 
de  Frompton  and  Margaret  his  wife.  Witnesses  and  date  (as  the 
last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  June. 

June  30.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Matthew  de 
Westminster.  Newenham,  Nicholas  de  Orell,  Roger  de  Wareton  and  William 
Prymrose  of  Lancashire  to  stay  the  further  taking  of  the  bodies  of 
Henry  de  Sale,  John  Hobkyn  chaplain  and  Richard  Robertson,  although 
lately  upon  the  petition  of  Alice  de  Sale,  averring  that  they  and  others 
threatened  her  in  life  and  limbs,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause 
the  said  Henry,  John,  Richard  and  others  to  come  before  them,  and  to 
compel  them  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs 
laid  upon  them,  would  mainpern  the  defendants  that  they  should  not 
do  or  procure  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Alice  ;  as  the  said  Matthew 
and  the  others  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  20Z. 

Membrane  29d. 

Charter  indented,  witnessing  a  gift  made  by  Joan  who  was  wife 
of  John  de  Whitewelle  with  warranty  to  William  de  Bury  citizen  of 
London,  Henry  de  Whitewelle  and  John  de  Middelton,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Okhurst  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services 
which  she  had  in  the  town  of  St.  Albans,  Parksokene  and  Aldenham, 
under  these  conditions  :  that  before  Easter  next  they  the  said  William, 


19  EDWARD  III. 


1375.  Membrane  29d—cont. 

Henry  and  John  de  Middelton  shall  again  enfeoff  hex  of  the  premi 

for  life,  and  that  before  that   term,  if  by  any   testament  of  John  de 

Whitewelle  her  son  or  by  any  true  evidence  under  his  seal  it  shall 
be  found  that  his  will  was  that  his  heirs  should  inherit  the  -a  me.  or 
that  the  premises  should  be  sold  and  distribution  thereof  made  for 
his  soul  or  otherwise,  they  shall  perform  the  said  will  when  they  shall 
have  notice  thereof,  and  if  before  Easter  next  nothing  be  found 
concerning  his  will  they  shall  grant  the  reversion  of  the  premises  after 
her  death  to  Thomas  Eydene  and  Joan  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of 
their  bodies  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  right  heirs 
of  the  said  John  son  of  Joan.  Witnesses  :  Edmund  Peook  John 
Baldewyne,  Adam  Raulyne,  John  Swanbourne,  William  Nanny. 
Dated  the  town  of  St.  Albans,  12  October  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Joan  who  was  wife 
of  John  at  St.  Albans  on  the  feast  of  the  Commemoration  of  St.  Paid 
this  year  before  the  abbot  of  St.  Albans,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ 
of  dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

July  3.  Brother  John  de  Dodeford  prior  of  St.  Frideswide  Oxford  to  Michael 

Westminster,  de  Ravendale  clerk.  Recognisance  for  401.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
Oxfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  John  Baryngton  of  Hatfeld  Roiz,  Geffray  de  Eunden  and 
William  Dannebury,  granting  to  Vvo  de  Sandherst  and  Rlargery  his 
wife,  their  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever,  4/.  of  yearly  rent  t<>  be  taken 
at  Christmas  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions  of  44  acres  of  land, 
6  acres  of  meadow.  S  acres  of  pasture.  4  acres  of  wood  and  2*.  Id.  of 
rent  in  the  town  of  Writelle  formerly  purchased  by  John  Lepyndon, 
Michael  Aunger  and  John  Straunge  of  John  Lyghtfot  and  Margery 
his  wife  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court,  and  power  to  distrain  for 
arrears,  which  rent  the  said  purchasers  by  writing  granted  to  the 
-aid  John  Baryngton,  Geoffrev  and  William,  their  heirs  and  assigns. 
Dated   Writelle'.  .1  July  4!)  Edward  IN.     French. 

Memornnilnni  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  Baryngton, 
Geoffrey  and  William  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster,  5  July. 

July  5.  John    Berden   of    Essex   to    Hugh    rmworth   and   John    Eermare. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  2<i/..  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment    of  bis  lands 
and  chattels  in  Essex. 
Cancel!  id  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  ike  said  Hugh. 

M<  ufi-tindiim  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  1,000/.  made  1  July 
in  the  Pith  year  of  the  reign  by  John  Eerie  knight   John  Bays,  Roger 

de  Wodenorton  lector  of  the  second  portion  of  Rest  lay.  John   Babj  Ogle 

parson  of  Dele  and  William  de  Essex  and  Adam  Louekyn  citizens  of 
London,  appearing  in  person  before  the  council  at  Westminster,  for 
brother  John  de  Welle  8.T.P.  of  the  order  of  friars  minors  thai  he 
dMll  not  without  the  king's  special  licence  depart  to  foreign  parte, 
Q,  [  pro  ecute  or  i  ause  to  he  prosecuted  -r  Bend  to  prosecute  over 

aughl   which  max    tend  to  tin'  prejudice  ot  the  kin  -    ' 

his  crown. 


23S  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  29d — cont. 

July  5.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  keeper  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Michael  Skillyng  of  Wiltesir, 
William  Clopton  of  Somerset,  Thomas  Hampton  of  the  county  of 
Suthampton  and  William  Cary  of  Devon  to  set  free  William  Fifhide 
from  the  prison  of  the  Tower  ;  as  the  said  Michael  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  before  the  king  and  council,  have  mainperned 
,  for  the  good  behaviour  toward  the  king  and  people  of  the  prisoner, 
who  is  imprisoned  in  the  Tower  by  reason  of  certain  contempts  and 
trespasses  committed  against  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  his  fellows 
guardians  of  the  peace  in  Sussex  it  is  said.  By  C. 

Indenture  witnessing  a  gift  made  by  John  de  Gildesburgh,  Robert 
de  Muskham  clerk,  Edmund  Warner  and  John  le  Rous  to  John  son 
of  Clement  Spice  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body  of  a  yearly  rent  of  10 
marks  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  their 
manor  of  Spayneshalle  in  the  town  of  Wylynghale  Spayne,  with 
remainder  if  William  the  eldest  son  of  the  said  Clement  die  without 
issue  to  Edmund  brother  of  the  said  John  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body, 
remainder  to  Richard  his  brother  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and 
power  to  distrain  for  arrears  upon  these  conditions,  to  wit  that  the 
said  rent  shall  remain  in  suspense  and  unpaid  so  long  as  the  said  John 
and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  if  he  or  the  said  William  shall  die  without 
issue  the  said  Edmund  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  if  he  die  without 
issue  the  said  Richard  and  the  heirs  of  his  body  shall  hold  and  enjoy 
a  messuage,  160  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow,  30  acres  of  pasture, 
6  acres  of  wood  and  alder  wood  and  18s.  of  rent  in  Colcestre,  Lexeden, 
Stanewey,  Bergholt  and  Horkesleye  without  being  put  out  of  the 
same  or  parcel  thereof  by  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  Alice  wife  of  the 
said  Clement.     Dated  3  May  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John  de  Gildesburgh, 
Robert  and  John  Rous,  24  May. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk  and  John  de  Gildesburgh, 
being  a  letter  of  attorney  appointing  John  parson  of  Wilynghale, 
Thomas  Goules  chaplain  and  John  Redale  to  deliver  according  to  the 
form  of  a  certain  charter  to  Clement  Spice  and  Alice  his  wife  seisin 
of  the  manor  of  Spayneshalle  whereof  William  Spice  lately  enfeoffed 
them  the  said  Robert  and  John  de  Gildesburgh,  who  demised  the 
same  to  the  said  Clement  for  a  term  of  years  not  yet  past,  and  he  has 
surrendered  his  estate  therein.  Dated  the  day  of  St.  John  ante  portam 
Latinam  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Robert,  12  July. 

Membrane  28d. 

Indenture  of  accord  made  between  Sir  Philip  Darcy  lord  of  Knayth 
and  Edmund  Laurence,  between  whom  debate  has  arisen  touching 
the  manors  of  Baligary,  Louthe.  Castelryng,  Asshe  and  Donemowe 
in  Ireland  which  the  said  Edmund  had  for  life  by  lease  of  Sir  John 
Darcy  father  of  the  said  Philip,  covenanting  that  the  said  Edmund 
shall  lease  to  Thomas  de  Stanlay  parson  of  Treton,  John  Franceois 
and  Robert  de  Mistreton  during  his  life  at  a  yearly  rent  of  23  marks 
whatsoever  he  had  by  the  said  lease  in  the  manor  of  Donemowe  and 
appurtenances,  to  wit  one  moiety  payable  at  Michaelmas  and  the 
other  at  Easter,  with  power  to  distrain  and  to  enter  again  in  his  first 


49  EDWARD  III.  23!) 


1375.  Membrane  2Sd—cont. 

estate  if  the  rent  be  three  quarters  in  arrear  ;  that  by  another  deed 
the  said  Edmund  shall  lease  the  manor  of  Asshe  to  the  same  Lessi 
for  a  term  of  60  years  to  begin  the  morrow  of  Easter  in  the  49th  J 
of  the  reign  at  a  yearly  rent  of  7  marks  payable  a-  above,  with  power 
to  distrain  and  proviso  that  if  the  said  Edmund  die  the  -aid  term 
and  rent  shall  cease  ;  that  the  said  Edmund  shall  Lease  the  other  -aid 
manors,  to  wit  Baligary.  Louthe  and  Castelryng,  to  Sir  Philip  for 
60  years  at  a  yearly  rent  of  one  rose  at  Midsummer  ;  that  the  said 
Edmund  shall  be  ready  whenever  he  shall  be  warned  to  lease  his  estate 
or  surrender  to  Sir  Philip  or  his  heirs  the  manors  last  mentioned  at  the 
cost  of  Sir  Philip  ;  that  the  said  Edmund  shall  make  restitution  of 
any  rents  received  or  profits  taken  of  the  said  manors  after  this  date, 
if  falling  due  after  Easter  in  the  49th  year  of  the  reign,  saving  to  him 
the  rents  due  before  that  feast,  to  be  levied  at  his  will  by  virtue  of 
the  lease  made  by  Sir  John  Darcy  ;  that  either  party  shall  by  writing 
dated  the  Monday  before  Easter  last  make  a  general  release  to  the 
other  of  all  personal  actions  to  this  date  ;  that  the  said  Edmund, 
his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  discharge  Sir  Philip  and  the  said  Lesa 
their  heirs,  executors  and  assigns,  of  any  Levy  which  shall  be  made 
upon  them  for  any  recognisance,  statute  merchant,  rent  charge  or 
other  charge  upon  the  said  manors  or  parcel  thereof  made  by  him 
since  the  lease  made  by  Sir  John  Darcy,  or  of  any  other  debt  from 
him  due  to  the  king,  or  shall  recompense  them  lor  what  they  shall 
be  so  charged  withal  ;  and  that  the  said  Edmund,  his  heirs,  executors 
and  assigns,  shall  in  time  to  come  be  quit  of  4  marks  of  rent  heretofore 
reserved  to  Sir  [John]  Darcy  father  of  Sir  Philip  when  he  made  the 
aforesaid  lease,  saving  always  to  Sir  Philip  such  arrears  thereof 
the  law  shall  adjudge  to  him  after  proof  of  his  age.  Dated  the  morrow 
of  Easter  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,   13  July. 

Writing  of  William  de  Botreaux  knight,  giving  to  Edmund  de 
llvndon  for  life  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  said  William's  manor  of  Biollond 
co.  Devon,  and  bond  for  payment  of  the  same,  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears;  and  he  has  delivered  to  the  said  Edmund  Id.  in  name  of 
seisin.     Dated  London,  20  April  4!)  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  L8  -Inly. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks  to  be  taken  of 
the  manor  of  Mbllond  in  Devenshire  granted  by  Sir  William  de  Botreaux 
to  Edmund  de  llvndone.  upon  condition  that  the  said  Edmund  and 
hi  hall  peaceably  hold  the  manor  of  Little  Berkhampstede 

with  all  the  lands,  rents,  services,  reversions,  franchises,  warrens  and 
other  profits  which  Sir  William  had  in  the  towns  of  Berkhampstede 
aforesaid,  Batfeld,  Esyngdene  and  Bayford  co.  Hertford  from  the 
d   ■  presents  during  the  said  Edmund's  life,  and  his  executors 

an.  ns  one  year  longer,  nol  being  put  out  thereof  nor  of  anj  parcel 

tp.  .,i-  charged  toward  the  king  or  any  other  person  ty  n  of 

mente  arrears,  annuitj  recognisance  Btatute 
merchant  or  other  hue  title  or  charge  whatsoevei  made  or  due  by 
Sir  William,  his  ancestors  or  other  lords  there  tx  fore  this  date,  <>r  that 
if  red  and  charged  l»\   pn  i  la*  Sir  William,  his  heii 

J i.ill  within  one  month  after  warning  given  tO  tin  in  or  any 


240  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  2Sd — cord. 

of  them  found  in  person,  or  by  notice  in  the  parish  church  of 
Northcadebury  on  a  Sunday,  make  them  recompense  of  as  much 
as  they  shall  lose  ;  and  that  if  Dame  Elizabeth  wife  of  Sir  William 
shall  overlive  him,  she  shall  suffer  the  said  Edmund  and  his  assigns 
during  his  life,  and  his  executors  one  year  longer,  peaceably  to  have, 
hold  and  enjoy  the  premises  without  impleading  them  or  thrusting 
them  out  by  any  recovery  of  dower,  so  that  they  may  hold  the  premises 
for  the  said  term  quit  of  action  for  dower,  without  aught  being  taken, 
and  without  vouching  the  said  William's  heir  to  warranty  so  as  to 
have  securitv  for  recovering  the  value  thereof.  Dated  London, 
22  April  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  18  July. 

Indenture  reciting  a  charter  indented  whereby  Katherine  Breouse, 
having  obtained  the  king's  licence,  has  enfeoffed  John  Daventre  parson 
of  Broom,  Edmund  de  Lakyngheth,  Stephen  Langham,  Thomas 
Chervyle  chaplain,  John  Pykenham,  John  Bretton,  John  Wanton, 
John  Hunte  and  John  Heylesdon  and  their  heirs  of  her  manor  and 
advowson  of  Sculthorp  at  a  yearly  rent  of  40L,  and  witnessing  the 
defeasance  of  that  rent  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  Pykenham 
or  some  other  in  his  name  shall  pay  to  the  said  Katherine  or  her 
executors  at  London  100  marks  at  Michaelmas  next,  100  marks  at  Easter 
following,  100  marks  at  Michaelmas  following,  100  marks  at  Easter 
following,  100  marks  at  Michaelmas  following,  and  100  marks  at 
Easter  following  or  within  the  quinzaine  of  every  such  term,  the  said 
feoffees  being  thereof  discharged  and  the  said  manor  and  advowson 
likewise,  nor  may  the  said  Katherine  or  her  heirs  enter  the  premises 
for  lack  of  payment  thereof  if  the  said  600  marks  shall  be  truly  paid 
by  John  de  Pykenham  as  aforesaid.  Dated  London,  Saturday  after 
St.  Arnulphus  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Katherine,  20  July. 

Membrane  Tld. 

Charter  of  Edward  le  Butiller  parson  of  Weston  Turvyle,  giving 
with  warranty  to  John  de  Rookwode,  Adam  Cooke  and  William  de 
Askeby,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  called  Hardebourghalle  in 
Messyng  co.  Essex.  Witnesses  :  Robert  de  Teye,  John  de  Sutton, 
Henry  de  Coggeshalle,  Robert  Marny  knights,  Thomas  Baynard, 
James  atte  Lee.     Dated  Messyng,  2  June  49  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Edward  le  Boteler  parson  of  Weston  Turvyle,  being  a 
letter  of  attorney  appointing  Humphrey  de  Prestede  of  Essex  to 
deliver  to  John  de  Rookwode,  Adam  Cooke  and  William  de  Askeby 
seisin  of  the  manor  called  Herdebourghalle  in  Messyng.  Dated  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  27  June. 

Writing  of  Ralph  Stele  clerk,  being  a  receipt  and  acquittance  to 
Sir  John  de  Scarle  and  John  de  Waltham  clerk,  executors  of  Sir  Nicholas 
de  Spaigne,  for  one  great  breviary  and  40  marks  in  full  of  money 
and  goods  to  the  said  Ralph  bequeathed  as  well  by  will  of  the  said 
Nicholas  as  of  Sir  William  Stele.  Dated  London,  28  (sic)  June 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  (sic)  June, 


49    EDWARD    III.  241 


1375.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

June  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norharnpton.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Roger  de 
Westminster.  Welford  clerk,  Henry  West  and  John  de  Berughby  of  Xorhamptonshiro 
and  Simon  Hostiller  of  London  to  stay  altogether  the  further  execution 
of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to  cause  John  Waundell 
to  come  before  him  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  nndei 
a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriff  would 
answer,  would  mainpem  the  said  John  Waundell  that  he  should  do  or 
procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  John  Saundres  and  Gilbert  Tauvemer, 
and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  take  him  and  commit  him  to  the  ilea 
gaol  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  as  that  writ  issued  at  the  suit 
of  the  said  John  Saundres  and  Gilbert,  averring  that  John  Waundell 
grievously  threatened  them  in  their  bodies  ;  and  the  said  Roger  and 
the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancer}'',  have  mainperned  for  him 
as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  201. 

June  20.         William  Cardoun  of  Tylbrooke  to  Simon  Rogrom.     Recognisanco 
Westminster,  for  507.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Bedfordshire. 

Charter  of  John  Colyngborne  clerk,  granting  to  Master  John 
Blaunchard  archdeacon  of  Worcester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the 
grantor's  lands,  meadows,  woods,  pastures,  feedings,  commons,  the 
rents  and  services  and  the  reversions  of  all  his  free  and  villein  tenants 
in  Bereford  St.  Martin,  Hurdecote,  Cupton,  Dunynton,  Babstoke, 
Langeford  and  the  parish  of  Fovente,  which  the  grantor  lately  had 
in  the  said  towns,  parish  or  hamlets  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas 
Hungerford  knight,  as  fully  as  the  said  Thomas  formerly  held  the 
same.  Witnesses  :  Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino.  Thomas  West 
knight,  John  de  la  Mare  knight.  Nicholas  Bonham,  Henry  Gilberd, 
Oliver  Harnham,  Henry  Haversham.  Dated  Bereford  St.  Martin, 
20  May  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  July. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Hungerford  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Master  John  Blaunchard  archdeacon  of  Worcester,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  meadows,  woods,  feedings,  pastir 
commons,  rents  and  services  of  free  and  villein  tenants  and  reversions 
in  Bereford  St.  Martin,  Hurdecote,  Cumpton,  Dunynton,  Babstoke, 
Langford  and  the  pariah  of  Fovente  which  the  said  archdeacon  has 
by  grant  of  John  Colyngborne  clerk  in  the  towns,  parish  and  hamlets 
aforesaid.  Witnesses  (as  the  last).  Dated  Bereford  St.  Martin, 
10  June  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  July. 

Writing  of  John  Colyngborne  clerk,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
appointing  Thomas  Blaunchard  of  Coterigge  to  deliver  to  Master  John 
Blaunchard  archdeacon  of  Worcester  seisin  of  all  his  lands.  meadoWB, 
(roods,  pastures,  feedings,  commons,  the  rente,  services  and  reversions 

of  all  his  free  and  villein  tenant-  in    Bereford  St.  Martin,   llm 

Cumpton,  Dunynton,  Babstoke,  Langford  and  the  p.irish  of  Fovente 

according  to  a  charter  to   him    made.      Witnesses   (<U  above).      I> 
Bereford  St.  Martin,  22  )h\    10  Edward  Ml. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  .July. 

PS   lo 


242  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  21d — cont. 

Indenture  made  between  Edmund  Laurence  of  the  one  part  and 
Thomas  Stanley  parson  of  Treton,  John  Frauncois  and  Robert  de 
Mistreton  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lease  to  the  said  Thomas,  John 
and  Robert,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  during  the  said  Edmund's  life 
at  a  yearly  rent  of  23  marks,  to  wit  one  moiety  at  Michaelmas  and 
the  other  at  Easter,  of  all  the  lands  in  the  manor  of  Donmowe  in 
Ireland  which  he  had  by  lease  of  Sir  John  Darcy  lord  of  Knayth, 
power  being  reserved  to  the  said  Edmund  to  distrain  for  arrears  of 
the  said  rent,  and  to  enter  the  premises  again  in  his  first  estate  if  the 
same  shall  be  three  quarters  of  a  year  in  arrear.  Dated  the  morrow 
of  Easter  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Edmund,  Thomas 
and  John,  13  July. 

Memorandum  that  on  14  July  this  year  Thomas  Hoddesdon,  one 
of  the  attorneys  of  William  Trussell  producing  letters  patent,  appeared 
in  person  in  chancery  and  on  behalf  of  the  said  William  agreed  that 
Thomas  Milton,  imprisoned  in  the  Flete  prison  for  money  lately  received 
of  the  said  William  in  order  to  sail  with  him  on  the  king's  service 
over  sea,  should  be  set  free  ;  whereupon  order  was  given  to  the  warden 
of  the  said  prison  to  set  the  said  prisoner  free. 

July  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Worcester.  Order  by  mainprise  of  David  parson 
Westminster,  of  Broughton  Haket,  David  ap  Eynoun  chaplain  of  Worcestershire, 
William  de  Penbroke  and  John  Justice  of  London  to  stay  the  taking 
of  the  body  of  John  Tyler  of  Worcestre  'skynner,'  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  ;  as  lately 
by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said  John's 
body  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  that  day  to  answer 
Walter  de  Lee  of  Pershore  on  a  plea  of  debt  and  detenue  of  12Z.,  and 
the  defendant  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  and 
has  prayed  for  a  stay  of  execution  ;  and  the  said  David  and  the  others 
have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  20Z.  to  have  him  before 
the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

July  13.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  in  favour 
Westminster,  of  Roger  Taillour  of  Hicchun  by  mainprise  of  Roger  atte  More,  John 
Berton  of  Hertfordshire,  Thomas  Purser  and  Hugh  Pybaker  of  the 
city  of  London  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  take  him  if  found  etc.  to  answer  John  Brit  as  to  rendering 
him  chattels  to  the  value  of  100s. 

Membrane  2&d. 

Indenture  of  lease  for  12  years  with  warranty,  quit  of  all  other  charges, 
of  the  manor  of  Little  Berkhampstede  with  all  lands,  rents,  services, 
reversions,  franchises,  warrens  and  other  profits  of  the  lessor  in  the 
towns  of  Berkhampstede  aforesaid,  Hatfelde,  Esyngdene  and  Bayford 
co.  Hertford  sometime  of  Sir  John  de  Moeles,  granted  by  William 
de  Botreaux  knight  to  Edmund  de  Hyndon,  his  executors  and  assigns, 
at  a  yearly  rent  of  one  rose  at  Midsummer  for  all  services  and  demands, 
but  doing  the  rents  and  services  thereof  due  to  the  chief  lords  of  the  fee ; 
and  grant  and  sale  of  all  the  cattle,  corn,  hay,  vessels,  goods  and  chattels 
therein  to  deal  with  at  the  pleasure  of  the  lessee.  Dated  Berkhamp- 
stede, the  last  day  of  February  49  Edward  III.    French, 


40  EDWARD  III.  243 


1375.  Membrane  26i — cont. 

Indenture  of  William  de  Botreaux  knight,  reciting  the  foregoing  lease, 
and  granting  with  warranty  to  Edmund  de  Hyndon  and  his  assigns 
during  his  life,  and  to  his  executors  and  assigns  for  one  year  Ion 
the  manor  of  Little  Berkhamstede  with  all  the  lands,  ants.  Bervioee, 
reversions,  franchises,  warrens  and  other  profits  of  the  lessor  in  the 
towns  of  Berkhamstede  aforesaid,  Hatfeld,  Esyngdene  and  Bayford 
co.  Hertford  sometime  of  Sir  John  de  Moeles,  the  tenants  for  life 
having  attorned  tenants  to  the  said  Edmund,  to  hold  at  the  yearly 
rent  of  one  rose  at  Midsummer  doing  for  the  lessor  and  his  heirs  tin- 
services  thereof  due  to  the  chief  lord  of  the  fee.  Covenant  that  tho 
said  Edmund,  his  assigns  and  executors  during  the  aforesaid  term 
shall  have  great  timber  enough  for  '  housbote,'  '  cartbote,'  '  ploubote,' 
bridges  and  other  things  needful  without  waste,  but  shall  fall  no  great 
oaks  nor  ashes  growing  upon  the  premises  in  order  to  give  or  sell  the 
same  or  for  other  than  reasonable  cause,  but  shall  have  their  profit 
of  the  branches  of  oaks  and  ashes  as  heretofore  used  to  be  there  done. 
Dated  Berkhamstede,  20  April  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  indentures  by 
the  said  William,  11  July. 

Indenture  made  at  London,  Tuesday  after  the  Annunciation 
40  Edward  III,  between  William  Botreaux  knight  and  Walter  Clopton, 
being  a  lease  to  the  said  Walter  and  his  heirs  with  warranty  for  his  life 
of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  the  said  William  and  all  his 
liberties  in  Elyngham,  without  making  waste,  at  a  yearly  rent  of  one 
rose  at  Midsummer  for  all  demands  save  the  king's  service.  Witnesses 
Thomas  Chaundeler,  William  Taylour,  Richard  Sydenham,  John  Hulle, 
John  Bays. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  William,  11  July. 

Writing  of  Henry  Leyk  of  Kensyngton,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  John  Doget  called  Boterwyk  and  to  his  heirs  of  the 
17  acres  of  land  in  Knyghtebrigge  co.  Middlesex  which  the  said  John 
lately  had  of  his  gift  and  feoffment,  whereof  10  acres  lie  in  a  field 
called  '  Cranesfeld  '  and  7  acres  in  a  field  called  the  '  Southfeld.' 
Witnesses  :  John  Pycard,  John  Lorymer,  John  Orchard,  Walter  Page, 
John  Croucher.     Dated  Knj'ghtbrigge,  12  Juty  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  July. 

Indenture  of  lease  for  60  years  of  the  manors  of  Balygary,  l.oiithe 
and  Castelryng  in  Ireland,  made  by  Edmund  Laurence  to  Sir  Philip 
Darcy  lord  of  Knayth,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  rendering  yearly  one 
rose  at  Midsummer  for  all  services.  Dated  London,  the  nioiiow  of 
Easter  40  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  13  July. 

Writing  of  Edmund  Laurence,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  appoint 
Nicholas  de  la  Stable  and  William  de  Lughteburgh  to  deliver  to  Sir 
Philip  Darcy  lord  of  Knayth  seisin  of  the  manors  of  Balij         Louthe 
and  Castelryng  lor  a  term  of  80  years,  and  to  Thorn  ItanJay 

parson  of  Treton,  .John  Pranoeoys  and   Robert  de  Miatreton  sei 
of  the  manor  of  Asshe  for  the  same  term,  also  for  term  oi  the  said 
Edmund's  lit  p  of  all  that  be  bad  in  the  manor  ..f  Donemowe. 


244  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  2Qd — cont. 

by  lease  of  Sir  John  Darcy  father  of  the  said  Philip.     Dated  the  morrow 
of  Easter  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  July. 

July  14.  Reynold  de  Grey  of  Ruthyn  knight  to  William  de  Molyns  knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied;  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bedfordshire. 

Note  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  at  Harewolde  by  Gerard  de 
Braybroke,  by  virtue  of  a  writ  of  dedimus  potestalem  which  is  on  the 
files  for  this  }*ear. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  witnessing  a  gift  made  by  William  Coteller  one  of  the 
king's  janitors  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  Barde  tenant  in  chief, 
her  executors  and  assigns,  of  the  wardship  of  her  said  husband's 
lands  in  Bukinghamshire,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Durand  his  son  and  heir,  to  hold 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  also  the  marriage  of  the  said 
Durand,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  said  William  ought  to  have  that 
wardship  and  marriage,  the  king  having  lately  granted  him  the 
wardship  of  all  the  said  John's  lands  and  the  marriage  of  the  said 
Durand,  paying  to  the  said  William  10  marks  10s.  at  Christmas 
next ;  and  covenant  by  the  said  Joan  that,  in  default  of  payment, 
it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  William  to  enter  again  the  said  lands 
in  Bukinghamshire  and  marry  the  said  Durand  to  whom  he  will, 
this  gift  notwithstanding.     Dated  London,  3  July  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  23  July. 

Membrane  25d. 

Charter  of  John  de  Gildesburgh,  giving  with  warranty  to  Henry 
de  Coggeshale  knight,  Robert  de  Teye  knight,  Stephen  de  Navesby 
clerk,  Clement  Spice  and  Thomas  Yonge,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all 
the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Heyestre  late  of  Gilbert  de 
Stanford  knight,  and  granting  them  with  like  warranty  all  the  estate 
of  him  the  said  John  in  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns 
of  Heyestre,  Donmowe  and  Berneston  which  he  lately  purchased  of 
fMaud  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Charnels  knight  and  Elizabeth 
his  wifef.  Dated  Westminster,  Monday  after  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul 
49  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  John  de  Gildesburgh  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Henry  de  Coggeshale  knight,  Robert  de  Teye  knight,  Stephen  de 
Navesby  clerk  and  Clement  Spice,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor 
of  Wenynton  the  moiety  of  a  third  part  thereof  excepted,  a 
messuage,  250  acres  of  land,  30  acres  of  pasture  and  13s.  4d.  of  rent 
in  Alvythele  and  Reynham.      Dated  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters,  3  July. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Hynton,  son  of  William  de  Hynton  by 
Brakkele  and  cousin  and  heir  of  Ralph  de  Wedon  knight,  being  a  grant 
and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of 
Winchester,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Wedon  in  the  Vale 
by  Aylesbury  and  all  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  commons, 


4!)  EDWARD  III.  245 


.) 


1875.  Membrane  25d — cont. 

rents  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  suits  of  court,  views  of  frankpledge, 
wards,  marriages,  homages,  escheats,  releifs,  aid-,  fcallagi  nsions 

of  lands  and  rents  at  a  term  of  life  or  of  years,  villenages,  villeins  and 
all  that  goes  with  them,  mills,  ponds,  rivers,  dikes,  fisheries  and  ot 
profits,  commodities  etc.  to  the  same  belonging  in  the  towns  of 
Herdwyk,  Wedon,  Briddesthorne,  Kolesham  and  Wengrave  oo. 
Bukingham  sometime  of  the  said  Ralph.  Witnesses:  Sir  John 
Knyvet,  Sir  Peter  Brewes,  Sir  John  Aylesbury,  Sir  Roger  Potenham, 
Sir  Philip  la  Vache  knights,  John  Arderne,  William  Cruiser  knight, 
John  Kyngesfold,  William  Neudegate,  Peter  atte  Wode,  Robert 
Loxlee,  John  Wacche,  Hamelin  Medham.  Dated  Suthwerk,  l'O  June 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

Memorandum  that  in  the  46th  year  of  the  reign  Hugh  Fastolf  bought 
of  Michael  Mey  of  Lescluse  in  Flanders  a  ship  called  the  '  Seintemarye- 
cogge  '  with  all  her  gear  and  other  the  goods  therein  ;  and  after  on 
3  July  in  the  49th  year  the  said  Michael,  appearing  in  person  in  the 
chancery  at  Westminster,  acknowledged  that  the  said  Hugh  truly 
paid  him  for  the  same,  and  thereof  acquitted  the  said  Hugh,  craving 
that  this  should  be  enrolled  upon  the  rolls  of  chancery. 

July  11.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  de 

Westminster.  Boolde  knight,  Edmund  Laurence  and  Peter  de  Bolleroun  of  Lancashire 
to  stay  the  taking  of  the  bodies  of  William  de  Bredekirk,  William  de 
Aghton,  John  son  of  Lawrence  de  Thorneton  and  John  de  Etheleston 
the  younger,  bringing  this  writ  and  the  other  hereinafter  mentioned 
before  the  justices  at  Westminster  ;  as  they  made  a  recognisance 
to  Adam  de  Bikerstath  for  120/.  before  Nicholas  de  Meeles  then  mayor 
of  Preston  in  Amoundernesse  and  William  de  Dutton  clerk  there 
deputed  to  receive  recognisances  of  debts,  wherefore  by  writ  the 
king  ordered  the  sheriff  if  they  were  laymen  to  take  their  bodies  and 
keep  them  in  prison  in  safe  custody  until  they  should  content  the  said 
Adam,  giving  notice  to  the  said  justices  by  letters  under  seal  in  the 
octaves  of  Michaelmas  how  he  executed  that  writ  ;  and  now  the  said 
William  and  the  others  have  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  for  that 
a  plea  between  the  parties  is  pending  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
touching  the  conditions  contained  in  an  indenture  between  them, 
being  a  defeasance  of  the  said  recognisance,  which  tin- said  William  de 
Bredekirk  and  his  fellows  have  heretofore  truly  kept  and  are  ready 
to  keep;  and  the  said  Richard  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in 
chancery  under  a  pain  of  120/.  to  have  the  defendants'  bodies  Ik  fore 
the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

Indenture  made  between  Edmund  Laurence  of  the  cue  part  and 
Thomas  Stanley  parson  of  Treton,  John  Fraunoeis  and  Robert  de 
Mistreton  of  the  other  part,  being  a  lea-.'  for  80  years  of  the  manor 
of  Asshc,  rendering  yearlj  7  marks  to  the  said  Edmund  and  his  assigns, 
one  moiety  at  Michaelmas  the  other  at  I  ber,  payment  t«>  begin  at 
Michaelmas  next,  power  being  reserved  t"  distrain  for  arrears;  and 
if  the  lessor  die  within  that  term  this  lease  shall  determine.  Dated 
the  morrow  of  Easter   19  Edward   III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Edmund,  Thomas 
and  John,  14  July. 


210  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  24rf. 

Writing  of  Henry  Lavenham,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Stephen  do 
Hoghton  and  Florence  his  wife  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services,  meadows, 
feedings  and  pastures  in  Great  Bardefeld  and  Little  Bardefeld,  with 
neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  which  were  of  John  Gyneye. 
Witnesses  :  John  Botiller,  John  Fitz  Rauffe,  Richard  Wynterflode, 
John  Roo  of  Great  Berdefeld.  Dated  Jakesley,  Monday  after 
St.  Peter's  Chains  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  before  the  chancellor  in  his  lodging 
at  Suthw}rk  co.  Norhampton,  9  August. 

Aug.  9.  Stephen  de  Hoghton  to  Henry  de  Lavenham.     Recognisance  for 

Yardley.      45  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Cambridgeshire. 

Aug.  11.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  John  Colcestre.  Request  to  grant 
Drayton.  to  Richard  Gounfray  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension  of  that  house  as  shall 
befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  them,  making  him 
letters  patent  thereupon  under  the  chapter  seal,  and  writing  again 
by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this  request ;  as  the  abbot  by  reason 
of  his  new  creation  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks 
at  the  king's  nomination,  until  provision  of  a  benefice  shall  by  the 
abbot  be  made  him  ;  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Richard, 
whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30602.] 

Charter  of  John  de  Herlyngg,  giving  with  warranty  to  George  de 
Felbrigge,  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokham,  Master  Walter  Wyot  clerk,  Robert 
de  Swafham  parson  of  Westherlyngg  and  James  de  Heyham  parson 
of  Suthbirlyngham,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Corton  and 
all  other  his  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns  of  Corton,  Hopton, 
Gunton,  Lowystoft,  Blundeston,  Oelton,  Flyxton,  Lound,  Belton, 
Bradewelle,  Gorlyston,  Gapton  and  Westgernemuth  or  elsewhere 
within  the  hundred  of  Lodynglond,  with  liberties  of  folds  in  the  said 
towns,  a  windmill  in  Corton,  the  service  of  free  and  villein  tenants  in 
the  said  towns,  and  all  appurtenances  and  commodities  thereto 
•  belonging,  also  the  reversion  of  the  moiety  of  a  messuage  in  Corton. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Launey  knight,  Thomas  Rose,  John  atte  Welle 
of  Walton  the  younger,  Richard  Turald,  John  Botyld,  John  Clerk, 
WTilliam  Pycot.  Dated  Corton,  Monday  after  the  Translation  of 
St.  Thomas  49  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  John  de  Herlyngg,  giving  with  warranty  to  George  de 
Felbrigge,  Thomas  Caus  of  Hokham,  Master  Walter  Wyot  clerk, 
Robert  de  Swafham  parson  of  Westherlyng  and  James  de  Heyham 
parson  of  Suthbirlyngham,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manors  and 
advowsons  of  Estherlyngg  and  Quydenham  with  all  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  Estherlyng,  Quydenham,  Brythenham,  Bokynham  and 
Croxton  co.  Norffolk,  and  the  manor  of  Gnateshale  with  all  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  Gnateshale  and  Hopton  co.  Suffolk.  Witnesses  : 
Robert  de  Mortuo  Mari,  Robert  de  Howard  knights,  Robert  de  Welham, 
Thomas  Chauntecler,  Henry  de  Pakenham.  Dated  Estherlyngg, 
Friday  after  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul  49  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  John  de  Herlyngg,  giving  with  warranty  to  George  de 
Felbrigge,  Thomas  le  Caus  of  Hokham,  Master  Walter  Wyot  clerk, 


49  EDWARD  III.  247 


1375.  Membrane  24d — coni. 

Robert  de  Swafham  parson  of  Westherlyngg  and  James  de   Beyham 

parson    of    Suthbirlyngham,   their    heirs    and  assigns,  a  mi  in 

Lound,  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns  of  Lound,  Hopton, 
Somerleton,  Askebv  and  Blundeston  which  he  lately  poreha 
jointly  with  John  de  Wolterton  clerk  and  John  de  Theinetham,  and 
the  advowson  of  Lound  church.  Witnesses:  Robert  de  sfortuo  Man 
knight,  John  de  Hanney  knight,  Robert  de  Welham,  Thomas  Rt 
John  atte  Welle.  Dated  Lound  co.  Suffolk,  Saturday  after  tin- 
Translation  of  St.   Thomas  49  Edward  111. 

Charter  of  John  de  Herlyngg.  giving  with  warranty  to  I  de 

Fellebrigge,  Thomas  le  Caus  of  Hoklnun.  Blaster  Walter  Wyot,  Etobert 
de  Swotham  (sic)  parson  of  West  herlyngg  and  .James  de  Heyham 
parson  of  Soutbyrlyngham,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Ely 
in  Ely  which  he  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas  W'alkefare  knight . 
Witnesses  :  Ralph  de  Hynton,  John  de  Hereth,  Thomas  atte  Wyke, 
Thomas  Caunwill,  John  Clerk.  Dated  Ely.  Saturday  after  the 
Translation  of  St.  Benedict  the  Abbot  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  before 
the  chancellor  at  Drayton  co.  Xorhampton,  12  August. 

Aug.  13.         John  Kent  the  king's  serjeant  for  his  good  service  is  sent  to  the 
Drayton,      prior  and  convent  of  Christ  Church  Canterbury,  to  take  for  life  such 
maintenance  in  that  house  as  Nicholas  Wayte  deceased  had  at  t  lk- 
king's  command.  By  p.s.  [30005.] 

Aug.  15.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Bokelond 
Drayton,  and  John  Aleynson  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  William  Silverhill 
of  Overe,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  ;  as 
lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said 
William's  body  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  a  set  day 
now  to  come  in  order  to  answer  Ralph  Bacheler  upon  a  plea  concerning 
the  alleged  debt  and  detenue  of  100s.  ;  and  the  said  William  is  ready 
to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  praying  a  stay  ;  and  the 
said  John  and  John,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  the  day  the 
said  writ  is  returnable. 

Aug.  16.         Richard  de  Careswell  the  king's  serjeant  is  sent  to  the  prior  and 

Drayton,      convent  of  Goldcleve,  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house 

as  John  Seys  deceased  had  at  the  king's  command.       By  p.s.  [30013. J 

Aug.  12.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Mary  Glastonbury.  Request  to 
Drayton.  grant  to  William  Daune  the  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension  of  that 
house  as  shall  befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  them, 
making  him  letters  patent  thereupon  under  the  chapter  seal,  and 
writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this  request  ;  as  the 
abbot  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  Lb  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one 
of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until  provision  oi  a  benefice 

be   by  the  abbot   made   him  ;    and   the   king   ha-   nominated   the  .-aid 
William,  whose  advancement  he  ha-  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30003. J 

Aug.  20.  William  Hende  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent   of  Trentham,  to 

Nassington.   take  for  life  such  maintenance  111  that  house  asThoa  ford  d< 

had  at  the  king's  command.  By  p.*.  [90619.] 


24S  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  24d — cont. 

Aug.  15.         Nicholas  Wyttele  one  of  the  king's  hunters,  for  his  good  service 

Drayton.      and  for  other  particular  causes,  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 

Milton  co.  Dorset,  to  take  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  Walter 

Stodeley  deceased  or  any  other  heretofore  had  therein  at  the  command 

of  the  king  or  his  forefathers.  By  p.s.  [30610.] 

Aug.  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Notyngham.  Order  by  mainprise  of  William  de 
Blatherwick.  Wyntworth  of  Yorkshire,  Thomas  de  Bukyngham  of  Bukinghamshire, 
Thomas  Shocere  of  Yorkshire  and  John  Depyng  of  Lincolnshire  to 
stay  the  taking  of  the  bodies  of  William  de  Fournyvalle,  John  de 
Walkemulle  and  John  '  of  the  Hulle,'  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
king's  justices  when  John  Clegge  shall  be  convicted  of  the  felony 
hereinafter  mentioned  ;  as  on  their  behalf  it  is  shewn  the  king  that, 
by  procurement  of  certain  their  enemies,  they  are  indicted  for  aiding 
and  abetting  the  death  of  Robert  Barbour,  [slain]  by  John  Clegge 
it  is  said,  who  is  not  yet  convicted  thereof,  and  for  harbouring  the 
said  John  Clegge,  that  they  have  many  times  offered  the  sheriff 
mainpernors,  according  to  the  statute  lately  published  at  Westminster 
wherein  it  is  contained  that  those  indicted  for  such  abetting  and 
harbouring  are  replevisable  until  the  principals  shall  be  convicted 
of  such  felonies,  but  that  the  sheriff  has  refused  to  accept  them,  and 
contrary  to  the  statute  has  deferred  and  does  yet  defer  to  set  free  the 
said  prisoners  by  such  mainprise  ;  and  the  said  William  de  Wyntworth 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
body  for  body  to  have  the  said  prisoners  before  the  king  or  his  justices 
at  the  king's  command  to  stand  to  right  concerning  the  charges  aforesaid, 
when  John  Clegg  shall  be  so  convicted. 

Membrane  23d. 

Writing  of  Agnes  Baret,  sometime  wife  of  John  Forstall  of  the 
parish  of  Bixle,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Richard  Elin 
citizen  and  baker  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  field  of  land 
called  the  Doune  and  a  grove  called  Dounegrove  in  the  said  parish. 
Dated  London,  10  July  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancerv  at  Westminster, 
24  July. 

Indenture  of  demise  made  to  the  king  by  Walter  Amy  as,  John 
Abraham,  John  Doune,  John  Prat  clerks  and  Ralph  de  Walsham  of 
the  castle  and  county  of  Pembroke,  the  castles  and  lordships  of  Tynby 
and  Kylgarren  and  the  commote  of  Oystrelowe  in  Wales,  to  hold 
until  Martinmas  next  and  thenceforward  for  a  term  of  18  years,  at  which 
time  John  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  will 
come  of  age,  and  after  that  term  to  the  said  heir  and  to  the  heirs  of 
his  body  with  remainder,  for  lack  of  such  issue,  to  the  king  and  his 
heirs  ;  reciting  licence  given  to  the  said  earl  at  his  request  by  the 
king's  letters  patent  in  the  43rd  year  of  his  reign  to  make  to  whom  he 
pleased  a  feoffment  of  the  premises,  which  are  held  in  chief,  and  to 
such  persons  to  take  and  have  seisin  thereof,  and  to  give  the  same  to 
the  said  earl  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body  with  remainder,  for  lack  of 
issue,  to  the  king  and  his  heirs,  that  by  virtue  of  the  said  licence  the 
earl  made  a  feoffment  to  the  said  Walter,  John  Abraham,  John  Doune, 
John  Prat  and  David  Perky n  clerks,  the  said  Ralph  and  Thomas  de 


EDWARD    111.  _, 


1375.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

Cryckelade  and  to  their  heirs,  that  the  said  David  and  Thorn 

now  dead,  that  the  earl  died  without   beu  a  enfeoffed  then 

John  his  son  and  heir  being  within  age,  that  the  king  would  hv  law 
have  the  wardship  of  the  said  heir  if  such  feoffment  had  again  been 
made  to  the  earl  in  his  life  time,  ami  that  it  is  lawful  and  reasonable 
that  so  far  as  may  be  the  king  be  saved  harmless.  Witnesses  :  William 
bishop  of  Winchester,  Master  Adam  de  Houtun  bishop  <>t  St.  I>a\ 
Sir  William  Latymer  the  chamberlain,  Sir  John  de  Neville  steward  oi 
the  household,  Sir  John  Knyvet  the  chancellor,  Sir  Richard  Lescro 
the  treasurer,  Sir  Nicholas  Carreu  keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  Sir  John 
de  Cavendissh  the  chief  justice,  Sir  Robert  Bealknap  chief  justice  of 
the  Common  Bench,  Sir  William  Tank  chief  baron  of  the  exchequer. 
Dated  Westminster,  21  April  4!)  Edward  111. 

Memorandum   of   acknowledgment  by  the  said  Walter  and  Ralph 
23  July. 

Writing  of  William  Stanwyg  parson  of  Althorp  in  the  diocese  of 
Lincoln,  being  a  release  to  Sir  John  de  Scarle  and  John  de  Walt  ham 
clerk,  executors  of  Sir  Nicholas  de  Spaigne  late  parson  of  the  said 
church,  for  a  sum  of  money  in  hand  paid  to  the  said  William,  of  all 
actions,  plaints  and  demands  before  judges  ecclesiastical  or  secular 
for  repair  of  the  chancel,  books  and  ornaments  of  the  church,  the 
houses,  gates,  walls  or  rivers  of  the  rectorv  or  otherwise.  Dated 
London,  14  July  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  August. 

Aug.  13.         John  abbot  of  St.  John  Colcestre  to  William  de   Bursts]]  clerk. 
Drayton.      Recognisance  for  10/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  22<1. 

Writing  of  William  de  Brightlegh  of  Devon  and  Lawrence  his  brother, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  John  Doget  of  Butterwyk  and  Alice  his  wife  and 
to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John,  and  also  to  Reyna  who  was 
wife  of  Robert  de  Cayton,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  and  singular  the 
rents  hereinafter  mentioned  and  the  manor  of  Dukel  by  Totenham 
co.  Middlesex  and  the  lands  likewise  hereinafter  mentioned  :  reciting 
a  feoffment  of  the  said  manor  by  the  said  William  lately  made  by 
charter  indented  to  the  said  Robert,  Reyna  and  John,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  at  a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks  payable  at  Michaelmas  ami 
Easter  by  even  portions  to  the  said  William,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
power  being  reserved  to  them,  if  that  rent  he  three  days  in  mi. mi 
after  any  term  and  after  being  by  them  or  another  in  their  name 
demanded  in  the  church  ..f  St.  Margaret  Lotheburj  London  or  in  the 
said  manor,  to  enter  and  hold  the  same  again  in  then  formei  estate 
without  challenge  of  the  said  feoffees,  unless  within  fifteen  days  aft 
such  entry  full  payment  should  he  made  thereof  with  I8d.  a  da)  for 
cost-  and  expenses  of  their  agent  so  entering  the  manor  and  demanding 

the   -Mil    rent    fur  e\erv  da\    after  such   entry;     and    reciting   that    the 

said  Robert  and  John  aftei  granted  to  the  said  William.  In-  heirs  and 
assigns,  l'»  mark-  2d.  of  yearly  rent  t  i  be  taken  >  E&ohaelmas  and 
Easter  by  even   portion  of  all  their  tenements  iii  the   parishes  of 


260  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

St.  Margaret  Lothebury  andAllhallows  Bredstrete  in  the  city  of  London, 
and  that  the  said  William  by  writing  indented  made  a  defeasance 
of  that  rent  so  long  as  the  first  rent  by  the  said  charter  indented  reserved 
should  be  fully  paid,  provided  that  if  the  first  rent  should  without  the 
deed  of  him  the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  be  brought  to  nought 
in  part  or  in  whole,  it  should  be  lawful  for  him  and  them  to  levy  of 
the  second  rent  so  much  as  should  not  be  paid  of  the  first,  and  that  if  the 
first  rent  should  not  be  fully  paid  and  sufficient  distress  might  not  be 
found  in  the  said  lands  of  Duket,  or  if  the  entry  of  the  said  William, 
his  heirs  or  assigns,  upon  those  lands  for  the  first  rent  unpaid  or  distress 
taken  for  the  same  should  be  hindered  by  the  said  Robert  or  any 
other  tenant  thereof,  it  should  be  lawful  for  them  of  the  second  rent 
to  take  and  have  so  much  as  should  be  unpaid  of  the  first  rent,  so  that 
the  said  W7illiam,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  should  ever  have  and  take 
one  rent  or  other  until  they  should  enter  again  the  lands  of  Duket 
and  hold  the  same  for  three  weeks  after  such  entry  without  being 
contented  of  the  rent  as  aforesaid  ;  and  reciting  further  that  the  said 
William  after  granted  the  said  rent  for  life  to  the  said  Lawrence 
and  his  assigns,  that  after  the  said  Robert's  death  the  said  John 
Doget  made  a  release  of  the  said  manor  to  the  said  Reyna,  and  that 
she  after  made  a  feoffment  thereof  to  the  said  John  Doget  and  Alice 
and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  John  by  name  of  a  messuage,  300  acres  of 
land,  15  acres  of  meadow,  14  acres  of  wood  and  4S)d.  of  rent  in  Totenham 
and  Hauringeseye  co.  Middlesex  which  her  said  husband  and  she  and 
the  said  John  Doget  lately  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  William 
de  Brighlegh  (sic)  of  Devon,  cousin  and  heir  of  John  de  Stouford. 
Witnesses  :  John  de  Scordissh,  Richard  Forster,  John  Wroth  the 
younger,  Nicholas  de  Exton,  Roger  Laget,  John  Goldyng  the  elder, 
John  Whytwelle.     Dated  10  May  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Brightlegh,  31  August  this 
year,  before  Henry  Percehay  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
jiotestatem,  which  is  on  the  files  for  this  year. 

Writing  of  Roger  de  Harleston,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Robert 
de  Swyllyngton  the  uncle  knight,  Walter  de  Preston  and  John  Broun 
chaplains,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Wympole  co. 
Cantebrigge  which  he  the  said  Roger  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of 
Sir  Warin  de  Bassyngburne  of  Wympole,  and  of  all  lands,  rents  and 
services  which  he  had  by  gift  of  the  said  Warin  in  the  towns  of  Wympole, 
Aruyngton,  Craweden,  Orwell,  Malketon,  Barneton  and  Everisdon 
in  the  said  county.     Dated  Westminster  10  October  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
12  October. 

Charter  of  John  Dautry,  son  and  heir  of  John  Dautry  of  Carleton 
in  Craven,  being  a  gift  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de 
Plesynton,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands  etc.  in  the  towns  of  Great 
Eccleston,  Kyrkham  and  Kyrkpulton  in  Amnoudernesse  (sic)  which  the 
said  Robert  holds  by  grant  of  the  said  John  the  son  or  which  ever  were 
of  William  Bartaille.  Dated  Great  Eccleston,  6  September  49 
Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  October. 

Oct.  6.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Tomer, 

Westminster.  William  Lark  and  John  Hygyn  of   London  to  stay  altogether  the 


49  EDWARD  111. 


1375.  Membrane  2'ld—cont. 

farther  execution  of  the  king's  Late  writ  ordering  the  sheriffs  to  cause 
Richard  Pountenay  and  Robert  Pountenay  esquires  to  come  before 

them,  and  to  compel  the  said  Richard  and  Robert  to  find  mainpern 
who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the 
sheriffs  would  answer,  would  mainpern  the  said  Richard  and  Robert 

that  they  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  barm  to  John 
Wolscroue  chaplain,  and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  commit  them 
the  nearest  gaol  there  to  abide  until  they  would  willingly  so  do,  and 
if  the  said  Richard  and  Robert  or  one  of  them  be  taken  by  virtu.-  of 
that  writ,  order  to  set  them  or  either  of  them  free  without  delay  ;  as 
that  writ  issued  at  the  suit  of  the  said  John  Wolscroue,  averring  that 
he  was  by  the  said  Richard  and  Robert  grievously  threatened  in  Life 
and  limbs  ;  but  the  said  William  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  them  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of 
100  marks. 

Oct.  22.  John  de  Arundell  knight,  son  of  Richard  earl  of  Arundell,  to   LVo 

Westminster,  fitz  Waryn  knight,  John  de  Chelreye  clerk  and  Richard  de  Bfarlebergh, 

executors  of  Agnes  Mautravers.  Recognisance  for  1,200  marks. 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 
Surrey. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  John  de  Chelreye. 

Oct.  22.  William  Whyther  of  Dorset  to  John  Pokeswelle,  John  Hundresfeld 

Westminster,  and  John  Tracy.     Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Dorset. 

John  Pokeswelle,  John  Hundresfeld  and  John  Tracy   to    William 
Whyther.     Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Dor- 
Writing  of  Robert  Lambourne  clerk,   being  a  genera]   release   t<> 
John  de  Bisshopeston  clerk,  his  heirs  and  executors,  of  all  actions 
real  and  personal.     Dated  London.  20  October  49  Edward  111. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  October. 

Membrane  2  b/. 

Aug.  15.         John  Lamburne  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Athelyngnye, 

Drayton.      to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  Walter  de  Stodeley 

deceased  had  at  the  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [30609.] 

Aug.  31.         John  Wyght  of  Kyngeston  the  king's  serjeant  is  Bent  to  the  prior 

Rockingham,  and  convent  of  Andevcre,  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that 
house  as  John  Westele  deceased  had  there  likewise  at  the  king's 
command.  By  p.s.  [30636.] 

Sept.  1.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  the  city 
Rockingham,  of  London.  Order,  for  particular  causes,  to  cause  proclamation  to 
be  made  within  that  port  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  anj  merchant 
or  other  native  or  alien  by  virtue  of  any  command  of  the  king  to  the 
collectors  heretofore  made  or  otherwise  after  Michaelmas  next  until 
further  order  to  take  any  wool,  hides  or  woolfells  over  to  anj  foreign 
parts,  or  cause  them  to  b  ken,  under  pain  oi  forfeiture,  but  bo 

suffer  all  such  merchant*  so  to  do  without  Let  until  ti  the 

eu  ■  and  duties  being  first   paid.  Bj  k.  and  I  . 

[Feeder  a.  \ 


252  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  21  d — cont. 

The  like  to  the  collectors  in  the  port  of  Gippewych  and  in  nine 
oilier  ports  ;    also  to  the  sheriff  of  Dorset,  mutatis  mutandis. 
[Ibid.] 

Aug.  24.  To  Adam  de  Eveiyngham  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace 
Blatherwick.  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Notynghamshire.  Order,  if 
William  de  Fournyvalle,  John  de  Walkemulle  and  John  '  of  the  Hulle  ' 
be  before  them  indicted  for  aiding  and  abetting  the  death  of  Robert 
Barbour,  [slain]  by  John  Clegge  who  is  not  yet  convicted  it  is  said, 
and  for  harbouring  the  said  John  Clegge,  and  if  John  Clegge  be  not 
yet  convicted,  to  stay  the  exigents  and  the  publication  of  outlawry 
against  them  and  command  the  same  to  be  stayed  until  the  said 
principal  shall  be  convicted  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  they  are 
so  indicted,  and  that  the  said  justices  are  purposing  to  proceed  against 
them  on  those  charges  although  John  Clegge  is  not  yet  convicted, 
which  if  it  were  suffered  would  tend  to  contempt  of  the  king  and  to 
a  breach  of  the  law  and  custom  of  England. 

Sept.  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Taillour, 

Rockingham.  William  Morton,  John  Welewas  and  William  Palmere  to  stay  the 
taking  of  the  body  of  any  of  the  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Farendon, 
although  lately  by  writ  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  commit  to  prison 
all  men  and  tenants  of  the  said  manor  conspiring  and  confederate 
together,  whom  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  he  should  find  to  have 
done  or  attempted  aught  which  may  tend  to  a  breach  of  the  peace, 
there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  should  find  security  to  stand 
to  right  in  that  behalf  ;  as  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others,  tenants 
of  the  said  manor  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
each  for  other  and  for  the  residue  of  the  said  tenants  to  answer  before 
the  king  or  elsewhere  as  he  will  appoint  to  any  who  will  make  complaint, 
and  to  stand  to  right  concerning  the  premises. 

Sept.  7.  Alexander  de  la  Buterie  the  king's  Serjeant  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and 

Rockingham,  convent  of  Fountains,  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as 

John  Salleye  deceased  had  at  the  king's  command.     By  p.s.  [30648.] 

Sept.  22.  To  the  maj^or  and  constable  of  the  staple  of  the  town  of  St.  Botolph. 
Westminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Credy  and  Francis  Johanni  merchants 
of  the  old  Stross'  of  Florence,  by  mainprise  of  the  said  John  of  the 
fellowship  of  the  old  Stross',  Peter  Mark  of  the  fellowship  of  the 
Albertini  and  Peter  Peragle  of  the  fellowship  of  the  new  Stross', 
to  cause  certain  wool  to  be  dearrested  and  delivered  to  the  said  mer- 
chants to  make  their  advantage  thereof  at  their  pleasure,  and  if  there  be 
cause  wherefore  they  ought  not  so  to  do,  order  to  be  before  the  king 
and  council  at  Westminster  within  eight  days  after  the  receipt  of 
these  presents  to  shew  forth  the  same  and  further  to  do  and  receive 
what  shall  then  and  there  be  by  the  council  appointed,  bringing  this 
writ ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  at  the  said  town  the  said  John  and 
Francis  bought  29  sarplers  of  wool  and  marked  the  same  with  their 
mark,  that  at  the  suit  of  John  Driffeld  and  others  the  said  wool  is 
in  that  staple  arrested  for  particular  causes,  and  that  the  mayor  and 
constable  have  taken  no  heed  to  receive  the  said  merchants  to  make 
their  excuses  touching  the  same,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and  the  said 
John  Credy,  Peter  and  Peter,  appearing  in  person  before  the  king  and 


49  EDWARD  III.  253 


1875.  Membrane  2\d—con(. 

council,  have  mainperned  to  answer  touching  the  premises  and  for 
the  said  wool  before  the  council  at  Westminster  or  before  tin-  mayor 
and  constable  in  the  said  staple,  as  shall  be  by  the  king  and  council 
appointed. 

Sept.  27.        John    Brodok    of    London    '  fisshmongere  '    to    Richard    Ifory    of 
Westminster.  Clerkenwell.     Recognisance    for    20/.,    to     be    levied,    in    default     of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Boudy  chaplain,  giving  with  warranty  to  William 
Walworth,  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Adam  FraunceyB,  Simon  tie  Mordon, 
William  Haldene,  John  Aubrey,  Nicholas  Brembre,  John  Philip 
John  Fifhyde,  John  Ussher  and  William  Whetelee  citizens  of  London, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  10  acres  of  land  in  Eye  sometime  of  John  de 
Padyngton,  and  granting  to  them  with  the  like  warranty  the  reversion 
of  a  messuage,  34  acres  of  land  and  H  acre  of  meadow  in  the  town  of 
Eye  sometime  of  John  de  Padyngton,  and  of  all  other  lands,  rents 
and  services  late  of  John  de  Padyngton  in  the  towns  of  Eye  and 
Westminster  now  held  for  life  by  William  But  and  Joan  his  wife  with 
reversion  to  him  the  said  Thomas.  Witnesses:  Walter  Leycestre, 
Richard  Rook,  Roger  de  Sudburv,  Robert  Hagbourne,  William  de 
Hulle.     Dated  Eye,  20  August  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  September. 

Sept.  9.  To  the  abbess  and  convent  of  Godestowe.     Order  to  giant  to  John 

Westminster,  de  Wendlyngburgh  the  younger  the  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension 
in  that  house  as  shall  befit  the  givers  and  should  hind  the  receiver  to 
them,  making  him  thereupon  letters  patent  under  the  chapter  seal, 
and  writing  again  without  delay  what  they  will  do  ;  as  the  abbess 
by  reason  of  her  new  creation  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the 
king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination,  until  provision  of  a  benefice 
shall  by  the  abbess  be  made  him  ;  and  the  king  has  nominated  the 
said  John,  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30651 

Oct.  11.  Richard  Sampson  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Thornton, 

Eltham.      to  have  such  maintenance  as  John  atte  Halle  deceased  or  any  other 

had  in  that  abbey.  By  p.s.  [30709.] 

Writing  of  John  de  Bisshopeston  clerk,  being  a  receipt  and 
acquittance  to  Robert  Lambourne  clerk  and  Thomas  Brodok  for  20 
marks  in  full  of  all  moneys  due  to  this  date  :  and  a  general  release 
to  them  of  all  actions  real  and  personal.  Dated  London.  20  July 
4!)  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  October. 

Membrane  20i. 

July  15.         To  Edward  prince  of  Wales  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  ^i  Ch< 

Westminster.  Order  on  sight  of  these  present-  forthwith  to  Bend  express  commands 
to  his  ministers  within  the  said   principality  and  county  to  publish 
in  singular  the    ports   and    places   therein   (In-   truce   now    uewlj    in 
between  the  kin-  and   bis  adversaries  of  France,  the  form  whei 

*  Tin;  w arrant  is  dated  Rockingham  oa  pt.  l". 


264  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  20d — cont. 

the  king  is  sending  to  him  upon  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  cause  the 
same  to  be  kept. 
[Fader  a.) 

July  15.  To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  Dorset.     Like  order  to  cause  the 

Westminster,  said  truce,  the  form  whereof  the  king  is  sending  upon  a  schedule 
enclosed,  to  be  proclaimed  in  those  counties,  and  to  be  kept. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  and  to  the  cities  throughout  England ; 
also  to  William  Latymer  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of 
the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant  there. 
[Ibid.] 

Truce  made  and  agreed  generally  and  universally  by  land  and  sea 
between  the  king  and  his  adversary  of  France  for  them,  their  children, 
the  said  adversary's  brethren,  their  subjects,  allies,  auxiliaries  and 
adherents  whatsoever,  their  realms,  lands,  countries,  dominions, 
powers  and  districts,  and  especially  for  John  duke  of  Brittany  and 
Henry  calling  himself  king  of  Castille,  their  subjects  etc.,  the  realm 
of  Castille  and  other  realms  held  by  the  said  Henry,  his  lands  etc. 
This  truce  shall  begin  in  Pykardy  and  Vermondoys,  in  all  the  country 
this  side  the  river  Oyse  and  all  the  realm  of  England  on  the  day  of 
the  date  of  these  presents,  to  wit  27  June,  the  seaports  excepted  where 
it  shall  begin  on  the  day  hereinafter  declared,  in  Normandy,  France 
and  Champaigne,  Burgundy  and  Doulphyne  2  July  next,  in  Brittany, 
Anjow,  Mayne  and  Torayne  7  July,  in  Paitow,  Santonge,  Engemoys, 
Auv[er]gn,  Lymosyn,  Berry  and  Bourbonoys  and  in  the  county  of 
Ferois  16  July,  in  Agenoys,  Bourdoloys,  Gaconnoys,  Berne,  Bigore 
and  other  parts  of  Guyen  and  Langedoc  and  generally  in  all  other 
parts  of  the  realm  of  France  not  herein  named  22  July,  in  the  realm 
of  Castille  2  August,  by  sea  from  Lescluse  in  Flanders  to  the  mouth 
of  the  Sayne  and  throughout  the  ports  of  England  opposite  9  July, 
from  the  mouth  of  the  Sayne  to  Rochel  and  throughout  the  ports 
in  England  opposite  17  July,  from  la  Rochel  to  Burdeux  and  Baion 
22  July,  and  generally  throughout  the  other  ports  and  portions  of  the 
realm  of  France,  England  and  Castille  and  other  the  dominions  of 
the  said  kings,  their  allies  etc.  by  land  and  sea  2  August ;  and  the 
same  shall  last  from  the  days  above  mentioned  until  the  last  day  of 
June  1376  at  sunrise  in  every  country.     French. 

[Ibid.] 

Oct.  3.  Thomas  Torell  to  Thomas  de  Newenham  clerk,  John  Ednesore  and 

Westminster.  Thomas  Rocheford.     Recognisance  for  80/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Cambridgeshire, 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Thomas  de  Newenham 
and  John. 

Sept.  19.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  Blake 
Westminster,  of  Ware  and  John  Warenner  of  Ware  of  Hertfordshire  to  stay  the 
further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to  attach 
Maud  Broke  of  Spaldyng  so  as  to  have  her  before  the  justices  at 
Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  to  answer  as  well  the  king 
as  Richard  Smelt  of  Ware  wherefore  without  reasonable  cause  and 
the  said  Richard's  licence  she  withdrew  from  his  service  before  the 
term  agreed,  contrary  to   the   ordinance   by   the   king  and   council 


49  EDWARD  III. 


1375.  Membrane  20d—cont. 

made  for  the  common  weal,  and  if  she  be  taken  for  that  cause  to  set 
her  free  without  delay,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  said  Justin 
the  said  Nicholas  and  John,  appearing  in  person  in  chanoery,   have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  101.  to  have  her  body  before  tl. 
justices  at  that  day. 

Charter  of  Blanche  Wake  lady  of  Lydell,  giving  with  warranty  to 
John  de  Oustwyk,  Robert  de  Garton  rector  of  Snavea  and  Richard 

son  of  John  Thorgot,  their  heirs  and  assigns.  35  acres  of  land,  s  a< 

I  rood  of  meadow,  6J  acres  of  pasture  and  alder  wood  in  Great  T 

as  fully  as  the  said  Blanche  had  the  same  by  gift  and  feoffment  of 
Nicholas  de  Sutton  parson  of  Great  Wygbergh,  John  de  la  Rokel, 
William  de  la  Rokel  late  parson  of  Reddegrave  and  Adam  Waryn 
of  Colcestre.  Witnesses:  Sir  Richard  de  Waldegrave,  Sir  Robert 
Corbet,  Sir  Robert  de  Teye  knights.  John  de  Burgh  parson  of  Colne 
Wake,  John  atte  Hill,  John  Colop.  Dated  Brunne  castle,  the  morrow 
of  Michaelmas  48  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Westdepyng,  7  April  Last, 
before  Richard  de  Treton  clerk  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
fotestatem,  which  is  on  the  files  for  this  year. 

Writing  of  William  de  Montagu  earl  of  Salisbury  and  lord  of  -Man, 
being  a  release  to  Richard  de  Chaddeslee  his  clerk  of  all  actions  to 
date,  as  he  has  rendered  to  the  carl  before  the  auditors  appointed  for 
the  purpose  a  final  account  for  the  time  he  was  receiver  of  the  earl's 
treasure,  and  the  earl  has  received  of  him  full  payment  of  all  debts, 
accounts  and  arrears.   DatedLondon,  1  0ctober4!)  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 

II  October. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Bysshopeston,  son  and  heir  of  Roger  do 
Bysshopeston,  granting  with  warranty  to  Richard  de  Kyngton  parson 
of  Scheldon  and  Richard  Botillcr  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
the  reversion  of  the  manor  of  Larkestoke  co.  Gloucestre,  a  messuage 
in  Bysswode,  a  field  called  Sorelesfeld  in  Lapworth,  a  messuage  and 
croft  in  Lapworthe  sometime  held  in  bondage  by  Walter  Bonde  with 
the  body  of  Thomas  son  of  Walter  atte  Knyhtes  and  all  thai  goes 
with  him,  all  the  outwood  of  Bysswode.  the  manor  of  Bysswode  and 
all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Lapworthe  and  Rowynton  sometime 
held  by  Maud  de  Cantelowe,  thirteen  messuages,  eight  \  irgates  of  land, 
10  acres  of  meadow,  4  acres  of  wood,  30  acres  of  waste  and  8s.  of  rent 
in  Pipewell  and  Waresleye  co.  Wircestre  with  the  bodies  of  aeifa  there 
dwelling  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  and  all  the  lands,  rents  and 
-.  i\  ices  in  Hulle  and  in  More  by  Fladebury  co.  Wircestre  and  in  Lyndon 
co.  Warrewyk  sometime  held  by  .loan  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de 
Bysshopeston  with  the  mils  dwelling  in  Hulle  and  More  afi 
and  all  that  goes  with  them,  all  now  h<  Id  for  life  without  impeachment 
of  waste  by  Beatrice  de  Bysshopt  ston  with  reversion  aft<  r  her  death 
to  him  the  said  Thomas  son  of  Ro  er.  Witnesses:  John  Pecchee, 
Thomas  de  Erdyngton  knights,  Richard  de  Whitacre,  John  Walshe, 
Richard  liusshel.  Dated  Sheldon,  Sunday  before  St.  M 
•Is  I'.duard  III.     French. 

Memorandum    of    acknowledgment    a<    Sheldon,    Tuesdav    hel 
St.  Margaret  last,  before  Rogei  de  Kirketon,  by  rirtui   of  the  hi 
writ  pf  dedimtu  votestatem,  which  i-  on  the  61< 


266  (WLKNDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  2§d — cont. 

Oct.  20.  John    Parker    of    Olneye    to    William    Lovet    lord    of    Lyscombe. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  240/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Warwickshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  on  Sunday  after  St.  Michael  in  Monte  Tumba 
49  Edward  III,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon 
condition  that  John  Parkere  of  Olneye  or  some  other  in  his  name 
pay  to  William  Lovet  lord  of  Lyscoumbe  or  to  his  attorney  at  Lyscombe 
40/.  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Martin  next,  40/.  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary 
following,  and  40/.  in  the  octaves  of  Easter  following.  Dated  London, 
as  above. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  William  in  the  chancery 
at  Westminster,  20  October. 

Oct.  20.  William  Peraunt  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Andevere,  to 

Westminster,  have  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  priory  as  John  de  Westle 

deceased  had  at  the  king's  command.  [See  p.s.  30729-3 

Membrane  19c/. 

Sept.  2.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Wyghtman, 

Rockingham.  John  atte  Halle  and  John  Depyng  of  Lincolnshire  to  stay  the  taking 
of  the  body  of  Robert  de  Markham  chaplain,  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  by  writ  de  judicio,  tested  by  Robert 
Belknap  chief  justice  of  the  Bench,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to 
take  the  said  defendant  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  chief  justice 
and  his  fellows  at  a  set  day  yet  to  come,  to  answer  Joan  who  was 
wife  of  Thomas  de  Fournyvalle  knight  concerning  an  alleged  trespass 
at  Treton  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  defendant  petition  is  made 
to  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready  to  answer  her  the  day  the  said 
writ  is  returnable  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  and  the  said 
William,  John  and  John,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  10  marks  to  have  him  before  the  said 
justices  at  the  aforesaid  day. 

Charter  of  John  Doget  called  Boterwik  citizen  of  London,  giving 
with  warranty  to  William  Walworth,  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Adam 
Fraunceys,  Simon  de  Mordon,  William  Haldene,  John  Aubrey,  Nicholas 
Brembre,  John  Philipot,  John  Fifhide,  John  Ussher  and  William 
Whetelee  citizens  of  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands, 
rents  and  services  and  the  reversions  of  all  such  in  the  towns  and 
parishes  of  Westminster,  Eye,  Knyghtebrigge,  Kensyngton,  Brompton, 
Chelchhethe,  Totenham  and  Haryngeay  and  elsewhere  in  Middlesex, 
with  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  woods,  hedges,  ditches,  ways, 
commons,  suits  of  court  etc.  Witnesses  :  John  Shordych,  William 
atte  Watre,  John  Samford,  Thomas  de  Waudene,  Ivo  de  Fulham, 
John  Fraunkleyn,  William  Brienge,  William  Hulle.  Dated 
Westminster,  20  August  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  September. 

Sept.  27.         William  Catour  of  Redyng  to  Nicholas  de  Carreu.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  40  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Berkshire. 


49  EDWARD  III.  267 


1375.  Membrane  l(.)d — con'. 

Aug.  15.         John  Stygeyn  messenger  of  the  king's  ohambei  it  to  the  prior 

Drayton,      and  convent  of  Christ  Church  London,  to  take  for  life  Bach  maintenance 

of  that  house  as  Walter  de  Stodeley  deceased  used  to  have  therein. 

By  p.s.  [30608.] 

Writing  of  Thomas  Hynton,  cousin  and  heir  of  Ralph  de  Wedon 
knight,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Hugh  Cheyne  of  the  manor  of  Rolveston 
co.  Leycester.     Dated  10  September  49  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  October. 

Writing  of  Agnes  de  Sonderlond,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Thomas  son  of  Thurstan  de  Tildeslegh,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all 
messuages,  lands  etc.  which  she  had  in  the  hamlet  of  Chaydok  in  the 
town  of  Tildeslegh.  Dated  Crebelgate  London,  Friday  after  Michaelmas 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  October. 

Oct.  19.  Richard   Stury   knight   to   John   de   Dounham.     Recognisance   for 

Westminster.  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  in  Worcestershire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

John  de   Dounham   to   Richard   Stury  knight.     Recognisance   for 
1,000  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norhamptonshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  18d. 

Writing  of  John  Wyneslowe  of  Honysdon  the  elder,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  John  Wynselowe  the  younger  his  brother.  William 
Eynsham,  Philip  Yonge,  John  Cosyn  citizens  and  pepperers  of  London 
and  John  Wiltshire  of  Heydon  co.  Essex,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
all  right  present  or  future  in  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  now 
held  by  his  said  brother  and  the  others  in  the  town  of  Honysdon 
sometime  of  John  Wynselowe  his  father.  Witnesses  :  John  Rugewyne, 
Richard  Brawghyng,  Nicholas  Blake  the  younger,  Richard  Heyle, 
William  Rokesburgh,  Thomas  Boukoc,  John  Parker  of  Honysdon. 
Dated  Honysdon,  19  October  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  October. 

Writing  of  William  Lovet  lord  of  Liscoumbe.  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  John  Parker  of  Olneye,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of 
the  manor  of  Holte  with  appurtenances  in  Warwykshire  and 
Leycestreshire.  Witnesses  :  William  de  Spaygne  of  Medbume, 
William  Dextre  of  Halghton,  Ralph  Nbtyngnam  of  Blaston,  John 
atte  Welle  of  Drayton,  William  Nel  <>f  tin-  same.  Dated  London, 
Saturday  after  St. Michael   in  Monte  Tumba  4!»   Edward    HI. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  October. 

Oct.  23.         Thomas  de  Graunteon,  John  Broumwych  and  John  de  Eylkeford 
Westminstor.  knights  and  John  de  Oldecastel  to  John  de  Blount  tgu  knight.    Joint 
and  several  recognisance  for  400  mark-.  t<>  he  Levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

17 


258  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  18d — cont. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition 
that  Sir  Thomas  de  Grauntson,  Sir  John  Brumwych,  Sir  John  de 
Eyllesford  knights  and  John  de  Oldecastel  shall  pay  or  cause  to  be 
paid  400  marks  to  Sir  John  Mountagu  knight,  his  attorney  or  executors 
in  London  at  the  Temple  church  in  '  Fletestre  '  within  three  years  from 
this  date,  to  wit  44Z.  8s.  10|d.  at  Easter  next,  44£.  8s.  \0^d.  at  Michaelmas 
following  or  within  a  quinzaine  of  those  terms,  and  so  from  year  to 
.year  until  the  whole  be  paid.  Dated  London,  24  October  the  same 
year.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  October. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  warranty  clause  in  a  deed  of  quitclaim 
enrolled  of  the  manor  of  EtonTregos  co.  Hereford,  made  to  Sir  Thomas 
de  Grauntson  knight  by  Sir  John  de  Mountagu  knight,  witnessing 
that  Sir  Thomas,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  take  no  advantage  thereof 
by  writ  of  warranty  of  charter,  voucher  or  otherwise  save  only  to  bar 
any  action  of  Sir  John  and  his  heirs  in  time  to  come.  Dated  London, 
22  October  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  October. 

Writing  of  John  Mountagu  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Thomas  de  Grauntson  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
of  Eton  Tregos  co.  Hereford.  Witnesses  :  Edmund  de  Mortuo  Mari 
earl  of  March,  Gilbert  Talbot,  John  Lovel,  John  Bromwych,  John 
Eylesford,  John  de  la  Wode  knights,  John  Oldecastell,  Philip  Holgot. 
Dated  Eton  aforesaid,  Friday  the  feast  of  St.  Matthew  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  October. 

Oct.  27.  William  Archebaud  '  assewer  '  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 

Westminster.  Glastonbury,  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  Walter 

Wyght  deceased  had  at  the  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [30738.] 

Oct.  28.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Dedemore 

Westminster,  and  William  de  London  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  John 
Dedemore  clerk,  although  lately  upon  the  petition  of  John  Torold  and 
William  Legge  of  London  '  carter,'  averring  that  the  said  clerk 
threatened  them  in  their  bodies  and  limbs,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs 
to  cause  him  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find 
mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them, 
would  mainpern  him  that  he  should  cause  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm 
to  the  complainants,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  Neugate 
gaol,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ; 
as  the  said  Thomas  and  William  de  London,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40Z.  that  he  shall  cause 
or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  complainants. 

Writing  of  Walter  Colingbourne,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  William  Hechecok  of  Chaldebourne,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Andovere  co.  Hampton  sometime 
of  John  Ingulf.  Witnesses  :  Michael  Skyllyng,  Nicholas  Bray,  Edmund 
Spircok,  Robert  May,  John  London.  Dated  Andovere,  the  feast  of 
All  Saints  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  September  (sic). 


40  K1>\V  \U|>   HI.  250 


1375.  Membram    \6d — cunt. 

Writing  of  John Osbern, one  of  the  executors  of  Godfreyde  la  Rotate, 
being  a  receipt  and  acquittance  to  Robert  <lr  Muskham  clerk  for  -<•/. 
in  part  of  a  greater  sum.     Dated  London,  3  June  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  November. 

Membrane  17'/. 

Oct.  22.  Richard  de  Claypole  to  John  de  Beverle  esquire.     Elecognisanoe  for 

Westminster.  60/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands    and  chattels 
in  Surrey. 

Writing  of  Reynold  Berneres  parson  of  Depedene,  John  Ghareman 
of  Riclyngg  and  Richard  Haselbech  perpetual  vicar  of  Wymbisch, 
being  a  grant  to  Robert  de  Lamborne  parson  of  Wymbisch  for  his 
life  of  a  yearly  rent  of  100s.,  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions  of  all  their  lands  in  the  towns  of  Wymbisch,  Thaxestede 
and  the  hamlet  of  Yerdlee  co.  Essex  sometime  of  John  de  Wymbisch 
and  John  Elys,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Witness 
Thomas  Brodok,  John  Freman,  John  Hervy,  William  Colwelle, 
John  Michel,  John  Schepherde,  John  Jemes.  Dated  Wymbisch, 
1  October  47  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  October  this  year. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Kyng  of  Totenham,  cousin  and  heir  of  John 
Bernes  citizen  and  alderman  of  London,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Henry  bishop  of  Wircestre,  Nicholas  Carewe,  Richard  Lyons  and 
Henry  Medbourne  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  lands,  rent-  and 
services  and  the  reversions  of  tenants  whatsoever,  when  they  shall 
fall  in,  which  the  said  Thomas  has  in  the  towns  of  Edelmeton,  Totenham 
and  Schordich  co.  Middlesex  and  Elthain  co.  Kent,  except  10  a< 
of  wood  in  Totenham  called  Berwyswode  and  5  acres  of  meadow  in 
that  town,  all  which  premises  were  sometime  of  the  said  John  Bernes. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Knyvet  then  chancellor,  Sir  John  Cavendissh 
and  Sir  Robert  Bealknap  then  justices,  John  Wroth,  William  Pymme, 
John  Goldyng.     Dated  Edelmeton,  24  October  40  Edward   III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Loudon. 
25  October. 

Charter  of  Adam  Berden  rector  of  St.  Mary  atte  Hulle  London  and 
John  Stokyngbury  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London,  demising  to 
Isabel  who  was  wife  of  William  Olneye  late  citizen  and  fishmoc 
of  London,  her  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands,  rent-  etc.  in  Sopereslane 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Pane-race  London,  in  breadth  between  Bopereslane 
on  the  east  and  a  tenement  of  Adam  Stable  on  the  west,  and  in  length 
extending  from  Yeuwenelane  towards  the  south  to  a  void  piece  of 
ground  in  Sopereslane  towards  the  north,  sometime  of  .John  Olneye 
knight,  which  they  had  by  bequest  of  her  said  husband,  as  contain,  d 

in  his  will  proved,  published  and  enrolled  in  the  busting  of  London 
holden  for  pleas  of  land  on  Monday  before  St.  Margaret  19  Edward 
III;  William  Walworth  being  then  mayor  of  London,  Richard 
Lyouna  and  William  Wodehoua  sheriffs,  and  Adam  Stable  alderman 
of  the  ward.  Witnesses:  John  Eaddele,  William  K  i  John  Dovy, 
John  Organ.     Dated   London,  Saturday  the  Nativity  ol   St.   Mary 

the  same  year. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Adam  in  the  ohanoery 
at  Westminster  - 1  I  October 


260 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

Sept.  22.         William  de  Eyston  of  Istelworth  is  sent  to  the  abbot  of  Peterborough, 

Westminster,  to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  abbey  as  Reynold  Barber  deceased 

had  at  the  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [30672.] 

Thomas  de  Eyston  of  Istelworth  is  sent  to  the  abbot  of  Pippewell, 
to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  abbey  as  William  de  Eyston 
his  brother  lately  had  at  the  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [30675.] 

Charter  of  Ralph  de  Restwold,  giving  his  manors  with  warranty 
to  William  de  Shiltwode  parson  of  Chelreye,  William  Baylemond  and 
John  de  Foreye  and  to  their  heirs,  namely  the  manor  of  Crowemersh 
Giffard  co.  Oxford  with  all  other  his  lands  in  that  county,  his  manor 
of  la  Lee  co.  Berkes  with  all  his  lands  in  that  county,  and  his  manor 
of  la  Ltyle  co.  Wiltesir  with  all  other  his  lands  in  that  county.  Witnesses  : 
Gilbert  Wace,  William  Mackeneye  knights,  Henry  Stormy,  Robert 
Lenham,  Thomas  Doyly,  Andrew  de  Stratton.  Dated  Crowemersh 
Gyffard,  the  feast  of  St.  Luke  38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  October  this  year. 

Charter  of  William  de  Shiltwode  parson  of  Chelreye,  William 
Baylemond  and  John  de  Foreye,  giving  their  manors,  namely  the  manors 
of  Crowemerssh  Gyffard  co.  Oxford,  la  Lee  co.  Berkes  and  la  Hyle 
co.  Wiltesir,  with  all  their  lands  in  those  counties  which  they  lately 
had  by  gift  of  Ralph  de  Restwold,  to  the  said  Ralph  and  his  assigns 
during  his  life,  and  after  his  death  to  him  and  his  executors  for  ten 
years  longer,  with  remainder  after  that  term  to  William  his  son  and 
to  the  heirs  male  of  William's  body,  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue 
to  Ralph  brother  of  the  said  William  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body, 
remainder  to  Elizabeth  daughter  of  Ralph  de  Restwold  and  to  the 
heirs  male  of  her  body,  remainder  to  Joan  sister  of  the  said  Elizabeth 
and  to  the  heirs  male  of  her  body,  remainder  to  William  de  Mackeneye 
knight  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  remainder  to  the  right  heirs 
of  the  said  Ralph  de  Restwold.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Sakeville, 
Gilbert  Wace  knights,  Henry  Sturmy,  Robert  Lenham,  Thomas 
Doylly,  Andrew  de  Stratton.  Dated  Crowemersh  Giffard,  the  feast 
of  St.  Luke  39  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  October  this  year. 

Oct.  26.  To  John  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold 

Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  not  to  compel  Ralph  Basset  of  Sapecote 
knight,  or  cause  him  to  be  compelled  by  reason  of  the  lordship  of 
Byteham  and  the  lands  which  were  of  Robert  de  Colvylle  there  to  be 
put  upon  assizes,  juries  or  other  recognitions  whatsoever  before  them, 
contrarv  to  custom  ;  as  neither  he  nor  the  said  Robert  nor  his 
ancestors,  being  lords  of  Byteham  and  tenants  of  those  lands,  ought 
by  reason  of  the  same  to  be  put  thereupon,  nor  heretofore  used  so 
to  be. 


Membrane  IQd. 

Oct.  9.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury.     Order  to 

Westminster,  grant  to  Thomas  de  Sabriches worth  the  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly 

pension  of  that  house  as  shall  befit  the  givers  and  should  bind  the 

receiver  to  them,  making  him  thereupon  letters  patent  under  the 


19  EDWARD  111.  26] 


1375.  Membrane  l(k? — cont. 

chapter  seal,  and  writing  again  without  delay  what  they  will  do; 
as  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the  abbot  is  bound  in  such  a  pension 
to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until  pro\  ision  of  a 
benefice  shall  by  the  abbot  be  made  him  ;  and  the  long  has  nominated 
the  said  Thomas,  whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  |>.-. 

Oct.  3.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 

Westminster,  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  them  to  cause  Thomas  do 
Swafhain  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  security,  under 
a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  him  for  which  they  would  answer, 
that  he  should  not  without  the  king's  special  licence  depart  to  any 
foreign  parts,  nor  there  prosecute  aught  or  cause  aught  to  be  prosecuted 
that  might  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  people,  nor  send  any 
man  thither  for  the  purpose,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him 
to  prison  there  to  abide  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  and  order 
by  mainprise  of  Robert  Boxford  '  draper,'  John  Blak  '  cornmongere,' 
William  Stoket  of  London  '  dyer,'  and  Henry  Grendon  '  taillour ' 
of  the  city  of  London  to  set  the  said  Thomas  free  from  prison  if  taken 
for  that  cause,  any  command  of  the  king  to  them  addressed  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as  that  writ  issued  upon  information 
received  that  the  said  Thomas  purposed  to  pass  to  foreign  parts  in 
order  to  prosecute  many  things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and 
people  ;  but  the  said  Robert  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in 
chancery  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  2007. 

Oct.  28.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold 

Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  to  stay  until  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary 
next  the  process  touching  the  presentments  hereinafter  mentioned ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  that  before  the  said  justices  at  Lincoln 
presentment  is  now  made  that,  whereas  the  citizens  of  Lincoln  hold 
that  city  and  the  suburb  of  the  king  at  fee  farm  for  180^.  yearly  payable 
at  the  exchequer,  and  have  in  aid  of  their  farm  the  return  of  all  writs 
and  exchequer  summonses  of  green  wax,  with  all  liberties  and  five 
customs  to  them  granted  of  old  time  by  the  king's  forefathers  and 
confirmed  by  the  king,  namely  that  all  pleas  of  land  and  other 
whatsoever  shall  be  held  in  the  city  hall  of  pleas  called  the  Gildhall 
and  not  elsewhere  contrary  to  their  will,  also  '  inffangthef ,' 
1  outfangthef ,'  the  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives,  the  assize  of  Im 
and  ale,  the  trial  of  measures  and  weights  and  all  other  things  which 
pertain  to  the  office  of  the  market,  and  the  profits  thereof  arising  in 
the  said  citv  and  suburb,  with  all  other  liberties  contained  in 
the  charters' of  the  king  and  his  forefathers,  Oliver  de  Barton 
constable  of  Lincoln  castle  and  his  ministers,  and  the  said  Oliver's 
predecessors  from  the  23rd  year  of  the  reign  have  by  colour  of  their 
office  and  by  power  taken  away  and  do  \-t  daily  take  away  from  the 
b  lid  citizens'all  tin-  aforesaid  powers,  taking  to  them  the  profits  the] 
arising,  save  the  returns  of  writs,  levies  of  green  wax,  cognisano 
pleas  of  land,  assizes  of  fresh  force,  writs  of  right  and  of  proofs  of 
be  tamente  concerning  lands  therein  devised  in  the  bailey,  of  which 
liberties  the  said  citizens  are  and  have  ever  heretofore  been 
since  the  date  of  the  Baid  charters  and  confirmations,  and  that  when 
the  Baid  constable  and  his  pick.  used  of  old  tune  to  hold  only 

a  court  baron  at  the  castle  gate  every  three  weeks,  takin  ace 

of  debts  not  exceeding   in,,  and  that  only  of  men   n    iding  within  the 


262  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  \%d — cont. 

bailey  of  Lincoln,  and  not  attaching  any  man  by  his  body  at  the  suit 
of  any  plaintiff  nor  imprisoning  any,  the  said  Oliver,  his  ministers 
and  their  predecessors  have  drawn  to  them  in  the  said  courts,  which 
the}-  now  hold  every  eight  days,  and  have  usurped  pleas  of  debt  of  what- 
soever sum  as  well  of  men  not  residing  within  the  said  bailey  as  of  those 
residing  therein,  do  take  by  their  bodies  defendants  in  pleas  of  trespass, 
and  unlawfully  take  away  from  the  said  citizens  attachments,  fines  and 
amercements  pertaining  to  the  office  of  the  market,  chattels  of  felons 
and  fugitives,  and  all  other  profits  which  the  citizens  used  to  take 
within  the  bailej'  aforesaid,  which  is  the  third  part  of  the  city  and  was 
the  beginning  thereof,  to  the  grievous  damage  of  the  citizens,  contrary 
to  the  said  charters,  and  to  the  diminution  of  the  king's  farm  ;  and 
that  it  is  likewise  presented  that,  whereas  the  king  and  his  forefathers 
granted  to  the  citizens  of  Lincoln  a  fair  (feriam)  to  be  holden  in  Neuport 
street  in  the  suburb  of  Lincoln  and  not  elsewhere  from  the  feast  of 
St.  Botolph  to  that  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul  and  for  thirteen  days 
following,  the  said  constable  and  his  ministers  have  for  sixteen  years 
past  until  now  at  the  time  of  the  fair  drawn  to  them  stallage  within 
the  bailey,  which  is  without  the  bounds  of  the  fair  (nundinarum),  that 
whereas  on  Sundays  and  feast  days  no  market  used  to  be  held  in  any 
place  of  the  said  city  or  suburb  in  the  autumn  season  and  no  hiring 
of  reapers  or  servants  save  at  Neuport  cross  only,  the  said  Oliver  and 
his  ministers  do  all  the  autumn  season  draw  to  them  at  the  bailey  such 
markets  and  hirings  of  servants,  taking  stallage  and  other  profits 
thereof,  whereby  the  citizens  have  for  that  time  wholly  lost  all  profits 
thereof  arising,  and  reapers,  workmen  and  servants  are  more  dearly 
hired  for  that  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  are  by  the  said  constable  and 
ministers  hindered  from  chastisement  thereof,  to  the  damage  of  the 
citizens,  the  diminution  of  the  king's  farm,  and  the  oppression  and 
impoverishment  of  the  people  of  the  said  city  and  country  hiring  reapers, 
servants  and  workmen  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  John  duke  of  Lancastre 
the  king  is  informed  that  he  ought  to  have  the  office  of  constable  of 
Lincoln  castle  and  all  and  singular  the  liberties,  quittances  and  customs 
aforesaid  so  presented,  and  that  although  he  and  all  his  ancestors 
used  to  have  such  liberties,  quittances  and  customs  within  the  bailey 
of  the  said  city,  and  used  to  exercise  the  same  by  the  constable  of  the 
said  castle  and  his  ministers  time  out  of  mind,  the  said  Oliver  being 
constable  thereof,  who  is  by  the  duke  deputed  to  exercise  the  same 
by  virtue  of  his  office,  is  attached  before  the  said  justices  by  reason 
of  the  presentments  aforesaid,  and  unduly  troubled  and  hindered, 
wherefore  on  behalf  of  the  duke  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  a 
stay,  seeing  that  in  his  absence  all  the  memoranda  and  evidences 
in  regard  to  his  right  herein  are  shut  up  in  the  duke's  treasury,  so  that 
in  his  absence  his  attorneys  may  not  without  them  conveniently 
shew  and  declare  the  same  ;  and  in  consideration  that  the  said  duke 
has  at  the  king's  command  journeyed  over  sea  for  furtherance  of  the 
business  of  the  realm,  it  is  the  king's  will  that  he  be  not  prejudiced 
touching  his  right  while  he  shall  so  stand  without  the  realm. 

Nov.  7.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland.     Order,  if  Adam  de  Shortrigge  and 

Westminster.  Adam  son  of  John  de  Dronnok  be  not  yet  convicted  of  the  felonies 

hereinafter  mentioned,  if  Adam  Hocchebeger  be  of  good  fame  and 

imprisoned  for  consenting  and  abetting  in  those  felonies  and  for  no 

other  cause,  and  if  he  shall  find  mainpernors  who  will  mainpern  to 


49  EDWAUl)  III.  263 


1375.  Membrane  16d — cent. 

have  him  before  the  king's  Justices  at  the  king's  command  to  stand 
to  right  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England  in  case  the  king 
or  any  other  will  take  up  a  cause  against  him  after  the  said  prinoip 
shall  be  convicted,  to  set  him  free  by  such  mainprise  according  to 
the  statute,  bringing  before  the  justices  the  mainpernors'  name-  and 
this  writ  ;  as  on  his  behalf  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  by  certain  his 
enemies  he  is  indicted  for  consenting  and  abetting  in  certain  felonies 
[committed]  by  the  said  principals,  who  are  not  yet  oonvioted  of  the 
same,  and  is  for  that  cause  taken  and  imprisoned  in  the  gaol  of  Karliol 
castle,  and  that  although  he  has  many  times  offered  mainpernors  to 
mainpern  him  according  to  the  statute  published  at  Westminster, 
wherein  it  is  contained  that  men  indicted  for  so  consenting  and 
abetting  are  replevisable,  provided  they  be  of  good  fame,  until  the 
principals  be  convicted  of  such  felonies,  the  sheriff  has  hitherto  deferred 
and  does  yet  defer  to  receive  those  mainpernors  and  to  set  him  free 
from  the  said  gaol,  to  the  peril  of  his  life  and  contrary  to  the  statute. 

Nov.  6.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  without  delay  to  set  free  Nicholas 

Westminster.  Munroos,  John  de  Mar,  John  le  Lyle,  John  Keer,  Thomas  Geen,  John 
Richardesson,  William  Aleynesson,  Robert  Adamson,  William 
Henrysson,  William  Elysson  and  Adam  Jonesson  of  Scotland  from 
Neugate  prison,  if  detained  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and 
for  none  other  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  certify  in 
chancery  under  their  seals  the  cause  of  those  men's  arrest  and 
imprisonment,  and  the  sheriffs  returned  that  they  were  lately  arrested 
by  order  of  the  council,  upon  information  of  Nicholas  Potyn  searcher 
of  the  king's  forfeitures  in  the  river  Thames  and  the  port  of  London, 
for  an  alleged  robbery  of  wool  and  other  merchandise  by  them 
committed  at  sea  upon  William  Bokerell  of  Scotland  and  other 
merchants  ;  and  for  particular  causes  the  king's  will  is  that  the  said 
Scotsmen  be  no  longer  imprisoned  in  his  prison. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  Fitz  Simond,  brother  and  heir  of  Edward  Fitz 
Simond  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Richard  Lyouns 
citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Liston  oalled 
the  Netherhalle  and  the  advowson  of  Liston  church.  Witnesses  :  William 
Halden,  Robert  Hatfeld  aldermen  of  London,  Thomas  Maundeville 
and  Thomas  de  Hoo  knights,  John  Edenesore,  John  Boterwyk,  Thomas 
Santon.     Dated  London,  12  November  49  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  November. 

Membrane  I5d. 

Indenture  made  at  Meriet,  Monday  after  St.  Andrew  43  Edward  1 1  f , 
between  William  Gheyngny  the  esoheatoi  of  the  one  part,  the  ooonse] 

of  Sir  John  de  Meriet  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  de  Meriet  of  tin'  Beoond 
part,  and  Maud   who   was   wife  of  the  said   Sir  .John   the  elder  of   tho 

third  part,  witnessing  that  by  virtue  of  a  writ  to  him  addressed  the 
escheator  has  delivered  to  the  -aid  Sir  John  the  son.  late  in  the  kin 
wardship,  two  thirds  of  the  manor  ot  Meriet,  as  limited  by  metes  and 
bound-  and  by  assignments  of  tenant-,  with  the  advowson  of  the 
church  and  right  oi  presentation  thereto  when  void  tor  his  turn  to 
those  two  thud-  pertaining,  and  liberty  of  view-  of  frankpledge  and 
,,i  ,i||  profits  thereto  pertaining  to  \»  taken  upon  his  own  -ml  ami  of 
his    tenants    everywhere;    that    by     Virtue    <>1    another    writ    to     turn 


i2i»  l  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  15d — cont. 

addressed  the  escheator  has  delivered  in  dower  to  the  said  Maud  a 
third  part  of  the  said  manor,  limited  by  metes  and  bounds  as  well 
by  common  counsel  of  Sir  John  as  by  her  assent,  with  the  advowson 
of  the  church  and  the  presentation  thereto  when  void  for  her  turn 
to  her  third  part  pertaining,  and  liberty  of  view  of  frankpledge  and 
of  all  profits  as  aforesaid,  so  that  all  profits  arising  upon  the  highway 
or  the  public  street  be  divided  proportionally  between  the  said  John 
and  Maud,  and  be  pleaded  and  determined  in  the  court  of  him  or  her, 
being  the  first  comer,  by  whose  ministers  the  attachment  or  arrest 
shall  be  made.  Particulars  of  that  third  part  :  the  eastern  grange, 
the  byre  and  pigstj^e  by  the  high  chamber,  so  that  the  void  ground 
in  the  court  shall  be  for  an  easement  in  common  according  to  their 
portion,  the  eastern  part  of  the  garden  with  half  the  nursery  (de  la 
noresirie),  namely  the  northern  part,  a  third  part  of  the  park  on  the 
west,  a  third  part  of  '  Egwode  '  on  the  west  with  the  cleared  land 
(terra  jrisca)  thereto  adjacent  on  the  west,  a  third  part  of  the 
cleared  land  above  the  wood  enclosed  on  the  west  side,  14  acres 
of  meadow,  whereof  10  acres  in  the  Hampme  on  the  south  side 
and  4  acres  in  Elyngham  on  the  west  side,  a  third  part  of 
'  Flexlond  '  on  the  east  side,  a  third  part  of  one  cuUura  by  the 
'  Roughrewe  '  on  the  upper  side  by  '  Lanshiacre,'  a  third  part  of 
one  cultura  called  '  Roughrewe  '  on  the  east  side  by  '  Litellopene,' 
a  third  part  of  '  Annoteforlang  '  on  the  east  side,  a  third  part  of 
Wedeham  through  the  midst,  a  third  part  of  '  Wodeforlang  '  in  the 
longer  '  forlang  '  on  the  west  side,  a  third  part  of  the  same  cultura 
'  shiortelond  '  on  the  east  side,  a  third  part  in  the  Hulle  on  the  east 
side,  a  third  part  in  '  Collecroft  '  on  the  south  side,  a  third  part  of 
'  longelond  Basteheie  '  through  the  midst,  a  third  part  of  one  cultura 
called  '  Nyeacre  '  on  the  south  side,  a  third  part  of  the  '  Heftelond  ' 
on  the  east  side,  a  third  part  of  '  Copmoorforlang  '  on  the  west  side, 
a  third  part  at  '  Yaldelond  '  through  the  midst,  a  third  part  of 
'  Netheryalleworth  '  in  the  midst,  a  third  part  of  '  Overyalleworth  ' 
on  the  south  side,  a  third  part  in  '  Overecleyhulle  '  on  the  west  side, 
a  third  part  in  '  Nethercleihulle '  in  the  midst,  the  whole  cultura  of 
'  Nith[er]witeleie  '  with  2\  acres  of  '  Overewiteleie  '  on  the  west  side, 
a  third  part  of  '  Bokedol  '  by  the  church  on  the  west  side,  a  third  part 
of  '  Bokedol  '  by  the  highway  in  the  midst,  a  third  part  of  '  Bokedol 
in  Feslond  '  on  the  west  side ;  in  Berdone,  the  whole  cultura  called 
'  Hefdlond,'  a  third  part  of  Berdone  by  '  Caudwillake  '  by  the  '  asshe,' 
a  third  part  of  the  cleared  land  in  Berdone  on  the  east  side,  a  third 
part  of  the  cleared  land  there  on  the  north  side ;  the  rents  and  services, 
customs  and  works  of  William  Slade,  Amice  Uppehulle,  Robert 
Fromond,  Nicholas  Bonde,  Henry  Stilour,  Hugh  Stilord,  Adam  Tette, 
John  Lomb,  William  Eustacz  and  Robert  Stilord  Avhich  they  were 
used  to  do  for  their  lands  in  villenage,  also  of  John  Bourtour  for  lands 
in  villenage,  besides  that  he  or  any  tenant  thereof  shall  render  to 
Sir  John  20c?.  at  four  terms  in  the  year  and  I  Of  geese  at  the  Gule  of 
August,  and  no  other  works,  rents,  services  or  profits  arising  by  John 
Bourtour's  death,  also  of  lands  in  villenage  late  of  Roger  Niwman, 
besides  that  Sir  John  shall  take  of  the  said  Roger  or  the  tenant  thereof 
13Jd.  at  four  terms  of  the  year,  and  no  other  rents,  services  or  profits, 
also  the  rents  and  services  which  John  Hellew,  Nicholas  Degher  and 
John  Lond  used  to  do  for  lands  held  for  life  according  to  the  custom 
of   the   manor,   the   rents   and   services   arising   from   lands   at   the 


r.<  EDWARD  III. 


1375.  Membram    L5d — cmt. 

Blakehalle  now  held  by  Geoi  nd    V/.  <»f    yearly  rent 

from  1  acre  of  land  now  held  by  William  Virgene,  tl  .ml  -  i  \  i 

customs  and   works   which   Alexander    Briel,   Thomas    Trepel,   John 
StQord,  Philip  Bat,  Roger  Tette,  Philip  Smyth  and  Adam  Tette  m 

used  to  do  for  divers  lands  held  according  to  the  custom  <>f  the  man 
31s.  only  of  yearly  rent  arising  from  '  Lockesmille '  with  the 
land  adjacent  now  held  by  John  Ganoun  according  to  the  custom 
of  the  manor,  and  the  residue  of  the  rent  thereof  arising  Sir  John 
shall  yearly  take,  the  rents  and  services,  customs  and  works  which 
Nicholas  Lopeneford  used  to  do  for  lands  held  in  villenage,  besides 
that  Sir  John  de  Meriet  shall  yearly  take  thereof  7*.  1"  I.  at  four  terms 
of  the  year  and  no  other  profits  or  services,  also  ">{'/.  yearly  rent  arising 
from  land  of  *  overlond  '  held  by  William  Smyth    2  nd  one  thud 

of  one  halfpenny  of  yearly  rent  arising  from  land  of  *  overlond  '  held 
by  John  Hicke.  with  two  void  cottages  sometime  held  by  John  Hany 
and  Hugh  Trokel,  65.  8c?.  yearly  rent  paid  by  Is'  Pourtour.  3<.  4'/. 
by  Adam  Touker,  13^.  and  one  third  of  a  farthing  by  John  Alger, 
Qhl.  and  one  third  of  one  halfpenny  by  Thomas  Mariot,  for  divi 
lands  by  them  held  according  to  the  custom  of  the  manor,  and  the 
reversion  of  a  third  part  of  all  such  lands  after  their  death.  3*.  yearly 
rent  arising  of  3  acres  of  land  held  by  Hugh  Stilord,  3s.  Sd.  of  10 
of  land  held  by  John  Stilord,  lor/,  of  3$  acres  of  land  held  by  Maud 
Sokerel,   2s.  4rf.  of  divers  lands  held  by  John  Sokerel,  and   I5d.  of 
2\  acres  of  land  held  by  Jolm  Shynner,  as  dower  of  the  lands  of  Evo  de 
Gorleton  with  the  reversion  of  a  third  thereof  upon  the  death  of  the  said 
tenant-  :    a  third  part  of  the  cultura  of  '  Haukenesputte  '  on  the  w 
side,  a  third  part  of  a  cultura  above  '  Egwode  '  on  the  east  side,  a 
third  part  of  '  Cleihulle  '  by  '  Roughrewe  '  on  the  east  side,  a  third 
part  of  one  messuage  on  the  west  side,  a  third  part  of  the  pasta 
called  Below  'Egwode,'  'Sandwilleslake.'  ' Portweye,'  '  Egwodisdij 
'  Halewille,' '  Bosteheie,'  '  Flexlond,'  '  Watheldiehe.'  '  Brodenedodiche,' 
'Roughrowe,'    'Clowe,'    '  Tollecroft,'  and   Below    Berdone   or  of   the 
profits     thereof,    a    third    part    of    one    half    acre    at    '  Cleyputte,' 
5s.  4d.     yearly     rent    arising    from     1     acre    of     meadow     held     by 
John    Chynner,     1    acre    of     meadow     in    Elyngham     on    the    v. 
side   of    the    meadow  of    Ivo    de    Oarleton,    a    third    put    of    the 
pasture  of  'Tarstone'  on  the  north  side,  a  third  put  oi   '  SJopesmoor ' 
on    the    west    side,    and    a    third    part    of    the    profit     arising    from 
the    pasture    of    '  Slopeshulle  '     way.     so    that   a    third    part    of    the 
yearly    rent    arising    from   the  tenement   of   Christina    Wymoundale 
is  respited   until  it   shall   be  adjudged    by  common   counsel  of  the 
said    Sir    John    and    Maud    for    that    the    said    Christina    held   the 
same  for  life   before   the   marriage   of  Sir  John   de   Meriet  d. 
and  all  other  the  knights'  tecs  shall  remain  undivided  until   Bast 
next  in  order  that   in  the  mean  time  they  may  •  ><■  better  o 
thereof. 

[Xo  acknowledgment.'] 

Writing  of  John  Bek,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Clement  Spice,  John 
Bewale,  William  Wesl    John  Whitrik,  Thomas   Tauloui   and    Henry 
Doreward,  their  beira  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rente  and  sen 
in  the  town-  of  Bookynge,  Branketi      5     ted  and  Rewenhak  late  of 
John  de  Bockyng.     Dated  20  .M       •  '  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  aeknowlcdginent,  21   November. 


266  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  \5d — cont. 

Nov.  22.         Sampson  Hardyng    to    John    Cauchoun    parson    of    Thornton    in 
Westminster.  Lonesdale.     Recognisance  for  28  marks,  to  be  levied,  in   default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Northumberland. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Charter  of  John  Dounom,  cousin  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  John  de 
Raveneshohn  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Richard  Stury  knight, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Bernewelle  co. 
Norhampton,  with  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  the  suits  of 
free  men  and  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them,  and  the  reversions  of 
tenants  whatsoever  when  they  shall  fall  in.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de 
Preston  knight,  Simon  Ward,  William  Vavasour,  John  de  Bretton, 
Robert  Bray,  Peter  Skaldewelle,  John  Peverell.  Dated  Bernewelle, 
22  November  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  November. 

Writing  of  John  Dounom,  cousin  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  John  de 
Ravenesholm  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  appointing  Robert 
Bray  to  deliver  to  Richard  Stury  knight  seisin  of  a  moiety  of 
the  manor  of  Bernewelle  co.  Norhampton  according  to  his  charter 
thereof.     Dated  Bernewelle,  22  November  40  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  November. 

Nov.  22.         Thomas  de  Midilton  parson  of  Hakeney  to  John  Cauchoun  parson 
Westminster,  of  Thornton  in  Lonesdale.     Recognisance  for   191.    lis.   6d.,  to   be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Middlesex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  14tZ. 

Writing  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  William  Olneye  late  citizen  and 
fishmonger  of  London,  in  her  widowhood,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Adam  de  Berden  parson  of  St.  Mary  atte  Hulle  London, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Halewyk  co.  Middlesex  with 
the  appurtenances  as  in  lands,  houses,  rents,  woods,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  wards,  reliefs,  heriots,  marriages,  escheats,  suits  of  court, 
ways,  paths,  hedges,  ditches,  services,  rights,  customs  and  commodities 
whatsoever  thereto  belonging,  whereof  by  charter  of  feoffment,  bearing 
date  Sunday  the  feast  of  the  Annunciation  43  Edward  III,  her  said 
husband  and  she  enfeoffed  the  said  Adam.  Witnesses  :  Andrew 
Pykeman,  John  Beaufrount,  John  Stokyngbury,  William  Stoket, 
John  Salperton.     Dated  London,  23  October  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,    23  October. 

Deed  indented,  whereby  John  de  Aylesbury  knight  gives  to  Walter 
Knolle  and  Richard  Wantyngge  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly 
rent  of  20Z.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
of  his  manor  of  Tiscote  co.  Hertford,  and  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ; 
with  condition  for  defeasance  in  case  Roger  Coke  and  Thomas  Coke 
of  Guldeford,  who  were  villeins  regardant  to  his  manor  of  Abyngeworth 
co.  Surrey  by  him  enfranchised,  their  heirs  and  issue  in  time  to  come, 
shall  abide  in  peace  without  seizure  of  their  bodies,  chattels  or  goods, 
hindrance,  grievance  or  molestation,  and  without  being  put  to  trouble 


4<.»  EDWARD  III. 


1375. 


M<  mbrani  Hd — cont. 


or  expense  by  the  said  John  or  his  heirs  by  reason  of  raoh  villena 
Dated    Tiscote,    Saturday    the    eve    of    St.    Simon    and    St.    Jude 
49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  John,  27  October. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Walter  fit/.  Wantei  lord  tit/.  Wauter  of 
Wodeham  of  the  one  part  and  John  de  Kyngesfold  of  the  other  part, 

being  a  defeasance  as  well  of  a  yearly  rent  of  LOW.  to  be  taken  at 
Midsummer,  Michaelmas,  Christinas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  of 
his  manors  of  Burnham  and  Wodeham  Wautei'  do.  Essex  which  Sir 
Walter  granted  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs,  as  of  a  bond  in  400 
marks  by  Sir  Walter  made  to  the  said  John,  upon  condition  that 
Sir  Walter  or  some  other  in  his  name  shall  pay  to  the  said  John  or  his 
attorney  at  London  in  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul  40o/.  at 
Michaelmas  next  after  15  October  49  Edward  III  or  within  the 
quinzaine  thereof,  and  200  marks  at  Easter  following  or  within 
the  quinzaine  thereof  ;  reciting  a  former  indenture  of  defeasance  of  the 
said  rent  between  the  parties,  bearing  date  21  April  48  Edward  ill 
and  enrolled  in  chancery,  the  condition  whereof  was  that  Sir  Walter 
or  some  other  in  his  name  should  at  the  same  place  pay  to  the  said 
John  or  his  attorney  200  marks  at  Christinas  then  next  or  within  the 
quinzaine  thereof,  1001.  at  Michaelmas  following  or  within  the 
quinzaine  thereof,  1001.  at  Easter  following,  1(H)/.  at  Michaelmas 
following,  and  1001.  at  Easter  following.  Dated  London,  20  May 
48  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  27  October  this 
year. 

Oct.  28.  John  Corner  to  Hugh  de  Gaudeby  clerk.     Recognisance  for    40s., 

Westminster,  to   be  levied,  in   default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels   in 
Norfolk. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Oct.  29.  Nicholas   Fitz   Symond   of   Hertfordshire    to   Thomas    Maimdeville 

Westminster,  knight,  Thomas  de  Hoo  knight,  Clement  Spice  and  Robert   Rikdoun. 
Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Hertfordshire. 

Roger    de    Ledes    of    Yorkshire    to    John    Botiller    of    Brynkele. 
Recognisance  for  40  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Nov.  17.        John  del   Wyche  of  Stanes   to   Nicholas   abbot  of   Westminster. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Middlesex. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Eioheook   'shepherd,'  being  a  bond  to  R 
Manyngford  in    LOJ.   payable  at    [werne  Minstre  al   Christmas  next. 
Witnesses:     Edward    Payn,    Henry    Baret,    John    Antioohe,    John 
Plnmbere,    John     Prie.     Dated    5fwerne    aforesaid,    Sunday    before 
St.  Katherine  40  Edward    III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  November. 

Nov.  26.        John  St  racy  to  John  Fitcitun.     Reoo  toe  for  201.,  to  ba  levied, 

Westminster,  in  default  of  payment,  of  Ins  lands  and  chattela  m  Dorset. 


lY.S  calendar  of  close  rolls. 


13  7r>.  Membrane  14d — cont. 

Writing  of  John  West  of  Ayot  Laurence,  being  a  general  release 
to  Sir  Stephen  Coughtele  sometime  vicar  of  Horsham  of  all  actions 
real  and  personal  for  debt,  account,  trespass,  contract  or  other  matter 
to  this  date.  Dated  London,  Monday  after  St.  Katherine 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  November. 

Membrane  13d. 

Record  of  proceedings  before  the  king  and  council,  upon  an 
averment  made  by  John  de  Lancastre,  brother  of  Margaret  daughter 
and  heir  of  Nicholas  de  Layburne  who  is  deaf  and  dumb  from  her 
birth,  that  the  said  Margaret  is  by  William  de  Tunstall  and  Thomas 
de  Layburne  ofttimes  eloigned  in  divers  remote  parts,  sometimes 
in  Ireland  and  sometimes  in  other  parts,  so  that  she  nor  any 
of  her  friends  might  sue  for  right  of  her  heritage,  and  that  the  said 
Thomas  has  unlawfully  occupied  her  lands  to  his  own  use  in  the  mean 
time,  the  king  by  divers  writs  having  commanded  the  said  William 
and  Thomas  to  bring  or  send  the  said  Margaret  before  him  and  the 
council  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  in  the  49th  year 
of  his  reign.  At  which  day  the  said  William  and  Thomas  brought 
the  said  Margaret  thither  at  the  king's  command,  whereupon  the  said 
John  and  other  her  friends  on  the  mother's  side,  to  whom  her  heritage 
may  not  descend  it  is  said,  appearing  before  the  council,  craved  that 
the  wardship  as  well  of  the  said  Margaret  as  of  her  lands  should  be 
committed  to  her  mother  ;  and  thereupon  as  to  the  cause  against  him 
as  well  for  eloigning  the  said  Margaret  as  for  occupying  her  lands, 
the  said  Thomas  alleged  that  he  was  the  true  tenant  of  those  lands 
by  virtue  of  a  feoffment  thereof  to  him  made  by  the  said  Margaret ; 
and  because  by  examination  and  otherwise  it  was  before  the  council 
truly  found  that  she  is  deaf  and  dumb  from  her  birth  so  that  she 
might  not  make  any  estate  of  the  said  lands  to  any  man,  it  was 
determined  that  the  said  alleged  feoffment  should  be  annulled,  that 
the  charter  of  feoffment  should  be  given  up  to  the  court  to  be  cancelled, 
and  that  as  well  the  said  Thomas  for  his  false  dealing  as  William  de 
Tunstall  for  his  assent  thereto  should  upon  their  confession  be 
committed  to  the  Fleet  prison  there  to  await  the  lung's  grace,  who  were 
after  set  free,  the  said  Thomas  for  a  fine  of  40s.  and  the  said  William 
for  a  fine  of  one  mark  paid  in  the  hanaper  of  chancery  ;  and  thereupon 
willing  to  make  provision  as  well  for  the  good  and  sure  ruling  of  the  said 
Margaret  as  for  the  safeguard  of  her  lands  to  her  use,  the  king  by  advice 
of  the  council  committed  the  wardship  of  her  and  her  lands  to  Th.  bishop 
of  Karliol  and  Roger  lord  de  Clifford,  so  that  they  should  take  order 
and  depute  some  true  and  sufficient  man  being  sworn,  not  suspect  on 
any  side,  for  whom  they  would  answer,  to  have  the  wardship  and  ruling 
of  her  body  and  lands  to  her  use  and  maintenance  by  oversight  of  the 
said  bishop  and  Roger,  so  that  he  whom  they  should  appoint  should 
safely  and  honestly  guard  and  keep  her  inviolate,  and  that  she  should 
not  be  married  to  any  man  without  the  assent  and  good  will  of  her 
next  friends  and  the  appointment  of  the  said  bishop  and  Roger,  nor 
be  in  anywise  disparaged,  and  that  her  lands  should  be  kept  without 
waste,  and  the  profits  thereof  truly  applied  for  her  maintenance  and 
good  ruling  and  for  repair  of  the  houses  ;  and  the  said  Margaret  was 
in  court  delivered  to  the  said  William  de  Tunstall  and  John  de 
Lancastre  to  be  delivered  over  to  the  said  bishop  and  Roger,  order 


49  EDWARD  ITT.  260 


1375.  Membrane   13d — conl. 

being  given  to  the  said  Thomas  to  restore  to  the  said  Mr  ;,er 

lands  without  delay,  and  a  day  was  given  him  in  the  octaves  of  v'. 
Hilary  next  to  send  the  said  oharter  of  Feoffment  to  the  oourt  to  be 

cancelled. 

Oct.  10.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Perot 

Westminster.  John  Fayrher,  Thomas  Whytchirch  and  Thomas  Brunham  of  the 
city  of  London  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  knur's 
writ  ordering  the  sheriffs  to  cause  John  Walsh  of  London  '  goldsmvth  ' 
and  Nicholas  Thame  of  London  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel 
the  said  John  Walsh  and  Nicholas  to  find  securities,  under  a  set  pain 
for  which  the  sheriffs  would  answer,  that  they  should  not  do  or  procure 
any  hurt  or  harm  to  John  Tycul  of  London  '  bocher'  ;  as  that  writ 
issued  upon  the  petition  of  John  Tycul,  shewing  that  the  said  John 
Walsh  and  Nicholas  grievously  threatened  him  ;  but  the  said  William 
and  the  others  have  mainperned  hi  chancery  as  aforesaid  under  a 
pain  of  20£. 

Nov.  3.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  taking 

Westminster,  of  the  body  of  Walter  atte  Lee  ;    as  appearing  in  person  in  chancery 
he  has  found  security  that  he  shall  not  attempt  or  cause  to  be  attempted 
aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  people  or  t 
breach  of  the  peace. 

Oct.  29.  To  H.  bishop  of  Worcester.  Order  to  grant  to  Thomas  de 
tminster.  Maddynglee  the  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension  as  shall  befit  the 
giver  and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  him,  making  him  thereupon 
letters  patent  under  the  bishop's  seal,  and  writing  again  to  the  kin^ 
without  delay  what  he  will  do  ;  as  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the 
bishop  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  ta- 
king's nomination  until  provision  of  a  benefice  shall  by  the  bishop 
be  made  him  ;  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Thomas,  wl 
advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [30741.] 

Oct.  23.         The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  abbess  and  convent  of  Wherewell, 
Westminster,  in  favour  of  William  Daune  clerk.  By  p.s.  [30733.] 

Nov.  3.         John  Mahcu  is  sent  to  the  abbol  and  convent  of  Gloucestre,  to  have 

Westminster,  such  maintenance  in  that  abbey  as  Peter  de  Bruges  in  his  life  time 
had.  By  p.s.  [30746.] 

Writing  of  Benryde  Burton  citizen  of  London,  giving  with  warranty 
to  John  Beaufronl  citizen  and  woolmonger  of  London,  Thomas  I 
of  Canterbury  and  .John  Beaufronl  of  the  same,  their  executors  and 

ill  his  corn  sown  and  not   .-own.  and  all  other  his  moveable 

good-  and   chattels   whatsoever  quick   and   dead   in    London  and    K 

or  elsewhere  in  England,  to  dispose  thereof  as  of  their  own.     Dated 
London.  !>  November  19  Edward  111. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  November. 

Writing  <>f  John  Joous,  administrator  of  the  goods  and  chattels  of 
Walter  Buwel  knight  deceased  b}  commission  of  the  prior  of  the 
cathedra]  church  of  Worcester  being  the  official  and  administrator 
of  the  spiritualities  in  the  city  and  die  '  during  the 


270  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  I'M — cont. . 

vacancy  of  the  see  deputed  by  authority  of  the  court  of  Canterbury, 
releasing  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  all  sums  of  money  due  to  the  said 
Walter  in  consideration  of  a  pardon  which  the  king  of  his  favour  has 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  Walter,  his  heirs  and  executors 
and  to  them  that  occupy  and  administer  his  goods,  of  all  debts,  accounts, 
prests,  farms,  arrears  of  farms,  arms,  armour,  goods  and  chattels  and 
sums  of  money  of  the  king  or  others  received  by  the  said  Walter  or 
by  any  other  in  his  name  for  which  the  said  Walter  ought  to  be  charged 
toward  the  king.  Dated  London,  Tuesday  the  feast  of  St.  Edmund 
King  and  Martyr  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  November. 

Letter  of  administration  above  mentioned,  of  the  goods  of 
Walter  Huwet  knight,  granted  by  the  prior  of  Worcester  official  etc. 
(as  above)  to  Sir  John  Jocus  priest,  the  administrator  appointed  by  the 
said  prior  of  his  office,  the  executors  named  in  the  testament  of  the 
deceased  renouncing  such  administration,  he  being  sworn  in  form  of 
law  to  make  a  true  inventory  of  the  said  goods,  truly  to  pay  the  debts 
of  the  deceased  to  his  creditors  whatsoever  and  especially  to  the  king 
whose  debtor  he  is  it  is  said,  and  otherwise  to  administer  the  same 
as  is  fitting  to  be  done,  rendering  a  true  account  of  the  same  when 
required.     Dated  Worcester,  14  January  1373. 

Memorandum  that  the  above  writing  and  letter  of  administration 
were  delivered  to  Robert  de  Asshton  the  treasurer,  27  November  this 
year,  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury. 

Membrane  I2d. 

Nov.  5.  Brother  John  Dodford  prior  of  St.  Erideswide  Oxford,  for  himself 

Westminster,  and  the  convent,  to  Richard  de  Ravensere  clerk  of  the  hanaper  of 

chancery.     Recognisance  for  40  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 

payment,    of    their   lands   and    chattels   and   ecclesiastical   goods   in 

Oxfordshire. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  said  prior  pay  20  marks 
in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

John  Cyfrewast  knight  to  Richard  Eorster  of  Staunton  seint  Johan 
co.  Oxford.  Recognisance  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  as  above 
(sic). 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  William  Stoket  of  Chelchith,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Thomas  Bykemerssh,  John  Oxton,  John  Bathele  and 
Maurell  Frankeleyn,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  cottage  with  curtilage 
adjacent,  5  acres  3  roods  of  arable  land  in  the  town  and  territory  of 
Chelchith  which  he  the  said  William  lately  had  by  gift  and  feoffment 
of  John  son  of  John  Blake  of  the  same.  Witnesses  :  William  Multon, 
William  Est,  John  Passour.  Richard  Est.  Dated  Chelcheth, 
6  November  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  6  November. 

Writing  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Waresius  de  Valoigns  knight, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  John  de  Cobeham  knight  lord  of  Cobeham,  Robert 
Belknap  knight,  Nicholas  de  Carreu  and  John  de  Frenyngham,  their 


49  EDWARD  III.  271 


1375.  Membrane  l2d~-cont. 

heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Hoo  in  the  parish  of  Stoke  and 
Mayhamnie   co.    Kent   and    all   other    land-,    tea  farms, 

reversions  and  liberties  in  Kent  which  they  had  and  now  possess  by 
gift  and  feoffment  of  William  Pympe  knight  and  which  were  of  Thomas 
de  Mai. ■in. -vns  knight.  Witnesses:  William  Topclyvt  I  tea  de 
Pekham,  John  Colepepcr.  Stephen  de  Norton,  Simon  Jakyn.  Dated 
Otham,  8  October  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Otham  co.  Kent  4  November, 
before  William  de  Topclyve  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dediti 
potestatem,  which  is  on  the  files  for  this  year. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Bourton  parson  of  Southwokvndon,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  Cheyne  knight,  Engelram 
Bruyn  and  Giles  atte  Grove,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  tenements 
which  the  said  parson  had  in  the  parish  of  St.  Michael  Paternoeter- 
chirche  London,  and  by  writing  indented  for  a  sum  of  money  in  hand 
to  him  paid  demised  and  to  farm  let  to  the  said  Thomas,  Ingelram 
and  Giles  and  to  their  assigns  for  six  years,  the  same  being  parcel 
of  the  purparty  of  lands  in  London  which  descended  after  the  death 
of  Richard  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Lacer  citizen  of  London 
to  Dame  Alice  wife  of  Sir  Robert  de  Marny  knight  and  sometime 
wife  of  Sir  William  Bruyn  knight,  being  daughter  and  one 
of  the  heirs  of  the  said  Richard  the  father  ;  reciting  a  charter  of 
feoffment  of  the  whole  of  her  said  purparty  by  the  said  Alice  in 
her  widowhood  lately  made  to  the  said  parson,  John  Mareys 
chaplain  and  Philip  atte  Bregge,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  and 
a  quitclaim  thereof  after  made  by  the  said  John  Mareys  and  Philip 
to  him  the  said  parson,  his  heirs  and  assigns.  Dated  Southwokyndon, 
7  November  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
9  November. 

Nov.  14.         Nicholas  fitz  Symond,  brother  and  heir  of  Edward    fitz    Symond 
Westminster,  knight,  to  Thomas  Manndeville  knight  and  Robert  Rikdoun  of  Essex. 
Recognisance  for  500/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Thomas. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de  Hupton  late  citizen  and  diaper 
of  London,  being  a  release  to  John  de  Everdon  clerk  and  Robert  bis 
brother  of  all  net  ion-  real  and  personal.  Witnesses  :  Johnde  Wardon 
clerk,  Walter  Knolles,  Robert  de  Cherleton,  Roberl  de  Warrewyk, 
Robert  Boys,  Gilbert  de  Sutton.  Dated  Westminster,  the  morrow  of 
St.  Martin'  L9  Edward  III. 

M<  morandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  November. 

Writing  of  John  Stoklond,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Ivo  Pitzwaryn  knight  and  to  bis  heirs  of  all  lands  etc.  in  Lidelynche 
Baret  now  held   by   the  said   [vo.     Witn<  Roberl    Pits   Payn, 

Alan  Cheyne  knights,  John  Mautravers,  William  Latvmer,  John 
GlaumviUe,  Roger  Dore,  Thomas  Knoyel,  Roger  Gulden.  Dated 
Sbirborne,  Mbndaj  before  Easter  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  Novemb 


272  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  12c? — cont. 

Writing  of  Katherine  de  la  Pole,  daughter  and  one  of  the  heirs  of 
Richard  de  Laceer,  giving  with  warranty  to  Walter  Walsche  the  king's 
esquire  (seutifcro),  Richard  Parker,  Gilbert  Neel  clerks  and  Peter 
Turk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  her  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the 
town  and  suburb  of  London  which  she  has  of  her  heritage  after  the 
decease  of  her  said  father,  under  condition  that  they  be  bound  to  deal 
with  the  premises  according  to  her  will  as  contained  in  certain 
indentures  made  between  the  parties.  Witnesses  :  John  Swyfte, 
Clement  de  Dolvoryn,  Henry  Astelyn,  Ralph  Cherman,  John  Renter. 
Dated  London,  Monday  before  Ascension  day  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  November. 

Writing  of  Richard  de  Totesham  knight  of  Kent,  being  a  release 
to  the  king  of  all  sums  of  money  and  other  property  whatsoever  wherein 
the  king  is  bound  to  him  for  any  cause  arising  before  this  date.  Dated 
Westminster,  Monday  the  morrow  of  St.  Katherine  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  November. 

Memorandum  {in  margin)  that  on  27  November  this  writing 
was  delivered  to  Robert  de  Assheton  the  treasurer  to  be  kept  in  the 
treasury. 

Membrane  \\d. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  William  Botreaux  knight  of  the  one  part, 
and  Sir  Roger  de  Fulthorp  knight,  Richard  de  Wandesford  citizen  and 
mercer  of  London  and  John  de  Kyllynghale  of  the  other  part,  witnessing 
a  gift  made  with  bond  for  warranty  by  Sir  William  to  the  said  Sir 
Roger,  Richard  and  John,  their  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever,  of  the 
manor  and  town  of  Lound  upon  the  Walde  co.  York  with  the 
appurtenances  in  demesne  and  in  service  under  the  condition  following, 
rendering  to  Sir  William,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  one  rose  yearly 
at  Midsummer  in  the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul  London  during  the 
term  of  eight  years  next  following  and  after  that  term  1,000?.  yearly 
of  silver  or  gold  in  the  said  church  at  the  feast  of  St.  Stephen  on  the 
morrow  of  Christmas,  and  further  paying  yearly  81.  10<s.  6d.  between 
three  parceners  according  to  the  purparty  made  between  them  and 
the  wile  of  Sir  William  as  parceners  of  the  heritage  of  Sir  Thomas 
Twenge,  and  bearing  the  rents  and  charges  thereof  due  to  the 
chief  lords  of  the  fee  ;  and  if  the  rent  of  1,000?.  be  unpaid  after  the 
said  term,  or  if  the  said  Sir  Roger,  Richard  and  John  pay  not  300 
marks  to  the  said  Sir  William  or  his  executors  at  the  quinzaine  of 
St.  Hilary  next  before  noon  in  the  said  church,  it  shall  be  lawful  for 
him  and  his  heirs  to  enter  again  and  hold  the  said  manor  and  town 
in  his  former  estate,  and  if  after  the  said  term  of  eight  years  such  entry 
be  made  in  default  of  payment,  the  said  Sir  Roger,  Richard  and  John, 
their  heirs  and  executors,  shall  be  discharged  of  all  arrears  of  the 
said  rent  before  such  entry.  Dated  London,  Saturday  the  eve  of 
St.  Katherine  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  William,  Roger  and 
Richard,  29  November. 

Writing  of  William  Botreaux  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
appointing  John  de  Feryby,  Ralph  de  Lound,  Thomas  Rades,  William 
Lambard,  Roger  atte  Kirke  of  Brantyngham  and  William  Ingilby 
to  deliver  to  Sir  Roger  de  Fulthorp,  Richard  de  Wandesford  citizen 


49  EDWARD  III.  273 


1375.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

and  mercer  of  London  and  John  de  Kelyngale  seisin  of  the  manor  and 
town  of  Lond  upon  the  Walde  oo.  fork,  according  to  an  indenture 
between  the  parties.     Dated  London.  Thursday  ti.  f  St.  Aiulrew 

49  Edward  III.     French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2!t  November. 

Writing  of  John  Colley  of  Dale,  cousin  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Thomas 
Malmevns  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Cobeham 
knight  lord  of  Cobeham.  Robert  Belknap  knight  and  Nicholas  de 
Carreu,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Hoo  in  the  parish  of 
Stoke  and  the  manor  of  Mayhamme  co.  Kent,  and  of  all  other  lands, 
rents,  services,  farms,  reversions  and  liberties  in  Kent  late  of  the  said 
Thomas  Malmeyns  which  the  said  John  de  Cobeham,  Robert  and 
Nicholas  had  and  now  possess  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  Pympe. 
Witnesses  :  William  Topclyve,  James  de  Pekham,  John  Colepeper, 
Stephen  de  Norton,  Simon  Jakvn.  Dated  Stoke,  1  December 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  December. 

Dec.  3.  To  the  steward  and  marshals  of  the  king's  household.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  altogether  the  further  holding  before  them  in  the  marshalsea  court 
of  the  plea  hereinafter  mentioned  while  a  plea  between  Richard 
Broun  of  Suthwerk  and  John  atte  (licit  of  Surrey  for  a  debt  of  48 
marks  upon  a  bond  is  pending  without  debate  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  ;  as  the  said  John  in  his  pleading  has  produced  a  defeasance 
of  the  said  bond,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  or  another  in  his 
name  should  pay  24  marks  to  Thomas  Fynche  or  Joan  his  \\  ife,  alleging 
further  a  receipt  of  the  said  Thomas  and  Joan  for  that  sum.  likewise 
produced,  which  defeasance  remaining  in  the  hands  of  the  court 
the  said  Richard  has  altogether  gainsaid,  wherefore  by  writ  <U  indicia 
the  king  has  ordered  the  sheriffs  of  London  to  cause  twelve  free  and 
lawful  men  to  come  before  the  said  justices  to  recognise  whether  the 
said  defeasance  be  the  deed  of  the  said  Richard  or  no.  and  that  jury 
is  respited  to  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next,  as  the  kin-  is  assured 
by  the  tenor  of  the  process  of  that  cause  which  he  has  caused  to  come 
before  him  in  chancery  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  John  complaint 
is  made  to  the  king  that  the  said  Richard  is  unlawfully  impleading 
the  said  John  in  the  marshalsea  court  for  the  said  debt  due  upon  the 
said  bond,  although  the  plea  before  the  said  justices  is  pending  as 
aforesaid,  praying  for  remedy. 

Dec.  3.  To  W.  bishop  of   London.     Order  to  grant    to    Rogea    I'  tesoroft 

\\<  bminster.  the  king's  clerk  such  ;>  yearly  pension  as  shall  befit  the  given  and 

should  hind  the  receiver  to  him.  making  him  thereupon  letters  patent 

under   the   chapter   («C)   seal,   and    writing   again    to   the   king   without 
delay  what   he  will  do  ;    as  the  bishop  by  reason  of  his  new   creation  i- 
bound    in    such    a     pension    '"    <>ue    of    the    king'fi    clerks    at    the    km 
nomination   until  provision  of  a   benefice  -k.dl   by  the  bishop  he  made 

him  ;  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Roger,  whose  advancement 
he  ha-  at   heart.  By  p*  [30808.] 

Dec.  5.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.      Order  by  mainprise  of  William  de  Ih.lm 

Westminster,  of  Yorkshire  and  Oliver  Robert  of  Norffolk  to  stay  the  execution  of 
a  writ  of  exigent  insl  John  de  Grvmesby  of  Hulk-,  brii  this 

□a  18 


274  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  \\d — cont. 

writ  before  the  king  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriffs  to  put  the  said  John  in  exigents  from  husting  to  husting 
until  outlawed  if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take 
him  and  keep  him  in  prison  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  body 
before  the  king  fifteen  days  after  Easter  to  answer  John  Botiller  on 
a  pica  wherefore  by  force  of  arms  he  ravished  Agnes  wife  of  the  plaintiff 
at  London,  took  her  away  with  goods  and  chattels  of  her  husband, 
and  is  yet  detaining  the  same  it  is  said  ;  and  the  said  defendant  has 
petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  plaintiff 
concerning  that  trespass,  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  William  and  Oliver,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  402.  to  have  the  defendant  before  the  king 
at  the  day  named. 

Writing  of  John  de  Burton  citizen  and  chandler  of  London,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Thorp  by  Cherteseye  the  younger 
and  Felicia  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  John  de  Thorp  of  all 
lands,  rents  and  services,  woods,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc. 
now  held  by  the  said  John  de  Thorp  and  Felicia  in  the  town  and  parish 
of  Cherteseye  and  Stevyngton  which  were  sometime  of  Gilbert  de 
Burton  and  were  by  an  assize  at  Gildeford  co.  Surrey  recovered  by 
him  the  said  John  de  Burton  against  Henry  Spondon,  Philip 
Brampton  and  Alice  his  wife,  Richard  Burton  and  John  Lynde.  Dated 
London,  the  feast  of  St.  Lucy  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  December. 

Dec.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Fuller  of 

Westminster.  Elnestowe,  William  Pilton,  John  Sherman  of  '  Flestrete  '  and  Walter 
Bocher  of  Elnestowe  of  the  city  of  London  to  set  free  John  Wardale 
(Werdale),  John  Caynowe,  William  Brenyf ,  William  Haul,  John  Flesshe- 
were,  John  Barton  and  Eustace  Dufson  from  prison,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  king  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  take  the  said  prisoners,  if  found  in  his  bailiwick,  and  keep 
them  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  their  bodies  before  the  king  in  the 
octaves  of  St.  Hilary  to  answer  the  abbess  of  Elnestowe  concerning 
an  alleged  trespass  ;  and  they  have  petitioned  the  king  to  be  set  free, 
as  they  are  ready  to  answer  her  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ; 
and  the  said  John  Fuller  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery 
under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  the  prisoners  before  the  king  at  the  day 
named. 

Membrane  lOd. 

Indenture  made  between  Walter  Filz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham 
of  the  one  part  and  Edmund  Lorence,  Thomas  Thelewall  clerk  and 
John  Bretby  clerk  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  a  gift  made  by  the  said 
Walter  with  warranty  to  the  said  Edmund  Thomas  and  John,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  his  castle  of  Egremond  with  all  knights'  fees, 
advowsons  etc.  thereto  belonging,  and  all  other  lands,  rents,  services 
and  commodities  whatsoever  which  he  has  in  Cumberland,  with 
covenant  for  defeasance  of  that  gift  upon  condition  that  the  said 
Walter  or  his  heirs  or  some  other  in  their  name  shall  pay  1,000£.  to 
the  said  Edmund,  Thomas  and  John,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  in  the 


49  EDWARD  ITT.  275 


137.").  Membrane  \0d — ami. 

church  of  St.  Paul  London  on  the  feast  of  \ll  Saint-  L386.  Dated 
London.  4  November  49  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  •"»  Deoember. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Walter  Filz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham 
of  the  one  part  and   Edmund  Lorenoe,  Thomas  Thelwall  olerk  and 

John  Bret  by  clerk  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  that  whereas  the  said 
Walter  has  by  indenture  given  to  the  said  Kdimmd.  Thomas  and  John, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  castle  of  Egremound  co.  Cumberland  and 
all  lands  ete.  thereto  pertaining  which  he  had  in  that  county,  with  a 
covenant  for  defeasance  upon  payment  to  them  of  1,000/.  in  the  church 
of  St.  Paul  London  at  All  Saints  1385,  the  said  Edmund,  Thomas  and 
John  hereby  covenant  that  they  will  commit  no  waste  of  lands,  boui 
woods  or  gardens,  no  destruction  of  men  tree  or  bond,  and  no  other 
matter  to  the  said  castle  and  lands  from  this  date  to  the  feast  aforesaid 
save  that  it  shall  be  lawful  for  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  to  mine 
and  work  iron  (de  fouer  ouere  de  fer)  reasonably  and  not  otherwise, 
and  to  cut  wood  to  burn  for  the  purpose  (ri<  coper  boys  <>  <ml' r  les 
(litz  ouere  et  fer);  and  the  said  Walter  that  he  all  his  life,  his  heirs  and 
executors,  shall  make  no  alienation  of  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof 
to  any  but  to  the  said  Edmund.  Thomas  and  -John  or  to  others  with 
their  consent,  provided  that  within  a  year  after  he  shall  have  offered 
the  premises  for  sale  they  or  their  nominees  will  give  him  so  much 
for  the  premises  as  will  others  without  fraud  or  covin;  and  if  the 
said  sum  be  paid  as  aforesaid,  and  the  said  Walter  will  after  bargain 
or  sell  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof,  and  the  said  Edmund,  Thomas 
and  John  or  their  nominees  will  not  within  the  year  give  so  much  as 
will  others  without  fraud  or  covin,  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  Walter 
to  make  such  bargain  or  sale  at  his  pleasure,  this  indenture 
notwithstanding.  Dated  London,  li  November  4!>  Edward  111. 
Frenc/i . 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment   by  the  parties,  •">  December. 

Writing  of  Walter  filz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham,  being  a  letter  of 
attorney  appointing  William  Martyn  parson  of  Little  Halyngbury  and 
Nicholas  Broghton  to  deliver  to  Edmund  Lorence,  Thomas  Thelwal! 
clerk  and  John  Bretby  clerk  seisin  of  Egremont  castle  with  all  knights' 
fees,  advowBons  etc.  thereto  belonging  and  of  all  other  his  lands  etc. 

in    Cumberland    according    to    an     indenture     between     them     made. 

Dated  London,  4  November  t9  Edward   ML 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  :>  December. 

Writ  in-  Of   Walter  filz  Wauter  lord   of   Wodeham.   being  a   letter  of 

attorney  oppointing  John  Wyndesore,  John  le  Boteler,  Hugh  de 
Moresby  at,. I  .John  Arnays  to  deliver  to  Edmund  Lorenoe,  Thomas 
Thelewal  clerk  and  John  Bretbj  clerk  seisin  i  mont  oastle  with 

all  knights'  fees  and  advowsons,  and  all  other  lands,  rents    services 

and     commodities     whatsoever     which     he     the     said     Walter     had     in 

Cumberland    according  to  a   charter  indented   between  them  made. 
Dated  London,   l  November  49  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  oi  acknowledgment,  '■'<  December. 

Charter  of  Robert  Kelbi  parson  ot  Helpryngham  and  John  de 
Kyngesfolde,  granting  to  Kr  Walter  id/.  Wauter  lord  ol   Wodeham 


276  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  \0d — cont. 

and  Dame  Eleanor  his  wife,  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said 
Walter,  all  their  purparty  of  the  manor  of  Flete  late  of  Thomas  filz 
Wauter  knight,  all  their  purparty  of  the  manor  of  Multon  co.  Lincoln, 
all  their  inn  and  rent  in  London  in  the  Old  Jewry,  all  which  they 
lately  had  jointly  with  Thomas  late  bishop  of  Norwich,  Master  William 
Blvth  late  archdeacon  of  Norffolk  and  John  Willyngham  late  parson 
of  Great  Teyo  by  deed  of  feoffment  of  the  said  Walter  enrolled  in 
chancery  ;  and  if  the  said  Eleanor  shall  overlive  her  husband  it  shall 
be  lawful  for  her  to  make  waste  in  the  premises  at  pleasure.  Witnesses  : 
Thomas  Gyssyng  knight,  Walter  atte  Lee  knight,  Thomas  Maundevylle 
knight,  William  Walleworth,  John  Aubrey  of  London.  Dated  London, 
Thursday  the  eve  of  St.  Andrew  49  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  December. 

Writing  of  William  son  of  Walter  del  Isle,  giving  to  Robert  de 
Muskham  clerk  for  life,  for  his  good  service,  a  yearly  rent  of  20s.  to  be 
taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  said  William's 
moiety  of  the  manor  of  Pulbergh,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears. 
Dated  London,  6  December  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  December. 

Nov.  4.  To  John  atte  Wode  farmer  of  the  king's  hundred  of  Kyftesgate. 

Westminster.  Order  to  suffer  the  abbot  of  St.  Peter  Gloucestre  to  be  quit  of  making 
suit  to  the  said  hundred  by  reason  of  the  manor  of  Bukelond,  releasing 
any  distress  made  for  that  cause  ;  as  on  the  abbot's  behalf  it  is  shewn 
the  king  that  the  said  farmer  is  distraining  the  abbot,  pretending 
that  he  holds  the  said  manor  by  the  service  of  doing  suit  to  the  said 
hundred  every  three  weeks,  though  the  abbot  holds  the  same  in  frank 
almoin  without  doing  any  service  or  suit  to  the  king  for  the  same, 
as  is  plain  by  the  record  and  process  of  a  cause  in  the  king's  court 
in  the  30th  year  of  his  reign  before  Robert  de  Thorp  and  his  fellows 
justices  of  the  Bench,  which  the  king  has  caused  to  come  before  him 
in  chancery,  between  the  abbot  and  John  Musard  then  farmer  of  the 
said  hundred  and  John  de  Harlay  his  under  bailiff  concerning  neat 
beasts  of  the  abbot  taken  and  unlawfully  detained  for  making  suit 
to  the  said  hundred,  in  which  cause  for  that  it  was  found  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  before  Henry  de  Mutelowe  and  Hugh  de 
Aston  then  justices  of  assize  in  Gloucestershire,  that  the  abbot  held 
that  manor  as  aforesaid,  it  was  determined  that  thereby  the  abbot 
should  recover  damages  assessed  at  101.  and  that  the  said  John  Musard 
was  in  mercy,  wherefore  the  abbot  has  prayed  for  remedy. 

Membrane  9d. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Walter  filz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham 
and  Sir  Thomas  Gissynges  knights  and  John  de  Kyngesfold  of  the 
one  part  and  Nicholas  Rbunhay,  John  Buteller,  Thomas  del  Gille 
and  Hugh  de  Cotyngham  of  the  other  part,  being  the  defeasance  of 
a  statute  merchant  for  2,000  marks  by  the  first  parties  made  to  the 
second  parties  before  William  Walworth  mayor  of  the  staple  of 
Westminster  and  payable  at  the  Epiphany  next,  upon  condition  that  the 
said  Walter  shall  by  letter  under  his  seal  make  John  Wyndesor, 
John  le  Boteler,  Hugh  de  Moresby,  John  Arnays,  William  Martyn 
parson  of  Little  Halyngbury  and  Nicholas  Broghton  his  attorneys 
to  deliver  to   Edmund   Lorence,   Thomas  Thelwall  clerk  and  John 


49  EDWARD  III.  277 


1375.  Membrane  Vd — o 

Bretby  rink  seisin  of  ESgremound  castle  co.  Comberland  with  all  the 
saul  Walter's  lands  in  Comberland,  services  and  reversions  excepted, 
aoooiding  to  certain  indentures  made  between  the  said  Walter  and 
the  said  Edmund,  Thomas  ThelwaU  and  John  Bretby,  not  repealing 

BOOh  power  of  attorney  nor  disturbing  such  livery  of  seisin,  and  that 
the  said  Walter  shall  be  living  at  the  end  of  three  weeks  from  this 
date,  or  within  that  time  the  said  Edmund,  Thomas  ThelwaU  and 
John  Bretby  shall  in  his  life  time  have  Beisin  of  the  premises,  or  that 
if  the  said  Walter  die  within  three  weeks  and  no  such  livery  of  seisin 
be  made,  the  said  Walter,  his  heirs  and  executors  or  some  other  in 
their  name  shall  at  Christmas  next  or  within  twelve  days  thereof 
pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  to  the  said  second  parties  1,000  marks  in  the 
church  of  St.  Paul  London,  when  the  said  statute  shall  within  one 
month  be  given  up  to  Sir  Walter,  his  heirs  or  executors.  Dated 
London,  3  December  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  3  December. 

Indenture  tripartite  made  between  Sir  Walter  fitz  Wauter  lord  of 
Wodehani  of  the  one  part  and  Edmund  Lourence,  Thomas  de  Thelwale 
clerk,  John  de  Bretby  clerk,  Nicholas  Rounhay  clerk,  Geoffrey 
Newenton,  Hugh  de  Cotyngham,  John  Prentys  and  Thomas  del  Gille 
of  the  other  part,  being  the  defeasance  of  a  statute  merchant  for 
1,000  marks  by  the  said  Edmund,  Thomas  de  ThelwaU,  Nicholas, 
Geoffrey,  Hugh,  John  Prentys  and  Thomas  del  Gille  made  to  the 
said  Walter  before  the  mayor  of  the  staple  at  Westminster  payable 
three  weeks  after  Easter  next,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Edmund 
Thomas  de  ThelwaU  and  John  de  Bretby,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
shall  not  before  Easter  next  be  fully  enfeoffed  by  the  said  Walter 
of  Egermond  castle  and  all  the  said  Walter's  lands  in  Cumbreland, 
except  reversions  and  the  services  of  his  free  tenants  there  who  may 
not  be  constrained  to  attorn  tenants  to  such  feoffees,  or  that  the  said 
Edmund  and  the  others  so  bound  shall  at  Easter  next  or  within  three 
weeks  after  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  500  marks  to  the  said  Walter  or 
his  attorney  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London,  when  the  said  statute  shall 
within  one  month  be  given  up  to  them  :  and  covenant  that  for  ten  years 
from  this  date  the  said  feoffees  shall  have  the  services  of  the  free  tenants 
aforesaid  by  way  of  distress  as  the  said  Walter's  bailiffs  or  otherwise  at 
their  own  cost,  and  any  reversions  that  shall  fall  in  during  that  term,  and 
that  after  ten  years  the  said  \\  alter  or  his  heirs  shall  by  line  grant  the 

id  Services  and  reversions  to  them,  if  the  said  castle  and  lands  shall 
for  ever  be  theire  according  to  the  conditions  of  the  said  charter,  not 

making  any  release  or  granl  of  the  said  services  oi  reversions  to  the 

id  tenants  or  to  any  other  person  in  the  mean  time.  Dated  London. 
3   December    10    Kdward    Ml.       I'n  ,ir/i. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Walter,  Edmund, 
Thomas,      John      de      Bretby,      Nicholas,     Eugh     and     Thomas, 

.')    December. 

Nov.  4.         John   Blount   knight  of  Wiltosir  to  John  Shery,  John   de   Stowe, 
Westminster.  Thomas   le    Yonge   and   Thomas    Boppeley   chaplain.  nisance 

for  l'o/..  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  hi-  lands  and  chattels 
in  Wiltosir. 


278  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  Od — cont. 

I  too.  ,").  John  Kynebelle  of  Saklen  and  Robert  son  of  John  Bullok  to  Thomas 

Westminster.  TireU  knight  and  -John  James  of  Walyngford.     Recognisance  for  SOL, 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bukinghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  John  James. 

Writing  of  John  de  Walden,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Guy  de  Briene 
knight  the  elder  and  William  de  Briene  his  son  and  to  the  heirs  and 
assigns  of  the  said  William  of  the  manor  of  Kemsing  and  le  Sele 
co.  Kent,  with  rights,  liberties  etc.  Dated  Kemsing,  14  December 
49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  December. 

Writing  of  John  de  Walden  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Guy  de 
Brj'ene  knight  the  younger,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Oxenhale  co.  Gloucester,  with  rights,  liberties  etc.  Dated  Oxenhale, 
14  December  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  December. 

Dec.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Caynowe, 
Westminster.  William  Brayniff,  John  Barton  and  Eustace  Dufson  of  Bedfordshire 
to  set  free  William  Haul  and  John  Flesshewere  from  prison  ;  as 
lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  them, 
if  found  in  his  bailiwick,  and  keep  them  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have 
their  bodies  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of 
St.  Hilary  to  answer  the  abbess  of  Elnestowe  as  to  rendering  account 
for  the  time  they  were  receivers  of  her  moneys  ;  and  the  said  prisoners 
have  petitioned  the  king  to  be  set  free,  as  they  are  ready  to  answer 
her  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  John  Caynowe 
and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  201. 
to  have  their  bodies  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

Membrane  Sd. 

Writing  of  William  Botriaux  knight,  being  a  gift  to  Sir  Roger 
Fulthorp  knight,  Richard  Wandesford  citizen  and  mercer  of  London 
and  John  de  Kyllyngale  and  to  their  heirs  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40?.  to 
be  taken  of  all  his  manors,  lands  etc.  in  Devensshyre  at  Michaelmas 
and  Easter,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  therein  and  in  all 
his  manors  and  lands  in  Somersete.  Dated  London,  Monday  after 
St.  Katherine  49  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  November. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  William  Botreaux  knight  of  the  one 
part  and  Sir  Roger  de  Fulthorp  knight,  Richard  de  Wandesford  citizen 
and  mercer  of  London  and  John  Kyllyngale  of  the  other  part,  being 
the  defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  40Z.  to  be  taken  of  his  manors  and 
lands  in  Devensshyre  granted  by  Sir  William  to  the  said  Roger,  Richard 
and  John,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  upon  condition  that  they  shall  hold 
the  manor  and  town  of  Lound  upon  the  Walde  co.  York  with  the 
appurtenances  in  demesne  and  in  reversion  for  a  term  of  eight  years 
from  this  date  without  being  thrust  out  by  any  execution  awarded 
by  judgment  of  the  king's  court  by  any  having  title  of  right  tried, 
found  and  adjudged  in  a  plea  wherein  they  shall  without  covin  take 
essoins,  views,  vouchers  and  all  other  reasonable  delays  according  to 


49  EDWARD  III. 


270 


1375.  Alembram  9d — cord. 

the  law  of  the  land,  [and  that  if  so  thrust  out]  the  said  William  and 
his  heirs  shall  be  bound  to  pay  them  every  year  100  marks  in  the 
church  of  St.  Paul  London,  one  moiety  half  a  year  after  they  shall 
be  so  thrust  out  and  the  other  moiety  half  a  year  after  and  so  from 
year  to  year  during  the  said  term  of  eight  years,  or  that  if  the  said 
Roger,  Richard  and  John  shall  sue  execution  to  have  the  value  of  the 
land  so  lost,  and  shall  have  execution  in  part  or  in  whole,  as  mm  h 
of  the  said  100  marks  shall  be  deducted  as  the  amount  so  recovered, 
and  that  Sir  William  shall  pay  and  discharge  them  of  all  statutes 
and  recognisances  by  him  made  so  that  they  be  not  thrust 
out  as  aforesaid  ;  and  the  said  Roger,  Richard  and  John  shall  pay 
all  charges  and  rents  to  the  said  William's  parceners  and  to  the  chief 
lords  of  the  fee,  namely  such  as  were  begun  before  his  time  except 
the  8/.  10s.  Qd.  due  to  his  said  parceners,  making  no  waste  or  destruction 
during  the  said  term,  and  in  case  they  shall  so  do  they  shall  pay  to 
the  said  William,  his  heirs  or  executors,  treble  the  value  thereof,  and 
if  the  said  rent  charge  of  8/.  10s.  6(/.  shall  be  in  arrear  they  shall  pay 
double  such  arrears  ;  and  both  parties  give  their  word  truly  to  keep 
these  covenants,  provided  that  if  parcel  of  the  said  manor  be  recovered 
out  of  their  hands  recompense  shall  be  made  for  the  same,  and  if 
Sir  William  shall  die  before  livery  of  seisin  of  the  premises,  his  heirs 
or  executors  shall  pay  again  250  marks  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul 
London  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next,  and  if  they  do  not  the 
said  annuity  shall  remain  in  force.  Dated  London,  Thursday  the 
eve  of  St.  Andrew  49  Edward  III.      French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  William,  Roger  and 
Richard,  29  November. 

Sept.  1.  John    de    Westwycombe    of    Hertfordshire    to    John    de    Swynle 

Westminster,  archdeacon    of    Huntingdon.     Recognisance    for    20/.,    to    be    levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Hertfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Dec.  5.  Robert  Sadelere  the  king's  Serjeant  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent 

Westminster,  of  Leycestre,  to  have  such  maintenance  in  that  house    as    Thomas 

Thedyngworth  deceased  had.  [See  p.s.  30811.] 

John  Tristram  one  of  the  king's  falconers  is  sent  to  the  abbol  and 
convent  of  St.  Thomas  Dyvelyn,  to  have  such  maintenance  in  thai 
house  as  John   Best  deceased  had.  [Set    p.s.    -"!< >s K>.  ] 

Dec.  7.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order   by   mainprise  of   Richard   de 

Westminster.  Gyllyng,    William    de    Leycestre,    John    de    Benyngton    and    Henry 

Godechep  of  London  to  stay  altogether  the  further  execution  of  the 

king's  late  command  to  take  of  brother  Richard  d<-  Sutton  master  of 

the  hospital  of  St.  Bartholomew  Smethefeld  London  security  thai  he 

should    nut    without    the   king's   special    licence   depart    to   an\    foreign 
part-,   nor  there   proseeute  SUghl    or  cause  aughl    to   he   prOSeOUted   Or 

attempted  which  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  or  contempt  of  the  king 
or  the  hurt  of  the  people,  nor  send  any  man  thither  for  the  purpo 
certifying  in  chancer}  when  such  Becurity  should  be  taken;   as  that 
command  was  given  upon  information  received  that  the  said  master 
purposed  to  pass  the  sea  in  order  to  prosecute  man)   things  to  the 

prejudice     of    the     kin*:     and     nian\     CM      till     people      bu1     the    said 


280  <  ALKNDAl;   OK  CLOSK   KOLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  Sd — cont. 

Hitharcl  de  Gyllyng  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40/.  that  he  shall  not  depart  thither  without 
such  licence,  nor  prosecute  aught  or  cause  aught  to  be  prosecuted 
or  attempted  as  aforesaid. 

Charter  of  John  Litle  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London  and  Richard 
Ledecombe  chaplain,  giving  to  Richard  de  Croydon  citizen  and 
fishmonger  and  Margery  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  Richard 
de  Croydon  the  whole  manor  of  Grenche  co.  Kent  with  the  chapel 
in  that  manor  and  the  chantry  therein  to  the  same  belonging,  and  all 
liberties,  commodities,  rights  and  appurtenances  of  the  said  manor, 
chapel  and  chantry,  also  all  other  lands,  marshes,  farms,  woods, 
meadows,  rents,  services  and  reversions  in  Gillyngham,  Upcherche, 
Hoo  St.  Mary,  Chetham  and  Reynham  and  in  the  Isle  of  Grean 
sometime  of  Richard  Smelt  late  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London. 
Witnesses  :  Roger  Digge,  Thomas  de  Gillyngham,  Hamon  Louetoft, 
Richard  de  Gillyngham,  William  Bedmanton,  William  Symme,  John 
atte  Halle,  Richard  atte  Boure.  Dated  Gillyngham,  14  April 
38  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Litle,  21  December  this 
year. 

1376.  Membrane  Id. 

Jan.  9.  John  de  Farndon   '  sergeant '  to  Henry  de  Codyngton  parson  of 

Westminster.  Botelesford.  Recognisance  for  41.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Notynghamshire. 

1375. 

Dec.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.     Order  by  a  mainprise  to  set  free  John 

Westminster.  Werdale  and  others  from  prison,  reciting  a  writ  de  judicio  ordering 
the  sheriff  to  have  them  before  the  king  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary. 
(The  rest  as  above,  p.  274.) 


1376. 


Writing  of  Philip  de  Courtenay  and  Philip  la  Vache  knights,  being 
a  gift  and  sale  to  Dame  Alice  Perriers  of  the  marriage  of  John  son  and 
heir  of  Sir  John  de  Moubray  of  Axiholme  knight  tenant  in  chief,  being 
a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  in  case  he  shall  die  a  minor  and 
unmarried  his  heir  being  within  age  the  marriage  of  such  heir,  and 
so  from  heir  to  heir  until  one  of  the  heirs  shall  come  of  age  and  she 
shall  have  the  profit  of  his  marriage  ;  and  surrender  to  the  said  Alice 
of  the  king's  letters  patent  giving  of  his  favour  to  them  the  said  Philip 
and  Philip  for  a  sum  of  money  beforehand  paid  the  marriage  of  the 
said  heir  without  rendering  aught  further,  and  if  he  should  die  of  other 
heirs  as  aforesaid,  as  that  wherein  they  have  wholly  given  their  estate 
retaining  nought.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Beauchamp,  Sir  Bernard 
Brocas,  Sir  Mayheu  Redman  knights,  John  Herlyng,  Walter  Walssh, 
Helmyn  Leget  esquires.  Dated  Langele,  the  Innocents'  day  49 
Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,   5  January,   before 
John  de  Freton  clerk  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  potestatem 
which  is  on  the  files  for  this  year. 

Charter  of  Katherine  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Baars  of  Cotesford 
co.  Oxford  and  of  Roese  his  wife  daughter  and  heir  of  William  Kynbell 


41»   KDWAKD   111.  281 


1370.  Membrane  Id — cant. 

of    Bokyngham,    giving    with    warranty   to   John   Twyford,    Andrew 

Barentyn  and  William  Brytford,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  her  land-, 
rents  and  services  in  Bokyngham,  Padbury,  Badyngton,  Adestoke, 
Boorton  and  Moorton  Late  of  the  said  William  Kvnbcll,  and  all  other 
her  lands  in  the  same  county.  Witnesses:  Roger  atte  Chambre.  William 
Tyngewyk  of  London,  Hugh  Chastleyn  knights,  Alan  Ayctt',  William 
Barton,  Roger  Dayerell,  Thomas  Langeport,  William  Seman,  Simon 
Eton  bailiff  of  Bokyngham.  Dated  Bokvneharn,  14  January 
4!)  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
14  January. 

Jan.  14.  Katherine  Baars,  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Baars  and  Rocse  his 

Westminster,  wife,  to  Nicholas  Twyford  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London. 
Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
her  lands  and  chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 

Writing  of  William  Leyk,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  for  a 
sum  of  money  to  him  paid  with  warranty  to  the  king, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  tenement  and  shops  thereto  adjacent 
in  London  in  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  at  Castelbaynard  which  were 
of  Benedict  Alfox  '  wodmongere  '  of  London.  Witnesses  :  Thomas 
de  Sancto  Albano,  John  Asshurst,  John  Redyng,  John  Somerton, 
Robert  Potenhale.     Dated  London,  10  January  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  January. 

Memorandum  that  on  16  January  this  writing  was  delivered  to  Robert 
de  Asshton  the  treasurer  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury. 

Jan.  18.  To    the    sheriffs  of    London.      Order  by    mainprise    of    Richard 

Westminster,  atte  Seler  of  London,  Geoffrey  Peny  of  London  '  marchal,' 
Robert  Nek  of  London  '  paternostrer '  and  John  Styward  of 
London  '  draper  '  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  late 
writ  to  compel  Robert  Chaumpeyn  '  sadeler,'  William  Hert 
'  bakere,'  Thomas  Noreys,  Robert  Rydere  and  Thomas  Bermyngham 
of  London  to  find  security  and  do  other  things  therein  contained  ;  as 
upon  information  received  that  the  said  Robert  Chaumpeyn  and  the 
others  purposed  to  pass  to  foreign  parts  and  there  to  prosecute  many 
things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  many  of  his  people,  the  king 
ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  the  said  Robert  and  the  others  to  oome 
before  them,  and  to  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors  who.  under  a 
pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  tor  which  the  sheriffs  would 

answer,  would  mainpern  that  the  said  Robert  and  the  others  should 
not    without    the    king's    special    licence   depart    to   any    foreign    parts 

nor  there  prosecute  aught  or  cause  aughl  to  be  prosecuted  or  attempted 

which  mighl    tend  to  the  prejudice  or  contempt   of  the  king  or  to  tin- 
hurt   of   the    people,    neither   should     they   send    any    thither   for   that 
purpose,  and  if    they    should    refuse,  t<>  commit   them   to  prison  then 
to  be  kept   in  safe  custody  until  they  woidd  willingly  so  do,  certifying 

under  seal  in  chancery  the  security  bo  taken,  and  sending  again  that 
writ  :  but  the  said  Riohard,  Geoffrey,  Robert  NCk  and  John,  appearing 
in  person  in  ohanoery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  ■  pain 

of  40f. 


282 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376. 


Membrane  Id — cont. 


Jan.  12.  To  the  same.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Hervy  and  William 

Westminster.  Wyghtman  of  the  city  of  London  to  stay  the  further  publication  of 
the  exigents  against  Stephen  Wyncelade  of  Gloucestershire  ;  as 
William  de  Lincoln  citizen  and  mercer  of  London  is  impleading  him 
before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  for  an  alleged  debt  of  14J.  16s.,  and 
the  said  Stephen  is  put  in  exigents  in  the  husting  of  London  to  be 
outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer 
thereupon,  being  altogether  without  knowledge  of  that  process, 
wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand 
to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Richard  and  William  Wyghtman, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
10/.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  the  day  the  writ  of 
exigents  is  returnable. 

Jan.  23.  Robert   Ippewell   to   David   de   Hennemer.     Recognisance   for   20 

Westminster,  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Gloucestershire. 

Thomas  Goldston  of  Ware  to  John  son  of  John  Morice  of  Cauntebrigge. 
Recognisance  for  100/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Hertfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


1375.  Membrane  6d. 

Dec.  28.         To  S.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  or  in  his  absence  to  his  vicar  general. 

[Kings]       Summons  to  a  parliament  to  be  holden  at  Westminster  on  12  February 

Langley.      next,  commanding  him  to  warn  the  prior  and  chapter  of  his  church  of 

Canterbury,  the  archdeacons  and  all  the  clergy  of  the  diocese  to  be 

present,  the  prior  and  archdeacons  in  person,  the  chapter  by  one  proctor, 

and  the  clergy  by  two.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  662.] 

The  like  to  A.  archbishop  of  York,  W.  bishop  of  Winchester  and 
eighteen  other  bishops,  of  whom  the  bishops  of  St.  Asaph  and  Bangor 
are  not  named. 
[Ibid.,  p.  663.] 

To  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury.     Like  summons. 

The  like  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Albans  and  21  other  abbots,*  and  to 
the  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  the  prior  of 
Co  ventre. 

[Ibid.] 

To  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre.  Summons 
to  the  said  parliament. 

The  like  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  eight  other  earls,  Henry 
de  Percy  and  37  others. 

[Ibid.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire 
girt  with  the  sword,  the  most  fit  and  discreet,  two  citizens  of  every 
city  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  therein  to  be  elected  and 

*  One  name  is  erased,  between  the  abbot  of  Redyng  and  the  abbot  of 
Westminster. 


49   LDWAKI)  III. 


1375.  Membrane  Qd — cont. 

come  to  the  said  parliament.     It  is  not  the  king's  will  that  the  said 
Bherifi  or  any  other  sheriff  he  elected,  or  any  man  of  other  condition 

than  as  aforesaid. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 
[Ibid.,  p.  664.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Bristol.  Order  to  cause  two  burgesses  of  that 
county  (sic)  of  the  most  discreet  and  sufficient  to  be  elected  and  come 
to  the  said  parliament.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Ibid.] 

To  Edward  prince  of  Wales.  Summons  to  the  said  parliament  ; 
as  by  divers  writs  the  king  has  commanded  singular  the  prelates,  nobles 
and  princes  of  the  realm  to  be  then  present. 

[Ibid.,  p.  665.] 

To  John  de  Cavendissh  the  chief  justice.  Summons  to  the  said 
parliament. 

The  like  to  Robert  Beleknapp  and  seven  others. 
[Ibid.] 

To  William  de  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
of  the  Cinque  Ports.  Order  of  every  of  the  said  ports  to  cause  two 
barons  to  be  elected  of  the  best  and  most  discreet,  and  to  come  to 
the  said  parliament. 

[Ibid.] 

Dec.  12.  Dennis  Fauconer  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bordesleye, 

Westminster,  to  have  for  life  such  maintenance  of  that  house  as  Henry  Hunt  deceased 

had  at  the  king's  command.  [By  p.s.  30824.] 

Membrane  5d. 

Dec.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Lumbard 

Westminster,  and  William  Stroweston  of  London  to  stay  until  the  quinzainc  of 
St.  Hilary  next  the  execution  of  a  writ  of  exigents  against  John  Fage 
and  Geoffrey  Maryot  of  Gamelgeye,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  Thomas  Dokofe 
and  William  Wylyngham  parson  of  Throkkyng,  executors  of  Stephen 
Bridde,  lately  impleaded  the  said  John  and  Geoffrey  before  the  said 
justices  for  an  alleged  debt  of  221..  and  that  by  process  thereupon  had 
the  sheriff  was  ordered  by  writ  de  fudido  to  put  the  defendants  in 
exigents  from  county  to  county  until  outlawed  if  they  should  not 
appear,  and  if  they  should  appear  to  take  them  and  keep  them  in  safe 

custody  bo  as  to  have  their  bodies  before  the  said  justices  at  that  day  ; 

and  tin-  defendants  have  found  in  chancery  the  said  Robert  and  William, 

who  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40/.  to  have  their  bodies  before 

the  said  justices  at    the  day   named. 

Dec.  14.         To  the  Bheriffs  of  London.     Order  bj  mainprise  of  Robert  Beylam, 

Westmin-t.r.  .John  Lyndon.  William  Asshebume,  John  Bam    and  Willi  am  Larnburne 
of   London   to  >tay   the  further  execution   of  the   king's  late  command 

to  the  Bherifi  use   Kdmund   Beylam  clerk  to  o •  before  them 


284  CALENDAR    OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1375.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by 
the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would  answer,  would 
mainpern  that  he  should  not  without  the  king's  special  licence  depart 
to  any  foreign  parts,  nor  there  prosecute  aught  or  cause  aught  to  be 
prosecuted  or  attempted  which  might  tend  to  the  contempt  or 
prejudice  of  the  king  or  to  the  hurt  of  his  people,  neither  should  he 
send  any  man  thither  for  that  purpose,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to 
commit  him  to  prison  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would 
willingly  so  do,  and  if  the  sheriffs  have  taken  him  for  that  cause,  order 
to  set  him  free  without  delay  ;  as  the  said  command  was  given  upon 
information  received  that  the  said  Edmund  purposed  to  pass  to  foreign 
parts  in  order  to  prosecute  many  things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king 
and  people,  but  the  said  Robert  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  him  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  200Z. 

Dec.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Luke 

Westminster.  Wille,  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Bukyngham  of  Bukinghamshire, 
Thomas  Ase  of  Holburne,  Henry  Touker  of  Avene  of  the  county  of 
Suthampton  and  John  Berton  of  Holburne  to  stay  the  .further 
publication  of  the  exigents  against  him,  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ; 
as  his  petition  shews  that  John  de  Bisterne  is  impleading  him  before 
the  said  justices  to  render  an  account  for  the  time  that  he  was  the 
plaintiff's  bailiff  in  Asshele  and  receiver  of  the  plaintiff's  moneys, 
and  that  without  his  knowledge  he  is  put  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed 
for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer  thereupon  ; 
and  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  101.  to  have  his  body  before  the 
said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

Dec.  28.  To  R.  bishop  of  Salisbury.     Order  to  grant  to  Hugh  de  Cotyngham 

Westminster,  the  king's  clerk  such  a  yearly  pension  as  shall  befit  the  givers  and 
should  bind  the  receiver  to  him,  making  him  thereupon  letters  patent 
under  the  chapter  (sic)  seal,  and  writing  again  to  the  king  without  delay 
what  he  will  do  ;  as  by  reason  of  his  new  creation  the  bishop  is  bound 
in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the  king's  clerks  at  the  king's  nomination, 
until  provision  of  a  benefice  shall  by  the  bishop  be  made  him  ;  and 
the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Hugh,  whose  advancement  he  has 
at  heart.  By  p.s. 

Dec.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Fangfosse 

Westminster,  clerk,  and  Thomas  Trusbut  of  Yorkshire,  John  de  Wisebech  of 
Cambridgeshire  and  Adam  de  Novo  Castro  of  Northumberland  to 
stay  altogether  the  publication  of  the  exigents  against  Hugh  de 
Wymondeswolde  clerk  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  king  ;  as  lately  a  process  before  the  king  against  the  said 
Hugh  for  an  alleged  trespass  at  the  suit  of  Ralph  Barker  of  Douere 
in  Scarvesdale  being  continued,  order  was  given  to  the  sheriff  by  writ 
de  judicio  to  put  the  defendant  in  exigents  from  county  to  county  until 
outlawed  if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him 
and  keep  him  in  prison  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before 
the  king  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next  to  answer  the  plaintiff; 
and  now  the  said  Hugh  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready 
to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  and  to  answer  the  plaintiff,  and  the 


49  EDWARD  Til.  285 


1375.  Membrane  5d — conl. 

said  John  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancerv,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  Mm.  to  have  him  before  the  king  on  the 
dav  named. 

1376. 

Jan.  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchecpuer.    Order  to  stay  until 

minster,  the  quinzaine  of  St.  John  Baptist  next  their  demand  made  by  exchequer 
summons  upon  Ellen  atte  Corner  to  answer  or  account  for  the  issues 
of  certain  tenements  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mildred  in  Bredestrete  ward 
in  the  city  of  London  ;  as  a  plea  concerning  the  premises  between 
the  king  and  the  said  Ellen  is  pending  in  chancery  without  debate. 

Jan.  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.     Strict  order  on  sight  of  these  presents 

Westminster,  forthwith  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf 
forbidding  any  merchant  of  England  of  whatsoever  estate  under  pain 
of  forfeiture  thereof  to  buy  or  embrace  or  cause  to  be  bought  or 
embraced  any  sort  of  corn  in  that  county  save  such  as  shall  be  needful 
for  his  own  consumption  and  the  consumption  of  his  household,  or 
to  take  any  out  of  that  county  ;  as  by  frequent  complaint  of  the 
people  the  king  has  learned  that  by  reason  of  withdrawing  and 
embracing  of  too  much  corn  now  and  heretofore  done  by  such 
merchants  the  dearness  of  corn  is  increasing  in  the  said  count  v, 
wherefore  the  people  in  those  parts  are  like  to  suffer  great  peril  and 
impoverishment  if  a  speedy  remedy  be  not  applied.  By  C. 

[Faedera.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriffs  of  Worcestershire  and  Gloucestershire. 

[Ibid.] 

Membrane  4d. 

Jan.  20.  To  S.  archbishop  of  Canterbury,  or  in  his  absence  to  his  vicar 
Westminster,  general.  Summons  to  be  at  London  on  Sunday  before  Monday  after 
St.  George  next,  to  which  Monday  at  Westminster  the  king  for 
particular  causes  has  prorogued  the  parliament  summoned  for 
12  February,  commanding  the  said  archbishop  or  vicar  general  to  warn 
the  prior  and  chapter  of  Christ  Church  Canterbury,  the  archdeacons 
and  clergy  of  the  diocese  to  be  present,  the  prior  and  archdeacons  in 
.person,  the  chapter  by  one  proctor  and  the  olergy  by  two. 
|  Hep.  on  lh<  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv,  p.  666.] 

The  like  to   A.   archbishop  of   York,    W.    bishop  of   Winchester  and 

sixteen  other  bishops,  and  to  the  guardians  of  the  spiritualities  of 

St.  Asaph  and   Bangor. 

[Ibid.,  p.  666.] 

To  the  abbot   of  St.  Augustine,  Canterbury.      Like  summons. 

The  like  to  the  abbot  of  St.  Albans  and  lM  other  abbots,*  the  prior 
of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  the  prior  <>f  Coventre. 

|  /hid.] 

To   John    king   of   Castile   and    Leon.      Summons   to   the    parliament 
as  above. 


*  After  the  abbot  of  Redynge   and!  the  abbot  of  Westminster  one  name 

is  en  i  'i 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  4d — cont. 

The  like  to  Hugh  de  Courtenaye  earl  of  Devon  and  six  other  earls, 
Henry  de  Percy  and  39  others. 
[Ibid.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire 
girt  with  the  sword,  the  most  fit  and  discreet,  two  citizens  of  every 
city  and  two  burgesses  of  every  borough  in  the  county  to  be  elected 
and  come  to  the  parliament  prorogued  as  above  ;  but  it  is  not  the 
king's  will  that  the  said  sheriff  or  any  other  sheriff  be  elected,  or  any 
man  of  other  condition  than  that  specified  above. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  throughout  England. 

[Ibid.,  p.  667.] 

To  William  de  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 
of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  two  barons 
of  every  of  the  said  ports  to  be  elected  and  come  to  the  parliament 
prorogued  as  above. 

[Ibid.] 

1375.  Membrane  3d. 

Record  of  proceedings  before  the  council,  reciting  the  licence  given 
by  the  king  on  20  February  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign  to  John  le 
Hastynges  then  earl  of  Pembroke  to  make  a  feoffment  to  particular 
persons  to  whom  he  would  and  to  their  heirs  of  the  castle  and  county 
of  Pembroch,  the  castles  and  lordships  of  Tynby  and  Kilgarren  and 
the  commote  of  Oystrelowe  in  Wales  which  are  held  in  chief,  and  to 
such  persons  to  have  seisin  of  the  premises  and  give  the  same  to  the 
said  earl  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  with  remainder  after  his  death 
for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  king  and  his  heirs  ;  also  licence  given  by 
the  king  to  the  said  earl  to  alien  in  fee  simple  to  whatsoever  persons 
he  would  all  other  his  castles,  lordships,  manors  and  lands  with  the 
fees  and  advowsons  which  he  had  in  demesne  or  in  reversion  in  England 
and  Wales,  being  held  in  chief,  the  manor  of  Asshle  co.  Norffolk  excepted, 
and  of  such  persons  to  take  again  such  estate  as  he  pleased,  namely 
to  himself  alone  or  jointly  with  others  in  fee  simple,  fee  tail  or  for 
life,  and  to  entail,  give  or  grant  the  same  to  whom  he  pleased  with 
remainders  as  he  should  appoint  at  his  own  will  and  pleasure  ;  and 
reciting  that  by  virtue  of  that  licence  the  said  earl  by  charter  enfeoffed 
Walter  Amy  as,  John  Abraham,  John  Doun,  John  Prat  clerks,  Ralph 
de  Walsham  and  Thomas  Criklade  and  their  heirs  as  well  of  the  said 
castle  and  county  of  Pembroch,  the  castles  and  lordships  of  Tynby 
and  Kilgarren  and  the  commote  of  Oysterlowe  as  of  all  other  his 
said  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  fees  and  advowsons  held  by  him 
in  chief  in  England  and  Wales  which  he  had  in  demesne  and  in  reversion, 
the  manor  of  Asshle  excepted,  and  also  of  all  other  his  manors, 
lordships,  lands,  fees  and  advowsons  in  England  and  Wales  not  held 
in  chief  which  he  had  in  demesne  or  in  reversion  ;  reciting  also  that 
the  said  feoffees  after  demised  to  the  said  earl  for  a  term  of  five  years 
beginning  20  March  43  Edward  III  as  well  the  castle  and  county  of 
Pembroch,  the  castle  and  lordship  of  Tynby  and  Kilgarren  and  commote 
of  Oysterlowe  as  other  the  castles,  lordships,  manors,  lands,  fees  and 
advowsons  aforesaid,  the  manor  of  Asshle  excepted,  and  that  within 
that  term  he  (as  John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  lord  of  Weisford 


49  EDWARD  III.  287 


1375.  Membrane  3d — cant. 

and  Bergeveny)  made  a  surrender  to  them  of  his  estate  in  the  premises, 
a  confirmation  of  their  estate,  and  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  them, 
their  heirs  and  assigns  (French  text  follows),  dated  at  his  inn  at  London, 
15  April  46  Edward  III  ;  and  further  reciting  that  after  upon  his 
passage  to  Gascony  the  said  earl  caused  a  schedule  to  be  written 
making  mention  of  those  feoffments,  and  specially  requesting  the  saicl 
feoffees  truly  to  perform  certain  his  wills,  and  to  dispose  of  his  castles, 
lordships  and  lands  according  to  the  form  of  that  schedule,  causing 
the  same  to  be  sealed  with  one  seal  of  his  in  form  of  a  letter  patent 
and  closed  up,  sealing  the  same  when  closed  with  the  ring  on  his  finger, 
and  sending  the  same  so  closed  and  sealed  up  from  the  sea  to  the  said 
feoffees  ;  and  reciting  that  now  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas 
49  Edward  III,  the  said  earl  being  dead  over  sea,  certain  of  the  said 
feoffees,  namely  the  said  Walter,  John  Doune,  John  Prat  and  Ralph 
de  Walsham,  came  before  the  council  at  Westminster  and  there 
delivered  the  said  schedule  closed  as  aforesaid,  which  was  before  the 
council  opened,  and  there  viewed  and  understood,  (French  text  follows,) 
whereby  the  said  earl  gave  the  said  feoffees  knowledge  of  his  will, 
charging  and  requiring  them,  if  he  should  die  over  sea  before  returning 
to  England,  of  the  issues  of  his  said  lands  to  levy  and  pay  his  debts, 
in  case  full  execution  of  his  will  might  not  be  by  his  executors  made 
of  his  chattels,  and  then  in  case  he  should  die  without  an  heir  of  his 
body  to  amortise  the  manor  of  Totenham  to  the  church  of  St.  Paul 
in  order  to  keep  his  anniversary  every  year  and  to  find  twelve  wax 
candles  throughout  the  year  burning  at  reasonable  times  about  his 
tomb,  and  if  there  should  be  any  impediment  wherefore  the  said  manor 
might  not  be  so  amortised,  to  sell  the  same  and  pay  the  money  thereof 
arising  to  the  profit  of  the  said  church  and  the  '  Chartehous  '  in  London 
for  the  purposes  aforesaid,  charging  them  also  in  case  he  should  die 
without  issue  to  enfeoff  the  king  of  the  castle  and  county  of  Pembroke, 
the  castles  and  lordships  of  Tyneby  and  Kilgaren  and  the  commote 
of  Oisterlowe,  and  to  give  to  his  cousin  Sir  William  Beauchamp  and 
to  his  heirs  for  ever  all  other  the  castles,  manors,  lands  etc.  in  England 
and  Wales  which  the  said  feoffees  had  by  his  feoffment,  and  the 
reversion  of  the  castle,  town  and  lordship  of  Bergev|eny|  and  of  all 
the  manors,  lordships,  lands  etc.  held  in  dower  by  Dame  Mary  de 
Seint  Pauil  in  England  and  Wales,  upon  condition  that  he  shall  bear 
the  whole  arms  of  the  said  earl  and  shall  prevail  with  the  king  [facekmt 
ei  dees  nostre  seigneur  le  roi)  that  he  may  bear  the  name  of  earl  of  Pembrok 
to  him  and  his  heirs,  and  if  he  will  not  or  may  not  so  do  to  make  a 
feoffment  and  grant  of  the  premises  to  his  cousin  Sir  William  de  Clynton 
upon  the  same  condition,  this  schedule  bearing  date  in  the  said  earl's 
inn  in  London. ."»  May  1372  ;  whereupon  tin-  -aid  feoffees  there  professed 

that  they  ever  were  and  are  ready  to  their  power  truly  to  fulfil  all  the 
wills  and  conditions  in  that  schedule  contained  and  to  do  QOUghf 
contrary    to    the   call's    will,    and    the   said    William    Beauchamp    alter 

appearing  in  person  before  the  council  in  presence  of  the  said  feoff 

averred,    in    so   far   as    the    matter   therein    contained    concerned    him. 

that    he    was    ready    for    himself    and    his    heirs    to    perform    the    same 

Cording  tO  the  call's  will.  Qamelj    tO  hear  the  whole  arms  of  the  said 

earl  and  to  make  BUi1    with  the  kin<_'  and  his  heirs  that  he  and  his  heirs 

should  have,  receive  and  bear  the  name  of  earl  of  Pembrooh  in  case  the 
said  carl  should  die  without  issue,  praying  the  king  and  oounoil  and  the 
said  feoffeee   to  keep  whole  and   unimpaired   the  aad   right  of 


2SS 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137r>. 


Membrane  3d — cont. 


him  the  said  William  and  of  his  heirs  therein  ;  but  because  the  said 
earl  dying  over  seas  has  an  heir  of  his  body,  who  is  now  within  age 
as  the  council  is  assured,  it  is  determined  that  the  king  shall  have 
the  wardship  of  the  said  castles,  manors,  lordships,  lands  etc.  until 
the  lawf  ul  age  of  the  said  heir,  saving  to  Anne  who  was  wife  of  the  said 
earl  her  dower  of  the  same. 

Membrane  2d. 

Dec.  8.  John  Cursor  of  the  king's  chamber  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent 

Westminster,  of  Eynesham  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  Richard 

Fauconer  in  his  life  time  or  any  other  at  the  command  of  the  king  or 

his  forefathers  had  at  any  time  past  in  meat  or  otherwise.       By  p.s.* 

Membrane  id. 

Dec.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Dunham, 
Westminster.  William  de  Dunham,  Thomas  de  Dunham  and  John  de  Shengham 
of  London  to  set  free  Richard  Oriel,  Richard  de  Dunham,  Christiana 
Chaunterel  and  Sibyl  Chaunterel  from  prison,  bringing  this  writ  before 
the  justices  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  the  Purification  next ; 
as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said 
Richard,  Richard,  Christiana  and  Sibyl  so  as  to  have  them  before 
the  said  justices  on  that  day  to  answer  as  well  the  king  as  Thomas 
Monk,  namely  the  said  Richard  and  Richard  wherefore  contrary  to 
the  ordinance  they  admitted  to  their  service  and  retained  the  said 
Christiana  and  Sibyl,  who  were  lately  in  the  service  of  the  said  Thomas 
at  Merkessale,  and  without  reasonable  cause  and  his  licence  withdrew 
therefrom  before  the  term  agreed,  and  the  said  Christiana  and  Sibyl 
wherefore  they  withdrew  as  aforesaid  ;  and  petition  is  made  to  the 
king  on  behalf  of  all  the  prisoners  to  be  set  free,  shewing  that  they 
are  taken  by  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Norwych,  whom  the  sheriff  has 
caused  to  have  the  return  of  that  writ,  and  are  imprisoned  in  the  prison 
of  the  said  city,  and  that  they  are  ready  to  answer  touching  the 
premises,  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  John  and 
the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under 
a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  their  bodies  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day 
named. 


Dec.  14.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  a  petition  made  on  behalf 
Westminster,  of  John  Lyggard  of  Westclendon,  by  mainprise  of  Walter  Hamme 
and  John  Okhurst  of  Sussex  to  stay  the  execution  of  a  writ  de  judicio 
against  the  said  John  Lyggard  at  the  suit  of  Roger  de  Hynton  citizen 
and  carpenter  of  London,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at 
Westminster  one  month  after  Easter  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews 
that  by  the  said  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  put  the 
defendant  in  exigents  from  husting  to  husting  until  outlawed  if  he 
should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him  and  keep  him 
in  prison  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices 
on  that  day  to  answer  the  plaintiff  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  10Z.  10s., 
and  that  the  defendant  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all 

*  By  warrant  (30816)  dated  7  December,  the  office  of  porter  of  Eynesham 
abbey  is  granted  to  '  Johan  Currour  de  nostre  chambre,'  with  the  fees  and  profits 
which  Richard  de  Faxton  deceased  had. 


19  EDWARD  III.  289 


1375.  Membrane  \<l — eoni. 

things;  ami  the  said  Walter  and  John  Okhurst,  appearing  in  person 
in  chanoery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  10*.  10a.  to  have  his 
body  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

L376. 

Jan.  2.  .John   Haukyn  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at   arms  is  -cut  to    the 

Kings         abbot    and   mnvent    of   Abyndon.    to    have   for   life   such   maintenance 

I.  Qgley.       in  that  abbey  as  Adam  del  Castel  deceased  had  at  the  king's  command. 

By  p.s.  [30Sf>4.J 

Charter  of  Katherine  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Baas,  giving  with 
warranty  to  John  Twyford,  Andrew  Barentvn  and  William  Britford, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  her  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Bokyngham, 
Padbury  and  Hadyngton  co.  Bokyngham  late  of  William  Kynbell, 
and  all  other  her  lands  in  that  county.  Witnesses  :  Roger  atte 
Chambre,  Thomas  Cotes.  Eugh  Waltham,  Robert  Boxford.  Dated 
London.  8  January  4!)  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  January. 

Jan.  3.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  petition  made  on  behalf 

Westminster,  of  John  Frere.  to  set  him  free  from  Neugate  gaol  by  mainprise  of 
Walter  atte  Lee  and  William  Giffard  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews 
that  at  the  suil  of  certain  his  enemies,  averring  that  he  grievously 
threatened  them  in  life  and  limbs,  he  is  taken  and  there  imprisoned 
to  find  security  in  that  behalf  ;  and  the  said  Walter  and  William, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
100/.  that  he  shall  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  any  of  the 
people  being   a    complainant    as   aforesaid. 

Jan.  1 1 .         John  son  of  John  Pritilwel]  to  John  ( 'haunceux  knighl .    Recognisance 
West  minster,  for  1 .001)/..  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment .  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Essex. 


Jan.  20.  Thomas  Stanes*  is  sent  to  the  abbot   and  convent  of  Abbottesbui  \  . 

Sheen.  to  take  for  life  such   maintenance  in  that  abbey  as    Walter   Sylfreuas 

deceased  had  at  the  king's  command.  I''\  p a  [30869.] 


iii  til"   warm  nt    .i  -  Hi.-  knr.:       -•   •  I o i r. • . 

1 1  19 


(  200  ) 


50  EDWARD  III.-PART  I. 


1376.  MEMBRANE  23. 

Jan.  26.  To  Philip  de  Courteney  admiral  of  the  fleet  to  the  westward,  or 

Westminster,  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  take  of  the  masters  and  seamen  of  any 
ships  whatsoever  freighted  with  merchandise  in  the  ports  of  Dertmuth 
and  Plymmuth  and  other  ports  of  those  parts,  which  are  arrested  for 
the  king's  service  upon  their  passage  towards  the  city  of  Bourdeaux, 
security  by  their  oaths  at  least  that  they  will  bring  those  ships  again 
to  the  ports  of  Hamel  and  Sandewich,  and  will  have  them  there  on 
1  March  next  ready  for  the  king's  service  as  direction  is  given  to  the 
admiral  by  the  king,  and  to  dearrest  the  said  ships,  suffering  them 
without  let  to  pass  to  the  said  city  such  arrest  notwithstanding  ; 
as  divers  ships  so  freighted  are  there  arrested  for  the  king's  service 
as  the  king  has  learned.  By  C. 

Jan.  28.  To  Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Herefordshire.  Order  to 
Westminster,  deliver  to  Hugh  Pauncefot.  brother  of  Grimbald  Pauncefot  knight, 
the  manor  of  Couwarn  40s.  of  rent  therein  excepted,  which  is  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  the  said  Grimbald's  death,  together  with 
the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Grimbald  at  his  death  held 
no  lands  in  that  bailiwick  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in 
service,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  held  the  said 
manor  (with  the  exception  aforesaid)  by  knight  service  to  him  and 
Ellen  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  for 
lack  of  such  issue  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Grimbald's  body, 
and  for  lack  of  an  heir  of  his  body  to  the  said  Hugh  and 
to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  of  the  heirs  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl 
of  Hereford  tenant  in  chief,  being  within  age  and  in  the  king's  ward- 
ship, as  of  the  honour  of  Brechon,  and  that  the  said  Grimbald  and 
Ellen  are  dead  without  issue  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of 
the  said  Hugh. 

Jan.  26.  Brother  John  de  Mari  monk  of  Lenton  priory  has  the  king's  letters 

Westminster,  of  exchange  addressed  to  Peter  Mark  merchant  of  Lumbardy  dwelling 
in  the  city  of  London  for  10  marks  payable  to  him  in  foreign  parts. 

Feb.  15.  Brother  John  Hacune  has  like  letters  of  exchange   addressed  to 

Westminster.  John  Crede  merchant  of  Lumbardy  dwelling  in  the  city  of  London 
for  20/.  payable  to  him  in  foreign  parts. 

MEMBRANE  22. 

Jan.  29.  To  John  de  Elinerugge  constable  of  Corf  castle,  and  to  his  lieutenant. 

Westminster.  Order  to  cause  John  de  Weston,  whom  the  king  lately  sent  to  be 

kept  in  custody  in  that  castle  until  further  order,  to  come  before  the 

king  and  council  without  delay,  there  to  answer  touching  matters 

which  shall  be  laid  before  him  on  the  king's  behalf. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    I.  29] 


].")7G.  M'/nhrane  22 — ront. 

Jan.  31.  To    the    mayor    and    sheriff    of    Bristol.     Order    to    keep    without 

bminster.  delivering  up  a  ship  called  'la  Seinte  Marti  '  of  Lulhao,  John  Bono 

de  Madarega  masterj  a  ship  of  St.  Nicholas  of  Dondarna,  John  sfartines 

de  .Maillio  master,  and  any  goods  and  merchandise  of  merchants  of 
Spain  therein,  and  to  restore  without  delay  to  Francis  Marcadel, 
Francis  Romer,  Francis  de  Soyler  and  Massian  Carrer,  merchants  of 
Cateloigne  and  subjects  of  the  king  of  Arragon,  1,408  '  hens  '  and  one 
measure  of  'grayne'  in  the  former  ship,  1,02!)  'hens'  and  three 
measures  of  '  grayne  '  in  the  latter  ship,  10  tuns  of  '  haehins  '  which 
cost  I'M.  10s.  gross,  and  10  '  meses  '  of  copper  which  cost  51/.  12-. 
gross,  being  their  goods  and  merchandise  taken  by  the  king's  liegi 

the  said  goods  were  lately  freighted  in  the  port  of  Swyne  in 
Flanders,  and  by  the  king's  lieges  coming  in  the  fleet  from  Brittany 
by  the  '  Bay  '  were  taken  at  sea  by  force  of  arms,  and  are  brought 
with  the  said  ships  to  the  port  of  Bristol,  as  is  certified  by 
letters  of  John  king  of  Castile  and  Leon  his  son  sent 
to  the  king  and  council  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that 
restitution  be  made  to  the  said  merchants  of  their  own  goods,  according 
to  the  alliance  between  him  and  the  king  of  Arragon.  Proviso  that  the 
custom  and  subsidy  shall  be  truly  paid  upon  such  of  those  goods 
as  shall    he    there  exposed  for  sale. 

Feb.  6.       #  To  the  collectors  in  the  port  of  London  of  the  subsidy  of  6d.  in  the 

Westminster,  pound.     Order    to    suffer    all    the    parcels    comprised    in    a    schedule 

enclosed,  which  were  lately  bought   in   Flanders  for  the  king's  own 

stock  and  brought  to  the  port  of  London,  to  be  taken  thence  without 

demanding  the  said  subsidy  to  the  king's  use. 

Memorandum  of  the  parcels  aforesaid,  received  by  Richard  Lyouns  : 
Mark  of  John   Double:    6  pipes  with  spices    2  bales  of  'canvas,' 
10  pieces  of  wax.  1   bale  of  '  ris,'  1   pipe  of  sugar,  2  barrels  of 
oranges. 
Mark   of    Pete]    Gyselyn  :     5   pipes   with   spices.    ID   pieces  of  wax, 
2  bales  (.!'  almonds,  7  bales  of  •  ris.'  2  hales  of  '  canvas,'  1  barrel 
with  spices. 
Mok  of  William   Mewes  :    5  pipes  with  spices. 
Mark  of  Peter  Jonisson  :    10  pieces  of  wax,  1  hale  of  '  ris.'  2  bales 

of  almonds. 
.Mark  of  John    Laur'  :    10    piece-    of    wax.    1    pipe    with    hauberks, 
1  hales  of  almonds. 

I'cb.  4.  To    John    de    Hale    escheator    in    Somerset.      Order    to    remove    the 

Westminster,  king's  hand    and   not   to  meddle  further  with  the  manor-  of  Burnham 

and     Brene    taken    into    the    king's    hand    b\     the    death    of    Thomas    ,|,- 

Graunson    knight,    delivering   to    William    de    .Monte    Acute   earl    .if 
Salisbury  any   issues  thereof   taken;    as  it    is  found   by  inquisition, 

taken  at  the  king's  command  h\  Walter  ('yficwast  late  escheator. 
that   the   -.nil    Thomas    at     his  death    held    no   lands  in    that   county  in 

chief  or  ol  others  in  In--  demesne  as  of  fee.  but  held  the  said  mam 

fO]    hi-    l>\    L'lant    nl    the    said    earl,    with    reversion    t<>   the  earl   and    his 

heirs    and  that  the  -ami-  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Feb.  9.  ro  John  Carneli  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire.     Order  to  remove 

\\  •  •  i  the  king's  hand,  and  not  in  meddle  further  with  the  manor  ol  Quynton 

t  i  ken  into  t  hi-  kit  Mid  i.\  i  hi-  d<  ath  ol  \\  1 1  ha  in  de  Quynton  knight 


292  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

delivering  to  Isabel  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
lias  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  at  his  command  by  Nicholas 
Seymour  late  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  that  county  in  chief,  but  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Isabel  for  their  lives  of  the 
gift  of  Edmund  fitz  Johan  and  Richard  Leycestre,  and  that  the  same 
is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Feb.  11.  To  John  de  Mattisford  escheator  in  Devon.     Order  to  cause  John 

Westminster,  de  Brightle  and  Agnes  his  wife  to  have  seisin  of  the  purparty  of  the 
said  Agnes  of  the  lands  etc.  of  Richard  de  Merton  tenant  in  chief  kept 
in  the  king's  hand,  keeping  the  purparty  of  Agnes  the  younger  in  his 
hand  until  further  order  ;  as  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken 
at  the  king's  command  by  Thomas  Chaumbernoun  then  escheator, 
that  the  said  Richard  at  his  death  held  the  castle  of  Chepyngtoriton 
in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  13.5.  4(7.  of  rent  in  Chepyngtoriton  of 
others  than  the  king,  that  Eleanor  wife  of  Matthew  de  Stowille  knight, 
Joan  wife  of  John  Baunsile  and  Agnes  de  Merton  the  said  Richard's 
daughters  by  Margaret  his  first  wife,  and  Agnes  his  daughter  by 
Maud  his  second  wife  are  his  next  heirs,  the  said  Eleanor  and  Joan 
being  of  full  age  and  the  said  Agnes  and  Agnes  within  age,  on  14  June 
in  the  45th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  respited  the  homage  of  the  said 
Matthew  by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  the  said  Eleanor 
begotten,  and  commanded  the  said  late  escheator  to  take  the  fealties 
of  the  said  Matthew  and  John  Baunsile,  to  take  of  the  said  Matthew 
and  Eleanor,  John  Baunsile  and  Joan  security  for  payment  of  their 
reliefs  at  the  exchequer,  in  presence  of  the  heirs  and  parceners  of  that 
heritage  and  of  Thomas  de  Stanes  to  whom  the  king  has  committed 
the  wardship  of  two  thirds  thereof,  if  being  warned  they  would  attend, 
to  make  a  partition  of  the  premises  into  four  equal  parts,  and  to 
cause  the  said  Matthew  and  Eleanor,  John  Baunsile  and  Joan  to  have 
seisin  of  their  purparties,  keeping  the  purparties  of  the  said  Agnes 
and  Agnes  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order,  with  a  proviso  that 
every  one  of  the  heirs  should  have  a  portion  of  the  premises  held  in 
chief  and  be  the  king's  tenant  ;  and  now  the  said  Agnes  the  elder, 
whom  the  said  John  de  Brightle  has  taken  to  wife,  has  proved  her  age 
before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  her  said 
husband. 

Feb.  14.  To  Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  of  Margaret  who  was  [wife]  of  Thomas  Graunson  knight  an  oath  that 
she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  the 
heirs,  if  beine;  warned  thev  will  attend,  to  assign  her  dower  of  her 
said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending 
the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.  Like  order  to  assign  dower 
to  the  said  Margaret,  of  whom  an  oath  has  been  taken  by  Edmund  de 
Brugge  (as  above). 

Feb.  20.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Whereas  lately  the  king  learned  that 

Westminster,  certain  tuns  of  wine  being  brought  to  the  city  of  London  in  a  ship  of 

Bayoun,  John  Venisse  master,  the  said  master  and  the  keepers  of  the 

wine   [were   brought]   before   Robert  de   Asshton   the   treasurer,   the 


50    EDWARD    111.     Part    I.  293 


L376.  Membratu   22 — cont. 

king's  butler,  the  collectors  of  the  subsidy  lately  granted  to  the  kinur 
<»f  ti'/.  in  the  pound  and  2a.  on  every  tun  ot  wine  and  before  other 
his  lieges,  and  alleged  that  the  wine  was  of  Florimund  lord  ot  la  Sparre, 
and  under  Ins  name  paid  the  said  subsidy  to  the  collectors,  and  thai 
at  the  suit  ot  James  Jacomyn  merchanl  of  Florence,  averring  that 
the  saiil  Florimund  was  bound  to  him  in  too/.,  the  sheriffs  Bummoned 
him  to  answer  before  them  touching  that  alleged  debt,  arresting  the 
-aid  wine,  and  that  certain  ot  thi    said  keepers  appearing  befon    the 

sheriffs  ;i 1 1< 'tr*'<l  that  the  wine  was  their  own  and  not  of  the  -aid 
Florimund,  offering  proof  thereof  in  order  that  the  said  .lames  should 
be  debarred  from  his  action,  and  craving  (leanest  and  delivery  to 
to  them  of  the  said  wine  to  make  their  advantage  thereof  ;  and  whereas 
the  king,  taking  note  that  such  proof  ought  not  to  be  received  contrary 
to  the  acknowledgment  of  the  said  master  and  keepers  anil  their 
first  averments,  commanded  the  sheriffs  to  certify  him  and  the 
council  concerning  the  tenor  of  the  process  before  them  had.  and 
to  continue  the  cause  before  them,  by  virtue  whereof  they  have 
deferred  to  proceed  therein  ;  the  tenor  of  the  process  being  viewed 
and  examined  before  the  council,  forasmuch  as  the  said  master  and 
keepers  after  their  coming  before  the  treasurer  and  collectors  all* 
and  acknowledged  that  the  said  wine  was  of  the  said  Florimund, 
and  paid  the  Bubsidj  under  his  name,  as  is  witnessed  as  well  by  the 
treasurer  as  by  certificate  of  John  de  [klyngham  late  collector  of 
the  said  subsidy  it  seems  to  the  council  reasonable  that  the  wine 
so  arrested,  and  appraised  at  1(>7/.  6*.  8d.  as  the  sheriffs  have  certified. 
be  delivered  to  the  said  James  to  hold  or  answer  for  the  same  according 
to  the  custom  of  the  city  of  London,  and  the  king  notifies  the  sheriffs 
thereof  thai  they  may  the  more  advisedly  proceed  in  the  same  cause 
doing  speedy  justice  to  the  parties,  the  king's  said  command  notwith- 
standing. Proviso  that  the  said  James  shall  before  the  sheriffs  find 
urity.  for  which  they  will  answer,  to  answer  for  the  wine  or  the 
value  thereof  if  hereafter  the  said  Florimund  shall  Buffer  himself  to 
be  justified  according  to  the  custom  <>t  the  said  city,  and  will  sue  for 
the  same.  By  C. 

Mi: Mm: ask  21. 
Jan.  30.         To  Oliver  de  Barnham  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.     Order  to  take  the 

alty    of    Margaret     late    the    wife    of    Nicholas    de     Loveyn    according 

to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  ienio\e  the  king's  hand 
and  meddle  no  further  with  the  manors  of  Barton  St.  John  and 
Staunton  St.  John   taken   into   the  king's   hand    by   her  said    husband's 

death,  delivering  to  the  -aid  Margarel  any  issues  thereoi  taken  ; 
a-  the  kin<_r  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator.  that 

the  said    Nicholas  at    In-  death   held    no   lands   in    that    <ount\    in   chiei 

in  his  demesne  as  ,,t  fee,  but  held  the  -aid  manors  jointly  with  the 
-aid  Margarel  by  'jilt  of  William  de  Wykeham  bishopof  Winchester  ami 
others  made  with  the  king's  licence  namely  the  manor  of  Barton  to  t  hem 

and   the  heir-  oi   the   body  of  the  -aid    Nicholas,   the  manor  ol   St  miiton 

tor  their  lives  with  remainders  to  ll<ni\    -on  oi    Henr>    Bet ind 

Richard  brother  of  the  said   rlenrj   the  son,  and  Thomas  brother  ot 

the  -aid   Richard    and  t  hat   t  he  -a  me  a  re  held  in  chid   \<\    knighl   ser\  ice. 

Feb.  6.  To  John  Camels  escheator  in   Nbrhamptonshire.     Order  t<>  remove 

.   the   king's   hnid     and    not    to   meddle    further    with    the   advOWSOO    and 


204 


CALENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376. 


Monhninc  21 — cont. 


church  of  Coleworth.  delivering  to  the  prior  of  Canons  Assheby  any 
issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  upon  information  received  of  the 
finding  of  an  inquisition,  before  the  escheator  taken  of  his  office, 
that  after  the  statute  of  mortmain  the  said  church  is  without  the 
king's  licence  appropriated  to  the  said  prior  and  the  convent,  the 
king  ordered  the  escheator  to  send  that  inquisition  into  chancery 
at  a  set  day  now  past,  and  by  that  inquisition  sent  thither  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  command  it  is  found  that  after  the  statute  of  mortmain 
the  said  prior  and  convent  without  obtaining  the  king's  licence 
appropriated  to  them  and  their  successors  two  thirds  of  the  advowson 
of  Coleworth  church  ;  and  the  said  prior,  appearing  in  chancery  on 
the  morrow  of  the  Purification  last,  produced  letters  patent  of  the 
king,  dated  15  June  in  the  29th  year  of  his  reign,  giving  licence  to 
the  said  prior  and  convent  and  to  their  successors  to  appropriate  and 
hold  the  said  church,  being  of  their  own  patronage  it  was  said,  also 
papal  letters  whereby  the  pope  appropriated  and  annexed  that  church 
to  the  said  priory  with  all  rights  and  appurtenances  thereof,  praying 
removal  of  the  king's  hand  ;  and  the  king  has  viewed  as  well  his 
letters  patent  as  the  pope's  bull  and  other  evidences  of  the  prior, 
whereby  it  appears  that  the  said  church  was  lawfully  appropriated. 

Feb.  7.  To  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop  and  in  the  march  of  Wales 

Westminster,  adjacent.  Order  to  take  the  fealty  of  Elizabeth  wife  of  Robert  Corbet 
knight  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  the  manors  of  Shawebury 
and  Besseford,  three  messuages  and  three  bovates  of  land  in 
Shawebury  and  divers  other  manors  and  lands  in  the  said  county 
and  march  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said  husband's  death, 
delivering  to  the  said  Elizabeth  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Robert  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  the  said  county  and  march  in 
chief  nor  of  others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  that  by  gift  of  Thomas 
Grey  vicar  of  Morton  and  others  made  with  the  king's  licence  he  held 
the  said  manors  and  premises  in  Shawebury  jointly  with  the  said 
Elizabeth  for  their  lives  in  chief  by  knight  service,  and  the  other, 
manors  and  lands  aforesaid  likewise  jointly  with  her  for  their  lives 
of  others  than  the  king. 


Feb.  12.  To  Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march 

Westminster,  of  Wales  adjacent.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  Giles  Malore  and 
Joan  his  wife,  who  was  wife  of  Richard  Baskerville  knight  tenant  by 
knight  service  of  the  heirs  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford 
and  of  William  de  Ferariis  tenants  in  chief  deceased,  being  within 
age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  an  underwood  in  Erdesley  extended 
at  20s.  a  year,  60s.  of  rent  in  that  town,  a  hamlet  called  Parton 
extended  at  26s.  Sd.,  the  pleas  and  perquisites  of  court  there  at 
13s.  4d.,  200  acres  of  demesne  land  in  the  said  hamlet  at  40s.,  a  pasture 
therein  at  40s.,  a  hamlet  called  Irdesley  at  40s.,  and  the  pleas  and 
perquisites  of  the  court  of  Irdesley  extended  at  26s.  Sd.  a  year  ;  as 
the  king  by  letters  patent  has  pardoned  the  said  Giles  his  trespass 
in  taking  her  to  wife,  and  the  said  Joan  her  trespass  in  marrying 
without  the  king's  licence,  and  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Richard  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  has  assigned  the  premises  to  her, 


50  EDWARD  III.— I'aki    !. 


295 


1376. 


1/  mbrane  21 — nmt . 


rendering  •>-.  Bd.  a  year,  which  is  the  excess  of  her  said  dower,  to  the 
king  u 

Baid  heir. 


kin lt  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  Baid  Richard's  heir  and  then  to  the 


Fel).  I  To  Oliver  de  Barnham  escheator  in  Wiltesir.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not   to  meddle  Further  with  the  manor  oi  Wbtton 

Ryvers  and  -i\  messuages  in  the  city  of  New  Sarum  taken  into  the 

king's  hand  bv  the  death  of  Thomas  de  la   Kvvere.  delivering  to  Isahel 

■ 

his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  bj  inquisition, 

taken  by  the  escheator.  that  the  said  Thomas  at  .his  death  held  the 
said  manor  jointly  with  the  said  Isahel  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies,  and  the  said  messuages  for  life  in  her  right,  and  that  the  >auie 
are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Feh.  16.  To  William  de  Wyndesore  governor  and  guardian  of  Ireland.  Order 
Westminster,  to  inform  himself  fully  of  the  estate  of  Ireland  and  all  profits  and 
commodities  thereof,  and  leaving  all  other  things  to  he  in  person 
hefore  the  council  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next,  to 
treat  and  give  counsel  with  the  king,  the  lords  and  others  of  the  council 
touching  the  business  of  Ireland  and  the  reformation  and  security 
of  the  estate  thereof  ;  as  it  is  the  king's  will  b\  discretion  and  advice 
of  the  lords  and  learned  men  of  his  council  to  make  provision  for 
the  reformation  of  the  estate  of  Ireland  and  for  the  good  governance 
thereof,  hoping  that  the  business  may  he  the  better  directed  by  the 
counsel  and  information  of  the  said  William  ;  and  order  upon  his 
departure  from  Ireland  to  deliver  by  indenture  the  office  of  justiciary 
of  Ireland  and  all  things  thereto  pertaining  to  Maurice  tit/.  Thomas 
earl  of  Kildarc  to  whom  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  committed 
that  office  during  the  said  William's  absence  or  until  further  order. 

[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv,  p.  667. J 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

Roger  Holiwode  knight  chief  baron  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland. 
William  Carle!  one  of  the  barons  of  the  exch<  quer  of  Ireland. 

[Ibid.,  p.  668.] 

Feb.  16.         To  the  chancellor  and  the  treasure]   in  Ireland  and  either  of  them. 
Westminster.  Order    upon     their    allegiance    to    inform    themselves    touching     the 

estate  of  Ireland  and  the  profits  and  commodities  thereof  to  the 
king    pertaining,    and    how     such   estate   may  most    fitly    be    corrected, 

and  before  the  quinzaine  oi  Easter  a1  latest  to  certify  the  king  and 
council  under  their  seals  touching  the  premises  and  other  matters 
whatsoever  which  according  to  their  discretion  shall  seem  to  be  most 

'Mul    in    that     behalf,    with    then-    counsel    and    advice    thereupon; 

William   de   Wyndesore   governor  and   guardian   of    Ireland   and 
certain  other  the  king's  officers  <>t  Ireland  are  at  the  king's  command 
about   to  come  to  him  in   England  to  give  information  to  the  ki 
and  council  concerning  the  estate  of  Ireland,  and  it  i-  the  king's  will 
to  he  certified  likewise  as  aforesaid  i»\  the  chancellor  and  treasurer. 

MEMBR  i  w    20. 

I •'•  »b.  10.         To  Edmund    Lorence  i  oi    in   Lancashire.     Order  t<»  remove 

Westminsfc  r.  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  middle  further  w  ith  a  in  e  ot  \\  illiam 

Fletewode  in  Scotford,  delivering  up  anj    issues  thereol    taken; 
lateU    Richard  de  Boghton  late  escheator  certified    in   ohanoerj 


296  CALENDAB  OF  CLOSK  ROLLS. 


l.'>7(>.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

the  king's  command  that  he  took  the  said  messuage  into  the  king's 
band  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken,  that  William 
le  Skynner  of  Scot  ford  outlawed  for  felony  on  the  day  when  his  out- 
lawry was  published  held  the  same  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  ;  and 
after  because  the  said  escheator  did  not  fully  certify  him  thereupon, 
the  king  ordered  the  coroners  to  search  the  outlawries  and  felonies 
pending  before  them  and  other  memoranda,  and  to  certify  under 
their,  seals  whether  any  such  outlawry  was  pending  or  proclaimed 
in  that  county,  and  if  so  what,  for  committing  what  felony,  and  the 
date  thereof  ;  and  Richard  de  Assheton,  William  de  Bredekirk 
and  Edmund  Frere  coroners  have  certified  that  they  have  searched 
the  rolls  and  memoranda  of  their  office,  and  found  no  felony  com- 
mitted by  William  Skynner,  nor  any  outlawry  published  against 
him  for  any  cause. 

Feb.  18.  To  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop  and.  Staffordshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  cause  Henry  son  and  heir  of  John  Morf  tenant  in  chief  to  have 

seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his 

death  ;    as  he  proved  his  age  before  Roger  de  la  Lee  late  escheator, 

and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [30919.] 

Feb.  19.  To  William  de  Latymere  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden 

Westminster,  of  the  Cinque  Ports  or  his  lieutenant,  Nicholas  Heryng'  steward  of 
Kent,  Thomas  Elys,  Thomas  Loveryk  and  Arnald  Broun  of  Sandwich, 
and  the  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Canterbury  and  the  town  of  Romene. 
Order  to  proceed  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  to  them  here- 
tofore made  to  make  restitution  of  all  the  wines  of  merchants  of 
Bourdeaux  lately  taken  at  sea  by  the  king's  lieges  in  two  ships  of 
Campe,  doing  speedy  justice  to  the  parties  according  to  the  laws 
and  customs  of  the  said  ports,  the  king's  command  to  stay  such 
proceedings  notwithstanding  ;  as  on  26  July  last  the  king  appointed 
the  said  William  and  the  others,  six,  five,  four,  three  and  two  of  them, 
to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  the  liberty  of  the  Cinque  Ports 
concerning  the  said  wines  and  the  names  of  all  and  singular  who  took 
the  same  and  then  had  them,  and  to  restore  the  same  to  Peter  de 
Brymons  and  William  Megge  merchants  of  Bourdeaux  in  whose  hands 
soever  they  should  be  found  ;  and  upon  the  petition  of  Adam  de 
Bury  citizen  of  London,  who  is  indicted  for  60  tuns  of  the  said  wines 
by  him  taken  it  was  said,  the  king  after  on  18  December  following 
by  a  mainprise  found  in  chancery  by  the  said  defendant,  commanded 
them  to  stay  the  process  before  them  against  the  said  Adam  upon 
that  indictment. 

Feb.  21.  To   John   Dymmok   escheator   in   Lincolnshire.     Order,   upon   the 

Westminster,  petition  of  William  Mountayn  clerk  executor  of  John  de  Welby, 
if  the  facts  are  as  stated,  to  deliver  to  him  the  goods  and  chattels 
which  were  the  testator's  at  his  death,  that  he  may  pay  the  testator's 
debts  and  execute  his  will  as  he  ought  to  do  ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  the  said  goods  and  chattels  are  hardly  sufficient  to  pay  the 
testator's  debts  and  legacies,  and  that  pretending  that  they  are  of 
John  de  Navenby  which  they  are  not,  the  escheator  has  caused  the  same 
to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  as  forfeit  to  the  king,  for  that 
John  de   Navenby  feloniously  ravished  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of 


50  EDWARD  OL— Pabt  I.  29; 


L376.  Membraiu  20 — con/. 

John de Welby, for  which  felony  he  is  indicted,  and  is  put  in  exigents  in 

Lincolnshire  to  be  outlawed  it  is  said.     Ii  is  the  king's  will  that  the 
icheatoi  be  thereof  discharged   toward  him. 

Feb.  <>.  T"  the  mayor  of  the  town  of  Warham.     Order,  upon  the  petition 

of  the  prior  of  Bustlesham  Mbuntagu,  to  take  a  mainprise,  for  which 
the  mayor  will  answer,  for  having  a  ship  called  the  '  Margaret*  'of 
Warham.  John  Iwayn  master,  ready  at  the  day  and  place  appointed 
to  sail  on  the  king's  service,  and  to  Buffer  the  said  master  freely  w  ithout 
let   to  put   on   board  two  marble  columns  by  the  said  prior  boughl   at 

Warham  and  bring  them  to  the  city  of  London,  any  command  of  the 
king  to  the  said  mayor  previously  addressed   aotwithstanding  ;     as 

the  prior's  petition  shews  that  the  said  ship  is  now  arrested  for  the 
kn  ■  \  ice.  By  C. 

Feb.  7.  To   William    Strete   the   king's   butler,   or   to   his   representative   in 

bminster.  the  port  of  Suthampton.  Order  to  deliver  to  the  prior  and  convent 
of  St.  Denis  by  Suthampton  or  to  their  attorney  one  tun  of  red 
wine  of  the  king's  prise  of  wines  brought  to  that  port  of  this  instant 
season  of  '  rek  '  :  as  the  king  by  charter  has  given  to  the  said  prior 
and  convent  and  to  their  successors  for  the  celebration  of  ma- 
in that  priory  for  the  souls  of  the  faithful  departed  one  tun  of  red 
wine,  to  be  taken  every  year  in  that  port  by  the  hands  of  Ins  butler 
for  the  time  being  or  of  the  said  butler's  representative  there  of  the 
first  wines  of  the  king's  prise  brought  thither  of  the  season  of  '  rek.' 
It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  butler  be  thereof  discharged  toward 
him. 

Feb.  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Nbrffolk.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  for  the  town 

minster,  of  Lenne  to  be  elected  instead  of  Simon  de  Gunton,  who  is  dead  as  the 
king  has  learned. 

Feb.  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.     Order  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  de  Conipton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Membrane  19. 

March  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.      Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  hike 

w  i  tminster.  the  king  ant  at  arms,  by  mainprise  of  John  Fisshe  and  Geoffrey 

Fourboui  of  the  city  of  London  to  deliver  to  him  w  ithout  delay  certain 
armour  of  his  by  the  sheriff  arrested  to  the  king's  use  for  particular 
causes;  as  the  said  John  and  Geoffrey,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancers-.  bavi  mainperned  that  the  said  serjeanl  shall  truly  answer 
to  the  king  for  the  same  or  for  the  value  thereof,  if  it  shall  be  forfeit 
to  the  king. 

March  1".  To  Robert  Hale-  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jersualem  in 
England,  and  to  brother  Richard  de  Overton  receiver  genera]  in 
England  of  the  supreme  master  of  Rodes.  Licence  this  time,  the 
king's  prohibition  notwithstanding,  to  send  over  b\  wa\  of  exchange 

to  the  said  master  and  convent  at  Ibxles.  for  their  use  and  advantage 
and   for  defence  of   christians   there    and    not     ebew  here  dwelling  and 

cone  otherwise    I  000  marks  if  bo  great  a  Bum  I'-  ied  and  collected  m 

name  of  response  (r<  tpOMtonie)  be  in  their  treasury,  provided  that   the 

said  master  and  convent  shall  certify  the  king  oJ  the  reoeipl  then 


298  CALKXDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

although  lately  the  king  learned  that  the  said  prior  and  all  his 
predecessors  being  priors  of  the  said  Hospital  in  all  past  times  had 
and  held  all  the  lands  and  possessions  of  the  Hospital  in  Scotland 
as  one  preceptory  pertaining  and  annexed  to  their  priory  and  subject 
to  their  jurisdiction,  and  set  over  the  same  the  king's  lieges  of  England 
who  paid  their  response  to  their  chapter  of  England  and  not  elsewhere, 
and  that  the  late  prior  of  the  Hospital  in  France  being  made  master 
of  Rodes,  scheming  to  draw  to  the  dominion  and  power  of  the  realm 
of  France  and  into  subjection  to  the  prior  in  France  the  said  preceptory 
being  so  subject  to  the  power  of  the  realm  of  England  and  ruled  by 
the  king's  lieges,  has  thereto  collated  a  certain  Scotsman,  appointing 
that  the  response  which  used  to  be  paid  to  the  said  chapter  should 
thenceforward  be  paid  to  the  prior  of  France  at  Paris,  and  although 
the  king,  willing  to  obviate  this  new  and  unheard  of  prejudice  to  him 
and  to  the  realm,  forbade  the  said  prior  and  receiver  under  pain  of 
forfeiture  and  at  their  peril  secretly  or  openly  to  send  or  suffer  to  be 
sent  to  the  said  master  any  money  or  cess  of  the  said  Hospital  in 
name  of  response  or  otherwise  whatsoever,  until  the  said  master 
should  apply  a  remedy  ;  as  the  said  master  and  the  convent  of  Rodes, 
learning  for  a  surety  by  express  information  of  brethren  of  the  priory 
dwelling  therein  that  the  preceptory  of  Scotland  used  to  be  held, 
ruled  and  governed  by  the  priors  of  England,  of  their  particular 
knowledge  have  revoked  and  annulled  the  gift  thereof  to  the  said 
Scotsman,  and  have  granted  and  conferred  the  same  upon  the  said 
prior  in  England  with  all  and  singular  the  members,  appurtenances 
and  rights  thereto  belonging  and  which  ought  to  belong  thereto  in 
spiritualities  and  temporalities  as  well  in  chief  as  in  the  members, 
as  appears  by  bulls  of  the  said  prior  (sic)  and  convent  produced  before 
the  council  ;  and  at  the  instance  and  solicitation  of  the  said  prior 
and  receiver  and  in  consideration  of  their  indigence  the  king  would 
shew  favour  to  the  said  master  and  convent.  Dupplicatur. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  18. 

Feb.  22.  To  the  guardian,  governor  or  justiciary  of  Ireland  or  his  representa- 
Westminster.  tive,  and  to  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland  for  the  time  being 
and  either  of  them.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Elizabeth  who  was 
wife  of  Edward  le  Despenser  knight  tenant  in  chief,  being  daughter 
and  heir  of  Bartholomew  son  of  Bartholomew  de  Burgerssh,  to  cause 
restitution  and  livery  to  be  made  to  her  of  all  the  manors,  lands, 
rents  etc.  which  were  of  her  right  and  heritage  after  her  said  father's 
death,  and  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  as  well  by  virtue  of  the 
ordinance  hereinafter  mentioned  as  by  her  said  husband's  death,  with 
the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  of  churches,  and  with  all  issues  thereof 
taken  since  Martinmas  last,  on  which  day  the  said  Edward  died  as  is 
found  by  inquisition  thereupon  taken  at  the  king's  command  by 
Edmund  Brugge  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  Herefordshire 
and  returned  in  the  chancery  of  England  ;  as  her  petition  shews  that 
the  manors  of  Killotheran  and  Belliconar  co.  Watirford,  which  are 
of  her  heritage,  were  after  her  said  father's  death  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  virtue  of  an  ordinance,  lately  made  at  Guldeford  in  the 
42nd  year  of  the  reign,  that  every  man  having  lordships  or  lands 
in  Ireland  whatsoever  should  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  before 
Easter  in  the  43rd  year  or  on  that  feast  come  in  person  to  Ireland, 


50    EDWARD    III. -Part    I. 


299 


1 3 7 * '» .  Miinbrane   IS — cont. 

or  send  thither  men  sufficient  according  to  the  proportion  of  such 
lands,   there   to  abide   thenceforward   upon   the  defence  of   Ireland. 

and  for  that  the  said  Edward,  being  then  on  the  king's  servioe  over 
i  and  knowing  not  of  that  ordinance,  came  not  before  the  said 
feast,  nor  sent  men  sufficient  to  abide  upon  the  defence  of  the  said 
lordships  and  lands,  and  thai  the  same  were  in  the  king's  hand  until 
the  said  Edward's  death  and  after  and  yet  are  as  well  for  that  cau-e 
as  l>v  the  said  Edward's  death,  praying  restitution  ;  and  inasmuch 
there  is  no  fault  in  her  the  said  Elizabeth,  and  the  said  Edward 
might  not  forfeit  the  said  manors  but  for  his  life  time,  in  consideration 
of  hi-  estate  therein,  and  for  that  the  king  has  taken  the  hom 
and  fealty  of  the  said  Elizabeth  for  her  said  father's  lands  in  KiiLrland 
and  Ireland  and  has  commanded  livery  to  be  given  her  of  all  lands 
of  her  heritage  in  England,  he  is  minded  to  grant  her  prayer.  Proviso 
that  the  said  Elizabeth  shall  rateablv  by  herself  or  by  others  find 
and  perform  all  charges  due  for  the  said  manors,  as  others  in  Ireland 
are  bound  to  do. 

March  5.  To  the  warden  of  the  Flete  prison.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  de 
Westminster.  Xeville  lord  of  Raby  to  cause  John  de  Grantham,  attorney  of  Bertram 
Monboucher  late  sheriff  of  Northumberland,  to  be  set  free  from  the 
said  prison  without  delay  :  as  the  said  John  de  Xeville  has  mainperned 
before  the  treasurer  of  England  that  the  said  Bertram  shall  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Easter  next  pay  at  the  exchequer  all  moneys  by  him 
due  to  the  king  for  the  time  that  he  was  sheriiT.  or  shall  he  that  day 
at  the  exchequer  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  shall  determine  in 
that  behalf.  By  hill  of  the  treasurer. 

March  14.       Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Nicholas  Donyngton,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

MEMBRANE  17. 
.March  24.  To  Robert  de  Wilughhy,  Ralph  de  Crumwell,  William  de  Thorp, 
w .  tminster.  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  Henry  de  Asty,  Roger  de  Kirketon,  Roger  de 
Fulthorp,  Robert  de  Haryngton,  John  Hode  and  William  de  Spaigne, 
and  every  of  them.  Order  to  continue  in  the  state  it  now  is  until 
some  day  after  Whitsuntide  next  to  lie  by  them  appointed  the  king's 
writ  of  14  March  last  appointing  them.  nine,  eight,  seven,  six.  five, 
four,  three  and  two  of  them,  of  whom  the  said  Thomas.  Roger  or 
Roger  -hould  be  one,  justices  to  make  inquisition  bj  true  men  of 
Lincolnshire  concerning  certain  alleged  trespasses  by  force  of  arms 

committed    at     Multon     h\     .Matthew      Redemane     knight     and    others 

against  Gilbert  de  [Jmframville  earl  of  Angos,  and  to  hear  and  deter- 
mine the  same,  making  no  further  process  thereupon  in  the  mean 
time  nor  until  further  order,  that  in  the  mean  time  the  king  and 
COUnoil    may    ha\e    fuller    inforrnat  ion    concerning    the     premises    and 

the  manner  thereof  ;    as  the  -aid   Matthew    has  submitted   himself 

to  the  kii  ICC    Hid  to  the  order  of  the  king  and  council  concerning 

trespasses  and   wrongdoings  whatsoever  wherein   he  shall   be  found 

tp  -i   in  regard  to  entering  the  manor  ol  Multon.  praying  that 

the  -.mi  plaint  We  l>\  the  king  and  council  debated,  and  has  found 
mainpernors  in  chancery  who  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  oi  2001. 

that  he  -hall  he  ie,u|\  to  ,m-wer  and  content  the  .said  call  and  others 
,,|     the     people     tilde     foi     the     t|e-|>a--cs    a  lid     U  lollIM  lo|  QgB     whclcot     he 

and  the  others  aforesaid  shall  he  found  guilty. 


300  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1,,:)7<).  Membrane  17 — cont. 

To  John  de  Welle.  Ralph  de  Crumwell,  Roger  de  Kirkcton,  Henry 
Asty.  William  de  Burgh  and  John  Hode  and  every  of  them.  Order 
not  to  proceed  until  a  day  to  be  by  them  appointed  after  Whitsuntide 
next  to  take  an  assize  of  novel  disseisin  before  them  arraigned  by 
Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of  Angos  and  Maud  his  wife  against 
Matthew  de  Redemane  knight.  Joan  his  wife  and  others,  and  another 
like  assize  before  them  arraigned  by  the  said  earl  and  Maud  against 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  Anthony  de  Lucy  and  others  concerning  tenements 
in  Multon,  but  to  continue  those  assizes  in  the  state  they  now  are,  that 
in  the  mean  time  the  king  and  council  may  have  fuller  information 
concerning  the  matter  ;  as  on  4  March  last  the  king  by  letters  patent 
appointed  the  said  John  and  the  others  to  take  those  assizes  ;  and 
the  said  Matthew  has  submitted  himself  to  the  king's  grace  concerning 
the  said  assize  and  other  matters  in  regard  to  that  cause,  and  has 
found  in  chancery  mainpernors  who  have  mainperned  for  him  and 
the  said  Joan  under  a  pain  of  200/.  that  they  shall  be  ready  to  answer 
and  according  to  the  order  of  the  king  and  council  to  content  the 
said  earl  and  others  of  the  people  there  for  all  manner  of  trespasses 
and  wrongs,  in  case  they  and  the  others  aforesaid  shall  be  found 
guilty  in  that  behalf. 

The  like  to  Thomas  de  Ingelby  and  William  de  Burgh. 

March  27.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.  Strict  order,  as  he  will  save  him 
Westminster,  harmless,  by  true  men  of  his  bailiwick  within  liberties  and  without 
to  make  inquisition  concerning  all  the  treasure  found  under  ground 
which  is  in  the  keeping  as  well  of  Henry  Holton  bailiff  of  the  hundred 
of  Pacchestrowe  and  Clere  as  of  others  in  the  sheriff's  bailiwick, 
causing  the  same  to  be  arrested  to  the  king's  use  wherever  it  may 
be  found,  and  to  be  brought  or  sent  safely  to  the  receipt  of  the 
exchequer  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  bailiff  and  certain 
others  have  in  their  keeping  a  particular  treasure  so  found,  which  may 
pertain  to  the  king  and  to  none  other. 

MEMBRANE  16. 

Feb.  28.  To  John  de  Tothill.     Order  not  to  meddle  further  in  the  office  of 

Westminster,  guardian  of  the  peace,  justice  of  oyer  and  terminer,  and  arrayer  of 
men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  in  the  Westrithing  in  Yorkshire, 
although  by  divers  letters  patent  the  king  lately  appointed  him  and 
other  lieges  to  the  same  ;  as  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  council 
the  king  has  thought  fit  to  remove  him. 

Feb.  26.  To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.  Order  to  cause  the 
Westminster,  abbot  of  Wobourne  to  have  seisin  of  a  messuage,  22  acres  of  land, 
2  acres  of  meadow  and  4s.  of  rent  in  Everesholt  and  Tyngre  held  by 
John  Page  of  Everesholt  outlawed  for  felony  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  John  de  Broughton  late  escheator, 
that  the  said  messuage,  meadow  and  rent  and  30  acres  of  land  in 
Everesholt  and  Tyngre  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and 
are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said  John  held  that  messuage,  meadow 
and  rent  and  22  acres  of  the  said  land  of  the  said  abbot,  and  that 
William  de  Otteford  formerly  escheator  had  the  year  and  a  day  and 
the  waste  thereof,  and  ought  to  answer  for  the  same  to  the  king. 


50  EDWARD  in.— Part  I.  301 


1  ■">.<>.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

I'il>.  29.  To  Gilbert  de  Culwen  escheatoi  in  Northumberland.  Order  to 
r.  cause  .John  son  and  heir  of  Robert  de  .Miners  knight  tenant  in  chief 
to  have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  taken  Into  the  kind's 
hand  by  his  deatli  ;  as  the  said  John  proved  Ids  age  before  John 
Sayvylle  late  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [30935.J 

Feb.  29.  To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  to  keep 

tminster.  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order  the  3  acres  of  meadow,  three 
tenants  and  the  liberty  of  a  court  hereinafter  mentioned,  to  take  the 
fealty  of  Amy  wife  of  Roger  Loveday  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule 
enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  as 
well  with  a  messuage  and  80  acres  of  land  in  Great  Wylburgham 
with  all  other  the  lands  held  of  others  than  the  king  which  are 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said  husband's  death,  delivering  to 
her  any  issues  thereof  taken  except  of  the  said  3  acres  of  meadow, 
three  tenants  and  the  liberty  of  a  court  ;  as  the  king  has  Learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said 
Roger  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of  others  in  his  demesne 
as  of  fee  nor  in  sen  ice.  but  that  in  the  36th  year  of  the  reign  without 
obtaining  the  king's  licence  he  enfeoffed  Richard  Garlond  clerk. 
John  Waryn  of  Purle,  William  atte  Walle,  William  Redell  and  others 
of  a  messuage,  a  toft,  2:50  acres  of  land.  3  acres  of  meadow,  three 
customary  tenants.  25s.  of  rent  and  the  liberty  of  a  court  to  be  holder) 
every  three  weeks  in  Great  Wylburgham,  whereof  the  said  toft, 
so  acres  of  land.  3  acres  of  meadow,  three  tenants  and  liberty  of  a 
court  are  held  in  chief  by  serjeanty,  namely  to  keep  one  sparrow  hawk, 
and  by  the  service  of  I2d.  a  year  of  the  sheriff's  aid,  and  the  residue 
of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  on  8  May  in  the  42nd  year  of  his  reign 
the  king  by  letters  patent  pardoned  the  trespass  committed  by  so 
acquiring  the  said   me  and  80  acres  of  land,  further  granting 

licence  to  the  said  Richard,  John,  William  and  William  that  they 
might  thereof  enfeoff  the  said  Roger  and  Amy  and  the  heirs  of  the 
said   Roger,  which  afterwards  they  did. 

Feb.  12.  To  Oliver  de  Barnham  escheatoi'  in  Berkshire.  Order,  upon  the 
rinding  of  an  inquisition,  by  the  escheatoi-  lately  taken  at  the  king's 
command   thai  Thomas  Rous  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county 

in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  no)-  in  service,  but   held  in  his  demesne 

ot    tee  I')/.    13«.    \'L   of   rent    in    \euehiry    pa\ah|i     at    -'l    terms     that 

he  died  thereof  Beised,  bul  of  whom  the  same  is  held  or  by  what  >er\  ice 

is    not    known,  that  deceased  at   his  death   held  no  other  lands  in  that 

county  in  demesne  nor  in  service,  and  that  Robert  de  rlendale  knight 

and    Maud   hifl   wife  have  Bince  his  death  and  do  yet    take  and   occupy 

the  same,  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with 

the   said    icnt.   delivering    up   any    issues    thereof   taken;     as    it    i»    not 

found  by  'hat  inquisition  nor  by  certificate  of  the  treasurer  and  the 
barons  of  the  exchequer  Bent  into  chancer}  at  the  king's  command 
whether  the  said  rent  is  held  in  chief  or  no. 

March  7.        Order  to  the  Bherifl  ol   Berkshire  to  cat  uer  to  be  elected 

d  of  William  de  rjdesle,  w  ho  i    dead, 


3D  2 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

March  8.  To  W.  bishop  of  Cicestre.  Order  by  indenture,  making  distinct 
Westminster,  and  open  mention  of  the  same  and  the  price  thereof,  to  cause  one  empty 
chest  and  other  goods  and  chattels  of  William  de  Chirchehull  canon 
of  Cicestre  deceased,  late  one  of  the  guardians  of  the  temporalities 
of  the  bishopric  of  Worcester  void  by  the  death  of  William  the  last 
bishop,  to  be  delivered  to  Master  William  de  Wymundham  parson 
of  St.  Mary  '  atte  Stronde'  without  New  Temple  Bar  London,  or  to 
John  Bisshopiston  clerk,  John  Wyke  clerk,  William  Doyly  and  Robert 
Dys  his  attorneys,  in  order  that  he  may  content  the  king  for  10s.  the 
price  thereof,  sending  again  one  part  of  such  indenture  to  the  exchequer 
at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter,  also  this  writ  ;  as  Robert  de 
Assheton  the  treasurer  has  witnessed  in  chancery  that  the  said  parson 
has  found  security  at  the  exchequer  to  content  the  king  for  the  price 
of  the  said  goods,  which  are  in  the  king's  hands  as  well  in  the  Canons' 
street  Cicestre  as  in  the  body  of  the  said  canon's  prebend  of  Thorneye, 
which  said  canon  at  his  death  was  bound  to  the  king  to  render  account 
of  the  issues  of  the  temporalities  aforesaid,  and  the  said  bishop  of 
Cicestre  by  the  king's  command  caused  his  goods  and  chattels  to  be 
sequestrated,  as  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Hilary  last  he  returned  at  the 
exchequer  at  Westminster. 

March  31.  To  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  king's  fleet  to  the  westward, 
Westminster,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  cause  all  ships  of  twenty  tuns  burden 
and  upwards,  and  all  seamen  who  shall  be  found  within  his  admiralty 
within  liberties  and  without,  to  be  arrested  without  delay,  so  as  to 
be  ready  to  sail  on  the  king's  service  at  his  wages  whenever  they 
shall  have  warning  on  his  behalf,  taking  of  the  owners  and  masters 
of  such  ships  security  that  they  shall  have  their  ships  ready  for  that 
service,  and  of  the  said  seamen  and  every  of  them  likewise  that  they 
shall  not  withdraw  to  distant  parts  without  special  licence,  but 
shall  be  ready  for  service  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  distraining  and 
compelling  them  if  need  be  to  find  security  as  aforesaid  in  such 
manner  as  shall  seem  best. 

March  23.        To  John  Welde  escheator  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire.     Order  to 
Westminster,  cause  Edward  brother  and  heir  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Benstede 
tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands,  which  came 
to  the  king's  hands  by  the  said  father's  death  and  by  reason  of  the 
s  nonage  of  John  the  son,  who  died  within  age  and  in  the  king's  ward- 

ship, and  so  are  in  the  king's  hand  ;  as  the  said  Edward  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [30947.] 

To  Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton 
and  in  Wiltesir.  Like  order  ;  as  the  said  Edward  has  proved  his 
age  before  John  Welde. 

The  like  to  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire. 


MEMBRANE  15. 

April  1.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Haycroft  lately  elected,  who  has    his    abode    in 
Berkshire  as  the  king  has  learned. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  I.  303 


1376.  Mi  mbrane  15 — cont. 

March  12.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Cork  in  Ireland,  and  the 
minster,  keeper  of  the  king's  gaol  there.  Order  at  their  peril,  for  particular 
causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  to  cause  Gerard  son  of 
Raymond  Caunton  and  Edmund  son  of  Gerald  ("aunt on,  who  are 
taken  and  there  imprisoned  for  certain  misprisions  against  the  king 
and  his  majesty,  to  be  there  kept  in  safe  custody  until  special  order 
of  the  king  without  mainprise  or  any  other  delivery  :  certifying  under 
their  seals  in  the  chancery  of  England  the  cause  wherefore  the  said 
prisoners  are  taken  and  detained,  and  sending  again  this  writ.      By  C. 

April  1.  To  John  de  Hale  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  take  of  Alice  ulm 

Westminster,  was  wife  of  Edmund  de  Clyvedon,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the 
heirs  of  Edward  le  Despenser  and  Nicholas  Seymour  tenants  in  chief 
who  are  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  an  oath  that  she  will 
not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  Robert  de 
Assheton,  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds 
thereof,  or  of  his  attorney  if  being  warned  he  will  attend,  to  assign 
her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death,  the  manor  of  Milton  excepted,  saving  her  dower  of  thai 
manor  if  she  be  thereof  dowable  according  to  the  law  and  custom 
of  England  ;  and  order,  to  send  such  assignment  under  seal  to  be 
enrolled   in  chancery. 

April  3.  To  the  bailiffs  and  true  men  of  the  town  of  St.  Botolph.     Order  on 

Westminster,  sight  of  these  presents  forthwith  to  assemble  together,  and  having 
considered  the  matter  so  to  deal  in  buying  and  selling  '  stokfissh 
that  bydefault  of  them  or  any  of  them  no  excessive  dearness  thereof  shall 
arise  in  that  port  or  elsewhere  within  the  realm,  nor  shall  any  man  within 
that  port  embrace  such  fish,  that  by  their  default  touching  this  matter 
the  king  be  not  a  second  time  vexed  a)  the  complaint  of  the  people  ; 
as  in  consideration  that  a  certain  fish  so  called  is  landed  in  that  port 
before  other  porta  more  than  was  wont,  and  that  in  divers  parts  of  the 
realm  great  dearness  thereof  has  now  arisen,  and  it  is  doubted  that 
much  more  w  ill  it  arise  hereafter  to  the  hurt  of  all  the  commons  if  a 
speedy  remedy  be  not  applied,  it  is  the  king's  will  so  to  deal  as  may 
tend  to  the  common  advantage,  as  he  is  bound  to  do. 

Apiil    Is.  To    the    mayor    and    sherd)    of    Bristol.      Order,    upon    the    petition 

tminster.  of   Walter   Derby  of    Bristol,   to  cause   two  ships  of  Spain    lately   taken 

at    sea    by    the    king's    lieges    and    brought    to    lhat     port    to    he    there 

appraised  by  merchants  and  others  having  the  best  knowledge  therein, 

and  to  he  without  delay  delivered  by  indenture  to  the  said  Walter 
according  to  such  appraisement  by  mainprise  ot  Adam  de  I [ertyngdon 
the  kin/-  clerb  and  Richard  Lyons  citizen  of  London,  sending  the 
appraisement  into  chancery  under  their  seals  and  the  seals  of  the 
appraisors,  and  certifying  all  their  action  in  that  behalf  when  tlu\ 
shall  have  executed  this  command  ;  as  the  said  petition  -Ikw-  that  a 
Ship  of  the  said  Walter  laded  with  di\ei-  goods  ami  merchandise  was 
lately  at  sea  in  host  He  manner  taken  and  carried  awa\   by  men  of  Spain, 

praying  that  in  pan  of  In-  recompense  he  maj  have  the  Baid  ships 
of  Spain  which  have  long  been  detained  in  the  pott  of  Bristol,  finding 
,i  mainprise  to  answer  tin-  king  ot-  to  them  of  Spain  for  the  true  value 
oi-  the  price  ot  those  ships  in  case  restitution  thereoi   shall   hereafter 

be    idjlldged  h\    the  king  and  council  ,    and  the  said  Adam  and  Khhard 


304 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376. 


Membrane  15 — cont. 


appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  the  said  Walter 
that  he  shall  be  ready  truly  to  answer  as  aforesaid  to  the  king  or  the 
owners  of  those  ships  according  to  order  of  the  council. 

April  22.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a    coroner    to    be    elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Girerden,  who  is  dead. 

MEMBRANE  14. 

March  25.  To  Maurice  fitz  Thomas  earl  of  Kildare  and  justiciary  of  Ireland. 
w  tminster.  Order  to  take  of  John  Mauclcrk  security  that  he  shall  come  hither 
in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next  to  answer  according  to  the  law 
and  custom  of  Ireland  touching  whatsoever  shall  be  laid  against  him, 
"and  thereby  to  suffer  him  to  be  delivered  to  bail  and  set  free  from 
prison,  and  freely  to  come  to  the  king  in  England  ;  as  on  behalf  of 
the  said  John  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  at  the  king's  command  he 
was  lately  chosen  by  the  commons  of  Ireland  to  journey  to  England 
in  order  to  make  declaration  in  the  council  for  the  king's  profit 
touching  certain  business  which  concerns  the  king  and  the  estate  and 
ruling  of  Ireland,  and  that  to  prevent  his  coming  to  the  king  for  that 
cause  he  is  taken  and  there  imprisoned  for  certain  alleged  evildoings  for 
which  he  is  indicted  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  furtherance 
of  the  said  business  shall  not  by  such  means  be  deferred. 

April  4.  To  Gerard  fitz  Moriz  earl  of  Desmund  and  Thomas  fitz  Johan.     Order, 

Westminster,  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  to  cease  all 
excuse  and  deliver  by  indenture  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Water- 
ford  to  be  there  kept  in  prison  in  their  custody  until  the  king  shall 
send  further  order  for  their  deliverance  Geoffrey  Mor  fitz  Henry 
Migiboun,  Philip  Cam  fitz  Davy,  Richard  fitz  Davy  and  Gilbert  fitz 
Davy  who  are  taken  and  imprisoned  in  Ireland  under  the  custody 
of  the  said  earl  and  Thomas  for  certain  contempts  and  evildoings 
in   Ireland   committed.  By  C. 

April  10.  To  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England. 
Westminster.  Order  to  attorn  tenant  to  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Graunson 
knight  tenant  in  chief  concerning  43s.  of  rent  issuing  from  the  said  prior's 
manor  of  Sutton,  and  to  pay  her  that  rent  every  year  at  the  usual 
terms  from  14  February  last  ;  as  on  that  day  the  king  ordered 
Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent  in  the  presence  of  the  heirs 
to  assign  to  the  said  Margaret  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment 
to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  and  the  escheator  has  certified  in  chancery 
that  by  virtue  of  that  command  he  has  assigned  to  her  the  rent 
aforesaid. 

April  11.         To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  and  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.     Order    of    the    king's    favour   to    set    free    the    prior    of 

St.  Frideswide  Oxford,  who  is  taken  at  the  king's  command  and  there 

imprisoned  under  their  custody,  suffering  him  to  go  his  way.     By  K. 

April  3.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Surrey.     Order  to  deliver  to 

Westminster.  Simon  Durant  and  Margaret  his  wife  a  messuage,  26  acres  of  land 

and  1^  acre  of    meadow  in  Okstede,  together  with  the  issues  thereof 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    I.  305 


1376.  Membrane   14 — cord. 

taken  since  the  death  of  Agnes  atte  Bergh  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  eecheator,  thai  the  said  Agnes,  being  an 
idiot,  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne 
as  of  fee,  but  that  the  premises,  which  are  not  held  of  the  king,  came  to 
the  king's  hands  bj  reason  of  her  idiocy  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that 
she  died  on  Thursday  after  the  Epiphany  last,  and  that  the  said 
Margaret  is  her  cousin  and  next  heir,  being  daughter  of  John  Wylot 
u  of  John  Wylot  brother  of  Stephen  atte  Bergh  father  of  Alice 
mother  of  the  said  Agnes,  and  is  of  full  age. 

April  28.  I  hrder  to  the  sheriff  of  Huntingdon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

kminster.  instead  of  Walter  Lassels,  who  has  his  abode  without  the  county. 
wherefore  he  has  not  leisure  to  exercise  the  office  of  coroner,  as  the 
king  has  learned. 

MEMBRANE   13. 

Feb.  20.  To  Richard  Ryhale  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Upton 
upon  Severn  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Edward  le 
Despenser  knight,  delivering  to  Elizabeth  his  wife  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Edward  and  Elizabeth  at  his  death  held  that  manor 
jointly  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Lambert  de  Weston  knight  and  John  de 
Aldrynton  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same 
is  not  held  of  the  king. 

Feb.  22.  To    John    Rokewode  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  to  remove  the 

bminster.  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Carleton, 
Middelton,  Clopton,  Little  Welnetham,  Blaxsale,  Swynlond,  Wyttnes 
ham,  Cokefeld  and  Fenhall  and  the  advowsons  of  Carleton,  Middilton, 
Clopton.  Little  Welnetham  and  Chesilford,  all  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Edward  le  Despenser.  delivering  to  Elizabeth 
his  wife  any  issues  taken  of  those  manors  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Edward  si  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  thai  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee.  but 
held  the  said  manors  and  advowsons  of  her  right  and  heritage,  and  that 
they  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Feb.  24.         To  Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Berefordshire  and  the  march 

Westmin  ter.  of  Wale-  adjacent.      Order  to  deliver  to  Elizabeth  wife  of   Edward  le 

Despenser  knight  tenant  in  chief  tin-  oastle  and  a  moiety  of  the  lordship 

of   Ewyas   in  the  said   march   taken  into  the  king's  hand    h\    her  -  ud 

husband's  death,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;   as  the  king 

has    learned    by    inquisition,    taken    by    the    escheator.    that    the    said 

Edward  at  bis  death  held  the  premises  of  her  righl  and  heritage,  and 

that   they  are  held  in  chief  b\    knighl   seiviec  .    and  the  k i 1 1  «_r  has  taken 

the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Elizabeth.  By  p.s.  [30990.] 

Feb.  22.         To  Edmund  de  I'.iu  oheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  Hereford 

w .  t  iii  i  n -o  i    -luii-  and  in  the  m  arch  of  Wales  adjacent.     Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to 

Elizabeth  who  was   wife  of  Edward  le   Despenser  knighl    tenant   in 

chief  such  ai  are  in  In-  bailiwiok  of  the  castles,  towns,  manors  and 

lands  following  which  the  king  h  i  ed  to  bea  of  hex  said  husband's 

CK    N 


306  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

lands  etc.  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason 
of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  having  taken  of  her  an  oath  that  she  will 
not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  namely  the  castle  and  town  of 
Keryfilly  in  the  march  of  Wales  extended  at  13?.  2s.  Id.  a  year,  the 
country  of  Sengh'  above  and  below  Caugh'  at  1221.  3s.  10c?.,  the  hamlet 
of  Rot  her  \r  at  19/.  10s.,  Enysuaylgoun  with  appurtenances  at 
291.  19s.  5c?.,  the  manor  of  Whytechurch  at  10?.  lis.  6c?.,  the  manor 
and  country  of  Talvan  at  37?.  9s.  6fe?.,  the  town  of  Coubrugge  at 
14?.  7s.  7c?.,  the  castle  and  manor  of  Lanblethian  at  69?.  15s.  lie?., 
the  country  of  Ruthyn  at  13?.  lis.  6c?.  all  in  the  said  march,  the  manor 
and  borough  of  Teukesbury  co.  Gloucester  at  132?.  17s.  10c?.,  the 
manor  of  Faireford  at  47?.  17s.  8c?.,  the  foreign  court  of  Bristol  at 
10?.,  the  castle  and  manor  of  Haneleye  co.  Worcester  at  10?.  lis.  4c?., 
the  manor  of  Bischeley  at  7?.  8s.  8|c?.,  the  manor  of  Stanford  co.  Berkes 
at  34?.  10s.  6c?.,  the  manor  of  Yelvertoft  co.  Norhampton  at  6?.  13s.  4c?. 
and  the  hundred  of  Chadlynton  co.  Oxford  not  extended  over  and 
above  the  farm  of  110s.  due  for  the  same  to  the  king,  rendering  yearly 
to  the  king  until  the  lawful  age  of  the  heir,  and  thenceforward  to  the 
said  heir,  10s.  4c?.  which  is  the  excess  of  her  said  dower. 

To  Richard  Ryhale  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  to  deliver 
in  dower  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Edward  le  Despenser  knight 
the  castle  and  manor  of  Hanley  and  the  manor  of  Bischeley,  extended 
(as  above),  which  among  other  castles,  towns,  manors  and  lands  of 
her  said  husband  the  king  has  assigned  to  her. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  Berkshire,  concerning  the  manor 

of  Stanford. 
John    Camels     escheator    in    Norhamptonshire,   concerning  the 

manor  of  Yelvertoft. 
Nicholas    Somerton    escheator    in    Oxfordshire,    concerning    the 
hundred  of  Chadlynton. 

May  22.  To  Walter  Holt  escheator  in  Leycestershire.     Order  to  deliver  to 

Westminster.  Elizabeth  late  wife  of  Edward  le  Despenser  knight  the  advowson  of 
Boseworth  church,  namely  to  present  every  fourth  turn,  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  her  said  husband's  death  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said 
Edward  held  the  same  of  her  right  and  heritage,  and  that  she  will 
now  present  at  the  first  turn  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  her  homage 
and  fealty. 

MEMBRANE   12. 

May  23.  To  John  atte  Hale  escheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  deliver  in 

Westminster,  dower  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Edward  le  Despenser  knight 
tenant  in  chief  such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick  of  the  knights'  fees  and 
parts  of  fees  following  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  of  the  fees 
of  her  said  husband  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  namely  one  knight's  fee  in 
Pubbelowe  formerly  held  by  Edmund  de  Sancto  Laudo  clerk,  John 
Lupyete  parson  of  Bakwell,  William  Vyriour  parson  of  Aire  and 
Nicholas  Saltkoc  parson  of  Neweton  Seynlo  and  extended  at  15?.  a 
year,  one  knight's  fee  in  Neweton    Seynlo   at  15?.,  2\  knights'  fees 


50  EDWARD  III.     Paw  I.  307 


137<».  Membrane  12 — <*ut. 

in  Estharpetre  held  by  John  Deverous  at  30/..  l{  knight's  fee  in 
stoke  Giffard  held  by  John  Rodeney  knighl  at  207..  one  Knight's  fee 
in  Baluetre  and  Littelton  hold  l>\  the  abbot  of  Keyneeham,  Walter 
Romeseye  knight  and  Maud  Basset!  at  in/.,  two  knights'  fees  in 
Weetludeford  held  by  James  de  Audele  at  H'/..  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Upton  Caboche  held  by  Edward  Burne]  at  10  marks, 
one  knight's  fee  in  Meryet  held  by  John  Meryel  knighl  at  20/..  the 
fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Northovere  held  by  the  master  of  the 
hospital  of  Bridge  ater  (Ponfc  irulti  r)  at  100s., three  quarters  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Asshton  now  held  by  Robert  de  Assheton  at  LOO*.,  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Bakwell  formerly  held  by  John  de  Rodeney 
knight  at  lu/..  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Wyn  ford  held  by  the 
said  John  de  Rodeney  at  30*.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Wodecombe  held  by  Matthew  de  Clyvedon  at  20s.,  the  fourth  part  of 
one  knight's  fee  in  Ragelbury  held  by  the  abbot  of  Flaxlegh  at  100s., 
the  tenth  part  of  one  knight's  foe  in  Bicheuestoke  held  by  Nicholas  Ive 
at  40*.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Bicheuestoke  held  by 
Nicholas  de  Sancto  Laudo  at  40*.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Stokwode  held  by  the  abbot  of  Keyneeham  at  40s.,  If  knight's 
fee  in  Pegelynche  and  Farlegh  held  by  Thomas  de  Hungerford  knight 
and  the  prior  of  Benton  at  ."50/..  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Northovere  held  by  Richard  Brice  at  100s.,  one  knight's  fee  in 
Hentonbluet  now  held  by  Robert  Cheddre  at  40s.,  one  knight's  fee 
in  Baluetre  formerly  held  by  John  de  Rodeneye  knight  at  40*  ,  the 
fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Bedmynstre  held  by 
Thomas  de  Berkelegh  at  20/.,  three  quarters  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Asshcombe  held  by  Richard  Arthur  at  151.,  two  knights'  lees 
in  Bristilton  held  by  John  le  Warre  knight  at  40/..  the  fourth 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  MQggel  now  held  by  Richard  de  Acton 
at  LOO*.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight  *8  fee  in  Wellewe  formerly  held  by 
Thomas  de  rl  ungerford  at  20/..  one  knight's  fee  in  Tuyverton  held  by 
John  de  Rodeney  at  10/..  the  sixteenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Bakerich  held  by  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Bristol  at  10*.,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Etadestoke  now  held  by  William  Banastre  at  20/..  one  knight's 
fee  in  Dynygton  held  by  Ellis  (k%  la  Lynde  at  151.,  one  knight's  fee 
LnClopton  formerly  held  by  Richard   Arthour  at    15/.,  the  fourth  part  of 

one  knight's  fee  in  Capenore  held  l>\  Walter  Laurence  the  younger  at 
10*.,  the  moietj  of  one  knight's  fee  in  BakweU  held  by  John  de  Rodeney 
knighl  a1  10/..  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Wynford  held  by 
M  nid  Basset  at  LOO*.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Bodeoombe 
held  by  the  master  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John  Bristol  at  20*.,  and 
one  knight's  fee  in  Clyvedon  held  by  Edmund  de  Clyvedon  now 
dec*  used  it  MM.  all  in  the  same  county,  one  knight's  fee  in  Severnestoke 
pertaining  to  the  manor  of  Banley  oo.  Worcester  at  LOO*.,  one  knight's 

fee   in   (  'haddesley  Corbet    pertaininir  to  the  said    manor  at    LOO*.,   one 

knighl  fee  in  Bldresfeld  pertaininfl  to  the  manor  oi  Bisohelej 
oo  Worcester  at  LOO*.,  one  knight's f«  m  Clifton coJ  Houoesterno^  held 
by  John  de  Sancto  Laudo  at  LOO*,  the  moiety  oi  one  knight's  fee  in 
Aliinton  now  held  by  the  abbol  oi  Oseneye  at  10*.,  the  moiety  oi  one 
knight'e  fee  in  Sharnecote  Netheroote  and  Sodyngton  now  held  \<\ 
Rogei  ap  \il.i in  .tt  10  .  and  the  moiet}  oi  one  knight's  fee  in  Estleohe 
now  held  by  the  heirs  oi  Berbert  de  Sancto  Quintino  at  40*.  all  in 
Gloucestershire  in1,  knights  fees  in  Burleecombe  and  Lomene  Clavyle 
co.  Devon  with  the  membei  •  at  521   LO  .,  the  moiety  oi  one  knight's  fee 


308  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  *  Membrane  12 — cont. 

in  Bideforde  now  held  by  Theobald  de  Greneville  at  20Z.,  one  knight's 
fee  in  Kilkampton  now  held  by  the  said  Theobald  at  40Z.,  five  knights' 
fees  in  Devon  now  held  by  Dame  de  Blount  at  50  marks,  and  one 
knight's  fee  in  Calwodele  in  the  same  county  now  held  by  Andrew  de 
Calwodele  at  60s.,  one  knight's  fee  in  Landowe  in  the  march  of  Wales 
now  held  by  John  Wynchestre  at  10/.,  and  one  knight's  fee  in 
St.  Donat  in  the  said  march  now  held  by  Robert  Ryvers  and  Thomas 
Hye  and  extended  at  20  marks  a  year. 

To  Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  the 
march  of  Wales  adjacent.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  Elizabeth 
who  was  wife  of  Edward  le  Despenser  knight  the  knights'  fees  and  parts 
of  fees  following  of  her  said  husband  which  among  others  the  king  has 
assigned  to  her,  namely  one  knight's  fee  in  Clifton,  the  moiety  of 
one  knight's  fee  in  Alrinton,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Sharnecote,  Nethercote  and  Sodyngton,  and  the  moiety  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Estleche  co.  Gloucester,  one  knight's  fee  in  Landowe  and  one 
knight's  fee  in  St.  Donat  in  the  said  march  (tenants  and  extents  as  above). 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Richard  Ryhale  escheator  in  Worcestershire,  concerning  one 
knight's  fee  in  Severnestoke,  one  knight's  fee  in  Chaddesley 
Corbet,  and  one  knight's  fee  in  Eldresfeld  (appurtenant  as 
above  ;  extents  as  above). 
John  de  Mattesford  escheator  in  Devon,  concerning  lOf  knights' 
fees  in  Burlescombe  and  Lomene  Clavyle  with  the  members, 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Bydeford  and  one  knight's 
fee  in  Kilkampton  held  by  Theobald  de  Greneville,  five  knights' 
fees  held  by  Dame  de  Blount,  and  one  knight's  fee  in  Calwodele 
held  by  Andrew  de  Calwodele  (extended  as  above). 

To  Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  the  march  of 
Wales  adjacent.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of 
Edward  le  Despenser  knight  tenant  in  chief  such  as  are  in  his  bailiwick 
of  the  advowsons  following,  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  of 
the  advowsons  of  churches,  abbeys  and  priories  of  her  said  husband 
in  England  and  Wales,  namely  the  advowsons  of  Teukesbury  abbey 
co.  Gloucester  extended  at  401.  a  year,  of  Kylthergayr  church  at  100s. 
and  of  Rothry  church  in  the  said  march  at  40s.,  of  Allhallows  church 
in  the  city  of  London  at  10  marks,  of  Bychamwelle  church  co.  Norffolk 
at  100s.,  of  Stanford  church  co.  Berkes  at  50  marks,  and  of 
Wyntereslewe  church  co.  Wiltesir  extended  at  41.  a  year. 

To  Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  Berkshire  and  Wiltesir.  Order 
to  deliver  in  dower  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Edward  le  Despenser 
knight  the  advowsons  following  which,  among  others,  the  king  has 
assigned  to  her,  namely  the  advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Stanford 
co.  Berkes  and  Wyntereslewe  co.  Wiltesir  (extended  as  above). 
The  like  to  the  following  : — 

John  Warde  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein, 
concerning  the  advowson  of  Allhallows  church  in  that  city 
{extended  as  above). 
John  Rokewode  escheator  in  Norffolk,  concerning  the  advowson 
of  Bychamwelle  church  (extended  as  above). 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  I.  309 


137(,.  MEMBRANE    11. 

April  26.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Pevense  co.  Sussex.  Order  to  cause  a  bond  ol 
bminster.  Simon  llcinlcnian  and  John  Burrnusbury  for  lOOf.  to  be  delivered 
to  the  Baid  Simon  and  John,  not  troubling  them  in  aught  by  reason 
thereof  ;  a.s  lately  they  laded  in  that  port  <>o  quarters  of  coin  of  div< 
kinds  to  take  to  t  lie  city  of  London  for  sustenance  of  the  nuns  minore 
of  London,  and  the  bailiffs  arrested  thai  corn,  alleging  thai  they  might 
take  DO  corn  anywhere  OUl  of  that  county  without  the  king's  licence, 
and  kept  the  same  under  arrest,  as  the  king  has  learned,  until  the 
-aid  Simon  and  John  made  them  the  said  bond  for  their  security. 

May  3.  To  Thomas  de  llleston  escheator  in  Sussex  and  Kent.     Order  to 

Westminster,  keep  the  manor  of  Walderne  in  the  king's  hand  until  further  order, 
and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  the  residue 
of  the  manors  and  the  rent  hereinafter  mentioned  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas  de  Ponynges  knight  tenant  in 
chief,  saving  the  condition  contained  in  the  schedule  hereinafter 
rehearsed,  delivering  up  the  issues  thereof  taken  except  of  the  said 
manor  of  Walderne  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Thomas  being  lately  seised  of  the 
manors  of  Ponynges,  Pengedene,  Ureat  Perehvnge.  Little  Perchynge, 
Bangelton,  Slagham,  Crawele,  Tuynem  and  Walderne  and  of  6  marks 
of  rent  in  Ifeld  co.  Sussex,  and  of  the  manor  of  Bosmynden  co.  Kent, 
ve  the  same  to  Arnald  Savage  and  William  de  Llvugton  knights. 
John  Newemarche,  William  Tauke,  Roger  Dalyngrygge,  Hugh 
Walton  and  John  Baker  chaplain,  the  said  manors  and  rent  in  Susses 
for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  Blanche  wife  of  the  said  Thomas,  and 
the  said  manor  of  Hosmenden  for  the  life  of  the  said  Blanche,  and 
that  all  the  premises  are  held  of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  by  declara- 
tion of  his  last  will  the  said  Thomas  willed  that  the  said  (coffees 
should  first  pay  his  debts,  and  should  surrender  to  the  said  Blanche 
for  her  life,  if  she  should  remain  unmarried,  all  their  estate  in  the 
premises,  the  manor  of  Walderne  excepted,  and  that  in  case  she 
should  be  married  it  should  be  lawful  for  the  right  heir  of  the  said 
Thomas  to  enter  the  premises,  with  the  exception  aforesaid,  and 
possess  the  same  as  the  true  heir,  and  lor  the  manor  ol  Walderne  he 
willed    that     the    said    feoffees    should    thereof    enfeoff    the    said    John 

Bakere  for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  the  said  Blanche,  if  before  the 

death   of  the  said  Thomas  he  should   not    be  advanced    by  gift    of  the 
said    Thomas    to    some    church    or    other    competent    maintenance,    as 

appears  by  the  schedule  aforesaid  sealed  with  the  seal  of  the  said 

Thomas    and    enrolled    in    chaneeiy    ;     and    it    is    witnessed    in    chancery 

before  the  king  and  council  that  the  said  John  Bakere  was  advanced 
by  the  said  Thomas  in  his  lifetime. 

May  5.  To  all  and  singular,  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  other 

Westminster,  the  king's  lieges  within  liberties  and  without   to  whom  etc.      Order  not 

to  compel  tin-  i  inn  and  tenants  ,,f  t  he  manor  of  ( 'l\  \  e  co.  Xorhampt  on . 

vfhich  is  of  the  ancient  demesne  of  the  crown  u  appears  bj  cortini 

t  into  chancery  at  the  king's  eon  i  ma  ml  by  the  treasurer  and  the  (ham 
berlaini   to  paj  toll  upon  their  property    goods  or  tn<  rchandise  what 
ever,  but  to  suffer  them  to  be  thereof  quit,  releasing  anj  distress  foi 
that  cau  <    made  upon  then       is  according  to  the  onstom  hereto! 

QSed   and   kept    in  tin    realm,  men  and   tenants  ol   the  ancient   demesne 


510  CALENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1 3 7 ( i .  Me mbra ne   II  — cont 

:  th.e  crown  ar< 
te  realm. 
Et  erat  patens 


of  the  crown  are  and  ought  to  be  quit  of  such  payment  throughout 
the  realm. 


MEMBRANE   10. 

May  1.  To  the  sheriff  of  York  for  the  time  being.     Order  to  pay  to  John  de 

Westminster.  Berden  of  York  the  arrears  since  6  September  last  of  Qd.  a  day,  and 
henceforward  to  pay  him  that  daily  sum  every  year  during  his  life, 
taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  at  the  petition  of  Walter  Whitehors  the 
king's  esquire,  to  whom  the  king  on  20  June  in  the  43rd  year  of  his 
reign  granted  by  letters  patent  the  keeping  of  his  pond  of  Fosse  by 
York  for  life  with  the  wages  and  fees  to  that  office  belonging,  and 
for  that  the  said  Walter  gave  up  those  letters  patent  to  be  cancelled 
in  chancery,  the  king  on  6  September  last  by  letters  patent  granted 
the  keeping  thereof  to  the  said  John  for  life  with  the  wages  and  fees 
aforesaid  ;  and  by  certificate  of  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer  sent  into  chancery  at  the  king's  command  it  appears  that 
6d.  a  day  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff  are  allowed  to  the  said  Walter 
for  keeping  the  said  pond. 
Et  erat  patens. 

May  3.  To  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  king's  fleet  to  the  westward, 

Westminster,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Paravesirms  merchant 
of  Genoa  (Janua),  proctor  of  Moruellus  Damare  merchant  of  Genoa, 
to  cause  a  ship  called  '  la  Seint  Antoine  '  of  Genoa  to  be  delivered 
to  the  said  proctor  with  all  her  gear  at  the  time  of  the  capture  thereof, 
and  reasonable  freight  for  the  goods  and  merchandise  then  on  board, 
which  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  are  to  be  detained  by  the 
admiral  and  lieutenant  within  the  realm,  likewise  209  quintals  of  iron 
bought  at  St.  Sebastian  if  the  said  proctor  may  prove  the  same  to  be 
of  the  said  Moruellus,  that  for  lack  of  speedy  justice  done  by  the 
admiral  and  lieutenant  the  said  proctor  may  not  a  second  time  have 
matter  for  complaint  to  the  king  and  council  ;  as  the  said  petition 
shews  that  the  said  Moruellus  bought  the  said  ship  at  Lesclus  in 
Flanders,  and  freighted  the  same  with  the  said  iron  and  with  other 
goods  and  merchandise  to  be  taken  to  foreign  parts,  and  after  touched 
at  the  island  of  Baspaule  in  Brittany,  and  that  some  of  the  king's 
subjects  of  the  town  of  Plymmuth,  pretending  that  this  merchandise 
was  of  the  king's  enemies,  took  the  said  ship  with  the  iron  and  other 
goods,  brought  them  within  the  realm,  and  unlawfully  detained 
ship  and  goods  and  withheld  the  freight  due  to  the  said  Moruellus, 
praying  for  delivery  and  payment  thereof  ;  and  by  letters  sealed  as  well 
with  the  seal  of  Robert  Beaumaners  captain  of  Morlas  in  Brittany  as 
with  the  common  seal  of  the  town  of  Bruges,  and  by  notarial  instruments 
produced  before  the  king  and  council,  it  is  plain  that  the  ship  is  of  the 
said  Moruellus,  and  it  is  witnessed  before  the  king  and  council  that 
he  is  of  the  king's  friendship  as  are  others  of  Genoa,  and  it  is  the  king's 
will  friendly  to  entreat  him  according  to  the  concord  made  between 
the  king  and  them  of  Genoa.  Proviso  that  the  residue  of  the  goods 
and  merchandise  aforesaid  be  safe  kept  for  those  to  whom  they  ought 
lawfully  to  be  delivered  hy  way  of  reprisal  or  otherwise. 

May  5.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  Lascy,  who  is  dead. 


50  KDWARI)  III.—  Pakt    I.  311 


1376.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

May  ti.  i  hrder  to  the  sheriff  oi  Bases  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  ol  Richard  Soarry,  who  is  dead. 

MEMBRANE  9. 

M  iv  12.  Order  to  the  Bheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  two  verderers  m  the  foreel 

minster,  of  Waltham  to  be  elected  instead  of  Thomas  Banyard  and  Edmund 
Warner,  who  are  dead. 

May  (i.  To  the  governor,  guardian  or  justiciary  of  Ireland,  and  the  chancellor. 

minster,  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland  for  the  time 
being,  and  to  every  of  them.  Order,  if  a  yearly  pension  of  13  marks 
payable  at  the  Nativity  of  St.  Mary  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  Christ 
Church  Canterbury  is  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  ordinance 
hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  no  other  cause,  to  deliver  the  same 
to  the  said  prior  without  delay  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken, 
suffering  him  or  his  attorney  without  let  to  have  and  take  that  pen 
sion  as  before  the  said  ordinance,  the  prior's  absence  or  the  said 
ordinance  notwithstanding  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  prior  and  convent 
it  is  shewn  the  king  that  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Tintern  (d<  Voto) 
in  Ireland  are  bound  to  them  and  their  successors  in  the  said  pension 
for  certain  ecclesiastical  tithes  traits,  oblations  and  obventions  in 
Ireland  which  the  prior  of  Christ  Church  with  the  assent  of  the  chapter 
formerly  gave  to  the  said  abbot  and  convent  and  to  their  suoce  sors, 
but  that  by  virtue  of  an  ordinance  lately  made  at  Gildeford,  thai  every 
man  having  lordships  and  possessions  in  Ireland  should  under  pain  of 
forfeiture  thereof  before  Easter  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign  come 
thither  or  send  men  sufficient  there  to  abide  upon  the  defence  of  the  same, 
alt  hough  the  said  pension  is  a  spirituality  and  due  to  them  in  recompense 
for  spiritualities,  the  same  is  taken  into  the  king's  hand  as  if  it 
were  a  temporal  pension,  which  it  is  not.  praying  for  restitution  ; 
and  it  has  been  agreed  by  the  king  and  council  that  restitution  be 
made  ol  <ui\  ecclesiastical  possessions  in  Ireland  taken  into  the  kin 
hand  by  reason  of  that  ordinance. 

April   16.  To  »S.  bishop  of  Meath  in  Ireland.      Order  nol  to  meddle  further  with 

i  lands,  now  in  his  keeping  by  the  king's  commission  it  is  said,  assigned 
in  dower  by  William  llger  escheator  in  Ireland  to  Anne  who  \\a.^ 
wife  of  .John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief,  delivering 
to  her  or  her  attorney  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  lit  Decembei  last  . 
a-  on  that  da\  the  king  l>\  writ  ordered  the  said  escheator  to  assign 
and  deliver  t<>  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  in  Ireland  taki  a 
into  the  king's  band  bj  bis  death. 

May  18.         Order  to  th<  sherifl  oi  fork  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
u.  tminster.  of  Thorns     Lascy,  who  is  dead. 

Max  Jo.         To  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop  and  the  march  ol   Wales 

w .  bmin  ter.  adjacent.     Ordei   to  cause  Brian  boh   and   heir  ol  Ueoffrej  de  <  orni 

waille  tenant  iii  chief  t<>  have  Beisin  "t  bis  father's  lands  taken  into  the 

king  -  hand  l>_\  hifl  deat  h  .  as  he  has  pr<>\  ed  his  age  before  the  escheatoi . 

and  the  king  ha    taken  bis  homage  and  fealty.  l>.\  p.s.  [30990.] 

T<>  Richard   Ryhaie  escheator  in   Worcestershire      Like  ordei 
the  laid  Brian  baa  proved  his  age  before  William  Walshale. 


312  CALENDAB  OK  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Membrane  13 — cont. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

John  Karneir  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 
John  Mattesford  escheator  in  Devon. 

Edmund  de  Brugges  escheator  in  Herefordshire  and  the  march 
of  Wales. 

MEMBRANE  8. 

May  1.  To  James  le  Botiller  earl  of  Ormond  late  justiciary  of  Ireland  and 

\\  •  stminster.  Thomas  de  Baddeby  late  treasurer  there.  Order  for  particular  causes 
not  to  meddle  henceforward  in  searching  for  mines  of  gold  and  silver 
in  Ireland,  although  lately  the  king  by  letters  patent  appointed  them 
so  to  do,  and  to  do  certain  other  things  affecting  such  search  ;  for 
it  is  the  king's  will  that  they  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him. 

MEMBRANE  7. 

May  8.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed 

Westminster,  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause 
an  inquisition  which  is  to  be  taken  between  the  king  and  Thomas 
Tatyna  of  Swyneshed  whether  John  son  of  William  Edryk  of  Toft  for 
whose  death  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  pardoned  the  said  Thomas, 
and  John  Souter  of  Swyneshed  for  whose  death  he  is  indicted  before 
the  king,  are  one  and  the  same  person  or  no,  to  be  taken  before  the 
said  justices  or  one  of  them,  or  before  the  justices  of  assize  in  Lincoln- 
shire or  one  of  them. 

MEMBRANE  6. 

May  13.  To  John  de  Rokewode  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  to  take  the 

Westminster,  fealty  of  Joan  wife  of  Ralph  de  Shelton  knight  the  elder  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand 
and  meddle  no  further  with  the  manor  of  Brondilleye,  delivering  to 
her  any  issues  thereof  taken  since  her  said  husband's  death  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
Ralph  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  the  escheator's  bailiwick  in  chief 
in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  said  manor  jointly  with  the 
said  Joan,  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  of  the  king  as  of  the 
honour  of  Helyoun  by  the  service  of  13s.  4d.  a  year. 

May  19.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lancashire  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Bradekirke,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Like  orders  to  the  same  sheriff  for  election  of  coroners  instead  of 
Richard  de  Asshton  of  Adburgham  and  Edmund  Frere,  who  are 
insufficiently  qualified. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lancashire  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest 
of  Quernemore  and  Aymondirnesse  to  be  elected  instead  of  Nicholas 
Gentyll,  who  is  dead. 

Like  order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  for  election  of  a  verderer  in  the 
forest  of  Pykeryng  instead  of  John  de  Pykeryng,  who  is  dead. 

May  22.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton.     Order  to  cause  a  ship  of 

Westminster.  John  Katee  and  John  Hardy  merchants  of  Landreger  and  of  Peter 
Preserak  merchant  of  la  Rochele  called  '  la  Barge  de  Seint  Ive,'  lately 
taken  by  John  Clerk  and  now  in  the  port  of  Suthampton,  to  be  safe 
kept  under  arrest  until  further  order  with  the  wines  and  merchandise 
therein  whatsoever,  nought  being  taken  away. 


50   EDW  VR\     III.— 1 'art   I.  313 


1376.  Membrane  6 — cont. 

May  20.  'J'o  Alan  tie  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  and  to  his 

minster,  lieutenant.     Order  to  .set  free   William   Knolle  of    Dertmouth,  a1    t lie 

king's  command  taken  and  imprisoned  in  the  said  Tower  under  their 

custody,  suffering  him  to  go  his  way.  By  K.  and  C. 

May  24.  To  Gilbert  de  Culwenn  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  certain  lands  in  the 
town  of  Corkeby  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  William  de  Xessefeld 
late  escheator  it  was  said,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
lately  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the 
exchequer  to  search  the  account  of  the  said  William  and  the  memoranda 
of  the  exchequer,  and  to  send  into  chancery  under  the  exchequer  seal 
a  certificate  of  the  cause  wherefore  the  same  were  so  taken,  and  they 
have  certified  that  upon  search  of  the  particulars  of  the  said  account 
from  22  May  in  the  31st  year  to  Michaelmas  in  the  32nd  year  of  the 
reign  an  entry  is  found  concerning  certain  tenements  in  the  town  of 
Corkeby  from  10  May  in  the  32nd  year  on  which  day  they  were  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  to  Michaelmas  following,  shewing  that  the  said 
escheator  so  took  the  premises  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition  that 
Alan  de  Langthwayl  tenant  thereof  in  fee  to  him  and  his  heirs  was 
dead,  who  at  his  death  held  the  same  in  chief  by  homage  by  reason 
of  the  fees  which  were  of  Andrew  de  Harcla  late  an  adherent  of  the 
Scots  the  king's  enemies,  in  the  king's  hand  because  of  the  said  Andrew's 
forfeiture  ;    and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 

Hay  22.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  set  free  Richard  Glovere 
Westminster.  '  armurer  '  from  the  prison  of  the  city  of  London,  discharging  him  and 
his  mainpernors  from  arrest,  and  acquitting  them  of  their  bond  for 
the  day  fixed  by  the  sheriffs  ;  as  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the 
Tower  of  London  has  by  his  bill  signified  in  chancery  that  the  said 
Richard,  being  imprisoned  in  the  Tower  for  a  particular  debt  due  to 
the  king,  lately  by  licence  of  the  said  constable  set  out  thence  for 
particular  business  in  the  said  city  by  a  sufficient  mainprise,  and 
as  he  so  set  out  on  bail  was  by  the  sheriffs  taken  and  arrested  at  the 
Suit    of   certain    persons    of   the   city   and    is    imprisoned    until    he   shall 

find  certain  mainpernors,  bound  in  certain  sums  of  money  to  give  up 

his  body  at   the  said  prison  at  a  set  day  ;    and   it   is  the  king's  will  that 

the  said  Richard  while  the  king's  prisoner  in  the  'lower  for  the  kin 
debt  shall  not  elsewhere  be  arrested  at  i he  suil   <»f  a   party.     Proviso 
that  w  hen  set  free  from  the  To wer  the  said   Richard  shall  straightway 
be  delivered  to  the  sheriffs  to  be  judged. 

Mav  24.         To  all  and  singular  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  provosts,  bailiffs,  ministers 

\\  i.  tnnn  i.  r.  and  ot  her  t  be  king's  lieges  within  liberties  and  w  it  bout  to  whom  etc,  and 

to  everj   oi  them.     Order  to  Buffer  Thomas  now   bishop  oi    Karliol 

and    all    his    men    in    the    manor    and    soke    of    lloincastre    with    their 

appurtenance!  to  be  quil  throughout  the  king's  land  oi  payment  of 
an\  toll  to  the  said  sheriff!  etc.  or  to  anj  oi  them,  not  troubling  neb 
men  or  anj  oi  them  releasing  an\  distress  made  upon  them  for  that 
i  e,  and  making  restitution  of  anj  levi  made  upon  them  .  as  among 
other  liberties  ana  quittances  oi  the  bishop  oi  Karlio]  granted  him  by 
oharu  re  oi  former  tung  panted  thai  be  and  In-  rao*  ind  all 

their   men    in    the  said    manor   and   soke   shall    be    for   BV6J    quit    "I    toll 

toward  the  king  and  Ins  hens,  his  sheriffs,  constables,  provotti  and 


.1 1 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376. 


Membrane  6 — cont. 


May  15. 

Westminster. 


all  his  bailiffs  throughout  the  whole  of  his  land  ;  and  the  king  has 
lately  confirmed  those  charters,  granting  further  to  the  said  bishop 
that  he  and  his  successors  shall  fully  use  and  enjoy  the  liberties  and 
quittances  therein  contained  although  any  of  them  have  not  hitherto 
been  used  by  him  or  his  predecessors. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Fonder  a.] 

MEMBRANE  5. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London  and  the  sheriff  of  Middlesex  for  the  time 
being.  Order  of  the  farm  or  issues  of  the  said  city  and  county  to 
pay  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  church  of  Holy  Trinity  in  the 
city  of  London  the  arrears  since  1  December  in  the  30th  year  of  the 
reign  of  100<s.  yearly,  and  henceforward  to  pay  them  that  sum  every 
year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  taking  their  acquit- 
tance ;  as  at  the  king's  request,  with  the  express  assent  of  Michael 
late  bishop  of  London  and  of  the  dean  and  chapter  of  London,  the 
said  prior  and  convent  lately  granted  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 
Graces  near  the  Tower  of  London  and  to  their  successors  to  possess 
for  ever  certain  oblations,  tithes  and  spiritual  obventions  arising  from 
certain  tenements  and  places  within  the  bounds  of  the  parish  of  St. 
Botolph  without  Algate,  which  the  said  prior  and  convent  hold  appro- 
priated to  their  own  use  in  right  of  their  said  church,  and  from  certain 
persons  inhabiting  the  same  ;  and  willing  to  recompense  the  said 
prior  and  convent  for  the  value  of  the  fruits  etc.  so  granted,  on  the 
date  aforesaid  the  king  by  charter  gave  to  them  and  their  successors 
100s.  to  be  taken  every  year  as  aforesaid  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs. 

Et  erat  patens. 

May  15.  To  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Straunge 
Betton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Margaret  who  was 
wife  of  Hamon  Lestraunge  of  Cheswardyn,  delivering  to  John  Careles 
and  Joan  his  wife,  Edward  de  Acton  and  Eleanor  his  wife  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  it  was  found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the 
king's  command  by  John  de  Perton  then  escheator,  that  the  said 
Margaret  at  her  death  held  that  manor  for  life  with  reversion  to  the 
right  heirs  of  her  said  husband  (likewise  deceased),  and  that  John 
Lestraunge,  son  of  John  Lestraunge  the  younger,  being  cousin  of 
the  said  Hamon,  is  next  heir  of  the  said  Margaret,  and  was  aged  19 
years  on  1  August  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  ;  and  after  on  the 
finding  of  another  inquisition,  taken  likewise  at  the  king's  command 
by  Roger  de  la  Lee  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Margaret  at  her  death 
held  the  said  manor  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  the  said  Hamon  her 
husband  to  them  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  for 
lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Fulk  Lestrange  brother  of  the  said  Hamon 
and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  that  after  her  death  the  same  ought 
by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to  the  said  Joan  wife  of  John  Careles 
and  Eleanor  wife  of  Edward  de  Acton  as  daughters  and  heirs  of  the 
said  Eulk  for  that  the  said  Hamon  and  Margaret  died  without  issue, 
and  that  the  said  Joan  and  Eleanor  are  of  full  age,  the  said  John 
and  Joan,  Edward  and  Eleanor  petitioned  the  king  for  removal  of  his 
hand,  and  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice  to  the  executors 
of  Richard  earl  of  Arundel,  to  whom  the  king  committed  the  wardship 


:>n  Kl>\\  \i:i»  ill.     Pabt  I.  315 


L376.  Membraiu   5    cont. 

of  the  lands  of  the  said  John  son  of  .John  Lestrange  until  the  lawful 
of  his  heir,  to  be  in  chancery  at  a  set  da\  now  past  to  shew  cause  for  the 
kin:_r  and  themselves  wherefore  the  king's  hand  oughl  not  -<>  t<>  be 
removed  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  should  determine, 
and  the  sheriff  returned  that  he  gave  the  said  executors  notice  as  l>\ 
the  writ  required;  and  Richard  now  earl  of  Arundel!  (being  one  ol 
the  said  executors)  and  the  king's  Serjeants  appeared  in  chancery 
at  that  day.  hut  the  residue  of  the  executors  came  ma  and  the  now 
earl  and  the  Serjeants  said  nought  effectual  wherefore  the  king  oughl 
not  to  remove  his  hand  from  the  said  manor  and  the  issues  t  li« -i <  < » t 
taken. 

May   25.  To    .John    de    Poxle    constable    of    Quenesburgh    castle    and    to    his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.     Order  to  receive  of    him  who  shall  deliver  him    Thomas 

1    iterton,    whom  for  particular  causes  the  king  shall  cause  to  be 

delivered  for  safe  custody  to  the  said  constable  and  lieutenant,  and 

to  keep  him  in  safe  custody  in  the  prison  of  that  castle  until  further 

order.  By  K. 

May  24.  To  John  Camels   escheator  in  Xorhamptonshire.     Order  to    deliver 

Westminster,  to  John  de  Estbury  the  younger  the  manor  of  Watford,  38a.  "1   renl 

in  Coldassheby,  9s.  of  rent  in  Greal  Creton,  51«.  of  rent  in  Staverton, 

f>-.  of  rent   in  Westhaddon  and   Ion.  or  rent   in  Welton,  taken  into  the 

king's  hand  by  the  death  oi  Agnes  who  was  the  said  John's  wife,  together 

u  it  h  the  issues  thereof  taken,  to  hold  for  life  by  1  he  courtesy  of  England  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator.  that  it 
her  death  the  said  Agnes  held  two  thirds  of  the  said  manor  and  the 
.•-aid  icnt  in  Coldassheby  in  chief  by  knight  service,  a  third  part  of 
the  said  manor  of  the  king  to  fee  farm  rendering  2<i/.  a  year  at  the 
chequer  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriff,  the  said  rent  in  (.rear 
Creton  of  the  king  as  of  the  honour  of  Chokes,  and  the  residue  of 
the  said  rents  of  others  than  the  king,  that  the  said  John  de  Estbury 
ought  to  hold  the  premises  for  life  as  aforesaid  by  reason  of  issue 
between  them  begotten,  and  that  the  said  issue  is  dead  in  the  life  time 
of  the  said  Agnes. 


"o* 


Julv  21.  To   Walter   Holt   escheator  in    l,evee>ter>hire.      Order  to  remove  the 

-  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Olesthorp 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of    ^gnes  who  was  wife  <>t 
Fohn  de  Estbury  the  younger,  delivering  to  the  -aid  John  ^w\  it 
thereof  taken  ;    as  the  king  has  learned  hj   inquisition,  taken  l>\   the 

heator,  that   the  said    ^gnes  at   her  death  held  the  -aid  manor  m  In  r 

demesne  as  of  tee  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that   the  Baid  John 
oughl  etc.  by  reason  of  issue  etc.  (as  above). 

M  ,  To  John  de  Etokewode  escheator  in  Norffolk.     Order  to  deliver  to  John 

We   trr.in   t'-r.    I'aileoner    22    aire-    o|    land.    0    acn  •    ol     pastUTI  ol    ImliilA.    2 

oi  heath,  ll«.  ol  renl  and  the  moiet}  ol  a  me  juag<   in  Ormeeby 

taken  into  i he  king's  hand  by  the  death  ol  Juliana  who  was  wife  of  the 

ul  John  Pauconer,  together  with  the  issues  thereol  taken,  to  hold 

for  hie  by  tin    oourtesj   oi    England;    ae   it    if   found  b}    inquisition, 

taken  at    the  kin.'       <  I  an  ma  ml   b\    I !  leha  n  I  < le   \\  .i  I  ei  i  !i  n    late    e-eliealor. 
that    a.    la  l    death   the     aid  Juliana   In  Id   the    ju.  I  I    I  In     klli^    111   free 


31rt  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  5 — cont. 

socage  by  the  service  of  2d.  a  year  for  all  service,  and  that  her  said 
husband  ought  to  hold  the  same  for  life  as  aforesaid  by  reason  of  issue 
between  them  begotten  ;   and  the  king  has  taken  his  fealty. 

May  3.  To  Thomas  de  llleston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  cause  John 

Westminster.  Alkham.  son  of  Christina  sister  of  William  son  of  William  Archer  and 
cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  William  Archer  tenant  in  chief,  to  have 
seisin  of  the  said  William  Archer's  lands  which  are  in  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  John's  nonage  ;  as  he  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and 
fealty.  By  p.s.  [30971.] 

June  3.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Dovorre  for  the  time  being. 

Westminster.  Order  to  suffer  the  citizens  of  York,  their  heirs  and  successors  and 
every  of  them,  to  use  and  enjoy  the  liberties  hereinafter  mentioned, 
not  troubling  them  in  aught  contrary  to  the  charters  of  former  kings 
and  the  king's  confirmation  thereof  ;  as  among  other  liberties  and 
quittances  so  granted  to  them  it  is  granted  that  they  and  their  successors 
for  ever  shall  be  quit  of  toll  and  lastage,  of  '  wrek,'  pontage,  passage, 
of  '  trespas  '  and  of  all  customs  throughout  England,  Normandy, 
Aquitaine,  Anjou  and  Poitou  and  all  the  ports  and  sea  coasts  thereof, 
and  that  no  man  shall  trouble  them  on  pain  of  forfeiting  10£.,  and  the 
king  b}'  charter  has  confirmed  those  grants,  further  granting  that  they, 
their  heirs  and  successors  being  citizens  of  York,  shall  henceforward 
without  let  of  the  king  or  his  heirs,  his  justices,  escheators,  sheriffs, 
bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever  fully  use  and  enjoy  the  said  liberties 
and  quittances  and  every  of  them  although  any  of  them  was  not  here- 
tofore used  by  them,  their  ancestors  or  predecessors. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Feeder  a.) 

The  like  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandewich. 

[Ibid.] 

May  13.  To   the   treasurer   and   the   chamberlains.     Order   to   pay   at   the 

Westminster,  exchequer  to  John  de  Harleston  and  Philip  la  Vache,  if  not  yet  contented 
thereof,  1,833.  6<s.  8d.  remaining  over  of  a  sum  of  2,500Z.,  or  to  make 
them  a  competent  assignment  in  places  where  they  may  be  so  contented, 
receiving  from  them  to  be  cancelled  the  king's  letters  patent  promising 
payment  of  the  said  residue  ;  as  for  2,500/.  they  lately  sold  to  the 
king  the  prisoners  following,  namely  John  lord  of  Poys  for  1,500Z. 
and  Walter  Chastillon  for  1,000Z.,  and  of  the  whole  sum  1,000  marks 
is  paid  them  ;  and  on  6  December  in  the  48th  year  of  his  reign  the 
king  by  letters  patent  promised  to  pay  the  residue  to  them,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  or  at  some  other 
place  which  he  shall  appoint,  one  moiety  at  Whitsuntide  then  next 
or  within  three  weeks  after,  the  other  moiety  at  Michaelmas  following 
or  within  three  weeks  after. 
[Ibid.] 

MEMBRANE  4. 

May  30.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed 

Westminster,    to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.     Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause 

an  inquisition  which  remains    to    be  taken  between   the  king    and 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  I.  317 


1376.  Membrane  4 — ront. 

Henry  de  Seburgham  concerning  two  messuages.  40  acres  of  land 
and  5  acres  of  meadow  in  Seburgham  which  wore  of  John  de  Seburgham 
to  be  taken  before  them  the  said  justices  or  one  of  them  or  before  the 
justices  of  assize  in  Cumberland  or  one  of  them. 

June  3.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  any  goods 

Westminster,  and  merchandise  whatsoever  of  the  subjects  of  Charles  the  king's 
adversary  of  France  which  are  in  the  city  of  London  or  come  thither 
to  be  arrested  without  delay,  and  to  be  safe  kept  under  arrest  until 
full  restitution  shall  be  made  to  the  king's  subjects  of  their  goods 
and  merchandise  taken  contrary  to  the  truce  made  between  the  king 
and  his  said  adversary,  or  until  it  shall  be  otherwise  provided  ;  as 
in  the  said  truce  it  is  contained,  among  other  things,  that  during 
the  truce  all  subjects  of  either  party  may  without  let,  arrest  by  marque, 
reprise  or  counterprise,  come  unarmed,  abide,  traffic  and  in  security 
perform  all  other  charges  and  lawful  business  in  the  parts  of  the  others, 
paying  all  duties  in  the  places  appointed  ;  and  now  the  king  has  particu- 
lar information  that  great  number  of  goods  and  merchandise  of  bis 
subjects  are  by  the  subjects  of  the  realm  of  France  now  newly  arrested 
in  France  unlawfully   and  contrary  to  the  truce.  I'.\  C.  in  pari. 

[Feeder  a.] 

June  5.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Faveresham.     Order  to  deliver  brother 

Westminster.  Nicholas  de  Raveneston  canon  of  the  priory  of  St.  Mary  Suthwerk 
to  Edmund  de  Tettesworth  the  king's  Serjeant  at  arms,  to  be  taken 
and  delivered  to  his  prior  for  chastisement  according  to  the  rule  of 
his  order  ;  as  the  said  canon  being  in  that  order  professed  has  with- 
drawn himself  therefrom  contrary  to  the  rule  of  the  order,  and 
moreover  departing  over  sea  without  the  king's  licence  has  there 
done  many  things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  crown,  and 
is  now  on  his  return  detained  under  arrest  in  the  custody  of  the  said 
mayor  and  bailiffs,  as  William  bishop  of  Winchester  has  certified  the 
king  by  word  of  mouth. 

May  28.  To  John  de  Bekyngham  esoheator  in  Derbyshire.     Order  to  remove 

w ■  tmiuster.  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of 
Langeleye  Mevnill,  Yiuleye  and  Xewhalle  and  one  oaruoate  of  land 
in  Helynton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Richard  .Mevnill 
knight,  delivering  to  Joan  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  esoheator,  that  the 
said  Richard  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of 
others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the 
-nd  Joan  by  gift  and  feotl'ment  of  Hugh  in  the  Lone'  parson  ol 
Langelej e  and  others  made  to  them  for  life,  and  that  the  same  are  held 
of  others  than  the  king. 

To  William  Walshale  esoheator  in  Staffordshire,  bike  order, 
mutatis  mutandis, concerning  the  manor  of  Kyngesley,  which  the  said 
Richard  held  jointly  with  the  said  .loan  by  '.nit  and  feoffment  oi  Hugh 
de  Mevnill  knighl  and  otto 

To  Walter  Holt  esoheator  in  Leicestershire,  lake  order,  mutatis 
mutandi     concerning  the  manors  oi  Burton  Novere>  and  Upton 

the  king  has  learned   DJ    imposition  that   the  said   Kichird,  being  latel\ 


318  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

ised  thereof  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  long  before  his  death  enfeoffed 
Richard  de  Bevercotes.  Richard  Byroun,  Hugh  '  in  the  Lane  '  parson 
of  Longeleye.  William  '  of  the  Lee  '  and  Thomas  de  Hyntes  and  their 
heirs  of  the  said  manors,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than 
the  king. 

To  Walter  Holt  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 
Order  to  take  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Richard  Menyll  knight  tenant  in 
chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  in 
presence  of  Richard  Segynton  clerk,  to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the 
wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Kyngesneuton  which  was  the 
said  Richard's,  if  being  warned  he  will  attend,  to  assign  her  dower 
of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 
sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

•June  6.  To  Philip  de  Courtenay  admiral  of  the  fleet  to  the  westward.     Order, 

Westminster,  for  particular  causes,   to  cease  every  excuse,  and  with  all  possible 
speed  to  be  before  the  king  and  other  the  nobles  and  lords  of  England 
in  the  present  parliament  assembled  at  Westminster,  in  order  to  give 
information  to  the  king  and  the  said  nobles  and  lords  touching  certain 
matters  on  which  they  wish  to  be  informed,  bringing  this  writ. 
[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  668.] 
The  like  to  John  Daumarle  late  sheriff  of  Devon. 
[Ibid.] 

June  1.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Droghda  in  Ireland  on  the 

Westminster,  side  of  Uriel,  and  to  the  steward  of  the  liberty  thereof  on  the  side  of 
Meath.  Order  to  suffer  any  of  the  king's  lieges  who  will  bring  over 
to  England  wheat  or  other  kinds  of  corn  whatsoever  to  lade  the  same 
in  ships  from  time  to  time  in  the  port  of  Droghda  and  bring  it  over 
without  let,  provided  always  that  those  who  so  do  shall  pay  charges 
(if  any)  thereupon  due  to  the  king's  use,  and  shall  find  security  severally 
at  every  such  lading  before  the  said  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  the  said 
steward,  for  which  they  will  answer,  that  such  corn  shall  at  their 
peril  not  be  brought  to  any  foreign  parts  or  there  sold,  but  to  England. 

June  13.  To  John  de  Foxle  constable  of  Quenesburgh  castle  and  to  his  lieu- 
Westminster,  tenant.  Order  to  warn  Hugh  la  Souche,  John  Burgh  the  elder,  John 
Burgh  the  younger,  John  Trayle,  Thomas  Fog,  Thomas  Try  vet, 
William  Frank  and  John  Seyvylle,  and  by  their  aid  to  cause  Thomas  de 
Caterton  to  come  with  all  possible  speed  before  the  king  and  the 
nobles  and  lords  of  the  realm  in  the  present  parliament  at  Westminster 
assembled,  bringing  thither  this  writ  ;  as  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the 
said  Thomas  de  Caterton,  taken  and  imprisoned  at  the  king's  command 
in  the  prison  of  the  said  castle  under  the  custody  of  the  constable 
and  lieutenant,  should  be  brought  before  them  with  all  speed,  in 
order  to  give  information  touching  certain  matters  whereof  they  wish 
to  be  informed  ;  and  the  said  Hugh  and  the  others  have  mainperned 
before  the  council  under  pain  of  imprisonment  for"  his  safe  conduct 
thither  by  the  said  constable  and  lieutenant  when  by  the  constable 
or  lieutenant  required,  if  it  should  seem  good  to  the  king.  By  C. 

May  12.  To  Thomas  Sewall  escheator  in  Bedfordshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminster.  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Edward  de  Kendale  the  younger  tenant 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  I.  319 


]  376.  ^ '  'i'1"'"1"    *    -con/. 

in  chief  an  oath  that  .she  will  not  marr\  without  the  king's  licence 
and  to  assign  her  dower  of  her  Baid  husband's  lands  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  he 
enrolled  in  chancery. 

May  23.  To  John  Welde  esoheatoi  in  Essex,  Order  to  remove  the  king's 
Westminster,  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage.  80  acres  of  land. 
5  teres  of  meadow.  7  acres  of  wood  and  4a.  of  rent  in  Aldhani  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  outlawry  of  Roger  atte  Boo, 
delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  sinee  the  said  Roger's  death  ; 
a-  he  was  lately  put  in  exigents  in  Essex  to  be  outlawed,  and  \ 
after  outlawed,  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  king's  justices  to 
answer  .John  de  Henxteworth  concerning  an  alleged  debt,  wherefore 
his  goods  and  chattels  and  his  lands  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
and  are  yet  in  his  hand  ;  and  after  on  behalf  of  Maud  son  (sic)  and 
heir  of  the  said  Roger  petition  was  made  to  the  king  for  removal  of 
his  hand,  inasmuch  as  the  said  Roger  was  dead,  and  after  his  death 
his  lands  devolved  by  inheritance  upon  the  said  Maud,  wherefore  the 
king  ordered  the  eseheator  by  true  men  of  his  bailiwick  to  make 
inquisition  touching  the  circumstances  ;  and  it  is  found  by  inquisition 
so  taken  that  on  the  day  of  his  outlawry  the  said  Roger  held  the 
premises  of  others  than  the  king,  that  he  died  on  Monday  after  Easter 
in  the  4Gth  year  of  the  reign,  and  that  the  said  Maud,  being  of  the 
age  of  ten  years,  is  his  daughter  and  next  heir  :  and  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriff  to  give  notiee  to  .loan  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Roger,  to 
whom  the  king  committed  the  keeping  of  the  land,  meadow,  wood 
and  rent  aforesaid,  to  be  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  last 
in  order  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  king  ought  not  to  remove  his 
hand  from  the  premises  and  deliver  up  the  issues  thereof  taken  since 
the  said  Roger's  death  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court 
should  determine,  and  she  being  SO  warned  came  not  at  that  day  :  and  as 
well  the  king's  Serjeants  as  Michael  Skillyng  his  attorney,  appearing  that 
day  in  chancery,  said  nought  effectual  wherefore  the  king  ought  not  so 
to  do. 

MEMBRANE     '.i. 
June  4.  To  John  de  Warblyngton.     Order  to  cease  every  excuse  and  to  be 

Westmin-ter.  before  the  king  ami  oilier  the  lords  and  nobles  of  England  in  the 
presenl  parliament  assembled  at  Westminster  on  Saturday  next, 
in  order  to  give  information  touching  certain  matters  whereof  the 
king  wishes  to  be  informed,  bringing  this  writ.  Bj    C.  in  pari. 

[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  n  Peer.  iv.  p.  668.] 
The  like  to  Thomas  de  Middelton  parson  of  Bakeneye. 
( Ibid.  | 

May  24.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  tngelbj  justices  appointed 
Westminster,  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  bj  wril  ol  nisi  prius  to  cause 
the  inquisition  which  is  to  be  taken  between  the  king  and  John  de 
Eynesford  knight,  whether  :;  acres  ol  waste  and  a  certain  yearlj 
K-nt  oi  6s.  Sd.  and  Uo.  pepper  in  Cheryngton  co  Salop  held  in  ohiei 
.md  a  toft  and  tin-  moiet)  of  one  virgate  <■!  land  in  Rodyngton  held 
of  Richard  earl  "i    Arundel]  an-  parcel  ol   th<    manors  ol    Boule? 

and  Lsenbrugge  ai  the  laid  John  has  averred,  "i  are  jroaa  (tintun 

groemtn)   by   themselves  and   not    parcel   thereol   as  alleged   for  the 


320  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1 37(>.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

king,  to  be  taken  before  them  the  said  justices  or  one  of  them,  before 
the  justices  of  assize  in  Salop  or  one  of  them,  or  before  any  other  the 
king's  justice  of  the  Bench  whatsoever. 

June  10.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton.  Order,  for  particular 
Westminster,  causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council  in  this  present  parliament, 
to  cause  a  ship  of  John  Katee  and  John  Hardy  merchants  of  Landregerie 
and  of  Peter  Preserake  merchant  of  la  Rochelle  called  '  la  Vaige  de 
Seint  Ive,'  lately  taken  by  John  Clerc  and  now  in  the  port  of  Suthamp- 
ton. to  be  safe  kept  under  arrest  until  further  order  with  the  wines 
and  other  merchandise  therein,  nought  being  removed,  any  commands 
to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding.  By  C.  in  pari. 

May  29.  To  Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  of  Geoffrey 
de  Rokele  clerk  in  the  parish  of  St.  Thomas  in  the  suburb  of  Oxford, 
delivering  to  the  said  Geoffrey  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  he  was 
lately  indicted  before  John  de  Moubray  and  his  fellows,  late  justices 
appointed  to  deliver  the  gaol  of  Oxford  castle,  for  the  alleged  robbery  of 
certain  goods  of  the  servant  of  a  certain  scholar  studying  at  Oxford,  and 
at  the  request  of  John  bishop  of  Lincoln  the  ordinary  was  after  delivered 
by  the  justices  to  the  said  bishop  according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy, 
and  purged  his  innocence  before  the  bishop  as  the  bishop  signified 
by  his  letters  patent,  and  the  king  of  his  favour  commanded  the  then 
escheator  to  restore  to  the  said  Geoffrey  his  lands  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  for  that  cause  ;  and  after  the  said  Geoffrey  petitioned  the  king 
for  restitution  and  livery  of  the  messuage  aforesaid,  shewing  that  by 
virtue  of  the  king's  command  above  mentioned  the  same  was  delivered 
to  him,  but  was  after  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  colour  of  an  inquisi- 
tion of  his  office  taken  by  Oliver  de  Harnham  late  escheator,  whereby 
it  was  found  that  the  said  Geoffrey  being  indicted  and  convicted 
before  certain  justices  of  divers  felonies  was  delivered  to  the  ordinary 
according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  and  shewing  that  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  the  said  messuage  to  John  de  Bernes  citizen  of  London 
(now  deceased  it  is  said),  William  de  Mulsho  clerk,  Edward  de  Cherdes- 
toke  clerk,  John  de  Freton  clerk  and  Robert  Broun  of  Warrewyk  and 
to  their  heirs  to  hold  so  long  as  the  same  should  remain  in  the  king's 
hand,  and  that  by  colour  of  the  king's  grant  he  the  said  Geoffrey  is 
without  an  answer  put  out  of  his  possession  thereof,  wherefore  the 
king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice  to  the  said  William,  Edward, 
John  de  Freton  and  Robert  to  be  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter 
last  in  order  to  shew  cause  wherefore  the  same  ought  not  to  be  so 
restored  and  delivered,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court 
should  determine  ;  and  the  said  William  and  Edward  appearing  at 
that  day  by  William  Cudy  their  attorney,  the  said  John  de  Freton  and 
Robert  in  person,  and  the  king's  Serjeants  and  Michael  Skyllyng  his 
attorney,  they  said  nought  effectual  wherefore  the  said  messuage 
ought  not  to  be  restored  and  delivered  to  the  said  Geoffrey. 

June  12.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Hertford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  John  Fitz  Geoffrey,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


50  EDWARD  Til.  -Part  I.  521 


1376.  Membrane  3 — conf. 

June  18.         To  the  sheriff  of  Xorffolk.     Order  to  cause  the  prior  of  Wabrune 
Westminster    t . .  have  seism  of  1  acre  3  roods  of  land,  and   Edmund  de  Reynham 

knight  of  the  moiety  of  a  messuage  in  Brunham  held  by  Thomas 
Colvn  of  Brunham  outlawed  for  felonv  it  is  said  ;  as  the  king  has 
warned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  the  premises  have 
been  in  bis  band  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the 
said  Thomas  held  that  land  of  the  said  prior  and  that  moiety  of  the 
said  Edmund,  and  that  Richard  de  Waterden  late  escheator  had 
the  year  and  a  day  and  the  waste  thereof;  and  ought  to  answer  to 
the  king  for  the  same. 

June  18.  To  John  prior  of  Rochester,  late  chief  master  of  the  king's  works 
Westminster,  which  he  appointed  to  be  done  at  Rochester  castle  and  his  manor  of 
Gravesende.  Order  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  William  Basynges 
master  of  the  hospital  of  St  Mary  Strode,  whom  the  king  has  now 
appointed  chief  master  and  clerk  of  his  said  works,  all  and  singular 
the  things  needful  in  regard  to  that  office  which  are  in  the  said 
prior's  custody  in  the  castle  and  manor  aforesaid. 

MEMBRANE  2. 

May  30.  To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Westle 
Waterles  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Edmund  Vaunoy 
knight ,  delivering  up  aiw  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Edmund  at  his 
death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  demesne  nor  in  service 
whereby  the  wardship  of  his  lands  ought  at  present  to  pertain  to  1  he 
king,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  others  than  the  king. 

June  16.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold 
Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  priu8  to  command  an 
inquisition  which  remains  to  be  taken  before  the  king  between  tin- 
king  and  John  de  Lakyngheth  concerning  the  manor  of  Sholondhalle 
in  Naketon  and  a  messuage,  40  acres  of  land,  20  acres  of  pasture,  one 
water  mill  and  60.1?.  of  rent  in  Couhagh,  Naketon,  Lemyngton  (sic). 
Stretton  and  Buklesham,  also  concerning  the  manors  of  Holbroke. 
Tatyngston.  Langeston,  Benteleye,  Merehalle  in  Pleyforde,  Poxhele 
and  Redlesham,  to  be  taken  before  them  the  said  justices  or  one  oi 
them  or  before  one  of  the  king's  justices. 

June  20.  To    Walter   Holt  escheator   in   Leycestersbire.     Order    in    presence 

\\  estminst*  i    oJ  Amy  (Ami<)  countess  of  Pembroke,  to  whom  the  king  has  committed 

the  wardship  of  the  lands  of  Roberi  de  Stepilton,  tenant   bj   knight 

service  of  the  heir  of  John  de  Qastynges  earl  of    Pembroke    tenant 

in  chief  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  <>r  <>f  her  attorneys  it  being 

warned  they  will  Attend,  t«>  assign  to  -loan  who  was  wife  of  the  said 
IN. bert     dowei'  of  t  be  land-  ot   In-r  said   busband   taken   into  the  ki] 

band  by  Ins  death  and  bj  reason  <>f  the  said  hen's  nonage  sending  the 

ignmenl    undei    seal    to    be   enrolled    in   chancery  :     as   the   kin<_'   has 
commanded  an  oatfa  to  be  taken  of  the  Said  Joan  by   I  >a\  id  d«-  llanne 

mere  that  she  will  not  marrj  without  the  king's  lioem 

July  1.         To  all  and  lingular  the  sheriffs,  mayors   bailiffs,  minister-  and  otha 
Westminster,   the  king's  lieges  within  libextiei  and  without  to  whom  etc.     order  not 

ot   11 


322  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137(1.  Membrane.  2 — cont. 

to  distrain  the  men  of  the  manor  of  Gorleston  co.  Suffolk,  which  is 
of  the  ancient  demesne  of  the  crown,  to  pay  toll  of  their  goods  and 
property,  releasing  any  distress  made  upon  them  for  that  cause  ; 
as  according  to  the  custom  heretofore  kept  and  approved  in  England 
men  of  the  ancient  demesne  of  the  crown  are  and  ought  to  be  quit 
of  paying  toll  throughout  the  realm. 
Et  erat  patens. 

July  2.  To  Thomas  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  deliver  to  Elizabeth 

Westminster,  elder  daughter  and  heir  of  David  Strabolgi  earl  of  Atholl  tenant  in 
chief  the  manor  of  Braburne  to  her  purparty  ;  as  of  the  said  earl's 
castles,  manors  and  lands  and  of  those  held  by  Elizabeth  who  was  his 
wife  (likewise  deceased)  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Elizabeth  and  Philippa 
his  daughters  and  heirs  as  well  in  dower  as  for  life  being  jointly  enfeoffed 
with  her  said  husband,  which  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  their 
death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  heirs'  nonage,  the  king  has  assigned 
to  the  said  Elizabeth,  who  has  proved  her  age  before  John  Dymmok 
escheator  in  Lincolnshire,  and  whose  homage  and  fealty  the  king 
has  taken,  the  manors  of  Braburne  co.  Kent,  Colyngburne  Valens  co. 
Wiltesir,  Possewyk  and  Holkham  co.  Norffolk,  and  the  manor  of 
Thorneton  with  the  towns  of  Thorneton  and  Neweburgh,  and  with  the 
Bowes  and  the  Belles,  Wayneshoppe,  Wayneshopside  with  the 
park  at  Wayneschoppe,  Poltreverot,  Emelhoppe,  Keldre  and  Keldre 
hays,  being  parcels  of  the  said  manor  within  the  liberty  of  Tyndale, 
according  to  a  partition  made  in  chancery.  By  p.s.   [31015.] 

To  Nicholas  de  Somerton  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Order  to  deliver 
to  the  said  Elizabeth  the  manor  of  Colyngburne  Valens  which,  among 
other  lands  of  David  de  Strabolgi,  earl  of  Atholl,  and  of  those  held  in 
dower  and  for  life  by  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  the  said  earl,  the 
king  has  assigned  to  her  ;  as  the  said  Elizabeth  the  daughter  has 
proved  her  age  before  John  Dymmok,  and  the  king  has  taken  her 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  (as  above). 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

John  Rokewode  escheator  in  Norffolk,  concerning  the  manors  of 

Possewyk  and  Holkham. 
Alan  del  Strother  bailiff  of  the  liberty  of  Tyndale,  concerning  the 
manor  of  Thornton  with  the  towns  of  Thornton  and  Neweburgh, 
the  Bewes  and  the  Belles,  Wayneshoppe,  Wayneshopside  with 
Wayneshoppe  park,  Poltreveret,  Emelhoppe,  Keldre  and 
Keldre  hayes,  being  parcels  of  the  said  manor. 

MEMBRANE   1. 

May  28.  To  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Staffordshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  two  thirds  of  the 
manor  of  Hyntes  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Richard  de 
Menyll  knight,  delivering  to  Joan  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Richard  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  nor  of 
others  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  those  two  thirds  jointly  with 
the  said  Joan  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Hugh  de  Menyll  knight  to  them 
and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others 
than  the  king. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  I.  323 


1376.  Membrane   1 — card. 

June  25.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  allow 

Westminster,  at  tin-  exchequer  to  John  tie  Romeeeye  late  treasurer  of  the  town 
of  Calais  such  daily  wages  for  his  expenses  in  coming  from 
1  1  lis  to  the  city  of  London,  thence  to  the  said  town,  and  thence 
returning  again  to  the  said  city  and  there  abiding  as  well  to  sue  for 
payment  of  wages  for  the  king's  hired  soldiers  (soldariis)  in  the  parts 
of  Calais  a-  to  array  and  render  (ad  arraiand"  et  reddend')  his  account 
for  his  office  of  treasurer,  as  were  allowed  to  his  predecessor  William 
de  Gunthorp  the  king's  clerk  late  treasurer  there  by  judgment  of  the 
treasurer  and  the  said  barons. 

MEMBRANE  23d. 

Writing  of  John  de  Aylton  parson  of  Haverhille,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Sir  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  the  uncle  knight,  Walter  de  Preston  and 
John  Brow  n  chaplains,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Wynpole 
co.  Cantebrigge,  and  of  all  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns  of 
Wympole,  Aruyngton,  Craudene.  Orwell,  Malketon,  Barneton  and 
Everysdon  which  he  had  by  gift  of  Sir  Warin  de  Bassyngborne  of 
Wynpole.     Dated  London,  20  October,  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
30  Januar}"  this  year. 

Charter  of  John  de  la  Mare  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Henry 
de  Forde,  John  de  Panes  of  Wyke.  Thomas  Erlestoke  parson  of  Fisscher- 
ton  by  Wyly,  John  de  Byry  parson  of  Whateleigh,  Godfrey  Bydyk 
and  John  Adymot  of  Nony,  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Fysscherton  afore- 
said and  the  advowson  of  the  church,  the  third  turn  of  presentation 
excepted  during  the  life  of  Ralph  de  Norton  knight,  a  mill,  rent-. 
services  and  reversions  in  Fysscherton  and  Babeton  sometime  of 
Walter  de  Freynes,  the  farm  of  the  third  part  of  the  said  manor  w  hieh 
the  grantor  has  for  life  of  the  said  Ralph  by  his  grant  except  the 
third  advowson  of  the  said  church  which  is  in  the  said  Ralphs  gilt, 
and  the  reversion  of  that  third  part  if  it  shall  fall  in.  the  manor  of 
P.vssehopestrouwe,  and  the  manor  of  Nony  with  appurtenances  as 
well  in  Nony  as  in  Clovorde,  the  grantor  being  bound  to  warranty 
of  all  the  said  manors,  mills,  lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions 
to  the  grantees,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  and  of  the  said  farm  with 
the  reversion,  if  it  shall  fall  in,  to  the  grantees  during  the  lite  of  the 
iid  Ralph.  Dated  Nony  co.  Somerset,  5  October  4!t  Edward  111. 
Witnesses:  Hugh  Tyrel,  Ralph  de  Cheyny,  Peter  de  Esoudemour 
knights,  Nicholas  de  Bonham.  John  Elys  of  Wiltesir,  John  de 
Merlauiide  Edmund  de  Plory,  Henry  de  Mount  fort  of  Somerset. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,    I    February  this  year. 

Feb.  4.  Philip  le  Spenser  knighl   to   Philip  la  Vache  knighl  and   Nicholas 

Wertminatex    Dabrichecourt  otherwise  called  Collard   Dabrichecourt.    Recognisance 

for   1,000  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;   to  be  levied,   in   default  of 

payment,    of  his  lands  and  chattels  in   Yorkshire. 

Cancelhd  on  jtaymenl,  acknowledged  by  Philip  di   la   Vache. 

Indenture  made  at  Preston  on  Sunday  after  St.  Nicholas 
•lit  Edward  III  between  Etogei  Manj  ogford  on  the  one  part  and  Thorn  u 
Buses  and  John  Manyngford  on  the  other  part.  i>  demise  to  the 


324  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS 


1376.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

said  Thomas  and  John,  until  the  lawful  age  of  Elizabeth  daughter  and 
heir  of  Stephen  Turberville  knight,  of  the  wardship  of  the  manor  of 
Acford  Skillvng  except  the  knights'  fees  to  the  same  belonging  and  the 
advowson  of  the  church,  rendering  yearly  to  the  said  Roger  and  to 
his  executors  40  marks  at  Christmas,  Easter,  Midsummer  and  Michael- 
mas by  even  portions,  power  being  reserved  to  the  lessor  to  enter  and 
hold  the  premises  in  his  former  estate  until  contented  of  the  rent  and 
arrears,  if  the  same  shall  be  in  arrear. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Roger  and  John, 
1  February  this  year. 

Feb.  16.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  to  proceed  to  execution  of 
Westminster,  the  judgment  hereinafter  mentioned,  the  allegation  and  testimony 
before  them  given  that  the  manor  of  Bykenhill  is  in  the  king's  hands 
notwithstanding  ;  as  in  a  cause  before  the  said  justices  by  the  king's 
writ  of  scire  facias,  between  John  Worth  knight,  cousin  and  heir  of 
Geoffrey  de  Langeley,  and  Simon  Sudbury  archbishop  of  Canterbury, 
Richard  earl  of  Arundell,  Guy  de  Briene  knight,  John  Knyvet  knight, 
Thomas  Maundeville,  John  Bampton,  Philip  Melreth  clerk  and  Ivo 
Sandhurst,  that  the  said  archbishop  and  the  others  should  shew  cause 
wherefore  the  said  manor  ought  not  to  remain  to  the  said  John  Worth 
according  to  the  form  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  late  king's  court  in  the 
18th  year  of  his  reign,  it  is  by  the  court  adjudged  that  the  said  John 
Worth  should  have  execution  of  the  said  manor  by  default  of  the 
said  archbishop  and  the  others,  but  that  such  execution  should  be 
stayed  until  the  court  should  be  certified  whether  the  said  manor 
is  in  the  king's  hands  or  no,  for  that  it  was  witnessed  before  the  said 
justices  that  the  same  is  in  the  king's  hands,  as  appears  by  the  tenor 
of  the  record  and  process  which  the  king  has  caused  to  come  before 
him  in  chancery  ;  and  now  the  said  John  Worth  has  petitioned  the 
king  to  hasten  execution  of  the  said  judgment  in  consideration  of 
the  cost  of  such  delay,  and  as  well  John  de  Beverle,  to  whom  the 
king  by  letters  patent  has  committed  the  keeping  of  the  said  manor, 
as  the  justices,  the  king's  Serjeants  and  others  concerned  therein  being 
summoned  before  the  king  had  nought  to  say  wherefore  the  said 
manor  ought  further  to  remain  in  the  king's  hands. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester.  Order  on  sight  of  these  presents  to 
Westminster,  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf,  that  all  merchants 
and  others  may  buy  and  purvey  all  kinds  of  corn  in  Gloucestershire  and 
bring  it  without  let  to  the  county  of  Bristol  for  sustenance  of  the  king's 
lieges  there;  as  lately  learning  that  the  dearness  of  corn  in  Gloucestershire 
was  greatly  increasing,  in  consequence  of  the  removal  and  embracing 
thereof  by  English  merchants,  wherefore  the  people  in  those  parts  were 
enduring  great  peril  and  impoverishment  of  their  estate,  the  king  by 
writ  ordered  the  sheriff  to  make  proclamation  on  his  behalf  forbidding 
any  merchant  of  England  of  whatsoever  estate  to  buy  or  embrace  any 
corn  in  Gloucestershire,  or  cause  any  to  be  bought  or  embraced, 
save  such  as  should  be  needful  for  his  own  consumption  and  the 
consumption  of  his  household,  or  to  take  any  out  of  that  county 
secretly  or  openly  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  ;  and  now  on 
behalf  of  the  commons  of  the  county  of  Bristol  the  king  has  learned 
that  great  number  of  Gloucestershire,  misunderstanding  the  said  writ, 
by  colour  of  his  command  have  hindered  and  do  daily  hinder  the 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  I.  325 


1376.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

bringing  of  any  corn  out  of  Gloucestershire  to  the  county  of  Bristol  for 
Bustenance  of  the  king's  lieges  there,  although  the  corn  growing  for 
ten  Leagues  around  the  county  of  Bristol  would  not  suffice  for  sustenance 

of  the  people  there,  and  it  was  not  nor  is  it  the  intent  of  the  king  or 
council  thai  all  and  singular  the  merchants  and  others  who  are  near 
to  Gloucestershire  might  not  buy  and  purvey  coin  whatsoever  needful 

for  their  consumption  and  the  consumption  of  their  households,  as 
in  his  said  command  is  expressly  contained.  It  is  the  king's  will  that 
no  corn  shall  by  colour  of  this  command  be  taken  to  any  foreign  parts 
without  his  special  command. 

1  eh.  23.  Walter  Raynold  of  Thorndon  to  John  de  Burton  and   William  de 

•minster.  Bloxham  clerks.     Recognisance  for  16  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

MEMBRANE  22d. 

Jan.  31.         John  Garland,  son  and  heir  of  William  Garland  of  Coryngham,  to 
w     I  minster.  John  Sutton  and  John  Martel.     Recognisance  for  40/.  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Essex. 

Jan.  30.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Thame.     Order,  upon  receiving  again 

Westminster,  the  letters  patent  under  then"  common  seal  lately  made  to  Popard  de 
Miners  concerning  a  maintenance  for  bis  life,  to  admit  Thomas  Leueden* 
the  king's  serjeant  to  their  house,  and  minister  to  him  for  life  such 
maintenance  as  the  said  Popard  lately  had  therein  at  the  king's  com- 
mand, making  to  the  said  Thomas  letters  patent  under  their  common 
il  with  mention  of  what  he  shall  so  take,  for  which  the  king  will  be 
bound  to  them,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at 
this  command  :  as  with  assent  of  the  said  Popard,  to  whom  the  king 
lately  granted  for  life  the  maintenance  aforesaid,  the  king  has  granted 
the  same  to  the  said  Thomas  for  his  good  service.  By  p.s.  1 30886.  | 

Memorandum  of  proceedings  before  the  council  at  Westminster, 
26  .January,  to  wit,  whereas  a  statute  merchant  of  100/..  sometime 
made  in  the  staple  al  Westminster  by  Thomas  de  Burgh  to  Thomas  d< 
Swafham,  was  by  assent  of  the  parties  within  the  hospital  ol  Si .  Thomas 
in  Suthwerk  in  presence  of  the  master  thereof  and  of  Hugh  Causton 
delivered  to  Robert  do  Boxford  citizen  and  draper  of  London  as  to 
an  indifferent  hand,  upon  condition  thai  if  between  the  date  of  such 
delivery  and  the  Invention  of  Holy  Cross  following  Thomas  Swafham 

should  make  to  Thomas  de  Burgh  a  bond  for  2001.  in  name  of  security  for 

the  enjoyment   during  the  life  of  Thomas  Swafham   only   of  B   certain 

rent  al  Bill)  ngesgate  m  the  city  of  London  by  him  purchased  of  Thomas 
de  Sw  afhain  without  being  thrust  out  of  the  same  or  any  parcel  1  hereof, 

the  nd  Robert  should  be  bound  to  deliver  thai  statute  to  Thomas 
Swafham  and  the  bond  to  Thomas  de  Burgh  with  a  part  of  the  indenture 
c>l  defeasance  thereupon  made  as  aforesaid  ;  and  whereas  before  the 
[nvention  of  Holy  Cross  Thomas  de  Burgh  "tiered  to  pay  50/.  and 

on    bJS    pari    tO    keep   all    1  he   covenant-    between    them    made,   Thomas 

Swafham   made   nol    nor  would   make  such   bond  for  2002.,   bul    refused 

to  do,   and    then   of   his   malice    by    Irand   and   co\  in   entered   a    plaint 

mi  i   the  said  Robert   in  the  curt  of  John  de  Haddelee  sherifl  oi 

I  d  i  in   win  rani  Loueden« 


326  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1 3  7  6 .  Membrane    22d — cord. 

London  in  a  plea  of  detenue  of  writing,  and  upon  default  of  answer 
of  the  said  Robert,  who  left  the  court  in  contempt  without  answering, 
by  consent  and  by  undue  process,  inasmuch  as  the  sheriff  had  no  power 
or  jurisdiction  to  take  cognisance  of  so  high  a  plea  or  to  try  the  same, 
to  wit  by  a  plaint  without  the  king's  writ  concerning  a  writing  delivered 
in  Suthwerk  without  the  said  city  and  all  at  large  in  the  county  of 
Surrey,  by  favour  of  the  court  Thomas  Swafham  wrongfully  and 
contrary  to  the  law  recovered  the  said  statute,  by  advice  of  the 
council  and  of  the  justices  of  either  Bench  the  said  recovery  is  quashed 
and  annulled  and  award  is  made  that  the  sheriff  who  took  cognisance 
of  that  plea  and  the  party  who  sued  the  same  be  punished  before  the 
king  ;  and  further  it  was  awarded  by  the  council  that  Thomas  Swafham 
should  deliver  the  said  statute  to  the  said  Robert's  custody  according 
to  the  first  covenant  and  condition  aforesaid,  by  virtue  of  which  award 
he  delivered  to  the  chancellor  a  statute  for  1001.  sealed  with  the  official 
seal  of  the  mayor  of  the  staple  and  not  with  that  of  Thomas  de  Burgh, 
acknowledging  before  the  council  that  he  never  had  any  other  but 
that,  and  the  said  Robert  likewise  acknowledged  that  before  the 
recovery  aforesaid  he  never  had  any  other  in  his  custody,  wherefore 
the  same  was  delivered  by  the  council  to  the  said  Robert,  to  be  kept 
according  to  the  first  mentioned  condition  and  not  to  be  delivered 
up  to  any  man  save  by  consent  of  both  parties,  or  by  execution  of 
a  judgment  rendered  before  the  justices  of  the  Common  Bench  by 
action  before  them  tried  by  true  men  of  the  venue  of  Suthwerk  in 
case  the  said  condition  be  gainsaid  by  Thomas  de  Swafham,  the 
plea  concerning  the  same  being  heard  and  determined  nowhere  else  save 
in   the   Common   Bench.     French. 

Feb.  4.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.    Order  by  mainprise  of  William  de  Wades- 

Westminster,  leye,  William  Faceby,  Adam  Elmeshole  and  Thomas  de  Wykerslay  of 
Yorkshire  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  to  them 
addressed  ordering  them  to  cause  Robert  de  Mundesdere  to  come 
before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  security,  under  a  set  pain  for 
which  the  sheriffs  would  answer,  that  he  should  not  do  or  procure 
any  hurt  or  harm  to  John  Asshefeld  chaplain  ;  as  that  writ  issued  at 
the  prayer  of  the  said  John,  shewing  that  the  said  Robert  grievously 
threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs  ;  but  the  said  William  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,"  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under 
a  pain  of  401. 

Feb.  12.  Thomas  Giffard  knight  to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  John  Giffard  knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  200  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 

Feb.  14.  John  de  Worth  knight  to  John  Edward.     Recognisance  for  200/., 

Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Oxfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  John  de  Worthe  and  John  Edward, 
being  the  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  for  300  marks  made  in  chancery 
by  the  said  Sir  John,  upon  condition  that  apart  from  a  judgment 
sometime  rendered  in  his  favour  before  the  justices  of  the  Common 
Bench  concerning  the  manor  of  Bekenhull  co.  Oxford  upon  a  writ 
of  scire  facias,  if  in  the  king's  court  it  shall  be  adjudged  that  the  said 


50  EDWARD  III.-- -Part  I. 


327 


1376.  Membrane    22d — cont. 

manor   is   chargeable  for  divers   alienations   ami    purchases   thereof 

made  without  the  king's  licence,  or  for  entiles  made  after  the  death 
of  any  ancestor  w  ithout  Buing  I  he  >ame  out  of  the  king's  hand  since  I  be 
d<  i'h  of  the  earl  of  North[ampton],  the  said  Sir  John,  after  he  shall  have 
execution  shall  uithin  half  a  year  after  judgment  rendered  concerning 
such  alienations  and  entries  be  ready  to  recompense  the  king  or  John 
de  Beverleefor  the  same, notwithstanding  that  the  recovery  aforesaid 
be  made  upon  a  title  beginning  before  those  alienations  and  entries. 
Dated  Westminster,  14  February  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  14  February. 

Writing  of  Peter  de  Veel  knight  and  Henry  Percehay,  being  a  quit- 
claim to  Henry  Waryner  of  Charfeld  and  John  Russell  of  Segre  oi  the 
castle  and  lordship  of  St.  Fagan  and  the  ad  vow  son  of  the  church,  and 
of  the  manor  of  Lyswranny  co.  Glammorgan.  Witnesses  :  Lawrence 
Berkeroles  knight,  John  Noreys  knight,  Master  David  Appoelyn, 
Thomas  Turbrevyle,  John  Kemmes,  John  Dalden,  Alexander  Sor. 
Dated,  15  February  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  February. 

Feb.  16.  Richard  de  Willesford  to  Robert  fie  Swyllyngton  the  uncle  knight. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  4S/..  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and   chattels  in   Xotynghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Feb.  18.  Geoffrey  de  Hunden  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Ellesfeld. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/..  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Hertfordshire. 

Feb.  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  de  Baghe, 

Westminster.  John  de  Bernollis  and  William  de  Kirke  of  Lincolnshire  and  William 
Gascoigne  of  Yorkshire  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's 
late  writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to  compel  Henry  de  Retford,  Robert  de 
Grenfeld,  William  de  Gascrik  and  John  de  Feryby  to  find  a  mainprise, 
under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them,  thai  they  should  do 
or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  Ralph  de  Thresk,  and  if 
they  should  refuse,  to  commit  them  to  the  nearest  gaol  there  to  be 
kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  would  williugk  so  do;  as  that  writ 
issued  at  the  prayer  of  the  said  Ralph,  averring  that  the\  threatened 
him  in  life  and  limits,  but  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  <>f  201.  that 
no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  shall  happen  to  the  said  Ralph  bj  the 
defendants  or  any  of  them  or  by  their  procurement. 


MEMBR  INE  21(1. 

Writing  of    John   Wantynges,   being   a   quitclaim   to  John  Dautri 
and  Thomas  de  Preston  clerks,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  ol  the  whole 

nor  of  Beeston  oo.  Bedeford  with  all  appurtenances  thereto  beloi 
ing.     Witnesses  :  Sir  John  de  Cobeham  Bur  William  de  Saj  .  Sir  Thomas 
de  Cobeham  knightc    Roger  de   A-  hbournhame,  Jamec   de   Pekham. 
Dated  Mallynj  o.  Kent,  I  March  I'.'  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment    I  February  this  year. 


32S  CALENDAR    OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137*'>.  Membrane   'lid — cont. 

Indenture  made  between  Robert  Ferers  knight  and  Piers  Colbroke 
esquire,  being  a  lease  for  life  of  the  manor  of  Wellersham  co.  Suffolk 
with  warranty  to  the  said  Piers,  for  his  good  service,  rendering  to  the 
lessor  and  to  his  heirs  one  rose  at  Midsummer  for  all  services  and 
demands.  Dated  Willersham,  Tuesday  the  feast  of  St.  Vincent  49 
Edward  III.     French. 

Writing  of  Robert  Ferers  knight,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  appointing 
Clement  Dolveryn  to  deliver  to  Piers  Colbroke  seisin  of  the  manor  of 
Willersham.  according  to  indentures  made  between  them  the  said  Piers 
and  Robert.  Dated  Willersham.  Thursday  after  St.  Vincent 
49    Edward    III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Robert  Ferers  of  the  fore- 
going writings,  6  February  this  year. 

Charter  of  Hugh  Carpenter  chaplain  of  the  chantry  of  Dagenhale, 
giving  with  warrant}7  to  William  Spygurnel  and  Joan  his  wife  and 
to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  the  saidWilliam  all  lands,  rents  and  services 
of  free  men  and  neifs  in  the  towns  and  hamlets  of  Dagenhale,  Hoden- 
hale,  Edelesburgh.  Ivyngho.  Bareworth  and  Lughton  cos.  Bukingham. 
Bedford  and  Hertford  which  he  the  said  Hugh  has  by  gift  and  feoffment 
of  the  said  William,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  Sir  Richard 
la  Vache  knight  and  to  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  le  Botiller, 
Nicholas  son  of  Hugh,  John  Hanley,  Matthew  de  Tye,  Thomas  Bonel. 
Dated  Dagenhale,  Thursda\7  after  St.  Leonard  37  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Hugh  Carpenter  chaplain  of  the  chantry  of  Dagenhale, 
being  a  quitclaim  to  Joan  relict  of  William  Spigurnell  and  to  the 
heirs  of  the  said  William's  body,  and  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the 
right  heirs  of  Richard  la  Vache  knight,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and 
services  of  free  men  and  neifs  and  all  that  goes  with  them  in  the  towns 
and  hamlets  of  Dagenhale,  Hodenhale,  Edelesburgh,  Ivyngho,  Bare- 
worth  and  Loughton  cos.  Bukingham,  Bedford  and  Hertford  which 
William  Spygurnell  lately  gave  by  charter  of  feoffment  to  him  the 
said  Hugh  and  to  his  heirs,  and  he  the  said  Hugh  after  by  charter 
gave  to  the  said  William  in  his  life  time  and  the  said  Joan  and  to  the 
heirs  of  the  said  William's  body,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such 
issue  to  the  said  Richard  and  to  his  heirs.  Witnesses  :  Nicholas  fiiz 
Hugh,  Matthew  de  Thee,  John  atte  Hyde,  William  Bullok,  John 
Hanle,  Thomas  Bonell',  Richard  atte  Suthend.  Dated  Edelesburgh, 
16  March  42  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  6  February  this  year. 

Charter  of  Robert  son  of  Hugh  de  Astelegh,  giving  to  Roger  de 
Astelegh  and  Alice  de  Astelegh  his  children  all  his  goods  and  chattels 
moveable  and  immovable.     Dated  London,  7  February,  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  February. 

Charter  of  John  le  Valentine,  giving  to  Jordan  de  Holme  rector  of 
Sefton  co.  Lancaster  all  his  lands  in  the  town  of  Flixton  during  the 
life  of  him  the  said  John,  and  all  his  lands  in  the  towns  of  Sholler 
and  Holme  by  Mamcestre  during  the  life  of  Margaret  wife  of  the  said 
John,    also   giving    to  the  said  Jordan  and  his  executors    all    goods 


50  EDWARD  III.     Part  1.  :5l>" 


137'"'.  Membrane  lid — ronl. 

uitl  chattels  <>t'  him  the  said  John    in   Lancashire.     Dated    London. 
7  February  60  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  Februarv. 

Feb.  7.  Richard  Pygeon  is  Bent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Mussenden, 

Weatorinstar.  to  have  such  maintenance  as  William   Doncastre  had  there  at   the 

command  of  the  king  or  his  forefathers.  [8a    p.s.  30899.] 

Feb.  4.  Robert   le   Harbour  of  Huntyngdon  to  Thomas  de  Thelwall  clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  4/..  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Huntyngdonshire. 

Writing  of  Lewis  Andrewc  Lumbard,  attorney  general  of  merchants 
of  Florence,  Catelonia  and  Flcsencia,  being  a  receipt  and  acquittance 
to  Robert  Home  of  Barton  for  III.  16s.  for  receiving  goods  and  chattels 
of  a  certain  tarit  whereof  by  inquisition  taken  before  John  de  Wrauby 
and  John  de  Stode  of  Barton  upon  Humbre  the  said  Robert  was  found 
guilty.      Dated  Lumbardstrete  London,  25  February  50   Edward    III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  February. 

Feb.  27.  Nicholas  Say  of  Mertok  to  Edmund  de  Arundell  knight.     Recognis- 

Westminster.  ance  for  60^.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Somerset. 

April  2.  To   the  sheriff  of   Sussex.     Order   by   mainprise   of  John    Double, 

Westminster.  John  de  Byry.  John  Langefeld  and  Richard  atte  (eler  of  London 
to  stay  the  exigents  against  John  Forester  vicar  of  Cokefeld  until  the 
day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable,  and  the  taking  of  his  body, 
bringing  this  writ  at  that  day  before  the  king  :  as  John  prior  of  Lewes 
is  impleading  the  said  vicar  for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  the  defendant 
is  put  in  exigents  in  Sussex  to  be  outlawed,  as  the  king  has  learned, 
for  that  he  came  not  before  the  king  to  answer  thereupon,  and  has 
prayed  the  king  foi  a  stay,  shewing  that  he  Lb  ready  to  answer  and 
further  to  stand  to  right  in  that  behalf;  and  the  said  John  Double 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  his  body  before  the  king  at  the  aforesaid  day. 

MEMBRANE  L'Orf. 

Feb.  15.         To  Thomas  Ughtred,  Thomas  de  Metham,  John  Daw  ille  and  Walter 
Westminster.  Rudeetan.     Order  to   stay  the  execution  of    the  king's  [ate  letti 

patent  to  them  made,  appointing  them,  three  and  two  of  them, 
by  true  men  of  Yorkshire  to  make  inquisition  concerning  felonies, 
trespasses,  extortions,  oppressions,  forgeries,  deceits  and  other 
alleged  hurls  and  grievances  whatsoever  committed  by  whatsoever 
colour  by  men  whatsoever  at  Houdenshyre  against  the  king  and 
people,  and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  the  said  letters  contained  . 
b    by  other  letters  patent  the  king  has  appointed  the  said  John  and 

Walter  and   William  de  Aton.  John    Bygot,  John  Miyvchn.  Gerard  de 

Lounde,  Thomas  Thurkild  and  John  Bakenholme  so  to  do.        Bj  C. 
Feb.  21.  P  ter  de  Veel  knight  to  Edmund  Darundell  knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  M>/..  In  Ik  levied]  in  default  ol  pa\  incut .  <  A  In-  land-  and  chattels 
iu  Gloucestershire. 


330  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane    20d — cont. 

Feb.  24.  Sampson  Hardyng  to  brother  Robert  Hales  prior  of  the  Hospital 

Westminster,  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England.     Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be 
levied  etc.  in  Northumberland. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Bull  of  Robert  de  Julliaco,  master  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of 
Jerusalem  and  guardian  of  Christ's  poor,  and  of  the  convent  of  Rodes, 
addressed  to  brother  Robert  Hales  prior  of  the  said  Hospital  in  England. 
The  said  master  and  convent  being  newly  informed  on  behalf  of  the 
said  prior  that,  whereas  their  preceptory  in  Scotland  used  to  be  held 
and  ruled  by  the  priors  in  England,  in  the  chapter  or  assembly  last 
held  in  Avignon  by  the  pope's  command  the  same  was  not  without 
prejudice  to  them  given  to  Robert  Scot,  and  being  prayed  to  provide 
a  remedy,    hearing    also    by    brethren    of    the    said    priory    residing 
in  the  said  convent  that  the  said  information  is  true,  as  well  to  provide 
against  prejudice  to  the  said  prior  as  because  the  brethren  of  the 
Hospital  holding  that  chapter  or  assembly  had  no  power  from  the 
said  master's  predecessor  or  from  the  said  convent  to  confer  bailiwicks 
(baiulias)  or  make  other  graces,  do  revoke  and  annul  the  gift  of  the 
said  preceptory  to  the  said  Robert  made  in  the  said  assembly,  and  do 
expressly  reserve  the  provision  of  the  preceptory  of  Scotland  with  all 
and  singular  its  members,  appurtenances  and  rights  to  some  brother 
of  the  Hospital  of  the  said  priory,  fit  and  sufficient  for  the  ruling  of 
the  said  bailiwick,  who  shall  truly  pay  the  responses  (responsiones) 
and  other  charges  thereupon,  to  have,  hold,  rule,  augment  and  improve 
in  s]}iritualities  and  temporalities  in  chief  and  in  the  members,  subject 
to  payment  by  him  every  year  of  the  yearly  response  and  other  reason- 
able charges  now  or  hereafter  thereupon  laid,  and  in  accordance  with 
the  content  and  purport  of  the  statute  published  in  a  general  chapter 
held  at  Avignon  in  March  in  the  66th  year  touching  those  who  make 
default  in  their  response,  the  grace  thereof  to  them  made  notwith- 
standing,  and   after   deliberate   counsel   together   of   their   particular 
knowledge  and  special  favour  do  by  these  presents  give  the  same  to 
the  said  prior  so  long  as  he  shall  hold  the  said  priory,  hereby  appointing 
him   preceptor   and   commendator   therein,   and   committing   to   him 
in  trust  the  functions  of  the  said  master  and  convent  in  regard  to  the 
cure,  ruling  and  administration  of  the  said  bailiwick,  and  the  defence 
and  recovery  of  the  goods  and  rights  thereof,  as  well  in  action  as  in 
defence  ;    wherefore  they  do  command  all  and  singular  the  brethren, 
sisters  and  donati  by  virtue  of  their  obedience,  and  the  men,  vassals 
and  others  to  them  subject  in  the  said  bailiwick  now  and  hereafter 
by  the  oath  of  fealty  and  homage  whereby  they  are  bound,  to  be 
obedient  and  intendant  to  the  said  prior  as  their  superior  and  preceptor, 
rendering  to  him  aid,  counsel  and  favour  when  need  be  and  when  they 
shall  be  required  in  all  things  which  concern  the  advantage  of  the  baili- 
wick, and  do  command  all   brethren  of    the   order  with  whatsoever 
authority,  dignity  or  office  illumined  now  and  hereafter  not  to  contra- 
vene in  anywise  this  gift  and  grace,  but  to  study  rather  to  keep  the  same 
inviolate  according  to  the  intent  and  purport  thereof ;  and  they  do  hereby 
grant  the  said  prior  power  to  take  real  and  corporal  possession  of  the 
said  bailiwick,  removing  any  other  who  may  withhold  the  same,  if  such 
there  be,  who  is  hereby  removed  by  the  said  master  and  convent  and  his 
removal  decreed,  and  by  virtue  of  his  obedience  do  forbid  the  said 
prior  by  colour  of  this  their  gift  and  grace  to  sell,  give,  bind,  pledge, 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part   I.  331 


1376.  Membrane  20d—co»t. 

alien,  exohange,  dissipate  or  granl  in  perpetual  emphyteusis  aught  of  the 
ids,  property  or  nghte  of  tin-  Baid  bailiwick,  < >r  otherwise  to  transfer 

the  Mini'  out  of  their  religion  without  the  Bpeeial  licence  and  oommand 
of  the  -aid  master  and  OOnvent,  quashing,  annulling  and  decreeing 
of  nunc  effort  any  >uch  act  contrary  to  this  their  prohibition.  Dated 
Rodes,  I")  October  137"). 

Memorandum  that  this  letter  is  enrolled  by  order  of  council,  24 
February. 

Writing  oi  Richard  Viene  of  Sussex,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 

to  John  de  Aroundell  knight,  being  tenant  of  the  manor  of  ( 'ode- 
low  e  CO.  Sussex,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  t he  righl  of  him  the  said 
Richard  in  the  said  manor.  Witnesses  :  Edward  Seint  John  knight, 
Henry  Husee  knight.  William  Fifyde,  John  de  Gyngesfold,  William 
Neudegate.  Dated  London,  25  February  50  Edward  111. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  February. 

Writing  indented  of  Peter  Fauelour,  granting  with  warranty  to  John 
Aubrey  citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion  of  the 
third  part  of  the  manor  of  Newcnton,  now  held  by  William  Haldene, 
John  Ussher  and  Thomas  Pateshulle  chaplain  during  the  life  of  Alice 
wife  of  Ralph  de  Aslakby  late  wife  of  Gregory  Fauelour  brother  of  the 
said  Peter  with  reversion  to  him  the  said  Peter  and  to  his  heirs,  under 
condition  that  after  the  death  of  the  said  Alice  for  40  years  from 
20  August  next  the  grantees  shall  render  to  the  said  Peter  and  to  his 
heirs  100«.  yearly  at  Easter  and  .Michaelmas  by  even  portions  if  the 
said  Alice  die  within  that  term,  power  being  reserved  to  the  grantor 
and  his  heirs  to  distrain   for  arrears   thereof,  and   after  the  said  term 

kin  to  enter  the  premises  in  his  former  (-state.  Dated  London, 
17  February  50  Edward  III. 

Writ  inur  of  Peter  Fauelour,  grant  1 1 1 lt  to  John  Aubrey  citizen  of  London 
and  to  his  assigns,  until  they  shall  twice  have  presented  thereto,  the 
advowson  of  Newenton  church,  with  reversion  after  two  presentations 
to  the  said  Peter  and  to  his  heirs.  Dated  London,  IS  February 
50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Peter  of  the  foregoing 
indenture  and  writing,  28  February. 

Charter  of  Robert  Chalouns,  giving  with  warranty  to  Bugfa  Browe 

knight,    his    heirs    and    assigns,    the    manor    of   (Yistelton.    .  ire. 

Dated  the  feasi  of  St.  Deters  Chair  50  Edward  111. 

Charter  of   Robert    Chalouns.  giving   with   warranty  to   Hugh    BrOWC 

knight  and  to  his  heirs  the  manor  of  Woberneford,  I  acre  of  land  therein 
excepted.     Dated  Monday  before  St.  Chad  60  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters   I  March. 

Charter  indented  of  Hugh  I'rowe  knight,  giving  t<>  Robert  Chalouns 

and    to   his    heirs    the    in; i    ■>!    Woberneford    which     the    -aid     Hiil'Ii 

had  by  ^'ift  and  feoffment  of  the  said  Robert,  under  condition  that  it 

the  manor  ol  CristoU <».  Cestre  or  snj   parcel  thereot  -hall  bj  the 

id  Robert  or  his  heirs  be  recovered  against  the  >,mi   Hugh   lu-  hen 

or  am   b  unit  of  the  same    it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  said  Hugh  and  his 


332  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane   20d — cord. 

heirs  again  to  enter  the  manor  of  Woberneford  and  hold  the  same 
in  fee  in  his  first  estate  without  gainsaying  of  the  said  Robert  or  his 
heirs.     Dated  Thursday  after  St.  Peter's  Chair  50  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1  March. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Hunte  and 

Westminster.  John  Breche  of  Canterbury  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  late 
writ  de  judicio  ordering  the  sheriff  to  take  Hamon  Wyseman  so  as  to 
have  him  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter 
to  answer  Richard  Monde  concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  bringing 
before  them  this  writ  ;  as  the  said  Hamon  has  petitioned  the  king 
for  a  stay,  shewing  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all 
things  ;  and  the  said  William  and  John,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40/.  to  have  him  before  the  said 
justices  at  the  aforesaid  day. 

MEMBRANE   19d. 

Writing  of  Stephen  Haym  citizen  of  Winchester,  Ellen  Venour, 
William  Wynde  and  John  Chynnore,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John  Caun- 
dych  knight,  William  de  Aston,  William  Wynter  clerks,  Philip  de 
Holgot,  Robert  Wyke  and  Geoffrey  Bluet  and  to  their  heirs  of  a  manor 
called  the  Gydyhalle  in  the  town  of  Haveryng  co.  Essex,  and  of 
a  messuage  and  lands  called  the  Esthous  in  the  same  town,  and  all 
lands  etc.  therein  which  William  Baldewyne  citizen  and  saddler  of 
London  had  by  grant  of  Robert  de  Haveryng.  Witnesses  :  William 
Walle worth,  Nicholas  Twyford,  John  Aubreye  citizens  and  aldermen 
of  London,  Ralph  Tyle,  John  Bedeford.    Dated  8  March  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Chynnore,  9  March. 

March  7.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London  or  Dovorre. 
Westminster.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Haytfeld  of  Yorkshire  and  William  Ascombe 
of  London  to  suffer  Simon  Cursoun,  who  with  the  king's  licence  is 
journeying  to  Flanders,  in  one  of  those  ports  freely  without  let  to 
pass  thither  with  two  yeomen  and  one  groom  in  his  company,  any 
command  of  the  king  to  the  said  keepers  previously  addressed  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding,  provided  that  they  take  with  them  nought 
to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  realm  ;  as  the  said  John  and  William 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  that  the  said  Simon  shall  not 
depart  to  any  other  parts. 

Writing  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Oxeneye,  being  a  quit- 
claim to  Sir  John  de  Cobham  lord  of  Cobham  and  Sir  Robert  Belknap 
knights  and  to  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  manor 
called  '  Malmayns  maner  '  in  the  parish  of  Stoke  in  the  hundred  of 
Hoo,  the  manor  of  Mayham  in  the  parish  of  Rolvynden,  and  all  other 
the  lands,  rents,  services  etc.  which  the  said  John,  Robert  and  Nicholas 
have  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  Pympe  in  the  said  parishes  or. 
elsewhere  in  Kent,  or  which  were  sometime  of  Thomas  Malmayns. 
Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Cobham  knight,  William  Strete,  Richard 
Charles,  James  de  Peckeham,  Nicholas  Heryng,  Thomas  de  Garwynton  of 
Welle,  William  Elys.  Dated  Stoke  aforesaid,  21  February  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Canterbury  3  March,  before 
Thomas  de  Garwynton  of  Welle,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
polestatem  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery  for  this  year. 


50  EDWARD  Til.— Part  I. 


1376.  Membrane  \9d — rant. 

Indenture  made  between  Margaret  Mareschal]  countess  of  XorfTolk 
and  dame  de  Segrave  and  Ann  countess  of  Pembroke  dame  de  Berge- 

wny  and  de  Manny,  being  B  lease  for  eiLrlit  years  by  the  -aid  Ann  ti- 
the said  Margarei  her  mother  of  all  heroastles,  lordships,  lands  whatso- 
ever.  fees  and  advOWBOnS  in   England  and   Wales,  making  no  uaste  or 

destruction,  rendering  every  year  one  rose  at  Midsummer. and  performing 
the  services  due  to  the  chief  lords,  power  being  reserved  to  the  said 
Ann  in  ease  the  said  Margaret  -hall  die  within  that  term  again  to 
enter  and  hold  the  premises  without  gainsaying  of  her  executors 
assigns  or  any  other.  Dated  London.  Candlemas  eve  50  lulu  aid  III. 
Frt  ni'h. 

Mi  morandum  of  acknowledgment  hefore  John  Knyvet  the  chancellor 
at  London,  7  March. 

March  1").  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  de 
minster.  Burton  of  Newerk.  by  mainprise  of  William  Croscby  and  John  Vendour 
of  Notynghamshire  to  stay  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking 
of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the 
day  a  writ  against  him  at  the  suit  of  John  Humfray  is  returnable  ; 
as  his  petition  shews  that  John  Humfray  is  impleading  him  before 
the  said  justices  for  withdrawing  from  his  service  before  the  term 
agreed  contrary  to  the  ordinance,  and  that  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  the 
husting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  the  sheriffs  returned  that 
he  was  not  found  in  their  bailiwick,  although  he  was  ever  ready  and 
is  yet  ready  to  answer  that  plea  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  praying 
for  remedy  ;  and  the  said  William  and  John  Vendour,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  body  for  body  and  under  a 
pain  of  201.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

March  15.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Sayour 
Westminster.  '  joeueler '  citizen  of  London,  by  mainprise  of  John  Briklea  of 
London  '  marsshal/  Robert  Lufwik  of  London,  Peter  Smerl  of  London 
and  John  Eston  of  London  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the 
exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ 
before  the  justices  at  Wot  minster  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is 
returnable;  a-  hi-  petition  shews  that  lie  is  put  in  exigents  in  the 
husting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the 
-aid  justices  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Martin  last  to  answer  Richard  North- 
lond  concerning  an  alleged  debt   of    is  inaiU-.  and  that   he  is  ready  to 

answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things;  and  the  Baid  John  Bnkles 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  48  marks  to  have  him  before  the  -aid  justices  the  da) 

the  said   w  lit    is   i<t  in  liable. 

March  17.       To  John  ( irede  merohanl  of  Lumbardy  dwelling  in  thecitj  of  London. 

\\ .   tmin  ter.  Licence  to  receive   1,000  marks  of  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  oi  St. 

John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  to  make  letters  of  exchange  t"i 

that    inn  payable  to  the  prior  of  Lode-  in-  superior  addressed  t«.  the 

d  merchant's  fellows  dwelling  in  foreign  pari 

M arch  17.       To  the  sheriffs  of  London.    Order,  upon  the  petition  ol  Gill 

i     Byngham  oi  Barton  upon  rlumbre,  b)  mainprise  of  Richard  Korcsin 
and  Thomas  herbs  of  L<  ■  aire,  Willi  on  Payou  ol  Norffolk  and 

Benedict  Selj  of  Kent  to  staj  the  further  publication  of  the  exigent* 


.•{34 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137(>.  Membrane  \9d — cord. 

against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  at  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  next  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  Thomas  Cornewaille  is  impleading  him  before  the  said 
justices  to  render  account  for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver  of  plaintiff's 
moneys,  that  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  the  husting  of  London  to  be 
outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer,  being 
altogether  without  knowledge  thereof  as  he  avers,  and  that  he  is 
ready  [to  answer  and]  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Richard 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day 
named. 

March  17.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland.  Order 
Westminster,  to  suffer  Henry  de  Ferrers  knight  to  have  the  respite,  which  the  king 
of  his  favour  has  given  him  until  Midsummer  next,  of  all  debts  and 
accounts  by  him  due  to  the  king  in  Ireland  and  current  in  demand 
against  him  at  the  said  exchequer,  releasing  any  distress  made  for  that 
cause.  By  C. 

March  19.        William  de  Wauton  knight,  John  de  Gildesburgh,  Thomas  Coggeshale 
Westminster,  and  Roger  Keterych  to   Roger  de   Welesham  knight   and  John  de 
Harleston   clerk.     Recognisance   for    1,200   marks,    to   be   levied,    in 
default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Roger  [de  Welesham]. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Roger  de  Walesham  knight  and  John 
de  Harleston  clerk  of  the  one  part  and  Sir  William  de  Wauton  knight, 
John  de  Gildesburgh,  Thomas  Coggeshale  and  Roger  Keterich  of  the 
other  part,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon 
condition  that  the  second  parties  or  some  one  for  them  shall  at  Easter 
next  or  within  four  days  after  at  London  in  the  church  of  St.  Paul 
before  the  bier  of  St.  Erkenwald  pay  200  marks  to  the  said  Sir  Roger 
and  John  de  Harleston  or  to  some  one  in  their  name,  at  Michaelmas 
following  or  within  four  days  after  500  marks,  and  at  Easter  following 
or  within  four  days  after  500  marks,  so  that  upon  receipt  of  every  such 
payment  they  shall  have  an  acquittance  under  the  seals  of  the  said 
Sir  Roger  and  John.     Dated  London,  19  March  50  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  in  the  chancery 
at  Westminster,  19  March. 


MEMBRANE   I8d. 

Feb.  23.  To  Edmund  Laurence  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order,  upon  the 

Westminster,  petition  of  Henry  son  of  William  de  Sale  of  Bedeford,  by  mainprise 
of  John  de  Barton  of  Rydale,  William  de  Thelewalle,  Hugh  Sparke 
and  Thomas  Boseley  of  Lancashire  to  stay  the  seizure  of  petitioner's 
lands  or  goods  and  chattels,  not  troubling  him  in  aught  until  further 
order,  but  notifying  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  his  land 
in  the  escheator's  bailiwick  and  the  yearly  value  thereof  in  all  issues, 
and  his  goods  and  chattels  there  and  the  price  of  the  same,  that  the 
king  may  further  deal  with  them  as  ought  to  be  done  of  right  and 
according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England  ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  Henry  de  Sale,  Henry  son  of  Richard  de  Sale  and  Henry  de  Sale 
servant  of  Henry  de  Atherton  of  Hyndeley  were  outlawed  for  certain 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  1.  336 


137«i.  Membrane   ISd—cant. 

felonies,  foe  which  they  were  indicted  before  Thomas  de  Seton  and 
his  fellows  late  just  ioee  of  oyer  and  terminer  oi  Henry  duke  of  Lancastre 

it  is  said,  and  that  the  petitioner  is  not  one  of  the  persons  bo  outlawed, 
he  is  ready  to  prove  before  the  king  where  by  the  king's  command 
the  record  and  process  of  outlawry  remain  to  be  determined,  and  to 
ad  to  right  in  all  things,  praying  to  be  indemnified,  that  at  the 
procurement  of  certain  his  enemies  his  lands,  goods  and  chattels 
be  not  sci/ed  by  the  escheator  by  reason  of  the  identity  of  his 
name  and  surname:  and  the  said  John  and  the  others,  appearing 
in  person  in  ohanoery,  have  mainperned  truly  to  answer  to  the  king 
for  the  issues  of  his  said  lands  and  the  price  and  true  value  oi  his 
goods  and  chattels,  if  the  petitioner  shall  be  found  to  be  one  of  the 
persons  outlawed  as  aforesaid. 

The  like  to  the  bailiff  of  the  liberty  of  John  king  of  Castille  and 
Leon  and  duke  of  Lancaster  in  Lancashire. 

Writing  of  Ingelram  Bruvn.  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  ti» 
Sir  Robert  de  Marny  knight  and  Dame  Alice  his  wife,  mother  of  the  said 
Ingelram,  and  to  their  assigns  during  their  lives,  of  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Bekenham  co.  Kent,  the  manor  oi  Forthyngbrigge  co. 
Suthampton  called  Migham.  and  all  lands  in  Broun  Candevere  which 
were  sometime  of  Sir  William  Bruvn  knight  father  of  the  said  [ngelram, 
all  now  held  by  the  said  Robert  and  Alice.  Lrrantin<_r  thai  they  shall 
hold  the  premises  for  their  lives  and  the  life  of  the  longest  liver  quit 
ot  all  actions  for  waste,  sale  or  destruction.  Witnesses:  Thomas 
Yonge,  Thomas  Belhous,  John  de  Berden,  Sir  Robert  de  Bourton 
rector  of  Southwokyndon  aforesaid  {sic),  Sir  John  Schropham  chaplain, 
Sir  John  Colyn  chaplain,  Philip  atte  Bregge.  Dated  London.  1  March 
50  Edward  1*11. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  .'i  March. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  de  Lyteltoo  of  Worcester- 
shire being  a  confirmation  of  the  estate  of  John  Blake  parson  of 
Grafton  Flevarth,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  in  a  messuage  and  !»  acres 

of  land  in  Upton  by  Snodesbury  sometime  of  Walter  lVrsones.  saving 
the    rent    and   services   thereof  due   to   the  said   Thomas   and    his   hen- 
which  messuage  and  land  were  lately  held  by  William  Colyns  chaplain 
of  the  said  Thomas  the  lather  i>\   Bervice  of  l.V.  a  year  payable  at 

the  usual   terms  and  other  fixed   services,  and   the  said   tenant    thereof 

enfeoffed  the  said  John  in  lee  simple.  Witnesses:  John  lieysy, 
William  W\  oel,  John  de  <  iatesbj    Walter  Brugge,  Robert  de  Newenton, 

Th as     Je     Buddyngton.     Dated     Grafton     Flevarth,     I     March 

60  Edward  111. 

Mi  momruliim  ot  acknowledgment,  l  March. 

March  4.        To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  I 

olerk  and  William  de  Bodeneye  of  Noraolk  to  sel  free  Roland  Masons 

-I   S.i  nt  <  hi     if   imprisoned   for  the  cause   hereinafter  mentioned   and   t"i 

none  other  :   as  lately  by  writ  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  attach  the 
id  Roland  to  have  him  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  in 

the  quinzaine  of  ESaster  to  answer  to  the  king  and  the  prior  ot  tin- 
order  ot  in. ii  pn  ichei  of  Thefford  wherefore,  being  latel)  retained 
in  the  -aid  prior's  servios   it  Thefford  it  is  said,  he   withdrew    before 

the    term    agreed    contlai\     to    tin     ordinance       \[\t\     by     \  utile    <>|     that 


336 


CALENDAR    OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1376. 


Membrane    18d — cont. 


writ  the  sheriff  took  him  and  is  detaining  him  in  the  king's  prison  ; 
and  the  said  Roland  has  petitioned  the  king  to  set  him  free,  as  he 
is  ready  to  answer  the  king  and  the  said  prior  and  to  stand  to  right 
in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  and  William  have  mainperned 
in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices 
the  day  the  said  writ  is  returnable. 

Feb.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Alexander  Quappe- 

Westminster.  lade,  Henry  Pateshull,  Peter  Quappelade  and  John  Saymore  of  Lincoln- 
shire to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  Thomas  son  of  Henry  de 
Quappelade,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster 
at  the  day  contained  in  a  writ  de  judicio,  whereby  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  take  the  said  Thomas  so  as  to  have  him  that  day  before  the 
said  justices  to  answer  William  de  Thorp  knight  concerning  an  alleged 
trespass  ;  as  the  said  Thomas  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay, 
shewing  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things, 
and  the  said  Alexander  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  his  body  before  the 
said  justices  at  the  aforesaid  day. 

March  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hertford.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Ripple  and 
Westminster.  Thomas  de  Waltham  of  London  to  stay  the  exigents  against  Roger 
Bele  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king  ; 
as  Robert  Pursle  is  there  impleading  the  said  Roger  and  others  for 
an  alleged  trespass,  and  the  said  Roger  is  put  in  exigents  in  Hertford- 
shire to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  thither  to  answer  as  the 
king  has  learned,  and  has  petitioned  for  a  stay,  shewing  that  he  is 
ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  John 
and  Thomas,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under 
a  pain  of  10Z.  to  have  his  body  before  the  king  the  day  the  exigents  are 
returnable. 


Feb.  12.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Bukyng- 

Westminster.  ham,  Hugh  Sulgrave,  Amery  Wymondham  and  John  Ellesworth  of  the 
city  of  London  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  de  judicio, 
ordering  the  sheriffs  to  take  Robert  Swynesheved,  Reynold  Bedenhale 
and  John  Ambreston,  if  found  in  their  bailiwick,  and  keep  them  in 
safe  custody  so  as  to  have  their  bodies  before  the  king  in  the  quinzaine 
of  Easter  to  answer  William  Mildenhale  concerning  an  alleged  trespass, 
and  order  to  set  the  said  defendants  free  from  prison  by  that  mainprise 
if  taken  by  virtue  of  that  writ,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king  ;  as 
on  behalf  of  the  defendants  petition  is  now  made  to  the  king  for  aid, 
shewing  that  they  are  ready  to  answer  the  said  William,  and  stand 
to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  10?.  to  have  the  defendants 
before  the  king  at  the  aforesaid  day. 


March  14. 
Westminster. 


To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Hildegare 
of  Huntingdonshire,  John  Fuller  of  London  and  John  Sherman  of 
London  to  stay  the  further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  de  judicio, 
ordering  the  sheriff  to  take  Thomas  Aleyn  so  as  to  have  him  before 
the  justices  at  Westminster  three  weeks'  after  Easter  next  to  render 
account  to  John  Smyth  chaplain  for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver  of 
the  said  chaplain's  moneys,  and  order  to  bring  this  writ  before  the 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    I.  33! 


137C.  Membram    \Sd — cont. 

said   justices   at   that  day  ;     as  the  said   defendant    has    petitioned  the 
king  for  a  stay.  Bhewing  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  plaintiff  and 
ad  t<>  right  in  all  things  :    and  the  said  Thomaa  Bildi  ind  the 

others,  appearing  in  person  in  ohanceiy,  have  mainperned  under  a 
pain  of  20  marks  to  have  the  defendant  before  the  Baid  justices  at 
the  aforesaid  day. 

March  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Richard 
tmmater.  Payn  of  Kentebury,  by  mainprise  of  John  Gilmyn  of  London  '  smyth 
and  Henry  atte  Hethe  of  that  citj'  '  smyth  '  to  stay  the  further  publica- 
tion of  the  exigents  against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this 
writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he 
is  put  in  exigents  in  Berkshire  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not 
before  the  said  justices  to  answer  Walter  Herward  of  Kentebury 
concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  having  no  knowledge  thereof,  and 
that  lie  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  John  and  Henry,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  ha  ve  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  the  day  the 
writ  of  exigents  is  returnable. 


ov 


Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  2002.  made  in  chancery 
24  .March  this  year,  at  the  inn  of  the  friars  preachers  London,  by 
William  Beauchamp.  Thomas  Moryeux,  Philip  la  Vache,  Lionel 
Dautre,    Robert    Claveryng,   Thomas  Symound    knights  and    Robert 

Massy  Of  Warwickshire  for  .Matthew  Lcdenian  knight  and  Joan  who 
was  wife  of  Anthony  de  Lucy,  thai  they  and  one  of  them  shall  be 
ready  to  content  as  well  the  king  as  Gilbert  de  Umframville  earl  of 
Aligns  and  others  according  to  order  of  the  king  and  council  for  all 
manner  of  trespasses  and  wrongs  in  regard  to  the  entry  of  the  manor 
of  Multon  co.  Lincoln,  in  case  the  said  Matthew  and  .loan  and  others 
-hall  he  found  trespassers. 

April  8.  To  the   sheriffs   of   London.      Order   to   stay   altogether   the   further 

Westminster,  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  sheriffs  to  cause  William 

Otryngton  to  come  before  them,  and  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors 

who.    under   a    pain    to    lie    by    the   sheriffs    laid    upon    them    for    which 

the  sheriffs  would  answer,  would  mainpern  him  that  he  should  cause 
..i    procure  no  bodily  hurt   or  harm   to   Kllis    Mympe  *  hro\  duivr.    and 

if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  Neugate  gaol  until  he  would 
willingly  bo  do;  and  order  bj  mainprise  of  John  de  Askwyth  and 
Robert   de   Holm  of  London  without  dels]    to  set   the  said  William 

tic-,    if   taken    by    \irtue  of  that    command  ;     as  that    writ    issued   at    the 

Buil  of  the  -aid  Ellis,  averring  that  the  said  William  grievous!) 
threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs;  bul  the  said  John  and  Robert, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  for  the  Baid  William 
as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  oi  l"  marks. 

Mi. M/u:  \\h   17'/. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Robert  Haulej  esquire, 
reciting  that  the  -  lid  Robert  and  John  Shake!  esquire  granted  to  the 
king  the  third  of  the  two  thirds  to  them  pertaining  ot  the  ransom  of 
the  count  ot  Dene  b  prisoner  of  war  taken  at  the  battle  ol  N  ire  in 
1      i ill.-  tn-'   ibating  therefrom  3,0004  sterling  lot  theu  exp  md 

e|< 


538  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137(1.  Membrane.  \ld — cont. 

for  payment  of  their  debts,  as  contained  in  an  indenture  thereupon  and 

upon  other  matters  made  between  them  and  the  king  ;  and  reciting  that 

the  prince,  who  was  in  command  (chieveteyn)  a*  the  said  battle,  gave  to 

the  said  Robert  all  that  was  due  to  him  of  his  third  part  of  the  said 

ransom  to  him  pertaining  as  commander  over  and  above  the  15,000 

doblas  which  he  received  thereof,  and  the  16,000  doblas  by  him  assigned 

to  the  captal  de  Buche,  upon  condition  that  of  the  first  payment  that 

the  said  Robert,  his  attorneys  or  deputies,  should  receive  or  might 

recover  from  the  count  of  Foix  of  the  sum  of  75,000  doblas  for  which 

the  count  of  Foix  is  bound,  having  received  the  same  from  the  count  of 

Dene  for  payment  in  part  of  his  said  ransom,  the  said  Robert  should 

pay  him  5,000  doblas  of  good  gold,  such  as  were  current  in  Spain  in 

time  of  the  king  Don  Petro,  and  other  5,000  doblas  of  the  first  payment 

of  the  residue  thereof  which  he  should  receive  or  might  recover  from 

the  count  of  Dene,  his  sureties  and  hostages,  saving  to  the  king  what 

pertains  to  him  of  the  said  two  thirds,  as  may  appear  by  letters  indented 

of  the  said  prince  to  the  said  Robert  delivered  ;    and  witnessing  that 

the  king  has  likewise  given  to  the  said  Robert  the  third  part  of  the 

two  thirds  aforesaid,  and  whatsoever  thereof  to  him  pertains  or  may 

pertain  by  virtue  of  the  said  grant  to  him  made  by  the  said  Robert 

and  John,  covenanting  so  far  as  in  him  lies  that  the  son  and  hostage 

of  the  count  of  Dene  and  all  the  bonds  and  other  securities  for  the  said 

ransom  shall  be  delivered  to  the  said  Robert,  his  deputies  or  assigns, 

and  that  the  king  has  for  that  cause  made  over  to  the  said  Robert  all 

actions  and  demands  which  he  has  or  may  have  therein,  willing  that 

the  said  Robert  shall  have  such  letters  and  so  many  as  he  shall  need 

for  furtherance  of  his  suit  herein,  provided  that  the  said  Robert  shall 

pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  to  the  king  at  his  exchequer  at  Westminster 

2,000  marks  sterling,  namely  1,000  marks  of   the  first  money  which 

he,  his  deputies  or  assigns  shall  receive  or  may  recover  of  the  count  of 

Foix  as  aforesaid  over  and  above  the  said  3,000Z.,  and  other  1,000 

marks  of  the  first  money  which  he  and  they  shall  receive  or  may 

recover  of  the  count  of  Dene,  his  sureties  and  hostages,  saving  that  of 

the  moneys  so  received  equal  and  rateable  payment  shall  concurrently 

be  made  to  the  king  and  the  prince,  provided  always  that  of  the  first 

payment  made  by  either  party  the  said  3,000Z.  shall  first  be  deducted 

to  the  profit  of  the  said  Robert  ;   and  witnessing  that  the  said  Robert 

has  sworn  upon  the  gospels  to  pay  those  2,000  marks  as  aforesaid, 

and  hereby  binds  himself,  his  heirs,  executors  and  assigns  and  all 

his  goods  so  to  do,  and  further  has  found  in  chancery  before  Sir  John 

Knyvet  the  chancellor  certain  sureties,  to  wit  Sir  Matthew  Redmane 

and  Sir  Richard  Redemane  knights  and  the  said  John  Shakel,  who 

before  the  chancellor  have  taken  upon  them  that  he  on  his  part  shall 

perform   all   the   matters    aforesaid,    but   notwithstanding   the   same 

the  king  covenants  that  if  the  count  of  Dene,  his  sureties  and  his  said 

son  and  hostage,  who  is  now  with  the  said  Robert,  shall  die  before  the 

said  Robert,  his  deputies,  assigns  or  others  on  his  behalf  have  recovered 

payment  of  the  said  ransom  so  that  they  shall  never  recover  the  same, 

the  said  Robert,  his  deputies,  assigns,  heirs,  lands,  tenants  and  executors. 

and  likewise  his  said  sureties,  their  heirs  etc.  shall  be  quit  toward 

the  king  of  those  2,000  marks  and  not  bound  to  pay  aught,  provided 

always  that  they  shall  make  no  quittance  or  remission  to  the  count 

of   Dene  or  his  sureties  nor  deliver  up  the  said  hostage  or  the  bonds 

of  the  said  count  without  recovering  payment,  and  if  by  fraud  they 


;»0    KDWARI)    III.— Part    I.  33<i 


1376.  Membrane  I7</    rout. 

shall  so  do  contrary  to  the  aforesaid  covenants,  he  ami  the\  shall 
be  bound  to  pay  the  said  snni  to  the  king  ;  and  if  the  said  Robert  and 
all  concerned  on  hi-  behalf  shall  die  before  recovering  tin-  same  or 
so  much  thereof  is  he  is  bound  to  pay  the  king,  this  gift  and  grant 
notwithstanding  the  kim:  may  and  shall  have  again  the  righl  and  action 
that  he  had  before  such  grant  of  the  third  part  of  the  said  two  thirds 
by  virtue  of  the  indenture  with  him  made  l>\  the  said  Robert  and 
John.     Dated  London,  14  March  1375,  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Robert  before  John 
Knyvct  the  chancellor  at  London,  14  March. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  for  him  after  then  and  there  made 
before  the  chancellor  by  the  said  Matthew,  Richard  and  John,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  that  he  on  his  part  shall  perform  all  and  singular 
the  matters  in  this  indenture  contained. 

Memorandum  that  on  20  March  this  year  this  indenture  was  delivered 
to  Robert  de  Assheton  the  treasurer  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Rote,  giving  with  warranty  to  Nicholas  de 
Carreu  the  elder,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services 
and  all  rights  etc.,  whatsoever  which  he  had  in  the  towns  of  Bedyngton, 
Carsalton  and  Micham  co.  Surrey.  Witnesses  :  William  Resoun, 
William  Donemede.  Robert  Glovere,  John  Drax.  Dated  Bedyngton, 
18  January  49  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
25  March  this  }rear. 

March  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.  Order,  upon  petition  made  on  behali 
Westminster,  of  Thomas  Henrysonede  Quappelade,  by  mainprise  of  Peter  Quappelade 
of  London  '  draper/  John  Quappelade  '  draper,'  Henry  Patteshill 
'  taillour  '  and  Alexander  Sherman  of  London  to  set  the  said  Thomas 
free  from  prison,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  WCstminster 
three  weeks  after  Easter  next;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  hy 
writ  de  judicio  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said 
Thomas  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  that  day  to  answer 
(Jreyory  Kower  of  Quappelade  concerning  an  alleged  trespass  thai  by 
virtue  of  that  writ  the  sheriff  has  taken  and  imprisoned  him.  and  that 
lie  is  readj  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
Peter  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  his  laxly  before  the  said  justices  at  the 
aforesaid  day. 

March  8.         I o  Roger  de  Kirketon  and  hi>  fellows  justices  appointed  for  delivery 

\\ .  ,tiinn-t> T.  of  the  uaol  ol  the  city  "I  York.     Order  to  stay  any  proceeding  whatso- 

-  mi  before  them  at  the  said  gaol  upon  an  appeal  made  by  Alice  who 

was  wife  oi   Thomas   Pottere  againsl    Robert    de   Howom'  of   fork 

marchaunt  '  and  others  concerning  her  said  husband's  death,  althouj  h 

the  same  be  there  brought  before  them,  on  the  king's  behali  instruotinj 

the  sheriff  of  5  orh  at  his  peri]  to  cause  that  appeal  to  come  inline  the 

king  at  the  quinzaine  oi  Easter,  according  to  a  writ  to  him  addressed, 

with  attachments  and  all  d".  omenta  in  support  (admuniculis)  affecting 

the  same  to  he  determined  according  to  the  law  and  custom  ot  England  ; 

thi     aid  Alice  feai    thai  at  the  suit  oi  friends  oi  those  appealed  the 

appeal  is  sent  before  the  laid  justices  at  the  next  daj  ol  gaol  delivery 

there  that  so  the  justices  should  proceed  to  delivery  oi  those  appealed 


340 


CALENDAR  OP  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137(5. 


Membrane  lid — cont. 


for  lack  of  prosecution  by  her,  seeing  that  she  is  abiding  continually 
in  the  city  of  London  for  that  the  time  of  her  lying  in  is  shortly  expected, 
wherefore  she  may  not  journey  to  York  to  prosecute  her  appeal,  and 
she  has  prayed  the  king  to  save  her  harmless. 

April  8.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  if  the  facts  are  as  hereinafter 

Westminster,  stated,  to  suffer  the  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  to  have  the  rendering 
of  judgment  in  a  cause  between  Ellis  Mympe  '  broudurere  '  and 
William  Otryngton  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  41.,  and  also  in 
another  cause  between  the  parties  concerning  an  alleged  trespass, 
according  to  the  reservation  in  the  king's  late  writ  to  the  sheriffs 
addressed,  if  so  it  is  used  to  be  done  in  the  said  city  in  like  case  ;  as 
lately  learning  that  those  causes,  which  were  before  the  sheriffs  in  the 
court  of  the  said  city  without  writ  of  the  king,  were  long  delayed, 
the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  proceed  to  render  judgments 
therein  according  to  the  custom  of  the  city  of  London  ;  and  now  the 
king  is  informed  that  before  his  said  writ  was  delivered  the  said  mayor 
specially  reserved  the  rendering  of  those  judgments  to  the  jurisdiction 
of  his  court,  as  was  lawful  for  him  to  do  according  to  the  liberties  and 
custom  of  the  city  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  keep  inviolate  the 
liberties  and  custom  thereof. 


MEMBRANE   \6d. 

Feb.  16.         To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London,  Dovorre  or 

Westminster.  Sandwich.     Order  to  suffer  John    Squyer  of    Seynesbury  clerk,  who 

with  the  king's  licence  is  journeying  over  sea.  in  one  of  those  ports 

without  let  to  pass. thither,  any  command  to  them  previously  addressed 

to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

Feb.  14.  To  the  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in 

Westminster.  Oxfordshire.  Order  to  stay  the  execution  henceforward  within  the 
town  and  suburb  of  Oxford  of  the  king's  commission  to  them  made  ; 
as  by  his  letters  patent  he  has  appointed  the  chancellor  of  the  university 
of  Oxford  or  his  vice-chancellor,  the  mayor  of  the  said  town  for  the  time 
being,  Walter  Perle,  David  Hannemere  and  John  de  Baldyngton 
guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  the  said 
town  and  suburb,  and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  the  said  letters 
patent  contained. 

Writing  of  Ingelram  Bruyn,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
Sir  Robert  de  Marny  knight  and  Dame  Alice  his  wife  mother  of  the 
said  Ingelram,  and  to  their  assigns  during  their  lives,  of  the  manor 
and  advowson  of  South wokyndon,  the  advowson  of  a  certain  chapel 
in  that  town,  and  the  advowson  of  the  hospital  of  St.  John  Baptist 
Sedeburghebroke  co.  Essex,  which  manor  they  now  hold,  granting 
further  that  they  shall  during  the  said  term  be  quit  of  all  action  for 
waste,  sale  and  destruction  therein.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Yonge, 
Thomas  Belhous,  John  de  Berden,  Sir  Robert  de  Bourton  rector 
of  Southwokyndon  aforesaid,  Sir  John  Scropham  chaplain,  Sir  John 
Colyn  chaplain,  Philip  atte  Bregge.  Dated  London,  1  March 
50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London,  3 
March. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    I.  M41 


1  ""576.  Membrane  16d — cont. 

Feb.  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Hereford  (me).  Order,  by  mainprise  of  John  de 
Westminster.  Croft  (1f  (  nliiiu oid  and  John  Page  of  Tingsford  of  Bedfordshire  to 
stay  f  n  it  he!-  publication  of  the  exigents  against  John  Page  of  Rokesdon, 
bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  Agnes  who  was 
wife  ol  Stephen  Bryd,  William  Wylyngham  and  Thomas  Beeok  execu- 
tors of  the  said  Stephen  arc  impleading  John  Page  of  Rokesdon  before 
the  said  justices  to  render  to  them  12/.,  and  the  defendant  is  put  in 
in  the  sheriff's  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that  be  came  not 
before  the  said  justices  to  answer  them,  being  without  knowledge 
thereof,  wherefore  he  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing  thai 
he  is  ready  to  answer  the  said  executors  and  stand  to  right  in  all 
things  ;  and  the  said  John  de  Croft  and  John  Fage  of  Tingsford. 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents 
is  returnable. 

March  9.         William  Venour  citizen  of  London  to  William  Walleworth  citizen 

Westminster,  and  alderman  of  London.     Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to  be  levied, 

in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Writing  of  William  Venour  citizen  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  William  Baldewyne  citizen  and  saddler  of  London  and 
Richard  atte  Gore,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  called  the 
Gydyhalle  in  the  town  of  Haveryng  co.  Esm\.  a  messuage  and  Lands 
in  the  same  town  called  the  '  Ksthous.'  and  of  all  lands  etc.  in  that 
town  which  the  said  William  Baldewyne  had  by  grant  of  Robert  de 
Haveryng.  Witnesses  :  William  Walleworth.  Nicholas  Twyford,  John 
Aubrav  citizens  and  aldermen  of  London.  Ralph  Tvle.  John  Bedeford. 
Dated  24  February  50  Edward  111. 

Writing  of  William  Venour  citizen  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  John  Caundich  knight.  William  de  Aston  and 
William  Wynter  clerks,  Philip  de  Holgot,  Robert  Wyke  and  Geoffrej 
Bluet,  then  beirs  and  assigns,  of  a  manor  called  the  Gydyhalle  in  the 
town  of  Haveryng  co.  Essex,  a  messuage  and  lands  in  t  hi'  same  town 
called  the  'Esthous',  and  all  lands  etc.  in  that  town  which  William 
Baldewyne  citizen  and  saddler  of  London  had  by  grant  of  Robert  de 
Haveryng.     Wit  [as  th<   last).     Dated  s  March  60  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  in  the 
chancery  at   Westminster,  U  March. 

•  Ian.  :;ii.  To  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk,  John  de  Buttetourte, 
Westminster  Jolm  de  Clynton,  William  de  Wychyngham,  Thomas  de  tngelby, 
Henry  de  Axderne  and  Robert  de  Warrewyk.  Order  not  to  meddle 
further  until  further  order  bj  virtue  "i  the  king's  late  letten  patent 
in  doing  aught  in  the  town  of  Coventre  in  regard  to  the  matters  in 
'  In  iaid  letters  contained,  whereby  the  king  appointed  them  guardians  of 
the  peace  in  Want  iokshire  and  guardians  of  the  statutes  of  Winchester, 
Norhampion  and  Westminster  lor  keeping  the  peace  within  liberties 

and  without  also  appointing  them,  six,  live,  four,  three  and  two  ot 
them  just  oyer  and  terminer  there  within  liberties  and  without. 

and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  the  said  h  ttei-  patent  contained  . 
a-  now  !>v  othei  letti  rs  patent  the  king  has  appointed  'In-  -.ml  William 
and  Thomas  de   [ngelby   with  Hugh  de  Segrave,  John  de  Cateeby, 


342 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376. 


Membrane  10rf — cont. 


John  de  Toft,  Simon  Licchef eld,  John  Percy  anil  John  de  Herewyk guard- 
ians of  the  peace  and  of  the  said  statutes  in  that  town,  also  appointing 
them  justices  of  oj^er  and  terminer  therein,  and  to  do  all  other  the 
things  above  mentioned. 

.March  19.        Thomas   Cogeshale   and   Roger   Keterych   to   William   de   Wauton 
Westminster,  knight  and  John  de  Gildesburgh.     Recognisance  for  1,000  marks,  to 
be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  John. 

March  21.        William  Swanlond  to  Richard  de  Everdon  parson  of  St.  Bennet 
Westminster,  by    '  Paules wharf  :    and   John   Stevene   of   Aldenham.     Recognisance 
for  4:01.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Hertfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Richard. 

John  son  of  Adam  le  Vaus  of  Beaufrount  in  the  county  of  Hextildes- 
ham  to  John  de  Corbrigge  and  William  his  brother.  Recognisance  for 
1001.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 

Alexander  de  Massyngham  of  Westwalton  chaplain  to  Hugh  de 
Gaudeby  clerk.     Recognisance  for  41.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norffolk. 

March  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  Shepere 
Westminster,  of  Maydestan,  if  the  petitioner  is  put  in  exigents  for  the  cause  hereinafter 
mentioned  and  for  none  other,  by  mainprise  of  Peter  atte  Taberd  of 
London  '  skynner,'  Richard  Gray  of  London  '  skynner,'  William  Toche 
of  London  '  smyth  '  and  Henry  Maydestan  of  London  '  skynner  '  to 
stay  the  execution  of  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of  Hugh 
Hesyere  of  Canterbury  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  is  thereby  put 
in  exigents  in  Kent  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  in  the  king's 
court  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  to  answer  the  plaintiff  concerning 
an  alleged  debt  of  5  marks,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  at  the  day 
the  said  writ  is  returnable,  and  to  stand  to  right  thereupon  ;  and  the 
said  Peter  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  100s.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said 
justices  at  that  day. 

Writing  of  Maud  daughter  of  Lawrence  de  Leek,  being  the  confirma- 
tion of  a  charter  of  feoffment  by  her  said  father  made  to  Richard  de 
Ravenser  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  Frederick  de  Tylney  of  St.  Botolph, 
William  Tullymound  and  Robert  de  Somersby  rector  of  a  mediety 
of  Leverton  church,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  certain  specified  lands 
therein  contained,  with  reversions,  knights'  fees,  advowsons  of  churches, 
pastures,  fisheries,  commodities  and  rights  whatsoever  ;  and  quitclaim 
with  warranty  of  the  premises  to  the  said  feoffees,  their  heirs  and 
assigns.     Dated  London,  1  April  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  April. 


April  15. 
Eltham 
manor. 


Richard  Broun  one  of  the  king's  smiths  (fabrorum)*  is  sent  to  the 
master  and  brethren  of  Osprenge  hospital,  to  have  for  life  such  main- 
tenance as  John  Crowe  deceased  had  therein.  By  p.s.  [30957.] 


In  the  warrant  (French)  ferroure. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    1  .4 


1376.  MEMBRANE   I5d. 

Writing  oi  .Maud  daughter  of  Lawrence  de  Leek,  being  1 1 1 < -  confirm  i 
tion  of   i  charter  of  feoffment  by  her  said  father  made  to  Richard  de 
Ravenser   archdeacon   of   Lincoln   and    Dame    babel    de    Eriskenay 

daughter  of  the  said  Lawrence  and  sister  of  the  said  .Maud,  then 
heirs  and  assigns  of  certain  specified  lands  therein  contained,  with 
reversions,  knights1  fees,  advowsons  of  churches,  pastures,  fishei 
commodities  and  rights  whatsoever:  and  quitclaim  with  warranty 
>t  the  premises  t<>  the  said  Richard  and  Isabel,  their  heirs  and  assigns. 
Dated  London.  1  April  50  Edward  11! 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  April. 

Writing  indented  of  Robert  Freville,  brother  and  heir  of  John 
Freville,  reciting  that  Ellen  who  was  wife  of  the  said  John  holds  of  the 
said  Robert's  heritage  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Little  Shelford  CO. 
Cantebrigge  by  gift  of  John  de  Barneton  late  parson  of  Little  Shelford 
to  the  said  Ellen  and  John  Freville  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies  with 
reversion  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  said  Robert,  that  the  said  John 
Freville  is  dead  without  issue  by  the  said  Ellen,  also  that  John  de 
Brewes  knight  and  Agnes  his  wife  hold  of  the  said  Robert's  herit 
two  thirds  of  the  manor  of  Caxton  and  of  a  messuage,  152  acres  of 
land,  11  acre  of  meadow,  8  acres  of  pasture  and  12s.  \d.  of  rent  in 
Westwrottyng,  Carleton  and  Ballesham  co.  Cantebrigge  by  gift  of  John 
de  Carleton  and  John  Selverlce  lately  made  to  the  said  Agnes  and  to 
Richard  son  of  the  said  John  Freville  sometime  her  husband  and  to 
the  heirs  of  their  bodies  with  reversion  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the 
said  Robert,  that  the  said  Richard  died  without  issue  by  the  said 
\gnes,  that  the  said  Ellen  holds  in  dower  the  remaining  third  pari  of 
the  said  manor  of  Caxton  and  of  the  said  messuage,  lands  and  rent  in 
West  w  lot  tyng.  Carleton  and  Ballesham,  and  that  after  her  (hath  and  the 
death  of  the  said  Agnes  (in  case  she  shall  overlive  the  said  Ellen)  the  Bame 
oughl  likewise  to  revert  to  the  said  Robert;  and  granting  with  warranty 
to  Hugh  Fastolf ,  John  de  Hampton,  Ralph  parson  of  Chestreford  and 
Robert  de  Melton  clerk  and  to  their  heirs  the  reversions  aforesaid 
of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Little  Shelford,  the  manor  of  Caxton 
and  th<'  premises  in  Westwrottyng,  Carleton  and  Ballesham,  upon 
condition  that  lhe\  shall  take  an  attornment  of  the  said  Ellen  and 
of  the  said  John  de  Brewes  and  Agnes,  and  that  they  may  ni\e  the  said 
reversion  to  him  the  said  Robert  Freville  for  life  with  remainder  to 
Thomas  his  son  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  remainder  for  lack  ol  such 
issue  to  the  heirs  and  aSSUZnfi  of  the  said  Robert  l'"re\  ille.  Dated  1  A  pi  'I 
60  I'M  ward  111. 

AIi  morandum  of  acknowledgment    2  April. 

Writing  oi   William  Swanlond  oi  Middli  jiving  with  warranty 

to    William    de    Wotlon    oitizen    and    WOOlmongO]    "I    London,    hi-    h 

ind  a  signs,  100«.  oi  bee  and  quil  rent  to  he  taken  yearlj  at  the  foui 
usual  terms  of  all  t he  lands,  rents  and  services  of  'he  donor  iii  lb  refold 

Middlesex  which  were  sometime  of  Sir  Thomas  d<  Saumford 
with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  :   and  in  name  of  seisin  he  has   tins 
<ia\  paid  25s.  for  the  first  quarter  of  the  first  year.     Witn<  rhoma 

Brakenburgh,  Ralph  Boker,  John  Baldew       I  Odiam,  William 

Brekespere*.     hated  Elerefeld,  lb  June  IS  Edward  111. 


:;n 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Membrane  15d — cont. 

Writing  of  William  Swanlond  of  Middlesex,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  William  de  Wot  ton  citizen  and  woolmonger  of  London, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  31s.  3d?,  of  yearly  free  and  quit  rent  which  he 
the  said  William  Swanlond  used  to  take  of  certain  lands  in  Herefeld 
co.  Middlesex  which  William  de  Wotton  holds  of  him  in  chief,  namely 
the  13s.  4d.  which  he  used  to  take  of  a  tenement  which  was  of  John 
de  Wot  ton  father  of  the  said  William,  the  16s.  Sd.  which  he  used  to 
lake  of  a  piece  of  land  in  the  said  town  called  Houfridig,  the  12d.  which 
he  used  to  take  of  a  piece  of  land  there  called  Poaperydyng,  and  3d. 
which  he  used  to  take  of  a  piece  of  land  called  Cornley,  all  now 
held  by  William  de  Wotton,  rendering  nevertheless  yearly  to  the 
said  William  Swanlond  one  red  rose  at  Midsummer  for  all  secular 
services  and  demands.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Brakenbergh,  Ralph 
Boukere,  John  Baldewyne,  John  Huges,  Robert  Hamond.  Dated 
Herefeld,  10  November' 49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  3  April 
this  year. 

April  5.  John    Wymynton    and    Thomas    Rotour   to   John   Gilberd,    Roger 

Westminster.  Richard  and  John  Ricolf  the  younger.  Recognisance  for  505.,  to 
be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Bedford- 
shire. 

April  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Legburne, 

Westminster,  by  mainprise  of  John  Harewode  of  London  '  marchal  '  and  Henry 
Durant  of  London  '  harbour  '  to  cause  two  horses  of  his,  one  black  and 
the  other  dun  {fusci  coloris),  and  other  goods  to  be  delivered  to  the 
petitioner  for  safe  keeping  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  Thomas  Werk- 
man,  being  newly  pursued  to  the  town  of  Bedeford  with  the  manner  of 
the  said  horses  and  goods  by  him  feloniously  stolen  at  Totenham,  was 
there  taken  with  the  same  by  the  bailiffs  of  Bedeford  and  is  there 
imprisoned  in  the  king's  prison,  praying  that  the  king  will  send  the 
said  Thomas  to  answer  before  him  for  that  felony  in  the  quinzaine  of 
Easter,  and  meanwhile  will  deliver  the  said  manner  to  the  petitioner 
as  aforesaid. 


April  13.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  the  chief  justice.  Order  to  stay  until  after 
Westminster.  Wnitsuntide  next  further  proceedings  by  him  or  his  fellows  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  letters  patent  appointing  the  said  chief  justice  with  certain 
other  lieges  to  hear  and  determine  certain  alleged  trespasses  lately 
committed  by  Nicholas  Stalworth  and  certain  others  against  the  prior 
of  Wymondeham,  and  of  the  king's  commands  to  them  addressed  ; 
as  by  sufficient  witness  the  king  has  learned  that  at  a  day  whereon 
there  ought  to  have  been  treaty  of  concord  between  the  said  parties 
by  knights  and  other  true  men  of  Norffolk,  the  prior  shewed  himself 
in  all  things  unreasonable. 

April  15.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  de 
Westminster.  Wodhull  clerk,  by  mainprise  of  William  Assheborne  of  London 
'  merchant,'  William  de  Felmersham  of  London  '  sadeler,'  William 
Baldrit  of  London  '  masoun  '  and  Nicholas  Pety  of  London  '  masoun  ' 
to  stay  the  execution  of  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of 
John  Curteys  of  Wymyngton,  it  put  in  exigents  by  reason  thereof 
and  not  otherwise,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ; 


50    KDU'ARD    III.— Part    I.  345 


1376.  Membrane  15rf — mnt. 

as  his  petition  therm  that  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  Bedfordshire  to 
be  outlawed  for  that  ho  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer 
the  plaintiff  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  3(M.,  and  that  he  is  read] 
to  answer  the  day  the  said  writ  is  returnable,  and  to  stand  to  right 
in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  William  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  30/.  to  have  tin-  --aid 
defendant's  body  at  that  day  before  the  said  ju^tir.^  so  to  answer,  and 
further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  shall  determine. 

MEMBRANE   \4ft. 

Writing  of  Maud  daughter  of  Lawrence  de  Leeke,  confirming  a 
charter  of  feoffment  by  her  said  father  made  to  Dame  Isabel  de 
Friskenay  his  daughter,  sister  of  the  said  Maud,  her  heirs  and  assi_ 
of  certain  lands  therein  contained,  ami  confirming  the  estate  of  the 
said  Isabel  in  those  lands,  and  in  all  lands  which  she  has  by  gift  of 
Richard  de  Bavenser  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  Frederick  de  Tilneye  oi 
St.  Botolph,  William  Tullymound  and  Robert  de  Somersby  rector 
of  a  mediety  of  Levertou  church,  with  the  reversions,  knights'  fees. 
advowsons  of  churches,  pastures,  fisheries,  commodities  and  rights 
whatsoever  ;  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  of  the  premises  to  the  said 
Isabel,  her  heirs  and  assigns.     Dated  London,  1  April  50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Maud  daughter  of  Lawrence  de  Leek,  confirming  a 
charter  of  feoffment  by  her  said  father  made  to  Frederick  de  Tilneye 
of  St.  Botolph.  Geoffrey  de  fteuland  of  Benyngton  chaplain,  William 
SOD  of  Roger  of  the  same.  John  Colder  of  the  same.  John  Kianyehe  oi 
the  same,  John  Neuland  of  the  same.  .Margaret  daughter  of  Ralph  of 
the  same.  Richer  Smyth  of  the  same  and  Simon  de  Touton,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  certain  lands  in  the  town  of  Benyngton  and  in  Kennc 
by  the  town  of  St.  Botolph  in  the  said  charter  contained,  and  confirming 
the  estate  of  tin;  said  feoffees  therein  and  in  the  reversions,  knights' 
fees,  advowsons  of  churches,  pastures,  fisheries,  commodities  and 
rights  thereto  pertaining  ;  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  of  the  premises 
to  the  said  feoffees,  their  heirs  and  assigns.      Dated  [as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  2  April. 

April  1.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Dovy  of 

Westminster.   London,   William   de  Snetesham   and    Nicholas  Swerdeston  of  Norffols 

to  stay  the  execution   of  a   writ    of  exigents  against    Walter   Dunton, 

John  Faldyate  and  Richard  Faukes  and  the  taking  of  their  bodies  ; 

the    king   has    learned    that    lately    before   tin-   justices   oi    the    Bench 
Adam  I'euteny  impleaded  the  said  Walter  tor  an  alleged  dcl.t   of  501., 

John    Faldyate   for  an   alleged   debl    of  20/.    and   the  said    Richard 

for    an    alleged    debt    Of    20/..    and    by    process    thereupon    had    he    BO 

far  prosecuted   the  business  that   by  writ   dt   judicio  the  sheriffs 

ordered    to    put    the   defendants    in   exigents    from    busting  to    husting 

until   outlawed    if   they  shall    not    appear,  and   if  they  shall  appear 

to    lake    them    and     keep    them    ill    -ale    OUStodj     so      is     to    ha\c    their 

bodies  before  the  said  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  ot 
Michaelmas  next  to  answer  upon  thai  pies  ;  and  the  said  John  Dovj 
and  the  others,  appearing  in   person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 

under   B    pain    of    ••(»/.    to    ha\e    the   defendants'    bodic.     befOM    the   mmkI 

justices  at  the  di\  mentioned. 


346 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1.H76.  Membrane  14d — cant. 

March  20.  To  the  sheriff  of  Worcester.  Order  of  the  king's  favour  by  mainprise 
Westminster,  of  Robert  Massy,  John  Cristelton  of  Warwickshire,  Thomas  Perot  of 
Worcestershire  and  Richard  Payn  of  Berkshire  to  stay  the  publication 
of  the  exigents  or  waiver  against  Agnes  Harries  of  Yerdele  daughter 
of  Henry  de  Fulford  ;  as  she  has  shewn  the  king  that  being  indicted 
before  John  Botour  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices 
of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Worcestershire,  for  the  death  of  Agnes  Hebben 
of  Yerdeleye,  she  is  put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  waived  for  that 
she  came  not  before  those  justices  to  answer  thereupon,  and  is  next 
time  to  be  waived  as  she  avers,  and  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay 
seeing  that  by  his  command  the  indictment  is  sent  before  the  king 
in  chancery,  and  that  she  is  ready  there  to  answer  at  the  king's  pleasure 
and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Robert  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  body  for  body 
under  a  pain  of  10Z.  to  have  her  before  the  king  in  the  quinzaine  of 
Easter. 

Writing  of  John  Brit  knight,  William  de  Preston  of  the  Hill  of  York- 
shire and  Peter  Clerk  of  Hedon  in  the  said  county,  being  a  bond  to 
Robert  Kaylly  and  Edmund  de  Wightham  in  36Z.  16s.  6d.  payable 
in  the  dwelling  house  of  Agnes  Frowyk  in  Chepe  London  on  Midsummer 
eve  next.     Dated  London,  Monday  after  St.  Ambrose  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  April. 

April  14.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Spylwynd 
Westminster.  '  baker  '  and  Ralph  Suthwcll  '  taillour  '  of  the  suburbs  of  London  to 
stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents  against  Walter  Spillewynd 
vicar  of  Langham,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ; 
as  John  Dys  '  cordeuaner '  and  William  Margarette  of  Jernemuth  are 
impleading  the  said  Walter  before  the  said  justices  for  a  certain  alleged 
debt,  and  altogether  without  his  knowledge  as  he  says  he  is  put  in 
exigents  in  Norffolk  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said 
justices  to  answer  thereupon,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  the  king  for  a 
stay  ;  and  the  said  John  Spylwynd  and  Ralph,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  10Z.  to  have  the  defen- 
dant's body  before  the  said  justices  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is 
returnable. 


April  9.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Hugh  de  Brompton 

Westminster,  of  London  '  skynnere,'  Robert  Porter  of  London  '  skynnere,'  Henry 
Pountfreyt  of  London  '  skynnere  '  and  Hugh  de  Miton  of  Yorkshire 
to  stay  altogether  the  further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering 
the  sheriffs  to  cause  Andrew  de  Shaldef ord  of  London  '  skynnere  '  to 
come  before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under 
a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would 
answer,  would  mainpern  him  that  he  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily 
hurt  or  harm  to  Thomas  Pateshull  parson  of  St.  John  Walbroke,  and 
if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  Neugate  gaol  there  to  be  kept 
in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  as  that  writ  issued  upon 
the  prayer  of  the  said  parson,  lately  averring  that  the  said  Andrew 
threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs  ;  but  the  said  Hugh  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under 
a  pain  of  40/. 


50    EDWARD    111—  Part    I 


:U7 


1376. 


M<  mbrant    lb/ — <nnt . 


Aprils.         To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.     Order,  for  particular  can  v  until 

Westminster,    one    month    after    Kastcr    next    the    distress    which     he     i^     making    DV 

exchequer   Bummons   upon    the    lands    pertaining    to   Thurle    priory, 

which  is  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  war  with  Prance  and  in 
the  keeping  of  Richard  Stury  by  the  king's  commission,  for  payment 
to  the  king  of  certain  debts  and  arrears  oi  the  last  prior. 

Memorandum  that  on  '••  April  this  year  John  Sonde,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery  at  the  inn  of  the  friars  preachers  London,  humbly 
submitted  to  the  king's  grace,  acknowledging  that  he  owed  the  king 
1,000/.  payable  at  Whitsuntide  next,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

MEMBRANE   \ld* 

April  21.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Marehal 
Westminster,  of  London  and  John  Bygoun  of  Bedfordshire  to  stay  until  the  octaves  of 
Trinity  next  the  execution  of  a  writ  of  exigents  against  John  Fever 
of  Whitchurche  clerk  and  the  taking  of  his  body  :  as  the  khui  has 
learned  that  William  de  Cosyngton  knight  lately  impleaded  the  said 
John  Fever  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  for  an  alleged  trespass, 
and  by  process  thereupon  had  so  far  prosecuted  the  business  that  by 
writ  de  judicio  order  was  given  to  the  sheriffs  to  put  the  defendant 
in  exigents  from  husting  to  busting  until  outlawed  if  he  should  not 
appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him  and  keep  him  in  safe 
custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day 
aforesaid  to  answer  thereupon  :  and  the  said  Richard  and  John  Bygoun, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  inainperned  under  a  pain  of 
20  marks  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  at  that  day. 

April  25.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Roger  Raulyn, 
Westminster.  John  de  Corston  and  Bartholomew  de  Fret  on  of  Norffolk  to  stay  the 
execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  concerning  the  taking  of  the  body  of 
John  Scogan  ;  as  lately  upon  the  petition  of  William  parson  of  Kstreyn- 
ham,  averring  thai  the  said  John  threatened  his  person  and  to  burn 
his  houses,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause  the  said  John  to  come 
before  him  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain 
to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriff  would  answi  I 
would  mainpern  the  said  -John  that  he  should  do  or  procure  no  hurt 
or    harm    to    the    said    parson,    and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit 

him    to    the    nearest     gaol    there    tO    be    Kept    in    safe  custody  until  he 

would  willingly  so  do  ;  but  the  said   Roger  and   the  others,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  inainperned  that   he  shall  do  or  procure 

no  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  parson  in  hifl  person  and  hou 


April  24.        To   S.   archbishop   of   Canterbury.     Order   and   request    upon   his 

Westminster,    allegiance,  as  he   lovei    the   king  and   hi^-  honour  and  desires  th«'  -  ifct  \ 
and  defence   of    the    ohurch    and    realm    of    England,    at    the    earliest 

possible  day  to  summon  a  convocation  oi  his  suffragans,  the  deans  and 

prion    Of    cathedral    churches,    the    abbots,    priors    and    Other    elective 

persons  exempt  and  not  exempt,  the  archdeacons,  chapters,  convents, 
colleges  and  all  the  olergj  oi  ever}  diocese  oi  the  province  oi  Canterbury 

•    Tn«-  dome  of  membnnM    13  and    \2  ih   hlunk. 


348  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  lid — cent. 

in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  or  elsewhere  as  he  shall  see  fit,  there  to 
lay  before  them  the  business  of  the  salvation  of  the  said  church  and 
the  defence  of  the  realm,  and  to  apply  himself  effectually  to  induce 
them  to  grant  a  competent  subsidy  in  aid  of  the  charges  which  the 
king  must  bear,  certifying  in  chancery  the  amount  of  such  subsidy 
and  the  terms  of  payment  ;  as  for  the  aforesaid  purpose  the  king 
must  needs  lavish  costs  and  expenses,  the  charge  whereof  the  king 
is  not  able  to  bear  without  the  aid  of  his  lieges,  as  the  archbishop 
is  aware. 

[Fcedera.     Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv,  p.  668.] 
The  like  to  A.  archbishop  of  York,  to  summon  a  convocation  in  the 
church  of  St.  Peter  York. 
[Ibid.] 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Henry  de  Bernak  rector  of  Bokesworth 
in  the  diocese  of  Ely  and  Sir  Reynold  de  Shirlond  clerk,  being  a  lease 
of  Bokesworth  church  with  the  tithes  great  and  small  and  all  other 
commodities,  profits  and  proventions  thereto  belonging,  to  the 
said  Reynold,  his  executors  and  assigns  for  four  years  from  this  date 
to  the  value  of  401.  a  year,  of  which  sum  the  lessee  shall  during  the 
said  term  pay  to  the  lessor  or  his  attorney  at  Bokesworth  201.  only 
at  Michaelmas,  St.  Thomas  the  Apostle  before  Christmas  next,  the 
Purification  and  Easter  following  by  even  portions,  and  other  201. 
shall  every  year  be  kept  in  the  lessee's  hands  in  part  payment  of  80Z. 
wherein  the  lessor  was  bound  to  him,  reserving  to  the  lessor  and  to  his 
assigns  during  that  term  all  the  chambers  on  the  upper  side  of  the 
hall,  a  house  called  the  '  chafhous,'  another  called  the  '  longe  shepcote,' 
and  stabling  sufficient  for  three  horses  within  the  inner  close  of  the 
rectory,  with  free  ingress  and  egress,  reserving  also  until  Midsummer 
next  free  easement  in  all  the  rectory  houses,  with  free  ingress  and 
egress  to  sell,  carry  and  take  away  all  his  goods  and  chattels  quick 
and  dead,  and  like  easement  to  the  lessee  and  his  assigns  until  Mid- 
summer after  the  said  term  expired  ;  covenants  that  the  lessor  shall 
before  Midsummer  next  repair  the  residue  of  the  houses  which  the 
lessee  shall  occupy,  and  when  so  repaired  and  not  otherwise  the  lessee 
shall  maintain  the  same  and  surrender  them  at  the  end  of  the  term, 
tempest,  sudden  disaster  and  fire  excepted,  that  the  lessee  shall  bear  all 
charges  toward  the  archdeacon  and  his  officers,  the  lessor  toward  the  pope, 
the  king,  the  cardinals,  the  bishop  and  all  others,  that  at  the  end  of  the 
term  the  lessee  shall  leave  as  many  acres  of  land  sown,  dunged,  ploughed 
and  again  ploughed  as  he  received,  that  the  lessor  shall  not  exchange  or 
resign  his  said  church  during  that  term  save  with  consent  of  the  lessee, 
that  if  during  the  said  term  the  lessor  shall  content  the  lessee  of  the 
sum  to  him  due  as  aforesaid  it  shall  be  lawful  for  him  to  enter  and 
take  again  the  said  church  disposing  thereof  at  his  will,  and  that  if 
the  farm  payable  to  the  lessor  shall  be  one  month  in  arrear  after  any  term 
in  whole  or  in  part  it  shall  be  lawful  for  the  lessor  to  enter  the  said 
church  and  take  it  again  into  his  hands  until  thereof  fully  contented  ; 
and  bond  in  200  marks  by  the  lessee  and  Amery  Wymondham  to  the 
lessor  and  his  executors,  and  like  bond  by  the  lessor  to  the  lessee 
and  his  executors,  for  fulfilment  of  these  covenants.  Witnesses  : 
Lawrence  de  Allerthorp  clerk,  John  Breton,  Thomas  de  Sutton, 
Robert  Plesyngton.     Dated  London,  St.  Valentine's  day  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  6  May. 


fiO    EDWARD    III.— Part    I. 


:i4i» 


1«j7(>.  Memhratic  \\d — covt. 

Charter  of  Nicholas  Croke  of  Laookea  Wyke  en.  \\  ilt**«ir,  cousin  and 
heir  of  John  Croke  of  Saselbury,  giving  with  warranty  to  Warin  de 
Insula  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  10  quarters  of 
grain,  namely  8  quarters  of  wheat  and  8  quarters  of  barley,  which  he 
the  said  Nicholas  claims  to  have  of  all  the  lands  in  Drayoote  Folyot 
sometime  of  Warin  ile  Insula  knight  uncle  of  the  said  Warin  ;and  quit 
claim  of  all  right  in  the  said  lands  and  rent  to  the  first  named  Warin.  his 
heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses:  Nicholas  Tamworth  John  Kentwode, 
Rohert  Symeon  knights.  Gilbert  Shotesbroke,  William  fiayoroft, 
John  Walden.     Dated  Chilton  Folyot  co.  Wiltesir,  3  May  60  l-M  w  ard  1 1 1 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  May. 

May  8.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  and  the  commonalty  of  the  town  of  la 

Westminster.  Rey.  Order  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  as  they  love  the  king  and 
his  honour,  with  all  possible  speed  to  cause  all  the  fencible  men  in 
that  town  to  be  furnished  with  arms,  arrayed  and  kepi  in  array,  and 
to  cause  the  town  to  be  fortified,  so  as  to  be  ready  to  resist  the  king's 
enemies  if  any  shall  presume  to  attack  the  town  by  land  or  water  ;  and 
further  order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf 
straitly  forbidding  any  man  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  now 
having  his  conversation  in  the  town  to  withdraw  or  depart  thence 
or  to  remove  his  goods,  property  or  chattels. 
[Feeder  a.} 

Indenture  of  lease  with  warranty  made  by  William  Bardolf  lord  of 
Wyrmegeye  co.  Xorffolk  to  Sir  John  Disseford  clerk,  his  executors  and 

signs,  for  twelve  years  from  Michaelmas  last  of  the  whole  manor  of 
Walton  atte  Stone  co.  Hertford  with  the  water  mill,  free  warren  and  all 
other  commodities  and  appurtenances,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  sen  ices 
of  tenants  in  the  town  of  Stapelford.  the  advowson  of  Stapelford  church 
and  Watton  free  chapel  excepted,  rendering  every  year  36  marks 
at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  contenting  the  king  and 
the  lords  of  the  fee  of  all  services  and  charges  thereupon  due.  with 
proviso  that  the  lessor,  his  heirs  and  executors,  shall  have  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears  after  one  month;  covenant  that  the  lessee  shall 
a1  his  own  cost  new  make  and  repair  the  said  mill  and  the  '  llodegates 
and  scour  the  '  damme  '  thereto  belonging,  shall  buy  and  have  there 
two  sufficient  stones  of  Normandy,  shall  cover  and  repair  one  long 

'  shephous  '  and  the  house  Standing  at   the  end  thereof,  shall  maintain 

all  the  same  durum  the  said  term  ana  bo  surrender  them  at  the  end  of  the 

term,  BO  that   it   shall  not   be  lawful  for  him,  his  executors  and  assigns. 
to  waste  the  wood  of  the  said  manor  all  that   time,  provided   that    the 

least  e,  his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  not  be  troubled  concerning  waste  ol  a 
house  and  pie<  <•  of  ground  late  ol  1 1  nhml  le  Reve,  but  shall  he  altogether 
discharged    thereof,     hated    I    March    50    Edward    III.     Witness* 
Sir  Thomas  Pitlyng,  Sir  Robert    Strange  knights,    Nicholas   Wyntre, 
John  atte  Bane    Roger  de  Berkele,  John  Thurston  ol  Watton. 
Memorandum  ol  acknowledgment  by  the  lessor.  2  Maj 

MBMBR  INE  Kir/. 

April  23.         To  the  sheriffs  ol  London.     Ordei  bj  mainprise  of  Thomas  Cheaham 

Wcstmimter  'oarpente]     and  William    Bumstede     taillour '  of  the  oitj  of  London 

to  set  free  John  Rodyng  of  London  from  Neugat*   prison     ai  on  bin 


:tfO  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1370.  Membrane  lOd — cont. 

behalf  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  deliverance,  shewing  that  he  is 
taken  and  committed  to  the  said  gaol  and  there  detained  at  the  suit 
of  John  de  Acres  parson  of  St.  Bartholomew  '  Littill  '  by  his  bill  averring 
that  the  prisoner  threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs  ;  and  the  said 
Thomas  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  main- 
perned  under  a  pain  of  40/.  that  he  shall  not  do  nor  procure  bodily 
hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  parson. 

Writing  of  William  de  Assheden  of  Westwyttenham  co.  Berkes,  being 
a  gift  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Louches  of  London,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  right  which  now  or  hereafter  may  fall  to 
the  said  William  or  his  heirs  in  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in 
Westwyttenham  which  he  the  said  William  had  and  lately  by  writing 
indented  demised  and  to  farm  let  for  twenty  years  to  the  said  John, 
his  heirs,  executors  and  assigns,  by  virtue  whereof  the  said  John 
entered  and  does  yet  hold  and  occupy  the  same.  Witnesses  : 
John  Waryn,  John  Br  id,  John  Capy,  Walter  Daundeseye,  Thomas 
Hirdman,  John  Burgeys,  John  Morton,  Nicholas  Symkoc,  John  Rislee. 
Dated  Westwyttenham,  26  April  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  April. 

April  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire.  Order  of  the  king's  favour,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  Richard  Payn,  by  mainprise  of  Luke  Chapman  of  Abyndon 
co.  Berkes  and  Thomas  Ace  of  London  '  couper  '  to  stay  the  publication 
of  the  exigents  or  outlawry  against  him,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
king  ;  as  the  said  Richard  has  shewn  the  king  that,  being  indicted 
for  certain  felonies  before  Warin  de  Lysle  and  his  fellows  guardians 
of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Berkshire,  he  is 
put  in  exigents  in  that  county  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not 
before  them  to  answer  thereupon,  and  is  like  to  be  outlawed  as  he 
avers,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  king  at  his  pleasure, 
and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Luke  and  Thomas, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  body  for  body 
and  under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  him  before  the  king  on  the  morrow 
of  the  Ascension  to  stand  to  right  touching  the  said  indictment, 
which  the  king  will  cause  then  to  come  before  him  to  be  determined. 


*■» 


Charter  of  John  Fyne,  son  and  heir  of  Roger  Fyne  of  Manytre,  giving 
with  warranty  to  John  Sompnour  of  Manytre,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  his  lands  and  tenements  lying  in  the  town  of  Mysteleye  and  in  the 
burgage  of  Manytre,  with  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  ways,  paths, 
hays,  ditches,  dikes,  gardens,  curtilages,  renters,  buildings,  profits  and 
appurtenances.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Hardyng,  John  Hardyng,  Robert 
Hardekyn,  William  Lucas,  Robert  Talbot.  Dated  Manytre,  Monday 
after  Easter  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  April. 

Indenture  witnessing  on  behalf  of  Sir  Thomas  de  la  Barre,  one  of 
the  heirs  of  Henry  de  Penbrugge,  the  purparty  of  the  said  Henry's 
manors,  lands  etc.,  whereof  Sir  Richard  de  Burley  the  other  of  the 
said  Henry's  heirs  and  parcener  of  the  said  Thomas  shall  have  the  first 
choice  according  to  indentures  between  them  made  ;  to  wit  that  the 
manors  of  Orrewelle,  Monyton,  Neulond,  Sycherugge  (sic)  and  Sutton 
shall  remain  with  one  of  the  parceners,  the  manors  of  Eyzot,  Chehungre, 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    I.  3r>l 


1376.  Membram    \0d — cont. 

Hatherne  and  Mere  and  the  tenements  in  Hereford  with  a  meadow 
near  le  Hereford  (sic)  and  Fuoggesasche  shall  remain  with  the  other 
parcener.     Dated  London.  5  May  60  Edward  111.     French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  7  May. 

Charter  of  William  de  XVuwerk  chaplain,  giving  with  warranty 
to  James  Barbour  of  St.  Botolph,  Richard  Xorwode  of  the  same  and 
Su  William  de  Xormanton  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the 
lands  etc.  in  the  town  of  St.  Botolph  which  Henry  Frowyk  of  Middlesex, 
Henry  Lacy  now  deceased,  Roger  de  Bokyngham.  Richard  Toky  the 
younger  and  the  said  William  lately  purchased  jointly  of  Joan  who 
was  wife  of  Andrew  Aubrey  sometime  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London 
and  John  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Andrew,  and  the  said  Andrew  as  well 
of  Sir  James  de  Burford  knight  as  of  John  Enefeld.  Witnesses:  William 
de  Spaygne,  Frederick  de  Tylney,  William  Tolymond,  Richard  de 
Neuton.  John  Hulle.  Robert  Rede.  Dated  St  Botolph,  Monday 
before  St.  Philip  and  St.  James  50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  de  Xewerk  chaplain,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
appointing  John  Beverlee  citizen  of  London.  Sir  Henry  de  Carleton 
and  John  Kvng  of  Flete  to  deliver  to  James  Barbour  of  St.  Botolph. 
Richard  Xorwode  of  the  same  and  Sir  Walter  de  Xormanton  chaplain 
seisin  of  all  the  said  William's  lands  in  St.  Botolph  according  to  his 
charter  of  feoffment.  Dated  Monday  before  St.  Philip  and  St.  James 
50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  7  May. 

Writing  of  Richard  Toky  the  younger,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Henry 
Frowyk  of  Middlesex  and  Sir  William  Xewerk  chaplain,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands  etc.  in  the  town  of  St.  Botolph  which  the 
said  Henry,  Henry  Lacy  now  deceased,  the  said  William.  Roger  de 
Bokyngham  and  he  the  said  Richard  lately  purchased  jointly  of  Joan 
who  was  wife  of  Andrew  Aubrey  sometime  citizen  and  pepperer  of 
London  and  John  Aubrey  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Andrew,  and  the 
Baid  Andrew  as  well  of  Sir  James  de  Burford  knighl  as  of  John  Knefeld. 
Witnesses  :  William  de  Spaigne,  Frederick  de  Tylneye,  William  Toly- 
mond. Richard  de  Neuweton,  .John  Hulle,  Robert  Rede.  Dated 
St.  Botolph,  Monday  in  Faster  week  50  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  Of  acknowledgment,  7  May. 

Membrane  9d. 

Writing  of  Walter  de  Stratton  the  eldei  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Margery  daughter  of  Ralph  de  Shymplyngford,  hei 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Aston  co.  Suffolk  late  of  John  de 
Shymplyngford.     Dated  Westminster,  12  Maj   ">»>  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  oi  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

\l,\   13.         John  Legbome  oi  Barton  to  Michael  de  la  Pole  knight.     Recognisance 

foi  SOI.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 

in  l.ineolndu 


352  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

May  14.  I  lerard  de  Braybroke  knight  and  Master  Robert  de  Braybroke  clerk 

Westminster,  to  Nicholas  de  Wodhulle.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  1,000/. 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Bedfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Thomas  de  Rcynes  knight,  Lawrence  de  Pabenham  knight,  John 
Curteys  of  Wymynton  and  William  de  Wodhulle  to  Nicholas  de 
Wodhulle.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied 
etc.  as  above. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  14.  Nicholas  de  Wodhulle  to  Gerard  de  Braybroke  knight.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wiltesir. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Gerard  de  Bravbroke,  Master  Robert 
de  Braybroke  clerk,  Thomas  de  Raynes  knight,  Lawrence  de  Pabenham 
knight,  John  Curteys  of  Wymynton  and  William  de  Wodhulle  of  the 
one  part  and  Nicholas  de  Wodhulle  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  that 
whereas  John  de  Wodhulle  sometime  made  a  lease  to  the  said  Thomas, 
Lawrence,  John  and  William  of  the  manors  of  Great  Wodhulle, 
Little  Wodhulle  and  Langeford  co.  Bedeford  and  Patishulle  co. 
Norhampton  with  knights'  fees,  advowsons,  rents  and  services  what- 
soever for  a  term  of  years,  and  during  their  possession  thereof 
made  a  release  to  them  and  their  heirs  for  ever,  and  whereas  the 
premises  are  seized  into  the  king's  hand,  they  shall  at  their  own 
cost  sue  the  same  out  of  the  king's  hand,  making  to  the  king  a  fine, 
and  within  one  half  year  after  livery  thereof  out  of  the  king's  hand, 
by  fine  to  be  levied  in  the  king's  court  at  the  cost  of  the  said 
Nicholas,  with  the  king's  licence  at  the  cost  of  the  said  Thomas 
and  the  others,  they  shall  grant  the  premises,  quit  of  charge  or  incum- 
brance toward  the  king  or  toward  others  as  in  the  time  of  the  said 
John's  last  possession,  the  manors  of  Great  and  Little  Wodhulle 
and  Langeford  to  Sir  Gerard  de  Braybroke  and  Isabel  his  wife  for 
their  lives,  the  manor  of  Pateshulle  to  the  said  Gerard  and  Isabel 
for  the  said  Isabel's  life,  with  remainder  in  either  case  to  the  said 
Nicholas  and  his  heirs,  Sir  Gerard  delivering  to  the  said  Nicholas 
all  charters  concerning  the  premises  in  his  possession  or  the 
possession  of  any  in  his  name  upon  reasonable  warning  to  the  said 
Gerard  of  the  hour  when  he  shall  come  for  them  at  Wodhulle  after 
levying  of  the  said  fine  ;  covenant  for  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
recognisance  made  by  the  said  Gerard  and  Robert  his  brother,  and 
of  a  writing  of  rent  charge  for  200/.  by  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others 
made  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  his  heirs,  upon  condition  that  the  said 
Gerard,  Thomas  and  the  others  shall  perform  the  covenants  aforesaid, 
and  for  defeasance  of  another  recognisance  for  1,000/.  whereby  the 
said  Gerard,  Sir  Thomas  and  William  de  Wodhulle  are  bound,  upon 
condition  that  the  said  Gerard  and  Isabel  shall  be  ready  by  fine  to 
release  to  the  said  Nicholas  and  his  heirs  all  right  in  the  manors  of 
Great  Durneford,  Little  Durnef ord  and  Tiderle  co.  Wiltshire  at  the  same 
time  as  the  fine  above  mentioned  shall  be  levied,  also  of  the  foregoing 
recognisance  made  by  the  said  Nicholas  upon  condition  that  the  said 
Nicholas  shall  in  person  or  by  attorney  come  in  chancery  and  make 
such  plea  or  acknowledgment  as  shall  be  agreed  between  their  counsel 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    I. 


353 


1376. 


Membrane  !W — cont. 


in  a  scire  facias  whereby  he  shall  Ik;  warned  thai  he  -hall  have  nought 
to  Bay  wherefore  the  manors  aforesaid  shall  not  in-  delivered  to 
said  Thomas  and  the  others,  and  that  by  deed  to  lie  enrolled  in  a 
court  of  record  at  the  costs  of  the  said  Gerard  within  one  half  year 
after  levying  of  the  said  tine  he  shall  confirm  the  estate  of  the  said 
G  irard  and  Isabel  therein  according  to  the  intent  of  the  said  fine, 
thereby  Lrrantinur  that  they  shall  not  he  impeached  of  waste  by  Un- 
said Nicholas  nor  by  his  heirs.  Dated  Westminster,  L6  May 
50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  15  May. 

Writing  of  Thomas  do  Keynes  knight,  Lawrence  de  l'ubenhain 
knight,  .John  Curteys  of  Wymynton  and  William  de  Wodhulle.  granting 
to  Nicholas  de  Wodhulle.  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  2002. 
to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  their  manors 
of  Great  Wodhulle.  Little  Wodhulle  and  Langeford  eo.  Bedeford,  the 
first  term  to  begin  at  Michaelmas  next,  and  power  to  distrain  for 
arrears  therein  and  in  their  manor  of  Patishulle  co.  Nbrhampton. 
Dated  Westminster.  12  May  50  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  May. 

May  10.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 

Westminster,  holding  before  them  of  pleas  of  trespass  against  the  king's  clerk  John  de 
Patryngton  clerk  of  the  chancery,  telling  John  Wilberham  citizen  of 
London  on  the  king's  behalf  to  repair  to  the  chancellor  and  sue  for  justice 
in  chancery  if  he  shall  think  fit  :  as  the  cognisance  of  pleas  of  tresp 
committed  against  the  clerks  of  chancery  or  their  servants  and  ministers 
in  places  where  the  chancery  may  abide,  or  by  the  said  clerks,  their 
ministers  or  servants  there  dwelling  with  them  against  others,  pertain 
and  have  been  u>(h\  heretofore  to  pertain  to  the  chancellor  or  the 
keeper  of  the  seal  for  the  time  being  :  and  at  the  suit  of  the  said  John 
Wilberham,  alleging  that  divers  trespasses  are  by  the  said  clerk  com- 
mitted against  him  at  London  where  the  chancery  now  is.  the  said 
justices  aii-  holding  pleas  and  divers  plaints  between  the  parties, 
drawing  to  them  the  cognisance  which  pertains  to  the  chancellor  who 
is  now  there  and  to  none  other,  contrary  to  the  custom  aforesaid  ; 
and  it  is  the  king's  w  ill  that  his  -aid  clerk  shall  not  be  dealt  w  ith  other- 
wise than  used  to  be-  done  in  times  past. 


May  17.         John  Lillewalle  of  Bedfordshire  to  Nicholas  Eelde  <>t'  Oxfordshire. 
w .  tmii  •       ':  isance  for  34   marks  payable  by  instalments,  t<>  be  levied,  in 

default  of  payment,  of  bis  lands  and  chattels  in  Herefordshire. 

Writing  ol  John  Aubrey,  son  and  heir  of  Andrew  Aubrey  sometime 
citizen  and  pepperer  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to 
.lames  Harbour  of  St.  Botolph,  Richard  Norwode  of  the  same  and 
Sir  Walter  de  Norm  niton  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  .ill  the 
lands  in  the  town  ot  St.  Botolph  whi.h  the\  the  said  -i  tines,  Riohard 
and  Walter  have  by  gift  and  feoffment  ol  William  de  Newerk  chaplain, 
and  the  said  William,  Henry  de  Frowyk,  Bern*}  Lacy,  Rogei  de 
Bokyngham  ami  Richard  Tokj  the  younger  had  b\  gift  and  feoffment 
of  him  the  said  John  Aubrej  and  ot  Joan  In-  mother  who  was  wit' 

2-i 


354  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

the   said   Andrew.     Witnesses  :     William   de   Spaigne,   Frederick   de 
Tylneye,  William  Tolymond,  Richard  de  Neuton,  John  Hulle,  Robert 
Rede.     Dated  St.  Botolpli ,  Monday  before  the  Ascension  50  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  May. 

Writing  of  Hugh  brother  and  heir  of  Geoffrey  de  la  Marlere,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Aylesbur}^  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Abynggeworth  co.  Surrey  which  Henry  de  la 
Malere  father  of  the  said  Hugh  claimed  as  his  heritage.  Witnesses  : 
Thomas  de  Preston,  Thomas  Da  ventre  knights,  William  Nudegate, 
Robert  Lockeslee,  John  Fitz  Richard  of  Olneye.  Dated  Middelton 
Keynes  co.  Bukingham,  Wednesday  after  St.  Dunstan  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  May. 

Writing  of  Philip  Cauele  of  Melreth  clerk  and  John  Gentyng  of 
Melreth,  being  a  release  to  Stephen  Derby,  son  and  heir  of  Hugh 
Derby  of  Stanstede  Mounfichet,  of  the  clause  of  warranty  in  a  charter 
whereby  the  said  Stephen  gave  to  them  and  their  heirs  all  the  lands 
in  the  towns  of  Stanstede  Mountfichet,  Bilchangre,  Farnham  and 
Stortford  cos.  Essex  and  Hertford  which  were  of  Hugh  Derby  and 
John  Derby,  and  in  a  quitclaim  of  the  premises  after  made  to  them 
by  him.     Dated  Westminster,  24  May  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  May. 

MEMBRANE  8d. 

May  7.  Philip  le  Despenser  knight  to  Richard  de  Raveneser  archdeacon  of 

Westminster.  Lincoln.     Recognisance  for  200   marks,   to   be  levied,   in  default   of 
paj'ment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Peter  de  Of  ton,  cousin  and  heir  of  William  de  Oft  on 
Roberd  of  Bukinghamshire,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John 
son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Paynell  of  Of  ton  aforesaid,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Ofton  aforesaid.  Witnesses  : 
Peter  de  Cousaunce,  Bernard  Brokaz,  Thomas  Langeford,  John 
Kentwode  knights,  Henry  Esturmy,  Thomas  de  la  Mare,  Robert 
Bullok,  Philip  Baynard,  Adam  Banastre,  Robert  Godwyne.  Dated 
Rydyngges,  Saturday  after  St.  Peter's  Chair  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  May. 

Writing  of  John  de  Pyshale  clerk  and  Roger  de  Wolferston,  granting 
to  Henry  Dispencer  bishop  of  Norwich,  William  de  Ufford  earl  of 
Suffolk,  Roger  Boys  knight,  Robert  de  Teye  knight,  John  de  Rokwode, 
Reynold  de  Eckles,  Robert  de  Berneye,  William  Wynter  of  Bernyngham 
Curzon,  William  de  Bliclyngg  citizen  of  Norwich,  Richard  Dautres 
and  William  March  of  Soterlee,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  during  the  life 
of  Isabel  daughter  of  William  de  Loudham  knight  a  nun  of  St.  Katherine 
Flixton  co.  Suffolk,  16  marks  of  yearly  rent  payable  in  the  said  house 
of  St.  Katherine  Flixton  at  Midsummer,  Michaelmas,  St.  Andrew  and 
Easter  by  even  portions,  to  be  taken  of  their  manor  of  Aston  in  that 
county  which  they  had  jointly  with  John  de  Braham  knight  (now 
deceased)  and  with  the  said  earl,  Robert  de  Teye  and  John  de  Rokwode 
by  gift  and  feoffment  of  her  said  father,  the  said  earl,  Robert  and 


50    EDWARD    ITT.— Part    I. 


355 


1376. 


.!/»  mbrane   8d — cont. 


John  de  Rokwode  having  released  their  righl  therein  to  the  grantors, 
and  Margery  daughter  and  heir  ol  Ralph  de  Sohymplyngford  having 
likewise  made  a  release  to  them  of  the  said  manor  which  was  lately 

of  John  de  Schymplyngford,  power  being  given  to  the  grantees,  their 
heirs,  bailiffs  and  assigns,  to  distrain  for  arrears  thereof;  and  for 
greater  security  the  grantors  have  put  them  in  seisin  by  half  a  mark. 
Dated  Southelmham  co.  Suffolk,  Saturday  after  St.  John  ante  Poriam 
LeUinam  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  May. 

Writing  of  Margery  daughter  and  heir  of  Ralph  de  Shymplyngford, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  John  de  IVyshalo  clerk  and 
Roger  de  Wolferston,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Aston 
co.  Suffolk  late  of  John  de  Shymplyngford.  Dated  Westminster, 
Thursday  after  St.  John  ante  Poriam  Latinam  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  May. 

Writing  of  Richard  Poure,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Poure,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Hugh  Poure  of  Bleohesdon,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Otyndon  co.  Oxford  and  all  the  lands, 
rents  and  services  in  Seukeworth  co.  Berkes  which  were  of  the  said 
Thomas.  Witnesses:  John  Golafre,  Richard  de  Abberbury,  .John  de 
Nowers,  John  de  Rothewell  knights,  Thomas  de  la  Mare.  Thomas  de  la 
Poyle,  Nicholas  Baker  of  Middelton.  Dated  Otvndon,  4  May 
50 'Edward   III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   ll)  May. 


May  8.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon  James  |e  Botiller 
earl  of  Ormond  late  justiciary  of  Ireland  and  Thomas  de  Baddeby 
late  treasurer  of  Ireland  or  either  of  them  to  account  before  the  said 
barons  for  the  issues  of  search  for  mines  of  gold  and  silver  in  Ireland 
arising  since  1  May  last,  thereof  discharging  the  said  earl  and  Thomas  ; 
a-  lately  the  king  appointed  them  to  make  search  as  aforesaid  and  to 
cause  certain  other  things  affecting  such  search  to  he  done,  as  in  his 
letters  contained,  and  on  1  May  last  discharged  them  of  making 
further  search. 

March  29.         Ralph  de  Crumwell    knight  to   the   chapter  of  St.    Mary  Lincoln. 
Westminster.    Recognisance   for    1,000/.,    to    he   levied,    in   default    ol    payment,   of   his 

lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

Memorandum  that  this  recognisance  was  taken  by  Richard  de 
Ravensere  clerk,  by  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus  poUstatem  which 
is  on  the  Hies  for  this  year. 

MBMBR  i.v/:  ',/. 
Writing  of  Walter  de  Stratton,  granting  to  Henry  Despencer  bishop 

of    Norwich,    William   de    I'lford    earl    of   Suffolk.    Roger    Boys   knight, 

Robert  de  Teye  knight,  John  de  Rookwode,  Reynold  de  Bokles,  Roger 
de  Wolferston,  Robert  deAsshfeld,  Robert  de  Berneye,  William  Wynter 
of    Bernyngham  Curszoun,  William  de  Blyolyngg  citizen  of    Norwich, 

Richard     DautrOS    and     William     March    "I    Soterlee      'heir    hein    and 

ligns,  durinL'  the  hfe  ot   Isabel  daughter  of  William  de  Loudham 


356  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


13 7C.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

knight  a  nun  of  St.  Katherine  Flixton  co.  Suffolk,  16  marks  of  yearly 
rent  payable  in  the  said  house  of  Flixton  at  Midsummer,  Miehaelmas, 
St.  Andrew  and  Easter  by  even  portions,  to  be  taken  of  the  said 
Walter's  manor  of  Kirketon  by  Everwarton  and  of  all  his  lands  in  the 
towns  of  Cokcfeld,  Alpheton  and  Shymplyng,  all  late  of  John  de 
Schymphngford,  with  power  to  the  grantees,  their  heirs,  bailiffs  and 
assigns,  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  for  greater  security  he  has  put 
them  in  seisin  thereof  by  half  a  mark.  Dated  Southelmham  co. 
Suffolk,  13  May  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

Writing  of  Roger  de  Wolferston,  granting  to  Henry  Dispencer  bishop 
of  Norwich,  William  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk,  Roger  Boys  knight, 
Robert  de  Teye  knight,  John  de  Rookwode,  Reynold  de  Eckles, 
Robert  de  Asshfeld,  Robert  de  Berneye,  William  Wynter  of  Bernyng- 
ham  Curszoun,  William  de  Bliclyngg  citizen  of  Norwich,  Richard 
Dautres  and  William  March  of  Soterle,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  during 
the  life  of  Isabel  daughter  of  William  de  Loudham  knight  a  nun  of 
St.  Katherine  Flixton,  8  marks  of  yearly  rent  payable  in  the  said  house 
of  Flixton  at  Midsummer,  Michaelmas,  St.  Andrew  and  Easter  by 
even  portions  of  all  the  grantor's  lands  in  the  towns  of  Todenham  and 
Westirfeld  co.  Suffolk  which  he  lately  had  jointly  with  Robert  de 
Preston  of  Gippewich  (now  deceased)  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  the  said 
William  de  Loudham,  and  power  to  the  grantees,  their  heirs,  bailiffs 
and  assigns,  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  for  greater  security  he  has 
put  them  in  seisin  thereof  by  half  a  mark.  Dated  Southelmham 
co.  Suffolk,  13  May  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

Writing  of  Margery  daughter  of  Ralph  de  Shymplyngford,  being 
the  confirmation  for  herself,  her  heirs  and  assigns  and  all  future  tenants 
of  the  manor  of  Aston,  of  a  writing  of  John  de  Py shale  clerk  and 
Roger  de  Wolferston  (text  follows,  see  above  p.  354),  dated  Southelmham, 
Saturday  after  St.  John  ante  Portam  Latinam  50  Edward  III,  granting 
to  Henry  Dispencer  bishop  of  Norwich  and  others  during  the  life  of 
Isabel  daughter  of  William  de  Loudham  knight,  a  nun  of  Flixton, 
16  marks  of  yearly  rent  to  be  taken  of  the  said  manor  (as  above). 
Dated  Southelmham,  13  May  the  same  year. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

May  14.  William  de  Galby  parson  of  Eppeworth  to  John  de   Caumpeden 

Westminster,  prebendary  of   Dunham  upon  Trent.     Recognisance  for  80?.,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Notynghamshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Warin  de  Insula  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Walter 
Aubrey  and  to  his  assigns  during  his  life  a  yearly  rent  of  40  marks 
to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  manor 
of  Hordwelle  co.  Berkes  and  of  a  tenement  called  Fressheton  situate 
in  Wiltsir  ;  and  in  name  of  seisin  the  said  Warin  has  delivered  to  the 
said  Walter  one  noble  of  gold,  granting  to  him  or  his  assigns  power 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    I.  367 


1376.  Membran*    Id — cont. 

to  distrain  for  arrears  during  his  life.     Witn<  Robert  Symeon 

knight,    John    Walden,    William    Baycroft,    John    Worth,    Richard 
Herberd.     Dated  24  May  50  Edward  Ml. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  26  .May. 

Indenture  of  def<  of  the  rent  granted  by  the  foregoing  writing, 

whensoever  Warin  de  Insula  knight,  his  heirs  or  assigns  <>r  Borne  other 
in  their  name,  -hall  pay  to  Walter  Aubrey  or  his  assigns  400  marks, 
when  the  said  writing  shall  be  given  up.  Witnesses  {as  the  last). 
Dated  26  .May  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Walter,  26  May. 

Charter  of  Thomas  Langeporf  of  Bukynghamshire,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Walter  Topclyf,  Edmund  Tettesworth,  and  William 
Qwaplade,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  fourth  part  of  the  manor  of 
Horton    by  Colbroke  co.    Bukyngham  with  the  advowson  of  Borton 

church,  to  present  in  their  turn,  and  with  meadows,  feedings,  pastuj 
fisheries,  rents,  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs.  escheats,  heriots, 
reliefs,  wards,'  marriages,  suits  and  all  other  appurtenances,  which 
fourth  part  descended  to  the  said  Thomas  by  inheritance  after  the 
death  of  Ralph  de  Longetoft  his  uncle.  Witnesses:  William  Afolyns 
knight,  John  Wyot,  Walter  Salle.  William  Osgat,  John  Dravton. 
Dated  Horton.  20  May  51)  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment.  28  May. 

Charter  of  Stephen  Hichecok  of  Bolton  chaplain,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Robert  de  Bolton  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion 
of  ;>  messuage  and  garden  and  one  bovate  of  land  in  Bolton  upon 
Dyrne,  now  held  for  life  by  Juliana  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Hichecok 
with  reversion  to  the  said  Stephen.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Thomas  de  Stanley 
rector  of  Treton,  William  de  Waddesley  rector  of  Southotryngton, 
Robert  de  Mnndesder,  William  Faceby,  Nicholas  Allestre  of  Roderham. 
Dated  London,  the  feast  of  St.  Matthias  1375. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  May  this  year. 

MEMBRANE  <;,/. 

Writing   of    Richard    Travels   clerk    rector   of    Blende  worth,    brother 

of  Thomas  Tra  vers  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warrant]  to  Nicholas 
Brembre  citizen  and  merchant  of  London.  Nicholas  Beryng,  Richard 
Bethewater  chaplain  and  Thomas  Shardelowe,  their  heir-  and  assigns, 

of  the  manor-  oJ    RowhuU  and    Balgheleo  co.  Kent    which  they  had   by 

gifl   and   feoffment   of  his  said   brother.     Witnesses:    John   Philipol 
Thomas  Cornewaleys,  Benrj  Vanner,  John  Nbrffolk,  William    Bovile 
cl<  ik.     Dated  London,  12  .M.\  50  Edward  Ml. 

Writing  of  Richard  Travers  olerk  rectOT  of  Blendeworth,  brother 
of  Thomas  Travers  knighl  being  a  quitclaim  to  Nicholas  Brembre 
and  John  Michel  citizens  of  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
reversion  oi  the  manor  oi  Woxindon  and  60  acres  oi  land  in  Haryngeseye 
co.  Middlesex  now  held  for  life  bj  Maud  who  wet  wife  "t  Simon 
I      ,  bj  reason  oi  her  dower.     Witrn  -  m  and  date  ("^  //"  last). 


368  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137(.i.  Membrane  0>d — cont. 

Writing  of  Richard  Travel's  clerk  rector  of  Blende  worth,  brother  of 
Thomas  Travels  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John 
Philipot  citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  Thomas  Beere  clerk  and 
Nicholas  Glynde,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Northalle 
and  Doune  co.  Middlesex  late  of  Thomas  Fraunceys  and  Alice  his 
wife.  Witnesses  :  John  Aubrey,  Thomas  Cornewaleys,  Henry  Vanner, 
John  Norfolk,  William  Boy  vile  clerk.     Dated  (as  above). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  13  May. 

Writing  of  Giles  de  Sancto  Johanne  knight  lord  of  Plumpton  St.  John 
co.  Northampton,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Olneye 
citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
of  Middelton  Cheinduyt  in  the  said  county.  Witnesses  :  Adam  de 
Bury  mayor  of  London,  John  Aubrey  and  John  Fifhide  then  sheriffs, 
Nicholas  Godeson,  Simon  atte  Gate,  Robert  Plomer.  Dated  London, 
3  May  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  May  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  Barlee  of  Wykes  by  Neuport  co.  Essex,  being  a  bond 
to  John  Basset  of  Great  Chishulle  and  John  son  of  John  Basset  of 
Cristeshale  in  100/.  payable  at  Great  Chishulle  aforesaid  on  the 
feast  of  the  Purification  next.  Dated  Great  Chishulle,  Thursday  the 
feast  of  St.  Philip  and  St.  James  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  15  May. 

May  15.  John  Brakell  parson  of  Burgh  co.  Cantebrigge  to  William  Power 

Westminster,  and  Richard  Gates  clerk.  Recognisance  for  10  marks  payable  by 
instalments  ;  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and 
chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Cambridgeshire. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  40/.  made  by  William 
fitz  Hugh  goldsmith,  John  Molton  '  skynner,'  and  John  Miryman 
'  taillour  '  of  London,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  for  James 
parson  of  St.  Katherine  Colman  London,  that  he  shall  not  do  or 
procure  any  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  Robert  Braunford  '  webster  ' 
and  William  Hilderston  of  London,  or  burning  of  their  houses. 

May  10.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  at  their  peril  to  cause 
Westminster,  proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  city  and  suburbs  of  London  on  the 
king's  behalf  forbidding  any  armourer  of  that  city  or  the  suburb 
hereafter  until  further  order  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  to 
sell  to  any  man  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  any  armour  secretly 
or  openly  to  be  taken  out  of  the  realm  ;  and  order  nevertheless  without 
delay  to  repair  in  person  to  the  houses  and  shops  of  all  and  singular 
such  armourers  and,  if  by  searching  they  shall  therein  find  any  armour 
sold  for  that  purpose,  to  arrest  and  keep  the  same  in  safe  custody 
until  before  them  security  for  which  they  will  answer  shall  be  found 
and  given  that  the  same  shall  not  be  taken  out  of  the  realm  contrary  to 
the  proclamation  under  the  aforesaid  pain.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Fosdera.] 

May  5.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  upon  petition  made  on  behalf 

Westminster,  of  Richard  Johansone  of  Edstanton,  by  mainprise  of  Adam  Fernham  of 

London,  John  Giffard  of  Bedfordshire,  Richard  Bescote  and  John 


50  KDWAKD   III.      Ixi    I 


350 


1376. 


[1375.] 
Dec.  7. 

Westminster. 


1376. 
May  19. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  6<Z — cont. 

me]  of  Salop  to  set  him  free  from  Neugate  gaol  ;  as  the  said  petition 
shews  that  be  is  taken  and  there  imprisoned  to  find  security  at  the 
Buil  of  John  Pontesburj  of  Wemme,  averring  thai  be  threatened  the 
said  John  in  life  and  limbs  :  and  the  said  Adam  and  the  others,  appear- 
ing in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20*.  that 
he  shall  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  barm  to  the  -aid  John. 

William  CouTSOur  of  the  king's  chamber  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and 
convent  of  Enesham,  to  take  for  life  sin  li  maintenance  in  that  house 
as  Richard  Fauconer  in  his  life  time  or  any  other  had  at  the  king's 

command  or  the  command  of  his  forefathers. 

V mated,  because  upon  the  Close  Roll  of  the  40//t  year. 

Richard  de  Carlton  of  Bedfordshire  to  Henry  de  Codyngton  parson 
of  Botelesford.  Recognisance  for  30i.  payable  by  instalments  ;  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Bedfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 


May  15.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Pagrave, 

Westminster.  John  Marchal.  John  Rokel  and  John  Querstede  of  Norffolk  to  stay  the 
execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  sheriffs  to  cause  Thomas 
Scogan  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors 
who.  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the 
sheriffs  would  answer,  would  mainpern  him  that  he  should  do  or 
procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to  William  parson  of  Reyngham,  Giles 
Armourer  and  William  Quelter,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit 
him  to  Xeugate  gaol  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would 
willingly  so  do  ;  as  that  writ  issued  at  the  prayer  of  the  said  parson, 
( ; i les  and  William  Quelter,  averring  that  the  said  Thomas  threatened 
them  in  their  bodies  ;  but  the  said  William  Pagrave  and  the  others, 
appealing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
40 /.  that  he  shall  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the 
complainants. 


May  22. 
Westminster. 


May  14. 
Weetmii 


William  Croyser  knight  to  Alice  Perreres.     Recognisance  for  200/., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Surrey. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition 
that  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Edward  de  Kendale  knight,  if  she  be  sole, 
dial  I  when  of  age  make  to  Alice  Perriers  within  forty  days  when  required 
a  release  of  her  righl  by  reason  of  dower  in  the  manor  of  Bychene  oo. 
Eertford,  or  any  other  tenant  thereof  when  required,  and  shall  be  ready 
to  enroll  such  release  in  chancery,  or  thai  if  she  be  couverU  her  husband 
and  she  Bhall  by  fine  to  be  lev  ied  in  the  king's  court  before  the  jusl  i 
of  the  Common  Bench  make  a  release  of  all  her  right  therein  by  reason 
of  her  said  dower.     Dated  London.  -2:',  May  60  Edward   111.     French. 

Mi  inorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Alice,  26  May. 

Henry  de  Sale  to  Thomas  de  Thelwall  clerk.  Recognisance  for 
13*.  I-/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  land-  and  chattels 
in  Lancashire. 

Defeasance  thereof ,  upon  condition  thai  the  said  Henrj  p>\  to  the 
said  Thom. i-  6*.  &d.  at  the  quinzaine  ol  Trinitj  next. 


360  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


L376.  MEMBRANE  5(7. 

Writing  of  John  Sywardeby  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  William  de  Potton  clerk  and  William  Bateman,  their  heirs  and 
assigns  and  the  assigns  of  their  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Harleton 
and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  of  the  said  John  in  that  town,  and 
gift  with  like  warranty  of  the  advowson  of  Harleton  church.  Witnesses  : 
Roger  Scales.  Hugh  la  Zouche,  John  de  Burgh,  John  Colvillc,  John 
Gernoun,  John  Dengayne  knights,  Roger  Herlaston,  Henry  Englissh, 
John  Sibille,  Thomas  Sew  ale,  William  Castelacre,  John  Flambard. 
Dated  the  Sunday  after  Faster  50  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  May. 

Writing  of  Alice  sometime  wife  of  William  de  Islep,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  John  Holt  and  Alice  his  wife,  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John, 
of  all  lands,  rents,  reversions  and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  in  the 
towns  of  Islep,  Lufwyk,  Aldewyncle,  Grafton  by  Craneford  and 
Wodeford,  as  well  those  which  were  sometime  of  the  said  William 
and  Milicent  de  Islep  as  those  which  the  said  William  and  Milicent  ever 
had  in  the  towns  aforesaid.  Witnesses  :  William  de  Thorp,  William 
de  Bernak  knights,  Robert  de  Isham,  John  Carneh",  William  Thirnyng, 
John  de  Bretton,  Robert  Bray.     Dated  Islep,  28  March  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  WTalmesford,  Monday  in  the  fifth 
week  of  Lent  before  John  Cavendissh,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of 
dedimus  potestatem  which  is  on.  the  files  for  this  year. 

Charter  of  Stephen  Derby,  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  Derby  of  Stanstede 
Mountfichet,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  Philip  Cauele  of  Melreth 
clerk,  John  Gentyng  of  Melreth  and  Sir  Richard  vicar  of  Stortford, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  his  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of 
Stanstede  aforesaid,  Bilchangre,  Farnham  and  Storteford  cos.  Essex 
and  Hertford.  Witnesses  :  John  Bataille,  Walter  Arderne,  Ralph 
Josselene,  Bartholomew  Kere,  Nicholas  atte  Chaunbre,  John  Prentiz, 
Robert  Kere.  Dated  Stortford,  Thursday  the  feast  of  the  Ascension 
50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Stephen  Derby,  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  Derby  of  Stanstede 
Mountfichet,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  appointing  John  Prentys 
of  Storteford  and  Nicholas  Andrew  to  deliver  to  Sir  Philip  Cauele  of 
Melreth  clerk,  John  Gentyng  of  Melreth  and  Sir  Richard  vicar  of 
Stortford  seisin  of  all  the  said  Stephen's  lands  in  Stanstede  Mountfichet, 
Bilchangre,  Farnham  and  Storteford  according  to  his  charter  of  feoff- 
ment.    Dated  (as  the  last). 

Writing  of  Stephen  Derby,  son  and  heir  of  Hugh  Derby  of  Stanstede 
Mounfichet,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  Philip  Cauele  of 
Melreth  clerk,  John  Gentyng  of  Melreth  and  Sir  Richard  vicar  of  Storte- 
ford, their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the 
towns  of  Stanstede  Mountfichet,  Bilchangre,  Farnham  and  Storte- 
ford cos.  Essex  and  Hertford  which  the  said  Stephen  lately  had  by 
inheritance  after  the  decease  of  his  said  father  and  of  John  Derby  his 
brother.  Witnesses  :  John  Bataille  etc.  (as  above).  Dated  Storteford, 
Friday  the  morrow  of  the  Ascension  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writings  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster,  24  May. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Pakt    I. 


361 


137G. 


.I/-  mbrane  5d — cont. 


May  24.         John  Jbustere  of  Midlyngton  to  John  Woderoue  clerk.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  40s\.  to  be  Levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Oxfordshire. 


May  2o.  William   Botreaux  knight   to  Edmund  de   Hyndon.     Recognisance 

-tminster.  for  1601.,  to  be  Levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 

Cancelled  on  'payment,  acknowledged  l>y  William  Methewold  one  of  the 
lid  Edmund's  executors. 

M  iv  27.  John  Holt.  William  de  Burgh,  John  de  Heton  parson  of  Benyfeld, 

tminster.  Thomas  de  Pynchebek  and  Thomas  Sutton  to  Robert  de  Swynburne 
knight  and  Robert  Teye  knight.     Recognisance  for  600/.,  to  be  levied 
etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment    acknowledged  by  Robert  de  Swynburne. 

Charter  of  Robert  de  Swynburne.  Robert  Teye  knights  and  John  de 
Rokewode,  being  a  demise  and  feoffment  to  Alice  wife  of  Ralph  Bassel 
of  Sapeote  knight,  John  Holt.  William  Burgh,  .John  Sharp  parson 
of  Somerby,  John  de  Heton  parson  of  Benyfeld.  Thomas  de  Pynchebek, 
Thomas  de  Merdelev.  Robert  Rede  parson  of  Broughton  Astelev.  John 
Ingham  of  ( forby  and  John  de  ( Jrenhille  parson  of  Staunton  by  Sapeote, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  moiety  of  the  great  park  of  Bytham 
which  the  grantors  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  Gernoun  knight. 
Witnesses  :  Andrew  Luterell,  William  Busshe,  John  Paynell  of  Botheby 
knights  Geoffrey  de  Brunne,  John  Cotom  of  Shotelthorp.  Dated 
Monday  the  feasl  of  St .  Augustine  Apostle  of  tlio  English  50  Edward  HI. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment.  27  May. 

Writing  of  Guy  de  Rouclif  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Lawrence  son 
of  Robert  Hauberk  of  the  manors  of  Stapelford,  Saxeby  and  Berew, 
the  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  with  their  suits  and  all  thai  gi 
with  them,  and  all  other  commodities  and  easements  thereto  belonging. 
Dated  Stapelford,  26  May  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  June. 

May  30.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cornwall.     Order  of  the  king's  favour  by  main- 

Westminster,  prise  of  Peter  Erysy,  Alan  Sennift,  Kenrj  Maynard  and  John  Botriaus 
of  Cornwall  to  stay  the  publication  of  the  exigents  or  of  outlawry 
againsl  John  Trevarthian  and  John  his  son  otherwise  called  John 
Trevarthian  the  younger,  bringing  this  wril  before  the  king;  as  tho 
said  John  and  his  son  have  Bhewn  the  king  that,  being  indicted  for 
certain  felonies  and  trespasses  before  Richard  Sergeauj  and  his  fellows 

guardians  Of  the  peace  and   justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Cornwall, 

they  are  put  in  exigents  in  Cornwall  to  be  outlawed  for  thai  they  came 

not     before  those  justice-    t<»    answer    thereupon,  and    are    Like    to    be 
outlawed    as    they    a\cr.    praying    a    stav    inasmuch    as    the    indictment 

is  at  the  king's  command  sent  before  him  in  chancery,  and  they  are 

(Iv  to  answer  when  and  where  the  king  shall  please,  and  to  si  and  to 

righl  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Peter  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 

ill   chancery,    have    mainperned    body   for    body   and    under   a    pain   of 

lmi/.  to  have  them  before  the  king  in  the  octaves  of  Trinity. 

The  Like  to  the  same  sheriff  in  favour  of  Alan  Sennifi  and  Henry 
Maynard,  by  mainprise  oi  John  Trevarthian,  Peter  Erysy,  John 
Trevarthian  (he  younger  and  John  Bolriau-. 


302 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376. 


MEMBRANE  4d. 


Writing  of  Thomas  de  Moos  knight  lord  of  Hamelak,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Thomas  Hungerford,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manor  of  Heghtredebury  called  Estcourt  and  all  other  the  lands  in 
the  hundred  of  Heghtredebury  which  the  said  Thomas  de  Hungerford 
and  Eleanor  his  wife  (now  deceased)  had  for  life  by  grant  and  demise 
of  the  mother  of  the  said  Thomas  de  Roos  confirmed  by  him,  and 
whereof  Thomas  Hungerford  is  now  seised  by  virtue  of  a  grant  and 
demise  lately  made  by  the  said  Thomas  de  Roos  to  him  and  the  said 
Eleanor.  Witnesses  :  John  de  la  Mare,  Ralph  Cheyne,  Humphrey 
Stafford,  Peter  P]skydemour  knights,  Michael  Skillyng,  Nicholas 
Bonham,  Roger  Stourton.  Dated  Heghtredeburye  Estcourt,  26  May 
50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  May. 

May  27.  Thomas    Hungerford    knight    to    Thomas    de    Roos    of    Hamelak. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  300?.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  Wiltesir. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  29.  Edward  de  Sancto  Johanne  knight  of  Sussex  to  Thomas  Fraunceys 

Westminster,  parson  of  Middlewich,  Henry  de  Coton  parson  of  Aston  upon  Trent 
and  Hugh  son  of  David  de  Malpas.  Recognisance  for  260  marks,  to 
be  levied  etc.  in  Sussex. 

Walter  Romesy  knight  to  John  Bays.  Recognisance  for 
14Z.  13s.  4td.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Somerset. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Trillowe,  being  a  quitclaim  to  William  Walworth, 
Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Adam  Fraunceis,  Simon  de  Mordon,  William 
Haldene,  John  Aubrey,  Nicholas  Brembre,  John  Philipot,  John 
Fifhide,  John  Ussher  and  William  Whetelee  of  4  acres  of  land  in  the 
field  of  Eye  which  he  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  John  Trygg  and 
William  Turk  citizens  and  fishmongers  of  London.  Witnesses  : 
William  Hulle,  Andrew  Tetteworth,  William  Brenge,  William  But, 
Thomas  atte  Rithe.     Dated  Eye,  28  May  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  30  May. 

Writing  of  Guy  de  Rouclyf  clerk,  giving  to  Lawrence  son  of  Robert 
Hauberk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion  of  all  lands  in  Scaldeford 
now  held  for  life  by  Agnes  mother  of  the  said  Lawrence  of  her  said  son's 
heritage  ;  and  covenant  by  the  said  Lawrence  that  the  said  Guy  shall 
not  be  bound  to  warranty  of  the  said  reversion  or  any  parcel  thereof. 
Dated  Stapelford,  26  May  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Guy,  3  June. 

May  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  to  stay  until  further  order  the  taking 

Westminster,  of  the  body  of  John  Dirland"  chaplain  ;  as  he  is  indicted  for  certain 
felonies  before  the  sheriff  in  the  sheriff's  turn  lately  holden  at  Chelmes- 
ford,  and  at  another  time  before  the  king's  bailiffs  of  Great  Waltham 
at  a  view  of  frankpledge  there  lately  holden,  which  indictments  are 
before  the  king  in  chancery,  and  he  is  ready  at  the  king's  command  to 
answer  thereupon  when  and  where  the  king  shall  please,  and  to  stand 
to  right  in  all  things. 

June  5.  Walter    de    Romeseye    knight    to    Michael    de    Ravendale    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  406.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Worcestershire. 


50    KDWAIM)    III.— Part    I. 


363 


1376. 


.i/<  mbrane  -id — cont. 


Note  that  this  recognisance  was  made  in  duplicate  for  the  ohamber- 
lain's  fee  and  for  no  other  cause. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

May  22.         To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order   by   mainprise   ol    Michael 

Westminster.  Skyllyng  and  John  his  son  and  oi  William  de  Norton  of  the  count}  of 
Suthampton  to  stay  altogether  the  further  execution  of  the  king's  late 
writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to  cause  John  Hanewell  chaplain  and  .John 
Mery  to  come  before  him,  and  to  compel  them  to  lind  mainpern 
who.  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them  for  which  the 
sheriff  would  answer,  would  mainpern  the  said  .John  and  John  that 
they  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  prior  of  the 
order  of  friars  preachers  Winchester  or  any  of  that  convent  or  to  their 
houses  by  burning,  and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  commit  them  to  tin- 
nearest  prison  there  to  he  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  would 
willingly  so  do  ;  as  that  writ  issued  at  the  petition  of  the  said  prior 
and  the  brethren,  averring  that  the  said  -John  and  John  threatened 
them  in  life  and  limbs  and  to  burn  their  houses  ;  but  the  said  Michael 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as 
aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  20/. 

Writing  of  Richard  Butiller  the  elder,  being  a  general  release  to 
John  de  Skerton  of  Lancastre  of  all  personal  actions  for  debt,  account, 
covenant,  trespass  and  contract  whatsoever  to  this  date.  Witnesses  : 
John  Buttiller  and  dames  de  l'vkrvng  knights.  Ralph  de  [pre, 
Peter  de  Bolleroun,  Roberl  de  Plesyngton.  Dated  Lancastre,  I  May 
50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Richard  Butiller  the  elder,  being  a  like  release  to  William 
de  Horneby  parson  of  St.  Michael  upon  Wyre.  Witnesses  and  date 
(as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  II  dune. 

June  8.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  !•>  mainprise  of  Thomas  Gentils, 

Westminster.    George  Caserelye.    Peter  de   Mate.    Leonard  de    I'apalasayne.    NegTOnUS 

Corso,  .Julian  Stravena,  John  de  Sene,  Anthony  Sentrego  and  John 
Gatus  of  Genoa  (Janua)  to  set  free  Lumbardus  Corse  one  ol  the 
king's  arbalesters  from  Neugate  prison,  if  detained  for  the  cause 
hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other;   as  lately  the  king  ordered 

the  sheriffs  to  certify  in  chancery  under  their  seals  the  cause  wherefore 
he   was   taken   and   there   imprisoned,   and    they  certified   that    it    i-   DJ 

order  of  Robert  de  Assheton  the  treasurer  by  information  of  John 
Asshewelle  the  king's  Berjeanl  at  arms,  for  that  before  the  treasurer  he 
openly  threatened  the  king's  arbalester  called  Bonseignour  in  life  and 
limbs;  and  the  -aid  Thomas  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  lor  the  prisoner  under  a  pain  ol  IOOj 
to  he  levied  to  the  king's  use  in  case  he  BhaU  do  or  procure  bodily 
hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Bonseignour. 

Mi.  i//;/:  i.v/-;  :{,/. 

M  ,v  20.         To  the  sherilT  ot  Essex.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Roger  de  Gresleye 
,,t    Leycestershire,  Thomas  Cobham   ol    Essex,   William   Sam 
Yorkshire  and  William  Rikylle  oi  London  to  rtay  the  further  execution 


364 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376. 


May  27. 
Westminster, 


May  31. 

Westminster. 


Membrane  3d — cont. 


of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to  cause  Walter  Southous 
to  come  before  him,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under 
a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriff  would 
answer,  would  mainpern  the  said  Walter  that  he  should  do  or  procure 
no  hurt  or  harm  to  Roger  Parker  of  Brendewode,  and  if  he  should 
refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe 
custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  as  that  writ  issued  upon  the 
petition  of  Roger  Parker,  averring  that  the  said  Walter  threatened 
him  in  his  body,  but  the  said  Roger  de  Gresleye  and  the  others,  appear- 
ing in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20Z.  that 
he  shall  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  complainant. 

Roger  Chippes  yeoman  usher  of  the  king's  wardrobe,  at  the  petition 
of  Richard  Vigurous  who  at  the  king's  command  possesses  a  set 
maintenance  for  life  in  the  priory  of  St.  Andrew  Norhampton,  is  sent 
to  the  prior  and  convent  of  that  priory  to  have  that  maintenance  for 
his  life.  By  p.s.  [30995.] 

William  Wakeleyn  to  John  Charleton  and  Thomas  Charleton. 
Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  Middlesex. 


June  3. 

Westminster. 


Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  for  1 ,000Z.  made  in  chancery 
by  Lawrence  Hauberk  to  Guy  de  Rouclif,  Thomas  de  Caterton,  Hugh 
de  Westwyk  and  Hugh  de  Midelton,  upon  condition  that  the  said 
Lawrence  and  the  others  shall  not  be  impleaded  by  the  said  Lawrence 
or  any  other  in  his  name  concerning  their  lands  in  Stapelford,  Saxeby 
and  Berew  and  the  reversion  of  Scaldeford  cos.  Leycestre  and  Roteland 
or  deraigned  of  their  possession  thereof,  or  otherwise  hindered  from 
taking  the  profits  of  the  same.  Dated  London,  6  July  48  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Lawrence  and  Guy, 
3  June  this  year. 

Writing  of  Guy  de  Rouclyf  and  Hugh  de  Westwyk  clerks,  being  a 
general  release  to  Lawrence  son  of  Robert  Hauberk  of  all  actions  for 
debt,  account,  recognisance  or  contract  to  this  date.  Dated  Westmin- 
ster, 30  May  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Guy,  3  June. 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and  the  collectors 
of  customs  and  subsidies  in  that  port.  Order,  for  particular  causes 
laid  before  the  king  in  this  parliament,  not  to  suffer  any  wool,  woolfells 
or  hides  by  virtue  of  any  licence  or  command  of  the  king  made  before 
this  date  to  pass  in  that  port  to  any  foreign  parts  save  to  the  staple 
of  Calais  only,  causing  proclamation  to  be  made  that  no  man  shall  by 
colour  of  any  such  licence  or  command  take  or  carry  wool,  woolfells 
or  hides  to  any  foreign  parts  save  the  said  staple  only  under  pain  of 
forfeiture  thereof.  By  C.  in  pari. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull  and  the  collectors 

there. 
The  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  St.  Botolph  and  the  collectors. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Lenne  and  the  collectors. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    I.  365 


1376.  Membrane  3d~cont. 

The  bailiffs  of  Jernemuth  and  the  collectors. 

The  bailiffs  df  Gippewich  and  the  collectors. 

The  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London  and  the  collectors. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Quenesburgh  and  the  collectors. 

The  mayor  and  bailiff's  of  Sandewieh  and  the  collectors. 

The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Cicestre  and  the  collectors. 

The   mayor   and   bailiffs   of   the    town   of   Suthampton   and   the 

collectors. 
The  mayor  and  sheriff  of  Bristol  and  the  collectors. 
The  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Exeter  and  the  collectors. 
The  bailiffs  of  Meleombe  and  the  collectors. 

Writing;  of  Richard  Grene  knight,  Adam  de  Seint  Ive  and  John 
Frankleyn  citizens  of  London,  being  a  release  to  Robert  de  Clyfton 
of  Lancashire,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manors  of  Clyfton  and 
Salwyk  co.  Lancastre,  and  of  all  the  manors,  lands,  rents  and  sen  i 
in  that  county  which  they  have  by  his  gift  and  feoffment.  Dated 
Clyfton  in  Amondrenes  co.  Lancastre,  20  May  50  Edward  HI.    French. 

Memorandum    of    acknowledgment,    by   the   said    Adam   and   John 
5  June,  by  the  said  Richard  0  June. 

June  6.  Hugh  de  Hastynges  knight  to  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Edward  le 

\\".  -tiniii-OT.  Despenser  and  (biv   de    Bryan  knight.     Recognisance  for  2,000/.,  to 

be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Nbrffolk. 

June  9.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  by  mainprise  of  Hugh  de  Byslee, 
Westminster.  John  atte  fate  of  Gloucestershire,  John  Hermarre  of  Haveryng  atte 
Boure  and  Walter  Fychet  of  Haveryng  atte  Boure  of  Kssex  to  stay 
the  publication  of  the  exigents  against  William  Brodhegh  of  Haveryng 
atte  Boure  ;  as  lately  by  writ  <l<  judido  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs 
to  put  the  -nil  William  in  exigents  from  husting  to  husting  until 
outlawed  if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take 
him  so  as  to  have  his  body   before  the  justices  at   Westminster  in  the 

octaves  of  St.  John  Baptist  next  to  answer  William  Dykeman  citizen 
and  ferron  of  London  concerning  the  alleged  detenue  of  40«.,  and  the 
defendant  has  petitioned  the  k i 1 1 lt  for  a  slay,  as  he  is  ready  to  answer 
the  plaintiff  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  :  and  the  said  Hugh  and 
the  others,   appearing  in   person   in   ehaneel  \  .   ba\e  mainpeined   under 

a  pain  of  l'ii/.  to  have  the  defendant  before  the  said  justices  at  the 
aforesaid  day. 

.June  18.        To  the  mayor  ami  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  proclaim  the  truce 

\\  .  -minister,    la-t    made  at   BmggeS  m    Maudeis  between  the  king  and  his  adversaries 

of  Prance,  on  the  king's  behalf  causing  the  same  fo  lie  observed  and 

kep!  until  1  April  next  according  to  the  form  of  the  >aid  truee  and  the 
extension  thereof  ;    a-  the  same  WOB  to  endure  to  the  last  da\    of  June 

ne\t.  but  l-  prolonged  to  I  April  following. 
|  Foedera.  | 

The  like  to  the  following  \  — 

Hugh  de  Calvelej  captain  of  Calais  or  his  lieutenant  there. 

Kdinuml    earl    of    Cantebli OOnstable    of    DOVOTJ  tie    and 

warden  of  the  Cimpie   I'  ■:    big  lieutenant. 


366  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane.  3d — cont. 

Philip  de  Courteneye  and  William  do  Neville  admirals  of  the 
fleet  to  the  westward  and  northward  respectively,  to  make 
proclamation  in  singular  the  ports  and  places  of  their 
respective  admiralties. 

The  bailiffs  of  la  Pole  and  of  Weymouth. 
[Ibid.] 

June  19.  To  John  Warde  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein. 
Westminster.  Order  to  stay  the  demand  made  upon  a  tenement  called  the  '  Yrenon- 
thehop  '  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary  Magdalene  Oldfisshestrete  London 
sometime  of  John  fitz  Rauf  late  citizen  and  tailor  of  London  for  the 
issues  thereof  to  the  king's  use  until  debate  be  had  in  the  king's  court 
whether  that  tenement  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king  or  to  John  Pounte- 
freyt  and  John  Langetoft  chaplains,  releasing  any  distress  made  for 
that  cause  ;  as  a  plea  concerning  the  same  between  the  king  and  the 
said  chaplains  is  pending  without  debate  before  the  king. 

MEMBRANE  2d. 

Writing  of  John  son  and  heir  of  John  Bakere  of  Wetherisfeld,  being 
a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  de  Neuport,  Isabel  his 
wife,  John  son  of  the  said  Isabel  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the 
said  Isabel  and  John  her  son  of  all  lands  in  the  town  of  Wetherisfeld 
which  were  ever  of  Simon  atte  Hyde,  William  Kyu  or  either  of  them  ; 
and  to  the  said  John  son  of  Isabel,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all' lands 
in  the  towns  of  Hallingbery  Neville  co.  Essex  and  Sabrichesworth  co. 
Hereford  (sic)  which  were  of  the  said  Simon  or  of  William  Kyu  by 
the  said  Simon's  gift.  Witnesses  :  Walter  Elys,  John  his  son, 
John  Winter,  John  his  son,  John  Norton,  Geoffrey  Norton,  Walter 
Claneford,  John  Pake,  John  Smyth  of  Wenden,  Alexander  Gardener, 
William  Andru,  John  Pecock,  Thomas  Cooke,  John  Chirchegate. 
Dated  Wenden,  1  January  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  June  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  Clement  citizen  of  Rochester,  giving  with  warranty 
to  Adam  Fermer  citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  yearly  rent  of  4  marks  to  be  taken  at  Christmas,  Easter,  Midsummer 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  all  the  said  John's  lands  in  Kent, 
with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  he  has  delivered  to  the  said 
Adam  Id.  in  name  of  seisin.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Godet,  Benedict 
Kixs,  Thomas  Dudmere,  Richard  Posier,  Peter  Mareschale.  Dated 
Rochester,  10  June  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  June. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  4  marks  to  be  taken 
of  all  his  lands  in  Kent  granted  by  John  Clement  citizen  of  Rochester 
to  Adam  Fermer  citizen  and  merchant  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
upon  condition  that  the  said  John  or  some  other  in  his  name  shall  eve'ry 
year  at  Christmas,  Easter.  Midsummer  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions  or  within  ten  weeks  after  each  of  those  feasts  pay  a  yearly 
rent  of  135.  4d.  until  he  or  his  attorney  shall  in  his  life  time  deliver 
to  the  said  Adam,  his  heirs  or  assigns  or  to  their  attorney,  seisin  of  a 
tenement  situate  within  the  walls  and  gates  of  the  city  of  Rochester 
opposite  '  Appellane  '  which  came  to  the  said  John  by  inheritance  after 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  I. 


367 


1376. 


June  25. 
Westminster. 

June  26. 

Westminster. 


Jane  27. 
U  •  itminster, 


.1/.  mbrane  2d—cont. 

the  decease  of  Adam  Clemenl  bis  father,  so  thai  the  said  Adam  Former, 
his  heirs  or  assigns,  lose  not  thai  tenement  by  pleas  against  the  heirs 
of  the  aaid  John's  body.     Witnesses  [as  'In  last),     hated  Rochester, 
11  June  50  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  June. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  of  Hugh  Blount  knight  [militia)  of  Essex, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  .John  de  Beverlee  and  Amice  his 
wife  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  John  of  the  manor  of 
Pencrych  co.  Stafford.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Tyrell,  John  Mounteney, 
Robert  de  Teye  knights,  Roger  Langerigge,  .John  Eklward.  Dated 
Westminster,  14  .June  50  Eklward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  1!)  June. 

Writing  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  de  Fakenham  late 
the  king's  Serjeant  at  arms  and  is  his  executrix,  being  a  receipt  and 
acquittance  to  Alice  Perers  for  55/.  due  from  her  to  the  said  Thomas 
in  his  life  time,  and  paid  by  the  hands  of  John  de  Freton  clerk.  Dated 
London,  1  June  50  Edward  111. 

Memoranda m  of  acknowledgment,  1!)  June. 

Writing  of  .Joint  de  Hesill,  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Hesill,  being 
a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  the  uncle 
knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents,  and  services  in  the 
towns  of  Great  Preston  and  Little  Preston  near  Kvpax  co.  York  which 
were  sometime  of  the  said  William  his  father.  Dated  the  city  of  London, 
17  .June  50  Eklward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment.  1!)  June. 

William  Brantyngham  and  William  Charwelton  to  Robert  prior  of 

Bierton.     Joint    and    several    recognisance    for    201.,    to    be    levied,    in 

def.udt  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in   Xorhamptonshire. 

Richard  Bride  of  Westwalton  to  Hugh  de  Gaudeby  clerk.  Recog- 
nisance for  10/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Norffolk. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Roos  knight  lord  of  Hamelake.  being  a  (put- 
claim  with  warranty  to  Thomas  Hungerford,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  Heghtredebury  called  Estcourl  and  ol  all  other  the 
Lands  in  the  hundred  of  Beghtredebury  which  the  said  Thomas 
Hungerford  and  Eleanor  his  wife  now  deceased  had  for  life  by  grant 
and  demise  of  the  mother  of  Thomas  de  Roos  bj  him  confirmed,  and 
whereof  Thomas  Hungerford  is  now  seised  by  virtue  of  a  grant  and 
demise  lately  made  l>\  the  said  Thomas  de  Roos  to  the  said  Thomas 
Hungerford  and  Eleanor.  Witnesses  :  John  de  la  Mare.  Ralph 
Cheyne,  Humphrey  Stafford,  Peter  Eskydemour  knights,  Michael 
Skyllyng,  Nicholas'  Bonham,  Roger  Stourton.  Dated  Heghtredebury 
Estcourt,  I  1  June  50  Eklward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  .June. 

William  de  Glynton  subdean  of  Salisbury  to  John  de  Popelton  parson 
of  Mottesfont.  Recognisance  for  50  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
ot  payment,  of  bis  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in 
\\  Lltesir. 

Cancelled  on  paymt  ni, 


368  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1376.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

Writing  of  John  de  Eepton  (sic)  knight,  being  a  general  release  to 
Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Broun  sometime  citizen  of  London  and  to 
Richard  Broun  her  son  of  all  personal  actions  for  account,  debt, 
covenant,  sale,  waste,  destruction,  trespass  or  contract  to  this  date. 
Dated  London.  Sunday  the  feast  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  29  June. 

MEMBRANE  Id. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  John  de  Welton  of  Lincoln, 
being  a  lease  for  one  year  from  Easter  last,  by  mainprise  of  John  de 
Hudleston  and  Nicholas  de  Cameryngham  of  Lincolnshire,  of  the 
subsidy  in  Lincolnshire,  Roteland,  Notynghamshire  and  Derbyshire 
upon  cloths  for  sale  granted  to  the  king  by  the  lords  and  commons 
of  the  realm,  rendering  to  the  king  24Z.  for  that  year  at  Michaelmas  and 
Easter  by  even  portions  etc.  (as  above,  p.  104),  saving  to  the  king  the 
forfeitures  of  cloth  exposed  for  sale  before  being  sealed  with  the  seal 
appointed  for  the  purpose,  and  also  the  forfeitures  contained  in  the 
statute  made  in  a  parliament  holden  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of 
St.  Edmund  the  Martyr  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  of  cloths  for  sale 
which  are  not  of  the  length  and  breadth  therein  specified,  for  all  which 
forfeitures  the  lessee  shall  answer  at  the  exchequer.  Dated  West- 
minster, 18  June  50  Edward  III.     French.         3y  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Memorandum  that  whereas  William  de  Wyndesore  knight,  late  the 
king's  lieutenant  in  Ireland,  and  certain  other  the  king's  ministers  in 
Ireland,  were  indicted  before  Robert  de  Assheton  and  certain  other 
persons  by  the  king's  commission  appointed  for  certain  extortions  and 
misprisions,  and  whereas  eight  inquisitions  thereupon  taken  in  Ireland 
and  returned  in  England  were  delivered  for  safe  custody  to  the  receipt 
of  the  exchequer,  the  same  were  after  read  before  the  council  at 
Westminster  this  year,  and  were  delivered  to  the  custody  of  John  de 
Freton  clerk,  together  with  a  great  long  roll  containing  many  articles 
concerning  divers  alleged  extortions,  oppressions  and  injuries  likewise 
inflicted  upon  divers  persons  by  the  said  lieutenant  and  others  and 
[brought]  from  Ireland  to  the  king  and  council  in  England  by  Richard 
Deer  and  William  Stapolyn  ;  and  the  said  clerk  after  by  order  of  the 
council  caused  a  copy  to  be  made  of  the  said  inquisitions  and  of  that 
roll,  and  taking  the  copy  delivered  the  inquisitions  and  rolls  aforesaid 
under  the  king's  seal  to  Nicholas  de  Daggeworth  knight,  with  a  com- 
mission of  the  king,  to  be  taken  to  Ireland  and  there  debated  and  duly 
determined  ;  and  after  the  said  clerk  delivered  the  copy  of  the  roll  and 
inquisitions  to  the  custody  of  John  de  Hermesthorp  one  of  the 
chamberlains  of  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury. 

June  21 .         John  Giffard  knight  to  John  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells.     Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  4:01.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Roger  Dore  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey.  Recognisance 
for  200  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Dorset. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    I.  369 


1376.  Mi  mbrane  Id — cant. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey  and 
Roger  Dore,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon 
condition  that  the  said  earl,  his  heirs  and  assigns  and  the  tenants 
thereof  now  and  in  time  to  come  shall  hold  a  messuage,  two  carucates 
of  land,  a  mill  and  50s.  of  rent  in  Esthamptonet  co.  Sussex  without 
recovery  thereof  or  of  any  parcel  thereof  by  the  said  Roger  or  Joan 
his  wife  or  by  their  heirs  by  any  action  arising  before  this  date.  Dated 
London,  22  June  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  2  July. 

July  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.     Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Langrich, 

Westminster.  Thomas  Stokes,  John  Neuport  and  William  Gyffard  to  stay  altogether 
the  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to  cause 
Thomas  de  Leghes  of  Shelley  and  Thomas  Berewyk  to  come  before 
him,  and  to  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be 
by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriff  would  answer, 
would  mainpern  the  said  Thomas  de  Leghes  and  Thomas  Berewyk 
that  they  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  John  Ledet 
and  Margaret  his  wife,  and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  commit  them  to 
the  nearest  gaol,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  would 
willingly  so  do,  and  order  to  set  them  free  if  imprisoned  for  that  cause  ; 
as  that  writ  issued  upon  the  petition  of  the  said  John  Ledet  and 
Margaret,  averring  that  the  said  Thomas  and  Thomas  threatened  them 
in  life  and  limbs  ;  but  the  said  William  and  the  others,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  that  they 
shall  do  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to  the  complainants. 

Writing  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Broun  and  Richard  Broun, 
being  a  general  release  to  John  de  Hopton  knight  of  all  actions 
real  and  personal  to  this  date.  Dated  London,  Midsummer  day 
50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  June. 


• 


(  :no  ) 


50  EDWAED  III-Paut  II. 


137G. 


Membr  i a/-:  25. 


June  20.         Order  to  the  Bheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  b  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  Boweman,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  20.         Order  to  the  Bheriff  of  Norhampton  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
Westminster,  instead  of  Nicholas  Seymour,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

June  28.  To  Edmund  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Herefordshire.  Order  to  keep 
Westminster,  in  the  king's  hand  a  moiety  of  the  manor  and  castle  of  Erdesley  with 
a  third  part  of  the  park,  and  the  lordship  of  Trdesley  and  Bollynghull 
which  are  parcel  of  the  other  moiety  thereof,  but  to  remove  the  king's 
hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  the  lordship  of  Parketon,  Wylardesley, 
Wybbenham,  Breryfeld,  Croukemore  and  Clysse  and  another  third 
part  of  the  said  park,  all  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Richard  de  Baskerville  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  of  those  last 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Richard  at  his  death  held  the  said  moiety  with  a  third 
part  of  Erdesley  park  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Henry  de  Ferariis 
tenant  in  chief,  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  the  lordship  of  Irdesley 
and  Bollynghull  by  knight  service  of  the  heirs  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun 
carl  of  Hereford  tenant  in  chief,  likewise  within  age  and  in  the  king's 
wardship,  and  the  residue  of  the  premises,  being  parcel  of  the  residue 
of  the  said  manor,  by  knight  service  of  Richard  de  la  Bere  knight, 
and  that  Richard  son  of  the  said  Richard  de  Baskerville  is  his  next 
heir,  and  within  age. 

May  30.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Surrey  and  Sussex.     Order  to 

Westminster,  deliver  to  John  son  of  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  the  manors  of 
Chaungeton  and  Bokelond  and  certain  lands  called  la  Cleye  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  b}r  the  said  earl's  death,  but  to  remove  the  king's 
hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  other  the  manors  and  lands  herein- 
after mentioned,  delivering  to  the  said  John  any  issues  of  these  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that 
the  said  earl  at  his  death  held  for  life  the  manor  and  advowson  of 
Codelowe  co.  Sussex,  the  manors  of  Bokelond  and  Colleye,  two 
carucates  of  land  and  61.  of  rent  in  Reygatc,  Estbechesworth,  Horle 
and  Neudegate  co.  Surrey  and  the  advowson  of  Bokelond  church  by 
gift  of  Edward  de  Sancto  Johanne  knight  and  others,  with  remainder 
to  the  said  John  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  and  held  likewise  for 
life  the  manor  of  Chaungeton  co.  Sussex,  and  certain  lands  called 
la  Cleye,  the  manors  of  Westbechesworth  and  Wauton  co.  Surrey 
and  certain  lands  called  Wyklond  by  gift  of  Roger  Lestraunge  and 
others,  with  remainder  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs,  and  that  the 
manor  of  Chaungeton  and  the  lands  called  la  Cleye  are  held  by  knight 
service  of  the  heir  of  John  de  Moubray  tenant  in  chief,  the  manor  of 
Bokelond  of  the  heir  of  Edward  le  Despenser  tenant  in  chief,  both 
within  [age]  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  the  residue  of  the  premises 
of  others  than  the  king  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  said  John's  fealty. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II. 


371 


1376.  Membrane  25 — cont. 

July  6.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Westmorland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  Redeman,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

July  3.  To   John   Rokewode   escheator  in   Suffolk.     Order  to   deliver   the 

Westminster,  manor  of  Wathc,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John 
Gernegan  the  elder,  to  the  next  friend  on  the  mother's  side  of  John 
his  son  to  whom  the  same  may  not  descend,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  John  the  father,  to  be  kept  to  the 
said  son's  use  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  John  Gernegan  the  elder  at  his  death  held  no  lands 
in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  whereby  the  wardship 
of  his  lands  ought  at  present  to  pertain  to  the  king,  but  held  the  said 
manor  in  chief  in  free  socage  by  the  service  of  rendering  45.  a  year 
of  blanch  farm  to  Norwich  castle  for  all  service,  and  that  John  his 
son  aged  12  years  is  his  next  heir. 

July  3.  To  Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.     Order  to  take  of 

Westminster.  Thomasia  who  was  wife  of  Richard  Page  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that 

she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower 

of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  Iris  death, 

sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

MEMBRANE  24. 

June  26.  To  William  Basynges  master  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Mary  Strode. 
Westminster.  Order  for  particular  causes  not  to  meddle  in  receiving  to  the  king's 
use  the  farms,  rents  and  moneys  and  other  profits  arising  of  the  king's 
manors  in  Kent  which  were  late  of  Juliana  countess  of  Huntingdon, 
of  his  manor  of  Gravesende,  the  lands  in  Northflete  late  of  William 
Lenche,  the  manors  of  Ledes,  Risshindon  Daundele  in  the  Isle  of 
Shepey  and  Milton,  the  whole  hundred  of  Milton  and  the  hundred  of 
Merdenne,  or  in  certain  other  things  contained  in  the  king's  late  letters 
patent  appointing  him  so  to  do.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said 
master  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him. 

July  5.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  if  the 

Westminster,  facts  are  as  hereinafter  stated,  and  if  Thomas  Horton  of  Newcastle 
upon  Tyne  has  truly  paid  the  customs,  subsidies  and  other  duties 
for  nine  sacks  of  wool,  not  to  trouble  or  grieve  him  for  taking  woolfells 
to  that  amount.to  other  parts  than  the  staple  of  Calais,  notwithstanding 
that  the  same  were  so  taken  before  the  date  of  the  king's  licence  and 
to  other  parts  than  the  said  staple  ;  as  on  14  October  in  the  47th  year 
of  his  reign  the  king  gave  licence  to  the  said  Thomas  and  certain 
others  of  Newcastle  aforesaid  his  fellows  to  lade  in  that  port  wool 
or  woolfells  to  the  amount  of  eighty  sacks  of  wool  and  take  them 
to  foreign  parts  whither  they  should  please  ;  and  now  the  said  Thomas 
has  petitioned  the  king  for  liis  discharge,  shewing  that  on  20  September 
next  before  that  date,  in  hope  of  the  said  licence,  he  laded  in  that 
port  woolfells  to  the  amount  of  nine  sacks  of  wool,  in  part  of  the  said 
eighty  sacks  in  his  licence  contained,  and  caused  them  to  be  taken  to 
foreign  parts  other  than  the  said  staple,  paying  customs,  subsidies 
and  duties  for  those  nine  sacks  of  woolfells.  By  C.  in  pari. 

June  28.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  John  de  Multon,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


I  \!  I  \i»\i;  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  3 ,  Mi  mbrane  24    coirf. 

May  24.  i     John  de   Rokewode  esoheator  in  Suffolk.    Order  to  take  the, 

f(>nltii  -  of  Gerard  del  Isle  ;hhI  Osberl  Hamelyn  according  to  the  form 
of  i  schedule  enclosed,  in  presence  <>f  the  Baid  Gerard,  Osbert  and 
Hand  wife  of  the  said  Osberl  or  of  their  attorneys,  if  boing  warned 
they  will  attend,  to  make  a  lawful  partition  into  two  parts  of  the 
manor  and  advowson  of    Eintelisham,  and  to  cause  the  said  Gerard 

and    the    said    Osbert    and    Maud    to    have    seisin    of    their    respective 

{uiiparties,  saving  their  reliefs  if  such  be  due  to  the  king  ;  as  the  king 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  at  his  command  by  Richard  do 
Waterden  late  escheator,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with 
his  li<  u  .  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Warin  del  Isle  knight  at  her 
death  held  the  said  manor  and  advowson  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with 
Robert  tit/.  Elys  sometime  her  husband  (likewise  deceased)  by  gift 
of  Geoffrey  Gilbard  to  William  Pypard  knight  and  Margery  his  wife 
(both  deceased)  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  said  Robert  and  Margaret  and  to  the  heirs 
of  their  bodies,  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  William,  that 
the  -aid  William  and  Margery  died  without  issue  male,  and  the  said 
Robert  without  issue  by  the  said  Margaret,  wherefore  the  premises 
ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said 
William,  that  the  same  an;  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering 
one  sparrowhawk  (nisum)  a  year  or  2s.  to  the  king,  and  that  the  said 
Gerard,  being  son  of  the  said  Warm  and  Margaret  one  of  the  daughters 
of  the  said  William  and  of  the  age  of  fifteen  years,  and  the  said  Maud 
wife  of  Osbert,  being  another  daughter  of  the  said  William,  are  his 
cousins  and  next  heirs. 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  below. 


To  Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  Wiltesir.  Order  to  remove  the 
king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Nethercote 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of 
Warin  del  Isle  knight,  to  be  parted  at  their  will  between  Gerard  del 
Isle  and  Osbert  Hamelyn  and  Maud  his  wife,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  Oliver 
de  Harnham  late  escheator,  that  the  said  Margaret  at  her  death  held 
no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the 
said  manor  of  others  than  the  king  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  Robert 
fitz  Elys  sometime  her  husband  (likewise  deceased)  by  gift  of  William 
Pypard  knight  to  the  said  Robert  and  Margaret  and  to  the  heirs  of 
their  bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  issue  to  Stephen  Pypard 
(likewise  deceased)  son  of  the  said  William  for  his  life,  remainder  to 
the  right  heirs  of  the  said  William,  and  that  the  same  ought  by  the 
form  of  the  gift  to  remain  etc.  (as  above). 

Membrane  23. 

July  10.  To  John  Rokewode  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Order  to  take  the  fealty 
Westminster,  of  Warin  del  Isle  knight  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed, 
in  presence  of  Osbert  Hamelyn  and  Maud  his  wife  or  of  their  attorneys, 
if  being  warned  they  will  attend,  to  make  a  partition  into  two  parts 
of  the  manor  and  advowson  of  Hintelesham,  and  to  deliver  to  the  said 
Warin  for  life  his  purparty  thereof  together  with  the  issues 
of  that  purparty  taken  since  the  death  of  Margaret  who  was 
wife    of     the     said     Warin,     sending     such     partition     under    seal 


50  EDWARD  in.— Part  II.  373 


1376.  Membrane  23 — cont. 

to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisi- 
tion, taken  by  the  escheator,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court  with  his  licence  the  said  Margaret  at  her  death  held  the  premises 
in  fee  tail  by  gift  of  Geoffrey  Gilbard  to  William  Pypard  knight  and 
Margery  his  wife  (both  deceased)  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies, 
with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  Robert  fitz  Elys  sometime 
her  husband  and  the  said  Margaret  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies, 
remainder  for  lack  of  issue  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  William, 
that  the  said  William  and  Margery  died  without  issue  male,  and  the 
said  Robert  without  issue  by  the  said  Margaret,  whereby  the  same 
ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said 
William,  that  the  said  manor  and  advowson  are  held  in  chief  by  the 
service  of  rendering  one  sparrowhawk  (nisum)  a  year  or  2s.  to  the  king, 
that  Gerard  del  Isle,  son  of  the  said  Warin  and  of  Margaret  one  of  the 
daughters  of  the  said  William,  and  the  said  Maud  wife  of  Osbert  of 
full  age  another  of  his  daughters  are  his  cousins  and  next  heirs,  and 
that  the  said  Warin  ought  to  hold  for  life  a  moiety  of  the  premises  by 
the  courtesy  of  England  by  reason  of  issue  between  him  and  the  said 
Margaret  begotten. 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  below. 

July  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  the  said  county  (sic)  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be 

Westminster,  elected  instead  of  Ralph  Solers,  who  is  dead. 

July  17.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Master  Paul 
Westminster.  Gabriel  of  Spain,  to  deliver  to  him  without  delay  all  his  goods  by  the 
sheriffs  arrested  which  he  may  without  covin  prove  before  them  to  be 
his,  the  arrest  of  goods  of  the  merchants  of  Florence  by  the  king's 
command  notwithstanding  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  all  his  goods 
in  the  house  of  John  Credy  merchant  of  Florence  of  the  society  of 
Stross'  are  arrested  among  the  goods  of  the  said  merchants  which  the 
king  commanded  the  sheriffs  to  arrest,  as  if  he  were  a  merchant  of 
Florence  which  he  is  not ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  same  be 
no  longer  kept  under  arrest  by  colour  thereof.  By  C. 

July  25.  To  James  Botiller  justiciary  of  Ireland  and  Robert  archbishop  of 
Westminster.  Dublin  chancellor  of  Ireland.  Order  by  writs  under  the  great  seal 
of  Ireland  to  cause  the  men  of  Ireland  last  coming  to  the  council  in 
England  for  the  commons  of  the  counties,  cities  and  boroughs 
of  Ireland  to  have  of  the  said  commons,  namely  every  man  of  the 
commons  of  the  county,  city  or  borough  for  which  he  was  elected, 
their  reasonable  expenses  in  coming  thither,  there  abiding,  and  thence 
returning  to  their  own  again. 

[Fcedera,  with  erroneous  reference  to  m.  24  ;  also  Rep.  on  Dignity  of 
a  Peer,  iv.  p.  669,  and  Prynne,  Parliamentary  Writs,  iv.  p.  308,  both 
with  erroneous  reference  to  m.  23d.] 

July  10.  To  John  Rokewode  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  to  take  the  fealties 

Westminster,  of  Warin  del  Isle  knight  and  Osbert  Hamelyn  according  to  the  form 
of  a  schedule  enclosed,  in  presence  of  the  said  Warin,  Osbert  and 
Maud  wife  of  the  said  Osbert  or  of  their  attorneys,  if  being  warned  they 
will  attend,  to  make  a  partition  into  two  equal  parts  of  the  manor  and 
advowson  of  Hintelisham,  and  to  cause  the  said  Warin  to  have  seisin 
of  his  purparty  for  life  by  the  courtesy  of  England  together  with  the 


I  VLENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Wembrani  '2\i — ront. 

b-iii's  thereof  taken  sinoe  the  death  of  Margaret  who  was  his  wife,  and 
the  said  Oeberl  and  Maud  of  their  purparty,  saving  to  the  king  the 

relief  of  Oeberl   and   Maud  if  any  be  due.  and  Bending  such  partition 

to  be  enrolled  in  ohanoery  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 

taken  at  the  king's  command  by  Kiehard  de  Waterden  lato  eseheator, 
that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  the  said  Margaret 
at  her  death  held  the  Baid  manor  and  advowson  as  jointly  enfeoffed 
with  Robert  lit/.  E3is  (likewise  deceased)  sometime  her  husband  by 
gift  of  Geoffrey  Qilbard  to  William  Pipard  knight  and  Margery  his 
wife  (both  deceased)  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies,  with 
remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  said  Robert  and  Margaret  and 
to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  remainder  for  lack  of  issue  to  the  said 
\\"illiam'>  right  heirs,  that  the  said  William  and  Margery  died  without 
issue  male  and  the  said  Robert  without  issue  by  the  said  Margaret, 
wherefore  the  premises  ought  by  the  form  of  the  gift  to  remain  to  the 
right  heirs  of  the  said  William,  that  the  said  manor  is  held  in  chief 
by  tin  Berviceof  rendering  to  the  king  one  sparrowhawk  (nisum)  a  year 
or  2s.,  that  ( ierard  del  Isle  aged  15,  son  of  the  said  Warin  and  Margaret 
one  of  the  said  William's  daughters,  and  the  said  Maud  wife  of  Osbert 
of  full  age  another  of  his  daughters  are  the  said  William's  cousins 
and  next  heirs,  and  that  the  said  Warin  ought  to  hold  for  life  a  moiety 
of  the  premises  by  the  courtesy  of  England  by  reason  of  issue  between 
him  and  the  said  Margaret  begotten. 

Membrane  22. 

July  5.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Wynchelse.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Henry 

Westminster.  Byrwyn  and  William  Courtenay  burgesses  of  Neuport  in  the  Isle  of 
Wight,  by  mainprise  of  John  Helyer  and  Thomas  Bouer  of  the  county 
of  Suthampton  to  deliver  to  the  petitioners  a  crayer  by  the  said  bailiffs 
arrested  and  the  salt  therein  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that 
they  lately  bought  the  said  crayer  of  certain  men  of 
Plymmuth,  being  laded  with  salt  in  the  port  of  Shamelord 
within  the  liberty  of  Neuport,  that  the  crayer  with  the  salt 
is  without  cause  arrested  at  Wynchelse  by  the  said  bailiffs,  and 
that  they  are  ready  to  answer  the  king  and  all  others  who  will  prosecute 
a  cause  against  them,  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  John  and  Thomas  have  mainperned  in  chancery  that  they  shall 
be  ready  so  to  do. 

July  2.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed 

Westminster,  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  command 
an  inquisition  which  remains  to  be  taken  in  a  cause  before  the  king 
between  the  king  and  Roger  de  Clifford  knight  concerning  the  manor 
of  Anescote  co.  Norhampton  to  be  taken  before  one  of  the  said  justices 
or  before  some  other  of  the  king's  justices. 

June  18.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  Thomas  prior  of  St.  Bartholomew  Smythefeld  London,  if  in  a  plea 
pending  before  them  in  the  husting  of  London  without  the  king's 
writ  between  Adam  Rous  '  leche  '  and  the  said  prior  concerning  the 
unlawful  taking  and  detenue  of  chattels  of  the  said  Adam  proceedings 
have  been  had  and  allegation  made  as  hereinafter  mentioned,  to 
proceed  therein  with  what  speed  they  conveniently  may,  doing  speedy 


50  EDWARD  in.— Part  II.  375 


1376.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

justice  to  the  parties  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  the  said 
city  such  allegation  notwithstanding,  provided  they  proceed  not  to 
rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the  king  ;  as  the  said  petition 
shews  that  the  prior  has  avowed  that  the  taking  of  the  naam 
aforesaid  in  certain  tenements  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mildred  in 
the  Poultry  which  were  of  Robert  Moton,  by  reason  of  a 
certain  rent  therefrom  issuing  which  pertains  to  his  said  church 
and  to  him  and  is  in  arrear,  is  lawful  and  reasonable,  shewing 
also  that  the  plaintiff  in  his  pleading  has  alleged  that  lately  the  king 
by  letters  patent  granted  those  tenements  to  him  for  life,  and  after  by 
other  letters  patent  confirmed  his  estate  therein  to  the  said  Adam 
and  his  heirs  for  ever,  and  that  so  he  ought  not  to  proceed  in  that 
plea  without  advising  the  king,  and  shewing  that  by  reason  of  that 
allegation  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  have  deferred  and  do  yet  defer  to 
proceed  therein. 

July  12.  To  Edmund  the  king's  son  earl  of  Cantebrigge  constable  of  Dovorre 
Westminster,  castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order 
of  the  issues  of  the  said  castle  to  pay  to  John  Begyn  now  parson  of  the 
parish  church  within  the  same  the  arrears  of  9  marks  a  year  for  the 
time  he  has  been  parson  thereof,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that 
sum  every  year  at  Christmas,  Easter,  Midsummer  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions  so  long  as  the  said  earl  shall  be  constable,  taking  the 
said  parson's  acquittance  ;  as  on  12  November  in  the  38th  year  of  his 
reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  Richard  Benet  late  parson 
thereof  and  to  his  successors  9  marks  a  year  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid 
by  the  hands  of  the  constable  for  the  time  being  over  and  above 
6  marks  which  he  took  yearly  of  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  castle. 

July  12.  To  Edmund  Laurence  escheator  in  Lancashire.     Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  moiety  of  the  manor 
of  Ulverston  in  Fourneys  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of 
Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Coupeland,  delivering  up  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
escheator,  that  the  said  Joan  held  that  moiety  for  life,  that  it  is  held 
of  others  than  the  king,  and  that  the  king  has  at  present  no  right  to 
keep  the  same  in  his  hand. 

July  13.  To  Nicholas  Potyn  searcher  in  the  port  of  London  or  his  representa- 
Westminster.  tive  there.  Order  of  the  king's  favour  to  deliver  without  delay  to 
Marcanus  (sic)  Caridany  and  Lawrence  de  Murchua  brethren  of 
Ireland  19  marks  6s.  Sd.  of  the  said  Marianus  and  Lawrence  by  him 
arrested  in  that  port  it  is  said,  provided  they  take  not  the  money 
with  them  to  foreign  parts  save  by  exchange. 

July  10.         To  Gilbert  Aymeri  merchant  of  Lumbardy  in  the  city  of  London. 
Westminster.  Licence  to  make  to  Roger  de  Clune  clerk  a  letter  of  exchange  to  his 
fellows  dwelling  in  foreign  parts  for  151.  there  payable  to  the  said 
Roger's  proctor. 

July  12.         The  like  to  the  said  Gilbert,  for  payment  in  foreign  parts  of  10  marks 
Westminster,  to  John  Beaugrant  chaplain. 

July  19.         To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  deliver  to  Margaret 
Westminster,  de  Burgherssh  a  '  crane  '  situate  upon  the  river  Thames,  ten  cellars 


376 


I   UiENDAR  OF  <'L()SK  ROLLS. 


1  :;7ti.  Membra*  22  -cut. 

and  another  tenement  in  the  Vintrv  ;  as  (in  10  June  last  the  king  by 
wnt  ordered  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  to  take  into  his  hand  and  >afe 
keep  to  the  king's  use  all  lands  and  tenements  of  Richard  Lyouns 
lata  titi/t-n  of  London  in  their  bailiwick,  answering  at  the  exchequer 
for  the  i>vin>  thereof  ;  and  now  by  complaint  made  on  behalf  of  the 
:  M  garei  it  is  shewn  the  kin<^  that  the\  lia\e  taken  the  premises 
into  his  hand  [among]  other  tenements  of  the  said  Richard,  although 
she  demised  the  Bame  to  the  said  Richard  from  year  to  year  and  he 
had  no  other  estate  therein,  wherefore  she  has  prayed  for  remedy  ; 
and  1>\  oertifioato  of  the  sheriffs  sent  into  chancery  at  his  command 
the  bans  has  learned  that  the  said  tenements  and  'crane'  are  of 
the  said  Margaret,  that  she  demised  them  to  the  said  Richard  for  a 
J  arly  farm,  and  that  8/.  85.  Ad.  thereof  are  in  arrear  to  her.  It  is  the 
king's  will  that  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  be  thereof  discharged  toward 
him. 

June  25.  To  the  captain  of  the  town  of  Calais.  Order  to  arrest  and  take 
Westminster.  Peter  de  Stapelton  clerk  wherever  found  within  his  bailiwick  within 
liberties  or  without,  and  when  taken  to  cause  him  forthwith  to  be 
brought  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  to  answer  touching  the 
matters  hereinafter  rehearsed  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of 
England,  bringing  thither  this  writ ;  as  lately  being  informed  that 
the  said  Peter  caused  John  de  Moreton,  Robert  de  Moreton  and  John 
Saundesson  to  be  cited  to  answer  in  an  alien  court  without  the  realm 
touching  their  lay  fee  in  Whitberne,  there  prosecuting  a  plea 
concerning  the  same,  and  doing  and  procuring  to  be  done  many  other 
things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  crown  and  to  the  hurt  of  the 
said  John,  Robert  and  John,  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the  sheriff  of 
Northumberland  by  true  men  of  his  bailiwick  to  give  the  said  Peter 
warning  at  Whitberne  to  be  before  the  said  justices  one  month  after 
Easter  last  to  answer  to  the  king  for  his  contempt  and  to  the  said 
John,  Robert  and  John  concerning  their  damages  according  to  the 
ordinance  and  agreement  in  such  case  made  by  common  counsel  of 
the  realm,  and  for  that  he  came  not  at  the  day  set  the  said  Peter 
was  put  out  of  the  king's  protection,  as  appears  by  the  record  and 
process  thereupon  made,  which  the  king  has  caused  to  come  before 
him  in  chancery  ;  and  now  the  king  has  information  that  he  is 
wandering  to  and  fro  in  divers  counties  of  England  and  elsewhere 
within  the  king's  power,  seeking  to  hide  himself  in  order  that  he  may 
not  be  judged  concerning  the  contempt  and  damages  aforesaid,  and 
it  is  the  king's  will  that  he  escape  not  without  punishment. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Dovorre. 

The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  Sandewich. 

The  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London. 

July  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Middlesex.  Order  to  take  Hugh  Herle  clerk 
Westminster,  wherever  found  within  his  bailiwick,  and  to  cause  him  with  all  possible 
speed  to  come  before  the  king  and  council,  there  to  answer  touching 
certain  alleged  contempts  committed  against  the  king  and  his  court 
and  other  matters  which  shall  then  be  laid  before  him,  and  further 
to  do  as  the  council  shall  direct,  bringing  thither  this  writ.         By  C. 

July  2.  To    the   mayor   and   sheriffs    of   London.     Notification   that,    for 

Westminster,  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  the  king  by  advice 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  377 


1376.  Membrane  22 — cont. 

of  the  council  has  revoked  letters  patent  of  protection  to  last  until 
All  Saints  next,  granted  on  29  June  last  to  William  Norton  '  sadeler,' 
who  was  journeying  over  sea  on  the  king's  service  it  was  said  in  the 
company  of  Hugh  de  Calvyle  captain  of  the  town  of  Calais,  there  to 
abide  for  furnishing  the  said  town,  in  order  that  the  sheriffs  may 
proceed  in  a  plea  pending  before  them  without  the  king's  writ  between 
Robert  Colham  '  armurer '  and  the  said  William  concerning  an  alleged 
trespass,  and  may  further  do  as  by  the  law  and  custom  of  the  said 
city  ought  to  be  done,  the  said  protection  notwithstanding. 

July  1.  To  William  Latymere  late  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  or  his  late 

Westminster,  lieutenant.  Order  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  Edmund  earl  of  Cante- 
brigge  the  king's  son  now  constable  of  the  said  castle  or  to  his 
lieutenant  the  lord  of  Poys  the  king's  prisoner  who  is  in  the  said 
William's  custody,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody.  It  is  the  king's 
will  that  the  said  William  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him,  and 
he  has  commanded  the  said  constable  or  lieutenant  to  receive  the 
said  prisoner.  By  C.  in  pari. 

To  the  king's  son  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  constable  of 
Dovorre  castle,  or  to  his  lieutenant.  Order  to  receive  by  indenture  from 
William  de  Latymere  late  constable  of  the  said  castle  or  his  lieutenant 
the  lord  of  Poys  the  king's  prisoner  who  is  in  their  custody ;  as  the 
king  by  writ  has  commanded  the  said  William  or  his  lieutenant  to 
deliver  the  said  prisoner  to  the  said  earl  or  his  lieutenant  to  be  kept 
in  safe  custody.  By  C.  as  above. 

July  6.  To  Gilbert  Culwen  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  suffer  William 

Westminster,  de  Cusyngton  knight,  who  lately  took  to  wife  Elizabeth  who  was 
wife  of  John  de  Moubray  deceased  tenant  in  chief,  which  Elizabeth 
died  on  the  morrow  of  the  Assumption  last  as  is  found  by  inquisition 
taken  at  the  king's  command  before  the  escheator,  to  demand  and 
levy  without  let  all  sums  and  profits  of  the  demesne  lands  of  all  manors 
and  other  lands  which  were  of  the  said  John's  heritage  and  which  by 
fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  the  said  William  and  Elizabeth  held 
for  her  life,  which  profits  are  in  the  hands  of  tenants  at  will  or  neifs 
of  those  manors  and  lands  and  are  due  or  demanded  for  the  terms 
of  Martinmas  or  St.  Andrew  then  next  for  the  farm  of  corn,  meadow 
or  pasture  growing  upon  such  demesne  lands  the  same  year,  together 
with  the  profits  and  emoluments  of  farms,  mills  and  toll  to  the  said 
manors  and  lands  pertaining  until  the  morrow  aforesaid,  provided 
that  after  that  day  the  king  be  contented  of  the  rent  of  free  tenants 
of  the  same,  if  any  there  be,  at  the  accustomed  terms.  By  C. 

Membrane  21. 

June  12.  To  Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Westminster.  Order  to  cause  William  son  and  heir  of  Katherine  who  was  wife  of 
Giles  de  Estcote  and  a  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  mother's 
lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death  and  by  reason  of  his 
nonage  ;  as  he  proved  his  age  before  Oliver  de  Harnham  late  escheator, 
and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [31001.] 

To  John  atte  Hale  escheator  in  Dorset.  Like  order  ;  as  the  said 
William  proved  his  age  before  the  said  Oliver  in  the  county  of 
Suthampton.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 


I  \i  I  1NDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  376i  hf<  mbrcme  21     eont. 

Philip  tit/  W'.uvn  knight.  Order  to  pay  to  John  Maheu  one 
r.  of  the  grooms  of  the  king's  chamber  20*.  every  yen-  bo  long  a  i 
messuage  and  one  caruoate  of  land  in  Leop  and  Eukesbury  shall  be 
in  tin  said  Philip's  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  John  son  and  heir 
of  Richard  Rous  tenant  in  chief,  taking  his  acquittance  for  every 
paymenl  ;  as  on  1  April  last  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to 
the  said  John  Maheu  for  his  good  service  20s,  to  be  taken  every  year 
of  the  yearly  farm  due  to  the  king  for  the  said  messuage  and  land,  which 
are  in  the  said  Philip's  hand  by  the  king's  commission,  by  the  hands 
of  the  said  Philip  or  of  other  the  farmer  or  guardian  thereof  so  long 
as  the  same  shall  be  in  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause  aforesaid. 
Ki  erat  ]><it<n$. 

June  L'T.  To  Nicholas  de  Somerton  eschcator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Westminster.  Order  to  deliver  the  manor  of  Chalghdon  in  dower  to  William  de 
Uffbrd  earl  of  Suffolk  and  Isabel  his  wife,  who  was  wife  of  John 
Lestrange  of  Blakemere  tenant  in  chief  ;  as  of  his  favour  the  king 
by  letters  patent  has  pardoned  the  said  earl  the  trespass  he  committed 
in  taking  to  wife  without  the  king's  licence  the  said  Isabel  who  was 
the  king's  widow,  and  the  said  Isabel  the  trespass  which  she  committed 
in  so  marrying  him,  and  all  that  pertains  to  the  king  in  that 
behalf,  and  at  their  suit,  willing  that  the  said  earl  and  Isabel  should 
have  her  dower  of  the  lands,  fees  and  advowsons  of  the  said  John 
sometime  her  husband  those  trespasses  notwithstanding,  with  their 
a -sent  and  the  assent  of  Richard  now  earl  of  Arundell  and  other  the 
executors  of  Richard  late  earl  of  Arundell  to  whom  the  king  lately 
committed  the  wardship  of  the  said  John's  lands  until  the  lawful  age  of 
his  heir,  the  king  has  assigned  to  the  said  William  and  Isabel  as  her 
dower  the  manors  of  Chalghdon  co.  Suthampton  and  Cheswarthyn 
co.  Salop,  40  marks  of  rent  to  be  taken  every  year  at  the  Annuncia- 
tion and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  manor  of  Blakemere, 
and  10  marks  of  rent  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  of  the  manor  of 
Dodyngton  co.  Salop.  By  p.s.  [31010.] 

June  27.  To  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  deliver  in  dower 
Westminster,  to  William  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk  and  Isabel  his  wife  the  manor  of 
Cheswarthyn,  40  marks  of  rent  to  be  taken  every  year  (as  above) 
of  the  manor  of  Blakemere,  and  10  marks  of  rent  of  the  manor  of 
Dodyngton  which,  among  other  lands  etc.  of  John  Lestrange  of  Blake- 
mere tenant  in  chief,  whose  wife  the  said  Isabel  was,  the  king  has 
assigned  for  her  dower.  By  p.s.  (the  same  writ). 

July  3.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  stay  their 

Westminster,  demand  made  upon  the  merchants  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  for  wool, 
hides  or  woolfells  by  them  taken  over  sea  between  Michaelmas  in 
the  48th  year  of  the  reign  and  Michaelmas  following,  for  which  they 
truly  paid  customs,  subsidies  and  other  duties  to  the  king's  customers 
in  that  port  to  his  use,  not  troubling  or  grieving  the  said  merchants 
and  customers  for  taking  the  same  over  [although]  they  exceeded 
the  number  granted  in  the  king's  writs,  and  [although]  without  the 
king's  licence  they  were  taken  to  other  ports  [than]  to  the  staple  of 
Calais,  but  charging  the  said  customers  with  the  customs,  subsidies 
and  duties  aforesaid  ;  as  the  king  willing  to  shew  favour  to  the  said 
merchants   has   granted   that   they   and   any   of   them  shall  not   be 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  n. 


379 


1376. 


Membrane  21 — cont. 


impeached  for  any  wool,  hides  or  woolfells  so  taken  over  between 
those  dates  for  which  they  paid  customs  etc.,  though  the  same 
exceeded  the  said  number  and  were  without  the  king's  licence  taken 
elsewhere  than  to  the  said  staple.  By  C.  in  pari. 

July  8.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Adam  Hobeldod,  who  is  abiding  continually  without 
Cambridgeshire,  wherefore  he  has  not  leisure  to  exercise  the  office  of 
coroner  in  that  county. 

May  12.  To  John  Welde  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  in  presence  of  Ingelram 
Westminster,  de  Coucy  earl  of  Bedford  and  Isabel  the  king's  daughter  his  wife, 
to  whom  the  king  has  committed  the  wardship  of  the  lands  of  John 
Talbot  tenant  in  chief  until  the  lawful  age  of  his  heir,  or  in  presence  of 
their  attorneys  if  being  warned  they  will  attend,  to  assign  to  John 
Seyntcler  knight  and  Katherine  his  wife,  who  was  wife  of  the  said 
deceased,  dower  of  his  said  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  ;  as  lately  while  she  was  a  widow 
the  king  gave  the  said  Katherine  licence  to  marry  whom  she  would 
of  the  king's  allegiance. 
The  like  to  the  following  : 

Edmund  Brugge  escheator  in  Herefordshire. 
William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop. 
Richard  Ryal  escheator  in  Worcestershire. 

July  6.  To  the  collectors  in  the  port  of  Lenne  of  the  custom  upon  wool, 

Westminster,  hides  and  woolfells.  Order,  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the 
king  and  council  in  parliament,  to  pay  nought  to  Richard  Lyons  and 
Richard  Fraunceys  merchants  of  the  city  of  London  by  virtue  of  any 
command  of  the  king  to  the  collectors  addressed  concerning  the  taking 
of  any  sums  of  money  in  that  port  which  are  in  arrear,  nor  to  suffer 
aught  to  be  so  paid  to  them  ;  as  lately  the  king  was  by  letters  patent 
bound  to  Master  Paunce  de  Controno  deceased  in  4,177  marks  payable 
at  set  terms,  which  letters  are  by  certain  persons  given  up  in  the  king's 
receipt,  and  on  3  February  in  the  48th  year  of  his  reign  for  giving  up  those 
letters  patent,  in  recompense  for  the  said  sum  whereof  the  king  is 
discharged  toward  the  said  Paunce,  and  for  chevance  of  8,354  marks 
which  at  the  mediation  and  procurement  of  the  said  Richard  and 
Richard  their  proctors  the  king  received  as  a  loan  of  the  persons 
aforesaid,  the  king  by  letters  patent  acknowledged  that  he  was  bound 
to  the  said  Richard  and  Richard  in  12,531  marks  payable  to  them, 
their  executors  or  assigns,  of  the  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  ports 
of  Great  Jernemuth,  Lenne,  St.  Botolph  and  Hull,  to  wit  taking  in 
the  port  of  Lenne  by  indenture  to  be  made  between  the  customers 
there  and  the  said  Richard  and  Richard  or  their  attorneys  all  customs 
and  subsidies  upon  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  thenceforward  passing 
out  of  that  port  until  the  said  Richard  and  Richard  should  be  contented 
of  5,265  marks  6s.  Sd.  of  the  said  sum,  and  the  residue  in  those  other 
ports  ;  and  the  king  by  writ  commanded  the  treasurer  and  the  barons 
of  the  exchequer  to  search  the  account  of  the  collectors  in  the  said 
port  rendered  at  the  exchequer  and  to  certify  under  the  exchequer  seal 
what  is  in  arrear  to  the  said  Richard  and  Richard  of  the  aforesaid  sum, 
and  they  have  certified  accordingly  that  search  being  made  it  is  found 
in  the  account  of  Richard  de  Normanton  and  John  Dockyng  collectors 


I  \I.i:M)\i;  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


[37  Membrom  21    -cotti, 

there  from  is  Deoembei  at  the  end  of  the  47th  year  «>f  the  reign  to 
Michaelmas  following  that  allowance  is  made  them  of  l ,(»;{()/.  12*.  6£d. 
pan!  to  the  said  Richard  and  Riohard  in  pari  of  the  said  sum,  wherefore 
l  ,8792.  14*.  1  hi.  i>  in  arrear. 

MEMBRANE  20. 

July  i!.  T"    Edmund    Broge   esoheator   in   Gloacestershire.    Order  of  the 

wv-timn-tcr  issues  of  the  manor  of  [renacton  to  pay  to  Poncius  son  of  Nioholas 
Poyntz  the  arrears  since  the  death  of  John  Poyntz  knight  tenant  in 
chief  of  100*.  a  year,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year 
for  life,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator  at  the  king's  command,  that  the 
id  John  at  his  death  hold  the  said  manor  by  knight  service  of  Hugh 
carl  of  Stafford,  and  that  long  before  his  death  he  granted  to  the 
said  Poncius  a  yearly  rent  of  100s.  for  life  to  be  thereof  taken,  the 
>aid  Poncius  petitioned  the  king  to  content  him  thereof,  shewing  that 
by  virtue  of  that  gift  he  was  thereof  possessed  from  the  time  of  the 
grant,  namely  from  the  feast  of  the  Purification  in  the  42nd  year  of 
the  reign  until  the  said  John's  death,  and  that  the  same  is  in  arrear 
since  the  said  John's  death  for  that  the  said  manor  is  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  bis  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  [his  heir]  ; 
and  after  by  another  inquisition,  by  the  escheator  likewise  taken  at 
the  king's  command,  it  is  found  that  at  the  time  he  made  the  aforesaid 
grant  the  said  John  was  seised  of  the  said  manor  to  him,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  and  was  of  full  age,  that  the  said  Poncius  peaceably  took  that  rent 
from  the  time  of  the  grant  to  the  said  John's  death,  and  never  made 
a  release  of  his  estate  therein  to  any  person,  and  that  the  said  manor 
is  held  of  the  said  earl  ;  and  the  said  Poncius  has  produced  in  chancery 
the  writing  which  witnesses  the  said  grant,  by  reason  whereof  the 
king's  Serjeants  being  summoned  in  chancery  and  examined  touching 
the  premises  could  say  or  allege  nought  effectual  for  the  king  wherefore 
the  said  Poncius  ought  not  to  take  the  said  rent  for  life,  wherefore  it 
is  determined  that  he  shall  take  the  same  for  life  according  to  the 
said  grant,  and  the  arrears  since  the  said  John's  death. 

July  6.  To  the  warden  of  the  stannaries  in  Devon  for  the  time  being.     Strict 

Westminster,  order  to  desist  altogether  henceforward  from  inflicting  extortions, 
oppressions  and  grievances  as  hereinafter  mentioned  upon  the  people 
of  Devon,  and  to  cause  the  tinners  to  be  reasonably  ruled  and  furnished 
according  to  the  due  meaning  of  the  charter  hereinafter  recited  and 
to  the  king's  will,  declaration  and  intent,  not  troubling  or  grieving 
any  man  or  suffering  any  to  be  troubled  or  grieved  contrary  thereto  ; 
as  to  amend  the  stannaries  in  Devon  and  for  the  peace  and  advantage 
of  his  tinners,  King  Edward  I  by  charter,  confirmed  by  the  king, 
granted  that  all  such  tinners  working  in  the  stannaries  which  were 
his  demesne  should  while  there  working  be  free  and  quit  of  pleas  of 
neifty  and  of  all  pleas  and  plaints  which  concern  the  king's  court, 
that  the  warden  or  his  representative  should  hold  all  pleas  between 
the  tinners,  and  all  pleas  concerning  trespasses,  plaints  and  contracts 
between  the  tinners  and  foreigners  arising  in  places  wherein  they  work, 
and  that  they  might  dig  tin  and  turf  for  smelting  (findend')  tin 
everywhere  in  Devon  upon  the  lands,  moors  and  wastes  of  the  king 
and  of  others  whatsoever  ;  and  now  as  well  the  lords  as  the  commons 
and   poor  men  of   the   county   by   their  petition   presented  in   this 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  381 


1376.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

parliament  for  their  peace  and  for  bettering  their  estate  have  prayed 
the  king  to  declare  all  things  doubtful,  inconsistent  and  dark  in  that 
charter  contained,  shewing  that  the  warden  and  tinners  misunder- 
standing the  same  have  by  colour  thereof  inflicted  great  number  of 
extortions,  oppressions  and  grievances  upon  them  and  other  the 
king's  subjects,  taking  no  heed  to  cease  therefrom  ;  and  desiring  to 
do  away  all  ambiguity  and  grievance,  as  he  is  bound  to  do,  with  the 
assent  and  advice  of  the  prelates,  earls  and  barons  and  of  other 
the  princes  and  nobles  sitting  in  the  present  parliament,  the  king 
wills,  declares  and  decrees,  and  it  is  his  intent  that  certain  words 
above  expressed  be  taken  and  understood  as  follows,  namely  those 
who  work  in  the  stannaries  while  working  therein  shall  be  clearly 
understood  of  workmen  labouring  in  the  stannaries  without  fraud  and 
covin,  and  not  of  other  men  or  men  labouring  elsewhere,  and  in  regard  to 
the  article  that  the  warden  or  his  representative  shall  hold  all  pleas 
between  the  tinners,  and  all  pleas  concerning  trespasses,  plaints  and 
contracts  between  the  tinners  and  foreigners  arising  in  places  where 
they  work  within  the  stannaries,  his  jurisdiction  shall  clearly  extend 
according  to  the  words  of  the  charter  to  places  where  the  said  workmen 
are  at  work  and  not  elsewhere  or  otherwise.  By  C.  in  pari. 

Et  erat  patens. 

The  like  to  the  warden  of  the  stannaries  in  Cornwall  or  to  his 
representative.  By  C.  in  pari. 

Et  erat  patens. 

July  12.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  view  the 

Westminster,  account  of  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of 
Newcastle  upon  Tyne  and,  if  assured  that  Thomas  de  Horton  and 
Robert  de  Raynton  both  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  truly  paid  the  customs, 
subsidies  and  other  duties  for  the  wool,  woolfells  and  hides  hereinafter 
mentioned,  not  to  trouble  them  for  taking  the  same  over  to  foreign 
parts  notwithstanding  that  without  the  king's  licence  they  were 
brought  to  other  parts  than  the  staple  of  Calais  ;  as  on  their  behalf 
the  king  has  learned  that  the  said  Thomas  eleven  days  before 
Michaelmas  in  the  48th  year  of  the  reign  in  that  port  laded  woolfells 
to  the  amount  of  9  sacks  of  wool,  and  the  said  Robert  after  that  feast 
2£  sacks  5  stone  of  wool,  5  dakers  of  hides  and  5  hides,  and  without 
the  king's  licence  caused  them  to  be  taken  to  foreign  parts  other  than 
the  said  staple,  wherefore  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  aid,  shewing 
that  they  are  afraid  of  being  impeached  toward  the  king  for  taking 
over  the  same  although  before  so  doing  they  paid  the  customs  etc. 
thereupon. 

July  10.  To  the  same.     Order,  as  at  another  time  was  commanded,  to  stay 

Westminster,  their  demand  made  upon  Robert  de  Rauynton,  Simon  de  Burgh,  William 
Jonesson,  Thomas  de  Horton,  Stephen  de  Shrop  and  John  Fatt  natives 
and  merchants  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  for  wool,  hides  or  woolfells 
by  them  taken  over  to  foreign  parts  between  19  September  in  the 
47th  year  of  the  reign  and  Michaelmas  in  the  49th  year  for  which 
they  paid  to  the  customers  in  the  port  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne 
customs,  subsidies  and  other  duties,  not  troubling  the  said  merchants 
and  customers  for  taking  them  over  although  the  same  exceeded  the 
number  in  the  king's  writs  granted  to  them  and  were  without  his 
licence  brought  to  other  parts  than  to  the  staple  of  Calais,  but  charging 


I   \l.r\n\K    OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Wembratu  l'ii     cont. 

the  oustomen  with  the  oustoms  etc  bo  paid,  and  certifying  in  ohanoery 

under  the  exchequer  Seal  if  there  be  any  cause  wherefore  they  ought 
not  -.'  to  do  ;  as  willing  t<>  shew  fa\our  to  the  said  merchants,  the 
king  I  tnted  thai  tney  or  any  of  them  shall  not  be  impeached 

for  bo  doing. 

July  li!.  To  all  and  singular  the  sheriffs,  stewards  of  liberties,  mayors,  bailiffs, 
ministt  n  and  lieges  in  1  n  land  w  ithin  liberties  and  without  to  whom  etc. 
Order,  under  the  pain  hereinafter  mentioned,  not  to  trouble  or  grieve 
the  sovereign  and  burgesses  of  the  town  of  Clonmell  in  Ireland  or 
any  of  them  contrary  to  the  Btatute  lately  published  at  Westminster, 
wherein  it  is  contained  (among  other  things)  that  no  man  shall  within 
a  market  town  or  without  by  colour  of  purchase  or  otherwise  cause 
'n  of  any  prelate,  man  of  religion  or  other  clerk  or  layman  to  be 
threshed,  or  such  corn,  victuals  or  other  goods  to  be  taken  contrary 
to  the  will  and  licence  of  the  owner  or  keeper  thereof,  and  that  no 
man  shall  take  horses,  oxen,  carts,  wains,  ships  or  boats  to  make 
carriage  withal  but  by  the  owner's  will,  and  if  taken  by  his  will  shall 
forthwith  content  him  according  to  their  agreement,  and  that  any  man 
who  shall  offend  against  the  premises,  and  shall  be  thereof  convicted, 
shall  be  committed  to  the  king's  prison  and  ransomed  according  to 
the  magnitude  of  his  trespass  as  to  the  king  and  his  court  shall  seem 
good  ;  as  now  on  behalf  of  the  sovereign  and  the  commonalty  of  the 
said  town  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  certain  evildoers,  averring  that 
they  are  purveyors  and  other  ministers  of  nobles  and  others,  have 
heretofore  caused  corn  of  divers  burgesses  of  the  town  to  be  threshed, 
and  the  said  corn  and  other  victuals  there  to  be  taken  against  their 
will,  not  contenting  them  for  the  same  according  to  the  statute, 
wherefore  they  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is  the  king's 
will  that  the  statute  be  kept  unbroken. 
Et  erat  patens. 

July  14.  To  Robert  Waleys  and  Geoffrey  Sterlyng.  Order  not  to  meddle 
Westminster,  in  the  levy,  collection  or  receipt  of  the  customs  upon  goods  and 
merchandise  within  the  metes  and  bounds  limited  in  a  grant  made 
to  George  de  Felbrigge  the  king's  esquire  and  William  Elys  of  Jernemuth 
so  long  as  they  shall  have  those  customs,  saving  to  the  king  any 
forfeitures  ;  as  on  9  August  in  the  45th  year  of  his  reign  for  a  set 
yearly  farm  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  George 
and  William  for  five  years  from  Michaelmas  then  next  all  customs 
due  of  goods  and  merchandise  whatsoever,  wool,  hides  and  woolfells 
excepted,  in  the  port  of  Great  Jernemuth  and  in  other  the  ports 
and  places  from  thence  to  Blakeneye  and  at  Blakeneye  on  the 
one  side  and  to  Tillebury  on  the  other  side,  saving  always 
the  liberties  granted  by  the  king  and  his  forefathers  to  the 
merchants  of  Hanse  in  Almain  ;  and  being  after  unmindful  of  that 
grant,  the  king  has  now  newly  appointed  the  said  Robert  and 
Geoffrey  to  levy,  collect  and  receive  to  his  use  during  pleasure  the 
said  customs  in  the  port  of  Gippewich  and  in  singular  the  places 
from  thence  along  the  sea  coast  to  Great  Jernemuth  on  the  one  side 
and  Colcestre  on  the  other  and  at  those  towns  ;  and  it  is  the  king's 
will  that  his  said  grant  shall  take  effect. 

July  16.         To  Richard  Ryhale  escheator  in  Worcestershire.     Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,   and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of 


50  EDWARD  in.— Part  II.  383 


1376.  Membrane  20 — cont. 

Caldewell,  Cokeseye,  Orleton  and  Tymberhongle,  one  carucate  of 
land  and  60s.  of  rent  in  Upthorp  and  Aldermaston,  bullaries  of  seven 
leads  of  brine  in  Wyche,  60s.  of  rent  in  Overton  by  Stanford  and 
Estham,  two  messuages  and  two  carucates  of  land  in  Purshull, 
Wynterfold,  Sallewarp,  Holte  and  Elmerugge  and  the  manor  of 
Wytteleye,  all  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Dionysia 
Mho  was  wife  of  Hugh  de  Cokesey,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  the  said  Dionysia  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in 
chief  nor  of  any  other  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  the  residue 
of  the  premises  for  life  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  her  said  husband 
(likewise  deceased)  of  others  than  the  king  by  gift  of  Richard  de 
Bromhulle  parson  of  Chaddesley  and  others  to  the  said  Hugh  and 
Dionysia  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Hugh,  and  the  manor  of  Wytteleye 
in  dower,  which  is  likewise  held  of  others  than  the  king,  and  that 
Walter  de  Cokeseye  knight  son  of  the  said  Hugh  is  his  next  heir  and 
of  full  age. 

MEMBRANE    19. 

July  14.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Roger  Pygot 
Westminster,  and  John  Roche,  if  reasonable  proof  may  be  made  before  the  sheriffs, 
and  if  they  shall  be  assured  that  a  bale  of  striped  cloth  found  in  a 
house  in  London  winch  was  of  Richard  Lyons,  and  two  bales  of 
'  cordewane  '  there  found  containing  27  dozen,  are  the  proper  goods 
of  the  said  Roger  and  John  respectively  and  not  of  the  said  Richard, 
to  cause  the  same  to  be  dearrested  and  delivered  to  their  respective 
owners  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  because  they  were  there  found 
the  same  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  sheriffs,  supposing  them 
to  be  of  the  said  Richard,  though  they  are  not  it  is  said,  and  the 
same  are  under  arrest.  By  C. 

Aug.  6.  To  James  Botiller  earl  of  Ormond  justiciary  of  Ireland,  and  to 

Westminster,  the  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland.  Order  to  suffer  all  and 
singular  the  king's  lieges  in  Ireland  without  let  to  bring  from  time  to 
time  all  manner  of  corn,  malt,  fish  and  other  victuals  from  thence 
to  England  at  their  will,  after  payment  of  the  customs,  subsidies  and  other 
duties  thereupon,  any  command  or  ordinance  heretofore  made  to  the 
contrary  notwithstanding,  and  further  to  cause  proclamation  to  be 
made  in  singular  the  cities,  ports  and  other  places  in  Ireland  where 
need  shall  be  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  minister,  officer  or 
other  person  of  whatsoever  estate  to  hinder  or  disturb  the  said 
lieges  so  doing  or  any  of  them,  and  if  there  be  any  cause 
wherefore  they  ought  not  so  to  do,  to  certify  such  cause  in  the  chancery 
of  England  under  their  seals.  By  C. 

Aug.  13.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Great  Jernemuth  and  the  collectors  of  customs 
Westminster,  and  subsidies  in  that  port.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Arnald 
de  Flaredyng  merchant  of  Holand,  to  take  information  touching  the 
matters  hereinafter  rehearsed  and,  if  assured  that  the  same  are  true, 
and  that  the  king  was  at  another  time  contented  of  the  customs, 
subsidies  and  other  duties  for  the  wool  and  woolfells  there  mentioned, 
to  dearrest  without  delay  and  deliver  to  the  said  Arnald  the  ship 
hereinafter  mentioned  with  the  gear  and  other  things  by  them  arrested, 
provided  he  shall    pay  the  duties    upon  the  said  wool  and  woolfells 


:,M  CALENPAK  OF  CLOSK  ROLLS. 


1376,  Membrane  1<>— 0onl. 

doe  at  Calais;    m  he  has  shewn  the  king  that  lately  at  Jernemnth 

he  laded  ■  ship  of  his  with  oertain  wool  and  woolfella  to  bring  it  to 

tlic  staple  of  Calais,  that   on  his  voyage  at   sea  sailing  direct  towards 
Calais  tho  same  was  attacked  bj  B  barge  of  Normandy  and  hy  enemies 

therein,  insomuch  that  another  ship  in  bis  oompany  was  by  those 
enemies  taken  in  hostile  manner,  and  so  his  ship  was  compelled  to  take 

flight  towards  Seland  as  well  to  Bave  his  life  and  the  life  of  his  servants 
ai  to  Bave  the  said  ship,  wool  and  woolfells,  that  in  Seland  he  unladed 
the  ship  and,  as  he  needs  must,  sold  merchandise  therein  for 
sustenance  Of  his  men  and  servants,  that  he  has  now  touched 
at  the  port  of  Jernenuith  with  the  said  ship  so  unladed,  and  that  the 
lid  bailiffs  and  collectors  have  arrested  and  are  detaining  his  ship 
for  that  he  brought  not  the  wool  and  woolfells  aforesaid  to  the  said  staple, 
which  he  might  not  do  as  he  avers.  By  the  great  council. 

Aug.  25.  To  John  atte  Hale  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset.  Order  to 
r.  suffer  the  prior  and  convent  of  Abbotesbury  to  have  the  keeping  of 
that  abbey,  now  void  by  the  death  of  Henry  de  Tolre  the  last  abbot 
and  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  vacancy,  and  of  all  the 
temporalities  thereof  with  all  goods  and  property  thereto  belonging, 
and  the  free  administration  and  disposal  of  the  same,  not  meddling 
therewith  by  reason  of  this  vacancy,  saving  to  the  king  during  the 
vacancy  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  to  the  abbey  belonging  ; 
as  on  22  November  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign  the  king  of  his  favour, 
for  the  relief  of  the  said  abbey  which  is  of  his  foundation  and  depressed 
by  many  adversities  in  these  days,  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the 
abbot  and  convent  for  a  set  farm  to  be  rendered  to  the  king  for  that 
vacancy  that  at  the  next  vacancy  the  prior  and  convent  for  the  time 
being  should  have  the  keeping  of  the  abbey  etc.  (as  above)  as  fully 
as  the  abbot  and  convent  used  to  have  in  any  times  past  when  the 
see  was  filled,  disposing  of  the  same  as  they  should  see  best  to  the 
advantage  of  the  abbey,  and  that  no  escheator  or  other  minister 
of  the  king  should  during  that  vacancy  enter  the  said  abbey  or 
temporalities  to  do  aught  that  concerns  his  office,  saving  to  the  king 
the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  as  aforesaid. 

The  like  to  Nicholas  de  Somerton  escheator  in  Wiltesir. 

Aug.  27.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  Cork  in  Ireland.  Order 
Westminster,  to  cause  John  Droup  citizen  of  Cork,  lately  chosen  by  the  said  mayor 
and  bailiffs  and  the  commonalty  of  Cork  to  come  for  them  at  the 
king's  command  to  the  council  in  England,  to  have  of  the  said 
commonalty  his  reasonable  expenses  in  coming  thither,  there  abiding 
and  thence  returning  to  his  own  again,  by  such  ways  and  means  as 
shall  seem  to  them  best,  distraining  and  compelling  any  found  rebellious 
therein  to  contribute  to  such  expenses,  every  man  according  to  his 
estate  and  means  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said  John  the  king  has  learned 
that,  though  he  was  chosen  and  came  as  aforesaid,  certain  of  the  said 
commonalty  are  gainsaying  to  contribute  to  his  expenses,  although 
he  was  chosen  by  their  common  assent. 

[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  669,  with  erroneous  reference  to 
m.  19d.] 

Aug.  24.         To  Th.  bishop  of  Exeter.     Request  to  admit  and  institute  William 
Pleshey.      de  Aylesham  clerk  to  the  church  of  Lanteglos  in  the  diocese  of  Exeter 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  385 


1376.  Membrane  19 — cont. 

by  virtue  of  the  king's  first  presentation,  notwithstanding  the  king's 
later  presentation  of  John  de  Waltham  his  clerk,  which  he  hereby 
revokes  ;  as  lately  by  letters  patent  the  king  presented  the  said  William 
to  that  church,  being  void  and  in  his  gift  it  was  said,  and  being 
unmindful  thereof  after  by  other  letters  patent  presented  the  said 
John  ;  but  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  first  presentation  shall  take 
effect. 

MEMBRANE  18. 

July  16.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  Master  Robert  de  Wykford  archbishop  of  Dublin  and 
late  constable  of  Bourdeaux,  to  stay  their  demand  upon  him  made 
for  the  revenues  or  profits  of  castles,  towns,  provostries,  bailiwicks 
and  other  like  things  given  by  Edward  prince  of  Wales,  John 
king  of  Castille  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre  late  the  king's 
lieutenant  in  Aquitaine,  or  by  Thomas  de  Felton  seneschal 
of  Aquitaine  over  and  above  that  which  by  his  oath  and  by 
testimony  of  the  controller  of  Bourdeaux  castle  they  shall  be  assured 
that  the  said  archbishop  received  not  (sic),  or  by  like  oath  and  testimony 
of  possessions  occupied  by  the  king's  enemies  which  used  to  be  in  the 
king's  hands,  discharging  him  at  the  exchequer,  notwithstanding  the 
revocation,  by  the  king's  letters  patent  lately  made  with  advice  of  the 
council,  of  all  gifts  in  the  duchy  of  Aquitaine  to  any  person  whatsoever 
not  made  by  the  king  or  by  him  confirmed  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews 
that  by  advice  of  the  council  it  was  ordained  that,  notwithstanding 
the  aforesaid  command  was  in  general  terms,  the  constable  should 
suffer  some  persons  to  use  and  enjoy  without  let  gifts  to  them  made, 
as  he  should  find  needful  at  his  coming  by  advice  of  the  king's  council 
at  Bourdeaux,  for  fear  of  greater  expense  and  to  avoid  divers  perils 
and  hurts  that  might  thereby  arise,  praying  his  discharge  of  the  said 
revenues  and  profits  over  and  above  what  he  so  received,  and  of 
possessions  occupied  as  aforesaid. 

To  the  same.  Order  by  oath  of  Master  Robert  de  Wykford 
archbishop  of  Dublin  and  late  constable  of  Bourdeaux  and  by  testimony 
of  the  controller  of  Bourdeaux  to  allow  the  said  constable  in  his  account 
at  the  exchequer  all  payments  and  liveries  by  him  made  for  artillery 
at  the  command  of  John  king  of  Castille  and  Leon  and  Thomas  de 
Felton  seneschal  of  Gascony,  and  of  the  lord  of  Lesparre  and  Robert 
Rous  late  mayor  of  Bourdeaux  after  the  said  king  of  Castille  took 
passage  towards  England  ;  as  he  made  divers  such  payments  to 
divers  persons,  as  the  king  has  learned. 

July  25.  To  the  same.  Order  to  make  allowance  to  Master  Robert  de 
Westminster.  Wykford  archbishop  of  Dublin  in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  for 
the  bows,  arrows  and  bowstrings  by  him  delivered  to  Thomas  de 
Mebburne  treasurer  of  the  duke  of  Brittany  for  defence  and  rescue 
of  the  castle  of  Brest ;  as  by  good  deliberation  it  was  lately  appointed 
by  William  earl  of  Salisbury,  late  captain  of  the  fleet  that  was  at  sea 
and  the  king's  lieutenant  for  that  service,  and  by  John  de  Neville 
lieutenant  of  the  said  duke,  that  the  said  archbishop,  being  then 
constable  of  Bcurdeaux  and  there  present,  should  of  the  king's  artillery 
in  his  keeping  deliver  for  that  service  to  the  said  Thomas  100  bows, 
200  sheaves  of  arrows  and  200  bowstrings,  as  appears  by  letters  patent 
of  the  said  earl  and  John  produced  and  delivered  in  chancery. 

cb  25 


CALENDAR  0]    CLOSE  ROLLS, 


L376.  ]!'  fnbtonu  18 — eont. 

Jolj    J.  To  Nioholac  de   tadele  and  Elisabeth  bis  wife,  tenants  of  the  castle 

•    r  and   lordship  of   Neuporl    in    Kemoys.    Stint    order  under   pain  of 

forfeiture  to  do  their  Suit  to  (lie  count  \  of    Penbroke  as  they  are  hound 

according  to  the  agieemente  hereinafter  recited,  doing  aoughl  whieh 
I  may  tend]  to  prejudice  or  impair  the  liberties  and  privileges  of  the 
king  therein  contained,  ceasing  altogether  to  do  wrong  to  the  king's 
men  and  tenants  there,  and  bo  behaving  in  the  matter  thai  the  king 
shall  have  no  matter  for  wrath  against  them  as  those  who  impugn  bis 
privileges  and  liberties  ae  on  -r>  November  f  *]  Edward  I  agreement 
was  made  between  William  de  Valencia  earl  of  Penbroke 
and  William  Martyn  lord  of  Kemoys,  whereby  the  said 
William  Martyn  acknowledged  that  he  and  his  heirs  were  bound 
to  do  suit  to  the  county  of  Penbroke  from  county  to  county  for  the 
land  of  Kemoys,  that  the  said  earl  and  Joan  his  wife  and  the  said 
Joan's  heirs  should  have  cognisance  in  all  the  land  of  Kemoys  of 
rape,  arson  in  time  of  peace,  forestall,  treasure  trove,  of  appeals  of 
manslaughter  and  of  other  felonies  without  the  manner  whatsoever, 
also  the  forswearing  of  felons  in  church,  and  the  office  of  coroner 
concerning  manslaughter,  the  bailiffs  of  the  said  William  [Martyn]  and 
his  heirs  being  nevertheless  warned  to  be  present  if  they  would,  saving 
to  William  Martyn  and  his  heirs  and  to  their  bailiffs  there  the  attach- 
ment and  judgment  of  such  felons  found  in  the  land  of  Kemoys  who 
should  be  so  adjudged  before  the  coroners,  unless  there  should  be 
an  appeal  thereupon  without  the  manner,  that  the  said  earl  and  Joan 
and  the  heirs  of  Joan  should  have  cognisance  of  wrongs  and  trespasses 
of  William  Martyn  and  his  heirs  and  of  their  bailiffs  there,  and  pleas 
of  fresh  force  as  well  of  farms  as  of  free  tenants,  the  running  of  all 
manner  of  writs  by  seal  of  the  chancery  of  Penbroke,  the  execution 
thereof,  and  all  things  thereto  pertaining,  that  William  Martyn  should 
have  cognisance  of  all  other  pleas  arising  within  the  precinct  of  all  the 
land  of  Kemoys  which  in  his  court  of  Kemoys  might  be  duly  determined, 
save  for  default  of  William  Martyn,  his  heirs  or  their  bailiffs,  where  they 
should  be  remiss  in  doing  justice  or  should  deny  justice,  and  then  the 
lid  earl  and  Joan  and  the  heirs  of  Joan  should  for  correction  lay  to 
their  hands,  and  that  William  Martyn  and  his  heirs  should  without 
gainsaying  of  the  said  earl  and  Joan  or  of  the  heirs  of  Joan  have  other 
liberties  which  he  and  his  ancestors  used  heretofore  ;  and  now  the  king 
is  informed  that  the  said  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth  have  refused  and 
do  yet  refuse  to  make  suit  as  aforesaid  though  lawfully  due,  have  hindered 
the  king  ana  his  ministers  there  from  exercising  the  liberties  and 
privileges  in  those  agreements  contained,  and  have  committed  and 
cease  not  daily  to  commit  great  number  of  wrongs  against  the  king 
and  his  tenants  there,  in  contempt  of  the  king  and  to  the  prejudice 
and  disherison  of  the  heir,  although  by  the  death  of  John  de  Hastynges 
earl  of  Pembroke  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  John  his  son  and 
heir  the  county  of  Pembroke  is  now  in  the  king's  hand,  whereat  the 
king  is  moved  to  anger. 

July  31.         To  Alan  de  Buxhill  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

w<  -tminster.  lieutenant.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Knolles  knight  and  Richard 

Grenacres  knight  to  set  free  Robert  Grenacres  knight  from  the  prison 

of    the    Tower ;     as    the    said    Robert    Knolles    and    Richard    have 


*  The  year  omitted. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II. 


387 


1376. 


Membrane  18 — cont. 


mainperned  under  a  pain  of  500  marks  or  their  bodies  to  have  his 
body  before  the  king  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas 
next.  By  C.  with  assent  of  John  king  of  Castille. 

July  22.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains.     Order  to  levy  and  deliver  to 

Westminster.  Richard  de  Ravenser  the  king's  clerk,  keeper  of  the  hanaper  of  chancery, 
for  payment  to  Margaret  Mareschall  countess  of  Norffolk  of  100  marks 
which  the  king  has  granted  her,  a  tally  of  100  marks  paid  in  the 
hanaper  by  William  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk  to  have  the  king's  letters 
patent  of  pardon  for  certain  trespasses  by  him  committed  in  aliening 
without  the  king's  licence  the  manors  of  Hollesle  and  Donyngworth 
co.  Suffolk  which  are  held  in  chief.  By  K. 

June  27.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Henry  de 
Westminster.  Selby  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull,  if  assured  that  the  facts  stated  are 
true,  to  cause  that  which  is  due  for  freight  to  the  said  Henry  to  be  made 
of  the  wine  herein  mentioned  or  of  other  goods  and  chattels  of  Richard 
Lyons,  and  to  pay  the  same  to  the  said  Henry  or  to  his  attorney, 
taking  his  acquitttance  :  as  his  petition  shews  that  twelve  tuns  one 
pipe  of  wine  of  the  said  Richard  were  lately  at  Bourdeaux  laded  in  a 
ship  of  the  said  Henry  called  the  '  Christojore  '  of  Hull  to  be  brought 
to  the  city  of  London,  and  that  the  wine  after  it  was  brought  thither 
was  among  other  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said  Richard  seized  by 
the  sheriffs  into  the  king's  hand  at  the  king's  command  by  assent 
and  advice  of  the  lords  and  great  men  of  the  realm  in  this  parliament, 
the  said  Henry  not  being  contented  for  the  freight  thereof.  By  C. 
The  like  to  the  said  sheriffs  in  favour  of  Thomas  Bakere  master  of 
a  ship  called  the  '  Seinte  Marie  cogg  '  of  London,  for  freight  of  fifteen 
tuns  and  one  pipe  of  wine.  By  C. 


July  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.     Order  of  the  king's  favour  to  restore 

Westminster,  to  Henry  Carleton  clerk,  if  he  was  not  a  fugitive,  his  goods  and  chattels 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned,  also 
his  lands  ;  as  the  said  clerk  was  indicted  before  John  de  Cavendissh 
and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king,  for 
the  robbery  of  one  horse  price  40s.  with  one  pack  price  1005.  from 
John  Foulemer  at  Knottyngwode  co.  Middlesex,  and  at  the  request 
of  the  abbot  of  Westminster  the  ordinary  was  after  by  the  said  justices 
delivered  to  him  according  to  the  benefit  of  clergy,  and  there  lawfully 
purged  his  innocence  of  that  charge,  as  the  said  abbot  has  signified 
to  the  king. 

July  10.  To  William  Ilger  escheator  in  Ireland.  Order  to  remove  the  king's 
Westminster,  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  towns  of  Rosse,  Hervyesilond, 
Catherlagh  and  Casterton  in  Fohord  and  the  baronies  of  Hound  and 
Oldecrosse  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  earl  of 
Pembroke,  delivering  to  Anne  late  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  by  the  escheator  taken  at  his 
command  and  returned  in  the  chancery  of  England,  that  the  said 
earl  at  his  death  held  those  towns  and  baronies  Jointly  with  the  said 
Anne  by  gift  of  Margaret  Maresshall  dame  de  Maweny  to  them  made 
with  the  king's  licence,  and  that  the  same  are  held  in  chief  by  knight 
service  ;    and  the  king  has  taken  the  said  Anne's  fealty. 


:<- 


CALENDAR    «)F    <  l.o^F    ItOFhS. 


L376. 
tag.  90. 

W**tmin-trr. 


Membratu   18 — cont. 


To  Edmund  de  Bro  beatoi  in  Gloucestershire  and  the  march 

of  Wales  adjacent.  Order,  if  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  IVtreston 
is  of  Alexander  Soor,  and  i-  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  an 
alienation  thereof  to  him  made  and  for  do  other  cause,  to  remove  the 

king's  band  and  meddle  no  fnrt  her  t  hercu  it  h,  s;i  \  1  tilt  unt  il  furt  her  order 
the  other  moiety  which  was  of  I'-d ward  lc  Despenser,  according  as 
the  said  Edward  and  Alexander  held  that  manor  in  common  ;  as 
lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheatOT  to  certify  in  chancery  the  cause 
when  fore  the  said  Alexander's  manor  of  Petreston  was  by  him  taken 
into  the  king's  hand,  and  he  certified,  that  [he  so  took]  a  moiety  of 
the  said  Alexander's  manor  and  not  the  manor,  for  that  the  said 
Edward,  being  a  tenant  in  chief,  aliened  that  moiety  without  the 
king's  licence  to  John  Dauntesey  and  certain  other  persons,  and  that 
partition  thereof  was  never  made  between  the  said  Edward  or  his 
said  feoffees  and  the  said  Alexander  ;  and  now  by  complaint  of  the 
said  Alexander  the  king  has  learned  that  by  colour  of  the  alienation 
aforesaid  the  other  moiety  to  him  pertaining  is  taken  out  of  his 
possession  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  the  manor  was  undivided, 
and  the  cause  for  so  taking  Ins  moiety  is  manifestly  insufficient  if  there 
be  no  other  reasonable  cause  besides. 


Membrane  17. 

Sept.  9.  To  the  justiciary,  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland  for  the  time 

Westminster,  being,  and  to  other  the  king's  ministers  there  whom  it  concerns,  and 
every  of  them.  Order  to  revoke  without  delay  any  ordinances 
whatsoever  by  them  or  any  of  them  made  contrary  to  the  statute 
concerning  the  staples  of  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  growing  in  Ireland 
and  of  lead  therefrom  arising,  and  the  same  are  hereby  revoked  ; 
and  order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf 
forbidding  the  said  staples  to  be  held  anywhere  in  Ireland  but  at 
Dyvelyn,  Waterford,  Cork  and  Droughda,  and  forbidding  any  man 
of  whatsoever  condition,  under  pain  of  forfeiture  and  the  pain  thereby 
limited,  to  hold  any  staple  elsewhere  that  at  the  places  aforesaid  ; 
as  in  the  statute  it  is  contained  that  the  said  staples  shall  be  for  ever 
held  at  those  places  and  nowhere  else  in  Ireland,  and  now  by  complaint 
of  the  mayors  and  commonalties  of  those  places  the  king  has  learned 
that  contrary  thereto  some  of  the  said  ministers  have  now  newly 
appointed  divers  staples  to  be  held  elsewhere  in  divers  places  other 
than  those  named  in  the  statute,  which  if  it  were  suffered  longer  to 
be  done  would  tend  to  the  king's  prejudice  and  to  the  ruin  of  the 
places  aforesaid. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Aug.  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford,  the  escheator  in  Oxfordshire,  the  mayor 

Westminster,  and  bailiffs  of  Oxford  and  every  of  them.  Order  to  deliver  to  the 
prior  and  convent  of  the  house  of  the  friars  preachers  Oxford  20  feet 
in  width  of  the  river  Thames  to  be  reckoned  from  their  soil  towards 
mid  stream  the  whole  length  of  its  course  where  it  touches  the  soil 
of  their  dwelling  on  the  southward,  causing  such  20  feet  when  delivered 
to  be  marked  in  presence  of  true  men  of  the  town  by  stakes  or  other 
suitable  bounds  whereby  they  may  for  ever  be  known  ;  as  in 
consideration  of  the  damage  done  to  the  said  prior  and  convent  by 
the  river  running  along  the  south  side  of  their  dwelling  at  Oxford, 
and  in  order  that  they  may  the  better  protect  the  same  from  the 


50  EDWARD  III.— Pakt  II. 


389 


1376. 


Membrane  17 — cont. 


wash  of  the  river  in  future,  the  king  so  far  as  in  him  lies  has  given 
to  them  and  their  successors  by  letters  patent  20  feet  in  width  of  the 
river  to  be  reckoned  as  aforesaid  for  the  enlargement  and  protection 
of  their  dwelling.  By  p.s.    [31050.] 

Et  erat  patens. 

Sept.  12.  To  Th.  bishop  of  Durham,  Order  for  particular  causes  to  deliver 
Westminster.  Adam  de  Karale  monk  of  Dounfermelyn  in  Scotland  and  a  certain 
monk  his  fellow  lately  taken  by  Richard  Tempest  and  in  the  said 
bishop's  custody,  to  Henry  de  Percy  and  his  fellows,  wardens  of  the 
marches  of  Scotland,  to  take  order  concerning  them  according  to  the  truce 
lately  made  between  the  king  and  his  cousin  of  Scotland,  notwith- 
standing the  king's  late  command  to  keep  the  said  monks  in  safe 
custody  without  deliverance  of  their  bodies  until  further  order. 

Sept.  6.  To  James  Botiller  earl  of  Ormond,  justiciary  of  Ireland.     Order 

Westminster,  in  presence  and  by  testimony  of  Thomas  Bache  the  king's  clerk  to 
muster  the  king's  retinue  in  Ireland  from  time  to  time,  so  that  the 
said  Thomas  shall  have  knowledge  and  full  information  of  the  number 
and  sufficiency  of  the  king's  men  at  arms,  armed  men,  hobblers, 
archers  and  footmen  in  Ireland  whatsoever,  and  of  those  coming 
and  at  liberty,  and  that  by  his  view  and  testimony  allowance  may 
be  made  for  the  justiciary  and  the  said  retinue  according  to  the 
indenture  made  between  the  king  and  the  justiciary  ;  as  by  letters 
patent  the  king  has  appointed  the  said  Thomas  to  pay  the  said  men 
their  wages,  and  to  be  overseer  of  the  king's  retinues  in  Ireland. 


Sept.  17.         To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland.    Order 
Westminster,  upon   the   petition   of   Henry  de   Ferrariis,   to   search   the   rolls  and 
memoranda  of  that  exchequer  which  concern  the  matter  and,  if  assured 
that  the  king  is  contented  of  the   151.  and  other  sums  hereinafter 
mentioned      and     of     the     issues     of     John    Comyn's     lands,     and 
that    the    said     Henry's    lands    are    in     his   hand    for    the    causes 
rehearsed  and   are  not  nor  ought  to  be  for  any  other,  to  command 
the  same  to  be  restored  to  him  ;   as  by  certificate  of  the  said  treasurer 
and  barons,  sent  to  the  chancery  of  England  at  the  king's  command, 
it  is  found  that  the  lands  of  the  said  Henry  are  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  for  15/.   demanded  of    the  said  Henry  at    the  said  exchequer 
for    the    escape   of  Geoffrey    son  of  John  Cogan,  Raymund  Synan 
and  Thomas  son  of  Philip  Barry  felons  at  the  time  he  was  attorney  of 
William  Morleye  the  king's  marshal  in  Ireland,  for  divers  other  sums 
of  their  chattels  forfeit  to  the  king,  and  for  that  the  said  Henry  ought 
to  render  to  the  king  his  account  for  the  issues  of  all  the  lands  that 
were  of  John  Comyn  in  Kynsalay  co.  Dublin,  which  are  in  the  king's 
hand    for  particular   causes  for  Richard  de  Preston  late  the  lung's 
farmer  of  those  lands  whose  mainpernor  he  is,  the  said  Richard  being 
reckoned  insufficient  to  content    the    king    for  the  same  ;    and  now 
on  behalf  of  the    said    Heniy  it  is  shewn  to  the  king  that  the  said 
treasurer  and  barons  have  deferred    and  do  yet  defer  to   restore   to 
him  his  lands,  although  the  king  is  contented  as  well  of  those  151.  and 
other  the  sums  aforesaid  as  of  the  issues  of  the  lands  of  John  Comyn. 

Sept.  24.         To  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  for  the  time  being.     Order,   while  the 
Westminster,  statute  and  ordinance  concerning  workmen,  servants  and  craftsmen 


I   VLENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1 . 3  ,  '/  mbram    IT  —cont. 

shall  endure,  bj  estreats  ol  the  justices  appointed  for  keeping  <>f  thai 
Btatute  to  their  bailiffs  delivered  ainoe  14  April  in  the  32nd  year  <»f 
the  reign  <>r  hereafter  to  be  delivered  to  Buffer  the  prior  and  brethren 
of  Benton  of  the  Carthusian  order  and  their  successors  without  let 

by  their  said  bailiffs  to  levy,  collect  and  take  all  tines,  ransoms,  issues 
forfeited  and  amercements  which  pertained  or  may  pertain  to  the 
king    for   trespasses,    offences   and    excesses    whatsoever    whereof    their 

tants  and  servants  were  or  in  time  to  come  may  he  impeached  hefore 
the  said  justices  by  those  justices  now  or  hereafter  adjudged  ;  as  on 
that  day  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  all  such  tines  etc.,  to  the 
said  prior  and  convent  and  to  their  successor-.  BO  that  by  their  bailiffs 
they  might  levy  and  take  them  as  aforesaid  without  trouble  or  let 
of  the  king,  his  heirs,  justices,  sheriffs,  coroners,  bailiffs  or  ministers 
whatsoever. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  16. 

Sept.  18.  To  John  atte  Hale  escheator  in  Dorset.  Order  to  cause  Robert  de 
minster.  Turbervylle,  son  and  heir  of  Richard  de  Turbervylle  knight  tenant 
by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford 
tenant  in  chief  lately  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  to  have 
seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  ;  as  the  said  Robert  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator. 

Sept.  28.  To  Jobn  Dymmok  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  land  hereinafter 
mentioned,  delivering  to  the  prior  and  brethren  of  the  house  of  the 
friars  hermits  of  the  order  of  St.  Augustine  Staunford  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to 
certify  in  chancery  the  manner  and  cause  of  his  taking 
into  the  king's  hand  certain  lands  in  Staunford  of  the  said 
prior,  and  he  certified  that  he  so  took  the  same  for  that  in  the 
47th  year  of  the  reign  the  said  prior  and  the  convent  without  the 
king's  licence  purchased  of  the  prior  of  Sempyngham  a  tenement 
and  10  acres  of  land  there  ;  and  on  23  January  in  the  46th  year  of  his 
reign  the  king  of  his  favour,  and  for  40s.  to  him  paid  by  the  prior 
and  convent  of  Sempyngham,  by  letters  patent  gave  them  licence 
in  mortmain  to  give  to  the  prior  and  brethren  of  St.  Augustine  and 
to  their  successors,  to  enlarge  their  manse,  10  acres  of  land  in  Staunford 
thereto  adjoining,  which  land  is  not  held  in  chief  and  is  of  the  yearly 
value  of  6s.  8d.  in  all  issues,  as  was  found  by  inquisition  taken  at  the 
king's  command  before  Thomas  de  Navenby  then  escheator,  and  gave 
licence  to  the  said  prior  and  brethren  to  receive  and  hold  the  same. 

Sept.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  York  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  his 
Westminster,  bailiwick  to  pay  to  William  de  Cutheworth  the  arrears  since  1  April 
in  the  33rd  year  of  the  reign  of  3d.  a  day,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him 
that  daily  sum  every  year  during  his  life,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 
as  on  that  date  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the 
said  William  for  his  good  service  3d.  a  day  to  be  taken  every  year  by 
the  hands  of  the  sheriff  during  his  life  or  until  the  king  should  take 
other  order  for  his  estate. 
Et  erat  patens. 


50    EDWARD    III —Part   II. 


391 


Oct.  20. 

Westminster. 


1376.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

Oct.  20.  To  John  atte  Hale  escheator  in  Dorset.     Order  to  take  of  Edith 

Westminster.  who  was  wife  of  John  Walssh  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will 

not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower  of  her 

said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending 

the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains.  Order,  upon  the  petition 
of  Margaret  who  was  wife  of  Henry  Pypard,  to  pay  her  of  the  treasury 
or  content  her  elsewhere  of  the  arrears  of  a  farm  of  20  marks  a  year 
for  a  '  crane  '  situate  upon  the  river  Thames  and  seven  cellars,  and 
of  18  marks  6s.  Sd.  a  year  for  three  cellars  and  another  tenement  in  the 
Vintry  London  since  the  same  came  to  the  king's  hands,  namely  for 
Midsummer  term  ;  as  her  petition  shews  that  she  lately  demised  all 
the  premises  to  farm  to  Richard  Lyons  citizen  of  London  rendering 
yearly  the  said  sum  at  the  terms  usual  in  the  said  city,  that  the  same 
[are  taken]  into  the  king's  hand  among  other  tenements  [of  the  said 
Richard],  and  that  since  that  time  the  farm  is  in  arrear  ;  and  at  the 
king's  command  the  sheriffs  of  London  have  certified  in  chancery 
that  of  the  first  farm  66s.  8d.  is  now  in  arrear  for  Midsummer  term, 
and  of  the  other  for  the  three  cellars  6/.  15s.  for  Christmas,  Easter 
and  Midsummer  terms  last,  and  for  the  tenement  in  the  Vintry 
33s.  4c?.  for  Easter  and  Midsummer  terms  last,  and  the  king  ordered 
the  sheriffs  of  the  goods  and  chattels  of  the  said  Richard  to  content 
the  said  Margaret  for  the  arrears  to  16  June  last,  on  which  day  the 
premises  were  taken  into  the  king's  hands,  namely  for  Christmas  and 
Easter  terms  aforesaid. 

Membrane  15. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  Robert  Michel  of  Spaldyng  clerk,  lately  elected  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  that  he  has  no  lands  or  tenements  in  that  county 
whereupon  he  may  dwell  according  to  his  estate  for  exercising  the  said 
office. 

Membrane  14. 

Oct.  20.  To  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  ministers  and  lieges  within  liberties 

Westminster,  and  without  to  whom  etc.,  and  to  every  of  them.  Order  to  suffer 
Master  John  Clyfford  treasurer  of  the  church  of  St.  Peter  York 
and  his  men  of  Alne,  Tollerton,  Acton,  Holgate,  Wylton  and  Newe- 
thorp  and  every  of  them  to  use  and  enjoy  all  and  singular  the  liberties 
and  quittances  hereinafter  mentioned,  not  troubling  them  in  aught 
contrary  to  the  charters  of  former  kings  and  the  king's  confirmation  ; 
as  among  other  liberties  and  quittances  so  granted  and  confirmed 
to  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  said  church  and  to  singular  the  canons 
thereof  it  was  granted  that  they  and  their  successors  and  all  their  men 
should  in  city  and  borough,  market  and  fair,  in  passage  of  bridges 
and  seaports  and  in  all  places  throughout  England,  Ireland  and 
Wales  and  all  the  king's  lands  and  waters  be  quit  of  all  toll,  tallage, 
passage,  pedage,  lastage,  stallage,  hidage,  wardage,  of  works  and  aids 
for  castles,  walls,  bridges  and  parks,  sea  walls,  dikes  and  fish  ponds, 
of  ship  service,  building  the  king's  houses  and  all  manner  of  labour,  of 
ward  of  castles,  and  of  all  carrying  and  sumpter  service,  nor  should 
their  wains  or  horses  be  taken  for  carriage,  or  their  woods  for  the 
works  aforesaid  or  for  any  other. 
Bit  erat  patens. 


Oct.  24. 

Westminster. 


ILENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


L376.  Membram    II     cant. 

■n.  Is  I     .ill  and  singular  1 1 » «  sheriffs,  stewards  <»f  liberties,  mayors,  bailiffs, 

ministers  and  other  the  king's  lieges  in  [reland  within  Liberties  and 

without  to  whom  etc.     Order,  upon  the  petition  <>f  the  mayor,  bailiffs 

and  commonalty  of  the  city  oi  U.ii  rford,  under  the  pain  hereinafter 

specified,  not  to  trouble  the  said  mayor,  bailiffs  and  citizens  or  their 

rvants  contrary   to  the  statute  lately   published  at  Westminster, 

wherein  it  is  <  ontained  (among  other  things)  that  no  man  shall  within 

a  market  town  or  without  bj  colour  of  purchase  or  otherwise  cause 

the  corn  of  any  prelate,  person  of  religion  or  other  clerk  or  layman 

to  he  threshed,  or  his  goods  to  be  taken  against    the  will  and  licence 

tlic  owner  or  keeper  thereof,  that  no  man   shall  take  horses,  oxen, 

wains   carts,  ships  or  boats  to  make  carriage  withal  without  the  owner's 

will,  and    if    any    man    shall    take    them  by  the  owner's  will,  he  shall 

forthwith  content  him  according  to  their  agreement,  and  that  any  man 

offending  herein  and  being  thereof  convicted  shall  be  committed  to 

prison  and  shall  be  ransomed  as  shall  seem  good  to  the  king  and  to 

his  court  according  to  the  gravity  of  the  offence  ;    as  now  on  behalf 

of  the  said  mayor  etc.  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  certain  evildoers, 

alleging  that  they  are  purveyors  and  other  ministers  of  lords  and  other 

men,  have  heretofore  caused  the  corn  of  divers  citizens  of  Waterford 

to  be  threshed,  and  such  corn  and  other  victuals  there  to  be  taken 

against  their  will,  not  contenting  the  owners  according  to  the  statute, 

wherefore  they  have  prayed  for  remedy. 

El  crat  palens. 

Membrane  13. 

Oct.  2").  To  the  abbess  and  convent  of  Shaftesbury.     Order,  of  the  rent  for 

tminster.  the  toll  and  for  pleas  and  perquisites  of  court  to  the  king  pertaining 
in  the  town  of  Shaftesbury,  henceforward  to  pay  to  Master  John  Bray 
the  king's  physician  every  year  121.  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by 
even  portions,  taking  his  acquittance  for  every  payment ;  as  on 
12  October  last  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  under 
the  great  seal  to  the  said  John  for  his  good  service  20  marks  a  year 
to  be  taken  at  the  exchequer  during  his  life  or  until  the  king  should 
take  other  order  for  his  estate  ;  and  now  at  the  said  John's  petition, 
and  for  that  he  has  given  up  those  letters  patent  in  chancery  to  be 
cancelled,  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  granted  him  in  recompense 
for  those  20  marks  12/.  a  year  of  the  said  rent  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid 
by  the  hands  of  the  said  abbess  and  convent  for  his  life  or  until  other 
order  be  taken  for  his  estate. 
El  erat  patens. 


Membrane  12. 

Oct.  30.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  with  all  speed  to 

Westminster,  restore  to  two  merchants  of  the  town  of  Tollouse  their  goods  and 
divers  wares  taken  and  detained  by  certain  of  the  king's  subjects 
in  the  city  of  London  if  the  same  exist,  to  whose  hands  soever  they 
have  come,  and  if  they  exist  not  to  cause  the  said  merchants  to  be 
contented  for  the  value  thereof  ;  as  the  king  has  received  the  complaint 
of  those  merchants,  containing  that  they  lately  brought  those  wares 
to  England  to  traffic  and  make  their  advantage  thereof,  but 
that  the  same  are  taken  as  aforesaid  and  are  yet  detained, 
praying  the  king's  aid ;  and  by  advice  of  the  council 
order    is     made     that,     if     restitution     be     made     of     any     goods 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  393 


1376.  Membrane  12 — cont. 

and  merchandise  of  any  the  king's  subjects  taken  during  the  truce 
by  any  of  his  enemies,  like  restitution  shall  be  made  of  enemies'  goods 
taken  by  the  king's  subjects,  and  restitution  has  been  made  of  goods 
and  merchandise  of  some  of  his  subjects  over  sea  lately  taken  by 
certain  of  his  enemies,  as  is  witnessed  by  certain  messengers  of 
John  de  Hurleston  captain  of  Guynes  sent  to  the  king  and  council. 

By  the  great  council. 

Sept.  30.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  the  king's  appointment  to 
Westminster,  admit  Henry  de  Morton,  substitute  for  Geoffrey  de  Neweton  the 
king's  serjeant  his  butler,  to  execute  the  office  of  coroner  in  the  city 
of  London  in  his  stead  when  by  the  said  butler  required,  but  first  to 
take  of  the  said  Henry  an  oath  that  he  shall  behave  truly  in  that  office 
so  long  as  he  shall  be  therein ;  as  for  divers  business  of  the  king 
whereon  he  is  engaged  at  the  king's  command  in  divers  parts  of 
England  the  said  butler,  to  whom  it  pertains,  may  not  have  leisure  to 
execute  the  said  office  in  person.  By  bill  of  the  butler. 

Nov.  16.  To  the  steward  of  the  lordship  of  Haverford  or  to  his  representative 
Westminster,  there.  Order  to  take  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  John  de  la  Roche 
knight  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the 
king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  Richard  Wilteshire,  to  whom  the 
king  has  committed  the  wardship  thereof,  or  of  his  attorney  if  being 
warned  he  will  attend,  to  assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's 
lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment 
under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Membrane  11. 

Oct.  24.  To  the  king's  butler  for  the  time  being,  or  to  his  representative  in 

Westminster,  the  port  of  Bristol.  Order  of  the  king's  right  prise  of  wine  in  that 
port  every  year  henceforward  during  the  life  of  William  Erchebauld 
the  king's  serjeant  his  assewer  to  pay  him  one  tun  of  wine  of  Gascony, 
taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  6  October  last  the  king  of  his  favour 
granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  William  for  his  good  service  one 
tun  of  such  wine  to  be  taken  every  year  during  his  life  by  the  hands 
of  the  king's  butler  or  his  representative  in  the  said  port. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  3.  To  Gilbert  Aymeri  (Almarici)  merchant  of  Luca.     Licence  to  make 

Westminster,  to  his  fellows  dwelling  in  foreign  parts  a  letter  for  payment  there  of 
460Z.  to  the  proctor  or  attorney  of  Ralph  bishop  of  Salisbury. 

Oct.  24.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Simon  son  of  Martin  de  Holbech,  who  is  dead. 

Oct.  24.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Amandus  Mounceaux,  who  is  abiding  continually  in  the 
uttermost  borders  so  that  he  may  not  have  leisure  to  exercise  that  office 
in  Cumberland,  wherefore  the  king  has  removed  him. 

Oct.  24.  To  John   Rokewode   escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  to  remove   the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Wretewell 

and  Sapeston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John  de 

Holbrokc,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;    as  the  king  has 


&|  I   \i  I  \i»\i:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  376i  M>  mbrant    1 1     cont. 

learned  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  at  his  command,  that  the  said 

John  at  his  death  held  those  man.ii>  l>\    the  courtesy  of  England  after 

the  death  of  Maud  his  second  wife  of  her  heritage,  with  reversion  to 

Thomas  her  -on  and  heir  who  is  within  age  and  in  the  wardship  of 
the  abbot  ot  St.  Edmunds,  and  thai  the  .same  are  held  of  the  said 
abbot. 

Nov.  14.  To  the  farmers  or  tenants  for  t he  time  being  of  the  kings  manor 

w.-tmin-UT  of  Bedyngton,  hi*  hundred  of  Bolvngdon,  and  of  his  hundred 
without  the  northward  gate  of  the  town  of  Oxford  with  the  appurten- 
ances in  Oxfordshire.  Order  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  said  manor  and 
hundreds  to  pay  to  John  de  Beverle  the  king's  esquire  and  to  Amice 
his  wife  the  arrears  since  9  April  in  the  49th  year  of  the  reign  of  81/. 
a  year,  and  henceforward  to  pay  them  that  sum  every  year  during 
the  said  John's  life,  and  27/.  a  year  to  the  said  Amice  if  she  shall 
overlive  him,  taking  their  acquittance  ;  as  on  30  January  in  the 
46th  year  of  his  reign,  for  particular  causes  therein  specified,  the 
king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  John  and  Amice  for  life 
or  until  other  order  should  be  taken  for  their  estate  27/.  a  year  to  be 
taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  said  fee 
farm  by  the  hands  of  Richard  Dammory  farmer  of  the  premises  and 
his  heirs  or  other  the  farmers  thereof  ;  and  on  9  April  aforesaid,  after 
the  said  Richard's  death,  by  reason  of  the  said  John's  good  service 
the  king  willing  to  shew  him  more  abundant  favour  granted  him 
by  letters  patent  the  residue  of  the  said  fee  farm  over  and  above  the 
said  211.  yearly,  amounting  in  all  to  81Z.  a  year  it  is  said,  namely  54/. 
over  and  above  the  said  yearly  sum,  to  be  taken  by  the  hands  of  the 
said  farmers  or  tenants  for  the  said  John's  life  or  until  the  king  should 
take  other  order  for  his  estate,  with  reversion  to  the  king  of  the  said 
54/.  a  year  after  his  death,  and  of  the  said  27/.  a  year  after  his  death 
and  the  death  of  the  said  Amice. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  12.  To  the  king's  butler  in  Cornwall  for  the  time  being,  or  to  his 
Westminster,  representative  there.  Order  of  the  king's  wines  in  that  county,  which 
ought  to  pertain  to  him  by  the  death  of  Edward  prince  of  Aquitaine 
and  Wales  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Cestre,  to  deliver  to  William 
de  Spridlyngton  now  bishop  of  St.  Asaph  the  arrears  since  the  said 
prince's  death  of  four  tuns  of  wine  yearly,  and  henceforward  to  deliver 
to  him  so  many  tuns  every  year,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  by  his 
letters  patent,  confirmed  after  by  letters  patent  of  the  king,  bearing 
date  6  July  in  the  43rd  year  of  his  reign,  the  said  prince  gave  to  the 
said  bishop  for  his  good  service,  being  then  auditor  of  the  accounts  of 
the  said  prince's  ministers,  four  tuns  of  wine  a  year  for  life  to  be  taken 
of  the  prince's  wines  of  the  prise  of  Cornwall  without  any  payment 
for  the  same. 
Et  erat  patent. 

Dec.  15.  To  John  Hethe  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order  to  remove 
Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of 
Estbradenham  co.  Norffolk  and  Huntyngfeld  co.  Suffolk  and  the 
advowsons  of  the  churches  of  Huntyngfeld  and  Cokeleye  and  of  the 
priory  of  Mendham  co.  Suffolk,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  William  do  Huntyngfeld  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  395 


1376.  Membrane  11 — cont. 

taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by  divers  inquisitions,  taken  by  John  de 
Rokewode  late  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no 
lands  in  those  counties  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  nor  in  service, 
but  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  held  the  manors  and 
advowsons  aforesaid  for  life  with  remainder  to  William  de  Ufford 
earl  of  Suffolk,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

To  William  Bussy  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order,  mutatis 
mutandis,  in  regard  to  the  manor  of  Pynchebek  called  '  Russell  maner  ' 
and  40  acres  of  land  and  20s.  of  rent  in  Pynchebek,  upon  the  finding 
of  an  inquisition  taken  by  John  Dymmok  late  escheator. 

To  Thomas  Bataille  escheator  in  Essex.  Like  order,  mutatis 
mutandis,  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition  taken  by  John  atte 
Welde  late  escheator,  concerning  the  manor  of  Mokelyngton. 

To  John  Hethe  escheator  in  Suffolk.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis, 
concerning  the  manors  of  Mendham  and  Bengges  and  the  advowson 
of  Petristre,  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,  taken  (as  above),  that 
by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  the  said  William  held  the  premises  for 
life  with  remainder  to  John  de  Stykeford  clerk,  John  de  Lynstede 
clerk,  Richard  Fraunceys  of  Tathewell,  John  Bate  of  Kirketon  and 
Thomas  son  of  Robert  de  Toft,  all  yet  living,  and  to  the  heirs  of  the 
said  John  Bate. 

To  William  Bussy  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order,  mutatis 
mutandis,  concerning  the  manor  of  Hiptofthalle  in  the  town  of  Toft 
and  36  acres  of  land  and  4  acres  of  meadow  in  Toft  and  Freston,  held 
by  the  said  William  for  life  with  remainder  to  John  de  Lynstede  clerk, 
yet  living. 

To  William  Bussy,  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order,  mutatis 
mutandis,  concerning  the  manors  of  Toft,  Frampton  and  Biker  and 
the  advowson  of  Frampton,  held  by  the  said  William  for  life  with 
remainder  to  Margery  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Huntyngfeld  his  son, 
yet  living,  whom  Stephen  le  Scrope  knight  has  taken  to  wife. 

Dec.  7.  To  Hugh  earl  of  Stafford.     Writ  de  intendendo,  directing  him  to  pay 

Westminster,  to  John  de  Beverle  the  king's  esquire  during  the  term  hereinafter 
mentioned  a  yearly  farm  of  441.,  lib.  pepper  and  lib.  cumin  which  the 
said  earl  is  bound  to  render  to  the  king,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as 
lately  by  letters  patent  the  king  committed  to  the  said  earl  the 
wardship  of  the  manors  of  Teynton  and  Bykenore  co.  Gloucester 
extended  at  101.  a  year,  of  the  manors  of  Hampstede  Ferrers  and 
Aldeworth  co.  Berkes,  late  of  John  Ferrers  knight  tenant  in  chief 
and  in  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of 
Reynold  de  Cobham  knight  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Robert 
de  Ferrers  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John  de  Ferrers  knight,  being  likewise 
extended  at  10/.  a  year,  and  of  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of  Breydeshale  co. 
Derby  extended  at  14/.,  1/6.  pepper  and  1/6.  cumin  a  year,  lately  held  for 
life  by  Eleanor  who  was  wife  of  Hostelettus  Tresynges  by  gift  of  the 
said  John  [de  Ferrers]  with  reversion  to  the  said  Robert,  to  hold  all 
the  premises  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of  the  said 
Elizabeth    and    Eleanor   until    the   lawful    age   of   the   said    Robert, 


SM  "  \i.i\h\i;    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


137(3.  !/'  mhrnin     11 — cant. 

rendering  at  the  exchequers  "i  Michaelmas  and  Master  by  even  portions 
141.,  l/'».  pepper  and  \lf>.  oomirj  a  year,  namely  342.,  lib.  pepper  and 
\V>.  oamin  whereat  the  premises  are  extended  and  10/.  of  inorease  ; 
and  on  16  September  last  the  king  of  his  Favour  granted  by  letters 
patent  to  hi-  -aid  esquire  the  wardship  of  all  the  lands  of  John  de 
1  ■"-  rrariifl  knight  tenant  in  chief  which  are  in  his  hand  by  the  death  as 
well  of  the  -aid  knight  a-  of  the  said  Elizabeth,  tenant  for  life  of  certain 
lands  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  the  said  knight  sometime  her  husband, 
and  of  the  said  Eleanor  tenant  for  life  of  certain  lands  by  his  gift, 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  said  son  and  heir,  to  hold  until 
the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king, 
;\ing  to  the  farmers  of  such  lands  the  terms  during  which  they  took 
the  same  to  farm,  upon  payment  from  time  to  time  to  the  said  esquire, 
so  long  as  he  should  have  that  wardship,  of  the  farms  which  they  are 
bound  yearly  to  render  to  the  king  for  the  same. 
El  erat  patens. 

Membrane    10. 

Nov.  14.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  king's  manor  of  Ledes  for  the  [time] 
Westminster,  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay  to  John  de  Beverle 
the  arrears  since  8  August  in  the  39th  year  of  the  reign  of  100s.  a  year, 
and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that  yearly  sum,  taking  his  acquittance  ; 
as  on  that  date  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  him  for  life  the 
office  of  constable  of  Ledes  castle  and  all  things  belonging  to  the 
keeping  thereof,  taking  for  his  fee  100s.  a  year  of  the  said  issues  at  Easter 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  by  the  hands  of  the  keepers  or 
farmers  of  the  manor,  with  reversion  after  his  death  to  the  king  and 
his  heirs. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  12.  To  John  de  Bekyngham  escheator  in  Notynghamshire.  Order  to 
Westminster,  take  the  fealty  of  Roland  son  of  John  de  Sutton  of  Averham  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  to  deliver  to  him  a  third  part  of 
the  manor  of  Averham  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  said  father's 
death  and  by  reason  of  his  own  nonage  and  for  the  reasons  hereinafter 
rehearsed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further 
with  certain  other  lands  hereinafter  mentioned,  delivering  up  any 
issues  of  these  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken 
by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  John  de  Sutton,  who  died  on  Wednesday 
before  Michaelmas  in  the  44th  year  of  the  reign,  died  seised  of  the 
said  third  part,  which  was  held  by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  John 
Longvilers  then  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship  as  of  his  manor  of  Tuxford 
which  is  held  in  chief,  that  he  also  held  at  his  death  a  messuage  and  10 
marks  of  rent  in  Kirtlyngton,  a  messuage  and  appurtenances  in  North- 
clif  ton  and  Al.  of  rent  in  Northclif  ton  and  Hardeby  in  socage  of  John  Pigot, 
and  two  bovates  of  land  in  Ke worth  of  Roger  Belers  knight,  that  the 
said  Roland  is  his  next  heir  and  is  now  aged  21 1  years,  that  on 
Wednesday  after  St.  Peters  Chains  in  the  47th  year  the  said  heir 
was  married,  that  the  said  Roger  seized  his  body  and  sold  his  marriage 
to  Robert  Burgeys  of  Melton,  who  sold  it  to  Henry  Asty,  who  married 
him,  that  by  assignment  and  grant  of  the  said  Robert  Richard  de 
Bercotes  held  the  said  third  part  four  whole  years,  and  Henry  Asty 
after  for  two  years,  that  for  four  years  the  said  Richard  held  a  third 
part  of  the  said  rent  of  Kirtlyngton  and  the  said  Robert  other  two 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part   DT.  397 


1376.  Membrane.  10 — cord. 

thirds,  and  Henry  Asty  held  those  two  thirds  for  two  years,  and  that 
during  the  time  aforesaid  the  said  Richard  occupied  a  third  part  of 
the  rent  of  North  Clifton,  Herdeby  and  Ke worth,  and  the  said  Robert 
and  Henry  two  thirds  thereof,  wherefore  by  divers  writs  the  king  gave 
notice  to  the  said  Robert,  Roger,  Henry  and  Richard  to  be  in  chancery 
at  days  appointed  them  in  order  to  shew  cause  wherefore  they  ought 
not  to  answer  to  the  king  for  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  premises 
by  them  taken  which  pertain  to  the  king  and  for  the  value  of  the 
said  marriage,  namely  every  one  for  that  which  pertains  to  him  ; 
and  they  appeared,  and  acknowledged  that  they  occupied  the  premises, 
taking  the  issues  and  profits  and  the  value  of  the  said  marriage,  and 
were  ready  to  content  the  king  for  the  same  and  for  their  contempts 
and  trespasses  herein,  and  further  at  his  grace  to  do  and  receive  what 
the  court  should  determine,  craving  removal  of  the  king's  hand ; 
and  thereupon  William  Bey  ford,  to  whom  the  king  by  letters  patent 
granted  the  issues  and  profits  of  the  premises  whatsoever  by  whomsoever 
taken  and  the  value  of  the  said  marriage,  appearing  there  in  person 
confessed  that  by  virtue  of  those  letters  patent  he  was  contented  of 
all  that  pertains  to  the  king  for  the  same,  wherefore  it  is  determined 
that  the  king's  hand  be  removed,  that  livery  of  the  said  lands  and 
rents  be  given  to  the  heir  of  John  de  Sutton,  and  that  he  and  the 
said  Robert,  Roger,  Henry  and  Richard  be  discharged  toward  the 
king,. 

Nov.  6.  To  Richard  de  Ravenser  keeper  of  the  hanaper  of  chancery.    Order, 

Westminster,  without  taking  a  fee  to  the  king's  use,  to  deliver  to  Agnes  Chelwordis- 

wode  of  Somerset  letters  patent  in  his  custody  whereby  the  king  has 

pardoned  the  said  Agnes  the  suit  of  his  peace  to  him  pertaining  for 

the  theft  of  one  brass  bowl,  3  pecks  of  wheat  and  one  loaf.       By  K. 

Dec.  12.  To  John  de  Foxle  keeper  of  the  king's  forest  this  side  Trent,  or  to 
Westminster,  his  representative  in  the  forest  of  Bere.  Order,  if  Thomas  Cheyne 
knight  taken  and  imprisoned  in  Winchester  castle  for  an  alleged 
trespass  of  venison  in  the  said  forest  for  which  he  is  indicted  shall 
find  twelve  true  men  of  the  keeper's  bailiwick  who  will  mainpern 
to  have  him  before  the  justices  next  in  eyre  for  pleas  of  the  forest  in 
the  county  of  Suthampton,  when  they  shall  come  thither,  in  order  to 
stand  to  right  concerning  that  trespass,  to  deliver  him  to  those  men 
on  bail  if  replevisable  according  to  the  assize  of  the  forest,  bringing 
before  the  said  justices  the  twelve  men's  names  and  this  writ. 

Nov.  27.         To   Nicholas  de   Dabruggecourte  constable  of  Notyngham   castle, 

Havering      and  to  his  lieutenant.     Order  at  their  peril  to  receive  Peter  de  la 

[atte  Bower].  ]yjare  knight  from  him  who  shall  deliver  him  to  them  on  the  king's 

behalf,  and  to  keep  him  in  safe  custody  in  the  prison  of  the  said  castle 

until  further  order.  By  K. 

The  like  to  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  constable  of  Dovorre  castle, 

and  to  his  lieutenant. 

Dec.  22.  To  all  and  singular  the  admirals  and  their  lieutenants,  the  sheriffs, 

Westminster,  mayors,  customers,  keepers  of  ports  and  other  places  by  the  sea,  bailiffs, 

ministers  and  other  the  king's  lieges  to  whom  etc.     Order  to  suffer 

the  now  mayor,  jurats,  the  hundred  peers  and  the  commonalty  of 

the  city  of  Baioun,  their  fellow  citizens,  the  king's  merchants  and 


LLENDAK    OF    '  LOSE    ROLLS. 


137 


nhrmv     I<>    -rant. 


•f  that  city  and  every  of  them  to  In-  quit  of  payment  of  3d. 
in  tin-  |kmiiu1  upon  their  goods  and  merchandise  now  or  hereafter 
brought  to  any  port  of  England  or  taken  out  of  any  such  |»>it. 
releasing  any  distress  made  upon  them  or  any  of  them  for  that  cans 
ai  on  24  February  in  the  2.">th  year  of  bis  reign  the  king  by  charter 
granted  to  them  and  every  of  them,  tin  ii  heirs  and  -  »rs,  t<>  be 

thereof  quit  and  discharged  for  ever  within  the  realm. 
Et  '  mt  pa 

N  To  Thomas         Despenser.     Order  during  the  nonage  of  the   heir 

Westminster  of  Edward  le  Despenser  tenant  in  chief  to  pay  to  John  Stygan  the  king's 

rjeant  the  1»>/.  a  year  which  by  virtue  of  certain  letters  patent  of 
the  king  the  said  Thomas  is  bound  to  pay  at  the  exchequer  for  the 
manor  of  Bautre  co.  York  which  was  of  the  said  Edward,  taking 
the  said  John's  acquittance  from  time  to  tim>  n  26  November 

la;-t  the  king  by  Utters  patent  granted  to  the  ^aid  John  those  10/.  a 
year,  the  said  manor  being  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  said 
heir's  nonage,  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  .Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
by  the  hands  of  the  said  Thomas,  his  executors  and  assigns,  until 
the  lawful  age  of  the  heir.  By  p.s.  [31174.] 

Et  erat  patens. 


Dec.  2". 

•minster. 


To  John  Bygot  escheator  in  Northumberland.  Order  to  deliver 
to  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of  Robert  de  Ravines  tenant  in  chief  certain 
lands  in  Short ilat  which  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  for  that 
Agnes  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Robert  without  the  king's  licence 
married  Robert  de  Lout  her  and  are  in  his  hand  ;  as  lately  the  king 
ordered  Gilbert  de  Culwen  late  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  the  lands  of  the  said  Agnes  there  were  by  him  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  ami  the  yearly  value  thereof,  and  he  certified  that 
certain  lands  there  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  John  de 
Scotherskclf  late  escheator,  for  that  it  was  before  liim  found  that  the 
said  Agnes  being  the  king's  widow  married  as  aforesaid,  and  that 
the  same  are  worth  40*.  a  year  :  and  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken 
at  the  king's  command  by  Thomas  de  Musgrave  late  escheator,  that 
the  said  Agnes  died  on  8  October  in  the  36th  year  of  the  reign,  that 
she  held  the  premises  in  dower  after  the  death  of  the  said  Robert 
de  Raymes  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Nicholas  of  the  barony  of  Bolbek 
by  knight  service,  and  that  the  said  Nicholas  is  the  next  heir  of  his 
said  father  and  of  full  age  ;  and  on  30  May  in  the  44th  vear  of  the 
reign  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Nicholas,  and 
commanded  liven-  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  fathers  lands. 

Membrane  9. 

Oct.  15.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Haxay,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Oct.  5.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  farm 

Westminster,  or  issues  of  the  city  to  pay  to  Jordan  de  Barton  the  arrears  since 
16  July  in  the  35th  year  of  the  reign  of  3d.  a  day,  and  henceforward 
to  pay  him  that  daily  sum,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  that  date 
the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  Jordan 
for  his  good  service  as  well  in  the  chancery  as  elsewhere  3d.  a  day 
for  life  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  by  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs. 
Et  erat  patens. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II.  399 


1376.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Oct.  22.  To  all  and  singular  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  bailiffs,  provosts,  ministers, 

Westminster,  seamen  and  other  the  king's  lieges  within  liberties  and  without  to 
whom  etc.  Order  to  suffer  the  men  of  the  bishop  of  Salisbury  of 
Godalmyng  co.  Surrey  to  be  quit  of  toll  upon  their  goods  and 
merchandise  according  to  the  charters  of  former  kings,  as  they  ought 
to  be  and  as  they  and  the  said  bishop's  men  of  that  town  have  been 
used  to  be  heretofore  from  the  date  of  those  charters  ;  as  among  other 
liberties  thereby  granted  to  the  bishop  of  Salisbury  and  his  successors 
it  is  granted  that  the  bishop,  the  dean  and  canons  of  Salisbury,  their 
successors  and  all  their  men  of  all  their  fees  shall  be  quit  of  toll 
throughout  all  the  king's  land,  of  suits  of  shires  and  hundreds,  works 
of  castles  and  of  all  other  works. 
Et  crat  patens. 

Oct.  22.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  Alexander  archbishop  of  York  to  the  king  and  council 
presented,  to  stay  their  demand  made  by  exchequer  summons  upon 
him  for  payment  of  one  year's  tenth  last  granted  to  the  king  during 
the  vacancy  of  the  archbishopric  by  the  chapter  of  York  and  the 
clergy  of  that  province  for  all  the  time  the  temporalities  of  the 
archbishopric  were  in  the  king's  hand,  discharging  him  of  whatsoever 
sums  are  demanded  of  him  for  the  same  for  that  time  ;  as  he  has  shewn 
the  king  that  although  they  were  in  the  kings  hand  during  the 
vacancy  of  the  archbishopric  by  the  death  of  John  the  last  arch- 
bishop, from  6  November  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  when  the 
said  John  died  to  6  May  following  when  the  king  commanded  the 
temporalities  to  be  restored,  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  are 
demanding  24/.  3s.  6d.  for  the  said  tenth  during  that  time,  and  are 
unlawfully  distraining  him  for  the  same,  although  he  has  paid  his 
proportion  thereof  from  6  May  aforesaid,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for 
remedy.  Proviso  that  the  said  archbishop  shall  pay  at  the  exchequer 
the  tenth  falling  upon  him  for  the  said  temporalities  since  the  restitution 
and  livery  thereof,  as  he  ought  to  do. 

Oct.  24.  To  Gilbert  Culwen  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  piece  of  ground  and 
four  bovates  of  land  in  Westnesse  in  Rydale,  if  taken  into  his  hand 
for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other,  delivering 
to  John  Growelle  now  chaplain  of  a  chantry  there  founded  by  John 
de  Stayngrefe  knight  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king 
ordered  William  de  Ergum  late  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the 
cause  wherefore  he  took  into  the  king's  hand  lands  in  Westnesse 
which  were  of  the  said  John  Stavngrefe,  the  description  and  the  true 
yearly  value  thereof,  and  he  certified  that  he  seized  the  premises  into 
the  king's  hand  for  that  he  found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken 
of  his  office,  that  in  the  time  of  King  Edward  I  the  said  founder  with 
the  king's  licence  gave  the  same  to  the  said  chantry  to  find  a  chaplain 
celebrating  divine  service  for  the  founder's  soul  and  for  the  souls  of 
his  ancestors,  and  that  the  said  alms  are  withdrawn  and  no  chaplain 
is  found,  certifying  that  for  that  cause  the  premises  are  in  the  king's 
hand  ;    and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 

Oct.  23.  To  the  sheriff  of  Xorffolk.     Order  to  cause  John  Yerdoun  knight 

Westminster,  to  have  seisin  of  10  acres  of   and  and  b  acres  of  pasture  in  Fornesete 


UK)  CALENDAB    "K   CLOSK    ROLLS. 


1376.  Hembram  9   -cont. 

and  Multon  held  by  Robert  Bacoun  of  Dittleburgh  outlawed  for  folony 

it    ifl  said  ;    as  the  k  1 1 1  lt  lias  teamed  by  iiU|uisitinti.  taken  by  the  sheriff, 

that  the  premises  have  been  in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  axe 

\«t  m  his  hand,  that  they  are  held  of  the  said  John  as  of  his  manor  of 
Mnlton,  and  that  William  de  Whappelodt  had  the  year  and  a  day 
and  the  waste  thereof  by  the  king's  grant. 

Oct.  20.  To   the   treasurer   and   the    barons  of   the   exchequer,   and   to   the 

Westminster,  ehain berlains.  Order  to  allow  Thomas  de  Ilderton  sheriff  of 
Northumberland  wages  for  his  expenses  in  coming  from  the  city  of 
York  to  London  to  get  from  the  council  and  take  to  Robert  the  king's 
cousin  of  Scotland  an  acquittance  for  payment  of  4,000  marks  by  him 
payable  for  particular  causes  for  Midsummer  term  last,  in  abiding 
meanwhile  at  London,  and  thence  returning  to  York  ;  and  order  to 
the  treasurer  and  chamberlains  to  deliver  to  the  said  Thomas  of  the 
treasury  what  shall  be  so  allowed  him. 

Nov.  18.  To  the  provost  and  scholars  of  the  college  called  the  '  Quenehalle  ' 
w  >-tmin9ter.  Oxford  of  the  king's  patronage.  Strict  order  to  observe  and  cause 
to  be  observed  the  statutes  and  ordinances  of  the  said  college  and 
all  things  therein  contained,  and  to  be  obedient  and  intendant  to 
Alexander  archbishop  of  York  and  his  commissaries  and  to  their 
lawful  and  canonical  commands  according  to  their  oaths  and  to  the 
form  and  effect  of  the  said  statutes,  not  making  frivolous  or  undue 
provocations  or  appeals  from  his  cognisance  or  sentence  contrary  to 
the  same,  and  revoking  any  such  made  by  them  or  any  of  them, 
knowing  of  a  surety  that,  if  rebellion  or  default  herein  be  found  in 
them,  the  king  will  cause  them  as  rebels  and  contemners  of  his  command 
to  be  so  punished  that  it  shall  be  for  a  terror  hereafter  to  others  ;  as 
in  the  said  statutes  and  ordinances  by  the  provost  produced  before 
the  king  and  council  at  the  king's  command,  to  the  keeping  whereof 
they  are  every  one  of  them  bound  by  oath,  it  is  among  other  things 
contained  that  the  archbishop  of  York  for  the  time  being  ought  to 
have  the  oversight  of  the  college,  confirming  the  provost  when  elected 
and  in  certain  cases  deposing  him,  and  censuring  and  determining 
all  manner  of  strife  and  discord  therein  which  by  the  provost  and 
scholars  may  not  be  assuaged  ;  and  now  the  said  archbishop, 
perpending  that  grievous  defaults  are  manifestly  threatened  in  the 
said  college,  and  that  certain  quarrels,  discords,  altercations,  wrong- 
doings and  debates  are  arisen  among  them  and  yet  remain  without 
correction,  has  deputed  certain  sufficient  clerks  his  commissaries  to 
exercise  his  office  in  all  things  that  concern  or  may  concern  the  said 
college,  as  he  has  testified  to  the  king  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that 
the  said  statutes  be  kept  inviolate,  and  that  the  provost  and  scholars, 
though  they  will  not,  be  bound  together  in  unity  as  fellows  and 
brethren. 

[Foedera.] 

Mandate  to  the  chancellor  of  the  university  and  the  mayor  of  the 
town  of  Oxford  to  remove  all  manner  of  lay  force,  if  any  be  by  clerks 
or  laymen  whatsoever  made  to  resist  the  said  archbishop  or 
commissaries,  or  to  disturb  them  in  the  exercise  of  their  office  according 
to  the  statutes  and  ordinances  aforesaid,  and  to  be  aiding  the  said 
archbishop  and  commissaries  in  the  execution  of  the  premises  when 
by  them  required. 

[Ibid.] 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part   II.  401 


1376.  Membrane  9 — cont. 

Nov.  16.  To  John  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows  Justices  appointed  to  hold 
Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  to  view  the  record  and  process  of  a  cause 
lately  before  the  king  in  chancery  by  writ  of  scire  facias  between 
Thomas  bishop  of  Durham  and  Walter  Tyrell  concerning  a  ferry 
upon  the  river  Twede  within  the  bishop's  lordship  at  Twedemouth 
on  the  English  side,  and  to  proceed  therein  with  such  speed  as  may 
be  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England,  the  allegation  and 
grant  of  aid  hereinafter  mentioned  notwithstanding,  so  that  they 
proceed  not  to  rendering  of  judgment  without  advising  the  king  ; 
as  in  that  cause  the  said  Walter  alleged  that  he  held  the  ferry  aforesaid 
for  life  by  the  king's  grant  with  reversion  to  the  king,  and  without 
the  king  ought  not  to  make  answer,  craving  the  king's  aid,  which  is 
granted  him,  and  the  said  record  and  process  are  sent  to  be  determined 
before  the  king  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  said  bishop  it  is  shewn  the 
king  that  by  reason  of  that  allegation  and  grant  of  aid  proceeding 
is  deferred  to  his  hurt,  wherefore  by  his  petition  presented  in  the  last 
parliament  he  has  prayed  for  remedy.  By  pet.  of  pari. 

[Ibid.] 

Nov.  6.  To   Walter   Holt   escheator  in   Leycestershire.     Order   to   take   of 

Westminster.  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  Simon  Pakeman  tenant  in  chief  an  oath  that 

she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her  dower 

of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 

sending  the  assignment  under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

Membrane  8. 

Nov.  18.  To  the  archbishops,  bishops,  abbots,  priors,  deans,  archdeacons, 
Westminster,  provosts,  sacrists,  prebendaries  in  cathedral  or  collegiate  churches, 
officials,  advocates,  proctors  and  all  other  ecclesiastical  persons  and 
judges  holding  dignity  or  office  whatsoever,  notaries  public  and  others 
whatsoever  to  whom  etc.,  and  to  every  of  them.  Order,  under  pain 
of  forfeiture,  not  to  admit  John  Cheyne  or  any  other  person  [to  hold] 
any  manors  or  lands  which  are  of  the  possessions  and  farms  of  the 
cathedral  church  of  Exeter  unless  such  persons  be  first  lawfully  accepted 
to  residence  by  the  dean  and  chapter  and  have  there  kept  their  residence 
according  to  the  ordinances  in  the  said  church  made  by  the  king's 
forefathers  at  the  foundation  thereof,  and  unless  such  farms  lawfully 
fall  to  them  according  to  the  course  of  their  residence,  not  suffering 
them  by  colour  of  papal  provisions  or  collations  to  enter  the  same, 
meddle  therewith  or  dispose  thereof,  knowing  for  a  surety  that,  if 
by  their  default  aught  be  suffered,  to  be  done  by  the  said  John  or 
other  canons  of  the  said  church  impugning  the  king's  right  in  that 
behalf,  the  king  will  be  wroth  not  only  with  the  doers  but  with  them 
as  destroyers  of  the  chantries,  the  rights  and  services  of  the  said  church 
and  of  other  works  of  piety,  and  as  favourers  and  maintainers  of  the 
said  John  and  of  those  other  canons,  and  if  on  whatsoever  pretence 
any  bulls,  instruments  or  processes  relating  to  such  provisions  or 
collations  be  by  the  said  John,  his  proctors  or  attorneys  or  by  others 
whatsoever  produced  to  them  or  any  of  them,  order  without  delay 
to  bring  the  same  before  the  king  and  council  that  the  king  may  further 
do  what  shall  seem  good  for  their  punishment,  the  protection  of  liis 
right  and  patronage,  and  for  the  peace  of  the  said  church  ;  as  the  same 
being  founded  by  the  king's  forefathers  was  by  them  endowed  with 
certain  manors  and  lands  to  the  end  these  should  be  as  farms  and 

cr2(J 


402  CALENDAK    01     cl.osi;    HoLl.s. 


1 . .?('.  Mi  mbrane  B— cont. 

temporalities  thereof,  and  that  the  canon-  accepted  and  residing  as 
■foresaid,  performing  divine  Bervice,  and  doing  other  works  of  piety 
for  tlic  king  and  his  forefathers  according  to  the  said  ordinances,  and 
none  other,  should  have  those  farms  in  aid  and  support  of  snob  residence ; 
but  the  king  lias  newly  heard  with  astonishment  that  the  said  .John 
and  certain  other  canons  of  that  church,  fearing  not  to  offend  the 
king  and  regarding  not  the  said  ordinance  and  the  king's  patronage 
hut  preferring  their  own  advantage,  have  obtained  papal  provisions 
.and  collations  concerning  certain  of  (hoc  farms,  although  according 
to  the  said  ordinances  no  such  provision  ought  to  pertain  to  the  pope 
nor  has  pertained  at  any  time  past,  and  are  purposing  to  bring  certain 
bulls  of  provision  or  collation  to  certain  of  the  archbishops  etc.  aforesaid 
to  execute  the  same,  striving  by  colour  thereof  to  be  by  them  inducted 
and  to  hold  the  premises  ;  and  the  king  takes  note  that  such  provision, 
if  suffered,  would  tend  not  only  to  the  disherison  of  the  crown  and  the 
ruin  of  the  said  church  and  of  chantries  therein  founded  for  the 
souls  of  his  forefathers,  but  also  to  the  prejudice  of  other 
cathedral  churches  and  houses  of  his  patronage  whatsoever  in  the 
realm,  and  it  is  his  will  altogether  to  cut  off  that  error  in  the  beginning 
lest  it  take  root.  By  C. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  18.  To  the  chancellor  and  regent  masters  of  the  university  of  Oxford. 
fcminster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  W.  bishop  of  London  and  of  Thomas 
Russok  prior  provincial  of  the  order  of  friars  preachers  in  England, 
to  admit  and  reconcile  John  de  Wolfurton  bachelor  in  theology,  one 
of  the  friars  aforesaid,  to  the  estate  and  degree  wherein  he  formerly 
stood  in  the  said  university,  suffering  him  to  do  and  exercise  all  things 
[pertaining]  to  his  faculty  until  according  to  the  statutes  of  the  university 
he  shall  be  advanced  to  a  higher  estate,  that  for  their  default  the  king 
induct  and  reconcile  not  the  said  John  by  his  own  power ;  as 
the  said  petition  shews  that  at  the  suggestion  and  procurement  of 
certain  his  enemies  the  said  John  is  of  malice  banished  out  of  the 
university  without  reasonable  cause,  praying  for  his  restoration. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  24.  To  the  collectors  of  the  custom  of  3d.  in  the  pound  in  the  port 
Westminster,  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne.  Order,  upon  petition  made  on  behalf 
John  Williamson,  William  Johanson  and  their  fellows,  merchants  of 
the  town  of  Seriz  in  Seland,  if  the  facts  are  as  stated,  to  dearrest  those 
merchants,  their  ships  and  merchandise,  suffering  them  without  let 
to  pass  whither  they  will  ;  as  it  is  shewn  the  king  by  their  complaint 
that  while  sailing  towards  Seland  certain  ships  of  theirs  were  driven 
by  a  storm  to  the  said  port,  and  were  compelled  to  touch  there,  although 
they  laded  the  said  ships  with  white  herring  at  Scone  and  would  have 
taken  the  same  to  their  own  parts  to  make  their  advantage  thereof, 
but  that  the  collectors  are  demanding  of  them  custom  and  subsidy 
for  the  said  herring  being  so  driven  to  land,  as  if  it  were  exposed  for 
sale  which  it  is  not,  and  are  unlawfully  detaining  the  said  ships  under 
arrest ;  and  the  king's  mind  is  that  custom  and  subsidy  shall  not  be 
paid  by  foreign  merchants  upon  property  and  merchandise,  so  driven 
to  land,  if  the  same  be  not  exposed  for  sale. 

To  Roger  de  Fulthorp  and  his  felloAvs  justices  appointed  to  survey  and 

repair  certain  walls,  dikes,  gutters,  sewers,  bridges,  causeways  and  sluices 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II. 


403 


1376.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

in  the  parts  of  Holdernesse.  Writ  (imperfect),  reciting  that  the  king 
is  informed  that  it  was  before  the  said  justices  presented  that  a  sewer 
called  Hedonflete  ought  to  be  and  used  to  be  30  feet  in  width  and 
12  feet  in  depth,  that  for  probable  causes  laid  before  him  and  the 
council  the  king  caused  the  process  before  them  begun  concerning  the 
same  to  be  postponed  until  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  last ;  and 
that  now  by  complaint  made  on  behalf  of  the  tenants  of  the  manor  of 
Brustwyk  in  Holdernesse,  held  by  Ingelram  de  Coucy  earl  of  Bedeford 
and  Isabel  his  wife  the  king's  daughter  by  grant  of  the  king  during  the 
said  Isabel's  life,  the  king  has  learned  that,  if  the  said  sewer  be 
made  of  the  width  and  depth  aforesaid,  the  whole  country  adjacent 
might  be  flooded  by  the  river  Humbre.  .  .  . 

Vacated,  because  otherwise  on  the  back  of  this  roll. 

Nov.  28.  To  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London.  Order, 
Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  Simon  archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  late  bishop 
of  London,  to  suffer  him,  as  lawful  is,  to  take  of  those  lawfully  to 
be  charged  therewith  and  freely  dispose  of  the  crop  of  certain  lands 
of  the  bishopric  of  London  by  him  sown  with  divers  kinds  of  corn 
before  he  was  translated  to  the  see  of  Canterbury  or  the  value  of 
the  same,  not  causing  or  procuring  any  let  or  grievance  to  him 
herein,  that  by  their  default  no  second  occasion  be  given  of  vexing 
the  king  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  the  dean  and  chapter  have 
unlawfully  hindered  the  archbishop  from  taking  the  said  crop  for 
that  the  keeping  of  the  temporalities  of  the  said  bishopric  was  in 
their  hands  during  the  vacancy  thereof,  praying  for  remedy  ;  and 
in  consideration  that  such  crop  ought  in  law  to  pertain  to  the 
archbishop  and  to  none  other,  the  king  has  many  times  ordered  the 
dean  and  chapter  to  suffer  him  to  have  the  same  and  freely  dispose 
thereof,  or  to  take  heed  that  he  was  contented  for  it,  and  if  there 
were  cause  wherefore  they  ought  not  so  to  do,  to  be  before  the  council 
at  Westminster  at  a  set  day  now  past  to  shew  the  same,  and  they 
appeared  that  day  before  the  council,  and  expressly  averred  that  they 
did  not  hinder  the  archbishop  as  aforesaid,  as  by  his  complaint  alleged, 
setting  forth  nought  else  to  the  purpose  wherefore  he  ought  not  to 
have  and  take  the  said  crop. 

Dec.  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the  issues  of 

Westminster,  the  county  to  pay  to  Joan  princess  of  Wales  every  year  30/.  at  Easter 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  as  the  same  used  to  be  paid  to 
Edmund  earl  of  Kent  the  king's  uncle  in  his  life  time,  taking  her 
acquittance  ;  as  on  26  February  in  the  first  year  of  his  reign  the  king 
by  letters  patent  gave  to  the  said  Edmund  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body 
(among  other  things)  301.  a  year  of  the  issues  of  Kent  to  be  taken  by 
the  hands  of  the  sheriff  under  the  name  and  honour  of  earl  of  Kent, 
and  as  well  the  said  earl  as  John  his  son  and  heir,  after  earl  of  Kent, 
was  at  his  death  seised  thereof  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee  according  to 
that  grant,  as  is  found  by  divers  inquisitions  and  by  certificate  of  the 
exchequer  sent  into  the  chancery,  wherefore  on  20  November  in  the 
35th  year  the  king  ordered  the  then  sheriff  to  pay  to  Edward  prince 
of  Wales  and  to  the  said  Joan  his  wife,  being  sister  and  heir  of  the 
said  John,  30/.  a  year  from  the  said  John's  death  ;  and  now  the  said 
prince  is  dead. 

Et  erat  patens. 

[Feeder  a.  \ 


I   \LK\h.\i;    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


;•;.  iiembraru  ft— cont. 

\  »▼.  14.         I      Robert   Rust  merchant  of  Blakenee.     Order,  upon  the  petition 

■min-tor.  of  Arnald  Tape  master  of  a  ship  called  the  '  George,'  it'  the  foots  are 

as  stated,  to  content  him  without  delay  for  tin-  freight  thereof  and 

for  the  damage  and  lo>s  by  him  sustained  by  the  said  Robert's  default, 

as  he  is  hound  to  do,  or  to  be  before  (lie  king  and  council  at  West  minster 

on  the  morrow  of  St.  [Catherine  next  to  shew  wherefore  be  would  not 
or  ought  noi  -•.  to  do,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  be  by 
the  council  determined  in  that  behalf;  as  the  said  Arnald  has  shewn 
the  kins;  that  the  said  Robert  lately  freighted  and  hired  the  -aid  ship 
to  pa—  to  the  Hay  and  thence  return  with  his  merchandise  to  the  port 
of  Blakenee,  that  the  same  being  laded  at  the  Hay  with  salt  was  by 
the  said  Arnald  brought  again  to  the  said  port,  namely  to  the  place 
where  other  ships  used  there  to  come  to  land,  that  when  the  ship  came 

fe  to  land  the  said  Robert,  for  his  greater  advantage  and  for  quiet 
delivery  of  the  salt  as  he  averred,  requested  and  insisted  that  the 

id  Arnald  should  move  the  same  nearer  to  the  town  of  Blakenee 
than  other  ships  were  wont  to  be  brought,  promising  to  take  upon 
him  all  risk,  wherefore  the  said  Arnald,  though  unwillingly,  took  his 
word  and  brought  the  ship  in  thither,  whereby  it  was  wrecked  by 
default  of  the  said  Robert,  and  the  said  merchandise  and  the  ship's 
goods  and  chattels  were  totally  lost,  praying  that  whereas  the  said 
Robert  refuses  to  content  the  said  Arnald  for  the  freight  and  for  his 
damage  and  loss,  the  king  would  compel  him  so  to  do. 

Nov.  20.  To  John  Rokwode  escheator  in  Norffolk  and  Suffolk.  Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  Thomas  brother  and  heir  of  John  de  Loudham  tenant  in  chief  to 
have  seisin  of  the  lands  of  the  said  Thomas  (sic)  his  brother  taken 
into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  before 
the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  fealty,  and  respited  his 
homage  until  Easter  next.  By  C. 

Dec.  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Berkshire  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Henry  Fachel,  who  is  too  sick  and  infirm  to  do  what  pertains 
to  that  office. 


Dec.  10.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  dearrest  divers  carcases  of 
Westminster,  oxen  and  bacon  pigs  bought  and  purveyed  of  William  Webbe  to  the 
king's  use  by  William  Eyremyne  his  clerk  treasurer  of  Calais  for 
furnishing  that  town  and  by  the  sheriffs  arrested,  delivering  the  same 
to  the  said  treasurer  or  his  attorneys  to  be  brought  to  Calais  that 
arrest  notwithstanding  ;  as  William  de  Eyremyn  has  now  newly 
bought  them  for  the  purpose  aforesaid,  as  may  appear  by  certain 
indentures  made  between  him  and  the  said  William  Webbe,  and  they 
are  arrested  in  the  city  of  London  to  the  king's  hurt  and  the  peril  of 
the  furnishing  of  Calais. 

Dec.  16.  To  all  and  singular  the  mayors,  bailiffs,  customers  and  keepers  of 
Westminster,  ports  along  the  sea  coast  in  Sussex  and  elsewhere.  Order,  upon  the 
petition  of  certain  merchants  of  the  city  of  London,  to  suffer  them 
to  lade  in  other  ships  their  wool  whereupon  it  shall  appear  by  letters 
of  cocket  that  the  custom  and  subsidy  have  been  truly  paid,  and  without 
a  second  payment  thereof  to  take  them  over  to  the  staple  of  Calais, 
provided  they  shall  first  content  those  by  whom  the  wool  was  salved 
for  their  pains  ;    as  at  the  suit  of  those  merchants,  averring  that  at 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II.  405 


1376.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

the  port  of  Suthampton  they  laded  certain  ships  with  their  wool  to 
be  taken  to  the  said  staple,  that  on  their  voyage  at  sea  off  the  coast 
of  Shorham  co.  Sussex  three  of  those  ships  with  the  wool  therein 
were  driven  ashore  by  a  storm  and  there  wrecked,  that  divers  seamen 
of  every  ship  escaped  to  land,  and  that  great  part  of  the  wool  was 
cast  ashore  and  salved,  and  was  by  divers  men  of  those  parts  taken, 
carried  away  and  detained,  the  king  lately  by  letters  patent  appointed 
certain  his  lieges  to  make  inquisition  and  restitution  thereof  ;  and 
the  said  petition  shews  that  they  would  lade  in  other  ships  and  take 
to  Calais  certain  of  that  wool  salved  by  divers  men  of  divers  towns 
upon  the  sea  coast  and  to  them  delivered  by  virtue  of  the  said  letters 
patent,  and  that  though  the  custom  and  subsidy  thereupon  was  formerly 
paid,  as  may  appear  by  certain  letters  of  cocket  in  their  hands  as  they 
aver,  they  are  by  certain  mayors  etc.  hindered  from  so  doing  unless 
they  pay  the  same  a  second  time,  for  that  they  will  put  the  wool  in 
other  ships  as  they  needs  must  do,  praying  the  king's  aid. 
Et  erat  patens. 

MEMBRANE  7. 

Oct.  13.  To  David  Craddok  chamberlain  in  North  Wales.     Order  to  deliver 

Havering  atte  in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Edward  prince  of  Wales  duke  of 
Bower.  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Cestre,  or  to  command  livery  to  be  given  her 
of  the  county  etc.  following  which  the  king  with  assent  of  the  council 
has  assigned  to  her  of  the  lordships,  castles,  commotes,  lands  and 
rents  of  the  said  prince  in  North  Wales,  having  assigned  her  dower 
of  the  prince's  lordships  etc.  as  well  in  England,  Cornwall  and  Devon 
as  in  Wales,  Cestreshire  and  Flynt,  also  the  issues  thereof  now  or 
hereafter  taken  since  the  prince's  death,  causing  indentures  to  be 
made  of  arms  and  armour,  victuals  and  all  other  property  of  the  king 
in  the  castle  hereinafter  mentioned,  if  any,  and  further  such  and  so  many 
writs  or  mandates  on  her  behalf  as  shall  be  needful  or  convenient  for 
furtherance  of  the  business,  as  used  to  be  done  according  to  the  law 
and  custom  of  those  parts,  reserving  specially  to  the  king  until  further 
order  the  perquisites  of  the  county  courts  of  Caernervanshire,  and 
of  the  turns,  hundreds  and  commotes  of  Kemetmayn  and  Dynthlaen  ; 
as  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  the  whole  county  of  Meryonnyth  with 
Hardelagh  castle,  the  commotes  of  Kemetmayn  and  Dynthlaen  co. 
Caen[arvan],  and  a  yearly  rent  of  13?.  65.  8d.  of  the  abbot  and  convent 
of  Bardesey,  further  granting  her  all  fines,  ransoms,  issues,  amerce- 
ments, escheats  and  forfeitures  of  all  her  men  and  tenants  within  the 
precinct  of  those  lordships  arising  for  any  cause  whatsoever,  all  profits 
and  emoluments  by  reason  thereof,  and  deodands  arising  therein 
now  or  hereafter  adjudged  before  the  justices  of  North  Wales  or  their 
representatives  in  their  sessions  since  the  prince's  death,  and  all  other 
profits  or  emoluments  oc  the  said  men  and  tenants  within  the  said 
precinct  by  the  law  of  England  or  of  Wales  or  by  any  other  the  custom 
of  those  parts  as  well  for  punishment  of  false  judgment  in  any  courts 
now  or  hereafter  annulled  as  for  wreck  of  the  sea,  king's  wreck  and 
other  wreck  of  whatsoever  kind,  as  fully  as  the  prince  in  his  life  time 
possessed  and  took  the  same,  granting  that  of  the  said  men  and  tenants 
she  shall  have  the  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives  and  of  outlaws  for 
whatsoever  cause  in  whatsoever  court  they  and  their  forfeitures  be 
adjudged  and  outlawries  published,  and  if  such  men  and  tenants  be 
tenants  severally  of  the  princess  and  of  the  king  or  other  lords,  and 


KM  CALENDAR    OF    CLOSK    ROLLS. 


L376.  M'inf>rnn.e  7 — con/. 

such  felonies  ox  trespasses  l>e  oommitted  and  contracts  whence 
outlawries  arise  be  made  within  the  preoinet  of  her  dower  she  shall 

have  all  their  goods  ami  chattels  when  convicted  or  Outlawed  which 
are  found  within  the  same,  saving  to  the  king  fines  etc.  of  the  men 
and  tenant-  of  the  remaining  two  thirds  of  that  heritage,  the  chattels 
of   felons,   fugitives   and   outlaws   therein,   saving  the    privilege    herein 

before  granted  to  the  princess  ;  also  that  she  shall  have  the  like  power 
and  prerogative  in  regard  to  process  and  punishment  of  her  ministers 

in  all  things  throughout  the  lordships  assigned  to  her  as  the  prince 
in  his  life  time  had,  as  by  examination  made  in  chancery  as  well  on 
behalf  of  the  king  as  of  Richard  son  and  heir  of  the  prince  who  is 
within  age,  and  as  contained  in  the  king's  letters  patent  thereupon 
made.  By  K.  upon  the  information  of  John  king  of  Castille  and 

Leon  in  regard  to  taking  the  said  issues. 

To  Hugh  le  Yonge  chamberlain  in  South  Wales.  Like  order  to 
deliver  in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Edward  prince  of  Wales  etc., 
or  to  cause  livery  to  be  given  her  of  the  towns,  castle  and  commotes 
hereinafter  mentioned  in  South  Wales  with  the  issues  thereof  arising 
since  the  prince's  death,  making  indentures,  writs  etc.  (as  above), 
reserving  specially  to  the  king  until  further  order  the  pleas  and 
perquisites  of  petty  sessions  of  justices  to  be  held  at  Cardygan  and  at 
Lampadern  and  maiden  fees  of  Kermerdynshire  and  Cardygan,  namely 
the  town  of  Cardigan  with  the  castle  there,  the  commotes  of  Iscoit, 
Generglyn,  Perveth,  Cruthyn,  Hannynyok,  Mevenyth,  Mabwynyan, 
Gwynyonuth,  Kaerwedros  and  of  Mabudrud  co.  Kermerdyn,  the  town 
of  Trevillan  and  Maynorsullen,  further  granting  her  all  fines  etc.  (as 
above)  adjudged  before  the  justices  of  South  Wales,  and  all  other 
profits  etc.,  as  fully  as  the  prince  in  his  life  time  took  the  same  while 
possessed  of  the  premises,  and  the  chattels  etc.  (as  above),  saving  to 
the  king  the  fines  etc.  (as  above),  also  that  she  shall  have  the  like 
prerogative  etc.,  as  by  examination  etc.  (as  above). 

By  K.  upon  the  like  information. 

Not  sent  to  the  exchequer  among  the  estreats,  for  that  letters  patent  are 
there  sent  in  which  the  same  things  are  all  contained. 

Oct.  14.  To  William  de  Skypwyth  justice  of  North  Wales  and  South  Wales. 

Havering  atte  Order  to  deliver  from  time  to  time  to  the  ministers  of  Joan  who  was 
Bower.  wjfe  0f  EdWard  prince  of  Wales  etc.  by  her  now  or  hereafter  deputed 
within  the  precinct  of  her  dower  all  estreats  and  the  tenor  of  all  records 
and  processes  whereby  forfeitures  or  other  profits  of  fines  or  amerce- 
ments now  or  hereafter  adjudged  before  the  said  justice  or  his 
representatives  in  the  king's  courts  in  Wales  may  reasonably  be 
demanded,  as  they  fall  in,  reserving  specially  to  the  king  until  further 
order  the  perquisites  of  the  county  courts  of  Caernervanshire,  of  the 
turns,  hundreds  and  commotes  of  Kemetmayn  and  Dynthlaen  in  North 
Wales,  the  pleas  and  perquisites  of  petty  sessions  of  justices  at  Cardygan 
and  at  Lampadern  and  maiden  fees  of  Kermerdynshire  and  Cardygan 
in  South  Wales  ;  as  with  assent  of  the  council  the  king  has  assigned  to  the 
said  princess  in  dower  the  whole  county  of  Meryonnyth  with  Hardelagh 
castle,  the  commotes  of  Kemetmayn  and  Dynthlaen  co.  Caen[arvan] 
and  a  yearly  rent  of  131.  6s.  8d.  of  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bardesey 
in  North  VVales,  the  town  and  castle  of  Cardigan,  the  commotes  of 
Iscoit,     Generglyn,     Perveth,      Cruthyn,     Hannynyok,      Mevenyth, 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II.  407 


1376.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

Mabwynyan,  Guynyonuth,  Kaerwedros  and  of  Mabudrud  co.  Kermer- 
dyn,  and  the  town  of  Trevillan  and  Maynorsullen  in  South  Wales,  grant- 
ing to  her  by  letters  patent  that  the  justice  of  North  Wales  and  South 
Wales  or  his  representatives  and  other  the  king's  ministers  or  ministers 
of  other  lords  in  Wales  of  whatsoever  condition  shall  in  all  the  places 
aforesaid  and  everywhere  within  the  said  precinct  cause  all  such 
estreats  etc.  to  be  delivered  to  her  ministers  to  her  use,  saving  to 
the  king  the  fines  etc.  of  his  men  and  tenants  of  the  remaining  two 
thirds  of  that  heritage,  the  chattels  of  felons,  fugitives  and  outlaws 
of  his  said  men  in  whatsoever  court  they  and  their  forfeitures  be 
adjudged  and  outlawries  be  published,  saving  the  privilege  granted 
to  the  said  princess.  By  K.  upon  the  like  information. 

Oct.  13.  To  John  Wodehous    chamberlain    of    Cestre.     Order  to  deliver  in 

Havering  atte  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Edward  prince  of  Wales  etc.,  or  to 
Bower.  command  livery  to  be  given  her  of  the  lordship,  town,  manor,  timber 
and  fee  farm  hereinafter  mentioned,  which  the  king  with  assent  of  the 
council  has  assigned  to  her  in  Cestreshire  and  Flynt,  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken  since  the  said  prince's  death,  causing  further 
such  and  so  many  writs  and  mandates  to  be  made  as  shall  be  needful 
or  convenient  for  furtherance  of  the  business,  and  as  used  to  be  done 
according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  those  parts,  namely  the  lordship 
of  Macclesfeld,  the  town  of  Middle wich  (Medewici),  the  manor  of 
Frodesham  with  timber  to  be  taken  in  the  forest  of  la  Mare  when 
need  be  for  repair  of  the  said  manor  and  of  the  mills  and  weirs  there 
by  view  of  the  justices  or  chamberlain  of  Cestre  for  the  time  being, 
and  100?.  of  fee  farm  of  the  town  of  Cestre,  granting  further  to  the 
said  princess  all  fines  etc.  (as  above)  adjudged  before  the  justices  of 
Cestre  or  their  representatives,  all  other  profits  etc.,  the  chattels  of 
felons  etc.,  saving  to  the  king  the  fines  etc.  of  his  men  and  tenants 
of  the  remaining  two  thirds  of  that  heritage,  the  chattels  of  felons  etc., 
and  that  she  shall  have  the  like  prerogative  etc.  (as  above),  as  by 
examination  had  etc.  By  K.  upon  the  like  information. 

Membrane  6. 

Oct.  14.  To  Thomas  de  Felton  and  John  de  la  Pole  justices  of  Cestre  or  to 

Havering  atte  their  representatives  there.  Order  to  deliver  from  time  to  time 
Bower.  ^Q  ^he  ministers  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Edward  prince  of 
Wales  etc.  all  estreats  etc.  (as  above)  ;  as  with  the  assent  of  the 
council  the  king  has  assigned  to  her  in  dower  the  lordship  of 
Macclesfeld,  the  town  of  Middle  wich,  the  manor  of  Frodesham  with 
timber  to  be  taken  in  the  forest  of  la  Mare,  and  1001.  of  the  fee  farm 
of  the  town  of  Cestre,  granting  her  by  letters  patent  that  the  justices 
of  Cestre  or  their  representatives  and  other  the  ministers  of  the  king 
or  of  other  lords  of  those  parts  shall  cause  all  such  estreats  etc.  to  be 
delivered  to  her  ministers,  saving  to  the  king  the  fines  etc.  (as  above). 

By  K.  upon  the  like  information. 

Oct.  13.  To  Richard  Sergeaux  steward  of  all  the  lands  and  lordships  in  Cornwall 

Havering  atte  and  Devon  which  were  of  Edward  prince  of  Wales  etc.,  and  to  Ralph  Tre- 

Bower.       newyth  receiver  there  specially  appointed  by  the  king.  Order  to  deliver  in 

dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  the  said  prince,  or  to  the  receiver  by 

her  now  appointed,  a  third  part  of  all  moneys  and  profits  arising  from 

the  stannary  and  stampage  of  tin  in  Cornwall  and  Devon  since  the 


CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    KOLLS. 


L376.  Mi  mbrane  6 — cunt. 

prince'.-  death,  suffering  a  third  part  thereof  lumceforwanl  to  be  paid 
DJ  the  hands  of  merchants  and  others  who  have  tin  or  of  others 
whatsoever  to  her  said  n  -e-  i\  l  r  and  to  other  recei\  BZ8  by  her  appointed 
hen-after,  even  as  the  said  Ralph  shall  take  the  remaining  two  thirds 
thereof,  BO  that  no  tin  there  stamped  shall  he  delivered  to  merchants 
or  others  hnt  in  the  form  hereinafter  mentioned,  and  that  the  stamping 
thereof  shall  he  done  as  well  by  the  said  steward  and  Ralph  as  by  the 
steward  and  reoeii  erof  the  princess  for  the  time  being  or  their  deputies, 
if  they  will  be  present;  as  (among  other  things)  the  king  by  letters 
patent  has  assigned  to  her  as  her  dower  of  the  profits  of  the  stannary  and 
unpage  of  tin  one  third  of  the  moneys  and  profits  aforesaid  since 
the  prince's  death  as  well  of  tin  stamped  as  not  stamped  and  for  that 
cause  forfeit  to  the  king  or  other  lords  of  Cornwall,  as  fully  as  the 
dukes  or  lords  of  Cornwall  for  the  time  being  who  have  or  by  law 
might  have  such  stampage  or  forfeiture  shall  take  the  same,  to  be  paid 
by  merchants  or  others  who  have  tin  to  a  receiver  now  or  hereafter 
by  her  appointed  as  the  prince's  receivers  used  to  levy  and  take  the 
same,  and  as  the  receivers  of  the  king  or  other  lords  who  have  the 
remaining  two  thirds  do  or  shall  do,  so  that  no  tin  there  stamped  shall  be 
delivered  to  merchants  or  others  until  she  shall  have  like  security 
for  default  of  payment  of  the  portion  to  her  due  as  shall  be  made 
according  to  custom  to  the  king  and  other  lords  for  those  two  thirds, 
willing  that  such  stamping  be  done  as  well  by  the  ministers  of  the 
king  and  such  other  lords  as  by  the  steward  and  receiver  of  the  princess 
or  their  deputies  for  the  time  being,  if  they  will  be  present. 

By  K.  upon  the  like  information. 

Oct.  13.  To  Adam  Stable  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator  therein. 

Havering  atte  Order  to  deliver  in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Edward  prince  of 

Bower.       Wales  etc.  the  inn  of  the  wardrobe  in  the  Old  Jewry  London  pertaining 

to  the  duchy  of  Cornwall  which  (among  other  things)  the  king  by 

letters  patent  has  assigned  to  her,  together  with  the  issues  thereof 

taken  since  the  prince's  death.         By  K.  upon  the  like  information. 

To  Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  Oxfordshire  and  Berkshire. 
Like  order  in  regard  to  Walyngford  castle  and  101.  8s.  9%d.  of  rent 
arising  of  the  lordship  thereof  in  divers  parcels,  namely  of  a  fishery 
in  the  river  Thames  46s.  Sd.,  of  the  mill  there  with  the  fishery  of  eels 
at  '  Flodgates  '  SI.  10s.,  of  the  island  of  meadow  called  Northacche 
20s.,  of  4  acres  of  meadow  called  Quenesherber  24s.,  of  36  acres  of 
meadow  called  Kyngesmede  11.  4rf.,  of  the  fee  farm  of  the  manor  of 
Bensyngton  39Z.  9s.  Id.,  and  of  the  perquisites  of  court  and  of  the  view 
of  that  manor  101.  18s.  1\d.,  also  the  manor  of  Netilbed  with  the 
wood  there  to  the  value  of  60s. 

To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.  Like  order  in 
regard  to  33Z.  10s.  of  rent  arising  from  the  farm  of  customary  tenants 
for  the  demesne  lands,  meadows,  pastures,  mills,  rents  and  services 
of  the  manor  of  Risbergh  with  the  park  and  outwood  there. 

To  Walter  Holt  escheator  in  Warwickshire.  Like  order  in  regard 
to  the  fee  farm  of  the  prior  and  convent  of  Coventre,  namely 
SSI.  6s.  Sd. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II.  409 


13 70.  Membrane  6 — conf. 

To  John  Bekyngham  escheator  in  Derbyshire.  Like  order  in 
regard  to  a  rent  and  other  profits  in  the  town  of  Repyndon  which  are 
of  the  honour  of  Cestre,  to  the  value  of  60s. 

To  Thomas  Illeston  escheator  in  Sussex.  Like  order  in  regard  to 
the  manor  of  Shorham.       By  K.  upon  the  like  information  as  above. 

To  John  Mattesford  escheator  in  Cornwall  and  Devon.  Like  order 
in  regard  to  the  manor  of  Rillaton,  the  town  of  Lostwythiel,  the  manors 
of  Tewyngton,  Helleston  in  Kerrier,  Moresk,  Tywamayll  and  Penmayn, 
the  fee  farm  of  Liskerit  namely  181.  18d.,  the  manor  of  Tyntagel  except 
Tyntagel  castle,  the  borough  of  Bossynny,  the  town  of  Camelford,  the 
manors  of  Penlyn  and  Tybeste,  the  borough  of  Helleston  in  Kerrier, 
the  fee  farm  of  Launceston  and  the  farm  of  other  profits  there  namely 
81.  9s.,  and  the  manor  of  Talskedy,  with  the  issues  thereof. 

Nov.  30.  To  the  keepers,  bailiffs  or  farmers  of  the  king's  manor  of  Maunsfeld 
Westminster,  co.  Notyngham.  Order  of  the  farm  or  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay  to 
Nicholas  Daubrichecourt  the  king's  esquire  for  life  20/.  a  year  at  Easter 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  lately 
on  1  March  in  the  44th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent 
granted  to  the  said  Nicholas  for  his  good  service  201.  a  year  to  be 
taken  at  the  exchequer  for  his  life  or  until  the  king  should  take  other 
order  for  his  estate  ;  and  on  30  November  last,  at  his  petition  and  for 
that  he  gave  up  those  letters  patent  in  chancery  to  be  cancelled,  the 
king  by  letters  patent  granted  him  the  same  sum  to  be  taken  as 
aforesaid  for  his  life  or  until  the  king  should  take  other  order  for  his 
estate. 

Et  erat  patens. 

1377. 

Here  was  the  great  seal  delivered  to  Adam  bishop  of  St.  Davids 
the  chancellor,  namely  11  January  this  year,  as  appears  in  a 
memorandum  enrolled  upon  the  back  of  this  roll. 

[Fcedera,  with  the  erroneous  date  12  January.] 

1376.  Membrane  5. 

Nov.  27.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest 
Westminster,  of  Chuyt  to  be  elected  instead  of  Robert  Banbury,  who  has  no  lands 
within  the  bounds  of  the  forest,  nor  dwells  therein. 

The  like  to  the  same  sheriff  for  election  of  a  verderer  instead  of 
John  Spircok. 

Nov.  30.  To  the  keepers  or  farmers  of  the  manor  of  Haveryng  atte  Boure 
Westminster,  for  the  time  being.  Order  to  pay  to  Richard  de  Redyng  the  arrears 
of  2d.  a  day  since  14  August  in  the  43rd  year  of  the  reign,  and 
henceforward  from  time  to  time  to  pay  him  that  daily  sum,  taking 
his  acquittance  for  every  payment ;  as  Queen  Philippa  granted  to  the  said 
Richard  during  her  life  the  keeping  of  the  warren  to  the  said  manor 
pertaining  taking  for  the  same  2d.  a  day  of  the  issues  of  the  manor  by  the 
hands  of  the  keepers  or  farmers  thereof  ;  and  on  the  aforesaid  date  the 
king,  willing  to  shew  him  favour  in  consideration  of  his  good  service 
to  the  said  queen  in  her  life  time,  and  for  that  by  her  death  the  said 
manor  was  come  to  the  king's  hands,  by  letters  patent  granted 
to  the  said  Richard  for  life  2d.  a  day  of  the  issues  thereof. 
Et  erat  patens. 


410  \i. i:\h\i:    OF   CLOSK    ROLLS. 


L376.  Mcmbram   5 — cont. 

Hoy  I  i  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop.    Order  to  take  the  fealty 

tminster   of  Robert  de  Ferreres  according  to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enolosed, 

and  to  deliver  to  the  Baid  Robert  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  the  messuage 

hereinafter  mentioned   taken   into  the   king's   hand   by  (lie  death  of 

Edward  le   Botiller,  hut   to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no 

farther  with  a   moietj    of  the  manor  of  Fraunketon  likewise  taken 

into  the  king's  hand,  delivering  up  any  issues  taken  of  the  prenn 

Baving  to  the  king  his  relief  if  any  he  lawfully  due  for  the  said  messuage  ; 

as  lately  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition,   by  the  escheator  taken 

at    the   king's  command,  that    the  said    Ivlward  at  his  death  held  in 

his  demesne  as  of  tee  a  burgage  in  Shrewsbury  in  a  street  called 

Doggepo]  in  chief  a-  a  free  burgage,  and  six  cottages,  40  acres  of  land, 

1:2  acres  of  wood.  10  acres  of  marsh  and  25s.  of  rent  in  Fraunketon 

of  others  than  the  king,  and  that  Elizabeth  daughter  of  John  Lestraunge 

of  Blakemere,  being  daughter  of  Ankaret  one  of  the  sisters  of  the  said 

Edward  and  a   minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  Margaret  wife  of  Fulk 

de  Pembrugge  knight,  being  daughter  of  Ida  the  second  sister,  Nicholas 

■  ii  of  Nicholas  de  Langeford  knight  being  son  of  Alice  the  third  sister, 

and  Walter  son  of  Dionysia  de  Cokesey  the  fourth  sister  deceased  are 

his  cousins  and  next  heirs,  on  behalf  of  the  said  Robert  and  Elizabeth 

his  wife  petition   was  after  made  to  the  king  shewing  that  William 

le  Botiller  father  of  the  said  Edward  took  to  wife  one  Ankaret  and  had 

issue  William,  that  William  the  son  had  issue  another  William,  that 

William   the  grandson  had  issue  the  said  Elizabeth  wife  of  Robert, 

that  after  the  said  Ankaret's  death  the  first  William  took  to  wife  one 

Ela  and  had  issue  Edmund,  the  said   Kdward,  Ankaret  daughter  of 

William,  Ida,  Alice  and  Dionysia,  that  Richard  Borrey  of  Salopboure 

by  his  writing  granted  to  the  said  first  William  (by  name  of  William 

le  Botiller  of  Wemme)  and  to  the  said  Ela  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their 

bodies,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  the  heirs  of  the  said 

William,  the  reversion  of  the  said  burgage,  by  name  of  a  messuage 

in  Salopboure  held  of  the  said  Richard's  heritage  by  Richard  Onyoteshay 

and  Joan  his  wife  for  Joan's  life  with  reversion  to  the  grantor  and 

his  heirs,  that  Joan  daughter  of  Richard  de  Fraunketon  by  charter 

likewise  gave  to  the  first  William  (by  the  name  aforesaid)  and  Ela 

and  to  the  heirs  male  of  their  bodies  Avith  remainder  to  the  said 

William's  heirs  the  cottages,  land  and  rent  aforesaid  by  name  of  a 

moiety  of  the  manor  of  Fraunketon,  that  after  the  said  Joan's  death 

the  first  William  and  Ela  by  virtue  of  the  said  grant  entered  the  said 

messuage,  that  after  the  death  of  the  first  William  and  Ela,  of  Edmund 

their  son  and  heir,  and  of  the  said  Edward  his  brother  and  heir,  all 

the  premises  ought  by  the  form  of  the  said  gift  and  grant  to  revert 

to  the  said  Elizabeth  wife  of  Robert,  being  cousin  and  heir  of  the  first 

William,  for  that  the  said  Edward  died  without  an  heir  male  of  his 

body  as  the  king  has  learned,  and  praying  livery  of  the  premises  ; 

and  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  give  notice  to  the  said  Elizabeth 

daughter  of  John,   Fulk,   Margaret,   Nicholas  and   Walter  to  be  in 

chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  last  to  shew  cause  wherefore 

the  king  ought  not  to  deliver  the  same  to  the  said  Robert  and  to 

Elizabeth  his  wife  as  next  heir  of  the  said  William  le  Botiller,  and  further 

to  receive  what  the  court  should  determine,  at  which  day  they  came 

not,   being  sufficiently  warned  as  the  sheriff  returned,  wherefore  it 

is  determined  that  the  king's  hands  be  removed  from  the  premises, 

and  that  the  issues  thereof  since  the  said  Edward's  death  be  delivered  up. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II. 


411 


1376. 


Membrane  5 — cont. 


Dec.  1.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  king's  manor  of  Okham.     Order 

Westminster,  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay  to  John  Rukwyke  3d.  a  day  for  his 
wages  since  Michaelmas  last,  if  he  be  not  yet  contented  thereof,  and 
henceforward  to  pay  him  that  daily  sum  so  long  as  he  shall  have  the 
office  of  constable  of  Okham  castle  co.  Roteland,  taking  from  time 
to  time  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  3  November  last  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  that  office  for  life  to  the  said  John,  being  chamberlain 
of  Roger  de  Bello  Campo  knight,  with  all  fees  and  profits  thereto 
belonging  and  3d.  a  day  for  wages  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid,  as  William 
de  Whappelode  had  the  same,  who  held  that  office  by  the  king's  grant 
and  with  the  king's  licence  granted  it  to  the  said  John. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Nov.  28.  To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  John  de  Pekkebrigge  knight  and  Margaret  his  wife  the  manor  of 
Ditton  Camoys  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Nicholas 
Loveyne  knight,  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's 
court  with  his  licence  the  said  Nicholas  at  his  death  held  that  manor 
for  life  jointly  with  Margaret  his  wife  likewise  deceased  by  gift  of 
John  late  bishop  of  Worcester  and  William  de  Chirchehulle  clerk, 
with  remainder  to  William  de  Pulteneye  knight  now  deceased  and 
Margaret  his  wife  yet  living  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  and  that 
the  same  is  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  rendering  to  the  king  one 
pair  of  gilded  spurs  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  fealty  of  the  said 
John,  who  has  taken  to  wife  the  said  Margaret  who  was  wife  of 
William  de  Pulteney. 

Nov.  18.  To  Gilbert  Culwen  escheator  in  Westmorland.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  John  de  Tyndale  the  moiety  of  a  messuage,  of  three  bovates  16  acres 
of  land  and  of  a  third  part  of  a  mill  in  Burgham  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  John  Cutberd  of  Burgham  and  by  reason  of  the 
nonage  of  Roger  son  of  Robert  de  Clyfford  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  John  Cutberd  at  his  death 
held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief,  but  held  the  premises  of  the 
said  Roger,  being  brother  and  heir  of  Robert  son  and  heir  of  the  said 
Robert  and  late  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  by  service  of  rendering 
3s.  a  year  to  the  said  Roger  to  cornage,  2s.  a  year  in  money  and 
3  quarters  3  bushels  of  oats  towards  the  puture  of  his  foresters  of 
Whynfell,  and  lOd.  a  year  towards  the  puture  of  his  bailiffs  in 
Westmorland  for  the  time  being,  and  that  John  de  Tyndale  son  of  Alice 
sister  of  John  Cutberd  is  his  cousin  and  next  heir  and  of  full  age  ; 
and  on  14  December  in  the  28th  year  of  the  reign  the  said  Roger's 
age  was  proved  before  Hugh  de  Louthre  then  escheator,  and  the 
king  took  his  homage,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his 
father's  lands  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  Robert  the  son,  who  died  within  age  in  the 
king's  wardship. 

Dec.  7.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Adam  Gaolere 

Westminster,  of  London,    Vincent    Fynch    of    Sussex,    Robert    de    Kyngeston    of 

Middlesex,    Robert   Bertelet   of   Dorset   and    William    Bastesford   of 

Sussex  to  set  free  Nicholas  Serveys  chaplain  from  Neugate  prison, 

although  lately  for  particular  causes  he  was  by  the  sheriffs  taken 


412 


u:\h\i:    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS 


M>  mLrane  5 — COtli . 


and  is  there  imprisoned  ;   as  the  said  Adam  and  the  otto  re,  whom  he 

ha-  found   in  chancery,   have  inainperned   under  a   pain  of  201.  for  his 
good  behaviour  toward  the  king  and  people. 

1  tee.  16.         1 1  der  to  the  sheriff  of  Sussex  to  cause  a  coroner  to  he  elected  instead 
unn-t«>r.  of  John  atte  Ifelle,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 


MEMBRANE    4. 

Sept.   ].").  To  the  bailiffs  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of  Canterbury.     Order, 

■aun-n>r.  under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  life  and  limbs  and  loss  of  the  liberties  of 
the  city,  to  desist  altogether  from  dissensions  and  brawls,  with  all 
their  might  causing  the  same  to  he  assuaged  and  reformed  ;  and  if 
they  may  not  so  lie  finally  pacified,  order  that  the  bailiffs  and  four  of 
the  beel  ami  most  worthy  of  the  commonalty  leaving  all  else  shall 
with  all  possible  speed  appear  before  the  king  and  council,  that  the 
king  may  there  take  order  for  establishing  peace  and  reforming  strife 
among  them  as  shall  seem  best  to  him  and  to  the  council,  and  in  the 
mean  time  to  take  such  order  among  themselves  that  all  may  rest 
in  peace  without  motion  or  sound  of  strife  until  by  the  king  and  council 
debate  be  had  and  order  be  taken  concerning  the  premises  ;  as  the 
king  has  particular  information  that  for  particular  causes  dissensions 
and  debates  are  newly  moved  in  the  said  city,  wherefrom  it  is  feared 
that  much  peril  and  hurt  will  arise  if  they  be  not  speedily  assuaged. 

Sept.  18.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Bristol,  and  the  collectors 
Westminster,  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  that  port.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
John  Barstaple,  Hugh  Fraunceys  and  Robert  Gardyner  merchants  of 
Bristol,  to  view  letters  of  coket  which  they  have  and,  if  assured  that 
the  hides  hereinafter  mentioned  were  counted  and  cocketed  at  the 
staples  of  Cork,  Lymeryk  and  Waterford,  and  the  custom  and  subsidy 
due  thereupon  were  paid  as  alleged,  to  suffer  them  to  lade  the  same 
in  that  port  and  without  let  to  take  them  over  to  the  staple  of  Calais 
without  a  second  payment ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  at  the  staples 
aforesaid  they  lately  freighted  24  lasts  of  hides  of  the  growth  of  Ireland 
in  a  ship  to  take  them  to  the  staple  of  Calais,  and  that  although  the 
same  were  there  counted  and  cocketed  and  the  custom  and  subsidy 
paid,  as  by  the  said  letters  may  appear,  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  and 
the  collectors  are  demanding  of  them  custom  and  subsidy  for  the  same 
as  if  they  were  not  before  cocketed  and  customed,  and  are  hindering 
them  from  taking  the  same  away,  for  thai  the  said  ship  was  driven  to 
Bristol  and  there  came  to  land,  and  because  of  the  weakness  thereof 
the}-  are  minded  to  put  the  same  in  another  ship,  praying  for  remedy  ; 
and  in  the  ordinances  for  holding  staples  of  wool  in  England  it  is 
contained  (among  other  things)  that  it  shall  be  lawful  for  men  of 
Ireland  and  Wales,  who  may  not  in  those  ports  deliver  wool,  woolfells 
and  hides  to  foreign  merchants,  to  come  therewith  to  any  staple  in 
England  after  the  same  be  cocketed  and  customed  in  Ireland  or  Wales, 
and  when  they  shah  come  thither  and  bring  letters  of  coket  witnessing 
that  it  is  so  done,  neither  they  nor  the  merchants  who  buy  the  same 
of  them  shall  a  second  time  pay  customs  or  subsidies.  Proviso  that 
no  hides  of  the  growth  of  England  be  taken  over  to  foreign  parts 
among  those  hides  by  colour  of  these  presents. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II. 


413 


1376. 


Membrane  4 — cont. 


Dec.  6.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains  of  the  exchequer.     Order, 

Westminster,  upon  the  petition  of  Thomas  de  Appelby  the  king's  receiver  and 
apprower  of  the  islands  of  Gernesey,  Serk  and  Aureney,  if  lawfully 
assured  by  inspection  of  the  rolls  of  the  controllers  of  the  said  islands 
and  by  oath  of  the  said  Thomas  that  there  are  no  profits  of  certain 
mills  there  and  of  certain  rents  in  his  time,  and  if  assured  that  by 
reason  of  burning  and  destruction  wrought  by  the  king's  enemies 
he  did  not  and  might  not  levy  such  profits  and  rents,  not  to  charge 
him  therewith  in  his  account,  but  to  discharge  and  acquit  him  of  the 
same  ;  as  he  has  shewn  the  king  that  by  the  said  enemies  coming 
of  times  thither  the  said  mills  are  burnt  and  the  said  rents  destroyed, 
and  are  now  come  to  the  king's  hand  in  decay,  so  that  he  may  not 
levy  profits  of  those  mills  or  the  said  rents  pertaining  to  the  king  of 
old  time,  but  that  the  treasurer  and  chamberlains,  considering  not 
this,  are  purposing  to  charge  the  said  Thomas  therewith  in  his  account 
at  the  exchequer  as  if  the  same  were  not  burnt  or  destroyed  as  they 
are,  and  as  if  he  might  levy  such  profits  and  rents  though  he  may  not, 
praying  for  remedy. 

Nov.  12.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.  Order,  upon 
Westminster,  the  petition  of  Nicholas  Potyn  the  king's  searcher  in  the  port  of  the 
city  of  London,  to  discharge  him  in  his  account  at  the  exchequer  of  a 
certain  pipe  with  two  bags  of  saffron  therein  contained  and  of  the  price 
thereof ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  he  lately  arrested  the  same  as  forfeit  to 
the  king's  use,  and  after  the  arrest  by  command  of  the  king's  then 
treasurer  delivered  the  same  to  Bartholomew  Myne  (now  deceased)  in 
order  that  he  might  answer  to  the  king  for  the  price  thereof,  and 
that  the  said  Bartholomew  wholly  received  the  same  of  him  ;  and 
John  Wiltshire  citizen  of  London,  who  has  taken  to  wife  Alice  who 
was  wife  of  the  said  Bartholomew  and  is  his  executor  it  is  said,  has 
acknowledged  in  chancery  that  the  same  was  by  the  said  Nicholas 
delivered  to  the  said  Bartholomew.  Proviso  that  answer  be  made 
for  the  said  pipe  and  saffron  or  for  the  price  thereof  by  the  said 
Bartholomew  or  his  executors. 

Dec.  12.         To  Richard  Pope  the  king's  searcher  in  the  river  of  Gravesend. 

Westminster.  Order  to  deliver  without  delay  to  the  treasurer  and  the  chamberlains 

to  the  lung's  use  431.  10s.  which  was  of  Lawrence  Van  Rothe  '  alyan,' 

and  was  by  the  searcher  arrested  as  forfeit  in  the  said  river.     It  is 

the  king's  will  that  the  searcher  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him. 

Dec.  10.  To  H.  bishop  of  Norwich,  proctor  of  Edmund  de  Arundell  knight. 
Westminster.  Prohibition  at  his  peril  to  draw  out  of  the  realm  or  elsewhere  save 
before  the  king  or  council  or  there  to  prosecute  a  cause  between  Richard 
earl  of  Arundell  and  the  said  Edmund,  or  to  do  or  attempt  aught  or 
cause  aught  to  be  done  or  attempted  contrary  to  an  accord  between 
the  parties,  unless  the  king  shall  send  other  order  touching  the  same  ; 
as  the  bishop  well  knows  how  that  the  said  carl  and  Edmund  before 
the  king  in  person  freely  offered  themselves  to  an  accord  touching 
the  cause,  quarrel,  dissensions,  strife  and  controversy  between  them 
pending,  being  before  the  king  mutually  sworn  to  keep  the  same, 
wherefore  it  is  not  reasonable,  nor  is  it  the  king's  will,  that  such  quarrel 
be  drawn  or  decided  save  before  the  king  and  council,  especially  seeing 
that  the  accord  was  offered  and  confirmed  by  their  oaths  before  the 
king. 


ill 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


,"i..  Membratu    i  -oont. 

To  Edmund  de  Arundel]  bright.  Like  prohibition  under  pain  of 
forfeiture;  m  the  Baid  Edmund  seel]  knows  eto.  (as  above,  mutatis 
mmtand 

\  To  the  sheriffs  of   London.     Order  to  deliver  a  messuage  in  the 

tminster.  pariah  of  St.  Benel  Shorhog  London,  lately  reoovered  by  the  king  in 
chancery  against  .John  Pecche  citizen  of  London.  toWilliamWyghtman 
the  bang's  Berjeant,  to  whom  on  i>  October  la^t  the  king  by  letters 
mii  granted  the  same  for  life,  with  the  issues  thereof  since  that 
date,  which  messuage  was  held  of  the  king  by  Thomas  Holbech  citizen 
and  oordwainer  of  London  and  Katherine  his  wife  to  them  and  the 
heirs  of  the  said  Thomas,  and  pertains  to  the  king  as  an  escheat  for 
that  the  said  Thomas  was  a  bastard  and  died  without  an  heir,  as  may 
appear  in  the  record  and  process  thereupon  had.  It  is  the  king's 
will  that  the  sheriffs  he  thereof  discharged  toward  him. 

1377. 
Jan.  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.     Order,  as  lawful  and  reasonable  is,  to 

kmmster.  compel  Giles  Daubeneye  and  Fulk  de  Pembrugge  Lords  of  the  manor 
of  Kempston  an. I  singular  their  tenants,  free  men  and  neifs,  to 
contribute  towards  the  expenses  of  the  knights  coming  for  the  commons 
of  Bedfordshire  to  the  last  parliament,  like  as  other  the  men  and 
tenants  of  the  commons  aforesaid  ;  as  the  commons  of  every  county 
ought  and  in  all  times  past  have  been  used  so  to  contribute,  and  now 
the  king  is  informed  that  the  said  Giles  and  Fulk  do  refuse  so  to  do, 
pretending  that  they  and  their  tenants  of  the  said  manor,  free  and 
neif,  ought  to  be  quit  of  such  contribution,  though  they  are  not, 
unlawfully  hindering  their  said  tenants  from  contributing  as  they 
ought  to  do  and  troubling  them  ;  and  the  king  takes  note  that  all 
lords  of  manors  and  towns,  not  being  barons  nor  coming  to  parliament 
at  the  king's  command  nor  being  used  lawfully  so  to  do,  and  all  their 
free  tenants  and  neifs  ought  to  contribute  to  such  expenses,  and  the 
said  Giles  and  Fulk  are  not  barons,  nor  came  to  the  last  parliament 
at  the  king's  command,  as  he  is  well  assured. 
[Foedera.] 


Jan.  24. 
Westminster. 


1376. 

Dec.  7. 
Westminster. 


To  Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Order  to  cause  William  son  of  William  son  of  Christina  Cubbel  sister 
of  William  Forde  father  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  Prentys,  being 
cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  Joan  a  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  her 
lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  death  and  by  reason  of  his 
nonage  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king 
has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [31285.] 

To  Ralph  Basset  of  Drayton  knight.  Writ  de  intendendo,  directing 
him  from  16  September  last  to  pay  to  John  de  Beverle  the  king's 
esquire  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  a  yearly  farm 
of  961.  3s.  Ad.  which  the  said  Ralph  is  bound  to  render  to  the  king  for 
the  manors  of  Cherteleye  co.  Stafford  and  Bukebroke  co.  Norhampton 
during  the  term  for  which  the  wardship  of  the  same  is  committed 
to  him,  taking  the  said  John's  acquittance  ;  as  lately  by  letters  patent 
the  king  committed  to  the  said  Ralph  the  wardship  of  those  manors, 
which  were  held  for  life  by  Elizabeth  who  was  wife  of  Reynold  de 
Cobham  knight  as  jointly  enfeoffed  with  John  de  Ferrers  knight 
sometime  her  husband,  and  by  her  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II. 


415 


1376.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

of  Robert  son  and  heir  of  the  said  John  de  Ferrers  and  Elizabeth  are 
in  the  king's  hand,  with  the  issues  thereof,  until  the  lawful  age  of  the 
said  heir,  rendering  at  the  exchequer  961.  3s.  4d.  yearly  at  the  said 
terms  ;  and  on  16  September  last  the  king  of  his  favour  granted  by 
letters  patent  to  his  said  esquire  the  wardship  of  all  the  lands  of  John 
de  Ferrers  which  are  in  his  hand  with  all  things  thereto  belonging 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  rendering  nought  to  the  king, 
but  saving  to  the  farmers  of  such  lands  their  terms  whereby  they  took 
the  same  to  farm,  who  should  pay  the  said  esquire  from  time  to  time 
so  long  as  he  should  have  that  wardship  the  farms  which  they  are 
bound  yearly  to  render  to  the  king. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  3. 

Sept.  11.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Great  Jernemuth.  Strict  order  to  cause 
Westminster,  proclamation  to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  of  the 
men  of  that  town  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition,  under  peril  of 
dire  punishment  to  be  by  the  king  and  council  appointed,  and  under 
pain  of  forfeiture  of  the  sums  contained  in  the  bonds  hereinafter 
mentioned,  to  make  unlawful  assemblies  or  commit  trespasses,  hurts, 
grievances,  excesses  or  other  things  which  may  tend  to  a  breach  or 
disturbance  of  the  peace  or  to  tumult  or  terror  of  the  people  there 
or  to  impair  the  safety  of  the  town,  but  ordering  every  man  under  the 
same  peril  and  pain  henceforward  to  behave  peaceably  and  quietly 
toward  the  king  and  people,  and  order  when  this  command  shall  be 
executed  to  certify  under  their  seals  in  chancery  without  delay  what 
they  have  done,  sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  the  king  was  lately 
informed  that  great  number  of  men  of  that  town  were  banded  together 
to  make  unlawful  assemblies  and  do  other  things  to  the  disturbance 
of  the  peace,  and  for  the  repose  of  the  people  willing  to  provide  a 
remedy  for  the  hurt  which  might  thereby  happen,  the  king  by  writ 
ordered  the  bailiffs  in  such  manner  as  should  to  them  seem  best  to 
compel  all  and  singular  the  residents  in  that  town  of  whom  suspicion 
was  had  to  find  security  for  their  good  behaviour,  and  to  commit 
to  prison  those  who  refused  so  to  do,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody 
until  they  would  find  such  security,  certifying  in  chancery  the  security 
so  taken  ;  and  although  by  virtue  of  that  command  the  bailiffs  took 
security  of  great  number  of  the  town  by  divers  bonds  in  great  sums, 
and  returned  the  same  in  chancery  with  the  said  bonds,  great  number 
of  the  said  men,  fearing  neither  the  king's  power  nor  the  forfeiture 
of  the  sums  therein  contained,  are  purposing  to  make  unlawful 
assemblies  and  do  other  hurtful  things  in  breach  of  the  peace  and  to 
the  terror  of  the  people  of  that  town,  and  the  king  will  not  endure  such 
risk  and  damage. 

Sept.  23.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Margaret  who 
Westminster,  was  wife  of  Henry  Picard,  if  the  farm  hereinafter  mentioned  is  inarrear 
as  by  the  sheriffs  certified,  of  the  goods  and  chattels  which  were  of 
Richard  Lyons  citizen  of  London  which  are  in  the  cellars  and  tenements 
to  him  demised  by  her  to  pay  her  by  indenture  the  arrears  for  his  time 
up  to  16  June  last,  namely  for  Christmas  and  Easter  terms  last  ;  as 
her  petition  shews  that  she  lately  demised  to  farm  to  the  said  Richard 
a  '  crane  '  situate  upon  the  river  Thames  and  ten  cellars  and  another 
tenement  in  the  Vintry  London  rendering  yearly  to  her  at  the  terms 


116 


I   \u:\l>\i:    01    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


]  1 7<i.  Membra/nt  3 — cont. 

usual  in  the  city  <>f  LomdOD  20  markfl  tot  tin-  said  '  crane,'  the  (juay 
(kaio)  and  seven  cellars,  and  18  markfl  00.  Sd.  for  three,  cellars  and  the 
said  tenement,  that  for  particular  causes  the  premises  are  among  other 
tenements  <>f  the  Baid  Richard  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  and  that 

the  farm  is  now  in  ai  rear,  praying  for  payment  ;  and  it  is  by  the  sheriffs 
(tilled  in  chancery  at  the  king's  command  that  of  the  said  farm  of 
20  marks  a  year  66*.  Sd.  is  now  in  arrear  to  the  said  Margaret  for 
Midsummer  term  la^t.  of  the  farm  of  18  marks  6s.  8d.  there  is  in  arrear 
<i/.  16*.  for  the  three  cellars,  namely  for  Christmas,  Easter  and 
Midsummer  terms  la^t,  and  for  the  said  tenement  33.9.  4d.  for  Easter 
and  Midsummer  terms  ;  and  the  king  would  shew  special  favour  to 
the  said  Margaret  in  regard  to  such  arrears  due  before  the  date 
aforesaid,  when  the  premises  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand. 

Sept.  L'">  To  John  atte  Hale  escheator  in  Somerset  and  Dorset.     Order  to 

Westminster,  cause  Richard  Saymour,  brother  and  heir  of  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of 
Nicholas  Saymour  knight  tenant  in  chief,  to  have  seisin  of  his  said 
father's  lands  which  came  to  the  king's  hands  by  his  death  and  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  Nicholas  the  son,  who  lately  died  within  age 
and  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  so  are  in  the  king's  hand;  as  the  said 
Richard  has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has 
taken  his  fealty,  and  respited  his  homage  until  the  octaves  of  St. 
Hilary  next.  By  the  great  council. 

The  like  {sic)  to  the  following  : 

John  Mattesford  escheator  in  Devon. 
Nicholas  de  Somerton  escheator  in  Wiltesir. 
Thomas  de  Hleston  escheator  in  Middlesex. 


Sept.  26.         Mandate  to  Master  John  de  Bolton  chamberlain  of  Berewick  upon 

Westminster.  Twede  to  deliver  to  the  said  Richard  all  lands  in  Scotland  whereof  the 

said  Nicholas  Saymour  at  his  death  was  seised  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 

and  which  came  as  aforesaid  to  the  king's  hands  and  are  yet  in  his 

hand.  By  the  great  council. 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton.  Order  to 
deliver  by  indenture  to  the  king's  clerk  Master  John  Gutier  dean  of 
Segobia  40Z.  which  was  of  John  Piers  of  Quexo  in  Spain  and  were  by 
the  mayor  and  bailiffs  arrested  in  the  hands  of  John  atte  Bere  burgess 
of  Suthampton,  to  keep  to  the  use  of  John  Piers  in  case  he  shall  return 
to  the  king's  service  in  England  ;  as  lately  he  came  to  England,  there 
to  abide  in  the  king's  allegiance,  but  is  now  taken  at  sea  by  the  king's 
Spanish  enemies,  and  the  said  money  is  part  of  the  price  of  a  ship  of 
his  and  is  arrested  as  aforesaid,  as  the  mayor  has  certified  the  king's 
son  John  duke  of  Lancastre.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  if  the  said 
John  Piers  be  an  adherent  of  the  king's  enemies  and  return  not  again 
to  his  service,  the  said  dean  shall  have  that  money  of  the  king's  favour 
and  gift  as  forfeit  by  reason  of  the  owner's  rebellion,  and  that  the 
mayor  and  bailiffs  be  thereof  discharged  toward  the  king. 

By  K.  upon  information  of  the  said  duke. 

Sept.  10.         To  the  sheriff  and  constable  of  Pembroke  in  Wales.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  Philip  Douston   and  Owyn   ap  Waryn  merchants   of 

Wales,  if  the  facts  are  as  stated,  to  take  of  them  security  that  they 

shall  make  prompt  restitution  of  80/.  to  the  men  of  Garraut  and  Ildebas 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II.  417 


1376.  Membrane  3 — cont. 

in  Brittany  in  case  the  said  Philip  and  Owyn  shall  hereafter  be 
contented  for  their  merchandise  there  taken  from  them,  and  to  deliver 
to  them  that  sum  in  part  payment  for  the  same,  and  order  to  certify 
under  seal  in  chancery  if  there  be  any  cause  wherefore  that  ought 
not  to  be  done  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  at  Garraut  and  Ildebas 
contrary  to  the  truce  made  between  the  king  and  his  adversary  of 
France  the  said  merchants  with  wine,  honey  and  other  their  merchandise 
to  the  value  of  240Z.  were  by  assent  of  the  men  of  those  places  taken 
in  hostile  manner  and  brought  to  Rywes  castle,  and  were  there  long 
time  imprisoned  until  by  good  luck  they  escaped,  that  before  the  said 
sheriff  and  constable  in  the  king's  court  of  '  pipoudres '  the  said 
merchants  so  far  prosecuted  their  complaint  touching  those  wrongs 
against  the  said  men  for  aiding  and  abetting  therein  that  by  lawful 
process  they  recovered  against  them  1671.,  and  that  801.  thereof  there 
left  by  the  men  of  Brittany  is  by  the  sheriff  and  constable  now  arrested, 
whereby  the  said  merchants  are  hindered  from  having  execution, 
praying  the  king's  aid. 

July  16.  To  the  dean  and  chapter  of  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London,  late 
Westminster,  guardians  of  the  bishopric  of  London  when  last  void  and  in  the  king's 
hand.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Simon  archbishop  of  Canterbury 
and  late  bishop  of  London,  to  suffer  him  to  have  the  crop  of  all  lands 
of  the  said  bishopric  by  him  sown  while  bishop  of  London,  and  the 
disposal  thereof,  or  to  see  that  he  be  reasonably  contented  for  the 
same  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  before  his  translation  to  the  see  of 
Canterbury  he  caused  certain  lands  of  the  said  bishopric  to  be  sown 
with  divers  kinds  of  corn,  but  that  the  dean  and  chapter  have 
unlawfully  hindered  him  from  taking  the  crop  thereof  for  that  the 
keeping  of  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  during  the  vacancy 
thereof  was  in  their  hands,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and 
the  king  takes  note  that  the  crop  of  such  lands  ought  to  pertain  to 
him  and  to  none  other. 

Sept.  11.  To  the  receiver  of  Glamorgan  and  Morganou  in  Wales.  Order  of 
Westminster,  the  issues  of  the  castles,  boroughs  and  lordships  there  which  are  in  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Edward  lc  Despenser  knight  tenant  in 
chief  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  to  pay  to  the  sheriffs, 
constables  and  other  ministers  and  officers  in  those  parts  the  arrears 
since  19  March  last  of  1311.  14s.  6d.  which  in  the  said  Edward's  time 
was  paid  them  for  their  fees  and  wages  it  is  said,  and  to  Richard  Story 
the  arrears  since  that  date  of  100  marks  yearly,  and  henceforward  from 
time  to  time  to  pay  to  them  the  said  fees  and  wages  and  to  the  said 
Richard  the  said  yearly  sum  so  long  as  he  shall  be  keeper  and  overseer 
of  the  said  castles  etc.,  taking  their  several  acquittances  for  such 
payments  ;  as  on  that  day  the  king  by  Letters  patent  appointed  the' 
said  Richard  keeper  and  overseer  of  all  and  singular  the  said  castles  etc. 
until  the  lawful  age  of  the  said  heir,  granting  him  full  power  to  provide 
for  the  good  and  safe  governance  of  those  parts,  and  to  make  sheriffs, 
constables  etc.  as  used  there  to  be  done,  except  a  receiver  who  shall 
be  specially  appointed  by  the  king  and  council,  and  power  to  remove 
the  said  officers  and  new  make  others  in  their  room  as  need  should  be 
and  as  should  seem  to  be  for  the  king's  advantage,  willing  that 
for  their  wages  and  fees  the  said  sum  should  be  paid  at  the  exchequer 

w  i    1 1824  cb  27 


hh 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Membrtmt  8 — comi. 

of   K.  i.lyf.   and    LOO   marks  ;l   year  to   the  said    Kiehard   so   Long  as  ho 

should  be  keeper  and  overseer  there  f<>i'  ■  reward  of  his  toil  and  for 
his  expeni 

pt.  26.        To  Thomas  de  Qleston  esoheator  in  Kent.    Order  to  keep  in  tho 
tminater.  kind's  hand  the  lands  which  John  de  Garton  of  Erehethe  citizen  of 

London  tenant  in  ohief  held  in  chief  at  his  death,  if  any,  hut  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  the  lands  held  in 
1  gavelkynde '  which  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death, 
delivering  to  John  his  son  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
Learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  esoheator,  that  tho  deceased 
at  his  death  held  by  the  courtesy  of  England  a  messuage,  109  acres  of 
land,  l'15  am-  of  meadow  and  10  acres  of  wood  in  Erehethe  in 
elkynde  '  of  Edmund  earl  of  March  of  the  heritage  of  Margaret 
his  first  wife,  and  26  acres  of  land,  4  acres  of  meadow  and  15s.  4rf. 
of  rent  in  that  town  likewise  of  her  heritage  in  'gavelkynde'  of 
Thomas  Saynt  Johan  knight,  and  that  the  said  John,  son  of  the 
deceased  and  of  the  said  Margaret,  is  their  next  heir  and  of  the  age  of 
eight  years  and  upwards. 

Sept.  10.  To  the  justice  of  Cestre  or  his  representative.  Order,  if  a  liberty 
Westminster,  or  custom  of  the  court  of  Cestre  called  '  avoerie  '  used  not  heretofore 
lawfully  to  be  allowed  or  to  have  place  in  a  plea  of  debt,  to  shew  John 
Toftes,  John  Poumfreyt  and  John  More  merchants  full  and  speedy 
justice  touching  their  complaint,  the  submission  or  allegation  of  John 
Ratoun  the  younger  of  Preston  co.  Lancaster  the  defendant  notwith- 
standing ;  as  by  complaint  of  the  said  merchants  it  is  shewn  the  king 
that  they  lately  impleaded  the  defendant  in  the  said  court  for  a  certain 
debt,  that  they  so  far  prosecuted  their  suit  that  the  defendant  was 
attached  to  answer  them,  and  that  he  scheming  to  hinder  them  from  their 
suit  submitted  himself  to  the  liberty  or  custom  aforesaid,  wherefore 
they  are  unduly  wearied  of  their  suit,  and  have  prayed  the  king's  aid, 
inasmuch  as  the  said  liberty  or  custom  used  to  have  place  in  pleas  of 
trespass  and  not  of  debt  or  account,  nor  was  ever  allowed  therein. 


Dec.  4. 

Havering 
manor. 


Membrane  2. 

To  Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Cambridgeshire.  Order  to  deliver 
to  John  Knyvet  knight  and  Eleanor  his  wife  the  manor  and  advowson 
of  Bokesworth  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William 
de  Huntyngfeld  knight,  together  with  the  issues  taken  of  the  said 
manor  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator, 
that  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  with  his  licence  the  said  William 
at  his  deatli  held  the  said  manor  and  advowson  for  life  in  chief  by 
knight  service  by  gift  of  William  de  Spaigne  of  St.  Botolph  and  others, 
with  remainder  to  the  said  John  and  Eleanor  and  to  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the  said  John's  fealty,  and  has  respited 
his  homage  until  the  Purification  next.  By  p.s.  [31213.] 

Sept.  30.  To  John  de  Ipre  farmer  of  the  castle  and  lands  of  Morende  and 
Westminster.  Yardele  Gobion  co.  Norhampton,  or  to  his  representative.  Order, 
upon  the  petition  of  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk,  to  pay 
the  said  earl  the  arrears  of  the  rent  hereinafter  mentioned  from 
the  time  he  was  lord  of  Pottercspirie,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  the 
same  every  year  at  the  terms  hereinafter  mentioned  so  long  as  the 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  419 


1376.  Membrane  2 — cord. 

said  castle  and  lands  shall  be  in  the  said  John's  keeping  ;   as  the  said 

earl  has  shewn  the  king  that  divers  parcels  of  certain  lands  at  the 

Morende  and  Yardcle  Gobion  lately  acquired  by  the  king  of  certain 

persons  and  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  thereof,  are  within  the  bounds 

of  the  earl's  manor  of  Potterispyrye,  and  were  ever  heretofore  held 

of  Thomas  earl  of  Warrewyk  his  father  and  of  other  his  ancestors 

by  certain  rents  and  services,  namely  the  site  of  Morende  castle  by 

the  sendee  of  rendering  7 \d.  a  year,  4  acres  of  land  by  the  castle  ditch 

by  the  service  of  rendering  V2d.  a  year,  2  acres  of  land  by  the  castle 

which  John  in  le  More  used  to  hold  by  the  service  of  rendering  9d.  a 

year,  and  a  water  mill  called  '  Yardele  milne  '  with  two  parcels  of 

meadow  adjoining  by  the  service  of  rendering  30s.  a  year  at  the  terms 

of  St.  Andrew,  the  Annunciation  and  St.  Peter's  Chains  and  lib.  pepper 

at  Christmas,  praying  that  the  king  would  content  him  of  the  said 

rents  and  the  arrears  thereof,  as  the  same  are  in  arrear  since  the  premises 

came  to  the  king's  hands  ;    and  willing  to  be  fully  certified  thereupon 

the  king  ordered  John  Camels  the  escheator  in  presence  of  the  said 

farmer   or   of   his   representative   to   make   inquisition   touching    the 

circumstances,  and  by  inquisition  by  him  taken  accordingly  in  presence 

of  John  Vise  representative  of  the  said  farmer  it  is  found  that  divers 

parcels  of  lands  at  the  Morende  and  Yardele  Gobion  lately  acquired 

by  the  king  arc  within  the  bounds  of  the  earl's    said  manor  and  were 

heretofore  held  of  the  earl's  said  father  and  other  his  ancestors  by 

the  rents  and  services  aforesaid,  that  all  services  and  customs  thereof 

are  in  arrear  from  the  time  they  came  to  the  king's  hands  until  now, 

that  the  said  parcels  are  held  of  the  now  earl,  and  used  to  be  held 

of  his  ancestors  by  those  rents,  and  that  the  late  earl  and  other  his 

ancestors  peaceably  had  and  took  the  same  by  virtue  of  the  tenure 

aforesaid  until  the  premises  came  to  the  king's  hands  ;   and  the  king's 

Serjeants  being  summoned  before  him  in  chancery  could  say  nought 

to  the  purpose  wherefore  the  now  earl  ought  not  to  have  the  said 

rent  and  the  arrears  thereof  from  the  time  he  became  lord  of  the 

said  manor. 

Dec.  10.  To  John  Francisci  merchant  of  Pistoia  and  Martin  his  fellow, 
Westminster.  Augustine  Boneton  of  Luca  merchant  dwelling  in  the  city  of  London 
and  Roger  de  Morton  merchant  and  citizen  of  York.  Licence  to  make 
letters  of  exchange  to  their  fellows  in  foreign  parts  for  4,000/.  there 
payable  to  the  papal  chamber  on  behalf  of  Arnald  Guarnerius  nuncio 
and  collector  of  the  said  chamber  in  England. 

Nov.  18.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Sussex.  Order  in  presence  of 
Westminster,  the  heirs  of  Andrew  Peverell  knight  or  their  attorneys,  if  being  warned 
they  will  attend,  to  make  a  partition  into  two  equal  parts  of  the  rent 
and  third  part  hereinafter  mentioned,  and  to  cause  Edmund  fitz 
Herberd  knight  and  John  Brocas  to  have  seisin  of  their  respective 
purparties  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  since  the  death  of 
Katherinc  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Andrew,  sending  the  partition 
under  seal  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery  ;  as  the  king  has  Learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Katherine  at  her 
death  held  in  dower  a  third  part  of  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of 
Blachyngton  with  the  third  turn  of  the  advowson  of  the  church,  a 
third  part  of  the  manor  of  Ryppe,  2s.  Ojd.  of  rent  and  a  third  part 
of  100  acres  of  land  called  Sharyngton  and  of  8  acres  of  meadow  in 


VLENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


I  '.7i>.  Mi  mbratu   -     coni, 

S  Imeston,  a  third  pari  of  *<>  aoree  of  land  in  Excete,  \<l.  of  renl    and 
third  pari  of  100  of  land  in  Hethefeld  and  of  a  park  there, 

and   a    third    part    of  a    toft.    IIMI  acres  of  land   and   '.)  acres  of   meadow 

in  Hallond  and  Hanefeld  of  others  than  the  king  of  the  heritage  of  the 

-aid    Edmund    being  son  of  Reynold  sou  of   Lucy  one  sister  of  (he 

id  Andrew,  and  of  the  said  John,  being  son  of  Margarel  daughter 

of   Alice   his   other  sifter,   the   cousins   and    heirs  of   the   said    Andrew; 

and  on  ."lit  March  in  the  pith  year  of  his  reign  the  king  look  their 
homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded  livery  to  he  given  them  of  the 
lands   which   the  .-aid   Andrew    held    in   chief. 

Nov.  8.  To  the  sheriffs  and  coroner  of   Loudon.      Order,  if  the  facts  arc  as 

Westminster,  stated,  to  proceed  to  take  an  assize  of  mart  d' ancestor  arraigned  by 
Adam  Louekyn  '  grocer '  and  Catherine  his  wife  against  William 
Acton  and  Thomas  Kaysho  parson  of  St.  Michael  Bassynghawe 
concerning  two  messuages  and  two  shops  in  the  parishes  of  St.  Nicholas 
Colde  Abbeye  and  St.  Mary  Mounthenhaut  London,  and  further  to 
rendering  of  judgment,  doing  speedy  justice  to  the  parties  according 
to  Law  and  the  custom  of  the  city  of  London;  as  learning  that  the 
said  assize  was  without  the  king's  writ  arraigned  according  to  the 
custom  of  the  said  city  concerning  the  seisin  of  Robert  de  Ely  sometime 
citizen  of  London,  father  of  the  said  Kathcrine  whose  heir  she  is,  at 
the  suit  of  the  dean  and  chapter  of  his  free  chapel  of  St.  Martin  le 
Grand  London,  averring  that  for  particular  causes  set  forth  in  his 
court  hurt  and  prejudice  to  them  might  arise  if  proceeding  were  taken 
in  that  assize,  the  king  lately  caused  the  same  to  be  adjourned  ;  and 
although  after  the  king  ordered  them  to  proceed  to  take  the  same 
provided  they  should  not  proceed  to  rendering  of  judgment  without 
advising  him,  the  sheriiYs  and  coroner  have  hitherto  deferred  so  to  do, 
wherefore  petition  is  made  to  the  king  that  further  proceeding  be 
taken   therein  and  judgment  rendered. 

Nov.  20.  To  David  Craddok  chamberlain  in  North  Wales.  Order  to  deliver 
ii  ivering  to  Richard  son  and  heir  of  Edward  prince  of  Wales  duke  of  Cornwall 
atte  Bower.  ami  (>arj  ()f  (Vstre  all  lands  of  the  said  Edward  which  are  not  assigned 
in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  his  wife,  together  with  the  honours, 
lordships,  castles,  cities,  boroughs,  towns,  manors,  members,  hamlets, 
lands,  knights'  h-c^  and  advowsons  there  within  the  principality  and 
without  (torn  infrincecis  quam  aliis),  the  liberties  and  free  customs, 
reserving  to  the  king  the  fees  of  lords  of  the  march  of  Wales  who  of 
old  time  were  tenants  of  the  crown,  and  the  advowson  of  the  cathedral 
church  of  St.  Davids  which  of  old  pertained  to  the  crown,  and 
to  deliver  to  the  said  Richard  the  issues  and  profits  whatsoever  thereof 
arising  since  the  said  Edward's  death  which  the  king  has  given  to  him, 
saving  to  the  said  Joan  her  reasonable  dower  ;  as  with  the  counsel 
and  consent  of  the  prelates,  dukes,  earls  and  barons  the  king  of  his 
favour  has  created  the  said  Richard  prince  of  Wales,  duke  of  Cornwall 
and  earl  of  Cestre,  and  by  letters  patent  has  given  to  him  and  to  his 
heirs  the  kings  of  England  as  well  two  thirds  of  all  the  said  principality 
in  North  Wales,  West  Wales  and  South  Wales  as  two  thirds  of  the 
duchy  of  Cornwall  and  of  the  county  of  Cestre,  the  whole  county 
of  Flynt,  and  two  thirds  of  all  other  lands  in  England  as  well  of  those 
belonging  to  the  said  duchy  as  of  others  whatsoever  which  were  of 
the  said  Edward,  together  with  the  reversion  of  the  third  part  of  the 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  421 


1376.  Membrane  2 — coat. 

said  principality,  duchy,  county  and  lands  which  the  said  Joan  his 
mother  holds  in  dower  hy  assignment  of  the  king,  and  with  all  other 
the  honours,  castles  etc.  and  divers  liberties  and  free  customs  therein 
specified  and  all  other  tilings  therein  helonging  as  well  to  the 
principality,  duchy  and  county  aforesaid  as  to  the  king,  as  fully  as 
the  said  Edward  his  father  in  his  life  time  held  the  same,  saving  to 
the  said  Joan  as  well  the  dower  previously  assigned  to  her  by  the 
king  as  dower  to  be  assigned  her  of  the  said  fees  and  advowsons,  and 
reserving  to  the  king  the  fees  and  advowson  aforesaid.  It  is  the  king's 
will  that  the  escheator  be  thereof  discharged  toward  him.  By  K. 

[Fcedera.] 

The  like  to  Hugh  le  Yonge  chamberlain  in  South  Wales. 
The  like  to  the  following,  but  without  the  clause  of  reservation  to 
the  king  : 

Thomas  Illeston  escheator  in  Sussex. 

Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  Berkshire.  By  K. 

Dec.  12.  John  Parker  of  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamsliire. 

Havering  William  Flam vy lie  knight  escheator  in  Warwickshire.  By  K. 

atte  Bower.         [Ibid.] 

To  John  Wodehous  chamberlain  of  Cestre.  Like  order  in  regard 
to  all  the  lands  of  the  said  prince  in  the  county  of  Cestre  not  assigned 
in  dower  to  the  said  Joan,  and  the  whole  county  of  Flynt ;  but  without 
the  clause  of  reservation  to  the  king.  By  K. 

[Ibid.] 

Membrane  l. 

To  Richard  Scrjeaux  steward  of  all  the  lands  and  lordships  in  Cornwall 
and  Devon  which  were  of  Edward  prince  of  Wales  duke  of  Cornwall 
and  earl  of  Cestre,  and  to  Ralph  Trenewyth  receiver  there  specially 
appointed  by  the  king.     Order  to  deliver  or  command  livery  to  be 
given  to  Richard  son  and  heir  of  Edward  prince  of  Wales  duke  of 
Cornwall  and  earl  of  Cestre  of  all  lands  of  his  said  father  in  those 
counties  not  assigned  in  dower  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  the  said  Edward , 
as  well  those  pertaining  to  the  said  duchy  as  others  whatsoever,  with 
the  honours,  lordships,  castles  etc.,  suffering    him  to  have,  hold  and 
take  the  king's  prises  and  customs  of  wines  in  Cornwall  and  the  river 
of  Sutton  co.  Devon,  all  profits  of  the  king's  ports  in  Cornwall  to  the 
king  belonging  with  wreck  of  the  sea  in  all  that  county,  the  profits 
and  emoluments  of  county  courts  holden  in  that  county  and  of  the 
hundreds  and  hundred  courts  there  to  the  king  belonging,  the  stannaries 
as  well  in  Cornwall  as  in  Devon  with  the  stampage  and  all  other  profits 
thereof  arising,   the   profits   and    perquisites   of   the   stannary   courts 
and  of  mines  there,  the  castle  of  Exeter,  and  the  yearly  farm  of  20/. 
of  the  city  of  Exeter,  delivering  to  him  the  issues  and  profits  arising 
since  the  said  Edward's  death  of  two  thirds  of  deceased's  lands  which 
the  king  has  given  him,  saving  to  the  said  Joan  her  reasonable  dower 
and  to  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury  and  to  his  heirs  male 
200  marks  yearly  to  be  taken  of  the  issues  of  the  stampage  in  Cornwall 
granted  by  the  king  to  William   his  father  late  earl  of  Salisbury  and 
to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  until  provision  shall  elsewhere  be  made 
them  of  2nd  marks  a  year ;   as  of  his  favour  the  king  with  the  counsel 
and  consent  of  the  prelates,  dukes,  earls  and  barons  Lately  by  letters 
patent  etc.  (as  above),  and  gave  the  said  Richard  his  prises  and  customs 


122  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  KOLLS. 


l",7i'>.  Membrane  1 — tout, 

ol  wines  in  Cornwall,  all  profits  of  the  ports  there  to  the  king  belonging, 
wreck  of  the  sea  in  all  Cornwall  as  well  of  whale,  'storgon  '  and  other 
fish   belonging   to   the   kins  by   reason  of  his  prerogative  as  other 

whatsoever,  the  profits  ami  emoluments  aforesaid,  the  said  stannaries 

with  the  Btampage  and  all  issues  and  profits  thereof  arising,  the  said 

profits  and  perquisites  of  courts  and  mines,  the  said  castle  and  yearly 
farm,  and  the  prises  and  customs  of  wines  in  the  said  river,  saving 
to  the  said  Joan  her  dower  by  the  king  B£  igned  or  to  be  assigned. 
It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  -aid  steward  and  receiver  bo  thereof 
discharged  toward  him. 

1.177. 

I  ni.  14.         To  John  Bygod  escheator  in  Yorkshire.     Order  to  deliver  to  Peter 

>ti  and  heir  of  Thomas  del  Hay  of  Spaldyngton,  tenant  by  knight 
rvioe  of  the  heir  of  William  baron  of  Grcystok  tenant  in  cbief  being 
lately  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  all  the  lands  which  the 
said  Thomas  held  of  the  said  heir  and  which  were  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  :  as  the  said  Peter  proved  his  age  before  Gilbert 
de  Culweu  late  escheator,  and  the  age  of  Ralph  son  and  heir  of  the 
said  baron  being  proved,  the  king  lately  took  his  homage  and  fealty, 
and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

Jan.  13.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  not  to  do  nor  so  far 
Westminster,  as  in  them  lies  to  suffer  wrong,  trouble,  hurt,  violence  or  grievance 
to  be  done  to  the  merchants  of  Luca,  Genoa,  Venice,  Milan,  Siena 
(Scncnsibus)  or  other  merchants  of  Italy  or  to  any  of  them  in  their 
persons,  goods  or  property,  but  to  safe  guard  and  honourably  entreat 
them  being  under  the  king's  protection  ;  as  lately  for  particular 
causes,  and  because  of  particular  processes  issuing  from  the  court  of 
Home  against  certain  men  of  Florence  it  is  said  and  now  newly 
published  in  England,  the  king  caused  all  those  men  comprised 
therein  who  were  found  in  the  city  of  London  to  be  by  the 
mayor  and  sheriffs  arrested  and  kept  in  prison  in  safe  custody  in 
the  Tower  of  London,  and  their  goods  and  merchandise  whatsoever 
to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand,  and  the  king  will  cause  the  said 
men  to  be  so  arrested  from  time  to  time  when  they  shall  come  to 
England  ;  and  moreover  the  king  has  learned  that  great  number  of 
other  merchants  of  Italy,  namely  as  well  men  of  Genoa,  Siena,  Venice, 
Luca  and  Milan  as  others,  [are]  making  their  abode  continually  in  the 
city  of  London  not  being  comprised  in  the  said  processes,  to  whom 
also  by  colour  thereof  grievous  hurt  and  prejudice  might  easily  arise  ; 
and  because  it  appears  to  the  council,  after  viewing  and  examining 
the  said  process,  that  no  other  merchants  besides  the  said  men  of 
Florence  are  therein  contained,  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  all  other 
foreign  merchants  in  the  realm  shall  be  honourably  entreated  and 
not  unduly  grieved,  the  king  has  taken  under  his  special  protection 
the  merchants  of  Luca,  Siena,  Genoa,  Venice  and  Milan  whatsoever, 
and  others  not  comprised  in  the  said  processes,  their  goods  and 
merchandise. 

Jan.  7.  To  W.  bishop  of  Winchester.     Notice  that  whereas  certain  articles 

Westminster,  were  lately  set  forth  before  the  king  and  council  containing  (among 

other   things)   divers   alleged  grievances   and   extortions   against   the 

king  and  people  committed  by  the  said  bishop  while  he  was  with  the 

king  in  divers  offices  and  was  of  his  council,  whereupon  a  cause  was 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II. 


423 


1377. 


Jan.  12. 

Westminster. 


Jan.  8. 

Havering 

atte  Bower. 


1376. 

Dec.  7. 
Westminster. 


Membrane  1 — cent. 

lately  heard  at  Westminster  against  him  before  certain  prelates  and 
other  great  men  of  the  realm  by  the  king  specially  deputed  for  the 
purpose,  and  in  great  part  the  said  cause  remains  yet  to  plead,  and 
whereas  the  king  gave  him  a  day  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  next 
there  to  answer  touching  the  premises,  the  king  for  particular  causes 
him  moving  will  postpone  the  said  day  until  further  order  ;  and 
mandate  not  to  repair  to  Westminster  for  the  cause  aforesaid  until 
further  order.  By  K. 

[Foedera.] 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
of  Thomas  de  Reresby  knight,  who  has  his  abode  in  the  uttermost 
parts  of  the  county  so  that  he  may  not  have  leisure  to  exercise  the 
office  of  coroner  as  the  king  has  learned. 

To  the  prior  of  the  alien  priory  of  Ware,  or  the  farmer  thereof  for  the 
time  being.  Order  of  the  farm  of  the  priory  so  long  as  the  same 
shall  be  in  the  king's  hand  to  pay  to  John  de  Ipre  knight  steward 
of  the  king's  household  200  marks  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  of  his  favour  the  king 
by  letters  patent  has  granted  to  the  said  John  for  his  good  service 
200  marks  a  year  to  be  taken  of  the  farm  of  the  said  priory,  which  is 
in  his  hand  by  reason  of  the  war  with  France,  by  the  hands  of  the 
prior  or  other  farmer  thereof  so  long  as  the  same  shall  be  in  the  king's 
hand  during  the  said  John's  life  or  until  the  king  shall  take  other  order 
for  the  said  John's  estate.  By  p.s.  [31265.] 

Et  erat  patens. 

To  Robert  de  Ferrers  knight.  Writ  de  intendendo,  directing  him 
to  pay  to  John  de  Beverlee  the  king's  esquire  from  16  September  last 
the  farm  of  100  marks  which  the  said  Robert  is  bound  yearly  to  render 
to  the  king  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  during  the 
term  to  him  granted,  taking  the  said  John's  acquittance  ;  as  lately 
the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  to  the  said  Robert  the  wardship 
of  the  manor  of  Keston  co.  Huntyngdon,  two  thirds  of  the  manor  of 
Southe,  of  a  messuage,  120  acres  of  land,  4  acres  of  meadow  and  2 
acres  of  pasture  in  Great  Paxton  called  Maugrith,  2  acres  of  meadow 
and  two  thirds  of  the  view  of  frankpledge  in  Eynesbury  and  of  3  acres 
of  land  there,  all  formerly  held  in  chief  for  her  life  by  Joan  who  was 
wife  of  Robert  de  Ferrers  by  gift  of  John  de  Ferrariis  knight  son  and 
heir  of  Robert  de  Ferrariis  knight  with  reversion  to  the  right  heirs  of 
the  said  John  [de  Ferrariis]  and  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
her  death  and  are  in  his  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said 
John's  heir,  to  hold  until  the  lawful  age  of  that  heir  rendering  at 
the  exchequer  the  farm  aforesaid  ;  and  on  16  September  last  the 
king  of  his  favour  granted  by  other  letters  patent  to  his  said  esquire 
the  wardship  of  all  the  lands  which  were  of  the  said  Joan  and  are  in 
his  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Robert  son  and  heir  of  John  de 
Ferrariis,  with  all  things  to  that  wardship  pertaining,  until  the  lawful 
age  of  the  heir  without  rendering  aught  to  the  king,  saving  always  to  the 
farmers  of  those  lands  the  terms  whereby  they  took  the  same  to  farm  so 
that  they  pay  to  the  said  esquire  so  long  as  he  shall  have  that  wardship 
the  farms  which  they  are  bound  to  render  to  the  lung  for  the  same. 

Et  erat  patens. 


424  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  | ,  MEMBR  i.v/:  2M. 

June  !<•  the  sheriff  of  York.     ( Irder,  upon  the  petition  of  Robert  de  ( hist  on. 

w«  •  dear  "i"  Elaytfeld,  Adam  Clerk  of  Duneroft,  Joan  his  wife,  and  Joan 

daughter  of  the  Baid  .loan,  by  mainprise  of  Roger    Brocham  'draper' 

London,    Robert    Prescroft,  John    Botiller,  and  John   Maystre  of 

Baytfeld  of  Yorkshire  t«>  atay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents 

gainsl  the  petitioners  ;  as  their  pi  tition  shews  thai  Alexander  M.utyn 

and  Alice  his  wife  are  Impleading  them  before  the  justices  of  the  Benoh 

for  an  alleged  trespass,  and  that  by  writ  <l<  judicio  they  are  pul  in 

exigents  in  Yorkshire  to  be  outlawed  for  that  they  came  not   before 

the  Baid  justices  to  answer  thereupon,  and  that  they  are  ready  to 

answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  praying  a  slay  ;    and  the 

said    Roger  and  the  others,  appearing  in   person  in  chancery,  have, 

ma&npemed  under  a  pain  of  1<>/.  to  have  them  before  the  said  justices 

the  day  the  said  writ  is  returnable. 

Writing  of  Roger  Dore,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Richard 
earl  of  Arundel]  and  Surrey,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  messuage, 
a  mill,  two  carucatcs  of  land  and  50a.  of  rent  in  Esthamptonet  co. 
Sussex.     Dated   London,  21   June  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
21   June. 

dune  L'.">.  Thomas  Blount  tin    father  knight,  Hugh  Tyrell  knight  and  Thomas 

tminstor.  Blount  the  son  knight,  to  Edmund  earl  of  Cantcbrigge.  Recognisance 
for  200/.  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels 
in  Oxfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

June  25.  Matthew    Redeman  knight  to  Walter  fitz  Wautcr  knight,  son  and 

Westminster,  heir  of  Jolin  fitz  Wauter  knight.     Recognisance  for  200  marks,  to 
be  levied  etc.  in  Salop. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Walter  fitz  Wauter,  son  and 
heir  of  Sir  John  fitz  Wauter  of  the  one  part,  and  Sir  Matthew  Redeman 
of  the  other  part,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance, 
upon  condition  that  Sir  Matthew,  his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  pay 
to  Sir  Walter  or  his  executors  25  marks  at  Christmas  next  in  the 
house  of  John  Aubry  in  the  parish  of  St.  Ancelyn  London,  25  marks 
at  Midsummer  following,  25  marks  at  Christmas  following,  and  25 
marks  at  Midsummer  following.  Dated  Westminster,  Thursday  after 
Midsummer  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  25  June. 

Writing  of  Walter  fitz  Wauter,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  fitz  Wauter, 
being  a  release  to  Sir  Maheu  de  Redemane,  and  to  all  those  coming  in  his 
aid  with  force  or  assenting  to  his  entry  upon  the  manor  of  Multon, 
of  all  actions  for  trespass  by  reason  of  such  entry  or  trespass  by  them 
committed  in  houses  or  elsewhere  within  that  manor.  Dated  London, 
Monday  the;  eve  of  Midsummer  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  June. 

Writing  of  Agnes  who  was  wife  of  John  Broun  and  Richard  her  son 
clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Simon  de  Burlcy  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Prilleston  co.  Norffolk,  all  their  goods  and 
chattels  there  excepted.     Dated  London,   50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  June. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  If.  425 


1.">76.  Membrane  2od — cont. 

Indenture  made  at  High  Clere  on  Thursday  after  Easter  50 
Edward  III,  between  William  de  Wykeham  bishop  of  Winchester 
and  John  Gyffard  knight,  lord  of  the  manor  of  Ichull  co.  Suthampton 
which  he  holds  by  certain  services  of  the  said  bishop  in  right  of  his 
bishopric  within  the  bounds  of  the  bishop's  chace  of  Crundale,  witness- 
ing that  the  bishop  for  himself  and  his  successors  has  granted  licence 
to  the  said  John  to  enclose  with  a  ditch,  hay  or  paling  a  wood  of 
his  said  manor  and  certain  lands  and  pastures  adjoining  the  said  wood, 
to  make  thereof  a  park,  and  to  hold  the  same  to  him  and  his  heirs, 
putting  and  keeping  deer  therein  within  the  said  chace  ;  and  that 
for  this  licence  the  said  John  for  himself,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  has 
granted  to  pay  and  render  yearly  to  the  bishop  and  his  successors 
in  their  castle  of  Farnham  on  the  feast  of  St.  Peter's  Chains  one  good 
new  bow  with  a  string  and  six  new  barbed  arrows  winged  with  peacock 
feathers,  and  likewise  of  the  said  park  one  doe  every  year  between 
1  December  and  1  February  when  he,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  be 
warnod  by  the  ministers  of  the  bishop  or  his  successors,  at  his  own  cost 
taking  such  doe  and  sending  it  to  Farnham  castle  to  be  delivered  to 
the  bishop's  ministers,  and  if  the  said  bow  and  arrows  and  the  said 
doe  shall  be  in  arrear  in  part  or  in  whole  at  the  day  or  time  aforesaid, 
or  if  any  default,  hindrance  or  gainsaying  shall  be  found  in  the  said  John, 
his  heirs  or  assigns,  contrary  to  this  indenture,  the  said  John  hereby 
covenants  for  himself,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  that  it  shall  be  lawful  for 
the  bishop  and  his  successors  by  their  ministers  and  deputies  to  distrain 
in  the  said  manor  until  fully  contented,  into  whose  hands  soever  the 
same  shall  come.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Foxle,  Sir  Bernard  Brocas, 
Sir  Ralph  de  Norton  knights,  Henry  Sturmy,  Thomas  Byflete,  John 
Bremsshete,  Thomas  le  Warenner,  John  atte  Berghe. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  Gyffard,  28  June. 

June  27.         Henry  Grene  knight,  Richard  de  Bollisore  clerk,  Robert  Isham  and 
Westminster.  John  de  Sadyngton  of  Yorkshire  to  William  Cruer.     Joint  and  several 
recognisance  for  80/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands 
and  chattels  in  Norhamptonshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Henry  Grene,  Richard  Bollisore  clerk, 
Robert  Isham  and  John  de  Sadyngton  of  the  one  part  and  William 
Cruer  of  the  other  part,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognis- 
ance, upon  condition  that  the  said  Henry  and  other  the  first  parties 
or  one  of  them  or  some  other  in  their  name  shall  in  the  quinzaine 
of  Michaelmas  next  pay  101.  at  Westminster  to  the  said  William  or 
his  executors,  10/.  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  following,  10/.  within 
three  weeks  after  Easter  following,  and  10/.  in  the  octaves  of  Midsummer 
following.  Dated  Westminster,  Saturday  the  eve  of  St.  Peter  and 
St.  Paul  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  29  June. 

Writing  of  John  Hcrberd,  son  and  heir  of  William  Herberd  of  Faue- 
lore,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Richard  Hereberd  of  Fauelore, 
his  heirs  or  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures  etc. 
in  the  towns  and  parish  of  Spersholt,  Kyngeston,  Fauelore,  Offynton 
and  Badelkyng.     Witnesses  :  Gilbert  Shotesbroke,  John  de  Bourghton, 


12« 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


July  1. 

I  minster. 


1  .;7t'..  I/-  mbrane  25d    cont. 

John  Fynk,  John  Cokerell,  Riohard  Gemot,  William  Atteflete,  Andren 
Attewatre.  Dated  Fauelore,  Monday  after  St.  Peter  and  St  Paul 
60  Edward  HI. 

Memorandum  <>f  acknowledgment,  4  .Inly. 

Membrane  24d. 

Robert  il<-  ( iivy.  Bon  and  heir  <>f  John  de  ( Irey  of  Rotherfeld  knight, 
to  John  df  Eermethorp  parson  of  Bedale.  Recognisance  for  100/., 
to  be  Levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  York- 
shire. 

( '•/?('■-  //<  </  cm  payrm  )>t. 

July  4.  John  de  Bekeryng  knight  to  Thomas  de  Thelwal]  clerk  and  Hugh  de 

Vfeataunrtor.  Gandeby  clerk.     Recognisanoe  for  in/.,  to  he  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  earl  of  Arundel]  and  Surrey  of 
the  one  part  and  Roger  Dorc  and  Joan  his  wife  of  the  other  part, 
reciting  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  whereby  the  said  Roger  and 
Joan  for  them  and  the  heirs  of  Joan  made  a  release  with  warranty 
to  the  said  earl  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever  of  a  messuage,  a  mill,  two 
carucatcs  of  land  and  505.  of  rent  in  Esthamptonet  co.  Sussex,  and  a 
deed  enrolled  in  chancery  whereby  the  said  Roger  made  a  release  of  the 
premises  with  warranty  to  the  said  earl,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  and 
witnessing  a  covenant  by  the  said  earl  for  himself,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  that  if  he  and  they  be  impleaded  concerning  the  premises  or 
any  parcel  thereof  by  any  other  than  the  said  Roger  and  Joan  and 
the  heirs  of  Joan,  and  shall  vouch  to  warranty  the  said  Roger  and 
Joan  or  any  of  their  heirs,  or  by  writ  of  warranty  of  charter  shall  sue 
against  them,  they  and  none  of  their  heirs  shall  be  bound  to  such 
warranty,  but  shall  in  such  case  be  thereof  discharged,  provided 
always  that  if  the  said  earl,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  be  so  impleaded  by 
the  said  Roger  and  Joan  or  by  the  heirs  of  Joan,  or  be  by  them  impeached 
in  any  other  manner  whatsoever,  the  said  warranty  shall  remain  in 
force  to  bar  them  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Joan  only.  Dated  London, 
8  July  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  2  July. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  de  Wodhull,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Thomas  de 
Reynes  knight,  Lawrence  de  Pabenham  knight,  John  Curteys  of  Wymyn- 
ton  and  William  de  W7odhull  of  a  yearly  rent  of  200/.  issuing  from  the 
manors  of  Great  WTodhull,  Little  Wodhull  and  Langeford  co.  Bedford, 
by  them  granted  to  the  said  Nicholas,  his  heirs  and  assigns.  Dated 
5  July  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  5  July. 

July  8.  Robert  ap  Prees  and  Roger  Chaundos  of  Herefordshire  to  Thomas 

Westminster,  de  WTodestoke  constable  of  England.  Recognisance  for  100/.,  to 
be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 
Herefordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  certified  by  a  letter  of  the  said  Thomas  which  is 
on  the  files  of  chancery  among  the  king's  writs  for  this  year. 

July  11.  Robert  Aleyn  to  Richard  de  Stoke  parson  of  Bridbroke,  Geoffrey  de 

Westminster.  Norton  parson  of  Langton  and  Richard  Roke  of  Westminster. 
Recognisance  for  133/  6s.  8c/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Middlesex. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  427 


1376.  Membrane  24d — cord. 

Charter  of  Richard  Wythermerssh  and  John  Borlcy,  being  a  feoffment 
to  Sir  Simon  de  Bucrley  knight  of  the  manor  of  Pyrleston  co.  Norffolk 
for  his  life,  granting  that  in  case  he  shall  die  within  three  years  from 
this  date  his  executors  and  assigns  shall  enjoy  the  same  for  that  term, 
and  his  heirs  and  executors  for  one  year  after  his  death  if  he  shall 
die  after  that  term  without  impeachment  of  waste,  and  that  after  the 
term  aforesaid  the  said  manor  shall  remain  to  Sir  John  de  Hopton 
and  Isabel  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  such  heirs  to  the  right  heirs  of  Sir  John,  saving  always 
to  Sir  Simon,  his  assigns  and  executors,  the  advantage  of  making  waste 
therein  without  impeachment.  Dated  Purleston,  28  June  50  Edward 
III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  July. 

July  15.  Robert  fitz  Rauf  to  Hugh  Fastolf.     Recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to  be 

Westminster,  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Suffolk. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Walter  Garlek,  son  and  heir  of  John  Garlek,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Sir  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  the  uncle  and 
Margaret  his  wife  and  to  the  said  Margaret's  heirs  of  the  manor  of 
Bukstede  co.  Essex  sometime  of  Sir  Thomas  de  la  Ryver,  and  of  all 
lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions  in  the  town  of  Blatherwyke  co. 
Northamton  sometime  of  the  said  Thomas.  Dated  14  July  50 
Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  July. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Swilyngton  the  uncle  knight,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  John  Garlik  and  Sara  his  wife  and  to  the  said  Sara's  heirs  of  the 
manor  of  Sporle  co.  Northfolk  sometime  of  Sir  Thomas  de  la  Rivere,  and 
of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Great  Cressyngham 
sometime  of  the  said  Thomas.  Dated  Westminster,  17  July 
50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  July. 

Writing  of  John  Garlik,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Robert  de  Swyllyngton 
the  uncle  and  Margaret  his  wife  and  to  the  said  Margaret's  heirs  of  the 
manor  of  Bukstede  co.  Essex  sometime  of  Sir  Thomas  de  la  Ryver, 
and  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Blatherwyke 
co.  Northampton  sometime  of  the  said  Thomas.  Dated  Westminster, 
17  July  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  July. 

July  9.  To  A.  archbishop  of  York.     Strict  order  not  to  attempt  aught  or 

Westminster,  procure  aught  to  be  attempted  or  done  which  may  tend  to  impair  the 
liberties  and  privileges  of  the  bishopric  of  Durham  or  to  the  disturbance 
of  the  people  there,  or  to  comfort  or  encourage  the  king's  enemies  of 
the  marches  of  Scotland  bordering  upon  that  bishopric  and  diocese, 
and  order  to  revoke  any  such  attempt  made,  knowing  for  a  surety 
that  if  he  shall  act  otherwise,  which  the  king  will  not  suffer  to  be 
done  by  him  or  by  any  other  by  any  authority  whatsoever,  the  king 
will  chastise  and  punish  him  as  having  procured  the  papal  letters 
hereinafter  mentioned,  as  the  cause  of  such  disturbance  and  encourage- 
ment, as  a  despiser  of  the  king's  commands  and  breaker  of  his  peace  ; 


»js  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376,  Membram   21./    cont. 

,i-  it  baa  oome  to  the  king's  cars  that  l>y  colour  of  the  said  letters 
to  him  Benl  o\<r  the  archbishop  is  purposing  to  visit  the  person  of 
Thomas  bishop  of  Durham,  the  clergy  and  people  of  thai  diocese,  to 
extort  from  them  procurations  and  divers  sums  of  money,  and  to  do 

then-  other  unwonted  and  unheard  of  things  otherwise  than  used  to 
be  done  time  out  of  mind,  although  the  bishop  is  earl  palatine  having 
by  the  king's  authority  temporal  jurisdiction  over  all  and  singular 
his  subjects  of  the  liberty  of  Durham,  and  although  lie  and  his  pre- 
deoe680rs  from  that  time  have  ever  by  their  ministers  exercised  .such 
jurisdiction  as  persons  honoured  with  royal  privileges,  and  if  this 
were  done  it  would  manifestly  tend  not  only  to  i  in  pair-  the  said  pri\  ill 
and  liberties  granted  by  former  kings  to  St.  Cuthbert  and  the  church 
of  Durham,  hut  to  disturbance  of  the  said  people  and  the  encourage- 
ment of  the  said  enemies  making  insurrections  and  invasions  and 
committing  other  crimes  and  annoyances  against  the  king  and  hie 
people  in  those  parte,  and  other  more  grievous  hurt  might  arise  thereby  ; 
and  the  king  will  not  endure  such  things,  being  bound  to  cherish 
peace    and    quietness    everywhere    in    his    realm. 

MEMBRANE  23'/. 

July  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Northumberland.  Order  to  cause  Robert 
I "mframville  knight  and  William  Hcsilrigge,  knights  of  the  shire 
coming  to  the  parliament  summoned  at  Westminster  on  Monday 
after  St.  George  last,  to  have  of  the  commons  of  the  county,  except 
cities  and  boroughs  from  which  citizens  and  burgesses  came  thereto,  367. 
for  their  expenses  in  coming  to  the  said  parliament,  there  abiding,  and 
thence  returning  to  their  own  again,  namely  4s.  a  day  each  for  90  days. 
The  following  have  the  like  writs  : — 

Cumberland.     Gilbert  de  Culwenn  knight  and  William    Stapelton 

36/.  for  90  days. 
Westmorland.     Christopher     de     Lancastre     and     Thomas     de 

Wartheeopp  35/.  4s.  for  88  days. 
Yorkshire.      John    Sayville     knight    and    Robert    de    Boynton 

knight  34/.  8«.  for  80  days. 
Xotvnghamshire.      Simon  de  Leek  knight  and  John  de  Birton 

32/.  for  80  days. 
Derbyshire.      Edmund  de  Appelby  knight  and  Ralph  de  Stathum 

32/.  for  80  days. 
Lincolnshire.     Thomas    de    Kydale    knight    and    William    Bussy 

knight  32/.  16*.  for  82  days. 
Levcestershire.     William    Flaumville    knight    and    James    Beler 

knight  32/.  for  80  days. 
Warwickshire.      Robert    de    Stafford    and    Roger    Harwell    32/. 

for  80  days. 
Roteland.     John  Basynges  knight  and  Thomas  de  Burton  knight 

32/.  for  80  days. 
Norhamx)tonshire.     Thomas    de    Preston    knight    and    Thomas 

fitz  Wauter  31/.  4s.  for  78  days. 
Staffordshire.     John  Verdoun    knight  and  John  de  Knyghtleye 

32/.  10s.  for  82  [days]. 
Salop.     John  de  Lodelowe  knight  and  Robert  de  Kendale   knight 

32/.  10s.  for  82  days. 
Herefordshire.     John  de  Eynesford  knight  and  Peter  de  la  Mare 
knight  32/.  16a.  for  82  days. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  429 


1376.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

Gloucestershire.      John  Thorp  knight  and  John  GifTard  knight 

32/.  165.  for  82  days. 
Bedfordshire.      John    Ragoun    knight    and    Thomas    atte    Hoo 

31/.  4s.  for  78  days. 
Bukinghamshire.     Edmund  atte  Pole  knight  and  John  Aylesbury 

knight  31/.  4s.  for  78  days. 
Huntingdonshire.     Nicholas  Styuecle  and  Robert  Waryn  311.  4s. 

for  78  days. 
Cambridgeshire.      John    Avenel    and    Roger    Herleston    311.    4s. 

for  78  days. 
Oxfordshire.      Thomas    Harecourt   knight   and    Robert    Symeon 

31/.  45.  for  78  days. 
Berkshire.      John   Foxle    knight   and   John   Kentwode   31/.    45. 

for  78  days. 
Hertfordshire.     Thomas  de  Fitlyng    knight  and  John  Westwi- 

combe  30/.  85.  for  76  days. 
Essex.     Robert  Marny  knight  and  Robert  de  Teye  knight  30/.  8s. 

for  76  days. 
Middlesex.     John  de  Shordich  and  Giles    Pykeman  29/.  45.  (sic) 

for  74  days. 
Kent.     Thomas  Fogge  knight  and  Thomas  de  Cobham    31/.  45. 

for  78  days. 
Surrey.     William  Nyudegate  and  Robert    Loxle    30/.  85.  for  76 

days. 
Sussex.     William  Fifhyde  and  Robert  de  Ore  31/.  45.  for  78  days. 
Wiltesir.      John   de   la   Mare   knight   and   Nicholas   de   Bonham 

31/.  45.  for  78  days. 
The  county  of  Suthampton.     Richard  Pauncefout  and  William 

Ryngbourne  31/.  45.  for  78  days. 
Worcestershire.     John   atte    Wode    knight   and   Richard     Fyton 

knight  31/.  45.  for  78  days. 
Somerset.     Thomas  Mareschall  16/.  85.  for  82  days. 
Dorset.     Thomas  Blount  and  John  Hamely  32/.  for  80  days. 
Lancashire.     John  Botiller  knight  and  Roger  de  Brokhols  34/.  8s. 

for  86  days. 
Norffolk.     Thomas   de   Gissyngge   knight   and   Ralph  de  Poleye 

knight  32/.  for  80  days. 
Suffolk.     Richard  Waldegrave  knight  and  William  de  Wyngfeld 

knight  31/.  45.  for  78  days. 
Devon.     John  Bcaumond  knight  and  William  Bonevyle    knight 

35/.  4s.  for  88  days. 
Cornwall.     Nicholas  Wampford  and  John    Bevyle  of  Wolveston 

36/.  for  90  days. 
[Prynne,  Parliamentary  Writs,  iv.  p.  301.] 

July  10.  To  the  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne.     Order  to  cause  Nicholas  de 

We  tminster.  Sabram  and  Lawrence  de  Acton  burgesses  coming  to  the  said  parlia- 
ment to  have  of  the  commonalty  of  that  town  18/.  for  their  expenses, 
namely  28.  a  day  each  for  90  (lays. 

The  following  citizens  and  burgesses  have  the  like  writs  : — 

Lincoln  city.       William    Belay   and   John   de   Hodelston    16/.    8s. 

for  82  days. 
Grymesby    town.      Ralph    de    Qtterby    and    William    de    Thorp 
16/.  85.  for  82  days. 


ISO  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


L376i  Metabrane  23d — cont. 

Levoestei  town.     Henry  de  Petlyng  and  Henry  de  Gipston    161. 

for  SO  d;i\  |, 

Norhampton  town.     Thomas  Pyryc  and  John  atte  Wcllo  15/.  12s. 
for  78  «la\  S, 

Stafford  tow  a.  Hugh  Snelle  and  Nicholas  Snelle  16/.  8.?.  for  82  days. 
Shrewsbury  town.     William  do  Longcnolro  and  Thomas  Skynner 
of  Shrewsbury  Hi/.  8*.  for  82  days. 

Broggenorth    town.      Thomas    Skynner    and    John    atte    Yato 

It;/.  80.  for  82  days. 
Hereford  city.      John   Blode  and  John  Cachepol  16/.  85.  for  82 

1  lays. 
Leomynystre   town.     John   Elmede  and  Roger  Kanut   16/.   8s. 

for  82  days. 
Gloucester  town.      Edward  Tavcrner  and  Robert  Pope  16/.  85. 

for  82  days. 
Bedford  town.      Thomas  Bole  and  John  Swanton  15/.  12.9.  for 

78  days. 
Wycombe  town.     William  atte  Dene  and  Thomas   Rauel  15/.  4s. 

for  76  days. 
Cantebrigge  town.     John  Moricc  and  John    Blankpayn  15/.  12s. 

for  78  days. 
Huntingdon    town.      Ralph    Gyddyng    and    William    Withman 

15/.  12s.  for  78  days. 
Oxford    town.     William  de  Codeshale  and  John  Gibbes  15/.  12s. 

for  78  days. 
Walyngford  town.     John  James  and  Richard  atte  Felde  15/.  4s. 

for  76  days. 
Redyng  town.     Reynold  Sheffeld  and  John  Goldory  15/.  4s.  for 

76  days. 
Colcestre     town.      Thomas     Fraunceys     and     Simon     Fordham 

15/.  4s.  for  76  days. 
Hertford  town.      Richard  Ikelyngford  and  Richard  Wyndesore 

15/.  4s.  for  76  days. 
Guldeford    town.     Henry  Taverner  and  Roger  Lombard  15/.  4s. 

for  76  days. 
Suthwerk    town.     Thomas  Croydon  and  Henry  Bailly  14/.   12s. 

(sic)  for  74  days. 
[Ibid.  p.  305.] 

Membrane  22d. 

Writing  of  Simon  de  Bureleyc  knight,  being  a  general  release  to 
John  de  Hopton  knight  of  all  actions  real  and  personal.  Dated 
Thursday  after  Midsummer  50  Edwrard  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  June. 

Charter  of  John  de  Hopton  knight,  granting  to  John  de  Lodelowe 
knight  and  William  de  Halughton  and  to  their  heirs  a  yearly  rent 
of  40  marks  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions 
of  his  manors  of  Hopton  co.  Salop  and  Staunton  co.  Hereford,  with 
power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Witnesses :  Robert  de  Stafford, 
William  de  Chetewynd,  Richard  de  Peshale,  Robert  de  Swynorton, 
Peter  de  Careswall  knights,  John  de  Knyghtley  and  William  de 
Wasteneys.     Dated  Stafford,  Friday  after  Midsummer  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II. 


431 


1376.  Membrane  22d — cont. 

Writing  of  John  de  Hopton  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Richard 
Wythermerssh  and  John  Borley,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
of  Prylleston  co.  Norffolk.  Dated  Prylleston,  22  June  50  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

July  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order,  according  to  the  tenor  of  the 

Westminster,  king's  former  commands,  to  replevy  Alan  Rede,  and  nevertheless  if 
the  said  Alan  shall  give  security  for  prosecuting  his  claim,  to  put 
Robert  Haunsard  upon  bail  to  be  before  the  king  in  the  cpjinzaine  of 
Michaelmas  to  answer  him  concerning  the  taking  of  his  body  and  the 
said  claim,  biinging  before  the  king  the  names  of  his  sureties  and  this 
writ ;  as  the  king  has  many  times  ordered  the  sheriff  to  replevy  the 
said  Alan,  whom  the  said  Robert  has  taken  and  is  detaining  it  is  said, 
unless  taken  by  the  king's  special  command  or  command  of  the  chief 
justice,  or  for  manslaughter,  the  king's  forest  or  on  some  other  charge  for 
which  according  to  the  custom  of  England  he  was  not  replevisable, 
or  else  to  signify  to  the  king  the  cause  wherefore  he  would  not  or  might 
not  execute  the  king's  said  command,  and  the  sheriff  returned  that  the 
said  Robert  took  the  said  Alan  and  is  detaining  him  as  a  neif  of  the  said 
Robert's  manor  of  Southkelleseye  for  that  he  was  a  fugitive  from  his 
land  and  refused  to  justify  himself  to  the  said  Robert  as  his  lord  as  the 
said  Robert  says,  and  that  because  neither  the  said  Alan  nor  any  other 
in  his  name  has  found  sureties  to  prosecute  his  claim  or  to  give  up  his 
body  to  the  said  Robert  if  so  it  should  be  adjudged  by  the  king's  court, 
it  seemed  to  the  sheriff  to  be  to  Che  said  Robert's  prejudice  by  virtue 
of  the  said  writ  to  replevy  the  said  Alan's  body  without  surety,  where- 
fore he  has  deferred  without  judgment  of  the  king's  court  further  to 
execute  the  same  ;  and  for  that  Hugh  de  Wombewell,  John  de  Bretton, 
Thomas  de  Snayth  and  Robert  Abbot  of  Dyke  of  Yorkshire,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40Z.  to  have 
the  said  Alan  before  the  king  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  in  order 
to  answer  the  said  Robert  if  he  will  take  up  a  cause  against  him,  it  is 
the  king's  will  that  the  said  Alan,  if  he  be  a  free  man,  shall  not  bo 
deprived  of  the  common  law  by  reason  of  the  taking  and  claim 
aforesaid. 


July  13.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Ralph  de  Poley 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Taverner,  Geoffrey  Bee  and  John  Ingman  of  Norffolk  to 
set  free  Geoffrey  Pulle  of  Jernemuth  from  Newgate  prison,  warning 
Walter  Sibille,  Hugh  Fastolf  and  William  Pepir  to  be  before  the 
council  at  Westminster  on  Monday  next,  which  day  the  king  has  given 
them,  to  answer  concerning  the  matters  hereinafter  mentioned  and 
others  which  shall  be  laid  against  them,  and  bringing  there  this  writ ; 
as  the  said  Ralph  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  for  the  said  prisoner,  who  at  the  suit  and  procurement 
of  the  said  Walter,  Hugh  and  William  is  by  the  sheriffs  taken  and 
imprisoned,  to  have  him  before  the  council  on  that  day  in  order  to 
do  and  receive  what  shall  be  there  by  the  council  appointed. 

June  6.  To   the   sheriff  of   Huntingdon.     Order   by   mainprise   of  John  de 

Westminster.  Lineoln  of  Northumberland  and  William  de  Shell* >n  of  Cumberland 

to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  John  vicar  of  Hemyngford  Grey, 

bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of.  the  Bench  ;    as  by  writ  de 


132  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1">7<».  Membram  22<l — cont. 

fudido  the  king  has  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said  vicar  wherever 
found  in  his  bailiwiok  bo  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  Justice  at  the 
•  •f  Trinity  next  to  answer  Gilbert  de  Sutton  oonoerning  an 
alleged  debt  of  111  marks  3s.,  and  he  lias  prayed  the  king  tor  a  stay, 
shew  ing  that  he  18  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and 
tin-  said  John  de  Lincoln  and  William,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainpemed  under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  him  before  the  said 

justices  at  the  day  named. 

July  17.  Master   Robert   de    Wykford   archhishop  of   Dublin   to   Thomas  do 

Westminster.  Xewenham   clerk.     Recognisance  for  20/.,  to   he   levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  land-  and  chattels  in  Staffordshire. 
Cancdlcd  on  payment. 

Charter  of  John  de  Neville  lord  of  Raby  and  Ralph  Stoke,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Sir  John  de  Arundel]  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the 
manor  of  Aynho  co.  Nbrhampton  with  advowsons  whatsoever  thereto 
pertaining.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Lovel,  Sir  John  Golofre,  Sir  Thomas 
Latemer.  Sir  Richard  Adelbery,  Sir  Baldwin  Berford  knights.  Dated 
London,  30  June  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  July. 

Writing  of  Alexander  Goldyngton  (or  Goldyngham)  knight,  granting 
with  warranty  to  Master  John  Blaunchard  archdeacon  of  Worcester 
and  to  his  heirs  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  of  the  manor  in  Berefoixl  St. 
Martin  by  Wylton  co.  Wiltesir  which  John  Peioun  has  for  a  term  of 
years  by  demise  of  the  said  Alexander  at  the  rent  aforesaid,  and  the 
reversion  of  that  manor  after  the  said  term.  Witnesses  :  Lawrence  de 
Sancto  Martino,  Thomas  West,  John  de  la  Mare  knights,  Nicholas 
Bonham,  Henrv  Gilberd,  Oliver  Harnham,  Henry  Haversham.  Dated 
1 7  July  50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Alexander  Goldyngham  knight,  requesting  John  Peioun 
to  attorn  tenant  to  Master  John  Blaunchard  archdeacon  of  Worcester, 
to  whom  the  said  Alexander  has  granted  the  rent  and  all  the  service 
which  the  said  John  Peioun  owes  for  the  manor  of  Bereford  St.  Martin 
by  him  held  for  a  term  of  years  by  demise  of  the  said  Alexander,  and 
the  reversion  thereof.     Dated  23  July  50  Edward  III. 

M unorandurn  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  24  July. 

June  23.  To  the  bailiffs  and  commonalty  of  the  town  of  Great  Jernemuth. 
Westminster.  Order,  under  pain  of  100/.,  to  be  before  the  king  and  council  at  West- 
minster on  Friday  after  the  octaves  of  Midsummer  next,  the  bailiffs  in 
person  and  the  commonalty  by  four  true  men  of  the  town,  with  the 
king's  charter  of  20  August  in  the  46th  year  of  the  reign,  in  order 
to  do  and  receive  what  shall  by  the  king  and  council  be  appointed, 
bringing  this  writ  ;  as  by  the  said  charter  the  king  confirmed  divers 
liberties  granted  to  the  burgesses  by  former  kings,  and  moreover  at 
the  untrue  suggestion  of  certain  persons  granted  that  no  ship  or  boat 
should  be  laded  with  herrings  or  other  merchandise  whatsoever  or 
unladed  at  any  town  or  place  upon  the  sea  coast  within  seven  leagues 
of  the  said  town  by  any  person  whatsoever  save  at  the  said  town  or 
in  the  port  thereof  or  at  Kirkelerode  ;   and  at  the  loud  complaint  of  the 


50  EDWARD  HI.— Part  TT.  433 


1376.  Membrane  22d  —coal. 

people  sitting  in  this  parliament,  averring  that  the  said  charter  issued 
to  the  hurt  and  prejudice  of  the  king  and  people,  with  absent  of  the 
lords  and  others  therein  sitting  the  same  is  revoked  and  annulled  in 
regard  to  that  grant.  By  C.  in  pari. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  5,000  marks  for  Ralph 
de  Horneby  mayor  of  York  and  the  commonalty  of  York,  by  William 
Gra,  John  de  Santon,  John  de  Rypon,  John  de  Essheton  and  Thomas 
de  Midelton  citizens  of  York,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
20  September  50  Edward  III,  that  the  said  mayor  nor  any  of  the 
commonalty  shall  not  make  insurrection  with  power  against  Richard  de 
Ravenser  master  of  the  hospital  of  St.  Leonard  York  of  the  king's 
patronage,  nor  against  the  brethren,  sisters,  ministers,  servants  or 
tenants  thereof,  or  any  other  the  king's  subjects,  nor  do  aught  which 
may  tend  to  impair  the  laws  of  England,  to  disturbance  of  the  people 
or  to  breach  of  the  peace. 

Likewise  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  5,000  marks  for  the  said 
William,  Thomas,  John,  John,  John  and  Thomas  and  the  whole  of 
the  said  commonalty  by  the  said  mayor,  appearing  there  in  person  on 
the  same  day,  that  they  or  any  of  them  should  not  make  such 
insurrection,  nor  do  aught  as  aforesaid. 

Membrane  2 Id. 

Writing  of  Walter  Amyas  clerk  and  John  de  Barowc  clerk,  executors 
of  John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke,  being  a  release  to  the  king  and 
his  heirs  of  all  actions  for  sums  of  money  or  other  moveables  due  from 
the  king  to  the  said  earl  at  his  death  for  any  cause  whatsoever.  Dated 
London,  26  February  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  June. 

Marginal  note  that  this  writing  was  delivered  to  Robert  de  Asshton  the 
treasurer  to  be  kept  in  the  treasury. 

Charter  of  Richard  Priour,  giving  with  warranty  to  Sir  Thomas  de 
Erlestoke  chaplain,  John  Panys  of  Wyke  and  Godfrey  Bydyk,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  one  rose  rent  which  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Nicholas  de 
Netelton  used  to  pay,  one  rose  rent  which  John  Godyhold  used  to 
pay,  and  all  other  services  which  they  used  to  render  to  the  said 
Richard  for  all  lands  of  him  held  for  life,  and  the  reversion  of  such 
lands,  and  of  all  lands  which  ought  to  descend  to  him  after  the  death 
of  Christina  Fontel,  and  such  other  rents,  services  and  reversions  in 
Nony  and  Trottockeshull  as  ought  to  descend  to  him  as  well  in  right 
of  his  ancestors  as  in  right  of  John  de  Mersshton  by  purchase  of  the 
said  Richard  or  by  inheritance.  Witnesses  :  John  Merelaund,  William 
Waleys,  John  Adymet,  William  Polayn,  William  Stodlegh,  William 
Cayner.  Dated  Frome  Braunche,  Monday  after  Midsummer  50 
Edward  ITI._ 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  4  July. 

July  2.  To  Alan   Buxhill   constable  of   the  Tower  of   London  and   to   his 

Westminstor.  lieutenant.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Henry  Lescrope,  Richard  Lescrope, 
James  de  Pykeryng  and  John  do  Derwentwaatre  to  set  free  Hugh  de 
Dacre  knight,  from  the  Tower  prison  where  he  is  detained  on  suspicion 
of  causing  the  death  of  Randolph  de  Dacre  his  brother  j  as  the  said 
Henry  and  the  others  have  mainperned  body  for  bod)'  to  have  the 

Wt.    I  1824.  i  >;  28 


134  i   \l.K\h  \i:  i)\-  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Membram   2ld    <-<>nt. 

said  Hugh  before  the  king  and  other  tti<'  Lords  and  great  men  of  the 

realm  in  this  parliament  assembled  at  Westminster  when  it  shall  please 
the  king,  in  order  t<>  stand  to  righl  touching  the  things  that  shall  be 
laid   against    him,   and   after  the   said   parliament    upon   reasonable 

warning  to  Stand  to  righl  when  and  where  it  shall  please  the  king,  if 
(he  said  Hugh  shall  he  impeached  concerning  the  matter.      By C. ill  pail. 

July  7.  'I'o  the  sherilT  of  XorfTolk.     Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 

Westminster,  of  the  matters  hereinafter  rehearsed,  causing  them  to  be  observed; 
a-  by  charter  of  20  August  in  the  46th  year  of  his  reign  the  king 
confirmed  divers  liberties  granted  by  charters  of  former  kings  to  (he 
burgesses  of  G-real  Jernemuth,  and  moreover  (among  other  things) 
newly  granted  that  no  ship  or  boat  should  thenceforward  be  laded 
with  herrings  or  any  other  merchandise  or  unladed  by  any  person 
whatsoever,  unless  such  ship,  boat,  herrings  and  merchandise  should 
be  his  own,  at  any  town  or  place  upon  the  sea  coast  within  seven 
leagues  of  that  town  save  at  the  town  of  Great  Jernemuth  or  in  the 
port  thereof  or  at  Kirkelerode,  and  that  in  time  of  the  fishery  and  the 
fair  there  no  fair  should  be  held  and  no  selling  or  buying  of  herrings  or 
other  merchandise  for  traffic  to  any  man  within  seven  leagues  about 
the  said  town  save  only  at  the  town  or  in  the  port  thereof,  straitly 
forbidding  any  man  thenceforward  to  lade  or  unlade  any  sliip  or  boat, 
other  than  his  own  with  his  own  herrings  or  merchandise,  anywhere 
within  seven  leagues  save  at  the  town  or  in  the  port  aforesaid  or  at 
Kirkelerode,  or  at  that  time  to  hold  any  fair  or  sell  or  buy  for  traffic 
save  at  that  town  or  in  that  port  upon  pain  of  forfeiting  such  ships,  boats, 
herrings  and  merchandise  to  the  king's  use  ;  and  at  the  loud  complaint 
of  the  people  in  this  parliament,  averring  that  in  regard  to  the  new 
grant  therein  contained  and  hereinbefore  specified  that  charter  issued 
to  the  hurt  and  prejudice  of  the  king  and  people,  with  assent  of  the 
lords,  great  men  and  others  sitting  in  the  said  parliament  and  by  their 
judgment  the  said  charter  is  revoked  and  annulled  in  regard  to  that 
grant,  and  is  given  up  in  chancery  to  be  cancelled,  saving  always 
to  the  said  burgesses  all  other  the  franchises,  liberties  and  quittances 
heretofore  granted  or  confirmed  to  them  by  the  king  and  his  forefathers 
and  by  them  reasonably  used.  By  C.  in  pari. 

Charter  of  William  son  of  Walter  de  Mockyng  of  Sussex,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Nicholas  Carreu,  Thomas  Houton  and  Nicholas  Heryng 
•  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Nicholas  Carreu  all  the  lands,  rents  and 
possessions  in  the  towns  and  parishes  of  Gravesende,  Melton,  Notstede, 
Nbrthflete  and  Swanescompe  which  descended  to  him  by  inheritance 
after  the  death  of  Cicely  daughter  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Thomas  de 
Gravesende  knight,  and  of  Joan  the  cousin  and  other  heir  of  the 
said  Thomas.  Dated  Gravesende,  16  July  50  Edward  III.  Witnesses : 
Jolin  Tendre,  John  Horn,  Thomas  Kerl,  Richard  Pope. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  July. 

Indenture  reciting  a  feoffment  made  by  fine  in  the  king's  court  at 
Westminster  by  John  Asketyn  and  Alice  his  wife  to  Nicholas  Carreu, 
Thomas  de  Hoton  and  Nicholas  Heryng  and  to  the  heirs  of  Nicholas 
Carreu  to  the  king's  use  of  the  moiety  of  the  manors  of  Notstede  and 
Parrok  with  appurtenances  in  Graveshende  and  Milton,  and  the  moiety 
of  108  acres  of  land,  2  acres  of  wood  and  5|  acres  of  meadow  in  the 


50  EDWARD  TIL— Part  IT.  435 


1376.  Membrane  21c/ — cont. 

towns  of  Gravesende,  Milton,  Swanescompe  and  Northflete,  which 
moiety  with  the  other  moiety  of  the  premises  descended  hy  inheritance 
after  the  death  of  Cicely  daughter  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Sir  Thomas 
de  Gravesende  knight  and  Joan  daughter  of  Margaret  his  cousin  and 
other  heir  to  John  Mockynge,  William  his  brother,  Robert  Goshalm 
and  the  said  Alice  as  cousins  and  heirs  of  the  said  Cicely  and  Joan  ; 
and  witnessing  a  gift  made  to  John  Mockynge  and  his  heirs  by  the 
said  Nicholas.  Thomas  Hoton  and  Nicholas,  in  exchange  for  the 
moiety  of  the  manor  of  Parrok  and  other  the  lands  in  the  towns  of 
Gravesende  and  Milton  which  belonged  to  the  purparty  of  the  said 
John  Mockynge,  of  the  manor  of  Notestede;  the  moiety  of  8  acres 
of  land  and  |  acre  of  wood  in  the  town  of  Northflete,  and  the  moiety 
of  5|  acres  of  meadow  in  Swanescompe  which  they  have  by  gift  of  the 
said  John  [Asketyn]  and  Alice.  Witnesses  :  William  Pour,  Thomas 
Bokelande,  John  atte  Dene,  Richard  Poupe,  William  Galoun,  John 
Wynnegolde,  Thomas  Kerl.  Dated  Notstede,  1  April  50  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  London  by 
Nicholas  Carreu,  Nicholas  Heryng  and  John  Mockynge,  27  July. 

June  29.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Rous 
Westminster,  knight  of  Bedfordshire,  John  Sewale  of  Bedfordshire,  Andrew  Broun  of 
Norhamptonshire  and  Robert  de  Melton  of  Leycestershire  to  stay  the 
execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  for  taking  the  body  of  Robert  de 
Dikeswell  ;  as  at  the  prayer  of  Nicholas  Laurence,  averring  that 
Robert  de  Dikeswell  threatened  him,  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriff 
to  cause  the  defendant  to  come  before  him,  and  to  compel  him  to  find 
mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them 
for  which  the  sheriff  would  answer,  would  mainpern  that  he  should 
do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  Nicholas,  and  if  he 
should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  Neugate  gaol  there  to  be  kept  in  safe 
custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  but  the  said  Robert  Rous  and 
the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as 
aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  20/. 

Membrane  20d. 

Writing  of  John  de  Catesby  of  Warwickshire,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Richard  Bythewater  chaplain,  Nicholas  Brembre,  Thomas  Shardelowe 
and  Nicholas  Heryng,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  right  which  he 
has  or  which  may  hereafter  come  to  him  or  his  heirs  in  the  manors  of 
Roughull  and  Halghelee  eo.  Kent  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  that  county.     Dated  London,  12  July  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
12  July. 

July  18.  To  the  warden  of  the  Flete  prison  or  to  his  representative.  Order 
Westminster,  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Nevylle  of  Raby  to  set  free  Ralph  de  Stoke 
from  that  prison  ;  as  the  said  John,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
has  mainperned  for  him  that  he  shall  at  Ihe  octaves  of  Michaelmas 
next  content  the  king  of  91/.  for  the  farm  of  the  town  of  Scardeburgh, 
and  shall  then  answer  the  dean  of  St.  Stephen  Westminster  concerning 
360/.  which  the  said  dean  is  demanding  of  him,  for  which  causes  lie  is 
by  the  barons  of  the  exchecnicr  committed  to  the  said  prison  it  is  said. 


C  \l.l\l'  \i:   OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  '>7ti.  I/-  mbratu   20d    cont. 

July  26.         John  Sampson  of  Plymmouth  and  Nicholas  Fortesou  of  Plymmouth 
Westmii  ParavesimiH   Paravesyn  merohanl   of  Genoa   [Janua)  and   prootor 

of  Merit  1  de  Maii.     .leint  ami  several  recognisanoe  for  280/.  6s.  payable 
by  instalments,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and 

chattels  in    |)e\  on. 

I1  feasance  thereof,  upon  condition  thai  the  said  John  and  Nicholas 
pay  a  moiety  of  the  said  sum  at  the  dates  specified. 

Cancelled  <>>i  payment,  acknowledged  by  Lodeainus  Oentil  merchant 
of  Genoa,  attorney  of  th<  said  Paravesinus  ;  and  tht  itishop  of  Hereford 
received  hie  letters  of  attorney  by  writ,  which  is  on  tin  files  of  chancery 
among  writs  of  dedimus  potestatem  for  this  year. 

July  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Nbrffolk.     Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Kneshale 

Westminster,  and  John  de  Lyng'  of  Nbrffolk  to  set  free  John  Whitlyng  from  prison, 

bringing  this  wrii  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  ;  as  lately  the 
kiii!_r  ordered  the  sheriff  to  attach  the  prisoner  so  as  to  have  him  before 

the  said  justices  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  to  answer  as  well  the 
king  as  Thomas  de  Clare  wherefore  contrary  to  the  ordinance  he 
withdrew  from  the  service  of  the  said  Thomas  before  the  term  agreed  ; 
and  petition  is  now  madeonthe  prisoner's  behalf  to  set  him  free,  shewing 
that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  William 
and  John  de  Lyng',  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
under  a  pain  of  40$.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day 
named. 

Aug.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Notyngham.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Ripon 

Westminster,  and  John  de  Lemyng  of  Yorkshire  to  stay  altogether  the  exigents 
against  John  Outeby  parson  of  Corthmstoke  co.  Notyngham,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  Richard  Smyth  of 
Wysowe  chaplain  is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  for  an 
alleged  debt,  and  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  Notynghamshire  to  be  out- 
lawed for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer,  being 
altogether  without  knowledge  thereof,  wherefore  he  has  petitioned 
for  a  stay,  being  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ; 
and  the  said  John  de  Ripon  and  John  de  Lemyng,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  body  for  body  to  have  his  body  before 
the  said  justices  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable. 

Aug.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  give  notice  to  John  Kelesham  to 
Westminster,  be  in  chancery  the  day  a  writ  by  him  sued  against  William  Whyte 
of  Tunstalle  co.  Kent  is  returnable  in  order  to  shew  cause  wherefore 
the  execution  of  a  statute  merchant  to  him  made  by  the  said  William 
ought  not  to  be  altogether  stayed,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what 
the  court  shall  determine  ;  and  order  nevertheless  by  mainprise 
of  Walter  Norman  of  Lambheth,  John  Toniour  of  Lambheth  and 
Andrew  Yayn  of  Kyngeston  upon  Thames  to  stay  the  execution  of 
a  writ  to  the  sheriff  addressed  for  taking  the  said  William,  extending 
and  appraising  his  lands  and  chattels,  and  seizing  the  same  into  the 
king's  hand,  bringing  into  chancery  the  names  of  those  by  whom 
notice  is  given  to  the  plaintiff,  also  this  writ ;  as  the  said  William  has 
shewn  the  king  that  on  1  January  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  before 
William  Cornewayle  then  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Quenesburgh  deputed 
to  take  recognisances  of  debts  therein  he  made  a  recognisance  to  the 
said  John  for  401.  payable  at  a  term  now  past,  that  the  said  John  by 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  437 


1376.  Membrane  20d — cont. 

writing  indented  after  made  a  defeasance  thereof  upon  condition  that 
defendant,  his  heirs  or  executors,  should  pay  the  said  John,  his  heirs 
or  executors,  28/.  at  set  terms  in  the  church  of  Reynam,  and  that 
although  defendant  has  contented  him  of  those  28/.,  by  colour  of  the 
said  statute  the  said  John  of  malice  is  suing  the  writ  aforesaid  return- 
able in  chancery  at  a  set  day,  contrary  to  the  form  of  the  said  writing, 
wherefore  defendant  has  prayed  (supplicariuU)  for  remedy  ;  and  the 
said  Walter  and  the  others  have  mainpemed  under  a  pain  of  60/.  to 
have  him  in  chancery  the  day  the  said  writ  is  returnable. 

Aug.  28.  To   the   sheriff  of   Oxford.     Order,   upon   the   petition  of   William 

Westminster.  Burcestre,  if  he  shall  find  sufficient  mainpernors  who  will  mainpern 
body  for  body  to  have  him  before  the  king  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas 
next,  to  set  him  free  from  prison,  sending  before  the  king  at  that 
day  under  seal  a  writ  of  exigents  whereby  William  Goldene  clerk 
servant  of  Ralph  late  earl  of  Stafford  is  outlawed,  which  writ  is 
returnable  before  John  Vemoun  and  his  fellows,  guardians  of  the  peace 
and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Oxfordshire  on  Thursday  after 
Michaelmas  next,  also  tliis  writ,  that  the  king  may  more  safely 
proceed  further  in  the  business  as  ought  to  be  done  by  the  law  and 
custom  of  England  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  by  process 
before  the  said  justices  William  Goldene  is  outlawed  for  certain 
felonies  for  which  he  is  indicted,  that  at  the  procurement  of 
certain  his  enemies,  alleging  that  he  is  the  same  person  as  William 
Goldene  by  that  name  outlawed,  the  petitioner  is  by  the  sheriff  taken 
and  imprisoned,  although  he  is  not  the  person  so  outlawed  as  he  is 
ready  to  prove  before  the  king  in  the  octaves  aforesaid,  on  which  day 
by  writ  to  the  said  justices  addressed  the  king  has  commanded  that 
indictment  and  all  other  things  concerning  the  same  to  be  sent  before 
him,  shewing  that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things. 

Aug.  26.  To  Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  Oxfordshire.  Order,  upon  the 
Westminster,  petition  of  William  Burcestre,  if  he  shall  find  mainpernors  who  will 
mainpern  him  that  he  shall  answer  for  the  issues  of  his  lands  and  for 
the  price  and  true  value  of  his  goods  and  chattels  in  case  it  be  foiuvl 
that  he  is  the  person  outlawed  by  the  name  of  William  Goldene, 
to  stay  the  seizing  of  his  lands,  goods  and  chattels,  delivering 
to  him  by  such  mainprise  any  already  seized,  certifying  the  king 
under  seal  at  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  next  concerning  the 
same,  the  yearly  value  of  his  lands  in  all  issues,  the  price  and  true 
value  of  his  goods  and  chattels,  and  sending  this  writ,  so  that  the 
king  may  deal  further  as  ought  to  be  done  according  to  the  law  and 
custom  of  England  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  William  Burcestre 
is  afraid  that  at  the  procurement  of  certain  his  enemies,  alleging  that 
he  is  the  person  aforesaid,  his  lands,  goods  and  chattels  may  by  the 
sheriff  be  seized  into  the  kings  hand,  praying  the  king  to  save  him 
harmless. 

July  26.  To  Alan  de  Buxhill  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant.      Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Stury,  Nicholas  DagWOlth, 

Henry  de  Fcrrariis  and  Nicholas  Bonde  knights  to  set  tree -John  I'elche 

of    London,    whom    lately    Eor   particular  causes   the    king  commanded 

to  be  arrested  and  kept  in  sale  custody  in  the  said  Tower;   as   they 


438  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


I  176.  i/-  mbraiu  i>n</    cont. 

appearing  in  person  in  ohanoery  have  mainpemed  body  for  body  to 
have  him  before  the  king  and  oounoil  in  the  quinzaine  i»f  Michaelmas 
ni  \t  to  <lc  and  reoeive  what  Bhall  then  be  appointed. 

B)  K.  apon  information  of  the  treasurer  and  chamberlain. 

i't    1  John  Ray  alnager  of  cloth  in  the  (own  of  ( loventre  and  elsewhere 

Westminster,  in  Warwickshire.     Order    by    mainprise    of  John    Bosham   'mercer,' 

ihard  Russell  'gurdelere,'  William  Waleys  'gurdelere'  and  William 

Journeys    'gurdelere'    of    the    city    of    London   to   deliver   to   John 

Pabenham  of  Coventre  or  to  his  attorney  Kin  cloths  price  29s.  each, 

when  they  shall  he  sealed  with  the  seal  appointed  for  the  purpose; 

as  the  said  John  Bosham  and  the  others  have  mainpemed  in  chancery 

to  answer  to  the  king  for  those  cloths  or  for  the  price    thereof,  if    the 

same  shall  he  adjudged  a--  forfeit  to  the  king,  which  cloths  the  alnager 

has  taken   as  forfeit   into  the    king's  hand   for  that   John   Pabenham 

sold  them  when  they  were  not  so  sealed. 

Memorandum  that  John  Sampson  of  Plymmouth  and  Nicholas 
Fortescu  of  Plymouth,  who  on  2b'  July  this  year  made  in  chancery 
a  recognisance  for  2S0J.  6s.  to  Paravesinus  Paravcsin  merchant  of 
( Senoa  and  proctor  of  Moriel  de  Mary,  appearing  in  person  in  the  chancery 
at  Westminster  on  3  October  shewed  themselves  ready  to  content 
him  of  that  which  pertains  to  him  of  the  said  sum  for  Michaelmas 
term,  and  were  told  to  keep  the  money  in  hand  until  further  order 
because  the  said  Paravesinus  was  not  there  present  nor  any  other 
in  his  name  having  power  to  receive  the  same. 

Membrane  I9d. 

July  23.  To   the   sheriff   of   Bedford.     Order  by   mainprise    of   John   Fissh 

Westminster.  '  bruwer,'  John  Mite  '  pulter,'  John  Payn  '  pulter '  and  Robert  Payn 
'  cuteler  '  of  the  city  of  London  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's 
writ  de  judicio  against  Walter  Abel  and  Agnes  his  wife,  bringing  this 
writ  before  the  king  ;  as  by  the  said  writ  the  king  lately  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  take  the  said  Walter  and  Agnes  and  keep  them  in  safe 
custody  so  as  to  have  them  before  the  king  in  the  octaves  of 
Michaelmas  to  answer  Richard  Fille  concerning  an  alleged  trespass  ; 
and  on  their  behalf  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  they 
are  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
John  and  the  others  have  mainpemed  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  201. 
to  have  the  said  Walter  and  Agnes  before  the  king  at  that  day. 

The  like  writ  in  favour  of  the  same  persons  at  the  suit  of  Richard 
Fille  (sic)  by  the  same  mainpernors. 

Aug.  4.  To  Alan  de  Buxhill   constable  of   the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminst*  r.  lieutenant.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  de  Dagworth  knight, 
Roger  Tebaud  of  Suffolk,  John  Sewale,  Geoffrey  Dawe  of  Essex, 
Reynold  Loue,  Roger  atte  More,  John  de  Clopton,  John  de  Sherborne, 
John  de  Colsile,  Thomas  Heyward,  Thomas  Braghwyngge  and  John 
Roche  of  London  to  set  free  William  Elys  of  Great  Jernemuth 
imprisoned  in  the  Tower  for  particular  causes  ;  as  the  said  Nicholas  and 
the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainpemed  body 
for  body  to  have  the  prisoner  before  the  king  and  council  in  the  octaves 
of  Michaelmas  next  in  order  to  content  the  king  as  shall  be  there 
adjudged. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II. 


431) 


1376. 


Membrane  19c/ — cont. 


To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  execution 
of  the  king's  late  writ  against  Thomas  de  Multon  prior  of  Tiptre,  and 
the  taking  of  his  body  ;  as  learning  that  the  said  prior  was  purposing 
to  depart  over  sea  in  order  to  [prosecute]  many  tilings  to  the  prejudice 
of  the  king  and  crown,  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriff  to  attach 
him  and  keep  him  in  safe  custody  in  prison  until  he  should  find  security 
not  to  pass  thither  without  the  king's  special  licence,  nor  send  thither 
to  prosecute  aught  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown,  but  appear- 
ing in  person  in  chancery  the  prior  has  made  oath  that  he  will  not  go 
thither  without  such  licence,  nor  send  or  cause  to  be  sent  for  the 
purpose  aforesaid. 

Aug.  3.  To  the  true  men  of  the  town  of  Pokerich.     Order,  for  particular  causes 

Westminster,  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  henceforward  to  stay  the  taking  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  letters  patent  of  5  May  last  of  certain  customs  therein  speci- 
fied, and  the  troubling  or  hindering  of  any  man  by  colour  thereof,  applying 
any  moneys  by  them  taken  before  the  date  of  these  presents  to  the 
repair  and  maintenance  of  the  high  road  between  the  said  town  and 
Wadesmyll ;  as  in  aid  of  the  repair  of  that  road,  which  is  broken 
and  ruined  to  the  nuisance  and  peril  of  men  passing  by  it  is  said,  the 
king  by  his  said  letters  granted  that  for  two  years  from  that  date  they 
should  take  those  customs  by  the  hands  of  Richard  Taillour  of  Pokerich 
and  others  to  be  by  them  deputed,  for  whom  they  would  answer, 
so  that  the  money  thereof  arising  should  be  applied  to  the  repair 
aforesaid  and  to  no  other  uses. 


July  26.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  for  particular  causes  laid  before 
Westminster,  the  king  and  council,  to  cause  Adam  de  Bury  to  be  taken  wherever 
found  within  their  bailiwick,  and  to  be  delivered  by  indenture  to 
Alan  de  Buxhill  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  his  lieutenant, 
to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  in  the  Tower  prison  until  they  should  have 
other  order  of  the  king  for  his  deliverance.  The  king  has  commanded 
the  said  constable  and  lieutenant  to  receive  the  said  Adam  and  keep 
him  in  custody  as  aforesaid.  By  the  great  council. 

July  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suffolk.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Boterwyk, 
Westminster.  John  Yinge,  Roger  Pycot  and  Thomas  Wodeward  of  Suffolk  to  stay 
the  further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  directing  the  sheriff  to 
cause  John  Kyll  of  Haddele  to  come  before  him,  and  to  compel  him 
to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon 
them  for  which  the  sheriff  would  answer,  would  mainpern  that  he 
should  do  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to  John  Cook  of  Shelley,  and  if  he 
should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol  there  to  be  kept 
in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  as  that  writ  issued  at 
the  prayer  of  John  Cook,  averring  that  John  Kyll  threatened  him, 
but  the  said  John  Boterwyk  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  that  John  Kyll 
shall  cause  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  complainant. 

July  19.         To  John  Foxle  constable  of  Quenesburgh  castle,  and  to  his  lieutenant. 
Westminster.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Philip  de  Courtenay,  John  de  Burgh  the  elder, 

Thomas  Tryvet,  John  de  Burgh  the  younger,  Hugh  Tyrell,  Philip  de 
Pykworth  and  Roger  de  Boys  knights,  Robert  Qrsewyk  and  John 
Deyncourt   to   set   free   Thomas   de   Catcrton,    whom   for    particular 


WO  i   \i  i:\i.\i;  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Membran*    I9d    cont. 

-  tli<-  K  it  to  bo  imprisoned  in  the  said  castle  until  further 

order;  as  the  Baid  Philip  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  body  for  body  to  have  him  before  the  king 
and  council  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  nexl  there  to  answer 
touching  any  matters  which  shall  be  laid  against  him  on  the  king's 
behalf.  By  the  great  council. 

duly  22.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  dearresl  all  goods 

Wesfcmi]  ad  merchandise  of  Nicholas  Russell,  John  Credy,  Peter  Mark,  Nicholas 

Luk,  Bernard  George,  Francis  Johan  and  Bernard  Antoyn,  merchants 
of  the  fellowships  of  the  Strozzi  and  Albertini  dwelling  in  the  city  of 
London,  by  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  arrested  by  virtue  of  the  king's 
command,  suffering  the  said  merchants  by  mainprise  of  Walter  Fitz 
Wauter  and  Ouy  de  Brian  knights,  John  Aubrey,  John  Philipol 
and  John  Donet  citizens  and  merchants  of  London  freely  to  dispose 
thereof  ;  as  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council 
in  parliament  by  certain  merchants  of  Lincolnshire  the  king  ordered 
the  mayor  and  sheriffs  to  arrest  and  sate  keep  under  arrest  until 
further  order  all  goods  and  merchandise  of  merchants  of  those  fellow- 
ships found  within  their  bailiwick  :  but  the  said  knights  and  citizens, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  body  for  body  for 
the  merchants  named,  against  whom  the  merchants  of  Lincoln  have 
made  complaint,  to  have  them  before  the  king  and  council  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next  there  to  answer  touching  the  premises, 
which  slio.ll  then  be  fully  laid  before  them.  By  the  great  council. 

Aug.  It).  To  Roger  de  Fulthorp.  Order  to  continue  the  process  hereinafter 
Westminster,  mentioned  in  the  state  in  which  it  now  is,  to  repair  in  person 
to  the  Bewers  between  the  spring  called  Cameryngton  welle  by  Bonde- 
brustwyk  and  the  towns  of  Hedon  and  Pauleflete  upon  Humbre  in 
Holdemesse  CO.  York  and  survey  the  same,  and  to  inform  himself 
a-  he  shall  see  best  concerning  the  matters  hereinafter  rehearsed  and 
the  hurt  and  peril  that  might  happen  to  the  king  thereby  if  without 
advising  him  further  proceeding  should  be  taken,  in  order  that  he 
being  fully  instructed  may  certify  and  inform  the  king  and  council 
concerning  the  matter  when  he  shall  come  to  Westminster  in  the  octaves 
of  Michaelmas,  and  the  king  may  take  order  as  by  advice  of  the  council 
ought  to  be  done,  staying  meanwhile  any  process  whatsoever  upon 
a  presentment  against  tin;  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Brustewyk  in 
Holdemesse  and  against  others  whatsoever  ;  as  lately  the  king  by 
letters  patent  appointed  the  said  Roger,  and  certain  other  lieges  of 
whom  he  should  be  one,  to  survey  the  walls,  dikes,  gutters,  sewers, 
bridges,  causeways  and  sluices  between  the  said  spring  and  towns, 
and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  those  letters  contained  ;  and  now  by 
complaint  of  the  tenants  of  the  said  manor,  held  by  Ingelram  de 
Coucy  earl  of  Bedeford  and  Isabel  his  wife  the  king's  daughter  during 
the  said  Isabel's  lifer  by  the  king's  grant,  it  is  shewn  the  king  that 
by  virtue  of  the  said  commission  an  unlawful  presentment  is  before  the 
said  Roger  made  that  the  sewers  aforesaid  ought  to  be  and  used  to  be 
made  30  feet  in  breadth  and  12  feet  in  depth,  and  that  the  said  tenants 
and  others  having  tenements  adjacent  to  the  said  sewers  on  either 
side  are  bound  to  repair  and  make  them  of  such  breadth  and  depth, 
although  they  used  not  heretofore  and  ought  not  so  to  do,  save  that 
the  water  flowing  therein  might  enter  and  issue  without  flooding  the 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II. 


441 


1370.  Membrane  19d — cont. 

country  adjacent,  by  colour  of  which  presentment  they  are  day 
by  day  troubled  unlawfully,  and  if  further  proceeding  be  had  without 
advising  the  king  it  would  tend  to  disherison  of  the  king,  inasmuch 
as  the  reversion  of  the  said  manor  after  the  death  of  the  said  earl  and 
Isabel  pertains  to  him  and  his  heirs,  and  to  the  ruin  of  the  said  tenants 
and  others. 


Aug.  23.         To  the  master  and  brethren  of  the  house  or  hospital  of  Hornechirche. 

Pleshey.  Request  to  admit  to  their  house  Richard  Eton,  whom  the  king  is 
sending  to  them,  willing  for  his  good  service  to  make  provision  for  his 
maintenance,  and  to  grant  him  such  maintenance  or  office  for  life  as 
William  Husteler  deceased  had  at  the  king's  request,  making  him 
letters  patent  under  the  seal  of  the  house  with  mention  of  what  he 
shall  so  take,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at 
this  request.  By  p.s.  [31064.] 

Writing  of  John  de  Edensovere,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John  de 
Retford  parson  of  Silhampstede  Banastre,  John  Redese  of  She ff eld 
chaplain  and  Thomas  de  Sireston  clerk  of  all  lands,  rents,  services,  woods, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  commons,  ponds,  waters,  fisheries,  ways, 
paths,  hedges,  ditches,  homages,  reliefs,  escheats,  heriotsetc.  in  the  town 
and  parish  of  Chigewell  or  elsewhere  in  Essex  which  he  with  the  said 
John,  John  and  Thomas  lately  had  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Robert 
Wolman  clerk  and  Blase  de  Bury  citizen  and  skinner  of  London,  and 
of  the  reversion  of  all  lands  there  held  by  John  le  Herde  and  Agnes 
his  wife  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  de  Clay  for  life  of  the  said  Agnes  in 
name  of  her  dower.  Dated  London,  the  eve  of  the  Nativity  of  the 
Virgin  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  8  September,  before 
William  de  Burstall  keeper  of  the  rolls  of  chancery. 

Membrane  l8d. 

Aug.  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order,  upon  petition  of  John  Mey 

Westminster,  of  Byenstede  and  Richard  Peneys  (Pyneys),  by  mainprise  of  Robert 
Malteby,  Richard  Bernes,  Thomas  Sulhull  and  John  Wynchestre  of 
London  to  stay  the  exigents  against  them  and  the  taking  of  their 
bodies,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  the  day 
a  writ  de  judicio  against  them  at  the  suit  of  John  Milner  is  returnable  ; 
as  their  petition  shews  that  before  the  said  justices  John  Milner  is 
impleading  them,  John  Mey  to  render  112s.  and  the  said  Richard  40-5., 
that  by  the  said  writ  they  are  put  in  exigents  in  the  county  of  Suth- 
ampton to  be  outlawed  for  that  they  came  not  before  the  said  justices 
to  answer  him,  and  that  they  are  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right 
in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Robert  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in 
chancery  under  a  pain  of  10  marks  to  have  the  said  John  Mey  and 
Richard  before  the  said  justices  at  the  aforesaid  day. 


July  24.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  to  cause  proclamation  to  be  made 

Westminster.  (,n  the  king's  behalf  forbidding  any  merchant  or  other  of  whatsoever 
estate  or  condition  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof  secretly  or  openly 
to  take  or  cause  to  be  taken  any  wool,  hides  or  woolfells,  lead,  tin, 
'  worstedes,'  cheese,  butter,  down,  uoad,  honey,  felt  or  tallow  out 
of  England,  Ireland,  Wales  and  the  town  of    Berewic    upon   Twede 


14  J 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376, 


Mi  mbrant    ISd    <•<>»'. 


until  further  order  t<>  any  parts  over  sea  Bave  to  the  town  of  Calais; 

as    with    assent  of    the    prelates,  princes,  lords    and    others    sitting    in 

the  parliament  last  holden  at  Westminster  the  king  made  order  that 

the    staple    of    WOO\,    hide    and    woolfells,    of    lead,    tin.    cloth    called 

'  worstedes,'  oheese,  butter,  down,  wood,  honey,  felt  and  tallow  taken 

out  of  England,  Ireland.  Wales  and  Beivwic  upon  Twede  should  be 
at  Calais  and  nowhere  else  over  sea,  and  that  BUch  merchandise  should 
henceforward  be  taken  to  that  town  and  nowhere  else  over  sea  under 
pain  of  forfeiture  thereof.  By  K.  and  C.  in  pari. 

[Feeder  a.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Kssex,  to  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge 
constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports  or  his 
lieutenant,  and  to  the  sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

[Ibid. } 

Aug.  5.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Lovet 

minster.  0f  Bukmghamshire  and  Robert  atte  Pye  '  taillour '  of  the  city  of 
London  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  for  taking  the  body 
of  Robert  Waryner,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  West- 
minster ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff 
to  take  Robert  Waryner,  if  found  within  his  bailiwick,  and  to  keep 
him  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices 
in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  to  answer  John  Smewes  concerning 
an  alleged  trespass  ;  and  petition  is  made  on  behalf  of  the  defendant 
for  a  stay,  shewing  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in 
all  things  ;  and  the  said  John  Lovet  and  Robert  atte  Pye  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  201.  to  have  him  before  the 
said  justices  at  that  day. 


Aug.  17.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Bures, 
Westminster.  Robert  Gurdeler,  William  Wodhouse,  Thomas  Irland,  John  Sely, 
Ellis  de  Thorp,  Thomas  Virly,  Reynold  Aleyn,  William  Olivere,  Andrew 
Coggeshale,  Blase  de  Bury  and  William  Horscroft  of  London  to  stay  the 
taking  of  the  body  of  Adam  de  Bury  citizen  of  London  and  the  arrest 
of  his  goods  and  chattels,  dearresting  any  already  arrested,  but 
certifying  the  king  and  council  at  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next 
of  what  they  shall  do  at  this  command,  and  of  the  price  and  true  value 
of  any  goods  and  chattels  so  arrested,  and  sending  this  writ ;  as  on 
28  May  last,  for  particular  causes  [laid]  before  the  king  and  council 
in  the  parliament  last  holden  at  Westminster,  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriffs  to  arrest  and  safe  keep  under  arrest  until  further  order  all  goods 
and  chattels  of  the  said  Adam  wherever  found  within  their  bailiwick, 
certifying  in  chancery  under  seal  the  quantity,  description  and  true 
value  thereof  ;  and  after  on  26  July  following  by  another  writ  the 
king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  take  the  said  Adam  wherever  found  in 
their  bailiwick,  and  deliver  him  by  indenture  to  Alan  de  Buxhull 
constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  his  lieutenant  to  be  kept  in  their 
custody  in  the  Tower  prison  until  further  order  of  the  king  for  his 
deliverance  ;  but  the  said  John  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  body  for  body  to  have  him  before  the 
king  and  council  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  in  order  to  answer 
touching  whatsoever  shall  be  laid  against  him  on  the  king's  behalf, 
and  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  be  by  the  council  appointed.     By  C. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  443 


137G.  Membrane  18d — cent. 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  concerning 
the  said  Adam's  goods  and  chattels,  although  on  5  June  last  the  king 
ordered  the  sheriff  with  all  possible  speed  ceasing  every  excuse  to 
arrest  the  same  and  his  property  whatsoever  in  the  sheriff's  bailiwick 
within  liberties  and  without,  to  seize  them  into  the  king's  hand  and 
keep  them  under  arrest  without  removal  of  aught  until  further  order, 
certifying  etc.  in  chancery,  and  sending  again  that  writ.         By  C. 

Aug.  16.         To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  and  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant.     Order    to    receive    William    de    Wyndesore    knight    and 
keep  him  in  safe  custody  in  the  Tower  prison  until  further  order. 

Aug.  20.  To  the  same.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Ralph  Basset  of  Drayton, 
Westminster.  Guichard  Dangle,  Ralph  de  Ferrers,  Lewis  de  Clyfford,  Matthew  de 
Redemane,  Henry  de  Ferrers  and  Thomas  de  Rokeby  to  set  free 
William  de  Wyndesore  from  the  Tower  prison,  although  lately  the 
king  ordered  the  constable  and  lieutenant  to  receive  him  and  keep 
him  there  in  safe  custody  until  further  order  ;  as  the  said  Ralph  and 
the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  body 
for  body  to  have  him  before  the  king  and  council  upon  reasonable 
notice  when  and  as  often  as  the  king  in  council  shall  please,  in  order 
to  answer  touching  whatsoever  shall  be  laid  against  him,  and  to  do 
and  receive  what  shall  be  by  the  king  and  council  appointed.     By  C. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  body  for  body  made  by  John  Shordich, 
Richard  Galeys,  Giles  Pikman  and  Thomas  Charleton  of  Middlesex, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery  27  August  tins  year,  to  have  John 
Brokhampton  before  the  council  at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of 
Michaelmas  next,  and  that  in  the  mean  time  he  shall  not  prosecute 
or  procure  aught  that  may  tend  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  or  crown 
or  of  the  laws. 

Aug.  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Gerlethorp 
Westminster,  clerk,  John  de  Feryby  of  Barton,  Thomas  de  Gerlethorp  clerk  and 
Peter  de  Cave  clerk  of  Lincolnshire  to  set  free  from  prison  John  de 
Save  of  Normanby  whom  Peter  Hiliard  has  taken  and  is  detaining 
it  is  said,  and  if  the  said  [John]  de  Save  shall  give  security  for  prosecut- 
ing his  claim,  to  put  Peter  Hiliard  at  bail  by  safe  sureties  to  be  before 
the  king  three  weeks  after  Michaelmas  in  order  to  answer  John  de 
Save  concerning  his  imprisonment  and  damages  for  such  imprison- 
ment and  claim,  bringing  thither  the  names  of  such  sureties,  also 
this  writ  ;  as  the  king  many  times  ordered  the  sheriff  to  replevy 
John  de  Save,  or  to  signify  the  cause  wherefore  he  would  not  or  might 
not  execute  the  king's  command  at  other  times  to  him  addressed,  and 
the  sheriff  signified  that  he  caused  John  Frankissh  bailiff  of  the  liberty 
of  Holdernesse  to  have  the  return  of  that  writ,  to  whom  it  remained  to 
execute  the  same,  and  that  he  answered  the  sheriff  that  he  might 
not  replevy  John  de  Save  for  that  Peter  Hiliard  claims  liim  as  his  neif, 
so  that  at  present  the  sheriff  might  not  execute  the  king's  command  ; 
and  now  on  behalf  of  John  de  Save  petition  is  made  to  the  king  to  set 
him  free,  shewing  that  he  is  a  free  man  and  ready  to  prove  his  freedom  ; 
and  the  said  Robert  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery, 
under  a  pain  of  40£.  to  have  him  before  the  king  three  weeks  after 
Michaelmas  to  answer  concerning  the  premises. 


ill  I    \l. i:\D\K  OF  CLOSE  KohLS. 


1  ;7«>.  \iembrmu    L8d    cant, 

i     the  sherifl  oi  York.     Like  order,  mutatis  mutandis,  in  favour  of 
\\  i  Ilia  in  de  Cave  i>i"  Nbrmanby  whom  the  prior  of  Drax  baa  taken  eto. 

nl  aiming  Liin  as  the  licit"  of  John  (If   Kotherhy   who  is  within  age  and 

in  thr  prior's  wardship. 

Sept.  28.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Fox, 
\\Y.-iiniii>ti  r.  liy  mainprise  of  John  CarnelT,  John  Bentelowe,  Robert  Middelton 
and  Richard  Ostiler  of  Nbrhamptonshire  to  stay  the  execution  of  the 
king's  writ  against  him  at  the  suit  of  John  Prat  clerk  executor  of 
Thomas  de  Criklade,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  by  the  said  writ  he  is  put  in  exigents 
in  the  busting  of  London  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before 
the  said  justices  to  answer  the  said  executor  concerning  the  payment 
to  him  of  1<»  marks,  and  that  he  i.s  ready  to  answer  the  day  the  said 
writ  is  returnable;  and  the  said  John  CarnelT  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
10  marks  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  at  that  day. 

Membrane  17'/. 

Letters  patent  of  Gerald  de  Tartays  lord  of  Puyan,  Raymond  de 
Mounthaut  lord  of  Mussenden,  Galyart  Durefort  lord  of  Duras  and 
Arnald  lord  of  Curton  of  Gascony  knights  and  Bernard  de  la  Spare 
lord  of  Lebard  esquire,  being  a  joint  and  several  bond  to  the  king 
in  1,000  marks  for  the  lord  of  Poys  his  French  prisoner  of  war  whom 
the  said  lord  of  Puyan  has  bought  of  him,  to  be  paid  at  the  city  of 
Bourdeaux  by  the  hands  of  the  constable  there  for  the  time  being 
within  four  years,  to  wit  125  marks  at  Easter  next,  125  marks  at 
Michaelmas  next,  125  marks  at  Easter  following,  125  marks  at 
Michaelmas  following,  125  marks  at  Easter  following,  125  marks 
at  Michaelmas  following,  125  marks  at  Easter  following,  and  125  marks 
at  Michaelmas  following,  binding  themselves,  and  their  heirs,  their  lands, 
lordships,  goods  and  chattels  on  either  side  of  the  sea  in  case  of  default 
to  pay  double  by  the  hands  of  the  said  constable  or  any  other  by  the 
king  appointed.  Sealed  in  presence  of  Sir  John  Knyvet  the  chancellor, 
Sir  Robert  de  Assheton  the  treasurer  knights,  Nicholas  Carreu  keeper 
of  the  privy  seal,  Sir  Ralph  de  Ferrers  knight.  Dated  London,  19 
August  1376,  50  Edward  111.     French. 

Attestation  of  John  de  Fangfosse  clerk  of  the  diocese  of  York  notary 
public,  in  the  great  chamber  within  the  inn  of  the  bishop  of  Saresbirs 
in  Fletstret  London.     French. 

[Fcedera.] 

Notarial  instrument,  being  a  joint  and  several  recognisance  made 
to  the  king  1  September  1370  in  the  hall  within  the  inn  of  the  bishop 
of  Exeter  without  New  Temple  Bar  London  before  Nicholas  Carreu 
keeper  of  the  privy  seal,  by  Sir  Raymond  de  Mounthaut  lord  of 
Mussenden  of  Aquitainc  knight  and  Bernard  de  la  Spare  lord  of  Lebard 
of  Aquitainc  esquire,  appearing  there  in  person,  for  200/.  to 
them  lent  in  the  city  of  London  by  the  hands  of  Sir  Robert  de  Assheton 
knight  the  treasurer  and  payable  in  the  city  of  Bourdeaux  by  the 
hands  of  the  constable  there  for  the  time  being  or  of  his  attorney 
producing  this  instrument,  namely  100/.  on  Easter  day  next  and 
100/.   on  Michaelmas  day  following,   binding  themselves,  their  heirs 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  445 


1376.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

and  executors,  and  their  goods  on  either  side  of  the  sea  for  payment, 
with  an  oath  upon  the  gospels  that  after  those  terms  past  without 
payment  made  they  will  hear  no  arms  nor  he  present  in  arms  at  war 
or  tournament  or  in  any  place  whatsoever  save  in  the  king's  service 
or  in  defence  of  their  lands  and  lordships  against  invasions  of  the 
king's  enemies  until  full  payment  shall  be  made,  and  expressly 
renouncing  any  exceptions,  prohibitions  and  appeals  whereby  a  demand 
for  the  money  may  be  hindered.  Witnesses  :  Sir  William  de  Burstall 
keeper  of  the  rolls  of  chancery,  Sir  Ralph  de  Kesteven  rector  of  St. 
Botolph  clerks  of  the  king's  household,  and  William  de  York  esquire 
of  the  dioceses  of  Lincoln,  London  and  York  respectively. 

Attestation  of  John  de  Fangfosse  clerk  of  the  diocese  of  York  notary 
public. 

Sept    I.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Burnham 

Westminster,  parson  of  Holy  Trinity  the  Less,  John  Coveney  '  drapere,'  Thomas 
Nichol  chaplain,  Walter  de  Wodeland  '  fysshe monger,'  Richard  son  of 
Geoffrey  '  smyth  '  and  William  Bedeford  of  the  city  of  London  to 
set  free  John  Crayford  otherwise  called  John  Bedeford  chaplain  from 
prison,  although  lately  at  the  procurement  of  Simon  de  Kegworth, 
averring  that  the  prisoner  threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs  and  to  burn 
his  houses,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  the  prisoner  to  come 
before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a 
pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  set  for  which  they  would  answer,  would 
mainpern  that  he  should  do  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to  complainant's 
person  or  houses,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  prison 
there  to  abide  until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  and  although  for  the 
aforesaid  cause  and  for  that  it  was  witnessed  by  Thomas  de 
Shardelowe  that  for  particular  causes  he  is  indicted  before  the  justices 
of  the  peace  in  Kent,  the  prisoner  is  committed  to  Neugate  prison  ; 
as  the  said  Richard  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainpemed  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  100  marks,  and  to  have 
the  prisoner  before  the  said  justices  at  the  next  day  of  their  session  there  or 
elsewhere  at  the  king's  command  to  answer  touching  the  said  indictment. 

Sept.  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.     Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Tredegolde 

Westminster,  of  Barton,  Robert  Thryft  and  John  Glover  of  Barton  of  Lincolnshire 
to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  ordering  the  sheriff 
to  cause  John  Wraweby  of  Barton  to  come  before  him,  and  to  compel 
him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid 
upon  them  for  which  the  sheriff  would  answer,  would  mainpern  that 
lie  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  John  Saltmerssh 
of  Barton  the  elder,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the 
nearest  gaol  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  should  find 
such  security  ;  as  that  writ  issued  at  the  prayer  of  the  said  John 
Saltmerssh,  averring  that  John  Wraweby  threatened  him  in  life  and 
limbs  ;  but  the  said  William  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  201. 

Membrane  \Qd. 

Sept.  24.        John  Greyndore  of  Abenhale  and  Ralph  Greyndore   of  Mitcheldean 
Westminster.  (Magna     Dene)    of    Gloucestershire    to    Thomas    de    Bukyngham. 
Recognisance  for  2G  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
their  lands  and  chattels  in  the  said  county. 


no 


I   \l.i\i'  \i:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376. 


Mcmbram    HW — coiti. 


Sept.  14.        To  the  Bheriff  of  Cantebrigge.     Order  by  mainprise  <»f  John  W'yac- 

Wi •-tmin-t.T.  beoh  and  Etiohard  Pyke  of  Staunton  of  Cambridgeshire,  John  Pakynton 
of  London  '  sadder '  and  John  Kynnys  of  London  '  Badelez '  to  stay 
the  farther  publication  of  the  exigents  against  Henry  Marlebergh 
chaplain,  and  the  taking  of  his  body  ;  as  William  Lowet  lord  of  Lys- 
oumbe  and  Alice  his  wife  are  impleading  the  said  Henry  in  Cambridge- 
shire before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  for  an  alleged  debt, and  defendant 
i-  there  pul  in  exigents  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before 
the  s;iid  justices  to  answer  them,  being  altogether  without  knowledge 
thereof  ;  and  the  defendant  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing 
that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the 
said  John  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  main- 
perned  under  a  pain  of  10/.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices 
the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable. 


Sept.  17. 
We-t  minster. 


To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.  Order  to  stay  until  the  quinzaine  of 
Michaelmas  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  concerning  the  goods 
and  chattels  of  Edmund  Rose,  releasing  any  distress  by  him  made  ; 
as  by  virtue  of  an  exchequer  writ  the  said  Edmund  is  distrained  for 
37/.  of  a  prist.  10  marks  for  the  keeping  of  a  third  part  of  the  manor 
of  Peryndon,  and  7  quarters  of  oats  by  him  owed  to  the  king  as  the 
king  has  learned  ;  and  the  king  would  shew  special  favour  to  the  said 
Edmund,  who  is  by  the  king's  order  abiding  on  his  service  in  the  island 
of  Jersey  upon  the  furnishing  of  the  king's  castle. 

Sept.  27.         ( 'lement  Merk  the  king's  Serjeant  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent 

Havering     of  Bath  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  Hugh 

manor.       Styventon  '  fauconer  '  deceased  in  his  life  time  had  there  at  the  king's 

command.  By  p.s.  [31085.] 

Writing  of  William  Martyn  of  Leycestre,  being  a  general  release  to 
John  Cook  of  Leycestre  of  all  actions  real  and  personal.  Dated 
London,  the  parish  of  St.  Bride  Fletstrete,  Monday  the  feast  of  St. 
Edward  the  King  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
14  October. 

Oct.  15.  Peter  de  Bratton  to  John  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  20/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Somerset. 


Charter  of  Roger  de  Asshebournham,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Hugh  de  Badewe  knight,  Walter  Frost,  Ellis  Thorp,  Sir  Robert  de 
Chilton  chaplain,  Sir  Thomas  de  Cuntasthorp  chaplain,  Thomas  Joel 
clerk  and  Henry  de  Crofton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  Ins  manor  of 
Gasselyns  with  appurtenances  in  Hatfeld  and  Beyford,  and  all  his 
lands  in  Brykyndon,  Holewell  and  Hertfordyngbury  and  in  Hatfeld 
and  Beyford  co.  Hertford,  which  he  had  by  gift  of  Simon  Leke 
knight,  with  homages,  rents,  services,  reversions,  liberties,  warrens, 
meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  commons,  woods,  groves,  fishponds, 
fisheries  etc.  Witnesses  :  Robert  de  Louthe,  John  Olneye,  John 
Lodeford,  John  Dauneye,  John  Mcdebroke,  Simon  Pekkevyle,  Robert 
Pomesbourne.   Dated  Beyford,  Tuesday  before  St.  Luke  50  Edward  III. 


50  EDWARD  III.- Part  II.  447 


1376.  Membrane  \§d — cont. 

Writing  of  Roger  do  Asshebournham,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
appointing  Sir  William  Hyndelegh  rector  of  Esyngdene,  William 
Berdene,  John  Crouche  and  Robert  Bret  to  deliver  to  Hugh  de  Bade  wo 
knight,  Walter  Frost,  Ellis  Thorp,  Sir  Robert  de  Chilton  chaplain, 
Sir  Thomas  Cuntasthorp  chaplain,  Thomas  Joel  clerk  and  Henry 
Crofton  seisin  of  his  manor  of  Gasselyns  with  appurtenances  in  Hatfeld 
and  Beyford  co.  Hertford,  and  of  all  his  lands  etc.  in  Brykyndon, 
Holewell  and  Hertfordyngbury  and  in  Hatfeld  and  Beyford,  according 
to  his  charter.     Dated  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  16  October. 

Writing  of  John  Mildenhale  '  carpenter  '  of  Cantebrigge,  being  a 
bond  to  Thomas  Rokwode  in  20/.  payable  at  Rothyng  Abbesse  on  the 
Purification  next.  Dated  Rothing  Abbesse,  Thursday  after  St. 
Edward  the  King  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  October. 

Letters  patent  of  John  Bullok  of  Folquardeby,  reciting  that  he  being 
seised  in  fee  simple  of  a  messuage,  15  acres  of  land,  1  acre  of  meadow 
and  4  acres  of  moor  in  Folquardeby  co.  York,  and  of  the  reversion  of 
9  acres  of  land  in  that  town  held  in  dower  of  his  heritage  by  Margaret 
his  mother  who  was  wife  of  John  Bullok,  by  deed  indented  bearing 
date  Folquardeby  the  feast  of  Corpus  Christi  49  Edward  III  made 
a  lease  of  the  premises  for  six  years  from  Martinmas  49  Edward  III 
to  William  Pyot  of  Gerlethorp  at  a  rent  of  15s.  a  year  payable  at 
Whitsuntide  and  Martinmas  by  even  portions  ;  that  he  then  by 
deed  of  feoffment  bearing  date  Folquardeby  8  September  that  year 
made  a  feoffment  in  fee  simple  thereof  and  of  the  said  reversion 
to  Robert  de  Gerlethorp  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  taking  of  him 
a  sum  of  money  fully  paid,  that  William  Pyot  surrendered  his  estate 
therein  to  the  said  Robert,  that  by  collusion  between  him  and  others 
of  his  counsel  to  disturb  the  said  Robert  of  his  bargain,  the  said  William 
coveting  that  the  said  John  should  have  enfeoffed  him  and  his  heirs  for 
ever  thereof,  they  surmised  a  false  deed  of  rent  charge,  whereby  the  said 
John  granted  to  the  said  William  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever  20s.  yearly 
to  be  taken  of  the  premises,  whereas  save  the  aforesaid  lease  no  bargain 
was  ever  made  between  the  said  William  and  John  concerning  the 
premises,  and  no  payment  was  ever  made,  which  deed  bears  date 
before  the  feoffment  made  to  the  said  Robert,  as  the  said  William  has 
told  the  men  of  the  country,  and  that  on  11  September  49  Edward  III 
at  Gerlethorp  the  said  William  caused  the  said  John  to  be  brought  to 
his  house  there  and  by  force  made  him  seal  the  said  false  deed  against 
his  will,  which  deed  the  said  John  hereby  acknowledges  to  have  been 
Muled  three  days  after  the  feoffment  made  to  the  said  Robert,  and 
binding  himself  during  his  life  so  far  as  he  may  to  prove  all  these 
matters  before  all  judges  and  others  whatsoever.  Dated  London,  in 
presence  of  Thomas  Cornewaleys  alderman,  William  de  Stokesby, 
Thomas  Methelane,  William  Sharpyng  citizens  of  the  said  town, 
21  October  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  October. 

Oct.  22.  William  de  Karlell  clerk  to  Thomas  de  Middelton   canon  of  the 

Westminster,  church  of  Ferns  in  Ireland  and  prebendary  of  Crospatrik  therein. 


jj^  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1,'>7<>.  M<  mliniiii    \(\d — com/. 

Eteoognisaaoe  for  i2< ►' »  marks  payable   i<>  marks  at   Midsummer  1378, 
and  thenoeforward  i<»  marks  a  year,  (<>  be  levied,  in  default  oi  payment, 

of  bifl  lands,  ohattelfl  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in   Inland. 

Ml  mi;i:  INM  IM, 

Writing  of  Anno  countess  of  Pembroke  and  dame  do  Manny, 
being  a  lease  with  warranty  for  \a\  years  to  hor  mother  Margaret 
Man--,  hall  counters  of  NoilTolk  and  dame  de  Segrave  of  all  the  said 
Anne's  castles,  honours,  towns,  manors,  land-,  rents,  serviees  and 
OUStomfl  of  free  men  and  neifs,  fees,  advowsons  of  abbeys,  priories, 
parish  ehurehes,  chapels  and  chantries,  liberties,  warrens,  parks, 
chacee,  fisheries  etc.,  rendering  one  rose  yearly  at  Midsummer  for 
all  services,  claims  and  demands  and  performing  the  services  .and 
charges  of  right  due  for  the  same,  provided  that  if  her  said  mother 
-hall  die  within  that  term  the  premises  shall  revert  wholly  to  the 
said  Anne  in  her  former  estate.  Dated  London,  St.  Matthew's  day 
60 Edward  III.  French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  London,  12  October,  before 
John  Knyvet  knight  the  chancellor  and  William  de  Burstall  keeper 
of  the  rolls  of  chancery. 

Indenture  made  between  Margaret  Mareschall  countess  of  Norffolk 
and  dame  de  Segrave  of  the  one  part  and  Anne,  her  daughter, 
countess  of  Pembroke  and  dame  de  Mauny  of  the  other  part, 
witnessing  a  grant  made  by  the  said  Anne  to  her  said  mother  of  all 
the  manors,  lands,  rents  and  services,  customs,  franchises,  liberties, 
warrens,  parks,  fisheries  and  the  profits  thereof  arising,  the  wardship 
whereof  the  king  by  letters  patent  has  granted  and  to  farm  let  to 
the  said  Anne  until  the  full  age  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  de 
Hastynges  earl  of  PeniDroke  her  husband,  the  same  having  come 
to  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  heir,  paying 
to  the  king  the  farm  to  him  reserved  by  the  said  letters  patent  and 
all  other  charges  whatsoever,  provided  that  if  her  said  mother  shall 
die  within  that  term,  the  premises  shall  revert  to  the  said  Anne  during 
the  same  term,  this  grant  notwithstanding  ;  and  covenant  by  the 
said  Margaret  that  if  her  said  daughter  shall  survive  her  during  that 
term  she  shall  hold  the  premises  as  aforesaid,  and  the  said  Margaret's 
executors  shall  be  bound  to  discharge  the  same  toward  the  king  and 
every  other  of  all  manner  of  farms  and  charges  for  the  time  that  the 
said  Margaret  shall  have  the  occupation  thereof.  Dated  London,  St. 
Matthew's  day  50  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties  (as  the  last). 

Writing  of  Anne  countess  of  Pembroke  and  dame  de  Mauny,  being 
a  surrender  to  her  mother  Margaret  Mareschall  countess  of  Norffolk 
and  dame  de  Segrave  of  all  her  estate  in  the  castle  and  lordship  of 
Strughuyll  with  the  town  of  Chippestowe  and  in  the  manor  of 
Tod  en  ham  which,  by  deed  indented  of  12  July  46  Edward  IIT,  the 
said  Margaret  granted  and  to  farm  let  to  the  said  Anne  and  John  de 
Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  her  husband  for  forty  years,  with  all 
royalties,  franchises,  seignories  etc.,  and  with  all  the  said  Margaret's 
lands  in  Wales  thereto  pertaining  ;  this  surrender  being  made  upon 
condition  that,  if  the  said  Margaret  shall  die  within  the  said  term  of 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part  II.  440 


1376.  Membrane  \5d — cont. 

forty  years  in  the  life  time  of  the  said  Anne,  the  said  Anne  may  enter 
again  and  hold  the  premises  until  the  end  thereof.     Dated   London, 
St.  Matthew's  day  50  Edward  III.     French. 
Memorandum   of   acknowledgment    (as   above). 

Writing  of  John  de  Terstwode,  son  and  heir  of  William  son  of 
Richard  de  Terstwode  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  heing  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Joan  who  was  wife  of  William  Malewayn,  and  to 
Isabel  de  Camoys  abbess  of  Romesey  and  her  successors,  of  a  mill, 
2  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow,  7  acres  of  wood,  100  acres  of  pasture 
and  100  acres  of  turbary  in  Terstwode  now  held  for  life  by  the  said 
Joan  with  remainder  to  the  said  abbess  and  her  successors,  of  which, 
by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  late  king's  court  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  11  Edward  II,  between 
Richard  de  Terstwode  plaintiff  and  Thomas  de  Grymstede  deforciant 
of  the  manor  of  Terstwode  and  appurtenances,  he  the  said  John  de 
Terstwode  lately  in  the  king's  court  before  the  said  Justices  at 
Westminster  craved  execution  against  the  said  Joan  ;  as  he  is  now 
informed  by  many  evidences  produced  to  him  that  the  premises  are 
not  comprised  in  the  said  fine  nor  were  they  parcel  of  the  said  manor 
at  the  time  the  same  was  levied.  Witnesses  :  Hugh  de  Camoys  knight, 
Walter  de  Haywode,  Thomas  le  Warner,  William  de  Houghton, 
William  de  Putton,  Alan  Sampson,  John  Forster  (Forester)  of  Romeseye. 
Dated  Romeseye,  Sunday  the  feast  of  St.  Margaret  50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  de  Terstwode,  son  and  heir  of  William  son  of 
Richard  de  Terstwode  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Richard  atte  Forde  and  Agnes  his  wife,  and  to 
Isabel  de  Camoj^s  abbess  of  Romesey  and  her  sucessors,  of  a  messuage, 
20  acres  of  land,  2  acres  of  meadow  and  2  acres  of  wood  in  Terstwode 
now  held  for  life  by  the  said  Richard  atte  Forde  and  Agnes  with 
remainder  to  the  abbess  and  her  successors,  of  which,  by  virtue  of  a 
fine  levied  in  the  late  king's  court  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench 
in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  11  Edward  II  between  Richard  de 
Terstewode  plaintiff  and  Thomas  de  Grymstede  deforciant  of  the 
manor  of  Terstwode  with  appurtenances,  he  the  said  John  lately 
in  the  king's  court  before  the  said  justices  at  Westminster  craved 
execution  against  the  said  Richard  atte  Forde  and  Agnes  ;  as  he  is 
now  informed  by  many  evidences  produced  to  him  that  the  premises 
are  not  comprised  in  the  said  fine,  nor  were  they  parcel  of  the  said 
manor  at  the  time  the  same  was  levied.  Witnesses  and  date  (as 
the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  in 
the  chancery  at  Westminster,  17  October. 

Membrane  l Ad. 

Indenture  witnessing  a  grant  made  by  Walter  fitz  Wauter  lord 
of  Wodham  to  Ellen  Jerome  of  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  to  be  taken  after 
the  death  of  Sir  Walter  fitz  Wauter  son  of  Sir  Robert  fitz  Wauter 
uncle  of  the  grantor,  if  he  shall  die  without  issue,  of  the  manor  of 
Flete  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  during  the  said 
Ellen's  life  upon  the  conditions  following,  namely  that  if  she  be 
wedded  to  the  said  Sir  Walter  the  uncle  or  shall  take  him  for  husband 
in  time  to  come  this  giant  shall  be  void,  that  payment  shall  be  in 

cr  29 


<   \l.K\D\R    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


,(',.  Membran>    L4d     OOllt. 

MUpense  during  the  life  of  Sir  Walter  the  uncle  and  of  his  issue  if 
in  time  t<>  OOme  he  shall  have  any,  that  if  he  shall  die  without  issue, 
or  his  issue  shall  die   without    issue  in   her  life  time,  this  giant  shall 

tak<-  effeot  and  not  otherwise,  granting  the  said  Ellen  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears  in  the  said  manor  under  the  conditions  aforesaid,  and  to 
her  executors  and  administrators  likewise  if  the  rent  he  in  arreai 
it  her  death  :  and  to  put.  her  in  possession  thereof  the  grantor  has 
this  dav  at  the  said  manor  paid  her  \2d.  Dated  London,  5  Octoher, 
50     Edward     III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  Octoher. 

Charter  indented  of  Walter  fitz  Wauter  knight  lord  of  Wodeham, 
son  of  Sir  John  fitz  Wauter  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Walter 
fitz  Wauter  the  older  his  uncle  for  life,  without  impeachment  of 
waste,  two  thirds  of  all  lands,  knights'  fees,  rents  and  services  in  the 
town  of  Flcte,  which  were  lately  of  Dame  Joan  fitz  Wauter,  as  fully 
as  Thomas  do  Coulyng  lately  granted  the  same  and  the  third  part 
thereof  to  the  said  Joan  for  life  by  a  charter  of  four  parts,  to  hold  of 
Walter  the  grantor  and  of  his  heirs  by  the  service  of  one  rose  yearly, 
performing  the  services  thereof  due  and  accustomed  to  the  chief 
lords  of  the  fee,  with  reversion  to  the  said  Walter  the  grantor  and 
to  his  heirs  ;  also  giving  with  warranty  to  his  said  uncle  and  to  the 
heirs  of  his  hody  the  third  part  of  the  premises  as  fully  as  he  had 
the  same  by  his  said  uncle's  gift  and  feoffment,  with  reversion  for 
lack  of  issue  to  Walter  the  grantor  and  to  his  heirs  ;  and  this  feoffment 
is  made  upon  condition  that  if  Ellen  Jerome  was  heretofore  wedded 
to  the  said  Walter  the  uncle,  or  if  he  shall  hereafter  take  her  to  wife, 
or  if  he  shall  grant  to  any  person  any  rent  of  the  premises  or  parcel 
thereof  otherwise  than  during  his  own  life  only,  it  shall  be  lawful 
for  Walter  the  grantor  and  for  his  heirs  to  enter  again  and  hold  the 
premises  in  his  former  estate,  also  that  if  the  said  Walter  the  uncle 
shall  alien  the  premises  or  any  parcel  thereof  in  fee  to  any  person, 
or  make  a  release  thereof  with  warranty  to  any  person  being  in 
possession  thereof,  it  shall  likewise  be  lawful  for  Walter  the  grantor 
to  enter  again  and  hold  the  same  his  feoffment  notwithstanding. 
Dated  London,  25  October  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  20  October. 

Charter  of  John  Wombe  of  Hempstede,  giving  with  warranty  to 
William  Bateman  of  Harlcton,  Hugh  Imworth,  John  Payn  of  Swafham, 
Thomas  Colbayn,  Thomas  West  of  Branketre  and  John  Heldere 
of  the  same,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  whole  manor  called  Olmestede 
Halle  with  all  his  lands  in  Olmestede  co.  Cantebrigge  sometime  of 
Robert  de  Olmestede,  and  all  his  lands  with  services  of  free  tenants 
and  neifs  in  the  towns  of  Hempstede,  Bompstede  Helyon  and 
Fynchyngfeld  co.  Essex.  Witnesses  :  William  Lavenham,  William 
Alewyn,  Robert  de  Lynne,  William  Bennygton,  Edward  Bondyssh. 
Dated  Hempstede,  Wednesday  after  All  Saints  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   0  November. 

Nov.  10.         John  de  Herle  knight  and  Andrew  de  Herle  to  Robert  de  Kendale 
We3tminster.  knight.    Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  40Z.  payable  by  instalments  ; 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 
Worcestershire. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  451 


1376.  Membrane  14d — cont. 

Charter  of  Robert  de  Bernetby  of  Barton  upon  Humbre,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Peter  Gyke  of  Barton  clerk,  John  de  Ouresby,  Richard 
de  Beseby  of  the  same,  John  de  Theleby  of  Thelby  by  Burton, 
John  de  Otteby  of  Kelby,  Robert  Batmane  of  Barton  and  Jolin  Browne 
son  of  John  Browne  of  Bernetby,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  messuages, 
tofts,  crofts,  lands,  rents,  meadows,  services  and  reversions  in  Barton 
upon  Humbre  which  the  grantor  has  at  this  date  in  the  town,  territory 
and  meadows  of  Barton.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Thomas  de  Kydale  knight, 
John  de  Repyngale  then  steward  of  the  lord  of  Barton,  John  de 
Wyllughby  clerk  of  his  court  and  council,  Richard  de  Louth  then 
bailiff  of  Barton,  Hugh  de  Feriby  of  Barton,  William  de  Garton 
of  the  same,  William  Smyth  of  the  same  John  atte  Brigge  of  the  same. 
Dated  Barton  upon  Humbre,  Thursday  after  Michaelmas  1376 
50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  10  November. 

Charter  of  Robert  de  Bernetby  of  Barton  upon  Humbre,  giving 
with  warranty  to  Peter  Gyke  of  Barton  clerk,  John  de  Ouresby, 
Richard  de  Beseby  of  the  same,  John  de  Theleby  of  Thelby  by  Barton 
(sic),  John  de  Otteby  of  Kelby,  Robert  Batmane  of  Barton  and  John 
Browne  son  of  John  Browne  of  Bernetby,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
all  lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions  in  Bernetby,  Grymesby  and 
South  Feriby  which  the  grantor  has  at  tliis  date.  Witnesses  and 
date  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  November. 

Membrane  13d. 

Charter  of  Hugh  de  Hastynges  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
Nicholas  de  Everyngham  and  Clement  Walsche  clerk,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  the  manor  of  Norton  co.  York  with  advowsons,  knights'  fees, 
reversions  of  dower  and  other  life  estates,  rents,  services,  customs  of  free 
tenants  and  neifs  and  other  appurtenances  whatsoever,  except  the  manor 
of  Fenwyk  and  all  his  lands,  rents,  services  and  customs  of  free  tenants 
and  neifs,  his  meadows,  woods,  commons,  feedings  and  pastures  in  the 
town  and  fields  of  Fenwyk  or  to  the  manor  of  Fenwyk  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  Sir  William  de  Morle,  Hamon  dc  Felton,  Roger  de  Welsham 
and  William  de  Scargile  of  Yorkshire  knights,  Thomas  de  Wynggefeld, 
Roger  de  Wolfreston,  John  Gerard,  John  de  Stobbes,  John  de 
Wynte  worth.     Dated  London,  Friday  after  St.  Botolph50  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Hugh  de  Hastynges  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to 
John  de  Rouldcston  and  Thomas  de  Froskebek  clerks,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  his  manors  of  Elsyng  and  Wesenham  co.  Norffolk,  and 
Monuwcdene  co.  Suffolk  with  the  advowsons,  knights'  fees,  reversions 
of  dower  and  other  life  estates,  rents,  services  and  customs  of  free 
men  and  neifs,  and  other  appurtenances  whatsoever.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  William  de  Morle,  Sir  Hamon  de  Felton,  Sir  Roger  de  Welsham 
knights,  Thomas  de  Wyngefeld,  Roger  de  Wolfreston,  John  Gerard. 
Dated  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters, 
4  November. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Brian  de  Stapelton  knight  of  the  one 
part  and  Gilbert  Talbot  and  Margaret  his  wife  of  the  other  part, 


KB  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Membram   1 3d    con<. 

witnessing  ■  grant  made  by  the  said  Brian  to  the  said  Gilbert  and 
MttLrati-i   for  their  lives  of  a  yearly  rent  of  ion  marks  to  be  taken 

at    the   Annunciation  and   Michaelmas   by  even  portion-,  of  the  manor 

of  Wighhall,  fifteen  messuages,  one  carucate  ten  bovates  and  12  acres 
of  land  and    10s.  of  rent   in   Wighhall,   Bdelyngton,  Skelbroke  and 

Fork,  whereof  the  .said  Brian  is  now  seised  in  fee  simple,  and  of  the 
manors  of  Etoughfoid  and  Clifford  and  all  the  lands  in  Yorkshire 
whereof  he  is  likewise  seised,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  within 
the  county  and  without,  binding  himself  and  his  heirs  to  payment, 
and  he  has  paid  1,/.  in  name  of  seisin,  upon  these  conditions:  that 
so  long  as  he,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  pay  to  the  said  Gilbert  and 
Margaret  or  one  of  them  or  to  any  other  bearing  an  acquittance 
from  them  or  one  of  them  in  the  'Gilhall  '  of  London  at  Whitsuntide 
or  21  days  after  Michaelmas  following  and  at  Martinmas  or  the  quin- 
Eaine  of  St.  Hilary  following  by  even  portions  100  marks  yearly 
reserved  by  a  tine  levied  in  the  king's  court  between  the  parties  of 
the  said  manor  of  Wyghhale  and  other  lands,  and  so  from  year  to 
year  during  the  said  Margaret's  life,  taking  acquittance  for  every 
payment  under  the  said  Gilbert's  seal  of  arms,  and  under  the  seal 
u~ed  by  the  said  Margaret  if  the  said  Gilbert  be  out  of  England  or  dead 
in  her  life  time,  payment  being  made  to  the  said  Gilbert  at  the  place  and 
last  day  of  payment  limited  in  case  the  said  Margaret  shall  die  after 
Whitsuntide  or  Martinmas  before  payment  made  for  that  term,  the 
said  Gilbert  and  Margaret  making  no  distress  between  the  said  terms 
and  the  last  days  of  payment  so  limited,  the  rent  hereby  granted 
shall  remain  in  suspense  ;  that  after  the  said  Margaret's  death  the 
same  shall  be  void,  and  this  deed  shall  be  delivered  up  to  the  said 
Brian  or  to  his  heirs  ;  and  that  payment  of  the  rent  hereby  granted 
shall  begin  upon  default  of  payment  of  the  rent  reserved  as  aforesaid, 
taking  no  arrears  of  the  rent  hereby  granted  for  former  times, 
no  payment  or  tender  made  at  any  other  place  than  the  '  Gilhall '  as 
aforesaid  being  alleged  or  pleaded  in  discharge  of  the  said  Brian,  his 
heirs  or  assigns.  Dated  Thursday,  6  November  50  Edward  IN. 
Frt  nrh. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Brian  and  Gilbert, 
6  November. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  statute  merchant  made  at  London 
for  400/.  payable  at  the  Purification  next  wherein  Robert  de 
Swylvngton  knight  the  uncle  is  bound  to  Gilbert  Talbot,  upon  condition 
that  the  rent  of  100  marks  to  be  paid  to  the  said  Gilbert  and  Margaret 
his  wife  during  the  said  Margaret's  life  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in 
the  king's  court  between  Sir  Brian  de  Stapelton  and  them  of  the 
manor  of  Wyghhale,  fifteen  messuages,  one  carucate  ten  bovates  and 
12  acres  of  land  and  10-s.  of  rent  in  Wyghhale,  Edelyngton,  Skelbroke 
and  York  shall  be  so  paid  every  year  during  her  life  on  the  21st  day 
after  Michaelmas  or  the  21st  day  after  Christmas,  and  the  15th  day 
after  St.  Hilary  or  the  15th  day  after  Easter  following  by  even 
portions  in  the  '  Gihalle  '  London,  acquittance  being  given  for 
every  payment  under  the  said  Gilbert's  seal  of  arms,  and  under 
the  seal  used  by  the  said  Margaret  in  case  he  be  out  of  England 
or  be  dead  in  her  life  time,  and  after  the  said  Margaret's  death  that 
statute  shall  be  null  and  void.     Dated  (as  the  last).    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  6  November. 


50  EDWARD  IIL— Part  II.  453 


1376.  Membrane    13c/ — cont. 

Nov.  8.  Richard  Randes  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Roche,  to 

Westminster,  have   for  life   such   maintenance   in   that   house   as    Nicholas   Taunt 
deceased  had  at  the  command  of  the  king  or  of  his  forefathers. 

By  p.s.  [31154.] 

Writing  of  John  Giffard  knight,  granting  to  John  bishop  of  Bath 
and  Wells,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  to  be  taken  at 
Christmas,  Easter,  Midsummer  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions 
of  the  manor  of  Ichulle  co.  Suthampton,  with  power  to  distrain  for 
arrears  ;  and  he  has  delivered  to  the  bishop  Id.  in  name  of  seisin, 
binding  his  heirs  and  executors  and  all  his  goods  for  payment. 
Dated  10  November  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   11   November. 

Charter  of  Walter  de  la  Lee  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Richard 
Ravenser,  Thomas  Strete  clerks,  Robert  de  Teye,  William  Baud 
knights,  John  Bataile,  Thomas  Bataile,  John  de  Boys,  Geoffrey 
Hundene,  William  Giffard,  Walter  Arderne,  John  Martell,  John 
Quynyld,  Henry  Sparke  and  Robert  atte  Watere,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  his  manors  of  Berwaldon,  Coppedehalle  and  Great  Leighes 
called  Gobions,  with  homages,  services  etc.,  and  all  his  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  Essex.  Witnesses  :  Robert  Marny,  John  de  Sutton, 
Richard  de  Sutton  knights,  John  de  Gildesborgh,  Thomas  de  Hynton, 
John  Olivere,  Thomas  Baynaixl,  John  atte  Halle,  Robert  atte  Forde. 
Dated  Berwaldon,  Thursday  the  feast  of  St.  Luke  49  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Walter  de  la  Lee  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Richard 
de  Ravenesere,  Thomas  Strete  clerks,  Robert  de  Teye,  William  Baud 
knights,  John  Bataille,  Thomas  Bataille,  John  de  Boys,  Geoffrey 
Hundene,  William  Giffard,  Walter  Arderne,  John  Martell,  John 
Quynyld,  Henry  Sparke  and  Robert  atte  Watere,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  his  manors  of  Aldebury,  Cokhamstide,  Brent  Pelham  called 
Chambirlains,  Herteshoo  Darcies,  Wallyngton,  Clothale,  Comberlowe, 
Thacheworth  and  Pachendene  with  homages  and  services,  his 
lands  etc.  called  Quynehawes,  and  all  other  his  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  Hertfordshire.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  de  Fyttelyng,  John  le  Haye 
knights,  Richard  Braghing,  John  Basset,  John  Ruggewyn,  Thomas 
Bocock.     Dated  Aldebury,  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters, 
13  November  this  year. 

Membrane  I2d. 

Indenture  made  between  Gilbert  Talbot  and  Sir  Brian  de  Stapleton, 
witnessing  the  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  in  GOO  marks  by  the 
said  Brian  made  in  chancery  to  the  said  Gilbert,  and  of  a  recognisance! 
in  1000  marks  likewise  made  to  the  said  Gilbert,  the  first  upon 
condition  that  the  said  Brian,  his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  pay  to 
the  said  Gilbert  and  Margaret  [his  wife]  or  one  of  (hem,  or  to  any 
other  bringing  an  acquittance  under  the  said  Gilbert's  seal  of  anus 
or  the  seal  used  by  the  said  Margaret,  300  marks  in  the  '  ( rihall '  London, 
to  wit  100  marks  at  Whitsuntide  next,  100  marks  at  Martinmas 
following,  and  other  100  marks  at  Whitsuntide  following,  the  other 
upon  condition  that  whereas  tin;   said   Gilbert   and   Margaret  ought 


UM  i   MINI'  \i:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  ;;  l/.  rubra*    \'2d — rout. 

by  fine  in  the  king's  courl  to  release  or  grant  to  the  said  Brian  and 
t<>  Ins  heirs  the  manor  of  Wyghhale,  lii  one  caraoate 

ten  bovatea  and  li*  aoree  of  land  and  10s.  of  rent  in  Wyghhale  and 
Edelyngton,  Skelbroke  and  fork,  which  they  hold  for  the  said 
Margaret's  life  with  reversion  to  the  said  Brian,  Bubject  to  a  yearly 

rent  of  LOO  marks  payable  at  Whitsuntide  and  Martinmas  h\  even 
portions  to  the  said  Gilbert  and  Margarel  during  the  said  Margaret's 

life  with  power  to  distrain,  and  whereas  to  secure  payment  thereof 
the  said   Brian  shall  by  indentures  between  the  parties  grant  to  the 

.-aid  Gilbert  and  Margaret  other  100  marks  of  rent  to  he  taken  of  the 
premises  comprised  in  the  said  line  and  of  the  manors  of  Boughford 
and  Clifford  and  all  other  the  said  Brian's  lands  in  Yorkshire,  and 
those  indentures  shall  he  made  according  to  the  purport  of  a  note 
thereof  made,  indented  and  agreed  and  not  sealed,  without  the  said 
line  the  said  Brian  shall  sue  execution  of  the  premises  comprised  in 
the  said  tine,  or  within  eight  days  shall  enter  thereupon  by  force  of 
the  said  tine  as  the  law  may  sutler  him  to  do.  and  within  eight  days 
after  execution  sued  or  entry  made  the  said  Brian  or  his  heirs  being 
in  posse— ion  and  so  seised  of  the  premises,  and  being  likewise  seised 
of  the  said  manors,  in  fee  simple  and  not  in  fee  tail,  whereby  the  premises 
are  chargeable  with  rent  and  distress  for  the  same,  amounting  in 
true  value  to  100  marks  a  year  at  least  over  and  above  all  charges, 
he  or  his  heirs  shall  cause  the  said  indentures  to  be  sealed  and  enrolled 
of  record  in  chancery,  and  if  the  said  Brian  shall  die  before  such  scaling 
and  enrolment,  his  heir  being  within  age,  the  heir  shall  so  do  on  coming 
of  age,  and  shall  deliver  the  indenture  so  sealed  and  enrolled  to  the  said 
Gilbert  and  Margaret  or  one  of  them  or  to  their  attorney  delivering  the 
other  part  to  him  under  the  said  Gilbert's  seal  in  the  king's  great  hall 
at  Westminster.  Dated  1  November  50  Edward  III.  French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  6  November. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  statute  merchant  made  at  London 
whereby  William  Holm  is  bound  in  400/.  to  Gilbert  Talbot,  upon 
condition  that  the  rent  of  100  marks  payable  to  the  said  Gilbert  and 
Margaret  his  wife  during  her  life  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in  the 
king's  court  between  Sir  Brian  de  Stapelton  and  the  said  Gilbert 
and  Margaret  of  the  manor  of  Wyghhale,  fifteen  messuages,  one 
carucate  ten  bovates  and  12  acres  of  land  and  10s.  of  rent  in 
Wyghhale,  Edelyngton,  Skelbroke  and  York  shall  every  year  be  paid 
on  the  21st  day  after  Michaelmas  and  the  15th  day  after  St.  Hilary 
by  even  portions  in  the  '  Gilhalle  '  London,  every  acquittance  being 
under  the  said  Gilbert's  seal  of  arms  or  under  the  seal  used  by  the 
said  Margaret  in  case  he  shall  be  out  of  England  or  dead  in  her  hfe  time. 
Dated  Thursday,  G  November  50  Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  6  November. 

Indenture  of  defeasance  of  a  statute  merchant  made  at  London 
by  Sir  Brian  de  Stapelton  whereby  he  is  bound  to  Gilbert  Talbot 
in  400/.  payable  at  the  Purification  next,  upon  condition  that  the 
rent  of  100  marks  payable  to  the  said  Gilbert  and  Margaret  his  wife 
for  her  life  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  between  the 
said  Brian  and  the  said  Gilbert  and  Margaret  of  the  manor  of  Wyghhale, 
fifteen  messuages,  one  carucate  ten  bovates  and  12  acres  of  land  and 
10s.  of  rent  in  Wighhale,  Edelyngton,  Skelbroke  and  York  shall  every 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  455 


1376.  Membrane   I2d — cont. 

year  be  paid  to  them  on  the  21st  day  after  Michaelmas  and  the  15th 
day  after  St.  Hilary  by  even  portions,  every  acquittance  etc.  (as. 
the  last).      Dated  (as  the  last).    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  6  November. 

Writing  of  John  Lestraimge  lord  of  Walton,  being  a  letter  of 
attorney  appointing  John  Huwet  and  Richard  Warner  of  Walton 
to  deliver  to  Roger  Lcstraunge,  Philip  vicar  of  Wellesborne  and 
William  de  Offechirche  clerk  seisin  of  all  the  lands,  rents,  services 
and  reversions  which  he  the  said  John  Lestraunge  had  in  Alcrynton, 
Balscote  and  Wroxton  co.  Oxford,  Shenyndon  co.  Gloucester,  Tysho, 
Pylardynton  and  Lockesleye  co.  Warrewyk,  Totebache,  Bradele, 
Evesham  and  Goldecote  co.  Worcester,  according  to  his  charter  to 
them  made.  Dated  Long  Ichynton  co.  Warrewyk,  Thursday  after 
St.Bartholomew  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  November. 

Indenture  made  20  November  50  Edward  III  between  John  bishop 
of  Bath  and  Wells  and  Sir  John  Giffard  knight,  witnessing  the 
defeasance  of  a  yearly  rent  of  20L  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of  Ichulle 
co.  Suthampton,  granted  by  Sir  John  to  the  bishop,  upon  condition 
that  Sir  John,  his  heirs  or  executors  or  some  other  in  their  name  shall 
pay  to  the  bishop,  his  heirs  or  executors,  60/.  at  All  Saints  next  or 
before  that  day  in  the  bishop's  house  without  Templebarre,  and  that 
Sir  John  shall  make  no  demise  or  alienation  to  any  man  of  the  manors 
of  Ichull,  Sherston  Pynkeneye,  Weston  and  Norton,  nor  of  the 
moieties  or  third  parts  thereof  or  of  any  of  them,  nor  charge  the  same 
until  the  bishop  be  contented  of  the  said  sum.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  11  November. 

Writing  of  Walter  de  la  Lee  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Richard  de  Ravensere,  Thomas  Strete  clerks,  Robert  de  Teye 
knight,  John  Bataille,  John  Boys,  Thomas  Bataille,  Geoffrey 
Hundene,  John  Quynyld,  William  Giffard,  Walter  Arderne,  John 
Martell,  Henry  Sparke  and  Robert  atte  Water,  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  his  manors  and  lands  namely  Barwaldon,  Coppedhalle,  Gobions 
in  Great  Leyez,  Herteshoo  and  tenements  in  Claveryng  co.  Essex, 
Aldebury  Darcys,  Pclham  Chambirlains,  Cokhamstede,  the  manors  of 
Wallyngton,  Cumbirlowe,  Clothalle  and  tenements  in  Pachenden, 
Quynhawe,  Botilers,  Stapulford,  Benghoo,  Hertford  and  a  moiety 
of  the  manor  of  Tacheworth  co.  Hertford  and  Cotenam  Fenne  co. 
Cantebrigge,  which  they  had  of  his  gift  and  feoffment.  Dated 
Aldebury,  Saturday  the  feast  of  All  Saints  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  November. 

Nov.  16.  William  Purcell*  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Bartholomew 

Westminster.  Smythefeld  by  the  city  of  London,  to  have  for  life  such  maintenance 
in  that  house  as  Maud  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Colly  in  her  life 
time  had  at  the  command  of  the  king  or  his  forefathers. 

\\y  p.s.  [31172.] 


*  In  the  warrant  styled  the  king's  esquire 


I   \l. i:\h\i:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376,  UMMtBR  i  m:   1  [d. 

Writing  "i  John  de  Cobohain  lord  "f  Cobeham  knight,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  <»f  the  manor 
of  Hoo  in  the  parish  of  sink,  called  '  Malemaynes  maner'  and  the 
manor  of  Ma\  ihammc  in  the  parish  of  Rolvendenne,  and  all  other 
lands,  rents,  services,  [arms,  reversions  and  liberties  in  Kmi  which 
In-  t!i<'  said  John,  Robert  Bealknap  knight  and  the  said  Nicholas 
with  certain  others  latch  had  jointly  by  gifl  and  feoffment  of  William 
Pympc  knight.     Dated  Stoke,  i'l'  October  •"><)   Edward   III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  October. 

Writing  of  John  Asphull,  granting  to  Sir  Robert  de  Teye  knight 
the  wardship  of  all  the  lands  of  Thomas  Baynard  tenant  in  chief 
p  naming  to  the  said  John  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage 
of  his  heir  until  the  full  age  of  the  heir,  also  the  marriage  of  the  said 
heir,  as  fully  a-  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  the  same  to  the 
said    John,    except     tin     lands     pertaining    to    the    manor    of    the 

id  Thomas  in  the  town  of  Little  Rayne  co.  Essex;  and  if 
the  said  heir  shall  die  before  he  come  of  age  his  heir  being 
within  age,  covenant  that  Sir  Robert  shall  have  the  wardship 
and  marriage  of  such  heir  with  the  exception  aforesaid,  and  so  from 
heir  to  heir  until  one  be  of  age,  upon  condition  that  if  Richard  son  and 
heir  of  the  said  Thomas  shall  so  die,  his  heir  being  within  age,  and  the 
king's  heirs  shall  rightfully  thrust  out  the  said  Robert  or  those  having 
his  estate,  the  said  John,  his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  not  be  chargeable 
to  recompense  them  by  writ  of  covenant  or  otherwise.  .Dated 
London,  22  October  50  Edward  ill.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  October. 

Oct.  23.  Robert  de  Teye  knight  to  John  Asphull.     Recognisance  for  250 

Westminster,  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Essex. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Robert  de  Teye  knight  and  John 
Asphull,  witnessing  the  defeasance  of  the  foregoing  recognisance, 
upon  condition  that  the  said  Robert  or  someone  for  him  shall  pay  to 
the  said  John,  his  attorney  or  executors,  62  marks  6s.  Hd.  in  West- 
minster hall  at  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next,  and  62  marks  6s.  8d. 
at  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  following,  whereupon  the  said  John  shall 
be  bound  to  withdraw  the  same.  Dated  Westminster,  Thursday  after 
St.  Luke  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  23  October. 

Oct.  24.  Ralph  Greindore  the  younger  and  William  Smyth  of  Mitcheldean 

Westminster.  {Magna  Dene)  to  Thomas  de  Rokyngham.  Recognisance  for  20J., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in 
Gloucestershire. 

Writing  of  John  de  Kyngesfold,  being  a  general  release  to  Sir  Walter 
fitz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham  of  all  actions  real  and  persona]  for 
debt,  covenant,  annuity  or  otherwise.  Dated  London,  20  September 
50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  October. 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  457 


1376.  Membrane    lid — cord. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Walter  son  of  Sir  John  fitz  Wauter 
knight  and  John  de  Kyngesfold,  witnessing  the  defeasance  of  a  statute 
merchant  made  before  the  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Westminster 
whereby  the  said  Walter  is  bound  to  John  de  Kyngesfold  in 
800/.  payable  at  Easter  next,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Walter, 
his  heirs  or  executors,  shall  pay  to  John  de  Kyngesfold  or  his  executors 
in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  100/.  at  Michaelmas  next.  100/.  at 
Whitsuntide  following,  100/.  at  Michaelmas  following,  and  100/.  at 
Whitsuntide  following,  or  within  one  month  after  each  of  those  terms  ; 
and  after  the  last  payment  the  said  statute  shall  be  delivered  up  to 
the  said  Walter  or  his  executors.  Dated  London,  26  October  50 
Edward  III.    French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  25  October. 

Charter  of  Walter  fitz  Wauter  the  elder  knight,  son  of  Sir  Robert 
fitz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodham,  giving  with  warranty  to  Walter  fitz 
Wauter  lord  of  Wodham,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  grantor's 
purparty  of  the  manor  of  Flete,  and  all  lands,  rents  and  services 
which  he  has  or  ever  had  in  the  town  of  Flete  or  elsewhere  in  Lincoln- 
shire.    Dated  Henham,  1  October  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  October. 

Writing  of  Walter  fitz  Wauter  the  elder  knight,  son  of  Sir  Robert 
fitz  Wauter  knight  lord  of  Wodeham,  being  a  letter  of  attorney 
appointing  Richard  Welby  of  Multon  and  John  vicar  of  Multon  to 
deliver  to  Walter  fitz  Wauter  lord  of  Wodeham  seisin  of  a  third  part 
of  all  lands,  knights'  fees,  rents  and  services  in  the  town  of  Flete  late  of 
Dame  Joan  fitz  Wauter  mother  of  the  said  Walter  the  elder,  and  of 
all  his  lands  in  that  town  or  elsewhere  in  Lincolnshire  ;  directing  all 
his  tenants  there  to  be  intendant  to  the  said  Walter  lord  of  Wodeham. 
Dated  London,  1  October  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  26  October. 

Writing  of  John   de  Asschewelle,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Robert 
de  Swyllyngton  the  uncle    and  to    his  heirs  of  all    the  lands,  rents 
and  services  which  the  said  John  has  or  hereafter  may  have  in  the 
towns    of   Cotes   and    Hauton    co.    Leycestre.      Dated    31    October 
50  Edward   III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  3  November. 

Nov.  7.  Ralph  son  of  Geoffrey  de  Staunton  knight  to  Henry  de  Codyngton 

Westminster,  parson  of  Botelesford.     Recognisance  for  40  marks,   to   be  levied, 
in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Lincolnshire. 

Nov.  12.         Robert    Burgeys   of    Melton    to    William    Bayford.      Recognisance 
Westminster,  for  40/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Leycestershire. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Robert  pay  20/. 
at  the  octaves  of  St.  Plulip  and  St.  James  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Nov.  12.         Robert  Bemetby  to  Peter  de  Barton  clerk,  Jolin  de  Ouresby  and 
Westminster.  John  de  Feriby  the  younger.     Recognisance  for  300/.,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Lincolnshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 


I5S 


CALENDAR  <>K  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  1 7»».  M<  mbnim    l  Id  -eont. 

Charter  of  Richard  do  Abberbury  knight,  giving  with  warranty 
to  John  de  Arundel]  knighl  sun  of  Richard  Late  earl  of  Arundel!  and 
Surrey,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manors  of  Shorham  and  Tadeham 

CO.  Sussex    and    all    lands    which     (he    grantOI    had   in    those    towns. 

1 1  kfc  .1  I  November  "><»  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   14  November. 

\<>v.  15.  \  :'i- ■-  who  was  wife  of  Simon  Pecche  of  Great  Waltham  to  John 

kminstor.  Lepynden,    Recognisance  for  40L,  to  be  Levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  her  lands  and  chattels  in   Essex. 


John  Gildesburgh  to  Robert  de  Teye  knight  and  Simon  do  Burgh. 
Reoognisanoe  for  400J.  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Nov.  19.         Michael  Skyllyng  and  Hugh  Crane  of  Wineliester  to  John  Popham. 
tmimstor.  Recognisance  for  22  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;   to  be  levied  etc. 
in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Memorandum  that  Paravesinus  Paravesin  merchant  of  Genoa 
(J  anna)  and  proctor  of  Moriel  de  Mari  appoints  Lewis  Gen  til  merchant 
of  Genoa,  and  Peter  Bergadinus  merchant  of  Venice  dwelling  in  the 
city  of  London  his  attorneys  to  sue  execution  of  a  recognisance  for 
2S07.  6*.,  made  in  chancery  26  July  this  year  to  the  said  Paravesinus 
by  John  Sampson  of  Plymmouth  and  Nicholas  Fortescu  of 
Plymmouth,  to  receive  the  money,  make  acquittance  thereof, 
and  crave  that  the  said  recognisance,  enrolled  above,  may  be  cancelled. 

Received  by  John  bishop  of  Hereford,  by  a  writ  which  is  upon 
the  files  for  this  year. 

Membrane  lOd. 

Writing  of  Roger  Juyl,  acknowledging  that  he  has  this  day  received 
of  William  Talbot  a  full  account  of  all  profits  taken  by  the  said  William 
by  reason  of  the  marriage  of  Katherine  daughter  and  heir  of 
Bartholomew  Penhergard  with  Thomas  son  of  John  Trengrek,  and  of  her 
marriage  to  him  the  said  Roger  after  the  death  of  the  said  Thomas, 
of  all  the  profits  taken  by  the  said  William  and  Margaret  [his  wife] 
or  either  of  them  of  all  the  lands  which  descended  to  the  said  Katherine 
after  her  father's  death,  and  of  all  other  profits  due  to  her  or  on  her 
account  received,  and  that  the  said  William  has  now  paid  to  the  said 
Roger  as  the  said  Katherine's  husband  all  arrears  thereupon  due, 
and  contented  him  of  all  profits  due  to  her  from  the  said  William  and 
Margaret  and  either  of  them,  and  releasing  to  the  said  William 
and  Margaret  and  to  either  of  them  all  actions  for  debt  and  account 
due  to  the  said  Roger  and  Katherine  or  to  one  of  them,  acknowledging 
also  that  he  has  received  full  satisfaction  for  all  waste  committed 
by  the  said  William  and  Margaret  or  by  either  of  them  as  well  in  the 
lands  held  by  the  said  William  and  Margaret  for  the  said  Margaret's 
life  as  in  the  residue  of  the  said  Katherine's  heritage,  acquitting  them 
and  either  of  them  of  such  waste  and  damages,  and  of  all  debts,  accounts 
and  profits  to  this  date  which  concern  the  said  Roger  and  Katherine  and 
one  of  them,  and  releasing  all  personal  actions  for  waste,  account, 
trespass  and  covenant,  with  covenants  that  the  said  William  and 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II.  459 


1376.  Membrane   lOd — cont. 

Margaret  shall  not  in  time  to  come  be  impeached  for  profits  of  such 
marriages  or  any  contract  made  on  the  said  Katherine's  account, 
that  all  demises  and  agreements  made  by  the  said  William  and  Margaret 
or  one  of  them  to  Richard  Mareschal  and  others  in  Bodemyn  of  the 
tenements  of  the  said  Katherine's  heritage  shall  be  kept  and  performed, 
and  that  the  said  WTilliam  and  Margaret  shall  and  may  peaceably 
hold  the  tenements  by  them  now  held  in  dower  during  the  said 
Margaret's  life  in  Bodmyn  and  Bodvnyel,  confirming  the  same  as 
dower  of  the  said  Margaret,  and  all  lands  of  that  heritage  by  them 
now  held  in  dower  or  otherwise.  Dated  Bodmyn,  Thursday  after  St. 
Martin  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
14  November. 

Writing  of  William  Coke  knight  of  Barkshire,  being  a  letter  of 
attorney  appointing  Sir  Robert  Symeon  knight  of  Oxfordshire  and 
Robert  Mauncell  citizen  and  cutler  of  London  to  sue  for,  receive 
and  recover  of  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Peter  Coke  knight  and  Thomas 
son  and  heir  of  the  said  Peter  40Z.  upon  their  bond  to  the  said  William 
for  80£.,  and  to  give  an  acquittance  for  the  same.  Dated  London, 
4  November  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  November. 

Writing  of  John  Roches  knight,  reciting  a  grant  made  to  him,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  by  John  Fitz  Payn  knight  of  40s.  of  rent,  to  be 
taken  during  the  lives  of  John  Colyngbourne  and  Edith  his  wife 
upon  the  manor  of  Draycote  Fiz  Payn  co.  Wilteshire,  which  they 
now  hold  for  life  with  reversion  to  the  said  John  Fiz  Payn  and  to 
his  heirs,  and  a  grant  of  the  reversion  of  that  manor  after  the  death 
of  the  said  tenants,  and  reciting  an  attornment  made  by  them 
accordingly  to  the  said  John  Roches,  and  granting  the  said  rent  and 
reversion  with  warranty  to  Master  Robert  Wichford  canon  of  Salisbury, 
Michael  Skillyng,  Walter  Skyllyng  parson  of  Erchesfonte,  Walter 
Haywode,  William  Hoghton,  John  Warner  parson  of  Stoktone  and 
Robert  Cranebourne  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns.  Witnesses  : 
Philip  Fiz  Waryn,  Edward  Cerne  knights,  Nicholas  Bonham,  John 
Auncel,  John  Elys,  John  Wyly,  Nicholas  Botiller,  William  Rolf, 
John  Littlecote.  Dated  Erchesfonte,  Thursday  the  feast  of  St. 
Leonard  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  19  November. 

Charter  of  John  de  Gildesburgh,  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk,  Edmund 
Warner  and  John  le  Rous,  granting  to  Clement  Spice  and  Alice  his 
wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder  to  their  right 
heirs,  the  whole  manor  of  Spayneshalle ,  in  exchange  for  a  messuage, 
160  acres  of  land,  8  acres  of  meadow,  30  acres  of  pasture,  6  acres  of 
wood  and  alder  wood  and  18s.  of  rent  in  Colcestre,  Lexeden,  Staneweye, 
Bergholte  and  Horkesleye,  and  for  a  messuage,  160  acres  of  land, 
12  acres  of  meadow,  30  acres  of  pasture,  6  acres  of  wood  and  alder 
wood  and  18s.  of  rent  in  Bockynge,  Stistede  and  Branketre,  provided 
that  the  grantors  shall  not  be  bound  to  warranty.  Dated  London,  26 
May  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  de  Gildesburgh  and 
Robert  de  Muskham,  18  November  this  year. 


I   \i  ENDAH  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Membra*    LOd  -<-ont. 

Writing  of  Ralph  \< >uman  of  Bianston,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Edmund 

de  afortuo  Mim  earl  "I  Sfarch  and  Ulster  and  Pnilippa  Ins  wife  and 
to  t hi-  heirs  ol  the  said  Philippe  of  all  the  lands,  meadows,  woods, 
feedings  and  pastures  in  Stuohamptone  which  the  said  carl  and 
Pnilippa  lately  had  l.\  grant  of  Alexander  de  Tarente,  and  which 
were  sometime  of  John  Abbey.  Witnesses:  William  de  Lucy,  John 
atte  Hale.  John  llameli  knights,  Robert  Lucy,  Stephen  Derby,  John 

Vntioche,    Henry      Baret.        Dated     Tarente     Gundeville,     Wednesday 
the  feasl  of  the  Assumption  4!)  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Shirburne,  Monday  after 
St.  Peter's  Chair  this  year,  before  Walter  I'crle  by  virtue  of  the  king's 
writ  of  dedimua  potestotem  which  is  on  the  files  for  this  year. 

Charter  of  William  Paumes  of  Naburne  co.  York,  giving  with 
warranty  to  Sir  Robert  de  Swylyngton  the  uncle  knight,  John  Dyn 
rector  of  St.  Michael  Long  St  rat  ton  CO.  Norfolch  and  Walter  de  Preston 
chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manor  of  Westhale  co.  Suflfolch 
and  all  lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions  which  he  shall  or  may 
have  at  this  date  in  Suffolch.  Dated  the  manor  of  Savoy  by  the 
city  of  London,  20  November  50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  Paumes  of  Naburne  co.  York,  being  a  letter 
of  attorney  appointing  John  Densby  and  Thomas  de  Petreburgh 
to  deliver  to  Sir  Robert  de  Swylyngton,  John  Dyn  rector  of  Long 
Stratton  co.  Norfolch  and  Walter  de  Preston  chaplain  seisin  of  the 
manor  of  Westhale  co.  Suffolch  and  all  his  lands  etc.  in  that  county, 
according  to  his  charter.    Dated  (as  the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster,  20  November. 

Writing  of  Thomas  Neketon  of  Fordham,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  Walter  Sybile,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
of  Land  wade  except  a  cottage  called  Pomerays,  a  toft  called 
Hykemannes,  and  3  acres  of  land  to  the  said  cottage  and  toft 
pertaining.  Witnesses  :  Robert  de  Parys,  William  Bateman,  Nicholas 
de  Twiford,  Thomas  Sewall,  John  Payn.  Dated  Landwade  co. 
Cantebrigge,  18  November  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  November. 

Membrane  9d. 

Sept.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Essex.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  Merawe 
Westminster,  and  William  Selane  of  London  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  John 
Neuton  clerk  ;  as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff 
to  take  him  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  justices  at  Westminster 
in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  to  answer  William  Denton  of  Cholchestre 
concerning  an  alleged  trespass,  and  he  has  petitioned  the  king  for 
a  stay,  shewing  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  at  that  day,  and  stand  to 
right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Nicholas  and  William  Selane,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  10£.  to  have 
him  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

Writing  of  John  Depple  citizen  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim  to 
Hugh  Hamenassh  citizen  and  vintner  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 


50  EDWARD  III.— Part  II. 


461 


1376.  Membrane  9rf — cont. 

of  all  right  which  he  has,  or  may  or  ought  to  have,  or  which  may 
fall  to  his  heirs  in  the  lands  which  were  of  Thomas  de  Curton  in  the 
town  and  fields  of  Dorteforde  by  charter  indented  of  gift  and  feoffment 
of  the  said  Thomas.  Witnesses :  Thomas  Schardelowe,  Richard 
Martyn,  Thomas  Wake,  Thomas  de  Kent,  John  Wyncham  clerk. 
Dated  Dorteford,  6  October  48  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  October  this  year. 

Writing  of  Stephen  Haym  citizen  and  merchant  of  Winchester 
and  John  Chynnore  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  John 
Caundich  knight,  William  de  Aston,  William  Wynter  clerks,  Philip  de 
Holgote,  Robert  Wyk  and  Geoffrey  Dluet  (sic),  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  called  the  Gydyhalle  in  the  town  of  Haveryng  co.  Essex, 
a  messuage  called  Esthous  in  that  town  with  the  lands  adjacent, 
and  all  lands  in  the  said  town  which  William  de  Baldwyne 
citizen  and  saddler  of  London  had  by  grant  of  Robert  de  Haveryng. 
Witnesses  :  John  Warde,  John  Aubrey,  Robert  Hatfeld,  Richard 
Hodiham,  Geoffrey  Crymelford.  Dated  London,  10  September 
50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  October. 

Oct.  16.  William  de  Saundresdon,  William  Autryve  and  Thomas  Chaunceux 

Westminster,  to  William  abbot  of  Mussenden  and  William  de  Bugbrugge  clerk. 
Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  1001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Bukinghamshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  William  de  Bugbrugge. 

Oct.  17.  William  de  Stanle  and  Nicholas  de  Orell  to  Thomas  de  Thelwall 

Westminster,  clerk.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Lancashire. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  said  William  and 
Nicholas  or  one  of  them  pay  10  marks  at  the  Purification  next. 

Charter  of  John  Lestraunge  lord  of  Walton,  giving  to  Roger 
Lestraunge,  Philip  vicar  of  Wellesburne  and  William  de  Of  church 
clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  all  the  lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions 
which  he  had  in  Alcrinton,  Balscote  and  Wroxston  co.  Oxford, 
Shemyndon  co.  Gloucester,  Tysho,  Pilardynton  and  Lokesleye 
co.  Warrewyk,  Totebache,  Bradele,  Evesham  and  Goldecote  co. 
Worcester.  Witnesses  :  Sir  John  Oddyngseles  knight,  Sir  John 
Verdoun  knight,  Richard  Boteler,  William  Palmer,  John  Baylli  of 
Southam.  Dated  Long  Ichinton  co.  Warrewyk,  Thursday  after 
St.  Bartholomew  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  October. 

Writing  of  Ellen  Vcnour  of  Foulescote  co.  Berksir  and  William 
Wynde  of  London,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  John  Caundich  knight, 
William  de  Aston,  William  Wynter  clerks,  Philip  de  Holgote,  Robert 
Wyke  and  Geoffrey  Dluet  (sic),  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor 
called  the  Gydyhalle  in  the  town  of  Haveryng  co.  Essex,  and  all  lands 
in  that  town  which  William  Baldewyne  citizen  and  saddler  of  London 
had  by  grant  of  Robert  de  Have^ng.  Witnesses  :  John  Warde,  John 
Aubrey,  Robert  Hatfeld,  Richard  Odyham,  Geoffrey  Grymelford. 
Dated  London,  10  September  50  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  William  Wynde,  21  October. 


162  CALENDAR   OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


]  176.  n?<  >ii!>r'i))<   !•>/— oont. 

■    22.  Tlioma-i  BOD  <>f  John  del    More  of   Lyvnpull  to    Master  Richard  do 

Westminster.  Wynewyk.    II-  ognisanoe  for  201.  paj  a  I  >  I  •  •  by  instalments  ;  to  be  levied, 

in  default  of    payment,  <>f  Ins  hinds  and  chattels  in  Lancashire. 

Oct.  2'2.  Peter    Veel    knight    to    Robert    de    Asshcton    knight    and    Ralph    do 

Westminster.  Keeteven    clerk.      Recognisance    for    2,0002.,    to    be    levied  etc.   in 
( Uouoestershire. 
Caricdltd  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  s<ii<l  Robert. 

Nov.  1.  Brian  de  Stapelton   knight  to  Gilbert  Talbot.     Recognisance    for 

Westminster.  600  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Yorkshire. 
( 'aneeUed  on  paymt  nt. 

The  said  Brian  to  the  said  Gilbert.     Recognisance  for  1,000  marks, 
to  he  levied  etc.  as  aforesaid. 

Nov.  4.  Robert  de  Ferrariis  knight  and  Henry  de  Ferrariis  knight  to  Guy  de 

Westminster.  Briene   knight.     Joint   and  several  recognisance  for  200  marks,  to  be 
Levied  eto.  in  Salop. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Nov.  15.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  not  to  compel  Thomas  (sic)  de 
Westminster.  Botesham  to  find  other  security  by  virtue  of  the  kings  late  writ, 
and  by  mainprise,  of  Thomas  Raynham,  John  Frankelayn,  William 
Bnrdeyn,  Bartholomew  de  Castro,  John  Werehale  and  Richard  Weston 
to  stay  the  taking  of  his  body,  although  at  the  suit  of  Walter  fitz 
Johan  of  London  '  goldsmyth,'  averring  that  John  [sic)  de  Botesham 
of  London  'goldsmyth  '  threatened  him,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs 
to  cause  the  said  John  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to 
find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon 
them  for  which  the  sheriffs  wonld  answer,  would  mainpern  that  he 
should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  complainant, 
and  if  the  said  John  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol, 
there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  as 
on  6  August  in  the  45th  year  of  the  reign  Thomas  Raynham  and  the 
others  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  200/.  for  the  good  behaviour  of 
Thomas  (sic)  de  Botesham  toward  the  king  and  people. 

Nov.  27.         Robert    Ferers    knight    and    Henry  Ferers  knight  to   Robert  de 
Westminster.  Knolles  knight.    Recognisance  for  400  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default 
of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Salop. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Membrane  8d. 

Writing  of  Roger  Staynley  citizen  and  tailor  of  London,  being 
a  general  release  to  Thomas  Driffeld  esquire  of  all  actions,  plaints, 
suits  and  demands  real  and  personal  by  reason  of  debt,  account, 
covenant,  trespass  or  other  cause  whatsoever.  Dated  Westminster, 
20  July  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  November. 

Writing  of  John  Lightfoot  of  Rokeswelle,  being  a  release  and 
acquittance  to  Thomas  Benyton  of  Hoobregge  of  all  actions  by  reason 


50    EDWARD    TTI.— Part  II.  463 


1376.  Membrane  9>d — cont. 

of  debate  between  them  in  the  town  of  Writele  and  hamlet  of  la  Neulond 
in  the  month  of  July  50  Edward  III.    Dated  Rokeswelle,  Sunday  the 
feast  of  St.  Clement  the  same  year.    French. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  24  November. 

Nov.  18.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  upon  security  given  by  John 
Westminster.  Pountfrayt,  Richard  Odyham,  John  Wecche  and  Richard  Sutton  of 
London  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  against  John  de 
Hatfeld  otherwise  called  John  Mountagu,  Richard  de  Hatfeld  and 
Dionysia  his  wife  and  Thomas  de  Hatfeld  ;  as  upon  information 
received  that  they  purposed  to  pass  or  send  to  foreign  parts  in  order  to 
prosecute  there  many  things  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  many  of 
his  people,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  them  to  come  before 
them  and  to  compel  them  and  every  of  them  to  find  mainpernors  who, 
under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriffs 
would  answer,  would  mainpern  that  the  said  John  de  Hatfeld,  Richard  de 
Hatfeld,  Dionysia  and  Thomas  should  not  depart  to  any  foreign  parts 
without  the  king's  special  licence,  nor  there  prosecute  aught  or  cause 
aught  to  be  prosecuted  or  attempted  which  might  tend  to  contempt 
or  prejudice  of  the  king  or  to  the  hurt  of  his  people,  nor  send  any 
man  thither  for  the  purpose  ;  but  the  said  John  Pountfrayt  and 
the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as 
aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  10  marks. 

Nov.  6.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.    Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Wythornwyk 

Westminster,  clerk,  John  Chitterne  clerk,  John  Roderham  and  Jordan  de  Barton 
to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to  cause 
Richard  de  Weston  chaplain  to  come  before  him,  and  to  compel  him 
to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon 
them,  would  mainpern  that  he  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt 
or  harm  to  Thomas  Colville  of  Lincoln  '  bowyer,'  and  if  he  should  refuse, 
to  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody 
until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  certifying  in  chancery  under  his  seal 
the  security  so  taken  ;  as  that  writ  issued  at  the  suit  of  the  said 
Thomas,  averring  that  the  said  chaplain  threatened  him  in  life  and 
limbs  ;  but  the  said  John  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  20?. 

Dec.  1.  John  Bataille  and  William  Giffard  to  William  de  Sepvanz  knight. 

Wostminster.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Walter  de  la  Lee  knight,  John  Bataille 
and  William  Gyffard  of  the  one  part  and  William  Septvans  knight  of 
Kent  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  the  defeasance  of  a  statute  merchant 
in  200/.  payable  at  Easter  next  made  to  the  said  William  Septvans 
and  his  executors  before  the  mayor  of  London  by  the  said  Walter, 
and  of  the  foregoing  recognisance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Walter, 
John  and  William  Gyffard  or  one  of  them,  their  heirs  or  executors  or 
some  other  in  their  name  shall  in  the  body  of  the  church  of  St.  Paul 
London  before  the  Resurrection  pay  50/.  to  the  said  William  Sept- 
vans, his  heirs  or  executors  or  their  attorney  bearing  an  acquit- 
tance under  the  said  William's  seal  or  theirs  three  weeks  after 
Easter  next,  50/.  three  weeks  after  Michaelmas  following,  50/.  three 


14  t  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1 . ;  j  ti.  M(  mbrtnu  Sd—cont, 

weeks  after  Easter  following,  and  BQl.  three  weeks  alter  Michaelmas 
following  at  the  same  place.  Dated  Little  Wygbergh,  2  Deoembei 
BO  I'.dw  a  ill  III.      /•'/■-  nek. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  2  December. 

Writing  of  William  de  Septvans,  son  and  heir  of  William  de  Septvans 
knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  .John  de  la  Lee  knight 
and  .loan  his  wife  and  to  the  said  John's  heirs  of  the  manor  called 
Ooppedhalle  co.  Bases  and  the  advowson  of  the  church.  Witnesses: 
John  atte  Wode  knight,  Thomas  Tyrol  knight,  John  Harlyng,  John 
de  Hampton,  Roberl  de  Louthe,  John  Beleval,  Walter  Tyrel.  Dated 
Haveryng  atte  Home,  4  September  41   Edward  III.     French. 

Writing  of  William  de  Septvance,  son  and  heir  of  William  de 
Septvanoe  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Walter  de  la 
Lee,  Robert  de  Teye  knights,  Richard  de  Ravensere,  Thomas  Strete 
clerks,  John  Bataille,  Thomas  Bataille,  John  de  Boys,  Geoffrey 
Hundene,  William  Giffard,  Walter  Arderne,  John  Martell,  John 
Quynyld,  Henry  Sparke  and  Roberl  atte  Watere,  their  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  called  Coppedehalle  in  Little  Wygebergh  co. 
Essex  and  the  advowson  of  the  church,  and  of  all  other  lands,  rents 
and  services  in  that  town.  Witnesses  :  Thomas  Tyrell,  Robert  Marny, 
William  Wauton,  Robert  Swynbourne  and  Richard  Waldegrave 
knights,  John  Gildesburgh,  Robert  fitz  William,  John  Bampton, 
Robert  de  Louthe,  John  Belevale,  Walter  Tyrell.  Dated  Sunday 
before  St.  Katherine  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings, 
2  December  this  year. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Walter  atte  Lee,  Sir  Robert  de  Teye 
knights,  Richard  de  Ravensere,  Thomas  Strete  clerks,  John  Bataille, 
Thomas  Bataille,  John  de  Boys,  Geoffrey  Hundene,  William  Giffard, 
Walter  Arderne,  John  Martell,  John  Quynyld,  Henry  Sparke  and  Robert 
atte  Watere  of  the  one  part  and  Sir  William  de  Septvance  of  the  other 
part,  reciting  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  of  the  manor  in  Little  Wygebergh 
called  Coppedehalle,  dated  Sunday  before  St.  Katherine  50  Edward  III 
and  made  by  Sir  William  Septvance  to  the  first  parties,  and  witnessing 
a  covenant  that  he  and  his  heirs  shall  not  by  virtue  of  that 
quitclaim  or  of  any  warranty  therein  be  bound  to  warranty, 
nor  to  make  up  the  value,  if  the  said  first  parties  be  impleaded 
concerning  the  premises  by  any  other  save  the  said  William  or  his 
heirs  or  Isabel  his  wife.  Dated  Tuesday  the  feast  of  St.  Katherine 
50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Walter  atte  Lee, 
Richard,  John  Bataille,  John  Martell,  Geoffrey  and  William  Giffard, 
2  December  this  year  ;  and  by  Thomas  Bataille  and  Henry  Sparke 
5  February  51  Edward  III. 

Dec.  22.         Peter  de  Cornewaille  the  king's  esquire  is  sent  to  the  abbot    and 

Westminster,  convent  of  Redyng,  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in  Leomynstre 

priory,  being  a  cell  of  the  said  house,  as  Robert  le  Orfevre  of  Ludelaghe 

deceased  had  at  the  late  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [31232.] 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II. 


465 


1376.  MEMBRANE  Id. 

Nov.  6.  To  Henry  de  Percy,  Peter  do  Maulay,  William  de  Aton,  Roger  de 

Westminster.  Kyrketon,  Roger  de  Fulthorp,  Thomas  de  Sutton,  John  Conestablo 
of  Halsham,  John  Bygot  and  William  Percehay.  Order  not  to  meddle 
in  performing  or  exercising  the  offices  of  guardian  of  the  peace  and 
justice  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  the  town  of  Kyngeston  upon  Hull, 
or  other  matters  therein  contained,  b}'  virtue  of  the  king's  late  letters 
patent  appointing  them  guardians  of  the  peace  and  eight,  seven, 
six,  five,  four,  three  and  two  of  them  justices  in  the  Estrything  in 
Yorkshire  and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  that  trithing  ;  as  on  !)  June 
last  by  other  letters  patent  the  king^  appointed  Michael  do  la  Pole,  the 
mayor  of  the  said  town  for  the  time  being,  Walter  Frost,  Peter  de 
Grymesby,  Robert  de  Selby,  Robert  Sturmy  and  the  said  Roger  and 
Roger  guardians  of  the  peace  and  seven,  six,  five,  four,  three  and 
two  of  them  justices  therein,  and  to  perform  in  that  town  singular  other 
the  premises. 

Nov.  6.  To     the    sheriff    of     Lincoln.        Order    by    mainprise    of    John 

Westminster.  Wythornwyk  clerk  and  others  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's 
late  writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to  cause  Richard  de  Weston  chaplain 
to  come  before  him  etc.  (as  above,  p.  463). 

Dec.  15.  Henry  Herbury  citizen  of  London  to  Robert  de  Muskham  clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of 
his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Henry 
shall  cause  the  said  Robert  to  be  discharged  toward  John  de  Multon 
knight,  by  the  said  John's  acquittance,  of  50  marks  by  the  said  Robert 
paid  to  the  said  Henry  in  the  said  John's  name,  or  shall  pay  those 
50  marks  again  to  the  said  Robert  about  Whitsuntide  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Oct.  28.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order,  while 

Westminster,  a  plea  between  the  king  and  Joan  who  was  wife  of  John  de 
Hevenyngham  knight  concerning  the  manor  of  Totham  co.  Essex 
is  pending  before  them  without  debate,  or  until  further  order,  to 
stay  the  demand  which  they  are  making  by  exchequer  summons 
against  the  said  Joan  for  payment  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  the 
king's   use. 

Alice  Roos  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Shirbume,  to  have 
for  life  such  maintenance  as  William  Beausamys  in  his  life  time  had 
there   at   the   king's  command.  By  p.s.  [31223.] 


Dec.  13. 

Havering 
manor. 


Dec.  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  by  mainprise  of  William 
Westminster.  Stamyndone,  Thomas  de  Polle  and  William  Mamy  citizens  and  gold- 
smiths of  London  and  William  Polle  of  London  '  fisshmong< >r ' 
to  stay  the  taking  of  the  bodies  of  Lawrence  atte  Hale,  John  his  son 
and  John  Herry,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ; 
as  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  Bheriff  to  take  the 
said  Lawrence,  John  and  John  if  found  within  his  bailiwick,  and  to 
keep  them  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  their  bodies  before  the  said 
justices  at  a  set  day  to  answer  Robert  Ware  concerning  an  alleged 
trespass;  but  the  said  William  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40/.,  to  have  the  defen- 
dants before  the  said  justices  the  day  the  writ  de  judicio  is  returnable. 


Wt.  11824. 


ob  30 


i   \i. i:\h\i;    OF   CLOSE    ROI  LS 


L376.  Mi  mbrane  Id — ami. 

]>,,-.  jit.  i     the  Bherifi  of  Wiltesir.    Order,  upon  tin-  petition  <>f  John  Byllo 

r.  <>t  \y>r,  by  mainprise  of  William  de  Thornton  of  Middlesex,  Thomas 

Denye  of  Vyse  of  Wiltesir,  William  Cook  of  Bampton   and    Roger 

Tovy  of  Oxfordshire  to  stay  (Ik-  taking  of  the    said  John's    body, 

bringing  this  Will  before  the  king:  afl  the  defendant  has  shewn  the 
king  that  he  is  indicted  before  the  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices 
of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Wiltesir  for  certain  trespasses,  that  the  king 
has  caused  the  indictment  to  come  before  him,  that  the  king  lias  issued 
to  the  Bherifi  a  writ  to  take  him  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  king 
to  answer  touching  the  same,  and  that  lie  is  ready  to  answer 
when  and  where  the  king  shall  please,  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all 
things;  and  the  said  William  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  body  for  body  and  under  a  pain  of 
L'ii/.  to  have  him  before  the  king  in  the  ipiin/ainc  of  St.  Hilary. 

L377. 

.1  ,n.  :>.  John  Killohy  the  elder  is  sent  to  the  abbess  and  convent  of  Wilton, 

Havering,     to  have  for  life  such   maintenance   in   that   abbey   as  John   Odiham 

deceased   had  in  his  life  time  at  the  command  of  the  king  or  of  his 

forefathers.  By  p.s.  [31255.] 

Memorandum  that  on  11  January  this  year,  at  Haveryng  atte 
Boure  in  the  kings  privy  chamber,  in  presence  of  John  king  of 
Cast  die  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre,  Henry  bishop  of  Worcester 
the  treasurer,  Robert  de  Assheton  knight  the  chamberlain,  Roger 
de  Bello  Campo  knight,  Nicholas  de  Carreu  keeper  of  the  privy  seal 
and  others  of  the  household,  John  Knyvet  late  chancellor  delivered 
to  the  king  his  great  seal  appointed  for  the  ruling  of  England  in  a 
leather  purse  sealed  up  with  the  said  chancellor's  seal,  and  was  there 
discharged  of  the  office  of  chancellor ;  and  thereupon  the  king 
appointed  Adam  bishop  of  St.  Davids  chancellor,  and  having  taken 
of  him  an  oath  caused  the  said  seal  to  be  delivered  to  him  to  keep 
according  to  the  duty  of  his  office. 

And  having  received  the  said  seal,  after  on  the  morrow  the  chan- 
cellor opened  the  said  purse  at  London  in  the  inn  of  the  friars  preachers 
of  London  in  presence  of  the  late  chancellor  and  others  of  the  chancery, 
and  there  sealed  writs  of  course  and  letters  patent. 

[Feeder  a. ] 

1376.  MEMBRANE  6d. 

Dec.  1.  To  S.  archbishop   of   Canterbury.     Summons   to   a   parliament   at 

I  minster.  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next,  commanding  him  to 

warn  the  prior  and  chapter  of  his  church  of  Canterbury,  the  archdeacons 

and  all  the  clergy  of  his  diocese  to  be  present,  the  prior  and  archdeacons 

in  person,  the  chapter  by  one  proctor,  the  clergy  by  two.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  669.] 

The  like  to  Alexander  archbishop  of  York,  W.  bishop  of  London, 
and  sixteen  other  bishops. 
[Ibid.] 

To  the  abbot  of  St.  Augustine  Canterbury.  Summons  to  the  said 
parliament. 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II.  467 


1376.  Membrane  Gd — cont. 

The  like  to  the  abhot  of  St.  Albans  and  nineteen  other  abbots, 
the  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  and  the  prior  of 
Co  ventre. 

[Report  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  670.] 

To  Richard  prince  of  Wales  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Cestre. 
Summons  to  the  said  parliament. 

The  like  to  John  king  of  Castille  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre, 
Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  and  eight  other  earls,  Thomas  de 
Wodestoke  constable  of  England,  Henry  de  Percy  marshal  of  England, 
William  de  Latymer  and  34  others,  including  Michael  de  la  Pole 
styled  admiral  of  the  fleet  to  the  northward.* 

[Ibid.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order  to  cause  two  knights  of  the  shire 
girt  with  the  sword,  two  citizens  of  every  city,  and  two  burgesses 
of  every  borough  therein  to  be  elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament. 
It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said  sheriff  be  not  elected,  nor  any  other 
sheriff,  nor  any  man  of  other  condition  than  that  specified  above. 

The  like  to  singular  the  sheriffs  of  England. 

[Ibid.  p.  671.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Bristol.     Order  to  cause  two  burgesses  of  that 
county  to  be  elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament.     By  K.  and  C. 
[Ibid.] 

To  John  de  Cavendissh  chief  justice.  Summons  to  the  said  parlia- 
ment. 

The  like  to  Henry  Asty  and  eight  others. 
[Ibid.] 

To  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge,  constable  of  Dovorre  castle  and 
warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports.  Order  to  cause  two  barons  of  every 
of  the  said  ports  to  be  elected  and  come  to  the  said  parliament. 

[Ibid.] 

MEMBRANE  5d. 

Nov.  18.  To  Roger  de  Fulthorp  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  survey 
Westminster,  and  repair  certain  walls,  dikes,  gutters,  sewers,  bridges,  causeways  and 
sluices  in  Holdernesse.  Order  to  stay  until  the  octaves  of  Trinity  next  the 
making  of  any  process  against  the  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Brustwyk 
in  Holdernesse  or  others  touching  the  matters  hereinafter  mentioned, 
that  in  the  meantime  as  well  the  said  justices  and  others  of  the  king's 
counsel  as  Thomas  Tyrell  or  others  of  the  counsel  of  Ingeliam  de 
Coucy  earl  of  Bedeford  and  Isabel  the  king's  daughter  his  wife  may 
survey  the  sewer  called  Hcdonflete,  and  the  justices  may  fully  inform 
themselves  and  certify  the  king  concerning  the  sufficiency  thereof 
and  what  prejudice  (if  any)  might  arise  to  the  king  and  to  the  said 
earl  and  Isabel,  and  that  the  king  being  fully  certified  may  proceed 
to  final  debate  of  the  business  as  ought  to  be  done  according  to  the 

*  A  name  erased  after  that  of  the  oarl  of  Cambridge.  The  constable  is  named 
after  the  second  earl,  tho  marshal  after  tho  eighth.  Three  lords  only  aro  styled 
chivaler,  namely  William  de  Morlo,  William  do  Aldehurgh  and  Hugh  de  Dncre. 


i   \i. i:\h\i:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS, 


L376t  Membram  6d    eonl. 

law  and  custom  of  England  :  as  lately  apon  a  presentment  made 
before  the  ju  as  the  king  after  learned,  thai   the  said  sewer  ought 

to  be  and  used  to  be  made  30  feel  in  breadth  and  \2  feel  in  depth, 
for  particular  and  probable  causes  laid  before  him  and  the  oounoil 
the  king  caused  the  process  begun  thereupon  before  the  justices  to 

be  postponed  to  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  last  ;  and  now  by  com- 
plaint of  the  tenants  of  the  said  manor,  which  is  held  by  the  said 
carl  and  Isahel  of  the  king's  grant  for  the  life  of  the  said  Isabel,  the 
king  has  learned  that  if  the  said  sewer  were  made  of  that  breadth 
and  depth  the  whole  country  adjacent  thereto  might  he  Hooded  and 
devastated  by  the  river  Humbre,  to  their  impoverishment  and  the 
prejudice  of  the  said  earl  and  Isahel,  and  consequently  to  the  dis- 
herison of  the  king  and  his  heirs  to  whom  belongs  the  reversion  of 
the  said  manor,  which  the  king  will  not  and  ought  not  to  endure. 

Nov.  2.  To      Ralph      Basset      of     Drayton,     Edmund     Appelby,     William 

Westminster.  Flamvyle,  John  Talbot  and  Lawrence  Hauberk.  Order  to  send 
without  delay  to  the  chancery  any  inquisition  by  them  taken  by  virtue 
of  the  king's  late  letters  patent  appointing  them,  four,  three  and  two 
of  them  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  Leycestershire  what 
evildoers  and  breakers  of  the  peace  slew  William  Hoggesson  and 
Amice  Graneby  at  Reresby,  how  and  at  whose  procurement  that  was 
done,  who  after  knowingly  harboured  those  evildoers,  and  all  other 
the  circumstances,  sending  also  this  writ:  and  if  no  such  inquisition  be 
yet  made,  order  to  stay  until  the  octaves  of  Easter  next  the  taking 
thereof. 

Dec.  1.  Richard   de    Wandesford    and    Robert   de    Bekyrton   citizens   and 

i minster,  mercers  of  London  to  Michael  de  la  Pole  knight.  Recognisance 
for  SOL,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and 
chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Dee.  2.  Thomas  Leycestre  of  Eissherton  to  John  Suthcote  citizen  of  London. 

W  3tminster.  Recognisance  for  401.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Wiltesir. 

Writing  of  William  Elys  of  the  town  of  Hoo,  Thomas  Philpot  of 
of  the  town  of  Allhallows  in  Hoo,  John  Adecok  of  the  same,  Henry 
Stoke  of  the  town  of  Stoke  and  Adam  Bedell  of  the  town  of  Hoo  co. 
Kent,  being  a  bond  to  Nicholas  de  Carreu  in  204?.  6.s.  4d.  payable 
in  the  church  of  St.  Paul  London  on  the  eve  of  the  Purification  next. 
Dated  London,  2  December  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
3  December. 

Dec.  3.  John  de  Westwicombe  to  Henry  Welwes  parson  of  St.  Nicholas 

Westminster.  Bredstrct  London.  Recognisance  for  SOI.  payable  by  instalments  ; 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Hert- 
fordshire. 

Dec.  4.  William  atte  Lee  knight  to  Nicholas   Brembre  citizen  of  London. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  20/.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Essex. 

Dec.  9.  Nicholas  de   Cameryngham   to   John  de  Waltham   clerk.     Recog- 

Westminster.  nisance  for  6  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Lincolnshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


50    EDWARD    111.— Part    II.  409 


1376.  Membrane  5d — cont. 

Dec.  4.  To  James  le  Botiller  earl  of  Orniond,  Gerard  Fitz  Moriz  earl  of 

Westminster.  Kildare,  Nicholas  Dagworth,  John  Keppok  and  Richard  Whyte. 
Order  to  stay  until  further  order  any  process  against  William  do 
Wyndesore  late  guardian  and  governor  of  Ireland  by  reason  of  the 
indictments  or  accusations  hereinafter  mentioned  or  of  any  others 
whatsoever  hereafter  taken  ;  as  lately  the  king  by  letters  patent 
appointed  them  justices  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  Ireland 
concerning  felonies,  seditions,  deceptions,  forgeries,  false  alliances, 
maintenances,  challenges,  ambidextries,  forestallings,  regratiugs, 
contempts,  trespasses,  hurts,  grievances  and  excesses  whatsoever 
committed  in  Ireland  against  the  king  and  people  by  any  persons 
whatsoever,  to  view  all  and  .singular  the  indictments  lately  taken  by  the 
king's  command  before  Robert  de  Assheton  and  Robert  de  Preston 
and  returned  in  the  chancery  of  England  which  were  sent  to  them 
under  the  king's  seal,  and  to  hear  and  determine  all  the  premises 
according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  Ireland  ;  but  the  said  William 
being  among  others  indicted  concerning  such  misprisons,  the  king 
has  set  him  a  day  to  answer  before  the  king  and  council  touching 
his  indictments  and  accusations  whatsoever,  and  to  do  and  receive 
what  the  law  shall  direct.  By  C. 

Writing  of  William  Stachesden  and  Ralph  Double  citizens  (civi) 
and  fishmongers  of  London,  being  a  general  release  to  John  de  Houden 
burgess  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne  of  all  actions  real  and  personal  by 
reason  of  debt,  account,  trespass,  contract  or  other  matter  whatso- 
ever. Dated  the  city  of  London,  Saturday  the  feast  of  St.  Lucy 
50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  Stachesden  and  Ralph  Double  citizens  and 
fishmongers  of  London,  being  a  like  release  to  John  Blakelam  and 
Robert  Bullok  burgesses  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne.  Dated  (as  the 
last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  13 
December. 

Dec.  16.  John  de  Hokkele  to  Nicholas  de  Carreu.     Recognisance  for  16/. ; 

Westminster,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Essex. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Dec.  20.         John  Michel  citizen  and  vintner  of  London  to  the  prior  and  convent 
Westminster,  of  the   house  of  the  Mother  [of  GodJ  of  the  Carthusian  order  London. 
Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  the  city  of  London. 


MEMBRANE  4d. 

Dec.  16.         To  S.  archbishop  of  Canterbury.      Order  to  summon  a  convoca- 

Westminster.  tion  of  the  clergy  of  the  province  of  Canterbury  in  the  church  of  St. 

Paul  London  or  elsewhere  as  he  shall  think  fit  at  the  earliest  possible 

date,  and  to  induce    them  to  grant  the  king  an  aid,  certifying    in 

chancery  the  amount  of  such  aid  and  the  terms  of  payment. 

The  like  to  A.  archbishop  of  York  to  summon  a  convocation  in  the 
church  of  St.  Peter  York. 

[Hep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  671. J 


170  I   \ I  l  :n  I » A i:    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


[377,  Meuiliniiit     \t1     rout. 

m.  16.  the  abbol  of  Evesham.    Speoial  summons  t«i  be  present  at  the 

Wostiiiin>t«T.  parliament  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  next  for  argent 
causes  affecting  the  estate  and  defence  of  the  realm  and  church  of 
Rngland,  although  the  king  by  letters  patenl  has  granted  the  abbot  for 
life  that  he  should  not  be  bound  to  come  to  any  parliament,  remembering 
that  he  is  charged  by  the  king  to  be  present  every  year  with  certain 
hi-  monk-  in  solemn  apparel  at  the  anniversary  of  the  late  king  at 
Gloucester  where  his  body  rests  ;  as  in  matters  so  difficult  and  urgent 
the  king  reckons  upon  the  advantage  of  the  said  abbot's  discretion, 
without  which  and  the  counsel  of  other  the  prelates,  lords  and  great 
nun  there  summoned  the  king  would  not  deal  with  the  business 
aforesaid. 
|  Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  G72.] 

L376.  mi:mbrane  3d. 

Sept.  27.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Abbotesbury.  Order  to  grant  to 
'  \v.  atminater.  John  de  Lincoln  the  king's  clerk  such  a  pension  of  that  house  as  shall 
beseem  the  givers  and  should  bind  the  receiver  to  them,  making 
him  Letters  patent  thereupon  under  the  chapter  seal,  and  writing 
again  without  delay  what  they  will  do;  as  by  reason  of  his  new 
creation  the  abbot  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  to  one  of  the  king's 
clerks  at  the  king's  nomination  until  provision  of  a  benefice  be  by 
the  abbot  made  him,  and  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  John, 
whose  advancement  he  has  at  heart.  By  p.s.  [31083.] 

Oct.   2.  To  the  prior  and  convent  of  Tortreigh.     Request  to  admit  Rotelyn 

Westminster,  de  Astery  late  servant  of  the  prince  [of  Wales]  to  that  house,  and 
minister  to  him  such  maintenance  as  Walter  Bray  deceased  had 
there,  making  him  letters  patent  under  the  seal  of  the  house  with 
mention  with  what  he  shall  so  take,  for  which  the  king  will  be  bound 
to  them,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this 
request ;  as  the  king  would  make  provision  for  the  maintenance  of 
the  said  Rotelyn.  By  p.s.  [31093.] 

Oct.  25.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Fastolf, 

Westminster.  Simon  Baret,  Robert  Kayle  and  John  Roche  of  Norffolk,  Walter 
Sibile  and  John  Churcheman  of  London  to  stay  altogether  the 
further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to 
cause  Hugh  de  Riston  and  others  to  come  before  him,  and  to 
compel  them  to  find  security  every  man  under  a  set  pain  for  which 
the  sheriff  would  answer  to  be  laid  upon  Mm  according  to  his  estate, 
that  they  nor  any  of  them  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm 
to  the  poor  men  of  the  town  of  Great  Jernemuth  or  any  of  them,  and 
if  they  shoidd  refuse,  to  commit  them  and  every  of  them  so  refusing 
to  prison,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  should  willingly 
so  do,  and  if  the  sheriff  has  taken  any  of  them  for  that  cause,  order 
to  set  them  free  without  delay  ;  as  by  the  loud  complaint  of  the 
commonalty  and  poor  men  of  the  said  town  the  king  has  learned 
that  they  are  threatened  in  fife  and  limbs  by  great  number  of  the 
great  and  powerful  men  thereof,  namely  by  the  said  Hugh,  John  de 
Beverle,  John  de  Reppes,  William  Redberd,  Thomas  Redberd, 
Richard  Elys,  Thomas  Elys,  John  Elys,  Richard  Tate,  Henry  Beneyt, 

*  The  warrant  is  dated  Havering  manor,  27  September. 


50  EDWARD    III.— Part    II. 


471 


1376. 


Membrane  3d — cont. 


Nov.  15. 
Westminster. 


Nov.  8. 
Havering. 


Thomas  de  Stalham,  Richard  de  Beverle,  Thomas  Pox,  John 
Rodynhale,  Richard  Spicer,  William  Welbourne,  John  atte  Gappe, 
Edmund  Sylke,  Roger  Adames,  William  atte  Gappe  the  younger, 
William  Pvokhaghe,  John  Herward,  Thomas  Ailsham,  Peter  Vesselier, 
Nicholas  Wildegos,  William  Worstede,  Robert  Howelyn,  John 
Rollesby,  Hugh  Fastolf,  Geoffrey  de  Fordele  and  Geoffrey  his  son, 
John  atte  Fenne,  Ralph  Pampyng,  Thomas  Drax  and  Robert  de 
Beverlee  ;  but  the  said  John  Fastolf  and  the  others,  appearing  in 
person  in  chancery,  have  mainperncd  under  a  pain  of  200/.  that  the 
defendants  or  any  of  them  shall  do  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to 
the  commonalty  or  poor  men  aforesaid. 

To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Kentwode 
knight,  Thomas  Chelreye,  William  atte  Wode  of  Berkshire  and  Thomas 
Louches  of  Oxfordshire  to  stay  the  further  execution  of  the  king's 
late  writ  ordering  the  sheriffs  to  cause  Adam  Loches  knight  to  come 
before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a 
pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would 
answer,  would  mainpem  that  he  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily 
hurt,  harm  or  grievance  to  Cicely  who  was  wife  of  John  Pohun 
knight,  her  men  or  servants,  or  to  her  houses  by  burning,  and  if 
he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  Neugate  prison  there  to  be  kept 
in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  and  if  the  said  Adam 
be  taken  and  imprisoned,  order  to  set  him  free  ;  as  that  writ  issued 
at  the  petition  of  the  said  Cicely,  averring  that  the  said  Adam 
threatened  her  in  life  and  limbs,  her  men  and  servants,  and  to  burn 
her  houses  ;  but  the  said  John  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  40/. 

To  the  prior  and  convent  of  Roucestre.  Request  to  admit  to  that 
house  Edmund  Tettesworth  one  of  the  king's  Serjeants  at  arms,  and 
to  minister  to  him  such  maintenance  as  Richard  de  Clopton  deceased 
had,  making  him  letters  patent  under  the  seal  of  the  said  house  with 
mention  of  what  he  shall  so  take,  and  writing  again  by  the  bearer 
what  they  will  do  at  this  request ;  as  the  king  has  thought  fit  to 
send  the  said  Edmund  to  them  willing  to  make  provision  for  his 
maintenance.  By  p. s.  [31156.] 


Sept.  24.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Ralph  de 
Westminster.  Pynyngton  of  Lancashire  and  Nicholas  Porter  of  Middlesex  to  stay 
the  further  publication  of  the  exigents  against  Stephen  Scarlet  and 
the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  West- 
minster, although  lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs 
to  put  the  said  Stephen  in  exigents  from  busting  to  busting  until 
outlawed  if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take 
him  and  keep  him  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the 
said  justices  on  the  morrow  of  St.  Martin  to  answer  William  de 
Barowe  executor  of  John  de  Barowe  and  John  Cretyn  of  London 
'broydurere'  and  Joan  his  wife  [co]  executrix  of  the  said  William  of  the 
testament  aforesaid  concerning  a  plea  that  he  should  lender  them 
5  marks  ;  as  the  said  Ralph  and  Nicholas  have  mainperned  in  oharn  • 
under  a  pain  of  5  marks  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justice  it 
the  day  named. 


172  I   \l. i:\h\i:    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


[  [377  ■.-]  Jfi  mi" ant  3d    cent. 

Writing  of  Richard  Bereford  of  Norwich  and  Catherine  his  wife, 
being  a  bond  to  Richard  Blak  citizen  of  London  and  Nicholas 
Horaeth  of  Wygynhale  oo.  Nbrffolk  in  1 ,000  marks  payable  in  the 
dwelling  house  01  Simon  de  Castro  clerk  at  London  on  the  first  Sunday 
in  Li ni  next.  Dated  Saturday  before  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul 
60  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  January  this  year  (sic). 

[1376-7.]  Membrane  -id. 

reement,  composition  and  pact  made  by  the  good  offices  of 
Henry  Lord  de  Percy  between  Thomas  Pigot,  Hugh  de  Garwell,  John 
Budliston,  Nicholas  Cameryngham,  Thomas  Serby,  John  Creton, 
Gilberl  de  Kyme,  John  Clyve,  .John  Grene  of  Grantham,  John  Broun, 
Willi, im  kyrnyngton.  Sir  Ralph  de  Brokelesby,  John  (raldham, 
Richard  le  Wen-.  Gilbert  Messager  of  Harliston,  Robert  Heyford 
of  Seyton,  .John  Wikford,  Robert  Grantham,  Richard  Chestirfeld, 
John  Bate,  John  Derfeld,  .John  Tokc,  Robert  Messy  ngham,  Jolin 
Chesterfeld,  William  de  Byley,  Roger  de  Taterishale,  William 
Snelston,  Walter  de  Withcall  of  Barlynges,  Henry  Bukeden  of 
Staunford,  .John  Warner,  Richard  de  Weston,  Thomas  Pygot,  William 
Lewyne,  Robert  Shellere  of  Appelby,  John  Wetwang,  Robert 
Barnabe,  John  Otteby  and  Robert  Bernesby  certain  merchants  of 
Lincoln  and  the  county  thereof  and  the  other  neighbouring  parts 
and  the  following  citizens  of  Florence,  namely  Peter  Marchi,  Nicholas 
Luke  factors  and  proctors  or  fellows  of  the  fellowship  of  the  Alberti, 
John  Credy,  Francis  Johan  factors  and  proctors  or  fellows  of  the 
fellowship  of  Charles  de  Strociis,  Bernard  Georgii  and  Bernard 
Antonii  factors  and  proctors  or  fellows  of  the  fellowship  of  Signor 
Pazzinus  de  Strozzie  and  Nicholas  Russelli  de  Strozzis  of  Florence, 
between  whom  a  dispute  was  opened  before  the  king  or  his  council, 
which  dispute  was  yet  pending  without  debate,  namely  that  the 
dispute  should  lx'  altogether  stayed  and  no  proceeding  be  therein  had 
until  1  August  next,  so  that  the  same  should  remain  in  the  same  state 
and  on  the  same  terms  as  before  this  agreement  began  ;  and  without 
acknowledging  themselves  bound  to  the  matters  herein  written  the 
said  merchants  of  Florence  promised  and  in  presence  of  the  said  lord 
and  others  swore  upon  the  gospels  and  in  his  hands  that  they  would 
write  to  their  friends  whose  proctors,  factors  or  fellows  they  are, 
in  good  faith  without  fraud  or  covin  to  give  and  procure  for  the  mer- 
chants of  Lincoln,  their  proctor  or  proctors,  all  aid,  counsel  and  favour 
tiny  may  in  the  city  of  Florence  and  elsewhere  in  Italy  against 
Thomazinus  and  Dynus  de  Blancardis,  Nicholas  Johan  de  Perucis 
of  Florence  and  the  fellows  late  of  Arnald  Johan  de  Perucis  and  their 
goods,  the  said  Thomas,  Dynus  and  Nicholas  having  departed  with 
money  of  the  said  merchants  of  Lincoln,  to  the  end  they  should  be 
thereof  contented  as  they  ought  to  be,  or  should  be  satisfied  by  way 
of  friendly  treaty  and  agreement,  and  in  case  no  such  agreement 
should  be  made  between  the  merchants  of  Lincoln  and  the  defaulters, 
that  they  the  said  citizens  of  Florence  should  on  1  August  appear 
before  the  king  or  his  council  at  Westminster  to  terminate  the  said 
dispute,  and  would  there  wait  until  the  same  might  finally  be  deter- 
mined by  judgment  of  the  king's  court,  and  be  obedient  to  such  judg- 
ment of  the  court  in  so  far  as  they  are  bound  to  be,  this  being  expressly 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II.  473 


[1376-7.]  Membrane  2d — cont. 

declared  that  in  the  mean  time  it  should  be  lawful  for  the  said 
merchants  of  Florence  and  every  of  them  without  arrest,  trouble 
or  disturbance  freely  to  stand  with  their  merchandise  and  pass 
throughout  the  whole  realm  of  England,  and  thence  to  pass  over  sea 
once  or  oftener  as  they  would  or  any  of  them,  provided  that  they 
should  appear  etc.  at  the  said  term  or  at  such  later  term  as  should 
be  by  their  proctors  appointed  ;  also  they  and  every  of  them  promised 
and  swore  each  and  every  of  them  for  all  and  one  for  another,  and 
Nicholas  Rosselli  of  the  fellowship  of  Thomas  Marc  hi  de  Strozzis 
likewise  at  their  command  and  prayers,  that  they  and  every  of  them 
should  take  heed  to  observe  all  those  promises,  and  if  any  of  them 
should  not  appear  at  the  term  aforesaid,  that  the  said  Nicholas  should 
appear  on  1  December  1377  at  Westminster  before  the  king  or  his 
representative,  there  waiting  as  he  ought  to  do,  and  being  obedient 
to  the  judgments  of  the  king's  court  ;  and  the  parties  expressly  agreed 
together  that,  if  by  reason  of  the  publication  by  the  pope  of  any 
processes  or  general  sentence  of  excommunication  or  interdict  against 
the  men  of  Florence  the  said  merchants  of  Florence  should  by  the 
king  and  council  or  by  any  other  having  jurisdiction  or  power  be 
compelled  to  depart  from  England,  they  should  not  be  bound  to 
appear  at  Westminster  on  1  August  or  at  such  later  term  as  aforesaid  ; 
and  that  the  said  merchants  of  Florence  should  at  their  own  cost 
send  two  or  one  of  them  to  Italy,  namely  to  the  cities  of  Venice, 
Padua,  Pisa,  Ferrara,  Perusia  and  Luca  and  to  all  other  castles  and 
places  which  are  of  the  league  of  Florence,  if  need  be  and  if  by  the 
proctor  of  the  merchants  of  Lincoln  required,  to  procure  so  far  as 
they  may  that  the  merchants  of  Lincoln  be  contented  of  all  debts 
whereof  the  merchants  of  Florence  or  any  of  them  are  bound  to 
content  them  or  any  of  them,  swearing  further  that  they  would  not 
trouble  or  hinder  the  proctors  of  the  merchants  of  Lincoln  now  or 
hereafter  sent  to  Italy  for  recovery  of  such  debts,  nor  so  far  as  in  them 
lies  suffer  them  to  be  troubled  or  hindered  directly  or  indirectly, 
publicly  or  secretly,  within  the  territory  of  Florence  or  elsewhere, 
but  would  minister  to  such  proctors  all  counsel  and  favour  without 
fraud  and  covin  ;  and  that  they  would  give  security  in  chancery 
for  observance  of  all  things  above  rehearsed  as  is  used  to  be  done 
according  to  the  manner  and  practice  of  that  court. 

Record  of  proceedings  before  the  king  and  council,  having  viewed 
and  examined  a  petition  or  complaint  presented  before  them  by  a 
number  of  merchants  of  Lincoln  and  of  the  county  or  parts  thereof 
against  the  fellowships  of  the  Strocii  and  Albertini  of  Florence  (French 
text  follows),  showing  that  Thomas  Blanchard,  Dyno  Blanchard  and 
Nicholas  Johan  factors  and  merchants  and  fellows  of  the  fellowships 
of  the  Albertins  and  Stroces  and  all  the  other  companies  of  merchants 
of  Florence  have  at  divers  times  since  Michaelmas  last  received  of 
the  said  English  merchants  divers  merchandise  by  way  of  purchase 
to  the  value  of  10,000Z.  for  which  as  well  they  as  all  their  fellows 
are  severally  bound  in  divers  sums  payable  at  particular  terms  and 
places  to  the  said  English  merchants,  as  appears  by  deeds  which 
they  arc  ready  to  produce,  and  that  the  said  merchants  of  Florence 
are  escaped  suddenly  out  of  the  realm  without  having  recompensed 
the  English  merchants  for  their  merchandise,  to  their  undoing  and 
the  ruin  of  the  city  of  Lincoln  if  a  remedy  be  not  applied,  and  praying 


iTJ  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


|  1 . 1 7»i  7.  ]  Mi  mbram  %2<I    cont. 

that  tin'  goods  ami  persons  of  merchants  of  the  Mid  companies 
within  the  realm  may  be  arrested  or  otherwise  put  to  answer  before 
the  council  until  Buch  recompense  be   math'  or  the    matter  debated 

oording  to  right;  when  after  viewing  the  proofs  or  evidences  pro- 
duced by  either  party  and  singular  the  acts  done  on  cither  side,  the 

unci]  declared  thai  Nicholas  Russelli  of  the  Strocii  of  Florence  and 

liis  fellows  of   thai    company  are   in   no   wise   hound   to   the   incicliants 

of  Lincoln  and  Lincolnshire  or  to  any  of  them,  by  this  sentence  acquit- 
ting the  said  Nicholas  and  his  fellows  of  the  said  petition  and  com- 
plaint and  all  process  following  the  same,  and  imposing  silence  upon 
the  merchants  of  Lincoln  and  Lincolnshire  touching  the  matters 
therein  contained.  And  after  the  said  Nicholas,  notwithstanding 
that  decree,  then  and  there  promised  the  said  citizens  of  Lincoln  upon 
their  solemn  stipulation  that  in  case  John  Bat  merchant  of  Lincoln 
or  any  proctor  of  the  merchants  of  Lincoln  in  the  city  of  Florence 
or  elsewhere  may  and  shall  before  I  August  next  lawfully  prove  by 
acknowledgment  of  the  parties,  by  any  witnesses  of  Italy  and  especially 
of  the  city  of  Florence,  or  by  notarial  instruments  duly  made,  that 
he  the  said  Nicholas  or  Thomas  Marchi  or  any  other  of  their  fellowship 
had  aught  of  the  goods  of  Thomas  and  Dynus  Blanc-hard  or  of  Nicholas 
Arnaldi,  John  de  Perusia  or  one  of  them,  this  sentence  ought  to  be 
of  none  avail  to  the  said  Nicholas  or  his  fellows,  to  prevent  their  being 
hound  to  the  merchants  of  Lincoln  and  Lincolnshire  to  make 
restitution  of  all  they  or  any  of  them  shall  be  proved  to  have  of  the 
said  goods,  and  that  in  such  case  he  the  said  Nicholas  by  solemn 
stipulation  expressly  binds  himself  as  principal  debtor  and  his  fellows 
to  make  such  restitution  to  the  merchants  of  Lincoln,  willing  and 
promising  that  the  said  sentence  shall  be  of  no  force  or  avail  to  avoid 
this  undertaking,  which  he  the  said  Nicholas  has  made  for  Peter 
Marchi  and  Nicholas  Luce  fellows  or  factors  of  the  fellowship  of  the 
Alberti,  John  Crede  and  Francis  Johan  proctors  or  fellows  of  the 
fellowship  of  Charles  de  Strociis,  and  Bernard  Georgii  and  Bernard 
Antonii  fellows  or  factors  of  the  fellowship  of  Signor  Paszinus  de 
Strociis,  himself  remaining  bound  as  he  now  is  to  the  said  merchants 
of  Lincoln  and  Lincolnshire,  and  as  contained  in  a  composition 
between  them  and  the  merchants  of  Florence,  from  which  composition 
it  is  not  his  will  or  intent  to  depart  by  colour  of  the  said  sentence. 
1376. 

Nov.  15.  To  Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk,  John  de  Butte- 
Westminster,  tourte,  John  de  Clynton,  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  Henry  de  Arderne, 
William  de  Burgh,  Simon  Pakeman  and  Robert  Burgeloun.  Order 
not  to  meddle  further  until  further  order  by  virtue  of  the  king's  late 
letters  patent  appointing  them  guardians  of  the  peace  and  seven, 
six,  five,  four,  three  and  two  of  them  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 
in  Warwickshire,  and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  the  said  letters 
contained,  in  executing  aught  therein  contained  in  the  town  of 
Coventre  ;  as  by  other  letters  patent  the  king  has  now  appointed  the 
said  Thomas  de  Ingelby  and  William,  Hugh  de  Segrave,  John  de 
Catesby,  John  de  Toft,  Simon  Lycchefeld,  John  Percy  and  John 
de  Herdewyk  guardians  of  the  peace  and  justices  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  that  town. 

Nov.  8.  To  the  sheriffs  and  coroner  of  London.     Order,  if  the  facts  are  as 

Westminster,  stated,  to  proceed  to  take  an  assize  of  mart  d 'ancestor  arraigned  before 


50    EDWARD    III.— Part    II.  475 


1376.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

them  by  Adam  Louekyn  '  grocer  '  and  Katherine  his  wife  against 
William  Acton  and  Thomas  Haysho  {sic)  parson  of  St.  Michael  Bassyng- 
hawe  concerning  the  seisin  of  Robert  de  Ely  sometime  citizen  of 
London  and  father  of  the  said  Katherine,  whose  heir  Bhe  is  it  is  said, 
of  two  messuages  and  two  shops  in  the  parishes  of  St.  Nicholas  Colde 
Abbey  and  St.  Mary  Monthonhaute  in  London,  and  further  to  rendering 
of  judgment  thereupon,  doing  speedy  justice  to  the  parties  according 
to  law  and  to  the  custom  of  the  city  of  London  ;  as  at  the  suit  of  the  dean 
and  chapter  of  the  king's  free  chapel  of  St.  Martin  le  Grand  London, 
averring  that  for  certain  causes  set  forth  in  the  king's  court  hurt  and 
prejudice  to  them  might  arise  if  proceedings  were  had  in  that  assize, 
the  king  caused  the  taking  thereof  to  be  postponed  ;  and  although 
after  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  and  coroner  to  proceed  to  take 
the  same  provided  they  should  not  proceed  to  rendering  of  judgment 
without  advising  him,  they  have  hitherto  deferred  so  to  do,  where- 
fore [the  plaintiffs]  have  prayed  that  further  proceeding  should  be 
had  and  judgment  rendered. 
Vacated,  because  otherwise  below. 

Dec.  23.  Thomas  de  Staunton  to  Henry  de  Codyngton  parson  of  Botelesford 

Westminster,  and  Thomas  de  Midilton  parson  of  Rodyngton.  Recognisance  for 
60L,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in    Notynghamshire. 

Memorandum,    of    defeasance,    upon    condition    that    Thomas    de 
Staunton  shall  pay  30/.  in  the  quinzaine  of  Michaelmas  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Henry  * 


*  Membrane   Id.  is  blank. 


(  476  ) 


51    EDWARD  III 


[377.  Mem br  \.\i-:  24. 

Jan.  26.  To  John  Bygod  esoheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  bo  cause  Richard 
minster.  BOD  and  heir  of  John  Hardy  of  Bolwyk  tenant  in  chief  to  have  seisin 
ot  his  Bald  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  Ids  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  said  heir's  nonage  ;  as  he  proved  his  ■\'ri<-  Ik -fore 
Gilbert  de  Culwen  late  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  noma 
and  fealty.  By  p.S.  L31287-] 

Feb.  10.  To  the  chancellor  of  the  university  of  Oxford,  the  sheriff,  and  the 
tminster.  mayor  and  bailiffs  oi  Oxford  and  to  every  of  them.  Order  to  cause 
proclamation  to  be  made  in  the  town  and  suburbs  of  Oxford  on  the 
king's  behalf  forbidding  any  man  under  pain  of  forfeiture  to  carry  arms 
contrary  to  the  peace  or  attempt  aught  which  may  tend  to  a  breach 
of  the  peace,  or  by  force  or  violence  or  otherwise  to  hinder  or  disturb 
the  chancellor  etc.  in  the  execution  of  their  office  in  the  said  university 
according  to  the  privileges  and  statutes  thereof,  ordering  that  they 
shall  be  suffered  freely  without  let  so  to  exercise  the  same,  and  arresting 
and  imprisoning  those  who  do  hinder  them  or  who  shall  offend  against 
such  proclamation  until  they  shall  make  satisfaction  for  their  fault 
and  find  security  for  their  good  behaviour,  so  that  it  shall  be  a  terror 
to  them  and  to  other's  hereafter  rising  up  against  the  peace  or  offending 
in  like  manner  ;  as  by  complaint  of  the  chancellor  and  proctors 
of  the  university  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  lately  strife  arose  between 
certain  masters  of  the  university  and  the  bachelors  and  scholars 
of  the  canon  and  civil  law,  that  although  the  said  strife  was  by  the 
king's  authority  debated  by  certain  prelates  of  England  and  appeased 
and  by  decree  ended,  certain  of  the  said  masters  of  their  malice  have 
gone  contrary  to  the  said  sentence  and  decree,  and  especially  Thomas 
Persoun,  John  Bannebury,  Thomas  Worth,  Geoffrey  Wyke,  John 
Alkbarowe,  Geoffrey  de  Melton  and  John  de  Bokyngham  masters 
of  arts  and  their  accomplices  by  force  of  arms  have  hindered  and  yet 
from  day  to  da}'  do  hinder  as  well  the  execution  of  divers  graces  and 
dispensations  and  the  reconciliation  of  brother  John  de  Wolfreton  at 
the  king's  command  as  the  execution  by  the  chancellor  etc.  of  their 
office  according  to  the  privileges  and  statutes  aforesaid,  and  not  content 
therewith  cease  not  to  make  great  number  of  unlawful  assemblies 
in  the  university  in  contempt  of  the  king,  to  the  terror  of  the  people, 
and  to  the  peril  of  destroying  the  university  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will 
that  the  peace  be  kept,  the  rights  and  privileges  of  the  university  be 
observed,  and  that  those  who  infringe  the  same  be  put  down  and 
punished. 

Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  5.  To  John  Parkere  of  Olneye  escheator.  in  Cambridgeshire.     Order  to 

Westminster,  cause  Edmund  brother  and  heir  of  John  de  Sancto  Andrea  tenant  in 
chief  to  have  seisin  of  his  said  brother's  lands  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  heir's  nonage  ;  as  he  proved 
his  age  before  Thomas  de  Grenehulle  late  escheator  in  Notynghamshire, 
and  the  king  has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [31311.] 


51    EDWARD    III. 


477 


1377. 


Membrane  24 — cont. 


Feb.  8.  To  William  Bussy  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Pynchebek 
called  '  Russell  maner,'  40  acres  of  hind  and  20s.  of  rent  in  Pynchebek 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  Huntyngfeld 
knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is  found  by 
inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John  Dymmok  late 
escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied 
in  the  king's  court  held  the  premises  for  life  with  remainder  to 
William  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of 
others  than  the  king. 

Feb.  8.  To  William  Bussy  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor  of  Hiptofthallet 
in  the  town  of  Toft,  36  acres  of  land  and  4  acres  of  meadow  in  Toft 
and  Freston  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William 
de  Huntyngfeld  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  it  is 
found  by  inquisition,  taken  at  the  king's  command  by  John  Dymmok 
late  escheator,  that  the  said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that 
county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied 
in  the  king's  court  held  the  premises  for  life  with  remainder  to  John  de 
Lynstede  clerk,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

MEMBRANE  23. 

Jan.  27.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Hereford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Deverose,  who  is  dead. 

The  like  to  the  same  sheriff  for  election  of  a  coroner  instead  of  John 
de  Hurtesleye. 

Feb.  3.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  Fasakerle,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

MEMBRANE  21.* 

Feb.  14.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Devon  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  Boys,  who  is  too  sick  and  aged  to  exercise  that 
office. 

Feb.  13.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Cumberland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  de  Stanlowe,  who  is  dead. 

Feb.  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Roteland  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  Thomas  Peres  of  Cotesmore,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Jan.  30.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Hatfeld,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Feb.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  Plomer,  who  is  dead. 

Feb.  20.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Oxford  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  inst<;ul 

Westminster,  of  Adam  Chcselhampton,  who  is  dead. 

*  The  face  of  m.  22  is  blank. 


178  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1377.  Membrane  21 — cont. 

1'  1>.  11.  To   John    Krancisei    merchant    of    PistOJS    (Pislnrio)   and    Augustine 

Wost  minster.    Hi'ilcloun  merchant  of  Luca  dwelling  it)  ( lie  city  of  London,  and  tO  Etogei 

de  Morten  citizen  and  merchant  oi  York.  Licence  to  make  a  letter 
of  exchange  to  their  fellows  dwelling  in  Foreign  parts  to  the  amount  of 
<>  1*007.  now  or  hereafter  received  by  Arnald  Garnerii  licentiate  in 
laws,  the  papal  nuncio  and  collector,  payable  in  the  [papal]  chamber. 

Membrane  20. 

Feb.  :*.  To  Alan  de   Buxhill  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,   or  to  his 

tminster.  lieutenant.  Order  to  deliver  out  of  the  prison  of  the  Tower  to  Henry 
de  Percy  marshal  of  England  or  to  his  attorney  without  delay,  as 
by  the  King  and  council  appointed,  all  the  merchants  of  Florence  by 
the  marshal  delivered  to  the  constable  and  lieutenant  and  there 
imprisoned.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  constable  and  lieutenant 
be   thereof  discharged  toward  him. 

Feb.  14.  To  William   Walshale  eseheator  in  Salop  and  Staffordshire  and  in 

Westminster,  the  march  of  Wales  adjacent.  Order  by  true  men  of  his  bailiwick  to 
make  inquisition  what  goods  and  chattels  of  felons  and  fugitives 
therein  are  concealed  and  withdrawn  from  the  king,  by  whom,  when 
and  how.  the  description  and  value  or  price  thereof,  and  to  whose 
hands  they  are  come,  and  to  do  further  what  pertains  to  his  office  in 
that  behalf,  certifying  in  chancery  under  his  seal  and  the  seals  of 
the  jurors  such  value  or  price  and  description,  and  all  his  action  in 
the  matter,  and  sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that 
great  number  of  goods  and  chattels  of  divers  men  there,  some  of  whom 
were  heretofore  outlawed  in  felonies  and  otherwise,  and  others  by 
reason  of  felonies  by  them  committed  became  fugitives,  wherefore 
the  same  pertain  to  the  king  as  forfeit,  are  unlawfully  concealed 
and  withdrawn  to  the  king's  prejudice,  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to 
provide  for  saving  him  harmless  herein,  and  to  be  fully  certified  by 
the  eseheator. 

Membrane  19. 

Feb.  15.  To  Ralph  Waleys  eseheator  in  Gloucestershire  and  Herefordshire. 

W(  t  minster.  Order  not  to  meddle  with  the  priory  of  Lanthony  by  Gloucestre  while 
void,  or  with  aught  thereto  pertaining,  restoring  to  the  subprior 
any  issues  thereof  taken,  but  it  is  the  king's  will  that  John  Lucy  shall 
abide  with  the  subprior  with  two  horses  and  two  grooms  if  he  will, 
to  keep  the  same  in  the  king's  name  not  meddling  with  the  goods 
of  the  house  within  or  without,  and  not  wasting,  taking  or 
having  aught  save  reasonable  estovers  as  in  victuals  by  exhibition 
of  the  subprior  or  his  representative  only  during  this  vacancy,  according 
to  the  late  king's  command  ;  as  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition, 
taken  by  John  de  Hampton  eseheator  in  Gloucestershire,  Hereford- 
shire, Salop  and  Staffordshire,  that  Humphrey  de  Bohun  sometime 
earl  of  Hereford  and  Essex  and  constable  of  England  by  charter 
granted  to  the  subprior  of  the  said  priory  for  the  time  being  that 
upon  the  cession,  death  or  deposition  of  the  prior  thereof  he,  with 
a  man  of  the  said  earl's  by  the  said  earl  or  his  heirs  joined  with  him, 
should  have  the  keeping  of  the  priory  and  of  all  appurtenances  thereof 
until  the  prior  elect  should  be  canonically  confirmed,  so  that  the 
man  aforesaid  should  dwell  meanwhile  in  the  priory  with  two  horses 


51  EDWARD  III. 


470 


1377. 


Membrane  19 — cont. 


and  two  grooms  if  he  would,  not  meddling  etc.  as  aforesaid,  that  the 
said  earl  gave  to  the  subprior  and  convent  power  so  often  as  they 
should  be  without  a  prior  freely  to  elect  a  fit  person  of  the  bosom 
of  their  church  or  from  elsewhere  without  let  of  the  earl  or  his  heirs, 
so  that  he  should  be  presented  to  the  earl  or  his  heirs  as  the  patrons, 
that  from  the  time  of  that  charter  at  every  vacancy  of  the  priory  the 
subprior  had  the  keeping  and  administration  of  all  goods  temporal  and 
spiritual  to  the  priory  pertaining,  disposing  thereof  at  will,  without 
that  that  the  earl  or  his  heirs  meddled  with  the  priory  from  the  date 
of  the  said  charter  save  by  joining  a  man  with  the  subprior  and  convent 
who  had  his  maintenance  as  aforesaid,  and  that  the  subprior  and 
convent  continued  that  gift  without  change  at  every  vacancy,  the 
said  late  king  on  30  March  in  the  17th  year  of  his  reign  commanded 
the  said  escheat  or  not  to  meddle  with  the  priory,  being  then  void,  nor 
with  aught  thereto  pertaining,  restoring  to  the  subprior  any  issues 
thereof  taken  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  save  harmless  the  priory, 
now  void  by  the  death  of  brother  Simon  de  Brokworth  the  last  prior 
it  is  said,  and  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the 
daughters  and  heirs  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford  and 
Essex  tenant  in  chief. 

The  like  to   the  following,   omitting  the  clause  concerning  John 
Lucy  : — 

Thomas  Sewale  escheator  in  Bedfordshire. 

Nicholas  de  Somerton   escheator  in   Wyltesir,   Oxfordshire  and 
Berkshire. 

Feb.  20.  To  all  the  king's  bailiffs  and  lieges  to  whom  etc.     Order  not  to 

Westminster,  trouble  or  grieve  the  now  bishop  of  Ely  or  the  prior  and  convent  of 
Ely  in  aught  contrary  to  the  charters  of  former  kings  and  to  the 
king's  confirmation  ;  as  among  other  liberties  granted  to  them  thereby 
it  is  granted  that  they  and  their  successors  for  ever  shall  have  and  hold 
the  Isle  of  Ely  with  the  waters,  marshes,  and  all  appurtenances  thereof 
free  and  quit  of  all  demand  of  the  king,  that  in  the  lands  of  the  church 
of  Ely  which  are  without  the  isle,  in  feedings,  meadows,  woods, 
waters,  moors  and  marshes  within  the  borough  and  without,  they  shall 
have  soc  and  sac,  '  thol  '  and  '  theam,'  'infangenethef,'  '  futwite  '  and 
'  ferdwite,'  '  hamsokne,'  '  grithbrich  '  and  all  other  amendable  for- 
feitures save  treasure,  and  that  the  church  of  Ely  and  the  men  of 
their  lordships  shall  in  all  the  king's  land  be  quit  of  toll  whether  in 
selling  or  buying,  of  passage,  geld  and  [da]negeld,  and  of  the  common 
forfeiture  of  shires  and  hundreds  ;  and  the  king  by  charter  has 
confirmed  those  charters,  granting  moreover  to  the  said  bishop,  prior 
and  convent  that  they  and  their  successors  should  thenceforward 
without  trouble  or  let  of  the  king  or  his  heirs,  their  justices,  escheators, 
sheriffs,  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoveer,  use  and  enjoy  those  liberties 
and  quittances  and  every  of  them,  albeit  they  or  their  predecessors 
happen  not  to  have  hitherto  used  the  same  or  some  of  them. 
Et  erat  patens. 

MEMBRANE   IS. 

Feb.  23.  To  the  keepers,  bailiffs  or  farmers  of  the  king's  manor  of  Eaveryng 

Westminster,  for  the  time   being.     Order  of  the  issues  of   thai    manor   to   pay   to 

Walter  Parker,  parker  of  the  king's  park  of  Eaveryng  atte  Boure,  the 

arrears  since  20  November  in  the  f)0th  year  of  the  reign  of  2d.  a  day, 


180  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS, 


137  i .  M,  mbratu  18  — runt. 

and   henceforward    to    pay    him    that    sum   every   day,   taking   nil 

quittance  for  such  payments  :  ae  on  thai  date  the  long  of  his  favour 

ni.  il  l.\   letters  patent  t<>  the  said  Walter  for  his  good  Bervioe  2d 

a  daj  for  his  wages,  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  during  his  life  or  until 

the  king  should  take  other  order  for  his  estate. 

I'.i  i  mt  jttih  v. 

Feb.  5.  I"  William  Buss  j  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.    Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manors  of  Toft, 
Frampton  and  Byker  and  the  advowBon  of  Frampton  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  the  death  of  William  de  Buntyngfeld  knighl ,  delivering 
up  any  issues  Cnereof  taken  :  as  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  taken 
it  the  king's  command  by  John  Dymmok  late  escheator,  that  the 
said  William  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his 
demesne  as  of  fee,  bu1  by  virtue  of  a  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court 
held  the  premises  for  life  with  remainder  to  Margery  who  was  wife  of 
John  de  Huntyngfeld  his  son.  whom  Stephen  Le  Sorope  knight  has 
now  taken  to  wife,  and  that  the  same  are  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

Membrane  17. 
Feb.  24.  To  Master  Richard  Rotour  the  king's  clerk  constable  of  Bourdeaux, 

Weetminster.  or  to  his  representative  there.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Gilbert 
Taillour  of  Bristol,  if  twelve  cloths  of  his  without  grain  are  arrested 
for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other,  to  dearrest 
and  deliver  to  him  the  said  cloths  or  parcel  thereof  detained  under 
arrest,  discharging  the  mainpernors  by  him  found  in  that  behalf,  the 
omission  of  a  word  in  the  letter  of  cocket  notwithstanding  ;  as  his 
petition  shews  that  lately  he  freighted  those  cloths  at  the  port  of 
Bristol  and  brought  them  to  Bourdeaux,  and  that  although  the  same 
were  there  cocketed  and  customed  and  the  subsidy  was  truly  paid,  the 
constable  arrested  and  detained  them  until  the  said  Gilbert  should 
find  a  mainprise  to  pay  the  custom  a  second  time,  pretending  that  it  is 
not  paid,  for  that  in  the  letter  of  cocket  are  contained  the  words 
'  duodecim  sine  grano,'  the  word  '  pannis  '  being  altogether  left  out, 
although  the  omission  was  made  by  fault  of  the  writer  and  not  know- 
ingly ;  and  Thomas  Beaupyne  one  of  the  collectors  in  the  port  of 
Bristol  has  witnessed  in  chancery  that  the  cloths  were  cocketed  and 
customed  and  the  subsidy  was  there  paid,  and  that  the  omission  was 
made  as  aforesaid. 

Feb.  10.  To  Helmyng  Leget  constable  of  Wyndesore  castle,  or  to  his  lieu- 

Westminster,  tenant.  Order  to  pay  to  the  abbess  of  Burnham  the  arrears  since 
23  October  in  the  39th  year  of  the  reign  of  a  rent  of  7s.  a  year  arising 
of  certain  lands  in  the  town  of  Eton  co.  Bukingham  now  in  the 
king's  hand,  and  henceforth  to  pay  her  that  rent  so  long  as  the  said 
lands  shall  remain  in  the  king's  hand  ;  as  lately  at  the  suit  of  the  said 
abbess,  averring  that  Oliver  de  Burdeux  lately  held  the  same  by  service 
of  that  rent,  and  that  the  rent  is  in  arrear  from  the  time  those  lands 
came  to  the  king's  hands,  praying  that  the  rent  and  arrears  be  paid, 
the  king  ordered  the  constable  by  true  men  of  his  bailiwick  to  make 
inquisition  touching  the  truth  of  the  premises  and  certify  in  chancery 
what  should  be  found,  and  it  appears  by  his  certificate  that  certain 
lands  of  the  said  Oliver  now  in  the  king's  hand  were  held  of  the  abbess 


51  EDWARD  III.  481 


1377.  Membrane  17 — cord. 

by  the  service  aforesaid  before    they  came  to  the  king's  hands,  and 
that  the  rent  is  in  arrear  since  the  date  above  mentioned. 

Feb.  22.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  without  delay  to  deliver  by  inden- 

Westminster.  ture  to  Henry  de  Percy  the  king's  marshal  or  to  his  deputy  John 
Prantyng  of  Norwich  '  cook  '  taken  and  imprisoned  in  Neugate 
prison  under  the  sheriffs'  custody,  with  the  cause  of  his  being  taken, 
to  be  brought  to  the  prison  of  the  marshalsea  of  the  king's  household 
and  there  kept  in  safe  custody  until  further  order.      By  K.  and  C. 

Feb.  26.  To  Thomas  de  Brugge  escheator  in  Worcestershire.     Order  to  take 

Westminster,  of  Constance  who  was  wife  of  Walter  de  Ribbesford  knight,  tenant  by 
knight  service  of  the  heir  of  John  Talbot  of  Richards  Castle  tenant 
in  chief,  an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  Without  the  king's  licence, 
and  to  assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husband's  lands  taken  into  the 
king's  hand  by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in 
chancery. 

March  8.  To  Thomas  Bataille  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  take  the  fealties 
Westminster,  of  Thomas  Tue  and  William  Colebayn  according  to  the  form  of  a 
schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no 
further  with  a  messuage,  GO  acres  of  land,  \\  acre  of  pasture  and  18s.  9c/. 
of  rent  in  Redeswcll  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  John 
Welde,  delivering  to  them  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the  said 
John  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  his  demesne  as  of 
fee,  but  held  the  premises  by  knight  service  of  the  king  as  of  the 
honour  of  Boulogne,  being  jointly  enfeoffed  with  the  said  Thomas  and 
William. 

Jan.  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.     Order  at  his  peril  to  receive  of  the  king's 

Westminster,  bailiffs  of  Norwich  John  Prantyng  of  Norwich,  whom  they  shall  at 
the  king's  command  take  and  deliver  to  the  sheriff,  and  to  cause  him 
without  delay  to  appear  safely  before  the  king  and  council,  there  to 
answer  touching  certain  things  which  shall  then  be  laid  before  him, 
bringing  this  writ  and  another  writ  which  the  said  bailiffs  shall 
deliver  to  him.  By  C. 

Feb.  18.  To   Edmund   de   Brugge   escheator  in   Gloucestershire.     Order   to 

Westminster,  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  manor 
of  Oxhenhale  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Thomas 
Graunsoun  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  his 
death  the  said  Thomas  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief,  but  by 
gift  of  William  Styntescombe  parson  of  Teynton  and  John  de  la  Hyde 
held  the  said  manor  to  him  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  such  an  heir  to  Elizabeth  la  Despenser  lately  deceased 
and  to  the  heirs  of  her  body,  that  the  same  ought  by  the  form  of  the 
gift  to  remain  to  Guy  son  of  Guy  de  Bryen  knight,  being  son  and  heir 
of  the  said  Elizabeth,  for  that  the  said  Thomas  died  without  issue, 
and  that  it  is  held  of  others  than  the  king. 

April  12.         To  the  chancellor  of  Ireland.     Order  to  cause   writs  to  be  made 
Westminster,  under  the  king's  seal  of  Ireland  addressed  to  Philip  archbishop  of  Cassel 

Wt.  11824.  f»  ^1 


182  i   VLENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  377.  -1/'  i"1"""'     17 — rout. 

in  due  form,  as  is  6tting  in  such  a  0806  and  as  heretofore  used  bo  bo 
done,  touching  the  said  archbishop's  letters  patent,  whereby  he  has 
signified  t<>  the  king  thai  Thomas  bishop  of  Lismore  and  Waterford, 
a  suffragan  oi  the  provinoe  of  Cassel, is  by  authority  of  the  archbishop 
as  ordinary  ezoonununioated  by  reason  of  wrongdoing  and  manifest 
contumacies  in  Ireland,  and  will  not  be  justified  by  ecclesiastical 
oensures,  instantly  praying  the  king  to  compel  the  said  bishop  by 
the  seeular  arm  to  content  holy  elnireh  for  his  contempt  and  wrong- 
doing :  and  the  king  takes  note  that  writs  for  taking  persons  excom- 
municated for  contumacies  and  wrongdoings  in  Ireland  used  not 
commonly  heretofore  to  issue  from  the  chancery  of  England,  especially 
mg  that  the  execution  thereof  pertains  to  the  chancery  of  Ireland 
under  the  seul  of  Ireland,  hut  the  king's  power  ought  not  to  be  lacking 
to  holy  church  in  her  quarrels. 

April  24.  To  John  Bygod  escheator  in  Cumberland.  Order,  if  the  same  be  in 
Westminster,  (he  king's  hand  for  the  cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none 
other,  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  the 
lands  of  Adam  Armstrang  in  Corkeby,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof 
taken  :  as  lately  the  king  by  writ  commanded  the  treasurer  and  the 
barons  of  the  exchequer  to  certify  in  chancery  under  the  exchequer  seal 
the  cause  w  herefore  those-  lands  were  by  William  de  Xessefeld  late 
heator  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  the  quantity  and  the  true  yearly 
value  thereof,  and  they  certified  that,  having  searched  the  rolls  and 
memoranda  of  the  exchequer,  it  is  found  in  a  roll  of  the  particulars  of 
the  late  escheator 's  account  from  22  May  in  the  31st  year  of  the  reign  to 
Michaelmas  in  the  .'52nd  year  that  the  said  escheator  answers  for  5s. 
for  certain  tenements  in  the  town  of  Corkeby  since  10  May  in  the  32nd 
year,  on  which  day  he  took  the  same  into  the  king's  hand  for  that  he 
found  by  inquisition,  before  him  taken,  that  Adam  Armestrang 
at  his  death  held  the  premises  in  fee  to  him  and  his  heirs  in  chief 
by  homage  by  reason  of  the  fees  which  were  of  Andrew  de  Harcla 
being  in  the  king's  hand,  and  that  the  same  are  extended  at 
10s.  a  year  ;  and  the  king  reckons  the  cause  of  taking  the  premises 
insufficient. 

Note  that  a  like  writ  concerning  tenements  in  Corkeby  taken  by  the 
said  late  escheator  into  the  king's  hand  for  a  like  cause  appears  upon 
the  Close  Roll  of  the  50th  year  of  the  reign. 

Feb.  24.  To  Master  Richard  Rotour  the  king's  clerk  constable  of  Bourdeaux, 

Westminster,  or  to  his  representative  there.     Order  (as  above,  p.  480)  to  dearrest  and 
deliver  to  Gilbert  Taillour  of  Bristol  twelve  cloths. 

Membrane  16. 

Feb.  12.  To   Nicholas   Somerton   escheator  in   the   county  of   Suthampton. 

Westminster.  Order  to  assign  to  Robert  de  LOuthe  and  Juliana  his  wife,  who  was 
wife  of  John  de  Garton  tenant  in  chief,  dower  of  the  lands  of  the  said 
John  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  ;  as  the  king  by  letters 
patent  has  pardoned  the  said  Juliana  the  trespass  by  her  committed 
in  marrying  the  said  Robert  without  the  king's  licence. 
The  like  to  Robert  James  escheator  in  Somerset. 

Feb.  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton  for  the  time  being.     Order  of  the 

Westminster,  issues  of  that  county  to  pay  to  Richard  la  Zouche  the  arrears  since 


51  EDWARD  III. 


4  S3 


1377.  Membrane  16—  cont. 

7  January  last  of  60  marks  yearly,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that 
sum  every  year  taking  his  acquittance  from  time  to  time  ;  as  on 
1  October  in  the  32nd  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent 
granted  to  the  said  Richard,  for  his  good  service  and  for  abiding  with 
the  king,  that  he  should  take  for  life  or  until  the  king  should  take  other 
order  for  his  estate  of  the  issues  of  the  said  county  by  the  hands  of  the 
sheriff  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  the  40  marks  a  year 
which  the  king  formerly  granted  him  for  Ins  wages  to  be  taken  for 
life  at  the  exchequer  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  ;  and  after  on  7  January 
last  in  consideration  of  his  good  service  the  king  of  his  more  abundant 
favour  by  other  letters  patent  granted  him  20  marks  over  and  above 
those  40  marks,  to  be  taken  of  the  issues  of  the  said  county  as  aforesaid. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Feb.  18.  To  John  Parker  of  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire.     Order 

Westminster,  to  remove  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  toft, 
60  acres  of  land  and  5  acres  of  wood  in  the  parish  of  Amondesham 
called  Whelpleyes  and  Semanes  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  Thomas  Chalfhunt,  delivering  to  William  Gramary  and  Elizabeth 
his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition, 
taken  by  John  de  Broughton  late  escheator,  that  at  his  death  the  said 
Thomas  held  the  premises  jointly  with  the  said  Elizabeth  late  his 
wife,  and  that  the  same  arc  held  of  others  than  the  king. 


Feb.  21.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Kent.     Order  to  remove  the 

Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  messuage  and  4  acres  of 
land  in  Estgrenewiche,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as 
lately  for  particular  causes  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify 
in  chancery  under  his  seal  the  cause  and  manner  of  his  taking  into  the 
king's  hand  the  lands  in  Estgrenewiche  of  the  brotherhood  of  Holy 
Cross  in  the  church  of  St.  Alphege  (sancti  Alfr'i)  Estgrenewiche  and 
the  true  value  thereof,  and  he  returned  that  he  so  took  the  premises 
for  that  John  atte  Nasshe  the  elder  of  Grenewiche  and  many  others 
there  of  the  said  brotherhood  of  the  church  of  St.  Alphege  (sancte 
Alfridis)  after  the  publication  of  the  statute  of  mortmain  purchased 
the  same  to  them  and  their  successors  of  the  said  brotherhood,  to 
find  a  chaplain  celebrating  divine  service  for  the  souls  of  John  Boyn 
the  lame,  Stephen  Sharlet,  John  Clcrc,  William  Martyn  and  many 
others  ;   and  the  king  reckons  that  cause  insufficient. 

March  9.  To  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop.  Order  to  take  the  fealty 
Westminster,  of  Margaret  late  the  wife  of  Edward  Burnell  of  Longeley  according 
to  the  form  of  a  schedule  enclosed,  and  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and 
meddle  no  further  with  the  manor  of  Longeley,  the  advowson  of  the 
chapel,  two  carucates  of  land  in  Adelescote,  20.s.  of  rent  in  Okes  and 
13s.  4d.  of  rent  in  Brokton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  her  said 
husband's  death,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king 
has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  at  his  death 
the  said  Edward  held  the  said  manor  and  advowson  in  chief  by  knight 
service  jointly  with  the  said  Margaret  for  their  lives  by  gift  of  Reynold 
de  Legh  and  Robert  de  Longeleye  chaplain  made  with  the  king's 
licence,  and  the  said  land  and  rent  likewise  jointly  with  her  of  Others 
than  the  king. 


im  I   \l. i:\h\i:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1377.  Membram   16-hjoiiI. 

To  the  same.  Order  to  remove  the  bang's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle 
further  with  the  manor  of  E1  and  IZs.  Ad.  of  rent  in  Shrewsbury 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  I'M  wan  I  Burnell  of  Longeley, 

delivering  op  any  issues  thereof  taken  :  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  l>y  the  escheator,  that  the  said  Edward  at  Ids 
deatli  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee, 
but  held  the  said  manor  and  rent  of  others  than  the  king,  and  thai 
Joan  whom  Roger  dels  Lee  has  taken  to  wife,  Catherine,  and  Eugelina 
whom  Robert  le  Keyne  has  taken  to  wife,  being  daughters  of  the  said 
Edward,  are  his  next  heirs  and  of  full  age. 


•-- 


March  2.  To  William  de  Monte  Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury.  Order  before  1  April 
Westminster,  next  at  latest  to  repair  in  person  to  his  lauds  in  the  Isle  of  Wight, 
there  to  abide  continually  with  his  men  and  all  his  household  in  such 
power  as  he  may  upon  the  defence  of  the  sea  coast  against  attacks 
of  the  enemy,  or  before  that  term  to  send  thither  sufficient  men  armed 
and  arrayed  to  defend  his  said  lands,  who  shall  there  abide  in  force 
to  resist  the  king's  enemies,  knowing  for  a  surety  that  if  he  shall  not 
so  do  the  king  will  cause  all  his  lands,  goods  and  chattels  in  the  island 
to  be  taken  in  name  of  distress,  and  of  the  issues  of  those  lands  and  of 
his  goods  and  chattels  will  cause  men  to  be  found  for  defence  of  the 
island  :  as  the  king  has  learned  that  great  number  of  his  enemies,  who 
have  ofttimes  attacked  and  burnt  divers  towns  in  England  upon  the 
sea  coast,  have  assembled  great  multitude  of  ships,  galleys  and  barges 
with  men  at  arms  and  armed  men.  purposing  therewith  as  speedily  as 
they  may  to  make  a  landing  and  destroy  the  realm,  if  their  malice  be 
not  resisted  with  strong  hand  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  provide 
against  such  hint  and  peril  by  what  means  he  may.         By  K.  and  C. 

[Foedera.  \ 

The  like  to  Robert  de  Assheton  and  nine  other  knights,  John  de 
Malewavne  and  seven  other  esquires. 

[Ibid.] 

March  16.  To  John  Legge  Serjeant  at  arms.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  Items  del  Terroun,  servant  and  merchant  of  Arnald  de  Fairolo  burgess 
of  the  king's  town  of  Leyburne  in  Aquitainc,  if  the  facts  are  as  stated, 
to  dearrest  and  deliver  to  the  said  Iterus  21  tuns  of  wine  by  the  said 
serjeant  arrested  as  forfeit  to  the  king's  use,  to  dispose  thereof  as 
he  shall  see  fit  for  tin;  advantage  of  his  said  master  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  he  bought  that  Mine  to  his  master's  use  in  Spain,  and  as 
a  true  merchant  brought  the  same  to  the  port  of  Suthampton,  and 
that  it  is  there  arrested  by  the  said  serjeant  supposing  him  to  be 
the  king's  enemy,  which  he  is  not  ;  and  John  king  of  Castille  and 
Leon  has  witnessed  that  the  said  Arnald  and  Iterus  and  the  other 
men  of  the  said  town  are  the  king's  lieges  and  true  subjects. 

April  5.  To  the  receiver  for  the  time  being  of  the  king's  lordship  of  Kerdyf, 

Westminster,  which  is  in  his  hand  by  the  death  of  Edward  lord  le  Despenser  tenant 
in  chief  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir.  Order  of  the 
issues  of  that  Jordship  to  pay  to  brother  John  Tremyr  the  arrears 
since  the  lordship  came  to  the  king's  hands  of  20.s.  yearly,  and 
heneeforw  ard  to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year  at  the  terms  appointed 
by  even  portions  so  long  as  the  same  shall  be  in  the  king's  hand, 
taking    the   said   John's   acquittance  ;    as  on   28   December  in  the 


51  EDWARD  III.  485 


1377.  Membrane  16 — cont. 

48th  year  of  the  reign  the  said  Edward  by  letters  patent  granted  the 
said  John  his  chaplain  for  life  20s.  yearly  to  be  taken  at  his  exchequer 
of   Kerdyf  by  the   hands  of   his  receiver,  and   the    king    by   letters 
patent  has  confirmed  that  grant. 
Et  erat  patens. 

April  5.  To  the  keepers,  bailiffs  or  farmers  of  the  king's  manor  of  Eltham 

Westminster,  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay  to  John 
Swetemon  of  Pencrich  chaplain,  one  of  the  chaplains  celebrating 
divine  service  in  the  king's  chapel  within  the  manor,  the  arrears 
since  29  September  last  of  10  marks  yearly,  and  henceforward  to 
pay  him  that  sum  every  year  so  long  as  he  shall  be  a  chaplain  there 
celebrating,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  willing  that  the  said  John 
should  be  one  of  the  said  chaplains  in  the  room  of  John  Monk,  and 
take  for  his  stipend  10  marks  a  year  for  life  so  long  as  he  should  there 
be  celebrating  by  the  hands  of  the  said  keepers,  bailiffs  or  farmers  in 
the  same  manner  as  John  Monk,  the  king  on  that  date  by  letters 
patent  [granted  him  so  to  do]. 
Et  erat  patens. 

Membrane  15. 

Feb.  24.  To  the  king's  butler  for  the  time  being.     Order  to  deliver  to  Alice 

Westminster.  Pereres  the  arrears  since  20  October  in  the  40th  year  of  the  reign  of 
two  tuns  of  wine  of  Gascony  yearly,  and  henceforward  to  deliver 
to  her  two  tuns  every  year  within  the  city  of  London,  taking  her  acquit- 
tance ;  as  of  his  favour  and  for  her  good  service  to  Queen  Philippa  the 
king  on  that  date  by  letters  patent  granted  her  two  tuns  of  such 
wine  yearly  for  life  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  by  the  hands  of  his  chief 
butler. 

Feb.  26.  To  Richard  de  Hampton.     Order  not  to  meddle  by  virtue  of    the 

Westminster,  king's  letters  patent,  revoked  by  judgment  of  his  court  of  chancery, 
in  the  administration  of  the  fruits  and  preventions  of  the  vicarage  of 
Estlemyngton,  restoring  to  William  de  Cristelton  according  to  the 
judgment  aforesaid  the  fruits  and  preventions  of  the  said  vicarage 
by  the  said  Richard  taken  while  the  said  William  has  been  vicar  there  ; 
as  on  18  July  last  the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  to  the  said 
Richard  the  administration  of  the  fruits  belonging  to  the  vicarage  of 
Lemyngton,  to  the  king  pertaining  for  that  Richard  Aubyn  the  vicar 
is  put  out  of  the  king's  protection,  so  long  as  he  should  stand  out 
of  the  king's  protection  ;  and  after  on  behalf  of  the  said  William, 
pretending  that  he  is  vicar  of  Estlemyngton  in  the  diocese  of  Coventre 
and  Lichfield,  which  is  the  said  church  of  Lemyngton  as  he  asserts, 
it  was  averred  that  by  colour  of  the  said  commission  he  is  put  out 
of  possession  thereof  although  he  is  vicar  by  lawful  title  by  collation 
of  the  archbishop  of  Canterbury  on  whom  the  right  devolved,  and 
although  he  lawfully  and  peaceably  obtained  canonical  possession 
therein,  without  that  that  Richard  Aubyn  might  claim  any  right 
in  the  same,  praying  revocation  of  the  commission  and  restitution  of 
the  said  fruits  ;  and  Simon  archbishop  of  Canterbury  has  at  the  bane's 
command  certified  in  chancery  that  he  collated  and  instituted  tht- 
said  William  to  that  vicarage,  being  lately  void  and  in  his  collation 
by  lapse  of  time,  and  that  by  virtue  of  the  archbishop's  mandate 
William  Tomkyns  vicar  of  Budbroke  in  the  diocese  of  Worcester  on 


4>"  l   \l. ENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L377.  '^'  ""'"''""    1 6    cont, 

July  last  induoted  the  said  William  into  corpora]  possession  of  the 
vicarage  of  Bstlemyngton,  wherefore  the  king  by  writ  ordered  the 
sluiiil  of  NVarrewyk  to  L'i\e  notice  to  Riehard  de  Hampton  to  be 
in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  St.  Martin  lael  in  order  to  shew  cause 
for  the  king  and  for  himself  wherefore  the  said  commission  oughl  aol 

to    be    revoked    and    the    said    fruits    and    preventions    by    him    taken 

ought  not  to  be  restored  to  the  said  William  as  true  vicar  of  Bstle- 
myngton,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  w  hat  the  court  should  determine; 
at  which  day  the  king  was  by  the  sheriff  oertified  that  the  said  writ  was 
returned  to  the  mayor  and   bailiffs  of  the  liberty  of  the    town  of 

•ventre,  who  answered  to  the  sheriff  thai  thev  nave  notice  accordingly 
1>\  Adam  Keteryng  and  William  Coo.  and  by  assent  of  Richard  do 
llain|)ton  and  William  de  (Vistelton  a  day  was  given  them  in  the 
OCtavee  of  St.  Hilary  following,  and  at  that  day  the  said  Richard 
appearing  by  John  Rome  his  attorney  could  say  nought  wherefore  the 
said  commission  should  not  lie  revoked,  the  king's  hands  he  removed 
from  the  said  fruits,  and  the  same  he  restored  to  the  said  William, 
wherefore  it  was  bo  determined,  as  appears  by  the  record  and  process 
in  chancery. 

Much  12.  To  In-other  William  Tany  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem 
bminster.  in  Ireland  and  chancellor  of  Ireland.  Licence,  upon  his  petition,  to 
come  to  England  for  the  purpose  of  particular  business  specially 
affecting  the  estate  and  ruling  of  that  order  touching  which  he  is 
charged  by  his  sovereign  the  master  of  Rodcs  to  treat  with  the  prior 
of  the  Hospital  in  England  and  other  the  brethren  there,  so  that 
he  leave  a  deputy  for  whom  he  will  answer  to  exercise  his  office  in 
Ireland  during  his  absence  :  as  it  is  witnessed  before  the  council  that 
the  cause  of  the  said  prior's  coming  to  England  is  acknowledged  to 
tend  towards  the  amendment  of  the  estate  of  the  said  order.      By  C. 

March  9.  To  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  constable  of  Do  voire   castle  and 

Westminster,  warden  of  the  Cinque  Ports,  and  to  his  lieutenant.  Order,  upon  the 
petition  of  John  Blankare  master  of  a  ship  called  the  ' Si. Magdalene' 
of  Donkirke  in  Flanders,  and  of  Henry  '  van  then  Overe  '  merchant, 
if  the  facts  are  as  stated,  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  them  or  one  of 
them  the  said  ship  and  the  wines  and  merchandise  whatsoever  arrested 
therein,  suffering  them  freely  to  dispose  thereof,  and  to  keep  in  prison 
in  safe  custody  until  further  order  the  king's  subjects  arrested  and 
imprisoned  as  hereinafter  mentioned,  certifying  in  chancery  all  his 
action  in  the  matter,  and  sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  their  petition 
shews  that  they  lately  touched  at  the  port  of  Suthampton  with  the 
said  ship  laded  with  wines  and  other  merchandise,  and  certain  subjects 
of  the  king  by  night  took  and  eloigned  the  ship,  wines  and  merchandise, 
and  being  driven  by  a  tempest  to  the  port  of  Wynchelse  are  there 
taken  and  imprisoned  at  the  suit  of  a  servant  of  the  petitioners,  and 
the  ship,  wines  and  merchandise  are  arrested  and  detained.        By  C. 

March  21.        To  the  aldermen  and  commonalty  of  the  city  of  London.     Strict 

Sheen.        order  without  delay  or  difficulty  to  elect  a  sufficient  person  to  the  office 

of  mayor  according  to  the  king's  will  in  room  of  the  last  mayor,  whom 

of  his  own  will  the  king  by  advice  of  the  council  has  for  reasonable 

cause  discharged  of  his  office  ;    for  it  is  the  king's  will  that  the  last 


51  EDWARD  fir.  487 


1377.  Membrane   15 — cont. 

mayor  shall  no  longer  remain  in  office,  especially  seeing  that  the  king 
has  discharged  him  as  aforesaid.  By  letter  of  the  signet. 

[Fosdera.) 

March  15.  To  John  king  of  Castille  anil  Leon  and  dnke  of  Lancastre,  or  to  his 
Westminster,  representative,  his  sheriiTs  and  stewards  or  bailiffs  and  ministers 
whatsoever  in  Wales.  Order  upon  their  allegiance,  as  they  love  the 
king  and  his  honour  and  desire  the  safety  of  the  realm  and  principality, 
upon  sight  of  these  presents  to  leave  all  else  and  ceasing  all  excuse  to 
furnish  all  his  castles,  fortresses,  towns  and  other  places  within  the 
principality  with  men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers,  with  victuals 
and  other  things  needful,  causing  all  his  men  and  tenants  and  the  dwellers 
within  the  duke's  lordship  there  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition 
to  be  arrayed  with  arms  every  man  according  to  his  estate,  and  to 
be  kept  in  array,  so  as  to  be  ready  to  resist  the  malice  of  the  king's 
enemies  of  France  if  any  shall  invade  those  parts,  that  no  hurt  or 
peril  arise  to  the  realm  or  principality  or  to  the  king's  lieges  there'  by 
means  of  the  said  enemies  or  their  adherents  ;  as  the  king  has  learned 
for  a  surety  that  the  said  enemies  and  their  adherents,  endeavouring 
with  all  their  might  to  destroy  the  realm  and  principality  and  draw 
them  under  their  own  power,  are  purposing  to  make  a  landing  within 
the  principality  with  a  host  of  ships,  men  at  arms  and  armed  men,  in 
order  to  destroy  the  king  and  his  lieges  if  they  be  not  speedily  and 
manfully  resisted  with  the  strong  hand,  and  to  do  what  other  mischief 
they  inay,  and  it  is  the  king's  will  by  every  possible  means  to  frustrate 
their  malice.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 
The  like  to  the  following  : — 

Richard  prince  of  Wales  and  earl  of  Cestre  or  his  representative 

etc. 
Edmund  de  Mortuo  Mari  earl  of  March  or  etc. 
Richard  earl  of  Arundell  etc. 
Thomas  de  Bello  Campo  earl  of  Warrewyk  etc. 
Hugh  earl  of  Stafford  etc. 
The  countess  mother  of  March  etc. 
Margaret  Marshall  countess  of  Norffolk  lady  of  Cheppestowe  and 

farmer  of  the  lordship  of  Bergeveny  in  Wales. 
Guy  de  Briene  etc. 
Reynold  de  Grey  of  Ruthyn. 
Roger  Lestraunge  etc. 
Robert  de  Ferrariis  knight. 
James  de  Audele  of  Helegh  knight. 
William  de  Wyndesore. 
Nicholas  Burnell. 
Nicholas  de  Audele. 
Robert  Penrees. 
Elizabeth  la  Despenser. 
Gilbert  Tabbot. 

The  guardians  of  the  lordships,  manors  and  lands  in  Wales  of 
Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford,  Edward  lord  le  Despenser, 
John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Penbroch  and  John  de  Cherleton  of 
Powys  respectively,  which  are  in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of 
their  heirs'  nonage,  their  sheriffs  and  stewards  etc 
[Ibid.] 


<  \i  i.\i»\i;  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  :;77.  Mi  mbratu  15 — cont. 

M  rah  16.       To  Ralph  Waleys  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.     Order  to  deliver 

to  II-  iii\  Hu»  e  boii  and  heir  of  Benn  1 1  usee,  a  moiety  of  the  manor 
of  Saperton  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Catherine  who 

Was    wife    Oi     Andrew     I'exeiel     knight,    delivering    tO    him    any    issues 

thereof  taken  :  a-  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the 
eeoheator,  that   the  said   Catherine   at   her  death  held  do  lands  in 

that  county  in  chief  nor  of  any  other  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee.  hut  held 
the  Baid  moiety  in  dower  after  the  death  of  Henry  Eusee  her  first 
husband  by  assignmenl  of  the  said  Henry  the  son  with  re\ersion  to 
him.  and  that  the  same  is  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the  fourth 
part  ot  one  knight's  tee  ;  and  on  i'.'!  September  in  the  23rd  year  of 
his  reign  the  king  took  the  homage  and  fealty  of  the  said  Henry  the 
-ou.  and  commanded  livery  of  thai  moiety  to  be  given  him. 

Membrane  14. 

April  Is.  To  William  Strete  fanner  of  the  manor  of  Rotherferd.  Order  of  the 
Westminster,  yearly  farm  due  to  the  king  for  that  manor  to  pay  to  Edward  Dalyng- 
rigge  knighl  the  arrears  since  19  March  last  of  40/.  a  year,  and  hence- 
forward to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions  during  his  life  so  long  as  the  manor  shall  be  in  the 
said  William's  wardship,  taking  the  said  Edward's  acquittance  ;  as  on 
that  date  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  Edward 
for  life  so  long  as  the  same  should  be  in  his  hand  40/.  a  year  of  the  yearly 
farm  due  for  the  wardship  of  the  said  manor,  which  is  in  the  king's 
hand  by  the  death  of  Edward  le  Despenser  tenant  in  chief  and  by 
reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir,  to  be  taken  as  aforesaid  by  the  hands 
of  the  said  William  and  of  other  the  farmers  thereof. 
Et  erat  patens. 

April  28.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 
•  minster,  lieutenant.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  John  Paas  of  Dertemuth, 
to  set  him  free  from  the  Tower  prison,  if  detained  for  the  cause  here- 
inafter mentioned  and  for  none  other  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that 
lately  certain  people,  shipmasters  of  England,  were  by  the  admiral 
to  the  westward  arrested  upon  suspicion  of  plundering  a  tarit  of  Genoa 
{Janua),  brought  before  the  council,  and  by  judgment  of  the  council 
committed  to  the  Tower,  that  the  petitioner,  for  that  he  came  in  their 
company  to  the  city  of  London,  was  with  them  arrested  and  committed 
to  the  Tower  by  John  Lcgg  serjeant  at  arms,  pretending  that  he  was  in 
person  at  the  plunder  of  the  said  tarit,  which  he  was  not,  although 
he  is  blameless  in  that  behalf,  and  that  without  fault  of  his  he  is 
detained  in  the  Tower,  praying  to  be  set  free  ;  and  it  is  witnessed 
before  the  council  by  credible  persons  that  the  petitioner  is  blameless 
therein,  and  is  imprisoned  without  cause. 

April  24.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Surrey.  Order  to  remove  the 
Westminster,  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  the  lands  of  Nicholas 
Burnell  knight  and  Ralph  Double  hereinafter  mentioned,  delivering 
up  any  issues  thereof  taken ;  as  lately  at  the  suit  of  the  said  Nicholas 
and  Ralph  the  king  ordered  the  escheator  in  presence  of  Stephen 
Scarlet  then  keeper  of  the  manor  of  Retherhithe,  whom  he  should 
warn,  to  make  inquisition  by  true  men  of  his  bailiwick  what  lands  the 
king  acquired  of  Walter  Forester  deceased,  when  and  in  what  manner, 


51  EDWARD  III. 


489 


1377.  Membrane  14 — cont. 

what  lands  the  said  Nicholas  and  Ralph  before  that  time  held  in  the 
town  of  Retherhithe,  whether  Peter  Couy  late  keeper  of  the  manor  hy 
colour  of  that  acquisition  entered  their  lands  to  the  king's  use  or  no, 
and  if  so  the  yearly  value  of  such  lands  in  all  issues  ;  and  by  inquisition 
by  him  taken  the  escheator  certilied  that  six  years  and  more  past  the 
king  acquired  divers  lands  in  Retherhithe  of  the  said  Walter  to  him 
and  his  heirs,  that  long  before  that  time  the  said  Nicholas  held  in  that 
town  2$  acres  of  land  as  well  in  water  as  in  land  in  a  field  called 
Shotenhale  as  shewn  by  metes  and  bounds  in  length  and  breadth, 
that  Ralph  Double  held  1\  acres  in  the  same  field  as  well  in  water 
as  in  land,  in  Longefeld  \\  rood  of  land,  and  likewise  in  a  field  called 
Madereshawe  half  an  acre  of  land  as  well  in  land  as  in  water,  that  by 
colour  aforesaid  the  said  Peter  occupied  those  lands  to  the  king's  profit 
at  the  time  when  he  was  keeper  of  the  manor,  and  that  six  years  and 
more  are  past  since  the  time  he  so  occupied  the  same. 


Membrane  13. 

March  12.  To  James  le  Botiller  earl  of  Ormond  the  justiciary,  and  brother 
Westminster.  William  Tany  prior  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  Ireland  the  chancellor 
of  Ireland.  Order,  upon  petition  made  on  behalf  of  the  cardinal  de 
Sancto  Marciale,  by  what  lawful  means  they  may  to  compel  Gerard 
Droem  [to  render]  account  to  the  said  cardinal,  his  proctor  or  attorney, 
of  the  cardinal's  moneys  by  him  received  within  the  king's  power, 
and  if  he  shall  refuse  to  render  such  account  or  duly  to  acquit  himself 
thereof,  at  the  cardinal's  cost  to  cause  the  said  Gerard  to  come  in 
safety  before  the  king  and  council  in  England  in  order  to  do  what  shall 
be  by  them  appointed,  certifying  in  chancery  under  their  seals  all 
that  they  shall  do  at  this  command,  and  sending  again  this  writ  ; 
as  the  said  petition  shews  that  the  cardinal  deputed  the  said  Gerard 
his  proctor  to  levy  and  collect  all  rents  and  profits  of  his  benefices  and 
possessions  whatsoever  arising  within  the  king's  power  and  to  apply 
them  to  the  cardinal's  use,  that  by  virtue  of  the  power  given  to  him 
the  said  Gerard  has  levied  and  received  many  sums  of  money  of  the 
cardinal's  goods  and  rents,  and  that  he  has  therewith  fled  to  Ireland 
gainsaying  to  content  the  cardinal  thereof  in  any  wise,  and  does  there 
abide,  praying  the  king  for  remedy.  By  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 

Feb.  22.  To  the  constable  and  sheriff  of  Pembroke  in  Wales.     Order,  upon 

Westminster,  the  petition  of  Philip  Dounston  and  Owen  ap  Warin  merchants  of 
Wales,  to  take  of  them  security  that  they  will  promptly  pay  the  same 
again  to  the  men  of  Brittany  in  case  they  shall  hereafter  be  contented 
for  their  merchandise  there  taken,  and  to  deliver  to  the  said  merchants 
in  part  payment  for  the  said  merchandise  80/.  of  men  of  Brittany 
arrested  by  the  constable  and  sheriff,  any  command  of  the  king  to 
them  previously  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding  ;  as 
their  petition  shews  that  by  assent  and  aid  of  the  men  of  those  places 
contrary  to  the  truce  between  the  king  and  his  adversary  of  France  the 
said  merchants  were  in  hostile  manner  taken  at  Garrant  and  Qdebas 
in  Brittany  with  wines,  honey  and  other  merchandise  to  the  value 
of  2807.,  were  brought  to  the  castle  of  Rywes  and  there  imprisoned  a 
great  while  until  by  good  fortune  they  escaped,  that  before  the  constable 
and  sheriff  in  the  king's  court  of  '  pipoudres  '  of  Pembroke  they  so 


190  <   \Li:\h\l:  OF  CLOSE  ROl  LS. 


1  :\ ,  , .  Mi  mbram   13 — oont. 

far  proseouted  their  complaint  toaohing  those  wrongs  against  the  men 
oft  ran  mi  .mil  Qdebas  who  abetted  1  herein  t  hat  by  prooesa  in  thatoourl 

ih.  \  recovered  L  67/.  against  the  men  of  Brittany  as  defendants  according 
tn  law  ami  tin-  custom  of  the  court,  thai  of  thai  sum  so/,  of  the  money 
of  the  men  of  Bril  (any  was  by  the  constable  and  Bheriff  arrested  and  by 
assenl  of  the  parties  lodged  in  the  hands  of  certain  the  king's  1  i « 

there  to  he  kepi  nut  i  I  at  the  suit  of  the  parties  it  should  he  adjudged 
before  the  council  to  which  party  the  same  oughl  to  he  delivered, 
and  that  the  men  of  Brittany  have  as  yet  taken  no  heed  to  come  before 
the  council  or  to  send  their  attorney  for  defence  of  their  cause, 
although  the  Baid  merchants  by  Walter  Mille  their  attorney  sued 
with  the  council  for  delivery  ol  the  money  at  the  day  lawfully 
appointed  tor  the  parties,  wherefore  the  money  remains  in  the  hands 
nt  the  said  lieges  so  that  the  complainants  may  not  have  execution 
according  to  their  said  recovery,  praying  the  king's  aid.  By  C. 

Feb.  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Nbrflolk.  Order  to  receive  Nicholas  1'ouchemakere 
Westminster,  and  Thomas  Silkman  from  the  bailiffs  of  Norwich,  and  to  cause  them 
to  come  without  delay  before  the  king  and  council  in  order  to  do  that 
which  Bhall  by  the  council  he  commanded  them  on  the  king's  behalf  ; 
a-  for  particular  causes  laid  before  the  king  and  council  the  king 
by  writ  ordered  the  bailiffs  ceasing  every  excuse  to  take  the  said 
Nicholas  and  Thomas  wherever  found  in  their  bailiwick,  and  to  deliver 
them  by  indenture  to  the  sheriff  to  be  hrought  before  the  king  and 
council  in  order  to  give  information  touching  certain  matters  whereon 
the  king  and  council  would  be  informed,  and  further  to  do  and  receive 
what  shall  by  the  council  be  appointed.  By  C. 

Feb.  15.  To  Ralph  Waleys  escheator  in  Herefordshire.     Order  to  take  again 

Westminster,  into  the  king's  hand  all  parcels  of  the  lands  of  Richard  Baskervylle 
knight  committed  to  (-iles  Malore  which  by  colour  of  the  king's 
command  addressed  to  Edmund  de  Brugge  late  escheator  were  entered 
by  Richard  de  la  Bere  upon  the  king's  possession,  and  the  issues 
thereof  taken  by  Richard  de  la  Bere,  and  to  deliver  the  same  to  the  said 
(riles  to  hold  according  to  the  king's  letters  patent  and  to  a  judgment  of 
the  court  of  chancery,  the  writ  de  non  intromittendo  hereinafter 
rehearsed  notwithstanding ;  as  upon  the  finding  of  an  inquisition, 
by  the  late  escheator  taken  at  the  king's  command,  that  the  said 
Richard  Baskervylle  at  his  death  held  a  moiety  of  the  manor  of 
Erdesley  and  the  castle  of  Erdesley  with  a  third  part  of  the  park 
by  knight  service  of  the  heir  of  Henry  de  Ferariis  tenant  in  chief,  a 
minor  in  the  king's  wardship,  and  the  lordship  of  Irdesley  and  Bollyng- 
hulle,  which  are  parcels  of  the  other  moiety  of  the  castle  and  manor, 
by  knight  service  of  the  heirs  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford 
tenant  in  chief  likewise  minors  in  the  king's  wardship,  also  the  lordship 
of  Parketon,  Wilardesley,  Wibbenham,  Breryfeld,  Croukemore  and 
Clisse  with  another  third  part  of  the  said  park,  which  are  parcels  of 
the  residue  of  the  manor,  by  knight  service  of  Richard  de  la  Bere 
knight,  the  king  lately  ordered  the  escheator  to  keep  in  his  hands  the 
lands  held  of  the  heirs  of  the  said  earl  and  Henry,  and  to  remove 
the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no  further  with  the  lordship  of  Parketon, 
Wilardesley,  Wibbenham,  Breryfeld,  Croukemore  and  Clisse  and 
with  the  third  part  of  the  said  park  not  held  of  the  king  which  were 
taken  into  his  hand  by  Richard    Baskerville's    death,  delivering  up 


51  EDWARD  III. 


401 


1377. 


Membrane,  13 — cont. 


any  issues  of  these  last  taken  ;  and  after  the  said  Giles,  to  whom 
for  a  certain  yearly  farm  the  king  by  letters  paten!  Lately  committed 
the  wardship  of  two  thirds  of  the  deceased's  lands  which  arc  held  of 
the  heirs  of  the  said  earl  and  Henry,  averred  that  by  colour  of  that 
•  command  Richard  de  la  Bere  entered  certain  parcels  of  the  lands 
held  of  the  said  heirs  and  to  him  committed  upon  the  possession  of 
the  king,  and  occupied  and  does  occupy  the  same  in  contempt 
of  the  king,  to  the  hurt  of  the  said  farmer  and  delaying  payment  of  his 
farm,  wherefore  the  king  by  writ  commanded  Richard  de  la  Bere  to  be 
in  chancery  in  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  last  to  answer  as  well 
the  king  as  the  said  Giles  touching  the  premises  ;  at  which  day  Richard 
de  la  Bere  appearing  by  John  Lintley  and  Thomas  Ligeard  his  attorneys 
did  not  deny  that  he  entered  and  occupied  certain  parcels  of  the  lands 
held  of  the  said  heirs  and  in  the  wardship  of  the  said  Giles  upon  the 
king's  possession,  submitting  himself  to  the  court  if  he  attempted 
aught  against  the  king  in  that  behalf,  wherefore  the  court  determined 
that  the  same  should  be  taken  again  into  the  king's  hand,  and  be 
delivered  with  the  issues  to  the  said  Giles. 

April  16.  To  the  justiciary,  chancellor  and  treasurer  of  Ireland.  Order  not  to 
Westminster,  trouble  or  grieve  John  Geffrey  owner  of  a  ship  called  '  la  Poulle  '  of 
Frompton  and  John  Yarnemouth  the  master  or  William  Taillour  of 
Swerdes  and  Richard  Mole  or  any  of  them  for  that  the  said  John  and 
John  bought  wheat  and  other  corn  in  Ireland  and  carried  it  over  to 
the  town  of  Bristol,  although  on  1  November  in  the  42nd  year  of  the 
reign  the  king  commanded  the  then  justiciary,  chancellor  and  treasurer 
to  cause  all  corn,  horses  and  other  victuals  and  all  men  who  are  in 
Ireland  to  be  kept  therein,  not  suffering  any  of  them  to  be  withdrawn 
without  the  king's  special  licence  ;  as  it  was  not  nor  is  the  king's 
intent  that  merchants  and  other  his  liege  subjects  of  England  should 
not  come  there  and  ply  their  traffic,  buying  corn  and  taking  it  over  to 
England  at  will,  that  command  notwithstanding. 


MEMBRANE    11*. 

April  18.  To  Robert  James  escheator  in  Somerset.  Order  to  deliver  to  John 
Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  William  Seinclere,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heir 
of  Nicholas  de  Semour  tenant  in  chief  late  a  minor  in  the  king's  ward- 
ship, his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  his  heir  ;  as  the  said  John  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  on  25  September  last  the  age  of 
Richard  brother  and  heir  of  Nicholas  son  and  heir  of  the  said  Nicholas 
was  proved,  which  Nicholas  the  son  died  a  minor  in  the  kings  wardship, 
and  the*  king  took  the  fealty  of  the  said  Richard,  respited  his  homage 
to  the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  last,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given 
him  of  his  said  father's  lands. 

April  23.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk.  Order  to  cause  Adam  Bosevile  and  Joan 
Westminster,  his  wife  to  have  seisin  of  3  acres  of  land,  and  Reynold  parson  of  St. 
Mary  Wakcton  of  \\  acre  of  land  in  Waketon  held  by  Robert  Bacoun 
of  Dicleburgh  outlawed  for  felony  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  by 
inquisition,  taken  by  the  sheriff,  that  those  I!  acres  of  land  have  been 
in  his  hand  a  year  and  a  day  and  are  yet  in  his  hand,  that  the  said 

*  The  face  of  m.  12  is  blank. 


i   \i. i:\h\i;  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L377.  \i  iiih/um  11 — ami. 

Robert  held  •"•  em  p<  -  bh<  reof  of  the  Bald  Adam  in  righl  of  his  wife,  and 
the  residue  of  the  church  of  St.  Mu\  Waketon,  and  thai  William  de 
Qwaplode  had  t hi-  year  and   a  da\  ami  the  waste    thereof  by  the 

Lin  '    lit. 

April  23.         I"  Robert  James  esoheator  in  Somerset.     Order  to  take  of  Alice  who 

mm-ui.  was  wife  of  Ralph  Russell  knighl  tenant  in  ohief  an  oath  that  she  will 

not  inaiT\   without  the  king's  licence,  and  in  presence  of  Roberl  de 

Assheton,  to  whom  the  kins  lias  committed  the  wardship  of  two  thirds 

of  her  said  husband's  lands,  or  of  his  attorney  if  being  warned  he 
will  attend,  to  assigrJ  her  dower  of  those  lands  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  the  said  Ralph's  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  he  enrolled 

in  chancery. 

Membrane  10. 

March  16.  To  the  sheriff  of  Kent.  Order,  under  pain  of  forfeiture,  on  sight  of 
bzninster.  these  presents  forthwith  to  cease  every  excuse  and  cause  proclamation 
to  be  made  on  the  king's  behalf  that  all  and  singular  of  whatsoever 
estate  or  condition  who  have  lands  in  that  county  and  dwell  not  therein, 
if  they  he  not  abiding  continually  upon  other  lands  of  their  own 
in  other  counties  adjacent  to  the  sea  coast  for  defence  of  the  coast, 
shall  under  pain  of  forfeiture  of  their  lands,  goods  and  chattels  and  all 
other  things  draw  with  all  speed  to  their  lands  in  Kent,  arraying  their 
men  and  tenants  there  every  one  according  to  his  estate  and  means, 
and  there  abiding  with  their  men  and  tenants  so  arrayed  and  with  all 
their  household  and  power  ;  and  order  to  compel  them  so  to  do  by 
distraint  of  their  goods  and  chattels,  and  if  they  have  none  by  taking 
their  lands  into  the  king's  hand  and  otherwise  as  he  may,  so  that  they 
shall  he  there  before  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  at  latest  there  to  abide 
upon  the  defence  of  the  sea  coast  against  attacks  of  the  king's  enemies  ; 
and  order  meanwhile  to  make  inquisition  and  certify  in  chancery  before 
that  date  the  names  of  all  and  singular  who  have  lands  in  Kent  and 
dwell  not  there,  and  the  quantity  and  true  value  of  their  lands  ;  as 
by  certain  his  friends  the  king  is  informed  of  a  surety  that  his  enemies 
of  France  and  other  their  adherents  have  gathered  a  great  host  of 
ships,  galleys  and  barges  with  men  at  arms  and  armed  men,  purposing  as 
speedily  as  they  may  to  make  a  landing  within  the  realm,  and  to 
destroy  the  king  and  realm  and  all  the  English  tongue  if  their  malice 
be  not  resisted  with  the  strong  hand,  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to 
provide  against  the  hurt  and  peril  which  may  arise  from  their  sudden 
attack.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 

The  like  to  the  sheriffs  of  Sussex  and  thirteen*  other  counties. 

[Ibid.] 

April  26.  To  Thomas  Bataille  escheator  in  Essex.  Order  to  cause  Henry  son 
Westminster,  and  heir  of  William  de  Ferrariis  of  Groby  knight  tenant  in  chief  to 
have  seisin  as  well  of  the  lands  of  his  said  father  as  of  those  which 
Margaret  who  was  wife  of  the  said  William  held  of  his  heritage  in  dower 
or  otherwise  for  life  after  her  husband's  death,  taken  into  the  king's 
hand  by  their  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  Henry's  nonage  ;  as  he 
has  proved  his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his 
homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [31405.] 


51  EDWARD  III. 


493 


1377.  Membrane  10 — cont. 

To  William  Walshale  escheator  in  Salop  and  Staffordshire  and  in 
the  march  of  Wales  adjacent.  Like  order  ;  as  the  said  Henry  has 
proved  his  age  before  Thomas  Bataille.  By  p.s.  [as  the  last]. 

The  like  to  the  following  : — 

John  Parkere  of  Olneye  escheator  in  Bukinghamshire. 
John  Tyndale  escheator  in  Norhamptonshire. 
Nicholas  Somerton  escheator  in  Oxfordshire. 
William  Flaumville  escheator  in  Warwickshire  and  Leycestershire. 
John    king  of    Castille  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancaster  or  his 
chancellor  in  Lancashire. 

April  30.  To  Ralph  Waleys  escheator  in  Gloucestershire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  John  Seintclere  #nd  Katherine  his  wife  to  her  dower  such  as  arc  in 
his  bailiwick  of  the  knight's  fees  and  parts  of  fees  following  of  John 
Talbot  of  Richards  Castle  knight  tenant  in  chief,  sometime  her  husband, 
taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage 
of  his  heir,  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  the  said  Katherine,  namely 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Newynton  held  by  the  prior  of  Little 
Malverne  and  extended  at  15/.  a  year,  one  knight's  fee  in  Imeney  at 
20/.,  a  moiety  and  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Astwode 
at  100s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Kyngeslond  at  20s.,  the 
moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Purshull  at  100s.,  the  tenth  part  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Elmrugge  at  20s.,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Sheldesleywaleys  at  100s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Wytton 
at  100s.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Rokc  and  Holton  extended 
at  10/.  a  year. 

April  30.  To  Thomas  Brugge  escheator  in  Worcestershire.  Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  John  Seintclere  and  Katherine  his  wife  to  her  dower  one  knight's 
fee  in  Imeneye,  the  moiety  and  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in 
Astwode,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Kyngeslond,  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Purshull,  the  tenth  part  of  one  knight's  fee 
in  Elmerugge,  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Sheldesleywaleys, 
the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Wytton,  and  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Roke  and  Holton  extended  (severally  as  above). 

April  28.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Sussex.  Order  to  cause  John 
Westminster,  son  and  he^r  of  William  de  Worthe,  tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heir 
of  William  de  Fenys  tenant  in  chief  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship, 
to  have  seisin  of  his  said  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
his  death  and  by  reason  of  the  said  John's  nonage  ;  as  he  has  proved 
his  age  before  the  escheator,  and  the  king  has  taken  his  fcalt  y . 

April  29.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  with  what  speed  they  may 
Westminster,  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England  to  proceed  in  a  cause 
between  John  Toche  of  Killom  and  [ngelram  Coney  knighl  and  [sabel 
his  wife,  concerning  5  acres  of  land  in  I  'Irani,  doing  justice  to  the 
parties,  notwithstanding  the  defendants'  allegation  that  they  have 
nought  in  that  land  save  for  the  said  Isabel's  life  by  the  king's  grant 
with  reversion  to  the  king,  so  that  they  proceed  not  to  rendering  of 
judgment  without  advising  the  king  ;  as  the  said  .John  is  suing  for  the 
premises  before  the  said  justices  in  the  king's  court,  and  by  reason  of 
that  allegation  the  justices  have  deferred  anddo  \et    defer   to    proceed 

in  the  cans.-,  and  H  is  the  king's  will  that  justice  to  the  plaintiff  be  not 
deferred . 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  ; ,  7.  M<  mbtwk   10 — oont. 

Jane  6.         To  Michael  de  la  Pole  admiral  of  the  fleet  to  the  northward.     Order, 

Westminster,  apon  petition  made  on  behalf  of  Robert  de  Selby  merchant,   to  deliver 

to  lii iii  l>y  indenture  containing  the  description  and  value  thereof  a 
crayer  oi  Nbrmandj  and  the  men.  goods  and  merchandise  therein  as 
marque  or  reprisal  in  part  of  damages  hereinafter  mentioned  ;    as  the 

said   petition  shews  that   the  master  and  seamen  of  a  ship  of  his  called 

'la  Qtorgi  '  coming  therewith  lately  at  the  king's  command  to  the 

river  Thames  took  the  said  crayer  laded   with  divers   merchandise  as 

marque  or  reprisal  for  that  great  cumber  of  goods  and  wares  of  his 

were  after  the  late  truce  I m  t  ween  the  king  and  them  of  France  taken  at 
sea  by  men  of  Normandy,  and  brought  the  same  safely  to  London  with 

singular  the  men.  goods  and  merchandise-therein  found,  waiting  to  know 
the  king's  will  in  that  behalf,  and  in  consideration  of  the  premises 
praying  delivery  thereof  to  the  petitioner  in  part  of  his  said  damages  ; 
and  he  has  paid  200  marks  at  the  receipt  of  the  exchequer.       By  C. 

Membrane  <>. 

May  5.  To  .John  de  Tyndale  escheator  in  Xorhamptonshire  and    Roteland. 

bminster.  Order  to  take  of  Isabel  who  was  wife  of  John  de  Haryngton  knight, 
tenant  by  knight  service  of  the  heirs  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of 
Hereford  tenant  in  chief  who  are  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship, 
an  oath  that  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to 
assign  her  dower  of  her  said  husbands  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  his  death,  sending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

To  William  Bussy  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Like  order  to  assign 
dower  to  the  said  Isabel,  of  whom  an  oath  has  been  taken  by  John 
Tyndale  that  she  w  ill  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence. 

The  like  to  Hugh  de  Auneslcye  escheator  in  Notynghamshire. 

Ma}'  10.  To  John  Orgoun  of  London.     Order  to  pay  in  the  king's  name  to 

W(  rtminster.  Arnald  Sasset  merchant  of  Florence  23Z.  to  traffic  withal  to  the  king's 
profit .  if  due  to  him  from  the  said  John  ;  as  the  said  Arnald  has  shewn 
the  king  that,  although  by  virtue  of  certain  articles  of  processes  made 
by  the  pope  and  published  in  the  city  of  London  against  men  of 
Florence  whatsoever  the  king  lately  caused  all  men  of  Florence  there 
found  to  be  taken  as  his  true  sla\es,  and  all  their  moveable  goods  to 
be  seized  into  the  king's  hand,  always  reckoning  and  holding  such 
goods  as  his  own  and  those  men  his  own  true  slaves,  and  by  letters 
patent  commanded  all  and  singular  the  sheriffs,  mayors,  his  bailiffs, 
ministers  and  other  lieges  to  restore  and  deliver  to  them  the  said 
goods  and  merchandise  to  traffic  withal  to  the  king's  use  and  profit, 
and  taking  the  men  of  Florence  under  his  protection,  the  said  John  in 
contempt  of  the  king  and  delaying  such  traffic  has  utterly  refused 
to  deliver  to  the  said  Arnald  23/.  from  him  due. 

May  1.  To  William  Bussy  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.     Order  to  deliver  to 

Westminster.  Hugh  de  Hanneworth  a  messuage,  23  acres  of  land  and  3  acres  of 
meadow  in  Hekyngton  and  Great  Hale  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by 
reason  of  the  recovery  thereof  and  of  the  said  Hugh's  nonage  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  he  is 
now  of  full  age,  that  while  within  age  three  weeks  after  Easter  in  the 
50th  year  of  the  reign  in  the  king's  court  before  the  justices  of  the 


51  EDWARD  III.  495 


1377.  Membrane  9 — cord.  , 

Bench  he  recovered  the  premises  against  John  de  Teuelby  chaplain  and 
John  Pylet  of  Hekyngton  as  his  right  and  heritage,  that  the  same  are 
held  by  knight  service  of  John  son  and  heir  of  Henry  de  Beaumont 
knight  tenant  in  chief  being  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship, 
and  that  by  virtue  of  certain  letters  patent  under  the  exchequer  seal 
Henry  Asty  chief  baron  of  the  exchequer  has  occupied  the  premises, 
taking  the  issues  and  profits  ;  and  the  said  Henry  has  witnessed  in 
chancery  that  the  said  Hugh  is  of  full  age,  requesting  that  livery 
thereof  may  be  given  him,  and  the  Icing  has  taken  his  fealty. 

April  26.  To  the  mayor  and  sheriffs  of  London.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of 
Westminster.  William  Houghton  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  to  take  of  him 
security  for  restitution  of  60/.  in  case  hereafter  by  advice  of  the  council 
restitution  of  the  same  shall  be  made  to  any  claiming  them,  and  to 
deliver  to  him  60Z.  in  money  and  wares  of  the  goods  and  merchandise 
of  the  king's  enemies  in  the  hands  of  John  North wyche  citizen  of  London ; 
as  his  petition  shews  that  divers  goods  and  wares  of  the  said  William 
to  the  value  of  60Z.  were  laded  in  Flanders  in  a  ship  of  John  Outresson, 
that  the  said  ship  with  those  and  divers  other  goods  was  on  its  voyage 
taken  at  sea  by  the  Icing's  enemies  of  France,  and  that  certain  goods 
of  the  said  enemies  in  money  and  wares  to  no  small  amount  are  brought 
to  the  city  of  London,  arrested  by  the  king's  command,  and  in  the 
hands  of  John  North wyche,  praying  that  part  of  them  amounting  to 
60/.  be  delivered  to  him. 

April  29.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  to  cause  a  tenement  with  three 
Westminster,  shops  attached  in  the  parish  of  St.  Botolph  without  Aldrichegate 
London  to  be  seized  into  the  king's  hand  without  delay  ;  as  by  a  process 
made  in  chancery  by  writ  of  scire  facias  the  king  has  recovered  the 
premises  as  his  escheat  against  Nicholas  prior  of  the  church  of  Holy 
Trinity  London,  the  same  having  been  of  Alan  Scarnyng  clerk,  and 
the  said  prior  and  convent  having  entered  and  occupied  the  same, 
talcing  the  issues  and  profits,  after  the  death  of  Emma  who  was  wife 
of  the  said  Alan,  who  died  on  the  feast  of  St.  Barnabas  in  the  35th  year 
of  the  reign. 

May  I.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  his  lieu- 

Westminster,  tenant.  Order,  by  a  mainprise  to  be  taken  of  them  that  they  shall 
answer  before  the  king  and  council  whensoever  the  king  shall  cause 
them  or  one  of  them  to  be  summoned,  to  set  free  from  the  Tower 
prison  John  Eremyte,  John  Scotte,  John  Brode,  John  Basse,  .John 
Walle,  Richard  Champaneya  and  Richard  Wykham;  as  they  were 
lately  impeached  for  an  alleged  trespass  or  misprision  by  them  and 
certain  others  committed  at  sea  off  the  port  of  Fortes  muth  contrary 
to  the  alliance  lately  made  between  the  king  and  them  of  Genoa  (Janua) 
against  certain  merchants  of  Genoa  who  were  in  a  ship  called  a'tarite' 
laded  with  divers  merchandise,  were  arrested  at  the  king's  command, 
and  being  after  examined  before  the  king  and  council  excused  them- 
selves thereof  in  part;  and  order  to  deliver  (hem  to  Robert  de  Hales 
prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  admiral 
of  the  fiect  to  the  west  ward,  and  that  every  one  of  (hem  should  main- 
pern  body  for  body  one  for  another  in  case  they  may  not  find  sufficient 
mainpernors. 


196  <  \i.KNh.\i:  OF  CLOSE  KOLLS 


I   mi,  M>  ml'/'iir    !•    -cant. 

M  \  90.         To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows  justices  appointed  to  hold 

Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  Q01  t<»  eoinpel  the  men  dwelling  in  the 
tele  of  Wight  or  sutler  them  to  be  compelled  to  appear  or  (  ome  before 
the  king  in  his  sessions  in  the  county  of  Suthampton,  or  to  bo  put 
Or  empanelled  upon  any  assizes,  juries  or  recommit  ions,  although  these 
specially  alleet  the  king,  contrary  to  his  will  and  order,  and  if  pleas  or 
plaints  bet  ween  men  of  t  hat  isle,  or  bet  ween  one  of  them  and  a  foreigner, 
be  moved  or  pending  before  the  said  justices  in  those  sessions  at  this 
time,  order  to  cause  the  same  to  lie  continued  or  postponedso  far  as 
they  lawfully  may.  BO  behaving  that  no  peril  to  the  said  island  shall 
arise  by  absence  of  those  dwelling  therein  ;  as  the  king  is  mindful  that 
lief  ore  all  tilings  he  is  hound  for  the  safety  of  the  realm,  and  will  thereto 
apply  himself  with  all  his  might,  and  the  Isle  of  Wight,  situate  within 
the  sea  shore  in  the  said  county,  is  specially  near  to  the  king's 
public  enemies,  which  island  they  greatly  covet  and  are  purposing 
and  preparing  shortly  to  approach  and  conquer  as  the  king  has  heard  ; 
and  although  by  advice  of  the  council  he  has  appointed  his  sessions 
in  that  county  for  holding  pleas  before  the  king  during  his  pleasure, 
it  is  his  will,  and  he  orders  that  all  and  singular  the  dwellers  in  the 
said  island  of  whatsoever  estate  or  condition  shall  attend  upon  the 
safety  and  defence  of  the  island,  and  shall  there  continually  abide, 
without  being  compelled  or  bound  to  appear  at  such  sessions  or  being 
empanelled  as  aforesaid  until  further  order  upon  any  pretence. 
( Fcedera.] 

To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.  Order  not  to  compel  men  dwelling 
in  the  Isle  of  Wight  to  appear  or  come  before  the  king  in  the  sessions 
aforesaid,  nor  to  put  or  empanel  them  or  any  of  them  upon  assizes  etc. 
although  these  specially  affect  the  king. 

[Ibid.  | 

To  Hugh  Tyrell  keeper  of  Caresbroke  castle  in  the  Isle  of  Wight, 
and  .John  Griffjj  th constable  of  the  said  castle  or  their  lieutenants.  Order 
by  all  possible  means  to  compel  the  men  dwelling  in  that  island  to  be 
intendant  and  continually  abide  upon  the  safe  guard  and  defence 
thereof,  not  suffering  them  or  any  of  them  to  leave  the  same  in  order 
to  appear  before  the  king  in  the  said  sessions  upon  any  pretence. 

[Ibid.] 

May  7.  To  all  and  singular  the  keepers  and  farmers  of  alien  priories  and  of 

Westminster,  other  lands  and  possessions  in  the  islands  of  Gerneseye,  Jereseye,  Serk 
and  Aurneye  for  the  time  being,  and  to  every  of  them.  Writ  de 
intendendo,  directing  them  to  pay  from  time  to  time  to  Hugh  de 
Calvylegh,  his  lieutenant  or  officers,  all  and  singular  the  farms,  pay- 
ments and  sums  of  money  which  they  are  bound  to  render  at  the 
exchequer  for  any  lands  or  possessions  in  the  said  islands  which  are 
in  their  keeping  by  the  king's  commission  from  the  Purification  last 
during  the  said  Hugh's  life  ;  as  on  12  December  last  the  king  by  letters 
patent  granted  to  him  from  the  Purification  during  his  life  or  until  the 
king. should  take  other  order  for  his  estate  the  keeping  of  the  said  islands 
and  all  profits  and  emoluments  thereto  belonging  without  rendering 
aught  to  the  king,  saving  the  knights'  fees  and  advowsons  which  pertain 
to  the  king  by  reason  of  those  islands.  It  is  the  king's  will  that  the  said 
keepers  and  farmers  be  thereof  discharged  at  the  exchequer.  By  C. 
Et  erat  patens. 


51  EDWARD  III. 


497 


1377.  Membrane  8. 

May  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  de  Apethorp,  who  is  dead. 

April  26.         Order  to  the  sheriff  of  York  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
Westminster,  of  Thomas  de  Lokton  ;    as  the    king  has  learned  by  credible  witness 
that  he  is  too  aged  to  perform  the  duties  of  that  office,  wherefore  the 
king  has  removed  him. 

May  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  John  Lough,  who  is  aged  and  infirm. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Gloucester  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
instead  of  John  Jo  ye,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May.  1  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected 

Westminster,  instead  of  William  Resceyvour,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  12.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Derby  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 

Westminster,  of  John  Fraunceys,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Salop  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead 
of  William  Longenolre,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

May  4.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Essex  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 

Westminster.  Waltham  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  fitz  Johan,  who  is  sick  and 
aged. 

Order  to  the  sheriff  of  [Essex]  to  cause  a  verderer  in  the  forest  of 
Hatfeld  to  be  elected  instead  of  John  atte  House,  who  is  dead. 

May  14.  To  Th.  bishop  of  Exeter.  Order  at  his  peril  to  repair  in  person  with 
Westminster,  all  speed  to  his  lands  near  adjacent  to  the  town  of  Dertmouth,  there 
to  abide  with  his  men  and  all  his  household  in  such  strength  as  he  may 
upon  the  defence  of  that  town  and  the  parts  adjacent  against  attacks 
of  the  enemy,  causing  his  men  and  tenants  there  to  be  arrayed  every 
one  according  to  his  estate  and  means,  and  to  make  their  abode  there 
continually  while  danger  threatens,  and  by  distraint  of  their  goods 
and  chattels  and  otherwise  compelling  them  so  to  do  ;  as  the  king  has 
particular  information  that  his  enemies  of  France  and  others  their 
adherents  have  assembled  a  great  host  of  ships,  galleys  and  barges 
with  men  at  arms  and  armed  men,  and  purpose  as  speedily  as  they 
may  to  make  a  landing  within  the  realm  and  destroy  the  king  and  realm 
and  all  the  English  tongue,  if  their  malice  be  not  resisted  with  the 
strong  hand  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  to  guard  against  the  hurt  and 
peril  to  him  and  to  the  realm  which  may  arise  from  their  sudden 
attacks.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Feeder  a.] 

The  like  to  the  abbot  of  Bucfest. 

[Ibid.] 

The  like  to  the  abbots  of  Tavcstokc  and  Bukelond,  the  priors  of 
Plumpton  and  Motbury,  and  to  John  vicar  of  Plimpton,  directing 
them  to  repair  to  their  lands  adjacent  to  the  town  of  Plummuth. 

[Ibid.] 


Wt.  11824. 


cr  32 


JOS  i   \i.i:m>\i:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  .77.  Mi  in1"'""'   s    cont. 

To  John  Damirell.    Like  order,  under  pain  <>i  forfeiture,  to  repair 

tO  his  lands  adjacent   to  the  town  of  IMilininul  li. 

I  Ibid. ] 

The  like  to  John  Kelle  knight .  M art  in  Ferers  and  six  othi 
[Ibid.) 

The  like  to  James  de  Audele  and  five  others,  directing  t hem  to  repair 
to  their  lands  adjacent  to  the  town  oi  Dertmuth. 
[Ibid.] 

May  26.         To  John  Parker  of  Olneye  escheator  in  Huntingdonshire.     Order  to 

bminster.  take  of  Amice  who  was  wife  of  Richard  Faroon  tenant  in  chief  an  oath 

thai  she  will  not  marry  without  the  king's  licence,  and  to  assign  her 

dower  of    her    said    husband's   lands    taken    into  the  king's  hand   by 
his  death.  Bending  the  assignment  to  be  enrolled  in  chancery. 

May  l!t.  To  John  Tyndale  escheator  in  Xorhamptonshire .      Order  to  remove 

Westminster,  the  king's  hand,  and  not  to  meddle  further  with  a  manor  in  Esthaddon 
sometime  of  John  Moris,  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  the  death 
of  John  Ragon  knight,  delivering  up  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the 
king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  thai  the  said 
John  Ragon  at  his  death  held  no  lands  in  the  cscheator's  bailiwick 
in  chief  in  demesne  nor  in  service,  but  held  the  said  manor  of  others 
than  the  king. 

March  24.        To  the  mayor  of  Lenne.  and  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies 
Westminster,  in  that   port.     Order,   upon   the  petition   of   Walter  Cowebaker  and 

Walter  Fuller  merchants  of  lloland.  to  take  of  them  security  for  which 
the  said  mayor  and  collectors  will  answer  that  they  shall  appear  before 
the  king  and  council  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  next  in  order  to 
answer  to  the  king  for  the  duties  due  at  Calais  upon  the  wool  and  fells 
hereinafter  mentioned,  and  for  the  value  of  the  ship,  wool  and  fells 
in  ease  it  shall  be  adjudged  that  the  same  ought  to  pertain  to  the  king 
as  forfeit,  and  order  by  such  security  to  dearrest  and  deliver  to  them 
a  ship  of  Caumfer,  Collard  Jacobsone  master,  the  wines,  goods  and 
merchandise  therein,  and  meanwhile  by  such  means  as  they  best  may 
to  take  information  concerning  the  true  value  of  the  said  ship,  wool 
and  fells,  and  all  the  circumstances,  or  by  true  men  of  Lcnne  to  make 
inquisition  touching  the  same,  and  before  the  said  octaves  to  certify 
in  chancery  under  their  seals  the  security  so  taken,  the  value  aforesaid, 
and  all  their  dealing  in  the  matter,  sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  the 
said  petition  shews  that  lately  in  the  port  of  Lenne  the  said  merchants 
laded  in  the  said  ship  certain  wool  and  woolfells  to  be  taken  to  Calais, 
first  paying  there  the  customs  thereupon  due  as  may  appear  by  letters 
of  cocket  which  are  in  their  hands  as  they  aver,  that  the  said  ship  on 
its  voyage  towards  Calais  was  by  a  tempest  at  sea  driven  to  the  port  of 
Flissing  in  Seland,  great  pari  of  1  he  said  wool  and  fells  and  of  their  other 
goods  being  first  cast  into  the  sea  for  their  own  safety  and  the  safety 
of  the  ship,  as  is  witnessed  by  letters  patent  under  the  common  seal 
of  the  town  of  Middelburgh  in  Seland  produced  in  chancery,  and  that 
the  said  ship,  being  laded  with  wine  and  divers  other  merchandise  and 
brought  again  to  the  town  of  Lenne,  is  now  with  the  said  wine  and 
merchandise  arrested  and  detained  by  the  mayor  and  collectors  for 
that  the  said  wool  and  fells  were  unladed  elsewhere  than  at  Calais 
contrary    to    the    proclamation    and    ordinance,    although   the   said 


51  EDWARD  III.  499 


1377.  Membrane  8 — cont. 

merchants  might  not  do  otherwise  without  losing  the  same,  and 
although  they  many  times  offered  to  pay  the  duties  due  at  Calais 
thereupon  to  the  representative  of  the  late  mayor  of  Calais  (now 
deceased),  who  refused  to  accept  them,  and  are  yet  ready  to  pay  the 
same  to  the  king. 

April  26.  To  Thomas  de  Illeston  escheator  in  Sussex.  Order  to  deliver  to 
Westminster.  John  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  atte  More,  tenant  by  knight  service 
of  the  archbishopric  of  Canterbury  lately  void  and  in  the  king's  hand, 
the  lands  of  his  father  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death  and  by 
reason  of  the  said  John's  nonage  ;  as  he  has  proved  his  age  before 
the  escheator,  and  the  king  at  another  time  took  the  fealty  of  Simon 
now  archbishop,  and  restored  to  him  the  temporalities  of  the  arch- 
bishopric. 

Membrane  7. 

May  8.  To  Margaret  Mareschall  countess  of  Norff oik,  and  Anne  who  was  wife 

Westminster,  of  John  de  Hastynges  earl  of  Pembroke  tenant  in  chief.  Writ  de 
intendendo,  directing  them  of  the  issues  of  the  manor  of  Wotton  co. 
Norhampton  to  pay  to  Geoffrey  Lucy  knight  the  arrears  since  Martin- 
mas in  the  49th  year  of  the  reign  of  a  yearly  rent  of  10  marks,  and 
henceforward  to  pay  him  the  same  by  indenture  every  year  at  the 
usual  terms  so  long  as  they  shall  have  the  wardship  of  the  said  earl's 
manors  and  lands  in  England,  the  lands  in  Kent  excepted,  and  the 
said  Geoffrey  shall  yet  live  ;  as  on  22  January  in  the  aforesaid  year 
the  king  by  letters  patent  committed  that  wardship  to  the  said 
Margaret  and  Anne  to  hold  from  Martinmas  then  last  until  the  lawful 
age  of  the  earl's  heir,  rendering  a  certain  farm  at  the  exchequer,  and 
of  the  issues  of  the  said  manor  paying  yearly  10  marks  to  the  said 
Geoffrej'  if  it  should  be  adjudged  by  the  council  that  he  had  a  right 
therein,  granting  that  they  should  have  warrant  by  writ  of  the  king 
for  such  payment,  and  directing  them  to  pay  the  said  sum  to  the  king 
at  the  same  terms  by  even  portions  in  case  the  said  Geoffrey  should 
die  while  the  wardship  was  in  their  hands  ;  and  now  he  has  petitioned 
the  king  for  payment,  shewing  that  in  the  earl's  life  time  he  took  that 
sum  no  small  time,  and  that  it  is  in  arrear  since  the  wardship  came  into 
the  hands  of  the  said  Margaret  and  Anne  ;  and  having  viewed  the 
earl's  letters  patent  and  other  evidences  produced  before  them,  it 
seems  to  the  council  reasonable  that  under  the  condition  therein 
expressed  the  said  Geoffrey  shall  take  and  have  that  rent  for  life. 

May  12.  To  John  Bygot  escheator  in  Yorkshire  and  Westmorland.      Order 

Westminster,  to  deliver  to  William  de  Botrieux  knight  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  being 
daughter  of  Katherine  sister  of  Thomas  de  Thweng  tenant  in  chief  and 
cousin  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  the  said  Thomas,  such  as  arc  in  his 
bailiwick  of  the  knights'  fees  and  (tarts  of  fees  following  which  the  king 
has  assigned  to  the  said  Elizabeth  to  her  purpart  \\  namely  the  moiety 
of  one  knight's  fee  in  Toucotes  and  (  'laphowe  formerly  held  by  James  de 

Toucotea  and  extended  at  11.  a  year,  2i  knights'  fees  in  Burton  Aunays 

with  the  soke  thereof  now  held  by  John  de  Saneto  Quintino  and  Ise 
Gryffyn  of  Harpham  at  00/.  in  Yorkshire  ;  the  20th  part  of  one  blight's 
fee  in  Stavlay  Godmund  lately  held  by  John  del  Chaumbre,  Baldwin 
Shepesheved  "and  Thomas  Godmund  at  50».,  the  30th  pari  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Preston  and  Maresshalholm  formerly  held  by  Robert 


-   \u\h\i:  OF  CLOSE  IJOT/LS. 


L377,  Mi  mbraiu  7-  cotti. 

m  of  Peter  de  Kyrkeby  in  Kendale  and  Richard  de  Preston  al  \0$. 
in  \\ "est  morland  ;  and  the  moiety  <>f  one  knight  ">  fee  in  Bllale,  Bootford, 
Asaheton,  Stodagh,  Thirnum,  Ketelfeld,  Fynchecroft,  Soalegill, 
diflegh,  Bakesterfeld  in  Bsshescogh,  and  in  Kerneford  called  Saltaore 
formerly  held  by  Richard  le  Mblyneux,  William  de  Slene.  Richard  Talbot 
and  Anabilla  his  wife,  Eenry  de  Ballerig* ,  William  de  Caton,  William 
Jaeson  of  Aldeclif,  Robert  son  of  William  Dioonson,  Thomas  de 
Ifakerathe,  Margaret  Johanedoghtre,  Robert  d«v  Haveryngton, 
Bdmund  Lorence,  John  de  Fardenshagh,  William  son  of  William, 
William  Swane  and  Thomas  de  Rigmayden  and  extended  at  5  marks 
a  year  in  Lancashire. 

M  i\  12.  To  John  king  of  Castille  and  Leon  duke  of  Lancastre,  or  to  his 
Weetmiwrter.  chancellor  in  Lancashire.  Order  to  deliver  to  William  de  Botrieux 
knighl  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  to  her  purparty  the  moiety  of  one 
knight's  fee  in  Bllale,  Scotford,  Assheton,  Stodagh,  Thirnum,  Ketelfeld 
Fynchecroft,  Scalegill,  Cliflegh,  Bakesterfeld  in  Bsshescogh,  and  in 
Kerneford  called  Saltacre  in  Lancashire  (tenants  and  extent  as  above). 

.Miy  12.  To  John  Bygot  escheator  in  Yorkshire  and  Westmorland.     Order  to 

•  minster,  deliver  to  Walter  Pedwardyn  knight  and  Isabel  his  wife,  being 
daughter  of  Margaret  one  of  the  sisters  of  Thomas  de  Thweng  tenant 
in  chief  and  cousin  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  the  said  Thomas,  and  to 
John  de  Hot  hum  knight  son  of  Maud  another  daughter  of  the  said 
Margaret,  being  cousin  and  another  of  the  heirs  of  the  said  Thomas, 
to  lie  parted  between  them  at  their  will,  the  knights'  fees  and  parts 
of  fees  following  which  the  king  has  assigned  to  them  to  their  purparties, 
namely  \\  knight's  fee  in  Quixley,  Gerwardby  and  Neuton  under 
Onnesbergh  formerly  held  by  Thomas  de  Boynton  knight,  Marmaduke 
son  of  Edmund  de  Thweng,  Robeit  de  Wragby,  John  de  Grene 
chaplain,  John  Forester  of  Quixlay  and  Edmund  de  Kyllyngwyk 
and  extended  at  201.  a  year,  1|  knight's  fee  in  Fayceby,  Standenrigge, 
Skotherskelf  and  Wyrkesalle  now  held  by  Roger  de  Fulthorp  knight 
in  right  of  his  wife,  Gilbert  de  Walton,  William  de  Clapeham  and  John 
Stormy  at  22/..  one  knight's  fee  in  Esyngton  lately  held  by  the  ancestors 
of  Cicely  de  Cotoum  daughter  of  Ambrose  de  Camera  and  now  by  the 
said  Cicely  at  !)/.,  the  moiety  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Styveton  and 
Skakelthorp  now  held  by  Thomas  de  Ughtred  knight  at  11.  10s.  in 
Yorkshire  ;  the  fourth  part  of  one  knight's  fee  in  Neweby  formerly 
held  by  Richard  de  Vernon  at  151.  10s.  and  the  20th  part  of  one  knight's 
fee  in  Sledale  lately  held  by  Robert  de  Baynebrig  and  extended  at 
20s.  a  year  in  Westmorland. 

To  John  king  of  Castillo  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre  or  to  his 
chancellor  in  that  duchy.  Order  of  the  advowsons  which  were  of 
Thomas  de  Thweng  to  deliver  to  Walter  Pedwardyn  knight  and 
Isabel  his  wife  and  to  John  de  Hothum  knight  to  the  purparties  of 
the  said  Isabel  and  John,  to  be  parted  between  them  at  their  will, 
the  advowsons  of  Conyngesheved  priory  extended  at  201.  a  year, 
and  of  Warton  church  extended  at  20  marks  a  year,  both  in  Lancashire. 

To  John  Bygot  escheator  in  Yorkshire.  Order  of  the  advowsons 
which  were  of  Thomas  de  Thweng  to  deliver  to  William  de  Botriaux 
knight  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  to  her  purparty,  the  advowson  of 
Lethum  church  extended  at  100/.  a  year. 


51  EDWAIU)   III. 


501 


1377.  Membrane  7 — cont. 

April  17.         To  Nicholas  de  Somcrton  escheator  in  Wiltesir.     Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  Thomas  Costard  a  messuage,  4  acres  of  land  and  3  acres  of  meadow 
in  Cheleworthe taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  trespat 

hereinafter  mentioned,  saving  to  the  king  his  relief  if  it  be  due  to  tin; 
king  ;  as  Margery  daughter  of  Richard  son  of  Richard  atte  Hulk; 
brother  of  Hugh  Coyter,  being  cousin  and  heir  of  William  atte  Yate 
son  of  Amabel  daughter  of  the  said  Hugh,  without  livery  of  the  king's 
court  as  the  manner  is  lately  intruded  upon  the  premises  after  the 
death  of  the  said  William,  who  held  the  same  in  his  demesne  as  of  fee 
of  the  king  as  of  the  manor  of  Cheleworth  by  the  service  of  iHd.  a  year 
and  suit  of  court  of  the  said  manor  twice  a  .year,  and  the  said  Thomas 
after  acquired  the  same  of  her  to  him  and  his  heirs,  and  without 
obtaining  the  king's  licence  entered  the  premises,  and  by  reason  of 
these  trespasses  the  same  are  taken  into  the  king's  hand,  as  is  found 
by  inquisition  by  the  escheator  taken  at  the  king's  command  ;  and 
by  fine  with  him  made,  the  king  by  letters  [latent  has  pardoned  the  said 
Thomas  those  trespasses,  granting  him  that  he  shall  have  again  and 
hold  the  premises  to  him  and  his  heirs  without  let  of  the  king  or  his  heirs, 
his  justices,  escheators,  sheriffs,  bailiffs  or  ministers  whatsoever. 

April  26.  To  William  Bussy  escheator  in  Lincolnshire.  Order  to  cause  Robert 
Westminster,  son  and  heir  of  John  de  Haryngton  knight  tenant  in  chief  to  have 
seisin  of  his  father's  lands  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  his  death 
and  by  reason  of  the  said  Robert's  nonage  ;  as  he  proved  his  ago 
before  Richard  de  Hoghton  late  escheator  in  Lancashire,  and  the  king 
has  taken  his  homage  and  fealty.  By  p.s.  [31406.] 

The  like  to  the  following  : 

John  Bygot  escheator  in  Cumbreland  and  Yorkshire. 
John  king  of  Castille  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre  or  his 
chancellor  in  Lancashire,  mutatis  mutandis. 

April  25.         To  the  sheriff  of  Surrey.     Order,  for  particular  causes  moving  the 

Westminster,  king,  to  cause  William  Fyfhyde,  taken  and  detained  under  the  sheriff's 

custody  in  the  prison  of  Guldeford  castle  it  is  said,  to  be  there  kept  in 

safe    custody   until  further   order   without   mainprise   or   any   other 

deliverance.  By  K. 


Membrane  6. 

May  10.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  and  subsidies  in  the  port  of  the  city  of 
Westminster.  London  for  the  time  being.  Order  of  the  issues  of  the  customs  to  pay 
to  Richard  prince  of  Wales  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Cestre  tho 
arrears  since  30  September  last  of  200  marks  yearly,  and  henceforward 
to  pay  him  that  sum  every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions,  taking  his  acquittance  ;  as  on  that  day  of  his  favour  the  king 
by  letters  patent  granted  to  the  said  prince  200  marks  to  be  taken 
every  year  of  the  said  customs,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  lung  granted 
that  sum  to  Edward  late  prince  of  Wales  etc.,  lather  of  the  said  Richard, 
until  the  king  should  cause  provision  to  be  made  for  William  de  .Monte 
Acuto  earl  of  Salisbury  of  200  marks  a  year  of  land  and  rent .  in  recom- 
pense for  200  marks  a  year  which  he  takes  of  the  issues  and  profits  of 
the  stannary  in  Cornwall,  over  and  above  S00  marks  yearly  for  which 
the  said  earl  is  contented  by  obtaining  certain  manors  which  w> 


I  \i. i:\h.\i:  <>r  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1 37  7.  •'/'  nbnun  6    i  "lit. 

held  for  life  by  John  de  Warrenna  late  earl  of  Surrey  and  .loan  hii 
wife  with  reversion  to  the  Bald  earl  of  Salisbury  and  to  t lu-  hens  male 
of  hia  body. 
El  erai  i«it<  n*. 

May  12.         To  the  sheriffs  of  London  for  the  time  being.    Order  of  the  farm  of 

Westminster,  thai  cit\  every  year  al   Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even  portions  to 

pay  60  marks  to  Geoffrey  de  Berdeby  of  the  order  of  friars  hermits  of 

St.  Augustine  master  in  theology  for  his  life,  taking  his  aoquittanoe ; 

as  on  8  April  last  ot  his  favour  the  king  by  letters  patent  granted 
50  marks  a  year  to  the  said  Geoffrey  for  life  or  until  the   king  should 
take  other  order  for  his  estate. 
Et  crat  j>at(  ns. 

May  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Dorset.      Order,  if  John  Boneville  late  one  of  the 

Westminster,  coroners  in  Dorset  lie  removed  from  office  as  hereinafter  rehearsed,  to 
i>  -tore  him  and  cause  him  there  to  exercise  the  said  office,  removing 
the  other  coroner,  although  upon  a  suggestion  lately  made  in  chancery 
that  the  said  John  is  insufficiently  qualified  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  cause  another  coroner  to  be  elected  in  his  stead  ;  as  it  is 
witnessed  in  chancery  by  Guy  de  Briene  that  he  is  sufficiently  qualified 
and  a  fit  person  to  exercise  the  said  office. 

April  10.  To  Nicholas  Potyn  searcher  of  the  king's  forfeitures  in  the  port  of 
Westminster.  London.  Older,  upon  the  petition  of  Richard  Forde  burgess  and 
merchant  of  Bristol,  to  dearrest  and  deliver  to  him  61.,  and  to  suffer 
him  freely  to  pass  towards  the  town  of  Calais,  the  king's  prohibition 
notwithstanding  :  as  his  petition  shews  that  though  he  lately  purposed 
to  pass  to  Calais  in  a  certain  ship  in  the  port  of  London  to  traffic  there 
as  do  other  merchants  of  the  realm,  with  6/.  only  for  his  expenses, 
by  virtue  of  a  prohibition  lately  made  by  the  king,  that  without  the 
king's  licence  no  man  should  take  any  money  to  foreign  parts 
under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof,  the  said  searcher  caused  that  money 
to  be  arrested  to  the  king's  use,  alleging  that  he  was  no  merchant, 
wherefore  he  has  prayed  for  remedy  ;  and  it  is  witnessed  by  Thomas 
Beaupeny  of  Bristol  and  other  credible  persons,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  that  the  said  Richard  is  a  burgess  and  merchant  of 
that  town  ;  and  it  is  not  the  king's  intent  that,  by  colour  of  the 
said  prohibition,  any  merchants  be  hindered  from  trafficking  in  Calais, 
and  the  said  Richard  purposed  to  pass  thither  and  nowhere  else  to 
traffic  and  for  no  other  cause. 

May  14.  To  the  keeper  or  farmer  of  the  manor  of  Eltham  for  the  time  being. 

Westminster.  Order  of  the  issues  of  that  manor  to  pay  to  Ralph  Bataille  the  arrears 
since  1  April  last  of  Gd.  a  day,  and  henceforward  to  pay  him  that 
daily  sum,  taking  his  acquittance  for  every  payment  ;  as  on  that  day 
the  king  by  letters  patent  appointed  the  said  Ralph  warden  of  his 
houses  in  the  said  manor  by  himself  or  by  others  at  his  cost  to  repair 
the  same  in  matters  which  pertain  to  the  office  of  carpenter  at  all  times 
and  as  need  shall  be,  taking  of  the  issues  of  the  manor  6d.  a  day  for  life. 
Et  erat  patens. 

May  12.         To  Thomas  Bataille  escheator  in  Hertfordshire.     Order  to  deliver 
Westminster,  to  the  abbot  and  monks  of  St.  Mary  Graces  by  the  Tower  of  London 


51  EDWARD  III.  503 


1377.  Membrane  6 — con  I. 

the  manors  of  Westmelne,  Little  Hormade  and  Mesden  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Mary  de  Sancto  Paulo  who  was  wife 
of  Aynier  de  Valencia  late  earl  of  Pembroke,  together  with  the  issues 
thereof  taken,  the  knight's  fees  and  advowsons  thereto  belonging  ; 
as  lately  by  letters  patent  the  lung  granted  to  the  abbot  and  monks 
of  the  said  abbey,  by  him  founded,  the  reversion  of  those  manors  then 
held  for  life  by  the  said  Mary  with  reversion  to  the  king  by  gift  of  the 
late  king,  who  had  them  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Richard  de 
Wynneferthyng  clerk,  who  held  the  two  first  named  manors  of  the 
late  king  in  chief  it  Avas  said,  and  the  knights'  fees,  advowsons  and 
all  other  things  thereto  pertaining,  the  said  manors  of  Westmelne 
and  Little  Hormade  to  hold  in  frank  almoin,  the  manor  of  Mesden 
of  the  same  chief  lords  and  by  the  same  services  as  before  it  came 
to  the  late  king's  hands;  and  now  it  is  found  by  inquisition,  by  the 
escheator  taken  at  the  long's  command,  that  the  said  Mary  is  now 
dead,  and  that  the  manors  of  Westmelne  and  Little  Hormade  arc  held 
in  chief,  the  manor  of  Mesden  of  the  heir  of  the  earl  of  Oxford  tenant 
in  chief  a  minor  in  the  king's  wardship  ;  and  the  king  has  taken  the 
said  abbot's  fealty. 

May  20.  To  Robert  Hulle  escheator  in  Devon.    Order,  if  the  same  were  taken 

Westminster,  into  the  king's  hand  after  the  parliament  holden  at  Westminster  in  tho 
quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  last  and  not  before,  to  remove  the  king's  hand 
and  meddle  no  further  with  four  'ferlynges  '  of  land  in  Pyklond  in  the 
manor  of  Otryton,  which  manor  is  held  in  chief,  delivering  to  Thomas 
Hoi  broke  and  Maud  his  wife  any  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  lately  the 
king  ordered  the  escheator  to  certify  in  chancery  the  manner  and 
cause  of  his  taking  into  the  king's  hand  certain  lands  of  the  said  Thomas 
and  Maud  in  Otriton  Monachorum,  and  he  returned  that  without 
the  king's  licence  Maud  Blaunkpayn  now  wife  of  the  said  Thomas  on 
6  November  in  the  41st  year  of  the  reign  acquired  the  premises  for 
her  life  of  Thomas  Sedile  an  alien  late  prior  of  Otryton,  rendering  to 
the  said  prior  and  his  successors  yearly  14s.  4d.,  and  for  that  cause  he 
took  the  premises  into  the  king's  hand,  and  that  the  land  is  worth 
25s.  8d.  a  year  over  and  above  that  rent  as  was  found  by  inquisition 
before  him  taken  ;  and  among  other  pardons,  graces  and  remissions 
to  the  people  made  in  the  said  parliament,  the  king  pardoned  all 
manner  of  gifts,  alienations  and  acquisitions  made  without  his  licence 
of  lands  held  in  chief,  and  any  entries  made  after  the  death  of  ancestors 
without  suing  the  heritage  out  of  the  king's  hands  to  the  beginning  of 
the  50th  year,  except  lands  aliened  to  mortmain  and  those  which 
at  the  time  of  that  parliament  were  seized  into  the  lung's  hand  by 
reason  of  such  alienations  and  entries. 

May  13.  To  John  Hethe  escheator  in  Suffolk.     Order  to  cause  John  deKynges- 

Westminstor.  fold  to  have  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Ixnyng  taken  into  the  king's  hand 
by  the  death  of  Mary  who  was  wife  of  Aymer  de  Valencia  earl  of 
Pembroke,  together  with  the  issues  thereof  taken  ;  as  the  king  has 
learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  thai  the  said  Mary 
at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  her  demesne  as  of  fee, 
but  held  the  said  manor  in  dower  alter  her  husband's  death,  with 
reversion  to  the  said  John  de  Kyngesfold  and  his  heirs  by  virtue  of 
a  grant  to  them  made  by  Gilbert  Talbot,  being  son  and  heir  of  Elizabeth 
Comyn  cousin  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  the  said  earl  to  whom  the  reversion 


"i  i   \l. i:\D.\K  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L37 7.  Mi  mbram   »»  -emit. 

was  assigned  to  lnr  purparty  of  tin-  carl's  Lands  by  a  partition  made 
in  tin-  late  king's  ohanoery,  thai    bj  virtue  ol   thai  granl    the  said 

M.n\  attorned  tenant  to  the  said  .John,  and  that  the  said  manor  is 
held  in  chief  by  knight  service  ;  and  the  king  lias  taken  the  homage 
and  fealty  of  John  de  Kyngesfold.  By  p.s.  [3143!)  J 


Membrane  5. 

June  18.  To  Richard  prince  of  Wales.  Order  without  delay  to  deliver  in  full 
minster,  to  the  bishop  of  Winchester  the  temporalities  of  the  bishopric  of 
Winchester  in  his  keeping  by  the  king's  grant,  meddling  no  further 
therewith  ;  as  lately  the  king  granted  to  the  said  prince  for  his  main- 
tenance 4.000  marks  to  he  taken  yearly  :  ami  although  after  by  letters 
patent  the  king  assigned  to  him  in  part  of  that  sum  the  said  temporali- 
ties, which  for  particular  causes  were  in  the  king's  hand,  extended 
at  1,9882.  1 4  v.  i\\d.  a  year  and  1 !)  quarters  of  oats  not  appraised, and  the 
issues  and  profits  thereof  from  the  time  they  were  first  taken  so  long  as 
the  same  should  remain  in  the  king's  hand,  the  king  of  his  favour  with 
the  assent  of  the  council  has  now  restored  the  same  to  the  said  bishop 
with  the  knights'  fees,  advow  sons  and  all  other  things  thereto  belonging, 
for  that  the  bishop  in  presence  of  the  said  prince,  John  king  of  Castille 
and  Leon  and  duke  of  La ncastre  and  the  prelates  and  other  great  men 
of  the  council  has  taken  upon  him  in  discharge  of  the  king  to  find 
and  perform  certain  charges  in  aid  of  the  estate  and  defence  of  the 
realm,  and  certain  earls  of  the  realm  have  mainperned  before  the 
council  for  his  true  finding  and  performance  thereof,  as  appears  by  a 
memorandum  this  day  enrolled  upon  the  chancery  rolls.     By  K.  and  C. 

Not  to  be  sent  to  the  exchequer  in  the  estreats,  and  that  by  order  of  King 
Richard  II  by  writ  of  privy  seal  which  is  on  the  chancery  files  for  the 
first  year  of  his  reign. 

[Fcedera.] 

Membrane  4. 

June  13.  To  the  abbot  of  St.  Edmunds.  Licence  to  abide  in  person  with 
Westminster,  all  his  household  in  his  manor  of  Elmeswell  co.  Suffolk  within  his 
liberty  of  St.  Edmund,  notwithstanding  any  proclamations  or  ordinances 
that  lords  and  others  shall  make  their  abode  in  person  in  their  manors 
and  other  places  nearest  the  sea  ;  as  the  abbot's  manor  of  Wirlyng- 
worth  without  the  said  liberty  is  nearest  to  the  sea  of  all  his  manors, 
and  the  way  between  that  manor  and  the  sea  is  strait,  miry  and 
exceeding  difficult  for  speedy  passage  ;  and  the  said  manor  of  Elmes- 
well is  but  three  leagues  further  from  the  sea  by  a  way  sufficiently 
open  for  riding  with  a  great  company,  and  at  the  manor  of  Elmewell 
the  abbot  may  suddenly  gather,  if  need  be,  much  greater  number  of 
men  at  arms,  armed  men  and  archers  as  well  of  his  retinue  as  of  the 
men  of  his  abbey  and  town  of  St.  Edmund  and  of  his  tenants  and  others 
dwelling  within  the  said  liberty  than  at  the  manor  of  Wirlyngworth, 
and  more  speedily  come  to  the  sea  in  greater  strength,  with  God's 
help  to  resist  the  king's  enemies  if  they  shall  attack  those  parts,  as 
on  his  behalf  the  king  is  informed.  The  king  has  commanded  the 
arrayers  of  men  at  arms  etc.  in  Suffolk  and  the  sheriff  not  to  trouble 
or  grieve  the  abbot  by  reason  of  his  so  doing.  By  C. 


51  EDWARD  III.  505 


1377.  Membrane  4 — cont. 

June  19.         To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandewich.     Order  to  deliver  by  inden- 

Westminster.  ture  to  Richard  prince  of  Wales  or  his  attorney  4G  tuns  of  wine  which 

are  in  a  certain  cog  arrested  in  that  port.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Membrane  3. 

June  13.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Sandewich.  Order  to  arrest  and  keep 
Westminster,  safe  under  arrest  until  further  order  a  certain  ship  which  has  touched 
at  that  port  and  the  wine  wherewith  the  same  is  laded,  causing  any 
merchants  therein  and  the  master  and  seamen  thereof  to  come  with 
all  possible  speed  before  the  king  and  council,  there  to  answer  touching 
matters  which  shall  then  be  laid  before  them  on  the  king's  behalf, 
and  certifying  the  king  and  council  under  seal  of  the  number  and 
description  of  the  tuns  and  pipes  of  wine  and  other  merchandise 
thereof,  and  the  price  and  value  of  the  same  and  of  the  ship  ;  as  the 
king  has  information  that  the  merchants  or  seamen  of  the  said  ship 
have  with  them  no  charter  or  aught  else  whereby  the  owners  of  the 
said  ship  and  wine  may  be  known,  whether  friends  or  enemies  of  the  king, 
the  marks  of  the  tuns  being  altogether  cut  off,  wherefore  the  lung  would 
make  provision  for  the  safe  keeping  thereof  until  the  ownership 
be  before  him  and  the  council  debated.  By  C. 

June  14.  To  John  Tyndale  escheator  in  Roteland.  Order  to  deliver  to  John 
Westminster,  son  of  Oliver  Daneys  the  third  part  of  the  manor  of  Lyndon,  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  the  death  of  Elizabeth  Daneys,  together  with  the 
issues  thereof  taken,  but  to  remove  the  king's  hand  and  meddle  no 
further  with  the  manors  of  Tykencote  and  Home,  likewise  taken  into 
the  king's  hand  by  her  death,  delivering  up  any  issues  of  these  taken  ; 
as  the  king  has  learned  by  inquisition,  taken  by  the  escheator,  that  the 
said  Elizabeth  at  her  death  held  no  lands  in  that  county  in  chief 
in  her  demesne  as  of  fee,  but  held  in  chief  by  the  service  of  the  third 
part  of  one  knight's  fee  the  third  part  of  the  said  manor  in  dower 
after  the  death  of  Roland  Daneys  knight  her  husband,  also  the  manors 
of  Tykencote  and  Home  by  gift  of  Alexander  de  Skulthorpe  and 
Richard  Daneys  clerk  for  her  life  with  reversion  to  the  said  John  and 
his  heirs,  and  that  these  manors  are  held  of  others  than  the  king ; 
and  on  22  November  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  the  age  of  the  said  John 
being  cousin  and  heir  of  the  said  Roland  was  proved,  and  the  king 
took  his  homage  and  fealty,  and  commanded  livery  to  be  given  him 
of  his  said  uncle's  lands. 

June  13.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold 
Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  by  writ  of  nisi  prius  to  cause  an  inquisi- 
tion which  remains  to  be  taken  between  the  king  and  Roger  de  Holm, 
Richard  Hanneson,  John  de  Crophill  of  Notyngham,  John  Robynct 
and  Hugh  Goldmyth  concerning  divers  trespasses  and  contempts 
at  Notyngham  for  which  they  are  indicted,  to  be  taken  before  one 
of  them  the  said  justices.  By  C. 

June  5.  Order  to  the  sheriff  of  Dorset  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  ins! 

Westminster,  of  John  Bonvyle,  who  is  insufficiently  qualified. 

Membrane  2. 

May  12.         To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order,  for  particular  causes  specially 
Weetminster.  affecting  the  king,  to  cause  William  atte  Hegge,  taken  and  detained 


CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1377.  '/'  m,'r<n"  2    rout. 

in  Neugate  gaol  under  their  custody,  bo  be  broughl  without  delay 
to  the  Tower  oi  London  and  delivered  by  indenture  to  the  constable 
thereof  or  to  his  lieutenant,  there  to  be  imprisoned  in  sale  custody. 
The  king  has  commanded  the  said  constable  and  lieutenanl  to  receive 
him.  ByC. 

To  Alan  de   Buxhull  ((instable  of  the  Tower  oi    London    and    to    his 

lieutenant.  Order  to  receive  oi  the  sheriffs  oi  London  William  atto 
Hegge,  whom  at  the  king's  command  they  shall  deliver  to  the  const  a  bio 

and  lieutenant,  and  to  keep  him  in  sale  custody  in  the  Tower  prison 
until  further  order,  so  that  no  man  save  themselves  shall  have  speech 

with  him.  By  C. 

March  20.         To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  town  of  Suthampton.     Order  to 
Westminster,  arrest  all  those  whom  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  they  may  find  to  have 

committed  the  evildoings  hereinafter  mentioned,  wherever  found 
in  that  bailiwick,  and  to  keep  them  in  prison  in  safe  custody  until 
further  order  of  the  king  or  of  brother  Robert  de  Hales  prior  of  the 
Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  admiral  of  the 
fleet  to  the  westward  ;  as  the  king  is  informed  that  a  certain  tarit, 
[laded  |  with  divers  goods  and  merchandise  of  certain  men  of  Genoa 
[Janna]  of  the  king's  friendship,  was  lately  taken  at  sea  near  the  said 
town  by  certain  subjects  of  the  king,  and  that  the  said  men  of  Genoa 
were  feloniously  robbed  of  their  goods  and  merchandise  whatsoever, 
and  petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  remedy.  By  C. 

May  6.  To  Degory  (Sees  and   Walter  Mille.     Order,  for  particular  causes 

Westminster,  moving  the  king,  to  [*  I  without  determining  any  indict- 

ments that  shall  be  taken  concerning  treasons  in  the  county  of 
Pembroke,  and  to  cause  all  those  who  shall  be  indicted  or  notoriously 
charged  with  such  treasons  to  be  taken  and  imprisoned  until  further 
order,  certifying  their  nanus  in  chancery  from  time  to  time  under 
seal,  with  a  copy  of  this  writ,  although  the  king  lately  by  letters 
patent  appointed  the  said  Degory  and  Walter  justices  to  survey  and 
determine  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  those  parts  all  indict- 
ments before  them  and  John  Howell  of  Wodestoke  and  Thomas  More 
made  in  the  said  county  concerning  treasons,  felonies,  trespasses, 
conspiracies,  oppressions,  extortions,  confederacies  and  false  alliances 
whatsoever  there  committed  by  any  persons.  By  C. 

May  6.  To    William    Bussy   escheator   in   Lincolnshire.     Order   to   deliver 

Westminster,  to  Ralph  de  Percy  knight  and  Philippa  his  wife  the  manor  of  Gaynes- 
burgh  to  her  purparty  of  the  castles,  manors  and  lands  which 
were  held  as  well  by  David  Strabolgi  earl  of  Atholl  tenant  in  chief 
as  by  Elizabeth  who  was  his  wife  in  dower  and  for  life  as  jointly 
enfeoffed  with  him,  and  were  taken  into  the  king's  hand  by  their 
deaths  and  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  Elizabeth  the  earl's  eldest 
daughter  and  Philippa  his  daughter  who  are  his  heirs  ;  as  of  the 
said  castles  etc.  the  king  has  assigned  to  the  said  Philippa,  who  has 
proved  her  age  before  the  escheator,  having  taken  the  said  Ralph's 
fealty,  the  manors  of  Gaynesburgh  co.  Lincoln,  Westlexham  and 
Stykevey  co.  Norffolk,  the  castle  and  manor  of  Mitford  with  the  ward 

*  Words  here  omitted. 


51  EDWARD  HI.  507 


1377.  Membrane  2 — cord. 

of  Framelyngton  castle,  Estaldeworthe,  Bechefeld  and  North  Mille- 
burne,  two  thirds  of  Ponteland,  the  hamlet  of  Litteleland,  the  towns 
of  Calverdon  Valens  and  Merdesfen  members  thereof,  a  rent  of  (W.  to 
be  taken  of  John  de  Mitford  for  the  town  of  Mollesdon,  the  manor  of 
Henteshalgh  with-  the  forest  of  Lowes  and  divers  shielings  {scalingeriis) 
in  the  Hunteland  co.  Northumberland. 

To  John  Hethe  escheator  in  Norffolk.  Order  to  deliver  to  Ralph  de 
Percy  knight  and  Philippa  his  wife,  who  has  proved  her  age  before 
William  Bussy,  the  manors  of  Westlexham  and  Stykevey  which, 
among  other  castles,  manors  and  lands  held  by  David  Strabolgi  earl 
of  Atholl  and  by  Elizabeth  who  was  his  wife,  the  king  has  assigned  to 
the  said  Philippa  to  her  purparty. 

The  like  to  John  Bygot  escheator  in  Northumberland,  concerning 
the  castle  and  manor  of  Mitford  with  the  ward  of  Framelyngton  castle, 
Estaldeworth,  Bechefeld  and  North  Melburne,  two  thirds  of  Ponte- 
land, the  hamlet  of  Litteleland,  the  towns  of  Calverdon  Valens  and 
Merdesfen  members  thereof,  and  a  rent  of  6d.  to  be  taken  of  John  de 
Mitford  for  the  town  of  Mollesdon. 

To  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge  lord  of  the  liberty  of  Tyndale,  or 
to  his  representative  there.  Like  order  concerning  the  manor  of 
Henteshalgh  with  the  forest  of  Lowes  and  divers  shielings  in  the 
Hunteland. 

May  3.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.     Order  to  proceed  further  at  the  suit 

Westminster,  of  Thomas  Coupelond,  Elizabeth  his  wife  and  Thomas  son  of  William 
Baude  knight,  dealing  therein  as  ought  to  be  done  according  to  the 
law  and  custom  of  England,  notwithstanding  that  the  said  Thomas 
and  Thomas  were  not  named  in  the  king's  command  to  the  said 
justices  addressed  ;  as  the  king  remembers  that  lately  he  sent  to  the 
said  justices  under  seal  the  copy  of  a  fine,  levied  in  his  court  before 
the  then  justices  of  the  Bench  in  the  11th  year  of  his  reign,  between 
William  le  Baude  knight  and  Joan  his  wife  plaintiffs  and  John  Baude 
parson  of  Grandeset  and  William  Algod  parson  of  Coryngham  defor- 
ciants concerning  the  manors  of  Horsmcnden,  Rokesle,  Tetyndon  and 
Eccles,  6  acres  of  meadow  in  Acton*,  and  the  advowsons  of  Horsmcnden 
and  Rokesle  churches  and  Totyngton  chapel,  which  the  king  caused 
to  come  before  him  in  chancery,  commanding  the  said  justices  to  view 
the  tenor  of  the  foot  of  the  said  fine  and,  at  the  suit  of  Elizabeth  who 
was  wife  of  Robert  de  Gedyng  knight  and  daughter  and  heir  (fiV  et 
heredis)  of  Joan  who  was  wife  of  William  le  Baude  knight,  to  deal  further 
as  ought  to  be  done  according  to  the  law  and  custom  of  England  ;  and 
now  the  said  Thomas  Coupelond,  who  has  taken  the  said  Elizabeth  to 
wife  it  is  said,  has  informed  the  king  that  by  virtue  of  his  said  com- 
mand the  said  justices  have  deferred  to  proceed  at  the  suit  of  the  said 
Elizabeth,  for  that  the  said  Thomas  and  Thomas,  to  whom  by  virtue  of 
the  said  fine  the  premises  ought  to  remain,  are  not  named  in  that 
command,  wherefore  as  well  the  said  Thomas  Coupelond  and  Elizabeth 
as  the  said  Thomas  son  of  William  have  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ; 
and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  execution  of  the  said  fine  be  had  in  form 
of  law,  as  seemly  is. 

*  Sic.  In  the  fine  Dytton. 


i   \i. i:\h\i:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L377.  Mmmbbanm  i. 

M   \.  2  To  the  sheriff  and  receiver  <>i  the  county  <>t  Pembroke,  tvhioh  Lb  in 

the  king's  hand  b\  the  death  <>f  John  carl  <>f  Pembroke  and  bj  rea  on 
ol  i  1m-  nonage  oi  his  heir.  Order  to  take  "!  Philip  Gyby  security  for 
bis  good  behaviour  and  true  Bervice  therein,  and  to  Buffer  bim  to 

OOOUpy   and  e\cici>e  the  office  of  constable  and  steward  of   Kil.L'arran 

castle,  taking  the  wages  and  fees  thai  were  usual  in  the  Baid  call's 
time,  and  not  being  removed  so  long  as  he  shall  behave  well  and  truly 
Berve  the  king  t  herein  .  as  the  said  Philip  is  deputed  in  the  office  of  the 
oonstableship  and  stewardship  aforesaid,  which  were  of  the  said  earl 
it  is  said  :  and  by  witness  of  many  the  king  has  learned  that  he  is 
a  true  man  and  sufficient  to  keep  the  same,  and  to  do  the  king  true 
rice    therein.  By  C. 

May  20.  To  the  sheritf  of  Oxford,  the  escheator  in  Oxfordshire,  and  the  mayor 

Westminster,  and  bailiffs  of  Oxford.  Order  to  stay  altogether  until  further  order, 
or  until  the  king  shall  take  other  order  touching  the  matter,  the  removal 
of  certain  stakes  and  metes  by  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  order 
of  friars  preachers  Oxford  set  in  the  river  Thames,  the  king's  writ 
hereinafter  recited  notwithstanding  ;  as  lately  the  king  so  far  as  in 
him  lies  gave  and  assigned  by  letters  patent  to  the  said  prior  and 
convent  and  to  their  successors  to  enlarge;  and  protect  their  dwelling 
20  feet  in  breadth  of  the  said  river  or  water  reckoned  from  the  soil  of 
the  said  dwelling  towards  mid  stream  along  the  south  side  of  their 
dwelling  where  the  river  touches  the  said  soil  in  length  towards  the 
south  thereof,  and  by  writ  commanded  the  sheriff,  escheator,  mayor 
and  bailiffs  and  every  of  them  jointly  and  severally  to  deliver  the 
premises  to  the  prior  and  convent,  and  when  so  delivered  to  cause 
those  20  feet  to  be  marked  in  presence  of  true  men  of  the  town  by 
stakes  or  other  sufficient  metes  whereby  the  same  may  be  for  ever 
known  ;  and  now  on  behalf  of  the  prior  and  convent  the  king  has 
learned  that,  by  colour  of  the  king's  writ  ordering  the  sheriff  to  survey 
all  and  singular  the  weirs,  mills,  stanks,  stakes  and  kiddles  raised 
or  set  in  the  said  river  in  Oxfordshire  to  the  hurt  and  nuisance  of  the 
people  and  contrary  to  the  statutes,  and  on  the  king's  behalf  to  order 
all  and  singular  the  lords  of  the  soil  on  either  side  of  the  river  without 
delay  to  remove  and  abate  the  same,  the  sheriff,  escheator,  mayor  and 
bailiffs  are  purposing  before  Monday  next  maliciously  and  unlawfully 
to  remove  and  abate  the  stakes  and  metes  aforesaid  set  in  the  river 
by  vitrue  of  the  king's  letters  patent  and  command  aforesaid,  although 
they  are  there  set  to  enlarge  and  protect  the  said  manse  and  not  to 
hinder  the  passage  of  ships,  boats  and  shouts  ;  and  the  king  is  informed 
that  the  passage  thereof  is  nowise  hindered  by  them. 

By  K.  on  information  of  Nicholas  de  Carreu. 

June  1.  To   Richard   de   Northwode   and   Richard   de   Neuton.     Order   to 

Westminster,  deliver  by  indenture  to  William  Waryn  and  Adam  Wandesford  the 
office  of  levying,  collecting  and  receiving  to  the  king's  use  the  customs 
and  pa}rments  whatsoever  due  to  the  king  upon  all  merchandise  and 
goods  in  the  port  of  St.  Botolph  and  in  all  places  along  the  sea  coast 
from  thence  northward  to  Grymesby  and  southward  to  Maydenhouse, 
the  customs  upon  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  excepted,  and  all  things 
to  that  office  pertaining  which  are  in  the  keeping  of  the  said  Richard 
and  Richard,  and  to  deliver  by  indenture  to  the  said  William  and 
Adam  all  moneys  by  them  received  of  the  said  customs  etc.  since 


51  EDWARD  III.  509 


1377.  Membrane  1 — cont. 

21  June  in  the  50th  }7ear  of  the  reign,  although  on  that  date  the  king 
by  letters  patent  appointed  the  said  Richard  and  Richard  to  levy, 
collect  and  receive  the  same  as  aforesaid  ;  as  by  other  letters  patent 
the  king  has  now  appointed  the  said  William  and  Adam  for  a  set 
sum  to  be  by  them  rendered  yearly  to  him  so  to  do  in  the  port  of 
St.  Botolph,  in  singular  the  ports  and  places  from  thence  along  the 
sea  coast  to  Grymesby  on  the  one  side  and  to  Blakenaye  on  the  other, 
and  at  those  places,  from  19  May  in  the  50th  year  to  Christmas  following 
and  thenceforward  for  one  year.  It  is  the  Icing's  will  that  the  said 
Richard  and  Richard  be  discharged  toward  him  from  19  May  aforesaid. 

To  Geoffrey  Tolbothe  and  John  Dockyng.  Like  order,  although  on 
21  June  in  the  50th  year  of  his  reign  the  king  by  letters  patent  appointed 
them  collectors  and  receivers  of  customs  etc.  in  the  port  of  Lenne,  the 
customs  upon  wool,  hides  and  woolfells  excepted. 

June  1.  To  John  Boksak  merchant  of    Luca.       Licence    to  receive  from 

Westminster.  John  Philipot  citizen  and  merchant  of  London  1201.  of  English  money, 

and  to  make   letters  of   exchange    addressed  to  his  fellows  dwelling 

in  foreign  parts  for  that  sum  payable  at  Brugges  to  the  said  John 

[Phi li pot]  or  his  attorney. 

Membrane  24<1. 

Indenture  made  on  Wednesday  after  St.  Lucy  50  Edward  III. 
between  John  son  of  Sir  John  Knyvet  knight  and  Joan  (Johannam) 
his  wife  of  the  one  part  and  Dame  Katherine  who  was  wife  of  Sir  John 
Buttourt  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  that  whereas  the  said  Katherine 
has  sued  for  dower  of  the  manor  of  Mendlesham  against  the  said  John 
and  the  said  Joan  daughter  and  heir  of  the  said  John  Buttourt,  it 
is  agreed  amicably  between  them  that  the  said  John  and  Joan  have 
assigned  and  delivered  to  her  dower  thereof  as  follows,  namely  the 
chamber  called  '  Chapel  chaumbre,'  with  the  chapel  annexed  to  be 
held  in  common  with  them,  one  chamber  of  the  porter's  house  within 
the  moat  on  the  west  side  above  and  below,  another  whole  house 
called  the  '  Eldhalle  '  with  free  ingress  and  egress  as  well  by  the  gnat 
gate  within  the  moat  and  without  as  by  the  postern  to  the  parish 
chu.ch  ;  without  the  moat  the  grange  called  the  '  wheteberne  '  on 
the  north  side  except  one  small  house  attached  called  the  '  chafhous,' 
with  free  ingress  and  egress,  a  house  called  '  stotl ystable  '  on  the 
west  side  of  the  manor  except  the  wain  house  and  small  stable  alt  ached, 
a  third  part  of  two  sheepcotes  on  the  north  side  and  the  west,  a  third 
part  of  two  mills  to  be  taken  in  common,  a  third  part  of  the  garden 
on  the  west  side  as  divided  by  bounds,  and  the  whole  of  another 
garden  extending  from  the  dovecot  northward  in  satisfaction  of  all 
her  dower  of  the  garden  wheresoever  without  the  manor  gates  ;  a  third 
part  of  the  profit  of  the  market  and  fair  {fori  et  nundinarum),  the  court 
and  leet  ;  a  third  part  of  ' Holmeref eld '  on  the  north  side  reckoned 
for  27  acres  3  roods  of  arable  land,  a  third  part  of  '  Whasshwellefeld  ' 
for  17  acres,  a  third  part  of  '  Calwecrofl  '  for  11!  acres,  a  third  part 
of  '  Chapellond  'for  1\  acres,  a  third  pari  of  '  Branteshelle  '  for  4  acres, 
a  third  part  of  '  Ktonweye  '  for  2  acres  1  rood,  a  third  part  of  '  Dunnes- 
gate  '  for  1  rood,  a  third  part  of  '  Langelond  '  for  17  acres  I  rood, 
a  third  part  of  '  Southertonf eld  '  for  25  acres  1  rood,  a  third  part   of 


510  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


l.">77.  Ifemfcrone  24d—tont. 

land  Bometime  <>f  William  de  Southerton  for  5  aoree  a  third  part  of 
land  Bometime  of  William  <lr  Balshangela  for  <>!  aoree,  a  third  part 
of  '  Southwodfeld  '  foi  21  aores,  a  third  part  of  '  Mfellefeld  '  of  the  lands 
oi  Robert  de  Wintonea  reckoned  for  12  acres  :{  roods  as  everywhere 

divided  by  metes  and  bounds;  the  meadow  called  '  Lad\  sineduwe  ' 
reckoned  tor  1  acres  of  meadow.  1  acre  of  meadow  in  '  Kradincduwe,' 
the  acre  of  meadov  called  '  Warneresakre  '  aa  the  third  part  of  all 

the  meadow  of  the  manor  ;  of  pasture  one  half  acre  and  one  half  rood 
in  the  '  bordurya  aboul  the  meadows.  !t  acres  3  roods  of  '  Branteshel  ' 
and  '  Wolmerisgrene,' a  third  part  of  'Stubbyngge  'and  '  Longelaunde  ' 
containing  Hi  acres  of  pasture  within  an  enclosure,  the  profit  to  bo 
taken  in  common,  one  hound  at  '  Sout hw ode.'  one  moiety  of  the 
way  to  Wykham  mill,  and  I  acre  of  pasture  extending  from  the  way 
from  Robert  de  Wintonea's  gate  to  Wykham  ditch  ;  18  acres  of  wood 
in  ' Stokerwode,'  lo.l  acres  of  wood  in  'Suthwode,'  and  3  acres  of  wood 
in  ' Hevenewode ' ;  a  third  part  of  all  the  ancient  rent  of  freemen  as  of 
*  molmen  '  and  neifs  appurtenant  to  the  said  manor  amounting  to 
1  1/.  1  \<l.  to  betaken  of  the  freeholders  of  Mendlesham  following,  namely 
of  Roger  Wildebef,  Thomas  atte  Wente,  John  Dunch,  Sir  Robert  de 
Munteney.  William  de  Neweton,  Adam  Sewale.  -John  Skippelond,  Hugh 
de  Cotton.  Henry  Kynth'.  Ralph  Motesharp.  Mancer  Dunch,  Robert 
Dunkon.  John  Colneshoo,  Edmund  Soutere,  Alice  Foot,  the  prior  of  Ales- 
borne,  John  de  Waltham,  Rose  Skippelond,  John  Neweman,  John  de 
Haddeleye.  I  Leynold  Goodwyne.  Robert  Hadgor,  Robert  Dextere,  Mancer 
son  of  Robert  in  Wykham.  Richard  Haddeleye,  Adam  Gronger,  Hubert 
Broun.  John  Porter.  John  Copyn,  Rose  Ferour,  Harungard  de  Hert, 
John  Brodoke  and  John  Bysshop  ;  also  70s.  5^d.  of  the  new  rent  and 
farm  of  land  thereof  to  be  taken  of  Roger  Smyth,  John  Melkelond, 
John  Ode.  Geoffrey  Chapman,  John  Goodewyne,  John  Dunch,  John 
Motte,  Thomas  Neel  and  Simon  Palmere  ;  also  13s.  8d.  to  be  taken 
of  freeholders  in  the  market,  namely  of  Seman  Linte,  John  Skolkyng, 
William  Lorddye,  William  de  Westwode,  Robert  Zymme,  Maud  Doun, 
William  Doun.  John  Cartere,  John  Badwe,  Nicholas  Moumford,  Robert 
Zymme  and  Geoffrey  Goodwyn  ;  also  the  works  and  customs  of 
customary  tenants  of  Mendlesham,  namely  of  William  Gcnour,  John 
son  of  Hugh  Rotelc,  Robert  Lyrman,  Nicholas  Lyorman,  William 
Aldrich,  Robert  Miggel,  John  Zymme,  Nicholas  son  of  Stephen,  Ellis 
Miggel,  John  Miggel,  Ralph  Gurnay,  Hugh  Tiel,  William  Maukyng, 
Hugh  le  Fraunceys,  Robert  Coyman,  Ralph  Krisp}rnk,  Avice  and 
Mabel  daughters  of  Ellis  Miggel,  Nicholas  Peyntour,  Hugh  le  Cooke, 
Bartholomew  Smithson  ((il  fabri),  Hugh  le  Parkere,  John  Cooke  and 
the  heir  of  William  Sired  ;  also  7s.  2d.  of  small  holdings  (de  minut' 
U  mir')  in  villenage,  namely  of  William  Fisshere,  William  le  Taillour, 
Bartholomew  Goodwyn,  Richard  Linte,  Ralph  Geyncrowe,  William 
Pollard,  Richard  Maliard  and  Thomas  Thechere  ;  also  the  works  of 
customary  tenants  of  Wykham,  namely  of  Reynold  Mercator,  Thomas 
Mous,  Alan  Roue,  John  le  White,  Thomas  del  Wente,  Bartholomew 
Onyot,  Roger  On}ot,  Maud  Brodhoke,  Richard  Hilde,  Benedict  Nelle, 
Thomas  Gardyner,  Ralph  Pouche,  William  Saye,  Nicholas  Coue,  John 
Bantyngge,  Alexander  Gunnemere  and  Hugh  Gunnemere  ;  and  the 
said  Katherine  hereby  to  farm  lets  during  her  life  to  the  said  John  and 
Joan  his  wife  her  daughter  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  to  her 
assigned  as  aforesaid,  rendering  to  her  40  marks  yearly  at  Christmas, 
Easter,  Midsummer  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions,  and  doing  for 


51  EDWARD  III. 


511 


1377.  Membrane  24d — cont. 

her  the  services  clue  and  accustomed  to  the  chief  lords  of  the  fee,  power 
being  reserved  to  the  said  Katharine  to  distrain  for  arrears,  and  to 
enter  and  hold  again  the  premises  during  her  life  if  the  rent  be  six 
weeks  in  arrear.  Witnesses :  William  Wyngefeld  knight,  William 
Berard,  William  de  Newton,  John  de  Waltham,  Hugh  Houel,  Thomas 
Wynchestre,  John  de  Lakynghithc,  Edmund  his  son.  Dated  Mendle- 
sham,  as  above 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  John  son  of  John   Kn}*vet 
knight,  3  February  this  year. 


Feb.  5.  John   Burgh   knight  the  elder  to  Hugh  de  Aunesleve,  William   de 

Westminster.  Lughtburgh,  John  de  Wymondeswold  chaplain  and  William  de 
Derham.  Recognisance  for  1,000/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Cambridgeshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  William  de  Lughtburgh. 

Jan.  28.  To  Edmund  de  Arundell.    Order,  upon  his  allegiance  and  under  pain 

Havering,  of  forfeiture,  for  particular  causes  to  leave  all  else  and,  ceasing  every 
excuse,  to  be  in  person  before  the  king  and  council  at  Westminster  on 
1G  February  next,  in  order  to  have  speech  with  the  council  and  give 
information  touching  certain  matters  that  shall  then  and  there  be  laid 
before  him  on  the  king's  behalf,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  as  by 
advice  of  the  council  shall  be  appointed.  By  K.  and  C. 

[Rep.  on  Dignity  of  a  Peer,  iv.  p.  672  ;  with  erroneous  reference  to 
m.  2M.\ 

Feb.  G.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.     Order  to  stay  altogether  the  execution 

Westminster,  of  the  king's  command  to  cause  a  coroner  to  be  elected  instead  of 
Thomas  Fasakerle  ;  as  learning  that  the  said  Thomas  was  insufficiently 
qualified,  on  3  February  last  the  king  ordered  a  coroner  to  be  elected 
in  his  stead,  but  it  is  witnessed  in  chancery  by  credible  persons  that 
he  is  sufficiently  qualified,  and  a  fit  person  to  exercise  that  office. 

Writing  of  John  Besevylle,  son  and  heir  of  John  Besevylle  of  Picheles- 
thorn,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Henry  Berkhamstede,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  reversions,  woods,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  wards,  marriages,  heriots,  reliefs,  suits  of  court,  rents  and 
services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  in  Pichelesthorn,  Ivyngho  and 
Aldebur}-  which  descended  by  inheritance  to  him  the  said  John  the  son 
after  the  death  of  Agnes  Besevylle  his  mother.  Witnesses  :  William 
Foukes,  Robert  Portereve,  Roger  Loryng,  Thomas  Gibbes,  Richard 
Euelot,  William  Creke,  John  Peke.  Dated  Pychelesthorn,  the  feast 
of  the  Conception  50  Edward  J 1 1. 

Declaration  by  the  witnesses,  at  the  said  Henry's  request,  that  John 
Beseville  the  son  is  at  this  date  of  lull  age,  uamely  22  years  and 
upwards,  of  sound   mind   and  out  of  prison. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Thame,  I  February  this  year 
before  the  abbot  of  Thame,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimus 
pott  ^Intern  which  is  on  the  tiles  of  chancery  for  this  year. 

Jan.  30.        To  Roger  de  Kirketon,  John    Buttetourt,  Baldwin    Freville,  Robert 

Westminster.  Burgilloun  and  William  l'urfiev.  Order,  for  (.articular  causes  affecting 
the  king's  right  it  is  said  laid  before  the  king  and  council,  to  stay  unt  il 
the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  any  process  touching  their  commission 


519  <'\l.K\l>\i:   OF  CLOSE   ROLLS. 


1.177.  MtmbtatU  24d — cont. 

that  meanwhile  the  king  may  hear  the  parties,  if  they  will  sue  with  the 
council,  and  being  better  informed  touohing  his  right  may  with  the 
advioe  of  the  council  take  further  order  aooording  t<»  law  and  reason  ; 
as  on  li»  Deeember  last  the  king  by  lettera  patent   appointed  them, 

four,  three  and  two  of  them  of  whom  the  said  Roger  should  be  one, 
l>y  true  men  of  Warwickshire  to  make  imposition  concerning  certain 
alleged  trespasses  committed  by  Richard  de  Tyaho  clerk  and  certain 
others  named  against  the  prior  of  Maxstoke,  and  to  hear  and  determine 

the  same. 

Jan.  28.  William  Belle  is  Bent  to  the  master  of  the  house  of  the  Holy  Spirit 

Havering.     Writvll,  to  have  for  life  such  maintenance  therein  as  William  de  Petoun 

deceased  had  in  his  life  time  at  the  command  of  the  king  or  of  his 

forefathers.  By  p.s.  [31289]. 

Membrane  23d. 

Writing  of  John  de  Betoyne,  brother  of  Richard  son  of  John  de 
Betoyne,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Thomas  de  Clifton, 
William  Xorwych.  William  Blakwelle,  Geoffrey  de  Osmeston,  Edmund 
Walsyngham.  William  de  Thame  citizen  and  fishmonger  of  London 
and  Juliana  his  wife  daughter  of  Thomas  son  of  Richard  son  of  William 
de  Betoyne.  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Juliana,  of  all  right 
in  all  lands,  reversions,  rents  and  services  in  the  city  of  London  being 
in  the  seisin  of  the  said  Thomas,  William,  William,  Geoffrey,  Edmund 
William  and  Juliana  which  were  sometime  of  Richard  son  of  William 
Betoyne,  and  in  all  other  lands  etc.  which  they  have  in  the  said  city 
in  demesne  or  in  reversion.  Witnesses  :  William  Strokelady,  Robert 
Parys,  John  Vautort,  John  Shalyngforde,  William  Boyvile  clerk. 
Dated  London,  26  January  51  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  de  Betoyne,  brother  of  Richard  son  of  John  de 
Betoyne,  being  a  general  release  to  William  de  Thame  citizen  and 
fishmonger  of  London  and  Juliana  his  wife  of  all  actions  and  demands. 
Dated  (as  the  last). 

Writing  of  John  de  Betoyne,  brother  of  Richard  son  of  John  de 
Betoyne,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de 
Louthe  '  joignour  '  citizen  of  London  and  Joan  his  wife,  and  to  the  heirs 
and  assigns  of  the  said  Robert,  of  all  the  tenement  in  their  seisin  being 
in  '  Seint  Sytheslane  '  in  the  parish  of  St.  Antonine  London,  Adam 
Stable  being  then  mayor  of  London,  John  Northampton  and  Robert 
Launde  sheriffs.  Witnesses  :  Richard  Northbury,  Peter  Mildenhale, 
John  Shalyngforde,  John  Penwaryn,  William  Boyvile  clerk.  Dated 
London,  23  January  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  wTitings  in  the 
chancery  at  Westminster,  28  January  this  year. 

Jan.  31.         Robert  Jolif  of  Shirburne  to  John  Bays.     Recognisance  for  100Z.,  to 
Westminster,  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Dorset. 

Writing  of  Walter  Clopton,  William  Thornyng,  John  de  Merston  and 
Hilde brand  Barre,  granting  that  whereas  William  son  of  Warin  de 
Skargill  knight  (militis)  has  granted  to  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns 


51  EDWARD  III.  513 


1377.  Membrane  23d — cont. 

for  ever,  a  yearly  rent  of  20  marks  to  be  taken  of  the  manor  of 
Sadelworthfrith  and  all  the  lands  in  the  town  of  Qwyk,  which  rent 
he  had  by  inheritance  after  the  death  of  William  de  Skargil  knight 
his  grandfather,  and  whereas  Warin  de  Skargil  knight  formerly  granted 
the  same  with  bond  for  warranty  thereof  to  his  son  the  said  William 
the  grandfather,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  as  contained  in  a  writing  of 
Warin  the  great-grandfather  which  with  his  own  writing  the  said 
William  has  delivered  to  them,  neither  the  said  William  nor  his  heirs 
shall  be  bound  to  warranty  of  the  said  rent  though  the  said  Walter 
and  the  others  be  impleaded  concerning  the  same,  and  though  it  be 
recovered  against  them,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  or  be  otherwise  with- 
drawn ,  but  the  said  Walter  and  the  others  shall  be  barred  from  action 
of  warranty  by  writ  of  warranty  of  charter  or  of  covenant  to  recover 
damages  or  bring  any  grievance  against  the  said  William  or  his  heirs, 
notwithstanding  any  gift  or  warranty  in  either  of  the  said  writings. 
Witnesses  :  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  the  uncle,  Robert  Neville  of 
Hornby,  Thomas  Metham  knights,  John  Dronsfeld,  John  Woderoue. 
Dated  London,  Friday  before  the  Purification  51  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  31  January. 

Writing  of  John  Lovel  lord  of  Tychemersh,  giving  with  warranty 
to  William  de  Skargill,  son  of  Warin  de  Skargill  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  10?.  to  be  taken  at  Martinmas  and  Whitsuntide 
by  even  portions  of  his  manor  of  Tychemersh  co.  Norhampton  and 
all  his  lands  there,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears.  Witnesses  :  Sir 
Robert  de  Swylyngton  the  uncle,  Sir  Thomas  de  Metham,  Sir  John  de 
Burgh  knights,  Hugh  de  Womb  well,  John  Woderoue.  Dated  Tyche- 
mersh, Saturday  the  feast  of  All  Saints  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  31  January  this  year. 

Feb.  2.  Gilbert  Wace  of  Oxfordshire  to  Nicholas  de  Carreu.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  100/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Oxfordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  John  de  Sancto  Neoto  clerk,  being  a  bond  to  John  Giffard 
of  Cotherstok  clerk  in  100  marks  payable  at  the  Annunciation  next. 
Dated  Holburne,  7  February  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  February. 

Writing  of  Walter  de  Clyfton  abbot  of  Wardon  co.  Bedford,  being 
a  bond  to  John  Giffard  of  Cotherstok  clerk  of  Northamtonshire  in 
100  marks  received  as  a  loan  to  the  profit  of  the  monastery,  payable 
at  the  Annunciation  next.  Dated  Holbourne  in  the  suburb  of  London, 
7  February  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  February. 

Charter  of  Robert  de  Marny  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  Robert 
de  Burton  parson  of  South wokyndon  and  John  Colyn  chaplain,  their 
heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Kyngcseve  co.  Bukingnam.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  Reynold  Malyns,  Sir  Gilbert  Wace  knights,  William  Upton,  John 
Rolves,  John  Touy,  John  Fayrmay,  Thomas  Parage.  Dated 
Kyngeseye,  7  January  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  February  this  year. 

Wt.  11824.  °»  33 


;,u  I  \u:\l>.\i;  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L377.  Membrane  23d — coni. 

Writing  indented  of  Thomaa  Sakeville  lord  of  1  ho  manor  of  Marlesford 
co.  Suffolk,  acknowledging  thai  he  baa  received  of  Ralph  de  Bokkyng, 

hi<  tenant  of  the  manor  of  Qelmengham,  1004.  ill  name  of  relief  after 
the  decease  oi  John  <le  Bokkyng  son  of  William  de  Bockyngg  for  the 
manor  of  Belmengham  which  the  said  Ralph  holds  of  him  in  socage 
by  the  senile  oi  100*.  a  year  payable  at  the  manor  of  Marlcsford. 
Witnesses:  Edmund  Stonore,  Geoffrey  do  Hunden,  Thomas  Doily, 
Thomas  atte  Oke  of  Bergham,  John  Olney,  Robert  Hotoft,  William 
Rukeld.  Dated  Weetminster,  Saturday  after  the  Purification 
51  Edward  111.     French. 

Mi  morandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  February. 

Writing  of  Thomas  son  and  heir  of  Sir  Richard  dc  Bideford  knight 
of  full  age,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Sir  Richard  de  Raveneshere  clerk, 
Sir  Thomas  atte  Strete,  Sir  Robert  Teye  knight,  John  Batayle,  Thomas 
Batayle,  John  Roys  of  Tolleshunte,  Geoffrey  Hunden,  John  Quenyld, 
William  Giffard,  John  Martel,  Walter  Arderne,  Henry  Sparke  and 
Robert  atte  Waterc  of  all  lands  which  they  have  in  the  towns  of 
Leghes,  Felstede  and  Blakenottele.  Wit n esses  :  Sir  Thomas  Morewell 
knight,  Thomas  Albon,  John  Redeswell,  John  Bradeleyhe,  John 
Bunsemere.  Dated  Stokkenepelham,  Sunday  the  feast  of  St.  Thomas 
the  Apostle  50  Edward  HI. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  February  this  year. 

Membrane  22d. 

Writing  of  John  Richemond,  son  of  Godfrey  Richemond  of  Thaxstede 
co.  Essex,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell 
and  Surrey,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services 
in  the  town  of  Little  Canefeld  co.  Essex  held  by  the  said  earl  and 
some  time  of  John  de  Lacheleye  and  Isabel  his  wife.  Witnesses  ; 
Thomas  Rocheford  of  Ledenrothyng,  John  Caunbrigge  of  Donmowe, 
John  Yerdelee,  John  Brenge,  John  Kent  of  Thaxstede.  Dated 
London,  1  February  51  Edward  III.     French. 

Indenture  made  at  London  2  February  51  Edward  III,  between 
Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey  and  John  Richemond  son  of 
Godfrey  Richemond  of  Thaxstede  co.  Essex,  witnessing  a  grant  to  the 
earl,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  a  yearly  rent  of  201.  to  be  taken  at  Easter 
and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  all  the  said  John's  lands  in  the 
town  of  Thaxstede  or  elsewhere  in  Essex  with  power  to  distrain  for 
arrears,  and  he  has  put  the  earl  in  seisin  by  payment  of  4d.  ;  and 
covenant  for  defeasance  of  the  said  rent,  upon  condition  that  the  earl, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  peaceably  hold  all  the  lands  in  Little  Canefeld 
which  were  sometime  of  John  de  Lacheleye  and  Isabel  his  wife  without 
impeachment  or  disturbance  in  time  to  come  by  John  Richemond,  his 
heirs  or  any  other  in  their  name  in  any  court  of  the  king  or  other  lord 
in  respect  thereof  or  any  of  parcel  of  the  -same.  Dated  London,  as 
above.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writing  and 
indenture  by  John  Richemond,  6  February. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Robert  de  Teye,  Richard  de  Ravensere 
clerk,     Thomas     Strete     clerk,     John     Bataille,     Thomas     Bataille, 


5!  EDWARD  [II  515 


1377.  Membrane  22d — conl. 

John  de  Boys,  Geoffrey  Hundcn ,  William  Gyffard,  Walter  Arderne,  John 
Martell,  John  Quynyld,  Henry  Spark  and  Robert  atte  Watere,  feoffees 
of  the  manor  called  Coppedehalle  oo.  Essex  and  the  advowson  of  the 
one  part,  and  Sir  William  de  Septvance  of  the  other  part,  being  a 
defeasance  by  the  first  parties,  who  were  enfeoffed  by  Sir  Walter  atte 
Lee,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  atte  Lee  knight  and  Joan  his  wife,  of  the 
warranty  in  a  release  of  the  said  manor  and  advowson  made  by 
Sir  William  to  Sir  John  atte  Lee  and  Joan  and  to  the  said  John's 
heirs,  dated  Haveryng  atte  Boure,  4  September  41  Edward  III,  in 
case  the  said  feoffees  or  any  of  them,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  shall  be 
impleaded  by  any  of  the  heirs  of  Sir  John  atte  Lee  and  Joan  by  reason 
of  any  gift  or  entail  to  them  made  ;  provided  always  that  if  they  or 
any  tenant  of  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof  shall  be  impleaded  by  any 
other  than  the  heirs  of  Sir  John  and  Joan,  it  shall  be  lawful  fo-  them 
to  deraign  warrant}^  according  to  the  said  release,  this  indenture 
notwithstanding.  Dated  2  December  50  Edward  III.  French. 
[No  acknowledgment  recorded.] 

Writing  of  Giles  de  Seint  Johan  knight  lord  of  Plumpton,  son  and 
heir  of  Isabel  sometime  wife  of  Richard  de  Rothyngge  citizen  and 
vintner  of  London,  giving  to  Richard  de  Preston  citizen  and  corder  of 
London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  to  be  taken  of  his 
manor  of  Plomton  one  moiety  at  Easter  the  other  at  Michaelmas,  and  if 
the  rent  be  in  arrear  at  any  term  in  whole  or  in  part,  power  at  their 
will  to  enter,  hold  and  enjoy  the  said  manor  and  all  goods  and  chattels 
therein  found  until  contented  of  the  same  with  damages  and  costs  ; 
and  he  has  put  the  said  Richard  in  possession  of  the  said  rent  by  pay- 
ment of  ±0d.     Dated  Sunday  the  eve  of  the  Purification  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  February. 

Indenture  made  between  Giles  de  Seint  John  knight  lord  of  Plumpton, 
son  and  heir  of  Isabel  sometime  wife  of  Richard  de  Rothyngge  citizen 
and  vintner  of  London,  and  Richard  de  Preston  citizen  and  corder  of 
London,  being  a  defeasance  of  a  yearty  rent  of  10/.  to  be  taken  of  the 
manor  of  Plumton  granted  to  the  said  Richard  by  the  said  Giles,  upon 
condition  that  the  said  Richard,  his  heirs  and  other  the  tenants  thereof 
shall  peaceably  hold  and  enjoy,  without  being  thrust  out  by  recovery 
by  any  older  title  or  right,  all  the  tenements  which  the  said  Isabel  had 
in  the  parish  of  St.  Dunstan  by  the  Tower  of  London  with  a  quay 
called  '  Pesokes  wharf,'  and  by  deed  gave  the  same  to  the  said  Richard 
for  life,  and  after  made  a  quitclaim  thereof  to  him  ;  and  the  said  Giles 
likewise  after  made  a  quitclaim  of  the  said  tenements,  shops,  solars 
and  cellars  to  the  said  Richard  and  his  heirs.  Dated  Tuesday  the 
morrow  of  the  Purification  51  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  7  February. 


1376. 


Writing  of  Andrew  Bomond  clerk  nephew  of   Hugh  de  Bernham, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Walter  de  Berneye,  Richard  de 

EeylesdOD   and  .John   de    lleylesdon   his  son.  their  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  whole  manor  <>l"  lleylesdon  with  the  advowson  and  all  members, 

lordships,   liberties,  commodities  lights  and   appurtenances  thereof. 
Witnesses:    William    Worstede.  Simon    Dalmaigne,  John    Fayrohild 

pi     Norwich,    Martin    de    Ta\  eiham.    Richard    Wavtr.    Robert     Wayte. 


510  CALKNDAi:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L376.  Membrane  '2'2<l —  cotii. 

Riohard   Vyel  of  Boylesdon.     Da  tod    Heyleedon,  Thursday  tho  feast 
ol  St.  Philip  and  St.  James  45  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  town  of  St.  Edmunds, 
Wednesday  after  the  Conception  ">i>  Bdward  III.  before  John 
CavendyBsn,  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  <>f  dedirmu  jtotestatem  which  is 

OD  the  tiles  of  ehaneery  for  this  year. 

1377.  Membrane  2id. 

Writing  of  Richard  Bereford  of  Norwich  and  Katherine  his  wife, 
being  a  bond  to  Richard  Blake  citizen  of  London  and  Nicholas  Horseth 
of  Wygynhale  oo.  Xorffolk  in  1,000  marks  payable  at  London  in  the 
dwelling  house  of  Simon  de  Castre  clerk  the  first  Sunday  in  Lent  next. 
Dated  London,  Saturday  before  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul 
50  Bdward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
26  January  this  year. 

Writing  of  Richard  Bereford  of  Norwich  and  Katherine  his  wife, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Simon  de  Castre  clerk  and  Nicholas 
de  Massyngham,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Fyntham  co. 
Xorffolk  called  Talboteshalle  with  the  appurtenances,  namely  in 
Fyntham,  Stradeset,  Watlyngton,  Wallyngton,  Roungetounholme 
and  Westderham,  all  lands,  rents  and  services  to  the  said  manor 
belonging,  and  the  reversion  of  lands  formerly  held  by  John  Talbot 
and  Katherine  his  wife  for  their  lives  by  grant  of  Peter  Talbot  father 
of  Adam  Talbot.  Dated  Fyntham,  Wednesday  before  the  Purification 
in  the  beginning  of  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  27  January. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  John  de  Betoyne  citizen  and  painter  (pictor)  of 
London,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de  Thame  citizen 
and  mercer  of  London  and  Juliana  daughter  of  Thomas  de  Betoyne 
sometime  citizen  of  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents 
etc.  in  London  which  ought  to  fall  to  him  after  the  death  of  Thomas 
father  of  the  said  Juliana  ;  Adam  Fraunceys  being  then  mayor  of 
London.  John  Pecche  and  John  Stodeye  sheriffs.  Witnesses  :  Richard 
de  Berkyng  citizen  and  draper,  John  de  Kylyngworth  '  draper,' 
William  Duk  '  draper,'  William  de  Skelton  '  armurer.'  William  Spark 
'  armurer,'  William  Essex  mercer,  Richard  de  Donekastre  clerk. 
Dated  London ,  Wednesday  after  St.  Nicholas  the  Bishop  26  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  January  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  son  of  Thomas  de  Betoyne  citizen  and  goldsmith  of 
London,  and  John  son  of  John  de  Betoyne  citizen  and  painter  (pictor)  of 
London,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de  Thame  citizen 
and  mercer  of  London  and  Juliana  daughter  of  Thomas  de  Betoyne 
late  citizen  of  London,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands,  rents  etc. 
in  London  which  ought  to  fall  to  them  the  said  John  and  John 
after  the  death  of  Thomas  father  of  the  said  Juliana.  Witnesses  : 
Richard  de  Burkyng,  John  de  Kylyngworth  '  draper,'  William  de 
Skylton    '  armener,'   William  Spark   '  armener,'   Richard  atte  Legee 


51  EDWARD  III.  517 


1377.  Membrane  2ld — con/, 

*  armener.'     Dated  London,  Monday  alter   St.  Nicholas  the  Bishop 
26  Edward  III. 

Memorandum   of  acknowledgment  by  the  eaid  John  son  of  John, 
28  January  this  year. 

Jan.  27.  William   Deuyas   is   sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Bruerne,  to 

Havering      have  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  Richard  Riche  deceased 
had  at  the  command  of  the  king  or  his  forefathers.      By  p.s.  [31288.] 


manor. 


Jan.  29.         Roger  de  Meres  of  Kirketon  knight  and  John  his  son    the    elder 
Westminster,  to  Thomas  de  Haselden  of  Wakefeld.     Joint  and  several  recognisance 
for  400/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels 
in  Lincolnshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Jan.  27.         To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.     Order  to  give  notice   to  Mary  who 
Westminster,  was  wife  of  Adam  de  Carlell  citizen  and  draper  of  London,  John  de 
Appelby  dean  of  St.  Paul's  church  London,  John   de    Saxton   clerk 
and  William  Carlell,  the  said  Adam's  executors,   to  be   in   chancery 
in  the  octaves  of  the  Purification  next  in  order  to  shew  cause  where- 
fore   John    Avenell    of    Gamelegeye    ought    not    to   be   quit   toward 
them  of  the  debt  hereinafter  mentioned,  and  wherefore  a   statute 
merchant    by   him    made   ought   not    to    be    annulled,    and    further 
to  do  and  receive   what  the  court   shall  determine  ;   and  order  by 
mainprise  of  John  Colville  knight,  Baldwin  Seint  George  knight  and 
John  de  Ellerton  of  Cambridgeshire  and  Peter  le  Strange  knight  of 
Norffolk  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ    against  the  said 
defendant  as  well  in  regard  to  taking  his  body  as  to  extending  his 
lands  and  appraising  his  chattels,  bringing  there  the  names  of  those 
by  whom  such  not'ee  is  given  and  this  writ ;   as  the  lung  has  learned 
by  complaint  of  the  defendant  that  on  19  July  in  the  43rd    }rear  of 
the   reign    before   William  de   Walleworth    mayor   of   the  staple   of 
Westminster  deputed  to  receive  recognisances  of  debts  therein  he 
made  a  recognisance  to  the  said  Adam  for  102Z.  payable  at  Michaelmas 
then  next,  that  by  indenture  between  them  made  the  said  Adam 
after  made  a  defeasance  of  the  said  statute  upon  certain  conditions 
therein  specified,  as  may  appear  by  one  part  of  the  indenture  in  the 
defendant's  hands,  produced  in  chancery,  and  that  although  he  has 
truly  kept   all  and  singular  the  said  conditions,  the  said  executors 
are  unlawfully  suing  execution  of  the  said  statute  by  writ  founded  upon 
a  certificate  thereof,  wherefore  he  has  prayed  the  king  for  remedy  ; 
and  the  said  John  Colville  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of    102/.  to  have  his  body 
in  chancery  at  the  day  named  on  which  the  said  writ  is  returnable,  in 
order  to  answer  the  said  executors  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things. 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk,  returnable  in 
the  quinzaine  of  Easter. 

Feb.  9.  Thomas  Katermayns  to  Walter  Boteler.     Recognisance  for  1002., 

Westminster,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of    his  lands  and  chattels    in 
Oxfordshire. 

Walter  Boteler  to  Thomas  Katermayns.     Recognisance  for  100/., 
to  be  levied  etc.  in  Berkshire. 


518  I  \l. i:\iv\i:    <)K  CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1  >77.  Membrane  2\d — cont. 

Feb.  12.  William    Wwllc  of    Pykehale   knight    of   Yorkshire  and    John    de 

Weetniin-t.T    .Whcuell    of    Not  \  iiL'li.iinsliiic    to    Richard    de    Kavenser    archdeacon 

of  Lincoln.     Reoognisanoe  for  200  marks,  to  In-  levied  eto.  in  Yorkshire 
and  Not  ynghamahire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

John  de  Tvnten  of  Cornwall  to  Rohcrt  Tresilian.  Recognisance 
for  2001.,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Cornwall. 

John     Foxle     knight     to     Thomas     de     Haselden    of     Wakefeld. 
Recognisance  for  200/..  to  he  levied  etc.  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 

Indenture  made  between  John  de  Foxle  knight  and  Thomas  de 
Haselden  of  Wakefeld,  witnessing  the  defeasance  of  the  foregoing 
recognisance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Thomas,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  shall  peaceably  hold  the  manor  of  Gildenmoredon  as  fully 
as  the  said  Thomas  had  the  same  by  the  said  John's  feoffment,  not 
heing  put  out  by  the  said  John  or  his  heirs  by  recovery  tried  upon 
a  title  older  than  this  date.  Dated  London,  18  February  51  Edward  III. 
French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  19  February. 

Membrane  20d. 

Charter  of  Alexander  Goldyngham  knight,  giving  with  warranty 
to  John  Blaunchard  archdeacon  of  Worcester,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
the  whole  manor  of  Bereford  St.  Martin  by  Wilton  co.  Wiltesir,  with 
homages,  rents  and  all  services  of  free  tenants,  and  reversions  and  the 
customs  and  services  of  neif  tenants  and  all  that  goes  with  them, 
also  all  the  said  Alexander's  lands  in  the  town  of  Bereford  St.  Martin. 
Witnesses  :  Lawrence  de  Sancto  Martino,  Thomas  West,  John  de  la 
Mare  knights,  Nicholas  Bonham,  Henry  Gilberd,  Oliver  Harnham, 
Henry  Haversham.     Dated  7  July  50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  Alexander  Goldyngham  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with 
warranty  to  Master  John  Blaunchard  archdeacon  of  Worcester,  his 
heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Bereford  St.  Martin  by  Wilton  co. 
Wiltesir  and  of  all  lands  in  the  town  of  Bereford  St.  Martin  which 
the  said  archdeacon  holds  by  his  grant.  Witnesses  (as  the  last). 
Dated  5  November  50  Edward  III. 

Charter  of  Alexander  Goldyngham,  granting  with  warranty  to 
Master  John  Blaunchard  archdeacon  of  Worcester,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
a  yearly  rent  of  10/.  payable  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even 
portions  by  Thomas  Peioun,  son  and  heir  of  John  Peioun  of  Schafte- 
bury,  for  the  manor  of  Bereford  St.  Martin  by  Wylton  co.  Wiltesir 
which  the  said  Thomas  holds  for  a  term  of  years  by  demise  of  the  said 
Alexander,  granting  also  the  reversion  of  the  said  manor  when  it  shall 
fall  in.     Witnesses  (as  before).     Dated  7  July  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charters  and 
writing,  9  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  John  Chambirleyn,  son  and  heir  of  Ralph  Chambirleyn 
of  Reresby,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  Folville  parson 


51    EDWARD    III.  519 


1377.  Membrane  20d—cont. 

of  Saxelby,  John  de  Friseby  parson  of  Carleton  Curie,  Simon  German 
of  Cosyngton,  William  Robynet  of  Sileby  and  John  Folville  of  Reresby 
and  to  their  heirs  of  all  lands,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents 
and  other  services  in  the  towns  of  Reresby  and  Thursyngton  which 
were  of  his  said  father  and  of  Ralph  Chambirleyn  his  grandfather. 
Dated  10  February  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  February. 

Feb.  13.        John  de  Assheton  under  Lyme  to  John  de  Marcheford  parson  of 
Westminster.  Wakerlegh.     Recognisance  for  4:01.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Lancashire. 

Feb.  3.  Morice  Scot   '  palfreyman  '  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of 

Havering.     Bukfast  co.  Devon,  to  have  for  life  such  maintenance  as  Nicholas 

Venour  in  his  life  time  had  there  by  command  of  the  king  or  his 

forefathers.  By  p.s.  [31305.] 

Feb.  14.  William  de  Tanfeld  parson  of  Wyrkyngton,  John  de  Dent  of  York- 

Westminster,  shire  and  John  de  Preston  the  elder  of  Westmorland  to  William  de 
Dyghton  parson  of  Stayndrop  and  Guy  de  Rouclif  parson  of  Hurthe- 
worth.  Joint  and  several  recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied 
in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire  and 
Westmorland. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Guy. 

William  Wilde  clerk  parson  of  St.  Swythun  Worcester  to  John 
Maleweyn  clerk  and  Joan  who  was  wife  of  William  Maleweyn.  Recognis- 
ance for  2001.,  to  be  levied  etc.  of  Ins  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesias- 
tical goods  in  Worcestershire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  William  la  Zouche  of  Haryngworth  knight,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  six  messuages,  2\  carucates  of  land,  80  acres  of  meadow,  GO  acres  of 
pasture,  40  acres  of  wood  and  60s.  of  rent  in  Louemunstre,  Bromhurst 
and  Kenredford  co.  Sussex,  provided  that  such  warranty  shall  bar  all 
claim  of  the  said  William  and  his  heirs,  but  that  they  shall  not  be 
bound  to  warranty  by  voucher  nor  otherwise  if  the  said  ear],  his 
heirs  or  assigns,  be  impleaded  concerning  the  premises  or  parcel  thereof 
by  any  other  persons.     Dated  London,  8  June  50  Edward  III.   French . 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  February  this  year. 

Writing  of  William  Breckeles  grocer  citizen  of  London,  being  a 
receipt  and  acquittance  to  Edmund  del  Clysse  of  Donewys  for  \00l. 
wherein  the  said  Edmund  was  bound  to  him  by  a  recognisance  made 
before  William  de  Walleworth  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Westminster. 
Dated  London,  14  February  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  February. 

Letters  indented  of  Henry  Lesorope  knight  <>n  the  one    pari    and 

John  Trayly  knight,  son  and  heir  of  John  Trayly.  on  the  Other  pari, 
reciting  that  heretofore  in  the  king's  court  the  said  Sir  John  claimed 
against  the  said  Henry  as  his  right  and  heritage  two  carucatefl  of  land 


MO  CALENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  377.  Membnm  20d—corU. 

and  the  moiety  of  a  messuage  in  Paolynsoray  oo.  Kent,  that  he  after 

made  a  release  of  the  premiaee  with  warranty  to  the  said  Henry,  his 

heirs  ami  assigns,  that  by  charter  lie  gave  to  the  said  Henry,  his  heirs 
and  assigns,  all  other  his  lands,  woods,  meadows  etc.  in  the  said  town, 
and  thai  after  by  tine  levied  in  the  king's  court  the  said  John  son  of 
John  Traily   made  a   quitclaim   with   warranty  of   the  premises  to  the 

id  Henry  and  his  heirs  hy  name  of  the  manor  of  I'aulynscray,  and 
witnessing  that  if  the  said  .Henry,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  shall  be 
impleaded  concerning  the  premises  whereof  he  was  seised  before  the 

id  action  or  parcel  thereof,  the  said  John  son  of  John  shall  not 
make  up  the  \alue  by  reason  of  the  warranty  aforesaid,  but  the  said 
John  the  son  covenants  that  the  same  shall  be  for  a  bar  for  ever  against 
himself  ami  his  heirs.     Dated  London,  7  July  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  Henry,  25  February 
this  year. 

Feb.  3.  Thomas  Hampton  '  palfreyman  '  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of 

Havering.     Westacre,  to  have  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house  as  Benedict 

de  Watford  deceased  had  at  the  command  of  the  king  or  any  of  his 

forefathers.  By  p.s.  [31303.] 

Membrane  \9d. 

Writing  of  William  Weston  of  Kenete,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Ellis  Spelly  of  Bristol,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  messuages,  lands 
reversions,  meadows,  feedings,  pastures,  rents  and  services  in 
Estkenete  and  Westkenete  which  the  said  Ellis  had  by  gift  and  feoffment 
of  Robert  Toly  and  Katherine  his  wife,  and  which  were  sometime  of 
Geoffrey  de  Weston.  Witnesses  :  Humphrey  de  Stafford,  Thomas 
de  Hungerford,  Robert  de  la  Mare,  Philip  fitz  Waryn  knights,  Michael 
Skyllyng,  Robert  de  Cherleton.     Dated  14  February  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  February. 

Writing  of  John  Ragbroke,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Ellis 
Spelly  of  Bristol,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  messuages,  lands  etc.  in 
Estkenet  and  Westkenet  (as  in  the  last).  Witnesses  and  date  (as 
the  last). 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  February. 

Writing  of  Thomas  de  Beverlee  of  Beverley,  granting  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Richard  de  Ravenser  archdeacon  of  Lincoln,  Master  Robert  de 
Beverlaco  and  Richard  de  Chesterf eld  canons  of  the  collegiate  church  of 
St.  John  Beverley,  Sir  John  de  Ravenser  parson  of  Algerkyrke  and  John 
de  Wythornwyk  parson  of  Fylyngham,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a 
yearly  rent  of  10/.  to  be  taken  at  Whitsuntide  and  Martinmas  by  even 
portions  of  all  the  grantor's  lands  in  Beverley,  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears  ;  and  he  has  put  them  in  seisin  by  payment  of  12d.  Dated 
Westminster,  16  February  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  February. 

Feb.  18.         Joan  de  Mohun  of  Dunsterre,  Aubrey  de  Veer  knight  and  Michael 
Westminster,  atte  Mede  to  Roger  Lestraunge  of  Knokyn  knight.     Recognisance  for 
900  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands   and 
chattels  in  Somerset. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  Joan, 


51   EDWARD  ITT.  521 


1377.  Membrane  19d — cont. 

Aubrey  and  Michael  or  one  of  them  pay  a  moiety  of  the  said  sum  at 
Whitsuntide  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Indenture  of  accord  made  between  John  Chasteloun  of  the  one  part 
and  John  Straunge  of  Westbury  and  Mabel  his  wife  of  the  other  part 
concerning  the  wood  called  '  Radclyfwodus  '  in  the  parish  of  Westbury, 
whereupon  debate  was  moved  between  the  parties,  that  John 
Chasteloun  shall  have  to  him  and  his  heirs  '  Radeclyf  park  '  and  the 
woods  called  the  Morezyf  and  the  Fryth  as  by  the  bounds  limited, 
and  John  Straunge  and  Mabel  his  wife  shall  have  to  them  and  their 
heirs  the  residue  of  the  said  wood,  that  John  Chasteloun  shall  make  a 
feoffment  of  his  share  to  two  or  three  feoffees,  who  shall  again  enfeoff 
John  Chasteloun  and  Margaret  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  John's 
body  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  said  John  Straunge 
and  Mabel  and  to  the  heirs  of  John  Straunge,  after  which  John  Straunge 
shall  make  a  confirmation  of  their  estate;  saving  the  remainder  afore- 
said, and  that  John  Chastiloun  shall  make  a  confirmation  of  the  residue 
aforesaid  with  warranty  to  the  said  John  Straunge  and  Mabel.  Dated 
Westminster,  10  February  5}  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  18  February. 

Writing  of  John  de  Meryet  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Guy  de  Bryan  knight,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Wodmersthorn  co.  Surrey.  Witnesses  :  William  Bonvylle  knight, 
Nicholas  Carreu,  Roger  Asshebornham,  John  Kyngesfold,  John 
Wacche.     Dated  London,  16  February  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  February. 

Feb.  18.  Robert  Trenewhit  to  John  Dovy  citizen  of  London.     Recognisance 

Westminster,  for  2001.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Cornwall. 

Charter  of  John  de  Meryet  knight,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  de 
Hare  well  bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells,  Thomas  Mount  clerk  and  John 
Waryn  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  advowson  of  Meryet  church  and 
one  acre  of  land  being  parcel  of  the  manor  of  Meryet.  Witnesses  : 
William  de  Botreaux,  Richard  de  Acton,  John  de  la  Mare,  Hugh  de 
Durburgh  knights,  Henry  Percehay,  John  Bays,  Robert  James. 
Dated  8  February  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  21  February. 

Writing  of  John  Shropham  chaplain,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Sir  Robert  de  Burton  parson  of  Southwokyndon,  his  heirs  and  assigns, 
of  the  manor  of  Leyre  Marny,  the  advowson  of  a  chantry  in  the  church 
thereof,  the  manor  of  Ardernehalle  in  the  town  of  Horndon,  and  all 
other  lands  in  the  towns  of  Great  Totham,  Little  Totham,  Hebregge, 
Little  Leys,  Great  Wyggcberwe,  Salcotc,  Virly,  Tolleshunte  Knyghtes, 
Great  Brakstede,  Kelleveden,  Inneworth,  Feryngge  and  Horndon  co. 
Essex  which  they  the  said  John  and  Robert  lately  had  by  gift  and 
feoffment  of  Sir  Robert  de  Marny  knight.  Witnesses  :  Ralph  Scynlcger 
knight,    John    Gildesburgh,   Robert   fitz  William,   Thomas   Belhoua, 


5tS  i   OjENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1    177.  Mi  mhriDK    \'.hl   -co»t. 

Thomas  Fonge,  John  Amour,  John  Merlawc,  .John  Stodevc     Dated 
Soutwokyndon,  <>  February  ">l  Ekiward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  February. 

Membrane  iBd. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  Richard  Seburgh  of  (  "olchestre, 
being  a  Lease  for  ti\  e  years  from  Michaelmas  last .  by  mainprise  of  John 
I'n  ni ys  of  Colohestre  and  Henry  atte  Stile  of  Coggcshale  co.  Essex, 
of  the  Bubsidy  in  Essex  and  Hertfordshire  upon  cloths  for  Bale  granted 
to  the  king  1>\  the  lords  and  commons  of  bis  realm  t<>  have  release  of  the 
forfeiture  of  alnage  thereupon  Laid  of  old  time,  rendering  40  marks 
a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions.  Covenants  (as 
abovi.  p.  104).  saving  wholly  to  the  king  the  forfeiture  of  cloth  exposed 
for  sale  before  being  staled  with  the  seal  appointed  for  the  purpose, 
and  saving  and  reserving  also  to  the  king  the  forfeitures  laid  by 
statute  of  the  parliament  holdcn  at  Westminster  on  the  morrow  of  St. 
Edmund  Martyr  in  the  47th  year  of  the  reign  upon  cloths  exposed  for 
sale  which  are  not  of  tin  length  and  breadth  in  the  said  statute  con- 
tained, and  the  farmer  shall  answer  at  the  exchequer  for  the  forfeitures 
last  mentioned.     Dated   Westminster,    20   February.     French. 

By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 
The  like  leases  made  to  the  following  persons  : 

Herefordshire.  William  Leyghton  of  Hereford  for  seven  years  from 
Michaelmas  last,  rendering  41.  a  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas 
by  even  portions.  Mainpernors,  Thomas  Clerk  of  Hereford 
and  John  de  Hereford  of  Herefordshire.  Dated  Westminster, 
12  April.     French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Worcestershire.  Alexander  de  Besford  for  six  years  from  Easter 
last  rendering  60s.  a  year  at  Michaelmas  and  Easter  by  even 
portions.  Mainpernors,  Henry  Haggeleye  and  Richard  Ryhall 
of  Worcestershire.     Dated  Westminster,  1  March.     French. 

Indenture  made  between  the  king  and  John  de  Pathorn  of  York 
draper,  being  a  lease  for  three  years  from  Michaelmas  last,  by  mainprise 
of  Guy  de  Rouclyf  clerk,  Simon  de  Elvyngton  and  John  de  Rouclyf 
of  Yorkshire,  of  the  subsidy  in  Yorkshire,  Northumberland,  Cumber- 
land and  Westmorland  upon  cloths  for  sale  etc.,  rendering  55  marks 
every  year  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  etc  ;  and 
in  aid  of  his  farm  and  for  his  diligence  in  that  behalf  for  the  king's 
profit  the  said  farmer  shall  have  to  his  own  use  all  cloths  forfeit  as 
aforesaid  during  all  that  term,  saving  to  the  king  the  forfeitures  laid 
by  statute  etc.  (as  above,  mutatis  mutandis).  Dated  Westminster, 
22  February.    French.  By  bill  of  the  treasurer. 

Membrane  lid. 

Feb.  23.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  Pokel- 

Westminster.  church  of  Wyltesir,  John  Toucestre  of  Norhamptonshire  and  Reynold 
Sheffeld  of  Berkshire  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents 
against  Richard  Bedwynde  citizen  and  pepperer  of  London,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  John  Hadlee  citizen  and 
pepperer  of  London  is  impleading  the  said  Richard  for  an  alleged  debt 
of  201.  105.,  and  the  defendant  is  put  in  exigents  from  husting  to 
husting  to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to 


51  EDWARD  III. 


.12:5 


1377. 


Membrane  lid — cont. 


answer  the  plaintiff,  being  altogether  without  knowledge  thereof  it  is 
said,  wherefore  he  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  as  he  is  ready  to 
stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
20Z.  to  have  defendant's  body  before  the  said  justices  the  day  the 


writ  of  exigents  is  returnable. 

Feb.  26.  To    the    same.     Like    order,    mutatis    mutandis,    by    mainprise   of 

Westminster.  William  Torgold,  William  Turk,  Roger  Turk  and  John  Gippewych  of 

London,  in  favour  of  Robert  Burden  whom  Master  John  de  Appelby 

dean  of   St.  Pauls  London  is  impleading  before  the  same  justices  to 

render  account  for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver  of  the  dean's  moneys. 

Feb.  8.  To  John  Cavendissh  and    his  fellows,  justices    appointed  to  hold 

Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Joan  countess  of 
Hereford  presented  in  this  parliament,  to  continue  until  the  octaves 
of  St.  John  Baptist  next  in  the  state  wherein  they  now  are  the  plea 
and  process  hereinafter  mentioned  and  all  things  following  thereupon  ; 
as  her  petition  shews  that,  although  she  holds  in  dower  for  her  life  the 
manor  of  Kynebauton  co.  Huntingdon  with  the  soke,  which  pertained 
of  old  time  to  the  constableship  of  England  as  she  says,  and  a  third 
part  of  the  manor  of  Worsle  which  is  parcel  of  the  honour  of  Hunting- 
don, of  the  heritage  of  Eleanor  wife  of  the  king's  son  Thomas  de  Wod- 
stoke  constable  of  England  and  of  Mary  sister  of  the  said  Eleanor, 
being  daughters  and  heirs  of  Humphrey  de  Bohun  earl  of  Hereford 
tenant  in  chief,  and  being  within  age  and  in  the  king's  wardship,  and 
although  the  manor  of  Kynebauton  and  all  other  manors  pertaining 
to  the  constableship,  and  likewise  the  manor  of  Worsle  and  all  other 
manors  and  lands  of  the  said  honour,  and  all  the  tenants  thereof  time 
out  of  mind  ought  to  be  quit  and  altogether  discharged  of  all  toll,  pon- 
tage and  other  customs  throughout  the  whole  realm,  the  countess 
or  the  tenants  of  her  said  manor  and  third  part  are  among  others 
assessed  for  the  premises  by  men  of  the  country  at  divers  sums  of 
money  for  the  repair  of  Huntyngdon  bridge,  and  at  the  suit  of  the 
overseers  of  the  said  bridge  the  said  sums  are  unlawfully  demanded 
of  the  countess  or  her  tenants  in  name  of  pontage  by  grievous 
distresses  as  she  says,  praying  a  stay  until  the  full  age  of  the  said  heirs  ; 
and  forasmuch  as  it  is  the  king's  will  to  maintain  such  heirs  in  all 
their  rights,  being  within  age  and  in  his  wardship,  with  the  assent 
of  the  prelates,  earls  and  barons  in  the  said  parliament  the  king  has 
made  order  for  a  stay  until  the  octaves  aforesaid. 

By  pet.  in  pari.  [Ancient  Petitions,  886.] 


March  4.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Podenale 
Westminster,  of  London,  John  atte  Hethe  of  London,  Adam  Chaufcire  of  Essex  and 
John  Cussum  of  London  '  capper '  to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of 
Richard  Ament  '  capper,'  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at 
Westminster  ;  as  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriffs 
to  take  the  said  Richard  wherever  found  in  their  bailiwick,  so  as  to 
have  him  before  the  said  justices  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  to  answer 
Joan  Stury  '  capper  '  as  to  rendering  her  chattels  to  the  value  of  40s.  ; 
and  the  defendant  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  seeing  that  he  is 
ready  to  answer  her  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;   and  the  said 


i   \l. i:\h\i:  in*  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1.17  7.  V>  mbram    I 7'/    <<>nt . 

Willi. mi  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  ohanoexy,  have  main- 
perned  under  a  pain  <>f  5  marks  to  Lave  Ins  body  before  the  said 

justices  at  the  aforesaid  day. 


M  ureh  10. 
Bhflen 

line 


Jolm  Aasheton  '  paHrayman  '  is  sent  to  the  prior  of  the  Hospital  of 
St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England,  to  have  for  life  suoh  maintenance 

in  the  manor  of  Hampton  00.  Middlesex,  which  pertains  to  the 
Hospital  it  is  said,  as  John  Baker  in  his  life  time  had  at  the  king's 
command.  By  p.s.  [31346.] 


Feh.  10.         Peter  Sheford  is  sent  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  St.  Neots,  to  have 
Havering      for  life  such  maintenance  as  Stephen   Charrer  deceased  had  there  at 
the  late  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [31316.] 


manor. 


March  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Middlesex.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Richard  Hamp- 
Wcstminster.  ton  esquire  of  Staffordshire  and  Lawrence  Sebroke  of  the  county  of 
Suthampton  to  stay  the  publication  of  the  exigents  against  John 
Humbleton  clerk  ;  as  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  lately  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  put  the  said  clerk  in  exigents  from  county  to  county  if  he 
should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him  so  as  to  have 
his  body  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity 
in  order  to  account  with  Robert  de  Twyford  knight,  administrator 
of  the  goods  of  John  Chaundos  knight  deceased  intestate  it  is  said, 
for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver  of  deceased's  moneys  by  the  hands 
of  Thomas  Orgrave  clerk  of  the  treasury  at  Westminster  and  Robert  de 
Morton,  as  the  said  defendant  has  acknowledged  in  the  king's  court  in 
pleading  before  the  said  justices  ;  and  the  defendant  has  petitioned 
the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  plaintiff 
and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Richard  and  Lawrence, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  100 
marks  to  have  the  defendant  before  the  said  justices  at  the  aforesaid 
day. 

March  15.       Fulk  de  Pembrigge  knight  to  John  Hende  citizen  and   draper    of 
Westminster.  London.     Recognisance  for  128?.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Salop. 

March  12.  To  the  sheriff  of  Warrewyk.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  de 
Westminster.  Parys  of  Cambridgeshire,  John  Burglioun  of  Warwickshire,  John  de 
Molynton  of  Salop  and  Peter  Dyngeley  of  London  to  stay  the  taking 
of  the  body  of  William  de  Cristelton  by  virtue  of  the  king's  late  writ 
de  judicio  ordering  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said  William  so  as  to  have 
him  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  at  a  set  day  therein  contained 
to  answer  William  Aubyn  clerk  and  Richard  Aubyn  concerning  an 
alleged  trespass,  and  order  to  bring  this  writ  before  the  said  justices  ; 
as  the  said  Robert  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20Z.  to  have  the  defendant's  body 
before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  appointed. 


March  30.        William  Aleyn   '  cordewaner  '  and  citizen  of  London  to    Thomas 
Westminster,  de  Brayles.     Recognisance  for  20  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of 
payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 


51  EDWARD  III.  525 


1377.  Membrane  lid — cont. 

April  3.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Ralph  de 

Westminster.  Pynyngton  cleik  of  Lancashire,  Roger  dc  Welford  clerk,  Edmund 
Brudnelle  of  Northamptonshire  and  William  Herrebury  of  Derbyshire  to 
stay  the  exigents  against  John  de  Barton  parson  of  Lekhampstede, 
although  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriff  to  put 
the  said  parson  in  exigents  from  county  to  county  until  outlawed, 
and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  justices 
at  Westminster  in  the  octaves  of  Michaelmas  in  order  to  content  the 
king  for  his  ransom  for  a  certain  trespass  by  force  of  arms  committed 
against  Peter  Smyth  of  Lekhampstede  ;  as  the  said  Ralph  and  the 
others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a 
pain  of  20/.  to  have  the  said  parson  before  the  said  justices  at 
that  day. 

April  4.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Roger  de  Wedon 

Westminster,  of  Coventre,  William  Shiplode  of  Coventre,  John  Fylongley  of  Coventre 
and  William  Heton  of  London  '  taillour  '  to  set  free  John  Shiplode  from 
Neugate  prison,  if  there  detained  for  the  cause  hereinafter  stated  and 
for  none  other  ;  as  at  the  suit  of  William  Wolf  of  Covyntre,  averring 
that  the  prisoner  threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs  and  to  burn  his 
houses,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  him  to  come  before  them, 
and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the 
sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would  answer,  would 
mainpern  him  that  he  should  do  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm  to  the 
complainant's  body  nor  to  his  houses  by  burning,  and  if  he  should 
refuse,  to  commit  him  to  prison,  there  to  abide  until  he  would  willingly 
so  do  ;  but  the  said  Roger  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  20Z. 

March  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lincoln.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Aunesley 
Westminster,  knight  and  Thomas  de  Aunesley  of  Notynghamshire  to  stay  until  the 
octaves  of  St.  John  Baptist  next  the  execution  of  a  writ  of  exigents 
against  Thomas  de  Staunton  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  lately 
Adam  de  Ayleston  impleaded  the  defendant  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  for  an  alleged  debt  of  20Z.,  and  by  process  thereupon  had  so  far 
prosecuted  the  business  that  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the 
sheriff  to  put  the  defendant  in  exigents  from  county  to  county  until 
outlawed  if  he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take 
him  and  keep  him  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the 
said  justices  at  the  day  named  ;  but  he  has  found  in  chancery  the  said 
John  and  Thomas  dc  Aunesley,  who  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
20/.  to  be  levied  to  the  king's  use  of  their  lands  and  chattels  if  they  have 
not  the  defendant  before  the  said  justices  at  that  day. 

MEMBRANE   \Qd. 

Feb.  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  Oxford.     Older,  upon  the  petition  of  Bartholomew 

Westminster.  Bozan  of  the  fellowship  of  Lukes,  by  mainprise  of  Walter  Southous  of 

London,  Roger  Gresleye,  William  Wolf  of  Derbyshire  and  Geoffrey  de 

Somerton  of  Nbrffolk  to  stay  the  further  publication  of  the  exigents 

against  him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the 
justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  John  Wvneriche 
is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  for  an  alleged  debt  of  311., 
that  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  Oxfordshire  to  be  outlawed  lor  that  he 


I  \ u:\h\K  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1 3  i  i .  .1/-  mbraiu  l<></ — cont. 

me  doI  before  thoee  justices  ii»  answer,  being  altogether  without 
knowledge  thereof,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things, 
praying  a  >ta\  ;  and  the  said  Walter  and  the  others,  appearing  in 
person  in  ohanoery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  401.  to  have  him 

before   the  said    justices   three    weeks   after    Master   next,    at   which  day 

the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable. 

I  ■      28  Ralph  de  Ferrariia  knight,  Robert  de  Ferrariis  knight,  Nicholas  de 

Westminster.  Stafford  knight,  Adam  Peshale,  William  de  Ghetewynd  of  Calvyngton 

and  lleiii\  I'uyse  of  Rnggeley  to  .John  de  Beverle  of  Pencrich.    Joint 

and  several  recognisance  for  1.000/..  to  he  levied,  in  default  of  payment 

of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Staffordshire. 

Can  a  Ih  1 1  on  paynu  nf. 

Feb.  18.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Geoffrey  Randolf 

Westminster,  oi  Killuin.  to  cause  Henry  Damyot,  John  son  of  Geoffrey  Randolf, 
Qeoffrey  son  of  Richard  Randolf  and  Roger  his  brother,  William  de 
Swale,  William  Redcer,  Thomas  Salvan  '  warner,'  John  Baroun,  Hugh 
Lanrannce,  William  de  Swathorp,  John  Martynnet,  Henry  de  Craunce- 
wyk  '  t  ay  Hour,'  John  Tothe  and  Richard  Randolf  to  come  before  him, 
and  to  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  of  40J.,  will 
mainpern  for  every  one  of  them  that  they  shall  do  or  procure  no 
bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  petitioner,  and  if  they  shall  refuse,  to  commit 
them  to  prison,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  will  willingly 
so  do,  certifying  under  his  seal  in  chancery  the  security  so  taken,  and 
sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  the  said  petition  shews  that  the  said  Henry 
and  the  others  threatened  the  petitioner  in  life  and  limbs,  praying 
the  king  to  make  provision  for  his  safety. 

Feb.  10.  To  William  de  Ufford  earl  of  Suffolk.  Order  to  send  under  his  seal 
Westminster,  into  chancery  all  indictments,  records,  processes,  rolls,  memoranda  etc. 
whatsoever  before  him  and  his  fellows  had  which  concern  the  office 
hereinafter  mentioned,  with  the  original  writs  and  all  other  things 
affecting  the  same,  also  this  writ,  that  these  being  viewed  and  examined 
the  king  may  further  deal  as  of  right  ought  to  be  done  according 
to  the  law  and  custom  of  England  ;  as  lately  by  letters  patent  the 
king  appointed  the  earl  and  certain  other  lieges  his  justices  in  Norffolk 
and  Suffolk  to  make  inquisition  concerning  great  number  of  alleged 
extortions,  oppressions,  forgeries,  deceits,  champerties,  ambidextries 
maintenances,  trespasses,  hurts,  grievances  and  excesses  there  com- 
mitted against  divers  his  subjects,  and  to  do  certain  other  things  in  the 
said  letters  contained,  and  for  particular  causes  him  moving  it  is  the 
king's  will  to  be  certified  touching  the  records,  processes  etc.  before 
them  made. 

Feb.  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Kynges- 
Westminater.  mulle,  John  Colyngborne  the  younger  and  Hugh  Medmenham  of  that 
county  to  stay  the  publication  of  the  exigents  against  John  Queyneld, 
bringing  this  wTit  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  at  the  day  a 
rat  de  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of  John  Alton  of  Froille  is 
returnable  ;  as  lately  by  that  writ  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  put 
the  defendant  in  exigents  from  county  to  county  until  outlawed  if 
he  should  not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him  and  keep 


51    EDWARD    III. 


527 


1377.  Membrane  \6d — covt. 

him  in  prison  in  safe  custody  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  justices 
at  Westminster  at  a  set  day  in  that  writ  contained  in  order  to  answer 
the  plaintiff,  and  the  defendant  has  prayed  for  a  stay,  shewing  that 
he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
John  Kyngesmulle  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  100.9.  to  have  him  before  the  said 
justices  at  the  aforesaid  day. 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Dorset  in  favour  of  the  said  John  Queyneld, 
by  the  mainprise  aforesaid  to  stay  the  exigents  at  the  suit  of  Thomas 
Marschal  chaplain  for  a  debt  of  13/. 

Feb.  24.  To  the  sheriff  of  York.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  Parche- 

Westminster.  inener  of  Grantham  and  Thomas  Bygot,  by  mainprise  of  Robert  de 
Kirkton,  William  de  WTelton,  Richard  de  Swyneshed  and  Thomas  de 
Sireston  of  Lincolnshire  to  stay  the  exigents  against  them  and  the 
taking  of  their  bodies,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the 
Bench  ;  as  their  petition  shews  that  Thomas  de  Frytheby  is  impleading 
them  in  the  king's  court  before  the  said  justices  for  that  contrary  to 
the  ordinance  they  admitted  to  their  service  and  retained  John  Mot  late 
in  the  plaintiff's  service  at  York,  who  withdrew  from  that  service 
,  without  reasonable  cause  and  the  plaintiff's  licence  before  the  term 
agreed,  although  required  to  give  him  up,  shewing  that  they  are  put  in 
exigents  in  Yorkshire  to  be  outlawed  although  they  are  ready  to  answer 
in  that  plea  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  and  praying  for  remedy  ; 
and  the  said  Robert  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  the  defendants  before  the 
said  justices  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  in  order  to  answer 
as  well  the  king  as  the  plaintiff  in  the  aforesaid  plea. 

March  7.  Roger  de  Clifford  knight  to  Thomas  Tyrell  knight,  John  James  of 

Westminster.  Walyngford  and  Edmund  Hyndon.  Recognisance  for  340/.  6s.  8c/., 
to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in 
Westmorland. 

Cancelled  on  payment,  acknowledged  by  the  said  Edmund. 

Indenture  made  between  Sir  Roger  de  Clifford  lord  of  Westmorland 
of  the  one  part  and  Thomas  Tirell,  John  James  of  Walyngford  and 
Edmund  Hyndon  of  the  other  part,  being  a  defeasance  of  the  fore- 
going recognisance,  upon  condition  that  Sir  Roger  pay  or  cause  to  be 
paid  to  the  said  Thomas,  John  and  Edmund  or  to  their  attorneys  in 
the  cathedral  church  of  St.  Paul  London  100  marks  at  Easter  next  or 
within  six  weeks  after,  51/.  15s.  at  Whitsuntide  following  or  within 
six  weeks  after,  and  51/.  15s.  at  Michaelmas  following  or  within  six 
weeks  after.     Dated  London,  8  March  51  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  7  March. 

March  8.         Robert  atte  Selere  to  John  prior  of  the  house  of  the  Mother  of  God  of 
Westminster,  the  Carthusian  order  London.     Recognisance  for  12/.,  to  be  levied,  in 
default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Kent. 

Charter  of  William  de  Chuselden,  giving  with  warranty  to  Master  John 
Blaunchard  clerk,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  the  manor  of  Bereford  St.  Martin 
co.  Wiltesir,  with  the  homages,  rents  and  services  of  all  free  tenants  and 


CALENDAB  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L377,  Mnnhram    1(W     rent. 

reversions,  the  customs  and  services  of  noif  tenants,  their  suits  and  all 
that  goes  with  them,  and  all  the  lands  (if  the  gr&ntOI  in  the  said  town. 
Witnesses  :  Law  rence  de  Sancto  Martino.  IIul'Ii  Tyrel.  John  de  la  Mare 
knL'hts.  Michael  Skyllyng,  Nicholas  Honham.  Oliver  Harnham, 
Thomas  Blaunohard.  Dated  .Monday  after  St.  Peter  and  St.  Paul 
47  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  de  Chuseldene,  being  a  letter  of  attorney  appoint- 
ing John  Blaunehard  the  younger  to  deliver  to  Master  John  Blaunchard 
clerk  seisin  of  the  manor  of  Bereford  St.  Martin  co.  Wiltesir  and  of  other 
lands  in  that  town  according  to  a  charter  to  him  made.  Dated  (as 
the  last). 

Writing  of  William  Chuselden,  being  a  letter  of  intendence  to  all 
his  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Bereford  St.  Marty n  co.  Wiltesir,  directing 
them  to  attorn  tenants  to  Master  John  Blaunchard  clerk  to  whom  he 
has  granted  their  homages  etc.  and  the  said  manor  by  charter.  Dated 
London  (as  before).     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writings,  11  March  this  year. 

• 

April  5.  Peter  Fraunk   one  of   the   king's   henchmen   (henxslmannorum)  is 

Sheen.        sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Torre,  to  have  such  maintenance  as 

Roger  Copper  deceased  had  there  at  the  command  of  the  king  or  his 

forefathers.  By  p.s.  [31383.] 

MEMBRANE  \hd. 

Feb.  26.  To  the  sheriff  of  Salop.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  de  Bolthorp 

Westminster,  of  Yorkshire,  Robert  de  Kyngeston  of  Middlesex,  Richard  Fauncy  of 
the  county  of  Suthampton  and  John  Marchal  of  Norffolk  to  stay  the 
publication  of  the  exigents  against  Thomas  Cotes  of  Harleye  ;  as 
lately  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  put  the  said 
Thomas  in  exigents  from  county  to  county  until  outlawed  if  he  should 
not  appear,  and  if  he  should  appear  to  take  him  and  keep  him  in 
prison  in  safe  custody,  so  as  to  have  his  body  before  the  king  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Easter  to  content  the  king  of  his  ransom  by  reason  of 
disseising  Blanche  who  was  wife  of  Roger  son  of  Robert  de  Buterleye 
knight  of  tenements  in  Lutelbromfeld  and  Michelbromfeld  by  force 
of  arms  ;  and  the  defendant  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing 
that  he  is  ready  to  answer  the  king  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ; 
and  the  said  Robert  de  Bolthorp  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  10Z.  to  have  him  before  the 
king  at  the  aforesaid  day. 

Writing  of  Edmund  Waldeyeve  of  Warwickshire  and  Margery  his 
wife,  being  a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  John  Foxle,  Bernard 
Brokas,  John  Golafre  knights,  Adam  de  Hertyngdon,  John  Bukyngham, 
John  Campeden,  Richard  Toneworthe,  John  Rouceby,  Thomas  Cook, 
John  Ketene  clerks,  William  Walleworth,  William  Haldenne,  William 
Worfton,  Thomas  Dru  and  Stephen  Haym,  their  heirs  or  assigns,  of  the 
manors  of  Broughton  and  Northnewenton  co.  Oxford  and  the  advowson 
of  Broughton  church.  Witnesses  :  Richard  de  Abburbury,  Baldwin  de 
Bereford,  John  de  Nowers,   Gilbert  Was,   Robert  Symeon  knights, 


51  EDWARD  III.  520 


1377.  Membrane  \5d — cont. 

John  de  Lcukenore,  John  Laundeles,  Thomas  dc  la  Mere,  John  Hardy, 
Robert  Bra  vies,  Richard  Craunford,  John  James.  Dated  Dadyngton, 
10  February  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  28  February. 

March  1.         John  Abraham  clerk  and  John   Ramsey  of  Tettebury  to  Adam 
Westminster.  Houton   bishop  of  St.   Davids.     Joint  and  several  recognisance  for 
200Z.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  their  lands  and  chattels 
in  Herefordshire. 

Cancelled  on  payment. 

March  2.         John  Sapy  knight  to  Nicholas  Carreu.     Recognisance  for  30Z.,  to 
Westminster,  be  levied  etc.  in  Worcestershire. 

Memorandum  of  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John 
pay  15/.  65.  8d.  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next. 

Writing  of  Lawrence  Trussell,  son  of  Warin  Trussell,  being  a  quit- 
claim with  warranty  to  Brian  de  Stapelton  knight,  his  heirs  and 
assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Farlyngton  co.  York,  now  held  for  life  by 
the  said  Brian  and  Alice  his  wife  of  the  heritage  of  the  said  Lawrence 
and  his  parceners.  Dated  Helagh.  Friday  after  St.  Valentine 
51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  2  March. 

Feb.  18.  To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  the  city  of  New  Sarum.     Order  to 

Westminster,  cause  proclamation  to  be  made  of  an  ordinance  lately  made  by  assent 
of  the  prelates,  earls  and  barons  in  the  parliament  of  Westminster 
on  Monday  after  St.  George  last  concerning  sweet  wines,  and  to  cause 
the  same  to  be  kept  ;  as  order  was  lately  made  by  the  king  and  council 
that  no  merchant  or  other  should  under  pain  of  forfeiture  thereof 
secretly  or  openly  sell  such  wines  or  cause  them  to  be  sold  at  retail 
in  the  cit}'  of  London  or  elsewhere  within  the  realm  ;  but  it  has  been 
ordered  as  aforesaid  that  every  freeman  of  the  said  city  and  all  others 
throughout  the  realm  may  lawfully  sell  the  same  without  let  wholesale 
or  at  retail,  the  first  ordinance  notwithstanding. 

[Fcedera.] 

The  like  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton. 

[Ibid.] 

March  4.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Fcmandes 
Westminster,  knight,  John  Alfons  knight  and  John  Gomes  to  stay  altogether  the 
taking  of  the  bodies  of  Alphonso  Ruys,  Fernando  Goters,  Fernando 
Alfons  and  Lopino  Piers;  as  upon  the  petition  of  Godcsalo  Mounte, 
Roderigo  Alfons  and  Alphonso  Fernandes,  averring  that  Fernando 
Roderyk,  Fernando  Alfons,  Roderigo  Alfrcs,  Fernando  Gomes,  Alphonso 
Ruys/ John  Gonsales,  Pedro  Ruys,  Fernando  Goters,  Alvero  Seintes, 
John  Seintes,  Gonsalo  Fernandes,  Pedro  Fernandes,  Lopino  Pyers 
and  John  Goters  threatened  them  bodily  hurt  with  a  weapon,  the 
king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  all  those  defendants  to  come  before 
them,  and  to  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain 
to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would  answer, 
would  mainpcrn  that  they  should  do  no  hurt  or  harm  to  the  com- 
plainants, and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  commit  them  to  Neugate  gaol 
there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  should  willingly  so  do  ; 

Wt.  11824.  cv-  34 


I    \  I.I'M  »AK   OF  CLUSK    ROLLS. 


L377.  Mimlnam     \~>d — CO/l/. 

bat  the  said  John  Fernandas  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  «>f  40/.  for  the 
four  defendants  firsl  aamed. 

March  i  To  Alan  de  Boxhul]  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  his 

tminstor.  lieutenant.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Salamon  Wauter,  Nicholas  Carter, 
Tbomas  Gaywode  01  Middlesex.  .John  Myte,  Robert  de  Hullo  and 
Richard  Turk  of  the  city  «>f  London  to  set  free  Hugh  de  Ryngburgh 
Erom  the  prison  of  the  Tower;  as  the  said  Salamon  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
l.iMXV.  to  have  his  body  before  the  king  and  council  wheresoever  and 
whensoever  they  shall  be  warned,  in  order  to  answer  the  king  concerning 
certain  goods  and  merchandise  by  the  said  Hugh  and  others  taken  at 
sea  in  three  tarits  of  the  king's  friendship  it  is  said,  and  further  to  do 
and  receive  what  shall  then  be  appointed  by  advice  of  the  council. 

Charter  of  John  Chandos,  giving  with  warranty  to  Master  Thomas 
C'handos  clerk,  Walter  Bromwych,  Master  John  de  Bryene  clerk, 
Guy  de  Bryene  the  son  knight  and  Nicholas  de  Carreu,  their  heirs 
and  assigns,  the  castle  of  Snodeshulle  and  the  manors  of  Founhope 
and  Lymbury  co.  Hereford,  and  the  reversion  of  the  manors  of 
Welyngton  and  Lugwardyn,  now  held  for  life  by  Lucy  Chandos  with 
reversion  to  the  grantor  and  to  his  heirs.  Dated  Snodeshulle,  10  April 
51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  April. 

April  16.         John  Dodeforth  prior  of  St.  Frideswide  Oxford,  for  himself  and  the 
tminstor.  convent,  to  Richard  Ravensere  clerk.     Recognisance  for  40J.,  to  be 
levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical 
goods  in  Oxfordshire. 

Defeasance  thereof,  upon  condition  that  the  said  prior  pay  20?.  on 
1  August  next. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

Writing  of  Hugh  Fastolf  of  Great  Jernemuth,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  John  de  Lakyngheth  and  Edmund  de  Lakyngheth  his  son  of  50 
marks  of  yearly  rent  to  be  taken  of  all  their  lands  in  Suffolk  wheiein 
the  said  John  and  Edmund  were  bound  to  him.  Dated  Ereswelh 
Friday  before  the  Annunciation  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  April. 

Writing  of  Christina  who  was  wife  of  William  Langele  of  Knolton 
co.  Kent  in  her  widowhood,  being  a  quitclaim  to  John  de  Wetheresfeld, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  of  free  and 
ncif  tenants  in  Sauston  co.  Cantebrigge  which  the  said  John  has  by 
gift  and  feoffment  of  Henry  Warddedewe  of  Tilmanstone.  Dated 
Monday  after  the  Epiphany  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Langedon,  14  April  this  year, 
before  the  abbot  of  Langedon  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimu* 
potestatem  which  is  on  the  files  of  chancery. 

MEMBRANE  14(7. 

Writing  of  William  Batesford  and  Richard  Halle,  being  a  quitclaim 
to  Hugh  de  Badewe  knight,  Walter  Frost,  Ellis  Thorp,  Sir  Robert 


51  EDWARD  III.  *  531 


1377.  Membrane  14d — cont. 

de  Chilton  chaplain,  Sir  Thomas  Cuntasthorp  chaplain,  Thomas  Joel 
clerk  and  Henry  de  Crofton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of 
Gasselyns  otherwise  called  '  Gasselynpark '  and  Holewelle,  ot  all 
lands,  rents,  services  and  reversions  whatsoever  in  Hertfordshire  which 
they  the  said  William  and  Richard  with  Roger  Asshebournham  and 
Edmund  del  Clay  had  by  gift,  demise,  lease  or  feoffment  of  Simon 
de  Lek  knight  of  Cotom  co.  Notyngham,  and  of  all  lands,  homages, 
rents,  services,  reversions,  liberties,  warrens,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures,  commons,  woods,  groves,  fishponds  and  fisheries  in  Hatfeld, 
Beyford,  Brykyndon,  Holewelle  and  Hertfordyngbury  co.  Hertford 
which  the  said  Hugh  and  the  others  have  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  the 
said  Roger.  Witnesses  :  Robert  de  Louthe,  John  Olneye,  John 
Lodeford,  John  Dauney,  John  Medebrok,  Simon  Pekkeville,  Robert 
Pomesbourne.     Dated  Beyford,  16  April  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster, 
17  April. 

Writing  of  Simon  Percy,  son  of  Geoffrey  de  Percy,  being  a  quitclaim 
with  warranty  to  John  Cok  clerk,  Robert  Grundeswell  clerk,  Richard 
Sholeway  clerk  and  Walter  Purdeu,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all 
lands,  rents  and  services  in  Brynsham  and  Assh  with  appurtenances 
in  the  parish  of  Netherbury.  Witnesses  :  Walter  de  Clopton,  John 
Mautravers,  William  Peytefyn,  Thomas  Husee,  John  Fitelton,  John 
de  Crokerne.  Richard  Dorchestre.  Dated  Dorchestre,  15  April 
51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  April. 

Writing  of  John  Giffard  of  Cotherstoke  clerk  of  Norhamptonshire, 
being  a  general  release  to  Sir  Walter  de  Clifton  abbot  of  Wardon 
co.  Bedford,  Nicholas  Wcsterdale,  William  Wodhill  and  John  de 
Sancto  Neoto  of  all  actions  for  debt  or  account.  Dated  12  February 
51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  20  April. 

Writing  of  John  Coccowe  called  de  Caunterbury  citizen  and 
cordwainer  of  London  and  Agnes  his  wife,  giving  with  warranty  to 
William  de  Kelthorp  citizen  and  cordwainer  of  London,  his  heiis  and 
assigns,  all  the  tenement  in  the  parish  of  St.  Paul  in  the  suburb  of  the 
city  of  Canterbury  with  houses  thereupon  built  which  they  had  by 
gift  and  feoffment  of  Joan  atte  Capel,  situate  between  land  of  the 
heir  of  Michael  Potager  towards  the  east  and  south,  land  sometime 
of  Amy  Doos  towards  the  west,  and  the  Roumelond  towards  the 
north.  Witnesses  :  John  Cheseman,  John  Aleyn,  Henry  Lyncoln, 
Henry  Hamond,  Nicholas  Spicer.  Dated  Canterbury,  20  March 
51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  22  April. 

Writing  of  John  de  Denton  of  Wakefcld  co.  York,  son  and  heir  of 
John  de  Denton  sometime  burgess  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  being  a 
quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Robert  de  Merley  chaplain  of  Newcastle 
aforesaid,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  the  tenement  in  the  said  town 
of  Newcastle  sometime  of  Thomas  Daulyn  grandfather  of  the  grantor 
and  burgess  of  Newcastle,  or  any  rent  issuing  therefrom,  which 
tenement  lies  by  the  Calecrossc  in  breadth  between  a  tenement  of 


(    U.KNhAi:  l.nSK   ROLLS. 


1 . 3  .  7.  Mi  mhrum    14d-   OOtU. 

Thomas  Wodemane  burgees  of  Newcastle  and  ■  tenement  sometime 
of  Lawrenoe  de  Acton  burgess  of  Newcastle  extending  in  length  from 
the  highway  before  to  the  oastle  moat  behind  ;  also  of  all  lands,  rents 
and    |  ons   in    the   town   of    Newcastle   BOmctimc   of   Adam   do 

N<  ditton  or  William  Hants  burgesses  thereof.  Witnesses:  .John 
de   Bulkham  then  mayor  of   Newcastle.  John  de   Hoiiden,  Thomas  de 

Wodemane,  John  de  Howell.  Thomas  de  Treble,  Robert  Oliver.  William 
de  Redmersshylle,  Roland  Aimestraungge,  Thomas  deSkelton,  Thomas 
de  Birteley.  Dated  Newcastle  aforesaid,  Tuesday  before  St.  George  61 
Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment.  23  April. 

Charter  of  William  de  Thorp  knight,  by  licence  of  the  king  giving 
with  warranty  to  Sir  Edmund  de  la  Pole  knight,  Maud  his  wife  and 
Walter  their  son  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  Sir  Edmund,  a  moiety 
of  the  manor  of  Sauston  co.  Cantebrigge  and  all  other  his  lands,  rents 
and  services  etc.  in  the  town  of  Sauston  and  the  towns  of  Badeburgham 
and  Pampesworth,  and  the  reversion  of  the  other  moiety  of  the  said 
manor  after  the  death  of  Henry  Wardedieu  tenant  thereof  for  life, 
the  rents,  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs,  lands,  meadows,  feedings, 
pastures, wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats  etc.  thereto  belonging,  except 
one  acre  of  land  in  Badburghamhay  by  land  of  Robert  Curteys  the  elder 
one  head  abutting  upon  land  of  John  de  Wetherisfeld  the  other  upon 
land  sometime  of  John  Rolf,  the  said  acre  being  parcel  of  the  said 
manor  which  is  held  in  chief.  Witnesses  :  George  Muschet  knight, 
Thomas  de  Sauston,  Ralph  de  Huntyngdon,  Thomas  de  Wetherisfeld, 
Roger  Ferrour.     Dated  Sauston,  Sunday  after  St.  Lucy  50  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  William  de  Thorp  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Edmund  de  la  Pole  knight.  Maud  his  wife  and  Walter  their  son 
and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns  of  the  said  Edmund,  as  well  of  the  manor 
of  Sauston  co.  Cantebrigge  as  of  all  other  lands,  rents,  reversions 
and  services  of  free  men  and  neifs  in  the  town  of  Sauston  and  the 
towns  of  Badburgham  and  Pampesworth,  except  one  acre  of  land 
in  the  said  manor,  being  parcel  thereof,  and  lying  in  Badburgham 
hay  by  land  of  Robert  Curteys  the  elder  one  head  abutting  upon 
land  of  John  Wetheresfeld  the  other  upon  land  of  John  Rolf,  which 
manor  etc.  (with  the  exception  aforesaid)  the  said  Edmund,  Maud 
and  Walter  have  in  demesne  and  in  reversion  by  gift  of  the  said  William. 
Witnesses  (as  the  lad).  Dated  Sauston,  Wednesday  after  St.  Simon 
and  St.  Jude  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  charter  and 
writing,  25  April  this  year. 

MEMBRANE   13d. 

Feb.  16.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  his  fellows,  justices  appointed  to  hold 
Westminster,  pleas  before  the  king.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Edmund  earl  of 
March  presented  in  this  parliament,  if  proceedings  have  been  had 
before  them  as  stated,  to  continue  until  the  octaves  of  St.  John  Baptist 
next  in  the  state  they  now  are  the  plea  and  process  hereinafter  men- 
tioned and  all  things  depending  thereupon ;  as  his  petition  shews  that 
although  he  holds  in  right  of  his  wife  the  towns  of  Great  Grantesdon 
and  Wallee  co.  Huntingdon  which  of  old  time  pertained  to  the  honour 


51  EDWARD  III.  533 


1377.  Membrane  l'Sd — cont. 

of  Gloucester  it  is  said,  and  although  those  towns  and  all  the  tenants 
thereof  time  out  of  mind  ought  to  be  quit  and  altogether  discharged 
of  all  toll,  pontage  and  other  customs  throughout  the  realm,  the  earl 
or  his  said  tenants  are  among  others  assessed  for  the  said  towns  by  men 
of  the  country  at  divers  sums  of  money  for  repair  of  Huntyngdon 
bridge,  and  at  the  suit  of  the  overseers  of  the  said  bridge  demand  is 
unlawfully  made  by  process  before  the  said  justices  for  levy  of  those 
sums  in  name  of  pontage  by  grievous  distresses,  praying  a  stay  ; 
and  willing  to  maintain  the  said  earl  in  all  his  rights,  as  he  is  bound 
to  do,  with  the  assent  of  the  prelates,  earls  and  barons  in  the  said 
parliament  the  king  has  taken  order  for  a  stay  until  the  octaves  afore- 
said, to  the  end  that  in  the  mean  time  the  earl  on  behalf  of  himself, 
his  said  tenants  and  his  wife  may  make  search  of  charters  and 
muniments  in  the  king's  treasury  and  elsewhere  which  affect  the 
matter,  if  any  there  be,  and  thereafter  may  obtain  justice  in  the  king's 
court.  By  pet.  in  pari.     [Ancient  Petitions,  982.] 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  said  justices  in  favour  of  Margaret 
Mareschall  countess  of  Norffolk  and  her  tenants  of  the  towns  of 
Everton  and  Fennystanton  co.  Huntingdon,  parcel  of  the  earldom 
of  Norffolk  and  lordship  of  Segrave.  By  like  pet. 

Feb.  2.  To  the  sheriff  of  Lancaster.     Order  of  the  king's  favour  by  mainprise 

Westminster,  of  William  de  Becancshowe,  William  de  Berdeshey,  John  Fobell  and 
William  Horbury  of  Lancashire  to  stay  this  time  the  taking  of  the 
body  of  Christina  wife  of  John  Fobell,  and  the  publication  of  the 
exigents  or  of  waiver  against  her,  bringing  this  writ  before  Roger  de 
Kirketon  and  his  fellows  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Lancashire 
the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  ;  as  on  behalf  of  the  said 
John  Fobell  and  Christina  it  is  shewn  the  king  that  at  the  procurement 
of  certain  their  enemies,  against  whom  they  are  prosecuting  divers 
plaints  before  the  king,  the  said  Christina  is  indicted  before  the  said 
justices  for  divers  felonies  and  treasons,  and  is  put  in  exigents  in 
Lancashire  to  be  waived,  and  like  to  be  waived  it  is  said,  for  that 
she  came  not  before  them  to  answer  touching  that  indictment  ;  and 
petition  is  made  to  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing  that  she  is  pregnant 
and  so  near  her  delivery  that  she  may  not  without  great  bodily  peril 
repair  thither  to  answer  the  said  indictment,  and  that  she  is  ready 
to  answer  at  the  aforesaid  day  and  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ; 
and  the  said  William  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  body  for  body  to  have  her  before  the  said  justices 
at  that  day.  By  C. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Bourne  parson  of  Southflete  and  Reynold  de 
Cobeham  clerk,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Nicholas  de  Carreu  the  elder, 
his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Stoke  called  '  Malemaynesinaner  ' 
in  the  hundred  of  Hoo,  the  manor  of  Mayhamme  in  the  parish  of 
Rolvendenn  co.  Kent,  and  all  other  lands,  rents  and  services  in  Kent 
which  thev  the  said  Robert  and  Reynold  had  of  the  gift  and  feoffment 
of  Sir  William  Pympe  knight.     Dated  Stoke.  13  March  51  Edward  111. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  at  Southflete  co.  Kent.  21  March, 
before  Nicholas  Beryng  by  virtue  of  the  king's  writ  of  dedimUS  potestatem 
which  is  on  the  files  lor  this  year. 


I  \i. i:\h\i;  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


L377.  Membraau  l.'W — 001U. 

April  John  I.         one  of  the  king's  palfreymen  is  Benl  i«»  the  prior  and 

n.  Qvenl  of  Thetford,  to  have  for  life  auoh  maintenance  as  William 

de  Ooventre  deceased  had  al  the  king's  oommand.     By  p.s.  [31375.] 

Ifaroh  4.        To  the  Bheriff  of   Hertford.     Order.  upon  the  petition  of   Ralph 

tminater.  Taillonr  of   Pokerioh,   by   mainprise  of   Waller  Soarle  of   Etoteland, 

Thomas    Bukyngham   of    Bukinghamshire,   Peter  Oter  do  Lyoun  of 

London  and  .Jehu  atte    Hide  of   lloteland  to  stay  the  exigents  against 

him  and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices 
of  the  Bench  ;  as  his  petition  shews  that  .John  Beverlee,  George 
\'<  Ibrigge,  Etoberl  Bardolf,  John  parson  of  Bubbyngworth,  William 
Giffaxd  and  Thomas  Van  worth  are  impleading  him  before  the  said 
justices  for  an  alleged  trespass,  that  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  has 
ordered  the  sheriff  to  put  him  in  exigents  from  county  to  county  so 
as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  the  day  that  writ  is  returnable 
for  thai  the  Bheriff  returned  that  he  was  not  found  in  the  sheriff's 
bailiwick,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all 
things  ;  and  the  said  Walter  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in 
chancery  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  at 
the  day  named. 

.March  4.  To  the  sheriff  of  Wiltesir.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Cantilupo 
tminater.  clerk,  John  de  Lilleston.  Richard  Wade  and  Simon  Pynnok  of  Wiltesir 
to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  Adam  Hore  vicar  of  Wambergh, 
bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  ;  as  lately  by 
writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  the  said  Adam, 
Richard  Annore  warden  of  the  chapel  of  St.  Katherine  Wambergh 
and  Robert  Parkerc  vicar  of  Ludyngton  wherever  found  in  his 
bailiwick  so  as  to  have  them  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  in  the 
quinzaine  of  Easter  to  answer  Robert  Palmere,  Richard  Smyth  of 
Baddebnry  and  John  Maydekyn  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  401. ; 
and  the  said  Adam  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing  that 
he  is  ready  so  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
John  de  Cantilupo  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  100s.  to  have  the  said  Adam's  body 
before  the  justices  at  the  day  named. 

Feb.  12.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Robert  Stafford 
Westminster,  knight,  Robert  Walden  of  Warwickshire,  Richard  Botiler  of  Leicester- 
shire and  John  Squyer  of  London  to  stay  the  further  execution  of 
the  king's  writ  against  William  de  Peytho,  John  de  Peytho  knight, 
William  son  of  John  de  Peytho  and  John  Clerk  ;  as  at  the  petition 
of  Robert  Godson  of  Braundeston,  averring  that  the  said  defendants, 
with  Richard  Pauncefote,  John  Herewe,  John  Knyght,  Richard  Carter, 
John  Cateby,  Henry  Coke  and  William  Coke  threatened  him  in  life 
and  limbs,  the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  all  the  defendants 
to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  them  to  find  mainpernors  who, 
under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriffs 
would  answer,  would  mainpern  them  that  they  should  do  or  procure  no 
bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  petitioner,  and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  commit 
them  to  gaol,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  would  willingly 
so  do  ;  but  the  said  Robert  Stafford  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person 
in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  401.  to  be  levied  to 


51    EDWARD    III.  535 


1377.  Membrane  Vid — cunt. 

the  king's  use  of  their  lands  and  chattels  if  bodily  hurt  or  harm  shall 
happen  to  the  petitioner  by  the  four  defendants  first  named  or  by 
their  procurement. 

March  12.  To  John  Legge  serjeant  at  arms.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the 
Westminster,  execution  of  the  king's  command  to  dearrest  and  deliver  certain 
tuns  of  wine  to  Iterus  del  Torroun,  and  in  case  the  same  are  so 
delivered  and  sold  by  him,  order  to  arrest  wholly  to  the  king's  use 
and  keep  under  arrest  until  further  order  the  sums  thereof  arising 
and  any  other  goods  and  chattels  the  said  Iterus  shall  have  at 
Suthampton,  certifying  under  his  seal  in  chancery  with  such  speed 
as  he  may  his  action  in  the  matter,  the  price  of  each  tun  and  in  whose 
hands  the  said  sums  be,  and  sending  again  this  writ  ;  as  at  the  suit 
of  the  said  Iterus,  averring  that  he  was  the  servant  and  merchant 
of  Arnald  de  Favals  burgess  of  the  king's  town  of  Leyburne  in 
Aquitaine,  and  believing  the  said  Iterus  and  Arnald  to  be  his  liege 
subjects,  the  king  lately  ordered  his  said  serjeant,  if  it  was  so,  to 
dearrest  and  deliver  to  the  said  Iterus  21  tuns  of  wine  by  him  bought 
in  Spain  to  his  said  master's  use,  truly  brought  in  merchantlike  manner 
to  the  port  of  Suthampton,  and  there  arrested  as  forfeit  to  the  king's 
use  by  the  said  serjeant  supposing  the  said  Iterus  to  be  the  king's 
enemy  ;  but  the  king  has  learned  by  credible  witness  that  for  particular 
causes  the  said  Iterus  is  banished  from  the  town  of  Leyburne,  and 
that  the  wine  is  his  and  not  of  the  said  Arnald.  By  C. 

The  like,  mutatis  mutandis,  to  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Suthampton. 

March  30.        Hugh  de  Ellerbek  keeper  of  the  king's  wardrobe  in  the  manor  of 

Sheen.        Eltham  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Hide  by  Winchester,  to 

have  for  life  such  maintenance  as  Richard  Albon  deceased  had  there 

at  the  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [31372.] 

April  14.         Thomas  Wyloughby  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Teukesbury, 

Westminster,  to  have  for  life  such  maintenance  as  AVilliam  de  Bristowe  deceased 

had  there  by  command  of  the  king's  forefathers.  By  p.s.  [31390.] 

Membrane  I2d. 

March  2.         To  the    sheriff    of    Northumberland.      Order    to    cause    Bertram 
Westminster.  Monbuichere  and  John  de  Mitford.  knights  of  the  shire  at  the  parliament 
summoned  at  Westminster  in  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  last,  to  have 
of  the  commons  of  the  county,  cities  and  boroughs  excepted  from 
which  citizens  and  burgesses  came  thither,  20Z.  8s.  for  their  expenses 
in  coming  thither,  there  abiding,  and  thence  returning  to  their  own 
again,  namely  4s.  a  day  each  for  51  days. 
[Prynne,  Parliamentary  Writs,  iv.  p.  310.] 
The  following  have  the  like  writs  : 

Cumberland.     John  de  Denton  and  Amandus  Monceux  201.  85. 

for  51  days. 
Westmorland.     Richard  de  Roos  and  John  son  of  Hugh  de  Lout  hre 

VM.  12s.  for  49  days. 
Yorkshire.     Robert  de  Neville  of  Horncby  and  William  Percehay 

18Z.  16s.  for  47  days. 
Lancashire.     John    Botiller  and   Roger  de   Pilkyngton   18?.    lGs. 
for  47  days. 


,:;,;  I   \i.i  \h\l;    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1 3  i  7.  .'/'  mhniiii     1 1!</      it, nl . 

\   bynghamshire.    John  de  Aunesley  and  John  de   Bekyngham 

17/.  I*,  for  13  days, 
by&hire.    John  de  la  Poleoi  Hertyngdon  and  Edmund  Fouoher 

17/.  I  j.  for  13  <l  i\ b. 
Leyoestershire.     James    Belers  and  William    Flamville  10/.  8*. 

fot  H  days. 
Warwickshire.     Robert  de  Stafford  and  Thomas  do  Bermyngeham 

162.  8*.  for   II  days. 
Lincolnshire.     John  de  Rocheford  and  John  Aunoell  17/.  4s.  for 

43  days.   • 

Roteland.     Nicholas  Grene  and  Lawrence  Hauberk  10/.  8s.  for 

•l  1  days. 
Norhamptonshire.     Thomas    Latymer    and    Richard    Wydeville 

IV.    12*.    lor  :}«!  days. 

Staffordshire.     Nicholas  de  Stafford  and  Adam  de  Peshale  17/.  4s. 

tor  i;!  days. 
Salop.     Brian    de    Cornewayle    and    William    do    Chetwynde    of 

Caiwynton  17/.  4s.  for  4.'}  days. 
Bedfordshire.     John  de  Eynesford  and  Robert  Witteneye   18/. 

for  4.3  days. 
Gloucestershire.     Peter    de    Veel    and    Edmund    de    Bradeston 

17/.  4.s.  for  43  days. 
Worcestershire.     John  de  Sapy  and  John  Beauchamp  17/.  45. 

for  4.'}  days. 
Bedfordshire.     Gerard  de  Braybrok  and  John  Trayle   15/.   12s. 

for  39  days. 
Bukinghamshire.     John  de  Bermyngeham  and  Thomas  Reynes 

15/.  12s.  for  39  days. 
Oxfordshire.     Gilbert  Wace  and  John  James  15/.  12s.  for  39  days. 
Berkshire.      Thomas  Langford  and  John  Estbury   15/.   12s.  for 

3!)  days. 
Essex.     Robert  de  Swynbourne  and  John  de  Bampton  14/.  16s. 

for  37  days. 
Hertfordshire.     Walter  atte  Lee  and  John  Westwycombe  14/.  16s. 

for  37  days. 
Middlesex.     Nicholas    de    Exton    and    Henry    Frowyk    14/.    for 

35  days. 
Kent.     Robert  de  Passhele   and  Arnald   Seint  Leger   15/.    12s. 

for  39  days. 
Surrey.     John  Kyngesfold  and  William  Melbourne  14/.  16s.  for 

37  days. 
Sussex.     John  Seyntcler  and  Roger  Dalyngrugge   14/.   16s.  for 

37  da37s. 
Cambridgeshire.     John  Colville  and  Baldwin  Seint  George  15/.  12s. 

for  39  days. 
Huntingdonshire.     John  Harwedon  and  John  Herlyngton  15/.  12s. 

for  39  days. 
Wiltesir.     Robert  de  la  Mare  and  Thomas  Hungerford  16/.  8s. 

for  41  days. 
The  county  of  Suthampton.     Theobald  de  Gorges  and  Maurice 

de  Bruyn  15/.  12s.  for  39  days. 
Somerset.     John  de  la  Mare  and  Robert  James  16/.  8s.  for  41 

days. 
Dorset.     John  Hamely  and  Thomas  Blount  16/.  8s.  for  41  days. 


51  EDWARD  III.  537 


1377.  Membrane  I2d — cont. 

Norffolk.     Hamon  de  Felton  and  Stephen  de  Halys  16/.  85.  for 

41  days.  " 
Suffolk.     Andrew  de  Cavendissh  and  John  de  Hulveston  16/.  8s. 

for  41  days. 
Devon.    William   Asthorp   and  Thomas  Courtenay   18/.   for  45 

days. 
Cornwall.     William   fitz    Wauter  and  William  Lanbron  20/.   8s. 

for  51  days. 
[Ibid.  p.  311.]* 

March  2.         To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Newcastle  upon  Tyne.     Order  to  cause 
Westminster.  Thomas  del  Chambre  and  John  Howel  burgesses  at  the  said  parliament 
to  have  of  the  commonalty  of  that  town  10/.  4s.  for  their  expenses, 
namely  2s.  a  day  each  for  51  days. 
[Ibid.  p.  313.] 
The  following  have  the  like  writs  : 

Karliol.     Richard  de  Denton  and  John  de  Burgh  citizens  10/.  4s. 

for  51  days. 
Notyngham.     Robert   Germavn   and   William   Capper   burgesses 

8/.  12s.  for  43  days. 
Derby.     William  Groos  and  John  de  Berde   burgesses   8/.   12s. 

for  43  days. 
Warrewyk.     William   Hopkyns   and  Robert   Waldene  burgesses 

8/.  4s.  for  41  days. 
Norhampton.     John  Malpas  and  Richard  Deye  burgesses  11.  16s. 

for  39  days. 
Stafford.     Robert  del  Mersshe  and  Henry  Prest  burgesses  8/.  12s. 

for  43  days. 
Leoministre.     William  de  Salesbury  and  John  Bradeford  burgesses 

9/.  for  45  days. 
Oxford.     Richard  de  Garston  and  William  Dagevylle  burgesses 

11.  16s.  for  39  days. 
Walyngford.     Thomas  Beneshef  and  Henry  de  Redyng  burgesses 

11.  16s.  for  39  days. 
Guldeford.     Henry    Colas    and    Robert    Chysenhale    burgesses 

11.  8s.  for  37  days. 
Wilton.     Thomas    Cuttyng    and    Thomas    Wysdom    burgesses 

8/.  4s.  for  41  days. 
Portesmouth.     Richard    Abraham    and    John    Cosshe    burgesses 
11.  16s.  for  39  days. 
[Ibid.] 

Membrane  lid. 

Writing  of  John  de  Burgh  the  father  knight,  granting  to  Sir  William 
Wyngefeld,  Sir  Richard  Waldcgravc,  Sir  John  Dengayne,  Sir  John 
Hulleston,  Robert  de  Asshefeld,  Robert  de  Kedyngton,  Geoffrey 
Hunden,  John  de  Brunne  of  Wyvelyngham,  Thomas  Sewale,  John 
de  Styuecle,  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  the  father  and  Nicholas  de  Styuecle 
the  son,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  100/.  to  be  taken  at 
Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  manor  of  Kirthelyngton 
and  of  all  the  grantor's  lands  in  Notynghamshirc,  with  power  to 
distrain  for  arrears  notwithstanding  any  law  or  statute  made  to  the 
contrary  that  a  man  may  not  bring  into  one  county  a  distress  taken 


CALENDAR  (»!•'  CLOSK  ROLLS. 


1.177.  Membrane  Lid — cont. 

in  another  :  and  he  has  paid  them  20*.  in  name  of  seisin.  Witnesses  : 
Sir  William  Bioigne,  William  de  Pappeworth,  Thomaa  Torell,  .lames 
de  Granoeetre,  Thomaa  Dengayne,  William  Woofi  (Wolf).  Dated 
Kirtlyngton,  Monday  after  St.  Gregory  the  Pope  51  Edward  III. 
French. 

Writ  tag  of  John  de  Burgh  t  ho  father  knight .  granting  to  Sir  William 
Wyngfeld,  Sir  Richard  Waldegrave,  Sir  John  Dengayne,  Sir  John 
Bailee  ton,  Roberl  de  Asshefeld,  Robert  de  Kedyngton,  Geoffrey 
II linden.  John  de  Brunne  of  Wyvelyngham,  Thomas  Sewale,  John  de 
Styueele,  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  the  father  and  Nicholas  de  Styucclc 

the  BOn,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  B  yearly  rent  of  100/.  to  be  taken  at 
E!aster  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  his  manors  of  Bolton 
upon  Dyrne,  Swynton  and  Barneburgh  co.  York,  with  power  to  distrain 
for  arrears  [as  in  the  last)  ;    and  he  has  paid  them  20.9.  in  name  of 

-in.  Witnesses  (as  the  last).  Dated  Bolton  aforesaid,  Monday 
after  St.  Gregory  the  Tope  51  Edward  I  IT.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings  in  the 
chancery  at  Westminster,  25  April. 

April  4.  Joan  wife  of  Master  John  Bray  the  king's  physician  is  sent  to  the 

Westminster,  abbess  and  convent  of  Shaft birs,  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in 

their   house    as   Juliana    Spenser   deceased   had   by  command  of  the 

king  or  his  forefathers.  By  p.s.  [31379.] 

Writing  of  John  Lovell  knight,  being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty 
to  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the 
manor  and  advowson  of  Conede  co.  Salop.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Roger 
Lestraunge  lord  of  Knokyn,  Sir  Nicholas  Burnell,  Sir  Richard  Peshale 
knights,  Adam  Peshale,  Thomas  Glaseleye.  Dated  22  November 
50  Edward  III.     French. 

Indenture  made  between  Richard  earl  of  Arundell  and  Surrey  and 
Sir  John  Lovell,  witnessing  a  grant  made  by  Sir  John  to  the  said  earl 
and  his  heirs  of  a  yearly  rent  of  50?.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and 
Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  manor  of  Elcombe  co.  Wiltesir, 
upon  condition  that  the  same  shall  remain  in  suspense  so  long  as  the 
earl,  his  heirs  or  assigns,  being  tenants  of  the  manor  of  Conede  co.  Salop, 
shall  hold  the  said  manor  and  every  parcel  of  the  same  whereof  the 
carl  was  this  day  seised  without  being  impleaded  by  Sir  John's  heirs 
by  any  action  or  title  earlier  than  this  date  whereby  the  said  manor 
or  parcel  thereof  shall  be  recovered  in  the  king's  court,  provided 
always  that  if  after  such  recovery  the  earl,  his  heirs  or  assigns  or  their 
heirs,  shall  be  restored  to  the  said  manor  by  writ  of  error,  attaint  or 
otherwise  at  their  suit,  so  that  they  be  restored  to  their  former  estate 
or  have  judgment  so  to  be,  the  said  annuity  shall  cease  until  a  later 
recovery  by  judgment  by  Sir  John's  heirs  ;  the  said  John  grants  power 
to  distrain  for  arrears  thereof,  and  for  greater  security  has  paid  4d. 
to  the  earl  in  name  of  seisin  apon  the  condition  aforesaid.  Dated 
London,  22  November  50  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writing  and 
indenture  by  the  said  John,  2  May  this  year. 

May  4.  Henry  Sturmy,  Thomas  de  Shardelowe  of  Dertford  and  John  de 

Westminster.  Tyndale  to  Master  Nicholas  de  Chaddesden  clerk.     Joint  and  several 


51    EDWARD    III. 


530 


1377. 


Membrane  lid — cont. 


recognisance  for  1.000  marks,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  their  lands  and  chattels  in  Wiltesir,  Kent,  Norhamptonshirc  etc. 

Membrane  lOd. 

Writing  of  John  de  Burgh  the  father  knight,  granting  to  Sir  William 
Wyngefeld,  Sir  Richard  Waldegrave,  Sir  John  Dengayne,  Sir  John 
Hulleston,  Robert  de  Asshefeld,  Robert  de  Kedyngton,  Geoffrey 
de  Hunden,  John  de  Brunne  of  Wyvelynghamj  Thomas  Sewale,  John 
de  Styuecle,  Nicholas  de  Styuecle  the  father  and  Nicholas  de  Styuecle 
the  son,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly  rent  of  1001.  to  be  taken  at 
Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even  portions  of  the  manor  of  Brynne  co. 
York,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  notwithstanding  any  law  or 
.statute  to  the  contrary  that  a  man  may  not  bring  into  one  county  a 
distress  taken  in  another  ;  and  he  has  paid  them  20.?.  in  name  of  seisin. 
Witnesses :  Sir  William  Moigne.  William  de  Papeworth,  Thomas 
Torell,  James  de  Grancestre,  Thomas  Dengayne,  William  Wolf.  Dated 
Brynne,  Monday  after  St.  Gregory  the  Pope  51  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  25  April. 

April  24.         William  Prest  the  king's  serjeant  is  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent 

Windsor,      of  Milton  co.  Dorset,  to  take  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house 

as   Andrew  de  Lespicerye   in   his   life  time  had   there  at  the  king's 

command.  By  p.s.  [31401.] 

Writing  of  John  Bussard  of  Coppecote,  giving  to  Richard 
Champernoun  lord  of  Aston  Rohant,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly 
rent  of  40.9.  to  be  taken  at  Michaelmas  of  all  the  said  John's  lands 
in  Coppecote  which  he  has  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  Thomas  atte  Hethe 
knight,  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  in  name  of  seisin  he 
has  in  presence  of  William  Mercher  and  Hugh  Croftes  paid  to  the 
said  Richard  one  groat  (gossum)  of  English  money.  Witnesses  : 
Richard  Ropple,  William  atte  Lithe,  John  Tannere,  John  Shorberd. 
Dated  Aston  Rohant,  Wednesday  after  the  Purification  51  Edward  III. 

Writing  of  John  Bussard  of  Coppecote,  being  a  quitclaim  to  Richard 
Champernoun  lord  of  Aston  Rohant,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  common 
of  pasture  which  the  said  John  has  or  majr  have  in  Stapenhilmede  and 
Shertmede  in  the  town  of  Aston  Rohant.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Robert 
Simeon  knight,  John  Kejmesham,  Richard  Ropple,  William  atte 
Lithe,  John  Tannere.  Dated  Aston  Rohant,  15  January 
50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  of  the  foregoing  writings,  28  April 
this  year. 

*April  30.        Dennis  Fauconer   the   king's  serjeant  is  with  the  assent  of  Hugh 

Sheen.        de  Ellerbek  sent  to  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Oseneye,  to  have  for 

life  a  set  maintenance  of  that  house  which  the  said  Hugh  has  there  at 

the  king's  command.  By  p.s.  [31371.] 

May  1.  I  high  Kympton  of  Eyton  to  John  Rodlond  clerk.  Edmund  Mareschall 

Westminster,  and  Richard  Albon  of  Dunstaple.     Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to 

*  The  date  of  the  warrant  ia  Sheen,  March  30.  A  month  later  the  king  was 
at  Windsor. 


I  LLENDAR  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


137T.  Mcmbram    I  Or/ — con/. 

be    levied,    in   default    of    payment,    of   bis    lands   and   ohattela   in 
!'••  dfordshire. 

April  :  l         Nicholas  de  Audele  knight  to  the  king.     Eteoognisanoe  for  5,000f. 
Westminster,  to  be  levied  etc.  in  Salop. 

Memorandum  oi  defeasance,  upon  condition  that  the  Baid  Nicholas 
shall  abide  the  judgment  and  order  of  the  king  and  oounoil  ooncerning 

all    things    which   affect    the   jurisdictions   and   claims   of   the   king,   as 

guardian  of  the  heir  of  John  carl  of  Pembroke  by  reason  of  his  nonage, 

and    of    the    said    Nicholas    respectively    within    the    precinct    of    the 

lordship  of  Kemoys,  upon  warning  given  to  the  said  Nicholas  to  be 

before   the  king  and  council   in   order  to  shew  and  declare   what  ho 
Will  for  saving  of  his  right  in  that   behalf. 

Cancelled,  as  appears  in  the  foregoing  memorandum. 

May  1.  William   Ncweman  of  Cookhain  to  the  prior  and  convent  of  the 

W<  •  iter.  Charterhouse  London.  Recognisance  for  100  marks,  to  be  levied  etc. 
in  Berkshire. 

Cancelled  on  jxiymcnt,  acknowledged  by  the  said  prior. 

Membrane  9d. 

May  2!>.         Geoffrey  Warde  one  of  the  king's  palfreymen  is  sent  to  the  abbot 

Sheen.        of  St.  John  Ooloestre,  to  have  for  life  such  maintenance  in  that  house 

as  Adam  Charnak  in  his  life  time  had  there  at  the  king's  command. 

By  p.s.  [31455.] 

May  22.  To  the  sheriff  of  Norhampton.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas 

Westminster.  Guide  of  Hulcote,  John  Forster  of  Touecestre,  John  Kyd  of  Touecestre 
and  William  de  Roudon  to  stay  altogether  the  further  execution  of 
the  king's  writ  against  William  Freynche  of  Pateshull  '  bocher  '  ;  as 
at  the  petition  of  Henry  Hogges  vicar  of  a  mediety  of  Pateshull  church, 
averring  that  the  defendant  threatened  him,  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  sheriff  to  cause  the  defendant  to  come  before  him,  and  to  compel 
him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid 
upon  them  for  which  the  sheriff  would  answer,  would  mainpern  that 
he  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  said  vicar,  and 
if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol,  there  to 
be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  but  the  said 
Thomas  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  401. 

April  24.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  de  Outhorp , 
Westminster.  John  de  Wykford,  Simon  Levelaunce  and  John  de  Feriby  of  Barton 
of  Lincolnshire  to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ 
against  Walter  de  Askeby  clerk  ;  as  at  the  suit  of  Nicholas  atte  Grene 
and  William  Chisilden,  averring  that  the  said  Walter  threatened 
them  in  life  and  limbs,  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause 
him  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors 
who  would  mainpern  that  he  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or 
harm  to  the  complainants  ;  but  the  said  John  and  the  others,  appearing 
in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain 
of  40Z. 


51    EDWARD    III.  541 


1377.  Membrane  9d — cont. 

April  25.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  or  to  his 
Westminster,  lieutenant  there.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Sewale  of  Essex, 
Richard  Waleys,  John  Morewell  of  Suffolk  and  William  Paw  of 
Lincolnshire  to  set  free  Robert  Mart  '  maryner,'  who  is  detained  in 
the  Tower  prison  for  taking  and  earning  away  certain  goods  and 
merchandise  out  of  a  tarit  of  Genoa  (Janua)  of  the  king's  friendship 
contrary  to  the  truce  between  the  king  and  them  of  Genoa  ;  as  the 
said  John  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  100/.  to  have  the  prisoner's  body  before 
the  king  and  council  whenever  they  shall  be  warned,  in  order  to  answer 
concerning  the  premises,  and  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  by  advice  of 
the  council  be  appointed.  By  C. 

June  3.  John  Michel  citizen  and  vintner  of  London  to  Katherine  de  la  Pole. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  40/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands 
and  chattels  in  the  city  of  London. 

Indenture  of  accord  made  between  William  de  Brantyngham  of  the 
one  part  and  Robert  atte  Selere  and  Lora  his  wife  of  the  other  part, 
to  wit  that  before  the  quinzaine  of  Midsummer  next  by  fine  in  the 
king's  court  at  Westminster  the  said  Robert  and  Lora  shall  make 
a  grant  and  feoffment  with  warranty  to  the  said  William  in  fee  simple 
of  all  the  lands,  rents  and  services  which  they  have  in  the  towns  of 
Woldham  and  Burgham  co.  Kent,  rendering  to  the  said  Robert  and 
Lora  for  life  20/.  a  year  at  Christmas  and  Midsummer  by  even  portions  ; 
that  within  one  month  after  the  said  fine  levied  the  said  William 
shall  grant  to  the  said  Robert  and  Lora  for  life  the  hall  with  the 
chambers  annexed,  a  kitchen,  a  bakehouse,  a  dovecot,  a  stable  for 
two  horses  and  the  gardens  which  are  within  the  capital  messuage  with 
free  ingress  and  egress,  and  to  have  their  poultry  within  the  said 
messuage  all  the  year  and  in  the  fields  after  cutting  and  carrying  of 
the  corn,  and  their  game  and  sport  going,  fishing  and  hunting 
over  all  the  lands  aforesaid  ;  that  the  said  William  shall  at  his  own 
costs  find  roofing  for  the  houses  so  granted  to  the  said  Robert 
and  Lora,  who  shall  keep  the  same  without  waste  and  destruction  ; 
and  that  the  said  Robert  and  Lora  shall  discharge  the  premises  of 
all  statutes  merchant  and  of  the  staple,  all  recognisances,  annuities, 
feoffments  and  other  charges  until  the  quinzaine  of  St.  John  next ; 
and  covenant  for  defeasance  of  a  recognisance  for  160/.  by  the  said 
William  made  in  chancery,  upon  condition  that  he  shall  yearly  pay 
the  said  rent,  and  shall  within  a  month  after  the  said  fine  levied  make 
to  the  said  Robert  and  Lora  the  grants  aforesaid  ;  also  of  a  recognisance 
for  20/.  by  the  said  Robert  made  to  the  said  William,  upon  condition 
that  the  said  Robert  and  Lora  shall  be  ready  at  his  costs  to  levy  the 
aforesaid  fine.      Dated  Woldham,   6    June  51   Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  said  William  and  Robert, 
6  June. 

June  5.  William    Brantyngham    to    Robert   atte  Selere.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  160/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his  lands  and  chattels 
in  Kent. 

Robert  atte  Selere  to  William  Brantyngham.  Recognisance  for  20/., 
to  be  levied  etc.  (as  the  last). 


Ml  I   LLENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1877.  Membronn  M — rout. 

M      -  To  the  sheriffa  of  London.      Order  to  stay  altogether  the  exeoution 

minster,  of  the  king's  writ  against  l\<>  Fitzwaryn  knight,  Richard  Cherlton, 
Robert  Warner,  John  Panyter,  Thomas  Shank,  Robert  Bakere,  John 
Chamberleyn,  John  Plumbere,  John  Barton,  Thomas  Qele,  William 
Berronr,  John  Davy,  John  Goons,  John  atte  Forde,  John  Pryns  of 
Caundel,  John  Croft,  Thomas  Bfede,  and  Eustace  servant  of  Ivo 
Kit/.warvii  ;  as  at  the  request  of  Ralph  bishop  <>f  Salisbury,  signifying 
by  his  tetters  patent  that  the  said  Ivo  and  the  others  01  his  diocese 
were  by  his  authority  as  ordinary  exeommunicated  for  manifest 
contumacies  and  would  not  be  justified  by  ecclesiastical  censures, 
the  kiiiLr  by  writ  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  justify  them  by  their  bodies 
according  to  the  custom  of  England  until  holy  church  should  be 
contented  for  the  contempt  and  wrong  by  them  done  ;  and  now 
the  king  has  learned  that  they  have  appealed  to  the  see  of  Rome  from 
that  sentence  as  being  unjust  and  for  protection  of  the  court  of 
Canterbury,  and  arc  purposing  to  prosecute  the  business  of  their 
apnea]  as  appears  by  notarial  instruments  produced  in  chancery, 
and  Master  John  Ditton  their  proctor  has  made  oath  that  he  will 
prosecute  the  same. 

The  like  to  the  sheriff  of  Somerset  and  the  sheriff  of  Dorset. 

Writing  of  John  de  Lakyngheth,  granting  to  John  son  of  Hugh 
Fastolf,  5largery  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Margery's  body 
a  yearly  rent  of  20/.  to  be  taken  at  Easter  and  Michaelmas  by  even 
portions  of  the  manors  of  Holbroke  and  Tatyngeston  and  of  all  the 
grantor's  lands  in  Brantham.  with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears ;  and 
for  greater  security  he  has  put  them  in  seisin  thereof  by  payment  of 
I2d.  Proviso  that  neither  the  grantor  nor  his  heirs  shall  by  reason 
of  this  writing  be  bound  to  answer  a  writ  de  annuo  redditu,  but  shall 
be  altogether  discharged  of  such  action,  and  the  said  rent  shall  be 
levied  of  the  manors  and  lands  above  mentioned  ;  and  that  if  the 
said  Margery  shall  die  without  issue  the  said  rent  shall  cease  after 
her  death  and  the  death  of  her  said  husband.  Dated  Gippewich, 
Wednesday  after  Trinity  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  June. 

Membrane  8d. 

May  7.  Bernard  Brocas  knight  to  Walter  Walssh.     Recognisance  for  160 

Westminster,  marks  payable  by  instalments  ;    to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment, 
of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  the  county  of  Suthampton. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 

♦March  7.  To  the  abbot  and  convent  of  Welbek  co.  Notyngham.  Order, 
Sheen.  upon  the  return  of  letters  by  them  made  to  John  de  Kyngeston  the 
king's  Serjeant  concerning  a  set  maintenance  for  life  in  their  house 
which  he  has  at  the  king's  request,  to  grant  such  maintenance  for  life 
to  Agnes  de  Langele  '  lavender  '  one  of  the  king's  laundresses,  making 
and  delivering  to  her  other  letters  under  the  common  seal  of  their  house 
which  shall  contain  mention  of  that  maintenance,  and  writing  again 
by  the  bearer  what  they  will  do  at  this  request  ;  as  with  the  assent 
and  at  the  prayer  of  the  said  John  the  king  has  granted  that 
maintenance  to  the  said  Agnes  for  life.  By  p.s.  [31430.] 

*  The  date  of  the  warrant  is  May  7. 


51    EDWARD    III. 


543 


1377. 


Membrane  Sd — cont. 


May  28.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bedford.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Geoffrey 

Westminster.  Masoim  of  Ware,  by  mainprise  of  William  de  Seynt  (riles  of  Holburne, 
Robert  Barbour  of  Ware,  William  Taillour  of  Holburne  and  Richard 
Webbe  of  Holburne  to  stay  the  exigents  against  the  said  Geoffrey 
and  the  taking  of  his  body,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  of 
the  Bench  the  day  a  writ  de  judicio  against  him  at  the  suit  of  Peter 
Belgrave  parson  of  Blomham  is  returnable  ;  as  his  petition  shews 
that  the  said  parson  is  impleading  him  before  the  said  justices  to 
render  account  for  the  time  that  he  was  receiver  of  the  plaintiff's 
moneys,  that  by  writ  de  judicio  he  is  put  in  exigents  in  Bedfordshire 
to  be  outlawed  for  that  he  came  not  before  the  said  justices  to  answer 
touching  the  premises,  and  that  he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right 
in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  William  and  the  others  have  mainperned 
in  chancery  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  the  said  Geoffrey  before  the 
said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

April  14.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Raymond  Pylryn, 
Westminster.  Berengarius  Ferrer,  Guy  de  Portico  and  Peter  Gracianus  of  the  city 
of  London  to  stay  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  against  Peter  Ruspy 
clerk  ;  as  upon  information  received  that  the  said  clerk  purposed 
to  pass  to  foreign  parts  in  order  to  prosecute  many  things  to  the 
prejudice  of  the  king  and  many  of  his  people,  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  sheriffs  to  cause  him  to  come  before  them,  and  to  compel  him 
to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon 
them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would  answer,  would  mainpern  that  he 
should  not  depart  to  any  foreign  parts  without  the  king's  special 
licence,  nor  there  prosecute  aught  or  cause  aught  to  be  prosecuted 
or  attempted  which  might  tend  to  contempt  or  prejudice  of  the  king 
or  hurt  of  the  people,  nor  send  any  thither  for  the  purpose,  and  if  he 
should  refuse,  to  commit  him  to  prison  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody 
until  he  would  willingly  so  do,  certifying  in  chancery  the  security  so 
taken  and  sending  again  that  writ  ;  but  the  said  Raymond  and  the 
others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid 
under  a  pain  of  40/. 

May  12.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed 

Westminster,  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  to  stay  altogether  the  further 
making  of  any  process  whatsoever  before  the  king  for  the  issues  of  a 
tenement  in  Fletstrete  in  the  suburb  of  London  which  was  lately  of 
Nicholas  Sururgien,  otherwise  called  Nicholas  Leche  deceased,  late 
tenant  in  burgage  of  the  king's  forefather,  not  demanding  or  levying 
such  issues  to  the  king's  use  or  the  use  of  John  de  Foxle  knight ;  as 
lately  by  letters  patent  the  king  gave  to  the  said  John  and  his  heirs 
that  tenement  which  pertained  to  the  king  as  an  escheat  for  that  the 
said  Nicholas  died  without  an  heir,  as  is  found  by  inquisition  taken 
before  Adam  de  Bury  late  mayor  of  the  city  of  London  and  escheator 
therein,  and  after  granted  him  all  the  issues  thereof  to  the  king  per- 
taining ;  and  the  said  John  appearing  in  person  in  chancery  has 
acknowledged  that  he  is  contented  of  the  said  issues. 


April  18.         To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John   Marvyle 

Westminster,  of  London.  William  Athelyngton,  John  Sutton  and  William  (Joule  of 

the  county  of  Suthampton  t<>  stay  altogether  the  further  execution 


M4  CALENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1  ">7  7.  Mi  mbram  8d  —cont. 

of  the  king's  writ  againsl  Thomas  Colyngbourne  clerk,  and  if  by  virtue 

thereof  he  lx>  taken,  order  tO  Bel  him  free  from  prison  ;  as  at  the  suit 
of  William  Merton.  averring  that  the  defendant  threatened  him  in 
life  and  limhs.  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sherilTs  to  cause  the  said 
Thomas  to  00006  before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors 
who.  under  a  pain  to  he  by  the  sherilTs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the 
sherilTs  would  answer,  would  mainpern  that  he  should  do  or  procure 
no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  1<>  the  complainant,  and  if  lie  should  refuse, 
to  commit  him  to  Newegate  prison,  there  to  he  kept  in  safe  custody 
until  he  would  willingly  so  do  :  hut  the  said  John  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under 
a  pain  of  20/. 

June  3.  To  the  sheritT  of  [  *].     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Dautre 

\v.  itminster.  clerk  of  Bukinghamshire.  Roger  de  Welford  clerk  of  Northamptonshire, 
John  de  Oton  clerk  of  Xotynghamshire  and  John  Gregge  of  Middlesex 
to  stay  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  writ  against  William 
Denyaa  ( of  |  Charwelton  ;  as  at  the  suit  of  William  Herward,  averring 
that  the  defendant  threatened  him.  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriff 
to  cause  the  defendant  to  come  before  him,  and  to  compel  him  to  find 
mainpernors  who.  under  a  pain  to  he  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them 
for  which  the  sheriff  would  answer,  would  mainpern  that  he  should  do 
or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  complainant,  and  if  he  should 
refuse,  to  take  the  defendant  and  commit  him  to  the  nearest  gaol 
there  to  abide  until  he  would  willingly  so  do  ;  but  the  said  John  and 
the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  as 
aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  20/. 

Charter  of  John  de  Lakyngheth,  granting  to  John  son  of  Hugh 
Fastolf  and  to  Margery  his  wife  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Margery's 
body  the  manors  of  Bentleye,  Langeston,  Playford,  Foxhole,  Couhawe, 
Rendlesham  and  Sholondhalle  in  Naketon  and  the  advowsons  of 
Rendlesham,  Naketon,  Holton  and  Burnt  Wenham,  with  remainder 
for  lack  of  issue  to  Elizabeth  daughter  of  Robert  fitz  Rauf  and  the 
heirs  of  her  body,  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  John  de  Holbroke, 
saving  that  the  grantor  shall  not  be  bound  to  warranty  by  virtue  of 
this  charter.  Dated  Gvppcwich.  Thursday  after  the  octaves  of  Trinity 
51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  8  June. 

May  12.  To  John  de  Cavendissh  and  Thomas  de  Ingelby  justices  appointed 

Westminster,  to  hold  pleas  before  the  king.  Order  to  stay  the  further  making  of 
any  process  for  the  issues  of  a  tenement  in  Fletestrete  late  of  Nicholas 
Surrugien  otherwise  Lcche  (as  above,  last  page). 

MEMBRANE  Id. 

May  5.  William  de    Semer    of    Scardeburghe    to    Adam    Portlewe    clerk. 

Westminster.  Recognisance  for  200/.,  to  be  levied,  in  default  of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 

Writing  of  Sir  Walter  fitz  Wautier  lord  of  Wodeham,  granting  to 
Alpxander  de  la  Garderobe  the  office  of  warrener  everywhere  in  the 


*  The  county  left  blank. 


51    EDWARD    III.  545 


1377.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

said  Walter's  lordship  in  the  town  of  Burnham  co.  Essex,  and  the 
fee  thereof,  taking  for  his  wages  one  quarter  of  wheat  every  eight 
weeks  during  his  life  in  the  manor  of  Burnham  by  the  hands  of  the  said 
Walter's  bailiff  there,  pasture  and  keeping  (custodiam)  for  forty  ewes 
with  the  lord's  ewes  at  le  Redewerde,  pasture  and  keeping  for  40 
ewes  with  the  lord's  ewes  at  Douniswyk,  keeping  and  pasture  for 
three  kine  with  the  lord's  kine,  and  hay  and  pasture  for  one  horse 
of  the  hay  and  pasture  of  the  said  manor,  with  power  to  distrain  therein 
if  his  wages  be  fifteen  days  in  arrear,  or  if  he  be  hindered  of  the  pasture, 
hay  or  keeping  aforesaid.  Dated  Henham  co.  Essex,  1  August 
41  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  May  this  year. 

April  10.  To  H.  bishop  of  Norwych.  Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Folkyngham 
Westminster,  of  Lincolnshire,  Robert  Melton  of  Leycestershire,  Richard  Holm  of 
Yorkshire  and  Edmund  Brudenell  of  Norhamptonshire  to  release 
the  sequestration  by  him  made  in  the  fruits,  rents  and  preventions 
of  John  Fret  on  clerk  at  Corston,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  king  at 
the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next  ;  as  the  king  has  learned  that  Robert 
Prees  is  impleading  the  said  clerk  before  the  king  for  an  alleged  trespass, 
and  that  by  writ  da  judicio  the  king  commanded  the  bishop  to  cause 
the  defendant  to  come  before  the  king  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter  next 
for  that  the  sheriff  of  Norffolk  returned  that  he  was  beneficed  and 
had  no  lay  fee  in  the  sheriff's  bailiwick  whereby  he  might  be  attached, 
by  virtue  whereof  the  bishop  has  sequestrated  the  fruits  etc.  aforesaid, 
purposing  to  keep  them  under  sequestration  until  the  said  day  ;  but 
the  said  John  Folkyngham  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in 
chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of  10  marks  to  have  the 
defendant  at  that  day  before  the  king. 

Writing  of  John  Sepham  of  Shorham  co.  Kent,  giving  with  warranty 
to  William  Neuport  citizen  of  London,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  a  yearly 
rent  of  5  marks  to  be  taken  at  Easter,  Midsummer,  Michaelmas  and 
Christmas  by  even  portions  of  the  said  John's  manor  of  Palestre  and 
all  appurtenances  thereof  in  the  parishes  of  Shorham  and  Otteford, 
with  power  to  distrain  for  arrears  ;  and  in  name  of  seisin  he  has  paid 
the  said  William  40rf.  in  part  payment  of  the  first  term.  Dated 
Shorham,  the  feast  of  St.  Gregory  the  Pope  51  Edward  1 1 1.  Witnesses  : 
Stephen  Edolf,  Thomas  Curteys,  John  Depeden,  Sampson  atte  Bourne, 
Andrew  Morys. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  14  May. 

Writing  of  John  Fairher  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London,  being  a 
quitclaim  to  Nicholas  dc  Carreu  the  elder  of  two  tenements  in  the 
parish  of  St.  Olave  in  the  town  of  Southewerk  co.  Surrey,  and  one 
other  tenement  thereto  attached  in  the  parish  of  St.  Mary  Magdalene, 
all  situate  between  tenements  of  John  Mockyng  towards  the  north, 
John  Burgeys  towards  the  south  and  Alice  Halstede  towards  the  east 
and  the  high  street,  towards  the  west  ;  also  of  another  tenement  in  the 
said  parish  of  St.  Mary  between  tenements  of  Joan  Mounpeliers  towards 
the  north,  the  prior  and  convent  of  the  church  of  St.  Mary  towards 
the  south  and  the  prior  and  convent  of  Lewes  towards  tho  east  and  the 
high  street  towards  the  west ;   also  of  another  tenement  in  the  parish 

Wt.   11824.  OB  :*G 


I   \l. i:\h.\lt    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


137  i .  Mi  rnbrane  Id—cont. 

of  St.  Leonard  Bstchepe  iii  the  oity  of  London  situate  between  tene 
menta  oi  John  Spaldyng  oitizen  of  London  towards  the  west,  Nioholaa 
Lemman   widow    towards   the   east    and   the   prior  and   oonvenl    oi 
Criohirche  towards  the  north  and  the  high  street  towards  the  south, 

and  of  all  other  lands  and  tenements  in  the  city  of   London  and  town 
of  Southwerk   Which   were  of  John    Pairher  deceased.       Dated    London, 

:>1  January  .">i  Edward  III. 
Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  23  May. 

Mi  morandum  that  on  4  May  this  year  William  de  Burst  all  keeper  of 
the  rolls  of  ohancery,  Richard  de  Ravenser  and  Thomas  de  Newenham 
clerks  of  chancery,  were  deputed  k<  epers  of  the  great  seal  in  the  absence 
of  Adam  bishop  of  St.  Davids  then  chancellor,  who  on  that  day  took 
his  journey  towards  Calais  by  the  king's  command  in  order  there  to  treat 
with  envoys  of  France  ;  and  before  noon  the  same  day  at  Westminster 
in  the  privy  chamber  of  the  council  by  the  white  chamber  in 
Westminster  palace,  in  presence  of  John  king  of  Castillo  and  Leon 
and  duke  of  Lancaster,  the  said  chancellor,  Henry  bishop  of  Worcester 
the  treasurer,  Edmund  earl  of  Cantebrigge,  William  lord  de  Latymcre. 
Guy  de  Brienc  and  Nicholas  Carrcu,  the  said  seal  in  a  purse  sealed 
with  the  chancellor's  seal  was  delivered  to  William  de  Burstall  and 
Thomas  de  Newenham,  Richard  de  Ravensere  being  then  afar  off, 
and  they  on  the  morrow  at  Westminster  in  the  great  hall  in  the  court 
(placed)  of  chancery  opened  the  said  purse,  drew'  out  the  seal,  and 
therewith  sealed  charters,  letters  patent  and  writs  ;  and  after,  when 
Richard  de  Ravensere  returned  from  afar,  the  three  keepers  together 
day  by  day  sealed  letters  patent  and  writs. 

[Foedera.] 

Indenture  made  between  Henry  Husee  of  the  one  part  and  John 
Cruys  and  John  Blakebourne  of  the  other  part,  witnessing  a  grant  with 
warranty  to  the  said  John  and  John,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  confirmed 
by  an  oath  of  the  said  Henry  sworn  upon  the  gospels,  of  the  reversion  of 
all  Lands,  rents,  services  and  advowsons  of  churches  in  the  county  of 
Dublin.  Meath  and  Uriel  or  Loueth  in  Ireland,  now  held  for  life  by  John 
(  rophull  knight  by  the  courtesy  of  England  of  the  said  Henry's  heritage 
with  reversion  to  him,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  Cruys  and 
John  Blakebourne  or  some  other  in  their  name  shall  in  the  chancery  of 
England  pay  to  the  said  Henry  or  his  executors  400  marks,  namely 
100  marks  at  Midsummer  next  or  sooner,  100/.  at  Midsummer  following 
or  sooner,  and  100/.  at  Midsummer  following  or  sooner,  not  being 
bound  to  make  such  payments  until  the  said  Henry  or  his  executors 
shall  be  ready  to  make  acquittances  and  enrol  the  same  in  chancery 
at  the  cost  of  the  said  John  and  John,  but  that  if  such  payments  be 
not  made,  provided  acquittances  be  made  and  enrolled  as  aforesaid 
by  the  said  Henry  if  alive  at  the  time  of  payment,  and  if  certificate 
thereof  may  not  be  made  in  any  court  of  the  king  in  Ireland  by  the 
record  aforesaid  this  grant  shall  be  void,  the  part  of  this  indenture 
remaining  with  the  said  John  and  John  shall  be  given  up,  and  the 
enrolment  thereof  in  chancery  made  at  their  request  shall  be  cancelled. 
Covenant  that  if  the  said  John  Crophull  die  before  he  shall  have  attorned 
tenant  to  John  Cruys  and  John  Blakebourne,  the  said  Henry  shall 
make  a  feoffment  of  the  premises  to  them  and  their  heirs  upon  the 
conditions  aforesaid,  that  when  the  said  payments  be  fully  made  he 


51    EDWARD    III.  547 


1377.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

shall  by  writing  at  their  cost  enrolled  in  chancery  confirm  their  estate 
therein  without  condition,  that  the  acquittances  shall  likewise  be 
enrolled  at  his  request,  and  that  any  averment  made  that  any  such 
sums  were  paid  in  any  other  place  save  the  chancery  aforesaid  shall 
be  null  and  void.     Dated  16  June  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  17  June. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  the  uncle  knight,  being  a  quit- 
claim to  Sir  John  Dyn  parson  of  St.  Michael  Long  Stretton  and  Sir 
Walter  de  Preston  chaplain  and  to  their  heirs  of  the  manor  of  Westhale 
co.  Suffolch.     Dated  18  June  51  Edward  III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  18  June. 


o 


Membrane  Qd. 

May  13.  To  the  sheriff  of  Cantebrigge.     Order  by  mainprise  of  John  Spicer 

Westminster,  of  Bedeford,  and  John  Warde  of  Bedeford  to  stay  the  taking  of  the 
body  of  Thomas  Freman,  bringing  this  writ  before  the  justices  at 
Westminster  ;  as  by  writ  de  judicio  the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take 
the  said  Thomas  so  as  to  have  him  before  the  said  justices  in  the 
octaves  of  Trinity  next  to  answer  John  Broghton  concerning  an  alleged 
debt  of  20/.,  and  he  has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing  that 
he  is  ready  to  answer  and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said 
John  Spicer  and  John  Warde.  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  20/.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said 
justices  at  the  day  named. 

May  12.  To   the   sheriff   of   Cantebrigge.     Order   by   mainprise   of   Richard 

Westminster.  Hemyngburgh  of  Yorkshire,  John  Folkyngham  the  younger  and 
Roger  de  Messyngham  of  Lincolnshire  and  Richard  Trumpyngton 
to  stay  the  taking  of  the  body  of  John  Giboun  the  younger,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  at  Westminster  ;  as  by  writ  de  judicio 
the  king  ordered  the  sheriff  to  take  him  so  as  to  have  him  before  the 
said  justices  in  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  next  to  answer  Roger  Herleston 
and  William  Beteman  concerning  an  alleged  debt  of  100?.,  and  he 
has  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing  that  he  is  ready  so  to  answer 
and  stand  to  right  in  all  things  ;  and  the  said  Richard  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  under  a  pain  of 
100s.  to  have  his  body  before  the  said  justices  at  the  day  named. 

April  30.  To  the  steward  and  sheriff  of  Pembroke.  Order  to  stay  until 
Westminster,  furthei  order  the  publication  of  outlawries  and  exigents  whatsoever 
against  Nicholas  de  Audele  knight  and  against  Lewis  ap  Owavn. 
John  Doneuold  and  William  Podmore  or  any  of  them  made  and 
prosecuted  in  the  county  of  Pembroke  before  the  said  steward  and 
sheriff  by  reason  only  of  felonies  and  trespasses  whatsoever;  as 
after  the  death  of  John  de  Hastynges  last  earl  of  Pembroke  tenant, 
in  chief  debate  and  controversy  arose  between  the  steward  and  sheriff 
and  other  the  king's  ministers  of  the  county  of  Pembroke,  which  is 
in  the  king's  hand  by  reason  of  the  nonage  of  the  said  earl's  heir 
for  preservation  of  the  said  heir's  right  during  his  nonage,  and  the 
said  Nicholas  being  lord  of  Kemoya  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  touching 
a  claim  to  certain  jurisdictions  which  the  said  Nicholas  and  Elizabeth 
claim  to  use  and  enjoy  within  their  liberty  of  Kemoys  which  is  in 


I   ILENDAR    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1377.  Membrcme  tod—tottf. 

the  said  county;  and  having  Bet  forth  on  his  side  before  the  oonnoi] 
bis  evidenoes  oonoerning  his  right,   the  said  Nicholas  has  submitted 

himself  wholly  t<»  the  award  of  the  council  in  thai  behalf,  and  moreover 
by  ■  reoogniaanoe  made  in  chancery  has  hound  himself  in  5,000/. 
payable  to  the  king  in  ease  he  shall  not  stand  to  such  award,  praying 

the  king  for  a  stay  of  the  outlawries  and  exigents  aforesaid  as  well 
againai  himself  as  against  the  said  Lewis,  John  and  William  ;  and 
in  considerat  ion  of  his  submission,  and  for  that  if  proceeding  were  to 
be  taken  against  them  herein  with  the  rigour  of  justice  the  said 
Nicholas  may  not  furnish  his  castle  of  Neuport  in  Kemoys  with 
victuals,  armour  and  other  things  needful  against  attacks  of  the 
enemy  if  any  shall  invade  those  parts,  and  there  abide  upon  the  safe- 
guard thereof  as  the  king  by  writ  has  commanded  him  to  do,  it  is  the 
king's  will  to  grant   tin    said   prayers.  By  the  great  council. 

April  13.  To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.  Prohibition  to  the  bailiffs  of 
:ininster.  Suthampton  against  holding  a  plea  in  the  king's  court  of  that  town 
between  Nicholas  son  of  John  Taverner,  John  Mondy  and  Isabel 
his  wife  and  Roger  Mascal  and  Felicia  his  wife  plaintiffs  and  Thomas 
Havwode.  Clemence  his  wife  and  John  son  of  the  said  Thomas  tenants 
concerning  a  messuage;  and  appurtenances  in  Suthampton  which 
the  plaintiffs  claim  by  writ  of  right,  unless  there  shall  be  a  wager  of 
battle  thereupon  ;  as  Cicely  abbess  of  Wherewell,  who  according 
to  the  statute  provided  by  common  counsel  of  the  realm  was  in  that 
cause  admitted  to  defend  her  right  and  the  rights  of  her  church  of  St. 
Cross  Wherewell  therein  for  that  the  defendants  made  default,  being 
tenants  for  life  in  right  of  the  abbess  of  the  messuage  sued  for,  has 
put  herself  upon  the  great  assize,  craving  a  recognition  whether  she  in 
right  of  her  church  or  the  plaintiffs  in  right  of  the  said  Nicholas, 
Ds  ibel  and   Felicia  have  the  better  right  in  the  premises. 

U  treh  8.  To  the  sheriff  of  Stafford.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  Ralph 
(minster,  de  Daventre  clerk  of  the  diocese  of  London,  by  mainprise  of  Richard  de 
Grafton,  John  Pride.  Thomas  de  Parys  and  Hugh  de  Acton  of  Salop 
to  set  him  free  from  prison,  bringing  his  writ  before  the  king  in 
chancery  ;  as  at  the  information  of  W.  bishop  of  London,  signifying 
that  the  said  Ralph  is  by  the  bishop's  authority  as  ordinary  excom- 
municated for  contumacy  and  will  not  be  justified  by  ecclesiastical 
censure,  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriff  to  justify  him  according 
to  the  custom  of  England  until  holy  church  should  be  contented 
for  the  contempt  and  WTong  by  him  done  ;  but  the  said  Ralph  made 
a  lawful  appeal  to  the  see  of  Rome  and  for  protection  of  the  court  of 
Canterbury  from  that  sentence  as  unjust,  as  appears  by  notarial 
instrument  produced  in  chancery,  and  has  now  prayed  the  king  to 
be  set  free,  shewing  that  by  colour  of  the  king's  command  he  is 
imprisoned  in  Stafford  prison  ;  and  it  is  the  king's  will  that  he  should 
not  be  debarred  by  force  (via)  from  prosecuting  his  appeal  in  form 
of  law,  especially  as  such  writ  proceeds  of  the  king's  favour,  and 
the  estate  of  the  appellant  ought  to  be  unimpaired  :  and  the  said 
Richard  and  the  others  have  mainperned  in  chancery  body  for  body 
to  have  him  before  the  king  in  chancery  in  the  quinzaine  of  Easter, 
which  day  the  king  has  given  to  the  bishop,  in  order  to  stand  to  right 
in  the  premises,  and  further  to  do  and  receive  what  the  court  shall 
determine. 


51    EDWARD    III.  549 


1377.  Membrane  8d—cont. 

Writing  of  Robert  de  Swyllyngton  the  uncle  knight,  being  a  quit- 
claim  to  Simon  de  Burgh,  Thomas  Newe  parson  of  Godmersham, 
John  Okebourne  parson  of  Chedyngston  and  Philip  Apethorp  parson 
of  Houghton,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  manor  of  Wvmpole  and  all 
other  lands,  rents  and  services  in  the  towns  of  Wvmpole.  Aruvngton, 
Graudene,  Malketon,  Barneton  and  Everisdone  co.  Cantebrigge. 
Dated  1  June  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  9  June. 

Charter  of  Thomas  de  Kynewardesle  and  John  Lependen,  giving 
to  Ralph  de  Codyngton  and  Amy  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  of  their 
bodies  the  whole  manor  of  Codyngton  with  wards,  marriages,  reliefs, 
heriots,  escheats,  rents  and  services  of  free  tenants  and  neifs  and  all 
other  liberties  thereto  belonging,  and  all  other  lands  etc.  in  the  town 
and  parish  of  Codyngton  which  the  grantors  had  by  his  gift  and 
feoffment,  with  remainder  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  the  right  heirs  of 
the  said  Ealph.  Witnesses  :  John  Bampton,  James  Lacy,  Lawrence 
Codyngton,  Richard  Salyng,  John  Walyngton,  John  Olyver.  Dated 
Codyngton,  Thursday  the  feast  of  St.  Barnabas  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  June. 

Charter  of  Ralph  de  Codyngton,  giving  with  warranty  to  Thomas 
Kynwardesle  and  John  Lependen,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  whole 
manor  of  Codyngton  etc.  (as  the  last),  and  all  other  lands  etc.  which 
the  said  Ralph  has  in  the  town  or  parish  of  Codyngton.  Witnesses 
(as  the  last).  Dated  Codyngton,  Monday  in  Whitsun  week 
51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  16  June. 

Membrane  5d. 

Charter  indented  of  John  de  Lakenheth  (Lakyngheth),  granting  to 
Robert  fitz  Rauf  and  to  his  assigns  during  his  life  the  manors  of  Hol- 
broke  and  Tatyngeston,  all  his  lands  in  Brantham,  the  advowson  of 
Holbroke,Tatyngeston,  Boclesham  and  Freston  churches  and  of  Holbroke 
chapel,  with  remainder  after  her  father's  death  to  Elizabeth  daughter 
of  the  said  Robert  and  the  heirs  of  her  body,  remainder  for  lack  of 
such  issue  to  Margery  daughter  of  John  de  Holbroke  and  the  heirs 
of  her  body,  remainder  to  the  right  heirs  of  John  de  Holbroke,  saving 
that  the  grantor  nor  his  heirs  shall  not  by  these  presents  be  bound 
to  warranty  of  the  premises.  Dated  Gippevvich,  Thursday  after 
the  octaves  of  Trinity  51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   10  June. 

Writing  of  Roger  Dayiel  of  Lyllyngston  Dayrel  co.  Buckingham,  being 
a  grant  and  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  Alan  Ayete  of  Sluddeston  and 
John  Chaumberleyn  clerk,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  the  whole  manor 
and  the  advowson  of  Haneworth,  co.  Middlesex  which  they  now- 
bold  by  gift  and  feoffment  of  William  Wakcleyn  and  Lydia  his  wife 
as  well  by  charter  as  by  fine  levied  in  the  king's  court  at  Westminster. 
Dated  London,  10  June  51  Edward  111. 

Writing  of  Roger  Dayrel  of  Lyllyngston  Dayrel  co.  Bukingham, 
being  a  general  release  to  William  \Yakele\n  of  Eydon  co.  Northampton 


<   \l.i:\l'\i:    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


.  ,  Mi  mbrant  fid  -  <'<>ni. 

of  all  actions,  claims,  plaints  and  demands  real  and  personal  by  reason 
el  any  debt,  statute  merchant  or  other  matter  whatsoever.     Dated 

(<M   the   hl<l). 

Indent  me  made  between  Roger  Dayrel  of  Lyllyngston  Dayrel  co. 
Bukyngham  of  the  one  pari  and  Nicholas  Brembre  and  Thomas 
Alboun  citizens  of  London  <»f  the  other  part,  witnessing  an  accord 

between  the  parties  that,  whereas  the  said  Nicholas  and  Thomas  are 
hound  to  the  said  Roger  in  2i0l.  by  st  it  ute  nu  reliant  before  William 
Walworth  mayor  of  the  staple  of  Westminster,  the  said  Nicholas 
and  Thomas,  their  executors  or  some  other  in  their  name  shall  pay 
to  the  said  Roger  or  Ins  executors  at  Lyllyngston  Dayrel  402.  at 
.Michaelmas  next  or  within  three  days  after,  for  which  an  acquittance 
Bhall  he  given  them,  and  NO/,  at  Christmas  next  or  within  three  days 
alter,  that  upon  such  payment  made  the  said  Roger,  his  executors  or 
some  other  in  their  name  shall  deliver  up  the  said  statute  to  them 
or  their  attorney  without  further  demand  by  force  thereof,  and  that 
the  same  shall  then  be  null  and  void.  Dated  London,  10  June 
51    Edward   III.     French. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  Roger  Dayrel  of  the  fore- 
going  writings,  10  June. 

Charter  of  John  Chasteloun,  giving  with  warranty  to  Alan  de  Ayete, 
John  Thame.  John  Barker  chaplain  vicar  of  Westbury  and  Henry 
Haurdon  chaplain,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  his  park  called  '  Radeclyve 
park.'  his  wood  called  the  Moreyf,  and  his  wood  called  the  Frith  in 
Westbury.  Dated  Westbury,  Thursday  the  feast  of  St.  Barnabas 
51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  11  June. 

Writing  of  Nicholas  atte  Hoo  citizen  and  saddler  {cellar')  of  London, 
being  a  quitclaim  with  warranty  to  William  Wen  grave  clerk  and 
John  Chaumber  of  Hodenhale,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  of  all  lands, 
rents  and  services,  reversions  etc.  in  the  hamlets  of  Bovyndon  and 
Flaundon  in  the  parish  of  Hamelhamstede  and  in  Saretta  which 
were    sometime    of  Geoffrey  atte  Hoo  father  of  the  said  Nicholas, 

cept  the  land  sometime  of  John  Pykot.  Dated  Flaunden,  the 
feast  of  St.   Barnabas  51   Edward  ill. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  June. 

Writing  of  John  Manyngford,  being  a  bond  to  Roger  Manyngford 
his  father  in  100/.  payable  at  Easter  next  at  Prestone  in  the  parish 
of  Ywerne  Minstre.  Witnesses:  William  Lucy,  John  atte  Hale 
knights,  William  Laterner,  Adam  atte  More,  Henry  Baret,  John 
Plumberc.    Dated  Prestone,  Thursday  after  Michaelmas  50  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  13  June  this  year. 

Indenture  made  at  Prestone  in  the  parish  of  Ywerne  Minstre  on 
Thursday  before  All  .Saints  50  Edward  III  between  Roger  Manyngford 
and  John  Manyngford  his  son,  witnessing  the  defeasance  of  the  fore- 
going bond,  upon  condition  that  the  said  John  shall  pay  10  marks  at 
Easter  and  Michaelmas  next  by  even  portions,  and  so  from  year  to 
year  until  40/.  be  fully  paid. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment  by  the  parties,  13  June  this  year. 


51    EDWARD    III. 


551 


1377.  Membrane  5d — con/. 

June  17.         Baldwin  de   Bereford   knight   to  John   Beverlee.     Recognisance  for 

Westminster.  500   marks,   to    be   levied,   in  default  of  payment,  of  his   lands  and 
chattels  in  Oxfordshire. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


The  said  Baldwin  to  the  said  John, 
to  be  levied  etc.  as  above. 
Cancelled  on  payment. 


Recognisance  for  200  marks, 


( lharter  of  John  de  Clyfton,  giving  with  warranty  to  John  de  Merlay, 
John  de  Holkham,  John  Berde,  Simon  dil  Hay  and  Thomas  de 
Flycham,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  a  third  part  of  the  manor  of 
Hilburghworth  with  the  advowson  of  the  church,  and  all  homages, 
wards,  reliefs,  escheats  and  other  rights  etc.  to  the  same  belonging. 
Witnesses  :  Richard  de  Holdyche,  William  de  Barsale,  Richard 
Tothe,  Geoffrey  Sewale,  John  Mau.  John  Bray,  Richard  Yeyle. 
Dated  Hyl  burgh  worth,  2  November  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,   17  June. 

MEMBRANE    4d. 

Charter  of  William  de  la  Wodeton,  son  and  heir  of  Bartholomew 
de  la  Wodeton  of  Acton  co.  Middlesex,  giving  with  warranty  to  John 
Holmes  of  Acton  and  Isabel  his  wife  and  to  the  heirs  and  assigns 
of  the  said  John  a  piece  of  land  called  Childeslond  with  hedges,  ditches 
etc.  in  the  parish  of  Acton  between  lands  of  the  prior  and  convent  of 
the  hospital  of  St.  Bartholomew  on  the  east  and  north  and  of  Richard 
de  Eston  on  the  south  the  head  abutting  on  the  high  road  called 
'  Stonelane  '  leading  towards  Harwe  on  the  west ;  also  a  garden  with 
hedges,  ditches  etc.  in  the  town  of  Acton  between  the  grantor's 
tenement  called  the  '  Tabard  on  the  Hope  '  on  the  north,  the  messuage 
there  wherein  the  grantor  dwells  on  the  west,  his  garden  called  the 
'  Culvershous  '  on  the  south  and  a  messuage  and  garden  of  the  said 
John  on  the  east.  Witnesses  :  Richard  de  Eston,  Thomas  Fighter, 
John  Fighter,  William  Morden,  Richard  Baker.  Dated  Acton,  8  June 
51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  12  June. 

To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  and  to  his 
lieutenant.  Order  by  mainprise  of  Guy  de  Briene,  John  de  Monte 
Acuto  and  Robert  Rous  to  set  free  Edmund  de  Arundell  who  is 
imprisoned  at  the  king's  command  in  their  custody  ;  as  the  said 
Guy,  John  and  Robert  have  mainperned  body  for  body  to  have  him 
from  day  to  day  upon  reasonable  warning  where  the  king  shall  please, 
to  answer  before  the  king  and  council  touching  matters  which  shall 
be  laid  before  him,  and  to  do  and  receive  what  shall  be  by  the  council 
appointed,  also  under  a  set  sum  to  be  by  the  council  laid  upon  them 
that  without  the  king's  special  licence  he  shall  not  depart  to  any 
foreign  parts,  nor  there  prosecute  or  cause  to  be  prosecuted  or 
attempted  aught  which  may  tend  to  contempt  or  prejudice  of  the 
king,  to  impair  the  laws  and  customs  of  the  realm,  or  to  trouble  the 
people.  By  C. 

June  13.         John  abbot  of  Suleby,  for  himself  and  the  convent,  to  the  dean 
Westminster,  and   chapter   of    the   new   collegiate   church   of    St.     Mary    Leyoestre. 


June  5. 

Westminster, 


I   UiENDAP    OF   CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1377.  "■ '"'""'"  4d    cont. 

Recognisance  for  :!<»(>/..  bo  be  levied,  in  default   of  payment,  of  his 
lands  and  chattels  and  ecclesiastical  goods  in  Lincolnshire, 

Jane  13.         Michael  de  la  Pole  knight  bo  Walter  prior  of  the  house  of  St.  Michael 
Westminster.  I»\    I  lull   of   the   Carthusian   order.     Recognisance   for  2,000   marks, 
t..  be  levied  etc.  of  his  lands  and  chattels  in  Yorkshire. 
-      ■■,ij,  ,i  ,,„  payment,  first  of  1,0001.,  <ni>l  after  <>f  the  residue. 

Chartei  of  John  de  Clyfton,  Lri\iiiLr  with  warranty  to  Richard  de 
Boldyche,  John  fcterlay.  John  de  Holkham,  John  Reed,  Simon  dil 
Hay  and  Thomas  de  Flikham,  (heir  heirs  and  assigns,  his  manors  of 
Bradenham  and  Cranewyz  with  the  advowson  of  Cranewyz  church 
and  all  homages,  wards,  marriages,  reliefs,  escheats,  rents,  services  etc 
thereto  belonging.  Witnesses  :  Sir  Robert  de  Mortuo  Mari, 
Sir  Richard  de  Qleye  knights,  Thomas  de  Teveteshale,  Geoffrey  Sewale, 
John  de  North wolde,  John  .Man.  John  Sparwe.  Dated  Hilhurworth, 
Sunday  after  St.  Dunstan  49  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment    17  June  this  year. 

Writing  of  Henry  Husee,  being  a  receipt  in  the  chancery  of 
England  for  100  marks  paid  by  John  Cruys  and  John  Blakebourne 
in    part    of    4<>(t    marks,    in    consideration    whereof   the   said   Henry 

mted  i<>  them,  their  heirs  and  assigns,  the  reversion  after  the 
death  of  John  (Yophull  knight  of  all  his  kinds,  rents,  services  and 
advowsona  of  churches  in  the.  counties  of  Dublin,  Meath,  Uriel  and 
Loueth   in    Ireland.     Dated    17   June   51  Edward  III. 

Memorandum  of  acknowledgment,  17  June. 

June  20.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London,  Dovorre  or 
(minster.  Sandewich.  Order  to  suffer  Robert  Eure,  Edmund  del  Clay,  Nicholas 
Potyn  and  John  Dovy,  three  and  two  of  them,  in  any  of  those  ports 
to  pass  over  sea  without  let  with  twelve  servants  and  sixteen  horses 
in  their  company,  taking  5,000/.  as  well  in  money  as  in  jewels,  any 
command  of  the  king  to  the  keepers  formerly  addressed  to  the  contrary 
notwithstanding  ;  as  they  are  journeying  thither  with  the  king's 
licence. 

June  17.  To  the  collectors  of  customs  in  the  port  of  Kymgeston  upon  Hull, 
minster.  Order,  upon  the  petition  of  William  Johnson  of  Stokkyth,  to  make 
search  of  all  goods  which  are  in  a  ship  of  his  by  them  arrested  and 
detained  and  the  price  thereof,  to  receive  to  the  king's  use  any 
customs  and  subsidies  thereupon  due,  and  by  mainprise  of  Thomas 
de  Duffeld  clerk  and  William  de  Gaynesburgh  clerk  of  Lincolnshire 
and  John  de  Boterwyk  and  James  Lyons  of  Middlesex  to  dearrest 
and  deliver  to  him  ship  and  goods,  certifying  under  their  seals  in 
chancery  without  delay  their  action  in  the  matter  ;  as  his  petition 
shews  that  lately  with  the  said  ship  he  sailed  to  the  town  of  Calais 
on  the  king's  service,  that  he  there  laded  the  same  with  divers  goods 
of  certain  merchants  of  England  to  be  taken  to  Hull,  and  has  now 
brought  it  to  be  unladed  in  that  port,  and  that  the  collectors  have 
arrested  and  are  detaining  the  same  although  the  said  goods  were 
not  exposed  for  sale  nor  ought  to  be  customed  for  any  other  cause, 
pretending  that  the  same  are  aliens'  goods  and  that  custom  ought 


51    EDWARD    III.  553 


1377.  Membrane  4d — cont. 

therefore  to  be  paid  upon  them  ;  and  the  said  Thomas  and  the  others, 
appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned  to  answer  to  the 
king  for  ship  and  goods  if  they  ought  to  be  forfeit  to  the  king. 

June  9.  To  the  treasurer  and  the  barons  of  the  exchequer.     Order  to  view 

Westminster,  an  indenture  made  between  Thomas  de  Folkerthorp  and  Nicholas 
Beek  lieutenant  of  William  de  Brantyngham  the  constable  of  Somerton 
castle,  and  if  thereby  or  by  inquisition  or  otherwise  assured  that 
the  facts  are  as  stated,  to  stay  their  demand  made  by  exchequer 
summons  upon  the  said  Thomas  to  answer  for  certain  pieces  of  new- 
timber,  discharging  him  thereof  ;  as  by  letters  patent  the  kino- 
appointed  him  clerk  of  the  king's  works  in  the  said  castle,  and  with 
the  king's  money  to  buy  stone,  timber  and  other  things  needful  for  the 
works,  and  to  take  carriage  for  the  same  by  land  and  water,  by  virtue 
whereof  he  purveyed  the  timber  aforesaid  to  the  king's  use,  and 
delivered  the  same  to  the  said  Nicholas  as  by  that  indenture  may 
appear.  Proviso  that  he  shall  render  account  for  all  other  things 
which  concern  his  office. 

Membrane  3d 

June  17.  To  the  sheriffs  of  London.  Order  by  mainprise  of  William  Gysburne, 
Westminster.  Nicholas  Thornton,  John  Squier  and  John  Scarlet  of  London  to  stay 
altogether  the  further  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ  against  John 
York  '  brewere  '  and  Thomas  Trygg  ;  as  at  the  petition  of  John 
Broke  'shipman,'  averring  that  they  threatened  him  in  life  and  limbs, 
the  king  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  Robert  Ford  '  tavernere  '  the 
said  John  York  and  Thomas  .to  come  before  him,  and  to  compel  them 
to  find  mainperners  who,  under  a  pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon 
them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would  answer,  would  mainpern  that 
defendants  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  com- 
plainant, and  if  they  should  refuse,  to  commit  them  to  Neugate 
gaol  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  they  would  w  illingly  so  do  ; 
but  the  said  William  and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery, 
have  mainperned  as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  201. 

June  10.  To  the  sheriff  of  Bukingham.  Order,  for  particular  causes  laid 
Westminster,  before  the  king  by  Richard  le  Scrope,  not  to  meddle  further  until 
further  order  by  colour  of  the  king's  late  writ  in  ordering  or  admonishing 
the  said  Richard  to  remove  or  abate  his  weirs,  mill,  ponds,  stakes 
and  kiddles  of  old  time  set  or  erected  in  the  town  of  Hamelden,  or 
in  the  removal  and  abatement  thereof,  although  the  king  lately  ordered 
the  sheriff  to  survey  all  weirs,  mills  etc.  erected  or  set  in  that  county 
within  liberties  and  without  to  the  hurt  and  nuisance  of  the  people 
contrary  to  the  statute,  to  take  information  touching  such  nuisance, 
and  as  strictly  as  he  might  on  the  king's  behalf  to  move  and  order 
all  and  singular  the  lords  of  the  soil  on  either  side  the  river  Thames 
whereon  such  nuisances  are  set  contrary  to  the  statute  to  remove  and 
abate  the  same  without  delay,  and  to  do  many  other  things  in  the 
writ  contained.  By  K. 

May  1.  To  the  mayor  of  the  city  of  London.     Order,  upon  the  petition  of 

Westminster.  Robert  Parys,   Richard  Willesdon,  William  Staundon,  Thomas  Rolf, 

William  Hoghton  and  John  Fyfhide  citizens  and  merchants  of  London, 

to  take  of  them  security  for  which  the  sheriffs  will  answer,  and  deliver 


I   \Li:\l>  \K    OF    CLOSE    ROLLS. 


1  177,  "  nihrmie  3d    coni, 

to  them  the  goods  and  merchandise  hereinafter  mentioned  ;  as  their 
petition  Bhews  thai  certain  goods  and  merchandise  of  the  Prenoh 
in  the  Baid  >ii\  were  arrested  for  safe  custody  in  the  sheriffs'  hands, 
for  tli.it  greal  number  of  goods  and  merchandise  oi  the  said  merchants 
were  contrary  to  the  truce  newly  made  between  the  king  and  bis 
adversaries  oi  Prance  taken  at  sea  by  certain  men  <>f  Prance,  and  in 
order  thai  the  Baid  merchants  should  more  Bpeedily  be  contented 
for  their  damage  and  loss,  in  consideration  of  their  impoverishment, 
praying  livery  of  the  Baid  goods  of  the  Prenoh,  upon  Beourity  given 
for  restitution  thereof  if  hereafter  restitution  of  their  own  goods 
Bhall  be  made  them. 

May  9.  To  the  Bheriff  of  Norffolk.     Order,  upon  petition  made  on  behalf 

tminster.  of  Thomas  Gylmyn  clerk,  by  mainprise  of  John  Surreys  of  Lancashire, 
William  Dybeloun  and  Adam  de  Norwich  of  London  and  William 
Osmond  of  Norffolk  to  Bet  him  tree  from  prison  if  detained  for  the 
cause  hereinafter  mentioned  and  for  none  other  ;  as  upon  information 
cived  that  the  said  clerk  purposed  to  pass  to  foreign  parts  in  order 
there  to  prosecute  many  tilings  to  the  prejudice  of  the  king  and  many 
of  his  people,  it  being  also  averred  by  Richard  Brunston  and  Roger 
Milnere  that  he  threatened  them  in  life  and  limbs,  by  divers  writs 
the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriff  to  cause  the  said  clerk  to  come 
before  him.  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a  pain 
to  be  by  the  sheriff  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriff  would  answer, 
would  mainpern  that  without  the  king's  special  licence  he  should 
not  depart  to  any  foreign  parts  nor  prosecute  aught  or  cause  aught 
to  be  prosecuted  or  attempted  which  might  tend  to  contempt  or 
prejudice  of  the  king  or  the  hurt  of  the  people,  nor  send  any  thither 
for  that  purpose,  and  that  he  should  do  or  procure  no  bodily  hurt 
or  harm  to  the  complainants,  and  if  he  should  refuse,  to  commit  him 
to  prison,  there  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody  until  he  would  willingly 
so  do  ;  and  now  the  said  petition  shews  that  those  averments  are 
untrue,  that  he  is  ready  to  stand  to  right  in  all  things,  and  that  never- 
theless he  is  by  the  sheriff  taken  and  imprisoned  ;  and  the  said  John 
and  the  others,  appearing  in  person  in  chancery,  have  mainperned 
as  aforesaid  under  a  pain  of  40/. 

MEMBRANE  2d. 

April  23.  To  John  king  of  Castillo  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre,  Roger  de 
Westminster.  Clyfford,  Thomas  de  Ingelby,  Roger  de  Kyrketon,  Roger  de  Fulthorp, 
James  de  Pykeryng,  John  Sayville,  William  de  Mirefeld,  Robert  de 
Ples3'ngton,  William  de  Gairgrave,  John  de  Preston,  Robert  Passelowe, 
William  de  Horton  and  John  del  Banke.  Order  not  to  meddle  by  reason 
of  the  king's  late  letters  patent  appointing  them  guardians  of  the 
peace  in  the  Westrithyng  in  Yorkshire,  and  thirteen,  twelve,  eleven, 
ten,  nine,  eight,  seven,  six,  five,  four,  three  and  two  of  them  justices 
of  oyer  and  terminer  in  that  thrithyng,  in  aught  that  concerns  those 
offices  or  other  things  in  their  commission  contained  in  the  city  of 
York  ;  as  by  other  letters  patent  on  8  February  last  the  king 
appointed  John  de  Santon  mayor  of  York,  John  de  Gysburne,  John  de 
Acastre,  Thomas  de  Howome,  Thomas  Thurkyll  and  the  said  Thomas 
de  Ingelby  and  Roger  de  Fulthorp  guardians  of  the  peace  in  the  said 


r,l    EDWARD  III.  555 


1377.  Membrane  2d — cont. 

city,  and  six.  five.  four,  three  and  two  of  them  just  ices  of  oyer  and 
terminer  therein,  and  to  do  all  and  Bingular  the  other  things  aforesaid. 

The  like  to  John  king  of  Castille  and  Leon  and  duke  of  Lancastre, 
Henry  de  Percy.  Richard  le  Scrope,  Roger  de  Kyrketon,  Roger  de 
Fulthorp,  Richard  de  Riohemonde  Henry  de  Bellerby,  Richard 
Bernard,  William  de  Nessefeld,  John  Lokton  and  -John  Laton  guardians 
of  the  peace  in  the  North  trithyng,  not  to  meddle  etc.  in  the  said  city. 

The  like  to  Henry  de  Percy,  Peter  de  Maulay,  William  de  Aton, 
Roger  de  Kyrketon,  Roger  de  Fulthorp,  Thomas  de  Sutton.  John 
Conestable  of  Halsham,  John  Bygot  and  William  Percehay  guardians 
of  the  peace  in  the  Estri  thing. 

May  1.  To  Alan  de  Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower  of  London,  or  to  his 

Westminster,  lieutenant  there.  Order  to  deliver  from  the  prison  of  the  Tower 
John  Eremyte,  John  Scotte,  John  Brode,  John  Passe,  John  Walle, 
Richard  Champaneys  and  Richard  Wykham,  who  were  lately 
impeached  for  an  alleged  trespass  or  misprision  by  them  and  certain 
others  committed  at  sea  off  Portesmuth  contrary  to  the  alliance 
lately  made  between  the  king  and  them  of  Genoa  (Jonua)  against 
certain  merchants  of  Genoa  in  a  ship  called  a  tarit  laded  with  divers 
merchandise,  and  for  that  cause  were  by  the  king's  command  arrested 
and  committed  to  the  said  prison,  and  being  after  examined  before 
the  king  and  council  in  part  excused  themselves  ;  and  order  to  deliver 
them  by  indenture  to  Robert  de  Hales  prior  of  the  Hospital  of 
St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in  England  and  admiral  of  the  king's  fleet 
to  the  westward.  The  king  has  commanded  the  admiral  to  receive 
them,  and  to  take  of  them  a  mainprise  to  answer  when  they  or  any 
of  them  shall  be  summoned  before  the  king  and  council.     By  K.  and  C. 

To  Robert  de  Hales  prior  of  the  Hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem 
in  England  and  admiral  of  the  king's  fleet  to  the  westward.  Order 
by  indenture  to  receive  the  prisoners  above  named  from  Alan  de 
Buxhull  constable  of  the  Tower,  to  take  of  them  a  mainprise  that 
the}'  will  answer  when  they  or  any  of  them  shall  be  summoned  before 
the  king  and  council,  and  if  they  may  not  find  such  mainprise,  that 
every  one  of  them  shall  mainpern  for  another  body  for  body,  and  to 
suffer  them  to  repair  to  their  own  parts.  The  king  has  commanded 
the  said  constable  or  his  lieutenant  to  deliver  them  to  the  admiral. 

Memorandum  of  a  mainprise  under  a  pain  of  1,000  marks,  made 
15  June  51  Edward  III  in  the  chancery  at  Westminster  by  Hugh 
Tirell  knight,  Ralph  de  Poleye  knight,  Ralph  de  Shelton  knight,  John 
de  Belhouse,  Simon  de  Fliccham  and  Michael  de  Mentemore  for 
Stephen  Wolryk  of  Skothowe,  John  Drake,  John  Whyte  and  Thomas 
Pry  keys  parson  of  Swynyngton,  that  they  shall  not  do  or  procure 
any  hurt  or  hindrance  to  Alice  who  was  wife  of  Thomas  Gerberge 
knight  nor  any  of  her  counsel  or  her  servants  in  prosecuting  her 
business  in  divers  the  king's  courts  and  elsewhere,  there  abiding 
and  thence  returning  to  their  own  again. 

MEMBRANE  Id. 

May  2.  To  the  abbess  and  convent  of  Berkyng.     Order  to  grant  to  Thomas 

Westminster.*  de  Barton  the  king's   clerk  such   a  pension   of   their   house   as   shall 

*  The  warrant  ia  dated  Windsor  castle. 


I   \l.i:\l»  \i:  OF  CLOSE  ROLLS. 


1  ;>7  7.  •'/'  mbrand   \>l    -roil. 

beseem  the  given  and  Bhould  bind  the  reoeiver  to  them,  making  him 
letters  patent   thereupon  under  the  chapter  Beal,  and  writing  again 

without  del. i\  what  thc\  will  do;  as  the  abbess  by  reason  of  her 
new  oreation  is  bound  in  such  a  pension  i«>  one  <>l  the  king's  clerks 
.it  the  king's  iicmin.it inn.  .ind  the  king  has  nominated  the  said  Thomas, 
whose  advancement   he  has  at   heart.  By  p.s.  [31424.] 

\\  iv  13.         To  the  sheriff  of  Suthampton.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Thomas  do 

Westminster.  Evesham,  .John  WVMc   Richard   Bakcney  and  William  Werkeworth 

of  London  to  stay  altogether  the  lurthci   publication  of  the  exigents 

mist  William  Permay  and  Henry  I'rentys.  executors  of  John 
Permay  citizen  of  London,  and  the  taking  of  their  bodies,  bringing 
this  writ  before  the  justices  of  the  Bench  ;  as  John  Pepard  of  Aulton 
is  impleading  them  before  the  said  justices  to  render  him  a  certain 
-urn  of  money,  and  they  are  put  in  exigents  in  the  county  of 
Suthampton  to  be  outlawed  for  that  they  came  not  before  the  said 
justices  to  answer  him.  being  altogether  without  knowledge  thereof, 
wherefore  they  have  petitioned  the  king  for  a  stay,  shewing  that 
they  are  ready  to  Btand  to  right  touching  the  premises;  and  the 
said  Thomas  and  the  others,  appealing  in  person  in  chancery,  have 
mainperned  under  a  pain  of  40  marks  to  have  them  before  the  said 
justices  the  day  the  writ  of  exigents  is  returnable  before  them. 

May  25.  To  the  keepers  of  the  passage  in  the  port  of  London,  Dovorre  or 
Westminster.  Sandewich.  Order  to  suffer  brother  Ellis  Reymundi  master  general 
of  the  order  of  friars  preachers,  who  with  the  king's  licence  is  journeying 
over  sea,  in  any  of  those  ports  freely  without  let  to  pass  thither  with 
three  his  fellows,  one  clerk,  two  servants,  four  horses  and  two  mules 
of  his,  taking  one  fardel  in  which  are  books  and  raiment,  20  ells  of 
new  cloth,  cups  and  other  vessels  of  silver  to  the  value  of  121.,  and 
20/.  in  gold  for  his  expenses,  any  command  to  the  said  keepers 
previously  addressed  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

May  30.         To  the  sheriffs  of  London.     Order  by  mainprise  of  Nicholas  Potyn, 

Thomas  de  Evesham  and  Hugh  Sprot  of  the  city  of  London  to  set  free 

John  Broke  '  shypman  '  by  the  sheriffs  detained  in  Neugate  prison 
it  is  said,  staying  altogether  the  execution  of  the  king's  late  writ 
against  him  ;  as  at  the  suit  of  Robert  Forde  '  tavernere  '  and  John 
York  '  brewere,'  averring  that  the  prisoner  threatened  them  in  life 
and  limbs,  the  king  lately  ordered  the  sheriffs  to  cause  him  to  come 
before  them,  and  to  compel  him  to  find  mainpernors  who,  under  a 
pain  to  be  by  the  sheriffs  laid  upon  them  for  which  the  sheriffs  would 
answer,  would  mainpern  that  he  should  do  or  procure  no  hurt  or  harm 
to  the  complainants  ;  but  the  said  Nicholas  and  the  others  have 
mainperned  in  chancery  under  pain  of  100  marks  that  he  shall  do  or 
procure  no  bodily  hurt  or  harm  to  the  complainants. 

May  30.         To    the    mayor,    sheriffs    and    aldermen    of   the    city    of    London. 

Westminster.  Notification  that  for  particular  causes  declared  to  them  by  the  council 

by  word  of   mouth,   the  king  has   postponed  until  the  octaves    of 

Michaelmas  next  a  day  given  to  the  mayor  etc.  to  be  before  the  council 


51  EDWARD  III.  557 


1377.  Membrane  Id — cont. 

at  Westminster  for  the  answer  of  a  matter  affecting  the  constable 
and  the  marshal  of  England,  in  order  that  then  they  may  be  better 
able  to  set  forth  their  answers  touching  the  same,  which  day  by 
writ  to  them  addressed  the  king  lately  postponed  to  these  instant 
octaves  of  Trinity.  By  K.  and  C. 


w 


SUPPU'.MKXTAIIY   CLOSK    KOLL.   No.    12. 


L5-16  EDWARD   III. 


Writs  db  Warantia  Dibbum. 


1341. 

April  30.  To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  that  William  son  of  Robert  de 
r.  Wotton  be  Dot  pal  in  default  nor  be  a  loser  because  of  his  absence 
on  the  morrow  of  St.  Martin  last  in  a  cause  between  Ralph  Dastyn 
of  Grete  plaintiff  and  the  said  William  tenant  concerning  5  acres 
of  land,  3  acres  of  meadow  and  4  acres  of  pasture  in  Sudleye,  whereof 
he  has  vouched  to  warranty  Joan  who  was  wife  of  Robert  de  Wotton  ; 
as  he  was  that  day  on  the  king's  service  over  sea  in  the  company  of 
Richard  de  Nateby  the  king's  clerk  late  controller  of  the  household, so 
that  he  might  not  be  present.  By  p.s.  [13927.] 


Aug.  9. 
Tower  of 

London. 


Aug.  9. 

Tower  of 
London. 


1342. 
Feb.  23. 


To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  that  Robert  son  of  Roger 
Corbet  of  Hadleye  be  not  put  in  defaidt  etc.  because  of  his  absence 
on  Sunday  in  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  last  in  a  cause  between  Robert 
son  of  Philip  de  Stcpulton  plaintiff  and  the  said  Robert  son  of  Roger 
and  others  concerning  twelve  messuages,  six  virgates  of  land,  12 
acres  of  meadow.  40  acres  of  pasture  and  12  acres  of  wood  in 
Feldhampton  ;  as  he  was  that  day  on  the  king's  service*  by  order 
of  the  king.  By  p.s.  [14288.] 

To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  that  Lawrence  de  Lodelowe 
knightf  be  not  put  in  default  etc.  by  reason  of  his  absence  on  the 
morrow  of  the  quinzaine  of  Trinity  last  in  a  cause  between  Richard  de 
la  Foreste  chaplain  plaintiff  and  John  de  Boulwas  knight  tenant 
concerning  the  manor  of  Orleton  30s.  of  rent  therein  excepted, 
wherein  he  was  vouched  to  warranty  by  the  said  tenant  ;  as  he  was 
that  day  on  the  king's  service  by  the  king's  command.       By  p.s.  [14286.] 


To  Edward  duke  of  Cornwall  and  earl  of  Cestre.  Order  that  William 
Westminster,  de  Henhull  be  not  put  in  default  etc.  because  of  his  absence  on 
Tuesday  11  December  last  in  a  cause  before  the  justices  of  Cestre 
between  Sibyl  who  was  wife  of  Cadogan  de  Crouton  plaintiff  and  the 
said  William  tenant  concerning  one  bovate  of  land  in  Henhull ;  as 
he  was  that  day  on  the  king's  service.  J  By  p.s.  [14553.] 


March  30. 
Eltham. 


To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  that  Stephen  Waleys  be  not 
put  in  default  etc.  because  of  his  absence  on  Monday  the  morrow 
of  the  quinzaine  of  St.  Hilary  last  in  a  cause  between  Robert  son  of 
Robert  de  Huscroft  plaintiff  and  the  said  Stephen  tenant  concerning 

*  The  warrant  adds  in  Scotland. 

f  In  the  warrant  described  as  cousin  and  heir  of  Isabel  daughter  of  Lawrence 
de  Lodelowe.     He  also  was  in  Scotland. 
X  The  warrant  adds  in  Scotland. 


15-10   EDWARD   III. 


559 


1342. 

a  messuage  and  18  acres  of  land  in  Burgh waleys  ;    as  he  was  that 
da}r  on  the  king's  service  by  order  of  the  king.  By  K. 

Feb.  20.  To  the  same.  Order  that  Richard  de  Crumbwelle  knight  be  not 
Westminster,  put  in  default  etc.  because  of  his  absence  on  Sunday  the  morrow 
of  St.  Martin  in  the  14th  year  of  the  reign  in  a  cause  between  Henry 
de  Chalfhunte  and  Maud  his  wife  plaintiffs  and  the  said  Richard 
tenant  concerning  the  manor  of  Wrenstede  ;  as  he  was  that  day  on 
the  king's  service.  By  p.s.  [14535.] 

July  8.  To  the  same.     Order  that  Stephen  Walays  be  not  put  in  default 

Westminster,  etc.  because  of  his  absence  on  Monday  the  morrow  of  the  quinzaine 
of  Trinity  last  in  a  cause  between  Robert  son  of  Robert  de  Huscroft 
plaintiff  and  the  said  Stephen  tenant  concerning  a  messuage  and 
18  acres  of  land  in  Burgh  walays  ;  as  he  was  that  day  on  the  king's 
service.  By  p.s. 


(  m)  ) 


SUPPLEMENTARY  CLOSE  KOLL.  No.  13. 


29-81    EDWARD  III. 


WlUTS  de  Warantia  Dierum. 


1355. 

Oct  20. 

Bandwioh. 


1356. 

Jan.  21. 

Ham  borough. 


June  28. 
Tower  of 
London. 


June  29. 
Westminster. 


July  25. 
Henley. 


To  the  justices  of  the  Benoh.  Order  that  William  Lat}rmer  knight 
be  not  put  in  default  nor  be  a  loser  because  of  his  absence  on  Monday 
the  morrow  of  five  weeks  after  Easter  last  in  a  cause  between  the 
said  William  plaintiff  and  Adam  de  Everyngham  knight  tenant 
concerning  the  manors  of  Weatbrunne  and  Brocton  co.  York;  as 
he  was  that  day  on  the  king's  service  by  order  of  the  king,  so  that  he 
might  not  be  present.  By  p.s.  [22913.] 

To  the  justices  of  the  Bench  Dublin.  Order  that  Master  Thomas 
de  Neville  clerk  prebendary  of  Swerdes  in  the  church  of  St.  Patrick 
Dublin  be  not  put  in  default  etc.  because  of  his  absence  on  Wednesday 
the  octaves  of  St.  Hilary  last  in  a  cause  between  John  archbishop 
of  Dublin  plaintiff  and  the  said  Thomas  tenant  concerning  a  messuage 
and  two  carucates  of  land  in  Swerdes  ;  as  he  was  that  day  on  the 
king's  service  by  order  of  the  king.  By  p.s.  [22982.] 

To  the  justices  of  the  Bench  Dublin.  Order  (as  the  last)  in  favour 
of  Thomas  Neville  clerk  prebendary  etc.  By  p.s.  [22981.] 

To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  that  John  Freboys  of  Meltynby 
be  not  put  in  default  etc.  because  of  his  absence  on  Wednesday  the 
morrow  of  the  Purification  last  in  a  cause  between  Robert  de 
Stodehagh  and  Dionysia  his  wife  plaintiffs  and  the  said  John  and 
Katherine  his  wife  tenants  concerning  a  messuage  and  three  bovates 
of  land  in  Barneby  by  Pokelyngton,  nor  in  a  cause  between  the  same 
parties  concerning  ten  bovates  of  land  in  Meltynby  ;  as  he  was  that 
day  in  Scotland  on  the  king's  service  by  order  etc.  By  p.s.  [23166.] 

To  the  justices  of  the  Bench.  Order  that  Henry  Gramary  knight 
be  not  put  in  default  etc.  because  of  his  absence  on  Tuesday  the 
octaves  of  the  Purification  last  in  a  cause  between  Isabel  daughter 
of  Robert  de  la  Chaumber  of  Fenton  plaintiff  and  the  said  Henry 
tenant  concerning  9  acres  of  land  in  Fenton  ;  as  he  was  that  day 
in  Scotland  on  the  king's  service  by  order  of  the  king.     By  p.s.  [23169.] 

To  the  mayor  and  bailiffs  of  Oxford.  Order  that  Thomas  son  of 
Thomas  de  Pydynton  be  not  put  in  default  etc.  because  of  his  absence 
on  Monday  before  St.  Margaret  last  in  a  cause  in  the  husting  of  that 
town  between  John  de  Tekne  plaintiff  and  the  said  Thomas  and  Alice 
his  wife  tenants  concerning  a  moiety  of  two  messuages  in  Oxford  ;  as 
he  was  that  day  on  the  king's  service  in  Gascony  in  the  company  of 
Edward  prince  of  Wales.  By  p.s.  [23198.] 


29-31    EDWARD    ITT. 


501 


1357. 

Sept.  18.         To  the   justices  of  the   Bench.     Order  that   William  de   Overton 
Clarendon,     knight  be  not  put  in  default  etc.  because  of  his  absence  on  Monday 
after  Sunday  the  morrow  of  St.  John  Baptist  last  in  a  cause  between 
Martin  de  Hertham  and  the  said  William  concerning  an  alleged  debt 
of  200  marks  ;   as  he  was  that  day  on  the  king's  service.  By  p.s. 

The  like  in  favour  of  the  said  William  under  the  name  of  William  de 
Overton. 

Dec.  16.  To  the  mayor  of  the  city  of  London.  Order  that  John  Cory  clerk 
Westminster,  be  not  put  in  default  etc.  because  of  his  absence  on  Monday  and 
Tuesday  after  the  Conception  last  in  a  cause  between  the  said  John 
and  the  abbot  of  St.  Albans  concerning  naam  taken  hi  the  freehold 
of  the  said  John  in  the  parish  of  St.  Benet  by  Paules  wharf  London 
and  unlawfully  detained  it  is  said  ;  as  he  was  on  those  days  on  the 
king's  service  by  order  of  the  king.  By  K. 


Wt.  1182 1. 


<-r  36 


(  563  ) 


GENERAL   INDEX 


(  565  ) 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


A 

Aardenburg,  Ardenbourch  [Holand, 
Zeeland],  burgesses  of,  21. 

Abbenhale.     See  Abinghall. 

Abberbury,  Abbiirbury,  Adelbery, 
Richard  de,  knight,  355,  432, 
458,    528. 

Abbess  Roding.     See  Roding. 

Abbey,  John,   460. 

Cf.  Aby. 

Abbot,  Robert,  of  Dyke,  of  York- 
shire, 431. 

,  Simon,  chaplain,  82,  83. 

Abbotesbury,     See  Abbotsbury. 

Abbotesle.     See  Abbotsley. 

Abbotsbury,  Abbotesbury  abbey 
[co.  Dorset],  abbot  of.  See 
Tolre,  Henry  de. 

., ,    ....  and  convent  of,    289, 

470. 

,  adversities  of,   382. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  384. 

Abbotsley,  Abbotesle  [co.  Hunting- 
don], 233. 

Abbot's  Roding.     See  Roding. 

Abburbury.  See  Abberbury,  Ad- 
derbury. 

Abbynggeworth.     See  Abinger. 

Abel,  Agnes  wife  of  Walter,  438. 

,  Walter,  438. 

Abenhale.     See  Abinghall. 

Abergavenny,  Bergeveny,  Bergeveny 
in  Wales  [co.  Monmouth], 
135,  287. 

,  castle  of,  135,  287. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  service  of  keeping,  1 35. 

,  lordship  of,  135,  287. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  farmer  of.  See  Mar- 
shall, Margaret. 

Abergavenny  (farm),  Burdeleys  in 
Scoulton,  co.  Norfolk,  manor 
of,   159. 

abettors,  replevin  of,  248. 

Abindon,  William,  of  London, 
grocer,   84. 


Abingdon,  Abyndon,  co.  Berks,  110, 

350. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  289. 

Abinger,    Abbynggeworth,   Abynge- 

worth,  co.   Surrey,  manor  of, 

226,   354. 
,  Paddington,  Padyngden  in, 

187-189. 
Abinghall,  Abbenhale,  Abenhale,  co. 

Gloucester,   180,  445. 
Abington  in  the  Clay,  Abyndon  by 

Bassingburn,   co.  Cambridge, 

203. 
Abraham,  John,  135. 
,    ,  clerk,   105,  248,  286, 

529. 
,  Richard,  burgess  of  Ports- 
mouth in  parliament,  537. 
Abram,  Adburgham  [in  Wigan],  co. 

Lancaster,   312. 
Aby,  Richard,  searcher  at  Grimsby, 

14. 

Cf.  Abbey. 

Abyndon.     See  Abingdon,  Abington. 
Abyngeworth.      See  Abinger. 
Aoaster    Malbis,    co.  York,  Naburn 

in,  460. 
Acastre,   John  de,   guardian  of   the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 

terminer  in  York,  554. 
account,    pleas   of,   207,    208,    210, 

278. 

,  rendering  of,   323. 

Ace,  Ase,  Thomas,  of  Holborn,  284. 

,  . .  .  . ,  of  London,  cooper,  350. 

Acford.     See  Okeford. 

Achetour,   Alice  daughter  of  John, 

la,  le,   117. 
,   John  la,   le,   the  elder,   of 

Reading,    117. 

,  ....  son  of  John  la,  le,  117. 

Achonry  [co.  Sligo],  bishop  of.     See 

Andrew,    William. 
Acomb  ?  Acton,  co.  York,  391. 
Acres,     John    de,     parson    of     St. 

Bartholomew  the  Less,  Lon- 
don, 350. 
Acrise,  Akriso  by  Elham,  co.  Kent, 

manor  of,   101. 
Acton,  co.  Chester,  Henhull  in,  558. 

,  co.   Middlesex,    109,    551. 

,    .  .  . .,  deeds  dated  at,   109, 

551. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


v  boo,  i  o   Middlesex     oorU, 

tln>    sta\ in'.    Btone 

lane  ami  other  places  named 
in. 

BurnaU  [oo.  Salop].  Btatuie 

<n.  807. 

Langleg .  Longeleye  in, 

I ron.  [renacton.  Iremaeton. 

[rene  Acton,  co.  (Moucester. 
828,  229. 

manor  of,   -'is" 

s'  ■      V ■<  imb,    I  >itton. 

Acton.  Edward  <1<'.  314. 

Eleanor   (Lestraunge)   wife 

of  Edward  da,   314. 

Hugh  de,  <>i'  Salop.  548. 

Lawrence    de,     Lawrence, 

burgess    of    Newcastle-upon- 
Tyne,  532. 

in    parliament, 

120. 

Richard  do.   307. 

knight.  821. 

William.  420.   475. 

Adam.  John  son  of,  chaplain,  ^4. 
do   Corbrigge,    chap- 
lain, 17. 

John   son   of   Thomas   ap, 

knight,  227. 

Roger  ap,  307. 

Adames.   Roger,  471. 
Adamson.  Robert,  of  Scotland,  263. 
Adburgham.     See  Abram. 
Adderbury,    Abburbury    in    Lincoln 
diocese    [co.    Oxford],    rector 
of.     See   Blandiac,    John   de. 
Addington,    Hadyngton,    co.    Buck- 
ingham. 281,  289. 
Adecok.  John,  of  Allhallows  in  Hoo, 

468. 
Adelbery.     See  Abberbury. 
Adelescote.     See  Allocott. 
Adelokiston,    Adelokston.       See  Al- 

lexton. 
Adestoke.     See  Adstock. 
Adlingfleet,     co.     York,     Fockerby, 

Folquardeby  in,  447. 
Adloxton.     See  Allexton. 
Admergill.     See   Admorgill. 
administration,  letters  of,  270. 
Admirall,    William    Smyth     called, 

194. 
admirals.  See  Courtenay,  Philip 
de ;  Hales,  Robert  de ; 
Neville,  William  de  ;  Pole, 
Michael  de  la. 
Admorgill,  Admergill,  co.  Lancaster 
[and  co.  York,  in  Barnolds- 
wick,  co.  York],  16. 


Adstook,  Adestoke,  oo.  Bucking- 
ham, 281. 

\.i\nmt.  Adymet,  John,  433. 

. . ." '.  of  Nunney,  823. 

\  anoj  s.     Sea  Aunis. 

Aghton,  \\  illiam  de,  240. 

Aikion.  CO.  Cumberland,  ( rnmbloshy, 
Gamelisby  in.  19. 

Ailleeford.     8ee  Aylesford. 

Ailslinm.      Sic    Ayloslmm. 

Jish,  As>h  in  Netherburv  |<c 
Dorset],  531. 

Aiskew,  Aycoscoghsh  [in  BodaloJ, 
co.   York,   148. 

Usshlond,   (rooffrey,  265. 

\i-shton.      See    Assheton. 

Aisthorpo,  Asethorp,  co.  Lincoln, 
fee   in,    1 02 . 

Ako,  William  do,  of  Whitby,  72. 

Akrise.     See    Acrise. 

Alan.     See  Fitz  Alan. 

Alayn.     See  Aleyn. 

Mbomarlo,  Aumarele  [Aumale,  dep. 
Soino-Inforiouro],  earl  of,  189, 
191,  192. 

honour  of,  157. 

Albertini,  Alberti,  society  of  mer- 
chants of  the,  252. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  in  London,  440. 

,  of  Florence,  472-474. 

Albon,  Alboun,  Richard,  535. 

,    .  .  .  .,  of  Dunstable,   539. 

,  Thomas,   514. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  550. 

Albury,  Aldebury,  Aldebury  Darcys, 
co.  Herts,  511. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  453,  455. 

,  manor  of,  453,  455. 

Alcrinton,  Alcrynton.     See  Alkerton. 

Aldcliffe,  Aldeclif  [in  Lancaster,  co. 
Lancaster],    500. 

Aldeburgh,  William  de,  chivaler, 
467. 

Aldebury.     See  Albury. 

Aldebury,  Walter,  canon  of  St. 
Paul's,  London,  67. 

Aldeclif.     See  Aldcliffe. 

Aldeford,  Richard  de,  the  king's 
yeoman  and  palfrey  man,  56. 

Cf.   Alf ord. 

Aldeleme,  John  de,  98. 

Aldenby,  William  de,  clerk,   183. 

Aldenham  [co.  Hertford],  234,  236, 
342. 

,  Theobaldstreet,     Tyteburst 

in,  232. 

Aldericheseye,  Aldrycheseye,  John, 
peutrer,  of  London,  78. 

Mderminster,  Aldermaston,  co.  Wor- 
cester,   383. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


567 


Alderminster — cont. 

Goldicote,  Goldecote  in,  455, 

461. 
,  Upthrop,  Upthorp  in,  383. 

Alderney,  Aiireney,  Aurneye,  island 
of,  alien  priories  in,  496. 

,  destruction  of  mills  in,  413. 

,   keeper    of.      See    Calveley, 

Hugh  de. 

receiver   and    apprower   of. 

See  Appleby,  Thomas  de. 
,  rolls  of  controllers  of,  413. 

Alderton,  Aldryngton,  co.  North- 
ampton,   208. 

,    .  .  .  .,  fee  in,  190. 

,    co.    Suffolk,    advowson   of, 

234. 

Aldewerk,  John  de,  90. 

Aldeworth.  '  See   Aldworth. 

Aldewyncle.     See    Aldwinkle. 

Aldewyncle,  Thomas,  230. 

Aldewyne,   Thomas,    205. 

Aldham,  co.  Essex,  319. 

,  fee  in,  22. 

Aldrich,  William,  510. 

Aldrycheseye.     See    Aldericheseye. 

Aldryngton.     See  Alderton. 

Aldrynton,  John  de,  305. 

Aldwick  [in  Pagham]  ?  Eldebury, 
co.    Sussex,   139. 

Aldwinkle,  Aldewyncle  [co.  North- 
ampton],   360. 

Aldworth,  Aldeworth,  co.  Berks, 
manor  of,  395. 

,  Estaldeworthe  [in  Mitford], 

co.    Northumberland,    507. 

Alemayn,  John,  brother  of  the  hos- 
pital of  St.  John  of  Jeru- 
salem, 26,   27. 

Cf.  Dalmaigne. 

Alesborne.     See  Alnesbourne. 

Alewyn,  Aylewyn,  Geoffrey,  coroner 
of    Gloucestershire,    1 58. 

,  William,  450. 

Aleyn,  Alayn,  John,  531. 

,   ,  the  father,  80. 

,    the  son,  80. 

,   Reynold,   442. 

,  Richard,   156. 

,  Robert,  426. 

,  Thomas,  336. 

,  Warin,  156. 

,  William,  cordwainer  of  Lon- 
don,   524. 

Aleynson,  Aleynesson,  John,  247. 

,  William,  of  Scotland,  263. 

Alfide,  Halfide,  Alexander,  of  Essex, 
67. 

Robert,  of  London,   113. 

,  Thomas,   113, 


Alfons,  Fernando,   529. 

,  John,  knight,  529. 

Roderigo,   529. 

Alford,  Richard,   82,   83. 

Cf.   Aldeford. 

Alfox,     Benedict,    woodmonger,     of 

London,  281. 
Alfres,   Roderigo,   529. 
Algarkirk,  Algerkyrke  [co.  Lincoln], 

parson     of.     See     Ravenser, 

John. 
Alger,  John,  265. 
Algerkyrke.     See  Algarkirk. 
Algod,  William,  parson  of  Corring- 

ham,   507. 
alien  friars,  spies  among,  44. 

incumbents,  65. 

litigants,  provision  of  counsel 

for,    130. 

merchants,  protection  of,  422. 

priories,  128,  423. 

spies,  44,  139. 

Aliene,  Alliene,  Thomas,  of  Ashby, 

198,  202. 
aliens,  413. 

,  taxation  of,  167. 

Alkebarewe,   Alkebarowe,   John  de, 

of  Pinchbeck,  62. 
,   Thomas,   M.A.,   of   Oxford, 

476. 
Alkerton,  Alcrinton,  Alcrynton,  co. 

Oxford,  455,  461. 
Alkham,    John,    cousin   of   William 

Archer,  316. 
Allensmore,     co.     Hereford,      Mere 

Court,  Mere  in,  351. 
Aller,  Aire  [co.  Somerset],  parson  of. 

See  Vyriour,  William. 
Allerthorp,  Lawrence  de,  clerk,  348. 
Allerton,  John,  222. 
Allesley,    co.    Warwick,    manor    of, 

188,  189. 
Allesley,  William,  122. 
Allestre,    Nicholas,    of    Rotherham, 

357. 
Allexton,   Adelokdston,    Adelokston, 

Adloxton,   co.    Leicester,   fee 

in,   190,   191. 

,  manor  of,  149. 

,  rector  of.     See  Shepesheved, 

Thomas  de. 
AlDiallows  in  Hoo,  co.  Kent,  468. 
Alliene.     See  Aliene. 
AUington,  Athelyngton,  co.  Dorset, 

manor  of,  129. 
Allocott,  Adelescote  [in  Wellington], 

co.  Salop,  483. 
Almain,  merchants  of,   54. 
almonds,  291. 
Alne  [co.   York],   391. 


GENERAL     INDIA 


Aha- — OOMJ. 

Tollertoo  in,   891. 

AIiii'.-Immii'iu1.  Aleeborne  [in  Nacton, 

DO.    BuSblk],    prior   of,    510. 

Alnwick,  Alnewyk  [oo.  Nbrthumber- 
land],  abbol  of,  32,  151. 

Alpheton  [co.  Buffolk],  •">•">(>. 

Aire.     Sm  AUer. 

Alnnton.     Set    Arlington. 

Alston,   Thomas,    111. 

Althorpe  [oo.  Lincoln],  paraons  of. 
Spaigne,  Nicholas  de ; 
Btanwj  g,   \\  illiam, 

Alton.  Aulton  [oo.   Santa],  556. 

Hoi  ton  |  in  Rook],  oo.  Wor- 
cester, fee  in.  493. 

Barnes,  Aulton  Bernera,  co. 

Wilts.  ad\  OWSOn  of,   -!3(>. 

manor  of,  -23t>. 

Alton.  John,  of   Froyle,  526. 

Al\  ytliclc.       S(  •       \\  cloy. 
Alwys.  John,   l'.t.'t. 
Alvngton.  Alice  wife  of  Robert   de, 
09. 

Robert  de.  99. 

Cf.  Athelyngton. 

Amberden.     Stt  Btamperden. 
Ambleside,    Jlamolsate,    co.    West- 

moreland,  144. 
Ambleeton,    co.    Pembroke,    Wood- 
stock,  Wodestoke  in,    506. 
Ambresbury.     See  Amesbuiy. 
Ambreston,  John,  336. 
Ambrosden,    co.     Oxford,    Arncott, 

Arnecote  in,   55. 
Amenos,       Arnald,      merchant      of 

Catalonia.    196. 
Ament.  Richard,  capper,  523. 
Amersham,  Amondesham,  Amounde- 
sham,    co.    Buckingham,    ad- 
vowson  of,  25. 

,  fee  in,  24. 

,  Whelpleyes  and  Semanes  in, 

483. 
Amesbury,  Ambresbury  [co.  Wilts], 

manor  of,  154. 
Amondesham.     See   Amersham. 
Amondesham,     John,     coroner     of 

Surrey,   140. 
Amotbrigge.    See  Eamont  Bridge. 
Amoundemess,  Aymondirnesse 

forest,  co.  Lancaster,  election 
of  verderer  of,  312. 
Amoundesham.     See  Amersham. 
Amour,  Jolin,  522. 
Amyas,  John  de,  65,  66. 

,  Walter,   1 35. 

,  clerk,   105,  248,  249, 

286,  287,  433. 
Amys,   Sara,   1 77. 


Anandale      Sto   Annandali 
ancient  demesne,  privilege  of,  36, 
Ancroft,  William  de,   I  33 
Andover,  oo.   Bants,  258 

deed  dated  at,  258. 

prior)  of,  4.'!. 

prior  and   <  on\  ent  of, 

251,  256. 
Andrew,    Andreu,    Andru,     .lames, 

citizen  oi    London,   132,  133, 

230,  231. 
Lewis.  Lombard,  attorney  of 

merchanl  -  of  Florence,  (,'ata- 

lonia  and    Piacenza,   329. 

,  of  Florence,  94,  99. 

,  merchant,  54. 

Nicholas.   360. 

William,  366. 

bishop    of    Achonry, 

166. 

See  Fitz  Androwe. 

Andriaco,  John  do,  monk  of  Holy 

Trinity,    York,    183. 
\udru.     See  Andrew. 
Anegos.     See  Angus. 
Anescote.     See  Ascote. 
Aneety.     See   Ansty. 
Angoe.     See  Angus. 
Anu'oumois.      Engemoys      [France], 

254. 
Angreham.     See   Ingram. 
Angus,  Anegos,  Angos  [Forfarshire], 

earl    of.       See    Umframville, 

Gilbert  de. 
An-hunoc,  Haimynyok,  co.  Cardigan, 

commote  of,  406. 
Anjou,    Anjow    [France],    254,    316. 
Annandale,     Anandale     [Dumfries- 
shire. Scotland],  constable  of 

lordship  of.       See  Stapelton, 

William  de. 
Annore,     Richard,     warden    of     St. 

Katherine's      chapel,      Wan- 
borough,   534. 
Anselmi,  Francis,  of  Majorca,  ship 

master,  196. 
Ansty,    Anesty,    Elizabeth    wife    of 

Robert  de,  68. 
,  John,     vicar    of    Cricklade, 

100. 

,  Robert  de,  68. 

Antioche,  John,  267,  460. 

Antoyn,  Antonii,  Anton v,  Bernard, 

172. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  merchant       of        the 

society     of     the     Strozzi     in 

London,  440. 
,  . .  .  . ,  of  the  society  of  Paz- 

zinus  de  Strozzis,  of  Florence, 

472,  474. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


569 


Ap.     See  Adam,  Appoelyn,  Eynoun, 
Owayn,  Prees,  Rees,  Waryn. 
Apetliorp,   Philip  de,  Philip,  parson 
of  Houghton,   549. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of   Little  Cas- 

terton.   169. 
William  de.  coroner  of  Lin- 
colnshire, 497. 
Apley,     co.     Lincoln,     Kingthorpe, 

Kynthorp  in,  153. 
Appelby.    See  Appleby. 
Appilthwayt.    See  Applethwaite. 
Appilton,  Adam  de,  chaplain,  103. 
Appleby,  Appelby,  co.  Leicester,  fee 
in,  190,  191. 

,  co.  Lincoln,  472. 

,  co.  Westmoreland,  53. 

,  Hilton,  Heltonbacoun 

and  Kirkber,  Kirkebergh    in, 
53. 
Appleby,  Appelby,  Edmund  de,  468. 

,   .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Derby,    428. 

,  John  de,  51 7. 

,  .  .  .  .,  dean    of     St.     Paul's. 

London,  517,  523. 
Thomas  de,   bishop  of  Car- 
lisle, 268,  313,  314. 

,  .  .  . . ,  receiver  and  apprower 

of  Guernsey,  Sark  and  Alder- 
ney,    41 3. 

,  William  de,    190,   191. 

Applethwaite,  Appilthwayt  [in  Win- 
dermere], co.  Westmoreland, 
144. 
Appoelyn,  David,  327. 
apprentices  of  the  king's  court,  210, 

211. 
Apuldrefeld,  Henry,  Henry  de,  98. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Henry  de,  98. 

Aquitaine.  114,  316,  444,  535. 

,  prince  of.     See  Edward. 

,  seneschal    of.      See   Felton, 

Thomas  de. 
Aragon.     See  Arragon. 
arbalesters,   165. 
Archath.     See  Ardcath. 
Archebaud,  Erchebaud,  Erchebauld, 
Piers,  205. 

,  Richard,  of  Stanwick,  203. 

,  WTilliam,  64. 

,  . .  . . ,  assewer,  258. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  serjeant  and 

assewer,  393. 
Archenfield,  Irchenfeld  [co.  Here- 
ford], lord  of.  See  Talbot, 
Gilbert. 
Archer,  John  Alkham  son  of  Cristina 
sister  of  William  son  of 
William,  316. 


Archer — cont. 

,  William,  316. 

Archereston.     See  Archerstoun. 

archers,  389. 

English,   in  Ireland,    170. 

Archerstown,  Archereston  [in  Lis- 
downey,  co.  Kilkenny], 
Ireland,  46. 

Archyngworth.      See   Arthingworth. 

Ardcath,  Archath  [co.  MeathJ.  Ire- 
land, presentations  to  church 
of.  152. 

Ardelay.     See  Ardleigh. 

Ardenbourch.     See   Aardenburg. 

Arden  Hall,  Ardernohalle  in  Horn- 
don  [on  the  Hill],  co.  Essex, 
manor  of,  521. 

Arderne,  Henry  de,  55,  341. 

,  .....  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of   oyer   and  ter- 
miner in  Warwickshire,   474. 

,  John,   245. 

Roger  de.  93. 

,  Walter,   300,   453,  455,  464, 

514,  515. 

,  William,  of  Kent,  217. 

Ardernohalle.     See  Arden  Hall. 

Ardleigh,  Ardelay,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 
22. 

Argentem,  Agnes  wife  of  John,  157. 

,  John,    157. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  1 57. 

Argentems  in  Melbourne,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, manor  of ,  157. 

Arkesden,  Arkisdene,  co.  Essex, 
WTigpet,  Wikepet  in,  22. 

,  Wood  Hall,    Wodehalle    in, 

169. 

Arlington,  Alrinton  [in  Bibury),  co. 
Gloucester,  fee  in,  307,  308. 

Armes,  Richard  des,  218. 

Armestrang,  Armes  traungge.  See 
Armstrang. 

armour  and  arms,  297,  405. 

,  prohibition  of  secrot  sale  of, 

358. 

Armourer,  Giles,  359. 

arms,  bearing  of,  287. 

,  seal  of,  452. 

Armstrang,  Armestrang,  Armes- 
traungge,  Adam,  482. 

,  Roland,    532. 

Arnald.     See  Arnold. 

Arnaut,  William,  of  Mont    Valour, 

114. 
Arnays,  John,  275,  276. 
Arncott.  Arnocote  [in  Ambrosden,  co. 

Oxford],  56. 
Arnold,  Arnald,  John,  224. 

,  ....  eon  of,  do  Brunby,  1 63. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Arnold-  ooti/. 

Richard,  goldsmith,  of  Lon- 
don, 207. 
AxondelL  Aroundell.     Set   Arundel. 
Arquato     Bartholomew    de.  bod   of 

EN  bar,  notary    public,    1 96. 
Arragon.     Aragon,     U  i  n  lt    of.       Set 
l\ 
19,   »;••_'. 
Arringtan,   Aruyngton,   Arwyngton, 
<     tnbridge,  260,  .'<2.'{.  349. 

manor  of,  67. 

arrow  s.  386. 

arson  in  time  oi  ]  i  86. 

Arthingworth,     Archyngworth,     co. 

Northampton,  22 
Arthur,  Arthour,  Richard,  307. 
artillery .  I 

Arturet,  William  do.  .~>\. 
Arundel,  Arondell  [co.   Sussex],  earl 

of.     Set    l  it /Alan.   Richard. 
Arundel,  Arondell,  Aroundell,  Arun- 
dell,     BrendeU,     Daroundell, 
Danmdoll.  Edmund.  Edmund 
de,651. 

knigJit.  227,  229,  329, 

413,   414.   611. 

Eleanor  wife  of  John,  145. 

John,  John  de,  145. 

knight,  331,  432. 

.......  . .  .  . , son  of    Richard, 

earl  of  Arundel,   251,   458. 

,  Kichard  de.  50. 

,  Roger,   lord   of  Halse,    6. 

Thomas  de,  bishop  of  Ely, 

74,  479. 

Cf.    FitzAlan. 

Aruyngton,  Arwyngton.  See  Arling- 
ton. 
Aschefeld.       See    Asshfeld. 
Ascombe,  William,  of  London,  332. 
Ascot  under  Wychwood,  Astcote,  co. 

Oxford,  manor  of,  28. 
Ascote,  Anescote  [in  Pattishall],  co. 
Northampton,  manor  of,  175, 
374. 
Ase.     See  Ace. 
Asethorp.     See  Aisthorpe. 
Ash,  Asshe  [in  Louth,  co.   Louth], 
Ireland,  manor  of,  238,  239, 
243,    245. 

next     Ridley,     Asshe,     co. 

Kent,  manor  of,  186. 
Ash  by,  Assheby  [co.  Leicester],  198, 
202. 

,  Askeby,  co.  Suffolk,  247. 

,  Canons,     co.  Northampton, 

prior  of,  294. 

,  Castle,   Assheby  Davy,   co. 

Northampton,  fee  in,   189. 


Aahby—  rout. 

Cold.      Coldaasheb] .       co. 

Northampton,  316. 

de    la    Zouoh,    Assheby    la 

Zouche  [co.  Leicester],  lord 
of.  See  Zouche,  Hugh  la. 
^ahcombe,  Asshcombe  [in  Weeton 
super  Blare],  co.  Somerset,  fee 
in.  :{(»7. 
Ishdon  Asslicdon.  Asshedoun,  co. 
Essex,  76,  203. 

manor  of,   116,   117,  223. 

Over  Hull,  Overhall  in,   76. 

Laheldham,  Asshildham,  co.  Essex, 
fee  in.  •_'•_'. 

,  manor  of,  16.  17. 

Ashendon,    co.    Buckingham,    Polli- 

cott.  Peb'cote,  Policote  in,  91. 

Ash  ford.     Asshetesford,     co.     Kent, 

manor    of,    haywardwyk    of, 

47. 

,  .  .  .  .,  issues  of,  47. 

,  .  .  .  .,  keeper  of,  47. 

Ashill,  Asshele,  Asshle,  co.  Norfolk, 

manor  of,  187,  188,  286. 
Ashingdon,    Asshyndon,    co.    Essex, 

179. 
Ashley,  Asshelee,  co.  Cambridge,  108, 
201. 

,  Asshele   [in   Ringwood,    co. 

Hants],  bailiff  of.     See  Wille, 
Luke. 
Ash  ton,  Assheton,  Aston,  Esshton  [in 
Lancaster],  co.  Lancaster,  38. 

,  .  .  . . ,  fee  in,  500. 

,  .  .  .  .,  manor  of,    38,    144. 

,  Asshton,   co.    Somerset,  fee 

in,  307. 
Askeaton,   Inskysty   [co.   Limerick, 
Ireland],  manor  of,  145,  146. 
Askeby.    See  Ashby. 
Askeby,  Richard,  parson  of  Work- 
ington, 150. 

,  Walter  de,  clerk,  540. 

,  William,    William   de,    234, 

240. 

Cf.  Assheby. 

Asketyn,   Alice  wife  of  John,   434, 
435. 

,  John,  434,  435. 

Askham,  Brian,  Askham,  co.  York, 

manor  of,  155. 
Askwyth,  John  de,  337. 
Aslakby,   Alice   wife   of   Ralph   de, 

331. 
Asphull,  John,  456. 
Asschewelle.     See  Asshewell. 
Assh.     See  Aish. 

Asshbournhamme.    See  Asshebourn- 
ham. 


OEXERAL    INDEX. 


571 


Asshcombe.     See  Ashcombe. 

Asshe.     See  Ash. 

Asshe,  Walter,  173. 

Assheborne,  Assheburne,  William, 
William  de,  283. 

, ,  chaplain,  231,  232. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  London,  merchant, 

344. 

Assheboumham,  Asshboumhamme, 
Asshebornham.  Asshebourne- 
ham,  Assheburnham  Roger 
de,  Roger,  107,  108,  109,  111, 
201,207.  446.447,  521,  531. 

Assheburne.     6'ee  Assheborne. 

Assheburnham.  See  Assheboum- 
ham. 

Assheby.     See  Asliby. 

Assheby,  John,  son  of  Margery  sister 
of  Richard  de  Braundeston, 
142. 

Cf.  Askeby. 

Assheden,  William  de,  of  Long  Wit- 
tenham,  350. 

Asshedon,  Asshedoun.  See  Ash- 
don. 

Asshefeld.    See  Asshfeld. 

Assheford,  William.  224. 

Asshele.     See  Ashill,  Ashley. 

Asshelee.     See   Ashley. 

Assheman,  Wilham,  113. 

Asshetesford.     See  Ash  ford. 

Assheton.     See  Ashton. 

Assheton,  Aisshton,  Asshton,  Aston, 
Essheton,  Hugh  de,  justice  of 
assize  in  Gloucestershire,  276. 

,  John,    John   de,    citizen   of 

York,  433. 

,  .  .  . . ,  palf reyman,  524. 

,  Richard  de,  coroner  of  Lan- 
cashire,   296. 

,  Robert  de,    303,    307,    368, 

469. 

,; ,  .  .  .  .,  justiciary   of   Ireland, 

170,  171. 

, knight,    96,    444,    462, 

484. 

, ,  of  Gloucester- 
shire,   205. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  . .  .  . ,  the  chamber- 
lain, 466. 

,  .....  . .  . . ,  the  king's  but- 
ler, 292,  293. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,    the    treasurer, 

270,  272,  281,  302,  339,  363, 
433,  444. 

,  William,  William  de,  clerk, 

332,   341,   461. 

,  . .  .  . ,  son  of  Katherine  atte 

Chambre,  29. 

Assheton  under  Lyme,  John  de,  51 9. 


Asshewell,     Asschewelle,     Asshwell, 

John,    John   de,    92,    457. 
,     of    Nottinghamshire, 

518. 
the    king's    serjeant, 

363. 
Asshfeld,  Aschefeld,  Asshefeld,  John, 

chaplain,  326. 
,  Robert   de,    234,   355,    356, 

537-539. 
Asshildham.     See  Asheldham. 
Asshle.     See  Ashill. 
Asshton.     See  Assheton,   Ashton. 
Asshurst,  John,  281. 
Asshwell.     See  Asshewell. 
Asshyndon.     See    Ashingdon. 
Assington.  Aston,  co.  Suffolk,  manor 

of,  351,  354-356. 
Astcote.     See  Ascot. 
Astele.     See  Astley. 
Astelegh.  Astelee,  Alice  daughter  of 

Robert  de,  328. 
.......  Peter,  225. 

,  Robert  son  of  Hugh  de,  328. 

,  Roger  son  of  Robert  de,  328. 

Astelyn,  Henry,  272. 
\stery,  Rotelyn  de,  servant  of  the 

prince  of  Wales,  470. 
Astewyk.     See  Astwyk. 
Asthorp,  William,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Devon,  537. 
Astley,  Astele  [co.  Worcester],  alien 

priory  of,  128. 
Aston     Cantlow,     Cauntelowe,     co. 

Warwick,  manor  of,  188,  189. 
, Shelfield,   Shefhull  in, 

191,  192. 
Flamville,    Aston,    co.     Lei- 
cester, fee  in,  190,  191. 
Rowant,  Aston  Rohant  [co. 

Oxford],  deeds  dated  at,  539. 
,  lord    of.      See    Cham- 

pernoun,  Richard. 
,   Copcourt,     Coppecote 

and   other   places  named   in, 

539. 
sub    Edge,    co.    Gloucester, 

Norton  in,  455. 
upon  Trent  [co.  Derby],  par- 
son of.    See  Cotton,  Henry  de. 
See     Ashton,      Assington, 

Munslow. 
Aston.     See  Assheton. 
Astwood,  Astwode  [in  Wichbold],  co. 

Worcester,  fee  in,  493. 
Astwyk,  Astewyk,  Henry,  of  Hert- 
fordshire, 88. 

,  Roger  de,  39. 

Asty,  Henry,  Henry  de,    396,    397, 

467. 


GENERAL     [NDEX. 


llonry — < 

ohief    bazoo    of     1 1 1<< 

i  Kohequer,     I 

justioe,  299,  300 

,  i>i  Heckington,  202. 

Athemey,    Athelyngnye    [in    Lu 

Som<  reel .  abbot  and  con- 
vent of,  26] 

Athelyngton.     Set   Allington. 

Athelyngton,  William,  643. 

Cf.  Alyngton, 

Atherton,  Henry  de,  of  ETJndley,  334. 

Athol,   Atholl   [Perthshire],  carl  of. 
Btrabolgi,  I  >n\  id  de. 

Atkynnea    Robert,  92,  93. 

Aton,  William  de,  •">-_)9. 

guardian    of    the    peace 

and  justice  in  the  East  Eliding 
of  Yorkshire,  4(>.~>.  666. 

Atte.  Set  1'.. ii  int.  Barre,  Here, 
Bergh,  Rot  ho,  Boure,  Bourne, 
Bregge,  Brigge,  Bm 
Burwe,  ( lapel,  Celer,  Chambre, 
Chert.  (,'hureho.  Corner, 
Crosse,  Dene,  Fenne,  Forde, 
Frit  he.  Gappe,  Gate,  Gore, 
ae,  ( rrove.  Hale,  Halle, 
Haiiiire.  Hegge.  Hetlie.  Hille, 
Boo,  House,  Hulle,  Hyde, 
Kirke,  Knyhtes,  Lathe,  Lee, 
Legee,  Lithe,  Lye,  March, 
Mede,  Melle.  Merk,  Mersh, 
Milne.  More.  Nasshe,  Oke, 
Park,  Penno,  Pirye,  Pole, 
Ponde,  I've.  Rewe,  Kiddyng, 
Kithe.  Stile.  Strete,  Suthend, 
Taberd,  Walle,  Water,  Welde, 
W  'lie,  Wente,  Whitebrigge, 
\\  ike,  Wode,  Wodeton, 
Yate. 

Atteflete,  William,  426. 

Attewatre,  Andrew,  426. 

Cf.    By  thewater,  Water. 

Aubrey,  Aubray,  Aubry,  Andrew, 
clerk  to  receive  recognizances 
of  debt  in  London,  235. 

,  . .  . . ,  pepperer,  of    London, 

351. 

,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John,  83. 

,  John,  27,  358,  362,  424,  461. 

,  . .  .  . ,  alderman  of   London, 

332,  341. 

,  . .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  204, 

253,   256,   331. 

,  . .  .  . ,  merchant  of  London, 

41,  440. 

, ,  of  London,  235,  276. 

, sheriff  of  London,  358. 

,  ....  son   of    Andrew,    351, 

353. 


Aubrey,  John  son  of  Andrew     oorU. 

citizen    of      Lon 

don.  B       i  ■ 

Maud  u  iti-  of  John,  82, 

Walter,  368,  367. 

oi  Fawler,  i'_'l. 

William.  2. 

Aubj  n.  Richard,  62  i. 

vicar  of    Leamington 

Hastings,  I 

William,  clerk.  624. 

Aucher,  Sibyl,  abbess  of  Wilton,  33. 

Audele,  Audelec  Audeleye,  Elizabeth 
wile  of  Nicholas  de,  79,  80, 
386,  ~>47. 

Isabel  wife  of  James  de,  79. 

James  de    79,  307,  498. 

,  of    Heighley,    knight, 

187. 

Nicholas  de,  386,  487. 

,  knight,  f>40. 

,  lord  of  Cemaes, 

-.17.  .148. 

son   of   James   de,    of 

Heighley,  79,  80. 

Audley,     co.     Stafford,     Audley    of 
'Heighley  in.  79,  80,  487. 

Augst,  Walter  de,  verderer  of  the 
forest  of  Dean,  181. 

Aukeland,  Aukelond,  Richard  de,  54. 

,  Robert  de,  vicar  of  Hart- 
burn,  35. 

Aulton.     See  Alton. 

Aumale,  Aumarele.     See  Albemarle. 

Auncell,  Auncel,  John,  459. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lincoln,  536. 

Aunesleye,  Hugh  de,  511. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Notting- 
hamshire, 494. 

,  John  de,  knight,  525. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Nottingham,  536. 

,  Thomas  de,  of  Nottingham- 
si  tire,  525. 

Aunger,  Michael,  237. 

Aunis,  Agenoys  [France],  254. 

Aure,  John,  91. 

Aureney,  Aurneye.     See  Alderney. 

Austin  friars,  friars  hermits  of  the 
order  of  St.  Augustine.  See 
friars. 

Austyn,  John,  chaplain,  196. 

Autryve,  William,  461. 

Auvergne  [France],  254. 

Avebury,  co.  Wilts,  Beckhampton, 
Bakamton  in,   124. 

,  West    Kennet,    Westkenete 

in,  520. 

Aveley,  Alvythele,  co.  Essex,  244. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


573 


Aveley — cont. 

,  Bumpsted  Hall,  Bumpstede- 

halle  in,  23. 
Avene.     See  Avon. 
Avenel,  Avenell,  John,  knight,   63, 

66. 
, knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cambridge,   429. 
«.....,  . . . . ,  of  Gamlingay,  51 7. 
Averham  [co.  Nottingham],   396. 

,  manor  of,  396. 

Avignon,     Avinon     [France,     dep. 

Vaucluse],  165.  171. 
,  chapter  of   the  hospital   of 

St.  John  of  Jerusalem  at,  330. 
Avon,  Avene  Tin  Sopley],  co.  Hants, 

284. 
Axholme,    Axiholme    [co.    Lincoln], 

Mowbray  of,  18,  280. 
Aycoscoghsh.     See  Aiskew. 
Ayermyn.     See  Ayremyn. 
Ayete,  Ayett,  Alan,  Alan  de,  281.  550. 

,  .....  of   Shalstone,    549. 

Aylesbury  [co.  Buckingham],  244. 
Aylesbury,  John,  John  de,  knight, 

245,  266,  267,  354. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Buckingham,  429. 
Aylesford,  Aillesford,  co.  Kent,  Cos- 

ington.  Cosyngton  in,  101. 
Eccles  and  Tottington,  Tet- 

yndon,  Totyngton  in,  507. 
Aylesham,  Ailsham.  Jolin.  coroner  of 

Cambridgeshire,    187. 

,  Thomas,  471. 

,  William,    clerk,    parson    of 

Lanteglos  by  Camelford.  384. 

385. 
Aylestpn,  Adam  de,  525. 
Aylewyn.     See  Alewyn. 
Aylmar,  William..  227. 
Aylton,  John  de,  parson  of  Haver- 
hill, 323. 
Aymeri,  Gilbert,  merchant  of  Lom- 

bardy  in  London,  375. 

,  .  . . .,  of  Lucca,   393. 

Aymondirnesse.     See  Amounderness. 
Aynho,    Eynow,    co.    Northampton, 

manor  of,  195,  432. 
Ayot  St.  Lawrence,  Laurence,  Eyzot, 

co.  Hertford,  89,  268. 

,  manor  of,    350. 

Ayremyn,    Ayermyn,    Eirmyn,    Er- 

myn,     Eyremyne,     Eyrmyn, 

John,  Jolin  de,  clerk,  82,  98. 
,  William,  keeper  of  the  house 

of  Converts,  147. 

,  .  .  .  .,  king's  clerk,  33. 

,  . . . . ,  .....  treasurer  of  Cal- 
ais, 404. 


Ayremyn,  William — cont. 

,  of     Silk    Willoughby, 

82. 

Aysgarth,  co.  York,  Burton,  New- 
biggin  and  Thoralby,  Thorald- 
by  in,  138,  144. 


B 


Baa, 


Thomas,  155. 

,  William  Corbet  son  of  Eliza- 
beth sister  of  Thomas,  155. 

Baars,  Baas,  Katherine  daughter  of 
Jolin,  of  Cottisford,  280,  281, 
289. 

,  Roese     (Kynbell)     wife     of 

John,  280,  281. 

Babbeworthponte.  See  Babor 
bridge. 

Babbyngle,  Babvngle,  John,  clerk, 
68,  230. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Deal.  237. 

Babeton.     See  Bapton. 

Babor  bridge,  Babbeworthponte  in 
Isleworth  [co.  Middlesex],  214. 

Babraham.  Badobunrham.  co.  Cam- 
bridge, 532. 

,  Badburghamhay  in.    532. 

Babstoke.     See  Baverstock. 

Babyngle.     See   Babbyngle. 

Bache,  Thomas,  king's  clerk,  over- 
seer of  the  king's  retinues  in 
Ireland,  389. 

Bacheler,  Bachiler,  John.  1 95. 

,  Ralph,  247. 

Backwell,    Bakwell, 
fees  in,  307. 

,  parson     of. 

John. 

bacon  pigs,  404. 

Bacoun.  John,  of  Broome,  84. 

Robert,  of  Dickleburgh,  400, 

491,  492. 

Badbury,  Baddebury  [in  Chiseldon, 
co.  Wilts].  534. 

Badby,  Baddeby  [co.  Northampton], 
78. 

Baddebury.     See  Badbury. 

Baddeby.     See  Badby. 

Baddeby,  John  do,  219. 

,  Thomas  do,  treasurer  of  Ire- 
land, 312,  35.-). 

Badeburgham.     See  Babraham. 

Badelkyng.     See  Balking. 


co 


Somerset, 
See     Lupyete, 


GENERAL  IXDKX. 


Badowo.   Bad\\<\    Hugh  do.   kniu'ht. 

l-.if..   n»;.  .»»:.  68 

of     Ban,     32 

83. 

John.  510. 

Badham.  John  do.  of  Gloucester- 
shire. 83. 

Bftdmondisfield,  Badmondesfeld  [in 
Wiokhambrook],  co.  Suffolk, 
manor  of.  187.  188. 

Badsworth.  co.  York.  Upton  in,  148. 

Badwe.     See  Badewe. 

Bagepuz.  John  de.  190,  191. 

Bagge.   Joan.    143. 

John,  143. 

son  of  John,   143. 

Baggrid^e.  Bakerich  [in  Wollow],  co. 
Somerset,  fee  in.  307. 

Baildon.  Bavldon.  co.  York,  59. 

Baill',  Martin  do.  162. 

Bailly.  Baylli.  Henry,  burgess  of 
South  war  k  in  parliament, 
430. 

Jolin,  of  Southam,  401. 

Bainton,  Baynton,  co.  York.  233. 

manor  of,   148. 

Baion,  Baioun.     See  Bayonne. 

Bakamton.     See  Beckliampton. 

Bakenholme,  John,  329. 

Baker,  Jolin.  1 78,  524. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chaplain,   309. 

,  parson     of     Eastwell, 

178. 

son  of  John,  of  Withers- 
field,  366. 

,  Nicholas,  of  Middleton,  355. 

,  Richard,  551. 

,  Robert,  222,  542. 

,  Thomas,      master     of     the 

Seinte  Marie  cogg,  387. 

Bakerich.     See  Baggridge. 

Bakesterfeld  in  Esshescogh,  co.  Lan- 
caster, fee  in,  500. 

Baketon,  Thomas,  198,  199. 

, clerk,  116,  117,  203. 

William,  203. 

clerk,    116,    117. 

Bakewell,  Baucwell,  Nicholas  de, 
225,  226. 

Bakhous,  John,  100. 

Bakwell.     See  Backwell. 

Balbo,  John,  73. 

Baldewyne,  Jolin.  235,  237,  343,  344. 

,  William,  William  de,  saddler, 

of  London,  332,  341,  461. 

Baldoyle,  Balidoyle  [co.  Dublin], 
parliament  at,    10. 

Baldrit,  William,  of  London,  mason, 
344. 

Baldyngdon.     See  Baldyngton. 


Baldynghoro.     See  BaUinger. 
Baldyngton,    Baldyngdon,    Baldyn- 

ton.  Jolin  de,  148. 
,  .  .  . . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Oxford,  340. 
, keeper  of  St.  Frides- 

wido's  priory,  Oxford,  15,  38. 
Bale,  William,  of  Canterbury,  205. 

Cf.  Bayle. 

Balidoylo.  See  Baldoyle. 
Baligary.  See  Garristown. 
Balking,  Badelkyng  [in  Uffington,  co. 

Berks],  425. 
Ballo,  Nicholas,  215. 
Ballerig',  Henry  de,   500. 
Ballesham.     See  Balsham. 
BaUinger,  Baldynghore  by  Massyng- 

deno  [in  Great  Missenden],  co. 

Buckingham,  fee  in,  24. 
Ballygunner,  Belliconar,  co.  Water- 
ford,  manor  of,  298. 
Balscote  [in  Wroxton],  co.  Oxford, 

455,  461. 
Balsham,  Ballesham,  co.  Cambridge, 

343. 
Balshangels,  William  de,  510. 
Balygary.     See  Garristown. 
Balymund,  Baylemond,  William,  52, 

260. 
Bamborough  [co.  Northumberland], 

letters  close  dated  at,  560. 
Bampton,  co.  Oxford,  466. 
Bampton,  John,  John  de,  227,  324, 

343,  464,  549. 
,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Essex,    536. 
Banastre,  Adam,  354. 

,  William,  307. 

Banbury,   Bannebury,   John,    M.A., 

of  Oxford,  476. 
,  Robert,   verderer  of   Chute 

forest,  409. 
Bandon  [in  Beddington,  co.  Surrey], 

-      218. 
Bangor  [co.  Carnarvon],   bishop  of. 

See  Gilbert,  John. 
,  bishopric    of,    guardians    of 

spiritualities  of,  285. 
Banke,   John  del,   guardian  of  the 

peace  in  the  West  riding  of 

Yorkshire,  554. 
Bannebury.     See  Banbury. 
Bantyngge,  John,  510. 

Cf.  Bontyng. 

Banyard.      See  Baynard. 

Bapton,  Babeton  [in  Fisherton  Dela- 

mere],  co.  Wilts,  323. 
Barbour,   Barebour,   Isabel  wife  of 

William,  65,  66. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


575 


Barbour — cont. 

. ,  James,  of  Boston,  351,  353. 

,  John,  208. 

,  ....  son  of  William,  65. 

,  Maud,  65,  66. 

,  . . . . ,  Margaret  her  servant, 

65. 

,  Robert,  Robert  le,  248,  252. 

,  of  Bristol,  219. 

,  ,  of   Huntingdon,    329. 

, of  Ware,  543. 

,  Walter,  74. 

Barde,  Durand  son  of  John,  244. 

,  Joan  wife  of  John,  12,  244. 

,  John,  244. 

Bardeby.     See  Bardesby. 
Bardefeld.     See  Barfield. 
Bardenaye.     See  Bardney. 
Bardesby,  Bardeby,  John  de,  clerk, 

152. 
,  William  de,  parson  of  Ard- 

cath,  152. 
Bardesey.     See  Bardsey. 
Bardeston.     See  Bradeston. 
Bardney,    Bardenaye,    co.    Lincoln, 

abbot  of,  161,  162. 
Bardolf,  Robert,  534. 
,  William,  lord  of  Wormegay, 

349. 
Bardsey,  Bardesey  [co.  Carnarvon], 

abbot   and   convent   of,    405, 

406. 
Barebour.     See  Barbour. 
Barentyn,  Andrew,  281,  289. 
Baret,  Agnes,  vt  if e  of  John  Forstall, 

of  Bexley,  248. 

,  Henry,  267,  460,  550. 

,  Simon,  470. 

,  William,  merchant  of  Lon- 
don, 41. 
Barewe,  James  de,  son  of  Maud  Cole- 
man, 34. 

Cf.  Barowe,  Barwe,  Burwe. 

Barewelle.     See    Barwell. 
Bareworth.     See   Barwythe. 
Barfield,  Great,  Great  Bardefeld  [co. 

Essex],  246. 
,  Little,  Little  Bardefeld  [co. 

Essex],  246. 
Barford    St.    Martin,    Bereford    St. 

Martin  by  Wilton,  co.  Wilts. 

241,  518. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  241. 

,  manor    of,    432,    518,    527, 

528. 
Barfot,  Richard,  96. 
Barham,  Bergham  [co.  Suffolk],  514. 
Barker,    John,    chaplain,     vicar    of 

Westbury,  550. 
. . ...  -.,  Ralph,  of  Dore,  284. 


Barker — cont. 

,  Richard,  of  Daventry,  78. 

Barking,  Berkyng,  co.  Essex,  82,  204. 
,  abbess  and  convent  of,  555. 

Barkway,  co.  Hertford,  Newsells, 
Neweseles  in,  lord  of.  See 
Scales,  Roger. 

Barlee,   Barle,  John,  of  Wykes  by 

Newport,  358. 
,  Roger  de,  24. 

barley,  97,  208,  209,  349. 

,  palm,  rent  of,  1 76. 

Barlings,  Barlynges,  co.  Lincoln,  472. 

,  abbot  of,  72,  162. 

Barmbrough,  Barneburgh,  co.  York, 
manor  of,  538. 

Barmby,  Barneby  by  Pocklington 
[co.  York],  560. 

Barnabe,  Robert,  472. 

Barndeslegh.     See  Barnsley. 

Barneburgh.     See  Barmbrough. 

Barneburgh,  Roger  de.  clerk,  212. 

Barneby.     See  Barmby. 

Barnet,  Friern,  co.  Middlesex,  Hal- 
wick,  Halewyk  in,  266. 

Barnet,  Thomas  atte,  97. 

Barnetby  le  Wold,  Bernetby  [co. 
Lincoln],  451. 

Barneton.     See  Barrington. 

Bameton,  John  de,  parson  of  Little 
Shelford,  343. 

Barneville,  Barnevylle,  John,  116. 

,  Thomas,  13,  14. 

Barn  Hall,  Berwaldon  [in  Layer 
Marney],  co.  Essex,  deed 
dated  at,  453. 

,  manor  of.  453,  455. 

Barnham  Broom,  Bernham,  co. 
Norfolk,  fee  in,  24.  25. 

Barningham,  Town,  Bernyngham, 
Curzon.  Curzoun  [co.  Norfolk], 
354-356. 

Barnoldswick,  co.  York,  Admorgill, 
Admergill  in,  16. 

Barnsley,  Barndeslegh  [co.  Glouces- 
ter], 228. 

Barnston,  Berneston,  co.  Essex,  244. 

fee  in,  22. 

Barnwell,  Bornewolle,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, deeds  dated  at,  260. 

,  manor  of,  181,  266. 

barons,  exemption  of,  from  contribu- 
tion to  expenses  of  knights  of 
the  shire,  414. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  from  jury  service,  52. 

barony,  service  of  moiety  of  one 
fee  of,  144. 

Baroun,  John.  526. 

,  .  .  .  .,  draper,  196. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  136. 


GENERAL     ENDEX. 


S  •  Barrow. 
Barowe,  John  do,   171 

clerk,  J33. 

William  de,   171 . 

I  |  Barewe,  1  larw  e,  Bixrwe. 

Bildebrand,  512. 

,  John.  78, 

at*  !,  349. 

Thomas  de  la,  860. 

Barrmgton,     Barnetan,    oo.     Cam- 
bridge, 250,  823,  540. 
Baryngton  in  Soutpedarton 

hundred.  CO.  BomBTSet,  manor 

of,  204. 
Barrow.  Beret*  [in  Cottesmore],  CO. 
Rutland,  manor  of.  361,  364. 
Qurney,       Mynchenbarwe 

priory  | co.  Somerset],  nun  of. 
( ^ascelyn,   Christina. 
North  and  South  Barwe,  co. 

Somerset,  manor  of,  227. 
upon   Humber,    Barowe,   co. 

Lincoln,  fee  in,  162. 
upon  Soar,  Barwe  upon  Sore, 

co.  Leicester,  manor  of.  140. 
Barrowhy.    Berghby    [co.    Lincoln], 

parson        of.     See       Hudde, 

Henry. 
Barn-.  John,  190. 

'..  .  Thomas  son  of  Philip,  389. 

Hai  sale.  William  de,  551. 
Barsham,  co.  Suffolk.  234. 
Barstable,    Barstaplo    hundred,    co. 

Essex,  constable  of,  6. 
Barstaplo,  John,  merchant  of  Bristol, 

412. 
Bartaille,  William,  250. 

Cf.  Bataille. 

Barthon.     See   Barton. 
Bartlesden.     See  Basildon. 
Bartlow,  Berkelowe  [co.  Cambridge], 

76. 

,  advowson  of,   76. 

,  manor  of,  76. 

Barton,  Berton  [co.  Cambridge],  110. 

,  co.  Lincoln,  fee  in,  161. 

,  co.    Westmoreland,    manor 

of,  165. 
,  .  .  .  . ,   Trestermount,    Tros- 

tormond  in,  165. 
,  Earl's,  Barthon,  Barton,  co. 

Northampton,    35. 

, ,  fees  in,  189,  190. 

in    the    Beans,    Barton,    co. 

Leicester,  fees  in,  190,  191. 
on   Humber,    upon   Humbre 

[co.   Lincoln],   329,   333,   351, 

443,  445,  451,   540. 
,  bailiff  of.      See  Louth, 

Richard  de. 


Barton  on  Huml>er — cont. 
deed  dated  at.  451. 

lord  of,  <  lerk  of    court 

and  council  of.     See  Wilugh- 

by.  John  de. 
,  steward  of.      See 

Kcpyn^halo.    .John   de. 
Stacy,     Berton     Sacy,      co. 

Hants,  advowson  of,  85. 

,  hundred  of,  85. 

manor  of,   85. 

mill  at,  85. 

,  Steeple,  Barton  St.  John,  co. 

Oxford,  manor  of,  293. 
Barton.  John  de,  John,  78,  173,  274, 

278 

,  .....  of  Rydale,  334,  335. 

parson  of   Leckhamp- 

stead.  525. 

,  Jordan  de,  463. 

,  . .  .  .,  citizen  of  London,  59, 

78. 
service  of,  in  chancery, 

398. 
,  Oliver  de,  constable  of  Lin- 
coln castle,  261,  262. 

,  Peter  de,  clerk,  198,  457. 

,  Thomas  de,  50,  51. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  555,  556. 

,  William,  281. 

Cf.  Berton. 

Barwe.     See  Barrow. 

Barwe.  Berwe,  Thomas,  Thomas  de, 

74. 

,  . .  .  . ,  chaplain,  1 96. 

clerk,  228. 

Cf.      Barewe,       Barowe, 

Burwe. 
Barwell,  Barewelle,  co.  Leicester,  fee 

in,  190,  191. 
,  Stapleton,  Stapilton  in,  1 90- 

192. 
Barwick,  Berwyk  co.  Somerset,  ad- 
vowson of  chantry  of,  1 92, 1 93. 
Barwvthe,  Bareworth  [in  Studham], 

co.  Bedford,  328. 
Baryngton.     See  Barrington. 
Baryngton,  John,  of  Hatfield  Broad- 
oak,  237. 
Baschurch,   co.    Salop,   Walford   in, 

173. 
Basildon,    Bartlesden   [in   Laindon], 

co.  Essex,  fee  in,  22. 
Baskerville,  Baskervylle,  Joan  wife 

of  Richard,  181,  294. 
,  John  son  of  Walter,  knight, 

45. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John,  45. 

,  Richard,  Richard  de,  knight, 

181,370,490,491. 


GENERAL 

Baskervile,  Ricliard — cont. 

,  ....  son  of  Ricliard  de,  370. 

Baspaule.     See  Bat  z. 

Basset,  Bassett,  Alice  wife  of  Ralph, 
of  Sapcote,  361. 

,  John,  453. 

,  .....  of  Great  Chishall.  358. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  of  Chris- 
hall,  358. 

Maud.  307. 

,  Ralph.  140. 

,  le  Riche,   191,   192. 

, ,  of  Drayton,  190,  443, 

468. 

,  .  .  .  .,  .  .  .  .,  knight,    414. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Sapcote,  36. 

, , ,  knight,    260. 

Bassingbourn.  Bassingbum,  Bas- 
syngborno,  Bassyngburn,  co. 
Cambridge,  203,  210. 

Bassus,  Peter,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia, 196. 

Bassyngbome.  See  Bassingbourn, 
Bassyngbume. 

Bassyngbourne.     See  Bassyngbume. 

Bassyngburn.     See     Bassin«;boume. 

Bassyngbume,  Bassyngbome,  Bas- 
syngbourne, Robert  de,  02. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  24. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  of  Hertford- 
shire, 211. 

,  Warin  de,  of  Wimpole,  250, 

323. 

bastardy,  414. 

Bastesford.     See  Batesford. 

bastides,  1. 

Basynges,  John,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Rutland,  428. 

William,     master     of     St. 

Mary's  hospital,  Strood.  371. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chief  master  and  clerk 

of    works  at    Rochester    and 
Gravesend,    321. 

Bat.     See  Bate. 

Bataille,  Bataile,  Batayle,  Bataylle, 
John,  77,  360,  453,  455,  463, 
464,    514. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    escheator   in    Essex, 

185. 

,  Ralph,  warden  of  the  king's 

houses  in  the  manor    of    El- 
tham,   502. 

Thomas,  22,  453,  455,  464, 

514. 

,     ....,    escheator    in    Essex, 

395,  481,  492.  493. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Hertfordshire, 

502. 
Cf.  Bartaille. 

Bate,  Bat,  John,  472. 

Wt.  11824. 


INDEX.  577 

Bate,  John — rout. 

, ,  bailiff  of  Lincoln,  226. 

merchant  of   Lincoln, 

474. 

,    .  .  .  .,  of  Kirton,   395. 

Philip,  265. 

Thomas,   210. 

Bateman,  John,   199. 

,   .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  228. 

,  Ralph,  228. 

,  William,  102,  360,  460. 

,   .....  of  Harleton,  45(1. 

Cf.    Batmane,    Beteman. 

Batesford,  Bastesford,  William,  530, 

531. 

,   .  .  .  .,  of  Sussex.  411. 

Bateshalehulle.     See    Batsaddle. 
Bath  [co.  Somerset],  prior  and  con- 
vent of,  446. 
Bath     and    Wells     [co.     Somerset], 

bishop      of.     See      Harewell, 

John. 
Batheleye,  Bathele,  John,  John  de, 

195,  270. 
Batmane,     Robert,    of    Barton    on 

H  umbci-,    451. 

Cf.   Bateman. 

Batsaddle.  Bateshalehulle  [in  Orling- 

bury],  co.  Northampton,  fee 

in,   190. 
Batz,  Baspaule  [France,  dep.  Finis- 

tere],  310. 
,    Ildebas   in    Brittany    [dep. 

Loire-Inferieure],     416,     417, 

489,  490. 
Baucwell.     ^ee  Bakewell. 
Baude,      Elizabeth      (de      Gedyng) 

daughter    of    Joan    wife    of 

William  le,  507. 

,  Joan  wife  of  William  le,  507. 

,  John,  105. 

,  parson  of  Grantchester, 

507. 
,    Thomas    son    of    William, 

knight,  507. 
,  William  le,  William,  knight, 

453,  507. 
Baunsilo,  Joan  (de  Merton)  wife  of 

John,    292. 

John.  292. 

Bautre.     Se<    Bawtry. 

Baverstock,    Babstoke    [co.    Wilts], 

241. 
,     Hurdcott,     Hurdecote    in, 

241. 
Bawtry,  Bautre.  co.  York,  manor  of, 

398. 
Bay,  the.     See  Bourgneuf. 
T,  ,\  I.. i.l.  Bej  lord.  co.  Hertford,  239, 

242,  243,  44<i.   447.   531. 

OB   37 


97H 


QENERAI5    INDEX 


i'>.i\  ford 

...'....  deedi  dated  at.  1 16,  i  it.  531. 

i  Iiism'U  n<  in.    t  Pi     I  IT.   ">.'U  . 

Bayford,  Beyford,  William,  397,  457. 
Bayklon.     >'<<    Bafldon. 
Bayle,  John,  ahip'a  yeoman,  59. 
...'....     Of.   Bale. 
Baylemond.     Sa     Balymund. 

-Hi.     Sta   Baflly. 
Bavnard.  Banyard,  Katharine  wife  of 
Thomas,  172. 

Philip,  226, 

Richard  son  of  Thomas,  456. 

Thomas.  172,  240,  463,  4."((i. 

verderer  of   Waltham 

forest,  .Ml. 
BayiuOiriu'.   Robert   tie.   600. 
Bavnton,  Beynton  [in  Bdington,  co. 
Wilts]',  manor  of.   120. 

See  Bainton. 

Baynton.  Wilham  de.  233. 
Bayonne.    Baion.    Baioun,    Bayoun 
[France,      dep.       Basses-Py- 
renees],  149,  254. 

,  liberties  of,  398. 

mayor,     jurats,      hundred 

peers  and  commonalty  of,  397. 

ship  of.  292. 

Bays.  John,  207,  233,  237,  243,  3G2, 
512,    521. 

,  Robert,  vicar  of  Yeovil,  79. 

Bayton.  John,  92,  93. 
Bealknap,       Belknap,       Belknappc. 
Robert,  Robert  de.  107,  108, 
109.  Ill,  133,  201,  207,  283. 

chief   justice   of    the 

Common  Bench,  249,  25(1. 

,    .  .  .  .,  justice,  259. 

,   in  eyre  in  Kent, 

80,  81. 

, ,  knight,  270,  273,  332, 

456. 
beans.   126,    127. 
Bearne,  Berne  [France],  254. 
Beauehamp.     See  Bollo  Campo. 
Beaufitz,  Robert.  219. 
Beaufront,  Beaufrount  [in  St.  John 
Lee,     co.     Northumberland], 
342. 
Beaufront,    Beaufrount,    John,    266. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Canterbury,  269. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  woolmonger,   of  Lon- 
don, 269. 
Beaugrant,  Beaugraunt,  Agnes  wife 
of  John,  143. 

,  John,  143. 

,    .  .  .  .,  chaplain,   375. 

Beaukeu,  Richard  de,  56. 
Beaumaners,     Robert,     captain     of 
Morlaix,   seal  of,    310. 


Beaumond.  Beaumont.  Sn  r.riio 
Monte, 

Rt'unmnnt  chose,  Beaumond  [by 
Uppingham,  co.  Rutland], 
bailiwick  of,   I B I 

Meaupyne.    lieaupeny,  Thomas,  col- 
lector (it  customs  in  the  port 
of  Bristol.  48H. 
of  Bristol,  502. 

lit  ausiuin  -.   \N  illiam,    166. 

liccaucshowe.    William  do,   533. 

Boccles,  co.  Suffolk.  234. 

Bechefeld.     See    Bitchfield. 

Beckenham,  Bekenliam,  co.  Kent, 
advowBon  of,  335. 

,  manor  of,  335. 

Beckliampton,  Bakamton  [in  Ave- 
bury],  co.   Wilts,   124. 

Becok,  Tliomas,  341. 

Cf.  Bocock. 

Bedale,  co.  York,  Aiskew,  Ay- 
coscoghsh  in.  148. 

,  Crakehall,   Crakhall  in,  138, 

144. 

,  parson  of.  See  Hermes- 
thorp,  John  de. 

Beddeford.     See    Bedeford. 

Beddington,  Bedvngton,  co.  Surrey, 
339. 

deeds  dated  at,  218,  339. 

,    Bandon   and    other   places 

named  in,  218. 

portioner  of  church  of.     See 

Carreu,    Jolin   de. 

Bedeford.     See  Bedford. 

Bedeford,  Beddeford,  John,  333, 
341. 

,  .....  alias  Crayford,  chap- 
lain,   445. 

,   . .  .  . ,  groom  of  the  queen's 

chamber,    14. 

,  William,  of  London,  445. 

Bedell,  Adam,  of  Hoo,  468. 

,  Henry,  1 96. 

,  W' illiam,  301. 

Bedenhale,   Reynold,   336. 

Bedewynde,  Richard,  pepperer,  of 
London,   522. 

Bedford,  Bedeford  [co.  Bedford], 
334,  344,  547. 

,  bailiffs  of,  344. 

,  burgesses  of ,  in  parliament, 

430. 

,  prison  at,  344. 

Bedford,  earl  of.     See  Coucy,  Ingel- 

ram  de. 
Bedford,      county      of,       63,      204, 
241,     244,     344,     352,     359, 
540. 

,  coroners  of,  49. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


579 


Bedford,  county  of — cont. 

escheatorsin.  See  Broughton, 

John  ;  Otteford,  William  de ; 
Sewale,  Thomas. 

,  issues  of,  121,  161. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  414, 

429. 

,  sheriff  of,  37,  49,  121,  161, 

210,  274,  278,  280,  336,  344, 
414,   438,   543. 

Bedman,  Odo,  14. 

Bedmanton,  Thomas,  219. 

,  William,  206,  219,  280. 

Bedminster,  Bedmynstre,  co.  Somer- 
set, fee  in,  307. 

Bedyngton.     See  Beddington. 

Bee,  Geoffrey,  431. 

Beechamwell,  Bychamwelle,  co.  Nor- 
folk, advowson  of,  308. 

Beeches  alias  Chambirlains,  Pelham 
Chambirlains,  in  Brent  Pel- 
ham,  co.  Hertford,  manor  of, 
453,  455. 

Beek,  Nicholas,  lieutenant  of  the 
constable  of  Somerton  castle, 
553. 

Cf.  Beke. 

Beere.     See  Bere. 

Beeston  [in  Northill  and  Sandy], 
co.   Bedford,   327. 

Begyn,  John,  parson  of  the  church 
within  Dover  castle,  375. 

Beke,  John,  265. 

,    . . . . ,   of  Ratcliff e  on  Soar, 

204. 

Cf.  Beek. 

Bekenesfeld,  Nicholas  de,  escheator 
in  Ireland,  145. 

Bekenliam.     See   Beckenham. 

Bekenhull.     See  Bucknell. 

Bekeryng,  John  de,  knight,   426. 

,  Thomas  de,  24. 

Beket,  John,  collector  of  the  tenth 
and  fifteenth  in  Somerset,  1. 

,  William,  95. 

Bekyngham,  John  de,  Jolin,  es- 
cheator in  Derbyshire,  162, 
188,    189,    317,    409. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Nottingham- 
shire, 162,  193,  396. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Nottingham,  536. 

Bekyrton,  Robert  de,  mercer,  of 
London,  468. 

Belay,  William,  burgess  of  Lincoln 
in   parliament,    4'2'.». 

Bele,  Roger,  336. 

Cf.  Belle. 

Belers,  Beler,  James,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Leicester,  428,  536. 


Belers — cont. 

Roger,  knight,  396,  397. 

Beleval,  John,  464. 

Belgrave,  Eleanor,  of  Northampton, 

75. 
,  Peter,  parson  of  Blunham, 

543. 
Belhouse,  John  de.  555. 

,  Thomas,  335,  340,  521. 

,    .  .  .  . ,  knight,  53. 

Belknap,      Belknappe.     See      Beal- 

knap. 
Belle,  Adam,  of  Leake,  87. 

,  John,  of  Leake,  87. 

,  William,  512. 

Cf.  Bele. 

Bellerby,  Henry  de,  222. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  North  Riding  of  York- 
shire,   555. 
Belles,  the.     See  Bell's  House. 
Belliconar.     See   Ballygunner. 
Bellingham,     co.     Northumberland, 

Bell's  House,  the  Belles,  and 

Bowes  Hope,   the  Bowes  in, 

322. 
Bello  Campo,  Beauchamp,  Elizabeth 

wile  of  John  de,  220. 
,  Joan  (le  Fut)  wife  of  John 

de,  157. 

,  John  de,  John,  220. 

,  knight,  280. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Worcester,    536. 

, ,  of  Holt,  157. 

,     the    king's    esquire, 

keeper  of  Bridgnorth  castle, 

160. 

,  Roger  de,  knight,  466. 

his  chamberlain. 

See  Rukwyke,  John. 
,  Thomas  de,  earl  of  Warwick, 

24,  55,  341,  418,  419,  487. 
,   .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 

terminer     in     Warwickshire, 

474. 

,    ,  the  father,  419. 

,  William  de,  William,  knight, 

287,  288.   337. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   j  ustice   of   oyer   and 

terminer    in    Worcestershire, 

73. 
Bello  Monte,  Beaumond,  Beaumont, 

Henry  de,  155. 

,    ....  son  of  Henry  de.  293. 

,  John  do.  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Devon,  429. 
,     ....     son    of     Honry    de, 

knight,   495. 


r»so 


GENERAL     ENDEX, 


llo  Monte    <"nt. 
Margaret  w ife  of  I [enrj  de, 

ngnmenl  ol  dow  it  to.    1  til 

Richard  brother  of    I  Eenry 

,1. 

Thomas  brother  of  Richard 

de,  203 

Ih'H's  House,  the  Helios  [in  Belling- 
liaml.    ro.    Northumberland, 

Bektede,  John,  103. 
Beltisford,  Ralph  de,  clerk.  7<i. 
Helton  (in  Lindsey),  co.  Lincoln,  17, 

IS.     30. 

co.  Suffolk.  246. 

Behvodc   Richard  de,   I s 
Bench,  the  Common,  chief  justice  of. 
Healknap.    Hubert  ;    Fyn- 
oheden,   William  de. 

justices  ot.  4.  9.  30,  36. 

82,  <;2-'(>4.  66-68,  7".  71.  78, 
81,  88,  90,  99.  KiL'.  In::.  I  I  I. 
143.  101.  171.  l!i!i.  200,  203, 
207-209,  212,  217,  235,  245, 
266,  27:?.  276,  282-284,  32<>. 
324.  326,  333.  334.  337.  341. 
342,  344-347.  353,  359,  424, 
431.  441.  44  f,  44li.  449  465, 
493  195,  507,  522,  526,  527. 
534,  543,  556,  558-561.  Set 
also  Fycheden,  William  ;  Kir- 
keton,  Roger  do  ;  Tliorp, 
Robert  de. 

See  Ireland. 

the  King's,  justices  of.  321. 

See  also  Cavendish,  John  de  ; 
[ngelby,   Henry  de. 

Bene.  Jolin.  coroner  of  Kent, 
L94. 

Benefield,  Benyfeld  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], parson  of.  See  Heton, 
John  de. 

benefit  of  clergy,   39. 

Beneger.  Ralph,  parson  of  Donning- 
ton.   94. 

Benelond.  Arnald,  Fleming,  ship 
master,  125. 

Beneshef,  Thomas,  burgess  of  Wal- 
lingford    in   parliament,    537. 

Benet,  Beneyt,  Henry,  470. 

,  Richard,  parson  of  the  parish 

church   within  Dover  castle, 
149.    375. 

,  William,  213,  214. 

Benetoun,  Augustine,  merchant  of 
Lucca  in  London,  478. 

Beneyt.     See   Benet. 

Benfleet,  Benvflet,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 
23. 


Benfieel     an,/. 

South.    Bouthbeniflel .    co. 

Essex,    I  7!». 
Bengeo,  Benghoo,  co.  Bertford,  466. 
Bengges.     8e*    Byng. 
Benghoo.    See  Bengeo. 
Benham    Valence    |in    Bpeen],    co. 

Berks,  manor  of.  188,  L89. 
Bennington,    Benyngton    [co.    Lin- 
coln],   345.' 
Long,  Longbenyngton,Long- 

bynyngton,    Longeben;  ogton 

|  co.    Lincoln],    keeper   of  the 

manor   of.    15. 

,  Michael  prior  of,  139. 

I'.eimvngton.      See    Henyngton. 
Bensington,    Bensyngton    [co.    Ox- 
ford ],   manor  of.   408. 
Benstede,   Edward  brother  of  John 

son  of  John  i\o.  302. 

John  son  of  John  do.  302. 

Bensyngton.     See   Bensington. 
Ben  tele,    Benteleye.     See   Bentley. 
Bentelowe.  John,  444. 
Bentham.  Alice  daughter  of  Agnes 

de,  29. 
Elizabeth  daughter  of  Agnes 

dc  29. 
Margery  daughter  of  Agnes 

de.  29. 
Bentley,     Bentele,     Benteleye,     co. 

Hants,  92. 

,  deed  dated  at,  92. 

[co.  Suffolk],  manor  of,  321, 

544. 
Benyfeld.     See  Benefield. 
Benyflet.     See  Benfleet. 
Benyngton.     See   Bennington. 
Benyngton.  Bennyngton,  Benynton, 

John,  John  de,   24,   279. 

,  .....  citizen  of  London,  223. 

Thomas  de,  monk  of 

W'alden,   186. 

,  William,  450. 

Benyton,    Thomas,    of     Howbridge, 

462. 
Berard,    William.   234,    511. 
Bercotes.  Richard  de,  396,  397. 
Berde,   John.   John  de.   alias  Reed, 

551,    552. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   burgess  of  Derby  in 

parliament,    537. 
,    Maurice,    searcher    in    the 

port  of  Plymouth.  9. 

Cf.   Bird. 

Berden,  Bierdene.  Adam.  Adam  de, 

rector   of    St.    Mary   at  Hill, 

London,   89,   92,  259,  266. 

,  John.  John  de,  335,  340. 

, ,  of  Essex,  237. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


581 


Berden.  John — cont. 

of  York.   310. 

William,  447. 

Cf.   Burden. 

Berdeshay,  William  de,  533. 

Bere  forest  [co.  Hants],    keeper   of, 

397. 
Bere,  Beere,  John  atte,   burgess  of 

Southampton.     4 1 G. 
,  Richard,  Richard  de  la.   61, 

490.  491. 

,   knight,  112,  370. 

Robert.  111. 

,  Thomas,  clerk,  358. 

Bereford.     See   Barford. 

Bereford,     Berford,     Baldwin     de, 

Baldwin,   551. 

,  knight,  432,  528. 

Katherine  wife  of  Richard, 

472,   516. 
,   Richard,   of  Norwich,    472, 

516. 

Simon  de,  190,  191. 

Berew.     See  Barrow. 
Berewick.     See  Berwick. 
Berewyk.  Thomas,   369. 
Berford.     See  Bereford. 
Bergadinus,     Peter,     merchant     of 

Venice  in  London,  458. 
Bergeveny .     See    A  bergavenny. 
Bergeveny,  Anne  countess  of    Pem- 
broke, dame  de,  333. 
Bergh,  Agnes  atte,  idiot,  305. 

,  John  atte,  425. 

,  Margaret  daughter  of  John 

son  of  John  Wylot,   brother 

of    Stephen    father    of    Alice 

mother  of  Agnes  atte,  305. 
Bergham.     See  Barham. 
Berghby.     See  Barrowby. 
Bergholt,  West,  Bergholt,  co.  Essex, 

238,  459. 
Berille,  Berylle,  Wralter,  227. 
Berkele,   Berkelee,  Berkelegh,   John 

son  of  Katherine  de,  227. 
,  Katherine  de,  lady  of  Wot- 

ton  under  Edge,  227. 
Nicholas  de,  knight,  227. 
Roger  de,  349. 
Thomas  de,  307. 

lord  of  Berkeley,  227. 

....  son  of    Maurice  de,  1. 
Berkeley,  Berkelee  [co.  Gloucester], 

lord  of.     See  Berkele,  Thomas 

de. 
Berkelowo.     See  Bartlow. 
Berkerolcs.  John,  knight,  327. 
Berkhampetead,  Little,  Little  Berk- 

hampstede,  co.  Hertford,  239, 

242,  243. 


Berkhampstead,  Little- — cont. 

deeds  dated   at.   •_'  lij.   L'  I.;. 

manor  of.   2.'!!).   242,  243. 

Berkhamstede    Henry,   511. 

Berks,    county    of,    217,    221,    256, 

517.    oil). 

coroners  of,  131.  301,  404. 

,   escheators   in.     See   Harn- 

liani,        Oliver ;       Somerton, 

Nicholas. 
guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,   350. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

536. 
,  sheriff  of.  57,  131,  137,  212, 

252,  301,  337,  350,  404. 

taxation  in,  42,  206. 

Berkyng.     See  Burking. 

Berkyng,     Burkyng,     Richard     de, 

draper,  516. 
Berland,  Christina  wife  of  William, 

,>o7    228 

,  William,  227,  228. 

Bermyngharn,   Bermyngeham,   Fulk 

de,  knight,  111. 
,  John  de,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Buckingham,   536. 
,  Thomas  de,  Thomas,  knight 

of  the  shire  of  Warwick,  536. 

,    .  .  .  .,  of  London,  281. 

Bemad,  Peregrin,  190. 
Bernak.     See    Llanfrynach. 
Bernak,   Henry  de,   rector  of   Box- 
worth,    348. 

William  de,  knight,  360. 

Bernard,    John,    escheator  in   War- 
wickshire,   35. 

,  Nicholas,  84. 

,    Richard,    guardian    of    the 

peace  in  the  North  Riding  of 

Yorkshire,   555. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    verderer   of    Galtrys 

forest,  5. 
Bernardcastelle,      Jolin     de,     clerk, 

107,  110. 
Berners,   Berneres,   John,   John  de, 

knight,  22,  23. 
,  Reynold,  parson  of  Debden, 

259. 
Bernes,  John,  John  de.  68. 
,    .  .  .  . ,  alderman  of  London, 

259. 
,   .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  77, 

82.   83,   110,   320. 

Richard,   it  1 , 

Bernesby,   Robert,    172. 
Berneeton.     See  Bamston. 
BemetLv.     See   Barnetby. 
Bernetby,  Robert,   Robert  do.   4 ."> 7 . 


GENERAL     tNDEX. 


ael  bj  ,  Kol>    I         >it. 

oi  I  tarton  nil  ll  umber, 

SI. 
nt'wclli       S     Barnwell 
Bern  \-  .   Robt  rt  de,  .'!■">!  356. 

w  alter  d(>.  516. 
Bflmham     Set    Bamham. 

nliam.  Andrew    Bomond  nephew 
■h  de,  616. 

Walt,  r  .!.•.  24. 

Cf.   I  turnham. 

nollia,  John  de,  327. 
Bernyngham.     Set     Barningham. 
rmgton,      '•".      Sulci'.      Betton 
Str.  nge,  Stri   .i  a     I  tetton  in, 
170.   .114. 
Berry  [  France],  264. 

IkTtolft.     Lol-iTt.    Oi      I  I.'I.mI.      111. 

Bertliorj'.     ><  <    Burythorpe. 

Bertcn.     Set    Barton. 

Berton.  John,  of  Hertfordshire,  242. 

of  Holborn,  284. 

Cf.   Barton. 

Bertram.  Ellen  daughter  of  Robert 
de,    knight,    74. 

Berughhy,  Jolin  de,  of  Northamp- 
tonsliire,  241. 

Berwaldon.     See  Barn  Hall. 

Berwe.     See.  Barwo. 

Benvick  upon  Tweed,  Berewiek  upon 
Twede.  441.  442. 

chamberlain  of.     See  Bolton, 

Jolin  de. 

Berwicks,  Berwyk  [in  High  Easter], 
co.  Essex,  fee  in,  22. 

Berwyk.     See   Barwick,    Berwicks. 

Berwyswode.     See  Bruce  Grove. 

Berylle.     See  Berille. 

Bescote,  Richard,  of  Salop,  358. 

Beseby,  Richard  de,  451. 

Beselay.     See  Bisley. 

BesevyUe,  Agnes,  511. 

,  John  son  of  John,  of  Pit- 
stone,  511. 

Cf.  Bosevile. 

Besford,  Alexander  de,  522. 

Bessford,  Besseford  [in  Shawbury], 
co.  Salop,  manor  of,  294. 

Best.  John,  279. 

Betchworth,  East,  Estbechesworth, 
co  Surrey,  370. 

,  West,  Westbechesworth,  co. 

Surrey,  manor  of,  370. 

Beteman,  William,  547. 

Cf.   Bateman. 

Bethewater.     See    Bythewater. 

Betleshangre.     See  Betteshanger. 

Betoyne,  John  son  of  John  de,  512. 

, ,  painter,  of  Lon- 
don, 616,  517. 


Beto>3  n'\  John    cont. 

s«in    oi     Thomas    de, 

goldsmith  of  London,  616. 

lulijina  ((!<■  Thame)  daugh- 
ter of  Thomas  Bon  of  Riohard 
on  <ii  William,  612,  616. 

Kichurd    son     (if     William. 

612. 

Thomas  de,  ~>16. 

Betteshanger,       Betleshangre,      co. 

Kent,  manor  of,   164. 
Betton  Strange,  Straunge  Betton  [in 

Berrington  |.  co.  Salop,  manor 

of.  ITti.  314. 
Beuchyn,  Leonard,  of  London.  !>!». 
liovercotes,  Richard  do,  318. 
Boverlaeo.  I5c\i  ilc   l!e\  i-rlee,  Bever- 

leye,  Amice  wile  of  John  do, 

2,  166,  L67,  367,  394. 
John    do.    John.    324,    327, 

307.  470,  634,  561. 

,  .....  citizen  of  London.  351. 

,    constable    of     Leeds 

castle,  390. 

,  .  .  .  .,  esquire,  259. 

, keeper  of  Eltham,  15, 

10,  156.  157. 

, of   Penkridge,   626. 

.  .  .  .,    the     king's     esquire, 

394,  395,  414,  415,  423. 

Richard   de,   471. 

,  Robert  de,  471. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  canon    of    St.    John's 

college,  Beverley,  520. 
Thomas    de,    of    Beverley, 

520. 
Beverley  [co.  York],  520. 
,  St.  John's  collegiate  church, 

canons    of.      See    Beverlaco, 

Robert      de ;        Chesterfeld, 

Richard  de. 
Beverleye.     See  Beverlaco. 
Beverstone,    co.    Gloucester,    castle 

and  manor  of,  227. 
Bevyle,  Jolin,  of  Woolesdon,  knight 

of  the  shire  of  Cornwall,  429. 
Bexley,  Bixle,  co.  Kent,  207,  248. 
,  Doune  and  Dounegrove  in, 

248. 
Beyford.     See  Bayford. 
Beylam,  Edmund,  clerk,  283,  284. 

,  Robert,  283,  284. 

Beylham,  Maud  de,  of  Cambridge,  62. 
Beynton.     See  Baynton. 
Beyvyn,  John,  78. 
Bibury,    co.    Gloucester,    Arlington, 

Alrinton  in,  307,  308. 
Bicheuestoke.     See   Chewstoke. 
Bickenhill,  co.  Warwick,  Lyndon  in, 

255. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


583 


Bicker.  Biker,  Biker  in  Holand,  By- 

ker,    co.    Lincoln,    manor   of, 

202,  395,  480. 
Bicknor,   Bykenore,   co.    Gloucester, 

manor  of,  395. 
Bidborough.  Bvtteberugh,  co.  Kent, 

107,  201. 
Biddlesden,  Bitelesden  [co.  Bucking- 
ham], abbot  of,  191,  192. 
Bideford,  Bydeford,  co.  Devon,  fee 

in,  308. 
Bideford,  Thomas  son  of  Richard  de, 

knight,  514. 
Bierdene.     See  Berden. 
Bigorre,  Bigore  [division  of  Gascony, 

France],  254. 
Biker.     See  Bicker. 
Bikerstath,  Adam  de,  245. 
Bilchangre.     See  Birchanger. 
Billericay,  Billirica  [co.  Essex],  136. 
Billing,    Billyng,    Little,   co.   North- 
ampton, fee  in,  189. 
Billingford,  alias  Prilleston,  Prylles- 

ton,  Purleston,  Pyrleston,  co. 

Norfolk,  deeds  dated  at,  427, 

431. 

,  manor  of,  424,  427,  431. 

Billinghay,  Billyngeye  [co.  Lincoln], 

95. 

,  disturbance  at,  95. 

,  Catley  priory  in,  95. 

Billirica.     See     Billericay. 
Billyng.     See  Billing. 
Billyngeye.     See  Billinghay. 
Bilyngdon,      Bilyndon,      Bylyndon, 

Richard,  111. 
Binham,  Bynham  [co.  Norfolk],  prior 

of,  9. 

,  Thomas  sub-prior  of,  9. 

Binsey,  Bunse,  Bunseye  chapele  near 

Oxford  [co.  Oxford],  48.  55. 
Binsted,  Byenstede  [co.  Hants],  441. 
Birchanger,    Bilchangre,    co.    Essex, 

354,  360. 
Bird,  John,  350. 

Cf.  Berd. 

Birdbrook,     Bridbroke,     co.     Essex, 

parson  of.     <Sec  Stoke,  Richard 

de. 
Birdlimes,  Burdeleysmaner  in  Com- 

berton,  co.  Cambridge,  manor 

of,  1 55. 
Birteley,  Thomas  de,  532. 
Birton.     See  Burton. 
Bischeley.     See   Bushley. 
Bisham,  Bustlesham  Mountagu   [co. 

Berks],      prior      of,      marble 

columns  for,  297. 
Bishop's  Hatfeld.     See  Hatfield. 
Stortford.     See  Stortford. 


Bishopstrow.    BvBschopestrowe   [co. 

\\  ilts],  manor  of.  323. 
Bishopthorpe     ?      Newethorp      [co. 

York],  391. 
Bishop  Wilton.     See  Wilton. 
Bisley    [co.     Gloucester]  ?    Beselay, 

rector  of.     See   Wodenorton, 

Roger  de. 
Bisshop,  Bysshop,  John,  102,  510. 
Bisshopeston,    Bysshopeston,    Beat- 
rice de,  255. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Thomas  de,  25.3. 

,  John,    clerk,    96,    227,    228, 

251,  253,  302. 
Thomas  son  of  Richard  de, 

255. 
Bisterne,  John  de,  284. 
Bitchfield,   Bechefeld    [in  Stamford- 
ham],    co.    Northumberland, 

507. 
Bitelesden.     See  Biddlesden. 
Bitheme,  Richard  de,  vicar  of  Gest- 

ingthorpe,  102. 
Bixle.     See  Bexley. 
Blaby,  John,  of  Staffordshire,  222. 
Blachyngton.     See  Blatchington. 
Blackawton,  Blakeauton,  co.  Devon, 

parson  of.     See  Folkyngham, 

John  de. 
Blackford,  Blacworth  [in  Stoke  Holy 

Cross],  co.  Norfolk,  manor  of, 

234. 
Blackmere,     Blakemere    [in    Whit- 
church, co.  Salop],  Lestrange 

of,  176,  378.  410. 

,  manor  of,  378. 

Blackmore,    Blakamore,   co.    Essex, 

prior  of,  22. 
Black  Notley,  Nottele.     See  Notley. 
Blacworth.     See  Blackford. 
Blagrave,  Blaggrove  [in  Lambourn, 

co.  Berks],  141. 

,  manor  of,  141,  142. 

Blaithwaite,  Blakthwayt  [in  Wigton], 

co.  Cumberland,  19. 
Blakamore.     See  Blackmore. 
Blake,  Jolin,  cornmonger  of  London, 

261. 
,   parson     of     Grafton 

Flyford,  335. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  270. 

,  Nicholas,  of  Ware,  254,  2.3.".. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger.  iT>7. 

,  Richard,  citizen  of  London, 

472,  516. 
,  Robert,  coroner  of  Wiltshire, 

168. 
Blakeaueton.     See  Blackawton. 
Blakebumo,      Blakebourne,      John, 

John  do,  1(J3,  546,  562. 


584  GENERAL 

Blakelam.    John,    Imii-l'  "    nf    Now - 

itle  upon  Tyne,    ; 
Blakemi  v  ■     I  Hackruere. 

Blakeney,   Blakenave  [oo.   Norfolk], 

Bshersof, 

merchant  of,   )<»i. 

port  of,  382,    i"» 

collectors  of  subsidy  in, 

Blakenottle      -      Motley. 
Blakealey,  co.  Northampton,  Sewell 

in.  1  55. 
Blaket,     Bartholomew,    of    Oxford- 
shire, - 

babel,  2< 

Blakewyne.     Set    Blakwyn. 
Blakson,  William,  chaplain,  1  83. 
Blakthwayl      See  Blaithwaite. 
Blakwelle,  William.  512. 
Blakwyn,  Blakewyne,  Robert,  70. 

of  Blaston,  70. 

Blancard,     Blancardis,     Blanchard, 

Dinus,   Dynus  de,    172,   47ii— 

474. 
Thomas,    Thomas  de,    172. 

472-474. 

( 7.    Blaunchard. 

Blandiac.  John  (!<•.  cardinal  bishop  ol 

Sabina,  rector  of  Adderbury, 

28. 
Blankaro,    John,    master   of    the   St. 

Magdalen,  of  Dunkirk,  480. 
Blankeneve.    Blaiinkeneye.    Walter, 

of 'London,  77.  206. 
Blankpayn,  Blaunkpayn,  John,  bur- 
-  of  Cambridge  in  parlia- 
ment, 430. 
Maud,  wife  of  Thomas  Hoi 

broke,  503. 
Bhiston  [co.  Leicester],  75,  70,  257. 

deed  dated  at,  70. 

,  manor  of,  75. 

Blaston,  Thomas  de,  70, 

,  ....  son  of  Thomas  do,  7~>. 

70. 
Blatchington,       Blachyngton,       co. 

Sussex,  advowson  of,   419. 

,  manor  of,  419. 

Blatherw  icke,       Blatherwyko,       co. 

Xorthampton,  427. 
letters  close  dated  at,  248. 

252. 
Blaunchard,    John,    archdeacon    of 

Worcester,  241.  432,  518. 

, ,  clerk,  527,  528. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  528. 

,  Thomas,  528. 

,  . .  . . ,  of  Cotheridge,   241. 

Cf.  Blancard. 


i\i»k\. 

Blaunkeneye     Set    Blankeneye 
I  tlaunki  'a\  n.     St  <    Blankpaj  n, 
Blaxhall,  Blaxsale,  co.  Suffolk,  manor 

of,  305. 
Bleasby,    Blesby   [oo.    Nottingham], 

195. 
Gibsmere,   Gippesmere  and 

<  loverton  in,  I  95. 
Blechesdon.     Set     Bletchingdon. 
Blencarn  [in  Kirkland]!    Blenkarne- 

bek,  co.  Cumberland,  1  s. 
Blencogo,  Blencogou,  Blencogowe  [in 

Bromfield],    CO.    Cumberland, 

1«).  27. 
Blendworth,        Blendeworth        [co. 

Hants],        rector       of.         See 

Travers,  Richard. 
Blenkarnebek.     Set   Blencarn. 
Blesby.     See  Bleasbj . 
Bletchingdon,    Blechesdon   [co.   Ox- 
ford |.  355. 
Bliclyngg,    Blyclyngg,    William    de, 

citizen  ol  Norw  ich,  354—356. 
Blithfield,  Blyfeld,  co.  Stafford,  New- 
ton, Neuton  in,  161. 
Blode,   John,  citizen  of  Hereford  in 

parliament,   430. 
I  Uoklej  e,  John,  of  London,  LOO. 
Blomham,     Blounham.     See     Blun- 

haiii. 
Blount,  dame  de,  308. 
Edmund  .son  of  Hugh  son  of 

Edmund  lo,  20. 

Joan  wife  of  John  lo,  28. 

John,    105. 

knight,  of  Wilts,  277. 

,  Thomas,  knigJit  of  tlie  slrire 

of  Dorset,  429,  536. 
son  of  Hugh,  of  Essex, 

307. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  father,  kniglit,  424. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  son,   knight,   424. 

,  Walter,  23. 

,  William    le,    knight,    rebel, 

27,  28. 
Bloxliam,  William  dc,  clerk,  325. 
Bloy,  William  de,  23. 
Bluet,    Dluet,    Geoffrey,    332,    341, 

401. 
Blundeston,  co.  Suffolk,  240,  247. 
Blunham,  Blomham,  Blounham,  co. 

Bedford,    advowson   of,    192, 

193. 

,  manor  of,  188,  189. 

,  parson    of.     See    Belgrave, 

Peter. 
Blyclyngg.     See    Bliclyngg. 
Blyfeld.     See  Blithfield. 
Blyth,  William,  archdeacon  of  Nor- 
folk, 270. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


f,s5 


Blyton.  John,. knight,  226. 

Boarstall.  Borstal!,  co.  Buckingham, 
deed  dated  at.   111. 

Bobbingworth,  Bobbyngworth,  Bub- 
byngworth,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 
24. 

John  parson  of,    534. 

Bobleston,  Thomas,  of  London,  89. 

Bocher,  Peter,  78. 

Walter,  of  Elstow,  274. 

Bockliampton,  Bokhampton  [in 
Lamboum.  co.  Berks],  4. 

Bocking,  Bockvntje  [co.  Essex],  2(>5. 
459. 

Bockyng,  Bockyngg,  Bokkyng,  John 
"  do,  265. 

,    ....     son    of    William    de, 

514. 

,  Ralph  de,  514. 

Bockynge.     Sec   Bocking. 

Bockyngg.     See    Bockyng. 

Bocland,  Bokelande.  Bokelond.  Bok- 
londe,  John,   97,  247. 

Thomas.  438. 

William,  112. 

Boclere.     See  Bokeler. 

Boelesham.     See  Buckleaham. 

Bocock,  Boukoc,  Thomas,  257,  453. 

Cf.  Becok. 

Bode,  Jolm,  216. 

Bodecombe.     See  Butcombe. 

Bodemyn.     See  Bodmin. 

Bodeneve.  William,  of  Norfolk,  335, 
336. 

Bodiniel,  Bodynyel  [by  Bodmin, 
co.  Cornwall],  459. 

Bodmin,  Bodemyn,  Bodmyn  [co. 
Cornwall],  459. 

,  deed  dated  at,  459. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  232. 

Bodynyel.     See   Bodiniel. 

Bogayllo,  John,  master  of  the  Seint 
Vincent,   27. 

Bohun,  Cicely  wife  of  John,  knight, 
471. 

,  Eleanor     (de     Wodestoke). 

daughter  of  Humphrey  de, 
earl  of  Hereford,  523. 

,  Humphrey  de,  earl  of  Here- 
ford and  Essex,  15,  17,  25, 
32,  133,  142,  163,  179,  181. 
184,  290,  294,  370,  390,  487, 
490,  491,  494. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  and  Northamp- 
ton, constable  of  England, 
40,  41,  327,  478,  479. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Lang- 
ham,   1 76. 

,  Joan  de,  countess  of  Here- 
ford, 623. 


Bohun.  Joan  de — cont. 
wife  of  Humphrey  de, 

assignment  of  dower  to.  22- 
•-'5.  28. 

,  Mary  daughter  of  Humphrey 

de,  earl  of  Hereford,  523. 

William  de,  earl  of  North- 
ampton, 134. 

Bokelande.     See  Bocland. 

Bokeler,   Boclere.   Adam,    83,   204. 

Bokelond.     See  Bocland,  Buckland. 

Boker,  Boukere,  Ralph,  343,  344. 

Bokerell,  John,  of  Somerset,   78. 

,  William,  merchant  of  Scot- 
land, 203. 

Bokesworth.     See  Boxworth. 

Boketon.     See  Boughton. 

Bokhampton.     See  Bockliampton. 

Bokherst,  Richard,  217. 

Bokkyng.     See   Bockyng. 

Boklonde.     <S'ee    Bocland. 

Boksak,  John,  merchant  of  Lucca, 
509. 

Bokyngham.  See  Buckingham, 
Bukyngham. 

Bokynham.     See  Buckenham. 

Bolam,  co.  Northumberland,  Short- 
flatt.  Shortflat  in,  398. 

Bolas.  (heat,  Boulewas,  co.  Salop, 
manor  of,  319. 

,  ... . ,  Calvington,Calvyngton, 

Calwynton  in.  52l>,  536. 

Bolbeck,  Bolbek  [co.  Northumber- 
land], barony  of,  398. 

Bole,  Alan,  of  Kilnsea,  rector  of 
Holmpton  chapel,  222. 

Thomas,  burgess  of  Bedford 

in  parliament,  430. 

Bolleroun,  Peter  de,  363. 

,  . . .  .,  of  Lancashire,   245. 

Bollingham,  Bollynghull  [in  Eardis- 
lev],  co.  Hereford,  lordship  of, 
370,  490. 

Bollisore,  Richard,  Richard  de,  clerk, 
425. 

Bollok.     See  Bullok. 

Bollynghull.     See     Bollingham. 

Bolour,  Nicholas,  111. 

Bolthorp,  Robert  de,  of  Yorkshire, 
528. 

Bolton,  Bolton  in  Allerdalo,  co.  Cum- 
berland, St.  Hilda's  chapel 
alias  Islekirk,  Hildekirk,  Hild- 
kdrk  chapel  in,   6. 

on  Swale,  in  Richmondshire, 

co.  York,  222. 

Percy,  co.  York,    Pallethorp, 

Paddokthorp  in,   L80. 

upon     Deame,    upon    Dyme 

co.  York,  357. 


GENERAL     IXDKX. 


Bolton  upon  Dearni — v<>nt. 
deed  dated  at, 

in. in 

ton,    \  -ii'  -  "  ife  of  Thomaa  de, 
L63. 

fohn    de.    chamberlain    "< 

Berwick  upon  Tweed,  416. 
Mary  daughter  oi   Thomaa 

do.  164. 

Robert  de.   clerk.   3.">7. 

Thomas  de,  163.  104. 

Bolwyk,  oo.  York,   170. 

Boh/mer,  Margaret  wife  of  Ralph  de, 

1 16,  147. 

Ralph  .!<•.  146,  U7. 

Bolyngdon.     >'"    Bullingdon. 
Bomond,  Andrew,  clerk,  nephew  of 

Hugh  de  I ternham,  616. 
Bonard.  .lolm.    128 

Maud  wife  of  John.  128. 

Bond  Burstwick.     See  Burstwick. 
Bonde,  John,  221. 

Nicholas,    204. 

knight.  437. 

Roger,  221. 

Walter.  255. 

William,  221. 

Bonclebrustwyk.     See    Burstwick. 
Bondvssh,  Edward,  450. 
Bonel,  Bonell.  Thomas,  328. 
Bonet,  Michael,  196. 
Boneton,  Augustine,  of  Lucca,  mer- 
chant   dwelling    in    London, 

419. 
Boneville,  Bonevyle.     See  Bonville. 
Bonliahi,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  241, 

323,  362,  367,  432,  459,  518, 

528. 
,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Wilts,  429. 
Bonion,  John,  of  Cornwall,  79. 
Bono,    John,    de    Madarega,    ship- 
master, 291. 
Bonseignur,  Bonseignour,  master  of 

the  king's  arbalests,   165. 

,  the    king's    arbalester,    363. 

Bontyng,   John,  goldsmith,   70. 

Cf.  Bantyngge. 

Bonville,  Boneville,  Bonevyle,  Bon- 

vylle,  Jolm,  coroner  of  Dorset, 

502,  505. 

,  William,  36. 

, ,  knight,  87,  521. 

,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Devon,  429. 
books,  556. 

,  bequest  of  breviary,  240. 

,  removal  of,  from  priory,  151. 

Boolde,  Richard  de,  knight,  245. 
Boorton.     See  Bourton. 


Boothbj  Graffoe  [oo.  Lincoln],  Som- 

erton  oastle  in,  66 
PagnelL   Botheby   [co.    Lin 

coin],  361. 

I'.i'i  ■ilrmix.       Bourdeaux,       liurdeux 

[France,    dep.    (iirondoj,    10, 

126,   136,  264,  290,  387,  444, 

480. 
,  castle  of,  controller  of,  385, 

444. 
,  constable    of.     See    Rotour, 

Richard;  Wickford,  Robertde. 

,  district  of,  Bourdoloys,  254. 

,    mayor     of.  See     Rous, 

Robert. 

,  merchants  of,  296. 

,  the  king's  council  at,  385. 

,  wine  of,  290. 

Bordesley  abbey  [in  Tardebigg,  co. 

Worcester],    abbot   and   con- 
vent of,  283. 
Borewardescote.     See  Buscot. 
Borgh.     See  Burgh. 
Borley,  Jolm,  426,  431. 

Cf.  Barley. 

Borne,     river,     in     Isleworth     [co. 

Middlesex],  214. 
Borrey,  Richard,  of  Shrewsbury,  410. 
Borstall.     See  Boarstall. 
Borton,   Edmund   de,   escheator   in 

Salop,  159. 

Cf.  Burton. 

Borugh.     See  Burgh. 

Boseley,  Thomas,  of  Lancashire,  334. 

Bosevile,  Adam,  491,  492. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Adam,  491,  492. 

Cf.  Besevylle. 

Boseworth.     See  Bosworth. 
Boseyate.     See  Bozeat. 
Bosham,  John,  206. 

,  mercer,  438. 

Bossiney,  Bossynny  [in  Tintagel],  co. 

Cornwall,  borough  of,  409. 
Boston,   St.   Botolph   [co.   Lincoln], 

342,  345,  351,  353,418. 

bailiffs  of,  303,  364. 

,  deeds  dated  at,   351,   354. 

,  mayor     and     constable     of 

staple  of,  252,  253. 

,  port  of,  379. 

,  .  .  . . ,  collectors   of   customs 

and  subsidies  in,  41,  170,  364. 

See  also  Wandesford,  Adam  ; 

Waryn,  William. 

,  sale  of  fish  at,  303. 

Bosworth,    Market,    Boseworth,    in 

Leicester,  advowson  of,  306. 
Boteler,    Boteller,   Botiler,    Botiller, 

Buteller,    Butiller,    Buttiller, 

Alice  sister  of  Edward  le,  410. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


587 


Boteler — cont. 

,  Ankaret    (Lestrange)    sister 

of  Edward  le,  410. 
,  Dionysia  de   Cokesey  sister 

of  Edward  le,  410. 
,  Edmund  son  of  William  le, 

410. 

,  Edward,  Edward  le,  410. 

, ,  clerk,  234. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Weston  Tur- 

ville,  240. 

,  Ela  wife  of  William  le,  410. 

,  Elizabeth  (Ferrers)  daughter 

of  William  le,  410. 

,  Geoffrey  le,  23. 

,  Henry,  of  Stainton,  17. 

,  Ida  sister  of  Edward  le,  410. 

,  James  le,  earl  of   Ormond, 

469. 
,  justiciary  of  Ire- 
land, 312,  355,  373,  383,  389, 

489. 
John,  John  le,  122,  246,  274- 

276,  424. 

, ,  knight,  363. 

,  .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lancaster,  429,  535. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Brynkele,  267. 

, of    Droitwich,    1 75. 

,  Nicholas,  459. 

,  Richard,  461. 

,  chaplain,  255. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Leicestershire,  534. 

,  the  elder,  363. 

,  Thomas  le,  328. 

.Walter,    517. 

,  William  le,  of  Wem,  410. 

,  ....  son  of  William  le,  410. 

, son  of  William  le, 

410. 
Botelesford.     See  Bottesford. 
Botelespirie.     See  Buttsbury. 
Boteller.     See  Boteler. 
Botellerie,  Boterie,  Boutillerie,  But- 

erie,    Alexander    de    la,    the 

king's  serjeant,   63,  252. 
,  . .  . . ,  janitor  of  York  castle, 

44,  45. 

,  Simon  de  la,  23. 

Botelson,  John,  searcher  at  Grimsby, 

14. 
Boterie.     See  Botellerie. 
Boterwick,     Boterwyk,     Butterwyk, 

Alice    wife    of    John    Doget 

called,  64. 
,  John,  John  de,  67,  84,  95, 

110,  263,  439,  552. 

,  John  Doget  called,  64,  243. 

,  citizen  of    Lon- 
don, 256. 


Boterwick — cont. 

Cf.  Doget. 

Boterwyk.  See  Boterwick;  Butter- 
wick. 

Botesham,  John  de,  goldsmith  of 
London,  462. 

,  Thomas  de,  462. 

Bothe,  John  atte,  225. 

,  ....  del,  of  Bel  ton,  18. 

,  William    son    of    John    del, 

17,  18,  30. 

Cf.  Bouth. 

Botheby.     See  Boothby. 

Botiler.     See  Boteler. 

Botilers,  co.  Hertford,   4.V>. 

Botiller.     See  Boteler. 

Botour.  John,  guardian  of  the  peace 
and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Worcestershire,  346. 
Cf.  Bourtour. 

Botreaux,  Botreaus,  Botriaus,  Bot- 
riaux,  Botrieux,  Elizabeth 
wife  of  William  de,  240,  499, 
500. 

,  John,  of  Cornwall,  361. 

,  William  de.  William,  knight, 

239,  240,  242,  243,  272,  278, 
279,  361,  499,  500,  521. 

Bottesford,  Botelesford  [co.  Lincoln], 
parson  of.  See  Codyngton, 
Henry  de. 

Bottevyleyn,  William,  22. 

Bottourt.     See    Buttetourt. 

Botyld,  John,  246. 

Boudy,  Thomas,  chaplain,  253. 

Bouer,  Thomas,  of  Hants,  374. 

Boughbrigge,  Wilham  de,  clerk,  of 
Yorkshire,  114. 

Boughton,  Bowton  [in  Southoe],  co. 
Huntingdon,  230. 

,  Boketon,  co.  Northampton, 

fee  in,  189. 

by  Geidyngton  [in  Weekley], 

co.  Northampton,  fee  in,  190. 

Boukere.     See  Boker. 

Boukoc.     See  Bocock. 

Bouland,  John  de,  clerk,  87. 

Boulewas.     See  Bolas. 

Boulwas,  John  de,  knight,  558. 

Boulogne,  honour  of,  4,  481. 

Bounes,  Thomas,  34. 

Bourbonnais,  Bourbonnoys  [France], 
254. 

Bourdeaux,  Bourdoloys.  See  Bor- 
deaux. 

Boure,  Hugh  del,  of  Bainton,  of 
Yorkshire,  233. 

,  ....  de  la,  coroner  of  Shrop- 
shire, 173. 

,  John  atte,  101. 


:,ss 


GENERAL     IN'DK.X. 


nt. 

Ki.lmnl  atte.  280. 

Bourghton     8et    Burton. 

Bourgneuf,  tin  Baj  [France,  dep. 
I. en.   Enferieure],    4' 

Bourhalle.     Si  ■   I  lower  I  [alL 

Bourn,  Brunne  castle  [oo.  Lincoln], 
deed  dated  at.  25 

Bourne,  Alice  wife  of  Peter  de, 
110. 

Peter  (!<•.  1 10. 

Robert,  parson  of  South- 
fleet,  B 

Sim<>ii  atte,  .~>4.">. 

Cf.  Brune. 

Bourton,  Boorton  [in  Buckingham], 
oo.  Buckingham,  281 . 

Bourton.     Se*  Burton 

Bourtour,  John,  264. 

Cf,  Botour. 

Bouth,  Robert  de,  1  !•■'.. 

Cf.  Bothe. 

Bolltllorp.         Sn       Bow  |)|(H'|)C. 

Boutdllerie.     See   Botellerie. 

Bo\  ill,       Set   i  toyvile. 
Bovingdon,     Bovyndon    in  Hemel- 
hempstead,  co.  Hertford,  550. 
Bovylle.     Set   Boyvile. 

Bovyndon.      See     Bovingdon. 
liowals.  Jolm.  shipmaster,  13. 
Boweman,  Thomas,  coroner  of  Cura- 

berland,  -'{TO. 
Bower  Hall.  Bourhalle  of  Pentelowe 

[in  Pentlow,  co.  Essex],  manor 

of,  77. 
Bowes  Hope,  the  Bowes  [in  Belling- 

ham],    co.     Northumberland, 

322. 
bowl,  theft  of,  397. 
bows  and  arrows,  385. 

,  rent  of,  425. 

Bowthorpe,  Bouthorp  [co.  Norfolk], 

Stephen  parson  of,   101. 
Bowton.     See  Boughton. 
Bowyere,  Richard,   83,  204. 
Box,    co.    Wilts,    Hazelbury,   Hasel- 

bury  in,  349. 
Box,  Thomas,  471. 
Boxford,  Boxore  [co.  Berks],  212. 
Boxford,    Robert,    Robert   de,    210, 

289. 
,  .  .  . . ,  draper,  of  London,  261, 

325,  326. 
Boxgrove,  co.  Sussex,  Easthampnet, 

Esthamptonet  in,  .369. 
Boxley,  Boxlee,  co.  Kent,  Cosington, 

Cosyngton  in,   101. 
Boxore.     See  Boxford. 
Boxted,  Bukstede,  co.  Essex,  manor 

of,  427. 


Bozworth,    Bokesworth,    <-o.    Can 
bridge,  ;i<l\  on  boo  oi    1 1  s 

church  of,  lease  of.  34H 

manor  of,    1 1 9 

rector     of.      St  i      I  lemak, 

Henry  de. 

Boycrofl    alias    Sparehaukoseyo    in 
Little    Wall  ham.    <•'>.    I     •  ■ . 
in.  23. 

Boyly,  John,  101. 

I  '.i  '\  n.  John,  the  lame,  483. 

Boynton,  John,  of  Yorkshire,  112. 

Robert    de,    knight   of    the 

shire  of  York,  428. 

Thomas  de,  knight,  500. 

Boys,  John,  John  de,  23,  234,  453, 
456,464,  r>15. 

of  Coningsby,  87. 

of  Great  I  lunraow,  204. 

of  Lincolnshire,   73. 

of  Titchmarsh,  514. 

Robert,  27. 

Roger,  knight,  87,  234,  354- 

356,  439. 

,  Thomas,  coroner  of  Devon- 
shire, 477. 

,  Walter,  of  Exeter,  94. 

William,    79. 

Boyton,  co.  Wilts,  advowson  of,  184. 

,  manor  of,    1 84. 

Corton  in,  1 84. 

Boyvilo,   Boville,  Bovylle,  Boyvyle, 
Henry,  76. 

,  John,  knight,   76. 

,  William,  William  de,  24. 

, ,  clerk,  357,  358,  512. 

Bozan,  Bartholomew,  of  the  fellow- 
ship of  Lukes,  525. 

Bozeat,  Boseyate,  co.  Northampton, 
fees  in,  189,  190. 

Brabourne,     Brabume,     co.     Kent, 
manor  of,  322. 

Bracebrigge,  Ralph  de,  59. 

Bracle,  Nicholas  de,  227. 

Cf.  Brakell. 

Bradden.     See  Braden. 

Bradeford,    John,    burgess    of    Leo- 
minster in  parliament,  537. 

Bradegate,  Gilbert  de,  chaplain,  129. 

Bradekirke.     See  Bredekirk. 

Bradele.     See  Bradle,  Bradley. 

Bradeleyhe,  John,   514. 

Braden,  Bradden,  co.  Northampton, 
155. 

forest,  co.  Wilts,  election  of 

verderer  of,  49. 

Bradenham,    East,    Estbradenham, 
co.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  394. 

„ ,  West  [co.   Norfolk],   manor 

of,  552. 


CEXERAL    IXDEX. 


589 


Bradenham,  Lionel  de,  collector  of 

tentli  and  fifteenth  in  Essex, 

131. 

,  Robert  de,    36. 

Bradeston,  Bardeston,  Agnes  wife  of 

Thomas  de,  29. 
,  Edmund  de,   knight  of  the 

shire  of  Gloucester,  536. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  29. 

,  Ela  wife  of  Thomas  son  of 

Robert  de,  31. 
,     Elizabeth       daughter      of 

Thomas  son  of  Robert  de,  31. 

John  de.  29. 

Robert  de,   29. 

,  Thomas  de.  29. 

,  ....  son  of   Robert  son  of 

Thomas  de,   29. 
Bradewelle.     See    Bradwell,   Broad- 
well. 
Bradeweye,  Henry  de,  prior  of  Kenil- 

worth,  124. 
Bradle.     Bradele      in     Purbyk     [in 

Church  Ivnowle],  co.  Dorset, 

manor  of,  1 5. 
Bradley,  Bradele.  co.  Worcester,  4.")."), 

461. 
Bradstrete,  Brodstrete,  John,  John 

de,  clerk,  of  Suffolk,  73. 
,  of    Hythe,    the    elder, 

tailor,  212. 
Bradwell,  Bradewell,  co.  Essex,  123. 

,  Bradewelle,  co.  Suffolk,  246. 

,  .  .  .  .,  Gapton  in,   24G. 

Brafferton,  co.  York,  224. 
Braghing.    Braghwyngge,    Braugh- 

yng,     Brawghyng,      Richard, 

204,   257,   453. 

,  Thomas,  438. 

Braham,     John     de,     knight,      106, 

354. 
,  Margery    wife    of    John   de, 

106. 
Braintree,     Branketre    [co.     Essex], 

265,  450,   459. 

,  deed  acknowledged  at,  229. 

.highway   between  Halstead 

and,  30. 
Braithwaite,    Braythwayt    close    in 

[nglewood  [by  Middlesceugh, 

detached  portion  of  St.  Mary, 

Carlisle],    120. 
Brakell,  John,  parson  of   Burrough 

Green.  358. 

Gf.  Bracle. 

Brakenburgh,  Brakenbergh,  Thomas, 

Thomas  de.  343.  344. 
Brakstede.     See   Braxted. 
Bramhele.      See   Bromley. 
Bramber,  Brembre,  co.  Sussex,  128. 


Bramfield,  Bromfeld,  co.  Suffolk, 
manor  of,  234. 

Brampton,  co.  Huntingdon  manor 
of,  188,  189. 

[inTorksey],  co.  Lincoln,  127. 

Brampton.  Alice  wife  of  Philip,  274. 

,  John  de,  clerk,  182. 

,  •  •  •  •  son  of    Robert   son  of 

Richard  de,   127. 

,  Philip,  274. 

Thomas  son  of  Robert  son  of 

Richard  de,   127. 

Brandsby,  Brandesby  [co.  York], 
lord  of.  See  Ryver,  William 
de  la. 

,  parson      of.       See      Ryver, 

Thomas  de  la. 

Branketre.      See  Braintree. 

Branston.  Braundeston  [co.  Leices- 
ter], 534. 

Brantham,  co.  Suffolk.  542.  549. 

deed  dated  at,    106. 

Brantingham,  Brantyngham  [co. 
York],  272. 

Brantyngham,  William  de,  William, 
84,  2d4.  367,  541. 

constable  of  Somerton 

castle,  553. 

Gf.  Brentingham. 

Bratton.    Peter  de,   44C. 

Gf.  Breton. 

Braughing,  co.  Hertford.  Cockhamp- 
stead,  Cokhamstede,  Cok- 
hamstide  in,  453,  455. 

Braughyng.     See  Braghing. 

Braumfeld.     See    Brayfield. 

Brauncl.e.  William,   1*99. 

Cf.  Brynche. 

Braundeston.     See  Branston. 

Braundeston.  Agnes  de  Foxle,  daugh- 
ter of  John  son  of  Olive  sister 
of  Richard  de,  142. 

John  de,  142. 

,  ....  Assheby  son  of  Mar- 
gery sister  of  Richard  de,  142. 

Mabely  son  of  Richard 

son    of    Margaret     sister    of 
Richard  de,  142. 

Thomas    Woltencote    son    of 

Joan    sister   of    Richard    de. 
142. 

Braumfeld.     See  Brayfield. 

Braunford,  Robert,  webster,  358. 

Braxted,  Great,  Great  Brakstede,  co. 

Kssex.  521. 
Tiptree.        Tiptiv. 

priory  in.  439. 
Bruwghyng.     S< ,    Braghing. 
Bray  [co.  Berks],  manor  of,  farmers 

of,  13. 


GENERAL     CNDEX. 


Bray,  .idiui  wife  o\  John,  tin'  kit 
physician, 

Mm.  Ml. 

tln>   tang's   physician, 

12. 

Nicholas,  43,  i 

Robert,  866,  360 

Walter,  »7<». 

Of.  Brey. 

Braybroki    Sec   Braybrook. 
Braybroke,  Gerard  de,  244. 

...'. knight,    us.    862,   353. 

knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Bedford.  :>:!<;. 

the  elder,  102. 

Isabel    wife    of    Gerard    de, 

862,  863. 

Robert  de,  clerk.  352. 

Bray  brook.     Braybrok.    co.    North- 

ampton.  fee  in.  190. 
Brayfield.  Braunfeld,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, fee  in,  189. 
Cold,  Braumfeld.  Braunfeld 

by  Turvev,  co.  Buckingham. 

fee  in,  191*.  192. 
Brayles,  Robert,  529. 

Thomas  de.  524. 

Bravniff,     Bienyf,      William,      274, 

278. 
Braynok.  Adam,  chaplain,  56. 
Braythwayt.     See    Braithwaite. 
Braytoft,  co.  Lincoln,  fee  in,  161. 
Breadsall.    Breydeshale,   co.    Derby, 

manor  of,  396. 
Brean,   Brene,  co.    Somerset,  manor 

of,  291. 
Breche,  John,  of  Canterbury.  332. 
Brechon.     See   Brecknock. 
Breckeles,  William,  grocer,  of  Lon- 
don,   519. 
Brecknock.    Brechon,    Brekon    [co. 

Brecon],  advowson  of  priory 

of,  25. 

,  honour  of,  290. 

Bredekirk,   Bradekirke,  William  de, 

246. 
,  coroner  of  Lancashire, 

296,  312. 
Bredy.  Little,  co.  Dorset,  Kingston 

Russell  in,  129. 
Bregge,  Philip  atte,  271,  335,  340. 

Cf.  Brigge,  Brugge. 

Brekesheld,   William,   92,   93. 
Brekesperes,  William,   343. 
Brekon.     See   Brecknock. 
Brembre.     See  Bramber. 
Brembre,   Idonea  wife  of  Nicholas, 

116. 
,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  362, 

435. 


Brembre,  Nicholas — cont. 

citizen  Oi  London,  1 15, 

116.  253.  266,  468,  660. 

collector  of  tho  great 

custom  in  the  port  of  Lon- 
don.  166. 

,    .....  merchant  of  London, 

:i.-.7. 

Bremsshete.  John.  425. 

Brendoll.     See  Arundel. 

Brendewode.     See   Brentwood. 

Brene.     See  Brean. 

Brenge.  Brienge,  John,  514. 

...  William,  64,  84,  256,  362. 

Brenloy  [in  Bough  ton  under  Blean, 
co.  Kent]  ?  Brvnkele,  Botiler 
of,  267. 

Brent  Eleigh,  BrondiUeye,  co.  Suf- 
folk, manor  of,  312. 

Pelham.     See  Pelham. 

Brentingham.  Thomas,  bishop  of 
Exeter,  39,  384.  497. 

Cf.   Brantyngham. 

Brentwood,  Brondewodo.  co.  Essex, 
364. 

Brenyf.     See  Brayniff. 

Breouse,  Brewose.  Beatrice  wife  of 
Thomas,    knight,    73. 

Katherine,    Katherine    de, 

199,  234,  240. 

,    .  .  .  .,  daughter  of  Thomas 

de  Norwicz,  84. 

Cf.  Brewes. 

Brertram,  Nicholas,  sliipmaster  of 
Catalonia,   217. 

Brervfeld  [in  Eardisley  ?],  co.  Here- 
ford, lordship  of,  370,  490. 

Brest  [France,  dep.  Finistere],  de- 
fence of,  385. 

Bresvngham,  Sampson  de,  of  Kent, 
67,  68. 

Bret,  Brette,  Brit,  John,  John  de, 
242. 

,   .."..,  knight,  225,  226,  346. 

,  Robert,  447. 

William  son  of  Walter,  of 

Wintringham,    233. 

Bretby,  John,  John  de,  clerk,  274, 
275,   277. 

Breton,  Bretton,  Bretoun,  Adam,  of 
Staffordshire,  75. 

,  John,    John    de,    199,  233, 

240,  266,   348,   360,  431. 

Cf.  Bratton. 

Brette.     See   Bret. 

Brettenham,  Brythenham,  co.  Nor- 
folk, 246. 

Bretton.     See  Breton. 

breviary,   bequest  of,   240. 

Brewes,  Agnes  wife  of  John  de,  343. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


591 


Brewes — cont. 

John.  John  de,  220,  232. 

,    ,  knisht,  234,  343. 

Margaret  (de  Nerford)  wife 

of  John,  158. 

Peter,   knight,  245. 

Cf.  Breouse. 

Brewood,  co.  Stafford,  Coven  in,  209. 
Brewose.     See  Breouse. 
Brey,  Richard,   190. 

Cf.  Bray. 

Breydeshale.     See  Breadsall. 

Brian.     See  Briene. 

Brian  Askham-     See  Askham. 

Brice,  Richard,  307. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Ulchester,  collector 

of  the  tenth  and  fifteenth  in 

Somerset,  1. 
Brickendon,     Brokyndon,     Brykyn- 

don  [in  Hertford],  co.  Hert- 
ford,  446,   447,   531. 
Bridhroke.     Ses     Birdbrook. 
Briddale.  Henry  de,  clerk,  98. 
Bridde.  Bryd,  Agnes  wife  of  Stephen, 

341. 

,  Stephen,  283,  341. 

Cf.  Bride. 

Briddesthorne.     See   Burston. 
Bride,  Richard,  of  West  Walton,  307. 
.......     Cf.   Bridde. 

Bridecote,  John,  of  London,  127. 

Bridemere    Robert,   132. 

Bridge    House,    the    Briggehous    in 

Uprninster,  co.  Essex,  116. 
bridges,    repair    of,     1 85,    220,    523, 

533. 
Bridgnorth.  Bruggenorth  [co.  Salop], 

burgesses   of,    in   parliament, 

430. 
castle    of,    keeper   of.     See 

Bello  Campo,  John  de. 
Bridgwater,     Briggewauter,     Ponte- 

walter  [co.  Somerset],  bailiffs 

of,  102. 

,  hospital  of,  master  of,  307. 

,  Horsey,  Horcy  in,  159. 

Bridlington,      co.      York,      I'lromo, 

Ulram  in,  493. 
Bridport,  Eloanor  wife  of  Thomas, 

15,  20. 

,  Thomas,  15,  20,  30. 

Briedlep,    Bryedlep,   Nicholas,    194. 
Briene,  Brian,  Bryan,  Bryene.  Guy 

de,  74,  487,  502,  546,  551. 
,     constable     of     St. 

Briavel's  castle,   194. 
,    ,   knight,    74,    82,   229, 

324,   365,  440,  462,   521. 

,  the  elder,  278. 

,    .  .  .  .,    .  .  .  .,  the  son,  530. 


Briene,  Guy — cont. 

,   ....  son  of  Guy  de,  son  of 

Elizabeth  la  Despenser,  481. 

,  John  de,  clerk,   530. 

,  William    son    of    Guy     de, 

186,  278. 

See  Bryan. 

Brienge.     See  Brenge. 

Brigge,  John  atte,  del,  of  Barton 
on  Humber,   451. 

,    clerk,  209. 

Cf.   Bregge,   Brugge. 

Briggeford,  John,  210. 

Briggehous.     See    Bridge    House. 

Briggewauter.     See    Bridgwater. 

Brigntlegh,  Brighlegh,  Brightle, 
Agnes  (de  Merton)  wife  of 
John  de,  292. 

,  John  de,  292. 

,  Lawrence  brother  of  William 

de,  249,  250. 

William,    William    de,    of 

Devon,  249,  250. 

Brightley,  Brightlegh  [in  Okehamp- 
ton],  co.  Devon,  deed  acknow- 
ledged at,  250. 

Brigstock,  Brixstoke.  co.  Northamp- 
ton, keeper  of  park  of.  See 
Luffewyk,  John  de. 

Brikles,  John,  of  London,  'marsshal.' 
333. 

Cf.  Brockeles. 

Brimington,  co.  Derby,  Inkersall, 
Hynkerreshulle  in,  225. 

Brimpsfield,  Brymesfeld,  co.  Glou- 
cester, manor  of,  96. 

Brimsham,  Brynsham  in  Nether- 
bury  [co.  Dorset].  531. 

brine,  bullaries  of,  175,  383. 

Bringhurst,  Bryngherst  [co.  Leices- 
ter], 76. ' 

,  Drayton  in.  257. 

Brinyton.  Bryngton.  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 146. 

Brislington,  Bristilton.  co.  Somerset, 
fee  in,   307. 

Bristol.  Bristow  e.  135,  182,  219.  303, 
324,  325,  480,  482,  491,  502, 
520. 

bailiffs  of,  168,  202,  412. 

burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

467. 

coroner  of,   1 35. 

deeds    acknowledged      at, 

118. 

escheator  in.     See  Canyr 

William, 

foreign  court  of,  306. 

master  of  the  barge  of.     See 

Godfrey,   John. 


GENERAL  IXHKX. 


Bristol    ami, 

in.i\  >>r  of,   II.    102 

202,  291,  303, 
nl&o       Canyngs, 
Frompton,  W  alter 


135,  168, 
412. 

William : 
de. 


ma\  urn  It  \    BOal  of,    117.    11^ 

merchants  of,  412,  B02. 

port  of,  291,  303,  393.  480. 

collectors  of  ouatoma 

and  subsides  in,  l  7o.  :!(i.">.  H2. 

Beaupyne,  Thomas, 

keepers  of  passauo  in, 

1  35. 

prise  of  wine  in,  893. 

St.  Augustine's  abbey,  abbot 

of,  218,  219,  307. 
St.  John's  hospital,  master 

of.  307. 
sheriff  of,  11.  102,  135,  283, 

291,  303,  365,  467. 

taxation   in.   '20(1. 

Briston,  co.  Norfolk,  fee  in.  24,  25. 
Briston,  John  de,  24. 
Bristowe.     Set    Bristol. 
Bristowe,  William  de,  William    535. 

baker,  of  London,  200. 

Brit.     Set    Bret. 

Britford,    Brytford,    William.    281. 

289. 
Brittany  [France],  254,  291,  417. 

coa-t  of,   B2 

duke  of.     See  Monte  Forti, 

Jolin  de. 

men  of,  417.  489,  490. 

Brixstoke.     »SV<    Brigstock 
Broadwell.  Bradewelle  fin  Leaming- 
ton Hastings,    co.    Warwick], 

122. 

mill  in,   122. 

brocage,    54.    178. 

Brocas.    13rokas,    Brokaz,    Bernard, 

knight,   73.  85,  88,   107-109, 

111,  201,  226,  280,  354,  425, 

528,  542. 

,  John,  419. 

Brocham.  Roger,  draper,  of  London, 

424. 
Brockton,  Brokton  [in  Sutton  Mad- 

dock],  co.   Salop,   483. 
Brocton.     See  Brotton. 
Brode,  John.  212,  495,  655. 

,  Thomas  de  la.  chaplain,  175. 

Brodhejm.  William,  of  Havering  atte 

Bower,    365. 
Brodok,   Brodhoke,   John,    510. 
, of  London,  fishmonger, 

253. 

,  Maud,  510. 

,  Thomas,  253,  259. 

Brodstrete.     See  Bradstrete. 


Broghton.     Set    Broughton. 
Brokas,  Brokaz.     's'<<    Brocas. 
Broke,  Brouk,  John,  Bhipman,  553, 
656. 

Maud,  of  Spalding,  254. 

Richard,  citizen  of  London, 

1 1  i 

Walter,  chaplain,   Bfi 

Brokelesby,  Ralph  die,  knight,  472. 
Brokhampton,   John,   443. 
Brokhols,   Roger  de,    knight  of  the 

sliiro   of    Lancaster,   429. 

Cf.    Brokushole. 

Brokton.     fifes  Brockton. 
Brokushole,    Geoffrey    do,    son    of 

Juliana  daughter  of  Guy  do 

Mancestre,  35. 

Cf.  Brokhols. 

Brokworth,  Simon  do,  prior  of  Lan- 

thony.  479. 
Brokyndon.      See  Briokondon. 
Brom.     See  Broome. 
Brom,  Robert,  of  Warwick,  77.  82, 

83.    1  10,   320. 
Brome,  Broom  [co.  Suffolk],  parson 

of.     See    Daventre,    John. 
Bromersh,  Robert,  73. 
Bromfeld.      See    Bramfjeld,     Brom- 

field. 
Bromfield,     co.    Cumberland,    Blen- 

cogo.  Blencogou,  Blencogowe 

in,  19,  27. 

, Crookdake  in,   1 9. 

,    Dundraw,  Dundragh 

and  other  places  named  in,  53. 

Langrigg  in,  60. 

Lutlbromfeld    and    Micliel- 

bromfeld,  co.  Salop,  528. 
Bromhulle,    Richard   de,   parson   of 

Chaddesley  Corbet,   383. 
Bromhurst.     See  Broomhurst. 
Bromley,   Brambele,  co.   Middlesex, 

108,  201. 
Brompton  [in  Kensington],  co.  Mid- 
dlesex,   256. 
Brompton,  Brumpton,  Alice  wife  of 

Philip  de,  195. 
Hugh  de,  of  London,  skinner, 

346. 

,  Philip  de,  195. 

,  William  de,  65. 

Bromsgrove,  co.  Worcester,  Timber- 
hanger,  Tymberhongle  in,  383. 
Bromwych,      Broumwych,      Brum- 

wych,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John, 

112. 
,  John,  John  de,  knight,  96, 

112,   257,   258. 

,  Walter,  530. 

Brond,  John,  of  London,  210, 


GENERAL 

Brondilleye.     See  Brent  Ektigh. 
Brook  Street,   Sedeburghebroke   [in 

South  Weald],  co.  Essex,  hos- 
pital of  St.  John  Baptist, 
advowson  of,    34<». 

Broom.     See  Brome. 

Broome,  Brom  [co.  Norfolk],  84. 

Broomfield,  Bromfeld.  co.  Essex, 
fee  in,  22. 

Broomhill,  Promliill  [co.  Kent  and 
Sussex],   207. 

deed  dated  at.  207. 

Broomhurst.  Bromhui->t  [near 
Lyminster],   co.    Sussex,    519. 

Brotton,  Brocton,  co.  York,  manor 
of,  560. 

Brougham,  Burgham,  co.  West- 
moreland, 411. 

mill  in.  411. 

Broughton,  Broghton,  co.  Bucking- 
ham,   1  54. 

Broghton,  co.  Northampton, 

154. 

co.    Oxford,    advowson    of, 

528. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  528. 

North     Newington, 

Northnewenton   in,    528. 

,  co.  Wilts.  Elcombe  in,  538. 

Astley,  Asteley  [co.  Leices- 
ter], parson  of.  See  Rede, 
Kobert. 

Hackett,  Haket  [co.  Worces- 
ter] David  parson  of,  242. 

Broughton,  Broghton,  John,  John 
de,  547. 

escheator  in  Bedford- 
shire, 20,  360. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ....  in  Buckingham- 
shire, 8,  12,  20,  24,  25,  29, 
52,    483. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Cambridge- 
shire, 51,  52. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ....  in  Huntingdon- 
shire,   24. 

, ,  of  Oxfordshire,  206. 

Nicholas,  275,  276. 

,  William  de,  111. 

Brouk.     See  Broke. 

Broumwych.     See     Bromwych. 

Broun,  Browne,  Andrew,  23d. 

,  of  Northampton,  230. 

,  Arnald,  of  Sandwich,  296. 
,   Eleanor  wife  of  John.  19. 
,  Hubert,  510. 
,  John,   19,   88,   472. 

,  chaplain.  250,   323. 

,    ....   son  of  John,  of    Bar- 
netby  le  Wold,  451. 
Richard,  of  Southwark,  273. 

Wt.  11824. 


INDEX.  593 

Broun,  Richard—  cant. 

son  of  Agnes,  368,  36!). 

,  clerk,   424. 

,  the  Icing's  smith,  342. 

,  Robert,  under  bailiff  of  the 

honour  of  Rayleigh,   3. 

,  Walter,  of  Norwich.  11. 

William,  34. 

Cf.  Brune. 

Broun  Candevere.     See  Candover. 

Brounesbury,  John,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don/232. 

Cf.  Burmusbury. 

Brounfeld,  Sewallde,  ofWrittle,  183. 

Brounhill,  William,  of  Scotland,  171, 
172. 

Brouns,  William,   68. 

Browe,  Hugh,  knight,  331. 

Brown    Candover.     See  Candover. 

Browne.     See  Broun. 

Broxburne,  John,  of  London,  112. 

Bruce  Grove,  Berwyswode  in  Tot- 
tenham,  co.    Middlesex,   259. 

Brndenell,  Brudnelle,  Edmund,  of 
Northamptonshire,   525,   545. 

Bruern  [co.  Oxford],  abbot  and  con- 
vent of,   517. 

Bruge.     See   Brugge. 

Bruges,  Brugges  [Flanders],  69,  509. 

merchants  of  Catalonia  at, 

196. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  seal  of,  1 96. 

,  town  of,  seal  of,  310. 

,  truce  made  at,  365. 

Brugge,  Bruge,  Bruges,  Brugges, 
Baldwin  de,   112. 

,  Edmund  atte,  de,  escheator 

in  Gloucestershire,  180,  184, 
292,  298,  305,  308,  380,  388, 
481. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Hereford- 
shire, 181,  192,  193,  290,  294, 
298,   305,  312,  370,   379. 

, ".  .  in  the  march  of 

Wales,  181,  192,  193,  294, 
305,  308,  312,  388. 

,  .  . .  . ,  ....  in  Worcester- 
shire,   175. 

,  Peter  de,  43,  85,  269. 

Thomas    de,    escheator    in 

Worcestershire,  481,   493. 

Walter,  335. 

Cf.  Bregge,  Brigge. 

Bruggenorth.     See  Bridgnorth. 

Brugges.     See  Bruges,   Brugge. 

Brampton.     See  Brompton. 

Brumstead,  Brumstedc.  lhunstede, 
co.  Norfolk,  221. 

advowson  of,   192.  L93. 

Brumwyoh.    See   Bromwvoh. 

cb  38 


GENERAL     IM»i-:\. 


Bran.     >'<<   Brayn. 

;nl'\  .      Si  ■     I  tumbj  . 
Branby,  John  son  * •  i  Arnald  de,  163. 

mdale,   William  de,   of   Norfolk, 

r  •     I tranne,  < leoffrey  de,  'M\\. 

lolm.  John  do,  pf  ^^  illing- 

hain.   182,   537   539. 

Robert  de,  monk  of  Beter- 

borongh,   I 

William.  216. 

Cf.    Bourn.    Broun. 

Branham.     Set  Buxnhanx 

Brunham.  Thomas,  of  London.  2 

Cf.  Bumham. 

Brunne.     «S'<<-  Bourn,  Brune. 

Brunstedc.     ><<    Bruxnstead. 

Brunston.  Richard,  554. 

Brustewyk.    Brustwyk.      See    Burst- 
wick. 

Bruj-n.  Brun.  Alice  (Lacer)  wife  of 

William,  knight,  271.   340. 
Tngelrnm.  271,  340. 

son  of  William,  knight, 

163,  335. 

,  Maurice  le.  de.  22. 

knight  of  the  shire  of 

Southampton,  536. 

the  elder,  129. 

the  younger,   129. 

William,  knight,   335. 

Bryan.  John,  fishmonger  of  London, 
86. 

See   Briene. 

Bryd.     See  Bridde. 

Bryedlep.     See  Briedlep. 

Bryene.     See  Briene. 

Brykvndon.      See  Brickendon. 

Brymeefeld.     See  Brimpsfield. 

Brymons,    Peter,   merchant  of   Bor- 
deaux,   296. 

Bryngherst.     See    Bringhurst. 

Brynche,  William.   78. 

Cf.  Braunche. 

Bryngton.     Sec  Brington. 

Brynkele.     See  Brenley. 

Brynne,   co.    York,    deed   dated    at, 
539. 

,  manor  of,  539. 

Brj-nsham.     See  Brimsham. 

Brytford.     See  Britford. 

Brythenham.     See  Brettenham. 

Bubbe,   Thomas,   burgess  of  King's 
Lynn,   82. 

Bubbyngworth.         See        Bobbing- 
worth. 

Bubwith,     co.     York,     Spaldington, 
Spaldyngton  in,  422. 

Bubwyth,  Henry  de,  of  Pontefract, 
212. 


Buoh,    Buohe   [by    Aroaohon,   <lr>|). 
I  lironde],    oaptal    de.       Sm 

( irailh  .  .Iran  de. 

Buofest.     8*  i   Buckfastleigh. 

Buokby,  Long,  Bukcby  [co.  Xorth- 

ampton ].  l<»7. 
Buekden,    Buckeden,   co.    Hnniing- 

don.  230. 
Buckcnliam,  ( )ld  or  New .  Bokynham, 

oo.  Norfolk,  246. 
Buckfastleigh,  Bucfeat,  Bukfast,  co. 

I  >evon,  abbot  of,  4'.»7. 

and  convent  of,  519. 

Buckingham,  Bokyngham,  Buking- 
ham,   co.    Buckingham,    281, 

289. 

bailiff  of.     See  Eton,  Simon. 

deed  dated   at,   281. 

Bourton,  Boorton  in,  281. 

Buckingham.  Bukingham.  county  of , 

71,  98,  278,  281,  461. 

coroners  of,  477,  497. 

escheator  in.     See   Brough- 

ton,    John  ;      Parker,    John  ; 

Sew  ale,  Thomas. 

issues  of,  121,  161. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

536. 
sheriff  of,   37,   71,   121,   161, 

442,  477,  497,  525,  553. 
Buckland,  Bukeland  [co.  Gloucester], 

manor  of,  276. 
,    Bokelond,   co.   Surrey,   ad- 

vowson  of,   370. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  370. 

Monachorum.  Bukclond,  co. 

Devon,  abbot  of,  497. 
Bucklesham,     Boclesham,     Bukles- 

ham[co.  Suffolk],  321. 

advowson  of,  549. 

Bucknell,  Bekenhull,  Bykenhill,  co. 

Oxford,  manor  of,   324,   326. 
Bucskyn,  Bukskyn,  Bobert,   198. 

,  .....  of  Essex,  196. 

Budbrook  [co.   Warwick],   vicar  of. 

See  Tomkvns,  William. 
BuduL  Robert,  121,  122. 
Buerley.     See  Burley. 
Bugbrooke,   Bukebroke,   co.   North- 
ampton, manor  of,  414. 
Bugbrugge,  William  de,  clerk,  461. 
Bukebroke.     See  Bugbrooke. 
Bukeby.     See  Buckby. 
Bukeden,  Henry,  of  Stamford,  472. 
Bukeland,  Bukelond.    See  Buckland. 
Bukfast.     See  Buckfastleigh. 
Bukhull.     See  Buxhull. 
Bukingham.     See  Buckingham. 
Buklesham.     See  Bucklesham. 
Bukskyn.     See    Buckskyn. 


c  i:\KR.\L     TXDEX. 


505 


Bukstede.     See  Boxted. 

Bukyngham,  Bokyngham,  John  de, 
John,  bishop  of  Lincoln,  28, 
36,  39,  71,  320. 

, ,  clerk,   528. 

, ,  M.A.,  of  Oxford,  476. 

Richard,  182. 

,  Roger  de,  351,  353. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  92,  336, 

445,  456. 

, of     Buckinghamshire, 

248,  284,   534. 

Bulkham,  Jolin  de,  mavor  of  New- 
castle- upon-Tyne.  193,  532. 

bull  of  the  master  of  the  hospital  of 
St.  Jolin  of  Jerusalem,  330. 

Bullingdon,  Bohyngdon  hundred,  co. 
Oxford,  farmer  of,  156,  394. 
See  also  Dammory,  Richard. 

Bullok,  Bollok,  Jolin,  97,  206. 

son  of  Jolin,  of  Focker- 

by,  447. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  tapicer,  of  London,  96. 

Margaret  wife  of  John,  447. 

Robert,  225,  354. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of  Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne,   469. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  278. 

,  William,  38. 

brother  of  John,  96. 

Bulmer,  co.  York,  manor  of,  146, 
147. 

Bumpstead,  Bumpstede,  Dunstede, 
co.  Essex,  manor  of,  116,  117, 
223. 

Helion,     Little    Bumpstede, 

Bumpstede  Helynon,  co. 
Essex,  450. 

,  .  .  .  .,  fee  in,  23. 

,    Steeple.     Stepelbumpstede, 

co.  Essex,  fee  in,  23. 

Bumpsted  Hall,  Bumpstedehalle  in 
Aveley,  co.  Essex,  fee  in,  23. 

Bumstede,  William,  tailor,  of  Lon- 
don, 349. 

Bunfeld,  John,  222. 

Bunse.     See  Binsey. 

Bunsemere,   John,   514. 

Bunseye.     See  Binsey. 

Bunte,  Robert,  141. 

Burcestre,  William,  437. 

Burdeleys.     See  Abergavenny. 

Burdeleysmaner.     See    Birdlimes. 

Burden,  Burdeyn,  Robert,  523. 

,  William,  462. 

Cf.  Borden. 

Burdet,  John,  162,  190,  191. 

Burdeux.     See  Bordeaux. 

Burdeux.  Oliver  de,  480. 

Burdeyn.     See  Burden. 


Bureley.     See  Burley. 

Bures,  John,  44:.'. 

William,  73. 

Burford,  James  de,  knight,  351. 

,  Thomas  de,  chaplain,  175. 

Burgeloun.     See  Burgiloun. 

Burgerssh.     See  Burgherssh. 

Burgeys,  John.  231.  350,  545. 

,  Robert,  of  Melton  Mowbray, 

369,  397,  457. 

,  the  elder,  225. 

Burgh  Wallis,  Burghwalays,  Burgh- 
waleys,  co.  York,  559. 

See   Burrough   Green. 

Burgh,  Borgh,  Borugh,  John,  Jolin 
de,  24,  25. 

, citizen    of    Carlisle   in 

parliament,    537. 

knight,   32,   116,   117, 

360,  513. 

,  . .  .  . ,  parson  of  Colne  Wakes, 

255. 

the  elder,   the  father, 

318 

knight,  439,  511, 

537-539. 

,  .....  the  younger,  318. 

, , ,  knight,  439. 

,  Simon    de,    109,    112,    230, 

458,  549. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  collector  of  subsidy  on 

cloth  in  Essex  and  Herts, 
42. 

,  .....  constable  of  Rochester 

castle,  51. 

, merchant  of  Newcastle 

-upon-Tyne,  381. 

, the  king's  esquire,  im- 
prisonment of,  173,  174. 

Thomas  de,  325,  326. 

.William    do,    William,    198, 

202,  361. 

.....'.,  .  .  .  .,  guardian  of  the  peace 
and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Warwickshire  and 
Coventry,  474. 

,  justice.  300. 

Burgham.     See  Brougham.  Burham. 

Buighorssh,  Burgerssh,  Elizabeth 
(le  Despenser)  daughter  of 
Bartholomew  son  of  Bartholo- 
mew do,  298,  299. 

John  do,  knight,  85,  86,  87. 

Margaret  de,   375,   376. 

Burghwalays,  Burghwaleys.  Set 
Burgh. 

Burgiloun,  Burgeloun,  Burgilloun, 
Burglioun,  John,  of  War- 
wicksliire,  524. 

,  Robert,  55,  511. 


GENERA] 

BurgUoun,  Rol  >>(■ 

guardian  >>t"  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Warwickshire,  474. 

Burgund]  .  prm  inoeof,  I  France],  264. 

Burnam,  Burgham,  co.  (Sent,  541. 

Burkynj       8      Berkyi 

BurlOBOOmbe,  CO.  I  >c\  on.  fees  in.  .->u7. 
18 

Burlej •.  Buerleyi  Bureley,  Richard 
'  de.  860.  ' 

Simon  de.  knight,  424,  426, 

430. 

Cf.  Borlev. 

Burlingham,  South,  Southbyrlyng- 
liam.  Suthbirlyngham  [co. 
Norfolk],  parson  of.  fif«  i  Hey- 
1mm,  James  de. 

Biirmusbury,  .John.  309. 

Cf.  Brounesbury. 

Burnbv,  Bnmbv.  co.  York,  163. 

Buniell.  Burnel.  Edward,  807. 

of  Langley,  483,  484. 

,  Hugeline  (Keyne)  daughter 

of  Edward.  484. 

,  Hugh,  knight,  221.  232. 

,  Joan  (de   la    Lee)  daughter 

of  Edward,  484. 

,  John,  92. 

of  Chillington,  40. 

,  Katherine  daughter  of  Ed- 
ward. 484. 

Margaret    wife   of    Edward, 

483. 

Nicholas,  487. 

knight,  488.  489,  538. 

Burnham  [co.  Buckinghaml,  abbess 
of,  480. 

,  co.  Essex.   71,  54" 

,  .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  267,  545. 

,  . . . .,  Redward,     la     Rede- 

warde  and  Douniswyk  in,  545. 

warrener      of.    t  See 

Garderobe,   Alexander  de  la. 

Deepdale,       Burnham,       co. 

Xorfolk,  fee  in,  24,  25. 

Sutton.  Brunham,  Burnham, 

co.  Xorfolk,  321. 

fee  in,  24,  25. 

Burnham,  Felicia  wife  of  Walter  de, 
77. 

,  Richard,    parson    of    Holy 

Trinity  the  Less,  London,  445. 

,  Walter  de,  77. 

Cf.      Bernham,    Brunham. 

Burnt  Wenham.     See  Wenham. 

Burre,  Peter  son  of  Walter,  1 52. 

Burrough  Green,  Burgh,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, parson  of.  See  Bra- 
keD,  John. 


lXDKV 

Burslall.  co.  Suffolk.  I .Hiijjston.  l.ang- 

•    ton  in,  321,  644 
Burstall,  William  de,  clerk,  249. 
keeper  <>i   the  rolls  of 

chancer; .   ill.  448. 
clerk    of     the 

king's  household,  1 16. 
., deputy  keeper  of 

tho  great  seal,  646. 

,      king's     clerk.      keeper 

of  the  House  of  Converts, 
147. 

Burstead,  Burstode,  Little,  co. 
Essex,   142. 

,  fees  in,  22. 

Burston,  Briddesthorne,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 245. 

Burst  wick,  Brustewyk,  Brustwyk  in 
Holderness,  [co.  York],  manor 
of,  403,  440,  467. 

Bond     Burstwick,     Bonde- 

brustwyk  and  Camerton, 
Cameryngton  in,  440. 

Burstwick  Drain  alias  Hedonflete 
sewer  [between  Hedon  and 
Burstwick,  co.  York],  403, 
467,  468. 

Bursy,  Nicholas,  94. 

Burton  (by  Lincoln),  co.  Lincoln, 
fees  in,  162. 

[in  Aysgarth],  co.  York,  138, 

144. 

Agnes,    Aunays,    co.    York, 

fee  in,  499. 

soke  of,  499. 

Latimer,  Burton,  co.  North- 
ampton, manor  at,  4. 

Overy,  Noveray,  co.  Leices- 
ter, fee  in,  162. 

,  manor  of,  317. 

upon  Stather,    co.    Lincoln, 

Normanbv  in,  443,  444. 

,     Thealby,      Theleby, 

Thelby  in,    451. 

Burton,  Birton,  Bourghton,  Bour- 
ton,  Eleanor  wife  of  William 
de,  169. 

,  Gilbert  de,  274. 

,  Henry  de,  citizen  of  London, 

269. 

,  John  de,  John,  425.  542. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chandler,    of    London, 

274. 

, ,  clerk,  325. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Nottingham,  428. 

, ,  of    Newark,    333. 

, ,  of    Yorkshire,    200. 

,  Maud  de,  217. 

,  Richard,  274. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


597 


Burton — cont. 

Robert,     parson    of     South 

Ockendon,  271,  333,  340. 
513,  521. 

Thomas   de,    knight   of    the 

shire  of  Rutland,  428. 

William   de,    goldsmith,    of 

London,  195. 

, ,  knight,  101,  169. 

, of   Cambridge,    100. 

Cf.  Borton. 

Burwe,  John  atte.  92. 

Cf.  Barewe,  Barowe,  Barvve. 

Burwell,  co.  Cambridge,  208. 

Burwell,  John,  citizen  of  London, 
127. 

Bury,  Adam  de.  439. 

,  .  .  .  .,  citizen  of  London,  296, 

442,  443. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  mayor  of  London,  89, 

358,  543. 

,  Blase  de,  442. 

,  .....  skinner,  441. 

,  William  de,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 234,  236,  237. 

, fishmonger,  of  London, 

<*      105. 

Cf.  Byry. 

Bury  St.  Edmunds,  St.  Edmunds, 
co.   Suffolk,   187,   188.  504. 

,  abbot  of,  394,  504. 

,  deed  acknowledged  at,  516. 

,  liberty  of,   504. 

Burythorpe,  Berthorp,  co.  York,  146. 

Busard.     See  Bussard. 

Buscot,  Borewardescote,  co.  Berks, 
advowson  of,  27. 

,  deed  dated  at,  217. 

,  Michaelscourt  in,  217. 

Bush  ley,  Bischelev,  co.  Worcester, 
manor  of,  306,  307. 

Bushwood,  Byswode  [in  Old  Strat- 
ford [detached),  co.  Warwick], 
255. 

,  manor  of,  255. 

Bussard,  Busard,  John,  clerk,  67. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Copcourt,  539. 

Busshe,  WTilliam,  knight,  361. 

Busshel,  Richard,  255. 

Bussy,  John,  John  de,  154. 

,  William,  escheator  in  Lin- 
colnshire, 395,  477,  480,  494, 
501,   506,   507. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Lincoln,  428. 

Bustlesham.     See  Bisham. 

But,  Joan  wife  of  William,  253. 

William,  253,  362. 

Butcombe,  Bodecombo,  Wodecombe, 
co.  Somerset,  foos  in,  307. 


I  '.utrll.  r.     See  Boteler. 
Buterie.     See  Botellerie. 
Buterleye,  Blanche  wife  of  Roger  son 

of  Robert  de,   knight,   528. 
Butiller,  Butler.     See  Boteler. 
butter,  441,  442. 
Butterwick,    Boterwyk,    Butterwyk 

[co.  Lincoln],  Doget  of.  See 
Doget. 

Butterwyk.  See  Boterwick,  Butter- 
wick. 

Buttetourt,  Bottourt,  Buttourt, 
Joan  (Knyvet)  daughter  of 
John,  509/510. 

,  John,  John  de,  23,   30,  55, 

341,  509-511. 

,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Warwickshire,  474. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John,  509- 

511. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John,  30. 

Buttiller.     See  Boteler. 

Buttourt.     See  Buttetourt. 

Buttsbury,  Botelespirie,  co.  Essex, 
1 36. 

Buxhull,  Bukhull,  Buxhill,  Alan  de, 
constable  of  the  Tower  of 
London,  121,  123,  194,  216, 
217,  238,  304,  313,  386,  433, 
437-439,  442,  443,  478,  488, 
495,  506,  530,  541,  551,  555. 

Bychamwelle.     See  Beechamwell. 

Byde,  William,  clerk,  73. 

Bydeford.     See    Bideford. 

Bydyk,  Godfrey,  323,  433. 

Byenstede.     See  Binsted. 

Byeston,  Thomas,  vicar  of  Edmon- 
ton, 133. 

Byflete,  Thomas,  92,  425. 

Bygenet,  John,  of  Witney,  72. 

By  god.     See  Bygot. 

Bygoun,  John,  of  Bedfordshire, 
347. 

Bygot,  Bygod,  John,  329. 

,  escheator  in  Cumber- 
land, 482,  501. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Northumber- 
land, 398,  507. 

,  .  .  . . ,  ....  in  Westmore- 
land, 499,  500. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Yorkshire,  422, 

476,  499-501. 

, guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  in  the  East  Riding 
of  Yorkshire,  465,  555. 

,  Thomas,  527. 

Bykemorssh,  Thomas,  27i>. 

Bykenhill.     See  Buc knell. 

Bykenore.      8ee  Bicknor. 


CJENERAL     INDEX. 


Byker,  <>>.  Northumberland,  chapel 
ni   St.   Laurence,  chantrj    in, 

Is.  in. 

lor.l  of,   10. 

s-  <  I  ticker. 

Bj  ley,  William  de.  472. 
Hylyml.ui.      >Yc    Bilyncdon. 
Bylle,  John,  »>f  Devises,  4tif>. 
Byndre,   Peter  de,  keeper  of  wines, 

11. 

Cf.  Bynl 

Byng,      l;  [in      PettiBtree], 

co.  Suffolk,  manor  of,  395. 
Byngham,    Gilbert,    of     Barton    on 

Humber,    333. 
William,    collector    of    tlio 

tenth  and  fifteenth  in  Somer- 
set, 1. 
Bynham.     S<  i  Binham. 
Byntre,  Elli.s  de,  parson  of  Dalham. 

2.'}  4. 

Cf.  Byndre. 

Byroun,  Richard,  318. 

Byrwyn,  Henrv,  burgess  of  Newport, 

'  374. 
Byry,   John  cle.    329. 
,    parson    of  What  lev, 

323. 

Cf.   Bury. 

Bys,    William.    Btockfishmonger    of 

London.  198. 
Byslee.  Hugh  de,  565. 
Bysschopestrowe.    See  Bishopstrow. 
Bysshop.     See  Bisshop. 
Bysshopeston.     See  Bisshopeston. 
Byswode.     See  Bushwood. 
Bvtham  [co.  Lincolnl,  great  park  of, 

361. 
,     lord     of.         See     Colville, 

Robert  de. 

,  lordship  of,  260. 

Bythewater,    Bethewater,     Bichard, 

chaplain,  357,  435. 

Cf.  Attewatre,  Water. 

Bytteberugh.     See  Bidborougli. 


Cachepol,  John,  citizen  of  Hereford 

in  parliament,  430. 
Cadbury,  North,  Northcadebury  [co. 

Somerset],  church  of,  240. 
Cadeby,  Kateby,  co.  Lincoln,  fee  in, 

161. 


( iaernarA  anshire,     ><  •  I  larnan  <>n. 
( iaerphilly,  Kerj  filly  [<•<».  Glamorgan], 

itiiti. 

sastle  of,  306. 

hundred   of.     8t  •    Benghi  n 

nyd. 
Caerwedros,   Kaerwedros,  co.  Cardi- 
al, commote  of,  406,  107. 
i  i    Lewis,  L20. 
Caillesthorp.     >'<<  Calsthorpe. 
Calais.  60,   323,  384.  406,  408,   400, 

5i>2.  552. 
captain   of,    378.     See  also 

Calveley,  1  [ugh  de. 
,  journey  ot  the  chancellor  to, 

546. 

,  mayor  of,    4!)!>. 

,  prohibition  of  trade  over  sea 

except  with,  442. 
purveyance  of  victuals  for, 

404. 
purveyor    of    victuals    for. 

See   Rednesse,  William  de. 
,  staple  Of,  49,  170.  364,  371, 

378,  379,  381,  384,  404,  4U5, 

412. 
,  treasurer  of.     See  Ayremyn. 

William  ;    Gun  thorp,  William 

de  ;    Romeseye,  John  de. 
Caldbeck,  co.  Cumberland.  Warnell, 

Warnhill  in,  6. 
Caldecote.     See  Caldecott,  Caldicote. 
Caldecott,  Caldecote  [co.  Hertford], 

88. 
Caldewell.     See  Caldwell. 
Caldicote,  Caldecote  [co.  Monmouth], 

advowson  of  chapel  of,  25. 
Caldwell,   Caldewell  [in  Kiddermin- 
ster],   co.    Worcester,    manor 

of,  383. 
Callan  [co.  Kilkenny],  Ireland,  46. 

,  advowson  of,   46. 

Callerton,   High,   Calverdon   Valens 

[in  Ponteland],  co.  Northum- 
berland, 507. 
Calneshoo,  John,  510. 
Calsthorpe,     Caillesthorp,     Kayles- 

thorp   [in  Kelstern],  co.  Lin- 
coln, advowson  of,  163. 

,  fee  in,  161. 

Calthorne,  William  de,  59. 
Calveley,  Calvyle,  Calvylegh,  Hugh 

de,    captain    of    Calais,    365, 

377. 
,     . . . . ,    keeper     of     Jersey, 

Guernsey,  Alderney  and  Sark, 

496. 
Calverdon.     See  Callerton. 
Calverleigh,   Calwodele,   co.   Devon, 

fee  in,  308. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


599 


Calvington,  Calvyngton,  Cahvynton 

[in   Great  Bolas,   co.   Salop], 

526,  536. 
Calvyle,  Calvylegh.     See  Calvelev. 
Calvyngton.     See  Calvington. 
Cahver.  William,  of  Holkham,   171, 

L72. 
Calwodele.     See  Calverleigh. 
Cahvodele,  Andrew  de,  308. 
Cahvynton.     See   Calvington. 
Caly,  Robert,  209. 
Cam,  Philip,  fitz  Davy,  304. 
Camberwell,     co.     Surrey,     Dowlas 

alias  Douedales  in,  64. 
Cambridge,      Cantebrigge,       Cante- 

bruge,  Cauntebrigge  [co. Cam- 
bridge], 61,  62,  96,  100,  116, 

117,  203,  204,  282. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

430. 

,  carpenter  of,  447. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  62,  116,  117. 

,  goldsmith   of,   62. 

,  King's  Hall  [site  of  Trinity 

College],    hall    of    the    king's 

scholars,     warden     of.       See 

Ronhale,    Richard. 
Cambridge,     Cantebrigge,     earl     of. 

See  Edmund. 
Cambridge,  Cantebrigge,  county  of, 

63,    78,    105,    198,    223,    246, 

254,358,511. 

,  coroners  of,  119,  187,  379. 

,  escheator  in.      See  Brough- 

ton,    John ;     Parker,    John ; 

Sewale,  Thomas. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

536. 
,  sheriff  of,  62,  113,  119,  180, 

187,     247,     379,     446,      517, 

547. 
Camel.     See  Camell. 
Camelford,  co.  Cornwall,  409. 
Camell,  Camel,  Robert,  223. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Devon,  94. 

Camera,  Cicely  de  Cotoum  daughter 

of  Ambrose  de,  500. 

Cf.  Chambre. 

Camerton,   spring  in,   Cameryngton 

welle  [in  Burstwick],  co.  York, 

440. 
Cameryngham.    See  Cammeringham. 
Cameryngham,  Nicholas,Nicholas  de, 

468,  472. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Lincolnshire,  368. 

Cameryngton.     See  Camerton. 
Cammeringham.  Cameryngham  [co. 

Lincoln],  72. 
Camoys,  Cammoys,  Hugh,  Hugh  de, 

knight,  85,  88,  226,  449. 


Camoys — cont. 

Isabel  de,  abbess  of  Romsey, 

44!t. 
Campana,  Robert,   189. 
Cf.  Champaigne,     Chaum- 

peyn. 
Campe.     See   Kampen. 
Campo,  Robert,  235. 
Campeden,    Oaumpeden,    John    de, 

John,  clerk,  528. 
,  prebendary     of    Dun- 
ham upon  Trent,    356. 
Campsall,  co.  York,  Norton  in,  451. 
Candelesby,  Hugh  de,  clerk,  official 

of    the    archdeacon    of    Ely, 

62. 
Candover,  Brown.  Broun  Candevero, 

co.  Hants,  335. 
Canfield,  Little,  Little  Canefeld,  co. 

Essex,    514. 

,  .  .  .  .,  fee  in,  23. 

Cannock,  Cannokbury,  co.  Stafford, 

161. 
Canons  Ashby.     See  Ash  by. 
Cantebrigge,        Cantebruge.         See 

Cambridge. 
Cantelowe.     See   Cantilupo. 
Cantelsangre,  Thomas,  92. 
Canterbury,   Canterbirs   [co.    Kent], 

205,  269.  332,  342. 
,  archbishop  of,  207.     See  also 

Sudbury,  Simon  de  ;  Whittle- 
sey, William  de. 
,  archbishopric    of,    guardian 

of  spirituality  of,  96,  224. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  voidance  of,  53,  57,  81 , 

499. 

,  bailiffs  of,  296. 

,    ....   and    commonalty    of, 

412. 
,  cardinal  of.     See  Langham, 

Simon  de. 

,  chapter  of,  116,  466. 

,  Christ  Church,  prior  of,  30, 

466. 
,  . .  .  . ,  ....    and  convent  of, 

247,  282,  285,  311. 
,  convocation    of    clergy    of 

province  of,  347,  469. 

,  court  of,  200,  270,  542,  548. 

,  deeds  acknowledged  at,   94, 

332. 

,  ....  dated  at,   531. 

,  disturbances  at,  412. 

,  justices  in  eyre  at,  80,  81. 

,  liberties  of,  412. 

,  Ronnuiand   in.   531. 

,  St.  Augustine's  abbey,  abbot 

of,  94,  260,  261,  282,  285,  466. 

See  also  Colwoll,   Thomas. 


GENERAL     l\l»E\. 


ii<  i-Imiii  .  Bt    ^.nguetino'fi  abbe] 
"t. 

i     of,    138 

81     I'aul  in  the  suburb  of, 

pariah  of,  531. 
Cantilupo,    Cantelowe,    Cauntelowe, 
rlugelina  v  John  de,  229. 

John  <!<•    i  Ink.   534. 

boo  of   Robert,  of  Ed- 

ington,  8( 

.Maud  de,  255. 

Nicholas  de,  knight,  154. 

bod  of  William  boii  of 

Nicholas  de,  1  54. 

Robert  bod  of  Robert,  81 

\\  illiam  de,  knight,  86. 

bod    of     Nicholas    de, 

154. 

son  of  William  de,  l  54. 

canvas,  canevaoe,   IT--'.  291. 

bag  of,  136. 

Canyngs,  Canygnis,  John,  lessee  of 
subsidy .  206. 

Simon,    lessee    ot    subsidy, 

206. 

William,      mayor     of,     and 

espheatorin  Bristol,  1. 
Capel,  -loan  atte,  531 . 
Capelond.  William.  111. 
Capenor  [in  Portishead],  co.  Somer- 
set, fee  in.  307. 
Capoun,  Cuthbert,  79. 
Capper,  William,  burgess  of  Notting- 
ham in  parliament,  537. 
Capy,  Jolin,  350. 
Cardel,  John,  78. 
Cardens,  Cardons  in  Great  Chishall, 

co.  Essex,  fee  in,  24. 
Cardiff.  Kerdyf  [co.  Glamorgan],  ex- 
chequer of,  418,  485. 

,  receiver  of  lordship  of,  484. 

Cardigan,    Cardygan,    co.    Cardigan, 
406. 

,  castle  of,  406. 

,  justices  at,  406. 

Cardons.     See  Cardens. 
Cardoun,  William,  of  Tilbrook,  241. 
Cardygan.     See  Cardigan. 
Carebroke.     See  Carisbrook. 
Careles,  Joan    (Lestraunge)    wife  of 
John,  314. 

,  John,   314. 

Careswall,  Peter  de,  knight,  430. 

,  Richard  de,  king's  sergeant, 

247. 
Carethorp,  Jolin  de,  parson  of  West 

Tanfleld,  146. 
Carevylle,  John,  221. 
Carew,  Carrewe  [co.  Pembroke],  fees 
in,  191,  192. 


Carewe.     Set  Carreu. 
'     i i'w int.  Nicholas,  clerk.  201 , 
Caridany,  Marianus,  <>i  Ireland.  375. 
Carisbrook,  Carebroke  castle,  Isle  <>i 

\\  igh( .  keej  ier  of.     St  <  T\  rell, 

Hugh. 
Carleu,  Cartel,  Kartell,  Karlille,  Adam 

de,  draper,  of  London,  517. 

.Mai\    wife  of  Adam  de.  517. 

William.  William  de.  517. 

baron  of  the  exchequer 

Of    Ireland.    146,    295. 

clerk.  447. 

Carleol.     Set  Carlisle. 
CarletOD.      Set  Carlton. 
Carlisle,     Carleol,     Carloil,     Karlill. 
Karliol.  co.  Cumberland,  50. 
bishop   of.      St  >    A]  ipleby, 

Thomas  de. 
bishopric    of,    liberties    of, 

313,  314. 

casl  le  j^'il  at,  263. 

citizens   of,    in    parliament, 

537. 

exchequer  of,  26,  119,  121. 

mayor  and   bailiffs  of,   18. 

prison  at,  34.  90,  263. 

,  toll  at,  IS. 

Carlow,     Catherlagh     [co.     Carlow], 

Ireland.    387. 
Carlton.    Curleton    by    Warthull    [in 

Helmsley],   co.   York,    164. 
Carleton     in     Craven     [co. 

York,    W.R.I,   250. 
Colville,  Carleton,  co.  Suffolk, 

advowson  of,  305. 

,  manor  of,  305. 

Curlieu,       Carleton,      Curie, 

Curly,  co.  Leicester,  149. 
,  parson  of.      See  Frise- 

by,  John  de. 
Highdale,  Carleton  [in  Cover- 
ham],  co.  York,  138,  144. 
Carlton,  Carleton,  Henry,  Henry  de, 

351. 

, ,  clerk,  387. 

,  Ivo  de,  265. 

,  John  de,  343. 

,  Richard  de,  of  Bedfordshire, 

359. 
Carmelite  friars.     See  friars. 
Cam,  co.  Wexford,  Castletown,  Cas- 

terton  in,  387. 
Carnarvon,    county  of,  Caernarvan- 

shire,   county  court  of,   405, 

406. 
Carnelles,  Camel,  Cameles,  Camels, 

Chamels,     Karnell',  Karnels, 

Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas  de, 
244. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


601 


Carnelles — cont. 

John,    189,    190,    207,    360, 

444. 

eseheator  in  North- 
amptonshire. 142,  146,  155, 
158,  175.  181,  189,  192,  291, 
293,  30G,  312.  315,  419. 

,  ....  in  Rutland,  125, 

176. 

Maud   wife   of   Thomas  de, 

244. 

,  Thomas  de,  244. 

,  William,  1 90. 

Carnforth,  Kemeford  [in  WartonJ, 
co.   Lancaster.   500. 

Carpenter.  Hugh,  chaplain  of  Dag- 
nall  chantry,  328. 

,  Jolm,    115. 

Carrere,  Messias,  Massian,  merchant 
of  Catalonia,  196,  291. 

Carres,  Gabriel,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia, 196. 

Carreu,  Carewe,  Carrewe,  Carru, 
David  de,  74. 

Johnde,  191,  192. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  115. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  portioner  of  Bedding- 
ton  church,  74. 

,  Nicholas,    Nicholas   de,    74, 

256,  259,  270,  273,  434,  435, 
468,  469,  508,  513,  521,  529, 
530,  546. 

,  .  .  .  .,  keeper    of    the    privy 

seal,  88,  249,  444,  466. 

, ,  the    elder,    115,    218, 

339,  533,  545. 

Carrewe.     See  Carreu,  Carew. 

Carrickfergus,  Cragfergus  [co.  An- 
trim], Ireland,  ship  of,  11. 

Carru.     See  Carreu. 

Carshalton,  Carsalton  Karsalton.  co. 
Surrey,    74,    339. 

,  deed  dated  at,  74. 

,  manor  of,  74. 

Carter,  John,  510. 

,  Nicholas,  530. 

,  Richard,  534. 

Cary,  William,  of  Devon,  238. 

Caserelye,  George,   363. 

Cashol,  Cassel  [co.  Tipperary,  Ire- 
land], archbishop  of.  See 
Torrington,   Philip  de. 

,  province  of,  482. 

Castel,  Adam  del,  289. 

Castelacre,  Castellacre,  Elizabeth 
wife  of  William  de,  69. 

,  William,     William    de,     69, 

110,360. 

Castelford,  John,  66,  67. 

William,  clerk,  67. 


Castellacre.     See  Castelacre. 

Castelryng.     <S'ee  Castlering. 

Casterton,  Castirtan  [in  Kirkby 
Lonsdale],  co.  Westmoreland, 
manor  of,  144. 

Little,  Little  Castirton  [co. 

Rutland  |.  parson  of.  See 
Apethorp,   Philip  de. 

See   Castletown. 

Castile,  254. 

king  of.     See  Henry,  John, 

Peter. 

Castirton.     Sec  Casterton. 

Castle  Aahby.     See  Ashby. 

Castlering,  Castelryng  [in  Louth,  CO. 
LouthJ,  Ireland,  manor  of, 
238,  239,  243. 

Castletown,  Casterton  in  Fohord  [in 
Cam,  co.  Wexford],  Ireland, 
387. 

Castor,  Castre  [co,  Northampton], 
parson  of.  See  Leycestre, 
Richard  de. 

Castre,  Bartholomew  de.    Kii'. 

Simon  de,  clerk,  472.  516. 

Catalonia.  Cateloi^ne.  Catelonia. 
Catidoigne  [Spain],  men  of, 
218. 

merchants  of,  40,  231,  291, 

329. 

,  at  Bruges.  1 96. 

,  ships  of,    31,    42,    1 86.   2 IS, 

231. 

Cateby,  John,  534. 

Gf.  Catesby. 

Cateloigne,  Catelonia.  See  Cata- 
lonia. 

Caterton,  Katerton,  Thomas  de,  85, 
315,  318,  364,  439. 

Catesby,  John  de,  335. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Coventry,  474. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  of  the  statutes  of  Win- 
chester, Northampton  and 
Wrestminstor  in  Coventry,  341. 

, of  Warwickshire,  435. 

,  William  de,  guardian  of  the 

peaco  and  justice  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in   Coventry,    55. 

Cf.  Cateby. 

Catewy,  Joan  wife  of  Thomas,  217. 

,  Thomas,  of  Berkshire  216, 

217. 

Catherlagh.     See  Carlow. 

Catley,  Cattele  [in  Billingliay,  co. 
Lincoln],  prior  and  canons 
of,  95. 

Caton,  William  de,  500. 


GENERAL     IN'IMA 


-cont. 

.     <t.  Cayton. 
ur,  Nicholas,  143. 

\\  illiam,  of  [leading,  256. 

Catteli       Sa§( 

Catterall  [in  Garatang]  1  Ketelfeld, 
ro.  I  am  aster,  fee  in.  600. 

Catterick,  oo  York,  Killerby,  Byl- 
w  ardley  in,  l 

Catteworth.     >><    Catworth, 

.  attle,  then  of,  221. 

wayf,  181 

1    tuloigno      S      Catalonia. 

Catworth,  Catteworth,  <<>.  Bunting- 
don,  230. 

fee  in,  -\. 

Cauchoun,  John,  parson  of  Thornton 
in  Lonsdale,  266. 

Cauele,  Philip,  of  Meldreth,  clerk, 
364,  360. 

CaueQ,  Thomas,   1!)'.'. 

Caugh,  Senghennyd  above  and  below 
[in  hundred  of  Caerphilly,  co. 
Glamorgan],  300. 

Caumfer.     Set  Kamper. 

( Saum]  eden.     See  Camped  en. 

Caunbrigge.     See   Cauntehregge. 

Caundel.     See  Canndle. 

Caundich.     See  Cavendish. 

Caundle,  Caundel  [co.  Dorset],  542. 

Caundych.     See  Cavendish. 

Cauntebregge.  Caunbrigge.  Jolm,  of 
Great  Dunmow.   224,    514. 

Cauntebrigge.     See  Cambridge. 

Cauntelo.     See   Marlebergh. 

Cauntelowe.     See  Cantilupo. 

Caunterburv,  Agnes  wife  of  John  de, 
531. 

,  John  Coccowe  called  de,  cord- 

wainer  of  London,  531. 

Caunton,  Edmund  son  of  Gerald, 
303. 

,  Gerard    son    of    Raymond, 

303. 

,  William,  300. 

Caunwill,  Thomas,  247. 

Caupenne,  Caupene  [France,  dep. 
Landes],  lord  of,  2,  114. 

Caus,  Thomas,  Thomas  le,  of  Hock- 
ham,  246,  247. 

Causer,  John,  216. 

Causton,  Hugh,  325. 

Cave,  Peter  de,  clerk,  of  Lincoln- 
shire, 443. 

,  William,  of  Normanby,  444. 

Cf.  Save. 

Cavendish,  Caundich,  Caundych, 
Cavendissh,  Cavendyssh,  An- 
drew de,  knight  of  the  shire  of 
Suffolk,  537. 


( '.i\  endish—  oont, 

rohn  de,  John,  36,  220,  229, 

•_>3-_>.  360,  516. 

ohief   justice.    9,    10, 

249,  288,  344,  467. 

guardian  <»i  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Coventry,  55. 

justice.   259. 

....  in  ovro  in  Kent, 

80,  81. 

, of    gaol    delivery 

at  Colchester,   136. 

at  Nor- 
wich, 211. 

to  hold  pleas  be- 
fore the  king.  4,  30,  131,  151, 
260,  261,  312,  316,  317,  319, 
321,  374.  387.  401,  496,  505, 
523,  532.  543,  544. 

to    preserve    the 

peace  in  the  parts  of  Holland 
in  Lincolnshire,  22. 

,    .  .  .  .,    knight,      332,      341, 

461. 

Caxton,  co.  Cambridge,  manor  of, 
343. 

Caynel,  Christina,  214. 

Cayner,  William,  433. 

Caynowe.  John,  274,  278. 

Cayton,  Reyna  wife  of  Robert  de, 
249,  250. 

Robert  de,  249,  250. 

Cf.  Caton. 

Celer,  Selere,  John  atte,  171. 

,  Lora  wife  of    Robert   atte, 

541. 

,  Richard    atte,    of    London, 

281,  329. 

,  Robert  atte,  527,  541. 

Cemaes,  Kemoys  [co.  Pembroke], 
liberty  of,  547. 

,  lords      of.        See      Audele, 

Nicholas         de ;  Martyn, 

William. 

,  lordship  of,  386,  540. 

Cerne,  Edward,  knight,  459. 

Cestre.     See  Chester. 

Chacombe  [co.  Northampton],  prior 
and  convent  of,  219. 

Chaddesden,  Geoffrey  de,  68,  90. 

,  . .  . . ,  rector  of  Long  What- 

ton,  72. 

,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  68. 

, ,  clerk,  72,  538. 

Chaddeslee,  Cheddesley,  Richard, 
Richard  de,    73. 

,  . . . . ,  clerk,  receiver  of  the 

treasure  of  the  earl  of  Salis- 
bury, 255. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


1,1  m 


Chaddeslev   Corbet,    co.  Worcester, 
fee' in.   307,  308. 

parson  of.     See  Bromhulle, 

Richard  de. 

Winterfold.    Wvnterfold   in, 

383. 
Chaddock,     Chaydok    in    Tyldesley 

[co.   Lancaster],   257. 
Chadirton.  Henry  de,  bailiff  of  West 

Derby  hundred,   112. 
Chadlington.    Chadlynton,    co.    Ox- 
ford, hundred  of.  306. 
Gladstone      [in      Castle      Ashby]  ? 
Starston,    co.    Xorthanipton, 

fee  in.  1 89. 
Chadwell,  Chakhvell,  co.  Essex,  fee 

in.  24. 
Chaindos.     See    Chandos. 
Chaldebourne.     See    Shalbourn. 
Chakhvell.     See  Chadwell. 
Chalfhunt,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas, 

483. 

,  Henry  do,  559. 

Maud  wife  of  Henry  do,  559. 

,  Thomas,  483. 

Chalghdon.     ^ee  Charlton. 
Challock,  Chellocc  [co.  Kent  J.  Otter- 

pley,  Oterplaye  in.  98. 
f'lialoner,  William,  of  London,  93. 
Chalouns,  Robert,  331,   332. 
Chalreye.     See  Childrey. 
Chamberlay,    William,    verdorer    of 

Savernake  forest,  167. 
Chamberleyn,  Chambirleyn,  Chaum- 

berlayn.  Chaumberleyn,  John, 

542. 

■  ^ ,  .  .  .  .,  clerk,  549. 

,  ....  son  of  Ralph,  of  Rears- 

by,  518. 

,  Ralph,  519. 

grandfather   of    John, 

519. 

Richard,  191,  192. 

Robert,  96. 

,  Thomas,  86. 

,  . . . . ,  of  Heyshott,  88. 

,  William,    23. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,   165. 

Chambirlains.     See  Beeches. 
Chambirleyn.     See  Camberleyn. 
Chambre,      Chaumber,      Chaumbre, 

Chaunbre,    Agnes    (de    Ben- 

tham)  sister  of  Alice  atte,  29. 
Alice  atte,  of  Weston  under 

Edge,  29. 

,  Edmund  de  la,  228. 

,  Joan  mother  of  Edmund  de 

la,  228. 
,  ....   wife  of  Gilbert  de  la, 

155,  157. 


Chambre — cont. 

John  del.  John.  499. 

, of  Hudnall,  560. 

Katherine    sister    of     Alice 

atte,  29. 

Margery    (do    .Solers)    sister 

of  Alice  atte,  2'.). 

,  Kobert    de    la,    of    Fenton, 

560. 

,  Roger  atte.  289. 

, knight,  281. 

,  Sibyl  (Pope)  sister  of   Alice 

atte.  29. 

Thomas  del,  burgess  of  New- 
castle upon  Tyne  in  parlia- 
ment, 537. 

Cf.  Camera. 

Champagne,  Champaigne  [France], 
254. 

Champaigne,  Jolm.  191,  192. 

Cf.  Campana,  Chaumpeyn. 

Champaneys.     See  Chaumpeneys. 

Champernoun,  Chaumbemoun,  Rich- 
ard, lord  of  Aston  Rowant, 
539. 

Thomas,  eseheator  in  Devon, 

292. 
chancellor,     the.       See    Houghton, 
Adam  de  ;   Knyvet,  John. 

of  Ireland.     See  Ireland. 

chancery,  2.  29.  39,  49.  51,  59,  63, 
66-72.  75,  78,  8(1.  82.  84,  88, 
90,  93-96,  99-101.  113,  114, 
119,  127,  128,  133,  134,  139, 
143,  145,  146,  150,  152,  161, 
172,  177,  178,  186,  199,  204, 
207-212,  216-218,  222,  226, 
230,  231,  233,  235,  241,  242, 
245,  247,  248,  251,  252,  255, 
256,  258,  261,  269,  274,  276, 
278,  280-285,  288,  289.  294, 
296-300,  302,  304,  309,  313, 
315,  319,  320,  324,  326,  327, 
329,  332-339,  341,  342,  345- 
347,  350,  352,  353,  358,  359, 
361-365,  369,  374,  380,  385, 
387,  397,  398,  412,  414,  415, 
419,  424,  431-433,  435-442, 
444-446,  460,  462,  463,  465, 
466,  468,  471,  473,  480,  486, 
495,  498,  502,  504,  507,  511, 
517,  523-528,  530,  533,  534, 
540-548,   552-556. 

,  cause,  plea,  process,  suit  in, 

18,  47,  99,  145,  175,  176,  230, 
285,  401. 
,  clerk  dwelling  in.     See  Walt- 
ham,  John  de. 

,  ....  of     tho     hanapor     of. 

See  Ravenser,  Richard  de. 


GENERAL  INDKX. 


chancery — e 

olerka  of.    8m   1 1  ilton,  John 

ill-  ;    Newenham.  Thomas  de  : 
I'.ii  i  \  Dgton,  John  de ;  II. i\  i  a 
.    Richard  «!«•• 

cognizance     of     pleas 

concerning,  2,  36 

sports  of,  210,  211. 

deedfl  acknowledged  in,  61, 

77.  94,  87,  1"".  101,  103,  1  L6, 
L95,  206,  207,  212,  216,  217, 
223.  230,  237,  248,  260,  265, 
256,  259,  271,  281,  323,  334, 
339  341,  360,  424,  435,  146, 
149,  459,  460,  168  512,  516, 
531,  538 

documents  cancelled  or  re- 
voked in.  •_'.  14,  <*■">.  L29,  Kin. 
L61,  166,  310,  392,  109,  134, 
is.".. 

enrolments   in.     12,    25,    28, 

32,  45,  46,  50,  53,  55,  12o, 
124,  I  12,  156,  159,  168,  1 7.">- 
177.  lsi.  lss.  227.  24.5,  267, 
•27<i.  292,  304,  3u!>.  318,  319, 
321,  369,  371,  373,  :i74,  391, 
393,  401,  419,  426,  454,  481, 
492,  4U4.  498,   504,   546,  547. 

estreats  of, 

files  of,  223,  229,  237,  332, 

426,  436,  ."H'4.  511,  .316. 

great    hall   in   court   of,   at 

W  eatminater,    546. 

hanaperof.  33,  211,  268,  387. 

keepers     of.        See 

Ravenser,  Richard  de ; 
Thoresby,  Richard  de. 

,  inn  of,  expenses  of,  9. 

,  judgement  of  court  of,  490. 

,  matters  certified  in,  1,  6,  11, 

Hi.  18,  19,  26,  27,  35,  43,  53, 
57,  58,  60,  61,  65,  103,  120, 
123,  126,  129,  132,  134,  136, 
139,  140,  149,  150,  171,  263, 
279,  281,  295,  301,  303,  304, 
309,  310,  313,  334,  348,  363, 
376,  382,  383,  388,  389,  391, 
398,  399,  416,  417,  442,  443, 
463,  469,  478,  482,  483,  485, 
486,  489,  492,  498,  503,  506, 
526,  535,  543,  552. 

,  partition  in,   322. 

.recognisances    in,    88,    114, 

227,  326,  364,  438,  453,  458, 
541,  548. 

.rolls  of,  7,26,  58,  152. 

,  .  .  . .,  keeper  of.      See  Bur- 
stall,  William  de. 

,  the  king's  sergeant  at  law  in, 

39. 


chancery-   oonL 

w  rita    for    taking    exoom 

munioated  |  ersons  m  I  reland 

not  to  proceed  from  English, 

182. 

Sri  also  Ireland,  Pembroke. 

Chancton,  '  !haungetOQ  |  in  \\  ashinj 

ton],   <<>.    Sussex,   manor  of, 

870. 
Chandos,  Chaindoe,  Chaundoa,  John, 

530. 
,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  524. 

Lllc\  .     .">.')0. 

wife  of  Thomas,   164. 

,  Roger,  164. 

, of  Herefordshire,  426. 

Thomas,  clerk,  530. 

knight,  3,  4,  112,  164. 

chantries,  destruction  of,  401,  402. 

diminution  of,  150. 

lapse  of,   53. 

Sd    also   Berwick,   Byker, 

Corbridge,  ('rich.  Dagnall, 
J  )undraw,  Orange,  Greenwich, 
Haddlesey,  Halse,  Islekirk, 
Layer  Marny,  Lazenby,  Man- 
ton,  Middleton,  Ness,  New- 
ton, RaYeningham,  St.  Bees, 
Shaftoe,  York. 

Chapman,    Geoffrey,    610. 

,  J Aike,  of  Abingdon,    350. 

Chareman.     See    Charman. 

Charfield,  Charfeld  [co.  Gloucester], 
327. 

Chark  s  V,  king  of  France,  the 
king's  adversary,  317. 

,  truce  with,  417. 

Cliarles,    Richard,    332. 

Charleton,  Cherleton,  Cherlton,  Joan 
wife  of  John  de,  of  Powis,  50. 

,  . . . . ,  .  .  .  . ,    assignment     of 

dower  to,  123,  124. 

,  John,  John  de,  116,  364. 

, ,  of    Middlesex,    107. 

, ,of  Powis,  487. 

, ,  knight,  50. 

,  Richard,  542. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  61. 

,  Thomas,  364. 

,  .  . . . ,  of  Middlesex,  443. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,   107- 

109,  198. 

Charlton,  Cherleton,  co.  Berks,  115. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  115. 

,  . . .  . ,  Tulwick,  Tullewyk  in, 

115. 

,  Chalghdon,  co.  Hants,  manor 

of,  378. 

Charman,  Chareman,  John,  71. 

, ,  of  Rickling,   259. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


605 


Charman — cont. 

Cf.  Cherman. 

Charnak,  Adam,  540. 

Cf.  Cliernok. 

Charnels.     See   Camelles. 
Charney,  John,  67. 
Charrer,    Stephen,    524. 
Chart,  Chert  [co.  Kent],  217. 
charters,  cancellation  of,  136,  137. 
Chartley,    Cherteleye,    co.    Stafford. 

manor  of,  414. 
Charwelton.  co.  Northampton.   544. 
Charwelton,  William.  367. 
Chastillon,    Chasteloun,    Chastiloun, 

John,  190,  521,  550. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John,  521. 

Walter,   prisoner,   316. 

Chastleyn,  Hugh,  knight,  281. 
Chatham   [in   Great  Waltham],    co. 

Essex,  fee  in,  22. 
,  Chetham.  co.  Kent,  206,  219. 

280. 
Chaufcire,   Adam,   of  Essex,   523. 
Chaumber.     See  Chambre. 
Chanmberlayn.  Chaumberleyn.     See 

Chamberleyn. 
Chaumbernoun.      See  Champernoun. 
Chaumbre.     See  Cliambre. 
Chauinpenevs,  Champaneys,  Gilbert, 

200.* 

Richard,  495,  ^>5r>. 

Chaumpeyn,  Robert,  saddler,  281. 

Cf.  Campana,  Champaigne. 

Chaunbre.  See  Cliambre. 
Chaunceux,  John,  knight,  289. 

,  Thomas,  461. 

Chaundeler,  Thomas,  243. 
Chaundos.  See  Chandos. 
Chaimgeour,   Adam,   206. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  1 95. 

Chaungeton.     See  Chancton. 
Chauntecler,  Thomas,  246. 
Chaunterel,  Christiana,  288. 

Sibyl,  288. 

Chaydok.  See  Chaddock. 
Chebsey,    Chebbeseye,    co.    Stafford, 

manor  of,  122. 
Cheddesley.     See   Chaddeslee. 
Cheddre,  Robert,  307. 
Chedmenden,    Simon,    of    Smarden, 

87. 
Chedyngston.     See  Chiddingstone. 
cheese,  441,  442. 
Chehungre.      See   Olelionger. 
Chelchetli.    Chelchhethe,    Chelchith. 

See  Chelsea. 
Cheleworth.     See  Chelworth. 
Cheliton.     See  Chillington. 
Chellesfeld.     See  Chelsfield. 
Chellocc.     See  Challock. 


Chelmsford,  Chelmesford,  co.  Essex, 

sheriff's  turn  at,  362. 
Chelreye.     See  Childrev. 
Chelreye,  Joan  wife  of  Edmund  de, 

the  younger,  212. 

,  John  de,  clerk,  251. 

,  Margaret,    115. 

Thomas,    Thomas    de,    212, 

471. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Berkshire,  212. 

Chelsea,      Chelchetli,      Chelchhethe, 

Chelchith  [co.  Middlesex],  256, 

270. 

deed  dated  at.  270. 

Chelsfield,     Chellesfeld,     co.     Kent, 

manor  of,  1 86. 
Chelvy,  co.  Somerset,  Midgal.  Mil'lihI 

in.  307. 
Chelwordiswode,  Agnes,  397. 
Chelworth.  Cheleworth  [in  Cricklade]. 

co.  Wilts,  501. 

manor  of,  501. 

Chepstow.      Chepestow  e,      Cheppes- 

towe.      Chippestowe,      Strug- 

huvll,     Sturguyll     [co.     Mon- 
mouth]. 135,  448. 
castle  and  lordship  of,   135. 

448. 
lady  of.     See  Marshall,  Mar- 
garet. 
Chepyngtoriton.     See    Torrington. 
Cherche.     See  Churche. 
Cherdestoke,    Edward,   Edward   de, 

clerk,  77.  82,  83,  110,  32Q. 
Cherleton,  Cherlton.     See  Charleton, 

Charlton. 
Cherman.  Ralph,  272. 

Cf.  Channan,  Sherman. 

Cliernok,  John  de.  14. 

Cf.  Charnak. 

Cherrington,  Cheryngton,  co.  Salop, 

310. 
Chert,     See  Chart. 
( 'licit,  John  atte,  of  Surrey,  273. 
Cherteleye.     See    Chartley. 
Chertesey,  John  de,   185. 
Chertsey,    Cherteseye,     co.    Surrey, 

274. 
Steventon  End,  Stevyngton 

in.  274. 
Chervyle,    Thomas,    chaplain,    199, 

240. 
Cheryngton.     See    Cherrington. 
Cheselhampton,    Adam,   coroner   of 

Oxfordshire,  477. 
Cheseman.  Adam.  1  !■">. 

John.  5.31 . 

Chesham,    Thomas,    car]  inter,    of 

London.  349,  360. 
Chesillord.     See  Chillesford. 


806 


GENERAL     LNDEX. 


lestee  [co.  Cheater],  oham- 

lx-rlain     of.      »"»'<  -      \\  imIcIm  his. 

n. 

oouii  of,  custom  of  ■  a\  oerie  ' 

in.  418. 

fee  faun  of,  407. 

honour  of,   409. 

justices   of,    407,  41 B,   568. 

I  elton,  Thomas  tit* : 

Pole,  John  de  la. 
Ch.  Costa       ounty  of,  253,  420, 

421. 
earl  of.    Sir  Edward  prince 

of    W  nlcs :     Richard    prince 

of  Walt        Scot,  John  Le. 
Chesterfeld,  Cheetirfeld,  Cheetrefeld, 

Adam  de,  king's  clerk,  7<>. 

Tolm.  472. 

Richard    de,    Richard,    68, 

472. 
canon  of  the  collegiate 

church  of  St.  John,  Beverley, 

520. 

clerk,  72. 

Chesterfield,  Cheetrefeld  [co.  Derby], 

deed  dated  at.  225. 

Walton  in.  220. 

Chesterford     [Little?].     Chestreford 

[co.  Essex],  Ralph  parson  of, 

343. 

Cheetirfeld.     See   Cheeterfeld. 
Cheetrefeld.  See  Chesterf eld,  Chester- 
field. 
Chestreford.     See  Chesterford. 
Cheswardine,  Cheswardyn  [co.  Salop], 

Lestrange  of,   .'i  1 4 . 

,  manor  of,    .'378. 

Chetewynd,  Chetwynde,  William  de, 

knight,  4.S0.' 

,  of  Calvinpton.  526. 

knight  of   the 

shire  of  Salop,  536. 
Chetham.     See  Chatham. 
Chetwynde.     See  Chetewynd. 
Cheveley,  Chevelee,  co.  Cambridge, 

108,  201. 

,  advowson  of,  108,  201 . 

manor  of,  108,  201. 

ChevereU,  Chiverel,  Great,  co.  Wilts, 

manor  of,  1 32. 
Chewstoke,  Bicheuestoke,  co.  Somer- 

t.  fee  in,  307. 
Chewton    Mendip,    Chyweton,    co. 

Somerset,   church   of,   farmer 

of.     See     Shepton,     Thomas. 

tenths  of,  106. 

Cheyne,    Cheygny,    Chevny,    Alan, 

knight,  271. 
Edmund,        escheator       in 

Somerset,  40. 


Chevne — eont 
....'...  Hugh,  257. 

lolm.    17s.  233. 

canon  of  Exeter,  401, 

402. 

of  Salisbury,  1 82. 

Margarel  wife  of  John,  178, 

283. 

Ralph    de,    Ralph,    knight, 

323,  362.  367. 

Roger,  57. 

Thomas,    knight.   228,    271, 

397. 

William,    escheator,    263. 

in  Somerset,  40. 

knight,  62,  206. 

Chichester,  Cicestre  [co.  Sussex], 
bishop  of.  See  Reade, 
William. 

canon  of.     See  Chirchehull, 

William  de. 

Canon    Lane,    the    Canons' 

street   in,    302. 

mavor  and   bailiffs  of,   365. 

port  of,  21,  49,  50. 

collectors    of    customs 

and    subsidies  in.  21,   49,   51, 
170,  365. 
Chichestre,  Roger,  bailiff  of  Oxford, 
158. 

,    coroner    of    Oxford, 

158. 
Chiddingstone,    Chedyngston,    Chid- 
vngstone,  Chydyngstono,    co. 
Kent,  107,  201. 

parson  of.     See  Okebourne, 

John. 
Chidiok,    Chidvok,    John,    John  de, 
knight,  229. 

, ,  the  elder,   66. 

Chidyngstone.     See     Chiddingstone. 
Chidyok.     See  Chidiok. 
Chigenhale.     See  Chignall. 
Chigewell.     See  Chigvvell. 
Chignall  St.  James,  Chigenhale  Tany, 
co.  Essex,  fee  in,  23. 

Smealy,  Chigenhale,  Chiken- 

hale   Trenchefoil,    co.    Essex, 
fees  in,  23. 
Chigwell,  Chigewell,  co.  Essex,  441. 
Chike,  William,  226. 
Chikenhale.     See  Chignall. 
Child,  Stephen,  75. 
Childernelangele.     See  Langley. 
Childrey,     Chalreye,     Chelreye     [co. 
Berks],    William    parson    of, 
148.      See     also     Shiltewode, 
William  de. 
Chilham,  co.Kent,  Eaststour,  Estoure 
in,  98. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


607 


Chillesford,   Chesilford,   co.    Suffolk, 

advowson  of,  305. 
Chillington,    Cheliton,    Cliilton,    co. 

Somerset,  40. 
Chiltenham,  William  de,  justice  of 

the   peace   and   of   oyer  and 

terminer  in  Worcestershire,  73. 
Cliilton    Foliat,    Folyot,    co.    Wilts, 

deed  dated  at,  349. 

See  Chillington. 

Chilton,    Robert  de,   chaplain,    446, 

447,  531. 
Chippenham,  co.  Wilts,  lady  of.    See 

Gascelyn.  Elizabeth. 

,  fair  and  market  at,   1 85. 

,  manor  of,  1 30. 

,  men  of,    1 84. 

,  repair  of  bridge  at,    1 85. 

Sheldon,  Shulden  in.  130. 

Chippenham,  Walter,  Walter  de,  182. 
....,     lieutenant     of     the 

Tower  of  London,  224. 
Chippes.    Roger,    yeoman    usher    of 

the  king's  wardrobe,  364. 
Chippestowe.     See   Chepstow. 
Chirbury.  co.  Salop,  Dudston.  Pod- 

eston  in,  123. 
Chirchegate.  John.  366. 
Chirchehull,    William   de,    canon   of 

Chichester,    guardian    of    the 

temporalities  of  the  bishopric 

of  Worcester,    302. 

clerk,    411. 

Chircheman.     See  Churcheman. 
Chiseldon,      co.      Wilts,      Badbuiv. 

Baddebury  in.  534. 
Chisenhale,  Chysenhale,  Robert,  73. 
,  burgess    of    Guildford 

in  parliament,  537. 
Chishall  Magna,  Great  Chishull  [co. 

Essex].  358. 

,  deed  dated  at,   358. 

Cardons  in.  24. 

Chishull.     See  Chishall,  Chrishall. 
Chisilden.    Chuselden,    William    de, 

William,  527.  52 S.  540. 
Chitterne,  John,  clerk,  463. 
Chivaler.  William,  of  Kent.  212. 
Chiverel.     See    CI  everell. 
Chokes,  honour  of,  315. 
Cholchestre.      See  Colchester. 
Choleghaune.  See    Coolcmheen. 
Chorlegh,  William  de,  escheator  in 

Lancashire,  31. 
Chrishall,    Chishull,   Cristeshale.    co. 

Essex,  24.  358. 
Christians,    defence   of,    at   Rhodes. 

297. 
Christleton.   Cristleton,    CO.    Chester, 

manor  of,  331. 


Church  Jerpoint.     See  Jerpoint. 

Rnowle.     See  Know  le. 

church,  crenellation  of,  11. 

forswearing  of  felons  in,  386. 

Churche,  Cherche.  Robert  atte,  225. 

,  Simon  atte,  73. 

Churcheman,      Chircheman,      John, 

117. 

, of  London,  470. 

Chuselden.     See  Chisilden. 
Chute,  Chuyt  forest,    co.  Southamp- 
ton, election  of  verderers  of, 

186,  409. 
Chydicroft,  Chydecroft.  Chydycroft, 

John,  109,  112.201. 
Chydyngstone.     See    Chiddingstone. 
Chynner,  Chynnore,  John,  265.  332. 

,  .....  of  London,  461. 

Chypstede,  John,  brewer,  of  London, 

216. 
Chysenhale.     See  Chisenhale. 
Chyweton.     See  Chewton. 
Cicestre.     See  Chichester. 
Cifrewast.       Cyfrewast.       Sifrewast, 

Svffrewas.  John,  knight.  270. 

Walter.    289. 

escheator    in     Dorset. 

129,  132.   141.   143.   147.   152, 

156,  167.  184. 
, in  Somerset,   120, 

129,  147.   159.  167.  184.  291. 
Cinque    Ports,    the,    liberty    of.    31. 

129. 

men  of.  296. 

summons   to   parliament  of 

barons  of,  407. 
warden    of.      See    Edmund 

earl  of  Cambridge  ;    Latimer, 

William. 
Cireourt,     Southcote      [in      Pench- 

worth],  co.  Berks,  manor  of. 

61. 
Clandon,    West.    Westclendon    [co. 

Surrey],  288. 
Claneford.  Walter,   366. 
Clapeham,  William  de.  500. 
Claphowe.     Set     Wapley. 
Clapton    in   Gordano,    Clopton,    >•< 

Somerset,  fee  in.  307. 
Clare,  .John,  coroner  of  co.  \\  orcester, 

48. 

Thomas  de.  436. 

Cf.  Clere. 

Clareburgh,    Richard  de,   parson  of 

Ibstock,  231. 
Clarence,  duke  of.      See  Lionel. 
Clarendon,    Claryndon    [co.     Wilts], 

foresi  of,  election  of  verderers 

of.    16,    119. 
letters  close  dated  at,  561 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


|      .'viulon— OOlll 

manor  of,  27. 

repair  of.  1 4 1 

park,  venders  oi  underwood 

in.     >.  -  Justice,  John  :  Loke- 

haiin.  John. 

datford,  Ralph  df.  verderer  oi  Chute 
forest,  i^" 

Claver,  Rol  art,  206,  219. 

cia\  ering,  oo.  Essex,  455. 

Claveryng,   Robert,  knight,  ."!.'!7. 

Clay,  Agnes  wife  ol  Thomas  de,  441. 
Edmund  de,  del,  631,  ."i.v_>. 

of  Finningley,  77. 

rohn  del,  clerk,  l <»i*. 

Claydon,  Bast,  Eatclaydon,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, 148 

manor  of,  148.  149'. 

parson  of.     S<  >  Otry- 

liiun.  Peter  de. 

Claye.     Set  Cley. 

Claymond,  Thomas,  7:>. 

Claypole,  Richard  de.  259. 

Clay-.  Tankard  fit/.,  of  Sluys,  21. 

Clayton,  la  Cleye  [in    Washington], 
co.  Sussex.  370. 
jc  John,  248,  252. 

Clehonger,  Chehungre  [co.  Hereford]. 
manor  of,  350. 

Clement  VII.     Set   Geneva,   Robert 
of. 

Clement.  Adam  father  of  John,  367. 

John,   citizen   of   Rochester, 

:;c,t;.    367. 

Richard,  of  Leake,  B7. 

Clenchwarton,     co.     Norfolk,     Mar- 
garet ta  House,  Maydenhouse 

ill.  :.os. 

Clerc.     See  Clerk. 

Clere.     See  Highclere,  Kingsclere. 

Clere,  John,  of  Alderton,  208. 

,  William,  220,  232. 

Cf.  Clare. 

clergy  : 

alien  incumbents,  65. 

arrest  of  recusant,  37. 

benefit  of,  39,  320,  387. 

convocation  of,  347,  469. 

contumacious,   37,   105. 

discipline  of,  200. 

regulation  of  tenure  of  lands  by, 
I'd,  402. 

royal   requests   for   prayers   of, 
96,  224. 

taxation  of,   38,   105,   128,  348. 
Clerk,    Clerc,    Adam,    of   Dunscroft, 
424. 

,  Joan  daughter  of  Joan,  424. 

of  John,  of  Rod- 

ing,  3. 


( 'ink.  Joan-   oonf, 

wiii'  <'i   Adam,  424. 

John,   246,   247,    312,    820, 

183,  534. 

of  Culdecott,  88. 

of    Chart,    217. 

of  Loudon,  s'.i. 

haw  rence,  of  I  >o\\  oham,  212. 

Nicholas   s:t.    165. 

Peter,  of  Hedon,  346. 

Ralph,  of  Trelegen,  79. 

Richard,  ol  Acton.  109. 

Simon,  of  Carlisle,  coroner  of 

Cumberland.    50. 

Thcmas.   of  Hereford,    522. 

Walter.   83. 

William,  of  Dartmouth,  41. 

Clevedon,   Clyvedon,   co.    Somerset, 

fee  in.':io7 
Cleveley,  Cliflegh  fin  Garstang],  co. 

Lancaster,  ice  in.  500. 
('ley.  Claye  [co,  Norfolk],    colleetors 

of  subsidy  in  port  of,  30. 

fishers  of.   30. 

( 'leye,  la.      Set   <  'lay ton. 

Cliffe.  King's,  Clyve,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, manor  of,  309. 

Clifford,  co.  York,  manor  of,  452, 
454. 

Clifford,  Clyfford,  John  de,  John, 
clerk,  182. 

, treasurer  of  St.  Peter's 

church,  York,   391. 

Lewis  de,  443. 

Robert  son  of  Robert  de,  411. 

,  Roger,  Roger  de,  17.~>. 

.  brother  of   Robert  de, 

411. 

,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  West  Riding  of  York- 
shire. 554. 

,  knight,  374,  527. 

, lordde,  268. 

,  .....  lord  of  Westmoreland, 

527. 

Cliflegh.     See  Cleveley. 

Clifton,  co.  Gloucester,  fee  in,  307, 
308. 

,  Clyfton,  Clyfton  in  Amond- 

renes  [in  Kirkham],  co.  Lan- 
caster, deed  dated  at,  197, 
365. 

,  ...'.,  manor  of,  197,  365. 

,     North,     Northclifton,     co. 

Nottingham,  396,  397. 

Reynes,  Clyfton,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, fee  in,  191,  192. 

Clifton,  Clyfton,  Adam  de,  47. 

,  Gervase  de,   knight,    178. 

,  John  de,  551,  552. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


609 


Clifton,  John — cont. 

,  ....   son  of  Constantino  de, 

47. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  Constan- 
tino de,  47. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  of  Lan- 
cashire, 197,  365. 

,  Thomas  de,  512. 

,  Walter  de,  abbot  of  Warden, 

513,  531. 

,  William  de,  clerk,  90. 

Clinton,  Clynton,  John  de,  55,  341. 

,  . .  .  . ,  baron,  52. 

,  . .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Warwickshire,  474. 

,  Juliana  de,  countess  of  Hunt- 
ingdon, 371. 

,  William  de,   287. 

Clipston,  Henry  de,  burgess  of 
Leicester  in  parliament,  430. 

Clisse.     See  Quest. 

Cloford,  Clovorde  [co.  Somerset],  323. 

Clonmel,  Clonmell  [cos.  Waterford 
and  Tipperary],  Ireland, 
market  at,  382. 

,  sovereign  and  burgesses  of, 

382. 

Clopton,  co.  Suffolk,  advowson  of, 
305. 

,  manor  of,   305. 

See    Clapton. 

Clopton,  Avice  Pevere  wife  of 
William  de,  76,  78. 

Edith  wife  of  Walter,  109. 

,  John  de,  78,  438. 

,  Richard  de,   471. 

.Walter,  Walter  de,  61,   73, 

74,  109-111,  243,  512,  531. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of    Dorset,    88. 

,  William,  William  de,  78,  79. 

,  . . .  .,  of  Somerset,  238. 

cloth,  54,  57,  61,  120,  149,  480,  482, 
556. 

,  alnager  of,  in  Coventry  and 

Warwickshire.  See  Ray, 
John. 

kinds  of,  named,  104. 

,  long,  of  colour,  49. 

of  kersey,  42,  441,  442. 

of  worsted,  42. 

,  regulation  of  sale  of,  42,  205, 

368,  522. 

,  rent  of,  86. 

,  striped,  42,  383. 

,  subsidy  on,  42. 

, ,  lease  of,  104,  105,  205, 

368,  522. 

Clothall,  Clothale,  co.  Hertford, 
manor  of,  453,  455. 

Wt.  11824. 


Clovorde.     See  Cloford. 

Clune,  Roger  de,  clerk,  375. 

Clyfford.     See  Clifford. 

Clyfton.     See  Clifton. 

Clynton.     See  Clinton. 

Clysse.     See  Quest. 

Clysse,   Edmund   del,   of   Dunwich, 

519 
Clyve.     See  Cliffe. 
Clyve,  John,  472. 
Clyvedon.     See  Clevedon. 
Clyvedon,  Alice  wife  of  Edmund  de, 
303. 

,  Edmund  de,  307. 

,  Matthew  de,  307. 

,  Richard  son  of  Matthew  de, 

228,  229. 
Coat,  Cote  [in  Martock,  co.  Somer- 
set], 80,  87. 
Coates,    Great,    Cotes,    co.    Lincoln, 

fee  in,  162. 
Coatham,   Cotom,   co.  Nottingham, 
531. 

,  North,  Cotom,  Northcotom, 

co.  Nottingham,  56,  134. 
Cobham,  co.  Kent,  lord  of.     See  Cob- 
ham,  John  de. 

,  Coveham,  co.  Surrey,  61. 

Cobham,  Cobeham,  Elizabeth  wife  of 
Reynold  de,  knight,  395,  396, 
414. 

,  John  de,  knight,  327. 

,  . . . . ,  . . . . ,  lord  of  Cobham, 

207,  270,  273,  332,  456. 

,  Reynold  de,  clerk,  533. 

, ,  knight,  109. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  knight, 

327,  333. 

,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Kent,  429. 

, ,  of  Essex,  363. 

,  William  de,  knight,  109, 112, 

201. 
Cobynton,  Henry  de,  141. 
Coccowe,  Agnes  wife  of  John,  531. 

,  John,  called  de  Caunterbury, 

cordwainer,  of  London,  531. 
Coche,  William,  100. 
Cockerham,     co.     Lancaster,    Ellel, 

Ellale  in,  500. 
Cockes,   John,   parson  of   Compton 

Pauncefoot,  62. 
Cockfield,  Cokefeld  [co.  Suffolk],  356. 

,  manor  of,   305. 

Cockhampstead,  Cokhamstede,  Cok- 
liiimstido  [in  Hraughing],  co. 
Hortford,  manor  of,  453,  455. 
Cod,  Maud  wife  of  \\  illiam,  143. 

,  William,  143. 

Codoford.     See  Codford. 

OB  39 


610 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


«      Iflaw.      Oodfllowe      fin      Avist'ord 

hundred-— submerged],       i  o. 
FhinnoT.  advowson  of,  :;7n. 

manor    of,    SSI,    .'5"(». 

Oodeahale,  Coteahale,  William, 
William  de,  burgoag  of  Ox- 
ford in  parliament,  430. 

keeper  of  St.   Fridee- 

wide's  priory,  Oxford,  18,  66. 
Cod  ford.  Codeford,  OO.  Wilts,  manor 

of.  184. 
i    dlyngton.     >'-«   Cudlyngton. 
Codyngton.     Set  Cuddington. 
Codyngton,  Amy  w iff  of  Ralph  do, 
649. 

Hi  nrv  <lc  i 'arson  of  BottCB- 

ford.  280,  369,  467,  476. 

Laurence,   .r)49. 

Ralph  de,  649. 

CoedRhath,Covtracli  [by  St.   I  cell's. 
co.    Pembroke],   lee  in,    191, 
192. 
Copan.  Geoffrey  son  of  John,  389. 
Cogenho,  William  de.  L89. 
Cogenlioe,  Cogenho,  co.  Northamp- 

ton.  fee  in.  1 89. 
Coggeshale     I         shale,   Coggeshalle, 
Andrew,  442. 

Henry  de,  22. 

, .'knight,  197,  240,  244. 

,  Thomas,    Thomas   de,    334, 

342. 
Coggeshall,    Coggeshale,    co.    Essex, 
522. 

,  highway     between     Stisted 

and,  30. 
Coggeshalle.     See  Coggeshale. 
Coghill.  Coggill  [in  Pontefract],  co. 

York,  manor  of,  144. 
coinage  and  currency  : 
doblas,  338. 
francs  of  gold,  102. 
money  dies,  provision  of,  50. 

of  Scotland,  56. 

,  .  .  .  .,  prohibition  of  re- 
moval of,  from  realm,  202. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  regulation  of  cur- 
rency of,  in  England  and  Ire- 
land, 202,  203. 
noble  of  gold,  356. 
Coke.     See  Cook. 

Cokefeld.     See  Cockfield,  Cuckfield. 
Cokefeld,  Adam  de,  parson  of  Sail, 

234. 
Cokeleston.     See  Cuxton. 
Cokeleye.     See  Cookley. 
Coker,  East,  Estcoker,  co.  Somerset, 
advowson  of,   168. 

,  manor  of,   1 68. 

Cokerell,  John,  426, 


Ookeeey,  Dionyaia  wife  of  Hugh  de, 
209,  383. 

[aabel  wife  of  Walter  de,  102. 

Walter  do.   knight,   98,    102, 

m::.  383,  .no. 

Cokeseye.      Sca   ( 'ooksoy. 

Cokewold.     See  Cuxwold. 

Cokhainstodo,      Cokluunstide.      See 

Coekhampstoud. 
Cokkeeden,  Walter,  8. 
Cokler,  John,  of  Bennington,  345. 
Colvson.  John,  42. 
Colas,  Bonoorpe,  Lombard,  51. 

,  Henry,  burgeaa  of  Guildford 

in  parliament,  537. 

,  James,  Lombard,  51. 

Colbayn,  Colebayn,  Thomas,  450. 

,  William,   77,  481. 

Colbroke.     See  Colnbrook. 
Colbroke,  Piers,  esquire,  328. 
Colchester,    Cholcheetre,    Colccstre, 
Colecestre    [co.    Essex],    238, 
255,  459,  460,  522. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

430. 
castle    of,    justices    for    de- 
livery of  gaol  of,  136. 

,  port  of,   382. 

,  St.   Botolph,  prior  of,   131. 

,  St.  John's  abbey,  abbot  of, 

23,  540. 

, and   convent  of, 

246. 

, John  abbot  of,  249. 

Cold     Ashby,      Coldassheby.       See 

Ash  by. 
Cold  Brayfield.     See  Brayfield. 
Coldrey,    Colryth    [by    Bentley,    co. 

Hants],  manor  of,  92. 
Cole,  John,  of  Broughton,  154. 
Colebayn.     See  Colbayn. 
Colecestre.     See  Colchester. 
Coleman,  Colman,  James  de  Barewe 
son  of  Maud,  34 

,  Robert,   of   Little   Bursted, 

142. 
Colepeper.     See  Colpeper. 
Colet,  Roger,  92,  93. 
Coleworth.     See  Culworth. 
Colham.     See  CuDiam. 
Cohere,  Joan  wife  of  John,  212. 

,  John,  of  Boxford,  212. 

Colingbourne,  Colingborne,  Colyng- 
borne,  Colyngbourne,  Edith 
wife  of  Jolin,  459. 

,  John,  228,  229,  459. 

,  .  . .  .,  clerk,  241. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  526. 

,  Thomas,  clerk,  544. 

,  Walter,  258. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


611 


Colley  [in  Reigate],  co.  Surrey,  manor 
of.  370. 

Colley,  John,  of  Dale,  273. 

Cf.  Colly,  Coly. 

Collingbourne  Ducis,  Colyngburne 
Valens,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of, 
322. 

Collingtree,  Colyntrou,  co.  North- 
ampton. 146. 

Colly,  Maud  wife  of  Thomas,  455. 

Cf.  Colley,  Coly. 

Colly  Weston.     See  Weston. 

Colman.     See  Coleman. 

Colm  worth,  Colmword,  co.  Bedford, 
341. 

Colnbrook,  Colbroke,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, 357. 

Colne,  Jolin,  204. 

Colne  Wakes,  Wake  [co.  Essex], 
parson  of.     See  Burgh,  Jolin. 

Colop,  John,  255. 

Colpeper,  Colepeper,  John,  107,  108, 
109,  111,201,271,273. 

Colryth.     See   Coldrey. 

Colryth,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Roger, 
92. 

Colsile,  John  de,  438. 

Colville,  Colvylle,  John,  knight,  360, 
517. 

,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cambridge,   536. 

,  Robert  de,  lord  of  By tham, 

260. 

,  Thomas,  of  Lincoln,  bowyer, 

463. 

Colwell,  Thomas,  abbot  of  St.  Au- 
gustine's, Canterbury,  138. 

,  William,  259. 

Colworthe.     See    Culworth. 

Coly,  John,  173. 

Cf.  Colley,  Colly. 

Colyn,  John,  chaplain,  335,  340,  513. 

,  Thomas,  of  Burnham,  321. 

Cf.  Colyns. 

Colyngborne,  Colyngbourne.  See 
Colingboume. 

Colyngburne.     See  Collingbourne. 

Colyns,  John,  143. 

,  William,  chaplain,  335. 

Cf.  Colyn- 

Colyntrou.     See  Collingtree. 

Colyweston.     See  Weston. 

Comberlowe.     See  Cumberlow. 

Comberton,  Cumberton,  Comburton, 
co.  Cambridge,  69. 

,  Burdeleysmaner   in,    155. 

,  manor  of,  51 . 

Commitmaen,  Kemetmayn,  co.  Car- 
narvon, commote  of,  405,  406. 
Compton,  co.  Surrey,  83. 


Compton — cont. 

Beauchamp,       co.       Berks, 

Hardwell,  Hordwelle  in,  356. 

Chamberlain,       Cumpton, 

Cupton  [co.  Wilts],  241. 

Little,  in  Hennemerssh  [co. 

Warwick],   72. 

Pauncefoot,    Pauncefot,   co. 

Somerset,     parson     of.     See 
Cockes,  John. 
Compton.  Jolin,  194. 
,  Thomas  de,  coroner  of  War- 
wickshire, 297. 
Comyn,  John,  389. 
Conede.     See  Cound. 
Conestable,      John,      of     Halsham, 
guardian   of    the   peace   and 
justice  in  the  East  Riding  of 
Yorkshire,   465,    555. 
Congerston,    Conyngeston,    co.    Lei- 
cester, fee  in,  190,  191. 
Conishead,  Conyngesheved,  co.  Lan- 
caster, advowson  of  priory  of, 
500. 
Controno,  Paunce  de,  379. 
Conyngesby,    John    de,    buyer    of 
victuals  for  the  royal  house- 
hold, 126. 
Conyngesheved.      See  Conishead. 
Conyngeston.     See  Congerston. 
Coo,  William,  486. 
Cook,  Coke,  Adam,  234,  240. 

,  Alice  wife  of  Henry  Foucher^ 

142. 

,  ....  wife  of  Peter,  459. 

,  Henry,    534. 

,Hugh  le,  510. 

,  John,  116,  191,  192,  510. 

,  . . . .,  chaplain,  173. 

,  .  .  .  .,  clerk,    531. 

,  . . . . ,  of  Belton,  1 8. 

,  . . . .,  of  Horndon,  210. 

,  . . . . ,  of   Leicester,    446. 

, of  Shelley,   439. 

,  .....  of  Woolwich,  115. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John,  115. 

.Nicholas,  210. 

,  Peter,  knight,  217. 

,  Richard,  75. 

Robert,  vicar  of  Ifield,  128. 

,  Roger,  266. 

,  .....  of  Bampton,  466. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  of  Belton, 

17. 

,  Thomas,  366. 

, ,  clerk,    528. 

,of  Guildford,  266. 

,  ....  son  of  Poter,  459. 

.William,  534. 

chaplain,  95. 


CA2 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


I       k.  William—  -cont. 

knight,  of   Berkshire, 

L69, 

of  Bampton,  466. 

son  of  John,  of  Helton. 

IT.  18,  80. 

Cookliam.  to.  Berks,  540. 

manor  of,   steward   of.     Sec 

\\  loehe,  John. 

Cooklcy.  Cokeleye,  oo.  Suffolk,  ad- 
vowaon  of,  894. 

Cookeey,  Cofceeeye  [in  Upton  War- 
mi  1.  00.  Worcester,  manor  of, 

Cooloiaheei]  [oo.  Kilkenny] 

<  hofeghaune,    Ireland.    46. 

Copconrt.  Cop]  eoote  [in  Aston  Kow- 
ant.  OO.  Oxford].  539. 

Coppedehalle,  Coppedhalle.  (See  Copt- 
hall. 

Copper.  !•!•  28. 

Of.  Coupere. 

copper,  291. 

Copthall,  Coppedhalle,  Coppedehallo 
in  Littlo  Wigborough,  co. 
Essex.  453,  455,  464,  515. 

Copyn,  Jolin.  510. 

Corbet,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Robert, 
294. 

,Fulk,  83. 

,  ....  son  of  Robert,  of  More- 
ton  Corbet,  79. 

,  John  son  of  William,  1 30. 

.Robert,    knight,    194,    255, 

294. 

,  ....  son  of  Roger,  of   Had- 

ley,  558. 

,  William    brother    of    John 

son  of  William,  130,  131,  155. 

Corbridge,  Corbrigge,  co.  Northum- 
berland,  17. 

,  chantry  at,  1 7. 

,  house  of  lepers  by,  1 7. 

,  manor  of,  17. 

Corbrigge,  John,  John  de,  342. 

,  ....  son  of  Adam  de,  chap- 
lain, 17. 

,  William  brother  of  John  de, 

342. 

Corby,  Corkeby,  co.  Cumberland, 
313,    482. 

[co.  Lincoln],  361. 

Cordewaner,  John,  of  Shefford,  210. 

Cordray,  John,  clerk,  101. 

Corf,  John,  clerk,  201. 

Corfe  Castle,  Corf  castle  [co.  Dorset], 
constable  of.  See  Elinerugge, 
John  de. 

Mullen,  Malyn,  co.   Dorset, 

manor  of,  141. 


Cork  [co.  Cork],  eiti/.ensof,  384. 

farm  of,  5. 

keeper  of  uaol  of,  803. 

mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  5,  303, 

884.  ' 

staploof,  388,  414. 

Corkeby.      Sec-  Corby. 

com,  126,  209,  220,  309,  382,   383, 

403,  417,  491. 
doarness  of,   125,  285,    324, 

325. 
export  of,  from  Ireland   to 

England,  318. 
,  proclamations    relating    to, 

208,  285,  324. 

,  threshing  of,  392. 

coinage,  26,  119,  411. 
Corner,  Ellen  atto,  285. 

,  Jolm,  267. 

Cornewaille.     See  Cornwall. 
Cornewaille,   Cornewayle,   Benedict, 

231. 
,  Brian  do.  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Salop,  536. 

,  ....  son  of  Geoffrey  de,  311. 

,  Peter  de,  the  king's  esquire, 

464. 

,  Thomas,  334. 

,  William,  mayor  of  the  staple 

of  Queensborough,  436. 
Cornewaleys,  Thomas,  357,  358. 
, alderman  of   London, 

447. 
Cornewayle.     See  Cornewaille. 
Cornhulle,  William,  vintner,  of  Lon- 
don, 95. 
Cornwall,    Cornewaille,    county    of, 

103,  518,  521. 
,  county  and  hundred  courts 

of,    421. 

,  duchy  of,  408. 

,  duke     of.       See     Edward, 

Richard. 
,  escheator    in.     See   Mattes- 
ford,  John. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  361. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

537. 

,  prise  of  wine  in,  421,  422. 

,  receiver  in.    See  Trenewy th, 

Ralph. 

,  sheriff  of,  361. 

,  stannaries  in,  407,  408,  421, 

501. 

,  . . . . ,  warden  of,  381. 

,  steward    of    the    prince    of 

Wales      in.     See      Sergeaux, 

Richard. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


613 


Cornwall — cont. 

,  taxation  in,   206. 

,  the  king's  butler  in,  394. 

coronation  services,  34,  51,  157. 

coroners,  appointment  of,  in  London, 
158. 

,  disqualification  of,  423. 

,  .  .  .  .,  by  continuous  abode  in 

another  county,  48. 

,  election  of,  3,  5,  6,  7,  16,  30, 

32,  48.  49,  50,  60,  119,  127, 
129-131,  137,  139,  140,  156, 
159,  161,  168,  169,  171,  173, 
187,  194,  297,  299,  301,  302, 
304,  305,  310-312,  320,  370, 
371,  373,  379,  391,  393,  398, 
404,  412,  423,  477,  497,  511. 

,  .  . .  .,  for  cities,  38,  158. 

, ,  method  of,   127. 

,  extortion  by,  6. 

,  memoranda  of,  296. 

,  office  of,  in  Pembrokeshire, 

386. 

Corouner,  John,  of  Leverington,  198. 

Corringham,  Coryngham  [co.  Essex], 
325. 

,  parson      of.       See     Algod, 

William. 

Corse,  Lumbardus,  the  king's  ar- 
balester, 363. 

Corso,  Negronu8,  363. 

Corston.     Ses  Coston. 

Corston,  John  de,  347. 

Cf.  Coston. 

Cortenhale,  John  de,  71. 

Cortlingstock,  Cortlynstoke,  co.  Not- 
tingham, parson  of.  See 
Outeby,  John. 

Corton,  co.  Suffolk,  246. 

,  . . . . ,  deed  dated  at,  246. 

,  .  . . . ,  manor  of,  246. 

, ,  mill  at,  246. 

[in  Boyton],  co.  Wilts,  manor 

of,  184. 

Corville,  Geoffrey  do,  129. 

Cory,  John,  clerk,  561. 

Coryngham.     See  Corringham. 

Cosby,  Cosseby,  co.  Leicester,  fee  in, 
190,    191. 

Cosington,  Cosyngton  in  Aylesford 
and  Boxley,  co.  Kent,  manor 
of,   101. 

Cosseby.     See  Cosby. 

Cosshe,  John,  burgess  of  Portsmouth 
in  parliament,  537. 

Cossington,  Cosyngton  [co.  Leices- 
ter], 519. 

Cost,  Godfrey,  farrier,  of  London, 
204. 

Costard,  Thomas,  501. 


Costeseye,  Richard,  monk  of  Thet- 
ford,  63. 

Coston,  Corston,  co.  Norfolk,  645. 

Coston,  John  de,  chaplain,  185. 

Cf.  Corston. 

Cosyn,  John,  pepperer,  of  London, 
257. 

Cosyngton.     See  Cosington,  Cossing- 
ton. 

Cosyngton,     Cus>Tigton,     Elizabeth 
wife  of  William  de,  377. 

,  John  brother  of  Stephen  do, 

knight,  of  Kent,  101. 

,  William  de,  knight,  67,  79, 

347,  377. 

Cote.     See  Coat. 

Coteler,     Coteller,    John,    of     Long 
Melford,  93. 

,  William,  the  king's  janitor, 

244. 

Coten.     See  Cotton. 

Cotenam     Fenne,     Cotenham.     See 
Cottenham. 

Coterell,  Ellis,  clerk,  183. 

Coterigge.     See  Cotheridge. 

Cotes  [in  Prestwold],  co.  Leicester, 
457. 

See  Coates. 

Cotes,  Thomas,  289. 

, ,  of  Harley,  528. 

Cotesford.     See  Cottisford. 

Coteshale.     See  Codeshale. 

Cotesmore.     See  Cottesmore. 

Cotheridge,   Coterigge   [co.   Worces- 
ter], 241. 

Cotherstok.     See  Cottorstock. 

Cotom.     See  Coatham. 

Cotom,  John,  of  Scottlesthorpe,  361. 
Cf.  Cotoum. 

Coton.     See  Cotton. 

Cotouro,    Cicely    de,    daughter    of 

Ambrose  de  Camera,  500. 
Cf.  Cotom. 

Cottenham,     Cotenham    [co.     Cam- 
bridge], manor  in,  61. 

Fen,    Cotenam    Fenne,    co. 

Cambridge,    manor    of,    455. 

Cotterstock,  Cotherstok,  co.  North- 
ampton.   513,    531. 

Cottesmore,  Cotesmore,  co.  Rutland, 

477. 
Barrow,  Berew  in.  361,  364. 

Cottisford.  Cotesford,  co.  Oxford.  280. 

Cotton.    Coten.    co.    Northampton, 
fee  in,  1 89. 

Cotton,  Coton,  Henry  de.  parson  of 
Aston  upon  Trent,  362. 

,  Hugh  do.  610. 

John,    of    Cambridge,    116, 

117,203,204. 


614 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


iimn.  L'l."). 

Of.  Cuttyng. 
Ootyngham,  Hugh  de,  276,  277. 

. . .' Uin  f*a  olerk,  284 

Couhruggo.     v       Oowbrid 

Ooubrugge,  Thomas,   149. 

Couov.  tngelramde,  [ngelram, eari  of 
Bedford,  lit.  146,  872,  403, 
440,   hi.  467,  468. 

babel  bis  wife. 

EaabeL 

knight,  493. 

Isabel     wifo     of     Ingelram, 

knipht,  493. 

Coudekirke.  Peter  do,  master  of  tlio 
Marienknyght  of  Sluys,  12. 

Coue.  Nicholas.  510. 

Coughtele.  Stephen,  vicar  of  Hors- 
ham, 268. 

,  .....  ....  of  Little  Sandal, 

80. 

Couhagh.  Couhawe.     See  Cowhawe. 

Coule,  William,  of  Hampshire,  543. 

Coulvng,  Stephen,  friar  preacher, 
43,  44. 

Thomas  de,  450. 

council,  the,  2-4,  11-13,  18,  21,  26, 
27,  30,  31,  41,  42,  44,  50,  54, 
57,  58,  70,  75,  82,  101,  104, 
129,  131,  151,  152,  171,  172, 
187,  196,  208-211,  216,  231, 
232,  237,  238,  252-254,  263, 
290,  291,  293,  295,  298-300, 
303,  304,  309-311,  337,  368, 
376,  379,  382,  384,  385,  392, 
393,  399,  400,  403,  404,  407. 
412,  413,  415,  417,  422,  431, 
432,  438-440,  442,  443,  468, 
469,  472,  473,  481,  486,  488- 
490,  495,  496,  499,  504,  505, 
511,  529,  530,  540,  541,  548, 
551,  555,  556. 

,  enrolment  by  order  of,  331. 

,  great,    173,    174,    384,393, 

416,  439,  440,  548. 

,  privy  chamber  of,  in  West- 
minster palace,  546. 

,  summons  to,  511. 

,  those  of,  learned  in  law,  39. 

See  Bordeaux,  Ireland. 

Cound,  Conede,  co.  Salop,  advowson 
of,  538. 

,  manor  of,  538. 

counsel,  provision  of,  for  alien  liti- 
gants, 130. 

Coupeland.     See   Coupland. 

Coupere,  John,  204. 

Cf.  Copper. 

Coupland,  Coupeland,  Elizabeth  wife 
of  Thomas,   507. 


Ooupkuod    oont, 

loan  wife  of   John  do,    19, 

III.  I  15,  :575. 

Thomas,  607. 

CoUTBOUr.     Sto  Cursor. 

court  Christian,  104, 

Courtenay,  Curtenay,  Elizabeth  wifo 

of  Hugh  de,  tho  younger,  167, 

1 68. 
J 1  ugh  do.  earl  of  Devon,  52, 

131,  167,  168,  286. 

,  .  .  .  .,  tho  younger,  167,  168. 

,  Hugh  son  of  Hugh  son  of 

Hugh  do,  knight,  52,  131. 
Maud   (de  Holand)  wifo  of 

Hughde,  52,  131. 
.Philip   de,    admiral   of   the 

king's  fleet  toward  the  west, 

3,  8,  12,27,  41,218,290,  302, 

310,  318,  366. 
, ,  knight,   82,  280,   439, 

440. 
,  Thomas,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Devon,  537. 
,  William,  bishop  of  London, 

273,  402,  466,  548. 
,  . . . . ,  burgess    of    Newport, 

374. 
Courtray,  William,  217. 
Cousaunce,  Peter  de,  knight,  354. 
Couwarn.     See  Cowarne. 
Couv,  Peter,  keeper  of  the  manor  of 

Rotherhithe,   489. 
Cove,  North,  co.  Suffolk,  Wathe  in, 

371. 
Coveham.     See  Cobham. 
Coven  [in  Brewood],  co.  Stafford,  209. 
Coveney,  John,  draper,  445. 
Coventre,  Covvntree,  John,  John  de, 

100. 

,  . . .  . ,  of  Derbyshire,  90. 

William  de,  534. 

Coventry,   Coventre,   Covyntre   [co. 

Warwick],  206,  525. 
,  alnager   of   cloth   in.      See 

Ray,  John. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  55,  474. 
,  ....  and  of  the  statutes  of 

Winchester,Northampton  and 

Westminster  in,  341. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  486. 

,  prior  of,  282,  285,  467. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  408. 

Coventry  and  Lichfield,   bishop  of. 

See  Stretton,  Robert. 
Coverdalo,  co.  York,  138,  144. 
Coverham  [co.  York],  Carlton  High- 
dale,  Carleton  in,  138,  144. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


G15 


Covyntre.     See  Coventry. 

Covyntree.     See  Coventre. 

Cowarne,  Much,  Couwarn,  co.  Here- 
ford, manor  of,  290. 

Cowbridgo,  Coubrugge  [co.  Glamor- 
gan], 306. 

Cowebaker,  Walter,  merchant  of 
Holland,  498. 

Cowhawe,    Couhagh,    Couhawe    [in 

Xacton,  co.  Suffolk],  321. 
manor  of,  544. 

Coyman,  Robert,  510. 

Coyne,  Robert,  parson  of  Little 
Somerford,  29. 

Covter,  Richard  atte  Hulle  brother 
of  Hugh,  501. 

,  William   atte   Yate   son   of 

Amabel   daughter   of   Hugh, 
501. 

Coytrach.     See  Coed  Rhath. 

Crachemilles,  Crachemulles,  co. 
Middlesex,    108,   201. 

Craddok,  David,  chamberlain  of 
North  Wales,  405,  420. 

Cragfergus.     See  Carrickfergus. 

Crakehall,  Crakhall  [in  Bedale],  co. 
York,  manor  of,  138,  144. 

Cran.     See  Crane. 

Cranden.     See  Crendon. 

Crandon.     See  Gransden. 

Crane,  Cran,  Hugh,  Hugh  le,  citizen 
of  Winchester,   85. 

,  . . . .,  of  Winchester,  458. 

,  John,  215. 

Cranebourne,  Robert,  chaplain,  459. 

Craneford.     See  Cranford. 

Cranewyz.     See  Cranwich. 

Cranford,  Craneford  [co.  Northamp- 
ton], 360. 

Cranford,  Craunford,  Richard,  529. 

.William,  186. 

Cranwich,  Cranewyz  [co.  Norfolk], 
advowson  of,   552. 

,  manor  of,  552. 

Craudene.     See  Croydon. 

Crauncewyk,  Henry  de,  tailor,  526. 

Craunford.     See  Cranford. 

Craven  [co.  York],  service  of  render- 
ing 20s.  a  year  to  ward  of, 
157. 

Craven,  Robert,  74. 

Crawele.     See  Crawley. 

CrawelT.     See    Crowell. 

Crawley,  Crawele,  co.  Sussex,  manor 
of,  309. 

Cray,  North,  co.  Kent,  Kuxloy, 
Rokeslo  in,   507. 

,  St.  Paul's,  Paulynscray,  co. 

Kent,  526. 

Crayford,  John,  alias  Bedford,  445. 


Crede,  Credy,  John,  165. 

,  .  .  .  .,  Lombard,  172,  173. 

,  merchant  of  Lombard  v, 

169. 

,  .  .  .  . , in  London, 

171,  173,  182,  290,  333. 

,....,    ....    of    the    Stross', 

Strozzi,   Old   Stross'  in  Lon- 
don, 440. 

,  . .  . . , of  Florenco, 

172,252,373. 

,  .  .  .  . ,    of    the   fellowship   of 

Charles  de    Strociis    of    Flor- 
ence, 472,  474. 

Crodenhill,  Credenhulle,  co.  Here- 
ford, advowson  of,   112. 

,  deed  dated  at,  112. 

,  manor  of,   112. 

Credy.     See  Crede. 

Creed,  co.  Cornwall,  Tybesta,  Tybesto 
in,  409. 

Creeting  St.  Peter,  Cretyng,  co. 
Suffolk,  fee  in,  24,  25. 

Creke,  William,  511. 

Crekkelade,  Criklade,  Cryckolade, 
Thomas,  Thomas  de,  135, 
249,  286,  444. 

Crendon,  Long,  Cranden  by  Tame, 
Crvndon,  co.  Buckingham, 
fee's  in,  24,  191,  192. 

, N  utley,  Nottele  abbey 

in,  26. 

crenellation  of  church,  11. 

Creppyng,  Saier  de,  24. 

Cressingham,  Cressyngham,  Great, 
co.  Norfolk,  427. 

Cressy,  Hugh,  Hugh  de,  154. 

,  John  de.  161. 

Cressyngham.     See    Cressingham. 

Creton,  Great,  co.  Northampton, 
315. 

Creton,  Jolm,  472. 

Cretyn,  Joan,  wife  of  John,  471. 

Jolin,  broideror,  of  London, 

471. 

Cretyng.     See  Creeting. 

Creuddyn,  Cruthyn,  co.  Cardigan, 
commote  of,  406. 

Crich,  Cruche  [co.  Derby],  chantry  of 
St.  Nicholas  and  St.  Kathar- 
ine in  church  of,  warden  of. 
See  Weston.  William  de. 

,  Tansloy,  Tannosloyo  in,  68, 

72. 

Crichel,  Kyrcliil  [co.  Dorset],  228. 

Cricklado,  Crikkelade  [oo.  Wilts], 
vicar  of.     Set    lusty,  John. 

,  Chelworth,    Choloworth    in, 

501. 

Criklade.     Sec  Crekkulado. 


816 


GENERAL     tNDEX. 


Qrmklsdiks,  Cryngildyk  [in  Stanwix], 
en.  Cumoanand,  l '.'. 
telton,  John,  of  Warwickshire, 

William  d.-.  $24 

vii-ar  of   Lemyngton, 

..  IS6. 

Cristeahafe.     >'<-  ChrishalL 

Cristieton.    St<  Ghristleton. 

Crocheman.  William,  knight,  116, 
117,223. 

CrofToton.     See  Crofton. 

Croft,  Jolin,  John  do.  542. 

,  .....  of  Colmworth,   341. 

of  Over,  09. 

Croftes.  Hugh,  530. 

Crofton  [in  Thursby],  co.  Cumber- 
land, 19. 

Crofton,  Croffoton.  Henry,  Henry 
de,  446,  447,  531. 

,  Jolin  de,  119. 

Croi9er,  Croyser,  William,  193,  194. 

knight,  156,  184,  245, 

359. 

Croke,  John,  of  Hazelbury,  349. 

,  Nicholas,  of  Lacock,  349. 

Crokerne,  Jolin  de,  531. 

Cromolyn.     See  Crumlin. 

Cromer,  Croumere  [co.  Norfolk], 
collectors  of  subsidy  in  port 
of,  30. 

,  fishers  of,  30. 

Cromwell,  Crumbwelle,  Crumwell, 
Agnes  (de  Longevillers),  wife 
of  Robert,  55,  134. 

,  Ralph  de,  justice,  299,  300. 

,  .....  knight,  355. 

,  Richard  de,  559. 

,  Robert  son  of  Ralph,  54-56, 

134. 

Crondal,  Crundale  [co.  Hants],  chace 
of,  425. 

Itchell,  Ichull  in,  425,  453, 

455. 

Crookdake  [in  Bromfield],  co.  Cum- 
berland, 19. 

Crop',  John,  111. 

Crophill,  Crophull,  John  de,  John, 
162. 

, ,  knight,  546,  552. 

,  . . . . ,  of    Nottingham,    505. 

Cros.     See  Crosse. 

Crosby  Ravensworth  [co.  Westmore- 
land], vicar  of.  See  Regill, 
John  de. 

Croseby,  William,  333. 

Crospatrik.     See     Crosspatrick. 

Crosse,  Cros,  Richard,  101. 

,  Robert,  parson  of  Spaxton, 

159. 


i  Robert — ooni. 

tin'  \owngor,  l.r>9. 

Simon,  of  Kingsbury,   1-.'?. 

William  atta,  parson  of  St. 

('lenient    Danes,   London,   76. 

Cross|  nit  rick,  Crospatrik  [cos.  \\'<\- 
ford  and  W'atcri'ord  |.  Ireland, 
prebendary  of.  See  Middol- 
ton,  Thomas  do. 

Crosthwaite,  Crosthwayt,  co.  West- 
moreland, 144. 

Croston,  co.  Lancaster,  107. 

Croto,  Piers  do  la,  114. 

Crouche,  Jolin,  447. 

Crouchor,  Jolin,  243. 

Croukemore.     See  Crow  Farm. 

Croumere.     See  Cromor. 

Crouton,  Sybil  wife  of  Cadogan  do, 
558. 

Crowe,  Jolin,  342. 

Crowell,  CrawelT,  co.  Oxford,  manor 
of,  167. 

Crowemersh,  Crowemerssh.  See 
Crowmarsh. 

Crow  Farm  [in  Eardisley]  ?  Crou- 
kemore, co.  Hereford,  lordship 
of,  370,  490. 

Crowmarsh  Giffard,  Crowemersh 
Giffard,  Crowemerssh  Goffard, 
co.  Oxford,  deeds  dated  at, 
260. 

,  manor  of,  260. 

Croxton,  co.  Norfolk,  246. 

Croxton,  Jolin  de,  161. 

,  Robert  de,  coroner  of  North- 
umberland,   127. 

Croydon,  Craudene,  Craweden,  Grau- 
dene,  co.  Cambridge,  250,  323, 
549. 

[co.  Surrey],  74,  218. 

Croydon,  Margaret,  daughter  of 
Richard  de,  219. 

,  Margery  wife  of  Richard  de, 

219,  280. 

,  Richard  de,  fishmonger,  of 

London,  206,  280. 

,  Thomas,  burgess  of  South- 

wark  in  parliament,  430. 

Croyser.     See  Croiser. 

Cruche.     See  Crich. 

Cruchefeld,  Thomas,  verderer  of 
Windsor  forest,   137. 

Cruer,  William,  425. 

Crumbwelle.     See  Cromwell. 

Crumlin,  Cromolyn  [co.  Dublin], 
manor  of,  5. 

Crumwell.     See  Cromwell. 

Crundale.     See  Crondal. 

Cruthyn.     See  Creuddyn. 

Cruys,  Jolin,  546,  552. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


617 


Cryckelade.     See   Crekkelade. 

Crymelt'ord,    Gniuelford,    Geoffrey, 
461. 

citizen  of  London,  203. 

Cryndon.     See  Crendon. 

Cryngildyk.     See  Crinkledike. 

Cubbel,    William    son    of     William 
son  of  Christina,   414. 

Cuckfield,     Cokefeld     [co.     Sussex], 
vicar  of.     See  Forester,  John. 

Cuddington,    Codyngton    [co.     Sur- 
rey],  549.  " 

,  deed  dated  at,  549. 

,  manor  of,  549. 

Cudlyngton,     Codlyngton,     William 
de,  chaplain,  175. 

Cudy,  William.  320. 

Cuerden,  Kyrden  [in  Leyland],  co. 
Lancaster,   14. 

Culchith,  Gilbert  de,  103. 

Culham,  Colham,  Robert,  armourer, 
377. 

,  William,  235. 

Culvere,  John,  keeper  of  Writtle  park, 
25. 

Culwen,  Culwenne,  Gilbert,  Gilbert 
de,  166. 

,  . .  .  . ,  escheator  in    Cumber- 
land, 177,  313. 

,  . .  .  . ,    ....   in  Northumber- 
land, 177,  180,  361,  398. 

, in  Westmoreland, 

177,  411. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....     in    Yorkshire, 

174,  177,  180,  193,  377,  399, 
422,  476. 

,  .  . .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cumberland,  428. 

,  Isabel   wife   of    Gilbert  de, 

166. 

Culworth,  Coleworth,  Cohvorthe,  co. 
Northampton,  72,  77,  82. 

,  advowson  of,  294. 

manor  of,  77,  82. 

,  mills  in,  77,  82. 

Cumberland,   coroners  of,    50,    169, 
370,  393,  477. 

,  escheators  in,  166.     See  also 

Bygot,    John ;    Culwen,    Gil- 
bert ;    Ergum,    WilUam    de 
Lascels,     Roger ;     Musgrave 
Thomas  de  ;    Nessefeld,  Wil 
ham    de ;     Sayville,      John 
Scotherskelf,  John  do;    Vale, 
William  de  la. 

.justices    for    pleas    of    the 

forest  in,  34,  On. 

,  ....  of  assize  in,  317. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428 

535. 


Cumberland — cont. 

,  sheriff  of,   26,    27,    50,    79, 

121,     169,     262,     370,      393, 

477. 

,  taxation  in,  522. 

Cumbcrlow,    Comberlowe,     Cumbir- 

lowe  [in  Kushden],  co.  Hert- 
ford, manor  of,  453,  455. 
Cumberton.     See   Comberton. 
Cumberworth,  Robert  de,  229. 
Cumbirlowe.     See  Comberlow. 
cumin,  rent  of,  20,  395,  396. 
Cumpton.     See  Compton. 
Cuntasthorp,   Thomas,   Thomas  de, 

chaplain,   446,   447,   531. 
Cupton.     See  Compton. 
Cursor,  Coursour,  Currour,  Jolin,  of 

the  king's  chamber,  288. 
,    William,     of     the     king's 

chamber,  359. 
Cursoun,  Robert,  207. 

,  Simon,  332. 

Curtays.     See  Curteys. 
Curtenay.     See   Courtenay. 
Curteys,  Curtays,  John,  of  Wvming- 

ton,  344,  352,  353,  426.' 

,   Cf.  Wymynton. 

,  Nicholas,  hayward  of  Ash- 
ford,  47. 

,  Robert,  97. 

, ,  the  elder,   532. 

,  Thomas,  545. 

Curton  [France,  dep.  Gironde],  Arn- 

ald  lord  of,  of  Gascony,  knight, 

444. 

,  Thomas  de,  461. 

Cussum,  John,  of  London,  capper, 

523. 
Cusyngton.     See  Cosyngton. 
Cutberd,  John,  of  Brougham,  411. 
,  ....  de  Tyndale  son  of  Alice 

sister  of  John,  411. 
Cutheworth,  William  de,  390. 
Cuton  Hall,  Kyueton  in  Springfield, 

co.  Essex,  fee  in.  22. 
Cuttyng,  Thomas,  burgess  of  Wilton 

in  parliament,  537. 

Cf.  Cottyng. 

Cuxton,  Cokeleston,  co.  Kent.  97. 
Cuxwold,    Cokewold,    co.     Lincoln, 

fees  in,  1 62. 
Cyfrewast.     See  Cifrewast. 


618 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


D 


Dabemotm,  Thomas,  ooroner  of  oo. 

York,  60. 
Dabricheoourt,  I  tobruggeoourte, 

I  I  uihriilu'cuuit.  Nicholas, 

Nicholas  de,  ooostable  of 
Nottingham  castle,  397. 

otherwise  Gollard,  323. 

the  tang's  esquire,  409. 

Dacro,  co.  Cumberland,  iStainton, 
Staynton  in.  26. 

Dacro.  Hugh  de,  knight,  433,  434, 
467. 

Randolph,  Randolph  de,  28, 

165. 

brother    of    Hugh    de, 

433. 

Dadlington,  Dadelyngton.  Dadlyng- 
ton.  co.  Leicester,  107. 

,  fee  in,  190,  191. 

Dadyngton.     See     Deddington. 

Dagenel,  William,  ship's  yeoman,  59. 
>  nliale.     See  Dagnall. 

Dagevylle,  William,  burgess  of  Ox- 
ford in  parliament,   537. 

Cf.  Day vi]le. 

Daggeworth.     See   Dagworth. 

Dagnall,  Dagenhale  [in  Eddies- 
borough],  co.  Buckingham, 
328. 

,  chaplain  of  chantry  of.     See 

Carpenter,  Hugh. 

,  deed  dated  at,  328. 

Dagworth,  Daggeworth,  Nicholas, 
Nicholas  de,  469. 

, ,  knight,  368,  437,  438. 

Dalden, .  John,  327. 

Dale.     See  Deal. 

Dalham  [co.  Norfolk],  parpon  of. 
See  Byntre,  Ellis  de. 

Dallinghoe,  Dalyngho,  Dalynghoo, 
co.  Suffolk,  advowson  of,  234. 

,  manor  of,  234. 

Dalmaigne,  Simon,  515. 

Cf.  Alemayn. 

Dalston,  co.  Cumberland,  Gatesgill, 
Gaytescales  in,  19. 

,  Raughton,  Raghton  in,  1 9. 

Dalton,  John,  clerk,  1 89. 

Dalyngho,  Dalynghoo.  See  Dalling- 
hoe. 

Dalyngrigge,  Dalyngregge,  Dalyng- 
rugge,  Dalyngrygge,  Edward, 
21. 

,  knight,  488. 


Dah  i  —oorU. 

..."....  Roger,  101,  178.  309. 

knight  of  tlio  shiro  of 

Sussex,  •"';>*». 
l>.iia.nc.     .Moruellus,     morcliant    of 

Genoa,  310. 
DamireU,  John,  498. 
1  tammory,  Richard,  farmer  of  Head- 

ington     manor,      Bullingdon 

hiuidrod     and     tho    hundred 

without    tlio    north    gate    of 

Oxford,  156,  394. 

, ,  knight,  2. 

Damport,  John,  of  London,  96. 

Damyot,  Heniy,  526. 

Danbury,  Dannobury,  co.  Essex,  fee 

in,  22. 
Danesfort,  Dunfert  [co.   Kilkenny], 

Ireland,  manor  of,  46. 
Danet,  John,  190,  191. 

Cf.  Donet. 

Daneys,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Roland, 

505. 

,  John  son  of  Oliver,  505. 

,  Richard,  clerk,  505. 

,  Roland,  505. 

Dangle,  Guichard,  443. 
Dannebury.     See  Danbury. 
Dannebury,  William,  237. 
Dansay,  Dansey.     See  Dengie. 
Dansey,    Thomas    son   of    Richard, 

120. 
Darcy,  Jolin,  lord  of  Knaith,  242. 
, the  father,  7,  238,  239, 

244. 
,  Philip  brother  of  John  son  of 

Jolm,  of  Knaith,  7. 
, ,  lord   of   Knaith,   238, 

239,  243. 
Darell,    Dayerell,    Dayrel,    George, 

222. 

Roger,  281. 

,  . . .  . ,  of  Lillingstone  Darell, 

549,  550. 
Darley,  Derleye  [co.  Derby],  abbot 

and  convent  of,  78. 
Daroundell.  See  Arundel. 
Dartford,  Derteford,  Dertford,  Dorte- 

ford,  co.  Kent,  461,  538. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  461. 

,  house  of  preachers  of,  prio- 
ress and  sisters  of,  132,   133, 

231. 
Dartmouth,  Dertemuth,  Dertmouth, 

Dertmuth    [co.    Devon],    41, 

313,  488. 

,  bailiffs  of,  27,  168. 

,  defence  of,  497,  498. 

,  lieutenant  of  the  admiral  of 

the  western  fleet  in,  27. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


G19 


Dartmouth — cont. 

,  mayor  of,  27,  1G8. 

,  port  of,  13,  290. 

DarundelJ.     See  Arundel. 

Dascher,  Raymond,  merchant  of 
Catalonia,  196. 

Dastyn,  Ralph,  of  Greet,  558. 

Datchworth.  Thacheworth,  co.  Hert- 
ford, manor  of,  453,  455. 

Daubeneye,  Giles,  lord  of  the  manor 
of  Kempston,  414. 

,  ....  son  of  Ralph,   knight, 

204. 

,  Ralph,  knight,  204. 

Daubrichecourt.    See  Dabrichecourt. 

Daulyn,  Thomas,  burgess  of  New- 
castle upon  Tyne,  531. 

Daumarle,  Jolin,  sheriff  of  Devon, 
318. 

Daundeseye.     See  Dauntesey. 

Daune,  WilUam,  clerk,  2G9. 

,  . .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  247. 

Dauneye,  John,  446,  531. 

Daunvers,  Edmund,  217. 

,  Elizabeth  wife  of  William, 

81. 

Cf.  Dauvers. 

Dauntesey,  Daundeseye,  John,  388. 

,  Walter,  350. 

Dauphine,  Doulphyne  [France].  254. 

Dautre,  Dautri,  Dautry,  John,  clerk, 
327. 

,  .  . .  . ,  . .  . . ,  of  Buckingham- 
shire, 544. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  of  Carlton, 

250. 

,  Lionel,  knight,  337. 

Dautres,  Richard,  354-356. 

Dautri,  Dautry.     See  Dautre. 

Dauvers,  Walter,  190,  191. 

Cf.  Daunvers. 

Daventre,  John,  78. 

, parson  of  Brome,  199, 

240. 

,  Ralph  de,  clerk,  of  the  dio- 
cese of  London,  548. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  354. 

Daventry,  Daventre,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 78. 

David,  Davyd,  Hugh  son  of,  de  Mal- 
pas,  362. 

,  Jolin,  of  Buttsbury,  136. 

prebend  of,   in  Pontosbury 

church,  124. 

Davy,  Jolin,  542. 

,     . . .  . ,  of   Wyntershell    by 

Billericay,  136. 

See  Fitz  Davy, 

Davyd.     See  David. 

Dawe,  Geoffrey,  of  Essex,  438. 


Dawo — cont. 

Margaret,    199. 

Daweson,  Henry,  34. 
Dayerell,  Dayrel.     See  Darell. 
Dayvillo,  Jolin,  329. 

Cf.  Dagevylle. 

deaf  and  dumb  person,    incapacity 

of,  268. 
Deal,   Dele    [co.    Kent],   parson  of. 

See  Babbyngle,   Jolin. 

[co.  Kent]  ?  Dale,  273. 

Dean,  Deen  [co.  Cumberland],  parson 

of.      See    Stodfold,    William 

de. 
,  Little,  Little  Dene  by  Abben- 

hale,  co.  Gloucester,  180,  194. 
,  West,    co.    Sussex,    Exceat, 

Excete  in,  420. 
Dean,  Dene,  Forest  of,  co.  Gloucester, 

election  of  verderer  of,  187. 
Debden,  Depedene,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 

23. 
,  parson    of.       See    Berners, 

Reynold. 
,  Hamperden,    Amberden   in, 

24. 
Deddington,  Dadyngton  [co.  Oxford], 

deed  dated  at,  529. 
Dedemore,  Jolin,  clerk,  258. 

,  Thomas,  258. 

Deen.     See  Dean. 

Deeping,    West,    Westdepyng    [co. 

Lincoln],  deed  acknowledged 

at,  255. 
Deer,  Richard,  368. 
deer,  425. 

,  stable  for  the  king's,  154. 

Degher,  Nicholas,   264. 
Deken,  Sewal,  80. 

Delamere,  la  Mare  forest  [co.  Ches- 
ter], 407. 
Dele.     See  Deal. 
Denchworth,    co.    Berks,    Circourt, 

Southcote  in,  61. 
Dene.     See   Dean,    Denia,    Mitchel- 

dean. 
Dene,  Geoffrey,  110. 

,  John,  John  atte,  85,  435. 

,  William    atto,     burgess    of 

High    Wycombe    in    parlia- 
ment, 430. 
Deneye.     See  Denny. 
Dengayne,    John,    knight,    66,    110, 

360,  537-539. 

,  Thomas,  538,  539. 

,  William.    62. 

Dengio,  Dansav,  Dansoy,  co.  Essex, 

fee  in,  22. 
hundred,    co.    Essex,     con- 
stable of,  6. 


GENERAL     ENDEX. 


Denham  [oo.  Buckingham],  219. 

(1.«>»I  dated  at.  220. 

I  ><'iiliiim      1  hinlant  -.      I  >ur- 

danl   in.  manor  of.  'J  I '.'. 

Denham,  John,  <»t  Kant,  230. 
Denia,  Dene  [Spain,  prow  Alicante], 

count  of,  ransom  of,  •'(•'{7.  338. 
Denny,  Deneye  [in  Waterbeaoh,  co. 

Oambndge],  1 1  •'>. 

a  I  .    113. 

l  tansby,  John,  460. 
I',  at,  John  do.  198. 

guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  tor- 
miner  in  Lancashire,  58. 

of    Yorkshire,    519. 

Denton.  John  do.  burgees  of  New- 
castle nj)on  Tyno,  531. 

knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cumberland,  635. 

son    of    John    de,    of 

Wakefield,  631. 

Richard  de,  citizen  of  Car- 
lisle ■  in  parliament,  537. 

William,  of  Colchester,  460. 

Denys,  Thomas,  of  Devizes,  of  Wilt- 
shire, 466. 

Doped  one.     See  Debden. 

Depedene.  John,  545. 

Richard,  97. 

Depford.     See   Deptford. 

Depham.  Roger,  24. 

Depple,  John,  citizen  of  London,  460. 

Cf.  Double. 

Deptford,  Depford,  co.  Kent,  126. 

Depyng,  Jolrn,  of  Lincolnshire,  248, 
266. 

Derby  [co.  Derby],  burgesses  of,  in 
parliament,    537. 

Derby,  earl  of.  See  Henry  duke  of 
Lancaster. 

Derby,  county  of,  77,  98,  198. 

,  coroners  of,   497. 

,   escheator    in.       See     Bek- 

yngham,  Jolrn  de ;  Foucher, 
John ;    Stanhope,  John. 

,  issues  of,  48. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

536. 

,  sheriff  of,   48,   90,   497. 

,  taxation  in,  42,  368. 

Derby,  West,  hundred  of,  Westeder- 
bishire  wapentake,  co.  Lan- 
caster, bailiff  of.  See  Chadir- 
ton,  Henry  de. 

Derby,  Hugh,  354,  360. 

,  John,  354,  360. 

,  Stephen,  460. 

,  ....  son  of  Hugh,  of  Stans- 

ted  Montfichet,  354,  360. 


Derby — rout. 

Thomas,    of    Leioeatanhiva, 

333. 

Walter,  of  Bristol,  303. 

William.  62,  63. 

Dereham,  West,  Wostderham,  co. 
Norfolk,  516. 

Dereham.     See  Dersham. 

Deri  eld,  John,  472. 

Derham,  William  do,  511. 

I  iirlaston,   Richard,  75. 

I  tarleye.     See  Darley. 

Darlyng,  Simon,  231. 

Dernowelle,  John,  232. 

Dersham,  Dereham,  Geoffrey,  Goof- 
frey  de,  199. 

. . . .,  steward  of  the  honour 

of  Rayleigh,  38,  133. 

Dortoford.     See  Dartford. 

Dertemuth.     See  Dartmouth. 

Dertford.     See  Dartford. 

Dertmouth,  Dertmuth.  See  Dart- 
mouth. 

Derwent,  river,  co.  York,  mill  on,  163. 

Derwentwaatre,  Jolrn  de,  433. 

Descales.     See  Scales. 

Deschales,  William,  master  of  la 
Seinte  Mariecogge,  10. 

Deseburgh,  William  de,  of  New- 
castle upon  Tyne,  48. 

Desmond,  Dessemond,  countes3  of. 
See  FitzGerald,  Eleanor. 

,  earl    of.       See    FitzGerald, 

Gerald. 

Despenser,  Despencer,  Spencer,  Alice 
(de  Hothum)  wife  of  Hugh 
le,  46,  51. 

,  Edward   le,    123,    303,    370, 

388,   398,  488. 

, ,  knight,  299,  305,  417. 

, lord  le,  484,    485,  487. 

,  Elizabeth  la,  481,  487. 

,  ....  (de  Burgerssh)  wife  of 

Edward  le,  298,  299,  305,  365. 

,    ,  assignment    of 

dower  to,  305-308. 

,  Guy  de  Bryene  son  of  Eliza- 
beth la,  481. 

,  Hugh    son    of    Edward    le, 

knight,  46,  51. 

,  lord  le,  21. 

,  Philip  le,  knight,  323,  354. 

,  Thomas  le,  398. 

See  Spencer. 

Dessemond.     See  Desmond. 

Dethek,  John  de,  68,  69. 

,  William  de,  72. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  68,  69. 

Dethick,  Dethek,  co.  Derby,  deeds 
dated  at,  72. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


621 


Deuddwr,     Deudour,   commote    of, 
[co.  Montgomery],  50. 

Deiryas,  William.  517. 

,  .....  of  Charwelton,  544. 

Devenissh,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas, 
55. 

Devensshyre.     See  Devon. 

Deverous,  Devorose,  Jolin,  307. 

, ,  knight,    89. 

,  William,    coroner    of    Here- 
ford shire,  477. 

Devizes,  Vyse,  co.  Wilts,  466. 

Devon,  county  of,  Devenssyhvre,  74, 
75,229,278.436. 

,  coroners  of,  32,  60,  477. 

,  earl     of.       Sec    Courtenay, 

Hugh  de. 

,  escheator    in.       See    Cham- 

pernoun,     Thomas ;      Hulle, 
Robert;    Mattesford,  John. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  30. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

537." 

,  oppression  of  people  of,  380, 

381. 

,  receiver  in.     iSeeTrenewyth, 

Ralph. 

.sheriff  of,    17,    32,    60,   477. 

See  also  Daumarle,  John. 

,  stannaries  in,  407,  421. 

, ,  warden  of,  380,  381. 

,  steward    of    the    prince    of 

Wales     in.       See     Sergeaux, 
Richard. 

,  taxation  in,   206. 

Devorose.     See  Deverous. 

Dextre,  Dextere,  Deystere,  Robert, 
510. 

,  William,    of    Hallaton,    76, 

257. 

Deye,  Alan,  of  Waterbeach,  113. 

,  Emma,    122. 

Richard,  burgess  of  North- 
ampton in  parliament,  537. 

,  Thomas,    14. 

Doyncourt,  family  of,  53. 

,  John,  439. 

Deystere.     See  Dextre. 

Dickleburgh,     Dicleburgh,     Dittlc- 
burgh,  co.  Norfolk,  400,  491. 

Diconson,   Robert  son   of   William, 

500. 
Diddington,  Dodyngton,  co.   Hunt- 
ingdon, 230. 

,  deed  dated  at,  230. 

,  Grymbaudcs  in,  230. 

Digby,  John,  canon  of  Catloy.  95. 
Digge,  Roger,  207,  219,  280. 
Dighton,  Dyghton,  Hawiso  wife  of 
Johnde,  61. 


Dighton — cont. 

William  de.  parson  of  Stain- 

dro]>.  519. 

Dikeswell,  Robert  de,  4 :!.">. 

Dinllaen,  Dynthlaen,  co.  Carnarvon, 
commote  of,  405,  406. 

Dinnington,  Dynyn^ton,  co.  Somer- 
set, fee  in.  .*5o7. 

Dinton,  Donynton  [co.  Buckingham], 
manor  of,  91. 

,  Dunynton,  co.  Wilts,  241. 

Dirland,  John,  chaplain,  362. 

Cf.  Irland. 

Dispencer.     See  Spencer. 

Diss,  Disse,  co.  Norfolk,  106. 

Disseford,  Jolin,  clerk,  349. 

Distington,  Distyngton,  co.  Cumber- 
land, manor  of ,  166. 

Ditteridge,  Sycherugge  [co.  Wilts], 
manor  of,  350. 

Dittleburgh.     See  Dickleburgh. 

Ditton,  Dvtton,  Acton  (sic)  [co. 
Kent],    507. 

Camois.   ]  )ytton  Camois  [in 

Wood  Ditton],  co.  Cambridge, 
108,  201, 

,  advowson  of  chapel  of, 

108,  201. 

,  manor   of,   108,    201, 

411. 

,  mill  in.  201. 

,  Fen,  Fenditton  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], 62. 

Ditton,  Alan  de,  clerk,  63. 

,  John,  542. 

divine  service,  protection  of,  137. 

Dluet.     See  Bluet. 

Dockyng,  John,  collector  of  customs 
in  the  port  of  King's  Lynn, 
379,  509. 

Dodderhill,  co.  Worcester,  Kings- 
land,   Kyngeslond  in,   493. 

Doddington,  co.  Kent,  Sharsted 
in,  57,  206. 

,  Great,  Dodyngton,  Dudyng- 

ton,    co.    Northampton,    35. 

, fees  in,  189.  190. 

,  Little  [in  Great  Doddington], 

co.  Northampton,  fee  in,  189. 

,  co.  Salop,  manor  of,  378. 

Dodeford,  Dodeforth,  Dodford,  .John, 
prior  of  St.  Frideswide, 
Oxford.  150,237,270,  530. 

Dodeston.     See  Dudston. 

Dodeston,  Walter  de,  123. 

Dodford.     See   Dodeford. 

Dodyngton.  See  Diddington,  Dod- 
dington. 

Doget,  Duket,  Alice  wifo  of  John, 
54,  429,  25o. 


622 


GENERAL     lM'K.X. 


Docrot — cant. 

Tolm.     To. 

Milled  Boterwiok,  Bo- 

t«'r\\ik.    of    Butterwiok,    64 
BO,  243,  249,  260. 

citizen  of  London.  7">, 

260. 

Cf.  Boterwik. 

lvilv.  Doylly,  Doyly,  Thomas,  260, 
614 

'William.  302. 

Of.  Dolv. 

Dokok.  Thomas,  283. 

Dolvorvn.  Dolvorvn.  Clement, 
Clement  de,  272,  328. 

Dolv.  Alexander,  kinc's  clerk,  80,  87. 

...*....     Of.  Doily. 

Dominiei,  James,  mercliant  of  Cata- 
lonia. 196. 

Donaghmoro  [co.  Kildare]  ?  Done- 
mow  e,  1  )onmowe,  Ireland, 
manor  of.  238.  242.  243. 

1  >c>neastre.  Donekastro,  John  do, 
clerk.  1-'::. 

Richard  de,  clerk,  510. 

,  William.   329. 

Donemede,  William,  339. 

Donemowe.     See   Donaghmore. 

Donet,  John,  merchant  of  London, 
440. 

Cf.  Danet. 

Doneuold,  John,  547,  548. 

Donewych,  Donewys.  See  Dun- 
wich. 

Donkirke.     See   Dunkirk. 

Donmowe.  See  Donaglimore,  Dun- 
mow. 

Donne,  Edward,  199. 

Cf.  Doune. 

Donnington,  Donyngton  [co.  Berks], 
parson  of.  See  Beneger, 
Richard. 

Donnyng,  John,  of  Bradwell,  123. 

Cf.  Dunyng. 

Donton.     See  Dunton. 

Donyngton.     See  Donm'ngton. 

Donyngton,  Nicholas,  coroner  of  Ox- 
fordshire, 299. 

Donyngworth.     See   Dunningworth. 

Donynton.     See  Dinton. 

Doos,  Amy,  531. 

Dorant.     SeeDurant. 

Dorchester,  Dorcestre,  Dorchestre 
[co.  Dorset],  205. 

,  deed  dated  at,  531. 

,  Frome  Whitfield,  Wytefeld 

in,  184. 

Dorchestre,  Richard,  531. 

Dore,  Douere  in  Scarvesdale  [co. 
Derby],  284. 


Dore,  Joan  wifo  of  Roper,  420. 

Holt.    271,    308,    309,   424, 

426. 

Of.  Ore. 

Doreward,  Henry,  266. 

Dorking,  co.  Surrey,  Westcott,  West- 
cote  in,  I  88,  189. 

Dormington,    Dormvton,    co.    Here- 
ford. Kit. 

Dorsot,    county   of.    204.    223,    227, 
251,  207,  308,  512. 

,  coroners  of,  3,  502,  505. 

,  escheators     in.     See     Cifro- 

waat,   Walter ;    Halo,   John; 
-Moro,   Adam  atte. 

knights  of  the  sliiro  of,  429, 

536. 

sheriff  of,  3,  252,  254,  502, 

505,   527,   542. 

,  taxation  in,  200. 

Dorstone,  co.  Hereford,  Snodhill, 
Snodeshulle  in,  530. 

Dorteford.     See  Dartford. 

Dorton,  Dorton  under  Bernowode, 
co.  Buckingham,  113. 

Double,  Dubble,  John,  291,  329. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Cambridgeshire,  70. 

,  Ralph,  488,  489. 

, fishmonger,  of  Lon- 
don,  409. 

Cf.  Depple. 

Douedales.     See  Dowlas. 

Douere.     See  Dore. 

Doulphyne.     See  Dauphine. 

Doune.     See  Down. 

Doune,  John,  135. 

, ,  clerk,    105,   248,   286, 

287. 

,  Maud,  510. 

,  William,  510. 

Cf.  Donne. 

Dounfermelyn.     See  Dunfermline. 

Dounham.     See  Downham. 

Dounham,  Dounome,  John,  John  de, 
257. 

,  cousin     of     John    de 

Ravensholme,  181,  266. 

Cf.  Dunham. 

Douniswyk.     See  Dunmow  Wick. 

Dounome.  See  Dounham,  Down- 
ham. 

Dounston,  Douston,  Philip,  mer- 
chant of  Wales,  416,  417, 
489. 

Dover,  Dovorre  [co.  Kent],  12. 

,  bailiffs  of,  316. 

castle,     constables    of.     See 

Edmund  earl  of  Cambridge  ; 
Latimer,  William. 

,  issues  of,  375. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


823 


Dover  castle— cont. 

,    lieutenant    of.        See 

Reynes,  Thomas  de. 

,   parish  church  within, 

parson  of.  See  Begyn,  Jolin  ; 
Benet,  Richard. 

,  prison  in,  216. 

,  Domus     Dei,     hospital     of, 

slender  means  of,  126. 

,  mayor  of,  316. 

,  port  of,  collectors  of  customs 

and  subsidies  in,  51. 

,  . . . . ,  keepers  of  passage  in, 

63,  68,  183,  332,  340,  376, 
552,  556. 

doves,  service  of  two  white,  160. 

Dovorre.     See  Dover. 

Dovy,  Jolm,  259,  552. 

,  .  .  .  .,  citizen  of  London,  521. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  mercer,  of  London,  83. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  345. 

dower,  28,  57,  85,  91,  106,  116,  117, 
121,  138,  146,  147,  155,  157, 
166,  174,  177,  204,  223,  287, 
288,  295,  343,  357,  359,  383, 
419,  421,  422,  441,  447,  459, 
488,  492,  493,  503,  509,  523. 

,  assignment    of,    12,   22-27, 

31,  32,  45,  50,  52,  53,  55,  120, 
123,  124,  156,  158,  159,  161, 
168,  175-177,  179,  181,  187- 
193,  206-207,  263-265,  292, 
294,  303,  304-308,  311,  319, 
321,  371,  378,  379,  391,  393, 
401,  405-409,  420,  481,  482, 
492-494,  498. 

,  pleas  of,  36,  240. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  in  husting  of  London, 

178. 

Dowlas  alias  Douedales  in  Camber- 
well,  co.  Surrey,  64. 

Down,  Doune  [in  Northolt],  co. 
Middlesex,  manor  of,  358. 

Downham,  Dounham  [co.  Essex], 
196,  212. 

,  Dounome   [in  Whalley,   co. 

Lancaster],  181. 

Doxenford.     See   Oxenford. 

Doylly,  Doyly.     See  Doily. 

Drake,  John,  555. 

Drass.     See  Drax. 

Draughton,  co.  Northampton,  fee  in. 
190. 

Drax,  Drass  [co.  York],  13. 

,  prior  of,  444. 

Drax,  John,  339. 

,  Thomas,  471. 

Draycote,  Draycote  Fitz  Payn  [in 
Wilcot],  co.  Wilts,  manor  of, 
459, 


Draycote — cont. 

Foliat,    Folyot    [co.   Wilts], 

349. 

Drayton,  Drayton  by  Abyndon,  co. 
Berks,  110. 

,  . .  .  .,  manor  of,  110. 

[in  Bringhurst,  co.  Leicester], 

257. 

[in  Lowick],  co. Northampton, 

deeds  acknowledged  before 
the  chancellor  at,  247. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  letters  close  dated  at, 

155,  246-249,  251,  257. 

Bassett,  Drayton  [co.  Staf- 
ford], Basset  of,  190,  414, 
443,  468. 

Drayton,  Jolm,  357. 

Driestoke.     See  Stoke  Dry. 

Driffeld,  Jolm,  252. 

,  Thomas,  esquire,  462. 

Droem,  Gerard,  489. 

Drogheda,  Droghda  on  the  side  of 
Uriel  [co.  Louth],  Ireland, 
mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  318. 

,    co.     Meath,     steward      of 

liberty  of,  318. 

,  Drugda     [cos.     Louth     and 

Meath],  mayor,  bailiffs  and 
steward  of,  10. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  staple  of,  388. 

Droitwich,  Wych,  co.  Worcester, 
175. 

,  bullaries  in,  1 75,  383. 

,  Witton,  Wytton  in,  493. 

Dronnok,  Adam  son  of  John  de,  262. 

Dronsfeld,  Jolm,  513. 

Droup,  John,  citizen  of  Cork,  384. 

Dru,  Thomas,  236,  528. 

Drugda.     See  Drogheda. 

Dryby,  Eleanor  wife  of  Thomas  do, 
73. 

,  Thomas  de,  73. 

Dubble.     See  Double. 

Dublin,  Dyvelyn  [co.  Dublin],  arch- 
bishop of.  See  Sancto  Paulo, 
John  de  ;  Wickford,  Robert 
de. 

,  Common     Bench    of.      See 

Ireland. 

,  exchequer  of.     See  Ireland. 

,  farm  of,  5. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  5,  9. 

,  St.  Patrick's  church,  pre- 
bendary of  Swords  in.  Sr,-, 
Novillo.  Thomas. 

,  St.   Thomas,   abbey,   abbot 

and    convont   of,    27!». 

,  staple  at,  388. 

,  taxation  in,  9,  10. 

Dublin,  county  of,   •>!».,   •">•">-'. 


GENERAL    ENDEX. 


Daokata  [Film),  DakH  i>y  Totten- 
ham [in  Tottenham!  00. 
Middleei  \.    manor    of,    249, 

•". 
Dndmere,  Thomas,  366. 
Dudeton,  Dodatton  [in  Chirburj 

Salop],  fee  in.  123. 
Dudyngton.     >•  i    Do*  Ldington. 
DnffeJd,  Thomas,  clerk,  84,  552,  553. 

William  de,   80. 

Dufeon,  Eustace,  _'74. 

of  Bedfordshire,  278. 

Duko.  Walter,  113. 

William,   draper.    516. 

Duket.     8<  •   I  k>get,  I  hiokata 
Dnlay,  William,  230. 
Diuich.   .Tolin.   510. 

Ifanoer,  510. 

Duncroft.  See  Dunscroft. 
Dundragh,  Gilbert  de.  53. 
D  undnwv.  Dundragh  [in  Bromfield], 

co.  Cumberland,  53. 

,  eliontiy  at.   53. 

Dunfermline,    Dounfermelyn    [Fife- 
shire],     Scotland,    monk    of. 

See  Karalo,  Adam  de. 
Dunfert.     See  Danesfort. 
Duniiam,  Dunham  upon  Trent  [co. 

Nottingham],  prebendary  of. 

See  Campeden,  John  do. 
Dunham,  Jolin  de,  288. 

,  Richard  de,   288. 

,  Thomas    de,  288. 

,  Wilham  de,  288. 

Cf.  Dounliam. 

Dunkirk.     Donkirke     in     Flanders 

[France,  dep.  Nord],  ship  of, 

486. 
Dunkon,  Robert,  510. 
Dunmow,  Donmowe,  Dunmowe,  co. 

Essex,  244,  514. 

,  fee  in,  23. 

,  Great,  co.  Essex,  204,  224. 

,  . .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  224. 

, ,  fees  in,  22,  24. 

,  . .  . . ,  Newton,  Neweton  in, 

22. 

,  Little,  prior  of,  23. 

Wick  ?  Douniswyk  in  Bum- 
ham,  co.  Essex,  545. 
Dunningworth,    Donyngworth,     co. 

Suffolk,  manor  of,  387. 
Dunscroft,  Duncrof t  [in  Hatfield,  co. 

York],  424. 
Dunstable,  Dunstaple  [co.  Bedford], 

539. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  63. 

Dunstede.     See  Bumpstead. 
Dunster,  Dunsterre  [co.   Somerset], 

520, 


Dunton,  Donton,  Dunton  by  Stock, 
eo.  Essex,  i  12. 

fee  in.  22. 

Nightingale    Hall  ?    Starl- 

yngi    liel  in,  23. 
1  )unton.  John,  John  de,  63,  66 

Walter,  345. 

Dunwioh,  Donewyoh,  Donewye  [co. 
Suffolk],  519. 

mayor  and  bailiffs  of.  li'c. 

Dunvnu'.  Christiana  wife  of  Kichard, 
143. 

,  Kichard,  143. 

Cf.  Donnyng. 

I  hinynton.     Sec  1  linton. 
Durant,  Dorant,  Duraunt,  Henry,  of 
London,  barber,  344. 

Margaret    (Wylot)   wife    of 

Simon.  .'!o4. 

,  Peter,  70,  93. 

,  Simon,  304. 

,  Thomas,   226. 

,  of  York,  60. 

Duras  [France,  dep.  Lot-et-Garonno], 
lord  of.     See  Durefort,   Gal- 
yart. 
Duraunt.     See  Durant. 
Durburgh,  Hugh  de,  knight,  521. 
Durdent,  Edward,  of  Denliam,  219, 

220. 
Durefort,    Galyart,    lord   of   Duras, 

knight,  444. 
Durham,    bishop   of.     See  Hatfield, 
Thomas. 

,  bishopric    of,     liberties    of, 

427,  428. 
,  diocese  of,  attempted  extor- 
tion by  archbishop  of    York 
in,  428. 

,  liberty  of,  21. 

Durnford,     Durneford,     Great,     co. 
Wilts,  manor  of,  352. 

Little,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of, 

352. 
Duston,  co.  Northampton,  manor  of, 

155. 
Dutton,  William  de,  clerk  to  receive 
recognisances     of     debts     in 
Preston,  245. 
Duyn,  John,  verderer  of  Clarendon 

forest,  119. 
Dybeloun,  Wilham,  554. 
Dygher,  Giles,  Fleming,  99. 
Dyghton.     See   Dighton. 
Dygon,  Richard,  97. 
Dyke.     See  Lelley  Dyke. 
Dykeman,  Dykman,  John,  183. 

William, '  f erron '  of  London, 

365. 
Dymmok,  John,  78. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


G25 


Dymmok,  John — cont. 
,  .....  escheator  in  Lincoln- 
shire, 169,  180,  192,  296,  322, 

390,  395,  477,  480. 
Dyn,  JoJin,  of  Downham,  cousin  of 

John  cle  Ravensholme,  181. 
,  .  .  . . ,  rector  of  Stratton  St. 

Michael,  460,  547. 
Dyngley,  Dynelay,  Dyngelee,  Dyng- 

ley,    John   de,    tho    younger, 

103,  104. 

,  Peter,  of  London,  524. 

,  Richard  brother  of   Robert, 

95,  97. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  95. 

,  .  .  .  .,  esquire,   97. 

,  Thomas  de,  95. 

Dynthlaen.     See  Dinllaen. 
DynjTigton.     See  Dinnington. 
Dys,  John,  cordwainer,  346. 

Robert,   302. 

Dy  tton.     See  Ditton. 
Dyvelyn.     See  Dublin. 


E'.     See  Eye. 
Ealand,  John,  212. 
Ealing,  Mellyng,  Yelling  [co.  Middle- 
sex], 215,  216. 
Eamont    Bridge  ?    Amotbrigge    [co. 

Cumberland],  18. 
Eardisley,    Erdesley,    Irdesley,    co. 

Hereford,  294,  490. 

,  castle  of,  370,  490. 

,  court  of,  294. 

,  hamlet  of,  294. 

,  lordship  of,  370. 

,  manor  of,  370,  490. 

,  park  of,  370. 

,  Parton,  Parketon,  and  other 

places   named   in,    294,    370, 

490. 
Eariswell,    EresAvell     [co.     Suffolk], 

deed  dated  at,  530. 
Earl's  Barton.     See  Barton. 
Easington,     Esyngton     [co.     York, 

E.R.],  223. 
,   .....    Lockham,    Lokhokno 

and  Whetholme  in.  223. 
,  [co.    York,    N.R.],   fee    in, 

500. 
Easingwold,   co.   York,   Raskclf   in, 

119,   138,   144 

Wt.  11824. 


Eastbury,    Estbury   [in   Lambourn, 

co.  Berks],  4,  100,  17 1. 
Easter,     Good,     Godythestre,      co. 

Essex,  foe  in,  23. 
,  High,  Heyestre,  High  Estro 

co.  Essex,  244. 

, ,  fees  in,  22,  23. 

,  Banvicks,  Berwyk  in, 

22. 
East  Hall,  Esthallo  [in  Orpington], 

co.  Kent,  manor  of,  186. 
Eastham,    Estham,    co.    Worcester, 

383. 

,  Orleton  in,  383. 

Easthampnet,      Esthamptonet      [in 

Boxgrove],    co.    Sussex,    369, 

424,  426. 

,  mill  in,  426. 

East  House,  Esthous  in  Haveryng, 

[in  Romford],  co.  Essex,  332, 

341,  461. 
Eastleach    Turville,     Estleche,     co. 

Gloucester,  fee  in,  307. 
Eastling,  Eselyng,  co.  Kent,  107,  201. 

,  advowson  of,  107,  201. 

Easton  Maudit,  Eston,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, fee  in,  189. 
Neston,     co.    Northampton, 

Hulcote  in,   540. 
Eaststour,  Estoure  in  Chilham  [co. 

Kent],  98. 
Eastwell,  Estwell,  co.  Kent,  176. 

,  manor  of,   179. 

,  parson  of.    See  Baker,  John. 

Eastwood,   Estwode,   co.   Essex,    3, 

179. 
,  parsons  of.     See  Honesdon, 

Jolin   de ;      Wendlyngburgh, 

Jolin  de. 
Eaton  [Bray  ?],  Eyton  [co.  Bedford], 

539. 
Constantino,  co.  Salop,  Eye, 

E'  in,  484. 
Tregoes,    Eton    Tregos     [in 

Foy],     co.     Hereford,     deed 

dated  at,  258. 

,  manor  of,  258. 

Ebrighton.     See  Ibborton. 
Ebury,   Eve   [in  Westminster],   co. 
*  Middlesex,  64.  253,  256.  362. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  253,  362. 

Eccles    [in    Aylesford,    co.     Kent], 

manor  of,  507. 
Eccles,  Eokles,  John  do,  John,   209. 

of  Norfolk,  212. 

Reynold  de,  234,  354-856. 

ecclesiastical  censure,  prooeeding  by, 

70. 
Eooleeton,  Great  [in  St.  Michael  on 

\\  yre,  co.  Lancaster],  250. 

cu  40 


QM 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Booleiton,  Great — ton/. 

deed  dated  at,  280. 

taw  all  [in  Linton,  oo.  Hertford], 
lord  of,     S      Palbot,  Gilbert 

manor  of.  91. 

i '  Idea     Si  i   I  Son  b 

Edhurton.     OO.      Sussex.      Perching. 

Perehynge  in,  309. 
Eddington,    Baeneton   [in    Hunger- 

ford,  ro.  BerkB],  187. 
Eddlesborough.      Edelesburgh,     co. 

Buckingham,    .'{28. 

deed  dated  at,  328. 

DagnalL  Dagenhalein,  328. 

HudnalL  Bodenhalein,  328, 

660. 
Eihlletliorpo,  Edelthorp  [in  Westow], 

co.  York,  manor  of.  146. 
Ede,  Robert,  110. 
Edeleabnrgh.     See  Eddlesborough. 
Edekneton.     See  Edmonton. 
Edelthorp.     See   Eddlethorpe. 
Bdelyngtan.     See    Edlington. 
Eden,  river,  co.  Cumberland,  pond 

in.  16. 
Edenesore,     Edensovere,    Ednesore, 

John,    John    de,    254,     263, 

441. 
Edeneton.     See  Eddington. 
Edenliam.co.  Lincoln.  Scottiesthorpe, 

Shotelthorp  in,  361. 
Edensovere.     See    Edenesore. 
Edington,  Idyngton  [in  Mitford],  co. 

Northumberland,  53,  54. 
co.  Wilts,  Baynton,  Beynton 

in,  120. 
Edlington,    Edelyngton,    co.    York, 

452,  454. 
Edmonton,  Edelmeton  [co.  Middle- 
sex], 108,  133,  201,  259. 

,  deed  dated  at,  259. 

,  manor  of,   133. 

,  vicar     of.       See     Byeston, 

Thomas. 
Edmund  earl  of  Cambridge,  Cante- 

brigge,   the  king's   son,   424, 

467,  546. 
,   constable    of    Dover 

castle    and    warden    of    the 

Cinque  Ports,  365,  375,  377, 

397,  442,  467,  486. 
,  . . . . ,   lord       of       the 

liberty  of  Tindale,  507. 
,    . .  . . ,  prayers  for  the 

success   of,    224. 
Edmund  earl    of   Kent,  the    king's 

uncle,  403. 
Edmund     earl    of    Lancaster     and 

Leicester,  charter  of,  187. 
Edmund,  John,  116,  117. 


Edmund.  John — cont. 
of  Stcvonton,  coroner 

of  Berks.  131. 

Maud  wifo  of  John,  116,  117. 

Thomas,  232. 

Bdmundisoote,    Edmundscoto.     See 

ESmseote. 
Ednesore.     See    Edonosore. 
Edolf,  Stephen,  646. 
Edryk,    John     son    of    William,    of 

Toft,  identity  of.  312. 
Edstaston,  Edstanton  [in  Worn,  co. 

Salop],   358. 
Edward  I,  78,  138,  399. 

,  charters  etc.  of,  54,  147,  380. 

Edward      II,     anniversary    of,     at 

Gloucester,    470. 
his  charioteer.    See  Sirebeux, 

Stephen. 
Edward  III,  admirals  of  his  fleot.  See 

admirals. 

,  chartor  of,  138. 

,  goods  purchased  in  Flanders 

for,  291. 
,  his    arbalesters.     See    Bon- 

seignur ;    Corse,    Lurnbardus. 
,  his    arms,    silver    salts    en- 
graved with,  165. 
,  his    assewer.      See     Arche- 

baud,  William. 
,  his  attorneys.     See  Heryng, 

Nicholas;  Skilling,  Michael. 

,  his  barge,  7. 

,   his  butler,  485.       See  also 

Assheton,  Robert  de ;    Neu- 

ton,     Geoffrey    de;      Strete, 

William. 

,  his  chamber,  359. 

,  .  .  . . ,  esquire  of.     See  Neu- 

port,  Reynold. 
,  .....  groom     of.     See    Ma- 

heu,  John. 
,  . .  . . ,  messenger      of.       See 

Stygayn,  John. 

,  his  daughter.     See  Isabel. 

,  his  deer,  stable  for,  154. 

,  his  falconer.     See  Tristram, 

John. 
,  his     helmet     maker.        See 

Swynle,  William  de. 
,  his  hencliman.     See  Frank, 

Peter. 
,  his     household,     buyer     of 

victuals    for.     See  Conynges- 

by,  John  de. 
,  . . . . ,  clerk  of  chapel  of.    See 

Wade,  Robert. 
,  .  . . . ,  clerks    of.     See    Bur- 
stall,  William  de ;  Kesteven, 

Ralph  de. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


627 


Edward  III :  his  household — cont. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  controller      of.        See 

Ipre,      John     de  ;       Natoby, 

Richard  de. 

,  .  .  . . ,  gown  of  esquires  of,  58. 

,  .....  marshals  of,  154,  273. 

, .steward  of,    154,   273. 

/See     also     Ipre,     Jolin     de ; 

Neville,  Jolm  de. 

,  . . .  . ,  verge  of,  1 54. 

,  his    hunter.     See    Wyttele, 

Nicholas. 
,  his    janitor.      See    Coteler, 

William. 
his  laundress.      See  Lange- 

leye,  Agnes  de. 
,  lus    marshal.       See    Percy, 

Henry  de. 
his  palfreymen.     See  Aide- 
ford,     Richard    de  ;       Legge, 

Jolm  ;  Warde,  Geoffrey. 
,  his     physician.     See     Bray, 

Jolm. 
,  his      smith.       See     Broun, 

Richard. 
,    his    sons.      See    Edmund ; 

Edward  ;    John;    Wodestok, 

Thomas  de. 
,  his   sumpter.     See   Illef ord, 

Thomas  de. 

,  his  uncle.     See  Edmund. 

,  his  wardrobe,  keeper  of,  at 

Eltham.     See  Ellerbek,  Hugh 

de. 
,  . . . . ,  yeoman  usher  of.     See 

Chippes,    Roger. 
Edward    prince    of    Aquitaine    and 

Wales,     duke     of      Cornwall 

and  earl  of  Chester,   17,  24, 

253,  283,  385,  394,  403,  420, 

421,  501,  558,  560. 
commander     at     battle     of 

Nazare,  338. 
,  his  auditor.      See  Spridlyng- 

ton,  William  de. 

,  his  wife.     See  Joan. 

Edward,  Henry,  70.  93. 

,  John,  326,  367. 

Eem,  John,  of  Compton,  83. 
Egermond.     See  Egremont. 
Eggwood,  Egwode  in  Merriott,  co. 

Somerset,  264. 
Egleton,  co.  Rutland,  40. 
Egremont,    Egermond,     Kgremond, 

Egremound,  co.  Cumberland, 

castle  of,  274,  275,  277. 
Egwode.     See  Eggwood. 
Eirmyn.     See  Ayremyn. 
Eland,    Little    [in    l'ontoland],   co. 

Northumberland,  507. 


Elcombe  [in  Broughton],  co.  Wilts, 
manor  of,  538. 

Eldobury.     See   Aldwick. 

Eldeford.     See  Ford. 

Eldersfield,  EMreefeld,  co.  Worces- 
ter, fee  in.  307,  308. 

Eleigh.     See  Brent  Eloigh. 

Elham,  co.  Kont,  101. 

Elin,  Richard,  baker  of  London,  248. 

Cf.  Elm. 

Elineruggo.  See  Elinruggo,  Elm- 
bridge. 

Eling,  co.  Hants,  Testwood,  Terste- 
wode  in,  449. 

Elinrugge.     See  Elmbridge. 

Elinrugge,  Elineruggo,  Elizabeth 
wife  of  Roger,  174,  175. 

,  Jolin  de,  constable  of  Corf e 

castle,  290. 

,  Roger  de,  Roger,  keeper  of 

St.  Frideswide's  priory,  Ox- 
ford, 15,  38. 

, ,  knight,  174,  175. 

Eliot,  Elyot,  John,  182. 

,  Maud,  215. 

Elis.     See  Fitz  Elis. 

Ellel,  Ellale  [in  Cockerham],  co. 
Lancaster,  fee  in,  500. 

Ellerbek,  Hugh  de,  539. 

,  . . . .,  keeper   of    the   king's 

wardrobe  at  Eltham,   535. 

,  Thomas,  210. 

Ellerede,  John,  87. 

Ellerton  upon  Swale,  co.  York,  222. 

,  deed  dated  at,  222. 

Ellerton,  John  de,  of  Cambridgeshire, 
517. 

Ellesfeld,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas, 
327. 

,  Gilbert  de,  110. 

Ellesmere,  co.  Salop,  Frankton, 
Fraunketon  in,  410. 

Ellesworth,  George  son  of  John  de,  69. 

,  John,  of  London,  336. 

Ellingham,  Elyngham  [co.  Hants], 
243 

Elm,  Jolm  de,  king's  clerk,  233,  234. 

Cf.  Elin. 

Elmbridgo,  Elineruggo,  Elinrugge, 
Elmorugge,  Elmrugge,  co. 
Worcoster,    383. 

,  fee  in,  4(.K>. 

,  manor  of,  175. 

,  Purshul]  in,  383,  493. 

Elmodo,  John,  burgees  of  Leomin- 
ster in  parliament,  130. 

Elmerugge.     See  Elmbridge. 

Elmeehole,  Adam,  326. 

Elmeewell,  ElmewelL  See  Elms- 
woll. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Ehnhan,  South.  Sonthelmham,  co. 

Suffolk,  deedi  dated  at,  365, 

81 
KImlinm.  William de,  knight,  68,  60, 

1 1 ::. 
Ehnrugge.     v      Elmbridge. 
Ehnsweu,  Ehneewell,  Elmewell,  co. 

Suffolk,  manor  of,  604, 

ESnestowe.     S     I  Ustow. 
Elaenham,   EUsynham  by  Thramen- 

hale,   co.   Essex,  fees  in,   22. 

28, 
Elsin^'.   ESsyng,  co.  Norfolk,  manor 

of,  461. 
Elston.   Eyleston  [in  Orchoston  St. 
■].  co.  Wilts,  manor  of, 

I8fi 
Elstow.    ESneetowe    [co.    Bedford], 

274 

,  abbess  of,  274,  278. 

Elsyng.     Set  ESsing. 
Elsyngham,  Piera  de,  206. 
Eleynnam.     Set  Elsenham. 
Eltham  [eo.  Kent],  203.  259. 
litters  close  dated  at,   115, 

218,  219,  253,  588. 

,  manor  of,  2. 

, chapel  in,  485. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deeds  dated   at,    342. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  issues  of,  502. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  koopor  of,  2,  1 5,  485, 

502. 
,     ,     of    the    king's 

wardrobe  in.      See  Ellerbek, 

Hugh  de. 
,  . . . . ,  warden  of  houses  in. 

See  Bataillo,  Ralph. 
parker  of.       See   Beverlaco, 

John  de. 
,  Mottingham,  Modyngham  in, 

36. 
Elvyngton,  Simon  de,  522. 
Ely  [co.  Cambridge],  archdeacon  of, 

official    of.     See   Candclesby, 

Hugh  de. 
,  bishop     of.     See     Arundel, 

Thomas  de. 
,  bishopric    of,     guardian    of 

spiritualities  of,  65. 

,  church  of,  liberties  of,  479. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,    479. 

[co.  Cambridge  ?],  deed  dated 

at,  247. 

manor  of,  247. 

Ely,  Katherine  (Louekyn)  daughter 

of  Robert  de,  475. 
,  Robert  de,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 420,  475. 
Elyngham.     See  Ellingham. 
Elyngton.     See  Hlington. 


ElyriL'ton,     Elvnton,     Joan    wifo   of 

William  de,  88. 
William)     William    do,     85, 

88,   178 

knight,  309. 

Elyot     See  Eliot. 

Elys,  John,  259,  459,  470. 

Of    Wiltshire,    323. 

, son  of  Walter,  366. 

Richard,  470. 

,  Thomas,  296,  470. 

,  Waltor,    366. 

,  William,  332. 

,  of    Groat    Yarmouth, 

382,  438. 

, ,  of  Hoo,  468. 

See  Fitz  Elis. 

Elysson,      William,      of      Scotland, 

263. 
Emberton,  Embirton,  co.   Bucking- 
ham, fee  in,  191,  192. 
Emblohopo,  Emelhoppe  [inThorney- 

burn],    co.    Northumberland, 

322. 
Emeleye,  Robert,  121,  122. 
Emelhoppe.     See  Emblehope. 
Emmory,  Jolin,  of  Harting,  80. 
Emscote,  Edmundiscoto,  Edmunds- 
cote,  co.  Warwick,  107. 
Enefeld.     See  Enfield. 
Enefeld,  John,  227,  351. 
Enesham.     See  Eynsham. 
Enfield,  Enefeld,  co.  Middlesex,  89, 

92,  133,  232. 

,  out  park  of,  133. 

Engemoys.     See  Angoumois. 
English,  Englissh,  Adam,  92. 
,  Henry,    92,    116,    117,   228, 

360. 
Englond,  William,  226. 
Ensfield,  Yenesfeld,  co.  Kent,  manor 

of,  107,  201. 
Enysualgoun.    See  Ynys-yr-ysgallen. 
Epperstone,  Eperston,  Epurston,  co. 

Nottingham,  advowson  of,  86. 

,  manor  of,  86,  233. 

Eppeworth.  See  Epworth. 
Epurston.  See  Epperstone. 
Epworth,   Eppeworth,   co.    Lincoln, 

18,  30. 
,    parson     of.        See    Galby, 

William  de. 
Ercall  Magna,  co.  Salop,  Isombridge, 

Isenbrugge  in,  319. 
Erchebaud,  Erchebauld.    See  Arche- 

baud. 
Erchesfonte.     See  Urchfont. 
Erdesley.     See  Eardisley. 
Erdington,  Erdyngton,  co.  Warwick, 

manor  of,  141. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


029 


Erdyngton,  Elizabeth  wifo  of  Giles 

de,   141. 

,  Giles  de,  140,  141. 

,  Henry  de,    140. 

Margaret    wife    of    Thomas 

de,  140,  141. 

,  Thomas  de,   knight,   2~>~>. 

,  ....  son   of   Giles   do,    104, 

141. 
Erehethe,   Erethethe.     Sec  Erith. 
Eremyte,  John,  49.").  656. 
Ereswell.     See  Eariswell. 
Erghani,  Ralph,  bishop  of  Salisbury, 

284,  393,  399,  542. 
Ergum,  Wilham  de.  William,  eschea- 

tor  in  Cumberland,  11,  10,  18, 

19,  53. 
,  . . . . ,  ....  in    Northumber- 
land, 17,  19,  54. 
,  . . .  .,  ....  in  Yorkshire,  59, 

399. 
Erith,  Erehethe,  Erethethe,  co.  Kent, 

418. 
Erlestoke,     Thomas,     Thomas     de, 

chaplain,  433. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   parson   of    Fisherton 

Delamere,  323. 
Ermyn.     See  Ayremyn. 
Erwarton,  Everwarton  [co.  Suffolk], 

35G. 
Erysy,  Peter,  361. 
escheators'  accounts,  60,  482. 
Escudemour,     Eskydemour,     Peter, 

Peter  de,    knight,    323,    362, 

367. 
Eselyng.     See  Eastling. 
Eskydemour.     See  Escudemour. 
Eslyngton,   Thomas  de,   coroner  of 

Northumberland,     7. 
Esmon,  Maud  wife  of  John,  223. 
Espele,  Emma  (de  Rodome)  daughter 

of  Thomas  de,  20. 
,  John   de,    adherent    of    the 

Scots,  20. 

,  Thomas  de,  20. 

Espley,     Espele     [in     Mitford],     co. 

Northumberland,  20. 
Esse.     See  Nash. 
Essenden,   Esynden,   Esyngdene,  co. 

Hertford,    89,    92,    239,    242, 

243. 
,  rector   of.     See  Hyndelegh, 

William. 
Essex,  county  of,  77,  107,  197,  198, 

204,  205,  216,  225,  237,  249, 

271,  289,  325,  334,  342,  456, 

458,  463,  468,  469. 

,  coroners  of,   171,   304,   311. 

,  earl  of.     See  Bohun,  Hum- 
phrey do. 


ex — cant. 

tsclieator  in,    32.     See  also 

Bataille,  John;  Bataille, 
Thomas;  Ketericli,  Roger; 
Welde,  John;  Wolfreston, 
Roger. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

536. 

,  seamen  of,  7. 

,  sheriff  of,  6,  34,  67,  95,   171, 

199,  212,  304,  311,  362,  363, 
369,   439.   442,   4(»().   497. 

taxation  in,  42,  131,  622. 

Essox,  Thomas  son  of  John,  166. 

,  William.  William  de.  259. 

,  . . .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  237. 

,  .  .  .  .,  mercer,  516. 

Esshescogh,  co.  Lancaster,  Bakester- 

feld  in,  500. 
Essheton.     See  Assheton. 
Esshton.     See  Ashton. 
Est,  Richard,  270. 

,  William,  270. 

Estaldeworthe.     See  Aldworth. 
Estbechesworth.     See     Betchworth. 
Estbradenham.     See   Bradenham. 
Estbroko,   Richard,   97. 
Estbury.     See    Eastbury. 
Estbury,  Agnes  wife  of  Jolin  de,  tho 
younger,    315. 

,  John  de,  John,  4,  68,  142. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  tho  shire  of 

Berks,    536. 

,  ....  son  of    Jolin    de,   the 

elder,  174. 

,  .  .  .  .,  tho  younger,    315. 

,  Katherine  wifo  of  Jolin  do, 

4,  120,  141,  142,  174. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John  de,  4, 

142. 
Estclaydon.     See  Claydon. 
Estcoker.     See  Coker. 
Estcote,  William  son  of   Kathorine 

wife  of  (dies  de,  377. 
Estcourt.     See  Hoytesbury. 
Estgrenewiche.     See  Greenwich. 
Esthaddon.     See  Haddon. 
Esthalle.     See  East  Hall. 
Estham,  Esthamme.     Sec  Eastham, 

Ham. 
Esthamptonet.    See  Easthampnet. 
Esthanyngfeld.     's''<  Eanningfield. 
Estharpetre.     Sec  Harptr 
Estherfyng,  Estherlyjogg.     See  Har- 

ling. 
K- 1 hernia  [RusBia]  !  Estland,  11. 
Esthous.     See  East  House. 
Estilbery,  Estilbury.     See  Tilbury. 
Estkenete.     See  Sennet. 
Estland.     Sec    Esthoniu. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Estloohe.     >■•     I      tleach. 
i:>tl«ni\  11-ton.    8#  Leamington. 

Estinordon.      >\  <    Morden. 

l  iaston,   1 1«  ston. 
m.  <«i  London,  •''•'>-'5. 

Richard  de,  1<»(.».  561. 

('/.  EyBton. 

Estn       v      i   ister. 
Estoure.     >'<<    Baststour. 

Estre]  nham.      >'.  <      Kainham. 
triston.     Sa    Ruston. 
bonny.     >'<<  Stormy. 
Bstwanebergh.     8at  Wanboroogh. 
BatwelL     8*    EastwelL 
Estwode.     See  Eastwood. 

\orldeham.     See  Worldham. 
Bstwrotham.     Set  Wretham. 
Esynden.     Esyngden.     See     Essen- 
den. 
..'ton.     Sec  Easington. 
Etheleston,   John  do,    tlio  younger, 

246. 
Eton,  co.  Buckingham,  480. 

See  Eaton. 

Eton,  Richard,  441. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  80,  100. 

Sirnon,    bailiff    of    Bucking- 
ham, 281. 

Cf.  Eyton,  Hoton. 

Euelot,  Richard,  511. 

Cf.  Hulot. 

Euere.     See  Eure. 
Eukesbury.     See  Exbury. 
Eure,  Euere,  Robert,  552. 

,  Thomas  de,  clerk,  217. 

Eustacz,  William,  264. 

Evenwode,    Robert    de,    parson    of 

Ingram,  150. 
Everard,  John,  177. 
Everdon,  John  de,  clerk,  271. 

,  Richard   de,    parson   of    St. 

Benet,  Paul's  Wharf,  342. 

,  Robert  brother  of  John  de, 

271. 

,  William,  121,  122. 

Everesdon.     See  Eversden. 
Everesholt.     See  Eversholt. 
Everisdon.     See  Eversden. 
Eversden,     Everesdon,     Everisdon, 
Everysdon,     co.     Cambridge, 
66,  250,  323,  549. 

,  manor  of,   110. 

,  Great  [co.  Cambridge],  110. 

,  .  .  .  .,  deed  dated  at,  110. 

,  Little  [co.  Cambridge],  110. 

Eversholt,  Everesholt,  co.  Bedford, 

300. 
Everton,  co.  Huntingdon,  533. 
Everuio,    cardinal    Peter   de,    arch- 
deacon of  Exeter,  39. 


Everwarton.     See  Brwarton. 
Everynghami  Adam  de,  guardian  of 

the  peace  and  justice  of  oyer 

and  terminer  in  Nottingham- 
shire 262. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  560. 

Nicholas  de,  451. 

Everysdon.      See    Eversden. 
Bvesham,  CO.  Worcester,  455,  461. 

,  abbot  of,  128,  470. 

,    attendance     of,     at 

Gloucester,     on    anniversary 

of  Edward  II,  470. 
Evesham,  Thomas  de,  556. 

Cf.  Eynsham. 

Evor.     See  Hever. 

Ewan,  Jolm,  master  of  the  Margarete, 

of  Wareham,  59. 
Ewhurst,  Iwhurst  by  Hanefeld   [in 

Shermanbury],     co.     Sussex, 

manor  of,  127. 
E\vias  Lacy,  Ewyas.     See  Longtown. 
Exbury,  Eukesbury,  co.  Hants,  378. 

,  Lepe,  Loop  in,  378. 

Exceat,  Excete  [in  West  Dean],  co. 

Sussex,  420. 
exchange,  letters  of,   68,   165,   169, 

172,  174,  182,  183,  290,  375, 

419,  478,  509. 

,  writ  of,  171. 

exchequer,  the,  2,  6,  14,  27,  28,  38, 

42,  47,  64,  128,  129,  133,  137, 

145,  147,  159,  160,  161,  164, 

166,  169,  175,  179,  182,  186, 

196,  261,  299,  302,  315,  316, 

323,  338,  368,  376,  385,  392, 

396,  398,  409,  423,  483,  496, 

499,    522. 
,  accounts  at,  136,  313,  379, 

385,  413. 

,  baron  of,  435. 

,  chief   baron  of.     See  Asty, 

Henry  ;   Tauk,  William. 
,    documents     cancelled     in, 

136. 
,  estreats  sent  to,  81,  146,  174, 

504. 

,  receipt  of,  225,  316,  368,494. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chamberlain   of.      See 

Hermesthorp,  John  de. 

,  .  . .  . ,  tallies  at,   51. 

,  . .  . . ,  teller  of.       See  Wou- 

bourne,  Robert  de. 
,  . .  . . ,  treasure  trove  sent  to, 

300. 

,  record  of,  1 96. 

relief  at,  142,  159. 

,  rolls    and    memoranda    of, 

17,  50,  58,  60,  313,  482. 
,  seal  of,  313,  379,  382,  495. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


G31 


excli  equer — cont. 

summons  of,  17,  38.  99,  145, 

176,  285,  347,  355,  399,  465, 
553. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  green  wax,  261. 

treasurer  and  barons  of,   17, 

38,  50,  58.  60,  99,  125,  136, 
137,  145,  169,  175,  285,  301, 
310,  313,  323,  355,  371,  378, 
379,  381,  385,  399,  413,  465, 
482,  553. 

,  ....  and    chamberlains    of, 

147,  309,  316,  387,  391,  400, 
413. 

writ  of,  446. 

See  Cardiff,  Carlisle,  Ire- 
land. 

excommunication,  473,  482. 

Exeter  [co.  Devon],  17,  94,  421. 

,  archdeacon    of.     See    Ever- 

uio,  Peter  de. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  sequestra- 
tion of,  39. 

,  bailiffs  of,  102,  365. 

,  bishop     of.     See    Brenting- 

ham,  Thomas  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  inn  of,  without  Temple 

Bar,  444. 

castle,  17,  421. 

,  cathedral  church  of,  401. 

,  .  .  .  .,  canons  of,  named,  401, 

402. 

,  mayor  of,  102,  365. 

,  port  of,  collectors  of  customs 

and  rents  in,  170,  365. 

,  precentorship  of,  30. 

Exning,  Ixenyng,  Ixnyng,  co.  Suf- 
folk, manor  of,  91,  503. 

Exton,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  75,  92, 
250. 

brother  of  Richard  de, 

95. 

,  .  .  . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Middlesex,    536. 

,  Richard  de,  95. 

Eydene,  Joan  wife  of  Thomas  de, 
232,  235,  237. 

,  Thomas,    Thomas   de,    231, 

232,  235,  237. 

Eydon,  co.  Northampton,  549. 

Eye,  E'  [in  Eaton  Constantine],  co. 
Salop,  manor  of,  484. 

Hall,    Eye    [in   Horningsey], 

co.  Cambridge,  62. 

See  Ebury. 

Eylesford,  Eyllesford,  John,  Jolin  de, 
knight,  112,  257,  258. 

Eyleston.     See   Elston. 

Eyllesford.     See   Eylesford. 

Eynesbury,  co.  Huntingdon,  423. 


Eyneafoid,  John  do,  knight,  3l!>. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  tho  shire  of 

Hereford,  428,  536. 

Eynesham.     8a     Eynsham. 

Eynoun,  David  ap,  chaplain,  of 
Worcestershire,  242. 

Eynow.     See  Aynho. 

Eynsham,  Enesham,  Eynesham  [co. 
Oxford],  abbot  and  convent 
of,   288,  359. 

Eynsham,  William,  pepperer  of  Lon- 
don, 257. 

Cf.  Evesham. 

Eyremyne,  Eyrmyn.     See  Ayremyn. 

Eyston,  Isabel  wife  of  William  de, 
215. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  do,  of  Isle- 
worth,  215,  260. 

,  William  brother  of  Thomas 

de,  of  lsleworth,  213,  215, 
216,  228,  260. 

Cf.  Eston. 

Eyton.     See  Eaton. 

Eyton,  Thomas  de,  coroner  of  Staf- 
fordshire, 16. 

Cf.  Eton. 

Eyzot      See  Ayot. 


Faceby,  Fayceby  [in  Whorlton],  co 

York,  fee  in,  500. 
Faceby,  William,  326,  357. 
Fachel,  Henry,  coroner  of  Berkshire, 

.404. 
Fage,  John,  283. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Roxton,   341. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of   Tempsford,    341. 

Fairford,  Faireford,  co.   Gloucester, 

manor  of,  306. 
Fairher,  Fayrher,  Jolin,  269.  546. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  goldsmith,  of  London, 

545. 

Cf.  Ferrer,  Ferrour. 

Fairolo.     See  Favals. 
fairs,   434,    509.     See  also  Chippen- 
ham, Latton.    Lincoln. 
Fakenham  Magna,  A>i>\s.  Espes,  co. 

Suffolk.  47. 

manor  of,   175. 

Fakonhaiu,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Thomas 

de,  367. 
,    Thomas     de,    the     lung's 

ttorjount  ut  anus,  367. 


(JKXERAL     l.\l»i:.\. 


1\ ate,  John,  ■"•  I 
.!!>'.  Stephen,  of  Yorkshire,  212. 

Northumberland, 
KJelder,    KekLre,  and  \\  ;iin- 

hope,   Wayneeohoppe,    Way- 

neahoppe,  Wm  oeahopaide  in, 

822. 
I'.mges.    .S<<  Van 

Fangfosee,    John,    John   de,    olerk, 
;.  285. 

notary    public, 

1 1 1.  446. 
Fardenahagh,  John  de,  600. 
Farendon.     fita    Faringdon. 
Farforth,   co.    Lincoln,   ftfaidenwell, 

MaideweU,  MaydinweUin,  1<>-. 

222. 
Faringdon,    Farendon,    co.    Berks, 

truants  of  manor  of,  252. 
Farleigh    Hungerford,    Farlogh,    co. 

Somerset,  fee  in,  307. 
Wallop.     Farias    Mortomer, 

co.  Hants,  advowson  of,  226. 

,  manor  of,  226. 

Farlington,    Farlyngton    [in    Sheriff 

Hutton],  co.  York,  manor  of, 

529. 
Farnburne,  William,  of  London,  283. 
Farndon,  Jolui  de,  serjoant,  280. 
Farngate,  Jolin,  217. 
Farnham,  Farnham    by  Storteford, 

co.  Essex,  354,  360. 

,  .....  manor  of,  32. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Hertishobury,     Herte- 

shoo  in,  453,  455. 

,  co.  Surrey,  castle  of,  425. 

Faroon,  Amice  wife  of  Richard,  498. 
Faryngton,  Richard  de,  clerk,  207. 
,  Robert  de,  clerk,  107,  112, 

198. 
Fasakerle,  Thomas,  coronor  of  Lan- 
cashire, 477,  511. 
Fastolf,  Hugh,  245,   343,   427,  431, 

471. 
,    . . . . ,   of  Great  Yarmouth, 

530. 

,  John,  470,  471. 

,  ....  son  of  Hugh,  542,  544. 

.  . . ,  the  king's  esquire,  8. 

,  Margery  wife  of  John,   542, 

544. 
Fatt,  Jolui,  merchant  of  Newcastle 

upon  Tyne,  381. 
Faucham.     See  Fawkham. 
Fauconer,  Faukener,  Dennis,  283. 
,  . .  .  . ,  the     king's     Serjeant, 

539. 

John,    85,    315. 

,     . .  .  . ,    verderer    of    Chute 

forest,  186. 


I     UOOni  C      emit. 

luliana  w  ife  of  John,  'H S. 

Richard,  2,  88,  850. 

Fauelere,  Fauelore.     fifee  Fowler. 
Fauelour,    Fauelore,    Alice   wifo  of 

<  Iregory,  381. 
,  (irogory    brothor    of    Fotor, 

'.VM. 

Peter,  214,  216,  331. 

Faukener.    See  Fauconer. 
Faukos.  Richard,  345. 

Of.  Foukos. 

Fauncy,  Vauncy,  Edmund,  knight, 

321. 

Richard,  of  Hampshire,  528. 

Favals,   Pairolo,  Amald  de,  burgess 

of   Liboiune,  484,  535. 
Faversham,  Faveresham  [co.  Kent], 

abbot  of,  47. 

,  bailiffs  of,   317. 

,  mayor  of,   317. 

Fawkham,     Faucham,     co.     Kont, 

manor  of,  186. 
Fawler,      Fauelere,      Faueloro      [in 

Sparsholt],    co.    Berks,    221, 

425. 

,  deed  dated  at,  426. 

Faxton,  Richard  do,  288. 
Fayceby.     See  Faceby. 
Fayrchild,  Jolin,  of  Norwich,  515. 
Fayrher.     See  Fairher. 
Fayrmay,  Jolui,  513. 
Feering,   Feryngge,   co.    Essex,  521. 
Felbrigge,       Fellebrigge,        George, 

George  de,  246,  247,  534. 

,  . .  . . ,  the  king's  esquire,  382. 

Felhampton,  Feldhampton  [in  Wis- 

tanstow,  co.    Salop],   558. 
Fellebrigge.     See  Felbrigge. 
Felmersham,  William  de,  of  London, 

saddler,  344. 
Felsted  [co.  Essex],  514. 
felt,  441,  442. 
Felton,  co.  Northumberland,  Fram- 

lington,  Framelyngtonin,  507. 
Felton,  Hamon  de,  knight,  451. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight    of    the    shire 

of  Norfolk,  537. 

,  Thomas  de,  91. 

, justice  of  Chester,  407. 

, ,  knight,    89. 

,  .  .  . .,  seneschal  of  Aquitaine, 

385. 
, of  Gascony,  129, 

385. 
Fen  Ditton,  Fenditton.     See  Ditton. 
Fenhall.     See  Finborough  Hall. 
Fenham  [co.  Northumberland],  193. 
Fenn,  Fenne  by  Boston  [in  Fishtoft, 

co.  Lincoln],  345. 


GENERAL 

Fenne,  John  atte,  471. 
Fennystanton.     See    Stanton. 
Fenotry.     See  Venn  Ottery. 
Fen  Stanton.     See  Stanton. 
Fenton,  Church,  co.  York  ?  Fenton, 

560. 
Fenwick,  Femvyk  [co.  York],  451. 

,  manor  of,  451. 

Fenwvk,  Robert  de,  54. 

Ferns',  William  de,  493. 

Ferariis.     See  Ferrariis. 

Ferdinand  I,  king  of  Portugal,  8. 

Ferers.     See  Ferrariis. 

Feriby.     See  Forriby. 

Feriby,  Feryby,  Hugh  de,  of  Barton 

on  Humber,  451. 

,  Johnde,  272,  327. 

,  . . .  . ,  of  Barton  upon  Hum- 
ber, 443,  540. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the    younger,    457. 

Fermer,  Adam,  merchant  of  London. 

366,  367. 
Femandes,  Alphonso,  529. 

,  Gonsalo,  529. 

,  John,  knight,  529,  530. 

,  Pedro,    529. 

Fernham,   Adam,   of   London,    358, 

359. 
Ferns  [co.  Wexford],  Ireland,  church 

of,  canon  of.     See  Middelton. 

Thomas  de. 
Ferois.     See  Forez. 
Ferour.     See  Ferrour. 
Ferrara  [Italy],  473. 
Ferrariis,  Ferariis,  Ferers,  Ferreres, 

Ferrers,     Ferriers,     Anne     le 

Despenser    wifo    of    Thomas 

de,  46. 
,  Elizabeth  (le  Botiler)  wife  of 

Robert  de,   410. 

,  ....  -wife  of  John  de,  414. 

,  Henry,  Hemy  de,  370,  389. 

437,  443,  490,  491. 

, ,  knight,  334,  462. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  36, 

37. 

, ,  of  Groby,  492. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Henry  de,  36, 

37. 

of  Robert  de,  423. 

,  John,    John   de,    395,    396, 

414,  415. 
,  ....  son     of     Robert     de, 

knight,  423. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  William  de, 

36,  492. 

,  Martin.  498. 

,  Ralph  de,  209,  443. 

, ,  knight,   444,   526. 

Robert  de,  Robert,  159,  410. 


IXDEX.  <;:;;; 

Ferrariis,  Robert  de — cont. 

bright*  328,  423,  462, 

487,  526. 

son  of  Joltn  de,   395, 

415,  423. 

,  Thomas  de,  knight,  46. 

,  William  de,  181,  294. 

of  Groby,  knight,  36, 

37. 
Ferrarius,  Arnald,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia, 196. 
Ferrer,  Berengarius,   543. 

Cf.  Fairher,  Forrour. 

Ferreres,  Ferrers.     See  F'errariis. 
Ferriby,  South,  Feriby,  South  Feri- 
by [co.  Lincoln].  451. 

,  fee  in,  162. 

Ferriers.     See  Ferrariis. 
ferries.     See  Tweed. 
Ferrour,  Ferour,  Hugh,   78. 

,    Richard,    of    Mitcheldoan, 

194. 

,  Roger,  532. 

,  .....  king's    yeoman,    232. 

,  Rose,  510. 

,  William,  542. 

Cf.  Fairher,  Ferrer. 

Feryby.     See  Feriby. 

Feryngge.     See  Feering. 

Fever,  John,  of  Whitchurch,  clerk, 

347. 
Fifhide,   Fifhyde,   Fifyde,   Fyfhydo, 
John,  224,  362. 

,  . .  . . ,  citizen  of  London,  253, 

256. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  London, 

553. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  358. 

,  William,  238,  331,  501. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Sussex,  429. 
Fighter,  John,  551. 

Thomas,  109,  551. 

Fille,  Richard,  438. 
Fillingham,  Fylyngham  [co.  Lincoln], 
1  arson  of.     See  Wythornwyk, 
John. 
Fillonglov,  Filonglevo,  co.  Warwick, 

manor  of,  18*8,  189. 
Filz.     See  Kit/,. 

Finborough    Hall.    Kcnliall    [in   One- 
house],  co.  Suffolk,  manor  of, 
30r,. 
Fincham.  Fyntham,  co.  Norfolk,  518. 

deed  dated  at,  616. 

Talbot's   Hall.  Tulbotoshallo 

in.  616. 

Finchinjifiold,     Fynohyngfeld,     co. 

sox,    116.'    117,   203,   450. 
,  manor  of,  223. 


GENERAL     INDEX* 


Finchley,  Fynchek  [co.  Middles 

ledon,  Thyndoo  [•       N   rthamp- 
tonl    1 

fine  roll.  tin-.   Bl 

Finningley,  Fynynglay  [oo.  Nbttmg- 

bam],  77. 
Firby.    Fretheby   [in   Westow],   oo. 

5     ■  k.  manor  of,    1  L6. 
Firsbv.    Krisbv.  co.    Lincoln,  foo  in, 

161. 
fish,  383. 

deameaa  of.  SOS. 

eels,  Senary  of,  408. 

exemption  of,  from  subsidy, 

80. 

herring,  432,  434. 

lampreys,  not   to  bo  taken 

by  nete  m  tbo  Thames,  70. 

,  salmon.    18. 

stockfish.  303. 

(sturgeon,    422. 

whale,  422. 

white  horring,   4u2. 

fisheries,  180. 

of  eels,  408. 

of  salmon,  16. 

See  Thames. 

Fisherton,  Fissherton.  co.  Wilts,  468. 

Delamere,     Fisscherton     by 

Wyly  [co.  Wilts],  323. 

advowson  of,  323. 

,  manor  of,  323. 

,  mill  in,  323. 

,  parson  of.      See  Erie- 
stoke,  Thomas. 

,  Bap  ton,  Babetonin,323. 

Fishtoft,    Toft,    co.    Lincoln,     395, 
477. 

,  manor  of,  395,  480. 

,  Fenn,  Fenne  in,  345. 

,  Hiptofthalle  in,  395,  477. 

Fisscherton.     See  Fisherton. 
Fisshe,  Jolin,  297. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  brewer,  438. 

Fisshere.  William,  510. 
Fissherton.     See  Fisherton. 
Fitelton.     See  Fittleton. 
Fitelton,  John,  267,  531. 
Fithian,  William,  110. 
Fitlyng,  Fyttelyng,  Thomas,  Thomas 
de,  knight,  349,  453. 

,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hertford,  429. 
Fittleton,  Fitelton,   co.  Wilts,    188, 

189. 
Fitz  Alan,  Eleanor  (de  Mautravers) 
wife  of  John,  184,  185. 

,  ....  wife  of  Richard,  earl  of 

Arundel,  tomb  for,  59. 


lit/.   Alan      runt. 

lolm  son  of  EUohard,  oarl  of 

ArundeL    <s'<<     ArundeL 
EUohard,  earl  of  Arundel  and 

Surrey,  the  elder,  23,  :il4.  378. 
,   .  .  .  .,   tomb  for, 

59. 
tho     youngor, 

I7ii.  284,  318,  819,  324,  368, 

369,   :{78,  413,  424,  426,  487, 

514,  519,  538. 
, ,••••,  guardian  of 

1 1  io  peace  in  Sussox,  238. 
Fitz  Androwo,  Roger,  24. 
Fitz  Davy,  Gilbert,  304. 

,  Philip  Cam,   304. 

Richard,  304. 

Fitz  Elis,  Elys,  Margaret  (Pypard) 

wife  of  Robert,  372,  373,  374. 

,  Robert,  372,  373,  374. 

Fitz  Geoffrey,  John,  coronor  of  Hert- 
fordshire,  320. 
Fitz    Gerald,    Eleanor,    countess   of 

Desmond,  145. 
,  Gerald,   Gerard  Fitz  Moris, 

earl   of   Desmond,    145,    146, 

304. 

Cf.  Fitz  Maurice. 

Fitz  Henry.     See  Henry. 

Fitz  Herberd,  Edmund,  knight,  419. 

Fitz  Hugh,  William,  goldsmith,  358. 

See  Hugh. 

Fitz  John,  Fitz  Johan,  Edmund,  292. 

,  Joan  wife  of  John,  157. 

,  John,  157,  204. 

,  .....  verderer  of  Waltham 

forest,  497. 

,  Thomas,  304. 

Fitz    Maurice,    Fitz    Moris,    Gerald, 

earl  of  Kildare,  469. 
,  Maurice  Fitz  Thomas,  earl  of 

Kildare,  295. 
,  . . . . ,  .  .  . . ,  justiciary  of  Ire- 
land, 304. 

See  Fitz  Gerald. 

Fitz  Nichol,   Nichole,   Nicol,   John, 

89,  92. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John,  158. 

,  Thomas  cousin  of  John,  1 58. 

Fitz  Payn,  John,  knight,  459. 

,  Robert,  knight,  271. 

Fitz  Rauffe,  Filz  Rauf,  Fitz    Rauf, 

Elizabeth  daughter  of  Robert, 

544,    549. 

,  John,  246. 

,  . . . . ,  tailor  of  London,  366. 

,  Robert,  427,  549. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  yeoman  of  Humphrey 

de  Bohun,  earl  of  Hereford, 

40,  41. 


GENERAL 

Fitz  Richard,  Jolin,  of  Olney,  354. 

.Nicholas,  23,  227.  ' 

,  Thomas,  227. 

Fitz  Simond,  Symond,  Margaret  wife 

of  Hugh,  93,  94. 
,  Nicholas  brother  of  Edward, 

263,  271. 

,  . . . .,  of  Hertfordshire,  267. 

Fitz  Thomas.     See  Fitz  Maurice. 
Fitz     Walter,     Wauter,     Wautier, 

Eleanor  wife  of  Walter,  276. 

,  Joan,  450. 

,  ....  mother  of  Walter,    the 

elder,  457. 

,  John  son  of  William,  236. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  276. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northampton,  428. 

,  Walter,  knight,  440. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    lord    of    Woodham 

Walter,  71,  197,  267,  274-277, 

456,  457,  544,  545. 
,  ....  son  of    Jolin,   knight, 

424,  457. 
, ,  lord   of  Wood- 
ham  Walter,  449,  450. 
,  the  elder,  knight,  son 

of   Robert,    knight,    457. 
,  William,  knight  of  the  sliire 

of  Cornwall,  537. 
Fitz     Waryn,    Fitzwaryn,    Eustace 

servant  of  Ivo,  542. 

,  Ivo,  knight,  251,  271,   542. 

,  Philip,  knight,  378,  459,  520. 

Fitz    Wauter,    Wautier.     See    Fitz 

Walter. 
Fitz   William,    Filz   William,    Joan 

wife  of  Thomas,  229. 

,  John,  100. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,    59. 

,  Robert,  464,  521. 

,  Thomas,  220. 

,    William,    of    Wanborough, 

100. 

See  William. 

Fladbury,  Fladebury,  co.  Worcester, 

255. 
Hill,  Hulle  and  Moor,  More 

in,  255. 
Flambard,  John,  24,  360. 
Flamville,      Flamvyle,      Flamvylle, 

Flaumville,  Robert,  190,  191. 

, ,  of    Bedfordshire,    217. 

,  William,  468. 

,  . . . . ,  escheator  in  Leicester- 
shire, 493. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     ....    in     Warwick- 
shire,   421,    493. 
,  . . .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Leicester,   428,    536. 


INDEX.  635 

Flanders,  10-12,  21,  135,  332,  495, 

,  burgomasters  and  echovins 

of  towns  of,  12. 

,  count  of.     See  Lowis  II. 

,  men  of,  99. 

.merchants    of,     10-12,    21, 

125. 

,  ships  of,  11. 

,  stock  for  the  Icing  purchased 

in,  291. 

,  towns  and  boroughs  of,  10. 

,  wheat  of,  125. 

Flaredvng,     Arnald,     merchant    of 

Holland,  383. 
Flaumville.     See  Flamville. 
Flaunden,  Flaundon  in  Hemelhemp- 
stead,  co.  Hertford,  550. 

,  deed  dated  at,  550. 

Flaxley,   Flaxlegh   [co.    Gloucester], 

abbot  of,  307. 
Flecchynge.     See  Fletching. 
Fleckney,  Flekeneye,  co.  Leicester, 

fee  in,  190,  191. 
Fleet,  Flete,  co.  Lincoln,  351,  450, 
457. 

,  manor   of,    276,    449,    450, 

457. 
Flekeneye.     See  Fleckney. 
Flemmyng,  Thomas,  of  Croston,  107. 
Flesshewere,  John,  274,  278. 
Fletching,   Flecchynge,   co.    Sussex, 
101. 

,  deed  dated  at,  101. 

Flete.     See  Fleet. 
Fletewode,  William,  295. 
Fliccham,  Flikham,  Flycham,  Simon 
de,  555. 

,  Thomas  de,  del,  551,  552. 

Flint,  Flynt,  county  of,  420,  421. 
Flissing.     See  Flushing. 
Flitteris,  Fliterys  park  [by  Oakham], 
co.  Rutland,  enclosure  of,  40. 
Flixton,  co.  Lancaster,  328. 

Flyxton,  co.  Suffolk,  246. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  St.  Katherine's  priory, 

,  . .  . . ,  . .  .  . ,    nun     of.      See 

Loudham,  Isabel  daughter  of 
William  de. 
Flore,    William,    of    Oakham,    the 
king's  controller  at  Oakham, 
40. 

Cf.  Flory. 

Florence  [Italy],  94,  99,  472,  474. 

,  citizens  of,  472. 

,  league  of,  473. 

,  men  of,  422. 

,  . . . . ,  the  king's  true  slavos, 

494. 

,  morchants  of,  54,  120,  135, 

172,  329,  373,  494. 


GENERAL     LNDEX. 


FIoj  ttta  of — donl 

imprisonment  of,  478. 

in   London,    182,  293. 

societies  of,  2  52,  373, 

172   174. 

territory  i 

Fiery,  Edmund  do,  323. 

Cf.   Flop 

Flushing,    Flissing  in   Seland   1 1 1 » •  I 

land,  Zealand  |,  pun  of,  408. 
Flycham.     Set  Fliccham. 
Flynt     Set  Flint. 
1'1\  \ton.      Si  <     I'lixton. 

FobeU,  Christina  wife  of  John.  533. 

Jut  in.  .").'!.'>. 

l      thing,    Fobbyng,   oo.   Essex,   ad- 

vowson  of,  26. 
Fockerby,  Folquardeby  [in  Adling- 

fleet],  co.  York,  447. 

deed  dated  at,  4  »7. 

I  See  1 

Fogatue,  Gabriel,  merchant  of  Pia- 
cenza,  94. 

Fogge,  Fog,  Thomas,  .'518. 

,  .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Kent,  429. 

Foix  [France,  dep.  Ariege],  count  of 
338. 

Foletby,  John  de,  chaplain,  169. 

Folham,  Geoffrey,  217. 

Cf.  FuUiam. 

Foljambe,  Foljaumbe,  Godfrey,  God- 
frey de,  guardian  of  the  peace 
and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Lancashire,  58. 

, ,  knight,  77,  198. 

,  ....  son  of  Godfrey,  198. 

Folke,  Thomas.  205. 

Cf.  Fouke. 

Folkerthorp,  Thomas  de,  553. 

Folkestone,  co.  Kent,  Tirlingham, 
Terlyngham  in,  176. 

Folkyngham,  John,  Jolin  de,  of 
Lincolnshire,  545. 

,    .....    parson   of   Blackaw- 

ton,  75. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  547. 

Folquardeby.     See   Fockerby. 

Folville,  John,  of  Rearsby,  519. 

,  Robert,  parson  of  Saxelbv, 

518. 

Font.  Richard.  143. 

Fontel,  Christina,  433. 

Foot,  Alice,  510. 

Cf.  Fat. 

Ford,  Old,  Eldeford,  Oldeford  [in 
Stepney],  co.  Middlesex,  108, 
200,  201. 

Forde,  Agnes  wife  of  Richard  atte, 
449. 


Forde    oont, 

\!i<o  wife  of  Riohaxd  de  la, 

l ::.. 

Chriatina  (Cubbel)  sister  of 

William     414. 

ll.niv  de,  323. 

rohn  atte.  542. 

Richard   atte,   do   la,    175, 

449. 

,  morchant    of    Bristol, 

602. 

Robert    atto,    Robort,    453. 

,  tavornor,  553,  556. 

,  Valentino  atto,  109,  113. 

,  clerk,    111. 

William,  William  do,  clerk, 

96,  227,  228. 

Fordele,  Geoffrey  de,  471. 

,  ....  son  of  Geoffrey  de,  471. 

Fordham  [co.  Cambridge],  460. 

Fordham,  Simon,  burgess  of  Colches- 
ter in  parliament,  430. 

Fordingbridge,  Forthyngbrigge,  co. 
Hants,  Midgham,  Migham  in, 
335. 

forest,  the,  assize  of,  34,  90,  397. 

,  justices  for  pleas  of,  34,  90, 

397. 

,  keeper  of,  north  of  Trent. 

See  Latimer,  William. 

,  . . . . ,  south   of   Trent.     See 

Foxle,  John  de. 

See    Amounderness,     Bere, 

Rraden,  Chute,  Clarendon, 
Dean,  Delamere,  Galtrys, 
Grovely,  Hatfield  Broadoak, 
Inglewood,  Lowes,  Melchet, 
Pickering,  Quernmore,  Rut- 
land, Savernake,  Waltham, 
Whinfell,  Windsor,  Woolmer. 

Foreste,  Richard  de  la,  chaplain, 
558. 

Forester,  Forster,  Edmund,  62. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  218. 

,  Henry  le,  clerk,  1 5. 

,  ....  son  of  Hugh  le,  king's 

clerk,  202. 

John,  of  Romsey,  449. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Towcester,  540. 

, of  Wliixley,  500. 

,    .  . . . ,  vicar    of    Cuckfield, 

329. 

,  Nicholas,  236. 

,  Richard,  250,  333,  334. 

,  .  .  .  .,  keeper  of   St.   Frides- 

wide's  priory,  Oxford,  48,  169, 
175. 

,  .  . . . ,  of  London,  222. 

,  . . . .,  of   Stanton  St.   John, 

270. 


GENERAL 

Forester — cont. 

,  Walter.  232.  488. 

,  William,    70. 

,    ....    son    of    RejTiold,    of 

Bandon,  218. 
Cf.  Foster. 

forester,  mutilation  of,  110. 

Foreye,  John  de,  260. 

Forez,  Ferois,  county  of  [France], 
254. 

Forncett,  Fornesote,  co.  Norfolk, 
399. 

Forstall,  Agnes  Baret  wife  of  Jolin, 
of  Bexley,  248. 

Forster.     See  Forester. 

Fortescue,  Nicholas,  of  Plymouth, 
436,   438,  458. 

Forthyngbrigge.     See  Fordingbridge. 

Foss  (river),  Fosse  by  York,  co. 
York,  pond  of,  310. 

Foster,  Jolin.  goldsmith  of  London, 
211. 

Cf.  Forester. 

Fotherby,  John  de,  444. 

Foucher,  Alice  (Cooke)  wife  of  Henry, 
142. 

,    Edmund,    knight    of    the 

shire  of  Derby,  536. 

,  Henry,  142. 

,  John,   escheator  in  Derby- 
shire, 32,  55. 

,  . . . . ,  ....  in  Nottingham- 
shire, 55,  56,  134. 

,  Nicholas,  23. 

Fouchers,  Gynge  Puelle  [in  East 
Horndon],  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 
23. 

Fouke,  Richard,  of  Cambridge,  96. 

Cf.  Folke. 

Foukes,  William,  511. 

Cf.  Faukes. 

Foulemer,  John,  387. 

Foulscote.     See  Fulscote. 

Foundour,  John,  226. 

Founhope.     See  Fownhope. 

Fountains  [co.  York],  abbot  and  con- 
vent of,  252. 

Fountoscaro,  Peter  de,  merchant  of 
Catalonia,  196. 

Fourbour,  Geoffrey,  of  London,  297. 

Fourmer,  William  filz  Cristians,  of 
Sluys,  master  of  la  Sernte 
Anne,  21. 

Fourneus,  Alice,  73. 

,  John,  73. 

Fourneys,  William,  girdler,  of  Lon- 
don,  438. 

Fournyvallo,  Joan  wife  of  Thomas 
de,  knight,  266. 

,  William  do,  248,  252. 


INDEX.  G37 

Fovant,  Fovente  \co.  Wilts],  241. 
Foweho]  e.     See  Fownhope. 
Fower.  (rreyory.  of  Whaplode,  339. 
Fowey,  Fowy  [co.  Cornwall],  offlde 

of  searching  for  gold,  jewels. 

letters  of    exchange   ete.    m 

port  of,  14. 
Fownhope,  Founhope,  Fowehope,  co. 

Hereford,   3. 

manor  of,  530. 

Fowy.     See  Fowev. 
Fox,  John,  444. 

,  Thomas,  100. 

,  William,    coroner    of    Wilt- 
shire, 119. 
Foxhall,  Foxhele  [co.  Suffolk],  manor 

of,  321,  544. 
Foxle,  Foxlee,  Agnes  de,  daughter  of 

John   son   of   Olive   sister  of 

Richard  do  Braundeston,  142. 
,  John  do,  John,  constable  of 

Queonsborough     castle,     315, 

318,  439. 
,  •  •  •  ■ ,  keeper   of    the   forest 

south  of  Trent,  397. 
, ,  knight.    55.   222,   225, 

425,    518,    528,    543. 
,  . .  . .,  knight  of  the  shiro  of 

Berks,  429. 
Foxton  [co.  Leicester],  200. 
Foxton.    Richard   de,    escheator   in 

Warwickshire,  35. 
Foy,   co.  Hereford,   Eaton  Tregocs. 

Eton  Tregos  in,  258. 
Framlington,      Framolyngton      [in 

Felton],      co.      Northumber- 
land, castle  of,  507. 
Frampton,    co.    Lincoln,    advowson 

of,  395,  480. 

, manor  of,  395,  480. 

upon  Sovern,  Frompton  [co. 

Gloucester],  ship  of.  491. 
Franco,  abbot  superior  of  Premon- 

stratensian  order  in.  32,151. 

,  envoys  of,  at  Calais,  646. 

,  king  of.      See  Charles. 

,  men  of.  in  London,  564. 

prior  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

John  of  Jerusalem  in.  298. 
the    bang's    adversaries    of, 

isT    L89    192,  195,  497,  564. 
truce   with,   253,   254,    317, 

365,  494,  564. 
operation  of.    in    vari- 
ous localities,  254. 

war  with,  43,  128,  347.  423. 

See  l  le  de  Prance. 

Francevs,      Franceois,      Francooys, 

Fraunceis,  Fraunceys,  Fraun- 

cois,   Adam,    101, 


GENERAL    IM>l\. 


Frnnrcvs.  Adam  — cont. 

alderman    of    London, 

L97. 

citi/.en  of  London.  133, 

L'«M>. 

ma\  or  ,.i  London,  235, 

.Mti. 

mercer,  t>\  London.  81. 

the  younger,  1 33. 

Vl'ucs    wife    of    Adam.    2.13. 

_*.-.«;.  3.,_>. 

Mice  wife  of  Thomas,  3 

Eleanor  (Xortliw  ic)i )  daugh- 

b t  of  Richard,  66. 

Hugh,  Hufih  le,  510. 

merchant   of    Bristol, 

412. 

John.  122.  238.242.243.245. 

,  coroner  of  Derbyshire, 

497. 
,  parson    of    Papworth, 

69. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Simon,  357. 

,  Richard,  66,  218. 

,  .  .  .  .,  collector     of     subsidy 

and  petty  custom,  136. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of  London, 

379,  380. 

,  . . . . ,  of  London,  66. 

, of  Tathwell,  395. 

,  Stephen,  master  of  la  Seint 

Croyce,    27. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ship  master,  13. 

,  Thomas,  358. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of   Colchester 

in  parliament,  430. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  Middlewich, 

362. 

Cf.  Frankissh,  Frensshe. 

Francisci,  John,  merchant  of  Pistoja, 

419,  478. 
Frank,    Fraunk,    Peter,    the    king's 

henchman,  528. 

,  William,  318. 

Frankeleyn,  Frankelayn,  Frankleyn, 

Fraunkleyn,  John,  256,  462. 
, citizen  of  London,  1 79, 

365. 

,  Maurell,  270. 

Frankissh,  John,   bailiff  of  Holder- 

ness,  443. 
Frankleyn.     See  Frankeleyn. 
Frankton,     Fraunketon     [in    Elles- 

mere],  co.  Salop,  410. 

,  manor  of,  410. 

Fransham,   Richard,   211. 
Franyche,  John,  of  Bennington,  345. 

Cf.  Frensshe. 

Fraunceis,     Fraunceys,     Frauncois. 

See  Franceys. 


Fraunk.     N<<    Frank. 
Fraunketon     .s'<<  Frankton. 
Fraunketon,     Joan     daughter      of 

Richard  do.  410. 

Fraunkleyn.     Sta    Frankeleyn. 
Freboys,  John,  of  Meltonby,  560. 

Katherine  wife  of  John,  500. 

Fivehevillo,       Freohevyle,      Anker, 

Anker  do,    lord   of   Staveloy, 

225. 

, ,  of  Staveloy,  98. 

,  Cicely  wifo  of  Jolin,  32. 

Freman,  Jamos,  21. 

,  Jolin,  259. 

Richard,  chaplain,  111. 

,  Thomas,  547. 

Frende,  Jolin,  coroner  of  Wiltshire, 

156. 
Frensshe,  Freynche,  Jolin,  74. 

,  William.  William  le,  73. 

,  of  Pattishall,  butcher, 

540. 

Cf.  Franceys,  Franyche. 

Frenyngham,  Jolin  do,  270. 

Frere,  Edmund,  coroner  of  Lancas- 

shire,  296,  312. 

,  Jolin,  289. 

,  Richard,  216. 

,  William,    17. 

Fresden,  Fressheton  [in  Highworth], 

co.  Wilts,  356. 
fresh  force,  pleas  of,  386. 
Freshford,  John,  of  Somerset,  83. 
Fressheton.     See    Fresden. 
Freston  [co.  Suffolk],  advowson  of, 

549. 

See   Frieston. 

Fretheby.     See  Firby. 

Fretheby,  Edmimd  de,  knight,  146. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  Edmund  de, 

146,    147. 

Cf.  Fry theby. 

Freton,  Bartholomew  de,  of  Norfolk 

347. 
,  Jolin   de,    John,    clerk,    77, 

82,  83,  110,  280,  320,  367,  368, 

545. 
Frevile,  Freville,  Baldwin,  511. 

,  Ellen  wife  of  John,  343. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Robert,  220. 

,  John,   343. 

,  Robert,   220. 

,  ....  brother  of  John,    343. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Robert,  220. 

Freynche.  See  Frensshe. 
Freynes,  Walter  de,  323. 
friars,  alien,  44. 

,  Austin,  502. 

,  . . . . ,  prior  provincial  of,  in 

England,  224. 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


G39 


friars.  Austin — cont. 

See    Stamford. 

Carmelite,    prior   provincial 

of,  in  England,  224. 

, See  Nottingham. 

minors.  237. 

,  minister   of,    in     Eng- 
land, 224. 

See   Southampton. 

preachers,  43,  402. 

,  master    general  of,  43, 

44.    See  also  Reymundi,  Ellis. 
,  prior    provincial  of,  in 

England,  224.     See  also  Rus- 

sok,  Thomas. 

,  spies  among,  44. 

See    London,    places 

named  ;    Oxford ;    Thetford  ; 

Winch  ester. 
Friday,  William,  216. 
Frie,  John,  267. 
Friern  Barnet.     See  Barnet. 
Frieston,  Freston,  co.  Lincoln,   395, 

477. 
Frinstead,    Wrenstede    [co.    Kent], 

manor  of,  559. 
Frisby  [in  Galby],  co.  Leicester,  fee 

in,  162. 

See  Firsby. 

Friseby,  John  de,  parson  of  Carlton 

Curlieu,  519. 
Friskenay,     Fryskney,     Isabel     de, 

daughter     of     Lawrence     de 

Leek,  343,  345. 

,  William  de,  of  London,  63. 

Frithe,    Jolin   atte,    of   Canterbury, 

205. 
Frode,    Clays    de,    master    of    the 

Seint  Nicholas  of  Sluys,  11. 
Frodsham,  Frodesham  [co.  Chester], 

manor  of,  407. 
Frogenhale,  Joan  wife  of  John  de, 

168. 
Froille.     See  Froylle. 
Frome  [in  Mordiford],  co.  Hereford, 

164. 
,  Frome  Braunche  [co.  Somer- 
set] deed  dated  at,  433. 
Whitfield,     Wytefeld      [in 

Dorchester],  co.  Dorset,  184. 
Fromond,  Robert,  264. 
Frompton.     See  Frampton. 
Frompton,  Margaret  wife  of  Walter 

de,  236. 

,  Walter  de,  Walter,  117,  236. 

,  .  .  .  .,  mayor  of  Bristol,  118. 

,  of   Bristol,    1 1 8. 

Froskobek,  Thomas  do,  clerk,  451. 
Frost,  John,  of  Middlesex,  68. 
.Walter,  446,  447,  530. 


Frost,  Walter — cont. 

,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  in  Kingston  upon 
Hull,  465. 

Frowyk,  Agnes,   340. 

,  Henry  de,  Henry,  353. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Middlesex,    536. 

, of  Middlesex,  351. 

Froyle,  Froille  [co.  Hants],  526. 

Froylle,  Froille,  John,  eschoator  in 
Hants,  55. 

, in  Wilts,    1. 

,    William,    of    Hants,     112, 

113. 

Fryerning,  Ying  Hospitall  [co. 
Essex],  212. 

Fryskney.     See  Friskenay. 

Frytheby,  Thomas  de,  527. 

Of.  Fretheby. 

Fulbrook,  Fulbroke.  co.  Warwick, 
advowson  of,  192. 

Fulford,  Agnes  Harries  daughtor  of 
Henry  de,  346. 

Fulham,  Ivo  de,  256. 

Cf.  Folham. 

Fuller,  John,  of  Elstow,  274. 

.    .  .,  of  London.   336. 

,     ....    son     of     Jolin,     the 

younger,  134. 

,  Walter,  merchant  of  Hol- 
land, 498. 

Fulscote,  Foulscote  [in  South  More- 
ton],  co.  Berks,  461. 

Fulthorp,  Roger  de,  Roger,  193, 
440. 

,  . .  . . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  in  the  East  Riding 
of  Yorkshire  and  in  Kingston 
upon  Hull,  465,  555. 

, guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  North  Riding  of  York- 
shire, 555. 

,  ....  in  the  West  Rid- 
ing of  Yorkshire,  555. 

,  .  .  .  .,  justice,  299. 

,  .  . .  . ,  ....  of  oyer  and  tor- 
miner  in  York,  554. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ....  to    prosorvo    tho 

peace  in  Yorkshire,  233. 

,  . . . .,  ....  to    repair    dikes 

etc.  in  Holderness,  402,  ic>7. 

, knight.  272,  278,  279, 

500. 

Fuoggesascho.     See  Fwthog. 

Furness.  Furneux  [oo.  Lancaster], 
abbot  and  eonvenl  of,  78. 

Fut,  Joan  (de  BeUo  Campo) daughter 
of  Robert  le,  I  ">7. 

('/.Foot. 


C40 


GENERAL     LNDEX. 


Fwthog  Tin    Cwinyoy],    ?    Fuol'^cs- 

aeche  [co.   i  [ereford  |,  351. 
Fyohet,    Waller,    of    1  !a\  crin-,'    atte 

Bower,  868. 
1\  fhyde.     >•      I  Ifbide. 
Fyftmxile,  Thomas,  66  57. 
Fylongley,  John,  oi  Coventry,  525. 
Fylyngham.     >>  •    Fillingham. 
Fynch,  .U'ux  wife  of  Thomas,  273. 

John,    of    Barnsley,    228. 

Thorns 

Vincent,  of  Sussex,   411. 

Of.   Fynk. 

1"\  nchccroft,  co.  Lancaster,  fee  in. 

.-.no. 

Fyneheden.  William  de,  161. 

chief    justice    of    the 

Common  Bench.  9.  171. 

knight,  103,  104. 

Fynchele.     Set    Fmchley. 

Fynchyngfeld.     See  Finchingfield. 

Fynchyngfeld,  Jolin  de.  clerk,  67. 

Fyndegode,  John,  83. 

Fyne,  John  son  of  Roger,  of  Man- 
ningtroe,  350. 

Fvnk,  John,  426. 

.  * Cf.  Fynch. 

Fyntham.     See  Fincham. 

Fynynglay.     See  Finningley. 

Fyton,  Ricliard,  knight  of  the  shire 
of  Worcester,   429. 

Fyttelyng.     See  Fitlyng. 


Gabriel,  Paul,  of  Spain,  373. 
Gaconnoys.     See  Gascony. 
Gatlesby^  Jolin  de,  198,  202. 
Gainsborough,      Gaynesburgh,      co. 

Lincoln,  manor  of,  506. 
Gairgrave,  William  de,  guardian  of 

the  peace  in  the  West  Riding 

of  Yorkshire,  554. 
Galby,  co.  Leicester,  fee  in,  162. 

,  Frisby  in,   162. 

Galby,  William  de,  parson  of  Ep- 

■worth,  356. 
Galdham,  John.  472. 
Galeys,  Richard,  443. 
Galoun,  William,  435. 
Galtrys.    Galtres   forest,    co.    York, 

election  of  verderers  in,  5. 
,  multilation    of    forester  of, 

119. 


Qamblesby,  Gamelisby  [in  Aikton], 
oo.  Cumberland,  1!'. 
iboun,  i  •_'!•. 

,  William,  fche  king's  sergeant 

a1  arms,  63. 
iicl.  John.  <>)'  Salop,  859. 

Gamelegeye,  Gamelgeye.     Sec  Gam- 
bngay. 
oelisby.     S       I  famblesby. 

Gamlingay,  Gamel  <:.unolgeye 

[co.  Cambridge],  283,  517. 

Ganofold,  Thomas,  l'25. 

Ganoun,  Jolin,  265. 

Gaoloro,  Adam,  of  London,   411. 

Gappe,  John  at  to.  471. 

,  William  atte,   the  younger, 

471. 

Gapton  [in  Bradwoll],  co.  Suffolk, 
246. 

garden,  kitchen,  '  kechengardeyn,' 
206. 

Gardener.  Gardyner,  Alexander,  366. 

,  John,  228. 

,  Robert,  merchant  of  Bristol, 

412. 

,  Thomas,  510. 

Garderobe,  Alexander  de  la,  warrener 
of  Burnham,  544. 

,  William  de  la,  224. 

Garderober,  Hugh,  of  Eltham,  203. 

Gardyner.     See  Gardener. 

Garewell.     See  Garwell. 

Garighe,  Peter,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia, 196. 

Garland,  Garlond,  John  son  of 
William,  of  Corringham,  325. 

,  Richard,    clerk,    301. 

Garlek,  Garlik,  John,'  427. 

,  Sara  wife  of  John,  427. 

,  Walter  son  of  Jolin,  427. 

.William,  213. 

Garlond.     See  Garland. 

Garner,  Drew,  221. 

Garnerii,  Guarnerius,  Arnald,  licen- 
tiate in  laws,  nuncio  and 
collector  of  the  pope's 
chamber  in  England,  419, 
478. 

Garrant,  Garraut  in  Brittany.  See 
Guerande. 

Garristoun,  Baligary,  Balygary  [co. 
Dublin],  manor  of,  238,  239, 
243. 

Garrowby,  Gerwardby  [in  Kirby 
Underdale],  co.  York,  fee  in, 
500. 

Garstang,  co.  Lancaster,  Cleveley, 
Cliflegh  in,  500. 

,  Nether  Wyersdale,  Wires- 
dale  in,  144. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


641 


Garston,  Richard  de,  burgess  of  Ox- 
ford in  parliament,  537. 

Garthorpe,  Gerlethorp  [in  Ludding- 
ton],  co.  Lincoln,  447. 

Garton,  John  de,  482. 

,  .  . . . ,  of    Erith,    citizen    of 

London,  418. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Kent.  75. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  418. 

,  Juliana  wife  of  John  de,  482. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John  de. 

418. 

,  Robert  de,  clerk,  84. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  collector     of     subsidy 

and  petty  custom,  136. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  rector  of  Snave,  255. 

,  William  de,   of   Barton   on 

Humber,  451. 

Garwell,  Garewell,  Hugh,  Hugh  de, 
226,  472. 

Garwynton,  Thomas  de,  98. 

,  ....,  of  Well,    332. 

Gascelyn,  Gasselyn,  Christina,  elder 
daughter  of  Geoffrey,  nun. 
132. 

,  . . . . ,  younger    daughter    of 

Geoffrey,  132. 

,  Edmund,    132. 

,  Elizabeth,  lady  of  Chippen- 
ham, 185. 

,  ....  wife   of    Geoffrey     son 

of  Edmund,  130. 

,  Geoffrey    son    of    Edmund, 

130,  132. 

Cf.  Gyselyn. 

Gascoigne,  Richard  de,  18. 

,  William,  of  Yorkshire,  327. 

Gascony,  Gaconnoys  [France],  129, 
254,  287,  444,  560. 

,  seneschal    of.     See    Felton, 

Thomas  de. 

,  wine  of,  393,  485. 

Gascrik,  William  de,  327. 

Gasqian,  Philip,  61. 

Gassellyn.     See  Gasselyns. 

Gasselyn.     See  Gascelyn. 

Gasselyns,  Gassellyn  park,  in  Hat- 
field and  Bayford,  co.  Hert- 
ford, manor  of,  446,  447,  531. 

Gate,  Simon  atte,  358. 

,  William  atte,  of  London,  95. 

Gates,  Richard,  clerk,   358. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  High  Hal- 
stow,  231. 

Gatesgill,  Gaytescales  [in  Dalston], 
co.  Cumberland,  19. 

Gateshead,  Gatisheved  [co.  Durham  i, 
107,  110. 

Gateshull,  Thomas,  chaplain,  133. 

Gatisheved.     See  Gateshoad. 

Wt.  11824. 


Gattus,  Jolm,  of  Genoa,  363. 

Gaudeby,  Hugh  de,  177. 

, ,  clerk,    101,   267,    342, 

367,  426. 

Gaynesburgh.     See  Gainsborough. 

Gaynesburgh,  William  de,  clerk,  of 
Lincolnshire,    552. 

Gaytescales.     See  Gatesgill. 

Gaytskogh,  co.  York,  163. 

Gaywode,  Thomas,  of  Middlesex, 
530. 

Geans,  Salvador,  master  of  la  Seint 
Antoyn,  27. 

,  .  . . . ,  ship  master,  1 3. 

Geddington,  Geidington,  Geidyng- 
ton,  co.  Northampton,  189, 
190. 

Gedlegh.     See    Gidleigh. 

Gedyng,  Elizabeth  (le  Baude)  wife 
of  Robert  de,  knight,  507. 

Cf.  Gyddyng,  Yeddyng. 

Geen,  Thomas,  of  Scotland,  263. 

geese,  rent  of,  264. 

,  theft  of,  221. 

Geffre,  William  Smith  called  Sir 
John,  194. 

Geffrey,  Jolm,  owner  of  la  Poulle  of 
Frampton,  491. 

,  Thomas,  222. 

Cf.  Geoffrey. 

Geidington,  Geidyngton.  See  Ged- 
dington. 

Gele,  Thomas,  542. 

Gelligaer,  Kylthergayr  [co.  Glamor- 
gan], advowson  of,  308. 

Gemot,  Richard,  426. 

Geneurglyn,  Generglyn,  co.  Cardigan, 
commote  of,  406. 

Geneva,  Robert  of,  cardinal  de 
Genevre,  cardinal  priest  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles  alias 
Clement  VII,  173,  174. 

Genoa,  Janua  [Italy],  94,  363. 

,  concord  with,  310,  495,  541, 

555. 

,  men  of,  506. 

,  merchants   of,    33,    57,    61, 

120,  310,  422,  436,  438,  458, 
495    555. 

,  ships  of,  31,  42,  94,  186,  310, 

488,  541. 

Genour,  William,  510. 

Gentery,  Richard,  of  Henny,  225. 

Gentil,  Gentyll,  Gontil,  Lewis,  Lode- 
sinus,  merchant  of  Genoa, 
43<>.  458. 

Nicholas,  verderer  of  Quern  - 

moro  and  Amoundernoss 
fowet,  312. 

Gentils,  Thomas.  363. 

en  41 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Set  Ck  mil. 
imilt.   John,   of   Meldreth,   364, 

ffrey,  Richard  sonof,  smith,  ft.".. 

.'     Of.   In/  Geoffrey,  Geffrey. 

i.  Bernard,  merchanl 

i>1  thfl  Stn>/./.i  in  London.  440. 
of    the    fellowship    of 

r   sinus     de     Strozxte     of 

Florence,  472,  474. 
-  i   Pita  Gerald, 
rohn,  master  of  la  Corps 

-       '.   - 
Gerard.  Alioe,  2 f. 
» leofirey   son  of   Adam,   of 

Fakrnliam  Bfagna,  47. 

John,  103,  121,  122,  461. 

Richard,     of     Shrewsbury, 

171. 
Gerber^o.    Alice    wife    of    Thomas, 

1-cjiiLrlit .  666. 
deley.      Se*    Yardley. 
ipont.     See  Jorpoint. 
[ethorp.     See  Garthorpe. 
lothorp.     Robert     do,     Robert, 

clerk.  66,  443,  44  7. 

Thomas  de,  clerk.  87,  443. 

German.     Simon,     of      Cossington, 

510. 
Germayn,  Robert,  burgess   of   Not- 
tingham in  parliament  537. 
Gemegan,  John,  the  elder,  371. 

,  .....  the  son,    371. 

Gernesey.     See  Guernsey. 
Gernoun,  John,  knight,  360,  361. 
Gervays,   Gerveys,  Robert,  coroner 

of  Suffolk,  32. 

,  William,  160. 

Gerwardby.     See  Garrowby. 
Gestingthorpe,  Gestnyngthorp,  Gest- 

yngthorp    [co.    Essex],   deed 

acknowledged  at,  102. 

,  deed  dated  at,  102. 

,  vicar     of.     See     Bitherne, 

Richard  de. 
Gestyngthorp,     John,     coroner     of 

Essex,  171. 
Geyncrowe,  Ralph,  510. 
Geynes.     See  Gynes. 
Gibbe,  Robert,  of  Dover,  12. 
Gibbes,  Jolin,  burgess  of  Oxford  in 

parliament,   430. 

,  Thomas,  511. 

Giboun,  Gybboun,  Gyboun,  John,  the 

younger,  547. 
,    . . . . ,    . . . . ,  of  Cambridge- 
shire, 208. 

,  William,  93. 

Gibsmere,   Gippesmere  [in  Bleasby, 

co.  Nottingham],  195. 


GHdea  Hall.  Qydyhallo  in  Havering 
[in  Romford],  co.  i:  c\. 
mam  «r  ol .  332,  •*'>  f  l .  461 . 

Gidleigh  T  Qedlegh,  co.  Dovon, 
farm  of,  I  7. 

Giffard,  Gyffard,  Alice  wife  of  John, 
bniiht,  :!•-'»;. 

Edmund,  leasee  of  subsidy, 

42,  2H<i. 

of  Arncott,  keeper  of 

St.  Frideswide'a    priory,    Ox- 
ford, 55. 

,  Elizaboth    wife   of    Gilbort, 

33. 

Gilbert,  knight,  28,  33,   34. 

,  John,  knight,  368,  453,  455. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Gloucester,    429. 

, ,  lord  of  Itchell,  425. 

,  . . . .,  of  Bedfordshire,   358. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of   Cottorstock,   clerk, 

of     Northamptonshire,      513, 
531. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  106,  326. 

,  William,  289,  369,  453,  455, 

463,   464,   514,   515,   534. 

Giffardland,  Giffardeslond  in  Tansley 
[co.  Derby],  68,  72. 

Gilbert,  Gilbard,  Gilberd,  Geoffrey, 
372-374. 

,  Henry,  241,  432,  518. 

,  .  .  . . ,  verderer  of  Clarendon 

forest,   16. 

,  John,   344. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  bishop  of  Bangor,  am- 
bassador to  the  pope,   69. 

,    .  . . . ,   bishop   of   Hereford, 

436,  458. 

,  Simon,  parson  of  St.  Marga- 
ret, Norwich,  101. 

Gildeford.     See  Guildford. 

Gildeford,     Guldeford,     Gyldeford, 
Andrew  de,  47. 

, ,  of  Ealing,  215,  216. 

,  William  de,  73. 

Gildenmoredon.  See  Guilden  Mor- 
den. 

Gildesburgh,  Gildesborgh,  John, 
John  de,  238,  244,  334,  342, 
453,  458,  459,  464,  521. 

, ,  knight,  22. 

Giles,  John,  of  Fined  on,  154. 

Gillam,  Robert,  of  Kent,  230. 

Gille,  Gyle,  John,  214. 

,  Thomas  del,  276,  277. 

,  William,     searcher    in    the 

port  of  Plymouth,  9. 

Gillingham,  Gillyngham,  co.  Kent, 
206,  219,  280. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  219,  280. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


643 


Gillingham — cont. 

.Grange,    Grenclio    in,    206, 

219,  280. 
Gillyng,    Gvllvns;,    Richard    de,    64, 

279,  280. 
Gillyngham.     See  Gillingham. 
Gillyngham,    Richard    do,    Richard, 
219,  280. 

.. ,  Thomas  de,   280. 

Gilmyn,     Gylmyn,     Alico    wife    of 
Henry,  143. 

,  Henry,  143. 

,  John,  of  London,  smith,  337. 

,  Thomas,  clerk,  554. 

Gippesmere.     See  Gibsmere. 
Gippewic,  Gippewych.    See  Ipswich. 
Gippewych,  John,  of  London,  523. 
Girdelere,    Gnrdeler,     Robert,     167, 

442. 
Girerden,    John,    coroner   of  Essex, 

304. 
Gisburgh,  William  of  London,  230. 
Gisors,  John,  citizen  of  London,  207. 
Gissynges,     Gissynge,      Gissyngges, 
Gyssyng,     Thomas,     Thomas 
de,  knight,  276. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Norfolk.  429. 
Givendale,   Great,   co.   York,   Grim- 
thorpe,  Grymsthorp    Aecly\re 
in,  146. 
Glamorgan   in   Wales,    receiver   of, 

417. 
Glasseleye,   Thomas,   538. 
Glaser,    William,    of    Northampton, 

75. 
Glaston,  co.  Rutland,  fco  in,  24,  25. 
Glastonbury,  Glastyngbirs  [co. 
Somerset],  St.  Mary's  abbey, 
abbot  of,  229.  See  also  Mon- 
ynton,  Walter  de. 

,  .....  ....  and   convent  of, 

247,  258. 

,  . .  . .,  voidance  of,  147,  148. 

Glaumville,   John,   271. 
Glossary  : 

amobragiis,    406. 
avoerie,  418. 
bordurys,   509. 
bachins,  291. 
brocage,  54. 
caltrappes,    210. 
chieveti  yn,  -'>38. 
cordewane,    383. 
crocy,  10. 
(hikers.  381. 
ferdwito,   35,  479. 
ferlyHgB,  503. 
fichewite,   35. 
forstallum,  206. 


Glossary — cont. 
futwito,  479. 
grithbrich,  479. 
grossum,  319. 
haywanhvyk,  47. 
hen.rstinnnnus,  528. 
hiisum,  416. 
meses,    291. 
molmen,    510. 
penuncellum,  221. 
pipoudros,  417. 
rek,  season  of,  297. 
ecalingeria,  607. 
stottystablo,  509. 
warison,  178. 
Gloucester,  Gloucestre  [co.  Glouces- 
ter], 194. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

430. 

castle,  justices  to  deliver  gaol 

of,  209. 

,  prison  in,  1 94. 

,  celebration    of    anniversary 

of  Edward  II  at,  470. 

,  Kingsholm,  la  Kyngeshome 

in.  33. 

,  St.  Peter's  abbey,  abbot  of, 

276. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  and   convent  of, 

269. 
Gloucester,  honour  of,  533. 
Gloucester,    county   of,     228,     282, 
329,  445,  456,  462. 

,  coroners  of,  49,  158,  497. 

,  dearness  of  corn  in,  324,  325. 

escheators  in.     See  Brugge, 

Edmund  atte ;  Hampton, 
John  de ;  Luttoloye,  Philip 
de  ;  Roes,  John  ap  ;  Ser- 
geaunt,  John  ;  Waloys,  Ralph. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  276. 

,  knights  of  the  sliire  of,  429, 

536. 

,  sheriff  of,  49,  158,  181,  194, 

209,  285,   324,  497. 

,  taxation  in,   206. 

Gloucestre,  John  de,  prior  of  Llan- 

thony,  151. 
Glover.  Glovero,  John,  of  Barton,  of 
Lincolnshire,  445. 

Richard,  armourer,  313. 

Robert,   •'!:!,.». 

Glynde,  Nicholas,  358. 

Glynton.    William    de,    Bubdean    of 

Salisbury,  367. 
Gnateshale.     Bee  Knattislmll. 
Gobions  in  Greal  Leighs,  <•(>.  E 

manor  of,  453,  455. 
Gobyon,  Gobyoun,   [vo,   coroner  of 
Northampton,  137. 


i,i:\i:i:.\l    index. 


Gobyon — cont. 

Thomas,  knight,  22. 

aiming,  Godahnyng,  oo.  Surrey, 
libertiee  of  men  of,  •"i'1.'. 
Godard.  John,  of  Essex,  SO. 
Richard,    ' 

Qodeohep,  Henry,  of  London,  279. 

Qodefray.     -       1 1  dfrey. 

Qodeson.     >•  •  * todson. 

Godot.  Thomas, 

Godfrey.  Qodefray,  John,  214.  215. 

master   of    the    barge 

of  Bristol,  75. 

of  Haverhill.  98. 

Codington.  Godyngton  [co.  Oxford], 
manor  of,  2. 

Godmanchcster.  Gunicstro.  co. Hunt- 
in  lti Ion.    St. 

Walter  vicar  of.  84. 

Godrnorsharn  [oo.  Kent],  parson  of. 
See  Xewe.  Thomas. 

Godmund    [in    Kendal],    co.    West- 
moreland, fee  in,  499. 

Oodmund.   Thomas,    40!). 

Godson.  Godeson,  Nicholas,  358. 

Robert,  of  Branston,  534. 

Godstow  [in  Wolvercote.  co.  Oxford], 
abbess  and  convent  of,  253. 

Godwyne.     See   Goodwyne. 

Godyhold,  John,  433. 

Godyngton.     See  Godington. 

Godythestre.     See  Easter. 

Golafre.  Golofre,  John,  knight,  217, 
355,  432,   528. 

Golborne,   Goldeburne,   co.   Lancas- 
ter, 31. 

gold,  mines  of.  in  Ireland,  312,  355. 

,  prohibition  of  eloignment  of, 

202. 

,  vessels  of,  113. 

Goldangre.     See  Goldhanger. 

Goldcliff,  Goldcleve  [co.  Monmouth], 
prior  and  convent  of,  247. 

Goldeburne.     See  Golborne. 

Goldeburne,  Adam  de,  31. 

Goldecote.     See  Goldicote. 

Goldene,  William,  clerk,  437. 

Goldestone.     See  Goldston. 

Goldhanger,    Goldangre,   co.    Essex, 
179. 

Goldicote,   Goldecote  [in  Aldermin- 
ster],  co.  Worcester,  455,  461. 

Goldmyth,  Hugh,  505. 

Goldory,  John,  burgess  of  Reading 
in  parliament,  430. 

Goldsmith.     See  Goldmyth. 

Goldston,  Goldestone,  John,  105. 
,  Thomas,  of  Ware,  282. 

Goldyng,  John,  259. 

, ,  the  elder,  250. 


Goldvnehnm.    Ooldvnpton.    Alexan- 
der, knight,  432,  518. 

Thomas   son   of   John   do, 

knight,  225. 

Golofre.    Bet  Golafre. 

Gome,  Thomas,  ship's  yeoman,  59. 

Of.  Cr«ne. 

Gomes.  Fernando.  529. 

,  John.  529. 

Gomfrav.  Gounfray,  Richard,  clerk, 
♦  •  240. 

Thomas,  clerk,  218. 

Gone,  Thomas,  104. 

Cf.  Gome. 

Gonowardesby.     See   Gunewardeby. 

Gonsales,  John,  529. 

Gontil.     See  Gentil. 

Good  Easter.     See  Easter. 

Goodwyne,     Godwyne,    Goodewyne, 
Bartholomew,   510. 

,  Geoffrey,  510. 

,  John,  510. 

,  Reynold,     510. 

,  Richard,  214. 

,  Robert,  354. 

Gore,  Richard  atte,  341. 

Gorges,  Theobald  de,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Southampton,  536. 

Gorleston,  Gorlyston,  co.  Suffolk,  246. 

,  manor  of,  322. 

Gorleton,  Ivo  de,  265. 

Gorlyston.     See  Gorleston. 

Gormyre,  Geoffrey  de,  222. 

Goshalm,  Robert,  435. 

gospels,  oath  upon  the,  338,  445, 
472. 

Goters,  Fernando,  529. 

,  John,   529. 

Goules,  Thomas,  chaplain,  238. 

Gounfray.     See  Gomfray. 

Gouns,  John,  542. 

Goumeye.     See  Gumay. 

Goushille,  Nicholas  de,  knight,  98. 

Gouytz,  Eleanor  wife  of  John,  226. 

,  John,  of  Crichel,  226. 

,  Richard  son  of  John,  226. 

Goverton  [in  Bleasby,  co.  Notting- 
ham], 195. 

,  deed  dated  at,  195. 

gowns,  academic,  180. 

Gowran  ?  Logheran  [co.  Kilkenny], 
Ireland,  46. 

Graa,  William,  citizen  of  York,  433. 

Grace,  Thomas,  clerk,  335,  336. 

Gracianus,  Peter,  of  London,  543. 

Grafton  Flyford,  Flevarth,  co. 
Worcester,  deed  dated  at, 
335. 

,  parson  of.      See  Blake, 

John, 


General  index. 


G45 


Grafton — cont. 

Manor,  co.  Worcester,  manor 

of.  121. 
Underwood     by     Craneford 

[co.  Northampton"].   360. 
Grafton.  John,  chaplain,  199. 

,  Richard  de,    548. 

,  Robert  de.  chaplain,  183. 

Graigose,   John,    124. 

Graillv.  Jolin  de,    captal   de   Buch, 

338. 
Grain,    Isle    of,    Grean,    Grene,    co. 

Kent,  219,  280. 
Gramary,  Elizabeth  wife  of  William, 

483. 

,  Henry,  knight,  566. 

,  William,  483. 

Grancestre,  James  de,  538,  539. 
Grandeset.     See  Grantchester. 
Grandessone,    Graunson,  Graunsoun, 

Grauntson,  Margaret  wife  of 

Tliomas,  knight,  292,   304. 
,  Thomas  de,  Thomas,  knight, 

186,  257,  258,  291,  481. 
Grand  on,  John  son  of  Luke  de,  203. 
Grandy,  Gunsalo,  master  of  la  Seint 

Marie  of  Olyver,  13. 
Graneby,  Amice,  468. 
Grange,     Grenche     in      Gillingham, 

GiUyngham,  co.  Kent,   chan- 
try at,  280. 

,  chapel  of,  206,  219,  280. 

,  manor  of,  206,  219,  280. 

Gransden,  Crandon,  cos.  Cambridge 

and  Huntingdon,  66. 
,  Great,     Great     Grantesdon, 

co.  Huntingdon,  532. 
Grantchester,    Grandeset,    Gransete 

[co.  Cambridge],  110. 

parson  of.     See  Baude,  John. 

Grantesdon.     See  Gransden. 
Grantham  [co.  Lincoln],  472,  527. 
Grantham,  Jolin  de,  299. 

,  Robert,  472. 

Grasmere,  Grysmer,  co.  Westmore- 
land, 144. 
,     Langdale,     Lageden     and 

Loughrigg,  Loghrygge  in,  144. 
Graudene.     See  Croydon. 
Graunson,    Graiuisoun,    Grauntson. 

See  Grandessone. 
Gravesend,  Graveshende,  co.  Kent, 

135,   167,  434,  435. 

,  deed  dated  at,  434. 

,  manor  of,  371. 

,      .  .  .  . ,     masters    of     works 

at.     See  Basynges,  William  ; 

Rochester,  John  prior  of. 
,  river    of,    searcher    in.     See 

Pope,  Richard. 


Gravesende,      Cicoly     daughter     of 

Thomas  do.  434,  436. 
,  Joan  daughter  of  Margaret 

cousin  of  Thomas  de,  434,  435. 

Thomas  de,  24. 

Graveshende.     See  Gravesend. 

Gray.     See  Grey. 

Graystok.     See  Groystoke. 

Grean.     See  Grain. 

Great  Island.     See  Island. 

Greenwich,    Estgrenewjcho,    Grone- 

wiche,  483. 
,  church      of      St.      Alphego, 

brotherhood  of  the  Holy  Cross 

in,  483. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chantry  in,  483. 

Greet  [in  Winchcombe,  co.  Glouces- 
ter], 558. 
Gregge,  John,  of  Middlesex,  544. 
Gregory  XI,  pope  of  Rome,  69. 

,  . .  .  .,  envoys  of,  69. 

,  .  .  .  .,  nuncio    and    collector 

of  his  chamber  in  England. 

See  Garnerii,  Arnald. 
Greindore,      Groyndore,     Jolin,     of 

Abinghall.  445. 

,  Ralph,  of  Mitcheldean,  445. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  456. 

Grenacres,  Richard,  knight,  386. 

,  Robert,  knight,  386. 

Grenche.     See   Grange. 

Grendon,  co.  Northampton,  fee  in, 

189. 
Grendon,  Ellis  do.  78. 

,  Henry,  tailor,  of  London,  261. 

Grene.     See  Grain. 
Grene,  Henry,  191,  192. 

, ,  knight,  425. 

,  John,  Jolm  de,  121,  122. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chaplain.   500. 

, ,  of  Grantham,  472. 

,  the  younger,  of    Hol- 

lingbourn,  206. 

,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  atte,  540. 

, knight  of  the  shire  of 

Rutland,    536. 
,  Richard,  Richard  do,  knight, 

L97,  2-2-2.  366. 

, ,  of   Foxton,  200. 

,  Roger,   chaplain.    117. 

Thomas,   knight,   189. 

Grenohullo.     Sve   Grenhille. 
Greneville,  Theobald  do,  308. 
<  In  oewiohe.     See   Greenwich. 
Grenfeld,  Robert  (U\  327. 
Grenham,  Nicholas  de,  dork.  si. 
( trenhille,  Grenehulle,  John  de,  par- 
ti (,|   Stoney  Stanton.  361. 
Thomas    de,    eecheator    in 

Nottingliaiualiiio,  470. 


646 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


■  \  e,  Roger  de,  Eta 

of     Leiot  iterahire, 

53. 

William  de,  clerk.  1 10. 

bweU,   Thomas  de,   oolleotoi  of 

subsidy  on  cloth  in  Lincoln- 
shire,   Rutland,    Notts    and 

Derbyshire,    42. 
Grovillc  John  de,  23. 
Grey.      Cray.      Bartholomew      do, 

knight,  son  of  John  do.   148. 
Henry,    of    Bhirland,    191. 

1  92. 
Jolindo,  of  Rothorfiold  Gn 

202. 
,  knight,  148, 149, 

1 55. 
Margaret  wifo  of  Roger  de, 

knight,  175,  177. 
,  Maud  wifo  of  John  de,  148, 

1  55. 

,  Philip,  of  Langford,  107. 

Philippe   wife   of   Bartholo- 
mew de.  148,  149. 

Reynold  de.    189. 

, ,  knight,    22. 

,  of  Ruthin,  knight,  244, 

487. 
Richard,  of  London,  skinner, 

342. 
,  Robert  son  of  John  de,  of 

Rotherfield     Greys,      knight, 

426. 
,  Thomas,   vicar   of   Moreton 

Corbet.  294. 
Greyndore.     See  Greindore. 
Greystoke,  Graystoke  [co.  Cumber- 
land], barony  of,  2G. 
,  Ralph  son  of  William  baron 

of,   20,   21,    422. 

,  William  baron  of,  26,  422. 

Grimsby,    Grvmesby    [co.    Lincoln], 

451,  508,  509. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

429. 

,  searchers  in  port  of,  14. 

Grimston,   Grymeston,  co.  Norfolk, 

deed  dated  at,  227. 

,  manor  of,  227. 

Grimthorpe,  Grymsthorp  Acclyve  [in 

Great   Givendale],   co.   York, 

146. 
Groby    [in    Ratby,    co.    Leicester], 

Ferrers  of,  36,  492. 
Groffan,  Richard,  clerk,  207. 
Gronger,  Adam,  510. 
Groos,  William,  burgess  of  Derby  in 

parliament,  537. 
Grove,  Giles  atte,  271. 


Grov.K,  Grovels  forest  [co.  Wilts], 

vendors    of    underwood    in. 
w  \  deford,  John  ;    Wys- 

dom,  Thorn 
Qrowelle,  John,  ohaplain  of  chantry 

at  West  Ness,  899. 
GrandesweU,    Robert,  clork,  531. 
Qryffyn,   toe,  oi   Barpham,  499. 
Qrymbaud,     Nicholas      cousin     of 

William,  230. 
Grymbaudes    [in    1  )iddington],    co. 

Huntingdon,  manor  of,  230. 
Grymelford.     See  Crymelford. 
Grymesby.     See  Grimsby. 
Grymesby,  John  de,  of  Hull,  273,  274. 
,  Peter  de,   guardian   of   the 

peace  and  justice  in  Kingston 

upon  Hull,  465. 
,  Thomas  de,  parson  of  Long 

Melford,  93. 
Grymescroft,  Roger  de,  87. 
Grymstede,  Thomas  de,  449. 
Grymoston.     See  Grimston. 
Grymeston,  John,  of  London,  79. 
Grymsthorp.     See   Grimthorpe. 
Grynford,  John,  213. 
Grysmer.     See  Grasmere. 
Guarnerius.     See  Garnerii. 
Gubbe,  Walter,   117. 
Guerande,  Garrant,  Garraut  [France, 

dep.     Loire-Inferieure],    men 

of,  417,  418,  489,  490. 
Guernsey,  Gerneseye,  alien  priories 

in,  496. 

,  destruction  of  mills  in,  413. 

,  keeper   of.       See   Calveley, 

Hugh  de. 
,  receiver    and   apprower   of. 

See  Appleby,  Thomas  de. 

,  rolLs  of  controllers  of,  413. 

Guienne,  Guyen  [France],  254. 
Guilden  Morden,  Gildenmoredon  [co. 

Cambridge],  manor  of,  518. 
Guildford,  Gildeford,  Guldeford  [co. 

Surrey],  32,  266. 

,  assize  at,  274. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

430,  537. 

castle,  prison  of,  501. 

,  deed  dated  at,  73. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  147. 

,  ordinance  made  at,  46,  298, 

311. 
Guines,  Guynes  [France,  dep.  Pas-de- 
Calais],  captain  of.     See  Hur- 

leston,  John  de. 
Guisborough,    co.    York,    Tocketts, 

Toncotes  in,  499. 
Guide,  Thomas,  of  Hulcote,  540. 
Guldeford.    See  Gildeford,  Guildford. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


647 


Gulden,   Roger,   271. 
Gunnemere,  Alexander,  510. 

Hugh,  510. 

Gunewardeby,  Gonowardesby,  Gun- 

wardeby,      Alice      wife      of 

Xicholas  de,   77. 

,  John  do,  222. 

,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  77. 

of  Cuhvorth,  72. 

Guniestre.     See  Godmanchester. 
Gunthorp,  William  de,  treasurer  of 

Calais,  323. 
Gunton,  co.  Suffolk,  24(5. 
Gunton,  Simon  de,  coroner  of  King's 

Lynn,  297. 
Gunwarcleby.     See  Gunewardeby. 
Guphay,  Walter,   87. 
Gurdoler.     See  Girdelere. 
Gurnay,    Gourneye,    Edmund,    220, 

232. 
,  John,    John   de,    knight,    of 

Somerset,  83. 

,  Ralph,  510. 

Gutior,  John,  king's  clerk,  dean  of 

Segovia,  416. 
Guyen.     Sez  Guienne. 
Guynes.     See  Guines. 
Gwynionydd.    Guynyonuth,    Gwyn- 

yonuth,    co.    Cardigan,    com- 
mote of,  406,  407. 
Gy,  Gye,  Robert,  78,  84. 
Gybboun,   Gyboun.     See  Giboun. 
Gyby,  Philip,  constable  and  steward 

of  Kilgerran  castle,  508. 
Gyddyng.  Ralph,   burgess  of  Hunt- 
ingdon in  parliament,  430. 

Cf.  Gedvng. 

Gydyhalle.     See  Gidea  Hall. 
Gydyon,  Avice  wife  of  John,  143. 

,  John,   143. 

Gye.     See  Gy. 

Gyffard.     See  Giffard. 

Gyke,  Peter,  of  Rarton  on  Humber, 

clerk,  451. 
Gyldeford.     See  Gildeford. 
Gyle.     See  Gille. 
Gyllyng.     See    Gillyng. 
Gylmyn.     See   Gilmyn. 
Gynes,  Geyix-s.  Micowifeof  John,  64. 

John,  64. 

,  Thomas  cousin  of  John,  64. 

Gyneye,  John,  246. 
Gyng.     See  Mountnessing. 
Gynge  Puelle.     See  Fouchers. 
Gyngeafold.     See  Kyngesfold. 
Qyppewich,    Gyppewych.     See   [ps- 

wich. 
Gyppynge  teuton.     See  Newton. 
Gys,  William,  of  Salisbury,  merchant, 

13. 


Gysburne.  John  di>.  guardian  of  tho 
peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  York,  554.' 

William,  ~>~>3. 

Gyselyn,  Peter,  291. 

Cf.  Gascelyn. 

Gyssyng.     See    Gisj-nges. 


H 


Hacche.     See  Hatch. 

Hackleton,    Haclynton,     Hakelton, 

Haklynton    [in    Piddington], 

co.  Northampton,  fee  in,  189. 

,  manor  of,  228. 

Hackney,  Hakeneye,  co.  Middlesex, 

108,  200,  201. 
,  parson   of.     See  Middloton, 

Thomas  de. 
Haclynton.     See  Hackloton. 
Hacune,  John,  290. 
Haddele.      See     Hadle,      Hadleigh, 

Hadley. 
Haddeleye.     See  Hadle. 
Haddescou.     See  Haddiscoe. 
Haddestoke.     See  Hadstock. 
Haddiscoe,  Haddescou,  co.  Norfolk, 

manor  of,  234. 
Haddlesey,    Hathelsay    [co.    York], 

chantry  at,  59. 

,  manor  of,  59. 

,  Wost,  Westhathelsay,  59. 

Haddon,     East,     Esthaddon,      co. 

Northampton,       manor       of, 

498. 
,     West.     Westhaddon,      co. 

Northampton,  315. 
I  [adelee.     See  Hadle. 
I  [adelegh.     See  Hadleigh. 
Hadgor,  Robert,  510. 
Hadle,    Haddele.    Haddeleye,    Hade- 
lee,   Hadlee,   John,   John  de, 

259,    510. 
pepperer,  of   London, 

522. 
Sheriff  of  London,  325. 

Richard,    Richard   de,   236, 

510. 
Hadleigh,  Haddele,  co.  Essex,  39. 

Rousande  marsh  in.  38. 

Badelegh,     lladkgh     [co. 

Suffolk],  82,  139. 

,   .....  deed   dated   ul,    I 

, fee  in,  24,  25. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Hadh\v.   Haddele  [ in   l.amlxniiii. 

Berks!  manor  of,  ill.  L42. 
[in   Wellington,   oo.    Balop], 

Hadstoek,   Haddestoke,  co.  Ef^ 

904 
Hadyngton.    Sea   Addington. 
Hagboume,    Hakeboume,    Robert, 

78.  253. 
1 1  iggeieg  e,  Henry,  522. 

ham.     See  Haugham. 
II  i.'liara.  Eleanor  mother  of  Robert 

de,  73. 

,  Robort  de,  knight,  73. 

son  of  Robert  de,   73. 

Cf.  Hevhom. 

Haglie,  Jolin  de.  73.  '229. 

Thomas  de.  73.  229,  327. 

Hakobourne.     See  Hagbourne. 
Hakelton.     See    Hackleton. 
Hakeluyt.  William,  149,  150. 
Hakeney,  Richard,  556. 
JlaUeneye.     See  Hackney. 
Hakeston.     See  Hasketon. 
Haket,  Thomas,  110. 
Hakewell.     See  Hawkwell. 
Haklynton.     See  Hackleton. 
Halberton,    co.    Devon,    Oburnford, 

Wobemeford  in,  331,  332. 
Halden,  Haldan.  Haldenne,  William, 

William  de,  67,  101,  200,  206, 

219,  331,  362,  528. 
,  .  . . . ,  alderman  of   London, 

263. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  133, 

253,  256. 
Hale,  Great,  co.  Lincoln,  494. 
Hale,  Jolin,  John  atte,  escheator  in 

Dorset,   184,    377,    384,    390, 

391,  416. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Somerset,  1 84, 

193,  291,  303,  306,  384,  416. 

, ,  knight,  460,  550. 

,  ....  son  of  Lawrence  atte, 

465. 

,  Lawrence  atte,  465. 

Of.  Halle. 

Hales,  Robert  de,  prior  of  the  hos- 
pital of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem 

in  England,  26,  27,  297,  330. 
,  . . . . ,  .....  admiral    of    the 

fleet  to   the  westward,    495, 

506,  555. 

Cf.  Halys, 

Halewelker.     See  Haliwellker. 
Halewey,  Ralph,  190,  191. 
Halewyk.     See  Halwick. 
Halfide.     See  Alfide. 
Halghelee.     See   Hawley. 
Halghstowe.     See  Halstow. 


Heighten.     >'■  •    Hallaton. 
Heighten,  Riobard  de,  of  Lancashire 
69. 

Cf.  Hal  u«hton. 

Haliday,  John,  Bkmner,  of  London, 
62. 

I  laliok.      Sec  llolvoaks. 
Haliwellker.  Halewelker  in   the  foe 

of  Matlock,  co.  Derby,  68,  72. 
Halland,  Hallond  [in  East  Hoatldy 

and    Laughton],    co.    Sussex, 

420. 
Hallaton,     Halghton,     Haloughton 

[co.  Leicester],  75,  76,  257. 
Hallatrow,  Haluetre  [in  High  Little- 
ton],  co.    Somerset,   fees  in, 

307. 
Halle,  Hugh  atte,  156. 

,  John  atte,  253,  256,  453. 

.Richard   de,   Richard,    101, 

530,  531. 
,  William     atte,     of     Sussex, 

235. 

Cf.  Hale. 

Hailing,  Hallyng,  co.  Kent,  97. 
Hallingbury,      Little,     Hallingbery, 

Neville,    Little    Halyngbury, 

co.  Essex,  366. 
,  .....  parson  of.     See  Mar- 

tyn,  William. 
Hallond.     See  Halland. 
Halltoft  End    [in   Freistonl  ?   Hipt- 

tofthalle  in  Toft,  co.  Lincoln, 

477. 

,  manor  of,  395. 

Hallu,    Stephen,    parson    of    Wim- 

borne  St.  Giles,  204. 

Cf.  Hellawe,  Hellew. 

Hallyng.     See  Hailing. 
Haloughton.     See  Hallaton. 
Halse,  co.  Somerset,  chantry  at,  6. 
,  lord      of.        See     Arundel, 

Roger. 

,  manor  of,  6. 

Halsham  [co.  York],  465,  555. 
Halstead,     Halstede     [co.     Essex], 

highway    between    Braintree 

and,  30. 
Halstede,  Alice,  545. 
Halstow,     High,     Halghstowe     [co. 

Kent],  parson  of.     See  Gates, 

Richard. 
Halteclo,  John  de,  6. 
Haltham,  John  de,  clerk,  105. 
Halton,  William  de,  chaplain,  165. 
Haltwhistle,    co.    Northumberland, 

Henshaw,     Henteshalgh     in, 

507. 
Haluetre.     See  Hallatrow. 
Halughton,  William  de,  430. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


G49 


Halughton — cont. 

Cf.  Halghton. 

Halweston,  Nicholas  do.  24. 
Halwick.      Halewyk      [in       Friern 

Barnet],  co.  Middlesex,  manor 
of,  266. 

Halyng,  Thomas,  218. 

Halyngbury.     See    Hallingbury. 

Halyok.     See  Holyoaks. 

Halys,  Steplien  de.  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Norfolk,  537. 

Cf.  Hales. 

Ham,  East,  Estham,  Esthamme,  co. 
Essex,  82,  108,  201,  204. 

,     West,     Westham,      West- 

hamme,  co.  Essex,  82,  204. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  83. 

Hambledon,  Hamelden  [co.  Buck- 
ingham],  553. 

,  weirs,  mills  etc.  in,   553. 

Hamble  le  Rice,  Hamel  [co.  Hants], 
port  of,  290. 

Hambury,  John,  Jolin  de,  escheator 
in  Worcestershire,  31, 121, 175. 

Hamel.     See  Hamble. 

Hamelak.     See  Helmsley. 

Hamelden.     See   Hambledon. 

HameDiamstede.  See  Hemel  Hemp- 
stead. 

Hameli.     See  Hamely. 

Hamelsate.     See  Ambleside. 

Hamely,  Hameli,  Jolin,  clerk,  204. 

, ,  knight,    62,    460. 

,  .....  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Dorset,  429,  536. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John,  62. 

Hamebyn,  Joan  wife  of  John,  4. 

,  Jolin,  4. 

,  Maud    Pypard    wife   of    Os- 

bert,  372,  373,  374. 

,  Osbert.  372,  373,  374. 

Hamenassh,  Hugh,  vintner,  of  Lon- 
don, 460. 

Hamerton,  co.  Huntingdon,  42,  43. 

Hamme,  Walter,  288,  289. 

Hamond,  Henry,   531. 

,  Kobert,    344. 

Hamperden,  Amberden  [in  Debden], 
co.  Essex,  fee  in.  24. 

Hampnett.     See   Easthampnet. 

Hampstead  Norris,  Hampstede 
^  Ferrers,  co.  Berks,  manor  of, 
395. 

Hampstode.  See  Hampstead,  Hemp- 
stead. 

Hampsterloy,  Elizabeth  (de  Staun- 
ton) wife  ol    William  do,   193. 

,  William   de,    193. 

Hampton,  co.  Middlosox,  manor  of, 
624. 


Hampton,  John  de,  escheator  in 
Gloucestershire,   478. 

,  .....  ....  in  Herefordsliire, 

278. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ....  in   Salop,   478. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in    Staffordshire, 

478. 

,  Kichard,    Richard   de,    485, 

486. 

,  esquire,  of  Stafford- 
shire, 524. 

,  Thomas,  of  Hampshire,  238. 

,  palfreyman,  520. 

Hamstede.     See  Hempstead. 

Hamyngfeld.     See     Hanningfield. 

Hanampstede,  Thomas,  235. 

,    .  .  . . ,    citizen    of    London, 

204. 

Hanecok,  John,  196. 

Hanefeld.     See   Henfield. 

Haneleye.     See  Hanley. 

Hanemere,  Hannemere,  Hannymere, 
Hennemer.  David  de,  David, 
79,  282,   321. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Oxford,  340. 

,  .  .  . . ,  j  ustice    of    assize    in 

Oxfordshire,  150. 

,  .....  ....  in    Staffordshire, 

209. 

,  .....  justice  to  deliver  gaol 

of    Gloucester   castle,    209. 

Hanewell,  John,  chaplain,  363. 

Hanoworth.     See  Han  worth. 

Hangleton,  Hangelton,  co.  Sussex, 
manor  of,  309. 

Hangre,  Kobert  atte,  109. 

Haniton.     See  Hannington. 

Hanley  Castle,  Haneleye.  co.  Wor- 
cester, castle  of,  306. 

,  manor  of,    306,    307. 

Hanley,  Hanle,  John,  328. 

Hannemere.     See    Hanemere. 

Hanneson,   Richard,   505. 

Hanneworth,  Hugh  de.  494.  495. 

Hannov.  hi  am'.  John,  John  de.  265. 

, knight,  247. 

HanniiHi field.  East,  Esthanyngfeld, 
oo.  Essex,  manor  of ,  187.  188, 
189. 

South,    South    Hanyn^feld, 

Southanyngfeld,  co.  Essox, 
190. 

,  .....manor    of,    187,    188, 

L89. 

West.    West    Hamyngfeld, 

Westhanyngfeld,  co.  Es.m'\, 
187,  188,    L89. 

,  dood  dated  at,  1 96. 


GENERAL     IM»i:\. 


Hannington  1  [aniton,Hanyngton, 

mpton,feesin,]  89,  190. 
Hannymen       S      Honomere. 
Hannynyok.     S»    Vn-hunoo. 

•  so  Tom  ii  I  Ijviiso  in  Almain 
[( tarrnany  |.  merchants of, 

oworth,  Haneworth,  oo.  Middle- 
Bex,  a.i\  m.\  son  of, 

manor  of,  5  19. 

Hum-.     8(  ■    I  [anney. 
HanygfekL,   William,    62. 
Hanyngfeld.     ><<   I [anningfield. 
Hanyngton.     Sei    Bannington, 
Haras,    William,    burgess   of   New- 

■  If  upon  T\  in-.  •'>.">:.'. 
Harborough  Hall,  Uardebourghalle, 

Bardeburghalle,  1  [erdebourg- 

Jialle  in  Messing,  co.    E> 
•t. 

manor  of.  240. 

harboarers,  replevin  of,  248. 
Harby,     Hardeby,     Herdeby,     co. 

Not  tin-)  inin,   396,   397. 
Harcla.  Andrew  de,  4Sii. 
,  adhorent  of  the  Scots, 

313. 
Harcourt,  Haroconrt,  Maud  wife  of 

Thomas  de,  30. 
,  Thomas.  Thomas  de,  knight, 

29. 
,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Oxford,  429. 
Hardebourghalle,       Hardoburghalle. 

See  Harborough  Hall. 
Hardeby.     See  Harby. 
Hardekyn,  Robert.  350. 
Hardelagh.     See  Harlech. 
Hardinsstone,     Hardyngeston ,     co. 

Northampton,    fee    in,     189. 
Hardington  Mandevillo,  Hardyngton 

by    Estcoker,    co.    Somerset, 

advowson  of,  168. 
Hardwell,    Hordwello    [in   Compton 

Beaucliamp],       co.       Berks, 

manor  of,  356. 
Hardwick,  Herd\\yk,  co.  Bucks,  245. 
,  Herdewyk  [co.  Cambridge], 

69. 

,  deed  dated  at.  69. 

,  Herdwvk,  co.  Northampton, 

fee  in,  190. 
,  Weedon,     Wedon    in, 

244,  245. 
,  Kytee,   Herdewjrk   [in  Lea- 
mington Hastings],  co.  War- 
wick, 121,  122. 
Hardv,  Henry,  221. 

..,  John,   529. 

,  . . .  . ,  keeper  of   St.   Frides- 

wide's  priory,   Oxford,   55. 


I  lank.  .Inhn — cotit. 

i ui  reliant   of    handrc- 

.  312,  320. 

Richard    son    of    Jolin,    of 

Bolwyk,    476. 

Sampson,    of    Northumbor- 

land,  4S.  49. 
Eardyng,  John,  3">o. 

Sampson,  266,  330. 

,  Thomas,  350. 

,  .  . . .,  of  Manningtroe,   199. 

William,  C3. 

Hardyngeston.     See    Hardingstone. 
Hardyngton.     See  Hardington. 
Haroconrt.     See   Harcourt. 
Harofield,     Herofeld,     Herfeld,     co. 
Middlesex,  219,  343,  344. 

,  dcods  dated  at,  343,  344. 

,  placos  named  in,  344. 

hares,  221. 

Harewe.     See  Harrow. 
Harewoll,  Harwell,  John,  bishop  of 
Bath    and    Wells,    105,    132, 
368,  446,  453,  455,  521. 

,  Roger,   knight  of  the  shiro 

of  Warwick,  428. 
,  William,    parson    of    Pens- 
hurst,    109,   201. 
Harewode,   John,  of  London,  mar- 

chal,  344. 
Harewolde.     See  Harrold. 
Harlam,  Hugh  de,  171. 
Harlaxton,  Harliston  [co.  Lincoln], 

472. 
Harlay,   John  de,    under   bailiff   of 

Kiftsgato   hundred,   276. 
Harlech,  Hardelagh  castle  [co.  Mer- 
ioneth], 405,  406. 
Harleston,     Herlaston,     Herleston, 
Jolm  de,  316. 

, ,  clerk,  334. 

,  Roger,  Roger  de,  116,  117, 

228,  250,  360,  547. 

,  . .  . .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cambridge,  429. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Cambridge,  61 . 

Harlestone,  co.  Northampton,  146. 
Harleton.     See  Harlton. 
Harley  [co.  Salop],  528. 
Harling,   East,   Estherlyng,   Esther- 
lyngg,  co.  Norfolk,  246. 

,  .  .  .  .,  advowson  of,  246. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  246. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  246. 

,  West,     Westherlyngg    [co. 

Norfolk],     parson     of.     See 
Swafham,  Robert  de. 
Harlington,  Herdyngton,  co.  Middle- 
sex, 68. 
Harliston.     See   Harlaxton. 


<  MINERAL    INDEX. 


651 


Harlow,  Herlawe.  co.  Essex,  hundred 

of,  227,  228. 
Harlton.   Harleton.   co.   Cambridge, 

66,  228,  460. 

,  advowson  of,  360. 

manor  of,   360. 

Harlyng,  Herlvng,  Herlvneer.   John 

de,  John.  246,  247,  464. 

, esquire,  280. 

,  Walter,   222. 

Harnham,  Hernham,  Oliver,  Oliver 

de,  241,  432,  518,  528. 
,  .  .  . .,  escheator     in     Berks, 

25,  38,  52,  120,  141,  147,  153, 

174,  188,  189,  301. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....    in  Hants,  38,  55, 

124,  147,  163,  176,  377. 
,  . . . . ,  ....  in      Oxfordshire, 

28,39.125,131,  147,155,  157, 

167,  293,  320. 
, , in  Wilts,  25,  31, 

120,  124,  130,  132,  141,  147. 

153,  154,  184,  185,  189,  295, 

372. 
Harolf,  Geoffrey,  183. 
Harpedene,  Maud  wife  of  Gilbert  de, 

68. 
Harpham  [co.  York],  499. 
Harpley,     Harplee     [co.     Norfolk], 

parson    of.     See    Wolterton, 

John  de. 
Harptree,    East,    Estharpetre,     co. 

Somerset,  fees  in,  307. 
Harries,  Agnes,  of  Yardley,  daughter 

of  Henry  de  Tulford,  346. 
Harringay,     Haryngeay,     Harynge- 

seye  [in  Hornsev],  co.  Middle- 
sex, 256,  357. 
Harringworth,     Haryngworth,     co. 

Northampton,  fee  in,  190. 

,  Zouche  of,  519. 

Harrold,Harewolde[co.Bedford],244. 
Harrow,  Harewe,  co.  Middlesex.  116. 

,  road  from  Acton  to,  551. 

,  vicar  of.       See  Ryseburgh, 

John. 

,  Uxendon,  Woxindon  in,  357. 

Harry,  John,  of  Essex,  225. 

Cf.  Herry. 

Harsyk,  John,  knight,  194. 
Hartburn,  Hertbume,  co.  Northum- 
berland, vicar  of.     See  Auke- 

land,  Robert  do. 
,   East    Shaftoe,    Schaitowe, 

Shafthow  in,  35. 
Ilarting,  Hertyng  [co.  Sussex],  80. 
Hartington,  Hertvngdon,  co.  Derby, 

536. 
Hartlobury,   co.   Worcester,   Wares- 
ley  in,  255. 


Hartlip,     Herclepe,    Hertlopo,     co. 

Kent,  206,  219. 
Hartside    [by    Melberley]  ?    Hertes- 

heved,  co.  Cumberland,  18. 
Harty,  Herteye,  co.  Kent.  176. 
Harwedon,  Jolm,  knight  of  the  shire 

of  Huntingdon,  536. 

Cf.  Haurdon. 

Harwell.     See  Harowell. 

Harwich,  Herwich  [co.  Essex],  ship 

ol,  7o. 
Haryngby.     See  Herringby. 
Haryngeay,  Haryngeseye.     See  Har- 
ringay. 
Haryngton,  Isabel  wife  of  John  de, 

knight,  494. 

.Robert   de,   justice,    299. 

,  ....  son  of  John  do,  501. 

,  Thomas  do,  24. 

Haryngworth.     See  Harringworth. 
Haselbech,  Richard,  perpetual  vicar 

of  Wimbish,  259. 
Haselbury.     See  Hazelbury. 
Haselden,  Thomas  do,  of  Wakefield, 

517,  518. 
Haskoton,    Hakeston,    co.     Suffolk, 

Thorpe  Hall,  Thorp  in,  24. 
Hastang,    Joan   daughter   of   Jolm, 

121. 

,  John,  121,  122. 

,  Maud  (de  Stafford)  daughter 

of  John,  121,  122. 
Hastynges,  Hastyng,  Anne,  countess 

of  Pembroke,  dame  de  Bor- 

geveny  and  de  Mauny,   333, 

443,  449. 
,  ....   wife  of  John  de,  earl 

of  Pembroke,   135,  288,   311, 

321,  387,  499. 
,••••,     . . . . ,     . . . . ,    assign- 
ment of  dower  to.  187-193. 

,  Hugh  de,  knight,  365,  451. 

,  John  de,  earl  of  Pembroke, 

135,  207,  232,  248,  249,  286, 

321,  386,  387,  433,  487,  508, 

547. 
, lord  of  Wexford 

and  Abergavonny.  286,  287. 
passage    of,     to 

Gascony,  287. 
,  John  son  of  John  de.  earl  of 

Pembroke,  248,  249,  386,  448, 

540. 

Ralph  de,  L90,  191. 

Hatch  Beauchamp,    Hacche  Bean* 

champ,  co.  Somerset,  lady  of. 

See  TurlxTvilli'.  Cicely  d<>. 
Hatfield,  Bishops  Batfeld,  Batfeld, 

co   Hertford,  89,  92,289,242, 

248,  447,  531. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Hatfield,  t>>.  Hertford-  eonf. 

deeds  dated  at,  89,  92. 

(la-N'lvnsiuiil  I  lolwcll, 

Hofewell  in,  446,   i  IT.  531. 
Haytfeld,  oo.  STork,  424 

vicar  of.      >'<<   ( lUStOn, 

Kolfl't    (!t\ 

Dunscroft,   Duncrofl 

in.  424. 
Broadoak,  HatiVld  Roiz,  oo. 

I       \.  237. 
forest   of.    election   of 

verderer  of,  497. 

l'evercl.  Hat  feld  IVven  1.  CO. 

I  .  foe     of     making 

two  suits  yearly  at  court  of, 
169. 
Hatfield,  Hatfeld,  Haytfeld.  Dionysia 
wife  of  Richard  de,  4G3. 

,  John  de,  alias  Jolin  Moun- 

•i.    463. 

king's  clerk,   33. 

, of  Yorkshire,   332. 

,  Richard  de.  4G3. 

,  Robert,  235,  401. 

,  . . . . ,  alderman   of   London, 

263. 

,  citizen  of  London.  204. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  de,  463. 

,  . .  . .,  bishop  of  Durham,  21, 

389,  401,  428. 

William     de.      coroner     of 

Buckinghamshire,    477. 
Hathelsay.     See   Haddlesey. 
Hathern,  co.  Leicester,  fee  in,  162. 
Hauberk.  Haweberk.  Agnes  mother 
of  Lawrence,  362. 

,  Lawrence,  468. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Rutland,  53C. 

son  of  Robert,  85,  361, 

362,  364. 
hauberks,  291. 

Haugham,  Hagham,  co.  Lincoln,  73. 
Hauke,  John  son  of  Jolm,  of  Strat- 
ford, 235,  236. 
Haukeswell,  Nicholas  de,  48. 
Haukyn,   Jolm,  the  king's  serjeant 
at  arms,  289. 

,  Robert,   182. 

,  Thomas,  76. 

Haul,  William,  274,  278. 
Haulay,    Hauley,    Robert,    esquire, 
337,  338,  339. 

, ,  knight,  71,  161. 

,  William  de,  knight,  76. 

Haunsard,  Robert,  431. 
Haurdon,  Henry,  chaplain,  550. 

Cf.  Harwedon. 

Hauringeseye.     See  Harringay. 


1  laut.x n.  William,  2 i. 
Hauton.     S«  lii'tnn. 
Hautryve.     Set  A.utryve. 
Haverfordwest,  Haverford  [oo.  Pem- 

broko],  steward  of  lordship  of, 

393. 
Haverhill,  HaverhuH,  Haveryll,  co. 

Suffolk,  98,  108,  201. 
parson     of.      See     Aylton, 

John  de. 
Havering    atte    Bower,    Haveryng, 

Saveryngge  atte  Boure,  co. 

Essex,    116,    332,    341,    365, 

461. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  464,  51 5. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,   397, 

40.5-408,  420,  421,  423,  465, 

466,471,511,512,519,520. 
,  manor   of,    keepers    of,    45, 

409,  479. 
,  .  . . . ,  letters  close  dated  at, 

418,  446,  517,  524. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  warren  of,  409. 

parson    of.      See    Parker, 

Walter. 
,  the  king's    privy    chamber 

at,  466. 
Haverlond,  Richard,  103. 
Haversham,  Henry,  241,  432,  518. 
Haveryll.     See  Haverhill. 
Haveryng.     See  Havering. 
Haveryng,  Nicholas,  15. 

,  Robert  de,  332,  341,  461. 

Haveryngge.     See  Havering. 
Haveryngton,  Robert  de,  500. 
Haweberk.     See  Hauberk. 
Hawkwell,  Hakewoll,  co.  Essex,  179. 
Hawley,   Halghelee  [in   Sutton  atte 

Hone],  co.   Kent,  manor  of, 

357,  435. 
Haxay,  William  de,  coroner  of  Lin- 
colnshire, 398. 
Haxston,  Richard,  66. 
Hay,  John  del,  knight,  216. 

,  .  .  .  .  le,  knight,  453. 

,  Peter   son   of   Thomas  del, 

422. 

,  Simon  dil,  551,  552. 

,  Thomas  del,  of  Spaldington, 

422. 
hav,  48. 

Haycroft,  William,  349,  357. 
,  .  . .  . ,  coroner   of   Wiltshire, 

302. 
Haydok,  Gilbert  de,  69. 
Haylesden.     See  Hellesdon. 
Hayling,  Haylyng  [co.  Hants],  prior 

and  convent  of,  63. 
Haym,  Hayme,  Joan  (de  Lutteleye 

daughter  of  Richard,  163. 


GENERAL  INDEX. 


G53 


HajTn — cont. 

,  Stephen,  55,  528. 

, citizen  of  Winchester, 

332. 
, merchant  of  Winches- 
ter, 461. 
Hayne,  Thomas,  king's  Serjeant,  115. 
Havsho.     See  Kavsho. 
Haytfeld.     See  Hatfield. 
Hay  ton,  Richard.  Richard  de,  84. 
,  . . .  . ,  canon    of    St.    Mary, 

Salisbury,  172. 
Hayward,  Heyward,  Thomas,  438. 

William,  71. 

Haywode,  Clemence  wif e  of  Thomas, 

548. 

,  John  son  of  Thomas,  548. 

,  Thomas.  548. 

,  Walter  de,  Walter,  85,  236, 

449,  459. 
Hazelbury,  Haselbury  [in  Box,  co. 

Wilts].  349. 
Headington,  Hedyngton,  co.  Oxford, 

manor  of.  farmer  of,  156.  394. 

See  also  Dammory,  Richard. 
Headley,  Hedele,  co.  Surrey,  4. 
Healaugh,  Helagh  [co.  York],  deed 

dated  at,  529. 
Heale,  la  Hyle  [in    Woodford],    co. 

Wilts,  manor  of,  260. 
Heathfield,Hethefeld,  co.  Sussex,  420. 
Hebben,  Agnes,  of  Yardley,  346. 
Hebregge.     See   Heybridge. 
Hechecote,  William,  of  Shalbourne, 

258. 
Heckington,  Hekyngton,  Hekynton, 

co.  Lincoln.  202,  494,  495. 
Heckmondw  ike.  Hekmundewyke  [co. 

York],  107. 
Heddington,  Hedynton,  Hodvnton, 

co.  Wilts,  86. 

,  deed  dated  at,  86. 

,  Kuteshous  in,  86. 

,  manor  of,  86. 

Hedele.     See  Headley. 
Hedon.  co.  York.  346,  440. 
Hedonflete.     See  Burstwick  Drain. 
Hedyngham,  John  do,  60,  51. 
,  .  . . .,  attorney  of  merchants 

of  Genoa,  33. 
Hedyngton.     Sec,  Headington. 
Hedynton.     See  Heddington. 
Heggo,  William  atte,  506,  606. 
coroner     of     Norfolk, 

127. 
Hoghham,  John,  clerk,  217. 
Hoghtrcdebury.     N     li<     tesbuzy. 
Heighley,     Helegh,      Heyleye     [in 

Audloy,  co.  Stafford],  Audloy 

of,  79,  80,  487. 


Hekmundewyke.      See    Hockmond- 

\\  ike. 
Hekyngton,  Hokynton.     See  Hock- 

ington. 
Helagh.    See  Healaugh. 
Helcote.     Set  Holcote. 
Holde.     Xicl  tolas,     of     Oxfordshire, 

353. 

Cf.  Hilde. 

Heldere,  John,  of  Braintree,  450. 
Heldhurst,  Thomas,  70. 
Helegh.     See  Heighley. 
Hellawe,  Richard,  clerk,  76. 

Cf.   Hallu.  Hellew. 

Hellesdon,     Hayleeden,     Hevlesdon 

[co.  Norfolk],    516. 

,  advowson  of,  515. 

,  deed  dated  at,  51 6. 

,  fee  in,  24,  25. 

,  manor  of,  515. 

Helleston.     See  Helston. 
Hellow,  John.  264. 

Cf.  Hallu,  Hellawe. 

Hellidon,  Helyden,  co.  Northampton, 

manor  of,  4.~>. 
Hehningham,      Helmengham,      co. 

Suffolk,  manor  of,  f>14. 
Holmsley,  Hamelak  [co.  York],  lord 

of.     Sec  Roos,  Thomas  de. 

,  Carlton.  Carleton  in,  164. 

Helpringham.     Helpryngham     [co. 

Lincoln],     parson     of.       See 

Kelby,  Robert. 
Helston,   Helleston   in   Kerrier,   co. 

Cronwall,  borough  of,  409. 

,  manor  of.   409. 

Heltonbacoun.     See  Hilton. 
Helyden.     See  Hellidon. 
Helyer,  John.  374.  ■ 
Helynges,  John  de,  161,  162. 
Helynton.     See  Hollington. 
Helyun,  Helyoun,  honour  of,  312. 
Heme]  Hempstead,  Hamelhamstede 

[co.  Hertford],  550. 
Hemenhale,  Ralph  <lc  24. 
Hemingford  Grey,  Hemyngford  Grey 

[co.  Huntingdon],  John  vicar 

of,  431. 
Hemington,  1  [emyngton  |  in  Locks 

ton],  co.  Leicester,  fee  in,  162. 
Hempstead,  Hamstede,  Hampstede, 

1  [em]  stede,  co.  Essex,  460. 

deed  dated  at,  45  I. 

manor   of,    116,    117.    203, 

223. 
Qemyngburgh,    Richard,   of    York- 
shire   .~>  17. 
Hemyngford.     See    Hemingford. 
I  [emyngford,  John,  •_,-"i<>. 
Hemyngton.    See  Hemington, 


GENERAL     ENDEX. 


Hemyngton,    Hugh,    of    Mod  bourn. 

M   - 

fO. 
11.  ml.-.     John,    diaper    Of     London. 

William.  247. 

Headsman,  Bimon,  •: 
Henfield,  Eanefeld,  oo.  Sussex,  127, 
420. 

l  U  iitiimi  on  the  Hill.  I  [enham  [co. 
Bbbbx],  deeds  dated  at,  457. 
645. 

1 1,  nhull  [in  Acton.  OO.  Clio-tor]. 
II.  nhull.  William  de,  568. 
Henley  upon  Thames  [OO.   Oxford], 
letters  close  dated    at.    117. 
SCO. 
Hennemer.     See  Hanomore. 
Hennv.  Henye.  oo.   Elssex,  225. 
Henry  III.  grant  of  liberties  by,  34. 
Henry  bang  of  Castile,  l'54. 
Henry  duke  of   Lancaster,  Blanche 
hifl  daughter.  48. 

earl  of  1  )erby,  48. 

justice    of     oyer     and 

terminer  of,  33.',. 
Henry.  Alt  fitz,  merchant  of  Bruges, 

12. 
Henrvson.  Henrysone,  son  of  Henry, 
Thomas,   of  Whaplode,    336, 
339. 

William,  of  Scotland,  263. 

Henshaw.     Henteshalgh     [in    Halt- 
whistle],  co.  North  umbcrland, 
manor  of,  507. 
Hensingham,  Hensyngham,  co.  Cum- 
berland, 53. 
Henteshalgh.     See  Henshaw. 
Henton.     See  Hinton. 
Henton,  William  de,  229. 

Cf.  Hynton. 

Hentonbluet.     See   Hinton. 
Henwyk,  John,  chaplain,  193. 
Henxteworth.  John  de,  319. 
Henye.     See  Henny. 
Hepton.     See  Hopton. 
Herbert,  Herberd,  Hereberd,   John 
son   of   William,    of    Fawler, 
425. 

Richard,  357. 

,  of  Fowler,  425. 

See  Fitz  Herberd. 

Herburv,  Henry,  citizen  of  London, 
465. 

,  . . .  . ,  vintner,    of     London, 

198. 
Herclepe.     See  Hartlip. 
Herde,  Agnes  wife  of  John  le,  441. 

,  John  le,  441. 

Herdebourghalle.     See    Harborough 
Hall. 


Herdeby.    See  Harby. 

Herdeby,  Geoffrey  do.  Austin  friar, 

master  in  t  heology,  502. 
Herdeston.     Set    rlerdeeton. 
Herdewike,     Herdewyk,     llorowyk, 

Eklmund,  122. 

John,  John  do.  'J17. 

,  guardian   of    tlie  peace 

and  ju^tieo  of  oyor  and  tor- 
minor  in  Coventry,  474. 

,  .  . .  . ,  ....  and  of  the  statu- 
tes of  Winchester,  Northamp- 
ton and  Westminster  in 
Coventry,  342. 

Herdewyk,  Herdwyk.  See  Hard- 
wick. 

Herdyngton.     See  Harlington. 

Hereberd.     See    Herbert. 

Herofeld.     See   HarofieM. 

Hereford  [co.  Hereford],  351,  522. 

,    bishop     of.      Sec     Gilbort, 

John. 

,  citizens   of,   in    parliament, 

430. 

,  dean  and  chapter  of,  171. 

Hereford,  countess  of.  See  Bohun, 
Joan  de. 

,  earl  of.  See  Bohun,  Hum- 
phrey de. 

Hereford,  county  of,  353,  426,  529. 

,  coroners  of,   30,  477. 

,  escheators   in.     See  Brugge, 

Edmund  atte ;  Hampton, 
John  de ;  Hurtesleye,  John 
de ;  Roes,  Jolin  ap ;  Ser- 
goaunt,  John ;  Waleys,  Ralph. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

536. 

,  sheriff  of,  30,  341,  477. 

,  taxation  in,   522. 

Hereford,  John  de,  3,  4. 

,  . . . . ,  of  Herefordshire,  522. 

Hereth,  John  de,  247. 

Hereward,  Herward,  John,  210,  471. 

,  Walter,  of  Kintbury,  337. 

,  William,  544. 

Herewe,  John,  534. 

Herewyk.     See   Herdewike. 

Herfeld.     See  Harefield. 

Herlaston.     See   Harleston. 

Herlawe.     See  Harlow. 

Herle,  Andrew  de,  450. 

,  Hugh,  clerk,  376. 

,  John,  John  de,  knight,  237, 

450. 

Herleston.     See   Harleston. 

Herlyng,  Herlyngg.     See  Harlyng. 

Herlyngton,  John,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Huntingdon,  536. 

Hermare,  John,  237. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


655 


Hermare.  John — cont. 
,     of    Havering    atte 

Bower,   365. 
Hermesthorp,  Hermethorp,  John  de, 

chamberlain  of  the  receipt  of 

tho  exchequer,  368. 
, king's    clerk,    warden 

of  the  hospital  of  St.  Kathe- 

rine  by  tho  tower  of  London. 

93. 
,  . . . . ,  parson  of  Bedale,  202, 

426. 
,  Thomas,  parson  of  St.  Mary 

Fenchurch,  London,  96. 
Hermon,  John,    'foubour,'   of  Lon- 
don, 99. 
Herrebury,  "William,  of  Derbyshire, 

525. 
Herringby,  Haryngby  [in  Stokesby], 

co.  Norfolk,  fee  in,  24,  25. 
Herry,  John,  465. 

Cf.  Harry. 

Herstone,  John,  ship's  yeoman,  59. 
Hert,  Harungard  do,  510. 

,  William,  baker,  281. 

Hertburne.     /See   Hartburn. 
Hertesheved.     See  Hartside. 
Herteshoo.     See    Hertishobury. 
Herteye.     See  Harty. 
Hertford,  co.  Hertford,  455. 
,  burgesses  of,  m  parliament, 

430. 
,      Brickendon.     Brokyndon, 

Brykyndon  in,  446,  447,  531. 
Hertford,  county  of,   76,   105,  225, 

267,  279,  282,  327,  342,  468. 

,  coroners  of,  320. 

,  escheators  in.     See  Bataille, 

Thomas ;     Keterich,   Roger  ; 

Welde,  John. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

536. 
.sheriff  of,   37,   88,   99,   100, 

186,  242,  254,  283,  320,  326, 

534. 

,  taxation  in,  42,  522. 

Hertfordyngbury.       See       Herting- 

fordbury. 
Hertham,  Martin  do,  561. 
Hertingfordburv,    Hertfordyngbury, 

co.  Hertford,  446,  447,  531. 
Hertishobury.  Herteshoo,  Herteshoo 

Darcies    [in    Farnham],    co. 

Essex,  manor  of,  453,  455. 
Hertle,  Robert  de,  84. 
Hertlepe.     See  Hartlip. 
Hertwello,  John,  190,  101. 

,  Richard.  101,  192. 

Hertyng.     See  Hurting. 
Hortyngdon.     See  Hartington. 


Hertyngdon,  Adam  do,  clerk,  225, 

628. 

king's  clerk,  303. 

Hervy,  Andrew,  of  London,  62,  63. 

,  John.  259. 

,  Richard,  210,  282. 

William,  the  king's  serjeant, 

1 1 5. 
Hervyesilond.     See   Island. 
Herward.     See  Hereward. 
Herwardstoke.     See  Stock. 
Herwich.     See    Harwich. 
Heryerde,  Hugh,  224. 
Heryng,     Heryng',     Nicholas,     207, 

332,  357,  434,  435,  533. 
,  .  . .  . ,  escheator    in    Surrey, 

4. 

,  .  .  .  .,  steward  of  Kent,  296. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the     king's    attorney, 

231. 

,  Walter,  226. 

Hesill,  John,  son  of  William  de,  367. 

,  William  de,  367. 

Hesilrigge,   William,    knight  of   the 

shire      of      Northumberland, 

428. 
Hesshete.     See    Heyshott. 
Hessle,     Hesyll    [in    Wragby],     co. 

York,  manor  of,  180. 
Heston,  Eston  [co.  Middlesex],  215. 

,  deed  dated  at,  216. 

,  Osterley    and    other    places 

named  in,  214-216. 

,  vicar  of,  216. 

Hesyere,  Hugh,  of  Canterbury,  342. 

Hesyll.     See  Hessle. 

Hethe.     See  Hythe. 

Hethe,    Henry    atte,     of    London, 

smith,  337. 
John,  escheator  in  Norfolk, 

394,  507. 

, , in  Suffolk,   394. 

395,  503. 

,  ....  atto,  of  London,  523. 

,  Thomas  atto.  knight,  539. 

Hethefeld.     See  Heathfield. 
Heton,  Jolin  do,  parson  of  Beneficld, 

361. 
William,  of  London,  tailor, 

52.1 

Cf.  Eton. 

Hevenyntdwun.   .loan  wifo  of  John 

do.  179,465. 

.John  do.  34,  17!t. 

I  [ever  Place,  Evor  in  Kingsdown,  co. 

Kent,  manor  of.  !»7. 
Seversham,      co.      Westmoreland, 

Preston  Richard  in.  499. 
Hexham,  Hextildeaham  [co.  North* 

uinbcrhuidj,  county  of,  842, 


656 


GENERAL     fNDEX. 


Hoybernrp.  Willimn.  194 
Heybridge,  Bebregge.  c<>.  Essex,  521. 
1 1>'\  don,  co    I '.  -\.  257. 

Beyford,   Qreat,   oo.    Northampton, 

1  16 
Hrvi'«»nl.  Robert,  of  Seyton,  472. 

II'.  jli.un      >'■  i     I  Ligham. 
Beyham,  James  do,  parson  oi  South 
Burlingham  2 16,  ~  17. 

Cf.    Bagham. 

llrvlr.   Riohard,  267. 
Beylesdon.     See   EeUesdon. 
Heyfesdon,    Beylisdon,    John.    199, 
240. 

son  of  Riohard  do,  515. 

Riohard  de,  516. 

Heyleye.     Set  Beighley. 
Beyhsdon.     See  Heylesdan. 
Bowshot  t.     Hesshete    [co.     Sussex], 

88. 
Heytesbnry.      Heghtrodeburv      Tco. 
Wilts],  hundred  of,  362,  367. 

Eastcourt.     Beghtredeburye 

Estconrt    [co.    Wilts],    deeds 
dated  at,  362,  307. 

,  manor  of,  362,  367. 

1 1  •  \  ward .     See  Haywan  1 . 
Heyvvood.   Beyivod'e  in  Diss,   Bey- 
wody    [in   Winfarthing],    co. 
Norfolk,  manor  of,    106. 
Beyworth,  Robert  de,  clerk,  94. 
Bicchun.     SeeBitchin. 
Hichecok,  Juliana  wife  of  Thomas, 
357. 

Stephen,    of    Bolton    upon 

Dearn.  chaplain,  357. 
Bichecote,  Thomas,  shepherd,  267. 
Bicke,  Bikke,  John,  265. 

,  Thomas,  216. 

Bicokkes,  Hicokes,  John,  194. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Ruardean,  1 94. 

Biddon,  Budden  [in  Bungerford,  co. 

Berks],  manor  of,  187. 
Bide.     See  Byde. 

hides,  49,   170,  251,   364,  378,  379, 
381,   382,  412,  441,  442. 

,  taxation  on,  167,  508. 

Bidewyn,  Bydewyn,  William,  coro- 
ner of  Northumberland  127, 
140. 
Bigham  on  the  Hill,  Beygham,  co. 

Leicester,  fee  in,  190,  191. 
Bighclere,   Hiyli   Clere   [co.   Bants], 

deed  dated  at,  425. 
highway,  repair  of,  30,  439. 
Bighworth,     co.     Wilts,     Fresden, 

Fressheton  in,  356. 
Hikke.     See  Hicke. 
Hikkes,  Emma,  214,  215. 


Bilborough,  BflbnTghworth,  Hill>ur- 
worth,  Bylburghworth  [co. 
Norfolk],  advowsco  of,  661. 

deeds  dated  at,  561,  .">;.2. 

iii.inor   of,    551. 

Eilde,  Riohard,  ">lo. 

Cf.  Belde. 

Bildegare,  Gteoffrey,  2'M\. 

Thomas,    of     Btmtmgdon- 

shire,  336,  337. 
Bildekirk.      8ee  Islckirk. 
Jlildcrstou.  Nicholas  do,  of  Norfolk, 
66. 

William,  of  London,  358. 

Ilildkirk.     See  islekirk. 
Eiliard,  Peter,  443. 
Bill,  Bulle  [in  Leamington  Bastings, 
co.  Warwick],  121.  122. 

Hullo     [in     Kladbury],     co. 

Worcester,    255. 
Bille,  Jolin  atto,  2 55. 

.  .  .  . ,    of    Cammeringham, 
72. 

Cf.  Bulle. 

Bilton,  Bcltonbaeoun  [in  Appleby], 
co.    Westmoreland,    lordship 
of,  53. 
Bilton,  Jo) in  de,  clerk,  98. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  clerk  of  chancery,  2. 

Hinckley,    Hynkele,    co.    Leicester, 

107. 
Bindloy,   Byndcley   [in  Wigan,   co. 

Lancaster],    334. 
Bintlesham,  Hintelesham,  Bintelis- 
liam,  co.  Suffolk,  advowson  of, 
372,    373. 

,  manor  of,  372,  373. 

Hinton    Blewitt,    Hentonbluet,    co. 
Somerset,  fee  in,  307. 

Charterhouse,    Benton,     co. 

Somerset,  prior  of,   307. 

,  ....  and  bretliren  of, 

389. 

Cf.  Bynton. 

Bints,  Hvntes,  co.  Stafford,  manor 

of,' 322. 
Hiptofthalle.     See   Balltoft   End. 
Birdman,  Thomas,  350. 
Bitchin,     Bicchun,     Bychene     [co. 
Bertford],  242. 

,  manor  of,  359. 

,  Maydencrof t,  Maydecrof t  in, 

183. 
Boathly,  East,  co.  Sussex,  Balland, 

Hallond  in,  420. 
hobblers,  170,  389. 
Hobdene,  Richard,  94. 
Hobeldod,  Adam,  62. 
,  .  . . . ,  coroner  of  Cambridge- 
shire, 379. 


CKNERAL    INDEX. 


G57 


Hobkyn.  Jolm,  chaplain,  230. 
Hobjr,  Houhy.  co.  Leicester, 'manor 

of,  14(3. 
Hocchebeger,  Adam,  202. 

Hockham.  co.  Norfolk,  eonstablo  of, 

240,  247. 
Hoddesdon.  Tiiomas,  242. 
Hode,  Jolm.  justice.  299.  300. 
Hodelston.     See  Hudleston. 
HodenJiale.     See  Hudnall. 
Hodersalle,  Adam  son  of  Robert  de, 

98. 
Hodgeston.    Hoggcston    [co.    Pem- 
broke], fee  in,  191,  192. 
Hodiham.     See  Odyham. 
Hodyngton,    Huddvngton,    Thomas 

de    335. 

William  de,  175. 

Hodynton.     See  Heddington. 
Hoerne,  William  de,  207. 

Cf.  Horn. 

Hogges.  Henry,  vicar  of  a  mediety  of 

Fattishall,  540. 

Cf.  Huges. 

Hoggeson,  Hoggesson,  Richard  son 

of  Jolm.  of  Cuerden,  14. 

,  William,  408. 

Hoggeston.     See    Hodgeston. 

Hoghton.     See  Hoton,  Houghton. 

Hokkee,  Nicholas,  212. 

Hokkele,  John  de,  409. 

Holand.     See  Holland. 

Holand,  John,  skinner,  of  London,  02. 

,       Maud       (de      Courteney ) 

daughter  of  Thomas  de,  earl 

of  Kent,  52. 
Holaym,   John,   John  de,   chaplain, 

222,  223. 
Holbeach,  Holbech,  co.  Lincoln,  73. 
Holbech,  Katherine  wife  of  Thomas, 

414. 
,  Simon    son    of    Martin    de, 

coroner  of  Lincolnshire,  393. 
Tiiomas,     cordwainer,    of 

London,  414. 
Holborn.    See  London,  places  named. 
Holbourne,  Stephen,  95. 
Holbroke.   John  de,    393,    394,   544, 

549. 
,  Margery  daughter  of  John 

de,  549. 

,  Maud  wife  of  John  de,  394. 

,  ....  (Blaunkpayn)    wife    of 

Thomas,  603. 

,  Thomas,  503. 

,  ....  son  of  Maud  de.  394. 

Holbrook,    Holbroke    [co.    Suffolk], 

advowson  of,  649. 

,  ....  of  chapel  of,  649. 

,  manor  of,  321,  642,  649. 

Wt.  11824. 


Holcot,  Helcote,   co.  Northampton, 

in,  L90. 
Holdenioss.  co.  York,  bailiff  of ,     See 

Frankissh,  John. 
justices  to  repair  walls,  dikes, 

gutters,  sowers,  causewayBand 

sluices  in.  4DL\  4<>:5. 
maintenance    of    sowers    in, 

440,  467. 
Holdyche,  Richard  de,  551. 
Holewale,  John.  85. 
Holewell.     See  Holwoll. 
Holgato  [by  York.  co.  York],  391. 
Holgoto.  Philip.  Philip  do,  258,  332, 

341,  401. 
Holiwodo,    Holywodo,     Robert     or 

Roger,    knight,    chief    baron 

of  the  exchequer  of  Ireland, 

140,  295. 
Holkliam.  co.  Norfolk.  171. 
collectors  of  subsidy  in  port 

of,  30. 

,  fishers  of,  30. 

,  manor  of,   322. 

Holkliam,  John  de,  551,  552. 
Holland,  Holand,  merchants  of,  383, 

498. 
Holland.    Holand,    division    of    co. 

Lincoln,    202. 
,  extortions  by  constable  of, 

22. 
.justices     to     preserve     the 

peace  in,  22. 
Hollesley,     Holleslo,     co.     Suffolk, 

manor  of,  387. 
Hollingbourn,     Holyngbourne,     co. 

Kent,  205. 
Hollington.  Hclynton  [in  Longford], 

co.  Derby,  317. 
Hollym.  Holme  in  Holdernesse  [co. 

York],  87. 

,  Rysom,  Rysum  in,  223. 

Holmo,   Homo  in    I'urbvk  Tin  East 

Stoke],  co.  Dorset,  19,  20. 
[in     Purton]  ?       Rfareaahal- 

holm,  co.  Westmoroland,  feo 

in,  49!). 
Cultram,  llolmcultram    [co. 

Cumberland],  abbot  of.  0. 
and    convent    of, 

11. 

See  Hollym,  Hulmo. 

Holme,  Jordan  de,  rector  of  Softon, 

328. 
Richard,  of  Yorkshire*.    646. 

Robert  de,  <>f  London,  337. 

Roger  de.   606. 

William  de.  William.  464. 

of  Holme  in    I  Iddor- 

noss,  87. 

en  42 


GENERAL  IXDKX. 


Holme.  William  » 1  *"  —emit. 

of  Yorkshire,  273,  274. 

lh>hn<-v   babe]  wife  of  John,   l"'.'. 
Ml. 

John,  of  Acton,  109,  561. 

1  [ohnpton,     Hohnton     [oo.     York], 
tor  of  ohapel  of.     Si  i  I  tole, 

Alan. 

Home.     s      Holme. 

Holt.  Holte  [oo.  Leicester],  7.">. 

deed  dated  ;it   76. 

manor  <>i.  257. 

co.  Worcester,  383. 

Beauchamp  of.  L57. 

Holtc  Alice  wife  of  John.  360. 

Henry,  86. 

lohn.  207,  360,  361. 

Richard,  228,  229. 

Thomas,  of  Canterbury,  200. 

Walter,  eecheator  in  Leices- 

jhire,   Ins    189,    L91,   192, 
306.  315,  :U7.   321,  401. 
in      Warwick- 
shire, 188,  189,  191.  192,  318. 
408. 
Holton,  co.  Suffolk,  advowson  of,  544. 

, fee  in,  24,  25. 

See  Alton. 

Holton.  Henry,  bailiff  of  Pastrow  and 

KiiiL'sclore  hundred,  300. 
Holwell,  HoteweU  [in  Hatfield],  co. 

Hertford.  440.  447.  531. 
Holyoaks,  Haliok.  Halyok  [in  Stoke 

Dry.  co.  Leicester],  75.  76. 
Holyngbourne.     See  Hollingbourne. 
Holywode.     See  Holiwode. 
Homington,  Homanton,   co.   Wilts, 

120. 
Honesdon,  Jolin  de,  parson  of  East- 
wood, 128. 
honey,  417,  441,  442,  489. 
Honiton,  Honyton,  co.  Devon,  ad- 
vowson of,  167. 

,  manor  of,  1 67. 

Honyngton,  Honyton,  John  de,  55, 

151. 
Honysdon.     See  Hunsdon. 
Honyton.     See    Honiton,    Honyng- 
ton. 
Hoo  [co.  Kent],  468. 

St.  Mary,  co.  Kent,  280. 

See  Malmaynes. 

Hoo,    Geoffrey   father   of    Nicholas 
atte,  550. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Roger  atte,  319. 

,  Maud  atte,  319. 

,  Nicholas    atte,    saddler,    of 

London,  550. 

,  Robert  de,  clerk,  211. 

,  Roger  atte,  319. 


Hoo    oonL 

Thomas    atte,    do,    knight, 

110,  263,  267. 

of   Buesex,   211. 

knight  of  tho  shire  of 

[Bedford,  429. 
Hoobregge.     See  l  low  bridge. 
Hopkyns,   William,  burgess  of  War- 
wick in  parliament,  537. 
Hoppeley,  Thomas,  chaplain,  277. 
Hopton    (near    Lowestoft),    co.    Suf- 
folk. 246,  247. 

(near  Thotford),  co.  Suffolk, 

246. 

Cangoford,       Hopton,       co. 

Salop     [in     Stanton     Lacy], 
manor  of,  430. 
Hopton.  I  bpton,  Isabol  wifo  of  John 
127. 

,  John  de,  427. 

knight,  368,  369,  431. 

Cf.   H  upton. 

Horbury,      John,      of       Lancashire, 

533. 
Horcy.     See  Horsey. 
Horcy,  Eleanor  wife  of  John,  159. 

,  John,  159. 

Horde.  Robert,  of  Walford,  coroner 
of  Shropshire,  173. 

Thomas,  159. 

Cf.  Hort. 

Hordwelle.     See  Hardwell. 

Hore.  Adam,  vicar  of  Wanborough, 

534. 
,  Thomas,  coroner  of  Devon- 
shire. 32. 
Horkesleye.     See  Horksley. 
Horkestowo.     Sec  Horkstow. 
Horksley.  Horkesleye,  co.  Essex,  238, 

459. 
Horkstow,  Horkestowe,  co.  Lincoln, 

fee  in,  162. 
Horley,  Horle,  co.  Surrey,  370. 
Honnead,  Hormade,  Little,  co.  Hert- 
ford, manor  of,  503. 
Horn,  Home,  co.  Rutland,  manor  of, 

505. 
Horn,  Amice,  117. 

,  John,  434. 

,  Richard,  87. 

,  Robert,  of  Barton  on  Hum- 

ber,  329. 

Cf.  Hoerne. 

Hornby  [in  Melling,  co.  Lancaster], 

Neville  of,  513.  535. 
Hornby,  Horneby,  Ralph  de,  mayor 
of  York,  433. 

,  Robert  de,  162. 

,  Roger  de,  34. 

.William  do,  69. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


G59 


Hornby,  William  de — eont 
parson  of   St.   Michael 

on  Wyre,  363. 
Horncastle.  Homcastre  [co.  Lincoln], 

manor  of,  313. 

,  soke  of.  313. 

Hornclmrch.       Hornecliirche       [co. 

Essex],  master   and   brethren 

of  hospital  of.  441. 
Horndon.  Hornedon.  co.  Essex,  13G, 

210. 
,     East,      Fouchers,      Gynge 

PucUe  in.  23. 

, fee  in,  23. 

on    the    Hill.    Horndon,    co. 

Essex,  521. 
Arden  Hall,    Arderne- 

halle  in.  521. 
Home.     See  Horn. 
Homeby.     Sea  Hornby. 
Hornecliirche.     See  Hornclmrch. 
Hornedon.     See  Horndon. 
Hornele.   Richard,   chaplain,    117. 
Horningsea.        Hornyngseye        [co. 
□abridge],   62. 

Eva  Hall.  Eye  in.  62. 

Hornsey,  co.  Middlesex.  Harringay. 

Haryngeay,   Haryngeseve   in, 

250,  357. 
Hornyngeseye.     See  Horningsea. 
Horpewtll,  Robert  de.  102. 
Horscroft,  William,  of  London.  442. 

Cf.  Huscroft. 

Horseheath.  Horset  [co.  Cambridge], 

108.  201. 
Horsemonden,     Horsmenden,     Hos- 

menden.       Hosnmiden,      co. 

Kent,  309. 

,  advowson  of,  507. 

,  manor  of,   507. 

horses,  20,  39.  42,  48.  348,  382.  545, 

552,  556. 

,  black.  344. 

,  dim,  344. 

,  price  of,  387. 

theft  of.  221. 

Horset.     See  Horseheath. 

Horseth.    Nicholas,    of    Wijgenhall, 

472,  516. 
Horsey,  Horcy  [in  Bridgwater],  co. 

Somerset,  manor  of,   L59. 
Horsford,  John,  of  Watford.  65,  66. 
Horsham  [en.  Sussex],  vicar  of .    See 

Coughtele,  Stephen. 
Horsington.  II  ton,  co.  Somer- 

set, manor  oi.   120. 
Horsley.  Borate,  co.  Surrey,  61. 
Horsmenden.    Sit  Borsemonden. 
Horsted    Keynes,     Borstedekaynes, 

CO.  Sussex,  101. 


Horsyngton.     8et   Horsington. 
Hon.      Richard,     of     WeUeworth, 

coroner  of  Salop,  16. 

Cf.   Horde. 

Horton,    Horton    by    Colbroke,    co. 

Buckingham,     advowson    of, 

367. 

, deed  dated  at,  3."»7. 

manor  of.  89,  92,  357. 

co.    Northampton,    fee    in, 

189. 
Horton.    Thomas.    Thomas    de,    of 

Newcastle   upon  Tyne,     371, 

381. 
William  de,  guardian  of  the 

peace  in  the  West  Riding  of 

Yorkshire,  554. 
Hoseye.  Walter.  63. 

Cf.  Hua 

Hosmenden.       HosmjTiden.         See 

Horsemonden. 
Hostiller,  Simon,  of  London,  241. 

Cf.  Husteler,  Ostiler. 

Hotayft.     See  Huttoft. 

Hothum,      Alice      (le       Despenser) 

daughter    of     John    son    of 

Peter  de,  knight.  46. 

John  de,   knight.  500. 

Hotoft,     Richard,     coroner    of    co. 

Leicester,  120. 

Robert.  514. 

Hoton.  Hauton.  Hoghton  [in  Prest- 

wold],  co.  Leicester,  457. 

fee  in,  162. 

See     Houghton,     Hutton, 

Huttons  Ambo. 
Houby.     See  Hoby. 
Houbv,  John  de.  of  Holt,  75,  76. 

.,  Walter.   190,   191. 

Houden,  John  do,  532. 
burgess  of  Nowcastle- 

upon-Tyne.  400. 
Houdenshyre.     Sex  Howdenshire. 
Houel.     See  Howell. 
Hougbryghtby,  co.  Cmnborland,  19. 
Houghton,     parson     of.     Sec     Apo- 

thorp.   Philip  de. 
Hoton     [in     Stanwix],     co. 

Cumberland,   L9. 
[in  Lamport  ].  co.  Northamp- 
ton, fco  in,  190. 
Great,  co.  Northampton, 

in.   189. 
Little,  co.  Northampton,  fee 

in.    189. 
on    the    Hill.    Bouton,    co. 

Norfolk,  manor  of,  L94,  1 96, 
Houghton,  Boghton,  Bouton,  Hugh- 

ton,  Adam  de,  Adam,  bishop 

of  St.  David's,  249,  BB9. 


660 


GENERAL     INDEX 


Houghton,  Adam  da,  bishop  of  st. 

I  »a\  id">  - 1 

ohanoellor,  de- 
livery of  great  seal  to,  409, 
466.  ' 

to 

deputies,  during   Bojourn  of, 

abroad.  .">|i->. 

guardian  of  the  p 

and  justice  of  oyer  ana  ter- 
miner in  Lancashire,  68. 

Florence  wife  of  Stephen  de, 

24 

Henry  <!< .  1 7. 

John,  209. 

Richard  de,  189. 

eecheator  in  Lancas- 
hire. 144.  295,  601. 

Stephen  de,  24  f. 

Thomas  dr.  Thomas.  74.  151, 

434. 

William    de,    William,    85, 

231,  236,  449,  159. 
citizen  of  London.  211. 

draper,  of  London,  495. 

merchant  of  London, 

55.'5. 

Cf.  Huton. 

Houpere,  John  le.  100. 

House.  John  at  to.  verderer  of  Hat- 
field forest.   497. 

Houton.     See  Houghton. 

Howard.  Robert.  Robert  de.  knight, 
234,  246. 

Howbridge.  Hoobregge  [in  Witharo, 
co.  Essex].  462. 

Howdenshiro,      Houdonshvre,      co. 
York.  329. 

Howe,  co.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  234. 

Howell,  Houel.  How  el,  Hugh,   511. 

,  John  de,  John,  532. 

,  .....  burgess   of   Newcastle 

upon  Tyne  in  parliament.  537. 

,  of  Woodstock,  justice 

in  co.  Pembroke,  506. 

Howelyn,  Robert,  471. 

Howome,  Robert  de,  of  York,  mer- 
chant. 339. 

Thomas  de,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  York.  554. 

Hubert,  Jolin,  of  Essex,  96. 

Hudde,  Henry,  parson  of  Barrowby, 
176. 

Hudden.     See  Hiddon. 

Huddyngton.     See  Hodyngton. 

Hudleston,     Hodelston,     Hudliston, 
John,  John  de,  368,  472. 

,  . .  . . ,  burgess  of  Lincoln  in 

parliament,  429. 


Hudnall.  Hodenhate  [in  Eddies- 
borough],  co.  Buckingham, 
32. s.  650. 

hue  and   cry.   43. 

I [uges,  John,  •">)  1. 

Of.  Hogges. 

Hugh,  Nicholas  son  of.  328. 

See  Fita  Hugh. 

Hughton.     See  I  foughton. 

Hugyn,  Bygyn,  John,  of  London, 
250. 

Richard,  213. 

Hulcoto  [in  Easton  Noston,  co. 
Northampton],    540. 

Hull.  Hullo.  Sec  Hill;  Kingston  upon 
Hull. 

Hull.-.  Ellen  wife  of  William  de,  78. 

,  John,    John   atte,    John   of 

the.  83,  243,  248,  252,  280, 
351,  354. 

Margery  daughter  of  Richard 

son  of  Richard  atto,  501. 

,  Richard  atte,   89. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  530. 

, escheator  in  Devon- 
si  lire,  503. 

,  Roger  atto,  213. 

William,    William    de,     78, 

253.  256,  362. 

Cf.  Hille. 

Hullero,  Roger,  213,  214. 

Hulleston,  John,  knight,  537-539. 

Cf.  Hulveston,  Hurleston. 

Hulme,  Holme  by  Mancestre  [in  Man- 
chester], co.  Lancaster,  328. 

Hulot,  John,  217. 

Cf.  Euelot. 

Hulveston,  John  de,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Suffolk,  537. 

Cf.  Hulleston. 

Humber,  Humbre,  river  [co.  York], 
floods  caused  by,  403,  468. 

Humbleton,  John,  clerk,  524. 

Humbre.     See  Humber. 

Humburmedewe,  co.  Nottingham, 
56,  134. 

Humflamville.     See  Umframville. 

Humfray,  John,  333. 

Hunden,  Hundon.  Geoffrey,  Geoffrey 
de,  237,  327,  453,  455,  464, 
514,   515,   537-539. 

Hundesdon.     See  Hunsdon. 

Hundon.     See  Hunden. 

Hundresfeld,  John,  251. 

Hungerford  [co.  Berks],  bailiffs  of, 
187. 

,  Hiddon,  Hudden  and  Edd- 

ington,  Edeneton  in,  187. 

Hungerford,  Hungreford,  Eleanor 
wife  of  Thomas,  362,  367. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


tiiii 


H  ungerf  ord  — co  nt. 

Thomas,    Thomas   de,    201, 

307,  302.  367. 
,  kniglit,  2-41,  307,  362, 

520. 
kniglit  of  the  shire  of 

Wilts.  536. 
Hunmanby.  Nicholas,  182. 
Hunsdon,     Honysdon,     Hundesdon, 

co.  Hertford.  123.  204.  257. 

deeds  dated  at,  204,  257. 

Hunte,  Henry,  283. 

,  John,  199,  240. 

,  Ralph,  of  Coventry,  206. 

,  William.   96.   332.' 

Hunteland.     See  Huntland. 
Huntelev,  Margaret  wife  of  Robert 

de.  180. 

,  Robert  de,  1 80. 

Huntingdon,  Huntyngdon  [co.  Hunt- 
ingdon], 329. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

430. 

,  repair  of  bridge  of,  523,  533. 

Huntingdon,     archdeacon     of.     See 

Swynle,  Jolin  de. 
,  countess    of.      See    Clinton, 

Juliana  de. 

,  earl  of.     See  Scot,  Jolin  le. 

,  honour  of,  523. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  liberties  of  tenants  of, 

34. 
Huntingdon,    Huntyngdon,    county 

of.  63,  329. 

,  coroners  of,  305. 

,  escheators  in.     See  Brough- 

ton,     John;      Parker,    John; 

Sewale,  Thomas. 
,  justices     to     preserve     tho 

peace  in,  84. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  42'.). 

536. 

sheriff  of.  37,  42,  431. 

Huntingfield.        Huntyngfeld.        co. 

Suffolk,  advowson  of,  394. 

,  manor  of,   394. 

Huntland,  Hunteland,  the,  [in  Wark 

and  Bimondburn],  oo.  North- 
umberland. 507. 
Huntyngdon.     See  Huntingdon. 
Huntyngdon,     Huntyngton,      Kliza- 

Im  t)i  wife  of  Ralph  de,   1 1  <>, 

1  17.  203,  223. 

,  Ralph  de,  532. 

, of   Sauston,    116,    117, 

203,  223. 

Robert,  of  Catworth,  230. 

Huntyngfeld.     See   Huntingfield. 
Huntyiigi'-ld.  Margery  wife  of  John 

son  of  William  de,  395,  480. 


1 1  antyngfeld — emit. 

William  de.   justice   to   pre- 

sti\  c  the  i  eaee  in  Holland 
in    Lincolnshire,    22. 

, knight,  394,  395,  418, 

477,  480. 

Huntyngdon.     See  Huntyngdon. 

Hupton.  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de, 
draper,  of  London,  271. 

Of.  Hopton. 

Hurdcott.  Hurdecote  [in  Ba\'erstock, 
co.  Wilts).  241. 

Hurleston.  John  do,  captain  of 
Guines.  393. 

Cf.  Hulleston. 

Hurtesleye,  Hurteehey,  Jolin  de, 
coroner  of  Herefordshire .  477. 

escheator  in  Hereford- 
shire, 3,  4. 

Hurworth,  Hurtheworth  [co.  Dur- 
ham],  parson  of.  See  Rou- 
clif,  Guy  de. 

Huscroft,  Robert  son  of  Robert  do, 
558.  559. 

Cf.  Horscrof t. 

Husee,  Huse,  Henry,  488,  546,  552. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight.  331. 

,  ....  son  of  Henry,  488. 

John  son  of  John.  86. 

,  [Catherine  wife  of  Henry,488. 

,  Nicholas.   92. 

Richard,  vendor  of  under- 
wood in  Melchet  forest.  141. 

,  Thomas.  323,  631. 

Cf.  Hoseye. 

Hustelor,  William,  441. 

Cf.  Hostiller,  Ostiler. 

Huton,  John  de,  34. 

Cf.  Houghton. 

Huttoft,  Hotaft.  co.  Lincoln,  fee  in, 
161. 

Hutton  in  tho  Hay,  Hoton  [in  Ken- 
dal], eo.   Westmoreland.    144. 

Sheriff.  CO.  York.  Karlington, 

Farlyngton  in,  r>:2<). 

Huttons  Ambo,  co.  York,  Low 
Hutton,  I  [otonColswayneand 
I  [oton  M\  nchon  in,  1 83. 

, manor  of,  163. 

mill  at.   1 1>'5. 

High  Hutton.  Hoton  Bardolf 

in.  manor  of,   163. 

Huwet,  John,  466. 

Walter,    knight,    letters    of 

administration  of  goods  of, 
•_'ii'.).  270. 

Hychene.     Set    Hitchin. 

Hyde  abbey.     Si  >   Winohest< 

Hyde,  Hide,  John  atto,  do  la,  328, 
481. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Hyde,  Jol  d  atti 

. .' .'.  ol  Bgleton,  i<>. 

of  Rutland,  534. 

Peter  atte,  22,  -2:1. 

Simon  at te,  :!t'>ii. 

Hydewyn.     Sa    Hidewyn. 

Hye,  Thorn 

Hygyn      S      Hugyn. 

Hylburghworth.     >'•<     Hilborough. 

II ;.].«.  la     Set    Heale. 

Hyryngton,  Reynold,  olerk,  I 

Hyndefegh,  Willi aj a.  ivctor  o 
den,  447. 

Bynd(  b         -      Hindky. 

Hyndon,  Edmund  de,  Bdmund,  -l'.~>. 
239,  242,  243,  361,  527. 
Hinckley. 

HynkerreahuDe.     Set     Inkorsall. 

Hyntea     Set  Hinta 

Hyntea,  Thomas  de,  318. 
Hynton,  00.   Northampton,  fee  in, 
190. 

Cf.    Hinton. 

Hynton.  Ralph  de,  247. 

Roger  de,  carpenter,  of  Lon- 
don. 288. 

Thomas,    Thomas   de,    182, 

257,    4.-»:5. 

son  of  William  de  Hyn- 
ton   by   Brekkele.    244. 

William,  under  bailiff  of  the 

honour  of  Rayleigh,  3. 

Cf.  Henton. 

Hythe,  Hethe,  co.  Kent,  53,  212. 

,  seamen  of,  149. 


Ibberton,    Ebrighton,     co.     Dorset, 

advowson  of,  168. 

,  manor  of,  168. 

Iberchon     (barony),     Obargan     [co. 

Kilkenny],  Ireland,  46. 
Ibstock,  Tbestoke,  co.  Leicester,  fee 

in,  190,  191. 
,  parson  of.     See  Clareburgh, 

Richard  de. 
Ichinton.     See  Itchington. 
Ichull.     See  Itchell. 
lchynton.     See   Itclrington. 
lckham,  co.  Kent.  Well,  Welle  in, 

332. 
Idebury .  Robert,  parson  of  Twining , 

160. 


[desworth.     .s<   Idsworth. 
idiocy,  127,  166,  305. 

examination  of.  4. 

[dsworth,    [desworth    [co.    Hants], 

80. 
Id\  ngton.     Si  <  Bdington. 
[field,  Held,  co.  Sussex,  309. 

vicar  of.     See  Cook,  Robert. 

Ikelyngford,     Richard,     luir^ess    of 

Hertford  in  parliament,  430. 
Ikham,  Thomas.  178,  179. 
lkkollishale.     See  QketshalL 
Ddyngham,    John   de.    collector   of 

'  subsidy,  293. 
Dcworth,  Thomas  de,  of  Suffolk,  71. 
Dchester.  Ye\  clchostre  [co. Somerset], 

1. 
Ildebas.     See  Batz,  He  do. 
Ilderton.     Thomas     de,     slieriff     of 

Northumberland,  400. 
Ildcslo,     \Vilham     do,     coroner     of 

Berks)  dro.  301. 
[le  de  France.  France  [France],  254. 
llford,  Illeford   [co.   Essex],  master 

and    brethren   of    St.    Mary's 

hospital,  63. 
Ilger,  William,  escheator  in  Ireland, 

179,  188,  311,  387. 
Illeford.     See  llford. 
Ilkeston,  co.  Derby,  fees  in,  162. 
Uketahall,  Ikketlishale,  co.  Suffolk, 

234. 

,  manor  of,  234. 

Illeford,     Thomas     de,     the     king's 

sumpter,  63. 
Illeston,  Ilston.  Thomas  de,  eschea- 
tor in  Kent.  33,  53,  57,  138, 

164,  168,  176,  178,  186,  193, 

206,  292,  304,  309,  316,  322, 

418,  483. 

,  . . . . ,  ....  in  Middlesex,  38, 

133,  140,  153.  188,  189,  416. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in    Surrey,     1 38, 

140,  153,  188,  189,  304,  370, 

488. 
,  . . . .,  ....  in    Sussex,    127, 

139,  140,  179,  309,  370,  409, 

419,  421,  493,  499. 
Illeye,  Richard,  knight,  194,  552. 
Illington,    Elyngton,    co.    Norfolk, 

234. 
Illovere,  W'illiam,  110. 
Round.     See  Island. 
Ilston.     See  Illeston. 
Ilton,     co.     Somerset,     Merryfield, 

Murifeld  in,  111. 
Imbury.     See  Inbury. 
Impney,  Imeney  [in  Droitwich],  co. 

Worcester,  fee  in,  493. 
Imworth,  Hugh,  237,  450. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


G03 


in  bury.    Tmburv    in    Isleworth    [co. 
"  Middlesex],   214. 

Inchiqniii,  Inchecuingno  [in  Clon- 
priest,  co.  Cork],  Ireland, 
70. 

lngelbrygh',  Arnald,  b>4. 

Ingelby,   Ingilby,    Benry  de,   clerk. 
'04. 

,  keeper  of  the  house  of 

Converts,   147. 

,  Laurencia  wife  of   William, 

204. 

,  Thomas  de,  77,  94,  193. 

,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Coventry,  55,  474. 

,     .  .  .  .  ,    ....      and    of     the 

statutes  of  Winchester,  North- 
ampton and  Westminster  in 
Coventry,  341. 

....  in  the  West  Riding 

of  Yorkshire,  554. 

, ,  justice,    299,    300. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  York,  554. 

, to      hold      pleas 

before  the  king.  4,  30,  312, 
316.  317,  319.  374.  ."343,  544. 

,  William,  272. 

lngelwode.     See  lnglewood. 

Ingham,  John,  of  Corby.  361. 

Inghowe,  Ingowe,  Nicholas  de, 
coroner  of  Northumberland, 
127,   139. 

Ingilby.     See  Ingelby. 

lnglewood,  lngelwode  forest  [co. 
Cumberland],  6,  90,  120. 

,  keeper  of,  34. 

Ingman,  John,  of  Norfolk,  431. 

Ingowe.     See  Inghowe. 

Ingram,  Angroham  [co.  Northum- 
berland], parson  of.  See 
Evenwode,  Robert  de. 

Ingulf,  John,  258. 

Ingyl,  John,  of  Bassmgbourn,  203. 

Inkersall,  Hynkerieslmllo  [in  Jhim- 
ington,  co.  Derby],  225. 

Inner,  Simon,  merchant  of  Catalonia, 
196. 

Inskysty.     See  Askeat<  n. 

Insula,  Islo,  Lyale,  Gerard  boh  of 
Warm  de,  372-37-1. 

,  Joan  wiie  of  Walter  de,  179. 

Margaret    (Pypard)   vi  ife  of 

Warm  <!<■.  372  374. 

Robert  df.  knight,  61. 

,  Rogei  '!<•.  1  ii2. 

Walter  ("/•  William)  son  of 

Walter  [or  William)  de,  17'.). 

,  Warm  dr,   372,   373. 


Insula,  Warin  de — cunt. 
guardian  of  tho  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Berkshire,  350. 
knight,  221.  340,  356, 

357. 
undo    of     Warin    de, 

349. 
William  son  of  Walter  de, 

276. 
Ippewell,  Robert,  282. 
Ipre,  John  de,  controller  of  the  king's 

household.  166. 
,  fanner  of  Moorond  and 

Yardley  Gobion,  418. 
, knight,  steward  of  the 

king's  household,  423. 

Ralph  de,  363. 

Ipswich.       Gippewic,       Gippewich, 

Gyppewich,  Gyppewych  [co. 

Sulfolk],  356. 

,  bailiffs  of,  365. 

deeds   dated    at,     103,    542, 

544,  549. 

,  port  of,  382. 

collectors   of    customs 

and  subsidies  in,  41,  170,  252, 

365. 
Irchenfeld.     See  Archenfield. 
Irdeslev.     See  Eardisley. 
Ireland.  47.  .Id.  131.  202,  375.  382, 

391.  392.  447,  4  IS   489,  .~>46. 
chancellor  of.  7.  46,  130,  131, 

145.   179,   181,  188.  202,  296, 

298,  311,  383,  388,  481,  491. 
also     Tans-.      William ; 

Wickford,  Robert  do. 

,  chancery  of,  482. 

,  clergy  of,  130. 

common   Bench   of   Dublin, 

I  62. 

,  . . . .,  justices  of.  130,  660. 

,  commons  of,  304. 

corn  from.  318,  4'.H. 

council  of,  6,  146,  170. 

court  of,  4<i.  162. 

defence  of,  17o.   171. 

demise    of    crown    lands    in, 

L79,  181,  182. 
eloignment    of     deaf     and 

dumb  person  t". 
escheator  in.  146.     Sot  also 

Bekenesfeld,     Nicholas     de ; 

I I  er,  William. 

exchequer  of.  exchequer  of 

Dublin,  •">.  145,  334. 
barons   of,    130,    l  M, 

Set  also  < larleU,  William. 
chief    baron    of.     See 

lloliuode,   Roberta 


864 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Inland  [uer  of— coni 
mils  and  memoranda 

o: 

treasurer    and    barons 

of,  i.;.  334    38  I 

and  ohamber- 

lama  170. 

excommunication  in,  182. 

forces  serving  in.   1  T< ». 

free  export  from,  to  Eng- 
land, ■  ■■ 

governor  of,  7. 

and  guardian  of,   179, 

181,  II.  also 

Wvndeeore,  William  dr. 

gnat    seal    of,    writs    under, 

37S. 

hides  of.  412. 

hospital  of  St.  John  of  Jeru- 
salem in,  prior  of.  See  Tan  v. 
William. 

indictment   of    William   de 

Wyndesore  and  others  for 
extortion  in.  368,  409. 

jasticos  of  either  Bench  in, 

131). 

to  hold  pleas  following 

justiciary    of.    145. 

justiciary   of,    5,    162,    179, 

181,  295,  293,  311,  388,  491. 
See  also  Assheton,  Robert  de  ; 
Boteler,  James  le  ;  Fitz 
Maurice  Maurice. 

knights   and    true   men   of, 

140. 

,  law  and  custom  of,  304. 

,  lead  in,  388. 

lords  of  land  in,  contribu- 
tions of,  to  defenco  of,  298, 
299. 

,  men  of,  summoned  to  coun- 
cil in  England,  373,  384. 

,  mines  of  gold  and  silver  in, 

312,  355. 

,  ordinances  concerning  wool 

and  lead  in,  388,  412. 

,    ....   regulating  question  of 

non-resident  landlords,  46, 
311. 

,  parliaments  of,  10. 

proclamation       regulating 

currency  of  Scottish  money 
in.  202.' 

,  reformation  of,  295. 

,  respite  of  debts  in,  334. 

,  restoration  of  peace  in,  5. 

,  seal  used  in,   1 52. 

,  staples  in,  388. 

taxation  in,  10. 

the  king's  court  of,  40,  152. 


Troland — emit. 

the  king' E  marshal  in.      See 

Morleye,   William. 

retinue-  in,  masters  of, 

389. 
ovorsoor  of.     See 

i  '.ache.  Thorn  ' 
seal  of,  140,  152,  179. 

181,  481. 

,  ....  sergeants  in,  146. 

,  treasurer  of,   1  .'to,   131,   146, 

179.   181,  202.  295.  298,  383, 

388.  491.      See  also  Baddoby, 

Thomas  do. 
undor- valuation  of  land  in, 

182. 

war  in,  10. 

Irenacton.  Ireneacton,  Irone  Acton. 

See  Acton. 
Irland,  Irlond,  Henry,  41. 

.Thomas.  442. 

Cf.  Dirland. 

iron,  135. 

,  engines  of,  called  caltrappes, 

210. 

,  quintals  of,  310. 

,  working  of,  275. 

Iron  Acton.     See  Acton. 

Isabel  the  king's  daughter,   wife  of 

Ingelram  de  Coucy,   earl   of 

Bedford,  144,  145,  379,  403, 

440,  441,  407,  408. 
Isabel,  Maud  wife  of  Thomas  son  of, 

00. 

,  Thomas  son  of,  60. 

Isak,  John,  103. 

Iscoed,    Iscoit,   co.   Cardigan,   com- 
mote of,  400. 
Isenbrugge.     See   Isombridge. 
Isham,  Robert  de,  Robert,  300,  425. 
Island,  Great,  the  Island,  Hervyes- 

ilond,   Hound    [in   Kilmokea, 

co.  Wexford],  Ireland,  387. 

,  . . . . ,  barony  of,  387. 

Isle.     See  Insula. 

Islekirk,     Hildekirk,     Hildkirk      in 

Bolton,       co.       Cumberland, 

chapel  of,  chantry  in,  0. 

,  grange  of,  6. 

Isle  of   Man.     See  Man. 

of  Wight.     See  Wight. 

Islep.     See  Islip. 

Islep,  Alice  wife  of  William  de,  300. 

,  Milicent  de,  300. 

,  William  de,  300. 

Isleworth,  Istelworth  [co.  Middlosox], 

213,  215,  228,  200. 

,  deed  dated  at,  215. 

,  heath  of.  214. 

,  koepers  of  manor  of,  106. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


GG5 


Isloworth — cont. 

,  mill  in.  214. 

Worton    and    other    places 

named  in.  213-215. 
Islip,  Islep  [co.  Northampton],  360. 

deed  dated  at,  360. 

Ismonger,  Thomas,  182. 
Isombridgo,    Isenbrugge    [in    Ercall 

Magna],  co.  Salop,  manor  of, 

319. 
Istelworth.     See   Isloworth. 
Italy,  472. 
,  merchants    of,    in    London, 

422. 
Itcholl.  Ichull  [in  Crondal],  co.  Hants, 

lord  of  manor  of .     See  Giffard , 

Jolin. 

,  manor  of,  453,  455. 

Itchington,    Long,    Long    Ichinton, 

Ichynton,  co.  Warwick,  deeds 

dated  at,  455,  401. 
Ive,  John,  clerk,  64. 

,  .  . .  .,  of  Lincolnshire,  82. 

,  Nicholas,  307. 

,  Robert,    parson    of    Keyng- 

ham,  185. 
Iverk,    Overk   [co.    Kilkenny],    Ire- 
land, 46. 

,  serjeanty  of,  46. 

Ivinghoe,  Ivyngho,  co.  Buckingham, 

328.  511. 
Iwayn,  John,  shipmaster,  297. 
Iwerne   Minster.    Minstre,     Yvvorne, 

Ywerne  Minstre  [co.  Dorset], 

267. 

,  ....  deed  dated  at,  267. 

,  .  .  .  .,  Preston  in,    323,    550. 

Iwhurst.     See  Ewhurst. 
Ixenyng,    Ixnyng.     Sec  Exiling. 


Jacobsono,  Collard.  ship  master,  498. 
Jacomyn.      James,      merchant      of 

Florence,  293. 
Jacson,  William,  of  Aldcliffe,  500. 
Jakesley.    8ee  Yaxley. 
Jakyn,  Simon,  271.  273. 

Of.  Jankyn. 

James,  John,  529. 

burgess    of    Walling- 

ford  in  parliament,  430. 
, UUght  of  tho  shiro  of 

Oxford,  536. 


James,  John — cont. 

of     Wallingford,     68, 

197,  278,  527. 

,  Robert,  111.  621. 

, esoheator  in  Somerset- 
shire, 482.  491,  492. 

knight  of  tho  shire  of 

Somerset,  ■">:>•>. 

Cf.  Jemes. 

Jankyn,  William,  of  Kent,  225. 

Cf.  Jakyn. 

Jans,  Peter,  of  Flanders,  12. 

Janua.     See  Genoa. 

Janua,  Visolus  de,  57. 

Janyn,  Lawronco,  110. 

Jattey,  Joan  wife  of  William,  143. 

,  William,  143. 

Jebyn,  Nicholas,  24. 

Jemes,  John,  259. 

Cf.  James. 

Jereseye.     See  Jersey. 

Jernemuth.     See  Yarmouth. 

Jerome,  Ellen,  449. 

Jerpoint,  Church,  the  Newtown  of 
Geripont  [co.  Kilkenny],  Ire- 
land, 46. 

Jersey,  Jereseye,  alien  priories  in, 
496. 

kooper    of.       See  Calveley, 

Hugh  de. 

the  king's  castle  in,  446. 

Jerusalem,  hospital  of  St.  John  of. 
See  St.  John. 

jewels,  552. 

,  removal  of,  from  priory,  151. 

Joan  princess  of  Walos.  wife  of 
Edward  prince  of  Wales.  403, 
42(1-122. 

,  assignment  of  dower  to,  405- 

409. 

Joce,  George,  141. 

,  John,  191,   192. 

chaplain,  206. 

Robert,  of  London,  vintner, 

!t.l 

Jocus,  John,  priest,  269,  270. 
Of.  Jo 

Joel,  Thomas,  clerk.  1 16,  L47,  531. 

JoguL,  Ralph,  L00. 

Julian.  Johannis,  Arnold.  172. 

de    IVrueis.    472. 

Francis,    merchant   of    tho 

old  Stresses,  of  Florence,  251. 

of   the   Stio/./.i   in 

I. Miidon,  440. 

of    the    fellowship   of 

Charles  de  Btrooiis,  of   rkw- 

.  me    172,  47  I. 

Matthew,  of  the  fellowship 

ot  the  Albertini,  172. 


i     \i:i:\l    ixi'KV 


an — OOftf. 

Nicholas,  1 72. 

de    Ferucis,   of    Flor- 

sdoghtre    Mar  .net.  ."(iM). 
5     Johnson. 

John  of  Gaunt,  the  king's  son.  king 

of  Castille  and  Leon,  duke  of 

ocaster,   is.  126,   168,  262, 

.  286,  291,  386,  387,  406, 

416,  466,  467,  484,  493,  600, 

601,  ■""  i.   ~>u\. 

bailiffs    of.    at     I  lun„'erford, 

1-7. 

of  liberty  of,  in  Lan- 
cashire. .'!:;."). 

Blanche  his  wife,  48. 

chancellor  of,  in  Lancashire, 

600,  501. 

guardian  of  the  peace    and 

justice  oi  oyer  and  terminer  in 
Lancashire,  58. 

guardian  of  the  peace  in  the 

North    Riding   of    Yorkshire, 
554. 

in  the  West  Riding  of 

Yorkshire,  554. 

,  ministers  of,  in  Wales.  487. 

,  prayers  for  success  of,  224. 

,  .  .  .  .,  lieutenant     of.        See 

Xevile.  John  de. 

,  treasury  of.  records  in,  262. 

John  earl  of  Kent.  4<>3. 

Jolin,  Adam  son  of,  de  Dronnok,  262. 

See  Fitz  John. 

Jolinson,  Johanson,  Jonesson,  Jonis- 
son.  Adam,  of  Scotland,  263. 

,  Peter,  291. 

,  Richard,  of  Edstaston,    358. 

,  William,  merchant  of  New- 
castle upon  Tyne,  381. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  Zierickzee,  402. 

,  .  . .  . ,  of  Stockwith,  552. 

Jolif,  Robert,  of  Sherborne.  512. 

Jonesson,  Jonisson.     See  Jolinson. 

Jordanston,  Jordaneston  [co.   Pem- 
broke], fee  in,  191,  192. 

Josep,  John,  chaplain,  193. 

,  Richard,    of    Northampton- 
shire, 208. 

,  Robert,  218. 

Josselene,  Ralph,  360. 

Joustere,  John,  of  Middleton  Stoney, 
361. 

Joye,  John,  coroner  of  Gloucester- 
shire, 497. 

,  .  . . .,  draper,  of  London,  67. 

Cf.  Jocus. 

Julian,   George,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia, 196. 


liaco,  Robi  1 1  do,  piaster  of  the 
bos] 'itd  of  st.  .loim  of  .Jeru- 
salem and  guardian  of  Clirist'a 
poor.  :: 

Justice,  John,  of  London,  242. 

vendor  of  underwood 

in  Clarendon  p  irk,  141. 

Juyl.  Roger,  458. 


K 


Kaerwodros.     See  Caerwodros. 
Kampen,    Canape    [Holland,    prov. 
Overijssel],  12. 

,  ships  of,   12,  296. 

Kamper  [Holland,  prov.  Gilder- 
land]  ?  Caumfer,  ship  of, 
(i!)8. 

Kanolles.     See  Knolles. 

Kanut,  Roger,  burgess  of  Leominster 
in  parliament,  430. 

Karale,  Adam  de,  monk  of  Dunferm- 
line,  389. 

Karlell.     See  Carlell. 

Karlill.     See  Carlisle. 

Karlille.     See  Carlell. 

Karliol.     See  Carlisle. 

Karnell',  Karnels.     See  Carneles. 

Karsalton.     See  Carshalton. 

Kateby.     See  Cadeby. 

Katee,  Jolin,  merchant  of  Land- 
regerie,  312,  320. 

Katermayns,  Thomas,  517. 

Katerton.     See   Cater  ton. 

Kayle,  Kaylly,  Robert,  346,  470. 

Kaylesthorp.     See  Calsthorpe. 

Kaylly.     See  Kayle. 

Kaysho,  Haysho,  Thomas,  parson  of 
St.  Michael  Bassishaw,  Lon- 
don, 420,  475. 

Kechene,  John  de  la,  34. 

Cf.  Ketene. 

Kedington,  Kedyngton  [co.  Suffolk], 
77. 

Kedyngton,  Robert  de,   537-539. 

Keelby,  Kelby  [co.  Lincoln],  451. 

Keer,  John,  of  Scotland,  263. 

Kegworth,  Simon  de,  445. 

Kelby.     See  Keelby. 

Kelby,  Keleby,  Robert,  Robert  de, 
162. 

,  . . . . ,  parson    of    Helpring- 

ham,  275. 

Keldesick,  Keldsyk.     See  Kelsick. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


fifi7 


Keldre,    Keldrehavs.     See    Kielder. 
Kele,  Thomas.  231. 

Of.   Kolle. 

Keleby.     See  Kell>\. 
Kelesliam.  John,  4.'>*>.  4.'!7. 
Kellawe,  Nicholas  de,  54. 
Kelle,  John,  knight,  498. 

Of.  Kele. 

Kellesey.     See  Kelsoy. 

Kelleshull,  William,  105. 

,  . .  .  . ,  fishmonger,  of  London, 

127. 
Kelleveden.     See  Kelvedon. 
Kelsey,     South,     Soutkelleseye,    co. 

Lincoln,  manor  of,  431. 
Kelsey,  Kellesey,  Giles  de,  206. 

,  .  .  .  .,  tapicer,  of  London,  96. 

,  William  de,  62,  72. 

, ,  of  London,  209,  210. 

Kelsick,      Keldesik,      Keldsyk      [in 

Bromfield],   co.    Cumberland, 

53. 
Kelstern,  co.  Lincoln,  fee  in,  161. 
,     Calsthorpe,       Caillesthorp, 

Kaylesthorp  in,  161,  163. 
Kelthorp,  William  do,  cordwainer,  of 

London,  531. 
Kelvedon,    Kelleveden,    co.    Essex, 

521. 
Kelyngale.     See  Kyllynghale. 
Kelyngvvorth.     See  Kenihvorth. 
Kemere,   Margery  wife  of  William, 

143. 

,  William,  143. 

Kemerych.     See   Ivimmeridge. 

Kerne tmayn.     See  Commitmacn. 

Kemmes,  Jolin,  327. 

Kemoys.     See  Cemaes. 

Kempe,  Jolui,  77. 

Kempston,   co.   Bedford,  manor  of, 

188,  189. 
,  . .  .  . ,  lords     of.     See    Dau- 

beneye,    Giles ;      Pembrigge, 

Fulk  de. 
Kemsek,  Edmund,  22. 
Kemsing,   Kemsyng,  co.   Kent,  ad- 

vowson  of,  1 86. 

,  deed  dated  at,  278. 

,  manor  of,   186,  278. 

Kendal,      Kyrkohy      Kendale,      co. 

\\  i  stmoreland,  manor  of,  144. 
,  Godmund,     Long    Sleddale 

and  Staveloy   in,    49'.),    f>oo. 
,  Button  in  the  Hay,  Hoton 

and  Strickland  Kittle,  Strike- 
land  kell  in.    III. 
Kondalo,   Edward  de,  tho  younger, 

183,    184,    193. 
,  Elizabeth    \\  it'o   of   Edward 

de,  359. 


Kendale,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Edward 
de — cont. 

, knight,  156. 

, ,  the    rider,     183,     193, 

194. 
,    .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  assign 

mont     of      dower      to,      318, 

319. 
,  Maud    wife    of    Robert    de, 

301. 

,  Robert  de,  301. 

, knight,  460. 

,  knight  of  tho  shire  of 

Salop,  428. 

Thomas,  clerk,  200. 

Kene,  Hugh,  clerk,  59. 

Cf.     Keyne. 

Kengrove,  John,  knight,  236. 
Kenilworth,    Kelyngworth,    Kenille- 

worth   priory   [co.   Warwick], 

prior  and  convent  of,  219. 
,  priors   of.     See   Bradeweye, 

Henry     de ;       Warmyngton, 

Thomas  de. 

,  voidance  of,  124,  125. 

Kennet,  East,  Estkenete  [co.  Wilts], 

520. 
,  West,  Westkeneto  [in  Ave- 

bury,  co.  Wilts],  520. 
Kenredford.     See  Kirdford. 
Kensington,    Kensyngton,    co.    Mid- 
dlesex, 243,  256. 
,  Notting    Hill,     Knottyng- 

wode  in,  387. 
Kent,  county  of,  87,  201,  225,  257, 

527,  539,  541. 

,  coroners  of,  5,  194. 

,  defence  of  coast  of,  492. 

,     earl    of.        Sec    Edmund, 

John. 
,  escheator  in.     See  Illeston, 

Thomas  de. 

,  issues  of,  403. 

,  justices  in  oyre  in,  80. 

,  ....  of  the  peace  in,  445. 

,  knights  of  tho  shiro  of,  429, 

467,  636. 
sheriff  of,  5,  85,  80,  81,  103, 

194,  208,  212,  217,  2S2.  286, 

332,   342,   347.  403,  436,  443, 

.k;;>.  467,  492. 

steward     of.     Sec     Heryng, 

Nicholas. 

taxation  in.  126,  205. 

Kent.  Adam  de,  <><>. 

John.    John   de.    kind's   sor« 

jeant.   247. 
, of   Kent,  <>7. 

of  Thazted,  •~>i  i 

,  Richard,   of   Berkshire,   206. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Kent-   con!. 

Robert  brother  ol  John  de, 

\.  78. 
Thomas  de,   461 . 

\\  illiam.  of  London,  girdler, 

11  j. 
Kentbury,  Kentebury,  Robert,  78. 
Kentoombe,  John,  - 
Kentebury.     >  ■     Kentbury,    Kint- 

bory. 
Kantwode,  John,  knight,  348,  364, 

471. 
knight  of  tlio  shire  of 

Berks,  428. 
Kenynghale,  Thomas,  188. 
K<  uyngton,  Michael  de,  218. 
Keppok,  John,  4()'.i. 
Kerdeeton,      Berdeeton,      William, 

William  de,   knight,   58,   59, 

221,  232,  234. 
dyf.     Set   CSardiff. 

holomew,  360. 

Robert,   360. 

Kerl,  Thomas,  4:54.  4.35. 

William.  87. 

Kernefoid.     See   Carnforth. 

kernes,   1 70. 

Keryfilly.     See  Caerphilly. 

Iv  ateven,  Ralph  de,  clerk,  402. 

,  .  .  .  .,  rector  of  St.  Botolph, 

rlork  of  the  king's  household, 

446. 
Keston.     See  Keyston. 
Ketelfeld.     See  Catterall. 
Ketene,  Jolm.  clerk,  528. 

Of.  Kechene. 

Keterich.  Keterych,  Roger,  200,  201, 

334,  342. 
, escheator  in  Essex,  1 , 

3,  16,20,22.25,26,  31,  34,47, 

52,   120.    123,   136,   140,   142, 

147,  152,  166,  169,  172,  179, 

183,  185. 
,  ....  in  Hertfordshire, 

16,20,  140,  156,  157,  174. 
Keteryng,  Adam,  486. 
Ketilby,  William  de,  chaplain,  90. 
Keworth.     See  Keyworth. 
Keyne,   Hugeline   (Burnell)   wife   of 

Robert  le.  484. 

Cf.  Kene. 

Keynes,  John  son  of  Thomas  de,  40. 
Keynesham.     See   Keynsham. 
Keyngham,     parson    of.     See    Ive, 

Robert. 
Keynesham,  John,  539. 
Keynsham,  Keynesham  [co.  Somer- 
set], abbot  of,  307. 
Stock  Wood,   Stokwode  in, 

307. 


ston,   Keston,  oo.   Huntingdon, 
manor  of,  423. 

Keyworth,    Keworth,    co.    Nottu 
bam,  386,  :{(.»7. 

Kibworthy,  Kybworthey  in  Saffron 
W'aldon,  co.  Essox,  foe  in, 
23. 

Kidale,   Kydale,  Thomas  do,  162. 

, knight,  461 . 

knight  of  tlio  shiro  of 

Lincoln,  4'_'s. 

Kidderminster,  co.  Worcoster,  Cald- 
well, Caldewell  in,  383. 

Kielder,  Keldre  and  Keldrehays  [in 
IV I -tone],  co.  Northumber- 
land, 322. 

Kiftsgate,  Kvftesgate  hundred  [co. 
(doucester],  farmers  of.  See 
Musard,  John  ;  Wode,  Jolin. 

underbailiff  of.     See  Harlay, 

John  de. 

Kilcreen  ?  Kilt  raven  [co.  Kilkenny], 
Ireland,  46. 

Kildare,  county  of,  Ireland,  earl  of. 
See  Fitz  Maurice. 

,  sheriff  of,   10. 

Kildrummy,  Kilderney  [now  in 
Killarmery,  co.  Kilkenny], 
Ireland,  manor  of,  46. 

Kildwick,  co.  York,  Steeton,  Styve- 
ton  in,   500. 

Kilferagh  ?  Kilfetheran  [co.  Kil- 
kenny], Ireland,  46. 

Kilgerran,  Kilgarran,  Kylgarren  [co. 
Pembroke],  castle  and  lord- 
ship of,  248,  286,  297. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  constable  and  steward 

of.     See  Gyby,    Philip. 

Kilham,  Killom,  Ivillum  [co.  York], 
493,  526. 

Kilkampton.     See  Kilkhampton. 

Kilkenny  [co.  Kilkenny],  Ireland, 
castle  of,  46. 

,  mills  at,  46. 

,  parliament  at,  10. 

Kilkenny,  county  of,  Ireland,  ste- 
wards and  sheriffs  of,  111. 

Kilkhampton,  Kilkampton  [co. 
Cornwall],  fee  in,  308. 

Killahy,  Killagh  [barony  of  Knock- 
topher,  co.  Kilkenny],  Ire- 
land, 46. 

Killarmery,  Killamery  [co. Kilkenny], 
Ireland,   46. 

,  Kildrummy,    Kilderney    in, 

46. 

Killerby,  Kylwardley  [in  Catterick], 
co.  York,  manor  of,  148. 

Killesby,  Jolin,  the  elder,  466. 

Killom.     See  Kilham. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


009 


Killotcran,  Killotlicran,  co.  Water- 
ford,  manor  of,   298. 

Kilmokea,  co.  Wexford.  Great  Is- 
land, Hervyesilond,  Hound 
in,  387. 

Killum.     See  Kilham. 

Kilnsea,  Kilnse  [co.  York].  222. 

Kilpj-n,  William,  of  London,  233. 

Kiltraven.     See  Kilcreen. 

Kilvynton,  John  son  of  William  de, 
174. 

Kimberley,  Kymberlo  [co.  Norfolk], 
manor  of,  84. 

Kimbolton,  Kynebauton,  co.  Hunt- 
ingdon, manor  of,  523. 

,  soke  of,  523. 

Kimmeridge,  Kemerych,  Little  [in 
Kimmeridge],  co.  Dorset,  30. 

Kingsbury,  Kynggesbury,  co.  Somer- 
set, 123. 

Kingsclere,  Clere,  co.  Hants,  bailiff  of 
hundred  of.  See  Holton, 
Henry. 

King's  Cliffe.     See  Cliffe. 

Kingsdown  (in  Axton  hundred), 
Kyngesdoune,  co.  Kent,Hever 
Place,  Evor  in,  97. 

Kingsey,  Kyngeseyo,  co.  Bucking- 
ham, deed  dated  at,  513. 

,  manor  of,   513. 

Kingsholm,  la  Kyngeshome  by 
Gloucestre  [in  Gloucester, 
co.  Gloucester],  manor  of,  33. 

Kingsland,  Kyngeslond  [in  Dodder- 
hill],  co.  Worcester,  fee  in, 
493. 

Kingsley,  Kyngesle,  co.  Hants,  88. 

,  Kyngesley,      co.      Stafford, 

manor  of,  317. 

King's  Lynn.     See  Lynn. 

Stanley.     See  Stanley. 

Kingston,  Kyngeston  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], 110. 

[co.  Cambridge  ?],  76,  78. 

Lisle,  Kyngeston  [in  Spars- 
holt,  co.  Berks],  425,  426. 

Russell,    Kyngeston    Russell 

[in  Little  Brody],  co.  Dorset, 
manor  of,  129. 

upon  Hull,  Hulle,  Kyngeston 

upon  Hull  [co.  York],  273, 
387,  552. 

,  bailiffs  of,  54,  364. 

guardians  of  tho  peace 

and  justices  of  oyer  and  tor- 
miner  in,  465. 

,  liberties  of,  54. 

,  major  of.    54,  864.    See 

also  Polo,  Michael  de  la. 

,  port  of,  :!7'.>.  562, 


Kingston  upon  Hull,  port  of — cont. 
collectors  of  cus- 
toms   and    subsidies   in,    41, 

170,  364,  552. 
St.    Michael's     priory, 

Walter  prior  of.   562. 

ship  of.  387. 

upon     Thames,     Kyngeston 

[co.  Surrey],  251  .  4."5(>. 
Kingthorpe,  Kynthorp  [in  Apley],  co. 

Lincoln,  manor  of.   i 
King     Wood  .    [in     Margaretting]  ? 

Kyngeewode,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 

•id. 
Kinsaley,     Kynsalay,     co.     Dublin, 

389. 
Kintburv.    Kentebury    [co.    Berks], 

337. 
Kippax,  Kypax,  co.  York.  Great  and 

Little  Preston  in,  367. 
Kirby,  South,  co.  York.  Skelbrooke, 

Skelbroke  in.  452,  454. 
Underdale,  eo.  York,  Garrow- 

by,  Gerwardliy  in,  500. 
Kirdford.    Kenredford,    co.    Sussex, 

519. 
Kirkber,    Kirkebergh    [in   Appleby], 

co.  Westmoreland.  53. 
Kirkbride,  Kyrkebride,  Richard  do, 

198. 

,  ....  son  of  Richard  de,  120. 

Kirkburn,    Westbrunne,    co.    York, 

manor  of,  560. 
Kirkby  Lonsdale,  eo.  Westmoreland, 

Casterton,  Castirton  in.   144. 
Kirke,  Roger  atte,  of  Brantingham, 

272. 
William  de,  of  Lincolnshire, 

327. 
Kirkebergh.     See  Kirkber. 
Kirkoby,  William,  99. 

Cf.  Kyrkeby  in  Kendale. 

Kirkeham.     See  Kjrkham. 
Kirkelee,  Thomas,  of  Norfolk,  101. 
Kirkelerode.     See    Kirkley. 
Kirkestede.     See  Kirkstead. 
Kirkoton.     See  Kirton. 
Kirketon.        Kirkton,        Kyrketon, 

Robert  de.  527. 

Roger  de,  94,  255.  511. 

,  . . . .,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and    justice   of   oyer   and    ter- 
miner in  Lancashire, 

in  the  East 

Riding  of  Yorkshire  and   in 
Kingston   upon   Hull    465. 

in  the  East  Rid- 
ing of  Yorkshire,  655. 

in     the     \'i>rth 

Riding  of  Yorkshire, 


GENERA!     ENDEX. 


Kirketon,  Roger  do,  guardian  of  the 
peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner-  eonL 

in  the  West  Kitl- 

in_-  of  Yorkshire,  56 1. 

juetioe,  1hl>.  299,  300. 

for  the  delivery 

of  York  gaol,  :!.':!'. 

in  c\  re  in  Kent, 

5      81. 
of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Lancashire,  58,  533. 

of    the   Common 

aoh,  knight,  202. 

, to    preserve    tho 

□  Holland   in  Lincoln- 
shire. 22. 
Kirkham.   Kvrkham.  co.  Lancaster, 

250. 
Salwick,   Salwik,   Sal- 

wyk  in.  197.  365. 
Kirkeham  [co.  York],  prior 

and  convent  of.  63. 
Kirk  Langley.     See  Langloy. 

J. eat  ham.     See  Leatham. 

Kirklev,    Kirkelerode    [co.    Suffolk], 

"432,  434. 
Kirklington,     Kirthelyngton,     Kirt- 

lyngton,  co.  Nottingham,  306. 

,  deed  dated  at,  538. 

,  manor  of,  537. 

Kirkstall  [co.  York],  abbot  of,  10. 
Kirkstead,  Kirkestede,  co.  Lincoln, 

abbot  of,  161,  1G2. 
Kirkton.      See  Kirketon. 
Kirthelyngton,       Kirtlyngton.      See 

Kirklington. 
Kirton,  Kirketon,  co.  Lincoln,   173, 

395,  517. 
,  Ivirketon     by     Everwarton 

[co.  Suffolk],  manor  of,  356. 
kitchen  garden,  206. 
Kixs,  Benedict,  366. 
Knaith,  Knayth  [co.  Lincoln],   lord 

of.     See  Darcy,  John ;  Darcy, 

Philip. 
Knaptoft,     co.    Leicester,    Mousley, 

Moselowe  in,  190,  191. 
Knattishall,  Gnateshale,  co.  Suffolk, 

246. 

,  manor  of,  246. 

Knayth.     See  Knaith. 

Knechebole,  Robert,  224. 

Knesale,    Kneshale,    William,     110, 

436. 
Knightsbridge,     Knyghtebrigge     [in 

Chelsea,       Kensington      and 

Westminster],  co.  Middlesex, 

243,  256. 
#. ,  deed  dated  at,  243. 


i 


Knightebridge — cont. 

fit-Ids  named  in,  l'13. 

Knookholt,  le  Nokelte,  eo.  Kent.  97. 
Knorkin.    Knokyn   [CO.    Salop],   Los- 

trange  of .     Bee  Lestrange. 

Ivnoektophor,     Knottofro    [co.     Kil- 
kenny], Ireland.    1'i. 
Knokyn.     See  Knockin. 
Knolles.  Kanollos,  K nolle,  Constance 

wife  of  Robert  do,   194,   195, 

197. 

,  Robort  do,  102,  462. 

, ,  knight,  194,  195,  197, 

386. 

,  Waltor,  266,  271. 

,  William,  of  Dartmouth,  313. 

Knolton.     See   Ivnowlton. 
Knossington,  Knossyngton,  co.  Lei- 

cester,  manor  of,  141. 
Knot,  William,  75. 
Knottofro.     See  Knocktopher. 
Knottyngwode.     See  Notting  Hill. 
Knowle,  Church,  co.  Dorset,  Bradle, 

Bradele  in,  15. 
Ivnowlton,  Knolton,  co.  Kent,  530. 
Ivnoyel,  Thomas,  271. 
Knyght,  John,  534. 
,  . .  . . ,  parson    of    Quainton, 

114. 
Knyghtebrigge.     See  Knightsbridge. 
Knyghtley,  John  de,  430. 
,  . .  . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Stafford,  428. 
Knyhtes,  Thomas  son  of  W alter  atte, 

255. 
Knyvet,  Eleanor  wife  of  John,  418. 
,  Joan  (Buttourt)  wife  of  John 

son  of  John,  509,  510. 
,  John,  knight,  232,  245,  324, 

418,  444,  448. 
,    .  .  .  . ,   the    chancellor,     88, 

249,  259,  333,  338,  444,  448. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  . .  .  . ,  delivery  of  great 

seal  by,  466. 
,  . . . . ,  . . . . ,  fee   of  wine   of, 

8,  9. 
,  ....  son   of    John,    knight, 

509-511. 
Ivrispynk,  Ralph,  510. 
Ku,  Edmund  son  of  Joan  wife  of 

John  le,  of  Bradwell,  123. 
,  Joan  wife  of  Edmund  son  of 

Joan  le,  123. 

Cf.  Kyu. 

Kurres,  Robert,  215. 
Kybworthey.     See  Kibworthy. 
Kyd,  John,  of  Towcester,  540. 
Kydale.     See  Kiclale. 
Kyftesgate.     See  Kiftsgate. 
Kylgarren.     See  Kilgerran. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


671 


Kyll,  John,  of  Hadleigh,  439. 
Kyllynghale,  Kelyngale,  Kyllyngale, 

Jolinde.  272,  273.  278,279. 
Kyllyngwyk,  Edmund  de,  .")00. 
Kylthergayr.     See  Gelligaer. 
Kylwardley.     See   Killerby. 
Kylyngworth.  Jolinde.  draper,  516. 
Kvma,  William  de,  chaplain,  183. 

Cf.  Kyme. 

Kymbell,  Kynbele,  Kynbell,  Kvne- 

belle,  John,  of  Salden,  278. 

,  Robert.  Robert  de.  70,  78. 

Roese  (Baars)  wife  of  Wil- 
liam, 280,  281. 

,  William.  289. 

,  . . . .,  of  Buckingham,  280. 

Kymberle.     See  Kimberley. 
Kyme,  Gilbert  de,  .472. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Lincoln, '  lyster,'  84. 

Cf.  Kyraa. 

Kympton,  Hugh,  of  Eaton,  539. 
Kynardesle.     See     Kynewardesle. 
Kynbele,  Kynbell.     See  Kymbell. 
Kynebauton.     See  Kimbolton. 
Kynebelle.     See  Kymbell. 
Kynewardesle,  Kynardesle,  Thomas 

de,  74,  549. 
Kyng,  John,  214. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,   85. 

, ,  of  Fleet,   351. 

,  Thomas,  of  Tottenham.  259. 

,  William,  citizen  of  London, 

211. 
Kyngesdoune.     See  Kingsdown. 
Kyngeseye.     See  Kingsey. 
Kyngesfold,  Gyngesfold,  John,  John 

de,  71,  89,  91,  197,  245,  275, 

276,  331,  456,  457,  503,  504, 

521. 
,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Surrey,  536. 
Kyngeshome.     See  Kingsholm. 
Kyngesle,  Kyngesley.     See  Kingsloy. 
Kyngeslond.     See  Kingsland. 
Kyngesmullo,  John,  52(>,  527. 
Kyngesneuton.     See  Newton  Regis. 
Kyngestanlogh.     See  Stanley. 
Kyngeston.     See   Kingston. 
Kyngeston,     John    do,     tho    king's 

Serjeant,  542. 
,  Robert    do,    of    Middlesex, 

411.  528. 

,  William,  92. 

Kyngeswodo.     See    King    Wood. 
Kynggesbury.     See  Kingsbury. 
Kyngton,    Richard    de,    parson    of 

Sheldon,  255. 
Kynnys,  John,  of   London,  saddler, 

440. 
Kynsalay.    See  Kinsaley. 


Kynth',  Henry,  510. 
Kynthorp.     See  Kin-tliorpe. 
Iw  nton,  Thomas  de,  5 i. 
Kypax.     See  Kippax. 
KyrchiL     See  Cnchel. 
K\  rden.     Si  i  <  Suerden. 
Kyrkebride.     S&    Kirkbride. 
Kyrkeby  in  Kendale,  Robert  son  of 
Peter  de,  500. 

Cf.  Kirkeby. 

Kyrkeby  Kendale.     See  Kendal. 
Kyrketon.     See  Kirketon. 
Kyrkham.     See  Kirkham. 
Kyrkpulton.     Sec  Poulton. 
Kyrnyngton,  William,  472. 
Rues  Bardwick.     ^ee  Hardwick. 
Kyu,  William.  366. 

Cf.  Ku. 

Kyueton.     See  Cuton. 


Laasham,  William.  24. 

Labarde,     Lebard     [France,      dep. 

<  rironde],  lord  of.     See  Spare, 

Bernard  de  la. 
Lacer,    Laceer,    Alice    daughter    of 

Richard,  271. 
Katherine      de      la      Pole 

daughter  of  Richard,  272. 
Richard     son     of     Richard, 

citizen  of  London,  271. 
Lacford.  Henry  de,  96. 
Lache,  John.  199. 

Cf.  Leche. 

Lacheleye,   Esabel  wife  of  John  de, 

514. 

,  John  de.  514. 

Lacock,    Lacokes  Wyke,  co.  Wilts, 

34'.). 
Lacy,  Lascy,  Benry,  361,  -'!")3. 

,  James,  549. 

Thomas,      coroner      of      co. 

York,  310,  311. 
eden.     S  ■  Langdale. 
I 

Lakenheth.     See   Lakyngheth. 
Lakkenbj  .  William  de,  coroner  ol 

^  ork, 
Lakyngheth,    Lakenheth,    Eklmund 

de,  199,  228,  240. 
son  of  John  de.   r> 1 1, 

530. 


072 


GENERAL     [NDEX. 


Lakynu'hoth-  cunt. 

...'....  John  de,  321,  511,  530,  542, 

:.ii.  549. 
marsh,  I  ammerah,  co.  I     ex,  fee 

in.  24. 
I  ..ml..  Ti  am        Lark,  228 

Cf.  Lamb. 

Lambard,     Henry,     of     Sheepshed, 

.William,  272. 

Cf.  l.<  mbard. 

Lambeth,    Lambheth    [co.   Surrey], 
436. 

Lambilio.     Sa    Llanfuo. 

mborne.    >'<>  Lambourne. 
Lamboum,  c<>.   Berks,  advowaon  of 
ohapel  of,  25. 

Blagrave,     Blaggrove     and 

Hadley,  Eaddele  in,  141.  L42. 

Bockhampton,    Bokhamp- 

ton  in,  4. 

Eaatbury,     Estbury  in,    4, 

100,  174. 
Upper,  Uplamborne  [in  Lam- 
bourn,    co.    Berks],  141. 
Lambourne,   Lamborne,   Lambume, 

Jolin,  251. 
Robert    de,    Robert,    clerk, 

261,  253. 
, parson     of     Wimbisli, 

228,  259. 

,  Simon,  clerk,  30. 

.William,  104. 

, ,  of  Berkshire,  209. 

Lambyn,  Hugb,  236. 
Lammersh.     See  Lamarsh. 
Lamnuns,  Arnald,  burgess  of  Aard en- 
burg,  21. 
Lampadern.     See  Llanbadarn-Vawr. 
Lamport,  Langeport,  co.  Xorthamp- 

ton,  fee  in,  190. 

Houghton  in,  190. 

Lampton,  Lamptonfeld  [in  Heston, 

co.  Middlesex],  214. 
Lanbletliian.     See  Llanblethian. 
Lancaster,  Lancastre  [co.  Lancaster], 

363. 

,  deed  dated  at,  363. 

Aldcliffe,  Aldeclif  in,  500. 

,  Ashton,     Assheton,     Aston, 

Esshtonin,  38,  144,  500. 
,  Scotforth,    Scotford  in,    38, 

295,  296,  500. 

,  Stodday,  Stodagh  in,  500. 

Lancaster,    duke    of.     See    Henry, 

John. 
Lancaster,  county  of,  98,  103,  107, 

207,  359,  461,  462,  519. 
,  bailiff  of  the  liberty  of  the 

duke  of  Lancaster  in,  335. 


Lanca  tar,  ci  iuntj  of-    ooni. 

chancellor  of  John  long  of 

1  bile  .'mil  Leon,  duke  of 
Lani  a  bei  in,  103,  500,  501. 

coronera  of,  296,  :Hl',  477, 

511. 

eacheatora     in.     See    Chor- 

legh,  W  illi.un  de  :  Hog  bton, 
Richard  de  ;  Laurence,  Ed- 
mund :    Radeolif,  Richard  do. 

guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  (it  oyer  ana  tcrminor 
in.  58. 

knights  of  the  shiro  of,  429, 

635. 

sheriff  of.   14,   31,   126,  245, 

312,  477.  511,  533. 
Lancastre.  Christopher  de,  knight  of 
the  shire  ofWestmoreland,428, 
,  John    de,    brother    of    Mar- 
garet de  Layburne,  268. 
Landeford.     See   Langford. 
Landowe.     See  Llandow. 
Landreger,    Landrogerio.     See   Tre- 

^uier. 
Landwade,     co.     Cambridge,     deed 
dated  at,  460. 

,  manor  of,  460. 

,  places  named  in,  460. 

Landwath,  Andrew,  190. 
Lane,  Lone.  Hugh  in  the,  parson  of 
Kirk  Langley,  317. 

,  Richard,  13. 

,  William   in   the,    parson   of 

Wykham,  89. 
Laneman,  William,  100. 
Lanfant,  Walter,  knight,  146. 
Lang',  John,  of  London,  81. 
Langdale,    Lageden    [in   Grasmero], 

co.  Westmoreland,  144. 
Langdon,  W est,  Langedon  [co.  Kent], 
abbot  of,  530. 

,  deed  acknowledged  at,  530. 

Langedoc.     See  Languedoc. 
Langedon.     See  Langdon. 
Langefeld,  John,  329. 
Langeford.     See  Langford. 
Langele.     See  Langley. 
Langeleye,  Langele,  Agnes  de,  laven- 
der, the  king's  laundress,  542. 

,  Alice    wife    of    William,  of 

Rickmansworth,  67. 

Christina  wife  of  William,  of 

Rnowlton,  530. 

,  Geoffrey  de,  324. 

Cf.  Longeleye. 

Langeport.    See  Lamport,  Langport. 
Langeport,  Thomas,  281. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   of  Buckinghamshire, 

357. 


CIEXERAL     INDEX. 


073 


Langerigge.  See  Langrigg. 
Langeston.  See  Langston. 
Langetoft,    Longetoft,    Jolin,    chap- 

lain.  366. 

Ralph  de,  357. 

Langeton.     See  Langton. 
Langford,    Langeford,   co.    Bedford, 

manor  of,  352.  353.  426. 
,  Landeford,  co.  Nottingham, 

107. 
Little.  Langeford  [co.  Wilts], 

241. 
Langford.   Langeford,  Nicholas  son 

of  Nicholas  de,  410. 

,  Thomas,   knight,    354. 

,  knicht  of  the  shire  of 

Berks,  5367 
Langham    [co.    Norfolk],    vicar    of. 

See  Spillewynd,  Walter. 

,  co.  Rutland,   1 76. 

,  .....  lord    of.     See    Bohun, 

Humphry  de. 

, lordship  of,  176. 

Langham,     Simon    de,    cardinal    of 

Canterbury,  49,  50,  173. 
,  . .  . . ,  . . . . ,  archdeacon      of 

Wells.  106. 
,  Stephen,    Stephen   de,    199, 

234,  240. 
Langholm,  co.  Cumberland,  19. 
Langley,  Longeley  [in  Acton  Burnell], 

co.  Salop,  483. 
, advowson    of    chapel 

of,  483. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  483. 

King's,      Childernelangele, 

Langele  [co.  Hertford],  deeds 

dated  at,  280,  289. 
,  .  .  . . ,  letters  close  dated  at, 

13,  63,  282. 
,  Kirk,  Langeleye,  Longeleye 

[co.  Derby],   parson  of.     See 

Lane,  Hugh  in  the. 
Marsh,     Langeleye    Marreys 

[co.  Buckingham],  farmers  of 

manor  of,  II 
Meynell,  Langeleye  Moynill 

[in  Kirk  Langley],  manor  of, 

317. 
Langport,  Langeport,  co.  Somersot, 

87. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  87. 

Langrich,  William,  369. 

Cf.  Langrigg. 

Langrigg  [in  Bromfield],  co.  Cumb<  i- 

[and,  60. 
Langrij.':.'.   Langerigge,  John  de,  son 

of  Maud  wife  of  Thomas  son 

of  Isabel,  60. 
,  Roger,  367. 

Wt.  11824. 


Langrigg — cont. 

Cf.  Langrich. 

Langston,    Langeston    [in    Burstall, 

co.   Suffolk],   manor  of,    321, 

644. 
Langthwayt,  Alan  de,  313. 
Langton.    parson    of.     See   Norton, 

otfrey. 
(by  Spilsby),  co.  Lincoln,  fee 

in,  161. 
Langton,  Langeton.  Henry  de,  162. 

,  John.  John  do.   165,   185. 

,  Ralph  de.  31,  126. 

,  Robert  grandfather  of  Ralph 

de,  126. 
Languedoc,  Langedoc  [France],  254. 
Langworth,  Langwath,  co.  Lincoln, 

102. 
Lankastresshire,  John,  74. 
Lankeneder.     See  Llangunider. 
Lanteglos  (by  Camelford)  [co.  Corn- 

wall],  parson  of.     See  Ayles- 

ham,  William. 
Lanthony  priory  by  Gloucester  [co. 

Gloucester],  478. 
prior    of.     See    Brokworth, 

Simon  de. 

,  sub-prior  of,  478,  479. 

Lantony.     See  Llanthony. 
Lanvel,  Roger,  hatter,  68. 
Lanvhanell.     See  Llanfihangel. 
Lapworth  [co.  Warwick],  255. 

,  Sorelesfeld   in,   255. 

Lark.  William,  250. 

Larstock,     Larkestoke     [in     Stoke 

Abbas],  co.  Gloucester,  manor 

of,  255. 
Lascels.  Lassels,  Roger,  eseheator  in 

Cumberland,    119.    166. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Yorkshire,  60. 

,  Thomas  de,  6. 

,  Walter,  coronor  of  Hunting- 
donshire, 305. 
Lascy.     See  Lacy. 
Lassels.     See  Lascels. 
Lassyngby.     -s'<<   Lazenby. 
lastage,  316,  391 
Latemer.     See  Latimer. 

Lathe.    Robert.    Robert   afte.  hun:ess 

of  King's  Lynn.   82. 
, shipmaster,  196, 

197. 

of  King's  Lynn,  75. 

Latimer,  Latemer,  Latymer,  Layte- 

mere,  Thomas,  Thomas  le,  1 90, 

knight,  432. 

knighl  of  the  shire  of 

Northampton,   ">•'!<>. 
William,     William   de.     l.">7. 

L90,  271,  467,  BOO. 

ob  43 


674 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Latimer.  William — cowl. 

constable    oi     l  >o^  er 

•  le  and  warden  of  the  < lin- 

que    Porte,    12,    21,    33,    <i<>. 

102,  In:?.  129,  1  »'■'.  208,  216, 
296,  ::7T. 
keeper  of   the   king's 

forest  aorth  of  Trent,  34,  90. 

knight,  •'>•;<'. 

lord  de,  646. 

the  ohaml  erlain,  121, 

1  •_>:?.  249. 
Laton.  John,  guardian  of  tin 

in  the  North  Riding  of  York- 
shire, 666. 
latrine,  grant 
Latton,  co.   Essex,  deeds  dated  at, 

227  22  3 

fair  of.  227.  21  - 

Mark  Hall.  Merkhalle  in,  227, 

228. 
Latymer.     Set  Latimer. 
Laubron,    William,    knight    of    the 

sldro  oi   Cornwall,  537. 
Laughton,    Loghton,    co.    Leicester, 

fee  in.  162. 
,  co.  Sussex,  Halland,  J  lallond 

in.  420. 
Laules.     See  Laweles. 
Launceston.  co.  Cornwall,  fee  farm 

of,  409. 
Laundo.  Kichard  de  le.  62. 
Robert,    sheriff   of   London, 

512. 
Laundeles.  John,  91,  529. 
Launev,  John  de,  knight,  246. 
Laur',  Jolin,  291. 
Laurence,  Lauraunce,  Lorence,  Lour- 

ence,  Edmund,  38,  131,  238, 

239,  242,  243,  245,  274-277, 

500. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator    in    Lanca- 
shire, 295,  334,  375. 

,  Hugh,  520. 

,  Joan  wife  of  John,  142. 

,  John,  of  Dunton,  142. 

,  Nicholas,  82,  83,435. 

Thomas,  of  Little  Compton 

in  Hennemerssh,  72. 

,  Walter,  the  younger,  307. 

Cf.  Lawrence. 

Laurencii,  James,  196. 
Lavenham,    Henry,    246. 

,  William,  450. 

Laverton.     See  Leverton. 
Lavington,  Lavyngton,  co.  Lincoln, 

manor  of,  153. 
Law  and  administration  : — 

alien  incumbents,  enquiry  as  to, 
65. 


Law  and  administration — cotit. 

amendment  of  verbal  errors  in 

I <  . ■ ; 1 1    |  'i'i  ■cess.   !t. 

ancient  demesne,  prn  fleges  of, 
36,  309,  310. 

arrest  of  clergy  refusing  to  pay 
Bubsidy,  37. 

civic  privileges  of  Lincoln,  261. 

compulsory  contribution  to  ex- 
penses of  knights  of  the  shire, 
with  exception  of  barons,  414. 

coroners,  election  of,  with  assent 
of  county,  127. 

of  cities,  election  of,  by 

sheriff  of  county  with  assent 
of  city,  38. 

covenant  as  to  sporting  rights 
in  an  indenture,  541. 

crenellation  of  church  without 
licence,  insufficient  ground 
for  sequestration,   11. 

custody  of  records  of  duchy  of 
Lancaster,  262. 

custom  of  avoerio  in  the  court 
of  Chester,  418. 

delivery  of  great  seal,  on  death 
of  chancellor,   466. 

of   land   in   Scotland   to 

heir  by  chamberlain  of  Ber- 
wick, 416. 

deputy  keepers  of  the  great  seal, 
546. 

detenue  of  writing,  plea  of,  326. 

discharge  of  mayor  of  London 
by  the  king,  486. 

disposition  of  earldom  by  will, 
287. 

divorsion  of  customs  for  local 
repair  of  roads,  439. 

enrolment  of  sale  of  ship  in 
chancery,  245. 

exclusion  of  proof  contradicting 
previous  averment,  293. 

exemption  of  barons  from  con- 
tribution to  expenses  of 
knights  of  the  shire,  414. 

from  jury  service,  52. 

of   cloth   not  made  for 

sale,  or  made  by  small  men, 
from  taxation,  42. 

of  fish  taken  at  sea  and 

not  exported  from  subsidy,  30. 

of  goods  landed  through 

storm  and  not  for  sale  from 
taxation,  402. 

of      spiritualities     from 

ordinance  as  to  non-resident 
Irish   landlords,    311. 

extent  of  sheriff's  jurisdiction, 
326. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


675 


Law    and    administration — cont. 

fino  for  remission  of  session  of 
eyre,  81. 

forfeiture  by  persons  taking 
sanctuary.  4:>. 

guardians  of  the  statutes  of 
Winchester,  Northampton, 
and  Westminster,  .'>41. 

idiot,  alienations  by,  invalid, 
4. 

ignorance  as  to  survival  of  heir 
insufficient  cause  for  escheat, 
150. 

incapacity  of  deaf  and  dumb 
person,  268. 

incomplete  recognisance,  vaca- 
tion of,  221. 

Irish  matters  certified  into  Eng- 
lish chancery,  303. 

keeping  of  records  of  deceased 
justices,   73. 

lapse  or  withdrawal  of  chantry 
insufficient  ground  for  es- 
cheat, 36,  53. 

liberties  of  workers  in  stanneries, 
limitation  of,  380. 

lords  of  manors  to  abide  in 
manor  nearest  the  sea,  504. 

manorial  customs,   134. 

marshalsea  court,  proceedings 
in,  273. 

masters  of  the  court,  brokage 
with,  178. 

offences  not  replevisable,  431. 

payment  of  expenses  of  men  of 
In  land  coming  before  council 
in  England,  373. 

pension  for  persons  maimed  in 
the  king's  service,  45. 

pleas  concerning  lay  fees  in 
alien  courts.  376. 

position  of  priory  of  St.  John 
of  Jerusalem  in  Scotland,  298. 

privileges  of  clerks  of  chancery, 
2,  353. 

procedure  in  ecclesiastical 
courts.  200. 

proceedings  before  tho  great 
council,  1  7-'b  174. 

prohibition  of  ecclesiastical  bo- 
qi iest ration  of  goods  of  out- 
lawed clerk,   1<><». 

of   election    of   sheriff   to 

parliament,   467. 
protection  of  men  of  Florence, 

the  king's  true  slaves,  494. 
provision   of   counsel   for  alien 

litigantfl  in   Inland.   I  .'>(>. 

recc  oi   ince  made  in  <lu| »li 

for  the  chamberlain's  f co,  303. 


Law  and  administration — cont. 

regulation  of  markets,  382,  392. 

of  monastic  visitations, 

32,  33,  161. 
of  tenure  of  ecclesiasti- 
cal  lands    401,   402. 
relations    of    English    and    Irish 

chanceries,    303,    482. 
release  of  sequestration,  545. 
replevin  Of    abettors  and    har- 

bourers,   248,   263. 
reservation    of   jurisdiction   by 

mayor  of  London,  340. 
riudit    of    translated    bishop    to 

crops,    4(i.').    417. 
seizure  of  ward  into  the  king's 

hands.  114. 
summons  of  green  wax,  261. 
treasure  trove.   300. 
valuation    of    Irish    land    prior 

to  grants,  182. 
verge  of  the  household,  inquisi- 
tions within.  154. 
writ  stayed  on  ground  of  preg- 
nancy, 533. 
Laweles,  Laules   .Michael,  70,  146. 
Laweson.  John,  coroner  of  Northum- 
berland, 7.  130. 
Lawrence,  John  son  of,  do  Thorneton, 
245. 

('/.  Laurence. 

Laybume,  Margarot  daughter  of 
Nicholas  de,  deaf  and  dumb, 
268,  269. 

Thomas  do.  268,  269. 

Layer  Mai  new  I, eyre  Marnv.  co.  Es- 
sex, chantry  in  church  of,  521. 

,  manor  of.  521. 

Bam    Hall,    Berwaldon    in, 

463,  4.")."). 
Laysyngby.     See  Lazenby. 
Laytemere.     Set  Latimer. 
Lazenby.  Lassyngby,  Laysyngby  in 
Allertonshire,  co.  York,  chan- 
try and  hospital  at,  19. 

manor  of,  19. 

lead,  441.  442. 

in    Ireland,    38 

Leaden   Roding.     fife*   Roding. 
I. cake  Leeke  [co.  Lincoln],  87. 

deed  dated  at,  87. 

mill  of.  87. 

Leamington    I!  i,    Estiemyng- 

ton,  l.i  mynj  ton,  Lexnynton 
I  lastang  [co.  \\  arwick],  121, 
122. 

manor  of.   122. 

places  aamed  In,  121,  122, 

vicar      of.       's"       Aubyn, 

Richard, 


GENERAL 


.  eu\  (MllUltS  of.    -ct   (Hit.    220, 

876,    348 

Leatham  kirk  ?  I.etlium.  00. 
k,  advowBOD  of,  600. 

Lebard.     >'-<    Labarde. 

Leohe,  Nicholas  Surrugien  otherwise, 
643,  644. 

Roger,  pareon  of  Sherman- 
bury,  128, 

William,  burgess  of  Nbtting- 

luuu.  77. 

Cf.  Lache. 

Leckhampetead,  Lekhampstede  [co. 
Buckingham],  626. 

parson  of.     ><•  Barton,  John 

de. 

Ledbury,  co.   Hereford.  Wellington, 

\\  <  1\  DgtOD   in.    630. 

Ledcccin'  e.       Richard,       chaplain, 

280. 
Ledenrothynge.     See  Roding. 

Set    Leeds. 
Ledee,  Roger  de,  of  Yorkshire.  2G7. 
Ledet,  John,  369. 

Margaret  wife  of  Jolin.  369. 

Lee,  la.  co.  Berks,  manor  of,  2G0. 
Ie  Lee,  Le  Leghe  [in  Dethick- 

ciim-Leo,  co.  Derby],  68. 

,  .  .  .  .,  mills  of,  72. 

See  St.  John  Lee. 

Lee,  James  atte.  240. 

Joan  (Burnell)  wife  of  Roger 

de  la,  484. 
,  ....  wife  of  John  atto,  dela, 

464.  515. 

,  John  dela,  23. 

, knight,  464. 

,  Roger  atte.  de  la,  escheator 

in  Salop,  123,  130,  159,  171, 

296,  314. 
in    Staffordshire, 

161,  296. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  the  marches  of 

Wales,  123,  130. 

,  Walter  atte,  de  la,  269,  289. 

, ,  knight,   23,    107,   276, 

453,  455,  463. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Pershore,  242. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hertford,  536. 

,  ....  son  of  John  atte,  515. 

,  William  atte,  knight,  468. 

, of  the,  318. 

Leeds,  Ledee  [co.  Kent],  castle  of, 

constable  of.    See  Beverlaco, 

John  de. 

,  manor  of,  371. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  keeper  of,  396. 

Leeke.     See  Leake. 

Leeke,  Leke,  Andrew  de,  87. 


INDEX. 

I ..  eke    < ""/. 

[sabel  <le  Friskenay  daugh- 
ter of  Law  rence  de,  843,  •"■  16. 

Lawrence  de,  87,  842,  343. 

Maud  daughter  of  Lawrence 

de.  342,  843,  346. 

Simon,    Simon    do,    knight, 

44  f>. 

, of  Coatham,  531. 

knight  of  the  shiro  of 

Nottingham,  428. 

Cf.  Leyk. 

Leg',  Henry.  89. 

Of.    I. euro.    Leghe. 

Legat.      St  <■  beget. 

I.i  'gborne.  Legburne,  John,  344. 

of  Barton,   361. 

Legee,  Richard  atte,  armourer,  506. 
Leget,   Laget,   Legat,  Adam,  227. 

,  Emma  wife  of  Roger,  75. 

Behnyng,  Elmyng,  24,  77. 

,  .....  constable  of  Windsor 

castle,  480. 

,  .  .  .  .,  esquire,  280. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  king's  esquire,  de- 
puty   keeper   of    the    smaller 

piece  of  seal  for  recognisances 

of  debts  in  London,  207. 

,  Roger,  95,  210,  211,  250. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of   Holborn,    75. 

Legge,  John,  serjeant  at  arms,  484, 

488,  535. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  palfreyman, 

534. 
,  William,  of  London,  carter, 

258. 

Cf.  Leg',  Leghe. 

Leghe.     See  Lee,  Leigh. 

Leghe,  John,  merchant  of  Salisbury, 

88. 

,  Reynold  de,  483. 

,  Thomas  del,  23. 

Cf.  Leg',  Legge. 

Leghes.     See  Leighes,  Leighs. 
Leicester,  Leycestre  [co.  Leicester], 

200,  446. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,  279. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

430. 
,  new  collegiate  church  of  St. 

Mary,   dean  and  chapter  of, 

551. 
Leicester,  earl  of.     See  Edmund. 
Leicester,  Leycester,  county  of,  85, 

457. 

,  coroners  of,  129. 

,  escheator  in.     See  Flamville, 

Robert ;        Holte,       Walter ; 

Walsh,  Thomas. 
,  issues  of,  58. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


G77 


Leicester,  county  of — cont. 

knights  of  the  sliiro  of,  428, 

53(>. 
sheriff  of,  37,  58,  129,  154, 

200. 

taxation  in,   20G. 

Leigh,  la  Leyghe,  Leglie,  Leyghe,  co. 

Kent,  107,  115,201. 

deed  dated  at,  115. 

Leigh es,   Leghes,   Thomas,   Thomas 

de    227. 

,  .'...,  of   Shelley,    369. 

Leighs,  Leghes  [co.  Essex],  514. 
,  Great,     Great     Leyez,     co. 

Essex,  Gobions  in,  453,  455. 
,  Little,      Littlo      Leys,      co. 

Essex,  521. 
Leire,   Leyre,   co.   Leicester,  fee  in, 

190,  191. 
Leke.     See  Leeko. 
Lekhampstede.       See       Leckhamp- 

stead. 
Lelley  Dyke,  Dyke  [in  Preston],  co. 

York,  431. 
Lelly,  Joan  wife  of  Jolin,  1 3. 
Lely,  William,  195. 

Cf.  Lilye. 

Lemington,  Lower  [co.  Gloucester]   ? 

Lemyngton,     vicar     of.     See 

Cristleton,  William  de. 
Lemman,  Nicholaa,  widow,  546. 
Lemyng,    John    de,    of     Yorkshire, 

436. 
Lemyngton,    Ltmynton.      See   Lea- 
mington, Lemington,  Leving- 

ton. 
Lenche,  William,  371. 
Lenham,  Robert,  225,  260. 
Lenne.     See  Lynn. 
Lenne,  Lynne,  Nicholas  do,  65. 

,  Robert  de,   90,  450. 

,  William  de,  bishop  of  Wor- 
cester, 302. 
Lenot,  Walter,  231. 
Lenton     priory     [co.     Nottingham], 

monk  of.     See  Mari,  John  de. 
Lenveysey,  John,  157. 
Leominster,  Leoministre,  Lcomynys- 

tro  [co.  Hereford],   burgesses 

of,  in  parliament,  430,  537. 
priory,  cell  of  Reading  abl 

464. 
Leon,  king  of.     See  John  of  Gaunt. 
Lepe,  Leop  [in  Exhury,  co.  Hants], 

378. 
Lependen.     Lepyndon,    John,    237, 

158,  •">»<>.' 
Leecluee.     See  Sluj  b. 
Lescropo,  le  Sorope,  Henry,   133. 
, knight,  220,  519,  620. 


Lescroj.e- — cont. 

Margery    wile    of     Stephen, 

395,  400. 

,  Richard.  433,  ").").'{. 

, guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  North  Riding  of  York- 
shire,  6 
knight,  31,  :.-..  76,  80, 

85,  178,  222,  233. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  treasurer,  88,  249. 

Lesparre,    la    Sparre    [France,    dep. 

(dronde],  Florimund  lord  of, 

293. 

,  lord  of,  385. 

Cf.  Sparre. 

Lespicerye,  Andrew  do,  539. 
Lestrange,      Lestraunge,       Strange, 

Straunge,    Ankaret    (Boteler) 

wile  of  John,  410. 
,  Eleanor  (de  Acton)  daughter 

of  Fulk,  314. 
,  Elizabeth  daughter  of  John, 

of  Blackmere,  410. 

,  Fidk  brother  of  Hamon,  314. 

,    Hamon,     of    Chesw  ardino, 

314. 
,  Isabel  wife  of  John,  assign- 
ment of  dower  to,  378. 
,    ....   wife   of    John  son   of 

John,  of  Blackmere.  170. 
,  Joan   (Careles)  daughter  of 

Fulk.  314. 

,  John,  140,237. 

, lord  of  Walton  Day- 

ville,  455,  461. 

, of   Blackmere,   378. 

,  . . . .,  of  Westbury,  521. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  the  youn- 

r,  314,  815. 

Mabel  wife  of  John,  621. 

Margaret    wifo    of    Hamon, 

314. 

,  Peter,  knight,  194. 

of  Norfolk,  517. 

Robert,  knight,  349. 

Roger,    92,    102,    370,   455, 

461,  487. 

, lord  of  Knoekin. 

,   .  .  .  .,  of     Knoekin.     knight, 

52 1 . 
Letheringham,    Letheryngham,    co. 

Suffolk,  fee  in,  24,  26. 
Lethum.    See  Leathern. 
Leueden.     Set  Loueden. 
Leukenore,  John  de,  629. 

Thomas,  knight,  101. 

Leorard,  John,  21 5. 
Levelaunce,  Simon,  640. 
l.r\  erington,  Lev<  rj  ogton,  oo,  Cam- 
bridge, 19b." 


GENERAL     IMMA. 


o.  Lincoln 

U<1\  OW 

nvtor     of.      >'<  -      Som<T.«.h\ . 

Robert  d<>. 
South,    l..i\ erton,    Southle- 

vcrton.    00.    Nottingham,    ."ill. 

Leveryngton.     >'<-    Leverington. 

Li  rington,  Lemyngton  [oo.  Suffolk], 
.1. 
os  [oo.   Sussex],  John  prior  of, 
j '.i. 

prior  and  convent  of,  545. 

i-  II.  count  ol  Flanders,  10,  12. 
Le\T)  in'.  William.   172. 

!.•  soen,    Lezeden,   oo.   Essex,   238, 
159. 

Lcxliam.    West,    Westlexham,    co. 
Norfolk,  manor  of,  506,  507. 

Leyborne.     6f«    Libourne. 

Li        iter,  Leycestre.     See  Leicester. 

Leyo  Leyoestria,  Peter  de,  47. 

..'.....  Richard  do.  Richard,  36,  80. 
292. 

,  parson  of  Castor,  198, 

201. 

Thomas,  of  Fisherton,  468. 

,  Walter.  253. 

, the  king's  serjeant  at 

arms.  31. 

William  do.  279. 

Leye,  John,  228,  229. 

Leyez.     See  Leighs. 

Leyghe.     See  Leigh. 

Leyghton,  William,  of  Hereford, 
522. 

Leyk,  Henry,  of  Kensington,  243. 

.......  William,  281. 

Cf.  Leeke. 

Ley  land,    co.    Lancaster,    Cuerden 
K\  rdenin,  14. 

Leyre.     See  Leire. 

Marny.      See  Layer  Marney. 

Leyre,  Jolin  de,  190,  191. 

Leys.     See  Leighs. 

Leystoft.     See  Lowestoft. 

Libourne,  Leyburne  in  Aquitaine 
[France,  dep.    Gironde],    535. 

burgess  of,  484. 

Licchefeld,  Licchefold,  Lycchefeld, 
Simon,  guardian  of  the  peace 
and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Coventry,  55,  474. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  of  the  statutes  of  Win- 
chester, Northampton  and 
Westminster  in  Coventry, 
342. 

Lichfield,  Lychefeld  [co.  Stafford], 
bishop   of.     See   Coventry. 


Liddell,  LydeU  [barony,  co.  Cumber- 
land],  lady   of.     Sir.   Wake, 

Blanche. 
Liddington,   Ludyngton  [oo.  Wilts], 

\  icar  of.     8*  i  Parker,  I  lobert. 
Lidelynohe.     See    Lydlinoh. 
Lidgate,  Lydgate,  oo.  Suffolk,  manor 

ol.  187,  188. 
i       ard,  Thomas,  491. 

Of.  Lyggard. 

hti'ot.  Lyghtfot,  John,  237. 

, ,  of  Roxwell,  462. 

ry  \\  ifo  of  John,  237. 

Lilbourne,     Lilleburne,    co.    North- 
ampton, 107. 
Lilleston,  John  de,  534. 
LulewaUe,John,of  Herefordshire,353. 
Lillingstone    Dayrell,     Lyllyngston 

Dayrel,  co.  Buckingliam,  549, 

550. 
Lilyo,  William,  the  king's  serjeant- 
at-arms,  297. 

Cf.  Lely. 

Limerick,   Lymoryk  [co.   Limerick], 

staple  of,  412. 
Limousin,  Lymosyn  [France],  254. 
Lincoln  [co.    Lincoln],   84,   98,   102, 

368,  473. 

,  bailey  of,  261,  262. 

,  bailiffs    of,     172.     See    also 

Bate,     Jolin ;      Thornhaghe, 

Thomas  de. 
,  bishop  of.     See  Bukyngham, 

John  de. 

,  bowyer  of,  463. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

429. 
castle,     constable     of.      See 

Barton,  Oliver  de. 
,  court  baron  at  gate  of, 

261. 

,  citizens  of,  261,  262. 

,  fair  at,  262. 

,  fee  farm  of,  261,  262. 

,  Guildhall,  Gildhall,  the,  261. 

,  justices  at,  261. 

,  liberties  of,  261,  262. 

,  mayor  of,  1 72. 

,  merchants  of,  172,  472,  473, 

474. 
,  Newport,  Neuport  cross  and 

street,  262. 
,  St.    Mary's  church,  chapter 

of,   355. 

,  suburb  of,  261. 

Lincoln,       archdeacon      of.         See 

Ravenser,  Richard  de. 
Lincoln,  county  of,  62,  72,  76,  231, 

351,  354,  355,  361,  426,  457, 

468,  517,  552. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


079 


Lincoln,  county  of — co)it. 

coroners  of,    161,    17.'?,    301, 

393.  .ins.  497. 
eecheators    in.     Sec    But 

William;     Dymmok,    Jolm ; 

Navenby,  Thomas  de ;  Thresk, 

Ralph.  ' 

,  issues  of,  129,  130. 

,  justices  in,  94,  299. 

,  ....  of  assize  in,  312. 

to  preserve   the   peace 

in  tlic  parte  of  Holland  in,  22. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

536. 

,  merchants  of,  440. 

.sheriff  of.  37,  84,  129,  161, 

173,  327,  336.  339,  391,  393, 

398,  431,  445,  463,  465,  497, 

525. 

,  taxation  in,  42,  368. 

Lincoln,  Lyncoln.  Henry,  531. 

,  John  de.  Icing's  clerk,  470. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   of     Northumberland, 

209,  431,  432. 
,  Thomas,  draper,  of  London, 

114. 
,  William  de,  mercer,  of  Lon- 
don, 282. 
Linford,  Lynford,  Little  [co.  Buck- 
ingham], 30. 
Linkinhorne,  co.  Cornwall,  Rillaton 

in,  409. 
Linstead.  Lyndestede,  co.  Kent,  207. 
Linte,  Richard,  510. 

,  Seman,  .HO. 

Lintley,  John,  491. 

Linton,  co.  Hereford,  Eccleswall  in, 

91,   112. 
Linwood,    Lyndewode,   co.    Lincoln, 

ad  vow  son  of,  163. 
Lionel  duke  of  Clarence,  47,  96. 
Lisbon.  Lussebon  [Portugal],  13. 
Liscombe,     Liscoumbe,     Lyscombe, 

Lyscoumbe  fin  Soulbury,  co. 

Buckingham],  266. 

lord  of.     Set  Lovet,  William. 

Lisdowncy.  Lysdony  [co.  Kilkenny], 

Ireland.   46. 
\n-):ii'.-t(i\\n.      Arc]  ereston 

in.   46. 
Liakeard,  Liski  n't   co.  Cornwall,  409. 
Lismore  and  Waterford  [co.  Water- 
ford  |,   bishop  of.     Set    \u  \<-. 

'I    omaa  Le. 
Liston.  Lyston,  co.   I  93. 

advowson  of,  93,  263. 

Netherhall,  Nethermaner  in. 

!).•{,  263. 
Litellopene.     8t  i   Lo]  en 
Lithe,  William  atte,  539. 


Lithum,  Robert  dr.  clerk,  170. 

Lithyn  Lyvyng. 

LitilgoM,  John,  216. 

Litle.     Set   Little. 

Littelton.     See   Littleton. 

Littlo,  Litle,  Joan  wife  of  Robert,  64. 

John,  fishmonger,  of  London, 

280. 

Robert,   citizen  of   London, 

64. 

Thomas.  100. 

Littlecote,  John,  469. 

Littleton,  High,  Littelton,  co.  Somer- 
set, fee  in.  307. 

Hallatrow,     Haluetre 

in,  307. 

Liverpool,  Lyverpull  [co.  Lancaster], 
462. 

Llanbadarn-Vawr,  Lampadern,  co. 
Cardigan,  justices  at,   406. 

Llanblethian.  Lanblethian  [co. 
Glamorgan],  castlo  of,  306. 

,  manor  of,  306. 

Llandow,  Landowe  [co.  Glamorgan], 
fee  in.  308. 

Llanfihanuel  Penbedw,  Lanvhanell 
[co.  Pembroke],  advowson  of, 
192,  193. 

Llanfilo,  Lambilio  [co.  Brecon],  ad- 
vowson of,  2."). 

Llanfrynach,  Bemak  [co.  Brecon], 
advowson  of,  25. 

Llangunider,  Lankeneder  [co. 
Brecon]    advowson  of,  25. 

Llanilid.  co.  Glamorgan,  Rhythyn, 
Ruthynin,  306. 

Llanthonv.  Lantony  I'rima  in  Wales 
[in  Cwmj'oy,  co.  Monmouth], 
prior  of,  151.  See  also 
Gloucestre,  Jolm  do ;  Ruf- 
ford.  John. 

(').  Lanthony. 

Llyswomey.  Lyswranny,  co.  Glam- 
organ, manor  of,  327. 

loaf,   tl.ett    of,   :;!17. 

Lobenham.     See  Lubenham. 

Loci  e       See  ]  ouches. 

Lochmaben,       Loghmaban       castle 

[Dumfries-shire,       Scotland  |. 

stable  oi.      St i  Staj  elton, 

\\  illiam  de. 

Lockeslee.     See  Loxlee. 

Lockesleye.     See    Loxley. 

Lockham,   I  lokholme  [in  Basington, 
5fork],  223. 

Lockington,  e<>.  Leicester,  Reming- 
ton, I lem\  ugton  in.  1 62. 

Lodbroke,  William,  of  Btaffordsl 
206. 

Lodeford,  Jolm.  B9,  L46,  631, 


GENERAL     INDi:\. 


Lodelowe.  John  de,  knight,  430. 

knight    of   (lit-  .shin-  of 

Salop.    ; 

Law  ranoe  de,   knight . 

[lond,     Set  Loth ing land. 

leran.  >\\ran. 

hmaban.     >'--  Loclimaben. 

'imalian.  \\  illiam  de,  27,  28 

;hrygge,     >'■  i    Loughri 
iton.     >••    Laughton. 
Loistres,  William  boo  of  Robert,  221. 
Lokehann,  John,  vendor  of  under- 
wood in  Clarendon  park,  141. 

Lokesleve.        >'.  |     Lo\]eV. 

Lokholme.     >'<  <   Lookham. 

Lokton.  Agnes  wife  of  John  de.  1(53. 

John  de.  John.   163. 

,  guardian  of  tho  poaco 

in  the  North  1  tiding  of  York- 
shire. .">.">."). 

Thomas  de,  coroner  of  York- 
shire. 497. 

Loman  Clavill.  Lomono  Clavyle  [in 
Tiverton],  co.  Devon,  fees  in, 
307,  308. 

Lomb,  Jolxn,  264. 

,  William,  189. 

Cf.   Lamb. 

Lombard,  Lumbard,  Robert,  283. 

,  Roger,  burgess  of  Guildford 

in  parliament,  430. 

Cf.  Lam  bard. 

Lombardv,  Lumbardv,  men  of,  Lum- 
bards,  51,  88,  172,  174. 

,  merchants    of,    in    London, 

165,  169,  171,  182,  290,  333, 
375. 

Lomelyn,  Basil,  ship-master,  33. 

Lomelynus,  Napoleon,  9. 

Lomene.     See  Loman. 

Lond,  John,  264. 

Cf.  Lounde. 

London,  14,  33,  42,  59,  62,  63,  66, 
76-79,  81,  82,  88,  89,  93,  95, 
96,  99-101,  104,  105,  110, 
112-114,  116,  119,  126,  127, 
135,  177,  198,  199,  206,  208, 
209,  218,  222,  230-232,  235, 
241,  242,  250,  253,  269,  271, 
272,  274,  276,  279,  281-283, 
288,  292,  297,  309,  317,  323, 
329,  332,  333,  336,  337,  341, 
345,  347,  349,  350,  358,  363, 
383,  387,  391,  392,  400,  404, 
411,  437,  438,  441,  442,  444, 
445,  460,  461,  463,  465,  468, 
469,  471,  472,  485,  488,  494, 
495,  512,  516,  523-525,  530, 
534,  541,  543,  546,  553,  554, 
556. 


London      emit. 

aldermen    of,     26,    27,     833, 

486,  566.  Si  i  nl«>  Aubroy, 
John;  I '-ernes  John;  Corno- 
walevs.  Thomas;  I'Yancoys, 
Adam:  Balden,  William; 
Hatfield,  Robert;  Stahlo, 
Adam;  Twvtord,  Nicholas; 
Walworth,    William. 

armourers   of,    77,    78,    101, 

358. 

bakers  of,  206,  248. 

,  barbers  of,  344. 

,  bishop  of.     See  Courtenay, 

William ;  Northbur^h,  Mic- 
hael do  ;    Sudbury,  Simon  de. 

,  bishopric  of,  403. 

,  . .  .  .,  voidance  of,  140,  417. 

,  brewer  of,  216. 

,  butchers  of,   269. 

,  cappors  of,  75,  523. 

,  carpenters  of,  288,  349. 

,  carter  of,   258. 

.chancery    at,    82,    97,    100, 

115,  133,  206,  211,  259,  340, 
353,  435. 

,  chandlers  of,  274. 

,  citizens  of,    10,   59,   64,    75, 

77,  82,  89,  93,  106,  110,  114- 

116,  127,  132,  133,  195,  200, 
204,  207,  211,  223,  230,  232, 
234-237,  253,  256,  263,  269, 
271,  296,  303,  331,  341,  351, 
353,  357,  365,  368,  376,  391, 
413-415,  418,  420,  442,  447, 
460,  465,  468,  472,  475,  495, 
516,  521,  523,  545,  546,  550. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  service  of,  at  corona- 
tion, 157. 

,  clerk  to  receive  recogni- 
sances of  debts  in.  See 
Aubrey,  Andrew. 

,  commonalty  of,  486. 

,  common    sergeant    of.     See 

Strode,  Ralph  de. 

,  cooper  of,  350. 

,  corder  of,  515. 

,  cordwainers    of,    200,    222, 

414,  524,  531. 

,  cornmongers  of,  198,  261. 

,  coroners  of,   158,   420,   474, 

475. 

,  'correour'  of,  217. 

,  cutlers  of,  438,  459. 

,  deeds  acknowledged  at,  96, 

280,  333,  339,  441,  448. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  61,  64,  65, 

68,  71,  77,  80,  86,  89,  91,  92, 
94,  96-98,  101,  102,  107-110, 
111,  113,  114,  116,  195,  197- 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


osi 


London,  deeds  dated  at — cunt. 

200,  202-204,  200.  221,  224- 
226,  228,  231,  233.  235,  239, 
240,  243.  24S.  249.  251,  253, 
255,  257-251).  263,  26(5-2 70, 
272-279,  281,  287,  289,  32:5. 
328,  329,  331,  333-335,  339, 
340,  342,  343,  345,  340.  348, 
351,  357-359,  3(54,  307-369, 
424.  42(5.  432,  433.  435,  441, 
444,  447-451.  454,  456,  457, 
459,  461.  468,  469,  512-516, 
518,  520,  521,  527,  538,  546, 
549,  550. 

,  delivery    of    gaols    in,    by- 
mayor  and  recorder,  174. 

,  deputy      coroner      of.     See 

Morton.  Henry  de. 

,  drapers  of,  67,  114,  132,  210, 

231,  261-271,  281,  325,  424, 
495,   517,   524. 

,  dyers  of,  261. 

,  farm  of,  48,  314,  398,  502. 

,  farriers,  maresclials  of,  204, 

244,  281. 

,  fishmongers  of,   61,   67,   86, 

97,  105,  126,  127,  206,  219, 
253,  259,  266,  280,  362,  465, 
469,  512. 

,  fourbours  of,  99. 

,  French  in,  554. 

,  girdlers  of,  112,  438. 

,  goldsmiths  of,   93,   96,    106, 

195,  207,  211,  217,  269,  281, 
462,  465,  516,  545. 

,  grocers  of,  76,  84,  519. 

,  hosting  of,  67,  81,  114,  171, 

207-209,  217,  282,  333,  334, 
345,    347,    374,    444. 

,  isemonger  of,   198. 

,  jewellers  of ,  333. 

,  joiners  of,   512. 

,  law  and  custom  of,  177,  178, 

374,  377,  420. 

,  masons  of,  344. 

,  mayor  of,    14,   26,   27,    101, 

127,  158,  176-178,  317,  340, 
358,  365,  374-376,  392,  422, 
440,  463,  495,  553,  55(5,  561. 
See  also  Bury,  Adam  <!<• : 
Franceys,  Adam ;  Stable, 
Adam;  Walworth,  William; 
Wardo,  John. 

, discharge   of,    by   the 

king,  4  86. 

,  ....,  jurisdiction    of,     174, 

34H. 

,  mere  re  of,  Bl,  83,  95,  208, 

235,  236,  272,  273,  278,  282, 
468,  516. 


London — cont. 

merchants  of,  11,  13,  41,  42, 

77.  219,  222.  344,  358,  366, 
379.  404,  44o.  509,  553. 

,  ....  of    Florence    in,     173, 


182. 


440. 


of  foreign  societies  in, 


., of  Italy  in,  422. 

.,  ....  of   Lombardy  in,    165, 

169,  182,  290,  333,  375. 
.,  ....  of  Lucca  in,  419,  478. 
. ,  ....  of  Venice  in,  458. 
.,  nuns  minoresses  of,  309. 
. ,  painter  of,  51 6. 
.,  parliament  at,  285. 
.,  paternostrer  of,  281. 
.,  pepperers  of,  204,  257,  351, 

353,  522. 
. ,  peutrers  of,  78. 
.,  plea  in,    177,    178. 
.,  port   of,    49,    59,    135,    139, 

291,  502. 
. ,  . . .  . ,  collectors   of   customs 

and  subsidies  in,  41,  49,  170, 

251,  291,  501. 
. ,  .  . . . ,  ....   of  great  custom 

in,  166. 
.,  .  .  .  .,  keepers  of  the  passage 

in,  68,  332,  340,  376,  552,  556. 
. ,  .....  petty  custom  in,  1 36. 
., searcher   of    forfeiture 

in.     See  Potyn,  Nicholas. 
. ,     proclamation     prohibiting 

secret  sale  of  armour  in,  358. 
.,  recorder  of,  26,  27,  174. 
..saddlers    of,    76,    332,    341, 

44(5,  461,  550. 

.,  sale  of  sweet  wine  in,  529. 
. ,  serjeant    of.        See    Sancto 

Albano,  Thomas  de. 
.,  seal    for    recognisances     of 

debts   in,   deputy    keeper    of 

smaller  piece  of.     See  Legot, 

Helmyng. 
.,  sheriffs  of,  2.  42,  44.  47,  48, 

65-67,  69,  70,  81,  89,  90,  94, 

95,    99,    101,    112,    114,    124. 

132,  133.  139.   158,   165,   17(5- 

17S,    19S.   200.   207-210.  217, 

222,   23<>.   231,   236,   25.1,   251, 

268,  261.  263,  2(19.  273,  27 ». 

279.  281   284,  2ss.  289,  2 

293,  313,  31  1.  317.  32(1,  333, 

336,    337.    3|.i.    346   3(7.    349. 
359,   3(13.   3(15.   373,   376, 

383,  387,  391-393,  39s.    104, 

111.  414-41(1.  420,  l-'2.  431, 
435.  439  112.  II  I.  145,  462, 
4(13,  471,  474,  475,  481,  495, 


GENEKAL    INDEX. 


griffs  od 

5,  529, 
12  :.  1 1.  653,  556.  Set 
nl.-"  Aul.n  > .  John  :  Fifhide, 
John  :  I  ladle,  John  de  ; 
Launde,  Robert  j  Lyons, 
Richard  ;  i  bhampton, 

.!«'■  Stodej  e,       John  : 

\\  odehous,    \\  ilh'am. 

skinners  of,  2,  62,  342,  346, 

441. 

smiths  of,  337,  342. 

Btockfiahmongei  of,   198. 

Mil. mi  09,     101,    104. 

105,  272,  346,  35 

tailors  of,  69,  261,  .'!49,  358, 

442,  462,  325. 

tapioer  of,  96,  212. 

taxation  in,  12,  104,  105. 

vintners  of.  !•."».  1 14.  I'.i 

169,  516,  541. 

will  proved  in,  259. 

woolmongers  of,   2<>9,  281, 

343,  344. 
London,  places  named  : — 

All  Hallows  the  Great,  advow- 
son  of, 

parish  of,  108.  201,  250. 

Billingsgate,  Bill'  to,  210, 

325. 
Billiter  Lane.  Belleyetterslane  in 
St.    Michael   within  Aklgate, 
117,  118. 
Br.  Stint.       Bredestrate, 

Henry  parson  of.  1.96. 
Bride  Lane.  Briddealane,  47. 
Chancery  Lane,  Chancellerlane, 

99,   105. 
Charterhouse,   the,  Chartehous, 
tin-  house  of  the  mother  of 
God  of  the  Carthusian  order, 
287. 

,  John  prior  of,  527. 

prior   and    convent   of, 

4(H),  540. 
Cheap,  Chepe.  the,  346. 
Chichester  Rents,  the  bishop  of 

Chichester's  inn,  210. 
Christ  Church,  Crichirche,  prior 

and  convent  of,  257,  546. 
Clerkemvell,  253. 
Coldharbour,        Coldeherbergh, 

Coldherbergh,  los,  201. 
Cordwainer  Street,  Cordewaner- 
strete,   132,  230. 

,  ward  of,  132,  221. 

Cripplegate,    Crebelgate,     deed 

dated  at,  257. 
Fetter  Lane.  Faitourlane  in  St. 
Andrew,  Holborn,  95. 


London,  places  named — mxt. 

Fikettesfeld.  b<low    Lin- 

coln's  I  mi. 
Fleet,    I'l.tr   prison,    171,   211, 

242.    2(iS. 

,  warden    of,    299, 

136. 
Fleet  street.  Flestrete,  Fletetrete 

in  (lit>  Bubui  b  of  London,  274, 

543,  544. 

,  deed  dated  at,  196. 

,  road  from,  to  tho  river, 

26. 
friars   preachers,  chapter  house 

of,  council  at,  211. 
house,    inn,   manse   of, 

114,  337,  466. 
,  .  .  .  .,  chancery  at,  207, 

215,  347. 
Guildhall.    Gihall,    Gilhall,    the, 

452-454. 
Hay    Wharf,     Haywharf,     108, 

201. 
Holborn,  Holboume,  Holburne, 

75,  284,  543. 
,  deeds  dated  at,  75,  95, 

513. 
Holy  Trinity  priory,  Nicholas, 

prior  of,  495. 
,  prior  and  convent 

of,  314. 
the  Less,  parson  of.    See 

Burnham,  Richard. 
House  of  Converts,  Inn  of  the 

Converts,  147. 
,  deeds    dated     at,     99, 

105. 
,  keepers  of.     See  Ayre- 

myn,      William ;       Burstall, 

\\  illiam  de  ;    Ingelby,  Henry 

de. 
house  of  the  bishop  of  Bath  and 

Wrells  without  Temple   Bar, 

455. 
inn  of  the  bishop  of  Chichester, 

210. 
of  the  bishop  of  Exeter 

without   New    Temple     Bar, 

444. 
of   the  bishop   of   Salis- 
bury in  Fleet  Street,  444. 
of  the  earl  of  Pembroke, 

287. 
of  the  wardrobe  in  Old 

Jewry,    408. 
Lime  Street,  Lymestret,  178. 
Lincolns  Inn  (part  of),  Fiketts- 

feld,  sports  in,  210. 
lodging    of    John    de    Stodeye, 

114. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


683 


London,  places  named — con*. 

Lombard  Street,  Lumbardstrete, 
329. 

Marshalsea  prison,  19,  105,  481. 

Newgate,  Neugate  gaol.  66,  124. 
1  39,  165,  222,  230,  231,  258, 
263,  289,  337,  346,  349,  359, 
363,  431,  435,  445,  471,  481, 
506,  525,  529,  544,  553,  556. 

,  delivery  of,   174. 

Old  Jewry,  276,  408. 

Patornosterrent  in  St.  Andrew, 
Holborn,  75. 

Pesokeswharf,  515. 

St.  Andrew,  Castle  Baynard, 
parish  of,  281. 

,  Holborn,  Holbourne,  in 

the  suburb  of  London,  with- 
out Old  Temple  Bar,  deed 
dated  in  church  of,  224. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    parish     of,     75, 

95. 

St.  Antony,  St.  Ancelyn,  St. 
Atonine,  parish  of,  424, 
512. 

St.  Bartholomew,  Smithfield, 
Smethefeld,  Smythefeld, 

Smythfeld,  hospital  of,  master 
of.     See  Sutton,  Richard  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prior  and  convent 

of,  455,  551. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Thomas  prior  of, 

374,  375. 

the  Less,  Littill,  parson 

of.     See  Acres,  John  de. 

St.  Benet  Paul's  wharf,  St. 
Bennet  by  Paulcswharf, 
parish    of,    561. 

,  parson     of.       See 

Everdon,  Richard  do. 

Sherehog,  Shorog,  par- 
ish of,  414. 

St.  Botolph,  Aldersgato,  rector 
of.     See  Kesteven,  iialph  de. 

without  Aldgate,  parish 

of,  314. 

St.  Bride,  Fletstreto,  church- 
yard of,  47. 

parish  of,  47,  446. 

St.  Clement,  Candlewick  Street, 
Candolwykstreto,  parish  of, 
117,  118. 

Danes      without     New 

Templo  Bar,  parish  of,  74. 

parson     of.        See 

Crosso,  William  all' 

St.  Dunstan  in  the  Ka.^t.  I>y  tho 
Towor,  pariah  of,  515. 

in  tho  West,  by  Templo 

Barro,  church  of,  94. 


London,  places  n.rned — eorU. 

St.  John  Walbrook,  Walbroke, 
parson    of.  hull, 

Thomas. 
St.    Katharine    by    tho    Tower 

of  London,  hospital  of,  ma-i  i  r, 

brethren  and  sisters  of,  115. 

,    warden    of. 

Hermesthorp,  Jolin  de. 
Colman,    James   parson 

of,  358. 
St.   Leonard.  East  Cheap,   Est- 

chepo,  pariah  of,  546. 
St.  Margaret  Lothbury,   Lothe- 

bury,  church  of,  249. 

parish  of,  250. 

St.  Martin  in  tho  Vintry,  parish 

of,  89. 
le     Grand,     dean     and 

chapter    of    free    chapel    of, 

420,  475. 
St.    Mary    Aldermary,     Alder- 

marychurche    in    Cordwainer 

Street  ward,  church  of,  221, 

230. 

,  parish  of,  132. 

at  Hill,  atte  Hulle,  par- 
son of.     See  Berden,  Adam. 
Fenchurch,    parson    of. 

See  Hermesthorp,   Thomas. 
le  Bow,  parish  of,   132, 

230. 
le  Strand,  atte  Stronde 

without    New    Temple    Bar, 

parson  of.     See  Wymundham, 

\\  illiam  de. 
Magdalene,     Old     Fish 

Street,   Oldfishestreto,   parish 

of,  366. 
Mounthaw,  Montonhaut, 

Moimthonliaut,  parish  of,  420, 

475. 
of  Graces,  by  the  Towor, 

abbot  and  convent  of,  314,502. 
St.  Michael  Bassishaw,  Bassyng- 

hawe,   parson  of.     See  Kay- 

sho,  Thomas. 
Crooked    Lane,  Croked- 

lane.  parish  of,  117. 
Paternoster,     Patornos- 

terohurohe,  pariah  of,  271. 
within  Aldgato,  Algate, 

parish  of,  1 17. 
St.  Mildred  Bread  Street,  Bredo- 

Btrete  ward,  parish  of,  285. 
in  the  Poultry,  parish  of, 

.'575. 
St. Nicholas  llread  Stnvt.  IJrod- 

Btret,  parson  of.    SasWehreSj 

Heiuy. 


GENERAL 


London,  places  named : — St.  Nioho- 

Cole  Abbey,  Colde  Ab- 

baye,  pariah  of,  420,  475. 

St.  Obj th'a  Lane,  s.int  Syt] 
lane,  612. 

acres  [Oordwainer  Streel  |, 

parish  of,  259. 
St.   l'aul.  cathedra]  church    of, 
71,  267,  272.  276,  277,  279, 
287,  467,  463,  168   ■• 

bier    of    St.    1  j 

keiiwald   ill.   334. 

canon     of.       See 

Aldebury,  Walter. 

rum  ocation       of 

clergy  at.  348,  469. 

dean  of,  1 79.     See 

also  Appleby,  John  de. 
and  chapter 

of,  140,  314,  403. 
guard- 
ians of  bishopric  of  London.,  41 7. 
St.    Sepulchre   without   bar  of 

\\  est  amythfeld,  parish  of,  208. 
Savoy,   manor   of,   deed   dated 

at,  460. 
Shoreditch,  Schorditch,  259. 
Smithfield,  East,   Estemethefeld 

by  the  Tower  of  London,  108, 

201. 
Soper's  Lane,  Sopereslane  in  St. 

Pancras'  parish,  259. 
Temple   church,    the,    in   Fleet 

Street,  258. 
( rate  and  Temple  Bridge, 

Templebrigge,  26,  27. 
the  Tower,  194,  506. 
constable  of,  194,  506. 

See  also  Buxhull,  Alan  de. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  lieutenant  of.   See 

Chippenham,  Walter. 
,  letters   close   dated   at, 

558,  560. 
prison  in,  216,  217,  238, 

313,  386,  422,  433,  438,  439, 

442,  443,  478,  488,  495,  530, 

541,  555. 
,  the  king's  helmet  maker 

in.     See  Swynle,  William  de. 
,  tower  in,  for  custody  of 

prisoners,   121,   123. 
,  William  master  arbalas- 

ter  of,  165. 
Upper  Thames   Street,   Thami- 

strete,   Thamysestrete    in  St. 

Michael,  Crooked  Lane,   117. 
Vintry,  the,  376,  391,  415. 
Yeuwenelane,   259. 
Yrenonthehop,  the,  366. 


i.\m:\. 

I. mull. ii.  John,  268. 

William  de,  258. 

i. ».     fife   Lane. 

Longbenj  ogton,  I  i  >n^bynyngton. 
Bennington. 

I  .niigo,  John,  carpenter,  keeper  of 
the  king's  bastido  in  Sussex, 
1. 

,  Simon,   200,   225. 

William,  of  Godmanchoster, 

84. 

Lou-.  Ii  n\  ii-ton.     See  Bennington. 

Longoloye.     See  Langley. 

Longeleyo,  John  son  of  Robert,  of 
Stoke  by  Nay  land,  205. 

,  Peter,  205. 

,  Robert  de,  chaplain,  483. 

Cf.  Langeleye. 

Longenolre,  William,  William  de, 
burgess  of  Shrewsbury  in 
parliament,   430. 

,  .  .  .  .,  coroner  of  Salop,  497. 

Longetoft.     See  Langetoft. 

Longeville,  John,  190,  191. 

Longevillers,  Longvilers,  Longvillers, 
Agnes  (Cromwell),  sister  of 
Thomas  de,  54,  55,  56,  134. 

,  John,  John  de,  55,  56,  1 34, 

396. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  knight, 

56. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John  de,  55, 

56,  134. 

Longford,  co.  Derby,  Hollington, 
Holynton  in,  317. 

Longtown  alias  Ewias  Lacy,  Ewyas, 
co.  Hereford,  castle  of,  305. 

,  lordship  of,  305. 

Longvilers,  Longvillers.  See  Longe- 
villers. 

Lopen,  Great  Lopene  [co.  Somerset], 
manor  of,  229. 

,  Little,  Litellopene  [in  Lo- 
pen], co.  Somerset,  264. 

Lopeneford,  Nicholas,  265. 

Lorchoun,  John,  64. 

Lorddye,  William,  510. 

Lorence.     See  Laurence. 

Lorymer,  John,  64,  243. 

Loryng,  Roger,  511. 

Lospital,  Bydan  de,  149. 

Lostoke,  William  de,  69. 

Lostwithiel,  Lostwythiell,  co.  Corn- 
wall, 409. 

Lothingland,  Lodynglond,  co.  Suf- 
folk, hundred  of,  246. 

Louches,  Loches,  Adam,  kinght,  471. 

,  John,  of  London,  114,  353. 

,  Thomas,      of      Oxfordshire, 

471. 


GENERAL 

Loudham,      Isabel       daughter      of 

William  de.  mm  of  Flixton, 

354,  355,  356. 
,  Thomas  brother  of  John  de, 

404. 

William  do,  knight,  366. 

Cf.  Loutheham,    Ludham. 

Loue,  Reynold,  438. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  116. 

,  .  .  .  .,  merchant  of   London, 

11. 
Loueden,     Leueden,     Thomas,     the 

king's  serjeant,  325. 
Louekyn,  Adam.  236. 

,  .  .  .  .,  citizen  of  London,  237. 

,  .  .  .  .,  grocer,    420,    475. 

,  Katherine  (de   Ely),  wife   of 

Adam,  420,  475. 
Louell,  William,  74,  75. 

Cf.  Lovel. 

Louemunstre.     See  Lyminster. 
Louendale,  John,  clerk,  of  Kent,  68. 
Loueth.     See  Louth. 
Louetoft.     See  Lovetot. 
Lough,  John,  coroner  of  co.  Somer- 
set, 5,  497. 
Loughrigg,  Loghrygge  [in  Grasmere], 

co.  Westmoreland,  144. 
Loughton.     See  Luton. 
Lound,  co.  Suffolk,  246,  247. 

,  advowson  of,  247. 

,  deed  dated  at,  247. 

See  Lund. 

Lounde,  Gerard  de,  329. 

,  Ralph  de,  272. 

Cf.  Lond. 

Lourence.     See   Laurence. 

Louth  [co.  Louth],  manor  of,  238, 

239,  243. 
,  Ash,     Asshe    in,    238, 

239,  243,  245. 
,  Castlering,    Castelryng 

in,  238,  239,  243. 
Park  [in  Louth,  co.  Lincoln], 

abbot  of,  161. 
Louth,  Loueth,  Uriel,  county  of,  546, 

552. 

,  sheriff  of,  10. 

Louthe,  Joan  wife  of  Robert  de,  512. 
,  Juliana  wife  of  Robert  de, 

482. 
,  Richard  do,  bailiff  of  Barton, 

451. 
,  Robert   de,    446,    464,    482, 

531. 

,  . . . .,  joiner,  512. 

Louthoham,     John     <lc     tin-     elder, 

knight,  226. 
,  .  .  .  .,  the    yonn   i  i.    knight, 

225. 


IXDEX.  685 

Loutheham — cant. 

Cf.  Loudham. 

Louthor,    Louthre,    Agnes    wife    of 

Robert  de,  :598. 
Eugh  de,  escheator  in  West- 
moreland. 411. 
John  son  of  Hugh  de,  knight 

of  the  shire  of  Westmoreland, 

535. 
Lovayno,  Loveyne,  Margaret  wife  of 

Nicholas  de,  29:5.  41 !. 

Nicholas,     Xieholas      do, 

knight,    Hit,    108,    109,    111, 

201,  411. 
Loveday,  Amy  wife  of  Roger,  301. 

,'Roger,  301. 

Lovel,  Lovell.  Jolui,  knight,  96,  258, 

432,  538. 
,  .  .  .  .,  lord     of     Titchmarsh, 

513. 

Cf.  Louell. 

Loveryk.  Thomas,   296. 

Lovet,  Lowet,  Alice  wife  of  William, 

446. 
,  John,    of   Buckinghamshire, 

442. 
,  William,  lord  of  Liscombe, 

256,  257,  446. 
Lovetot,  Louetoft,  Hamon,  219,  280. 

,  Henry,  218. 

Loveyne.     See  Lovayne. 
Lowes  [near  Hatwhistle],  co.  North- 
umberland, forest  of,  507. 
Lowestoft.  Leystoft,  Lowystoft,  co. 

Suffolk,  246. 

,  bailiffs  of,  126. 

Lowet.     See  Lovet. 

Lowick,  Lufwyk  [co.  Northampton], 

360. 

1  )rayton  in,  247. 

Lowystoft.     See  Lowestoft. 
Loxleo,    Lockeslee,    Loxlo,    Robert, 

73,  245.  364. 
knight  of  the  shire  of 

Surrey.    429. 

Loxley.   Lockesleye,   Lokesleye,  co. 

Warwick,  466,  4(>i. 
Lubenham,  Lobenham[co.  Leicester], 

parson    of.       So-    Wodoford, 

Richard  do. 
I. oca.  Si  <  I. urea. 
Lucas.   Luke  son  of  John,   of  Great 

I  tunmow,  224. 
William.    360. 

Lucca,  Luca  |  Italy],  4".'!. 

merchanta  of,  393,  422,  509. 

in  London.  419,  478* 

Luce.     See  Luke, 
Lucy,  Ant hony  de,  1 69. 
,  Geoffrey,  knight,  499< 


CKXEKAL     INDEX. 


Lucy — cout. 

Joan  daughter  of  Anthony 

do.  1 
-\\  ife  of  Anthony    do, 

Fohn,  John  do,  228,  178,  179. 

Ifaod  (de  Dzniraun  Die)  sis- 

ter  of  Anthony  de,  160. 

Rol  art,  WO. 

Thomaa  son  of  William,  66. 

William.  William  de,  In-other 

of  Thomaa,  66,  66. 

knight,  WO,  560. 

Luda,  Amice  motiber  of  John  de,  89, 

John  do,  89,  92. 

Loddington,  oo.  Lincoln.  Garthorpe, 
■  rlethorp  in,  447. 

Ludelaghe.    >'<<  Ludlow. 

Ludham,  John  do,  1 14. 

Cf.  Loudham. 

Ludlow.  Ludelaghe  [co.  Hereford], 
464. 

Ludyngtan.     See  Liddington. 

Luffeld.     See  Luffield. 

Luflenham,  [North],  co.  Rutland, 
advowson  of,  25. 

Luffowyk,  Lufwik,  Jolin  de,  keeper 
of  Brigstock  park,  158. 

, ,  of  Stratford,  115. 

,  Robert,  of  London,  333. 

,  William,  William  de,  of  Man- 
ton,  176. 

Luffield  Abbey,  Luffeld  [co.  Bucking- 
ham], prior  and  convent  of, 
115. 

Lufwik.     See  Luffewyk. 

Lufwyk.     See  Lowick. 

Lughteburgh,  Lughtburgh,  Wil- 
liam de,  243,  511. 

Lughton.      See  Luton. 

Lugwardine,  Lugwardyn,  co.  Here- 
ford, manor  of,  164,  530. 

Luke,  Luce,  Nicholas,  merchant  of 
the  Albertini  in  London, 
440. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  the  fellowship  of  the 

Albertini,  172. 

,  .  . . . ,  ....  of  Florence,  472, 

474. 

Lukes,  merchants  of  the  fellowship 
of,  525. 

Lukes,  John,  servant  of  Thomas 
Serland,  2,  44. 

Lulbao  [Spain  ?],  ship  of.  291. 

Lumbard.     See  Lombard. 

Lumbardy.     See  Lombardy. 

Lund,  Lound  upon  the  Walde  [co. 
York,  E.  R.],  272,  273,  278. 

,  . .  . . ,  manor  of,  278. 


Lund    ■oont, 

the,  by  St.  I '.res',  co.  Cumber- 
land, chantry  at,  58. 

Lupyete,  John,  parson  of  Backwoll, 
306. 

LusaebozL     See  Lisbon. 

LutelbromfakL     See  Bromfield. 

Luterell,  Andrew,  kniglit,  361. 

Luton  [  eo.  Bedford]  ?  Loughton, 
Lughton,  328. 

Lutte,  William,  121,  122. 

Lutteleye,  Joan  (Haym)  wife  of 
Richard  de,  163. 

,  Philip     de,     escheator     in 

Gloucestershire,  29. 

Richard  de.  163. 

Lutterworth  [co.  Leicester],  36. 

Lvcehefeld.     See  Licchefeld. 

Lvchefeld.     See  Lichfield. 

Lychet,  Philip,  72. 

Lydd,  Lyde,  co.  Kent,  207. 

,  Scotney,  Scoteneye  in,  207. 

LydelL     See  Liddell. 

Lydford,  West,  Westludeford,  co. 
Somerset,  fees  in,  307. 

Lydgate.     See  Lidgate. 

Lydlinch,  Lidelynch  Baret  [co. 
Dorset],  271. 

Lye,  Maud  atte,  74. 

Lyggard,  John,  of  West  Clandon,  288. 

Cf.  Ligeard. 

Lyghtfot.     See  Lightfoot. 

L\  Ide,  Agnes,  210. 

Lyle,  John  le,  of  Scotland,  263. 

Lyllyngston.     See   Lillingstone. 

Lymage,  Lymyng  [in  Great  Staugh- 
ton],  co.  Huntingdon,  manor 
of,  188,  189. 

Lymbury,  co.  Hereford,  manor  of, 
530. 

Lymbury,  Stephen,  of  Northamp- 
tonshire, 204. 

Lymeryk.     See  Limerick. 

Lyminster,  Louemunstre,  co.  Sussex, 
519. 

Lymnour,  Henry,  merchant,  209. 

,  William    brother  of  Henry, 

209. 

Lymosin.     See  Limousin. 

Lymyng.     See  Lymage. 

Lynchelade,  William,  mercer,  of  Lon- 
don,   95. 

Lyncoln.     <See  Lincoln. 

Lynde,  Ellis  de  la,  307. 

,  John,  274. 

Lyndestede.     See  Linstead. 

Lyndewode.     See  Linwood. 

Lyndon,  co.  Rutland,  manor  of,  505. 

[in  Bickenhill],  co.  Warwick, 

255. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


»is7 


Lyndon,  John,  283. 

Lynford.     See  Linford. 

Lynford.  John  son  of  John  de,    of 
Sherrington,  8. 

Lyng,  co.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  230. 

Lyng',  John  de,  of  Norfolk,  436. 

Lynger,  Jolin,  of  Oxfordshire,  67. 

Lynham,  John,  cordwainer,  of  Lon- 
don, 200. 

Lvnn,  King's,  Lenne  [co.  Norfolk], 
75,  498. 

,  bailiffs  of,  127,  364. 

,  burgesses  of,  82,  196. 

,  coroner  of,  297. 

,  mayor  of,  127.  137,  364,  498. 

,  port  of,  49,  379. 

, collectors    of    customs 

and  subsidies  in,  170,  364, 
379,  498.  See  also  Dockyng, 
John  ;  Normanton.  Richard 
de ;  Tolbothe,  Geoffrey. 

,  ships  of,  196. 

,  taxation  of,  137. 

Lynne.     See  Lenne. 

Lynstede,  John  de,  clerk,  395,  477. 

Lynton,    Ralph,     coroner    of  Cam- 
bridgeshire, 187. 

Lyons,  Lyouns,  James,  of  Middlesex, 
552. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  king's  Serjeant  at 

arms,  31. 

,  Richard,  41,  173,  207,  259, 

291,  383,   387. 

,  citizen  of  London,  10, 

93,  263,  303,  376,  391,  415, 
416. 

,  .  .  .  .,  merchant  of  London, 

379,  580. 

, ,  of  London,  135,  136. 

,  .  .  .  .,  sheriff  of  London,  259. 

Lyorman.     See  Lyrman. 

Lyoun,   Peter  Oter  de,  of  London, 
534. 

Lyouns.     See  Lyons. 

Lyrman,  Lyorman.  Nicholas,  510. 

,  Robert,    610. 

Lyscombe,     Lyscoumbe.     See     Lis- 
combe. 

Lysdony.     See  Lisdownoy. 

Lysle.     See  Insula. 

Lyston.     See  Liston. 

Lysurs,  John,  of  North   Muskham, 
107. 

Lys-wTanny.     See    Llyswomey. 

Lytelton,  Thomas  de,  of  Worcester- 
shire, 335. 

son  of  Thorn  335. 

Lythegraynes,  John  <!<•.  knight,  19. 

I.\  tl\  Dgton,    William   <l<\   of   Cam- 
luidgesliiro,     66, 


Lyveden,    Thomas.    24. 
Lyver])ull.     See    Liverpool. 
Lyvyng,  Lithyng,  Rog<  r,  214,  215. 


M 


Mabedrud,  Mabudrud,  co.  Carmar- 
then, commote  of,  408,  4n7. 

Malxdv.  John,  son  of  Richard  son  of 
Margaret  Bister  of  Richard  de 
Braundeston,  142. 

Mabudrud.     See  Mabedrud. 

Mabwynion,  Mabwynyan,  co.  Cardi- 
gan, commote  of.  400,  407. 

Macchynp;.     See  Matching. 

Macclesfield.  Maoclesfeld  [co.  Ches- 
ter], lordship  of,  407. 

Mackeneve,  William.  William  de, 
knight,  260. 

Madarega,  John  Rono  de,  master, 
21)1. 

Maddyngle,  Maddynglee,  Tliomas 
de,  king's  clerk,  74,  269. 

Maeundevylle.     See   Maundeville. 

Magot,  John,  83. 

,  Roger,  chaplain.  79. 

Maheu,   Mayheu,   Mavu.  John,  269. 

, groom    of    the    king's 

chamber,  378. 

,  Simon,  200. 

Walter,    208. 

Maidenwell.  Maidewell,  Maydinwell 
[in  Farforth],  co.  Lincoln, 
102. 

,  deed  dated  at.   229. 

manor  of,  22!). 

Maids  Moreton.     See  Moreton. 

.Maidstone.  MavoVstan.  Mavdeston 
[co.  Kent'].  21  s.  342. 

Maillio,  John  Martinea  de,  ship 
master.   291. 

Maine,  Mayne  [France],  254. 

Majorca,    island    of,    Maioriea.    Mulo- 
i,  Sex -nt  Max  lorq'.  shi])3  of, 
I,  82,  196. 

Makei'atlie.  Tliomas  de.   500 

Makwillam,    Thomas,    pepperer,    of 

London.  204. 

Mddon  [co.   I  ■'.  --■  1 1.  hospital  of.  t'»7. 

keepers    of    pa-    I    •     in    port 

of,  63. 
Maldon.  John,  of  Essex,  230 

Thoma  .   89. 

Maleleone.     8e»  Maulean, 


GENERAL     INhF.X. 


ranayni         s       Mahnaynes. 
Malem<  > ti>.    Malmayns,    Mahneyns, 
Thomas,  Thomas  de,  ki i 
5  71,  278,  332. 
Malenfaunt,  William,  191,  192. 
Male]  •  Malpas. 

Malewaj  ii.  Malewej  a,  Male\n  vn.  Jojui 
wife  ci  \\  illiam,  149,  519. 

John,  John  de,  clerk,  51 '.'. 

esquire,     im. 

Milliard.   Richard,   510. 
Malketon,  Malkton.     >, .    Malton. 
Mailing,  West,  MaHynges,  <■<>.  Kent, 

deed  dated  at,  327. 
Mahnaym    .    Malemaynee     Mahnay- 
maner  alias  Moo  in  Stoke 
[CO.     Kent],    manor    of,    271, 
273,  332,    156,  533. 
Malmayns.      St  <    Maleme\ns. 
Mahneebury,   co.   Wilt^.  abbot  and 

convent  of,   1 1  •">. 
Mahneyns.     Set  Malemeyns. 
MaJogres.     Set  Majorca. 
Malore,  Giles,  181,  294,  490,  491. 

.Joan    wife    of    Giles,    181, 

294. 

,  Stephen,  162. 

Malpas,  Malepas,  Hugh,  198. 

,  ....  son  of  I  )a\  id  do,  362. 

,  John,  burgess  of  Northamp- 
ton in  parliament,  537. 
malt,  171,  208,  209,  383. 
Malteby,  Robert,  441. 
Malton,  Malketon.  Malkton,  Melke- 
ton     [in    Orwell],    co.    Cam- 
bridge, G6,  250,  323,  549. 
Malton,  John  de,  chaplain,  233. 
Malvern,     Little     [co.     Worcester], 

prior  of,  493. 
Malyns,  Malyn,  A  vice,   143. 

,  Nicholas,  143. 

,  Reynold,  knight,   513. 

Mamcestre.     See   Manchester. 
Man,   Isle  of,  currency  of   Scottish 
coins  in,  203. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord    of.     See    Monte 

Acuto,  William  de. 
Manceby,  Robert  de,  23. 
Mancestre.     See  Mancetter. 
Mancestre,  Manchestre,  Geoffrey  de 
BrokusJole    son    of    Juliana 
daughter  of  Guy  de,  35. 

,  Guy  de,  knight,  35. 

,  Margaret  daughter  of   Guy 

de.  35. 

,  William.  80. 

,  ....    Prilly    son    of     Lucy 

daughter  of  Guy  de,  35. 
Mancetter,  Mancestre,  co.  Warwick, 
manor  of,  35, 


Manchester,  Mamoeetre  [co.  Lancas- 
ter!.  Hulme,  Holme  in,  328. 
Manchestre.     Set   Manceetxe. 
Mandyon,  John,  of  Hadleigh,  62. 

son  of  John,  62. 

ruliana  wife  <>f  John,  62. 

Manors,  John  son  ol  Robert  de,  301. 

Manfe,  Richard,  101. 

Manningtree,  Manytre,  co.  Essex, 
L99,  350. 

deed  dated  at,  350. 

Mannyng,  John,  233. 

Mansfield,  Maunsfeld,  co.  Notting- 
ham, manor  of,  keepers  of, 
109. 

Manston  [co.  Dorset],  460. 

.Mantel,  Mauntel.  Edward,  143. 

John  son  of   Walter,   8. 

Manton  [co.  Rutland],  40,  176. 

chantry  at,  master  of.     See 

Ridlyngton,  William. 

Manyngford,  Jolin,  323,  324. 

,  ....  son  of  Roger,    550. 

,  Roger,  207,  323,  324,  550. 

Manytre.     See  Manningtree. 

Manytre,  John,  81. 

Mar,  John  de,  of  Scotland,  263. 

marble  columns,  297. 

,  tombs  of,  59. 

Marcadel.  Francis,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia, 291. 

Cf.  Mercader. 

March,  earl  of.  See  Mortuo  Mari, 
Edmund  de;  Mortuo  Mari, 
Roger  de. 

March.  William,  of  Sotterley,  354- 
356. 

, atte,  75,  95. 

Marchal.     See  Marshall. 

Marchaunt,  Markaunt,  John,  of 
Hunsdon,   123. 

,  Robert,  knight,  226. 

,  William,  of  Eastbury,    100. 

Marcheford,     John    de,    parson    of 

Wakerley,   519. 
Marchi,  Mark,  Peter,  Lombard,  174. 

,  .  .  . . ,  merchant      of      Lom- 

bardy.  of  Florence,  in  London, 
165,  182,  183,  290. 

,  . . .  . ,  of  the  fellowship  of  the 

Albertini,  172,  252. 

,  . . . . ,  ....  of  Florence,  440, 

472,  474. 

,  Thomas,     de     Strozzis,     of 

Florence,  473,  474. 
Marden,  Merdenne,  co.   Kent,  hun- 
dred of,  371. 
Mare,  la.     See  Delamero. 
Mare,  John  de  la,  knight,  241,  323, 
362,  367,  432,  518,  521,  528. 


CJEXERAL    INDEX. 


G89 


Mare,  John  de  la — cont. 
,  knight  of  the  shiro  of 

Somerset,  536. 

, of  Wilts,   429. 

,  Peter  de  la,  knight,  397. 

knight  of  tlio  shire  of 

Hereford.  428. 

,  Robert  de  la,  knight.  520. 

.  knitiht  of  the  shire  of 

Wilts.    536. 

,  Thomas  de  la,  354,  355. 

Mareschal.     Mareschall.     See     Mar- 
shall. 
Maresfield,     .Man  st'eld,    co.     Sussex, 

101. 
Maresshalholm.     See   Holme. 
Maresshall.     See   Marshall. 
Mareys,   John,   22. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chaplain,    271. 

Cf.  Meresco,  Mersh. 

Margaretta  House,  Maydenhouse  [in 

Clenchwarton,    co.    Norfolk], 

508. 
Margarette,  William,  of  Yarmouth, 

346. 
Mari,  Mery,  John  de,  monk  of  Len- 

ton,    290. 

,  Moriel  de,  436,  438,  458. 

Cf.  Mery. 

Mariot,  Maryot,  Geoffrey,  of   Gam- 

lingay,  283. 

,  Thomas,  265. 

Mark.     See  March i. 
Markaunt.     See  Marchaunt. 
Markby,  Markeby  [co.  Lincoln],  73. 
Market  Bosworth.     See  Bosworth. 

Overton.     See  Overton. 

markets,  382,  392.    See  also  Cluppen- 

ham,  Clonmel,  Mendlesham. 
Mark  Hall,  Merklialle  [in  Latton],  co. 

Essex,  227,  228. 
Markham,  Robert  de,  chaplain,  256. 
Markshall,  Merkessale  [co.  Norfolk], 

288. 
Marks  Tey.     See  Tey. 
Marlebergh,    Marleburgh,    Cauntelo 

de,  coroner  of  Wiltshire,  159. 

,  Henry,  chaplain,  446. 

,  Richard  de,  251. 

,  Thomas.  204. 

Marlere,  Henry  ]'n.th<  i-  of  1 1  mrh  do  la, 

354. 
,  Hugh    brother   of    Geoffrey 

do  la,  354. 
Marlesf  ord,  co.  Suffolk,  manor  of.  514. 
.  .  .,  lord     of.     See     Sake- 

villo,  Thomas  de. 
Manny  on,  (lame  de,  L62. 
Marny,  Alice  (Lacer)  wife  of  Robert 

do,  knight,  271,  335,  340. 

Wt.  11824. 


Mp.rny — cont. 

,  Robert,    Robert  de,  kniplit, 

22,  240,   335,   340,  45:!,  464, 
513,  521. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Essex,  429. 

William,  goldsmith,  of  Lon- 
don. 465. 

Marresey.     See  Mattersey. 

Marshall,        Marchal,  Mareschal, 

Mareschall,    MareshaU,    Mar- 
schal,  Edmund,   5:59. 

John,   359. 

,  .....  of  Norfolk,   528. 

Margaret,  countess  of  Nor- 
folk, 387,  499,  533. 

, ,  dame     de     Ma- 

weny,  387. 

,  . .  . . ,  . .  . . ,  dame  do  So- 
grave,   135,  333,  348. 

, lady  of  Chep- 
stow and  fanner  of  the  lord- 
ship of  Abergavenny,  487. 

,  Peter,  366. 

,  Richard,  459. 

, ,  of  London,  347. 

,  Robert,  22. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the   elder,    of    Wolde, 

107. 

.Thomas,    chaplain,    527. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Somerset,  42 '.). 

,  William,  101. 

Marshwood,  Mersshwodevale,  co. 
Dorset,  manor  of,  90. 

Marston,  Maston,  co.  Lincoln,  manor 
of,  13. 

Mart,  Robert,  mariner,  541. 

Martel,  Martell,  Martillo,  John,  325, 
453,  455,  464,  514,  515. 

Robert,    19S,   2<i2,   226. 

,  Thomas,   22. 

Martin,  merchant  of  Pistoja,  419. 

Simon  son  of,  de  Holboch, 

coroner  of  Lincolnslnro,   393. 

Cf.  Marty n. 

Martines,  John,  do  Maillio,  ship 
master,  291. 

Martoek.  .Mcrtok,  co.  Somerset,  329. 

('..at.  Cote  iii.  80,  87. 

Stapleton,  Btapelton  in,  36. 

Martyn.  Alexander,  424. 

Alice     wife     of    Aloxander, 

424. 

,  Rwhard,  115,  461. 

clerk.    90. 

William,  79,  4 

lord   of    (Vmaos,    386. 

bailiffs  of,  386. 

, of    Leicester,  446. 

on  44 


C1H) 


GENERAL     IXM'.V 


Mortyn.  William — eonf. 
parson  of   Little  1  lal- 

Ijngbaiy,  278,  -7 

Zanoby,    0 

Mam  anet,  John,  526. 

[bhn,  of  London,  6  13. 
Mary.     >■■    Iffari. 
Marvcit        S  Ot. 

seal,  Felicia  wifi     •    Roger,  548. 

Roger,  548. 

Ilashbury,    liaaahebery,   oo.    Essex, 

feea  in,  22,  23.  ' 
•ii.  Merdeaf en  [in  Ponteland],  oo. 

Northumberland,  607. 

offrey,  oi  Ware.  543. 

Roland,  of  Banton,  335. 

ahebery.     Set   Maahbury. 
jy,    Rol  erl .   3 16. 

....'. of  Warwickshire,  337. 

Massyngdene.     x       Mlssenden. 
Ifassyngham,  Alexander  de,  of  \\ 

\\ , ili. iii.   chaplain,   342. 

Nicholas  de,  102,  516. 

Cf.  Messyngham. 

Maaton.     Set    Marston. 

MatcliiiiLT.  Mxeehvng.  co.  Essex,  fee 

in.  22. 
Mat->.    Peter  do.   363. 
Mateinee  in  Saffron  Walden,  co.  Es- 
sex  24. 
telok.     See  Matlock. 
Mat  hern  [co.  Monmouth],  manor  of, 

351. 
Mathersay.     See  Mattersey. 
Matlock.  Matelok  [co.  Derby],  fee  of, 

68. 
Mattersey,  Marresey,  Mathersay,  co. 

Nottingham,   68,   72. 
Mattesford,  Mattisford,  Jolm,  John 

de,     escheator     in    Cornwall, 

33,  409. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in     Devon,      33, 

148,  167,  232,  308,  312,  409, 

416. 
Mau,  John,  551,  552. 

,  Robert,   215. 

,  William,  the  king's  serjeant, 

165. 
Mauclerk,  John,   304. 
Mauaan.     See  St.  Maughan's. 
Maugrith     in     Great     Paxton,     co. 

Huntingdon,  423. 
Maukyng,  William,  510. 

Cf.  Mockyng. 

Maulay,   Peter  de,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  in  the  East 

Riding  of  Yorkshire,  465.  555. 
Mauleon,    Maleleone    [France,    dep. 

Basses-Pyrenees],  deed  dated 

at,  114. 


Maimeell.     See  Maunsel. 
M.unnle\ill(>,      Maeundevylle.     Anno 

wife  of  Thomas,  the  youngor, 

217. 

Thomas,  Thomas  de,  324. 

,  knight,  263,  267,  271, 

276. 

,  .  .  .  .,  tho  elder,  kniidit,  22. 

the    yoimgcr,    knight, 

218,  217. 
Maunsel.    MauncelL    Kobcrt,   cutler, 

of    London,    459. 

morcor,  of  London,  83. 

Maunser.    Robert,  clerk,   62. 
Maunsfeld.     See  Mansfield. 
Mauntel.      Sec    .Mantel. 
Manny.     Mawony,    dame    de.      See 

Hastynges,     Anno     wife      of 

John  ;  Marshall,    Margaret. 
Mautravers,  Agnes,  251. 
,  ....  wife  of  John  the  elder, 

145,   157,   184,   185. 
Eleanor   daughter   of    John 

son  of  John,  184,  185. 
,  John,  73,  74,  184,  185,  271, 

531. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  elder,  145. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  younger,  145. 

Maweny.     See  Mauny. 

Maxtoke,  Maxstoke  [co.   Warwick], 

prior  of,  512. 
May,  Robert,  258. 

,  Thomas,  the  elder,  196. 

Cf.  Mey. 

Maydecroft.     See  Maydencroft. 
Maydekyn.     See  Maykyn. 
Maydencroft,    Maydecroft   [in    Hit- 
chin],    co.    Hertford,    manor 

of,  183. 
Maydenhouse.         See        Margaretta 

House. 
Maydestan.     See  Maidstone. 
Maydestane,   Henry  de,   Henry,   of 

Kent,  218. 
,  .  . .  . ,  of     London,     skinner, 

342. 
Maydeston.     See  Maidstone. 
Maydinwell.     See  Maidenwell. 
Mayham,     Mayhamme.     See    May- 

tham. 
mayhem,  appeal  of,  94. 
Mayheu.     See  Maheu. 
Maykyn,  Maydekyn,  John,  100,  534. 

,  .  . .  . ,  the  king's  seamen,  232. 

Maynard,  Henry,  361. 

,  Stephen,   99,   100. 

Mayne.     See  Maine. 
Maynorsullen.     See  Silian. 
Maystre,  John,  of  Hatfield  of  York- 
shire, 424. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


091 


Maytham,  Mayham,  Mayhammo, 
Maythamme  in  Rolvonden, 
co.  Kent,  manor  of,  271,  273, 
456,  533. 

Mayu.     See  Maheu. 

Meatli.  co.  Meath,  bishop  of.  See 
Valle,   Steplien  de. 

Meatli.  county  of.  Ireland,  54G,  552 

,  crose  of,  10. 

,  liberty  of,  10. 

,  . . . .,  steward  of,  10. 

,  sheriff  of,  10,  152. 

Meaux,  Thomas  de,  of  Billinghay, 
95. 

Mebburne,  Thomas  de,  treasurer  of 
the  duke  of  Brittany,  385. 

Cf.  Mod  bourne,  Melbourne. 

Mechain  Is  Coed.  Meghein  Iscoid, 
commote  of  [co.  Montgomery], 
50. 

Uwch    Coed,    Meghein   Ugh- 

coid,  commote  of  [co.  Mont- 
gomery], 50. 

Medbourn,  Medburne  [co.  Leicester], 
76,  257. 

Medbourne,  Medebourne,  Henry, 
clerk,  207.  259. 

Cf.  Mebburne. 

Medburne.     See  Medbourn. 

Mede,  Michael  atte,  520. 

,  Thomas,  542. 

Medebroke,  John,  446,  531. 

Medebourne.     See  Medbourne. 

Medham,  Hamelin,  245. 

Medmenham,  Hugh,  of  Hampshire, 
526. 

Meeles.  Nicholas  de,  mayor  of  Pres- 
ton, 245. 

Cf.  Moeles. 

Meer,  Merehall  in  Playford  [co. 
Suffolk],  manor  of,  321. 

Meesden,  Mesden,  co.  Hertford, 
manor  of,  503. 

Meggo,  William,  merchant  of  Bor- 
deaux, 296. 

Meghein.     See  Mechain. 

Melbourne,  Meldebume,  co.  Cam- 
bridge,  157. 

,  Argentoms  in,  157. 

Melbourne,  William,  knight  of  the 
shire  of  Surrey,  536. 

Cf.  Mebburne. 

Melchet  forest  [co.  Wilts],  vend  ore 
of  underwood  in.  See  Husee, 
Richard  ;     Bhottere,    John. 

Melcombo  Regis  [co.  Dorset],  bailiffs 
of,  365. 

,  port  of,  collectors  of  cus- 
toms and  subsidies  in,  170, 
365, 


Meldebume.     See  Melbourne. 

M<  Idntli.    Melroth,    co.    Cambridge, 

157,  354,  360. 
Melford,  Long  [co.  Suffolk],  93. 
, |  arson   of.     See    Gry- 

mesby,  Thomas  de. 
Meliacius,     Ponoius,     merchant     of 

Catalonia,  196. 
Melkelond,  John.  510. 
Melketon.     See  Malton. 
Melle,  John  atte,  coroner  of  Sussex, 

412. 

Cf.  Mille,  Milne. 

Melling,    co.    Lancaster,    Neville    of 

Hornby  in,  513,  535. 
Mells,    Mollis    [in    Wenhaston],    co. 

Suffolk,  manor  of,  234. 
Mellyng.     See  Ealing. 
Melreth.     See  Meld  ret  h. 
Melrethe,  Philip,  clerk,  102,  324. 
Melsa.     See  Meux. 
Melton,  Great,  co.  Norfolk,  manor  of, 

169. 
Mowbray,  Melton  [co.  Leices- 
ter], 396,  457. 

See  Milton. 

Melton,  Geoffrey  de,  M.A.,  of  Oxford, 

476. 

,  Robert  de,  Robert,  146. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  clerk,  343. 

,  . .  . . ,  of  Leicestershire,  435, 

545. 

Cf.  Milton. 

Meltonby,    Meltynby    [in  Pockling- 

ton],  co.  York,  560. 
Mendham,  co.  Suffolk,  advowson  of 

priory  of,  394. 

,  manor  of,  395. 

Mendlesham,  co.  Suffolk,  510. 

,  deed  dated  at,  511. 

,  fair  at,  509. 

,  manor  of,  509. 

,  market  of,  509,  510. 

,  mills  at,  509. 

,  places  named  in,  509,  510. 

Mentemoro,  Michael  de,  555. 

Menyll.     See  Meynill. 

Merawo,  Nicholas,  460. 

Mercador,     Francis,     merchant     of 

Catalonia.  196. 

Cf.  Maroadel. 

Mercator.  Reynold.  510. 

Mercer,  Piers,  clork,  notary  public, 

114. 
Marcher,  William,  3 
Merdeley,  Thomas  de,  3(11. 
Merdenne.     See   Maiden. 
Mi -ni. ■-.'.  n.     >■  -   Mason. 
Mere,  Richard  de,  Hrrk,  of  Glouces- 
tershire, 8 


GENERAL    ENDEX. 


More — r 

Thomas  de  Is,  ISO. 

Men- Court.  Mere  [in  Mlenamore, 

Hereford  1.  manor  of,  361 . 
M<  rehalL     Si  i    Meer. 

elaund.     >■•    Merlaunde. 
Mara,  John  son  of   Roger  de,  the 

elder,  817. 
Robert  de,  oonstable  in  the 

parts  <>f  Holland  in  Linooln- 

Bhire,  extortions  by,  22. 

I  :■  <j> t  de,  of  Kit  ton.  61  7. 

Mereeoo,  Robert  de,  of  Lancashire, 

lit: 

cj.  MareyB,  Mersh. 

M<  riet.     Sa   Marriott. 

Meriet,     Meryet,    John,    John    <\c. 

knight,  72.  73.  74,  229,  307, 

821. 
son    of    John,    knight, 

120,  283-266. 

Maud  wife  of  John,   120. 

the     elder,     233, 

264,   268. 
M  rioneth,  Meryonnyth,  county  of, 

408,  400.' 
Merk.  Clement,  tho  king's  serjeant, 

440. 

Richard  atte,  08. 

Roger  de,  24. 

Thomas,  Thomas  de,  22,  24. 

M(  rkeasale.     See  Markshall. 
Merkhallo.     See  Mark  Hall. 
Merlaunde.   Merelaund,  John,   Jolin 

de,  323,  433. 
Merlawe,  John.  522. 
Merlay,  John  de,  John,  551,  552. 
Merle,  P.,  114. 
Merley,     Robert    de,     chaplain,     of 

Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  531. 
Merriott,  Meriet,  Moryet  [co.  Somer- 
set], advowson  of,  203,  521. 

,  deed  dated  at,  203. 

,  fee  in,  307. 

,  manor  of,  203,  521. 

,  mill  in,  205. 

,  places  named  in,  204,  205. 

,  street  of,  204. 

Merryfield,   Murifeld    [in  Ilton],   co. 

Somerset,    manor    of,    111. 
Mersey,     Thomas,     master     of     la 

Edmond,  of  Harwich,  75. 
Mersh,  Merssh,  John,  208. 
,  Robert      del,      burgess      of 

Stafford  in  parliament,  537. 

,  Stephen,  224. 

,  ....  atte,  of  London,  218. 

,  William  atte,  110. 

Cj.  Mareys,  Meresco. 

Mersshton.     See  Merston. 


Mersshwodevale.     8m   kfarahwood. 
M.  raton,  Mersshton,  John  de,  433, 
812. 

William       do.       parson       of 

Bomerton,  lis. 

Mertok.     <s'<  e  afartook. 

.Milton  [co.  Surrey],  priory  of, 
Robert  prior  of,  367.  Seealso 
Wyndesore,  Robert  do. 

,  threatened     burning 

Of,  -2-1-1. 

Merton,  \urnes  (de  Brightle) 
(lauL'litcr  of  Margaret  wife  of 
Kichard  do,  292. 

,  ....  daughter  of  Maud  wife 

of  Richard  do,  292. 

Joan  (BaunaUe)  daughter  of 

Richard  de,  292. 

,  Richard  do,  292. 

,  William,  544. 

Mery,  John,  303. 

Cj.   Mari. 

Moryet.     See   Meriet,    Merriott. 

Moryonnyth.     See   Merioneth. 

Afesden.     See  Meesden. 

Messager,  Gilbert,  of  Harlaxton,  472. 

Messenden,  John  do,  coroner  of  co. 
Northampton,  150. 

Cj.  Missenden,  Mussenden. 

Messing,  Messyng,  co.  Essex,  deeds 
dated  at,  234,  240. 

,  manor  of,  1 72. 

Harborough     Hall,     Harde- 

bourghalle,     Hardeburghalle, 
Herdebourghalle  in,  234,  240. 

Messyngham,    Robert,    472. 

,  Roger   de,    of    Lincolnshire, 

547. 

,  Simon  de,  84. 

Cj.  Massyngham. 

Metesharp,  Ralph,  510. 

Metham,  Elizabeth  (Stapelton)  wife 
of  Thomas  de,  38.  59. 

,  Thomas  de,  Thomas,  329. 

,  knight,  38,  59,  513. 

Methelane,  Thomas,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don,  447. 

Methelay,  William  de,  of  London, 
tapicer,  212. 

Methewold,  John,  of  Norfolk,  209. 

,  WTilliam,  301. 

Mettingham,  Metyngham,  co.  Suf- 
folk, 234. 

,  castle  of,  234. 

Meulynges,  Remigius  de,  190,  191. 

Meux,  Melsa  [in  Wawne,  co.  York], 
abbot  of,  223. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  80. 

Mevenydd,  Mevenyth,  co.  Cardigan, 
commote  of,  400. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


603 


Mewes,  William,  291. 
Mey,  John.   150. 

of  Binsted,  441. 

Michael,  of  Slays,  245. 

Of.    -May. 

Meynell  Langley.     See  Langley. 
Meynill.  Menyll,  Hugh  de,  317. 

, knight,  207. 

Joan  wife  of  Richard,   31 7. 

332. 
,  .  .  . .,  assignment    of   dower 

to.  318. 

,  Richard,  knight,  317,  332. 

Meysham,  Thomas,  207. 
Meysy,  John,  335. 
Michael,  Oger  son  of,  23. 
Michaelscourt.     See  Mychcll's  Court. 
Michaelstow,  Mighelstowe  [co.  Corn- 
wall], Roger  parson  of,  199. 
Micham.     (See  Mitcham. 
Michel,  John,  259. 

,  . .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  357. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  London,   119. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  vintner,     of     London. 

114,  198,  469,  541. 

,  Nicholas,  196. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Coventry,   55. 
,  Robert,  of    Spalding,   clerk, 

coroner  of  Lincolnshire,  391. 

William,  224. 

Michelbromfeld.     See  Bromfield. 
Middelburg,  Middelburgh  in  Seland 

[Holland,    Zeeland],    seal    of, 

498. 
Middelton.     See  Middle  ton.   Milton. 
Middelton,      Middilton.       Midelton, 

Midilton,  Hugh  de,  85,  364. 
,  John,  John  de,  64,  234,  236, 

237. 

,  Robert  do,  112,  222,  444. 

,  Thomas  de,  canon  of  Ferns 

and     prebendary     of     Cross- 

patrick,  447. 

,  .  .  .  .,  citizen  of   York,   433. 

,  clerk,  62,  179. 

, parsoD     of     Hacknov, 

266,  319. 
, of     Ruddington, 

475. 

Of.  Milton. 

Middlesex,   266.   267,    334,   426. 
escheator  in.       See  Illeston, 

Thomas  de. 

,  farm  of,  314. 

knights  of  tho  sliiro  of,  429, 

536. 
sheriff  of,  70,  133,  200,  311. 

376,  524. 


M  idd  lose  x — co  nt. 

,  taxation  in,  42. 

Middleton,    Middelton,    co.    Suffolk, 

ad  vow  son  of,  806. 

,  manor  of,  305. 

Cheney,     Middelton     Choin- 

duyt,       co.       Northampton, 

manor  of.  358. 
,  North,     Middelton     MoroU, 

co.  Northumberland,    35,    36. 

,   .....  chantry  at,  36. 

Stoney,  Middelton,  Midlyng- 

ton  [co.  Oxford],  355,  361. 
Tyas,    Midleton,    co.    York, 

manor  of,  144. 
Middlewich,  co.  Chester,  407. 
,  parson    of.     See    Franceys, 

Thomas. 
Midelton.     See  Middelton. 
Midgal,     Miggel     [in     Chelvy],     co. 

Somerset,  fee  in,  307. 
Midgham,  Migham  in  Fordingbridge, 

co.  Hants,  manor  of,  335. 
Midilton.     See  Middelton. 
Midleton.  Midlyngton.     See  Middle- 
ton. 
Miggel.     See  Midgal. 
Miggel,  Avice  daughter  of  Ellis,  510. 

Ellis,  510. 

,  John,   510. 

,  Mabel    daughtor    of    Elli?, 

510. 

,  Robert,  510. 

Migham.     »SVe  Midgham. 
Mighelstowe.     See  Michaelstow. 
Miuiboun,  Geoffrey  Mor  fitz  Henry, 

304. 
Milan,  Italy,  merchants  of,  422. 
Milbourno,     Milleburno,     North     [in 

Ponteland],  co.  Northumber- 
land, 507. 
Mildenhalo,     John,     carpenter,     of 

Cambridge,  447. 

,  Peter,  512. 

,  .....  of     London,     skinnor, 

2. 

,  William,  336. 

Millo,  Walter,  490. 

, justico    in    Pombroko- 

shiiv.   506. 

Of.  Mrllc  Milne. 

Milleburne.     N<<    Milbourne. 

mills,  4(1.  (is.  72,  77.  82,  87,  201,  21;.-,. 

32:5.  407,  408,  411,  424,  4l'0, 

.-.0:1.  510,  •"»■">•'{.  656. 

destruction  of,  413. 

fulling,  los.  201. 

water,  85,  108,  163,  iso,  201, 

214,  349,  419. 
,  wind,    122,  246. 


<.i:\i:i:  \i. 


Milne,  Mull,',  I  del,  de  la.  194. 
ol  Mitoheldean,  194. 

Robert    att<\   chaplain,    l  18. 

Oj   Melle,  Mill...' 

Milner.  John,  441. 

....  Roger,  55  l. 
Milton  (by  Qraveaend),  Melton,  eo. 
Kent,  134,  r 

manor  of,  i'l . 

I'arroeks.    Parrok     in. 

434,  435. 

(I>v  Sittingbourne).  co.  Kent. 

71. 

bandied  of,  371. 

Lbbas,    .Milton,    co.     I  )c! 

abbot  and  convent  of,  248. 
19. 
Clevedon,  Milton,  co.  Somer- 
set, manor  of,  .'in3. 

Keynes,   Middelton  Keynes, 

co.  Buckingham,  deed  dated 
at.  3.14. 
Milton.  Rolx^rt.  222. 

Thomas.  242. 

Of.   Melton,  Middelton. 

Milverton,  Milwirton,  co.   Warwick, 

107. 
Mimburv.  Mvmbury  [in  Ramsbury, 

co.  Wilts],   i.  142. 
Mimms.    Xortli.     Mymmes,    North- 
immmes,    co.    Hertford,    83, 
198. 

,  . . .  .,  manor  of,  100. 

South,    Southmvmmes,    co. 

Middlesex,  83,  198. 
Miners,  Popard  de,  325. 
mines,  421. 

of  gold  and  silver  in  Ireland, 

312,  355. 
Minsterton.     See  Misterton. 
Mirfeld,  Mi  refold.  William  de,  clerk, 
71,  70,  100,  198,  204. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  West  Riding  of  York- 
shire, 554. 
Mirvman,  John,  tailor,  of  London, 

358. 
Misavised,  John  Smyth  of  Little 
Dean  called  Sir  Richard,  194. 
Missenden,  Great,  Massyngdene, 
Mussenden  [co.  Buckingham], 
abbey  of,  abbot  of,  abbot 
and  convent  of,   329. 

,  .  .  .  . ,      William    abbot     of, 

401. 

,  Ballinger,    Baldynghore    in, 

24. 
Missenden,  John  son  of  Roger  de,  77. 

,  William  de,  77. 

Cf.  Messenden,  Mussenden. 


i\Di:\. 

Misterton,  Minsterton,  oo.  Loicestor, 

manor  of,    198,  202. 

Poultney,  Pulteneye  in,  107, 

lo<».   L98,  201,  202. 
Mist  lev.  Mystele  [oo.  Essex],  350. 
Mistreton,  Roberl  de,  238,  242,  243, 

245. 
Mitcham,  Mioham,  co.  Surrey,  339. 
Mitcheldean,     Magna      Dene,      co. 

Gloucester,  lit*.  445,  456. 
Mite,  Myte,  John,  530. 

pulter,  438. 

Mitford,  co.  Northumberland,  17. 

,  castle  of,  20,  506,  507. 

.hospital,    Mitfordspitel    at, 

17. 

,  manor  of,  1  7,  506,  507. 

Aldwortb,  Estaldeworth  and 

Molesden,   Mollesdon  in,  507. 
,  Edington,  Idyngton  in,   53, 

54. 

,  Espley,  Espele  in,  20. 

Mitford,  John  de,  507. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northumberland,  535. 

Cf.  Mutford. 

Mi  ton,  Hugh  de,  of  Yorkshire,  340. 
Mochnant,  Moghenant,  commote  of 

[co.  Denbigh],  50. 
Mockyng,  John,  435,  545. 
,  William    brother    of    John, 

435. 
,  ....  son   of   Walter   de,   of 

Sussex,  434. 

Cf.  Maukyng. 

Modbury,  Motbury,  co.  Devon,  prior 

of,  497. 
Modyngham.     See  Mottingham. 
Modysprot,  Roger,  89. 
Modes,  John  de,  242,  243. 

Cf.  Meeles. 

Moghenant.     See  Mochnant. 

Mohaut.     See  Monte  Alto. 

Mohun,  Joan  de,  of    Dunster,   520, 

521. 
Moigne,  Henry,  Henry  de,  147. 

, ,  knight,    124. 

,  John,  190. 

,  ....  son  of   Henry,    147. 

, ,  knight,    114. 

.William,    knight,   230,    538, 

539. 

,  ....  son  of  Henry  de,  124. 

Mokelyngton.     See  Mugdon. 
Mold,  Alice  wife  of  Peter,  208. 

,  Peter,  208. 

Cf.  Monte  Alto. 

Mole,  Richard,  491. 

Molesden,  Mollesdon  [in  Mitford],  co. 

Northumberland,  507. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


005 


Molland  Botreaux.  co.  Devon, 
manor  of,  239. 

Mollesdon.     See  Bfoleeden. 

Molton.  John,  skinner,   358. 
Cf.  Multon. 

Molyneux.  Richard  le,  500. 

Molyns.  Henry,  Henry  de,  73,  74,  110, 
229. 

William,  William  de,  knight, 

244,  357. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of    Buckingham- 
shire, 114. 

Molynton,  John  de,  of  Salop,  524. 

Monboucher,  Monbuichere,  Bertram, 
knight  of  the  shire  of  North- 
umberland.  535. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  Northumber- 
land, 299. 

Monceaux,  Monceux,  Mounceaux, 
Amandus,  coroner  of  Cumber- 
land, 169.  393. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cumberland,  535. 

Monde,  Bichard,  332. 

Mondy,  Isabel  wife  of  John,  548. 

,  John,   548. 

Monewden,  Monuwedene,  co.  Suffolk, 
manor  of.  451. 

Monemouth,  John  de,  coroner  of 
Herefordshire,    30. 

Monk,  Munk.  John,  chaplain,  485. 

,  Richard,   of  Wiltshire,    88. 

Thomas,  288. 

Monks  Risborough.    See  Risborough. 

Monkton.     See  Moormonkton. 

Monnington  Stradel,  Monyton  [in 
Ycwchurch,  co.  Hereford], 
manor  of,  350. 

upon    Wye,    Monvton   upon 

Wye  [co.  Hereford"].  79. 

Monselowe.     See    Munslow. 

Montacute  [co.  Somerset],  prior  of, 
90. 

Monte  Acuto,  Mountagu,  John  de, 
551. 

, alias  de  Hatfeld,  463. 

, ,  knight,  257,  258. 

,  William  de,  earl  of  Salisbury, 

421,  484,  501,  502. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  captain    of    the 

fleet,  385. 

,  . .  . . , lord  of  the  Iele 

of    Man,    80,     87,    203,     255, 
291. 

,  ..... ,  the  father,  421. 

Monte  Alto,  Mohaut,  Isabel  wife  of 
Johnde,  76,  78. 

,  John  de,  of  Kyngeeton,  76, 

78. 

Cf.  Mold,   Mounthaut. 


Monte  Porta,  John  de,  duke  of  Brit- 
tany,  count  of  Montfoii  and 
earl  of  Richmond,  102,  158, 
254. 

,   lieutenant       of. 

See  Novillo.  John  de. 

, treasurer  of.  See 

Mebburno,  Thomas  de. 
Cf.  Mountfort. 

Montfort  [France,  dep.  Seine  et 
( Hee],  count  of.  See  Monte 
Forti,  John  de. 

Mont  Valour,    114. 

Monuwedene.     See    Monewden. 

Monynton,  Hugh  de,  112. 
Walter  de,  abbot  of  Glaston- 
bury, 147. 

Monyton.     See  Monnington. 

Moor,  More  by  Fladebury  [in  Flad- 
bury],  co.  Worcester,  255. 

Hall.  Morchalle  [in  W little], 

co.  Essex,  manor  of,  235. 

Monkton,  co.  York,  Scaggle- 

thorpe,    Skakelthorp  in,    500. 

Moorend,  Morend^.  tho  Morende  [in 
Yard  ley  Gobion],  co.  North- 
ampton, 419. 

,  castle  of.  419. 

,  f  armer  of.    See  Ipre,  John  do. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  90. 

Moorton.     See  Moreton. 

Mor,  Geoffrey,  fitz  Henrj.  Migiboun, 
304. 

Mordak.  Robert,  parson  of  Winter- 
bourne,  29. 

Mordaunt,  William,  coroner  of  co. 
Bedford,   4  9. 

Mordeford.     See  Mordiford. 

Mordon,  East,  Estmordon,  co.  Dor- 
set, manor  of,  184. 

See  Guilden  Mordon. 

Mordon.     See  Mordon. 

Mordiford,  Mordeford,  co.  Hereford, 
3. 

,  Frome  in,  164. 

Mordon,  Morden,  Alice  wife  of  Simon 
de.   117. 

Benry  de,   64,    186. 

Simon  de,  92,  362. 

citizen  of  London,  117, 

253,  266. 

William,   109,  551. 

More.     See  Moor. 

More,  Adam  fttte,  660. 

, esoheator    in    Dorset, 

15,  19,  3().  33.  1  13. 

in    Somerset,     1, 

ti.  .!:!.  36,  40. 

lohn,  John  at  to,  John  in  lo, 

4  1 9. 


AM 


GENERAL     INDIA. 


'•>!m  --<•>;./. 
merchant.      1 1  & 

son   oi   Thomas   atte, 

130    Lfl 

verderer    En    \\  incisor 

forest,  187. 

Nicholas  bod  of  William  de 

la,  taught,  235. 



Hamas,  Thomas  atte,  139. 

justice  in  Pembroke- 
shire, 

son    of    John    del,    of 

Liverpool,  462. 

IforehaUa     Set  Moor  Hall. 

Korende.     Set    Kfoorend. 

.-.  Bugh  de,  275,  276. 

Of.  fllorioeby. 

Moreahohne.     Set   nfourholm. 

oforeske  [in  St.  Clement's,  Truro],  co. 
Cornwall,  manor  of ,  409. 

Moreton  Corbet,  Morton  [co.  Salop], 
Corbet  of,  79. 

vicar    of.      See    Grey, 

Thomas. 

.Maids.  Moorton,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, 281. 

South,  co.   Berks,   Fulscote, 

Foulscote  in,  401. 

Moreton.     See  Morton. 

Morewell,  John,  of  Suffolk,  541. 

,  Thomas,   knight,    514. 

Morf,  Henry  son  of  John,  296. 

Morgannwg,  Morganou  in  Wales  [co. 
Glamorgan],  receiver  of,  417. 

Morice,  John,  burgess  of  Cambridgo 
in  parliament,  430. 

,  ....  son  of  John,  of  Cam- 
bridge, 282. 

Of.  Moris. 

Moriceby,  Christopher  de,  166. 

,  Isabel   wife    of    Christopher 

de,  166. 

,  Margaret  de,  1 66. 

Of.  Moresby. 

Moris,  Morys,  Agnes,  96. 

,  Andrew,  545. 

,  John,  62,  498. 

Cf.  Fitz  Maurice,  Morice. 

Morlaix,  Morlas  in  Brittany  [dep. 
Finisterre],  captain  of.  See 
Beaumaners,  Robert. 

Morland,  co.  Westmoreland,  Little 
Strickland.  Stirkeland  in,  53. 

,  Nowby,  Neweby  in,  500. 

Morlas.     Sec  Morlaix. 

Morleye,  Morle,  Robert  de,  knight, 
227. 

,  William,  William  de,  knight, 

451,  467. 


\i- tI.>\ o,  William    ooni. 
the  long's  marshal  in 

Ireland,  389. 
morl  d'ancestor,  assize  of,  -120. 
mortmain,  lioenoe  in,  5 1. 
statute  of,  16,  19,  47,  294, 

183. 
Morton,  co   Derby,  Woolley,  Wolloy 

in.  226. 

See  Moreton. 

Morton.  Mok  ton.  Henry  de,  deputy 

coronor  of  London,  158,  393. 

,  John,  John  de,  350,  376. 

clork,  222. 

Robert  de,  376,  524. 

Roger  de,  merchant  of  York, 

419.  478. 

,  William,  252. 

Mortuo    Mari,    I'Mmund   de,   earl   of 

March  and  Ulster,  11,  96,  258, 

418,  460,  487,  532. 
, ,  marshal  of  Eng- 
land, 70. 

,  son  of  Roger  de,  56. 

,  Philippa  de,   the  elder,   the 

countess    mother    of    March, 

487. 
,  ....  wife    of    Edmund    de, 

earl  of  March,  96,  460. 
,  Robert,  Robert  de,  knight, 

194,  246,  247,  552. 

,  Roger  de,  earl  of  March,  56. 

Mory,  Richard,  of  Clerkenwell,  253. 
Moryoux,  Murrieux,  Thomas,  Thomas 

de,  knight,  337. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  the    son,    knight,    45, 

46. 
Morys.     See  Moris. 
Mose.     See  Moze. 
Mose,  Margaret  do,  23. 
Moselowe.     See  Mousley. 
Mot.     See  Motte. 
Motbury.     See  Modbury. 
Motesfont.     See  Mottisfont. 
Motte,  Mot,  John,  510,  527. 
Mottingham,    Modyngham    [in   Elt- 

ham,  co.  Kent],  manor  of,  36. 
Mottisfont,   Motesfont   [co.    Hants], 

parson     of.       See    Popelton, 

John  de. 
Moubray,  Elizabeth  wife  of  John  de, 

377. 

,  Johnde,  370,  377. 

,  .  .  . .,  justice  to  deliver  Ox- 
ford gaol,  39,  320. 

,  . . . .,  of  Axholme,  18. 

,  .  .  .  .,  parson  of  Ripley,   19. 

,  ....  son    of    John    de,    of 

Axholme,  knight,  280. 
,lord  de,  138,  144. 


(iKNERAL    INDEX. 


697 


Moulton.    Multon,    co.    Lincoln,    73, 

299,  300,  43T. 

,  .....  John  vicar  of,   457. 

, manor    of,    270,    299, 

337,  424. 

,  Multon,  co.  Norfolk,  400. 

,  . .  .  . ,  manor  of,  400. 

,     .  .  .  .,      co.      Northampton, 

fee  in,  190. 
Moulton.     See  Multon. 
Moumford.  Nicholas,  510. 

Cf.  Mount  fort. 

Mounceaux.     See  Monceaux. 
Mounpeliers,  Joan,  545. 
Mounsorell.     See  Mount  Sorrell. 
Mount,  Godesalo,  529. 

,  Thomas,  clerk,  521. 

Mountagu.     See  Monte  Acuto. 
Mountayn,  William,  clerk,  298. 
Mount  Carmel,  friars  of.     See  friars. 
Mounteney,  Munteney,  Cicely  wife  of 

John  de,  235. 

,  John,  John  de,  235. 

, ,  knight,  106,  196,  367. 

,  Margery  wife  of  John,  106. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  510. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  106. 

Mountfort,   Henry  de,  of   Somerset, 

323. 

Cf.  Monte  Forti.  Mounford. 

Mounthaut,    Raymond    de,    lord    of 

Musidan,  of  Aquitaino,  knight, 

444. 

Cf.  Monto  Alto. 

Mountnessing,  Gyng,  Gynge  Mount- 

enee,  co.  Essex,  fee  in,  23. 

,  manor  of,  106. 

Mount      Sorrell,      Mounsorell,      co. 

Leicester,  fee  in,  162. 
Mourholm,  Moresholmo  [in  Warton], 

co.     Lancaster,     manor     of, 

144. 
Mous,  Thomas,  510. 
Mouskham.     See  Muskham. 
Mousley,  Moselowe  [in  ELnaptoft],  co. 

Leicester,  fee  in,  190,  191. 
Moze,     Mose     [in    Beaumont    cum 

Moze],  co.  Essex,  fee  in,  22. 
Mugdon,  MokelyriKton  [in  Ulting],  co. 

Essex,  manor  of,  395. 
Mugge,     Willi  am.     warden     of     the 

colleyo    of     the     kind's     free 

chapel  of  Windsor,  221,  232. 
Mullo.     See  Milne. 
Mulsho,  John  do,  L89. 
William.    William  de,   clerk, 

77,  82,  83,  L10,  320. 
Multon.      >'<  1    Moulton. 
Multon,  Moulton,  John  do,  coroner 

of  Yorkslure,  371. 


Multon,  John  do — oont. 
knight,  129,  130,  218, 

262.  465. 

,  .....  of  Manton,  40. 

Thomas  de,  prior  of  Tiptree, 

439. 

,  William  de.  William,  270. 

,  ....  of  London,  100. 

Cf.  Molton. 

Mulward,    Avice   wife    of    Clement, 

143. 

Clement,  143. 

Mundon,  Alice,  115. 

Mundesdero,  Robert  de,  326,  357. 

Munk.     See  Monk. 

Munroos,  Nicholas,  of  Scotland,  263. 

Munslow,     Monselowe,     co.     Salop, 

fee  in,  191,  192. 
Aston,  Aston  [in  Munslow], 

co.  Salop,  fee  in,  191,  192. 
Munteney.     See  Mounteney. 
March uan,  Lawrence  de,  of  Ireland, 

375. 
Murifeld.     See  Merry  field. 
Murrieux.     See  Moryeux. 
Mursley,  co.  Buckingham,  Salden  in, 

278. 
Musard,   John,  farmer  of   Kiftsgate 

hundred,  276. 
Muschet,  George,  knight,  532. 
Musgrave,  Thomas  de,  escheator  in 

Cumberland,  26. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Northum- 
berland, 398. 
Musidan,   Mussenden   [France,   dep. 

Dordogne],     lord     of.        See 

Mounthaut,    Raymond   de. 
Muskham,    North,    Northmuskham, 

co.  Nottingham,  107. 
Muskham,  Mouskham,  John,  115. 
,  Robert,    Robert    de,    clerk, 

75,    102,    113,    114,    198,  238, 

259,  276,  459,  465. 
Mussenden.     See    Missendon,    Musi- 
dan. 
Mussenden,  Isabel  daughtor  of  Roger 

do,  82. 

Cf.  Messenden,  Missenden. 

Mustoll,  Thomas,   101. 

musters  in  Ireland,  389. 

Mutolowo.     Homy     do,     justice     of 

assize  iii  Gloucestershire,  276. 
Mutford,  Richard,  clork,  103. 

Of.   .M  it  lord. 

mutilation  01  a  forester,  1 19. 
Mychell'a    court,    Miohaelsoourt    in 

Buscot,  co.  Berks,  manor  of, 

217. 
Mvmbury.     Sec  Mimhury. 
Mymmos.     See  Minims. 


GENERAL     INDIA. 


.;  <«.  Ellis,  broiderer,  39 

Mynchenbarwe.      v        Harrow     (iur- 


lli  'V. 


Mvnc,   AJuoe  wife  of   Bartbolom 
•»  l  3. 

Bartholomew!    413. 

M>  stole.     8i  •   liistley. 

My  to.      Si    Mi  to. 


Xans.  Adam,  clerk.   1  65. 

Naburn    [in    Acaster    Ifalbis],    co. 
fork,  460. 

Xucton.  Xakcton.  co.  Suffolk,  321. 

,  advowson  of,  5 1  J. 

Unesbourne,      Alesborne 

priory  in,  510. 
Cowhawe,    Couhagh,     Cou- 

hawe  and  Sholland,  Sholond- 

hall  in.  321,  544. 
Xaffrcton,  William,  67. 
Xailstono,  Nayleston,  co.  Leicester, 

advowson  of,  192. 

,  manor  of,  188,  189. 

Xajera,    Xazare    in    Castile    [Spain, 

prov.     Logrono],     battle     of, 

337. 
Naketon.     See  Nacton. 
Naldre,  le,  in  Stoke  and  Worplesdon 

[co.  Surrey],  73. 
Kant'  in  tlie  march  of  Wales,  191, 

192. 
Naples  [Italy],  ships  of,  31,  42,  54, 

186. 
Nash,  Esse  [co.  Pembroke],  fee  in, 

191,  192. 
Nasshe,    John    atte,    the    elder,    of 

Greenwich,  483. 
Nassington       [co.       Xorthampton], 

letters   close   dated    at,    155, 

247. 
Nateby,   Richard   de,    king's   clerk, 

controller   of    the   household, 

558. 
Xauncell,  John,  162. 
Naunton,  Xewynton,  co.  Gloucester, 

fee  in,  493. 
Navello,  Gombald  do,  merchant  of 

Catalonia,  196. 
Navenby,  Jolin  de,  296. 

,  Stephen  de,  clerk,  244 

,  Thomas    de,     escheator    in 

Lincolnsliire,  390. 


Nayleston.     Sto  Nailstone. 

are.     >'<<    Najera. 
\.  oton,    Neketon    in    Terling,    co. 
i  fee  in,  24. 

Xcdcrton,    Vdain  do.  liurjzossof  Xmv- 

oastle  upon  Tyne,  532. 

X.-.l.  \rl.  Nolle,  Benedict,  510. 

Gilbert,  olerk,  272. 

Thomas,  610. 

William,  of  Drayton,  257. 

Nek,  Robert,  of   London,  patornos- 

trer,  281. 
Xoketon.     See  Necton. 
Neketon,  Thomas,  of  Fordham,  460. 
N'cl.  Nelle.     See  Noel. 
Norford,  Acnes  wife  of  John  de,  158. 

,  John  do,  knight,  158. 

Margaret  (Brewes)  daughter 

of     John     son     of     Thomas 

brother  of  John  do,  158. 
Ness,  West,  W'estnesse  in  Rydale  [in 

Stonegrave],  co.  York,  399. 

,  .  .  .  .,  chantry  at,  399. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  chaplain  of.    See 

Growelle,  John. 
Nessefeld,  William  de,  escheator  in 

Cumberland,  121,  313,  482. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Lancashire,  58. 
,  .  .  .  .,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  North  Riding  of  York- 
shire, 555. 
Netelton,  Joan  wife  of  Nicholas  de, 

433. 
Netherbury  [co.  Dorset],  Aish,  Assh 

and  Brimsham,  Brynsham  in, 

531. 
Nethercote  [in  Swindon],  co.  Wilts, 

manor  of,  372. 

See  Norcott. 

Netherhall,  Nethermaner  in  Liston, 

co.  Essex,  manor  of,  93,  263. 
Netilbed.     See  Nettlebed. 
nets,  lampreys  not  to  be  taken  by, 

70. 
Nettlebed,    Netilbed    [co.    Oxford], 

manor  of,  408. 
Neubell.     See  Newbell. 
Neuburgh,  Hawise  wife  of  Thomas 

son  of  Robert  de,  143. 

,  Nicholas  de,  clerk,  143. 

,  Robert  do,  143. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Robert  de, 

143. 
Neudegate.     See  Newdigate. 
Neudegate,     Nudegate,    Nyudegate, 

William,  74,  245,  331,  354. 
,  . .  . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Surrey,  429. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


GOO 


Neuhawo,  William  de,  222. 

Neuland.     See  Neweland. 

Neulond  [co.  Hereford],  manor  of, 
350. 

See  Newland. 

Neurnan.     See  Neweman. 

Neumarche,  Neumarchee,  Newe- 
marcho,  Hugh,  1G2. 

,  John,  178.  309. 

Thomas,  Thomas  de,  knight, 

154. 

Neuport.     See  Newport. 

Neuport,  Isabel  wife  of  John  de,  366. 

,  John,  John  de,  366,  369. 

, ,  of    Norfolk,    112. 

,  ....  son  of  Isabel  de,  366. 

Reynold,     esquire     of     the 

king's  chamber,   115. 

,  Richard,  chaplain,  182. 

William,  citizen  of  London, 

545. 

,  .  .  . . ,  fishmonger,  of  London, 

67,  97,  98,  126,  127. 

Neuton.     See  Newton. 

Neuton,  Neuweton,  Neweton, 
Geoffrey  de,  the  king's  Ser- 
jeant and  butler,  393. 

,  Jolin,  clerk,   460. 

.Richard  de,   351,   353,   508, 

509. 

,  Stephen  de,  223. 

,  William  de,  510,  511. 

Nevendon,  Nevinden,  co.  Essex,  fee 
in,  23. 

Neville,  Nevile,  Nevill,  Nevyle, 
Nevylle,  Alexander  de,  arch- 
bishop of  York.  50,  78,  103, 
174,  224,  282,  285,  348,  399, 
427,  428,  466,  469. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  relations  of,  with 

Queen's  College,  Oxford,  400. 

,  Alice  de,  23. 

,  ....   wife  of  Ralph  de,  138, 

144,    177. 

,  John  de,   lieutenant  of   the 

duke  of  Brittany,  385. 

, ,  lord  of  Raby,  299,  432. 

, , ,  knight,  102,  105, 

194    195. 

,  ..'..,  of  Raby,  77,  116,  435. 

,  ....  son  of  Ralph  do,   138, 

144,  177. 

Bteward  of  the  king's 

household,  159,249. 

,  IVtcr,    1<>2. 

,  Robert,  Robert  de,  <>f  Horn- 
by, knight,  513. 

,   .  .  .  .,  .  .  .  .,  knight     of      tho 

shire  of  York,  635. 

,  Thomas,  Thomas  do,  112. 


Neville,  Thomas — cont. 

clerk,    prebendary    of 

Swords  in  St.  Patrick's 
church,  Dublin,  560. 

William  de,  William,  ad- 
miral of  tho  king's  fleet  to 
tho  northward,  124.  366. 

of  Pockhill,  knight,  of 

Yorkshire,  518. 

Neviden.     See  Nevendon. 

Nevyle,  Nevyllo.     See  Nevillo. 

Newark,  Newerk  [co.  Nottingham], 
333. 

,  deed  dated  at,  77. 

,  vicar     of.     See     Sechefeld, 

John. 

Xowbell,  Neubell  [in  Stainton  by 
Langworth],  co.  Lincoln,  102. 

Xowbiggin,  Newebiggynge,  Nywe- 
byggynge  [in  Aysgarth],  co. 
York,  138,  144. 

Nowbrough,  Neweburgh,  co.  North- 
umberland, 322. 

,  Thornton  Tower  in,  322. 

Newbury,  Newebiry,  Niwebury,  co. 
Berks,  301. 

,  Thomas  parson  of,  148. 

Newby,  Neweby  [in  Morland],  co. 
Westmoreland,  fee  in,  500. 

Newcastle  upon  Tvne  [co.  Northum- 
berland], 48,  107,  171,  193, 
371,  531. 

,  bailiffs  of,  7,  8,  48,  193,  364, 

429,  537. 

,  burgesses  of,  469,  531,  532. 

,  . .  . .,  in     parliament,     429, 

537. 

,  Cale    Cross,    Calecrosse    in, 

531. 

,  castle  moat  in,  532. 

,  customors  of,  48,  193. 

,  deed  dated  at,  532. 

,  farm  of,  7,  8. 

,  mayor  of,  364,  537.    See  also 

Bulkham,  John  de. 

,  merchants  of,  378. 

,  port  of,  collectors  of  customs 

and  subsidies  in,  170,  364, 
378,  381,  402. 

Newdigato,  Ncudegato,  co.  Surrey, 
37i'. 

Newe,  Thomas,  parson  of  Godmors- 
ham.  540. 

Newebiggynge.     See  Newbiggin, 

Newebiry.     See  Newbury. 

Neweburgh.     See  Newbrough. 

Neweby.     6fe<    Newby. 

Neweland.     St  e  New  land. 

Neweland,  Neuland,  Geoffrey  do,  of 
Bennington,  345. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Ireland  -rout 

in'iii.  John  da,  <>f  Benning- 
ton, 345. 

of  Dnax,  IS. 

\   preman,  Neuman,  Niwman,  John, 
BIO. 

Ralph,  of  Manston,   160. 

Roger,  21  i 

William,  oi  Cookham,  540. 

N  •  n  emarche.     x      Neumarche. 
\'cw  nhaiQ. 
Matthew  de,  236. 

Thomas  de,  clerk,  254,  432. 

<>i  chancery,  de- 

puty  keeper  of  the  great  seal. 

548. 
justioe  in  eyre  in  Kent, 

81. 

ton.     See    Newington,    Now- 

ton. 
Newenton,    Geoffrey,    Geoffrey    de, 

198,  202,  277. 

Robert  de,  335. 

Neweport.     See  Newport, 
work.     See  Newark. 
\ork,  William,  William  de.  chap- 
lain, 82,  83,  235,  351,  353. 
Xfwoseles.     Sa    Newsells. 
Newethorp.     See  Bishopthorpo. 
Neweton.     See  Xeuton,   Newton. 
Xewhall  [in  Stapenhill],  co.  Derby, 

manor  of,  317. 
Xewhous,  William,  227. 
Newington  next  Hythe,   Xewenton 

Belhooaby  Hetfae,  Xewenton 

Bertram,  co.  Kent,  manor  of, 

53,  179. 
North,    Xortlmewenton    [in 

Broughton],  co.  Oxford, manor 

of,  528. 
Newland,  la  Xeulond  [in  Roxwell,  co. 

Essex],  463. 
,  Xeweland  in  Teynham,   co. 

Kent,  57,  207. 

Cf.  Xeulond. 

Xewminster  [in  Morpeth],  co.  North- 
umberland, abbot  of,  54. 
Newnham.  Xewenham.  co.  Hertford, 

William  vicar  of,  88. 
Xewport,  Xeweport,  co.  Essex,  22. 
Xeuport,     Isle     of     Wight, 

burgesses  of,  374. 

, ,  liberty  of,  374. 

,  Xeuport  in  Kemmeys,  Ke- 

moys  [co.  Pembroke],  548. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  castle  and  lordship  of, 

79,  386. 
Newsells,  Xeweseles  [in  Barkway,  co. 

Hertford],  lord  of.    See  Scales, 

Roger. 


Newton,    Neweton  [in  Great  linn- 
mow],  oo.  Bases,  !<•«>  in,  22. 

[in  Bwepetone],  co.  Leicester, 

fee  in,  100,  191. 

Neuton  by  Geidington,  co. 

N'ortJuimpton,    feee    in,    189, 
I'.to. 

,  Neweton    [by    Shrewsbury], 

oo.  Salop,  L59. 

Nenton  by  Blyfeld  [in  Blith- 

field],  OO.  Stafford,  manor  of, 
161. 

Gyppyngo       Xeuton,       co. 

Suffolk,  deed  dated  at,  106. 

, manor  of,  106. 

BloBBomville,    Neuton    [co. 

Buckingham],  foe  in,  191, 192. 

in  Cleveland,  Xeuton  under 

Ounesburgh,  co.  York,  fee  in, 
500. 

near  Sudbury,  Xewenton  [co. 

Suffolk],  advowson  of,   331. 

,  manor  of,  331. 

Regis,    Kyngesneuton,    co. 

Warwick,  manor  of,  318. 

St.  Loe,  Xeweton  Seynlo,  co. 

Somerset,  fee  in,  306. 

parson  of.      See   Salt- 

koc,  Xicholas. 

,  West,    Xouton    [in    Brom- 

field],  co.  Cumberland,  53. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chantry  at,  53. 

Newtown   Darloy    [co.    Kilkenny  ?], 

Ireland,   46. 
Xewynton.     See  Xaunton. 
Xhotlee,  John,  231,  232. 
Xichol,    Xicol,    Thomas,    chaplain, 
445. 

See  Fitz  Xichol. 

nicknames,  use  of,  1 94. 
Xicol.     See  Xichol. 
Xightingale     Hall  ?       Starlyngeshel 
in  Dunton,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 
23. 
Xiwebury.     See  Xewbury. 
Niwman.     See  Neweman. 
Noble,  John,  clerk,  18. 
Nodde,     Andrew     de,     servant     of 

merchants  of  Florence,  135. 
Noioun,  William,  182. 
Noke,  the,   [in   St.    Stephens]  ?  Ok- 
hurst   [co.   Hertford],   manor 
of,  234,  236. 
Nokelte.     See  Knockholt. 
iNoneton.     See  Nuneaton. 
Nonington,  Nonynton,  co.  Kent,  164. 
Nony.     See  Nunney. 
Nonynton.     See  Nonington. 
Norcott,  Nethercote  [in  Preston],  co. 
Gloucester,  fee  in,  307,  308. 


GENERAL    INDEX 


701 


Noreys,  John,  knight,  327. 

Thomas,  281. 

Norfolk.  Norffolk.  countv  of,  73.  102. 

105.  171,  2C7,   342.  365.  367. 
archdeacon   of      See  Blyth. 

William. 

,  coroners  of,  6.  127. 

countess  of.     See   Marshall. 

Margaret. 

,  earldom  of,  533. 

,  escheators    in.     See    Hethe, 

John  ;        Rokwode,       John ; 

Waterden,  Richard  ;    Weston, 

John  de. 
,  extortions     and     trespasses 

in,  220,  221.  232,  526. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  over  and  tenniner 

in,  211. 

,  justices  in,  526. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

537. 
,  sheriff  of,  6.  70,  93,  101,  127, 

288,  297,  321.  335,  336,  347, 

387,  399,  434,  436,  442,  470, 

481,  490,  491,  517.   545,  554. 

,  taxation  in,  58,  137,  205. 

Norfolk,  Xorffolk,  John,  357,  358. 
Norhampton.     See  Northampton. 
Norman,  Walter,  of  Lambeth,  436. 
Normanby  [in  Burton  upon  Stather, 

co.  Lincoln].  443.  444. 
Normandy  [Franco],  254,  316. 

,  men  of,  494. 

,  monk  of,  1  39. 

,  ships  of,  384,  494. 

,  stones  of,  349. 

Normanton,  co.  Leicester,  fee  in,  190, 

191. 

[co.  York],  church  of,  103. 

[Temple  ?],  co.  Derby,  226. 

Normanton,  Richard  de,  collectorof 

customs  at  King's  Lynn.  379. 

,  Walter  de,  chaplain,  353. 

,  William  de,  chaplain,  351. 

North,  A  vice.  143. 
Northalle.     See  Northolt. 
Northampton,       Norhampton      [co. 

Northampton],  75. 

,  burgesses  of,   430,    537. 

Pre    abbey,     St.     Mary     do 

Pratis,  abbess  of,  189. 

prison  at,  76. 

,  St.    Andrew's   priory,    prior 

of,   190. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  and   convent   of, 

364. 
,  St.  John's  hospital,  master 

of,  190. 
,  statute  of,  guardians  of,  341. 


Northampton,  earl  of.     See  Bohun, 

Earn]  hxey  de  ;    Bohan,  Wil- 
liam do. 
Northampton,  Norhampton,  county 

of.  85,  94,  105,  257,  367,  125, 

539. 

,  coroners  of,  137,  136,  370. 

escheator  in.     See  Carnelles, 

John  :   Seymour,  John;   Tyn- 

dale,  John  ;  Warde,  Simon. 

,  issues  of,  158,  482,  483. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

536. 
sheriff  of.  14,  37,  75,  78,  137, 

156,  158,  208.  241i  315,  370, 

482,  483,  540. 
Northampton,  John,  sheriff  of  Lon- 
don. 512. 
Northburgh.   Michael  de,   bishop  of 

London,  314. 
North  bury,  Richard,   512. 
Northcadebury.     See  Cadbury. 
Northclifton.     See   Clifton. 
Northcotom.     See  Coatham. 
Northfleet,    Northflote,     co.     Kent, 

371,  434.  435. 
Northlond.   Richard,   333. 
Northmuskham.     See  Muskhanv 
Northmymmes.     See  Minims. 
Northnewenton.     See  New  ingtoh. 
Northolt,   Northalle,  co.   Middlesex, 

manor  of,  358. 

,  Down,  Doune  in,  358. 

North  over,  co.  Somerset,  fees  in,  307. 

North  park.     See  Park. 

North tatton.     See  Tatton. 

North  toft,  Nortoft,  Alice  do,  sistor  of 

St.    Katherine's   hospital   by 

the  Tower  of  London.    93. 
,  Tsmania  wife  of  William  son 

of  Edmund,  96. 
Northumberland,  county  of,  64,    74, 

198,   266,    330. 
coroners  of,  7,  127,  130,  139, 

140. 
escheator    in.     See    Bygot, 

John  ;    Culwen,   Gilbert   do  ; 

Ergum,    William   de ;     Mm-- 
\  «■,  Thomas  de  ;    SayviHe, 

John  ;   Scotherskelf,  John  de  ; 

Yale,   William  d<<   la. 
knights  of  the  shiro  of,  428, 

g  • ;  g 

,  sheriff  of,  7.  127,  130,  139, 

l  pi.  376,  128,  535.     Sea  also 
I  Milton.    Thomas   de  ;     .M"ii- 

boucher,    Bertram. 

taxation    in.    522. 

Northweald     Basset  !    Welds    [co, 
Essex],  107. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Y.rthwich.      Sm  NorwioO. 

thwode,  Norwode,  .)«>lm.  224. 

Richard   de,    Richard,    508, 

609. 

851,  353. 

Northwolde,  Jol  n  de,   552. 
\   rthwyohe.     6      Norwico. 

\    rthw  \  tluun.      8(  l     W  itham. 

Nortoft     >■■     Northtoft. 

\   rton    [in    Aston    Bub    Eklge,    co. 

Gloucester],  manor  o 
[in    Campsall],    co.     York. 

manor  of,  4.~>] . 
Ifandeville,  Maundeville  [oo. 

Bast  \:.   107. 
Morton,  Geoffrey,  Geoffrey  <l<\  3GG. 
parson    of     Langton, 

426. 

John,  3 

Ralph  de,    knight,    85,    88, 

226,  323,  425. 

Stephen  de,  271,  '273. 

William.      Willisin     de,     of 

Hampshire,  363. 

saddler,   377. 

Norwich,  Norwych  [co.  Xorfolk],  11, 

472.  481,  515,  516. 
,  bailiffs  of,  45,  119,  127,  288, 

481,  490. 
bishop      of.       See      Percy, 

Thomas  ;    Spencer,  Henry  le. 
castle,     justices    to    deliver 

gaol  of,  211. 
,   service     of    rendering 

4s.  of  blanch  farm  to,  371. 

,  citizens  of,  354—356. 

,  cook  of,  481. 

,  farm  of,  45. 

,  mayor  of,  119. 

,  merchants  of,  171. 

,  prison  at,  288. 

,  St.    Margaret,   St.  Margaret 

Westwyk,    parson    of.       Sec 

Gilbert,  Simon. 
Norwico,    Northwich,    Xorthwyche, 

Norwich,   Norwicz,    Norwyc', 

Norwych,  Adam  de,  of  Lon- 
don, 554. 
,  Eleanor  (Fraunceys)  wife  of 

John  de,  63,  66. 

,  Henry,  of  Bringhurst,  76. 

,  John  de,  John,  76,  182. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  495. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  goldsmith,  70. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  63. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,   the      younger. 

234. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  London,  88. 

,  Katherine    Breouse    daugh- 
ter of  Thomas  de,  84. 


Norwico — cont. 

Kobort.    chaplain,    101. 

Roger  <li>.  knight,  84. 

William.  512. 

Norwode.     See   Northwode. 
Norwyc'.     >s''<  Nbrwioo. 
Norwych.     See  Norwico,  Norwich. 
Noseley,     Nousleye,     Nowsele    [co. 

Leicester],    warden    of    chapol 

of.     See  Pesk,  Ralph, 
notaries  public,   114,  196,  444,  445. 
Notfeld.     See  Nutfield. 
Notley,  Black,  lilack  Xottole,  Blake- 

nottlo  [co.  Essex],  201,  514. 

, fee  in,  22. 

,  White.    White   Nottele,    co. 

Essex.  2(il. 
Xntley.     See  Nhotlee. 
Notstede.     See  Nursted. 
Nottele.     See  Notley,  Nutley. 
Nottingham,  Notyngham   [co.   Not- 

tingham],  505. 

,  burgesses  of,  77. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  in  parliament,    537. 

,  Carmelite  friars,  prior  of,  90. 

castle,     constable    of.       See 

Dabrichecourt,    Nicholas. 

,  prison  in,  397. 

Nottingham,  Notyngham,  county  of, 

107,  204,  280,  327,  356,  475, 

518. 
,  escheator    in.     See    Aunes- 

leye,  Hugh  de  ;    Bekyngham, 

John    de  ;     Foucher,     John ; 

Grenhille,  Thomas  de ;    Stan- 
hope, John. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  187,  252. 

,  issues  of,  7. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

536. 

,  sheriff  of ,  7,  248,  436. 

,  taxation  in,  42,  368. 

Notting     Hill,     Knottyngwode     [in 

Kensington],    co.    Middlesex, 

387. 
Notton,  William  de,  195,  196. 
Nottour,     William,     master     of     la 

Trinite  of  Plymouth,  82. 
Notyngham.  See  Nottingham. 
Notyngham,  John  son  of  Robert  de, 

87. 
Ralph  de,  Ralph,  of  Blaston, 

75,  257. 

,  Robert  de,  57. 

,  ....  son   of   James   son   of 

Robert  de,  57. 
,  ....  son  of  Robert  son  of 

Robert  de,  57. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


'03 


Notyngham — cont. 
Thomasia  wife  of  Robert  de, 

53,  57. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  assignment   of    dower 

to,  206. 
Nousleye.     See  Noseley. 
novel  disseisin,  assizes  of,  151,  193, 

209.  300. 
Noveray,  Nicholas,  162. 
Noverton,  Overton  by  Stanford  [in 

Stanford      on      Teme],      co. 

Worcester,    383. 
Novo  Castro,  Adam  de,  of  Northum- 
berland, 284. 
Nowers,  John  de,  knight,  355,  528. 
Nowsele.     See  Noseley, 
Nudegate.     See  Neudegate. 
Nimeaton,  Noneton  [co.  Warwick], 

prioress,  prior  and  convent  of, 

205. 

William  prior  of,  205. 

Nuneham  Courtney,  Nywenham,  co. 

Oxford,  manor  of,   167. 
Nunney,  Nony  [co.  Somerset],  323, 

433. 

,  deed  dated  at,  323. 

,  manor  of,  323. 

Trudox  Hill,  Trottockeshull 

in,  433. 
Nunny,  William,  235,  237. 
Nursted,  Notstede  [co.  Kent].  434. 

,  deed  dated  at,  435. 

,  manor  of,  434. 

Nutfield,  Notfeld,  co.  Surrey,  111. 
Nutley,  Nottele  [in  Long  Crendon,  co. 

Bucks],   advowson   of   abbey 

of,  26. 

,  Nuttele,  co.  Hants,  88. 

Nyng,  Andrew  le,  142. 

,  Joan  wife  of  Andrew  le,  142. 

Nyudegate.     See  Neudegate. 
Nywebyggynge.     See  Newbiggin. 
Nywenham.     See  Nuneham. 


Oakfiold,     Wokefeld     Banastre    [in 

Stratficld       Mortimer,       co. 

Berks],  212. 

,  deed  dated  at,  212. 

Oakham,  Okham.  co.  Rutland,  10. 

,  castle  of,  corn-table  of,  411. 

,  ....  and  lordship  of ,  steward 

and    kt  eper  of.     See  Ward.-, 

Simon. 


Oakham — cont. 

controller     at.     See     Flore, 

William. 

,  great  court  of,  176. 

,  letters  clo.se  dated  at,  1  56. 

manor  of,  keeper  of,  4 1 1. 

Oaks,    Okea    [in    Pontesbury],    co. 

Salop.  483. 
Oaksey,    Wokeseye,    co.    Wilts,    ad- 
vowson of  chapel  of,  25. 
oats,  10,  411,  44(1. 
Obargan.     See  Iberchon. 
Oburnford,  Wobemeford  [in  Halber- 

ton,    co.    Devon],    manor   of, 

331,  332. 
Ockendon,   South,   Southwokyndon, 

South  Wokyndon,  co.  Essex, 

advowson  of,  340. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ....  of  chapol  in,  340. 

,  ....,  deeds   datod    at,    271, 

522. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  fee  in,  22. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  340. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson   of.     See   'Bur- 
ton. Robert  de. 
Ockham.  Okham.  co.  Surrey,  61. 
Odard,  John,  216. 
Oddington,    Otyndon,    co.    Oxford, 

deed  dated  at,  355. 

manor  of,  355. 

Oddyngseles,  John,  knight,  461. 

Ode,'  John,  510. 

Odell,  Great  Wodhullo,  co.  Bedford, 

advowson  of,  352. 
,  .....manor    of,    352,    353, 

426. 
Little,    Little  Wodhullo   [in 

Odell],    manor   of,    352,    353, 

426. 
Odiam.  Feiand,  343. 
Odiham,  Hodiham,  Odyham,  John, 

466. 

,  Richard,  461.  463. 

Odstone,  Odvston,  co.  Leicester,  foe 

in,  190,  191. 
Odyham.     See  Odiham. 
Odyn,  Thomas  son  of  John,  of  Great 

Wakering,  3. 
odvston.    See  < klstone. 
Oelton.     See  Oulton. 
Ofohuroh,   Offechirche,   William  do, 

clerk.  466,  4 Id. 
Offord.     See  CJfford. 
Offynton.     See  Umngton. 
Ofton.     Si  -  CJfton. 
Ofton     Roberd,     Peter     oousin     of 

William  de,  of   Buckingham- 

shire,  354. 
Ogbourne,     Okebome,     OO.     Wilts, 

prior  of,  23, 


GENERAL     IXI'KX 


<\  James  li.  merchant  of  EJW 
19. 

•  1  wife  "i  Eloberi  <!<•.  121. 
....  Eloberi  do,  121. 

son  of    Elobert  son  of 

Eloberi  do,  121. 

1  >\  BO,  ri\  t -r  [  I'raiK'i'l.  26  L. 

Oistorlowe      5      OyBterlow. 

Oke,  Oak,  Thomas  atte,  dfl,  103,234. 

of  Barham,  r>  1 4 . 

Okeborne.     8  eurne. 

Okebourno.  John  n    of    Chid- 

dingstone,  549. 

Wffliam,  '.'7. 

Okeford,    Shilling,    Aoford    Skillyog 

[co.    Dorset],    advowson    of, 
324. 

manor  of.  324. 

Okehampton,  co.  Devon,  Bright  ley, 

Brightleph  in.  250. 
Okes.     See  Oaks. 
Okliam.     See  Oakham,  OckJiam. 
Okhurst.     See  Noke. 
Okhurst.  John,  of  Sussex,  288,  289. 
Okolte  [co.  Kent  or  Sussex],  207. 
Okstedo.     See  Oxted. 
Oldecastel,  Oldecastell,  Jolm,  John 

de,  112,  257,  258. 
Oldecrosse.     See  Ross. 
Oldeford,  Old  Ford.     See  Ford. 
Oldham,     co.     Lancaster,     Sholver, 

Sholler  in.  328. 
Olesthorp.     See  Ullesthorpe. 
Oliveira    [Portugal,    ]>rov.    Beira]  ? 

Olvver,  ship  of,  13. 
Oliver,  Olyver.  John,  453,  549. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger,    111. 

,  .  .  . . ,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Croydon,   74, 

21 8 

,  Robert,  532. 

William,  442. 

Olmestede,  Robert  de.  450. 
Olmsted.  Olmestede  [co.  Cambridge], 

450. 

,  manor  of,  450. 

Olney  [co.   Buckingham],  228,  256, 

257,  354. 

,  Parker  of.     See  Parker. 

Olneye,  Isabel  wife  of  William,  259, 

266. 
John,    John    de,    259,    446, 

514,  531. 
,  . . . . ,  merchant  of  London, 

358. 
,  William,  fishmonger,  of  Lon- 
don, 259. 
Olyve,  William,  204. 
Olyver.     See  Oliveira,  Oliver. 
Onehouse,    co.    Suffolk,    Finborough 

Hall,  Fenhall  in,  305. 


Onyot,  Bartholomew,  510. 
Etoger,  •">!". 

Onyoteehay,  Joan  wife  of  Richard, 
HO. 

Riohard,  410. 

Ook.     8*  Oke. 

oranges,  29] . 

Orby,  John  do.  161. 

Orchard,  Jolm.  243. 

chaplain,  79,  80. 

Orchestra    St.    George,    co.    Wilts, 
ESlston,  ESyleston  in,  185. 

ordinances  : — 

conccininp;    wool    and    lead    in 

livl.-md.   388. 
for  holding  staples  of  wool,  412. 
regulating    relations   of   master 
and  servant.  264,  389,  390. 

sale  of  cloth,  42. 

sale  of  sweet  wine,  529. 

requiring  contribution  of  non- 
resident landlords  to  defence 
of   Ireland,   298,   311. 

Ore,  Robert  de,  loiight  of  the  shire 
of   Sussex,   429. 

('/.  Dore. 

Orell,  Nicholas  de,  236,  461. 

Orewelle.     See  Orwell. 

Orfevre,     Robert    le,     of     Ludlow, 
464. 

Organ,  Orgoun,  John,  259. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  494. 

Orgrave,     Thomas,     clerk     of     the 
treasury  at  Westminster,  524. 

Oriel,   Richard,   288. 

Orleton      [in      Wrockwardine,      co. 
Salop],  manor  of,  558. 

[in  Eastham],  co.  Worcester, 

manor  of,  383. 

Orleton,  John  de,  103. 

Orlingbury,  co.  Northampton,  Bat- 
saddle,  Bateshalehulle  in,  190. 

Ormesby,  co.  Norfolk,  315. 

Ormond,  earl  of.  See  Boteler, 
James  le. 

Omeweider,  John,  burgess  of  Aarden- 
burg,  21. 

Orpington,  co.  Kent,  East  Hall, 
Esthalle  in,  186. 

Orreton,  Giles  de,  26. 

,  Joan  (de  Skelton)  daughter 

of  Giles  de,  26. 

,  Maud  wife  of  Giles  de,  26. 

Orrewelle.     See  Orwell. 

Orton,  co.  Westmoreland,  Round- 
thwaite,  Runthwayte  and  Te- 
bay  in,  53. 

Orwell,  Orewelle,  Orrewelle,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, 66,  250,  323. 

,  manor  of,  350. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


705 


Orwell — cont. 

Mnlton.  Malketon.  Melketon 

in.  66,  260,  323.  549. 

Osbern.  John.  113,  259. 

, the  younger,  1 1 3. 

Osekvn.  John,  citizen  of  London, 
133. 

Osoneve.     See  Osney. 

OsgaL  William,  357. 

Osmeston.  (Jcoffrey  cle,  512. 

Osmond,  William,  of  Norfolk,  554. 

Osmundethorp.  William  de,  226. 

Osney,  Oseneye  [in  Oxford,  co. 
Oxford],  abbot  of,  307. 

,  ....  and    convent   of,    203, 

232,  539. 

Ospringe,  Osprongo,  co.  Kent,  hospi- 
tal of.  master  and  brethren  of, 
342. 

,  manor  of,  107.  201. 

,  Svndale,    the    Syndane    in, 

206. 

Osterley,  Osturle  in  Heston,  Eston 
[co.  Middlesex],  214. 

Ostiler,  Richard,  of  Northampton- 
shire, 44  4. 

Cf.  Hostiler.  Husteler. 

Osturle.     See  Osterley. 

Osturle.  Nicholas,  216. 

,  Thomas,  215. 

Osulveston.     See  Owston. 

Oter  de  Lyoun,  Peter,  of  London, 
534. 

Oterplaye.     See  Otterpley. 

Otford,  Otteford.  co.  Kent,  545. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  97,  98. 

,  manor  of,  97. 

,  Palestre  in,  545. 

Rye  House,  le  Rye  in,   97, 

98. 

,  Sepham  in,  97,  98. 

Otham,  co.  Kent,  deed  dated  and 
acknowledged  at,  271. 

Otley,  Otteleve,  co.  Suffolk,  manor 
of,  187,  188. 

Oton,  John  de,  clerk,  of  Nottingham- 
shire. 544. 

Otriton.      See  Ottorton. 

Otryham.  Peter  de,  parson  of  East 
Claydon,  I  18. 

Otryngham.     See  Ottringham. 

Otryngton.  William.  337,  340. 

Otryton.     See  Otterton. 

Otteby,  Jolin,  John  do,  472. 

, ,  of  Keelby,  451. 

Cf.  Outeby. 

Otteford.     S&  Otford. 

Otteford,  William  de,  esoheatoT  ill 
Bedfordshire,  300. 

Ottelcyo.     See  Otley. 

\\t.   11824. 


Otterington,  South,  Southotrvngton 
[eo.  York],  rector  of.  See 
Waddealey,  William  de. 

Ottorpley,  Oterplaye  in  Challock, 
Chellocc  [now  part  of  East- 
well  park,  co.  Kent],  98. 

Otterton.  Otriton  Monachorum, 
Otryton.  manor  of,  503. 

,  prior  of.    See  Sodile,  Thomas. 

High  Peak.  Pyklond  in,  503. 

Ottringham,  Otryngham  [co.  York], 
manor  of.  223. 

Otvndon.     Sec  Oddington. 

Oiilton,  Oclton.  co.  Suffolk,  246. 

Ouresby,  John  do,  451.  457. 

Ousby,  Ulvesby,  co.  Cumberland, 
manor  of,  119. 

Ouston,  Robert  de,  vicar  of  Hat- 
field.  424. 

Oustwyk,  John  de,  255. 

Outeby,  John,  parson  of  Cortling- 
stock.  436. 

Cf.  Otteby. 

Outhorp,  John  de,  540. 

Outlawe,  John,  24. 

Outresson,  John,  495. 

Over,  co.  Cambridge,  69,  247. 

co.  Gloucester,  manor  of,  227. 

Overe,  Henry  van  then,  merchant, 
486. 

Over  Hall,  Overhal,  O  verb  all  [in 
Ashdon,  co.  Essexl,  76. 

,  manor  of,  76. 

Overk.     See  Iverk. 

Overton,  Market,  co.  Rutland,  fee  in, 
191,  192. 

See  Noverton. 

Overton,  Richard  de,  receiver- 
general  of  the  hospital  of  St. 
John  of  Jerusalem  in  Eng- 
land, £97. 

,  Thomas  do,  1G0. 

William  de,  knight,  561. 

Ovingham,  Ovyngham,  co.  North- 
umberland, fishery  at,  180. 

manor  of,  181. 

mill  at.  180. 

Ovyngge,  Edmund,  coroner  of  Cam- 
bridgeshire,   11!). 

Ovyngham.     See  Ovingham. 

Owayn,  Oweyn,  hew  is  ap,  547,  648. 

Robert,    of    Poultney,    107, 

109,  201. 

Owston.   Osulveston.   co.    Leicester, 

abbot  of,  190,  191. 
fee  iii.   190,   191. 

Owthorne,  co.  York,  Redmere,  Red- 
mar  in,  223. 

oxen.  382,    U(4. 

Ozendon,  John,  21 8. 

en  i 


- 


<, i:\ki:  \i. 


Dedeft.       5        I  > vn.-.'i. I. 

(»\.  m    "     Isabel    wife    of    Thou. 

Oxenford,  Doxenford,  Ralph,  117. 
uhiill,  OxenhaJe,  oo.  Gloucester, 

iIo.n!   (Intel   at.  278 
...  manor  of,   278     481. 

•rd  [oo.  Oxford],  560. 
bailiffs  of,  158,  388,  478,  508, 

."'•',<».        -  Gbioheetre, 

Eta 

burgoonoB  of.  282. 

in     parliament,     430, 

57. 

coroner  of.  eloction  of,  158. 

friars  preachers  of.  388. 

prior  and  convent  of, 

508. 

, spies  among,  44. 

guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in.  340. 
hundred   beyond   the  north 

pi  to  of,  fanner  of,   156.  394. 
also   Dammoiy,    Richard. 

J i listing  of,  560. 

justices    to    deliver   gaol    of 

castle  of.  39,  320. 
,  mayor  of,  158,  232,  3C0,  476, 

508,  580. 
,  . .  . .,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  in  Oxford,  340. 

,  Osney  ahbey  in.     See  Osney. 

,  proclamation  in,   476. 

,  river  Thames  at,  388,  508. 

,  St.       Frideswide's      priory, 

canons  of,  187. 

,  .  .  . . ,  convent  of,  1 5,  202. 

,  .  .  . .,  keepers  of,  named,  15, 

55,  169,  175. 
,  maladministration   of, 

150,  151. 
, ,  prior  of,  187,  202.    See 

also  Dodeford,   John ;    Wal- 

yngford,  John  de. 
,    .  .  .  . ,    . .  .  . ,     imprisonment 

of.  304. 

St.  Thomas,  parish  of,  320. 

,  university  of,  chancellor  of, 

400,  402,  476. 
,  .  .  . . ,  . . . . ,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  in  Oxford, 

340. 

,  . . .  . ,  discord  in,  476. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  proctors  of,  476. 

,     . .  . . ,    Queen's        College, 

Quenehalle,       provost       and 

scholars  of,  400. 
« ,  . . . . ,  . . . . ,  statutes  of,  400. 


INDEX. 

Oxford,  university  of — cant. 

,  .....  regenl  masters  of,  402, 

restoration  of  momhor 

of.  402. 

,  scholar     of,      robbory 

from.   320. 

,  statutes  of.  402. 

vice-chancellor  of,  340. 

Oxford,  carl  of.     See  Veor,  Thomas 

de. 
Oxford,  county  of,  72,  86,  106,  237, 

270,  326,  361,  424,  513,  517, 

530,  551. 

,  coroners  of,  299,  477. 

,  escheator  in,  388,  508.     See 

also  Somerton,  Nicholas. 
,  guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 

in,  340,  437. 
.justices    of    assize    in,    150, 

151. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

536. 
sheriff    of,    37-39,    57,    297, 

299,  320,  388,  437,  445,  476, 

477,  508,  525. 

,  survey  of  weirs  etc.  in,  508. 

,  taxation  in,   206. 

Oxhey,  Oxeye  by  Watfford  [in  Wat- 
ford,   co.    Herts],    manor   of, 

89,   92. 
Oxnead,     Oxenedes,     co.     Norfolk, 

fee  in,  24,  25. 
Oxted,  Okstede,  co.  Surrey,  304. 
Oxton,  Johri,  270. 
Oyse.     See  Oise. 
Oysterlow,    Oisterlowe,    Oystrelowe 

[co.  Carmarthen],  commote  of, 

248,  286,  287. 


P 

Paas,  Pays,  John,  98. 

,  . . . . ,  of  Dartmouth,  488. 

Cf.  Passe. 

Pabenham,     Papenham,     John,     of 

Coventry,  438. 
,  Lawrence      de,      Lawrence, 

knight,  230,  352,  353,  426. 
Pacche,  William,  226. 

Cf.  Pecche. 

Pacchestrowe.     See  Pastrow. 
Pachendene.     See  Patchendon. 
Padbury,  co.  Buckingham,  281,  289. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


707 


Paddington.  Padyngden  [in  Abinger], 
co.    Surrey,    manor   of,    187, 
188,    189/ 
Paddokthorp.     See    Falletliorp. 
Padebury,  John  de,  95. 
Padua  [Italy],  473. 
Padyngden.     See  Paddington. 
Padyngton,  John  de.  253. 
Page,  John,  of  Eversholt,  300. 

,  Thomasia  wife  of  Richard, 

371. 

,  Walter,  243. 

Pagrave,  William,  359. 
Paitow.     See  Poitou. 
Pake,  John,  366. 

Pakeman,    Agnes    wife    of    Simon, 
assignment  of  dower  to,  401. 

,  Simon,  36,  55,  198,  201. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Warwickshire,   474. 
Pakenham,  Henry  de,  246. 
Pakynton,  Jolin,  of  London,  saddler, 

446. 
Palestre  in  Otford  and  Shoreham,  co. 

Kent,  545. 
Pallethorp,  Paddokthorp  [in  Bolton 
Percy],  co.  York,  manor  of ,  1 80. 
Palmer,  Richard,  draper,  of  London, 
210. 

,  Robert,  100,  534. 

,  .  . .  . ,  of  Kedington,  77. 

,  Simon,  510. 

.William,  165,  252,  461. 

Pampisford,  Pampesworth,  co.  Cam- 
bridge,  532. 
Pampyng,  Ralph,   471. 
Panes,  Panys,  John  de,  228,  229. 

, ,  of  Wyke,  323,  433. 

Pangdean,  Pengedene  [in  Poynings], 

co.  Sussex,  manor  of,  309. 
Panyter,  John,  542. 

Cf.  Peyntour. 

Panys.     See  Panes. 
Papalasayne,  Leonard  de,  363. 
Pape,  Arnald,  master  of  the  Oeorye, 

404. 
Papenham.     See  Pabenham. 
Papeworth,    Pappeworthe,    William 

de,  66,  538,  539. 
Papworth.  worth,    cos.    Cam- 

bridge  and  Huntingdon,    66. 

,  parson    of.     See    Franceys, 

Jolm. 
Parage,  Thomas,  513. 
Paravesin,   Paravesyn,   Paravesinus, 
merchant  of  Genoa,  310,  436, 
438,  45S. 
Parchemoner,  William,  of  Grantham, 
•VJ7. 


Pared,     Berengarius,     merchant    of 
italonia.   196. 

Parfit,  William,  of  London,  208. 

Paris,    298. 

Park,  Xorthpark  [in  Penslnust].  co. 
Kent,  manor  of,   107,  201. 

Street,     Parksokene,      Park- 

sokne   [in   St.    Stephen's,   co. 
Hertford],  83,  234,  236. 

Park,  William  atte,  verderer  of  Wind- 
sor forest,  137. 

Parker,  Hugh  le,  510. 

,  James,  133,  134. 

,  Katherine,  134. 

John,  of  Hunsdon,  257. 

, ,  of  Olney,  228, 256,  257. 

,     .  .  . . ,    .  .  . . ,    escheator    in 

Buckinghamshire,    421,    483, 
493. 

,....,....,     ....    in    Cam- 
bridgeshire, 476. 

,....,....,    ....    in  Hunt- 
ingdonshire, 498. 

,  Katherine    wife    of    James, 

134. 

,  Richard,  clerk,  272. 

,  Robert,    vicar    of    Lidding- 

ton,  534. 

,  Roger,  of  Brentwood,  364. 

,  Walter,  parson  of  Havering 

atte  Bower,  479,  480. 

,  ....  son  of  Thomas  son  of 

James,  134. 

Parketon.     See  Parton. 

Parksokene,  Parksokne.     See   Park 
Street. 

parliament,  27,   136,  203,  364,  379, 
381,  433,  434,  440,  442,  503. 

,  burgesses  of,   429-430,   537. 

,  exclusion    of    sheriffs    from 

election  to,  467. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428- 

429,  535-537. 

,  .  .  .  .,  compulsory    contribu- 
tion to  expenses  of,  414. 

,  lords  and  great  men  of  the 

realm  in,  387. 

,  ordinances  mado  in,  42,  529. 

,  petitions  in.  9,  151,  152,  380, 

381,   523,   532,  533. 

,  prorogation  of,  285. 

,  statutes  of,   206,    368,   522. 

summons  to,  282,  283,  285, 

286,  318,  311).  466,  4<>7.  470. 

,  writ  to  sheriff  of  Bristol  for 

election  of  burgonoofl  of,  467. 
Parrocks.     Parrok    [in     Milton,     co. 

Kent  |,  manor  of,  434,  435. 
Parton,  Parketon  [in  Rardialey],  co. 
Hereford.  294,    J 90. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Paxton — cant. 

lordship  of,  870. 

Partriohe.  William.  216. 
partridges,  221. 

Parvyi  rl    120, 

121. 

Riohard  .-«>n  of  Robert,  121. 

Pa:         '      n  de,  of  Suffolk.  206. 
...'.. ..  Robert,  Rol  Ml  de,  180,  512. 

merchant  of   London, 

:t. 

of      Cambridgeshire, 

524. 

Thomas  de,  548. 

191. 
-alrwc      S       I  we. 

I     ristana  wife  of  John.  143. 

Tolm.  1  13. 

Passe,  John.  495,  555. 
(  7.    I ' 

nlewe,  PaaBalewe,  Passelowe, 
Rol  •  it.  coroner  of  ro.  York, 
5. 

guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  West    Riding  of  York- 
nl  lire.  .">54. 

Paashele,  Robert  de,  knight  of  tlio 
shire  of  Kent,  536. 

Pastrow,  Pacchestrowe  hundred  [co. 
Bants],  bailiff  of.  See  Hol- 
ton,  Henry. 

Patchendon.  Pachendene  [in  Staple- 
ford],  co.  Hertford,  455. 

manor  of,  453. 

Pa  to.  John,  21). 

Pateshull.     See  Pattishall. 

Pateshnll,  Patteshill,  Henry,  336. 

, ,  tailor.    339. 

,  Thomas,  chaplain,  331. 

,  parson    of     St.    John 

Walbrook,  London,  346. 

Pathorn,  John  de,  of  York,  draper, 
.-.i>2. 

Patishulle.     See  Pattishall. 

Patryncton,  Jolin  de,  king's  clerk, 
clerk  of  the  chancery,  353. 

Patteshill.     See  Pateshull. 

Patishall,  Pateshull.  Patishulle,  co. 
Northampton,  540. 

,  advowson  of,  352. 

manor  of,  352,  353. 

vicar     of.        See      Hogges, 

Henry. 

,  Ascote,  Anescote  in,  175,  374. 

Paulfleet,  Pauleflete  upon  Humbre 
[by  Paull],  co.  York,  440. 

Paulynscray.     See  Cray. 

Paumes,  William,  of  Xaburn,  460. 

Pauncefot,  Pauncefout,  Ellen  wife  of 
Grimbald,  290. 


Puuucefot — emit. 

Grimbald,  290. 

Bugh   brother  of  Grimhald. 

290. 
Riohard,  534. 

knight  of  the  shire  of 

Southampton,  429. 
Pauneabury,  Riohard,  of  Wem,  99. 

Paunfeld,     Walter,     of    Cambridge, 
goldsmith,  62. 

Pavy,  William,  of  Lincolnshire,  541. 

I'aue.   Peter,  clerk,  of  Avignon,  165. 

Paxton,  (rioat,  co.  Huntingdon,  Mau- 
prith  in,  423. 

Payn.  Edward,  267. 

Eleanor  wife  of  William,  226. 

,  James.    02. 

,  Jolin,-  228.  460. 

,  .  .  . . ,  annourer,  1 98. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of    London,    77, 

101,  116. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Swaffham,  450. 

, ,  pultor,  438. 

,  Nicholas,    coroner    of    Nor- 
folk,  6. 

,  Richard,  350. 

,  .....  of   Berkslu're,    346. 

, ,  of   Kintbury,    327. 

,  Robert,   cutler,   of   London, 

438. 

,  Thomas,  111. 

,  William,  226. 

,  . .  .  .,  of  Dorset,  114. 

See  Fitz  Payn. 

Paynel,  Pajmell,  Jolin,  of  Boothby, 
Pagnell.   knight,   361. 

,  ....  son     of     Thomas,     of 

Ufton,  354. 

,  Thomas,   knight,   217. 

Payon,  William,  of  Norfolk,  333. 

Cf.  Peioun. 

Pays.     See  Paas. 

peacock,    feathers,    arrows    winged 

with,  425. 
Peak,   High,    Pyklond  in   Otterton, 

co.  Devon,  503. 
pease,  119,  126,  127. 
Pecche.  Petche,  Agnes  wife  of  Simon, 
of  Great  Waltham,  458. 

,  ....  wife  of  William,   74. 

,  John,    citizen    of    London, 

414. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  255. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  437. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  sheriff  of  London,  51 6. 

,  William,  74. 

Cf.  Pacche. 

Peckeham.     See  Pekham. 

Pecock,  Pecok,  Edmund,  235,  237. 

,  John,  366. 


CEXERAL    INDEX 


roo 


Pecock — cont. 

William,  of  London,  116. 

pedage,  391. 

Peddynce     [near     Faversham,     co. 

Kent],  57. 

v  ood  of,  206. 

Pedro.     See  Peter. 

Pedwardyn,      Pete  ward  yne,     Isabel 

Wife  of  Walter.  500. 
Thomas,    canon    of    Catley, 

95. 

Walter,  94. 

,  .  .  .  .,  baron,  52. 

, ,  knight,  500. 

Pedjmgton.     See  Piddington. 

Peek,  Pek,  John,  511. 

,  Ralph,    warden    of   Noseley 

chapel,  75,  76. 

,  William.  132,  133,  230,  231. 

Peglinch,    Pegelynche    [in    Wellow], 

co.  Somerset,  fee  in,  307. 
Peioun,  John,  432. 
,  Thomas    son    of    John,    of 

Shaftesburv,  518. 

Cf.  Payon. 

Pek.     See  Peek. 

Pekbrugge,    Pekkebrigge.    John   de, 

John,  knight,   107,   108,   109, 

111.  201.  411. 

Margaret  wife  of   John  de, 

107.  1C8,  109,  111,  201,  411. 
Pekham.  Peckeham,  James  de,  109, 

112,  201,  207,  271,  273,  327, 
332. 

Pelvkebrigge.     Sec  Pekbrugge. 
Pekkevvle,   Pekkevile,    Simon,    448, 

531. 
Pelham.  Brent,  co.  Hertford,  Beeches 

alias    Chambirlains    in,    453, 

455. 
,   Stocking,     Stokkenepelham 

[co.  Hertford],  deed  dated  at. 

514. 
Pelicote.     See  Pollicott. 
Pelynt,  Penlyn,  co.  Cornwall,  manor 

of,  409. 
Pembrigge,  Pembrugge,  Penbrucge, 

Penbrygge.    Fulk  de,   knight, 

524. 
lord  of  the  manor  of 

Kempston,    414. 

,  Henry  de   360. 

,  Joan  wife  of  John,  143. 

,  John.  14.!. 

,  Margaret  wife  of   Fulk  de, 

knight,  410. 

,  Richard  de,  knight,  229. 

Pembroke,     Pembroch     [co.     Pem- 
broke],   castle   of,    248,    286, 

287. 


Pembroke — c<i  t. 

,  cliancerv  of.  <r-.\\  i 

,  constable  of,  41<>.  489. 

,  court  of  piepowder  of,  489. 

priory  of,  advowson  of,  192, 

193. 

,  receiver  of,  508. 

,  steward  of.  547. 

Pembroke,      Pembroch,      Penbroke, 

county  of,  248.  286,  287,  386. 
,  countess     of.     See      Sancto 

Paulo,  Mary  de. 
,  earls  of,  79.     See  also  Hast- 

ynges,    John    do  ;     Valencia, 

Aymer         de ;  Valencia, 

William  de. 

,  justices  in,  506. 

,  sheriff  of,  416,  489,  508,  547. 

suit  to,  386. 

Pembrugge.     See    Pembrigge. 
Penbroke.     See  Pembroke. 
Penbroke.  William  de,  242. 
Penbrugge,    Penbrygge.     See    Pem- 
brigge. 
Pencombe,  Richard,  78. 
Pencrich.     See  Penkridee,  Penrydd. 
Poncrych.     See  Penkriduv. 
Peneshurst.     Sec  Penshurst. 
Peneys,  Pyneys,  Richard,  441. 
Pengedene.     See  Pangdean. 
Penliergard,  Katharine  daughter  of 

Bartholomew,  458,  459. 
Penkelly,  Penkethelyn  [co.  Brecon], 

barony  of,  22,  24.  26. 
Penkridyo.    Pencrich,    Pencrvch,   co. 

Stafford.   367,  485.   526. 
Penlyn.     See  Pelynt. 
Penmayne  [in  St.  Minver],  co.  Corn- 
wall, manor  of.  409. 
Penne,  Henrv  de.  chaplain,  103. 

Thomas  atte,  232. 

Penrees.  Robert,  487. 

Cf.    Penros. 

Penrith,    Penreth,   co.   Cumberland, 

Earmer  of  manor  of,  L69. 
Penros,  John,   103. 

Roger,    14. 

Cf.  Penrees. 

Penrydd,   Pencrich  [co.  Pembroke], 

advowson  of,   192,   L93. 
Penryth,  Thomas.  34. 
Pens  ursl      Peneshursl     oo.     Kent, 

107,  M  I    M"'.  121. 
advowson  of  ohapel  of.  I07t 

2oi. 
deeds    dated    at,    109,    112, 

201. 

manor  of,  107,  108,  201. 

parson    of.     See    Harewell, 

\\  illiam. 


710 


GENERAL     tNDEX. 


IVnshurst  — c<>h(. 

Park.     Xorthpark     in.     107, 

1. 

PentK'u.     Pentelowe    [co.     Essex], 
i t  I lall.  Boarfaalle  in,  77. 
H  ar\  n.  John,  512. 

ffrey,  01    London,    'mar- 
oh&V  281. 
■id,  John,  ol  Alton.  566. 

Of.   Pipard. 

r.  Robert,  82,  B3. 
lVpir.  William.  431. 
('/.   Piper. 

rant  of.  102,  17'.».  310,  395. 

306,    11  «t. 

i    Michael  de,  120. 

Feragle,  Peter,  of  the  fellowship  of 
tli«'  New  Btross',  252. 
nit.  William.  266. 

Percelmv.  Persay,  Henry,  01,  74,201. 
l>L".).  260,  327,  621. 

William,     guardian    of    the 

peace  and  justice  in  the  East 
Kitling  of  Yorkshire,  465, 
655. 

knight  of  the  shire  of 

York,  535. 

Of.  Percy. 

Perching,  Perchyngo,  Great  and 
Little  [in  Edburton],  co. 
Sussex,  manors  of,  309. 

Percy,  Henry  de,  139,  282,  286. 

,  .  . . . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  in  the  East  Riding 
of  Yorkshire,  465,  555. 

,  ....  in      the      North 

Riding   of   Yorkshire,    555. 

, marshal    of    England, 

the  king's  marshal,  467,  468, 
481. 

,  Henry  lord  de,  472. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  warden  of  the  march 

of  Scotland,  32,  389. 

,  John,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Coventry,  55,  474. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  of  the  statutes  of  Win- 
chester, Northampton  and 
Westminster  in  Coventry,  342. 

,  Philippa  (Strabolgi)  wife  of 

Ralph  de,  506,  507. 

,  Ralph  de,  knight,  506,  507. 

,  Simon  son  of   Geoffrev  de, 

531. 

,  Thomas,  bishop  of  Norwich, 

276. 

Cf.  Percehay. 

Pere,  John,  97. 

Pereres,  Perers.     See  Perriers. 


Peres,  Thomas,  of  Cottesmore,  coro- 

ii.  i-  <>i  I lut land,  477. 
Perfedd,  Perveth,  oo,  Cardigan,  com- 

mote  of,  406. 
Perhaxn,  Robert,  100. 

William.  00,  07. 

Perkyn,  David,  olerk,  248,  249. 

Perky  nsone,  John,  221. 

Perle,  Perlee,  Walter,  Walter  de,  83, 

88,  207,  4(i<). 
guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Oxford,  340. 
,  .....justice    of    assize    in 

Oxfordshire,  150. 
,  .  .  . . ,  ....  in   Staffordsluro, 

209. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  to  deliver  gaol  of 

Gloucester  castle,  209. 
Permay,   John,   citizen  of   London, 

556. 

,  William,  556. 

Perot,  Henry,  217. 

,  Thomas,  of  Worcestershire, 

346. 
Perour,  William,  215,  216. 
Perran-Zabuloe,    co.    Cornwall,    Ty- 

warnhaile,  Tywarnaill  in,  409. 
Perriers,    Pereres,    Perers,    Perreres, 

Alice,     48,     280,     359,     367, 

485. 
Persay.     See  Percehay. 
Pershore  [co.  Worcester],  242. 
Pershore,  William,  269. 
Persones,  Walter,  335. 
Persoun,  Thomas,  M.A.,  of  Oxford, 

476. 
Pert,  John,  226. 

,  William  son  of  John,  226. 

Perton,  John  de,  escheator  in  Salop, 

45,  50,  131,  314. 
, in    Staffordshire, 

121. 
,  .  .  . . ,  ....  in    the    marches 

of  Wales,  50,  131. 
Porucis,  Arnald  Johan  de,  472. 
,  Nicholas      Johan      de,      of 

Florence,   472. 
Perugia,  Perusia  [Italy],  473. 
I'erusia,  John  de,  474. 
Perveth.     See  Perfedd. 
Peryndon.     See  Pirton. 
Peryndon,  Walter,  armourer,  of  Lon- 
don, 78. 
Peshale,  Adam  de,  Adam,  161,  526, 

538. 
,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Stafford,  536. 
,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Adam  de, 

161. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


711 


Richard, 


king 


of 


Peshale — eont. 

,       Richard     de, 

knight,  430,  538. 

Cf.  Pyshale. 

Petche.     See  Pecche. 
Peter,    Petro    the    Cruel, 

Castile,  338. 
IV,  king  of  Aragon,  40,  196, 

291. 
Peter,  Bartholomew  de  Arquato  son 

of,  notary  public,  196. 
,  Robert  son  of,  de  Kyrkeby 

in  Kendale,  500. 
Peterborough     [co.     Northampton], 

abbot  of,  260. 
monk      of.       See      Brune, 

Robert  de. 
Petersham,  Pytrechesham  [in  Wim- 

borne    Minster],    co.    Dorset, 

manor  of,  132. 
Peterston,    Petreston    [co.    Glamor- 
gan], manor  of,  388. 
Petewardyne.     See  Pedwardyn. 
Petherton,  South,  Soutpederton,  co. 

Somerset,  hundred  of,  204. 
Petlyng,  Henry  de,  burgess  of  Lei- 
cester in  parliament,  430. 
Petoun,  William  de,  512. 
Petreburgh,  Thomas  de,  460. 
Petreston.     See  Peterston. 
Petristre.     See  Pettistree. 
Petsoe,   Pettesho,   co.   Buckingham. 

fee  in,  191,  192. 
Pettistree,     Petristre,     co.     Suffolk, 

advowson  of,  395. 

,  Byng,  Bengges  in,  395. 

Pety,  Nicholas,  of  London,  mason, 

344. 
Petyjon,  John,  215. 
Peuesy,  John,  clerk,  87. 

Cf.  Puyse. 

Peuteney,  Adam.  114,  345. 

Cf.  Pulteneye. 

Pevensey,     Pevense.      co.      Sussex, 

bailiffs  of,  309. 
Pevere,  Avice,  wife  of  William  de 

Clopton,  76,  78. 
Peverel,  honour  of,  149,  169. 
Peverel,    Peverell,   Andrew,    knight, 

128,  419,  420. 
,  Edmund    fitz   Herbord    son 

of  Reynold  son  of  Lucy  sister 

of  Andrew,  419,  420. 

,  John,  266. 

Brocas  son  of  Margarot 

daughter    of    Alice    sister   of 

Andrew,  419,  420. 
,  Katherine  wife  of  Andrew, 

128,  419,  428. 
Peyntour,  Nicholas,  810. 


Peyntour — cont. 

Cf.  Pany ter. 

Peyshale.     See  Pyshale. 
Peytefyn,  William,  531. 
Peytho,  John  de,  knight,  534. 

William  do.  534. 

,  ....  son  of  Jolin  de,  534. 

pheasants,  221. 

Philip,  Robert  son  of,  de  Stepulton, 

558. 

,  Stephen,  alien,  139. 

Pliilipot,   Philippot,   Phillipot,   Phil- 
pot,  John,  92,  357,  362. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen      of      London, 

253,   256. 
, merchant  of  London, 

219,  358,  440,  509. 
,  Margaret  (de  Croydon)  wife 

of  John,  219. 
Thomas,   of  All  Hallows  in 

Hoo,  468. 
Pliilippa,    queen,    13,    14,    115,    134, 

409,  485. 
,  groom  of  her  chamber.     See 

Bedeford,  Jolin. 
Philippot,     Phillipot,     Philpot.     See 

Philipot. 
Phippe,  Jolin,  24. 
Piacenza,    Plesancia    in    Lombardy, 

Plesencia   [Italy],    merchants 

of,  94,  329. 
Pi  card,  Pycard,  John,  243. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Henry,  415, 

416. 
Picardy,  Pykardy  [France],  254. 
Pichelesthorn.     See  Pitstone. 
Pickenham,   North   Pykeniuunwade, 

co.  Norfolk,  deed  dated  at,  1 95. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  1 94,  1 95. 

Pickering,      Pykeryng     forest,      co. 

York,  election  of  verderer  of, 

312. 
Pickhill,  Pykohale,  co.  York,  518. 
Piddington,  Pedyngton,   Pidyngton, 

Pidynton,      Pydyngton,      co. 

Northampton,  228. 

Ires  In,    ISO. 

.Hackle  ton,  Haelynton.Hakel- 

ton,    Jlaklynton  in.    189. 
piopowder.   pipoudres,  court   of,   at 

Pembroke,  489. 

the  king's  court  of,  417. 

Piors.  Pyers,  John,  of  Quexo,  418. 

Lopino,  529. 

Pigot,  Pygot,  John.  398. 

,  Randolph,  knight,  79. 

,  Roger,  383 

,  Thomas.  472. 

Of.  IVcot. 

Pikenham,  I'ykonham,  John,  199, 240. 


712 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Pikman.  Pykaman,  Andrew,  266. 
Gum,  MS. 

knight   of  tin'  -liiiv  of 

Mi. l.i  •  129. 

•  '.   Pj  knmond. 
Pilardynton.     S»    PQlerton. 
Pflcher,  John,  54 

PQkyngton,    Pilkynton,    Roger    de, 
guardian   o  peace   and 

justice  of  oyer  and  terminer  in 
Lancashire,  ">s 

knight  of  the  shiro  of 

Lancaster,  •">•'{."). 
PQlerton,    Pilardynton.    PQlardyng- 
ton,    Pylardynton,   oo.    War- 
wick. 4.").").  461. 

manor  of,  188,  189. 

Pilton,  William.  274. 
Pinchbeck,    Pyncebek,     Pynchebek, 
oo.  Lincoln,  62,  396,  477. 

Russell  manor  in.   396,   477. 

Pipard,  Pypard,  Margaret  daughter 
William.  .'572.  ."573. 

wife  of  Henry,   391. 

Margery    wife    of    William, 

372,  373,  374. 

Maud    (Homelyn)   daughter 

of  William,  372,  .'{7:5.  374. 

Stephen  son  ot  William,  372. 

William.  372,  373,  374. 

Of.   Pepard. 

Pipehurst,     Thomas,    goldsmith,    of 

London,  195. 
Piper,  Joan  wife  of  John,  128. 

,  John,   128. 

Cf.  Peper,  Pepir. 

Pipewell  [in  Ombersley  ?]  co.  Wor- 
cester, 255. 
Pipwell,  PippeweUe,  Pyppewelle,  co. 
Northampton,  abbot  of,  190, 
260. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  228. 

piracy,  171,  172. 

Piriton,  Pyryton,  Richard  de,  176. 

,  .  .  .  .,  clerk,   71. 

Pirnho  in  Saffron  Walden,  co.  Essex, 

fee  in,  23. 
Pirton,  Poryndon,  co.  Oxford,  manor 

of,  446. 
Pirye,  Piryman,  Pyrye,  Maud,  Maud 

atte,  215. 
,  Thomas,  burgess  of  North- 
ampton in  parliament,  430. 
Pisa  [Italy],  473. 
Pistoja  [Italy],   merchants   of,   419, 

478. 
Pitstone.     Pichelesthorn,     Pycheles- 
thorn  [co.  Buckingham],  511. 

,  deed  dated  at,  51 1 . 

Playce,  Plays,  John  de,  knight,  234. 


Playford,     Pleyforde,    <■(>.     Suffolk, 

manor  of,   64  1. 
Mccr.  MiTrliall  in,  .'521. 

Plays.     See  Playoe. 

Plesanoia,  Plesenoia.     's'"    Piaoenza. 

Pleeoy,  Plesy,  John,  223. 

Nicholas,   i 

Pleahey  [co.  Easex],  letters  close 
dated  at,  384,  441. 

Plesy.     See  Pleeoy. 

Plesyngton,  Plesynton,  Robert, 
Robert  do.  224,  250,  348.  363. 

guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  West  Hiding  of  York- 
shire. 554. 

Pleyforde.     See  Playford. 

1'lomeley.  William  do,  98. 

l'lomer,  Plummere,  John,  542,  550. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  coroner  of  Oxfordshire, 

477. 

,  Richard,  of  Taunton,  1. 

Robert,  358. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of    London,    collector, 

lessee  of  subsidy  on  cloth  in 
London  and  Middlesex,  42, 
104. 

Cf.  Plumbere. 

Ploufeld,  John  de,  clerk,   110. 

Plumbere,  Jolin,  267. 

Plummoro.     See  Plomer. 

Plummuth.     See  Plymouth. 

I'lumpton,  co.  Devon,  John  vicar  of, 
497. 

, prior  of,   497. 

[by    Towcester],     Plumpton 

St  John,  Plumton,  co.  North- 
ampton, lord  of.  See  Sancto 
Johanne,  Giles  de. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  51 5. 

Plumpton,  Robert  de,  knight,  106. 

Plumton.     See  Plumpton. 

Plymouth,  Plummuth,  Plymmouth, 
Plymmuth,  co.  Devon,  436, 
458. 

,  defence  of,  497,  498. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  168. 

,  men  of,  310,  374. 

,  port  of,  290. 

,  . . .  . ,  searchers       in.        See 

Berde,  Maurice  ;  Gille,  Wil- 
liam. 

,  ship  of,  82. 

Poche,  Simon,  coroner  of  Worcester, 
38. 

Cf.  Pouche. 

Pocklington,  Pokelyngton  [co.  York], 
560. 

,  Meltonby,  Meltynby  in,  560. 

Podenale,  William,  of  London,  523, 
524. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


13 


Podenalo  — cent. 

Cf.  Potenhale. 

Podmore,  William,  547.  548. 
Poitou.  Paitow  [France],  254,  31 6. 
Poix,    Poys   [France,   dep.    Somme], 

John  lord   of,   prisoner,    316, 

377. 

,  lord  of,  444. 

Pokelchurch,  Thomas,  of  Wiltshire, 

522. 
Pokelyngton.     See  Pocklington. 
Pokerich.     See  Puckeridge. 
Pokeswelle,  Jolin,  251. 
Polayn,  William,  433. 
Pole,  la.     See  Poole. 
Pole,    Pool,    Edmund    atte,    de    la, 

knight,  111,  532. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Buckingham,    429. 
.: ,  John     de     la,     de,      John, 

justice  of  Chester,  407. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Bilknghay,  95. 

,  .....  of  Harrington,  knight 

of  the  shire  of  Derby,  536. 

,  Katherine  de  la,  96. 

,  .  .  . .,  daughter    of    Richard 

de  Lacer.  272. 
,  ....  wife   of   Michael   atte, 

159. 
,  Maud  wife  of  Edmund  de  la, 

532. 
,  Michael  de  la,  atte,  admiral 

of  the  fleet  to  the  northward, 

467,  494. 
, ,  knight,  159,  351,  468, 

552. 
,  .  .  . . ,  mayor     of     Kingston 

upon   Hull   and   guardian   of 

the  peace  and  justice  therein, 

465. 
,  Walter  son  of  Edmund  de 

la,  532. 

Cf.  Poyle. 

Poley,  Ralph  de,  knight,  431,  555. 
, knight  of  the  shire  of 

Norfolk,  429, 
Policoto.     Sec  Pollicott. 
Pollard,  William,  199,  510. 
Polle,  Thomas  de,  goldsmith,  of  Lon- 
don, 465. 
William,  fishmonger,  of  Lon- 
don, 465, 
Pollicott,  Pelicoto,  Policoto  [in  .\sh- 

endon],       co.       Buckingham, 

manor  of,  91. 
Polstead.  I'olstede  [co.  Suffolk],  205. 
Polton,  Thomas.    100. 
Poltrevorot  [in  ETalstone  or  Thornoy- 

burn  ?],  co.  Northumberland, 

322. 


Polymond,  John,  merchant  of  South- 
ampton. 8. 

Pomesbourne,  Robert,  446,  531. 

Pom  reyt.     See   Pountfreit. 

1'ondo,  John  atte,  •  correour,'  of  Lon- 
don. 217. 

William,  of  Buckingham- 
si  lire,  71. 

,  of  Monks  Risborough, 

71. 

pontage,  316,  523,  533. 

Pontefract  [co.  York],  212. 

,  Coghill,  Coggill  in,  144. 

Ponteland.  co.  Northumberland,  507. 

,  High    Callerton,    Calverdon 

Yalens,  Little  Eland,  Mason, 
Merdesfen  and  North  Mil- 
bourne  in,  507. 

Tontesbury  [co.  Salop],  prebend  in 
church  of,  124. 

,  Oaks,  Okes  in,  483. 

Pontesbury,  John,  of  Wem,  359. 

Pontewalter.     See  Bridgwater. 

Pontfreit.     See  Pountfreit. 

Tontus,  Francis,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia, 196. 

Ponynges.     See  Poynings. 

Ponynges,  Ponyngges,  Blanche  wife 
of  Thomas  de,  176,  178,  309. 

,  Richard  brother  of  Thomas 

de,  164,  176,  178. 

,  Thomas    lord    de,     son    of 

Michael,  178. 

, ,  will  of,  178. 

,  ....  son    of     Michael     de, 

knight,  176,  309. 

Pool.     See  Pole. 

Poole,  la  Pole  [co.  Dorset],  bailiffs  of, 
366. 

,  keepers  of  passage  in  port  of, 

59. 

Pope,  the.     See  Gregory  XL 

Pope,  Poupo.  Richard,  434,  435. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  king's  searcher  at 

Gravesend,  413. 

,  Robert,  burgess  of  Glouces- 
ter in  parliament,  430. 

,  Sibyl.    29. 

Of.    Puppe. 

Popeler.     See  Poplar. 

I'oprlton.  John  do,  parson  of 
.Mot t is! out.    367. 

Popham,  l  [enry,  226. 

John.    458. 

Philip  de,   knight,   85,  226. 

Poplar.  Popeler,  co.  Middlesex, 
manor  of,  ins.  201. 

Porcheeter,  Porohestre  ca>tlo  [co. 
Bants],  janitor  of.  Sco 
Porchostro,  Jolin. 


714 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


Porohastre,  John,  the  king's  Serjeant . 
janitor  ol    Poroh<  - 1 1<- 

Farads,  Robert,  Robert  de,  i>niliff  of 
the  bishop  of  Lincoln  in 
Thame  hundred,  71 . 

of  Waddeedan,  71. 

Fort-  i .  1 1-  in  y,  86. 

Jolui.  510. 

Nicholas,  of  Middlesex,  471. 

Ralph,  the  tang's  Berjeant, 

janitor  of  Windsor  castle,  1G5. 
Robert,  of  London,  skinner, 

346. 

Of.  Ponrtonr. 

Porterevo.  Robert.  511. 
Pbrtesmouth,       Porteamuth.       See 

Portsmouth. 
Portico.  Quy  de,  f>43. 
Portisliam.    co.    Dorset,    North    and 

South  Tat  ton  in,  227. 
Portishead,    co.    Somerset,    Capenor 

in.  ."in 7. 
Portlewe,  Adam,  clerk,  544. 
Portsmouth,     Portesmouth     Portes- 

muth  [co.  Hants],  555. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament. 

637. 

,  port  of,  495. 

Portugal,  12,  41,  42. 

,  alliance  with,  8. 

,  king  of.     See  Ferdinand. 

,  merchants  of,  3,  8,  13,  168. 

,  protection  of  men  of,  101. 

,  realm  of,  8. 

,  relations  with,  13. 

,  seamen  of,  168. 

,  ships  of,   3,   12,   13,  27,  41, 

168. 

,  wine  of,  11. 

Posier,  Richard,  366. 
Posselyng,  Simon,  218. 
Possewyk.     See  Postwick. 
Postede,  Edmund  de,  23. 
Postel,  Richard,  213,  214. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Morton,  215. 

Postridge  [in  SpaxtonJ,  co.  Somerset, 

159. 
Postwick,    Possewyk,    co.    Norfolk, 

manor  of,  322. 
Potager,  Michael,  531. 
Potenhale.  Robert,  281. 

Cf.  Podenale. 

Potenham,  Roger,  knight,  245. 
PothiUFarm  [in  West  Grinstead]  ? 

the  Potte,  co.  Sussex,  128. 
Pottere,  Alice  wife  of  Thomas,  339. 
Potterspury,  Potterespirie,  Potteris- 

pyrye,  co.  Northampton,  418. 
,  manor  of,  419. 


Pot  ten.  \\  illiiiiu  de,  William,  clerk, 
228,  860. 

Of.   Putton. 

Potyn,  Nicholas,  552,  656. 

searcher  of  forfeitures 

in  the  Thames  and  London, 
126,  263,  375,  413,  502. 

Potyngton,  Roger,  95. 

Poucho.  Ralph,  510. 

Cf.  Poche. 

Pouchomakere,  Nicholas,  490. 

Poultney,  Pulteneyo  [in  Misterton, 
co.  Leicester],  107,  109,  201, 
202. 

,  manor  of,  198. 

Poulton  le  Fylde,  Kyrkpulton  in 
Amnoundernesse  [co.  Lancas- 
ter], 250. 

Poumfreyt.     See  Pountfreit. 

Poundstock,  co.  Cornwall,  Wooles- 
don,  Wolveston  in,  429. 

Pountofreyt.     See  Pountfreit. 

Pountenay,  Richard,  esquire,  251. 

,  Robert,  esquire,  251. 

Pountfreit,  Pomfreyt,  Pontfreit, 
Poumfreyt,  Pountefreyt, 

Pountfreyt,  Henry,  231. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of     London,     skinner, 

346. 

,  John,  John  de,  97,  463. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,  366. 

, merchant,  418. 

,  . . . . ,  of  London,  89. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  saddler,  of  London,  76. 

,  Robert  de,  Robert,  corn- 
monger,  of  London,  198. 

,  . .  .  . ,  grocer,  of  London,  76. 

Poupe.     See  Pope. 

Poure,  Hugh,  of  Bletchingdon,  355. 

,  Richard  son  of  Thomas,  355. 

Thomas,  355. 

,  William,  435. 

Cf.  Power. 

Pourtour,  Is',  265. 

Cf.  Porter. 

Power,  Walter,  clerk,  231. 

,  Willam,  358. 

,  ....  nephew  of  Walter,  231. 

Cf.  Poure. 

Powis,  Powys  [co.  Montgomery], 
Cherleton  of,  60,  123,  487. 

Poyanne,  Puyan  [France,  dep. 
Landes],  lord  of.  See  Tar- 
tays,  Gerald  de. 

Poyle,  Thomas  de  la,  355. 

Cf.  Pole. 

Poynings,  Ponynges,  co.  Sussex, 
manor  of,  309. 

,  Pangdean,     Pengedene    in, 

309. 


GENERAL 

Poyntz,  John,  knight,  228,  38(». 
,  Poncius    son    of    Nicholas, 

380. 
Poys.     See  Poix. 
Prantyng,  Jolin,  of  Norwich,  481. 

, cook,  481. 

Prat,  John,  135. 

, ,  clerk,    105,    248,    286, 

287,  444. 
praj-ers.  request  for,  224. 
Prees,  Robert,  Robert  ap,  426,  545. 
.......     Cf.  Rees. 

Preiers,  Preyers,  Roger,  coroner  of 

Salop,  129,  173. 
Premonstratensian      order,      abbot 

superior  of,  in  France,  32,  151. 
Prentys,  Prentiz,  Henry,  556. 
,  Joan  (Forde)  wife  of  John, 

414. 

,  John,  277,  360. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Bishop's  Stortford, 

360. 

, ,  of   Colchester,    522. 

,  Thomas,  of  London,  208. 

Prescroft,  Robert,  424. 

Preserake,    Peter,    merchant    of  La 

Rochelle,  312,  320. 
Prest,  Henry,  burgess  of  Stafford  in 

parliament,   537. 
,  William,  the  king's  serjeant, 

539. 
Prestecote,  Jolin,  83. 
Prestede,   Humphrey  de,   of  Essex, 

240. 
Preston    [in    Iwerne    [Minster],    co. 

Dorset,  550. 
,  .  .  . . ,  deeds  dated   at,    323, 

550. 
,  co.      Gloucester,      Norcott, 

Nethercote  in,  307,  308. 
(by   Favorsham),    co.    Kent, 

176. 
,  Preston   in   Amoundernesse 

[co.   Lancaster],   418. 
,  . .  . . ,  clerk  to  receive  recog- 
nisances   of    debts    in.       See 

Dutton,  William  de. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  mayor  of.    See  Meeles, 

Nicholas  de. 
,  co.  York,  Lelley  Dyke,  Dyke 

in.  431. 
Candover,     Candevere     [co. 

Hants],      parson      of.        See 

Prouet,  Gilbert. 
Deanery,  Preston,  co.  North- 
ampton, fee  in,  189. 
,  Great  [in  Kippax],  co.  York, 

367. 
,  Little  [in  Kippax],  co.  York, 

367. 


INDEX.  715 

Preston — cont. 

Richard,  Proston  [in  Hever- 

sliam],  co.  Westmoreland,  fee 

in,  49'.). 
Preston,  Alice  wife  of  Jolin  de,  212. 

,  Jolin  de,  fisher,  212. 

,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  tlio  West  Riding  of  York- 
shire, 554. 
,  . . . . ,  the  elder,  of  Westmore- 
land, 519. 

,  Richard  do,  196,  389,  500. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  corder,     of     London, 

515. 

,  Robert  de,  469. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Ipswich,  356. 

,  Thomas  do,  clerk,  327. 

, ,  knight,  189,  266,  354. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Northampton,  428. 
,  Walter    de,    chaplain,    250, 

323,   460,   547. 
Preston  of  the  Hill,  William  de,  of 

Yorksliire,  346. 
Prestwold,   co.    Leicester,   Cotes  in, 

457. 
,  Hoton,  Hauton,  Hoghton  in, 

162,  457. 
Preyers.     See  Preiers. 
Pride,  John,  548. 
Prilleston.     See  Billingford. 
Prince's      Risborough.       See      Ris- 

borougli. 
priories,  alien,  496. 
Priour,  Richard,  433. 
Pritilwell,  John  son  of  John,  289. 
proclamations  : — 

concerning  defence  of  coast,  492. 
liberties   of    Great   Yar- 
mouth, 434. 
of  eyre  of  justices,  80,  81. 
of  freo   passage   to  Waterford, 

111. 
of  truce  with  France,  253,  254, 

365. 
prohibiting  eloignment  of  men 

or  goods,  202,  208,  349. 
local    breaches    of     the 

peace,  415,  476. 
secret    sale    of    armour, 

358. 
taking  of  lampreys  with 

nets,  70. 
protecting  men  of  Portugal,  101. 
regulating  currency  of  Scottish 

coins  in   Ireland  and  the   lslo 
of  Man,  202,  203. 

trade,  103,251, 284  324, 

864,  383,  4H.  442,  ~>29. 
Promhill.     See  Broomhill. 


716 


GENERAL     IN  MA 


Ibert,  parson  of  Preston 
adover,  130. 
Pro  v  ■   Prussia. 

Prodhoe,    Prudhowe,  c<>.    Nbrthum- 

I  erland,  fishery  in,  1  s". 

I     I'rucia.   1  1. 
Prust,  Thomas,  818. 

<>t  Tw  ickenham,  21 5. 

Prygeli  Adam,  of  RunwelL  196. 
Prykeys,  Thomas,  parson  of  Swan- 

nington,    555. 
PryUeston.     Set   Billingford. 
Prylly,  Bugfa  Peter,  :i."». 

Peter, 

William  son  of  Peter,  35. 

Prymrose,    William,   of    Lancashire, 

236. 
Pryns,  John,  of  Caundle,  542. 
Publow,    Pubbelowe,    co.    Somerset, 

fee  in.  306. 
Pnekeridge,    Pokerich    [in   Standon 

and  J'.i.w      ing,  co.  Hertford], 

439,  534. 
repair    of    road    from,    to 

Wadeemill,  439. 
PulboroiiLrli.    Pulborgh  [co.   Sussex], 

271 
Pulle,  Geoffrey,  of  Gieat  Yarmouth, 

431. 
Pultenoye.  Jolinde,  kniglit,  108,  198, 

201,  202. 
Margaret  wife  of  Richard  de, 

411. 

Richard,  218. 

Robert  do.  107. 

William  de,  411. 

son   of    John   de,  108, 

201. 

Cf.  Peuteney. 

Puppe,  Geoffrey,  12  7.  ' 

Cf.  Pope. 

Purcell,  William,  the  king's  esquire, 

455. 
Purchas.  William,  85. 
Purden,  Walter,  531. 
Purfay,  Philip,  55. 
Purfrey,  Wilham,  511. 
Purleigh,  Purle  [co.  Essex],  301. 
Purleston.     See   Billingford. 
purse  for  groat  seal,  466,  546. 
Purser,  Thomas,  242. 
Purshull  [in  Elmbridge],  co.  Worces- 
ter, 383. 

,  fee  in,  493. 

Pursle,  Robert,  336. 
Putton,  Wilham  de,  449. 

Cf.  Potton. 

puture,  411. 

Puy,  Lazarus  de,  129. 

Puyan.     See  Poyanne. 


Puj  Be,  Hem  v.  (»f  KiiL'clcy,  526. 

( '/.   Peuesy. 

Pybaksr,   Hugh,  oi    London,  242. 
1\  card.      S<  i    l'i'  ftld. 

Pychelesthorn.     See    I'itstone. 

i        ■   Lee,  Robert,  230. 

Pycot,  l'\  kot,  John,  550. 

Rom  r,  439. 

William.  246. 

Cf.  Pigot 

Pydyngton.     .See   Piddington. 

Pydynton.  Alice  wife  of  Thomas  son 
of  Thomas  de,  560. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Thomas  de, 

560. 

Pye,  Robert  atte,  tailor,  of  London, 
442. 

Pyel,  PyelL  Henry,  183. 

/John,  41,  92,  101. 

,  mayor  of  the  staplo  of 

W  cstminster,  83. 

Pyers.     See  Piers. 

Pygeon,  Richard,  329. 

Pygot.     See  Pigot. 

Pylcardy.     See  Picardy. 

Pyk»,  Richard,  of  Staunton,  446. 

Pykehale.     -See  Pickliill. 

Pykeman.     See  Pikeman. 

Pykemond,  Andrew,  of  Shinfield, 
225. 

,  John,  of  Shinfield,  225. 

,  Ralph,  225. 

.......     Cf.  Pikman. 

Pykenham.     See  Pikenham. 

Pykenhamwade.     See  Pickenham. 

Pykorell,  Henry,  chaplain,  181. 

IVkcryng.     <See  Pickering. 

I'\  keryng,  Pykryng,  James  de,  433. 

,  .  .  . . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

in  the  West  Riding  of  York- 
shire, 554. 

,  knight,  363. 

,  John  de,  verderer  of  Picker- 
ing forest,  312. 

Pyklond.     See  Peak. 

Pykot.     See  Pycot. 

Pykryng.     *See  Pykeryng. 

Pykuorth,  Philip  de,  knight,  439. 

Pylardynton.     See  Pillerton. 

Pylet,  John,  of  Heckington,  495. 

Pylryn,  Raymond,  543. 

Pymme,  W  ilham,  259. 

Pympe,  Wilham,  Wilham  de,  332, 
456. 

, ,  knight,  207,  271,  273, 

533. 

Pyncebek,  Pynchebek.  See  Pinch- 
beck. 

Pynchebek,  Thomas  de,  361. 

PyncheweU,  Wilham,  of  Norfolk,  68. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


717 


Pyneys.     See  Peneys. 

Pynnere.     Pynnore,     John    son     of 

Thomas,  95, 

Thomas  de.  116. 

Pynnok,  Simon,  of  Wiltshire,  534. 
Pynnore.     See  Pynnere. 
Pynyngton,  Kali)h  da,  of  Lancashire, 

471. 

,  .  .  .  .,  .....  clerk.  525. 

Pyot,  William,  of  Garthorpe,  447. 

Pypard.     See  Pipard. 

Pyppewell.     See  Pipwell. 

Pyrleston.     See   Billingford. 

Fyrye.     See  Pirye. 

Pyryton.     See  Piriton. 

Pyshale,    Peyshale,   Jolin  de,   clerk, 

354,  356. 

Cf.  Peshale. 

Pytrechesham.     See    Petersham. 


Q 

Quainton,  Quynton  [co.  Bucking- 
ham], parson  of.  See  Rnyght, 
John. 

Quappelade.     See  Whaplode. 

Quappelade,  Qwaplade,  Whaplade, 
Whappelode,  Alexander,  336. 

,  John,  49. 

, draper,  339. 

,  Peter,  336. 

,    ....,    of    London,    draper, 

339. 

,  Thomas  Henrysone,   son  of 

Henry  de,  336,  339. 

,  William,    William    de,    357, 

400,  411,  49l'. 

Quarrendon,  Querendon,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, fee  in,  24. 

Queen  Hoo  Hall,  Quynehawos, 
Quynhaw  fin  Tewin],  co. 
Hertford.  4  53,  455. 

Queenshorough,  Quenesburgh  [co. 
Kent  ) .  castle  of.  constable  of. 
See  Foxlo,  John  de. 

,  mayor  arid  bailiffs  of.  '■)(>'>. 

,  port  of,  366. 

,  . . . .,  collector    of    customs 

and  subsidies  in.  17<>,  366. 

prison  of,   31 5. 

staple    of.    mayor    of.     See 

Cornewaile,  William. 

Queldrik,  John,  fishmonger,  ot  Lon- 
don, 61. 


Quelter,  Wilb'am,  359. 
Qucnlmrcli.  John,  62. 
QuenesimrLrh.     x       Queensborough. 
Quenvld.  Queyneld,  Quynyld,  John, 

It:?.   463,  456,   404.    514,   516, 

526,  527. 
Querendon.     See    Quarrendon. 
Querruuore    forest,     co.     Lancaster, 

election  of  verderer  of,  312. 
Querstede,  John,  of  Norfolk,  350. 
Quest       [in       Eardisley]   ?     Cli 

Clysse,  co.  Hereford,  lordship 

of,  370.  490. 
Quexo  in  Spain.  416. 
Queyneld.      See  Quenvld. 
Quick,  Qwyk  [co.  York,  in  Rochdale, 

co.  Lancaster],  513. 
Quidenham.    Quydenham,   co.   Nor- 
folk. 246. 
Quinton.  Quvnton.  co.  Northampton, 

fees  in,  189,  190. 

,  manor  of,  291. 

Quixlay,  Quixley.     See  Whixley. 
Quydenham.     See  Quidenham. 
Quvnehawes.  Quynhaw.     See  Queen 

Hoo  Hall. 
Quynton.     Sep,   Quainton,    Quinton. 
Quvnton.  Isabel  wife  of  William  de, 

51,  52,  292. 

,  Philip  de,  190. 

William  de,  knight,  51,  52, 

291.  202. 
Quynyld.     See  Quenyld. 
Qwaplade.     See  Quappelade. 
Qwitkar  in  Stockton  co.  York.  ]  64. 
Qwyk.     See  Quick. 


Raa,   John,    merchant  of    Scotland, 

171. 
Raby  [in  Staindrop,  co.    Durham]. 

Neville  of.     See  \>\  ille. 
Redeclif,  Radeclyf,  Richard  de,  the 

young*  p,  escheator  in  Lan< 

shire.    16,   38. 

Simon   <[e.   simmer,  of    Lon- 
don.   62. 

William  de,  231. 

Radeclyf.     See    Radeclif,    Ratcliffe, 

RadeL    h.     Set  Ridley. 
[es,  Thomas,  272. 

Radestoke.     See  Radstock. 

Radewynter.    See  i:^iu  inter. 


718 


GENERAL     IX1»K\ 


Radstook,  Radestoks 

lev  in.  .'!"7 

[winter,  Radewyntor,  Radwynter, 

I  \<e\.  'Jti3. 

Fee  in.  ■_■  i. 

manor  of,  17.  I  in.  117.  223. 

Rooe  manor  in,  1 6. 

broke,  John,  620. 
Ragelbury.     8a    Redghill. 
Raghton.      Sa    Raughton. 
Raghton,  Thomas  de,  1 9. 
Ragon,  Ragoun,  John,  knight,  498. 

knight  of  the  shire  of 

B<  dford,  429. 
Rainham,  Reynham  [oo.  Essex],  244. 

Renham,      licynnm.     Rcyn- 

lmm.  oo.  Kent,  206,  219,  280. 

church   of,   437. 

ESast,    Estreynham,    Reyng- 

ham   [co.    Norfolk],    William 
parson  of.  347.  359. 
Raithby  (l>\  Spibby  '.')  [co.  Lincoln], 

87. 
Raithby-.  Alan  do.  of  Raithby,  87. 
Ralph,    Margaret    daughter    of,    of 
Bennington.   345. 

See  Fitz  Rauffo. 

Ramadouf  [co.  Kilkenny  ?J,  Ireland, 

46. 
Ramesholt,  Richard.  230. 
Rameehulle,   Peter,   228,  229. 
Rammesden.     See.  Romsden. 
Rampton   [co.    Nottingham],    Stan- 
hope of.     See  Stanhope. 
Ramsburv.     co.     Wilts,     Mimbury, 

Mymhury  in,  4,  142. 
Ramsden     Bellhouse,     Rammesden 
BeUious,  co.  Essex,  fee  in,  24. 

Crays,    Rammesden     Creye, 

co.  Essex,  fee  in,  24. 

,   Wyntershell    by    Bil- 

lericay  in,  136. 
Ramsey.  John,  of  Tetbury,  529. 
Randes,  Richard,  453. 
Randolf,  Geoffrey,  of  KiDiam,  526. 

,  ....  son  of  Richard,  526. 

,  John  son  of  Geoffrey,  526. 

Richard,  526. 

,  Roger  son  of  Richard,  526. 

Rangeworthv.  Rengevvorth  [in 
Thornbury],  co.  Gloucester, 
228,  229. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  228,  229. 

ransom,  173. 

grant  of,  337,  338. 

Raskelf  [in  Easingwold,  co.  York], 
119. 

,  manor  of,  138,  144. 

Ratby  [co.  Leicester],  Ferrers  of 
Groby  in,  36,  492. 


RatcHffe  <>n  Soar,  Radeolyf  upon 
Bore  !<■".  Nottingham],  204. 

Rateeoroft,  Roger,  kinjpa  clerk,  273. 

Rathcurby  [in  tverk]  1  Rathegulby 
[co.  Kilkenny  |.  Ireland.  Hi. 

Rathkeale,  Kathgell.  co.  Limerick, 
manor  of,   L46,  1  Hi. 

Ratoun,  John,  the  youngor,  of 
Preston,  418. 

Ran,  Walter  de,  24. 

Rauel,  Thomas,  burgess  of  High  Wy- 
combe in  parliament,  430. 

Rauffe,  Rauf.     See  Fit/.  Rauffe. 

Raughton,  Kaghton  [in  Dalston],  co. 
Cumberland,  19. 

Raulyn,  Adam.  235,  237. 

,  John,  79. 

,  Richard,  79. 

,  Roger,  347. 

Raulys,  Avico  wife  of  Roger,  143. 

Roger,  143. 

Ratine'. o,  Nicholas,  113. 

l!auvnton.     See  Raynton. 

Ravendale,  Michael  de,  clerk,  64,  76, 
77,  99,  105,  237,  362. 

Raveneser.     See  Ravenser. 

Ravenesholme.     See    Ravensholme. 

Raveneston,  Nicholas  de,  canon  of 
St.  Mary,  Southwark,  317. 

Ravenser,  Raveneser,  John  de,  John, 
clerk,  71. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson    of    Algarkirk, 

520. 

,  Richard  de,  Richard,  arch- 
deacon of  Lincoln,  71,  202, 
226,  342,  343,  345,  354,  453, 
455,  464,  518,  520. 

, ,  clerk,  77,  355,  514,  530. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  . . ,    king's     clerk, 

keeper  of  the  hanaper  of 
chancery,  136,  207,  387,  397. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    ....     of      chancery, 

deputy  keeper  of  the  great 
seal,  546. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  master  of  St.  Leo- 
nard's hospital,  York,  433. 

Ravensholme,  Ravenesholme,  John 
de,  181. 

, knight,  266. 

,  John   de    Dounome  son  of 

Cicely  sister  of  William  father 
of  John  de,  181. 

,  ....  Dyn  son   of   Christina 

daughter  of  Margery  sister  of 
William  father  of  John  de, 
181. 

,  Margaret  wife  of  John  de, 

181. 

Raveningham,  Ravenyngham,  co. 
Norfolk,  chantry  at,  234, 


fiKXERAL    INDEX. 


719 


Ray,    John,    alnager    of    cloth    in 

Coventry  and  Warwickshire, 

438. 
,  .....  of    Coventry,    fanner 

of  subsidy.  206. 
Rayleigh,    Rayloye,    Reilegh,    Rey- 

legh,  [co.  Essex],  133. 

court  of,  79. 

,  honour  of.  3.  17.  134,  152. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  under-bailiff s  of.      See 

Broun,      Robert ;       Hynton, 

William  ;  Wyot,  Jolin. 
, steward  of.     See  Ders- 

ham,  Geoffrey  de. 

park  of,  keeper  of,  128. 

Raymes,    Reymes,    Agnes    wife     of 

Robert  de,  398. 

,  John  de,  220,  232. 

,  Nicholas  son  of  Robert  de, 

398. 

Cf.  Reynes. 

Rayne,  Reymes,  co.  Essex,  honour 

of,  172. 
Little,    Reynes,    co.    Essex, 

fee  in,  24. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  456. 

Raynes.     See  Reynes. 
Raynham,  Thomas,  462. 

Cf.  Reynham. 

Raynold.     See  Reynold. 

Raynton,  Rauynton,  Robert  de,  of 

Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  381. 
Reade,  William,  bishop  of  Cliichester, 

302. 
Reading,       Reddyngges,       Redyng, 

Redynges,     Rydyngges     [co. 

Berks],  117,  256,  454. 
abbey,  abbot   of,    155,   282, 

285. 
,  ....  and    convent    of, 

44. 
,  cell  of.      See    Leomin- 
ster. 
,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

430. 

,  deed  dated  at,  354. 

Rearsby,     Reresby,     co.     Leicester, 

468,  518,  519. 
Reccheford.     See  Recheford. 
Recchemonever,       Richard      Shayt 

called  Sir  William,  194. 
Recheford,    Reccheford,    John    de, 

knitfht,  87. 

., ,  Ralph  do,  knight,  87. 

records,  keeping  of,  "•!. 
Redale,  John,  238. 
Bedberd,  Thomae    170. 

,  William,  47<i. 

Hedcer,  William,  526. 
Reddegravo.     See  Redgrave 


Reddisham.     See  Redisham. 
Reddyngea.     Set  Reading. 
Redo,  Reed,  Alan,  431. 

John  (alias  Berde),  552. 

Robert,  361,  3.14. 

, parson   of    Broughton 

Astloy.   361. 

William,  215. 

Redelyngton.     See  Ridlington. 
Redemane.    See  Redman. 
Redenesse.     See  Redneaae. 
Redese,  Jolin,  of  Sheffield,  chaplain, 

441. 
Redeswell.     See   RidgewelL 
Redoswell,  John,  514. 

,  WilMam  son  of  Thomas,  166. 

Redewerde.     See  Redward. 
Redghill,   Ragelbury   [in    Winford], 

co.  Somerset,  fee  in,  307. 
Redgrave,  Reddegrave  [co.  Suffolk], 

parson     of.        See     Rokele, 

William  de  la. 
Redhefd,  John.  224. 
Redisham,  Reddisham,  co.   Suffolk, 

manor  of,  234. 
Redlegh,  Roger,  22. 
Redle.sham.     See  Rendlesham. 
Redman,    Redemane,    Matthew    de, 

Matt! ie\v,  443. 
, knight,  280,  299,  300, 

337-339    424. 

,  Richard,  knight.  338,  339. 

,  Thomas,    coroner   of    West- 
moreland, 371. 
Redmar,  John  de,  222,  223. 

Maud  wife  of  John  de,  222. 

,  Stephen  de,  223. 

Redmere,  Redmar  [in  Owthorne,  co. 

York],  223. 

deed  dated  at,  223. 

Redmersshyllo.  William  de,  532. 
Rednesse,    Redenesse,    William    de, 

king's     clerk,     purveyor     of 

victuals  for  Calais,  1. 
Redward,    la   Redewerde   in    Burn- 
ham,  co.  Essex,  545. 
Redyng,    Redynges.    See   Reading. 
Redyng,  Henry  de,  burgees  of  Wall- 

ingford  in  parliament,  537. 

,  Jolin.  281. 

Richard  de,   keeper  of  the 

warren     of      Havering     atto 

Bower,  4<>9. 
I.     See   Rede. 
Reea,  R<     John  ap,  1 12. 
eacheator  in  ( How 

terahire,  1,  3,  4,  20,  20,  31, 

33. 
in  Herefordshire, 


!0 


GENERAL     l\l>i:\ 


Reos.  John  ap  t'<r — cont. 

in     t!u>     march 

w  25. 

Cf,  Pn 

1  ihn   <!«'.    \  i< 
Ravensworth,  90. 
re.  arohbiahope'  and  bishops', 

Reener,  KUis.  of  Kent.  225. 
Reigate.  1  oo.  Surrey,  .'>7<>. 

Colley  in.  370. 

Reilegh.     Set    Rayleigh. 
religion,  profession  of,  132. 
Rendksham,    Redlesham    [Vo.    Suf- 

folk],  advowson  of,  644. 

manoi  ' .  544. 

Rengeworth.     Set     Rangeworthy. 

ofiam.     >'' <  Elainham. 
Renter,  John.  272. 
Repham.  Jolm  de,  citizen  of  London, 

235. 
Reppcs.  Jolm  de,  470. 
Reppynghale.     See  Repynghale. 
Repton,  Repyngdon,  co.  Derby,  188, 

180,   409. 
Repvnglmle.  Reppynghale,  Repyng- 

ale,  Jolm  de,  94,  202. 

steward  of  the  lord  of 

Barton  on  H  umber,  451. 
Reresby.     See  Rearsby. 
Reresbv.  Thomas  do,  knisrht,  coroner 

of  Yorkshire,  423. 
Res.     See  Rees. 
Resceyvour,    William,    coroner    of 

Bucldnghamshire,    497. 
Rcsoun,  William.  218,  339. 

Cf.  Reysoun. 

Restaok,  John.  103. 
Restwold.     Elizabeth     daughter    of 
Ralph  de,  260. 

,  ....  wife  of  William  son  of 

Ralph  de,  52. 

Joan  daughter  of  Ralph  de, 

260. 

.Ralph  de,   Ralph,   52,  225, 

260. 

William  son  of  Ralph  de,  52, 

260. 
Retford,  Rettford,  Henry  de,229, 327. 

,  John  de,  parson  of  Sulhamp- 

stead  Ranister,  441. 
Retherfeld.     See    Rotherfield. 
Retherhithe.     See  Rotherhithe. 
Rethersthorp.     See     Rothersthorpe. 
Rettford.     See  Retford. 
Revo,  Richard  le,  349. 

,  Thomas   le,    bishop   of    Lis- 

more  and  Waterford,  482. 
Revell.  Rive],  John  son  of  William, 
107,  108,   111. 


Revoll.  John — rout. 

of    Buckley,   107. 

Re\ eshale,  John  de,  226. 
Rewardyn.     8ee    1 1  nan  loan. 
Rewe,  Thomas  atte,  L59. 
Rewenhale.     Set  RivenhalL 
Rey,  la.     See  Rye. 
Reydon,  co.  Suffolk,  fee  in.  24.  25. 
Reydon,  John  de,  of  Stanway,  116. 
Reygate.     Set  Reigate. 
Reylegh.     Set  Raj  leigh. 
Reymes.     See  Raymes,  Rayne. 
Reymundi,  Mllis.  ma-tor  general  of 

friars  preachers,  ">56. 
Reynald.     Set    Re   aold. 
Reynam.     Set  Rainham. 
Reynes.     See  Rayne. 
Reynes,  Raynes,  Thomas  do,  knight, 
352,  353,  426. 

knight  of  the  shire  of 

Buckingham.  636. 

lieutenant  of  constable 

of  Dover  castle,  149. 

Cf.  Raymes. 

Reyngham,    Reynham.       See  Rain- 
ham. 
Reynham,  Edmund  de,  knight,  24, 
321. 

Cf.  Raynham. 

Reynold.  Reynold,  Reynald,  Isabel 
-u  ifo  of  \\illiam,  161. 

,  Joan  wife  of  William,  143. 

Walter,  of  Thorndon,  325. 

,  William,  143,  161. 

Reynwelle  William,  127. 
Reysoun,  John,  100. 

Cf.  Resoun. 

Rhodes,  Rodes,  island  of,  bull  dated 

at,  331. 
,  convent  of  St.  John  of  Jeru- 
salem at,  297,  298,  330. 

master  of  the  hospital  of  St. 

John   of   Jerusalem   at,   297, 
298,  486. 

,  i>nor  0f  hospital  of  St.  John 

of  Jerusalem  at,  333. 
Rhythyn,   Ruthyn  [in  Llanilid,   co. 

Glamorgan],  306. 
Ribbesford,      Constance      wife      of 

Walter  de,  knight,  481. 
Ricardes,  John,  100. 
rice,  291. 

Richard   prince  of   Wales,   duke   of 

Cornwall  and  earl  of  Chester, 

406,  420,  421,  467,  487,  501, 

504,  505. 

Richard,  Henry  son  of,  de  Sale,  334. 

,  John  son  of  Robert  son  of, 

de  Brampton,  127. 
Roger,  344. 


<i:XERAL    INDEX. 


721 


Richard — cont. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Robert  son 

of,  de  Brampton.  127. 

See  Fitz  Richard. 

Richardesson,    John,    of    Scotland. 
263. 

Richard's  Castle  [co.  Salop],  Talbot 
of,  481,  493. 

Riche,  Ralph  Bassot  le,  191,  192. 

,  Richard,  517. 

Richemond,  John  son  of  Godfrey,  of 
Thaxted.  514. 

,  Richard  do,  222. 

,  .  . .  . ,  guardian   of  the  peace 

in  the  North  Riding  of  York- 
shire, 555. 

Richmond   alias   Sheen  manor   [co. 
Surrey],  deeds  dated  at,  72. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  letters  close  dated  at, 

228.  289,  486,  524,  528,  534, 
535,  539,  540,  542. 

,     Richemont,      Richemund, 

Rychemund  [co.  York],  arch- 
deacon of,  65. 

,  .  .  .  .,  earl  of.  144.     See  also 

Monte  Forti,  John  de. 

,  honour  of,  158. 

Rickling,  Riclyngg  [co.  Essex],  259. 

Rickmans-svorth,       Rykemeresworth 
[co.  Hertford],   67. 

Ricolf,  John,  the  younger,  344. 

Riddyng,  John  atte,  116. 

Ridge,  Rugge,  co.  Hertford,  83. 

Ridgewell,  RedeswelL  co.  Essex,  481. 

Ridley,    Radelegh    [in   Terling],   co. 
Essex,  fee  in,  22. 

Ridlington,   Redelyngton,   co.   Nor- 
folk, 221. 

,  Ridlyngton    [co.     Rutland], 

park  of,  154. 

Ridlyngton,  William,  master  of  Man- 
ton  chantry,  176. 

Rie,  la.     See  Rye. 

Rieux,  Ryvves  [France,  dep.  Morbi- 
han],  castle  of,  417,  489. 

Rigau,  Francis,  40. 

Liu'ges,  George,  goldsmith,  of  Lon- 
don, 217. 

Riggesby,  Edmund  do,  of  Leake,  87. 

Rigmaj  ''■  ii.  Thomas  do,  500. 

Rihale.     See  Ryhale. 

Rikdoun,  Robert.  267. 

of  Essex,  271. 

Rikylle,  William,  of  London,  363. 

Rillaton  [in  Linkmhorne]    CO.  Corn- 
wall, manor  of,  409. 

Rillington,  Rillyngton,  co.  York,  146. 

ring,  document  sealed  with,  287. 

Ringwood,  co.   Hants,  All' 
holo  in,  284. 

Wt.    11824. 


Ripo,  Ryppe,  co.  Sussex,  manor  of, 

41!t. 
Ripley,   co.    York,    parson   of.     See 

Moubray,  John. 
Ripon,  co.  York,  210. 
Ripon,  Rypon,  John  de,  436. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  York,  433. 

Ripple,  John.  336. 

Risborough,    Monks,   Risburgh   [co. 

Buckingham],  71. 
,       Prince's,     Risbergh,      co. 

Buckingham,  manor  of,  408. 

, ,mill  at,  408. 

Risceby,  William  de,  121. 

Rislee,  John,  360. 

Risshindon.     See  Shepney. 

Riston,  Hugh  de,  470. 

Rithe,  Rythe,  Thomas  atte,  64,  362. 

Rivel.     See  Re  veil. 

Rivenhall.    Rewenhale    [co.    Essex], 

265. 
Rivere.     See  Ryver. 
Rixton,  Matthew  de,  14. 
road,  ropair  of,  30,  439. 
Robert  II,  tho  king's  cousin  of  Scot- 
land, 389,  400. 
Robert,  Adam  son  of,  do  Hodershalle, 

98. 
,  Ela  wife  of  Thomas  son  of, 

de   Bradeston,    31. 
,       Elizabeth     daughter      of 

Thomas  son  of,  de  Bradeston, 

31. 
Mancer  son  of,  in  Wykham, 

510. 

,  Olivor,  of  Norfolk,  273,  274. 

,  Robert  son  of,  de  Huscrof t, 

558,  559. 

,  Thomas  son  of,  de  Toft,  398. 

Robertson,   Richard,  236. 
Robyn,  Richard,  of  London,  70. 
Robynet,  John,  505. 

William,  of  Sileby,  519. 

Robynson,  William,  34. 

Rocestor,    Roucostro    [co.    Stafford], 

prior  and  convent  of,  471. 
Rochdale,  co.  Lancaster  and  York, 

Quick,     Qwyk    and     Saddlo- 

worth,     Sadelworthfrith     in, 

513. 
Roche  [by  Tickhill,  co.  York],  abbot 

and  convent  of,  I 
Rocho,  Isabel  wife  of  John  dv  la.  393. 

lohn,  383. 

, of  London,  438. 

of  Norfolk,  47<'. 

Rooheford.     Set   Rochford. 
oheford,  John  de,  knight  of 

shire  <>i  Lincoln,  530. 
Thomas,  'Jim.  254. 

in  to 


GENERAL     INDIA. 


1.  Thomas— cont. 
o\     Leaden    Roding, 

:.i  i. 

He,  I. n.  Rod  el  [France,  * I**p. 

Charente  [nferieure],  26 1. 

merohanl  <>f.  312,  320. 

Roches,  John,  ki  »9. 

Rochester,  Rouchestre,  oo.  Cent,  51, 

.'7. 

castle  of,  321. 

oonstable    of. 

Burgh,  Simon  de. 

masters  of  works  at. 

hi  low,  and  a  i    Basj  nges, 
William. 

citizen  of,  366. 

deeds  dated  at,  363.  367. 

John    prior    of.    master    of 

works    nt     R  r    castlo 

and  Gravesend,  321. 

\prllanc  in.  ."!(i(i. 

Rochford,    Rocheford   hundred,   co. 

ex,  constable  of,  <>. 
Hock,    Roke,  CO.    Worcester,  fee  in, 
493. 

Uton,  Bolton  in,  483. 

Rockingham     [co.     Northampton], 
-tie  of,  253. 

letters  close  dated  at,   157, 

251,  262,  2.56. 
Rodeney.  John.  John  de,  307. 

' knight,  307. 

Roderham.     Sec  Kotheiham. 

Lerham,  JoJin,  463. 
Koderyk,  Fernando,  529. 
Rodes.     See  Rhodes. 
Roding,  Rothyng  [co.  Essex],  3. 

,  Abbess,   RotJiing.    Rothyng 

Abbesse  [co.  Essex],  447. 

,  .  .  .  .,  deed  dated  at,  447. 

, fee  in,  23. 

Berners,    Rothyng   Berners, 

co.  Essex,  fee  in,  122. 

Leaden,  Ledenrothynge  [co. 

Essex],  514. 

,  White,  White  Rothyng,  co. 

Essex,  advowson  of,  51. 

,  . . .  . ,  manor  of,  51. 

Rodington,    Rodyngton,    co.    Salop. 

319. 
Rodlond,  John,  clerk,  539. 
Rodney,  Stoke.     See  Stoke. 
Rodome,  Emma  (de  Espele)  wife  of 
William  de,  20. 

,  William  de,  20. 

Rodyng,  Kothyngge,  Giles  de  Sancto 
Johanne  son  of  Isabel  wife  of 
Richard  de,  vintner,  of  Lon- 
don, 515. 
,  John,  of  London,  349. 


Rodyngton.     S<c    Rodington,    Rud- 
dington. 

Rod]  nii'iic  John,  171. 
I  toger,  Robert  son  of.  1 7. 
William  son  of,  of  Benning- 
ton. 345. 
I  own-son.       William,       of       Kirton, 
coroner  of   Lincolnshire,   173. 
Rogrom,  Simon.  241. 
Rois,  thread  of,  21. 
RokB.     See  Rock,  Rook. 
Rokeby,  Thomas  de,  443. 
Rokele,  (ieoffrey  do,  Geoffrey,  clerk, 
39,  320. 

,  Godfrey  de  la,  113,  259. 

John,  359. 

de  la.  255. 

,  Robert  de  la,  22. 

William    de    la,    parson    of 

Redgrave,  255. 
Rokesburgh,  William,  257. 
Rokesdon.     See  Roxton. 
Rokesle.     See  Ruxley. 
Rokeswelle.     See  Roxwell. 
Rokewode.     See  Rokwode. 
Rokhaghe,  William,  471. 
Rokhawe,  Hervey,  70. 

,  . .  . . ,  goldsmith,  of  London, 

93. 
Rokwode,     Rokewode,     Rookwode, 
John,  John  de,  172,  205,  234, 
240,  354-356,  361. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Norfolk, 

169,  187,  188,  193,  308,  315, 
395,  404. 

, , in    Suffolk,    175, 

177,  187,  188,  305,  312,  371- 
373,  393,  395,  404. 

,  Thomas   de,    Thomas,    205, 

447. 
Rolesham.     See  Rowsham. 
Rolf,  John,  532. 

,  Nicholas,  216. 

,  Richard,  204. 

,  Thomas,  merchant  of  Lon- 
don, 553. 

,  Walter,  232. 

,  William,  459. 

Rollesby,  John,  471. 

Rolleston,  Rolveston,  co.  Leicester, 

manor  of,  257. 
Rolvenden,  Rolvendenne,  Rolvyn- 
den,  co.  Kent,  Maytham, 
Mayham,  Mayhamme,  May- 
thamme  in,  271,  273,  332, 
456,  533. 
Rolves,  Henry,  199. 

,  John,   51 3. 

Rolveston.     See  Rolleston. 
Rolvynden.     See  Rolvenden, 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


723 


Romarius.     Romer,    Francis,     mer- 
chant of  Catalonia,  196.  291. 
Romayn,  Romyn,  John,  183. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Idsworth,  80. 

Rome,  court  of,   28,   G9,   183,    211, 

422. 

,  pope  of.     See  Gregory  XI. 

see  of ,  200,  542,  548. 

Rome,  John.  486. 

Romene,  Romeneye.     See  Romney. 
Romer.     See  Romarius. 
Romesey.     See  Romsey. 
Romeseye,      Romesy,       John     de, 

treasurer  of  Calais,  323. 
Walter,   Walter  de,   knight, 

229,  233,  307,  362. 
Romford,    co.    Essex,    East   House, 

Esthous     and     Gidea      Hall, 

Gydyhalle  in,  332,  341. 
Romney,    Romene,    Romeneve    [co. 

Kent],  bailiffs  of,  296." 

,  coast  of,   10. 

,  seamen  of,  149. 

Romsey,  Romesey  [co.  Hants],  449. 
,  abbess     of.     See     Camoys, 

Isabel  de. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  449. 

Romyn.     See  Romayn. 

Ronhale,  Richard,  warden  of  King's 

Hall,  Cambridge,  180. 
Roo,     John,     of     Great     Bardfield, 

246. 

Cf.  Rowe. 

Roodburgh,  William,  coroner  of  co. 

Gloucester,  49. 
Rook,  Roke,  Richard,  78,  253. 

,  . .  .  .,  of  Westminster,  426. 

,  . . . .,  the  elder,  64. 

Rookwode.     See  Rokwode. 

Roos  manor  in  Radwinter,  co.  Essex. 

16. 
Roos,  Alice,  465. 
,  ....   wife  of  John  de,    16, 

17,  20. 

,  James  de,  233. 

,  John  de,  John,  knight,   16, 

17,  24. 
,  Richard   do,   knight  of   the 

shire  of  Westmoreland,  S35. 

,  Robert  de,  knight,  23.3. 

Thomas  de,  knight,  lord  of 

Helmaley,  362,  367. 
Ropell',  Philip  do,  23. 

Cf.  Ropple. 

Ropere,  John,  of  Wells,  collector  of 

the    tenth    and    fifteenth    in 

Somerset,  1. 

Cf.   Rupere. 

Ropple,  Richard,  539. 

Cf.   Ropell'. 


Rosbercon,  Rosbargan  [co.  Kil- 
kenny], Ireland,  borough  of, 
46. 

mills  of,  46. 

Rose,  Edmund,  110,  446. 

Henry,  220,  221,  232. 

,  John  son  of  Edmund,  110. 

Thomas.  246,  247. 

rose,  rent  of,  197.  226,  239,  242,  243, 
272.  328,  333,  433,  448,  450. 

Roselli.     See  Russell. 

Ross,  Old,  Oldecrosse,  Rosse  [co. 
Wexford],  Ireland,  387. 

,  barony  of,  387. 

Rossinan,  Royfynan  [co.  Kilkonny], 
Ireland,  46. 

Rote,  Thomas,  339. 

Roteland.     See  Rutland. 

Rotele,  John  son  of  Hugh,  510. 

Rothe,  Lawrence  Van,  alien,  413. 

Rothelay,  William  de,  of  Yorkshire, 
65. 

Rotherfeld,  Adam  de,  coroner  of  co. 
York,  3. 

Rotherfield,  Rotherford  [co.  Sussex], 
manor  of,  488. 

,  farmer  of.     See  Strete, 

William. 

Greys,  Rotherfeld,  Rother- 
feld [co.  Oxford],  Grey  of,  148, 
155,  202,  426. 

Rotherham,  Roderham  [co.  York], 
357. 

Rotherhithe,  Retherhithe,  co. 
Surrey,  489. 

,  manor  of,   keepers  of.     See 

Couy,         Peter ;  Scarlet, 

Stephen. 

,  places  named  in,  489. 

Rothersthorpe,  Rethersthorp,  co. 
Northampton,  fee  in,   190. 

Rothery.     See  Rudry. 

Rothewell.     See  Rothwell. 

Rothewoll,  John  de,  knight,  355. 

Rothing.     See  Roding. 

Rothry.     See  Rudry. 

Rothwell,  Rothowell,  co.  Lincoln,  fee 
in.  102. 

,  Rothewell  [co.  Northamp- 
ton |,  228,  230. 

Rothyng.     See  Roding. 

RotliviiLrjii'.     See  Rodyng. 

Rotour.  Richard,  king's  clerk,  con- 
Btable  <>f  Bordeaux,  480,  482. 

Thomas,  344. 

Roucoby.  John,  clerk,  528. 

Roucostre.     See  Rocester. 

Rouohestre.     See  Rochester. 

Rouclif,  Rouclj  f.  Rouolyffe,  Guy  do, 

04. 


-:» 


GENERAL     1NDKX. 


Rouclif.  Gu\  nt. 
'..  clerk.   861,   M2, 

BB2. 
panon   of    l  far*  orth, 

519. 

John  ilc.  of  Yorkshire,  522. 

the  younger,  I B 

odon,  William  <le.  540. 

clerk.    7'>. 

RoughaD.     8m    Rowehill. 
Roughford.     See  Kufforth. 
Rouhtasdale,  Matthew,  chaplain,  62. 
Rouldeeton,  John  <lc.  clerk.  451. 
Roundthwaite,       Rnnthwayte      [in 
Orton].     co.     Westmoreland, 

Roundhay,  Rounhay,  Nicholas,  276, 

277 
Roungetounhotme.     See  Runcton. 
Rounhay.     8et  Roundhay. 
us,  Adam,  'leohe,'  374,  375. 

Elizabeth  wife  of  Richard, 

120. 

Joan  wifo  of  Robert,  145. 

John.  John  le.  217,  238,  459. 

of  Norton  Mandeville, 

L07. 

son  of  Richard,  378. 

Nicholas,  110. 

Richard,  120. 

,  Robert.  551. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight,  145. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Bedfordshire, 

435. 

,  mavor    of    Bordeaux. 

385. 

Thomas,  301. 

Rousande   marsh   in   Hadloigh,    co. 

Essex,  38. 
Rowe,  Alan,  510. 

Cf.  Boo. 

Rowehill,     Roughall,     Rowhall     [in 
Wilmington],  co.  Kent,  manor 
of,  357,  435. 
Rowington,    Rowynton    [co.    War- 
wick], 255. 
Rowsham,  Rolesham  [in  Wingrave], 

co.  Buckingham,  245. 
Rowynton.  See  Rowington. 
Roxheth,  William  son  of  William  de. 

116. 
Roxton,  Rokesdon,  co.  Bedford,  341. 
Roxwell,  Rokeswelle  [co.  Essex],  402. 

,  deed  dated  at,  463. 

,  Xewland,    la    Neulond    in 

463. 
Royfynan.     See  Rossinan. 
Ruardean,  Rewardyn  [co.   Glouces- 
ter], 194. 
Rud,  John,  chaplain,  230. 


Rndby    En    Cleveland    [co.    York], 

Skutterskelfe,  Scotherskelf  in, 

500. 
Ruddington,   Rodyngtoa   [co.    Not- 
tingham],    parson     of.      See 

IVfiddeltcm,  Thomas  <le. 
Ruddok,  John,  215. 
Rudestan,  Walter,  329. 
Rudry,    Rothery,    Rothry  [co.   Gla- 

morgan],  306. 

advowson  of,  308. 

RulTord.  John,  prior  of  Llanthony, 

1  52. 
Rufforth,     Roughford,     co.     York, 

manor  of,  452,  454. 
Rugeley,  Ruggeley[oo.  Stafford],  526. 
Rugewyne,    Ruggewyn,   John,   204, 

257,  453. 
Ruggo.     Sec  Ridge. 
Ruggele   Richard,  receiver  of  moneys 

of  the  earl  of  Pembroke,  207. 
Ruggeley.    See  Rugeley. 
Ruggewyn.     See  Rugewyn. 
Rukeld,  William,  514. 
Rulcwjke,     John,     chamberlain     of 

Roger  do  Bello  Campo,  411. 
Runcton,  South.  Roungotounholme, 

co.  Norfolk,  516. 
Runthwayte.     See   Roundthwaite. 
R unwell,  co.  Essex,  196. 
Rupere,  William  de,  191,  192. 

Cf.  Ropere. 

Rusale,  WilHam,  121,  122. 
Rushden,  co.  Hertford,  Cumberlow, 

Comberlowe,  Cumbirlowe   in, 

453,  455. 
Rushton,  Ruston,  co.  Northampton, 

fee  in,  190. 
Russell,  Russel  manor  in  Pinchbeck, 

co.  Lincoln,  395,  477. 
Russell,  Russel,  Alice  wife  of  Ralph, 

129,  492. 

,  Jolm,  of  Seagry,  327. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  verderer     of     Braden 

forest,  49. 

,  Ralph,  knight,  129,  492. 

,  Nicholas.     See  Russelli. 

,  Richard,   girdler,   438. 

, ,  of  Stoke  Dry,  68. 

Russelli,  Roselli,  Russell,  Nicholas, 

183. 
,  .  . . . ,  merchant  of  Florence, 

183. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  London,    1 73, 

182,.  440. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of  the  fellowship 

of  the  Strozzi,  172,  440,  472, 

474. 
,  .  .  .  . , of  Thomas 

Marchj  de  Strozzis,  473. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


725 


Russok,  Thomas,  prior  provincial  of 

the  friars  preachers  in  Eng- 
land, 402. 
Rust,  Robert,  merchant  of  Blakeney, 

404. 
Ruston.     See  Rushton. 
East,  Estriston,  co.  Norfolk, 

221,  232. 
Ruthin,  Ruthyn  [co.  Denbigh],  Grey 

of,  244,  487. 
Ruthyn.     See  Rhythyn,  Ruthin. 
Rutland,      Roteland,      county     of, 

coroners  of,  477. 
,  escheator  in.     See  Carnelles, 

John ;     Seymour,    Nicholas  ; 

Tyndale,  John. 

,  forest  of,  40,  1 54. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

536. 

,  sheriff  of,  37,  477. 

,  taxation  in,  42,  368. 

Ruxley,  Rokesle  [in  North  Cray,  co. 

Kent],  advowson  of,  507. 

manor  of,  507. 

Ruys,  Alphonso,  529. 

,  Pedro,  529. 

Ry,  Jolin,  204. 

Ryal.     See  Ryhale. 

Ryburgh,  Walter,  merchant,  13. 

Rychemund.     See  Richmond. 

Rvdale.     See  Ryedale. 

Rydere,  Robert,  281. 

Rydyngges.     See  Reading. 

Rye,  la  Rev,  la  Rio,  la  Rye,  lo  Rye 

[co.  Sussex],  31,  57,  94. 

,  array  in,  349. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  10,  57, 

349. 
,  port  of,  collectors  of  customs 

in,  10. 
Ryedale,  Rydalo,  co.  York,  334,  399. 
Rye  House,   lo   Rye  in   Otford,   co. 

Kent,  manor  of,  37,  98. 
Ryhale,     Rihulo;      Ryal,      Richard, 

escheator   in   Worcestershire, 

305,  306,  308,  311,  379,  3J 
,  .  .  .  .,  of  Worcestershire,  217, 

522. 
Rykemeresworth.        See  Rickmans- 

worth. 
Ryngbourno,     Ryngebournc,     Hugh 

ae.   1S6. 
,  \\  illiam,  knight  oi  the  shire 

oi  Southampton,  429. 
Ryngburgh,  Hugh  do,  630. 
Ryngeboumt'.     Si  t  Ryngboume. 
Rynglond,  Richard,  the  younger,  of 

Northamptonshire,  75. 
Rypon.     See  Ripon. 
Ryppo.      Sec  Ripe. 


Ryseburgh,  Jolin,  vicar  of  Harrow, 

115,  116. 
Rysom,     Rysum    [in    Hollym,    co. 

York],  223. 
Ilythe.     See  Ritho. 
Ryver,  Rivere,  Isabel  wife  of  Thomas 

de  la,  85,  295. 

Thomas  de  la,  85,  295,  427. 

,  .  .  .  .,  parson    of    Brandsby, 

224. 
,  William  de  la,  son  of  Jolin 

de  la,  lord  of  Brandsby,  22 4. 
Ryvers,  Robert,  308. 
Rywes.     See  Rieux. 


Sabina,    bishop    of.     See    Blandiac, 

Jolin  do. 
Sabram,    Nicholas    de,    burgess    of 

Newcastle     upon     Tyne     in 

parliament,   429. 
Sabrichesworth.  See    Sawbridge- 

worth. 
Sabrichesworth,  Thomas  de,  king's 

clerk,  200,  261. 
Sabyndene.     See  Shabden. 
Sacomb,   Sauecombe,   co.   Hertford, 

manor  of,  174. 
Sadolero.  Robert,  the  king's  sorjeant, 

279. 
saddles,   39. 
Saddleworth,     Sadelworthfrith    [co. 

York,  in  Rochdale,  co.  Lan- 
caster],  513. 
Sadyngton,  Jolin  de,  84. 

,  . . . .,  of  Yorkshire,  4! 

Saffont,  Nicholas,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia, 196. 
saffron,  413. 
Saffron  Walt  Ion,  Walden.  co.  Essex, 

abboy  of,  advowson  of,  2i>. 
,     ,    abbot    of,    23,     2,4. 

185,  186. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ....  and   convont   of, 

L86. 
, monk  of.  See  Ben; 

ton,  Thomas  de, 

fee  in.  2:5.  24. 

Kiimorthy,  Kybworthey  in, 

23. 
St.  Alban's  [co.  Hertford],  234,  236. 
abbot  of,  287,  282,  286,  1*17, 

561. 


rse 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


M.  Alban's-  <•<</<*. 

ti(H(l  acknowledged  at,  237. 

deed*   dated   at,   232,   ■: 

\s>ipli  |ci>.  Flint  ].  bishop  of. 

Bpridlj  ogton,  \\  illiaxn  d(>. 
bishopno    of,    guardians   of 

spiritualities  of,  '- 
St.  Augustine,  order  of .     Set   friars. 
St.  Austell  I  Sornwall,  Tew ing- 

ton.  Tewyngton  in,  409. 
St.  Bees,  Bt.  Bode,  oo.  Cumberland, 

chantry  at  the  Lund  by,   ",:;. 
St    Botolph.     fl 

St.  Brian's,  St.  Briovel  [co.  Glou- 
cester], castle  of,  constable  of. 
I  '.i  iene  I  luy  de. 

prison  in,  1!»4. 

Saintl)iirv.  -  bury  [oo.  (Houcos- 

.  340. 
St.  Columb  Major,  OO.  Cornwall.  Tal- 

skiddy.  Talskedy  in,  409. 
St.  Davids  [co.  Pembroke  |.  advowson 

of  cathedral  church  of,  420. 
bishop    of.     See   Houghton, 

Adam  de. 

St.  DenyB,  St.  Dennis,  by  Southamp- 
ton [in  Southampton],  co. 
Hants,  prior  and  convent  ol, 
297. 

St.  Donat's,  St.  Donat  in  the  march 
of  Wales  [co.  Glamorgan],  fee 
in.  308. 

St.  Edmund.  See  Bury  St.  Ed- 
munds. 

St.  Erkenwald,  beir  of,  in  St.  Paul's 
church,  334. 

Saintes,  Xaintez  [France,  dep. 
Charcnte  Inferieure],  bishop 
of,   114. 

St.  Fagan,  co.  Glamorgan,  advowson 
of,  327. 

,  castle  and  lordship  of,  327. 

St.  Giles  Upwynbum.  See  Wimborne 
St.  Giles. 

St.  John  Lee,  co.  Northumberland, 
Beaufront,  Beaufrount  in, 
342. 

St.  John  of  Jerusalem,  hospital  of, 
chapter  of,  at  Avignon,  330. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  convent  of,  at  Rhodes. 

297,  298,  330. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  master  of,  at  Rhodes, 

297,  486.     See  also  Julliaco, 
Robert  de. 

,     .  .  .  . ,    possessions     of,     in 

Scotland,  298,  330. 

,  .  .  .  .,  preceptor  of,  in  Scot- 
land.    See  Scot,  Robert. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  prior  of,    304. 


Bt.  John  of  Jerusalem)  hospital  of, 

prior  of — cunt. 
in      I  "  1 1  ■  I  - 1  1 1  ■  1 .      6, 

162,  212,  282,  286,  838,  4fi7. 
186,  624.  Set  also  llalos, 
Robert  de. 

,  John,  103. 

,     .  .  .  .,    Robert, 

193. 

in  France,  298. 

, in  Ireland.      See 

Tany,  William. 
,  receiver-general  of,  in 

England.  See      Overton, 

Richard  de. 
St.    Malo,    Stint    Malois  del  Isle  in 

I »]  ittany  [dep.  Jllo  et  Vilaine,] 

21. 
St.  Margaret's  alias  Thele,  co.  Hert- 
ford, manor  of,  102. 
St.   Maughan's,    Maugan   [co.   Mon- 
mouth], advowson  of,  25. 
St.    Michael,    Long    Stratton.       See 

Stratton. 
on    Wyre,    co.     Lancaster, 

Great    Eccleston    in,    250. 
,  parson  of.  Sec  Hornby, 

William  do. 
St.  Minver,  co.  Cornwall,  Penmayne 

in,  409. 
St.   Neot's   [co.   Huntingdon],   prior 

and  convent  of,  233,  524. 
,  Wintringham,       Wyntryng- 

ham  in,  233. 
St.  Nicholas  of  Dondarna,  ship  of, 

291. 
Saintogno,  Santonge  [France],  254. 
St.  Pol,  Sancto  Paulo  [France,  dep. 

Pas-de-Calais],   count  de,    of 

France,  custody  of,  121,  123. 
St.  Sebastian.     See  San  Sebastian. 
St.    Stephen's,    co.    Hertford,    Park 

Street,  Parksokene,  Parksokne 

in,  83,  234,  236. 
Sakeville,     Thomas     de,     Thomas, 

knight,  260. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Marlesford,  514. 

Salcote,     Saltcote,    co.    Essex,     23, 

521. 
Salden  [in  Murslev,  co.  Buckingham], 

278. 
Saldvns,  Avice,  143. 
Sale,"  Alice  de,  236. 

,  Henry  de,  236,  334,  359. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  servant  of  Henry  de 

Atherton,  334. 

,  ....  son  of  Richard  de,  334. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  of 

Bedford,  334. 
,  Richard,  121,  122. 


CKXERAL    INDEX. 


TJ7 


Sale — cont. 

Thomas,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia. 196. 

Cf.  Salle. 

Saleebirs,  John,  70. 
Salisbury.  Tliomasdo.  knicht,  77. 
William  de,  burgess  of  Leo- 
minster in  parliament,  537. 
Salghale,  Roger.  173. 
Salisburv.  New  Sarum,  Saresbirs  [co. 
Wilts],  13,  295. 

,  bailiffs  of,  529. 

,  bishop    of.       See    Ergham, 

Ralph  ;   Wivill.  Robert, 

,  .  .  .  . ,  inn  of,  in  Fleet  Street, 

444. 

,  bishopric    of,    voidance    of, 

153. 

,  earl  of.     See  Monte  Acuto, 

William  de. 

,  mayor  of,  529. 

,  merchants  of,  88. 

,  St.  Mary's  church,  canons  of. 

See  Cheyne,  John  ;  Hayton, 
Richard  ;    Wichford,  Robert. 

, dean  and  chapter  of, 

153. 

,  . . .  . ,  sub-dean       of.        See 

Glynton,  William  de. 

,  sale  of  sweet  wine  in,  529. 

Salkeld,  John  de,  34. 

,  Richard  de,  34. 

Sail   [co.  Norfolk],  parson  of.      See 

Cokefeld,  Adam  de. 
Salle,  Richard,  of  London,  89,  90. 

,  Walter,  357. 

Cf.   Sale. 

Sallewarp.     See  Salwarpe. 

Salleye,  John,  252. 

Salop,  county  of,  424,  524,  540. 

,  concealed  goods  in,  478. 

.coroners    of,    16,    129,    173, 

462,  497. 

,  eschoators  in.     See  Rorton, 

Edmund  de  ;  Hampton, 
John  de  ;  Lee,  Roger  atte  ; 
Perton,  Jolm  do  ;  Walshale, 
William. 

,  issues  of,  160. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  320. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

536. 

,  sheriff  of,   16,   99,   129,   160, 

173,  284,  314,  315,  497,  528. 

taxation  in,  206. 

Salopboure.     See  Shrewsbury. 
Salperton,  John,  266. 
Salseed.     See  Saulsoat. 
salt,   135,  374,  404. 
,  bullurios  of,  175,  383. 


Saltacre  in  Carnforth,  co.  Lancaster, 

in,  500. 
Saltcote.     Se<   Salcote. 
Salthouso,     Salthous,    co.    Norfolk, 

collectors  of  subsidy  in  port 

of,  30. 

fishers  of,  30. 

Saltkoc,  Nicholas,  parson  of  Newton 

St.  Loe,  306. 
Saltmerssh,    John,    of    Barton,    the 

elder,  445. 
salts,  silver,  engraved  with  the  Icing's 

arms,  165. 
Salvan,  Thomas,  warner,  526. 
Salwarpe,  Sallewarp,  co.  Worcester, 

383. 
Sahvick,   Salwik,    Salwyk    [in  Kirk- 
ham  1,  co.   Lancaster,   manor 

of,  197,   365. 
Salyng,  Richard,  549. 
Sambourne,  Robert,  chaplain,  185. 
Samerton.     See  Somerton. 
Samford.     See  Sampford. 
Samford,  Jolm.  256. 
Samoun,    Richard,    of    Shcllingford, 

61. 
Sampford,   Samford,   Saumford,   co. 

Essex,  203. 

,  manor  of,  116,  117,  223. 

Sampson,  Alan,  449. 

,  Jolm,  of  Plymouth,  436,  438, 

458. 

,  Richard,  253. 

Sancius,    Dominicus,    merchant    of 

Catalonia,  196. 
Sancta  Maria,  John  de,  convert,  147. 
Sancto  Albano,  Thomas  de,  281. 
,  serjeant    of     London, 

66. 
Sancto  Amando,  Amery  de,  knight, 

217. 
Sancto  Andrea,  Edmund  brother  of 

Jolm  do,  47fi. 
Sancto    Claro,    Seinclere,    Seintcler, 

Seyntcler,  John,  Johnde,  493. 
,  . knight,  101,  109,  112, 

201,  379. 
,  knitiht  of  tlio  shire  of 

Sussex,  536. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  491. 

Katharine  wife  of  Jolm  de, 

379,  4  93. 

Margaret  w  ife  of  Richard  do, 

36. 

Payn  de,  227. 

Richard  de,  36. 

Sibyl  wife  of  Robert  iU\  36. 

Sancto  Georgio,  Seint  Qeorge,  Bald- 
win de,  knight,  68,  66,  110, 
517. 


-  - 


GENERAL     INDIA. 


Kililunj  tic-    miit. 

b  of  the  shin  <>t' 

[vone,  Seinl    [ve,  Adam  de, 
titi/i  n  ot   I. on. Inn.   1  91,  366, 
Banoto  Johanne,  Baynl  Johan,  Seinl 
Jol  -  nt   John,   Edward, 

Edward  do,   knight,    -     38, 
227,  SSI,  870. 

(H     Si.  <<-j. 

Giles  de,  knight,  71 . 

lord  of  I'lumpton,  358, 

61 

Isabel,  190. 

Joan    wifo    of    Edward    de, 

227. 
Michael      do,      notary,      of 

Aquitaine,  114. 

Thomas-  do.  knight,  418. 

Sancto   Laudo.    Edmund   de,   cleik, 

306. 

Jolm  de.  307. 

Nicholas  de,  307. 

Sancto  Marciale,  Hugh  cardinal  de, 

[of  St.  Mary  in  Porticu],  130, 

489. 
Sancto  Martino.  Jol  in  de,  223. 

Laurence  de.  241. 

,  .  .  .  .,  convert,    147. 

knight,  236,  432,  518, 

528 

,  Ralph  de,  223. 

Sancto  Michaele,  William  de,  23. 
Sancto  Neoto,  John  de.  513,  531. 
Sancto  Paulo.     See  St.  Pol. 
Sancto  Paulo,  Seint  Pauil,  John  de, 

archhishop  of  Dublin,  560. 

,  Mary  de,  287. 

,  countess  of  Pembroke, 

7,  35,  503,  504. 
Sancto  Quintino,  Herbert  de,  307. 

,  John  de,  499. 

sanctuary,  43. 

Sandal,  Little  [co.  York],  parson  of. 

See  Coughtele,  Stephen. 
Sandburn   in   Stockton,     co.    York, 

164. 
Sandewic,     Sandewich.     See    Sand- 
wich. 
Sandford,  Thomas  de,  193. 
,  . .  . . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer    and   ter- 
miner in  Lancashire,    58. 
Sandhurst,  Sandherst,  Ivo,  Yvo  de, 

237,  324. 

,  Margay  wife  of  Ivo  de,  237. 

Sandwich,      Sandewic,      Sandewich, 

Sandwic,  co.  Kent,  7,  296. 
,  bailiffs  of,  21,  33,  129,  316, 

365,  505. 


Sandwich     oonL 

letto  i    cloa  dated  at,  560. 

lieutenant  of  the  warden  of 

the  Cinque   Torts  in.   .'{.'!. 

mayor  of,  21,  33,  129,  316, 

366,  61 

port  Of,   12,    19,  290. 

,  oollecton   of   customs 

end  Buhsidiea  in,  49,  .'565. 
hoopers  of  passage  in, 

(is.  183,  340,  376,  r,r,-2,  556. 
San  tian,  St.  Sebastian  [Spain, 

prow  Guipuzcoa],  iron  bought 

at.  310. 
Santon  [in  Appleby,  co.  Lincoln  ?], 

207. 

[co.  Norfolk],  335. 

Santon.   Jol  in  de,   citizen  of  York, 

43::. 
,  . . .  . ,  mayor    of    York    and 

guardian    of    the   peace   and 

justice  of  oyer  and  terminer 

there.  554. 

,  Thomas  de,  200,  263. 

Cf.  Ulf . 

Santonge.     See  Saintogne. 
Sapcoto,     Sapecote,     co.     Leicester, 

Basset  of,  36,  260,  361. 
Saperton.     See.  Sapperton. 
Sapiston,      Sapeston,     co.     Suffolk, 

manor  of,  393. 
Sapperton,  Saperton,  co.  Gloucester, 

manor  of,  488. 
Sapy,  John,  John  de,  knight,  529. 
,  . .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Worcester,  536. 
Saredon,  Sardon,  co.  Stafford,  209. 
Saresbirs.     See  Salisbury. 
Saretta.     See  Sarratt. 
Sark,  Serk,  island  of,  alien  priories  in, 

496. 

,  destruction  of  mills  in,  413. 

,  keeper    of.       See    Calveley, 

Hugh  de. 
,  receiver    and    apprower   of. 

See  Appleby,  Thomas  de. 

,  rolls  of  controllers  of,  413. 

Sarratt,  Saretta,  co.  Hertford,    550. 
S;irum,  New.    See  Salisbury. 
Saeset,  Arnald,  merchant  of  Florence, 

494. 
Sauecombe.     See  Sacomb. 
Saulseat,  Salseed  in  Scotland  [Wig- 

tonshire],  abbot   of,    32,    33, 

151. 
Saumford.     See  Sampford. 
Saumont,  Arnald  de,  esquire,  114. 
Saunderson,    Saundesson,    Saundre- 

son,  John,  376. 
.......  . . . .,  of  London,  231. 


GENERAL 

Saunderson — co  nt. 

,  William  de,  461. 

Saundre,  Jolin,  99. 

,  Robert,  ship's  yeoman,   59. 

,  William,  ship's  yeoman,  59. 

Saundres.  John,  241. 

Saundreson.     See  Saunderson. 

Sauny,  Jolm,  of  Finchley,  99,  100. 

Sauston.     See  Sawston. 

Sauston,  Thomas  de,  532. 

Savage,  Sauvage.  Arnald,  knight, 
107,  108,  109,  111,  178,  201, 
309. 

William,  of  Yorkshire,  363. 

Save,  John  de,  of  Normanby,  443. 

Cf.  Cave. 

Savemako,  Savernak  forest,  co. 
Wilts,  election  of  verderer  in, 
167. 

Saward,  William,  224. 

Cf.  Seward. 

Sawbridgeworth,  Sabrichesworth,  co. 
Hertford,  185,  366. 

Sawston,  Sauston,  co.  Cambridge, 
116,  530,  532. 

,  deeds  dated  at,  203,  532. 

,  manor  of,  116,  167,  532. 

Saxby,  Saxeby  [co.  Leicester],  361, 
364. 

Saxelby  [co.  Leicester],  parson  of. 
See  Folville,  Robert. 

Saxton,  John  de,  clerk,  517. 

,  . .  .  . ,  king's  clerk,  parson  of 

Skirbeck,  150. 

Say,  Nicholas,  of  Martoek,  329. 

,  William,  William  de,  510. 

, ,  knight,  327. 

Saymore,    Saymour.     See   Seymour. 

Sayne.     See  Seine. 

Saynt  Johan.     See  Sancto  Johanne. 

Sayour,  John,  jeweller,  of  London, 
333. 

Sayville,  Sayvylle,  Seyvylle,  John, 
Johnde,  318. 

,  .  .  .  .,  escheator  in  Cumber- 
land, 119-121,  177. 

,    ,    ,    ,     knight, 

166. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  in  Northumber- 
land, 121,  177,  180.   301. 

,  .....  ....  in  Westmore- 
land, 121,  144,  165,  177. 

,  .  .  .  .,  ....  in  Yorkshire,  55, 

121,  138,  144,  146,  148,  155, 
163,164.  174.  177,  180. 

,  . . . .,  guardian  of  tho  poace 

in  the  \\  <  ^t  I  tiding  of  York- 
shire, 554. 

,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

York,  428. 


INDEX.  729 

Scagglethorpo,  Rkakelthorp  [in  Moor 

.Alonkton].   co.    York,   fee  in, 

500. 
Scald  of  ord.     See  Seal  ford. 
Scaldurll,    Scaldewelle,    co.    North- 
ampton, fee  in,  190. 
Scale  Hall  [in  Lancaster]  ?  Scalegill, 

co.  Lancaster,  fee  in,  500. 
Scales,  Doscak\s.  Roger,  knight,  116, 

117,  360. 

, ,  lord  of  Newsells,  228. 

Scalford,  Scaldeford  [co.  Leicester], 

362,  364. 
Scampton,  co.  Lincoln,  fee  in,  162. 
Scania,  Scone  [Sweden,  provinces  of 

Malmo     and     Cliristianstad], 

402. 
Scarborough,       Scardebrugh       [co. 

York],    544. 

bailiffs  of ,  7,  8, 209. 

farm  of,  7,  8,  435. 

Scargile,    Skargill,    Warin    de,    the 

father,  knight,   512. 
,  . .  .  . ,  the  great  grandfather, 

knight,   513. 
WTiUiam    de,    of    Yorkshire, 

knight,  451. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  grandfather,   51 3. 

, the  son,  512,  513. 

Scarlo,  John  de,  240,  249. 

,  Walter,  of  Rutland,  534. 

Scarlet,   Sharlet,   John,   of   London, 

553. 

,  Stephen,  471,  483. 

,  . .  . . ,  keeper  of   the  manor 

of  Rotherhithe,  488. 
scarlet,  cloth  of,  104. 
Scarnyng,  Alan,  clerk,  496. 

Emma  wife  of  Alan,  4 '.15. 

Schaftebury.     See  Shaftesbury. 
Schafthowe.     See  Shaftoe. 
Schalyngford.     See  Shellingford. 
Schardelowe.     See  Shardelowe. 
Scheldon.     See  Sheldon. 
Schepesheved.     See  Shepesheved. 
Schepherdo,  John,  259. 
Schepisheved.     See  Sheopshed. 
Schernecote.     See  Shorncote. 
Schordich.     See  Shoreditch. 
Schorto.  Thomas,  of  Coat,  chaplain, 

80. 
William,  brother  of  Thomas, 

80. 

,  of  Coat.  87. 

Bohropham.     See  Shropham. 
Sohymplyngford.     See    Shymplyng- 

loi'd. 
Scogan.  John,  347. 
.......  Thomas,  .'!•">'.). 

Scolastnj,  Alexander,  212. 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Ithorp.     >'i  >    Boull 
S  <   Scan  in. 

Shordich. 
:.  Bootte,  John  le,  John,  495,  555. 

earl    of    I    i    tet    and 

Huntingdon, 

Met  ice.  palfreyman,  519. 

Robert,    i  ireoei  itor    of     Si . 

John  "i   Jerusalem  in   Boot- 
land,  330. 
Sootanei  •.     S<  •    Bootney. 
Scotiorth.  I  in  Lonesdale  [in 

Lanoaster],  OO.   Lancaster,  38, 

loo  in.  500. 

Sootherakelf.     Set   Bkutterskelfe. 

Scot  If,  John  de,  eacheator  in 

Cumberland,  I 

in    Northumber- 
land, 60,  3 

in     Westmore- 
land, e 

,  ....  in  Yorkshire,  60. 

Scotland,  171.203. 

,  adherents  of  men  of,  20. 

,  delivery    of    lands    in,     by 

chamberlain  of  Berwick,  416. 

,  king  of.     See  Robero. 

,  marches      of,      the      lung's 

enemies  in,   427. 
,     ....,    warden       of.       See 

Percy,  Henry  lord  de. 

,  merchants  of,  171,  263. 

money  of,  56,  202.  203. 

position  of  order  of  St.  John 

of  Jerusalem  in,  298,  330,  331. 
,  prohibition  of  visitation  of 

English  abbeys  by  abbots  of, 

32,  151. 

,  service  in.  558,  560. 

,  the  king's  enemies  of,  313. 

,  toll  on  merchandise  coming 

from,  to  England,  18. 

,  truce  with,  389. 

Scotney,    Scoteneyo    [in   I.ydd,    co. 

Kent],  207. 
Scotte.     See  Scot. 

Scottlesthorpe,  Shotelthorp  [in  Eden- 
ham,  co.  Lincoln],  361. 
Scottow,    Skothowe    [co.    Norfolk], 

555. 
Scoulton,  Skulton,  co.  Norfolk,  Bur- 

deleys  in,  1 57. 
Scrope.     See  Lescrope. 
Scropham.     See   Shropham. 
Sculthorp9,  Scolthorp  [co.  ^Norfolk], 

advowson  of,   199,  240. 

,  manor  of,  199,  240. 

Seacourt,  Seukeworth  [by  Wytham], 

co.  Berks,  355. 


Seagrave,    Begrave    [co.    Leicostar], 
lordship  <>t .  533. 
:r\ .  Segre  [co.  \\  ilts],  327. 
Seal,  le  Bele,  oo.  Kent,  advowson  of, 
]  85. 

manor  of,  186,  278. 

seal,  eockct.  50,  1  <'>7. 

for  .scaling  cloth,  105,  522. 

for   baking  recognisances  of 

debt  in  London,  deputy 
keeper  of  smaller  piece  of. 
See  Loget,  Helmyng. 

removal  of,  207. 

of  arms,  452,  453. 

,  ring  used  as,  287. 

,  tho  great,  delivery  of,  409, 

466. 

,      .  .  .  . ,     to    deputy 

keepers,  546. 

,  the    privy,    keeper   of.     See 

Carreu,   Nicholas  de. 

used  by  wife,  when  husband 

abroad,  or  by  widow,  452, 
453. 

See     Bristol.      exchequer, 

Ireland,  Pembroke,  writs, 
seamen,    arrest    of,    for    the    king's 

service,   302. 
Seaton  [co.  Rutland]  ?  Seyton,  479. 
Sebergham,  Seburghom,  co.  Cumber- 
land, 317. 
Sebroke,   Lawrence,   of  Hampshire, 

524. 
Seburgh,  Richard,  of  Colchester,  522. 
Saburgham.     See    Sebergham. 
Seburgham,  Henry  de,  317. 

,  John  de,  317. 

Sechefeld,   John,   vicar  of  Newark, 

182. 
Sedeburghebroke.  See       Brook 

Street. 
Sedile,   Thomas,   prior  of  Otterton, 

503. 
Sees,   Degory,   justice  in   co.    Pem- 
broke, 506. 
Sefton,  co.  Lancaster,  rector  of.    See 

Holme,  Jordan  de. 
Segovia,      Segobia     [Spain,      prov. 
Segovia],       dean      of.       See 
Gutier,  John. 
Segrave.     See  Seagrave. 
Segrave,  Geoffrey  de,  198,  202. 

,  Hugh   de,   guardian  ot   the 

peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  Coventry,  55,  474. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....      and      of      the 

statutes       of        Winchester, 
Northampton  and   Westmin- 
ster in  Coventry,  341. 
,  knight,  217. 


( ;  I  :\ERAL    INDEX. 


::;i 


Segrave — cont. 

,  Jolui,    John    dc,    162,    191, 

197. 
Margaret    Mureschall   coun- 

t.  as  of  Norfolk,  dame  de,  135, 

333,   348. 
Segre.     See  Seagry. 
Segyn,  John,  of  Hadstock,  204. 
Segynton,  Richard,  clerk,  318. 
Seinclere.     See  Sancto  Claro. 
Seine,  Sa'vne,  river  [France],  raoutli 

of,  264. 
Seintcler.     See  Sancto  Claro. 
Seintes,  Alvero,  529. 

,  John,  529. 

Seint  George.     See  Sancto  Goorgio. 
Seint  Ive.     See  Sancto  Ivone. 
Seint     Johan,     Seint     Jolin.         See 

Sancto  Johanne. 
Seint     Leger,      Seynleger,      Arnald, 

knight   of  the  slrire  of  Kent, 

5315. 

,  Ralph,  knight,  521. 

Seint  Malois.     Sec  St.  Malo. 
Seint  Pauil.     See  Sancto  Paulo. 
Seland.     See  Zceland. 
Selane,  William,  of  London,  460. 
Selby,  Henry  de,  of  Kingston  upon 

Hull,  387. 
,  Robert  de,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and  justice  in  Kingston 

upon  Hull,  465. 

,  .  .  .  .,  merchant,  494. 

Sele.     See  Seal. 

Seler.     See  Celer. 

Selmeston,  co.  Sussex,  420. 

,  Sherrington,  Siiaryngton  in, 

419. 
Selverlee,  John,  343. 
Sely,  Benedict,  of  Kent,  333. 

,  John,   442. 

Seman,  William,  281. 

Semer,   Peter,  of   Guildford,  coroner 

of  Surrey,  32. 
,  William  do,  of  Scarborough, 

544. 
Semour.     See  Seymour. 
Sempringham,     Sempyngham     [co. 
Lincoln],  prior  and  convent  of, 

390. 
Sene,  John  de,  3  <;.';. 
Senghennydd,     Sengh'     abovo     and 

below     Caugh'     [hundred     of 

Caerphilly,    co.    Glamorgan], 

306. 
Sennift,  Alan,  361. 
Bentlynge.     See  Shanklin. 
Sontrego,  Anthony,  363. 
Sepham  in  Shorehamand  Otford,  oo. 

Kent,  manor  of,  97,  98. 


Sepham,  Jolm,  of  Shoreham,  (.»7. 
545. 

Septvans,  Septvance,  Sepvans, 
Isabel  wife  of  William  de,  464. 

,  William  de,  William,  515. 

,  . . . .,  knight,  4ti3. 

, of   Kent.   463. 

,  ....  son  of  William  de,  464. 

Serby,  Thomas.  4  72. 

Sergeaunt,  Sergeant,  Serjaunt,  Ser- 
jeant, Serjeaunt,  John,  227, 
228. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Glouces- 
tershire, 131,  135,  147,  158, 
160,  163,  184. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Herefordshire, 

120,  135,  164. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  the  march  of 

Wales,  120,  131,  135. 

,  Richard,  200. 

,  William,  66. 

Sergeaux,  Serjeaux,  Richard,  guar- 
dian of  the  peace  and  justice 
of  oyer  and  terminer  in  Corn- 
wall,  361. 

,  steward  of  the  lands  of 

Edward  prince  of  Wales  in 
Cornwall  and  Devon,  407, 
421. 

Seriz.     See  Zierickzee. 

Serjaunt,  Serjeant,  Serjeaunt.  See 
Sergeaunt. 

Serjeaux.     See  Sergeaux. 

Serk.     See  Sark. 

Serland,  Thomas,  2,  44. 

Serle,  Richard,  99,  100. 

servants,  hiring  of,  262. 

,  statute      concerning,      389, 

390. 

Servoys,  Nicholas,  chaplain,  411. 

service,  military,  withdrawal  from, 
123. 

,  withdrawal    from,    93,    254, 

333,   335,   527. 

services : — 

carrying  goshawk  at  the  king's 

coronation,  51. 
doing  oil  ice  of  lardenar  at  the 

king's  coronation,  157. 
keeping     Abergavenny    castle, 
1 35. 

ono    sparrowhawk   and 

rendering  12c/.  of  the  sheriffs 
aid,  301. 

the   door   of    the   kind's 

pantry  on  his  coronation  day, 
34. 
nxoietj  of  one  fee  of  barony,  144. 
rendering  4*.  of  blanch  farm  to 
Norwich  castle,  371. 


N'EKAL     IMU.V 


1'IH'       I.  \\         \\  itll     II 

and    bui    ni'u    barded 
arrows  winged  with  peacock 

ml    cue   doe,    426. 
one  pair  of  gilded  spurs. 

ill. 
one    BOie    sparrow  hawk, 

168. 
one  spaiTowhawk  or  S 

872  574. 

20*.  a  year  to  the  ward 

of  Graven,  i.">7. 

2c.  a  year  to  the  common 

lino.  193.  * 

two  white  doves,  160. 

serving  cup  at   the  coronation 
with  tlio  citizens  of  London, 
167. 
suit  at  court  of  Rayleigh,  179. 
tasting  tho  king's  wine  when  lie 
abides  at  his  manor  of  Silver- 
stone,  142. 
two   suits   yearly   at   court   of 
Hatfield  PevereL  169. 

Seryn,  Richard,  of  London,  78. 

Seton,  Thomas  de,  justice  of  oyer 
and  terminer  of  Henry  duke 
of  Lancaster,  335. 

Seukeworth.     See  Seacourt. 

Sevenhampton,  Walter,  clerk,  201. 

Severnestoke,  Severn  Stoke.  See 
Stoke. 

Sewale,  Sewalle,  Adam,  510. 

,  Geoffrey,  551,  552. 

,  John,  83,204,265,  438. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of    Bedfordshire,    435. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Essex,  541. 

,  Thomas,   Thomas   de,    116, 

117,  460,   537-539. 

, escheator  in  Bedford- 
shire, 188,  189,  193,  306,  318, 
479. 

, in  Buckingham- 
shire, 8,  125,  148,  167,  192. 
408. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Cambridge- 
shire, 155,  157,  167,  188,  189, 
193,  301,  302,  321.  411,  418. 

,  . .  . . ,  ....  in  Huntingdon- 
shire. 188,  189. 

Seward,  William,  92. 

Cf.  Saward. 

Sewell  fin  Blakesley],  co.  Northamp- 
ton,  155. 

sewers,  maintenance  of,  403,  440. 

Sewy,  John,  chaplain,  175. 

Seymour,  Saymore,  Saymour,  Se- 
mour,  Seymor,  Seymore, 
John,  113,  207. 


Seymour,  John — oont. 

of  Lincolnshire,  336. 

of    London,    210. 

Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  303, 

191. 

,  coroner  of  Northamp- 
tonshire, 370. 
escheator     in     North- 
amptonshire, 4,  8,  20,  45,  46, 
51,  155,  292. 

son  of  Nicholas,  416, 

I  !il. 

,  Richard  son  of  Nicholas,  416, 

491. 

,  Thomas,  190. 

,  William,  190. 

Seynesbury.     See  Saintbury. 

Seynlegor.     See  Soint  Leger. 

Seyntcler.     See  Sancto  Claro. 

Seynt  Giles,  William  de,  of  Holborn, 
543. 

Seyntmanyfeu,  Joan  wife  of  Jolin  de, 
115. 

,  John  de,  115. 

,  Thomas  son  of  John  de,  115. 

Seynt  Maylorq'.     See  Majorca. 

Seys,  Jolin,  247. 

Seyton.     See  Seaton. 

Seyvylle.     See  Sayville. 

Shabbington,  Shobyndon,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, manor  of,  148,  149. 

Shabden  [in  Chipstead]  ?  Sabyndene, 
co.  Surrey,  218. 

Shackerstone,  Shacreston,  co.  Leices- 
ter, fee  in,  190,  191. 

Shadingfiold,  Shadenesfeud,  co.  Suf- 
folk, fee  in,  24,  25. 

Shaftesbury,  Schaftebury,  Shaftbirs 
[co.  Dorset],  392,  518. 

,  abbess  and  convent  of,  392, 

538. 

Shaftoe,  East,  Schafthowe,  Shafthow 
[in  HartburnJ,  co.  Northum- 
berland, 35. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chantry  at,  35. 

Shaftowe,  John  de,  35. 

,  chantry  for  family  of,  35. 

Shakel,  John,  esquire,  337,  338,  339. 

Shalboume,  Chaldebourne  [cos. 
Berks  and  Wilts],  258. 

Shaldetord,  Andrew  de,  of  London, 
skinner,  .'J46. 

Shaldeston.     See  Shalstone. 

Shalileet  ?  Shamelord,  Isle  of  Wight, 
port  of,  374. 

Shalstone,  Shaldeston  [co.  Buck- 
ingham], 549. 

Shalyngiorde,  John,  512. 

Shamelord.     See  Shalfleet. 

Shank,  Thomas,  542. 


GENERAL 

Shanklin,  Sentlynge  [Isle  of  Wight], 
manor  of.  99. 

Shardelowe.  Schardelowe,  Thomas, 
Tliomasde,  47,  357,  436,  445, 
461. 

of  Partford,  538. 

Sliareshill,  Sharshull,  co.  Stafford, 
209. 

Shareshull.  Sharshull.  Jolin,  209. 

,  William,  209. 

Sharlet.     See  Scarlet. 

Sharnecote.     See  Shorncote. 

Sharnton.     See  Slierrington. 

Sharp,  John,  78. 

,  . . .  . ,  parson    of     Somerby, 

361. 

,  William,  232. 

Sharpparwe,  William,   34. 

Sharpyng,  William,  citizen  of  Lon- 
don, 447. 

Sharshull.  See  Sliareshill,  Shares- 
hull. 

Sharsted  [in  Doddington],  co.  Kent, 
57. 

,  places  and  rooms  named  at, 

206. 

Sharyngton.     See    Sherrington. 

Shawbury,  Shawebury,  co.  Salop, 
294. 

,  manor  of,  294. 

,  Bessford,  Besseford  in,  294. 

Shayt,  Richard,  194. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  called       Sir      Wilham 

Recchemenover,    194. 

Sheen.     See  Richmond. 

sheep,  545. 

Sheepshed,  Schepisheved  [co.  Leices- 
ter], 77. 

Sheffield,  Reynold,  burgess  of  Read- 
ing in  parliament,  430. 

, ,  of  Berkshire,  522. 

Sheffield,  Sheffeld  [co.  York],  441. 

Shefford  [co.  Bedford],  210. 

Shefhull.     See  Sheffield. 

Sheford,  Peter,  524. 

Sheldesleywalevs.  See  Shelsley 
Walsh. 

Sheldon,  Scheldon  [co.  Warwick], 
deed  acknowledged  at,  265. 

,   .  .  .  .,   ....  dated    at,   255. 

, parson  of.     See  Kyng- 

ton,  Richard  de. 

Shulden  [in  Chippenham,  co. 

Wilts],  manor  of,  130. 

Sheldon,  Richard  de,  guardian  of  the 
peace  and  justice  of  oyer  and 
terminer  in  Coventry,  56. 

Bheldwich,  Sheiwych,  co.  Kent.  176. 

Sheffield,  Bhefhull  [in  Aston  Cantlow, 
co.  Warwick  |,fee  in,  191,  192. 


IXDEX.  733 

Shelford,  Great,  co.  Cambridge, 
manor  of,  188,  189. 

.Little,    co.    Cambridge,   ad- 

vowson  of,  343. 

, manor  of,  343. 

, i 'arson  of.     See  Barne- 

ton,  John  de. 

Shellegh.     See  Shelley. 

Shellere,  Robert,  of  Appleby,  472. 

Shelley,  Shellegh,  co.  Essex,  369. 

,  .  .  .  .,  fee  in.  23. 

,  co.  Suffolk,  439. 

Shellingford,  Schalyngford,  co. 
Berks.  61. 

Shellow  Bowells,  Shehve,  Shehve 
Jocelyn,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 
22. 

Shelsley  Walsh,  Sheldesleywaleys, 
co.  Worcester,  fee  in,  493. 

Shelton,  Joan  wife  of  Ralph  de,  312. 

,  John  de,  74. 

,  Ralph  de,  knight,  555. 

, ,  collector  of  sub- 
sidy in  Norfolk,  58,  59. 

, of  Norfolk,    113. 

,  .  .  .  .,  .  .  .  .,  the  elder,    312. 

Shehve.     See  Shellow  Bowells. 

Sheiwych.     See  Sheldwich. 

Shemyndon.     See  Shenington. 

Shengham,  John  do,  of  London,  288. 

Shenington,  Shemyndon,  Shenyndon, 
co.  Gloucester,  455,  461. 

Shcnle,  Thomas.  97. 

Shenley,  Shenlee,  co.  Hortford,  83. 

,  deed  dated  at,  83. 

manor  of,  198,202. 

Shenyndon.     See   Shenington. 

Shenyngfeld.     See  Shinfield. 

She]  ere.  William,  of  Maidstono,  342. 

Shepesheved,  Schepesheved,  Bald- 
win, 499. 

,  Thomas  de,  rector  of  Allex- 

ton,  75,  76. 

Shepey.  See  Sheppey. 

Shepeye,  John  de.  190,  191. 

William  de,  190,  191. 

Shepherd.     S<<  Schepheri 

Shepney  castle  alias  Risahindon 
Daundele     in     the     Islo    of 

She]  ey.  CO.   Kent.  .'!7I  . 

Sheppey,  Bhepey,  [ale  of.  [co.  Kent], 

371. 
Shepton  Beauchamp  [co.  Somerset], 

L09. 
Shepton.  Thomas,  farmer  of  chew  too 

Mendip  church  and  of  arch* 

d<  aconrj  of  Wells.  LOS. 
Sherborne,     Shirborne,    BhirbouTne, 

Shirburne,  co.  Dorset,  512. 
,  abbot  and  convent  of,  465. 


:\\ 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


B      rlHirno — cottf. 

OMtfe  • 

d<-»>«l  arknou  lodged  at,  160. 

deed  dated  at,  271  • 

-  irborne,  John  d<     :    ^ 

•  \  e,  John,  chaplain,  _ 

-  tifl  1 1  ut  t«.n.     Set  Button, 
rlond.     See  Bhirland, 

rmnii. Alexander, of  London,! 

rohn,  of   Fleet   Street,  274. 

of  London,  •*>•'<(». 

Walter,  of  1  [orndon,  210. 

Of.  Gherman. 

Bhermanbury,  Bhiremanbury  [eo. 
Buaaex],  parson  of.  Set 
l.i  che,  l  U 

Ewhurst,  [whursl  in,  127. 

Bherringhain,  Shirynghaxn  [oo.  Nor- 
folk], collectors  of  subsidy  in 
pari  of,  30. 

fi.-l  30. 

Sherrington,  Bhrington  [co.  Buck- 
ingham].  8. 

Sharyngton  [in  Selmeston], 

co.  Sussex,  419. 

Sharnton,  co.  Wilts,  manor 

of.   184. 

Sherston  Parva.  Sherston  Pynkeneye 
[co.  Wilts],  manor  of,  455. 

Shew,  John,  277. 

Shilling  Okeford.     See  Okeford. 

Shiltewode.  William  de,  parson  of 
C'hildrey.  260. 

Shimplinp,  Bhymplyng  [co.  Suffolk], 
356. 

Sliinfield.  Shenyngfeld  [co.  Berks], 
225. 

Shiplode,  John,  525. 

,  William,  of  Coventry,  525. 

shipmasters,  summons  of,  to  council, 
75. 

Shipmeadow,  Shipmedwe,  co.  Suf- 
folk,  234. 

,  manor  of,  234. 

Bhippester,  A  vice,  143 

ships,  10,  12,  13,  48,  119,  135,  171, 
196,  197,  202.  382-384,  402, 
404,  405,  412,  413,  434,  484, 
487,  492,  497,  498,  502,  552, 
553. 

.arrest    of,    for    the    king's 

service,  290,  302. 

,  barge    of    Bristol,    75. 

,  ....  of    Normandy,    384. 

,  boats,  126,  221. 

,  cogs,    505. 

,  crayers,  11,  374. 

,  ....  of  Normandy,    494. 

of  Bayonne,  292. 

of  Kampen,   12,  296. 


ships — oonf. 

Of   Portugal,  arrest  of.  3. 

of  Sluvs.  11.  12,  1-':.. 

of  Spain,  L68,  303. 

side  of,  enrolment  of,  245. 

tarits,  31,  :v.i,  42,  49.   120, 


L86,  329,  195,  506,  530 


.....>. 


."•II. 


of  Catalonia.    2  I  S.  231. 

of  Genoa,    57,  94,  488, 


of  Majorca    - 

of  Naples,  54, 

ships  named  : — 

cogge  Thomas.  1 1 . 

Christofore,  of  Hull.  387. 

La    Barge.    La    Vaige   de   Seint 
Ive.  312,  320. 

la  corps  Seint,  8. 

la  Griatofore,  of  Kampen,  12. 

la  Kdmond.  of  Harwich,  75. 

la  George.  494. 

Jn  Maudchjn,  of  Sluys,  125. 

la    Poulle,    of    Frampton    upon 
Severn,  491. 

la  Seint  Antoyn,  of  Portugal,  27. 

la  Seinte  Anne,  21. 

la  Seinte  Antoine,  of  Genoa,  310. 

la  Seint  Croice,  of  Portugal,  27. 

la  Seinte  Marie,  of  Olyver,  1 3. 

la  Seint  Mariecogge,  10. 

la  Seint  Marie,  21. 

,  of  Lulbao,  291. 

la  Trinite,  of  Plymouth,  82. 

Magdaleyn,  of  King's  Lynn,  196. 

Margarete,  of  Wareham,  59,  60, 
297. 

Marienknyght,  of  Sluys,  12. 

Maydach,  21. 

St.  Magdalene,  of  Dunkirk,  486. 

Sancta  Clara,  of  Majorca,  196. 

Seinte  Marie  cogg,  of  London, 
387. 

Seintemaryecogge,  245. 

Seint  Nicholas,  of  Sluys,  1 1 . 

Seint  Vincent,  of  Portugal,  27. 

Seynt  Antoyne    Seynt    Vyncent, 
40. 

the  George,  404. 

the  Thomas,  the  king's  barge, 
7. 
shipwreck,  125,  405. 
Shirborne.    See    Sherborne. 
Shirbourne.     See    Sherborne,     Shir- 
burn. 
Sliirburn,  Shirboume,  co.  Oxford,  84. 

,  manor  of,  84. 

Shirburne.     See    Sherborne. 
Shiremanbury.     See  Shermanbury. 
Shirland,  Sherlond,  co.  Derby,  Grey 
of,  191,  192. 


HEXERAL    INDEX. 


735 


Shirley,  co.  Derby,  Yeaveley,  Yiuleye 

in,  317. 
Shirlond,  Reynold  de,  clerk,  348. 
Shiryngham.     See   Sherringham. 
Shobury.     See    Shoebury. 
Shobyndon.     See  Shabbington. 
Shocere.  Thomas,  of  Yorkshire,  248. 

Cf.  Shottere. 

Shoebury,  South,  Little  Shobury  [co. 

Essex],   3. 
Sholeway,  Richard,  clerk,  531. 
Sholler.     See  Sholver. 
Sholland,  Sholondhall  in  Nacton  [co. 

Suffolkl,  manor  of,  321,  544. 
Sholver,    Sholler    [in    Oldham],    co. 

Lancaster,  328. 
Shone,  John,  merchant,  13. 
Shorbred,  John,  539. 
Shordich,  Scordissh,  Shordych,  Sor- 

diche,    John   de,    John,    250, 

256,  443. 
,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Middlesex.  429. 

,  Nicholas  de,  236. 

Shoreditch,  Shordich.     See  London, 

places  named. 
Shoreham,   Shorham,  co.   Kent,   97, 

545. 

,  .  .  .  .,  deed  dated  at,  545. 

,  . .  . . ,  Palestre  in,  545. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  Sepham  in,  97,  98. 

co.   Sussex,  manor  of,   409, 

458. 

,  .  .  .  .,  shipwreck  off.  405. 

Shorncote,  Schernecote,  Sharnecote, 

co.  Wilts,  advowson  of,  227. 
,  co.    Gloucester    [rectius    co. 

Wilts],  fee  in,  307,  308. 
Shortflatt,  Shortflat  [in  Bolam],  co. 

Northumberland,  398. 
Shortrigge,  Adam  de,  262. 
Shotelthorp.     See  Scottlesthorpe. 
Shotesbroke,  Gilbert,  217,  349.  425. 
Shottere,  John,  vendor  of  underwood 

in  Melchet  forest,  141. 

Cf.  Shocere. 

Shrewsbury,     Salopbouro,     Shroues- 

bury,  co.  Salop,  50,  171,  410, 

430,    484. 
,  burgesses  of   in  parliament, 

430. 
,  Dogpole,  Doggepol    (street) 

in,  410. 
Shrington.     See  Sherrington. 
Shrop,     Stephen     de,    merchant    of 

Newcastle  upon  Tyne,  381. 
Shropham,    Schropham,    Bcropham, 

John,  chaplain,  335,  340,  521. 
Shrouesbury.     See  Shrewsbury. 
Shulden.     Sec  Sheldon. 


Shusulle,  Peter,  99. 
Shymplyng.     See  Shimpling. 
Shymplyngford,       Schymplvngford, 

John  de.  351,  355,  356. 
Margery  daughter  of  Ralph 

do.  351,  :!:>.").  :;.-r;. 
Shynner,  John.  265. 
Sibille,  Sibile,  Sybile,  John,  360. 

Walter,  117,  431,  460,  470. 

Siddenliam.     See  Sydenham. 
Siddington,  Sodvngton,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, fee  in,  307.  308. 
Siena,  Italy,  merchants  of,  422. 
Sifrewast.     See  Cifrewast. 
Sileby  [co.  Leicester].  519. 
Silhampstede.     See     Sulhampstead. 
Silian,  Maynorsullen  [co.  Cardigan], 

406,  407. 
Silkman,  Thomas,  490. 
Silk  WTilloughby.     See  Willoughby. 
silver,  mines  of.  in  Ireland,  312,  355. 
,  prohibition  of  eloignment  of, 

202. 

vessels  of,  113,  165,  556. 

Silverhill,  William,  of  Over,  247. 
Silverstone.  Si  1  vest  on,  Sylveston,  co. 

Northampton,   142. 
,  service  of  tasting  the  king's 

wine  when  he  abides  at,  142. 
Simon,  Edward  son  of,  22. 
Simond,     Symound,     Clement,     the 

younger,  215. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  337. 

See  Fitz  Simond. 

Simeon.     See   Symeon. 

Sirebeux.     Stephen,    charioteer,     of 

Edward  II,  63. 
Sired,  William,  510. 
Sireston,  Thomas  de,  clerk,  441. 

,  of  Lincolnshire,  527. 

Skakelthorp.     See  Scagglethorpe. 
Skaldcwelle.  Peter,  2(i(i. 
Skargill.     See  Searple. 
Skelbrooke,     Skelbroke     [in     South 

Kirby],  co.  York,  452,  454. 
Skelton.  Skylton,  Clement  do,  26. 
Joan   (de   Orreton)  wife  of 

Clement    de,    20. 

,  Thomas  de,  532. 

,  William  de,  armourer,  516. 

of    Cumberland,    431, 

12. 
Skerton,  John  de,  of  Lancaster,  363. 
Skeyton,  co.  Norfolk,  fee  in,  24.  25. 
Skillyng,   Skyllyng,   John,  of  Wilt- 
shire. 212. 

son  of  Michael,  363. 

Michael,  88,  230.  258,  362, 

303.  367,  458,  469,  620, 
,  of  Wiltshire,  238. 


- 


GENERAL    IXDKV 


kilhTti:.  Michael— covt. 

the    king's    attorney, 

1  IB,   177,  186,  231,  319,  320 

Walter,  parson  of  Orcbiont, 

19. 

Skippelond,  John,  510. 

I:. ■-•.   BIO. 

Bkirbeok,  oo.  Lincoln,  advowBon  of. 
150. 

manor  of,  l  BO. 

pareon  of.     s     Saxton,  John 

do. 

SkolkyiiLr.  John,  BIO. 

skotlmw  e.     S     Seottow. 

Bkulthoi  |  •     Uexander  de,  BOB. 

Skulton.     6      5  niton. 

Skutt(  r.-k-li'c.  Elootherskelf  [in  Rud- 
by  in  Cleveland],  eo.  York, 
e  in.  BOO. 

Skyllyi,  -  ■    Skillyng. 

Skylton.     8»  Skelton. 

skynner,  Thomas,  burgees  of  Bridg- 
north in  parliament,  430. 

Of     Shrew  shiny,     bur- 

-    ' '-w Bbury  in  parlia- 
ment, 430. 
William     le,     William,     of 

Maidstone.  218. 

of  Scotforth,  296. 

Skypwvth,    William   de,    justice   of 

(forth  and  South  Wales,  406. 
Slade,  William,  264. 
Slaugham,     Blagham,     co.     Sussex, 

manor  of,  309. 
Sleaford,  Sleford,  eo.  Lincoln,  64. 
Sleddale,  Long,  Sledalo  [in  Kendal], 

co.  Westmoreland,  fee  in,  500. 
Sleford.     See  Sleaford. 
Sleford,  John  de,  clerk,  98,  204. 
Slene,  William  de,  500. 
,  .  .  . . ,  parson    of    Winwick, 

171. 
Sluys,    Lescluse,    Flanders,  21,  125, 

245,  254,  310. 

,  merchants  of,  12. 

ships  of,  11,  12,  125. 

Smalcombe,  William,  227. 
Smarden,  Smerdenne,  co.  Kent,  87. 
Smelt,  Richard,  citizen  of  London, 

235. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  fishmonger,  of  London, 

280. 

,  . .  . .,  of  Ware,  254. 

Cf.  Smolt. 

Smerdenne.     See  Smarden. 
Smert,  Peter,  of  London,  333. 
Smewes,  John,  442. 
Smith,  Smyth,  Edith,  215. 

,  John,  chaplain,  336. 

,  . . .  .,  of  Littlo  Dean,  194. 


Smith.  John,  of  Little  Dean — cont. 

called       Sir 

Kill, aid    Miaavised.    194. 

of  Mordford,  8,  4. 

of  Wenden,  366. 

Peter,    oi     i.<  ckhampetead, 

525. 

Philip,  265. 

Richard,  of  Radhury,  534. 

, of    Wysall,    chaplain, 

436. 

,  Richor,  of  Bonnington,  345. 

,  Rogor,  510. 

,  William,  215,  265. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Barton  on  Humber, 

451. 

,  . .  . .,  of    Mitcheldean,    194, 

456. 

,  .  .  . . ,  .  .  .  . ,  called   Sir   John 

Geffre  and  Admirall,  194. 

Smithson,   Bartholomew,   510. 

Smolt,  John,  the  elder,  134. 

Cf.  Smelt. 

Smyth.     See  Smith. 

Snarkstone,   Snarkeston,   co.  Leices- 
ter, fee  in,  190,  191. 

Snave,  Snaves  [co.  Kent],  rector  of. 
See  Garton,  Robert  de. 
♦  Snayth,  Thomas  de,  431. 

Snelle,  Snel,  Alexander,  265. 

,  Hugh,  burgess  of  Stafford  in 

parliament,  430. 

,  John,  219. 

,  Nicholas,    burgess   of    Staf- 
ford in  parliament,  430. 

Snclston,  William,  472. 

Snetesham,  William  de,  345. 

Snodcsbury.     See  Snodsbury. 

Snodhill,  Snodeshulle  [in  Dorstone], 
co.  Hereford,  castle  of,  530. 

,  deed  dated  at,  530. 

Snodsbury,  Snodesbury  [co.  Worces- 
ter], 335. 

Snoring,  Snoryng,  Little,  co.  Norfolk, 
manor  of,  230. 

Snow,  Isolda  wife  of  William,  143. 

Snyppeston,     Nicholas,     merchant, 
13. 

Snyterton,  Simon,  195. 

Sodyngton.     See  Siddington. 

Soke,  John,  89. 

Sokerel,  John,  265. 

,  Maud,  265. 

Solers,  Joan  daughter  of  John,  29. 

,  Ralph,  coroner,  373. 

Soles,  John  de,  164. 

Somborne,  Robert,  112. 

Somerby,  co.  Leicester,   149. 

[by  Grantham,  co.  Lincoln], 

parson  of.     See  Sharp,  John. 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


737 


Somercotes,      South,      Southsomer- 

cotes,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of, 

229. 
Someresham.  John  de,  83. 
Somerford,     Little,     Mauduyt     [co. 

Wilts],  parson  of.     See  Coyne, 

Kobert. 
Somerleyton,    Somerleton,    co.    Suf- 
folk, 24  7. 
Somersby,     Robert    de,     rector    of 

Leverton,  342,  345. 
Somerset,  county  of,  62,  72,  73,  78, 

110,  229,  233,  278,  329,  301, 

362,  446,  520. 

,  coroners  of,  5,  497. 

,  escheators  in.      See  Cheyne, 

Edmund  ;    Cheyno,  William  ; 

Cifrewast,      Walter  ;       Hale, 

John  atte  ;     James,    Robert  ; 

More,  Adam  atte. 
/guardians   of   the  peace   in, 

90. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

536. 
,  sheriff   of,    1,    5,    105,    254, 

389,  497,  542. 

,  taxation  in,  1,  206. 

Somerton    [in  Booth  by  Graff  oe,  co. 

Lincoln],  castle  of,  constable 

of.  See        Brantyngham, 
•    William  de. 
,  Samerton,    co.    Oxford,    ad- 

vowson  of,    155. 
, parson   of.     See   Mer- 

ston,  William  de. 
Somerton,   Geoffrey  de,  of  Norfolk, 

525. 

,  John,  281. 

,  Nicholas,        Nicholas       de, 

escheator  in   Berkshire,    306, 

308,  408,  421,  479. 
in    Hampshire, 

302,  377,  378,  414,  482. 
in    Oxfordshire, 

306,  320,  371,  408,  437,  479, 

493. 
in      Wiltshire, 

302,  304,  322,  372,  384,  416, 

479,  501. 
Somery,  John,  83. 
Sompnour,    John,    of    Manningtree, 

360. 
Sompting,    Sountynge,    co.    Sue 

manor  of.    127. 
Sonde.  John,  :*47. 
Sonderland,  co.  Norfolk,  fee  in,  24, 

2."). 
Sondfi loo'l.  Agnes  de,  267. 
Sonnyn^hull,       Sonynghulle.        s<>- 
Sunninghill. 

Wt.   11824. 


Sonynghulle,  Sonnynghull,  Joan 
daughter  of  John,  of  Berk- 
shire. 222. 

,  John.  John  de.  84,  222. 

,  ....  brother  of  Joan,  222. 

Soor.     See  Sor. 

Soost'.  Thomas,  of  Abbotsley,  233. 

Sooz.  Ralph,  7!>. 

Sopley,  co.  Hants,  Avon,  Aveno  in, 
284. 

Sor,  Soor,  Alexander,  327,  388. 

Sordiche.     See  Shordich. 

Soterle,    Soterlee.     See    Sotterley. 

Sotheworth.  Matthew  de,   69. 

Sotterley,  Soterle.  Soterlee  [co.  Suf- 
folk"], 354-356. 

Souche.     See  Zouche. 

Soulbury,  co.  Buckingham,  Lovet  of 
Liscombe  in.     See  Lovet. 

Soulseat.     See  Saulseat. 

Sountynge.     See  Sompting. 

Sourdevale.  Agnes  daughter  of  John 
de,  155,  156. 

,  Agnes  wife  of  John  de,  1 56. 

,  Amandus,  155,  156. 

,  John  son  of  Amandus,  156. 

Soureby.     See  Sowerby. 

Soutere,  Edmund,  510. 

,  John,  of  Swineshead,  iden- 
tity of,  312. 

Southall  in  Woolwich,  co.  Kent,  107. 

,  manor  of,  201. 

Southam  [co.  Warwick],  461. 

Southam.  John,  of  London,  mer- 
chant, 13. 

Thomas  de,  165. 

Southampton,  Suthampton,  Suth- 
amton  [co.  Hants],  535,  548. 

,  bailiffs    of,    102,    125,    137, 

168,  312,  320,  365,  416,  506, 
529,  .",:;:.,  548. 

,  burgess  of,  416. 

friars  minors  of,  137. 

mayor  of,  1<>2,  125,  137,  168, 

312,  320,  ••!<>."),    iKi,  606,  535. 

,  merchants  of,  8. 

,  port  of.  8,  12,  207,  312,  320, 

405,  484,  486,  629,  ",:?.",. 

collectors   of    customs 

and      subsidies    in,     49,     61, 
17<>.  366. 

St.    Denys,    St.    Dennis  in, 

priory  of,  297. 

the  king's  courl  of,  548. 

Southampton,  Suthampton,  county 
oi.  7:i.  229,  347,  368,  468,  642. 

escheator  in.      Set    Froylle, 

John  :       I  [arnham,     Oliver  ; 
Somerton,  Nichol 

justices  of  the  tores!  in.  3<»7. 

<  ii  47 


-  * 


GENERAL     [NDEX. 


ithampton,  oounty  of — oemi. 
knights  <>t'  the  shire  of,  429, 

-r-Mi.n-  ii 

sheriff  of,   15,  c.f,.   112,   L86 

8 :     (00,  363,  409,   ill.  406, 
18 
Bouthanyngfeld.      Set   Sanningfield. 
Southbeniflet.     v      Benfleet. 
Southbyrlyngham.     Set  Burlingham. 
Bouthcote.     Set  CSroourt. 
Bouthe.     S      Bouthoe. 
Bouthelmhan,     Set   Ehnhan. 
Boutherton,  \N  i lli.un  de,  610. 
B   uthewerk.     Set    Bouthwark 
Bouthfleet,  Bouthflete,  co.  Kent,  deed 

acknowledged  at,  633. 
parson    of.  i  lourne, 

Koh.Tt. 

Southlevi  rton.     Set  Leverton. 
Bouthmymmee,     Set   IVfimmfl. 
Sunt!, or    Bouthe,  Boutho,  co.  Hunt- 
ingdon, 230. 

,  manor  of,  42.'5. 

Boughton,   Bowton  in.  230. 

Bouthotryngton     See  otterington. 
Southous,  Walter,  63,  67,  364. 

of     London,     525, 
626. 
Southsomercotes.     See  Somercotes. 
Bouthwark,  Bouthewerk,  Southwerk, 
Suthwerk,    co.    Surrey,    188, 
189,  273,  326. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

1 30. 

.»....,  deeds  dated  at,  236,  245. 

high  street  of,  545. 

,  St.  Mary's  priory,  canon  of. 

See  Kaveneston,  Nicholas  de. 

,  .  .  .  .,  prior  and  convent  of, 

545. 

St.  Mary  Magdalene,  parish 

of,  545. 

,  St.  Olave,  parish  of,  545. 

,  St.  Thomas'  hospital,  325. 

, master  of,  325. 

Southwick,  Suthwyk,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, deed  acknowledged  in 
chancellor's  lodging  at,  246. 

Southwokyndon.     See  Ockendon. 

Soutkelleseye.     See  Kelsey. 

Soutpederton.     See   Petherton. 

Sowerby,  Castle,  Soureby,  co.  Cum- 
berland, fanner  of  manor  of, 
159. 

Sowere,  Thomas,  221. 

Soyler,  Francis  de,  merchant  of 
Catalonia,  291. 

Spaigne,  Spaygne,  Spayne,  Nicholas 
de,  240. 


S|>n:  i u .  Nicholas  de — cont. 

clerk.    77. 

parson     of     Althorpo, 

249. 
\\  illiam,    William   do,    183, 

361,  3r>4. 

justice,  '-".mi. 

to  prosorvo  the 

peace  in  Holland  in  Lincoln- 
si  ire,  22. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Boston,  418. 

of  Medbourne,  257. 

Spain.  2d2.  373,  484,  535. 

,  currency  of.  338. 

men  of,  303. 

,  merchants  of,  168,  291. 

,  seamen  of.   168. 

,  sbips  of,  168,  303. 

,  the  king's  enemies  of,  416. 

,  truce  with,  168. 

,  wine  of,  11. 

Spain's  Hall,  Spayneshal]  in  Willin- 

gale  Spain  [co.  Essex],  200. 

,  manor  of,  103,  238,  459. 

Spalding,    Spaldyng    [co.    Lincoln], 

254,  391. 
Spaldington,   Spaldyngton  [in  Bub- 

with],  co.  York,  422. 
Spaldyng.     See  Spalding. 
Spaldyng,  John,  citizen  of  London, 
*  546. 

.William,  218. 

Spaldyngton.     See    Spaldington. 
Spare,  Bernard  de  la,  lord  of  Lebard, 

of  Aquitaine.  esquire,  444. 

Cf.  Lesparre. 

Sparehaukeseye.     See   Boycroft. 
Sparke,  Henry,  453,  455,  464,  514, 

51  5. 

.Hugh,  334. 

,  Richard,  chaplain,  45. 

,  William,  armourer,  516. 

Sparowe,  Sparwe,  John,  552. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Surrey,  235. 

Sparre,  La.     &ee  Lesparre. 
Sparsholt,  Spersholt  [co.  Berks],  425. 
,  Fawler,    Fauelere,    Fauelore 

in,  221,  425,  426. 
,  Kingston   Lisle,    Kyngeston 

in,  425,  426. 
Sparwe.     See  Sparowe. 
Spaxton,    co.    Somerset,    parson   of. 

See  Crosse,  Robert. 

,  Postridge  in,  159. 

Spaygne,  Spayne.     See  Spaigne. 
Spayneshall.     See  Spain's  Hall. 
Speen,  co.  Berks,   Benham  Valence 

in,  188,  189. 
Speldhurst,  co.   Kent,   107,  201. 
Spelly,  Ellis,  117,  118. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


739 


Spelly,  Ellis — cont. 

of  Bristol,  520. 

Spencer.       Dcspencer,       Dispencer, 

Spenser.   Henry  le,   bishop  of 

Norwich,    23,     93,     354-356, 

413,  545. 

,  Juliana,   538. 

See  Despenser. 

Spersholt.     See  Sparsholt. 
Speton,  Thomas  de,  chaplain,  173. 
Spice,   Alice  wife  of   Clement,    200, 

201,  238,  459. 
.Clement,    70,    78,    198,   200, 

244,  265,  267,  459. 
Edmund  brother    of    John, 

238. 

,  John,   103. 

,  ....  son  of  Clement,  238. 

,  Richard    brother    of    John, 

238. 

,  William,  200. 

,  ....  son  of  Clement,   238. 

Spicer,  John,  of  Bedford,  547. 

,  Nicholas,  531. 

,  Richard,    Richard    le,    117, 

118,  471. 

,  by    Billingsgate,    210. 

spices,  291. 

spies  among  friars  at  Oxford,  44. 

,  arrest  of  suspected,  139. 

Spigurnell,      Spigurnel,      Spygurnel, 

Spygurnell,  Edmund,  24. 

,  Henry,  24. 

,  Joan  wife  of  James,  107. 

, of  William,  328. 

,  Thomas  de,  43. 

,  William,  328. 

Spillewynd,  Spylwynd,  John,  baker, 

346. 
Walter,   vicar  of   Langham, 

346. 
Spircok,  Edmund,  85,  258. 
,  John,     verderer     of     Chute 

forest,  409. 
Spire,  Rohert,  236. 
Spondon,  Henry,  274. 
Spore,  William,  225. 
Sporier,  Hugh,  of  Leicester,  200. 
Sporle,  co.  Norfolk,  manor  of,  427. 
s] toriang  rights,  541. 
sports  of  clerks  of  chancery,  211. 
Bpridlyngton,  William  de,  auditor  of 

Edward  prince  of  Wales,  394. 

bishop    of    St.    Asaph. 

394. 
Springfield,    Bpryngfeld,   co.   Essex, 

Cuton,   Kyncton  in,  22. 
Sprot,  Hugh,  oi  London,  556. 

Waller,  of  rsleworth,  215. 

,  William,  chaplain,  93. 


Sprotbrough,  Sprotburgh  [co.  York], 

69. 
Spryngfeld.     See  Springfield. 

Spygurnel.  Spvgurnell.  See  Spigur- 
nell. 

Spylwynd.     See  Spillewynd. 

Spynk,  William,  of  Sprotbrough,  59. 

SqualJay  in  West  Haddlesey  [co. 
York],  59. 

Squier,  Squyer,  John.  553. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  London,  534. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of     Saintbury,     clerk, 

340. 

Stable,  Adam.  259. 

, alderman   of   London, 

259. 

,  .  .  . . ,  mayor  of,  and  eschea- 

tor  in  London,  408,  512. 

Nicholas  de  la,  243. 

stable  for  the  king's  deer,  154. 

Stachesden,  Henry,  80. 

,  William,  fishmonger,  of  Lon- 
don, 469. 

Stafford  [co.  Stafford],  burgesses  of, 
in  parliament,  430.  537. 

,  deeds  dated  at.  430,  431. 

,  prison  at,  548. 

Stafford,  county  of,  432,  526. 

,  concealed  goods  in,  478. 

,  coroners  of,  16. 

,  escheator  in.  See  Hamp- 
ton, John  de ;  Perton,  John 
de ;   Walshale.  Thomas. 

,  issues  of,  1 68. 

,  justices  of  assize  in,  209. 

,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

536. 

,  sheriff  of,  16,  92,  93, 168,  548. 

,  taxation  in,  206. 

Stafford.  Hugh  de,  earl  of  Stafford, 
380,  395. 

Humphrey,  knight,  362,  367, 

520. 

,  Maud     (Hastang)     wife     of 

Ralph  de,  121,  122. 

,  Nicholas  de,  knight,  526. 

, knight  of  the  shire  of 

Stafford.  536. 

Ralph  de.  121.  122. 

,   earl  of  Stafford,  437. 

Richard  de,  guardian  of  the 

peace  and   justice  of  oyer  and 

terminer  in  Coventry,  55. 
,  Robert  de,   Hobort,  knight, 

430,  .">34. 
knight  of  the  shire  of 

Warwick.    128,   536. 

Thomas,  Thomas  de,  •_'»:. 

the  kiiu       i  i  •  ant  at 

arms,  L68. 


GENERAL     [NDEX. 


B     inburn,      Staynburne,      Stayne- 

burne,  oo.  Cumberland,  •">.*{. 
Bi  undale  Hill  in   Kirk  l.<  \  ington  ! 

Btandenrigge,   oo.    York,    foe 

in.    500. 
Staindrop,  Stayndrop,  oo.  Durham, 
ille     of    Raby    in.      Sat 

Neville. 
parson    of.     >'■  i       I  lighten, 

W  llliam   de. 
81    inton,   Btaynton  pn   Daore],  co. 

Cumberland,  26. 
Btaynton    l>v    Tickhill.    co. 

York  [W.R.],  77. 

manor  of,  77. 

l>v   Langworth,  oo.    Lincoln, 

\.  wrbeD,  Neubell  in,  102. 
Stake    '•■  offrey,  L90,  191. 
Stalham,  Thomaa  de,  471 . 

Uage,  391. 
Stalhngborough,    Btalyngburgh,    co. 

Lincoln,  mi  UOT  of,    1  80. 
Stabrorth,   Nicholas,   344. 
Btalyngburgh.     Set  Stallingborough. 
Btambourne,  co.  Essex,  fees  in,  23. 
if. ml.  Stanford    Btaunford  [cos. 

Lincoln    and    Northampton], 

169,   390,   472. 
Austin     friars,     prior     and 

brethren  of,  390. 
Btamfordham,  co.  Northumberland, 

Bitchfield,  Bechefeld  in,  507. 
Btampage  of  tin.  407,  408.  421. 
Btampe,  Thomas,  183. 
Stamyndone,  William,  goldsmith  of 

London,  465. 
□bote,  Thomas,  221. 
Btandenrigge.     See  Staindale  Hill. 
Standlake,     Stanlake,     co.     Oxford, 

manor  of,  148. 
Standon,    co.   Hertford.  Puckeridge, 

Pokerich  in.  439.  534. 
Wadeemill,    Wadeemyll   in, 

439. 
Stanefeld,  Thomas,  217. 
Btanee,  Richard,  214, 216 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Heston,  215. 

,  Thomas,  Tliomas  de,  70,  292. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    the     king's     esquire. 

289. 
Staneweye.     See  Stanway. 
Stanford  in  the  Vale,  Stanford,  co. 

Berks,  advowson  of,  308. 

, manor  of,  30G. 

on  Teme,  Stanford,  co.  Wor- 

r    Xoverton,  Overton  in, 

383. 

See  Stamford. 

Stanford.  Stannford,  Gilbert,  Gilbert 
de,  knight,  23,  244. 


Stanford     oorU. 

lolm.   71 . 

Stanhope,  John,  187. 

ot  I!.' i  ii] 'ton,  escheat  or 

in  I  >i  ii  >\  shire,  54,  65. 

, in  Notting- 
hamshire, 64,  56,  56,  134. 

Richard  de,  74. 

Stanlake.     St  t  Standlako. 

Btanle.     Set  Stanley. 

Stanley.  King's,  Kyn.L'estanlogh,  CO. 
(  Gloucester,  manor  of,  184. 

Stanley.  Btanle,  Staynley,  Roger, 
tailor,  of  London,  4  <>•_'. 

Thomas  de.  parson  of  Tree- 
ton.  238,  242.  243,  245,  357. 

William  de,  461. 

Stanlowe,  John  de,  coroner  of  Cum* 
berland,  477. 

stannaries.  407.  421,  601. 

liberties  of  workers  in,  380, 

381. 

Stanshawe,  John,  228. 

Stanstead  Abbots,  Stanstede  Abbots, 
co.  Hertford,  204. 

Mountlichet,       Mounfichet, 

Stansted     Mountfichet,     354, 
360. 

Stanton,  Feu,  Fennystanton,  co. 
Huntingdon,    533. 

Lacy,     co.     Salop,     Hop  ton 

Cangeford,  Hopton  in,  430. 

,  Long,  Staunton,  co.  Cam- 
bridge, 446. 

on    Arrow,     Staunton,    co. 

Hereford,  manor  of,  430. 

St.  John,  Staunton  St.  John, 

Seint     Johan,     co.      Oxford, 
270. 

,  manor  of,  293. 

,  Stoney,  Staunton  by  Sap- 
cote  [co.  Leicester],  parson  of. 
See  Grcnhille,  John  de. 

Stanway,  Staneweye,  co.  Essex,  116, 
238,  459. 

Stanwick,  Stanwyk,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, 203. 

Stanwix,  co.  Cumberland,  Crinkle- 
dike.  Cryngildyk  and  Hough- 
ton, Hoton  in,  19. 

Stanwyg,  William,  parson  of  Al- 
thorpe,  249. 

Stanwyk.     See   Stanwick. 
Stapelford.     See  Stapleford. 
Stapelton.     See  Stapleton. 
Stapelton,       Stapilton,       Stepilton, 
Stepulton,     Stipelton,     Alice 
wife  of  Brian  de,  529. 

,  Brian  de,   knight,   451-453, 

462,  529, 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


711 


Stapclton — -oont. 

Elizabeth      (de     Metham) 

sister  of  Thomas,  38,  59. 
Joan  wife  of  Robert  de,  321. 

of     Thomas     de, 

59. 
Nicholas,      grandfather     of 

Thomas  de,  38. 

,  Petor  de,  clerk.  376. 

Robert   de,    190,    191,    192, 

321. 

,  ....  son  of  Philip  do,   558. 

,  Tliomas  de,  38.  59. 

.William.    William    do,    con- 
stable    of     Lochmaben     and 

Annandale,   1 5. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Cumberland,  428. 
Stapenhill,   co.    Derby,  Newhall  in, 

317. 
Stapilton.     See  Stapclton,  Stapleton. 
Staple,  John,  195,  227. 
staple,  mayor  of,  seal  of,  326. 

,  ordinance  relating  to,  412. 

,  restriction  of,  to  Calais,  442. 

See   Boston,   Calais,   Cork, 

Drogheda,  Dublin,   Limerick, 

Queensborough,      Waterford, 

Westminster. 
Stapleford,     Stapelford,     Stepelford, 

co.  Hertford,   349,  455. 

,  .  .  .  .,  advowson  of.  349. 

,  .  .  .  .,  Patchendon,    Pachen- 

dene  in,  453. 

,  co.  Leicester,  364. 

,  .  .  .  .,  deeds  dated  at,     361, 

362. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  361. 

,  co.  Wilts,  manor  of.  184. 

Stapleton,  Stapilton  [in  Bansoll],  co. 

Leicester,  fees  in,    190,    191, 

192. 
,  Stapclton  [in  Martock],  co. 

Somerset,   manor  of,   36. 
Stapolyn,   William,   368. 
Stapulford.     See  Stapleford. 
Starlyngeshel.     See  Nightingale  Hall. 
Starston.     See  Chadstone. 
Stathum,    Ralph   de,    knight   of   tho 

shire  of  I  >erby,  128. 
statutes  : — 

concerning     replevin     of     har- 

bourers     and     abettors,     248, 

263. 

workmen  and   servants, 

389,  390. 
of  Acton  Burnell,  207. 

of  mortmain,  1«),  47.  294,  483. 
of  Northampton,  guardians  of, 
341. 


statutes — oont. 

of    Westminster,   guardians  of, 

341. 
of  Winchester,  guardians  of,  341. 
regulating  markets,  .'{v_\  .'{'.Hi. 
salo  of  cloth,    104,   205, 

368.  522. 
statutes    merchant,   SS,   Hit,   91,   113, 

195,  235,  276,  277,  325,  436, 

454,   457.  463,  .".17,  550. 
Staughton,   Great,  co.   Huntingdon, 

Lymage,  Lymyng  in,  188. 
Staundon.     See  Stondon. 
Staundon,     William,     merchant     of 

London,  553. 
Staunford.     <See  Stamford,  Stanford. 
Staunton.     See  Stanton. 
Staunton,   Elizabeth   (do  Hampster- 

ley)  daughter  of  William  son 

of  Geoffrey  de,  193. 

,  Johnde,  23. 

,  Ralph   son  of   Geoffrey  do, 

knight,  457. 
.Thomas    de,    98,    137,    475, 

525. 

William  de,  191,  192. 

Staveley,  Stavelegh  [co.  Derby],  98, 

225. 
,  .  .  .  .,  lord   of.     Sec   Frecho- 

ville,  Anker  de. 
,  Stavlay     [in     Kendal],     co. 

W  estmoreland,  fee  in,  499. 
Staverton,  co.  Northampton,  315. 
Stavlay.     See  Staveley. 
Staynburne.     Sec  Stainburn. 
Stayndrop.     See  Staindrop. 
Stayneburne.     Sec  Stainburne. 
Stayngrefo,  John,  Jolin  de,  knight, 

399. 
Staynley.     See  Stanley. 
Staynton.     See   Stainton 
Stebbyng,  Edmund  de,  clerk,  36. 
Stebenheth,    Stebenhithe,    Stebyng- 

hethe,      Stebynhethe.        Set 

Stepney. 
Steeple  Barton.     See  Barton. 
Bumpstead.       See     Bump- 
stead. 
Steeton,  Btyveton  [in  Kildwick],  co. 

York,  fee  in,  500. 
Stele,  John,  212. 
,   .....master    of    the    cogge 

Tfutmas,   1 1 . 

Ralph,  clerk,  240. 

William.  240. 

Stenyngge.     See  Steyning. 
Stepelbumpstede.     Sec    IJmnpstend. 
Stepelford.     See  Stapleford. 
Stephen,  Nicholas  son  of,  510. 

Cf.    St<  self  I. 


.  *  - 


GENERAL     INDEX. 


Btepilton.     s      Stapelton. 

Stobenheth,    Stebenhithe, 

ij  nghcthe,     s  t « ■  l .  \  nhethe, 
Middlesex,  108,  200,  201, 
I,  •_':{(;. 

deeds  dated  .it .  236. 

Old   Ford,    Eldeford,   Olde- 

ford  in.  L08,     "I 
Btepulton  Stapelton. 

lvn-.  Geoffrej .  382. 
oe,  Robert,  102,  228. 
Steoeley.     >'••  Styuecle. 
Stevene,  John,  of  Aldenham,  342. 

Stephi  ii. 

Stevcnton.    Stvvvnton.    co.    Berks, 

131. 
I  jhI.  \  j  ngton       [in 

CI  co.  Surrey],  274. 

Steyning,    Stonyngge,    oo.    Sussex, 

128. 
Stiffkey.     Btykevey,     co.     Norfolk, 

manor  of,  606,  ."><i7. 
Stile.  II.  nry  atte,  i     I        eshall,  •".l'1-'. 

John  atte,  216. 

StilHngfleet,  Btillyngflete,  co.  York, 

manor  of,  148. 
St i lord,  Hugh,  264,  266. 

Robert,  204,  266. 

St  i lour,  Henry,  264. 
Stipelton.     See  Stapelton. 
Stirkeland.     See  Strickland. 
Stisted  [co.  Essex],  265,  459. 
highway  from  Coggeshall  to, 

30. 
Stobbes,  John  de,  451. 
Stock,  Herwardstoke,  co.  Essex,  22. 
Stocking  Pelham.     See  Pelham. 
Stocklinch     Magdalen,      St  ok<  lynch 

[co.  Somerset],  110. 
Stockton,    Stoketon    [co.    Norfolk], 

parson      of.     See      Welham, 

Hervey  de. 
,  Stokton  [co.  Wilts],  parson 

of.     See  Warner,  John. 
on  the  Forest,  Stokton,  co. 

York,  Sandbum  and   Qwitkar 

in.  164. 
Stockwith,   Stokkyth   [co.   Lincoln], 

552. 
Stock  Wood,    Stokwode   [in  Keyn- 

sham],  co.   Somerset,  fee  in, 

307. 
Btodagh.     See  Stodday 
Stode,  John  de,  of  Barton  on  Hum- 

ber,  329. 
Stodday,  Stodagh  [in  Lancaster],  co. 

Lancaster,  fee  in,  500. 
Stodehagh,  Dionysia  wife  of  Robert 

de,  560. 
,  Robert  de,  560. 


Stodeley,  Btodlegh,  Walter.  Walter 
de,  248,  261,  267. 

William,  433. 

Stodej  e.  John,  John  de,  622. 

,  citizen  of  London,  89, 

114. 

, sheriff  of  London,  516. 

William  de,  206. 

Btodfold,  William  de,  parson  of  Dean, 

i  .-.o. 

Btodlegh.     See  Stodeley. 

Stoke,  co.  K< nt .  108. 

, deeds   dated   at,    273, 

332,  466,  633. 
,     Malemaynes,     Mal- 

maynes,  Malmaynes  '  maner  ' 

in,  271,  273,  332,  456,  533. 
[co.    Surrey],    le    Naldre    in, 

73. 
Abbas,  co.   Gloucestre,  Lar- 

stock,  Larkestoke  in,  255. 
Brueme,    Stokebrewere,    co. 

Northampton,  fee  in,  190- 
by   Na viand,    Stokenaillond, 

co    Suffolk,  205. 

,  deed  dated  at,  205. 

Dry,    Driestoke    [cos.    Rut- 
land and  Leicester],  68. 
,    Holyoaks,      Haliok, 

Halyok  in,  75,  76. 
,  East,    co.    Dorset,    Holme, 

Holne  in,  19,  20. 
Holy     Cross,     co.     Norfolk, 

Blackford,  Blacworth  in,  234. 
,  Rodney,   Stoke  Giffard,  co. 

Somerset,  fee  in,  307. 
,  Severn,     Sevemestoke,     co. 

Worcester,  fee  in,  307,  308. 
Wake,    Stoke    [co.    Dorset], 

233. 
Stoke,  Henry,  of  Stoke,  468. 

,  John,  John  de,  143. 

, ,  clerk,  139. 

,  Ralph  de,  Ralph,  195,  432, 

435. 
,  Richard  de,  parson  of  Bird- 
brook,  426. 

,  Thomas  de,  Thomas,  226._ 

,  .  . . . ,  coroner  of  Dorsetshire, 

3. 
Stokebrewere.     See  Stoke. 
Stokelynch.     See  Stocklinch. 
Stokenaillond.     See  Stoke. 
Stokenbury,  Stokyngbury,  John  de, 

John,  100,  266. 
,  . . .  . ,  fishmonger,  of  London, 

259. 
Stokes,  Thomas,  369. 
Stokesby,    co.    Norfolk,    Herringby, 

Haryngby  in,  24,  25. 


<:  KXERAL    INDEX. 


743 


Stokesby,    William    de.    citizen    of 

London.  447. 
Stoket.  William.  266. 

dyer,  of  London,  261. 

of  Chelsea,  270. 

Stoketon.     See   Stockton. 
Stokkenepelliam.     See  Pelham. 
Stokkyth.     See  Stockwith. 
Stoklond,  John,  271. 
Stokton.     See  Stockton. 
Stokwode.     See  Stock  Wood. 
Stokyngbury.    See  Stokenbui  v. 
Stondon     Massey,     Staundon,     co. 

Essox,  fee  in,  24. 
Stone,  John  del,  of  Heckmondwike, 

107. 
Stonegrave,    co.    York,    West  Ness, 

Westnesse  in.  399. 
stones  of  Normandy,  349. 
Stoney  Stanton.     See  Stanton. 
Stonore,  Edmund,  514. 
Stormy.     See  Sturmy. 
Stortford,    Bishop's,    Storteford  [co. 

Hertford],  32,  354,  360. 

deeds  dated  at,  360. 

,  Richard  vicar  of,  360. 

Story,  Stury,  Joan,  capper,  523. 

,  Richard,  347,  417. 

knight,  181,  257,  266, 

437. 
Stotton.     See  Stuston. 
Stouford,  John  de,  250. 
Stoughton,  Richard,  73. 
Stourmouth,  Sturmouth  [co.  Kent], 

98. 
Stourmy.     See  Sturmy. 
Stourton,  Roger,  362,  367. 
Stow,    Isabel   wife    of    John   de,    of 

Newcastle   upon  Tvne,     107, 

110. 

,  John  de,  277. 

Stowo  Mareys      See  Stow  Maries. 
Stowille,  Eleanor  (de  Merton)  wife  of 

Matthew  de,  292. 

,  Matthew  de.  knight,  292. 

Stow    Maries,     Stowo    Mareys,    co. 

Essex,  fee  in,  22. 
Strabolgi,  David,  David  de,  earl  of 

At  hoi.  20,  322,  606. 
Elizabeth  daughter  of  David, 

322,  606. 
wife    of    David,     322, 

506. 
l'liilippa  (de  Percv)  daugh- 
ter of  David,  322,  506. 
Stracy,  John,  267. 
Stradsett,     Stradesot,    co.    Norfolk, 

516. 
Strango.     See  Lostran 
Strangman,  William,  12:5. 


Stratfield  Mortimer,  co.  Berks,  Oak- 
Geld,  Wokef  eld  in,  212. 

Stratford,  co.  I  204, 

, abbot  of,  23. 

[co.  Essex  or  co.  Middlesex], 

108,  201,  235,  236. 

Water,  Stratford  [co.  Buck- 
ingham], 115. 
Strathale.     See  Strethall. 
Stratton  Hall.  Btretton  [by  Leving- 

ton.  co.  Suffolk],  321. 
,  Over,    Great    Stratton    [co. 

Somerset],  manor  of,  229. 
St.  Michael,  Long  Stratton, 

St.  Michael  Long  Stratton.  co. 

Norfolk,  parson  of.     See  Dyn, 

John. 

See   Stretton. 

Stratton,  Andrew  de,  260. 

,  John,  corsour,  198,  199. 

,  Walter  de,  355. 

, the  elder,  351. 

Cf.  Stretton. 

Straunge.     See  Lestrange. 
Straunge  Betton.     See  Betton. 
Stravena,  Julian.  363. 
Strete,  Thomas.  Thomas  atto,  514. 
, ,  clerk,    453,    455,    464, 

514. 

,  William,  198,  332. 

, farmer  of  the  manor  of 

Rotherfield,  488. 
,  .....  the    king's    butler,    8, 

109,  112,  158,  201,  202,  297. 
,  .  .  .  .,  the     king's     serjeant, 

158. 
Strethall,  Strathale,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 

'2-2. 
Stretton,  Stratton  [co.  Rutland],  fee 

in,  191,   192. 

See   Stratton. 

Stretton.  Robert,  bishop  of  Coventry 

and  Lichfield.  200. 

Cf.  Stratton. 

Strickland  Kettle.  Strikelandkel]  [in 

Kendal],    co.    Westmoreland, 

144. 
,  Little.  Little  Stirkeland   [in 

Morland],  co.   Westmoreland, 

53. 

manor  of,   53. 

Strocii.     See  Strozzi. 

Strociis.     N<<   Strozzis. 

Strode,    Ralph   de,    Ralph,   common 

serjeant  of   London,  26. 

of  London,  94. 

Strokelady,  William,  612. 

Strood.  Strode  [co.  Kent],  st.  Mary's 

hospital,  master  of.      S(  <    I 

ynges,  William. 


:n 


GENERAL     INDIA 


-.  Sir  Stroz/.is. 

Strother,  Alan  del,  bailifl  of  1 1 j « - 
lilnrtN  at  Tindale,  322. 

fahn  del,  coroner  of  North- 
umberland, 7. 

Thomas  son  of   Henry  del. 

1-  ■ 

Stroweston,  William,  of  London, 

Stio.'/i.      Strocii.      Stn»s.      St  r,  .--,■-.. 

fellowship     of,     Booiety     of 
merohantfl  of,  l'">2. 

in  London.  440. 

of  Florence,  JT.'i.  474. 

Now.  society  of   merohantfl 

of,  £ 

Old,  fellowship  of,  172. 

society   of  merohantfl 

of,  of  Florence,  252. 
Btrozzis,    Btrociis,   8ta  Charles 

do,  society  of  merchants  of, 

of  Florence   17l>.  4  74. 

Nicholas  Russelli  de,  173. 

,  .  .  .  .,  merchant  of  Florence 

in  London.  173. 

, ,  of  Florence,  472,  474. 

,  l'azzinus     de,      society     of 

merchants    of,    of    Florence, 

472,  474. 
Thomas  Marchi  de,  of  Flor- 
ence, 473,  474. 
Strughuyll.     See  Chepstow. 
Stryvelyn,  John,  329. 
Stubhampton  [in  Tarrant  Gunville, 

co.  Dorset  J,  460. 
Studham,    co.    Bedford,    Barwythe, 

Bareworth  in,  328. 
Sturgis,  Richard,  70. 
Sturguyll.     See  Chepstow. 
Sturminster  Marshall,    Sturmunstre 

Mareschall,  co.  Dorset,  111. 
Sturmouth.     See  Stourmouth. 
Sturmunstre.     See  Sturminster. 
Sturmy,  Esturmy,  Stormy,  Stourmy, 

Henry,    236,    260,    354,    425, 

538. 

,  John,  500. 

,  Robert,     guardian     of     the 

peace  and  justice  in  Kingston 

upon  Hull,  465. 
Stury.     See  Story. 
Stuston,  Stotton,  co.  Suffolk,  fee  in, 

24,  25. 
Stygayn,  Stygan,  Stygeyn,  Bartholo- 
mew, of  Essex,  225. 
,  John,  messenger  of  the  king's 

chamber,  257. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  king's  Serjeant,  398- 

Stykeford,  John  de,  clerk,  395. 
Styntescombe,    William,    parson    of 

Taynton,  481. 


Stykevey.     8*  Stiffkey. 
Stynte,  John,  220. 

Styueole,    Stoueley,    John    de,    230, 
■  :  539. 

Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  280. 

, justice  to  preser\ <■  the 

peace  in  I  [untingaonahire,  84. 
knight  OI  the  shiro  of 

Huntingdon,  429. 

the  lather.  537-539. 

, ,the  son.  537-530. 

Styventon,  Hugh,  falconer,  446. 
Btyveton.     See  Steeton. 
Styvynton.     See  Stoventon. 
Styward,  John,  of  London,  draper, 

281. 
Buardeby,  Robert,  182. 

Cf.    Sywardeby. 

Buarry,   Richard,  coroner  of  Essex, 

311. 
Sudbury,  Budbery,  Budebury,  Syd- 

1  hi iv,  John  brother  of  Simon 

de,  205,  225. 
,  Roger  de,  Roger,  64,  78,  84, 

253. 
,  Simon  de,  Simon,  archbishop 

of  Canterbury,  140,  233,  282, 

285,  324,  347,  403,  417,  466, 

469,  485,  499. 
,  . .  .  . ,  bishop  of  London,  65, 

140,  205,  225,  403,  417. 
Sudeley,    Sudleye    [co.    Gloucester], 

558. 
Suffolk,    county    of,    63,    71,    427, 

530. 

,  coroners  of,  32. 

earl       of.       See     Ufford, 

Robert  de ;    Ufford,    William 

do. 
,  escheator  in.        See  Hethe, 

John  ;         Rokwode,       John ; 

Waterden,  Richard  ;  Weston, 

John  de. 

,  extortions  in,  526. 

,  justices  in,  526. 

,  ....   to  preserve  the   peace 

in,  113. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

537. 
,  sheriff  of,   32,   93,   96,   439, 

442. 

,  taxation  in,  205. 

sugar,  291. 

suicide,  135. 

Sulby,    Suleby    [co.    Northampton], 

John  abbot  of,  551. 
Sulgrave,  co.  Northampton,  88. 
Sulgrave,  Hugh,  336. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  of   Northamptonshire, 

92. 


(MINERAL     INDEX. 


71.-, 


Sulhampstead     Banister,     Silhamp- 
Btede,  Silhampstede  Banastre 

[co.  Berks].  212. 
parson    of.  I  let  ford, 

John  de. 
SuDiull,  Thomas.  441. 
Sunninghill,    Sonnynghull.     Sonyng- 

hullo.   co.   Berks,   dwd  dated 

at,   2 22. 

,  manor  of,  84. 

Surray,  John  de,  48. 

Cf.  Surre\  s. 

Surrey,  county  of,  73,  251,  259,  359. 

,  coroners  of,  32,  l4o. 

,  earl     of.     See     Fitz     Alan, 

Richard  ;   Warenna,  John  de. 
,  escheators  in.       See  Heryng, 

Nicholas;     Illeston,    Thomas 

de. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

536. 
,  sheriff  of,   31,   32,   70,    137, 

140,  218,  501. 
Surreys,  John,  of  Lancashire,  554. 

Cf.   Surray. 

Surrugien,       Sururgien,       Nicholas, 

otherwise  Leche,    543,    544. 
Sussex,  county  of,  80,  101,  204,  362. 

,  coroners  of,  412. 

,  escheator  in.       See  Illeston, 

Thomas  de. 
,  guardians  of   the  peace  in, 

238. 
,  keeper  of  the  king's  bastide 

in.     See  Longe,  John. 
,  knights  of  the  shire  of,  429, 

536. 
,  mayors,    bailiffs,    customers 

and  keepers  of  ports  in  coast 

of,  404. 

,  sheriff  of,  31,  235,  329,  492. 

Suthampton,       Suthamton.  See 

Southampton. 
Suthbirlyngham.     See    Burlingham. 
Suthcote,  John,  citizen  of  London, 

468. 
Suthend,  Richard  atte,  328. 
Suthtatton.     See  Tatton. 
Suthwell,  Ralph,  tailor,  346. 
Suthwerk.     See  Southwark. 
Suthwyk.     See  Southwick. 
Sutton,  co.  Essex,  L79. 

[co.     Il<  n  ford],     manor    of, 

50. 
[co.  Norfolk],  manor  of,  187, 

188. 
at    Bone,   Sutton,    co.    Kont, 

manor  of,  304. 
Haw  ley,  Halghuleo    in, 

357,  435. 


Sutton— cont. 

Cheney,  Sutton,   co.    I.>  i< 

ter,  fee  in,  190,  L91. 
Courtenay,  co.  Berks,  manor 

of,  52,  131. 
in  the  Marsh,  by  Markeby  [co. 

Lincoln},  73. 

Maddoek.    CO.     Salop,  Broek- 

ton,  Brokton  in,  4s:!. 

on  the  Forest,  in  Gait  res,  co. 

York,  manor  of,    144. 
Valence,  co.  Kent,  advowson 

of,  192,   193. 
Sutton   Pool,    river    of     Sutton    [by 

Plymouth],  co.  Devon,  421. 
Sutton.  Alan  de,  36. 

,  Gilbert  de,  271,  432. 

,  John,  John  de,  34,  325,  397, 

543. 

,  knight,  131,  240,  453. 

, , ,  of  Essex,  82,  83. 

, ,  of  Hants,    81. 

,  ....  son  of  John  de,  of  Lin- 
coln,  98,   102,   103. 

, ,  the   father.    102,    103. 

Nicholas  de,  parson  of  Great 

Wigborough,  255. 

,  Peter  de,  130. 

,  Richard  de,  Richard,  janitor 

of  York  castle,  45. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  knight,  453. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  master  of  St.  Bartholo- 
mew's   hospital,     Smithfiold, 

183,  279. 

, of  London,  463. 

,  Robert  de,  clerk,  151,  152. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  cordwainer,  of  London, 

222. 
,  Roland  son  of  John  de,  of 

Averham.   396. 
,  Thomas    de.    Thomas,    226, 

348,  361. 
,   .  .  .  .,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  in  the  Easl  Eliding 

of  Yorkshire.   4 (>.">.   555. 
Swaby,  Thomas,  clerk,  .'fit. 
Swaffham,  Bwafham[co.  Cambridge], 

460. 
Prior,   Swafham  Priour,  co. 

Cambridge,  108,  201. 
advowson  of  chapel  of, 

108,  201. 

manor  of,  108,  201. 

Swafham,     Bwotham,     Roberl     de, 

parson  of  \\  esl   Barling,  246, 

247. 
Thomas,   Thomas   <le,   261, 

326,   326. 

William  de,  Of  Burn  ell,  208. 

Swale,  Willi. un  do,  526. 


GENER  \l. 


8w  al<  i  Id.     St  <    Swallow  Bi  Id. 

Jlow,  Swalowe,  oo.  Lincoln,  fee  in, 
162. 
Bwallowfield,  Swalefeld  [oo.   Berks], 

Swalov.  Swallow. 

nbourne,  John,  235,  '_'.'t7. 

:iu'.  \\  illiam.  600. 

Bwanesccmpe.     Set    Swanscomb 
B      inland.         Swanlond,         William. 

William  de,   106,   1 16,  342. 
of  Middlesex,  343,  34  I 

M>n      (>l       Simon.       of 

Middlesex,  1<»;>. 
Bwannington,  Bwynyngton  [co.  N'ur- 

folk],  parson  of.     Set  Prykeys, 

Thomas. 
Bwanscombe,      Bwanescompe      [co. 

Kent],  434,  436. 

-  anion,  John,  burgess  of  Bedford 

in  parliament .  -430. 
Swathorp.   William  de.    526. 

-  epstone,    Swepeston,    Swcpi.ston, 

co.    Leicester,    feo    in,    190, 

I'll. 

Newton  in.  190,  191. 

Bwerdes.     See   Bwords. 
Swerdeston,    Nicholas,    of    Norfolk, 

346. 
Swetbon,  John,  clerk.  101. 
Swetemon,  John,  of  Penkridge,  chap- 
lain. 485. 
Bwilland,     Swynlond,     co.     Suffolk, 

manor  of,  305. 
Bwiryngton,    Swyllyngton,   Swylyng- 

ton,  Margan  t  wife  of  Robert 

de,  427. 

,  Robert  de,  233. 

, ,  knight,    86. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the  uncle,  knight,  250, 

323,  327,  367,  427,  457,  460, 

513,  547,  549. 
Swindon,   co.   Wilts,  Nethercote  in, 

372. 
swine,  damage  to  park  by,  128. 

,  theft  of,  221. 

Swineshead,  Swyneshed,  co,  Lincoln, 

312. 
Swinford,    Swynford,    co.    Leicester, 

fee  in,  162. 
Swinton.  Swynton,  co.  York,  manor 

of,  538. 
Swords,   Swerdes  [co.  Dublin],   491, 

560. 
prebendary  of.     See  Neville, 

Thomas. 
Swotham.     See  Swafham. 
Swyfte,  John,  272. 
Swyllyngton,       Swylyngton.        See 

Swilyngton. 


IN  MIX. 

Bwyn,  Swyne  in  Flanders,  port  of, 

201. 
Bwynbourne,    Bwynhmne.     I'nhert, 

Robert  de,  knight,  :t<n.  464. 
knight    of  (lie  .shire  of 

I  16. 

Bwyndon.     Set    Bydenham. 
Swyne.    s<<  Bwyn. 
Swyncsliod.      Sti     Sw  ineshead. 
Swyneshed,    Bwynesheved,   Richard 

de,  527. 
Robert,   336. 

Swynford.      Set    Swinton  I. 

Bwynle,  Bwynley,  John  de,  clerk, 
archdeacon  of  Huntingdon, 
223,   225,  279. 

,  .  .  .  .,  brother  of  William  de, 

223,  224. 
,  William      de,      the      king's 

helmet  maker  in  the  Tower  of 

London,  223,  224. 
Swynlond.     Sec  Bwilland. 
Sw  \  norton,  Robert  do,  knight,  430. 
Swynton.     See  Swinton. 
Swynyngton.      See  Swannington. 
Sybile.     See  Sibillc. 
Sycherugge.     See  Ditteridge. 
Sydbury.     See  Sudbury. 
Sydenhale,  Henry  de,  coroner  of  co. 

Warwick,  7. 
Sydenham  [near  Bridgwater]  ?  Swyn- 

don,  co.  Somerset,  159. 
Sydenham,  Siddenham,  Richard,  61, 

243. 
Syffrewas.     See  Cifrewast. 
Sylke,  Edmund,  471. 
Sylveston.     See  Silverstone. 
Symeon,    Simeon,    Robert,    knight, 

349,  357,  528,  539. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  of     Oxfordshire, 

459. 
,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Oxford,  429. 
Symkoc,  Nicholas,  350. 
Symme,  John,  of  Heston,  215. 

,  William,  280. 

Cf.  Zymme. 

Symondeson,  John,  154. 

Symound.     See  Simond. 

Synan,  Raymund,  389. 

Syndale,  the  Syndane  [in  Ospringe], 

co.  Kent,  206. 
Sywardeby,  John,  knight,  360. 
Cf.  Suardeby. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


747 


Tabbot.     See  Talbot. 

Taberd,     Peter     atte,     of     London, 

skinner,  342. 
Tadeham.     See   Todlmm. 
Taillour.  Tavlour,  Gilbert,  of  Bristol, 

480,  482. 

,  Ralph,  of  Puckeridge,  534. 

,  Richard,  of  Puckeridge,  439. 

,  Roger,  of  Hitchin,  242. 

,  Thomas,  205,  252,  265. 

,  Walter,    218. 

.William,    William    le,    243, 

510. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Holborn,  543. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Swords,  491 . 

Talafan,    Talvan    [in    Ystrad-Owen, 

co.  Glamorgan],   306. 

,  manor  of,   306. 

Talbot,    Tabbot,    Anabilla    wife    of 

Richard,    500. 
,  Elizabeth  mother  of  Gilbert 

de,  112. 

,  Gilbert,  Gilbert  de,  462,  487. 

, ,  knight,  258,   451-454. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  lord    of    Eccles- 

wall,  112. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of  Archenfield,  88, 

91. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     son     of     Elizabeth 

Comyn,  503. 

,  John,  379,468,  516. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of     Richard's    Castle, 

481. 

, , ,  knight,  493. 

,  Katherine  wife  of  John,  493, 

516. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  assignment    of    dower 

to,  379. 
,  Margaret    wife    of    Gilbert, 

451-454,  458,  459. 

Peter  father  of  Adam,  516. 

,  Ricliard.    500. 

,  Robert,  199,   360. 

William,  458,  459. 

Talbot's  Hall,  Talboteahall  in   Fin- 

cham,  co.  Norfolk,  manor  of, 

510. 
tallies,    387. 
tallow,  441.  442. 
Talskiddy,  Talskedy  fin  St.  Columb 

Major],   co.   Cornwall,   manor 

of,  409. 
Talvan.     See  Talafan. 
Tamo.     See  Thame. 


Tamworth,  Henry,  '.»4. 

,  Nicholas,  knight,  349. 

Cf.  Thameworth. 

Tanfeld,  William  de,  parson  of  Work- 
ington, 519. 

Tanfield,  West,  Tanfeld  fco.  York], 
parson  of.  See  Carethorp, 
John  de. 

Tanncre,  John,  539. 

Tansley,  Tannesley  fin  Crich,  co. 
Derby],  Giffardelond,  Giffard- 
land  in.  68,  72. 

Tany,  William,  prior  of  the  hospital 
of  St.  John  of  Jerusalem  in 
Ireland,  chancellor  of  Ireland, 
486,  489. 

Tardebigg  ?  Totebache,  co.  Worces- 
ter, 455,  461. 

Bordesley  abbey  in.  283. 

Tarente,  Alexander  de,  460. 

Tarrant  Gunville,  Tarente  Gundovilo 
fco.  Dorset],  deed  dated  at, 
460. 

,  Stubhampton  in,  460. 

Tartays,  Gerald  de,  lord  of  Poyanne, 
knight,   444. 

Tate,  Richard,  470. 

Taterishalo,  Roger  de,  472. 

Tathwell,  Tathewell  fco.  Lincoln], 
73,  395. 

Tattingstone,  Tatyngeston,  Tatyng- 
ston  fco.  Suffolk],  advowson 
of,  549. 

,  manor  of,  321,  542,  549. 

Tatton,  Northtatton  and  Suthtatton 
[in  Portisham,  co.  Dorset], 
227. 

Tatyna.  Thomas,  of  Swineshead, 
312. 

Tatyngeston,  Tatyngston.  See  Tat- 
t  in^stone. 

Tauk,  William,  53,  57,  74,  178,  207, 
309. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chief     baron     of     the 

exchequer,  249. 

Taunt,  Nicholas,  453. 

Taunton  [co.  Somerset],  1. 

Tauverner.     See  Taverner. 

Ta  verba  in,  Martin  de,  2."i4,  515. 

Taverner,  Tauverner,  Edward,  bur- 
gess of  Gloucester  in  parlia- 
ment, 430. 

,  of  (Gloucester,  194. 

,  Gilbert,   241. 

Henry,  burgess  of  Guildford 

in  parliament .  430. 

,  John,  431. 

,  Nicholas  son  of  John,  548. 

Tavistock,  Tavestoke  [CO.  Devon], 
abbot  of,  497. 


748 


GENERAL     tNDEX. 


\. Hi. 'U  :  — 
ali  !22. 

brocage,  5  I 

customs,  '.'.  l".  11.  12,  II.  i". 
II.  19,  51,  .".I.  .".7.  119,  IC7. 
l7o.  251,  291,  :*7I.  378,  :tT«». 
381,  382,  383,  105,  412,  439. 
180,  508,  552. 

great,  1 86. 

of  (ML  in  the  pound,  291 , 

(>t    3d.    in    the    pound, 

4U'_>. 

petty,   136. 

upon  wool.  379. 

<\  asion  of,  by  the  rich.  137. 
exemption  from,  12<>. 
fifteenth,  126,  131. 
Bubaidiee,  9,   1".  11.  12,  14,  40, 
41.  49,  51,  54,  57,   L19,   167, 
170,  251,  291,  371,  378,  379, 
381.  3s:J,  402,  405,  412,  552. 

clerical.  38,  105,  348. 

,    arrest    of    recu- 
sants, 37. 

fish  taken  at  sea  exempt 

from,  of  Gd.  in  the  pound,  30. 

of  Gd.  in  pound  of  goods 

and  2*.  on  tun  of  wine,  293. 

,  lease  of,    136. 

on  cloth,  lease  of,  42,  104, 

105,  205,  206,  368,  522. 

on  wine,  10. 

,  parochial,    of    50,000Z., 

58. 

,  tenth,  126,  131,  399. 

,  ....  and    fifteenth,     1 , 

137. 
Taylour.     See  Taillour. 
Taynton,    Teynton,    co.    Gloucester, 
manor  of,  395. 

,  parson      of.     See      Styntes- 

combe,    William. 
Tebaud,  Peter,  of  Sleaford,  64. 

Roger,  of  Suffolk,  438. 

Tebay  [in  Orton],  co.  Westmoreland, 

53. 
Techemerch,  Henry,   190. 
Tekne,  John  de,  560. 
Tempest,  Richard,  389. 
Tempsford,  Tingsford,  co.   Bedford, 

341. 
Tenby,    Tynby,    Tyneby    [co.    Pem- 
broke], castle  and  lordship  of, 
248,  286,  287. 
Tendre,  John,  434. 
Tendryng,  William,  knight,  205. 
Tenham.     See   Teynham. 
tenures  : — 

barony  of  Bolbeck,  398. 
burgage,  60. 


tenures    oont. 

courtesy  oi   England,   I.  48,  60, 
157,   180,  315,  373.  374,  394, 
4 is.  546. 
frank  almoin,  1*7.  27<i. 

kvelkind,  67,  176,  179,207,418. 
honour  of  Albemarle,  157. 

of  Boulogne,  4,  481. 

of  Brecon,  290. 

of  Chokes,   315. 

of  Gloucester,   533. 

of  Hclvun,  312. 

of  Huntingdon.  34,  523. 

of   IVv.nl.   149,   169. 

of  Rayleigh,   3,   17,   52, 

179. 

of  Rayne,  Reymes,  172. 

of  Richmond,  158. 

Teperary.     See  Tipperary. 
Terling,  Terlynge,  co.  Essex,  fees  in, 
22,  23. 

,  Xecton,  Neketon  in,  24. 

,  Ridley,  Radelegh  in,  22. 

Terlyngham.     See  Tirlingham. 
Terroun.Torroun,  T torus  del,  484,  535. 
Terry,  Robert,  23  ). 
Terryes,  Maud,  143. 
Terstwode,  Elizabeth  de,  449. 

,  John  son  of  William  son  of 

Richard  de,  449. 

,  Richard   do,    449. 

Testwood,  Terstwode  [in  Eling,  co. 
Hants],  449. 

,  manor  of,  449. 

Tethis,  William,  99. 

Tetbury,  Tettebury  [co.  Gloucester], 

529. 
Tetlesworth.     See  Tettesworth. 
Tette,  Adam,  264,  265. 

,  Roger,  265. 

Tettebourne,  Adam,  clerk,  143. 
Tettebury.     See  Tetbury. 
Tettesworth,     Tetlesworth,     Tette- 
worth,  Andrew,  74,  75,  362. 

,  Edmund  de,  Edmund,  357. 

,  . .  . . ,  the  king's  sergeant  at 

arms,  317,  471. 
Tetyndon.     See  Tottington. 
Teuelby,  John  de,  chaplain,  495. 
Teukesbury.     See    Tewkesbury. 
Teveteshale,  Thomas  de,   552. 
Tewin,    co.    Hertford,    Queen    Hoo 
Hall,  Quynehawes,  Quynhaw 
in,  453,  455. 
Tewington,      Tewyngton      [in      St. 
Austell's],  co.  Cornwall,  manor 
of,  409. 
Tewkesbury,  Teukesbury,  co.  Glou- 
cester,   abbey    of,    abbot  of, 
47. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


749 


Tewkesbury,  abbey  of — cont. 

, abbot  and  convent  of, 

535. 

advowson  of,  308. 

,  borough  of,  306. 

manor  of,   306. 

Tewyngton.     See  Tewington. 

Tey,  Great  [co.  Essex],  255. 

,  .  .  .  .,  parson  of.      See  Wil- 

lyngham,  John. 

,  Marks,    Teye    Maundeville, 

co.  Essex,  fee  in.  22. 

Teye,  Robert,  Robert  de,  200. 

, ,  knight,   24,   240,   244, 

255,   354-356,   361,   367,  453, 
455,   456,   458,   464,   514. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Essex,  429. 

Teynham,  Tenham.  co.  Kent,  New- 
land,  Neweland  in,  57,  207. 

Teynton.     See  Taynton. 

Thacheworth.     See  Datchworth. 

Thame,  Tame  [co.  Oxford],  191,  192. 

,  abbot  of,  511. 

,  ....  and  convent  of,  325. 

,  deed  acknowledged  at,  511. 

,  hundred  of,  bailiff  of.       See 

Poresle,  Robert. 

Thame,  John,  550. 

,  Juliana    (Betovne)    wife    of 

William  de,  512. 

,  Nicholas,  of  London,  269. 

,  Robert  de,  mercer,  of  Lon- 
don,  516. 

,  William   de,    fishmonger,  of 

London,  512. 

Thames  the  river,  1 35,  1 36,  494. 

,  crane    situated    upon,    375, 

376,  391,  415. 

damage  done  by,  at  Oxford, 

388,  508. 

,  fishery  in,  408. 

,  keepers  of  passage  in,  183. 

,  lampreys   not   to    be   taken 

by  nets  in,  70. 

,  way  from  Fleet  Street  to,  26. 

,  weirs  etc.  in,  553. 

,   .  .  .  .,  survey  of,  508. 

Thameworth,  John  de,  95. 

Of.  Tamworth. 

Thaxted,  Thaxestede,  Thaxstede,  co. 
Essex,  250,  514. 

,  Yardlcy,  Yerdlee  in,  269. 

Thealby,  Theleby  by  Burton,  Thelby 
by  Barton  [in   Burton  upon 
Slather],  co.  Lincoln,  451. 
Thechero,  Thomas,   51(1. 
Thedyngworth,  Thomas,  Thoi 

58,  279. 
Thee.     See  Tye. 


Thefford.     See  Thetford. 
Thelby.     See  Thealbv. 
Thele.     See   St.    Margaret's. 
Theleby.     See  Thealby. 
Theleby,  John  de,  of  Thealby,  451. 
Thelewal,  Thelewall.     See  ThehralL 
Thelnetham,  John  de,  247. 
Thelwall,  Thelewal,  Thelewall,  Thel- 

wale,    Thomas,    Thomas    do, 

clerk,  274-277,  329,  359,  426, 

461. 

William  de,  334. 

Theobaldstreet,  Tyteburst  in  Alden- 

ham  [co.  Hertford],  232. 
Thetford,     Thefford     [co.     Norfolk], 

friars    preachers  of,  prior  of, 

335. 
,  monk     of.     See     Costeseye, 

Richard. 

,  prior  and  convent  of,  534. 

Thimbleby,  Thymelby,  co.  Lincoln, 

fee  in.  161. 
Thirnum.     See  Thurnham. 
Thirnyng.     See  Thornyng. 
Thomas,  Alico  wife  of  Thomas  son  of, 

de  Pydyuton,  560. 
,  Thomas  son  of,  de  Pydj-nton, 

560. 
Thoralby,  Thoraldby  [in  Avsgarth], 

co.  York,  138,  144. 
Thorbarne,  Thurboumo,  Ralph,  213, 

214. 

,  William,  214.  229. 

Thoresby,  South,  co.  Lincoln,  advow- 
son of,  25. 
Thoresby,  Ellis  de,  163. 
,  John,   archbishop  of   York, 

399. 
,  .  .  .  .,    bishop  of    Worcester, 

411. 
,  Richard    de,    keeper   of   the 

hanaper  of  chancery,  136. 
Thoresway,  Thoresweye,  co.  Lincoln, 

fees  in,  162. 
Thorgot,  Richard  son  of  John.  255. 
Thorington,  Thuryngton,  co.  Suffolk, 

lee  in,  24.  25. 
Thorlegh,  William.  24. 
Thorley,    Thorlegh    [co.    Hertford], 

'IS.'). 

Thornbury,  (■<>.  Gloucester,  Range- 
worthy,  Rengeworth  in,  228, 
22!). 

Thorndon,  co.  Essex,  32.-). 

Thorneton     Set    Thorntoni 

Thorney,  West.  Thorneye  [co. 
Sussex  |.  prebend  of,  SOU. 

Thorneyburn,  co.  Northumberland, 
Emblehope,  Emelhoppe  in. 
322. 


GENERAL     ENDEX. 


Thomhag]  ohm  de,   bailil 

I  inc. >ln.  S 

Thornton     (  urtis.     Thornton,     00. 

Linoom,  abbol  of,   1  62,  263. 
in   Lonsdale,   Lonesdale,  co. 

5  ork,  manor  of,  144. 
parson   of.      S<  i    Cau- 

ohoun,  John. 
Bteward,  Btuard  |eo.  York], 

manor  of, 
Tower   [in    Newbrough],   co. 

Northumberland,  322. 

manor  of,  322. 

Thornton.  Thoraeton,  John,  John  de, 

63. 
son    of    Lawrence    do, 

246. 

Nicholas.   663. 

Thomas  de,    criour,'  G8. 

of  Rysom,  226. 

William    de,    of    Middlesex, 

466. 
Thornyng,  Thirnvng,  William,   3C0, 

51 2. 
Thorp.  Ellis  de,  Ellis,  442,  44G,  447, 

630. 

,  Felicia  wife  of  John  de,  274. 

,  John.    John  de,   coroner  of 

co.  York,  6. 
,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Gloucester,  429. 
,     .  .  .  . ,     of      Chertsey,      the 

younger,  2  74. 
,    Robert    de,    justice   of    the 

Bench,  276. 
,  Thomas  de,  parson  of  Tydd, 

73. 
,  William      de,      burgess      of 

Grimsby  in  parliament,  429. 

, justice,  299. 

,  knight,  132,  133,  230, 

232,  336,  532. 
Thorpe   Hall,    Thorp   in   Hasketon, 

Hakeston,  co.  Suffolk,  fee  in, 

24,  25. 
Lubenham,  Thorp  by  Loben- 

ham      [co.       Northampton], 

manor  of,  228. 
Thorrington,    Thoryton,    co.    Essex, 

advowson  of,  192,  193. 

,  manor  of,    187-189. 

thread  of  Hois,  21. 

Threckingham,     Threkyngham,     co. 

Lincoln,  165. 

,  manor  of,  156. 

,  Thomas  vicar  of,  156. 

Threlkeld,  Katherine  wife  of  William 

de,  knight,  119. 
,  William  son  of  William  de, 

119. 


Thremenhale.     Sta  Thrombin. 

Thresk,  Tresk,  Ralph,  Ralph  de,  327. 
esoheator  in   Lincoln- 
shin*.    18,    17.  20.  26,   .'it),  4  7, 
127.  160,  163,   166,   161,  163, 
Kill.  180. 
William iif.  chaplain,  173. 

Throcking.  Throkkyng  [co.  Hert- 
ford],  parson  of.  See  Will- 
j  ogham,  William. 

Throkkesford,  John,  23. 

Throkkyng.     See  Throcking. 

Thromliill.  Thremenhale,  co.  Essex, 
23. 

Throw-lev.  Thurle  [co.  Kont],  priory 
of,  347. 

Thrusaington,  Thursyngton  [co. 
Leicester],   519. 

Thryft,  Robert,  44.1. 

Thurbourne.     See  Thorbarne. 

Thurkild,  Thurkyll,  Thomas,  320. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  guardian  of  the  peace 

and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  York,  554. 

Thurle.     See  Throwley. 

Thurnham,  Thirnum,  co.  Lancaster, 
fee  in,  500. 

Thursby,  co.  Cumberland,  Crof  ton  in, 
19. 

Thurstan,  Thomas  son  of,  de  Tildes- 
ley,  Tildeslegh,  207,  257. 

Thurston,  John,  of  Watton,  349. 

Thursyngton.     See  Thrussington. 

Thuryngton.     See  Thorington. 

Thweng.     See  Tweng. 

Thymelby.     See  Thifnbleby. 

Thyndon.     See  Finedon. 

Tickencote,  Tykencote,  co.  Rutland, 
manor  of,  505. 

Tickenham,  Tykenham,  co.  Somer- 
set, 227. 

Tickhill,  Tykhull,  co.  York,  77. 

Tiddelyng.  Edith  wife  of  Nicholas, 
143. 

,  John,  143. 

,  Nicholas,  143. 

Tidenham,  Todenham,  co.  Glouces- 
ter, manor  of,  135,  448. 

Tiderle.     See  Tytherley. 

Tiel,  Hugh,  510. 

Tilbrook,  Tylbrooke  [co.  Bedford], 
241. 

Tilbury  (by  Clare),  Tillebery,  co. 
Essex,  fee  in,  22. 

,  East,    Estilbery,    Estilbury, 

co.  Essex,  fee  in,  22. 

,  West,  Tillebury,  co.  Essex, 

136,  167. 

[West  ?],  Tillebury,  co.  Essex, 

port  of,  382. 


GENERAL 


Tildeslegh.     See   Tyldosley. 

Tildesley,  Tildeslegh.  Thomas  son  of 
Thurstan  de,  207,  257. 

Tille,  Tliomas.  83. 

Cf.  Tvle. 

Tillebery,  Tillebury.     See  Tilbury. 

Tillebury,  Tliomas,  of  London,  99, 
100. 

Tilmanstone,  eo.  Kent.  530. 

Tilneye,  Tylney,  Frederick  de,  351, 
354.* 

, ,  of    Boston,    342,    345. 

,  John  de,  233. 

Tiltey  [co.  Essex],  abbot  of,   23. 

Timberhanger,  Tymberhongle  [in 
Bromsgrove],  co.  Worcester, 
manor  of,  383. 

tin,  441,  442. 

,  stampage  of,  407,  408. 

Tindale,  Tyndale  [co.  Northumber- 
land], liberty  of,  322. 

,  .  .  .  .,  bailiff  of.     See   Strot- 

her,  Alan  del. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  lord  of.     See  Edmund 

earl  of  Cambridge. 

Tingrith,  Tyngre,  co.  Bedford,  300. 

Tingsford.     See  Tempsford. 

Tintagel,  Tyntagel.  co.  Cornwall, 
castle  of,  4o(i. 

,  manor  of,   409. 

,  Bossiney,  Bossynny  in,  409. 

Tintem  [co.  Wexford,  Ireland], 
abbot  and  convent  of,  311. 

Tipperary,  Teperary,  coimty  of, 
Ireland,  stewards  and  sheriffs 
of,   111. 

Tiptree,  Tiptre  [in  Great  Braxted], 
co.  Essex,  prior  of.  See 
Multon,  Thomas  de. 

Tirell.     See  Tyrell. 

Tirlingham,  Teriyngham  [in  Folke- 
stone], co.  Kent,  176. 

Tirwhit,  William,  clerk,   80. 

Tiryngton.     See  Torrington. 

Tiscott,  Tiscote  [in  Tring],  co. 
Hertford,  deed  dated  at,  2G7. 

,  manor  of,   206. 

Tissington,  Tyssington,  Tyaainton, 
Tyssynton,  Richard,  Richard 
de,  68. 

, clerk,  72,  98,  226. 

Titchmarsh,  Tychemerah,  co.  North- 
ampton, deed  dated  at.  513. 

,  lord  of.     See   Lovel,   John. 

,  manor  of,  51. "5. 

Tiverton,  <•<>.  Devon,  Loman  Clavill, 
Lomene  Clavyle  in.  307,  308. 
Toche,  John,  of  Kill'iam.  493. 

,  William,  of  London,  smith, 

342. 


TXDEX.  751 

Toche — cont. 

C/.Toke. 

Toekctts.  Toncotea  [in  Guisborough], 
co.  York,  tee  in,  499. 

TodenJiam.  SeeTidenham,  Tuddon- 
ham. 

Todham  (near  Arundel).  Tadoham, 
co.  Sussex,  manor  of,  458. 

Toft  [co.  Cambridge],  61). 

See  Fiahtoft,  Wigtoft. 

Toft,  Jolin  de,  guardian  of  the  peace 
and  justice  of  oyer  and  ter- 
miner in  Coventry,  474. 

,     .  .  .  .,     ....     and      of       the 

statutes  of  Winchester.  North- 
ampton and  Westminster  in 
Coventry,  342. 

,  Thomas  son  of  Kobort  de, 

395. 

Toftes,  John,  merchant,  418. 

Toke,  John.  472. 

Cf.  Toche,  Touke. 

Toky,  Richard,  235. 

the  younger,  351,  353. 

Tolbothe,  Geoffrey,  collector  of 
customs  at  King's  Lvnn,  509. 

toll,  18. 

,  exemption  of  ancient  de- 
mesne from,  322. 

Tollard  Royal,  Tollard  [co.Wilts],226. 

Tollerton  [in  AJne,  eo.  York],  391. 

Tolleshunt  Darcy,  Tolleshiuite  [co. 
Essex],  514. 

Knights,  Tolleshunt  Ivnygh- 

tes.  co.  Essex,  521. 

Tolluse.     See  Toulouse. 

Tolre,  Henry  de.  abbot  of  Abbots- 
bury,  384. 

Tolv,  Katherine  wife  of  Kobert,  520. 

.......  Robert,  520. 

Tolymond.     See  Tullymound. 

tombs  for  the  ear]  and  countess  of 
Arundel,  59. 

Tomere,  John,  87. 

William,  250,  251. 

Cf.  Toniour. 

Tomkyns,  William,  vicar  of  Bud- 
brook,  4S5. 

Tonbridge,  Tonbrugge,  Tonebrugge, 
co.  Kent,  i<»7.  lb"),  'joi. 

Toncotcs.      Set  Toekctts. 
Toncotea,  .lames  de.  499. 
Tonebrugge.     See   Tonbridge. 
Toneworthe,  Richard,  clerk,  6 
Toniour,  John,  of  Lambeth,  4 

Cf.  Tomere. 

Tony.     Set  Touy. 

Toop',  Roger,  justice  to  preserve  t ho 
oe  in  Bolland  in  Lincoln- 
shire,  22. 


GENERAL 


TopcUve  Toj  i  Ij  f,  To]  0I3  ve,  Walter, 

William,    William   do,   806, 

219,  271,  273. 
Torayne.     Set  Touraine. 
Tuivi.  Torell,  Thomas,  116,  264,  638, 

,v 

Old,  W  illiam.   623. 

Torksey,  oo.  Lincoln,  Brampton  in, 

127. 
Torold.  John,  258. 

Of.  Tumid. 

Torn>  [in    Tormoham,    co.    Devon], 

abbot  and  oonvenl  of,  6£ 
[co.   Pembroke],  foe  in,  191, 

192. 

Torrington,  Tiryngton,  co.  Lincoln, 

fee  in.    161. 

Great,    Chepyngtoriton,   co. 

Devon.  282. 

castle  of,  292. 

Torrington.  Philip  do.  archbishop  of 
I  .  sheL  481.  482. 

Torroun.     Sec  Terroun. 

Torahawe,   John,   of  London,   112. 

Torsmere.     Sec  Tusmore. 

Tortreigh.     See  Tywardreth. 

Totebache.     See  Tardebigg. 

Totenham.     See  Tottenliam. 

Totesham,  Richard  de,  knight,  109, 
112,  201. 

, ,  of  Kent,  272. 

Totham,  Great,  co.  Essex,  521. 

Little,    co.   Essex,    34,    179, 

521. 

,  . .  . .,  manor  of,  465. 

Tothe,  John,  526. 

,  Richard,  551. 

Tothill,  John  de,  59. 

guardian  of  the  peace, 

justice  of  oyer  and  terminer 
and  arrayer  of  men  at  arms 
in  the  West  Riding  of  York- 
shire, 300. 

Tottenliam,  Totenham,  co.  Middle- 
sex, 133,  249,  250,  256,  259, 
344. 

,  Bruce    Grove,   Berwyswode 

in,  259. 

Duckets,    Duket     in,      249, 

250. 

,  manor  of,  1 87-1 89,  287. 

Tottington,  Tetyndon,  Totyngton 
[in  Ayleaford,  co.  Kent],  ad- 
vowson  of  chapel  of,  507. 

,  manor  of,  507. 

Toucestre,  John,  of  Northampton- 
shire, 522. 

,     Richard      de,     the     king's 

serjeant,  219. 


IM'KX. 

Ten.  (  atre — rout. 

William  de,  tailor,  of  Lon- 
don, (lit. 

Toudeby,  John  de,  72. 

Touecestre.     S&    Towcester. 

Touke,  Margarel  wife  of  John  de  la, 
177. 

C/.Toke. 

Touker,  Adam.  266. 

Henry,  of  Avon,  28 1. 

Toulouse.      Tolluse      [France,      dep. 

1  laute  '  taronne  I.      merchants 
of,  382. 
Tounne,  Cicely  wife  of  JoJin,  79. 

John,"  78. 

Touraine.  Torayne  [France],  254. 
tournaments,  446. 
Tours,  Robert  de,  181. 
Touton.  Simon  de,  345. 
Tony.  John,  613. 
Tovy.  Roger,  of  Oxfordshire,  466. 
Towcester,    Touecestre    [co.    North- 
ampton],   540. 
Town    Barningham.     See    Barning- 

ham. 
Tracy,  Jolm,  261. 

, ,  knight,  228. 

trades,  etc.  : — 

armourers,   'armurers,'    77,    78, 
101,  116,  198,  313,  358,  377, 
616. 
baker,  200,  248,  281,  346. 
barbers,  344. 
bowyer,  463. 
brewer,  'bruere,'   'bruwer,'  216, 

438,  556. 
broiderer,  '  broydurer,'  337,  340, 

471. 
butchers,  269,  540. 
cappers,  75,  523. 
carpenters,  1,  288,  349,  447,  502. 
carter,  258. 
chandlers,  274. 
cooks,  481. 

coopers,   'coupers,'  350. 
cordwainers,  'cordewaners,'  200, 

222,  346,  414,  524,  534. 
cornmongers,   198,  261. 
'correour,'   217. 
'corsour,'    198. 
'criour,'  68. 
cutlers,  438,  459. 
drapers,  67,  114,  132,  196,  210, 
231,  261,  271,  281,  325,  339, 
424,  445,  495,  516,  517,  522, 
524. 
dyers,  261. 

farriers,  'marchal,'  'mareschal,' 
'marsshel,'  204,  281,  333,  344. 
fishers,  30,  212. 


GENERAL    IXDEX. 


753 


trades,  etc. — cont. 

fishmongers.  61,  67.  86,  97.  105, 

126,  127,  206,  --'lit.  253.  259, 

200,  280,  302,  445,  405,  409, 

512. 
'foubour.'   99. 

girdlers.   'gurdeleres,'  112,  438. 
goldsmiths.  62,  70.  93.  90,  100, 

195,  207,  211,  217,  209,  281, 

358,  462,  405,  516,  ."-40. 
grocers,  70,  84,  420,  47"),  519. 
hatters,  08. 
helmet  maker.  224. 
ismongere,  198. 
jeweller,   'joeueler,'  333. 
joiner,   'joignour,'  512. 
laundress.   542. 
leech,  leehe,  374. 
lyster,  84. 
mariners,    541. 
masons,  59,  344. 
mercers,    81,    83,    95,   208,   235, 

23(i,  272,  273,  278,  282,  438, 

468,  510. 
painter,  510. 

palfreyman,  519,  520,  524,  534. 
paternostrer,  281. 
pepperers,   204,   257,    351,    353, 

522. 
'peutrer,'  78. 
'pilters,'   438. 
sadders,  70,  281,  332,  341,  344, 

377,  440,  401,  550. 
shepherds,  207. 
shipman,  553.  556. 
skinners,   2,   62,  242,    342,   340, 

3f)8,  441. 
smiths,  337,  342,  445. 
stockfishmonger,  198. 
tailors,  09,  212,  201,   339,   346, 

349,  358,  366,  442,  462,  525, 

526. 
tapicer,  96,  212. 
taverner,  553,   556. 
tinners,  380. 
vintners.     •  vynteres,'     95,    114, 

198,   460,   515,    541. 
warner,  520. 
webster,  358.  409. 
'  wodmongers,'  281. 
woolmongers,  269,  343,  344. 
Travels.    Richard,    clerk,    rector   of 

Blendworth,  367,  358. 

,  Thomas,  knight,  ."557,  358. 

Trayle,  John,  318. 

knight  of  the  shiro  of 

Bedford,  536. 
Trayly,  John  son  of  John,  knight, 

520. 
treasure  trovo,  300,  380. 

\Vt.  11824. 


treasurer,  the.     See  Assheton.  Robert 

de  ;  I  ■  scrope,        Riehard  ; 

Wakefield,    Henry. 
treasurv,  the,  charters  etc.    kept  in, 

281,  339,  4:::!.  533. 
clerk      of.       See      Orgrave, 

Thomas. 
Treble.  Thomas  de,  532. 

Cf.  TrepeL 

Tredegolde,  William,  of  Barton,  445. 
Treeton,  Treton,  co.  York,  256. 
rector      of.       See      Stanley, 

Thomas  de. 
Trefilan,    Trevillan    [co.    Cardigan], 

400,  407. 
Treguier     [France,     dep.     C6tes-du- 

Nord]  ?    Landreger,    Landre- 

gerie,  merchants  of.  312,  320. 
Trelawgan  [in  St.  Columb  Minor]  ? 

Trelegen  [co.  Cornwall  T],  79. 
Tremenel,    Xicliolas,    of    Warwick- 

shire,  92,  93. 
Tremyr,  John,  chaplain,  484,  485. 
Trenewhit,  Robert,  521. 
Trenewytli,  Ralph,  receiver  in  Corn- 
wall   and    Devon,    407,    408, 

421. 
Trengrek,     Katherine    (Fcnhergard) 

wife  of  Thomas  son  of,  458, 

459. 
Trentemarcz,  John  son  of  Edmund, 

of  Middlesex,  200. 
Trent cmerssh.     See   Trentmcrssh. 
Trentham  [co.    Stafford],   prior  and 

convent  of,  247. 
Trentmcrssh,       Trentcmcrssh,       co. 

Nottingham.  56,   134. 
Trepcl,  Thomas,  265. 

Cf.  Treble. 

Tresilian,  Robert,  518. 
Tresk.     See  Thresk. 
Trestermount,  Trostormond  in  Bar- 
ton, co.  Westmoreland,  165. 
Tresyngges,  Eleanor  wit'eof  Hostelct- 

tus,  395,  396. 
Treton.     Sr>  Treeton. 
Treton,  Richard  de,  1 51 . 

clerk.    226,    233,    255. 

Trevarthiiin.  John,  381. 

son  of  John,  361. 

Trevillan.     Set  Trefilan. 
Treweman,  John,   100,   I  i 
Trikyer,  Philip,  of  Sussex.  212. 
Trillowe,  Thomas,  ■■!<'>•_>. 
Tring,  co.  Hertford.  Tiscott, 

in,  266,  267. 
Trippelowe,  A\  illiam,  ! 
Tristram,  John,  the  king's  falconer, 

,  '.i. 
TrokeL  Hugh,  265. 

48 


GENERAL     IXKKX. 


Trompyngton      S     Trumpington. 
rmond.     v       I       termount, 

Trotte,   W  dliam.    - 

Lreda  wife  <>f  Richard 

rohn  son  of  Richard,  53. 

Richard, 

Robot,  - 

ottockeahulL     >'<<  Trudox  Hill. 
.   Troutebek  [in  Winder- 
mere], in. 

trace  with  France,  proclamation  of. 
66. 

Trudox     Hill.     Trottockeahul]     [in 
Nunney,  co.   Somerset],  433. 

Trumpington,  Trompyngton,  Trum- 
pyngton,  co.  Cambridge,  2<»3. 

manor  of,   1  1  li.   117.  223. 

Trumpton,  Baier  de,  1 62. 

Trumpyngton.     N.  <  Trumpington. 

Trumpyngton,  Richard,  647. 

Trumwyn,    Elizabeth    daughter    of 
William,  of  Cannock,  L61. 

Truro,  co.  Cornwall,  Moreske  in,  409. 

Truabut,     Thomas,     of     Yorkshire, 
284. 

Trussell.    Larwence    son    of    Warin, 
59. 

William,  242. 

Tr\  a,  fishmonger,  of  London, 

2. 

T  113,  553. 

Tryvet,  Thomas.  318. 

. .'. ,  knight,     439. 

Tuddenham  (in  Carleford  hundred), 
Todenliam,  co.  Suffolk,  356. 

Tudemersli.  Nicholas,   140. 

Tudenham.  Christina  wife  of  William 
de,  235,  236. 

,  William  do,  mercer,  of  Lon- 
don, 235.  236. 

Tue,  Thomas,  481. 

Cf.   Two. 

Tullewyk.     See   Tulwick. 

TuUymound,  Tolymond,  William, 
342.  345,  351,  353. 

Tulwick.  Tullewyk  by  Wantynge  [in 
Charlton],  co.  Berks,  115. 

Tunstall,  co.  Kent,  436. 

Tunstall,  William  de,  268. 

Turald,  Rieliard,  246. 

Cf.  Torold. 

Turberville,  Turbervylle,  Turbervyle. 
Turburville,  Cicely,  109,  110, 
113. 

., ,  .  .  .  . ,  lady  of  Hatch  Beau- 
champ,   111. 

,      Elizabeth     daughter       of 

Stephen,  324. 

,  Robert  son  of  Richard  de, 

390. 


Turberville—  oonf. 

Thomas,  827. 

Turk,  P<  ter,  272. 

Richard,  of  Loudon.  r>3<>. 

Roger,  523. 

WiUiam,  523. 

lis)  in  longer,  of  London, 

362. 
Turvej  [co.  Bedford],  191,  192. 
Tusmore   '.'  Torsmere   [co.   Oxford], 

fields  of,  39. 
Tuxford,  co.  Nottingham,  manor  of, 

396. 
Tuylet,   Robert,  228. 
Tuynem.     See  Twineham. 
Two,  Thomas,  of  \\  elton,  107. 

Cf.  Tue. 

Twede.     See  Tweed. 
Twedemouth.     See  Tweedmouth. 
Tweed.  Twede.  river,  ferry  over,  401. 
Tweedmouth,    Twedemouth    on    tho 

Knidish  side  [co.  Northumber- 
land |.  lordship  of,  401. 
Tweng,   Thweng,   Twlieng,   Twyng, 

Edmund  de,  1(>4. 
,  Elizabeth      (de     Botrieux) 

daughter  of  Katlierino  sister 

of  Thomas  de,  499,  500. 
,  Isabel   (Pedwardyn)  daugh- 
ter    of     Margaret     sister     of 

Thomas  de,  500. 
,  John    do    Hothum    son    of 

Maud   daughter   of   Margaret 

sister  of  Thomas  do,  500. 
,  Marmaduke  son  of  Edmund 

de,  500. 
,  ....  son    of    John    son    of 

Edmund  de,  164. 

,  Robert,   210. 

,  Thomas,    Thomas  de,    165, 

272,  499,  500. 
Twenyngge.     See  Twining. 
Twerton,  Twyverton,  co.   Somerset, 

fee  in,  307. 
Twheng.     See  Tweng. 
Twickenham,       Twykenham       [co. 

Middlesex],  215. 
Twiford.     See  Twyford. 
Twineham,     Tuynem,     co.     Sussex, 

manor  of,  309. 
Twining,  Twenyngge,  co.  Gloucester, 

parson     of.       See     Idebury, 

Robert. 
Twinstead,    Twynstede,    co.    Essex, 

deed  dated  at,  225. 

,  manor  of,  225. 

Twyford,  Twiford,  John,  281,  289. 

,  Nicholas,  Nicholas  de,  460. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  alderman  of   London, 

332,  341. 


GENERAL     IXDEX. 


755 


Twyford,  Nicholas — cont. 
goldsmith,  of  London, 

106,    281. 

Robert  de,   knight.    524. 

Twykenham.     See  Twickenham. 
Twyng.     See  Tweng. 
Twynstede.     See  Tw  instead. 
Twyverton.     See  Twerton. 
Twvwell,  co.  XortJuunpton,  fees  in, 

189,  190. 
Tybesta,    Tybeste    [in    Creed],    co. 

Cornwall,  manor  of,  409. 
Tychemersh.  See  Titchmarsh. 
Tycul,    John,    butcher,    of    London, 

269. 
Tydd  [St.  Giles,  co.  Lincoln  ?],  Tyd, 

parson      of.         See      Thorp, 

Thomas  de. 
Tye,  Thee,  Matthew  de,  328. 
Tykencote.     See  Tickencote. 
Tykenham.     See  Tickenham. 
Tykhull.     See  Tickhill. 
Tylbrooke.     See  Tilbrook. 
Tyldesley,  Tildeslegh,  co.  Lancaster, 

Chaddock,  Chaydok  in,  257. 
Tyle,  Ralph,  332,  341. 

Cf.  Tille. 

Tyler,  John,  of  Worcester,  skinner, 

242. 
Tylney.     See  Tilneye. 
Tymberhongle.     See  Timberhanger. 
Tymberue,  Hamon,  97. 
Tynby.     See  Tenby. 
Tyndale.     See  Tindale. 
Tyndale,  John,  John  do,  411,  538. 
,  .  .  .  .,  escheator     in     North- 
amptonshire, 493,  494,  498. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Rutland,  494, 

505. 
Tyne,    river,    co.    Northumberland, 

fishery  in,  180. 
Tyneby.     See  Tenby. 
Tyngewyk,  William,  knight,  of  Lon- 
don, 281. 
Tyngre.     See  Tingrith. 
Tyntagel.     See  Tintagel. 
Tynten,  John  de,  of  Cornwall,  518. 
Typtoft,  Margaret  wife  of  Robert  de, 

178. 

,  Robert  do,  knight,  178. 

Tyrell,  Tirell,  Tyrol,    Hugh,   keeper 

of  Carisbrook  rustle,   4!M>. 
, ,  knight,  323,  424,  439, 

528,  55.-,. 

Thomas,   4(17. 

, knight,  198,  227,  278, 

367,  464,  527. 

,  Walter,  401,  464. 

Tysho,  Richard  de,  clerk,  200,  512. 
Tysoe,  Tysho,  co.  Warwick,  455,  461. 


Tyssington,    Tyssinton,    Tyssynton, 

■   Tissmgton. 
Tyte,  John,  143. 
Tytebuist.     See  Theobaldstreet. 
Tyteahale,  John,  228. 
Tytherley,    Tiderle,    co.    Wilts    [by 

West  Tytherley,  co.  Hants], 

352. 
Tywardreth    [co.    Cornwall]  ?    Tor- 

treigh,  prior  and  convent  of, 

470. 
Tywarnhaile.  Tywarnaill  [in  Perran- 

Zabuloe],   co.   Cornwall,   409. 


Uffington,  Offynton  [co.  Berks],  425. 

,  Balking,  Badelkyng  in,  425. 

Ufford,      Oft'ord,      Isabel     wife     of 

William  de,   earl   of    Suffolk, 

378. 
,  Margaret  wife  of  Robert  de, 

earl  of  Suffolk,  47. 
,  Robert  de,  earl  of  Suffolk, 

36. 
,  William  de.  earl  of  Suffolk, 

354-356,   378,   387,   395,  477, 

526. 
,  . .  . . ,  j  ustico  to  preserve  the 

peace  in  Suffolk,  113. 
Ufton,    Of  ton    Roberd    [co.    Berks], 

354. 

,  advowson  of,  354. 

manor  of,  354. 

Ughtred,  Thomas,  Thomas  do,  329. 

, ,  knight,  500. 

UK,  Thomas,  of  Santon,  207. 

Cf.    Santon. 

LTllesthorpe,  Olosthorp,  co.  Leicester, 

manor  of,   3! 
ulnage,    104. 
Ulromo.  Ulram  [in  Bridlington,   co. 

York],  4 «):{. 
Ulster,  Ireland,  earl  of.      See  Mortuo 

Man',  Edmund  de. 

,  lordship  of,  1 1 . 

biting,  co.   Essex,  Bfugdon,  Mokol- 

\  DgtOD   in,   396. 

Ulverstone,  Ulverston  in  Fourneys, 
co.  Lancaster,  manor  of,  .'{75. 

Ulvesby.     See  Ouaby. 

CTmframville,  Humnamville,  Gilbert 
de,  l'.d.  192. 


GENEB 

I'mfrainville,  (ullvrt  de-  cant. 

sari  of  Angus,  96,  l  SO, 

180,  181,  5 
m  ■  u  ife  of  Robert  <l<\ 

L80,  181. 

Maud     (tie     l.ucv)     wife      of 

bed  de,  160,  300. 

Robert,     Robert    do.     1  so. 

181. 

knight  of  the  ahin 

tfauml  erland,  I 
Unfrav.      rnnvv.      Richard,      216, 

216. 
Upohurch,    Upcherche,    Upchirche, 

oo.  Kent,  206,  219,  280. 
Uplambome.     >'■  <    Laxnbourn. 
Opminster,  Upmynstre,  co.  Et 
IK;. 

Bridge   House,   the  Bri 

hous  in.  1 1  6. 
Uppehulle,  Amice,  '204. 
Upthorp.  co.   Northampton,   foe   in, 

19<>. 
Upthrop,  Upthorp  [in  Aldcrminster], 

co.  \\  i  r,  383. 

Upton,    co.    Leicester,     manor    of, 
317. 

[oo.   Salop],  parson  of.      See 

Walsh,  William. 

fin    Badsworth],    co.    York, 

manor  of.  148. 

by  Bnodsbury,  co.  Worcester, 

335. 

Noble,   I'pton   Caboche,   co. 

Somerset,  fee  in,  307. 

on    Severn,     co.    Worcester, 

manor  of.  305. 
Warren.  Waryn,  co.  Worces- 
ter, manor  of,  122. 

,   Cooksey,  Cokeseye  in, 

383. 
Upton,  Margery  wife  of  Robert  de, 
230. 

,  Robert  de,  132. 

,  William,  513. 

Urchfont,    Erchesfonte    [co.    Wilts], 
deed  dated  at,  459. 

,  parson     of.       See     Skillyng, 

Walter. 
Uriel.     See  Louth. 

.vvk.  Robert,  439. 
Ussher,  John,  133,  200,  331,  362. 

, citizen     of     London, 

253,  250. 
Uterwyk,    Henry    de,    of    Kampen, 

master  of  la  Cristofre,  12. 
Utterby,  Ralph  de,  burgess  of  Grims- 
by in  parliament,  429. 
L'xendon,  Woxindon  [in  Harrow],  co. 
Middlesex,  manor  of,  357. 


AT,     I  X  I  >!X 


V 

Vacho.  Philip  la.  do  la,  310.  323. 

knight,  248,  280,  337. 

Richard  la,  knight,  328. 

\      lum.  John,  191.  192. 
Yale.    William    do    la,    eseheator   in 
Cumberland,  6,  11,  10,  18,  19, 
20,26,  53,  60. 
in    Northumber- 
land, 17,  18,  20,  35,  53,  121. 

,    in     Westmore- 

land,  20,  52. 

, in  Yorkshire,  19, 

20,  47.  51.  103. 

Cf.   Valle. 

Valencia,  Valence  in  Arragon  [Spain], 

125. 
Valencia,  Valence,  A\  mer  de,  earl  of 
Pembroke.  503. 

,  Joan    wife    of    William    de, 

386. 

,  Mary  wife  of  Ajmer  de,  earl 

of    Pembroke,    91.     See   also 
Sancto  Paulo. 
,  William    de,    earl    of    Pem- 
broke, 380. 
Valentine.  John  le,  328. 

Margaret   wife   of    John   le, 

328. 
Vallo,  Stephen  de,  bishop  of  Meath, 
5,  311. 

Cf.  Vale. 

Valoigns,  Elizabeth  wife  of  Waresius 

de,  knight,  270. 
Vange,  Fanges,  co.  Essex,  187,  188, 

189. 
Vanner,  Henry,  114,  357,  358. 
Van  Rothe.     See  Rothe. 
van  then  Overe.     See  Overe. 
Vauncy.     See  Fauncy. 
Vaus,    John    son    of    Adam    le,    of 

Beaufront,  342. 
Vautorde,  John,  fishmonger,  of  Lon- 
don, 61. 
Vautort,  John,  512. 
Vavasour,  William,  266. 

, ,  of  Weekley,  107. 

Vayn,    Andrew,    of    Kingston   upon 

Thames,  436. 
Vaynor,  Veynour  [co.  Brecon],  ad- 
vowson  of,  25. 


CKXERAL    INDEX. 


7.-.T 


Veel,  Peter,  Peter  do,  knight,   227, 
228,  327,  329,  462. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Gloucester,  "556. 

Cf.  Veile. 

Veer,  Aubrey  de.  knight,   107,  108, 

109,  111,  201,  520,  521. 

,  Jolin,   190. 

,  Thomas  de,  oarl  of  Oxford, 

162,  503. 
Veile,  Veyle,  Joan  wife  of  Richard, 

163. 

,  Richard,  551. 

, ,  of  Burnby,   163. 

Cf.  Veel,  Viel. 

Vendome,  Jolui,  keeper  of  wines,  11. 
Vendour.  John,  of  Nottinghamshire, 

333. 
Veneour.     See  Vonour. 
Venice  [Italy],  473. 

,  merchants   of,    422. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  in  London,  458. 

venison,  trespass  of.  See  vert. 
Venisse,  John,  ship  master,  292. 
Venn  Ottery,  Fenotry  [co.  Devon], 

farm  of,   17. 
Venour,  Veneour,  Ellen,  332. 

,  .....  of  Fulscote,   461 . 

,  Joan,  93,  115. 

,  Nicholas,  519. 

,  William,  William  le,  235. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  citizen  of  London,  341. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  merchant  of   London, 

222. 
Vento,     Manuel,     of     Genoa,     ship 

owner,  94. 
Verdoun,  John.  190,  191. 

, ,  knight,  399,  400,  461. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Stafford,  428. 

,  Thomas,  190. 

Vermandois,  Vermondoys  [division  of 

Picardy.  France],  254. 
Vernon,  Vernoun,  John,  guardian  of 

the  peace  and  justice  of  oyer 

and  terminer  in  Oxfordshire, 

437. 

,  Richard  de,  500. 

vert  and  venison,  trespasses  of,  34, 

90,  397. 
Vesselier,  Peter,  471. 
Veyle.     See  Veile. 
Veynour.     See  Vaynor. 
victuals,  purchase  of,  for  the  royal 

household,  126. 
Viel,  Vyel,  John,  of  Bristol.  182. 

,  Richard,  of  Helleedon,  616. 

Of.  Veile. 

Vieno,  Richard,  of  Sussex,  M\. 
Vigurous,  Richard,  364. 


Villa.  BerengariuB,  merchanl  oi  Cata- 
lonia, 196. 
Villa  Canis,   Peter  de,  merchant  of 

Catalonia.    l'lti. 
Villarius,  William,  merchant  of  Cata- 
lonia,  L96. 
Vincent,  Vyncent,  John,  of  London, 

110. 

, ,  of  Rothwell.  228. 

son      of     Robert,      of 

Rothwell,  230. 
Vine,  Vyne,  Andrew,  211. 

,  John,  211. 

,  draper,  of  London,  1 32, 

133,  2:51. 

,  William.  211,  231. 

Virgene,  \\  illiam.  266. 

Virley,  Virly,  co.  Essex,  52 1. 

Virly,  Thomas.  442. 

Vise,  John,  419. 

Vowchurch,  co.  Hereford,  Monning- 

ton  Stradel.  Monvton  in,  350. 
Vyel.     See  Viel. 
Vyncent.     See  Vincent. 
Vyne.     See  Vine. 
Vyriour,    William,    parson  of   Aller, 

306. 
Vyse.     See  Devizes. 


W 

Wabrune.     See  Wey bourn. 
\\  acche,  John.  245,  541. 

Cf.  Weoehe. 

Waco.    Was.    Gilbert,    knight,    260, 

513,  528. 
, kniuht  of  tho  shire  of 

Oxford,  636. 

, of  Oxfordshire,  513. 

Wacton,  Waketon,  co.  Norfolk,  491. 
Parva,  St.  Mary  Waketon [oa 

Norfolk],  church  of.  492. 
,   Reynold,    parson    of, 

491. 
Waddesdon,  Wodesden,   Wotesdon, 

co.  Buckingham,  71. 

,  advowson  of,  62. 

manor  of,  62. 

Waddeslev,  Wadesleye,  William  de, 

326. 
rector     of     South     (>t- 

terington,  -**~>7. 
Wild.  .  Ilirliunl,  ..:;». 


75S 


fiENEB  \l, 


Robert,  olerk  of  the  ku 

household  chapel,  21 '.'. 
leeleye,     Set   Waadealey. 

W  adesmilL  WadeemyU  [in  Standon, 
rd  |.  repair  oi  road 
from  Puckendge  bo,  4.'!!>. 

w  idham,  John,   106. 

Wadworth,  .John  de,  !•'.». 

Wainhope,  Waynesohoppe,  Waynes- 
hoppe,  Wayneshopside  [in 
FaJstone],  oo.  rlorthumber- 
land,  322. 

park  at.    322. 

Wake,  Blanche,  lady  of  Liddeu,  2r>r>. 

Bugh,  233. 

John  son  of  Hugh,  knight, 

232. 

Thomas,  461. 

\\  tkebrugge,    Wakeburg,   Elizabeth 

wife  of  William  de,  08. 

William,  de,  68,   7'-'. 

Wakefield.  Wakefeld,  co.  York,  517, 

518.  531. 
Wakefield.  Wakefeld,  Henry,  Henry 

de,  bishop  of  Worcester,  259, 

269. 

,  clerk,  207. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,   the    treasurer, 

466,  546. 
Wakelevn,    Lydia   wifo   of   William, 

549. 

,  William,  304,  549. 

,  of  Eyden,  549. 

,  of    Northamptonshire, 

94. 
Wakering,     Wakeryng,     Great,     co. 

Essex,  3. 
Wakerley,    Wakerlegh    [co.    North- 
ampton],    parson     of.       See 

Marcheford,  John  de. 
Wakeryng.     See  Wakering. 
Waketon.     See  Wacton. 
Walbrond,  James,  mayor  of  Ware- 
ham,  226. 
Waldegrave.     See  Walgrave. 
Waldegrave,    Richard,    Richard   de, 

190. 
, ,  knight,  229,  255,  264, 

537-539. 
,  . . . . ,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Suffolk,  429. 
Walden.     See  Saffron  Walden. 
Walden,  Humphrey  de,  knight,  22. 

,  John,  John  de,  278,  349,  357. 

,  Robert,  burgess  of  Warwick 

in  parliament,  537. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Warwickshire,  534. 

Cf.  Waudene. 

Walderne.     See  Waldron. 


INDEX. 

Waldeyeve,  Edmund,  of  Warwick- 
shire, 628. 

Margery  w  ife  of   Edmund, 

628. 

Waldron.      Walderne.      co.      Su 

manor  of,   17s.  300. 
Wales,  --')s. 

defence  of,  487. 

marches  of,  (.<l.  4 in.  420. 

concealed      goods      in, 

478. 

,  escheators   in.         See 

Brugge,  Edmund  atte  ;  Lee, 
Roger  atte ;  Perton,  John 
de;  I  tees.  Johnap;  Sergeaunt, 
John;  Walshale,  William. 

,  merchants  of,  412,  489. 

ministers  of   John  duke   of 

Lancaster  in,  487. 

,  North,  420. 

, chamberlain  of.     See 

Craddok,  David. 

,  .  .  .  .,  justices  of,   405.      See 

also  Skypwyth,  William  de. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    possessions     of     the 

prince  of  Wales  in,  405. 

ordinance   relating   to   wool 

merchants  of,   412. 

,  prince     of.       See    Edward, 

Richard. 

,  princess  of.     See  Joan. 

,  principality  of,  253. 

,  South,    420. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chamberlain  of.       See 

Young,  Hugh  le. 

,  justices  of,   406.      See 

also  Skypwyth,  William  le. 

,  West,  420. 

Walesham.     See   Walsham. 

Waleton.     See  Walton. 
Waleys,    Joan    (Warner)    daughter 
of  John,  96. 

,  John,   96,   224. 

,  Ralph,  escheator  in  Glouces- 
tershire, 478,  488,  493. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    ....     in     Hereford- 
shire, 478,  490. 

,  Richard,  341. 

,  Robert,  382. 

,  Stephen,  558,  559. 

,  William,  433. 

, ,  girdler,  438. 

Cf.  Walsh. 

Walford  [in  Baschurch,  co.    Salop], 
173. 

,  ?  Welleworth,  16. 

Walford.     See  Welford. 
Walgrave,    Waldegrave,    co.    North- 
ampton, fee  in,  190. 
Walkefare,  Thomas,  knight,  247. 


GENERAL 

Walkemulle,  John  de,  248,  252. 
Walle,  John.  49.~>.  555. 

William  at  to.  301. 

Wallee.     See  Woolley. 
Wallere,  Thomas,  62. 
Walleworth.     See  Walworth. 
Wallingford,  Walyngford  [co.  Berks], 
68,  197,  278,  527. 

burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

430,  537. 

,  castle  of,  408. 

,  fishery  at,  408. 

,  mill  at,  408. 

,  places  named  in,  408. 

Wallington,  Wallyngton,  co.  Hert- 
ford, manor  of.  453,  455. 

,  co.  Norfolk.  516. 

Walmesford.     See  Wansford. 
Walour.  Robert,  194. 
Walpole,  Reynold,  172. 
Walsh,   Walsche,   Walssh,    Clement, 
clerk,  451. 

,  Edith  wife  of  John,  391. 

,  John,  255. 

,  .  .  .  .,  goldsmith,  of  London, 

269. 

,  Perceval,    keeper   of   Astley 

priory,    128. 
,  Thomas,  escheator  in  Leices- 
tershire,   124,    140,    141,    146, 
149,  162. 

, in  Warwickshire, 

122,  124,  141,  157. 

,  Walter,  542. 

,  .  .  .  .,  esquire,  280. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   the     king's     esquire, 

272. 

,  William,    William    lo,     191, 

192. 

,  .  .  .  .,  parson  of  L^pton,  140, 

141. 

Cf.  Waleys. 

Walshale,  William,  escheator  in 
Salop.  176,  192,  294,  296,  311, 
314,   378,   379,  410,  48.3,  493. 

, in    Staffordshire, 

296,  317,  322,  410,  478,  493. 

,  .  .  .  .,   ....  in  the  march   of 

Wales,  176,  192,  294.  311,  478, 

49::. 
Walsham,     Walesham,     Welesham, 

Welaham,    Wolaham,    Ralph 

do.  Hi").  135.  286,  287. 

,  Robert  de,   IT  J. 

,  Roger  de,  221. 

,  knight,  334,  451. 

Walssh.  See  Walah. 

Walsshef,  John,  ot  1  hddin^ton,  230. 

Walsyngham,  Edmund.  Edmund  de, 

110,  512. 


INDEX. 

Waller.  John,  66,  216. 

Nicholas,   215. 

Walter.  21li. 

S,<    Pita  Walter. 

Waltham,  (heat,  co.  K  -<  \.  96. 

, ,  bailiffs  of,  362. 

deed   dated  at,   96. 

fees  in.  22,  23. 

Chatham  in.  22. 

Holy  Cross,  co.  Essex,  abbot 

of,  22. 
Little,  co.  Es^e\.    Boycroft 

alias   Sparehaukeseye  in,  23. 
Waltham  forest,  co.   Essex,  election 

of  verderers  of,  311,  497. 
Waltham.  Hugh.  289. 

capper,  of  London,  75. 

John  de.  510,  511. 

, ,  clerk,  24U,  249.  468. 

,  .  .  .  .,  king's  clerk.  385. 

,      dwelling     in 

chancery,  86. 

,  Thomas  de.  of  London,  336. 

Walton  [in  Chesterfield,  co.  Derby], 

226. 

[co.    Suffolk].  246. 

Dayville.  Walton  [in  Welles- 

boune  Hastings,  co.  Warwick], 

455. 
,  lord     of.        See     Les- 

trange,  John. 
le  Dale,  in  le  Dale,  co.  Lan- 
caster,   121). 
on     Thames,      Walton,      co. 

Surrey,  61. 
on    the    Hill.    Wauton,    co. 

Surrey,  manor  of.  370. 
,  ....'!  W' a  let  on,  co.  Surrey, 

218. 
,  West,  W'estwalton,  co.  Nor- 
folk,  342.   367. 
Walton.   Waleton,   W'olton,   Gilbert 

de.    500. 

,  Hugh.  3(19. 

John.  de.  218. 

,  Thomas,  clerk,  228. 

Cf.    Want  on. 

Walton  in  le  Dale,  Henry  de.  69. 
Walworth,     Walleworth,      William. 

William  de.  276,  362,  .V_>8. 
alderman    of     London. 

332,  341. 

citizen  of   London.   64, 

263,  266. 

collector  of  the  great 

CUBtom  in  the  port  ot   London. 
166. 

m.i\  or  of,  and  e\cliea- 

tor  in  London.   132.   140,    I   • 
230,  259. 


GENERAL     tNDEX. 


\\  ahrorth,  William — coiU. 

mayor  of  the  staple  of 

Westminster,  •_' 7 « '• .  .">I7.  560. 

Walyn   ford.     Set  Wallingford. 

Walyngford,  John  de,  prior  of  St. 
Prideewidi  i d.  1 5,  B 

Walyngton,  John,  John  de,  74,  549. 

ooroner  of  Northum- 
berland,  7.    140. 

Wambergh.     See  Wanborough. 

Wampford,  Nicholas,  knighl  of  the 
shire  of  Cornwall,  ■*•_'!•. 

Wanborough,  Wambergh,Wanebergh 

[CO.    Wilts],    l<Mt. 

deed  dated   at.    100. 

rectory  of,  110. 

St.        Katherino's       chapel, 

warden      of.       See     Annore, 
Richard. 

vioar  of.     See  Hore,  Adam. 

Lower,     Estwanebergh     [in 

Wanborough.       co.       Wilts], 
places  named  in,  100. 

Wandeeford,  Adam,  collector  of 
customs  at  Boston,  508,  509. 

Richard,  Kiel  tardde,  mercer, 

of  London.  272,  278,  279,  468. 

Wanebergh.     See  Wanborough. 

Wanetyng.     See  Wantage. 

Wanhaston.     See  Wenhaston. 

Wansford,  Walmesford  [co.  North- 
ampton], deed  acknowledged 
at,  360. 

Wanstede,  Alice  wife  of  William,  124. 

Wantage,  Wanetjmg,  co.  Berks, 
Charlton,  Cherloton  by,  115. 

Wantyn.iz.         Wantynges,  Alice 

(Foumeus)  sister  of  William, 
73. 

,  Joan  daughter  of  John  de,  4. 

,  John,   327. 

,  Richard,  clerk,  266. 

,  William,   73. 

,  ....  son  of  William,  73. 

Wapley  in  Lofthouse  ?  Claphowe,  co. 
York,  fee  in,  499. 

Warblington,  Warblyngton  [co. 
Hants],  Westbrook,  Weste- 
broke  in,  110. 

Warblyngton,  John  de,  319. 

ward,  seizure  of,  into  the  king's 
hands,  114. 

wardage,  391. 

Wardale,  Werdale,  John,  274,  280. 

Warddedewe.     See  Wardedieu. 

Warde,  Elizabeth  wife  of  William, 
167. 

,  Geoffrey,  the  king's  palfrey- 
man,  540. 

,  John,  167,  461. 


\\  arde,  John — cont. 

mayor  <>f.  and  esohea- 

tOT  in  London.  808,  3<i(i. 

ol   Bedford,  "»47. 

Richard,  207. 

Robert,  of  Qolbeach,  chap- 
lain. 7."i. 

Simon.  266. 

,  esoheator    in    North- 

amptonshire    I  12. 

steward  and  keeper  of 

the    lordship    and    casus    of 
( lakham,  40. 

William.  167,  213. 

Wardeeopp.      S<-<    Warthocopp. 
Wardedieu,     Warddedewe,     Henry, 
167,  532. 

, of    Tilmanstone,    500. 

,  Katherine    wife    of    Henry, 

167. 
Wardleo,  Thomas  de,  90. 
Warden,    Warden   abbey,    co.   Bed- 
ford, 513. 
,  abbot    of.       See    Clif- 
ton, Walter  de. 
Warden,  John,  190. 
Wardon,  John  de,  clerk,  271. 
wardrobe,  the,  matters  certified  in, 

125. 
Ware,  co.  Hertford,  254,  282,   543. 

,  prior  of,  423. 

Ware,  Hugh  de,  127,  216. 

,  Robert,  465. 

Wareham,  Warham  [co.  Dorset],  297. 

,  deed  dated  at,  226. 

,  mayor   of,    297.       See   also 

Walbrond,  James. 

,  ships  of,  59,  297. 

Warenna,   Joan   wife    of    John    de, 
502. 

,  John  de,  earl  of  Surrey,  502. 

Warenner.     See   Warner. 
Waresley,  Worsle  [co.  Huntingdon], 

523. 
[in  Hartlebury],  co.  Worces- 
ter,  255. 
Wareton,  Roger  de,  236. 
Warfeld,  John  de,  74. 
Warfoule,  Geoffrey,  143. 
Warham.     See  Wareham. 
Warin.     See  Waryn. 
Warkton  ?  Wuthton,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, fee  in,  190. 
Warmyngton,     Warmynton,     Wer- 
mynton,     Richard,     Richard 
do,   210. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  chaplain,   117. 

,  Thomas  de,  prior  of  Kenil- 

worth,  124. 
Warneford,  John,  228,  229. 


G  i:\ERAL    INDEX. 


Ttil 


Warnell,  Warnhill  in  Inglewood 
forest  [in  Caldbeck],  co.  Cum- 
ber land,  ti. 

,  Warnell  Close  in,   8. 

Warner,  Warenner,  Waryner,  Ed- 
mund. 23,  238,  459. 

, of  Great  Waltham,  96. 

, verderer  of  Waltham 

forest,  311. 

,  Henry,  of  Charfield,  327. 

Joan     (Waleys)     wife     of 

Edmund,  96. 

,  John,   412. 

, ,  of  Ware,  254,  255. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  parson    of     Stockton, 

459. 

,  Richard,  of  Walton,  455. 

,  Robert,  442,  542. 

Thomas,    Thomas    le,    160, 

425,  449. 

,  William,  83. 

Warnhill.     See  Warnell. 

Warre,  John  le,  knight,  307. 

Cf.  Were. 

Warrevick.     See  Warwick. 

Warrewyk.     See  Warwick,  Warwik. 

Warsop,  Thomas  de,  36. 

Warthecopp.Wardecopp,  Thomas  de, 
knight  of  the  shire  of  West- 
moreland, 428. 

William  de,  54. 

Warthill,  Warthull,  co.  York,  164. 

WTarton,  co.  Lancaster,  advowson  of, 
500. 

,  Carnforth,      Kerneford     in, 

500. 

,  Mourholm,    Moresholme   in, 

144. 

Warwick,  Warrewyk  [co.  Warwick], 
77,  82,  84,  110,  320. 

,  burgesses  of,  in  parliament, 

537. 

Warwick,  Warrewick  [co.  Warwick], 
earl  of.  See  Bello  Campo, 
Thomas  de. 

Warwick,  county  of,  105,  205,    256. 

,  coroners  of,  7,  297. 

,  alnager    of     cloth     in.     See 

Bay,  John. 

,  escheator  in.     See  Bernard, 

John;  Flamville,  Robert; 
Foxton,  Richard  do;  Holt, 
Walter  ;    Walsh,  Thomas. 

,  guardians   for   keeping   the 

peace  in,  341. 

,  ....  of     the     peace     and 

justices  of  oyer  and  terminer 
in.   47) 

knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

536. 


Warwick,  county  of — cord. 

sheriff  of,   7,  285,  297,  486, 

524. 

taxation  in,  206. 

Warwik,  Warrewyk,  Philip  de,  chap- 
lain. 7(.i. 

Robert  de,  271.  341. 

Waryn,  Warm.  Adam,  of  Colchester, 
255. 

,  John,  76,  350. 

, ,  clerk,  521. 

, of  Purleigh,  301. 

,  Owyn  ap,  417. 

merchant   of    Wales, 

416,  489. 

,  Robert,    230. 

,    ....,    knight   of    the   shire 

of   Huntingdon,    429. 
,  William,    collector    of    cus- 
toms at  Boston,  508,  509. 

See  Fitz  Waryn. 

Waryner.     See  Warner. 
Was.     See  Wace. 

Washington,   co.   Sussex,   Chancton, 
Chaungeton  and  Clayton,   la 
Cleye  in,  370. 
Wasket,  John,  of  Fryerning.  212. 
Wasteneys,  William  de,  430. 
Water,  Watro,  Robert  atte,  143,  453, 
455.  464,  514,  515. 

,  William  atte,  266. 

Waterbeach,  Waterbeche  [co.  Cam- 
bridge], 113. 

,  Denny,    Ueneyo    abbey    in, 

113. 
Waterden,     Richard,     Richard     de, 
escheator    in    Norfolk,     140, 
157-159,  169,  315,  321. 

in    Suffolk,    140, 

158,  L59,  176,  372. 
Waterford  [co.  Waterford],  Ireland, 
bishop  of.     See  Lismore  and 
Waterford. 

,  citizens  of,  392. 

,  mayor  and  bailiffs  of,  13,  304. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  and  commonalty 

of,  392. 

,   ....  and  citizens  of,   111. 

,  port  of.   13. 

proclamation     rolating     to, 

111. 
staple  of.  3SS,  412. 

Water   Stratford.     Set   Stratford. 
Waterton,  Hugh,  178. 

Watford.  Watlford.co.  Hertford,  65, 

, Oxhey,  I  tasye  in,  89, 

92. 
co.  Northampton,  minor  of, 

315. 


GENERAL 


\\  atford,  Benedict  de,  520. 
.  John  de,  < 
the  |  in  North  Cove],  oo.  Suffolk, 
manor  of,  871. 

Watlington,  Watlyngton,  oo.  Nor- 
folk, 616. 

Peter  parson  of,  199. 

Watlyngton,  Robert,  oi  Oxfordshire, 
95. 

Watre.     S      Water. 

Watte,  Thomas,  78 

Watton.    Watton    atte    Btone,    co. 
tford,  349. 

free  chapel  of,  349. 

rumor  of,  .'549. 

St  e  What  ton. 

Waudene,  Thomas  de,  256. 

Of.  Walden. 

Waundell,  John,  241. 

Wauter,   Sslamon,   530. 

Wanton.     8e*   Walton. 

Wanton.  John,  L99,  240. 

William  de,  William,  knight, 

3:54.  342,  464. 

Of.  Walton. 

Wavendon,  Wavyngdon,  co.  Buck- 
ingham, manor  of,  167. 

Waverton  [in  Wigton],  co.  Cumber- 
land, 19. 

Wavyngdon.     See   Wavendon. 

Wawn  [co.  York],  Meux  abbey  in, 
80,  223. 

wax,  291. 

wayf  cattle,  187. 

Wayneschoppe,  Wayneshoppe,  Way- 
neshopside.     See    Wainhope. 

Wayte,  John,  clerk,  95. 

,  Nicholas,  247. 

,  Richard,  515. 

,  Robert,   515. 

,  Walter,  115. 

Weald,  South,  co.  Essex,  Brook 
Street,  Sedeburgh  broke  hos- 
pital in,  340. 

Weasenham,  Wcsenham,  co.  Norfolk, 
manor  of,  451. 

WTebbe,  John,  121,  122. 

,  Richard,  of  Holborn,  543. 

,  William,  404. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Bassingbourn,  210. 

W'ecche,  Weeche,  John,  463. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  steward    of    Cookham 

manor,  222. 

Cf.  Wacche. 

Wedon,  Ralph  de,  knight,  244,  245, 
257. 

,  Roger  de,  of  Coventry,  525. 

Weedon,  Wedon  in  the  Vale  by 
Aylesbury  [in  Hardwick,  co. 
Buckingham],  245. 


1  n  1  >i:x . 

Ion     oont, 

manor  of,  244. 

Weekley,   Wykelee  [00.   Northamp- 
ton], i<»7. 

Boughton  in.  1 90. 

weights  and  measures  : — 

the  lesser  hundred,  49. 
weirs,  407,  553. 

survey  of,  508. 

Welbeok,  Welbek,  co.  Nottingham, 

abbot  and  convent  of,  542. 
Welbourne,  William,  471. 
Welby,   Elizabeth  wife  of  John  de, 
296. 

,  John  do,  296,  297. 

,  Richard  do,  of  Moulton,  73, 

457. 

,  Roger  do,  73. 

Welde.     See   Northwcald    Basset? 
Welde,    Jo) m,    John   atte,    23,    160, 
225,  481,  556. 

,  escheator     in     Essex, 

169,  172,  175,  179,  188,  189, 
L93,  302,  319,  379,  395. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  in  Hertfordshire, 

174,   183,   302. 
Welee,  Thomas  de,  92. 
Welesham.     See  Walesham. 
Welewas,  John,  252. 

Of.  Welwes. 

Welford,  Walford,  Welleford,  John, 
goldsmith,  of  London,  96. 

,  Roger  de,  clerk,  78,  241,  525. 

,    .  .  .  . ,    .  .  .  . ,    of   Northamp- 
tonshire, 544. 
Welham,     Hervey     de,     parson     of 
Stockton,  234. 

,  Robert  de,  246,  247. 

Welhowe.     See  Wellow. 
Well,  WTelle  [in  Ickliam,  co.  Kent], 
332. 

,  co.  York,   138,  144. 

Welle,  Jolin  atte,  John  de,  225,  247. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of  Northamp- 
ton in  parliament,  430. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Drayton,   257. 

,       . .  . . ,      of     Walton,     the 

younger,  246. 

,  .  .  .  .,  justice,  300. 

,  .  .  .  .,  S.T.P.,  of  the  order  of 

Friars  Minors,  237. 

,  Richard  atte,  115. 

Welleford.     See   Welford. 
Wellersham.     See  Willisham. 
Welles.     See  Wells. 
Wellesbourne  Hastings,  Wellesborne 
[co.  Warwick],  Philip  vicar  of, 
455,  461. 

,  Walton  Dayville,  Walton  in, 

455. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


763 


Wellewe.     See  Wellow. 
Welleworth.     See  Watford. 
Wellington,  Welyngton  [in  Ledbury], 

co.  Hereford,  manor  of,  530. 

,  co.  Salop,  Allocott,  Adeles- 

cote  in,  483. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  Hadley  in,    5.58. 

Wellow,     Welhowe     [co.     Lincoln], 

abbot  and  convent  of,  86. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  John,  abbot,  and  con- 
vent of,  105. 

,  .  .  .  . ,   deed  dated  in  chapter 

of,  105. 

,  Wellewe,   co.    Somerset,  fee 

in,   307. 

,    .  .  .  . ,   Baggridge,    Bakerich 

and  Peglinch,  Pegelynche  in, 
307. 

Wells,  Welles  [co.  Somerset],  1. 
,  archdeacon   of.      See   Lang- 
ham,  Simon  de. 

,  archdeaconry  of,  farmer  of. 

See  Shepton,  Thomas. 

,  bishop    of.     See    Bath    and 

Wells. 

next    the    Sea,   Welles    [co. 

Norfolk],  collectors  of  subsidy 
in  port  of,  30. 

,  fishers  of,   30. 

Welnetham.     See  Whelnetham. 

Welsham.     See    Walsham. 

Welton,  co.  Northampton,  107,  315. 

Welton,  John  de,  of  Lincoln,  368. 

,  William  de,  527. 

Welwes,  Henry,  parson  of  St. 
Nicholas,  Bread  street,  Lon- 
don, 468. 

C'/.  Welewas. 

Welwyk,  Stephen,  85. 

Welyngton.     See  Wellington. 

Wem,  Wemme  [co.  Salop],  99,  359. 

,  Botiler  of,  410. 

,  Edstaston,     Edstanton     in, 

358. 

Wenden,  co.  Essex,  366. 

,  deed  dated  at,  366. 

Wendlyngburgh.  Wendelyngburgh, 
John  de,  king's  clerk,  90,  91 . 

,  .  .  .  . ,  .  .  .  . ,  parson  of  East- 
wood, 128. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the     younger,     king's 

clerk,  253. 

Wendy,  co.  Cambridge,  208. 

Wengrave.     See  Wingrave. 

Wengrave,  William,  clerk,  550. 

Wenham,  Great,  Burnt  [co.  Suffolk], 
advowson  of,  544. 

Wenhaston,  Wanha.ston,  co.  Suffolk, 
234. 

,  manor  of,  234. 


\\  enhaston—  cont. 

Malls,  Mollis  in.  234. 

Wennington,  Wenynton  [co.  Essex], 

manor  of.  244. 
Wensleydale,  WYnsladale,  co.  York, 

138.  144. 
Wente,  John.  lt)4. 

,  Thomas  atte,  del,  510. 

Wentebrigge,  John,  (14. 
Wenynton.     See  Wennington. 
Werdale.     See  Wardale. 
\\  ere,  Richard  le,  472. 

Cf.  Warn  . 

\\ Crehale,  John,  462. 

Werkeworth,    William,    of    London, 

556. 
Werkman,  Thomas,  344. 
\\  i  rkyngton.     <Sec    Workington. 
\\  ermynton.     See  Warmyngton. 
Wernuiir,  Henry,  165. 
Weseman,  Andrew,  191,  192. 
Wesenham.     Sec  Weasenham. 
West,  Henry,  241. 

,  John,  213,  214,  228. 

, of  Ayot  St.  Lawrence, 

89,  268. 

, ,  of  Badby,  78. 

, ,  of  Worton,  215. 

Thomas,  clerk,  94. 

, ,  knight,  241,  432,  518. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Braintree,  450. 

William,  265. 

Westacre    [co.    Norfolk],    prior    and 

convent  of,  520. 
Westbechesworth.         See       Betch- 

wortli. 
Westbroke,  Henry,  clerk,  103. 
Westbrook,  Westebroke  in  Warbling- 

ton  [co.  Hants],  110. 
Westbrunne.     See  Kirkburn. 
Westbury  [co.  Buckingham],  521. 

,  deed  dated  at,  550. 

,  places  named  in,  521,  550. 

,  vicar  of.     See  Barker,  Jolm. 

Westclendon.     See  Clandon. 
Westcott,    Westcote    [in    Dorking], 

co.  Surrey,  manor  of,  188,  189. 
Westdepyng.     Sn.  Deepin 
Westderham.     See  Dereham. 

Westehroke.      6'ee  W 'esthrook. 

Weetederbishire.     See  Derby,  West. 
Westele.   Westeleye,   Weetle,   John, 

Johnde,  251,  266. 
,    janitor    of     Windsor 

castle.  166. 
William  de.   23. 

w  esterdale,  Nicholas,  631. 
Weeterrield,  Weatirfeld,  oo.  SulTolk, 
:{;.ti. 

\VoKtgomoinuth.     »s"     i  unuouth. 


GENERAl    im»i:\ 


W  i  athaddon.     St  <    I  [addon. 

\\  i  sthall,     \\  ■  Bthale,     ....     Suffolk. 

man.'  I,  .".  IT. 

Westham,   Westhamme.     Set    I  lam. 
Weethai  i  Id.  I  lanning- 

field. 
Westhathelsay.     Set  Haddlesey. 
\\  eetherlj  i  See  1  [ai  I,' 

tirfeld.     Set    Weeterfield. 
\\  ■  stkanete.     8t  •    Kennet. 
\\.  stfe.     Set  Wt  Jtele,  Weetley. 
w  ■  stlexham.     St  i    Lexham. 
\\  •  ~tl.  \  \\  atarleas,  Westle  Wateo 

Cambridge,  manor  of,  321. 
Weetludeford.     Set   Lydford. 
\\  i  .-tmill.  Weetmelne,  oo.  Hertford, 

manor  of,   603. 
Wt  stminster,  64,  78,   196,  203,  ■_ 

286,  426,  434,  440,  47l\ 

4  7.;. 

abbey,  abbot  of,    282,    286, 

3s7. 

Nicholas  abbot  of,  219, 

220,  267. 

* ,  cause  at.  423. 

chancery  at,  (11,  77,  80,  94, 

97,  101,  103,  115,  195,  212, 
217.  223,  230,  237,  245,  248, 
250,  255,  256,  259,  271,  281, 
323,  334,  339,  341,  3G0,  424, 

435,  438,  446,  449,  459,  460, 
468,  512,  516,  531,  538,  555- 
557. 

,  council  at,  26,  41,   75,   129, 

131,  l'.'!7.  262,  253,  268,  287, 
295,  325,  368,  403,  404,  431, 
432,  443,  472,  511. 

,  deeds  acknowledged  at,   61. 

etc.   da;ed  at,   64,   72, 

73,  74.  76-80,  84,  87,  105,  110, 
112.  205.  206,  230,  L'33,  244, 
•_'4i).  250,  266,  271,  272,  327, 
351,  353-355,  364,  367,  368, 
424,  425,  427,  456,  462,  514, 
520-522. 

,  Ebury,    Eye    in,    253,    256, 

362. 

,  exchequer  at,  302,  338. 

.great   hall   in    the    court   of 

chancery  at,  546. 

HaU,   72. 

,  justices  at,  64,  69,  75,  79-90, 

93,  95,  96,  113,  198,  199, 
210,  217,  218,  235,  242,  245, 
247,  254,  278,  288,  332,  333, 
335,  336,  339,  345,  365,  376, 

436,  442,  449,  460,  471,  523- 
527,   534,  547. 

. .  . . ,  letters      close      dated      at, 
passim. 


Westminsb 

palaoe,  lot  t •  e  dated  at, 

on. 
privy  chamber  of  the 

council  l'\   il.o  wliite  tower  in, 
alii. 

parliament  at,  2.  9.  42,  136, 

152,  203.  L'(i.-,,  282,  318,  319, 
.  428,  434,    142,  466,  467, 

503,  •".--.  529,  636. 
St.    Stephen's   chapel,   dean 

of,  435. 

,  staplo  of,  325. 

,  ....,   mayor    of,     61.      See 

also  Pyol,  John  ;    Walworth, 

William. 

statute  of,  341. 

Westmoreland,  county  of,  519,  527. 

coroners  of,  371. 

,  esoheators  in.      See   Bygot, 

John ;     Culwon,    Gilbert    de ; 

Louther,   Eugh  de  ;  Sayville, 

John ;  Scothorskelf,  John  de ; 

Vale,  William  de  la. 
knights  of  the  shire  of,  428, 

535. 

,  lord  of.     See  Clifford,  Roger. 

,  sheriff  of,  371. 

,  taxation  in,  522. 

Westnesse.     See  Ness. 

Weston,     Colly,     Colyweston,      co. 

Northampton,  manor  of,   51. 
Favell,   Fauvel,    co.    North- 
ampton, fee  in,  189. 

,  Old,  co.  Huntingdon,  43. 

sub  Edge,   Weston    Weston 

Underegge,     co.     Gloucester, 

29. 

,  manor  of,  455. 

super    Mare,    co.     Somerset, 

Ashcombe,     Asshcombe      in, 

307. 
Turville,  Turvyle  [co.  Buck- 
ingham],    parson     of.       See 

Boteler,  Edward. 
under  Lizard,  Luseyord,  co. 

Stafford,  manor  of,  161. 

See  Whetstone,  Wiston. 

Weston,  Geoffrey  de,  520. 

,  John  de,  John,  93,  206,  227, 

290. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  escheator  in  Norfolk, 

24   27. 
,    !  .  . . ,    in  Suffolk,   24, 

47. 

,  .  .  . . ,  of  Godmanchester,  84. 

,  Lambert  de,  knight,  305. 

,  Lawrence  de,  226. 

,  Margery  wife  of  William  de, 

132,  230. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


7G5 


Weston — cont. 

Richard    do.    Richard,    4C2, 

472. 
,    ,    chaplain,    226,     463, 

465. 
William   de,    William,    132, 

230. 
,  .  .  . . ,  chaplain,    warden    of 

the  chantry   of   St.   Nicholas 

and  St.  Katharine,  Orich,  69. 

,  .....  of  Kennet.    520. 

Westow,  Wystawe,  co.  York,  146. 
,  Eddlethorpe,  Edelthorp  and 

Firby,  Fretheby  in.  146. 
Westwalton.     See  Walton. 
Westwicombe.     See    Westwycombe. 
Westwode.  William  de.  510. 
Westwrotham.     See  Wretham. 
Westwrottyng.      See  Wratting. 
Westwycombe,  Westw  icombe,  John, 

John  de,  468. 
,  .  .  .  .,  knight  of  the  shire  of 

Hertford,  429.  536. 
,  .  .  .  .,  of  Hertfordshire,  225, 

279. 
Westwyk,  Hugh  de,  85,  193,  364. 

, -clerk.  64.  364. 

Westwyttenham.     See  Wittenham. 
Wetewang.     See   Wetwang. 
Wetheral,  co.  Cumberland,  pond  at, 

16. 
Wetheresfeld,  Wetherisfeld,  John  de, 

530,  532. 

,  Robert,  of  London,  127. 

,  Thomas  de.  532. 

Wetherisfeld.     See  Withersfield. 
Wetwang,  Wetewang,  Jolm,  472. 

,  Richard   de,   223. 

Wexford,  Weysford,  county  of,  Ire- 
land, lord  of.     See  Hastynges, 

Jolm  de. 

,  stewards  and  sheriff  of.  111. 

Weyboum,   Wabrune,    co.    Norfolk, 

prior  of,  321. 
Weyland,  William.  215,  216. 
Weymouth  [co.  Dorset],  bailiffs  of, 

366. 
Weysford.     See  Wexford. 
W'haddon,  co.  Cambridge,  66. 
Whalley,  co.  Lancaster,  Downham, 

Dounome  in,   181. 
Whaplode,  Quappelade  [co.  Lincoln], 

339. 
Whaplode,  Wlmppelode.     See  Quap- 

l  i  lade. 
Whatley,  Wliateleigh  [co.  Somerset], 

parson   of.     See   liyrv,    Jolin 

de. 
Whatrigge,    Richard,     verderer    of 

Windsor  forest,  137, 


Wliatton,  Whatton  in  la  Vale,  co. 

Nottingham,   lees  in.    182. 
,Watton,  Long[oo.  Leioester], 

rector    of.     Bee    Chaddesden, 
Geoffrey  de. 
wheat,   13,  119,   126  127,  209,  349, 
491. 

proclamation     relating     to, 

2(>8. 

prohibition  of  oxport  of,  103. 

rent  of,  97. 

theft  of,  397. 

Wheler,  \\  illiam,  of  Enfield,  232. 
Whelnetham,  Little,   kittle  Wemet- 

ham,    co.    Suffolk,    advowson 

of,   305. 

manor  of,  3o.">. 

Wherwell,    Wherewell    [eo.    Hants], 

abbey  of  St.  Cross.  548. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  abbess  and  convent  of, 

269. 

,  .....  Cicely  abbess  of,  548. 

\\  heston.     See  Whetstone. 
Whetelee,  William,  362. 
citizen  of  London,  253, 

266. 
Whethermerssh,  Jolm,  2o.">. 


Richard  de,  205. 


Whetholme  in  Easington  [co.  York], 
223. 

Whetstone,  Weston,  Wheeton,  co. 
Leicester,  fees  in,   162. 

Wheyrigg,  Whirig,  Whyrig  [in  Brom- 
field  |,  co.  Cumberland,  53. 

Whinfell  forest,  Whynfell  [by 
Brougham],  co.  Westmore- 
land, foresters  of,  411. 

Whirig.     See  V.  heyrigg. 

Whitacre,  Hugh  de,  85,  88. 


Richard  de,   255. 


Whitberne.     See  A\  1 1 it o  Burn. 

Whitby,  Whiteby  [co.  York],  72. 

,  abbot  and  convent  of,   72, 

86. 

Whitchurch,  Whytechurch  [co. 
Glamorgan],  manor  of,  3o<>. 

Ynys-yr-ysgallon,  En- 

j  BUalgOUC    in.    ."!"<>. 

[co.  Hants?],  347. 

co.  Salop,  Leetrange of  Black- 
mere  in,  1 76. 

White.  \\  byte,  John  le,  John,  510, 
655. 

Richard,  469. 

Robert,    of    Holbeach,    tho 

elder.  7^. 

Thomas  brother  of  Robert) 

7:;. 

of  Rochester,  97. 

William,  od  TunstalL  436. 


GENERAL 


Whitebi  William  atte,  100. 

White    Bum    [in    Kidland]1   Whit- 
berne,    « o,    Northumberland, 

Whitebv.     8*   Whitby. 
Whiteclyve,  Alice  wife  of  John,  143. 

,  John,  143. 
Whitefeld,    Katl  ei ine,    1  <)•">. 
Whiteheved,  Ainu,  chaplain,  64. 
Whitehora,      W  alter,      the      lob 

esquire.  'MO. 
Whitenham.     >-■    Wittenham. 
White  Nbtley,  Nottele.     See  Not  lev. 
Etoding,       Rothyng.        See 

Roding. 
Whitewell,    Whytwelle,    Henry   de, 

234,  236,  237. 
roan  wife  of  John  de,  234, 

236,  237. 

Ibhn,  250. 

of   the   parish    of    St. 

Bepulchre,  London,  208. 
son  of  Joan  de,  234- 

237. 
Whitloke,  John,  master  of  tlie  king's 

barge  called   the   Thomas,   7. 
Whitlyng,  Jolui,  436. 
Whitnash,  Whitnassh  [co.  Warwick]. 

122. 
Whitrik,  John,  2G5. 
Whittington,  Whytyngton,  co.  Lan- 
caster, manor  of,  145. 
Whittlesey,  William  de,  archbishop 

of    Canterbury,     05,    81,    97, 

116. 
Whixlev,  Quixlay,  Quixley,  co.  York, 

500. 

,  fee  in,  500. 

Whorlton,  co.  York,  Faceby,  Fayce- 

by  in,  500. 
Whynfell.     See   Whinfell. 
Whyrig.     See  Wheyrigg. 
Whytchirch,  Thomas,  269. 
Whyte.     See  White. 
Whytechurch.     See    Whitchurch. 
Whyther,  Adam,  90. 

,  William,  of  Dorset,  251. 

Whytwelle.     See   Whitewell. 
Whytyngton.     See  Whittington. 
Wibbenham,      Wybbenham      [near 

Eardisley  ?],     co.      Hereford, 

lordship  of,  370,  490. 
Wichbold,  co.  Worcester,  Astwood, 

Astewode   in,    493. 
Wiche,  Wyche,  John,   merchant   of 

SaUsbury,  88. 

,  ....  del,  of  Staines,  267. 

Wichford,    Robert,    canon   of    SaUs- 
bury, 459. 
Cf.  Wickford. 


INDEX. 

Wichyngham,  Wyohingham,  Wych- 
yngham,  James  de,  of  London, 
208 

William  de,  220,  232. 

guardian  of  the  peace 

and      ol      tho      statutes      of 

Northampton,        Winchester 

and    Westminster   in  Coven- 
try, 341. 
,     ....,    justice    in    eyre    in 

Kent,  80,  81. 

knight,  227. 

Wick    [in     Yatton]  ?     Wyke,     co. 

Somerset,  323,  433. 
Wicko,   Henry,  merchant  of   Sluys, 

12. 

Cf.  Wike. 

Wioken  Bonhunt,  Wykes  by  New- 
port, co.  Essex,  358. 
Wickford,  Wikoford,  Wikford,  Wyk- 

ford,  Jol in  de,  472,  540. 
Robert    do,    archbishop    of 

Dublin,  432. 
,    . . . . ,    chancellor    of 

Ireland,  373. 
,     . .  . . ,    constable    of 

Bordeaux,  385. 

Cf.  Wickford. 

Wickham     Skeith,     Wykham,      co. 

Suffolk,  510. 

,  mill  at,  510. 

,  West  [co.  Kent]  ?  Wykham, 

parson       of.         See       Lane, 

William  in  the. 
Wickhambrook,    co.    Suffolk,    Bad- 

mondisfield,     Badmondesfeld 

in,  187,  188. 
WTideviUe,  Wydeville,  Richard,  190. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  knight  of  the  sliire  of 

Northampton,  536. 
widow,  seal  used  by,  452. 
Wigan,  co.   Lancaster,  Abram,  Ad- 

burgham  in,  312. 

,  Hindley,  Hyndeley  in,  334. 

Wigborough,   Great,   Great  Wygge- 

berwe,  Wygberw6  by  Saltcote, 

co.  Essex,  521. 

,  . . . .,  fee  in,  23. 

,  . .  .  . ,  parson  of.    See  Sutton, 

Nicholas  de. 
,  Little,  Little  Wygbergh  [co. 

Essex],  advowson  of,  464. 
,     .  .  .  . ,    Copthall,     Copped- 

halle,  Coppedehalle  in,  464. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  deed  dated  at,  464. 

Wiggenhall,  Wygynhale,  co.  Norfolk, 

472,  516. 
Wighill,    Wighhall,    Wyghhale,    co. 

York,  452,  454. 
,  manor  of,  452,  454. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


767 


Wight.  Isle  of.  defence  of.  4^4.  496. 
exemption  of  men  of. 

from    attendii  -ions    on 

mainland.  4'. 

shipwreck  off,   125. 

Wighthani.  Edmund  de.  34t>. 
Wightman.    Withman,    Wyghtman, 

W  illiam.  92,  :.  " 
of    Hunting- 
don in  parliament.  430. 
,  the     king's     Serjeant, 

414. 
of    Huntingdonshire, 

203. 

of  London.  282. 

Wigpet,  Wikepet    by   Neweport    [in 

Arkesden],  co.  Essex,  fee  in. 

Wigston.  Wykyngeston,  co.   Leices- 
ter, fee  in.  lt>2. 
Wigtoft  ?  Toit  [co.  Lincoln].  312. 
Wigton.    Wygton,    co.  Cmnberland. 

Blaithwaite.  Blakthwayt  and 

Waverton  in,  19. 

church  of,  1 1 . 

Wike.     See  \\  "ix. 

Wike.    WykB,    Geoffrey,    M.A..    of 

Oxiord.  4" 

John  de.  John.  C2. 

clerk.  3 

Nicholas.    Nicholas    de,    91. 

236. 

Robert.  332.  341.  461. 

Thomas  atte.  -J4  7. 

Cf.  Wicke. 

Wikeford.     See  Wickford. 
Wikepet.     See   Wig]  et. 
Wikford.     See  Wickford. 
Wilardesley.      Si  I    Willersley. 
Withernam,  Jolin.  citizen  of  London. 

353. 
Wilbraham.  Great  Wyiburg- 

ham.  co.  Cambridge,  301. 

court  of.   301. 

Wilcombe.  NichoL 

Wilcot.    co.   AVilts.    Draycote    Fitz 

Payn  in.  4 
Wilde.    Wvlde.    Thomas,    chaplain, 

14m.'  141. 
William,     clerk,    parson    of 

St.  Bwithin,  Won  519. 

wa  sio. 

Wildeeos.  Nicl  71. 

will,  declaration  of.  set  out.   !" 
Wfllardealej       S      \\  iUaraley. 
WiUe.  Luke,  bailiff  ol  284. 

Willersliain  im. 

Willersley.    Wilai  Willa* 

id].  lordship  of, 
37".  490. 


WflTeeden,  Willesdon.  Richard.  231. 
merchant   of  London, 

Willesford,  Richard  de.  39 
William.  Willi.  500. 

.   116. 

-         its  William. 

Williamson.     John,  :nt     of 

Zierickzee,    4<>2. 
Wilhamtliorp  [in  Nortli  WingfieklL 

co.  Derby,  manor  of.  226. 
William  Wylye,  co.  Hertford,  220. 
Wilhngale   Doe.    WOhnghala,   Wyl- 

ynghale,  co.  Essex,  Jolin  par- 
son of.  23s. 

fee  in.  23. 

Spain.  Willii..  Willinc- 

hale       S  :  -hale 

B   ayne,  co.  1 

_      24. 

Spain's  Hall.    Spavnes- 

hallin.  101 
Willingham,      Wyvelj  [co. 

182,  537-539. 
Wilhaham,  Wellersham,  Willersham. 

co.    Suffolk,    deed   dated   at, 

32  S. 

manor  of.    35 

Wffloughby,  Sdk.  Nortli  Wyllughby 

[co.  Lincoln], 
Wihyngham,     Wylyngham,     Jolin, 
raon  of 

Wilham.   341. 

parson   of   Tlirocking, 

LS3. 

Wilman.  Jolin.  112. 
Wilmington,     co.     Kent.     Rowehill. 
Roughall.    Rowhall    in,    357, 
15. 
Wilsliam.  Jolin.  235. 

Ralph  de.  24S.  249. 

Wilteshire.     Set  Wiltshire. 
Wilteeir.     Set  W  il 
Wilton,  co.  Wilts. 

abbey    of.    33. 

abbess  of.       See 

Anchor,  SibyL 

and    con- 

vent  of,  90,  4( 
1  rioross      and 

-s  of,  in  parlia- 

Bishop,  Wvlton  [co.  York], 

>1. 
Wilton,  John,  'isn  of  London, 

198 

T:  516. 

Wilts,  county  of,  Will 

3o-  ;y. 


Trts 


HENERAL     l\M'\ 


Wilts — ront. 

ooronen  of,   1 19,   156,   L59, 

168,  802. 

.tor   fax        £        I       J  Ue, 

n  :      Bamham,      <  >li\  er  ; 
Bomerton,  Nichol 

guardians  of  the  i  eaoe  and 

justice  r  and  terminer 

in.    I 

issues  of) 

knights  of  the  ahire  of,  429, 

16. 

sheriff  of,  16,  27,  49,  66,  94, 

100,  119,  166,  169,  167,  168, 
802,  466,   634. 

taxation  in,  206. 

wool  gathered  in,  88. 

Wiltshire,  Wilteehire,  Alice  wife  of 
John,  413. 

John,     citizen    of     London, 

413. 

of  Hoyden,  267. 

Richard,  393. 

Wilughby,  Wyllughby,  Wyloughby, 
Wylughby,  Jolin  de,  161. 

clerk  of  tlie  court  and 

council  of  the  lord  of  Barton 
on  Huxnber,  451. 

,  Robert  de.  clerk,  82. 

justice.  299. 

Thomas,  635. 

Wilynghale.     £?«  Willingale. 

Wimbish.  Wymbisch,  Wymbissh  [co. 
Essex],  259. 

...deed  dated  at,   259. 

,  parson  of.     See  Lamboume, 

Robert  de. 

perpetual     vicar    of.       See 

Haselbech,    Richard. 

Wimborne  Minster.  Wymborne 
Mynstre,  co.  Dorset,  156. 

Petersham,  Pytreches- 

li.ira  in,  132. 

St.   Giles,   St.   Giles  Upwyn- 

bnrn  Plecy  [co.  Dorset],  par- 
son of.     See  Hallu,  Steplien. 

Wimpole,  WympeL  Wympole, 
Wvnepol,  Wynpole,  co.  Cam- 
bridge. 66,  li(».  250,  323,  549. 

,  deer's  dated  at,  03,  66. 

,  manor  of,  250,  323,  549. 

Wincbcombo,  co.  Gloucester,  Greet 
in,   558. 

Winchelsea,  Wvnchelse  [co.  Sussex], 
374. 

,  bailiffs  of,  10,  11,  12,  40,  374. 

,  mayor  of.  10,  11,  12,  40. 

,  port  of,  11,  12,  486. 

,  taxation  of,  10. 

Winchester  [co.  Hants],  112,  458. 


Winchester — cord. 

bishop  of.        S>  i     W'ykcliam, 

William  de. 

bishopric  of.   |  ions  at, 

at  Taunton,  1. 

temporalities  of,  60  f. 

Castle,    prison   in.    3!»7. 

citizens  of,    85,    332. 

deeds  dated  at,  85,  226. 

merchants  of,  461. 

prior  of  tiiars  preachers  of, 

363. 

statute  of,  guardians  of,  341. 

1  [yde,  I  [ide  abbey  by,  abbot 

and  convent  of,  536. 
Windermere,      Wynandermer,      co. 

Westmoreland,  manor  of,  with 

members,  144. 
,  Applethwaite,    Appilthwayt 

and  Trout  beck,  Troutebek  in, 

144. 
Windsor,    Wyndesore    [co.    Berks], 
i  le  of,  constable  of,  44, 164. 

See  also  Lepet,  Helm,\-ng. 
, janitors  of.     See  Por- 
ter. Ralph  ;Westele,  John. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  warrant  dated  at,  555. 

forest,   olection  of  verderers 

of,  137. 

,  letters  close  dated  at,  539. 

,  park  at,  44. 

,  the    king's    froe    chapel    of, 

warden      of.       See      Mugge, 

William, 
wine,  11,  14,  21,  22,  292,  293,  296, 

312,  387,  417,  484,  486,  489, 

498,  505,  535. 

of  Gascony,  393,  485. 

prise  of,  393,  422. 

,  red,  297. 

,  sweet,  regulation  of  sale  of, 

529. 

,  taxation  of,  10,  11,  136,  293. 

,  the  chancellor's  fee  of,  9. 

,  the  Idng's,  8,  394. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  service  of  tasting,  142. 

,  white,  1 86. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Spain,  11. 

Winfarthing,       Wynferthyng,       co. 

Norfolk,  manor  of,  187,  188. 
,  Heywood,  Heywode  in  Diss, 

Heywody  in,  106. 
Winford,    Wynford,    co.    Somerset, 

fees  in,  307. 

,  Redghill,  Ragelbury  in,  307. 

Winfrith        Newburgh,        Wynfred 

Neuborough,  co.  Dorset,  143. 

,  manor  of,  143. 

Wingfield,   Wyngefeld,    co.    Suffolk, 

159. 


GENERAL 

Wingfield — cont. 

,  North,  co.  Derby,  William- 
thorp  in.  226. 
Wingrave,  Wengrave,  co.   Bucking- 
ham. 24.-.. 

Rowsham,  Roleshamin,  245. 

Winnall.  Wynhale  by  Winchester  [co. 

Hants],  Henry  parson  of,  112. 
Winter,  Wynter.  Wyntre,  John,  3GG. 

,  .*. .  .  son  of  John.  366. 

,  Nicholas,  349. 

,  Richard,   23. 

,  William,  clerk,  332,  341,  461. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Town  Barningham, 

354-356. 
Winterbourne,     Wynterbourne    [co. 

Gloucester],  advowaon  of,  29. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  manor  of,  29. 

,  . .  .  . ,  parson  of.     See  Mor- 

dak,  Robert. 
,  Wynterbome,      co.      Wilts, 

120. 
Earls,  W\-nterbome  Earls  [co. 

Wilts],  141. 
Ford,  Wynterbome  Ford  [by 

Salisbury,  co.  Wilts],  4,   141. 
Winterfold,  Wynterfold  [in  Chaddes- 

lev    Corbet],    co.    Worcester, 

383. 
Winteringham,    Wyntryngham,    co. 

Lincoln,  fee  in,  162. 
Winterslow,        Wyntereslewe,        co. 

Wilts,  ad  vow  son  of,  308. 
Wintonea.     See  Wynchestre. 
Wintringham,  Wyntryngham  [in  St. 

Neot's,  co.  Himtingdon],  233. 
Winwick,  Wynswyk,  co.   Lancaster, 

parson    of.     See    Slene,    Wil- 
liam de. 
Wircestre.     See    Worcester. 
Wiresdale.     See  Wyersdale. 
Wiresdale,  William,  216. 
Wirlyngwortli.     See  Worlingworth. 
Wisebech,   Wysebeche,   John,   John 

do,  225,  446. 
,      of    Cambridgeshire, 

284. 

,  Peter,  clerk,  64. 

Wisset,  Wyset,  co.  Suffolk,  manor  of, 

158. 
Wiatanstow,  oo.  Salop,   Pelhampton, 

Feldhamton  in.  558. 
Wiston,  Weston  [co.  Pembroke],  fee 

in,   101,   192. 
Wistow,  co.  Leicester,  fee  in,  1 90,  191. 
Witham   CO.  Essex,  Howbridge,  Hoo- 

bregge  in,  462. 
North,     Northwytham,    co. 

Lincoln,  fee  in.  191,  192. 
Withcall,  co.  Lincoln,  manor  of ,  L63. 

Wt.   11824 


INDEX.  768 

Withcall.  Walter  de,  of  Barlings.  412. 

Withersfield,  Wetheriafeld.W] 
feld  [oo.  Buffolk],  : 

advowaon  of,  108,  201. 

manor  of,    108,   201. 

Withereston,  William.  I<i5. 

Withman.     See  \\  ightman. 

Witley.  Great,  Wytteleye,  co.  Wor- 
cester, manor  of,  383. 

Witnesham,  Wyttnesham,  co.  Suf- 
folk, manor  of,  305. 

Witney.  Wytteneye  [oo.  Oxford],  72. 

Witteneye,  John,  chaplain,  207." 

, of  Oxfordshire,  106. 

Robert,  knight  of  the  shiro 

of  Hereford,  536. 

Wittenham,  Whitenham,  Wvton- 
ham,  co.  Berks.  196,  222. 

Lorn;,  Westwyttenham,  co. 

Berks,    350. 

deed  dated  at.  350. 

Witton,  Wytton  [in  Droitw  ich],  co. 
Worcester,  fee  in,  493. 

Wiveliscombe,  Wivelescombe,  Wy- 
velescombe,  co.  Somerset,  61. 

Wiveton,  Wyveton  [co.  Norfolk], 
collectors  of  subsidy  in  port 
of,  30. 

,  fishers  of,  30. 

Wivill,  Robert,  bishop  of  Salisbury, 
153. 

Wix,  Wike,  Wykea,  co.  Essex,  fee  in, 
24. 

,  manor  of,  40,  41. 

,    .  .  .  .,   keeper  of,  40,  41. 

woad,  441.  442. 
Woberneford.     See  Oburnford. 
Woburn,    Wouborne    [co.    Bedford], 

abbot  of,  .'{hi  i. 
Wode,  John,  John  atte,  John  de  la, 

17::. 
fanner   of    Kit'tsgate 

hundred.  276. 

, knight,   258.    4C»4. 

knighl  of  the  shiro  of 

Worcester.  42!». 

,  Peter  atte,  74,  111.245. 

Robert  atte,  45. 

William  atte.   of   Berkshire, 

471. 
Wodecombe.     Set   Butcombe, 
Wodecote.     Set    Woodcote. 
Wodeford.     St  i    \\  oodford. 
Wodeford,    Richard    da,    panon   of 

Lubenham,  228. 
Wodehalle.      S,<     Wood     Hall. 
Wodeham,      Wodehanw  ater. 

\\  oodham. 
\\  odehous,  Wodhou  e,  John,  cham- 

h.  ll.lill    ol    Che    !.  I       |o7.     yi, 

I  it     f» 


GENERAL     I\l»i:\ 


W".v,l,»l)oilS COttt. 

Willi  un.   442. 

Bheriff  of  London,  259. 

\\  .. i.  land.   Walter  de,   fishmonger, 

\\  demane.     8*     Wodman. 

demeresthora.      Set     Woodman 

Bterne. 
lenorton,    Roger   de,    rector   of 

Woderoue,  John,  65,  51  3. 

dark,  361. 

of  Yorkshire,  18,  49. 

Wodeaden.     >'<•  Waddeedon. 
Wodeetok   Wodatoke,    Eleanor   (de 

Bohun)  «  i  Thomas  de, 

the  king's  bozi    623. 
Thomas  <1<-  [the  king's  son], 

constable    of    England,    -Il'i;. 

467. 
Leetoke.     St  t  Woodstock 
Wod.  ton.  William  son  of  Bartholo- 
mew atte,  de  la,  of  Acton.  109, 
51. 
Wodeward,    John    lo.    of     Raskelf, 

119. 

Thomas,  of  Suffolk.  439. 

Wodhall,  Thomas  de    59. 
Wodham,  Edward  de.  39. 
WodhilL     See  Wodhulle. 
Wodhouse.     See  Wodehous. 
Wodhull.     .See  Odell. 
Wodhulle,  Wodhill.  Wodhull,  Jolm 

de,  clerk    344. 

Nicholas  de,  352,  353. 

knight,  426. 

William.    William    de,    352, 

353.  426,  531. 
Wodman.  Wodemane,  Stephen,  216. 

Thomas  de,  532. 

Wodmere-thorn.       See     Woodman- 

sterne. 
Wodstoke.     See   Wodestok. 
Wogan,  John,  191,  192. 

Matthias,   191,   192. 

Wokefeld.     See  Oakfield. 
Woke.seye.     See  Oaksey. 
Wokyndon.     See  Ockendon. 
Wolaston.     See  Wollaston. 
Wolaston,  William  de,  190. 
Wolaych.     See  Woolwich. 
Wold    fin    Yardley    Hastings],    co. 

Northampton,  fee  in,  190. 
Woldham.     See  Wouldham. 
Wolf,  Wooff,  Wilham,  538,  539. 

,   .  .  .  . ,  of  Coventry,  525. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  of  Derbyshire,   525. 

WoHencote,    Thomas,    son   of    Joan 

de      sister     of     Richard     de 

Braundeston,    142. 


WoKreston,      Wolferaton,      Bogor, 

l:      . -r  do.  lo3.  200,  201,  354- 
356,    151. 

eeoheator  in  Essex,  34, 

134. 

Wolfreton,  Jolm  do.  476. 

Wolfurton,  John  de,  bachelor  in  theo- 
logy, friar  preacher,  402. 

Wollaston,  Wolaston,  co.  Northamp- 
ton, feo  in,  190. 

Wollewyche.     See  Woolwich. 

Wollcy.      Nee  Woolloy. 

Wollore,  David  de,  dork,  64. 

Wolxnan,  Robert,  clerk,  441. 

Wolmere.     See  Woolmer. 

Wolmere    Rog  r,  '_>14.  215. 

Wolryk,  Stephen,  of  Scott ow,  555. 

Wolscroue,  John,  chaplain,  251. 

Wolsham.     See  Walsh  am. 

Wolterton,  John  dr,  clerk,  247. 

,    parson    of    Harplv, 

234. 

Wolton.     See  Walton. 

Wolvercote,  co.  Oxford,  Godstow 
abbey  in,  253. 

Wolveston.     See  Woolesdon. 

Wolwich.  co.  E:-sox.  fee  in,  22. 

Wolwych.     See  Woolwich. 

Wombe,  John,  of  Hempstead,  450. 

,  Thomas,  195. 

Wombwell,  W<  mb  well,  Hugh  de, 
431,  513. 

Woodcote,  Wodecote  [in  Bedding- 
ton],  co.  Surrey,  highway  at, 
218. 

Woodford  (by  Thrapston),  Wodeford 
[co.  Northampton],  360. 

co.  Wilts,  Heale,  la  Hyle  in, 

260. 

Wood  Hall,  Wodehalle  in  Arkesden, 
co.  Eksox,  manor  of,  169. 

Woodham        Walter,        Wodeham, 
Wrodehamwater,       Wodeham 
Wauter,    co.    Essex,    lord   of. 
See  Fitz  Walter,  Walter. 
,  manor  of,  71,  267. 

Woodmansterne,     Wodemeresthorn, 
Wodmeresthorn,     co.  Surrey, 
111. 
,  manor  of,  521. 

Woodstock,  Wodestoke  [in  Ambles- 
ton,  co.   Pembroke],   506. 

Wooff.     See  Wolf. 

wool,  50,  57,  88,  126,  170,  364,  371, 
378,  379,  383,  384,  404,  405, 
441,  442,  498. 

,  arrest  of,  252,  253. 

,  export  of,  regulation  of,  251. 

,  sealing  of,  41. 

,  staples  of,  in  Ireland,  388. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


771 


wool — cont. 

taxation  of,  41,  49,  51,  1(57. 

379,  381.  382,  508. 
Woolesdon,    Wolveston    [in    Pound- 
stock],  co.  Cornwall.   429. 
Woolley,    W'ollev    [in    Morton,    co. 

Derby].  226. 

,  Wallee,  co.  Huntingdon,  ">-">2. 

Woolmer,  Wohnere  forest  [co. Hants], 

85,  86. 
Woolwich,    Wolaych,    Wollewyohe, 

Wolwych  [co.  Kent],  115. 

,  manor  of,  36. 

,  Southall  in,  107,  201. 

Cf.  Wolwich. 

Wootton,  Wotton,  co.  Northampton, 

advowson  of,  192. 

,  .  .  .  .,  fee  in,    189. 

,  .  .  .  .,  manor  of,  499. 

Rivers,  Wotton  Ryvers,    co. 

Wilts,  manor  of,  295. 
Worcester,     Wircestre,      Worcestro, 

archdeacon    of.     See    Blaun- 

chard,  John. 

,  bailiffs  of,   160. 

,  bishop  of.     See  Lenne,  Wil- 
liam   de ;     Thoresby,    John; 

Wakefield,  Henry. 
,  bishopric     of,     guardian,    of 

spiritualities  of,  65. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  ....  of     temporalities 

of,  302. 

,  . .  . .,  vacancy  of,  160. 

,  cathedral  church  of,  128. 

,  deeds,  etc.  dated  at,  270. 

,  election  of  coroner  of,  38. 

,  farm  of,  160. 

,     piior     of,      guardian       of 

spirituality  of  bishopric,  16o. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  official  in  city  and  dio- 
cese, diuing  vacancy  of  see, 

269,  27i). 
,  St.    Swithin,    St.    Swythun, 

parson      of.        See      \.  i 

William. 

,  skinners  of,  242. 

Worcester,  county  of,  98,  257,  362, 

450,   319,   529. 

,  coroners  of,  48. 

escheators  in.     See   Brugge, 

Edmund       atte;         Bru 

Thomas  de;  I  [ambury,  Jo]  n  i 

Ryhale,   Richard. 
guardians  of  the  peace  and 

justices  o)    over  and    terminer 

in,  73.  346. 
,  knights  of  the.  shiro  of,  429, 

536. 
sheriff  of,  38,  48,  242,  285, 

346. 


\\  orcester,  county  of — cunt. 

,  taxation  in,   522. 

Wordwell,     Wreteuell,     co.     Suffolk, 

manor  of,  393. 
Worfton,  William,  236,  5 
Workington,     \\  erkyngton,     W'yrk- 

yngton     [co.     Cumberland], 

parsons     of.  Iskeby, 

Richard  ;     Tanfeld,    William 

de. 
Worldham,  East,  Est*  orldeham,  co. 

Hants,   87,   88. 
,  deeds  dated  at,  85,  80,   87, 

88. 

,  manor  of,  87,  88. 

,  park  of,  85,  86. 

Worlington,    Wridlyngton,   co.    Suf- 
folk, manor  of,  187,  188. 
Worlingworth,    Wirlyngworth,     co. 

Suffolk,  manor  of,  504. 
Wormegay,  Wyrmegeye,  oo.  Norfolk, 

lord  of.     See  Bardolf,  William. 
Wornienhalo,  Thomas  do,  10~>. 
Worplesdon  [co.  Surrey],  lo  Naldro 

in,  73. 
Worsall,  W  vrkesalle,  co.York,  fee  in, 

500. 
Worsle.     See  Warestey. 
Worstede,  William,  471,  515. 
Worth  Matravers,   Worths  in  Pur- 

byk,    co.    Dorset,    manor    of, 

184. 
Worthe,  John,  John  do,  knight,  101, 

228,  324,  320,  327,  357. 

,   ....  son  ot  William  de,  493. 

.Thomas,    M.A.,    ox    Oxford, 

47ti. 

Gf.  Wroth. 

W'orton  in  Isleworth  [co.  Middlesex], 

213,  216. 

lane,  Wortynlane,  216. 

places  named  in,  21  .">. 

W Ortoji   John,  21  7. 
Wbtesdon.     See  Waddesdon, 
Wotton    under    Edge.    Wotton    [co. 

Gloucester],     lady    of. 

Berkele,    Katharine  de. 

See  Wootton. 

Wotton,  .loan  w  ne  oi  Robert  de,  538. 
lohn  father  of  W  illiam  <le, 

344. 
Lawrence    de,    searcher    at 

Grimsby,  14. 
Peter,    citizen    of    London, 

211. 

William.    William    de.    mer- 
chant .  13. 

son  oi  Robert  d 

woolmonger,   of    Lon- 
don, 313,  344. 


772 


CJEXKRAL     !\I>K\ 


\\  ouborne.     S<  i     Woburn. 
Wbubourae,       w  ouborne,      Robert 

de,  teller  of  the  receipt  of  t he 

exchequer,  1 80,  161. 
\\  ouldhazn,     Woldham,   oo.     Kent, 

.Ml. 

deed  dated  at .  5  1 1 . 

Wouterman,    James,    merchant    of 

Bruges,  12. 
Woxindon.     >'•  ■  Uxendon. 
\\  o.  Fork,  Eessle,  Hesj  II  in, 

180. 
\\'i.i_'i>> .  Robert  de,  BOO. 

stelyngworthe,  Wrastlyngw  orth. 
Wrestlingworth. 
Wratting,  West,  Westwrottyng,   co. 

Cambridge,  3  13. 
Wrauby,  Wraweby,  John,  John  de, 

829. 

of  Barton,  1 15. 

Wrenstede.     Set    Frinstead. 
Wrestlingworth,   Wrastelyngworthe, 

Wrastlyngworth,  co.  Bedford, 

manor  of,   1 9 :?. 

WretewelL     See   Wordwell. 
Wretham,    East,    Estwrotham,    co. 
Norfolk,  234. 

West,     Westwrotham,     co. 

Norfolk,  2:54. 
Wridryngton.     See  Worlington. 
Write  ic  W'ritelle.     See  Writtlo. 
writs  : — 

cui  in  vita,  143. 

de  annuo  redditu,  542. 

dedimus  potestatem,  77,  94,  118, 

223,  226,  229,  237,  244,  250, 

255,  271,  280,  332,  355,  360, 

436,  460,  511,  516,  530,  533. 

de  expensis,  373,  384,  400,  428- 

4:5o.  535-537. 
de  intendendo,  5,  7,  156,  160,  395, 

414,  423,  496,  499. 
de  judicio,  62,  67,  69,  70,  71,  78, 
81,  88,  90,  93,  95,  96,  99,  112, 
113,    198-200,    207-210,    212, 
217,  218,  235,  242,  247,  256, 
273,  274,  278,  280,  283,  284, 
288,  332,  336,  339,  342,  344, 
34.-),  347,  365,  424,  432,  438, 
441,  442,  460,  465,  471,  523- 
.  528,  534,  543,  545,  547. 
de  non  introtnittendo,  490. 
de  non  procedendo,  177. 
de  warantia  dierum,  558-561. 
nisi    prii'.s,    30,    131,    276,    312, 

316,319,  321,  374. 
of  aid,   3  1. 
of  entry,  196. 
of  error,  9,  538. 


\\  III  -         ■"/(/. 

of  exigents,  88,  90,  92,  95,  209, 
273.  284,  329,  333.  841,  346 
::i  527,  533. 

of  j  il.  131. 

cit  privy  seal,  131,  504. 

of  right,  548. 

plea   without    the   kind's.    377. 

quart  imp  dit,  1  .~>2. 

scire  facias,  324,  326,  353,  401, 

495. 
.sn/ti  reedeas,  1<>.  100. 
under  great    eal  of  Ireland,  373. 
under  tin-  seal  of  the  chancery 

of   Pembroke,  3so. 
Writtle,   Writele,   Writelle,   Writyll, 

co.  Essex,  183,  463. 

,  deed  dated  at,  237. 

,  Houso   of    the   Holy    Spirit, 

master  of,  ■'>12. 
,  park     of,     keeper     of.     See 

Culvere,  John. 

,  Moor  Hall,  Morehalle  in,  235. 

Wrockwardine,  co.  Salop,  Orloton  in, 

558 
Wroth,  John,  92,  216,  259. 
,  the   younger,    82,    83, 

107,133,198,202,250. 

Cf.  Worth. 

Wroxton,  Wroxston,  co.  Oxford,  455, 

461. 

,  Balscote  in,  455,  461. 

Wryght,  Richard  son  of  Robert  le, 

of  Walton  le  Dale,  126. 
Wuthton.     See  Warkton. 
Wybbenham.     See  Wibbenhara. 
Wycehurst,  William,  81. 
Wrych.     See  Droitwich. 
Wyche.     See  Wiche. 
Wychingham,  Wychyngham.       See 

Wichyngham. 
Wyclyf,  John,  of  Leicestershire,  94. 
Wycombe,  Higli  [co.   Buckingham], 

burgesses   of,   in  parliament, 

430. 
Wydeford,  John,  John  de,  27. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  vendor  of  underwood 

in  Grovely  forest,  141. 
Wydeville.     See    Wideville. 
Wyersdale,     Nether,    Wiresdale     [in 

Garstang],      co.       Lancaster, 

manor  of,  144. 
Wygbergh,  Wygberwe,  Wyggeberwe. 

See  Wigborough. 
Wyghhale.     See  Wighill. 
Wyglit,    John,    of    Kingston,    king's 

serjeant,  251. 

,  Walter,  258. 

Wyghtman.     See  Wightman. 
Wygton.     See  Wigton. 


GENERAL     IXDK.X 


773 


Wygynhale.     See  WiggenhalL 
Wyhum,  William  de,  coroner  of  co. 

Lincoln,  161. 
Wyke.     See  Wick,  \\  Lke. 
Wykeham,  Wykham,  Manser  son  of 

Robert  in,  510. 

,  Richard,  495,  555. 

,  William  de,  bishop  of  Win- 
chester,   67,    236,    244,    249, 

282,  285,  293,  317,  425,  504. 
,....,    alleged     extor- 
tions by,  422,  423. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  Great  stone  for, 

59. 
Wykelee.     See  Weekley. 
Wykemere,  Adam  de,  clerk,  9. 
Wykerslay,    Thomas    de,    of    York- 

sliire,  326. 
Wykes.     See  Wicken,  Wix. 
Wykford.     See  Wickford. 
Wykham.     See     Wickham,     Wyke- 

ham. 
Wyklond  [near  Walton  on  the  Hill  ?], 

co.  Surrey,  37o. 
Wrykyngeston.     See   Wigston. 
Wylburgham.     See   Wilbraham. 
Wylde.     See  Wilde. 
Wyllughby.      See  Willoughby,  Wil- 

ughby. 
Wylly,  Robert,  143. 

Cf.  Wyly. 

Wylmundelee.     See  Wymondley. 
Wylot,  Margaret  (Dnrant)  daughter 

of  John  son  of  John,  305. 
Wyloughby.     See  Wilughby. 
Wylton.     See  W'ilton. 
Wylughby.     See  Wilughby. 
Wyly,  John,  459. 

Cf.  Wylly. 

Wylye,  Wyly,  co.  Wilts,  323. 

See  Willian. 

Wylynghale.     See    Willingalo. 
Wylyngham.      See  Willyngham. 
Wymbisch,    Wymbissh.     See   Wim- 

bish. 
Wymbisch,  John  de,  2 ■">(>. 
Wymbome.     See  Wimborne. 
Wymington,  W'ymyngton,  Wymyn- 

ton  [co.   Bedford],   344,   352, 

353,  426. 
Wymondeham.      See  Wymondhaiu. 
Wymonde.swolde.  I  [ugh  do,  clerk,284. 

,  John  do.  chaplain,  611. 

Wymondliam.     Wymondeham    [co. 

Norfolk],  prior  <>f.  'ill. 
Wymondham.     See  Wymundham. 
Wymondley.    Wylmundelee,    Great, 

co.  Hertford,  manor  of,   1~>7. 
Wylmundelee,     Little,     co. 

Hertford,  manor  of,  157. 


\\  \  moundale,  Christina,  -*'<'<. 
Wympel,  Wympol       v      Wimpole. 
Wympton,  John  de,  L76. 
Wymundham,  Wymondham,  Amery, 

Aini't  \  de,  336,  348. 
William    de.    parson    ot     St. 

.Mary  If  Strand,  London,  302* 
Wymyngton,  Wymynton.    See  Wy- 
mington. 
Wymynton,  John,  344. 

Cf.  Curteys. 

Wynandermer.     See  Windermere. 
Wyncelade,  Stephen,  of  Gloucester- 

Bhire,  282. 
Wyncham,  John,  clerk,  461. 
Wynchelse.     See  Winchelsea. 
Wynchestre,  Wintonea,  Jolin,  308. 

, of   London,   441. 

Robert  de,  510. 

,  Thomas,  51 1 . 

Wynde,  William.  332. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  London,  461. 

Wyndesore.     See  Windsor. 
Wvndesore,    John,    John    de,    275, 

276. 

,  .  .  .  .,  the  younger,  61. 

Miles   son  of   James   son  of 

Richard  de,  38. 

,  Richard.    Richard  de,   38. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  burgess  of  Hertford  in 

parliament,  430. 
,  Robert  de,  prior  of  Merton, 

66. 

,  William  de.  487. 

, governor  and  guardian 

of  Ireland,  5.  9.   10,  13.  46, 

130,  131,  188,  202,  295,  469. 

,  .  .  .  .,  knight.  443. 

, the    king's    lieutenant 

in  Ireland,  indictment  of,  for 

extortion.   368. 
Wyne,  Robert,  42.  43. 

,  Thomas,  chaplain,  42.  43. 

Wynel,  William.  33.1. 
Wynepol.      -s'"  Wimpole. 
Wyneriche,  John,  525. 
Wyneslowe,  Wynselowe,  John.  223. 
, citizen  oi  London,  116, 

117. 
Of   I  [unsdon,  the  elder, 

■J. "»7. 
the  father.  257. 

the  j  ounger,  267. 

.Mary  wife  <>t  John,  1 16,  117, 

223. 
Wynewyk,  Richard  de.  462. 
Wynferthyng.     >■  i  ^^  Infarthii 
Wynford.     Set  \\  inford. 
Wynfred.     8«  Winfrith. 
Wyngefeld      8#    Wingfleld, 


74 


GENERAL     tNDEX. 


\\  3  V\         M'lil,    \\  \  nggofald, 

mor    \^  ife    <>i     John    » 1 1 ■ . 
knight,  159,   160. 

Thomas  <!<•.  451 . 

William,  William  <l<\  knight, 

;»l  l.  ;>37  539. 

knight  of  the  shire  <>i 

Suffolk,   t. 
. ...     Cf.   Wynkefeld. 
\\  \  nhale.     St '   \\  innall. 
Wynkefeld,  Thomas,  24. 

Cf.   Wyngefeld. 

Wynneferthyng,    Richard  de,  clerk, 

503. 
\\"\  nnegolde,  John,  4:!~>. 
Wynneebury,  Henry  de,  123. 
Wynnahuret,  John,  chaplain,  141. 
\\  \  npole.     Si '  \\  impole. 
Wynselowi  Wyneslowe. 

Wynswyk.     See  Winwick. 
Wynter.     Set  Winter. 
Wynterborne,     Wynterbourne.     See 

Winterbourne. 
Wyntereslewe.     Set   Winterslow. 
Wynterflode,  Richard,  246. 
Wynterfold.     See  Winterfold. 
Wynterahell     by     Billericay      [else- 

tohere   Windhill   in   Ramsden 

Cray],  co.  Essex,  136. 
Wynterton,   John  de.   merchant  of 

Norwich,  171,  172. 

Thomas  <U>,  clerk,  90. 

William  do.  clerk,  171. 

Wynteworth.     See  Wyntworth. 
Wyntre.     See  Winter. 
Wyntryngham.     See  Winteringham, 

Wintringham. 
Wyntworth.  Wynteworth,  John  de, 

451. 
William    de,    of    Yorkshire, 

248. 
Wyot,  John,  357. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  under    bailiff    of    the 

honour  of  Rayleigh,  3. 

,  Walter,  clerk,  246,  247. 

Wyrkesalle.     See    Worsall. 
Wyrkyngton.     See  Workington. 
Wyrmegeye.     See  Wormegay. 
Wysall.  Wvsowe   [co.   Nottingham], 

436. 
Wysdom,  Wysdam,  Thomas,  burgess 

of  Wilton  in  parliament,  537. 
,  .  .  .  . ,  vendor     of     wood    in 

Grovely  forest,  141. 
Wysebeche.     See  Wisebech. 
Wyseman,  Wysman,  Hamon,  332. 

,  William,  224. 

Wyset.     See  Wisset. 
Wysman.     See  Wyseman. 
Wysowe.     See  Wysall. 


\\  \  stowi      Si  i  Weetow. 

Wystowe,  NTicholas  de,  231. 

\\  \  tecombe,  Walter,  87. 

\\  >  tenham.     St      w  it  tenham. 

\\  \  bher,  William,  <>t  I  torchester,  206, 

Wytheresfeld.     See  Withersfield. 

\\  ythermerssh,  Richard,   127.  431. 

Wythornwyk,  John,  John  de,  72. 

clerk,  463,  465. 

parson  of  FUIingham, 

520. 
Wythyfeld,  Abel  de,  23. 
Wyttele,  Nicholas,  the  lung's  hunter, 

24S. 
Wytteleye.     See  Witloy. 
Wytteneye.     See  Witney. 
Wyttnesham.     See  Witnosham. 
\\  \  tton.     See  Wit  ton. 
Wyvelescombe.     See  \\ 'ivoliscombe. 
Wyvelyngham.     See  Willingham. 
\\  yveton.     See  Wiveton. 


Xaintez.     See  Saintes. 


Yardley,   Yerdlee   [in  Thaxted,   co. 

Essex],  259. 

,  Yerdele  [co.  Worcester],  346. 

Gobion,  Yardele  Gobion,  co. 

Northampton,  419. 
,  farmer  of.      See  Ipre, 

John  de. 

,  miU  at,  419. 

,  Moorend,    Morende  in, 

418,  419. 
Hastings,   Gerdeley,  Yerdele, 

co.  Northampton,  35. 

,  advowson  of,   192. 

,  letters  close   dated  at, 

154,  246. 

,  Wold  in,  190. 

Yarmouth,  Great,  Great  Jernemouth 

[co.  Norfolk],  346,  382,  431, 

438,  530. 
,  bailiffs  of,   8,   11,   119,   365 

383,  415,  432. 


GENERAL    INDEX. 


778 


Yarmouth,  Great — conl. 

,  burgesses  of,  434. 

,  disturbances  in,  415. 

,  fair  at,  433,  434. 

,  farm  of,  8. 

,  liberties  of,  432,  434. 

,  port  of,  49,  379,  382,  384. 

, collectors   of    customs 

and  subsidies  in,  41,  119,  170, 

365,  383. 
,  . . . . ,  keepers  of  passage  in, 

63,    68. 
,  protection  of  poor  men  of, 

470,  471. 
,  Little,    Westgernemuth,    co. 

Suffolk.  246. 
Yarnemouth,  John,  shipmaster,  491. 
Yate,  John  atte,  burgess  of  Bridg- 
north  in   parliament,    430. 

,  .  .  .  .,  of  Gloucestershire,  365. 

, of  Wivelscombe,  61. 

,  William  atte,  son  of  Amabel 

daughter    of    Hugh    Covter, 

501. 
Yauworth.  Thomas,  534. 
Yaxley,  Jakesley  [co.  Huntingdon], 

deed  dated  at,  246. 
Yeaveley,   Yiuleye   [in   Shirley],   co. 

Derby,  manor  of,  317. 
Yeddyng,  William  do,  116. 

Cf.  Gedyn^. 

Yellyng.     See  Ealing. 

Yelvertoft,  co.  Northampton,  manor 

of,   306. 
Yenesfeld.     See   Ensfield. 
Yeovil,  Yevele  [co.  Somerset],  Wind- 
ham Street  ?  Quydamstret  in, 

79. 

,  vicar  of.     See  Bays,  Robert. 

Yerdele.     See  Yardley. 

Yerdelee,  John,  514. 

Yerdlee.     See  Yardley. 

Yevelchestre.     See  Ilchester. 

Yevele.     See  Yeovil. 

Yevele,    Henry,    mason,    citizen    of 

London,   59. 

,  John  de,   79. 

Yevyndon,    John    de,    verderer    of 

Windsor  forest,    137. 
Yinge,  John,  439. 
Ying  Hospitall.     See  Fryerning. 
Yiuleye.     See  Yeaveley. 
Ynys-yr-vsuallon,    Enysualgoun    [in 

Whitchurch,  co.  Olamorgan], 

306. 
Yonge.     See  Younjz. 
York  [co.  York],   60,  310,   33!),  340. 

400,  462,  464,  627. 
archbishop  <>f.     See  Neville, 

Alexander  ;  Thorcsby,  John. 


York — cont. 

,  archbishopric  of,  voidano  <>f, 

65,  399. 

bii  tenure  in.  (in. 

castle,      janitors     of.       See 

Botellerie,   Alexander  de   hi  ; 

Sutton.  Richard  de. 
,  change  at.  "><». 

,  citizens  of.   31  li.  433. 

,  commonalty  of,  4.'!.'!. 

,  Coney  Street,  Convngstrette 

in,  60. 

,  draper  of,   522. 

,  puardians  of   the  peace  in, 

5."),"). 
,  Holy  Cross  church,  chantry 

in,  60. 
,  Holy  Trinity   priory,   monk 

of.     See  Ajidriaco,   John  de. 

,  justices  at.  80. 

,  ....  of  over  and  terminer  in, 

555. 

to  deliver  gaol  of,  339. 

,  liberties  of.  3 Hi. 

,  mayor     of.       See     Hornby, 

Ralph  de  ;    Santon,  John  do. 

merchants  of,  339,  419,  478. 

,  Ousegate  in,  60. 

,  prison  at,  233. 

,  province  of,  clergy  of,  399. 

, ,  convocation    of, 

348.  469. 
,      St.      Leonard's     hospital, 

master    of.       See    Ravenser, 

Richard  de. 
,  St.  Mary's  abbev,  abbot  of 

16. 
,  St.  Peter's  church,  chapter 

of,  65,  399. 
,  .  . .  . ,  convocation  of  clergy 

at,  348,  469. 
,  liberties  of  tenants  of, 

391. 
, treasurer  of.     See  Clif- 
ford. John  de. 
York,  county  of.  79.  89,  95,  102,  106, 

212,  226.  267,   323.   342.  426, 

4(i2.  .US.  619,  64  f.  652. 
.coroners  of,  3,  5,   310,  371, 

423.  497. 
East      Riding,     Estrithing, 

Estrything  of,  guardians  of  the 

the  peace  and  justices  in,  465, 
.-,.-..1. 

escheatora  in.      See 

John :     Culwen,    Gilbert  de ; 
Ergum,    William :     Scothers- 

kell .  John  de  ;   Say  ville,  John  ; 
\  ale,  W  llliam  de  la. 

issues  of. 


HENERAL     INI'KX. 


York,  ivunly  of-  < 

justioes  in  eg  re  in, 

to    pit  B8H  8    the    pence 

in.  833. 

knights  of  the  shire  of, 

15. 
North  Ri    •       North  Trith- 

iiiL:  of,  guardians  of  the  peace 

in.  6 

al  eriff  of,  3,  5,  44.  45,  68,  57, 

1 19,   L64,  209,  256,  310- 

312,  339,  371,  390,  423,  424, 

443,  i  M.  497,  526,  527. 

taxation  in,   522. 

uttermost  parte  of,  423. 

West    Riding,    Westrithing, 

\\  i  atrithyng,  guardians  of  the 

I  eaoe  in,  556. 
justices  of  oj  ei 

and  terminer  and  arrayers  of 

man  at  anas  in.  300. 
York.  JoJm.  brewer,  563,  566. 

of  London,  99,  105. 

Robert  de,  217. 

William  de,  i  squire,  445. 

Youghal.    Lb    Youghull    fco.    Cork, 

Ireland],   7»». 

,  advowson  of,   70. 

Young,  Yonge,  Emma,  224. 
Hugh     le,     chamberlain     of 

South   Wales,   406,   421. 
Philip,  ]  ep]  i  rer,  of  London, 

257. 

,  Robert,  of  Wittenham,  196. 

Thomas,     Thomas    le,    244, 

277,  335,  340,  522. 
,  Walter.  Walter  le,  149,  224. 


Young    eont. 

\\  illiam,   Ixayward   of  Ash- 

ford,  47. 
Ystrad-Owen,  oo.  Glamorgan,  Tala- 

fan,  Talvan  in,  308. 
Ystvi  l\  i .     fif<  i  <  lysterlow. 
Yutte,  .1  < >;t n  w  ife  of  John,  208. 
John.   Of   Wendy.  208. 

Ywerne.     See  [werne. 


Zeeland,  Seland  [Holland],  384.  402. 
Zierickzee,  Sen'/,  in  Seland  [Holland, 

prov.  Zeeland],  merchants  of, 

402. 
Zouche,  Souehe,  Zucho,  Hugh  la,  le, 

318. 
, ,  knight,  116,  117,  228, 

360. 
lord   of    Ashby  de   la 

Zouche,  knight,  226. 

,  Richard  la,  14,  482,  483. 

,  William  la,  of  Harringworth, 

knight,   519. 

, ,  the  elder,  190. 

,  .  .  .  . ,  the    younger,    knight, 

189. 
Zymme,  John,  510. 

,  Robert,  510. 

Cf.  Symme. 


CATALOGUE 

(Revised  to   1st  January,   1013) 


OF 


ENGLISH,    SCOTTISH,    AND    IRISH    RECORD 

PUBLICATIONS, 

REPORTS     OF    THE     HISTORICAL    MANUSCRIPTS 

COMMISSION, 

AND 

ANNUAL  REPORTS  OF  THE  DEPUTY  KEEPERS 
OF  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS,  ENGLAND  AND 

IRELAND, 


Printed  for 

HIS  MAJESTY'S  STATIONERY  OFFICE, 


And  to  be  purchased, 

Either  directly  or  through  any  Bookseller,  from 

WYMAN    and    SONS,    Ltd.,    Fetter   Lane,    E.C., 

and  32,  Abingdon  Street,  Westminster,  S.W., 

and  54,  St.  Mary  Street,  Cardiff  ;  or 

H.M.   STATIONERY   OFFICE  (Scottish  Branch), 

23,  Forth  Street,  Edinburgh  ;   or 

E.    PONSONBY,  Ltd.,    116,   Grafton  Street,   Dublin  ; 

or  from  the  Agencies  in  the  British  Colonics  and  Dependencies, 

the  United  States  of  America,  the  Continenl  of  Europe  and  Abroad  of 

T.  FISHER  UNWIN,  LONDON,   W.C. 


CONTENTS 


Page 


- 


Calendars  of  State   Papers,   &c 3 

Acts  of  the  Privy  Council           8 

Italic  Record  Office,  Lists  adjd  Indexes      10 

Chronicles  and  Memorials  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland 

during  the  middle  ages        12 

Publications  of  the  Record  Commissioners,  &c.          . .      . .  20 

Reports  on  the  Utrecht  Psalter      21 

Works   Published  in  Photozincography           22 

Historical  Manuscripts  Commission  Reports 24 

Reports  of  the  Deputy  Keeper  of  the  Public  Records       . .  31 

Scottish  Record  Publications       35 

I  rish   Record   Publications          36 

Reports   of   the  Deputy   Keeper  of  the   Public  Records, 

Ireland           37 


CALENDARS    OF   STATE    PAPERS.    &<■. 


[Imperial  8vo.,  cloth. 


Price  15s.  each  Volume  or  Part,  except  where 
otherwise  stated.] 


Subsequent  to  recommendations  of  Committees  of  the  House  of 
Commons  in  1800  and  1836,  the  Master  of  the  Rolls,  in  1865,  stated  to 
the  Lords  of  the  Treasury  that  although  "  the  Records,  State  Tapers, 
"  and  Documents  in  his  charge  constitute  the  most  complete  and 
"perfect  series  of  their  kind  in  the  civilized  world,  and  although 
"  they  are  of  the  greatest  value  in  a  historical  and  constitutional  point 
"  of  view,  yet  they  are  comparatively  useless  to  the  public  from  the 
"  want  of  proper  Calendars  and  Indexes."  Whereupon  their  Lord- 
ships assented  to  the  necessity  of  having  Calendars  prepared,  and 
empowered  the  Master  of  the  Rolls  to  take  such  steps  as  might  bo 
necessary  for  this  purpose. 

The  following  Works  have  been  already  published  in  this  Series  : — 

Calendarium  Genealogicum  ;  for  the  reigns  of  Henry  III.  and 
Edward  I.  Edited  by  C.  Roberts.  2  Vols.  1865.  (Vol.  2  Out 
of  Print.) 

Syllabus,  in  English  of  Rymer's  Fosdera.  By  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy, 
D.C.L.  1869-1885.  Vol.  I.— 1066-1377.  Vol.  II.— 1377-1654. 
(Vols.    1   and  2   Out  of    Print.)     Vol.  III.,  Appendix  and  Index. 

Descriptive  Catalogue  of  Ancient  Deeds,  preserved  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.      1890-1906.     Vols.  I.,  II.,  III.,  IV.  and  V. 

Calendar  of  the  Fixe  Rolls.  1911-1912. 

Vol.      I.— Edward    I.  1272-1 31 >7. 

Vol.    II.— Edward  II.  1307-1319. 

Vol.  III.— Edward  II.  1319-1327. 

Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls.     1891-1913. 


Henry  III. 

Vol.  I.  (Latin  text). — 

1216-1225. 
Vol.   11.  (Latin  text). — 
1225-1232. 
Edward  I. 

I.— 1272-1281. 
II.— 1281-1292. 
II 
I.— 1307-1313. 
II.— 1313-1317. 
Vol.  III.— 1317-1321. 
Edward  III. 

I.— 1327-1330. 

II.— 1330-1334. 

Vol.  III.— 1334-1338. 

Vol.    IV.— 1338-1340. 

V._ 1340-1343. 

VI.— 1343-1345. 

VII.— 1345-1348. 


Vol. 

Vol. 

Edward 

Vol. 
Vol. 


Vol. 

Vol. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


Vol. 
Vol. 

Vol. 
Vol. 


III.- 

IV.- 

V.- 


III. 
IV. 

IV. 
V. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


Vol.  VIIT. 
Vol.  IX, 
Vol.  X. 
Vol.  XI.- 
Vol.  XII.- 
Vol.  XI II.- 


-1232-1247- 
-1247-1258 
-1258-1266. 


-1292-1301. 
-1301-1307. 

-1321-1324. 
1324-1327. 


-1348-1350. 
-1350-1354. 
-1354-1358. 
-1358-1361. 
-1361-1364. 
1364-1367. 


Richard  II. 
Vol.  I.- 
Vol.     II.- 

Vol.    III. 
Henry     IV. 

Vol.         [.- 
Vol.     TL 
Henry  V. 

Vol.       I 
Henry     VT. 
Vol.       I 
Vol.     II. 
VoL  HI. 
Edward  IV.- 
Edward  IV., 
Edward  IV., 

\H.  183.-1,1 -'5-— 1/13. 


1377-1381. 
-1381-1385. 

1385-1389. 

-1399-1401. 
-1401-1406. 

1413-1  116. 

—1422-1429. 

—  1429-1  136. 

—  1436-1  HI. 
-1461-1467. 

Ill    MtV     VI.- 

Edward  V. 

— ll.T.  Ltd. 


Vol.  IV.— 1388-1392. 

Vol.  V.— 1391-1396. 

Vol.  VL-    1396-1399 

Vol.  m.— 1405-1408. 

Vol  IV.-  1408-1413. 

Vol.  N.  L416-]  122. 

Vol.  IV.— 14  11  l  in;. 

Y,,l  \        L446-1  152. 

Vol  VI.— 1462-1461. 


1  li. 7-1477. 

Richard  III.     1476-1485. 


Cai .i:ni<\i:  01  HI  Close  Roi.ijl 
Hi  m;v   III.  {Latin  tr.it). 


Vol. 
V.«l. 

Bdwabd 

Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 

Bdwabd 

Vol. 

Vol. 
Edwakd 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


[.—1227-1231. 
DC. — 1281  1284 

1. 

L— 1272-1279. 
11.     1272-1288. 
III.— 12SS  -V2W. 
II. 

I.— 1307-1313. 

II.— 1313-1318. 

III. 

I.— 1327-1330. 

II.— 1330-1333. 

III.— 1333-1337. 

IV.— 1337-1339. 

V.— 1339-1341. 

VI.— 1341-1343. 


1892-1911. 


VoL 

VoL 


III. 
IV. 


1284-1237. 
L  237-1242. 


Vol.       IV.— 1296-1302. 
Vol.         V.— 1302-1307. 


Vol.  III.— 1318-1323. 

Vol.  IV.— 1323-1327. 

Vol.  VIII.— 1346-1349. 

Vol.  IX.— 1349-1354. 

Vol.  X.— 1354-1360. 

Vol.  XI.— 1360-1364. 

Vol.  XII.— 1304-1368. 

Vol.  XIII.— 1369-1374. 


Vol.  V.— 1-9  Edward  II. 
Vol.     VI.— 10-20  Edward  II. 
Vol.  VII.— 1-9  Edward  III. 


Vol.  VII.— 1343-1346. 
Calendar    of    various    Chancery    Rolls: — Supplementary    Close 

Rolls,  Welsh  Rolls,  Scutage  Rolls.     1277-1326.     1912. 
Calendar  of  the  Charter  Rolls.     1903-1912. 

Vol.       I.— 1226-1257.  Vol.      III.— 1300-1326. 

Vol.     II.— 1257-1300.  Vol.      IV.— 1327-1341. 

Calendar  of  Inquisitions  post  mortem  and  other  analogous  docu- 
ments.     1898-1912. 

Vol.     I— Henry  III. 
Vol.   II.—  1-19  Edward  I. 
Vol.  III.— 20-28  Edward  I. 

Second  Series — 
Henry  VII.— Vol.  I. 
Inquisitions  and  Assessments  relating  to  Feudal  Aids,  etc.     1284- 
1431.     Vol.  I.     Bedford  to  Devon.      1899.     Vol.   II.     Dorset  to 
Huntingdon.      1900.     Vol.  III.     Kent    to    Norfolk.      1904.     Vol. 
IV.     Northamoton    to    Somerset.     1906.     Vol.    V.     Stafford    to 
Worcester.      1909. 
Calendar  of  Letters  and  Papers,  Foreign  and  Domestic,  of  the 
reign  of  Henry  VIII.,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office, 
the  British  Museum,  and  elsewhere  in  England.     Edited  by  J.  S. 
Brewer,  M.A.     (Vols.  I.-IV.)  ;    by  J.  Gairdner  (Vols.  V.-XIII.)  ; 
and  by  J.  Gairdner,  C.B.,  and  R.  H.  Brodie  (Vols.  XIV.-XXL). 
1862-1910. 


Vol.    I.— 1509-1514.      (New  and 

revised  edition  in  the  Press. ) 
Vol.    II.    (in  two    parts) — 1515- 

1518.   (Part  I.  out  of  print.) 
Vol.  III.   (in  two  parts)— 1519- 

1523. 
Vol.  IV. — Introduction. 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  I.— 1524-1526. 

(Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  II.— 1526-1528. 
Vol.  IV.,  Part  III.— 1529-1530. 
Vol.  V.— 1531-1532.  (Out  of  print.) 
Vol.  VI.— 1533. 
Vol.  VII.— 1534. 
Vol.  VIIL— 1535,  Jan.  to) 

July. 
Vol.  IX.— 1535,   Aug.  to   (Out  of 

Dec.  f  print. ) 

Vol.   X.— 1536,   Jan.    to 

June. 
Vol.  XL— 1536,  July  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XII. ,  Part  I.— 1537,  Jan. 

to  May. 
Vol.  XII.,  Part  II.— 1537,  June 

to  Dec. 
Vol.  XILL,  Part  I.— 1538,  Jan. 

to  July. 


Vol.    XIIL,    Part    II.— 1538, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XIV.,  Part  I.— 1539,  Jan. 

to  July. 
Vol.    XIV.,    Part    II.— 1539, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XV.— 1540,  Jan.  to  Aug. 
Vol.     XVI.— 1540,     Sept.     to 

1541,  Dec. 
Vol.  XVIL— 1542. 
Vol.    XVIIL,    Part   I.— 1543, 

Jan.  to  July. 
Vol.   XVIIL,  Part  II.— 1543, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XIX.,  Part  I.— 1544,  Jan. 

to  July. 
Vol.    XIX.,    Part    II.— 1544, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XX.,  Part  I.— 1545,  Jan. 

to  Julv- 
Vol.     XXj     Part    II.— 1545, 

Aug.  to  Dec. 
Vol.  XXL,  Part  L— 1546,  Jan. 

to  Aug. 
Vol.    XXI.,    Part    II.— 1546, 

Sept.  to  1547,  Jan. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  reigns  or 
Edward  VI.,  Mary,  Klizaheth,  and  James  1.  Edited  by  R. 
LEMON  (Vols.   I.   and   II.)  and  by  Mary   Anni:   EvEB  heen 

(Vols.  III.-XIL).      1856-187-2. 

Vol.  VIII.— 1603-1610. 
Vol.  IX.  -161 1-1618. 
Vol.  X.— 1619-1623. 
Vol.      XI.— 1623-1625,     with 

Addenda,   1603-1625. 
Vol.     XII.— Addenda,    1580- 
1625. 


Vol.  I.— 15-47-1580. 
Vol.  II.— 1581-1590. 
Vol.  III.— 1591-1594. 
Vol.  IV.— 1595-1597. 
Vol.  V.— 1598-1601. 
Vol.     VI.— 1601-1603, 

with       Addenda, 

1547-1565. 
Vol.  VII.— Addenda, 


{Out  of 
print. ) 


1566-1579. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  reign  of 
Charles  I.  Edited  by  J.  Bruce  (Vols.  I. -XII.)  ;  by  J.  Bruce 
and  W.  D.  Hamilton  (Vol.  XIII.)  ;  by  VV.  D.  Hamilton  (Vols. 
XIV.-XXII.)  ;  by  W.  D.  Hamilton  and  Sophie  C.  Lomas  (Vol. 
XXIII.).      1858-1897. 


Vol. 

L- 

—1625-1626. 

Vol. 

XIV.— 1639.      {Out  of 

Vol. 

II.- 

—1627-1628. 

print.) 

Vol. 

III.- 

-1628-1629. 

Vol. 

XV— 1639-1640. 

Vol. 

IV.- 

-1629-1631. 

Vol. 

XVI.— 1640. 

Vol. 

V.- 

—  1631-1633.  \ 

Vol. 

XVII.— 1640-1641. 

Vol. 

VI.- 

-1633-1634. 

Vol. 

XVIIL— 1641-1643. 

Vol. 

VII.- 

-1634-1635. 

{Out  of 

Vol. 

XIX.— 1644. 

Vol. 

VIII.- 

-1635. 

print. ) 

Vol. 

XX.— 1644-1645. 

Vol. 

IX.- 

-1635-1636. 

Vol. 

XXI.— 1645-1647. 

Vol. 

X. 

-1636-1637.^ 

Vol. 

XXII.— 1648-1649. 

Vol. 

XI.- 

-1637. 

Vol. 

XXIII.— Addenda,  1625- 

Vol. 

XII.- 

—1637-1638.  \  {Out  of 

1649. 

Vol. 

XIII. 

—1638-1639.  J   print.) 

Calendar  or 

State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  during  the  Common- 

WEALTH. 

Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green.     1875-1886. 

Vol. 

I.- 

-1649-1650. 

Vol. 

VIII.— 1655.     {Out  of 

Vol. 

II.- 

-1650. 

print. ) 

Vol. 

III.- 

-1651.              \  {Out  of 
-1651-1652.    J    print.) 

Vol. 

IX.— 1655-1656. 

Vol. 

IV.- 

Vol. 

X.— 1 656-1 657.  (ou/o/ 

Vol. 

V.- 

-1652-1653. 

Vol. 

XI.— 1657-1658.  print) 

Vol. 

VI.- 

-1653-1654. 

Vol. 

XII.— 1658-1659. 

Vol. 

VII.- 

-1654. 

Vol. 

XIII.— 1659-1660. 

Calendar    of    State   Pa 

PERS.       C 

OMMITTEE 

:   for  the   Advance   of 

Money.     1642-1656.     Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green. 

Parts  I.-III.     1888. 
Calendar    of    State    Papers.     Committee  for  Compounding,  &c. 

1643-1660.     Edited    by    Mary    Anne    Everett    Green.     Parts 

I.-V.    1889-1892. 
Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  reign  of 

Charles  II.     Edited  by  Mary  Anne  Everett  Green  (Vol.  I.-X.)  ; 

and  by  F.  H.  B.  Daniell  (Vols.  XI. -XIX.).     L860-191  1. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


I.— 1660-1661. 

II.— 1661-1662.] 

III.— 1663-1664.  ! 


{Out  of 

print.) 


V.— 1665-  Hi  66 
VI.— 1666-1667.  j 
VII.— 1667. 
VIII.— 1667-1668. 
IX.— 1668-1669. 
X.— 1670,  and  Addenda, 


Vol.  XI.— 1671. 

Vol.  XII.— 1671-1672. 

Vol.  XIII.— 1672. 

Vol.  XIV.— 1672-1673. 

Vol.  XV.— 1673. 

Vol.  XVI.— 1673-1675, 

Vol.  XVII.— 1075-1076. 

Vol.  XVIIL— 1676-1677. 

Vol.  XIX.-  L677-1678. 


1660-1670. 

Calendar  of  State   I'apers,   Domestic  Sebibs,  01   the  ueign  of 
\Viu.i\m  III.     Edited  by  \V.  J.   Habdy.     1898  L908. 
Vol.      I.— 1689-1890.  Vol.    V.— 1694  1695. 


Vol.  II.— 1690-1691. 
Vol.  III.— 1691-1692. 
Vol.  IV.— 1693. 


Vol.  VL — 1895,  July  koD 

■ad  Addenda,   1089- 
1695. 


Cm  i  m.\u   01    H"  tOB  Pi  I  "i     i  0W  i  lEOBGH    [II. 

\  |    and  II.  ,i     Ki  D1NOTOK.      1878  1^7'.'.      Vol*.  Hi- 

atal  l\  .      /    Uted  by  K.   A.   KoH 


B(  ■ 


W.I.     I.     1760  (25  Oct.)-1766 
\    I.   II.    -1768  l. 
C.M.isn  \u    ok   Tki:  LSI  i;v 
1904-191 1. 
Vol.       [.—1888  16 
Vol.     H. — 1887-1868. 
\    I.   111.   in  two  ]  L669- 

1672. 
Calkm'u;   O]      i  kn     I'.weus 

1889 
Vol.      I.—  1.->:>71G 
Vol.     II.-  -1697-1702. 
Vol.  m.— 1702-1707. 
C'ai.i  noau  of  Tui;  vsruv  BOOKS  AND  l'\. 
Litt.  1).      1897-1903 


Vol.  III.      1770  I77J. 
Vol.    IV.      177.'.   177... 
Edited   l>;/    W.    A.    Shaw,    Litt.  D. 


Vol.    [V.— 1672-1675. 
Vol.       V.     (in      i  wo     parts) — 
L676  1079. 

Edited  by  J.  Redington.     1868- 

Vol.  IV.— 1708-1714. 
Vol.  V.— 1714-1719. 
Vol.   VI.— 1720-1728. 

Edited  by  W.  A.  Shaw, 


Vol.       I. — 1729-lToU. 
Vol.     II.— 1731-1734. 

Vol.  111.— 1735-1738. 


Vol.  IV.— 1739-1741. 
Vol.     V.— 1742-1745. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Scotland.     Edited  by  M.  J. 
Thorpe.     1858. 
Vol.     I.— 1509-1589. 

Vol.  II.— 1589-1603  ;     an  Appendix,  1543-1592  ;     and  State  Papers 

relating  to  Mary  Queen  of  Scots,  1568-1587. 

Calendar  of  Documents  relating  to  Ireland,  in  the  Public  Record 

Office,  London.     Edited  by  H.  S.  Sweetman,  B.A.  (Vols.  I.-IV.)  ; 

and  by  H.  S.  Sweetman  and  G.  F.  Handcock  (Vol.  V.).     1875-1886. 


Vol.       L— 1171-1251. 

Vol.     II.— 1252-1284. 


(Out  of 
print. ) 


Vol.  III.— 1285-1292. 
Vol.  IV.— 1293-1301. 
Vol.     V.— 1302-1307. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  Henry  VIII. — 


Hamilton    (Vols.    I. 


Elizabeth.       Edited    by    H.     C 

E.   G.   Atkinson   (Vols.   VI.-X.);  and  by  R.  P.  Mahaffy, 

(Vol.  XI.).     1860-1912. 


V.);    by 
B.A. 


Vol.  I.— 1509-1573. 

Vol.  II.— 1574-1585. 

(Out  of  print.) 

Vol.  III.— 1586-1588. 

Vol.  IV.— 1588-1592. 

Vol.  V.— 1592-1596. 

Vol.  VI.— 1596-1597. 


Vol.  VIII.— 1599-1600. 

Vol.  IX.— 1600. 

Vol.  X.— 1600-1601. 

Vol.  XL— 1601-1603; 


with 

and 

of     the    Hanmer 


Addenda,     1565-1654, 

Calendar 

Papers. 


Vol.VLL— 1598-1599. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  James  I.,  preserved 

in  the  Public  Record  Office,  and  elsewhere.     Edited  by  the  Rev. 

C.  W.  Russell,  D.D.,  and  J.  P.  Prendergast.     1872-1880. 


Vol.       I.— 1603-1606. 

(Out  of  print.) 
Vol.     II.— 1606-1608. 
Vol.  III.— 1608-1610. 


Vol.  IV.— 1611-1614. 

(Out  of  print.) 
Vol.      V.— 1615-1625. 


Calendar  of  State   Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  Charles  I.  and 
Commonavealth.     Edited  by  R.  P.  Mahaffy,  B.A.     1900-1903. 
Vol.       I. — 1625-1632.  |  Vol.     IV.— Adventurers      for 

Vol.     II.— 1633-1647.  Land,  1642-1659. 

Vol.  III.— 1647-1660,  with 
Addenda,   1625-1660. 
Calendar  of  State  Papers  relating  to  Ireland,  Charles  II.     Edited 
by  R.  P.  Mahaffy,  B.A.,  1905-1911. 


Vol.   IV.— 1669-1670,    with 
Addenda,  1625-1670. 


Vol.     I.— 1660-1662. 
Vol.  II.— 1663-1665. 
Vol.  III.— 1666-1669. 
Calendar  of  the  Carew  Papers,  preserved  in  the  Lambeth  Library. 
Edited  by   J.    S.    Brewer,   M.A.,   and   W.    Bullen.      1867-1873 


Vol.       I.— 1515-1574 
Vol.     II.— 1575-1588. 
Vol.  III.— 1589-1600. 


(Out  of 
print.) 

(Old  of 
print.) 


Vol.  IV.— 1601-1603. 
Vol.     V.— Book  of  Howth 

Miscellaneous. 
Vol.    VI.— 1603-1624. 


Calendar  of  State   Papbbs,  Colonial  Series.     Edited  by  W.   N. 

Sainsbury  (Vols.  I. -IX.) ;    by  W.  x.  Sawsbi  kv  and  fche  Hon. 

J.  W.  Fortescue  (Vol.  X.);     by  the   Hon.  J.   \\ .   Fobtksoub 

(Vols.    XI.-XVI.)  ;     and    by    C.    Headlam,    M.A.    (Vols.    XVII. 

to  XX.)      1860-1912. 
Vol.  I. — America  and  West  Indies,   1574-  1G60. 

Vol.        II. — East  Indies,  China,  and  Japan,  1613-1616. 
Vol.      III.—         „  „  „         1617-1621. 

Vol.       IV.—         „  „  „         1622-1624. 

Vol.         V. — America    and   West   Indies,      1661-1668. 
Vol.       VI. — East  Indies,  China,  and  Persia,  1025-1029. 
Vol.     VII. — America  and  West  Indies,  1669-1674. 
Vol.  VIII.— East  Indies  and  Persia,  1630-1634. 

Vol.       IX. — America  and  West  Indies,    1675-1676,   and   Addenda, 
1574-1674. 
X. — America  and  West  Indies,  1677-1680. 


(Out  of 
print.) 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


XL— 

XII.— 

XIII.— 

XIV.— 

XV.— 

XVI.— 

XVII.— 


Vol.  XVIII.— 
Vol.  XIX.— 
Vol.     XX  — 


1681-1685. 
1685-1688. 
1689-1692. 
1693-1696. 
1696-1697. 
1697-1698. 
1699  ;     with  Addenda,   1621- 

1698. 
1700. 
1701. 
Jan. -Dec.  1,  1702. 


Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Foreign  Series,  preserved  in  the 
Public  Record  Office.  Edited  by  W.  B.  Tuksbull.  1861. 
Edward  VI.,  1547-1553.  [  Mary,  1553-1558. 
Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Foreign  Series,  of  the  reign  of 
Elizabeth,  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  Office,  &c.  Edited 
by  the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson,  M.A.  (Vols.  I. -VII.)  ;  by  A.  J.  Crosby, 
M.A.  (Vols.  VIII.-XL);  and  by  A.  J.  Butler,  M.A.  (Vols.  XII.- 
XVI.).      1863-1909. 

(Out  of 
print.) 


Vol. 


I.— 1558-1559. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


II.— 1559-1560. 
III.— 1560-1561. 
IV.— 1561-1562. 

V.— 1562.  (Out  of  print.) 


Vol. 
Vol. 


IX.— 1569-1571. 
X.— 1572-1574  (Out  of 
print.) 
Vol.       XI.— 1575-1577. 
Vol.     XII.— 1577-1578. 
Vol.  XIII.— 1578-1579. 
Vol.   XIV.— 1579-1580. 
XV.— 1591-1582. 
XVI.— 1582. 
illustrative  of  the  History  of 
9 18-1 206.     Edited  by  J.  H. 


Vol 
Vol 


VI.— 1563 

VII.— 1564-1565. 

Vol.  VIII.— 1566-1568. 

Calendar  of  Documents  in  France, 

Great  Britain  and  Ireland.   Vol.  I 

Round,  M.A.     1899. 

Calendar  of  Letters,  Despatches,  and  State  Papers,  relating  to 

the  Negotiations  between  England  and  Spain,  preserved  at  Siman- 

cas  and  elsewhere.     Edited  by  G.  A.  Bergenroth  (Vols.  I.  and 

II.)  ;     by  Don  Pascual  de  Gayangos  (Vols.  III.  to  VI.)  ;     by 

Don  Pascual  de  Gayangos  and  M.  A.  S.  Humb  (Vol.   VII.)  ; 

and  by  M.  A.  S.  Hume  (Vol.  VIII.).     1862-190  1. 


Vol.     I.— 1485-1509. 

(Out   of    print.) 
Vol.  II.— 1509-1525. 
Supplement    to    Vol.    I.      and 

Vol.  II. 

Vol.  III.   Part     I.— 1525-1526. 

Vol.  III.  Part  II.— 1527-1529. 

Vol.    IV.   Part     I.— 1529-1530. 

(Out  of  print.) 


Vol.    IV.   Part  II.— 1631-1633. 

(Out  of  /irint.) 
V6L   IV.   Part    II.— 1531-1533. 

continued. 
Vol.     V.   Part     I.— 1534-1535. 
Vol.     V.    Part    II.— 1536-1538. 
Vol.   VI.    Part     I.— 1538-1542. 
Vol.  VI.    Part    II.— 1542-1543. 

VII.— 15  t  I. 
Vol.  VIII. — 1646-1646. 


Calendar  of  Letters  and  State  P.\im;ks,  relating  bo  Enoush 
Affairs,  preserved  principally  in  the  Archives  oi  Simanoaa. 
Edited  by  M.  A.  S.  II. me.      1892-1891). 


Vol.     I.— 1558-1567. 
Vol.  II— 1568-157! ». 


Vol.  HI.— 1880-1686. 

Vol.  IV.    -1587-1603. 


I 


QtXBHDAl  LOT   M  wi'si'iiirTS,  relating  to  KvonsH 

\ii;-.   preserved   in   tin-   Archives  of   Venioe,   &o.     Edited  by 


i;    Bbowv  (Vols.  I.  \  l.)  ;    by  R.  Bbow» 

Cvmm'Mi   I'.iniin.u     (Vol.     VII.);      by 

Vni.-Xn.)!   and  by   \.  B.  Hiots,    m   \ 
1864  1911. 


ninl  the  Right   Hon.  a 
II.    l'.    Brow*    (Vols. 

(Vols.    XIII. -Will.) 


Vol. 

[.—1202-1609.      (Out  of 

Vol. 

\  III. 

—1681-1691. 

print.) 

Vol. 

IX. 

—1692-1603. 

Vol. 

11.      L609-1619. 

Vol. 

X. 

— 1603-1 007. 

Vol. 

III.      1620  1626. 

Vol. 

XI. 

—  1607-1(510. 

Vol. 

IV       1527-1538. 

Vol. 

XII. 

—  1610-1613. 

Vol. 

\        1534-1554. 

Vol. 

XIII. 

—  1613-1615. 

Vol. 

VI.—  Tart       I. — 1656-1566. 

Vol. 

XIV. 

—  1615-1617. 

Vol. 

VI.— Part    EL— 1566-1657. 

Vol. 

XV. 

—  1617-1619. 

Vol. 

VI.—  Part  111.-1537-1558. 

Vol. 

XVI. 

— 1019-1621. 

(Out  of  print  ) 

Vol. 

XVII. 

-1621  1623. 

Vol. 

VI  I.— 1558-1580. 

Vol.  Will 

—1623-1625. 

Calendar  of  entries  in  the  Papal  Registers,  illustrating  the  History 

of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.     Edited  by  W.  H.  Bliss  (Vols.  I. 

and  II.);     by  W.   II.  Bliss  and  C.  Johnson,  M.A.  (Vol.  III.); 

by  YV.   H.   Bliss  and   J.  A.  Twemlow,  B.A.  (Vols.  IV  and  V.) ; 

and  by  J.  A.  Twemlow,  B.A.  (Vols.  VI.- IX.). 

Papal  Letters.      1893-1913. 
Vol.       I.— 1198-1304. 
Vol.     II.— 130.V  1342. 
Vol. 


III.— 1342-1362. 
Vol.  IV.— 1362-1404. 
Vol.      V.— 1396-1404. 

Petitions  to  the  Pope. 
Vol.       I.— 1342-1419. 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


VI.— 1404-1415. 
VII.— 1417-1431. 
VIII.— 1427-1447. 
IX.— 1431-1447. 


1896. 


Guide  to  the  Various  Classes  of  Documents  in  the  Public 
Record  Office.  By  S.  R.  Scargill-Bird.  Third  Edition. 
1908.     Price  Is. 

,  New  Series.     Edited  by 
10s.  each. 

XVII.— 1588-1589. 
XVIII.— 1589-1590. 
XIX.— 1590. 
XX.— 1590-1591. 
XXL— 1591. 
XXIL— 1591-1592. 
XXIIL— 1592. 
XXIV.— 1592-1593. 
XXV.— 1595-1596. 
XXVL— 1596-1597. 
XXVIL— 1597. 
XX  VIIL— 1597-1598. 
XXIX.— 1598-1599. 
XXX.— 1599-1600. 
XXXI.- 1600-1601. 
XXXIL— 1601-1604. 

Acts    of    the    Privy    Council    of    England.      Colonial    Series. 
Edited  by  W.  L.  Grant,  M.A.,  and  J.  Munro,  M.A.  (Vols.  I.-III.), 
and  by  J.  Munro,  M.A.  (Vols.  IV  and  V).     1909-1912.     Price  10«. 
each. 
Vol.     I.— 1613-1680.  Vol.  IV.— 1745-1766. 


Acts  < 

df  the  Privy  Council  of  . 

England 

J. 

R.  Dasent,  M.A.     1890-1907.     Price 

Vol. 

I.— 1542-1547. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

II.— 1547-1550. 

VoL 

Vol. 

III.— 1550-1552. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

IV.— 1552-1554. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

V.— 1554-1556. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

VI.— 1556-1558. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

VII.— 1558-1570. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

VIIL— 1571-1575. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

IX.— 1575-1577. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

X.— 1577-1578. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

XL— 1578-1580. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

XII.— 1580-1581. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

XIIL— 1581-1582. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

XIV.— 1586-1587. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

XV.— 1587-1588. 

Vol. 

Vol. 

XVI.— 1588. 

Vol. 

Vol.  II.— 1680-1720. 
Vol.  III.— 1720-1745. 


Vol.     V.- 
Vol.  VI.- 


■1766-1783. 
"The  Unbound 
Papers." 


Catalogue  of  Manuscripts  and  other  objects  in  the  Museum  of 
the  Public  Record  Office.  By  Sir  H.  C.  Maxwell  Lyte, 
K.C.B.     Seventh   Edition.     1911.     Price   6d. 


9 

In  the  Press. 

Close  Rolls  of  the  Reign  <>i   Minry  III.     Vol.  V. 

Calendar   of   the   Close    Rolls   of   the    boon   of    Edward    III 
Vol.  XIV. 

Calendar  of  the  Close  Rolls  of  the  Reign  of  Rich  lbd  II.     Vol.  I. 

Calendar   of  the   Fine   Rolls.     Vol.  IV..  Edward  III. 

Calendar   of   the   Patent   Rolls   of   the   reion   of   Henry   III 
Vol.  VI. 

Calendar  of  the   Patent  Rolls  of  the  reion  of  Edward  III. 
Vols.  XIV.  and  XV. 

Calendar  of  the  Patent  Rolls  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VII.   Vol.  I. 

Calendar  of  the  Charter  Rolls.     Vol.  V. 

Calendar     of     Inquisitions     Post    Mortkm.        Vol.     IV.,    29-35 
Edward  I.     Vols.  VEIL  and  IX.,  Edward  111. 

Calendar  of  Inquisitions  Post  Mortem.   Second  Series.  Henry  VII. 
Vol.  II. 

Calendar    of    State    Papers   in  the  Archives  at  Rome   illustrating 
the  History  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.     Vol.  I. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  relating  to  English  Affairs,  preserved 
in  the  Archives  of  Venice,  &c.     Vol.  XIX. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  relating  to  English  Affairs,  preserved 
in  the  Archives  of  Milan.      (15th  century.) 

Calendar  of  entries  in  the  Papal  Registers,  illustrating  the  History 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.     Papal  Letters.     Vols.  X.  and  XI. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  rbign  of 
William  III.     Vols.   VII.  and  VIII. 

Calendar  of  Treasury  Books.     Vols.  VI.  and  VII. 

Calendar    of    Letters    and     Papers,    Foreign    and     Domestic, 
Henry  VIII.     Vol.  I.     15U9-1514.     New  and  revised  edition. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Foreign  Series,  Elizabeth.    Vols.  XVII. 
and  XVIII. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Domestic  Series,  of  the  reign  of 
Charles  II.     Vols.  XX  and  XXI. 

Calendar  of  State  Papers,  Colonial  Series.    Vol.  XXI. 

Catalogue  of  Ancient  Deeds.     Vol.  VI. 

Calendar  of  Letters,  Despatches,  and  State  Papers,  relatino 
to  the  Negotiations  between  England  and  Spain.     Vol.  IX. 

Inquisitions  and  Assessments  relating  to  Feudal  Aids.     Vol.  VI. 

Calendar    of    Miscellaneous    Inquisitions   (Chancery).     Vol.     I 
Henry  III.  and  Edward  I.     Vol.  II.  Edward  II. 

Calendar  of   Chancery    Warrants. 

Calendar   of  State    Papers,  Domestic  Shbibs,  of   thi    rkign  of 
.Anne. 

Calendar  of  the  Liberate  Rolls. 


lit 

PUBLIC    RECORD    OFFICE. 


LISTS    AND    INDEXES. 

The  objeot  of  these  publicationa  is  to  make  the  contents  of  the 
Public  Record  oilier  more  easily  available.  In  conjunction  with 
the  Calendars,  they  will,  in  course  of  time,  form  a  catalogue  of  the 
National  Archives,  as  explained  in  the  Fifty-first  Report  of  the 
Deputy  Keeper  of  the  Records  (page  lo). 


\       1.      Index   of    Ancient    Petitions   of   the   Chancery  and   tho 
Exchequer,     1892.     \\s.  (>(/. 

\  ■.  II.      List  and  Index  of  DECLARED  Accounts  from  the  Pipe  Office 

and  the  Audit  Office.      1893.      16». 
No.   111.      List    of    volumes    of    STATE    Papebs    (Great    Britain    and 

Ireland).      Part   I.      1547-1760.       1894.      6s.    (id.      (New  Edition   in 

til     l'r 

No.  IV.     List  of  Plea  Rolls.     New  and  revised  Edition.     1910.     7s. 

No.  V.      List  of  Ministers'  Accounts  preserved  in  tho  Public  Record 
Office,      Part   I.      1894.      10s. 

No.    VI.     List  and  Index  of  Court  Rolls  preserved  in  the  Public 
Record   Office.      Part  I.      1890.      15s. 

No.    VII.     Index    of    Chancery    Proceedings,    Series    II.     Vol.    I. 
1558-1579.      1890.      14s. 

No.    VIII.     List    of    Ministers'    Accounts.     Appendix,    Corrigenda, 

and  Index  to  Part  I.      1897.      3s. 
No.  IX.     List  of  Sheriffs  from  the  earliest  times  to  A.D.  1831.      1898. 

9s. 

No.  X.     List  of  proceedings  with  regard  to  Charitable  Uses.     1899. 

OS. 

No.  XL     List  of  Foreign  Accounts  enrolled  on  the  Great  Rolls  of 
the  Exchequer.      1900.      10s. 

No.   XII.     List  of  Early  Chancery  Proceedings.     Vol.  I.     1901. 
12s. 

No.    XIII.     List    of    Star-Chamber    Proceedings.     Vol.    I.     1485- 
1558.     1901.     10s. 

No.  XIV.     List  of  Records  of  the  Duchy  of  Lancaster.     1901.     5s. 

Xo.   XV.     List  of  Ancient  Correspondence   of  the  Chancery  and 
Exchequer.      1902.      12s. 

No.  XVI.     List  of  Early  Chancery  Proceedings.     Vol.  II.     1903. 
17s. 

No.  XVII.     List  of  Inquisitions  ad  Quod  Damnum.     Part  I.     1904. 
13s. 

No.  XVIII.     List  of  Admiralty  Records.     Vol.  I.     1904.     8s. 

No.  XIX.     List  of  State  Papers,  Foreign,  1577-1581.     1904.     4s. 

No.  XX.     List  of  Early  Chancery  Proceedings.     Vol.  III.     1906. 
15s. 

No.  XXI.     List  of  Proceedings  in  the  Court  of  Requests.     Vol.  I. 
1906.     15s. 

No.    XXII.     List    of    Inquisitions    ad    quod    Damnum.     Part   II. 
1906.     14s. 

No.    XXIII.     Index    of    Inquisitions.     Vol.    I.     Henry    VIII.    to 
Philip  and  Mary.     1907.     10s. 

No.  XXIV.     Index  of  Chancery  Proceedings.     Series  II.     Vol.  II. 
1579-1621.      1908.      10s. 


11 

No.  XXV.     List  of  Rentals  and   Surveys,   and  other  Analogous 
Documents.      1908.      14s. 

No.  XXVI.     Index  of  Inquisitions.     Vol.  II.  Elizabeth.     1908.     12*. 

No.  XXVII.     List  of  Chancery  Rolls.     1908.     10s. 

No.  XXVIII.     List  of  War  Office  Records.     Vol.  I.     1908.     8s.  6d. 

No.    XXIX.     List    of    Early    Chanoebt    Proceedings.     Vol.    IV 
1908.      15s. 

No.  XXX.     Index  of  Chancery  Proceedings.     Series  II.     Vol.  III. 
1621-1660.      1909.      12s. 

No.    XXXI.     Index    of    Inquisitions.     Vol.    III.     James    I.     1909. 
12s. 

No.  XXXII.      Index   of   Placita   de   Banco   (Plea  Rolls,    Common 
Pleas),  1327-1328:— 

Part   I.     Bedford  to  Norfolk.     1910.     15s. 

Part   II.      Northampton    to    York,    Divers    Counties,    and    Mis- 
cellaneous.     1910.      lis.  Gd. 

No.   XXXIII.     Index  of   Inquisitions.     Vol.   IV.     Charles  I.  and 
later.     With   Appendices.      1910.      14s. 

No.  XXXIV.     List  of  Ministers'  Accounts.     Part  II.      1910.     10s. 

No.  XXXV.    Exchequer  Accounts.     1912.     12s. 

No.  XXXVI.     Colonial  Office  Records.  1911.     lis. 

No.  XXXVII.     Special      Commissions      and     Keturns     in     the 
Exchequer.     1912.     5s. 

No.  XXXVIII.    Early  Chancery  Proceedings.     Vol.  V.  1912.    20s. 


In  the  Press. 

Palatinates  of  Chester.  Durham  with  Lancaster,  the  Honor  of 
Peveril  and  Principality  of  Wales. 

Chancery  Proceedlngs.     Bridges  Division. 

Foreign  Office  Records,  1781-1837. 

Home  Office  Papers. 

Treasury  Records  prior  to  1837. 


12 


THE    CHRONICLES    \\'l>    MEMORIALS 

OF    GREAT    BRITAIN     \\'l>    [RELAND  DURING 

THE    MIDDLK  AGES. 


R "YAL  8vo.      Price    10*.   each   Volumo  or   Part. 


1.  Tin:  CHRONICLE  OT  ENGLAND,  by  John  Capgrave.     Edited  by  the 

Rev.  F.  C.  Bingeston,  M.A.     1858. 

2.  ChbONIOOH   BfONASTEBU    DB   Abivgdon.      Vols.   I.   and  II.      Edited 

by  the  Rev.  J.  Stephenson,  M.A.     1858. 

3.  Lives    of   Edward    the    Confessor.     I. — La   Estoire   de    Seint 

Aedward  le  Rei.  II. — Vita  Beati  Edvardi  Regis  et  Confessoris. 
1 1 1. — Vita  ASduuardJ  Ko^is  qui  apud  Westmonastorium  requiescit. 
Edited  by  H.  R.  Luard, M.A.      1858. 

4.  MONUMENTA    FRANCISCANA. 

Vol.  I. — Thomas  de  Eccleston  de  Adventu  Fratrum  Minorum  in 
Angliam.  Ada;  de  Marisco  Epistolse.  Registrum  Fratrum 
Minorum  Londoniae.     Edited  by  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.      1858. 

Vol.    II. — De    Adventu    Minorum  ;      re-edited    with    additions. 
Chronicle  of  the  Grey  Friars.     The  ancient  English  version  of 
t  he  Rule  of  St.   Francis.     Abbreviatio  Statutorum,    1451,  &c. 
Edited  by  R.  Howlett.      1882. 

5.  Fasciculi  Zizaniorum  Magistri  Johannis  Wyclif  cum  Tritico 

Ascribed  to  Thomas  Netter,  of  Walden,  Provincial  of  the 
Carmelite  Order  in  England,  and  Confessor  to  King  Henry  the 
Fifth.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  W.  Shirley,  M.A.     1858. 

6.  The  Buik  of  the  Croniclis  of  Scotland  ;    or,  a  Metrical  Version 

of  the  History  of  Hector  Boece  ;  by  William  Stewart.  Vols. 
I. -HI.     Edited  by  W.  B.  Turnbull.      1858. 

7.  Johannis  Capgrave  Liber  de  Illustribus  Henricis.     Edited  by 

the  Rev.  F.  C.  Hingeston,  M.A.     1858. 

8.  Historia  Monasterii  S.  Augustini  Cantuariensis,  by  Thomas 

of  Elmham,  formerly  Monk  and  Treasurer  of  that  Foundation. 
Edited  by  C.  Hard  wick,  M.A.      1858. 

9.  Eulogium    (Historiajrum    sive   Temporis)  :     Chronicon   ab  Orbe 

condito  usque  ad  Annum  Domini  1366  ;  a  monacho  quodam 
Malmesbiriensi  exaratum.  Vols.  I. -III.  Edited  by  F.  S.  Haydon, 
B.A.      1858-1863. 

10.  Memorials  of  Henry  the  Seventh  ;   Bernardi  Andrea?  Tholosatis 

Vita  Regis  Henrici  Septimi  ;  necnon  alia  qusedam  ad  eundem 
Regem  Spectantia.     Edited  by  J.  Gairdner.      1858. 

11.  Memorials    of    Henry    the    Fifth.     I. — Vita    Henrici    Quinti, 

Roberto  Redmanno  auctore.  II. — Versus  Rhythmici  in  laudem 
Regis  Henrici  Quinti.  III. — Ehnharni  Liber  Metricus  de  Henrico 
V.     Edited  by  C.  A.  Cole.      1858. 


13 

12.  Munimenta    Gildhall.e    Londoniensis  ;       Liber    Albiis,    Liber 

Custumarum,  et  Liber  Horn,  in  archivis  GildhallflB  asservati. 
Edited  by  H.  T.  Riley,  M.A.      1859-1802. 

Vol.  I.,  Liber  Albus. 

Vol.  II.  (in  Two  Parts),  Liber  Custumarum. 

Vol.  III.,  Translation  of  the  Anglo-Norman  Passages  in    Liber 
Albus,    Glossaries,    Appendices,    and    Index. 

13.  Chronica   Johannis   de    Oxenedes.     Edited   by   Sir   H.    Ellis, 

K.H.     1859. 

14.  A   Collection   of   Political   Poems   and    Songs   relating   to 

English  History,  from  the  accession  of  Edward  III.  to  the 
reign  of  Henry  VIII.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  T.  Wright, 
M.A.      1859-1861. 

15.  The   "  Opus  Tertium,"   "  Opus  Minus,"   &c.  of  Roger  Bacon. 

Edited  by  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.     1859. 

16.  Bartholom.ei    de    Cotton,    monachi    Xorwicensis,    Historia 

Anglicana,  449-1298  ;     necnon  ejusdom  Liber  de  Archiepiseopia 

et  Episcopis  Angliae.     Edited  by  H.  R.   Luard,  M.A.      1859. 

17.  Brut  y  Tywysogion  ;     or,  The  Chronicle  of  the  Princes  of  Walos. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Williams  ab  Ithel,  M.A.      1860. 

18.  A  Collection  of  Royal  and  Historical  Letters  during  the 

Reign  of  Henry  IV.  Vol.  I.  1399-1404.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
F.   C.   Hingeston,  M.A.     1860. 

19.  The  Repressor  of  over  much  Blaming  of  the  Clergy.     By 

Reginald  Pecock,  sometime  Bishop  of  Chichester.  Vols.  I. 
and  II.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  C.  Babington,  B.D.      1860. 

20.  Annales  Cambrl-e.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Williams  ab  Ithel, 

M.A.      1860. 

21.  The  Works  of  Giraldus  Cambrensis.     Vols.  I. -IV.     Edited  by 

the  Rev.  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.  ;  Vols.  V.-YII.  Edited  by  the 
Rev.  J.  F.  Dimock,  M.A. ;  Vol. VIII.  EditedbyG.  F.Warner,'  M.A. 
1861-1891.     (Vols.  IV.  to  VII.  Out  of  print.) 

22.  Letters  and  Papers  illustrative  of  the  Wars  of  the  English 

in  France  during  the  Reign  of  Henry  the  Sixth,  King  of 
England.  Vol.  I.,  and  Vol.  II.  (in  Two  Parts).  Edited  by  the 
Rev.    J.    Stevenson,   M.A.      18G1-18G4. 

23.  The    Anglo-Saxon    Chronicle,    according    to    the    sever  w. 

Original  Authorities.  Vol.  I.,  Original  Texts.  \'<>I.  II., 
Translation.     Edited  and  translated  by   B.   Thorpe.      1861. 

24.  Letters  and  Papers  illustrative  of  the  reigns  of  Richard 

III.  and  Henry  VII.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  3.  Gairdnkr, 
1861-1863. 

25.  Letters   of  Bishop   Grosseteste.     Edited  by   the    Rev.    H.    R. 

Luard,  M.A.     1861. 

26.  Descriptive    Catalogue    of    Materials     relating    to    ihi 

History  of  Great  Britain  \m>  Ireland,  to  the  end  <>k  the 
reign  of  II;:m:v  VII  Vol.  I.  (in  Two  Parts),  Anterior  to  tliu 
Norman  Invasion;  Vol.  II.,  1066-1200;  Vol.  111..  1200-1327. 
Edited  by  Sir  T.   I).    Hardy,   D.C.L.      1808-1871. 


H 

-T.    EtOTAl      LOT)    niiiii;    Historic  u,    1. 1   lints    illustrative    of    the 

rbk  Extant  III.     Vol.  I       I'ir.  123S.     Vol.  M.  L2S6-1272. 

gefocfccf cmd  tdUed  by  the  Rev.  \\.  \\ .  Smui  i  jr,  D.D.     L 862- 1866. 

0BBOOTO4    M"N\-nuii   S.   Au-.wi.     Edited  by  H.  T.    Kii.i.y,  M.A. 
1863-1876. 

1.  Tmom  v   \\  m  sanaa  \m    Bxstobia   Anglicana.     Vol.   I.,    1272- 
1381  ;    Vol.  II..  1381-1422. 

_'.    WiiiiMMi    Kisiiw.ii:    CHBOOTOA    it    Aww.es,    1259-1307. 

3.  JOKAHOTB     it     Tkoki  i.o\\  i:     it     HeNBIOI     de     Blaneforde 

Chbootoa   it  Aww.es   1259-1206;     1307-1324;     1392-1406. 

4.  Gesta  Abbatim   BfONASTKBIX  S.  Ai.kwi,  a  Thoma  Walsing- 

HAM,      KICNANII.      Kli'AKDO      SECUNDO,      EJUSDEM      EcCLESIjE 

l'i:  i  i  i  store.    <  omimi.ata.      Vol.     I.,     793-1290;      Vol.    II., 
1290-1349;     Vol.  III.,   1349-1411. 

5.  JOIIWMS   Amundesham.    MONACHI  MONASTERII   S.   ALBANI,   UT 

\  i  detur,  Annales  ;    Vols.  I.  and  II. 

6.  Registra  quorundam  Abbatum  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  qui 

•ulo  xv»»  Floruere.  Vol.  I.,  Hi'oistrum  Abbati.je 
Johannis  Whethamstede,  Abbatis  Monasterii  Sancti 
Albani,  itkium  m^kiti:  ;  Roberto  Hi.  ake.vey,  capellano, 
quondam  adscrietem.  Vol.  II.,  Kegistra  Johannis 
Win:  i  h  \Msri:i)i:.  WrLLELMl  Albon,  et  Willelmi  Waling- 
forde,  Abbatum  Monasterii  Sancti  Albani,  cum  Appen- 
dice  continents  quasdam  epistolas  a  johanne  whetham- 
stede  conscriptas. 

7.  YrODIGMA     NEUSTRliE     a     Thoma     Walsingham,     quondam 

monacho  Monasterii  S.  Albani,  conscriptum. 

29.  Chronicon      Abbati^e     de     Evesham,     auctoribus     Dominico 

Priore  Eveshamee  et  Thoma  de  Marleberge  Abbate,  a  fun- 
d  ati  one  ad  annum  1213,  una  cum  continuations  ad  annum 
1418.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  D.  Macray.      1863. 

30.  Ricardi    de    Cirencestria    Speculum    Historiale    de    Gestis 

REGUM  Anglic.  Vol.  I.,  447-871.  Vol.  II.,  872-1066.  Edited 
by  J.  E.  B.  Mayor,  M.A.     1863-1869. 

31.  Year  Books  of  the  reigns  of  Edward  the  First  and  Edward 

the  Third.  Years  20-21,  21-22  {Out  of  Print),  30-31,  32-33,  and 
33-35  {Out  of  print)  Edw.  I.  ;  and  11-12  Edw.  III.  Edited  and 
translated  by  A.  J.  Horwood.  Years  12-13,  13-14,  14,  14-15, 
15,  16  {in  two  parts),  17,  17-18,  18,  18-19,  19,  and  20  {in  two 
parts),  Edward  III.  Edited  and  translated  by  L.  O.  Pike,  M.A. 
1863-1911. 

32.  Narratives  of  the  Expulsion  of  the  English  from  Normandy, 

1449-1450. — Robertus  Blondelli  de  Reductione  Normanniae  :  Le 
Recouvrement  de  Normendie,  par  Berry,  Herault  du  Roy  :  Con- 
ferences between  the  Ambassadors  of  France  and  England. 
Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson,  M.A.     1863. 

33.  Historia  et  Cartularium  Monasterii  S.  Petri  Gloucestrle. 

Vols.  I.-III.     Edited  by  W.  H.  Hart.     1863-1867. 

34.  Alexandri    Neckam    de    Naturis    Rerum    libri    duo  ;      with 

Xeckam's  Poem,  De  Laudibus  Divente  Sapiente/E.  Edited  by 
T.  Wright,  M.A.     1863. 


15 

35.  Leechdoms,  Wortcunnino,  and  Starcraft  of  Early  Exu.wd  ; 

being  a  Collection   of   Documents   illustrating   the   History   of 
Science  in   this   Country   before   the  Norman  Conquest.      \ 
I.-III.      (Vol.     III.    Out   of  print.)     Collected  and   edited   by    tin- 
Rev.  O.  Cockayne,  M.A.     1864-1806. 

36.  Annales  Monastici.     Edited  by  the   Rev.   H.   R.   Luard,   M  A 

1864-1869. 

Vol.  1.  Annales  de  Marfan,  1006-1232;  Annales  de  Theokes- 
beria,  1006-1263  ;     Annales  de  Burton,   1004-1203. 

Vol.  II.  Annales  Monasterii  de  Wintouia,  519-1277  ;  Annales 
Monasterii   de  Waverleia,    1-1291. 

Vol.  III.  Annales  Prioratus  de  Dunstaplia,  1-1297.  Annales 
Monasterii  de  Bermundeseia,   1042-1432. 

Vol.  IV.  Annales  Monasterii  de  Oseneia,  1010-1347  ;  Chronicon 
vulgo  dictum  Chronicon  Thomae  Wykes,  1000-1289  ;  Annales 
Prioratus  de  Wigornia,  1-1377.     (Out  of  print.) 

Vol.  V.     Index  and  Glossary.    (Out  of  print.) 

37.  Magna  Vita  S.  Hugonis  Episcopi  Lincolniensis.     Edited  by  the 

Rev.  J.  F.  Dimock,  M.A.     1804. 

38.  Chronicles  and   Memorials  of  the   Reign   of   Richard   the 

First.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.     1864-1865. 
Vol.  I.     Itinerarium  Peregrtnorum  etOksta  Regis  Ricardi. 
Vol.  II.     Epistolte  Cantuarienses  ;    the  Letters  of  the  Prior 
and  Convent  of  Christ  Church,  Canterbury  ;     1187  to  1199. 

39.  Recueil  des  Croniques  et  anchiennes  Istories  de  la  Grant 

Bretaigne  a  present  nomme  Engleterre,  par  Jehan  de 
Waurin.  Vol.  L,  Albina  to  088.  Vol.  II.,  1399-1422.  Vol. 
III.,  1422-1431.  Edited  by  W.  Hardy.  1804-1879;  Vol.  IV., 
1431-1447.  Vol.  V.,  1447-1471.  Edited  by  Sir  W.  Hardy  and 
E.  L.  C.  P.  Hardy.     1884-1891. 

40.  A  Collection  of  the  Chronicles  and  Ancient  Histori es  of 

Great  Britain,  now  called  England,  by  John  de  Waurin. 
Vol.  I.,  Albina  to  088.  Vol.  II.,  1399-1422.  Vol.  III.,  1422- 
1431.  (Translations  of  the  preceding  Vols.  I.,  IT.,  and  111.) 
Edited  and  translated  by  Sir  W.  Hardy  and  E.  L.  C.  P.  11  \i:i>v. 
1804-1891. 

41.  Polychronicon  Ranulphi  HlGDEN,   with   Trevisa's  Translation. 

Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  b//  the  Rev.  ( '.  Babington,  B.D.  :  Vols. 
III.-IX.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  R.   Lumby,  D.D.      1865-1886. 

42.  Le  Livere  de  Reis  de  Brittanie  e  Le   Livebe   de   Reis    de 

Engletere.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  GLOVEB,  .M.A.      1865. 

43.  Chronica  Monasterii  de  Melsa  ai:  anno  L150  DSQUE  \i>  anntjw 

1406.  Vols.  I.-III.     Edited  by  E.  A.  Bond.     1800-  1m 

44.  Matth^ei    Parisiexsis    Histoki  \    Anglobum,    sive    it    \n 

dicitur  Historia  .Minor.  Vols.  I.-III.  L067-1253.  Edited  by 
Sir  F.  Madden.     1860-18(19.     (Vol.  HI.  Out  of  print.) 

45.  Liber  Monasterii    DE    Byda  :      a  CHRONICLE  am>  Chabtuxaby 

of  Hyde  Abbey,  Winohi  Era  e  b,  455- 1023.  EdiU  d  by  E.  Ki>\\  \i;ns. 
I860. 


10 

CROHIOOM    BOOTOBUM.      A    OhBOMTOLI    01    luisn    Affairs,    from 

tho  Mrlieal  ttmei  to  1130 ;  md  Supplement,  oontaining  the 
erenti  from  MM  to  1 1  "■<).     Edited,  with  Translation,  by  \V.  M. 

II  v.      I860. 

IT  Tin:  Chronicle  01  I'ikuuk  DH  I.wutoft  in  French  Verse,  FROM 
Tin:  ■ABXJE8T  PI  MOD  to  the  DI  \  I  IB  OW  Edward  I.      Vols.  I.  and 

II.  Edited  by  T.  Weight,  M.A.     18GG-1868. 

iv  Tin:  \V\u  of  Tin:  (I  \eimiii.  with  the  (Iaim,  or  The  Invasions  of 
litrnvn  iiy  the  DANES  LND  other  Norsemen.  Edited,  with  a 
Translation,  by  the  Rev.  J.  H.  Todd,  D.D.      1867. 

49.  Gesta  Regis  Hemuci  Secundi  Benedicti  Abbatis.     Chronicle 

of  thi:  Reigns  of  1 1  i:\uv  II.  and  Richard  I.,  1109-1192,  known 
under  the  name  of  Benedict  of  Pktkruorouoh.  Vols.  I.  and  II. 
(Vol.  II.  Out  of  print.)  Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A. 
1867. 

50.  MtTNIMENTA   ACADEMICA,   OR  DOCUMENTS  ILLUSTRATIVE  OF  ACADE- 

MICAL Life  and  Studies  at  Oxford  (in  Two  Parts).  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  H.  Anstey,  M.A.     1808. 

51.  Chronica  Maoistri  Rooeri  de  Houedene.     Vols.  I. -IV.     Edited 

by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.  1808-1871.  (Vols.  I.  and  IV. 
Out  of  print.) 

52.  Willelmi    Malmesbiriensis    Monachi    de  Gestis  Pontificum 

Anglorum  Libri  Quinque.  Edited  by  N.  E.  S.  A.  Hamilton. 
1870. 

53.  Historic  and  Municipal  Documents  of  Ireland,  from  the 

archives  of  the  City  of  Dublin,  &c.  1172-1320.  Edited  by 
J.  T.  Gilbert.     1870. 

54.  The   Annals   of   Loch   Ce.     A  Chronicle   of  Irish  AlFfairs, 

1014-1590.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited,  with  a  Translation,  by 
W.  M.  Hennessy.      1871.     {Out  of  print.) 

55.  Monumenta  Juridica.     The  Black  Book  of  the  Admiralty, 

with  Appendices.  Vols.  I. -IV.  Edited  by  Sir  T.  Twiss,  Q.C., 
D.C.L.     1871-1876.    (Vols.  I.,  II.,  and  IV.  Out  of  print.) 

56.  Memorials  of  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.  : — Official  Correspon- 

dence of  Thomas  Bekynton,  Secretary  to  Henry  VI.,  and 
Bishop  of  Bath  and  Wells.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  G.  Williams, 
B.D.     Vols.  I.  and  II.      1872. 

57.  Matth^ei  Parisiensis,  monachi  Sancti  Albani,  Chronica  Majora 

Vol.  I.     The  Creation  to  A.D.  1066.     Vol.  II.  1067  to  1216.     Vol. 

III.  1216  to  1239.  Vol.  IV.  1240  to  1247.  Vol.  V.  1248  to  1259. 
Vol.  VI.  Additamenta.  Vol.  VII.  Index.  Edited  by  the  Rev. 
H.  R.  Luard,  D.D.      1872-1884.     (Vols.  II.  to  V.  Out  of  print.) 

58.  Memoriale  Fratris  Walteri  de  Coventria. — The  Historical 

Collections  of  Walter  of  Coventry.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited 
by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.     1872-1873. 

59.  The  Anglo-Latin  Satirical  Poets  and  Epigrammatists  of  the 

Twelfth  Century.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Collected  and  edited  by 
T.  Wright,  M.A.     1872.     (Vol.  II.  Out  of  print.) 


17 

60.  Materials  for  a  History  of  the  Reign  of  Henry  VII..  from 

original  Documents  preserved  in  the  Public  Record  ( >i •■> 
Vols.  I.  and  II.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Campbell,  M.A.     187.'!- 
1877. 

61.  Historical  Papers  and  Letters  from  the  Northern  Regis- 

ters.    Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Raine,  M.A.      1873. 

62.  Registrum  Palatinum  Dunelmense.     The  Register  of  Richard 

de  Kellawe,  Lord  Palatine  and  Bishop  of  Durham  ;     LSI  I 
1316.     Vols.  I.-IV.     Edited  by  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L.       187:5- 
1878. 

63.  Memorials    of    St.    Dunstan,    Archbishop    of    Canterbury. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  M.A.     1874. 

64.  Chronicon  Angli^e,  ab  anno  domini  1328  usque  ad  annum  1388, 

Auctore  Monacho  Quodam  Sancti  Albani.  Edited  by  E.  M. 
Thompson.     1874. 

65.  Thomas  Saga  Erkibyskups.     A  Life  of  Archbishop  Thomas 

Becket,  in  Icelandic.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited,  with  English 
Translation,  Notes,  and  Glossary,  by  M.  Eirikr  Magnusson,  M.A. 

1875-1883. 

66.  Radulphi  de  Coggeshall  Chronicon  Anglicanum.     Edited  by 

the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson,  M.A.     1875. 

67.  Materials  for  the  History  of  Thomas  Becket,  Archbishop  of 

Canterbury.  Vols.  I. -VI.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  C  Robertson, 
M.A.  1875-1883  ;  Vol.  VII.  Edited  by  J.  B.  Sheppard,  LL.D. 
1885. 

68.  Radulfi  de  Diceto,  Decani  Lundoniensis,  Opera  Historica. 

The  Historical  YVorks  of  Master  Ralph  de  Diceto,  Dean 
of  London.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs, 
M.A.     1876. 

69.  Roll  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  King's  Council  in  Ireland, 

for  a  portion  of  the  16th  year  of  the  reign  of  rlchard  ii. 
1392-93.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Graves,  B.A.     1877. 

70.  Henrici  de  Bracton  de  Legibus  et  Consuetudinibus  Angi.i  e 

Libri  Quinque  in  varios  tractatus  distincti.  Vols.  I.-VI. 
Edited  by  Sir  T.  Twiss,  Q.C.,  D.C.L.  1878-1883.  (Vols.  II.-V. 
Out  of  print.) 

71.  The  Historians  of  the  Church  of  York  and  its  Archbishops. 

Vols.  I.-III.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Raine,  M.A.  1879-1894. 
(Vol.  I.  Out  of  print.) 

72.  Registrum  Malmesburiense.     The   Register  of  Mu.mesbury 

Abbey,  preserved  in  the  Ptjbijo  Record  Office.  Vols.  I. 
and  II.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Brewer,  M.A.,  and  C.  T. 
Martin,  B.A.     1879-1880. 

73.  Historical  works  of  Gebvase  of  Canterbury.     Vols.  I.  and  1 1. 

Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs,  D.D.  1879-1880.  (Vol.  II. 
Out  of  print. ) 

74.  Henrici  Archidiacovi    Huntendunensis    IIistorm    taoiOBXTM 

The  History  op  the  Bnolish,  by  Bbnby,  Abohdbaoos  oi 
Huntingdon,  from  a.d.  55  to  a.d.  1 164,  in  Bight  Books.     Bdittd 

by  T.  Arnold,    M.A.     1879. 

B 


Is 

0XI0A1    WOBMB  01  Svmi'mv  Of  1  M'ltn  \m.      Vols.  T.  and  TI. 
I      \kn..!  o,  II.  A.      1x82-1885. 

7ft,    ('iiiiiiMcii:  Of  mi:  Rm  l'i>\\  \ki>  I.  and  BiBWA&D  II.      Vols. 

I.  and  II.      Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stihuis.  D.l).      1882-1883. 

77.    Kioisikim    I'.risroi  m;im    Kit  vntis    JOKAMHIB    I'likiiwi.    Aiti'in- 
■FDOOPI  GASTUABISN8I8.       Volfl.   I.    III.       I:'<litrd  by  C.  T.  MARTIN, 

B.A-     1888-1886. 

78     R       i^ter  of  S.  Osmund.     Vols.  I.  and  II.     Edited  by  the  Rev. 
\V.  H.  Riot  Jonbs,  M.A.     1883-1884. 

CiiMin -i.miv  of  thk   Abbey  of  Ramsey.     Vols.  I. -III.     Edited 
by  W.  H.  Hart,  and  the  Rev.  P.  A.  Lyons.     1884-1893. 

80.  Chartuxakii is  o>  St.  Mary's  Abbey,  Dublin,  with  the  Register 

0»  its  BOUSE  \t  DrsimiiDY,  county  of  Wexford,  and  Annals 
[BJELAND,    1162-1370.       Vols.    I.    and    II.     Edited   by   J.    T. 
Gilbert.      1884-1885. 

81.  Eadmeri  Historia  Novorum  in  Anglia  et  opuscula  duo  de 

vita  Sancti  Anselmi  et  quibusdam  miraculis  ejus.  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  M.  Rule,  M.A.      1884. 

82.  Chronicles  of  the  Reigns  of  Stephen,  Henry  II.,  and  Richard 

I.     Vols.   I. -IV.     Edited  by  R.   Howlett.      1884-1889. 

83.  Chronicle  of  the  Abbey  of  Ramsey.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  D. 

Macray,  M.A.      1886. 

84.  Chronica   Rogeri   de   Wendover,   sive   Flores   Historiarum. 

Vols.  I.-III.     Edited  by  E.  G.  Hewlett.     1886-1889. 

85.  The    Letter    Hooks   of   the   Monastery   of   Christ   Church, 

C  LNTKBBURY.  Vols.  I.-III.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  B.  Sheppard, 
I.L.I).      1887-1889. 

86.  The  Metrical  Chronicle  of  Robert  of  Gloucester.     Edited 

by  W.  A.  Wbioht,  M.A.     Parts  I.  and  II.       1887. 

87.  Chronicle  of  Robert  of  Brunne.     Edited  by  F.  J.  Furnivall, 

M.A.     Parts  I.   and   II.      1887. 

88.  I'  elandic  Sagas  and  other  Historical  Documents  relating  to 

the  Settlements  and  Descents  of  the  Northmen  on  the  British 
Isles.  Vol.  I.  Orkneyinga  Saga,  and  Magnus  Saga.  Vol.  II. 
Hakonar  Sa^a,  and  Magnus  Saga.  Edited  by  Gudbrand  Vig- 
fussox,  M.A.  1887.  Vols.  III.  and  IV.  Translations  of  the 
above  by  Sir  G.  W.  Dasent,  D.C.L.      1894. 

89.  The    Tripartite    Life    of    Patrick,    with     other     documents 

relating  to  that  Saint.  Edited  by  W.  Stokes,  LL.D.,  D.C.L. 
Parts  I.  and  II.      1887.     (Out  of  Print.) 

90.  Willelmi  Malmesbiriensis  Monachi  de  Gestis  Regum  Anglo- 

rum  libri  V.  ;  et  Historic  Novella,  libri  III.  Edited  by 
W.  Stubbs,  D.D.,  Bishop  of  Oxford.  Vols.  I.  and  II.  1887- 
1889. 

91.  Lestorie    des    Engles    solum    Geffrei    Gaimar.      Edited    by 

Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  D.C.L.  ;  continued  and  translated  by  C.  T. 
Martin,  B.A.     Vols.  I.  and  II.     1888-1889. 


19 

92.  Chronicle  of  Henry  Knighton,  Canon  of  Leicester.     Vols.  I. 

and  II.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  R.  Lumhy,  D.D.      1889-1895. 

93.  Chronicle  of  Adam  Murimuth,  with  the  Chronicle  of  Robert 

of  Avesbury.      Edited  by  E.  M.  Thompson,  LL.D.     1889. 

94.  Register  of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  Dublin. 

Edited  by  J.  T.  Gilbert.     1889. 

95.  Flores  Historiarum.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  H.  R.  Luard,  D.D. 

Vol.  I.  The  Creaton  to  a.d.  1066.  Vol.  II.  1067-1264.  Vol. 
III.    1265-1326.     1890. 

96.  Memorials   of  St.   Edmund's   Abbey.     Edited  by  T.   Arnold, 

M.A.     Vols.  I.-III.     1890-1896. 

97.  Charters  and  Documents  illustrating  the  history  of  the 

Cathedral  and  City  of  Sarum,  1100-1300;  forming  an  Appendix 
to  the  Register  of  S.  Osmund.  Selected  by  the  Rev.  \V.  H. 
Rich  Jones,  M.A.,  and  edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  D.  Macray,  M.A. 
1891. 

98.  Memoranda  de  Parliamento,  33  Edward  I.     1305.     Edited  by 

F.  W.  Maitland,  M.A.     1893. 

99.  The  Red  Book  of  the  Exchequer.     Edited  by  H.  Hall.     Parts 

I.-III.     1896. 


ACTS    AND    ORDINANCES    OF    Till: 
INTERREGNUM,     L642-1660, 


Collected    and   Edited 

by   0.    H.    Firth    and    R.    S.    Rait 

for  the  Statute  Law  Committee. 


In    3    VOLS,   (not   sold    soparatoly). 

Price: — Thirty    Sim. linos. 

Obtainable  in  the  manner  Hhown  on  tho  (irst  page  of  tin    Ult 


80 

PUBLICATIONS 
OF  THE  RECORD  COMMISSIONERS.  &c. 

In  i  olotfa      Volume!  not  mentioned  In  this  list  arc  out  of  print. 


Rotuloru.m  OiiiiiiNM.ii-M   i\  (i  i:i\  S.  \<  <  \ui i  A iiiiKKVi atio.     Hoiiry  III. — 

Bdw.  III.      Edited  by  11.  I'iavfori)  (1805-1810).     2  Vols,  folio.      12a.  Od. 

eacli. 
CAiKM'AiurM    l \. ,'i  i  -n  iiimm    Post    Mortem    btvb    Escaetarum.     Edited 
i     I    m  rv   and    I     I'.vm'v   (1800-1828).     Folio.     Vols.    1,   2,   3,   21a. 
h  ;     Vi>1.    I.   2  1 1, 
Ni'NAiniM    I  \(.ti-.itmni:s   is    Cubia   Scaccarii.     Edited  by  G.   Vanderzee 

(1807).     Folio.     18a. 
LiHitonrM  M  \\i  si  mrnmi'M  Bibliotiikck  Hahi.kian^e  Catalogus.     4  Vols. 

Ed  the  Rev.  T.   H.   Hohnk  (1812).     Folio.      18s.  each. 

Abbreviate  Pi  L<  ETORim.    Hichard  I. — Edward  II.    Edited  by  the  Right  Hon. 

(J.    ROSS  and   \Y.    li  unouokth  (1S11).      Folio.      18a. 
LlBBB   Censualis  vooati    Domesday-Book.     Folio.  Vol.    4,  Additamenta  ex 

lie.  Antiquiaa(1816).     Edited  by  Sir  H.   Ellis.     21a. 
Statutes  ok  tut.  Realm.      h'd-'ti  I  hi/  Sir  T.  E.  Tomlins,  J.  Raituhy,  J.  Caley 

and  W.  Elliott  (1824    L828).  '  Folio.     Vols,  6  to  9.  31*.  M.  each. 
Valor   EOOUCSIASTIOTJB,   temp.    Hen.    VULL,    Auctoritate     Regia    institutus. 

Edited  by  J.  Caley  and  the  Rev.  J.  Hunter  (1825-1834).     Vols  1  to  6, 

folio.     25a.  each.     The  Introduction,  separately,  8vo.     2a.  6d. 

ROTULI    8<     .1  IK   IN  TURRI   LONDINENSI   ET  IN   DOMO  CAPITULARI   WeSTMONAS- 

terii  ftVATI,  1!)  Edw.  I.— Hen.  VIII.    Edited  by  D.  Macpherson, 

J.   (  \n  v.   W.   Illincwoktii,  and  the  Rev.  T.   H.   Horne  (1814-1818). 

2  Vols,   folio.     42*. 
Fcf.dera,  Convention ks.  Litter.k,  &c.  :  or  Rymer's  Fosoera    New  Edition. 

Folio.      Edited    by    J.    Caley     and    F.     Holbrooke    (1809).      Vol.    4, 

1377-1383,  6*. 
Ducatus    Lanoastbls    Calendariii.m    Inquisitionum    post   Mortem,    &c, 

Edw.  I.— Car.  I.     Edited  by  R.  J.  Harper,  J.  Caley,  and  W.  Minchin 

(1827-1834).      Folio.      Vols!  1  and  2,  31a.  (id.  each  ;    Vol.  3,  21a. 
Calendars  of  the  Proceedings  in  Chancery,  Elizabkth  ;    with  Examples 

of  Proceedings  from  Rie.  II.     Edited  by  .J.  Bayley  (1832).     3  Vols,  folio. 

21a.  each. 
Parliamentary  Writs  and  Writs  of  Military  Summons,  with  Records  and 

Muniments  relating  to  Suit  and  Service  to  Parliament,  etc.     Edw.   II. 

Edited  by  Sir  F.  I'alorave  (1830-1834).      Folio.     Vol.   1,  21a.  ;    Vol.  2, 

Divisions,   1.  2,  21a.  each. 
Rotui.i  Litterarum  Clausarum  in  Turri  Londinensi  asservati.     2  Vols. 

folio.     Edited  by  T.   D.  Hardy  (1833-1844).      Vol.  2,  1224-1227,  18a. 
Proceedings    and    Ordinances    of    the    Privy    Council    of    England. 

Ki  Ric.  II.— 33  Hen.  VIII.     Edited  by  Sir  N.  H.  Nicolas  (1834-1837). 

Vols.  4  to  7.     8vo.      14a.  each. 
Rotuli  Litterarum    Patentium   in   Turri   Lond.   asservati.    1201-1216. 

Edited  by  T.   D.  Hardy  (1835).      1   Vol.  folio,  31s.  6d.     (Out  of  print.) 

The  Introduction,  separately,  8vo.     9a. 
Rotuli  Normanni.?;  in  Turri  Lond.  asservati.      1200-1205;    1417-1418. 

Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1835).     8vo.      12a.  M. 
Rotuli  de  Oblatis  et  Finibus  in  Turri  Lond.  asservati,  temp.  Regis 

Johannis.     Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1835).     8vo.      18a. 

EXCERPTA  E  ROTULIS  FlNIUM  IN  TURRI  LONDINENSI    ASSERVATI.       Henry    III. 

1216-1272.  Edited  by  C.  Roberts  (1835-1836).  8vo.  Vol.  1,  14a. 
Vol.  2,   18a. 

Fines,  sive  Pedes  Finium  :  sive  Finales  Concordia  in  Curia  Domini 
Regis.  7  Richard  1.— 16  John,  1195-1214.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J. 
Hunter  (1835-1844).     In  Counties.     8vo.     Vol.  2,  2a.  6d. 

Ancient  Kalendars  and  Inventories  of  the  Treasury  of  His  Majesty's 
Exchequer  ;  with  Documents  illustrating  its  History.  Edited  by  Sir  F. 
Palgrave  (1836).     3  Vols.  8vo.     42a. 

Documents  and  Records  illustrating  the  History  of  Scotland,  and  Trans- 
actions between  Scotland  and  England  ;  preserved  in  the  Treasury  of 
Her  Majesty's  Exchequer.  Edited  by  Sir  F.  Palgrave  (1837).  8vo. 
18a. 


21 

ROTULI    CHARTABUM   IN    TURRI    LoNDINENSI    ASSERVATI.        1199-1216         Ed 

by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1837).     Folio.     3Q». 

Report  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  Record    Commission ebb    1831    16 
Folio  (1837).     8s. 

Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  England  ;  comprising  Laws  snooted  an 
the  Anglo-Saxon  Kings,  with  translation  ot  the  Saxon  ;    the  I 
Edward  the  Confessor's  ;    the  Laws  of  William  the  Conqueror,  and  those 
ascribed  to  Henry  I.  ;    Monuments  Booleeiastioa  Anglicans,  irum  7t!. 
10th   century;     and  Ancient   Latin   Version   of    the   Anglo  Saxon    La 
Edited  by  B.  Thorpe.      1   Vol.   folio,  40s.     2  Vols.   8vo.,  3<  .1 

is  out  of  print.) 

Ancient  Laws  and  Institutes  of  Wales  ;   comprising  Laws  Buppoeed  to  be 
enacted  by  Howel  the  Good,  modified  by  Regulations  prior  to  the  Conqu 
by  Edward  I.  ;    and  anomalous  Laws,  principally  of  Institutions  which 
continued  in   force.     With   translation.     Also,    Latin   Transcripts,   o> 
taining  Digests  of  Laws,  principally  of  the   Dimetian  Code.      Edited  l>y 
Aneurin  Owen  (1841).      1  Vol.  folio.     44*.     2  Vols.  8vo.,  36s. 

Rotuli  de  Liberate  ac  de  Misis  et  Pr^stitis,  Regnant©  Johanne.  Edited 
by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1844).     8vo.     6s. 

Documents  Illustrative  of  English  History  in  tho  13th  and  14th  centuries, 
from  the  Records  of  the  Queen's  Remembrancer  in  the  Exchequer.  Edited 
by  H.  Cole  (1844).     Folio.     45s.  tie/. 

Modus  Tenendi  Parliamentum.  An  Ancient  Treatise  on  the  Modo  of  holding 
the  Parliament  in  England.  Edited  by  T.  D.  Hardy  (1846).  8vo. 
2s.   &d. 

Registrum  Magni  Sigilli  Regum  Scotorum  in  Archivis  Publicis  asservatum. 
Vol.  I.  1306-1424.  (For  New  Edition  of  this  Vol.,  mnl  for  continuation 
of  series,  seepage  35.)     Editedby  T.  Thomson  (  LSI  4).     Folio.      10s.  i;,/. 

Acts  of  the  Parliaments  of  Scotland.  Edited  by  l'.  Thomson  and  C.  Ixm  s 
(1814-1875).  Folio.  Vol.  1,  42s.  ;  Vols.  2,  3.  and  4,  10s.  (i</.  each  ; 
Vols.  5  and  6  (in  three  Parts),  21s.  each  Part ;  Vols.  7,  8,  9,  10,  and  11, 
10s.  6d.  each;  Vol.  12  (Index),  63s.  Or,  12  Vols,  in  13,  12/.  12s. 
(A  Revised  Edition  of  the  Acts  of  the  Parliaments  of  Scotland,  1424-1707, 
was  published  in  1908  for  the  Statute  Law  Committee.      1  Vol.      10s.) 

Acts  of  the  Lords  Auditors  of  Causes  and  Complaints  (Acta  Dominoium 
Auditorum).  1466-1494.  Edited  by  T.  Thomson  (1839).  Folio. 
10s.   6d. 

Acts  of  the  Lords  of  Council  in  Civil  Causes  (Acta  Dominorum  Concilii). 
1478-1495.     Edited  by  T.  Thomson  (1839).     Folio.     10s.   tid. 

Issue  Roll  of  Thomas  de  Brantingham,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  Lord  High 
Treasurer,  containing  Payments  out  of  the  Revenue,  44  Edw.  HI.,  1370. 
Edited  by  F.  Devon.     8vo.,  25s. 

Issues  of  the  Exchequer,  Henry  III. — Henry  VI.  ;  from  the  Pell  Records. 
Edited  by  F.  Devon.     4to.,  40s.     Or,  8vo.  30s. 

Issues  of  the  Exchequer,  James  I.  ;  from  the  Pell  Records.  Edited  by 
F.  Devon  (1836).     4to.,  30s.     Or,  8vo.  21  *. 

Historical  Notes  relative  to  the  History  of  England.  Henrj  VI 11. — 
Anne,  1509-1714.  A  Book  ot  Reference  for  ascertaining  the  Dates  of 
Events.     By  F.  S.  Thomas  (1856).     3  Vols.  8vo.     40*. 

State  Papers,  during  the  reign  of  Henry  the  Eighth  :     with  IndiceB  of 
Persons  and  Places.     11  Vols.  4to.  (1830-1852).     10s.  64.  each. 
Vol.    I. — Domestic   Correspondence. 
Vols    II.  and  III. — Correspondence  relating  to  Ireland. 
Vols.  IV.  and  V. — Correspondence  relating  to  Scotland. 
Vols.  VI.  to  XL — Correspondence  between  England  and  Foreign  Courts. 

Monumenta  Historica  Britannica.  Edited  by  EL  I'inui.,  the  Rev.  J. 
Sharpe,  and  T.  D.  Hardy  (1848).     Folio.     42s. 


REPORTS  ON  THE  UTRECHT  PSALTER. 

The  Atuanasian  Creed  in  Connexion  with  the  I  rui.cn  i  B  ,    being 

a  Report  to  the  Right  Honourable  Lord  Ronnlly.   Master  of  'In'   Rolls, 
on  a  Manuscript  in  the  University  of  Utrocht,  by  Sir  I    1)11  vm-v.  l>.' 
1872.     4to.     2  facsimiles.     20s. 

Further  Report  on  the  l  tueciit  Psalter;  in  answer  to  the  Eighth  Report 
made  to  the  Trustees  of  tho  British  Museum,  and  edited  by  the  !»••  m  of 
Westminster.     By  Sir  T.  D.  Hardy,  lU'.L    1874-      Lto    10 


•  >.) 


WORKS    PUBLISHED    IN    PHOTOZINCOGRAPHY. 


Domesi>  w  Boos,  or  the  Obi  ltSubvby  oi  England  of  William  th» 

Bimile  of  the  Pari  relating  to  each  county , 
parately  (with  n  few  exceptions  <>f  double  counties)!     Photo- 
linoographed    at    the    Ordnanoe    Survey     Office,    Southampton. 
1'r.c.    £20.     [Out  of  print.) 

Domesday  Book  whs  printed  verbatim  et  literatim  during  the  18th 
oentury,  in  run  ■•  of  an  address  of  tho  House  of  Lords  to 

King  Qeorgs  ill.  m  1767.  it  was  not,  however,  commenced  until 
1773,  iumI  was  completed  early  in  1783.  In  18(30,  Her  Majesty's 
Government,  with  the  concurrence  of  the  Master  of  the  Rolls, 
determined  to  apply  tho  art  of  photozincography  in  the  pro- 
duction of  a  fac  simile  of  Domesday  Book. 

Also  separately  by  Counties  : — 

In  (Ireat  Domesday  Book.        Price.  Price. 
Bedfordshire           -         -  -     8/0  Middlesex      -         -         -         -     8/0 
Berkshire      -         -  -     8/0  Northamptonshire           -         -     8/0 
Buckingham             -         -  -     8/0  Nottinghamshire              -         -   10/0 
Cambridge    -                                   10/0  Oxfordshire  -         -         -         -     8/0 
Cheshire  and  Lancashire  -     8/0  Rutlandshire     (see     Leicester- 
Cornwall                  -                          8/0  shire)      - 
Derbyshire    -                                     8/0  Shropshire 
Devonshire              -         -              10/0  Somersetshire  >(out  of  print) 
Dorsetshire  -         -         -  -     8/0  Staffordshire     j 

Gloucestershire  (out  of  print)  Surrey  -         -         -         -     8/0 

Hampshire    -                                   10/0  Sussex  -                                    10/0 

Herefordshire         -         -  -     8/0  Warwickshire  (out  of  print) 

Hertfordshire         -                        10/0  Wiltshire       -  10/0 

Huntingdonshire   -         -  -     8/0  Worcestershire       -         -         -     8/0 

Kent  (out  of  print)  Yorkshire  (out  of  print) 
Lancashire  (see  Cheshire  and 

Lancashire)     -  In  Little  Domesday  Book. 

Leicestershire     and     Rutland-  Essex  -----  16/0 

shire                 -         -  -     8/0  Norfolk          -                                  23/0 

Lincolnshire            -         -  -  21/0  Suffolk           -         -                   -  22/0 

Translation  of  the  Domesday  Book  : — Cornwall,  5/0. 

Fac-similes  of  National  Manuscripts,  from  William  the  Con- 
queror to  Queen  Anne,  selected  under  the  direction  of  the 
Master  of  the  Rolls  and  Photozincographed  by  the  Ordnance 
Survey,  and  edited  by  W.  Basevi  Sanders.  Price,  each  Part, 
with  translations  and  notes,  16s. 

Part  I.  (William  the  Conqueror  to  Henry  VII.).      1865. 

Part  II.  (Henry  VII.  and  Edward  VI.).     1866. 

Part  III.  (Mary  and  Elizabeth).     1867. 

Part  IV.  (James  I.  to  Anne).      1868. 

The  6rst  Part  extends  from  William  the  Conqueror  to 
Henry  VII.,  and  contains  autographs  of  the  kings  of  England, 
as  well  as  of  many  other  illustrious  personages  famous  in  history, 
and  some  interesting  charters,  letters  patent,  and  state  papers. 
The  second  Part,  for  the  reigns  of  Henry  VIII.  and  Edward  VI., 
consists  principally  of  holograph  letters,  and  autographs  of  kings, 
princes,  statesmen,  and  other  persons  of  great  historical  interest, 
who  lived  during  those  reigns.  The  third  Part  contains  similar 
documents  for  the  reigns  of  Mary  and  Elizabeth,  including 
a  signed  bill  of  Lady  Jane  Grey.  The  fourth  Part  concludes 
the  series,  and  comprises  a  number  of  documents  taken  from 
the  originals  belonging  to  the  Constable  of  the  Tower  of  London  ; 
also  several  records  illustrative  of  the  Gunpowder  Plot,  and  a 
woodcut  containing  portraits  of  Mary  Queen  of  Scots  and 
James  VI.,  circulated  by  theix  adherents  in  England,  1580-3. 


23 

Fac-similes    of    Anqw-Saxok     Manuscripts.     Photozi  phed 

by  the  Ordxanci;  Subvby,  and  edited  by  W.  Baskvi  SaWers. 

Fart  J.     Price  21.  10a. 

The  Ango-Saxon  MSS.  represented  in  this  volume  form  the 
earlier  portions  of  the  collection  of  archives  belonging  to  the 
Dean  and  Chapter  of  Canterbury,  and  consist  of  a  series  of 
2o  charters,  deeds,  and  wills,  commencing  with  a  record  of 
proceedings  at  the  first  Synodal  Council  of  Qoveeho  in  742 
and  terminating  with  the  first  part  of  a  tripartite  chirograph 
of  the  sixth  year  of  the  reign  of  Edward  the  Confessor. 

Part  LI.     Price  32.  10s. 

(Also  separately.     Edward  the  Confessor's  Charter,     /v 

The  originals  of  the  fac-similes  contained  in  this  volume  belong 
to  the  Deans  and  Chapters  of  Westminster.  Exeter,  Wells, 
Winchester,  and  Worcester;  the  Marquis  of  Hath,  the  Earl  ol 
Ilchester,  Winchester  College,  Her  Majesty's  Public  Record  Office, 
Bodleian  Library,  Somersetshire  Archaeological  and  National 
History  Society's  Museum  in  Taunton  Castle,  ami  William  Salt 
Library  at  Stafford.  They  consist  of  charters  and  other 
documents  granted  by,  or  during  the  reigns  of,  Baldred,  /Ethelred, 
Offa,  and  Burgred,  Kings  of  Mercia  ;  Uhtred  of  the  Huii 
Caedwalla  and  Ini  of  Wessex  ;  /Ethelwulf,  Eadward  the  Elder, 
/Ethelstan,  Eadmund  the  First,  Eadred,  Eadwig,  Eadgar, 
Eadward  the  Second,  /Ethelred  the  Second,  Cnut,  Eadward  the 
Confessor,  and  WUliam  the  Conqueror,  embracing  altogether 
a  period  of  nearly  four  hundred  years. 

Part  III.     Price  61.  6s. 

This  volume  contains  facsimiles  of  the  Ashburnham  Collection 
of  Anglo-Saxon  Charters,  &c,  including  King  Alfred's  will.  The 
MSS.  represented  in  it  range  from  A.D.  697  to  A.D.  1161,  haing 
charters,  wills,  deeds,  and  reports  of  Synodal  transactions  during 
the  reigns  of  Kings  Wihtred  of  Kent,  Offa,  Eardwulf,  Goenwulf, 
Cuthred,  Beornwulf,  /Ethelwulf,  Alfred,  Eadward  the  Elder, 
Eadmund,  Eadred,  Queen  Eadgifu,  and  Kings  Eadgar,  /Ethelred 
the  Second,  Cnut,  Henry  the  First,  and  Henry  the  Second.  In 
addition  to  these  are  two  belonging  to  the  Marquis  of  Anglesey, 
one  of  them  being  the  Foundation  Charter  of  Burton  Abbey  by 
/Ethelred  the  Second,  with  the  testament  of  its  great  benefactor 
Wulfric. 


u 


HISTORICAL     MANUSCRIPTS    COMMISSION 


REPORTS      OF      THE      ROY  W       ...'III  \IT.iINTKD      TO      INQUIKK      WHAT 

PAPBB8        AND        MAXUSCQUFTS        UKl.ONCHNO       TO        IMUVATK        IAM1I.IKS       AND 

iN-iin  no\<     auf.     rviwr     which     woim.d     he     ok     utility     in     the 

II  I  IM'i;  \TK>\    OF    HISTORY',    CONSTITUTIONAL    LAW,    SCIENCE,    AND    OENERAL 
L1T1KATI  HE. 


.  to  Ninth  Report,  Part  III.,  inclusive,  F'cap  ;    alter  that,  8vo.) 


(Dates  in  parentheses  show  years  of  Reprints.) 


1870 

(1S74) 


1^71 


1^72 
(1895) 


1873 


1873 
1876 


1876 


First  Report,  with  Appendix 

England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Cambridge 
Colleges ;  Abingdon,  and  other  Cor- 
porations, &c.  Scotland.  Advocates' 
Library,  Glasgow  Corporation,  &c. 
Ireland.  Dublin,  Cork,  and  other 
Corporations,  &c. 

Second    Report,    with    Appendix,    and 
Index     to     the     First     and     Second 

Reports        

England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Cambridge 
Colleges  ;  Oxford  Colleges ;  Monas- 
tery of  Dominican  Friars  at  Wood- 
chester,  Duke  of  Bedford,  Earl  Spencer, 
&c.  Scotland.  Aberdeen  and  St. 
Andrew's  Universities,  &c.  Ireland. 
Marquis  of  Ormonde  ;  Dr.   Lyons,  &c. 

Third  Report,  with  Appendix  and  Index 
England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Cambridge 
Colleges  ;  Stonyhurst  College  ;  Bridg- 
water and  other  Corporations  ;  Duke 
of  Northumberland,  Marquis  of  Lans- 
downe,  Marquis  of  Bath,  &c.  Scot- 
land. University  of  Glasgow  ;  Duke 
of  Montrose,  &c.  Ireland.  Marquis  of 
Ormonde  ;  Black  Book  of  Limerick,  &c. 

Fourth  Report,  with  Appendix.  Part  I. 
England.  House  of  Lords  ;  West- 
minster Abbey  ;  Cambridge  and 
Oxford  Colleges  ;  Cinque  Ports,  Hythe, 
and  other  Corporations ;  Marquis  of 
Bath,  Earl  of  Denbigh,  &c.  Scotland. 
Duke  of  Argyll,  &c.  Ireland.  Trinity 
College,  Dublin ;  Marquis  of  Or- 
monde. 

Ditto.     Part  II.     Index 

Fifth  Report,  with  Appendix.  Part  I. 
England.  House  of  Lords  ;  Oxford  and 
Cambridge  Colleges  ;  Dean  and 
Chapter  of  Canterbury  ;  Rye,  Lydd, 
and  other  Corporations ;  Duke  of 
Sutherland,  Marquis  of  Lansdowne, 
Reginald  Cholmondeley,  Esq.,  &c. 
Scotland.     Earl  of  Aberdeen,  &c. 

Ditto.     Part  II.     Index 


C.  55 


C.  441 


C.  673 


C.  857 


C.  857-i 
C.   1432 


C.   1432-i 


3   10 


6     0 


6     8 


2     6 
7     0 


3     6 


25 


1878 
(1893) 

1879 
(1895) 


1879 
(1895) 

1881 


issi 


1881 

1883 
(1895) 


Sixth  Report,  with  Appendix.  Part  I. 
England.  House  of  Lord*  ;  Oxford  and 
Cambridge  Colleges  ;  Lambeth  Palace  ; 
Black  Book  of  the  Archdeacon  of  Can- 
terbury ;  Bridport,  Wallingford,  and 
other  Corporations  ;  Lord  Loconheld, 
Sir  Reginald  Graham,  Sir  Henry 
Ingilby,  &c.  Scotland.  Duke  of 
Argyll,  Earl  of  Moray,  &c.  Ireland. 
Marquis  of  Ormonde. 

Ditto.     Part  II.     Index 

Seventh  Report,  with  Appendix.   Part  I. 
House  of  Lords  ;    County  of  Somerset ; 
Earl    of   Egmont,    Sir    Frederick   Gra- 
ham, Sir  Harry  Verney,  &c. 
Ditto.   Part  II.   Appendix  and  Index 

Duke   of   Atholl,    Marquis   of    Ormonde, 
Sir  S.   F.   Livingstone,  &c. 
Eighth     Report,     with     Appendix     and 
Index.     Part  I.         

Re-issued,    1907,    as    Stationery    Office 
publications — 
Report     and     Appendix,     Part    I., 
Section  I.       Price  6a.  8vo  : — 
Duke   of   Marlborough  ;     Earl   of   Ports- 
mouth ;     Earl    of    Jersey  ;     House    of 
Lords  ;     Lord  Emly  ;    Ralph   Bankes, 
Esq.,    Geo.     Wingheld    Digby,    Esq.  ; 
Royal  College  of  Physicians  ;   Corpora- 
tion of  Trinity  House. 

Report  and  Appendix,  Part  I.,  Sec- 
tion II.  1908.  Price  6s.  8vo.  :— 
Magdalen  College,  Oxford  ;  Corporation 
of  Pontefract ;  Lord  Braybrooke ; 
Viscount  Arbuthnott ;  Earl  of 
Glasgow  ;  Miss  Hamilton  of  Burns 
and  Cochno  ;  Alex.  C.  Stuart,  Esq., 
of  Eaglescarnie  ;  Dean  and  Chapter 
of  Canterbury  ;  Corporations  of  Chester 
and  Leicester ;  The  O'Conor  Don, 
M.P.  ;  Lord  Talbot  de  Malahide  ; 
Marquis  of  Ormonde. 

Report  and    Appendix    and    Index. 
Parti.     Section  III.     1909.    Price 
4s.  6d.     8vo  :— 
Earl     of     Denbigh  ;       Trinity     College, 
Dublin  ;    Ewelme  Almshouse  ;    Queen 
Anne's     Bounty  ;       Edw.      Hailstone, 
Esq.  ;     Church   of   St.   Andrew,    Wor- 
cester ;      Bishop      Bubwith's      Alms- 
houses,   Wells;     Dorry    Diocesan    Lib- 
rary :     G.   H.   Finch,   Esq. 
Ditto.     Part  II.      Appendix  and  Index. 
Duke  of  Manchester. 

Rc-ismtcd,   l'.HO,  as  a  Stationary  Office 
publication.     Prioe  3#.  id.     8vo. 
Ditto.      1'akt  III.      Appendix  and  Index. 

Earl  of  Ashburuham. 
Ninth  Report,  with  Aitknuixanh  Inhex. 

Part  I 

St.  Paul's  and  Canterbury  Cathedrals  ; 
Eton  College;  Carlislo,  Yarmouth, 
Canterbury,  and  Burnstaple  Corpora- 
tions, &c. 


C.    1745 


C.   2102 
C.   2340 


C.   2340  i 


C.   3040 


1    10 

7     6 


3     6 


Out  ol 
print. 


('.    3010  i 


C.    30  in  n 


C.  3773 


Out  „l 
print. 

Out  0/ 

print. 


is»i      Ninth  Rbpobt.     I'aht  II.     Appendix  and 
189  i  i 

l !n'.i  \m>.      House    of    Lords ;    Earl    oi 
bei  .    C,   Pole    I  lell,   Alfred   Bior- 
riaon,   Esq*.,  Ac      Boon  mn>.      Lord 
E&lphinstone,    II.    C.    .Maxwell    Stuart, 
.  a.     Ikim.am).    Duke   of    I^inster, 
Marquis  of  Drogheda,  A  r. 
1884      Dm".    PariIII.   Ai'I'kmmx  and  Index    .. 
Kn,  Btopford  Backville  [re-issued,  1904, 
revised  and  extended,  as  Vol.  I.,  Cd. 
1892.      Price   I*.    lOd.     Bvo.] 
I'w.indar    OF    Tin:     Mam  scKii-Ts    or    THE 
.Marouis  ok  Salisbury,   K.G.   (or  Cecil 
BfB8 

Part  1.  1306-1571        

Part  11.  1672-  1582       

Part    111.         1583-1589        

Part   1\  .         1590    1594        

Part  V  1694-1696       

Part  \  :  i.vji,  

Part  VII.       1697  

Part  VIII.     1698  

Part  IX.        1599  

Part  X.  1600  

Part  XL        1601  

Part  XII.      1602  

Tenth  Report        

(Re-issued,    1906,  as  a  Stationery    Office 
Publication.     Price  6d.) 

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 

Appendices  and  Indexes  : 

(1.)  Earl  of  Eglinton,  Sir  J.  S.  Maxwell, 

Bart.,  and  C.  S.  H.  D.  Moray,  C.  F. 

Weston  Underwood,  G.W.  Digby,  Esqs. 

(2.)  The  Family  of  Gawdy 

(3.)  Wells  Cathedral  

[Re-issued,    1906.  revised  and  extended, 

as  Cd.  2810.     2s.  lid.     8vo.] 
(4.)  Earl    of  Westmorland  ;     Capt.   Ste- 
wart ;      Lord     Stafford  ;     Sir    N.    W. 
Throckmorton  ;    Sir  P.  T.  Mainwaring, 
Lord    Muncaster,    M.P.,    Capt.    J.    F. 
Bagot,  Earl  of  Kilmorey,  Earl  of  Powis, 
and     others  ;      the     Corporations     of 
Kendal,    Wenlook,    Bridgnorth,    Eye, 
Plymouth  ;      the    County    of    Essex  ; 
and  Stonyhurst  College. 
(Re-issued.    1906,   as  a  Stationery   Office 
Publication.     Price  6s.) 
1885  (5.)  Marquis  of  Ormonde,  Earl  of  Fingall, 

(1895)  Corporations  of  Galway  and  Waterford, 

Sees  of  Dublin  and  Ossory,  the  Jesuits 
in  Ireland. 
1887  (6.)  Marquisof  Abergavenny;  Lord Braye; 

G.    F.    Luttrell,    P.    P.    Bouverie,    W. 
Bromley  Davenport,  R.T.  Balfour,  Esqs. 

1887      Eleventh  Report         

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 
1887  (1.)  H.      D.      Skrine,      Esq.,       Salvetti 

Correspondence 
1887  (2.)  House  of  Lords,   1678-1688    ..      .. 

1887  (3.)  Corporations  of    Southampton    and 

Lynn 


1883 

1896) 

1888 

1  889 

I  MIL' 

1894 

1899 
1902 
1904 
1906 
1910 
1885 


1885 

lv.;, 

1885 

Iss.j 


18S.3 


No.  of 

Paper. 


Price, 


C.  3773-i 


s.  d 
8    :< 


C.   3773-ii 


C.  4575 


C.   4576-iii 
C.    4576  ii 


C.  4576 


C.  4576-i 

i 
C.  5242 

C.  5060-vi 

C.  5060 

C.  5060-i 
C.  5060-ii 


Out  of 
print. 


c. 

3777 

3  5 

c. 

5463 

3  5 

c. 

t-v 

2  1 

c. 

6823 

2  11 

c. 

767  I 

2  6 

c. 

7884 

2  8 

c. 

9246 

2  8 

c. 

946  7 

2  8 

Cd. 

928 

2  3 

Cd. 

2052 

2  3 

Cd. 

3134 

2  10 

Cd. 

5291 

2  3 

C. 

4548 

Out  of 
print. 

3     7 


1     4 

Out  of 
print. 

Out  of 
print. 


2  10 

1     7 

0  3 

1  1 

2  0 
1     8 


27 


Date. 


No.  of 
Paper. 


Price. 


1887 
1887 
1887 
1888 


1800 


1888 

1888 
1889 

18SS 


1891 
1889 
1890 
1891 
1891 


1891 
1892 


1891 
1893 
1892 

1892 


1892 
1893 


1893 
1893 

1896 


1894 
1894 
1894 


1894 
1890 


Appendices       and 


Eleventh     Report 
Indexes — con/. 

(4.)  Marquess  Tovvnshend        

(5.)  Earl  of  Dartmouth 

(6.)  Duke  of  Hamilton 

(7.)  Duke  of  Leeds,  Marchioness  of 
Waterford,  Lord  Hothfield,  &c.  ; 
Bridgwater  Trust  Office,  Reading 
Corporation,  Inner  Temple  Library. 

Twelfth  Report  

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 

(1.)  Earl  Cowper,  K.G.  (Coke  MSS.,  at 
Melbourne  Hall,  Derby).     Vol.  I. 

(2.)  Ditto.     Vol.   IT 

(3.)  Ditto.     Vol.   Ill 

v4.)  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.     Vol.   I. 

(Re-issued,  1911,  as  a  Stationery  Office 
Publication.     Price  o<.) 

(5.)  Ditto.     Vol.  II 

(6.)  House  of  Lords,   1689-1690    .  . 

(7.)  S.  H.  le  Fleming,  Esq.,  of  Rydal     . . 

(8.)  Duke  of  Athole,  K.T.,  Earl  of  Home 

(9.)  Duke  of  Beaufort,  K.G.,  Earl  of 
Donoughmore  ;  J.  H.  Gurney,  W.  W. 
B.  Hulton.  R.  W.  Ketton,  G.  A. 
Aitken,  P.  V.  Smith,  Esqs.  ;  Bishop 
of  Ely  ;  Cathedrals  of  Ely,  Gloucester, 
Lincoln  and  Peterborough  ;  Corpora- 
tions of  Gloucester,  Higham  Ferrers, 
and  Newark  ;  Southwell  Minster ; 
Lincoln  District  Registry. 
(10.)  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.    Vol.  I. 

Thirteenth  Report     

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 

(1.)  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  I 

(2.)  Ditto.     Vol.  II 

(3.)  J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  of  Drop- 
more.   Vol.  I. 

(4.)  Corporations  of  Rye,  Hastings,  and 
Hereford  ;  Captain  F.  C.  Loder- 
Symonds ;  E.  R.  Wodehouse,  M.P., 
J.  Dovaston,  Esqs.  ;  Sir  T.  B.  Leonard, 
Bart.,  Rev.  W.  D.  Macray,  and  Earl 
of  Dartmouth  (Supplementary  Report). 

(5.)  House  of  Lords,   1690-1691     . .      . . 

(6.)  Sir  W.  Fitzherbert,  Bart.  ;  the 
Delaval  Family,  of  Seaton  Delaval  ; 
Earl  of  Ancaster  ;  General  Lyttelton- 
Annesley. 

(7.)  Earl  of  Lonsdale       

(8.)  First  Earl  of  Charlemont.     Vol.  II. 

Fourteenth  Report     

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  i 
(1.)  Duke  of  Rutland,  G.C.B.     Vol    III. 
(2.)  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.   HI. 
(3.)  Duke    of    Roxburghe  ;     Sir    EL    H. 
Campbell,     Bart.  ;      Earl     of    Strath- 
more  ;    Countess  Dowager  of  Seafield. 

(4.)  Lord  Kenyon      

(6.)  J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.,  of  Dropraoro. 
Vol.11.  


C.   50 

C.  5060-iv 

0.   50t;o  v 
C.   5612 


C.  5889 


C.  5472 


»'. 
s 
6 
0 


0     3 


C.   5613 

2     5 

— il)-i 

1      4 

C.   5614 

Out  oj 

1"' 

C.  588'J-ii 

2     0 

C.   5889-iii 

2    u 

C.  5889-iv 

1  11 

C.  6338 

1     0 

C.  633S-i 

2     6 

C.    6338  ii 

C.  6827 


C.  6474 

C.  6827-i 

C.  6660 

C.  6810 


C.  6822 
C.  7166 


C.   7241 
C.   7424 

C.   79S3 


1   11 
0     3 


0 

7 


2     4 


2     4 
1     4 


1     3 
1    11 

0     3 


0. 

c. 

TITT, 
7570 

1  11 

2  8 
1      2 

c 

c. 

7571 
7672 

■J     h' 

1     8 

2R 


No.  of 

Taper. 


I'm-.' 


!  I.Tl    I   NTH        Rj    I-..11I'  .         \ll-l    M>l<    I   B        \M> 

I  ND 

(•'..  i  llnus..,,!  Lords,  L692  'X\ 

{For  continuation   of  tin    Manuecripie 
of   tlii-   House   of    Lord*,  tot  />.   30.) 
(7.)    Marquis  of   Ormonde  

(8.J  Lincoln,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Hert- 
ford and  Qreal  (Jrimsby  Corporations; 
Dean  and  Chapter  of  Worcester,  and 
of  Lichfield  ;  Bishop's  Registry  of 
Worcester. 
(9.)  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire  ;  Earl  of 
Lindsey  ;  Earl  of  Onslow  ;  Lord 
Emly  ;  T.  J.  Hare,  Esq.,  J.  Round, 
Esq.,  M.l\ 
(10.)  Earl  of  Dartmouth.  Vol.  II.  Amer- 
ican Papers. 

Fifteenth  Report        

This  is  introductory  to  the  following 
Appendices  and  Indexes  : 

1896  (1.)  Earl  of  Dartmouth.     Vol.   III. 

1897  (2.)  J.   Eliot  Hodgkin,  Esq 

1897  (3.)  Charles  Haliday,   Esq..    of    Dublin  ; 

Acts  of  the  Privy  Council  in  Ireland, 
1556-1571  ;  Sir  William  Ussher's 
Table  to  the  Council  Book  ;  Table  to 
the  Red  Council  Book. 

1897  (4.)  Duke  of  Portland.     Vol.  IV. 

1897  (5.)  Right  Hon.  F.  J.  Savile  Foljambe  . . 

1897  (6.)  Earl  of  Carlisle,  Castle  Howard 

1897  (7.)  Duke     of     Somerset;      Marquis     of 

Ailesbury  ;    Sir  F.  G.  Puleston,  Bart. 

1897  (8.)  Duke    of     Buccleuch     and     Queens- 

berry,  at  Drumlanrig.     Vol.      I. 

1897  (9.)  J.    J.    Hope     Johnstone,     Esq.,    of 

Annandale. 
1899  (10.)  Shrewsbury     and      Coventry      Cor- 

porations ;  Sir  H.  O.  Corbet,  Bart., 
Earl  of  Radnor,  P.  T.  Tillard,  J.  R. 
Carr-Ellison,  Andrew  Kingsmill,  Esqs. 

Manuscripts  in  the  Welsh  Language  : 

1898  Vol.  I.   Lord  Mostyn,  at  Mostyn  Hall    .. 
Vol.  I.   Part  II.     W.  R.M.Wynne,  Esq., 

of  Peniarth. 

1905  Vol.     I.     Part    III.     Peniarth.     Sir    T. 

Williams ;  John  Jones,  Robert 
Vaughan,  Esqs. 

1902  Vol.   II.  Part  I.  Jesus  College,   Oxford; 

Free  Library,  Cardiff  ;  Havod  ;  Wrex- 
ham ;    Llanwrin  ;    Merthyr  ;    Aberdar. 

1903  Vol   H.   Part  II.    Plas    Llan    Stephan ; 

Free  Library,  Cardiff. 
1905  Vol.11.   Part  III.  Panton  ;  Cwrtmawr  .. 

1910  Vol.     II.         Part    IV.         The      British 

Museum. 

1899  Manuscripts.  Duke  of  Buccleuch  and  Queens- 

berry,    K.G.,    K.T.,    at   Montagu    House, 

Whitehall.     Vol.  I. 

1903      Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II.     Part  I 

1903      Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II.     Part  II 

1903      Ditto.  Ditto.   At  Drumlanrig  Castle.  Vol.  II. 
1899      Ditto.     Marquess    of    Ormonde,     K.P.,    at 

Kilkenny  Castle.     Vol.  II. 
1909      Ditto.     Ditto.     Index  to  Vols.  L  and  II.      .. 


C.    7. .T:i 


C.   7678 
C.   7881 


C.   7882 

C.  7883 
C.  9295 


C.  8156 
C.  8327 
C.  8364 


C.  8497 

C.  8550 

C.  8551 

C.  8552 

C.  8553 

C.  8554 

C.  9472 


C.  9244 


Cd.  930 
Cd.  930-i 
Cd.   1827 
C.  9245 

Cd.  4774 


C. 

c. 

8829 
9468 

1 
2 

4 
11 

Cd. 

2443 

0 

8 

Cd. 

1100 

1 

9 

Cd. 

1692 

1 

8 

Cd. 

Cd. 

2444 
5353 

0 
1 

8 
0 

b.  d. 
1   II 


I    In 
1     5 


2     6 

2     9 
0     4 


1  5 
1  8 
1     4 


2  11 

0  10 

3  6 

1  9 

1  4 
1  0 
1     0 


2     7 


1   10 
1   11 

1  1 

2  0 

0  in 


29 


1903 
1904 
1906 
1908 
1911 
1912 
1904 
1910 
1899 
1901 

1901 
1907 
1899 
1899 
1905 
1906 
1908 
1910 
1912 
1899 
1900 
1900 
1900 
1901 


1903 


1904 


1907 


1000 


10d0 


1902 


1001 
1907 
1910 
1912 
1902 


Manuscripts.  Marquess  of  Ormonde,  K.P., 
at  Kilkenny  Castle.     New  Series.     Vol.  I. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.   III.       . . 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  IV. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  V. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  VI. 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.   VII.     .  . 

Ditto.     Mrs.  Stopford-Sackville.    Vol.  I.     . . 

Ditto.     Ditto.  Vol.  II. 

Ditto.     Duke    of    Portland,    K.G.     Vol.   V. 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.     VI,   with    Index     to 
Vols.   III.-VI. 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  VII 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  VIII 

Ditto.     J.  M.  Heathcote,  Esq 

Ditto.     J.  B.  Fortescue,  Esq.     Vol.  III.    .  . 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  IV 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  V 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  VI 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  VII 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.  VIII 

Ditto.     F.  W.   Leyborne-Popham,  Esq. 

Ditto.     Mrs.  Frankland-Russell-Astley 

Ditto.     Lord  Montagu  of  Beaulieu 

Ditto.      Beverley  Corporation       

Ditto.  Various  Collections.  Vol.  I.  Cor- 
porations of  Berwick-on-Tweed,  Burford 
and  Lostwithiel ;  Counties  of  Wilts  and 
Worcester  ;  Bishop  of  Chichester  ;  Dean 
and  Chapter  of  Chichester,  Canterbury, 
and  Salisbury. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II.  Sir  Geo.  Womb- 
well,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  Lord  Edmund 
Talbot  (the  Shrewsbury  Papers),  Miss 
Buxton,  Mrs.  Harford  and  Mrs.  Went- 
worth  of  Woolley. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  III.  T.  B.  Clarke - 
Thornhill,  Esq.,  Sir  T.  Barrett-Lennard, 
Bart.,  Pelham  R.  Papillon,  W.  Cleverley 
Alexander,  Esqs. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  IV.  Bishop  of  Salis- 
bury ;  Bishop  of  Exeter  ;  Dean  and 
Chapter  of  Exeter ;  Earl  of  Leicester ; 
Sir  W.  Clayton,  Bart.  ;  Major  Money- 
Kyrle  ;  F.  H.  T.  Jervoise,  Esq.  ;  Glem- 
ham  Hall  ;  Corporations  of  Salisbury, 
Orford,  and  Aldeburgh. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  V.  Colonel  Mordaunt 
Hay  of  Duns  Castle;  Sir  Archibald 
Edmonstone  of  Duntreath  ;  Sir  John 
Graham  of  Fintry,  K.C.M.G. 

Ditto.     Ditto.       Vol.    VI.        Miss    M.    Eyre 
Matcham  ;  Captain  H.  V.  Knox  :  < '  Wyke 
ham-Martin.   K.    B.    Tighe,     Esqs.,    Lord 
Oranmore  and  Browne. 

Calendar  of  the  Stuart  Manuscript*  at 
Windsor  Castle,  belonging  to  His  Majesty 
the  King.      VoL   I. 

Ditto.     Vol.   II 

Ditto.     Vol.   Ill 

Ditto.     Vol.   IV 

Ditto.     Vol.  V 

Manuscripts.  Colonel  David  Milne  Borne, 
of  Wedderburn  Caatle,  N.B. 


Cd.  929 


Cd.  1691 
Cd.  1963 
Cd.  3008 
Cd.  4116 
Cd.  5288 
Cd.  6255 
Cd.  1S02 
Cd. 

C.  9466 
Cd.  676 

Cd.  783 
Cd.  347") 
C.  9469 
C.  0470 
Cl.  22:;:? 
CM.  2811 
Cd.  3670 
Cd.  5290 
Cd.  5732 
C.  9471 
Cd.  282 
Cd.  283 
Cd.  284 
Cd.  784 


Cd.  932 


Cd  1964 


Cd.  3218 


Cd.  4600 


Cd.  4382 


Cd.  027 


a.  d. 

1  7 

1  10 

2  0 

3  0 

2  10 

2  6 

1  10 

1  6 

2  0 

1  9 

2  3 
1  10 
1  3 
3 

9 


1 

6 
4 
5 


1  11 

2  7 


6 

0 


1  1 


0 
0 


2  4 


1  6 


1   9 


1   4 


2  3 


2  11 


Cd. 

1  IsO 

2 

0 

Cd. 

3430 

2 

10 

Cd. 

5046 

2 

0 

«  ,i 

6163 

I 

1 

Cd. 

931 

1 

I 

30 


Data 


LMM 
1901 

1004 

1907 
1909 
1904 


1904 

1905 
1  'JO.". 

1905 
1905 
1909 
1905 
]  900 
1900 

1907 
1907 
1907 


191  I 
1911 

1911 

1911 


1900 
1903 
1905 
1908 
1910 
1912 


M.'inus.  ripts.     Marquess  of  Until,  at  Longleat, 

Wiltshire.     Vol.  1. 

Ditto.     Ditto.     Vol.   II 

Ditto.      Ditto.      Vol.    III.     (Prior   Papers).. 

American  Manuscripts  in  the  Royal  Institu- 
tion .if  ( ;ront  Britain.     Vol.  I. 

Ditto.     Vol.   II 

Ditto.      Vol.   Ill 

Ditto.     Vol.   IV 

Sixteenth  Report  (containing  a  list  of  the 
owners  of  Manuscripts  upon  whose  collec- 
tions Reports  have  been  made  to  July, 
1904). 

Manuscripts.  Earl  of  Mar  and  Kellie, 
at  Alloa  House,  N.B. 

Ditto.     Lady  Du  Cane  

Ditto.  Marquess  of  Lothian,  at  Blickling 
Hall. 

Ditto.     Earl  of  Egmont.     Vol.  I.     Part  I.  . . 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  I.      Part  II. 

Ditto.  Ditto.  Vol.  II 

Ditto.     Duke  of  Rutland.     Vol.   IV. 

Ditto.     Earl  of  Verulam        

Ditto.     (Franciscan)  at  the  Convent,     Mer- 
chants' Quay,  Dublin. 

Ditto.     Dean  and  Chapter  of  Wells 

Ditto.     Earl  of  Ancaster,  at  Grimsthorpe    . . 

Seventeenth  Report  (containing  a  List  of 
the  owners  of  Manuscripts  upon  whose 
collections  Reports  have  been  made  tc 
June,   1907. 

Manuscripts.     Lord  Polwarth.     Vol.  I. 

Ditto.  Earl  of  Denbigh,  at  Newnham 

Paddox,  Warwickshire,  Part  V. 

Ditto.  Lord  Middleton,  at  Wollaton 

Hall. 

Ditto.  Pepys,     Magdalene     College, 

Cambridge. 


Manuscripts  of  the  House  of  Lords,  in  con- 
tinuation of  those  published  in  the 
Appendices  to  the  Fourteenth  Report  (0; 
on  page  28,  are  now  published  as 
Sessional  Papers  of  the  House  of  Lords ; 
viz : — 


Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 
Vol. 


I. 

II. 

III. 

IV. 

V. 

VI. 


New  Series. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 
Ditto. 


1693-1695. 
1695-1697. 
1697-1699. 
1699-1702. 
1702-1704. 
1704-1706. 


No.  of 

l'u[>er. 


Cd.  2048 

Cd.  3474 
(  .1.  3849 
Cd.  2201 

Cd.  2897 
Cd.  3669 
Cd.  4773 
Cd.  2209 


Cd.  2190 

Cd.  2367 
Cd.  2319 

Cd.  2318 
Cd.  2570 
Cd.  4599 
Cd.  2606 
Cd.  2973 
Cd.  2867 

Cd.  2810 
Cd.  3429 
Cd.  3737 


Cd.  6289 

Cd.  5565 

Cd.  5567 

Cd.  5721 


H.L. 
H.L. 
H.L. 
H.L. 
H.L. 
H.L. 


(5) 

(18) 

(175) 

(7) 

(62) 

(142) 


Price. 


d. 
9 


2 

2 
2 
2 
2 
2 


0 
B 

3 


2  6 

1  11 

2  3 
0  9 


2  7 

2  6 
2  2 


1 
1 
1 

2 
1 
1 


8 
9 
3 
9 
4 
4 


2  11 
2  7 
0  11 


2  11 
1  7 

3  0 

1  7 


2 
9 
0 

9 

8 

1 


31 

ANNUAL    REPORTS  OF    THE    DEPUTY   KEEPEB 
OF  THE   PUBLIC   RECORDS. 


REPORTS  NOS.    1-22,  IN  FOLIO,   PUBLISHED     BETWEEN    1840  AND    1861,  ARE  NO 
LONGER   ON   SALE.      SUBSEQUENT   REPORTS   ARE  IN    OCTAVO. 


No. 
Date.       of 

Report 


1862 
1863 


Chief  Contents. 


23 
24 


1864        25 


1865        26 


1866        27 


1867 


ksr.s 


1869 


28 


29 


30 


Proceedings 
Ditto      . . 


Calendar  of  Crown  Leases,  33-38  Hen. 
VIII.— Calendar  of  Bills  and  An- 
swers, &c,  Hen.  VIII. — Ph.  and 
Mary  for  Cheshire  and  Flintshire. 
— List  of  Lords  High  Treasurer 
and  Chief  Commissioners  of  the 
Treasury,  from  Hen.  VII. 

List  of  Plans  annexed  to  Inclosure 
Awards,  31  Geo.  II.-7  Will.  IV— 
Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c,  for 
Cheshire  and  Flintshire,  Hen.  VI.- 
Eliz. — Calendar  of  Writs  of  General 
Livery,  &c,  for  Cheshire,  Eliz.- 
Charles  I. — Calendar  of  Deeds,  &c, 
on  the  Chester  Plea  Rolls,  Hen.  III. 
and  Edw.  I. 

List  of  Awards  of  Inclosure  Commis- 
sioners— References  to  Charters  in 
the  Cartae  Antiqufe  and  the  Con- 
firmation Rolls  of  Chancery,  Ethel- 
bert  of  Kent-James  I. — Calendar 
of  Deeds,  &c,  on  the  Chester  Plea 
Rolls,  Edw.  II. 

Calendar  of  Fines,  Cheshire  and  Flint- 
shire, Edw.  I. — Calendar  of  Deeds, 
&c,  on  the  Chester  Plea  Rolls, 
Edw.  III. 

Table   of   Law  Terms,   from   tho 
Norman  Conquest  to  1  Will.  IV. 

Calendar  of  Royal  Charters. — Calen- 
dar of  Deeds,  &c,  on  the  Chester 
Plea  Rolls,  Richard  IL-Henry  VII. 
— Durham  Records,  Letter  and 
Report. 

Duchy  of  Lancaster.  Records.  Inven 
tory — Durham  Records,  Inventory. 
— Calendar  of  Deeds,   &o.,   on   the 
Chester   Plea   Rolls,    Hen.    VIII. 
Calendar    of    Decrees    of    Court    of 
General  Surveyors,  34-38  Hon.  V  1 1 1 
— Calendar    of    Royal    Charters. — 
State  Paper  OfTice. Calendar  of  Docu- 
ments relating  to  the  History  of,  to 
1800.  —  Tower  ot    London.      Index   to 
Documents  in  custody  of  the  Con- 
stable    of. — Calendar    of     l><ckets, 
&c,  for  Privy  Seals.   1634-1711.— 
Report     of     tiie     Commissioners    on 
Carte  Papers. — Venetian  Ciphers. 


C.  2970 

C.   3142 

C.  3318 


C.  3492 


C.   3717 


C.   3839 


C.  4012 


c     ii »;:, 


lTice. 


*.   d. 

0     4 
Out  of 
print. 
Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 

print. 


l>7u  Duchy  of  Lancaster   Reoords,   Calen-  C.   1 

dar  nf  Royal  cliiirters. — Durham 
I:  Boards,  Calendar  of  Chancery 
Enrolments,  Cursitor's  Records. — 
List  of  Oilicers  (if  Palatinate  of 
Chester,  in  Cheshire  and  Flint- 
s-hire, and  North  Wales. — List  of 
Sheriffs  of  England,  13  Hen.  I.  to 
4  Edw.   111. 

Part  I.— Report  of  the  Commis- 
sioners on  Carte  Papers. — Calen- 
darium  Genealogicum,  1  &  2  Edw. 
II.  —  Durham  Records,  Calendar 
of  Cursitor's  Records.  Chancery 
Enrolments. — Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records,  Calendar  of  Rolls  of  the 
Chancery  of  the  County  Palatine. 

Part    II.  —  Charities  ;      Calendar    of  t-L 

Trust  Deeds  enrolled  on  the  Close 
Rolls  of  Chancery,  subsequent  to 
9  Geo.   II. 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calendar  C.  f>20 

of  Rolls  of  the  Chancery  of  the 
County  Palatine. — Durham  Re- 
cords, Calendar  of  the  Cursitors' 
Records,  Chancery  Enrolments. — 
Reports  on  the  Shaftesbury  Papers. 
— Venetian  Transcripts.  —  Greek 
Copies  of  the  Athanasian  Creed. 
1873        34        Durham    Records,    Calendar    of    the  C.  ' 

Cursitors'  Records,  Chancery  En- 
rolments.— Supplementary  Report 
on  the  Shaftesbury  Papers. 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records,  Calen- 
dar of  Ancient  Charters  or  Grants. 
— Palatinate  of  Lancaster  ;  In- 
ventory and  Lists  of  Documents 
transferred  to  the  Public  Reeord 
Office. — Durham  Records,  Calendar 
of  Cursitors'  Records. — Chancery 
Enrolments. — Second  Supplemen- 
tary Report  on  the  Shaftesbury 
Papers. 

1875  36  Durham  Records,  Calendar  of  the  C.  1301 
Cursitor's  Records,  Chancery  En- 
rolments.— Duchy  of  Lancaster  Re- 
cords ;  Calendar  of  Ancient  Charters 
or  Grants. — Report  upon  Docu- 
ments in  French  Archives  relating 
to  British  History. — Calendar  of 
Recognizance  Rolls  of  the  Pala- 
tinate of  Chester,  to  end  of  reign  of 
Hon.  IV. 

1876  Part  I.— Durham  Records,  Calendar  C.  1 
of  the  Cursitor's  Records,  Chancery 
Enrolments. — Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records,  Calendar  of  Ancient  Rolls 
of  the  Chancery  of  the  County 
Palatine. — List  of  French  Ambas- 
sadors, &c.  in  England,  1509-1714. 

1876  Part  II. — Calendar  of    Recognizance         C.  1544-i. 

Rolls  of  the  Palatinate  of  Chester  ; 
Hen.  V.— Hen.  VII. 


a.  d. 

Out  of 

print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


1     9 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


Out  of 
print. 


33 


1877 


38 


1878 


39 


1879 


40 


1880 


41 


18S1 


42 


1882 


43 


1883        11 


Exchequer  Records,  Catalogue  of 
Special  Commissions,  1  Eliz.  to 
10  Vict.,  Calendar  of  Depositions 
taken  by  Commission,  1  Eliz.  to 
end  of  James  I. — List  of  Represen- 
tative Peers  for  Scotland  and  Ire 
land. 

Calendar  of  Recognizance  Rolls  of 
the  Palatinate  of  Chester,  1  Hen. 
VIII.— 11  Geo.  IV.— Exchequer  Re- 
cords, Calendar  of  Depositions 
taken  by  Commission,  Charles  I. — 
Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records  ;  Cal- 
endar of  Lancashire  Inquisitions 
post  Mortem,  &c. — Third  Supple- 
mentary Report  on  the  Shaftesbury 
Papers. — List  of  Despatches  of 
French  Ambassadors  to  England, 
1509-1714. 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by 
Commission,  Commonwealth  — 

James  II.  —  Miscellaneous  Re- 
cords of  Queen's  Remembrancer 
in  the  Exchequer. — Durham  Re- 
cords, Calendar  of  the  Cursitors' 
Records,  Chancery  Enrolments. 
— Calendar  of  Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Patent  Rolls,  5  Ric.  II.— 21  Hen. 
VII. 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by 
Commission,  William  and  Mary  to 
George  I. — Calendar  of  Norman 
Rolls,  Hen.  V.,  Part  I.— List  of 
Calendars,  Indexes.  &c,  in  the 
Public  Record  Office  on  31st  De- 
cember.   1879. 

Calendar  of  Depositions  taken  by 
Commission.  Georee  II. — Calendar 
of  Norman  Rolls,  Hen.  V.,  Part  II. 
and  Glossary. — Calendar  of  Patent 
Rolls,  1  Edw.  I.  Transcripts  from 
Paris. 

Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c,  1  7 
Charles  I. — Duchy  of  Lancaster 
Records,  Inventory  of  Co'irt  Rolls. 
Hen.  III.— Geo.  IV.  Calendar  of 
Privy  Seals,  Ric.  II. — Calendar  of 
Patent  Rolls,  2  Edw.  I.— Fourth 
Supplementary  Report  on  the  Shaf- 
tesbury Papers. — Transcripts  from 
Paris. — Report  on  Libraries  in 
Sweden. — Report  on  Papers  re- 
lating to  English  History  in  the 
State  Archives,  Stockholm. — Re- 
port on  Canadian  Archives. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  3  Edw.  I. 
— Durham  Records,  Cursitors'  1 1 
cords,  Inquisitions  post  Mortem, 
&c. — Calendar  of  French  Rolls, 
1-10  Hen.  V. — Report  from  Venioe. 
— Transcripts  from  Paris. — Report 
from  Rome. 


C.    1747 


a.   d. 

Out  of 
print. 


C.   2123 


Out  of 
print. 


C.   2377         Out  of 
print. 


C.  2658  4     8 


C.   2972  4     0 


C.  3425  3   M 


C.   3771 


3     « 


:i4 


N... 
D.iIp.         of 

Report 


issi 


IvsT 


isss 


u 


L885        46 


1886        47 


48 


49 


Chief   Contents. 


1889 

50 

1890 

51 

1891 

52 

1892 

53 

1893 

54 

1894 

55 

1895 

56 

1890 

57 

1897 

58 

1898 

59 

1899 

60 

1900 

61 

1901 

62 

1902 

63 

1903 

64 

1904 

65 

1905 

66 

1906 

67 

1907 

68 

1908 

69 

1909 

70 

1910 

71 

1911 

72 

1912 

73 

Duchy  of  Lancaster  Records.  Inven- 
tory of  Ministers'  and  Receivers' 
units.  Edw.  I. — Geo.  III. — 
Durham  Records,  Cursitors'  Re- 
cords, Inquisitions  post  Mortom. 
,Vc — Calendar  of  Diplomatic  Docu- 
ments.— Transcripts  from  Paris. — 
Report!  from  Rome  and  Stock- 
holm.— Report  on  Archives  of 
Denmark,  &c. — Transcripts  from 
Venice. — Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls, 
4  Edw.  I. 

Presentations  to  Offices  on  the  Patent 
Rolls,  Charles  II. — Transcripts  from 
Paris.  Reports  from  Rome. — 
Second  Report  on  Archives  of  Den- 
mark, &c. — Calendar  of  Patent 
Rolls,  5  Edw.  I. — Catalogue  of 
Venetian  Manuscripts  bequeathed 
by  Mr.  Rawdon  Brown  to  the 
Public  Record  Office. 

Transcripts  from  Paris — Third  Report 
on  Archives  of  Denmark,  &c. — 
List  of  Creations  of  Peers  and 
Baronets,  1483-1646.— Calendar  of 
Patent  Rolls,  6  Edw.  I. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  7  Edw.  I. — 
Calendar  of  French  Rolls,  Henry  VI. 
— Calendar  of  Privy  Seals,  &c, 
8-11  Charles  I. — Calendar  of  Diplo- 
matic Documents. — Schedules  of 
Valueless  Documents. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  8  Edw.  I.— 
Index  to  Leases  and  Pensions 
Augmentation  Office). — Calendar 
of    Star    Chamber    Proceedings. 

Calendar  of  Patent  Rolls,  9  Edw.  1.    . . 

Proceedings  

Ditto      

Ditto       

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto.  Account  of  the  Rolls  Chapel, 
with  eight  plates  of  the  Chapel. 

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto       

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto      

Ditto       

Ditto       

Ditto       

Indexes  to  Printed  Reports,  viz.  : — 
Reports  1-22  (1840-1861)  (bound)   . 
„       23-39(1862-1878)       .. .. 


No.  of 


C.   4425 


C.   4746 


C.   4888 


C.   5234 


C.   5596 


Trier 


a.   d. 

I     :: 


c. 

5847 

1 

2 

c. 

6108 

0 

2 

c. 

6528 

0 

H 

c. 

6804 

0 

2i 

c. 

7079 

0 

H 

c. 

7444 

0 

H 

c. 

7841 

0 

H 

c. 

8271 

1 

0 

c. 

8543 

0 

1  + 

c. 

8906 

0 

1 

c. 

9366 

0 

1 

Cd. 

245 

0 

I 

Cd. 

617 

0 

1 

Cd. 

1141 

0 

1 

Cd. 

1620 

0 

1 

Cd. 

2129 

0 

1 

Cd. 

2536 

0 

1 

Cd. 

2962 

0 

1 

Cd. 

3439 

0 

1 

Cd. 

4062 

0 

1 

Cd. 

4624 

0 

1 

Cd. 

5181 

0 

1 

Cd. 

5722 

0 

1 

Cd. 

6160 

0 

1 



10 

0 

— 

2 

0 

2   10 


2     2 


3     <i 


3     3 


35 

SCOTTISH    RECORD    PUBLICATIONS. 

[Othek  Works  Relating  to  Scotland  will  be  found  among  nrj 

TIONS    OF    THE    RECORD    COMMISSIONERS,    See    pp.    20-- 

1.  Chronicles  of  the  Picts  and  Scots,  and  other  early  Memoki  \ 

Scottish  History.     (Out  of  print.) 

2.  Ledger  of  Andrew  Halyburton,  Conservator  of  thk  Pbivi 

the  Scotch  Nation  in  the  Netherlands  (1492    1603);     i 
with  the  Books  of  Customs  and  Valuation  oi  IIkrohand 
Scotland,   1612.     Edited  by  C.  Innes.      10*. 

3.  Documents   Illustrative   of  the   History   of  Sootlahtj    ntOH    i 

Death  of  Kini;  Ai. exander  the  Third  to  the  A> 

Bruce,  from  original  and  authentic  copies  in  London,  Paris,  Bi 

Lille,  and  Ghent.     Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.  Stevenson.    2  Vols.     10 

4.  Accounts    of   the    Loud    High    Treasurer    of    Scotland.       Vol.    I 

473-1498.     Edited  by  T.  Dickson  ;     Vol.    11..    1500-1504.      VoL    111 
1500-1507.     Vol.    IV.,    1507-1513.     V«,l.    V,     1515-1531.      Vol.     VI.. 
1531-1538.     Vol.   VII.,  1538- 1541.     Vol.  VIII  ,  1511  -15  In.     Vol     IV. 
1540-1551.     Edited  by  Sir  J.  B.  Paul.      10*.  each. 

5.  Register  of  the  Privy  Council  of  Scotland.       Vol.  1.,   154.".    ! 

Vol.   II.,    150!)    157S.      Edited  and  arranged  by  J.   H.  Burton,   LL.D 
Vol.  III.,  1578-15S5.     Vol.  IV.,  15S5   1592.     {Out  oi  print.)     Vol.   \ 
1592-1599.     Vol.  VL,  1599-1004.      Vol.  VII.,  1004-1007.      Vol.  VIII  . 
1607-1610.     Vol.    IX.,    1010-1013.      Vol.    X.,    1013-1010.      V<»1.    XI 
1616-1619.     Vol.  XII.,  1619-1622.    VoL  XILL,  1622-1625.    VoL  XIV., 
Addenda,     1545-1625.      Edited   by    D.     Masson,    LL.D.        15*.  each. 

5a.  Ditto,  Second  Series.  Vol.  I.,  1625-1627.  Edited  by  D.  Masson.  LL.D  . 
Vol.  II.,  1627-1028.  Vol.  III.,  1029- 1030.  Vol.  IV.,  1630-1632. 
Vol.  V.,  1633-1035.  Vol.  VL,  1035-1037.  Vol.  VII..  1638-1643. 
Vol.  VI1L,  1544-1000.  Edited  by  P.  H.  Brown,  .M.A..  LL.D.  15*    each. 

5b.  Ditto,  Third  Series.  Vol.  1.,  1661-1664.  Vol.  IL.  1665-1669.  Vol.  Ill  . 
1669-1672.  Vol.  IV.,  1673  1676.  Edited  and  abridged  by  P.  H.  Bkou  n. 
M.A.,  LL.D.     15,9   each. 

6.  Rotuli    Scaccarh    Reoum    Scotoru.m.     The    Exchequer    Rolls    oh 

Scotland.  Vol.  I.,  1204-1359.  Vol.  II.,  1359-1379.  VoL  III.. 
1379-1406.  Vol.  IV.,  1400-1430.  Vol.  V.,  1437-145  1.  VoL  VL, 
1455-1460.  Vol.  Vll„  1400-1469.  Vol.  VIII.,  1470-1479.  Vol.  1\  . 
1480-1487.  Addenda,  1437-1487.  Vol.  X.,  1488-1496;  VoL  XL, 
1497-1501.  Vol.XIL,  1502- 1507.  Vol.  XIIL,  1508-1513.  VoL  XIV., 
1513-1522.  Vol.  XV.,  1523-1529.  Vol.  XV L,  1529-1530.  Vol.  XVI'.. 
1537-1542.  Vol.  XVHL,  1543-1556.  Vol.  XIX  ,  1557-1507.  VoL  XX., 
1568-1579.  Vol.  XXL,  1580-1588.  Vol.  XX1L.  1589-1594. 
Vol.  XXIIL,  1595-1600.  Edited  by  J.  Stuart,  LL.D.  (Vol.  I.); 
G.  Burnett  (Vols.  I.  to  XII.)  ;  G.  Burnett  and  JE.  J.  G.  Mackay 
(Vols.  XIIL  and  XIV.);  and  G.  P.  McNeil  (Vols.  XIV.  to  XXIIL: 
10s.  each. 

7.  Calendar  of  Documents  Relating  to   Scotland,   preserved   in   tl"> 

Public  Record  Office.  Edited  by  J.  Bain.  Vol.  I.,  1108  1272.  Vol.  IL, 
1272-1307.      Vol.    III.,    1307-1357.      Vol.    IV.,    1357    1509.      15*.   each. 

8.  Register  of  the  Great  Seal  of  Scotland.     Vol.  L.  1300   1121.  \«-u 

Edition,  to  which  are  added  Indexes  and  remains  oi  the  I"-1   '  hartei 
Rolls.      Vol.  IL,   1424-1513.      Vol.  III.,  1513-1540.      Vol.   IV..   L 
15*0.     Vol.   V.,    1580-1593.     Vol.   VL,    1593-1608.     Vol.    V1L.    1 
1620.     Vol.     VIIL,     1620-1633.     Vol.     IX.,     1634-1651.     Vol.     X.. 
1652-1659.      Edited      by      ■) .      M.     Thomson,      L.L.D.      (VoL 
J.   B.   Paul  (Vol.  II.)  ;  J.   B.   Paul    and.).  M.  Thomson    (VoL    II 
J.    M.   Thomson   (Vols.   IV.    to   IX.);    J.   H.   Stevenson,    .M.A..  and 
W.  K.  Dickson,  M.A.  (VoL  X.).     15s.  each, 
9    The  Hamilton  Papers.     Letters  and   Papers  illustrating  1 1 1«-   Political 
Relations  of  England  and  Scotland  in  the  XVlil.  Century.     Formed) 
in  the  possession  of  the  Dukes  of  Hamilton,  now  in  the  British  Museum. 
Edited  by  J.  Baik.     VoL  I.,  1532   L643 ;   VoL  IL,  1643   L690.    I 

10    Borders    of    Enoland    am.  sn>.      Calendar    ol  and 

lepers  relating  to  tho   Affairs  of  the.     Preserved   in    Her   M 
Public  Record  Office,    London,     Edited  by  •).    Bain.     Vol.    L.    i 
1694;    Vol.11.      1696-1603.      15.x.  each. 

11.  State  Pah  LATnra  to  Sootlahd  am*   Maby,  Uoi 

Calendar   of,    1517    1003.      VoL    I.    !■>  VoL    IL,      - 

Edited  by   J.    Bain;    VoL    111.,    1669   1571      VoL    IV.,     1671-1 
Vol.  V.,   1574-1581.    Vol.  VL,   1581    1688       Edited  fry   \\     K.  Boyd. 

1  ^8    ccifh 

12   Guide  to  the  Public  Ksoobm  of  Bootlako,     By  m    Ln 

I  S.O.      1905.     3a.   6d.     (Out  o/  /" 
13.  Reoisteb  of  the  I'rivy  Seal  or  Scotland.     \  ol.  1  .  14*8-16-9. 

by  M.  Livingstone,  1. SO.      15«. 
Facsimiles  of  the  National  MSS.  ok  Scotland.     1  arts  L,  II.  and   111. 

21«.  each. 


86 

IR1SB     RECORD     PUBLICATIONS. 


1.    Calbndab  Of   rui:   I  mm  Closi:   Rolls  of  Chancery  in 

Iki  ELAND,     Ill  n  kn      \III..     EdWABJD    VI.,    B&AB1     am>    ELISABETH, 

wi»  roa  rata  1st  ro  cm    8th  5  sab  ov  Chawt.kb  I.       Edited  by 
J.  Mobbln.     Vols,  [.and  111.     lis.  eac/i.     (Vol.  H.    Out  of  print.) 

•j.    Am  ii  \  r  Laws  and  1  lnd. 

\  I  .  II.  III..  Senohufl  Mor.     Vols.  IV.,  V.  Brehon  Laws. 

v.. I  \  I.  Glossary.  10*.  soeA.  (Vol.  I.  Out  of  print.) 
Lnnalb  ''i  1  Flbteb.  Otherwise  Annals  of  Senat,  a  Chronicle  of 
Irish  Affairs  from  431-1131,  L 156-1541.  With  Translation  and 
Notes.  Vol.  I.,  431-1056.  Edited  by  W.  M.  Hbnnbsst.  Vol.11., 
1057-1131,  1155-1378;  Vol.  111.,  1379-1541;  Vol.  IV.,  Intro- 
duotioo  and  Index.     Edited  by  15.  MacCarthy,  D.D.     10s.  each. 

4.  ChabtjB,  I'ki\  n.iHJiA.  i  r  Lmmi'm  tates,  being  transcripts  of  Charters 
and  Privileges  to  Cities,  Towns,  Abbeys,  and  other  Bodies  Cor- 
porate.  L8  Henry  II.  to  18  Richard  II.  (1171-1395).  Printed 
by  the  Irish  Record  Commission,  1829-1830.     5s. 

5.  JlSTK'IAKV      ROLLS,      or      lJUOCEEDINOS     IN     THE     COURT     OF       THE 

.Ii  sTinu;  tn    Iiiki.ami.      23rd  to  31st  years  of  Edwakd  I.      1295- 
1303.     Edited  by  J.  .Mn.i.s.     15*. 

6.  Statutes  and   Ordinances,  and  Acts  of  the   Parliament  of 

Ireland.       King  John  to  Henry  V      Edited  by  H.  F.  Berry, 
M.A.     10s.     Continued  by 
Statute    Rolls   of    the     Parliament    of   Ireland.      Vol.   II., 
Henry  VI.     10*. 


Fac-similes    of    National    Manuscripts    of    Ireland,    from    the 

EARLIEST    EXTANT   SPECIMENS   TO    1719.       Edited  by  J.  T.   GILBERT. 

Parts  I.,    II.   and  III.      21.  2s.  each;   Part  IV.— 1.     51.  5s.  ;  Part 
IV.— 2.     41.  10s. 

This  work  forms  a  comprehensive  Palaeographic  Series  for 
Ireland.  It  furnishes  characteristic  specimens  of  the  docu- 
ments which  have  come  down  from  each  of  the  classes  which, 
in  past  ages,  formed  principal  elements  in  the  population  of 
Ireland,  or  exercised  an  influence  in  her  affairs.  With  these 
reproductions  are  combined  facsimiles  of  writings  connected 
with  eminent  personages  or  transactions  of  importance  in  the 
annals  of  the  country  to  the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth  century. 

The  specimens  have  been  reproduced  as  nearly  as  possible  in 
accordance  with  the  originals,  in  dimensions,  colouring,  and 
general  appearance.  Characteristic  examples  of  styles  of  writing 
and  ceJigraphic  ornamentation  are,  as  far  as  practicable, 
associated  with  subjects  of  historic  and  linguistic  interest. 
Descriptions  of  the  various  manuscripts  are  given  by  the  Editor 
in  the  Introduction.  The  contents  of  the  specimens  are  fully 
elucidated  and  printed  in  the  original  languages,  opposite 
to  the  Fac  similes — line  for  line — without  contractions — thus 
facilitating  reference  and  aiding  effectively  those  interested  in 
palseographic  studies. 

In  the  work  are  also  printed  in  full,  for  the  first  time,  many 
original  and  important  historical  documents. 

Part  I.  commences  with  the  earliest  Irish  MSS.  extant. 

Part  II.     From  the  Twelfth  Century  to  1299. 

Part  III.     From  1300  to  end  of  reign  of  Henry  VIII. 

Part  IV. — 1.  From  reign  of  Edward  VI.  to  that  of  James  I. 

In  part  IV. —  2  the  work  is  carried  down  to  the  early  part 
of  the  eighteenth  century,  with  Index  to  the  entire  publication. 

Account  of  Fac-similes  of  National  Manuscripts  of  Ireland.  In 
one  Vol.,  with  Index.  10s.  Or  separately  :  Parts  I.  and  II. 
together,  2s.  6d.  ;  Part  II.  Is.  6d.  ;  Part  III.  Is.;  Part  IV.— 
1.  2s.  ;    Part  IV.— 2.     2s.  6d. 


37 


ANNUAL  REPORTS    OF    THE   DEPUTY  KEEPEB 
OF  THE  PUBLIC  RECORDS.   IRELAND. 


Date. 

No. 
of 

Chief  Contents. 

No,  of 
Paper. 

Price. 

Report 

1869 

1 

Contents  of  the  Principal  Record  Re- 
positories   of    Ireland    in     1864. — 
Notices     of     Records     transferred 
from  Chancery  Offices. — Irish  State 
Papers   presented   by   Philadelphia 
Library  Company. 

C.  4157 

t.   d. 
Out  of 

print. 

1870 

-    2 

Notices  of  Records  transferred  from 
Chancery,      Queen's     Bench,     and 
Exchequer       Offices. — Index       to 
Original      Deeds      received      from 
Master  Litton's  Office. 

C.   137 

Out  of 
print. 

1871 

3 

Notices   of  Records  transferred  from 
Queen's  Bench,  Common  Pleas,  and 
Exchequer  Offices. — Report  on  J.  F. 
Furguson's    MSS. — Exchequer    In- 
dices, &c. 

C.  329 

Out 
print 

1872 

4 

Records  of  Probate  Registries 

C.  515 

Out  of 
print. 

1873 

5 

Notices    of    Records    from    Queen's 
Bench  Calendar  of  Fines  and  Re- 
coveries of  the  Palatinate  of  Tip- 
perary,   1664-1715. — Index  to  Re- 
ports to  date. 

C.  760 

0     8 

1874 

6 

Notices  of  Records  transferred   from 
Chancery,      Queen's     Bench,     and 
Common     Pleas     Offices. — Report 
respecting  "  Facsimiles  of  National 
MSS.  of  Ireland." — List  of  Chancery 
Pleadings  (1662-1690)  and  Calendar 
to  Chancery  Rolls   (1662-1713)  of 
Palatinate  of  Tipperary. 

C.  963 

Out  of 

print. 

1875 

7 

Notices  of  Records    from  Exchequer 
and    Admiralty    Offices. — Calendar 
and  Index  to  Fiants  of  Henry  VIII. 

C.   1175 

Out  of 
print. 

1876 

8 

Calendar    and    Index    to    Fiants     of 
Edward  VI. 

C.   1469 

Out  of 
print. 

1877 

9 

Index  to   the  Liber  Munerum  Publi- 
corum    Hibernise.  —  Calendar    and 
Index  to  Fiants  of  Philip  and  Mary. 

C.   1702 

Out  of 
print. 

1878 

10 

Index  to  Deputy  Keeper's  6th,  7th, 
8th,  9th,  and  10th  Reports. 

('.    12034 

Out  of 
print. 

1879 

11 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth  ( 1558- 
1570). 

0.   2311 

Out  of 
print. 

1880 

12 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con 
tinued  (1570-1576). 

C.  2583 

Out   of 
print. 

1881 

13 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1576-1583). 

i  .  2920 

I     0 

1882 

14 

Report  of  Keeper  of  State  Papers  con 
taining     Catalogue     of     Common- 
wealth    Books     transferred     from 
Bermingham  Tower. 

5216 

0     <>J 

1883 

15 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1583-1586).— Index  to  De- 
puty Keeper's  11th,  12th,  13th,  14th 
and  15th  Reports. 

;.',7'', 

l     0 

1884 

16 

Calendar  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth,  con- 
tinued (1586-1595). 

1002 

1      6 

1  teporl 


(hut  Content*. 


l'i  i . « - 


L888 

l.W.i 
189U 
1891 
1892 

1893 

1894 


IT 


18 


lit 


20 


L'I 


22 


23 


24 


26 


26 


1895 
1896 


27 


L896        28 


1897 

1898 
1899 


29 


30 


31 


Reporl   on  Iron  Chest   ol  Attainders 

follow  in^    after     lti  I  I     and     168 

Queen's  Benoh  Calendar  to  Fiants 
of  EliBmbetb,  oontdnued  1 1596  160.1), 

Calendar  to  Fiants  ol  Elizabeth,  eon 
turned  (1601    1 603 1,     Memorandum 
on  Statements  1 1702)  and  Deolarons 
(1713   Ni  ol  Huguenot   Pensioners, 

Notiot  ol  Records  ol  Incumbered  and 
Landed  Est  arte. — Report  of 

Keeper  ol  State  Tapers,  containing 
Table  of  Abstracts  of  Decrees  of 
Innocence  (1663),   with    Ind 

Calendar  to  Christ  Church  Deeds 
in  Novum  Kegistruiu,  117  1  1684. 
Index  to  16th,  17th,  18th,  19th,  and 
20th  Reports. 

Index  to  Calendars  of  Fiants  of  the 
reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  Letters 
A— C. 

Catalogue  of  Proclamations,  101S- 
1660. 

Index  to  Fiants  of  Elizabeth.   D — Z. 

Catalogue  of  Proclamations,  1661- 
1767. — Calendar  to  Christ  Church 
Deeds,  1177-1462. 

Catalogue  of  Proclamations,  1707- 
1875.  Contents  of  the  Red  Book 
of  the  Exchequer.  Calendar  to 
Clirist  Church  Deeds,    1462-1602. 

Regulations  respecting  State  Papers. 
Instructions  for  Parochial  Cus- 
todians. Index  to  21st  to  25th 
Reports. 

Abstract  of  Antrim  Inquisition, 
3  James  I.,  Bankruptcy  Records, 
1857-1872;  Early  Plea  Rolls  to 
51  Edward  III. 

Index  to  the  Act  or  Grant  Books,  and 
to  Original  Wills,  of  the  Diocese  of 
Dublin  to  the  year  1800. 

Records  from  Courts  and  Offices  t  rana- 
ferred  to,  and  deposited  at,  the 
Public  Record  Office  in  Ireland. 

Index  to  Calendars  of  Christ  Church 
Deeds,  1174-1684,  contained  in 
Appendices  to  20th,  23rd,  and  24th 
Reports. 

(1.)  Report  on  the  Early  Ploa  Rolls, 
continued  from    51    Edward    III. ; 

(2.)  Table  showing  present  Custodies 
of  Parochial  Records. 

Copy  and  Translation  of  Five  Instru- 
ments of  Record  in  the  Public 
Record  Office  of  Ireland,  written  in 
the  Irish  Character  and  Tongue, 
1584-1606. 

Report  on  MSS.  of  Sir  T.  Phillips' 
Library  ;  Index  to  Deputy  Keeper's 
26th  to  30th  Reports. 

Report  of  Proceedings,  and  Appendix 

(1.)  Corrections   to   the   Addenda   to 

the      Dublin      Grants      Index      in 

Appendix  to  the  26th  Report ; 

j  (2.)  Notes  on  the  Departmental  Letters 

and     Official      Papers,    1760-1789. 


I      1487 


C. 


C.  5185 


i      5535 


C.  5S35 


C.   6180 

C.   6180-i 
C.   6504 


C.   6765 


C.   7170 


C.   7488 


C.   7488-i. 

Out  of 

print. 

C.   7802 

0     2} 

0.  8080 

0     5£ 

C.  8163 

C.  8667 

C.  9030 

C.  9478 


a.   d. 

1      il 


1      1 


0     6 


0     8J 


1     0 


0  2J 

2     0 

1  1 


o  n 


0     3 


0     3J 


0  5J 

0  3 

0  3* 

0  5* 


39 


1900 
1900 

1901 


32 


33 


1902        34 


1903 


1904        36 


190f> 


190(3 


37 


38 


1907        39 


1908       40 


1909       41 


1910 


42 


Index  to  the  Act  or  Grant  Book  and 
Original  Wills  of  the  Diocese  of 
Dublin  from  1800-1858. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
— Report    on    the    Records    of    the 
Clerks    of    the    Crown    and    Peace 
transferred  prior  to  1900. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  Notes  on  Manuscript  Volumes 
connected  with  the  Irish  Revenue, 
the  Court  of  Trustees  of  Forfeited 
Estates,  &c,  in  the  possession  of 
Earl  Annesley  ; 

(2.)  Report  on  the  Books  of  the 
Treasury  and  Accounting  Depart- 
ments in  Ireland. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  List  of  Maps  presented  by  Com- 
missioners of  Woods  and  Forests  ; 

(2.)  Report  on  Register  of  Irregular 
Marriages,  179!)    IS  14. 

Report  on  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  Regulations  as  to  access  to  Mili- 
tary Records  ; 

(2.)  Records  found  in  former  Record 
Office; 

(3.)  Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  ot  Irish  Exchequer,  Henry  111. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
Catalogue  of  Acounts  in  the   Pipe 
Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer.l  to  12 
Edward  I. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 
Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipo 
Rolls  of  tin-  Irish  Exchequer, 
15  22  Edward  I. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  Rules  for  admission  to  the  use  of 
the  Records  ; 

(2.)  Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  the  Pipe 
Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer,  25  to 
33  Edward  1. 

Report  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix. 
Catalogue  of  Accounts  in  th"  Pipe 
Rolls  of  the  Irish  Exchequer,  1  to  1" 
Edward  II. 

irt  of  Proceedings  and  Appendix 

(1.)  Report  on  certain  Records  trans- 
ferred  from   former    Land 
Record  Office  ; 

(2.)  Index  to  Reports  XX  XI.   XI.. 

Reporl  of  Pro« lings  and  Appendix 

(1.)   List  of  Parishes  for  which   R 

tors  of  Baptisms  are  preserved  in 

Record  Office. 
(2.)  List  of  Parishes  for  which  Returns 

to  Visitations  supply  deficienci 

Parish  Registers. 
Reporl  of  P  I  md  Appendix 

M  .  /  (  Account 

Rolls  of  1 1"    i         Exchequer,  i 

19  Ed*  ird  1 1 
(2.)  M  imorandurn  "  C 

Qll;  R 

(3.)  Regulatii  "   to 

Papei         H       rd  1 


Cd.   4 


274        o   a 


729  0     5 


Cd.    1176  0     2  J 


Cd.   ;  0    3 


Cd.   2234  0     4  J 


Cd.   2708  0     3 


Cd.  3162  0     (ty 


Cd.   3  0     4 


CI.    1312  0     2  J 


(d.  •<  0     2 


I  'I  ii      4 


10 


\  • 
of 

Chief  Contents. 

No.  of 

l'npor. 

Trioe. 

1911 
IBIS 

n 

Report  of  Prooeedinga  end  Appendix 
(1.)  List     of     Deed*     deposited     by 

Mr.    B.   J.    Frenoh. 
i  tteiogue  ofAooonnte  in  the  Pipe 

Rolls  of  the  Iri^li  Exchequer,  2  to 

t>  Edward  Ml 
Report  of  Prooeedinga  and  Appendix 
(1.)  Catalogue    of    AocountflJ    in    the 

1'ipo  Rolla  of  the   Irish  Exchequer, 

8  and  9  Edward  III. 

( Id.   f'000 
Cd.   6432 

0     3J 
0     3 

DA  25  . D319  v.U  IMS 
Great  Britain.  Public  Record 
Calendar  of  the  close  rolls 
preserved  in  the  Public  Reco 


PONTlflCAt-    (NSriTlTtfc 

OF    MEDIAEVAL    STUDIES 

99     QUCEN'S     PARK 

f OWNTO    3.    Canada- 


f 


E 


/ 


V 


m 

\t» 

M 

1 

i 

■ 

§ 

\T~ 

t  f ~ 

B 

.hs^rf- 

1  I 

I   / 

'  t^        "'^ 

■ 

I  ■  * 

W»-~ 

HIS 

V'    2^^~— 

X'5 

.:  ij^.^#c~ 

-■..-_-.--. 

I 


t 


J    His 

1     ■ 

I  ■  " 


li 


