











Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 351-400 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 2, Henry VII










Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 351-400










Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 2, Henry VII. 


Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1915.






This free content was digitised using optical character recognition. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




Maskelyne,  H. C. Maxwell Lyte, 'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 351-400', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 2, Henry VII (London,  1915), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/series2-vol2/pp223-251 [accessed 2 July 2026].





Maskelyne,  H. C. Maxwell Lyte, 'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 351-400', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 2, Henry VII(London,  1915), British History Online,  accessed July 2, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/series2-vol2/pp223-251.





Maskelyne,  H. C. Maxwell Lyte. "Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 351-400". Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 2, Henry VII. (London, 1915), British History Online. Web. 2 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/series2-vol2/pp223-251.














Keyword Highlight

Search








Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 351-400





351. 
RICHARD NEWTON.




Writ 22 October, inquisition 29 October, 16 Henry VII.




Richard Newton, esquire, named in the writ, died 26 October, 16 Henry VII (sic), seised of the under-mentioned manor, &c. in fee. Isabel and Joan, aged 13 and more and 5 and more, are his daughters and heirs.

Cf. Nos. 401, 421, 470.
[Page 224]




SOMERSET. 

Manor of Obleygh, 200a. arable, 80a. meadow, 100a. wood, 100a. pasture, 300a. waste, in Obleygh, worth 23l. 2s. 3d., held of the king in chief by knight service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (108.) E. Series II. File 897(a). (3.)





352. 
JAMES WHITNEY, esquire.




Writ 10 August, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 21 October, 16 Henry VII.




He was seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and, being so seised, by charter under his seal, 5 June, 12 Henry VII, by the name of James Whiteney, esquire, son and heir of Robert Whiteney, esquire, enfeoffed James Baskervile, knight, and others, as in No. 261, thereof, for the performance of his last will; the survivors, James Baskervile being dead, are still so seised.

He died 31 July (sic) last past. Robert Whiteney aged 6 and more, is his son and heir, by Blanch, his wife, daughter of Simon Milborn, esquire.




WARWICK. 

Manor, or lordship, of Clifton, worth 20 marks, held of John, lord de Zouche, as of his manor of Weston, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (109.) E. Series II. File 1115, Part VI. (7.)





353. 
WILLIAM YELVERTON, esquire.




Writ 6 July, 15 Henry VII; inquisition Monday after All Hallows, 16 Henry VII.




One John Paston and William Grey, esquires, were seised of the under-mentioned manors, &c. in fee, and, being so seised, by charter demised them to, the said William and Anne his wife, daughter of John Paston, esquire, for the term of their lives in survivorship, with remainder after their decease to Thomas Howard, then knight, now earl of Surrey, William Knyvett, knight, and Edmund Paston, who survive, their heirs and assigns, for the performance of the last will of the said William Yelverton. William and Anne were seised thereof accordingly in their demesne as of free tenement, with remainder thereof, as above, and afterwards, viz. 10 Henry VII, the said Anne died, and afterwards, viz. 21 March. 14 Henry VII, the said William Yelverton by charter indented agreed with Robert Drury, knight, in consideration of divers sums of money paid and to be paid to divers persons at his request by the said Robert, that the said Robert from the day of the agreement should have all the said manors, &c. for the term of his, Robert’s, life, and he requested his feoffees to perform the said agreement.

He died 20 June last past. William Yelverton, aged 5 and more, is his son and heir.




NORFOLK. 

Manors of Rakheith Hall, Dakenham Hall and Burwodes, with the advowson of the church of All Saints of Rakheith, 300a. heath, 200a. pasture, 100a. land, in Rakheith, Sprowston, Beeston by Sprowston, Crosthweyte, Wroxham, Salows, Plumsted, Bastwyke, Yelverton, Holveston and Little (Parva) Framyngham; all the premises, except the lands and tenements in Yelverton, are held of the abbot of St. Benet of Hulm, in right of his monastery by 4d. rent yearly, for all service, and all the lands, &c. in Yelverton are held of the heirs of Hugh Bakunsthorp by [Page 225]1/4 of a knight’s fee; all the premises, except the lands &c. in Yelverton, are worth 10l., and the said tenements in Yelverton are worth 40s.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (110.)





354. 
WILLIAM LEXHAM, esquire.




Writ 15 May, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 29 October, 16 Henry VII.




He died 10 February, 15 Henry VII, seised of the under-mentioned manor of Reynham in fee and of the under-mentioned manor of Houghton in fee tail. Margaret wife of William Lynne, aged 30 and more, Frances wife of Lawrence Dudley, aged 26 and more, Joan Lexham, aged 15 and more and Katharine Lexham, aged 14 and more, are his daughters and heirs.




NORFOLK. 

Manor of Reynham in Burnham Westgate, Burnham Norton, Burnham Sutton, Burnham St. Andrew, Burnham Ulp, Burnham St. Edmund and Burnham Thorpe, worth 10l., held of the king, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by knight-service.

Manor of Houghton, worth 10 marks, held of the king, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by knight-service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (111.)





355. 
HUMPHREY GREY, esquire.




Writ 20 May, 15 Henry VII; inquisition Monday the Commemoration of Souls, 16 Henry VII.




Edmund, earl of Kent, William Calthorp, knight, and Henry Boteler, gentleman, were seised of the under-mentioned manor and advowson in fee, and, being so seised, demised them to the said Humphrey, Thomas Tresham, knight, John Bellers, William Catesby, son and heir of William Catesby, knight, William Alyngton and William Feldyng, since deceased, and Everard Feldyng, who survives, their heirs and assigns, to the use of the said Humphrey and Anne his wife and the heirs male of their bodies; the said Everard is now seised thereof to the use of the said Anne for the term of her life, with remainder as aforesaid.

Date of death not given. Edward Grey, aged 28 and more, is his son and heir.




NORFOLK. 

Manor of Saxthorp, worth 20l., and the advowson of the free chapel there, held of George, earl of Kent, by fealty.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (112.)





356. 
HUMPHREY GREY, esquire.




Writ 16 December, 15 Henry VII; inquisition Monday before All Hallows, 16 Henry VII.




Long before his decease he was seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and, being so seised, by charter enfeoffed John Ansty, Richard Wrygth, Richard Coke and William Smyth thereof, who, being seised thereof accordingly in fee enfeoffed him and Anne, then his wife, thereof, to hold to them and the heirs male of their bodies, with remainder in default to the heirs [Page 226]male of his body, by virtue of which they were seised thereof in their demesne as of fee tail. She survived him and continued her possession and is yet alive.

He died 11 December last. Edward Grey, aged 28 and more, is his son and heir.




WARWICK. 

Manor of Wythibroke, worth 20 marks, held of John, prior of St. John of Jerusalem in England, as of the manor of Balsale, by 16s. 10d. rent, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (113.) E. Series II. File 1115. Part VI. (4.)





357. 
HUMPHREY GREY, esquire.




Writ 20 May, 15 Henry VII; inquisition Tuesday before All Hallows, 16 Henry VII.




He was seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and, being so seised, enfeoffed William Sensam and John Hardwyn thereof, who, &c. Other findings as in No. 356.




LEICESTER. 

Manor of Nayleston, worth 16l., held of George, earl of Kent, by fealty only, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (114.) E. Series II. File 1115. Part VI. (5.)





358. 
JOHN ELYS.




Writ 16 February, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 23 October, 16 Henry VII.




He died 4 May, 15 Henry VII, seised of the under-mentioned manor, &c. in fee. John Elys, aged 9 and more, is his son and heir.




CAMBRIDGE. 

Manor of Burne called ‘Elys maner’ and divers lands, &c. in the town of Burne, worth 10 marks, held of the lady Margaret, countess of Richemond, as of the honor of Richemond, by knight service, viz. by service of one knight’s fee. The said countess after the death of the said John Elys, the father, entered thereon, and received from the time of his death, and still receives, the issues and profits thereof.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (115.)





359. 
ANNE WILLOUGHBY.




Writ 2 November, 15 Henry VII (sic); inquisition Monday, 2 November, 16 Henry VII.




Richard Wylloughby, esquire, and the said Anne were seised of all her purparty of the under-mentioned manors which descended to her after the decease of John Conyers, her father, in fee; and, being so seised, the said Richard and Anne, by the names of Richard Willoughby, esquire, son of Christopher Willoughby, knight, lord de Willoughby de Erysby, and Anne wife of the same Richard, one of the daughters and heirs of John Conyers, esquire, enfeoffed William Wylloughby, lord de Willoughby de Eresby, Henry Heydon, knight, and others, thereof, for the performance of the last will of the said Richard and Anne, and of either of them; and they were seised thereof in fee accordingly to the use abovesaid; and the said Anne, long before her [Page 227]decease and before espousals between her and the said Richard Wylloughby, to wit 20 September, 15 Henry VII, made her last will and thereby ordered that the said Richard Willoughby should have all her manors, &c. in the county of Norfolk, or elsewhere, which descended to her after the death of the said John Conyers, her father, for the term of his life; and afterwards she took the said Richard to husband, and died.

She died 25 September last past. John Spilman, aged 9 and more, is her son and heir. Cf. Nos. 298, 731.




NORFOLK. 

Manor of Skulton, worth 20l., held of William, viscount Beaumont, service unknown.

Manor of Great (Magna) Elyngham, worth 20 marks, held of William, viscount Beaumont, as of the manor of Wormegey, service unknown.

Manors of Totyngton and Bawsey, worth 20l., held of Edmund, earl of Suffolk, as of the honor of Eye, service at present unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (116.)





360. 
ROBERT KNYGHTESTON.




Writ 6 June, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 26 November, 16 Henry VII.




Walter Copleston, Richard Pree and Matthew Jule, were seised of the under-mentioned land, &c. in Knyghteston and Fenne in fee, and, being so seised, by charter indented, 20 November, 5 Henry VII, demised them to the said Robert, and Alice his wife, and Robert’s heirs and assigns; they were seised thereof accordingly, Robert in fee and Alice in her demesne as of free tenement; he died so seised and she survived him and is yet living.

He died Friday after the Ascension last past, seised of the other under-mentioned lands in fee. Mabel, wife of Nicholas Bysshopp, aged 30 and more, Clarice, wife of Matthew Bysshop, aged 26 and more, and Margery, wife of John Kyngwyll, aged 25 and more, are daughters and heirs, and Richard Lytylton, aged 24 and more, is cousin and one of the heirs, of the said Robert, the said Richard being son of Joan, fourth daughter of the said Robert.




DEVON. 

A messuage, 100a. land, 20a. meadow, 10a. wood, 100a. furze and heath, in Knyghteston, worth 26s. 8d., held of the dean and chapter of the cathedral church of St. Peter of Exeter, by fealty and 40s. rent yearly.

A hundred acres of land, 10a. meadow, 3a. wood, 30a. furze and heath, in Fenne, worth 20s., held of the bishop of Exeter, as of the manor of Crediton, by fealty and 20s. rent yearly.

Four messuages, 100a. land, 20a. meadow, 10a. wood and 100a. furze and heath, in Wetherygge, or Wytherygge, worth 30s., held of Edmund Carewe, knight, as of the manor of Wytherygge, by fealty only, for all service.

A messuage, 4a. land, in Nymetbowe, worth 5s., held of John, lord de Fitzwaryn, by fealty and 4s. 3d. rent yearly.

Four shillings rent issuing from a messuage, 40a. land, 10a. meadow, 10a. wood and 40a. furze and heath, in Bradelegh, held of the lady Elizabeth (sic), countess of Richemond, as of her castle of Barnstaple, by fealty only; it is worth 4s. over and above outgoings.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (117.)



[Page 228]


361. 
EDWARD TRUSSELL, son and heir of WILLIAM TRUSSELL, knight.




Writ of Devenerunt, 14 July, 15 Henry VII; inquisition Monday after St. Luke, the Evangelist, 16 Henry VII.




William Trussell, knight, named in the writ, was seised the day he died of the under-mentioned manor in fee, which after his death and by reason of the minority of Edward Trussell, his son and heir, came to, and still is, in the king’s hands.

The said Edward died 10 July, 14 Henry VII. Elizabeth, aged 4 and more, is his daughter and heir.




NORFOLK. 

Manor of Woburne, worth 13l. 6s. 8d., held of the king in chief, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (118.)





362. 
ROBERT HILLERSDON.




Writ 12 October, inquisition 6 November, 16 Henry VII.




One Andrew Hillersdon, his father, whose heir he was, was seised of the under-mentioned land, &c. in Hillersdon, Chitelhampton and Honychurche, in fee, and, being so seised, by charter, 14 January, 6 Edward IV, enfeoffed him and Joan his wife, who survives, thereof, to hold to them and the heirs of his body.

William Strecchelegh, the elder, and John Huchyn, were seised of the under-mentioned land, &c. in Mynmyngyslond and Lamside, &c. in fee, and, being so seised, by charter indented 21 April, 1 Richard III, devised them to the said Robert and Joan, and the heirs of their bodies by the said Robert begotten; they were seised thereof accordingly in fee tail, and she survived and yet lives.

He died 22 August last past, seised of the other under-mentioned lands, &c. in fee. Andrew Hillersdon, aged 27 and more, is his son and heir.




DEVON. 

A moiety of ten messuages, 30a. land, and 6a. meadow, in Hill by Exmouth, worth 10s., held of the king in chief, by knight service, to find a bailiff every second year to serve the king in the office of bailiff of the hundred of Estbudlegh in the said county.

Ten messuages, 300a. land in Grymeston and Grymestonlegh, worth 40s., held of Humphrey Walrond and John Holeway, by fealty only, for all service.

Eight messuages, 100a. land, in Burne, worth 12s., held of John Fraunces, by fealty only, for all service.

A hundred acres of land, in Seyntleonardisdowne without the south gate of the city of Exeter, worth 40s., held of Thomas Polluxfen, by fealty only, for all service.

Four messuages, 100a. land, in Doniston, worth 20s., held of William Cole, by fealty only, for all service.

Four messuages, 2a. land, in the borough of Tottenes, worth 6s. 8d., held of Piers Eggecombe, knight, by fealty only, for all service.

Seven messuages, 300a. land, in Hillersdon, nine messuages, 200a. land, in Chitelhampton, and four messuages, 100a. land, in Honychurche, worth 40s., held of John More, by fealty only.
[Page 229]

Four messuages, 200a. land in Mynmyngyslond, and twelve messuages, 300a. land in Lamside, Poole and Alveston and Carswill, worth 10 marks, held of John More, by fealty only, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (119.)





363. 
GEORGE STRATTON.




Commission of concealments, 10 July, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 15 October, 16 Henry VII.




Robert Brews, esquire, John Cheke, and Benet Caldewell, were seised of the under-mentioned manor of Kirton Hall in fee, and, being so seised, by charter gave it to Thomas Sampson, esquire, William Grys, William Eyr, Edmund Bokkyng and John Caldewell, their heirs and assigns, for the term of the life of Elizabeth Stratton, wife of George Stratton, and for her use during that term, with remainder to the said George Stratton, and the heirs male of his body begotten. The said Thomas Sampson and his co-feoffees were and still are seised thereof accordingly in their demesne as of free tenement, and the said George was seised of the remainder of the said manor as of fee tail.

The said George Stratton was seised of the under-mentioned manor of Thurkelton in fee, and died so seised, whereupon the said manor descended to one George Stratton, as his son and heir.

The said George Stratton died Friday after Whitsuntide, 13 Henry VII.

The said George Stratton is son and heir of the said George, the father, and was aged 10 years and more on the day of the taking of this inquisition. See No. 231.




SUFFOLK. 

Manor of Kirton Hall, worth 10l., held of the king, as of the honor of Clare, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Thurkelton, in Kirton aforesaid, worth 13 marks, held of the king, as of the said honor of Clare, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (120.)





364. 
JOHN DRURY, esquire.




Commission of concealments, 10 July, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 15 October, 16 Henry VII.




He died 8 January, 14 Henry VII, seised of the under-mentioned land, &c. in fee. John Drury, aged 3 and more, is his son and heir. Cf. No. 308.




SUFFOLK. 

A messuage, 100a. land, 20a. pasture, 6a. meadow, 12a. wood and 20s. rent, in Cowlynge, worth 10 marks, held of the king, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by knight-service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (121.)





365. 
WILLIAM NEWGATE.




Commission of concealments, 10 July, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 15 October, 16 Henry VII.




He is outlawed for felony and murder, as remains of record in the King’s Bench, and at the time he was outlawed was seised of the under-mentioned land, &c. in fee.
[Page 230]




NORFOLK. 

A messuage, 200a. land, 40a. pasture, in Apton and Apilton, worth 100s., held of the king, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (122.)





366. 
JOHN ABTHORP.




Commission of concealments, 10 July, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 15 October, 16 Henry VII.




John Abthrop, or Abthorp, died 25 April, 15 Henry VII, seised of the under-mentioned manor, &c. in fee. Margaret and Elizabeth Abthorp, aged 18 and 13 and more, are his daughter and heirs.




SUFFOLK. 

A messuage, 100a. land, 24a. pasture, 8a. meadow, 6a. wood, and 16s. rent, in Gaysle and Kentford, worth 8 marks, held of the king, by knight-service, as of the honor of Clare.

Manor of Fakenham, worth 8l. 6s. 8d., held of the king, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by knight-service.





C. Series. II. Vol. 14. (123.)





367. 
ROBERT THORESBY.




Writ 19 November, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 29 October, 16 Henry VII.




He died 4 November, 15 Henry VII, seised of the under-mentioned manors in fee. Henry Thorysby, aged 24 and more, is his son and heir.




NORFOLK. 

Manor of Asshe Wytten, worth 5 marks, held of Ralph Cheney, service unknown.

Manor of Hyllyngden, called ‘Borehalle,’ worth 4 marks, held of John son of Ralph Cheney, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (124.)





368. 
JOAN WARRE late wife of RICHARD WARRE, esquire.




Writ 27 January, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 3 November, 16 Henry VII.




Findings as in No. 320.




WILTS. 

Manor of Pytton, with the exception of 60a. land, 40a. pasture and 20a. meadow, is held of the king by petty serjeanty, viz. by fealty and a rent of three barbed arrows at Michaelmas yearly for all service; the said excepted lands are held of the abbess and convent of the monastery of St. Mary of Winchester, service unknown; the said manor with the above exceptions is worth 5 marks; the said excepted lands are worth 20s.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (125.)





369. 
JOHN PERCY.




Writ 20 May, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 10 January, 16 Henry VII.




He died 14 May, 15 Henry VII, seised of the under-mentioned manors and rent in fee. John Percy, aged 22 and more, is his son and heir.
[Page 231]




DEVON. 

Manors of Wydecombe and Whitlegh in the parish of Fareway, worth 20 marks, held of Sir Edward Courtenay, knight, earl of. Devon, as of the honor of the castle of Plympton, by knight-service.

A rent of 26s. 8d. issuing from the manor of Gattecombe in the parish of Colyton; the said manor is held of Richard Pomeray, esquire, as of the honor of the castle of Bury, by knight-service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (126.)





370. 
THOMAS SHELLEY.




Writ 24 January, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 21 November, 16 Henry VII.




Thomas Shelley, of London, mercer, named in the writ, was seised of the under-mentioned land, &c., and, being so seised, enfeoffed Robert Weston, Edmund Worsley, Nicholas Shelton, William Burwell, John Redyngton and Thomas Byrche, or Brygges, thereof, and afterwards the said Edmund Worsley died, and the said Robert Weston and the others held and hold the premises by survivorship.

He died 20 January 15 Henry VII. Alice Randyll, aged 25 and more, wife of Thomas Randyll, citizen and tailor of London, is his daughter and heir.




HERTS. 

A messuage and 300a. land in the towns, parishes and fields of Hoddesdon, Estwyke, Wydford, Stansted and Warre, or elsewhere in the county; value and tenure not specified.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (127.) E. Series II. File 293. (22.)





371. 
RALPH, EARL OF WESTMERLAND.




Commission 24 November, inquisition 6 February, 16 Henry VII.




He died the last day of July, 14 Henry VII, seised of the under-mentioned manors, &c. in fee. Ralph Nevell is his cousin and heir, viz. son of Ralph his son, and is aged 3 and more.

The king has taken the issues and profits of the said manors, &c. from the time of the earl’s death to the day of the taking of this inquisition.




DEVON. 

Manors of Shebbeare, Lifton, Kenton and Cheddescomb, and 18l. 13s. 4d. rent by reason of a certain fee farm yearly issuing from the manor of Brampton Abbot (Abbatis); the said manors and the rest of the premises are held of the king in chief by knight-service, and are worth 112l. yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (128.)





372. 
HUGH HORWODE, gentleman.




Commission 11 February, inquisition 20 March, 16 Henry VII.




He died 14 August last, seised of the under-mentioned manor, &c. in fee. Joan, aged 40 and more, wife of Richard Savage, Katharine, aged 36, wife of John Frythe, Alice, aged 30, wife of Thomas Lend, and Christine, aged 26 and more, wife of Ingilram Prior, are his sisters and heirs.




HANTS. 

Manor of Polhampton by Asshe, worth 4 marks, held of the king, as of the escheat of the king’s ancestors by the death of the count of Aumale, by service of 1/6 of a knight’s fee.
[Page 232]

Two hundred and forty acres of several pasture, in Overton and Kyngesclere, worth 20s., held of the king in chief, by service of 1/8 of a knight’s fee.

A messuage and 100a. land, in Preston Candever, worth 4 marks, held of John Langford, knight, by service of 1d. rent yearly, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (129.)





373. 
HUMPHREY DORE.




Writ 25 January, inquisition Saturday after the feast of St. David, the bishop, 16 Henry VII.




He was seised in fee the day he died of the under-mentioned messuage called ‘Catley,’ and his sisters are his next heirs.

On the day he died Roger Hardewyck, Richard Acton, Thomas Pole and Roger Smyth, of Bromyord, were seised of the under-mentioned land, &c. in Bromyord, and pastures called ‘Fawstynes’ and ‘Pleysty,’ in fee, to the use of the said Humphrey Dore and the heirs of his body begotten, and for default of such issue to the use of John Mortymer, knight, and his heirs, as appears by the writing, intention and will of the said Humphrey shown to the jurors. He died without heir of his body begotten, and, after his death, the said Roger, and the others, are seised thereof to the use of the said John Mortymer, knight, and his heirs for ever.

One John Wynnock and Roger Smyth were seised of the under-mentioned land, &c. called ‘Stewardes Hyde’ in fee, and, being so seised, by charter gave them to one John Vaughan, to hold to him and Joan, his wife, and the heirs of his body lawfully begotten, and, for default of such heirs remainder thereof to the said Humphrey Dore, and the heirs of his body lawfully begotten, and, if he died without such heir, remainder thereof to William Dore and the heirs of his body lawfully begotten, and for default of such heirs remainder thereof to the said John Mortymer, knight, and his heirs for ever; by virtue of which gift the same John Vaughan and Joan his wife were seised thereof in their demesne as of fee tail and died so seised thereof without heir of their (sic) bodies begotten; and the said William Dore died without heir of his body lawfully begotten; after whose death the said Humphrey Dore entered thereon, as in his remainder by virtue of the gift, and was seised thereof in his demesne as of fee tail by the form of the gift, and died so seised without heir of his body lawfully begotten, after whose death the said land, &c. remained to the said John Mortymer, knight, and his heirs for ever.

The day he died he held the under-mentioned messuage called ‘Lyndehouse’ in socage.

The day he died he was seised in fee of the under-mentioned land called ‘Ballescote.’

He died 18 November, 16 Henry VII. Margery, aged 36 and more, wife of Richard Acton, and Joyce, aged 30 and more, wife of Humphrey Saunders, are his sisters and heirs.




HEREFORD. 

A messuage in Tedstarn Delamare, called ‘Catley,’ worth 30s., held of John Wisham, as of his manor of Tedstarn Delamare, by service of 1/4 of a knight’s fee.

A messuage, 100a. land, 40a. meadow, 20a. pasture and 10a. wood, in Norton Saltmarshe, Norton and Fyndeschurche, in the parish of [Page 233]Bromyord, 40a. pasture called ‘Fawstynes’ and ‘Pleysty’; the said messuages called ‘Norton Saltmarshe,’ ‘Norton Fyndeschurche’ and the said pastures called ‘Fawstynes’ and ‘Pleysty,’ are worth 40s., and are held of John Mortymer, knight, as of his manor of Edvyn Loche, service unknown.

A messuage, 100a. land, 40a. meadow, 20a. pasture, 10a. wood, called ‘Stewardes Hyde’; the said messuage and 20a. meadow, parcel of the 40a. meadow, are held of the bishop of Hereford, and the residue, called ‘Downe,’ is held of the heirs of James Whytney, service unknown; value not stated.

A messuage in Tedstarn Delamare, called ‘Lyndehouse,’ held in socage of John Wisham, as of his manor of Tedstarn, by 3s. 4d. rent to be paid to the said John, and by what other services the jurors know not; value not stated.

Forty acres of land and 10a. pasture in Tedstarn aforesaid, called ‘Ballescote,’ held of the said John Wisham in socage and by 10s. rent therefore, and by what other services the jurors know not; value not stated.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (130.) E. Series II. File 410. (2.)





374. 
MARGARET who was the wife of THOMAS WODE and late the wife of ROBERT LEYNHAM, esquire.




Writ of Mandamus 19 May, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 4 November, 16 Henry VII. after the death of Margaret Wode, late the wife of Thomas Wode one of the justices of the Common Bench and sometime wife of Robert Leynham, esquire.




Alexander Holway, John Clerke, John Blyse, John Peytowe and John Wyder were seised of the under-mentioned manor of Tydmersshe and mill, &c. in Pangbourne, in fee, and, being so seised, by charter gave them to the said Robert Leynham, named in the writ, and to the said Margaret, then his wife, to them and the heirs of their bodies between them begotten, with remainder in default to the right heirs and next heirs of the said Robert for ever; they were seised thereof accordingly in fee tail by the form of the gift and had issue between them one Henry Leynham now living, and Robert afterwards died so seised and Margaret was solely seised thereof in fee tail by survivorship, and so seised died.

One William Stonour, knight, Thomas Restwold, Henry Makney and William Shepewaysshe, were seised of the under-mentioned manor of Saundervile in fee, and, being so seised, demised it to the said Robert and Margaret and the heirs of his body begotten, with remainder in default to his right heirs; they were seised thereof accordingly he in fee tail and she in her demesne as of free tenement, and she survived him and died so seised.

The said Robert Leynham was seised of the under-mentioned messuage and 40a. land in Southmorton and manor of Sillesham in fee, and died so seised; the custody of which messuage, land and manor and of the said Henry Leynham, the king had by the death of the said Robert and by reason of the minority of the said Henry, Robert’s son and heir, and that custody by his letters patent granted to one John Cottesmore, esquire.

She died 5 December, 14 Henry VII. The said Henry Leynham is her son and heir, and he was sixteen years old at Michaelmas last.
[Page 234]




BERKS. 

Manor of Tydmersshe, worth 10 marks, held of Arthur, prince of Wales, as of the honor of Wallynford, service unknown.

A water-mill and two messuages in Pangbourne, worth 40s., held of the abbot of Redyng, service unknown.

Manor of Saundervile, otherwise called ‘Sandervile,’ in Southmorton, worth 10l., not held of the king in chief, but held of the king by knight-service by reason of the knights’ fees which came to the hands of the king’s progenitors by purchase from Isabel de Fortibus, countess of Aumale.

A messuage and 40a. land in Southmorton.

Manor of Sillesham, or Syndelysham.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (131.)





375. 
ANKUR (Ancharius or Aucharius) BEAUCHAMP.




Writ of Mandamus 3 August, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 6 November, 16 Henry VII.




Long before his death he was seised of the under-mentioned manor, &c. in fee, and, being so seised, by charter gave them to Giles Grevile, Robert Morgan, and Roger Rudyng, their heirs and assigns, for the performance of his will, to wit, that after his decease they should make a sufficient estate in law thereof to Avice Beauchamp, his wife, for her life, upon her due request, and that, after her decease, the said Giles and Roger should release to the said Robert Morgan, his heirs and assigns, all their right in the said manor, &c. under the form following, to wit, that the said Robert Morgan, and his heirs, shall find a fit priest to pray for the soul of the said Ankur, and of his ancestors, until the whole rent of the said manor, &c. for the space of twelve years shall be fully paid.

He died 25 April, 11 Henry VII. The said Avice has taken and had all the issues and profits of the said manor, &c. from the said 25th day in the 11th year abovesaid to the day of the taking of this inquisition. Cf. No. 405.




WORCESTER. 

Manor of Little (Parva) Comberton, worth 6l., held of the king, as of the barony of Elmeley, by 6s. rent yearly, for all service.

A close in Elmeley Castell, worth 4s., held of the king, as of the barony of Elmeley aforesaid, by 1d. rent yearly, for all service.

Three tenements in Pensam, worth 20s., and a croft in Wykeburnell, worth 3s., held of the lord Burnell, service unknown.

A tenement in Pershore, worth 6s. 8d., held of the said lord Burnell, by a rent of 2s. yearly, for all service.

Three acres of meadow in Ekynton, worth 15s., held of the abbot of St. Peter’s, Westminster, service unknown.

Six acres of land in Birlingham, worth 2s., held of the same abbot, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (132.)





376. 
WILLIAM TENDRYNG.




Writ of Amotus 14 November, inquisition 19 November, 16 Henry VII.




William Tenderyng named in the writ died 20 May, 14 Henry VII, seised of the under-mentioned manor and advowson in fee tail, without heir male of his body begotten. Richard Tenderyng, aged 30 and more, is his brother and next heir male.
[Page 235]




ESSEX. 

Manor and advowson of Little (Parva) Byrch, the manor worth 9l., held of John, earl of Oxford, as of the manor of Hynnyngham at Castle (ad castrum), by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee and 2s. rent yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (133.) E. Series II. File 293. (21.)





377. 
EDWARD TRUSSELL son and heir of WILLIAM TRUSSELL, knight.




Writ of Devenerunt 14 July, 15 Henry VII; inquisition 12 November, 16 Henry VII.




William Trussell, the father, was seised of the under-mentioned manors and advowsons in fee and, being so seised, by charter, 5 May, 15 Edward IV, gave them to John Vernam, clerk, William Rawlyns, clerk, Thomas Fyssher, clerk, John Swan, ‘taillour,’ and Humphrey Belcher, their heirs and assigns, by virtue of which feoffment they were seised thereof in fee. Which manors and advowsons after the death of the said William Trussell and by reason of the minority of Edward Trussell, his son and heir, came to, and still are in the king’s hands.

The said Edward died 10 June, 15 Henry VII. Heir as in No. 361.




ESSEX. 

Manor and advowson of Kenyngton, worth 10 marks, held of the prior and convent of Prytiwell, by fealty and 30s. rent yearly.

Manor and advowson of Wemyngton, worth 10 marks, held of the abbot and convent of Westminster, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (134.) E. Series II. File 293. (23.)





378. 
HUMPHREY FORSTER.




Writ 18 November, inquisition 14 January, 16 Henry VII, after the death of Humphrey Forster, esquire.




Alice Popham was seised of the under-mentioned manor, &c. in fee, and being so seised took to husband the said Humphrey, and they had issue between them George Forster; and afterwards she died, after whose death the reversion thereof descended to the said George as her son and heir, and the said Humphrey continued his possession therein as tenant by the curtesy, by virtue of which he was seised thereof in his demesne as of free tenement, and died so seised.

He died 20 November last. The said George, aged 34 and more, is his son and heir.




WILTS. 

Moiety of the manor of Stepillangford and the alternate presentation of the church of the same manor, worth 10 marks, held of the king in chief, by service of 1/4 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of West Grymstede, worth 8 marks, held of John Wenman, esquire, by fealty only, for all service.

Fourth part of twelve messuages and of two gardens in the city of Salisbury, worth 30s., held of the bishop of Salisbury, by fealty and the rent of the fourth part of 12s., for all service.

Fourth part of a messuage, 40a. land, 20a. pasture, 10a. meadow and 2a. wood, in West Deane, worth 5s., held of John Hodelston, knight, as of the manor of Westdeane, by fealty and the rent of a fourth part of 6s. 8d. yearly, for all service.





C. Series. II. Vol. 14. (135.)



[Page 236]


379. 
HUMPHREY FORSTER.




Writ 18 November, inquisition after the death of Humphrey Forster, esquire, 12 January, 16 Henry VII.




Findings as in No. 378.




HANTS. 

Manor of Faryngdon Popham, worth 5 marks, held of the bishop of Exeter, by fealty only, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (136.)





380. 
HUMPHREY FORSTER.




Writ 18 November, inquisition 16 January, 16 Henry VII.




Findings as in No. 378.




DORSET. 

Fourth part of two parts of a messuage and a carucate of land, in Podelbarierston (sic), worth 100s., held of the honor of the duchy of York, by service of 1/8 of a knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (137.) E. Series II. File 897a. (8.)





381. 
WILLIAM LENTALL.




Writ wanting; inquisition 4 November, 15 Henry VII.




He was seised with Katharine his wife of the under-mentioned manor, as of her right and hereditament, in tee fail, and died so seised, and she survived him and is still living and continues her possession thereof.

He died 28 July, 13 Henry VII. Thomas Lentall, aged 18 and more, is his son and heir.




OXFORD. 

Manor of Lachefford, worth 15l., held of the college of St. George within the castle of Wyndesore, by service of 1/4 of a knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (138.) E. Series II. File 780. (21.)





382. 
JOHN LOTYE.




Writ 8 April, 14 Henry VII; inquisition 5 November, 15 Henry VII.




He died 1 June last, seised of the under-mentioned messuages. Robert Lotye, aged 24 and more, is his son and heir.




SOMERSET. 

Five messuages in Dounstar, worth 7 marks, held of Hugh Luttrell, knight, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (139.) E. Series II. File 896. (19.)





383. 
JOHN HEVENYNGHAM, knight.




Writ 23 April, 14 Henry VII; inquisition the last day of October, 15 Henry VII.




Philippa, late duchess of York, and lady of the Isle of Wight, was seised of the under-mentioned manor of Southwekyngdon and two acres of land in Stifford in fee and advowsons of Southwekyngdon and Stifford in her demesne as of fee and right, and, being so seised, by charter gave them to Maurice Bruyn, knight, and Elizabeth, then his wife, and the heirs of their [Page 237]bodies issuing, with remainder in default to Maurice’s right heirs. The said Maurice and Elizabeth were seised thereof accordingly in fee tail, and, being so seised, had issue Henry Bruyn, knight, who had issue Alice and Elizabeth and died; and afterwards the said Maurice died, and the said Elizabeth survived him and was seised thereof, viz. of the manor in fee tail and of the advowsons as of fee and right, by the form of the gift; and afterwards the said Alice took to husband John Berners, esquire, and the said Elizabeth took to husband Thomas Tyrell, esquire, which John Berners died and the said Alice survived him and afterwards took to husband Robert Harleston, esquire, and the same Robert and Alice had issue John, and the same Robert died and the said Alice survived him; and the said Elizabeth, late the wife of Maurice, afterwards died, seised as aforesaid, after whose death the said manor and advowsons descended to the said Alice, and Elizabeth wife of the said Thomas Tirell, cousins and heirs of the said Maurice and Elizabeth of their bodies begotten, viz. daughters of Henry, son and heir of the said Maurice and Elizabeth, whereby the said Alice in her own right and the said Thomas Tirell and Elizabeth, in right of the said Elizabeth, entered on the said manor, &c. and were seised thereof, &c.; and the said Alice being so seised took to husband John Hevenyngham, knight, named in the writ, whereby the said John and Alice and the said Thomas and Elizabeth, in right of the said Alice and Elizabeth, were seised together and without division (insimul et pro indiviso) thereof, &c., and the said John and Alice had issue George, and afterwards the said Alice died, and both the said John, and the said Thomas and Elizabeth, survived her, and the said John after her death held a moiety of the premises as tenant by the curtesy and was seised thereof in his demesne as of free tenement, and died so seised.

Clement Harleston, son of the said John Harleston son of the said Robert Harleston and Alice his wife is next heir of the said Alice late the wife of the said John Hevenyngham of her body begotten; and the said Clement Harleston the son and one William Tyrell son of the said Thomas Tyrell and Elizabeth his wife, are cousins and next heirs of the said Maurice and Elizabeth, late his wife, of their bodies begotten in form aforesaid, and the said Clement is 5 years old and more, and the said William 30 years old and more. The said John Hevenyngham died 10 May last, and the aforesaid (sic) Thomas (written over erasure) Hevenyngham the son is next heir of the said John Hevenyngham, and is 30 years old and more.

The said John Hevenyngham was seised of the other under-mentioned manors, &c., in fee, and, being so seised, thereof enfeoffed James Hobart, the king’s attorney, John Yaxlee, serjeant-at-law, John Jermy, esquire, and William Coke, the younger, who survive, together with other, since deceased, for the performance of his last will, whereby he directed that his executors should take the issues and profits thereof for half a year from his decease, and that thereafter Thomas Hevenyngham, esquire, his son and heir should have the said manors, &c., to hold to him and the heirs male of his body.

He died 10 May, 14 Henry VII. The said Thomas Hevenyngham, esquire, aged 50 and more, is his son and heir. Cf. Nos. 306, 307, 425, 527.




ESSEX. 

Manor and advowson of Southwekyngdon, worth 40l., held of the king, as of the honor of Hereford, by service of one knight’s fee.

Two acres of land in Stifford, and the advowson of two parts of the church of Stifford to the said 2a. belonging, worth 6s. 8d., held of the lord Grey, service unknown.
[Page 238]

Manor of Totham, worth 10l., held of the king, as of the honor of Hagnet, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Goldanger, held of the king, as of the honor aforesaid, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Bergehalle, or Bregehall, held of the king, as of the honor of Rayley, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Flethall, and a mill in Styfford, held of the king as of the same honor, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (140.) E. Series II. File 293. (16.)





384. 
WILLIAM WHYTTON, gentleman.




Writ 20 May, inquisition 13 June, 15 Henry VII




William Whitton named in the writ was seised of the under-mentioned hamlets of Whitton and Wotton, and, being so seised, by deed, 20 December, 2 Henry VII, gave to Richard Sherman and John Aleyn of Ludlowe, a tenement in Whitton with three messuages and certain meadows and pastures to the same annexed, which William Hunte held, two messuages, with land, meadow and pasture belonging, which John Jowkes held, a messuage there, with land, meadow and pasture belonging, which Roger Newman held, another tenement there with land, meadow and pasture adjacent, commonly called ‘Tedneys,’ and a water mill there, also three messuages in Wotton next Whitton, with land, meadow, leasows and pastures thereto belonging, which George Stokwell held, a messuage with land, meadow and pasture annexed which Thomas Crompe held, all those meadows, lands and pastures there called ‘Wodecokkes Medewe’ and ‘Wodecokkes Fyldis’ lying together, with two pastures called ‘Broktons fyldis’ to the same annexed, which the said Thomas Crompe held as parcel of the hamlet of Whitton aforesaid, a messuage in Wotton aforesaid with all lands adjacent which John Kerry held, and a messuage in Wotton with all lands adjacent, which Margaret de Wotton held, with all rents, &c. to the said mill, &c. belonging, to hold to the said Richard and John Aleyn and their heirs, who being seised thereof accordingly in fee gave them to the said William Whitton and Margaret his wife and the heirs of their bodies between them begotten, with remainder in default to William’s right heirs. The said William and Margaret were seised thereof accordingly in fee tail, and afterwards he died and she was seised thereof by survivorship.

He died seised of the residue of the lands and tenements in Whitton and Wotton, and of the other under-mentioned land, &c., 15 March last past. John Whitton, aged 7 and more, is his son and heir.




SALOP. 

Hamlets of Whitton and Wotton, held of Thomas Cornewall, knight, as of the manor of Burforde, by knight-service, viz. by 1/9 of a knight’s fee; it (the residue) is worth 20s.

A messuage and tenement in Fayntre, with lands, rents, &c. thereto belonging, held of the king in free socage by a yearly rent of 4s., worth beyond outgoings 5 marks.

Six messuages in the town of Ludlowe, worth 20s., held in burgage by the rent of each burgage 1d.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (141.) E. Series II. File 832. (11.)



[Page 239]


385. 
ELIZABETH WALSH late the wife of JOHN WALSH.




Writ 8 October, inquisition 5 November, 15 Henry VII.




She died 1 September last past. John Walssh, aged 50 and more, is her son and heir.




SOMERSET. 

She held no lands.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (142.) E. Series II. File 896. (18.)





386. 
WILLIAM TEMMYS.




Writ 23 January, 14 Henry VII; inquisition 27 October, 15 Henry VII.




Long before his decease the said William Temse, named in the writ, was seised in fee of the under-mentioned manors, &c., and, being so seised, by the name of William Temse, the elder, of Rodeayssheton, by charter dated there, 16 May, 12 Henry VII, gave them by the name of all his lands, &c. in the hundreds of Whorweldown, Calne and Milkesham, or elsewhere, co. Wilts, to Robert Baynard, esquire, Christopher Tropenell, esquire, Philip Baynard, John Michell, Andrew Tooke and Nicholas Wardere, who were and still are seised thereof accordingly in fee, for the performance of his last will.

He died 8 January last past. William Temse, the elder, aged 19 and more, is his son and heir.




WILTS. 

Manor in Calston, called Calston Wely, held of the king in chief by fealty, rendering therefore yearly to the said king at Michaelmas 58s. 4d. for all service; it is worth yearly beyond outgoings 58s. 4d.

A close of meadow in Comerford, called ‘Clerkesmede,’ held of the treasurer of the cathedral church of Salisbury, in right of his prebend of Calne, by fealty and 10s. rent at Michaelmas yearly, for all service; it is worth beyond outgoings 10s.

Manor of Chapelayssheton. otherwise called Rodeayssheton, worth 66s. 8d., held of the abbess of Romsey, service unknown.

A messuage, 30a. land, 4a. meadow, in Hilperton, worth 10s., held of Thomas Coterell, esquire, service unknown.

A messuage, 12a. land, in Stepulayssheton and Henton, worth 5s., held of the said abbess of Romsey, service unknown.

Six acres of land, 10a. meadow, 30a. pasture, in Stockeley, or Stokley, and Calne, worth 20s., held of Thomas Longe, esquire, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (143.)





387. 
JOHN ALBERY.




Writ wanting; inquisition 6 November, 16 Henry VII.




Long before his decease he was seised of the under-mentioned manor, &c. in fee, and, being so seised, by charter gave them to Robert Morgan, esquire, who, being seised thereof accordingly in fee, by charter demised [them to] and thereof enfeoffed the said John Albery and Avice, his wife, and the heirs of John’s body; he was seised thereof accordingly in fee tail and she in her demesne as of free tenement; he died so seised and she survived him and is still so seised.

He died 4 July, 2 Henry VII. Roger Norton is his cousin and heir, aged 72 and more. The said Avice has taken the issues and profits of the said [Page 240]manor, &c. from the said twelfth (sic) day in the second year abovesaid to the day of the taking of this inquisition, by the title before written.




WORCESTER. 

Manor of Shyreves Nauntton, with land, &c. belonging, worth 6l., held of the king, as of the barony of Elmeley by the rent of a rose yearly, for all service.

A yearly rent of 10s. 4d. issuing from certain lands and tenements in Nauntton aforesaid.

A yearly rent of 6s. 8d. issuing from certain lands and tenements in Elmeley Castell.

A yearly rent of 10s. issuing from divers lands and tenements in Nafford.

A yearly rent of 4s. issuing from a tenement in Pershore.

A yearly rent of 10s. 6d. issuing from divers lands and tenements in Peplyngton.

A yearly rent of 3d. issuing from a certain messuage in Collesdon.

A yearly rent of 4s. 4d. issuing from certain lands and tenements in Fleford.

A yearly rent of 20s. issuing from certain lands and tenements in Broghton Hakett and Upton Waren.

A yearly rent of 29s. 2d. issuing from certain lands and tenements in Moreton Folyatt.

A parcel of meadow and a croft in Wenlond, worth 11s., held of William Bruggys, service unknown.

A tenement in Knyghtes Wassheborn, worth 8s., held of John Wassheborne, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (144.)





388. 
WILLIAM STAVELEY.




Writ 16 October, 14 Henry VII; inquisition the last day of October, 15 Henry VII.




Long before his decease he was seised in fee of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and, being so seised, by charter enfeoffed John Babyngton, Robert Harecourt, knights, John Savage, Richard Basset, John Horn and Thomas Langston, esquires, thereof, to the use of himself and Alice, then his wife, for the term of their lives in survivorship, and after their decease to the use of George Staveley, their son, and the heirs of his body, and for default of such issue to the use of the heirs of the bodies of the said William and Alice, and for default of such issue to the use of his last will. They are so seised thereof accordingly in fee to the uses abovesaid.

Long before his decease he was seised of the under-mentioned land, &c. in Burcester and Chesterton in fee, and, being so seised, enfeoffed the said Robert Harecourt, knight, and the said Alice then his wife, John Surdevall and Robert Marshall, clerks, thereof, to the use of himself and the said Alice and of his heirs, and for the performance of his last will. By his last will he directed that the said Alice should have the said land, &c. for the term of her life, and that William Staveley and John Staveley, his sons, after her decease should have the same to them and the heirs of their bodies, so that, if it happened either of them to be made priest (prisbiterari) the one not made priest should have the same, and if it happened both to be made priest or die, the [Page 241]said land should remain to Mary and Isabel, daughters of the said William and Alice, and the heirs of their bodies, and for default of such issue to the said Alice, her heirs and assigns.

Afterwards he died and the said Alice survived him and afterwards took to husband Humphrey Conyngesby, serjeant-at-law, whereby the said Humphrey and Alice, in her right, and the said Robert Harecourt, John Surdevalle and Robert Marshall, were, and still are seised of the said land, &c. to the uses abovesaid.

He died 10 October, 14 Henry VII. George Staveley, aged 24 and more, is his son and heir.




OXFORD. 

Manor of Bygnell, worth 20 marks, held of the king, as of the duchy of Lancaster, service unknown.

Lands and tenements called ‘Bollys’ and ‘Gylles’ in the town and fields of Burcester, worth 20s., held of the king, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by fealty only, for all service.

Lands and tenements called ‘Shoyslondes’ in Chesterton, worth 20s., held of the rector of the house and church of Assherigge, as of his manor of Chesterton, in right of that house and church, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (145.) E. Series II. File 780. (18.)





389. 
THOMAS SHILSTON.




Writ 26 October, inquisition the last day of October, 15 Henry VII.




He died 21 July last, seised of the under-mentioned manor, &c. in fee. Robert Shilston, aged 32 and more, is his son and heir.




DEVON. 

Manor of Godescote, worth 4l., held of John Franseys, as of his manor of Bratton, by 1/20 of a knight’s fee.

Two tenements in Westmore and Estlake, 200a. arable, 20a. wood, 10a. meadow, 20a. moor, worth 30s., held of John Kyrkeham, esquire, as of his manor of Whytcrosse, in free socage, by fealty and 2s. 6d. rent, for all service.

A messuage, 100a. arable, 10a. wood, 10a. meadow, in Hurdwyke, worth 10s., held of John Tremayn, esquire, as of the manor of South Sidenham, in free socage, by fealty and 2s. rent, for all service.

Ten acres of land in Lydeford, worth 8s., held of Arthur, prince of Wales, duke of Cornwall and earl of Chester, as of his manor of Lydeford, by fealty and 2s. rent, for all service.

Two messuages, 200a. arable, 20a. meadow, 100a. moor, in Cranford and Burdeswyll, worth 40s., held of John Rondell, as of his manor of Blakebrome, by fealty only, for all service.

Two messuages, 300a. arable, 20a. meadow, 20a. furze and heath, in Lywode and in Heth, worth 40s., held of Edward, lord de Hastynges, William Say, knight, and William Bampfeld, esquire, as of their manor of Weke Cobham, by knight service.

Two messuages, 200a. arable, 20a. moor, 12a. wood, 10a. meadow, in Shilston and Throwley, worth 40s., held of John Code, as of the manor of Throwley, in free socage, by fealty and 6d. rent yearly, for all service.

A messuage, 200a. arable, 10a. meadow, 20a. wood, in Gosseford, worth 40s., held of John Carewe of Haccomb, as of the manor of Estvalet, in free socage, by fealty and 2s. rent yearly, for all service.
[Page 242]

A messuage, 20a. arable, 5a. meadow, 2a. wood, in Byrcomb, worth 8s., held of the abbot of Tavystok, as of his manor of Boryngton, in free socage, by fealty and 2s. rent, for all service.

A messuage, 60a. arable, 10a. meadow, 5a. wood, in Bycote, worth 10s., held of John Bertlet, as of his manor of Bycote, by fealty and 1d. rent yearly, for all service.

A messuage, 20a. arable, 6a. meadow, 6a. wood, in Treweburgh, worth 8s., held of the aforesaid John Code, as of his manor of Gydlegh, by fealty and 4s. rent yearly, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (146.)





390. 
WILLIAM THORNEHYLL.




Writ wanting; inquisition 12 June, 15 Henry VII.




He was seised in fee the day he died of the under-mentioned manor, with the exceptions stated.

He was seised the day he died of the under-mentioned land, &c. in Fekesby, Halton, &c.

He died seised of the under-mentioned rent in Hyperom, &c.

John Sayvile, knight, Roger Hopton, knight, Thomas Lacy and Percival Amyas, esquires, were seised of the under-mentioned land, &c. in Rastryk in fee, and being so seised by charter gave them to the said William, named in the writ, and Elizabeth, his wife, and the heirs between them begotten; they were seised thereof accordingly in fee tail by the form of the gift, and he died so seised and she survived him and continued her possession and is yet living.

William Calverlay, esquire, John Webster, chaplain, Nicholas Leventhorp, Robert Leventhorp and Robert Chaloner were seised of the other under-mentioned lands in fee, and, being so seised, by charter gave them to the said William and Elizabeth, as above.

He died 9 April, 15 Henry VII. John Thornehyll aged 6 and more, is his son and heir.




YORK. 

Manor of Fekesby, except 3s. 4d. rent therein issuing from two messuages and 20a. land in the tenure of Thomas Wodde and John Lyndley, and except a messuage, 36a. land, called ‘Leghtrich,’ and a messuage and 70a. called ‘Knolles,’ and a close and 15a. land called ‘Heyes,’ and a close and 8a. land called ‘le Intake,’ parcels of the said manor; it is worth, with the above exceptions, 8l., and is held of the king, as of his lordship of Wakefeld, by fealty and 30s. 4d. rent, for all service.

Ten messuages, 200a. land, 300a. pasture, 200a. meadow, 40a. wood, in Fekesby, Halton, Clyfton, Byngley and Coldconyston; whereof the land, &c. in Halton are worth 5s. and are held of the prior of Bolton, service unknown; the tenements in Clyfton, worth 9s., of the heirs of Henry Sotehyll, service unknown; the tenements in Coldconyston, worth 2s., of the lord Clifford, by the rent of a capon, for all service; and the tenements in Bynglay, worth 2s., of —— Askley.

The rents and services due from the heirs of John Thorp, Richard Haldworth, Robert Thorp, Peter Thorp, John Hole, Thomas de Rode, William de Rode, Henry Smyth, John Smyth, Robert Ekkirsley, Gilbert Lacy, Henry Rysshworth, John Bentlay, Richard Rookes, John Northende, [Page 243]Richard Sonderlande and William Awmbeler, who hold severally of the said William twelve, messuages, 80a. land, 40a. meadow and 100a. pasture, in Hyperom, Shipden and Northowrom, by fealty and a rent of 39s. 10d. yearly; and the said William held the said land, &c. of the king, as of his lordship of Wakefeld, by fealty only.

A messuage, a carucate of land, 12a. meadow, 6a. wood and 12a. pasture, in Rastryk, worth 66s. 8d., held of the king, as of his lordship of Wakefeld, service unknown.

Two messuages and 106a. land, called ‘Knolles’ and ‘Lightrich,’ a close and 15a. land called ‘Heyes’ and 8a. land, called ‘le Intake,’ parcels of the aforesaid manor of Fekesby; 5s. 11d. rent, issuing from eight messuages and 20a. land in Lyndley; 3a. meadow, called ‘Leggardcrof’; a messuage in Bradford; and two messuages, 20a. land in Overcatton and Neddircatton; worth 5l.; held of the aforesaid William Calverley, John Webster, Nicholas and Robert Leventhorp, and Robert Chaloner, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 14. (147.)





391. 
STEPHEN HAMERTON, knight.




Writ wanting; inquisition 21 May, 16 Henry VII.




He died 27 June, 15 Henry VII, seised of the under-mentioned manors &c. and rents of tenants in Preston and Rothmyll, in fee. John Hamerton, esquire, aged 30 and more at the time of his father’s death, is his son and heir.




YORK. 

Manor, or lordship, of Hamerton, worth 15l., held of the king, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by service of fealty and 8s. rent at Michaelmas yearly and suit at the king’s court of Bowlande to be held yearly at Bowlande, in the said county, twice a year.

Manor, or lordship, of Knollesmere, or Knollysmer, worth 15l., held of the king, as of the said duchy, by service of fealty and 18d. rent, at Whitsun and Martlemas equally, and suit of court, as above.

Manor, or lordship, of Wyglesworth, worth 15l., held of the abbot of Fountains, by service of fealty and 22s. rent, at Whitsun and Martlemas equally.

Manor, or lordship, of Halyffelde, worth 14l., held of the prior of the Hospital of St. John of Jerusalem in England, by service of fealty, and 7s. rent yearly and suit to the prior’s court to be held at Halyffelde twice a year.

Manor, or lordship, of Langfelde, or Langffelde, worth 6l., held of the king, as of his manor of Wakefelde, parcel of the earldom of Waren’ being in the king’s hands, by service of fealty and 15d. rent yearly at Whitsun and Martlemas equally.

Third part of the manors, or lordships, of Rysshworth, or Ryshworth, Bothomley, Berkeslande, or Barkyslande and Slaynden, worth 6l. 10s., held of the king, as of the said manor of Wakfelde, by service of fealty and 12d. rent yearly at Whitsun and Martlemas equally.

A messuage and a bovate of land in Sladburn, or Slaydburn, worth 30s., held of the king, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by service of fealty and 2s. 3d. rent yearly at Whitsun and Martlemas equally.

A messuage and a half bovate of land in Newton in Bowlande, worth 20s., held of the king, as of the said duchy, by service of fealty and 18d. rent yearly at Whitsun and Martlemas equally.
[Page 244]

A toft and 2a. land in Setyll, worth 8s., held of Henry, earl of Northumberland, by knight service.

A toft and a messuage in Pheser in the parish of Clapham, worth 5s., held of the master of the hospital of St. Leonard of York, by service of fealty and 4d. rent yearly, at Whitsun and Martlemas equally for all service.

A bovate of land in Calton, worth 30s., held of the abbot of Dereham, co. Norfolk, by service of fealty and 7s. rent yearly, at Whitsun and Martlemas equally, for all service.

A messuage and toft in Coldconyshton, worth 2s., held of John Normanvile, knight, by service of fealty and 1/2d. rent yearly at Whitsun and Martlemas equally.

A messuage and a bovate of land in Wyglesworth, worth 8s., held of Henry, earl of Northumberland, by fealty and 12d. rent yearly at Whitsun and Martlemas equally.

One Henry Pudsey held of the said Stephen, the day he died, four bovates of land in Preston, by knight service and 2s. 8d. rent yearly at Whitsuntide and Martlemas equally; Robert Spencer, a bovate there, by knight service and 10d. rent at feasts aforesaid; John Wyglesworth, a toft and a bovate there, by knight service and 16d. rent at feasts aforesaid; Richard Chew, a bovate there, by knight service and the rent of a barbed arrow (catapulte barbate) at Michaelmas, also two tofts there, by knight-service and 2d. rent at feasts aforesaid; Richard Pudsey, a half-bovate there, by knight-service and 4d. rent at feasts aforesaid; Richard Clerke, a bovate there, by knight-service and 8d. rent at feasts aforesaid; William Hamerton, a toft and two bovates and a half-bovate there, by knight-service and 20d. rent at feasts aforesaid; John Wyglesworth, of Foxgyll, a half-bovate there, by knight-service and 6d. rent, at feasts aforesaid; Richard Nelson a half-bovate, a toft and a croft there, by knight-service and 10d. rent at feasts aforesaid, also a place of land there, by knight-service and 2s. 6d. rent, at feasts aforesaid; John Chatburn, a bovate there, by knight-service and 8d. rent, at feasts aforesaid; John Wiglesworth, heir of Christopher Wyglesworth, Richard Clerke, heir of John Clerke, John Wyglesworth, of Foxgill, heir of Nicholas Wyglesworth, held, &c. a messuage there, by knight-service and 4d. rent yearly at feasts aforesaid; John Elys, heir of Thomas Elys, three bovates and two tofts there, by knight-service and 2s. rent, at feasts aforesaid.

One Stephen Knott held of the said Stephen Hamerton 2a. land, with a close called ‘le high ryddyng’ in Rothmyll, by knight-service.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (2.)





392. 
JOHN FORTESCU, knight.




Writ wanting; inquisition Wednesday after St Margaret the Virgin, 16 Henry VII.




He was seised of the under-mentioned land &c. in Bishops Hatfeld, Little Barkhamsted, Hertyngfordbery, Bayford and Esynden, and, being so seised, enfeoffed Thomas Lovell, Richard Gyldeford, or Gildeford, Henry Heydon, William Boleyn and John Crokker, knights, John Warde, alderman of London, John Bradfeld, Simon Elryngton, Richard Fyssher, Benet Fortescu, John Kyrton and John Porter, clerk, thereof, who were, and still are seised thereof accordingly in fee.
[Page 245]

The said Thomas Lovell, and the others, as above, were seised of the other under-mentioned manors and lands, to the use of the said John and his heirs, and, they being so seised, he entered into the same and thereof enfeoffed John Paston, John Wymondham and Robert Clere, knights, Philip Calthorp and Robert Darcy, now knights, then esquires, James Hubbard, the king’s attorney, William Gurnay, esquire, Walter Aslak and Thomas Sotherton, who survive, and the late Simon Dam, now deceased, for the term of the life of Dame Elizabeth, who survives, late the wife of Sir William Calthorp, knight, and afterwards wife of the said Sir John Fortescu, named in the writ, by virtue of which the same John Paston, and the others, were, and still are seised thereof in their demesne as of free tenement.

He died 28 July last past. John Fortescu, esquire, aged 21 and more at his father’s death, is his son and heir.




HERTS. 

Three messuages, three tofts, two dovecotes, ten gardens, 100a. land, 100a. meadow, 200a. pasture, 100a. wood and 16s. rent, in the parish of Bishops Hatfeld (Hatfeld Episcopi), worth 14l. 12s. 4d., held of the bishop of Ely, by service of 16s. 1d., for all service.

Three messuages, two tofts, two gardens, 20a. land, 6a. meadow, 10a. pasture, 10a. wood and 5s. rent, in Little Barkhamstede, held of William Say, knight, service unknown; value not specified.

Six messuages, two tofts, eight gardens, 200a. pasture, 100a. land, 10a. meadow, 40a. wood and 10s. rent, in Hertyngfordbery, Bayford and Esynden, or Isenden, worth 100s., held of the king, as of the duchy of Lancaster, in socage.

Manor of Wyndrich, or Wynderich, worth 10 marks, held of the abbot of St Albans, service unknown.

Moiety of the manor of Northmymmys, with twenty-seven messuages, twelve tofts, three dovecotes, thirty gardens, 1,360a. land, 140a. meadow, 1,000a. pasture, 300a. wood and 12l. rent, in Northmymmys, worth 22l., held of the king, as of the honor of Clare, in socage.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (3.)





393. 
HUMPHREY FORSTER, esquire.




Writ wanting; inquisition 28 January, 16 Henry VII.




He was seised of the under-mentioned manor &c. in fee, and, being so seised, by charter, 25 July, 15 Henry VII, gave them to Thomas Wode, Chief Justice of the Common Bench, by the name of Thomas Wode, one of the justices of the Common Bench, Thomas Ingi[l]feld, Thomas Halys, Ralph Vyne, John Wylly and Richard Scopham, clerk, their heirs and assigns, who were and still are seised thereof accordingly in fee.

Death as in No. 378. George Forster, esquire, aged as in No. 378, is his son and heir.




OXFORD. 

Manor of Harpeden, worth 8 marks, with the advowson of the church of the same manor, held of the prince, as of the honor of Wallyngford, by service of rendering therefore to the prince fealty and 13s. 4 1/2d. rent yearly at Michaelmas only

A messuage, four virgates of land called ‘Graylez’ and a messuage, three virgates of land called ‘Anstyce’ in Rytherfeld Gray; also sixteen messuages, four tofts, a hundred virgates of land, 20a. meadow, 50a. pasture, 40a. wood and 33s. 4d. rent, in the towns and parishes of [Page 246]Harpeden, Henley on Thames, Highmere, Rytherfeld Gray and Rytherfeld, Peperd, worth 40s., held of the said prince, by fealty and 5s. rent at the feast aforesaid, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (4.)





394. 
HUMPHREY FORSTER.




Writ 18 November, inquisition 20 January, 16 Henry VII.




Findings as in No. 393. For ‘Ingifeld,’ read ‘Ingilfeld,’ and for ‘Scopham,’ ‘Scuppham.’




BERKS. 

Manor of Edyston, otherwise called Edwiston, within the parish of Aysshebure, and 40a. land, 20a. pasture, 8a. meadow and 3a. wood, in Ediston and Aysshebure, worth 100s., held of the abbot of Glastonbury, by fealty and the rent of a red rose at Midsummer yearly, for all service.

Twelve acres of meadow in Remanham, worth 10s., held of the king, as of the manor of Remanham, by fealty and 3s. rent, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (5.)





395. 
HUMPHREY FORSTER.




Writ 18 November, inquisition 16 January, 16 Henry VII.




He died seised of the under-mentioned land &c. in fee.

Death and heir as in No. 378.




SOMERSET. 

TWO messuages, a toft, 70a. land, 30a. pasture, 10a. meadow, 10a. wood and 50a. furze and heath, called ‘Legh,’ within the hundred of Mulverton, worth 33s. 4d., held of Hugh Loterell, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (6.) E. Series II. File 897(a). (7.)





396. 
GEORGE PIKENHAM, esquire.




Writ 12 March, inquisition 8 May, 16 Henry VII.




Long before the death of the said George, one John Holond, ‘yoman,’ was seised of the under-mentioned manor of Herstedhall, formerly of John Pykenham, esquire, and, being so seised, by charter, dated at Burdebroke, 2 December, 18 Edward IV, demised and enfeoffed it to the said George, and Elizabeth, his wife, to hold to them and George’s heirs; they were seised thereof accordingly, George in fee and Elizabeth in her demesne as of free tenement; and afterwards he died, and she survived him and was solely seised thereof in demesne as aforesaid, and died.

Long before his death one Thomas Rygby, Richard Bernet and Thomas Roche, ‘gentilmen,’ were seised of the under-mentioned manor of Blowmesters, and rent from Little Canfeld, in fee, and, being so seised, by charter dated at Great Eiston, 4 November, 18 Edward IV, demised them to him and the said Elizabeth, to hold to them and his heirs male of her body begotten, with remainder in default to his right heirs.

Long before his death one William Hasilden, esquire, John Knesworth, William Blakthorn, clerk, and Richard Knesworth, were seised of the under-mentioned moiety of the manor of Otes, and, being so seised, by charter dated [Page 247]at High Laver, on the feast of St. Luke, the Evangelist, 24 Henry VI, demised it to John Pikenham, and Margery, his wife, and the heirs of their bodies begotten, with remainder in default of such issue, to the heirs and assigns of the said John; they were seised thereof accordingly in their demesne as of fee tail, and, being so seised, had issue between them the said George and one Thomas Pykenham; and afterwards the said John died and Margery survived him and was and still is solely seised thereof in her demesne as of fee tail by virtue of the gift, with remainder thereof expectant after John’s death to the said George as his son and heir.

By charter dated the last day of July, 18 Edward IV, the said George granted to Thomas Sporne and Margery, his wife, late the wife of the said John Pykenham, a pension of 6 marks issuing from the manor of Blowmesters aforesaid, at Easter and Michaelmas equally, for the term of their lives in survivorship; they were seised of the said pension accordingly in their demesne as of free tenement, and afterwards the said Thomas died, and she survived him and was and still is solely seised thereof as aforesaid.

He died 11 April, 15 Henry VII, without issue. Margaret Pykenham, aged 6 and more, and Elizabeth Pykenham, aged 5 and more, are his cousins and heirs viz. daughters and heirs of Thomas Pykenham his brother and heir.




ESSEX. 

Manor of Hersted Hall, or Herstedehall, in Burdebroke, with land &c. in the towns of Fynchynfeld and Bumstede, worth 12 marks, held of the king, as of the honor of Clare, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Blowmesters in Great Eiston (Eiston Magna), otherwise called ‘Eiston at Mounte,’ worth 4 marks, held of William, lord de Sturton, as of his manor of Great Eiston aforesaid, service unknown.

A yearly rent of 10 marks issuing from the manor of Little Canfeld (Canfeld Parva).

Moiety of the manor of Otes in the town of High (Alta) Laver, worth 20 marks, held of John, earl of Oxford, as of the manor of Boram Hall, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (7.)





397. 
JOHN, CARDINAL ARCHBISHOP of CANTERBURY.




Writ 29 September, 16 Henry VII; inquisition 20 October, 17 Henry VIl.




John Morton, late cardinal archbishop of Canterbury, was seised of the under-mentioned manors of Mylbourne &c. and land in Develyssh, in fee, and being so seised, by divers deeds; by the name of John Morton, bishop of Ely, enfeoffed Thomas Morton, gentleman, Robert Morton, clerk, late keeper of the king’s rolls, Thomas Morton, clerk, Richard Morton and Robert Morton, gentlemen, thereof, to the use of himself, his heirs and assigns, and the performance of his last will; they were seised thereof accordingly in fee, and the survivor of them, Thomas Morton, gentleman, was so seised at the time of the inquisition to the use aforesaid.

Long before the day of this inquisition the said John, late cardinal, Thomas Morton, clerk, and Robert Turbervyle, esquire, were seised of the under-mentioned land in Kyngeston Wynterborn in fee, and, being so seised, by charter, enfeoffed John Feneux, knight, Chief Justice of the King’s Bench, Henry Edyall, clerk, John Coker, esquire, and John Roper, thereof, by the[Page 248] name of all lands and tenements there, for the performance of the said cardinal’s last will; they were and still are seised thereof accordingly.

The said late cardinal, and Thomas Madys, John Camberton, John Ryce, clerks, and John Roper, gentleman, were jointly seised of the under-mentioned moiety of land &c. in Gillyngham &c. in fee, to the use of the said late cardinal, late belonging to William Vynyng and John Skott, and, being so seised, by charter indented, by the name of a moiety of all the lands and tenements which lately were William Vynyng’s and John Skott’s, in Mere, co. Wilts, and Gyllyngham, &c. co. Dorset, demised them to Edith, late the wife of William Cryspyn, who survives, to hold to her and the heirs of her body issuing, with reversion thereof expectant to themselves and their heirs, to the use of the said cardinal, his heirs and assigns.

One Henry Edyall, clerk, and William Meryng, ‘salter,’ were seised of the under-mentioned land called ‘Horsyngton’ in fee, to the use of the said late cardinal, his heirs and assigns, on the day of his decease, and for the performance of his last will.

By his last will the said cardinal directed that John Morton, son of Richard Morton his brother, should have all and singular the premises, to him and the heirs male of his body issuing, with divers remainders over.

He died 15 September last. Thomas Morton, ‘gentylman,’ above-named, aged 30 and more, is his cousin and heir, viz. son of William Morton, his brother.




DORSET. 

Manor of Mylbourne Deverell, otherwise called Mylbourne Cary, and a water-mill in the parish of Mylbourne St. Andrew; and the manor of Mylbourne Churcheston; also twelve messuages, 300a. land, 20a. meadow, 300a. pasture, 20a. wood, 10a. heather, 4l. rent and the rent of 1lb. pepper, in Mylbourne St. Andrew, Mylbourne Symondeston, Mylbourne Churcheston and Develych; and pasture for six oxen and four heifers in the manor of Develyssh; the aforesaid manors of Mylborn St. Andrew, Mylborn Symondeston and Mylborn Churcheston, and all the aforesaid lands &c. in Mylbourne St. Andrew, Mylbourn Symondeston and Mylbourn Churcheston, are held of William, abbot of Myddylton, by fealty, but by what other services the jurors know not; and they are worth 20l.; the aforesaid messuages &c. in Develych, are held of Nicholas Latymer, knight, by service of doing suit to the court of his manor of Develych twice a year, for all service, and they are worth 10s.

Three hundred acres of land, 8a. meadow and 200a. pasture, in Kyngeston Wynterborn, worth 5l., held of the king in chief, service unknown.

A moiety of five messuages, 69a. land, 226a. pasture, 16 1/2a. meadow and 53a. wood in Gillyngham, Stourewake, Hampreston, Wodgarsworth, Wymbourne Mynster and Kyngeston Lacy; also twenty acres of land and 169a. pasture, called ‘Horsyngton,’ in the parish of Gyllyngham and in Mylton upon Stoure next Gyllyngham; whereof the land, &c. in Gyllyngham and Mylton upon Stoure are held of Elizabeth, queen of England, in socage, according to the custom of her manor of Gyllyngham, which is ancient demesne of the queen of England, but by what rent or other services the jurors know not, and are worth 20s. yearly; the said moiety of land &c. in Stourewake and Wodgarsworth is held of the abbot of Milton, service unknown, and is worth 40s.; the said land &c. in Wymbourne Mynster and Kyngeston Lacy are held of the duchy of [Page 249]Lancaster by 6d. rent yearly to be paid to the manor of Kyngeston Lacy for all service, and are worth 12s. yearly; and the land &c. in Hampreston are held of Margaret Savage, widow, as of her manor of Hampreston, service unknown, and are worth 11s. yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (8.) E. Series II. File 897(b). (4.)





398. 
WILLIAM VYNYNG.




Writ 7 November, 16 Henry VII; inquisition 13 October, 17 Henry VII.




William Vynyng, esquire, named in the writ, died seised of the under-mentioned land &c. in fee, after whose death they descended to Edith Crespyn and Agnes Grene, viz. to Edith as his sister and one of his heirs and to Agnes as his cousin and the other of his heirs, viz. daughter of Agnes his sister; the said Edith and Agnes entered thereon accordingly and were seised thereof in fee; and, being so seised, the said Edith, in her widowhood, by her charter gave and granted her purparty thereof to John, late archbishop of Canterbury, chancellor of England, Thomas Madys, John Camberton and John Ryce, clerks, and John Roper, gentleman, by the name of a moiety of all those lands and tenements, late William Vynyng’s, in Gyllyngham &c. to hold to them, their heirs and assigns for ever; by virtue of which gift the said archbishop and his co-feoffees were seised thereof in fee, and, being so seised, by charter demised a moiety of all the lands and tenements late William Vynyng’s within the lordship and parish of Gyllyngham, co. Dorset, and in Mere, co. Wyltes, to the said Edith, to hold to her and the heirs of her body issuing, with reversion thereof to the said archbishop, and the others, and their heirs, to the use of the said archbishop and his heirs expectant; by virtue of which demise she was and still is seised thereof in fee tail.

He died 2 November, 8 Henry VII. The said Edith and Agnes, aged 60 and more, and 30 and more, are his next heirs in form aforesaid.




DORSET. 

Five messuages, 69a. land, 226a. pasture, 16 1/2a. meadow and 50a. wood, in Gyllyngham, Storewake, Hampreston, Woodgarsworth, Petersham in the parish of Wymborn Mynster and Kyngeston Lacy, whereof the messuages, &c. in Gyllyngham, worth 5l., are held of Elizabeth, queen of England, in socage, according to the custom of the manor of Gyllyngham, which is ancient demesne of the queen of England, by what rent, or services, the jurors know not; those in Storewake and Woodgarsworth, worth 40s., of the abbot of Mylton, service unknown; those in Petirsham in the parish of Wymburn Mynster and Kyngeston Lacy, worth 12s., of the king, as of the duchy of York, by fealty and 6d. rent yearly to the manor of Kyngeston Lacy, for all service; and those in Hampreston, worth 10s., held of Margaret Savage, widow, as of the manor of Hampreston, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (9.) E. Series II. File 897(b). (3.)





399. 
THOMAS MALLET.




Writ 3 October, inquisition 2 November, 17 Henry VII.




Thomas Malet, named in the writ, was seised in fee the day he died of the under-mentioned land in Enmer.
[Page 250]

William Martyn, John Coker and James Frampton, esquires, John Braght and John Braunche, rector of the church of Enmer, long before his decease were seised of the under-mentioned manor and advowson of Enmer, in fee, and, being so seised, by charter enfeoffed him and Isabel, his wife, who survives, thereof, to hold to them and his heirs, by virtue of which feoffment he was seised thereof in fee and she in her demesne as of free tenement.

By charter, 19 January, 13 Henry VII, he enfeoffed Baldwin Malet, John Branche, rector of the church of Enmer, Simon Hemmyng and John Legge, the elder, of the other under-mentioned manors, &c. to the use of himself and his heirs, and they were and still are seised thereof accordingly to the use aforesaid. By his last will he directed that immediately after his decease the said Isabel, his wife, should have the manor of Sutton Malet, for so long as she remained a widow and that the said Baldwin Malet, his younger son, should have the moiety of the manor of Westcantokyshed with the advowson, to him and the heirs male of his body begotten; and that the said feoffees should stand enfeoffed of such manors, &c. for the performance of his last will, inter alia, in form aforesaid.

He died 9 July last. William Malet, aged 30 and more, is his son and heir.




SOMERSET. 

Three messuages, three gardens, 10a. land, 2a. meadow, 7a. pasture and 1a. wood, in Enmer, worth 40s., held of Eleanor Strangwyssh, service unknown.

Manor and advowson of Enmer, worth 10l., held of Eleanor Stranguyssh, as of the manor of Cumpton Domedene, service unknown.

Manors of Corypole and Charlynche, worth 10l., with the advowson of the church of Charlynche, and the manor of Sutton Malet, worth 8l., held of the said Eleanor Strangwysshe, service unknown.

Manor of Lydyard Malet alias Lydyard Punchardon, worth 9l., held of the bishop of Winchester, service unknown.

A moiety of the manor of Westcantokyshed, with the alternate presentation of the church of the same, worth 5l., held of Hugh Loterell, knight, service unknown.

A burgage in the borough of Stowy, which is a free borough, worth 5s. beyond outgoings, held in free burgage as of the manor of Stowy being in the king’s hands by the death of James late lord Audeley.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (10.) E. Series II. File 897(b). (10.)





400. 
JOAN late the wife of WILLIAM KNYVET, knight.




Writ 14 February, inquisition 10 July, 16 Henry VII.




The said William and Joan, the day she died, held jointly to them and the heirs of her body by the king’s gift, by letters patent, 9 March, 5 Henry VII, the under-mentioned manors and hundreds, with knight’s fees, advowsons, &c. thereto belonging, the manor and hundred of Westcoker to remain in default of such heirs of her body after his and her decease to the right heirs of the body of Elizabeth, wife of Hugh Conwey, knight, and the heirs of the body of such heirs, and in default of such heirs to remain to Edward, earl of Devon, and the heirs male of his body issuing, to hold of the king and his heirs by the rents and services therefore formerly due and accustomed; and in default of such heirs of her body the manor and hundred of Crokehorne to remain [Page 251]after his and her decease to the said earl and the heirs male of his body issuing, to hold of the king, &c. as above.

She died Friday after the Purification last. Charles Clyfford, aged 20 and more, is her son and heir.




SOMERSET. 

Manor and hundred of Crokehorne, worth 40l., held of the king in chief, by service of 1/4 of a knight’s fee.

Manor and hundred of Westcoker, worth 100s., held of the king in chief, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 15. (11.) E. Series II. File 897(a). (5.)


















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















