











Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry III, File 37 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem










Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry III, File 37










Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Volume 1, Henry III. 


Originally published by His Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1904.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry III, File 37', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Volume 1, Henry III, ed.  J E E S Sharp (London,  1904), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/vol1/pp225-231 [accessed 3 July 2026].





'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry III, File 37', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Volume 1, Henry III. Edited by   J E E S Sharp (London,  1904), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/vol1/pp225-231.





"Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry III, File 37". Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Volume 1, Henry III. Ed.  J E E S Sharp (London, 1904), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/vol1/pp225-231.














Keyword Highlight

Search








Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry III, File 37





708.


Warin de Bassingburn.




Writ of plenius certiorari, 13 May. Inq. Sunday the Octave of St. Michael, 53 Hen. III.



[Cambridge.]

Bassingburn. 1 hide land (extent given) was held of William de Cheney (deceased, who held of the king in chief), of the honour of Boulogne; the site of the castle and 30l. land were held of the honour of Richmond by service of a ¼ knight's fee; and a water mill and 1a. land were held of the fee of Geoffrey le Rus by service of 6s. yearly.
Sir John de Britannia holds the said hide in his hands, for what reason is unknown unless that he believed it to be of his fee; and he holds the castle and 30l. land by reason of the wardship of the son and heir of said Warin.
Gilbert de Cheleseye, guardian of the land and heir of Geoffrey le Rus, holds the said mill and acre of land.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (1.)



709.


Petronilla de la Wodehuse.




Writ of plenius certiorari, 13 Jan. on the petition of Alan de Beltoft. Inq. Ash Wednesday, 53 Hen. III.



[Nottingham.]

(La Wodehuse.) A messuage, 96a. land and a moiety of the site of a mill, held of the king in chief by socage, rendering 32s. yearly.
Beginham. A messuage, 38a. land, 32a. wood, and 8 bovates held by free tenants, held of the archbishop of York, rendering 8s. yearly and suit (of court).
Redene. 18a. land held of the fee of Sir Adam de Everingham, by 4d. yearly and suit of court.
Cashale. ¼ of a toft, 10a. land and ½a. wood held of the fee of the said archbishop rendering 4d. yearly.
Tilne. 4 bovates land held of the fee of the said archbishop rendering 2s. yearly and suit (of court).
All these lands are partible between the heirs, but were not parted before; but once there were four brothers, and Alan the elder put himself in (possession of) the whole land; and his three brothers Godfrey, Roger and Laurence seeking their share, he voluntarily gave the whole of Cashalle to Godfrey, 3 bovates to Roger ..., and land in Clarebor and Tilne to Laurence, with which they were content.
Endorsed:—He renounces this inquisition and says he will sue for the share falling to him by hereditary right before the justices of eyre in co. Derby.
(See No. 671.)




C. Hen. III. File 37. (2.)

[Page 226]


710.


Robert de Gurnay.




Writ, 22 April, 53 Hen. III.
Anselm (Ancellus) his son, is his heir and of full age.



Wilts.

Extent, Sunday after St. Augustine, 53 Hen. III.
Sernekote manor and advowson (extent given) held of the earl of Gloucester in chief for ½ knight's fee.



Somerset.

Extent, Sunday after St. Augustine, 53 Hen. III.
Harpetre manor (extent given) held of the king in chief by service of ½ knight's fee.
Barewe and Hyngelescombe manors (extents given) held, with other foreign fees pertaining thereto in cos. Somerset, Dorset and Wilts, of the earl of Gloucester in chief by service of 22½ knights' fees.



Gloucester.

Extent, Sunday before St. Barnabas, 53 Hen. III. (defective).
Beverstane manor, including the site of the court outside the castle, with the advowson, and Weston and Halberton manors (extents given), held of the king in chief by service of 1 knight's fee.
Oure and Puriton manors (extents given) held of the earl of Warwyk in chief by service of ½ knight's fee, and 1 sparrowhawk or 2s. for the manor of Puriton, which manor was delivered to the men of the town by Maurice de Gaunt, uncle of the said Robert, at fee farm for 10l., with all the issues excepting fisheries.
Redwyk manor (extent given) held of the bishop of Worcester at fee farm for 10l. yearly.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (3.)



711.


Richard de Playz.




Writ, 8 July, 53 Hen. III.
Ralph his son, age variously stated as 2½ and 3 and more, is his heir.



Norfolk.

Extent, Friday the eve of St. Margaret, 53 Hen. III.
Chnapetun manor with the advowson (extent given), including a pasture called Brodigg', held of the earl of Warenne in chief, service unspecified.
Sidestrond, ⅓ knight's fee pertaining to Chnapetun held by Adam de Punigges.



[Essex.]

Extent, The eve of St. John the Baptist, 53 Hen. III.
Akle manor with the advowson of Great Akle (extent given), held of the king in chief by knight's fee.



[Essex.]

Extent, Tuesday the morrow of St. John the Baptist, 53 Hen. III.
Benefeld manor (extent given), including lands in the park of Alsieshay, and in Stanstede, pasture in the little castle (castello) of Ulgrave, and 80a. of cut wood called 'taillyz,' held of the king in chief through the part falling to him of the inheritance of Richard de Munfichet, who held of the king in chief by barony. 9½ and ⅓ knights' fees pertain to the part which the said Richard (de Playz) held of the said inheritance.



Norfolk.

Extent, Wednesday before St. Margaret, 53 Hen. III. (defaced.)
Weting manor with the advowson (extent given), including the pastures of Branduneholm, Scyrnour(?), and Kockeshowedele, rents in Santun, Krokestun, and Schipetham, and a fishery in the mere of Oteringyte (?), tenure unspecified or illegible.
Krokestorn (?), the advowson of the church.
Bromhil Priory, the advowson.
[Page 227]Ratlesdene, 1 knight's fee held by Sir Roger de Ratlesdene of the lord of Wetingge.
Bernham, ¼ knight's fee held of the same.
Nortwold, 1/8 knight's fee.
Melwold, ¼ knight's fee.
Runhale, ½ knight's fee.



Sussex.

Inq. Wednesday the eve of St. Peter ad Vincula, 53 Henry III.
Worthe. 60a. arable, and 62s. 11d. rent, &c.
Warplesburn. A messuage 173a. arable, 12a. meadow, 100a. wood with pasture, 4l. 15s. ¼d. rent of assize, 57s. 3¼d. customary works, a water mill, &c.
Waningore. 184a. arable in demesne, 23s. 2d. rent of assize, 27a. and 3r. meadow, 30a. wood with pasture, 66a. pasture, sheep pasture on the hills, pleas of court, &c.
Iford. A messuage, 174a. arable, 55a. meadow, pasture, 7l. 5s. 4d. rent of assize, with works at Blachington, Wittedene and Kingeston, &c.
Lewes. 106s. 6d. rent of assize.
All held of the earl of Warrenne, service unknown except that they owe suit at Sussex county (court), and at the earl's court at Lewes.
Chaggeleye. The advowson of the church.
Worthe. The advowson of the church.
Waningore. 12s. are due to a chaplain celebrating in the chapel there for the ancestors of the said Richard.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (4.)



712.


William le Taverner alias Tabernar', lately drowned.




Writ de escaeta, 28 May. Inq. Saturday after St. Barnabas, 53 Hen. III.



Wilts.

Marleberg. Juliana daughter of Walter de Bristoll was in the wardship of Master Roger de la Grene, and after her affiance to the said William she delivered by deed all the tenements which came to her from her father to Thomas de la Grene by the compulsion of her friends, but he had no seisin therein, and gave all his right therein to the said William in free marriage with the said Juliana at the church door; wherefore the king cannot have any escheat.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (5.)



713.


Master Thomas de Sancto Edmundo.




Writ de escaeta, 10 April. Inq. Monday before St. George, 53 Hen. III.



Cambridge.

Cambridge. The houses late of the said Thomas are not the king's escheat through his death, and the king cannot give them away without injury to Luke, son of Clarice de Ruschebrok; for one Walter de Sancto Edmundo gave them to the said Thomas and the heirs of his body, with remainder to the said Luke his brother and the heirs of his body, and if he should die without such heirs, during the lifetime of Christiana and Cecily his sisters, then to them and their heirs, whereof final concord was made at Westminster on the morrow of All Souls, 41 Hen. III. Sir Ralph Pirot holds the said houses, and ejected the said Luke by force.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (6.)

[Page 228]


714.


Robert Bussel.




Writ to the escheator in co. Devon to execute a former mandate without delay, 8 March. Inq. Friday in Easter week, 53 Hen. III.
Theobald his son, aged 5 at the feast of the Nativity of St. John the Baptist next, is his heir.



Devon.

Tenggewyke alias Teyngwyk manor, held of the king in chief with a moiety of the foreign hundred, by service of 1 pair of gilt spurs yearly at the king's exchequer.
The treasurer and barons of the exchequer to the king. Having inspected at the king's command his charter to Theobald de Engleychevill of the manor of Teyngwyk, the said Theobald's charter to Robert Bussel, the king's confirmation thereof, and the escheator's inquisition, they find that the said Robert held the manor of the king by service of 1 pair of gilt spurs yearly for all service. They do not find from the rolls that land so held is socage, but land held by 1 pair of gilt spurs or 6d. or more, is socage; it is for the King and council to judge whether land held by 1 pair of gilt spurs for all service is socage or serjeanty.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (7.)



715.


William Trapun alias Trapoun.




Writ de escaeta to the warden and bailiffs of the city of London, 13 April. Inq. Wednesday before St. George the Martyr, 53 Hen. III.



London.

The houses late of the said William in St. Sepulchre's parish outside the gate of Neugate are the King's escheat because the said William died without heir, and made no mention of them in his will.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (8.)



716.


John de Esselyngton.




Writ of plenius certiorari to John de Reygate and Wychard de Charrum alias Gwychard de Charron, 18 May, on the complaint of Alexander, son of the said John, that the escheator had ejected him from the manor of Frammelington. Inq. Friday after the Translation of St. Martin, 53 Hen. III.



[Northumberland.]

Framelington manor (extent given), held of Sir Roger Bertrem by service of ¼ knight's fee, was given by the said John, who was of sane mind and could give the same, 8 days and more before his death, to his son Alexander; who had peaceful seisin of the manor for 5 weeks, until the king's sub-escheator ejected him and took the manor with the other lands of the said John into the king's hands. The king gave all the said lands to Sir William de Sancto Ermino until the lawful age of the heir of the said John, and he gave his right to Master Richard de Clyfford, and he to Thomas de Clyvedon, and he to John son of Alan de Esselington; and because the the King had been deceived about the alienation of the said manor, the escheator before Whitsunday last, caused the manor to be seized into the king's hands, upon which came John son of Alan and Robert Cort of Wychingham, and ejected the king. The king can restore the manor to the said Alexander without injury to the heir of the said John or anyone else.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (9.)

[Page 229]


717.


Isabel, wife of Roger son and heir of Roger De Clifford, and eldest daughter and one of the heirs of Robert De Veteri Ponte.




Return from Robert Wallerond alias Waleraund to the king, 15 June, reciting writ of certiorari de etate, dated 28 April, 53 Hen. III.



[Hereford.]

Having seen the said Isabel at Erdesleye and examined her age he judged that she was of full age.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (10.)



718.


Matthias de Bezill alias de Besilles.




Writ, 29 Nov. 53 Hen. III. Inq. (undated.)
John de Besilles, his eldest son, aged 23 at the feast of St. Peter in Cathedra next, is his heir.



Devon.

Alfintune manor in the hundred of Stanburges, held of the king in chief as of fee, service unknown, but the manor paid 36s. yearly to the king's manor of Dupeford.




Writ, 12 Dec. Inq. Saturday after St. Lucy, 53 Hen. III.



Wilts.

Woedhull manor (extent given with names of tenants), held of the king in chief by rendering 4 barbed arrows yearly at the king's exchequer. Alice sometime the wife of William de Englechevile holds ⅓ of the manor in dower.




Memorandum. He held the manors of Wdebiri and Lewenestune in the hundred of Buddeleye in wardship of the gift of the king until the full age of the heir of Sir Geoffrey de Alba Mara.




Extracts from Fine Rolls dated 25 Dec. 53 Hen. III., and 6 Feb. 20 Edw. I. Concerning the homage of the said John de Bezilles and livery of the said lands, &c., to him; and the wardship of his heir.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (11.)



719.


Henry de Hastinges.




Writ (missing). Extent, Tuesday after Palm Sunday, 53 Hen. III.
John his son, aged 6 on the day of St. John ante Portam Latinam, 52 Hen. III., is his heir.



[Suffolk and Norfolk.]

Litgate manor with the advowson (extent given), held of the abbot of St. Edmund in chief by service of 1 knight.
Knights' fees held of the manor:—
Wrede, 1 fee held by Sir William de Valenc'.
Gaysle, ½ fee held by Alexander de la Cressunere; and ½ fee by Alexander de Beyvellers?
Poslingword, 1 fee held by William de Camera.
Cavenedis, 1 fee held by Sir Miles de Hastinges.
Koclyherling (?), ½ fee held by Thomas de Hackeford.
Tibeam, 1 fee held by Richard Liming' (?).
Gressing, 1 fee held by Sir Nicholas de Hasting'.
Purle, 1 fee held by Sir Hugh de Herdeberye.
Little Udeleye and Little Horningesherd, ½ fee held by Richard de Hauvile.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (12.)

[Page 230]


720.


Hugh de Morwyk.




Writ, 2 March. Inq. Friday the morrow of St. Mark, 53 Hen. III.
He had 3 daughters, one married to Roger de Lomel' and aged 21, another married to John de Bulemer and aged 15 at the feast of St. Hilary last, and the third married to John de Roseles and aged 11 at Easter last.



Northumberland.

West Chyvington. 20l. land, held (of the King ?) by knight's service, rendering 1 mark to the castle of Bamburg, and doing suit at the county (courts).
Morewyk and a moiety of Est Chyvington, viz. 30l. land, held of Sir John de Vescy by knight's service.
Langhurst and Pendemore. 20l. land held of Sir Robert Bertram of Bothal in free marriage.
Reveley. 6l. land held of Geoffrey de Lucy doing foreign service. (See No. 759.)




C. Hen. III. File 37. (13.)



721.


John de Chyreburi.




Writ (missing.) Inq. Thursday the vigil of St. Nicholas, 54 Hen. III.
Wygan his son is his heir, and of full age.



Wilts.

Sende. 15l. land, held of the king for ¼ knight's fee, and a grove for 12d. in serjeanty.
Winterburn. 7l. 12s. 1d. land, held of the earl of Hereford for 1 knight's fee and the advowson of the church.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (14.)



722.


Nigel Beket alias Becke of Southampton.




Writ, 21 Oct., 54 Hen. III. Inq. (undated.)
Valentine his son, aged 18, is his heir.



[Southampton.]

Wodecote and Bromdene. 1 carucate land held of the king in chief by service of being keeper of the gaol of Winchester, at his own cost and peril.
Kilham. ½ carucate land held of Geoffrey de Chaucumbe by service of 20s. and 1lb. pepper.
Winchester. ½ carucate outside Winchester, held of the prior of St. Swithin's by service of 32s. yearly.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (15.)



723.


William de la Laund alias de la Londe.




Writ, 13 Dec. 54 Hen. III. Inq. (undated.)
He had one son, aged nine, but his name is unknown to the jury, because he was born in co. Derby.



[Essex.]

Maldon. Land &c. (unspecified) held of the king in chief by service of ¼ knight's fee.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (16.)

[Page 231]


724.


Thomas de Brampton.




Writ, 27 June. Inq. Wednesday before the Gule of Autumn (sic), 54 Hen. III.
Beatrice, his sister, aged 40, wife of Miles Den of Brampton, is his heir.



Norfolk.

Boketon. 6 marks rent held of the king in chief, service unknown, receivable from a tenement held by Simon son of Richard of the king.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (17.)



725.


Alan de Romeny.




Writ, 15 Feb. Inq. Thursday before St. Gregory, 54 Hen. III.
Robert, his son, is his heir and of full age.



Northampton.

Horepol township, viz.—6 virgates land, held of the king in chief by service of 1/6 knight's fee (per servicium sex part' militar').




C. Hen. III. File 37. (18.)



726.


Thomas Tyrel.




Writ, 14 Feb. Inq. The eve of St. Matthias, 54 Hen. III.
Ralph Tyrel, age 21 at Michaelmas last, is his heir.



Bedford.

Wylden manor (extent given), held of the king in chief, service unspecified.
The said Thomas sold 46s. rent and many other lands.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (19.)



727.


Henry de Cramavill.




Writ, 30 Jan., 54 Hen. III.
Henry, his son, aged 22 and more, is his heir.



Kent.

Inq. The morrow of St. Blaise, 54 Hen. III.
Gravesende manor with the advowson.
Solton manor.
Both held of the king in chief rendering 4½ marks yearly for the guard of Dover castle.



[Essex.]

Inq. (undated.)
Reynham manor (extent given), held of the king in chief, rendering yearly for that and 3 other manors 60s. for the guard of Dover castle, for all services.




C. Hen. III. File 37. (20.)
















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















