











Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1101-1150 | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII










Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1101-1150










Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII. 


Originally published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, 1898.






This free content was digitised using optical character recognition. All rights reserved. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




Maskelyne,  H. C. Maxwell Lyte, 'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1101-1150', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII (London,  1898), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/series2-vol1/pp469-504 [accessed 3 July 2026].





Maskelyne,  H. C. Maxwell Lyte, 'Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1101-1150', in Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII(London,  1898), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/series2-vol1/pp469-504.





Maskelyne,  H. C. Maxwell Lyte. "Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1101-1150". Calendar of Inquisitions Post Mortem: Series 2, Volume 1, Henry VII. (London, 1898), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/inquis-post-mortem/series2-vol1/pp469-504.














Keyword Highlight

Search








Inquisitions Post Mortem, Henry VII, Entries 1101-1150






1101


WILLIAM FITZWILLIAM, knt.




Com. 27 Nov., inq. 23 Dec., 10 Hen. VII.




He died seised of a third part of the under-mentioned manor in fee, with the exception of lands and tenements therein to the value of ten marks yearly.

He was also seised as of fee and right of the reversion, expectant on the death of his mother, Elizabeth, of the lands excepted as above, and of the other two-thirds of the said manor, and being so seised he gave the said reversion to John Conyers, knt., and others (as in No. 1100), to the use of himself and his heirs, and the said Elizabeth attorned to them. Subsequently, on her death, the said feoffees became seised of the said two parts and of the said excepted lands in fee to the said use. The said John Conyers, Richard Fitzwilliam, and Richard Wentworth, knts., died, and the said Thomas Wortley released his rght in the premises to Thomas Fitzwilliam, knt., formerly esq., and the other surviving feoffees, who, at the request of the said William gave lands within the said two [Page 470]parts of the said manor to the value of 20 marks a year to the said Thomas Wortley and Elizabeth his wife, late the wife of John Fitzwilliam, esq., to hold for the life of the said Elizabeth.

He died 3 July, 9 Hen. VII. William Fitzwilliam is his heir (as in No. 1100).




NOTTS. 

Manor of Plumptre, worth 20l., held of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (136)





1102


EDWARD PONYNGES, clk.




Writ of Mandamus 12 July, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 26 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




He was seised together with William Kene, esq., Thomas Ballard, esq., and Nicholas Sybyll, gent., of the under-mentioned manors and advowsons, in fee, and being so seised they demisedthem to Robert Ponynges, esq., and Elizabeth his wife, for the term of their lives in survivorship. She survived her said husband and re-married with George Broun, knt.; and the said Edward, having survived the said William Kene, Thomas Ballard, and Nicholas Sybyll, was seised of the reversion of the said manors, expectant on her death. She died 1 Feb., 3 Hen. VII.

He died 20 Aug., 20 Edw. IV. Edward Ponynges, knt., aged 34 and more is his cousin and heir, viz. son of the said Robert, his elder brother. The said Elizabeth took the issues and profits of the premises from the time of his death to her own, and Edward Ponynges, knt., has taken them from that time to the present.




KENT. 

Manor, worth 10l., and the advowson of Rokesley, held of the King, as of Dover castle, by fealty and a rent of 3s. 4d. to the castleguard at the end of every 24 weeks, for all service.

Manor, worth 10 marks, and the advowson of North Cray, of no yearly value, held of John Stonour, as of the manor of Horton Kyrkeby, by fealty and suit of court once a year, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (137). E. Series II. File 463 (1.)





1103


THOMAS FOSTER.




Writ wanting; inq. 20 Jan., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 4 March, 9 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned moiety of a manor, messuages, and lands in fee tail. William Foster, aged 7 and more, is his son and heir.




LEIC. 

Six messuages and twenty-four virgates of land in Oreton on the Hill, held of the Abbot of Merevall, by homage and fealty, for all service.

A moiety of the manor of Shakerston, held of Thomas Grey, knt., by fealty, for all service.

Three messuages and six virgates of land in Assheby de la Zouch, held of Edward Hastynges, knt., Lord Hastynges, service unknown.

The said moiety of the manor of Shakerston, together with the said messuages and lands, is worth 10l. clear yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (138.) E. Series II. File 1115, Part I. (2.)



[Page 471]


1104


RICHARD SHELDON.




Writ 12 Aug., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 12 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




John Astwyke, gent., enfeoffed John Mordaunt, Richard Godfrey, John Clerk, and John Cotton of the under-mentioned manor of Astwyke, to the use of the said Richard Sheldon, and of his last will.

John Botyler, esq., enfeoffed the said Richard Godfrey, Thomas Eston, and Richard Sheldon the younger, together with George Beton, who is now deceased, of the under-mentioned manor of Hyll and lands in Old Wardon, to the like use.

John Sturgeon, esq., enfeoffed the said Richard Godfrey, John Clerk, and Robert Watno of the under-mentioned messuages, &c., in Bykeliswade, to the like use.

He died 12 Aug. last. Richard Sheldon, aged 24 and more, is his son and heir.




BEDF. 

Manor of Astwyke, worth 10l., held of the Lord Latymer, service unknown.

Manor of Hyll, three messuages, three tofts, 100a. land, 10a. meadow, and 2s. rent in Old Wardon, worth 20 marks, held of the Abbot of Wardon, service unknown.

Two messuages, a shop, a toft, and 30a. land in Bykeliswade, worth 100s., held of John, Bishop of Lincoln, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (139.)





1105


AGNES DOMYLTON, late the wife of JOHN DOMYLTON, esq.




Writ 30 Dec., inq. 27 Jan., 10 Hen. VII.




She was seised of the under-mentioned manor and lands in fee for the term of her life (durante vita sua), all those leases and pastures called ‘le Salt Mershe’ and a meadow called ‘le Browmedow’ beside the Salt Mershe in the tenure of John Mortymer, knt., excepted.

She died 20 Dec. last. Margery Dombilton, daughter of William Dombilton, is next heir of John Dombilton and Agnes his wife, and is aged 16 and more.




HEREF. 

Manor of Lower Brokhampton with ‘le Home Hous,’ in the parish of Brokhampton, and divers tenements in Grymalbury in the parish of Whitborne, and Denes in the parish of Bromzard, also a water-mill in Brokhampton, with the advowson of the church there, and also all the lands and tenements, rents and services, in Upper Brokhampton, together with all the burgages and their appurtenances lying on ‘le Down’ which is called ‘le Ingestons Hold,’ with the above specified exceptions, held of Edmund, Bishop of Hereford, by the service and rent of 1d. yearly. The said manor, lands, and tenements, with the above exceptions, are worth 6l. clear yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (140.)





1106


WILLIAM EYSTON, esq.




Writ 4 Feb., inq. 2 March, 10 Hen. VII.




He died 23 Dec. last, seised of the under-mentioned manors and lands in fee. Thomas Eyston, aged 8 and more, is his son and heir.
[Page 472]




BERKS. 

Manor of Est Henrede, with the advowson of the chapel of St. John the Baptist within and belonging to the said manor, worth 11 marks, held of the King, as of the honor of Lancaster, by service of one knight’s fee.

A messuage and two virgates of land in Est Henrede and common of pasture for 24 beasts and 105 sheep in Aldefeld, worth 13s. 4d., held of the Abbot of St. Mary’s, Redyng, service unknown.

Manor of West Hanney, worth 10l., held of the King, as of the manor of Stanford, co. Berks, service unknown.

Manor of Catmere, worth 20 marks, held of the King, as of the honor of Tutbury, service unknown.

Two messuages and two virgates of land in Grove, worth 24s., held of John Ysbury, esq., as of the manor of Nether Letcombe, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (141.)





1107


AGNES DOMYLTON, as in No. 1105.




Writ 30 Dec., inq. 28 Jan., 10 Hen. VII.




She was seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee for the term of her life (durante vita sua).

She died 20 Dec. last. Margery Dombilton, daughter of William Dombilton, is the next heir of John Dombilton and Agnes his wife, and is aged 16 and more.




WORC. 

Manor of Mitton with land and tenements, mills, reliefs, marriages, wards, escheats, rent and services of tenants, with all reversions to the said manor belonging, held of the Lord Bishop of Worcester, by the rent and service of 1/2d. yearly; it is worth 5l. clear yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (142.)





1108


WILLIAM EYSTON, esq.




Writ 4 Feb., inq. 20 Feb., 10 Hen. VII.




Findings as in No. 1106.




OXFORD. 

Three messuages in Burford, worth 3l., held of the King, as of the duchy of Gloucester, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (143.)





1109


MARGARET CATESBY, late the wife of WILLIAM CATESBY, esq.




Writ 4 Dec., inq. the last day but one of February, 10 Hen. VII.




William Catesby, knt., being seised of the under-mentioned manors in fee, gave them to William Catesby his son and the said Margaret, his son’s wife, to hold to them and the heirs of William, and they were seised thereof accordingly, the said William in his demesne as of fee, and the said Margaret in her demesne as of frank tenement. He died so seised, and she survived him; and afterwards in the Parliament held at Westminster 7 Nov. 1 Hen. VII, the said William, the son, was attainted, by virtue of which attainder the said manors, she being now dead, come to the King’s hands.

She died 8 Oct. last. George Catesby, aged 22 and more, is her son and heir.




GLOUC. 

Manor of Willicote, worth 10l., and the manor of Alscote, worth 5 marks, held of the Abbot of Tewkesbury, by the rent of a grain of pepper yearly due at Michaelmas and by fealty, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (144.)



[Page 473]


1110


ROBERT PEPERELL, esq.




Writ 12 Feb., inq. 28 April, 10 Hen. VII.




He gave the under-mentioned lands in Pynesford, Lytelford, Legh All Saints, Braderigge, and Stokyngbrigge, to John Alyen alias Hancok, and Robert Evelyng, who demised them to him and Margaret his wife, who survives, viz. to him in fee and to her for the term of her life without impeachment of waste.

John Luveger, or Luyger, gave the under-mentioned land in Aveton Gyfford to him and the said Margaret and his heirs and assigns.

He died on the feast of the Purification last. William Pyperell, aged 21 and more, is his son and heir.




DEVON. 

A messuage, 1000a. land, 40a. meadow, 6a. wood, four fulling mills, and 27s. 4d. rent in Pynesford, worth 20 marks, held of Richard Pomerey and John Wadham, knts., as of the manor of Herberton, by fealty and suit of their court at Easter and Michaelmas, for all service.

A messuage, 30a. land, 3a. meadow, and 2a. wood in Lytelford, worth 10s., held of Edward, Earl of Warwick, as of the manor of Stokynham, by fealty and suit of court at Easter and Michaelmas, for all service.

A messuage, 40a. land, 2a. meadow, and 6a. wood in Legh All Saints, worth 13s. 4d., held of Edward Hastyng, Lord de Hastyng, knt., and Mary his wife, in her right, as of the manor of Dupeford, by fealty and suit of court at Easter and Michaelmas, for all service.

A messuage, 200a. land, and 10a. meadow, in Braderigge, worth 40s., held of the said Edward and Mary, as of the said manor of Dupeford, by fealty and 2s. rent yearly for all service.

A messuage, 40a. land, and 6a. meadow in Stokyngbrigge, worth 6s. 8d., held of John Prydeaux of Orcharton, by fealty, and 2s. rent yearly, for all service.

A messuage and 200a. land called ‘Lyxton,’ in the parish of Aveton Gyfford, held of John, Abbot of Bukfast, as of the manor of Hethfeld, by fealty and 24s. rent yearly, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (145.)





1111


JOAN INGALDESTHORP, as in No. 1085.




Writ 4 Nov., 10 Hen. VII; inq. 12 Nov., 11 Hen. VII.




She died seised of the under-mentioned manor and advowsons in fee.

Death and heirs asin No. 1085.




SALOP. 

Manor, or lordship, of Ledum, worth 100s., with the advowson of the church belonging to the said manor, held of the King, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.

The advowson of the Prebend of Pontisbury called Childhall, or Coldhall, tenure unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (146.) E. Series II. File 832. (2.)





1112


JOAN INGALDESTHORP, as in No. 1085.




Writ 4 Nov., 10 Hen. VII; inq. 12 Nov., 11 Hen. VII.




She died seised of the under-mentioned rent in fee

Death and heir as in No. 1085.
[Page 474]




N’HAMP.

A fee farm of five marks issuing from the manor of Blysworth, held of the King, by fealty only, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (147.)





1113


MARGARET late the wife of WILLIAM CATESBY, esq.




Writ 25 Oct., inq. 27 Feb., 10 Hen. VII.




Findings as in 1109.




WARW. 

Manor of Wellesburn, four messuages, 200a. land, 300a. pasture, 20a. meadow, 30a. wood, and 10s. rent in Wellesburn, worth 3l., held of the Abbot of Kenelworth, by 1d. rent at Michaelmas yearly and by fealty, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (148.) E. Series II. File 1115. Part I. (5.)





1114


JOHN TRENCHARD, knt.




Writ wanting; inq. 16 June., 10 Hen. VII.




He was seised of the under-mentioned manors, messuages, and lands, in fee (the manors of Biestwall and Stoburgh excepted), and being so seised enfeoffed Henry Strangways, William Fyloll, William Martyn, and John Wyke, esqs., and Thomas Moleyns thereof, on trust to allow his wife Margery to take the profits of the manors of Wulveton and Deverelles Combe till Thomas his son came of age, she providing a suitable chaplain to celebrate for his and his ancestors’ souls; and on trust, out of the profits of the other manors and lands, to find Thomas and Henry his sons in food, clothing, and other necessaries, and to pay his debts and legacies, and the debts of John Cheverell the said Margery’s first husband; and on trust, after the said debts and legacies were fully paid, to give the manor of Holcombe to the said Henry Trenchard in tail male, with remainder to the said Thomas Trenchard in tail, with remainder to his, the said John’s, right heirs, and to give all the other manors and lands to the said Thomas Trenchard in tail, with remainder to the said Henry Trenchard in tail, with remainder to his, the said John’s, right heirs.

The said William Martyn and Thomas Moleyns, and one William Basket, and Christopher Martyn, were seised of the under-mentioned manors of Biestwall and Stoburgh in fee, and being so seised demised them by deed dated 18 May, 5 Hen. VII, to the said John, and Margery his wife, who survives, to hold to them and his heirs and assigns.

He died 7 Jan. last. Thomas Trenchard, aged 16 years and 3 months, is his son and heir.




DORSET. 

Manor of Fiffehede Quynteyn, worth 14l., held of the Abbot of Glastonbury, service unknown.

Manor of Child Okeford, worth 10l., held of the said Abbot, service unknown.

Manor of Ham Mohun, worth 16l., held of Hugh Lutterell, knt., as of Dunster Castle, service unknown.

Manors of Deverelles Combe and Holcombe, worth 11l., held of the Abbot of Hyde, service unknown.

Manor of Wulveton, worth …, held of the Prebendary of Charmyster, by the rent of a red rose a midsummer yearly and suit of court twice a year, for all service.

Fourteen messuages and 10a. land in Dorchester and Colwallys, worth 40s., held of the Bishop of Salisbury, by 13s. 4d. yearly, for all service.
[Page 475]

Two messuages and 40a. land in Fordyngton, worth 10s., held of the Prince (de Domino Principe Anglie), as of the manor of Fordyngton, by suit of court (sectam ad curiam legalem) twice a year, for all service.

Two messuages and two gardens in Wymborne Mynster, worth 10s., held of the Dean of Wymborne, service unknown.

Two messuages and two gardens in Bire, or Byre, Regis, worth 6s. 8d., he d of Richard Turbervyle, service unknown.

Twelve messuages, 100a. land, and 12a. meadow, in Blanford Forum and Stokehide, worth 100s., held of Cicely, Duchess of York, as of the manor of Mershewode, service unknown.

Manors of Biestwall and Stoburgh, worth 12l., held of Christine Cheverell, widow, as of the manor of Stoke, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (149.)





1115


JOHN SUTHILL, esq.




Writ 23 Nov., inq. 12 Jan., 10 Hen. VII.




He was seised at the day of his death of the under-mentioned manors of Middil Rasyn in fee, subject to a yearly rent charge of 26s. 8d., which he created by deed dated 12 Jan., 7 Hen. VII, in favour of William Tyrwhit, knt., for the term of his life.

He was also seised of the under-mentioned fourth part of the manor of Barnby and of the messuage &c. in Byngbroke in fee at his decease.

Brian Rouclyff, Third Baron of the Exchequer to King Henry VI, and John Rouclyff, clk., rector of the parish church of Rypley, co. York, were seised of the under-mentioned manor of West Rasyn in fee, except three messuages, a cottage, four tofts, and twelve bovates of land, and being so seised gave it by deed dated 10 April, 6 Hen. VII, according to the form and effect of letters patent of the said King dated 7 Feb., the same year, to the said John by the name of John Suthill of Everyngham, co. York, esq., and Alice his wife, who survives, with remainder to his heirs.

He was seised of the under-mentioned manor (sic) of Westburgh, Stubton, and Dodyngton in fee, and being so seised gave it by deed dated 10 Jan., 5 Hen. VII, to Marmaduke Constable, knt., John Hart, Canon and Residentiary of the Cathedral Church of St. Peter, York, Richard Wasselyn, and Robert Kellesturne, chaplain, in fee, to the intent however that after his decease they should enfeoff Marmaduke Constable, son of the said Marmaduke Constable, knt., and Barbara daughter of him the said John Suthill thereof for the term of their lives in survivorship.

He died 14 Nov. last. George Suthill, aged 30 and more, is his son and heir, but the said George is and from his birth has been an idiot and natural fool.




LINC. 

Manor in Middil Rasyn called ‘Panell Fee,’ worth 53s. 4d., held of the King, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Middil Rasyn called ‘Nevell Fee,’ worth 40s., held of the King, as of Dover Castle, by service of 1/30 of a knight’s fee.

A fourth part of the manor of Barneby, or Barnby, on the Wethom, worth 4l., held of the Bishop of Lincoln, service unknown.

A messuage, twelve bovates of land, and 3d. rent, in Byngbroke, or Byngbrukes, worth 26s. 8d., held of the Dean and Chapter of Lincoln, service unknown.
[Page 476]

Manor of West Rasyn, worth 50l., held of the King, by service of 1/10 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Westburgh, Stubton, and Dodyngton, worth 26l. 13s. 4d., held of Thomas Burgh, knt., service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (150.)





1116


HENRY WYNTER.




Writ de Amotus, 14 July, 10 Hen. VII; inq. 22 Oct., 11 Hen. VII.




He died 12 April, 9 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned messuages and land in fee. Robert Wynter, aged 24 and more, is his son and heir.




LEIC. 

Ten messuages, 400a. land, 60a. meadow, and 200a. pasture in Neubold, Worthington, and Bredon, worth 10l., or with the under-mentioned cottage and croft 12l., held as follows:—

Three messuages, 80a. land, 20a. meadow, and 40a. pasture in Neubold and Worthyngton, held of the King as of the honor of Leycestre, parcel of the duchy of Lancaster, by service of 6s. 2d., fealty, and suit of the King’s court held there twice a year;

Six messuages, 200a. land, 100a. pasture, and 20a. land in Neubold and Worthyngton, held of Joan Talbot, widow, service unknown;

One messuage and the residue of the said land, meadow, and pasture in Bredon, held of John Thwayte and William Constable, by service of a pair of gloves and fealty, and by what further services the jurors know not;

A cottage with a croft adjacent beside the chapel of Worthington, held of the Abbot of Garaden by service of a pound of pepper at Michaelmas yearly and fealty for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (151.) E. Series II. File 1115. Part II. (7.)





1117


RICHARD CORBET, knt.




Writ de Amotus 7 Feb., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 28 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 6 Dec., 8 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned manors in fee. Robert Corbet, aged 16 and more, is his son and heir.




SALOP. 

Manor of Condover, worth 29l. 14s., held of the King, by knight-service.

Manor of Morton Corbet, worth 5l. 13s. 4d., held of Roger Whetelaue, by knight-service.

Manor of Preston Brokhurst, worth 10l., held of said Roger Whetelaue, service unknown.

Manor of Peynton, worth 8l. 13s. 4d., held of Nicholas Segrave, by knight-service.

Twenty messuages, 200a. land, 40a. meadow, 50a. pasture, and 10a. wood in Lawley, Bowley, Eggebald, ‘The Heth howse,’ ‘Harecote Parke,’ ‘Harecote Myll,’ and Bromfeld, with the Park of Shawbery, worth 30l., held of the said Roger Whetelaue service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (152.)



[Page 477]


1118


ROBERT GEDDYNG.




Writ 30 Oct., 9 Hen. VII; inq. 26 Sept., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 26 Oct. last. Margery Geddyng, aged 5 and more, is his daughter and heir.




NORF. 

He held no lands.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (153.)





1119


JOHN ELYS.




Writ 6 Aug., 10 Hen. VII; inq. 20 Sept., 11 Hen. VII.




By deed dated 12 May, 9 Hen. VII, he enfeoffed John Lenton, John Molt, William Marres, and John Cowlynge of the under-mentioned manor, to the use of himself and his last will, which he duly made.

He died 22 May, 9 Hen. VII. John Elys, aged 1 1/2 years, is his son and heir.




CAMB. 

Manor of Rikesbye in Burne, worth 10l., held of the honor of Richemund, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (154.)





1120


MARGARET SAMBORNE, widow.




Writ 18 May, 10 Hen. VII; inq. 12 Oct., 11 Hen. VII.




She was seised of the under-mentioned manors and lands in fee, and being so seised demised them to Christopher Ursewyk, clk., John Langford, William Brownyng, Thomas Restwold, and Nicholas Sambourne, for the term of their lives, to her own use, and the performance of her last will.

She died 14 Feb. last. Drew Sambourne, aged 40 and more, is her son and heir.




BERKS. 

Manor of Southcote, worth 20l., held of Hugh Kenepy, by fealty only, for all service.

Manor of Pynsons, worth 7l., held of the Abbot of Redyng, by 18s. rent and suit of court once a year.

Five hundred acres of land and 4a. meadow in Shynnefeld, worth 40s., held of Thomas Bowser, knt., by 2s. rent yearly, fealty, and suit of court once a year.

A tenement in Wokyngham called ‘Cage.’





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (155.)





1121


KATHARINE, sometime the wife of JOHN STOURTON DE STOURTON, knt., and late the wife of JOHN BREWERTON.




Writ 27 June, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 25 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




She was seised of the under-mentioned manors and lands in fee, and being so seised took to husband John Brereton, esq., whereby the said John and Katharine were seised thereof in fee in her right. They had issue a daughter Warborough, who survives, and John, John, Joan, Dorothy, and Dorothy, deceased.

She died 25 June last. The said John Brereton who survived her is seised of the said manors and land as tenant by the curtesy. The said Warborough, aged 6 and more, is her daughter and heir.
[Page 478]




HANTS. 

Manor of Myndstede, or Mynstede, with the advowson of the church there, together witli the hamlets of Totton, Berkeley, and Fritham, worth 50s., held of the King in chief, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Bettesthorne with the advowson of the chapel of the said manor, worth 100s., held of Margaret, Countess of Richemonde, as of the manor of Ryngwoode, by fealty only and 13s. 4d. rent yearly, for all service.

Manors of Eukesbury and Leope with the advowson of the church there, worth 20 marks, held of the King in chief, by serjeanty, viz. by finding a man with harness for the war between England and Scotland.

The moiety of a messuage and 18a. land in Wynketon and Bokehampton, or Brokehampton, worth 6s. 8d., held of Thomas West, Lord la Warre, by fealty, for all service.

A messuage with a curtilage adjoining and 40a. land in Arnewode, worth 10s., held of James Viall and Thomas Long, as of the manor of Bokelond, by fealty only, for all service.

Two messuages, three gardens, 25a. land, and 4a. meadow in Cryschurche, worth 13s. 4d., held of Margaret, Countess of Richemond, as of the castle, or manor, of Cryschurche, by fealty only, for all service.

A toft and 20a. land in Gorlyngton and Alkerton, worth 3s. 4d., held of John Trencherd, by fealty only, for all service, as of his manor of Mylford.

Twelve messuages, 200a. land, 20a. meadow, and 20a. wood in Est and West Aysshley, or Assheley, worth 53s. 4d., held of Margaret, Countess of Richemond, as of the manor of Ryngwoode, by fealty only, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (156.) E. Series II. File 959. (2.)





1122


KATHARINE, LADY STOURTON, as in No. 1121.




Writ 27 June, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 4 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




Findings touching the under-mentioned manors of Grymstede, Playteford, and Chadenwiche, and lands in Abbeston, &c., as in No. 1121.

William Carent and Thomus Huse demised the under-mentioned manor of Bakehampton to John, Lord Stourton, and the said Katharine his wife (as in No. 151). She survived him, and was seised of the said manor in her demesne as of frank tenement for the term of her life.

William, Lord Stourton, being seised of the under-mentioned manors of Wynterbourne Madyngton, Ablyngton, and Alton, and lands in Stanmore, &c., in fee, gave them to the said John and Katharine (as in No. 151). She survived the said John and was seised of the said manors and lands for the term of her life.

She died 25 June last. The lands late Lord Stourton’s revert to William, now Lord Stourton, aged 35 and more, as son and heir of the said William, Lord Stourton, the said John, Lord Stourton, having died without issue.




WILTS. 

Manor of Grymstede, worth 4l., held of the King in chief, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Playteford with the advowson of the chapel of the said manor, together with the hamlets of Bemerton, Quydhampton, More, and Farley, as parcels of the said manor, worth 100s., held of the King in chief, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee.
[Page 479]

A messuage and 60a. land in Abbeston together with the advowson of the free chapel there belonging to the said messuage and land, worth 20s., held of the Abbess of Wilton, by fealty only.

A messuage, two carucates of land, and 10a. meadow in Enford, worth 13s. 4d., held of the Prior of St. Swithin’s, Winchester, service unknown.

A messuage and 20a. land in Wellowe, worth 6s. 8d., held of the Dean and Chapter of Salisbury, service unknown.

Three tofts, two carucates of land, and 8a. meadow in Chelworth and Calecote, worth 10s., held of the King in chief, by service of 1/40 of a knight’s fee.

Three messuages and 80a. land in Wisheford and Stoford, worth 10s., held of the said Abbess of Wilton, service unknown.

Manor of Chadenwiche with the advowsons of three chantries in Mere, belonging to the said manor, worth 5 marks, held of the Bishop of Salisbury, service unknown.

Seven messuages and 240a. land in Weste Knoyle, worth 20s., held of the said Abbess of Wilton, service unknown.

Three messuages and 300a. land in Seggehill, worth 20s., held of the Abbess of Shaftesbury, co. Dorset, service unknown.

Manor of Bakehampton, worth 10l., held of the Master of Fodryngay College, service unknown.

Manor of Ablyngton, worth 10 marks, held of William Rengeborne, service unknown.

Manors of Alton and Wynterborn Madyngton, worth 4l., held of the Earl of Salisbury, service unknown.

Certain lands, tenements, rents, reversions, and services in Stanmore, Chesyngbury, Wilton, Stoford, Newton, and Quedehampton, whereof one messuage, and three cottages in Wilton, of no yearly value, are held of the Abbess of Wilton, service unknown, and five messuages, fifty acres of land, and five acres of meadow in Stoford, Neuton, and Quedehampton, worth 13s. 4d., are held of the said Abbess, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (157.) E. Series II. File 959. (3.)





1123


KATHARINE STOURTON, widow.




Writ 24 Oct., inq. 28 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




William Huddesfelde, Thomas Welles, Roger Hulse, Sir William Bladon, chaplain, Sir Thomas Baker, chaplain, Giles Baker (sic), and John Pole, being seised of the under-mentioned manors and lands in fee, demised them (as in No. 4) to John, late Lord Stourton, and the said Katharine his wife, with remainder to his heirs and assigns. She survived him and was seised of the said premises for the term of her life.

She died 25 June last, when the said premises descended to William, now Lord Stourton, knt., aged 35 and more, as brother and heir of the said John, late Lord Stourton, by virtue of the above remainder.




GLOUC. 

Manor and advowson of Shepton Moyne, worth 20s., held of the King, by knight-service.

A messuage with a curtilage called ‘Hulcourte,’ or ‘Hulcrofte,’ 40a. land, 3a. meadow, and 20s. rent in Shepton, worth 13s. 4d., held of John Estcourte, service unknown.
[Page 480]

A toft called ‘Okysyesplace’ in Shepton, of no yearly value, held of the Abbess of St. Mary’s, Winchester, by 40s. rent at Easter and Michaelmas yearly, for all service.

A water-mill in Shepton, worth 3s. 4d., held of the Abbot of Cirencester, service unknown.

A toft and a virgate of land in Shepton, worth 3s. 4d., held of the said Abbot of Cirencester, by the rent of a red rose on Midsummer day yearly, for all service.

A tenement called ‘Pedworthesplace’ in Shepton, containing 20a. land, worth 6s. 8d., held of John Estecourte, service unknown.

Manor of Velehome beside Berkeley, worth 40s., held of the Lord de Berkeley, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (158.)





1124


LADY KATHARINE STOURTON.




Writ 8 July, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 4 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




She was seised of the under-mentioned manors of Kyngton Magna and Langenham, and lands in Melbury and Shaftesbury in fee, and being so seised married John Brereton, esq., who survived her, and is seised of the said manors and lands as tenant by the curtesy, having had issue by her Warborough who survives, and John, John, Dorothy, and Dorothy, deceased. The said Warborough, aged six and more, is her daughter and heir.

William Waynflete, Bishop of Winchester, and others demised the under-mentioned manors of Owre Moygn and Weston Moygn to her and John, Lord Stourton, then her husband (as in No. 11) with remainder to his heirs. She survived him and was seised of the said manors for the term of her life, which, on her decease, descended to William, now Lord Stourton, aged 35 and more, as brother and heir of the said John.

She died 25 June last.




DORSET. 

Manor and advowson of Kyngton Magna, worth 100s., held of the Abbot of Glastonbury, by fealty only, for all service.

Manor of Langenham, with the advowson of the chapel of the said manor, worth 40s., held of Elizabeth, Queen of England, as of the manor of of Gillyngham, by 10s. rent and fealty, for all service.

A messuage and 200a. land in Est Melbury and Shaftesbury, worth 26s. 8d., held of the Abbess of Shaftesbury, by fealty only, for all service.

Manor of Owre Moygn, held of the King in chief, by knight-service. There are in the said manor a capital messuage of no yearly value above deductions, 100a. arable worth 20s., 40a. meadow worth 40s., 40a. pasture worth 6s. 8d., 100a. heather worth 13s. 4d., and a water mill worth 20s. yearly; there are also in the said manor 20 messuages, and 100a. arable, in the hands of tenants at the will of the lord according to the custom of the manor, who render therefore yearly 100s. at Christmas, Easter, Midsummer, and Michaelmas, by equal payments.

Manor of Bokerys Weston, otherwise called Weston Moygn, worth 6l., held of William Courtenay, knt., by the service of a sparrow hawk on the feast of St. Peter ad Vincula yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (159.)



[Page 481]


1125


PARTITION of lands of JOHN IWARDBY, esq., deceased, between his daughters and heirs.




Writ 11 Nov., partition 20 Jan., 10 Hen. VII.



LINC. 

Edmund Churche the Escheator in the absence of the heirs assigned to William Elmes and Elizabeth his wife one of the daughters and heirs of the said John Iwardby, which Elizabeth had proved her age, the under-mentioned pasture as her purparty of the lands and tenements whereof the said John Iwardby was seised and which after his death were taken into the King’s hands viz.

A pasture called ‘le Est Feldes,’ parcel of the manor of Brakenborough, late in the tenure of John Cokke.

He assigned to Margery, another of the daughters of the said John, who had proved her age,

A pasture called ‘le West Feldes,’ parcel of the said manor of Brakenborough and a capital messuage in Kelstron, late in the tenure of Thomas Andrews.

The under-mentioned messuages, land, and rent, remain in the King’s hands as the purparty of Ellen, wife of William Knyght, the third such daughter and heir, she being still under age and in the King’s custody,

Sixteen messuages, 300a. arable, 40a. meadow, and 17s. 2d. rent of assise in Kelstron, late in the tenure of Richard Yerborowe, John Comens, Thomas Belome, and others.

A messuage, 62a. arable, and 10a. meadow in Fauthorpe.

Eighty-six acres of pasture and 37s. rent of assise in Saltfletby, late in the tenure of Robert Rocheford, George Stephen, and others, and 2s. rent in Granethorpe, late in the tenure of Thomas Scott.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (160.)





1126


LADY KATHARINE STOURTON.




Writ 8 July, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 5 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




She was seised of the under-mentioned manor of Norton in fee, and being so seised married John Brereton, esq., by whom she had issue Warborough, who survives, and John, John, Dorothy, and Dorothy, now deceased. The said John Brereton, who survived her, is now seised of the said manor in his demesne as of frank tenement as tenant by the curtesy. The said Warborough, aged 6 and more, is her daughter and heir.

William Huddesfeld, Thomas Wellys, Roger Huls, William Bladon, chaplain, Thomas Baker, chaplain, Giles Dacre (sic), and John Pole, by deed indented dated the last day of September, 18 Edw. IV, demised the under-mentioned lands in Lygh and Colford to her and John, Lord Stourton, her husband (as in No. 18). She survived him and was seised of the said lands for the term of her life.

She died 25 June last, when the lands which were the said John, Lord Stourton’s descended to William, now Lord Stourton, aged 35 and more, as his brother and heir. Cf. No. 334.




SOMERS. 

Manor of Norton, worth 14s. 4d., held of John Deveros, Lord Ferrers, as of his manor of Norton, co. Somerset.

Four messuages, two water-mills, 20a. pasture, and 20a. gorse and heather in Colford, worth 20s., held of Christopher Tropenyll, service unknown.
[Page 482]

Ten messuages, 30a. arable, 40a. pasture, and 20a. gorse and heather in Lygh, worth 40s., held of John Wroughton, esq., and Margaret his wife, in her right, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (160*.)





1127


JOHN FULSTOWE.




Writ of Mandamus 12 Oct., inq. 20 Oct., 11 Hen. VII.




The said John Fowelestowe being seised of the under-mentioned messuage and lands in fee enfeoffed John Langton of Langton beside Parteney, esq., John Langton son and heir of the said John Langton, Thomas Rygge of Botheby in the parish of Wolton, Thomas Wright, rector of the mediety of the church of Ester Kele, Richard Fowelestowe his younger son, John Pynder of Lower Toynton, and John Presbery of Lower Toynton, thereof, by the name of all his lands and tenements, leases and pastures, rents, reversions, and services in the towns, fields, and territories of Upper Toynton, Lower Toynton, Ester Kele, Parteney, Dalby, Hoggesthorp, Ingoldemelles, and Skegnesse in fee, to the use of his last will.

By his last will he directed that the said lands and tenements should remain, after the death of Margaret his wife, to the said Richard Fowelestowe his younger son in tail if he survived her. The said Margaret is dead and the said Richard is still living.

He died on the feast of St. Blaise which was in the year of Our Lord MCCCCLXXX three last. Robert Fowelestowe, aged 25 and more, is his son and heir.

The said Margaret took all the issues and profits of the said lands and tenements by virtue of his said last will from his decease to the day of her death, viz. 2 Jan., 5 Hen. VII, and the said Richard Fowelestowe has occupied the said lands and tenements and taken the issues and profits thereof from her decease to the day of the taking of this inquisition.




LINC. 

A messuage and two bovates of land in Toynton, two tofts and two bovates of land there, a toft and a half bovate of land in Ester Kele, and a toft and a bovate of land in Parteney, held of Maud, Lady de Willughby, service unknown.

A toft and three bovates of land in Dalby held of divers lords, viz. one bovate of land of William Brereton, knt., one toft and another bovate of land of Martin Newcom, and another bovate of land of William Copuldyke, esq., services unknown.

A toft and 12a. land in Hoggesthorp, held of the Lady Margery Welles, service unknown.

A toft and 30a. land in Ingoldemelles, and a toft and 12a. land in Skegnesse, held of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, service unknown.

All the above lands and tenements are worth six marks clear yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (161.)





1128


WILLIAM SOMERTON.




Writ wanting; inq. 23 Jan., 10 Hen. VII.




Edmund, late Earl of Kent, being seised of the under-mentioned manor, messuages, and rent in fee gave them to him, and Agnes his wife, who survives, with remainder to the heirs of his body, with remainder to the right heirs of William Newenham.
[Page 483]

He died 22 June last without issue. Elizabeth, wife of William Cowley, aged 29 and more, is cousin and heir of the said William Newenham, viz. daughter of his daughter.




N’HAMP.

Manor of Thenford in Thenford, worth 10l., two messuages, worth 2s. 8d., and 24d. rent, in Purston, held of George Stanley, knt., Lord le Straunge, and Joan his wife, in her right, as of the manor of Bysseter, co. Oxford, by fealty and 1d. rent only at Michaelmas yearly, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (162.)





1129


WILLIAM STONER, knt.




Writ 15 Oct., inq. 4 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




He died 21 May last seised of the under-mentioned manors. John Stoner, aged 10 and more, is his son and heir.




SOMEBS. 

Manors of Knell and Gotehill, worth 20l., held of the King in chief, by service of one knight’s fee.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (163.)





1130


JOAN INGALDESTHORP, as in No. 1085.




Writ 4 Nov., 10 Hen. VII; inq. 12 Nov., 11 Hen. VII.




She held a moiety of the under-mentioned manor and park for the term of her life in dower from Edmund Ingaldesthorp, knt., her late husband, with reversion to John Stonor, Elizabeth wife of Henry Wentworth, knt., late wife of Thomas, late Lord le Scroppe of Upsale, knt., Margaret wife of John Mortymer, knt., Lucy wife of Thomas Fitzwilliam, knt., and Isabel wife of William Hodelston, esq., as cousins and heirs of the said Edmund, viz. to the said John Stonor as son of Anne, one of the daughters and heirs of Isabel, daughter and heir of the said Edmund Ingaldesthorp, and to the said Elizabeth, Margaret, Lucy, and Isabel as the other daughters and heirs of the said Isabel his daughter.

She died 21 June, 9 Hen. VII. The said John Stonor, aged 10 and more, and the said Elizabeth, Margaret, Lucy, and Isabel, all aged 23 and more, are her cousins and heirs, as the daughters, and the son of the daughter, of Isabel her daughter and heir.




SURREY. 

A moiety of the manor of Estheldesford (Shalford), and a moiety of the Park of Alfold in Alfold, worth 20l., held of Edward, Duke of Buckingham, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (164.)





1131


MARGARET CATESBY, late the wife of WILLIAM CATESBY, esq.




Writ wanting; inq. 28 Feb., 10 Hen. VII.




Findings as in No. 1109.




OXFORD. 

Manor of Walcote, worth 6l., manor of Ipwell, worth 3l., and the manor of Chestelton, worth 100s.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (165.)



[Page 484]


1132


HENRY LANGELEY.




Writ 26 July, 10 Hen. VII; inq. 19 Nov., 11 Hen. VII.




Robert Holynghawe, chaplain, being seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee gave it to the said Henry and Elizabeth Peyton daughter of Thomas Peyton of Iselham, co. Camb., esq., to hold to them, the said Henry and Elizabeth, and the heirs of the body of the said Henry; and the said Henry and Elizabeth were accordingly seised thereof, he in his demesne as of fee tail, and she in her demesne as of frank tenement; and afterwards the said Henry took the said Elizabeth to wife.

The said Henry Langley of Lolwurth died 10 Aug., 11 Hen. VII (sic); the said Elizabeth his wife survived him. Edward Langley, aged 16 and more, is his son and heir.




CAMB. 

Manor of Lolwurth with its appurtenances in Lolwurth, Chylderley, Boxwurth, and Conyton, worth 20 marks, held of the Bishop of Ely, as of the manor of Ditton, co. Camb., service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (166.)





1133


JOAN INGALDESTHORP, as in No. 1085.




Writ 4 Nov., 10 Hen. VII; inq. 10 Nov., 11 Hen. VII.




She died seised of the under-mentioned third of a manor in fee.

Death and heirs as in No. 1130.




LINC. 

A third part, worth 4l., of the manor of Little Rosby, held of the King, by fealty only, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (167.)





1134


WILLIAM CASE.




Writ 15 Oct., inq. 22 Nov., 10 Hen. VII.




He was seised of the under-mentioned messuages and lands in fee, and being so seised gave them to William Hody, knt., John Speke, knt., by the name of John Speke, esq., Hugh Inge, clk., and John Soper, in fee, to the use of himself and his last will.

He died 1st Oct. last. Edith, aged 7, and Mary, aged 1, are his daughters and heirs.




SOMERS. 

A messuage and 100a. land, meadow, and pasture in South Pederton, called ‘Orchardes,’ worth 10 marks, held of Giles Daubeney, Lord Daubeney, knt., by 20s. rent yearly, for all service.

A messuage and other lands and tenements, with their appurtenances in Seo and Ilmyster, value not stated, held of the Abbot of Mochelney, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (168.)





1135


WILLIAM FELTON.




Writ 3 June, 9 Hen. VII; inq. 29 Oct., 10 Hen. VII.




William Felton, gent., named in the writ, died 23 Dec., 9 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned manors and lands in fee. Edmund Felton, aged 32 and more, is his son and heir.




ESSEX. 

Manor of Pentelowe in Pentelowe, worth 16l., and the advowson of the church of Pentelowe belonging to the said manor, held of Lord John [Page 485]Fitzwater, knt., as of the manor of Schymplyng Thorn, by service of 8s. 4d. yearly.

Manor called ‘Pakkardes’, and a tenement called ‘le Perye’ in Bradwell and Tyllyngham, worth 10l., held, the manor, of the manor of Est Hall in Bradwell belonging to New College, Oxford, service unknown, and the tenement, of the Dean of the Cathedral Church of St. Paul, London, service unknown.

A garden with a dovecot and 3a. meadow in Balidon, worth 20s., held of the Prior of Colne, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (169.) E. Series II. File 292. (9.)





1136


ROGER TOUNESHEND, knt.




Writ wanting; inq. Tuesday after the feast of the Decollation of St. John the Baptist, 10 Hen. VII.




John Hoo of Blyburgh and Robert Payne of Westhale were seised of the under-mentioned manor of Brampton in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., William Tendryng, Edmund Jenney, and Thomas Sefoull thereof in fee, to the use of the said Roger in fee. By his last will he bequeathed the said manor to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder to Thomas their son in tail on attaining his full age, with remainder in default for sale by the executors of the said Eleanor his executrix, the price thereof to be disposed for the benefit of his and her souls, and the souls of their friends and benefactors, where most bounden.

John Hoo of Blyburgh, John Hevenyngham, knt., Robert Clere, esq., Henry Everard, William Halle, clk., Robert Pylgryme, clk., Simon Goddyng, and William Gardyner were seised of the under-mentioned messuages and land in Spekeshale, Wyset, and Rumburgh, and being so seised enfeoffed Roger Towneshend, knt., William Pekenam, clk., and others, thereof in fee, to the use of the said Roger in fee. By his last will he bequeathed them to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of Brampton.

William Wale, William Forde, and Thomas Appylton were seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land in Hadle, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., William Pekenham, Archdeacon of Suffolk, Thomas Wodhous, and William Gurnay, esqs., Thomas Gygges, gent., and William Wayte thereof in fee, to the use of the said Roger in fee. By his last will he bequeathed the said messuage and land to Thomas his son, after the said Eleanor’s decease, and after the said Thomas should have come to his full age, in fee tail, with remainder for sale, as above.

He died 9 Nov., 9 Hen. VII. Roger Touneshend, aged 16 and more, is his son and heir.




SUFF. 

Manor of Brampton, worth 4l., held of William Playter, as of the manor of Uggehale, by fealty and 2s. rent at Easter and Michaelmas yearly, by equal payments.

A messuage and 200 acres of land, meadow, and pasture, called ‘Scrowbyes’,’ ‘Swerdbrondes,’ and ‘Reves’, in Spekeshale, Wyset, and Rumburgh, worth 10l., held of Thomas Mongemory, knt., William Pekenham, clk., and Robert Clere, esq., as of the manor of Wyset Roos, by fealty and 3l. rent at Easter and Michaelmas yearly, by equal payments.
[Page 486]

A messuage and 160 acres of land, meadow, and pasture, in Hadle, worth 100s., held of the Prior of Cauntyrbury, as of his manor in Hadle, by fealty and 12d. rent at Easter and Michaelmas equally yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (170.) E. Series II. File 607. (9.)





1137


ELIZABETH, wife of JOHN STURGES and one of the daughters and heirs of HENRY PAKENHAM.




Writ de Ætate probanda, 20 June, 10 Hen. VII; probatio œtatis, the feast of St. Simon and St. Jude the Apostles, 11 Hen. VII.



NORF. 

She was born 4 Dec., 20 Edw. IV, in a certain place called ‘Pakemans’ in Shropham, and baptized the same day in Shropham church, John Tate and Elizabeth Sampton being gossips.

Her lands were in the custody of Richard Suthwell, esq., by the grant of Thomas Wodehous, to whom King Richard III had granted the same.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (171.)





1138


ALICE LUCY.




Writ 14 April, 10 Hen. VII; inq. 10 Nov. 11 Hen. VII.




She was seised of the under-mentioned manor for the term of her life by demise from Edmund Lucy, esq., son and heir of William Lucy, knt., with reversion expectant to the said Edmund and his heirs.

She died 8 March, 10 Hen. VII. After her death the said Edmund Lucy entered into the said manor by virtue of the said reversion. He is 30 years old and more.




LEIC. 

Manor of Claybroke called ‘Lucyes maner’, worth 8l., held of the Lord de Lazouche, by fealty, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (172.) E. Series II. File 1115, Part II. (6.)





1139


THOMAS MOUNTENEY, clk.




Writ de Amotus 29 June, 9 Hen. VII; inq. the last day but one of October, 11 Hen. VII.




He died 12 June, 6 Hen. VII, seised of the under-mentioned manor and land. William Mounteney, aged 40 and more, is his son (sic) and heir.




NORF. 

Manor called ‘Bek Hall’ in Wilby, worth 100s., held of Thomas Curson, esq., as of the manor of Wilby, by fealty and 4s. yearly, for all service.

A messuage in Wilby called ‘Up Halle’, worth 13s. 4d., held of William Knyvet, knt., as of the manor of Bokenham Castell, by service of one suit to the court held there.

Sixty acres and one rood of land in Hargham, worth 13s. 4d., held of Roger Taillour, by fealty and 8d. rent yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (173.)





1140


FRIDESWIDE, wife of JOHN MORTON, and one of the sisters and heirs of THOMAS DALAMARE, cousin and heir of THOMAS DALAMARE, knt., viz. son and heir of JOHN DALAMARE, esq., his son.




Writ de Ætate probanda 16 Feb., probatio œtatis 20 May, 10 Hen. VII.

[Page 487]


BERKS. 

She was born at Aldermanston and baptized in the church of St. Mary, Aldermanston, 15 Aug., 19 Edw. IV, by Thomas Caresse the parish priest there; Thomas Wode, serjeant-at-law, Alice then wife of Thomas Dauberichecourt, esq., and now wife of Richard Elyott, and Alice wife of Richard Kyngesmyll, being gossips. Her mother’s name was Joan. Anne Dauberichecourt carried ‘le Crysom’ to church. Julian Coterels, or Coterell, sister of John Coterels, a juror aged 40 and more, died at Aldermanston that day, Margaret Beneman, mother of John Beneman, a juror aged 40 and more, was buried in St. Mary’s church, &c.

Her lands were in the custody of John, Archbishop of Canterbury, by grant from Richard Guldeford, knt., who had the same by grant from King Henry VII.






1141


JOAN INGALDESTHORP, as in No. 1085.




Writ 4 Nov., 10 Hen. VII; inq. 1 Nov., 11 Hen. VII.




She died seised of the under-mentioned rent in fee.

Death and heirs as in No. 1130.




WORC. 

A yearly rent of 4l. to be received from the fee farm of 100l. of the town of Dertwyche at Easter and Michaelmas yearly by even portions at the hands of the Bailiffs of the said town for the time being, held of the King, by fealty only, for all service. Its clear yearly value is 4l.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (175.)





1142


JOHN BONVYLE, esq.




Writ 19 Aug., 10 Hen. VII; inq. 14 Oct., 11 Hen. VII.




He was seised of the under-mentioned manor and lands in fee, and being so seised suffered a recovery thereof, 12 March, 2 Ric. III, to John Stanney, John Hamont, or Hamond, clk., John Burgh, and Thomas Stampe, who are now seised thereof in fee.

He died 24 August, 10 Hen. VII. Elizabeth wife of Thomas West, knt., Florence wife of Humphrey Fulford, knt., and John Copleston are his next heirs, viz. the said Elizabeth and Florence as his daughters, and the said John Copleston as his cousin and one of his heirs general, viz. son of Ralph, son of Anne, another of his daughters and heirs. The said Elizabeth is aged 21 and more, the said Florence aged 22 and more, and the said John Copleston aged 17 and more.




SOMERS. 

Manor of Tateworthy, twenty messuages, a mill, 300a. land, 40a. meadow, 100a. pasture, 10a. wood, 500a. heather, 30a. gorse, and 9s. rent in Tateworthy, worth 10l. 6s., held of the Bishop of Bath, by knight-service, and 7s. 9d. rent yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 10. (176.)





1143


ROGER TOUNSHEND, knt.




Writ wanting; inq. Thursday after St. Bartholomew the Apostle, 10 Hen. VII.




He died 9 Nov., 9 Hen. VII. Roger Towneshend, aged 16 and more, is his son and heir.




NORF. 

John Eyre was seised of the under-mentioned manors and lands in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., and Dame [Page 488]Eleanor his wife, who survives, thereof, to hold to them and the heirs of their bodies, with remainder to John Blakeney and William Gurnay, esqs., and Thomas Gyggys in fee, to the use of the said Roger and Eleanor and his heirs and assigns, to the use of his last will:—

Manor called ‘Havyles’ in Est Reynham, West Reynham, and South Reynham, Helloughton, Toftes, Oxwyk, Wyssyngset, Hornyngtoft, and Gatele, held of William Pekenham, clk., Thomas Wodhous, Edward Knyvet, and William Gurnay, esqs., Thomas Blakeney, Edmund Harberd, clk., William Wayte, and John Pegeon, as of their manor of Reynham lately called ‘Scales maner’ by fealty and 2d. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally;

Manor called ‘Rowses’ in the said towns held of the said William Pekenham, clk., and the others, as of the said manor called ‘Scales maner’, by fealty and 2s. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally;

Two hundred and sixty acres of land, and 30a. meadow in the said towns, held of the said William Pekenham and the others, as of the said manor called ‘Scales’, by fealty and 3s. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally;

The said manor (sic) is worth 10l. clear yearly.

William Asshefeld, clk., Reginald Asshefeld, gent., and Richard Radle, were seised of the under-mentioned manor and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., Thomas Gygges, and William Wayte thereof to the use of the said Roger in fee, who being so seised of the said manor and land gave them by his last will to Eleanor his wife to hold from and after his decease for the term of her life, with remainder to Roger their son in tail male, with remainder to Thomas their son in tail male, when he attained his full age, with remainder to the right heirs of Roger their son, with remainder to right heirs of Thomas, with remainder to his own right heirs of the body, with remainder for sale to be disposed for the safety of the souls of himself and the said Eleanor, of their friends, and especially of their greatest benefactors:—

Manor called ‘Halles’ in Helloughton, held of the said William Pekenham, clk., and the others, as of their said manor in Reynham lately called ‘Scales maner’, by fealty and 10s. yearly rent at Easter and Michaelmas equally;

Eighty acres of land and 10a. meadow in Helloughton, Reynham, Rudham, Brunsthorp, and Taterford, held of the said William Pekenham, clk., and the others, as of their said manor called ‘Scales maner’, by fealty and 4s. yearly rent at Easter and Michaelmas equally;

The said manor and lands are worth 40s. clear yearly.

William Payne, clk., was seised of the under-mentioned manor, tenement, and office, in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Towneshend, knt., William Calthorp, knt., and Henry Spelman and William Gurnay, esqs., thereof in fee, to the use of the said Roger in fee. By his last will the said Roger gave the said manor, &c., to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as is specified above concerning the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor called ‘Paynes’ in Helloughton, Great Reynham, Little Reynham, Brunsthorp, Rudham, Taterset, and Sengham, worth 33s. 4d, held of the said Eleanor Towneshend, William Gurnay, and Thomas Gygges, [Page 489]as of their manor called ‘Havyles’, by fealty and 12d. yearly rent at Easter and Michaelmas equally;

A tenement in Castelacre called ‘Saunders’, 100a. land, meadow, and pasture, and the liberty of a fold belonging to the said tenement, and the office of bailiff of the manor of the Earl of Arundell in Castelacre.

William Dynne, esq., and Robert Harvy were seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., William Gurnay, Edmund Harberd, clk., and William Wayte thereof in fee, to the use of the said Roger in fee. He by his last will gave it to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor called ‘Stapylles’ in Heloughton, with its members and appurtenances in Helloughton, Reynham, Brunsthorp, and Taterford, or elsewhere in the county, worth 30s., held of the said Eleanor Touneshend and the others, as of their said manor called ‘Havyles,’ by fealty and 2s. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

John Pykard, chaplain, was seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Towneshend and Eleanor his wife, who survives, thereof, for the term of their lives in survivorship and a year over, with remainder to Thomas Wodhous, esq., son and heir of Edward Wodhous, knt., and to Thomasine his wife, one of the daughters of the said Roger and Eleanor, and their issue male, with remainder in default to the heirs male of the body of the said Thomas, with remainder to John and Robert Wodhous brothers of the said Thomas in tail, with remainder to the said Roger Touneshend in tail male, with remainder to the said Thomas Wodhous in tail, with remainder to the said Roger Towneshend, knt., in fee: —

Manor of Lucham, worth 7l., held of the Countess of Richemond the King’s mother, as of the manor of Durwode Hall in Myleham, parcel of the honor of Richemond, by fealty and 5s. 10d. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

George Nevyll, knt., Lord Burgevenny, and the Lady Margaret his wife, daughter and heir of Hugh at Fenne, were seised of the under-mentioned manors and advowson in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger, Thomas Gygges, and William Wayte thereof in fee, to the use of the said Roger, who, by his last will gave them to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor of Little Ryburgh, held of the Master of the College of the Holy Trinity, Pomfret, as of the manor of Sculthorp, by fealty and 17s. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally;

Manor and advowson of Styberd, held of the King, as of the manor of Fakenham, parcel of the duchy of Lancaster, by fealty and 13s. 4d. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

Manor of Geist.

The said manors are worth 6l. clear yearly.

John Paston, knt., was seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Townesend, knt., William Gurnay, John Blakeney, esq., and Walter Fornfeld thereof, to the use of [Page 490]the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to the said Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor of Est Beckham with its members and appurtenances in West Beckham, Sheryngham, Beston by the Sea, Runton, Shipden, Felbrygge, Aylemerton, Susted, and Gressham, worth 100s., held of the Duchess of Norfolk, as of the manor of Hanworth, by fealty and 5s. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

Thomas Gygges was seised of the under-mentioned manor and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Townesend, knt., Henry Heydon, knt., William Gurnay and Thomas Wodhous, esqs., Edmund Harberd, clk., and William Wayte, thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to the said Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor of Bermer and 200a. land and pasture in the same town, worth 4l., held of the Prior of Castelacre, as of the manor of Baggethorp, by fealty and 3s. 4d. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

John Wake and Robert Wauton, esqs., Robert Arnold, William Dey, chaplain, John Ivotte, William Gonneld, and Edmund Parell, were seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Townesend, Thomas Wodhous, esq., Edmund Harberd, clk., and William Wayte thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to the said Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor of West Toftes, worth 4 marks, held of the Bishop of Norwich.

William Baker of Est Walton, yeoman, John Seyntwary, clk., and John Sergeaunt of Swaffham, notary, were seised of the under-mentioned land, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Tounesend, Thomas Wodhous, William Gurnay, esq., and Edmund Harberd, clk., thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to the said Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Eighty acres of land and 40a. pasture in Necton, Sparham, Sporle, and Dunham, worth 40s., held of the Earl of Warwick, as of the manor of Necton, by fealty and 3s. 4 1/4 d. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

William Fraunsham, Richard Bumsted, clk., Robert Banyard and John Banyard, esqs., and William Boudes of Hensted were seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Tounesend, Thomas Dyghton of Methwold, William Hoppes, Thomas Bettes, and John Gryckes thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to the said Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor of Bathele called ‘Nogeons’, worth 26s. 8d., held of the manor of Bathele, by fealty and 1 1/2 d. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

William Beefoo was seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Townesend, William Pekenham, clk., John Fyncham, and Henry Spelman thereof to the use of the said [Page 491]Roger, who by his last will gave it to Eleanor his wife, for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor called ‘Beefoes’ in South Creyk, worth 4l., held of the King by reason of his hundred of Galowe, by fealty and 12d. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

Ralph Asshton, esq., Edmund Pekeryng, Nicholas Ovy, and Thomas Nynyght, clk., were seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Tounesend, knt., John Radclyff de Fitzwater, knt., Henry Heydon, knt., and William Wayte, thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to Eleanor his wife, for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor or ‘Halles’:—

Manor called ‘Cryspynes’ in Happysburgh, worth 3l. 6s. 8d., held of the Abbot of Wymondham, by fealty and 16s. 8d. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

Thomas Thorysby, burgess and merchant of the town, or borough, of Lynn, Robert Thoresby of Asshwelton, gent., John Fyncham, son and heir apparent of John Fyncham, lawyer, and Roger Straunge, esqs., and Thomas Archer, were seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Tounesend, knt., Thomas Wodhous and William Gurnay, esqs., and William Wayte thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave the said messuage and land to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

A messuage, 60a. land, and 20a. pasture called ‘Barettes’ in South Creyk, worth 53s. 4d., held of the said William Pekenham, John Fyncham, and Henry Spelman, as of their said manor of Beefoes, by fealty and 2s. 3 1/2 d. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

Thomas Gygges, Simon Burgony, clk., and John Barker, perpetual vicar of the church of Wyghton, were seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., John Bougeour, clk., Edmund Harberd, clk., and William Wayte thereof to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor called ‘George of Wightones’ in Wyghton, worth 40s., held of the King, as of the manor of Wyghton, parcel of the duchy of Lancaster, by fealty and 2s. rent at Easter and Michaelmas equally yearly.

John Skarnyng, Abbot of St. Mary’s, Wendelyng, William Skarlet of Hoo, Thomas Heygh, notary, Nicholas Yelverton, esq., and Christine his wife, late called Ferour of Wendelyng aforesaid, William Lamkyn of the same, John Crudde, Thomas Gent, and Thomas Ketylston, were seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed John Pykard, chaplain, and Thomas Wodhous and William Gurnay, esqs., thereof to the use of the said Roger Touneshend, knt., who by his last will gave it to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—
[Page 492]

A messuage and 80a. land in Tytleshale and Godwyk, worth 23s. 4d., held of the Prior of Cockesford, as of the manor of Est Rudham, by service and rent of 2s. yearly.

John Pagrave, esq., Henry Faldyate of Norwich, grocer, John Bauge of North Tudenham, William Tendale, John Jenney, Richard Whymbergh, John Holler, Thomas Broun, and John Massyngham of Norwich, grocer, were seised of the under-mentioned manor in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., William Gurnay, esq., Thomas Gygges, and Thomas Sefowll, thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

Manor called ‘Skarnynges’, worth 60s., held of the Earl of Oxford, as of the manor of Medelton, by fealty and 2s. rent at Easter and Michaelmas equally yearly.

Robert Fuller, clk., Thomas Wyggenhale, and Simon Hunston were seised of the under-mentioned messuages and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., and Dame Eleanor his wife, William Pekenham, clk., and Edmund Bedyngfeld, knt., thereof, to the use of the said Roger and Eleanor and his heirs and assigns: and the said Roger by his last will directed that the issues and profits coming therefrom should be disposed on two priests to celebrate service and pray in the church of St. Mary, Est Reynham, for the space of eight score years for the souls of himself, the said Eleanor, and their friends:—

Three messuages, 30a. meadow, 160a. land, and 60a. pasture in Hardewyk, Middelton, Roungton, West Wynche, and South Lenn, held of the Earl of Oxford, as of the manor of Middelton, by fealty and 20s. rent at Easter and Michaelmas yearly equally: and the said manor (sic), and the said messuages, meadow, pasture, and land, are worth 14l. clear yearly.

Joan Lyng of Wyssyngset, widow, was seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., Thomas Gygges, John Bougeour, and Edmund Harberd, clk., thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

A messuage, 80a. land, and 30a. pasture in Wyssyngset and Hornyngtoft, worth 66s. 8d., held of the heirs of John Bosome, as of the manor of Wyssyngset, by fealty and the rent of 3s. 1d. at Easter and Michaelmas equally yearly.

William Baker of Est Walton, John Seyntwary, clk., and John Sergeaunt of Swafham, notary, were seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., Thomas Wodhous and William Gurnay, esqs., and Edmund Harberd thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

A messuage, 40a. land, and 20a. pasture in Geyton, worth 26s. 8d., held of William Calthorp, knt., as of the manor of Calthorp by fealty and 8d. rent at Easter and Michaelmas equally yearly.
[Page 493]

John Bernesdale of Berwyk and William Doo of Fyncham were seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Towneshend, knt., and William Gurnay and Thomas Wodhous, esqs., thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave them to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

A messuage and 50a. land and pasture in Little Massyngham, worth 26s. 8d., held of the Earl of Surrey, and Elizabeth his wife, in her right, as of the manor of Little Massyngham, by fealty and 6d. rent at Easter and Michaelmas equally yearly.

John Legge of North Pykenham was seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., and Thomas Wodhous and William Gurnay, esqs., thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave it to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

A messuage and 20a. land in Longham, worth 13s. 4d., held of Richard Bockyng, as of the manor called ‘Guntons’, by fealty and service of 8d. yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

Thomas Gygges, ‘gentelman’, was seised of the under-mentioned lands, &c., and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Touneshend, knt., Edmund Harberd, clk., and William Wayte, thereof, to the use of the said Roger, who by his last will gave them to Eleanor his wife for the term of her life, with remainder as in the case of the manor of ‘Halles’:—

All those messuages, lands, tenements, rents, and services in South Creyk and Sydestern called ‘Godfreys’, worth 100s., held of the Abbot of Creyke, by fealty and 14s. rent yearly at Easter and Michaelmas equally.

Edmund Godale of Sydestern, Edmund Hartyng, and Thomas Pern late of Est Bersham, were seised of the under-mentioned messuage and land, and being so seised enfeoffed the said Roger Towneshend, knt., William Gurnay, Thomas Gygges, and John Pegeon thereof, to the use of the said Roger in fee:—

Two messuages called ‘Obyes’ and ‘Godales’ 100a. land, and 20a. heath in Sydestern, worth 40s., held of Terry Robeshart, knt., as of the manor of Sedestern, by fealty and service of 2s. at Easter and Michaelmas yearly equally.

William Tendale, knt., was seised of the under-mentioned manor called ‘Scales’, and land in Reynham, an acre of land in the said manor excepted, and except such rents and services as the lord of the manor called ‘Scales’ ought to have yearly of the lord of the manor of Podyng Norton, by reason of the manor of Podyng Norton, and being so seised enfeoffed, having previously obtained licence for the purpose from the King, the said Roger Towneshend, knt., and Eleanor his wife, Roger and Thomas their sons, William Pekenham, Thomas Wodhous, Philip Calthorpe, Edward Knyvet, and William Gurnay, esqs., Thomas Blakeney, Edmund Harberd, clk., William Wayte, and John Pegeon thereof, with the above exceptions, [Page 494]to the use of the said Roger and Eleanor, and thereafter to the use of the last will of the said Roger:—

Manor of William Tendale in Reynham St. Martin otherwise called the manor styled ‘Scales maner’, a water-mill, 100a. land, and 40a. meadow and pasture in South Reynham, Est Reynham, and West Reynham, worth 106s. 8d., held of the King, as of Dover Castle, by fealty and 10s. rent yearly.





C. Series II. Vol. 11. (1.) E. Series II. File 607. (8.)





1144


JOHN DOREWARD, esq.




Writ wanting; inq. Monday before All Hallows, 11 Henry VII.




He died the last day of February last. Margaret, wife of Nicholas Beupre, aged 19 and more, Ellen, wife of Henry Thursby, aged 18 and more, and Christine, wife of John de Veer, aged 14 and more, are his cousins and heirs, viz. daughters of Elizabeth his sister.




ESSEX. 

Henry Wentworth, John Hevenyngham, and John Paston, knts., Philip Calthorpp, Henry Tey, Thomas Sampson of Plaisford, Robert Tirell, and Thomas Huntyngdon, esqs., John Brewode, Thomas Henyngham, and John Loveday, gentlemen, John Mandele, and Richard Botery, clks., John Paycok of Coggeshale the younger, and Thomas Malden of Sudbury, mercer, were seised, by feoffment from the said John Doreward, and to his use and the use of his last will, of the under-mentioned manors of Barewykis and Scotneys in fee.

Similarly Robert Broughton, Henry Wentworth, and John Paston, knts., John Ednam, clk., Philip Calthorpp, Henry Tey, and Thomas Sampson of Playsford, esqs., John Brewode, and Thomas Malden, were seised of the under-mentioned manor of Great Yeldham, &c., in fee, to the same use.

And afterwards it was agreed by indentures between the said John Doreward of the one part, and John, Earl of Oxford, Great Chamberlain, and Admiral of England, Viscount Bulbek, and Lord de Scales, of the other, that before Midsummer then next John de Veer, cousin of the said Earl, should take to wife Christine Fodrynghay, daughter and one of the heirs of Thomas Fodrynghay, and cousin and one of the heirs of the said John Doreward, viz. daughter of his sister Elizabeth; in consideration of which marriage so to be had, and of a sum of money to be paid him by the said Earl, the said John agreed that the said feoffees should stand seised of the said manors of Barewykis, Scotneys, Great Yeldham, &c., to the use of him the said John Doreward and Margery his wife for the term of their lives without impeachment of waste, and after their decease to the use of the said John Veer and Christine, and the heirs of their bodies, and for default of such issue to the use of the said Earl and his heirs, and the performance of his last will:—

Manors of Barewykis and Scotneys, worth 20 marks, held of Cicely, Duchess of York, as of the honor of Clare, service unknown.

Manor of Great Yeldham, 300a. land, 200a. pasture, 40a. meadow, and 60a. wood in Great Yeldham, Toppesfeld, Hengham at Castle, Hengham Sebill, or Sybill, Wetheresfeld, Stamborn, Redeswell, Tilbury near Clare, and Fynchyngfeld, worth 20 marks, held of the said Duchess, as of the said honor, service unknown.
[Page 495]

John Brewode and Thomas Oxenbregge were seised of the under-mentioned manor and lands in fee, which belonged heretofore to John Doreward of Bokkyng, esq., in right of Blanch his wife, and whereof Thomas Fenys, esq., and Anne his wife receive the issues and profits, and being so seised they enfeoffed John, Earl of Oxford, Giles Daubeney, knt., Lord de Daubeney, Thomas Fenys, knt., Lord Dakre, Christopher Ursewik, late Dean of York, Henry Wentwurth, and John Paston, knts., John Feneux, one of the justices of the common pleas, John Ednam, clk., Richard Carewe, Henry Tey, John Cheyney, Robert Tirell, Thomas Sampson of Plaisford, and Thomas Huntyngdon, esqs., Richard Botery, clk., and Robert Oxenbregge, gent., thereof, to the use of the said Thomas and Anne Fenys for the term of their lives without impeachment of waste, voluntary waste in the houses excepted, and after their decease to the use of the said John Doreward of Yeldham in fee.

And the said John Doreward agreed with the said Earl of Oxford, by the indentures aforesaid, that the said manor and lands should remain after the death of the said Thomas and Anne Fenys to himself and the said Margery his wife for the term of their lives without impeachment of waste, with remainder after their decease to the said John and Christine de Veer and their issue, with remainder in default to the heirs of the body of the said John Doreward of Bockyng, his grandfather, with remainder to his own heirs:—

Manor of Alresford, and 300a. land, 400a. pasture, 20a. meadow, and 60a. wood in Alresford, Fratyng, Thoryngton, and Wevenho. Part of the said manor, viz. a messuage, 140a. land, 4a. meadow, 52a. pasture, and 60a. wood, worth 10 marks, is held of the King in chief, as of the honor of Boulogne, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee, and the residue of the said manor with all lands in Alresford, Fratyng, Thoryngton, and Wevenho, worth 10 marks, is held of Richard, Bishop of London, service unknown.

The said John Doreward and Thomas Oxenbrege were seised of the under-mentioned manors, lands, and advowsons in fee, and being so seised demised them to the said Thomas and Anne Fenys for the term of their lives in survivorship without impeachment of waste, voluntary waste in the houses there excepted, with remainder to the said John in fee. Afterwards the said John gave the reversion of the said premises, expectant on the death of the said Thomas and Anne, to John Ednam and John Fenney, clks., to the use of himself and Margery his wife for the term of their lives without impeachment of waste, with remainder to the use of the said John and Christine and the heirs of their bodies, with remainder to the use of the heirs of the body of the said John Doreward the grandfather, with remainder to his own right heirs. The said Thomas and Anne Fenys attorned to the said Ednam and Fenney:—

Manor called ‘Dorewardys’ in Bokkyng, the manors of Shaldefordys, or Shalfordys, and Bradfordys, and two messuages, two water-mills, 1,000a. land, 200a. meadow, 1,000a. pasture, 70a. wood, and 40l. rent, in Bokkyng, Stysted, Branktre, Shaldford, Gosfeld, and Wetheresfeld, with the advowsons of two chantries in Bokkyng church, worth 20l., held of the Prior of Christ Church, Canterbury, service unknown.

Thomas Fynes and Anne his wife suffered a recovery of the under-mentioned manor to Thomas Oxenbrege and John Brewode, to the [Page 496]use of themselves the said Thomas and Anne for the term of their lives, with remainder to the use of the said John Doreward in fee, and to the use of his last will. Afterwards it was agreed by the indentures aforesaid between him and the said Earl of Oxford, that the said Thomas Oxenbrege and John Brewode should, after the death of Thomas and Anne Fynes, stand seised of the said manor to the use of the said John and Christine Veer and their issue, with remainder to the use of the Earl in fee:—

Manor of Tendryng, worth 5l., held of the heirs of Hugh Blunde, service unknown.

The said John Doreward was seised of the under-mentioned manors in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed Henry Wentworth, knt., and others, as above, thereof, to the use of his last will. By his last will he directed that his executors should after the decease of Margery his wife sell the said manors and apply the proceeds to the performance of his last will:—

Manor of Ewelle Halle, worth 6 marks, held of the heirs of John Fylyngley, service unknown.

Manor of Hakwell, or Brakwell, worth 10 marks, held of the King, as of the honor of Rayghley, by fealty and 2s. rent yearly, for all service.

The said John Doreward was seised of the under-mentioned manor of Sturmere in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed William Pekeynham, clk., Dean of the College of Stoke by Clare, Robert Broghton, knt., John Ednam, clk., John Brewode, Thomas Maldon, and Robert Sonham thereof in fee, to the use of his last will. By his last will he directed that the said manor should remain, after the death of Margery his wife, to John Wyngfeld, esq., and Margaret his wife, his cousin, and their issue male, charged with the payment of 5l. yearly in such form as should be settled in certain indentures to be made between his executors, viz. the said Margery Doreward, John Ednam, John Brewode, and Thomas Maldon, of the one part, and the said John and Margaret Wyngfeld of the other; with remainder in default of such issue after the death of the said John and Margaret to his said executors for sale, and the proceeds thereof to be disposed between the daughters of the said John and Margaret Wyngfeld and their boys as ordered by the said last will:—

Manor of Sturmere, worth 10 marks, held of the Duke of Bokyngham, as of the manor of Haveryll Halle, by fealty and 2s. 6d. rent yearly.

The said John Doreward was seised of the under-mentioned tenements in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed Henry Wentworth, knt., and others, as above, thereof, to the use of his last will. By his last will he ordered that, if they had not been disposed of by himself in his life time, the said tenements should, after the death of Margery his wife, be sold by his executors, and the proceeds applied to the performance of his last will:—

Certain messuages, lands, tenements, marshes, rents, and services in Rawreth, Wikeford, Ronewell, Beneflete, Hadlegh, Thonderle, and Raylegh, called ‘Borell’, Dalamares, and ‘Parkeres Lande.’ The tenement called Dalamares is worth 6 marks, and is held of Nicholas Seynt John, as of the manor of Bowres Hall, by service of 8s. 4d. yearly; and the tenement called Borell, worth 4 marks, is held of John, Earl of Oxford, as of the manor of Dowenham Hall, by service of 6s. yearly.
[Page 497]

The said John Doreward was seised of the under-mentioned manors and land in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed Henry Marney, knt., Robert Tirell, William Tendryng, William Tey, Thomas Skipwith, clk., and William Breton, thereof, to use of himself and his last will. By his last will he gave the said manors and land to Joan Doreward of Colchester, widow, for the term of her life, with remainder to Margery his wife for the term of her life without impeachment of waste, with remainder for sale for his soul’s welfare:—

Manors of Olyvers and Belhows, with lands and tenements called ‘Shrebbehows’, ‘Kyrton’, and ‘Parmonteres’, in the towns of Stanwey and Colchester.

Thomas Oxenbrege and John Brewode were seised of the under-mentioned manor and tenement in fee, and being so seised demised them to Thomas Fynes, esq., and Anne his wife for the term of their lives in survivorship without impeachment of waste, voluntary waste in buildings only excepted, with remainder after their decease to the said John Doreward in fee, who being seised accordingly of the said remainder granted by his writing dated 4 Feb., 10 Hen. VII, that after the death of the said Thomas and Anne Fenys the said manor and tenement should remain to John Ednam and John Fynney, clks., to the use of himself and Margery his wife and his heirs and assigns. By his last will he directed that after their decease the said manor and tenement should be sold by his executors the proceeds to be distributed in alms and charitable works for the welfare of his soul. Thomas Fenys and Anne his wife attorned accordingly to Ednam and Fynney, who by virtue of the said grant and attornment were and are seised of the said reversion in fee:—

Manor of Shardlows, worth 100s., held of Henry, Earl of Essex, as of the manor of Bouser in Halsted, by service of fealty and 6s. rent yearly, for all service.

A tenement called ‘Lucas’ in Shalford, worth 40s., held of William Gate, esq., by service of fealty, for all service.

Richard Doreward and Robert Browne and others, whose names at present the jurors do not know, were seised of the under-mentioned manor of Rawreth in fee to the use of John Doreward, knt., now deceased and his heirs, to the intent that the said Robert, Richard, and others their cofeoffees should make an estate thereof to Clemence Wentyngfeld, his intended wife, for the term of her life, on condition that she, at or about the time of the marriage to be had between them, should deliver divers of her goods and chattels of the value of 1000 marks in silver vessels and other jewels to the said Sir John, to be held by him as his own proper goods, with remainder of the said manor, after her decease, to the said Sir John in fee. Doreward, Browne, and the others, accordingly demised the said manor to her for the term of her life, on the said condition, and with the said remainder. The marriage duly took place, but though often required thereto by the said Sir John she refused and still refuses to deliver the said goods, while by virtue of the said demise she was and is seised of the said manor in her demesne as of frank tenement for the term of her life. And afterwards the said Sir John had issue a son John Doreward of Bokkyng, esq., to whom at his death the reversion of the said manor descended. And the said John Doreward, esq., the son, died, whereupon the said reversion descended to the [Page 498]said John Doreward named in the writ, as his cousin and heir, viz. son and heir of William Doreward, son of John Doreward late of Bokkyng, esq., father of the said John Doreward, knt., father of the said John Doreward, esq. At the death of the said John Doreward named in the writ the said reversion descended to Margaret wife of Nicholas Beaupre, Ellen wife of Henry Thoursby, and Christine wife of John de Veer, esq., as his cousins and heirs:—

Manor of Rawreth, worth 20l., held of the King, as of the honor of Boulogne, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee.

Robert Broghton, knt., and others, as above, were seised of the under-mentioned manor of Leden Rodyng, and being so seised demised it to the said John Doreward and Margery his wife for the term of their lives in survivorship without impeachment of waste, with remainder after their decease to William Walgrave the younger, one of the sons of William Walgrave of Smalbrege, co. Suffolk, esq., and Anthony Walgrave his younger brother successively in tail male, with remainder to William Walgrave their father in tail male, with remainder to the other heirs of his body in tail male, with remainder to his right heirs. The said John and Margery Doreward were accordingly seised, and the said Margery is still seised, thereof in their demesne as of frank tenement, and the said William Walgrave of the said remainder in his demesne as of fee tail:—

Manor of Leden Rodyng, worth 10l., held of the heirs of John Writell, as of the manor of Maskallesbury in White Rodyng, service unknown.

The said John Doreward was seised of the under-mentioned manor, mills, messuages, and land, and being so seised enfeoffed Henry Wentworth, knt., and others as above, thereof, to the use of himself and his heirs; and afterwards, viz. 20 Feb., 10 Hen. VII, it was agreed between him and Ralph Chaumberlen of Kyngston, co. Cambridge, esq., that the said feoffees should make an estate thereof to him and Margery his wife for the term of their lives in survivorship without impeachment of waste, with remainder to the said Ralph and Edward Chaumberlen his brother successively in tail, they paying 10l. yearly at Christmas and Midsummer after the decease of the said John and Margery to the said feoffees, to the use of the said John and his heirs and of his last will:—

Manor of Coggeshale, otherwise called ‘Coggeshale Hall’, two water-mills called ‘Poyntell Melle’ and ‘Esterford Melle’, 200a. land, 100a. meadow, and 10a. wood in Coggeshale, Markeshale, Colne, Feryng, Kelden, Blakwater, Inwourth, Stysted and Fordham Forthe, together with thirty-two messuages in Coggeshale, severally held of the Abbot of St. Peter’s, West-minster, the Abbot of St. Mary’s, Coggeshale, and Robert Suthwell, esq., and Anne his wife, in her right, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 11. (2a.)





1145


JOHN SUTHILL, esq.




Writ wanting; inq. 15 Jan., 10 Hen. VII.




He was seised of the under-mentioned manor, &c., of Drax, and rents from the tenants there, in fee, and being so seised, by deed dated … Jan., 8 Hen. VII, he appointed Robert Constable, brother of Marmaduke Constable, knt., steward of the said manor for life, with a fee of 40s. charged thereon, for the exercise of the said office by himself, or his sufficient deputy.
[Page 499]

By deed dated 19 Nov., 6 Hen. VII, he gave the under-mentioned rents due from his free tenants in Newland and Drax to Henry Suthill his brother for life, the farms, rents, and services of John Joright and John Crubane in Drax excepted; by reason of which gift all the free tenants aforesaid subsequently in the life time of the said John attorned to the said Henry in respect of their several rents and services aforesaid; and the said Henry by virtue of the said gift and several attornments was, and is still, seised of the said rents, amounting to 9l. 18s. 1d. in his demesne as of frank tenement.

By deed dated 19 Nov., 6 Hen. VII, he gave the under-mentioned rents due from divers his free tenants in Armyn, Langrake, Rusham and Skurth, amounting to 9l. 7s. 1d., and rents from his free tenants of base tenure in Langrake, amounting to 23s. 1/2d., to Nicholas Suthill his brother for life. The tenants severally attorned to the said Nicholas in the life time of the said John, wherefore the said Nicholas was and is seised of the said rents in his demesne as of frank tenement.

He was seised of the under-mentioned manor of Skynygravis in fee, and being so seised gave it to Ralph Rilston for life, at a rent to him and his heirs at Pentecost and Martlemas yearly of 4l. 16s. 4d. The said Ralph accordingly was, and still is seised of the said manor in his demesne as of frank tenement.

John Gunthorp and John Hert, clks., Thomas Burgh, Marmaduke Constable, knt., Robert Sheffeld, Edmund Thwaytes, William Panell, Richard Waslyn, Ralph Gascoign, John Fulneby, and John Villers, esqs., Henry Suthill, Nicholas Suthill, and Robert West the younger, gents., were seised of the under-mentioned manors of Everyngham, Garthom, and Neuton, &c., in fee, and being so seised by deed dated 24 July, 1 Hen. VII, demised them to him by the name of John Suthill of Everyngham, esq., and Alice his wife, who survives, to hold to them and his heirs and assigns.

He died 14 Nov. last. George Suthill, aged 30 and more, is his son and heir. Moreover the jurors by virtue of the office of the escheator then present there say that the said George is and from the time of his birth has been an idiot and natural fool.




YORK. 

Manor, lordship, or soke, of Drax, with its appurtenances in Drax, Armyn, ….., Neulond, Rusham, and Skurth, held of the King in chief by service of one knight’s fee (or service unknown), and worth, with the exception of the rents next below, 8l., or 9l.

Rents amounting to 9l. 18s. 1d. due from divers free tenants of and for their several lands and tenements in Newland and Drax at Pentecost and Martlemas yearly, viz. for lands and tenements in Drax from—Richard Raby, 16d., William Goldesburgh, 23d., Henry Warde, 2s., John Hemmyngburgh, 2s. 7d., John Frere, 6d., John Elyot, 2s. 3d., Thomas Moreham, 3s., and for other lands there 16d., Thomas Hemmyngburgh, 22 1/2 d., for other lands there 6d., and for other lands there 2d., Thomas Hobson, 5s. 3 1/2 d., John Folwell, 22d., Agnes Wayte, 15d., John Porter, 4s., Richard Raby, 16d., William Frankleyn, 3s., William Oliver, 12d., John Warde ……, William Chippyngdale, 5s. 8 1/2d., for other lands there 6d., and for other lands there ……, John Hubard, 2s. 9d., Robert Webster, 6d., Thomas Webster, 3s. 4d.; for lands and tenements in Newland from—William, ….., 6s. 8d., John Hobard, 7s. 3d., William Newland, 5s. 7 1/2 d., R … Kendall, 12d., Richard Portyngton, 4s. 2d., John Dawney, 2s. 10d., … Warde, 4s. 8d., Alice late the wife of Robert Kykylpeny, 2s. 6d., John. Thomasson, 4s. 6d., Thomas Turnour, 4s. 2d., Alice Valans, 4s., William [Page 500]Nelson, 2s. 2d., and for other lands there 2s., William Clayton, 9s. 8d., Alice Portyngton, 18s. 10d., and for other lands there 3s., Thomas Hauden, 6s., John Markand, 3s. 2d., William Chereholme, 4s., and for other lands there 18d., Richard Raby, 5s., John Warde, 9s. 6 1/2d., and for other lands there 7 s., 10d. John and Thomas Warde for other lands there, 18d. ……., 4s., John Capper, 14d., Thomas Bowthor, 6s. 2d., Robert Dishford, 2s. 6d., John Nelson, 17d.

Rents amounting to 9l. 7s. 1d. due from divers free tenants of and for their several lands and tenements in Armyn, Langrake, Rusham, and Skurth, viz. in Armyn from—Thomas Haldenby, 53s. 4d., Gibbert Dayle, 7s. 1/2 d.; in Rusham from—Thomas Rusham, 2s. 6d., William Marley, 3d., Joan Walker, 8s., Robert Sikirwham, 3s. 2d.; in Skurth from—William Ayrmyn, 15s.; in Langrake from—Thomas Butler, 12d., and for other lands there 7d., John Hubard, 26s. 8d., Richard Skipwyth, 3s., and for other lands there 3d., John Moreham, 3s. 11d., and for other lands there 2s. 6d., John Midilwod, 12s. 8d., and for other lands there 6d., John Durham, 2s. 6d., Joan Wayde, widow, 3s. 4 1/2 d., Andrew Gryse, 6s., Robert Feton, 3s., Robert Bracebrigg, 6s. 9d., Henry Kydder, 6d., William G … son, 6d., John Cusworth, 7s., Stephen Cotes, 13d., Thomas Kydder, 18 .., John Chereholme, 5s. 6d., Thomas Stapilton, 5s., William Anderton, 13d., Thomas Wod, 3d., Richard Kydder, 4d., John Kydder, 12d.

Rents amounting to 23s. 1/2 d. from divers free tenants of base tenure (de bassa tenura) in Langrake, viz. from—Andrew Gryse, 2s. 9d., John Okys, 15d., Richard Skipwith, 3s., William Anderton, 2s., Stephen Cotys, 3s. 4d., Robert F …., 6d., John Chereholme, 2s. 3d., and for other lands of base tenure there 6d., Joan Warde, 18d., John Warde, 3d., John Durham, 22d., John Hubard, 2s. 6 1/2 d., and John Midilwood, 15d.

Manor of Skynyngravis, of the clear yearly value of 4l., held of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, service unknown.

Manors of Everyngham, Garthom, and Neuton, the advowsons of the parish church and chantry within the lordship of Everyngham, and four messuages, three cottages, 200a. land, and 100a. meadow in Everyngham, Garthom, and Neuton, whereof the manor of Everyngham and lands there, worth 40l., are held of Thomas, Archbishop of York, by service of 1/2 of a knight’s fee, and the manors of Garthom and Neuton and lands there, worth 10l., of the Bishop of Durham, service unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 11. (2B.)





1146


WILLIAM POPE.




Writ 27 Jan., inq. the last day of March, 12 Hen. VII.




He gave the under-mentioned lands to William Sherman, clk., rector of the church of St. Nicholas, Little Boudon, John Clerk, of the town of Northampton, and John Freman, to the use of his last will.

By his last will he directed that his executors, viz., the said John Clerk, John Freman, and his son William Pope, should take the profits of the premises for a term as yet unexpired for the performance of his said will, and thereafter, that his said feoffees should make an estate in fee simple of his lands in Sutton to Thomas Pope his eldest son, and similar several estates of his other lands to William, John, and Edward Pope, his younger sons.

He died 20 Dec. last, Thomas Pope, aged 18 and more, is his son and heir.
[Page 501]




N’HAMP.

Four messuages and 336a. land in Little Boudon, whereof three messuages and 300a., worth 9l., are held of the Prince, as of the honor of Berkhamsted, co. Herts., by fealty and 4s. 6d. rent, for all service; one messuage and 36a., worth 10s., of Nicholas Griffyn, esq., as of the manor of Braybroke, by fealty, other services unknown; and the residue (sic) of his lands there, worth 6s. 8d., of the Prior of St. John the Baptist of Jerusalem in England, as of the manor of Dyngley, by fealty, other services unknown.

A messuage and 40a. land in Great and Little Oxston, worth 13s. 4d., held of the Lord Edward, Duke of Buckingham, as of the manor of Rothewell, by fealty, other services unknown.

A messuage and 60a. land in Sutton, worth 40s., held of the Lord Edmund de Ros, as of the manor of Stoke Dawbeney, by fealty, other services unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 11. (3*.)





1147


RICHARD CHAMBERLEYN, esq.




Writ 7 Sept., inq. 6 March, 12 Hen. VII.




He gave the under-mentioned manor of Denford to Thomas Danvers, Thomas Rokys the elder, John Langston, and Thomas Ingylfeld, esqs., and Richard Norton and Richard Payn, clks., to the use of himself and his last will.

By his last will he directed that his said feoffees should, after his death, stand seised of the said manor to the use of his sons William, Thomas, and John, on their respectively attaining the age of 26, for the term of their lives, viz., of 1/3 thereof, divided off by metes and bounds, to the use of the said William at the age of 26, if in the meantime he abided by the direction and ordinance of his mother Sybil, one of the said Richard’s executors; and similarly of 1/3 to the use of Thomas and 1/3 to the use of John, with benefit of survivorship; and further he directed that the said Sybil and his other executors should take the issues and profits of the said manor till his said sons attained the said age for the performance of the said will, or, if they all died under that age, till Anne his daughter attained the age of 21; and he directed that his said feoffees after the death of his said sons should stand seised of the premises to the use of his right heirs.

He died 28 Aug. last, seised of the other under-mentioned manor and lands in fee. Edward Chamberleyn, aged 16 and more, is his son and heir.




N’HAMP.

Manor of Cotys, called ‘Chamberleyn Cotys’ alias ‘Milne Cotys’, worth 6l., held of the Earl of Kent, as of the manor of Brune, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.

Manor of Denford, worth 16l., held of the Earl of Stafford, by fealty, other services unknown.

Thirty acres of land and meadow in Wylowyncotys, worth 24s., held of the Duke of Buckingham, as of the earldom of Stafford, by service of 1/20 of a knight’s fee.

Three shillings and four pence rent in Rawndys, held of the King, as of the duchy of Lancaster, by service of 1/8 of a knight’s fee.

Four messuages and 120a. land in Ryngstede, worth 3l. 3s. 4d., held of George, Earl of Kent in socage, by fealty, other services unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 11. (4.)



[Page 502]


1148


ROBERT NEVYLL, esq.




Writ 26 Oct., inq. 3 Nov., 11 Hen. VII.




Thomas Grene, knt., and Robert Olney, John Eton, Richard Knynghtley, and Thomas Throkmerton, esqs., demised the under-mentioned manor and advowson of Stoke Goldington (a moiety of Stoke Parke excepted) to him by the name Robert Nevyll son of Robert Nevyll, esq., and to Joan daughter of John Walssh, esq., his wife, who survives, and the heirs of their bodies, with remainder in default to the right heirs of Robert Nevyll the father.

And further the said Thomas Grene, knt., and the others, by their deed indented, wherein it is recited that the said Robert Nevyll his father and Joan his wife were seised for the term of their lives of the other under-mentioned manor and lands and the moiety of Stoke Park, by the gift of and with reversion to them the said Thomas Grene, knt., and the others, and the heirs of Olney, as appeared by a fine levied 32 Hen. VI, gave the said reversion expectant on the decease of the said Robert the father and of Joan his wife, to the said Robert the son and Joan (Walssh) his wife, and the heirs of their bodies, with remainder in default to the right heirs of Robert his father; and the said Robert the father, and his wife, attorned to Robert the son and his wife by the payment of 1d., as appears by their writing.

He died 26 July last. Michael Nevyll, aged 15 and more, is his son and heir.




BUCKS. 

Manor and advowson of Stoke Goldyngton and the moiety of a wood called ‘Stoke Parke’, lying towards a close called ‘le Brende’, worth 4l., and the manor and advowson of Gotehurst, and certain lands in Lathbury and Lynford, worth 100s., held of the King, services unknown.





C. Series II. Vol. 11. (5.)





1149


WILLIAM STANLOWE, esq.




Writ of mandamus, 11 Feb., inq. 10 June, 11 Hen. VII.




The said William Stanlowe of Silke Willoby, co. Linc., esq., and John Sparowe and John Cooke, chaplains, enfeoffed John Gigur, clk., Warden of Tattishale College, and William Empson, chaplain, of the under-mentioned manors of Silkeby and Dembleby, and of the lordship of Kirkeby Lathorp with their appurtenances, together with divers other messuages, lands, and tenements in Silkeby Willoby and Dembleby, thentofore purchased by the said William Stanlowe of divers persons, over and above the said manors. And being seised thereof accordingly in fee the said Gigur and Empson demised the said manors, lordship, and lands to John Stanlowe and Katharine his wife, Robert Dymmoke, knt., George Tailbois, esq., Philip Lepizate, clk., Sub-dean of Lincoln, Thomas Wymbyssh, esq., Thomas Swynford, esq., John Grisley, rector of Quarington, Thomas Hale, rector of Dembleby, and Richard Amyson, chaplain, to the use of the last will of the said William. The said Katharine, Philip Lepizate, and Thomas Hale have died, and the survivors are seised of the said premises in fee.

He died 9 Aug., 16 Edw. IV. John Stanlowe, esq., aged 32 and more on the day of the said William’s death, is his son and heir.

The said John has taken the issues and profits of the said premises, being of the yearly value of 12l. 15s.
[Page 503]




LINC. 

Manor of Silkeby; the site of the manor with houses on it is of no value yearly; there are there belonging to the said manor 100a. arable, worth 3d. each yearly, 16a. of several meadow, worth 8d. each, three messuages, 8a. land, and 3a. meadow adjoining the said three messuages, worth 30s., two crofts of pasture containing 6a., worth 2s. 8d., the rent of assise of divers free tenants there, viz., 20s. due yearly at Michaelmas. And there are within the said town of Silke Willoby, over and above the said manor, eight messuages, two tofts, and two crofts, which are no parcel of the manor of Silkeby but were bought of divers men by the said William Stanlowe, some whereof are held of the heirs of William Ermyn, knt., as of his lordship of North Wellughby there by 2s. rent and suit of court at Michaelmas, and some of the Prior of Haverholme by 2d. rent yearly, the same being worth 3l. a year.

Manor of Dembleby, within which are the site of the manor with houses built on it of no value yearly; four score acres of arable demesne land, worth 3d. each, 10a. meadow, worth 8d. each, 4 messuages, and 40a. arable and 10a. meadow adjoining the said messuages, worth 40s., a certain several pasture, worth 13s. 4d., and 20d. rent of assize of divers free tenants there due at Michaelmas only. The advowson of the parish church of Dembleby, which is of no yearly value, belongs to the said manor.

The said manors of Silkeby and Dembleby, and other lands above specified are worth 12l. 15s., and the said manors were held of the Lord Beaumont, as of Folkyngham castle, by knight-service, 6d. rent yearly, and suit of court there twice a year.

The lordship of Kirkeby Lathorp, worth 60s. 8d., held of the King, as of the fee of La Hay, parcel of the duchy of Lancaster, by castleguard of Lincoln and suit of the rier-county there twice yearly at Michaelmas and Easter, and a rent of 8s. silver, for all service.





C. Series II. Vol. 11. (6.)





1150


JOHN PAYNE, esq.




Writ 12 Aug., 11 Hen. VII; inq. 22 Oct., 12 Hen. VII.




He was seised of the under-mentioned land in Ludwill and Banwill in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed John Monke and Edward Stowell, now deceased, and John Hill, John Hadley, and Dodington, who survive, thereof to the use of Elizabeth daughter of Robert Stowell, esq., then his wife, who survives, for the term of her life.

He was seised of the other under-mentioned manor and lands in fee, and being so seised enfeoffed Robert Stowell, esq., John Thowie, clk., Robert Stowell the younger, John Wele and John Newman, chaplains, William Oldmixon, William Poxewelle, and John Payn of Briggewater thereof to the use of himself and his last will. The said last will was produced to the jurors.

He died 12 Aug., 12 Hen. VII (sic). Thomas Payn, aged 10 and more, is his son and heir.




SOMERS. 

One hundred and sixty acres of land in Ludwill, worth 3l., held of Thomas Newton, knt., and Joan his wife, and of John Morgayn and Elizabeth his wife, daughter and heirs of Thomas Hampton, esq., as of the manor of Westwode, service unknown.

One hundred acres of land in Banwill, worth 40s., held of the Prior and Convent of St. Thomas, Worspring, as of the manor of Worspring, by fealty only, for all service.
[Page 504]

A moiety of the manor of Hutton, with the alternate presentation to the church of Hutton, twenty messuages, 200a. land, 40a. meadow, 300a. pasture, 100a. wood, and a windmill in Hutton, seven messuages and 120a. land in Elbarow, or Elbarough, one messuage and 30a. land in Pontissyd, or Ponteside, two messuages and 40a. land in West Oldmixon, and 60a. land in Est Oldmixon, worth 10l., held of the said Thomas Newton, knt., and John Morgayn in right of their respective wives, as of the said manor of Westwode, service unknown.

Six messuages and 200a. land in Rollyston, or Rolleston, Wolferhill or Wolfarehull, and Pokerilston, or Pokerelston, 20a. land in Lockyng two messuages and 60a. land in Weston super Mare, Barton, and Shepham, and eight messuages and 140a. land in Wedmore and Cluer, whereof the lands in Wolfarehull, worth 13s. 4d., are held of the Bishop of Bath and Wells, as of the manor of Banwell, by free socage, viz. by service of fealty and by service of finding two men for a day to scour a weir beside Banwell called ‘Kinges Reyne’ when need shall be, for all service; the lands in Lockyng, Pokerelston, Rolleston, and Barton, worth 26s. 8d., are held of the said Prior and Convent of Worspring, as of the manor of Worspring, by fealty only, for all service; the land in Weston super Mare, worth 6s. 8d., is held of John Artour, esq., as of the manor of Weston, by fealty and 3s. rent yearly at Easter, for all service; land in Wedmore, worth 5s., is held of the Dean and Chapter of Wells, as of the manor of Wedmore, by fealty only, for all service; and lands in Cluer and Shepham, worth 13s. 4d., are held of Elizabeth Newton, widow, as of the manor of Cluer, service unknown.

Nine messuages and 200a. land in Uphill, worth 40s., held of Margaret, Countess of Richmund, as of the manor of Blakdon, by fealty only, for all service.

Two messuages in Axbrige, worth 6s. 8d., held of the Provost and Burgesses of Axbrigge, by free burgage.

Four messuages and 120a. land in Worle.

A messuage and 20a. land in Blakdon.





C. Series II. Vol. 11. (7.) E. Series II. File 894. (5.)



















PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















