HANDBOUND 
AT  THE 


UNIVERSITY  OF 
TORONTO  PRESS 


U^  f 


This  edition,  published  by  arrangement  with 
Messrs.  Archibald  Constable  and  Com- 
pany, Limited,  is  strictly  limited  to  650 
copies  for  Great  Britain  and  America,  of 
which  only  600  sets  are  for  sale,  and  are 
numbered  i  to  600. 


No 


THE    PASTON    LETTERS 

A.D.    I422-1509 


THE 

PASTON  LETTERS 

A.D.     I422-I509 

NEW    COMPLETE    LIBRARY    EDITION 

EDITED  WITH  NOTES  AND  AN  INTRODUCTION 

BY 

JAMES    GAIRDNER 

OF   THE    PUBLIC    RECORD   OFFICE 


VOLUME  VI  \^'^  ^^r^t>^ 


LONDON  2  EXETER 

.   CHATTO   &  WINDUS     T      JAMES   G.  COMMIN 

1904 


Edinburgh  :  T.  and  A.  Constable,  Printers  to  His  Majesty 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Edward  IV 

936 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  John  Paston^  Esquyer^  be  thys  lettre  delyveryd^  or  to  my 
mestresse^  hys  wyffe,  at  Norwychy  to  delyver  to  hym. 

BROTHER  John,  I  recomaund  me  to  yow,  and  I  thanke  1478 
God,  my  sustr  yowr  wyiFe,  and  yow,  off  my  fFayr  aug.  25 
nevywe  Crystofore,  whyche  I  undrestande  ye  have, 
wher  off  I  ame  ryght  gladde,  and  I  praye  God  sende  yow 
manye,  if  it  be  Hys  plesyr ;  nevertheless  ye  be  nott  kynde, 
that  ye  sende  me  no  wetyng  ther  off;  I  hadde  knowlege  by 
fFootemen,  or  ever  ye  kowde  iFynde  any  messenger  on  horsbak 
to  brynge  me  worde  therofF. 

Sir,  it  is  soo,  that  the  Duke  olF  Bokyngham  shall  come  on 
pilgrymage  to  Walsyngham,  and  so  to  Bokenham  Castell  to 
my  lady  hys  sustr ;  ^  and  then  it  is  supposyd  that  he  shalle  to 
my  Lady  off  Norffolk.^  And  myn  oncle  William  comythe 
with  hym  ;  and  he  telly th  me,  that  ther  is  like  to  be  troble  in 
the  maner  off  Oxenhed  ;  wherffor  I  praye  yow  take  hedde  lesse 
that  the  Duke  off  Suffolk  councell  pley  therwith  now  at  the 
vacacion  *  off  the  beneffyse,  as  they  ded  with  the  beneffice  off 

*  [From  Fenn,  ii.  270.] 

2  Joan,  sister  to  Henry,  Duke  of  Buckingham,  was  the  second  wife  of  Sir  William 
Knevet,  Knight,  of  Bokenham  Castle,  in  Norfolk. — F. 

3  Elizabeth,  widow  of  John  Mowbray,  Duke  of  Norfolk. — F. 

*  Agnes  Paston,  grandmother  to  Sir  John,  presented  Thomas  Everard  to  the 
Rectory  of  Oxnead  in  1475,  and  in  1479,  she  again  presented  William  Barthulmew, 
so  that  the  Duke  of  Suffolk  either  did  not  attempt  to  disturb  her  right  j  or  at  least  did 
not  succeed,  if  he  endeavoured  to  do  it. — F.  It  will  be  seen  by  No.  935  that  before 
presenting  William  Barthulmew  she  presented  Dr.  Richard  Lyncoln. 

VOL.  VI. A  I 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1478  Drayton,  whyche  by  the  helpe  off  Mr.  John  Salett  and  Donne 
AUG.  25  hys  man,  ther  was  a  qweste  made  by  the  seyde  Donne,  that 
fFownde  that  the  Duke  off  Suffolk  was  verrye  patrone,  whyche 
•  was  ffalse,  yitt  they  ded  it  ffor  an  evydence  ;  but  nowe  iff  any 
suche  pratte  scholde  be  laboryd,  it  is  I  hope  in  bettr  case,  ffor 
suche  a  thynge  most  needs  be  ffownde  byffor  Master  John 
Smyth,  whyche  is  owr  olde  ffreende  ;  wherffor  I  praye  yow 
labor  hym,  that,  iff  neede  bee,  he  maye  doo  use  a  ffreends  torne 
therin. 

Item,  bothe  ye  and  I  most  neds  take  thys  mater  as  owr 
owne,  and  it  weer  ffor  noon  other  cawse  butt  ffor  owr  goode 
grawnt  dames  sake ;  neverthelesse  ye  woote  well,  thatt  ther  is 
an  other  entresse  longyng  to  usse  afftr  her  dyscease ;  iffe  ther 
be  any  suche  thynge  begune  ther  by  suche  a  fryer  or  prest,  as 
it  is  seyde,  I  mervayle  that  ye  sente  me  no  worde  ther  off; 
butt  ye  have  nowe  wyffe  and  chyld,  and  so  moche  to  kar  ffor, 
thatt  ye  fforgete  me. 

As  for  tydyngs  her,  I  her  telle  that  my  cosyn  Sir  Robert 
Chamberleyn  hathe  entyrd  the  maner  of  Scolton  uppon  yowr 
bedffelawe  ^  Conyerse,  wheroff  ye  sende  me  no  worde. 

Item,  yonge  William  Brandon  is  in  warde  and  arestyd  ffor 
thatt  he  scholde  have  by  fforce  ravysshyd  and  swyvyd  an  olde 
jentyl woman,  and  yitt  was  nott  therwith  easyd,  butt  swyvyd 
hyr  oldest  dowtr,  and  than  wolde  have  swyvyd  the  other  sustr 
bothe;  wherffor  men  sey  ffowle  off  hym,  and  that  he  wolde 
ete  the  henne  and  alle  hyr  chekynnys ;  and  som  seye  that  the 
Kynge  entendyth  to  sitte  uppon  hym,  and  men  seye  he  is  lyke 
to  be  hangyd,  ffor  he  hathe  weddyd  a  wedowe. 

Item,  as  ffor  the  pagent  that  men  sey  that  the  Erie  off 
Oxenforde^  hathe  pleyid  atte  Hammys,  I  suppose  ye  have 
herde  theroff ;  itt  is  so  longe  agoo,  I  was  nott  in  thys  contre 
when  the  tydyngs  come,  therfor  I  sent  yow  no  worde  theroff. 

But  ffor  conclusion,  as  I  her  seye,  he  lyepe  the  wallys,  and 
wente  to  the  dyke,  and  in  to  the  dyke  to  the  chynne  ;   to 

*  A  word  at  this  time,  implying  a  friend,  or  intimate  acquaintance,  who  really 
slept  in  the  same  bed.     See  Steevens'  Shakspeare,  Henry  F.  Act  ii.  Sc.  2. — F. 

2  John  de  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford,  had  been  for  several  years  a  prisoner  in  the  Castle 
of  Hammes,  in  Picardy.  He  became  a  favourite  of  Henry  vii.  and  died  in  the  reigjn 
of  Henry  viii. — F. 

2 


EDWARD  IV 

whatt  entent  I  can  nott  telle;  some  sey,  to  stele  awey,  and     1478 
some  thynke  he  wolde  have  drownyd  hymselfFe,  and  so  it  is   aug.  25 
demyd. 

No  mor,  but  1  ame  nott  sertayne  whether  I  shall  come 
home  in  haste  or  nott. 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  daye  nexte  Seynt  Bartelmewe,^ 
anno  E.  iiij**  xviij°.  John  Paston,  K. 


937 

ABSTRACT  2 

William  Paston  to  Nicholas  Goldewell 

Spoke  to  him  on  Sunday  about  a  clerk  presented  by  William  Paston' s  ocT.  9 
mother  to  the  Church  of  Oxnead,  and  not  admitted,  though  the  presentation 
was  delivered  to  Master  John  Bulman,  my  lord's  deputy,  within  the  time 
limited  by  law.  Requests  him  to  get  the  Bishop  to  do  him  justice.  The 
living  is  of  small  value,  and  the  delay  can  be  of  little  benefit  to  my  lord. 
Desires  an  answer  by  the  bearer,  Sir  William  Upgate,  Vicar  of  Castre. 
Norwich,  9  Oct. 

[The  MS.  is  a  corrected  draft  partly  in  William  Paston's  own  hand,  endorsed 
*  The  copy  of  a  lettre  to  Mr.  Nicholas  Goldewell,  broder  to  the  Busshopp  of  Nor- 
wich, ix*>  Octobris,  anno  xvilj°  E.  iiij**,  by  Sir  William  Ubgate,  Vicar  of  Castre.'] 


938 


ABSTRACT  3 

William  Paston  to  William  Pope  of  Bacton 

Cannot  be  at  the  Court  at  Paston  on  Monday  next.     Bids  him  warn  the    OCT.  1 7 
tenants  to  keep  the  Court  on  Friday  instead,  and  to  bring  their  rents,  for  he  will 
be  there  himself.     He  is  also  to  warn  the  tenants  of  Bakton  to-morrow  openly 


^  St.  Bartholomew's  Day  is  the  24th  August.     *  The  day  next  St.  Bartholomew ' 
should  be  the  25th,  unless  the  writer  meant  to  say  *next  before.' 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

3  Ibid. 

3 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1478     in  the  church  of  the  said  Court  to  be  kept  on  Friday  next;  also  the  tenants  of 
OCT.  17    SwafFeld,  Mundesley,^  Edyngthorpe,  and  Wytton. 

Norwich,  Saturday  after  St.  Edward,^  the October. 

[The  MS.  is  a  draft  with  corrections  in  the  handwriting  of  William  Fasten,  en- 
dorsed— 'The  copy  of  a  lettre  to  William  Pope  of  Bacton,  the  xvij.  day  of  Octobre, 
anno  xviijo  E.  iiij^,  by  William  Dam  of  Rughton.'] 


939 

WILLIAM  PASTON,  JUNIOR,  TO  JOHN  PASTON  3 

'To  hys  worchepful  hrodyr^  John  Fastoriy  be  thy 5 
delyvered  in  hast, 

NOV.  7  T^  YGHT  reverent  and  worchepful  brodyr,  I  recomaunde 
r^  me  on  to  yow,  desyrynge  to  here  of  yowre  welfare 
•*■  ^  and  prosperite  ;  letynge  yow  wete  that  I  have  re- 
sevyd  of  Alwedyr  a  lettyr  and  a  nobyll  in  go  wide  therin. 
Ferthermor  my  creansyr  [creditor],  Mayster  Thomas,*  hertely 
recomandyd  hym  to  yow,  and  he  pray  the  yow  to  sende  hym 
sum  mony  for  my  comons ;  for  he  seythe  ye  be  xx**j.  in  hys 
dette,  for  a  monthe  was  to  pay  for  when  he  had  mony  laste. 

Also  I  beseche  yow  to  sende  me  a  hose  clothe,  one  for  the 
halydays  of  sum  colore,  and  a  nothyr  for  the  workyng  days, 
how  corse  so  ever  it  be  it  makyth  no  matyr ;  and  a  stomechere, 
and  ij.  schyrtes,  and  a  peyer  of  sclyppers.  And  if  it  lyke  yow 
that  I  may  come  with  Alwedyr  be  watyr,  and  sporte  me  with 
yow  at  London  a  day  or  ij.  thys  terme  tyme,  than  ye  may  let 
all  thys  be  tyl  the  tyme  that  I  come,  and  than  I  wol  telle  you 

1  This  name  is  very  ill  written,  and  looks  more  like  *  Maxsley '  j  but  Mundesley 
is  the  only  place  in  the  neighbourhood  that  seems  at  all  probable. 

2  Translation  of  St.  Edward  the  Confessor,  1 3th  October.  The  Saturday  after  it 
in  1478,  was  the  17th,  but  the  writer  has  left  only  a  blank  for  the  day. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  William  Paston,  the  writer  of  this  letter,  was  a 
younger  son  of  old  John  Paston,  and  brother  of  the  John  Paston  to  whom  the  letter  is 
addressed.  He  was  born,  as  Fenn  tells  us,  in  1459,  ^^^  i^  will  be  seen  by  what  is 
said  of  him  in  Letter  842  that  he  could  not  possibly  be  older.  He  was  now  at  Eton 
finishing  his  education,  and  we  have  a  letter  from  him  written  there  on  the  23rd  of 
February  1479,  which  gives  good  reason  for  attributing  this  to  the  November  im- 
mediately before. 

*  Thomas  Stevenson.     See  Letter  942  post. 


EDWARD  IV 

« 

when  I  schall  be  redy  to  come  from  Eton,  by  the  grace  of    1478 
God,  Whom  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng.  ^ov.  7 

Wretyn  the  Saturday  next  aftyr  All  Halown  Day,  with 
the  hand  of  your  brodyr, 

Wylliam  Paston. 


940 
ERRANDS  TO  MARLINGFORDi 

DO^  Gerald  of  Marlingford  come  to  me,  and  know  were  1479 
he  ys  become ;  in  qw[at]  place  he  hydyth  hym,  he  jan.  18 
dothe  but  distroyh  hym  selfF. 

Do  on  Steward  [of]  Colton,  a  tenaunte  of  Marlingford, 
come  to  me. 

Do  ^  Sir  John  Chapman,^  parson  of  Oure  Ladies  Chyrche, 
send  hider  the  bill  of  rekenyng  of  Richard  Hervy,  shewyng 
what  stokke  was  delivered  be  Richard  Hervy  to  Harry  Hervy, 
and  also  a  bille  what  costes  that  Richard  H[ervy]  .... 
of  at  that  tyme.* 

Do  ^  John  Brigg  come  to  me  and  bryng  me  suyrte  for  hys 
dette,  and  know  qwat  wey  the  parson  off  Melton  takyth  with 
hym. 

.  .  de  the  par[sone]  off  Melton  come  to  me  to  Nor- 
wych,  for  tell  [him  that]  and  he  come  nat  hastely  he  schall  nat 
fynd  me  here. 

Item,  pray  the  parson  off  Melton  to  call  up  on  the  parte- 
culer  tenauntes  off  Melton  that  have  had  parteculer  fermys 
fro  Michaelmas  xvij.  til  Michaelmas  xviij.  to  pay  ther  fermys. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.  B.M.]  This  is  a  paper  of  memoranda  by  William  Paston, 
partly  in  his  own  handwriting,  endorsed — *Erandes  to  Marlyngford,  the  xvij.  day  of 
Januar,  anno  xviij°,  wer  off  a  copy  was  delyvered  at  Sent  Edmundes  the  same  d[ay].' 

2  *  Do,'  i.e.  cause.  *  He  was  rector  of  St.  Mary's  Church,  Melton. 
*  This  paragraph  is  crossed  out  in  the  MS. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


FEB.  2 


WILLIAM  PYKENHAM  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  my  Mastresse  M[argaret  Paston\  att  Norwiche. 

1479  IV  fli^  worschypfuU  mastresse,  I  recomende  me  un  to  yow, 
W\  ^^^  thanke  yow  of  yowr  approvyd  ensewryd  gyude- 
nesse  evermore  shewde,  and  so  I  pray  yow  to  con- 
tenew.  I  have  resyvyd  yowr  letter,  and  undrestonde  yowr 
desyre,  wyche  ys  ageyns  the  lawe  for  three  causys.  Oon  ys, 
for  yowr  son  Watre  ys  nott  tonsewryd,  in  modre  tunge  callyd 
Benett ;  a  nodre  cause,  he  ys  not  xxiiij.  yeer  of  aghe,  wyche 
ys  requiryd  complete ;  the  thyrde,  ye  owte  [he  ought]  of  ryzte 
to  be  prey  St  within  dwelmothe  after  that  he  ys  parson,  wyth 
owte  so  were  he  hadd  a  dyspensacion  fro  Rome  be  owre  Holy 
Fadre  the  Pope,  wyche  I  am  certen  can  not  be  hadde.  Ther- 
for  I  present  not  yowr  desyre  un  to  my  lorde,^  lest  ye  [he] 
wolde  have  takyn  yt  to  a  dysplesur,  or  else  to  take  a  grete 
sympylnesse  in  yowr  desyre,  wyche  shulde  cause  hym,  in 
suche  matres  as  xall  fortune  yow  to  spede  with  hym  a  nodre 
tyme,  to  shew  un  to  yow  the  rigur  of  the  lawe,  wyche  I 
wolde  be  lothe ;  therfor  present  a  nodre  man  abyll.  Haske 
consell  of  Mr.  John  Smythe,  and  sease  of  yowr  desyre  in 
thysse  partey,  for  yt  ys  not  goodely  nether  Goddely  ;  and  lete 
not  yowr  desyre  be  knowyn,  aftyr  my  avyse.  Be  not  wrothe, 
thowe  I  sende  un  to  yow  thusse  playnyly  in  the  mat  re  ;  for  I 
wolde  ye  dede  as  wele  as  any  woman  in  Norfolke,  [that  ys, 
wyth  rygth],'  to  yowr  honor,  prosperite,  an  to  the  plesur  of 

^  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  Walter  Paston,  to  whom  this  letter  refers,  died  in 
August  1479.  This  letter  was  probably  written  in  the  beginning  of  the  same  year. 
The  date  certainly  cannot  be  1478,  if  No.  926  has  been  assigned  to  the  right  year,  for 
it  will  be  seen  that  the  writer  was  then  in  London,  and  so  much  occupied  that  he  had 
little  prospect  of  visiting  Norfolk  for  some  time. 

2  James  Goldwell  was  consecrated  by  Pope  Sextus  iv.  Bishop  of  Norwich  in 
1472.     He  resided  much  at  his  manor  of  Hoxne,  where  he  died  in  1498. — F. 

^  These  words  are  struck  through  with  the  pen. 

6 


EDWARD  IV 

Godde,  with  yowre  and  all  yowres,  Ho  have  yow  in  Hyse    1479 
blessyd  kepyng.  feb»  2 

From  Hoxne  on  Candylmasse  Day. 

William  Pykynham.^ 

I  sende  yow  yowr  presente  agen  in  the  boxe. 

942 

WILLIAM  PASTON,  JUNIOR,  TO  JOHN  P ASTON  2 

To  his  worchepfull  hroder^  John  Paston^  be  thys 
delyvered  in  hast, 

RYGHT  reverent  and  worchepfull  broder,  after  all  dewtes  feb.  23 
of  recomendacion,  I  recomaunde  me  to  yow,  desyryng 
to  here  of  your  prosperite  and  welfare,  whych  I  pray 
God  long  to  contynew  to  Hys  plesore,  and  to  your  herts 
desyr ;  letyng  yow  wete  that  I  receyved  a  letter  from  yow,  in 
the  whyche  letter  was  Yn]d.  with  the  whyche  I  schuld  bye  a 
peyer  of  slyppers. 

Ferthermor  certyfying  yow,  as  for  the  xiijj.  iiij^.  whyche 
ye  sende  by  a  jentylmannys  man,  for  my  borde,  cawlyd 
Thomas  Newton,  was  delyvered  to  myn  hostes,  and  soo  to 
my  creancer  [creditor^  Mr.  Thomas  Stevenson ;  and  he 
hertely  recomended  hym  to  yow. 

Also  ye  sende  me  worde  in  the  letter  of  xij//.  fyggs  and 
viij//.  reysons.     I  have  them  not  delyvered,  but  I  dowte  not  I 
shal  have,  for  Alwedyr  tolde  me  of  them,  and  he  seyde  that    * 
they  came  aftyr  in  an  other  barge. 

And  as  for  the  yong  jentylwoman,  I  wol  certyfye  yow  how 
I  fryste  felle  in  qweyntaince  with  hyr.  Hir  fFader  is  dede ; 
ther  be  ij.  systers  of  them  ;  the  elder  is  just  weddyd  ;  at  the 
whych  weddyng  I  was  with  myn  hostes,  and  also  desyryd  by 

1  William  de  Pykenham  became  Chancellor  of  Norwich  and  Archdeacon  of 
Suffolk  in  1 47 1,  and  was  also  some  time  Rector  of  Hadleigh  in  Suffolk,  where  he 
built  the  grand  gate  or  tower  before  the  parsonage.     He  died  in  1497. — F. 

*  [From  Fenn,  i.  296.]  This  letter  was  written  on  the  23rd  of  February,  and 
the  Monday  following  the  date  was  the  first  Monday  of  Lent.  These  particulars 
prove  the  letter  to  have  been  written  in  1479,  when  William  Paston  was  between 
nineteen  and  twenty  years  of  age. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1479  the  jentylman  hym  selfe,  cawlyd  Wylliam  Swanne,  whos  dwyll- 
FEB.  23    ynge  is  in  Eton. 

So  it  fortuned  that  myne  hostes  reportyd  on  me  odyrwyse 
than  I  was  wordy  ;  so  that  hyr  moder  comaundyd  hyr  to 
make  me  good  chere,  and  soo  in  good  feythe  sche  ded.  Sche 
is  not  a  bydynge  ther  sche  is  now ;  hyr  dwellyng  is  in  London ; 
but  hyr  moder  and  sch  come  to  a  place  of  hyrs  v.  myle  from 
Eton,  were  the  weddyng  was,  for  because  it  was  nye  to  the 
jentylman  whych  weddyd  hyr  dowtyr.  And  on  Monday  next 
comynge,  that  is  to  sey,  the  fyrst  Monday  of  Clene  Lente, 
hyr  moder  and  sche  wyl  goo  to  the  pardon  at  Schene,  and  soo 
for  the  to  London,  and  ther  to  abyde  in  a  place  of  hyrs  in  Bo  we 
Chyrche  Yerde  ;  and  if  it  plese  yow  to  inquere  of  hyr,  hyr 
modyrs  name  is  Mestres  Alborow,  the  name  of  the  dowtyr  is 
Margarete  Alborow,  the  age  of  hyr  is  be  all  lykelyod  xviij.  or 
xix.  yere  at  the  fertheste.  And  as  for  the  mony  and  plate, 
it  is  redy  when  soo  ever  sche  were  weddyd  ;  but  as  for  the 
lyvelod,  I  trow  not  tyll  after  hyr  modyrs  desese,  but  I  can  not 
telle  yow,  for  very  certeyn,  but  yow  may  know  by  inqueryng. 
And  as  for  hyr  bewte,  juge  yow  that  when  ye  see  hyr,  yf  so 
be  that  ye  take  the  laubore,  and  specialy  beolde  hyr  handys, 
for  and  if  it  be  as  it  is  tolde  me,  sche  is  dysposyd  to  be  thyke. 

And  as  for  my  comynge  from  Eton,  I  lake  no  thynge 
but  wersyfyynge,  whyche  I  troste  to  have  with  a  lytyll  con- 
tynuance. 

Quaeritur,  Quomodo  non  valet  hora,  valet  mora  ?  Unde 
dicitur  ? 

Arbore  jam  videas  exemplum.     Non  die  possunt, 
Omnia  suppleri ;  sed  tamen  ilia  mora.^ 

And  thes  too  verse  afore  seyde  be  of  myn  own  makyng. 

No  more  to  yow  at  thys  tyme,  but  God  have  yow  in  Hys 
kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  Eton  the  Even  of  Seynt  Matthy  the  Apostyll 
in  haste,  with  the  hande  of  your  broder. 

Wyll*m  Paston,  Jun^ 

1  I  am  favoured  by  Lady  Beatrice  Pretyman  with  a  facsimile  of  this  Latin  theme 
and  distich  from  the  original  MS.  My  reading  of  the  contracted  words  differs  from 
that  printed  originally  by  Fenn. 

8 


EDWARD  IV 

943 

PARSONAGE  OF  OXNEAD^ 

MEMORANDUM. — The  day  that  the  lapse  went  out,     1479 
which  is  such  day  vj.  monethes  as  the  seid  parson 
died,  was  on  Tewesday,  Our  Lady  Day,  the  Nativite, 
the  viij**  day  of  Septembre  last  past,  anno  xviij°. 

The  day  of  vj.  monethes  afFter  Our  seide  Lady  Day,  the 
Nativite  was  on  Seint  Mathes  Day^  the  Apostell,  last  past, 
whiche  was  the  xxiiij.  day  of  Februare,  and  so  I  deme  eyther 
the  Bisshoppe  of  Norwiche  hath  presented  or  els  it  is  in  the 
gifFt  of  my  Lord  Cardinall  ^  nowe.  Inquere  this  mater,  for  the 
Bisshoppe  of  Norwich  lythe  in  London,  and  shall  doo  till  Our 
Ladys  Day  this  Lenton,  as  it  is  said  here. 

My  moder  delivered  Sir  William  HoUe  his  presentacion 
the  xiij.  day  of  August,  anno  xviij°,  which  was  nere  a  monethe 
or  the  day  of  the  vj.  monethes  went  out  and  past.  Wherfore 
the  Bisshoppe  ought  to  present  my  moders  clarke.  Neverthe- 
lesse  the  Bisshoppys  officeres  aunsware  this  sayng,  that  if 
sondry  persones  deliver  ij.  sondrye  presentacions  for  to  diverse 
clarkes  to  the  Bisshoppes  officers  for  one  benefice,  that  then 
the  seid  partyes  shuld  sue  to  the  Bisshop  at  ther  cost  to  have 
out  an  inquerre  to  inquere  de  vero  patrono^  sayng  forther  more, 
that  if  they  sue  nat  out  this  inquerre  with  affect,  and  that  the 
lapse  fall,  than  it  is  lefuU  for  the  Bisshop  to  present,  and  it 
is  told  me  that  the  lawe  is  this,  that  the  Bisshoppe,  be  his 
office  with  out  any  sute  of  the  parties,  shall  call  an  inquerre 
afore  hym  to  inquere  de  vero  patrono^  and  he  shall  assign  them 
a  day  to  bryng  in  a  verdett,  and  he  shall  warne  bothe  partyes 
to  be  ther  at,  and  he  shall  amytte  his  clarke  that  is  founde 
patron. 

1  [Add.  Charter  17,251,  B.M.]  It  is  sufficiently  evident  that  the  date  of  this 
paper  must  be  later  than  the  24.th  February,  1479.  It  appears  to  be  a  set  of 
memoranda  or  instructions  by  William  Paston,  addressed  to  his  servant  Richard 
Lee.  The  MS,  is  a  small  roll  of  paper  very  mutilated  and  partly  illegible  from  the 
effect  of  damp. 

2  St.  Matthias'  Day  (not  St.  Matthew's)  is  meant. 
2  Thomas  Bourchier,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 

9 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1479  Yet  the  Bisshopp  useth  nat  to  do  this,  but  there  as  bothe 

partyes  that  present  are  myghty  [and  wher  as  he  thynketh  it 
were  a  jopardy  to  hym]  ^  to  sue  the  Bisshoppe  if  he  did  them 
any  wrong,  and  wher  as  ther  is  a  doubtable  mater  ;  but  in  this 
case  the  prest  that  troubleth  my  moder  is  but  a  simple  felowe, 
and  he  is  appostata,  for  he  was  somtyme  a  White  Frere,  and  of 
simple  repetacyon,  and  of  litill  substans,  as  my  moder  can  tell, 
wherfore  Bisshoppys  use  nat  in  suche  litill  casys  to  take  so 
streyte  an  inquerre,  and  specyally  wher  as  one  hath  contynued 
patron  with  out  interupcion  so  long  as  my  moder  hath  done, 
for  she  hath  contynued  more  than  1.  wynter  ;  wherfore  I  pray 
yow  shewe  my  cousyn  Lovell  this  bill,  and  fynde  some  meanes 
to  intrete  the  Bisshopp  by  the  meane  of  James  Hobard,^  which 
is  grete  with  the  Bisshopp,  and  is  nowe  Reder  of  Lyncoln  Inne 
this  Lent.     And  late  my  lady  speke  to  James  Hobard  in  the 

mater.    If  it  please  my  moder  ther  is  a  prest  callde  Sir ^ 

which  is  thought  by  the  tenauntes  of  Oxned  a  metely  man  to 
be  parson  ther;  the  most  thyng  that  I  dowte,  bicause  Sir 
William  Holle,  whom  my  moder  presented,  is  ronne  away, 
and  if  the  Bisshop  will  nat  present  my  moders  clarke  in  her 
title,  than  I  wold  that  the  labour  myght  be  made  to  the 
Bisshopp,  that  he  myght  present  my  moders  clarke,  suche  on 
as  shoe  will  name,  in  his  one  title. 

Ric.  Lee,  like  as  ze  may  understand  be  this  writing,  where 
as  I  understod  that  the  Bisshopp  myght  have  kept  the  benefice 
but  vj.  monethes  after  the  patrons  vj.  monethes  war  worn  out, 
now  I  understand  the  contrary,  for  I  understand  he  may  kepe 
it  a  twelmo[nethe]  and  a  day     ....     [several  lines  lost] 


Also,  if  ze  knew  any  yong  preste  in  London  that  setteth 
billis  upon  Powlys  dorr  per  aventure  wold  be  glad  to  have  it, 
and  woU  be  glad  also  to  serve  my  lady  and  my  moder  for  it 
for  a  season,  I  can  no  more  say  but  purvay  a  mean  to  the 
Bisshopp,  that  som  mon  may  be  put  in  by  my  moders  title. 

of  the  consistore  in  Norwich,  and  he  hath 

1  Crossed  out  in  MS. 

2  Afterwards  Attorney-General  to  Henry  vii.     He  was  Reader  of  Lincoln's  Inn 
in  Lent,  i8  Edward  iv. 

3  Blank  in  MS. 

10 


EDWARD  IV 

a  broder  in  the  Tower,  is  master  of  the  Mynt  under  Brice,     1479 
called  Bartilmew  Rede,  and  a  nother  broder  is  a  goold  smyth 

dwellyng  in  the  Chepe  Side  called ^  Reede.     And  he  is 

eyther  loged  with  on  of  these,  his  breder,  or  els  at  the  Jorge 
in  Lumbard  Strete,  or  els  at  the  Cok  and  the  Bell  at  Billinges 
gate,  a  brue  hous,  for  the  sei[d]  gold  smyth  hath  maried  a 
bruewyf,  and  kepeth  the  brue  hous,  (?)  and  he  can  good  skylle 
to  helpe  in  this  mater  of  the  benefice  of  Oxned. 

Also,  Ric.  Lee,  who  so  ever  shalbe  [presented  to  the] 
benefice  of  Oxned,  he  muste  tell  hym,  I  must  pay  xiiij.  marc 
to  the  frutes,  and  ther  for  shall  he  have  [da]yes  of  payment  to 
pay  a  marc  azey[n]  if  he  d[o]  gete  hym  frendschip.  And  also, 
Richard,  at  the  makyng  of  this  letter  I  mend  ( ?)  to  have  ben 

sure  (?) and  now  I   in  na 

for  if  it  please  my  moder,  me  thynke  it  was  well  done,  Sir 
William  Storor  had     .... 

[The  rest  unintelligible.'] 


944 

EDMUND  ALYARD  TO  MARGARET  PASTON2 

To  his  worshepful  mastres,  Mastres  Margaret  Paston. 

RIGHT  worshepful  mastres,  I  recommande  me  unto  yow  march  4 
as  lowly  as  I  kan,  thankyng  yow  for  your  goodnes  at 
all  tymis ;  God  graunt  me  to  deserve  it,  and  do  that 
may  plese  yow. 

As  for  your  son  Water,  his  labor  and  lernyng  hathe  be, 
and  is,  yn  the  Faculte  of  Art,  and  is  well  sped  there  yn,  and 
may  be  Bacheler  at  soche  tyme  as  shall  lyke  yow,  and  then  to 
go  to  lawe.     I  kan  thynk  it  to  his  preferryng,  but  it  is  not 

^  Blank  in  original. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  It  appears  by  subsequent  letters  that  Walter  Paston 
actually  took  a  degree  at  Oxford  at  Midsummer,  and  it  will  be  seen  by  next  letter, 
which  is  dated  by  its  endorsement,  that  he  must  have  done  so  in  1479 — ^^^  X^^r  of 
his  death. 

II 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1479  good  he  know  it  on  to  the  tyme  he  shal  chaunge  ;  and  as  I 
MARCH  4  conceyve  ther  shal  non  have  that  exibeshyon  to  the  Faculte  of 
Lawe.  Therfore  meve  ze  the  executores  that  at  soche  tyme  as 
he  shal  leve  it,  ye  may  put  a  nother  yn  his  place,  soche  as  shal 
lyke  you  to  prefer.  If  he  shal  go  to  law,  and  be  made  Bacheler 
of  Art  be  fore,  and  ye  woUe  have  hym  hom  this  yere,  then 
may  he  be  Bacheler  at  Mydsomor,  and  be  with  yow  yn  the 
vacacion,  and  go  to  lawe  at  Mihelmas.  Qwhat  it  shal  lyke 
yow  to  commande  me  yn  this  or  eny  odir,  ye  shal  have  myn 
service  redy. 

I  pray  yow  be  the  next  masenger  to  send  me  your  entent, 
that  swech  as  shal  be  necessary  may  be  purveyid  yn  seson. 
And  Jesu  preserve  yow.  i 

At  Oxinforth,  the  iiij.  day  of  March. 

Your  scoler, 

Edmund  Alyard. 


945 

WALTER  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  hys  ryth  reverend  broder^  Sir  John  Paston^  at  Caster 

Hally  in  Norfolk. 

viKH  22  A  FTER  all  dw  reverens  and  recomendacions,  likyth  yt 
A\  yow  to  understond  that  I  reseyvyd  a  letter  fro  my 
broder  John,  where  by  I  understod  that  my  moder 
and  yow  wold  know  what  the  costes  of  my  procedyng  schold 
be.  I  sent  a  letter  to  my  broder  John,  certyfyyng  my  costes, 
and  the  causys  why  that  I  wold  procede ;  but  as  I  have  sent 
word  to  my  moder,  I  purpose  to  tary  now  tyll  yt  be  Mychyl- 
mas,  for  yf  I  tary  tyll  than,  sum  of  my  costys  schall  be  payyd  ; 
for  I  supposed,  whan  that  I  sent  the  letter  to  my  broder  John, 
that  the  Qwenys  broder ^  schold  have  procedyd  at  Mydsomer, 
but  he  woU  tary  now  tyll  Michylmas  ;  but  as  I  send  word  to 

^  [From  Paston  MSS.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  endorsed  in  a  contemporary  hand, 
apparently  Sir  John  Paston's  own,  *  anno  xix®,'  showing  that  it  was  written  in  the 
nineteenth  year  of  Edward  iv. 

2  Lionel  Woodville,  afterwards  Bishop  of  Salisbury. 

12 


EDWARD  IV 

my  moder,  I  wold  be  Inceptor  be  fore  Mydsomer,  and  there  1479 
fore  I  besechyd  her  to  send  me  sum  mony,  for  yt  woU  be  sum  may  22 
cost  to  me,  but  not  mych. 

And,  syr,  I  besech  yow  to  send  me  word  what  answer  ye 
have  of  the  Buschopp  of  Wynchester  for  that  mater  whych  ye 
spak  to  hym  of  for  me  whan  I  was  with  yow  at  London.  I 
thowth  for  to  have  had  word  there  of  or  thys  tyme.  I  wold 
yt  wold  come,  for  owr  fyndyng  of  the  Buschopp  of  Norwych 
begynnyth  to  be  slake  in  payment.  And  yf  ye  know  not 
whath  thys  term  menyth,  *  Inceptor,'  Master  Edmund,  that 
was  my  rewler  at  Oxforth,  berar  here  of,  kan  tell  yow,  or  ellys 
any  oder  gradwat. 

Also  I  pray  yow  send  me  word  what  ys  do  with  the  hors  I 
left  at  Totnam,  and  whyder  the  man  be  content  that  I  had  yt 
of,  or  nat.  Jesu  preserve  yow  to  Hys  pleswre  and  to  yowr 
most  hartys  desyyr. 

Wretyn  at  Oxforth,  the  Saturday  next  after  Ascensyon  of 
Yowr  Lord. 

Walter  Paston. 


946 

WALTER  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  hys  ryth  trusty  and  hartyly  belovyd  broder,  John  Paston,  ahydyng 
at  the  George  at  Powlys  ^wharfcy  in  London,  be  this  letter 
delyveryd, 

RYGTH  worchypfull  and  hartyly  belovyd  broder,  I  June  30 
recomaund  me  on  to  yow,  desyeryng  feythfoly  to  here 
of  yowr  prosperyte,  qwhych  God  preserve,  thankyng 
yow  of  dyverse  letterys  that  yow  sent  me.  In  the  last  letter 
that  yow  sent  to  me,  ye  wryt  that  yow  schold  have  wryt  in  the 
letter  that  yow  sent  by  Master  Brown,  how  that  I  schold  send 
yow  word  what  tyme  that  I  schold  procede,  but  ther  was  non 
such  wrytyng  in  that  letter.     The  letter  is  yet  to  schew,  and 

*  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]     See  preliminary  note  to  Letter  944,  p.  11,  note  2. 

13 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1479    y^  yow  come  to  Oxon,  ye  schal  see  the  letter,  and  all  the  leterys 
JUNE  30  that  yow  sent  me  sythynnys  I  came  to  Oxon. 

And  also  Master  Brown  had  that  same  tyme  mysch  mony 
in  a  bage,  so  that  he  durst  nat  bryng  yt  with  hym,  and  that 
same  letter  was  in  that  same  bage,  and  he  had  for  gete  to  take 
owt  the  letter,  and  he  sent  all  to  geder  by  London,  so  that  yt 
was  the  next  day  after  that  I  was  maad  Bachyler  or  than  the 
letter  cam,  and  so  the  fawt  was  not  in  me. 

And  yf  ye  wyl  know  what  day  I  was  maad  Baschyler,  I 
was  maad  on  Fryday  was  sevynyth,  and  I  mad  my  fest  on  the 
Munday  after.  I  was  promysyd  venyson  a  gQyn  my  fest  of 
my  Lady  Harcort,  and  of  a  noder  man  to,  but  I  was  deseyvyd 
of  both  ;  but  my  gestes  hewld  them  plesyd  with  such  mete  as 
they  had,  blyssyd  be  God,  Hoo  have  yow  in  Hys  kepyng. 
Amen. 

Wretyn  at  Oxon,  on  the  Wedenys  day  next  after  Seynt 
Peter. 

W.  Paston. 

947 

ABSTRACT! 

JULY  7  Bill   witnessing   the   delivery  of  plate   by   Geoffrey   Hunt  on  behalf  of 

William  Paston  to  John  Davy  and  Alice,  his  wife,  late  wife  of  John  Gygges 
of  Burnham,  7  July,  19  Edw.  iv.  The  parcels  are  : — *  A  round  salt  covered, 
parcel  gilt  at  the  borders,  weighing  19  oz.  ij  qr.,  and  also  6  silver  spoons, 
square  sharp  knoppys,  weighing  5  oz.  3  qr.  i  dwt. ' ;  which  Davy  and  his  wife 
engage  to  keep  safely,  and  redeliver  to  William  Paston  or  Geoffrey  Hunt  before 
the  feast  of  St.  Faith  next  coming. 


[Two  seals, ^ 


948 


ABSTRACT  2 

William  Paston  to  Thomas  Lynsted 

JULY  1 1  Hears  that  he  has  felled  wood  and  firs,  etc.     *  Also  Jullis  hath  do  made 

saw  (?)  zattes.'     Desires  him  to  *  find  the  means  that  the  young  spring  may  be 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  2  j^f^^ 

14 


EDWARD  IV 

saved,  and  the  wood  fenced And  also  let  me  be  answered  both     1 47  Q 

for  the  old  payment  and  the  new  of  wood  sale.'  july  i  i 

II  July. 

P*S. — *  If  Jullis  have  made  a  gate,  it  is  the  better  for  the  spring,'  etc. 

[The  MS.  is  a  very  illegible  note  in  William  Paston's  hand,  written  on  a  small 

scrap  of  paper,  and  endorsed  *  A  letter  to  Thomas  Linsti[d],  the (blank)  day  of 

Julii,  anno  xix.  E.  iiij*'.'] 


949 

WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  HENRY  WARYNS^ 

HARRY  WARYNS,  I  grete  you  well,  and  I  thanke  july  19 
you  for  youre  labour.  And  as  for  the  tenauntez  of 
Knapton,  I  understand  by  youre  writing  that  they 
take  non  oder  consideration  to  my  sendyng  but  that  I  call  so 
fast  on  my  fee,  for  cause  they  thynke  that  I  am  aferd  lest  I 
shuld  have  it  no  longer  ;  and  as  for  that,  I  pray  yow  tell  them 
for  ther  ungentilnes  I  woll  have  my  fee  of  them,  and  in  that 
maner  and  in  non  oder  place  ;  and  ferthermor  I  shall  fynd  the 
mene  that  they  shall  paye  it  more  hastely  here  after.  And  as 
for  the  money  that  they  offyr  to  pay  at  the  fest  of  Advincula 
Sancti  Petri,  receyve  ye  it  off  them  and  I  shall  assign  one  to 
receyve  it  azen  of  yow.  As  for  the  delivere  of  the  catell,  I 
fele  be  zowr  wrytyng  they  will  non  sounar  pay  it  thow  ther 
catell  shuld  dye  ftbr  ffawte  off  mete.  Wer  for,  affor  the 
money  be  paid  I  putt  that  in  zour  discresseon  wheder  ze  will 
deliver  them  or  nay  ;  as  ze  do  I  hold  me  content. 

Also  as  for  Thomas  Child,  I  understand  be  zour  wrytyng 
he  will  not  scale  the  indenture  be  cawse  ther  is  no  some  of 
mony  sertayne  ne  days  of  payment  sett  in  the  indentur  ;  and 
as  for  that,  I  will  neyther  sett  some  nor  days  after  his  will ; 
and  if  he  will  nat  scale  that,  he  shall  never  scale  none  for  me  ; 
and  at  last  I  am  sure  he  shall  sell.  I  send  zow  azen  the  same 
indenture  that  ze  sent  me,  that  ze  may  kepe  it  still  as  long  as 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  133.]  The  year  of  this  letter  appears  by  the  endorsement. 
The  MS.  is  a  draft,  partly  in  a  clerk's  hand,  corrected  and  continued  in  that  of 
William  Paston  himself. 

15 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1479  Thomas  Chyld  abyde  now  at  Paston,  in  aventure  the  casse 
JULY  19  may  hap  that  he  will  sell  yt  herafter  ;  and  yfF  he  be  on 
departid,  than  send  me  both  the  indenture[s]  to  London  be 
some  massenger.  As  for  Waryn  Kynge,  wer  I  understand  be 
zour  wrytyn  that  he  seyth  he  delyver  me  all  evydens,  I  under- 
stand not  that  ;  and  as  for  rentall  I  am  sure  he  deliver  me 
none,  and  yfF  so  be  that  he  can  make  the  rentall  be  hart,  I 
wold  he  did  make  on  [^one'],  for  it  war  necessare  for  me  ;  for  I 
understand  be  zow  that  ther  was  no  rent  gaderid  this  xv.  ar 
xvj.  zer  for  defallte  off  a  rentall ;  and  therfor  yt  is  I  had  a  call 
on  the  prior  of  Bromholm  for  the  xxx.  comb  malt  that  ze  toke 
hym.     Wrytyn  at  Norton  the  xix.  day  of  Jull* 

By         W.  Paston. 

Endorsed  by  the  writer  : — 

*  A  letter  to  Harry  Waryns  the  xix  day  of  Jule,  A°  xix  E.  iiij"  by  John 
Ancell  off  Paston.' 


950 

WILL  OF  WALTER  PASTON  1 

AUG.  18  TN  Dei  nomine,  Amen.  Ego,  Walterus  Paston,  clericus, 
I  in  bona  et  sana  memoria  existens,  condo  testamentum 
"^  meum  apud  Norwicum  xviiij°  die  mensis  Augusti  in 
hunc  modum.  Inprimis  lego  animam  meam  Deo  Omni- 
potenti,  Beatae  Mariae  et  omnibus  Sanctis,  et  corpus  meum 
ad  sepeliendum  in  ecclesia  Sancti  Petri  de  Hundegate,  coram 
ymagine  Sancti  Johannis  Baptistae.  Item,  lego  summo  altari 
praefatae  ecclesiae,  iijj.  iiij^.  Item,  lego  reparacioni  ecclesiae 
supradictae,  ijj.  vj^.  Item,  Fratri  Johanni  Somerton,  bacha- 
laureo,  vs.  Item,  lego  Magistro  Edmundo  unam  togam 
penulatam  cum  manicis  de  mynkys.     Item,  lego  Roberto  Wulff 

unam  togam  viridem ^  cum  chamelet.     Item,  lego  Roberto 

Holand,   filio    spirituali,   togam    meam    curtam.      Item,  lego 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  It  will  be  seen  by  the  next  letter  that  Walter 
Paston  was  dead  before  the  21st  August  1479.  This  will  was  probably  drawn  up  on 
the  very  day  he  died,  or  just  before. 

2  Blank  in  MS. 

16 


EDWARD  IV 

Magistro  Roberto  Hollar  unam  togam  penulatam  cum  gray.  1479 
Item,  lego  Johanni  Parker  mantellum  meum  rubeum.  Item,  aug.  18 
lego  Magistro  Roberto  Hollere  unum  pulvinar  vocatum  le 
holstar.  Item,  lego  Magistro  Edmundo  Alyard  unum  pul- 
vinar. Item,  lego  Ricardo  Richardson  unam  togam  penulatam 
ad  manus  cum  menyver.  Item,  volo  quod  residuum  bonorum 
meorum  in  Oxonia  sit  ad  usum  Magistri  Edmundi  Alyard, 
sic  quod  solvat  .  .  .  }  Johanni  Skelton  et  Thomae  Coco. 
Item,  volo  quod  oves  meae,  quas  habet  Willelmus  Bataly 
senior  in  villa  de  Mawteby,  dividantur  equaliter  inter  fratrem 
meum  Edmundum  Paston,  et  sororem  meam  Annam  Yelver- 
ton,  et  sororem  meam  Margeriam  Paston,  uxorem  fratris  mei 
Johannis  Paston.  Item,  lego  terras  et  tenementa  manerij  mei 
de  Cressyngham,  si  possum  dare,  fratri  meo  Johanni  Paston 
armigero,  sibi  et  haeredibus  suis,  sub  condicione  ista,  quod  si 
contingat  fratrem  meum  praedictum,  Johannem  Paston,  esse 
hasredem  patris  mei,  quod  nullo  modo  habeat  terras  et  tene- 
menta praedicta,  sed  quod  frater  meus  Edmundus  Paston 
habeat  terras  et  tenementa  praedicta  sibi  et  suis  haeredibus. 
Residuum  vero  bonorum  non  legatorum  lego  et  do  disposicioni 
executorum  meorum,  ut  et  ipsi  fideliter  disponant  pro  anima 
mea. 

Hujus  autem  testament!  mei  executores  condo  per  prae- 
sentes,  fratrem  meum  Johannem  Paston,  armigerum,  pro  ista 
patria,  et  Magistrum  Edmundum  Alyard  pro  bonis  meis 
remanentibus  Oxoniae. 


WILLIAM  PASTON'S  PLATE  2 

THIS  indenture  made  the  xix.  day  of  August,  anno  xix°  aug.  19 
[witnesseth]  ^  that  I,  Richard  Lee,  have  delivered  to 
Mr.  John   Russhe  thes   parcellis  folowyng  of  plate 
[and]  *  of  silver  : — 

1  Here  occurs  a  short  word,  which  is  to  me  unintelligible.     It  seems  to  be  written 
*  p'uli.' 

2  [Add.  MS.  27,451,  f.  2,  B.M.] 

3  Omitted  in  MS.  *  Erased. 

VOL.  VI. B  17 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1479    First,  a  bason  and  an  ewer  with  iij.  combis  in  a  skochyn. 
AUG.  19  Item,  a  silver  potte. 

A  layer  of  silver,  parte  gilte  with  an  acorne  on  the  knoppe. 

A  gilte  stonding  couppe  ponsid  with  a  cover. 

A  chasid  pece  with  a  cover  aparte  gilte. 

ij.  playne  pecys. 

ij.  deppe  disshis. 

X.  sponys. 

A  white  playne  coppe  with  a  starre  in  the  botom  with  a  cover. 

A  standing  coppe  gilte  with  a  cover. 

A  candellstik  of  silver  with  a  sokette. 

A  trevett  of  silver. 

A  salt  of  silver  with  a  brokyn  cover. 

A  cover  for  a  playn  pece,  the  knoppe  gravid  with  armys. 

Richard  Lee. 

Endorsed — *  Plate  of  William  Paston  left  with  John  Russhe,  the  xiij.  day  of  Sept., 

a**  xix°.' 


[EDMUND  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  i] 

AUG.  2 1  ^2^  UER  dydynges  arn  com  to  Norwyche  that  my  grandam 
^N  is  dyssessyd,  whom  God  assoyle.  Myn  uncle  had  a 
^^  messenger  zesterday  that  she  shuld  not  escape,  and  this 
day  cam  a  nother  at  suche  tyme  as  we  were  at  masse  for  my 
brother  Water,  whom  God  assoyle  !  Myn  uncle  was  comyng 
to  have  offered,  but  the  last  messenger  retornyd  hym  hastely, 
so  that  he  toke  hys  hors  incontynent  to  enforme  more  of  owr 
hevynes.  My  syster  ys  delyverd,  and  the  chyld  passyd  to 
God,  Who  send  us  Hys  grace. 

Dokkyng  told  me  sekretly  that  for  any  hast  myn  uncle 
shuld  ryde  by  my  Lady  of  NorfFolk  to  have  a  iij.  skore 
persons,  whyther   it    is   to    convey   my   grandham   hyder  or 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  neither  signed  nor  addressed,  but  is 
in  the  handwriting  of  Edmund  Paston,  and  is  endorsed  by  John  Paston  the  younger, 
*  Dies  mortis  A.  P.' 

18 


EDWARD  IV 

nowght  he  cowde  not  sey  ;  I  deme  it  is  rather  to  put  them     i479 
in  possessyon  of  some  of  her  londes.  ^"°*  *' 

Wretyn  the  Saterdaye  the  xxi.  daye  of  August,  anno  E. 
iiij**  xix°. 

953 

ABSTRACT  1 

Manor  of  Marlingford 

Declaration  by  Robert  Mill,  John  Hobbes,  John  Claryngton,  Thomas  Aug.  26 
Davy,  John  Brygge,  John  Watyr,  and  William  Parson,  tenants  of  the  manor 
of  Marlyngford,  before  the  Abbot  of  St.  Benet's,  John  [RJadclyf  Fywater,^ 
Mr.  John  Smyth,  Robert  Ippeswell,  William  Lomnor,  John  Paston,  Esq., 
William  Yelverton,  senior,  John  Coke,  alderman,  William  Bastard,  gentleman, 
and  William  Fuller,  that  they  have  always  held  of  the  manor  in  the  name  of 
Agnes  Paston,  daughter,  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  Edmund  Bery,  Knt.,  and  in 
her  name  only,  till  Saturday  [21  Aug.]  before  St.  Bartholomew  Apostle, 
19  Edw.  IV.,  when  her  son,  William  Paston,  desired  them  to  attorn  to  him 
without  showing  writing  or  evidence. 

Done  in  the  parlour  of  John  Cooke,  26  Aug.,  19  Edw.  iv.  Signed: 
<  Thomas,  Abbot  of  Seynt  Benettes  of  Hulme.' — *J.  RadclyfF  Fytzwauter.' — 
«John  Smyth,  clerk.' — *  Robert  Ipeswell.' — <  Will.' Lomnor.' — <W.  Yelverton.' 
— *John  Cook.'— *  Will'm  Bastard.'— *  Will.  Fuller.' 


954 

MEMORANDA* 

MEMORANDUM,  uppon   the   presse   at   the   ferther     aug. 
ende  is  a  box  with  ij.  or  iij.  bondellis  with  evydence 
off  Oxenhed  and  Hawteyn. 
Memorandum,    that   ther   is   roUis   tytelyd    uppon   them 
*  Contra  Willelmum  Pas[ton],'  and  they  be  owther  uppon  the 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  John  RadclifF,  son  and  heir  of  Sir  John  RadclifF,  called  Lord  Fitzwalter  in 
No.  450  (vol.  ili.).  He  was  summoned  to  Parliament  as  Lord  Fitzwalter  in  the  first 
year  of  Henry  vii. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  These  memoranda  are  in  the  handwriting  of 
Sir  John  Paston.  From  the  inquiry  whether  Agnes  Paston  was  yet  buried  the  date 
is  evidently  in  August  1479. 

19 


1479 

AUG. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

presse,  or  on  the  cowntre,  or  on  the  shelffe  by  the  cowntre, 
or  ellys  in  the  cowntre  on  .  .  .  that  syde  next  the 
shelfFe. 

To  enquire,  ofF  myn,  oncle  William,  off  Jane,  off  my 
grauntd[ames]  wylle,  and  whoo  wrot  itt,  and  whether  she 
be  buried  or  noo,  and  who  were  present  at  hyr  wylle  makyng, 

and  iff  she  spoke owte  off  her  londes. 

Inquire — 

Off  the  Kynge, 

The  Chaunceler, 

Milorde  Chamberleyn, 

Sir  Thomas  Mongomere, 

Mi  Lorde  Cardynall, 

Master  Bele,  and  hys  clerke,  fFor  my  faderes  wille. 


955 

RICHARD  CALLE  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  i 

^479>  Plesith  it  your  mastresship  to  witte,  that  I  sende  you  a  boxe  with  evidence  of 

or        Baktons  londes,  weche  plesith  it  you  to  delyver  to  my  master,  Sir  John,  so 

earlier  ^^^^  ^  ^^^  ^^^^  "^^  money  that  is  behynde.  And  as  for  Sporle,  I  sende  you 
an  endenture  of  the  bercars  ^  and  iij.  obligacions  eche  of  v.  marke.  And  as 
for  any  endenture  of  the  wode  sale  I  made  non,  but  a  noote  breefely  of  the 
efFecte,  wech  I  sende  you,  as  I  tolde  my  mastre  at  Cristemas,  and  that  tyme 
he  seide  to  me  he  was  the  better  plesid,  and  so  I  ded  no  more  therto ;  and  an 
obligacion  of  C//.  weche  they  be  bounde  to  hym  to  performe  ther  ther  covi- 
nauntes ;  weche  remayneth  in  the  handes  of  the  veker  of  Sporle.  And  I  send 
you  also  ij.  billes  of  the  parcell  of  the  wode  sale,  bothe  the  wynter  sale  and 
the  somer  sale,  wherof  the  veker  of  Sporle  and  William  Halman  have  the  other 
parties  of  them,  as  he  comaunded  hym  selfe  at  the  begynnyng.  And  lete  my 
countrelle  doo  what  hym  liste.  I  fynd  hym  a  trewe  man  ;  he  dothe  as  he  hath 
reported  that  he  shuld  go  on  my  harond,  and  so  I  undrestond  from  the[]mj  he 
hath  do ;  but  thow  I  have  lost  a  frende  of  hym  in  that  quarter,  I  have  mo 
frendes  in  that  contre  the^nj  hee,  etc.     Mastres,  it  were  goode  to  remembre 


1  [From  Fasten  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  not  addressed,  but  seems  to  have  been 
intended  for  Margaret  Fasten.  The  date  is  net  very  material,  but  as  it  mentions  Sir 
John  Fasten,  it  cannot  be  later  than  1479,  the  year  in  which  he  died.  Ferhaps  it  is 
about  the  year  1472.     See  Nos.  819,  820. 

2  Barkers,  or  tanners  to  whom  the  bark  of  the  woods  had  been  sold. 

20 


EDWARD  IV 

your  stufFe  of  heryng  nough  this  fisshyng  tyme.     I  have  goten  me  a  frende  in      14*79, 
Lestoftot  to  helpe  to  purvey  me  of  an  vij.  or  viij.  barell,  and  shal  not  stonde        qj. 
me  upon  above  vj^.  viij^.  a  barell,  so  that  he  may  have  money  nough  in  the  ,. 

begynnyng,  ye  shal  do  more  nough  with  xb.  then  ye  shal  do  at  Cristemes  with 
V.  marke.  The  fisshyng  at  Yermouth  wol  not  be  so  goode  as  it  wolbe  at 
Leystoft,  for  the  haven  wol  not  prove  yette,  etc.  Almyghty  God  kepe  you. 
Wrete  this  daye. 

Be  your  servaunt,  R.C. 


SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

^0  the  ryght  worshypfull  mestresse^  Margret  Paston^ 
be  thys  delyveryd, 

PLEASE  it  yow  to  weet,  that  I  have  ben  heer  at  London  a  I479 
xiiij.  nyght,  wheroiF  the  ffyrst  iiij,  dayes  I  was  in  suche  ^^'  ^9 
iFeer  off  the  syknesse,  and  also  ffownde  my  chambr  and 
stuffe  nott  so  clene  as  I  demyd,  whyche  troblyd  me  soor ;  and 
as  I  tolde  yow  at  my  departyng,  I  was  nott  weell  monyed,  ffor  I 
hadde  nott  paste  x.  marke,  wheroff  I  departyd  xlj.  to  be 
delyveryd  off  my  olde  bedfelawe ;  and  then  I  rode  be  yonde 
Donstaple,  and  ther  spake  with  on  off  my  cheffe  witnessis, 
whyche  promysed  me  to  take  labor,  and  to  gete  me  wryghtyngs 
towchyng  thys  mater  bytwyen  me  and  the  Duke  of  Suffolk,^ 
and  I  rewardyd  hym  xxj. ;  and  then,  as  I  informyd  yow,  I 
payed  v.  marke  incontynent  uppon  my  comyng  hyddr  to 
replegge  owte  my  gowne  off  velwett  and  other  geer. 

And  then  I  hopyd  to  have  borowyd  some  off  Townesend, 
and  he  hath  ffoodyd  me^  fforthe  evyrsynys,  and  in  effecte  I 
cowde  have  at  the  most,  and  at  the  sonest  yisterdaye  xxs. 
wherffor  I  beseche  yow  to  purveye  me  Cs.  and  also  to  wryght 
to   Pekok,   that   he   purveye   me   as   moche,    Cs.    whyche    I 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  276.]  2  John  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  Suffolk.— F. 

3  Fenn  reads  '  ffoodyd  ne,'  and  in  the  modem  copy  *  fooded  not  forth/  of  which 
some  fanciful  explanations  are  suggested  in  a  footnote.  The  true  reading  ought 
certainly  to  be  *  me '  and  not  *  ne,'  the  meaning  evidently  being  *  he  has  put  me  off 
ever  since.'  *  To  fode  out  with  words '  is  an  expression  which,  as  Halliwell  informs 
us,  occurs  in  Skelton,  Harrington,  etc. 

21 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

^479    supose  that  he  hathe  gaddryd  at  Paston  and  other  places,  by 
OCT.  29   ^j^y,g  tyme  ;  fFor  with  owte  I  have  thys  x//.,  as  God  helpe  me, 
I  ffer  I  shalle  doo  butt  litell  goode  in  noo  mater,  nor  yitt  I 
woote  nott  howe  to  come  home,  but  iff  I  have  it. 

This  geer  hathe  troblyd  me  so,  that  itt  hathe  made  me 
moor  than  halffe  seke,  as  God  helpe  me. 

Item,  I  undrestande  that  myn  oncle  William  hathe  made 
labor  to  th*  Exchetor,  and  that  he  hathe  bothe  a  wrytte  off 
essend.  clowsyth  extr. ;  and  also  a  supercedeas.  I  have  wretyn 
to  the  Exchetor  ther  in  off  myn  entent,  iff  myn  oncle  hadde 
hys  wyll  in  that,  yitt  sholde  he  be  never  the  nerre  the  londe, 
butt  in  effecte  he  shold  have  thys  advantage,  whyche  is 
behovefuU  ffor  a  weyke  mater  to  have  a  colour,  or  a  clooke, 
or  a  botrase. 

But  on  Tywesdaye  I  was  with  the  Bysshop  off  Hely,^ 
whyche  shewyth  hymselffe  goode  and  worshypfull ;  and  he 
seyde  that  he  sholde  sende  to  myn  oncle  William,  that  he 
sholde  nott  procede  in  no  suche  mater,  till  that  he  speke  with 
hym  ;  and  moor  ovyr  that  he  sholde  cawsc  hym  to  be  heer 
hastelye  ;  in  whyche  mater  is  no  remedy  as  nowe,  but  iff  it 
wer  soo,  that  the  Exchetor,  iff  he  be  entretyd  to  sytte  by  myn 
oncle  William,  whyche  percase  he  shall  nott,  that  iff  my  brother 
John  and  Lomnor  have  knowleche  off  the  daye,  and  they 
myght  be  ther;  Lomnor  can  geve  evydence  i  now  in  that 
mater  with  owte  the  boke  ;  and  mor  ovyr  that  they  see  bothe 
the  letter  and  the  other  noote,  that  I  sente  to  the  Exchetor, 
and  with  helpe  off  the  Exchetor  all  myght  be  as  beste  is  ;  and 
iff  my  brother  and  Lomnor  take  labor  her  in,  I  shal  recompence 
ther  costs. 

Wretyn  in  haste  with  schort  advisement  on  the  Frydaye 
next  Seynt  Symonds  and  Jude,  anno  E.  iiij*'  xix°. 

Late  my  brother  John  se  thys  bille,  for  he  knoweth  mor 
off  thys  mater. 

John  Paston,  K. 

*  John  Morton,  afterwards  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  Cardinal. 


22 


EDWARD  IV 


957 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  Syr  John  Paslon,  Knyght, 

SYR,  aftyr  all  dwtes  of  recomendacyon,  pleasyt  to  undyr-  ^479 
stand,  that,  acordyng  to  your  lettre  sent  me  by  Wyllson,  ^^^'  ^ 
Lomnore  and  I  mett  at  Norwyche  and  drew  ought  a 
formable  bylle  ought  of  your,  and  send  it  ayen  to  th'Exchetore 
Palmer  by  my  brodyr  Edmund,  whyche  had  an  other  erand  in 
to  that  contre  to  spek  with  H.  Spylman,  to  get  hys  good  wyll 
towardes  the  bargayn  lyek  to  be  fynyshed  hastyly  betwyx 
Mastres  Clyppysby  and  hym.  And,  syr,  at  the  delyvere  of 
the  bylle  of  inquisicyon  to  th*Exchetour,  my  brodyr  Edmund 
told  hym  that  accordyng  to  your  wryghtyng  to  me,  I  spak 
with  myn  oncle  William,  and  told  hym  that  I  undyrstood  by 
yow  that  my  Lord  of  Elye  had  aswell  desyred  hym  in  wryght- 
yng as  you  by  mouthe,  that  non  of  you  shold  swe  to  have  the 
inquisycion  fond  aftyr  your  intentys  tyll  other  weyes  of  pese 
wer  takyn  betwyx  you  ;  wherfor  my  brodyr  Edmund  desyred 
hym  that  with  ought  myn  oncle  labord  to  have  it  fond  for 
hym,  ellys  that  he  shold  not  procede  for  yow ;  but  th'Exchetour 
answerd  hym  that  he  wold  fynd  it  for  you,  aftyr  your  byll,  of 
hys  owne  autorite  ;  and  so  it  was  fond.  But,  syr,  ye  must 
remembre  that  my  Lord  of  Ely  desyred  myn  oncle  as  well  as 
you  to  surcease,  as  I  put  myn  oncle  in  knowlage,  and  myn 
oncle  at  the  fyrst  agreid  that  he  wold  make  no  more  sute  a 
bought  it,  in  trust  that  ye  wold  do  the  same,  acordyng  to  my 
Lord  of  Elys  desyer  ;  wherfor  ye  had  ned  to  be  ware  that 
th'Exchetor  skyppe  not  from  you,  when  he  comyth  to  London, 
and  sertyfye  it,  or  ye  spek  with  hym.  Th'Exchetor  shalbe  at 
London  by  Twysdaye  or  Wednysday  next  comyng,  at  John 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  It  will  be  seen  from  the  contents  that  this  letter 
must  have  been  written  after  the  receipt  of  the  last,  or  of  one  to  the  same  effect 
addressed  to  John  Paston. 


NOV. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1479    Leeis  house,  for  he  shall  ryd  forwardys  as  on  Monday  next 
^    comyng  be  tymys,  &c. 

Syr,  your  tenauntes  at  Crowmer  sey  that  they  know  not 
who  shalbe  ther  lord  ;  they  marvayll  that  ye  nor  no  man  for 
yow  hathe  not  yet  ben  there.  Also,  when  1  was  with  myn 
oncle,  I  had  a  longe  pystyll  of  hym,  that  ye  had  sent  Pekok  to 
Paston,  and  comandyd  the  tenauntes  ther  that  they  shold  pay 
non  areragys  to  hym,  but  if  [unless]  they  wer  bond  to  hym  by 
obligacyon  for  the  same  ;  myn  oncle  seythe  it  was  other  wyse 
apoyntyd  be  for  the  arbytrorys;  they  thought,  he  seythe,  as 
well  my  Mastyr  Fytzwalter  as  other,  that  he  shold  receyve 
that  as  it  myght  be  gadryd ;  but  now  he  seythe,  that  he 
wottyth  well  some  shall  renne  away,  and  some  shall  wast  it,  so 
that  it  is  nevyr  lyek  to  be  gadryd,  but  lost,  and  so  L  trow  it  is 
lyek  to  be  of  some  of  the  dettors,  what  for  casuelte  of  dethe 
and  thes  other  causes  befor  rehersyd  ;  wherfor  me  thynkyth  if 
it  were  apoyntyd  befor  the  arbytrors  that  he  shold  receyve 
theym,  as  he  seythe,  it  wer  not  for  you  to  brek  it,  or  ellys  if 
he  be  pleyn  executor  to  my  grauntdam,  then  also  he  ought  to 
have  it.  I  spek  lyek  a  blynd  man,  do  ye  as  ye  thynk,  for  I  was 
at  no  syche  apoyntment  befor  th'arbytrors,  nor  I  know  not 
whethyr  he  is  executor  to  my  grauntdam  or  not,  but  by  hys 
sey  in  g. 

Also,  syr,  ye  must  of  ryght,  consyderyng  my  brodyr 
Edmundys  diligence  in  your  maters,  sythe  your  departyng, 
helpe  hym  forwardys  to  myn  oncle  Syr  George  Brown,  as  my 
brodyr  Edmund  preyid  yow  in  hys  lettyr  that  he  sent  on  to 
yow  by  Mondys  sone  of  Norwyche,  dwellyng  with  Thomas 
Jenney,  that  myn  oncle  Syr  George  may  gett  to  my  brodyr 
Edmund  of  the  Kyng  the  wardshepp  of  John  Clyppysby,  son 
and  heyer  to  John  Clyppysby,^  late  of  Owby,  in  the  conte  of 
NorjfFolk,  Sqwyr,  dwryng  the  nonnage  of  my  Lord  and  Lady  of 
York,^  thow  it  cost  iiij.  or  v.  mark  the  swte.     Let  myn  oncle 

1  The  writer  probably  intended  to  say  '  son  and  heir  to  William  CHppesby,'  who 
died  about  this  time.  His  widow  Catherine,  the  daughter  of  John  Spelman,  Esq.,  of 
Stow  Bekerton,  soon  afterwards  married  Edmund  Paston. 

2  Richard,  Duke  of  York,  son  of  Edward  iv.,  at  this  time  a  child  of  seven  years 
old,  and  Anne  Mowbray,  daughter  of  the  late  Duke  of  Norfolk,  to  whom  he  was 
married  in  14.78. 

24 


EDWARD  IV 

Syr  George  be  clerk  of  the  haniper,  and  kepe  the  patent,  if  it  1479 
be  grantyd,  tyll  he  have  hys  mone,  and  that  shall  not  be  nov.  6 
longe  to. 

Myn  oncle  Syr  George  may  enforme  the  Kyng  for  trowthe, 
that  the  chyld  shall  have  no  lond  duryng  hys  yong  modyrs 
lyff,  and  ther  is  no  man  her  that  wyll  mary  with  hym  withought 
they  have  some  lond  with  hym,  and  so  the  gyft  shall  not  be 
gret  that  the  Kyng  shold  geve  hym  ;  and  yet  I  trow  he  shold 
get  the  modyr  by  that  meane,  and  in  my  conseyt  the  Kyng 
dothe  but  ryght  if  he  graunt  my  brodyr  Edmund  Clyppysbys 
son  in  recompense  for  takyng  my  brodyr  Edmundes  son, 
otherwyse  callyd  Dyxsons,  the  chyldys  fadyr  being  alyve. 
Dyxson  is  ded,  God  have  hys  sowle.  Whom  I  beseche  to  send 
you  vour  most  desyred  joye. 

Wretyn  at  Norwyche,  on  Seynt  Leonardes  Day. 

J.  Paston. 

Syr,  it  is  told  me  that  Nycolas  Barlee,  the  Scyuer,  hathe 
takyn  an  axion  of  dett  ayenst  me  thys  terme.  I  prey  yow  let 
Whetley  or  some  body  spek  with  hym,  and  lete  hym  wet  that 
if  he  swe  me  softly  thys  terme,  that  he  shall  be  payed  or  the 
nexte  terme  be  at  an  end.  It  is  a  bought  vj//.,  and  in  feythe 
he  shold  have  had  it  or  thys  tyme,  and  our  threshers  of 
Sweynsthorp  had  not  dyed  upp  ;  and  if  I  myght  have  payed  it 
hym  a  yer  ago,  as  well  as  I  trust  I  shall  sone  aftyr  Crystmass, 
I  wold  not  for  xij//.  have  brokyn  hym  so  many  promessys  as  I 
have. 

Also,  syr,  1  prey  yow  send  me  by  the  next  man  that 
comyth  fro  London  ij.  pottys  of  tryacle  of  Jenne, — they  shall 
cost  xvj^., — for  I  have  spent  ought  that  I  had  with  my  yong 
wyf,  and  my  yong  folkys,  and  my  syliF,  and  I  shall  pay  hym 
that  shall  bryng  hem  to  me,  and  for  hys  caryage.  I  pray  you 
lett  it  be  sped. 

The  pepyll  dyeth  sore  in  Norwyche,  and  specyally  abought 
my  house,  but  my  wyjfF  and  my  women  come  not  ought,  and 
fie  ferther  we  can  not ;  for  at  Sweynsthorpe,  sythe  my  depart- 
yng  thens,  they  have  dyed,  and  ben  syke  nye  in  every  house 
of  the  towne. 

25 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


958 

WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  ROBERT  WALSH  1 

1479  ^\7^ET  wold  I  tary,  all  be  yt  I  have  taryd  your  comyg  this 
NOV.  22  1  halff  yer,  for  I  deme  her  suche  men  as  schall  well 
undyrstond  myn  titill  good ;  yfF  any  man  have  good 
tytyll  I  am  suyr  that  myn  is  gode.  I  dar  well  juperde  to  take 
a  dystres,  wedyr  they  come  or  nat,  and  so  I  wyll  ze  know. 
Wer  for,  in  so  much  as  I  left  myn  distress  for  iowr  dysyr,  so 
that  I  be  answerid  off  myn  mony  acordyng  to  myn  ryth,  ar 
else  send  me  answer,  one  ar  oder  \_one  or  other],  and  lett  me 
take  the  avantage  that  the  Kynge  lawys  will  zeff  me  be 
dy stress  qweche  I  have  delayed,  me  thynk  to  long,  for  any 
thank  that  I  have. 

Wretyn  at  Norwich,  the  xxij.  Novembre. 


959 

JULLYE  TO  HIS  FATHER  2 

NOV.  Well  beloved  fader,  my  master  prayed  you  that  ye  will  sende  knowlach  be 

my  broder  as  sone  as  these  men  be  come  to  Knapton,  and  that  ye  may  laye  a 
weche  to  knowe  ho  sone  they  be  come,  and  sende  me  be  your  sone  ar  else  be 
some  other  trusty  man  ;  and  I  have  take  your  son  a  grote  for  his  laubour.  And 
do  this  in  hast ;  for  wheder  they  com  or  nat  I  wille  take  a  distresse  ther,  and 
thatt  will  abide  ^  till  I  knowe  the  dealing  of  them  this  ij.  ar  iij.  dayes  for  to 
know  wheder  they  wille  come  or  nat,  and  ther  after  shall  I  be  demeaned. 

Endorsed  in  William  Pastons  hand — A   letter   fro  *  JuHye,  dark  of  Sent 

Edmundes,  to  his  fadyr,  to  North  Walsham,  the  ^  day  Novembr',  anno  xix. 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  or  fragment  of  a  letter  is  a  corrected 
draft  in  William  Paston's  hand,  and  is  endorsed  by  him: — *A  letter  to  Roberd 
"Walsche  of  Colby,  the day  off  Novembre,  anno  xix."" 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

3  '  Wer  I  lothe '  has  been  crossed  through,  and  '  thatt  will  abide '  written  over. 
*  Blanks  in  mss. 

26 


EDWARD  IV 


960 

MANOR  OF  KNAPTONi 

Mr.  Thomas  Pasche  of  Wynsowr  toke  the  astate  and  retorne  to  the  Dean 
and  Colage  of  Wynsowr  infra  Castrum. 

And  one  2  Holme,  atornay  off  corte,  is  recognis  (?)  and  was  at  stat 

takyn.  ^ 

Robert  Walsch  off  Colby  j.  myl.  et  di*  fro  Blyklyng  is  steward. 
Here  folow  revys  of  Knapton  : — 

Fro  M.  xvij.  till  xviij°,  Martyn  Smyth. 

F[ro]  M.  xviij.  till  xix",  Roberd  Fraunk  (?),  his  place  bonde. 

Fro  M.  xix.  till  xx°,  Thomas  Frank,  his  place  fre. 


961 

CRESSINGHAM  MANORS 

ECEYVED   at   Cressingham,  the  Thirsday  nex  aftyr    1479 
Seynt   Edmund  *   at   the   corte  ther  v//.   xj.   by  the   nov.  25 
handes  of  me,  John  Paston,  Sqwyer. 
Wherof  payed  to  my  modyr  for  costys  don 
up  on  the  berying  of  Walter  Paston,  and 
whyll  he  lay  sek,  and  for  the  hyer  of  a 
man  comyng  with   the  seyd  Water  fro 

Oxenford  xx^. xxixj.    xj^. 

Item,  payed  to  William  Gybson  for  j.  horse 
sadyll  and  brydyll  lent  to  Water  Paston 

by  the  seyd  William, xvjs. 

Item,  gevyn  the  seyd  man  comyng  fro  Oxen- 
ford  with  the  seyd  Water  by  the  handys 
of  J.  Paston, xx^. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  is  a  paper  of  memoranda  in  the  handwriting 
of  William  Paston,  endorsed  *  A  mater  tochyng  Knapton  for  my  fee.' 

2  Blank  in  ms. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  paper  is  in  the  handwriting  of  John  Paston 
the  younger.  The  reference  to  the  burial  of  Walter  Paston  proves  it  to  be  of  the 
year  14.79. 

*  St.  Edmund's  Day  is  the  20th  November.  The  Thursday  after  it  in  1479  was 
the  25th. 

27 


R 


THE  P ASTON  LETTERS 

1479  Item,  payed  for  dyvers  thynges  whyll  Water 

NOV.  25  Paston  lay  sek, iiij^. 

Item,  for  the  costes  of  John  Paston  rydyng 
to  kepe  the  coort  at  Cressingham,  anno 
supradicto,  whych  was  iiij.  dayes  in  doing, 
for  the  styward  mygh  not  be  ther  at  the 
day  prefyxid, iijj.    iiij^. 

962 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  1 

To  my  ryght  worchepfull  modyr^  Margaret  Paston,  at  Seynt 

Peter  of  Hundgate. 

NOV.       I  ^  YGHT  worchepfull  modyr,  aftyr  all  dwtes  of  humble 
r^      recomendacyon,  as  lowly  as  I  can,  I  beseche  yow  of 
•^  your   dayly   blyssyng   and   preyeres.      And,    moder, 

John  Clement,  berer  herofF,  can  tell  yow,  the  mor  pite  is,  if 
it  pleasyd  God,  that  my  brodyr  is  beryed  in  the  Whyghte 
Fryers  at  London  ;  whych  I  thought  shold  not  have  ben,  for  I 
supposyd  that  he  wold  have  ben  beryed  at  Bromholme,  and 
that  causyd  me  so  sone  to  ryd  to  London  to  have  purveyd 
hys  brynging  hom,  and  if  it  had  ben  hys  wylle  to  have  leyn  at 
Bromholm,  I  had  purposyd  all  the  wey  as  I  have  redyn  to 
have  brought  hom  my  grauntdame  ^  and  hym  to  gedyrs  ;  but 
that  purpose  is  voyd  as  now.  But  thys  I  thynke  to  do  when 
I  com  to  London  to  spek  with  my  Lord  Chamber  ley  n,^  and  to 
Wynne  by  hys  meanys  my  Lord  of  Ely,*  if  I  can ;  and  if  I 
may  by  eny  of  ther  meanys  cause  the  Kyng  to  take  my 
servyse  and  my  quarrell  to  gedyrs,  I  wyll,  and  I  thynk  that 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  280.]  Sir  John  Paston  died  in  London  on  the  15th  November 
1479,  as  Fenn  informs  us.  I  presume  he  had  some  authority  for  the  precise  date, 
which  I  have  not  seen.  The  inquisition  post  mortem  is  not  now  to  be  found  j  but  the 
writ  to  the  Escheator  still  exists,  and  is  dated  30  Nov.,  19  Edw.  iv.  This  letter  refers 
not  only  to  the  burial  of  Sir  John  Paston,  but  also  to  the  death  of  his  grandmother 
Agnes.     The  year  was  one  of  great  mortality. 

2  Agnes,  widow  of  William  Paston  the  Judge. 

3  William,  Lord  Hastings. 

*  John  Morton,  afterwards  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  Cardinal,  etc. 

28 


EDWARD  IV 

Sir  George  Brown,  Sir  Jamys  RadclyfF,  and  other  of  myn  1479 
aqueyntance,  whyche  wayte  most  upon  the  Kyng,  and  lye  nov. 
nyghtly  in  hys  chamber,  wyll  put  to  ther  good  wyllys.  Thys 
is  my  wey  as  yet.  And,  modyr,  I  beseche  yow,  as  ye  may 
get  or  send  eny  messengers,,  to  send  me  yowr  avyse  and  my 
cosyn  Lomeners  to  John  Leeis  hows,  taylere,  with  in  Lud- 
gate.  I  have  myche  more  to  wryght,  but  myn  empty  hed 
wyll  not  let  me  remembre  it. 

Also,  modyr,  I  prey  that  my  brodyr  Edmond  may  ryd  to 
Marlyngforthe,  Oxenhed,  Paston,  Crowmer,  and  Caster,  and 
all  thes  maners  to  entre  in  my  name,  and  to  lete  the  tenants  of 
Oxenhed  and  Marlyngfor  know  that  I  sent  no  word  to  hym 
to  take  no  mony  of  theym  but  ther  attornement ;  wherfor  he 
wyll  not,  tyll  he  her  fro  me  ayen,  axe  hem  non,  but  lete  hym 
comand  theym  to  pay  to  servaunts  of  myn  oncles,  nor  to  hym- 
sylfF,  nor  to  non  othyr  to  hys  use,  in  peyne  of  payment  ayen 
to  me.  I  thynk  if  ther  shold  be  eny  money  axid  in  my  name, 
peraventure  it  wold  make  my  Lady  of  Norfolk  ayenst  me,  and 
cause  hyr  to  thynk  Tdellt  more  contrary  to  hyr  plesure  than 
dyd  my  brodyr,  whom  God  pardon  of  Hys  gret  mercy.  I 
have  sent  to  entre  at  Stansted  and  at  Orwellbery,  and  I  have 
wretyn  a  bylle  to  Anne  Montgomery  and  Jane  Rodon  to 
make  my  Lady  of  NorfFolk,  if  it  wyll  be. 

Your  sone  and  humble  servaunt, 

J.  Paston. 

WILLIAM  LOMNOR  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 
To  the  ryght  worchypfull  John  Paston^  Squyer^  yn  haste. 

MY  Master  Paston,  I  recomaunde  me  to  yow,  preyyng   nov.  28 
God  to  have  mercy  on   my  master   your  brother 
sowle,  to  whom  ye  ar  heyre,  and  also  to  my  mastras 
your  grauntdam.     Wherfore  be  th'avyse  of  my  mastras  your 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     It  is  apparent  from  the  contents  that  this  letter  was 
written  shortly  after  the  decease  of  Sir  John  Paston  in  November  1479. 

29 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1479  earful  moder,  your  brothere  Edmund,  on  Sunday  next  before 
NOV.  28  Sent  Andrew,  rod  to  Marly ngforth,  and  before  alle  the 
tenauntez,  examynid  on  James,  kepere  ther  for  Will.  Paston, 
where  he  was  the  weke  next  before  Sent  Andrew,  and  there 
he  seyd  that  he  was  not  at  Marlingforth  from  the  Monday 
unto  the  Thorday  at  evyn,  and  soo  there  was  no  man  there 
but  your  brothers  man  at  the  tyme  of  his  decese ;  so  be  that 
your  brothere  dyyd  sesid,  and  your  brothere  E.  bad  your  man 
kepe  possession  to  your  behoffe,  and  warned  the  tenauntez  to 
pay  noo  man,  til  ye  hadde  spoke  them.  So  mesemyth  that 
ys  a  remyttir  to  your  old  taylyd  titell ;  comon  with  your  con- 
cell.  Forther,  at  afternoon  he  was  at  Oxned  to  understande 
how  they  had  doo,  and  Peris  kepyd  your  brotheres  possession 
at  that  tyme ;  and  your  oncle  his  man  was  not  there,  but  he 
assyned  anothere  pore  man  to  be  ther.  Whethere  that  con- 
tynuid  the  possession  of  W.  Paston  or  not  be  remembrid,  &c. 
And  after  the  decese,  &c.,  W.  Paston  sent  the  man  that 
kepyd  possession  to  fore  to  entre  and  kepe  possession,  wheche 
was  noo  warent  be  tha  poyntment,  for  ye  stande  at  your  liberte 
as  for  ony  apoyntment  or  comunycacion  hadde  before,  and 
soo  men  seme  it  wer  good  for  yow  to  stande  at  large  til  ye 
here  more ;  yf  ye  myght  have  my  Lord  Chamberleyns  good 
faver  and  lordship,  it  were  ryght  expedyent.  As  for  my 
Lord  of  Ely,  dele  not  wyth  hym  be  owr  avyse,  for  he  woll 
move  for  trete,  and  elles  be  displesid.  Your  brother  Edmund 
sent  to  John  Wymond,  and  he  sent  word  he  woUe  be  a  mene 
of  trete,  but  wold  take  noo  parte,  and  as  I  sopose  that  was  be 
Heydons  avyse ;  for  your  uncle  sent  to  me  to  be  with  hym, 
and  also  the  same  man  rodd  to  Heydon  and  Wymondham, 
&c.  The  brenger  of  this  letter  can  tell,  for  he  was  with 
your  brothere  E.  at  these  placez. 

Forther,  my  mastras  your  moder  gretyth  yow  well,  and 
sendyth  yow  her  blessyng,  requiryng  yow  to  come  oute  of 
that  here  [^air]  alsone  as  ye  may ;  and  your  brothere  E. 
comaundid  hym  to  yow,  and  he  doth  hys  dylygens,  and  parte 
for  yow  full  well  and  saddely  yn  many  behalvys,  and  hath 
brought  my  maistras  your  wife  to  Topcrofte  on  Friday  last, 
and  they  fare  all  well  there;  and  he  yntendith  to  see  my 
30 


EDWARD  IV 

Master  Fitz  Water,  whech  lythe  at  Freton,  ner  Long  1479 
Stratton.  And  God  be  your  gide  yn  all  your  maters,  and  nov.  28 
brenge  yow  sone  home. 

Wretyn   at  Norwyche,  on   Sonday  at  nyght  next  before 
Sent  Andrew,  and  delyverd  on  Monday  next  be  the  morwyn. 

Be  your,  W.  Lomnour. 


964 

ABSTRACT! 

QWilliam  Paston  to  Robert  Walsh] 

Thinks  his  dealing  not  very  commendable,  seeing  that  the  writer  is  not  paid 
his  fee,  according  to  the  promise  made  by  him  and  Fouke  of  Knapton,  when 
they  were  with  him  at  Norton.  I  had  a  distress  and  left  it  for  your  sake,  but 
you  show  no  consideration  for  me,  etc. 

[This  is  a  draft  in  the  handwriting  of  William  Paston.  To  it  is  attached  a  small 
slip  with  these  words,  *  A  letter  fro  William  Paston  to  Robert  Walsch  and  Robert 
Fouk  of  Knapton.'] 


JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  2 

To  my  ryght  worchepfull  and  most  kynd  modyr, 
Margarett  Paston, 

RYGHT  werchepfull  modyr,  aftyr  all  dutes  of  humble  dec. 
recomendacyon,  as  lowly  as  I  can,  I  beseche  yow  of 
your  dayly  blessyng  and  preyer.  Pleasyt  yow  to 
undyrstand  that  wher  as  ye  wyllyd  me  by  Poiness  to  hast  me 
ought  of  the  heyer  that  I  am  in,  it  is  so  that  I  must  pwt  me 
in  God,  for  her  must  I  be  for  a  season,  and  in  good  feyth  I 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  It  is  evident  from  the  contents  that  this  letter  was 
written  shortly  after  the  death  of  Sir  John  Paston.  The  year  1479  was  a  year  of  great 
mortality,  in  which  the  Paston  family  lost  three  of  its  members.  The  letter  is  not 
signed,  but  is  in  John  Paston's  hand. 

31 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1479  s^^^l  never,  whyll  God  sendyth  me  lyfF,  dred  mor  dethe  than 
OEC.  shame  ;  and  thankyd  be  God,  the  sykness  is  well  seasyd  here, 
and  also  my  besyness  putty th  awey  my  fere.  I  am  drevyn  to 
labore  in  lettyng  of  th'execucyon  of  myn  unkynd  onclys  entent, 
wher  in  I  have  as  yet  non  other  dyscorage,  but  that  I  trust  in 
God  he  shall  fayle  of  it. 

I  have  spokyn  with  my  Lord  of  Ely  ^  dyvers  tymys,  whyche 
hathe  put  me  in  serteynte  by  hys  woord,  that  he  wyll  be  with 
me  ayenst  myn  oncle  in  iche  mater  that  I  can  shewe  that  he 
entendyth  to  wrong  me  in  ;  and  he  wold  fayne  have  a  reson- 
able  end  betwyx  us,  wher  to  he  wyll  helpe,  as  he  seythe.  And 
it  is  serteyn  my  brodyr,  God  have  hys  soule,  had  promysed  to 
a  byde  the  reule  of  my  Lord  Chamberleyn  ^  and  of  my  Lord 
Ely  ;  but  I  am  not  yett  so  far  forthe,  nor  not  wyll  be,  tyll  I 
know  my  Lord  Chamberleyns  intent,  and  that  I  purpose  to  do 
to  morow,  for  then  I  thynk  to  bewith  hym,  with  Godes  leve. 
And  sythe  it  is  so  that  God  hathe  purveyd  me  to  be  the 
solysytore  of  thys  mater,  I  thank  Hym  of  Hys  grace  for  the 
good  lordes,  mastrys,  and  frendys  that  He  hathe  sent  me, 
whyche  have  perfytely  promysyd  me  to  take  my  cause  as  ther 
owne,  and  those  frendes  be  not  a  fewe. 

And,  modyr,  as  I  best  can  and  may,  I  thank  yow  and  my 
cosyn  Lomenore  of  the  good  avyse  that  ye  have  sent  me, 
and  I  shall  aplye  me  to  do  ther  aftyr.  Also,  modyr,  I  beseche 
you  on  my  behalf  to  thank  myn  cosyn  Lomnorre  for  the  kind- 
ness that  he  hathe  shewyd  on  to  me  in  gevyng  of  hys  answer 
to  myn  onclys  servaunt,  whyche  was  with  hym. 

Modyr,  I  wryght  not  so  largely  to  yow  as  I  wold  do,  for 
I  have  not  most  leyser ;  and  also  when  I  have  ben  with  my 
Lord  Chamberleyn,  I  purpose  not  to  tery  longe  aftyr  in 
London,  but  to  dresse  me  to  yow  wardes  ;  at  whyche  tyme 
I  trust  I  shall  brynge  yow  more  serteynte  of  all  the  fordell 
[advantage]  that  I  have  in  my  besyness  then  I  can  as  yett 
wryght. 

I  am  put  in  serteynte  by  my  most  specyall  good  mastyr, 
my  Mastyr  of  the  Rollys,'  that  my  Lord  of  Ely  is,  and  shal  be 

1  John  Morton,  Bishop  of  Ely.  2  Lord  Hastings, 

2  Robert  Morton. 

32 


EDWARD  IV 

bettyr  lord  to  me  then  he  hathe  shewyd  as  yet,  and  yet  hathe     1479 
he  delt  with  me  ryght  well  and  honourably.  °^C' 

Modyr,  I  beseche  yow  that  Pekok  may  be  sent  to  purvey 
me  as  myche  money  as  is  possybyli  for  hym  to  make  ayenst 
my  comyng  home,  for  I  have  myche  to  pay  her  in  London, 
what  for  the  funerall  costes,  dettes,  and  legattes  that  must  be 
content  in  gretter  hast  then  shalbe  myn  ease.  Also  I  wold 
the  ferme  barly  in  Flegge,  as  well  as  at  Paston,  if  ther  be  eny, 
wer  gadryd,  and  iff  it  may  be  resonably  sold,  then  to  be  sold 
or  putt  to  the  maltyng  ;  but  I  wold  at  Caster  that  it  were 
ought  of  the  tenauntes  handys  for  thynges  that  I  here  (kepe 
ye  consell  thys  fro  Pekok  and  all  folkys),  whyche  mater  I  shall 
appese,  if  God  wyll  geve  me  leve. 


966 

JOHN  PASTON  AND  HIS  UNCLE  WILLIAM  1 

THES   be   th*enjuryes   and   wrongys   done    by  William    After 
Paston  to  John  Paston,  hys  nevew.  ^479 

Fyrst,  the  maners  of  Marlyngforthe,  Stansted,  and 
Horwellbery  wes  gev[en  to]  William  Paston,  Justyce,  and  to 
Agnes,  hys  wyfF,  and  to  th'eyers  of  ther  tw  ....  to 
whom  the  seyd  John  Paston  is  cosyn  and  heyer,  that  is  to 
sey,  son  to  John,  son  and  heyer  to  the  seyd  William  and 
Agnes. 

Item,  wher  the  [seyd  William  Paston  was  seasyd  of  the  maner 

of ],  Ed.  Clere  with  other  infeofyd  to  the  use  of  the  seyd 

Willpam]  ^  and  of  hys  heyres,  the  whyche  William  made  hys 
wyll  that  th[e  said  Agnes],  hys  [wife],  shold  have  the  seyd 
maner  for  terme  of  hyr  lyiF.  And  aftyr  th[at  he]  dyed,  and 
the  seyd  Agnes  occupyed  for  terme  of  hyr  seyd  lyfF  .... 
of  the  seyd  feofFes  the  seyd  maner  ;  and  aftyrwardes  the  seyd 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  It  is  evident  that  this  paper  was  drawn  up  some 
time  after  the  death  of  Sir  John  Paston  in  1479.  It  is  in  his  brother  John's  hand- 
writing. 

^  *  Ed.  Clere — Will[iam].' — These  words  are  interlined  in  place  of  the  words  in 
italics  within  brackets,  which  are  stnick  through. 

VOL.  VI. C  2tZ 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

After AfFtyr  whoys  dethe  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght, 

1479    ^^  cosyn  and  heyer  to  t[he  said  William],  in  to  the  seyd  maner 

entred,  and  dyed  with  ought  issue  of  hys  bodye 

John  as  brodyr  and  heyer  to  the  seyd  Sir  John,  [and  cosyn  and 
heyer  is  lett  .  .]/  .  .  seyd  maner  entred,  and  is  lettyd 
to  take  the  profytys  of  the  same  by  ....  of  the  maners 
of  Marlyngforthe,  Stansted,  and  Horwelbery  befor  r  .  .  .  . 
by  the  meanys  of  the  seyd  Wylliam. 


967 

JOHN  PASTON  TO 2 

1479-  ^2^IR,  I  pray  yow  that  ye  will  send  sum  chyld  to  my  Lord 
80  ^^  of  Bukingham  place,  and  to  the  Crown,  wich  as  I  con- 
^^  seive  is  called  Gerardes  Hall,  in  Bred  Stret,  to  inquere 
whedir  I  have  any  answer  of  my  letter  sent  to  Caleys,  whech 
ye  know  off ;  and  that  ye  will  remembre  my  brotheris  ston, 
so  that  it  myth  be  mad  er  I  cumm  ageyn,  and  that  it  be  klenly 
wrowgth.  It  is  told  me  that  the  man  at  Sent  Bridis  is  no 
klenly  portrayer  ;  [the]rfor  I  wold  fayn  it  myth  be  portrayed 
be  sum  odir  man,  and  he  to  grave  it  up. 

Sir,  it  is  informyd  sum  personis  in  this  cuntre  that  ye 
know  that  the  frere  will  sew  a  nodir  delegaci  fro  Rome,  direkt 
to  sum  byschop  of  Ingland,  to  amend  his  mater,  &c.  ;  and 
how  be  it  that  it  may  not  gretly  hurt,  yet  the  seyd  persones, 
&:c.,  wold  not  he  shuld  have  his  entent,  in  asmoch  as  his 
suggestion  is  untrew,  but  rather  they  wold  spend  mony  to 
lette  it.  I  suppose  the  Abbot  of  Bery  shuld  labor  for  him 
rather  than  anodir,  becawse  the  sey  Abbot  is  a  perteynor  to 
the  lord  that  is  the  freris  mayntener,  &c. ;  wherefor,  ser,  my 
moder  and  I  pray  yow  enquere  after  a  man  callid  Clederro, 

^  These  words  are  struck  through. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  As  this  letter  refers  to  the  making  of  a  tombstone 
for  Sir  John  Paston,  it  may  be  presumed  to  have  been  written  either  at  the  end  of  the 
year  1479,  o^  ^"^  ^^  course  of  the  year  1480.  The  ms.  is  a  rough  draft,  apparently 
in  the  hand  of  Edmund  Paston.  It  has  been  slightly  mutilated,  and  apparently  since 
the  letter  was  printed  in  Fenn's  fifth  volume. 

34 


EDWARD  IV 

whych  is  solisitor  and  attorne  with  Master  Will.  Grey,  that  1479- 
late  was  the  Kingges  proktor  at  Rome,  and  the  seyd  Clederro  80 
sendith  matiers  and  letters  owth  of  Ingelond  to  his  seyd  master 
ever[y]  monith,  &c.  He  is  well  knowe  in  London,  and  among 
the  Lumbardes,  and  with  the  Bischop  of  Winchesteris  men, 
but  I  wot  not  wher  he  dwellit  in  London,  and  I  suppos  if  ye 
speke  with  him,  he  knowith  me.  Plese  vow  to  comone  with 
him  of  this  mater,  but  let  him  not  wete  of  the  mater  atwix  my 
modir  and  him  ;  but  desir  him  to  wryth  to  his  master  to  Ictt 
this,  if  it  may  be,  or  elles  to  se  the  best  wey  that  he  have  not 
his  intent,  and  to  comon  with  the  proktor  of  the  Whith  Freris 
at  Rome  to  hep  forth,  for  the  freris  here  have  laborid  to  my 
moder,  and  praid  her  to  lette  his  ontrewe  intent,  and  have 
wrete  to  her  proketor  befor  this.  And  I  suppose  if  ye  speke 
to  the  prior  of  the  freris  at  London,  he  will  writh  to  her  seyd 
proktor,  &c.,  but  tell  the  prior  no  word  that  I  know  [therjof, 
but  let  him  wete  if  he  will  wryth  to  his  proktor,  odir  men  shall 
help  forth. 

More  over,  that  ye  will  tell  Cledero  that  I  am  not  seker 
that  the  frere  laborith  thus,  but  be  talis  of  freris  and  odir ; 
nevertheles  let  him  writh  to  his  master  that  [for]  whatsomevyr 
he  do  herin,  he  shall  be  truly  content  for  his  labor  and  costes. 
And  if  ye  think  that  Cledro  will  writh  effectually  herin,  geff . 
hym  j.  noble,  [bid]  hym  let  his  master  know  that  my  Lord  of 
Wynchester  ^  and  Danyell  ow  godwill  to  the  part  that  he  shall 
labor  for.  And  if  thar  be  fown  no  sech  sewth  be  the  seyd 
[fre]re,  yet  wold  I  have  sum  thing  fro  Rome  to  anull  the  old 
bull,  &c.,  or  to  apeyr  [impair]  it  [if]  it  myth  be  do  esily,  &c., 
and  tyding  wheder  ther  be  any  sech  sute,  &c. 

Your  own,  &c. 

[For]  how  beit  that  it  may  nowthir  avayl  ner  hurt,  yet  my 
moder  will  this  be  do.  [I]  send  yow  the  copi  of  the  bull,  and 
how  execucion  was  do,  and  informacion  of  the  mater  imparte, 
&c.  And,  sir,  I  sha  content  your  noble,  &c.  And  I  pray 
yow  red  it  over,  and  spede  yow  homeward,  and  bring  this 
letter  home  with  yow,  &c. 

1  William  Waynflete,  Bishop  of  Winchester. 

35 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


968 

AN  INVENTORY  OF  PLATE  ^ 


1479     ^^  primis,  a  sallt  with  j.  cover, 

j.  stumpe  of  a  sake,      .... 

j.  flat  salt  with  a  squyrell, 

iiij.  Parys  cuppis  with  a  cover,  with  a 

rose  in  the  botom,  weyeng, 
ij.  holowe  disshes,        .... 
j.  chafre  of  silver,         .... 
xij.  sylver  spones,  wereof  my  lady  hath 

one. 
j.  lytil  spone  of  Rippyngales, 

j.  lityll  spone  for  egges, 

j.  prikettes  nuper  Howis,      . 

j.  preket  nuper  Howis, 

j.  long  sokett. 

j.  nother  long  soket. 

vj.  soketes,  with  branches  to  remeve. 

iij.  wherwilles  to  the  same. 

j.    playne   pees   for  potage,   per  estiraa- 

cionem, ...... 

j.  playn  pees  nuper  Frere  Water,  . 

j.     nother    playn     peece     nuper     Frere 

Walter, ...... 

j.  chaleis,  .  .  . 

ij.  cruettes,  ..... 

a  paxbred,  ^         .  .  .         .  . 

j.  holowe  barbore  bason,  bought  of  Colet. 
j.    standing    pece    couvered,    bought   of 

Elingham. 
iij.  gilt  spones. 

j.  spone  for  grene  gynger,  gilt, 
j.   gilte    cup    covered,   wel  shapen  with 

trayle,   with   j.   knop   with  a  kroune 

enamelid,         ..... 
j.  nothir  cupp  standing  covered,  gilt,  bell 

shapen  with  trailles,  with  a  playn  knopp 

not  enamelid,  ..... 


XX.  unces  di.  &  di.  quart. 

ij.  unces  &  di. 

j.  unce  iij.  quarters. 

Ivj.  unces  j.  quarter, 
xxix.  unces  iij.  quarter  di. 
ix.  unces  j.  quarter. 


j.  quarter  &  di.  quarter,  j.  d.  ob. 

q*-  di. 
j.  quarter  &  di.  quarter  ob. 
ix.  unces  ij.  d.  weight, 
viij.  unces  iij.  quarters  &  di. 


xj.  unces  j.  quarter, 
iiij.  unces  j.  quarter. 

iiij.  unces  di.  quarter. 
XV.  unces  &  di.  quarter, 
vij.  unces  iij.  quarters, 
iij.  unces  di.  quarter  j.  d. 


XV.  unces  &  j.  quarter. 

j.  unce  j.  quarter  j.  q*-  &  di. 

xxxiij.  unces  &  di.  &  di.  quarter. 

xxiij.  unces  &  j.  quarter. 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     This  inventory  was  certainly  drawn  up  after  the 
death  of  Agnes  Paston,  but  how  many  years  later  it  is  impossible  to  say. 

2  A  silver  plate  with  a  figure  of  the   Crucifixion  upon  it  given  to  be  kissed  at 
Mass. 

36 


EDWARD  IV 


j.  maser  Sipton. 
ij.  masers. 
iij.  gilt  spones. 
j.  gynger  spone. 

j.  bag  whiteleder,  wherin  is  all  this  stuff 
folowyng  this  lyne  : — 

iij.  girdels  Staunton. 
j.  girdel  upholdester. 
Fawcon  Skern  coppe. 
Hans  Eborlyn  girdel. 
Purs  gold  with  Jane  Aske  harnes. 
ij.  lynen  bagges  lityll  with  broke  silver 
and  j.  old  harneis  gilt. 

Furst,  a   standing    cuppe  with  a  cover 

therto  plommed,  weyeng  . 
Item,  a  standing  coppe  curid  gilt,  weyeng 
Item,  a  nother  standing  cupp  cuerid  gilt 

weying  .... 

Item,  a  goblette  of  silver  and  gilt  covered 
Item,  a  nother  goblett  gilt,  weyeng 
Item,  a  nothir  goblet  gilt,  weyeng  . 
Item,  a  standing  white  pees  with  a  cover 

withoute  a  knoppe,  weyeng 
Item,  a  salt  with  a  pale  covered,    . 
Item,  a  rounde  salt  covered. 
Item,  a  rounde  salt  uncovered. 
Item,  a  basonne  of       .         .         . 
Item,  an  ewer  to  the  same  of 
Item,  an  ewer,    .... 
Item,  vj.  silver  sponys  with  square  sharp 

knoppes  of      . 
Item,  spone  for  grene  gynger  of     . 
Item,  a  grete  gilt  chalis  with  a  patent 

longing  to  the  same,  weying 
Item,  a  litil  standing  pece  chacid  plumtes 

with  a  kover  to  the  same. 
Item,  a  blak  notte  standing  of  silver  and 

gilt,  with  a  kover  to  the  same,  weying 
Item,  a  grete  maser  with  a  prend  in  the 

botom,  and  the  armes  of  Seint  Jorge, 

weying  ...... 

Item,  a  nother  maser  sownde  in  the  botom 

and  a  sengilbonde,  .... 
Item,  a  lytil  maser  with  a  foote,  weying . 
Item,  a  nother  maser  with  a  lytill  foote, 

weing     ...... 


H79 


xxiiij.  unces  di. 
xxxvj.  unces. 

XV.  unces  iij.  q**  &  di. 
xiiij.  unces  j.  quarter  &  di. 
xij.  unc*  &  j.  d.  weight. 
vij.  unc*. 

xxij.  unces. 

xiiij.  unc*  j.  quarter. 

xix.  unc*  j.  quarter  di. 

viij.  unces. 

XXXV.  unc*  j.  quarter. 

XV.  unc*  &  di.  quarter. 

xiiij.  unc*  di.  quarter. 

V.  unces  iij.  quarter  j.  d.  wight, 
iij.  quarters  &  ij.  d.  wight. 

xlij.  unces  j.  quarter. 

X.  unces  j.  quarter. 

xviij.  unc'. 

XV.  unc*  j.  quarter  &  di. 

viij.  unc'  &  j.  quarter, 
viij.  unc*. 


vuj.  unc 


37 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


1479     Item,  a  nothir  litill  maser  with  an  higher 
foote,  weying  ..... 

Item,  XX*'  spones  on  a  bundell,  weying   . 

Item,  vj.  spones  with  acorns,  weying 

Item,  a  peyre  bedes  of  corall  with  pater- 

nostris  of  silver  and  gilt,  and  a  knopp 

of  smale  perle,  weying 

In    primis,    j.    standing    cuppe    covered 

playne  with  a  rounde  knoppe,  weyeng 

j.  nodir  cuppe  of  golde  covered  playne 

with  a  chacid  knoppe,  weying    . 
j.  layer  of  gold  with  a  crokid  spoute, 
weyeng  ...... 

j.  nothir  layer  of  golde,  weyeng 
j.  chaleis  of  fyne  golde  in  pecis  broken,  . 
j.  coppe  of  golde  covered,  chacid  with  a 
perle,      ...... 

j.  salte  covered  with  a  berall  gairneshid, . 

j.   nothir    salt   covered,  garnyshed  with 

stones,    ...... 

j.  par  of  gilt  basouns  covered,  weyeng     . 
.  salte  gilte,  weyeng    .... 

.  cover  to  the  same,  weyeng, 

.  nothir  salte  gilte  withoute  a  cover, 

.  standing  pees  gilte,  with  a  cover  Skern, 

.  nothir  standing  pees  gilte  with  a  cover, 

A.  P 

.  flatte  pees  covered,  gilt,  A.  P.   . 

.  potte  for  grene  gynger  gilte, 

.  cover  to  the  same,  weying 

.  stonding  cuppe  covered  par  cell  gilt,  Sir 

Buk, 

.  salt  covered  parcell  gilt.  Sir  Ric.*, 

.  paxe  parcell  gilte,  Staunton, 

.  standing  cuppe  with   a  kever,  parcell 

gilt,  Staunton, 
.  goblett  for  Rynesh  wyne  covered, 
.  powder  boxe,  .... 
.  noder  powder  boxe, 
J.  candilstykke  with  a  lous  [Joose~]  sokett 

and  j.  preket,  P,       .         .         . 
ij.  candilstikkes  with    ij.   lous   preketes 

Skern,    ..... 
di.  doss,   [half  a  do%en~\    sylver  spones 

Shipton,  .... 

di.  doss,  spones,  Stanton, 
j.  bason,  P.         .         .         .         . 

38 


X.  unces  &  j.  quarter, 
xvj.  unc.  j.  quarter. 
V.  unc'  &  di.  quarter. 


vj.  unc   j.  quarter. 

XXV.  unces. 

xxiij.  unces  iij.  quarters. 

xiij.  unces  iij.  quarters, 
xiij.  unces  j.  quarter  j.  d. 
xxiiij.  unces. 

xxj.  unces. 

V.  unces  j.  quarter. 

V.  unces  iij.  quarter, 
yjjjxx.  j^jj^^  unces  &  di. 

xxviij.  unces  di.  quarter, 
viij.  unces  j.  quarter, 
xxvij.  unces  iij.  quarters, 
xxxvij.  unces  j.  quarter. 

xxj.  unces  di.  &  di.  quarter, 
xviij.  unces  &  di. 
X.  unces  &  di.  iiij.  d.  ob. 
j.  unce  &  j.  quarter. 

xvj.  unces  &  j.  quarter, 
xij.  unces  &  di. 
xiij.  unces. 

xix.  unces  &  di. 

xj.  unces  &  di.  quarter. 

vj.  unces  j.  quarter  di.  quarter. 

viij.  unces  j.  quarter. 

xvij.  unces  di.  quarter. 

xxxj.  unces  j.  quarter  di. 

vj.  unces  di.  &  di.  quarter, 
vij.  unces. 
xlv.  unces  di. 


EDWARD  IV 


j.  bason,  Sparke, 

j.  bason,  Sturmer,  with  a  spoute,    . 

j.  bason,  Sturmer,  withoute  a  spoute, 

j.  bason,  Rous,    . 
j.  ewer,  P. 
j.  ewer,  Sparke, 
j.  ewer,  Sturmer, 

j.  ewer,  Sturmer, 

j.  ewer,  Rous,     . 
j.  pott,  Hous, 
j.  pott,  P. 

j.  pott,  S.  .  .  .  lett, 
j.  pott,  Rous, 
j.  pott,  Spark,     . 
j.  flagon,     . 
j.  layer,      . 
j.  layer,      .         . 

▼j.  Parys  cuppis  with  a  cover,  Skerne, 
j.  grete  boll  pees,  with  a  cover,  Noris, 
xxiij.  disshis  of  sylver,  Skerne, 
iiij.  chargeours,   . 
xxvij.  dishes, 
xxiij.  sawcers,    . 
^  xij.    flatt    cuppis    of    silver,    P.    and 
Staunton, 


^  iiij.    coveres    to    the    same,    P 

Staunton, 
j.  chargeour  priour  (?)  water. 


and 


Ix.  unces. 

xxxiiij.  unces.  j.  quarter  j.  d.  q. 

xxxij.  unces  j.  quarter  di.  quarter  j. 
d.  q*- 

1.  unces  iij.  quarters. 

xvj.  unces  &  di.  &  di.  quarter. 

XX.  unces. 

xiiij.  unces  j.  quarter  and  di.  quar- 
ter q*- 

xiiij.  unces  di.  di.  quarter  j.  d.  ob. 

xviij.  unces. 

Ivij.  unces. 

xxviij.  unces  iij.  quarter  di.  ij. 

XV.  unces. 

XXXV.  unces. 

xxvij.  unces  j.  quarter. 

xxxix.  unces. 

ix.  unces  a  quarter  &  di. 

ix.  unces  j.  quarter  &  ij.  di. 

Ixx.  unces  iij.  quarters  di. 

xl.  unces  j.  quarter. 

xvij"vj.  unces  di. 

v'^'^x.  unces. 

xx^^'xj.  unces  di.  &  di.  quarter. 

vj**xv.  unces. 

v^^v.  unces  iij.  quarters. 

xl.  unces. 

xlvj.  unces  j.  quarter  di. 


H79 


969 

ABSTRACT  2 

William  Paston  to  his  Brother  Edmund  Paston 

Encloses  the  will  of  his  father,  *  such  as  my  brother  hath ' ;  who  says  he 
had  it  out  of  the  register.  My  business  is  no  further  advanced  since  I  left  you, 
except  that  my  brother  has  got  a  pardon  of  the  alienation  made  by  the  Bishop 
of  Winchester.  Can  get  no  estate  in  it  except  according  to  his  father's  will, 
viz.  to  himself  and  his  heirs-male.     My  brother's  will  is  that  I  should  have 


After 

1479 


1  These  two  entries  are  bracketed  together  in  the  MS.,  and  * Shend  hi  Ley'  (?) 
written  in  the  margin.  2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

39 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

After     Runham,  which  is  ^8  a  year  at  least,  in  recompense  of  the  lO  marks  put  of 
IA7Q     Sporle,  if  he  would  release  all  his  right  in  that  manor.       There  is  nothing 
"     touching  you  in  my  brother's  ^  will,  for  I  read  it  over  and  will  write  it  also ; 
*  so  that  I  woll  have  the  same  for  my  copy  that  he  wrote  with  his  own  hand.' 
Recommend  me  heartily  to  my  sister  your  wife. 

London,  22  Feb. 

[The  writer  of  this  was  William,  the  son  of  the  eldest  John  Fasten,  not  that  uncle 
William  with  whom  the  two  younger  John  Pastons  had  so  many  disputes.  I  see 
nothing  to  fix  the  date  beyond  the  fact  that  the  letter  was  written  after  Sir  John 
Paston's  death.] 


WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  JOHN  KYNG^ 

To  John  Kynge,  Fermour  of  my  Maner  of  Hartwelbury^ 
in  Kelsall^  besides  Roy s ton ^  be  this  delyverd. 

1480  XQHN  KYNG,  I  grete  yow  hartely  well;  and  I  under- 
FEB.  24  I  stond  as  well  by  my  frende,  Syr  William  Storar,  as  by 
^  Ric.  Browne,  that  as  well  my  kynnesman  Syr  John 
Paston  that  dede  is,  as  my  kynnesman  John  Paston  that  now 
leveth,  have  ben  with  yow,  and  yovyn  yow  many  grete  thretis, 
for  that  ye  acordyng  to  the  trowth,  tolde  unto  them  that  ye 
ocupyed  my  maner  of  Harwelbury  be  my  leese,  and  be  my 
ryght.  And  further  more  I  understond,  notwithstondyng  the 
seyde  grete  thretis,  that  ye,  lyke  a  full  trewe,  harty  frende, 
have  delyd  and  fastely  abedyn  in  my  tytill,  and  wolde  not 
retorne  to  none  of  them.  Wherfor  I  hartely  thank  yow ;  and 
furthar  more  to  corage  yow  in  yowr  fast  dealyng,  I  schew 
onto  yow  that  I  have  ryght  bothe  in  law  and  in  concience, 
wherby  I  promyse  yow  on  my  feythe  to  defende  yow  and  save 
yow  harmeles  for  the  occupacion  of  the  londe,  or  any  thynge 
that  ye  schall  doo  in  my  titill  a  gaynst  hym,  and  it  schulde 
cost  me  as  moche  as  the  maner  is  worth,  and  also  another 
tyme  to  doo  as  moche  for  yow,  and  it  ly  in  my  powre,  j{  ye 
have  ony  mater  to  doo  ther  as  I  may  doo  for  yow. 

1  Sir  John  Paston,  who  died  in  1479. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  point  out  that  this  letter 
was  probably  written  within  a  year  after  Sir  John  Paston's  death. 

40 


EDWARD  IV 

And,  also,  I  here  say,  by  my  seid  frende,  Syr  William     1480 
Storar,  and  by  Ric.  Brown,  that  ye  ar  of  suche  substaunce,    ^eb.  24 
and  of  suche  trust,  and  suche  favor  in  the  contre  ther,  that  it 
lithe  in  yowr  powre  to  do  a  goode  turne  for  yowr  frende. 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  xxiiij*'  day  of  Februari. 

Be  William  Paston. 

971 

GEORGE,  SERVANT  TO  WILLIAM  PASTON, 
TO  JOHN  KYNGi 

To  John  Kyng  of  Therfeld,  In  Herdfordshire, 

Right  trusty  and  welbeloved  frende,  I  comaunde  me  to  you.     And,  Ser,  I     Date 
tolde  my  maister  that  ye  wolde  have  ben  with  him  or  this ;  for  which  cause  he    uncer- 
mervaileth  ye  kepe  nat  your  promyse.      Wherfore  I  avise  you  to  come  and      fa}n 
bryng  my  maister  his  money  afore  this  fest  of  Cristmasse. 

And,  also,  ye  ar  yerly  behynde  of  a  boore  or  els  ten  shillinges  after  the 
price  of  oon  bore.  And  where  ye  be  owyng  your  boore  for  ij.  yerys,  I  wolde 
avyse  you  to  delyver  unto  Ser  William  Storer  the  seid  dute,  or  els  I  counceile 
you  to  send  my  maister  a  resonable  somme  of  money  with  thies  boores  afore 
Cristmasse  for  your  thanke,  consideryng  his  kynde  dealyng,  as  well  in  suffer- 
aunce  of  your  money  as  in  your  owne  matier. 

Writen  at  London,  the  xvj***  day  of  Decembre. 

Be  your  frende,  George, 
servaunte  to  Mr.  W.  Paston. ^ 

JOHN,  PRIOR  OF  BROMHOLM,  TO  JOHN  PASTON » 

'To  my  right  worchipful  maister^  John  Paston^  Sqwyer. 

RIGHT  worchipful  maister,  I  recomaunde  me  un  to  yow,  14807 
desiryng  to  knowe  of  youre  welfare  and  prosperyte, 
wheche  Jesu  maynteyne  and  encreese  to  His  pleser 
after  youre  hertys  desyre,  thankyng  yow  ever  of  youre  good 

1  We  place  this  letter  after  the  last  for  convenience.     Its  date  is  unimportant. 

2  The  subscription  is  in  a  different  hand  from  the  letter  itself,  which  is  in  a  clerk's 
hand,  very  well  written. 

^  [From  Fenn,  iii.  400.]     On  the  date  of  this  letter  Fenn  remarks  as  follows  : — 
*John  Titleshale  was  prior  of  Bromholm  from  1460  for  about  twenty  years.     This 

41 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1480-7  maistership  to  me  shewed  at  alle  tymes  withoute  deserte  on 
my  behalve,  prayng  yow,  and  hirtely  besechyng  of  youre 
goode  contynuance.  Please  it  yowre  maistership,  for  as 
moche  as  it  [is]  moved  on  to  the  my  good  maisters,  the 
counsell  of  the  Duche  of  Lancastr,  that  they  be  weelwillyng 
to  make  laboure  on  to  my  Sovereyn  Lady  the  Qween  at 
youre  good  instaunce  for  certeyn  tymber  toward  my  dortour 
at  Bromholm,  in  wheche  myn  specyall  desyre  is  to  have  viij. 
princypall  beemys,  everych  on  in  length  xj.  zerds.  I  am 
not  expeert  in  makyng  of  any  supplicacion,  besechyng  youre 
maistership  to  take  it  uppon  you  to  do  it  make  after  your 
avyce,  alegged  all  poverte,  as  youre  worchipfull  discrecion  can 
moche  better  than  I  can  enforme  ;  and  I  remitte  all  to  youre 
wysdam,  ever  besechyng  you  to  calle  this  matyer  to  youre 
remembraunce.  No  more  at  this  tyme,  but  the  Holy  Trinite 
mote  have  yow  in  His  governaunce,  and  sende  you  longe  lyf 
to  endure  to  His  pleser. 

Wreten  the  xiiij^  day  of  Octobr. 

Youre  preest  and  chapeleyn, 

John,  Priour  of  Bromholm. 

letter  must  have  been  written  therefore  either  on  the  14th  October  1460,  or  on  the 
same  day  in  1465,  as  Edward  iv.  married  in  that  year,  and  J.  Paston  died  in  May 
1466.  If  it  was  written  in  the  former,  the  request  [for  timber]  must  have  been  to 
Queen  Margaret  j  if  in  the  latter,  to  Elizabeth,  the  Queen  of  Edward  iv.'  In  these 
observations  Fenn  overlooks  the  possibility  of  the  letter  having  been  addressed  to  any 
other  John  Paston  than  the  first  of  that  name  ;  and  neither  of  the  two  years,  which 
alone  suit  that  supposition,  has  much  internal  probability.  It  is  inconceivable  that 
the  letter  could  have  been  written  in  1460,  when  Queen  Margaret  had  retired  into 
Wales  after  the  battle  of  Northampton,  and  it  is  almost  equally  improbable  that  the 
date  could  have  been  1465,  when  John  Paston,  the  father,  was  in  prison.  We  have 
very  little  doubt  that  the  letter  was  addressed  to  John  Paston  the  youngest,  called  of 
Gelston,  long  after  his  father's  death,  and  after  that  of  his  brother  Sir  John  also. 
John  Tytleshale,  who  was  Prior  of  Bromholm  in  1460,  was  succeeded,  at  what  date 
we  are  not  informed,  by  John  Macham  ;  and  after  him  John  Underwood,  Bishop  of 
Chalcedon,  suffragan  of  the  Bishop  of  Norwich,  was  prior  in  1509.  The  date  of  this 
letter,  however,  must  lie  between  1480  and  1487,  in  which  latter  year  John  Paston 
the  youngest  was  created  a  knight  for  his  services  at  the  battle  of  Stoke. 


42 


I48I 


EDWARD  IV 

973 

ABSTRACT  ^ 

Appointment  touching  *  Ayeseldys  wyff.'  Her  friends  to  labour  for  her  Not 
acquittal  of  the  felony,  without  letting  of  Wremmegey's  wife,  etc.  ;^20  to  be  after 
deposited  *  in  mene  hand '  by  the  friends  of  A's  wife,  to  be  delivered  on  her 
acquittal  to  Darby  and  other  frends  of  W/s  wife.  Also  Master  Yelverton  shall 
have  his  £'^  due  to  him  from  Ayseldys  wife  paid  by  both  parties. 

Signed — John  Yelverton. 

[I  can  find  no  other  reference  to  the  matter  referred  to  in  this  paper,  and  cannot 
tell  the  date;  but  as  John  Yelverton,  the  son  of  the  judge,  died  on  the  9th  July  148 1 
(Blomefield,  x.  31),  it  cannot  be  later  than  that  year.] 


974 

EDMUND  PASTON  TO  WILLIAM  PASTON  2 

To  my  brother,  Wylliam  Paston,  be  this  delyverd. 

IHARTELY  recomawnd  me  to  zow.  Here  is  lately  About 
fallyn  a  wydow  in  Woorstede,  whyche  was  wyfF  to  one  148 1(?) 
Bolt,  a  worstede  marchaunt,  and  worth  a  m'7/.,  and  gaff 
to  hys  wyff  a  C.  marke  in  mony,  stuffe  of  howsold,  and  plate 
to  the  valew  of  an  C.  marke,  and  x//.  be  zere  in  land.  She  is 
callyd  a  fayer  jantylwoman.  I  wyll  for  zour  sake  se  her.  She 
is  ryght  systyr,  of  fader  and  modyr,  to  Herry  Ynglows.  I 
purpose  to  speke  with  hym  to  gett  hys  good  wyll.  Thes 
jantylwoman  is  abowght  xxx.  zeres,  and  has  but  ij.  chyldern, 
whyche  shalbe  at  the  dedes  charge  ;  she  was  hys  wyff  but  v. 
zere.  Yf  she  be  eny  better  than  I  wryght  for,  take  it  in 
woothe  I  shew  the  leeste.     Thus  lete  me  have  knowlache  of 

1  [From  Fasten  mss.,  B.M.] 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  There  is  nothing  to  show  the  date  of  this  letter, 
except  the  fact  that  William  Paston  did  not  come  of  age  before  the  year  1481,  so  that 
it  is  not  likely  to  be  earlier.  Perhaps  it  may  be  a  few  years  later,  in  which  case  the 
widow  would  not  have  been  very  much  his  senior  j  but  that  circumstance  was  not 
likely,  in  those  days,  to  have  been  greatly  regarded  in  the  matter. 

43 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

About  zowr  mynde  as  shortly  as  ze  can,  and  whan  ze  shall  moun  be 
i48i(?)  in  this  cuntre.     And  thus  God  send  zow  good  helth  and  good 
aventure. 

From  Norwyche,  the  Saterday  after  xij*^^  day. 

Your,  E.  Paston. 


975 

EDMUND  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  ryght  wurchypfull  and  especiall  good  mother^ 

Margaret  Paston, 

Between  T)  YGHT  worchypfuU  and  moste  especialle  good  modyr, 

1 48 1 -4     f^      in  my  moste  umble  wyse,  with  alle  my  dute  and  ser- 

vyse,  I  recomawnd  me  to  yow,  besechynge  zow  of 

zour  blyssyng,  whyche  is  to  me  moste  joy  of  erthely  thynge  ; 

and  it  plese  zow  to  be  so  good  and  kynd  modyr  to  me  to  for- 

geve  me,  and  also  my  wyfFe,  of  owr  leude  offence  that  we  have 

not  don  ower  dute,  whyche  was  to  have  seyn  and  ave  waytyd 

up  on  zow  or  now.     My  huswyfFe  trustythe  to  ley  to  zow  her 

huswyferey  for  her  excuse,  wyche  I  muste  beseche  zow  not 

to  accepte,  for  in  good  faythe  I  deme  her  mynde  hathe  ben 

other  weys  ocapyed  than  as  to  huswyfery,  whyche  semyth 

welle  by  the  latchesnes  of  the  tylthe  of  her  landdes.     I  beseche 

God  for  the  forderawnce  of  them  as  now  rewarde  zow  and 

the  good  parson  of  Mautby,  and  also  Mastyer  Baley,  who  I 

wende  woold  not  have  balkyd  this  pore  loggeyng  to  Norwyche 

wardes. 

I  undyrstand  by  the  bryngger  here  of  that  ze  entende  to 
ryde  to  Walsyngham  ;  yi  it  please  zow  that  I  may  wete  the 
seayson,  as  my  dute  is,  I  shalle  be  redy  to  awayte  up  on  zow. 

1  [From  Paston  MS s.j'B.M.]  Fenn  dates  this  letter  1479-80,  suggesting  that  it 
must  have  been  written  very  soon  after  Edmund  Paston's  marriage  with  the  widow  of 
William  Clippesby,  as  it  seems  to  imply  that  he  had  not  yet  carried  his  bride  to  pay 
her  duty  to  his  mother.  I  do  not,  for  my  part,  know  the  date  of  this  marriage,  and 
I  suspect  Fenn  had  no  other  clue  to  it  than  the  fact  that  William  Clippesby,  the 
lady's  first  husband,  died  on  the  24th  September  1479  j  but  I  presume  his  widow  was 
still  unmarried  when  she  proved  his  will  on  the  i8th  May  1480  {see  Blomefield,  xi. 
144).  I  consider,  therefore,  that  the  letter  must  have  been  written  between  the  years 
148 1  and  1484,  as  Margaret  Paston  died  in  November  of  the  latter  year. 

44 


EDWARD  IV 

Plese  it  zow  that  the  brynggar  here  of  cam  to  me  for  xs.  Between 
viij^.  whyche  I  shuld  ow  hys  fadyr  ;  trew  it  was  at  my  laste  148 1-4 
departyng  from  hym,  I  owte  hym  somych,  but  sertaynly  or  I 
cam  at  ThetfFord  homewardes,  I  thowt  of  concyence  he  owte 
to  have  restoryd  me  as  myche.  I  had  my  horsse  with  hym  at 
iyvery,  and  amonge  alle  one  of  them  was  putte  to  gresse  and 
to  labur,  so  that  he  dyed  of  a  laxe  by  the  wey.  I  payed  for 
hard  mete  ever  to  hym. 

Plese  it  zow  to  delyver  Kateryn  vj.,  wyche  I  send  zow  in 
this  bylle.  I  am  not  assartaynd  how  she  is  purveyde  of  mony 
towardes  her  jornay.  Yf  her  fadyr  cowde  not  acleymed  ]d*.  of 
me,  I  woold  not  se  her  dysporveyd,  yf  I  myght,  nor  the  poreste 
chyld  that  is  belonggyng  to  hys  loggeyng. 

Modyr,  my  wyffe  is  boold  to  send  zow  a  tokyn.  I 
beseche  zow  pardon  alle  thyngges  not  done  acordyng  to  dute. 
I  beseche  God  send  zow  the  accomplyshment  of  zour  moste 
and  woorchypfuU  desyers. 

At  Owby,  the  Saterday  next  before  Candylmes. 
Zour  umble  son  and  servant, 

Edmond  Paston. 

976 

MONASTERY  OF  ST.  FAITH  1 

Robertus   filius    domini   Walteri   de    Mauteby   militis    insp^ex^sit   cartas      1 40 1 
an^tiquasj      ....     concessas  Deo  et  monasterio  Sanctae  Fidis  quinque      aug, 

quarteria  salis  annualis  redditus     .     .     e   olim quinque 

ivayes  percipienda  de  salinis  ma^rjissi  de  Mauteby  secundum  mensuram  ejusdem 
[[mari^Jssi.     Quam  quidem  concessionem  prasdictus  Robertus  ratificat     . 

.  suum  sub  sigillo  suo  quid  est[2j.  And  this  deed  sawe  John  Paston  at 
the  seid  Seynt  Feythes,  mense  Augusti  Anno  xxj°  Regis  E.  [Q]uarti.  And 
for  this  rent  a  .  .  the  prior  and  the  monkys  there  shewyd  [to  th]e  seyd 
John,  the  same  moneth  and  tyme,  thes  obitis  foloyng  tightled  in  the     .     .     . 

.     .     they  s[ay]d  that  they whiche  wold  be  knowyn  and 

wachid.      So  the  sayd      ....      the  obbites 

.     .     bi  Maltby  xij.  die  mensis  Aprilis.     Et  d'ns  d'nii  (?) 

Johannes  de  Maltb[y]. 

1  [Add.  Charter  17,252,  B.M.] 

2  Here  occurs  a  representation  of  a  shield  in  the  middle  of  the  text  of  the  ms. 

45 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

977 

ABSTRACT  i 

Anonymous  to  Mrs.  [Margaret  Paston  ?] 

There  is  no  tachment  made  in  the  land  unless  it  be  done  privily.  The 
sheriff  has  been  thrice  in  our  town  in  these  three  weeks.  As  for  the  panel  of 
Frances'  matter,  there  is  none  of  the  sheriff's  deputies  but  Francis  to  inquire 
of. 

[1  am  quite  unable  to  attach  a  date  to  this  letter,  or  to  conjecture  by  whom  it  was 
written.  Even  the  person  to  whom  it  is  addressed  is  very  uncertain,  though  I  have 
suggested  Margaret  Paston.] 

978 

MARGARET  PASTON'S  WILL.2 

1482  T^  ^^^  name  of  God,  amen.  I,  Margaret  Paston,  widowe, 
FEB.  4  I  late  the  wifF  of  John  Paston,  Squier,  doughter  and  heire 
•^  to  John  Mauteby,  Squier,  hole  of  spirit  and  mynde,  with 
perfite  avisement  and  good  deliberacion,  the  iiij**  day  of  Febru- 
ary, in  the  yer  of  Our  Lord  God  a  m'xccclxxxj.  make  my  testa- 
ment and  last  wille  in  this  fourme  folowyng.  First,  I  betake 
my  sowle  to  God  Almyghty  and  to  Our  Lady  His  blissid 
Moder,  Seint  Michael,  Seint  John  Baptist,  and  to  Alle  Seintes, 
and  my  body  to  be  beried  in  the  ele  of  the  cherch  of  Mauteby, 
byfore  the  ymage  of  Our  Lady  there.  In  which  ele  reste  the 
bodies  of  divers  of  myn  aunceteres,  whos  sowles  God  assoile. 

Item,  I  bequethe  to  the  high  awter  of  the  seid  cherch  of 
Mauteby  xxs. 

Item,  I  wuUe  that  the  seid  ele  in  which  my  body  shalbe 
beried  be  newe  robed,  leded,  and  glased,  and  the  walles  therof 
heyned  \heigktened^  convenyently  and  werkmanly. 

Item,  I  wuUe  that  myn  executours  purveye  a  stoon  of 
marble  to  be  leyde  alofte  upon  my  grave  within  a  yer  next 
after  my  decesse ;  and  upon  that  stoon  I  wuUe  have  iiij. 
scochens  sett  at  the  iiij.  corners,  wherof  I  wuUe  that  the  first 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  2  [Add.  Charter,  17,253,  B.M.] 

46 


EDWARD  IV 

scochen  shalbe  of  my  husbondes  armes  and  myn  departed,  the  1482 
ij"^*  of  Mawtebysarmes  and  Berneys  of  Redham  departed,  the  feb*  4 
iij*^*  of  Mawtebysarmes  and  the  Lord  Loveyn  departed,  the 
iiij'*  of  Mawtebysarmes  and  Sir  Roger  Beauchamp  departed. 
And  in  myddys  of  the  seid  stoon  I  wull  have  a  scochen  sett 
of  Mawtebysarmes  allone,  and  under  the  same  thise  wordes 
wretyn,  *  In  God  is  my  trust,*  with  a  scripture  wretyn  in  the 
verges  therof  rehersyng  thise  wordes,  '  Here  lieth  Margret 
Paston,  late  the  wif  of  John  Paston,  doughter  and  heire  of 
John  Mawteby,  Squier,*  and  so  forth,  in  the  same  scripture 
rehersed  the  day  of  the  moneth  and  the  yer  that  I  shall 
decesse  :  *  on  whos  sowle  God  have  mercy/ 

Item,  I  wuUe  that  myn  executours  shall  purveye  xij.  pore 
meen  of  my  tenauntes,  or  other  if  they  suffice  not,  the  whiche 
I  wulle  shalbe  apparailled  in  white  gownes  with  hodes  accord- 
ing, to  holde  xij.  torches  abowte  myn  herse  or  bere  at  such 
tyme  as  I  shalbe  beried,  during  the  exequies  and  masse  of  my 
berying;  which  xij.  torches  I  wille  remayne  in  the  seid  cherch 
of  Mawteby  whil  they  may  last  for  my  yerday. 

Which  yerday  I  wull  myn  heire  kepe  in  the  same  cherch 
for  me  my  seid  husbond  and  myn  aunceteres  yerly  during  the 
terme  of  xij.  yeres  next  after  my  decesse  ;^  and  I  wulle  that 
ich  of  the  seid  xij.  pore  meen  the  day  of  my  beriing  have  iiij^. 
Also,  I  wulle  that  iche  preste  being  at  my  berying  and  masse 
have  viij^.,  and  ich  clerk  in  surplys  iij^.  Also,  I  wull  that  the 
preste  which  shall  berie  me  have  vjs.  viij^.,  so  that  he  seye 
over  me  at  the  tyme  of  my  berying  all  the  whole  service  that 
to  the  berying  belongeth. 

Also,  I  wulle  that  from  the  day  and  tyme  that  I  am  beried 
unto  the  ende  of  vij.  yeres  than  next  folowyng  be  ordeyned  a 
taper  of  wexe  of  a//,  to  brenne  upon  my  grave  ich  Sonday  and 
haliday  at  alle  divine  service  to  be  seid  or  sunge  in  the  seid 
cherch  and  dailly  at  the  masse  of  that  preest  that  shalle  singe 
there  in  the  seid  ele  for  my  sowle. 

Item,  I  wulle  that  vj.  tapers,  ich  of  iiij//.,  brenne  abowte 
myn  herse  the  day  of  my  beryng,  of  which  I  wull  that  iiij. 

1  In  the  margin  is  written  in  John  Paston's  hand,  *  Memorandum,  v.  yer  to  come 
to  kepe  the  yerday.' 

47 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1482  yerly  be  kept  to  brenne  abowte  myn  herse  whan  my  yerday 
FEB.  4    shalbe  kept  aslong  as  they  may  honestly  serve. 

Item,  I  wuUe  have  an  honest  seculer  prest  to  synge  and 
pray  in  the  seid  ele  for  my  sowle,  the  sowles  of  my  father  and 
mother,  the  sowle  of  the  seid  John  Paston,  late  my  husband, 
and  for  the  sowlys  of  his  aunceteres  and  myn  during  the 
terme  of  vij.  yeres  next  after  my  decesse. 

Item,  I  wuUe  that  myn  executours  purveye  a  compleet 
legende  in  oon  book,  and  an  antiphoner  in  an  other  book, 
which  bookes  I  wuU  be  yeven  to  abide  ther  in  the  seid  cherch 
to  the  wursship  of  God  aslonge  as  they  may  endure.^ 

Item,  I  wuUe  that  every  houshold  in  Mauteby  as  hastily  as 
it  may  be  convenyently  doo  after  my  decesse  have  xij^. 

Item,  to  the  emendyng  of  the  cherch  of  Freton  in  Suffolk 
I  bequethe  a  chesiple  and  an  awbe.^ 

And  I  wuUe  that  ich  houshold  being  my  tenaunt  there 
have  vj^. 

And  I  bequethe  to  the  emendement  of  the  cherch  of 
Basyngham  a  chesiple  and  an  awbe.^ 

And  I  wuUe  that  every  houshold  there  have  viij^. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  the  emendyng  of  the  cherch  of  Mate- 
lask  a  chesiple  and  an  awbe.  * 

And  I  wuU  that  every  pore  houshold  that  are  my  tenauntes 
there  have  viij^. 

Item,  I  bequethe  to  the  emendyng  of  the  cherch  of 
Gresham  a  chesiple  and  an  awbe.^ 

And  I  wuUe  that  ich  pore  houshold  that  be  my  tenauntes 
there  have  Y]d. 

Item,  I  wuUe  that  ich  pore  houshold  late  my  tenauntes  at 
Spar  ham  have  Y]d, 

Item,  to  the  reparacion  of  the  cherch  of  Redham  there  as  I 
was  borne  I  bequeth  v.  marc  and  a  chesiple  of  silk  with  an 
awbe  with  myn  armes  therupon  to  the  emendement  of  the 
same  cherche.^ 

1  In  margin,  *v//.  \}s.  viijt/.'     This  and  the  marginal  notes  which  follow  are  all  in 
John  Paston's  hand. 

2  In  margin,  *  xvjj.  vn]d.''  ^  Ibid,  *  Ibid.  ^  Ibid. 
6  In  margin,  *v/f.' 

48 


EDWARD  IV 

Item,  to  iche  of  the  iiij.  houshes  of  Freres  in  Norwich,    1482 

XXS.  FEB.  4 

Item,  to  iche  of  the  iiij.  houshes  of  Freres  of  Yermouth 
and  at  the  South  toun  to  pray  for  my  sowle  I  bequeth  xxj. 

Item,  to  the  ankeres  at  the  Frere  Prechours  in  Norwich  I 
bequeth  iijj.  iiij^. 

And  to  the  ankeres  in  Conesford  I  bequeth  iijj.  iiij^. 

Item,  to  the  anker  at  the  White  Freres  in  Norwich  I 
bequethe  iijj.  iiij^. 

Item,  to  iche  hole  and  half  susters  at  Normans  in  Nor- 
wich, viij^. 

Item,  to  the  Deen  and  his  bretheren  of  the  Chepell  of 
Feld,  to  the  use  of  the  same  place  to  seye  a  dirige  and  a  masse 
for  my  sowle,  xxj. 

Item,  to  the  hospitalle  of  Seint  Gile  in  Norwich,  also  for 
a  i^irige  and  a  masse  for  my  sowle,  xxj. 

Item,  to  iche  of  the  iiij.  pore  meen,  and  to  either  of  the 
susters  of  the  seid  hospitall,  ij//. 

Item,  to  the  mother  cherche  of  Norwiche  for  a  dirige  and 
masse,  xxj. 

Item,  to  iche  lepre  man  and  woman  at  the  v.  Yates  in 
Norwich,  iij^. 

And  to  iche  forgoer  at  every  of  the  seid  yates,  ij^. 

Item,  to  iche  lepre  without  the  North  gates  at  Yermouth, 
iij^. ;  and  to  the  forgoer  ther,  ij^. 

Item,  to  iche  houshold  of  the  parish  of  Seint  Peter  of  Hun- 
gate  in  Norwich  that  wull  receyve  almes,  have  iiij^. 

Item,  I  wull  have  a  dirige  and  a  masse  for  my  sowle  at 
the  parisshe  cherche  of  Seint  Michael  of  Coslany  in  Norwich, 
and  that  every  preste  ther  havyng  his  stipend  being  therat 
have  iiij^.,  and  iche  clerk  in  surplys  of  the  same  parissh  than 
ther  being  have  ij^.,  and  the  parissh  clerk  vj^.,  and  the  curat 
that  shall  seye  high  masse  have  xx<^.,  and  I  bequeth  to  the 
reparacion  of  the  bellys  of  the  same  cherche  vjj.  viij^., 
and  to  the  sexteyn  there  to  rynge  at  the  seid  iimge  and  masse, 
xx^. 

Item,  I  wull  that  myn  executours  shall  geve  to  the  susten- 
tacion  of  the  parson  or  preste  that  shall  for  the  tyme  mynystre 

VOL.  VI. — D  49 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1482  the  sacramentez  and  divine  service  in  the  cherch  of  Seint  Petre 
FEB.  4  of  Hungate  in  Norwich,  xx//.  of  lawful!  money  ;  ^  whiche  xxli, 
I  will  it  be  putt  in  the  rule  and  disposicion  of  the  cherch  reves 
of  the  same  cherche  for  the  tyme  being  by  the  oversight  of 
the  substancialle  persones  of  the  seid  parissh,  to  this  intent, 
that  the  seid  cherch  reves,  by  the  oversight  as  is  before-seid, 
shall  yerly  yeve,  if  it  so  be  that  the  profites  of  the  seid  cherch 
suffice  not  to  fynde  a  prest  after  ther  discrecions,  part  of  the 
seid  xxli,  to  the  seid  parson  or  preste,  unto  the  seid  xxli,  be 
expended. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  Edmund  Paston,  my  sone,  a  standing 
pece  white  covered,  with  a  white  garleek  heed  upon  the  knoppe, 
and  a  gilt  pece  covered  with  an  unicorne,  a  fetherbedde  and  a 
traumsom  at  Norwich,  and  the  costers^  of  worsted  that  he 
hath  of  me. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  Katerine  his  wifF  a  purpill  girdill 
harneisid  with  silver  and  gilt  and  my  bygge  bras  chafour,  a 
brasen  morter  with  an  iren  pestell,  and  a  stoon  morter  of 
cragge. 

Item,  I  yeve  and  graunte  to  Robert,  sone  of  the  seid 
Edmund,  alle  my  swannes  morken  with  the  merke  called 
Dawbeneys  merk,  and  with  the  merk  late  Robert  Cutler, 
clerk,  to  have  hold  and  enjoye  the  seid  swannes  with  the  seid 
merkes  to  the  seid  Robert  and  his  heirs  for  evermore. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  Anne,  my  doughter,  wiff  of  William 
Yelverton,  my  grene  hangyng  in  my  parlour  at  Mauteby,  a 
standing  cuppe  with  a  cover  gilt  with  a  flatte  knoppe  and  a 
flatte  pece  with  a  cover  gilt  withoute,  xij.  silver  spones,  a 
powder  boxe  with  a  foot  and  a  knoppe  enamelled  blewe,  my 
best  corse  girdill  blewe  herneised  with  silver  and  gilt,  my 
primer,  my  bedes  of  silver  enamelled. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  the  seid  Anne,  my  fetherbedde  with 
sill  our, ^  curteyns  and  tester  *  in  my  parlour  at  Mauteby,  with 
a  white  covering,  a  peire  blankettes,  ij.  peire  of  my  fynest 
shetes  iche  of  iij.  webbes,  a  fyne  hedshete  of  ij.  webbes,  my 

1  In  margin,  *  xx// .' 

2  Pieces  of  tapestry  used  on  the  sides  of  tables,  beds,  etc. — HalUnxjell. 

2  Canopy  of  tapestry.  4  Head  of  the  bedstead. 

50 


EDWARD  IV 

best  garnyssh  of  pewter  vessell,  ij.  basyns  with  ij.  ewres,  iij.  1482 
candelstekes  of  oon  sorte,  ij.  bras  pottes,  ij.  bras  pannes,  a  bras  *"eb.  4 
chafour  to  sett  by  the  fyre,  and  a  chafour  for  colys. 

Item,  I  require  myn  executours  to  paie  to  the  seid  William 
Yelverton  and  Anne  the  money  that  I  shall  owe  them  of  ther 
mariage  money  the  day  of  my  decesse  of  such  money  as  shalbe 
recey  ved  of  such  londes  as  I  have  putte  in  fefFement  to  accom- 
plissh  my  wille. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  William  Paston,  my  sone  my  standing 
cuppe  chased  parcell  gilt  with  a  cover  with  myn  armes  in  the 
botom  and  a  flatte  pece  with  a  trail!  upon  the  cover,  xij.  silver 
spones,  ij.  silver  saltes  wherof  oon  is  covered  the  hole  bedde 
of  borde  alisaundre  as  it  hangeth  on  the  gret  chaumber  at 
Mauteby,  with  the  fetherbedde,  bolster,  blankettes,  and  cover- 
yng  to  the  same,  ij.  peire  shetes,  ij.  pilwes,  and  my  best  palet, 
a  basyn,  an  ewre,  and  a  litel  white  bedde  that  hangeth  over  the 
gresyngges  in  the  litell  chaumber  at  Mauteby  for  a  trussyng 
bedde. 

Item,  I  bequeth  an  C.  marc  in  money  to  be  paied  and  be- 
stowed to  the  use  and  byhofF  of  the  seid  William  Paston  after 
this  forme  folowyng  ;  that  is  to  sey,  in  purchasyng  of  as 
moche  lond  to  him  and  to  his  heires  as  may  be  had  with  the 
same  money,  or  ellys  to  bye  a  warde  to  be  maried  to  him  if 
eny  suche  may  be  goten,  or  ellys  to  be  paied  to  him  assone  as 
it  may  be  convenyently  gadered  and  receyved  of  sucche  londes 
as  by  me  are  put  in  fefFement  as  is  beforseid  after  the  ele  in 
Mauteby  cherche  be  fynsshed  and  performed  as  is  beforseid, 
and  after  the  stipend  of  the  preste  lymyted  to  singe  for  me  be 
yerly  levied,  as  well  as  the  money  be  dispcnded  upon  the  kep- 
ing  of  my  yerly  obite.  And  if  the  seid  William  dye  or  he 
come  to  the  age  of  xxj.  yer,  than  the  seid  C.  marc  to  be  dis- 
posed for  the  wele  of  my  sowle  by  myn  executours. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  John  Paston  my  sone  a  gilt  cuppe 
standyng  with  a  cover  and  a  knoppe  liche  a  garkeek  heed,  vj. 
gobelettes  of  silver  with  oon  cover. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  Margery  Paston,  the  wif  of  the  seid 
John,  my  pixt  of  silver  with  ij.  silver  cruettes  and  my  masse- 
book  with  all  myn  awterclothes. 

51 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1482  Item,-^  I  bequeth  to  William  Paston,  sone  of  the  seid  John 

FEB.  4  Paston,  and  Elizabeth  his  suster,  C.  marc  whan  they  come  to 
laufuU  age,  to  be  take  and  receyved  of  the  londes  beforseid  ; 
and  if  either  of  them  die  or  they  come  to  the  seid  age,  than  I 
wuU  that  the  part  of  him  or  hir  so  deying  remayne  to  the 
survyver  of  them  at  laufull  age,  and  if  they  bothe  dye  or  they 
come  to  the  seid  age,  than  I  wull  that  the  seid  C.  marc  be 
disposed  for  the  helth  of  my  sowle  by  th'avise  of  myn 
executours. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  Custaunce,  bastard  doughter  of  John 
Paston,  Knyght,  whan  she  is  xx.  yer  of  age,  x.  marc,  and  if 
she  die  bifore  the  seid  age,  than  I  wull  that  the  seid  x.  marc 
be  disposed  by  myn  executours. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  John  Calle,  sone  of  Margery  my 
doughter,  xx//.  whan  he  cometh  to  the  age  of  xxiiij.  yer,  and 
if  the  seid  John  dye  or  he  cometh  to  the  seid  age,  than  I  wull 
that  the  seid  xx//.  evenly  be  divided  attwen  WilUam  and 
Richard,  sones  of  the  seid  Margery,  whan  they  come  to  the 
age  of  xxiiij.  yer  ;  and  if  either  of  the  seid  William  and 
Richard  dye  or  he  come  to  the  seid  age,  than  I  wull  that  the 
part  of  him  so  dying  remayne  to  the  survyver  ;  and  if  bothe 
the  seid  William  and  Richard  dye  or  the  come  to  the  seid  age, 
than  I  wull  that  the  seid  xx//.  be  disposed  by  the  good  advys 
of  myne  executours  for  me  and  my  frendes. 

Item,  I  bequethe  to  Marie  Tendalle,  my  goddoughter,  my 
peir  bedys  of  calcidenys  gaudied  ^  with  silver  and  gilt. 

Item,  I  wull  that  iche  of  myn  other  godchilder  be  rewarded 
by  th'avyse  of  John  Paston,  my  sone. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  Agnes  Swan  my  servaunt,  my  muster- 
develys  gown  furred  with  blak,  and  a  girdell  of  blak  harneised 
with  silver  gilt  and  enamelled,  and  xxj.  in  money. 

Item,  to  Simon  Gerard  my  silver  gobelet  cured  and  a  flatt 
pece  with  verges  gilt,  and  myn  hole  litel  white  bedde  in  my  chapell 
chaumber  at  Mauteby  with  the  fetherbedde  liche  as  it  is  nowe 

1  Opposite  this  paragraph  is  written  in  the  margin  in  John  Paston's  hand :  *  C. 
marke.     Soluf  E.  P.  /.  marke.' 

2  Halliwell  explains  *  gaudees  '  as  *  the  larger  beads  in  a  roll  for  prayer.'    Accord- 
ing to  Palsgrave  they  represented  the  Paternoster. 

52 


EDWARD  IV 

in  the  seid  chapell,  with  a  peire  blankettes,  a  peire  shetes,  and     1482 
a  pilwe  of  doune.  "b.  4 

Item,  to  John  Heyth  a  materas  with  a  traunsom,  a  peire 
shetes,  a  peire  blankettes,  and  a  coverlight. 

Item,  I  wull  that  myn  housholt  be  kept  after  my  decesse 
by  half  a  yer,  and  that  my  servauntes  wages  be  truly  paied  at 
ther  departing,  and  also  that  every  persone  being  my  servaunt 
the  day  of  my  decesse  have  a  quarter  wages  beside  that  they  at 
her  departing  have  do  service  fore. 

Item,  I  wull  that  alle  suche  maners,  londes,  and  tenementes, 
rentes  and  services  whiche  are  descended  unto  me  by  weye  of 
inheritaunce  immediatly  after  my  decesse  remayne  unto  myn 
heires  accordyng  to  the  last  wille  of  Robert  Mauteby,  Squier, 
my  grauntfader,  except  suche  londes  as  I  have  putte  in  feffe- 
ment  to  accomplissh  therof  my  last  wille,  and  except  v.  marc 
of  annuyte  which  I  have  graunted  out  of  the  maner  of  Freton 
in  Suffolk  to  Edmund  Paston,  my  sone,  Katherine  his  wifF,  and 
Robert,  ther  sone,  for  terme  of  ther  lyves. 

Item,  I  bequeth  to  Anne,  my  doughter,  x//.  to  hir  propre 
use. 

And  to  Osbern  Berney  x.  marc  of  the  money  comyng  of 
the  londes  by  me  put  in  feffement  as  is  beforseid. 

Item,  I  wull  that  the  residewe  of  the  stuffe  of  myn  houshold 
unbiquothen  be  divided  equally  betwen  Edmund  and  William, 
my  sones,  and  Anne,  my  doughter. 

The  residewe  of  all  my  godes  and  catalle  and  dettes  to  me 
owing  I  yeve  and  comitte  to  the  good  disposicion  of  myn 
executours  to  performe  this  my  testament  and  last  wille,  and 
in  other  dedes  of  mercye  for  my  sowle,  myn  aunceterez  sowlez, 
and  alle  Cristen  sowles,  to  the  most  pleaser  of  God  and  profit 
to  my  sowle. 

Of  this  my  testament,  I  make  and  ordeyne  the  seid  John 
Paston,  Squier,  my  sone,  Thomas  Drentall,  clerk,  Simon  Gerard 
and  Walter  Lymyngton  myn  executours. 

And  I  bequeth  to  the  seid  John  Paston  for  his  labour  x//. 

And  to  iche  of  myn  other  executours  for  their  labour  v.  marc. 

In  witnesse  wherof  to  this  my  present  testament  I  have 
putto  my  seal.     Yevyn  day  and  yer  biforseid. 

53 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

979 

JOHN  PASTON  TO  MARGARET  PASTON  ^ 

q'o  my  ryght  worchepfull  modyr^  Margaret  Paston, 

i482(?)  TT^  YGHT  worchepfull  modyr,  in  my  most  humble  wyse  I 
1^  recomand  me  to  yow,  besechyng  yow  of  your  dayly 
-*■  ^  blyssyng.  And  when  I  may,  I  wyll  with  as  good  wyll 
be  redy  to  recompence  yow  for  the  cost  that  my  huswyfF  and  I 
have  put  yow  to,  as  I  am  now  bond  to  thank  yow  for  it,  whyche 
I  do  in  the  best  wyse  I  can.  And,  modyr,  it  pleasyd  yow  to 
have  serteyn  woordys  to  my  wyfF  at  hyr  depertyng,  towchyng 
your  remembrance  of  the  shortness  that  ye  thynk  your  dayes 
of,  and  also  of  the  mynd  that  ye  have  towardes  my  brethryn 
and  systyr  your  chyldyr,  and  also  of  your  servauntes,  wher  in 
ye  wyllyd  hyr  to  be  a  meane  to  me,  that  I  wold  tendyr  and 
favore  the  same.  Modyr,  savyng  your  plesure,  ther  nedyth 
non  enbasatours  nor  meanys  betwyx  yow  and  me  ;  for  ther  is 
neyther  wyfF  nor  other  frend  shall  make  me  to  do  that  that 
your  comandment  shall  make  me  to  do,  if  I  may  have  know- 
lage  of  it ;  and  if  I  have  no  knowlage,  in  good  feyth  I  am 
excuseabyll  bothe  to  God  and  yow.  And,  well  remembred,  I 
wot  well  ye  ought  not  to  have  me  in  jelusye  for  one  thyng  nor 
other  that  ye  wold  have  me  to  accomplyshe,  if  I  overleve  yow  ; 
for  I  wot  well  non  oo  man  a  lyve  hathe  callyd  so  oft  upon  yow 
as  I,  to  make  your  wylle  and  put  iche  thyng  in  serteynte,  that 
ye  wold  have  done  for  your  sylff,  and  to  your  chyldre  and 
servauntes.  Also  at  the  makyng  of  your  wylle,  and  at  every 
comunycacyon  that  I  have  ben  at  with  yow  towchyng  the  same, 
I  nevyr  contraryed  thyng  that  ye  wold  have  doon  and  per- 
formyd,  but  alweyso  iffyrd  my  sylfF  to  be  bownde  to  the  same. 
But,  modyr,  I  am  ryght  glad  that  my  wyfF  is  eny  thyng  your 
favore  or  trust ;  but  I  am  ryght  sory  that  my  wyfF,  or  ^ny 
other  chyld  or  servaunt  of  your  shold  be  in  bettyr  favore  or 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     This  letter,  which  was  undoubtedly  written  during 
the  later  years  of  Margaret  Paston,  may  be  conveniently  placed  after  her  will. 

54 


EDWARD  IV 

trist  with  yow  then  my  sylfF;  for  I  wyll  and  must  forbere  and  I482(?) 
put  fro  me  that,  that  all  your  other  chyldre,  servauntes,  prestys, 
werkmen,  and  frendys  of  your  that  ye  wyll  ought  bequethe  to, 
shall  take  to  theym.  And  thys  have  I,  and  evyr  wylbe  redy 
on  to,  whyll  I  leve,  on  my  feyth,  and  nevyr  thought  other,  so 
God  be  my  helpe.  Whom  I  beseche  to  preserve  yow  and  send 
yow-so  good  lyfF  and  longe,  that  ye  may  do  for  youre  sylfF  and 
me  aftyr  my  dyssease  ;  and  I  beshrewe  thcr  hertys  that  wold 
other  or  shall  cause  yow  to  mystrust,  or  to  be  unkynd  to  me 
or  my  frendys. 

At  Norwyche,  thys  Monday,  with  the  hand  of  your  sone 
and  trwest  servaunt, 

John  Paston. 

980 
T.  CRYNE  TO  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  wurshepfull  and  tendrest  maister^  John  Faston^  Esquyer, 

RIGH  wurshepfulle,  one  of  my  most  kyndest  and  tenderest,  1482 
and  undeserved  most  contynuell  maister,  I  recomaunde  april  10 
me  to  you.  And  where  your  trusty  maistershep  wiUeth 
me  to  come  to  Norwich,  pleas  it  you  I  may  not ;  for  ever,  as 
in  long  tyme  passed,  on  Thursday  in  Esterne  Weke,  begynne 
Maister  Heydons  courtes  and  letes,  the  vieu  of  the  halfyere  of 
the  houshold  accompte,  the  closyng  up  fynally  of  th'accomptes 
of  alle  baillievs,  so  that  the  resceyvour  may  make  his  fynall 
accompte,  which  wille  extende  in  alle  to  xiiij.  dayes  and  more  ; 
and  to  this  season  is  my  duete,  and  elles  I  shulde  not  faill 
your  pleasure. 

Moreover,  pleas  it  you,  my  Lord  Riviers  in  his  owne 
persone  hath  bene  atte  Hikelyng,  and  his  counseill  lerned,  and 
serched  his  fees  for  his  homages,  among  which  ye  be  for 
Begvyles  pasture  in  Somerton,  and,  I  suppose,  Wynterton, 
late  Sir  John  Fastolfes ;  my  maistres  your  modre  for  Mawte- 
byes  in  Waxham  ;  wherein  I  beseche  you  previde,  for  1  have 
done   therein    hertofore,    asfer    as   I    myght,   &c.       What   it 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

55 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1482    meneth,  my  lord  is  sette  sore  to  appro wement  and  husbondry. 
APRIL  10  His  counseill  hath  tolde  him  he  may  sette  his  fynes  for  respite 
of  homage  at  his  pleasure,  &c. 

I  besech  you  my  maistresse  may  have  worde  of  this.  And 
oure  blessed  Lord  ever  mutte  preserve  you,  and  be  your 
governour  and  defender. 

Wreten  at  Thorplond,  this  Wednesday  in  Esterne  Weke, 
fallyng  the  x.  day  of  Apr  ill,  anno  E.  iiij'^  xxij. 

Your  ser vaunt,  T.  Cryne. 


981 

ABSTRACT! 

OCT.  9  Grant  by  Margaret  Paston  to  her  son  Edmund  and  his  wife  Catherine  and 

to  Robert  their  son,  of  an  annuity  of  five  marks  out  of  the  manor  of  Freton, 
Suffolk,  with  power  to  distrain  for  payment. 
9  Oct.  22  Edw.  IV. 


982 
MARGERY  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  2 

'To  my  right  worship  full  master^  John  Paston^  in  haste, 

1482  (?)   I  )  IGHT  reverent  and  worshipful!  sir,  in  my  moste  umble 

NOV.  I      r\      vice,  I  recomaunde  me  unto  yow,  as  lowly  as  I  can,  &c. 

•^  ^     Plese  you  to  wete,  John  Howes,  Alexander  Qwharteyn, 

John  Fille,  with  the  parson  and  the  newe  myller  of  Marlyng- 

forthe,  have  goten  Thom'  At  Welles  carte  of  Estetodenham, 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  Ibid.  This  letter,  it  will  be  seen,  must  have  been  written  before  the 
death  of  Margaret  Paston  in  1484,  and  from  what  is  stated  in  No.  953,  it  is  certainly 
not  earlier  than  1479.  The  date,  moreover,  must  be  between  1480  and  1482,  for  it  is 
stated  that  the  outrages  here  complained  of  occurred  on  the  Monday  and  Tuesday 
before  the  letter  was  written  ;  and  in  the  next  letter  we  find  that  there  was  a  new 
outrage  of  the  same  description  on  Friday.  If  Hallowmas  Day,  the  date  of  this  letter, 
was  a  Wednesday,  the  year  must  be  1480,  if  a  Thursday  148 1,  and  if  Friday  1482. 
We  are  rather  inclined  to  think  it  was  the  latter. 

56 


EDWARD  IV  , 

fermour  to  myn  uncle  William  Paston,  Herry  Hervy  of  I482(?) 
Meelton  Magna,  fermour  and  baly  to  my  seide  uncle,  Ric.  nov.  i 
Barkers  carte  of  the  seide  towne  of  Meelton,  late  fermour,  and 
yette  is  in  daunger  to  ^  my  seide  uncle,  and  William  Smythes 
carte  of  Brandon  juxta  Bernham  Broom,  late  fermour  and  baly, 
and  also  in  daunger  to  ^  my  seide  uncle,  on  Monday  and  Twes- 
day  last  past,  caryed  a  wey  from  Merlyngforth  in  to  the  place 
at  Seint  Edmondes  in  Norwich,  xij.  of  yowr  greete  plankes,  of 
the  weche  they  made  vj.  loodes,  beryng  a  bowte  the  seide 
cartes,  bowes  and  gleves,  for  feere  of  takyng  a  wey.  Sir,  as 
for  yowr  servauntes  of  Marlyngforth,  they  withholde  her  catell 
and  hem  selfe  bothe  from  the  coorte,  and  come  not  within  the 
lordship,  nor  make  noon  attornment,  exept  Thom*  Davy  and 
John  Water,  weche  absentyng  of  the  tenauntes  is  to  them  a 
greet  hurt  and  los,  for  lak  of  sedyng  ther  londes  with  ther 
wynter  corn  ;  besechyng  you  for  Godes  sake  to  remembre  som 
remedy  for  them. 

My  Lady  Caltorp  hath  ben  at  Geppeswich  on  pilgry 
mache,  and  came  homward  be  my  Lady  of  NorfFolk,  and  ther 
was  moche  communicacion  of  yowr  mater  be  twix  you  and 
myn  uncle,  seyng  to  my  Lady  Caltorp,  ye  nede  not  a  gonne 
to  London,  ye  myght  have  an  ende  at  home  ;  rememberyng 
to  my  seid  Lady  Caltorp  of  the  mocion  that  he  made  towchyng 
the  maner  of  Sporle,  promyttyng  to  my  lady  to  abyde  that, 
and  to  write  and  seale  as  largely  as  any  man  wol  desire  hym. 
And  at  his  departyng  from  my  lady  he  was  not  mery,  what 
the  cauce  was  1  wot  not  [but  he  was  not  mery  of  your  depart- 
yng].^ My  Lady  Cal thorp  desireth  me  to  write  to  yow  to 
have  ende,  for  he  intendes  largely  to  have  a  peace  with  yow, 
as  he  seth  ;  but  truste  hym  not  to  moche,  for  he  is  not  goode. 

My  mother  in  lawe  thynketh  longe  she  here  no  word  from 
you.  She  is  in  goode  heele,  blissed  be  God,  and  al  yowr 
babees  also.  I  mervel  I  here  no  word  from  you,  weche 
greveth  me  ful  evele  ;  I  sent  you  a  letter  be  Brasiour  sone 
of  Norwiche,   wher   of  I   here  no  word.     No  more  to  you 


1  *In  danger  to'  signifies  either  In  debt  or  otherwise   responsible   to   another 

57 


person. 

*  These  words  are  crossed  out  in  the  ms. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I482(?)at  this  tyme,  but  Almyghty  Jesu  have   you  in  Hes  blissed 
NOV.  I    kepyng. 

Wreten  at  Norwich,  on  Allowmes  Day  at  nyght. 
Be  yowr  servaunt  and  bedewoman, 

Margery  Paston. 

Sir,  T  prey  yow,  if  ye  tary  longe  at  London,  that  it  wil 
plese  to  sende  for  me,  for  I  thynke  longe  sen  I  lay  in  yowr 
armes. 


983 

MARGERY  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

q'o  my  ryght  wurchupfull  maysteVy  John  Paston^  EsquyeVy 
be  this  letter  delyverd  in  hast. 

NOV.  [3]  "^  yf'YNE  owyn  swete  hert,  in  my  most  humylwyse,  I 
^1  recomaund  me  on  to  you,  desyryng  hertly  to  here 
of  your  welfar,  the  wheche  I  beseche  AUe  myghty 
God  preserve  and  kepe  to  His  plesur,  and  your  hertes  desyer. 

Ser,  the  cause  of  my  wrytyng  to  you  at  this  tyme  :  on 
Friday  att  nyght  last  past  come  Alexander  Wharton,  John 
Hous,  and  John  Fille,  with  ij.  good  carts  well  mannyd  and 
horsyd  with  hem  to  Marlyngford,  and  there  at  the  maner  of 
Malyngford  and  at  the  mille  lodyn  bothe  cartes  with  mestlyon^ 
and  whete,  and  betymys  on  Saturday,  in  the  mornyng,  they 
departyd  fro  Marlyngford  towardes  Bongey,  as  it  is  seyd  ;  for 
the  seyd  cartes  come  fro  Bongey,  as  I  soppose,  by  the  send- 
ynge  of  Bryon,  for  he  goth  hastyly  over  the  se,  as  it  is  seyd. 
And  as  I  suppose  he  wyll  have  the  mestlyon  over  with  hym,  for 
the  most  part  of  the  cart  loodes  was  mestlyon,  &:c. 

Item,  ser,  on  Saturday  last  past,  I  spacke  with  my  cosyn 
Gornay,  and  he  seyd,  if  I  wold  goo  to  my  Lady  of  NorfFolk, 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     For  evidence  of  date,  see  preliminary  note  to  last 
letter. 

2  Mixed  com,  commonly  rye  and  wheat,  which  were  most  in  demand  to  make 
bread  of. 

58 


EDWARD  IV 

and  beseche  hyr  good  grace  to  be  your  good  and  gracyous  1482  (?) 
lady,  she  wold  so  be,  for  he  seyd  that  one  word  of  a  woman  nov.  [3] 
should  do  more  than  the  wordes  of  xx.  men,  yifFc  I  coudc 
rewyll  my  tonge,  and  speke  non  harme  of  myn  unkyll.  And 
if  ye  comaund  me  so  for  to  do,  I  trist  I  shuld  sey  nothynge  to 
my  ladys  displesure,  but  to  your  profyt ;  for  me  thynkyth  bi 
the  wordes  of  them  and  of  your  good  fermore  of  Oxned,  that 
thei  wyll  sone  drawe  to  an  ende.  For  he  cursyth  the  tyme 
that  ever  he  come  in  the  ferme  of  Oxned,  for  he  seyth  that 
he  wotyth  well  that  he  shall  have  a  grette  losse,  and  yet  he 
wyll  not  be  a  knowyn  wheder  he  hathe  payd  or  nought ;  but 
whan  he  sethe  his  tyme,  he  wyll  sey  trowth. 

I  understond  by  my  seyd  cosyn  Gornay  that  my  lady  is 
nere  wery  of  hyr  parte,  and  he  seyth  my  lady  shal  come  on 
pylgremage  in  to  this  towne,  but  he  knowth  not  wheder  afore 
Cristmes  or  aftyr ;  and  if  I  wold  thanne  gete  my  Lady 
Calthorpe,  my  moder  in  lawe,  and  my  moder,  and  myselfe, 
and  come  before  my  lady,  besechyng  hyr  to  be  your  good  and 
gracyous  lady,  he  thynkyth  ye  shuU  have  an  ende  ;  for  fayne 
she  wold  be  redde  of  it  with  hyr  onowr  savyd,  but  yette  money 
she  wold  have. 

No  more  to  you  at  this  tyme,  butte  I  mervell  sore  that  I 
have  no  letter  from  you,  but  I  prey  God  preserve  you,  and 
send  me  good  tydynges  from  you,  and  spede  you  well  in  your 
materes.  And  as  for  me,  I  have  gotyn  me  anothyr  logyn 
felawe,  the  ferst  letter  of  hyr  name  is  Mastras  Byschoppe. 
She  recomaundyth  hyr  to  you  by  the  same  tokyn  that  ye  wold 
have  had  a  tokyn  to  my  Mayster  Bryon. 

Att  Norwych,  the  Sonday  next  after  the  Fest  of  All 
Seyntes. 

Be  yowr  servaunt  and  bedewoman, 

Margery  Paston. 


59 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


984 

B.  R.  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

^0  the  right  worshipfull  John  Paston^  squier^  with 
my  lord  Chamburlayn. 

^479"  I )  IGHT  worshipfull  sir,  y  recommaunde  me  to  you,  as 
83  rV  hartily  as  y  can,  desiring  to  undrestand  zour  welefare, 
^  ^  and  also  to  knowe  somwhat  certainly  hou  your  matier 
do  the  with  your  uncle,  and  hou  fer  ye  be,  for  in  thes  parties  y 
assertayne  you,  moche  mater  is  shewed  and  proclaimed  in 
worshipful  presence,  fer  fro  th*entent  of  your  welewillers,  of 
the  discorage  and  reprofe  in  maner  of  you,  and  by  such  as 
men  supposed  you  to  have  ben  right  wele  favoured  with,  and 
the  contrary  shewed  in  the  presence  of  right  worshipfull,  and 
right  many,  and  as  it  is  said,  iij.  scor  in  nombre,  with  such 
termes  and  under  such  forme,  as  it  is  reported,  as  is  full  hevy 
to  diverse  here  for  to  here.  Hou  it  is  ye  knowe  beste,  and 
hou  it  is  I  pray  you  lete  your  frendis  in  this  cuntre  undirstand  ; 
for  right  a  worshipfull  persone  told  me  of  this,  to  the  which 
y  coude  not  answer,  I  se  al  day  the  world  so  unsure.  But, 
Sir,  ye  did  of  policy  some  thingis  that  peradventure,  and  it 
were  to  do,  ye  wold  take  anothir  avise,  &c.  I  can  nomore  but 
sapienti  pauca^  &c.  And  I  biseche  you.  Sir,  send  me  some 
tidingis  of  the  parties  beyonde  the  se,  for  owr  wyves  here 
speke  of  many  thingis,  &c.  Moreovir,  Sir,  Margarete  Ronhale 
told  me  late  that  my  maistres  your  wif  fareth  wele,  blissed  be 
Almighti  God,  and  all  your  other  frendis  here,  blissed  be  God. 
Sir,  it  is  so  that,  as  y  am  enformed,  there  is  a  soudiour  of 
Caleis  called  John  Jacob,  of  olde  tyme  duelling  in  Lynne.^  I 
pray  you  to  inquir  secretly  what  maner  man  he  ys,  and  in 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  220.]  This  letter  is  probably  late  in  the  reign  of 
Edward  iv.  John  Paston  would  seem  to  have  entered  the  service  of  Hastings, 
the  Lord  Chamberlain,  some  time  after  the  death  of  his  brother  Sir  John  in  1479. 
See  No.  993. 

2  Against  this  passage  in  the  margin  is  written  in  another  hand : — *  M^.  pro 
Barnard.' 

60 


EDWARD  IV 

what  condicion  there,  for  I  know  a  man  hath  to  do  with  him  ;  1479- 
but  be  ye  beknowen  of  no  thinge,  but  that  ye  list  wisely  to  83 
enquere  what  he  is  and  of  what  condicion,  &c.  And  if  there 
be  any  thing  in  thies  parties  that  y  can  do  you  service  yn,  I 
pray  you  commaunde  you,  and  I  shalbe  as  redy  to  the  accom- 
plisshment  therof  to  my  power,  as  any  man  lyvyng  ;  and  that 
knowith  God,  Who  I  biseche  to  send  me  good  tidingis  fro 
you,  and  you  your  noble  desires.     From  Weston. — By  yours, 

B.  R. 

985 
WILLIAM  PASTON  AND  SIR  JOHN  FASTOLFi 

TO  alle  maner  of  pepill  to  whome  this  present  wrytyng 
shall  come  unto,  se,  or  here,  we,  William  Barker,  late 
of  Blofeld,  in  the  cownte  of  NorfFolk,  dark,  and 
Margret  Wyssetour,  wedow,  late  the  wyf  of  William  Wyssetyr,  - 
late  of  Pokethorp,  be  Norwich,  gentylman,  dyssesid,  send 
gretyng  in  our  Lord  God  Everlastyng. 

For  as  meche  as  it  is  merytory  to  wytnesse  and  testyfy  the 
treuth  in  materes  dowtabill  or  beyng  in  varyaunce,  whan  ony 
persons  is  lefully  ther  to  requyred.  It  is  so  that  I,  the  seid 
William  Barker,  was  late  howshold  servaunte  be  the  space  of 
xxj.  yere  with  Sir  John  Fastolf,  Knyght,  dyssesid,  and  had 
wedded  Annes,  late  dyssesid,  that  was  the  hoole  syster,  bothe 
on  to  Sir  Thomas  Howes,  clerk,  dyssesid,  and  also  hoole  syster 
to  Isabell,  modyr  to  the  seid  Margret  Wyssetyr,  which  forseid 
Thomas  Howys  and  William  Wyssetyr  were  bothe  howshold - 

1  [Add.  Charter  17,256,  B.M.]  This  declaration  was  drawn  up  after  the  death 
of  William  Worcester,  and  perhaps  after  that  of  William  Paston  also.  The  exact 
date  of  Worcester's  death  is  uncertain.  We  only  know  that  he  was  alive  as  late  as 
1480,  when  he  visited  Oxford  on  his  travels  and  measured  some  of  the  churches  there 
(see  his  Itinerariunty  296),  and  that  he  was  dead  in  Richard  iii.'s  time.  The 
document,  however,  may  be  conveniently  placed  at  the  end  of  the  reign  of  Edward  iv. 
The  original  MS.  is  a  sheet  of  paper  mutilated  on  the  right-hand  side  towards  the  end. 
The  seals  of  William  Barker  and  Margaret  Worcester  are  attached  by  tails  of  parch- 
ment to  a  parchment  binding  at  the  bottom.  On  the  back  is  written  in  a  more 
modem  hand  : — *  A  Testymonyall  that  William  Paston,  Gent.,  was  kinsman  to  Sir 
Jo.  Fastolf,  and  other  matters  within  concernyng  the  landes  somtyme  Holhams  in 
Caster,  afterwardes  the  sayd  William  Paston.' 

61 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

servauntes  many  yerys  to  the  seid  Sir  John  Fastolf,  and  were 
with  hym  in  such  syngler  trust  that  he  made  them  bothe  his 
feofFes  in  alle  his  landes  with  in  the  reame  of  Ynglond,  and 
also  his  exsecutores  :  Be  it  knowen  to  alle  maner  persons  that 
we,  the  seid  William  Barker  and  Margret  Wyssetyr,  testyfy,- 
depose,  and  wytnesse  for  trouthe  that  we  have  full  serteyn 
prof  and  knowlache  that  William  Paston,  of  the  seid  counte  of 
NoriFolk,  jentylman,  was  kynnysman  unto  the  seid  Sir  John 
Fastolf,  and  was  with  hym  in  ryght  syngler  gode  favour  and 
trust ;  wherupon  the  seid  Sir  John  Fastolf  made  ,the  seid 
William  Paston  one  of  his  seid  feofFes  in  all  his  seyd  maneres, 
londes,  and  tenementes,  rentes,  and  servyces  with  in  this  seid 
reame  of  Ynglond,  and  made  this  seid  William  prevy  to  many 
of  his  materys  of  gret  charge,  and  putt  the  seid  William  Paston 
to  many  lawbores  in  his  lyf,  which  the  seid  William  Paston 
ded  of  gode  love  and  kynd  dysposycion,  for  he  never  had  of 
the  seid  Sir  John  Fastolf  fee  ne  reward  in  hys  lyf ;  notwith- 
stondyng  he  had  for  the  seid  Syr  John  Fastolf  and  for  his 
materes  many  grete  lawboures,  costes,  jornays,  and  besynesse 
in  the  lyf  of  the  seid  Sir  John  Fastolf,  and  ded  for  hym  many 
kynd  dedes  at  his  owne  charge,  for  the  which  the  seid  Sir 
John,  and  he  had  contenuyd  lyfF,  wold  have  largely  have 
recompensed.  And  also  the  seid  William  Paston  had,  aftir 
the  desesse  of  the  seid  Sir  John  Fastolf,  at  the  desyr  and 
instans  of  the  exsecutores  of  the  seid  Syr  John,  had  many  gret 
lawboures,  costes,  and  jurnays  to  his  gret  peyne,  as  well  in 
rydyng  to  London  many  and  sundry  tymes,  contenuyng  many 
yeres  to  help  suche  materes  as  were  devysyd  ayens  the  seid 
exsecutors,  and  also  to  answer  to  suche  accions  and  sutys  and 
byll  putt  into  the  Kynges  Chauncery,  wherupon  wryttes  of 
subpena  dyvers  and  many  tymes  made  upon  gret  peynys  were 
delyvered  to  the  seid  William  to  appere  in  the  Kynges 
Chauncery,  which  were  taken  be  gret  astates  and  be  suche 
myghty  persons  as  wold  have  recoveryd  the  lond  wrongfully, 
and  thus  trobelyd  the  seid  William  Paston,  be  cause  he  was 
a  fefFee,  and  taryd  hym  there  and  his  councell  to  his  gret 
inportunabill  charges.  Wherupon  we,  the  seid  William  Barker 
■  and  Margret  Wyssetyr  depose,  wytnesse,  and  be  this  present 
62 


EDWARD  IV 

sertyfye  for  trouthe  that  we  war  present  whan  the  seid  Sir 
Thomas  Howys  and  William  Wyssetyr,  in  parcell  of  recom-- 
pens  of  suche  forseid  lawbours  and  costes  as  the  seid  William 
Paston  had  had,  as  wele  in  the  lyfe  of  the  seid  Sir  John  as 
after  his  dyssese,  graunted  and  yaf  to  the  seid  William  Paston 
a  peyer  of  basons  coveryd  of  sylver  of  Parysh  towche  and  over 
gylt,  powncyd  and  imbossyd  with  rooses,  and  with  grete  large 
amellys  \_ertame/s^  in  the  botome  of  bothe  basons,  with  serteyn 
bestys  inbossyd  stondyng  with  inn  an  hegge  of  sylver  and  gylt 
upon  the  seid  amellys,  which  bothe  basons  ded  way  of  Troy 
weyt  ix''"'-  unces,  and  also  a  gredeyren  of  sylver  of  Parysse 

towche,  not  gylt,  weying  of  Troy  weyth ^  unces,  and  also 

a  gret  chargeour  of  sylver  of  Parysse  towche,  not  gylt,  weying 

of  Troy  weyth ^  unces,  to  have  and  to  hold  to  the  seid 

William,  his  eyres,  excecutores,  and  assignes,  as  his  own 
godes  for  ever.  And  also  we  wytnesse  that  we  ware  also 
present  whan,  for  a  serteyn  som  of  mony  to  be  payd  be  the 
seid  William  Paston,  whereof  a  parte  be  comenawnt  was  payd 
be  the  seid  William  Paston  to  the  seid  Sir  Thomas  Howys, 
and  a  parte  to  on  Edmond  Holkham,  and  the  remenaunt  was 
payd  to  one  Margret  Holkham,  syster  to  the  seid  Edmond  ; 
and  so  the  seid  William  Paston  had  clerly  payed  all  the  seid 
mony.  The  seid  Thomas  Howse  and  William  Wyssetyr 
bargayned,  sold,  and  graunted  to  the  seid  William  Paston,  his 
eyres,  exsecutores,  and  assignes,  in  fee  sympille  for  ever,  a 
tenement  called  Mcthis,  otherwyse  called  Holkham,  with  alle 
the  londes  and  tenementes,  rentes  and  servyces,  free  or  bond, 
and  with  all  the  apportenaunces  ther  to  belongyng,  in  the  town 
of  Cayster  ond  oder  townnys  adjoynyng  with  inne  the  seid 
cownte  of  NorfFolk,  and  delyvered  to  the  seid  [William]  Paston 
and  to  his  assignes  a  state  of  all  the  seid  tenementes,  londes, 
rentes,  and  servyces,  with  all  the  seid  aportenaunces  . 
.  .  .  .  sold  and  bargayned  to  the  seid  William  Paston 
alle  suche  londes,  rente,  and  servyces  as  the  seid  Sir  John 

Fastolf or    be    the    ryght   of    ony 

manere  that  he  or  ony  man  to  his  use  had  in  possession,  or 
that  the  seid  Thoma[s] ony  other  be 

^  Blank  in  original. 

63 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

the  reson  that  they  were  fefFes  of  trust  of  the  seid  John  Fastolf 

had  or  claymed  to  have or  claymed  to 

have  to  be  yssant  or  chargeabill  oute  or  upon  the  seid  tenement 

called  Methe[s] londes,  tene- 

mentes,  rentes,  servyces  at  ony  tyme  afore  or  than  longyng  to 

the   seid   tenement   or    owt a   manere 

called  Hornynghall,  with  the  apportenaunces,  late  Clerys,  in 
the  seid  town  of  Castyr,  to  have  [and  to  hold  to  the  said 
William]  Paston,  his  eyres  and  assygnes,  the  seid  lend,  rent, 
and  servyce  for  ever  mor.     And  utterly  be  ther  dede  and 

and   dyscharged   the 

seid  William  Paston,  his  eyres  and  his  assygnes  for  yeldyng  of 

payment  of  ony servyce ;  and 

also  dyscharged  all  the  seid  tenement  and  the  seid  manere,  and 
alle  oder  the  premysses,  with  alle  the 

.  as  now  have  or  shalle  here  aftir  be  possessoneres  of  the 
seid  tenement  or  manere  with  the  aportenaunces     .... 

more.      Alle  whiche  mater  afore  rehersid, 

and   every  parte   therof,    we,   the   seid  William   Barker   and 

Margre[t   Wyssetyr ]   trew,    and   we, 

and  iche  one  of  us,  will  at  alle  tyme  be  redy  to  wytnesse  and 

depose    the   same    be   ony    suche 

persones  outh  to  do  or  may  do  afore  ony  Juge  Spyrytualle  or 
Temperall  as  we  will  answer  a  fore  God  [at  the  dreadful]  day 
of  Dome.  In  wytnesse  wherof  we,  the  seid  William  Barker 
and  Margret  Wyssetyr,  to  this  present  have  sett  to  our 
[sealles]. 

Wretyn  the — ^  day  of  the ^  yer  of  the  reyn 

of  Kyng.^ 

(L.  S.)  (L.  S.) 

1  Blanks  in  MS.  i*  So  in  MS. 


64 


EDWARD  IV 


986 

ABSTRACT  ^ 

W.  Barker  to  [Margaret  Paston  ?] 

Begs  her  *  maystrasshipp '  to  inform  his  rightworshipful  master  of  the  con- 
duct of  Master  Keche  at  Wetyng,  who  on  Monday  means  to  be  there  with  a 
great  fellowship. 

[This  letter  is  unimportant,  but  as  being  written  by  William  Barker  it  may  con- 
veniently be  placed  after  the  last  No.,  although  probably  addressed  to  Marearet 
Paston,  and  if  so,  most  likely  during  the  life  of  her  husband.  It  appears  by  inquisition 
post-mortem^  i  Edw.  iv..  No.  46,  that  Elizabeth,  Countess  of  Oxford,  held  the  manor 
of  Weting  in  Feltwell  of  the  Duke  of  Norfolk.] 


987 

JOHN  PASTON'S  BOOKS' 

The  Inventory  off  Englysshe  Boks  off  John made 

the  V,  daye  of  Novembrey  anno  regni  Regis  E.  iiij 

1.  A  boke  had  off  myn  ostesse  at  the  George     .... 
off  the  Bethe  off  Arthr  begynyng  at  Cassab[elauny  Guy  Earl  of] 

fVarwyky  Kyng  Ri.  Cur  de  Lyon^  a  Cromc[_le'] 

to  Edwarde  the  iij.^  prec.     .     . 

2.  Item,  a  Boke  of  Troylus  whyche  William  Bra     . 

.     .     hath  hadde  neer  x.  yer,  and  lent  it  to  Dame     .... 
Wyngfelde,  and  ibi  ego  vidi ;  valet 

3.  Item,  a  blak  Boke  with  the  Legende  off  Lad[ieSy  la  Belle 
Dame']  saunce  Mercye^  the  Parlement  off  Byrd^es,  the  Temple  of] 

^  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.] 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  300.]  This  is  a  catalogue  of  the  books  either  of  John  Paston 
the  younger  or  of  John  Paston,  Knight,  most  probably  the  former,  drawn  up  in  the 
reign  of  Edward  iv.,  but  owing  to  the  decay  of  the  original  MS.  we  cannot  tell  in  what 
year.  It  certainly  could  not  have  been  earlier  than  1475,  when  The  Game  and  Play  of 
the  Chess  was  first  printed  by  Caxton.  It  is  in  itself  a  remarkable  thing  that  the 
-expression  *  in  print '  should  have  got  into  use  even  during  the  reign  of  Edward  iv.  j 
but  one  may  suppose  that  such  an  expression  could  hardly  have  been  current  for  at 
least  a  year  or  two  after  the  first  printed  book  appeared.  We  therefore,  without 
deciding  the  year,  place  the  paper  at  the  end  of  King  Edward's  reign. 

VOL.  VI. E  6$ 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

Glasse,  Palatyse  and  Scitacus^  the  Me\ditanons  of    .     ,     ,     .     '\ 
the  Greene  Knyght ;  valet^ — 

4.  Item,  a  Boke  in  preente  off  the  Pleye  ofF  the  [Chess]. 

5 .  Item,  a  Boke  lent  Midelton,  and  therin  is  Bele  Da\_me  sans] 

Mercy  the  Parlement  of  Byrds,  Balade off 

Guy   and    Colbronde,    off  the    Goos   th ^    the 

Dysputson  bytwyen  Hope  and  Dyspeyr^ Mare- 
haunts,  the  Lyffe  of  Seynt  Crylstofer], 

6.  A  reede  Boke  that  Percy  vail  Robsart  gafF  m[e]     .     . 

off  the  medis  off  the  Masse,  the  Lamentacion 

off    Chylde    Tpotis,    a    Preyer   to    the 

Vemyclr callyd   the   Abbeye    off  the 

Holy  Goosty 

7.  Item,  in  quayers  : — TuUy  de  Senectute  in 

wheroiF  ther  is  no  mor  cleer  wretyn     .     .     . 

•     •     •     • 

8.  Item,  in  quayers: — TuUy,  or   Cypio,^   de  Ami[citiaY 
-leiFte  with  William  Worcester  ;  valet 

9.  Item,  in  qwayers,  a  Boke  of  the  Polecye  of  In     .     . 


10.  Item,  in  qwayers,  a  Boke  de  Sapiencia 

wherin  the  ij.  parson  is  liknyd  to  Sapi[ence] 

1 1 .  Item,  a  Boke  de  Othea,^  text  and  glose,  valet     .     .     . 
.     in  quayers. 

Memorandum,*  myn  olde  Boke  off  Blasonyngs  off  a[rms]. 
Item,  the  nywe  Boke  portrayed  and  blasoned. 
Item,  a  copy  off  Blasonyngs  off  armys  and  th     .     .     . 
names  to  be  fownde  by  letter. 

Item,  a  Boke  with  armys  portrayed  in  paper    .     .     .     .     . 
Memorandum,  my  Boke  of  Knyghthod  and  the  man[er] 

1  square.  If  Cypio  is  not  a  mistake  from  *  Somnlum  Sciplonis,"'  a  piece  which  is 
usually  printed  with  the  *  de  Amicitia,'  and  probably  accompanied  it  in  this  manuscript. 
— F. 

2  It  is  a  curious  circumstance  that  this  book  should  be  here  mentioned  as  left  with 
William  Worcester,  who  with  the  assistance  of  John  Tiptoft,  Earl  of  Worcester,  and 
John  Phrea  or  Free,  a  monk  of  Bristol,  translated  it. — F. 

3  See  vol.  V.  p.  3,  Note  i. 

*  These  further  memoranda  seem  to  have  been  added  at  a  later  period,  probably 
in  the  reign  of  Henry  vii.,  as  the  last  entry  is  of  *a  book  of  new  statutes  from 
Edward  iv.' 

66 


EDWARD  IV 

off  makyng  off  Knyghts,  off  Justs,  off  Tor[neaments]  fFyghtyng 

in    lystys,    paces    holden    by   so[ldiers] and 

chalenges,  statuts  ofFweer,  and  cie  Regim[ine  Principum],  valet 


-      Item,  a  Boke  off  nyw  Statuts  fFrom  Edward  the  iiij. 

988 
VERSES  BY  A  LADY^ 

Ferses  written  by  a  Lady  in  the  reign  of  Henry  VI.  or  Edward  IV, 
to  an  absent  Lord  with  whom  she  was  in  love, 

MY  ryght  good  lord,  most  knyghtly  gentyll  knyght. 
On  to  your  grace  in  my  most  humbyll  wyse, 
I  me  comand,  as  it  is  dew  and  ryght, 
Besechyng  yow  at  leyser  to  advise 
Upon  thys  byll,  and  pardon  myn  empryse, 
Growndyd  on  foly,  for  lak  of  provydence, 
On  to  your  lordshep  to  wryght  with  owght  lycence. 

But  wher  a  man  is  with  a  fevyr  shake. 
Now  hot,  now  cold,  as  fallyth  by  aventure, 
He  in  hys  mynd  conjecte  wyll,  and  take 
The  nyghest  meane  to  worche  hys  cuyre. 
More  pacyently  hys  peynys  to  endure  ; 
And  ryght  so  I,  so  it  yow  not  dysplease, 
Wryght  in  thys  wyse  my  peynys  to  apease. 

For  when  I  cownt  and  mak  a  reknyng 
Betwyx  my  lyfe,  my  dethe,  and  my  desyer. 
My  lyfe,  alas  !  it  servyth  of  no  thyng 
Sythe  with  your  partyng,  depertyd  my  plesyer. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  304.]  It  is  not  apparent  by  whom  these  verses  were  written, 
or  to  what  lord  they  were  addressed.  They  may  have  been  from  the  Countess  of 
Oxford  to  her  husband  after  he  escaped  abroad  in  147 1  {see  vol.  v.,  No.  775).  Or 
they  may  have  been  the  production  of  Lydgate  writing  in  the  name  of  a  lady  parted 
from  her  lord.  We  place  them,  as  Fenn  did,  for  convenience,  at  the  end  of  the 
letters  of  Edward's  time. 

67 


2 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Wyshyng  your  presence  setyth  me  on  fyer  ; 
But  then  your  absence  dothe  my  hert  so  cold. 
That  for  the  peyne  I  not  ^  me  wher  to  hold. 

0  owght  on  absence,  ther  foolys  have  no  grace, 

1  mene  mysylf,  nor  yet  no  wytt  to  gwye 
Theym  owt  of  peyne  to  com  on  to  that  place, 
Wher  as  presence  may  shape  a  remedye ; 
For  al  dysease,  now  fyc  on  my  folye. 
For  I  dyspeyryd  am  of  your  soone  metyng. 
That  God  I  prey  me  to  your  presence  bryng. 

Farwell,  my  lord,  for  I  may  wryght  no  more. 
So  trowblyd  is  my  hert  with  hevynesse  ; 
Envye  also,  it  grewyth  me  most  sore. 
That  thys  rude  byll  shall  put  hym  sylf  in  presse 
To  se  your  lordshepe  of  hys  presumptuousnesse 
Er  I  my  sylf ;  but  yett  ye  shall  not  mysse 
To  have  my  hert  to  for  my  byll,  I  wys. 

Whyche  I  comytt  and  all  my  hole  servyse 
Into  your  hands,  demeane  it  as  you  lyst ; 
Of  it  I  kepe  ^  to  have  no  more  franchyse 
Then  I  hertlesse  swyrly  me  wyst, 
Savyng  only  that  it  be  as  tryst,* 

•  And  to  yow  trew  as  evyr  was  hert,  and  pleyn 
Tyll  cruell  dethe  depart  yt  up  on  tweyn. 

Adew  dysport,  farwell  good  companye. 

In  all  thys  world  ther  is  no  joye  I  weene ; 

For  ther  as  whyleom  I  sye  with  myn  iee, 

A  lusty  lord  leepyng  upon  a  grene. 

The  soyle  is  soole,  no  knyghts  ther  be  seen. 

No  ladyse  walk  ther  they  wer  wont  to  doone  ; 

Alas,  some  folk  depertyd  hense  to  soone. 

1  *  I  not '  stands  for  <  I  ne  wot,'  or  *  I  wot  not,'  that  is,  /  know  not. 

2  Readiness. — F.  »  I  care. ^F. 

*  ^^ersy  whether  this  means  sorronvful  or  trusty. — F. 

68 


EDWARD  IV 

Some  tyme  also  men  myght  a  wageor  make, 
And  with  ther  bowys  a  fFeld  have  it  tryed, 
Or  at  the  Paame  ther,  ther  plesure  for  to  take. 
Then  wer  they  loose,  that  now  stand  as  tyed, 
I  not  ^  wher  to  thys  world  may  be  aplyed  ; 
For  all  good  cher  on  evyn  and  on  morow, 
Whyche  then  was  made,  now  tornyth  me  to  sorow. 


989-991 
ABSTRACTS « 

The   letters   following  are  all   probably   of  the  reign  of 
Edward  iv.,  but  their  dates  are  quite  uncertain. 

989. 
J.  Paston   [of  Gelston]  to  Richard  Croft 

Will  not  venture  to  ride  in  this  weather,  not  being  well  at  ease.  Sends 
three  bills  of  John  Calle  and  Robert  Salle's  receipts  and  payments  brought  by 
the  former.  Cannot  find  the  new  fermall  of  Caster  here,  so  he  has  given  the 
bearer  the  key  of  his  coffer  at  Yarmouth.  If  you  would  ride  with  him,  I  think 
you  will  find  it  there.  Agrees  to  John  Wynne's  bills,  desiring  to  be  allowed 
j^5  for  Byshoppis  of  Yarmouth,  and  for  herring  delivered  to  my  cousin  Love- 
day  ;  but  John  Wynne  must  not  sell  my  farm  barley  to  pay  them,  as  I  wish  all 
the  barley  in  his  charge  malted  for  my  Lord  Mountjoy.  I  send  a  warrant  for 
the  sheriff  to  warn  the  persons  in  Flegge  and  Yarmouth  impanelled  between  the 
King  and  me  to  be  at  Thetford  assizes  on  Wednesday  next.  Give  it  to  Simon 
Garrard. 

Norwich,  Wednesday. 

990. 

Sir  Thomas  Hert  to  his  worshipful  Mistress,   [[Margaret  Paston  ?] 

Giving  her  an  account  of  the  numbers  of  her  sheep  and  lambs  at  Sparham 
from  Drayton  and  Taverham,  and  those  with  the  shepherd  at  Heylesdon. 
Heylisdon,  Thursday  before  Lady  Day  the  Nativity.^ 

[Under  this  letter  is  written  in  a  modern  hand — ^37  Hen.  6/but  this  date  is  certainly 
too  early.     Thomas  Hert  was  Vicar  of  Stalham  in  1482.] 


^  See  Note  1  on  last  page.  2  [From  Paston  MSS.,  B.M.] 

8  The  Nativity  of  St.  Mary  the  Virgin,  8th  September. 

69 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

991. 

John  Downyng  to  Edmund  Paston 

Is  a  simple  servant  of  his  mother  and  miller  of  Wood  Mill.  Complains  of 
Will.  Sybbeson,  whom  Edmund  Paston  well  knows  to  have  been  *  defawtyf  in 
many  other  thyngs,'  and  who  embezzles  wheat  and  rye,  and  prevents  him  getting 
any  good  of  a  close  he  holds  of  Paston's  mother. 

North  Walsham,  Thursday  before  St.  Brice.^ 

[Some  memoranda  of  receipts  are  written  across  the  back.] 


^  St.  Brice's  Day  is  13  th  November. 


70 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Edward  V. 

992 

RICHARD,  DUKE  OF  GLOUCESTER,  TO 
LORD  NEVILLi 

To  my  horde  Nevylly  in  hast. 

MY  Lorde  Nevyll,  I  recommaunde  me  to  you  as  hartely     1483 
as  I  can ;  and  as  ever  ye  love  me,  and  your  awne  june  i  i 
weale  and  securty,  and  this  Realme,  that  ye  come  to 
me  with  that  ye  may  make,  defensably  arrayde,  in  all  the  hast 
that  ys  possyble,  and  that  ye  wyll  jq^  credence  to 

1  [From  Fenn,  v.  302.]  This  letter  was  not  a  part  of  the  Paston  correspondence, 
but  was  printed  by  Fenn  in  the  series  as  a  letter  of  much  historical  interest  from  a 
copy  given  him  by  the  Rev.  John  Brand,  secretary  to  the  Society  of  Antiquaries.  The 
following  memoranda  accompanied  the  copy : — 

*  Extract  from  an  ancient  ms.  of  pedigrees,  etc.,  in  quarto,  late  in  the  possession  of 
Sir  Walter  Blackett,  Bart.,  and  now  the  property  of  John  Erasmus  Blackett,  Esq., 
Alderman  of  Newcastle-upon-Tyne ;  p.  333,  under  title  of  "  A  Coppie  of  some  Letters 
ivhich  luere  found  in  Rabie  Castle  after  the  Rebelliony  to  shenu  the  fashion  .... 
of  those  times.''''  The  above  ms.  is  of  the  date  of  James  i.,  though  there  are  several 
continuations  in  a  more  modem  hand. 

*This  copy  has  doubtless  been  a  transcript  of  an  original  letter  of  the  Duke  of 
Gloucester,  afterwards  King  Richard  iii.,  and  written  just  before  his  seizure  of  the 
crown. 

*■  Raby  Castle  is  in  the  county  of  Durham.' 

Fenn  adds  that  it  does  not  appear  clearly  who  this  Lord  Nevill  was.  But  as  the 
letter  was  found  in  Raby  Castle  after  the  great  rebellion  of  the  Earls  of  Northumber- 
land and  Westmoreland,  in  X569,  it  was  evidently  addressed  to  one  of  that  family 
of  Nevills,  the  heads  of  which  were  Earls  of  Westmoreland.  In  1483  the  Earl  of 
Westmoreland's  name  was  Ralph  Nevill,  but  he  died  in  the  year  following,  and  was 
succeeded  in  the  title  by  Ralph,  son  and  heir  of  his  brother,  John,  Lord  Nevill,  who 
was  slain  at  Towton.  It  was  this  Ralph,  then  heir-presumptive  to  the  earldom,  who 
is  here  called  Lord  Nevill.  He  had  got  his  father's  attainder  reversed  in  1472,  and 
his  title  of  Lord  Nevill  was  recognised.     See  G.  Ele's  Peerage^  viii.  112. 

71 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

14^3    Richarde  RatclyfF,  thys  beerrer,  whom  I  no  we  do  sende  to 
JUNE  II  y-Q^^  enstructed  with  all  my  mynde  and  entent. 

And,  my  lord,  do  me  nowe  gode  servyce,  as  ye  have 
always  befor  don,  and  I  trust  nowe  so  to  remember  you  as 
shalbe  the  makyng  of  you  and  yours.  And  God  sende  you 
goqde  fortunes. 

Wrytten  att  London,  xj.  day  of  Jun,  with  the  hande  of 
your  hertely  lovyng  cousyn  and  master, 

R.  Gloucester. 


993 

ELIZABETH,  DUCHESS  OF  SUFFOLK,  TO 
JOHN  PASTON  1 

On  to  Jan  Paston^  in  haste. 

Not     "Ti  yT  ASTYR  PASTON,  I  pray  yow  that  it  may  plese  yow 

after      ^\\      ^^  ^^^^  yowr  logeyng  for  iij.  or  foro  days  tyl  I  may 

1483  be  porved  of  anodyr,  and  I  schal  do  as  musche  to 

yowr  plesyr.     For  Godys  sake,  say  me  not  nay  ;  and  I  pray 

yow  rekomaund  me  to  my  Lord  Chambyrleyn. 

Yowr  frend,  Elizabeth. 

1  [From  Fenn,  li.  292.]  This  is  a  holograph  letter  of  Elizabeth,  Duchess  of 
Suffolk,  the  sister  of  Edward  iv.  There  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  Lord  Chamber- 
lain referred  to  is  the  Lord  Hastings  who  has  been  very  frequently  mentioned  in  this 
correspondence}  and  if  so,  the  letter  cannot  be  later  than  1483,  as  he  was  beheaded 
in  that  year  on  the  1 3th  June,  by  order  of  the  Protector  Richard,  Duke  of  Gloucester. 
We  may  therefore  place  it  for  convenience  among  the  letters  of  Edward  v/s  time, 
though  undoubtedly  it  may  be  a  few  years  earlier.  Facsimiles  of  the  original,  both 
back  and  front,  are  given  by  Fenn.  It  is  endorsed  in  the  hand  of  John  Paston,  the 
younger  (certainly  not  in  that  of  his  brother  Sir  John,  as  Fenn  supposed) — '  Littra 
Ducisse  Suff.' 


72 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Richard  III, 
994 

JOHN,  DUKE  OF  NORFOLK,  TO  JOHN  PASTON  i 

T^o  my  right  welbeloved  frynde,  John  Paston, 
be  this  delivred  in  hast. 

RIGHT  welbeloved  frynde,  I  comaunde  me  to  you.     It     1483 
is  soo  that  the  Kentysshmen  be  up  in  the  weld,  and   oct.  10 
sey  that  they  wol  come  and  robbe  the  cite,  which  I 
shall  lett  yf  I  may. 

Therefore  I  pray  you  that  with  alle  diligence  ye  make  you 
redy  and  com  bidder,  and  bring  with  you  six  talle  felaws  in 
harnesse,  and  ye  shall  not  lyse  yowr  labour,  that  knoweth  God, 
Whoo  have  you  in  His  keping. 

Written  at  London,  the  x'^  day  of  October. 

Yowr  frend,  J.  Norffolk. 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  314.]  Sir  John  Howard  was  created  Duke  of  Norfolk  on  the 
28th  June  1483,  and  was  killed  in  the  battle  of  Bosworth  on  the  22nd  August  1485. 
This  letter  seems  to  have  been  written  in  October  1483,  when  it  first  became  known 
that  a  series  of  insurrections  were  about  to  take  place  in  different  counties,  of  which 
the  Duke  of  Buckingham  was  the  principal  leader.  It  was  on  the  12th  October,  just 
two  days  after  this  letter  was  written,  that  King  Richard  himself  at  Lincoln  heard  of  * 
Buckingham's  intended  treason. 


73 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

\ 

y 

995 

ABSTRACT  i 

1484  Proviso  to  be  inserted  in  an  Act  of  Parliament  in  favour  of  Margaret, 

widow  of  John  Paston,  touching  her  right  to  the  manor  of  Castre. 

Below  is  written — *  Guy  Fayrefax,  Knyght,  [^Ric.  Pygot,  one  of  the 
King's  Serjeants  of  the  Law,^  ^  and  Roger  Townesend,  [[another  of  ]]  ^  the 
King's  Serjeants  of  the  Law. 

[This  proviso  must  have  been  drawn  up  in  connection  with  some  measure  that 
was  to  have  come  before  the  Parliament  of  January  1484.  Earlier  it  cannot  be,  as 
Roger  Townesend  was  not  appointed  King's  Serjeant  till  June  1483;  and  as 
Margaret  Paston  died  in  November  1484,  it  could  not  possibly  be  later.] 

996 

ABSTRACTS 

FEB.  8  Release  by  John,  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  William,  Earl  of  Nottingham, 

kinsman  and  heir  of  John,  late  Duke  of  Norfolk,  to  John  Paston,  Esq., 
brother  and  heir  of  Sir  John  Paston,  Knight,  of  all  right  and  title  in  the 
manor  of  Caister  called  Redehams,  Vawx,  and  Bosouns  by  Great  Yarmouth, 
of  which  Sir  John  Paston  was  disseised  unjustly  by  the  said  late  Duke. 


997 

THE  DUKE  OF  SUFFOLK  TO  THOMAS  JEFFREYS* 

The  Due  of  Suffolk. 
To  Thomas  Jeffreys  our  ffermour  of  Maundevills^  greting, 

vitci  I     "\"  TC  TE  wole  and  streitly  charge  you  that  ye  content  and 

WW         P^^^  unto  the  bringer  herof  for  money  imployed  in 

^    "         our  houshold  thre  pound  threttenne  shillings  and 

foure  pens  for  such  stuff  as  we  our  owne  person  have  promysed, 

1  [From  a  MS.  in  the  Bodleian  Library.]  2  Scored  out. 

3  From  a  Document   transcribed  by  Sandford  in  his  Genealogy  of  the  Paston 
Family,  and  printed  by  Mr.  Worship  in  the  Norfolk  Archaology. 
,*  [From  Fenn,  ii.  316.] 

74 


RICHARD   III 

and  not  to  be  failed  upon  our  worship.     Of  the  which  some     1484 
of  Ixxiijj.  iiij^.  so  by  you  contented  and  paied,  we  wole  and     may  i 
also  stretly  charge  our  auditors  for  the  tyme  being,  by  virtu 
of  this  our  writing,  signed  with  our  hand,  to  make  you  dew 
and  pleyn  allowaunce  at  your  next  accompt. 

At  Wingfeld,  the  first  day  of  May  in  the  first  yer  of  Kyng 
Richard  the  III'^^ 

Suffolk. 

And  fFayle  not  on  peyn  [of]  losyng  off  yor  fFerme. 


998 

COMPLAINTS  OF  JOHN  PASTON  AGAINST  HIS 
UNCLE  WILLIAM  1 

All  so  the  seyde  John  Paston,  now  compleynaunt,  seyth  that  John  Paston,  1 484 
fadyr  off  the  same  John,  was  seased  off  the  maner  callyd  Hollwellhawe,  wyth 
th'appurtenaunces  in  Estodenham,  joyntly  wyth  all  the  londis,  tenementes, 
rentes,  and  services,  whyche  sume  tyme  were  John  Jerham,  Ewstase  Rows, 
John  Davy ,2  vikere  off  the  chyrche  off  Estodenham,  ande  Water  Danyell,  or 
any  off  thers,  lyeng  in  the  townys  off  Estodenham,  Mateshalle,  Mateshalebergh, 
and  othir  townys  adjoynyng,  ande  off  all  the  londis  and  tenementes,  rentes, 
services,  and  lybertes  wyth  ther  appurtenaunces  callyd  Toleys,  lyeng  in  the 
townys  off  Wymondham  and  Carleton  and  othir  townys  adyoynyng,  whyche 
sume  tyme  were  William  Thuxston  ;  and  off  the  scite  off  on  mese  [messuage] 
wyth  a  pece  londe  lyenge  in  a  croffte  to  the  same  mese  adyoynyng,  wyche  is 
accomptyde  xiiij.  acres  off  londe  wyth  th'appurtenaunces,  callyd  Colneys,  othyr 

wys  callyd  Whynnes  in  Carleton  ^  i^  jjyg  demeane  as  off  fFee ;   ande  so 

beyng  seased  ther  off,  up  on  trust  enfFefFede  William  Yelverton,  Justys,  John 
FastolfF,  Knyght,  Myles  Stapelton,  Knyght,  and  othir,  to  be  hadde  to  them 
and  theyr  heyrs  for  ever,  be  the  fores  wher  off  they  were  ther  off  seased  in 
theyr  demeane  as  off  ffee,  ande  afftyr  the  seyd  fFeffment  in  forme  afForseyd  mad, 
the  seyd  John  Paston  the  fadyr  disseassed.  The  ryght  off  the  whyche  maner, 
londis,  tenementes,  and  othir  the  premysses,  afftyr  the  desses  of  the  seyd  John 


1  [From  Add.  Charter  17,257,  B.M,]  It  appears  from  the  contents  that  this 
paper  must  have  been  drawn  up  nearly  five  years  after  Sir  John  Paston's  death.  It  is 
a  corrected  draft,  apparently  of  a  Bill  in  Chancery,  and  some  of  the  corrections  are  in 
Sir  John  Paston's  hand. 

2  He  was  vicar  of  East  Tuddenham  from  1398  to  1434. 
*  Blank  in  MS. 

75 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 48  4  the  fadyr,  owith  to  come  to  the  seyd  John,  now  compleynaunt,  as  sone  and  heyr 
off  the  seyd  John  Paston,  fFor  as  myche  as  the  seyd  John  the  fadyr  made  no 
wylle  nor  mencyon  of  the  aforseyd  maner,  londis,  tenementes,  nor  off  othir  the 
premysses,  whyche  maner,  londis,  and  tenementes,  and  othir  the  premysses  the 
seyd  William  Paston  hath,  and  agenst  the  cours  of  the  lawe  ocupyeth. 

Item,  the  seid  John  requerith  an  astate  to  be  takyn  in  those  londys  lymyted 
to  William  the  sone  for  deffaut  off  issu  off  Clement  Paston  by  the  will  of  there 
fadir  accordyng  to  the  seid  will,  as  well  as  in  those  londis  that  ar  or  shuld  be 
purchased  with  the  m''  [1000]  mark  accordyng  to  th'endentur  mad  by  twyn 
th'executors  of  William  Paston,  Justice,  that  is  to  sey,  to  the  seid  William  the 
son,  and  to  the  eyres  of  his  body,  and  for  defaute  of  yssue  of  his  bodye,  to 
remayn  to  th'eyers  of  William  Paston,  Justice,  which  the  seid  John  is. 

All  so  the  seyd  John  Paston,  now  compleynaunt,  seyth  that  ther  be  decayed 
at  Marlyngfford  and  Oxenhed  be  meane  off  th'enterupsion  off  the  seyd  William 
tweyn  water  melles,  wher  off  iche  was  letyn  ffor  x.  marke  be  yer.  And 
all  so  othir  howsyng  be  the  same  ockasion  at  Oxenhed,  Marlyngfford,  Stansted, 
and  Orwelbury  decayed  to  the  hurt  off  the  seyd  John  Paston  off  v.  C.  [500] 
mark  whech  the  seyd  John  Paston  desyreth  to  be  recompensede. 

Item,  the  seid  John  axith  of  the  seid  William  for  wast  don  in  the  maner  of 
Paston  for  lak  of  reparacion,  xl//. 

Item,  the  seid  William  hath  takyn  awey  owth  of  the  maners  of  John  Paston, 
that  is  to  sey,  of  hes  maners  of  Paston,  Oxened,  Marlyngford,  Stansted,  and 
Horwelburye,  siche  stoff  and  greynys,  catell  and  hotilementis  of  the  seid  maners 
as  were  agreyd  be  the  executors  of  the  seyd  William  Paston,  Justyse,  to  be  left 
and  latyn  with  the  seid  maners  to  the  value  of  xl//. 

Item,  the  seid  John  axith  to  be  restored  to  all  the  evydence  longyng  to  the 
maners  aforesaid  and  other  the  premysses  which  the  seid  William  wrongfully 
witholdith. 

Item,  the  seid  John  axith  to  hys  possession  which  he  hath  of  [[andj  in  the 
maner  of  Caster  and  other  maners  adyongnyng,  the  relesse  of  all  such  title  and 
interest  as  the  seid  William  hath  be  wey  of  feffement  in  the  foresaid  maner  and 
maners,  in  like  forme  as  other  his  cofeffes  have  in  tyme  past  relassed  to  Sir  John 
Paston,  whoos  eyre  the  seid  John  is. 

Also,  the  seid  John  Paston  desireth  the  performance  of  diverse  comenauntis 
and  articles  conteyned  in  diverse  indentures  and  writynges  mad  be  the  avise  of 
the  reverend  fadir  in  God,  William,  Bisschpppe  of  Lyncolne,^  supervisour  of 
the  testement  of  the  seid  William  Paston,  Justice,  bytwix  th'executors  of  the 
same  William  Paston  for  kepyng  of  the  trewe  intent  and  will  of  the  seid 
William  Paston,  Justice,  as  by  the  same  indentures  and  writynges  redye  to 
be  schewed  more  pleynlye  shall  appere,  the  entent  and  performance  of  which 
writyng  is  interupted  and  brokyn  by  the  seid  William  Paston  and  his  meanys  to 
the  hurt  and  damage  off  the  seyd  John  Paston,  now  compleynaunt  off  .^ 

Item,  the  seid  William  hath,  contray  to  trouuth  and  conscience,  vexed  and 
trouubled  and  put  to  cost  and  charge  the  seid  John  nowe  be  the  space  of  v.  yer 
saffe  a  quarter,^  and  hath  distorbede  the  same  John  to  take  and  perceyve  th'issus 

1  William  Alnwick,  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  who  died  in  1449.  ^  Blank  in  MS. 

3  Originally  written  '  a  yere  and  more,'  and  corrected. 

76 


RICHARD  III 

and  profetes  off  the  same  maners,  to  the  hurt  and  damage  off  the  seyd  John  in     1 484 
defendyng  of  his  right  off  and  in  the  maners  afForeseyd  of  ij.  m'*  mark,  besyde 
greffe,  gret  labour  and  disseace  that  the  seid  John  hath  dayly  be  putt  onto  by 
th'okcasion  afForseyd.^ 

Item,  accordyng  to  the  will  of  William  Paston,  Justice,  the  seid  John  axith 
to  be  restored  to  parth  of  such  goodis  as  hath  ben  dispendid  by  John  Paston  the 
fader,  Sir  John  Paston,  and  the  seid  John  nowe  compleynaunt,  in  defence, 
kepyng,  and  recoveryng  of  such  londis  as  were  William  Paston,  Justice,  which 
draweth  above  the  summa  of  m'//. 

Item,  where  on  ^  Lomnor  had  a  cofur  in  kepyng  and  and  D.m'* 

mark  in  the  same  be  extymasion  to  the  use  of  John  Paston,  fadir  of  the  forsayed 
Sir  John  and  John,  the  seid  William  Paston  fraudelently  atteyned  the  seid 
cofur  wyth  the  seyd  sume  of  money  after  the  dissece  of  the  seid  John  the  fadir, 
and  had  it  in  his  kepyng  serteyn  dayes,  and  did  with  it  his  pleasur  unknowyn 
to  the  seid  Sir  John  Paston  and  John  Paston,  his  brother ;  and  after  at  Herry 
Colettes^  house  the  seid  William  brought  the  seid  cofur  to  the  seid  John 
Paston,  Knyght,  and  there  openyd  the  seid  cofur,  where  was  then  lefte  but  CC. 
old  noblis  which  wer  by  extymacion  in  value  C/i.  And  the  seid  William 
toke  ther  the  seid  gold  awey  with  hym,  ageyn  the  will  of  seid  Sir  John,  and 
witholdith  the  same,  whereof  the  seyd  John  preyeth  to  be  restored. 

Item,  the  seid  William  atteynyd  and  gate  a  payer  of  basons  of  silver  and 
parte  or  all  gilt  from  the  seid  Sir  John  Paston  and  John  Paston,  now  com- 
pleynaunt, abouuth  such  season  as  he  toke  the  cofur  and  coyne  aforerehersed, 
which  basons  were  in  value  C.  mark  ;  and  the  seid  William  yet  witholdith  the 
seid  basons,  to  the  whyche  the  seyd  John  preyeth  also  to  be  restored. 

Item,  the  seid  William  gate  in  to  his  possession  a  charger  of  silver  in  value 
X.  marke,  and  iij.  bollys  of  silver  that  were  in  kepyng  of  Bacheler  Water,  a 
Frier  Carmelit  of  Norwich,  to  th'entent  that  a  certeyn  coost  shuld  have  ben 
doon  upon  the  liberarye  of  the  Friers  Carmelites  aforesaid  for  the  sowlis  of 
William  Paston,  Justice,  and  Augnes,  his  wifF;  which  charger  and  bollys  the 
seid  William  yet  withholdith  and  kepith  to  his  owne  use,  and  therfore  the  seid 
charges  ar  not  fulfylled. 

Item,  the  seid  John  axith  restitucion  of  suche  inportable  charges  as  the  seid 
William  hathe  put  the  forsaid  Sir  John  onto  by  the  space  of  many  yeres,  as  in 
plesures  doyng  and  rewardis,  which  apperith  by  writyng  of  the  hande  of  the 
seid  Sir  John  ;  which  pleasures  and  charges  the  seid  Sir  John  was  constreyned 
to  doo  in  defence  of  the  seid  William ;  wher  of  the  seid  John  axeth  to  have 
amendys  of  C'-  mark. 

Item,  by  the  occacion  and  meanys  of  the  seid  William,  the  seid  Sir  John 
was  constreyned  to  lende  onto  the  Reverende  Fadere  in  God,  George,  late 
Archebsschop  of  York  *  m'-  mark,  which  was  nat  payed  ageyn  by  the  summa  of 
C/f.     The  seid  John  axith  to  be  restorid  ther  of. 

Item,  the  seid  William  hath  fellyd  tymbre  and  wodys  in  the  maners  of  the 


1  This  paragraph  is  very  much  corrected.  2  Blank  in  MS. 

3  Father  of  the  celebrated  Dean  Colet. 

*  George  Ncvill,  Archbishop  of  York,  died  on  the  8th  June  1476. 

77 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1484     seid  John,  that  is  to  sey,  the  maners  of  Oxened  and  Marlyngford,  to  the  hurth 
of  the  seid  John  of  xx//. 

Item,  the  seyd  John  Paston,  compleynaunt,  axith  to  be  restoryd  to  alle 
syche  money  as  hathe  be  takyn  and  dyspendyd  by  alle  siche  persones  as  have 
ben  assigned  by  meanes  of  the  seyd  Wylliam  to  distorbe  and  interupt  the  seyd 
John,  compleynaunt,  of  hys  ryght,  tyghtyll,  possessyon,  entrest,  of  and  in  the 
maners,  londis,  and  tenementes,  and  other  the  premysses  dwryng  the  seyd  v. 
yer  saufF  a  quarter,  as  well  as  to  all  syche  money  as  hathe  ben  dyspendyd  dwryng 
the  seyd  v.  yer  saufF  a  quarter  by  the  servauntys  of  the  seyd  compleynaunt 
by  hym  assigned  to  tery  and  abyd  up  on  the  seyd  maners,  londes,  and  tene- 
mentes, and  other  the  premysses  ther,  to  kepe  the  possessyon  of  the  seyd 
compleynaunt,  whyche  extendith  to  the  some  of  xl//.  and  above. 

Item,  the  seyd  John,  compleynaunt,  axith  to  be  restoryd  to  all  syche  money 
as  hathe  bene  receyved  by  meanys  of  the  seyd  William,  dwryng  the  seyd  v.  yer 
saufF  a  quarter,  of  syche  as  ar  or  have  ben  fermors  or  tenauntes  of  the  maners, 
londis,  and  tenementis  aforseyd  duryng  the  seyd  season,  as  well  as  to  all  syche 
money  as  is  not  levyable  of  dyvers  of  the  seyd  fermors  and  tenauntes  fallyn  in 
poverte  sythe  the  trowblows  season  of  the  v.  yer  saufF  a  quarter  befor  rehersed, 
whyche  extendeth  to  the  some  of  CC//'.  or  above. 


999 

MARGERY  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  ryght  worschipful  husbond^  John  Paston. 

1484 (.f*)   I  '\  YGHT  worschipful  husbond,  I  recomaund  me  onto  you. 

DEC.  2^     r^      Plese  it  you  to  wete  that  I  sent  your  eldest  sunne  to 

my  Lady  Morlee^  to  have  knolage  wat  sports  wer 

husyd  in  her  hows   in   Kyrstemesse   next  folloyng  aftyr  the 

decysse  of  my  lord,  her  husbond  ;  and  sche  seyd  that  ther  wer 

non  dysgysyngs,  ner  harpyng,  ner  lutyng,  ner  syngyn,  ner  non 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  330.]  Fenn  supposes  with  great  probability  that  this  letter  was 
written  in  1484,  the  year  of  Margaret  Paston's  death.  No  earlier  date  is  possible, 
seeing  that  even  in  1484  John  Paston's  eldest  son  was  only  in  his  seventh  year,  and 
he  had  at  the  date  of  this  letter  two  sons  capable  of  being  sent  on  messages  j  so  that, 
if  anything,  we  should  be  inclined  to  put  it  later.  But  we  know  of  no  later  death  in 
the  family  that  could  have  occasioned  the  writing  of  such  a  letter,  and  the  time  of 
Margaret  Paston's  death  and  of  the  proving  of  her  will  agree  very  well  with  Fenn's 
hypothesis.  From  the  calendar  prefixed  to  an  old  ms.  missal  in  the  possession  of  the 
late  Mr.  C.  W.  Reynell,  I  found  that  she  died  on  the  4th  November  1484.  Her  will 
was  proved  at  Norwich  on  the  i8th  December  following. 

2  Widow  of  William  Lovel,  Lord  Morle^,  who  died  the  26th  of  July  1476. — F. 

78 


RICHARD   III 

lowde  dysports,  but  pleyng  at  the  tabyllys,  and  schesse,  and  i484(?) 
cards.     Sweche  dysports  sche  gave  her  folkys  leve  to  play  and   dec.  24 
non  odyr. 

Your  sunne  dede  hese  heyrne  [^errandl  ryght  wele  as  ye 
shal  her  aftyr  this.  I  sent  your  yonger  sunne  to  the  Lady 
Stabylton,^  and  sche  seyd  acordyng  to  my  Lady  Morlees 
seyng  in  that,  and  as  sche  hadde  seyn  husyd  in  places  of 
worschip  ^  ther  as  sche  hathe  beyn. 

I  pray  you  that  ye  woU  asur  to  your  some  man  at  Caster 
to  kepe  your  botry,  for  the  mane  that  ye  Icfte  with  me  woll 
not  take  upon  hym  to  breve  ^  dayly  as  ye  commandyt.  He 
seyth  he  hath  not  usyd  to  geve  a  rekenyng  nothyr  of  bred  nor 
alle  [«/(?]  tyll  at  the  wekys  end  ;  and  he  seyth  he  wot  well  that 
he  shuld  not  condenyth  {^give  satisfaction]  and  therfor  I  soposse 
he  shall  not  abyd,  and  I  trow  ye  shall  be  fayne  to  purveye 
another  man  for  Symond,  for  ye  har  never  the  nerer  a  wysse 
man  for  hym. 

I  ham  sory  that  ye  shall  not  [be]  at  hom  be  for  Crystemes. 
I  pray  you  that  ye  woll  come  as  sone  as  ye  may,  I  shall 
thynke  myself  halfe  a  wedow,  because  ye  shal  not  be  at  home, 
&c.     God  have  you  in  Hys  kepyng. 

Wretyn  on  Crestemes  Evyn.  By  yor,         M.  P. 


1000 

ABSTRACT* 

Stansted  and  Harwellbury 
The  manor  of  Stansted  is  in  the  county  of  Suffolk.     The  estate  of  this  I484(.'*) 


1  Sir  Miles  Stapleton  died  in  1466.  His  widow  Catherine  seems  to  have  married 
in  the  following  year  Sir  Richard  Harcourt  of  Ellenhale  (Blomefield,  ix.  321),  but, 
according  to  a  practice  not  imcommon  at  that  time,  she  may  have  retained  the  name 
of  Lady  Stapleton. 

2  *  Places  of  worship '  j  i.e.y  in  families  of  distinction. 

3  To  make  up  accounts. 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  is  a  paper  of  notes  relating  to  the  manors  of 
Stansted  in  Suffolk  and  Harwellbury  in  Herts,  addressed  to  a  lady  who  is  styled 
*  Madam'  and  'your  Grace,'  and  who,  though  not  named,  was  undoubtedly  the 

79 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I484(?)  manor  passed  not  by  the  deed  that  the  estate  was  taken  by  at  Huntingfeld,  in 
Norf.,^  but  T  claim  this  manor  by  my  mother's  gift.  *  This  manor  is  but  a 
mile  from  Clopton's  and  not  far  from  Smalbrigge,  where  your  Grace  is  now.* 
John  Barell  is  farmer  of  this  manor,  who,  when  I  came  to  your  Grace  just 
after  my  mother's  death,  confessed  before  your  servants,  Piers  Rumbold  and 
William  Smyth,  that  he  was  privy  of  mine  estate  in  my  mother's  days,  and  took 
the  farm  of  me  at  that  time.  *  Madam,  this  is  the  man  ye  sent  your  servant 
W.  Smyth  to,  for  to  keep  the  possession  there ;  and  after  he  had  tarried  there 
awhile  he  took  a  promise  of  the  farmer  that  he  should  pay  no  money  to  nobody 
without  commandment  from  your  Grace  ;  contrary  to  which  promise,  by  the 
favour  of  some  folks  that  your  Grace  can  deem,  he  hath  paid  my  nephew  a^io 
or  £10.^  I  think.  Madam,  you  need  send  no  man  to  keep  possession  there  ; 
but  your  Grace  might  send  a  servant  thither  to  show  the  tenants  your  dis- 
pleasure, inasmuch  as  he  hath  broken  his  promise  with  your  Grace,  and  threaten 
to  distrain. 

The  manor  of  Harwellbury.  is  in  Hertfordshire,  four  miles  from  your  manor 
of  Weston  Baldok^  and  two  from  Roiston.  This  manor  also  passed  not  by  the 
estate  taken  in  Norfolk,  not  being  in  the  same  shire.  Of  this  manor  *  he '  ^ 
received  no  money,  for  the  farmers  are  true  and  fear  not  his  threats.  The 
manor  is  worth  j^8. 


Duchess  of  Norfolk.  Compare  No.  962.  The  writer  is  perhaps  John  Paston  of 
Gelston;  in  which  case  the  date  must  be  after  1484.,  as  he  speaks  of  his  mother  as 
being  dead.  More  probably  it  was  his  uncle  William,  and  John  Paston  is  the  nephew 
referred  to  in  the  paper  itself.  But  even  in  that  case  the  document  cannot  be  five 
years  earlier,  as  Agnes  Paston  died  in  1479. 

1  Should  be  Suffolk. 

2  The  Dukes  of  Norfolk  of  the  family  of  Mowbray  owned  this  manor. 

3  The  writer's  nephew  ?  , 


80 


RICHARD   III 

lOOI 
PROCLAMATION  AGAINST  HENRY  TUDOR  ^ 

R.  R. 

Ricardus,  etc.  salutem.     Precipimus  tibi,  etc. 

FORASMOCHE  as  the  Kyng  our  sovereign  Lord  hath  1485 
certeyn  knowlege  that  Piers,  Bisshop  of  Exeter,^  Jasper  J"^^  23 
Tydder,®  son  of  Owen  Tydder,  callyng  hymself  Erie 
of  Pembroke,  John,  late  Erie  of  Oxon,*  and  Sir  Edward 
Wodevyle,^  with  other  dyvers  his  rebelles  and  traytours^  dis- 
abled and  atteynted  by  the  auctorite  of  the  High  Court  of 
Parlement,  of  whom  many  be  knowen  for  open  murdrers, 
advoutrers  \adulterers\  and  extorcioners,  contrary  to  the 
pleasure  of  God,  and  a  yenst  all  trouth,  honour,  and  nature, 
have  forsakyn  there  naturall  contrey,  takyng  them  first  to  be 
under  th'obeisaunce  of  the   Duke  of  Bretayn,®  and  to  hym 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  318.]  The  ms.,  as  Fenn  tells  us,  was  endorsed  in  an  ancient 
hand,  'Kent  Cherfys  [Sheriffs]. — Copia  litene  Regis  R.  iii.  persuadentis  subditos  suos 
ad  resistendum  Henr'  Tydder,  postea  Regem  Angliae  ac  declarantis  a  quo  idem 
Henricus  descendebat.'  Another  but  imperfect  copy  of  this  proclamation  will  be 
found  in  the  Harleian  MS.,  No.  433,  f.  220  b.  A  similar  proclamation  had  been 
issued  on  the  7th  December  1484,  of  which  a  copy  will  also  be  found  in  the  same 
Harleian  volume  at  folio  273  b.  Sir  Henry  Ellis  has  also  printed  in  his  Original 
Letters  (2  Ser.  i.  162)  a  copy  of  this  proclamation  as  set  forth  in  the  original  warrant 
for  issuing  it,  which  the  King  addressed  to  the  Bishop  of  Lincoln  as  Chancellor. 
The  MS.  followed  by  Ellis  was  a  transcript  from  one  of  the  records  formerly  in  the 
Tower.  I  have  compared  these  different  texts  throughout  with  that  printed  by 
Fenn,  and  noted  all  variations  that  are  of  any  consequence.  The  two  Harleian 
texts  I  have  called  A.  and  B.,  the  former  being  that  of  the  proclamation  issued  on  the 
7th  December  preceding.     The  text  printed  by  Ellis  I  have  called  E. 

2  Peter  Courtney,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  after  the  miscarriage  of  the  Duke  of  Bucking- 
ham's conspiracy,  fled  into  Bretagne  to  the  Earl  of  Richmond,  who,  after  he  became 
Henry  vii.,  promoted  this  Prelate  to  the  See  of  Winchester  in  i486,  in  which  he  died 
in  1492. — F. 

3  Jasper  Tudor  of  Hatfield,  half-brother  to  Henry  vi.  He  was  created  Duke  of 
Bedford  in  1485. 

*  John  de  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford,  who  had  escaped  from  the  Castle  of  Hammes. — F. 

5  Sir  Edward  Wodevile,  brother  to  the  Queen  of  Edward  iv. — F.  The  names 
given  in  text  A.  are  *  Piers,  Bisshop  of  Excestre,  Thomas  Grey,  late  Marques  Dorset, 
Jasper,  late  Erie  of  Pembroche,  John,  late  Erie  of  Oxenford,  and  Sir  Edward  Widevilc.* 

®  Francis  ii.,  the  last  Duke  of  Bretagne,  was  overthrown  by  Charles  viii..  King  of 
France,  and  died  in  1488. — F. 

VOL.  VI. F  81 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1485    promysed  certeyn  thyngs  whiche  by  him  and  his  counsell  were 
JUNE  23  thought  thynggs  to  gretly  unnaturall  and  abominable  for  them 
to  graunt,  observe,  kepe,  and  perfourme,  and  therfore  the 
same  utterly  refused. 

The  seid  tray  tours/  seyng  ^  the  seid  Duke  and  his  counsell 
wolde  not  aide  nor  socour  theym  ner  folowe  there  wayes, 
privily  departed  oute  of  his  contrey  in  to  Fraunce,  and  ^  there 
takyng  theym  to  be  under  the  obeisaunce  of  the  Kynggs 
auncient  enemy,  Charlys,*  callyng  hymself  Kyng  of  Fraunce, 
and  to  abuse  and  blynde  the  comons  of  this  seid  Realme,  the 
seid  rebelles  and  traitours  have  chosyn  to  be  there  capteyn  one 
Henry  Tydder,^  son  of  Edmond  Tydder,  son  of  Owen  Tydder,^ 
whiche  of  his  ambicioness  and  insociable^  covetise^  encrocheth^ 
and  usurpid  ^^  upon  hym  the  name  and  title  of  royall  astate  of 
this  Realme  of  Englond,  where  unto  he  hath  no  maner  interest, 
right,  title,  or  colour,  as  every  man  wele  knowyth  ;  ^^  for  he  is 
discended  of  bastard  blood  bothe  of  ffather  side  and  of  mother 
side,  for  the  seid  Owen  the  graunfader  was  bastard  borne,  and 
his  moder  was  doughter  unto  John,  Duke  of  Somerset,  son 
unto  John,  Erie  of  Somerset,  sone  unto  Dame  Kateryne  Swyn- 
ford,  and  of  ther  ^^  indouble  ^^  avoutry  [adultery]  gotyn,  wherby  it 
evidently  apperith  that  no  title  can  nor  may  [be]^*  in  hym, 
which  fully  entendeth  to  entre  this  Reame,  purposyng  a  con- 
quest.    And  if  he  shulde  atcheve  his  fals  entent  and  purpose, 

I  *  The  said  traytours.'     They.     A.  2  that.     A.  B.  E. 
*3  i  and '  omitted  in  A.  B.  and  E. 

*  Charles  viii.  ascended  the  throne  in  1483,  and  died  in  14.98. — F. 

®  Henry  Tudor,  Earl  of  Richmond,  who  in  1483  became  King  of  England,  by 
the  title  of  Henry  vii. — F. 

®  *  one  Herry  ....  Owen  Tydder '  oon  Herry  late  calling  himself  Erie  of 
Richemond.    A.  ^  *  ambicious  and  insaciable.'     A.  B.  E. 

8  '  stirred  and  excited  by  the  confederacie  of  the  Kinges  said  rebelles  and  traytours,' 
added  in  A.  ^  Here  text  B.  comes  to  an  end.  10  *  usurpeth.'     E. 

II  From  here  to  the  end  of  the  paragraph  is  omitted  in  A. 
12  <  ther '  her.     A. 

1^  This  either  means  double  adultery,  that  is  adultery  on  both  sides  j  or  indubitable, 
undoubted  adultery.— F.  I  suspect  the  true  reading  to  be  *and  of  her  in  double 
avowtry  gotyn.'  It  is  a  great  question  whether  John,  Earl  of  Somerset,  John  of 
Gaunt's  eldest  son  by  Catherine  Swynford,  was  not  bom  during  the  life  of  her  lawful 
husband  as  well  as  during  that  of  John  of  Gaunt's  lawful  wife. — See  Excerpta 
Historicay  155-6. 

1*  Supplied  from  E. 

82 


RICHARD   III 

every  man  is  lif,  livelod,  and  goddes  shulde  be  in  his  hands,     1485 
liberte,  and  disposicion,  wherby  sholde  ensue  the  disheretyng  June  23 
and  distruccion  of  all  the  noble  and  worshipfuU  blode  of  this 
Reame  for  ever,  and  to  the  resistence  and  withstondyng  wherof 
every  true  and  naturall  Englishman  born  must  ley  to  his  hands 
for  his  owen  suerte  and  wele. 

And  to  th'entent  that  the  seid  Henry  Tydder  myght  the 
rather  atcheve  his  fals  intent  and  purpose  by  the  aide,  supporte, 
and  assistence  of  the  Kynggs  seid  auncient  enemy  of  Fraunce,^ 
hath  covenaunted  and  bargayned  with  hym  and  all  the  counsell 
of  Fraunce  to  geve  up  and  relese  inperpetuite  all  the  right, 
title,  and  cleyme  that  the  Kyng[es]  of  Englond  have,  had,  and 
ought  to  have,  to  the  Crowne  and  Reame  of  Fraunce,  to  gether 
with  the  Duchies  of  Normandy,  Anjoy,  and  Maygne,  Gascoyn 
and  Guyne,  castell[es]  and  townys  of  Caleys,  Guysnes,  Hammes, 
with  the  marches  apperteynyng  to  the  same,^  and  discevir  and 
exclude  the  armes  of  Fraunce  oute  of  the  armes  of  Englond 
for  ever. 

And  in  more  prove  and  shewing  of  his  seid  purpose  of 
conquest,  the  seid  Henry  Tidder  hath  goven  as  well  to  dyvers 
of  the  seid  Kynggs  enemys  as  to  his  seid  rebelles  and  traitours, 
archebisshoprikes,  bisshoprikes,  and  other  dignitees  spirituels, 
and  also  the  ducheez,  erledomez,  baronyes,  and  other  posses- 
sions and  inheritaunces  of  knyghts,  squyres,  gentilmen,  and 
other  the  Kynggs  true  subjetts  withynne  the  Reame,  and 
entendith  also  to  chaunge  and  subverte  the  lawes  of  the  same, 
and  to  enduce  and  establisse  newe  lawes  and  ordenaunces 
amongez  the  Kynggs  seid  subjetts.^  And  over  this,  and  beside 
the  alienacions  of  all  the  premyssez  into  the  possession  of  the 
Kynggs  seid  auncient  enemys  to  the  grettest  anyntisshment,^ 
shame,  and  rebuke  that  ever  myght  falle  to  this  seid  land,  the 
seid  Henry  Tydder  and  others,  the  Kynggs  rebelles  and 
traitours  aforeseid,  have  extended  [intended^  at  there  comyng, 

1  The  beginning  of  this  sentence  in  A.  is  as  follows : — *  And  to  th'entent  to 
accheve  the  same  by  th'aide,  support,  and  assistence  of  the  Kinges  seid  auncyent 
ennemyes  and  of  this  his  royaume.' 

2  From  the  words  *  and  discevir '  to  the  sentence  beginning  *  And  over  this/  all  is 
omitted  in  A. 

3  Aneantisement — anientised  is  used  by  Chaucer  in  his  Tale  of  Melibeus,  for 
reducing  to  nothing. — F. 

83 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1485    if  they  may  be  of  power,^  to  do  the  most  cruell  murdrers, 
JUNE  23  slaughterys,  and  roberys,  and  disherisons  that  ever  were  seen 
in  tny  Cristen  reame. 

For  the  wich,  and  other  inestymable  daungers  to  be 
escheuved,  and  to  th'entent  that  the  Kynggs  seid  rebelles, 
traitours,  and  enemys^  may  be  utterly  put  from  there  seid 
malicious  and  fals  purpose^  and  sone  discomforted,*  if  they 
enforce  to  land,^  the  Kyng  our  soveraign  Lord^  willith, 
chargeth,  and  comaundith  all  and  everyche  of  the  naturall  and 
true  subgetts  of  this  his  Reame  to  call  the  premyssez  to  there 
mynds,  and  like  gode  and  true  Englishmen  to  endover  them- 
selfs  with  all  there  powers  for  the  defence  of  them,  there  wifs, 
chylderyn,  and  godes,  and  heriditaments  ayenst  the  seid 
malicious  purposes  and  conspiracions  which  the  seid  auncient 
enemes  '^  have  made  with  the  Kynggs  seid  rebelles  and  traitours^ 
for  the  fynall  distruccion  of  this  lande  as  is  aforesaid.  And 
our  said  soveraign  Lord,  as  a  wele  willed,  diligent,  and  corag- 
ious  Prynce,  wel  put  his  moost  roiall  persone  to  all  labour  and 
payne  necessary  in  this  behalve  for  the  resistence  and  subduyng 
of  his  seid  enemys,  rebells,  and  traitours  *  to  the  moost  com- 
forte,  wele,  and  suerte  of  all  ^°  his  true  and  feithfuU  liege  men 
and  subgetts. 

And  over  this,  our  seid  soveraign  Lord  willith  and 
comaundith  all  his  seid  subgetts  to  be  redy  in  there  most 
defensible  arraye  to  do  his  Highnes  servyce  of  werre,  when 
thy  be  opyn  proclamacion,  or  otherwise  shall  be  comaunded  so 
to  do,  for  the  resistence  of  the  Kynggs  seid  rebelles,  traitours, 
and  enemyes.  Et  hoc  sub  periculo,  &c. — T.  me  ipso  apud 
Westmonasterium,  xxiij.  die  Junij,  Anno  regni  nostri  secundo. 

1  *  if  they  may  be  of  power,'  omitted  in  A. 

2  rebelles  and  traytours.     A.  3  malicious  purposes.     A. 

*  discomfited.     A.  E. 

^  Or  rather,  made  good  their  landing  by  force. — F. 

*  desireth.     A.  E.  7  the  auncyentes  ennemyes  of  this  lande.     A. 
^  *  and  traitours,'  omitted  in  A. 

'  rebelles,  traitours,  and  enemyes.  A.  In  which  text  the  proclamation  ends 
with  these  words,  and  is  followed  by  the  usual  words  addressed  to  the  Chancellor  as 
his  authority  for  making  out  the  proclamation  :  *  And  thise  oure  lettres  shall  be  your 
sufficient  warrant  in  that  behalve.'  This  warrant  to  the  Chancellor  is  dated  *  at  oure 
Castell  of  Notyngham,  the  xxj.  day  of  Juyn,  the  secund  yere  of  our  reigne,'  two  days 
before  the  proclamation  was  issued.  10  and  singlier.     A. 

84 


RICHARD   III 

1 002 

THE  DUKE  OF  NORFOLK  TO  JOHN  PASTON 1 

^0  my  welbelovyd  frend^  John  Pastotiy  be  thy 5  by II 
delyveryd  in  hast, 

WELBELOVYD   frend,   I   cummaunde   me   to   yow,     1485 
letyng  yow  to  undyrstond  that  the  Kyngs  enmysse     aug. 
be  a  land,  and  that  the  Kyng  wold  hafe  set  forthe 
as  uppon  Monday  but  only  for  Howre  Lady  Day  ;  *  but  for 
serten  he  gothe  forward  as  uppon  Tewsday,  for  a  servant  of 
myne  browt  to  me  the  sertente. 

Wherfor,  I  pray  yow  that  ye  met  with  me  at  Bery,^  for,  be 
the  grace  of  God,  I  purposse  to  lye  at  Bery  as  uppon  Tewsday 
nyght,  and  that  ye  brynge  with  yow  seche  company  of  tall  men 
as  ye  may  goodly  make  at  my  cost  and  charge,  be  seyd  that  ye 
have  promysyd  the  Kyng  ;  and  I  pray  yow  ordeyne  them 
jakets  of  my  levery,  and  I  shall  contente  yow  at  your  metyng 
with  me. 

Yower  lover,  J.  Norffolk. 

^  [From  Fenn,  ii.  334.]  This  letter  must  have  been  written  in  August  1485, 
some  days  after  the  landing  of  the  Earl  of  Richmond,  afterwards  Heniy  vii.,  at 
Milford  Haven.  2  The  Assumption  of  Our  Lady,  15th  of  August. 

3  Bury  St.  Edmund^s  in  Suffolk. 


»5 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Henry   VII. 
1003 

DAME  ELIZABETH  BROWNE  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  ryght  worchepfull  and  hertly  beloved  nevew^ 
John  Paston^  Sqwyer. 

1485      I  ^  IGHT  worchepfull,  and  my  ryght  hertly  beloved  nevew, 

SEPT.  23     i-^      I  recomand  me  to  yow.     And  wher  as  ye  desier  me 

to  send  yow  woord  whether  my  brodyr  John  Paston, 

your  fadyr,  was  with  my  fadyr  and  hys,  whom  God  assoyle, 

duryng  hys  last  syknesse  and  at  the  tyme  of  hys  dissease  at 

Seynt  Brydis,  or  nowght. 

Nevew,  I  assarteyn  yow  upon  my  feythe  and  poore  honore 
that  I  was  xiiij.,  xv.  yer  or  xvj.  yer  old,  and^  at  Seynt  Brydis 
with  my  fadyr  and  my  modyr  when  my  fadyrs  last  syknesse  took 
hym,  and  tyll  he  was  disseassid  ;  and  I  dare  depose  befor  ony 
persone  honorable  that  when  my  fadyrs  last  siknesse  tooke 
hym,  my  brodyr  your  fadyr  was  in  NoriFolk,  and  he  came  not 
to  London  tyll  aftyr  that  my  fadyr  was  disseassid,  and  that  can 
Sir  William  Cootyng  ^  and  Jamys  Gressham  record,  for  they 

^  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  MS.  from  which  this  letter  is  printed  is  not  in 
the  handwriting  of  Dame  Eliz.  Browne.  It  is  a  corrected  draft  in  the  handwriting  of 
John  Paston,  with  the  address  at  the  head. 

2  The  words  '  xiiij. old,  and '  are  an  interlineation,  J.  P.  apparently  did  not 

know  his  sister's  exact  age  at  the  time  and  wished  her  to  supply  it. 

3  Rector  of  Swainsthorpe  from  1444  to  1450,  and  of  Titchwell  from  1450  to  1457. 
He  was  presented  to  the  former  living  by  Judge  Paston  and  John  Dam. 

86 


HENRY  VII 

bothe  were  my  fadyrs  clerkys  at  that  tyme.     And  I  remembre     1485 
and  wot  well  that  Jamys  Gressham  was  with  my  fadyr  at  Seynt  sept.  23 
Brydys  duryng  all  hys  siknesse  and  at  hys  disseasse,  and  thys 
wyll  I  wyttnesse  whyle  I  leve  for  a  trowthe,  as  knowith  God, 
Whom  I  beseche  to  preserve  you  and  yours. 

And,  nevew,  I  prey  yow  recomand  to  my  neese  your  wyfF, 
whom  I  wold  be  glad  to  se  onys  a  yen  in  London,  wher  thys 
bylle  was  wretyn,  signed  with  myn  hand,  and  sealed  with  my 
seale  [the  Thursday  next  befor  Whyghtsonday,  the  second  yer 
of  Kyng  Richard  the  Thred],^  the  xxiij.  daye  of  September  the 
first  yer  of  the  reyngne  of  Kyng  Herry  the  vij*^. 

Your  loveing  awnte,       El[iza]beth  Browne. 


1004 

ELIZABETH,  COUNTESS  OF  SURREY,  TO 
JOHN  PASTON2 

^0  myn  ryght  worshepfull  cosyn^  John  Past  on,  Esquyer, 

MYN  ryght  worshipful!  cosyn,  I  recomawnde  me  hertly    oct*  3 
to  you,  thankyng  you  of  your  greet  kyndnes  and 
lovyng  disposicion  towardys  myn  lord  and  me  at  all 
tymes,  which  I  pray  God  I  ma^  leve  to  see  the  acquytell  ther 
of  to  your  plesure,  prayeng  you  of  your  good  continuans. 

Cosyn,  I  shewyd  you  myn  mynde  that  I  wolde  have  myn 
shildern  to  Thorpe,^  wher  in,  God  yelde  you,  it  pleasyd  you  to 
sey  that  I  shulde  have  hors  of  you  to  help  to  conveye  them 
thyder  ;  but  now  I  undirstonde  myn  Lord  Fitz  Walter  *  hath 
dischargyd   myn    lordys    servauntes  thens,  affermyng   up  on 

1  This  date  is  scratched  through  with  the  pen. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]      This  letter  must  have  been  written  either  in  1485     . 
or  in  14.86.     Thomas  Howard,  Earl  of  Surrey,  was  taken  prisoner  at  the  battle  of 
Bosworth  on  the  22nd  August  1485,  and  was  not  released  from  confinement  till  1487, 

in  which  latter  year  also  John  Paston,  to  whom  this  letter  is  addressed,  was  knighted 
at  the  battle  of  Stoke  on  the  i6th  June.  Most  likely  the  letter  is  of  the  year  1485,  at 
the  beginning  of  the  Earl's  imprisonment,  and  when  Henry  vii.  had  been  just  six 
weeks  upon  the  throne.  3  j^  Norfolk. — F. 

*  John  RatclifF,  Lord  Fitzwalter,  who  was  summoned  to  Parliament  in  September 
1485. 

87 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1485  them  that  they  shulde  have  had  unfittyng  langage  of  the 
OCT.  3  Kynges  Grace.  Cosyn,  1  trust  that  ye  and  all  the  jentilmen  of 
the  shire,  which  have  had  knowleche  of  myn  lordes  servauntes, 
kan  sey  that  her  to  for  they  have  not  ben  of  that  disposicion 
to  be  lavas  of  theyr  tungys,  whan  they  had  moore  cause  of 
booldnes  than  they  have  nowe.  I  wolde  not  have  thowght 
myn  Lord  Fitzwaltcr  wolde  have  takyn  so  ferforth  displeasure 
for  the  keepyng  of  x.  or  xij.  men  at  Thorpe  ;  I  woot  weell  ther 
exceded  not  iij.  mees  ^  meet,  good  and  bad.  I  truste,  all  thow 
I  weer  a  soel  woman,  to  mayntene  so  many  at  the  leeste,  what 
so  evyr  I  dyde  moore. 

I  trustyd  to  have  fowndyn  myn  Lord  Fitzwalter  better 
lord  to  me,  seyng  whan  I  was  wyth  myn  Lord  of  Oxenforth, 
up  on  myn  desyre  and  request  at  that  tyme  made  un  to  hym, 
he  promysed  me  to  be  good  lord  to  myn  lord  and  me,  wher  of 
I  praye  you  to  put  hym  in  remembrauns,  trustyng  yit  be  the 
meene  of  you  to  fynde  hym  better  lord  to  me  her  aftyr. 

I  have  fownde  myn  Lord  of  Oxenforth  singuler  very  good 
and  kynde  lord  to  myn  lord  and  me,  and  stedefaste  in  hys 
promys,  wher  by  he  hath  wonne  myn  lordys  service  as  longe 
as  he  leevyth,  and  me  to  be  hys  trewe  beedwoman  terme  of 
myn  lyve  ;  for  hym  I  drede  mooste,  and  yit  as  hyther  to  I 
fynde  hym  beste.  I  pray  you  good  cosyn,  the  rather  by  your 
meane,  that  I  may  have  the  continuauns  of  hys  good  lordship, 
and  to  myn  poore  power  I  truste  to  deserve  it.  I  pray  you, 
cosyn,  that  thys  byll  may  recomawnde  [me]^  to  myn  Lady 
Brews  and  to  myn  cosyn,  your  wyf. 

From  Mynster,  in  the  Yle  of  Shepey,  the  iij^^  day  of 
Octobre.  I  pray  you  yeve  credens  to  the  berer  of  thys,  and 
to  Thomas  Jenney,  whan  he  comyth  to  you. 

^  Your  faythefouU  cosyene,  E.  Surrey. 

1  A  mess  was  a  party  of  four  at  dinner. 

2  Omitted  in  MS. 

3  These  last  words  were  written  by  the  Countess,  the  letter  by  her  secretary. — F. 


88 


HENRY  VII 


1005 

ELIZABETH,  COUNTESS  OF  SURREY,  TO  WILLIAM 

HARWARDi 

WYLLIAM  HARWARD,  I  woU  that  ze  delyver  to    1485, 
Robert  Thorppe  of  Norwych  v.  marc  off  the  next  or  later 
money  that  ze  gadyr ;  for  he  hath  lent  it  me,  and 
I  have  sygned  hym  to  be  payed  of  yow  as  sone  he  comyth 
hom. 

E.  Surrey. 

1006 

THE  DUKE  OF  SUFFOLK  TO  JOHN  PASTON2 

To  our  trusty  and  welbeloved  John  Paston,  Sheriff  of 
Suffolk  and  Norffolk. 

The  Due  of  Suffolk. 

RIGHT  welbeloved,  we  grete  you  well.  And  for  asmuche  1485 
as  the  King  our  sovereigne  Lord  hath  late  addressed  oct.  20 
his  letters  of  comission  undre  his  seale  unto  us,  reciting 
by  the  same  that  his  highnesse  undrestondith  certayn  his  rebells 
associate  to  his  old  enmys  of  Scotlond,  entending  not  only  to 
trowble  his  peax,  the  nobles  and  subjects  of  this  Realme  to 
destroy,  their  goods  and  possessions  to  spoill,  and  reward  at 
thair  liberties,  but  also  the  lawes  of  this  lond  and  holy  Chirche 
to  subvert. 

Our  said  moost  drad  soverayn  Lord,  as  a  Cristen  Prince, 

his  said  enmys  and  rebels  to  resist, 

hath  assigned  and  comaunded  us  to  do  all  maner     .... 
and  others  defensible  able  to  labour,  as  well  archers  as  hob- 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  228.]  This  brief  note,  like  No.  1004,  was  probably  written 
during  the  imprisonment  of  the  writer's  husband.  The  text  is  entirely  crossed  through, 
doubtless  to  show  that  the  transaction  was  closed. 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  326.]  John  Paston  was  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  in  the  first  year  of 
Henry  vii.,  and  entered  on  his  duties  at  Michaelmas  1485.  This  letter  therefore  is 
of  that  year. 

89 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1485    byllers/  to  come  before  us  and  charge  them 

OCT.  20  armed  and  arayed,  every  man  aftre  his  degre  and  power,  to 
attend  uppon  his  person,  and  uppon  us,  to  do  him  service  in 
defence  as  well  of  the  Chirche  as  of  the  said  nobles  and  subjects 
of  this  Realm,  against  his  said  enmys  and  rebels. 

We  therfore  wuU,  and  in  our  said  sovereigne  Lords  name 
straitly  charge  and  comaunde  you,  that  in  all  possible  hast  ye 
do  this  to  be  proclamed  : — And  that  all  maner  men  able  to  do 
the  King  service,  as  well  knights,  esquiers,  and  gentlemen,  as 
townships  and  hundreds,  as  well  within  franchesse  and  libertes 
as  without,  within  the  counties  of  Suffolk  and  NorfFolk,  and 
that  they  be  charged  to  be  redy  at  all  tymes  uppon  an  howre 
warnyng,  and  ordered  according  to  the  last  comission  afore 
this,  to  attend  uppon  his  Grace  and  uppon  us  to  do  him 
service,  whatsoever  they  shalbe  comaunded,  not  failing  herof, 
as  ye  wuU  answer  at  your  perile.  Goven  at  Long  Stratton, 
the  XX.  day  of  October. 

And  forthermore,  that  ye  yeve  credence  unto  our  servaunt 
this  bringer,  as  this  same  day  we  receyved  the  Kings  com- 
mission at  iiij.  aftre  none. 

Suffolk,  yor  frende. 


1007 
MARGERY  PASTON  TO  JOHN  PASTON  2 

'To  my  mastyr^  John  Paston^  he  this  delyvird. 

i486  I  ^  YGHT  reverent  and  wortshepfull  syre,  in  my  most 
r^  umbill  weysse  I  recomaunde  me  to  you,  desyryng  to 
^  ^  here  of  your  welfare,  the  wytche  I  beseche  God  to 
preserve  to  His  plesur  and  so  your  hartes  desyir.  Syr,  I 
thank  you  for  the  venyson  that  ye  sent  me  ;  and  youre  schepe 
is  seylyd  owt  of  the  havene  as  this  daye. 

Syr,  I  send  you  be  my  brodyr  Wyllem  your  stomachere  of 
damaske.  As  for  youre  teppet  of  velvet,  it  is  not  here ;  An 
seythe  that  ye  put  yt  in  your  casket  at  London. 

1  Light  horsemen.  2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

90 


JAN.  21 


HENRY  VII 

Syr,  your  chyldryn  be  in  goode  helle,  bellsside  be  God.  i486 

Syr,  I  prey  you  sende  me  the  gowild,  that  I  spak  to  you  of  Jan.  21 
be  the  nexst  man  that  comythe  to  Norwytche. 

Syr,  your  mast  that  laye  at  Yermowyth  is  letyn  to  a 
scheppe  of  Hull  for  xiijj.  iiij^.,  and  if  there  fawyll  ony  hurt 
ther  to,  ye  schall  have  a  newe  mast  ther  for. 

No  mor  to  you  at  this  time,  but  Almyty  God  have  you  in 
His  kepyng.  Wretyn  at  Castyr  Hawill,  the  xxj.  daye  of 
Janever,  in  the  furst  yere  of  Kyng  Harry  the  vij*^. 

Be  your  servaunt,  Margery  Paston. 

I  prey  God  no  ladyis  no  more  ovyr  com  you,  that  ye 
geve  no  lenggar  respyt  in  your  materys. 


1008 

ALICE,  LADY  FITZHUGH,  TO  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  trusty  and  welbeloved  son^  Sir  John  Paston, 

be  this  delyvered. 

JON  PASTON,  I  recommaunde  me  to  you  in  my  moste  feb.  24 
hertely  maner.  And  wher  I  understande  be  my  doghter 
Lovell,  ye  desyre  to  know  whedir  1  woU  have  the  bar- 
gane  ye  made  for  me  in  Norwich  or  nay,  and  if  I  wol,  I  moste 
content  therfor  now  in  meres  ;  Son,  in  good  faith  it  is  so,  I 
shal  receyve  no  mony  of  the  revenowse  of  my  lyvelod  afore 
Mydsommer  ;  and  also  I  have  payd  accordyng  to  my  promise 
to  Sir  William  Cabell  a  great  payment,  the  which  ye  knowe 
wel  was  due  to  be  payde,  so  that  I  can  not  be  of  power  to 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  336.]  There  is  a  difficulty  in  dating  this  letter  only  from  the 
address  being  to  Sir  John  Paston.  It  has  every  appearance  of  having  been  written  in 
the  year  i486,  when  Francis,  Viscount  Lovel,  lay  concealed  shortly  before  his  out- 
break, with  Humphrey  and  Thomas  Stafford.  But  in  that  case  the  prefix  *Sir'  before 
John  Paston's  name  must  not  be  taken  as  indicating  that  he  was  then  a  knight  j  for 
he  was  not  knighted  till  the  battle  of  Stoke  in  June  1487. 

The  writer  of  this  letter  was  the  widow  of  Henry,  Lord  Fitzhugh,  who  died  on 
the  1 2th  June  1472.  She  was  the  daughter  of  Richard  Nevill,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  and 
sister  of  Warwick  the  Kingmaker. 

*  I  find  no  evidence  of  any  real  relationship  between  Paston  and  Lady  Fitzhugh. 

91 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

i486    content  therfore,  for  the  which  I  am  right  sory,  for  I  know 
FEB.  24   V7ell  I  shall  never  have  such  a  bargane. 

Also  my  doghtyr  Lovell  ^  makith  great  sute  and  labour 
for  my  sone  hir  husbande.  Sir  Edwarde  Franke  hath  bene  in 
the  North  to  inquire  for  hym ;  he  is  comyn  agayne,  and  cane 
nogth  understonde  wher  he  is.  Wherfore  her  benevolers 
willith  hir  to  continue  hir  sute  and  labour  ;  and  so  I  can  not 
departe  nor  leve  hir  as  ye  know  well ;  and  if  I  might  be  there, 
I  wold  be  full  glad,  as  knowith  our  Lorde  God,  Whoo  have 
you  in  His  blissid  kepynge. 

From  London,  the  xxiiij*^  day  of  February. 

Your  loving  moder, 

Alise,  Lady  Fitzhugh. 


1009 

MARGARET,  COUNTESS  OF  OXFORD,  TO  JOHN 

PASTON  2 

To  my  right  trusti  and  welbiloved  John  Paston^  Shrieve 
of  JSIorffolk  and  Suffolk. 

MAY  19     I  ^  IGHT  trusti  and  welbiloved,  I  recomaund  me  unto  you. 
r^       And  for  as  moche  as  I  am  credebly  enfourmed  that 
^  Fraunceis,  late  Lorde  Lovell,  is  now  of  late  resorted 

into  the  Yle  of  Ely,  to  the  entente  by  alle  lykelyhod,  to  finde 
the  waies  and  meanes  to  gete  him  shipping  and  passage  in 
your  costes,  or  ellis  to  resorte  ageyn  to  seintuary,  if  he  can 
or  maie  ; 

I  therfor  hertily  desire  praie  you,  and  neverthelesse,  in  the 
Kinges  name,  streitly  chargie  you  that  ye  in  all  goodly  haste 

1  Francis,  Viscount  Lovel,  married  Anne,  daughter  of  Alice,  Lady  Fitzhugh. 

2  [From  Fenn,  ii.  338.]  The  date  of  this  is  quite  certain  from  the  subject  to 
which  it  refers,  as  well  as  from  the  fact  of  John  Paston  being  at  the  time  Sheriff  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk.  Francis,  Viscount  Lovel,  was  one  of  the  principal  adherents  of 
Richard  iii.,  and  was  attainted  after  the  accession  of  Henry  vii.  in  1485.  For  some 
time  he  lay  concealed,  but  in  the  spring  of  i486  he  attempted  to  raise  an  insurrection 
along  with  Humphrey  and  Thomas  Stafford,  who  had  broken  out  of  their  sanctuary 
at  Colchester.  He  is  said  to  have  been  drowned  in  the  Trent  in  1487,  in  endeavour- 
ing to  escape  after  the  battle  of  Stoke.  But  according  to  another  story  he  lived  in 
concealment  for  some  time  after. 

92 


HENRY  VII 

endevore  your  self  that  suche  wetche  or  other  meanes  be  used     i486 
and  hadde  in  the  poorts,  and  creks,  and  othre  places  wher  ye    way  19 
thinke  necessary  by  your  discrecion,  to  the  letting  of  his  seid 
purpose  ;  and  that  ye  also  use  all  the  waies  ye  can  or  maie  by 
your  wisdom,  to  the  taking  of  the  same  late  Lorde  Lovell. 
And  what  pleasur  ye  maie  do  to  the  Kings  Grace  in  this  matier, 
I  am  sure,  is  not  to  you  unknowen.     And  God  kepe  you. 
Wretyn  at  Lavenham,  the  xix.  day  of  May. 

Margaret  Oxynford.^ 


lOIO 

HENRY  VII.  TO.  JOHN  PASTON2 

^0  our  trusty  and  welbeloved  John  Paston,  one  of  our  Esquiers 
for  our  Body^  Shreife  of  our  county  s  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk. 

By  the  King. 

TRUSTY  and  welbeloved,  we  greet  you  well.  And  aug.  12 
whereas  we  send  at  this  time  our  trusty  and  welbe- 
loved clerke  and  counseilor,  Mr.  Edmunde  Chaderton, 
to  do  and  execute  certein  things  by  our  commandement  in 
those  parties,  like  as  he  can  shew  to  you  more  at  large  ;  We 
desire  and  pray  you  that  ye  not  only  yeve  unto  him  therein 
credence,  but  also,  for  the  efFectuall  and  speedy  performance 
of  the  same,  ye  will  be  unto  him  from  time  to  time  in  every- 
thinge,  as  the  case  shall  require,  adviseinge,  aidinge,  and 
assistinge,  as  we  singularly  trust  you,  and  as  ye  desire  to  do 
us  pleasure. 

Yeven  under  our  Signet  at   our  mannor  of  Shene,   the 
xij**"  day  of  August. 

1  Margaret,  daughter  of  Richard  Neville,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  and  sister  of  Richard, 
the  great  Earl  of  Warwick,  was  the  first  wife  of  John  de  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford, — F. 

*  [From  Sandford's  Genealogy  of  the  Paston  Family.]  This  letter  is  derived 
from  Mr.  Worship's  article  in  the  Norfolk  Archaology  on  a  MS.  Genealogy  of  the 
Paston  family.  The  date  must  be  i486,  during  John  Paston's  shrievalty.  The 
transcript  is  of  the  seventeenth  century. 

93 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

lOII 

JOHN,  LORD  FITZWALTER,  TO  JOHN  PASTON  i 

'To  my  right  wurshipfull  cosyn,  John  Paston,  esquyer, 

i486  1^  IGHT  wurshipfull  cosyn,  I  recomaunde  me  to  you, 
SEPT.  19  r^  certifyeng  you  that,  where  as  I  understond  ye  have 
^  ^  distreyned  Richard  Caus  of  Byngham^  for  issuez 
ronne  uppon  hym  in  th'escheker  to  the  summe  of  iiij//.  and 
odde  sylver,  I  pray  you  that  ye  wull,  the  rather  for  my  sake, 
showe  hym  the  favour  that  ye  may  doo,  savyng  youre  sylfe, 
and  that  ye  wulle  not  be  harde  uppon  hym ;  but  if  ye  kan  by 
th'advys  of  councell  this  next  terme  fynde  the  meanes  for 
youre  discharge  uppon  youre  acompte  in  th'escheker,  that 
than  ye  wull  lete  hym  be  so  in  reste  and  peas  withoute  more 
paymentz  for  that  cause  ;  the  which  I  prey  you  to  tendre  the 
rather  because  I  fynde  the  seid  Richard  Cans  at  all  tymez  my 
trewe  servaunt,  and  I  shall  be  as  redy  to  the  acomplyshment 
of  all  youre  resonable  desirez  with  Goddis  grace,  Who  kepe 
you.  At  Attelburgh,  this  Tuesday  next  before  Seint  Mathuz 
Day. — Zowr  Cosyn  and  frend, 

J.  SiEUR  Fytzwauter. 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  176.]  This  letter  is  probably  of  the  year  i486,  when 
John  Paston  was  sheriff.  Its  contents,  as  will  be  seen,  are  somewhat  similar  in 
character  to  those  of  No.  1024,  written  a  year  or  two  later,  after  John  Paston  had  been 
knighted. 

2  Binham  in  Norfolk. 


94 


HENRY  VII 

IOI2 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  JOHN  PASTON  i 

To  my  right  trusty  and  right  welbelovyd  Councellor, 
John  Paston^  Esquier, 

JOHN  PASTON,  I   comaund  me  to   you.     And  as  for    1487 
such    ti thy nge  as   ye  have  sent  hider,  the  Kyng  had   jan.  24 
knowlech  therof  more  than  a  sevyn-nyght  passed.     And 
as  for  such  names  as  ye  have  sent,  supposyng  theym  to  be 
gone  with  the  Lord  Lovell,  they  be  yitt  in  England,  for  he  is 
departyng  with  xiiij.  personys  and  no  moe.     At  the  Kynges  ^ 

comyng  to  London  I  wold  advise  you  to  see  his  Highnes. 
And  Almyghty  God  kepe  you. 

Writen  at  Wyndesore,  the  xxiiij***  day  of  January. 

OXYNFORD. 

Endorsed:  The  Countis  of  Oxfordes  lettre. 

IOI3 

JOHN,  PRIOR  OF  NORWICH,  TO  2 

RIGHT  worchupfull  serys,  we  recomaunde  us  all  unto  1487 
you  in  oure  most  herty  wyse.  And  it  is  so  that 
longe  and  many  yerys  ther  hath  ben  hangyng  a  grete 
variaunce  and  a  growge  bitwix  Annes  Paston  deceassed,  late 
the  wyiF  of  William  Paston,  Justice,  and  William  Paston  now 
lyvyng,  and   Clement  Paston   deceassid,  ther  sones,  one  the 

1  [From  Douce  ms.  393,  f.  78.]  Francis,  Viscount  Lovel,  after  trying  to  raise 
a  rebellion  in  England  in  i486,  escaped  abroad  to  Flanders,  and  joined  the  Earl  of 
Lincoln  in  the  following  spring  in  an  invasion  of  England  in  behalf  of  Lambert 
Simnel.  This  letter  appears  therefore  to  have  been  written  in  the  beginning  of  the 
year  1487. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  writer  of  this  letter  was  John  Bonwell,  who 
was  made  Prior  of  Norwich  in  1480,  and  died  in  1488.  As  it  is  actually  dated 
in  the  second  year  of  Henry  vii.,  it  must  have  been  written  either  after  the  22nd 
August  in  i486  or  before  that  date  in  1487.  Most  probably  it  is  of  the  latter  year. 
It  is  endorsed  in  a  contemporaneous  hand — *  Billa  Prioris  Norwic'  pro  missa  perpetue 
fundanda.'  One  or  two  words  are  now  lost  by  the  decay  of  the  paper,  which  seem  to 
have  been  visible  in  the  text  when  Fenn  copied  the  ms.  for  his  fifth  volume. 

95 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1487  oone  parte,  and  John  Paston,  the  sone  of  the  seide  William 
Paston,  Justice,  and  of  the  seide  Annes  his  wifF,  also  deceassid, 
and  Ser  John  Paston,  Knyght,  deceassed,  and  John  Paston  yet 
lyvyng,  sones  to  the  seide  John  deceassid,  on  the  othir  parte. 
And  now  the  seide  variaunce  contynueth  betwixe  the  seide 
William  and  John  that  now  is  lyvyng  of  and  upon  the  right, 
title,  and  possessioun  of  the  maners  of  Sporle,  Woodhall, 
Pagrave,  Cressyngham,  Swaynesthorpe,  and  Est  Bekham,  all 
[in]  this  cuntre  of  Norffolk. 

Likith    it   you   to  wete  that  the  seide  William  Paston, 
Justice,  in  his  lyve  was  a  speciall  lover  and  frende  to  our 
monastery,  and  for  synguler  love  and  trust  that  he  hadde  to 
be  remembred  amonge  us  after  hys  deceasse,  not  with  stond- 
yng  h[e  dejyed  at  London,  yet  he  bequest  his  body  to  be 
beryed,  and  is  beryed  in  the  chapell  of  Our  Lady  with  inne 
oure  monastery.     [And]  the  seide  William  Paston,  Justice, 
oftyn  and  many  tymes  in  his  pleyn  lyfe,  the  seide  Annes  beyng 
present,  he  shewed  unto  the  Priour  of  our  monastery  that  was 
than,   called  Dawn   John  Heverlonde,^  and  to  Dawn    John 
Molett,^   that  was   Priour   after,    to    Dawn    John    Fornsett, 
Doctour  of  Devynyte,  Dawn  Richerd  Walsham,  our  sexten, 
and  to  Dawn  John  Wechyngham,  and  to  many  dyverse  other 
that  were  of  his  acqueyntaunce,  and  that  he  had  trust  unto  to 
breke  his  mynde  for  the  wele  of  his  soule,  that  were  thanne 
olde  fadirs  of  our  monastery,  and  arn  now  decessed,  that  it 
was  his  verry  last  will  that  ought  of  the  seide  maners  schuld 
be  perpetually  immortaysed  a  serteyn  londe,  or  annuyte  of 
suche  valewe,  that  every  suche  monke  that  syngith  the  last 
messe  in  the  seide  chapell,  wher  the  body  of  the  seide  William 
Paston  light  beryed,  schuld  have  that  day  that  he  songe  messe 
ther  iiij^.  to  pray  for  the  soules  of  the  seide  William,  and  of 
Annes  his  wif,  and  for  ther  auncetrys,  kynred,  consanguynyte, 
aflynyte,  and  frendes,  and  for  all  Cristen  soules  ;   and  over 
that,  a  serteyn  summe  of  money  yerly  to  be  payed  to  have 
the  obytt  of  the  seide  William  and  Annes  zerly  kept  with 
dirige  and  masse  in  the  seide  chapell. 

1  John  Haverland  was  Prior  of  Norwich  from  14.36  to  1453. 

2  Prior  from  1453  to  1471. 

96 


HENRY  VII 

And   it  is  so  that  many  yeres  aftir  the  decesse   of  the     1487 
seide  William,  Justice,  ther  were  many  men  lyvyng  bothe  of 
olde  brethern  of  oures  afore  rehersyd,  and  of  other  that  cowde 
aborne  witnesse  in  this  mater,  and  that  knewe  the  mynde  of 
the  seide  William  Paston,  Justice,  that  it  was  his  last  will,  of 
whiche  men  many  now  be  deceassed  ;  and  no  merveill,  for  it  is 
upon  a  xliij.  yere  past  sithen  the  seide  William,  Justice,  deyed. 
And  also  the  seide  Annes  that  was  hys  wif  lyved  more  thanne 
XXX.  wynter  aftir  hir  husbonde,  and  was  in  singuler  trust  with 
her  husbonde,  and  one  of  his  executours,  and  wele  knowen  in 
this  cuntre,  a  woman  of  vertuos  lyvyng  and  disposicion,  and 
of  goode  discrecioun  and  conscience,  and  knewe  hir  husbondes 
mynde  and  last  will  as  wele  as  ony  lyvyng  creature;   she 
witnessed  alway  that  it  was  hire  husbondes  last  will  to  have 
this  perpetuall  messe,  and  called  on  it  all  the  dayes  of  hir  lyfe, 
and  also  atte  her  decesse  ;  and  sche  seide  that  [it]  was  the  will 
of  her  husbonde  that  the  annuyte  schulde  go  oute  of  the  seide 
maner  of  S  way  nest  horpe.     The   seide  John  Paston  decessed 
wolde  have  hadde  it  graunted  owte  of  the  seide  maner  of 
Cressyngham ;    and   summe   of  the   executours  wolde  have 
hadde  the  seide  messe  to  a  contynued  but  for  the  terme  of 
jjyxx.  yere,  and  wolde  have  made  writyng  accordyng  ;  but  the 
seide  Annes  wolde  not  ther  of,  but  seide  alway  that  it  was  the 
last  will  of  hir  husbonde  to  have  the  messe  made  perpetuall, 
and  the  executours  schewid  to  us  that  they  wolde  se  the  wyll 
perfourmed ;   and  ther  upon  the  executours,  be  ther  comon 
assent,  lefte  a  cofre  with  a  grete  substaunce  of  money  of  the 
goodes  of  the  seide  William,  Justice,  to  be  kepte  with  inne 
our  monastery,  and  tolde  and  schewed  to  us  that  the  seide 
gode  schuld  never  be  departid  nor  hadde  oute  of  our  place 
till  we  wer  made  sure  of  the  seide  annuyte.     And  duryng  all 
that  season  that  the  seide  cofer  with  the  goodes  was  with  ynne 
our   monastery,  it  was  alway  schewid  to  us  that  the  seide 
annuyte  schulde  be  mortaysed  in  perpetuyte,  and  duryng  all 
that  season  that  the  seid  cofer  was  in  our  place,  we  hadde 
money  yerly  yoven  us  to  pray  for  his  soule  to  kepe   [his 
obytt]  ^ ;  and  be  menys  devysed  with  oute  the  knowleche  of 

1  The  writing  is  here  blurred  and  indistinct,  being  written  on  an  erasure. 
VOL.  VI. G  97 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1487  the  seide  Annes,  or  of  ony  of  our  brethern,  all  the  goode  that 
was  in  the  seide  cofre  was  conveyed  oute  of  our  monastery, 
and  after  that  dede  done,  ther  was  no  more  money  yoven  us, 
nowther  to  kepe  the  seide  obit,  ner  to  pray  for  the  soull  of 
the  seide  William,  as  be  the  seide  executours,  savyng  that  the 
seide  Annes,  duryng  her  lyve,  yafF  us  of  hir  owne  cost  yerly  to 
remembre  the  soule,  and  that  that  hath  be  done  sythen,  hath 
be  don  of  our  owne  devocion,  and  this  many  zerys  ther  hath 
no  thing  be  yoven  us,  notwithstondyng  of  our  own  devocion 
we  have  rehersid  his  name  in  oure  bede  rolle  every  Sonday. 

And  now  it  is  informed  us  that  as  wele  the  seide  William 
as  the  seide  John  hath  putt  all  ther  title  and  interest,  as  wele 
in  and  of  all  the  seide  maners,  londes,  and  tenementys  as  of 
the  seide  goodes  in  the  awarde  and  jugement  of  the  Right 
Reverend  Fader  in  God,  my  Lord  of  Ely,^  Chaunceler  of 
Inglond,  Ser  Reynold  Bray,  Knyght,  and  in  you  tweyne. 
And  in  asmoche  as  ze  be  of  our  cuntre  and  speciall  frendes 
to  our  monastery,  and  longest  acqueyntyd  with  you,  that 
makith  me  and  all  my  brethren  the  more  bolde  to  schewe 
this  our  mater  and  interest  unto  you,  beseching  yow  bothe  to 
tendre  the  mater,  and  to  schewe  it  bothe  to  my  Lorde  of  Ely 
and  to  Ser  Reynolde  Bray,  that  atte  suche  tyme  as  ze  have  the 
examynacion  of  the  title  of  theise  seide  maners,  that  ze  will 
vouche  saff  of  your  charite  to  schewe  this  mater  and  our 
interest  in  this  behalf,  and  of  the  seide  annuyte,  and  how 
that  we  aught  of  right  to  have  a  graunt  of  it  oute  of  the 
seide  maners. 

And  in  this  mater  we  hertily  pray  yow  to  take  remem- 
braunce  and  speciall  labour,  so  that  we  may  trust  that  it 
schall  not  askape  your  handes,  nowe  that  the  mater  is  putte 
in  yowe ;  and  all  our  monastery  schall  pray  for  you,  and  also 
rewarde  you  to  your  plesur,  and  over  that,  ze  schall  do  her  in 
suche  a  goode  dede  that  God  schall  rewarde  you. 

Wretyn  in  our  monastery,  the  ^  day  of  ,^  the 

secunde  yer  of  the  regne  of  Kyng  Herry  the  vij*^* 

By  John,  Prior  ofFNorthwich 
and  the  Covent. 

1  John  Alcock.  2  Blanks  in  ms. 

98 


HENRY  VII 


1014 

SIR  EDMUND  BEDINGFIELD  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

Un  to  my  ryght  wurshypfull  cosyn^  John  Paston^  Esquyer^ 

for  the  Body, 

RYGHT  wurshypfull  cosyn,  I  recomawnd  me  un  to  you  1487 
as  hertly  as  I  can,  letyng  you  wytte  I  was  with  my  may  16 
Lorde  Stuarde*  as  on  Munday  laste  paste,  by  the 
desyir  of  them  that  I  myght  not  sey  ney  to.  I  herde  all  that 
was  seyd  there,  but  they  gaate  non  avawntage,  wurde,  nor 
promyse  off  me ;  but  they  thought  in  asmoche  as  they  ware 
the  beste  in  the  shere,  that  every  man  owghte  to  wayte  and  go 
with  them.  Wherto  yt  was  answerd  that  oure  master,'  nexte 
the  Kynge,  havynge  hys  commysshon,  muste  nedys  have  the 
jentylmen  and  the  contre  to  a  wayte  up  on  hym  by  the  vertu 
of  the  same ;  but  yt  was  thought  I  owght  not  to  obeye  no 
copy  of  the  commisshon,  withoute  I  had  the  same  under  wexe, 
where  in  hathe  ben  gret  argument,  whyche  I  understoode  by 
reporte  a  fortnyte  paste,  and  that  causyd  me  to  sende  unto  my 
lorde  to  have  the  very  commysshon,  whyche  he  sente  me,  and 
a  letter,  where  off  I  sende  you  the  copy  here  in  closyd. 

As  for  you,  ye  be  sore  takyn  in  sum  place,  seying  that  ye 
intende  swyche  thynges  as  ys  lyke  to  folow  gret  myschefFe.  I 
seyd  I  undyrstood  non  swyche,  nor  thynges  lyke  it ;  and  yt  ys 
thoughte  ye  intende  nat  to  go  forthe  thys  jorneye,  nor  no 
jentylman  in  that  quarter  but  Robert  Brandon  that  hath 
promysyd  to  go  with  them,  as  they  seye. 

I  understonde  Sir  Wylliam  Bolen  *  and  Sir  Harry  Heydon ' 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  and  that  which  follows  were  written 
during  the  period  of  Lambert  Simnel's  rebellion.  The  rebels  were  at  this  time  in 
Ireland,  but  they  soon  after  invaded  England,  and  were  defeated  at  the  battle  of 
Stoke  on  the  i6th  June  1487.  Francis,  Viscount  Lovel,  took  part  in  the  movement, 
and  is  supposed  to  have  perished  in  the  battle,  or  shortly  after  if. 

*  John  RatclifF,  Lord  Fitzwalter. — See  Campbell's  Materials  for  a  History  of 
Henry  ^//.,  i.  92,  24.1. 

3  Probably  the  Earl  of  Oxford. — See  next  letter. 

*  Sir  William  Boleyn,  of  Blickling,  had  been  made  a  Knight  of  the  Bath  at  the 
Coronation  of  Richard  in.     He  died  in  1505. — F. 

^  Sir  Henry  Heydon,  of  Baconsthorp,  Knight,  had  been  steward  of  the  household 
to  Cecilia,  Duchess  of  York,  and  died  in  1503. — F. 

99 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

148 7  ware  at  Thetforde  in  to  Kente  ward,  but  they  returnyd  in  to 
MAY  16  NoriFolk  a  geyne  ;  I  thynke  they  wull  not  goo  thys  jorney,  yff 
the  Kynge  nede.  Ser  Harry  was  at  Attylborow  on  Saterday. 
I  wene  he  had  a  vyce  there  to  turne  a  zen ;  wher  for,  cosyn, 
yt  ys  good  to  understonde  the  sertente  what  jentylmen  intende 
to  goo,  and  be  assuryd  to  go  together,  that  I  may  have  wurde  ; 
my  cosyn  Hoptun  hathe  promysyd  that  he  wull  be  oon.  As 
fore  Wysman,  he  seythe  he  wull  be  off  the  same,  but  I  can 
have  no  holde. 

Furthermore,  cosyn,  yt  ys  seyd  that  after  my  lordys 
departyng  to  the  Kynge  ye  ware  mette  at  Barkwey,  whyche  ys 
construid  that  ye  had  ben  with  the  Lady  Lovell,  but  wrathe 
seyd  never  well  ;  and  in  asmoche  as  we  understonde  my 
lordys  plesur,  yt  ys  well  doon  we  dele  wysly  therafter.  And, 
nexte  to  the  Kynge,  I  answerd  pleynly  I  was  bownde  to  do 
him  service,  and  to  fullfylle  hys  comaundment  to  the  uttermest 
off  my  powere,  by  the  grace  off  God,  Who  ever  preserve  you 
to  Hys  plesur. 

Wretyn  at  Oxburgh,  the  xvj.  day  of  Maye. 

Your  cosyn,  E.  Bedyngfeld.^ 

IOI5 

[THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  ?]  TO  SIR  EDMUND 

BEDINGFIELD2 

may(?)    ^X  there  as  I  understonde  by  your  late  wrytyng  un 

^^       to  me,  that  ye  have  ryght  well  endevyrd  you  to 

th'execusion  of  the  Kynges  comission  and  comawnd- 

ment,  in  preparyng  your  selffe  with  the  jentylmen  and  other  of 

1  Sir  Edmund  Bedingfeld  was  made  a  Knight  of  the  Bath  at  the  Coronation  of 
Richard  iii.  He  was  likewise  in  high  favour  with  Henry  vii.,  who  paid  him  a  royal 
visit  at  Oxburgh,  in  Norfolk.     He  died  in  14.96. — F. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  MS.  from  which  this  letter  was  printed  was 
evidently  the  copy  of  a  letter,  which  was  enclosed  in  the  preceding.  Fenn  supposes 
with  great  probability  that  the  writer  was  the  Earl  of  Oxford,  but  the  MS.  being  only 
a  copy,  there  is  no  signature  attached.  Commissions  of  array  were  issued  on  the  7th 
April  1487  for  the  counties  of  Suffolk,  Norfolk,  and  Essex,  with  special  instructions 
for  repairing  and  guarding  the  beacons  for  fear  of  an  invasion.  The  Commissioners 
for  the  County  of  Norfolk  were  John,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  John,  Earl  of  Oxford,  John 
RadcHff,  Lord  Fitzwalter,  and  fifteen  others,  among  whom  was  John  Paston. — See 
Patent  Roll,  2  Hen.  vii.,  p.  2,  m.  6,  in  dorso. 

100 


HENRY  VII 

the  centre,  to  be  redy  to  do  the  Kyng  servyce,  whyche  I  have  1487 
shewid  un  to  the  Kynges  Hyghnes,  so  that  hys  Grace  ys  ryght  may  (?) 
well  content  and  ryght  thankfully  acceptyth  the  same,  under- 
stondynge  the  ryght  good  myndys  and  dysposyschon  off  you 
and  off  other  jentylmen  there  towardes  hys  Grace.  How  be 
yt,  hys  Hyghnes  wull  not  as  zytte  put  you  to  ony  further 
labur  or  charge,  for  somoche  as  hys  rebellys  and  enemyes  be  in 
to  Irlande ;  neverthelesse  hys  Grace  wuU  that  the  contre  be 
redy  at  all  tymis  to  do  hys  Hyghnes  servyce  up  on  resonabull 
warnyng  ;  for  so  moche  as  the  Kynges  Grace  intendythe  to 
make  provysyon  to  sende  an  armi  in  to  Irlonde  in  haaste,  nat 
knowyng  as  zytte  whether  that  ye,  and  other  aboute  you  shall 
be  desyird  to  here  ony  charge  there  to  or  no.  And  where  as 
yt  ys  mervellyd  that  ye  had  not  the  Kynges  comysshon,  under 
hys  gret  seall,  I  send  yt  to  you  with  thys  my  wrytyng,  wyll- 
ynge  you  nat  to  procede  further  to  eny  execushon  theroff  tyll 
swyche  tyme  as  ye  have  other  wise  in  comawndment,  alwey 
thankyng  hertyly  the  jentylmen,  and  all  other  for  ther  good 
wyllys  towardes  me. 


IO16 
KNIGHTS  MADE  AT  THE  BATTLE  OF  STOKE  ^ 

Sir  Edmond  Benyngfeld.  [Sir  Richard  De]levere.      junb  16 

Sir  Jamys  Blount.  Sir  J[ohn]  Mortumer. 

Sir  Richard  Croft.  Sir  William  Troutbeke. 
Sir  [Humfrey]  Stanley. 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  135.]  This  is  only  a  fragment,  the  first  part  of  which  is 
lost.  The  seven  names  at  the  beginning  are  the  end  of  a  list  of  knights  bannerets 
made  upon  the  field.  Then  follow  the  names  of  those  who  were  merely  dubbed 
knights;  but  this  list,  too,  is  imperfect,  not  merely  by  the  mutilation  of  some  names, 
but  because  another  leaf  would  certainly  have  been  required  to  give  them  all.  Com- 
pare another  copy  of  these  lists  in  Leland's  Collectaneay  iv.  214-15,  where  the  names 
in  the  second  list  stand  in  a  different  order.  Several  of  the  mutilated  names  here  have 
been  filled  in  from  Leland ;  but,  curiously  enough,  that  list  gives  no  Sir  Gregory  and 
no  Sir  Simon.  Since  this  was  in  type  the  Editor  has  found  a  complete  list,  more 
accurate  than  Leland's,  which  will  be  printed  at  the  end  of  these  letters. 

lOI 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Knyghtes  made  at  the  same  BataylL 


1487    The  sone  and  heyr  of  the 
JUNE  16   Sir  Edward  Noreys. 
Sir  Robert  ClyiFord. 
Sir  George  Hopton. 
Sir  John  Paston. 
Sir  Thomas  Lovell. 
Sir  Humfrey  Savage. 
Sir  Herry  Willoughby. 
Sir  John  Sapcotes. 
Sir  William  Vampage. 
Sir  Antony  Brone. 


Lord  Audeley.-^ 

Sir  Gregory  .... 
Sir  Thomas  Bl[ount]. 
Sir  Robert  Cheyny. 
Sir  William  Car[ew]. 
Sir  John  Wy[ndham]. 
Sir  Simond  .... 
Sir  Roger  Be[llingham]. 

Sir  John 

Sir  George  Nevil  .  . 
Sir  Robert  Radcly[ff]. 
Sir  Jamys  Par[ker]. 
Sir  Edward  Dar[ell]. 
Sir  Edward  Pekeryn[g]. 
Sir  Thomas  of  W[olton]. 
Sir  William  Sand[es]. 


A  mutilated  endorsement  In  Sir  John  Paston's  hand  reads,  * 

.  .  .  fownd.' 


prisoners 


1487, 

or  later 


IOI7 

DAME  ELIZABETH  BREWS  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

'To  my  rytth  worchupfull  son,  Sir  Jon  Paston,  be  thys 
by II  delyvyrd  in  hast. 

RYTH  worchupfull  son,  I  recommend  me  on  to  zow  and 
to  my  lady  tlq^r^x  wyf,  and  thankyng  zow  harttyly 
for  the  grett  labyr  thatt  ze  had  on  Thorys  day  for  me, 
and  for  zowyr  kyndnes ;  for  and  odyr  had  don  asse  ze  ded,  I 

1  Sir  James  Audeley,  as  his  name  is  given  in  Leland's  list.  This  was  Sir  James 
Touchet,  who  succeeded  his  father  as  Lord  Audeley  in  1491,  and  was  beheaded  and 
attainted  in  1497. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  Fenn  dates  this  letter  'about  1487.'  It  cannot  be 
earlier  than  June  of  that  year,  and  may  be  a  few  years  later.  But  the  date  is 
unimportant.  This  letter  appears  to  be  a  holograph.  The  next  is  written  by  a 
scribe. 

102 


HENRY  VII 

had  had  my  purpos  ;  qwerfor  I  prey  God  do  be  them  asse  they     1487, 
do  be  me.  or  later 

Son,  I  must  prey  zow  to  have  a  dosseyn  men  in  harnes, 
with  bowys  and  wepyn  convenyent  for  them,  that  I  may  feche 
my  stres  ageyn.  The  schrevys  man  wasse  here  wythe  me,  and 
[j.  of]  yowyres,  he  seyth  he  ys,  and  he  hatth  mad  me  fey thful 
promes  that  he  wol  be  wyth  me  ageyn  on  Monday,  qwerfor  I 
prey  zow  harttyly,  son,  and  reqwere  zow  that  zowyr  men  may 
be  wyth  me  on  Monday,  as  my  werry  tros  ys  in  zow,  qwo 
sknowyth  blyssyd  Jesu,  Hom  hafF  zow  and  zowyr  in  Yss 
keppyng. 

Be  zowyr  trew  modyr. 

Dam  Elysabethe  Brewysse. 


IO18 

DAME  ELIZABETH  BREWS  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  right  worshipfull  son,  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght, 
be  this  delyverd. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  son,  I  recommaund  me  unto  you  and  I488(?) 
to  my  lady  my  doughter  your  wyfe,  and  I  send  you 
both  Cristes  blyssyng  and  myne.  And,  son,  I  thank 
you  hertely  for  my  son,  William  Brews  ;  and  I  moste  pray 
you  for  the  reverens  of  Jesu  to  help  hym  for  your  tenauntes 
and  myne,  or  els  John  Dynne  will  owver  rewle  them.  And, 
son,  God  thank  you,  ye  helpyd  ons  Whyte  of  Metfeld,  and  so  ' 
I  must  beseche  you  nowe  to  do,  and  that  it  wold  pleas  you  to 
gyffe  credans  unto  the  Priour  of  the  Wyhte  Freres,  for  I  have 
shewed  unto  hym  my  mynd  ;  and  as  ye  do,  I  hold  me  content. 
And,  son,  we  ladys  and  jentil  women  in  this  contrey  that  is 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  nearly  as  indefinite  as  that 
of  the  last,  but  it  certainly  lies  between  the  year  1487,  when  Sir  John  Paston  was 
knighted,  and  1489,  when  William  Brews  died.  If  the  latter  part  of  the  letter  refers 
to  the  levying  of  a  subsidy,  in  which  the  Bishop  of  Chester  may  have  been  one  of  the 
King's  agents,  the  date  is  probably  about  the  end  of  the  year  1488.  Sir  Thomas 
Brews,  the  writer's  husband,  died  in  1482. 

103 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1488  (?)  wedows,  be  sore  trobyld  with  the  Bysshop  of  Chester,^  and 
haskith  of  us  more  than  we  may  pay,  and  that  knowith  All 
myghty  Jesu,  Who  have  you  in  His  blyssed  kepyng. 

Be  your  moder, 

Dame  Elizabeth  Brews. 


IOI9 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  DAME  MARGERY  PASTON  2 

'To  Dame  Margery  Paston,  at  Oxenhed. 

i486-   -m  yT  ASTRESS  MARGERY,  I  recomand  me  to  yow.    And 
95        ^1       I  P^^y  yow  in  all  hast  possybyll  to  send  me,  by  the 
^  next  swer  messenger  that  ye  can  gete,  a  large  playster 

of  your  flose  ungwentorum  for  Kynges  Attorney,  Jamys  Hobart, 
for  all  hys  dysease  is  but  an  ache  in  hys  knee.  He  is  the  man 
that  brought  yow  and  me  togedyrs,  and  I  had  lever  then  xl//. 
ye  koud  with  your  playster  depart  hym  and  hys  peyne.  But 
when  ye  send  me  the  playster,  ye  must  send  me  wryghtyng 
hough  it  shold  be  leyd  to  and  takyn  fro  hys  knee,  and  hough 
longe  it  shold  abyd  on  hys  kne  unremevyd,  and  hough  longe 
the  playster  wyll  laste  good,  and  whethyr  he  must  lape  eny 
more  clothys  aboute  the  playster  to  kepe  it  warme  or  nought. 
And  God  be  with  yow. 

Your,  John  Paston. 

^  The  Bishops  of  Coventry  and  Lichfield  were  often  called  Bishops  of  Chester 
before  the  foundation  of  the  modem  Bishopric  of  Chester  by  Henry  viii.  John  Hales 
or  Halse  was  Bishop  of  Coventry  from  1459  to  14.90. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  James  Hobart  was  the  King's  Attorney-General 
from  i486  to  1509,  and  Dame  Margery  Paston  died  in  1495.  There  is  nothing  to 
fix  the  date  of  this  letter  more  precisely. 


104 


HENRY  VII 

I020 
THE  QUEEN  TO  THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  ^ 

To  oure  right  trusty  and  enterly  beloved  cosyn^  'Th'Erll  of  Oxon. 

By  the  Quene. 

RYGHT  trusty  and  entierly  beloved  cosyn,  we  grete  you  1487- 
well,  lattyng  you  wete  hou  it  is  commen  un  to  oure  i  ro2 
knowlege  that  where  as  ze  newly  entred  upon  oure 
welbeloved  Symon  BIyant,  gentilman,  in  to  the  maner  of  Hem- 
nals  in  Cotton,  descended  and  belongyng  unto  hym  by  right  of 
enheritaunce,  as  it  is  seid,  ze  ther  upon  desired  the  same  Symon 
to  be  agreable  for  hys  part  to  put  all  maters  of  variance  thenne 
dependyng  atwene  hym  and  oon  Sir  John  Fasten,  Knyght, 
pretendyng  a  title  unto  the  seid  maner  into  th'award  and  juge- 
ment  of  two  lenerd  men,  by  you  named  and  chosen  as  arbritrours 
atwene  them  ;  and  in  case  that  the  same  arbritrours  of  and  upon 
the  premisses  neither  yave  oute  nor  made  suche  awarde  be  for 
the  brekyng  up  of  Pasche  [Easter']  terme  nowe  last  passed,  ze 
of  your  owne  ofFre  graunted  and  promysid  unto  the  seid  Symon, 
as  we  be  enformed,  to  restore  hym  forwyth  there  upon  unto  hys 
possession  of  the  seid  maner.  And  how  it  be  that  the  same 
Symon,  at  youre  mocion  and  for  the  pleasir  of  youre  lordshyp, 
as  he  seith,  aggreed  un  to  the  seid  compromyse,  and  ther  upon 
brought  and  shewed  hys  evydence  concernyng,  and  sufficiently 
provyng  hys  ryght  in  the  seid  maner  un  to  the  seid  arbritrours, 
and  that  they  have  not  made  nor  yolden  out  betwene  the  said 
parties  any  suche  awarde  ;  yet  have  not  ze  restored  the  same 
Symon  unto  hys  possession  of  the  seid  maner,  but  contynuelly 
kepe  hym  owt  of  the  same,  wich,  yf  it  so  be,  is  not  only  to  hys 
right  grete  hurt  and  hinderaunce,  but  also  oure  mervaile.    Wher- 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  and  that  which  follows,  relating  to  the 
manor  of  Cotton,  are  both  quite  uncertain  in  point  of  date,  except  that  they  cannot  be 
earlier  than  1487,  when  Sir  John  Paston  was  knighted,  nor  later  than  1502,  as  the 
Queen  and  Sir  John  Paston  himself  both  died  in  the  year  following. 

105 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1487-  fore  we  desire  and  pray  you  ryght  afFectueusly  that  ze  woll  the 
1502  rather  at  the  contemplacion  of  thees  oure  lettres,  shew  unto  the 
said  Symon,  in  hys  rightful!  interesse  and  title  in  the  seid 
maner  all  the  favorable  lordshyp  that  ze  goodely  may,  doyng 
hym  to  be  restored  and  put  in  to  hys  lawful!  and  peasible 
possession  of  the  same,  as  fer  as  reason,  equite,  and  good 
conscience  shall  require,  and  youre  seid  promise,  in  suche  wyse 
that  he  may  undyrstond  hym  selfe  herynne  to  fare  the  better 
for  oure  sake,  as  oure  verray  trust  is  in  you. 

Yeven  under  oure  signet  at  my  Lordes  Palois  of  West- 
mynstre,  the  xxv.  day  of  Juyn. 

[Elezebeth.]^ 
Subskrybyd  with  the  Quenys  hand. 


I02I 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

'To  our  hertly  welbilovyd  John  Paston,  Knyght. 

1487-  T^  IGHT  hertly  welbilovyd,  I  grete  you  wele.  And  where 
IC02  ix  ^^^  John  Howard,  Knyght,  Sir  Gilberde  Debenham, 
■*-  ^  Knyght,  gederith  grete  feloship  of  men,  purposyng 
on  Monday  next  comyng  to  take  stresses  of  the  Lady 
Roos  ;  and  I  deme  that  they  undre  the  colour  of  the  same 
entende  to  set  on  Coton,  and  to  gete  it  if  they  may  ;  I  therfor 
councelle  you  to  sende  downe  a  certeine  of  your  men  or  elles 
come  your  silfe  for  the  save  garde  of  the  said  Coton.  Also 
that  ye  yeve  credence  un  to  the  brynger  herof.  And  our 
Lorde  kepe  you. 

Writyn  at  the  lodge  in  Lavenham  the  last  day  of  Juylle. 

OXYNFORD. 

*  This  name  is  written  in  a  different  character,  intended  as  a  representation  of  the 
Queen's  signature  which  it  somewhat  resembles.  The  writing,  however,  is  crossed 
out.  It  is  probably  the  work  of  the  same  pen  that  wrote  the  words  below,  though 
these  are  in  a  smaller  hand. 

2  [From  Douce  MS.  393,  f.  84.]    See  preliminary  note  to  the  last  letter. 

106 


HENRY  VII 


I022 

JOHN  DAUBENEY  TO  [SIR  JOHN  PASTON]  ^ 

PLEASE  your  masterchep  to  have  knowlage  that  my  Lord  [1487- 
Archebyschop  of  Yorke^  is  in  god  helle,  blyssyd  be  1502] 
God.  And  I  came  to  hym  as  on  Monday  last  past,  aug. 
and  toke  hym  your  letter.  And  whan  I  had  takyn  hym  and 
he  had  over  sey  it,  he  merveylle  sor  of  hyr  dysposicion,  a  bad 
me  not  care,  ye  shuld  do  welle  i  nowe.  And  than  he  told  me 
that  he  had  spokyn  to  Master  William  Paston  for  a  note  of  a 
letter,  hewghe  it  is  best  to  write  to  hyr.  And  so  on  Tewysday 
Master  William  and  I,  and  Skerne  of  my  Lord  of  Oxenfordis 
hows,  and  mad  {sic)  toke  hym  on  Wednysday  o  [i.e.  one]  not 
of  a  letter  the  wyche  I  send  you  ;  and  whan  he  sey  it  he  thowght 
it  to  long,  and  mad  one  after  his  ownne  entent,  the  wiche  I 
send  yow  a  copy  of.  Also  I  send  yow  a  copy  of  the  letter 
that  the  quene  sent  to  my  Lord  of  Oxenford  for  the  maner  of 
Cotton  for  Blyaunt ;  but  my  Lord  of  Yorke  told  to  Skerne 
that  he  wold  in  any  wysse  that  my  Lord  of  Oxenford  shuld 
help  yow  to  kepe  possession.  And  so  Skerne  purposythe  to 
be  with  in  thys  v.  deyes  at  home,  for  to  enforme  my  Lord  of 
Oxenford  of  my  Lord  of  Yorke  is  entent,  and  that  he  se  in  no 
wysse  that  no  man  do  yow  no  wrong  as  moche  as  my  Lord  of 
Oxenford  powyr  may  help  yow  ;  for  Skerne  came  from  my 
Lord  of  Oxenford  to  my  Lord  of  Yorke  for  the  same 
mater,  for  that  my  Lord  of  Yorke  shuld  informe  the 
quene  of  the  mater,  and  be  cause  the  quene  hathe  take  hyr 
chambre  my  Lord  of  Yorke  toke  Skerne  a  rynge  for  a  tokyn 
to  my  Lord  Tresorer  ^  that  he  shuld  excuse  my  Lord  of  Oxen- 
ford to  the  quene,  for  as  moche  as  ye  hathe  (sic)  infeffid  my 
Lord  of  Oxenford  in  a  trost  in  the  mancr  of  Cotton  he  may 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  48.]  The  letter  here  referred  to  from  the  Queen  to  the 
Earl  of  Oxford  seems  undoubtedly  to  be  No.  1020;  and  the  date  must  accordingly 
be  between  1487  and  1502.  The  reference  to  the  Queen's  confinement  does  not  help 
us  to  much  greater  precision,  for  the  time  of  year  does  not  agree  with  any  known 
occasion.  But  some  years  are  distinctly  excluded,  and  the  only  possible  ones  are  1487, 
1488,  1490,  or  from  1493  to  1497  inclusive,  or  1500,  or  1501. 

2  Archbishop  Rotherham.  '  John,  Lord  Dynham. 

107 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

[1487-  no  lesse  doo  but  helpe  yow.  Item,  thys  day  is  the  massenger 
1502]  gone  to  my  Lady  of  SufFolk  with  my  Lordis  letter.  I  shall 
AUG.  have  a  answer  at  the  morn  on  Monday,  I  trost  to  God,  ryght 
god,  &c.,  it  cowd  non  ere  be  sped.  My  Lord  hath  be  all  this 
weke  at  the  Cowncell  at  Chelchyche  and  j.  day  at  Chenne.^ 
Item,  I  send  yow  iij.  writtis  for  feleneys  and  trespace  and  ij. 
for  Mariete  mater.  Also  your  flowyr  ;  Also  a  letter  of  Cablys  ; 
Also  a  write  for  Playter,  a  letter  to  Mestres  Clere.  Item,  my 
Lord  wylle  in  any  wyse  that  ye  kepe  welle  all  the  lyvelod  that 
ye  have  of  Sir  John  Fastolff,  and  that  ye  suffyr  no  man  to 
entre  no  lond  nor  place,  lord  nor  other  personys,  what  sum 
ever  they  be.  Ye  may  veryly  thynke  he  ys  your  speciall  god 
lord,  and  that  ye  shall  knowe  in  tyme  comyng.  I  understand 
that  Calle  dothe  passyngly  welle  in  your  maters  in  the  spirituall 
lawe,  as  his  letter  makyth  mencion,  &c.  Wretyn  at  London 
the  Satyr  day  before  Seynt  La  wrens  day. 

Your  servaunt,  John  Daubeney. 


1023 

ABSTRACT  2 

R[obert]   Clere  to  Sir  John  Paston,  Knight 

Not  Your  farmer  of  Mauteby  has  not  given  surety  and  paid  poundage  for  his 

1     r  cattle,  as  he  pretends.     I  hope  you  will  not  encourage  him,  when  he  tells  you 

he  owes  me  no  duty,  and  that  he  took  not  my  *  merch '  for  twenty  years,  but 

1 4"  7  only  so  long  as  he  continued  in  Heryngby  farm.  I  denied  him  the  replevin, 
because  the  ground  of  my  farm  is  parcel  of  ancient  demesne.  Your  tenants 
complain  of  me  without  cause.  I  hope  you  will  not  be  displeased  if  I  ask  them 
simply  for  what  is  due  to  me.  I  never  said  *  that  ye  shuld  hang  upon  many 
bushes.'  I  have  always  been  glad  to  say  or  do  my  best  for  you,  as  any  poor 
gentleman  in  Norfolk.  I  pray  you  bring  forth  my  accuser  that  I  may  come  to 
my  answer,  and  know  who  would  make  variance  between  us. 
Ormesby,  24  Oct. 

[The  writer  of  this  letter  was  Robert  Clere  of  Ormesby,  who  was  knighted  in 
1494,  and  was  sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  SufFolk  in  1501.  The  expression  'your'  farmer 
of  Mauteby,  shows  that  it  was  written  after  the  death  of  Margaret  Paston,  and  that 
the  Sir  John  addressed  must  have  been  her  second  son,  to  whom  the  manor  of 
Mauteby  descended.  The  date  is,  therefore,  not  earlier  than  1487  when  this  Sir 
John  was  knighted,  and  may  be  many  years  later.] 

1  Sheen.  2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

108 


HENRY  VII 

1024 

JOHN,  LORD  FITZWALTER,  TO  SIR  JOHN   PASTON  1 

To  my  right  worshipfull  cosyn^  Syr  John  Paston,  Knight, 
be  thys  lettre  delyvered. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  cosyn,  in  my  most  herty  wise  I  i488(?) 
[comme]nd  me  to  you.  And  where  I  am  enformed  ^^^^^  7 
that  ye  have  takyn  a  disthresse  within  the  [Dujchy  of 
Lankastir  for  suche  money  as  was  commyng  toward  you  of 
ryght  for  the  tyme  that  ye  were  shiryef,  me  seme,  cosyn,  ye 
aught  not  to  take  it  within  the  said  Duchy  of  noon  auncyen 
demene  holdyn  upon  the  King  ;  for  there  be  places  inow  to 
gadir  it  upon  without  the  said  auncyen  demene,  and  so  ye 
cannot  lose  it.  And  also,  cosyn,  I  am  enformed  that  it  is 
paied  alredy  to  oon  John  Burnam,  which  is  of  sufficyency 
inow.  For  whiche  cause  mesemythe  it  werne  resone  to  levey 
it  upon  hym  than  ther  where  as  is  noon  auctorite  to  levey  it 
upon.  Wherfore,  cosyn,  I  pray  you  to  be  good  mastir  for  my 
sake  to  thies  pore  men,  whiche  be  the  Kingz  tenauntz,  and  to 
shew  them  the  favour  that  ye  may.  And  I  shall  be  as  glad  to 
doo  you  as  gret  plesure  in  tyme  commyng,  by  Goddz  grace, 
Who  preserve  you. 

Wretyn  at  Attylborow,  the  vij.  daie  of  Apryll. 
Zowir  cosyn  and  frend, 

[J.]  Sir  Fytz  Wauter. 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  Sir  John  Paston  had  been  sheriff  in  the  year 
1485-6,  but  he  did  not  receive  his  knighthood  till  June  1487  at  the  battle  of  Stoke, 
so  that  this  letter  cannot  be  earlier  than  1488.  It  is,  however,  not  unlikely  to  have 
been  written  in  that  year,  or  one  or  two  years  later.  The  writer.  Lord  Fitzwalter, 
was  beheaded  and  attainted  in  1495  as  an  adherent  of  Perkin  Warbeck. 


109 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1025 

LORD  FITZWALTER  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

To  my  right  w ours chipp full  and  hertely  welheloved  cousytty 
Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght,  this  be  delyvered. 

1488-  I  ^  IGHT  wourschippfull  cousyn,  in  as  hertely  wyse  as  I 
94  r^  cane,  I  recommaund  me  to  you.  And  forasmoche 
as  ther  was  appoynted  a  day  that  ye  and  my  cousyn 
Heydon,  Sir  Robert  Brandon,  the  Kynges  Attorney,  and  other 
of  the  worschippfuU  of  this  schyr,  should  have  mett  here  before 
this  tyme  of  Estren,  it  was  so  longe  or  the  Kynges  Attorney 
was  commen  in  to  the  contre,  and  the  tyme  so  shorte,  that  it 
hathe  bene  thowght  there  myght  be  non  convenable  tyme  afFor 
this.  Wherfor  they  be  agreed  that  they  and  ye  should  mete 
here  on  Thursday  next  commyng.  Prayinge  you,  therfor, 
that  ye  wolbe  here  at  that  tyme,  trustynge  to  Godes  mercy 
that  a  right  good  wey  shalbe  hadde  betyx  yow  that  all  grugges 
and  rancores  shalbe  layd  a  parte.  And  therfor,  cousyn,  I 
praye  yow  that  ye  wol  not  fayle  for  to  be  here,  and  what 
I  canne  do  for  yow,  ye  shall  fynde  it  redy  with  Godes  grace. 
Who  have  yow  in  His  most  blessed  and  assured  kepyng. 
Wreten  on  Good  Fry  day  last  passed. 

Zowir  lofyng  cosyn, 

J.  Sir  Fitz  Wauter. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]      The  date  of  this  letter,  as  of  the  last,  must  be 
between  the  years  1488  and  1494. 


IIO 


HENRY  VII 

1026 

WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  be  thys  lettyr  delyvered. 

AFTYR  all  dewe  recomendacion,  pleasyt  yow  to  undyr-  1488 
stonde  that  my  lorde^  hathe  ben  with  the  Kynge  in  may  13 
Wyndesour  at  Seynt  Georgys  Feste,  and  ther  at 
the  same  feste  were  bothe  the  inbacetours  of  Breten  and  of 
Flaundyrs,  as  well  fro  the  Kynge  of  Romayns^  as  fro  the 
yonge  Duke.*  But  I  can  not  schew  yow  the  certeyn  whedyr 
we  schall  have  with  them  warre  or  pease  ;  but  I  undyrstonde 
for  certeyn  that  all  suche  capeteyns  as  wente  to  the  see  in 
Lente,  that  is  to  sey,  Sir  Charlys  Somersett,  Sir  Richard 
Hawte,  and  Syr  Wylliam  Vampage,  makythe  them  redy  to 
goo  to  the  see  ageyn  as  schortely  as  they  can,  to  what  intente 
I  can  not  sey. 

Also,  where  as  it  was  seyde  that  my  Lord  Woddevyle  and 
other  schulde  have  gone  over  in  to  Breten,  to  have  eyded  the 
Duke  of  Breten,^  I  can  not  tell  of  non  suche  eyd.  Butt  upon 
that  seynge  ther  came  many  men  to  Sowthehamton,  where 
it  was  seyd  that  he  schulde  have  takyn  schyppyng,  to  have 
waytyd  upon  hym  over ;  and  soo  whan  he  was  countyr- 
maundyd,  thos  that  resortyd  thedyr,  to  have  gone  over  with 
hym  taryde  there  styll  in  hope  that  they  schuld  have  ben 
lycensyd  to  have  gone  over  ;  and  whan  they  sey  [saw]  no 
lykeleod  that  they  schuld  have  lycens,  there  was  ij.C.  of  them 
that  gete  them  in  to  a  Breten  schyppe,  the  whyche  was  late 
come  over  with  salte,  and  bad  the  mayster  sett  them  a  lond  in 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  There  can  be  no  doubt  this  letter  was  written  in 
the  year  1488,  after  Sir  Edward  Woodviile  (called  Lord  Woodville)  had  gone  over  to 
aid  the  Duke  of  Brittany  against  the  French,  and  at  the  beginning  of  the  rebellion 
of  the  young  Prince  of  Scotland  (afterwards  James  iv.)  against  his  father,  James  in., 
who  was  defeated  in  battle,  and  afterwards  murdered  in  June  of  that  year. 

2  The  Earl  of  Oxford . 

3  Maximilian,  Archduke  of  Austria,  was  elected  King  of  the  Romans  in  i486. 
*  Philip,  Duke  of  Burgundy,  son  of  Maximilian. 

fi  Francis  11.,  Duke  of  Brittany. 

Ill 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1488  Breten.  And  they  had  nott  seylyd  not  paste  vj.  leges  butt 
^^^  ^3  they  aspied  a  Frencheman,  and  the  Frencheman  mad  over  to 
them ;  and  they  ferde  as  thow  they  wolde  not  have  medylde 
with  them,  and  all  the  Englysche  men  went  undyr  the  hetchys, 
soo  that  they  schewyd  no  more  but  those  that  came  to  Sowthe- 
hamton  with  the  schype,  to  cawse  the  Frenchemen  to  be  the 
more  gladder  to  medyll  with  them  ;  and  soo  the  Frencheman 
burdyd  them,  and  then  they  that  were  undyr  the  hetches 
came  up,  and  soo  toke  the  Frencheman,  and  caryed  the  men, 
schyppe,  and  all  in  to  Breaten. 

Also,  ther  was  ther  an  inbacetour  fro  the  Kynge  of 
Schottes,^  who  is  now  put  in  grete  trobyll  be  hys  son  and 
other  of  the  lordes  of  hys  londe. 

Syr,  as  I  came  homewerde  be  London,  I  spake  there  with 
Emonde  Dormand,  and  he  seyd  that  he  had  wretyn  onto 
yow,  but  he  had  none  aunswere  ;  wherfor  he  prayd  me  that  if 
I  knew  ony  man  comynge  towerdes  Norwhyche,  and  I  wold 
wrythe  on  to  yow  that  he  ferythe,  if  ye  see  none  other  dyrec- 
cion,  that  he  schall  be  comittyd  to  the  Flete. 

Also,  he  schewyd  me  that  Herry  Wyott  wholde  fynde  the 
mene  to  have  yow  condemnyd,  and  recover  the  obligacion  of 
xl/f.  ageyns  yow,  and  soo  he  seythe  he  whote  nott  how  to  doo, 
for  he  is  halfe  dysmayd  ;  he  ferythe  lesse  that  he  schall  never 
come  home.  But  he  intendythe  to  plede  the  obligacion  ful- 
fylyd  at  Norwyche,  for  he  seythe  ther  is  non  other  remedy  to 
save  yow  fro  the  condemnacion,  tyl  that  he  herythe  otherwyse 
from  yow,  whyche  he  thynketh  longe  aftyr. 

Wretyn  at  Henyngham,  the  xiij'^  day  of  May,  with  the 
hand  of  your  brodyr, 

Wylliam  Paston. 

1  James  in. — See  preliminary  note. 


112 


HENRY  VII 

1027 

THOMAS  ANDREW  TO  WILLIAM  PASTON^ 

To  the  ryght William  Pasion  Squyer 

my  Lord  of  Ox\^ford\ 

RYGHT  worchipfull  sir,  in  my  best  maner  I  recommend  14^ ^(0 
me  unto  you  as  he  that  is  and  shalbe  at  your  com-^^^*  ^  (0 
mandment.  Sir,  I  beseche  you  to  showe  my  good 
lord  and  yours  that  a  cordyng  to  his  commandment  I  have 
sescd  the  good  of  the  parson  of  Testerton^  and  of  Henry 
Fox,  exsepe  thos  goodis  of  the  sayd  Fox  that  whare  formerly 
sesed  be  the  servantis  of  my  Lord  of  Surrey ;  and.  Sir,  all  thos 
goodis  that  I  have  sesed  of  them  both  are  nat  worthe  lytyll 
mony  lytyll  past  xb.  or  iij//.  at  the  m[os]t,  exsepe  the  parsons 
corne  ;  and  if  that  may  betakyn  a  way  thane  the  Chyrche  may 
not  be  served,  and  that  whar  pety.  I  besech  you  that  I  may 
knowe  my  Lordis  plesur  in  that  be  halfe,  for  els  I  thynke  the 
baly  of  the  franches  will  have  alJ,  for  Testyrton  is  in  the 
Dowchy.  And  so  I  am  leek  to  have  lytyll  or  nowt  for  all  my 
lawbour  and  costis  withowt  my  Lord  be  my  good  lord  in  that 
be  halfF  be  your  mene. 

Sir,^  I  pray  you  tell  my  Lord  that  the  fryer  of  Lynne  that 
.  .  .  ak chefF,  for  he  served  a  cherche  in  Nor- 
folk callyd  Horny ngtoft  and  ther rd  a  p  .  .  .  .  s 

callyd  Master  Thomas  Mertyn,  and  as  1  wene  he  had  felows 
privy  to  that  robery  (?)  an[d  otjher  that  be  nat  yet  knowyn, 
and  if  he  whare  well  a  posed  he  wold  tel[l],  &c. 

Also*  Henry  Fox  and  the  parson  of  Testerton  whar  gretely 
(?)  acuequyentyd  and  conversand  with   one  Sir  William,   a 

1  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  139.]  This  letter  is  manifestly  of  the  same  year  as  No. 
1028,  which  apparently  was  written  about  a.d.  1488-1490.  Most  probably  the  exact 
year  is  1488,  when  the  *  Monday  next  St.  Andrew'  was  the  very  day  following,  i.e. 
I  St  December — unless  it  was  1494,  when  the  same  thing  occurred. 

2  Richard  Fenwylc. 

3  Opposite  this  and  the  next  paragraph  the  word  *No^'  occurs  in  the  margin,  in 
the  same  hand,  apparently,  as  the  text. 

*  See  footnote  3  supra. 

VOL.  VI. H  113 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I488(?)  chanon  of  Hemp  ton  Abbay,  cause  my  Lord  to  inquere  if  he 
DEC.  I  (?)  whar  owt  privy  of  the  mony  makyng  or  cny  other  of  that 
Abbay  of  Hempton.  I  know  nothyng  but  that  they  whar 
gret  to  gether,  &c.  Sir,  I  besech  you,  be  good  master  to  Fox 
wyff  if  ye  may  ;  how  be  it  he  is  nowght,  but  per  a  venture  he 
may  amend,  but  she  is  ryght  a  good  woman  be  my  troughe, 
and  it  whar  gret  pety  but  she  and  her  chyld  myght  have  som- 
wat.  And,  my  Lord,  or  ye  send  me  eny  letter  ye  may  send 
it  me  be  John  a  More,  this  brynger,  if  he  cum  agayne,  or  els 
be  Fox  wyfF  if  her  husband  be  not  gone  to  London.  And 
ever  Jhesu  preserve  you  to  your  most  gentyll  hertis  desyer. 
At  Ry burgh  this  Monday  next  Sent  Andrew. — Your  servant, 

Thomas  Andrew. 

1028 

THOMAS  ANDREW  TO  WILLIAM  PASTON  ^ 

To  the  ryght  worchipfull  mayster,  William  Paston^  Squyer^ 
with  my  Lord  of  Oxynford^  [be  t\hi5  bill  delyverd  in  hast, 

DEC.  16      I  '\  YGHT  worchipfull  sir,  I  recomaund  me  un  to  you  in 
r^      my  best  maner,  acordyng  to  my  deute.     Sir,  I  sent 
■*■  you  a  letter  by  Henre  Fox  wyff,  and  I  had  non  answer 

from  you  of  it.  On  of  the  gretest  thynges  that  I  wrot  to 
you  of,  was  that  the  fryer  shuld  be  aposed,  howo  was  prevy 
with  hym,  whan  he  robbed  Master  Martyn,  the  prest,  at 
Hornyngtoft  in  Norffolk ;  also  that  Fox  and  the  parson  of 
Testerton,^  shuld  be  aposed  if  eny  of  Hempton  Abbay  whar 
out  [were  aught']  prevy  to  the  mony  makyng. 

Sir,  now  I  beseche  you  to  send  me  a  copy  of  thes  mony 
makers  confeschon,  and  ther  namys,  for  I  ame  bothe  sworne 
on  the  quest  of  the  oyer  determiner,  and  also  on  the  quest  at 
large,  and  of  that  we  most  make  our  verdyte  at  the  sessyons 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  Thomas  Andrew,  the  writer  of  this  letter,  was  a 
servant  of  William  Paston,  the  uncle  of  Sir  John,  but  the  William  Paston  to  whom 
this  letter  is  addressed  seems  to  have  been  Sir  John's  brother,  whom  we  find  to  have 
been  in  service  with  the  Earl  of  Oxford  during  the  years  1488-90. 

2  Richard  Fenwyk  was  rector  of  Testerton  from  1482-1504. 

114 


HENRY  VII 

after  Crystmes  for  the  quest  at  large  ;  for  we  toke  day  over  148 8(?) 
at  the  last  sessyons  tyll  the  sessyons  after  Crestmes  for  the   dec.  16 
quest  at  large.     Lytefot,  of  your  hows,  is  sworne  on  the  oyer 
determiner, 

I  beseche  you  to  speke  with  my  lord,  to  know  of  his  good 
lordchepe  how  we  shall  demene  ourselfF  in  that  be  half ;  and  I 
beseche  you  send  me  word  as  sone  as  ye  can. 

I  thynk  that  Yelvertons  servant,  that  is  with  you  in  preson, 
shall  com  a  gayne  hether,  and  he  may  bryng  your  letter  to  me. 
He^  bryngythe  you  this  letter,  and  if  it  may  be  nat  a  fendyng, 
I  pray  you  be  good  master  to  Yelverton  for  my  sake.  I  have 
fownd  hym  a  good  persone. 

Sir,  I  shall  not  be  with  my  lady  is  grace  ^  this  Crystmes,  far 
her  grace  shalbe  with  the  Kynges  Grace  after  Crystmes  ;  and 
thane  I  shall  awayt  on  her  grace,  wher  ye  shall  have  my 
servyce  be  the  grace  of  Jesu,  He  preserve  you. 

At  Ryburgh,  the  xvj.  day  of  December. 

And  ye  hepe  [help]  nat,  I  am  leke  to  losse  moche  mony  of 
my  costes  for  thes  mony  makers.     I  pray  helpe,  &c. 

Your  servant, 

Thomas  Andrew. 

1029 
T.  GRIGGS  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

'To  the  Right  Honorable  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght,  he 

this  delyverid. 

RIGHT  reverent  and  honorable,  after  the  ordre  of  all    1489 
diew  recommendacion  had,  I  recomaunde  me  un  to    f^b.  2 
your  maistership.     Sir,  it  is  so  that  John  Talyour  of 
Brytcham,  debite  [deputy]  in  your  office  of  Th'admirallite,  was 

^  Apparently  this  *  he '  means  Yelverton  himself,  his  servant  being  at  the  time  a 
prisoner  in  the  Earl  of  Oxford's  custody.  Fenn  erroneously  reads  *  in  person '  instead 
of  *  in  preson '  in  the  previous  sentence. 

2  Fenn  supposes  '  my  lady's  grace '  to  be  the  Countess  of  Richmond,  the  King's 
mother.  I  should  think,  however,  it  was  more  probably  the  Lady  Anne  Beaufort, 
wife  of  William  Paston  the  uncle,  the  writer  being  in  their  service. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  evidently  of  the  same  year  as  that 
which  follows  it,  to  which  we  refer  the  reader. 

"5 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1489    with  me  this  mornyng  to  have  myn  advyce  in  this  mater 
FEB.  2    folowyng,  the  whiche  is  this. 

There  was  taken  ageyns  Thornham,  in  the  Kynges  streeme, 
leyng  ij.  fadam  and  an  haliFdepe  upon  the  see,  a  whalle  fyssh, 
by  Thornham  men  labouryng  all  nyght  on  Sunday  nyght  last 
was,  and  so  have  slayn  it,  and  brought  to  lande  ;  upon  the 
whiche  your  said  debite  hath  ben  ther  as  yister  day,  and  seysed 
my  lordes  part  therof ;  wherof  the  puple  was  glad  it  shuld  so 
be.  Than  John  a  Lowe  was  there,  and  he  seyd  to  your  debite 
that  he  wold  have  the  Kynges  part  in  this  wise,  that  the  Kyng 
and  my  lord  shuld  part  the  halfF.  Sir,  the  lawe  cyvylle  seyth 
thus,  '  If  any  fyssh  ryall  be  founde  on  the  se,  that  is  to  say, 
whalky  baleSy  sturgion^  porpeys,  or  gra\m]peys^  that  my  Lord 
Admyrall  shall  have  the  halvendele,'  &c. 

I  thynke  my  lord  ^  hath  the  Kynges  prerogatyff  upon  the 
see,  the  whiche  I  remytte  to  your  discrecion,  &c. 

Sir,  by  lyklyhode,  without  ye  take  hede  and  send  thedir 
som  of  youres,  my  lordes  part  shall  be  litill.  It  is  a  greet 
fissh  and  a  ryall ;  your  debite  sheweth  me  it  is  xj.  fadam  and 
more  of  length,  and  ij.  fadam  of  bygnes  and  depnes  in  the 
mydde  fyssh. 

Sir,  remembre  what  ye  have  to  do  ;  there  came  not  suche 
a  casualte  in  your  tyme  of  your  office,  &c.  Wherfore  this,  by 
th'enfourmacion  of  your  sayd  debite,  cause  me  to  wryte  un  to 
you  this  sympill  bille,  praying  you  to  pardone  me  of  the  writ- 
yng,  for  it  was  don  in  hast ;  and  this  bille  I  sent  to  Willyani 
Brykkes  your  servant,  to  Matelask,  by  masse  tyme,  to  brynke 
it  to  you.  And  this  day  they  purpose  to  breke  it.  Do 
hereyn  now  as  it  please  you,  and  Allmighti  God  have  you 
and  all  youres  in  Hese  kepyng ;  besechyng  you  that  this 
symple  bille  may  recomaunde  my  pouer  wifF  un  to  your 
maistershipp. 

Wretyn  on  Candilmas  Day,  in  hast,  at  Welles. 

Your,  T.  Grigges. 

*  The  Earl  of  Oxford  was  Lord  Admiral. 


116 


HENRY  VII 


1030 

MARGERY  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

'To  my  rygth  wurchypfull  mastyr,  Syr  John  Pasfon, 
Knyth^  this  lettyr  he  delyvered  in  hast, 

RYGTH    reverent    and    worchypfuU    sir,    in    the    most     1489 
owmble  wyse  I  recomand  me  un  to  yow,  desyryng    feb.  10 
to    here    of   yowre    welfare,    the    qwech    God    long 
contynew. 

Sir,  myn  brodyr  Wyllyam  recomawnd  hym  on  to  yow. 
And  as  for  the  lettyr  that  ze  sent  on  to  hym,  he  hath  schewyd 
my  lord  the  entent  ther  off,  and  he  thynkyth  hym  self,  that  it 
is  no  part  of  hys  dute  to  have  any  part  of  the  fysch,  or  any 
mony  that  schuld  grow  ther  of.  Never  the  lasse,  my  lord, 
acordyng  as  yowr  desyre  was  in  the  letter,  had  qwestyond 
John  a  Lowe  of  thys  fych,  afor  the  comyng  of  John  Danyel, 
what  he  had  doon  with  all ;  and  he  answerd,  as  for  the  nedyr 
chavyll  [Jaw']  therof,  he  had  put  it  in  sewrte,  and  leyd  it  in  a 
howse,  be  cawse  youre  debyte  [deputy^  seasyd  it  to  myn  lords 
use,  tyll  it  myth  be  undyrstond  wedyr  the  propyrte  ware  in 
the  Kyng  or  in  my  lord  ;  and  so  my  lord  held  hym  well 
content  it  schud  be  so,  in  so  moche  as  the  Kyng  and  my  lord 
have  comawndyd  John  a  Lowe  that  thys  forsayd  chavyll  schuld 
be  browth  up  to  the  Kyng  in  all  goodly  hast. 

Fardermore,    my  brodyr  Wyllyam  perseyvyd   be   yowre 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  erroneously  dated  by  Fenn  1487-8. 
Although  Lord  Woodville  made  an  unauthorised  expedition  into  Brittany  in  the 
spring  of  1488,  which  is  alluded  to  in  No.  1026,  no  succours  were  sent  by  Henry  for  the 
relief  of  the  Duchy  till  after  the  crushing  defeat  of  Duke  Francis  at  the  battle  of 
St.  Aubin  (July  28,  1488).  The  Duke  died  on  the  9th  September  following,  and 
his  daughter  Anne  became  Duchess  of  Brittany.  Commissions  to  raise  archers  for 
the  relief  of  Brittany  were  issued  in  December,  and  musters  were  commanded  to  be 
taken  in  February  1489. 

117 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1489  wrytyng  that  ye  cowd  make  the  remnawnth  of  the  fych  worth 
FEB.  10  a  iiij//.  to  my  lord.  My  lord  wold  ze  schuld  not  trobyll  yowre 
self  no  more  with  all,  becawse  he  thynkyth  that  the  propyrte 
is  not  in  hym.  And  also  anodyr,  my  brodyr  Wyllyam  heryth 
sey  in  the  corte,  that  the  Kyng  and  my  lord  be  content 
that  the  remenaunt  of  the  fych  be  to  the  use  of  them  of 
the  cuntre,  the  wech  ze  schall  here  the  more  serteyn  therof 
here  after. 

Also  my  broder  Wyllyam  seyth,  that  my  lord  wyllyd  yow 
that  ze  schuld  send  the  retorne  of  the  comyscion  as  hastyly  as 
ze  can,  and  mervell  that  ze  hath  not  sent  it  up  or  thys. 

As  touards  the  brekyng  up  of  the  Parlement,^  many 
lykelywoodes  ther  be,  that  it  schuld  contynew  no  wyle,  and 
these  be  they.  My  Lord  the  Archebyschop  of  Yorke  departyd 
as  zysterday,  and  my  Lord  of  Northethomyrlond  schall  goo 
as  on  Fryday  ;  and  also  all  schuch  folkys  as  schall  goo  in  to 
Breten  schall  be  at  Portysmowth  on  Satyrday  cum  forthnyth, 
and  the  Munday  after  on  see  bord,  at  wech  seassun  the  Kyng 
intentyd  to  be  ther  to  take  the  mustyrs. 

And  as  for  thos  jantylmen  that  toke  schyppyng  to  a  gon 
over  in  to  Breten  up  on  a  fortnyth  a  goo,  that  is  to  sey,  Syr 
Richard  Egecum,  the  cowntroller,^  Sir  Roberd  ClyfFord,  Sir 
John  Trobylvyll,  and  John  Motton,  sarjant  porter,  be  a  ryvyd 
ageyn  up  on  the  cost  of  Yngland,  save  all  only  Syr  Richard 
Egecum,  wech  londyd  in  Breten,  and  ther  was  in  a  towne 
callyd  Morleys,  wech  a  non  up  on  hys  comyng  was  besegyd 
with  the  Frenchmen,  and  so  skapyd  hardly  with  hys  lyfF,  the 
wech  towne  the  Frenchemen  have  gotyn,  and  also  the  town 
callyd  Breest ;  how  be  it  the  castell  holdyth,  as  wc  here  say. 

And  ther  be  apoyntyd  serteyn  cap  tens  at  thys  seasun,  wech 
be  Lord  Bruke,  Sir  John  Cheney,  Sir  John  of  Arundell,  Sir 
John  Becham,  Sir  John  Gray,  myn  broder  Awdley,  myn  unkyll 
Syr  Gylberd  Debnam,^  and  Thomas  StaiFord,  and  many  odyr 
knytys  and  esqwyrys. 

1  Parliament  was  dissolved  on  the  27th  February  1489. 

*  Sir  Richard  Edgecombe  was  Controller  of  the  King's  Household. 

2  Sir  Thomas  Brews,  Margery  Paston's  father,  took  for  his  second  wife  Elizabeth, 
daughter  of  Sir  Giles,  and  sister  of  Sir  Gilbert  Debenhara. 

118 


HENRY  VII 

And,  sir,  I   thanke  yow  for  the  lettyr  that  ze  sent  me.     1489 
Also,  syr,  I  have  fulfyllyd  myn  pylgremage,  thanke  it  be   ^^b.  10 
God. 

Also,  sir,  we  undyrstond  that  it  is  anactyd  of  every  x. 
marke  of  mevable  goodes  xx^.  to  the  Kyng,  besyd  the  tennyth 
of  every  mannys  londys. 

And,  sir,  my  brodyr  Heydon  schall  send  yow  the  serteyn 
of  all  odyr  thyngys  grawntyd  at  thys  Parlement,  for  he  hath 
cawsed  John  Danyell  to  tery  all  thys  day  for  hys  letter,  be 
cawse  he  was  with  the  Kyng  at  Westmestre,  that  he  myth  not 
entend  to  wryth  it  tyl  nyth. 

Also,  sir,  Master  Calthorp  hath  payd  j.C.  marke  to  the 
Kyng.  Also,  sir,  I  have  delyverd  the  x//.  to  Master  Hawes, 
and  reseywed  of  hym  the  oblygacion.  Also,  I  have  delyverd 
the  xx^'  marke  to  Edmund  Dorman,  be  my  brodyr  Heydons 
comawndment. 

No  more  to  yow  at  thys  tyme,  but  God  and  the  Holy 
Trinyte  have  yow  in  Her  kepyng.  And  myn  syster  Anne, 
with  all  the  company,  recomawnd  hem  on  to  yow. 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  x.  day  of  Februar. 

Be  yowr  servaunt,  Margery  Paston. 


119 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 
1031 

WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  hys  hrodeVy  Sir  John  Pas  ton  ^  be  thys  letter  aelyvered. 


1489     ^^  IR,  I  recomaunde  me  to  ybw,  letynge  yow  wete  that 

MARCH  7 


Q^ 

^^  As  for  my  Lord  Treserer,^  he  was  not  with  the 

Kynge  of  all  the  counsell  tyme,  the  whyche  was  endyd  on  the 
iij"^^  day  of  Marche.  And  theder  come  my  Lorde  of  Northe- 
thombyrland  the  fyrste  day  of  Marche,  and  departyd  the  even 
afore  the  makyng  of  thys  letter,  and  hath  endentyd  with  the 
Kynge  for  the  kepynge  owt  of  the  Schottys  and  warrynge  on 
them,  and  schall  have  large  money,  I  can  not  telle  the  some 
for  certeyn. 

Also  ther  is  an  rover  takyn  at  Brystowe,  on  [onel  Cowper, 

1  [From  Fenn,  ii.  158.]  This  letter  was  unquestionably  written  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  vn.,  and  not  in  that  of  Edward  iv.,  to  which  Fenn  assigned  it.  The 
writer,  William  Fasten,  was  only  bom  in  the  year  1459,  and  was  still  pursuing  his 
studies  at  Eton  so  late  in  Edward's  reign  as  the  year  1479,  in  the  end  of  which  year 
his  eldest  brother.  Sir  John  Fasten,  died.  The  Sir  John  Fasten  to  whom  this  is 
addressed  must  therefore  be  the  second  sen  of  John  Fasten,  Esquire,  who  was  knighted 
at  the  battle  of  Stoke  in  1487,  and  died  in  1503.  The  year  in  which  the  letter  was 
written  is,  however,  still  doubtful.  I  do  net  find  by  the  Frivy  Seal  dates  of  Henry  vii. 
that  such  a  progress  as  is  here  spoken  of  was  ever  carried  out.  Apparently  it  was 
intended  that,  beginning  on  Monday  fortnight  after  the  date  of  the  letter,  the  King 
should  occupy  a  fortnight  on  the  way  from  London  to  Norwich,  and  arrive  there  on 
Falm  Sunday  Eve.  The  year  must  therefore  have  been  one  in  which  Falm  Sunday 
Eve  fell  between  the  5th  and  the  nth  of  April,  and  Easter  Day  between  the  13th  and 
19th  April.  The  earliest  year  that  will  suit  these  conditions  is  1489,  when  Easter  fell 
on  the  1 9th  April  j  and  that  this  was  the  true  date  of  the  letter  is  made  probable  by 
several  other  circumstances.  In  1489  the  King  was  staying  at  Sheen  during  March. 
A  great  council  had  certainly  met  in  the  end  of  the  year  1488  about  the  affairs  of 
Brittany,  and  is  very  likely  to  have  prolonged  its  meetings  or  renewed  them  from 
time  to  time  to  the  3rd  March  following.  Moreover,  if  our  date  be  correct,  it  supplies 
an  interesting  and  highly  probable  fact  with  regard  to  Henry,  Earl  of  Northumber- 
land, the  fourth  of  the  line  of  Fercy,  who  was  slain  in  an  insurrection  in  the  north  in 
April  following,  showing  that  he  was  with  the  King  at  Sheen  in  the  beginning  of 
March,  and  had  undertaken  by  indenture  to  protect  the  Borders  against  the  Scots, 
not  long  before  he  found  himself  called  upon  to  put  down  the  King's  rebellious  sub- 
jects in  Yorkshire. 

2  Here  follows  some  account  relative  to  a  grant  from  the  Crown,  etc. — F. 

3  John,  Lord  Dynham. 

120 


HENRY  VII 

as  I  wene,  and  he  is  lyke  to  be  hanged,  and  he  confessythe     1489 
more  of  hys  felawis.     Also  Edward  Heestowe  of  Dovere  is  ^^^c»  7 
apechyd  of  treson  of  many  straunge  poynts  ;  and  hys  accuser 
and  he  were  bothe  afore  the  Kynge,  and  then  they  were  takyn   • 
apert.    And  he  hymselfe  confessyd  it  that  hys  accusere  accusyd 
hym  of,  and  many  other  thyngs  more  than  he  was  accusyd  of. 
And  he  had  many  lords  and  gentylmen  to  aunswere  for  hys 
trowthe  and  his  demenynge  afore  tyme,  for,  as  I  hard  sey, 
bothe  the  Kynge  in  a  maner,  nor  non  of  the  tother  lords  nor 
gentylmen  belevyd  not  hys  accuser,  tyl  that  he  confessyd  it 
hym  selfe  ;  and  so  he  is  in  the  Towre  and  lyke  to  be  dede. 

As  for  the  Kynges  comynge  into  the  contre.  On  Monday 
come  fortenyght  he  well  lye  at  the  Abbey  of  Stratteforde  and 
so  to  Chelmnsford,  than  to  Syr  Thomas  Mongehombrey,  than 
to  Hevenyngham,^  than  to  Colchestyr,  than  to  Ipswyche,  than 
to  Bery,  than  to  Dame  Anne  Wyngfelds,  and  so  to  Norwych; 
and  there  woU  he  be  on  Palme  Sunday  Evyn,^  and  so  tary 
there  all  Ester,  and  than  to  Walsyngham.  Wherefore  ye  had 
nede  to  warne  Wylliam  Gogyne  and  hys  felaws  to  purvey  them 
of  wyne  i  now,  for  every  man  berythe  me  on  hande  ^  that  the 
towne  schalbe  dronkyn  drye  as  Yorke  was  when  the  Kynge 
was  there. 

Syr,  Maystcr  Sampson  recomaunde  hym  on  to  yow,  and 
he  hathe  sende  yow  a  rynge  be  Edmonde  Dorman,  and  besydys 
that  he  requeryd  me  to  wryte  on  to  yow  that  it  were  best  for 
yow  to  purvey  yow  of  some  gentyl  meny  thynges  ageyns  the 
Kyngs  comyng,  for  suere  he  well  brynge  yow  gests  i  now,  and 
therfore  purvey  yow  theraftyr.  Also  he  sendythe  yow  worde 
that  it  is  my  lords  mende  that  my  syster  with  all  other  godely 
folkys  there  abowt  scholde  acompeny  with  Dame  Elsebethe 
Calthrop  *  because  there  is  noo  grcte  lady  ther  abowte  ageyns 
the  Kyngs  comyng,  for  my  lorde  hathe  made  grete  boste  of 
the  fayre  and  goode  gentylwomen  of  the  contre,  and  so  the 
Kynge  seyd  he  wolde  see  them  sure. 

1  Not  Haveningham  in  Suffolk,  but  Heveningham,  Hevingham,  or,  as  it  is  now 
commonly  written,  Hedingham,  in  Essex,  the  seat  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford. 

*  nth  April.  3  See  vol.  ii.  p.  no,  Note  i. 

*  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Sir  William  Calthorpe,  was  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  Miles 
Stapleton. 

121 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1489  Syr,  my  lorde  hathe  sente  on  to  the  most  parte  of  the 

MARCH  7  gentyl  men  of  Essex  to  wayte  upon  hym  at  Chelmnysford, 
where  as  he  entendythe  to  mete  with  the  Kynge,  and  that 
,  they  be  well  apoyntyd,  that  the  Lankeschere  men  may  see 
that  ther  be  gentylmen  of  as  grete  sobestaunce  that  thei  be 
able  to  bye  alle  Lankeschere.  Men  thynke  that  ye  amonge 
yow  wol  doo  the  same.  Your  contre  is  gretely  bostyd  of,  and 
also  the  inabytors  of  the  same.  I  beseche  you  to  remembr 
my  hors  that  ye  promisyd  me.     God  kepe  yow. 

Wretyn  at  Schene  in  haste,  the  vij.  day  of  Marche,  with 
the  hande  of  your  brodyr, 

Wylliam  Paston. 


1032 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  righte  worshipfull  and  my  righte  intierly  belovyd 
Sir  John  Paston^  Knyghte. 

MARCH  12  I  ^  IGHTE  worshipfull  and  righte  intierly  belovyd,  I 
r^  commaunde  me  to  you.  And  acording  to  the  Kyng 
our  soverayne  Lordis  commaundemente  late  to  me 
addressid,  I  desire  and  pray  you  that  ye  woll  in  all  godely 
haste,  upon  the  sighte  hereof,  prepare  youre  selfe  to  be  in  a 
redinesse  with  as  many  personnes  as  ye  herbyfore  grauntid  to 
do  the  Kyng  servyce  in  my  company  diifensibely  arayed  and 
therupon  so  to  resorte  unto  me  in  all  godely  haste  possyble 
upon  a  day  warnyng,  horsid  and  harnessid,  to  be  at  the 
Kynges  wayges.     And  God  kepe  yow. 

Writen  at  my  castelle  of  Hedingham,  the   xij.   day  of 
Marche.  Oxynford. 

*  [Douce  MS.  393,  f.  79.]  The  date  at  which  this  letter  was  written  is  uncertain, 
but  it  may  very  probably  have  reference,  like  some  later  letters  in  this  year,  to  the 
King's  proposed  journey  northwards,  as  it  will  be  seen  by  the  last  No.  that  he  in- 
tended to  have  visited  the  Earl  at  Hedingham. 

122 


HENRY  VII 

1033 

WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  THE  BAILIFF  OF  MAUTBYi 

^0  the  Baly  of  Mawlteby, 

MAYSTER  Baly,  I  recomaunde  me  on  to  yow,  praynge  1489 
yow  that  ye  woU  sende  me  be  Wylliam  Kokkys^ 
berer  her  of,  iiij.  nobylles  in  golde,  putt  in  to  the 
same  boxe  that  thys  byll  is  in,  as  thow  it  wer  evydens  ;  for  I 
have  tolde  the  masengere  that  he  schulde  brynge  me  nothyng 
but  evydens,  for  he  is  in  a  manere  departyng  owt  of  my 
servyse,  wherfore  I  wold  nott  he  knew  so  myche  of  my 
counsell.  And  as  for  the  remenaunte,  I  wellde  ze  schulde 
kepe  it  tyll  I  come  my  selfe. 

And  if  Bayard  be  onsolde,  I  pray  yow  late  hym  be  made 
fatte  ageyns  the  Kynge  come  in  to  the  contre,  what  so  ever  I 
pay  for  the  kepyng  of  hym,  and  I  schall  wete  how  goode  a 
corser  I  schall  be  my  selfe,  at  my  comyng  in  to  the  contre,  be 
the  grace  of  God,  Who  have  yow  in  kepyng. 
Wretyn  at  Henyngham. 

Be  your,  Wylliam  Paston. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  310.]  This  letter  is  dated  from  Heningham,  or  Hedingham, 
one  of  the  places  which,  as  we  have  seen  in  No.  1031,  the  King  was  to  have  visited  on 
his  intended  journey  northwards  in  1489.  I  have  little  doubt,  therefore,  that  it  was 
written  in  that  year.  The  writer,  according  to  Fenn,  was  William  Paston,  Sir 
John's  uncle  j  but  it  is  remarkable  that  in  this  same  year  William  Paston,  Sir  John's 
brother,  writes  to  him  from  Heningham,  and  as  the  signatures  of  the  two  Williams 
were  not  very  unlike  each  other,  one  may  fairly  suspect  that  Fenn  has  here  made  an 
error.  This  suspicion  is,  moreover,  confirmed  by  the  fact  that  Mautby  was  the  pro- 
perty of  Margaret  Paston,  who  died  in  1484,  and  that  it  could  not  possibly  have 
descended  to  her  brother-in-law  William,  though  her  son  William  may  have  had  an 
interest  in  it. 

2  Fenn  prints  the  name  *  Hokkys,'  but  as  the  reading  in  the  modernised  version  is 
Cocks,  I  presume  this  is  a  printer's  error. 


123 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1034 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  EDMUND  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  welhiloved  Edmond  Paston^  Esquier, 

Between  T^  IGHT  welbiloved,  I  grete  you  wele.     And  where  as 
1486-9     r^      certein  landes  which  late  were  the  Lord  Scales  by 
^  title  of  enheritaunce,  be  discendid  to  me,  and  to  my 

welbiloved  cousin  William  Tyndale,  it  is  accordid  bitwixt  me 
and  my  said  cousin  that  the  profites  of  the  said  landes,  shalle 
neither  be  taken  by  my  resceivoire  nor  his,  but  that  an  in- 
different persone  shalle  take  and  resceive  the  same  profittes  to 
the  use  of  us  bothe  till  suche  tyme  as  a  resonable  particion 
may  laufuUy  be  made  in  that  behalf.  Wherfore  as  wele  as  I 
my  said  cousin,  havyng  speciall  confidence  and  trust  in  you, 
desire  and  hertly  pray  you  to  take  the  laboure  and  peyn  atte 
oure  costes  and  charges,  to  take  and  resceive  the  profites  of 
alle  the  said  landes,  to  oure  use  and  behofe,  deliveryng  alwey 
the  oon  moyte  of  your  receites  to  my  resceivoure,  and  the 
other  moitee  to  my  said  cousin  Tyndale,  whan  so  ever  the 
said  profites  by  you  so  shalle  be  taken  and  resceived.  Yevyng 
you  full  auctorite  and  power  by  this  my  writyng  to  execute 
the  same. 

Written  atte  Newe  Market  the  vij'^  day  of  Aprill. 

OXYNFORD. 

1  [Douce  MS.  393,  f.  81.]  A  portion  of  the  lands  of  Thomas,  Lord  Scales, 
whose  widow,  Elizabeth,  married  Anthony  Woodville,  Earl  of  Rivers, — and  among 
others  the  manor  called  Scales's  Manor  in  Hockwold, — descended  after  the  death  of 
this  Elizabeth  to  William  Tyndale,  who  was  knighted  at  the  coronation  of  Arthur, 
Prince  of  Wales,  on  the  30th  November  1489.  (See  Blomefield,  ii.  180,  and  Leland's 
Collectanea^  iv.  250-2.)  As  this  letter  must  have  been  written  after  the  accession  of 
Henry  vii.,  when  the  Earl  of  Oxford  returned  from  banishment,  and  before  William 
Tyndale  was  made  a  knight,  the  date  is  between  i486  and  1489. 


124 


HENRY  VII 

1035 

THE  SCALES  LANDS  ^ 

EDMUND  PASTON,  receyvor  of  the  Scalys  landes, 
askyth  to  be  allowed  of  xij//.  xijj.  vn]J.  whiche 
hangith  over  his  hede  in  his  accompte  made  bifore 
Robert  Sharp  at  the  Feste  of  the  Pureficacion  of  our  Lady 
laste  paste,  for  his  costes  and  expenses  for  two  yeres,  as  hyt 
apperith  in  the  sayde  accomptes. 

Item,  the  sayde  Edmund  askyth  to  be  allowed  for  his 
costes  and  expenses  of  this  yere,  Cxviij//.  iiij^.,  beside  his 
costes  commynge  and  goynge  to  this  accompte. 

Item,  for  his  rewarde  of  the  saide  iij.  yeres  ad  placitum 
dominorum.  Whereof  ys  allowed  for  his  costes  by  the 
comaundement  of  my  lorde,  ydi. 

Item,  allowed  by  the  ^ 

Endorsed  in  same  hand  as  the  MS.,  Billa  Edmundi  Paston. 

1036 

HENRY  VIL  TO  THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  ^ 

RIGHT   trusty  and   entierly  beloved   cousin,   we  grete     1489 
you  well.     Inasmuch  as  it  hath  liked  God  to  sende  april  22 
us  good  tidinges  oute  of  Bretayn,  such  as  we  dought 
not  but  that  ye  be  desirous  to  undrestonde,  we  wryte  unto 
you  of  them   as  thay  be  comen  to  our  knowlage,  and  as 
foloueth. 

The  Lord  Malpertuis,  now  late  with  us  in  ambassade  from 
our  dere  cousine,  the  Duchesse  of  Bretayne,  shippid  at  our 

1  [Douce  MS.  393,  f.  80.]  It  is  evident  that  this  document  is  at  least  three  years 
later  than  the  preceding,  but  it  is  placed  here  for  convenience. 

2  Here  the  MS.  breaks  off  abruptly. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  was  evidently  written  in  the  same  year 
as  No.  1030,  in  which  it  is  mentioned  that  Sir  Richard  Edgecombe  and  others  had 
gone  over  to  Brittany. 

125 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1489  porte  of  Dortmouth,  and  arrived  at  Saynt  Powle  de  Lyon,  in 
APRIL  22  Bretayn,  on  Palme  Sonday/  at  iiij.  after  noone,  from  whens  he 
wrote  us  the  disposicion  and  the  state  of  the  countre  there, 
and  of  the  landyng  and  the  demeanyng  of  oure  armee.  We 
received  his  wrytyng  on  Monday  last,  at  evynsong  tyme ;  and 
be  cause  he  was  of  Bretayn  borne,  and  favorable  to  that  partie,  ■ 
we  ne  gave  such  trust  to  his  tidinges,  as  was  thought  to  us 
surete  to  wryte  to  you  theruppon. 

This  daye,  aftre  High  Masse,  comyth  unto  us  from  cute 
of  Bretayn  e  for  said,  and  with  a  new  ambassade  from  our  said 
cousine,  Fawcon,  oon  of  our  pursivantes,  that  ratifieth  the 
newes  of  the  seid  Lord  Malpertuis,  which  ben  these. 

After  the  garysson  of  Frenshmen  in  the  towne  of  Gyng- 
ham  ^  had  certeinte  of  the  landyng  of  our  armee,  thei  drewe 
downe  the  fabours  ^  of  Gyngham,  and  made  thayme  mete  to 
defende  a  siege ;  but  assone  as  thei  undirstode  that  our  said 
armee  jornayned  towardes  theim,  thei  left  the  same  Gyngham, 
where  our  said  armee  arrived  the  Thursday  next  before  Palme 
Sonday,  and  was  received  with  procession,  logged  and  received, 
refreshed  in  the  town  iiij.  dayes.  And  goyng  towardes  the 
said  Duchesse,  thei  must  passe  to  the  castell  and  borugh  of 
Monconter.  In  that  castell  was  also  a  garnisson  of  Frenshe- 
men,  which  incontinently,  upon  worde  that  our  said  armee 
drwe  towardes  theym,  the  Frenshmen  did  cast  downe  gret 
parte  of  the  walles,  and  fled  from  thens ;  in  that  castell  and 
borugh  our  seid  armee  kept  thair  Estre.  The  castell  of 
Chawson,  adjoyning  nere  to  the  towne  of  Saynt  Bryak,  was 
also  garnisond  with  Frenshmen ;  that  castell  they  set  on  fire, 
and  soo  fled  in  the  townes  of  Henebone  and  Vannes*  were 
garnisond  with  Frenshmen,  which  breke  downe  the  walles  of 
the  townes,  and  putte  them  selff^  to  fligth.  Th'inhabitantes  a 
bought  Brest  have  layd  siege  therunto,  and  goten  the  Base 
Courte  of  the  Frenshmen  or  the  departyng  of  our  said  pursi- 
vaunt.  The  garnson  of  the  towne  of  Concarnewe,  which  is 
oon  of  the  grettest  strenghes  of  all  Bretayn,  was  besieged  in 

1  1 2th  April.  2  Guingamp. 

3  Fauxbourgs,  which  Fenn  supposes  here  to  mean  portcullises,  but  I  know  not  if 
the  word  was  ever  used  in  such  a  sense.  Perhaps  what  is  meant  is,  that  they  destroyed 
the  suburbs  to  fortify  their  position.  *  The  word  *  which  *  appears  to  be  omitted. 

126 


HENRY  VII 

like  wyse,   and   drevyn  to  that  necessite  that  thei  with    in     14^9 
offerid,  ar  his  said  departyng,  to  avoyde  the  towne  with  staffe  april  22 
in  hande ;  how  that  is  takyn,  or  what  is  more  done  sithens,  he 
cannot  telle. 

Oure  said  cousine,  the  Duchesse,  is  in  her  citee  of  Raynes ; 
and  our  right  trusti  knyght  and  counsellour,  Sir  Richard 
Eggecombe,  there  also,  havyng  cheefF  rule  abowte  her  ;  and 
the  Marchall  of  Bretayn  arredieth  hym  to  joyne  with  them  in 
alle  haste  with  a  gode  band  of  men.  Mony  noble  men  of 
that  countree  repair  to  our  said  armee  to  take  their  partie. 

These  premisses  in  substaunce  we  have  be  wrytyng,  aswell 
from  the  chefF  capytaynes  of  our  said  armee,  as  from  our 
comptroUour  ^  forsaid.  And  that  our  said  armee,  blessid  be 
God,  hath  among  theyme  selfe  kepte  such  love  and  accorde, 
that  no  maner  of  fray  or  debate  hath  bene  bitwene  theym 
sithens  the  tyme  of  thair  departing  out  this  our  Reame. 
Yoven  under  our  signed,  at  our  castell  at  Hartford,  the  xxij. 
day  of  Aprill. 

Syr,  thys  is  the  copye  of  the  lettyr  that  the  Kynge  sente 
my  Lorde  of  Oxynford  of  tydyynges  owte  of  Breten. 

Be  yowre  brodyr,  Wylliam  Paston. 


1037 
THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  * 

To  the  right  worshipfull  and  my  right  welbeloved 
Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght, 

RIGHT  worshipfull  and  right  welbeloved,  I  comaunde  april  30 
me  to   you.     And  for  as  moche  as  it  is   certeinly 
unto   the   Kynges   Grace    shewed  that  my  Lord    of 
Northumberland    havyng    the    auctorite   to    se    the    Kynges 

1  Sir  Richard  Edgecombe. 

2  [Douce  MS.  393,  f.  83.]  The  Earl  of  Northumberland  was  slain  in  the  North 
on  the  28th  April  1489,  while  endeavouring  to  put  down  a  revolt  against  payment  of 
the  subsidy. 

127 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1489  money  levied  in  the  North  parties,  had  knowleche  that  cer- 
APRiL  30  teyne  persones  of  combnes  wer  assembled  at  Topclif,  and  at 
a  nother  lordship  of  his  nygh  to  the  same,  saying  that  they 
wolde  pay  no  money ;  my  seid  Lord  of  Northumberland  her- 
yng  therof,  and  that  they  wer  but  naked  men,  addressed  hym 
self  towardes  theym  withoute  eny  barneys  in  pesible  maner, 
trustyng  to  have  appeased  theym.  Howe  be  it,  as  hit  is  seid, 
that  he  is  distressed  and  that  they  have  taken  hym  or  slayne 
hym ;  whiche  the  Kyng  entendeth  to  punysshe.  I  therfore 
desire  and  hertely  pray  you  in  all  godely  haste  to  be  with  me 
at  Hedyngham,  there  for  to  knowe  more  clierly  the  Kynges 
plesir  in  this  behalve.  Writen  at  Hertford  the  last  day  of 
Aprile. 

Also  I  send  to  you  a  comyssion  of  licence  to  shepp  corne, 
which  I  pray  you  to  do  to  be  proclaymed  in  alle  haste. 

OXYNFORD. 


1038 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  worshipfull  and  my  right  welheloved 
counceilour^  Sir  John  Fasten^  Knyght. 

MAY  6  I  ^  IGHT  worshipfull  and  right  welbeloved  counceilour,  I 
r^  comaunde  me  to  you.  And  where  as  I  understand 
by  your  wrytyng  that  a  grete  shippe  is  perisshed  with 
you  in  thoo  parties,  and  that  ye  have  ben  gretely  occupied 
aboute  the  savyng  of  the  goodes  of  the  same  ;  and  that  the 
merchauntes  therof  ben  disposed  to  put  their  wynes  to  sale,  of 
the  whiche  ye  maye  by  a  ton  for  O.  and  litel  more ;  I  may  by 
in  this  cuntrey  for  iiij//.,  wherfore  if  ye  may  by  there  eny 
better  chepe,  I  pray  you  to  purveye  for  me,  such  as  ye  seme 
necessary. 

And  forsomoche  as  ye  may  nat  be  here  with  me  at  this 
tyme,  I  desire  and  pray  you  to  prepare  and  ordeyne  your  self 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     For  the  date  of  this  letter,  see  preliminary  note 
to  the  next. 

128 


HENRY  VII 

with  as  many  men  in  harneys  as  ye  godely  may,  to  do  the     1489 
Kyng   service    in   my  company,  at  the   Kynges  charge  and    way  6 
costes,  so  as  ye  and  they  may  be  with  me  at  Cambrige,  upon 
Tewesday  ^  next  comyng  ;  and  that  ye  faile  nat  herof,  as  my 
right  especial  trust  is  in  you. 

Writen  at  my  castell  of  Hedyngham,  the  vj.  daye  of  May. 

OXYNFORD. 

1039 
WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON « 

To  hys  brodyvy  Syr  John  Paston, 

SYR,  I  recomaunde  me  on  to  yow.  And  where  as  ye  may 
desyre  that  I  schulde  sende  yow  worde  of  suche  tydyng 
as  Phylyp  Lewes  and  Wyndesor  bryngythe  fro  the 
corte,  they  be  come  thens  bothe,  but  we  here  of  no  tydynges 
that  they  brynge,  but  that  yondyr  folkys  abyde  stylle  abowte 
the  place  where  as  thys  onhappy  dede  was  done,  and  not  with 
no  grete  nowmbyr,  they  sey  not  paste  with  v.  or  vj.  C,  where 
they  were  moste.  Howbeyt  they  have  made  proclamacions 
in  the  cuntrey  to  mete  with  oder  of  ther  afiynyte  as  on  Tues- 
day last  past,  as  it  aperythe  in  the  copy  of  ther  proclamacion 
heraftyr  folowyng.  Also  they  schewe  the  Kynge  intendythe 
to  holde  on  hys  jurney.  And  Phylyp  Lewes  is  redyn  ageyn 
to  the  Kyng,  and  schall  brynge  with  hym  money  for  all  ther 
wages  that  schall  be  in  my  lordys  retynew,  as  yow  and  vj.  of 
Syr  Wylliam  Bolens  servauntes  and  od[yrs]. 

Syr,  Mr.  Clopton  sye  [saw\  yowre  lettyr,  and  a  seythe  he 
knew  my  lordes  mende  suche,  that  he  durste  not  meve  hym 
with  it.     Ther  was  Syr  Wylliam  Say,  but  Clopton  wolde  not 

1  12th  May. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  It  is  evident  that  this  letter  was  written  shortly 
after  the  preceding,  which  is  dated  the  6th  May.  In  that  letter  Paston  is  desired  to 
be  at  Cambridge  on  the  Tuesday  following  to  do  the  King  service,  and  here  we  find 
that  it.  was  intended  by  the  King  himself  to  have  been  there,  leading  an  army  against 
some  Northern  rebels  in  person.  The  expressions  in  the  beginning  of  this  letter  leave 
very  little  doubt  that  the  insurrection  referred  to  was  that  in  which  the  Earl  of 
Northumberland  was  slain  on  the  28th  April  1489. — See  Leland's  Collectanea^  iv. 
246. 

VOL.  VI. 1  129 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1489  it  schulde  be  knowen  of  non  other  but  your  selfe.  He  sent 
MAY  my  lorde  be  a  servaunt  of  hys  xUi.  to  have  excusyid  hym,  and 
it  wolde  not  be  takyn,  and  that  I  mervell  of.  Howbeyt  he 
brake  thus  fer  to  my  lorde ;  he  asched  hym  how  many  he 
apoyntyd  yow  to  brynge  with  yow,  and  he  answerde  hym 
xx'',  and  than  he  schewyd  hym  yowr  charges  that  ye  have  had. 
My  lorde  seyd  ye  myght  have  men  a  nowe,  and  ther  wages 
schal  be  payd  for.  Clopton  aunswerde  how  that  it  wolde 
coste  yow  large  money,  besyde  ther  wages,  to  hors  them  and 
hemes  them  ;  and  how  that,  to  sey  the  trowthe,  ye  were  not 
well  at  ese. 

Not  withstandynge  all  thys,  my  lorde  wyllyd  that  ye 
schulde  come  to  hym  to  Cambryge  on  Tuesday  at  nyght,  with 
as  many  as  ye  myght,  and  ye  and  he  schulde  do  well  i  now. 
Soo  Clopton  thyngyth  that  and  ye  brynge  a  dosen  with  yow, 
it  is  suffycyent ;  howbeyt  that  Syr  Emonde  Bedvngfeld,  Syr 
Thomas  Tyrell,  and  Syr  Rye.  Lewes  have  ben  with  my  lorde, 
and  yche  of  them  have  ofFyrde  to  mete  with  my  lorde  at 
Cambryge  with  xxx.  men  a  pese  of  them.  So  I  wolde  not  ye 
schulde  be  to  ferre  undyr  them ;  wherfor  I  thynke  best  that 
ye  purvey  yow  so  as  and  ye  schulde  goo  forthe  yor  selfe,  for  I 
can  perseve  non  othyr  wyse. 

My  bedfelawe  Cornwaleys  is  maryed  in  the  Northe,  and 
he  came  as  yesternyght  to  my  lorde  streyt  owt  of  the  contre, 
and  he  scheythe  [showef/i]  non  othyr  wyse  but  as  I  have  wretyn 
here  afore  in  thys  lettyr. 

Ye  schall  have  for  yor  self  and  for  yche  of  your  servauntes 
horsyd  and  hernessyd  xxs.  in  hande  at  Cambryge  for  a  monthe, 
and  I  truste  we  schal  have  done  or  xx.  days  to  an  ende,  with 
the  grace  of  God,  Who  have  yow  in  kepynge. 

At  Henyngham. 

Be  your  brodyr, 

Wylliam  Paston. 

[The  Rebels^  Froclamacion^ 

To  be  knowyn  to  all  the  northe  partes  of  England,  to 
every  lorde,  knyght,  esquyer,  gentylman,  and  yeman  that  they 
130 


HENRY  VII 

schalbe  redy  in  ther  defensable  aray,  in  the  est  parte,  on  1489 
Tuysday  next  comyng,  on  Aldyrton  More,  and  in  the  west  way 
parte  on  Gateley  More,  the  same  day,  upon  peyne  of  losyng 
of  ther  goodes  and  bodyes,  for  to  gcynstonde  suche  persons  as 
is  abowtward  for  to  dystroy  oure  sufFereyn  Lorde  the  Kynge 
and  the  Comowns  of  Engelond,  for  suche  unlawfull  poyntes  as 
Seynt  Thomas  of  Cauntyrbery  dyed  for ;  and  thys  to  be  ful- 
fyllyd  and  kept  by  every  ylke  comenere  upon  peyn  of  dethe. 

And  thys  is  in  the  name  of  Mayster  Hobbe  Hyrste,  Robyn 
Godfelaws  brodyr  he  is,  as  I  trow. 


1040 
THE  BISHOP  OF  DURHAM  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  the  right  worshypful  sire^  and  my  right  trusty  and  right  entierly 
wel  heloffyd  freynde^  Sire  John  Paston,  Knyght. 

IH2.     Xp9. 

RYGHT  wortchipful  sire,  and  myne  especial  and  of  long  1490 
tyme  apprevyd,  trusty  and  feythful  frende,  I  in  jan.  27 
myne  hertyeste  wyse  recommaunde  me  un  to  you. 
And  for  as  myche  as  I  hafe  coles  and  odyr  thynges  in  thise 
parties,  and  also  ye  hafe  in  those  parties  cornes,  wyne,  and 
wax,  and  as  I  am  enfourmyd  ye  be  noght  evyl  wyllyd  to 
dele  with  me,  no  more  than  I  am  to  dele  with  you  in  utter- 
yng,  and  also  in  receyvyng  of  suche  thynges,  the  whiche 
myght  be  to  the  profete  of  us  bothe,  I  ther  fore  send  un  to 
you  at  thys  tyme  thys  berer,  William  Walkere,  gentylman 
usshere  of  my  chamber,  to  commune  with  you  herein,  so  that 
by  delyberation  suche  a  wey  may  be  takyn  in  thys  byhalfe  as 
may  be  to  the  profete  of  either  of  us,  and  wher  by  our 
familiarite  and  frendeship  may  be  encrescyd  in  tyme  to  cum. 
Where  un  to  for  our  old  acquayntance  to  gedyr,  ye  shal  fynde 
me  ful  redy  after  my  powere,  by  the  grace  of  our  Lorde, 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1490    Who  ever  kepe  you,  and  send  you  myche  worship  and  long 
JAN.  27    prosper ite. 

Scribyllyd  in  the  moste  haste,  at  my  castel  or  manoir  of 
Aucland,  the  xxvij.  day  of  January  1489.^ 

Your  own  trewe  luffer  and  frende, 

John  Duresme.^ 


1 04 1 

LUMEN  HARYSON  TO  [SIR  JOHN  PASTON]  ^ 

About  y^^NERABYLL  and  well  be  lovyd  knythe,  I  commend 
i49o(?)  1  1  me  on  to  zour  masterchepe  and  to  my  lady  zowyr 
^-^  wyiFe.  I  thanke  zowyr  mastyrchepe  that  ze  have 
don  for  me.  I  sen  my  lady  a  lytyll  pes  of  Renysch  wyne  of 
the  best,  of  x.  gallons,  and  halfe  a  hondyrd  orrygys.  I  schall 
send  hyr  mor  a  geyns  Pencost  that  sche  may  have  fresche. 
And  Renold  have  not  gyvt  me  the  to  nobyls  and  xlj^.,  that  ze 
told  me  off  for  the  wyne.  And  my  servys  be  nyzt  and  be  day 
to  zowr  commawndment.  ZyfF  zowyr  mastyrchep  wyll  ony 
thyng  wyth  me,  I  xall  be  at  Cley.  No  more  than  God  be 
wyth  zow. 

Wrytyn  up  on  the  Tuysday  aftyr  Palme  Sonday. 

Lumen  Haryson. 
At  zowyr  comawndment. 

1  1490  according  to  the  modern  computation,  beginning  the  year  in  January  in- 
stead of  on  the  25th  March. 

2  John  Sherwood,  Bishop  of  Durham.  He  was  appointed  to  that  see  by  the  Pope 
in  1485  at  the  solicitation  of  King  Richard  iii.  He  was  a  man  of  high  character  and 
learning,  and  one  of  the  earliest  Greek  scholars  in  England. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  was  printed  in  volume  v.  of  the  original 
edition,  p.  380.  I  do  not  know  Sir  John  Fenn's  reason  for  considering  it  to  have 
been  written  'about  1490,'  but  as  I  see  nothing  to  the  contrary,  I  keep  it  under  his 
date.  The  writer  was  probably  one  of  the  German  merchants  of  the  Hanse,  and  the 
name  with  which  he  signs  the  letter  seems  to  have  been  a  little  Anglicised.  It  is 
endorsed  by  Sir  John,  *  Lumen  Henrikson.' 


132 


HENRY  VII 

1042 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  [LORD  FITZW ALTER]  ^ 

HUMBLY  besecheth  your  good  lordshepe,  your  dayly  About 
servaunt  and  beedman,  John  Fasten,  more  kaytefFi49o(?) 
than  knyght,  that  it  may  please  you  of  your  specyall 
grace  to  dyrect  ought  your  lettres,  sygned  with  your  hand  and 
sealid  with  your  seall,  to  the  dreedfull  man,  Jamys  RadclifF  of 
Byllingforth,  Sqwyer,  fermour  of  your  wareyn  ther,  ought  of 
wheys  wareyn  no  maner  of  man  nor  vermyn  dare  take  on 
hym,  for  dought  of  your  seyd  dredfuU  [man],  to  take  or  carye 
awey  eny  of  your  game  ther,  for  fere  [of  being]  hangyd  up 
among  other  mysdoers  and  forfaytours,  as  wesellis,  lobsters 
[stoats]y  polkattys,  bosartys  l/iawks],  and  mayne  currys, — that 
the  seyd  Jamys  shall,  upon  the  syght  of  your  seyd  wryghtyng, 
delyver,  or  cause  to  be  delyverd,  to  your  seyd  besecher  or  to 
hys  depute,  delyverer  of  your  seyd  lettres,  at  hys  fyrst  syght 
of  the  same,  vj.  coupyll  blake  conyes  or  rennyng  rabbettys,  or 
some  blake  and  some  whyght  to  the  seyd  nombre,  to  store 
with  a  newe  grownd  of  your  seyd  besecher s  at  Oxenhed,  more 
lyeke  a  pynnefold  than  a  parke.  And  your  seyd  besecher 
shall  daylye  prey  to  God  for  the  preservacyon  of  your  noble 
estate  longe  t'endure. 

^  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  humorous  petition,  though  it  bears  no  address, 
was  certainly  drawn  up  for  presentation  to  Sir  John  Radcliff,  Lord  Fitzwalter,  the 
writer  of  Letters  1024  and  1025,  for  he  was  lord  of  the  manor  of  Billingford  in  Norfolk, 
and  James  RadcliflF,  the  farmer  of  his  warren,  was  evidently  his  kinsman.  The  date 
is  probably,  as  Fenn  suggests,  'about  1490,'  certainly  before  1495,  when  Lord  Fitz- 
walter was  beheaded.     The  MS.  is  a  rough  draft  in  Paston's  hand. 


^33 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1043 

THE  EARL  OF  SURREY  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  worshipfull  cousine,  Sir  John  Pastotiy  Knyght. 

1490,  Tp\  IGHT  worshipfull  cousine,  in  right  harty  wyse  I  com- 
or  later  r^  maunde  me  unto  you.  And  where  I  understand  by 
Thomas  Hartforde,  a  bower  of  Norwiche,  berer  herof, 
hath  been  putt  to  grete  vexacion  and  trouble  by  oon  Thomas 
Hogan,  scomaker,  of  Norwiche,  and  that  1  perceyve  ye  have 
harde  the  matier  depending  in  travers  bitwixt  the  saide  parties  ; 
I  therfore  desire  you  that,  in  the  right  of  the  forsayd  Thomas 
Hartford,  ye  wolbe  unto  hym  gode  maistir,  and  the  bettir  for 
this  myn  instaunce,  as  my  singler  trust  is  in  you. 

And  where  I  conceyve  also  that  the  same  Thomas  is  noysed 
in  NorfFolk  for  a  Scotesman  borne,  ye  shall  understande  that  I 
perceyve  wele,  by  suche  honest  folkes  as  I  have  hard  speke 
within  the  citie  of  York,  that  the  saide  Thomas  was  borne 
their,  and  his  fathir  there  inhabityng,  and  his  god  fathirs  and 
mothers,  the  which  bee  right  honest  persones ;  and  for  that 
this  is  true,  and  not  feyned,  ye  shall  understand  the  Maiour 
of  the  citie  of  York  and  his  brethern  hath  made  grete  instaunce 
unto  me  to  writ  for  the  saide  Thomas,  for  whom  I  must  nedes 
do,  because  thaye  arre  my  nye  neighbours,  as  our  Lord 
knoweth,  Who  have  you  in  His  blissid  saufegard. 

Written  in  the  castell  of  Shirethoton,  the  xxiiij*^  day  of 
Aprill. 

Your  lovyng  cousin,  Thomas  Surrey. 

1  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  Thomas  Howard,  Earl  of  Surrey,  the  writer  of  this 
letter,  fought  for  Richard  iii.  at  the  battle  of  Bosworth,  and  was  taken  prisoner.  He 
was,  however,  after  some  years'"  confinement,  liberated  from  the  Tower,  and  taken  into 
favour.  In  1489  the  King  sent  him  into  the  North  to  put  down  the  rebellion  in 
which  the  Earl  of  Northumberland  was  slain,  and  afterwards  made  him  his  lieutenant- 
general  north  of  Trent  J  and  for  ten  years  he  resided  continually  in  those  parts.  The 
date  of  this  letter,  therefore,  cannot  be  earlier  than  1490,  though  it  may  be  several 
years  later. 

134 


HENRY  VII 

1044 

THE  EARL  OF  SURREY  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 
To  my  right  worshipfull  Cousin,  Sir  John  Paston, 

COUSIN  Paston,  in  my  most  herty  wyse  I  recomaund  1490, 
me  unto  you,  and  thank  you  for  many  kindnesses  of  or  later 
tyme  past,  and  also  for  that  ye  have  bene  so  good  maister 
unto  my  sarvaunt  William  May,  and  now  at  his  comyng  to  me 
ye  have  at  your  greate  coste  sent  him  to  me  dressed  in  suche 
wise  as  is  veray  necessary  for  me  to  have  men  appareled  ;  for 
the  whiche  your  kindnesse  I  think  myselfe  right  muche 
beholden  to  do  you  pleasure  and  it  moght  lye  in  my  power, 
which  I  wuld  right  gladly  do,  as  knoweth  our  Lord,  whom  I 
beseche  to  send  you  moche  harte  pleasure.  Wreten  at  Sherif- 
hoton,  the  vj*^  day  of  July,  with  the  hand  of 

Your  lovyng  Cousin,         Thomas  Su[rrey].^ 

1045 
THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  » 

To  the  right  worshipfull  and  my  right  intierly  welbelovyd 
counsellour.  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  and  right  intierly  welbelovyd  coun-  I49i(?) 
cellour,    I   commaund    me    hertely    to    you.       And  march  27 
forasmoche  as  for  certayne  especiall  causes  moving, 
there  be  sessions  appoynted  to  be  holden  at  Gyppiswiche,  the 

1  [ms.  in  Pembroke  College,  Cambridge.]  This  letter  may  well  follow  the  last  as 
being  probably  of  the  same  year.  At  all  events  it  lies  within  much  the  same  range  of 
date. 

*  Mutilated.  Below  is  written  in  a  later  hand,  and  also  mutilated :  *  Thomas 
Howard,  Earl  of  Surrey,  the  ....  of  Scots  at  Flodden.'  The  letter  is  indorsed  *Litt. 
Com.  Surrey.' 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  As  *  Friday  se'nnight  after  Easter'  was  the  15th 
April,  Easter  Day  must  have  tallen  on  the  3rd  in  the  year  in  which  this  letter  was 
written.     This  would  suit  either  1491  or  1496. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

I49i(?)  Friday  sevenyght  aftre  Estre,  which  shall  be  the  xv.  day  of 
MARCH  27  Aprile,  where  I  purpose  then  certaynly  to  be,  and  to  have 
aswell  the  matere  by  twene  Sir  Edmounde  Benyngfeld^  and 
Yelverton  ^  there  to  be  harde  and  commenyd,  as  diverse  othre 
grete  maters  in  that  contrey  necessary  to  be  had  in  comynyca- 
cion  ;  I  therfor  desire  and  pray  you  that  ye  fayle  nat  to  be 
there  the  same  day,  bryngyng  with  you  the  forseide  Yelverton, 
trusting  that  then  suche  direccion  shall  be  takyn  in  that  matere 
as  can  be  thought  resonable,  and  to  the  weale  of  the  parties  ; 
nat  doubting  but  that  Sir  Edmound  Benyngfeld  shall  be  there 
in  like  wise.     And  Almyghty  God  kepe  you. 

Wretin  at  my  castell  of  Hedingham,  the  xxvij.  day  of 
Marche. 

OXYNFORD. 


1046 
HENRY  VII.  TO  THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  ^ 
^491     TT)  YGHT  trusty  and  ryght  welbelovyd  cousyn,  we  grete 


R 


APRIL  0  1^  y.Q^  Tj^glj^  g2:c.  In  that  ye  desyer  all  the  dogers 
\_Jishing  smacks]  of  thos  partes  schuld  have  our  licens 
to  departe  in  the  viage  towardes  Islond,  as  they  have  ben 
accustommyd  to  do  yerly  in  tyme  passyd,  and  that  ye  woU 
undertak  they  shall  have  with  them  no  more  quantites  of 
graynes  then  woU  only  suffice  for  ther  vitallyng  and  expensis  ; 
we  late  yow  witte  that  owr  fully  interly  belovyd  cousyn  the 
Kyng  of  Demarke  hath  showyd  and  compleynyd  un  to  us  by 
dy verse  his  letters,  that  when  our  subjectes  come  to  the  seid 
Islelond,  beyng  in  hys  obeissiance,  they  stelle,  robbe,  and 
exstorte  his  subjectes  ther  ageynse  ryght  and  conciens.  Wher- 
fore,  the  seyd  doggeres  fyndyng  sufficient  surte  be  forne  yow, 
such  as  ye  will  answer  unto  us,  that  they  shall  not  have  with 
them  no  graynes  mo  then  shall  only  suffice  for  ther  vitallyng, 

*  Bedingfield. 

2  William  Yelverton,  Sir  John  Paston's  brother-in-law,  grandson  of  the  Judge. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

136 


HENRY  VII 

nor  odyr  thyng  woth  them  that  ys  for  bedyn,  and  that  also  1491 
they  shall  not  in  goyng,  comyng,  nor  in  ther  beyng  at  the  seyd  april6 
Islond,  take  noo  thyng  but  that  they  treuly  pay  or  agre  for, 
and  frendly  entrete  our  seyd  cousyns  subjectes  withowth  eny 
robbyng  or  exstartyng  them  in  there  bodyes  ner  goodys  ;  we 
be  content  the  seyd  doggeres  make  ther  viages  thedyr  at  ther 
libertes,  cny  our  wrytyng  or  comandment  mad  in  to  the  con- 
trary nat  withstandyng  ;  and  ellys  we  woll  that  our  restraynte 
of  ther  thedyr  goyng  stond  styll  in  his  strenthe  and  vertu. 

Yovyn  ondir  our  signet,  at  our  maner  of  Shene,  the  vj*'* 
day  of  Aprile. 

John  Ver,  Erie  of  Oxynford,  Gret  Chambyrleyn  and 
Admirall  of  Ynglond,  Viscount  Bulbek,  and  Lord  Skalys,  to 
all  them  that  this  present  writyng  shall  see  or  here,  gretyng. 
And  for  asmuch  as  I  late  have  recevyd  the  Kyng  our  Sovereyn 
Lords  letters,  beryng  date  the  vj*^  day  of  this  monyth  of 
Aprile,  accordyng  to  a  copy  of  the  same,  signyd  with  myn 
hand,  wiche  my  ritht  trusty  servant,  John  Rowe,  Marchall  of 
my  Admyralite,  hath  for  to  showe  ; 

Know  ye  that  I,  the  seyd  Erie  and  Admirall,  have  assygned 
and  deputyd  my  seyd  servant  to  see  our  seyd  Sovereyn  Lordes 
lettyrs  pleynly  executyd  acordyng  to  the  tenure  of  the  same, 
and  by  thys  present  wrytyng  have  yevyn  to  hym  full  autoryte 
and  pouer  to  put  undyr  arest  all  such  doggeres  as  be  dysposyd 
to  mak  the  viage  towardes  Islond,  to  such  tyme  as  they  have 
fownd  surte  afor  me,  accordyng  to  owr  seyd  Sovereyn  Lordys 
comandment,  for  ther  demenyng  in  the  seyd  viagys. 

Yovyn  under  myn  signett  and  signee  manuell,  the  x*^  day 
of  Aprile  the  vj.  yere  of  the  reygne  of  our  seyd  Sovereyn  Lord 
Kyng  Hery  the  vij*^ 


137 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1047 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  ^SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  worshipfull  and  my  right  welbeloved 
Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght. 

I49i(?)  T)  IGHT  worshipfull  and  right  welbeloved,  I  comaunde  me 
JULY  3 1  rC  to  you.  And  where  as  1  late  receyved  your  wrytyng, 
^  ^  beryng  date  the  xxvj.  day  of  this  present  monthe,  by 
the  whiche  I  understand  that  one  Richard  Calle  toke  certeyne 
men  of  werre  robbyng  upon  the  coste  there  ;  and  in  somoche 
as  I  understand  that  they  be  under  the  obeissaunce  of  the 
Kyng  of  Denmarke,  I  woUe  and  desyre  you  that  ye  delyver 
theym  unto  the  seid  Richard  Calle  to  take  his  avauntage  of 
theym  as  prisoners,  seyng  my  dutee  reserved  in  every  thyng, 
as  my  trust  is  in  you.     And  Almyghty  God  kepe  you. 

Writen  at  my  castell  of  Hedyngham,  the  last  day  of  Jule. 

OXYNFORD. 

1048 

THE  OLD  AND  NEW  BAILIFFS  OF  YARMOUTH 
TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

To  oure  right  reverent  and  worshipfull  and  special  good 
maister,  Maister  Paston, 

H9^      I  ^  IGHT   reverent   and  worshipfull   sir,  and  oure  veray 

[sEPT.J     1^      lovyng  and  curteys  good  mayster,  we  recomaund  us 

'*■  on  to  you  in  as  feythefull  wyse  as  on  oure  part  aper- 

teynith  ;  and  hertely  we  thanke  you  for  your  labour  and  letter, 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  is  uncertain,  but,  as  Fenn 
suggests,  it  is  not  unlikely  to  have  been  written  in  the  year  1491,  when  it  may  be 
supposed  that  Danish  sailors  endeavoured  to  requite  the  injuries  inflicted  by  the 
English  in  Iceland,  of  which  mention  is  made  in  the  last  letter. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  '  Several  ordinances,'  says  Fenn,  *  respecting  cor- 
poration business,  made  by  the  men  of  Yarmouth,  through  Sir  John  Paston  and  Lord 
Oxford's  attention  to  them,  received  the  King's  assent  by  his  Attorney-General  in 
14.91.  It  was  for  their  activity  in  those  matters,  I  presume,  that  this  letter  of  thanks, 
etc.  was  addressed  to  Sir  John.'  The  time  of  year  appears  by  the  letter  itself  to  be 
about  Michaelmas. 

138 


HENRY  VII 

whiche  ye  sent  to  us  be  your  servaunt,  be  the  whiche  we  wer     149 1 
asserteynid  of  the  Kynges  pleasure,  and  to  acomplyshe  the    [sept.] 
same,  we  with  the  assistens  of  youre  maistirship  wyll  put  us  in 
oure  devoir. 

We  were  at  your  manoir  of  Castir  to  have  sen  your 
maistirshyp,  but  ye  were  departyd  as  well  from  Yermouth 
yistirday,  as  this  day  from  Castre.  We  wold  have  ben  joyous 
to  have  seen  your  maistirship,  if  our  fortune  so  had  ben. 

Sir,  we  be  enfourmyd  that  ore  old  special  good  Lord  of 
Oxford,  in  whom  we  founde  as  gret  favour  be  the  mediacion 
of  your  maystirship,  as  ever  we  had  of  any  creature,  as  we  have 
wryting  to  shewe,  in  recumpens  of  whiche  at  all  tymes  sethyn 
hise  lordshyp  hathe  had  our  preyeris  ;  and  now  we  wold  have 
waytid  upon  hise  lordshyp,  but  your  maystirship  knowith  well 
we  may  not  be  absent  on  Mychilmesse  Day  for  dyverse  con- 
sederacions.  Wherfore  we  beseke  your  good  maystirshyp,  ye 
lyke  of  your  jentilnesse,  to  recomaund  us  unto  our  seyd  good 
lord,  and  to  make  our  exkuse  to  hym,  and  to  do  hyse  lord- 
shyp [to  be]  presentyd  with  a  porpeyse,  whiche  we  send  yow 
be  the  brynger  of  thys  ;  and  if  we  had  any  othyr  deyntes  to 
do  hym  a  pleasure,  we  wold,  that  knowyth  God,  Whom  we 
beseke  of  Hyse  infenit  mercy  to  preserve  the  Kyng  our 
Soverayn  Lord,  and  oure  seyd  good  lord,  and  you,  and  all  the 
frutys  of  you  from  all  adversite. 

Youre  lover es  and  bedmen,  the  old 
BalifFes  of  Yermouth,  and  the  newe 
BalyiFes  that  now  shalbe. 


139 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1049 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  worshipfull  and  my  right  intierly  welbelovyd 
counceillor^  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght. 

About     I  ^  IGHT  worshipfull  and  right  intierly  welbelovyd  coun- 

I49i(?)    r^      ceillor,  I  comaund  me  to  you.     And  where  as  I  late 

OCT.  20    -■-  ^     have   receyved    your   writing,   wherby   I     .     .     .     . 

.     .     the  demeanyng  of  Richard  Barkeley  and  his  shipp  as 

other,  I  have  ta of  hym  to  be  redy 

at  all  tymes  to  answer  to  all  suche  thynges  as  can  be  1    .     .     . 

he  demeanyng.    I  woU  therfor  that  ye  sufFre 

hym,  his  men  and  shippys, d  as  for 

a  last  of  hering  and  an  half,  whiche  I  undirstond  by  hy     . 
.     .     .     of  his,  I  woll  that  ye  delyver  hit  to  the  countroller 

of  my  howshold.      A .     o  put  undyr 

suertie  all  suche  hering  so  takyn  or  revid  by  the  carveyll  of 

any  other.     And  God  kepe  you. 

Wretin  at  Melford,  the  xx.  day  of  Octobre. 

And  where  as  I  am  enformyd  that  ye  take  hym  nat  for 
my  servaunt,  and  so  he  ys  noysed  in  the  contrey  ther,  I  woll 
that  hit  be  knowin  that  I  take  hym  as  my  servaunt,  and  so 
will  do  as  long  as  I  know  no  cause  of  the  contrary. 

OXYNFORD. 

^  [From  a  MS.  in  the  Bodleian  Library.]  The  MS.  of  this  letter  is  mutilated,  but 
it  is  perfectly  intelligible,  as  it  is  the  first  of  three  relating  to  the  same  subject,  of 
which  Fenn  has  printed  the  second  in  his  fifth  volume.  The  date  of  the  matter 
referred  to  is,  however,  uncertain,  and  I  follow  the  example  of  Fenn  in  assigning  the 
correspondence  conjecturally  to  the  year  149 1,  in  which  we  have  other  letters  from  the 
Earl,  as  Admiral,  to  Sir  John,  as  his  Vice- Admiral. 


140 


HENRY  VII 

1050 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTONi 

^0  the  right  worshipfull  and  my  right  intierly  welbelovyd 
councellour^  Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  and  right  intierly  welbeloved  coun-  About 
cellour,  I  comaund  me  to  you.  And  where  as  I  149 1(?) 
undirstond,  by  your  writing  to  me  delyverid  by  this  oct. 
bcrar,  the  roborye  and  dispoyling  of  certayn  Corvers  of 
Holond  and  Selond,  done  by  the  shipp  callyd  the  Foole^  wherof 
Robert  Spenser  was  maister,  aswell  in  herryng,  vitayle,  and 
takelyng,  as  ye  be  enfourmyd  by  iij.  personnys  of  the  same 
shippe,  and  of  th'entent  and  disposicion  of  the  master  and 
feleshyp  of  the  same,  whiche  shewe,  as  ye  write,  that  Barkeley, 
aswell  with  that  shipp  as  with  a  prise  that  he  hathe  bought, 
late  takyn  of  the  Frenchemen,  were  disposid  and  determenyd 
to  do  myche  harme,  wherupon  ye  have  indevorid  you  to  breke 
the  same  ;  how  be  hit  that  the  seid  Barkeley  hath  be  late  with 
me,  and  found  suertie  in  a  C//.  to  answer  to  all  suche  demean- 
yng,  when  he  shall  be  callyd ;  and  therupon  I  wrote  to  you  to 
sufFre  hym,  his  men,  and  shippis  to  departe  at  libertie  ;  yet 
nevyrtheless,  concidering  your  large  writing,  I  can  nat  be 
content  in  my  mynde  to  suche  tyme  as  I  may  here  bothe  you 
and  Barkeley  to  geder  ;  willing  therf  [or  that  ye  do]  kepe  the 
shippys  and  goodes  in  suertie,  and  to  be  with  me  your  selfe 

well  may,  bringyng  with  you  suche 

iij.  personnys  as  have certaynte 

of  this  mater  ;  and  so  I  have  wretin  to  Barkeley 

se  to  answer  to  the  same.     And  God  kepe  you. 
Wretin ofOctobre. 

Also  yi  the  be  eny  of  the  Duchemen     ...... 

.     any  sute  for  ther  gode,  that  ye  then  cause  one  of     .     . 
to  shewe  and  clayme  ther  owne. 

OXYNFORD. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]     See  preliminary  note  to  last  letter. 

X4I 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1051 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  worshipfull  and  my  right  welbeloved  counceilour, 
Sir  John  Paston^  Knyght, 

About    T^  IGHT  worshipfull  and  right  welbeloved  counceilour,  I 
149^  (0   ■%      comaunde  me  to  you.     Certifieint  you  that  I  wolde 

OCT.  28  Am.  ]^2iYQ  be  right  glad  to  have  had  you,  the  iij.  persones 
that  enformed  you  of  Berkeley s  demenyng,  and  Berkeley  to- 
geder,  to  th'entent  that  I  myght  have  had  ripe  knowleche  of 
their  demenyng,  to  have  shewed  the  Kynge  at  my  comyng 
unto  His  Grace.  Nevertheles,  sith  I  understand  by  your  late 
wrytyng,  to  me  brought  by  the  seid  Berkeley  the  xxviij.  day 
of  this  present  monthe,  beryng  date  the  Monday  next  before 
Seynt  Symond  Day  and  Jude,  that  ther  is  nat  so  grete  defaute 
in  the  same  Berkeley  as  ye  by  your  former  writinges  to  me 
sent  wend  [thought']  ther  had  be,  and  that  the  defaute,  if  eny 
be,  is  in  one  Spenser,  maister  of  the  shippe  belongyng  to  the 
seid  Berkeley,  and  that  ye  thynke  also  that  such  suretee  as  I 
have  take  of  the  same  Berkeley  is  sufficient  inogh,  better  or 
more  than  nedeth  for  that  cause,  and  that  in  your  mynde  ye 
thynke  he  woU  be  of  gode  guydyng  and  demenyng  in  tyme 
comyng  ;  I  woU  and  desire  you  that  ye  delyver  hym  his 
shippes,  men,  and  goodes,  accordyng  to  my  first  wrytyng  to 
you  sent  in  that  behalve.     And  Almyghty  God  kepe  you. 

Writen  at  my  castell  of  Hedingham,  the  xxviij.  day  of 
Octobre.  Oxynford. 

^  [Douce  MS.  393,  f.  90.]     See  preliminary  note  to  Letter  1049. 


142 


HENRY  VII 

1052 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  my  righte  trusty  and  rtghte  welbelovyd  counceillours^ 
Sir  Rauff  Shelton  and  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyghtes, 

RIGHTE  trusty  and  righte  welbelovyd  counceillours,  I     Year 
comaunde  me  to  you.     And  fFor  as  moche  as  one  unccr- 
Thomas   Charlys  of  Norwiche   late   hathe  presentid     tain 
unto  me   a   bille  of  complaynte  agaynste  Symonde   White, 
gentylman,  dwellyng  in  Shotesham,  shewing  by  the  same  suche 
wrongis  as  the  saide  Symonde  hathe  done  and  daily  dothe  to 
the  saide  Thomas,  as  by  the  saide  bille,  whiche  I  sende  you 
with  this,  more  playnely  apperith ;  I  therfor  desire  and  pray 
you  that  ye  woll  do  calle  the  saide  parties  byfore  you,  and 
upon  due  examination  had  upon  the  mater  conteyned  in  the 
saide  bille,  ye  take  suche  direction  as  may  acorde  with  righte 
and  gode  consciens,  so  as  the  saide  Thomas  Charlis  heraftur 
have  no  cause  to  resorte  to  me  complaynyng.     And  Almightie 
God  kepe  you. 

Writen  at  my  castelle   of  Hedingham,  the  xv.  daye  of 
Septembre.  ,  Oxynford. 

1053 
WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

To  the  ryght  worchepfull  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght, 

AFTYR  all  dew  recomendacion,  lyke  it  yow  to  undyr-    1492 
stond  that  Syr  Herry  Heydon  schewyd  me  that  it  is    ^eb-  ^^ 
agreyd  be  Syr  Edmond  Bedyngfeld,  that  the  mater 
betwyx  hym  and  my  brodyr  Yelverton^  schalbe  comynd  at 

1  [Douce  MS.  393,  f.  89.]  This  letter  is  quite  uncertain  in  point  of  date,  except 
that  it  must  have  been  written  between  1487  and  1503.  We  place  it,  therefore,  for 
convenience,  after  other  letters  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  refers  to  Henry  vii/s  proposed  invasion 
of  France,  which,  after  long  preparation,  actually  took  place  in  October  1492. 

3  William  Yelverton,  the  grandson  of  the  Judge,  who  married  Anne  Paston,  the 
writer's  sister. 

H3 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1492  Norwyche,  and  there  a  dyreccion  to  be  takyn  in  the  same 
FEB.  18    mater,  mete  for  them  bo  the. 

Syr,  the  Kyng  sendythe  ordynaunce  dayly  to  the  see  syde, 
and  hys  tentes  and  alys  [^paviIions~\  be  a  makyng  faste,  and 
many  of  them  be  made  ;  and  there  is  also  grete  provysyon 
made  be  gentylmen  that  scholde  goo  wythe  Hys  Grace  or 
hors,  harnese,  tents,  halys,  gardyvyans  \_knapsacks2,  cartes,  and 
othyr  thynges  that  scholde  serve  them  for  thys  jurney  that  the 
Kynge  entendythe  to  take  on  hand,  soo  that  belykelyod  Hys 
Grace  wolbe  goyng  sone  upon  Ester.  And  so  I  entende,  aftyr 
that  I  here  heaftyr,  to  goo  to  Caleys  to  purvey  me  of  barneys, 
and  suche  thynges  as  I  schall  nede  besydes  hors,  undyr  that 
forme  that  my  costes  schalbe  payd  fore. 

Syr,  I  am  as  yet  no  bettyr  horsyd  than  I  was  whan  I  was 
wythe  yow,  nor  I  wote  not  where  to  have  none,  for  hors 
flesche  is  of  suche  a  price  here  that  my  puree  is  schante  [scarce'\ 
able  to  bye  one  hors  ;  wherfor  I  beseche  yow  to  herkyn 
[hearken]  for  some  in  yowre  contre.  Syr,  my  cosyn,  John 
Heydon,  tolde  me  that  the  Prior  of  Waburnes  horse  was  rially 
amendyd,  and  that  the  Abott  of  Seynt  Benetes  schewed  hym 
there  was  a  bay  hors  of  a  persons  nyght  onto  Seynt  Benetis, 
and  that  the  abot  wolde  gete  hym  for  my  cosyn  Heydon  at  a 
resonable  price.  Syr,  my  cosyn,  John  Heydon,  woll  geve  me 
hys  entrest  in  that  hors,  if  the  abot  have  bowght  hym,  and  so  ye 
may  lete  the  abot  have  knowlege ;  and  if  he  have  not  bowght  hym, 
I  beseche  yow  sende  to  see  hym,  for  I  wote  not  how  to  do  with- 
owt  yowre  helpe  aswell  in  horsyng  of  me  as  in  other  thynges. 

At  the  makyng  of  thys  lettyr,  I  cannot  acerteyn  yow  what 
person  it  is  that  owythe  thys  hors.  If  I  can  know,  I  wolle 
send  yow  worde  in  a  bylle  I  sende  to  Thomas  JuUys  be  the 
berer  herof. 

Syr,  as  towardes  my  jurney  to  Caleys,  the  whyche  I  entende 
[intended]  to  have  tane  at  my  laste  beyng  with  yow,  it  was  so, 
I  was  dysapoyntyd  of  Thomas  Dey  and  an  other  man  I  scholde 
have  had  be  hys  menys,  as  ye  have  had  knowlege  of  or  now  ; 
and  also  I  had  went  [thought]  to  have  had  folkys  a  mette  with 
me  at  Hedyngham,  whyche  ded  nott.     My  lorde,^  seyng  me 

*  The  Earl  of  Oxford. 
144 


HENRY  VII 

dysesyd,  and  also  none  otherwyse  purveyd,  wyllyd  me  in  ony  149  2 
wyse  to  tary  on  tyl  hys  comyng  to  London,  and  sent  myn  ^e^*  '^ 
excuse  to  my  Lorde  Dawbeney  undyr  thys  forme  how  that  I 
was  sore  disesyd  ;  notwythestondyng  I  was  welewyllyd  to  have 
come  to  fulfyll  my  promesse,  but  he  cowde  not  sofyr  me, 
seyng  me  soo  dysesyd  ;  and  so  my  Lord  Dawbeney  was  sory 
of  my  dysese  and  content  that  I  taryd. 

Syr,  I  beseche  yow  to  holde  me  excusyd  for  kepyng  of 
Thomas  Lynsted,  yowr  servaunt,  and  hym  bothe.  It  is  soo 
that  he  and  I  bothe  have  ben  in  hand  with  my  unkyll  ^  for  hys 
mater,  and  yett  wee  have  hym  at  noo  good  poynt ;  but  I 
troste  we  schall  have.  Syr,  if  I  take  thys  jurney  to  Caleys,  I 
moste  beseche  yow  to  forbere  hym  lenger,  and  if  I  goo  not  to 
Caleys,  thow  I  be  lothe  to  forbere  hym,  yet  I  schall  brynge 
hym  with  me  schortly  in  to  Norfolke,  ye  to  have  hym,  if  ye 
lyste,  with  the  grace  of  God,  Who  have  yow  in  kepyng. 

Wretyn  at  London,  the  xviij.  day  of  February,  with  the 
hande  of  yowre  pore  brodyr, 

Wylliam  Paston. 


1054 
ROGER  L'ESTRANGE  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  2 

^0  the  ryih  worchypfull  Syr  John  Paston^  Knyth^ 
be  thys  delyveryd, 

MASTYR  PASTON,  I  recomawnd  me  to  yow.  Syr,  april  16 
so  it  is  that  I  am  not  yet  purveyd  of  men  to  my 
nowmbyr  of  archers,  suych  as  chold  go  hovyr  see 
with  me ;  wer  for,  syr,  I  be  ceche  yow  that  it  wold  plese  yow 
at  thys  tyme  to  do  so  mych  for  me  as  to  a  purveyd  me  of  ij. 
or  iij.,  such  as  ye  thynk  chold  be  for  me. 

Syr^  I    undyrstond  Syr  Tery  Robstertt  lyth   but  lyttyll 

1  William  Paston  the  elder. 

'  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  probably  of  the  year  1492,  when  the 
King  was  going  over  to  France.  But  there  are  other  occasions,  both  earlier  and 
later,  on  one  of  which  it  might  have  been  written. 

VOL.  VI. K  145 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1492  from  yow,  were,  as  I  trow,  he  myde  help  me  of  j.  by  yowyr 
APRIL  16  menys,  and  as  for  ther  wages,  they  xall  have  the  Kynges  wages 
and  some  what  elles,  so  that  I  trost  that  they  xall  be  plessyd. 
Syr,  I  be  cech  yow  to  tak  the  peyne  for  me  at  thys  tyme,  and 
I  xall  do  yow  that  servys  that  lyth  in  me,  by  the  grace  of 
Jesu,  Ho  preserve  you. 

On  Monday  next  aftyr  Palme  Sonday,  by  yowyr  howne  to 
hys  pouyr,  Roger  Lestraunge. 

Syr,  I  be  sech  yow  that  thys  byll  may  recomawnd  me  on 
to  my  lady,^  and  I  trost  I  xall  a  wayt  on  you  sone  on  Estyr. 


1055 
WILLIAM  BARNARD  TO   WILLIAM  PASTON  2 

To  his  right  wurchipfull  mastery  William  Paston,  and  Mr,  Deryk 
dwellyng  with  my  Lord  of  Oxinford^  this  lettir  be  delyvered 
in  hast. 

About  TT)  IGHT  wurchipfull  Maister  William  Paston,  with  myn 
1492  r\  good  Lord  of  Oxinford,  and  myn  welbelovyd  Mr. 
^  ^  Deryk,  I  recomaund  me  on  to  you.  And  it  is  soo 
that  I  kepe  a  prisoner  of  my  lordis  to  answer  to  William 
Greve,  maryner  of  Gret  Yermouth,  the  wiche  he  brought 
hym  to  me  by  my  lordis  auctorite  of  a  warand  from  Bell 
Key;  and  the  seid  William  Greve  chargid  me  with  his 
prisoner,  named  Phillyp  Barbour,  and  chargid  me  with  hym 
for  x/;?.,  and  so  I  kepe  hym,  and  have  kept  hym  this  ij.  yer 
and  an  half.  And  I  have  aftyr  and  many  tymes  askyd  and 
requyred  of  the  seid  William  Greve  of  mony  for  his  bord,  for 
he  promysid  and  appoynted  with  me  for  every  weke  ijj.,  and  I 
to  take  charge  for  to  answer  hym  of  hys  prysoner  aforseid  ; 

1  Probably  Margaret,  first  wife  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  date  of  this  letter  Is  very  uncertain,  but  it  is 
probably  about  the  year  1492,  as  William  Paston  does  not  seem  to  have  been  in  the 
Earl  of  Oxford's  service  many  years  before  or  after  that  date. 

146 


HENRY  VII 

and  so  I  have  be  chargith  with  hym  ij.  yeris  and  an  half  to  my  About 
gret  cost  and  charge,  and  nowh  the  seid  William  Greve  in-  1492 
tendith  to  pay  me  noon  mony,  butt  he  is  a  bowght  to  remeve 
the  prysoner  by  a  pryvy  seall  to  abarre  me  from  myn  mony. 
Wher  I  am  enformyd  that  noon  prysoner  of  my  lordis  shuld 
nat  be  remevyd  out  of  my  lordis  pryson,  nor  crafFtid  so  out 
of  pryson  till  he  had  answerd  ther  to  seche  causes  as  he  lyth 
fore,  and  specially  for  alle  suche  costis  and  chargis  as  his  kepar 
is  charged  for  hym  for  his  costis  of  exspensis ;  and  that  doon, 
I  woU  be  redy  to  delyver  hym  to  the  seid  William  Greve  [to] 
pay  me  for  his  costis  as  it  shalbe  demyd  with  reason.  Be- 
sechynd  and  prayeng  you  bothen  too  to  be  so  good  ma[istris 
unto]  me  that  ye  woll  shewe  this  mater  on  to  my  lord,  and 
to  knowe  my  lordis  meend  whedyr  it  shall  please  hym  that  I 
shall  delyver  hym  by  a  pryvy  seall  in  this  causis  or  nay,  for 
the  bryngar  herof  is  the  prysoner.  And  if  it  be  my  lordis 
mend  that  the  prysoner  shall  appere  to  that  pryvy  seall,  that 
it  woll  plese  my  lord  to  be  so  good  and  gracyous  lord  on 
to  the  prysoner  to  send  hym  to  his  councell  to  London,  to 
tendyr  this  mater  for  the  pore  prysoner,  and  to  consydre  the 
gret  losse  that  the  seid  William  Greve  intendith  to  putto  his 
servaunt  William  Barnard,  marchall  and  kepar  of  [my]  lordis 
gayle  in  Yermouth,  and  servaunt  [to?]  Robert  Crowmer, 
depute  for  my  lord  in  the  partyes  of  NoriFolk  and  Suffolk. 
I  shuld  a  browte  up  my  silf,  but  we  be  now  in  gret  besynes 
in  kepyng  of  my  lordis  honorabyll  courtis  in  Norffolk  and 
Suffolk. 

Wretyn  the  last  day  of  Aprill. 

By  your,  William  Barnard, 

that  I  can  or  may. 


147 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


1056     ^ 

EDMUND  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

I'd  the  ryght  wurshupfull  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght^ 
be  this  delyvered. 

Before  I  '\  YGHT  wurshypfull  Sir,  I  recomawnd  me  to  zow.  As 
1493  r^  zesterday  I  was  with  my  cosyn  Clere  ;^  he  lythe  at 
Borow,  and  my  mastres  hys  wyveffe/  be  cause  the 
plage  reygnyth  at  Ormysby.  And  so  of  hys  own  mocyon  he 
mevyd  to  me  of  the  maryage  of  my  nevew  zour  soon,  and  as 
glad  foolkes  woold  be  to  bargayn  as  ever  ze  wyste,  and  soo 
hathe  shewyd  me  that  ze  shuld  have  as  myche  as  Sir  E. 
Bedyngfelld,  whyche  was  v.  C.  marke.  Moore  over  he 
shewyd  that  he  woold  depart  with  it  to  Sir  Roger  T.*  or  to 
Harry  Colett,  whyche  he  shewyd  ze  woold  not  of,  but  to 
have  the  mony  at  zour  dysposyssyon  ;  and  me  semys  be  hys 
report  that  he  knowyth  well  that  yf  ze  delle  with  Sir  H.  H.,^ 
he  wyll  be  in  a  suerte  that  the  mony  that  he  shuld  depart  with 
shuld  goo  to  the  redemyng  of  zour  landes,  and  other  zowr 
dawngeres.  More  over  he  shewyd  me  that  the  mony  whyche 
ze  skyftyd  of  H.  Colett  was  th[oug]ht  be  Sir  Harry  H.  that 
Sir  R.  Townesend  shuld  have  ben  contentte  with  it,  whyche  is 
knowyn  the  contrary,  and  causyd  hym  to  geve  delay  in  that  be 
halfFe  to  zow.  I  know  well  this  jantylman  berythe  zow  as 
good  mynde  as  any  man  alyve,  my  mastres  hys  mother,'^  and 
allso  my  mastres  hys  wy ve  in  lyeke  wyesse ;  and  me  semys  he 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  cannot  be  later  than  the  year  1493,  as 
Sir  Roger  Townsend  died  on  the  9th  December  in  that  year  (Inq.  p.  m.  10  Hen.  vii., 
No.  1 70).  Moreover  the  will  of  Elizabeth  Clere  of  Ormesby  was  proved,  according 
to  Blomefield,  on  the  6th  March  1492-3.  But  as  Sir  John  Paston's  eldest  son  was 
only  bom  in  1478,  the  date  is  not  likely  to  be  many  years  earlier. 

2  Sir  Robert  Clere  of  Ormesby. 

3  Probably  his  first  wife  Anne,  daughter  of  Sir  William  Hopton.  His  second  was 
Alice,  daughter  of  Sir  William  Boleyn. 

^  Townsend.  °  Sir  Henry  Heydon. 

7  Elizabeth,  widow  of  Robert  Clere  of  Ormesby,  the  father  of  Sir  Robert.  She 
was  the  daughter  of  Thomas  Owydale,  Uvedale,  or  Dovedale,  of  Tacolneston,  in 
Norfolk. 

148 


HENRY    VII 

makys  not  the  dowghttes  to  delyver  zow  hys  mony  that  other  Before 
men  do  of  the  delyverye  of  thers.  Foor  trowthe,  he  shewythe  1493 
me  hys  mynde,  whyche  is  thus  :  yf  ze  wyll  putt  lande  in  fefFe- 
ment  for  zeres,  to  the  full  contentacyon  of  Townesend,  Colett, 
and  of  my  uncle,  whyche  he  and  all  men  thynke  ze  muste  be 
charged  to,  or  ever  ze  goo  thorow,  and  that  zour  next  frendes 
have  the  receyte  of  it  tyll  it  be  full  contente  and  payed,  thus, 
or  suche  a  suer  weye  to  be  had  for  the  well  of  all  parteys,  I 
darre  say  he  is  not  alyve  wyll  indevour  hym  with  better  wyll 
to  deele  with  zow,  and,  as  my  mynde  servys  me,  streytte  hym- 
syljfFe,  as  it  may  be  booryn,  be  syde  my  mastes  hys  modyrs  v. 
C.  My  mastres  hys  wyffe,  on  my  feythe  I  darr  say,  the  moste 
harty  body  to  zow  wordes  in  this  be  halfFe  that  is  alyve,  and 
the  fayneeste  body  woold  be  to  have  it  accomplyshyd. 

Syr,  I  thenke  ze  be  to  wardes  London,  and  well  I  woot 
zowre  mynde  is  to  ease  zour  sylffe  as  hastely  as  ze  may  ;  I 
pray  God  ze  do  to  zour  honur,  and  to  zour  moste  well  to 
gederys. 

Marchandes  or  new  jantylmen  I  deme  wyll  proferr  large  ; 
noon  other  dyspreysed,  ze  know  the  contynewance  of  this 
man,  and  how  he  is  alyed.  Well  I  woott  yf  ze  depart  to 
London,  ze  shall  have  proferes  large  ;  yf  zour  jornay  be  not 
but  to  ease  yow  in  that  be  halfe,  be  my  poor  avyce  slake  for  iij. 
or  iiij.  days,  for  ever  me  semys  I  shuld  not  have  ben  brokyn 
to  so  largely,  but  that  they  entende  it  hastely  to  say  to  zow. 
Sythe  I  was  ther,  I  undyr  stande  yf  it  had  not  happyd  me  to 
have  seyne  them  as  zester  day,  she  wold  this  day  have  made 
her  cowntenance  to  have  seyn  her  nes,  Bothas  (?)  dowter, 
wyche  is  at  Pallynges  for  fere  of  the  plage,  and  have  comyn 
seyne  [come  and  seen]  my  wyffve,  and  specyally  to  have  de  syrid 
us  to  meve  zow  towardes  them,  and  in  trowthe  so  she  basse. 

I  pray  God  ze  do  as  well  to  zour  honur  as  I  woold  do  my 
sylfe.  Yf  ze  wyll  tery  thys  lytell  season  be  foor  rehersyd,  yf 
ze  lyste,  I  woott  well  ze  may  have  the  mater  moor  largely 
comyned  ;  and  yf  ze  tary  tyll  Monday,  I  wyll  awayte  on  zow 
to  Hynengham,  with  Godes  grace.  Who  ever  preserve  zow  and 
zours. 

Your,  E.  Paston. 

149 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1057 

SIR  HENRY  HEYDON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  myn  ryght  worchypfull  cosyn^  Sir  John  Paston^  knyght, 

1488-  ^^OSYN  Paston,  I  recommend  me  to  you  and  wn  to 
1492  C  i  niyne  good  ladie  your  wiff.  As  for  your  mater 
MARCH  4  ^-^  betwyx  you  and  your  wncle,^  I  have  shewid  it  soe  to 
my  ladie  of  NorfFolk  and  to  hym,  that  it  is  agreed  yee  to 
entre  in  to  Marlyngford  and  all  other  maners  in  debate  in 
your  name,  and  to  kepe  your  courtes,  sell  your  wodis,  and  to 
doo  therwith  as  with  your  own.  Wherupon  I  avise  you,  as 
soone  as  ye  may,  send  som  discrete  man  to  kepe  your  courtis 
and  to  lette  your  fermys  and  selle  your  wodis  to  your  most 
avayll.  Your  presens  theer  shall  bee  costly,  and  what  is  bee 
heende  in  the  fermourz  or  tenauntz  handez  sethyn  the  reken- 
yng  last  be  fFor  myne  ladiez  servauntz  and  yourz,  that  thei 
bee  warnyd  kurtesly  to  paie  it  by  a  day,  except  in  ony  wise  I 
avyse  you  nat  to  make  ony  thretis  to  ony  fermour  or  tenaunt, 
for  ony  dealing  aiFor  this  tyme,  but  to  gett  in  fayernesse  till  I 
speke  with  you ;  and  in  ony  wyse  that  yee  nor  ony  your  ser- 
vauntz have  noon  wordis  in  this  mater,  but  that  it  is  agreed 
bee  myne  ladie  you  to  have  your  peasebill  possession.  And 
as  for  Huntingffeldis,  as  yee  have  beffore  ocupyed,  ocupie 
still  without  noyse.  I  pray  you  folowe  myne  avise  in  this. 
I  have  hadde  laubour,  I  trust  thorowe  your  cause  it  shall  nat 
be  in  vain  lahoraverunt^  and  suffyr  this  bill  hyddyr  too  to 
speke  to  your  sellf  in  privite,  and  to  noon  other.  How  yee 
and  myne  ladie,  and  in  what  sylk  or  clooth  yee  will  have 
these  tweyn  yong  innocentis  ^  maried  inne,  iff  it  shuld  bee  pur- 

1  [Add.  MS.  33,597,  f.  9.]  This  letter  must  be  addressed  to  the  later  Sir  John. 
The  manor  of  Marlingford  belonged  to  Agnes  Paston,  who  died  about  the  same  time 
as  her  grandson  the  first  Sir  John,  and  her  right  accordingly  descended  to  his  brother 
John,  who  was  knighted  at  the  battle  of  Stoke,  i6th  June  1487.  His  claim  was  dis- 
puted for  a  time  by  his  uncle,  but  some  arrangement  was  come  to,  apparently  before 
the  year  1493.     {See  No.  1056.) 

2  William  Paston,  son  of  the  judge. 

3  Probably  Sir  John  Paston's  eldest  son  and  a  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Clere.  {See 
No.  1056.) 

150 


HENRY  VII 

veyed  at  London  to  send  me  word,  or  ellys  at  Norwich,  as  it   1488- 
shall  please  you  and  myne  ladie,  ther  after  I  shall  applie  me.     1492 
For  it  must  bee  ordyrd  be  you  in  the  yong  husbondis  name,  march  4 
Your  penauns  off  your  wncles  mater  shall  yee  knowe  whan  I 
kom  hoome.     Ther  is  non  other  meane  but  to  sell  your  wodis 
and  tymber  in  all  your  manors  to  your  most  avayll,  except 
theere  as  it  kan  nat  bee  forborn  for  diverse  causys.     And  ifF 
you  list  to  command  mee  ony  thyng  in  these  partyez,  send  me 
word  be  myn  servaunt,  berer  heerof. 

Wretin  the  iiij*^  day  off  March. — Your  own  to  his  powr, 

H.  Heydon. 


1058 
SIR  T.  LYNG  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  my  rigth  wurchypful  master^  Sir  John  Paston,  Knyth,  in  hast. 


M 


EMORANDUM,  that  thes  be  the  namys  that  war    i494 
mad   Knytes   of  the   Bath,   the   Thwrsday  be   for      ^°^* 
Alhalow  Day. 


Fyrst,  My  Lord  Herry,  Duke  of  Yorke. 

My  Lord  Haryngton,  Lord  Marcas  sun.^ 

My  Lord  Clyfford. 

My  Lord  Fyvaren. 

My  Lord  Dakyr  of  the  Sowth. 

My  Lord  Strange.     Lord  Stranges  sun. 

Sir  John  Arundell  of  the  West. 

Sir  Water  Grefyth  of  Lonkaschyre. 

Sir  Jarveys  a  ClyfFton  of  Yorkechyre. 

Sir  Roberd  Harcorth  of  the  West. 

Sir  Edmund  Trayford. 

Sir  Herry  Marney  of  Esexe. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  gives  the  list  of  the  Knights  of  the  Bath 
made  on  the  occasion  of  Henry  the  King's  second  son  being  created.  Duke  of  York 
in  1494. 

*  Thomas  Grey,  son  of  Thomas  Grey,  first  Marquis  of  Dorset,  who  succeeded  his 
father  in  1501. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1494  Sir  Roger  Newborow. 

NOV.  Sir  RafF  Rither  of  Yorkechyre. 

Sir  Thomas  Bawd  of  Harforth  chyre. 

Sir  John  Speke. 

Sir  Houmfrey  Fulford. 

Sir  Roberd  Lytton. 

Sir  Pers  Egecome. 

Sir  Roberd  Clere. 

Sir  Thomas  Fayrefaxe. 

Sir  Richard  Knythley. 

Sir  Wyllem  Cheke. 

Also  Master  Robert  Southwell  is  Hey  Schreve  of  Nor- 
ffolke. 

Memorandum,  that  saforn  is  at  xvjj.  j//.  the  lowest  price. 

Also,  the  Kynge  and  the  Qwene  went  crowned  on  Halow- 
messe  Day  last ;  and  my  Lord  of  Schrewsbery  bare  my  Lord 
Harry,  Duke  of  Yorke,  in  hys  harmys  ;  and  x.  byschopis,  with 
myters  on  ther  hedes,  goyng  be  for  the  Kyng  that  day  rownd 
a  bowt  Westmynster  Hawle,  with  many  odyr  gret  astates. 

Sir,  ther  hath  be  so  gret  cownsell  for  the  Kynges  maters, 
that  my  Lord  Chawnsler  kept  not  the  Ster  Chawmber   thys 
viij.  days,  but  one  day  at  London,  on  Sent  Lenardes  Day. 
Be  yowre  pore  prest  and  servaund. 

Sir  T.  Lyng. 

The  lowest  pryse  of  saforn  is  xvjj. 

Item,  the  Knytes  of  the  Bath. 

Item,  the  Knytes  of  the  Schyre. 

Item,  of  recordes  a  yenst  me. 

Syr,  ther  hath  record  a  yenst  me,  Syr  John  Seyve,  Vecry  of 
Barton,  John  Anond,  Richard  Elwyn  of  Wytton,  John  Bowlond 
of  Totyngton,  sumnor,  whech  arne  all  forsworyn  on  the 
Crwsifyxe  a  yenst  me. 


152 


HENRY  VII 


1059 

THE  CORPORATION  OF  YARMOUTH  TO 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

.  'To  our  right  honorable  and  especyall  good  maister^  Ser 
John  Paston,  Knyght^  this  letter  be  delyvered  in  hast, 

RIGHT  wurchipfull  ser,  we  recomaund  us  onto  your  good  1495 
maistership,  sertefyeng  you  that  Robart  Albon  of  J^^^  11 
Ycrmouth  with  many  more  of  our  neybors,  this  Sater- 
day  arn  comen  hom  from  Caunterbury.  And  Robart  Albon 
hath  spokyn  with  the  English  captayns  of  the  Kynges  rebellys 
ther,  part  of  theym  that  arn  takyn ;  and  Robart  Albon  and  his 
company  seith  that  ther  wer  takyn  and  slayn  to  the  noumbre  of 
vij'^'^-j  wherof  were  v.  captayns,  iiij.  of  them  he  named,  oon 
Mounford,  Whyght,  Belt,  and  Corbett :  he  coude  nott  telle 
the  fyiFt  capteyns  name.  And  they  told  hym  that  they  have 
apoynted  to  have  a  town  of  strength,  for  they  wold  an  had 
Sandwich,  and  the  countre  had  nott  a  resistid  them.  And  so 
Belt  seid  on  to  Robart  Albon  he  wyst  weell  that  he  was  but  a 
deed  man,  and  for  asmoche  as  he  wist  that  he  was  of  Yermouth, 
he  shewid  hym  that  they  woll  have  Yermouth  or  they  xali  dye 
for  it,  as  Robart  seyth  to  us. 

And  this  is  a  mater  of  trewth,  and  therfore  we  desyre  and 
pray  your  good  maistership,  that  we  may  have  your  myghty 
help  of  ayde  and^socowr,  and  that  it  woll  please  you  to  comon 
with  Maister  Mayer  of  Norwiche,  to  meve  hym  of  hys  sokour, 
but  in  especyall  that  we  may  have  your  maistership  amongs  us, 
with  suche  strength  of  your  good  councell,  as  your  maistership 
shall  thynk  most  best  for  the  Kynges  pleasur,  and  for  the 
sewyrtye  of  us  alle ;  for  we  putt  us  in  devyr  to  furnysh  the 
town  with  all  that  we  can  doo,  for  we  know  noon  oder  but 
that  they  may  be  here  by  possybylyte  this  nyght  or  to  morow 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  refers  to  the  attempt  of  Perkin  Warbcck 
at  Deal,  where  a  number  of  his  followers  landed  on  the  3rd  July  1495,  and  were  all 
either  killed  or  taken  prisoners  by  the  people. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1495    ^tt  nyght  at  the  ferdest.     No  more  to  you,  but  Jesu  preserve 

JULY  I  I     you. 

Wretyn  at  Yermouth,  in  hast,  this  Saterday,  the  xj.  day  of 

July- 

Be  your  owyn,  the  BalyfFes  of  Yer- 
mouth, with  our  Brethern  and 
Comons  of  the  same  Town. 


1060 

ROBERT  CROWMER  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

'To  my  right  especyall  and  syngler  good  maister^  Ser 
John  Paston,  Knyght^  this  letter  be  delyvered, 

JULY  12  "Y  Tt  TURCHIPFUL  ser,  I  recomaund  me  on  to  you. 
Y  V^  Maister  BalyfFes,  with  alle  myn  Maisteris  of  the 
town  of  Yermouth,  thankith  you  hartilly,  and 
trustyng  feythfully  of  your  ayde  and  comford  at  neede  ;  and 
if  any  suche  cause  happith  with  us,  they  woU  feythfully  send 
you  word  in  all  the  hast  possyble,  up  on  the  syght  of  the 
shippis. 

Ser,  ferdermor,  ther  is  a  ship  of  our  town  come  hom  from 
Seint  John  of  Amyas,  and  he  seyth  that  on  Seint  Thomas  Day  * 
ther  came  to  Seint  Wallrens,^  in  Normandie,  an  hoye  of  Dor- 
deryght,  with  viij.  horsis,  with  many  saddilles  and  brydilles  ; 
ther  in  wer  viij.  or  ix.  Englysh  men,  the  wiche  toke  the 
shippes  boot,  and  went  on  lond  at  Staplis,*  and  arn  renne  a 
wey  up  in  to  the  cuntre.  And  the  Admiralles  Depewty 
sesonyd  the  ship  and  hors,  and  all  that  they  found  ther  in, 
to  the  Kyng  our  soverayn  Lordes  behoofF;  and  the  Duche 
men  were  leyde  in  pryson.     This  is  a  mater  of  trowth,  for 


1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  refers  to  the  dispersion  of  Warbeck's 
fleet  after  the  attempt  at  Deal.  It  would  appear,  as  Fenn  remarks,  that  on  receipt  of 
the  preceding  letter  Sir  John  had  promised  aid  to  the  town  of  Yarmouth,  for  which 
promise  they  here  return  thanks.  The  handwriting  of  this  letter  is  the  same  as  that 
of  the  last. 

2  The  Feast  of  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  Apostle,  3rd  July. 

3  S^.  St.  Vallery  ?  *  Etaples. 

154 


HENRY  VII 

William  Carre  of  our  town,  maryner,  and  oder  of  our  town,  1495 
see  this  doon  in  deed.  And  as  for  the  shippes  with  the  July  12 
Kynges  rebellars,  they  be  furth  out  of  Cambyr  ^  westwards ; 
whyder  they  be,  thei  can  not  sey,  but  the  Duche  men  seid  to 
William  Carre  that  they  trustid  on  one  man  shuld  help  them 
with  many  men.  Thes  is  suche  tydynges  as  the  Amyas  men 
brout  hom. 

Ser,  if  it  woll  please  your  maistership  that  ye  myght  have 
leyser,  I  desyre  and  pray  you  to  come  sporte  you,  and  to  see 
how  weell  we  have  appareld  and  furnyshid  our  town,  I  wold 
be  right  gladd,  and  I  trust  to  Almyghty  God  that  it  wold 
please  your  maistership  right  weell,  and  with  your  betyr 
advyce  we  woll  doo  more  to  our  power,  that  knowith  God, 
the  wiche  Lord  preserve  you. 

Wretyn  at  Yermouth,  on  Relyk  Sonday.^ 

By  your  servaunt,  Robart  Crowmer. 

I061 

ELIZABETH,  DUCHESS  OF  NORFOLK,  TO 
SIR  WILLIAM  KNIVET  AND  OTHERS ^ 

To  my  ryght  enlyerly  and  welbelovid  frendes^  Sire  William 
Knevette,  Sire  John  Paston,  Sire  Robert  Clere^  Knyghtes,  the 
Kynges  Attorney^  Phelippe  Calthorpe^  Richard  Suthwell^ 
Squyers^  and  to  yche  of  theym. 

Elizabeth,  Duchesse  of  Norffolk. 

RIGHT  entyerly  welbelovyd  frendys,  I  comaunde  me  to  sept.  14 
you.     And  for  as  moche  as  I  understande  that  Sire 
Harry  Grey,  that  is  the  verry  owner  and  possessioner 
of  the  maner  of  Ketryngham,  is  nowe  in  gret  age,  and  as  it  is 

1  The  point  called  the  Camber,  near  Rye. 

2  Relic  Sunday  is  the  third  Sunday  after  Midsummer  Day,  and  fell  on  the  12th 
July  in  1495. 

3  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  writer  of  this  letter  was  the  widow  of  John 
Mowbray,  the  last  Duke  of  Norfolk  of  that  name,  who  died  in  1475.  She  survived 
her  husband  many  years,  and  Fenn  says,  though  I  know  not  on  what  authority,  that 
she  was  alive  in  1496.     Sir  Harry  Grey,  it  appears,  made  his  will  on  the  28th  Sep- 

'55 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1495  seide,  of  right  seekely  disposicion,  and  that  after  his  deceasse 
SEPT.  14  the  right  and  title  therof  shall  of  right  belonge  to  my  right 
welbelovid  servaunt  Thomas  Martyn,  and  his  nevewe  and 
heyre  of  blood,  and  his  eyre  therof  by  reason  of  entaylys  : — 
What  the  seid  Sire  Harry  entendith  to  do  therin,  I  knowe 
not,  but  it  rennyth  in  reporte,  that  he  is  in  purpose  to  dis- 
herite  the  seid  Thomas  Martyn  therof,  contrary  to  all  right 
and  good  conscience.  In  eschuenge  wherof,  I  desire  and  pray 
you  as  hertely  as  I  can,  that  it  wuU  leeke  you  to  be  so  good 
maistyrs  to  the  seid  Thomas  as,  by  your  wisdams  and  dis- 
crecion,  the  seid  Sire  Harry,  by  you  or  some  of  you,  may  be 
moved  of  conscience  and  of  kyndenesse  to  his  blood  to  have 
regard  to  the  seid  right,  and  not  to  do  eny  thyng  that  shuld 
be  disheryson  to  his  seid  nevewe,  and  to  have  the  more  tender 
consideracion  to  your  mocion,  for  that  the  seid  Thomas  is  to 
dyverse  of  you  of  kynne  and  aliaunce,  and  to  many  other 
gentilmen  within  the  shere  in  leeke  cas.  And  for  the  con- 
sideracion that  I  have,  that  the  seid  Sire  Harry  and  Thomas 
his  nevewe,  were  of  my  lordes  nere  blode,  whoes  soule  Jesu 
pardon  and  assoyle,  it  were  to  gret  a  pete  to  see  hym  by  dis- 
heryson to  falle  to  penury  and  poverte,  wher  by  your  good 
exortacion  in  consideracion  of  the  premissis,  and  mo  odir  by 
your  wisdamys  to  be  remembred,  in  the  lif  of  the  seid  Sire 
Harry  suche  inconveniences  may  be  better  remadyed  ;  wherin 
ye  shall  not  only  do  an  almas  dede,  and  a  gret  pleasir  to  God, 
but  also  to  me  for  that  blodes  sake  a  singuler  pleasir,  and 
cause  me  heraftir  therather  to  considir  thynge  that  shall  con- 
cerne  your  resonabill  pleasir,  with  Goddes  grace.  Who  ever 
kepe  you. 

At  Erie  Soham,  this  xiiij"®  day  of  Septembyr. 

tember  1492  (Blomefield,  v.  93),  and  one  might  imagine  this  letter  was  written  in  the 
same  month  and  year.  The  inquisition  upon  his  death,  however,  was  only  taken  on 
the  26th  October,  12  Hen.  vii.  (1496),  and  it  does  not  state  the  day  on  which  he 
died.  The  jurors  found  Thomas  Martyn,  who  was  then  thirty  years  old  and  over,  to  be 
his  kinsman  and  next  heir,  but  that  Ketteringham  Hall  was  devised  to  the  use  of  his 
wife  Jane  and  of  others  after  her  death.  It  is  certain,  moreover,  that  this  letter  could 
not  have  been  written  before  the  year  1495  when  Sir  Robert  Clere  was  knighted  j  and 
that  is  probably  the  very  year,  as  Sir  Harry  Grey  was  dead  at  least  in  October  1496, 
and  most  likely  a  month  or  two  earlier. 

156 


HENRY  VII 
1062 

WILLIAM  PASTON  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 
To  my  most  special  good  father^  Ser  John  Paston^  Knyght. 

AFTER  most  humbyl  wyse  of  recommandacion,  in  my  About 
most  lovyngly  wyse,  I   beseche  yow  of  your  dayly  i49^(?) 
blyssyng,  showyng  yow  that  I  am  at  Ser  John  Fortescu 
place,  be  cause  they  swet  so  sor  at  Cambryge.     Also  I  shew 
yow  that  Mr.  Thomas  Clark  ys  desessyd,  hows  sowle  God 
have  mercy. 

Also,  1  beseche  yow  that  ye  wol  se  a  remedy  for  the  comun 
of  Snaylwel,  for  the  Bayly  of  Snaylwel  and  on  of  your  fermors 
war  with  my  tutor  and  me,  and  sheuyd  me  that  all  the  comun 
shuld  a  be  takyn  away  butt  for  Mr.  Cotton  and  the  Vecur  of 
Fordan,^  hom  I  beseche  yow  to  thank.  Fro  Pamsborow.^ 
Be  your  most  humbyl  servaunt, 

William  Paston. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  Fenn  says,  I  cannot  tell  on  what  grounds,  that  this 
letter  must  have  been  written  between  1491  and  1495.  At  the  earlier  of  these  dates 
the  writer  could  not  have  been  more  than  twelve  years  old,  but  as  lads  were  sent  to 
the  university  at  a  much  earlier  age  in  those  days  than  in  ours,  even  the  earlier  of 
these  dates  is  not  impossible.  The  style  of  the  letter,  however,  is  not  boyish,  and  I 
should  have  been  inclined  to  place  it  a  year  or  two  later  even  than  Fenn's  latest  date, 
but  that  there  is  no  clear  evidence  to  go  by.  The  sweating  sickness  was  prevalent  in 
England  at  different  times  during  the  reign  of  Henry  vii.  j  and  there  is  no  particular 
record  of  its  visiting  Cambridge. 

^  Fordham  in  Cambridgeshire,  north  of  Newmarket.     Snailwell  lies  between. 

3  Punsbome,  near  Hatfield,  in  Hertfordshire. 


IJ7 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1063 

MARGARET,  COUNTESS  OF  RICHMOND,  TO  ^ 

By  the  Kynges  Moder. 

Between  ^  I  CRUSTY  and  right  welbeloved,  we  greet  you  well.  And 
i^Q7  I  wher  by  the  meanes  of  our  trusty  and  right  wel- 
^^^  -"^  beloved  Sir  Reynold  Bray,  Sir  Thomas  Lovell,  and 
jrQo  Sir  Henry  Heydon,  Knights,  there  was  a  full  agreement  made 
and  concluded,  and  also  put  in  writinge,  betwen  our  trusty 
and  right  welbeloved  Sir  John  Savile,  Knight,  and  Gilbert 
Talbot,  Esquier,  on  th*one  partie,  and  yow  on  th'other,  for 
divers  lands  which  they  ought  to  have  in  the  right  of  their 
wives,  daughters  and  heyers  to  William  Paston,  Esquier,  their 
late  fader  deceassed,  which  lands  ye  by  mighty  power  kepe  and 
withholde  from  them  without  any  just  title,  as  they  afferme ; 
and  albeit  the  said  agrement  was  made  by  your  minde  and 
consent,  yet  ye  ne  doe  performe  the  same,  to  our  merveile,  if 
it  be  so.  Wherefore  we  desier  and  also  counsell  yow  without 
delay  upon  the  sight  hereof  now  shortly  to  ride  to  the  court  to 
the  said  arbitrators,  now  ther  being,  with  whom  ye  shall  finde 
your  adverse  partie,  or  other  in  their  names  fully  authorized, 
to  abide  such  final  ende  and  conclusion  in  the  premisses  as 
shall  be  consonant  with  the  said  agrement,  without  further 
troubles  or  busines  therin  hereafter  to  be  had  ;  and  that  ye 
will  thus  do  in  any  wise,  so  as  we  be  not  driven  (through 
your  defalte)  to  put  to  our  hands  for  further  remedye  to  be 
had  in  the  premisses. 

Yeven  under  our  signet  at  our  mannor  of  Colly  Weston, 
the  x'^  day  of  February. 

1  [From  Sandford's  Paston  Genealogy.']  William  Paston,  the  uncle  of  the  two 
Sir  Johns,  died  in  1496,  and  this  letter  must  have  been  written  either  in  the  year 
following  or  between  that  date  and  1503,  when  Sir  Reginald  Bray  died.  William 
Paston's  will,  which  will  be  found  in  the  Appendix,  was  dated  7th  September  1496, 
and  proved  on  the  28th  November  following.  He  married  Anne  Beaufort,  daughter 
of  Edmond,  Duke  of  Somerset,  and  was  therefore  uncle  to  the  writer  of  this  letter, 
Margaret,  Countess  of  Richmond,  the  mother  of  King  Henry  vii.  The  person  to 
whom  the  letter  is  addressed  is  not  named,  but  it  is  not  unlikely  to  have  been  Sir  John 
Paston  the  second. 

158 


HENRY  VII 


1064 

ELIZABETH,  DUCHESS  OF  NORFOLK,  TO 
SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  my  right  welheloved  frende^  Sire  John  Pas  ton  ^  Knyght. 

Elizabeth,  Duches  of  Norffolk. 

ICOMMAUNDE  me  to  you,  thankyng  you  as  hartely  as  i497(?) 
I  can  for  your  labour  and  substancyall  serching  owte  of  feb.  28 
Thomas  Martynz  matyr,  preing  you  of  contenuance,  and 
of  your  best  advyse  therin,  how  he  shall  breke  the  mater  so  as, 
by  your  helpe  and  wysdam,  a  frendely  comunycacion  may  be 
hadde,  so  as  the  mater  may  be  had  in  examynacion  by  suche 
gentylmen  as  shalbe  named  by  th'assent  of  bothe  parties,  suche 
as  tendyr  and  love  the  wele  of  bothe  parties,  and  also  the  pees 
and  tranquyllyte  of  the  cuntre,  and  love  to  eschewe  variaunce 
and  parties  in  the  cuntre,  wherin  ye  shall  not  only  do  a  greete 
pleasure  to  me,  but  a  grete  dede  of  chary  te  for  the  profight  and 
ease  of  both  parties,  and  also  a  pleasure  to  God,  Who  have 
you  in  keping. 

At  Erie  Soham  lodge,  this  xxviij.  day  of  February. 

N.  E.  N. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]      It  seems  probable  that  this  letter  was  written  in 
the  February  following  Sir  Harry  Grey's  death.     {See  No.  1061.) 


159 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


1065 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON 
AND  ANOTHER  1 

'To    my  right   trusty  and   right   welbel[oved  Sir'\  John   Paston^ 

Knyght^  and  Sir Knyghty      .... 

of  them. 

1499     T^  IGHT  trusty  and  welbeloved  councellours,  I  comaunde 
AUG.  20    r^      me  to  you.     And  where  the  Kinges  Grace  is  lately 
•^  acerteinyed  that  Th'Erl  of  Suffolk  is  departid  owt  of 

this  his  Realme,  Hys  Grace  hath  commaundid  me  to  wryte 
unto  you  that  ye  incontynent  uppon  the  sight  of  this  my 
writing  endeovour  you  to  enquyre  aswell  of  such  persones 
as  be  departid  over  with  the  seid  Erie  as  of  theim  that  accom- 
panyed  hym  in  his  repayre  to  the  see,  and  retornyd  ageyn, 
or  in  any  wyse  were  prevy  to  the  same,  and  theruppon,  in 
as  goodly  hast  as  ye  kan,  to  put  them  and  every  of  them 
in  suertie  savely  to  be  kept,  and  therof  t'acerteyn  me,  to 
th'entent  ye  maye  knowe  his  ffurther  pleasure  in  the  same. 
And  if  ye  shall  at  any  tyme  herafter  perceyve  any  suspect 
person  nyghe  unto  the  see  costes  which  shall  seme  unto  you 
to  be  of  the  same  affynyte,  than  His  Grace  will  that  ye  put 
them  in  lyke  suertie.  And  Almighti  God  have  you  in  His 
keping. 

Written  at  Gaddishill,  in  the  He  of  Wight,  the  xx''  daye  of 

August.  OXYNFORD. 

1  [Douce  MS.  393,  f.  87.]  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of  Suffolk,  escaped  abroad 
on  the  I  St  July  1499,  and  proclamations  were  issued  on  the  20th  August  following 
(the  day  on  which  this  letter  was  written)  against  persons  leaving  the  kingdom  with- 
out a  license.  (See  my  Letters  and  Papers  Illustrati've  of  the  Reigns  of  Richard  III. 
and  Henry  riL,  vol.  i.  preface  p.  xl.,  vol.  ii.  p.  377.)  It  appears  that  the  King  was 
at  this  time  staying  at  Godshill,  in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  the  place  from  which  this  letter 
is  dated  (see  Excerpta  Historica,  p.  122). 


160 


HENRY  VII 

1066 

HENRY  VII.  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  ^ 

'To  our  trusty  and  welbeloved  knight^  Sir  John  Pas  ton. 
By  the  Kinge. 

TRUSTY  and  welbeloved,  we  grete  yow  well,  letting  1500 
yow  wete  that  our  derest  cousins,  the  Kinge  and  march  20 
Queene  of  Spaine,  have  signified  unto  us  by  their 
sundry  letters  that  the  right  excellent  Princesse,  the  Lady 
Katherine,  ther  daughter,  shal  be  transported  from  the  parties 
of  Spaine  aforesaid  to  this  our  Realme,  about  the  moneth  of 
Maye  next  comeinge,  for  the  solempnization  of  matrimony 
betweene  our  deerest  sonne  the  Prince  and  the  said  Princesse. 
Wherfore  we,  consideringe  that  it  is  right  fittinge  and  necess- 
arye,  as  well  for  the  honor  of  us  as  for  the  lawde  and  praise 
of  our  said  Realme,  to  have  the  said  Princesse  honourably 
received  at  her  arriveaU,  have  appointed  yow  to  be  one 
amonge  others  to  yeve  attendance  for  the  receivinge  of  the 
said  Princesse  ;  willinge  and  desiringe  yow  to  prepare  your- 
selfe  for  that  intent,  and  so  to  continue  in  redynesse  upon  an 
houres  warninge,  till  that  by  our  other  letters  we  shall  adver- 
tise yow  of  the  day  and  time  of  her  arrivall,  and  where  ye 
shall  yeve  your  said  attendance  ;  and  not  to  fayle  therin,  as 
ye  tender  our  pleasure,  the  honor  of  yourselfe,  and  of  this  our 
foresaid  Realme. 

Yeven  under  our  signet  at  our  mannor  of  Richmount,  the 
xx'y  day  of  Marche. 


1 


[From  the  Paston  Genealogy ^  compiled  by  Sandford,  and  printed  by  Mr.  Worship, 
in  the  Norfolk  Arc/utology.']  Catherine  of  Arragon  was  expected  in  England  in  the 
spring  of  the  year  1500,  although  she  did  not  actually  arrive  till  October  1501,  owing 
to  some  alteration  of  plans. 


VOL.  VI.- 


161 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1067 

RICHARD  CALLE  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

^0  the  right  reverent  and  honurable,  my  master^  Sir  John 

Paston,  Knyght. 

Before  |  JLESITHT  it  your  mastership  to  remembre,  I  shewyd 
1^03  1^  onto  you  in  Lente  that  I  had  bought  Baktons  place. 
Sir,  it  is  so  that  John  Bakton  graunted  to  John  Trovy 
hes  sone  in  lawe,  hes  mese  with  all  the :  londes  and  tene- 
ments, &c.,  takyng  of  the  seide  John  Trovy  viij.  marke  of 
annuyte  yerly,  terme  of  hes  lyf ;  wherupon  endenture  were 
made  and  a  state  dely  verd.  Upon  the  weche  I  bargeyned  with 
Trovy,  payng  to  hym  for  hes  parte  c.  marke  and  x.,  wherof 
he  hadde  in  hande  iiij//.  vjs,  viij^.  and  xvli.  xiijj.  iiij^.  shulde 
be  payd  at  such  tyme  as  I  had  a  lawfuU  astate,  weche  was 
apoynted  before  Michelmes  last  past ;  weche  is  not  yet  done. 
Wherfore  he  hath  forfeted  an  obligacion  of  xUi.  that  he  was 
bounde  in  to  me  for  the  same  astate  ;  ther  was  no  defaute 
in  me,  for  my  money  was  there  redy.  And,  sir,  in  the  same 
weke  after  your  mastership  departed  out  of  this  centre,  Bakton 
and  the  seide  Trovy  come  to  Bakton,  and  sent  for  me,  and 
there  were  we  appoynted  for  the  same  bargeyn  and  accorded, 
wenynge  to  me  and  to  all  tho  that  were  there  it  had  ben  fully 

concl[uded] my  suertes  and  for  all  other 

thynges.  And  sodenly  Bakton  departed  hem  be  the  avice  of 
[the  Prior  of  Brojmholme,  and  John  Bowie  and  other,  weche 
meved  Bakton  that  I  shulde  not  have  my  bargein ;  and  so  they 
entende  to  putte  me  from  my  bergein.  And  master  Fitzlawes, 
Kn[i]ght,  of  Esex,  hath  sent  me  a  letter,  weche  I  sende  you 
closed  herin  ;  and  at  hes  enstaunce  I  have  graunted  Trovy  an 

^  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  From  the  mention  of  *  Master  Fitzlewes,  Knight  of 
Essex/  I  am  inclined  to  think  this  letter  must  be  of  the  reign  of  Henry  vii.,  and 
addressed  to  the  later  Sir  John.  Sir  Lewis  Fitzlewes  of  West  Homdon,  in  Essex,  was 
attainted  as  a  Lancastrian  in  147 1,  but  the  manor  was  restored  to  his  son,  Sir  Richard, 
by  Henry  vii.,  who  presented  to  the  living  from  1494  to  15 19.  The  letter,  however, 
must  of  course  be  earlier  than  1503,  the  year  in  which  Sir  John  Paston  died. 

162 


HENRY  VII 

ende  for  vj//.  and  my  iiij//.  v]s.  viij^.,  and  my  costes  that  I  have  Before 
done  on  the  place,  weche  with  these  mony  and  costes  drawith  1 503 
xij//.  If  I  may  have  all  thes  money  payd  onto  me  within  xiiij. 
dayes  after  Cristemas,  I  wol  take  non  avauntage  of  the  obliga- 
cion,  weche  Trovy  is  bounde  to  me.  I  suppose  Mr.  Lawes 
woU  speke  to  you  of  thes  mater.  I  beseche  you  that  ye  wol 
be  goode  master  to  me  herin,  for  I  am  lothe  to  be  putte  from 
my  bergein.  I  am  in  suerte  there  is  no  man  wol  geve  so 
moche  for  it  as  I  wolde,  and  they  nede  not  to  fere  them  of 
ther  payment,  for  I  ofer  them  iiij.  suertes,  the  worste  of  them 
is  worthe  all  the  lande  ;  yet  Bakton  mystrustes  me,  and  nede 
not.  If  I  had  it,  I  wolde  truste  to  make  it  a  goode  thynge, 
for  ther  is  moche  thynge  ther  by  that  myght  be  had  in  to  it, 
weche  causeth  me  to  be  the  more  desirous  to  it.  I  shewe 
your  mastership  the  previte  of  my  mynde,  trustynge  ye  wolbe 
good  mastre  to  me,  and  I  shal  pray  to  God  for  you  and  for 
all  youres. 

Wreten  at  Felmyngham,  the  Saterday  next  before  Sein 
Marteyn. 

Be  your  servaunt, 

R.  Calle. 


1068 

ABSTRACT  1 

[Richard  Calle]  to   [Sir  John  Paston  ?] 

Reminds  him  that  four  or  five  years  ago  he  received  from  the  writer  *  certain      Year 
wainscoat'   and  certain  fish  for   his  household,   a  hogshead  of  wine,   spars,    micer- 
*  clapholt,'  etc.  in  full  discharge  of  all  former  debts.     Will  always  be  ready  to       .• 
repay  what  his  correspondent  has  paid  for  him  to  the  King.     Received  of  him 
a  millstone,  price  ^^3,  for  which  Calle  gave  a  ryall  in  earnest,  and  delivered 
I  quarter  cod  to  Philip  Loveday.     I  am  grateful  for  the  pains  taken  by  *  your 
mastership '  on  my  account,  etc.  , 

[The  handwriting  of  this  letter  seems  to  be  that  of  Richard  Calle,  but  much  older 
looking  than  that  of  most  of  his  letters.  As  there  is  no  distinct  evidence  of  date,  we 
place  it  after  another  letter  of  his,  which  seems  to  be  late.] 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

163 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 

1069 

SIR  JOHN  KENDAL  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

To  the  right  worshipful  and  my  right  entierly  welbeloved 
CO  sin  and  frende.  Sir  John  Paston^  Knight. 

Before    T)  IGHT  worshipfull  sir,  I  recommaunde  me  unto  you.     I 

I J03      |X       wryte  this  onely  unto  you,  to  advise  you  that  I  was 

mynded  that  my  cousin  Clippesby,^  berer  herof,  shuld 

wele  have  maryed  here  in  thies  partes,  wherin  your  nyce* 

toke  hevy  conceyte,  thinking  in  hir  mynde,  that  I  was  not 

willing  that  my  said  cousin  shulde  marye  with  hir. 

At  that  tyme  I  knewe  not  what  love  was  bitwix  them,  but 
now  I  undrestand  that  bothe  there  myndes  is  to  mary  to 
geders ;  wherunto  on  my  parte,  I  am  agreble  and  wel  content, 
desiring  and  praying  you  to  be  the  same,  and  to  be  the  better 
frende  unto  them  at  this  my  prayer  and  instaunce.  And  what 
pleasir  as  I  may  doo  unto  you  in  thies  partes  shal  be  redye,  in 
that  I  may,  at  your  desires.  And  I  pray  you  to  recommaunde 
me  to  my  cousin  your  nyce.  And  Jesu  preserve  you. 
Writen  at  London,  the  first  day  of  Juyn. 

Your  own,  the  Priour  of  Saint  Johns, 

Sir  John  Kendal. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  Sir  John  Kendal  was  Prior  of  St.  John's  from  1491 
to  1 501,  and  probably  later,  so  that  there  is  nothing  clearly  to  fix  the  date  of  this 
letter,  except  that  it  was  written  before  the  death  of  Sir  John  Paston  in  1503. 

2  John  Clippesby,  Esq.  of  Oby. 

^  Constance,  daughter  of  William  Paston,  Sir  John's  brother. 


164 


HENRY  VII 


.1070 

MARGARET,  COUNTESS  OF  OXFORD,  TO  SIR 
JOHN  PASTONi 

To  my  right  trusty  and  hertely  wilbilovede  sone.  Sir  John 

Paston,  Knyght, 

RIGHT  trusty  and   hertely  wilbiloved   sone,   I   recom-    Year 
mennde  me  to  you,  and  send  you  Godes  blyssynge  uncer* 
and  myn.      And  where  oon  John  Mai  pas  my  olde     tain 
servaunt,  brynger  herof,  hath  purchacede  a  writt  directede  to 
you  and  othre  Justices  of  Peace  in  the  shires  of  NorfFolk  and 
Suffolk,  and  also  to  the  Sheryff  of  the  same,  for  to  put  hym  in 
pessible  possescion  in  such  certayn  landes  of  his,  accordynge 
to  the  Kynges  writt ;  I  pray  you  therefor  hertely,  and  of  my 
blyssynge  charche  you  that  at  this  my  pour  request  and  desir 
ye  wole  pute  you  in  your  faythfuU  devoir  with  othere  Justaces 
associete  with  you,  to  see  the  execuscion  doon  and  performyede 
accordynge  to  the  saide  writt.      And  Almyghty  God  evere 
more  preserve  you,  my  nown  dere  sone. 

Writene  in  my  lordes  castell  of  Hethyngham,  the  xv.  day 
of  January. 

Margret  Oxynford. 

^  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  I  see  nothing  certain  about  the  date  of  this  letter, 
except  that  it  must  have  been  addressed  to  the  later  Sir  John  Paston  (for  in  his 
brother's  time  the  Earl  of  Oxford  was  an  exile,  and  his  Countess  Margaret  in  needy 
circumstances),  so  that  the  date  must  lie  between  1488  and  1503.  For  what  reason 
the  Countess  calls  Sir  John  her  son  I  cannot  explain. 


165 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


1071 

SIR  JOHN  PASTON  TO  WILLIAM  PASTON 
AND  RICHARD  LIGHTFOOTE^ 

^0  my  brother  William  Paston  and  my  cosyn  Richard  Lightfoote^ 

and  to  iche  of  theym. 

1503     Ik  yJT  ASTYRS  bothe,  I  recomand  me  to  yow,  and  send  yow 
^  I       closid  herin  a  booke  of  the  seying  of  dyvers  folkis, 
"^  whiche  testyfiee  ayenst  Thomas  Rutty  and  other.      I 

prey  yow  shewe  it  to  my  lordys  ^  good  lordshepe,  and  that  I 
may  know  hys  plesur  ferther  in  as  hasty  wyse  as  may  be,  that 
I  may  ordre  me  ther  aftyr.  I  had  gret  labore  to  come  by  the 
woman  that  was  in  servyse  with  Rutty,  whiche  sie  [saiJii]  all 
ther  conversacyons  many  yeris.  She  is  now  in  servyse  with 
Richard  Calle.  And  I  have  Thomas  Bange  in  prison  at  Nor- 
wyche  with  the  Shrevys  of  Norwych.  The  woman  seythe  he 
is  as  bold  a  thefFe  as  eny  is  in  Ingland  ;  but  he  wyll  nowghte 
confesse,  nor  I  handelyd  hym  not  sore  to  cause  hym  to  con- 
fesse.  But  and  Ruty  knewe  that  he  and  the  woman  be  in  hold, 
and  hathe  told  talis,  I  thynke  it  wyll  cause  Rutty  to  shewe  the 
pleynesse. 

Clerk  and  Roger  Heron  are  endightid  at  this  sessyons  at 
Norwyche,  last  holdyn  on  Twysday  last  past,  for  robbing  of 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  is  anonymous,  but  is  in  the  hand- 
writing of  Sir  John  Paston,  the  younger  of  that  name.  From  the  mention  of  his  wife 
and  *  the  widow,  her  daughter  Leghe,'  it  was  evidently  written  not  during  the  life  of 
Margery  Brews,  his  first  wife,  who  must  have  died  about  the  year  1495,  but  after  his 
marriage  to  another.  This  second  wife  was  Agnes,  daughter  of  Nicholas  Morley, 
Esq.,  of  the  well-known  family  at  Glynd,  in  Sussex,  and  had  already  been  twice 
married  before  her  marriage  with  Sir  John.  Her  first  husband  was  John  Hervey,  Esq. 
of  Thurleigh,  Beds,  Usher  of  the  Chamber  to  King  Edward  iv.  Her  second  was 
John  Isley  of  Sundridge,  Kent.  By  the  former  she  had  a  daughter,  Isabel,  married 
to  John  Leghe  or  Alyghe,  Esq.  of  Addington,  Surrey,  who  proved  his  father-in-law's 
will  in  14.94.  She  herself  survived  her  own  third  husband.  Sir  John  Paston,  and 
died  in  15 10.  Her  will,  in  which  she  calls  herself 'Dame  Agnes  Paston,'  is  at  the 
principal  registry  at  Somerset  House,  dated  the  31st  May  in  that  year,  and  proved  on 
the  19th  June  following.  For  these  particulars  I  was  indebted  to  the  genealogical 
researches  of  the  late  Colonel  Chester,  and  Notes  and  Queries,  5th  S.  ix.  326,  370, 
414,  512. 

2  The  Earl  of  Oxford. 

166 


HENRY  VII 

the  pardoner  ;  and  so  is  Rotty  and  all  his  felawshepe  that  the  1503 
woman  hat  he  apechid.  According  to  hir  apechement,  RafF 
Taylour  is  over  the  see  ;  Robert  Fenne  is  dede  ;  John  Baker 
and  William  Taylour  ar  yett  untakyn.  If  my  lord  send  for 
T.  Bange  or  the  woman,  some  of  my  lordis  servauntes  had 
need  to  come  for  theym  ;  for  I  can  not  do  in  the  cause  for 
lake  of  men  and  horse,  for  my  wyff  ridith  this  next  week  in  to 
Kente,  to  the  wydow,  hir  doughtir  Leghe. 

And  as  for  Ramesey,  liek  a  prowde,  lewde,  obstynat  foole, 
he  wyll  not  come  befor  my  brothe[r]  Sir  R.  Clere,  nor  me, 
but  he  seythe  he  wyll  be  with  my  lord  hasty ly,  and  shewe  hys 
mynde  to  his  lordshepe,  whiche  I  beleve  not.  The  substan- 
cyall  marchantys  of  Norwyche  hathe  shewid  ther  myndys  to 
my  brother  Sir  R.  Clere  and  me  that  he  entendith  to  William 
Bayly  gret  wronge  in  his  reknynges. 


1072 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD  TO  SIR  JOHN  PASTON  1 

"To  the  right  worshipfull  and  my  right  entierly  welbelovyd 
Sir  John  Paston,  Knyght. 

RIGHT  worshipfull  and  right  intierly  belovyd,  I  com-  After 
maund  me  hartely  to  you.  And  where  as  your  broder  1 503  ? 
William,  my  servaunte,  ys  so  troubelid  with  sekenes 
and  crasid  in  his  mynde,  that  I  may  not  kepe  hym  aboute  me, 
wherfor  I  am  right  sory,  and  at  this  tyme  sende  hym  to  you, 
prayng  especially  that  he  may  be  kepte  surely  and  tendirly 
with  you,  to  suche  tyme  as  God  fortune  hym  to  be  bettyr 
assurid  of  hym  selfe  and  his  myndes  more  sadly  disposid, 
whiche  I  pray  God  may  be  in  shorte  tyme,  and  preserve  you 
longe  in  gode  prosperite. 

Writen  at  my  place  in  London,  the  xxvj.  day  of  Juyn. 

OXYNFORD. 

1  [From  Douce  ms.  393,  f.  86.]  This  letter  is  probably  later  in  date  than  the 
last,  as  it  would  appear  that  when  the  last  was  written,  William  Paston  was  still  in 
the  Earl  of  Oxford's  service. 

167 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


1073 

THE  EARL  OF  OXFORD'S  STEWARD  TO  THE 
'BLACK  KNIGHT '1 

Sinescallus  Comitis  Oxonia  Nigro  Militi. 

NON  decet  Sinescallo  tarn  magni  Comitis 
Ut  Comes  Oxoniae  verbis  in  Anglicis 
Scrittere  epistolas,  vel  suis  in  nuncijs 
Aliquid  proponere  si  non  in  Latinis. 

Igitur  ille  pauperculus  praedicti  Comitis 

Magnus  Sinescallus  magni  Comitatis 
Nuncupatur  NorjfF.  Latinis  in  verbis 

Apud  Knapton  in  curia  in  forma  Judicis. 

Tibi  nigro  militi  salutem,  et  omnibus 
Notifico,  quod  Langdon  ille  homunculus 

NuUam  pecuniam  liberare  vult  gentibus, 

Quod  est  magnum  impedimentum  nostris  operibus. 

Idcirco  tibi  mando  sub  poena  con  tempt  us, 

Quod  tu  indilate  proprijs  manubus 
Scribas  tuas  lettras,  quod  ille  homunculus 

Copiam  pecuniae  deliberet  gentibus. 

Sin  autem  per  littras  has  nostras  patentes 

Ego  et  operarij,  qui  sunt  consentientes 
Omnes  una  voce  promemus  suos  dentes 

Nisi  liberet  pecuniam,  cum  simus  egentes. 

Teste  meipso  apud  Knapton  praedicta, 

Est  et  michi  testis  Maria  Benedicta, 
Quod  vicesimo  die  Julij  non  inde  relicta 

Erat  summa  solidi,  res  hasc  non  est  ficta. 

1  [From  Fenn,  iv.  458.]  The  *  Black  Knight,'  to  whom  this  facetious  doggrel 
was  addressed,  seems  to  me  to  have  been  most  probably  the  later  Sir  John  Paston, 
whose  services  the  Earl  of  Oxford,  as  the  reader  is  aware,  continually  made  use  of. 
The  manor  of  Knapton  came  to  John,  12th  Earl  of  Oxford,  who  died  in  1462,  by  his 
marriage  with  Elizabeth,  grand-daughter  of  Sir  John  Howard. 

168 


HENRY  VII 

1074 

EAST  BECKHAM  1 

WHERE  Sir  John  Paston  and  Roger  Townesende  have  1 50J 
agreed  and  promysed  to  obey  as  we,  Jamys  Hobart  ^^b.  6 
and  John  Yaxley  will  devyse  for  the  varians  of  the 
maner  of  Estbekham  :  We  devyse  and  a  warde  that  Sir  John 
Paston  shall  have  the  seid  maner  to  hym,  and  to  his  heires  ; 
and  he  therfor  shall  paye  to  the  seid  Rogyr  xlli.  at  Pentecoste 
nexte,  and  at  Halowmcsse  nexte  aftyr  that  xl//.,  and  at  Pente- 
coste next  aftyr  that  xx//.  ;  and  the  same  Syr  John  shall  have 
the  arrerages  of  the  seid  maner.  And  if  the  seid  Sir  John 
refuse  to  have  the  maner,  then  the  seid  Rogyr  to  have  the 
same  maner,  with  the  arrerages  as  is  a  forseid,  payeng  to  the 
seid  Sir  John  the  seid  C/i.  at  the  dayes  aforseid  ;  and  the  seid 
Syr  John  to  geve  answer  which  he  will  chose  the  viij.  daye  of 
this  moneth. 

Yevyn  the  vj.  daye  of  Februarii,  anno  R.  R.  H.  vij. 
xviij°. 

And  all  this  to  be  perfurmyd  and  put  in  surte  after  our 
a  vise.  And  we  devise  that  he  that  shall  have  the  land,  shall 
paie  to  th'  other  at  Halwemes  come  twelve monyth,  ten  mark, 
besides  the  seid  C//.,  because  th'arrerages  have  ben  long  in 
the  tenauntes  handes. 

John  Yaxlee. 
Jamys  Hobart. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 


169 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1075 

ARCHBISHOP  WARHAM  TO  WILLIAM  PASTON  1 

'To  my  cousyn  Master  William  Paston. 

^5^3  /^OUSYN  PASTON,  I  recommaunde  me  unto  you,  and 
SEPT.  ^  1  .  have  received  your  letter,  by  the  which  I  have  undre- 
^^^  stand  of  the  deth  of  my  cousyn  your  fadre,  whose 
soule  Jesu  assoile.  I  wol  counsaile  and  exhorte  you  to  take  it 
as  wel  and  as  paciently  as  ye  can,  seeyng  that  we  al  be  mortal 
and  borne  to  dey.  And  where  as  ye  desire  to  have  a  letter  ad 
colligendum,  after  myne  advise  ye  shal  doo  wel  to  be  here  with 
me  at  Michaelmas  next  commyng,  and  at  your  then  commyng 
I  shalbe  glad  to  doo  you  the  best  confort  and  helpe  that  I  can  ; 
counsailing  that  ye  in  the  meane  tyme  doo  not  entremedyll  in 
any  wise  with  th*admynystring  of  any  parte  of  your  faders 
goodes,  nor  with  the  receiving  of  his  debtes,  for  divers  causes, 
as  at  your  comyng  hudre  ye  shal  knowe  more. 

The  meane  season,  loke  that  ye  be  of  as  confortable  chere 
as  ye  can,  exhorting  my  lady,  your  modre  in  lawe,^  to  be  in 
like  wise,  to  whom  I  pray  you  to  have  me  recommendyd. 
Thus  fare  ye  hertily  wel. 

From  London,  the  vj*^  day  of  Septembre. 

Your,  William,  Electe  of  London. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  The  writer  of  this  letter  was  William  Warham, 
who  was  first  Bishop  of  London,  and  afterwards  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  Accord- 
ing to  the  signature,  he  was  Bishop-elect  of  London  at  the  time  it  was  written,  but 
we  are  persuaded  that  it  is  a  slip  of  the  pen.  He  was  elected  Bishop  of  London  in 
1 502,  and  was  consecrated  on  the  5th  October  ;  but  it  is  clear  from  the  preceding  No. 
that  Sir  John  Paston  was  alive  as  late  as  the  beginning  of  February  1503.  In  the 
year  1503,  however,  Warham  was  translated  to  Canterbury.  The  bull  for  his  transla- 
tion was  issued  on  the  29th  November  1503,  but  doubtless  he  was  elected  some  time 
before  j  and  it  is  quite  intelligible  how,  being  actually  Bishop  of  London,  he  should 
have  written  *  Elect  of  London '  in  place  of  *  Elect  of  Canterbury.'  Moreover,  the 
allusion  to  the  business  of  the  administration  agrees  entirely  with  this  supposition. 

'  Agnes,  widow  of  John  Hervey,  Esq.  of  Thurley,  Beds,  etc.  See  p.  i66. 
Note  I. 


170 


HENRY  VII 


1076 

JOHN  KENDAL  TO  [WILLIAM  PASTON?]i 

YOUR  pore  servaunt  and  bedeman,  John  Kendale,  be    1503, 
secheth  your  good  and  gracious  masterschepp,  at  the  re-      or 
verence  of  God  and  in  the  wey  of  chary te,  to  remembre  later  (?) 
that  my  maister  your  fader,  on  whos  soule  God  have  mercy, 
had  fro  me  x.  acres  of  free  londe  that  I  bout  of  the  executours 
of  Nicholas  Pekeryng  of  Filby  for  xx.  marc  paid  on  j.  day, 
to  pay  to  executours  of  Edmonde  Norman  for  purchase  of  ij . 
partes  of  Holm  Halle,  somtyme  Edmonde  Norman. 

Also  my  seide  maister,  your  fader,  had  fro  John  Kendale 
the  croppe  of  the  seide  x.  acres  londe,  sowen  with  barly  and 
peson,  wherof  v.  acres  were  weel  somerlayde^  to  the  seid 
barly,  the  whiche  croppe  the  seide  John  Kendale  schulde  a 
made  worth  to  hym  iiij//.  xiijj.  iiij^.,  althow  ther  had  be  but 
XX.  quarteres  barly  growyng  on  viij.  acres  and  half  of  londe, 
that  is  to  seyn  up  on  an  acre  ij.  quarter,  iiij.  busshelz,  and  the 
half  acre  in  avayle,  besyde  j.  acre  and  an  half  of  peson,  for  the 
seide  John  Kendale  solde  his  malt  at  Ormesby  mad  of  the 
barly  growyng  the  same  yer  that  the  foreseid  croppe  was  taken 
fro  hym,  for  iiijj.  viij^.  a  quartere  ;  and  so  he  myght  a  solde 
the  same  and  meche  more  if  he  had  had  it. 

Also  my  seid  maister,  your  fader,  hath  caused  the  foreseid 
John  Kendale  to  a  foreborne  the  ferme  of  the  seide  x.  acres 

*  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  If  this  petition  was  addressed  to  any  member  of  the 
Paston  family,  I  should  think  it  must  have  been  William  Paston,  the  son  of  the  later 
Sir  John.  That  would  make  the  date  at  least  as  late  as  the  year  1503,  when  his  father 
died.  If  it  was  either  of  the  two  Sir  Johns,  *  my  master  your  father '  would  be  John 
Paston,  Esquire,  who  died  in  1466.  But  Nicholas  Pickering  of  Filby  is  said  to  have 
been  buried  in  the  steeple  of  Filby  church  in  the  year  1466,  and  it  is  evident  that  *my 
master  your  father '  survived  him  more  than  nine  years. 

Edmund  Norman,  whose  executors  are  here  spoken  of,  died  as  far  back  as  1444. 
BlomeHeld  says  he  was  seised  of  two  parts  of  the  manor  of  Filby,  but  does  not  mention 
him  as  being  also  owner  of  two  parts  of  Holm  Hale.  The  two  parts  of  Filby  were 
afterwards  held  in  trust  by  Sir  John  Fastolf ;  but  William  Pickering  and  Cecily,  his 
wife,  were  lords  of  the  whole  manor  and  settled  it  on  John  Paston,  who  released  it  to 
Nicholas  Pickering  in  1450. — Blomefield,  xi.  a  18,  221. 

*  Kept  fallow  for  some  time  previous  to  sowing. 

171 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1503,    of  londe  be  the  space  of  ix.  yer,  be  the  yer  xvy.  &  viij^.,  that 
or      is,  the  ferme  of  j.  acre  xxd.,  wherof  the  somme  conteyneth 
later  (?)  vij//.  xs.  beside  j.  yer  receyved  of  Hagh.^ 


1077 
ABSTRACT  2 

I  CO4  Receipt  given  by  Thomas    Bradbury,  alderman  of  London,  to  William 

DEC.  10    Piston,  Esq.  of  Norfolk,  loth  Dec.  1504,  for  ^^5  in  full  payment  of  half  a 
year's  rent. 


1078 
WILLIAM  MAKEFYRR  TO  DARCY  AND  ALYNGTON* 

To  the  ryght  worschypfull  Master  Roger  Darsy  and  Master  Gylys 
Alyngton^  beyng  at  the  Jeorge^  in  Lumberd  Strett^  be  thys 
delyveryd  in  hast.  % 

1 506      I  ^  YGHT  worschypfull  masters,  I  recomend  me  un  to  you, 

JAN.  17     rC       certyfying  you  that  the  Kynges  Grace  and  the  Kyng 

of  Castyle  mett  this  day  at  thre  of  the  cloke,  apon 

Cleworth  Greyn,  ij.  mylle  owt  of  Wyndesower,  and  ther  the 

Kyng  reseyvyd  hym  in  the  goodlyest  maner  that  ever  I  sawe, 

and  ech  of  them  enbracyd  oder  in  armys. 

To  schew  you  the  Kynges  aparell  of  Yngland,  thus  it  was  : 
— hys  hors  of  bay,  trappyd  with  nedyll  warke  ;  a  gown  of  pur- 
puyr  velvyt,  a  cheyn  with  a  joerge  of  dyamondes,  and  a  hood 
of  purpuyr  velvyt,  whych  he  put  not  of  at  the  mettyng  of  the 

1  Here  the  Ms.  ends  abruptly. 

2  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.] 

2  [From  Paston  Mss.,  B.M.]  This  letter  gives  an  account  of  the  meeting  of 
Henry  vii.  and  Philip,  King  of  Castile,  near  Windsor,  during  the  time  when  the 
latter  was  detained  in  England  in  the  beginning  of  the  year  1506.  It  is  well  known 
how  after  setting  out  from  the  Low  Countries  to  take  possession  of  his  kingdom  of 
Castile,  Philip  met  with  a  storm,  and  was  driven  to  land  on  our  coast,  and  how,  on 
hearing  of  it,  Henry  invited  him  to  visit  him  at  his  Court,  where  he  staid  for  some 
time  while  the  damage  done  to  his  fleet  was  being  repaired. 

172 


HENRY  VII 

seyd  Kyng  of  Castylle ;   hys  hatt  and  hys  bonett  he  avalyd,     1506 
and  the  Kyng  of  Castylle  in  cas  lyke.      And  the  Kyng  of  J^^.  17 
Castyll  rod  apon  [a]  sorellyd  hoby,  whych  the  Kyng  gave  un 
to  hym ;  hys  apparell  was  all  blak,  a  gown  of  blalc  velvytt,  a 
blak  hood,  a  blak  hatt,  and  hys  hers  harnes  of  blake  velvytt. 

To  schew  you  of  the  Kynges  company,  my  Lord  Harry  of 
Stafforth  ^  rod  in  a  gown  of  cloth  of  tuyssew,  tukkyd,  furryd 
with  sabulles,  a  hatt  of  goldsmyth  worke,  and  full  of  stons, 
dyamondes,  and  rubys,  rydyng  apon  a  sorellyd  courser  bardyd 
with  a  bayrd  of  goldsmythes  wark,  with  rosys  and  draguns 
red. 

And  my  Lord  Markas  ^  rydyng  apon  a  bald  sorelyd  hors, 
with  a  deyp  trapper  full  of  long  tassels  of  gold  of  Venys,  and 
apon  the  crowper  of  hys  hors  a  whytt  fedyr,  with  a  cott  apon 
hys  bak,  the  body  goldsmyths  wark,  the  slevys  of  cremysyne 
velvyt,  with  letters  of  gold. 

My  Lord  of  Kent^  apon  a  sorelyd  hors,  bald,  the  harnes  of 
Venys  gold,  with  a  deyp  frynges  of  half  zerd  of  lengh.  My 
Lord  of  Kent  cott  was  on  barr  of  cloth  of  gold,  an  oder  of 
cremysyn  velvyt,  pyrlyd  with  a  demy  manche  cut  of  by  the 
elbowe.     Thyes  be  the  lords  that  bare  the  bruyt. 

Sir  Hew  Waghan  apon  a  bay  hors  trappyd  with  cremysyn 
velvyt  full  of  gylt  bels,  a  gown  of  blak  velvyt,  and  a  cheyn  of 
gold,  bawdryk  wys,  worth  v.  hondreth  pownd. 

Thys  be  the  sperys  :  Master  Sant  John  apon  a  blak  hors, 
withh  arnes  of  cloth  of  gold  with  tasselles  of  plunkytt  and 
whytt,  a  cott  of  plunkytt  and  whytt,  the  body  of  goldsmyths 
werk,  the  s[l]evys  full  of  spanguls. 

John  Carr  and  William  Parr  cotts  lyke,  the  horsys  gray, 
of  ^  Parr  trappyd  with  cremysyn  velvyt  with  tasselles  of  gold, 
and  bels  gylt.     Carr  hors  bay  with  an  Almayn  harnes  of  sylver, 

1  Henry,  Earl  of  Stafford,  eldest  son  and  heir  of  Edward  Stafford,  Duke  of 
Buckingham,  who  was  attainted  and  beheaded  in  1521. 

2  Thomas  Grey,  Marquis  of  Dorset,  was  the  son  of  Thomas,  the  late  Marquis, 
who  was  the  son  of  Elizabeth,  Queen  of  Edward  iv.  by  her  first  husband.  Sir  John 
Grey  of  Groby.  This  nobleman  in  the  next  reign  became  Lord  of  the  Marches 
between  England  and  Scotland,  which  he  stoutly  kept  and  boldly  maintained.  He 
died  in  1530,  22  Hen.  viii. — F. 

^  George  Gray,  Earl  of  Kent,  was  a  true  soldier  to,  and  a  favourite  of  Henry,  and 
survived  this  pageant  a  very  short  time,  dying  within  the  year. — F. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 506    an  ynch  brod  of  betyn  sylver,  both  the  cottes  of  goldsmythes 
JAN.  17    wark  the  bodys,  the  slevys  on  stryp  of  syllver,  the  oder  gylt. 

Edward  Nevell  apon  a  gray  hors  trappyd  with  blak  velveyt 
full  of  small  belles,  hys  cott  the  on  half  of  greyn  velvyt,  the 
oder  of  whytt  cloth  of  gold  ;  thyse  to  the  rutters  of  the  spers, 
with  oder  dyvers  well  appontyd. 

On  the  Kyng  of  Castylles  party,  the  Lord  Chamberlayn 
cheyfF,  I  can  not  tell  hys  name  as  yett ;  hys  apparell  was  sad, 
and  so  was  all  the  resydeu  of  hys  company  with  clokes  of  sad 
tawnye  blake,  gardyd,  sum  with  velvyt  and  sum  with  sarsnyt, 
not  passyng  a  dosyn  in  nowmber.  It  is  sayd  ther  is  many  by 
hynd,  wych  cums  with  the  Queyn  of  Castyll,  wych  schall  cum 
apon  Teyusday. 

When  the  Kyng  rod  forth  to  Wyndesouer  Castyle,  the 
Kyng  rode  apon  the  ryght  hand  the  Kynges  of  Castylle,  how 
be  it  the  Kynges  Grace  ofFeryd  hym  to  take  hym  apon  the 
ryght  hand,  the  whych  he  refussyd.  And  at  the  lyghtyng  the 
Kyng  of  Castylle  was  of  hys  hors  a  good  space  or  owr  Kyng 
was  a  lyght ;  and  then  the  Kynges  Grace  ofFeryd  to  take  hym 
by  the  arm,  the  whych  he  wold  not,  bot  toke  the  Kyng  by  the 
arme,  and  so  went  to  the  Kynges  of  Castylle  chamber,  whych 
is  the  rychestly  hangyd  that  ever  I  sawe;  vij.  chambers  to 
geder  hangyd  with  cloth  of  arras  wroght  with  gold  as  thyk  as 
cowd  be  ;  and  as  for  iij.  beds  of  astate,  no  kyng  Crystyned  can 
schew  sych  iij. 

Thys  is  as  fer  as  I  can  schew  you  of  this  day,  and  when  I 
can  know  mor,  ye  schall  have  knowlege. 

From  Wyndesouer  this  Saterday,  at  v.  of  the  cloke. 

By  yours,  William  Makefyrr. 


174 


HENRY  VII 


1079 

AN  INVENTORY! 

James  Gloys,  j.  dongge,^ 

Item,  a  coverlete, 

Item,  ij.  blankettes,     . 

Item,  ij.  pare  of  shettes, 

Item,  a  sellore,^ 

Item,  a  rosour,  . 

Item,  V.  shertes. 

Item,  j.  roset  cape. 

Item,  iiij.  gownes. 

Item,  a  curt  baron. 

Item,  iij.  gyrdylles,     . 

Item,  iij.  payre  of  hossen,    . 

Item,  j.  song  boke,  pris 

Item,  j.  dowbelet  of  fustian, 

Item,  j.  grene  cotte,    . 

Item,  ij.  payre  schone, 

Item,  j.  box  with  j.  porse  of  cloth  of  gold, 

Item,  j.  crosse  silver,  . 

Item,  j.  sawtere. 

Item,  j.  premere, 

Item,  j.  boke  of  statutis. 

Item,  j.  boke  of  vitas  Patrum, 

Item,  j.  purs  in  the  bedstraw  with 

Item,  j.  boke  of  xij.  chapetyrs  of  Lynccoln 

and  a  boke  of  safistre,* 
Item,  vj.  steyned  paperis,  . 
Item,  ij.  scochenes,     .... 


njj. 

YS. 

VJJ. 

XJ. 


vnjj. 

XXVJJ. 


VJJ. 

iijj. 
ijj. 


VJJ. 

ijj. 

•  • 

XXJ. 

xs. 


viij^. 

xij^. 
viij^. 

iiij^. 

viij^. 

xl^. 

Y]d. 

xx^. 
iiij^. 

xiiij^. 

xW. 

xU 
viij^. 

xW. 


xijy. 
v\\]d. 


1  [From  Add.  Charter  17,255,  B.M.]  This  inventory  might  perhaps  have  been 
inserted  in  the  year  1474,  after  the  death  of  James  Gloys,  v^rith  whose  name  it  begins. 
{See  No.  857.)  The  year  in  which  it  was  drawn  up  is,  however,  by  no  means  certain, 
as  the  articles  seem  to  have  belonged  to  many  different  owners;  and  it  may  be  con- 
veniently referred  to  here  at  the  end  of  our  collection. 

2  A  mattress.  '  A  bed  canopy. 

*  Sophistry,  i.e.  dialectics. 

17s 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Item,  a  swerd,  pris.    .         .         .         .         . 

Item,  a  towayle,  .  .  .  .  . 

Item,   a  supersedyas  of  Gloys,  Osborn  and 

Snallewell. 
Item,  a  bleu  gown  of  William  Tavernerys, 
Item,  a  blake  cloke,    . 
Item,  a  bottell  for  wine  of  a  potell. 
Item,  a  peyre  of  tabille  of  home  and  box. 
Item,  a  confessionall, 


Herre  Boll,  a  dongge, 

Item,  a  traunsom. 

Item,  a  paire  of  schettis, 

Item,  a  blanket. 

Item,  a  coverlet. 

Item,  a  pillow  of  down, 

Item,  ij.  curteynes. 

Item,  gownes,    . 

Item,  a  dowblet  of  fostian. 

Item,  iij.  schertes. 

Item,  a  towayle. 

Item,  a  blake  hod. 

Item,  ij.  cofforys  stufFet, 

Unde,  j .  was  sprwys  chyst  with, 

Item,  j.  clasp  of  sylver. 

Item,  of  payse  money. 

Item,  ix.  ferthynges,  . 

Item,  a  lytyll  chyst,    . 

Item,  ij.  pors  with,     . 

Item,  iiij.  rynges. 

Item,  a  box  with  bedys,  qwere  of  ij.  payre  of 

jett,  with  Paternosterys  of  corall, 
Item,  a  poyre  of  jett,  pris, 
Item,  V.  payre  of  box. 
Item,  a  payre  of  ambre. 
Item,  a  purs  of  welwet. 
Item,  iij.  payre  of  knyifes. 
Item,  a  payr  of  hernishede  knyfFes, 

176 


XJ. 

y]s. 
ijj. 


my. 

•  •  • 

ll]S. 

ijj. 

ly. 
xs. 

vs, 

ijs. 
ijs. 

xxs. 


viij^. 
x^. 


•  •• 

iijj. 


xij^. 
xvj^. 


xU. 


xijd. 

xld. 
viij^. 


xij^. 
x\]d. 

\]d.  ob, 

Y]d. 
Y\]d.  ob. 


xU. 

xij./. 

xd. 

xviij^. 

viij^. 

xd. 

x\jd. 


HENRY  VII 


Item,  V.  napettes,        .         .         .         . 
Item,  iij.  hedkerchefFes,  pris 
Item,  a  box  with  sylke  and  perryll, 
Item,  a  powche  of  rosset  damaske, 
Item,  a  payre  of  gold  weghtes  in  a  case, 
Item,  a  broch  of  sylver  with  a  crown,  . 
Item,  a  payre  of  beddes  of  segamore,  . 
Item,  a  box  of  tene  with  sylver  wire. 
Item,  iij.  new  gyrdyll,  pris  . 

-Item,  in  the  second  coffer  was  bokes,  pris 
Item,  a  boke  of  Seynt  Thomas  de  Veritati- 

bus,  pris      ..... 
Item,  a  red  boke  with  Hugucio  and  Papie, 
Item,  iij.  bokes  of  soffistre, 
-Item,  maney  other  smale  bokes. 
Item,  iij.  cappis. 
Item,  a  surplice, 
Item,  iij.  letterys  of  pardon. 
Item,  a  stevynyd  ^  clothe,  a  crucifix. 
Item,  a  payre  of  dowbyll  glovys,  furredde 

with  lambe. 
Item,  ij.  payr  of  hosson. 
Item,  a  combe  of  veveri,^    . 

John  Osborn,  a  cott  of  rosset,  pris 

Item,  a  stomaucher  of  a  zerd  of  gode  new 

hollond  clothe,    . 
Item,  iiij.  payre  of  sokkes,  pris 
Item,  ij.  payre  of  lyncloys. 
Item,  ij.  payre  of  hossen,     . 
Item,  a  payre  of  schone. 
Item,  a  payre  schettes. 
Item,  iij.  gyrdyll, 

Jamus  Halmon,  iiij.  schettes. 

Item,  ij.  schertis  and  a  quarter  of  lynclothe, 

1  Parti-coloured.  *  Ivory. 

VOL.  VI. M 


yd. 

Y\]d. 

.     iijj. 

-xxd. 

ijj. 

xvjd. 
iiij//. 

ix^. 

x.v]d. 

XJ. 

XXJ. 

xxd. 

XJ. 

xd. 

x\d. 

XJ. 

xxd. 

e 

v]d. 

vs. 

v]d. 

iij  J. 

liijd. 

1 

xd. 

viij^. 
viij^. 

iiij  J. 

vij^. 

iiij  J. 

ix^. 

XJ. 

\]S. 

vj^. 

177 

THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


} 


Item,  a  pelow  here,     . 

Item,  ij.  payre  of  sockes,     . 

Item,  a  gown  furret  with  blake  lom, 

Item,  a  payre  of  cremessen  hossen, 

Item,  a  payre  spores,  a  pare  of  glovis, 

Item,  iij.  gyrdyll. 

Item,  a  stomaker  of  lenclothe. 

Item,  a  payre  of  shone, 

Item,  stafFe,  pris 

Item,  a  sakke,    , 


Syngleton,  a  payr  of  bottes  and  a  parre  of 
sporis,         ...... 

Item,  a  sadyll,  a  paytrell  and  a  brydoll  and 
ij.  gerthisj  .... 

Item,  a  payre  of  dowbelet  slevys  of  blake. 

Item,  a  payre  of  slevys  of  rosset. 

Item,  a  payr  of  stokes  of  fustian. 

Item,  a  pare  of  schone. 

Item,  a  schyrt,   ..... 

Item,  a  purs  with        .... 

Item,  a  gyrdyll,  a  payre  of  patanys. 

Item,  a  dagar  knyffe,  pris    . 

Katryn  Wilton,  a  donge,     . 

Item,  a  coverlet,  .... 

Item,  a  blanket,  .... 

Item,  a  payr  of  shettes. 

Item,  a  pelow  of  doun. 

Item,  a  payre  of  new  hosson, 

Item,  a  gown  and  a  kertyll. 

Item,  a  cors  harnesshet  with  blake,  pris 

Item,  a  hod,       ..... 

Item,  a  kercher  of  lawn,  pris 

Item,  ij.  kercher  of  therd,  . 

Item,  a  payre  off  bedys  of  ambre. 

Item,  a  new  canvasse. 

^  Struck  through  with  the  pen. 
178 


XS. 

iijj. 


vja. 


xv]d. 

ixd. 
vnjd. 

vij^. 

iiijy. 
viij^. 


iij  J.     iiij^. 


XS, 


njj. 


ijs. 


[viij^.]^ 

Vlj^. 

xxd. 

iiij^. 
iiij^. 


iij  J.     iiij^. 
iij  J.     iiij^. 
iijj. 
iiijj. 

xij^. 

vjijy. 
vjj.    viij^. 

xxd. 
iijj.     iiij^. 

xxd. 

xijd. 

xxd. 


HENRY  VII 

Jane  Belton,  a  blanket,        .... 

Item,  a  shette,    ...... 

Item,  a  kerchey  therd,  and  ther  in  was  v]s.  vnjd. 
Item,  a  payre  of  beydys  of  jette  with  Patter 

nosteris  of  corall,  pris 
Item,  a  payre  of  turnerys  of  lawn. 
Item,  a  yerd  of  lynclothe,   . 
Item,  a  payre  of  hossen. 
Item,  a  smoke. 
Item,  a  kercher  of  thred,    . 


ijj 

of  gold. 


iiijV. 


xxd. 

v\\]d. 

viij^. 

xxd. 

vujd. 


Symond  Houston,  a  payre  of  bottes,  a  payre 
of  sporis,    ...... 

Purrey,  a  blw  gown,  ..... 
Item,  a  briduU  and  a  feterloke,     . 
Item,  a  payr  of  hossen,  a  payr  of  schon, 
Item,  a  pare  of  furred  glovys. 

Frere  John  Alderiche,  ij.  quaris  of  prayeris. 
Item,  a  powtenere  with  a  payre  of  bedys 
of  jette.  Item,  a  scapelerey  with  an 
hodde,        ...... 


John  Keduray,  a  payre  of  lynclothys,  j.  gown 

of  blw,        ..... 
Item,  a  payre  of  hossen. 
Item,  a  payre  of  schone, 
Item,  a  payre  of  glovys  and  a  hatt, 

Simond  Sadiller,  a  payre  of  sporis, 
Item,  a  knyfF  hernyshid  with  sylver,     . 

Robert  Fen,  a  gown. 

Item,  a  cappe,    ..... 

Item,  a  peyre  of  hossen. 

Item,  a  chart  (?),  pris  .... 


iiijj. 

viijj. 

xvj^. 
ijj.     vij^. 


vy,    viij^. 


v]s.    viij^. 
xx^. 

xij^. 

xljd. 
xij^. 


VJJ. 


iiij^. 
xvj^. 
xv]d. 

179 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Richard  Charlys,  a  peyr  of  hossen, 
Item,  a  dager,    .... 
Item,  a  gyrdyll. 
Item,  a  cappe  of  rosset, 

Jhon  Faster,  a  home, 

John  Judde,  a  chert,  pris     . 
Item,  a  peyr  of  bedys  of  jett, 

William  Bemond,  a  custell,  pris  . 
Item,  a  perre  of  bottes,  pris 
Item,  a  peyre  of  glovys  of  otter. 

Water  Wynter,  a  shert, 

A  dager,   ..... 

A  purs  with        .... 

Sander  Koke,  a  mourey  gown,     . 

Item,  a  cotte  of  moster  develers,^ 

Item,  a  blanket, 

Item,  a  peyre  of  shettes, 

Item,  iij.  peyr  of  shoys. 

Item,  a  peyr  of  sokkes, 

Item,  a  hatt. 

Item,  a  peyr  of  patanys,  a  cappe  of  violet,  "I 

Item,  iij.  gyrdyll,  and  a  cerchey  [kerchief  \  j 

Item,  ij.  of^  of  hossen,  pris 

Snallewell,  a  schet,  pris 

Item,  ij.  shurtes,  a  peyr  ofe  lynclothis. 

Item,  ij.  dowbelettes,  pris    . 

Item,  iij.  gyrdyll,  ij.  cappes, 

Item,  ij.  peyr  of  hossen. 

Item,  a  lyneng  to  a  gown,  . 

Item,  an  hodde. 


\]S. 


VJJ. 

iijj. 
iiijj. 


njj. 


xvj^. 
xvj^. 

viij^. 

xvj^. 
viij^. 

xvj^. 


xij^/. 

xij^. 
x^. 


xl^. 

xx^. 

ij^. 

xij^. 

xij^. 


xx^. 
xx^. 
xl^. 
xv^. 
xl^. 
xx^. 
xl^. 


1  Grey  woollen  cloth. 
I  80 


*  So  in  MS. 


HENRY  VII 


John  Bube  (?),  ane  hatt,  pris 
Item,  a  bowe,  pris 
Item,  a  peyr  of  bottes, 
Item,  a  purs  with 
Item,  a  cappe,     . 


Herry  Gunnold,  tablys  and  stolys,  pris 


vs. 


Y]d. 


1080 


WYKES'S  BILLi 
^owardis  my  Lord  of  Oxford, 
In  primis  at  Brentwode  for  horsmete,  . 


Chelmesford 


Item  for  our  dyner  there, 
Item  for  horsmete  there, 


Item  for  horsmete  there, 
Item  for  drynke  there, 


Brambtre 


Hydyngham 

Item  for  oure  soper  there,   . 

Item  for  horsmete  there, 

Item  for  wayshyng  of  my  shert  and  botes, 


Laneham 


Item  for  horsmete  there. 


lid. 


m]d.  oh. 
ijd. 


]d 


oh. 


iiiy. 
iiij^. 
\d,  oh. 


¥• 


^  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  231.]    This  bill  of  travelling  expenses  cannot  be  assigned 
to  any  particular  year  j  but  it  would  seem  to  be  of  the  reign  of  Henry  vii. 

181 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Hadlegh 

Item  for  horsmete  there,     ....  ]d. 

Item  for  brede  and  drynke  there,  .  .  ]d, 

'Taderston 

Item  for  horsmete  there,      .  .  .         .  \^d,  ob. 

Item  for  Williamis  dyner  there,  ...  ij^. 

Coylchestere 

Item  for  horsmete  there,      .         .         .         .  ix^. 

Item  for  the  sadelere,           ....  iij^. 

Item  payd  to  the  smyth,      ....  Y\]d. 

Item  for  brede  and  drynke  there,          .         .  ij^. 

JVytham 

Item  for  horsmete  there,      ....  ]d. 

Item  for  brede  and  drynke  there,  .         .  ]d.  ob. 

Chelmesford 

Item  for  oure  dyner  there,  ....  m]d 

Item  for  horsmete  there,     ....  ]a. 

Brentwoae 

Item  for  horsmete  there,     ....  \a. 

Item  for  brede  and  drynke  there,  .  .  j^.  ob. 

Item  for  a  dosyn  poyntis,    .  .  .         .  ijV. 

Summa  expens,         .         .         .  vj. 

Endorsed:  Wykes. 


182 


HENRY  VII 

1081 

T.  BALKEY  TO  JOHN  PASTON^ 

To  his  ryght  wurshipfull  maister,  John  Paslon,  Esguier, 
this  by II  be  delyverid  in  hast. 

RYGHT  wurshipfull  and  myne  especyall  good  maister,  I  Date 
comaund  me  vonto  your  good  maistership.  Sir,  it  is  uncer- 
so  that  there  hath  ben  a  gret  rumour  and  mervelous  tain 
noyse  of  yower  departyng  flrro  Yermoth  ;  for  summe  seid  that 
ye  were  departed  in  a  Duch  ship  and  some  seid  in  aspaynessh 
ship  and  some  seid  in  yower  ship,  and  some  seid  ayein  your 
wyll  ye  were  departed ;  of  wych  departyng  my  lord  Steward 
hadde  knowleche  and  comaunded  a  noon  after  your  old  ser- 
vaunt  Rychard  Fitzwater  to  ryde  to  Norwich,  and  so  to 
Yermoth,  to  knowe  the  trowth.  And  at  Norwich  I  spoke 
with  your  seid  servaunt,  and  ther  he  shewed  vonto  me  that 
my  lord  hadde  send  another  of  his  servauntis  vonto  my  Lord 
of  Oxynford  to  shew  vonto  his  lordship  of  your  departyng, 
&c.,  and  fFerthermore  he  shewed  vonto  me  prevyly  that  my 
Lord  hath  imagyned  and  purposed  many  grevous  thyngis 
ayens  your  Maistership ;  for  wych  cawse  he  shewed  wnto  me 
that  in  any  wyse  your  mastership  shuld  not  come  that  wey, 
and  I  shall  shewe  your  maistership  moch  more  at  your 
comyng,  with  the  grace  of  God,  whoo  ever  preserve  your 
good  maistership.  At  Norwich  the  Sonday  next  after  Sent 
Marke. — Your  servaunt,  T.  Balkey. 

1  [Add.  MS.  33,597,  f.  10.]  There  is  nothing  in  the  rest  of  the  Paston  correspon- 
dence to  throw  any  light  upon  this  letter,  either  as  to  the  date  at  which  it  was 
written,  or  as  to  the  person  addressed,  whether  it  be  John  Paston  the  eldest  or  the 
younger  of  the  two  Johns,  his  sons. 


183 


THE    PASTON  LETTERS 

1082 

ANONYMOUS  TO  MASTER  PASTON  ^ 

MAISTER  PASTON,  it  is  so  that  my  Lord  desireth  to 
have  his  lyverey  as  for  this  yere  to  be  of  the  colour 
that  he  hadde  him  self  a  demye  gowne  of,  and  his 
childern  hadde  of  the  same  ayenst  Cristmasse  laste  was  ;  I 
wot  never  whether  ye  remembre  it  or  nay.  Yt  was  a  medelled 
tawney,  som  what  rede,  and  it  was  bought  at  Watkyn  Stal- 
worthes.  I  pray  you  assaye  among  the  clothe  makers  in  your 
countre  howe  a  man  may  bye  a  cloth  of  them.  Ye  muste 
remembre  the  gentilmen  muste  have  better  than  the  yomen, 
and  the  yomen  better  than  the  gromes.  And  ye  knowe  well 
that  ye  and  I  the  laste  yere  pourvoied  my  lord  of  the  gentil- 
menes  lyverey  and  the  yomens  for  iijj.  a  yerde,  one  with  a 
pother,  and  the  gromes  for  ijs.  viij<^.,  and  boughte  all  at  the 
drapers  in  London.  Wherfore  my  Lord  woU  thinke  to  be 
served  of  better  clothe  and  lesse  price  at  the  clothe  makers.  I 
wolde  have  sente  you  an  example  but  I  can  not  gette  it. 

1083 
ROBERT  KYLLYGREWE  TO  RICHARD  WASSE2 

Thys  letter  be  delyvyrde  on  to  my  fadyrynlav  Rychard  Wasse 
dewelly  yn  the  parris  of  Morton. 

WELLE  belovyd  fadyr,  y  recommende  me  on  to  you, 
and  y  thonke  you  of  your  gode  cherre  to  me  beyng 
vyt   you   laste,  &c.      Fadyr,  hyt   ysso  asfor   the 
promysse  that  ys  by  twyxt  you  and  me,  y  hope  to  God  to 

'  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  148.]  This  letter  contains  a  great  many  uncertainties. 
The  writer  is  anonymous,  the  person  addressed  is  by  no  means  clear,  and  the  lord 
referred  to  cannot  be  determined.  Neither  is  there  any  means  of  arriving  at  an 
approximate  date. 

2  [Add.  MS.  34,889,  f.  181.]  It  is  difficult  to  connect  this  letter  with  the  rest  of 
the  Paston  correspondence,  or  to  give  any  idea  as  to  its  date. 

184 


HENRY  VII 

contayne  you  of  my  promysse.  So  by  that  y  am  so  lenge  on 
y  payde  on  to  you,  Fadyr,  hyt  ysso  ye  have  y  lefte  me  yn  so 
grete  a  danger  wyt  the  reparasyon  of  Wolston  ande  wythe 
Benet  Barnarde  that  y  am  so  lenge  byhynde  vyt  you  of  my 
promys;  nere  the  les  y  have  sende  you  by  Herry  Penennec 
iiij.  mark  a  fore  Crystmas,  ande  the  wederyng  fyl  so  fowle  a 
konnot  go  on  to  you.  Fadyr,  hyt  yesso  y  have  payde  Benet 
Barnarde  viij.  marke  for  the  fe  that  ye  made  on  to  hym,  and 
more  y  moste  pay  hym  for  you,  for  he  axyt  of  you  yn  hoUe 
xij//.  wyt  the  fe,  ande  hys  labor  that  a  dydc  for  you  yn 
London.  For  he  sayt  that  ye  nevyr  payde  hym  of  no  fyne, 
nodyr  for  no  odyr  coste  that  a  dyde  for  you  wylle  ye  werre  yn 
thys  contray.  Therfore  y  pray  you  to  sende  on  to  me  a  dys- 
charge  for  the  sayde  xij//.,  or  ellys  a  woUe  dystrayne  me  and 
put  me  to  scharge  an  coste  as  a  hath  strayne  my  tenenttes 
byfore  for  thys  mater  and  costys.  For  dermore  Boryng  hath 
take  an  accion  yn  the  comyn  law  ayenst  us  bothe,  entendyng 
to  dryve  us  to  a  new  particion,  for  a  shewyth  owre  to  tenentes 
to  tempe  ande  meve  them  to  cry  fore  a  noder  particion,  ande 
to  have  suche  as  plesyth  hym  to  hys  reteyne;  and  therfore, 
but  we  have  the  better  consayle  hyt  woU  cost  moch  mony 
wyth  owt  dowt.  Ther  fore  send  me  suche  evydens  as  may 
dyscharge  and  save  bothe  you  and  me,  wyche  byth  yn  your 
hon  dysposal ;  hyt  hath  coste  me  xls.  for  the  accion  that  he 
hath  take  ayenst  Tomas  Snel  and  Wyllyam  Snell,  for  bycause 
that  T.  Snell  forbede^  Bouryng  ys  tenents  fro  my  wode  yn 
Boter  towne,  which  by  the  alders.  Your  doctor  [daughter]  re- 
commende  hyr  on  to  you  and  prayyt  of  your  dayly  blessyng, 
and  sche  hat  a  son,  bleste  by  God.  Namore  to  you  at  thys 
tymme.     God  have  you  yn  Hys  kepyng. — By  your  Son, 

Roberts  Kylly  grewe. 

1  *  forbede '  repeated  in  MS. 


185 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


1084 

MEMORANDUM! 

Memorandum  to  speke  with  William  Byrde  be  the  same  tokne,  I  came 
home  from  London  to  Norwich  on  Mydsomer  evyn  last  past,  and  the  same 
even  I  cam  home  to  his  howse,  and  brought  hym  ks.  for  a  gyrdyll  off  myn 
that  he  had  in  his  kepyng  for  a  plegge  off  myn ;  and  if  so  be  that  he  wilnat  ley 
out  thes  money,  let  hym  send  me  the  bill  indentyd  off  my  jowellys  closyd  in  a 
letter  with  a  signet  off  myn  that  my  wiff  hath  in  her  keping. 

Endorsed — Vyall. 

1085.8 

ABSTRACTS  2 

The  following  letters  are  probably  all  of  the  time  of 
Henry  vii.  They  are  all  addressed  to  a  Mr.  William 
Paston,  but  perhaps  not  all  to  the  same  person.  The  first 
two  are  apparently  to  William  Paston,  the  brother  of  the 
two  Sir  Johns.  The  third  is  doubtful.  The  last  may  be  to 
the  son  of  the  second  Sir  John. 

1085. — John  Wryght  to  Master  William  Paston  at  Hynnyngham. — Has 
received  from  him  a  bill  with  3J.  6J.,  part  payment  of  the  cotton  russet. 
*  The  rest  we  shall  drink  when  ye  come  to  London.'  Does  not  understand 
Paston's  order  for  other  9  yards.  Does  he  wish  frieze,  cotton  or  plain 
blanket  ? — London,  St.  Catherine's  Even. 

1086. — John  Breton  of  Hadley  to  Master  William  Paston. — Desires  him 
to  be  good  master  to  the  bearer,  *  a  poor  kinsman  of  mine,*  to  whom  my  lord  ^ 
has  written  sharply,  that  he  may  come  before  my  lord  for  his  answer. 

1087. — Petyr  Marham  to  his  master,  William  Pastun. — Desires  his  advice, 
as  Robert  Gaunley,  sometime  his  'prentice,  has  taken  an  action  against  him  at 
the  common  law. 

1088. — William  Ocley  to  Master  William  Paston. — Has  spoken  with 
young  Wyndam  in  Master  Digby's  presence.  He  was  grateful  to  Paston  for 
his  loving  mind  towards  him,  and  said  he  would  receive  *  the  two  riall '  him- 
self, and  buy  no  new  gear  till  he  knew  the  King's  pleasure  touching  his  pardon. 
— London,  3  Sept. 

1  [From  Paston  mss.,  B.M.]  I  cannot  tell  by  whom  this  memorandum  was 
drawn  up,  nor  do  I  know  to  what  it  refers.  But  as  the  MS.  appears  to  belong  to  the 
Paston  collection,  and  is  of  the  period,  I  have  not  thought  it  right  to  omit  it.  The 
name  *  Vyall '  which  is  written  on  the  back  of  the  paper  occurs  in  No.  756. 

2  [From  Paston  MSS.,  B.M.]  3  The  Earl  of  Oxford. 

186 


HENRY  VII 


NOTE  TO  NO.   1016. 

As  stated  in  the  footnote  at  p.  loi,  since  the  above  document  was  in  type  the 
Editor  came  upon  a  complete  copy  of  this  list  of  knights  made  at  the  battle  of  Stoke, 
which,  being  also  more  accurate  than  that  in  Leland's  Collectaneuy  is  here  printed  in 
full.  It  is  apparently  the  original  MS.  of  which  No.  1016  is  a  mutilated  copy,  and  is 
written  on  two  flyleaves  of  the  copy  of  Caxton's  Game  and  Play  of  Chess  in  the  King's 
Library  in  the  British  Museum. 

'The  names  of  the  banerettes  made  at  the  batell  of  Stooke  by  syde  Netjuerke  apon  Trent,  the 
xvj.  day  of  June  the  ijde yer  of  Harry  the  'vij. 

Sir  Gilbert  Talbott,  Sir  John  Cheny.  Sir  William  Stoner. 


Thes  iij.  nver  made  by  fore  the  bataile,  and  after  the  bataile  luer  made  the 

same  day : — 


Sir  John  of  Arundell. 
Sir  Thomas  Cookesay. 
Sir  John  Forteskew. 
Sir  Edmond  Benyngfeld. 


Sir  James  Blount. 
Sir  Ric'  of  Croffte. 
Sir  Humfrey  Stanley. 
Sir  Ric'  Delaber. 


Sir  John  Mortymer. 
Sir  William  Troutbeke. 


Knyghtys  made  at  the  same  bataile  :- 


Sir  1  Audeley,  son 

and  heyre  of  the  Lord 
Audeley. 

Sir  Edward  Norys. 

Sir  Robert  Clyiford. 

Sir  George  Hopton. 

Sir  Robert  of  Broughton. 

Sir  John  Paston. 

Sir  Thomas  Lovell. 

Sir  Humfrey  Savage. 

Sir  Harry  Wyloughby. 

Sir  John  Sabacotys. 

Sir  William  Vampage. 

Sir  Antony  Browne. 

Sir  Ric'  Poole. 

Sir  Thomas  Terell. 

Sir  Ric'  Lews. 

Sir  Thomas  Grey. 

Sir  Nycholas  Vaux. 

Sir  Edwarde  of  Borough. 


Sir  William  Tyrwytt. 
Sir  Ameas  Paullett. 
Sir  William  Troutebeke. 
Sir  Raff  Langforthe. 
Sir  James  Haryngton. 
Sir  Harry  Boulde. 

Sir 2  Devenyshe. 

Sir  William  Redmyll. 
Sir  Gregory  Lovell. 
Sir  Thomas  Blount. 
Sir  Robert  Cheyny. 
Sir  William  Carew. 
Sir  John  Wyndam. 
Sir  Roger  Belyngam. 
Sir  John  a  Mosgrave. 
Sir  George  Nevyll  the 

bas[tard]       of      the 

Tour.3 
Sir  Robert  RatclefF. 
Sir  James  Parker. 


Sir  Edward  Darell. 
Sir  Edward  Pykeryng. 
Sir  Thomas  of  Wolton. 
Sir  William  Sandys. 
Sir  Robert  Brandon. 
Sir  Thomas  a  Poole. 
Sir  Morys  Barkeley. 
Sir  Rauffe  Shyrley. 
Sir  John  Longvyll. 
Sir  William  Litylton. 
Sir    William    Norys    of 

Lancas  .  .  . 
Sir  John  Dygby. 
Sir  Thomas  Hansard. 
Sir  Christofre  Wroughton. 
Sir  Thomas  Lyne. 
Sir  Morys  a  Barow. 


1  Blank  in  ms.     Leland  supplies  the  name  as  Sir  James. 

2  Blank  in  ms.     *  John '  in  Leland. 

2  *  The  bastard  of  the  Tour'  looks  as  if  it  had  been  added  by  the  same  hand  at  a 
later  date. 


187 


APPENDIX 


WILLS 


From  the  Principal  Registry  of  the  Court  of  Probate  at 
Somerset  House,  and  from  the  Diocesan  Registers  at 
Norwich.  For  the  Memoranda  of  the  latter  I  am 
indebted  to  the  kindness  of  Dr.  Jessopp. 


CLEMENT  PASTONi 

Will  of  *  Clemens  Paston  de  Paston,  sanae  mentis,*  etc. 
(no  style  of  Armiger  or  any  other  designation),  a.d.  1419,  June. 

141 9  Leaves  his  soul  to  God,  St.  Margaret,  and  All  Saints;  his  body  to  be 

JUNE  buried  in  the  parish  church  of  St.  Margaret  at  Paston,  between  the  north  door 
and  the  tomb  of  his  wife  Beatrix. 

Legacies — (i)  To  the  High  Altar  (sum  not  named) ;  (2)  To  the  Vicar 
of  Paston  for  tithes,  etc.,  3 j.  4^/. ;  (3 )  For  the  lights  *  Beatge  Margaretae  in 
cancella  .  .  .  coram  ymagine  Beatae  Margaretae,  vj //.  cer.' ;  (4)  *Item, 
luminibus  super  le  Rodelofte  ejusdem  ecclesias,  xij  d* ;  (5)  For  the  reparation, 
etc.  of  the  church,  3^.  4^.;  (6)  To  the  Vicar  of  Bakton  (as  above),  u. ; 
(7)  For  the  repair,  etc.  of  the  Trunch  church,  8^.;  (8)  For  the  repair 
of  Monslee  church,  6^.;  (9)  *Item,  Priori  et  Conventui  de  Bromholm, 
vjj.  viij^. 

The  residue  to  Martha,  *  quae  fuit  uxor  Johannis  Bakton,  sorori  meae,  et 
Willelmo  Paston,  filio  meo,*  that  they  may  pay  his  debts,  make  restitution  for 
any  wrongs  done,  and  expend  the  rest  in  works  of  charity  and  piety  for  the 
good  of  his  own  soul,  that  of  Beatrix,  his  wife,  the  souls  of  his  deceased  parents 
and  benefactors,  *  et  animabus  fidelium  defunctorum.* 

*  [Reg.  Dioces.  Norvic,  Hyming,  f.  51,  b.] 
188 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

Witnesses — *Nich'o  Priori  de  Bromholm,  Rich.  Jernemuth  Monacho,  I419 
Rich.  Vicario  Ecclesiae  de  Paston  pracdicta,  Johanne  Kyng,  capellano,  Roberto  j^jjg 
Gynne,  et  aliis.' 

Proved  at  Norwich,  *  2  Oct.  An.  Dom.  supradicto.' 


2 

r 

WILLIAM  PASTON,  THE  JUDGE  1 

I .— []  Testament.  ]] 

In  Dei  nomine  Amen.  Ego,  Willelmus  Paston  de  Paston,  sanae  mentis  et  1 444 
memorise,  condo  testamentum  meum  in  hunc  modum.  In  primis,  lego  animam  jan.  10 
meam  Omnipotenti  Deo,  Beats  Mariae,  et  omnibus  Sanctis,  et  corpus  meum 
sepeliendum  ad  finem  Australem  altaris  in  Capella  Beatae  Mariae  in  fine  Orientali 
ecclesiae  Cathedralis  Sanctae  Trinitatis,  Norwici.  Et  si  contingat  corpus  meum 
ibidem  sepeliri,  lego  cuilibet  monacho  sacerdoti  ecclesiae  praedictae  qui  singulis 
diebus  aliqua  septimana  per  septem  annos  proximo  sequentes  post  mortem  meam 
missam  de  Spiritu  Sancto  in  capella  praedicta  tempore  celebrationis  summae 
missas  in  eadem  ecclesia  decantaverit,  ad  exorandum  in  eadem  missa  de  Spiritu 
Sancto,  et  in  aliis  divinis  per  ipsum  diebus  illis  factis,  pro  anima  mea  et  anima- 
bus  uxoris  meae,  patrum,  matrum  et  omnium  consanguineorum  et  benefactorum 
nostrorum,  et  omnium  quorum  debitores  sumus,  et  omnium  per  nos  injuriam 
patientium,  et  eorum  omnium  pro  quibus  Deo  est  deprecandum  et  omnium 
fidelium  defunctorum  septem  de  nac'  (?).  Item,  lego  Roberto  nunc  priori 
ecclesiae  Sancti  Andreae  de  Bromholm  quadraginta  solidos ;  et  cuilibet  monacho 
ejusdem  ecclesiae  conventus  de  Bromholm  sex  solidos  et  octo  denarios ;  et 
executoribus  testamenti  Ricardi  Causton,  nuper  vicarii  ecclesiae  de  Paston, 
viginti  solidos  ;  et  executoribus  testamenti  Adae,  nuper  vicarii  ecclesiae  de 
Bakton,  sex  solidos  et  octo  denarios ;  ita  quod  remittant  et  relaxent  in  con- 
scientiis  suis  animabus  praedictis  si  quae  per  earum  aliquam  sibi  debita  fuerint. 
Et  si  hoc  remittere  et  relaxare  recusaverint,  de  praedictis  legatis  nihil  habeant, 
sed  in  omnibus  quae  sibi  per  animas  praedictas  vel  earum  aliquam  deberi  rationa- 
biliter  aut  evidenter,  in  conscientia  vel  aliter,  juxta  discretionem  executorum 
meorum,  aut  majoris  partis  eorundem,  probaverint  aut  verificaverint,  sibi 
satisfaciant  executores  mei.  Residuum  vero  bonoruni  meorum  omnium  non 
legatorum  do  et  lego  Agneti  uxori  meae,  Johanni  filio  meo,  Willelmo  Bakton 
et  Johanni  Damme  de  Sustede,  quos  ordino  et  constituo  executores  hujus  testa- 
menti mei,  ut  ipsi  inde  disponant  pro[ut]]  in  justis  conscientiis  suis  magis 
viderint  Deo  placere  et  animabus  praedictis  prodesse.  In  cujus  rei  testimonium 
praesentibus  sigillum  meum  apposui.  Datum  decimo  die  Januarii  anno  regni 
Regis  Henrici  Sexti  post  Conquestum  vicesimo  secundo.     Hujus  autem  testa- 


[Register  LufFenam,  29.] 

189 


APPENDIX 

1444     menti  mei  venerabilem  in  Christo  patrem  et  dominum,  dominum  Willelmum 
JAN.  10    Lincolniensem  Episcopum  ^  ordino  et  constituo  supervisorem. 

II. — [Last  Willy  31  Jan.  1444.]^ 

Universis  et  singulis  ad  quos  praesens  scriptum  indentatum  pervenerit.  Ego 
Willelmus  Paston  de  Paston  gratias,  reverencias  et  honores.  Cum  diversae 
personaE  ad  usum,  proficuum  et  denominationem  mea  feofFatae  sive  seisitae  existant 
sibi  et  haeredibus  suis  in  feodo  simplici  in  et  de  uno  mesuagio,  uno  molendino, 
et  certis  terris,  tenementis  redditibus  et  serviciis  cum  pertinentiis  in  Paston, 
Bakton,  Edithorp,  Witton,  et  Moneslee,  ac  in  aliis  villis  adjacentibus  in  comitatu 
NorfFolk,  quae  nuper  fuerunt  Clementis  Paston,  patris  mei  jam  defuncti,  cujus 
animae  propitietur  Deus ;  ac  de  certis  terris  et  tenementis,  parcellis  manerii 
vocati  Latymers,  remanentibus  ultra  et  praeter  alia  terras  et  tenementa  parcellas 
dicti  manerii  nomine  meo  adiu^  est  dat'  Priori  et  conventui  ecclesiae  Sancti 
Andreae  de  Bromholm  et  successoribus  suis ;  quam  perquisitionem  praedicti 
prioris  dominus  Rex  nunc  per  literas  suas  perdonavit ;  et  uno  tofto  et  uno 
columbari  et  aliis  terris  et  tenementis  cum  pertinentiis  in  Bakton,  Paston, 
Edithorp,  Witton,  et  Casewik  quae  nuper  fuerunt  Hugonis  atte  Fen  de  Jerne- 
mouthe  ;  et  de  aliis  terris  et  tenementis  in  Paston  et  Bakton  per  praedictos 
priorem  et  conventum  mihi  et  aliis  ad  usum  meum  et  haeredibus  meis  datis  et 
concessis ;  et  de  et  in  uno  mesuagio  et  certis  terris,  tenementis,  redditibus, 
et  serviciis  cum  pertinentiis  in  Estsomerton,  Westsomerton,  He[nnesby  ?], 
Martham,  Wynterton  in  Flegge,  ac  in  aliis  villis  adjacentibus,  et  in  Heigham 
Porter,  Veteri  Bokenham  et  Bokenham  Castell,  in  eodem  comitatu,  tam  ilia 

quas [quam]   ilia  quae  nuper  fuerunt   Galfridi  Somerton, 

avunculi  mei,   videlicet  fratris  Beatricis,  matris  meae  carissimae  jam  defunctae, 

quae Et  in  et  de  manerio  de  Oxenede,  ac 

certis  terris,  tenementis  et  serviciis  in  Oxenede,   Burgh,  Skeyton,  Marsham 

[et  in]  aliis  villis  adjacentibus  cum  pertinentiis 

in  eodem  comitatu,  quae  nuper  fuerunt  Roberti  Salle  militis,  et  Willelmi  Clopton 

militis,  firmarii  (?) sive  aliquorum  vel  alicujus  eorum 

in  eodem  comitatu :  Et  in  et  de  maneriis  de  Marlyngford,  Riston,  Vaux,  et 

Shipd[am] medietate   quatuor   marcatarum,    sive 

medietate  unius  marisci  nuper  Thomae  Ocam  (?)  [cum  pertinentiis]  in  eodem 

comitatu mesuagiis,   ac 

certis  terris,  tenementis,  redditibus  et  serviciis  cum  pertinentiis  in  Estodenham  et 

aliis  v[illi8] in  eodem  comitatu 

Honyngham :   Et  in  et  de  uno  mesuagio  ac  certis  terris 

et  tenementis,  redditibus  et  serviciis in  Wy     .... 

in  comitatu  praedicto  quae  nuper 

1  William  Alnwick,  Bishop  of  Lincoln  from  1436  to  1449.     He  had  been  Bishop 
of  Norwich  before  he  was  presented  to  Lincoln. 

2  [The  ink  in  some  parts  of  this  document  is  so  very  much  faded  that  about  half  of 
each  line  is  almost  or  quite  illegible.] 

3  So  in  MS. 

190 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

fuerunt  Willelmi  Thuxton,  Armigeri,  vocata  Tolyes:  Et 1444 

•  _•     •'     •     ; ..*.*.•.*     •   .*     *     * JAN.  lO 

Ricardi  Doket  in  Carleton  et  aliis  villis  adjacentibus :  Et  in  et  de  duobus     . 

villis   adjacentibus :    Et 

in  et  de  una  pecia  terrae  in  Carleton  vocata  W 

de 

manerio  de  Snaylwell  et  aliis  terris  et  tenementis  quae  quondam  fuerunt  Johannis 

Ac  in  et  de  manerio   de   Stanstede  cum 

pertinentiis  in  comitatu  Suffolk,  et  de  Horwelbury 

continue  absque  aliqua  conditione  collusione  seu  covina,  istis  tamen     .... 

.     mesuagiis,  terris,  tenementis,  redditibus  et  serviciis  praedictis  ultimo     . 

consciencia 

mea,  lege  Dei  et  Angliae  illaesa,  fieri  et  exequi  et  adimpleri 

Sciatis 

me,  praefatum  Willelmum  Paston,  ultimam  voluntatem  de  praemissis     , 

ligenti  deliberacione  declarasse,  fecisse  et  limitasse  juxta  effectum  verborum 
sequentium 

seu  seisitae  et  omnes  alias  personae  quas  in  praedictis 

maneriis,  terris  et  tenementis  vel  aliqua  parcella  eorum  ad 

imposterum   feoffari    contigerit,    haeredes    et    assignati   sui, 

quandocumque  post  mortem  meam ejus  sufficiens  waran- 

tum  in  hac  parte  habentem  racionabiliter  requisitae  fiierint  per  cartas     . 

.     .     .     dum praefatas  Agneti   praedicta   maneria   de 

Oxenede,  Marlyngforde,  Stanstede,  Horwelbury,  et  Sh     .     .     .     dictas  pa     . 

de   Latymers  dictis  priori  et  conventui  minime  datas,  et 

praedicta  mesuagia,  molendinum,  terras  et  tenementa,  quae  fuerunt  praedicti  prioris 
et  conventus,  Roberti  Salle,  Willelmi  Clopton,  Francissae,  Clementis  Paston, 
Hugonis  atte  Fen,  seu  alicujus  eorum,  ac  medietatem  praedictorum  marisci  et 
quatuor  marcatorum  redditus,  in  toto,  per  communem  aestimationem,  ad  valen- 
ciam  centum  librarum  per  annum ;  habenda  et  tenenda  eidem  Agneti  et  assignatis 
suis  ad  totam  vitam  ejusdem  Agnetis :  Ita  quod  eadem  maneria  de  Oxenede, 
Marlyngforde,  Stanstede  et  Horwelbury,  et  terrae  et  tenementa  quae  fuerunt 
Roberti  Salle,  Willelmi  Clopton  et  Francissae,  seu  alicujus  eorum,  cum  perti- 
nentiis, post  mortem  praefatae  Agnetis  remaneant  haeredibus  de  corpore  meo  et 
corpore  praedictae  Agnetis  exeuntibus.  Et  praedicta  manerium  de  Shipdene  et 
parcella  manerii  de  Latymers,  ac  dicta  mesuagia,  molendinum,  terrae  et  tene- 
menta nuper  Clementis  Paston  et  Hugonis  atte  Fen,  seu  alicujus  eorum,  cum 
pertinentiis,  post  mortem  praedictae  Agnetis,  ad  praedictas  personas  feoffatas  seu 
feoffandas,  haeredes  et  assignatos  suos  revertantur,  ad  perficiendam  inde  banc 
ultimam  voluntatem  meam :  Et  si  nullus  extiterit  haeres  de  corpore  meo  et 
corpore  praedictae  Agnetis  exiens,  quod  tunc  post  mortem  ejusdem  Agnetis 
praedictum  manerium  de  Oxenede  et  dicta  terrae  et  tenementa  nuper  praedic- 
torum Roberti  Salle,  Willelmi  Clopton  et  Francissae,  seu  unius  eorum,  cum 
pertinentiis,  ad  prasdictos  feoffatos  et  haeredes    suos   similiter  revertantur,  ad 

191 


APPENDIX 

1444     perficiendam  inde  banc  ultimam  voluntatem  meam.     Et  quod  praedicta  maneria 
JAN.  10    de  Marlyngford,  Stanstede  et  Horwelbury,  cum  pertinentiis,  remaneant  rectis 
hgeredibus    Edmundi    Barry   militis,   patris    praedictse    Agnetis,    imperpetuum. 
Item,  volo   quod   praedictae   personae,    ut   praedicitur,   feofFatae    seu   feofFandae, 
hasredes  seu  assignati  sui,  paciantur  et  permittant  Robertum  Clere,  armigerum, 
Edmundum   Clere,   armigerum,   Johannem    Pagrave,    armigerum,    Willelmum 
Bakton  de  Bakton,  et  Johannem  Damme  de  Sustede,  vel  duos  eorum,  per 
communem  assensum  eorum   quinque,  prasdictum   manerium   de  Snaylwell  et 
praedicta  alia  terras  et  tenementa  in  Snaylwell,  in  toto,  per  communen  estima- 
cionem,  ad  valenciam  quadraginta  marcarum  per  annum,  occupare,  et  exitus  et 
proficua  inde  percipere  et  habere,  a  festo  Sancti  Michaelis  proximo  sequenti  post 
mortem  meam  usque  Edmundus  filius  mens  jam  aetatis  xviij.  annorum  pervenerit 
ad  astatem  xxj.  annorum.     Et  quod  iidem  Robertus  Clere,  Edmundus  Clere, 
Johannes  Pagrave,  Willelmus  Bakton  et  Johannes  Damme,  seu  dicti  duo  eorum, 
viginti  marcas  annuatim  provenientes  de  eisdem  exitibus  et  proficuis,  inter  prae- 
dictum  festum  Sancti  Michaelis  et  dictam  aetatem  praedicti  Edmundi,  filii  mei, 
per  commune  avisamentum  et  assensum  suum  et  praedictae  Agnetis,  annuatim 
distribuant  in  elemosinis  inter  notos,  pauperes  et  debiles,  tam  hospicia  tenentes 
quam  alios  qui  non  vadunt  mendicatum,  et  pro  missis,  sacerdotum  oracionibus, 
et    sufFragiis   devotorum    pauperum    utriusque   sexus,    tam    religiosorum   quam 
aliorum,  celebrandis  et  fiendis,  pro  anima  mea  et  praedictae  Agnetis,  et  animabus 
patrum  et  matrum  nostrorum,   et   omnium    consanguineorum  et  benefactorum 
nostrorum,  et  omnium  quorum  debitores  sumus,  et  omnium  per  nos  injuriam 
patientium,  et  eorum  omnium  pro  quibus  Deo  est  deprecandum,  et  omnium 
fidelium  defunctorum  ;  et  de  eisdem  exitibus  et  proficuis  praedicto  Edmundo, 
filio  meo  quousque  ad  dictam  aetatem  xxj.   annorum  pervenerit,   rationabiles 
victum,  vestitum,  apparatum  et  sustentationem,  juxta  gradus  sui  exigenciam,  sic 
quod  non  superbiat,  inveniant,  et  eum  tam  ad  artis  dialecticae  per  dimidium 
annum,  juris  civilis  per  unum  annum,  ac  juris  regni  Angliae  postea  ad  sufficien- 
ciam,  si  fieri  poterit,  sub  sana  tutela  providenter  ponant,  et  ipsum  in  eisdem 
continuare  et  residere  faciant,  prout  eisdem  melius  visum  fuerit  ipsum  Edmun- 
dum in  hac  parte  sapere  et  intelligere  et  sibi  in  futurum  prodesse  ;  et  domos, 
muros,  aedificia,  et  clausuras  in  eodem  manerio  nostro  existentia  rationabiliter 
reparari  faciant,  et  redditus  et  servicia  et  alia  onera  inde  debita  solvant,  et  hoc 
quod  de  eisdem  exitibus  et  proficuis  ad  dictum  aetatem  dicti  Edmundi  reman- 
serit  juxta  sanas  conscientias  suas  eidem  Edmundo  satisfaciant  tempore  quo 
ipse  juxta  banc  voluntatem  meam  statum  de  eodem  manerio  receperit  et  habuerit. 
Item,  volo  quod  praedictae  personae,  prout  praedicitur,  feofFatae  seu  f[eofFandae], 
haeredes  seu  assignati  sui,  paciantur  et  permittant  prasdictos  Robertum  Clere, 
Edmundum    Clere,    Johannem    Pagrave,   Willelmum    Bakton    et    Johannem 
Damme,   vel  duos  eorum  per    communem   assensum    eorum  quinque,   praedic- 
tum  manerium  de  Beauchamp  et  Hollewelhalle  et  dicta  alia  mesuagia,  terras, 
tenementa,  tofta,   clausuras,   redditus   et   servicia,  quondam    Ricardi   Doket, 
Willelmi  Thuxton,  Johannis  Patgris  senioris,  Johannis  Whynne  et  Eustachii 
Rows,  seu  aliquorum  vel  alicujus  eorum,  in  Wymondham,  Carleton,  Bonnewell, 
Estodenham,  et  aliis  villis  adjacentibus,  per  communem  estimacionem  ad  valen- 
ciam XXV.  marcarum  per  annum  occupare,  et  exitus  et  proficua  inde  percipere 

192 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

et  habere,  a  praedicto  festo  Sancti  Michaelis  usque  Willelmus  filius  meus,  jam  1 444 
aetatis  vij.  annorum,  pervenerit  ad  aetatem  xviij.  annorum  ;  et  quod  iidem  jan.  10 
Robertus  Clere,  Edmundus  Clere,  Johannes  Pagrave,  Willelmus  Bakton  et 
Johannes  Damme,  vel  dicti  duo  eorum,  quinque  marcas  annuatim  provenientes 
de  eisdem  exitibus  per  octo  annos  proximo  sequentes  praedictum  festum  Sancti 
Michaelis,  per  discretionem  et  avisamentum  sua  et  praedictae  Agnetis,  annuatim 
distribuant  inter  pauperes  et  debiles  praedictos  et  [pro]^  missis,  orationibus  et 

sufFragiis   celebrandis   et in   forma 

praedicta,   et   de   eisdem    exitibus   et  proficuis   praedicto   Willelmo   filio   meo 

usque   ad  dictam    aetatem   xviij.    annorum   pervenerit 

statum   et   sustentacionem   juxta   gradus   sui   exigen- 

ciam,  sic  quod  non  superbiat,  inveniant   et   tribuant,  et 

ad  scholas  ponant  et  ibidem  continuare  et  residere  faciant  prout  praedicitur  de 

praedicto  filio  meo  Edmundo,  et  domos,  muros  et  clausuras  et  aedificia  in  diet. 

.     et  tenementis     .     .     .     repararent,  et  redditus  et  servicia  et  alia 

onera  inde  solvant,  et  de  residuo  dictorum  exituum  et  proficuorum  dicto  Willelmo 

filio  meo  satisfaciant statum  de  eisdem  manerio, 

terris  et  tenementis  juxta  hanc  voluntatem  meam 

.     .     .     haeredes  seu  assignati  sui  paciantur  et  permittant  praedictam  Agnetem 

praedicta   mesuagia,    terras    [et]    tenementa    in    Est 

Somerton,  West  Somerton,  Hennesby,  Martham,  et  Wynterton,  tam  ilia  quae 

fuerunt quam  ilia  quae 

de   Reston   in  toto  per   communem  aestimacionem  ad  valenciam  xxv. 

marcarum occupare,  et  exitus  et 

[proficua  ?]  inde  percipere  et  gaudere  a  praedicto  festo  Sancti  Michaelis  usque 

Clemens  filius  meus 

xviij.  annorum ;  et  quod  eadem  Agnes  de  eisdem  exitibus  et  proficuis  praedicto 

Clementi  Paston ad  dictam  aetatem 

xviij.  annorum,  et  Elizabeth  filiae  meae  quousque  maritetur,  racionabiles  victum, 

vestitum, 

.     exigenciam,  sic  quod  non  superbiant,  et  de  eisdem  exitibus  et  proficuis 

nutriatur  honeste 

filiam,  praedictam  Elizabetham,  prout  statui  suo  convenit,  ac  inveniat 
et  ponat  praedictum  Clementem,  filium  meum,  tam  ad  scholas  grammaticales 
quam  alias  et  caeteras  erudiciones,  prout  praedicitur  de  praedictis  fratribus  suis ; 
et  domos,  muros,  clausuras,  et  aedificia  in  eisdem  mesuagio,  terris  et  tenementis 
existentia,  racionabiliter  reparari  faciat,  et  redditus  et  servicia  et  alia  onera  inde 
debita  solvat,  ac  annuatim  quousque  dictus  Clemens,  filius  meus,  ad  dictam 
aetatem  xviij.  annorum  [pervenerit  ?]  ^  distribuat  manu  propria  in  elemosinis,  juxta 
discretionem  suam,  inter  magis  pauperes  et  debiles  creaturas,  in  honore  Quinque 
principalium  Vulnerum  et  Passionis  Domini  nostri  Jesu  Christi,  et  Quinque 
Gaudiorum  Beatae  Mariae  Virginis  et  Matris  ejus,  pro  animabus  praedictis, 
quinque  marcas ;  et  de  hoc  quod  de  eisdem  exitibus  et  proficuis  ad  dictam 
aetatem  praedicti  dementis,  filii  mei,  remanserit,  satisfaciat  eadem  Agnes  juxta 


1  Omitted  in  MS. 
VOL.  VI. —  N  193 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1 444  sanam  conscienciam  suam  eidem  Clementi  tempore  quo  ipse  juxta  banc  volun- 
JAN.  lO  tatem  meam  statum  de  eisdem  manerio,  mesuagiis,  terris,  et  tenementis,  de 
prsedictis  personis  feofFatis  sive  feofFandis  receperit ;  et  quod  dictae  personae 
feofFatas  seu  feofFandae,  haeredes,  seu  assignati  sui,  infra  xl.  dies  proximo  sequentes 
postquam  ipsi  post  festum  Sancti  Michaelis  proximo  post  mortem  meam  per 
Johannem  Paston,  filium  meum  primogenitum,  racionabiliter  fuerint  requisiti, 
per  facta  sua  tripartita  et  indentata,  dimittent,  liberent  et  assignent  praedicto 
Johanni  Paston,  jam  astatis  xx.  annorum  et  amplius,  praedictum  manerium  de 
Gresham  cum  pertinentiis,  habendum  eidem  Johanni  ad  totam  vitam  suam ;  Ita 
quod  si  contingat  prasdictum  Johannem  Paston  aliquem  exitum  vel  haeredem  de 
corpore  Margaretae  nunc  uxoris  suae  procreare,  quod  tunc  idem  manerium  cum 
pertinentiis  post  mortem  ejusdem  Johannis  remaneat  dictae  uxori  suae,  tenendum 
sibi  ad  terminum  vitae  ejusdem  uxoris.  Et  si  prjedictus  Johannes  Paston  nullum 
exitum  vel  hasredem  de  corpore  dictae  uxoris  suas  procreaverit,  tunc  immediate 
post  mortem  ejusdem  Johannis  idem  manerium  cum  pertinentiis  haeredibus 
masculis  de  corpore  meo  exeuntibus  integre  remaneat.  Et  si  nullus  fiierit  haeres 
masculus  de  corpore  meo  exiens,  quod  tunc  idem  manerium  cum  pertinentiis 
integre  remaneat  praedictae  Agneti,  uxori  meae,  habendum  et  tenendum  eidem 
Agneti  ad  totam  vitam  ejusdem  Agnetis ;  Ita  quod  tunc  post  ejusdem  Agnetis 
mortem  idem  manerium  cum  pertinentiis  ad  praedictos  donatores  et  haeredes  suos 
revertatur,  ad  exequendum  et  perficiendum  inde  banc  voluntatem  meam.  Et 
quod  easdem  personae  feoffatae  seu  feofFandae,  haeredes  seu  assignati  sui,  infra  xl. 
dies  proximo  sequentes  postquam  ipsi,  post  festum  Sancti  Michaelis  proximo 
post  mortem  meam,  et  postquam  praedictus  Edmundus,  filius  meus,  fuerit  aetatis 
xxj.  annorum  plenarie  completorum,  racionabiliter  fuerint  requisitae,  per  con- 
similia  facta  dimittant,  liberent  et  assignent  prasdicto  Edmundo,  filio  meo, 
praedictum  manerium  de  Snaylwell,  et  praedicta  terras  et  tenementa  nuper 
Johannis  Langham  de  Snaylwell,  in  Snaylwell,  ac  dictam  reversionem 
manerii  de  Shipdene  et  prasdictarum  parcellarum  manerii  de  Latymers, 
dictis  priori  et  conventui  minime  data,^  ac  dictorum  mesuag',  molendini, 
terrarum  et  tenementonim  quae  fuerunt  praedictorum  prioris  et  conventus,  ac 
dementis,  patris  mei,  et  Hugonis  atte  Fen,  aut  unius  eorum,  post 
mortem  praedictae  Agnetis,  habenda  et  tenenda  eidem  Edmundo  et  haeredibus 
masculis  de  corpore  ipsius  Edmundi  exeuntibus.  Et  si  contingat  ipsum 
Edmundum  sine  haerede  masculo  de  corpore  suo  exeunte  obire,  quod  tunc  eadem 
manerium,  terrae,  tenementa  et  reversio  cum  pertinentiis  haeredibus  de  corpore 
ejusdem  Edmundi  exeuntibus  remaneant.  Et  si  nuHus  fuerit  haeres  de  corpore 
praedicti  Edmundi  exiens,  quod  tunc  eadem  manerium,  terrae,  tenementa  et 
reversio  remaneant  haeredibus  de  corpore  meo  exeuntibus.  Et  si  nullus  fuerit 
haeres  de  corpore  meo  exiens,  quod  tunc  praedicta  reversio  ad  predictos  donatores 
et  haeredes  suos  revertatur,  et  praedictum  manerium  de  Snaylwell,  terrae  et 
tenementa,  cum  pertinentiis,  remaneant  praedictae  Agneti  ad  totam  vitam  suam. 
Ita  quod,  post  ejus  mortem,  idem  manerium  cum  pertinentiis  ad  praedictos 
donatores  et  haeredes  suos  similiter  revertatur,  ad  perficiendum  et  perimplendum 
hanc  voluntatem  meam.  Et  quod  eaedem  personae  feofFatae  seu  feofFandae, 
haeredes  seu  assignati  sui,  infra  xl.  dies  proximo  sequentes  post  festum  Sancti 

*  Sic  in  origine. 
194 


APPENDIX 

Michaelis  proximo  post  mortem  meam,  et  postquam  prasdictus  Willelmus  filius  1 444 
meus  fuerit  aetatis  xviij.  annorum  plenarie  completorum,  racionabiliter  fuerint  j^^j^,  jq 
requisitge,  per  consimilia  facta  dimittant,  liberent  et  assignent  prsedicto  Willelmo 
filio  meo,  prsedicta  maneria  de  Hollewelhalle  et  Beauchamp,  et  dicta  mesuagia, 
terras  et  tenementa,  redditus  et  servicia  nuper  Willelmi  Thuxston  Armigeri, 
Ricardi  Doket,  Eustachii  Rows  et  Johannis  Patgrys,  seu  unius  eorum,  in 
Estodenham,  Wymondeham,  Carleton,  Bonewell,  et  aliis  villis  adjacentibus, 
habenda  et  tenenda  eidem  Willelmo  et  haeredibus  de  corpore  suo  exeuntibus. 
Et  si  contingat  ipsum  Willelmum  sine  haerede  de  corpore  suo  exeunte  obire, 
quod  tunc  eadem  maneria,  terrae,  tenementa,  redditus  et  servicia,  cum  pertinentiis, 
remaneant  Clementi  Paston,  filio  meo,  et  haeredibus  de  corpore  suo  exeuntibus. 
Et  si  idem  Clemens  obierit  sine  haerede  de  corpore  suo  exeunte,  eadem  maneria, 
terrae,  tenementa,  redditus  et  servicia  cum  pertinentiis  remaneant  dictae  Agneti  ad 
totam  vitam  suam.  Ita  quod  post  ejus  mortem  eadem  maneria,  terrae  et  tene- 
menta cum  pertinentiis  ad  prasfatos  donatores  et  haeredes  suos  revertantur,  ad 
implendum  et  perficiendum  inde  banc  voluntatem  meam.  Et  quod  praedictae 
personae  [feoffatae]]  seu  feoflPandas  infra  quadraginta  dies  proximo  sequentes  post 
festum  Sancti  Michaelis  postquam  praedictus  Clemens  filius  meus  post  mortem 
meam  fuerit  aetatis  xviij.  annorum  plenarie  completorum  racionabiliter  fuerint 
requisitae  per  consimilia  facta  dimittant,  liberant  et  assignent  praedicto  Clementi 
filio  meo  praedictum  manerium  de  Ryston,  et  prasdicto  mesuagia,  terras,  tene- 
menta, redditus  et  servicia  cum  pertinentiis  in  Est  Somerton,  West  Somerton, 
et  aliis  villis  adjacentibus  et  in  Heigham  Potter,  Bokenham  et  Bokenham  Castell, 
habenda  et  tenenda  eidem  Clementi  filio  meo  et  haeredibus  de  corpore  suo 
exeuntibus.  Et  si  contingat  ipsum  Clementum  filium  meum  obire  sine  haerede 
de  corpore  suo  exeunte,  quod  tunc  eadem  manerium,  mesuagia,  terrae,  tenementa, 
redditus  et  servicia  remaneant  praedicto  Willelmo,  filio  meo  et  haeredibus  de 
corpore  suo  exeuntibus.  Et  si  contingat  ipsum  Willelmum  sine  haerede  de 
corpore  suo  exeunte  obire,  quod  tunc  eadem  manerium,  mesuagia,  terrae,  tene- 
menta, redditus  et  servicia  cum  pertinentiis  remaneant  haeredibus  de  corpore  meo 
exeuntibus.  Et  si  nullus  fuerit  de  corpore  meo  exiens,  quod  tunc  eadem 
manerium,  mesuagia  terrae  et  tenementa  cum  pertinentiis  remaneant  praedictae 
Agneti,  tenenda  sibi  ad  totam  vitam  suam.  Ita  quod  eadem  manerium,  mesuagia, 
terrae  et  tenementa,  cum  pertinentiis,  post  mortem  praedictae  Agnetis,  ad  praedictos 
donatores  et  haeredes  suos  revertantur  ad  perficiendum  inde  hanc  voluntatem 
meam.  Item  ad  amorem  et  favorem  inter  praedictos  Johannem,  Edmundum, 
Willelmum,  et  Clementem  filios  meos  et  praedictam  Elizabeth  et  praefatos 
haeredes  suos,  eorumque  mutuam  caritatem  hinc  inde  nutriendum  (?)  et  amplifi- 
candum,  volo  et  ordino  per  prassentes  quod  si  aliqua  terrae  seu  tenementa,  sibi 
*  aut  eorum  alicui,  per  praedictas  personas  feoffatas  seu  feofFandas  vel  eorum 
haeredes  vel  assignatos  in  forma  praedicta  per  dona  et  concessiones,  immediate, 
in  feodo  talliato  seu  alio  statu,  per  remanere  aut  alio  quovis  modo,  danda  seu 
concedenda,  versus  praedictos  Johannem,  Edmundum,  Willelmum  et  Clementem, 
filios  meos,  et  praedictam  Elizabeth  aut  haeredes  suos  praedictos  absque  culpa  * 

recuperentur,  vel  aliqua  inde  parcella  recuperetur,  vel  status  eorum  inde  adnihil- 
etur,  quod  infra  unum  annum  proximo  tunc  sequentem  residui  eorum  de  porcionibus 
suis  terrarum  et  tenementorum  praedictorum,  ut  praedicitur,  sibi  dandorum  et 

195 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1444  concessorum,  juxta  ratam  annui  valoris  earundem  portionum  suarum,  debitam 
JAN.  10  faciant  recompensacionem  casteris  eorum  de  quorum  porcionibus  dictas  recupera- 
ciones  vel  status  adnihilaciones  fieri  contigerit.  Ita  quod  onus  perdicionis  in 
hac  parte,  si  quod  evenerit  inter  ipsos  juxta  ratam  annui  valoris  portionum  suarum 
uniformis  sit  et  aequalis.  Item,  ad  finem  quod  iste  articulus  praesentis  voluntatis 
meae  proximo  praecedens  per  praedictos  Johannem,  Edmundum,  Willelmum  et 
Clementem,  filios  meos,  ac  prasdictam  Elizabetham  et  haeredes  suos  praedictos 
sufficiencius  et  plenius  exequatur,  et  quod  dicta  dona  et  concessiones  immediate 
vel  per  remanere  in  feodo  talliato  vel  alio  statu,  ut  praedicitur,  sibi  faciendo  per 
eorum  facta,  feofFamenta,  cartas,  scripta,  vel  alio  modo  non  discontinuarentur, 
volo  et  ordino  quod  prasdictae  personae  feofFatae  seu  feofFandae  eorum  haeredes  et 
assignati,  antequam  ipsi  aliquem  statum  de  praedictis  terris  et  tenementis  aut 
parcella  inde  praedictis  Johanni,  Edmundo,  Willelmo  et  Clementi,  filiis  meis, 
et  praedictae  Elizabeth  et  haeredibus  suis  praedictis,  seu  eorum  alicui,  faciant,  per 
scriptum  suum  indentatum  dent  et  concedant  praedicto  Edmundo,  filio  meo, 
unum  annuum  redditum  triginta  librarum  legalis  monetae,  habendum  et  percipien- 
dum  eidem  Edmundo  et  haeredibus  suis  masculis  de  corpore  suo  exeuntibus  de 
praedicto  manerio  de  Gresham  ad  festa  Paschae  et  Sancti  Michaelis  aequis 
portionibus,  una  cum  sufficienti  clausula  districtionis  in  dicto  manerio  fiendae  pro 
non  solucione  ejusdem  annui  redditus  sub  forma  et  condicionibus  subsequentibus : 
videlicet,  quod  praedictus  annuus  redditus  sit  et  remaneat  in  suspenso  et  non 
levetur,  solvatur,  nee  percipiatur  quovismodo,  quousque  dictus  Johannes  Paston 
vel  aliquis  haeres  suus  masculus  de  corpore  suo  exiens  aliquod  donum  sive  con- 
cessionem,  immediate  vel  per  remanere,  in  feodo  talliato  vel  alio  statu,  de  manerio 
praedicto  cum  pertinentiis  eidem  Johanni  fiendum,  per  factum,  feofFamentum, 
cartam  vel  scriptum,  seu  alio  modo,  in  parte  vel  toto,  discontinuaverit  seu  dis- 
continuari  fecerit,  vel  quousque  praedictus  Johannes  Paston,  vel  aliquis  haeres 
suus  masculus  de  corpore  suo  exiens,  praedictum  articulum  praesentis  voluntatis 
meae  sic  incipiendum  *  Item  ad  amorem  et  favorem,'  &c.  in  aliqua  ex  parte  sua 
perimplendo  infregerit,  non  perfecerit,  vel  non  observaverit,  vel  sic  tam  omnibus 
et  singulis  quibus  aliquod  donum  sive  concessio,  immediate  vel  per  remanere,  in 
feodo  talliato  vel  in  aliquo  alio  statu,  de  praedicto  manerio  cum  pertinentiis  dicto 
Johanni  Paston  vel  alicui  haeredum  de  corpore  suo  exeuntium  per  praedictas 
personas  feofFatas  seu  feoffandas,  haeredes  seu  assignatos  suos,  in  forma  praedicta 
fiendum  per  praedictum  Johannem  Paston  vel  aliquem  haeredum  suorum  prae- 
dictorum  discontinuatum  fuerit  non  legitime  recontinuatum,  quam  omnibus  et 
singulis  annis  quibus  articulus  praedictus  praesentis  voluntatis  meae  sic  incipiens 
*  Item  ad  amorem  et  favorem,'  &c.  per  praedictum  Johannem  Paston  vel  aliquem 
haeredum  suorum  praedictorum  in  aliquo  ex  parte  sua  perimplendo  confractus, 
non  tentus,  aut  non  impletus,  fuerit  non  debite  reformatus.  Et  per  consimile 
factum  suum  indentatum  dent  et  concedant  praedicto  Willelmo  filio  meo  unum 
annuum  redditum  triginta  librarum  consimilis  monetae  habendum  et  percipiendum 
annuatim  praedicto  Willelmo  et  haeredibus  suis  de  corpore  suo  exeuntibus  a 
tempore  quo  praedictus  Johannes  filius  meus  mortuus  fuerit  sine  haerede  masculo 
de  tempore  ^  suo  exeunte  de  praedicto  manerio  de  Gresham  cum  pertinentiis  ad 

^  So  in  MS. 
196 


APPENDIX 

festa  praedicta  acquis  portionibus,  una  cum  sufficienti  clausula  districtionis  in  1 444 
eodem  manerio  fiendae  pro  non  solutione  ejusdem  annui  redditus  sub  forma  et  j^^,  jq 
conditionibus  scquentibus,  videlicet,  quod  idem  annuus  redditus  sit  et  remaneat 
in  suspenso  et  non  levetur  nee  solvatur,  aut  percipiatur  quovismodo  quousque 
praedictus  Johannes  Paston,  vel  Edmundus  Paston,  vel  aliquis  haeres  masculus 
de  corpore  alicujus  eorum  exiens,  aliquod  donum  sive  concessionem,  immediate 
vel  per  remanere,  in  feodo  talliato  vel  in  alio  statu,  de  eodem  manerio  cum 
pertinentiis,  aut  parcella  inde,  eidem  Johanni  vel  Edmundo  liendum,  per  factum, 
feofFamentum,  cartam,  vel  scriptum,  seu  alio  modo,  in  parte  aut  toto,  discon- 
tinuaverit  seu  discontinuari  fecerit,  vel  quousque  aliquis  eorum  praedictum 
articulum  praesentis  voluntatis  mesesic  incipientum  *Item  ad  amorem  et  favorem,* 
&c.  in  aliquo  ex  parte  sua  perimplendo  infregerit,  non  perfecerit,  vel  non 
observaverit.  Et  per  consimile  factum  suum  indentatum  dent  et  concedant 
praedicto  Clementi,  filio  meo,  unum  annuum  redditum  triginta  librarum  consimilis 
monetae,  habendum  et  annuatim  percipiendum  praedicto  Clementi,  filio  meo,  et 
haeredibus  de  corpore  suo  exeuntibus  a  tempore  quo  uterque  praedictorum 
Johannis  Paston  et  Edmundus  (sic)  Paston  mortuus  fuerit  sine  haerede  masculo 
de  corpore  suo  exeunte  de  praedicto  manerio  ^  de  Gresham  ad  festa  praedicta 
acquis  porcionibus,  una  cum  clausula  districtionis  in  forma  praedicta,  sub  forma 
et  condicionibus  subsequentibus,  videlicet,  quod  idem  annuus  redditus  sit  et 
remaneat  in  suspenso,  et  non  levetur,  solvatur  nee  percipiatur  quovismodo, 
quousque  praedictus  Johannes  Paston,  vel  praedictus  Edmundus  Paston,  vel 
aliquis  masculus  de  corpore  alicujus  eorum  exiens,  vel  praedictus  Willelmns 
Paston,  filius  mens,  vel  aliquis  haeres  de  corpore  suo  exiens,  aliquod  donum  sive 
concessionem,  immediate  vel  per  remanere,^  in  feodo  talliato  vel  alio  statu,  dicto 
Johanni  Paston,  Edmundo  Paston,  vel  Willelmo  Paston,  filiis  meis,  vel  eorum 
alicui  fiendum  per  feofFamentum,  cartam  vel  scriptum,  seu  alio  modo,  in  parte 
aut  toto  discontinuaverit,  seu  discontinuari  fecerit,  vel  quousque  aliquis  eorum 
praedictum  articulum  praesentis  voluntatis  meae  sic  incipientem  *  Item  ad  amorem,' 
&c.  in  aliquo  ex  parte  sua  perimplendo  infregerit,  non  fecerit,  vel  non  observa- 
verit. Et  per  consimile  factum  suum  indentatum  dent  et  concedant  praedictae 
Elizabeth  unum  annuum  redditum  triginta  librarum  consimilis  monetae,  haben- 
dum et  percipiendum  eidem  Elizabeth  et  haeredibus  de  corpore  suo  exeuntibus 
a  tempore  quo  uterque  praedictorum  Johannis  et  Edmundi  filiorum  meorum 
mortuus  erit  sine  haerede  masculo  de  corpore  suo  exeunte,  et  uterque  praedictorum 
Willelmi  et  Clementis,  filiorum  meorum,  mortuus  fuerit  sine  haerede  de  corpore 
suo  exeunte  de  praedicto  manerio  de  Gresham  ad  festa  prsdicta  aequis  porcioni- 
bus, una  cum  clausula  districtionis  in  forma  praedicta,  forma  et  condicionibus  \ 
subsequentibus,  videlicet,  quod  idem  annuus  redditus  sit  et  remaneat  in  suspenso 
et  non  levetur,  solvatur,  nee  percipiatur  quovismodo,  quousque  praedictus  Johannes 
Paston  aut  praedictus  Edmundus  Paston,  vel  aliquis  haeres  masculus  de  corpore 
alicujus  eorum  exiens,  vel  quousque  praedictus  Willelmus  Paston  seu  praedictus 
Clemens,  filii  mei,  vel  aliquis  haeres  de  corpore  alicujus  eorum  exiens     . 

sive  concessionem,  immediate  vel  per  remanere,  in  feodo  talliato  vel 


1  de  praedicto  manerio.     These  words  are  repeated  in  the  MS. 

2  vel  per  remanere,  repeated  in  MS. 

197 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1444  alio  statu,  dictis  Johanni  Paston,  Edmundo  Paston,  Willelmo  Paston,  et  (?) 
JAN.  10  Clementi  Paston,  vel  alicui  eorum,  fiendum,  per  factum,  feofFamentum,  cartam 
vel  scriptum,  seu  alio  modo,  in  parte  aut  toto  ....  manerio 
.  .  discontinuari  fecerit,  vel  quousque  aliquis  eorum  praedictum  articulum 
praEsentis  voluntatis  meae  sic  incipientem  *  Item  ad  amorem,'  &c.  in  aliquo  ex 
parte  sua  perimplendo  infregerit,  non  perfecerit,  vel  non  observaverit.  Item, 
volo  quod  [^si  ?J  aliquis  praedictorum  Johannis,  Edmundi,  Willelmi,  et  Clementis, 
filiorum  meonim,  ante  dictam  aetatem  suam  xviij.  annorum  obierit,  quod  tunc 
prasdictae  personae  feofFatae  seu  feofFandae,  eorum  hasredes  et  assignati,  patiantur 
et  permittant  prasdictos  Robertum  Clere,  Edmundum  Clere,  Johannem  [Pagrave], 
Willelmum  Bakton,  et  Johannem  Damme,  vel  duos  eorum  per  communem 
assensum  eorum  quinque,  praedictam  porcionem  terrarum  et  tenementorum  prae- 
dicto  sic  obeunti,  ut  praedictum  est,  dandam  et  concedendam  occupare  et  exitus 
et  proficua  inde  percipere  et  habere  quousque  illi  qui  proxime  post  mortem  dicti 
sic  obeuntis  juxta  efFectum  prassentis  voluntatis  dictam  portionem  haberet  et 
teneret  fuerit  aetatis  xviij.  annorum  plene  completorum,  et  tunc  infra  quadraginta 
dies  proximo  tunc  sequentes  postquam  racionabiliter  fuerint  requisiti,  per  scripta 
sua  indentata  dimittant,  liberent,  et  assignent  eandem  porcionem  cum  pertinentiis 
ipsi  qui,  ut  praedicitur,  tunc  juxta  hanc  voluntatem  meam  porcionem  illam  haberet 
et  teneret,  habendam  et  tenendam  sibi  in  forma  praedicta.  Et  si  praedicti 
Robertus  Clere,  Edmundus  Clere,  Johannes  Pagrave,  Willelmus  Bakton,  et 
Johannes  Damme,  vel  dicti  duo  eorum  eadem  exitus  et  proficua  disponant  et 
distribuant  in  solucione  debitorum  quae  me  debere  contingat,  et  reformacione  et 
satisfactione  mesprisionum  et  extortionum,  si  quas  fecerim,  et  pro  animabus 
praedictis  in  forma  praedicta  per  discretionem  praedictas  Agnetis  et  executorum 
meorum.  Item,  volo  quod  praedicta  Elizabeth  fijia  mea  habeat  ducentas  libras 
legalis  monetae  ad  maritagium  suum  si  ipsa  per  avisamentum  praedictae  Agnetis  et 
executorum  meorum  maritetur.  Proviso  semper  quod  eadem  Elizabeth  pari 
sexu  et  astate  in  bona  et  competenti  consanguinitatis  linea  maritata  sit,  et  per 
maritagium  illud  habeat  statum  sufficientem  et  securum  in  lege. sibi  et  viro  suo  et 
haeredibus  de  corporibus  suis  exeuntibus,  si  fieri  potent,  seu  saltern  ad  totam 
vitam  suam,  in  terris  et  tenementis  valoris  quadraginta  librarum  per  annum  ad 
minus.  Et  si  eadem  Elizabeth  antequam  maritata  fuerit,  obierit,  quod  tunc 
dictae  pecuniae  summa  pro  maritagio  ejus  limitata  in  solucione  debitorum  quae  me 
debere  contingat,  et  in  reformacione  et  satisfactione  mesprisionum  et  extorcionum, 
si  quas  fecerim,  et  pro  animabus  praedictis  fideliter  distribuatur,  per  discretionem 
praedictae  Agnetis  et  executorum  meorum.  In  cujus  rei  testimonium  ego 
praefatus  Willelmus  Paston  praesentibus  sigillum  meum  apposui.  Datum  tricesimo 
primo  die  Januarii  anno  regni  Regis  Henrici  Sexti  post  Conquestum  vicesimo 
secundo. 

Probata  fuerunt  praedicta  testamentum  et  ultima  voluntas  coram  nobis, 
Alexandro  Prowet,  decretorum  inceptore,  ac  reverendissimi  in  Christo  patris 
et  domini,  domini  Johannis,  permissione  Divina  Cantuariensis  archiepiscopi 
commissario  generali,  &c.,  vicesimo  quarto  die  mensis  Novembris  anno  Domini 
millesimo  CCCC"'°  xliiij^°  et  legitime  pronunciatum  pro  eisdem,  administratioque 
omnium  bonorum  &c.  honestae  mulieri,  Agneti,  relictae  dicti  defuncti,  primitus 
198 


APPENDIX 

protestanti  (et  protestata  fuit  palam,  publice  et  expresse,  judicialiter  coram  1 444 
nobis  quod  voluit  agere  et  petere  partem  sibi  de  jure  et  consuetudine  in  hac  j^n.  10 
parte  debitam,  in  casu  quo  praefatus  defunctus  in  testamento  sive  ultima  voluntate 
quoad  aequivalenciam  partis  hujusmodi  minime  ordinavit  et  disposuit),  ac  discretis 
viris  Johanni,  filio  dicti  defuncti  dum  vixit,  Willelmo  Bakton  et  Johanni 
Damme,  executoribus  in  eodem  testamento  nominatis,  sub  forma  protestationis 
dictae  Agnetis  commissa  extitit  in  debita  juris  forma ;  ac  praefati  executores 
habent  crastinum  Purificationis  Beatae  Mariae  Virginis  proximo  futurum  ad  exhi- 
bendum  inventarium  &c.  ex  praefixione  nostra. 


3 

JOHN  PYRKEi 

Will  of  John  Pyrke,  Rector  of  St.  Michael  and  St.  Peter's, 

Long  Stratton 

Leaves  to  John  Paston,  Esquire,  *unam  cistam  rubram  de  sp    .    .    .    .    ,'      1 47  9 
and  some  other  articles. 

Executors,  John  Paston,  Esquire,  and  William  Martin  of  Long  Stratton, 
each  to  have  for  his  trouble  vjj-.  viij^. 

Date  of  will,  8  Sept.  1479.  Proved  13  Nov.  1479  by  John  Paston 
alone. 

+ 

ROBERT  PASTON  OF  WIVETON2 

In  Dei  nomine.  Amen.  Quarto  die  Septembris  Anno  Doigaini  Millesimo  14S2 
CCCC^^'lxxxij",  Ego  Robertus  Paston  de  Wyveton,  compos  mentis  et  sanae  sept.  4 
memoriae  meae  existens,  condo  testamentum  meum  sive  ultimam  meam  volun- 
tatem  in  hunc  modum :  In  primis,  lego  animam  meam  Deo  Omnipotent!  et 
Beatae  Mariae  Virgini  et  Omnibus  Sanctis,  corpusque  meum  sepeliendum  ubi- 
cunque  Deus  disposuerit.  Item,  lego  summo  altari  de  Weveton  praedicto  pro 
decimis  meis  oblitis  et  male  compensatis,  xxd.  Item,  Gildae  Beatae  Mariae 
ibidem,  xij^/.  Item,  Gildae  Sancti  Johannis  Baptistae  ibidem,  xij^.  Item, 
lumini  super  pelvem  coram  Crucifixo  ibidem,  viij^^.  Item,  lego  lumini  de  ie 
Torchys   ibidem,  vjJ.     Item,  reparacioni   capellae   Beatae   Mariae  in   cimiterio 

1  rNorwich  Episcop.  Reg.,  16.] 

2  [Norwich  Archdeaconry  Reg.,  vol.  i.  f.  29,  b.]  [I  do  not  know  whether  this 
Robert  Paston  was  at  all  nearly  related  to  the  family,  whose  correspondence  is  con- 
tained in  these  volumes  j  but  this  will  and  the  will  of  his  wife  Margaret,  which 
follows,  are  interesting  in  themselves,  and  deserve  a  place,  even  on  account  of  the 
testator's  surname.] 

199 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS* 

1482  ibidem,  v]d.  Item,  campanis  in  campanili  ibidem,  viij^.  Item,  reparacioni 
SEPT.  4  capellae  Sanctae  Trinitatis  super  Pontem,  vj^.  Item,  volo  quod  Margaretta 
uxor  mea  habeat  sibi  et  assignatis  suis  meam  partem  cujusdam  navis  vocatae  le 
Gylys,  cum  omni  apparatu  praedictas  parti  navis  pertinenti  et  praedictam  partem 
navis  praedicta  Margareta  sumptibus  suis  reparabit.  Item,  volo  quod  praedicta 
Margareta  uxor  mea  habeat  ad  terminam  vitae  suae  messuagium  meum  cum 
omnibus  pertinentiis,  commoditatibus,  utensilibus,  et  necessariis  praedicto  messua- 
gio  concernentibus ;  et  post  decessum  prasdictae  Margaretae  volo  ut  praedictum 
messuagium  meum  vendetur,  et  de  pecunia  inde  proveniente  volo  quod  Alicia 
filia  mea  ad  conjugium  semen  habeat  v.  marcas  :  Et  si  contingat  quod  praedicta 
Alicia  obiret  antequam  conjuncta  fuerit,  tunc  volo  quod  praedictas  marcas  execu- 
tores  disponant  in  operibus  caritatis  in  ecclesia  Wyveton  praedicto     .... 

Item,  volo  cum  residua  pecuniae  de  praedicto  messuagio 

provenientis ad  celebrandum  in  ecclesia  de  Weveton 

praedicta   pro    anima   mea   et    anima  dictae   Margaretae    [&c.] 

Et  requiro  in  nomine  Jesu  feofFatos  meos  ut  ipsi  faciant  legitimum 
statum  ei  vel  eis  qui  messuagium  praedictum  adquirere  voluerit  aut  voluerint  sine 
contradictione  sive  impedimento  aliquibus.  Item,  lego  Willelmo  Wynterton, 
iijj.  i\\]d.  Item,  lego  negoti  meo  [no  name^  unam  togam,  unam  deploidam, 
unum  par  caligarum  ad  disposicionem  Margaretae  uxoris  meae. — The  rest  of  his 
goods  to  be  disposed  of  by  his  executors  at  their  discretion  for  the  good  of  his 
soul. 

Executors — his  wife  Margaret  and  Edmund  Shotery,  clerk. 
Proved  at  Cley,  9  Oct.  1482. 


5 

MARGARET  PASTON  1 

1484  Ij^  ^^i  nomine.  Amen.     Ego,  Margareta  Paston  de  Weveton,  vidua,  bonae 

memoriae  existens  die  Lune  xx.  post  Dominicam  in  Albis^  anno  Domini  nostri 
1484*°,  condo  testamentum  meum  ac  ultimam  voluntatem  in  hunc  modum.  In 
primis,  lego  et  commendo  animam  meam  Deo  Omnipotenti,.  Redemptori  meo, 
Beatae  Marias  Virgini,  et  Omnibus  Sanctis  celestis  curiae,  corpus  quemeum 
sepeliendum  in  cimiterio  ecclesiae  Beatae  [no  name]  de  Weveton  praedicta,  cujus 
summo  altari  lego  pro  decimis  meis  non  solutis,  xx^.  Item,  lego  fraternitati 
Gildae  Sancti  Joannis  Baptistae  unum  pannum  le  drapre.  Item,  lego  pictuis 
(j/r)  porticae  ejusdem  ecclesiae,  xiijj.  iv^.,  quae  summa  remanet  in  manibus 
Johannis  Andrews.  Item,  lego  emendacioni  ecclesiae  praedictae,  iijj".  iv^. 
Item,  reparacioni  campanarum  ibidem,  y]d.     Item,  lego  lumini  Altaris,  iiij//. 

1  [Norwich  Archdeaconry  Reg.,  vol.  i.  f.  76,  a.] 

2  So  in  MS.,  but  the  date  would  be  more  intelligible  without  the  numeral  *xx.* 
Dominica  in  Albis  means  sometimes  Whitsunday,  sometimes  the  Sunday  after  Easter. 
The  Monday  following  would  in  the  one  case  be  7  June,  in  the  other  19  April,  in 
1484. 

200 


APPENDIX 

Item,  lumini  le  Torchys,  v]d.  Item,  lego  reparacioni  capellae  Beatae  Mariae  1 4  84 
ibidem,  \]ci.  Item,  lego  fraternitati  Beatae  Mariae  de  Salthous,  xx^.,  et 
Summo  Altari  ibidem,  xij^.  Item,  reparacioni  campanarum  ibidem,  iiij^. 
Item,  lumini  Aratrub*m  (?),  ivd.  Item,  volo  quod  messuagium  meum  cum 
omnibus  terris  dicto  messuagio  pertinentibus  vendatur  per  meos  executores, 
et  summa  pecuniae  inde  (^sic)  dispensatur  per  eosdem  in  celebratione  missarum 
per  bonum  presbyterum  scolarem  celebratorem  in  ecclesia  Beatas  Marias  de 
Weveton  prasdicta  pro  anima  mea  et  animabus  omnium  parentum  et  benefac- 
torum  meorum.  Item,  lego  Aliciae  Bastard  quinque  marcas  de  dicto  messuagio 
receptas.  Et  si  contigerit  ipsum  Aliciam  discedere  ab  hac  luce,  tunc  volo  quod 
Alicia  filia  mea  habeat  inde  33^.  4^.,  et  residuum  remaneat  executoribus  meis. 
Item,  volo  quod  feofFati  mei  deliberent  totam  seisinam  et  possessionem  de  et  in 
messuagio  praedicto,  cum  omnibus  suis  pertinentiis  [^bloQ  qui  requisiti  fuerint 
per  executores  meos.  Residuum  omnium  bonorum  meorum  non  legatorum  do 
et  lego  et  concedo  meis  executoribus  ut  ipsi  ordinent  et  disponant  pro  salute 
animae  mex  et  animabus  benefactorum  meorum,  prout  melius  Deo  Omnipotent! 
placeat,  quos  ordino  et  constituo  Edmundum  Shortere,  clericum  et  Johannem 
Say  meos  executores  et  legitimos  attornatos.  In  cujus  rei  testimonium  prae- 
sentibus  sigillum  apposui. 

Proved  at  Cley,  14  June,  anno  prasdicto. 

6 

DAME  ELIZABETH  BROWNE  1 

In  Dei  nomine.  Amen.     The  xviijth'  day  of  the  moneth  of  May  in  the      ^4^7 
yere  of  Our  Lord  God  m'cccclxxxvij.  and  in  the  secund  yere  of  the  reign  of    may  18 
King  Henry  the  vij.     I,  Dame  Elisabeth  late  wife  of  Sir  George  Brown, 
Knyght,  being  of  hoole  mynde  and  in  good  memorye,  thanked  be  Allmyghty 
God,  make  and  ordeign  this  my  present  testament  and  last  will  yn  maner  and 
forme  folowing,  that  is  to  say : — 

First.  I  bequeith  my  soul  to  Allmyghty  God,  Our  Lady  Saint  Mary  and 
to  all  the  Holy  Company  of  Hevon ;  and  my  body  to  be  buried  withyn  the 
churche  of  the  Blak  Freris  within  Ludgate  with  my  forsaid  housband  Sir 
George;  to  the  whiche  place  I  bequeith  xxj/i.  for  my  said  housbandes  soul 
and  myne,  our  fadres  and  modres  soules  and  for  all  Cristen  soules  to  be  praid 
for.  And  for  xiij.  trentalles  of  Saint  Gregory  to  be  said  and  songyn  for  us 
and  thaym  by  the  freris  of  the  said  place,  as  in  diriges  and  masses  with  all 
other  observaunces  belonging  to  the  same,  in  maner  and  forme  folowing ;  That 
is  to  wete,  in  the  day  or  morow  after  my  discesse  vij.  trentallis ;  and  every 
weke  folowing  unto  my  monthes  mynde  oon  trentall,  and  iij.  trentalles  at  my 
monthes  mynde  biside  the  solempne  dirige  and  masse  that  is  to  be  requyred  for 
me  at  that  tyme.     And  I  charge  myne  executours  to  see  that  the  premisses  be 


^  [Register  Milles,  12.] 

201 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1487  done  and  performed,  and  also  the  said  freris  to  feche  me  from  the  place  where 
MAY  18  ■''■  ^^^  ^°^o  thair  said  place  where  I  have  lymy ted  afore  to  be  buried.  Also,  I 
wuU  that  as  sone  as  my  body  is  buryed  and  th'expenses  therof  done  and  paid 
that  myn  executours  provide  and  see  that  my  dettes  be  contented  and  paid. 
Also,  I  bequeith  to  the  vicar  of  the  church  of  Dorking  in  the  county  of  Surrey 
for  my  forsaid  housbandes  soul  and  myne,  our  faders  and  modres,  and  for  all 
the  soules  that  we  be  bound  unto,  to  be  praid  for  within  the  yer  after  my  dis- 
cesse,  as  in  diriges  and  masses  to  be  said  or  song  by  hym  or  his  deputie  and  to 
have  us  specially  in  remembraunce  in  thayr  memento  by  oon  hole  yer,  xxj. 
Also,  I  bequeith  to  the  reparacion  of  the  forsaid  churche  of  Dorking  xxj. 
Also,  I  bequeith  to  the  parson  of  Saint  Albans  in  Wodstrete  within  London 
for  diriges  and  masses  to  be  said  or  song  by  hym  or  his  deputie,  in  like  wise  as 
the  vicar  of  Dorking  is  charged,  as  is  afore  rehersed,  xxj.  Also,  I  bequeith 
to  the  reparacion  of  the  stepuU  of  the  said  churche  of  Saint  Albane  xx.  solidos. 
Also,  I  bequeith  to  the  prisoners  of  Newgate  and  Ludgate,  Kinges  Bench  and 
Marshallsee,  to  every  of  those  places  to  be  praid  for,  xx^.  Also,  I  bequeith  to 
bedred  folkes  and  other  pour  householders,  aswell  men  as  women,  dwelling 
within  London  and  without  in  the  suburbis  of  the  same,  and  moste  specially 
souche  as  have  knowen  me  and  I  thaym,  xb.,  as  by  the  discrecions  and  advises 
of  myne  executours  it  shall  be  thought  best  to  be  done.  Moreover  I  geve  and 
biqueith  to  my  doughter  Mary,  to  the  promocion  of  her  mariage,  all  my  plate 
and  other  juelles,  with  all  myne  hole  apparell,  and  all  my  stuff  of  houshold 
being  within  my  dwelling  place  or  any  other  within  the  citee  of  London  or 
suburbes  of  the  same,  that  is  to  say ; — First,  a  standing  cupp  of  silver  gilt, 
chaced  with  plompes,  weyeng  with  the  cover,  knoppe  and  devise  xlij.  unces  et 
dimidium.  Item,  a  standing  cupp  of  silver  and  gilt,  chaced  with  flowres,  wey- 
ing  with  the  cover,  the  knopp  and  devise,  xxvij.  unces  et  Smidium,  A  playn 
standing  cupp  of  silver  gilt,  weing  with  the  cover,  the  knopp  and  the  devise 
xxx.  unces.  A  standing  cupp  of  silver  and  gilt,  chaced  with  half  plompes, 
weying  with  the  cover,  knopp  and  devise  xx.  unces  and  dimidium,  A  playn 
standing  cupp  of  silver  gilt  weying  with  cover  and  the  knoppe  and  the  devyse 
xxvij.  unces  and  an  half.  A  standyng  cuppe  of  silver  and  gilt,  weyng  with  the 
cover,  the  knoppe  and  the  devyse  xxvj.  unces.  A  saltseler  of  sylver  and  gilte, 
weyng  with  the  cover,  the  knoppe  and  the  devyse  xxiij.  unces.  A  saltseler  of 
sylver  and  gilt,  without  a  cover,  weying  xxij.  unces  and  an  halfe.  A  litill  salt- 
seler of  sylver  and  gilt,  weying  with  the  cover  and  the  knoppe  and  the  devyse 
XV.  unces  and  an  half.  A  litell  saltseler  of  sylver  and  gilt,  without  the  cover, 
weying  viij.  unces  and  an  halfe.  And  vij.  holies  of  sylver,  parcelles  gilt,  weying 
iiij."""'  xviij.  unces.  And  ij.  peces  of  sylver  with  a  cover  weying  xlviij.  unces. 
A  dosen  and  a  half  of  silver  sponys  weying  xxiij.  unces,  and  iij.  sponys  of 
silver  and  gilt  weying  iij.  unces  and  iij.  quartrons,  and  a  long  spone  of  sylver 
and  gilt  for  ginger,  weying  j.  unce  and  iij.  quartrons.  Item,  a  chafing  disshe 
of  sylver  weying  xxvj.  unces.  And  ij.  litell  crewettes  of  sylver  weying  viij. 
unces.  A  chalese  of  sylver  and  gilt  with  the  paten,  weying  xj.  unces.  An 
haly  water  stok  of  silver  with  the  lid,  handill,  and  spryngill,  weying  xij.  unces. 
An  Agnus  with  a  baleys  iij.  saphires,  iij.  perlys  with  an  image  of  Saint  Antony 
apon  it.     And  a  tablet  with  the  Salutacion  of  Our  Lady,  and  the  iij.  Kingis  of 

202 


APPENDIX 

Collayn.  A  bee  with  a  grete  pearl.  A  dyamond,  an  emerawde,  iij.  grete  1 48  7 
perlys  hanging  apon  the  same.  A  nother  bee  with  a  grete  perle,  with  an  may  18 
emerawde  and  a  saphire,  weying  ij.  unces  iij.  quarters.  A  pece  of  the  Holy 
Crosse,  crossewise  made,  bordured  with  silver  aboute  ;  iij.  brode  girdilles,  oone  of 
tawny  silke  with  bokill  a  pendaunt,  another  of  purpill  with  bokyll  and  pendaunt, 
and  the  iij'^'^-  of  purpill  damaske  with  bokell  and  pendaunt.  And  vj.  barres  of 
silver  and  gilt,  and  iij.  brode  harnysed  girdilles,  oone  white  tisshew,  another 
red  tysshew  gold,  and  the  iij^®  a  playne  grene  coorse.  A  muskeball  of  gold 
weying  halfe  an  unce,  and  ij.  bokilles  and  ij.  pendauntes  of  gold,  oone  playne 
and  the  other  pounsyd,  weying  an  unce  and  a  quarter.  And  a  harnysed  gird  ill 
enameled  with  rowsclare,  weying  halfe  an  unce.  A  dymysoynt  ^  with  a  rubye 
and  an  amatyste  weying  j.  unce  and  an  halfe.  An  harnysed  girdill  of  golde  of 
damaske  with  a  long  pendaunt,  and  a  bokill  of  golde  chekkyd,  weying  j.  unce. 
A  grete  bed  of  a  state  of  verdure,  and  a  counterpoynt  to  the  same.  And  iiij. 
curteyns  of  grene  tartron.  A  grete  federbed,  a  bolster,  and  vj.  fetherbeddys 
over  woren,  vj.  bolsters.  And  iiij.  mattarasses,  lytyll  over  woren,  xij.  pellowes 
of  downe,  v.  newe  carpettys  of  ij.  ellys  in  lengeth  and  yarde  and  halfe  brode. 
iij.  fyne  pelow  beres,  and  a  grete  counterpoynt  of  tapstery  werk  of  v.  yardes 
and  a  quarter  longe  and  iiij.  yardes  brode.  A  hanging  for  a  chamber  of  grene 
say  borduryd  with  acrons  of  xxxv.  yerdes  longe ;  a  whyte  spervyour ;  ij. 
counterpoyntes,  an  hanging  bed,  with  a  lyon  thereupon ;  and  the  valence  white, 
grene,  and  red,  and  iiij.  blew  courtens  to  the  same.  And  two  coverlettes  with 
lyons ;  a  blak  testour  for  a  bed,  with  iiij.  blak  curtens,  and  vj.  pecys  of  blak 
hanging  to  the  same ;  ij.  cusshens  of  blak  velvet ;  a  cusshyn  of  blak  damask  ;  a 
cusshen  of  grene  worstede ;  a  long  cusshen  of  blewe  saten  figure.  A  blak 
coveryng  for  a  bed  of  borde  alisaunder.  And  xj.  peces  of  grene  saye, 
borduryd  with  acorns,  to  hang  with  a  chambre.  A  vestment  of  blak  velwet 
with  orfrayes,  browderyd  with  my  saide  husbondys  armes  and  myne ;  an 
awbe ;  j.  chesyppill,  with  a  stole,  and  all  that  belongeth  therto ;  ij.  corporas 
casys  of  cloth  of  gold  ;  j.  olde  vestment ;  an  awbe ;  an  awter  clothe  wyth 
the  image  of  Our  Lorde ;  a  corporas  case  of  blewe  cloth  of  golde.  A 
nother  of  blewe  saten  and  russet.  An  awter  clothe  of  staynyd  werke.  And 
iij.  stenyd  clothes  with  imagis  in  them  to  hang  a  chapell.  ij.  awter  clothes  of 
white  sylke  with  red  crosses,  and  ij.  curtens  with  white  frengis  and  red.  And 
iiij.  curtens,  ij.  of  rayed  sarsenet,  and  two  of  grene.  An  awter  clothe ;  a  litell 
pece  of  grene  tartron ;  a  payer  of  fustyans  of  iiij.  breddys  iij.  yerdys  iij.  quarters 
long.  A  paire  of  fyne  shetys  overworne  of  iiij.  yerdes  brede.  An  hede  shete 
and  iij.  payer  of  newe  shetys  of  iij.  levis,  of  iij.  ellys  and  an  half  long.  And  two 
payer  of  shetys  of  ij.  levis  and  an  half  long.  And  iij.  hed  shetys  of  ij.  bredys, 
and  vj.  paier  of  shetys  over  worne  of  ij.  levis.  And  vj.  paier  of  houshold 
shetis.  And  two  paier  of  woUen  blankettes.  And  a  violet  gowne,  furryd  with 
martrons.  A  blak  gowne  furryd  with  gray.  A  blak  gowne  furryd  with  white. 
A  blak  gowne  furryd  with  martrons.  And  a  nyght  gowne  of  blak  furryd  with 
martrons.  A  kirtill  of  tawny  chamlet.  A  purfill  of  ermyns  of  ij.  skynne 
depeth,  and  iij.  yardys  and  an  half  long.     A  purfill  of  martrons  of  j.  skynne 


^  A  metal  facing  for  a  girdle. 

203 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1487  depeth,  and  iiij.  yardis  long.  A  purfill  of  shankes  of  ij.  skynne  deppeth,  and 
MAY  1 8  "U*  yardis  long.  A  bonet  of  poudrid  ermyns.  And  a  pece  of  cloth  of  golde 
with  dropis,  which  was  of  a  duplade.  And  a  dosen  of  diaper  napkyns  of  flour 
de  lyce  werke  and  crownes.  And  a  dosen  and  a  half  of  naptkyns  of  playne 
clothe  with  blew  pelowers,  and  a  pece  of  clothe  of  diaper  werke  to  make  with 
a  dosen  naptkyns.  A  bordecloth  of  floure  de  lice  werk  and  crownes  of  x. 
yardis  and  an  half  long,  and  iij.  yardis  brode.  And  a  nother  bordecloth  of 
flour  de  lyce  werk  and  crownes,  viij.  yardes  and  a  half  long,  ij.  yardes  and  a 
quarter  brode;  a  towell  of  diaper  of  flower  delice  werke  and  crownys  of 
XX*'  yardys  long,  and  iij.  quarters  brode.  Another  towell  of  flower  delice 
werke  and  crownys  of  iij.  quarters  brode  and  xviij.  yardes  long.  A  nother  of 
latise  werke  and  diaper  of  iij.  quarter  brede  xiiij.  yerdes  di'  long.  Another 
towell  of  iiij.  greynys,  and  a  fret  of  viij.  yerdes  di'  long.  A  nother  towell  of 
latise  werk  and  crownys  vj.  yerdes  and  di'  long  and  iij.  quarters  brede.  And 
two  towellis  of  great  diaper  werke,  iij.  yerdes  and  a  quarter  long  and  iij.  quarter 
brode.  And  a  pece  of  new  creste  clothe  conteygnyng  xxiij.  ellys.  And  two 
towellys  of  great  diaper  werkes  of  xiij.  yerdes  long  and  iij.  quarter  in  brede. 
And  vij.  grete  cofers,  v.  chestis,  ij.  almaryes  like  a  chayer,  and  a  blak  cofer 
bounden  with  iron.  vj.  yoyned  stoles,  iiij.  kaskettys,  v.  litell  joynyd  stoles. 
A  litill  table,  ij.  yerdes  long.  A  rounde  table,  ij.  trestelles,  ij.  garnysshe  and 
di'  of  pewter  vessell  counterfete,  wherof  j.  garnysshe  and  di'  is  newe ;  and  vj. 
great  kandelstikkis  newe  of  laton,  and  iiij.  newe  bellyd  kandelstikkis,  ij.  litill 
kandelstikkis,  vij.  basens  of  pewater,  and  v.  brasse  pannys,  of  the  which  oon  is 
xvj.  galons,  and  two  of  them  of  viij.  galons  a  pece,  and  the  other  ij.  more  lesse. 
A  grete  standing  chafer  of  laton  with  a  lyon  apon  the  lydde,  ij.  chafers  of 
brasse,  and  ij.  litill  brasse  pottys,  ij.  grete  cobardys,  and  ij.  other  cobardys  more 
and  lesse,  ij.  fyer  pannys,  a  lityll  skelet.  A  ladill  and  a  scomer  of  laton,  ij. 
colondyrs,  ij.  spyttys,  ij.  dreping  pannes  of  iron,  iij.  dressing  knyfys,  ij.  lechyng 
knyfys,  ij.  choppyng  knyfys.  A  tryvet.  A  brasen  morter  with  a  pestell  of 
iron,  ij.  stone  morters,  ij.  gredyrons,  j.  payer  of  potte  hokys,  a  flesshe  hoke, 
and  a  kolerake.  Provydid  alwey  that  myn  executours  by  the  advyse  of  myn 
overseers  ordeigne  and  put  in  safegarde  to  be  kept  after  my  discease  in  to  som 
religious  place  unto  the  day  of  my  said  doughters  mariage,  and  to  the  behofe  and 
promocyon  of  the  same,  all  and  every  part  of  the  forsaid  plate  and  juelx  with 
all  other  stufFe  of  houshold  by  me  to  her,  as  is  abovewritten,  yoven  and  be- 
quethed,  except  souche  stufl'e  as  canne  not  be  kept  from  mowghtes.  which  I  will 
she  have  the  rule  and  governaunce  of  for  the  safegarde  of  the  same  and  for  her 
wele.  And  if  my  saide  doughter  Mary  dye  unmaryed,  then  I  yeve  and 
bequethe  all  the  forsaid  plate  with  all  other  stuffe  of  housholde  to  my  soon 
Mathewe  her  brother.  And  if  it  fortune  that  he  dye  unmaryed,  as  God  for- 
fende,  then  I  yeve  and  bequeth  all  and  every  part  of  my  forsaid  plate,  juelx, 
and  stuflTe  of  housholde  unto  my  soon  Sir  Edward  Ponyngis.  And  yef  it 
fortune  the  said  Edward  to  dye,  as  God  defende,  that  then  all  the  forsaid  juelx 
and  other  stuflTe  above  written,  except  a  playne  standing  cuppe  of  sylver  and 
gilt,  with  the  cover,  the  knoppe,  and  the  devyse  of  the  same  with  gryffons  hede 
in  the  botom  wrought  apon  blewe  asure,  weying  xxvj.  uncis,  which  I  geve  to 
my  doughter  in  lawe,  Dame  Isabell  Ponyngis,  to  be  dyvydyd  by  th'advice  of 

204 


APPENDIX 

the  overseers  of  this  my  present  testament  and  last  wille,  and  evynly  to  be  1 487 
departed  unto  Antony  Browne  and  Robert  Browne,  my  brethern  in  lawe,  they  may  18 
to  do  with  it  thair  fre  wille.  And  as  touching  myne  Agnus,  tablettes  with 
dyamondys,  saphires,  perlys,  grete  and  small  crosses,  gurdillis,  dymyseyntes, 
gownys,  with  all  other  thingis  longing  to  myne  apparayle,  as  is  above  written, 
yef  it  fortune  my  said  doughter  Mary  decease,  I  geve  and  bequethe  all  and 
every  part  of  it  to  my  kynnyswoman  Margaret  Hasslake.  And  if  the  said 
Margaret  dye,  that  then  all  the  said  apparell  particularly  written  before  remaigne 
to  my  said  doughter-in-lawe  Dame  Isabell  Ponyngys.  Also  xx.  marc  which  I 
lent  unto  my  son  Sir  Edward  Ponynges,  I  woU  that  it  be  distributyd  by  the 
discrecion  of  myn  executours  and  overseers  among  souche  as  been  knowen  my 
servauntys  at  the  day  of  my  discease.  The  residue  of  all  my  singuler  goodes, 
catallys,  and  juellys  after  my  dettys  payde,  and  my  bequestes  performyd  and 
fulfyllyd,  and  burying  done,  I  geve  and  fully  bequeth  to  my  sonnys,  Ser  Edward 
Ponyngis  and  Mathew  Browne,  and  theym  to  dispose  and  do  theire  fre  wille,  to 
pray  and  to  do  for  my  soule  as  they  wolde  I  sholde  do  for  them,  as  they  will 
aunswer  afore  God.  And  of  this  my  testament  and  last  wille  I  make  and 
ordeigne  myn  executours  my  forsaid  sonnes,  Ser  Edward  Ponyngys  and 
Mathew  Browne,  and  theire  supervysours  Humphrey  Conyngesby  and  Richard 
Tuke.  And  I  bequeth  to  every  of  myne  executours  for  thair  labour  Ixj-.,  and 
to  every  of  myne  overseers  for  thair  labours  x\s.  In  Wittenesse  hereof,  I  the 
said  Dame  Elizabeth  to  this  my  present  testment  and  last  wille  have  put  my 
seale.     Yoven  at  London,  the  day  and  yere  abovesaide. 

Probatum  fuit  suprascriptum  testamentum  coram  domino  apud  Lamehith 
xxvj'°  die  mensis  Junii,  anno  Domini  supradicto,  ac  approbatum  &c.  Et 
comfmissa  fuit  administratio  &c.,  Matheo  Browne,  filio  ejusdem  et  executori 
&c.  de  bene  &c.  Ac  de  pleno  inventario  &c.,  citra  festum  Sancti  Petri  quod 
dicitur  ad  Vincula,  reservata  potestate  committendi  &c.,  Edwardo  Ponynges 
militi,  executori  &c. 


7 

WILLIAM  PASTONi 

In  Dei  nomine.  Amen.  The  vij'^  day  of  the  moneth  of  Septembre  in  the  1 496 
yere  of  Our  Lord  God  m'CCCClxxxxvj.,  I,  William  Paston  of  London,  sept.  7 
gentilman,  being  of  hooll  mynde  and  in  good  memory,  laud  and  praysing  be 
unto  Almighti  God,  make  and  ordeigne  this  my  present  testament  and  last  wille 
in  maner  and  four  me  folowing,  that  is  to  sey : — Furst,  I  geve  and  bequeith  my 
soule  unto  my  saide  Lorde  God,  to  our  blessed  Lady  Sainte  Marye  Virgyne, 
and  to  all  the  holy  companye  of  Heven.  And  I  will  that  my  body  be  buried 
in  the  church  of  Blak  Frerez,  in  London,  at  the  north. ende  of  the  high  altar 


[Register  Home,  12.] 

205 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1496  there  by  my  Lady  Anne,  late  my  wife.  Also,  I  will  that  there  be  yeven  unto 
SEPT.  7  ^^^  saide  church  of  Blak  Frires,  where  my  saide  body  shall  lye,  to  be  praide 
for,  and  for  the  place  of  my  saide  burying  to  have  a  large  stone  upon  the  saide 
Lady  Anne  and  me,  a  convenient  rewarde  by  th'advise  and  discrecion  of  myne 
executours  under writen.  Also,  I  will  that  all  my  dettes  be  wele  and  truely 
contente  and  paide.  Also,  I  wille  that  xx//.  in  money  be  geven  and  disposed 
for  my  soule  and  all  Christen  soules  in  dedes  of  pitee  and  charitee  the  day  of 
my  saide  burying,  that  is  to  sey : — emonges  pouer  people  and  prisoners  within 
the  citee  of  London  and  withoute.  Also  I  will  that  I  have  a  preste  of  honest 
conversacion  to  synge  bothe  for  me,  and  for  suche  as  I  am  chargid  to  do  syng 
for  at  Cambrige,  as  my  servant,  Thomas  Andrewe,  can  shew  by  the  space  of 
viij.  yeres.  Also,  I  will  that  for  every  wronge  by  me  done  in  my  life  tyme  a 
dewe  recompence  be  made  there  fore  by  th'enformacion  of  my  saide  servante, 
Thomas  Andrew,  in  that  behalf.  Also,  I  will  that  all  my  landes  and  tene- 
mentes  with  th'appurtenances  be  devyded  bytwene  my  ij.  doughters,  Agnes  and 
Elizabeth,  by  the  discresion  of  my  executours  underwritten,  and  after  th'enforma- 
cion  of  my  saide  servaunte,  Thomas  Andrew,  to  whome  I  have  shewid  my 
entent  and  mynde  in  the  same  manye  tymes,  and  often  to  have  to  theym  and  to 
the  heires  of  theire  ij.  bodies  lawfully  begoten.  Also,  I  wille  that  all  the 
revennuyes  of  my  fee  symple  landes,  over  and  a  bove  the  reparacions  and 
charges  of  the  same  that  shalbe  due  at  Mychelmas  next  after  my  deceasce  be 
takyn  of  my  tenauntes  and  fermours  there  by  favoure,  and  that  the  same  revenues 
go  to  the  contentacion  and  payment  of  my  saide  dettes  assone  as  it  can  be  con- 
venyently  gadred  and  levied,  &c.  Also,  I  will  that  none  of  my  tenantes  nor 
fermers,  suche  as  be  of  grete  age  and  fallith  in  poverte,  be  in  any  wise  vexid  or 
t[r]oublid  after  my  deceasce  by  my  executours  underwritten  for  no  maner  of 
olde  dettes  due  unto  me  before  the  day  of  my  deces.  Also,  I  will  that  nether 
my  heires,  executours,  nor  non  other  person  for  theim,  nor  in  theire  names,  in 
any  wise  vex,  sue,  or  trouble  the  saide  Thomas  Andrew,  my  servaunte,  after 
my  deceasce  of  or  for  any  maner  of  rekenynges  or  other  maters  bitwene  hym 
and  me  in  all  my  life  tyme,  but  utterly  thereof  I  discharge  hym  and  will,  and 
will  that  he  be  therof  acquyte  and  discharged  in  that  behalve  as  I  have  shewid 
and  declared  in  my  life  unto  my  doughter  Elizabeth,  Mastres  Hide,  Master 
Ursewik,  Archedecon  of  Richemonde,  Master  Doctor  Myddelton,  Master 
Thomas  Madies,  chapeleyn  to  my  Lorde  Cardinall,^  Master  John  Shaa, 
Alderman  of  London,  Master  Reede,  Master  Christofer  Mildelton,  proctours 
of  the  courte  of  Canterbury,  and  many  other  honorable  folkis,  and  to  my 
servauntes  in  my  life  tyme,  consideryng  that  he  hathe  ben  my  trewe  and  feith- 
fuU  servant  these  xix.  yeres  or  more,  in  which  seasone  he  hath  had  dyvers 
grete  paynfuU  besynes  and  labours  in  my  causis,  by  whose  gode  policie  and 
meanes  I  have  purchased  moche  of  my  saide  fe  symple  landes,  which  also  canne 
geve  best  enformacion  how  all  suche  landes  as  I  have  purchased  stonden,  and 
what  consciens  is  there  in,  and  howe  every  thyng  shalbe  ordred.  Also,  I  will 
that  the  churche  of  Saynte  Petre,  in  Wodenorton  have  a  hole  vestyment  of  the 
price  of  V.  marc.     Also,  I  will  that  Elizabeth  Crane  be  wele  maried  at  my 


1  Cardinal  Morton. 
206 


APPENDIX 

costis,  or  ellis  by  the  menes  of  my  doughters,  unto  suche  a  personne  as  may  dis-  1 496 
pende  by  yere  xx.  marc,  or  ellis  to  a  gode  marchaunt  or  other  craftisman.  sept.  7 
Item,  I  will  that  Christofer  Talbot  be  treuly  contentid  and  paied  of  his  yerely 
annuyte  of  v.  merke  by  yere  duryng  his  life.  Item,  I  will  that  Thomas 
Dokkyng  have  surely  his  annuyte  of  xIj.  by  yere  duryng  his  life.  Item,  I  wille 
that  the  bargayne  of  Adam  Sowter  be  recompensid  after  th*enformacion  had  of 
my  saide  servaunte,  Thomas  Andrew.  Also,  I  will  that  every  of  my  servauntes 
be  rewarded  for  theire  good  and  diligent  laboure  and  attendance  had  a  bowte  me 
after  the  discresion  of  my  executours  underwritten.  Also,  I  will  that  all  suche 
of  my  godes  moveable  in  Warwikes  Inne,  and  in  my  place  callid  Castre  Clere, 
in  Norffolk,  and  in  my  place  in  Norwiche,  be  solde  by  the  discresion  of  my 
executours,  tawarde  and  for  the  contentacion  and  payment  of  my  saide  dettes 
and  performance  of  this  my  present  will.  Also,  I  will  that  the  vicar  of 
Fyncham  be  recompensid  of  his  bargayne  betwene  hym  and  me  after  th'enforma- 
cion  of  the  saide  Thomas  Andrewe.  Item,  I  will  that  all  my  servauntes, 
suche  as  be  behynde  of  their  wages  and  dueties,  be  trewly  content  and  paied. 
Also,  I  will  that  all  other  my  godes  not  bequethid,  this  my  will  fulfilled,  my 
dettes  paied,  and  all  my  wronges  recompensed  by  th'enformacion  of  the  saide 
Thomas  Andrew,  be  departid  bytwixte  my  ij.  doughter  beforesaide  after  the 
discresion  of  my  saide  executours.  And  also,  for  as  moche  as  I  have  not 
sufficient  redy  money,  and  that  my  dettis  cannot  be  redely  levied,  therfore  I 
will  that  money  be  made  of  all  suche  plate  as  I  have  for  the  haste  of  contenta- 
cion of  my  dettes  that  I  owe  of  my  buriallis.  And  of  this  my  present  testament 
and  laste  will  I  make  and  ordeyne  and  constitute  my  executours  the  moste 
reverend  fadre  in  God  my  Lorde  Cardinall,  the  right  high  and  myghty  Prynces, 
my  lady  the  Kynges  modre,  my  Lord  Dawbeney,  and  Sir  Edwarde  Poynynges, 
Knyght,  my  nevew,  whome  I  hartely  beseche  in  executyng  and  performyng  this 
my  laste  will  to  do  and  dispose  concernyng  the  same  in  every  thyng  as  they  shall 
thynke  best  to  the  pleasure  of  Almyghty  God,  and  for  the  helthe  of  my  sowle 
and  all  Cristen  sowles. 

Probatum  fuit  suprascriptum  testamentum  coram  domino  apud  Lamehith, 
xxviij°  die  mensis  Novembris,  Anno  Domini  Millesimo  CCCC°  nonagesimo 
sexto,  juramento  Thomse  Andrew  et  Laurencii  Canwike,  testium,  quibus 
Thomae  et  Lawrencio  commissa  fuit  administracio  per  viam  intestati,  pro  eo  et 
ex  eo  quod  executores'in  suo  testamento  nominati  ex  certis  causis  legitimis 
refutarunt,  de  bene  et  fideliter  administrand*  eadem  juxta  et  secundum  vires 
ipsius  defuncti  testamentum  sive  ultimam  voluntatem,  ac  primo  de  solvend'  aes 
alienum  in  quo  idem  defunctus  hujusmodi  mortis  suae  tempore  extitit  obligatus, 
deinde  legata  in  hujusmodi  suo  testamento  contenta,  quatenus  bona  et  debita  &c., 
ad  sancta  &c. 


207 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

8 

MARGARET  PASTON  ^ 

I,  Margaret  Paston,  widow,  *  late  wife  of  Edmond  Paston,  Squier. 

I  <Oa     •     •     ^4°  Nov.  Mccccciv my  sinful  bodie  to  be  buried  in  the 

NOV.  24    chyrche  of  Our  Lady  in  Iteryngham/ 

*  Item,  to  the  Hey  Awter  of  the  chirche  of  Sharington,  vjj.  viij^. 

*  Item,  to  the  reparacion  of  the  said  churche,  xxj. 

*  Item,  to  the  reparacion  of  the  chirch  of  Manington,  xj. 

*  Item,  to  the  reparacion  of  the  chirch  of  Itteringham,  iijj.  iv^. 

*  Item,  to  the  Hey  Awter  of  Itteringham,  iijj.  iv^. 

*  Item,  to  the  Gilde  of  Oure  blessid  Ladi  there,  iijj.  ivJ. 

*  Item,  to  the  Heigh  Awter  of  Saxthorpe,  ijj. 

*Item,  to  the  Heigh  Awter  of  the  chirche  of  Little  Baningham,  iijj.  iiij^. 

*  Item,  to  the  Heigh  Awter  of  the  chirche  of  Woolterton,  ijj. 

*  Item,  to  the  Heigh  Awter  of  the  chirche  of  Wood  Dalling,  iijj.  iiij^/. 

*  Item,  to  the  reparacion  of  heigh  way  in  Woolterton,  vs. 

*  Item,  I  will  that  my  son  William  Lumnor  have  c.  sheep,  xxiij.  nete,  x. 
quarters  wheat,  xx.  quarters  barley,  x.  quarters  oats,  and  as  many  horse,  cartes, 
plowghes,  and  harowghes,  with  alle  her  apparell,  as  shall  extende  to  the  valu  of 
vi//.  xiijj.  iiij^.,  beside  alle  the  foresaide  shepe,  &c.'  ....  in  recom- 
pense of  all  goods  ....  that  Thomas  Brigge,  late  my  husbande,  by 
his  testament  and  last  will  bequeathed  or  gave  to  the  said  William  Lumnor     . 

He  to  have  all  the  hangings  in  the  grey  chamber  over  the  parlour 
within  the  manor  place  of  Manington,  and  the  great  bed  with  the  covering  and 
hangings,  *  which  is  of  tapestrie  worke ;'....  also  all  the  hangings  of 
the  halle  and  parlour,  *  with  the  fake  table  in  the  parlure,  and  all  the  tables  and 
stooles  in  the  haule,  and  all  the  rede  hangings  of  the  rede  chaumber  over  the 

pantry  and  botry,  and  a  bede  of  red  saye' viz.,  its  belongings, 

pillows,  coverlets,  &c.,  &c. 

*Item,  to  the  said  William  Lumner,  my  son,  ij.  grete  rosting  aundernes, 
iij.  spetes,  ij.  brass  pots  with  all  the  brewing  vessels.' 

Item,  to  my  daughter,  Margaret  Browne,  *  my  fruntelet  of  purpill  velvet, 
my  girdill  whereof  the  herneys  is  silver  and  gilt,  and  the  corse  is  of  damaske 
gold,  and  also  my  fruntelet  of  crymsyn  velvet.' 

Item,  to  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Whymbergh  my  dymysent  silver  and  gilt, 
and  my  corse  of  crymsyn  velvet  pirled  with  gold,  and  also  a  fruntlet  of  crymsyn 
velvet. 

Item,  to  Margaret  Lomnor,  my  daughter-in-lawe,  my  prymer  clad  with 
grene  velvet. 

Item,  to  my  daughter,  Anne  Lomnor,  my  russet  gown  pervild  with  menks, 
and  my  best  coral  bedes  conteyning  once  fifty,  and  my  best  bonnett. 

Item,  to  Elizabeth  Gayne,  xiijj.  iiij^.,  to  the  bying  of  a  gowne  for  her. 

1  [Reg.  Norvic.  *Rix'  f.  107.] 
208 


APPENDIX 

Item,  to  my  son,  John  Lomnor,  a  brass  pott,  a  basin,  with  an  ewer  of     i  ^04 
pewter  with  a  roose  of  lateyn  in  the  bottom  of  the  said  basin,  and  four  platters,    uoy.  24 
and  four  dishes,  and  iiij.  sawcers  of  pewter. 

Item,  to  my  son,  Henry  Lomnor,  xb. 

Item,  to  my  nephew,  Thomas  Lomnor  ....  a  feather  bed, 
&c.,  &c. 

Item,  to  my  nephew,  James  Lomnor a  feather  bed,  &c. 

*  And  all  the  residue  of  alle  my  goodes  and  catallis,  sylver  plate,  and  all  my 
detts  to  me  owing,  above  not  bequeathed  nor  assigned,  I  give  and  bequeath  to 
my  son,  William  Lomnor,  whom  I  ordeine  and  make  my  executor,*  first  to  pay 
debts,  and  distribute  the  remainder  *  to  the  most  plesure  to  God  and  helthe  to 
my  sowle.* 

Proved  at  Norwich,  19  May  1505,  by  William  Lumnor. 

9 

DAME  AGNES  PASTONi 

*  Dame  Agnes  Paston,  widow,  late  the  wife  of  Sir  John  Paston,  Knight,      i  C  i  o 
deceased,'  makes  her  will  31  May,  a.d.  15 10,  2  Hen.  viii.     To  be  buried,  if    ^ay  ^i 
she  die  in  London,  in  the  church  of  the  Black  Friars,  by  her  husband  John 
Harvy ;  or,  if  she  die  in  Kent,  in  the  parish  church  in  Sondryche.     Goods  in 

three  chests  to  be  divided  among  her  three  sons,  George,  Thomas,  and  Edward. 
Bequeaths  to  her  son  George  Hervy  a  pair  of  large  sheets  of  her  own  spinning, 
and  all  her  bedding  at  Sondryche  to  her  son  Thomas  Isley.  Other  bequests  to 
John  Palmer  of  Otteford,  to  the  parson  of  Brasted,  to  her  daughter  Isabel  Isley, 
her  cousin  Alys  Petham,  to  Margaret  Palmer,  to  Mrs.  Bygote  *  with  my  Lady 
Marqueys.'  ^  To  her  son-in-law  William  Hatteclyff  a  basin  and  ewer,  parcel 
gilt,  for  20  marks,  if  he  will  give  so  much  for  it ;  otherwise  it  is  to  go  to  her 
sons  George  Harvy  and  Edw.  Isley.  To  her  son  George  a  silver  salt  with  a 
cover,  at  Leuesham.  To  her  chaplain  Sir  Robert  *the  complete  bedde  within 
my  little  draught  chambre  att  Sonderiche,'  and  10  marks  a  year  for  5  years,  to 
pray  for  her  soul  and  the  souls  of  John  Hervy,  Sir  John  Paston,  and  John 
Isley,  her  husbands.  To  her  son  Thomas  Isley's  children,  and  her  own  and 
her  daughter  Isabel  HatteclyfF's  children,  5  marks  each.  To  her  son  George 
Hervy,  *  a  standing  cupp  with  a  kever,  silver  and  gilt  with  sekylles,'  and  a  gold 
cross.  To  her  daughter  Isley  a  ring  with  a  rebewe.  To  her  son  Thomas 
Isley  her  gelding.  Other  bequests  to  her  cousins  Margaret  Palmer  and  Thos. 
Waserer's  wife;  also  to  young  Potter,  the  man  of  law,  to  Agnes  Waserer, 
and  to  Eliz.  mother  to  Thomas  Waserer's  wife,  to  Joan  Julles,  William  Tid- 
man,  to  her  servant  Kyllingworth,  to  Vincent  her  housekeeper,  to  Sir  Robert, 
parish  priest  of  Sonderyche,  to  Sir  William  of  Nokold.  Mr.  Robert  Scalys 
parson  of  Braysted  to  be  overseer  of  her  will ;  her  sons  George  Harvy  and 
Thos.  Isley  to  be  her  executors. 

Proved  at  Lambeth,  19  June  15 10. 

1  [Register  Benet,  29.]         ^  Cecily,  widow  of  Thomas,  first  Marquis  of  Dorset. 
VOL.  VI. O  209 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE  OF  PUBLIC 
AND  PRIVATE  OCCURRENCES 


[This  Table  is  intended  partly  to  serve  the  purpose  of  a  Table  of  Contents  to  the 
more  Important  Letters,  partly  to  enable  the  reader  to  see  at  a  glance  the  bearing 
of  particular  transactions  on  the  general  history  of  the  times.  The  Nos.  quoted 
are  those  of  the  Letters.] 


HENRY  V 

1413 

Accession  of  Henry  V, 

I415 
Henry  VJsJirst  campaign  in  France — Battle  of  Agincourt, 

I417-8 
Henry  VJs  second  campaign  in  France,  i. 

I419 
1 3     Jan.  Capture  of  Rouen,  i . 

1420 

24  Mar.  Marriage  Settlement  of  William  Paston,  4. 
21   May.   Treaty  ofTroyes, 

1422 

3 1   Aug.  Henry  V.  dies  at  Vincennes* 

HENRY  VI 

1422 

I  Sept.  Accession^     The  King  only  nine  months  old. 
210 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 

1424 

Outrages  committed  by  Walter  Aslak  in  Norfolk,  6. 

1425 

Disputes  hetnveen  Humphrey ^  Duke  of  Gloucester^  and  Beaufort,  Bishop 
of  Winchester. 

1425-6 
Disputes  between  William  Paston  and  John  Wortes,  10,  11,  12. 

1427 
Beaufort  made  a  Cardinal, 

1428-9 
Siege  of  Orleans — Raised  by  Joan  of  Arc. 

1429 

6  Nov.   Coronation  of  Henry  VI,  at  Westminster. 

7  Dec.  William  Paston  made  a  brother  of  the  Monastery  of  Bury,  19. 

30  May.  Joan  of  Arc  burned  at  Rouen. 

17    Dec.   Coronation  of  Henry  VI,  at  Paris, 

1432 

29   Nov.  Demands  of  the  Earl  of  Warwick  touching  the  charge  oj  the  King's 
education,  24. 

1434-^ 
William  Dallmg's  petition  against  William  Paston,  25. 

1434-5 

Sir  John  Fastolf,  captain  of  Le  Mans,  27. 

211 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


1435 

Aug.   Peace  Conferences  at  Arras — broken  off  by  England, 
1 4  Sept.  Death  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford  at  Rouen,     The  Duke  oj  Tork  made 

Regent. 
2 1    Sept.   The  Duke  of  Burgundy  deserts  England^  and  makes  a  separate  peace 

ivith  France. 

1436 

Recovery  oj  Paris  by  the  French, 

The  Duke  of  Tork  lands  in  Normandy,  and  recovers  several  places  from 

the  French. 
Calais  besieged  by  the  Duke  of  Burgundy,  but  relieved  by  the  Duke  of 

Gloucester, 

1437 

19    Feb.  James  I,  of  Scotland  murdered, 

1 6  July.  The  Duke  of  Tork  recalled  from  France,  and  the  Earl  of  Warwick  sent 
in  his  place, 

1439 

Death  of  Warwick  at  Rouen,      Tork  made  Regent  again. 
Peace  Conferences  at  Calais — ineffectual. 

About  1440 

John  Paston's  introduction  to  Margaret  Mauteby,  34.     His  marriage 
to  her,  35. 

1440 
Release  of  the  Duke  of  Orleans,  36. 


1443 
John  Paston  ill  in  London,  47. 

1444 

Feb.  William  Paston  and  Chief-Justice  Fortescue  both  too  ill  to  go  on 
circuit,  51. 
14  Aug.  Death  of  William  Paston,  56. 

212 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 


1445 

Disputes  of  Agnes  Paston  with  the  Vicar  of  Paston,  62. 
22  April.  Marriage  of  Henry  VI.  ivith  Margaret  of  Anjou,  62. 

1447 

Parliament  of  Bury. — Arrest  and  death  of  Gloucester. 
Death  of  Cardinal  Beaufort. 

1448 

17   Feb.  John  Paston  dispossessed  of  Gresham  by  Lord  Molynes,  102. 

A  relief  claimed  by  Lady  Morley,  75. 

Daniel  said  to  be  out  of  favour,  75. 
22  May.  Affray  at  Coventry  between  the  retainers  of  Sir  Robert  Harcourt 
and  Sir  Humphrey  Stafford,  78. 

1449 

Mar.  Death  of  Edmund  Paston — his  nuncupative  will  dated  21  March,  85. 
May.  Robert  Wenyngton  captures  a  fleet  oj  1 00  ships,  90.     Friar  Hauteyn's 
claim  to  Oxnead,  63,  87. 

6  Oct.  John  Paston  again  occupies  Gresham,  88,  102. 

The  King  in  the  Marches  of  Wales,  96. 

Capture  of  Rouen  by  the  French. 

Stephen  Scrope  a  suitor  of  Elizabeth  Paston,  93,  94. 

1450 

28     Jan.  John  Paston's  wife  driven  out  of  Gresham,  102,  103. 

7  Feb.  Impeachment  of  the  Duke  of  Suffolk,  loi. 

John  Paston  presents  a  petition  to  the  King  in  Parliament  against 
Lord  Molynes,  102. 
Mar.  Foreigners  light  on  the  coast  of  Norfolk,  and  take  people  prisoners, 
105,  106. 
1 5  April.  Battle  of  Fourmigni — Sir  Thomas  Kiriel  taken  prisoner,  120. 
30  April.  The  Duke  of  Suffolk's  letter  to  his  son,  117. 
April  or  May.  Daniel  enters  the  manor  of  Bray ston,  108,  119. 
2  May.  The  Duke  of  Suffolk  murdered  at  sea,  120,  1 2 1. 
May.  New  appointments  to  offices  of  state,  123. 
Jack  Cadets  rebellion,  126. 
1 2  Aug.  Loss  of  Cherbourg,  the  last  place  held  by  the  English  in  Normandy,  131. 
Aug.  Disturbances  in  Norfolk,  132,  133. 

Thomas  Denyes  and  the  Earl  of  Oxford,  123,  124,  132. 
J.  Paston's  dispute  with  Lord  Molynes,  131,  135,  136,  139,  145. 

213 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1450 

Sept.  The  Duke  of  Tork  comes  over  from  Ireland^  and  causes  a  change  of 
administration^  142,  143. 
Molynes  and  his  men  indicted  of  felony,  147. 
Oct.  Election  of  two  knights  of  the  shire  for  Norfolk,  148,  149. 
Nov.  Meeting  of  Parliament — Oldhall  chosen  Speaker^  ^  5  ^  • 

Tuddenham  and  Heydon  unpopular  in  Norfolk,  154,  170. 
Dec.  Oyer  and  terminer  in  Suffolk,  at  Beccles,  160,  161. 
Oyer  and  terminer  going  into  Norfolk,  162. 

I451 

Jan.  An  oyer  and  terminer  for  Kent,  1 69. 

Oyer  and  terminer  to  be  held  at  Norwich  at  Easter,  174,  175. 
John  Paston  re-enters  Gresham,  178. 
25    Feb.  Bettes  arrested  at  a  court  held  by  Gonnor  at  Routon,  178. 
I   Mar.  Heydon's  horse  brought  through  Aylesham  into  Norwich,  179,  180. 
I   Mar.  Tuddenham  and  Heydon  expected  to  regain  their  ascendency,  184. 
Petition  to  Parliament  against  Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham,  185. 
April.  Tuddenham  and  Heydon  to  be  indicted  at  Norwich,  186. 
May.  Lord  Molynes  and  his  men  indicted  at  Walsingham,  189,   190; 
acquitted  by  favour  of  the  King,  189,  193. 
I    July.  Death  of  Sir  Harry  Inglos,  201. 

Aug.  Surrender  of  Bayonne : — entire  loss   of  Gascony  and  Guienne  by  the 

English, 
Dec.  Daniel  hoping  to  re-enter  Brayston,  206 :  which  he  did  soon  after, 
119. 

1452 

7  April.  Good  Friday.     A  general  pardon  granted  by  the  King, 
April.  The  Duke  of  Norfolk  coming  to  Norfolk  to  redress  disorders,  210, 
211,  212. 
The  King  also  coming  into  Norfolk,  210,  211. 
Outrages  of  Charles  Nowell  and  others,  212,  213,  215,  217,  241, 
Roger  Church,  being  taken  prisoner  by  his  own  consent,  accuses 

many  gentlemen  of  sedition,  214,  216,  217,  218,  219,  241. 
An  army  sent  under  Shrewsbury  to  recover  Guienne, 
1 8  Dec.  The  Duke  of  York  pawns  jewels  to  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  1 84. 

1453 
Building  operations  [at  Caister?],  224,  225. 
April.  Visit  of  Margaret  of  Anjou  to  Norwich,  226. 
July.  Deaths  of  Philip  Berney  and  Sir  John  Heveningham,  227,  228. 
July.   The  Earl  of  Shreivsbury  defeated  and  slain  at  Castillon,     Fined  loss 
of  Guienne. 
Aug.     The  King  falls  ill  at  Clarendon, 

Dec.  ?  The  Duke  oj  NorfoW s  petition  against  Somerset,  230. 
214 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 

1454 

Jan.  The  K'tng^s  imbeciUtyj  235. 

Tork  and  other  Lords  coming  up  to  London ^  235. 
12     Jan.  Walter  Ingham  waylaid  and   beaten    by   procurement  of  Thomas 
Denyes,  238. 
Thomas  Denyes  and  his  wife  put  in  prison,  239,  240,  244^  245. 
22   Mar.   Death  of  Cardinal  Kemp,  239. 

3  April.  The  Duke  of  Tork  made  Protector. 

1454  ? 

Marriage  proposed  between  John  Clopton  and  Elizabeth  Paston,  242, 
243- 

1454 

Mayor  June.  Defeat  of  the  French  in  an  attack  on  Jersey  and  Guernsey,  247. 

6  June.  Wardship  of  Thomas  Fastolf  of  Cowhaw,  granted  to  John  Paston 

and  Thomas  Howys,  248. — Paid  for  by  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  271. — 
Disputed  by  Sir  Philip  Wentworth,  248,  263,  266,   267,  277, 
278,  289,  292,  307. 
9  June.  Ediuard  the  King^s  son  created  Prince  of  Wales,  247. 
5   July.  The  Duke  of  Tork  and  other  Lords  coming  up  from  the  North — Lords 
appointed  to  keep  the  sea,  249. 
II   July.  Marriage  proposed  for  Elizabeth  Paston  by  Lord  Grey  of  Hastings, 
250,  252. 
July.  The  Duke  of  Tork  is  commissioned  to  convey  the  Duke  of  Exeter  to  the 
North,  and  commit  him  to  Pomfret  Castle,  254. 
Aug.  ?  Sir  John  Fastolf  goes  to  reside  at  Caister,  254,  260. 
Sept.  Pestilence  in  London,  260. 
Nov.  Fastolf  proposes  to  sue  an  attaint,  267,  268. 
25   Dec.  The  King  recovers  from  his  illness,  270. 

1455 

5  Feb.  Somerset  released  from  the  Tower, 

7  Feb.  Sir  J.  Fastolf  resents  words  spoken  at  a  dinner  at  Norwich,  272. 

4  Mar.  The  questions  between  Somerset  and  Tork  referred  to  arbitrators. 
17  Mar.  Presentation  to  Stokesby  church,  273,  274. 

29  Mar.  Sir  Thomas  Howes  vexed  by  Andrews  and  others,  276,  297. 
22  May.  The  first  battle  of  St.  Albans,  283-5,  287. 

June.  Election  of  Howard  and  Chamberlain  for  Norfolk,  288,  291,  294, 
295. 
[June  or  July].  Attempt  of  the  Scots  on  Berwick. 

7  July.  Poynings  acquitted  of  treason,  etc.,  297. 
19  July.  Dispute  between  Warwick  and  Lord  Cromwell  before  the  King,  299. 

215 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1455 

25  July.  Slander  against  John  Paston,  Yelverton,  and  Alyngton,  300,  301. 

26  July.  Letter  of  the  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  302. 

28    Oct.   Affray  at  Radford^ s  place  in  Devonshire  hetiveen  the  men  of  the  Earl  of 
Devonshire  and  of  Lord  Bonvile^  303. 

The  King  sick  again  at  Hertford^  303* 
13   Nov.  Fastolf  and  the  Duke  of  Bedford's  goods,  305,  319,  320,  323. 
19   Nov.   The  Duke  of  Tork  appointed  Protector  a  second  time, 
25  Nov.  Daniel  comes  to  Rising  Castle,  306. 

Letter  of  Judge  Bingham  about  Stephen  Scrope,  308, 

FastolPs  claims  against  the  Crown,  309,  310. 


1456 

6  Jan.  Fastolf  about  to  make  his  will,  314. 
20    Jan.  Fastolf  and  Lady  Whitingham,  317-9. 

5   Feb.  Fastolf  and  Lord  Willoughby's  executors,  321. 

9    Feb.  Tork  and  Warwick  come  to  the  Parliament  <with  300  armed  men,  322. 

25    Feb.  Tork  again  discharged  of  the  Protectorship, 

I    Mar.  FastolPs  *  compert '  sped  in  the  Exchequer,  324. 

27   Mar.  Letter  of  Archbishop  Bourchier,  326. 

30  Mar.  Letter  of  Dame  Alice  Ogard,  327. 
8  May.  Progress  of  the  attaint,  330. 

Attack  on  foreign  merchants  in  London^  330,  331. 

15  May.  The  King  at  Sheen,  the  Queen  at  Tutbury,  etc.,  331,  334. 
I  June.  Farmers  of  Cowhaw,  etc.,  333. 

7  June.  Siege  expected  at  Calais^  334' 
Q29  June].  Letter  of  Friar  Brackley,  338. 

17   July.  FastolPs  proposed  college,  340,  350,  351. 

31  July.  Fastolf  and  the  Prior  of  Hickling,  341. 

10  Aug.  Learned  men  not  easy  to  get  this  harvest,  342. 

7  Sept.  Letter  of  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  344. 

8  Oct.   The  Court  at  Coventry. 

16  Oct.  Bishop  Waynflete  made  Chancellor  in  Place  of  Archbishop  Bourchier y  etc., 

348. 
16    Oct.  Affray  at  Coventry. 

15   Nov.  Visit  of  my  Lady  of  York  to  Caister,  335,  350. 
Nov.  Suit  of  Paston  and  Howes  against  Andrews,  352. 


1457 

I   May.  Expenses  of  FastolPs  household,  356. 

The  Court  at  Hereford: — Welshmen  indicted,  356. 
28  Aug.    The  French  burn  Sandwich, 
216 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 

I4j8 

24  Jan.  [?  year].  Earl  of  Salisbury  excuses  himself  by  illness  from  coming  up  to 

London,  361. 

28  Jan.  Clement  Paston  and  his  tutor  Grenefeld,  362. 

I    Feb.  Arrival  of  the  different  Lords  in  London,  364. 
Feb.  The  King  at  Berkhampstead,  365. 
1 5    Mar.   The  Council  sits  at  the  Black  Friars  in  the  forenoon  and  at  the  White 
Friars  in  the  afternoon,  366. 
The  coast  of  Norfolk  insulted  by  the  French,  366. 

25  Mar.   Reconciliation  of  the  Lords  at  London, 

29  May.  Sea  fight  off  Calais   on   Trinity    Sunday  between   Warwick   and  the 

Spaniards,  3^9' 
27  Aug.  William  Worcester  learning  French  in  London,  370. 
Expenses  of  John  Paston  in  36  and  37  Hen.  vi.,  373. 

1459 

3     Jan.  Elizabeth  Poynings  to  her  mother,  Agnes  Paston,  374. 
Feb.  ?  Fray  between  the  King's  servants  and  Warwick's  ;  after  which  Warwick 
goes  over  to  Calais. 
5   Mar.  John  Paston,  the  eldest  son,  to  John  Paston,  his  father,  regretting 
having  given  him  displeasure,  375. 
29  April.  Hastings  and  others  ordered  to  be  with  the  King  at  Leicester  on  the 

loth  May.     Is  Paston's  son  to  go  ?  377. 
25  May.  Osbert  Mundeford  to  John  Paston  (in  French),  378. 
23  Sept.  Battle  of  Bloreheath — Lord  Audley  defeated  by  Salisbury. 
12    Oct.  Dispersion  of  the  Torkists  at  Ludlow, 
3   Nov.  Will  of  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  385,  386,  387. 
5   Nov.  Death  of  Sir  J.  Fastolf. 

Inventory  of  Fastolf  *s  goods,  388.     His  wardrobe,  389. 
12   Nov.  William  Paston  to  John  Paston  about  Fastolf 's  goods,  391. 
Bishop  Waynflete's  advice,  393. 

7  Dec.  The  Yorkists  attainted  in  the  Parliament  at  Coventry,  396. 

Sir  Philip  Wentworth*s  petition  touching  the  wardship  of  Thomas 
Fastolf  of  Co whaw,  397. 

1460 

Jan.  Rivers  and  his  son  surprised  at  Sandwich,  and  carried  over  to  Calais, 
399,  400. 
The  King  coming  to  London,  and  raising  the  people  on  his  way,  4OO. 

8  May.  The  Abbot  of  Langley  excuses  himself  from  coming  up  to  London 

about  FastolPs  will,  407. 
10  July.  Battle  of  Northampton — the  King  taken  prisoner. 
23   July.  The  Yorkist  Lords  to  the  authorities  in  Norfolk,  410. 
Oct.  John  Paston  returned  to  Parliament,  415,  416. 

217 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1460 

12    Oct.  The  Duke  of  Torh  coming  up  to  London^  419.     He  challenges  the  Crotun 
in  Parliament^  423. 
Oct.  Inquisition  taken  on  Fastolf's  lands  at  Acle,  421,  422,  423. 
29    Oct.  Inquisition  to  be  taken  on  the  same  for  Suffolk  at  Bungay,  427. 
31    Dec.  Battle  of  Wakefield — the  Duke  of  Tork  slain f  430. 
J,  Perse  in  prison,  423,  424,  425,  462. 

I461 

3    Feb.  Battle  of  Mortimer's  Cross, 
1 7    Feb.  Second  battle  of  St.  Albans. 
I    Mar.  Plot  to  carry  off  John  Paston  into  the  North,  432. 
A  Whitsunday  sermon  of  Friar  Brackley,  436. 


EDWARD  IV 
1461 

4  Mar.  Edtuard  IV.  proclaimed  King. 

People  take  wages,  and  go  up  to  London  in  spite  of  orders  to  the 
contrary,  449.     Attempt  against  John  Damme,  ib* 
29   Mar.  Battle  ofToivton,  450. 

April.  Henry  VI.  besieged  in  Yorkshire^  451" 

May.  Berwick  full  of  Scots,  455.      Earl  of  IVilt shire's  head  set  on  London 
Bridge,  ib. 
10  May.  The  feoffees  of  Fastolf's  lands  mean  to  sell  some  to  the  Duke  of 
Suffolk,  453. 
May.  Thomas  Denyes  complains  of  Howard,  455. 

Carlisle  besieged  by  the  Scots — the  siege  raised  by  Montague,  457. 
31  May.  The  Earl  of  Oxford  anticipates  disturbance  from  Howard,  456. 

5  June.  The  Duke  of  Norfolk  in  possession  of  Caister,  458. 
June.  John  Paston  at  Court,  458,  459. 

26  June.  Elizabeth  Poynings  dispossessed  of  her  lands,  461. 
28  June.   Coronation  of  Edward  IV. 

June.  The  Parson  of  Snoring  drags  Thomas  Denys  out  of  his  house,  462. 
July.  The  King  should  be  informed  of  the  demeaning  of  the  shire,  463. 
3   July.  A  message  for  Thomas  Denys'  wife,  464. 

6  July.  Murder  of  Thomas  Denys,  465,  469,  472,  474. 
9  July.  Denys'  wife  in  great  trouble,  466. 

Sir  Miles  Stapleton  accuses  John  Berney  of  complicity  in  Denys' 

murder,  467,  468. 
John  Berney  and  the  under-Sheriff,  468,  469,  470,  471. 

27  July.  John  Paston  restores  to  the  King  the  jewels  pledged  to  Fastolf  by  his 

father,  the  Duke  of  York,  473. 

:^i8 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 

I461 

1  Aug.  Election  for  Norfolk,  475. 

Aug.  John  Paston's  eldest  son  in  the  King's  household,  476,  477,  478. 

Altercation  between  John  Paston  and  Howard  in  the  shire-house  at 
Norwich,  477,  478. 
28  Aug.  William  Worcester  out  of  favour  with  Paston  and  Howes,  479. 
30  Aug.  Lord  Hungerford  and  Robert  Whityngham  to  Margaret  of  Anjou 
from  Dieppe,  480. 
Aug.  Henry  VI.  and  Margaret  of  Anjou  in  Scotland^  480. 
4  Sept.  Yelverton  and  Jenney  take  a  distress  at  Cotton,  481,  482. 

Sept.  The  Duke  of  Gloucester  to  have  Caister,  482. 
4    Oct.    The  castles  in  Wales  given  up  to  Edivard  IV,^  483. 
9    Oct.  Richard  Calle  prevents  Jenney  holding  a  court  at  Cotton,  485. 

Disorders  committed  by  the  occupants  of  Cotton  Hall,  486,  487. 
1 1    Oct.  The  King  is  offended  at  John  Paston  for  not  obeying  Privy  Seals, 
484. 

2  Nov.  John  Paston  delivered  from  the  Fleet,  and  Howard  committed  to 

prison,  488. 
Dec.  Message  of  the  King  to  the  people  of  Norfolk  through  Yelverton, 
497,  500. 

1462 

Jan.  Clarence  and  Suffolk  to  be  sent  down  to  Norfolk  with  a  commission 

to  judge  rioters,  504. 
Feb.  Presentation  to  Drayton  Church,  509. 
Feb.   Projected  invasion  of  England  in  three  places  in  the  interest  of  Henry  VI»y 

509. 
Feb.  Executions  of  Sir  Thomas  Tuddenham  and  of  Lord  Aubrey  de  Vere. 
Mar.  Sir  John  Howard  like  to  lose  his  head,  510. 
1 3   Mar.  John  Paston,  the  elder,  at  great  expense  travelling  with  the  King,  511. 
Mar.  Confession  of  French  prisoners  taken  at  Sherringham — the  Duke  of 
Somerset  going  into  Scotland,  etc.,  512. 
24  Mar.  The  King  going  to  keep  Easter  at  Bury,  513. 
April.  The  Earl  of  Worcester  to  be  Treasurer,  515. 

The  Mary  Talbot  and  the  Barge  of  Tarmouth,  518,  521-3. 
Campaign  of  the  Earl  of  Warwick  in  Scotland,  521. 
17   July.  Death  of  Christopher  Hanson,  526-8. 

July.   Warwick  and  other  Lords  going  to  Scotland  in  embassy,  527,  528. 
Sept.  Proclamation  for  men  to  serve  the  King,  529. 

The  Duke  of  Somerset  seeks  to  be  reconciled  to  the  King,  529. 
John  Paston's  bill  in  Chancery  against  Yelverton  and  Jenney,  530. 
Naval  engagement— ffty  French  and  Spanish  ships  taken,  531. 
Oct.  The  castle  of  Bamborough  taken  by  Margaret  of  Anjou,  532. 
1 1   Dec.  Alnwick,  Dunstanborough,  and  Bamborough  besieged  by  King  Edward's 
forces,  533. 

219 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1463 

19    Jan.  Return  of  John  Paston,  the  eldest  son,  home  to  Norwich,  536. 
[Feb].  A  writ  received  at  Norwich  against  John  Paston  jun.  (the  eldest  son), 

538. 
19   Mar.   Ralph  Lampet  s  testimony  about  Fastolf's  will,  541. 

6  April.  Sir  Roger  Chamberlain's  testimony  about  FastolPs  will,  543. 

6  May.  John  Paston  should  have  my  Lord  of  Suffolk's  *  good  lordship '  to  live 

in  peace,  544. 

July.  Examinations  touching  a  murder,  545. 

31  Aug.  The  Duke  of  Norfolk  desires  John  Paston  the  father's  presence  at 

Framlingham,  548. 

Complaint  that  John  Paston  keeps  his  son,  Sir  John,  too  much  at 

home,  550. 

A  marriage  suggested  for  John  Paston's  daughter  (Margery),  551. 

Sir  John  Paston  leaves  home  clandestinely,  552. 

10  Dec.  Plate  lent  by  John  Paston  to  St.  Mary's  College,  Cambridge,  554. 


1464 

26  Jan.  Lawsuits  of  Ogan  and  Debenham  with  John  Paston,  555. 

28  Jan.  Henry  Berry  appeals  to  John  Paston  for  aid  to  the  Monastery  of  St. 

Augustine's,  Canterbury,  556. 

27  Feb.  Berney,  Yelverton,  and  Rough  summoned  to  appear  before  the  King, 

558. 

29  Feb.  Assizes  at  Thetford,  558,  559. 

Rebels  in  Cambridgeshire  pardoned,  559. 
The  Duke  of  Somerset  rebels  once  more^  560. 

1 1  April.  Plate  and  other  articles  delivered  by  the  Prior  of  Norwich  to  Richard 

Calle,  561. 
25  April.  Battle  of  Hedgley  Moor, 
I   May.  Ednvard  IV,  marries  ETi%aheth  Woodvtlle  privately, 
8  May.  Battle  of  Hexham, — Somerset  beheaded,  1 5th  ;  and  Lords  Hungerford 
and  RooSf  27th. 
Ap. — Nov.  Depositions  touching  Fastolf's  will,  565. 

12  May.   Seisin  of  Horninghall  in  Caister  to  be  delivered  to  the  Pastons,  566. 
8  June.  Commission  to  inquire  why  men  did  not  come  more  quickly  to  serve 

the  King  when  summoned,  567. 

28  June.  Suit  by  Jenney  against  Paston,  568. 

Petition  of  John  Paston  to  Edward  IV.  for  license  to  found  a  college 
at  Caister,  569. 
10  Sept.  Agreement  of  the  King  with  John  Paston  for  the  foundation  of  the 

college,  571. 
20  Nov.  Outlawry  of  John  Paston,  572. 
3   Dec.  Mocking  letter  addressed  to  John  Paston,  574. 
220 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 

1465 

7  Feb.  Judgment  against  Daubeney,  Ric.  Calle,  etc.,  576. 

31    Mar.  Message  by  William  Worcester  to  Sir  Thomas  Howes,  577. 

8  April.  The  Duke  of  Suffolk  lays  claim  to  Drayton  and  Hellesdon,  578,  580. 
3  May.  His  bailiffs  trouble  the  tenants  there,  579,  581,  585,  590. 

13  May.  Margaret  Paston  wishes  John  Jenney  put  out  of  the  commission  of 

the  peace,  582. 

20  May.  Paston's  servants  take  distresses  at  Drayton,  583, 

26  May.   Coronation  of  Elizabeth  Woodville  as  Queen. 

27  May.  Right  of  presentation  to  Drayton  church,  584. 

15  June.  Master  Popy' 8  examination,  587. 

18  June.  John  Rysing  imprisoned  at  Ipswich,  588,  590. 

18-21  June.  Examination  of  witnesses  touching  FastolPs  will,  589. 

6  July  ?  The  Duke  of  Suffolk  raising  men,  592. 

10  July.  His  men  attempt  to  enter  Hellesdon,  593,  594,  595,  598. 
The  Parson  of  Brandeston  taken,  597. 
July  ?  Henry  VI.  taken  prisoner  in  Lancashb-e,  and  committed  to  the  Tower. 

7  Aug.  Outrages  committed  by  Suffolk's  men  on  Paston's  servants  going  to 

hold  a  court  at  Drayton,  599. 
7  Aug.  Matters  concerning  John  Russe,  600,  601. 
Will  of  Nich.  Pickering,  602,  603. 
18  Aug.  Sessions  held  after  the  assizes  by  Yelverton,  604. 

Margaret  Paston  going  up  to  her  husband  in  London,  604. 
Aug.  John  Paston  examined  touching  Fastolf's  will,  606. 

14  Sept.  Margaret  Paston  in  London,  607. 

Commission  touching  right  of  presentation  to  Drayton  church,  608 . 

21  Sept.  John  Paston  desires  his  wife  to  send  him  worsted  for  doublets,  609. 

22  Sept.  Margaret  Paston  enters   Cotton  on  her   way  back  from   London, 

610,  613. 
27  Sept.  John  Salet  supposed  to  have  found  evidence  in  the  register  of  wills  in 

favour  of  Suffolk's  title  to  Hellesdon  and  Drayton,  611. 
15,  16  Oct.  Attack  on  the  lodge  at  Hellesdon  by  the  Duke  of  Suffolk,  6i6, 

617. 
18    Oct.  The  Duke  of  Norfolk  comes  of  age,  614. 

Message  from  the  King  to  Sir  William  Yelverton,  618. 
10  Nov.  Wymondham  of  Felbrigg  invites  Margaret  Paston  to  his  house,  619. 

1466 

12  May.  Friar    John    Mowth    inquires   touching   bonds   delivered   by    Friar 

Brackley  to  William  Paston,  628. 
22  May.  Death  of  John  Paston.     His  funeral,  637. 
May,  June.  Examinations  touching  FastolFs  will,  639. 
17   July.  The   Paston  family  proved  to   be  *of  worshipful  blood    since  the 

Conquest,'  641,  643. 

16  Sept.  Will  of  Agnes  Paston,  644,  645,  646. 

221 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1466 

29    Oct.  Margaret  Paston  to  Sir  John  Paston  touching  his  father's  will,  649. 
Sir  John  Paston  wishes  Arblaster  to   refuse  administration   of  his 

father's  will,  655. 
J.  Strange  proposes  a  marriage  for  Margery  Paston,  657. 

1467 

7    Feb.  Yelverton  labouring  to  get  new  witnesses  up  to  London,  661. 

Mar.  John  Paston,  the  younger,  desires  to  marry  Lady  Boleyn's  daughter, 
662,  666. 
3  April.  Witnesses  coming  up  to  London, — Abbot  of  Langley  and  Witching- 
ham.     Henry  Inglos  will  not  come  without  a  subpoena,  663. 
April.  Sir  John  Paston  hurts  his  hand  at  a  tournament  at  Eltham,  665. 
April.  Evidence  of  Friar  Mowth  touching  Master  Brackley  and  Sir  John 
Fastolf's  will,  666. 

1  May.  Wager  of  Sir  John  Paston  touching  the  marriage  of  the  Princess 

Margaret  and  *  the  Lord  Charles,'  son  and  heir  of  the  Duke  of 
Burgundy,  667. 

2  July.  Evidence  found  during  Fastolf 's  life  by  William  Worcester  touching 

the  lands  which  belonged  to  the  De  la  Poles,  670. 
II    July.  Fastolf  of  Cowhaw  intends  to  assault  Caister,  671. 
28  Aug.  Fastolf's  trustees  make  grant  to  Sir  John  Paston  of  manors  in  Caister, 

etc.,  675. 

2  Oct.  Sir  John  Paston  grants  the  manor  of  Hemnales  in  Cotton  to  the  Duke 

of  Norfolk,  677. 
Petition  of  John  Herling  of  Basingham  to  Margaret  Paston,  678. 

1468 

1 1  Jan.  Release  made  by  FastolPs  trustees  to  Sir  John  Paston  of  manors  in 

Caister,  etc.,  680. 
Proposal  to  found  Fastolf's  college  at  Cambridge,  if  it  cannot  be  at 

Caister  or  at  St.  Benet's,  681. 
William  Worcester  congratulates  Margaret  Paston  that  Caister  is  to 

be  at  her  commandment,  681. 

1 2  April.  Hugh  Fenn  intercedes  for  a  poor  tenant  in  Catts  lands,  from  whom 

a  distress  was  taken  by  Thomas  Pecock,  Sir  John  Paston's  servant. 
Titleshale  had  no  right  to  sell  Catts  to  Fastolf,  682. 
18  April.  Sir  John  Paston  is  ordered  to  be  ready  by  the  ist  June  to  accompany 
the  Princess  Margaret  into  Flanders,  683. 

3  July.   Marriage  of  Charles  the  Bold,  Duke  of  Burgundy,  and  the  Princess 

Margaret,  684. 
16  July.  General  pardon  to  William  Paston,  685. 

222 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 

1468 

18  July.  The  Earl  of  Oxford  desires  Sir  John  Paston  to  get^him  *  three  horse 

harness,'  686. 
22   July.  Sir  John  Paston  to  Anne  Haute,  687. 
10    Oct.  Howes  agrees  with  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  about  Caister,  688, 

Declaration  by  Howes  against  the  authenticity  of  FastolPs  will,  689. 
28    Oct.  The  Duchess  of  Suffolk  intends  to  enter  Cotton,  690. 
9  Not.  Sir  John  Paston  hiring  men  to  keep  Caister,  691. 
1 5  Dec.  Elizabeth  Ponyngs  complains  of  Sir  Robert  Fenys,  who  occupies  her 
lands,  692,  693. 
Sir  George  Browne  to  John  Paston,  694. 

1469 

William   Ebesham   sends  Sir  J.  Paston  an  account  for  scrivener's 
work,  695. 
7     Jan.  The  Duchess  of  SujfFolk  intends  holding  a  court  at  Cotton,  696. 
1 8    Jan.  The  King  charges  Sir  J.  Paston  and  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  to  cease 

making  assemblies,  698. 
1 7   Mar.  Sir  J.  Paston  gives  the  chapel  at  Caister  to  John  Yotton,  the  Queen's 
chaplain,  703. 
3  April.  Margaret  Paston   is   anxious   to  know   about   her   son    Sir  John's 

betrothal,  704. 
7  April.  The  King  expected  in  Norfolk,  705. 
10  April.  Lord  Scales,  in  consideration  of  Sir  J.  Paston's  engagement  to  his 
kinswoman,  Anne  Hawte,  urges  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  to  forbear 
trespassing  on  Sir  John's  lands,  706,  707. 
5  May.  Citation  of  the  Bishop  of  Winchester  and  others  as  executors  of  Sir 

J.  Fastolf,  708. 
7  May.  Archbishop  Nevill  sends  Sir  J.  Paston  £^o,  709. 
May.  Ric.  Calle  engaged  to  Margery  Paston,  710,  713. 
May.  The  Duke  of  Norfolk  intends  holding  courts  at  Caister,  710. 
22  May.   Ric.  Calle  cannot  get  a  penny  of  rent  for  Paston  in  Suffolk  or  Flegg, 

712. 
22  May.  The  King  going  to  Walsingham,  714,  715. 
[19  June].  The  King  visits  Norwich^  716. 

June.  The  lodge  at  Hellesdon  is  pointed  out  to  the  King,  716. 
June.   Robin  of  Redesdale* s  insurrection. 
9  July.  The  Queen  expected  at  Norwich  on  the  i8th  July,  718. 
9   July.  The  King  sends  a  credence  to  Clarence^  IVarivickf  and  the  Archbishop  of 
Tork,  719. 
Aug.  The  King  is  taken  prisoner  near  Coventry y  and  sent  to  Middleham, 
Aug.  Caister  besieged  by  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  720. 

Examination  of  Margery  Paston  and  Calle  by  the  Bishop  of  Norwich, 
721. 

223 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 

1469 

Sept.  Sir  John  Paston  attempts  to  negotiate  with  the  Duke  of  Norfolk 
through  the  medium  of  the  King's  Council,  722,  723,  726-9. 

12  Sept.  Margaret  Paston  warns  Sir  John  of  the  distress  of  the  garrison  at 
Caister,  724. 

15  Sept.  Sir  John  Paston  disbelieves  his  mother's  warning,  725. 

20  Sept.   Rivers  and  his  son^  Sir  J.  Woodville,  put  to  death  by  the  insurgents, 

26  Sept.  Caister  surrendered,  730-4. 

5  Oct.  John  Paston  desires  instructions   about  the  discharged  garrison  of 

Caister,  735.  * 

Oct.  The  Kingf  having  recovered  his  liberty,  returns  to  London,  736. 
[Oct.]  Richard  Calle  and  Margery  Paston  at  Blackborough  Nunnery,  737. 

6  Nov.  Sale  of  Beckham  by  Sir  John  Paston  to  Roger  Townsende,  738. 
Dec.  Two  widows  sue  an  appeal  against  John  Paston,  740,  751. 


1470 

Mar.  Insurrection  of  Sir  Robert  Welles — the  King  goes  into  Lincolnshire  to 

put  it  down,  742,  743. 
Mar.  Battle  of  Losecoatjield  [Stamford),  760. 
May.  Letters  of  W.  Worcester  about  Titchwell,  744,  745. 
22  June.  John  Paston  and  others  charged  with  felony  in  killing  men  at  the 

siege  of  Caister,  746,  747. 
22  June.  The  Duchess  of  Norfolk  promises  to  intercede  for  John  Paston  with 
her  husband,  746. 

14  July.  Agreement  of  Bishop  Waynflete  and  Sir  J.  Paston  for  the  termination 

of  disputes  about  Fastolf's  will,  750. 

15  July.  Margaret  Paston  complains  of  her  sons,  752. 
July,  Aug.  Sir  J.  Paston  pledges  plate,  748,  749,  754. 

5  Aug.  Rebellion  in  the  North. — Clarence  and  Warivick   expected  to  land  in 
England,  753. 
10  Aug.  Endowment  of  Magdalen  College,   Oxford,  with   Fastolf's  lands, 

755- 
7   Sept.  Edward  anticipates  an  invasion  of  Kent,  758. 


HENRY  VI.  RESTORED 

1470 

12    Oct.   Queen  Elizabeth  Woodville  in  Sanctuary,  759. 

12    Oct.  The  Earl  of  Oxford  befriends  John  Paston,  759. 

Dec.  The  Duke  of  Norfolk  evacuates  Caister  and  releases  it  to  Bishop 
Waynflete,  763-5. 
28   Dec.  Calthorpe,  wishing  to  reduce  his  household,  advises  Margaret  Paston 
to  provide  a  marriage  for  her  daughter  Anne,  766. 
224 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 


147 1 

14   Feb.  Lord  Beauchamp  releases  his  interest  in  Caister,  etc.  to  John  Paston, 

768. 
14  Mar.  Ednvard  IV.  lands  at  Ravenspur, — His  landing  anticipated  by  the 

Earl  of  Oxford,  769. 
19   Mar.  Oxford  orders  the  lieges  of  Norfolk  to  meet  him  at  Lynn  to  resist 
King  Edward,  770. 
[Mar.]   Clarence  goes  over  to  Edward  IV.^  771. 

Register  of  writs  against  Sir  J.  Paston  and  others,  772. 


EDWARD  IV.  RESTORED 

147 1 

1 4  April.  Battle  of  Barnet. — John  Paston  wounded,  774,  776. 
1 8  April.  Nenvs  of  Queen  Margaret^ s  landings  774. 

Escape  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford,  775. 

4  May.  Battle  of  Teivkesbury,  TTJ. 

1 2  May.  Attempt  of  the  Bastard  Falconlridge  on  London, 

2 1  May.  Death  of  Henry  VL 

23  June.  Caister  again  taken  by  a  servant  of  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  (W.  Wore. 
Itin.  368),  778. 

5  July.  Lord  Scales  (Rivers)  offers  to  befriend  John  Paston,  778. 
17  July.  The  King  signs  a  bill  of  pardon  to  John  Paston,  780. 

15  Sept.   The  Bastard  Falconbridge  beheaded,  'J^ly  'J^2. 

Sir  J.  Paston  desires  his  brother  to  watch  Caister,  781. 
Great  mortality  in  England,  781. 
28  Sept.  Sir  J.  Paston  wishes  to  have  the  measure  of  his  father's  tomb,  and 
some  measurements  at  Gresham,  782. 
Sept.  The  King  and  Queen  on  pilgrimage  to  Canterbury,  782. 
One  of  the  two  widows  married,  783. 

28  Oct.  A  general  pardon  proposed,  784. 

Inventory  of  Sir  J.  Paston's  deeds,  785. 
5   Nov.  Death  of  J.  Berney  of  Witchingham,  787. 

29  Nov.  Margaret  Paston  is  annoyed  at  Sir  John's  extravagance,  791. 

Valuation  of  Sporle  Wood,  793,  819. 

1472 

8     Jan.  Sir  John  Paston  receives  his  pardon,  795. 

Queen  Margaret  is  removed  to  Wallingford,  795. 
23     Jan.  John  Paston  urges  his  brother  to  obtain  probate  of  his  father's  will, 
796. 
John  Paston  interrupts  a  court  which  Gurney  attempts  to  hold  at 
Saxthorpe,  796. 
VOL.  VI. P  225 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


1472    • 

5    Feb.  The  one  widow  comes  up  to  London  to  sue  the  appeal,  797. 

1 7  Feb.  Sir  John  Paston  and  Anne  Haulte,  798. 

The  King  intercedes  ivith  Clarence  for  Gloucester^  79^. 
Purchasers  ofFer  for  Sporle  Wood,  798. 
30  April.  The  Earl  of  Northumberland  gone  home  into  the  North,  800. 
Sickness  prevalent,  800. 

Archbishop  Nevill  committed  to  the  Totver,  and  then  sent  to  sea,  800. 
The  Countess  of  Oxford  still  in  St.  Alar  tin*  s,  800. 
A  daughter  born  to  the  Queen  at  If^ndsor,  8<X). 
14  May,  Arrangement  with  Gumey  about  Saxthorpe,  801. 
2  5  May.  Sir  John  Paston's  lands  will  not  pay  his  debts  under  present  manage- 
ment— his  mother  will  disinherit  him  if  he  sell  any  land,  802. 
5  June.  Margaret  Paston  likely  to  be  troubled  about  Sir  J.  Fastolf 's  goods, 
803,  805. 
Henry  Heydon  has  bought  Saxthorpe  and  Titchwell,  803,  804. 
Sir  T.  Lynde's  goods,  804,  805. 
The  Earl  of  Arran  in  London,  804,  805. 
8  July.  Altercations  with  Sir  James  Gloys,  805,  810. 

20  Sept.  Sir  John  Paston  proposed  for  the  borough  of  Maldon,  808,  809. 

2 1  Sept.  Conferences  with  the  Duchess  of  Norfolk  about  Caister,  809. 
29  Sept.  John  Paston  desires  a  goshawk,  810,  812,  817. 

4  Nov.  Sir  J.  Paston  jests  with  the  Duchess  of  Norfolk  on  her  condition, 
812. 
Rivers  coming  home  from  Brittany,  812. 

The  Duchess  of  Norfolk  wishes  to  have  Margaret  Paston  with  her  at 
her  confinement,  878.     [This  letter  has  been  accidently  misplaced 
in  the  year  1475.] 
8   Nov.  Approaching  confinement  of  the  Duchess,  813. 

John  Paston  going  to  Framlingham,  813-5,  ^'7* 
19  Nov.  Dr.  Alen's  wife,  814,  816. 

22  Nov.  John  Paston  going  to  Calais,  815. 

24  Nov.  John  Paston  delivers  a  ring  to  a  lady  for  his  brother,  817, 
27   Nov.  Sale  of  Sporle  Wood,  829. 

Nov.  or  Dec.  Margaret  Paston  desires  a  license  to  have  the  sacrament  in  her 
chapel,  821. 
Sir  John  Paston  should  come  home  to  be  at  the  christening  of  the 
Duchess  of  Norfolk's  child,  821. 
7   Dec.  Agreement  of  Bishop  Waynflete  and  William  Worcester,  822. 

18  Dec.  Bishop  Waynflete  intercedes  with  the   Duchess  of  Norfolk  about 

Caister,  823. 
Christening  of  the  Duke  of  Norfolk's  child,  823. 
John  Paston  is  *  not  the  man  he  was,'  823. 
John  Paston's  petition  to  the  Duke,  824. 


2-26 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 


1473 

1 8    Jan.  Margaret  Paston  wishes  her  son  Walter  not  to  be  too  hasty  in  taking 
orders,  825. 
Illness  of  John  Berney  of  Reedham,  825. 
3    Feb.  Sir  J.  Paston  writes  from  Calais  of  a  visit  he  had  paid  to  the  Duke 

of  Burgundy's  court  at  Ghent,  826. 
8   Mar.  J.  Paston  urges  his  mother  to  borrow  j^  100  for  Sir  John,  828,  831, 

842. 
8   Mar.  *  Frenchmen  whirling  on  the  coasts,'  828,  829. 
26  Mar.  John  Blennerhasset  chosen  collector  in  Norfolk,  829,  830. 
*  Rather  the  Devil,  we  say,  than  more  taxes,'  829. 
2  April.  The  Queen  and  Prince  coming  out  of  Wales  to  Leicester ^  830. 
Murder  of  the  Count  of  Armagnac^  830. 
Lewis  XL  on  the  Somme,  830. 
1 2  April.    The  King  to  be  after  Easter  at  Leicester y  831. 
John  Paston's  tomb,  831,  843. 
Sir  John  Paston  and  Anne  Haulte,  831. 
Sir  John  Paston's  instructions  touching  Sporle,  831,  842. 
1 6  April.  Truce  between  Burgundy,  France,  and  England,  832. 

The  Earl  of  Oxford  at  Dieppe ,  meaning  to  sail  to  Scotland^  832. 
Sir  John  Paston  troubled  about  his  servants,  832,  834. 
18  May.  The  Earl  of  Wiltshire  and  Lord  Sudley  dead,  833. 
John  Paston  going  to  Compostella,  833,  836. 
Landing  of  the  Earl  of  Oxford  in  Essex y  833. 

5  July.  Edmund  Paston  at  Calais,  836. 
28  Aug.  Armour  for  Sir  John  Paston,  838. 

16  Sept.  Hastings  to  Sir  J.  Middleton  and  Sir  J.  Paston,  839. 
30  Sept.    The  Earl  of  Oxford  takes  St.  MichaeVs  Mount  by  surprise^  but  is  after- 
ivards  besieged  there, 

6  Nov.   The  dispute  between  Clarence  and  Gloucester y  841,  842. 

The  King  has  sent  for  the  Great  Sealy  841, 
22   Nov.  Death  of  Sir  James  Gloys,  842. 

A  dispensation  may  be  had  at  Rome  as  to  Anne  Haulte,  842, 

Anne  Paston  and  Yelverton,  842. 

Citations  touching  John  Paston's  will,  842,  843. 
25   Nov.   The  Earl  of  Oxford  still  besieged  at  St.  MichaePs  Mounty  843. 

Will  Margaret  Paston  dwell  at  Caister,  if  it  be  recovered  ?  843. 

Tenants  of  Sporle  troubled,  844. 


1474 

Feb.  Lewis  XL  at  Amiens,  846. 
20    Feb.    The  Earl  of  Oxford  surrenders,  and  is  compelled  to  sue  for  his  lifcy  846. 
Sir  J.  Paston  expects  to  have  Caister  again,  846. 

227 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


1474 

26  April.  Hastings  to  John  Paston  at  Guisnes,  847. 
25   July.  John  Paston,  Elizabeth  Eberton,  and  another  lady,  850,  858. 
24    Oct.  Will.  Paston  pledges  plate  to  Eliz.  Clere,  851. 
3   Nov.  The  Vicar  of  Paston  to   Margaret  Paston,  complaining  of  Henry 
Warns  who  intimidates  the  tenants  at  Paston,  852,  853.     [These 
two  letters  should  have  been  placed  in  the  year  1479.] 
[Nov.]  Sir  John  Paston  recovered  from  illness,  856. 

Money  matters  between  Sir  J.  Paston,  and  Townsend,  and  his  uncle 

William,  856,  857,  861,  863,  864. 
Edmund  Paston  well  amended,  856. 
Sir  James  Gloys'  books,  856,  857,  863,  865. 
20  Nov.  Sir  J.  Paston  redeems  Sporle,  857. 

Agnes  Paston  recovered  from  illness,  857. 
Margaret,  daughter  of  William  Paston,  dead,  857. 
John  Paston  and  Lady  Walgrave,  858,  860. 
John  Paston  and  Stockton's  daughter,  858. 
A  French  embassy  in  London,  858. 
[About  8  Dec]  Edward  iv.  visits  Norwich,  863. 
1 1   Dec.  Lady  Walgrave  rejects  John  Paston's  ring — her  muskball,  860. 


1475 

17     Jan.  Sir  J.  Paston  going  to  Flanders,  861. 

Siege  of  Neuss  by  Charles  the  Bold^  861. 
29    Jan.   William  Paston  endeavouring  to  get  possession  of  Oxnead,  862. 
Sporle  Wood  cannot  be  sold  in  whole  to  advantage,  863,  865. 
Sir  J.  Paston  ill  in  his  eye  and  leg,  863,  865. 
5    Feb.  Efforts  for  the  recovery  of  Caister,  864. 

Sir  J.  Paston  detained  at  Calais,  864. 
5  Mar.  Margaret  Paston  will  apply  to  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  for  the 
license  to  have  sacrament  in  her  chapel,  866. 
29   Mar.  The  Duchess  of  Norfolk  going  to  Walsingham,  868. 
23  May.  Margaret  Paston  writes  of  money  difficulties — *the  King  goeth  so 
near  us  in  this  country,'  871. 
Pecock  has  paid  two  taxes  for  Sir  J.  Paston,  871. 
Sir  J.  Paston's  brothers  going  over  sea,  871. 
13  June.  Edmund  Paston  going  over  to  Calais,  873. 

10  Aug.  The  Duchess  of  York  at  St.  Bennet's,  874. 
29   Aug.   Peace  of  Pecquigny,  ^']^, 

11  Sept.   The  King's  army  returned  to  Calais,  875. 

The  King  had  spoken  to  the  Duke  of  Norfolk  about  Caister,  875, 

877. 
Sir  John  Paston  the  worse  for  Calais  air,  875. 

228 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 


1475 

10    Oct.  How  to  get  Caister  again,  876. 

The  King  going  to  Walsingham,  876. 
23    Oct.  John  Paston  sick,  877. 

Petition  of  Sir  J.  Paston  to  the  King  for  recovery  of  Caister,  879. 


1476 

17    Jan.  Death  of  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  881. 

21     Jan.  Sir  John  Paston  gone  up  to   London  to  petition  the  King  about 

Caister,  882. 
23     Jan.  Sir  John  Paston's  *  sending  to  Caister'  is  ill  taken,  883,  884,  885. 
2  Mar.  John  Paston  recommends  Richard  Stratton  to  Lord  Hastings,  886. 
John  Paston  to  [Margery  Brews] — a  love-letter,  887. 
12  Mar.  Sir  John  Paston  crosses  with  Hastings  to  Calais,  888, 
21    Mar.  Lord  Rivers  at  Rome,  889. 

Conquest  of  Lorraine  by  Charles  the  Bold,  889. 
6  May.  John  Paston  welcomes  his  brother  Sir  John  again  to  England,  890. 
John  Paston  thinks  of  Mr.  Fitzwalter's  sister,  890. 
27  May.  The  King  has  promised  that  Sir  J.  Paston  shall  have  Caister,  891. 


1477 

5     Jan.  Defeat  and  death  of  Charles  the  Bold  at  Nancij  900. 

Letters  about  John  Paston  and  Margery  Brews,  894-9. 
1 4    Feb.  Great  council  begun  yesterday,  900. 

8   Mar.  Dame  Eliz.  Brews  desires  to  meet  Margaret  Paston  at  Norwich,  and 
not  at  Langley,  901. 

8  Mar.  Terms  offered  by  Sir  Thomas  Brews,  902,  904,  905. 

9  Mar.  The  *  matter  of  Mrs.  Barly,'  903. 

Letters  of  John  Pympe  to  Sir  J.  Paston,  906-8. 

Sir  J.  Paston  refuses  to  help  his  brother's  marriage,  909,  916. 

The  match  between  John  Paston  and  Margery  Brews,  910,  911, 

9i.3»9i5- 
1 4  April.  Lewis  xi.  has  gained  many  of  the  Duke  of  Burgundy's  towns,  912. 
23  June.  Debt  of  Sir  J.  Paston  to  Henry  Colet,  914. 

7  Aug.  Manor  of  Sporle  mortgaged  to  Townsend,  916,  917. 
II   Aug.  Margaret  Paston  will  not  pay  Sir  John  Paston's  debt  to  Cocket,  917. 
Sir  J.  Paston  to  pay  his  brother  William's  board  and  school-hire, 
917. 
17   Aug.  Lewis  XL  besieges  St.  Omer^s,  and  burns  Cassel,  918. 
22  Aug.  Manors  of  Agnes  and  William  Paston,  919. 

229 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


1477 

3 1    Oct.  Sir  John  Paston's  will,  920. 

19   Nov.  Wreck  at  Winterton — Sir  J.  Paston's  claims  as  lord  of  the  manor, 

921,  922. 
18   Dec.  Margery  Paston  with  child,  923. 

1478 

21     Jan.  Dr.  Yotton  and  the  chapel  at  Caister,  925. 

Marriage  of  Richard^  Duke  of  Tor k,  and  Anne  Moivlray,  925. 
John  Paston  going  to  take  his  wife  Margery  to  see  her  father,  925. 
3    Feb.  Dr.  Pykenham  now  Judge  of  the  Arches,  926. 
A  match  for  Edmund  Paston,  926. 

A  present  of  dates  from   Margery   Paston    to    her    mother-in-law 
Margaret,  926. 

18  Feb.  Execution  of  the  Duke  of  Clarence. 

21  Mar.  Constance  Reynforth  to  Sir  John  Paston,  928. 
5  May,  Woods  at  Hellesdon  and  Drayton,  929. 

The  Duke  of  Suffolk's  claim  there,  929,  930. 
13  May.  Tomb  of  John  Paston  the  father  not  begun,  930. 

The  King  buying  cloth  of  gold,  930. 

19  May.  Walter  Paston  at  Oxford,  931. 

20  May.  The  Duke  of  Suffolk  at  Hellesdon,  932. 

William  Worcester  and  Sir  William  Bocking,  932. 

Margaret  Paston  very  ill,  932. 
27  May.  Margaret  Paston  sends  cloth  of  gold  for  her  husband's  tomb,  933. 

Sir  J.  Paston's  claim  in  Hellesdon  and  Drayton,  933. 

Sir  J.  Paston  going  to  marry  a  kinswoman  of  the  Queen,  933. 
31    July.  Oxnead  Parsonage,  934-7,  943. 
25  Aug.  Birth  of  John  Paston's  son  Christopher,  936. 

The  Duke  of  Buckingham  going  on  pilgrimage  to  Walsingham,  936. 

William  Brandon  a  ravisher,  936. 

The  Earl  of  Oxford  at  Hammes,  936. 
7  Nov.  William  Paston,  junior,  at  Eton,  939,  942. 


1479 

18    Jan.  Errands  to  Marlingford,  940. 

2    Feb.  Dr.  Pykenham  informs  Margaret  Paston  that  her  son  Walter  is  not 
yet  qualified  to  hold  a  benefice,  941. 

4  Mar.  Walter  Paston  ready  to  take  his  B.A.  and  proceed  in  law,  944. 
22  May.  He  would  be  inceptor  before  Midsummer,  945. 
30  June.  He  takes  his  degree,  946. 

230 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 

1479 

7  July.  Plate  of  William  Paston,  947,  951. 
18  Aug.  Will  of  Walter  Paston,  950. 
21   Aug.  Deaths  of  Agnes  Paston  and  Walter,  952. 
26  Aug.  William  Paston  claims  the  manor  of  Marlingford,  953. 

Sir  J.  Paston  inquires  about  his  grandmother's  will,  954. 
29    Oct.  Sir  J.  Paston's  dispute  with  Suffolk,  etc.,  956. 

He  is  very  ill,  956. 

Bishop  Morton  offers  to  mediate  between  him  and  his  uncle  William, 

956,  957. 
6  Nov.  The  tenants  of  Crowmer  know  not  who  shall  be  their  lord,  957. 
25  Nov.  Money  received  and  spent  at  the  manor  court  at  Cressingham,  961. 
Nov.  Death  and  burial  of  Sir  John  Paston,  962. 

John  Paston  wishes  his  brother  Edmund  to  enter  Marlingford,  etc. 

in  his  name,  962. 
Proceedings  of  Edmund  Paston  at  Marlingford  and  Oxnead,  963. 
Dec.  The  great  mortality  abated,  965. 

Bishop  Morton  promises  to  favour  John  Paston  against  his  uncle. 

Injuries  done  to  John  Paston  by  his  uncle  William,  966. 

1479-80 

Touching  a  tombstone  for  Sir  John  Paston,  967. 
Inventory  of  plate,  968. 

1480 

24   Feb.  William  Paston  to  John  King,  farmer  of  Harwelbury,  970. 

John,  Prior  of  Bromholm,  to  John  Paston,  desiring  him  to  procure 
of  the  Queen  timber  for  his  *  dortour,'  972. 

About  148 1 ? 
Edmund  Paston  will  see  a  widow  in  Worsted  for  his  brother  William, 

974- 
Edmund  Paston  desires  his  mother's  forgiveness  that  he  and  his  wife 

have  not  waited  on  her,  975. 

1482 

4   Feb.  Margaret  Paston's  will,  978. 

John  Paston  to  his  mother  about  her  will,  979. 
I   Nov.  Tenants  of  Marlingford  molested  by  William  Paston's  officers,  982, 

Declaration  of  William  Barker  and  Margaret,  widow  of  William 

Worcester,  in  behalf  of  William  Paston,  985. 
Inventory  of  John  Paston's  books,  987. 
Verses  by  a  lady  to  an  absent  lord,  988. 

231 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


EDWARD  V 

1483 

1 1  June.   Richard,  Duke  of  Gloucester,  to  Lord  Nevill,  desiring  him  to  come 
up  to  London  with  a  body  of  men,  992. 
Elizabeth,  Duchess  of  Suffolk,  to  John  Paston,  requesting  him  to 
leave  his  lodging  for  a  few  days,  993. 


RICHARD  III 

1483 

10   Oct.  The  Duke  of  Norfolk  to  John  Paston  on  an  insurrection  in  the 
Weald  of  Kent,  994. 
Oct.  The  Duke  of  Buckingham^ s  rebellion, 

1484 

I  May.  An  order  by  the  Duke  of  Suffolk  to  a  farmer  to  pay  money,  997. 

Complaints  of  John  Paston  against  his  uncle  William,  998. 
4  Nov.  Death  of  Margaret  Paston,  999. 

Manors  of  Stansted  and  Harwelbury,  1000. 

1485 

23  June.   Proclamation  of  Richard  III,  against  Henry  Tudor,  1 00 1. 
I   Aug.  The  Earl  of  Richmond  lands  at  Milf or d  Haven,  1002. 

22  Aug.  The  Battle  of  Bosworth, 

HENRY  VII 

1485 

23  Sept.  Dame  Elizabeth  Browne  to  John  Paston  about  the  circumstances  of 

her  father's  death,  1003. 
3    Oct.  The  Countess  of  Surrey  complains  to  J.  Paston  that  her  husband's 
servants  have  been  discharged  by  Lord  Fitzwalter,  1004. 
20    Oct.  Proclamations  ordered  against  rebels  confederated  with  the  Scots, 
1006. 

i486 

24  Feb.  Alice,  Lady  Fitzhugh,  to  John  Paston  about  her  *  daughter  Lovel's' 

suit  for  her  husband,  1008. 
19  May     Viscount  Lovel  escaped  into  the  Isle  of  Ely,  1009. 
232 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 

1487 

24    Jan.  Lord  Lovers  adherents,  1 01 2. 

The  Prior  of  Norwich  touching  a  bequest  of  Judge  Paston  to  his 
monastery,  1013. 
May.   Rebellion  of  Lambert  Simneii  IOI4,  1015. 
16  June.  Battle  of  Stoke f  1016. 

Dame  Elizabeth  Brews  to  Sir  J.  Paston  for  twelve  men  in  harness 
to  recover  a  distress,  1017. 

1488.? 

The   Bishop  of  Chester  asks  of  widows  more  than  they  can  pay, 
1018. 

1486-95 

Sir  J.  Paston  to  Dame  Margery,  his  wife,  for  a  plaster  for  the 
King's  attorney,  James  Hobart,  1019. 

1488 

Sir  Edward  IVoodvilie  goes  over  unauthorised  to  aid  the    Duke  of 

Brittany  f  1026. 
Rebellion  against  James  III.  in  Scotland,  1026. 

1489 

2    Feb.  A  whale  taken  ofFThornham,  1029,  1030. 

7  Mar.  The  Earl  of  Northumberland  agrees  with  the  King  about  keeping 
out  the  Scots,  1 03 1 . 
Intended  progress  of  the  King  to  Norfolk,  103 1,  1033. 

1486-9 
Edmund  Paston  appointed  receiver  of  lands  of  Lord  Scales,  1034, 

1489 

22  April.  Henry  vii.  to  the  Earl  of  Oxford— favourable  news  of  the  war  in 

Brittany y  1 036. 
28  April.  Insurrection  in   Yorkshire — the  Eari  of  Northumberland  killed,    IO37, 

1039. 
6  May.  Sir  J.  Paston  ordered  to  meet  the  King  at  Cambridge  with  a  body 

of  men,  1038,  1039.  • 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


1490 

27    Jan.  Sherwood,  Bishop  of  Durham,  to  Sir  John  Paston,  1040. 

Humorous  petition  of  Sir  J.  Paston  to  Lord  Fitzwalter,  1042. 
The  Earl  of  Surrey  certifies  that  Thomas  Hartford  is  not  a  Scotch- 
man, 1043. 

I49I 

6  April.  Complaints  of  the  King  of  Denmark  against  English  ships  resorting 

to  Iceland,  1046. 
[Sept.]  The  old  and  new  Bailiffs  of  Yarmouth  ask  Sir  J.  Paston's  mediation 

with  the  Earl  of  Oxford,  1048. 
Oct.  The  Earl  of  Oxford  to  Sir  J.  Paston  about  Richard  Barkeley  and 

his  ship,  1049-51. 

1492 

18    Feb.  Preparations  for  the  invasion  of  France,  1053,  1054. 
30  April.  William  Barnard  to  William  Paston  complaining  that  he  has  been 
obliged  to  keep  a  prisoner  at  his  own  cost,  1055. 

1492-3 

Letters  of  Elizabeth,  Duchess  of  Norfolk,  in  behalf  of  Thomas 
Martin,  1061,  1064. 

1493 

Proposal  of  Sir  R.  Clere  for  the  marriage  of  Sir  J.  Paston's  son, 
1064. 

1494 

Nov.   Creation  of  the  King's  second  son  as  Duke  of  Tori — Knights  of  the 
Bath  made  on  the  occasion,  1058. 

1495 

3    July.  Attempt  of  Per  kin  Warheck  to  land  at  Deal,  i059>  1060. 

Young  William  Paston,  at  Sir  J.  Fortescue's  place  on  account  of  the 
plague  at  Cambridge,  1062. 

I497-I503 

Margaret,  Countess  of  Richmond,  to  [Sir  J.  Paston  ?]  touching  the 
inheritance  of  the  daughters  of  William  Paston,  1063. 


CHRONOLOGICAL  TABLE 


1499 

20  Aug.  Sir  J.  Paston  to  inquire  who  were  privy  to  the  Earl  of  Suffolk's  flight 
beyond  sea,  1065. 

1500 

20  Mar.  Sir  J.  Paston  to  be  ready  to  attend  on  the  Princess  Catherine  of 
Spain  on  her  arrival  in  England,  1066. 

Before  1503 
Proposed  marriage  of  Clippesby  with  a  niece  of  Sir  J.  Paston,  1069 

After  1503 

William  Paston,  Sir  John's  brother,  *  erased  in  mind,'  1072. 
The  Earl  of  Oxford's  steward  to  the  *  Black  Knight,'  in  Latin  verse, 
1073. 

6    Feb.  Award  touching  East  Beckham  between  Sir  John  Paston  and  Roger 

Townsend,  1074. 
6  Sept.  Archbishop  Warham  to  William  Paston  on  the  death  of  his  father. 

Sir  John,  107  5. 
John   Kendal  to  [William  Paston?]  touching  lands  bought  of  the 

executors  of  Nich.  Pickering  of  Filby,  1076. 

1506 

31     Jan.  Account  of  the    Visit  of  Philip,  King  of  Castile^  to  Henry   VII.  at 
Windsor,  1078. 


235 


INDEX 

LETTERS    AND    TITLES 


[In  this  Index  will  be  found  the  names  of  the  writers  of  the  different  letters,  and  of  the 
persons  written  to,  with  the  titles  of  other  papers.  The  numbers  referred  to  here  are 
those  of  the  letters,  while  the  General  Index  refers  to  the  volume  and  page,  in  which  each 
name  will  be  found.  For  the  convenience,  however,  of  persons  using  this  Index,  the 
Nos.  contained  in  each  volume  are  indicated  at  the  head  of  every  page.  J 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  i  to  259.— Vol.  III.,  260  to  487.— Vol.  IV.,  488  to  694.— 
Vol.  V.  695  to  935.— Vol.  VI.,  936  to  1088. 


Alyard,  Edmund. 

Ta  Margaret  Paston,  944. 

Alyngton,    Giles,    and     Roger 
Darcy. 

From  William  Makefyrr,  1078. 

Ancestry  of  the  Pastons,  643. 
Andrew,  Thomas. 

To  William  Paston,  1027,  1028. 

Anne,  Mrs. 

From  Sir  John  Paston,  687. 

Anonymous. 

To ,  2,  30,  165,  446. 

To  H.  B.,  of  Lincoln,  405. 

To  Paston,  J.,  56,  80,  145,  495,  574,  1082. 

To  Paston,  Sir  John,  690. 

To  Paston,  Margaret,  501,  608,  977. 

To  Rothwell,  Master,  570. 

To  Yelverton  and  Paston,  414. 

Arblaster,  James. 

To  Maiden,  BailiflFof,  808. 
To  Paston,  John,  636. 

AuBRY,  John. 

To  Sir  Henry  Spelman,  718. 


B.  D.  M.  S. 

To  John  Paston,  631. 

Balkey,  T. 

To  John  Paston,  108 1. 

Barker,  William. 

7l>Fastolf,  Sir  J.,  265. 

To  Paston,  John,  379. 

To  Paston,  Margaret,  986. 

To  Worcester,  William,  287. 

From  Fastolf,  318. 

From  Fastolf  (to  Barker  and  Howys),  144. 

Barnard,  William. 
To  William  Paston,  1055. 

Beauchamp,  Lord  J. 
To  Sir  Thomas  Howes,  479. 
From  Sir  John  Paston,  674. 

Beaumont,  John,  Viscount. 

From  Buckingham,  Humphrey,  Duke  of, 

of,  65. 
From  Jersey,  Bailiff  and  Jurats  of,  68. 
From  Lovel,  John,  Lord,  381. 
From  Norfolk,  Eleanor,  Duchess  of,  382. 
From  Northwood,  John,  78. 
From  Salisbury,  Ric,  Earl  of,  361. 
From  Tailboys,  Will.,  100. 
From  Willoughby,  John,  33. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  i  to  259.— Vol.  III., 
Beckham,  East,  1074. 

Bedingfield,  Edmund,  (knighted 
1483)- 

To  Paston,  Sir  John,  918. 
To  Paston,  John,  1014. 
From  Earl  of  Oxford,  1015. 

Berney,  John. 

Memorandum  of,  442. 

To  Paston,  John,  199,  470,  471. 

To  Paston,  John  and  W.  Rokewode,  467. 

From  Fastolf  (to  Berney  and  others),  164, 

171,  203,  204. 
From  Fastolf  (to  Berney  and  Henry  Ing- 

lose),  39. 
From  Worcester,  William  (Botoner),  399. 

Berry,  Henry. 

To  John  Paston,  556. 

Bill  of  Costs,  788. 

Bingham,  Richard. 
To  Fastolf,  308. 

Black  Knight,  The. 

From  the  Steward  of  Earl  of  Oxford,  1073. 

Blount,  Sir  Walter. 
To  Prior  of  Norwich,  573. 

Booking,  John. 

To  Fastolf,  322,  366. 

To  Paston,  John,  330,  331,  334,  345»  354- 

To  White,  William,  169. 

To  Yelverton,  Paston,  and  Filongley,  396. 

From  Fastolf  (to  Booking  and  others),  156, 

158,  160,  161,  173,  318. 
From  Windsor,  H. ,  299. 
From  Worcester,  W.,   (to   Bocking  and 

Paston),  305. 
From  Yelverton,  155. 

Boleyn,  Sir  Geoffrey. 
To  John  Paston,  428. 

Botoner,  W. — See  Worcester. 

Bourchier,  Thos.,  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  afterwards  Car- 
dinal. 

7b  Fastolf,  Sir  J.,  326. 

To  Paston,  J.,  344. 

From  Thomas  Howes,  688. 

Declaration  of,  702. 

238 


260  to  487. — Vol,  IV.,  488  to  694. — 
Bowet,  Amye. 

To ,  2. 

Brackley,  Friar. 

T-tf  Paston,  J.,   177,  338,  339,  383,  395, 
404,  409,  415,  416,  417,  418,  426,  429. 
To  Paston,  William,  403. 

From ,  37. 

Whitsunday,  Sermon  of,  436. 

Breton,  John,  of  Hadley. 

To  William  Paston,  1085. 

Brews,  Dame  Elizabeth. 

To  John,  or  Sir  John,  Paston,  the  youngest, 

894,  895,  896,  1017,  1018. 
From  Margaret  Paston,  913. 

Brews,  Margery. 

To  John  Paston,  897,  898. 
From  John  Paston,  887. 
Paston,  John,  and  M.  B.,  910. 

Su  also  Paston,  Margery. 

Brews,   Thomas,  and   Sir  Miles 
Stapleton. 

From  Earl  of  Oxford,  133. 

Brews,  Sir  Thomas. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  902. 
Memorandum  of,  905. 

Bromholm,  John,  Prior  of. 
7<?  John  Paston,  431,  972. 

Bromholm,  Nicholas,  Prior  of. 

To  William  Paston,  8. 

Bromholm,  Robert,  Prior  of. 

To  John  Paston,  84. 

Browne,  Dame  Elizabeth. 

To  John  Paston,  1003. 
Will  of,  App.  6. 

Browne,  Sir  George. 
To  John  Paston,  694. 

Browne,  Robert. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  422,  711. 

Buckingham,  Humphrey,  Duke  of. 
To  Viscount  Beaumont,  65. 


INDEX  OF  LETTERS  AND  TITLES 


Vol.  v.,  69s  to  935.- 
Burton,  J. 

75?  Margaret  Paston,  444. 


Caister  Castle,  Besiegers  of. 

From  Writtill,  726. 

Caistkr  College. 

Foundation  of,  571. 

Calle,  Richard. 

To  Paston,  John,  Senior,  152, 458, 485, 492, 

498,  499,  507.  522,  523,  524,  538,  558, 

568,  593. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  587,  663,  712,  717. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  the  younger,  487, 

1067,  1068. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  464,  820,  955. 
To  Paston,  Margery,  713. 
From  Paston,  John  (to  Calle  and  others), 

540,  601,  575,  591. 
Bill  of  Costs  of,  788. 

Call,  Robert. 

To  John  Paston,  647. 

Calthorpe,  W. 

To  John  Paston,  367. 

Canon,    Thomas,    the    elder,    of 

Mekyll  Pagrave. 
To].  Paston,  281. 

Canterbury,  Archbishop  of,  (John 
Stafford). 

From  John  Hauteyn,  63. 

Chambre,  Eleanor. 

To  William  Paston,  45. 

Chamberlain,  Sir  Roger. 
To  Agnes  Paston,  64. 

Chancellor,  the  Lord. 

From  John  Paston,  530. 

Chedworth,     John,     Bishop    of 

Lincoln. 
To  John  Paston,  302. 

Clarence,  George,  Duke  of. 

From  Edward  IV.,  719. 


Vol.  VI.,  936  to  1088. 
Clere,  Edmund. 

To  John  Paston,  270. 

Clere,  Elizabeth. 

To  Paston,  John,  94,  1 14,  447. 

To  Paston,  Margaret,  654. 

Clere,  Robert. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  1023. 

Clopton,  John. 

To  John  Paston,  209,  242,  243. 

Coke,  William,  and  others. 
From  Sir  John  Fastolf,  107. 

Cole,  William  and  others. 
From  Sir  John  Fastolf,  104. 

Cook,  John. 

From  W.  Coting,  697. 

COTING,  W. 

To  Cook,  John,  697. 

To  Paston,  John,  89. 

To  Paston,  Margaret,  445. 

Crane,  Alice. 

To  Margaret  Paston,  296. 

Crane,  John. 

Tb  John  Paston,  121,  285. 

Cressingham  Manor,  961- 
Croft,  Richard. 

From  John  Paston  (the  younger),  989. 

Cromwell,  Lord. 

7(7  John  Paston,  313. 

Crowmer,  Robert. 
To  Sir  John  Paston,  1060. 

Cryne,  T. 

To  John  Paston,  980. 


Dalling,  William. 
Petition  of,  25. 


239 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  i  to  259.— Vol.  III. 
Damme,  John. 

To  Paston,  John,  95. 

To  Paston,  John  (from  Damme  and  Gres- 
ham),  151. 

Daniel,  Thomas. 

From  Rob.  Wenyngton,  90. 

Darcy,  Roger,  and  Giles  Alyng- 

TON. 
From  William  Makefyrr,  1078. 

Daubeney,  J. 

To  Paston,  John,  521. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  1022. 
From  Lampet,  Ralph,  542. 
From  Paston  J.  (to  Daubeney  and  others), 
575»  591. 

Daune,  Cicely. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  679.  . 

Daverse,  T. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  660. 

Davy,  John. 

To  John  Paston,  433. 

Debenham,      Tymperley,       and 

White. 
71?  John  Paston,  189. 

Denyes,  Thomas. 

To  Paston,  John,  123,  141,  181,  239,  244, 

245>  454,  455- 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  463. 

DOLLAY,  R. 

To  John  Paston,  248. 

Dory,  John. 

To  John  Paston,  353. 

DowBiGGiNG,  John. 

To  John  Paston,  506. 

Downyng,  John. 
To  Edmund  Paston,  991. 

Durham,  Bishop  of  (John   Sher- 
wood). 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  1040. 
240 


,  360  to  487.— Vol.  IV.,  488  to  694.— 

Ebesham,  William. 
To  Sir  John  Paston,  695. 

Edingthorpe,  Parson  of. 

To ,  18. 

To  William  Sewardby,  3. 

Edward  IV. 

To  Clarence,  Warwick,  and  Archbishop 

Nevill,  717. 
To  Fynys,  Sir  Robert,  693. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  683,  698. 
To  Swan,  William,  758. 
To  Yarmouth,  Bailiffs  of,  641. 
From  Paston,  John,  Senior,  569. 
From  Paston,  Sir  John,  879. 

Elizabeth,  Queen  of  Henry  VII. 
To  Earl  of  Oxford,  1020. 

Errands  to  Marlingford,  94o. 

Estgate,  John. 
To ,  602. 

Eye,  Bailiffs,  etc.  of. 

To  John,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  760. 


Fastolf,  Sir  John. 

Memoranda  by,  159,  166. 

Claims  against  the  Crown,  309,  310. 

To  Berney,  John,  and  Thomas   Howes, 

164,  171,  174. 
To  Berney,  Howes,  and  Shipdham,  203. 
To  Berney,  John,  and  Henry  Inglose,  39. 
To  Berney,  Paston,  and  Howes,  204. 
To  Bocking  or  Barker  for  J.  Paston,  318. 
To  Fastolf,  John,  and  John  Kirteling,  97. 
To  Filongley,   Henry,  and  John  Paston, 

271. 
To  Howes,  Thomas,  122,  125,  130,  138, 

153,  162,  186,  188,  202,  205,  251. 
To  Howes  and  W.  Barker,  144. 
To  Howes  and  J.  Bocking,  160,  161,  142. 
To  Howes,  Bocking,  and  Shipdham,  156. 
To  Howes,  W.  Coke,  and  W.  Shipdham, 

107. 
To  Howes,  W.  Cole,  and  W.  Shipdham, 

104. 
To  Howes,   Th.  Green,  and  Shipdham, 

137. 
To  Howes,  Jenney,  and  Bocking,  158. 
To  Molyneux,  Nich.,  304. 


INDEX  OF  LETTERS  AND  TITLES 


Vol.  v.,  695  to  935.- 

Fastolf,  Sir  John — continued. 

To  Norfolk,  Duke  of,  277,  278. 

To  Paston,  John,  92,  261,  266,  269,  272, 
277,  279,  286,  289,  290,  293,  298,  307, 
312,  318,  321,  323,  329,  335,  336,  337, 

341,  349,  350.  351.  357,  380- 
To  Paston,  Molyneux,  and  West,  319. 
To  Paston  and  Yelverton,  296. 
To  Paston  and  Howes,  376. 
To  Scrope,  Stephen,  360. 
To  Waller,  Ric,  264. 
To  Whytyngham,  Lady,  317. 
To  Yelverton,  W. ,  359. 
From  Bingham,  Ric,  308. 
From  Booking,  John,  322. 
From  Bourchier,  Archbishop,  326. 
From  Filongley,  Henry,  340. 
From  Howes,  Th.,  192. 
From  Oxford,  Earl  of,  168. 
From  Paston,  J.,  and  T.  Howes,  368. 
From  Worcester  (Botoner),  W.,  364,  365. 
From  Yelverton,  W.,  154. 
Will  of,  38s,  386,  387. 
Will  of,  depositions  touching,  565. 
Will  of,  examinations  touching,  606,  639. 
Inventory  of  Goods,  388. 
Wardrobe  of,  389. 
College  of,  390,  752. 
Goods  of,  638. 
Lands  of,  750. 

Sir  J.  F.  and  John  Paston,  392. 
See  also  Paston,  William,  son  of  the  Judge. 

Fastolf,  John,  and  John  Kirte- 

LING. 
From  Sir  John  Fastolf,  97. 

Felbrigge,  Sir  John. 

To  John  Paston,  625. 

Fenn,  Hugh. 

To  Paston,  John,  277,  328. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  682. 

Filongley,  Henry. 

To  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  340. 

Filongley,    Henry,    and    John 
Paston. 

From  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  271. 

Filongley,   Henry,     J.    Paston, 
and  Yelverton. 

From  J.  Booking,  396. 
VOL.  VI. Q 


Vol.  VI.,  936  to  1088. 

Fitzhugh,  Alice,  Lady. 
To  John  Paston,  1008. 

Fitzwalter,  John,  Lord. 

To  Paston,  John,  loii. 

To  Paston,  Sir  John,  1024,  1025. 

From  Sir  John  Paston,  1042. 

French  Prisoners,  Report  of,  512. 

Funeral  Expenses  of  Lady  Kathe- 
rine  Howard,  622. 

Fynys,  Sir  Robert. 
From  Edward  iv.,  693. 


Gloucester,  Richard,  Duke  of. 

To  Lord  Nevill,  992. 

Gloys,  James. 

To  Paston,  John,  81,  178,  179,  300,  482. 
75?  Paston,  Sir  John,  650. 
From  Margaret  Paston,  825. 

Gnateshale,  Thomas. 

To  Margaret  Paston,  634,  635. 
From  Lord  Scales,  76. 

GOLDEWELL,  NICHOLAS. 
From  William  Paston,  937. 

Grant  from  the  Crown,  473. 
Grene,  Thomas. 

To  William  Yelverton,  651. 

From  Fastolf  (to  Grene  and  others),  137. 

Gresham,  Tenants  of. 
From  Lord  Molynes,  86. 

Gresham,  James. 

To  Damme,  Simon,  670. 

To  Paston,  John,  74,  96,  127,  129,  131, 

146,  147,  198,  303,  325,  348,  460,  513, 

545.  555- 
To    Paston,    J.    (from   Gresham   and    J. 

Damme),  151. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  771. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  546. 
To  Paston,  William,  51. 
To  White,  Master,  128. 

241 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  i  to  259.— Vol.  III., 

Gresham,  James — continued. 

From  Paston,  J.,  136. 
From    Paston,  J.,   to    Margaret    Paston, 
James  Gresham,  and  Calle,  661. 

Grey  of  Hastings,  Edmund,  Lord. 

To  J.  Paston,  250. 
From  J.  Paston,  252. 

Griggs,  T. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  1029. 

Gyne,  John. 

To  Paston,  John,  29, 
To  Paston,  Will.,  52. 


H.  B.  of  Lincoln. 
To  Anonymous,  405. 

Hansson,  Christopher. 

To  J.  Paston,  419. 

Harward,  William. 

From  Elizabeth,  Countess  of  Surrey,  1005. 

Harwellbury,     Stansted     and, 
1000. 

Haryson,  Lumen. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  104 1. 

Hastings,  Lord. 

To  Middleton,  Sir  John  of,  and   Sir  J. 

Paston,  839. 
To  Paston,  John,  847,  848. 
From  John  Paston,  886. 

Hawte,  James. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  714. 

Hawteyn,  John. 

Deposition  against,  46. 
To  Stafford,  John,  Archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury, 63. 
Oxnead,  50. 

Hellesden,     Duke    of    Suffolk's 
attack  on,  615. 

Henry  vi. 

To  Nedham,  John,  and  John  Littleton, 
411. 

242 


260  to  487. — Vol.  IV.,  488  to  694. — 

Henry  vi. — continued. 

To  Paston,  John,  139. 

From  Richard,  Duke  of  York,  143. 

Memorial  to,  282. 

Henry  vii. 

To  Oxford,  Earl  of,  1036,  1046. 

To  Paston,  John,  or  Sir  John,  loio,  1066. 

Herlyng,  John,  of  Basyngham. 
Petition  of,  to  *  Lady'  Paston,  678. 

Hert,  Sir  Thomas. 

To  Margaret  Paston,  990, 

Heveningham,  Sir  John. 

To  Paston,  John,  Senior,  404. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  191. 

Heydon,  Sir  Henry. 
To  Sir  John  Paston,  1056. 

Heydon,  Tuddenham  and,  Oppres- 
sions of,  176. 

Howard,  Sir  John,  658,  669. 

From  Duke  of  Norfolk,  668. 
Howard,  Lady  Katherine,  622. 

HowYS,  Sir  Thomas. 

To  Bourchier,  Cardinal,  688. 
TVFastolf,  Sir  J.,  192. 
To  Fastolf,  Sir  J.  (from  Howes  and  Pas- 
ton), 368. 
To  Paston,  John,  259,  263,  267,  268,  273, 

509. 

From  Beauchamp,  Lord,  479. 

i^rtfw  Fastolf,  Sir  J.,  122,  125,  130,  138, 
153,  162,  186,  188,  202,  205,  251. 

From  Fastolf,  Sir  J,  (to  Howes  and  Pas- 
ton), 376. 

From  Fastolf,  Sir  J.  (to  Howes  and  others), 
104,  107,  137,  144,  156,  158,  160,  161, 
164,  171,  173,  174,  203,  204. 

Declaration  of,  672. 

Hungerford,  Lord,  and  Robert 
Whityngham. 

To  Margaret  of  Anjou,  480. 

Inglose,      Henry,     and      John 
Berney. 

From  Sir  John  Fastolf,  39. 


INDEX  OF  LETTERS  AND  TITLES 


Ingham,  Walter. 

Petition  of,  238. 


Vol.  v.,  695  to  935. —Vol.  VI.,  936  to  1088. 

Knapton,  Manor  of,  960. 


Inventory,  An,  1079. 

See  also  Plate. 


Jeffreys,  Thomas. 

From  Duke  of  Suffolk,  997. 

Jenney,  John. 

To  John  Paston,  294,  295. 

Jenney,  William. 

To  J.  Paston,  384,  443. 
From  Sir  J.  Fastolf  (to  Jenney  and  others), 
158. 

Jermyn,  John. 

From  Earl  of  Oxford,  167. 

Jernyngham,  John. 

To  Margaret  Paston,  369. 

Jersey,  Bailiff  and  Jurats  of. 
To  Viscount  Beaumont,  68. 

Joye,     William,     and     William 
Paston,  49. 

Jullye. 

To  his  Father,  959. 


Kela,  Thomas. 

To  John  Paston,  899. 

Kemp,  Cardinal,  Lord  Chancellor. 
Petition  to,  218. 

Kendal,  Sir  John. 
To  Sir  John  Paston,  1069. 

Kendal,  John. 

To  William  Paston,  1076. 

King,  John. 

From  Paston,  William,  970. 
From  George,  servant  to  William  Paston, 
971. 


Knivet,  Sir  William,  and  others. 
From  Elizabeth,  Duchess  of  Norfolk,  1061. 

Kyllygrewe,  Robert. 
To  Ric.  Wasse,  1083. 


Lampet,  Ralph. 

To  Daubeney,  his  cousin,  542. 
Testimony  of,  541. 

Langley,  Abbot  of. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  549. 
To  Stokes,  John,  407. 

Ledham,  Robert. 

Information  against,  241. 

L'Estrange,  Roger. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  1054. 

Lkthum,  Robert. 

To  John  Paston,  459. 

Lightfoote,  Richard,  and  Wil- 
liam Paston. 
From  Sir  John  Paston,  1071. 

Lincoln,      John       Chedworth, 
Bishop  of. 

To  John  Paston,  302. 

Littleton,    Thomas,    and    John 
Nedham. 

From  Henry  VI.,  411. 

Lomner,  William. 

7<7  John  Paston,  120,  190,  402,  465,  963. 

LovEL,  John,  Lord. 

To  Viscount  Beaumont,  381. 

Lyng,  Sir  T. 

To  Sir  J.  Paston,  1058. 


Lynsted,  Thomas. 

From  William  Paston,  948. 


243 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  i  to  259.— Vol.  III. 

Makefyrr,  William. 

To  Roger  Darcy  and  Giles  Alyngton,  1078. 

Malden,  Bailiff  of. 
From  James  Arblaster,  808. 

Margaret  of  Anjou. 

From  Lord  Hungerford  and  Robert  Whit- 
yngham,  480, 

Marham,  Peter. 
To  William  Paston,  957. 

Marlingford. 

Manor  of,  953. 
Errands  to,  940. 

Maryot,  John. 
To  William  Paston,  54. 

Mautby,  Bailiff  of. 

From  William  Paston,  1 033. 

Mautby,  Edward. 
To  Margaret  Paston,  653. 

Memoranda,  954,  1084. 

Memoranda    for    Prosecutions, 
175. 

Middleton,  Sir  John  of,  and  Sir  J. 
Paston. 

From  Lord  Hastings,  839. 

Molynes,  Lord. 

To  the  Gresham  Tenants  of,  86. 
To  Winchester,  Bishop  of,  79. 

Molyneux,  Nich. 

From  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  304,  319. 

MowTH,  Friar  John. 
To  John  Paston,  628. 

Mundeford,  Elizabeth. 

7(?  John  Paston,  502. 

Mundford,  Osbert. 

To  J.  Paston,  208,  378. 
244 


260  to  487.— Vol.  IV.,  488  to  694.— 

Naunton,  William. 
To  John  Paston,  Senior,  486. 

Nedham,     John,     and     Thomas 

Littleton. 
From  Henry  vi.,  411. 

Nevill,  Lord. 

From  Richard,  Duke  of  Gloucester,  992. 

Nevill,  G.,  Archbishop  of  York. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  709. 
From  Edward  iv.,  719. 

Norfolk,  Authorities  in. 
From  Yorkist  Lords,  410. 

Norfolk,  Gentlemen  of. 

7b  the  Sheriff,  211. 

Norfolk,  Parties  in,  219. 
Norfolk,  Sheriff  of. 

To  King  and  Council,  214. 
From  Gentlemen  of  Norfolk,  21 1. 
From  Paston,  J.,  212. 

Norfolk,  John  Mowbray,  Third 
Duke  of. 

Proclamation  by,  210. 

To].  Paston,  58,  148,  150. 

From  Fastolf,  Sir  J.,  277,  278. 

From  Oxford,  Earl  of,  134. 

Petition  against  the  Duke  of  Somerset,  230. 

Norfolk,  Catherine,  Duchess  of. 
To  J.  Paston,  60. 

Norfolk,  Eleanor,  Duchess  of. 

To  Beaumont,  Viscount,  382.' 
7b  Paston,  J.,  288. 

Norfolk,  John  Mowbray,  Fourth 
Duke  of. 

To  Besieged  at  Caister  (passports),  730, 

731- 
To  Howard,  Sir  John,  668. 
To  Paston,  John,  Senior,  548. 
To  Paston,  John,  the  youngest,  614. 
From  Paston,  John,  824. 

Norfolk,  Duke  of,  his  Council. 

From  Lord  Scales,  706. 


INDEX  OF  LETTERS  AND  TITLES 


Vol.  v.,  69510935.- 

NoRFOLK,  John  Howard,  Duke  of. 
To  John  Paston,  994,  1002. 

Norfolk,  Elizabeth,  Duchess  of. 

To  Knivet,  Sir  William,  and  others,  1061. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  1064. 

Norman,  Edmund. 
Will  of,  57. 

NORTHWOOD  or  NORWODE,  JOHN. 

To  Viscount  Beaumont,  78. 
From  J.  Paston,  225. 

Norwich,  W.,  Bishop  of. 
To  W.  Yelverton,  441. 

Norwich,  John,  Prior  of. 

To ,  1013. 

From  Sir  Walter  Blount,  573. 


OcLEY,  William. 

To  William  Paston,  1088. 

Ogard,  Dame  Alice. 
To  John  Paston,  327. 

Osbern,  John. 

7b  John  Paston,  193,  215. 
Outrages,  Information  of,  217. 
Oxford,  John,  Twelfth  Earl  of. 

TbFastolf,  Sir  J.,  168. 

71?  Jermyn,  J.,  167. 

To  Norfolk,  Duke  of,  134. 

To  Paston,  J.,   118,  124,  132,   149,  163, 

437,  438,  456. 
To  Stapleton,  Sir  M.,  and  Th.  Brews,  133. 
From  Paston,  J.,  240. 

Oxford,  Elizabeth,  Countess  of. 
To  J.  Paston,  232,  233,  234. 

Oxford,  John,  Thirteenth  Earl  of. 

To  Bedinfield,  Sir  Edmund,  1015. 

To  a  Lady,  775. 

To  Paston,  Edmund,  1034. 

To  Paston,  Sir  John  (the  elder),  686,  696. 

To  Paston,  John,  or  Sir  John  (the  younger), 
1012,  1021,  1032,  1037,  1038,  1045, 
1047,  1049,  1050,  105 1,  1052,  1072. 


Vol.  VI,,  936  to  1088. 

Oxford,  John,  Thirteenth  Earl  of 

— continued. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  and  another,  1065, 
To  Spilman,  Henry,  and  others,  770. 
To  Vere,  Thomas,  769. 
From   Elizabeth,   Queen  of  Henry  vii., 

1020. 
From  Henry  Vll.,  1036,  1046. 

Oxford,  Steward  of  Earl  of. 
To  *  Black  Knight,'  1073. 

Oxford,  Margaret,  Countess  of. 
To  John  or  Sir  John  Paston,  1009,  1070. 

Oxnead  Parsonage,  934,  943. 
Oxnead  and  Friar  Hawteyn,  50. 


Painter's  Work,  756. 
Pampyng,  John. 

To  Paston,  John,  Senior,  481,  559. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  751. 
From  John  Paston  to  Pampyng  and  others, 
540. 

Passport. 

To  Besieged  on  surrender  of  Caister,  730. 
Paston,  Land  in,  48. 

Paston,  Vicar  of. 

To  Margaret  Paston,  852,  853. 

Paston,  Agnes. 

To  Paston,  Edmund,  62. 

To  Paston,  John,  93,  105,  194,  195,   196, 

207,  222,  227,  237,  363,  493. 
To  Paston,  William,  34. 
From  Chamberlain,  Sir  Roger,  64. 
From  Poynings,  Elizabeth,  374. 
From   Reynolds,    William,   of   Crowmer, 

231. 
From  Williamson,  Sir  Robert,  503. 
*  Errands  to  London  of  A.  P.,'  362. 
Will  of.  644,  645. 

Paston,  Dame  Agnes,  Widow  of 

the  Second  Sir  John. 
Will  of,  App.  9. 

245 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  i  to  259.— Vol.  III., 

Paston,  Agnes  and  William. 
Manors  of,  919. 

Paston,  Clement,  Father  of  the 

Judge. 
Will  of,  App.  I. 

Paston,    Clement,    Son    of    the 

Judge. 
To  J.  Paston,  430,  461, 478,  484,  557,  564, 
627. 

Paston,     Edmund,    Son    of    the 
Judge. 

To  John  Paston,  69,  789,  870. 
FroT^  Agnes  Paston,  62. 
Will  of,  85. 

Paston,  Edmund,  Son  of  John. 

To  Paston,  John,  or  Sir  John,  the  younger, 

his  brother,  789,  952,  1056. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  975. 
To  Paston,  William,  his  brother,  974. 
From  Downyng,  John,  991. 
From  Oxford,  Earl  of,  1034. 
From  Paston,  Sir  John,  836. 
From  Paston,  Sir  John  (to  him  and  John 

Paston),  873. 
From  Paston,  William,  his  brother,  969. 

Paston,  John,  Son  of  the  Judge. 
To ,  213,  508. 

To  Chancellor,  the  Lord,  530. 

To  Edward  iv.,  569. 

To  Fastolf,  Sir  John  (from  him  and  Howes), 

368. 
To  Gloys,  Jas.,  301. 
To  Gresham,  Jas.,  136. 
To  Grey,  Edmund,  Lord  of  Hastings,  252. 
To  Norfolk,  SheriflFof,  212. 
To  Norwode,  John,  225. 
To  Oxford,  Earl  of,  240. 
To  Panpyng,  Calle,  and  Wykes,  540. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  659,  700,  741. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  408,  412,  468,  475, 

535.  595.  600,  609. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  and  others,  575,  591, 

601. 
To  Radclyff,  John,  of  Attylburgh,  624. 
To  Southwell,  Richard,  440. 
To  Suffolk,  Duke  of,  534. 
From  Anonymous,  56,  80,  145,  495,  574, 

1082. 
From  Anonymous  (to  Paston  and  Yelver- 

ton),  414. 

246 


260  to  487.— Vol.  IV.,  488  to  694.— 

Paston,  John,  Son  of  the  Judge — 

continued. 
From  Arblaster,  Jas. ,  636. 
FromB.  D.  M.  S.,  631. 
From  Balkey,  T.,  1081. 
From  Barker,  Will.,  379. 
From  Berney,  John,  199,  470,  471. 
From  Berney,  John  (to  Paston  and  Roke- 

wode),  467. 
From  Berry,  Henry,  556. 
From  Bocking,  John,  330,  331,  334,  345, 

354. 
From  Bocking,  John  (to  Paston  and  others), 

396. 
From  Boleyn,  Sir  Geoffrey,  428. 
From  Botoner,  W.     See  Worcester. 
From  Bourchier,  Archbishop,  344. 
From  Brackley,  Friar,    See  that  title. 
From  Bromholm,  John,  Prior  of,  431. 
From  Bromholme,  Robert,  Prior  of,  84. 
From  Calle,  Richard.     See  that  title. 
From  Call,  Robert,  420. 
From  Calthorpe,  W.,  367. 
From  Canon,  Thos.,  the  Elder,  of  Mekyll 

Pagrave,  281. 
From  Clere,  Edmund,  270. 
From  Clere,  Elizabeth,  94,  114,  447. 
From  Clopton,  John,  209,  242,  243. 
From  Cotyng,  W.,  89. 
From  Crane,  John,  121. 
From  Cromwell,  Lord,  313. 
From  Damme,  John,  95. 
From  Damme,  John,  and  J.  Gresham,  151. 
From  Daubeney,  J.,  521. 
From  Davy,  John,  433. 
From  Debenham,  Tymperley,  and  White, 

189. 
From  Denyes,   Thomas,   123,    141,    181, 

239,  244,  245,  454,  455- 
From  Dollay,  R.,  248. 
From  Dory,  John,  353. 
From  Dowbigging,  John,  506. 
From  Fastolf,  Sir  John.     See  that  title. 
From  Fastolf,   Sir  John   (to  Paston  and 

others),  204,  271,  275,  319,  376. 
From  Felbrigge,  Sir  John,  625. 
From  Fenn,  Hugh,  324,  328. 
From  Gloys,  Jas.,  81,  178,  179,  300,  482. 
From  Gresham,  Jas.     See  that  title. 
From  Grey  (of  Hastings),  Edmund,  Lord, 

250. 
From  Gyne,  John,  29. 
From  Hansson,  Christopher,  419. 
From  Henry  VL,  139. 
From  Heveningham,  Sir  John,  494. 
From   Howes,   Thomas,    259,   263,   267, 

268,  273,  347,  509. 


INDEX  OF  LETTERS  AND  TITLES 


Vol.  v.,  695  to  935.— Vol.  VI.,  936  to  1088. 


Paston,  John,  Son  of  the  Judge — 

continued, 
/^rom  Jenney,  John,  294,  295. 
From  Jenney,  William,  384,  443. 
From  Lethum,  Robert,  459. 
From  Lincoln,  John  Chedworth,  Bishop 

of,  302. 
From  Lomner,  William,   120,    190,  402, 

465. 
From  Mowth,  Friar  John,  628. 
From  Muudeford,  Elizabeth,  502. 
From  Mundeford,  Robert,  208,  378. 
From  Naunton,  William,  486. 
From  Norfolk,    third  Duke  of,  58,  148, 

ISO. 
From  Norfolk,  fourth  Duke  of,  548. 
From   Norfolk,    Catherine,    Duchess  of, 

60,  288. 
From  Ogard,  Dame  Alice,  327. 
From  Osbern,  John,  193,  215. 
From  Oxford,  Earl  of,  118,  124,  132,  149, 

163,  437,  438,  456. 
From    Oxford,   Elizabeth,     Countess    of, 

232,  233,  234. 
From  Pampyng,  John,  481,  559. 
From  Paston,  Agnes.     See  that  title. 
From   Paston,   Clement,   430,   461,   478, 

484,  557,  564,  627. 
From  Paston,  Edmund,  69,  870. 
From  Paston,   Sir  John,  375,   477,   511, 

518,  612,  613. 
From  Paston,  John,  his  second  son,  532, 

533,  552,  586,  633. 
From  Paston,  Margaret.     See  that  title. 
From  Paston,  William,   his  brother,  91, 

254,  260,  391,  400,  406,  526. 
From  Paston,  William,  and  Th.  Playter, 

448. 
From  Payn,  John,  126. 
From  Playter,  Thomas.     See  that  title. 
From  Playter,  Thomas,  and  W.  Paston, 

450. 
From  Price,  William,  291. 
From  R.  C.  V.  C,  550. 
From  Reppes,  Robert,  36. 
From  Russe,  John,  333,  476,  51$,  525, 

529,  531,  580. 
From  Rysing,  John,  588. 
From  St.  Benet's,  Abbot  of,  274. 
From  Scales,  Thos. ,  Lord.    See  that  title. 
From  Shotbolt,  John,  434. 
From  Smythe,  John,  453. 
From  Southwell,  Ric,  206,  262,  632. 
From  Sperlyng,  G.,  398. 
From  Sporle,  Vicar  of,  140. 
From  Taverham,  Roger,  490,  491. 
FromW.  C,  516. 


Paston,  John,  Son  of  the  Judge — 

continued. 
From  Warwick,  Ric,  Earl  of,  257. 
From  Wayte,  William,  142,  170,  172. 
From   Willoughby  (of   Eresby),    Robert, 

Lord,  61. 
From  Windsor,  Henry,  332,  370,  483. 
From  Wingfield,  Sir  John,  439. 
From  Worcester  (or  Botoner),  W.    See  that 

title. 
From  Wychyngham,  Edmund,  220. 
From  Wykes,  John,  514. 
From  Wymondham,  John,  619. 
From  Yelverton,  William,  66. 
From  York,  Richard,  Duke  of,  256. 
Petitions  of,  59,  102,  135,  524,  575,  590. 
Expenses  of,  373. 
Outlawry  of,  572. 
F'uneral  of,  637. 

J.  P.,  and  Margaret  Paston,  43. 
Fastolf,  Sir  J.,  and  J.  F.,  392. 

Paston,  or  Wortes,  John,  n,  14. 

Paston,  John,  eldest  son  of  John 
Paston,    Senior  (Sir  John  in 

1463). 

To  Anne,  Mistress,  687. 

To  Beauchamp,  Lord,  674. 

To  Edward  iv.,  879. 

To  Paston,  Edmund,  his  brother,  836. 

To  Paston,  John,  his  father,  375, 477,  511, 
518,  612,  613. 

To  Paston,  John,  his  brother,  655,  662, 
665,  691,  703,  715,  729,  742,  753,  762, 
781,  782,  798,  800,  812,  813,  826,  830, 
831,  832,  833,  834,  841,  842,  843,  858, 
860,  861,  864,  881,  883,  884,  888,  892, 
900,  903,  909,  912,  914,  929,  936. 

To  Paston,  John,  and  Edmund,  873. 

To  Paston,  Margaret,  his  mother,  652, 
725,  736,  774,  795,  837,  846,  856,  857. 
865,  875,  889,  891,  893,  911,  916,  930, 
956. 

To  Townsend,  Roger,  699. 

To  Writtill,  Master,  722,  723. 

From  Anonymous,  690. 

From  Bedingfield,  Edmund,  918. 

From  Brews,  Sir  Thomas,  902. 

From  Browne,  Robert,  429,  711. 

From  Calle,  Richard,  487,  587,  663,  712, 

717. 
From  Daubeney,  John,  1022. 
From  Daune,  Cecily,  679. 
From  Daverse,  T.,  660. 
From  Ebesham,  William,  695. 

247 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  I  to  259.— Vol.  III., 

Paston,  John,  eldest  son  of  John 
Paston,  Senior  (Sir  John  in 
1 463) — continued. 

From  Edward  iv.,  683,  698. 

From  Fenn,  Hugh,  682. 

From  Gloys,  Sir  James,  650. 

From  Gresham,  James,  771. 

From   Hastings,    Lord  (to    Sir    John    of 

Middleton  and  Sir  John  Paston),  839. 
From  Hawte,  James,  714. 
From  Langley,  Abbot  of,  549. 
From  Nevill,  G. ,  Archbishop  of  York,  709. 
From  Osbern,  John,  819. 
From  Oxford,  Earl  of,  686,  696. 
From  Pampyng,  John,  751. 
From  Paston,  John  (his  father),  659,  700, 

741. 
From  Paston,  John,   the   youngest.     See 

that  title. 
From  Paston,  Margaret.     See  that  title. 
From  Paston,  Walter,  945. 
From  Paston,  William,  664,  854. 
From  Pecock,  William,  786,  921,  922. 
From  Poynings,  Elizabeth,  692. 
From  Pympe,  John,  906,  907,  908. 
From  Reynforth,  Constance,  928. 
From  Sporle,  Tenants  of,  844. 
From  Strange,  J.,  657. 
From  Whetley,  J. ,  932. 
From  Whynbergh,  Robert,  880. 
From  Worcester,  W.,  (Botoner),  927. 
From  Wykes,  John,  598,  626. 
Deeds  of,  785. 
Will  of,  920. 

Paston,  John,  the  youngest  (Sir 
John  in  1487). 

To ,  449,  967. 

To  Brews,  Margery,  887. 

To  Croft,  Richard,  989. 

To  Fitz waiter,  Lord,  1042. 

To  Hastings,  Lord,  886. 

To  Norfolk,  Duke  of,  824. 

To  Paston,  John,  his  father,  532,  533,  552, 
586,  633. 

To  Paston,  Sir  John,  his  brother,  659,  661, 
666,  700,  705,  710,  716,  732,  735.  737, 
740,  741,  746,  747,  793,  796,  801,  802, 
804,  805,  809,  810,  817,  821,  823,  828, 
829,  850,  876,  877,  883,  885,  890,  904, 

925,  957. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  607,  C>Tl,  684,  759, 

766,  776,  778.  780,  784,  868,  878,  882, 

901,  915,  926,  962,  965,  979. 
To  Paston,  Dame  Margery,  his  wife,  1019. 

248 


260  to  487.— Vol.  IV.,  488  to  694.— 

Paston,   John,   the  youngest  (Sir 

John  in  1487) — continued. 
To  Paston,  Will.,  his  brother,  and  R.  Light- 
foot,  1 07 1. 
From  Anonymous,  789. 
From  Brews,  Dame  Elizabeth,  894,  895, 

896,  1017,  1018. 
From  Brews,  Margery,  897,  898. 
From  Bromholm,  John,  Prior  of,  972. 
From  Browne,  Dame  Elizabeth,  1003. 
From  Browne,  Sir  George,  694. 
From  Calle,  Richard,  1067,  1068. 
From  Clere,  Robert,  1023. 
From  Crowmer,  Robert,  1060. 
From  Cryne,  T.,  980. 
From  Durham,  Bishop  of,  1040. 
From  Fitzhugh,  Alice,  Lady,  1008. 
From  Fitzwalter,  John,  Lord,  loii,  1024, 

1025. 
From  Griggs,  T.,  1029. 
From  Haryson,  Lumen,  1041. 
From  Hastings,  Lord,  847,  848. 
From  Henry  VII.,  loio,  1066. 
From  Heydon,  Sir  Henry,  1056. 
From  Kela,  Thomas,  899. 
From  Kendal,  Sir  John,  1069. 
From  L'Estrange,  Roger,  1054. 
From  Lomnor,  William,  963. 
From  Lyng,  Sir  T.,  1058. 
From   Norfolk,    Elizabeth,    Duchess    of, 

1064. 
From  Norfolk,  John  Howard,  Duke  of, 

994,  1002. 
From   Norfolk,  John    Mowbray,   Fourth 

Duke  of,  614. 
From  Oxford,  Earl  of.     See  that  title. 
From  Oxford,  Margaret,  Countess  of,  1009, 

1070. 
From  Paston,  Edmund,  789,  952,  1056. 
From  Paston,  Sir  John.     See  that  title. 
From    Paston,    Sir    John    (to    him    and 

Edmund  Paston),  873. 
From  Paston,  Margaret.     See  that  title. 
From  Paston,  Margery,  his  wife,  923,  982, 

983,  999,  1007,  1030. 
From  Paston,  Walter,  his  brother,  946. 
From  Paston,  William,  his  brother,  939, 

942,  1026,  103 1,  1039,  1053. 
From  Paston,  William,  his  son,  1062. 
From  R.  B.,  984. 
From  R.  L.,  783. 
From  Southwell,  Richard,  867. 
From  Suffolk,  Duke  of,  1006. 
From  Suffolk,  Elizabeth,  Duchess  of,  993. 
From  Surrey  Earl  of,  1043,  1044. 
From  Surrey,  Elizabeth,  Countess  of,  1004. 
From  Writtill,  728. 


INDEX  OF  LETTERS  AND  TITLES 


Vol.  v.,  695  to  935.- 

Paston,  John,  the  youngest  (Sir 

John  in  1487) — continued. 
From  Yarmouth,  Bailiffs  of,  1048,  1059. 
J.  P.  and  the  surrender  of  Caistcr,  731. 
J.  P.  and  Margery  Brews,  910. 
J.  P.  and  his  uncle  William,  966,  998. 
Books  of,  987. 


Paston,  Margaret,  Wife  of  John. 

To ,  597. 

To  Brews,  Dame  Elizabeth,  913. 

To  Gloys,  Sir  James,  825. 

To  Paston,  John,  her  husband,  38,  47,  75, 
77,  82,  83,  87,  88,  103,  106,  180,  182, 
183,  184,  187,  197,  201,  216,  221,  224, 
226,  228,  229,  236,  306,  377,  423,  427, 
432,  43S»  462,  466,  469,  472,  488,  489, 
496,  497,  504,  505.  510*  517,  536,  539. 
544,  551,  553,  567,  578,  579,  581,  582, 
583,  584,  585,  590,  594,  596,  599,  604, 
610,  611,  616,  617,  620,  630,  761,  792, 
811. 

To  Paston,  Sir  John,  her  eldest  son,  552, 
592,  629,  649,  671,  701,  704,  720,  721, 
724,  733,  752,  761,  790,  794,  803,  863, 
871,  874,  917. 

To  Paston,  John,  her  second  son,  623, 
7^7y  791,  792,  797,  811,  814,  816,  862, 
866. 

From  Alyard,  Edmund,  944. 

From  Anonymous,  501,  608,  977. 

From  Barker,  W.,  986. 

From  Burton,  J.,  444. 

From  Calle,  Richard,  464,  820,  955. 

From  Clere,  Elizabeth,  654. 

From  Cotyng,  W.,  445. 

From  Crane,  Alice,  296. 

From  Denyes,  Thomas,  463. 

From  Gnatyshale,  Thomas,  634,  635. 

From  Gresham,  James,  546. 

From  Herlyng,  John,  of  Basyngham,  678. 

From  Hert,  Sir  Thomas,  990. 

From  Jernyngan,  John,  369. 

From  Mautby,  Edward,  653. 

From  Paston,  Vicar  of,  852,  853. 

From  Paston,  Edmund,  975. 

From  Paston,  John,  her  husband,  408,  412, 
468,  475,  535,  595,  600,  609. 

From  Paston,  John  (to  her  and  others), 
591,  601. 

From  Paston,  John,  the  eldest  son.  See 
that  title. 

From  Paston,  John,  the  youngest  son.  See 
that  title. 


Vol.  VI.,  93610  1088. 

Paston,  Margaret,  wife  of  John 

— continued. 
From  Paston,  Walter,  her  son,  931. 
From  Paston,  William,  255,  869. 
From  Piers,  424,  474. 
From  Pykenham,  William,  941. 
From  Russe,  John,  656. 
From  Spany,  Robert,  of  Posscwykc,  394. 
From  Worcester,  William,  681. 
From  Wykes,  John,  576. 
Will  of,  978. 
John  Paston  and  M.  P.,  43. 

Paston,   Margaret,  Wife  of  Ed- 
mund. 

Will  of,  App.  8. 


Paston,     Margaret, 

Robert. 
Will  of,  App.  5. 


Wife     of 


Paston,    Margery,   Daughter  of, 
John. 

From  Richard  Calle,  713. 

Paston,  Margery,  Wife  of  John 

Paston  the  youngest. 
To  Paston,  John,  or  Sir  John,  her  husband, 

923,  982,  983,  999,  1007,  1030. 
From  Paston,  Sir  John,  1019. 

Paston,  Robert,  of  Wiveton. 

Will  of,  App.  4. 

Paston,  Walter,  Son  of  John. 

To  Paston,  Sir  John,  his  brother,  945. 
To  Paston,  John,  his  brother,  946. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  his  mother,  931, 
Will  of,  950. 

Paston,  William,  the  Judge. 
To ,  10. 

To  the  Vicar  of  the  Abbot  of  Clugny,  20. 

To  Worsted,  William,  and  others,  12. 

From  Anonymous,  I5' 

From  Bromholme,  Nich.,  Prior  of,  8. 

From  Chambre,  Eleanor,  45. 

From  Cressingham,  Ralph,  Parson  of,  17. 

From  Gresham,  Jas.,  51. 

From  Gyney,  John,  52. 

From  Maryot,  John,  54. 

From  Paston,  Agnes,  34. 

From  Willoughby,  Robert,  Lord,  22. 

249 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  i  to  259.— Vol.  III., 

Paston,    William,   the  Judge — 

continued. 

From  Wotton,  William,  55. 
Will  of,  App.  2. 
W.  P.,  and  William  Joye,  49. 
Instructions  to  John  Staynford,  7. 

Paston,    William,     Son    of    the 
Judge. 

To ,  Lord,  30. 

To  Goldewell,  Nicholas,  937. 

To  King,  John,  970. 

To  Lynsted,  Thomas,  948. 

To  Paston,  John,  91,  254,  260,  391,  400, 

406,  526. 
To  Paston,  John  (from  him  and  Playters), 

450- 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  664,  854. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  255,  869. 
To  Pope,  William,  of  Bacton,  938. 
To  Staynford,  John,  7. 
To  Walsh,  Robert,  958,  964. 
To  Waryns,  Henry,  949. 
From  Brackley,  Friar,  403. 
Will  of,  App.  7. 
Plate  of,  951. 

W.  P,  and  Sir  John  Fastolf,  985. 
George,  Servant  of,  to  John  King,  971. 

See  also  Paston,  Agnes,  and  William  ; 
and  Paston,  John,  the  youngest. 

Paston,  William,  Son  of  John. 

To  Mautby,  Bailiff  of,  1033. 
To  Paston,  Edmund,  his  brother,  969. 
To  Paston,  John,  or  Sir  John,  the  youngest, 
his  brother,  939,  942,  1026,  103 1,  1039, 

1053. 
From  Andrew,  Thomas,  1027,  1028. 
From  Barnard,  William,  1055. 
From  Breton,  John,  of  Hadley,  1086. 
From  Paston,  Edmund,  974. 
From  Paston,  Sir  John  (to  him  and   R. 

Lightfoot),  1071. 
From  Wryght,  John,  1085. 

Paston,  William,  Son  of  Sir  John 

the  younger. 
To  Sir  John  Paston,  his  father,  1062. 
From  Kendal,  John,  1076. 
From  Warham,  Archbishop,  1075. 

Paston,  William  (uncertain.) 

From  Marham,  Peter,  957. 
From  Ocley,  William,  1 088. 

250 


260  to  487.— Vol.  IV.,  488  to  694.— 

Payn,  J. 

7<?  John  Paston,  126. 

Pecock,  William. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  786,  921,  922. 

Pickering,  Nicholas. 

Will  of,  603. 

Piers. 

To  Paston,  Margaret,  424,  474. 

To  Rokesby,  Robert,  425. 

Plate,  Inventory  of,  968. 
Playter,  Thomas. 

To  Paston,  John,  253,  421,  422,  45l,'452, 

457,  474,  500,  527,  528,  537. 
To  Paston,  John  (from  William   Paston 
andT.  P.),  450. 

Pleadings  in  23  Henry  VI.,  253. 
Pope,  William,  of  Bacton. 

From  William  Paston,  938. 

PoYNiNGS,  Elizabeth. 

To  Paston,  Agnes,  374. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  692. 

Prick,  William. 

71?  John  Paston,  291. 

Proclamation  against  Henry  Tudor, 

lOOI. 

Prosecutions,     Memoranda     for, 
176. 

Pykenham,  William. 

To  Margaret  Paston,  941. 

Pympe,  John. 

To  Paston,  Sir  John,  906,  907,  908. 

Pyrke,  John. 

Will  of,  App,  3. 


R.  B. 

To  John  Paston,  984. 


INDEX  OF  LETTERS  AND  TITLES 


Vol.  v.,  69510935.- 

R.  C.  V.  C. 

To  John  Paston,  the  eldest,  550. 

R.  L. 

To  John  Paston,  783. 

Radclyff,  John,  of  Attylborough. 

To  John  Paston,  624. 

Reppes,  Robert. 
To  John  Paston,  60. 

Reynforth,  Constance. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  928. 

Reynolds,  William,  of  Crowmer. 

To  Agnes  Paston,  231. 

Richmond,      Margaret,      Coun- 
tess of. 
To ,  1063. 

RoKESBY,  Robert. 

From  Piers,  425. 

RoKEWODE,  William. 
From  Berney  (to  Rokewode  and  J.  Paston), 
467. 

Rondelle,  Martin. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  838. 

RoTHWELL,  Master. 
From  Anonymous,  570. 

RussE,  John. 

To  Paston,  John,  333,  476,  5 IS.  525f  $29, 

531,  580. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  656. 

Rysyng,  John. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  588. 


Sacred  Vessels,  562. 

St.  Albans,  Battle  of,  283,  284. 

St.  Benet's,  John  Martin,  Abbot 

of. 
7b  John  Paston,  274. 


Vol.  VI.,  936  to  1088. 
St.  Faith,  Monastery  of,  976. 

Salisbury,  Richard,  Earl  of. 

To  Viscount  Beaumont,  361. 

Scales  Lands,  The,  1035. 

Scales,  Anthony,  Lord. 

To ,  707. 

To  Norfolk,  Council  of  the  Duke  of,  706. 

Scales,  Thomas,  Lord. 

To  Gnateshale,  Thos.,  76. 
To  Paston,  John,  108,  109,  no,  in,  112, 
n3,  ns,  n6,  246,  342,  343. 

Scrope,  Stephen. 

From  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  360. 

Sewarby,  William. 

From  Anonymous,  3. 

From  Edingthorpe,  Parson  of,  3. 

Shipdam,  Walter  or  Watkin. 

Fro7n  Sir  J.    Fastolf   (to    Shipdam    and 
others),  104,  107,  137,  156,  203. 

Shotbolt,  Thomas. 

To  John  Paston,  434. 

Smyth,  John. 

To  John  Paston,  Senior,  453. 

Southwell,  Richard. 

To  John  Paston,  206,  262,  632,  867. 
From  John  Paston,  440. 

Spany,  Robert,  of  Possewyke. 

To  Margaret  Paston,  394. 

Sperlyng,  G. 

To  John  Paston,  398. 

Spelman,  Sir  Henry. 
From  John  Aubry,  718. 

Spilman,  Henry,  and  others. 
From  Earl  of  Oxford,  770. 


Sporle,  Vicar  of. 
To  John  Paston,  140. 


251 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  i  to  259.— Vol.  III., 

Stafford,    John,   Archbishop    of 
Canterbury. 

From  John  Hauteyn,  63. 

Stansted  and  Harwellbury,  iooo. 

Stapleton,  Sir  Miles,  and  Thomas 
Brews. 

From  Earl  of  Oxford,  133. 

Staynford,  John. 

From  William  Paston,  7. 

Stodeley,  John. 
News  Letter  of,  235. 

Stoke,  Battle  of,  1016. 

Stokesley,  John. 

From  Abbot  of  Langley,  407. 

Strange,  J. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  657. 

Suffolk,  Alice,  Duchess  of,  702. 

Suffolk,  Elizabeth,  Duchess  of. 
To  John  Paston,  993. 

Suffolk,  William,  Duke  of. 

Impeachment  of,  loi. 
To  his  son,  117. 

Suffolk,  John,  Duke  of. 

To  Eye,  Bailiffs,  etc.,  of,  760. 
To  Jeffreys,  Thomas,  997. 
To  Paston,  John,  1006. 
From  Paston,  John,  534. 
Attack  on  Hellesdon,  615. 

Surrey,  Elizabeth,  Countess  of. 

To  Harward,  William,  1005. 
To  Paston,  John,  1004. 

Surrey,  Earl  of. 

To ,  1005. 

To  Paston,  Sir  John,  1043,  1044. 

SWAFFHAM,  Town  Of. 
Petition  from,  185. 

Swan,  William. 

From  Edward  iv„  758. 
252 


260  to  487.— Vol.  IV.,  488  to  694. — 

Tailboys,  William. 
To  Viscount  Beaumont,  100. 

Taverham,  Roger. 

To  John  Paston,  400,  401. 
Tewkesbury,  Battle  of,  777. 
Townsend,  Roger. 

From  Sir  John  Paston,  699. 

TuDDENHAM,  Sir  Thomas. 

From  Richard,  Earl  of  Warwick,  98. 

TuDDENHAM  and  Heydon. 
Oppressions  of,  176. 

Tudor,  Henry. 

Proclamation  against,  looi. 

Tymperley,       Debenham,       and 

White. 
To  John  Paston,  189. 


Vaux,  John,    Parson    of   Eding- 
thorpe. 

To ,  18. 

To  William  Sewarby,  3. 

Vere,  Thomas. 

From  Earl  of  Oxford,  769. 

Verses  by  a  Lady,  988. 


W.  C. 

71?  John  Paston,  516. 

Waller,  Richard. 

From  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  264. 

Walsh,  Robert. 

From  William  Paston,  958,  964. 

Warham,  Archbishop. 

To  William  Paston,  1075. 


INDEX  OF  LETTERS  AND  TITLES 


Vol.  v.,  69s  to  935.- 

Waryns,  Henry. 
From  William  Paston,  949. 

Warwick,  Richard,  Earl  of. 

To  Paston,  John,  257. 

To  Tuddenham,  Sir  Thos.,  98. 

From  Edward  iv.,  719. 

Wass,  Richard. 

From  Robert  Kyllygrewe,  1083. 

Waynflete,  William,   Bishop  of 
Winchester. 

From  Lord  Molynes,  79. 

Advice  touching  Will  of  Fastolf,  393. 

Wayte,  William. 

7<»  John  Paston,  142,  170,  172. 
/y^w  John  Booking,  169. 

Wentworth,  Sir  Philip. 
Petition  of,  397. 

Wenyngton,  Robert. 

To  Thomas  Daniel,  90. 

West,  Thomas. 
From  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  319. 

White,  Debenham  and  Tymper- 

ley. 
To  John  Paston,  189. 

White,  Master. 

From  James  Gresham,  128. 

Whetley,  J. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  932. 

Whityngham,  Robert.     See  Hun- 

GERFORD. 

Whynbergh,  Robert. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  880. 

Williamson,  Sir  Robert. 

To  Agnes  Paston,  503, 

WiLLOUGHBY,  JOHN. 
To  Lord  Beaumont,  33. 


Vol.  VI, ,  936  to  1088. 
WiLLOUGHBY  (OF  ErESBY),  RoBERT, 

Lord. 
7b  John  Paston,  61. 

Windsor,  Henry. 

7!?  Bocking,  J.,  and  Worcester,  299. 
To  Paston,  J.,  332,  370,  483. 

Wingfield,  Sir  John. 
To  John  Paston,  439. 

Wingfield,  Thomas. 

From  Writtill,  727. 

Worcester   (or   Botoner),   Wil- 
liam. 


To 


'.  401.  577,  744- 


To  Berney,  John,  399. 

To  Fastolf,  Sir  John,  364,  365. 

To  Paston,  John,  247,  249,  258,  297,  314, 

31S,  316,  320,  346,  355,  356,  372. 
To  Paston,  John,  and  J.  Bocking,  1077. 
To  Paston,  Sir  John,  927. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  681. 

Worsted,  William,  and  others. 

From  William  Paston,  12. 

Wortes,  or  Paston,  John,  n,  14. 

Wotton,  William,  of  Pagrave. 
To  William  Paston,  55. 

Wright,  John. 

To  William  Paston,  1085. 

Writtill,  Master. 

To  Caister,  Besiegers  of,  726. 
To  Paston,  John,  728. 
To  Wingfield,  Thomas,  727. 
From  Paston,  Sir  John,  722,  723. 

Wychyngham,  Edmund. 

To  John  Paston,  220. 

Wyke,  John. 

To  Paston,  Sir  John,  598,  626. 
To  Paston,  Margaret,  576. 
From  Paston,  John,  514. 
From  Paston,  John  (to  him  and  others), 
540. 

Wykes . 

Bill  for  travelling  expenses,  loSo. 

253 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


Vol.  II.,  Nos.  I  to  259.— Vol.  III., 
Vol.  v.,  69510935.- 


Wymondham,  John. 

To  John  Paston,  619. 


Yarmouth,  Bailiflfs  of. 

To  Sir  John  Paston,  1048,  1059. 

Yelverton,  William,  Justice  (»S/> 

William  in  146 1). 
To  Bocking,  John,  155. 
To  Fastolf,  Sir  John,  154. 
To  Paston,  John,  66. 
From     Anonymous     (to    Yelverton    and 

Paston),  414. 
From    Bocking,    J.    (to    Yelverton    and 

others),  396. 


260  to  487.— Vol.  IV.,  488  to  694. — 
Vol.  VI.,  93610  1088. 

From  Fastolf,  Sir  John,  359. 

From  Fastolf,  Sir  John  (to  him  and  Paston), 

275- 
From  Norwich,  W.,  Bishop  of,  441. 
Message  of,  618. 

Yelverton,  William,  Grandson  of 

the  Judge. 
From  Thomas  Grene,  651. 

York,  Richard,  Duke  of. 

To  Henry  vl,  143. 
To  Paston,  J.,  256. 
Indenture  with  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  223. 

Yorkist  Lords. 

To  Norfolk  Authorities,  410. 


254 


GENERAL    INDEX 


OF 


NAMES,  PLACES,  SUBJECTS,  AND 
OBSOLETE  WORDS 


[Entries  are  ordinarily  made  under  the  form  of  spelling  most  in  conformity  with  modern 
usage,  but  in  the  case  of  puzzling  variants  cross  references  are  given.] 


Abbevile,  v.  287. 

*  Abbey  of  the  Holy  Ghost'  (Alcock's), 

i.  323  ;  vi.  66. 
Abbot,  John,  ii.  120. 
Abbys,  Will.,  v.  305. 
Abergavenny  (Bargevenny),  Lady,  iii.  98. 
Acle  (Okill),  Norfolk,  i.  200;  ii.  313  ;  iii. 

236  (/5w),  238;  V.  136. 
Acle  (Ocle),  Magna  et  Parva,  v.  202. 
Acton,  Hugh,  ii.  212. 

Adam, ,  ii.  257. 

Adam,  John,  iv.  66. 

Adam,  Little,  iii.  231. 

Adam,  Master,  ii.  299. 

^neas  Sylvius,  afterwards  Pope  Pius  IL, 

i.  58. 

Agas, ,  tenant  at  Cotton,  iii.  315. 

Akethorpe,   Lowestoft,    Suffolk,   iv.   102, 

109,  173,  174,  175,  241,  243,  244,  289, 

292  ;  V.  98,  148,  189. 
Albert  the  Prodigal,  Duke  of  Austria,  i. 

89 ;  ii.  205. 
Alblastre.     See  Arblaster. 
Albon,  John,  i.  29. 
Albon,  Rob.,  vi.  153. 
Alborow,  Margaret,  i.  306-307,  319;  vi.  8. 
Alburugh.     See  Hawteyn,  Friar  John. 
Alcock,  John,  Master  of  the  Rolls  ( 147 1  -2) ; 

Bishop  of  Rochester  (1468-76);  Bishop 

of  Worcester  ( 1476-86) ;   Bishop  of  Ely 

(i486- 1 500);    Lord   Chancellor    (1485- 

86),  i.  323  ;  vi.  98. 
Alderford,  Edmund,  ii.  29. 
Alderiche,  Friar  John,  vi.  179. 
Alderton  More,  Yorkshire,  vi.  131. 
Alen5on,  ii.  5  ;  iii.  63. 
Alen9on,  John,  Duke  of,  taken  prisoner  at 

battle  of  Verneuil  ( 1424)1  "i«  5o,  59>  64>  73- 


Alexander,  iii.  135. 

Aleyn,  Dr.,  iii.  226,  242;  iv.  10,  142,  205; 

V.  no,  150,  169. 

,  Wife  of,  v.  159,  164. 

Aleyn,  John,  ii.  172,  232,  233. 

Aleynes, ,  Farmer  of  Fresham,  iv.  9, 

123. 
Alfonso  v..  King  of  Arragon,  i.  54,  89; 

ii.  126,  205. 
Alford,  John,  iv.  307. 
Alington,  Giles,  vi.  172. 
Alington,  John,  ii.  307  ;  iv.  150-152. 
Alington,  Master,  iii.  45,  46-47. 
Alington,  Will.,  ii.  307  ;  v.  270. 

Alisander, ,  iii.  226. 

Allen,  Thos. ,  clerk  of  Peter  Le  Neve,  i.  330. 
Alman,  Rob.,  ii.  299. 
Almayne  (German)  harness,  vi.  173. 
Alnwick    (Annew^yke),    Northumberland, 

i.  215;  iv.  59,  60,  71. 
Alnwick,  Will. ,  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  vi.  76, 

190. 
Aloyned.     Esloigned,  iv.  114. 
Alpherde,  John,  iv.  279. 
'  Alredis  sone,'  ii.  269. 
Alunday,  Richer,  ii.  2. 

Alwedyr, ,  vi.  4,  7. 

Alyard,  Mr.  Edmund,  i.  306;  v.  320;  vi. 

11-12,  13,  16,  17. 
Alyevy  green,  a  kind  of  cloth,  v.  307. 
Alygh,  Ralph,  iii.  142. 
Alys.     See  Hales. 
Amasia,  iii.  97. 
Amewse,  iii.  214. 
Amiens,  v.  203. 

Amiens  (Amyas),  Sr.  John  of,  vi.  154. 
Ampthill,  ii.  325. 
Ancell,  John,  vi.  16. 

255 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Andrew,  Thos.,  vi.  206,  207. 

Andrew  or  Andrews,  John,  ii.  145,  193, 
194,  252,  326;  iii.  18,  34,  85,  91,  95, 
105,  112,  120,  121,  133,  222,  227,  228, 
24s,  248,  309 ;  iv.  145,  205  ;  vi.  200. 

Andrewe,  vi.  113-114,  114-115. 

Andrews,  Jas.,  v.  25. 

Anemps.     Anent;  towards  or  before,  v.  15. 

Angerville,  Normandy  (Ankyrvile),  ii.  8. 

Anjou,  France,  i.  46,  47,  48,  57,  60,  62, 
103,  107  ;  ii.  121  ;  iii.  155  ;  vi.  83. 

Anjou,  Charles  of.  Count  of  Maine,  brother 
of  King  Rene,  i.  46,  50;  ii.  123. 

Anjou,  Margaret  of.     See  Margaret. 

Anjou,  Rene,  Duke  of,  ii.  123. 

Anne,  Duchess  of  Brittany,  afterwards 
Queen  of  France,  vi.  125-127. 

Anne,  Lady,  v.  67. 

Anond,  John,  vi.  152. 

Annewyke.     See  Alnwick. 

Anselm,  Abbot.     See  Hulme. 

Ante-dated  Letters  Patent,  iii.  88. 

Antony,  Castle  of  {qu,  the  Bastile  of  St. 
Anthony  in  Paris?),  ii.  7. 

Apawys,  Norfolk,  v.  299. 

Apeyr.     Impair,  iv.  124,  125. 

Appeal  of  Murder,  v.  65,  73. 

Appleby  (Appylby),  John,  iv.  269. 

Appleyard  family,  i.  30. 

Appleyard,  John,  iv.  105. 

Appleyard  (Appulzerd),  Nich.,  of  Nor- 
wich, ii.  191,  193,  212,  213,  252,  253, 
261,  266. 

Appointment.  A  treaty ;  terms  or  condi- 
tions laid  down,  v.  42,  46,  57,  58. 

Ap  Rice  (Aprys),  David,  ii.  27. 

Aprys.     See  Ap.  Rice. 

Arblaster,  Agnes,  ii.  295. 

Arblaster  (Alblastre),  Jas.,  i.  190,  276;  ii. 
150,  294  bis,  295,  323;  iii.  86,  135,  139, 
218,  226,  227,  237;  iv.  18,  46,  105,  166, 
172,  193,  207,  221,  226,  259,  273,  274, 
275  ;  V.  41,  88,  148-149.  150,  199,  201, 
202,  230,  239,  289. 

,  Wife  of,  iii.  130. 

Ardern,  Sir  Peter,  iii.  268 ;  iv.  94. 

Arfleet.     See  Harfleur. 

Argenten,  Sir  William,  ii.  46. 

Argenton,  Normandy,  ii.  5. 

Arkesay,  Parson  of,  ii.  113;  iii.  157. 

Arleham,  iv.  225. 

Armagnac,  John,  Count  of,  i.  61  ;  v.  180. 

Arnald,  Davy,  iv.  204. 

Aronde.     Errand,  iv.  16 T. 

Arques  (Arkes),  Normandy,  i.  56,  106 ; 
iii.  306. 

Arragon,  King  of.     See  Alfonso  v. 

Arran,  Thomas  Boyd,  Earl  of,  v.  144,  147. 

Arthern,  i.  336. 

256 


Arthur,  King,  iv.  298  ;   vi.  6$  ;   Death  of, 

i-  323. 
Arthur,  Prince  of  Wales,  son  of  Henry  vii., 

i.  317;  vi.  161. 
Arundel,  Sir  John,  vi.  118. 
Arundel,  Sir  John,  of  the  West,  vi.  151, 

187. 
Arundel,  William  Fitzalan,  Earl  of,  i.  176; 

iv.  217  ;  V.  62. 

Ascani,  ,  ii.  20. 

Ashfield  (Aschefylde)   ,  iv.    194 ;    v. 

38. 
Ashton  (Ascheton),  Ralph,  i.  297;  iv.  60; 

V.  243. 
Aske,  Jane,  vi.  37. 
Aslak,  Walter,  i.  32-33;  ii.  12-18,  28. 

Aslake, ,  v.  201. 

Aspall,  Sir  Robert,  i.  193. 
Asse  la  Rebole,  ii.  7. 

Asshcote, ,  ii.  317. 

Assize,  Writ  of,  iv.  22. 
Asslie,  Kent,  iv.  310. 

Astley  (Astele), ,  iv.  209, 

Attaint,  iii.  10,  18,  32,  76,  84,  129. 

AttclifF, ,  i.  269. 

Attcliff,  or  HatteclifF,  Will.,  v.  85,  181, 

184. 
Atte  Hill,  Roger,  ii.  42. 
Alte  More.     See  More. 
Attleborough,  Norfolk,  i,  202;  iii.  80,  153, 

155,  162  ;  iv.  214 ;  V.  256,  262  ;  vi.  94, 

100,  109. 
Attlebridge  (Attylbrigge),  Norfolk,  iv.  8. 
'Attrochid,'  ii.  123.      So  Fenn  reads  the 

word,  which  he  interprets  as  attracted. 

The  reading  in  the  Rolls  of  Parliament 

is,  however,  accroched. 
Atwell,  Thom.,  vi.  56. 
At  Wessyll.     See  Entwistle. 
Aubre,  Adam,  ii.  17,  18. 
Aubry  (Awbry),  iii.  286 ;  iv.  231. 
Aubry,  John,  v.  34. 
Audeley,  Sir  James,  vi.  102. 
Audeley,  John,  iii.  307. 
Audeley,  Sir  Humphrey,  v.  104,  105. 
Audeley,  Lord,  i.  179,  180,  182. 

Audeley  (Awdley), ,  vi.  118,  187. 

Austin  (Awstyn),  Hugh,  iv.  265. 

Austria,  Duke  of.     See  Albert. 

Avranches  (Averense),  ii.  5. 

Awdley.     See  Audeley. 

Awge  (?),  in  France,  ii.  6. 

Axes,  Anne,  iii.  146. 

'  Ayeseldys  wife,'  vi.  43. 

Aylesham,  Norfolk,  i.  90;  ii.  54,  55,  224, 

311 ;  iii.  298  ;  iv.  242. 
Aylinton  (?  Aylmerton),  Norfolk,  iv.  215. 
Aylmerton,  Norfolk,  i.  254 ;  v.  64.      See 

Aylinton. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Ayscough,  Wm.,  Bishop  of  Salisbury,  i. 
76. 

B.  D.  M.  S.,  iv.  244. 

Baberham  (Baburgham),  Cambridge,  ii. 
162. 

Babington,  Thos.,  iv.  118  note,  119. 

Babthorpe,  Ralph  of,  iii.  28,  30. 

Bacon,  or  Bakon, ,  iv.  40. 

Bacon,  Edmund,  i.  41  ;  ii.  30. 

Bacon,  Francis,  Lord,  i.  314. 

Bacon,  John,  senior,  ii.  261. 

Bacon,  John,  junior,  ii.  261. 

Bacon,  Margery,  i.  41 ;  ii.  30. 

Bacon,  Maud,  i.  41. 

Baconthorpe,  Norfolk,  iv.  67. 

Bacton  (Baketun,  etc.),  Norfolk,  ii.  10,  33, 
34.  63,  70,  263;  iv.  80,  230;  V.  117  bis, 
323;  vi.  3,  20,  162-163,  190. 

Bacton,  Vicar  of,  vi.  188. 

Bacton,  Adam,  Vicar  of,  vi.  189. 

Bacton  (Baketon),  Edmund,  Elizabeth, 
Margaret,  Robert,  ii.  67. 

Bacton, ,  land  of,  vi.  20. 

Bacton  (Bakton),  John,  ii.  80,  87,  98 ;  iv. 
250,  251,  252 ;  V.  209,  221 ;  vi.  162-163, 
188. 

Bacton,  Martha,  vi.  188. 

Bacton,  William,  ii.  278;  v.  63;  vi.  189, 

192,  193,  198,  199. 
Bacton's  Place,  vi.  162. 
Baggeworth,  iii.  143. 
Bagham,  Thos.,  iii.  4. 

Bailey, ,  i.  72. 

Bailey,  Wm.,  vi.  167. 

Bain, ,  iii.  136. 

Bakeney,  Joan,  iv.  70. 
Baker,  John,  vi.  167. 
Baketun.     See  Bacton. 
Bakon.     See  Bacon. 
Bakton.     See  Bacton. 
Bakuile,  France,  ii.  7. 
Bald  baits,  iv.  67. 
Balden,  Reginald,  ii.  72. 
Baldeswell,  ii.  265. 

Baldware,  Laurence,  Rector  of  Stockton, 
ii.  45 ;  Parson  of  Oxnead,  ii.  234.     See 
also  Oxnead. 
Baley,  Mr.  vi.  44. 
Balkey,  T.,  vi.  183. 

Ball, ,  ii.  13s,  244. 

Ball,  Agnes,  ii.  246. 

Ball,  John,  ii.  246  ;  iv.  243. 

Ballon  (Balon),  France,  ii.  7. 

Baly,  Roger,  ii.  271. 

Bamborough,  Northumberland,  i.  215;  iv. 

59  bis,  60. 
Bampton,  Thos.,  ii.  131. 
Banbury,  i.  249. 

VOL.  VI. R 


Bang,  Henry,  ii.  267,  271,  308,  311. 
Bange,  Austin,  i.  331. 
Bange,  Thos.,  vi.  166,  167. 
Baningham,  Rob.,  iv.  178. 
Baningham,  Norfolk,  iv.  215. 
Baningham,  Little,  vi.  208. 

Banyard, ,  iv.  151. 

Bapthorp.     See  Babthorpe. 

Barantyn,  Drewe,  ii.  159. 

Barber,  Sir  William,  iv.  308. 

Barbour,  Henry,  iii.  239,  245  ;   iv.   104, 

237- 
Barbour,  John  and  Cassandra,  iii.  3. 
Barbour,  Philip,  vi.  146-147. 
Barbour,  William,  ii.  55. 
Bardeslie,  Nic,  v.  189. 
Bardolph,  Lady,  ii.    134,  191,  192  {bis), 

213,  216,  252. 
Bardolph,  Sir  Will.  Philip,  Lord,  ii.  19, 

57,  145,  2ot).     See  also  Phihp. 
Barel,  John,  vi.  80. 
Baret.     See  Barret. 
'Barge  of  Yarmouth,  The,'  i.  214;  iv,  43, 

45.  46. 

Barkeley,  Ric,  vi.  140,  141,  142. 

Barker, ,  of  Blickling,  ii.  245. 

Barker,  Chas.,  iii.  237. 

Barker,  Christopher,  iii.  125. 

Barker,  Harry,  243  ;  v.  250. 

Barker,  John,  v.  S6. 

Barker,  Ric,  vi.  57. 

Barker,  Will.,  ii.  178,  192,  238,  252  ;  iii. 
6  {bis),  7,  9,  10,  32  {bis),  33,  41,  66,  69, 
72,  IZy  76,  93.  104,  105,  109,  no.  III, 
113,  114,  129,  132,  141-142,  167,  200, 
219,  220,  246  ;  iv.  130,  257,  293,  294  ; 

V.  145,  153,  177,  187,  198,  323;  vi.  61, 

62,  64,  65. 
Barkerz  Yard,  iii.  208. 
Barkway  (Berkewey),  Herts,  ii.  162;  iii. 

135  ;  vi.  100. 
Barlee,  Nic,  vi.  25. 
Barly,  Mrs.,  i.  302;  v.  274. 
Barlyscose,  Ralph,  iv.  279. 
Barnard.     See  also  Bernard. 
Barnard, ,  Warden  of  the  Grey  Friars, 

Norwich,  iii.  209. 

Barnard, ,  v.  32. 

Barnard, ,  Under-SherifF  of  Norfolk, 

iv.  87. 
Barnard,  Will.,  vi.  146-147. 
Bamarde,  Benet,  vi.  185. 
Barnet,  Battle  of,  i.  260,  261,  266,  271, 

274;  V.  99-100. 
Barney.     See  Berney. 
Barnham  (Bernham)  Broom,  Norfolk,  vi. 

57. 
Barow, ,  ii.  96,  131,  132,  133. 

Barow,  Sir  Maurice,  vi.  187. 

257 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


Barret,  or  Barette, ,  Treasurer  to  the 

Duke  of  Norfolk,  iii.  7. 
Barret,  or  Baret,  Catherine,  ii.  39  note  2. 
Barret,  Thos.,  ii.  269,  271,  310,  311. 
Barret,  Will.,  ii.  2. 
Barronners  (Berners?), ,  iii.  301,  302, 

303- 
Barrow,  Walter,  v.  104. 

Barry,  Sir  Edmund,  ii.  II  ;  vi.  192.     See 

also  Berry. 
Barry  or  Paston,  Agnes.     See  Paston. 
Barry,  Arms  of,  ii.  91. 

Barsam, ,  iv.  27. 

Bartholomew  Fair,  v.  109. 

Barton,  Sir  Hen. ,  Alderman  of  London, 

ii.  81. 
Basingham.     See  Bessingham. 
Bastard,  Alice,  vi.  200,  201. 
Bastard  of  Burgundy.     See  Burgundy. 
Bastard,  Will.,  vi.  19. 
Bastram,  Kent,  iv.  309. 
Bastwick,  Norfolk,  iv.  79,  109  ;  v.  76,  92, 

233>  283. 
Bataly,  Edmund,  ii.  68. 
Bataly,  Will.,  vi.  17. 
Bath  Cathedral,  i.  27. 
Bath,  John  Stafford,  Bishop  of  (1425-43), 

ii.  38. 
Bath,  Knights  of  the,  vi.  151. 
Batham  Wyly,  iii.  72. 
Bathe  Row,  London,  iv.  264. 
Batilmewe,  Ric,  iv.  286. 
Batryaux,  John,  iii.  28. 
Bawd,  Sir  Thos.,  vi.  152. 
Bawryte,  Sir  John,  ii.  276. 
Baxter,  James,  ii.  265. 
Baxter,  John,  ii.  41-43. 
Baxter,  Waryn,  ii.  82. 
Baxter,  Will.,  iii.  252,  253. 
Baxter's  Place,  ii.  62. 
Bayard,  a  horse,  i.  315  ;  vi.  123. 
Bayeux,  i.  57,  67,  68 ;  ii.  5. 
Bayfield,  Norfolk,  ii.  77. 
Bayfield,  Allen,  iv.  10. 
Bayleham  (Beylom,  Boylom),  Suffolk,  iii. 

133. 
Bayonne,  i.  95,  120. 
Bayton.     See  Beighton. 
Beamond,  Hugh,  v.  235. 
Bear  on  hand,  to,  ii.  no  note. 
Beauchamp,  Manor  of,  vi.  192,  195. 
Beau  champ,  Ann,  ii.  78  note  i. 
Beauchamp,  John,  Lord,  Lord  Treasurer 

(1450-2),   ii.    200,    328;  iii.   165,   166, 

192,  215,   305-306,   iv.   Ill,  288,  289, 

292 ;  V.  20,  94;  vi.  118. 
Beauchamp,  Sir  Roger,  Arms  of,  vi.  47. 
Beaufort,   Lady  Anne,  i.   291  ;    vi,    115 

note  2. 

258 


Beaufort,  Henry,  Bishop  of  Winchester 
(1405-47);  Lord  Chancellor  (1413-17 
and  1424-6) ;  Cardinal  (1427),  i.  33,  47, 
51,  142;  ii.  27,  115. 

Beaufort,  Lord  John,  i.  99,  108,  241,  336. 

Beaufort,  Margaret,  i.  61,  62  ;  vi.  207. 

Beaufort.  See  also  Somerset  and  Exeter, 
Dukes  of. 

Beaulieu  (Bewelay)  Sanctuary,  i.  271,  272  ; 

V.  189.  [This  is  Beverley  in  Fenn's 
modern  version]. 

Beaumarais,  i.  79,  81. 

Beaumesnil,  France,  ii.  7. 

Beaumesnil,  Robert,  Lord  of  Willoughby 

and.     See  Willoughby. 
Beaumont,  Anne,  Countess  of,  i.  292. 
Beaumont  (Bemonde),  Sir  Harry. 
Beaumont  (Bewmound),  France,  ii.  7. 
Beaumont,  John,  Viscount  (1440-60),  i.  63, 

68,  134,  171,  189,  201  ;  ii.  44,  75-76, 
78,  88,  118,  150,  296;  iii.  50,  %Tj  121, 
143  (bis),  189. 

Beaumont,  Wm.,  iii.  268. 

Beccles,  Suffolk,  ii.  56,  194 ;  iv.  192,  238. 

Becham,  Henry,  iv.  178. 

Becham,  Sir  John,  vi.  118. 

Becher,  John,  v.  229. 

Beckham,  Norfolk,  iv.  250,  252,  253  ;  v. 

25.  33,  59»  61,  63. 
Beckham,  East,  i.   254 ;  iii.  133 ;  v.  49, 

64,  116 ;  vi.  96,  169. 
Beckham,  West,  i.  254 ;  ii.  5 1 ;  v.  64. 
Beckham  (Bekkham),  ,  iv.  287  ;   v. 

213. 
Beckingham,  Sir  Harry,  iii.  268. 
Bedford,  John, -Duke  of,  Uncle  of  Henry 

VI.  and  Regent  of  France,  i.  119,  333  ; 
ii.  35,  36,  40;  iii.  9,  5°,  51,  58,  59,  67, 

69,  70-71,  72,  73.  74,  76,  79,  93,  148, 
149;  iv.  2,  188,  189. 

Bedford,  Jaquetta,  Duchess  of,  i.  257,  324  ; 

iv.  188,  305  ;  V.  16,  64,  85. 
Bedford,  John,  ii.  160. 
Bedford,  Matt.,  v.  60. 
Bedford,  Will,  iv.  203  ;  v.  98,  143. 
Bedingfield,  Family  of,  i.  284. 
Bedingfield,  Edmond  (knighted  1483),  i. 

312  ;  V.  143,  181,  262,  296-298,  vi.  99- 

100  \bis),  loi,  130,  136,  143,  149. 

Bedston, ,  iv.  261. 

Beeston  near  the  Sea,  i.  354. 

Beeston,  Henrietta,  i.  331. 

Beetley,  ii.  305. 

Begviles  Pasture,  Somerton,  vi.  55. 

Begviles,   Winterton,    Norfolk,   iv.     109, 

292  ;  V.  94  ;  vi.  55. 
Behelwyn.     See  Belesme. 
Beighton  (Beyton  or   Boyton),    Norfolk, 

i.  196;  ii.  192, 193, 199, 234,  240;  iii.  65, 


GENERAL  INDEX 


72,  220;  iv.  18,  {dis),  70,  109,  244,  292  ; 
V.  25,  92,  136,  234. 
Bekarton  (Bykerton),  John,  v.  268,  273, 
274  {dis),  275. 

Bekk, ,  ii.  84,  131,  133. 

Bekkes,  John  a,  ii.  51. 

Bele,  John,  ii.  199. 

Bele,  Master,  vi.  20. 

Belesme  (Behelwyn),  Normandy,  ii.  7. 

Bellacombyr,  France,  ii.  7. 

*  Belle  Dame  sans  Mercy,'  i.  323  ;  vi.  6S» 

66. 
Bellingham,  Sir  Roger,  vi.  102,  187. 

Belt, ,  i.  316  ;  vi.  152. 

Belton,  Suffolk,  iv.  238,  244. 
Belton,  Jane,  vi.  179. 

Belys, ,  iv.  9. 

Bemond,  Sir  Harry,  v.  105. 
Bemond,  Will.,  vi.  180. 
Benchard,  Geoffrey,  ii.  244. 
Bendyssh,  John,  ii.  173. 
Bennes,  John,  iii.  119. 
Bentley,  or  Bentley  Houses,  Suffolk,  iii. 
20,  90,  91,  93,  112,  129,  167  ;  iv.  249. 
Bentley,  Yorkshire,  iii.  72. 
Benyngfeld,  Sir  Edmond,  vi.  187. 
Berdewell,  Will.,  ii.  52. 
Berkeley  (Barkley),  Maurice,  i.  249 ;   v. 

35,  105  ;  vi.  187. 
Berkeley,  William,  v.  219. 
Berker.     See  Barker. 
Berkhamstead,  i.  177 ;  iii.  126. 
Berkshire,  i.  189 ;  iii.  226. 
Berkyng,  John,  ii.  65  ;  iii.  237. 
Bermondsey,  iii.  I73>  191- 
Bermondsey  Abbey,  i.   198,  228  ;  ii.  25 ; 

iv.  186. 
Bermondsey,  Abbot  of,  iii.  53. 
Bermoth,  Sir  Wm.,  v.  104. 
Bernard  (Barnard),  v.  32,  161,  238. 
Bernard,  Long,  ii.  323  ;  iii.  5,  85,  93. 
Bernard,  John,  iii.  223,  237  ;  v.  84. 
Bernard,  Friar  John,  iv.  237,  271. 
Bernard,  Sir  John,  ii.  78. 
Bernard,  Rob.,  v.  254. 
Berners.     See  Burneys,  Barronners. 
Berners,   Lord  (Sir  John   Bourchier),   i. 
336,  iii.  267. 

Berney, ,  i.  164  ;  ii.  66  ;  iv.  67,  303  ; 

V.  32,  163,  198,  199,  215. 
Berney,  Elizabeth,  v.  203. 
Berney,  John,  of  Reedham,  {oi>.  1440),  ii. 

14,  30,  46. 
Berney,  John,  (o5.  1460),  iii.  222,  223-224, 

251,  283. 
Berney,  John,  of  Reedham,  {06.  1473),  i. 
287;   iii.    222,   238,   244;   iv.   71,  73, 
172;    v.    174.   175.    179;    Wife  of,  V. 
174. 


Berney,  John,  of  Witchingham  {ob.  1471), 
i.  204,  206,  212,  267 ;  iii.  140,  284,  288 
(dts),  289,  290  (<5/j),  291-292,  292-293, 
298;  iv.  17,  20,  24,  92,  94,  226;  V. 
119. 

Berney,  John  (uncertain),  i.  31,  184;  ii. 
5o>  93-94>  171.  189,  200,  201,  209,  212, 
215,  217,  219,  249,  252,  253,  257,  308, 
322;  ui.  36,  203,  208,  217,  237,  241, 
242,  248,  263;  iv.  79,  93,  122,  126, 
129,  192,  193  ;  V.  143,  153. 

Berney,  Osbert,  i.  252,  253,  254 ;  v.  45, 
57,  60. 

Berney,  Osborn,  v.  147,  316;  vi.  53. 

Berney,  Philip,  i.  113;  ii.  230,  239,  251, 
268,  269,  277,  282,  286,  287,  309,  311. 

Berneys  of  Reedham,  Arms  of,  vi.  47. 

Bernysdale,  v.  185. 

Berry  and  Guienne,  Charles,  Duke  of,  v. 
216. 

Berry, ,  ii.  243. 

Berry  (Berre),  Agnes,  i.  30  ;  ii.  11. 

Berry,  Sir  Edmund,  i.  30 ;  iv.  253 ;  vi. 
19.     See  also  Barry. 

Berry,  Henry,  iv.  89-91. 

Berton,  John,  ii.  312. 

Bert  on,  Rob.,  ii.  308. 

Berton,  Wm.,  iii.  309. 

Berwick-on-Tweed,  i.  169,  194;  iii.  271. 

Bery,  Rob.,  v.  78. 

Bery,  Thos.,  ii.  312. 

Bery.     See  Bury  St.  Edmunds. 

Bessingham  (Basingham,  or  Besigham), 
Norfolk,  ii.  51, 187,  287,290, 294;  vi.  48. 

Best,  Roger,  v.  39. 

Beston,  John,  ii.  221,  308,  310. 

Betchworth  Castle,  i.  258. 

Betele.     See  Beetley. 

Betes,  John,  ii.  224. 

Bethune  (Betoyn),  v.  287. 

Betts, ,  ii.  155,  220-222, 

Beueron,  S.  Jaques  de,  ii.  5. 

Bever,  drinkables,  ii.  229. 

Beverley,  v.  113.     See  also  Beaulieu. 

Beylom.     See  Bayleham. 

Bewmalyn,  Castle  of,  France,  ii.  7. 

Bewmanill.     See  Beaumesnil. 

Bewmound.     See  Beaumont. 

Beyton.     See  Beighton. 

Bible,  The,  iv.  307. 

Bickwod,  iii.  17. 

Bigg,  Thos.,  i.  126. 

Bigot,  Mrs.,  vi.  209. 

Billes  in  Stokesby,  iv.  292  ;  v.  yS,  94,  283. 

Billesdon,  Nichol,  Chancellor  of  Beaufort, 
Bishop  of  Winchester,  ii.  27. 

Billing,  Thos.,  Sergeant-at-law  (1453), 
Chief  Justice  of  the  King's  Bench  (circa 
1469),  ii.  329,  330;  iii.  1-2;  V.  195. 

259 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Billingford,  Norfolk,  vi.  133. 
Billingford,  John,  iii.  237  ;  iv.  60. 
Billingford    (Bylyngeford),    Margaret,    v. 

274,  292. 

Billingham, ,  iv,  51. 

Billys.     See  Billes. 

Bingham,   Rich.,  Justice    of   the    King's 

Bench,  i.   156;  ii.  321;  iii.  37,  54-55, 

109,  121,  142  ;  iv.  77. 
Bingham,  Sir  John,  v.  105. 

Bingham, ,  iv.  44. 

Binham,  Norfolk,  vi.  94. 

Bircham  (Brytcham),  Norfolk,  vi.  115. 

Birde,  Will.,  vi.  186. 

Birlingham,  v.  136. 

Birmingham  (Bermingham),  iv.  70. 

*  Bishop  of  Salisbury  Inn,'  i.  165. 

*  Bishop  of  the  other  side  of  the  sea,'ii.  96. 

Bishop  (Busshop),  ,  ii.  134;  vi.  69. 

Bishop  (Busshop),  Wife  of,  ii.  188,  216. 
Bishop  (Byshop),  the  Attorney,  v.  248. 
Bishop  (Byshop),  Nich.,  ii.  264-265. 
Bishop  (Byshoppe),  Mrs.,  vi.  59. 
Bishops    Waltham    (Bysshop    Waltham), 

Hants,  V.  314. 
Biskley,  v.  252. 

Blackbeard  or  Whitebeard,  ii.  152. 
Blackborough  Nunnery,  i.  256 ;  v.  6"^. 
Blackheath,  i.  70,  75,  76,  77,  99 ;   ii.  145, 

153' 
Black  Knight,  The  (Sir  J.  P.?),  vi.  168. 
Bladsmyth,  John,  ii.  233. 

Blake, ,  ii.  252  ;  iii.  146,  196. 

Blake, ,  of  the  King's  house,  ii.  212, 

248  ;  Secretary  to  the  King,  ii.  249. 
Blake, ,  Bailiff  of  Swaffham,  i.  89  ;  ii. 

206,  207,  208,  211,  214,  285.      See  also 

SwafiFham. 
Blake,  John,  ii.  276. 
Blake,  Ric,  iii.  263. 
Blake,  Simon,  ii.  217,  264. 
Blakeney,  Mrs.,  v.  123. 
Blakeney,  Norfolk,  i.  177;  iii.   126,  128; 

iv.  125. 
Blakeney,  Carmelite  Friars  of,  ii.  54j  188. 
Blakeney,  ,  Clerk  of  the  Signet,  iv. 

47. 
Blakette,  Walter,  iii.  4.' 

Blakke, ,  iii.  310. 

Blanket  Bendes,  ii.  128. 

Blaye,  i.  95,  122. 

Bleaunt,  John,  iv.  279. 

Blennerhasset,  Blaundrehasset,  or  Harsset, 

Jane,  v.  177,  i79- 
Blennerhasset,  John,  i.  278;  v.  178. 
Blennerhasset,  Ralph,  v.  179. 
Blickling,  Norfolk,  ii.  134,  145,  277,  282 ; 

iii.  246  ;  iv.  160  j  vi.  27. 
Blickling  (Blykling), ,  i.  240 ;  iv.  282. 

260 


Blodwell,  John,  ii.  27. 

Blofield,  Norfolk,  i.  113  ;  ii.  270,  308,  314  ; 

iv.  II,  18,  46,  240,  284;  vi.  61. 
Blofield,  Parson  of.     See  Howes,  Thos. 
Bloreheath  Battle,  i.  179,  180,  195. 
Bloumvyle,  Ric,  iii.  297  ;  v.  90. 
Blount,  Sir  James  and  Sir  Thomas,  vi.  loi, 

102,  187. 
Blount,  Sir  Walter,  Treasurer  of  Calais, 

iii.  267,  312;  iv.  1 17-118. 
Bloxham,  Master,  iv.  268. 
Blyant,  Simon,  vi.  105,  106,  107. 
Blythburgh,  Suffolk,  iv.  269. 
Blything  Hundred,  Suffolk,  iii.  85. 
Boar's  Head,  The,  Southwark,  iii.  132, 224. 

Bocher, ,  v.  182. 

Bocking    (Bokking),    John,    i.    89,    163, 

167,    338;     ii.     170,    171,     190,     191, 

192,    194,    195.    196,     198,    205-206, 

209,  210,  212,  233,  252,  253,  335  ;   iii. 

6,  7,  9  {^is),  10,  II,  22  {bis),  34,  36,  37, 

43,  50,  51,  ^^.  69,  73,  74-76  {bis),  79, 

84-86,  86-87,  91-92,  102-103,  104,  106, 

109,   114,   127-128,   132,   196,  197-198, 

217,  231,  246;    iv.   102,  103,  239;    V. 

322. 
Bocking,  Nicholas,  ii.  134,  149,  188,  200; 

iii.  3. 
Bocking,  Sir  Wm.,  v.  322. 
Bodham,  Norfolk,  i.  254 ;  v.  64. 
Bodrugan,  Sir  Henry,  i.  281. 
Bogey.     Budge  fur,  or  lambskin  with  the 

wool  dressed  outwards,  ii.  155. 
Bokenham  (Bukman,  etc.),  Wm.,  Prior  of 

Yarmouth,  iii.  162 ;   iv.  73,   102,   103, 

182,  237. 
Bokenham  Castle,  iii.  81 ;  vi.  190,  195. 
Bokenham  Ferry,  v.  271  ;  vi.  190,  195. 
Bokking.     See  Bocking. 

Bokynham, ,  ii.  288,  289. 

Bokynham,  Edmund,  iii.  227. 
Bokyngham.     See  Buckenham. 
Boleyn.     See  Boulogne. 

Boleyn, ,  i.  190. 

Boleyn,  Anne,  Lady,  i.  274 ;  iv.  270,  276- 

277  ;  V.  125,  144. 
Boleyn,  Sir  Geoffrey,  of  London,  ii.  277, 

279 ;  iii.  9,  226,  246-247. 
Boleyn,  Thos.,  v.  32. 
Boleyn,  Sir  Wm.,  i.  312;  vi.  99,  129. 
Boll,  Harry,  vi.  176. 
Bolore,  France,  ii.  7. 

Bolt, ,  vi.  43. 

Bolte,  Henry,  iii.  134 ;  vi.  187. 
Bolwer,  Roger,  iii.  286. 
Bomstapyll,  France,  ii.  J. 

Bomsted, ,  v.  133. 

Bon,  Bone,  or  Bonde,  Thos.,  i.  226-227; 

ii.  288;  iii.  239,  297;  iv.  128,  169-171. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Bona  of  Savoy,  i.  246. 

Bonaventure,  The,  ii.  51. 

Bonde,  Wareyn,  iii.  91. 

Bondes,  Wm.,  ii.  65,  67,  68;  iv,  105. 

"Bongay.     Sec  Bungay. 

Bonvile,  France,  ii.  7. 

Bonvile,  William,  Lord,  i.  134,  165  ;  ii. 
296,  299,  321 ;  iii.  48-50. 

Bonwell,  v.  299 ;  vi.  192,  195. 

Books,  vi.  65-67  ;  expense  of  transcribing, 
V.  2. 

Booth  (Bothe),  Laurence,  Lord  Privy 
Seal,  afterwards  Bishop  of  Durham  and 
Archbishop  of  York  (1451- 1464),  i.  172  ; 
ii.  329 ;  iii.  108,  198 ;  v.  lOO.  ' 

Boothe,  Rob.,  ii.  252. 

Booth,  Wm. ,  Bishop  of  Chester,  i.  94. 

Borceter,  Sir  John,  iii.  269. 

Borde  AlisaundrCy  vi.  51. 

Bordeaux  (Burdeux),  i.  55,  95,  120-125  ; 
iii.  61,  157  ;  iv.  35. 

Borges.     See  Burgess. 

Boring  (Bouryng), ,  vi.  185. 

Borow.     See  Burgh. 

Borret, ,  of  Sussex,  iii.  307. 

Borrow  (Borwe).     A  surety,  ii.  17." 

Bosartys.     A  kind  of  hawk,  vi.  133. 

Bosomes  or  Bosouns,  Caister,  Norfolk,  i. 
298  ;  ii.  21 ;  iv.  109,  289,  292  ;  v.  77, 
94 ;  vi.  74. 

Boson,  Ric,  ii.  21. 

Boston,  Lincolnshire,  ii.  72,  119. 

Bos  well, ,  iv.  61. 

Boswell,  Wm.,  iv.  236,  241-242,  284. 

Bosworth  Battle,  i.  311. 

Boteler.     See  Butler. 

Boter  town,  vi.  185. 

Botewright,  John,  ii.  192,  197,  217. 

Bothas  (?), ,  vi.  151. 

Bothe,  Laur.     See  Booth. 

Botill,  Rob.,  Prior  of  St.  John's,  i.  157, 
336;  iii.  13. 

Botiller.     See  Butler. 

Botoner.     See  Worcester,  W. 

Botraux,  Wm.,  Lord,  i.  42. 

Bottesford, ,  iv.  203, 204,205,  206, 207. 

Bottisforth, ,  Bailiff  of  Eye,  i.  231. 

Bould,  Bartholomew,  i.  81. 

Boules.     See  Bowles. 

Bourbon,  Duke  of,  i.  106. 

Boulogne  (Boleyn),  iv.  57  ;  v.  287. 

Bourchier  (Bourgchier),   Edw.,   iii.    199; 

Bourchier  (Bourgchier),  Henry,  iii.  132. 

Bourchier,  Henry,  Lord  (1435-46),  Viscount 
Bourchier  (1446-61),  Earlof  Essex  (1461- 
83),  Lord  Treasurer  (1455-6  and  1460), 
i.  162,  189,  259,  281,  298,  336;  ii.  206, 
325  ;  iii.  4,  31,  92,  108,  132,  299,  301, 
302,  303,  304;  iv.  50,  310;  V.  44,  62,  188. 


Bourchier,  Sir  Humph.,  v.  100. 

Bourchier,  John.     See  Fitzwarine,  Lord. 

Bourchier,  Lady,  i.  287 ;  v.  194,  198. 

Bourchier,  Lady  Eliz.,  i.  270  ;  v.  1 11,  137. 

Bourchier,  Thos.,  Bishop  of  Ely  (1443-54), , 
Archbishop  of  Canterbury  (1454-86), 
Lord  Chancellor  (1455-6,  1460),  Car- 
dinal (1467),  i.  99,  159,  160,  163,  172, 
187,  188,  196,  241,  243,  253,  270,  298, 
335>  336 ;  ii.  253 ;  iii.  2,  9,  14,  24,  37, 
49,  50,  52,  71,  72,  79-80,  82,  92,  93,  94, 
97,  loi,  108,  109  {Jbis)y  no,  III,  112, 
118,  127,  132,  166,  192,  206,  210,  249, 
291,292,294,316;  iv.  103,  115,  181, 
220,  286,  289,  290,  302,  305  ;  V.  II,  12- 
13,  20,  44,  55,  67,  76,  91,  92,  94,  117, 
123,  132,  140,  142,  183,  192,  227,  270; 
vi.  9,  20  (called  erroneously  George),  v. 
76.  Seealso  Buckingham,  Humph. ,  Duke 
of,  his  brethren. 

Bourchier,  Viscount,  i.  172. 

Bourg  on  the  Garonne,  i.  95,  122. 

Bourges,  i.  49,  54. 

Bowden,  Thos.,  iv.  279. 

Bowen,  Edmund,  of  the  Checker,  v.  229, 
248,  250,  252. 

Bowet,  Amye,  ii.  9. 

Bowet,  Henry,  Clk.,  iii.  lOl. 

Bowet,  Sir  Nichol,  iii.  loi. 

Bowie,  John,  vi.  152,  162. 

Bowles,  Manor  of,  ii.  332-333. 

Bowres  Place,  ii.  278. 

Bowser,  Master,  iii.  233. 

Boyle,  Lady  Charlotte,  i.  27. 

Boylom.     See  Bayleham. 

Boys,  Jane,  iii.  260-262. 

Boys,  John,  i.  149 ;  ii.  46  ;  iv.  282. 

Boys,  Sir  Roger,  ii.  198. 

Boys,  Sibilla,  Widow  of  Sir  Roger,  ii.  248, 

279.   ' 

Boys, ,  Daughter  of,  v.  236  note  i. 

Boyton.     See  Beighton. 

Bra...,  Wm.,  vi.  65. 

Brackley,  John,  D.D.,  Grey  Friar  of  Nor- 
wich, i.  190,  197,  235,  236  ;  ii.  48,  217- 
218,  300;  iii.  95-96,  97,  144-145,  165, 
166,  193,  195-197,  209-212,  213-214,  220 
{bis)y  221,  226-227  (bis)y  228,  229-230, 
231-232,  242-244,  247-248,  256-258  (bis)f 
259,280,298;  iv.  104,  123,  182,  183, 
184,  185,  210,  237,  241,  275-276,  293. 

Bradbury,  Thos.,  Alderman  of  London,  vi. 
172. 

Bradeleghe,  Will,  de,  ii.  4. 

Bradeston  (Breydeston  or  Brayston),  Nor- 
folk, i.  95,  114;  ii.  II,  137,  145- 

Bradfield,  Wm.  de,  ii.  2. 

Bradlee,  Christopher,  ii.  267,  308. 

Bradshaw, ,  ii.  89. 

261 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Brad  well,  Suffolk,  ii.  193,  194,  199,  234, 
235,  240;  iii.  20,  54,  65,  91,  102,  105, 
no,  154,  199;  iv.  244,  292. 

Braham,  John,  iv.  289. 

Braintree  (Brambtre),  Essex,  vi.  181. 

Brampston,  Parson  of,  iv.  256. 

Brampton, ,  ii.  157  ;  v.  32. 

Brampton,  John,  v.  123. 

Brampton,  John,  senior,  v.  95. 

Brampton,  Thos.,  iii.  307  ;  v.  252. 

Brancaccio,   Thos.,   Cardinal,    Bishop    of 
Tricarico,  ii.  22. 

Brancaster,  Norfolk,  iii.  263. 

Branch,  Henry,  iii.  155. 

Branch,  Margaret,  iii.  155,  157. 

Branch,  Sir  Philip,  ii.  30;  iii.  155,  157. 

Brandeston,  Norfolk,  iv.  292. 

Brandeston,  Parson  of,  iv.  167. 

Brandon,  juxta  Barnham  Broom,  Norfolk, 

vi.  57- 

Brandon, ,  v.  31,  108. 

Brandon,  Lady,  v.  131,  156,  157. 
Brandon,  Mrs.,  iv.  30. 
Brandon,  Rob.,  v.  241,  251,  252  ;  vi.  99. 
Brandon,  Sir  Rob.,  vi.  no,  187. 
Brandon,  Wm.,  iii.  77  ;  v.  108  ;  Sir  Wm., 

i.  276,  294,  297;  v.  50,  105,  151,  156, 

172,  240,  243,  260. 
Brandon,  Wm.,  junior,  v.  108  ;  vi.  2. 
Branton,  Rob.,  ii.  245. 

Brasiour, ,  vi.  57. 

Brasted,  Kent,  Parson  of,  vi.  209. 
Braunford,  iii.  90. 

Brawnton, ,  ii.  108. 

Bray,  John,  ii.  118. 

Bray,  Sir  Reginald,  vi.  98,  158. 

Braydeston,  or  Brayston,     See  Bradeston. 

Braye, ,  iv.  264. 

Brayles,  Sir  Simon,  iii.  94. 

Braylyes,  Sir  Jas.,  iii.  93.  , 

Brayn,  ii.  227. 

Brayn  (or  Broyn),  ii.  190,  191,  193,  206, 

240  ;  iii.  95. 
Brayn,  Matt.,  ii.  155. 
Brayston,  ii.  248,  255,  256  note  2,  257, 

265,  273-274,  312,  313;  iii.  53. 
Bregmiles  (?),  Winterton,  v.  76. 
Breknok,  Davy,  iii.  71. 

Brele  (Brackley?),  Friar,  ii.  48. 

Brenerig,  John,  iv.  37. 

Brentwood,  vi.  181,  182. 

Bressingham,  Robert,  i.  332. 

Brest,  Brittany,  ii.  104;  vi.  118,  126. 

Bretailles,  Louis  de,  v.  32. 

Breton,  John,  vi.  186. 

Breton,  Wm.,  ii.  312. 

Bretons,  The,  iv.  57. 

Brewes,  Dame  Eliz.,  i.  300;  v.  264,  265, 

266,  267,  268,  269,  271,  272,  285,  286, 

262 


287,  288,  290,  292,  307,  308,  310;  vi. 
59,  88,  102-103,  103-104. 

Brewes  (Brewys  or  Bruce),  Margery,  mar- 
ried in  1477  to  John  Paston,  the  young- 
est, i.  300-303,  306,  307,  310;  v.  25s, 
265,  266,  267,  268,  269,  272,  273  bis, 
274  bis,  284,  285,  288,  289,  291,  292. 
See  also  Paston,  Margery. 

Brewes,  Sir  Rob.,  ii.  11. 

Brewes,  Thos.,  ii.  163,  164,  275,  276. 

Brewes,  Sir  Thos.,  i.  300,  301,  302,  337; 
v.  265,  266,  267,  268,  269,  272-273,  274, 
275.  275-276,  284,  285,  286,  287,  288, 
289,  290,  291,  292,  307,  308,  310. 

Brewes,  Young,  iii.  6,  no. 

Brews, ,  iv.  151  ;  v.  102. 

Brews,  Wm.,  vi.  90,  103,  11 7- 118. 

Brez6,  Pierre  de,  French  general  (called 
Piers  Brusy  by  Lomner),  i.  49,  174;  ii. 
147. 

Brice, ,  vi.  11. 

Brigaunders  or  Brigandines.  A  kind  of 
coat  armour,  ii.  128,  155  ;  iv.  142. 

Brigg, ,  ii.  190,  211  ;  iv.  125,  130. 

Brigg,  John,  iii.  286 ;  iv.  105  ;  vi.  5,  19. 

Brigg,  Marg.,  ii.  193,  233;  iii.  105. 

Brigg,  Thos.,  iii.  227  ;  vi.  208. 

Brigge, ,  iv.  125. 

Briggeman, ,  ii.  102,  103. 

Brigham, ,  v.  198. 

Brightlede  (Bryghtylhed,  Brytyeff,  or  Bry- 
thyeve), ,i.  218;  iii.  237;  iv.  130, 140. 

Brightlede,  Rob.,  iii.  237. 

Brisley,  Norfolk,  iii.  273,  282. 

Bristol  (Bry stow),  i.  146,  152;  ii.  176,  l8l, 
324;  vi.  120. 

Bristol  Castle,  ii.  319. 

Bristol,  Mayor  of,  i.  146;  ii.  324. 

Briston  (Bryston),  Norfolk,  ii.  51;  iv.  225. 

Briston,  Master,  v.  72,  123. 

Brittany,  i.  314,  315 ;  iii.  60,  63  ;  v.  112; 
vi.  111-112,  118,  125-127;  Ambassadors 
of,  V.  157;  vi.  III. 

Brittany,  Anne,  Duchess  of,  vi.  125-127. 

Brittany,  Francis  i.,  Duke  of,  i.  52,  53,  54, 
56 ;  ii.  126. 

Brittany.  Francis  11.,  Duke  of,  iv.  35;  v. 
157 ;  vi.  81,  82,  III. 

Brittany,  Giles  of,  ii.  126. 

Brittany,  Marshal  of,  vi.  127. 

Broadbridge  (Brodebryge),  John,  iv.  280. 

Brodeston,  v.  234. 

Brok, ,  V.  117. 

Broke,  Wilts,  ii.  44. 

Broke  (Bruke),  Rob.  Willoughby,  Lord, 

vi.  118. 
Broke,  Mr.,  iii.  67. 

Broke, ,  a  scrivener,  iii.  263. 

Brokesby, ,  iii.  98. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


-,  ii.  199  ;iv.  279; 


Brome  (or  Broom), 

V.  32,  85,  161. 
Brome,  Edmund,  ii.  268,  311;  iii.  240; 

V.  73.  74,  75,  97,  98. 
Brome,  Mrs.,  v.  103. 
Bromehill,  Prior  of,  iv.  39. 
Bromholm   (Brumham   or   Broomholme), 

Norfolk,  ii.  19,  20,  21  ;   iv.   227,   228, 

230;  V.  Ill,  181,  200,  323. 
Bromholm,   Priory  of  St.  Andrew,  i.  25, 

35,  233,  308;    ii.  2,  22,  32-33,  34,  63; 

111.  252;  iv.  24,  124,  249;   V.  58,  301, 

319,  324;  vi.  28,  188,  190. 
Bromholm,  Prior  of,  i.  28,  29,  33  ;   ii.  10, 

21,  23,  24,  56,  63 ;  iii.  14 ;  iv.  39,  227, 

229,  231  ;  V.  119,  230,  242  ;  vi,  16,  162. 
Bromholm,  John,  Prior  of,  iii.  250-252  ; 

vi.  41-42. 
Bromholm,  Nic,  Prior  of,  ii.  20-21;  vi.  189. 
Bromholm,  Robert,   Prior   of,  ii.  96-97 ; 

vi.  189. 
Brone,  Sir  Anthony,  vi.  102. 

Brooke, ,  i.  81. 

Broom.     See  Brome. 
Broughton,  Sir  Robt.,  vi.  187. 
Broweston,  Bradwell,  Suffolk,  v.  107,  148, 

189. 

Brovirn  (Broun), ,  ii.  134 ;  v.  32. 

Brown,  Edmond,  ii.  309. 

Brown,  John,  Under  Sec.  of  England,iii.  108. 

Brown,  John,  iv.  31. 

Brown,  Mr.,  vi.  13,  14. 

Brown,  Mother,  v.  245. 

Brown,  Ric,  Alderman  of  Norwich,  iii. 

38  ;  vi.  40,  41. 
Brown,  Rob.,  iv.  103. 
Brown,  Thos.,  ii.  54,  65. 
Brown,  Sir  Thos.,  v.  300. 
Brown,  Wm.,  v.  319. 
Browne,  Anthony,  vi.  102,  187,  205. 
Browne,  Eliz.     See  Paston,  Eliz. 
Browne,  Sir  George,  i.  258;   iv.  311  ;  v. 

105,  131,  147,  152,  165,  181  ;  vi.  24-25, 

29,  201. 
Browne,  Margt.,  vi.  208. 
Browne,  Mary,  Daughter  of  Sir  George, 

vi.  202-205. 
Browne,  Matt.,  vi.  204,  205. 
Browne,  Robt. ,  v.  23-24 ;  vi.  205. 
Broyn.     See  Brayn. 
Bruce.     See  Brewes. 
Bruges,  i.  247  ;  iii.  306;  iv.  297-298,  299; 

V.  193,  194,  277. 
Bruke.  See  Broke. 
Brundall  (Brundehall),  Norfolk,  iii.  223  ; 

iv.  284. 
Brundale,    John,     Prior    of    Bromholme 

(1426),  ii.  29. 
Brunham,  iii.  128,  210;  iv.  93. 


Brussells,  i.  283 ;  v.  184,  259. 

Brustall,  Suffolk,  iii.  90. 

Brusy,  Pierce.     See  Brez^. 

Bruus,  Robt.,  Chancellor  of  Arch.  Chiche- 

ley,  ii.  27. 
Brychamwell,  iii.  261. 
Brygg.     See  Brigg. 
Bryghtylhed,  Brytyeff  or  Brythyeve.     See 

Brightlede. 
Brykkes,  Wm.,  vi.  116. 
Brykkys,  Sir  John,  priest,  v.  314,  315. 

Bryon, ,  vi.  58,  59. 

Bryse,  Sir  T. ,  ii.  266. 

Bryston,  Mr.,  v.  123. 

Bryston,  John,  ii.  308. 

Brytcham.     See  Bircham. 

Bube  (?),  John,  vi.  181. 

Buck  (Buk  or  Bukk),   John,   Parson  of 

Stratton,  i.  151  ;  ii.  194,  195. 
Buckenham  (Bokyngham),  iii.  72,  217. 
Buckenham  (Bokenhani),  Old,  vi.  190. 
Buckenham  Castle,  vi.  i. 
Buckenham     (Bukenham),     Edmund,    of 

Snyterton,  iii.  132. 
Buckingham,  Henry  Stafford,   Duke  of, 

(1460-83),  i.  292;   v.  62  J    vi.  I.     See 

also  Stafford. 
Buckingham,   Humphrey  Stafford,   Duke 

of  (1441-59),  i.  128,  133,  134,  161,  168, 

171,  172,  173,  304,  311,  336;  ii.  75-76, 

113,  161,  295,  297,  321  ;  iii.  25,  28,  29, 

30,  32,  33,  86,  92,  108,  118,  127,  268; 

*  His  brethren'  {i.e.  Arch.  Bourchier  and 

Viscount  Bourchier),  iii.  108. 
Buckingham,  Anne,  daughter  of,  iii.  218. 
Buckingham,  Wm.     See  Bokenham. 
Buckley,  Wm.,  i.  8 1. 
Buckram,  iv.  76. 
Buk,  Sir,  vi.  38. 
Bukle,  iii.  97. 
Bukman.     See  Bokenham. 
Bullock,  John,  iv.  31,  286. 
Bulman,  Master  John,  ii.  218;   iii.  135, 

141  ;  iv.  160,  187 ;  vi.  3. 
Bulmans,  Norfolk,  v.  300. 
Bunche,  Robert,  iv.  237,  244,  285. 
Bungay  (Bowunggey),  Suffolk,  i.  200  ;  iii. 

246  ;  vi.  58. 
Bunwell  (Bonewell),  Norfolk,  v.  299. 
Bureau  Brothers,  i.  123. 

Burflet, ,  ii.  224. 

Burgess  (Borges  or  Burgoys), ,  iv.  130. 

Burgeys, ,  iv.  124;  v.  10. 

Burgeys,  John,  iv.  266,  269. 

Burgeys,  Wm.,  ii.  48. 

Burgh,  Sir  Edward,  vi.  187. 

Burgh  (Borow),  Norfolk,  ii.  60 ;  iv.  284 ; 

vi.  149,  190. 
Burgh,  Wm.,  ii.  62. 

263 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Burghersh,  Sir  John,  i.  41. 
Burgundy,  i.  283,  291,  299  ;  iii.  1 30. 
Burgundy,   Bastard  of,   i.   281  ;   iv.   278, 

279,  298 ;  Armourer  of,  v.  194. 
Burgundy,  Mary,  Duchess  of,  i.  300. 
Burgundy,  Dukes  of.     See  Chas.  the  Bold 

(1467-77);  Philip  the  Good  (1419-67); 

Philip  the  Fair  (1482- 1506). 
Burlingham,  Norfolk,  i.  112  ;  ii.  266,  267. 
Burlingham,  South,  ii.  311. 
Burnam,  John,  vi.  109. 
Burnby,  Thos.  iii.  307. 
Burneviles,  in  Nacton,  iv.  II,  29,  109,  292; 

V.  92. 
Burneys  (Berners?),  Lord,  iii.  25. 
Burnham,  Norfolk,  ii.  214;  vi.  14;    Sir 

Rauf,  Parson  of,  i.  331,  332. 

Burton, ,  of  Norwich,  ii.  282. 

Burton,  J.,  iii.  263. 
Burton,  Seman,  iv.  103. 
Burvam,  S.  Jaques  de,  ii.  5. 

Bury, ,  ii.  195. 

Bury,  Thos.,  ii.  308,  312  ;  iii.  222. 

Bury,  Wm.,  ii.  276. 

Bury  St.  Edmunds  (Bery),  i.  85,  311 ;  ii. 

163,  164,  184  bis,  243  ;  iii.  135 ;  iv.  36, 

94,  256 ;  V.  94,  96 ;  vi.  85,  121. 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Abbot  of,  vi.  34. 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Monastery  of,  ii.  32. 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Parliament  of,  iii.  243. 

Bussard, ,  iii.  253. 

Busshop.     See  Bishop. 

Butler,  Lord  Sudley.     See  Sudley. 

Butler,  Henry,  iv.  165. 

Butler,  Sir  James,  son  of  Jas. ,  fourth  Earl 

of  Ormond,  ii.  89  note  4. 
Butler  (Boteler),  Sir  John,  v.  105. 
Butler  (Boteler),  John,  iii.  248;    iv.  92, 

203,  204. 
Butler  (Botiller),  Robt.,  ii.  191 ;  iii.  235 ; 

iv.  102,  140,  237,  243,  268,  285. 
Butler  (Botelore),  Wm.,  iii.  28. 
Butt,  John,  ii.  84. 
Bychamwelle,  v.  98. 
Bylaugh,  Roger.     See  Chirch,  Roger. 

Bylbys, ,  ii.  49. 

Byrde,  Wm.,  vi.  186. 
Byrdon,  Thos.,  ii.  271,  311. 
Bysshop.     See  Bishop. 

Cabell  (Capell?),  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  91. 

Cable, ,  vi.  108. 

Cade,  Jack,  the  rebel,  i.  44,  68-78,  126, 

156,  170;  ii.  145,  153-155,  207. 
Caen,  Normandy,  i.  9,  57,  67,  87 ;  ii.  5, 

118;  iii.  157,  306;  iv.  48. 
Caen,  Abbey  of  St.  Stephen's,  ii.  6. 
Caen,  *  Bole  Abbey,'  ii.  6. 
Cager,  Thos.,  v.  176. 

264 


Caister  (Castre),  Norfolk,  i.  26,  118- 120, 
150,  151,  153,  184,  195,  202-203,  209, 
214,  215,  218,  224,  225,  227-228,  229, 
230,  234,  237,  238,  240,  241,  243,  244, 
245,  258,  260,  262,  263-264,  272,  274, 
276,  284,  294-298,  309,  314,  321  ;  ii. 
4,  9>  30.  39,  40,  108,  134,  136,  149, 
152,  170,  171,  178,  192,  198,  199,  200, 
201,  212,  238,  239,  240,  279,  311,  329, 
334,  335;  iii-  3,  6,  9,  10,  11,  12,  14, 
15,  17,  18,  21,  22,  32,  35,  42,  43,  50, 
52,  68,  69,  71,  74,  76,  83,  87,  93,  94, 
97,  100,  104,  105,  109,  no,  115  (bis), 
117,  119,  121,  138,  142,  144,  145,  148- 
149,  160,  162,  164,  167,  193,  207,  212, 
217,  230,  235,  239,  250,  277,  286,  294, 
298,  310;  iv.  9,  45,  46,  52,  53,  54,  61, 
70,  72,  73,  74,  84,  86,  102,  103,  105, 
109-110,  125,  131,  133,  140,  142,  149, 
165,  168,  180,  182,  186,  192,  205,  223, 
230,  232,  234,  235,  237,  238,  239,  240, 
241,  242,  243,  244,  246,  247,  255,  256, 
265,  269,  270,  272,  282,  283,  284,  285, 
289,  292,  293,  294,  295,  297,  302,  303, 
306;  V.  8-9,  15,  17,  22,  23,  24,  25,  29, 
33,  36,  63,  70,  76,  78,  81,  82,  91,  92 
(bis),  94,  97,  109,  no,  117,  131,  142, 
146,  147,  150,  151,  163,  166,  171,  172- 
173,  185,  198,  201,  224,  235,  237,  238, 
239,  242-244,  246,  247,  251,  259,  262, 
275,  283,  293,  294,  301-302,  305,  310, 
314,  vi.  29,  33,  63,  69,  74  {bis),  76,  79, 
139.  Inventory  of  household  stuff  at, 
iv.  42.  Descent  of  the  Manor,  iv.  42. 
Expense  of  household  at,  iv.  149.  Vicar 
of,  see  Cutteler.  Presentation  to  chapel, 
v.  13,  14,  16.  Siege  of,  and  negotia- 
tions thereon,  i.  250-254,  256,  257,  265, 
340;  V.  36-37,  40-41,  42-45,  45-46,  47- 
49,  50-59,  60-61,65,73.  Inventory  of 
goods  and  guns  left  at,  after  siege,  t. 
59.  Intended  college  at.  See  under 
Fastolf,  Sir  John,  Will  of. 

Caister,  Bardolf,  v.  116,  299. 

Caister,  Cleres,  v.  299 ;  vi.  207. 

Caister,  Horning  Hall  in,  iv.  105. 

Caister  Hall,  Manor  of,  v.  305  ;  vi.  91. 

Caister  St.  Edmund's,  Norwich,  i.  285. 
Parson  of,  v.  78. 

Calabria  and  Lorraine,  Nic.  of  Anjou, 
Duke  of,  V.  216. 

Calais,  i.  64,  83,  88,  95,  96,  97,  103,  106- 
107,  108-110,  126,  128,  137,  138,  147, 
159,  162,  173,  176,  177,  178,  179,  180, 
181,  182,  183,  185,  186,  188,  239,  248, 
249,  277,  287,  288,  290,  291,  294,  300  ; 
ii.  51,  146,  148,  162,  257,  299,  325  ;  iii. 
92,  118,  126,  130,  141,203,204,  312; 
iv.  35,  50,  57,  58,  1^,  264 ;  v.  28,  65, 


GENERAL  INDEX 


III,  152,  154,  163,  176,  180,  181,  184, 
185,  187,  188,  189,  190,  191,  193,  194, 
195,  196,  198,  199,  203,  iis,  219,  225, 
226,  235,  237,  238  {dis),  239  {dis),  247, 
251,  253,  256,  258,  259,  270,  274,  277, 
279,  280,  286,  287,  290,  298  ;  vi.  34, 
60,  83,  144,  145. 

Calais,  Deputy  and  council  of,  v.  224. 
Lieutenant  of.  See  Keriell,  Sir  Thos. 
Mayor  and  merchants  of  the  staple  of, 
ii.  299  ;  V.  194.  Treasurer  of,  v.  152. 
See  Elkenhed,  Marshal  of,  v.  224. 
Master  Porter  of,  v.  282. 

Calcote,  or  Caldecote,  Suffolk,  i.  212, 
234;  iv.  9,  68,  69,  71,  151,  157,  192, 
193,  238,  244,   289,  292 ;  T.   92,    107, 

148,  189,  234. 
Calkestowcy  v.  122. 
Call,  Robert,  iii.  235. 

Calle,  John,  son  of  Ric. ,  vi.  52,  69. 
Calle  (Kale),  Richard,    Bailiff  to  Paston 
family,  i.  202,  209-210,  212,  216,  221, 

228,  254-256,  285,  311;  ii.  187-188; 
iii.  22,  219,  220  (bis),  239,  245,  246, 
249,  277-278,  284,  296.  298,  315-316, 
318-320;  iv.  4,  9,  17,  18  (^w),  25,  27, 
29-30,  41,  45,  46  {bis),  58,  61,  63,  64 
{bis),  65,  66,  68,  71-72,  81,  87,  92-93, 
97,    107-108,   116,   121,  122,  123,  124, 

126,  127,  132,  135,  138,  140,   146,   148, 

149,  152  {bis),  154,  155.  156  {bis),  157, 
158,  159  {bis),  160,  160-162  {bis),  163, 
164,  167,  171,  174,  175.  176,  179,  181, 
190,  191,  192,  194,  195,  199,  202,  203, 
227,  238,  255,  256,  271,  271-272,  274, 
276,  277,  299 ;  V.  2,  3,  6,  22,  24-25,  25- 
28,  33,  49,   59.  61,  63,  97,   120,  121, 

127,  129,  130,   150,  153,  168-169,  197, 

229,  232,  233,  263  ;  vi.  20-21,  108,  138, 
162-163  {bis),  166  ;  imprisonment  of,  iii. 
318-320;  engagement  to  Margery  Paston, 
V.  21,  39. 

Calle,  Richard  and  Wm.,  sons  of  the  pre- 
ceding, vi.  52. 

Caiman,  Nich.,  iv.  197. 

Calthorpe, ,  i.   324 ;   iv.  60 ;   v.  93, 

227. 

Calthorpe,  Alianora,  ii.  46. 

Calthorpe,  Dame  Elirabeth,  v.  66,  175  ; 
vi.  121. 

Calthorpe,  John,  iv.  105. 

Calthorpe,  Lady,  i.  264 ;  v.  108  ;  vi.  57, 

59-  ..     „ 

Calthorpe,  Master,  11.  180,  224,  225,  240; 

iii.  140;  iv.  107,  108;  vi.  119. 
Calthorpe,  Philip,  vi.  155. 
Calthorpe,  Sir  Wm.,  i.  31,  285  ;  ii.  46; 

iii.   266,  286 ;    iv.  3,  266 ;    v.    17,  90, 

302. 


Calthorpe,  William,   i.   216-217,  338;  ii. 

308  ;  iii.  128,  227,  276 ;  v.  32,  179. 
Calthorpe,  Young,  iii.  6,  no. 

Caly, ,  ii.  157,  278. 

Calybut, ,  ii.  159. 

Camber,  the,  near  Rye,  vi.  155. 
Cambridge,  i.  27,  116,  241,  319;  ii.  40, 
100,  103,  106,  107  ;  iii.   123,  135,  215, 
220;  iv.  9,  21,  33,  36,  102,  241,  293; 
v.  iz{bit),  137,  174,  314;  vi.  129,  130, 
157;  vi.  206.     Peter  House  in,  ii.  49. 
TrinityHall,ii.40.  Provost  of  St.  Mary's, 
iv.  87,  140.     Scholar  of,  ii.  106. 
Cambridgeshire,  iv.  95,  1 16,  125 ;  v.  95. 
Camplyon,  Robt.,  ii.  313. 
Candle.     '  Set  a  candle  before  the  devil, ' 

iv.  12. 
Cane,  Dan  Thomas  of,  ii.  21. 
Canon,  Thos.,  ii.  141. 
Canon,  Thos.,  the  elder,  iii.  23. 
Canterbury,  i.  156,  249,  266;  iii.  1 3,  I18  ; 
iv.  90.    187,  256,  300;  V.   40,  74,  75, 
112,  185,  245;  vi.  153,  206. 
Canterbury,  Archbishops  of.     See  Stafford, 
John  (1443-52)  ;  Kemp,  John  (1452-4) ; 
Bourchier,   Thos.    (1454-86)  ;    Morton, 
John  (i486- 1 500). 
Canterbury,  Auditor  of  Archbishop  of,  iv. 
286.     Court  of  Audience  of,  i.  216,  224  ; 
iv.   182.     Monastery  of  St.  Augustine's, 
iv.  90. 
Canterbury  (Caunterbury),  Thos.,  iv.  279. 
Canwike,  Laurence,  vi.  207. 
Canyngs,  Wm.,  iii.  126. 
Capell.     See  Cabell. 

Capgrave, ,  i.  109. 

Cappe,  John,  iii.  237. 

Capron, ,  ii.  102. 

Capron,  R.,  v.  149. 
Carbalde,  John,  v.  184. 
Carbonell,  Sir  John,  ii.  II,  46. 
Carbonell,  Margery,  ii.  il. 
Carbonel,  Sir  Richard,  i.  30. 
Carbrooke,  Norfolk,  v.  168. 
Carbrooke,  Master  of,  iii.  261  ;  iv.  41. 
Cards,  Game  of,  vi.  79. 
Carentan  (Karentine),  Normandy,  ii.  6. 
Carenton,  John,  Bailiff  of  Maldon,  v.  148. 
Carew,  Sir  William,  vi.  102,  187. 
Carleton,  Norfolk,  v.  299 ;   vi.   75,   191, 

192,  195- 
Carleton,  by  Snaith,  Yorks,  ii.  19. 
Carlisle,    iv.    50.     Siege   of,   i.   205 ;   iii. 

276. 
Carlisle,  Bishop  of,  i.  336. 
Carpentarius,  Robertus,  ii.  3. 
Carr,  John,  vi.  173. 
Carre,  Sir  Wm.,  v.  105. 
Carre,  Wm.,  vi.  155. 

265 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Carrow,  Prioress  of,  iv.  227. 

Carsell,  France,  ii,  7. 

Carvel,  a  kind  of  ship,  iii.  306. 

Carvil,  Edmund,  iv.  196. 

Gary  our,  Roger,  ii.  293. 

Case,  John,  iv.  178. 

Case  wick,  Norfolk,  vi.  190. 

Cassell,  V.  297. 

Cassibelaun,  vi.  65. 

Castile,  Henry  iv.,  King  of,  iv.  35.     See 

also  Philip. 
Castile,  Queens  of.     See  Isabella  and  Joan. 
Castillon,  in  Perigord,  i.  122,  125 ;  ii.  123 

note  I. 
Castleacre,  Norfolk,  ii.  64,  215. 
Castlecombe,    Wilts.,    i.    152;    iii.    126. 

Parson  of.     See  Howes,  Thos. 
Castle  Rising,  i.  27. 
Caston,  Norfolk,  ii.  11. 
Caston,  Wm.,  Esq.,  ii.  46. 
Castre.     See  Caister. 

Catelyn, ,  iv.  256. 

Cates,  John,  ii.  60. 

Catesby,  John,  Sergeant-at-law,   iv.    88, 

105,  218. 
Catherine  (Kateryne),  Mrs.,  ii.   13 1  ;   v. 

161 ;  vi.  45. 
Catherine  of  Arragon,  i.  317  ;  vi.  161. 
Cattes,  Norfolk,  iv.  292,  295,  296 ;  v.  76, 

94. 
Caudebec  (Galdebek),  France,  i.  56,  106  ; 

ii.  6. 
Caulx,  i.  106. 
Caus,  Richard,  vi.  94. 
Causton.     See  Cawston. 
Causton,  Richard  de,  ii.  10,  31. 
Causton,    Richard,    Vicar  of  Paston,  vi. 

189  {bis). 
Cavendish,  Suffolk,  ii.  315. 

Cavendish, ,  ii.  315. 

Cawston  (Causton),  Norfolk,  ii.  93  ;   iv. 

161,  207,  256. 
Caxton,  Wm.,  i.  153,  323. 
Celot,  M.  J.,  ii.  218. 
Chaderton,  Edmund,  vi.  93. 
Chafeveleyns,  javelins,  iv.  266. 
Chalais  in  Perigord,  i.  122. 
Chalers,  Sir  John,  ii.  307. 
Chamberlain,  My  Lord,  iv.  275 ;   v.  62, 

148,  149,  166,  178,  247,  251,  252,  290; 

vi.  20. 
Chamberlain,  Sir  Robt.,  iv.  60;  vi.  2. 
Chamberlain,  Lady,  iv.  82. 
Chamberlain,  Sir  Roger,  i.  74,  164  ;  ii.  75, 

185  note  I  ;  iii.  34,  36  note  i,  38,  76  ; 

iv.  73  ;  v.  309. 
Chamberlain,  Sir  William,  i.  338  ;  ii.  185  ; 

iii.  278;  iv.  2,  18. 
Chamberlain,  W.,  iii.  196,  227. 

266 


Chambers  (or  Chambre) ,  Eleanor,  ii.  5 1 ,  52. 
Chambre,  John,  ii.  52. 
Chambre,  THos.,  ii.  52,  84,  311  ;  iv.  279. 
Chambrois  (Chamberexs)  Castle,  France, 

i.  56 ;  ii.  6. 
Chamer,  George  of,  ii.  312. 
Champagne,  France,  i.  13. 
Chancehose,  Nic,  ii.  3. 
Chancellor,  My  Lord,  i.  60,  62,  63  ;  ii. 

20,  205,  207,  208,  210;  iv.  272,  273, 

274,  310;  vi.  20. 
Chancellors,  Lord.     See  Beaufort,  Henry 

(1413-17    and    1424-6);    Kemp,    John 

(1426-32  and   1450-4);    Stafford,  John 

(1432-50);     Salisbury,     Rich.     Nevill, 

Earl    of    (1454-5)  ;     Bourchier,    Thos. 

(1455-6) ;   Waynflete,  Wm.    (1456-60)  ; 

Nevill,    George   (1460-7   and   1470-1); 

Stillington,  Robt.   (1467-73);   Rother- 

ham,    Thos.    (1474-83);   Alcock,  John 

(1485-6) ;  Morton,  John  (1487-1500). 
Chancery,  ii.  227  ;  v.  314. 
Chapell,  John,  ii.  65. 
Chapelleyn,  Robert,  i.  331. 
Chapman,  Sir  John,  Rector  of  St.  Mary's, 

Melton,  iv.  306 ;  vi.  5. 
Chapman,  John,  v.  56. 
Chapman,  Thos.,  iv.  47-48. 
Chardequeyns,      Preserve  of  quinces,   ii. 

276. 
Charles  il.,  i.  27. 
Charles  vii..  King  of  France,   i.  48-57, 

95,  109,  120-125;  "•  121-127 ;  i"«  125, 

234,  306. 
Charles  viil.,  vi.  82,  83. 
Charles    the    Bold,   Duke    of    Burgundy 

(1467-77),   i.   107,  239,  247,  259,  277, 

288,  289,  299  ;    iv.   277,  296,   299  ;  V. 

175,  184,  219,  225,  258,  270,  287. 
Charles,  Ric,  ii.  95,  282;  iv.   154,  155, 

228,  229;  vi.  180. 
Charles,  Thos.,  vi.  143. 
Charles  and  his  fellowship,  ii.  248. 
Charleton,  Sir  Thos.,  i.  137. 
Charolois,  Chas. ,  Count  of,  i.  247. 

Chatterley, ,  i.  336. 

Chaucer,  Geoffrey,  i.  323. 

Chaucer  (or  Chawsers),  Thos.,  Chief  Butler 

to  Henry  v.,  and  son  of  the  Poet,  i.  39, 

41,  42;  ii.  29,  31. 
Chaumpeneys,  Ric.  ii.  3. 
Chawsers.     See  Chaucer. 
Chawson,  Brittany,  vi.  126. 
Checkroll,  ii.  181. 
Chedworth,    John,     Bishop    of    Lincoln 

(1451-71),  i.  127,  336  ;  iii.  47-48. 
Cheke,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  152. 
Chelmsford,  Essex,  i.  171  ;  vi.  121,  122, 
181,  182. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Chelsfeld,  Kent,  iv.  310. 

Chelsea  (Chelchyche),  vi.  108. 

Cheney,  Sir  John,  vi.  118,  187. 

Chenne.     See  Sheen. 

Cherbourg,  i.  57,  67,  175  ;  ii.  6,  162,  291. 

Cherche.     See  Chirch. 

Cheseman, ,  iv.  18  {bis). 

Chesham,  Thos.,  ii.  69. 

Cheshire,  iv.  96. 

Chess,  Game  of,  vi.  66. 

Chesten,  Henry,  iv.  150. 

Chester,  i.  81,  171,  173^  190;  iii.  92,  108, 

233- 
Chester,   Bishop  of.     See  Coventry  and 

Lichfield. 
Chesterfield,  Yorkshire,  v.  70. 
Chesteyne,  Friar  John,  iv.  257. 

*  Chevers  Mater,'  ii.  134. 

Chevissche.  To  procure,  or  provide,  v. 
48. 

Chevyssance,  Borrowing  at  interest,  iv. 
267. 

Cheynour,  John,  iv.  280. 

Cheyny, ,  v.  32. 

Cheyny,  Sir  Robt.,  vi.  102,  187. 

Chicheley,  Henry,  Archbishop  of  Canter- 
bury (1414-43),  ii.  27. 

Chichester,  i.  75. 

Chief  Justice,  ii.  20. 

Child  (Chylde), ,  iv.  282. 

Child,  Richard,  ii.  293. 

Child,  Thos.,  vi.  15,  16. 

Child,  Wm.,  ii.  4. 

Chinon,  France,  i.  54. 

Chippenham,  Master,  iv.  268. 

Chirch,  Nicholas,  ii.  271,  311;  iv.  237, 
242,  243,  284. 

Chirch,  Roger,  i.  113,  114,  115;  ii.  263- 
264,  266,  267,  270,  271  (<JzV),  272,  274, 
308,  312. 

Chirch,  Robert,  ii.  311. 

Chitock's  Son,  iv.  181. 

Choke,  Richard,  Serjeant-at-law,  after- 
wards Judge  of  the  Common  Pleas,  iii. 

84. 
Chrewys, ,  iv.  12. 

*  Christopher,  The,'  ship,  v.  190. 
Christopher,  St.,  Life  of,  vi.  66. 
Christopher,  iii.  106. 

Church.     See  Chirch. 

Church  Close  in  Paston,  v.  209. 

Chyllins,  Richard,  iv.  158. 

Chynne.     To  split,  crack,  ii.  19. 

Cicero  (Tully),  de  Amicitia  et  de  SenectutCy 

i.  153 ;  vi.  66. 
Cinnamon,  v.  119. 
Cinque  Ports,  i.  75* 
Clarence,   George,   Duke    of,   brother    of 

Edward  iv.,   i.  212,  248-249,  252,  253, 


257,  271-272,  281,  313  ;  iii.  233  ;  iv.  25  ; 

V.  3S»  43.  44,  46,  47,  55,  63,  7°,  71,  80, 

96,  135,  188,  189,  195,  199,  270.     See 

also  George. 
Clarence,  Lionel,  Duke  of,  i.  191. 
Clarence,    Thos.,    Duke    of,    brother    of 

Henry  v.,  ii.  8;  iii.  61,  63,  148,  149. 
Clarendom,  i.  130. 
Clark,  Thos.,  vi.  157. 
Claryngton,  John,  vi.  19. 
Claverying,  John  de,  ii.  3. 
Claxton,  Norfolk,  i.  112;  ii.  260;  iv.  161, 

163. 
Clay.  John,  iii.  233. 
Clay,  Thos.,  iii.  199. 
Clay.     See  Cley. 
Claymond,  Thos.,  i.  338. 

Clederro, ,  vi.  34-35. 

Clement,  Mr.,  iv.  123. 

Clement,  Master  (Felmingham ?),  iii.  21 1. 

Clement,  John,  vi.  28. 

Clement,  Robt.,  ii.  305. 

*  Clenefyed,  strek  met,  and  non  inmet,'  iv. 

130. 
Clerc,  John,  ii.  188,  191. 

Clere, ,  ii.  190 ;  vi.  64. 

Clere,  Anne,  Wife  of  Robt.,  vi.  149,  150. 
Clere,  Edmund  or  Esmond,  i.  157  ;  ii.  30, 

51,  57,  67,  68,  307  ;  iii.  13-14,  126,  136, 

246 ;  iv.  105,  116,  126  ;  vi.  33, 192,  193. 

198. 
Clere,  Eliz.,  widow  of  Robt.,  i.  155,  291, 

324;  ii.  99,  108,  109-111,  \dp{bis)y  141, 

223,  224,  278,  280,  284-285,  286,  330  ; 

iii.  3,  264;  iv.  13,  27,  61,  66,  83,  105, 

180,  258  ;  V.  93,  118,  125,  208,  304-305  ; 

vi.  108,  150. 
Clere,  John,  of  Ormesby,  ii.  30. 
Clere,  Margaret,  iv.  61. 
Clere,  Mistress,  ii.  83. 
Clere,  Robt.,  of  Ormesby,  ii.  30,  39,  51, 

57,  64-65,  68 ;  vi.  192,  193,  198. 
Clere,  Robt.,  Son  of  preceding  (knighted 

1494),  V.  220,  221,  222,  227,  232-233, 

324;  vi.  108,  149,  152,  155,  167. 
Clere,  Wm.,ii.  85. 

Clerk, ,  vi.  166. 

Clerk,  Geoffrey,  iv.  9. 

Clerk,  Henry,  iv.  237,  242,  284. 

Clerk,  John,  iii.  141  ;  iv.  237,  244,  269. 

Clerk,  Margaret,  iv.  20. 

Clerk,  Roger,  iii.  307. 

Gierke,  Robt.,  iv.  279;  v.  105. 

Gierke,  Wm.,  iv.  280. 

Cleton,  Wm.,  i.  148. 

Clewer(Cleworth),  Windsor,  i.  317;  vi.  172. 

Cley,  Norfolk,  vi.  132,  200,  201. 

Cley,  Sir  John,  iii.  312 ;  iv.  83  ;  v.  105. 

Cley  hall,  iii.  263. 

267 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Clifford, ,  heirs  of,  ii.  253,  254. 

Clifford,    Henry,   fourteenth  Lord   (1485- 

1523),  vi.  151,  187. 
Clifford,  John,  twelfth  Lord  (1422-55),  i. 

no,  134,  161 ;    ii.  296 ;   iii.  25,  27,  28, 

29,  30»  31- 
Clifford,  John,  thirteenth  Lord  (1455-61), 

i.  177,  178,  193-194;  iii.  126,  267,  268, 

276. 
Clifford,  Sir  Robt.,  vi.  118,  187. 
Clifton,  Sir  Jerveys,  of  York,  v.  104;    vi. 

151. 
Clifton,  Lady,  ii.  275. 
Clifton,  Sir  John,  iii.  93,  94. 
Clifton,  Robt.,  ii.  217. 
Clifton,  Sir  Robt.,  Kt.,  ii.  14;  iii.  12 ;  vi. 

102. 
Clinton,  John,  fifth  Lord,  i.  161 ;  iii.  30, 

199 ;  iv.  57. 
Clippesby,  Catherine,  i.  307,  310;   vi.  23, 

25- 
Clippesby,  John,  ii.  308 ;  vi.  24-25. 
Clippesby,  John,  of  Oby,  vi.  24,  164. 
Clippesby,  Will.,  ii.  271. 
Clippesby's  Wife,  ii.  95. 
Clist  Heath,  near  Exeter,  i.  165.         ^ 
Clopton,  Mr.,  vi.  129,  130. 

Clopton, ,  V.  89,  274. 

Clopton's  Manor,  Suffolk,  vi.  80. 
Clopton,  John,  Sheriff  of  Norfolk,  i.  337  ; 

ii.  258,  260,  261,  263-264,  314-315  (^'•^)> 

316  J  iii.  106;  iv.  105. 
Clopton,  Wm.,  i.  87 ;  ii.  315-316. 
Clopton,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  190,  191. 
Clot  shon.     Clouted  or  patched  shoes,  iv. 

67. 
Cloth  of  gold,  v.  245,  246. 
Cloves,  V.  119. 
Clowt  up.     Patch  up,  V.  9. 
Clugny,  France,  ii.  20. 
Clugny,  Abbot  of,  i.  35,  36  ;  ii.  32. 
Cluniac  Order,  ii.  32. 
Clyf,  Wm.,  iii.  109. 
Clyfton.     See  Clifton. 
Cobbes  place,  ii.  91. 
Cobham,  v.  316. 
Cobham,   Eleanor,   Wife    of    Humphrey, 

Duke  of  Gloucester,  ii.  114  note  3. 
Cobham,  Lord,  i.  31,  98-99,  335;  v.  105. 
Cobham,  Sir  Reynold,  ii.  114,  115,  253. 
Cockermouth,  iii.  269. 
Cockley  Cley,  Norfolk,  ii.  215  ;  iii.  261. 
Cocus,  Thos.,  vi.  17. 
Coetivy,  Oliver  de,  i.  122. 
Cofe.     See  Cove. 
Cognac,  i.  95. 
Cok,  Alex.,  V.  98. 
Coke  (Cook),  John,  ii.  52,  269,  310;  vi. 

19. 

268 


Coke,  Lincoln,  iii.  133. 

Coke,  Wm.,  ii.  137  ;  v.  94. 

Coke  (Koke),  Sanders.     See  Kok,  Sandre. 

Cokett  (Kokett),  ,  i.    283,    293;    ii. 

278 ;  iv.  74  ;  V.  197,  257,  293,  294  [bis). 
Cokett,  John,  ii.  308. 
Cokfeldes,  Norfolk,  v.  299. 
Cokkow,  John,  ii.  267. 
Cokkow,  Thos.,  ii.  308,  312. 

Colby, ,  ii.  60. 

Colby,  Henry  de,  ii.  3. 
Colby es,  Walsham,  ii.  63. 

Colbyne, ,  iii.  234. 

Colchester,  i.  75,  260 ;  ii.  226,  322,  323 ; 

iii.  248 ;  V.  84 ;  vi.  I2I,  182. 
Cole,  Jas.,  ii.  27. 
Cole,  John,  ii.  194,  195  ;  iv.  57. 
Cole,  Wm.,  ii.  134,  189. 
Cole,  Wm.,   'Cole  and  Watkin's  (Ship- 
dam's)  Chamber,'  iii.  182. 
Coleby  (Colby),  Norfolk,  iv.  215. 
Colens,  Wm.,  iv.  228. 
Coles,  John,  iv.  279. 
Coleshill,  i.  173. 
Colet,  Henry,  v.  74,  289 ;  vi.  77,  149,  150. 

Colet, ,  vi.  36. 

Colin,  servant  of  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  iii.  93. 

Colins, ,  ii.  228. 

Colinson,  Robt.,  a  priest,  iii.  41. 
*Colinus  Gallicus,' i.  152,  note  6 ;  iii.  97, 

213,  230,  231. 
Colle,  V.  259. 

Colley  Weston,  Northamptonshire,  vi.  158. 
Collys,  Harry,  ii.  93,  94. 
Colman  or  Coleman,  John,  iii.  315  J  iv.  93, 

156;  V.  97. 
Colman,  Nich.,  iii.  93,  238,  246;  iv.  94. 
Colneise,  Bailiff  of,  iii.  90. 
Colneys,  Carleton,  vi.  75. 

Colson, ,  iv.  279. 

Colte, ,  of  Newcastle,  iv.  140. 

Colte,  Thos.,  iii.  199,  249. 

Colton,  John,  i.  332. 

Colvyle,  John,  ii.  299 ;  v.  242,  251,  260. 

Colyet,  iv.  148,  226. 

Colyns, ,  iii.  214. 

Combesdon,  Kent,  iv.  309,  311. 
Comenaunte.     A  covenant,  ii.  283. 
Comet,  *A  greet  gleymyng  sterre'  seen, 

iii.  75. 
Compiegne,  France,  iii.  58,  64. 
Compostella,  St.  James  of,  i.  287  ;  v.  186, 

190. 
Concarnewe,  Brittany,  vi.  126. 
Conches,  Normandy.     See  Counsheux. 
Coningsby,  Humph.,  vi.  205. 
Conorhithe,  ii.  83. 

Constable, ,  iii.  114. 

Conway  Castle,  i.  81. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Conyers, ,  vi.  2. 

Conyers,  John,  Son  of  Sir  Robt.,  iii.  210. 

Conyers,  Sir  John,  iii.  199. 

Conyers,  Sir  Robt.,  ii.  240,  275-276;    iii. 

128 ;  iv.  66. 
Conyers,  Sir  Wm.,  i.  249. 
Coo,  John,  ii.  159. 
Cook.     See  Coke  and  Kook. 
Cook,  Henry,  iv.  280 ;  v.  304,  307. 
Cook,  Jas.,  ii.  317. 
Cook  (Kook),  John,  iii.  90,  91 ;  v.  6,  154, 

177,  272. 
Cook,  Robert,  iv.  279. 
Cooke,  Alderman,  i.  71. 
Cookesay,  Sir  Thos.,  vi.  187. 
Cookeson,  Thurstan,  v.  97. 
Coole,  Robt.,  ii.  187. 
Coomber,  Ric  ,  iii.  309. 
Cooting,  Sir  Wm.     See  Coting. 
Coppes,  iv.  71. 
Coppini,  Francesco,  Bishop  of  Temi,  i. 

186. 
Coppyng,  John,  iii.  282. 
Copschotyn.     High  crested,  iv.  306. 
Corbet,  Sir  Robt.,  v.  105. 

Corbett, ,  vi.  153. 

Corbrygg,  Simon,  iii.  263. 

Corby,  or  Courby,  the  carrier,  v.  136,  212. 

Corbyn,  Wm.,  iii.  28. 

Cork,  John  Paston  (alias  Wortes),  made 

Bishop  of,  i.  33  ;  ii.  22,  26,  27. 
Cornburght,  Averey,  iv.  47-48. 

Cornewaleys, ,  vi.  130. 

Cornewaleys,  Thos.,  iv.  105. 
Cornwall,  i.  281  ;  iii.  269. 
Cornwall,  Sir  John,  ii.  8. 
Cornwall,  a  gentleman  of,  iv.  194. 
Coronation  of  Edward  iv.,  iii.  276,  278, 

280,  286. 
Coroumbr  (?),  Yorkshire,  iii.  269. 
Cosard,  Philip,  v.  91. 
Cossey  (Costessey);  Norfolk,  i.  219,  221, 

223,  227,  231;    ii.   170,  28s;*iv.   137, 

147,  148,  155,  158,  159,  163,  164,  170, 

171,  179,  204,  205,  207. 
Cossey,  Bailiff  of,  i.  218,  221,  227,  231  ; 

iv.  137,  142,  143,  148,  155,  160,  170, 

171,  186,  203,  205  ;  V.  321. 
Costaunce.     See  Coutances. 

Costard, ,  ii.  156,  158,  249. 

Costard,   Francis,  ii.   113,  172,  228;    iii. 

236,  282,  296. 
Costers^  vi.  50  note  2. 
Costessey.     See  Cossey. 

Costid  (?), ,  ii.  66. 

Coteler,  Edw.,  ii.  288. 

Coteler,  Robt.     See  Cutler. 

Coting  (Cooting  or  Cutting),  Wm.,  ii.  29, 

102-103  ;  iii.  263 ;  iv.  108 ;  v.  6,  86. 


Cotman,  Sir  Richard,  v.  320. 

Cotton,  Suffolk,  i.  209,  225,  227-228,  229- 
231,  234,  240,  340;  ii.  170;  iii.  no, 
308,  309,  315,  316,  317,  319;  iv.  9,  52, 
62,  63,  71,  72,  157,  168,  185,  191,  193, 
197,  198,  199,  200,  235,  274,  292,  303  ; 
v.  5  ;  vi.  106,  107. 

Cotton,  Parson  of,  ii.  195. 

Cotton  (Quotton),  Wm.,  of  Cambridge- 
shire, Receiver  of  the  Duchy  of  Lan- 
caster, ii.  209 ;  iii.  28,  30,  31, 

Cotton,  Mr.,  vi.  157. 

Coubitt.     See  Retford. 

Couche,  John,  ii.  67. 

Coule,  Wm.,  ii.  31. 

Councils,  Great,  iii.  92. 

Counsheux  (Conches,  Normandy  ?),  i.  55  ; 
ii.  5- 

Courcy  (Cursy),  France,  ii.  6. 

Courtenay,  Sir  Hugh,  v.  105. 

Courtenay,  John,  iii.  307. 

Courtenay,  Sir  Philip,  v.  105. 

Courtenay,  Piers,  Bishop  of  Exeter,  vi.  81. 

Courtenay,  Rich.,  Bishop  of  Norwich,!.  30. 

Courtenay.     See  Devonshire,  Earl  of. 

Courtenays,  v.  80,  113. 

Courtonne  (Curton),  France,  ii.  6. 

Cousinot,  Wm.,  French  Ambassador,  ii. 
121,  124. 

Coutances  (Normandy),  ii.  6. 

Couth.     Publicly  known,  iii.  41. 

Cove  (Cofe),  Wm.,  of  North  Cove,  Suffolk, 
iii.  264. 

Coventry,  i.  75,  152,  172,  173,  182,  189, 
244,  249,  250,  313 ;  ii.  89,  90;  iii.  103, 
108,  198,  233,  242 ;  Parliament  at,  iii. 
226;  Recorder  of,  ii.  176. 

Coventry  and  Lichfield,  Bishop  of,  for- 
merly called  Bishop  of  Chester.  See 
Booth,  Wm.,  and  Hales,  John. 

Covine.     Intrigue,  ii.  271,  312. 

Cowhaw,  Nacton,  Suffolk,  iii.  5,  20,  85, 
90,  91. 

Cowling,  Suffolk,  iii.  155,  157. 

Cowntewery.     Counter  or  desk,  ii.  281. 

Cowper, ,  vi.  120- 121. 

Cowper,  Aleyn,  iv.  280. 

Cragg.     Stoneware,  vi.  50. 

Craksheld, ,  v.  244,  245. 

Crane, ,  ii.  315  ;  iii.  92. 

Crane,  Alice  or  Alson,  ii.  135,  301 ;  iii. 
40,  115  ;  iv.  223. 

Crane,  Eliz.,  vi.  206. 

Crane,  John,  ii.  148-149;  iii.  31,  40 
note  I. 

Crane,  Margaret,  iii,  31. 

Crawethorn, ,  v.  208. 

Cray,  North  Kent,  iv.  309. 

Crayford,  i.  335. 

269 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Cressell,  Monsieur  de,  iii.  306. 

Cressener, ,  iii.  2. 

Cressingham,  Norfolk,  i.  306;  ii.  31,  159, 
220 ;  iv.  256 ;  vi.  17,  27-28,  96,  97. 

Cressingham,  Parson  of,  ii.  31,  219. 

Crevecoeur,  Ph.  de,  v.  297. 

Croft,  Sir  Ric,  v.  105;  vi.  69,  loi,  187. 

Croile,  France,  ii.  7. 

Croker,  Sir  John,  v.  105,  113. 

Crome,  N.,  iii.  50;  iv.  76,  77,  155,  156. 

Cromer  (Crowmer),  Norfolk,  i.  25,  177, 
254,  308,  309 ;  ii.  19,  64,  136,  187,  244, 
292-293;  iii.  126,  128,  196;  V.  298;  vi. 
24,  29. 

Cromer,  Pers  of,  ii.  68. 

Cromes,  ii.  128. 

Cromwell,  Ralph,  Lord  Treasurer  of  Eng- 
land, i.  31,  59,  131,  163,  336 ;  ii.  38,  47, 
120,  190,  197,  198,  200,  275,  324;  iii. 
9,  30,  41,  44,  50,  52,  66,  69,  73,  156. 

Cromwell,  Humphrey  Bourchier,  Lord 
(1461-71),  iv.  8;  V.  100. 

Cromwell,  SirThos.,  v.  105. 

Crosseby, ,  iv.  270. 

Crostwight  (Crostweyt),  Norfolk,  Parson 
of,  iv.  229. 

Crowland  Abbey,  i.  248. 

Crowmer.     See  Cromer. 

Crowmer, ,  i.  72,  74 ;  iv.  61. 

Crowmer,  Sir  Jas.,  v.  105. 

Crowmer,  Robt.,  vi.  I54-I5S' 

Croyland,  Prior  of,  i.  66. 

Croxton, ,  ii.  158. 

Croxton  (Croxeston),  Audrey,  iv.  224. 

Croxton,  Thos.,  iv.  117. 

Cryne,  T.,  vi.  55-56. 

Cubitt.     See  Kubyte. 

Cullynge, ,  iv.  10. 

Cumberton,  Richard,  iv.  279. 

Curde,  John,  iv.  22. 

Currants.     See  Raisins. 

Curson,  Sir  John,  ii.  216. 

Curson,  Philip,  iv.  231. 

Cursy.     See  Courcy. 

Curteys,  John,  v.  306. 

Curton.     See  Courtonne. 

Curt  baron^  vi.  175. 

Custans, ,  ii.  1 30* 

Cutler  (Coteler),  Robt.,  Vicar  of  Caister, 
iv.  102,  103,  104,  124  note  3,  228,  229, 
237,  238,  241,  242,  243,  285  ;  v.  ^6y  67; 
vi.  50. 

Cutting.     See  Coting. 

Cuttyng,  Gees,  ii.  23  note  i. 

Cyselond.     See  Sisland, 

Dacre  of  the    North,   Ralph,   first  Lord 

(1459-62),  iii.  268;  iv.  51. 
Dacre  (Dakarys)  of  the   South,  Richard 

270 


Fynes,  Lord  (1459-84),  i.  193,  215  ;  iv. 

57,    61 ;    v.    62 ;    Thos.    Fynes,    Lord 

(1484-1534),  i.  69;  vi.  151. 
Delalaunde,  Sir  Thos.,  v.  70. 
Dalby,  Constantine,  iv.  105-106,  124. 
Dale,  Edward,  iii.  308,  316,  317,  319;  iv. 

303. 

D'Alen9on,  Due,  i.  106. 

Dalling,  Norfolk,  iii.  287. 

Dalling,  Vicar  of,  iv.  230,  231. 

Dalling, ,  Under  Escheator,  ii.  200, 

201,  212. 

Dalling,  Robt.,  i.  114;  ii.  267,  271,  274, 
308,311. 

Dalling,  Sir  Roger,  iv.  8. 

Dalling,  Thos.,  ii.  271,  311. 

Dalling,  Wm.,  ii.  38-39,  214;  iii.  263. 

Dam  (Damme),  John,  i.  44,  90 ;  ii.  85,  95, 
111-112,  128,  133,  148,  176,  179,  180, 
186,  217,  223,  225,  228,  279,  315  ;  iii. 
227,  239,  266,  270,  298;  iv.  15,  16,  17, 
27,  48,  75,  250,  251,  252,  254 ;  v.  308; 
vi.  189,  192,  193,  198,  199. 

Dam,  Simon,  iv.  280,  281  ;  v.  196,  252. 

Dam,  Wm.,  vi.  4. 

Damask,  price  of,  iv.  287. 

Danby,  Robt.,  iii.  122  ;  iv.  88. 

Dane,  John,  iv.  310. 

Danger.  *  In  his  danger,'  i.e.  in  his  debt, 
or  responsible  to  him,  iii.  38. 

Daniel, ,  vi.  35. 

Daniel, ,  of  (Cray's  Inn,  iii.  296. 

Daniel,  John,  vi.  117,  119. 

Daniel,  Thos.,  of  Rising,  Norfolk,  i.  68, 
94-95,  113,  114;  ii.  80,  82,  86,  87,  103, 
137-138,  145,  150,  172,  176,  202,  214, 
216,  217-218,    254,  note   I,   255,  256, 

265,  274,  296,  312;  iii.  53,  60,  63,  100, 
132,  226;  iv.  96. 

Daniel,  Walter,  vi.  75. 

Danvers,  Robt.,  Justice  of  the  Common 
Pleas,  ii.  162. 

Danvers,  Master  T.,  v.  314. 

Darby.     See  Derby. 

Darcort,  ,  iii.  266. 

Darcy  (Darsy),  Roger,  iii.  98;  vi.  172. 

Darell,  Sir  Edward,  vi.  102,  187. 

Dartford,  Kent,  i.  74,  99,  335-6. 

Dartmouth,  vi.  126. 

Dates,  V.  313. 

Daubeney, ,  ii.  54. 

Daubeney,  Giles,  Lord  (1486-1507),  vi. 
145,  207. 

Daubeney,  John,  i.  221,  240,  252,  253, 
254,  340;  iii.  297;  iv.  13,  27,  41  bis,  42- 
44,  64,  66,  70,  73,  79,  84,  85,  121,  123, 
127,  136  ^zj,  137,  139,  140,  142,  150, 
152,  156,  160,  161,  162,  192,  227,  230, 

266,  271,  277,  283,  299,  306,  307 ;  V. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


14,  22,  24,  25,  45,  47,  57  bisy  61,  63,  66, 

67,  97.  98,  140.  185,  302;  vi.  50,  107- 

108. 
Daubeney,  Wm.,  iii.  237,  266. 
Daune,  Cecily,  iv.  291-292. 
Daungell,  France,  ii.  7. 
Daunson,  John,  iii.  142,  284. 
Dauphin,  The,  i.  290. 
Dauson.     See  Dawson. 
Davers,  Thos.,  iv.  267-268. 

Daverse,  i,  i.  240. 

Davington,  ii.  188. 

Davy, ,  ii.  93,  94 ;  v.  78. 

Davy,  Alice,  vi.  14. 

Davy,  Elyse,  iv.  134. 

Davy,  John,  ii.  112,  209;  iii.  253-254;  iv. 

237,  238,  239;  vi.  14. 
Davy,  John,  Vicar  of  E.  Tuddenham,  iv. 

102,  103,  104,  239;  vi.  75. 
Davy,  Richard,  ii.  319. 
Davy,  Thos.,  vi.  19,  57. 
Dawbeney.     See  Daubeney. 
Dawes,  Thos.,  iv.  178. 

Dawnson, ,  v.  214. 

Dawson  (Dauson), ,  iii.  307  ;  v.  214, 

215. 
Dawson,  John,  iv.  236,  241. 
Daye,  John,  v.  174. 
Deal,  Kent,  i.  316. 
Dean,  Forest  of,  i.  250. 
*  Death  of  Arthur,  The,'  i.  323. 
Debenham,  Suffolk,  ii.  322. 
Debenham,  Gilbert,  ii.  235-236,  243,  273, 

275»  276,  307;   iii-  35»  309,  3i7,  3i9; 
iv.  9,  42-43,  62,  63,  68,  69-70,  71-72, 

151.  157,  192,  i93»  198. 

Debenham,  Gilbert,  the  younger,  knighted 
before  1465,  father  of  Elizabeth  Brews, 
i.  210,  212,  214,  230,  337 ;  iv.  43,  45, 
46,  88,  94,  192,  198,  199,  274;  V.  50. 

Debenham,  Sir  Gilbert,  son  of  the  pre- 
ceding and  uncle  of  Margery  Paston,  i. 
210,  229,  230,  340;  vi.  106,  118. 

Debretayll,  Lewis,  v.  32. 

Decies  tantum,  writ  of,  ii.  17. 

De  Coussy,  i.  123. 

Dedham,  Essex,  ii.  149,  170,  193,  194, 
195  ;  iii-  37,  56,  65,  67,  68,  94,  96,  109, 
142,  301,  302;  iv.  158;  V.  117. 

Dedham  Netherhall,  Essex,  iii.  154;  iv. 
236. 

Dedham  Overhall,  Essex,  iv.  236. 

Delaber,  Sir  Richard,  vi.  187. 

Delevere,  Sir  Richard,  vi.  10 1. 

Delgate,  Thos.,  ii.  53. 

Delvys,  Sir  John,  v.  104, 

Denbigh,  i.  192. 

Dene,  Robt.,  iii.  68. 

Dengayn  (Dyngane),  Joan,  iv.  86. 


Dengajms,  Yarmouth,  v.  94. 

Denham  (Dynham),  John,  afterwards  Lord, 

i.  182,  184,  185,  281  ;  iii.  199,  203  ;  v. 

188 ;  vi.  107,  120. 
Denmark,  King  of,  vi.  136,  138. 

Denney  (Jenney?), ,  ii.  238. 

Denny,  William,  iv.  279. 
Denschers,  iv.  228. 

Denston, ,  ii.  307,  315. 

Denton, ,  v.  320. 

Denyes,  Thos.,  i.  139-142,  204-205,  206; 

ii.  113,  150-151  bis,  163,  173-174,  176, 

191,  211,  214,  226-227,  302-304,   304- 

306,  307,  317,  318-319  ;   iii.  37,  85,  91, 

227,  272-273,  274-275,  282-283,  284-285 

bis,  286,  297  ;   murdered,  iii.  286,  288- 

289,  291-292,  293,  296. 
Denyes,   *  Mistress  Anne'  or  Agnes,  wife 

of  preceding,  i.  139,   141-142;   ii.  150, 

151,  303,   304,   305-306  bis,   307;   iii. 

273,  282,  283,  284,  287-288,  297;   iv. 

40. 

Denyse, ,  v.  181. 

Depden,  John,  iv.  150. 

Derby  (Darby),  ,  v.  252,  262,  265 ; 

vi.  43. 
Derby,  Richard,  i.  298. 
Derby,  i.  336. 

Dereham  (Dyram),  Norfolk,  iv.  155. 
Dereham,  East,  Vicar  of,  iv.  105-106. 
Dereham,  West,  ii.  215. 
Derham,  Thos.,  ii.  14. 
Deryk,  Mr.,  vi.  146. 
Deve.     See  Dive. 

Devenish,  Sir ,  vi.  187. 

Devereux  (Deverys),  Sir  J.,  v.  105. 
Devereux,  Sir  Wm.,  i.  8i. 
Devonshire,  v.  80,  113. 
Devonshire,  Thos.  Courtenay,  fifth  Earl 

of  (1422-1458),  i.  87,  98-99,  161,  165; 

ii.  148 ;  iii.  25,  29,  30,  48-50,  76. 
Devonshire,  Thos.  Courtenay,  sixth  Earl 

of  (1458-61),  iii.  268,  269. 
Devonshire,  Humphrey  Stafford,  created 

Earlof  (1469),  i.  249,  335. 
Devonshire,  Earl  of,  v.  104. 
Dewe,  John,  iv.  230. 

Dey, ,  iv.  9. 

Dey,  Thos.,  vi.  144. 
Deye,  Henry,  iii.  90,  91. 
Deye,  John,  ii.  184;  iii.  235. 
Deymayne,  Wm.,  iii.  237. 

Deyvill,  or  Devyle, ,  iii.  85,  1 12. 

Dickinson  (Dykynson),  John,  iv.  279. 
Diem  clausit  extremum,  writs  of,  ii.  16. 
Dieppe  (Depe),  i.  281 ;  ii.  6 ;  iii.  234,  306, 

307  ;  iv.  35 ;  V.  184. 
Digby,  Sir  John,  vi.  187. 
Dilhams,  ii.  43. 

271 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


Diskure.     Discover,  disclose,  iv.  187. 
Diswyr.     Doubt,  ii.  228. 
Dive,  S.  Pierre,  ii.  6. 
Dive,  S.  Sauveur,  ii.  6. 

Dixon, ,  vi.  25. 

Dixon  (Dyxon),  Mrs.,  v.  271. 

Docking,  Norfolk,  iii.  210. 

Doctor  of  Physic,  iv.  21. 

Dode,  John,  iv.  282. 

Dogdyke  (Dokdike),  Lincolnshire,  ii.  120. 

Doget  (Doket),  Master,  ii.  160. 

Doget  (Doket),  Bailiffs  son,  iv.  205. 

Doget,  John,  iv.  148. 

Doget,  Ric,  i.  335;  ii.  216,  240;  vi.  191, 

192,  195. 
Doget,  Wm.,  iv.  170. 
Doke,  John,  iii.  237. 
Doket.     See  Doget. 

Dokkyng, ,  vi.  18. 

Dokkyng,  Thos.,  vi.  207. 
Dokkynges  Manor,  v.  299,  300. 
Dok worth.     See  Duckworth. 
Dole  at  Bromholm,  iv.  228-230. 
Dolestones,  ii.  72  note  5. 
DoUay,  R.,  ii.  322-323. 

Dollys, ,  V.  103,  108,  165. 

Domfront,  Normandy,  ii.  6. 

Doncaster  (Dancastre),  Yorkshire,  ii.  296  ; 

iii.  129,  135;  V.  70. 
Donge.     A  mattress,  iii.  184;  vi.  175-176, 

178. 
Donham.     See  Dunham. 
Donmowe.     See  Dunmowe. 
Donne,  Laurence,  iii.  142. 

Donne, ,  i.  304  ;  vi.  2. 

Donnynges,  Walsham,  ii.  63. 
Donsamborowe.     See  Dunstanborough. 
Donstable.     See  Dunstable. 
*  Doolis,'  or  'Dolestones,'  q.v. 
Dordrecht,     or     Dort,     Netherlands,    vi. 

154. 
Dorking,  Surrey,  vi.  201. 

Dorlet, ,  i.  218  ;  iv.  129,  131. 

Dormand,  Edmund,  vi.  112,  119,  121. 
Dormants.     Large  beams,  ii.  281. 
Dorset,  Henry  Beaufort,  Earl  of,  afterwards 

Third  Duke  of  Somerset,  i.  161 ;  iii.  25, 

28,  29,  30,  33.     See  also  Somerset. 
Dorset,  Cecily,  Marchioness  of,  v.  290 ;  vi. 

209. 
Dorset,  Thos.  Grey,  Marquis  of,  vi.  173. 
Dortour.     Dormitory,  vi.  42. 
Dorward,  William,  ii.  275. 

Dory, ,  iii.  86,  113-114- 

Dory,  John,  Under  Sheriff  of  Norfolk,  iii. 

113- 
Dorylot,  John  de,  iii.  309. 
Douglas,  James,  Earl  of,  i.  115  ;  iv.  50. 
Douyle,  France,  ii.  7« 

272 


Dover,  i.  64,  65  ;  ii.  146,  147,  148  ;  v.  185, 

195- 

Dow,  John,  ii.  282. 

Dowbigging,  John,  iv.  28-29. 

Dowebegyng,  John,  ii.  82. 

Dowee,  Thos.,  ii.  214. 

Downes,  Sir  John,  v.  105. 

Downham  (Dounham),  Norfolk,  iii.  296. 

Downing,  John,  ii.  77  ;  vi.  70. 

Dowylday,  Nic,  ii.  215. 

Draper,  John,  ii.  54. 

Draught  Chamber.  Room  containing  a 
*  draught'  or  privy,  ii.  281. 

Dravale, ,  ii.  135. 

Drayton,  Norfolk,  i.  218-223,  226-227, 
232,  234,  245-246,  273,  284,  303-304; 
ii.  134,  137,  254  ;  iii.  42;  iv.  27,  32,  93, 
109,  129,  131,  132,  133,  135,  136,  137, 
139,  143,  144,  146,  147,  148,  156,  157, 
158,   161,   162,    164-166,  169-171,  176, 

180,  187,  195,  203,  205,  206,  208,  235, 
280-281  ;  V.  76,  77,  126,  142,  155,  166, 
188,  316,  317,  318,  321,  323,  324  ;  vi.  69. 
Descent  of  the  Manor  of,  iv.  165. 
Church  of,  iv.  31,  145,  193,  206;  vi.  2. 
Bailiff  of,  iv.  128,  170. 

Drentall,  Thos. ,  clerk,  vi.  53. 

Druell,  John,  LL.D.,  iv.   102,  103,  104, 

181,  236,  245. 
Drury,  Matt.,  ii.  307. 
Drye,  Thos.,  iv.  178. 

Dublin  (Deblyn),  i.  313 ;  iii.  203. 

Ducket,  Wm.,  i.  227. 

Duckworth  (Dokworth),  Elys,  ii.  267,  308, 
312. 

Dudley,  John  Sutton,  Fourth  Lord  (1406- 
1482),  i.  86,  94,  336  ;  iii.  25,  33. 

Dudley,  Catherine,  v.  68-69. 

Dumfries,  i.  193. 

Dunham  (Donham),  Norfolk,  v.  168. 

Dunham,  Little  (Lytyldonham),  iii.  23. 

Dunmowe  (Donemowe),  John,  iv.  150. 

Dunmowe,  Wm.,  ii.  267,  269,  308,  312. 

Dunois,  John,  Count  of,  bastard  of  Orleans, 
i.  49-50;  ii.  121- 1 24. 

Dunstable  (Donstable),  vi.  21. 

Dunstanborough  (Donsamborowe),  Nor- 
thumberland, i.  215  ;  iv.  59,  60. 

Dunston,  Norfolk,  i,  30,  140  ;  ii.  302,  303. 

Dunwich,  Suffolk,  ii.  3  ;  iv.  193. 

Durasse,  Lord,  i.  281  ;  v.  188. 

Durham,  i.  215  ;  iv.  60,  179. 

Durham  (Dereham),  Laurence  Booth, 
Bishop  of  (1457-76),  i.  169;  ii.  81  ;  iv. 
50,     See  also  Sherwood. 

Diisseldorf,  i.  288. 

Dutchland  (Germany), 

Dutchmen,  i.  27  ;  iv.  78 ;  vi.  141 . 

Dux,  Wm.,  V.  91. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Dylmyn,  Wm.  iv.  142. 
Dymock  (Dymmok),  Lady,  v.  137. 
Dymsoynty  or  Dymysent.    Metal  facing  for 
a  girdle,  vi.  203-208. 

Dyne,  ,  iii.  84. 

Dyngane,  Joan,  iv.  86. 
Dynham.     See  Denham. 

Dynne, ,  ii.  182,  193. 

Dynne,  John,  vi.  103. 
Dynne,  Wm.,  ii.  186. 

Dyott, ,  iv.  280. 

Dyram.     See  Dereham. 
Dyrward, ,  iii.  303. 

Eagle,  The,  Lincolnshire,  Priest  of,  iii. 
261. 

Earl  Soham  (Erll  Some),  Framlingham, 
Suffolk,  vi.  156,  159. 

Earlham,  Norfolk,  i.  284. 

Easewyk,  Norfolk,  ii.  70. 

Eberton,  Elizabeth,  i.  286,  287. 

Eberton,  Harry,  i.  286;  v.  206-207,  215. 

Ebesham,  Wm.,  i.  323;  v.  1-4,  63. 

Eborlyn,  Hans,  vi.  37. 

Eccles,  Kent,  iv.  309,  311, 

Eccles,  Norfolk,  ii.  135. 

Eccles,  John,  ii.  80. 

Eccles,  Robt.,  ii.  80. 

Eddingthorpe,  Norfolk,  i.  76;  ii.  33,  51, 
57,  70;  vi.  4,  190.    Rector  of,  ii.  10,  31. 

Edinburgh,  iii.  307. 

Edgecombe  (Egecum),  Sir  Ric,  vi.  118, 
127. 

Edgecombe,  Sir  Piers,  vi.  152. 

Edmonds,  John,  of  Taverham,  iv.  129, 
130. 

Edmonds,  Thos.,  iv.  43. 

Edmundes,  John,  ii.  60. 

Education  in  time  of  Paston  Letters,  i. 
318-321. 

Edward  i.,  iv.  248. 

Edward  iii.,  i.  86,  191  ;  vi.  65. 

Edward  iv.,  as  Earl  of  March,  i.  100,  135, 
148-149,  182,  184,  185-188,  194;  ii. 
297  ;  iii.  196,  197,  204,  221-222,  228, 
233>  234,  249;  as  King,  i.  194,  203, 
204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  210,  211,  213, 
215,  216,  217,  239,  243,  244,  245-246, 
246-250,  257,  259-262,  263,  266,  271, 
275,  280,  283,  288-289,  294-298,  322, 
340;  iii.  266,  267,  269,  271,  276,  277, 
278,  279,  280,  284,  286,  291,  292,  296, 
299,  300»  301,  302,  304,  306,  312,  313- 
314;  iv.  15-16,  17,  19,  20,  25,  26,  32, 
33.  34,  36,  37,  39,  52,  58  {bis),  60-61, 
ddy  78,  88,  89,  91,  93,  94,  96,  10 1,  106, 
109,  III,  113-116,  116-117  (^w),  207, 
218,  246-247,  275,  287,  296-297,  307, 
311 ;    v.  6-7,  23,  24,  28,  29,  30-33  {bis), 

VOL.  VI. S 


34,  35-36,  41,  48,  49,  50,  51,  53,  62, 63, 
69,  70-71,  80,  83,  95,  96,  97,  100,  106, 
107,  112,  131,  135,  161,  162,  170,  179, 
181,  188,  189,  195,  196,  203,  215,  220, 
221,  222,  224,  233,  236,  237,  238,  239 
{Jbis)y  240,  242,  246,  250,  260,  261,  277, 
290,  318,  324;  vi.  2,  20,  25,  28,  29; 
redeems  jewels  pledged  by  his  father, 
iii.  294-295 ;  desire  to  do  justice,  iii. 
302 ;  strongholds  in  Wales  given  up  to, 
iii.  302 ;  statutes  of,  vi.  67 ;  harbinger 
of,  when  Earl  of  March,  iii.  233. 
Edward,  Prince  of  Wales,  son  of  Henry  vi., 

i-  130,  133,  156-157,  171,  192,  193,  194, 

261  ;  11.  295-296,  297,  320 ;  iii.  13,  32,  86, 

87, 196,  234,  267,  269,  306;  iv.  51;  V.104. 
Edward,  Prince,  afterwards  Edward  V. ,  i. 

271,  322  ;  V.  179. 
Edward,  a  servant,  v.  187,  251. 
Ed  worth,  Wm.,  ii.  313. 
Egmere,  i.  205. 
Egremont,  Thos.  Percy,  Lord,  third  son  of 

Henry,  second  Earl  of  Northumberland, 

i.  131,  134,  147-148,  177;  ii.  296;  iii. 

126. 
Egyll  (I'Aigle?)  Castle,  France,  ii.  6. 
Eimond.     See  Emond. 
Elger,  John,  iii.  22. 
Elghe,  Suffolk,  ii.  11. 

Elingham, ,  ii.  139  {bis)\  vi.  36. 

Elizabeth,  Queen,  i.  26,  27. 

Elizabeth  Woodville,  Queen  of  Edward  i v. 

See  Woodville,  Elizabeth. 
Elizabeth,  Mrs.,  v.  190. 
Elizabeth  of  York,  Queen  of  Henry  vii., 

vi.  105-106,  107  {see  correction  in  vol.  i., 

page  340). 
Elkanhed,   Treasurer    of    Calais,  v.  163. 

See  also  Calais. 
Ellis,  Bartholomew,  iii.  5,  105,  106,  278  ; 

iv.  10,  102,  104,  238,  239,  243,  269. 
Ellis,  Thos.,  i.  231  ;  iii.  245  ;  iv.  139. 
Ellis,  Wm.,  iv.  70. 

Ellis  (Elys), ,  iv.  175,  176. 

Elmyse.     Enemies,  iv.  283  ;  v.  37. 
Eltham,  Kent,  i.   116,  239;  iii.  233;  iv. 

275,  276. 

Elton, ,  i.  81. 

Elwyn,  Richard,  vi.  152. 

Ely,  Bishop  of.     See  Alcock,  John  (1486- 

1500);     Bourchier,     Thos.     (1443-54); 

Grey,  Wm.  (1454-78);  Morgan,  Philip 

(1426-34). 
Ely,  Isle  of,  vi.  92. 
Elysse,  Berthelmew.     See  Ellis. 
Embracery.      A  legal  offence,  ii.  167  note 

5  ;  iii.  85. 
Erne.     Uncle,  ii.  157  note  2. 
Emery ngale,  John,  iv.  241. 

273 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Emond  (Eimond),  John,  ii.  193  ;  iii.  42. 

Emundes,  Robt.,  ii.  244. 

Entwistle  (At  Wessyll),  Sir  Bertram,  iii. 

28,  30. 
Eppeswell,  Robt.,  iii.  141. 
Ep  worth,  Lincolnshire,  ii.  71. 
Erasmus,  i.  327. 
Ernold,  Ric. ,  of  Cromer,  ii.  100. 
Erpingham  Hundred,  Norfolk,  iv.  19. 
Erpingham,  Sir  Thos.,  i.  33,  333;   ii.  13- 

I5>  16,  54. 
Esher,  Surrey,  i.  153. 
Esprygy,  Wm.,  ii.  2. 
Essay,  Normandy,  i.  56. 
Essex  county,  v.  95. 
Essex,  gentlemen  of,  vi.  122. 
'  Essex,'  Fastolf  s  place  in  Hickling,  iii. 

83  ;  V.  107,  234,  306. 

Essex, ,  iii.  268. 

Essex,  Earl  of.     See  Bourchier,  Henry. 

Essey,  Normandy,  ii.  6. 

Esson.     Essoin,  ii.  157  ;  iii.  37. 

Est,  John,  ii.  192. 

Estaple.     See  Staple. 

Estgate,  John,  iii.  255  ;  iv.  84,  106,  177, 

180. 
Estlexham.     See  Lexham,  East. 
Estodenham.     6"^^  Tuddenham,  East. 
Estwell,  Kent,  iv.  309,  310,  311. 
Etaple  (Staples),  France,  vi.  154. 
Eton,  i.  306,  319,  336 ;  vi.  5,  8. 
Eton,  Fulk,  i.  50. 

Eton,  Wm.,  iii.  230;  iv.  102,  104,  239. 
Eu,  Normandy,  ii.  6. 

Eusdale, ,  ii.  271. 

Everard,  Sir  Thos.,  Parson  of  Oxnead,  v. 

327  (pis). 
Everingham,  Henry,  i.  338. 
Everingham,  Thos.,  i.  124  ;  iii.  143. 
Everton.     See  Eberton. 
Everyton,  John,  iv.  226. 
Evreux  (Everose),  Normandy,  ii.  5. 
Ewelme,  Oxfordshire,  i.  245  ;  ii.  121  ;  v. 

Exeter,  i.  116,  165,  166;  v.  86. 

Exeter,   Bishops  of.       See   Nevill,   Geo. 

(i456-65)and  Courtenay,  Piers(i478-87). 
Exeter,  Henry  Holland,  Duke  of  (1446-73), 

i.  134,  147-148,  150,  176,  182,  183,  186, 

192,   199;  ii.   154,   296,321,   329;   iii- 

125,  126,  127,  192,  234,  267,  312. 
Exeter,  Thos.  Beaufort,  Duke  of  (1416-26), 

ii.  8,  9 ;  iii.  1 56. 
Exeter,   Anne,    Duchess    of.    Widow    of 

Henry  Holland,  v.  250. 
Exeter,  Anne,  Duchess  of.  Wife  of  John 

Holland,  third  Duke  (1443-6),  iv.   189; 

V.  69. 
Exmouth,  i.  182. 

274 


Eye,  Suffolk,  i.  231  ;  iii.  315  ;  iv.  204;  v. 
86.     Bailiff  of.     ^i?^  Bottisford. 

Fagernon,  France,  ii.  6. 

Fairchild  (Feyrechildes),  Norfolk,  iv.  32  ; 

V.  170,  188. 
Fairfax,  Guy,  i.  298  ;  v.  30,  76  ;  vi.  74. 
Fairfax,  Mr.,  v.  120. 
Fairfax,  Sir  Thos.,  vi.  152. 
Fakenham,  Norfolk,  ii.  215. 
Falaise  taken  by  Henry  v.,  ii.  5. 
*  Falce  Carte  Sproute,'  iii.  53. 
Falcon  (Fawcon),  Pursuivant,  vi.  126. 
Falconbridge,  Bastard,  i.  177,  266. 
Falyate,  John,  i.  115;  ii.  263-264. 
Falyate,  Sir  William,  iv.  308. 
Fardell.     Pack,  burden,  iv.  65. 
Farrer.     See  Ferrour. 
Farwell,  John,  iii.  155,  157. 
Paste.     '  Be  Goddis  faste,'  ii.  79. 
Faster,  John,  vi.  180. 
Fasiingong.     Shrovetide,  ii.  220. 
Fastolf,  Catherine,  iii.  96. 
Fastolf,  Edmund,  v.  1^7. 
Fastolf,  Sir  Hugh,  ii.  235;  iii.  12,  no, 

157. 
Fastolf,  John,  ii.  113. 

Fastolf,  John,  Father  of  Sir  John,  iii.  147, 
152,  154,  155. 

Fastolf,  John,  of  Cowhawe,  iii.  19,  200. 

Fastolf,  Sir  John,  i.  26,  52,  76-78,  89,  90, 
116-120,  126,  150-154,  195-203,  206, 
209,  215,  216,  217,  218,  224,  233,  234- 
238,  241,  245,  251,  254,  258,  284,  297, 
298  ;  ii.  4,  21,  29,  39,  40,  50  {bis),  51, 
80,  81,  82,  96,  loi,  107-108,  113116, 

134,  137,  149,  152,  I53»  154.  156,  160, 
170,  171,  178-179,  182,  188-189  {bis), 
190,  191-192  {bis),  193,  194,  195,  195- 
200,  203,  204,  206,  208,  209,  210,  211 
{bis),  216  {bis),  233,  234-235,  238,  250, 
252  {bis),  253  {bis),  254,  277,  279,  280, 
281,  323,  326-327,  328,  329,  333,  334, 
335  ;  iii.  2,  3,  6  {bis),  7-9  {bis),  10,  11, 
14,  15,  16,  17,  18,  19,  20-21,  22,  32, 
34,  35  ('^w),  37,  41,  42,  50,  51-52,  53- 
54  ibis),  55-60,  61-65  {i^r),  67  {bis),  68, 
69  {bis),  70-71  {bis),  72,  73-74  {bis),  76, 
77,  78,  79,  82-83,  85,  88,  91,  93  {bis), 
94,  95,  96,  97,  98,  99-100,  104,  105, 
106,  109,  no.  III,  113,  114,  115,  116, 
117,  119,  120  {bis),  121,  125,  126,  127, 
129,  132,  135,  138,  142  {bis),  193,  194 
{bis),  196,  199,  200,  201,  202,  206,  207, 
217,  218  {bis),  219  {bis),  220,  229,  231, 
238,  246  {bis),  251,  254,  271,  291,  294, 
305,  308,  309,  311,  316  ;  iv.  26,  ZO{bis), 
31,  42,  53-56,  62,  63,  66,  72,  73,  74, 
79,  81,  91,  100,  loi,  106,  109,  123,  142, 


GENERAL  INDEX 


15s.  157,  173,  174.  180,  188,  189,  208, 
254,  266,  269,  280,  281,  288,  289,  293- 
295»  296,  302,  303,  304;  V.  II,  18,  20, 
22,  30,  59,  63,  64,  72  {i>ts),  76,  77,  81, 
82,  91,  92,  94,  98,  107,  116,  117,  126, 
128,  129,  132,  134,  136,  141,  146,  170, 
172,  176,  230,  234,  301,  303,  322 ;  vi. 
55,  61-64,  75i  108;  goods  of,  iii.  166- 
174;  iv.  231-236;  will  of,  i.  242;  iii. 
117-160,160-163,  163-166;  iv.  101-104, 
III,  112,  113-116,  154,  181-185,  236- 
245,  246,  247,  268,  276,  284-286  ;  ward- 
robe of,  iii.  174-189;  college  proposed 
by,  i.  151,  195,  197,  201,  202,  216,  241, 
258,  284;  iii.  98,  no,  III,  148-149, 
153,  154,  160,  161,  164,  189-191,  193, 
202;  iv.  53-56,  73,  100,  109-110,  III, 
112-112  {dts),  114,  175,  183,  238,  240, 
244,  254,  293;  V.  82,  216;  place  in 
Southwark,  iii.  224,  233,  247  ;  condi- 
tion of,  just  before  death,  iv.  104,  238, 
240. 

Fastolf,  Mary,  Sir  John's  mother,  iii.  147, 
153-154, 155-     "^^^  o,i^o  Mortimer,  Lady. 

Fastolf,  Lady  Milicent,  Sir  John's  wife, 
i.  120,  153;  ii.  114,  115;  iii-  147.  I53. 
159,  163;  iv.  238. 

Fastolf,  Milicent,  v.  72. 

Fastolf,  Richard,  iii.  76 ;  iv.  237,  244, 
284,  285. 

Fastolf,  Thos.,  ii.  171. 

Fastolf,  Thos.,  son  of  John  Fastolf  of 
Cowhawe,  i.  203,  240;  ii.  323;  iii.  5, 
8,  14,  19-20,  21,  22,  34-35,36,  112,  133, 
142,  199-202,  278,  286,  308 ;  iv.  3,  70, 
282  ;  v.  72,  78  ;  mother  of,  iv.  3. 

Fastolf,  Wm.,  Abbot  of  Fecamp,  iii.  157. 

Fauconberg,  Thos.,  v.  109,  113. 

Fauconberg,  Wm.  Nevill,  Lord,  ii.  123  ; 
iii.  126 ;  V.  109. 

Fauconer, ,  of  London,  ii.  114- 11 5. 

Faukham,  Kent,  iv.  310. 

Fawkon.     See  Falcon. 

Fawkoner,  Thos.,  i.  42  ;  ii.  31  ;  iii.  17. 

Fazakerley, (Fitzacurley),  i.  336. 

Fecamp,  Normandy,  Abbot  of,  i.  56 ;  iii. 

157. 
Feen,  Master,  iv.  47. 
Feke,  Hodge,  ii.  86. 
Felbrigg,  Norfolk,  i.   254;   ii.    188,  221, 

288 ;  iii.  227,  248,  281,  286  ;  iv.  20,  68, 

93,  215,  216 ;  V.  64. 

Felbrigg  (Fylbryg), ,  iv.  61  ;  v.  102. 

Felbrigg,  Catherine,  Lady,  ii.   193,  224, 

250,  251  ;  iii.  12,  14,  210. 
Felbrigg,  Sir  John,  iv.  215. 
Felbrigg,  Sir  Simon,  i.  30 ;  ii.  14,  33,  34, 

46,  51. 
Feldyng,  Mr.,  v.  104. 


Felix,  V.  Pope,  ii.  96. 
Felmingham,  Norfolk,  vi.  163. 
Felmingham,  Clement.     See  also  Clement, 

Master,  iii.  193  ;  iv.  102,  103,  104,  183, 

184,  185,  230,  237,  239,  243,  244;  v. 

146. 
Felthorpe,  Parson  of,  iv.  187. 

Fendykes, ,  iii.  50. 

Fenn,  Hugh,  i.  338  ;  ii.  240 ;  iii.  73,  77, 

78,  81-82,  91,  102,  103,  133,  142,  166  ; 

iv.  12,  14,  78,  86-87,  91,  105,  179,  207, 

260,  295-296;  V.  9,  117,.  212;  vi.  190, 

191,  194. 
Fenn,  John,  iii.  258. 
Fenne,  Robt.,  vi,  167,  179. 
Fennes,  Herringby,  Norfolk,  iv.  292. 
Fenwyk,  Ric,  Rector  of  Testerton,   vi. 

113,  114. 
Fenyngley.     See  Filongley. 
Fenys  (Fenes),   Robt.,   i.  205,  259 ;  iii. 

281  ;  iv.  308,  309,  310,  311. 
Feraris(Ferers),  -^— ,  ii.  214,  215,  216, 

217  ;  iv.  61. 
Ferdinand  and  Isabella  of  Spain,  vi.  161. 
Feres,  Sir  Harry,  v.  105. 
Feres,  Sir  John,  v.  105. 
Fermer,  John,  iv.  35,  37. 
Fernwale,  William,  iv.  279. 
Ferrers,  John,  ii.  260. 

Ferrour  (Farrer,  Ferrer), ,  v.  208. 

Ferrour,  Ric,  i.  303;  v.  316,  317,  321, 

322,  323- 
Fescamp.     See  Fecamp. 
Fetis.     Good,  well-made,  ii.  112. 
Feversham,  i.  75- 
Feyrechildes.     See  Fairchild. 
Fidyon,  Roger,  Clerk,  iv.  105. 
Fiennes  (Fynys),  v.  297. 
Figs,  price  of,  iii.  126. 
Filby,  Norfolk,  ii.  67,  68  ;  iv.  105,  238  ; 

V.  117.     Parson  of,  ii.  67  ;  iv.  86. 
Fille,  John,  vi.  56,  58. 
Filongley  (Fenyngley),  Henry,  nephew  of 

Fastolf,  i.  196 ;  ii.  328 ;  iii.  6,  14,  30, 

31,  33,  67,  75,  98-99,   138,   157,  165, 

166,  192,  197,  198,  213;  V.  94. 
Filongley,  Cecily,  wife  of  Henry,  iii.  157. 
Filpot.     See  Philpot. 

Finch  (Fynch), ,  ii.  49. 

Fincham,  Norfolk,  Vicar  of,  vi.  207. 
Fincham  (Fyncheham), ,  ii.  214,  257  ; 

iii.  82,  99. 
Fincham,  John,  iii.  227. 
Fincham,  Simeon,  of  Fincham,  iii.  80. 
Fish  (Fysch),  Peter,  ii.  54. 
Fisher  (Fysscher),  Ric,  Sec.  to  the  Earl 

of  Salisbury,  iii.  96,  199. 
Fishley,  Norfolk,  v.  149. 
Fishwick,  Lancashire,  ii.  181. 

275 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Fitzalan,  Thos.,  Lord  Maltravers,  son  of 

Wm.,   Earl  of   Arundel,   iv.    217   and 

note. 
Fitzhugh,   Alice,    Lady,   i.    311-312;    iv. 

217  ;  vi.  91-92. 
Fitzhugh,    Henry,    Lord  (1386- 1424),   i. 

311  ;  ii.  8. 
Fitzlewes  (Fitzlawes),  Sir  Ric,  vi.   162, 

163. 
Fitzralph  (Fitzrawff),   John,   ii.    11  ;    iii. 

157. 
FitzraufF,  Root.,  u.    199;    iii.    153,    193, 

319;  iv.  104,  237,  239. 
Fitzwalter,    John    Ratcliff,    called    Lord 

(killed  at    the   Battle  of   Ferrybridge, 

1 461),  iii.  80,  210,  249,  267. 
Fitzwalter,  John,  Lord.     See  Radcliffe. 
Fitzwalter,  Lady,  v.  179. 
Fitzwalter,  Lord,  iv.  307. 
Fitzwalter,  Master,  v.  179,  253,  256,  258, 

259  ;  vi.  24,  31  ;  wife  of,  i.  300  ;  v.  256, 

258. 
Fitzwalter,  Rich.,  vi.  183. 
Fitzwalter  (Walter?),  Lord,  ii.  17  ;  iv.  232. 
Fitzwarine    (Fyvaren),    John     Bourchier, 

Lord,  vi.  151. 

Fitzwilliam, ,  ii.  173  ;  iii.  277,  279. 

Fitzwilliam,  Austin,  ii.  3. 

Flanders,  i.   64,  247,  288,  312,  317  ;  ii. 

104;    iv.    57,  296;    V.   218,  219,  270, 

297;  vi.  III.     5tf(?  a/j-^  Flemings. 
Fleet  raised  for  Edward  iv.,  iv.  41,  42-43, 

52,  57. 
Fleet  Prison.     See  London, 

Flegg  (Fledge),  Norfolk,  i.  283,  284 ;  ii. 

2CXD;    iii.    148  ;    iv.   47,   109,   179,  222, 

292  ;  V.  25,  188,  225  ;  vi.  33,  69. 
Flegg,  East,  iv.  46,  105  ;  v.  94. 
Flegg,  West,  iv.  46  ;  v.  94. 
Fleghalle,  Winter  ton,  ii.  51. 
Fleming,  John,  iv.  103. 
Fleming,  Master,  iv.  216. 
Flemings  molest  the  coast,  ii.  49. 
Flemings,  goods  of,  taken,  ii.  299. 
Flint  (Flynte),  Hugh,  iv.  280. 
Flodden,  i.  270. 
Florison,  Cornelius,  ii.  252. 
Flos  unguentorum^  vi.  104. 
Flourdew,  John,  Parson  of  Drayton,  iv. 

145,  187  and  note  i. 
Fogg  (Fooge),    John,    Treasurer  of   the 

Household  to  Edward  IV.,  iv.  218;  v. 
188. 

Foke, ,  ii.  158,  249. 

Foke,  John,  iv.  229. 
Foke,  Roger,  ii.  96. 
Folsham.     See  Foulsham. 
Fooge.     See  Fogg. 
Forcer.     A  chest,  ii.  92. 

276 


Fordham  (Cambs. ),  iv.  256  ;  Vicar  of,  vi. 
157. 

Forey, ,  of  France,  v.  104. 

Forncete,  Norfolk,  ii.  18,  278  ;  iii.  135. 

Fornsett,  John,  D.D.,  vi.  96. 

Forslety  a,  ii.  267. 

Forter,  John,  v.  137. 

Fortescue  (Foscwe), ,  v.  32. 

Fortescue  (Forskew),  Lord,  v.  104. 

Fortescue,  Sir  John,  Chief  Justice  of  the 
King's  Bench  (name  misprinted  by  Fenn 
•  Festux',  i.  89  ;  ii.  61-62,  205  ;  iii.  76, 
135  >  198,  226,  242,  307. 

Fortescue,  Sir  John,  of  Punsbome,  vi.  157, 
187. 

Fortescue,  Richard,  i.  281. 

Foster,  Wm.,  v.  305. 

Fotheringay  (Foodryngdre),  Northamp- 
tonshire, i.  217,  248;  iv.  117;  College 
at,  ii.  281  ;  v.  318. 

Foug^res,  capture  and  recovery  of,  i.  53-56, 
102,  104. 

Fouke, ,  of  Knapton,  vi.  31. 

Fouler,  Wm.,  iii.  72. 

Foulsham  (Folsham),  Norfolk,  ii.  318. 

Fourmigni,  battle  of,  i.  67. 

Fowler, ,  v.  85. 

Fowler,  John,  iv.  279. 

Fox,  Henry,  vi.  113-114(3^) ;  Wife  of,  vi. 
114  dt's. 

Foxhall  (Foxhole),  Suffolk,  iii.  20,  91, 
112. 

Framsden,  Suffolk,  iii.  259. 

Framlingham,  Suffolk,  seat  of  the  Duke  of 
Norfolk,  i.  203,  230,  274,  275,  276,  295; 
ii.  15,  52,  69,  145,  163,  164,  165,  166, 
185,  243,  255,  260,  261,  269,  275,  276  ; 
iii.  21,  34,  112,  144,  277,  311  ;  iv.  59, 
80,  198,  2H  ;  V.  21,  22,  149,  150,  151, 
166,  171,  172,  176. 

Framyngham, ,  ii.  217. 

France  {see  also  French),  i.  48-57,  60-61, 
67-68,  76,  77,  95,  96,  120-125,  174,  282; 
iii.  155;  iv.  51,  249;  V,  82,  206,  219, 
226,  270 ;  Admiral  of,  v.  287  ;  Ambas- 
sadors of,  V.  216. 

France,  Kings  of.  See  Charles  vil., 
Lewis  XI. 

Frances, ,  vi.  46. 

Frank,  Sir  Edward,  vi.  92. 

Frank,  Thos.,  vi.  27. 

Frankleyn.  A  large  owner  of  land,  ii.  311. 

Fraunces  (Frauncesse),  ii.  79  ;  iv.  196. 

Fraunceys, ,  iii.  3. 

Fraunk,  Robt.,  vi.  27. 
Frays,  John,  iii.  84. 
Frederick  ill..  Emperor,  v.  219. 
Freethorpe,  Norfolk,  iv.  258. 
Frekingt  ii.  211. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Fremelyngham,  Richard,  Canon  of  Ley- 
ston  Abbey,  Suffolk,  ii.  23  note  i. 

Frenay  (Frezsne)  Le  Vicomte,  France,  ii. 
5 ;  iii-  63. 

French, ,  Wife  of,  v.  312. 

French,  the,  threaten  Jersey  and  Guern- 
sey, i.  280;  ii.  321  ;  ships  of,  iii.  283; 
iv.  57;  vi.  111-112;  books  of,  v.  63; 
Frenchmen  on  the  coasts,  iv.  68 ;  v. 
I77>  178;  army  equipment,  i.  122-123. 

Frenges,  Norfolk,  Rector  of  (i 341),  ii.  4. 

Frenles,  Sir  Roger,  ii.  57. 

Fresnay,  Maine,  i.  50, 

Freston,  Suffolk,  ii.  51,  298. 

Frethorp.     See  Freethorpe. 

Frettenham,  Norfolk,  iv.  284. 

Friars,  Grey,  or  Minors.  See  under 
Norwich. 

Fritton  (Freton),  Suffolk,  iv.  71,  230,  238, 
244,  292 ;  V.  148,  241,  246 ;  vi.  48,  53, 
56  ;  Parson  of,  i.  204  ;   iii.  291. 

Fritton  (Freton),  near  Long  Stratton,  Nor- 
folk, vi.  31. 

Fronsac,  i.  125. 

Frunture^  a,  ii.  267. 

Fugr\  Figured  ?     *  Sateyn  fugr*,'  iv.  202. 

Fulchier, ,  ii.  159. 

Fulford,  Sir  Baldwin,  i.  185. 

Fulford,  Sir  Humphrey,  vi.  152. 

Fulford,  SirThos.,  v.  iii,  113. 

Fuller,  Thos.,  i.  31. 

Fuller,  Wm.,  vi.  19. 

Fulman,  John,  iii.  279. 

Fulmerston,  Ric,  iv.  198,  199. 

Fulthorp, ,  iii.  77,  103. 

Fulthorp,  Lady,  iii.  142. 

Fulthorp,  Sir  Thos.,  ii.  168. 

Furbuschour, ,  iv.  40. 

Furness,  Lancashire,  i.  313. 

Fylongley.     See  Filongley. 

Fynch, ,  ii.  49. 

Fyncheham.     See  Fincham. 

Fyndern,  Sir  Thos.,  iii.  307. 

Fynys.     See  Fiennes. 

Fynys, ,  Speaker  of  Parliament,  iv.  75. 

Fyrass,  Robt.,  iv.  12. 

Fysch,  Peter,  ii.  54. 

Fysscher.     See  Fisher. 

Fyvaryn.     See  Fitzwarine. 


Gachecroft, 


,  ii.  215. 


Gaddishill.     See  Godshill. 
Gaillon  (Gallon),  Normandy,  ii.  6. 
Galdebek  (Caudebec),  Normandy,  ii.  6. 
Gallon.     See  Gaillon. 
Gallawey,  Robt.,  iv.  230. 
Gannok,  Catherine,  ii.  53. 
Gannok,  John,  ii.  53. 
Cant,  John,  ii.  4. 


Garcy,  France,  ii.  6. 

Gardyvyands.     Knapsacks,  vi.  144. 

Garleke, ,  ii.  172. 

Garnesseye.     See  Guernsey. 

Garnet,  Thos.,  v.  32. 

Garneys, ,  ii.  56.  ^ 

Garneys,  Margery,  ii.  51. 

Garnish y  a.    A  set  of  pewter  vessels,  iv.  14. 

Garonne,  The,  i.  95,  121. 

Garneys,  Mrs.,  ii.  66. 

Garrard,  Simon,  vi.  69. 

Gascoigne,  SirWm.,  Chief  Justice  of  Eng- 
land, i.  154;  ii.  114. 

Gascony,  i.  95,  97,  105,  108,  120-125,  127, 
128. 

Gase,  Walter,  ii.  9. 

Gate,  Sir  Jeffrey,  v.  iii. 

Gateley,  i.  205. 

Gately  More,  vi.  131. 

Gatesend,  Nicholas,  ii.  265. 

Gatte,  James,  ii.  187. 

Gaudees,     Beads,  vi.  52. 

Gaunley,  Robt.,  vi.  186. 

Gaunt,  John  of,  i.  191. 

Gavaston,  Piers,  the  favourite  of  Edward  11. , 
ii.  3- 

Gawdeid.     Ornamented,  iv.  263 ;  vi.  52. 

Gawnt.     See  Ghent. 

Gaydade,  Mistress,  iv.  268. 

Gayn,  John,  iv.  94,  107. 

Gayne,  Joan,  iv.  4,  40,  61,  203. 

Gayne, ,  v.  133. 

Gayne,  Eliz.,  vi.  208. 

Gayton  (Geyton),  Norfolk,  ii.  173,  214. 

Gaywood,  Norfolk,  iv.  29. 

Geane.     See  Genoa. 

Gedding,  Suffolk,  ii.  75. 

Gees,  John,  Carmelite  Friar,  ii.  29, 

Gees,  John,  Merchant  of  Crowmer,  iL  29. 

Geffreie, ,  ii.  73. 

Gegge,  Richard,  i.  333. 

Gelderstone  (Gerlyston),  Norfolk,  ii.  56; 
iii.  256. 

*  Genealogical  History  of  the  Kings  of 
England,'  by  Francis  Sandford,  i.  25. 

Geney.     See  Jenney. 

Gemyngham.     See  Gimmingham. 

Genoa,  iv.  257. 

Gent,  John,  ii.  198. 

Genyn, ,  iv.  300. 

George,  son  of  Richard,  Duke  of  York, 
iii.  233.     See  also  Clarence. 

George,  Walter,  ii.  307. 

George,  servant  to  Wm.  Paston,  vi.  41. 

Geppeswich.     See  Ipswich. 

Gerard,  Simon,  vi.  52,  53. 

Gerberoy,  Normandy,  i.  55. 

Gerbrege,  Sir  Thos.,  iv.  253. 

Gerlyston.     See  Gelderstone. 

277 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Germany  (Dutchland),  ii.  105. 

Germyn.     See  Jermyn. 

Germyne, ,  v.  198. 

Germyngham.     See  Jerningham. 

Gesernysox  Giserings.    Battle  axes,  ii.  128. 

Gesseren.     Sleeveless  coat  of  mail,  iv.  169. 

Geyton.     See  Gayton. 

Ghent  (Gawnt),  i.  277  ;  v.  176,  297. 

Gibbon.     See  Gybon. 

Gibson,  Wm.,  vi.  27. 

Gifford,  Wm.,  i.  272;  v.  107. 

Gilberd, ,  ii.  278. 

Gilbert,  John,  Mayor  of  Norwich  (1460), 
iii.  239-240  ;  iv.  2. 

Gilder  (Gylder),  John,  iv.  279. 

Giles,  John,  iv.  35-36. 

Giles,  Karoll,  i.  152;  iii.  132. 

Gille.     A  girl,  iv.  190. 

Gilyngsat  a,  ii.  58. 

Gimmingham  (Gemyngham),  Norfolk,  i. 
28,  36,  37  ;  ii.  57,  70,  73  ;  iii.  298;  iv.  10. 

Gimmingham, ,  iv.  20. 

Ginger,  v.  119. 

Gippeswich.     See  Ipswich. 

Girlyngton,  Nich.,  iv.  292;  ▼.  94. 

Gironde,  i.  122. 

Glanville,  impalement  of,  ii.  2. 

Glanville,  Sir  Wm. ,  iv.  249. 

Gloucester,  i.  75,  81,  116;  Abbot  of,  i.  55, 
86. 

Gloucester,  Humphrey,  Duke  of.  Protec- 
tor of  England  during  minority  of 
Henry  VI.,  i.  33,  46,  47,  57,  145,  154; 
ii.  8,  14,  16,  26,  27,  35-38,  46-47;  Wife 
of.     See  Hainault,  Jacqueline  of. 

Gloucester,  Richard,  Duke  of.  See 
Richard. 

Gloucestershire,  iv.  2>^,  91. 

Glover,  Alex.,  ii.  244. 

Glover,  Robt.,  iv.  9. 

Gloys,  James,  Priest,  i.  90,  226-227,  279- 
280,  287  ;  ii.  88,  92-94,  157,  219-223, 
223-225  {bis),  228,  248,  265  ;  iii.  45-46 
{bis),  298,310-311;  iv.  74,  121,  159,  169, 
170,  226,  227,  256,  274,  294,  299;  v.  26, 
39,  66,  103, 115,  146,  147,  153,  173,  197, 
212,  213,  223,  225  ;  vi.  175,  176. 

Gnateshale.     See  Knatysale. 

Goche  (Gough?),  Margaret,  iii.  87. 

God,  James,  i.  334- 

Godard,  Dr.,  iii.  228. 

Godehreds, ,  iv.  179. 

Godfrey,  Mr. ,  v.  142. 

Godmerston,  ,  v.  100. 

Godnoston,  Jane,  v.  180. 

Godshill  (Gaddishill),  Isle  of  Wight,  i. 
316;  vi.  160. 

Gogyne,  Wm.,  vi.  12 1. 

Golbeter,  Jas.,  iv.  130. 

278 


Gold,  Pipes  of,  ii.  45. 

Goldsmyth,  Nich.,  ii.  267. 

Goldwell,  Jas.,  Bishop  of  Norwich  (1472- 

99),  V.  221,  227,  305;  vi.  3,  6,  9-10, 13. 
Goldwell,  Nich.,  vi.  3. 
Goneld  (Gunnold),  Henry,  ii.  87,  130,  131, 

292,  293  ;  vi.  181. 
Gonnore.     See  Gunnor, 
Goodfellow,  Robin,  vi.  131. 
Goodknape,  Thos.,  v.  306. 
Goodrede,  Wm.,  v.  75. 
Goodwein  (Goodwyn),  Wm.,  ii.  214,  244. 

Goold, ,  ii.  254. 

Goos,  Sir  J.,  V.  201. 
Gordon,  Robt.,  iv.  29. 

Gorge  (Gorges), ,  iv.  60. 

Gorge,  Walter,  iv.  22. 

Gorleston,  Yarmouth,  iv.  238,  244,  284, 

292 ;  V.  107,  234. 
Gorney.     See  Gumey. 
Goshawk  desired  by  John  Paston,  v.  152, 

154,  157,  165. 
Gosloth  (?)  Alice,  ii.  23  note  i. 
Goth.     See  Gough. 
Gough  (Goth),  Matthew,  i.  49-50,  67-68, 

72,  73 ;  ii.  40,  147,  157  ;  iii.  248. 
Gough.     See  also  Goche. 
Gournay.     See  Gurney. 
Gower,  James,  v.  105. 
Gower,  Thos.,  ii.  40;  iii.  157. 
Gowns,  iv.  59. 

'  Grace  de  Dieu,'  a  ship,  i.  109  ;  iv.  57. 
Grame,  Mrs.,  v.  253. 
Grandson,  i.  299. 
Granere,  Wm.,  Master  of  Works  at  Caister, 

ii.  40. 
Grantham,  Lincoln,  v.  70. 
Grave,  John,  ii.  67. 
Gray,  Henry,  ii.  275. 
Gray,  Sir  John,  ii.  8  ;  vi.  118. 
Gray,  Sir  Ralph,  iii.  268 ;  iv.  60. 
Gray  (Grey),  Sir  Thos.,  v.  105,  274. 
*  Great  Book,  The,'  i.  323 ;  v.  i,  3. 
Great  Seal,  v.  196. 
Green,  Dr.,  i.  165. 

Greenfield  (Grenefeld), ,  iii.  123. 

Greenfield,  John,  iii.  298,  note  2. 
Greenfield,  John,  Sergeant-at-law,  iv.  88, 

105,  218. 
Green  wax,  ii.  160. 
Greenwich,!.  70,  158;    iii.  14,  233,  306, 

314  ;  iv.  297. 
Grefyth,  Sir  Walter,  of  Lancaster,  vi.  15 1. 
Gregory,  a  servant  of  Edmund  Paston,  v. 

231-232. 

Gregory, ,  Sir,  vi.  102. 

Grenacre  (Greneakyr),  Ralf,  iv.  126. 

Grene, ,  iv.  70. 

Grene,  Dr.,  iii.  48. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Grene,  John,  ii.  80. 

Grene,  Sir  Robt.,  v.  105,  185. 

Grene,  Thos.,  ii.   145,  160,  170;  iii.  114, 

298;  iv.  12,  79,  138,  222,  257;  V.  94, 

274. 
Grene,  Wm.,  iv.  292. 
Grenefeld.     See  Greenfield. 
Grenesheve,  Christopher,  ii.  267,  308. 
Grenneville,  ii.  7. 
Gresham,    Norfolk,  i.   39,   41-44,   91-92, 

233.  254,  256  ;  ii.  30,  83,  88,  94,  95,  96, 

99,    100,    113,   127-134,  157,  161,  166- 

167,  170,  187,  214,  219,  228,  287  ;  iv. 

250*  251;    V.  64,   112,    116,   127,   141, 

160,  194,  196,  197.     Church  of,  iii.  120, 
^  13s ;  vi.  48. 
Gresham,  ,  the   London  carrier,  iv. 

230. 
Gresham,  James,  i.  76,  172  ;  ii.  53,  61-62, 

83-84,  87,  88,  92,  93,  148,  156-157,  158, 

159  {bis\  160-162,    168,    180-182,    183, 

186,  224,  230,  244,  248-249,  325;   iii. 

22,  48-50,  78-79,  103,  107-109,  280  ;  iv. 

15,  36,  65,  76-78,  78-79,  88-89,  92,  93. 

126,  171,  175,  223,  229,  280-282,  283  ; 

V.  6,  69,  96,  97,  116,  125,  139,  141 J  vi. 

86,  %T. 
Gresham,  John,  iv.  232. 
Gresham,  Thos.,  iv.  71. 
Gressenhall,  Norfolk,  ii.  159  ;  iv.  22. 
Gresynges.     Steps,  vi.  51. 
Gretkyn,  Mrs.,  v.  176. 
Greve,  Wm.,  vi.  146-147. 
Grey  or  Minor  Friars.    See  underliioxyiich.. 

Grey, ,  iii.  290. 

Grey,   Edmund,    Lord    of    Hastings  and 

Ruthin,  i.   80,   156  ;   ii.  325,  327  ;    iii. 

1-2,  41,  198;  iv.  310. 
Grey,  Henry,  ii.  39,  185,  308;   iii.  i  ;   iv. 

172. 
Grey,  Sir  Harry,  v.  105;  vi.  155-156. 
Grey,  John,  iv.  266,  269  ;  v.  10. 
Grey,  Master,  i.  164 ;  iii.  36. 
Grey,  Lord  Richard,  i.  322-323. 
Grey,  Robert,  of  Warham,  i.  205. 
Grey,  Sir  Thos.,  vi.  187. 
Grey,  Wm.,  vi.  35.  ^   > 

Grey,  Wm.,  Bishop  of  Ely  (1454-78),  ii./ 

38  ;  iii.  2,  292  ;  iv.  305  ;  v.  85,  202. 
Grey,  Wm.,  of  Martyn,  v.  142. 

Greyve, ,  iv.  290. 

Griffith  (Gryphet), ,  Usher  of  the  Hall 

to  Henry  vi.,  iii.  30. 
Griffith  Suoh  (?),  iii.  92. 
Grigge,  Robert,  i.  331,  332. 
Grigges,  Andrew,  iii.  93. 
Grigges,  John,  iii.  237. 
Grigges,  T.,  vi.  115-116. 
Grimesby,  Sir  Wm.,  v.  105. 


Grimston,  Edward,  iii.  93,  94. 

Grinstead,  East,  ii.  61. 

Groby,  France,  ii.  7. 

Grocer,  Philip,  iii.  142. 

Grome,  Nich.,  ii.  217. 

Groos,  John,  ii.  261  ;  iii.  227. 

Groos,  Oliver,  ii.  14,  46,  51. 

Gros,  John,  ii.  288,  289 ;  iv.  3,      Wife  of, 

ii.  288. 
Grust,  Wm.,  i.  81. 
Grymesby.     See  Grimesby. 
Grymston.  Thos.,  iv.  279. 
Gryphet.     See  Griffith. 
Grys,  John,  of  Wighton,  i.  32,  33  ;   ii.  12, 

13- 
Grys,  Thomelin,  ii.  81. 
Gryseacresse,  Mistress,  v.  69. 
Gueldres,  Mary  of,  i.  193. 
Guernsey,  i.  147,  182  ;  ii.  78-79, 104,  321  ; 

iv.  32. 
Guienne,  i.  45,  61,  95,  97,  105,  120,  124, 

130,  132;  ii.  121,  126,  291  ;   iii.  60,  61, 

64,  92,  155: 
Guincamp  (Gingham),  vi.  126. 
Guisnes  (Guynes),  i.   183,  184,   185  ;    iii. 

205,  234,  307;  V.  204,  206,  253,  256, 

257 ;  vi.  83. 
Gundy,  France,  ii.  6. 
Gunnold.     See  Goneld. 
Gunnor  (Gonnore), ,  ii.  112,  130,  220- 

223,  230  ;  iii.  107 ;  iv.  10,  40,  188. 
Gunnor,  Simon,  iii.  133,  227. 
Gunnor,  Wm.,  iii.  157. 
Gunton,  Norfolk,  iv.  302. 
Gunton,  Ralph,  of  Norfolk,  ii.  29. 
Gurnay  (Gornay), ,  ii.  189,  279,  285  ; 

iii.  97,  131  ;  vi.  58,  59. 
Gurney,  Margaret,  ii.  295. 
Gurney,  Thos.,  ii.  145,  260;   iii.  227;    iv. 

3,  66,  67. 
Gurney  (Gornay),  Wm.,   i.    272-273;    v. 

133,  138,  143,  151,  161,  285,  287. 
Guton,  Brandiston,  Norfolk,  i.  273,  274 ; 

iii.   247;    iv.    109,  125,  130,  256,  265, 

266,  289,  292 ;  V.  10,  25,  85,  128,   142, 

144,  234. 
Guy  of  Warwick,  i.  323  ;  vi.  65. 
Guy  and  Colbrande,  i.  323  ;  vi.  66. 
Guybon,  Gregory,  ii.  2i6\bis). 
Guynes.     See  Guisnes. 
Gybon  (Guybon), ,  of  Debenham,  ii. 

322,  323- 
Gygges,  John,  vi.  14. 

Gylmyn, ,  ii.  293;  iv.  217. 

Gylys.     See  Giles. 

Gymmyngham.     See  Gimmingham. 

Gyne  (Gyney),  John  of  Dilham,  i.  31 ;  ii. 

40-41,  62-63. 
Gynne,  Robt.,ii.  58;  vi.  189. 

279 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Gyns,  or  Gynnis  Close,  in  Paston,  ii.  73  ; 

V.  209. 
Gypcer.     A  purse  or  bag,  iii.  290. 
Gyrdyng,  John,  iv.  236,  241,  284. 

H.  B.,  iii.  214. 

Habeland    (Hadlounde,    or     Haveland), 

Bradwell,   Suffolk,   iv.    109,   244,    289, 

292 ;  V.  98,  107,  148,  189,  234. 
Haborjoun^   or  Harburyone.      A  coat  of 

mail,  ii.  215,  322 ;  iii.  186. 
Hache,  Wm.,  ii.  283,  284. 
Hadle,  iii.  97. 
Hadleigh,  Essex,  vi.  182. 
Hadley,  Suffolk,  ii.  323. 
Hadlounde.     See  Habeland. 
Hadynet,  John,  iv.  295. 
Hagreston,  ,  Groom    of  the   King's 

Chamber,  iii.  121. 
Hainault,  Jacqueline  of,  wife  of  Humphrey, 

Duke  of  Gloucester,  ii.  26,  27. 
Haineford.     See  Hayneford. 
Hakon,  Thos.,  Parson  of  Felthorp,  iv.  180, 

187. 
Halbroke,  Richard,  iv.  280. 
Hale.     See  Holm  Hale. 
HaleSy  or  Alys.     Pavilions,  vi.  144. 
.Hales  (Halse),  John,  Bishop  of  Coventry 

and  Lichfield,  i.  298,  336 ;  vi.  104. 
Halesworth   ( Hallysworthe),    Suffolk,   iv. 

152. 
Halfnothe  (Halsnoth),  John,  iv.  259 ;   v. 

192,  200. 
Hall,  Sir  Edmund,  iv.  286. 
Hall,  Robt.,  iv.  127. 

Halman  (Halleman), ,  ii.  158,  159. 

Halman,  Henry,  ii.  113,  172,227  ;  iv.  272  ; 

V.  58,  106,  130,  182. 
Halman,  Jas.,  ii.  131 ;  iv.  306;  vi.  177. 
Halman,  John,  ii.  31. 
Halman,  Wm.,  vi.  20. 
Halsnoth.     See  Halfnothe. 
Haltoft,  Gilbert,  Baron  of  the  Exchequer, 

iii.  91. 

Haltoft, ,  iii.  85. 

Halton,  Kent,  iv.  309. 
Halvergates,  Norfolk,  v.  299. 
Halyn,  the  King's  porter,  iii.  28. 
Hambie  (Hommbe),  Normandy,  ii.  7. 
Hammes  (Hampnes),  Calais,  iii.  3121  vi. 

2,83. 
Hammond,  Master,  ii.  28. 
Hamond,  Simon,  ii.  214. 
Hampden,    Sir    Edmund,    iii.    307  ;    v. 

104. 
Hampton.     See  Southampton. 
'  Hankyn,  our  dog,'  v.  212. 
Hanmer,  John  and  Wm. ,  iv.  96. 
Hansard,  Sir  Thos.,  vi.  187. 

280 


Hanson  (Hansson),  Henry,  ii.  252  ;  iii. 
no.  III. 

Hanson  (Hans wan,  or  Honson),  Chris- 
topher, iii.  136,  233-234,  246,  249,  269, 
302,305;  iv.  49,  50,  51,  235. 

Hanyngton,  Chr.,  iv.  218,  221. 

Happisburgh,  Norfolk,  ii.  135. 

Harbard.     See  Herbert. 

Harburyone.     See  Haborjoun. 

Harcourt, ,  iv.  304  ;  v.  66,  69. 

Harcourt,  Lady,  i.  320 ;  vi.  14. 

Harcourt,  Sir  Ric,  v.  149,  178. 

Harcourt,  Sir  Robt.,  ii.  89;  v.  126;  vi. 

151- 
Hardwyn,  George,  iv.  279. 
Harecourt,  France,  i.  56 ;  ii.  7. 
Harfleur  (Arfleet),  Normandy,  i.   59 ;   ii. 

47 ;  iii.  62. 
Haringby.     See  Herringby. 
Harington,  John,  Lord  (1405-18),  ii.  8. 
Harington,  Lady  (1473),  v.  185. 
Harington,  Thos.  Grey,  Lord,  son  of  first 

Marquis  of  Dorset,  vi.  151. 

Harington, ,  iii.  72. 

Harington,  Sir  James,  vi.  187. 

Harington,  Sir  Robt.,  v.  105. 

Harington,  Sir  Thos.,  iii.  199. 

Harlech  Castle,  i.  192. 

Harlesdon,  Robt.,  v.  24. 

Harleston,  Norfolk,  i.  220,  226,  231  ;  iii. 

42. 
Harleston,  ,  Under  Steward  of  the 

Duchy  of  Lancaster,  iv.  143,  144,  161, 

163,  169,  205. 
Harley,  Sir  John,  v.  105. 
Harling,  East,  Norfolk,  Parson  of,  ii.  1 7 1. 
Harling,  Sir  Robt.,  iii.  157,  168  ;  Daughter 

of,  iii.  94. 
Harman  (Herman),  Waryn,  ii.   135,  244, 

245,  246,  247,  255-256,  266,  278. 
Harmerer,  Robt.,  iii.  294. 
Harness^  Hartleys.     Armour,  iv.  142. 
Harneys,  Reynold,  iv.  294. 

Harper  (Harpor), ,  iii.  33  ;  iv.  61. 

Harple.     See  Wolman. 

Harpour, ,  Yeoman  of  the  Crown,  iii. 

30- 
Harry,  Lord  (?),  iii.  267. 
Harsset,  or  Hasset.     See  Blennerhasset. 
Hart.     See  Lyhart. 
Hart,  Thos.,  iv.  284. 
Hartford,  Thos.,  vi.  134. 
Hartwelbury.     See  Horwellbury. 
Harvey,  Edward,  vi.  209. 
Harvey  (Hervey),  Geo.,  vi.  209. 
Harvey,  John,  vi.  209. 
Harvey,  Thos.,  vi.  209. 
Harward,  Wm.,  vi.  89. 
Haryngby.     See  Herringby. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Haryson  (Henrickson),  Lumen,  vi.  132. 
Hasard,  Wm.,  ii.  96,  loi,  130. 
Hasingham,  Norfolk,  Parson  of,  ii.  269, 

312. 
Hasslake,  Margaret,  vi.  205. 

Hastings, ,  iv.  279 ;  v.  264. 

Hastings,  Ann,  wife  of  John,  ii.  84. 
Hastings,  Lady  Cath.,  wife  of  Wm.,  Lord, 

V.  290. 
Hastings(Hastynges),  John,iv.  105;  v.  248. 
Hastings,  Lord  of.     See  Grey,  Edmund. 
Hastings,    Lady   Margery,   widow  of  Sir 

Edward,  Lord  Hastings,   ii.  88,  277 ; 

iii.  12. 
Hastings,  Sir  Ralph,  v.  204,  205-206. 
Hastings,  Sir  Rich. ,  v.  105. 
Hastings,  Wm.,  son  of  Sir  Leonard,  iii. 

138,  139,  199,  249. 
Hastings,  Sir  Wm.,  iii.  267. 
Hastings,  Wm.,    Lord    (1461-83),    Lord 

Chamberlain  to  Edward  IV.,  i.  55,  215, 

270,  275,  276,  289  ;  iv.  50,  61,  300 ;  V. 

Ill,  137,  148,  149,   151,  152,  155,  184, 

194-195,  204,  205,  206,  215,  253,  256, 

257  {bis)y  258,  270,  272 ;  vi.  20,  28,  30, 

32,  60,  72. 
Hatefeld,  ii.  91. 
HatteclifF.     See  Attecliff. 
Hattecliff,  Isabel,  Wife  of  Wm. ,  vi.  209. 
HatteclifF,  Wm.,  vi.  209. 
Haukeney.     A  hackney  or  saddle-horse, 

iv.  38. 
Hault.     See  Haute. 
Hautayne  (Hawteyn),  Alice,  ii.  3. 
Hautayne,  Claricia,  ii.  53-55. 
Hautayne,  Haymundus,  ii.  53,  54. 
Hautayne,    Friar  John,  i.  38  ;   ii.  52-55, 

60-61,  74,  83,   100,  109,   147,  156-157, 

158;  vi.  19.     See  also  h^MXMi^, 
Hautayne,  Robt.,  ii.  54,  79. 
Hautayne,  Tiphania,  ii.  55. 

Haute  (Hawt), ,  iv.  61. 

Haute,  Anne,  i.  239-240,  245,  263,  268- 

270,  304;  iv.  300;   v.  II  and  note  i, 

15,  18,  19,  61,  69,  III,  115,  135,  181, 

188,  198,  223,  270,  293,  294. 
Haute,  John  or  Jakys,  iii.  307  ;  v.  28,  31. 
Haute,  Master,  v.  23. 
Haute,  Rich.,  i.  269  ;  v.  115,  188. 
Haute  (Hawte),  Sir  Rich.,  vj^  in. 
Havelound.     See'  Habeland. 
Haverland    (Herlonde),    John,    Prior    of 

Norwich,  vi.  96. 
Haward.     See  Howard. 
Hawe,  Rich.,  iv.  178. 
Hawes,  Mr.,  vi.  119. 
Hawhunte,  ii.  55* 
Hawk.     See  Goshawk. 
Hawte.    See  Haute. 


Hawys.     See  Howys. 

Hawys,  Thos.,  ii.  88. 

Haxby,  Robt.,ii.  78. 

Hay's  Wife,  ii.  102. 

Haylysden.     See  Hellesden. 

Haynford  (Heynesford,  etc.),  Norfolk,  i. 

241  ;  ii.    188  ;   iv.    109,  256,  289,  290, 

292  ;  V.  10,  25,  107. 
Haywards,  ii.  244. 
Heathfield,  i.  74. 
Heberd,  Rich.  ii.  95. 
Hedermoder.     Hugger-mugger,  iii.  290. 
Hederset.     See  Hetherset. 
H^din  (Hedynge),  in  Artois,  v.  287. 
Hedingham   (Heveningham  or    Henyng- 

ham),  Essex,  i.   315;  v.   95;  vi.    112, 

121,  122,  123,  128,  129,  130,  136,  138, 

142,  143,  144,  151,  165,  181,  186. 
Heestowe,  Edw.,  vi.  121. 
Hegon.     A  man  of  Lord  Moleyns,  ii.  131, 

132. 
Heigham  (Hygham),  Norwich,  iv.  79. 
Heigham  Potter,  vi.  190,  195. 
Helle.     To  cover,  or  put  a  top  on,  ii.  243. 
Hellesden  (Haylysdon,  etc.),  Norfolk,  i. 

200,  218-224,  226,  227,  229,  231,  232, 

234,  240,  245-246,  261,  273,  284,  303- 
304,  322  ;  ii.  107,  134,  137,  152,  171, 
191,  279,  281  ;  iii.  114,  117,  135,  190, 
239,  240,  297  ;  iv.  27,  55,  79,  81,  86, 
92,  109,  124,  130,  131,  137,  138,  140, 
141,  142,  143,  144,  146,  147,  148,  157, 
158,  160,  161,  162,  165,  170,  171,  180, 
186,  197  {bis),  204,  205,  206,  220,  234, 

235,  282;  V.  12-13,  3i»  77»  117,  142, 
155,  166,  188,  316,  317,  318,  321,  323, 
324  ;  vi.  69.  Attack  on,  iv.  201-204  ; 
V.  II,  31-32.  Title  to,  iv.  130,  195. 
Parson  of,  iii.  298  ;  iv.  282.  See  Hert, 
Thos. 

Hellesdon,  John,  i.  223. 

Helloughton,  ii.  217. 

Hellowe,  iv.  292. 

Hemnales,  Hempnales,  Cotton,  Suffolk, 
iv.  109,  200,  290,  292  ;  vi.  105. 

Hempton,  Norfolk,  ii.  215. 

Hempton  Abbey,  vi.  114  {bis). 

Hengham.     See  Hingham. 

Heningham.     See  Hedingham. 

Henmar,  Wm.,  v.  104. 

Hennebon,  Brittany,  vi.  126. 

Hennesby,  Norfolk,  vi.  190,  193. 

Henry  iv.,  iii.  59,  61,  148,  149. 

Henry  v.,  i.  59,  86,  119;  ii.  9;  iii.  59, 
61, 148,  149,  204.  Conquests  in  France, 
ii.  5.     His  siege  of  Rouen,  ii.  8. 

Henry  VI.,  i.  45,  53,  70-71,  79,  80,  82, 
83,  84,  86,  87,  89,  94,  96-102,  iio-iii, 
112,  125,  126,  129,  133.  142,  I43-I44» 

281 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


156-162,  164-165,  166-167,  168,  169, 
170-172,  174,  176,  177,  178,  180,  181, 
186,  188,  189,  190,  191-192,  194,  203, 
205,  213,  257,  258,  259,  260,  261,  262, 
277;  ii.  113,  171-172,  174-175.  177  (^^J). 
181,  295-296,  297 ;  iii.  32,  43,  44,  59- 
60,  61,  74,  75,  86,  87,  92, 103,  108,  III, 
118,  125,  126,  127,  139,  156,  205,  222- 
223,  232,  233,  267,  269,  286,  307  ;  iv. 
32,  35.  51,  53;  V.  155.  Education  of, 
ii.  34-38.  Informed  of  the  state  of 
county  Norfolk,  ii.  258.  *  Borroweth 
his  expense  for  Christmas,'  ii.  205. 
Recovery  from  illness,  iii.  13-14. 
Memorial  addressed  to,  before  battle  of 
St.  Albans,  iii.  23-24.  Presence  of,  at 
Battle  of  St.  Albans,  iii.  25-29,  29-30. 
Invasion  of  Scotland  expected  of,  iii.  87. 
Fastolf  s  claims  against,  iii.  55-60.  Money 
lent  to,  iii.  59.  Flight  to  Scotland  after 
Towton,  iii.  267.  Attempts  to  regain 
Crown,  iv.  32,  Restored  to  Throne,  v. 
95-96.  Uncles  of,  iii.  1 1 1 .  Almoner  of, 
iii.  13. 

Henry  vii.  (called  '  Henry  Tydder '  before 
his  accession  by  Richard  in.),  i.  311- 
317  ;  vi.  81-84.  Landing  in  England, 
vi.  85.  After  accession,  vi.  89-90,  93, 
95.  99.  100,  loi.  III,  118,  119,  120, 
121,  122  {dis),  125-127,  129,  136-7,  144, 
152,  161,  172,  174. 

Henry,  second  son  of  Henry  vii.,  after- 
wards Henry  viii.,  created  Duke  of 
York.     See  York,  Henry,  Duke  of. 

Hensted,  Edw.,  v.  282. 

Henyngham.     See  Heveningham. 

Herberd,  Julian,  i.  33,  34-36,  331-334  ;  ii- 
28. 

Herbert  (Harbard),  Rich.,  i.  249;  iii.  246. 

Herbert,  Sir  Wm.,  i.  174;  iii.  118;  Earl 
of  Pembroke  (1468-9),  i.  249  ;  iv.  305. 

Herbynger,  John,  ii.  187. 

Herden,  (?),  iv,  42. 

Hereford,  i.  116,  173,  174;  iii.  118,  233. 

Hereford,  Reginald  Butler,  Bishop  of 
(1450-3),  i.  96. 

Hereford,  John  [Stanbury],  Bishop  of 
(1454-74).  i.  298. 

Herington,  John,  iii.  167. 

Herlyng,  John,  of  Basyngham,  iv.  290. 

Herlyngflet.     See  Herringfleet. 

Herman.     See  Harman. 

Herman,  Walter,  ii.  60  ;  iv.  10,  70.  . 

Hermer,  Rich.,  iv.  228,  229. 

Heme,  Wm.,  iv.  146. 

Herod  in  Corpus  Christi  play,  v.  321. 

Heron,  Roger,  vi.  166. 

Herringby  (Haryngby),  Norfolk,  iii.  78  ; 
iv.  292  ;  V.  76  ;  vi.  108. 

282 


Herringfleet  (Herlyngflet),  St.  Olave's, 
Prior  of,  ii.  4. 

Herringflete,  Suffolk,  ii.  235. 

Herry,  Capt.,  of  Bristol,  v.  104. 

Hert,  John,  iv.  178. 

Hert,  Nich.,  iii.  259. 

Hert,  Robt.,  iv.  104,  239,  242,  243. 

Hert,  Thos.,  Parson  of  Hellesden,  ii.  189; 
iv.  3,  138  and  note  ;  vi.  69. 

Hert,  Thos.,  of  Caister,  iv.  237,  240,  242. 

Hertford,  i.  165  ;  iii.  32,  50 ;  vi.  127,  128. 

Hertfordshire,  iv.  250. 

Hervy,  Harry,  vi.  5,  57. 

Hervy,  Nich. ,  Recorder  of  Bristol,  v.  104 
note  3  ;  vi.  5. 

Herward, ,  iv.  94. 

Hethersct  (Hederset),  Norfolk,  ii.  198  ; 
iii.  36. 

Heveningham.     See  Henyngham. 

Heveningham,  Suffolk,  ii.  237;  iv.  Ii. 

Heveningham  (Henyngham),  Sir  John, 
ii.  46,  237,  239,  260,  286,  287. 

Heveningham,  John,  afterwards  Sir  John, 
son  of  the  preceding,  i.  250-251 ;  ii.  288- 
289,  308;  iii.  222;  iv.  9,  lo-ii,  152, 
205  ;  V.  36,  50,  52. 

Heveningham  (Eliz.  ?),  widow  of  Sir  John, 
iii.  14. 

Heverlonde,  John,  Prior  of  Norwich,  vi. 
96. 

Heydon,  Henry,  afterwards  Sir  Henry, 
son  of  John  Heydon  of  Baconsthorpe, 
i.  273,  274,  312  ;  iv.  67  ;  v.  138,  142, 
143,  264,  324 ;  vi.  30,  55,  99,  100,  no, 
119, 143,  148-149  (3iV),  150,  158.  Anne, 
second  daughter  of  Sir  Geoffrey  Boleyn, 
wife  of,  iv.  276. 

Heydon,  John,  vi.  144. 

Heydon,  John,  of  Baconsthorpe,  Lawyer 
of  Norwich,  i.  42,  84,  86,  89-91,  94, 
112,  189,  207,  211,  338;  ii.  74,  86,  96, 
99,  100,  112,  133,  137,  140,  145,  146, 
156,  166,  167,  173,  174,  175,  176,  177, 
179,  180,  181,  182,  183,  189,  191,  192, 
195.  196,  198,  202  note,  203,  206,  207- 
208,  209  (<5w),  210,  211,  212,  214-215, 
216,  217,  218,  224,  225,  227,  230,  233, 
235,  238-239,  249,  252  [bis),  255,  259, 
275,  277  ;  iii.  45-46  {bis),  47,  95,  105, 
121,  133,  195,  196,  222,  225,  226,  227, 
228,  242,  245,  248,  255,  274,  278,  286, 
292,  296,  297  ;  iv.  15,  20,  104,  154, 
156,  160,  223,  238,  239  ;  V.  89,  90,  290. 

Heydon,  Norfolk,  ii.  61  ;  vi.  30. 

Heydon,  Young,  v.  178. 

Heydon's,  The,  Family  of,  v.  178. 

Heylesden.     See  Hellesden. 

Heylisdon,  John,  iv.  165.  Alice,  daughter 
of,  iv.  165. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Heylok,  Walter,  ii.  65. 

Heyne,     To  heighten,  or  raise,  iv.  130. 

Heynesford.     See  Haynford. 

Hey  the,  Robt.,  v.  169  ;  vi.  53. 

Hibernicus  ('  W.  W.'?),  iii.  213,  214,  229. 

Hickling,  Norfolk,  ii.  134,  212,  239,  253 
[bis)',  iii.  65,  82,  83,  94;  V.  136;  vi. 
55-  A  Bailly  of,  ii.  192.  Netherhall 
in,  iii.  154.  Prior  and  Priory  of,  ii.  80- 
82,  I93>  199,  250,  253-254  ;  iii.  99,  154  ; 
V.  107. 

Hide,  Mrs.,  vi.  206. 

Higgens,  Eliz.,  v.  113,  122. 

Higham,  ,  ii.  178  ;  v.  89.      Widow 

of,  ii.  178,  254. 

Higham,  Thos.,  iii.  68. 

Hill  (Hylle),  John,  iv.  280. 

Hill,  Robt.,  ii.  278,  279,  285. 

Hillingworth, ,  iii.  270. 

Hingham  (Hengham),  Norfolk,  ii.  271. 

*  History  of  Henry  vii.,'  by  Francis 
Bacon,  i.  314. 

Hith.     See  Hythe. 

Hobard  (Hubbard),  Jas.,  afterwards 
Attorney  Gen.  to  Henry  vii.,  i.  297, 
298;  V.  19,  42,  52,  311;  vi.  10,  104, 
169. 

Hobbes'  Wife,  ii.  216. 

Hobbis,  John,  iv.  164,  279 ;  vi.  19. 

Hobbyllers.     Light  Horsemen,  vi  89-90. 

Hoberd, ,  ii.  173. 

Hockwold,  Norfolk,  iv.  39. 

Hodson  (Hodessone  or  Hoddeson),  Mar- 
garet, iii.  185,  187. 

Hodson,  Thos.,  iii.  157. 

Hody,  Sir  John,  Chief  Justice  of  the  King's 
Bench,  ii.  4,  162. 

Hody, ,  iii.  226. 

Hogan, ,  iv.  151. 

Hogan,  the  Prophet,  v.  178,  179,  181, 188. 

Hogan,  Thos.,  vi.  134. 

Hogan  (Ogan  or  Huggan),  Wm.,  i.  216, 
280,  281  ;  iii.  309  ;  iv.  88,  1 16,  117  ;  v. 
120,  121. 

Hoggys.     Lambs,  iv.  203. 

Hokewold.     See  Hockwold. 

Holand,  Robert,  vi.  16. 

Holham  Rents,  Norfolk,  v.  299. 

Holkham's  Tenement,  v.  299  ;  vi.  63,  64. 

Holkham,  Edmund,  vi.  63. 

Holkham,  Margaret,  vi.  63. 

Holland,  ii.  104;  vi.  141. 

Hollar,  Mr.  Robt.,  vi.  17. 

Holle,  Sir  Wm.,  Priest,  i.  305  ;  vi.  9,  10. 

Holler,  Thos.,  ii.  311  ;  iii.  223-224,  237; 
iv.  26 ;  Son  of,  v.  173,  174,  175. 

Hollewelebury.     See  Horwellbury. 

Hollewellhalle,  vi.  192,  195. 

Hollwellhawe,  East  Tuddenham,  vi.  75. 


Holm  Hale,  Norfolk,  ii.  248,  279 
Holman,  Edward,  iv.  280. 
Holme.     See  Hulme. 
Holme  Hall,  Filby,  vi.  171. 

Holme, ,  vi.  27. 

Holme,  Henry,  ii.  195. 

Holme,  John,  iv.  i,  105. 

Holt,  Norfolk,  ii.  224,  249. 

Holt  Castle,  Denbighshire,  i.  81,  215 ;  iv. 

59>  97  ;  V.  102.     (The  footnote  here  is 

wrong. ) 
Holt,  Harry,  ii.  131. 
Holywell,  i.  73. 
Homeworth,  v.  78. 
Hommbe  (Hambie?),  France,  ii.  7. 
'  Hone,  Set  upon  the,'  iv.  2. 
Honfleur  (Honneflefe),  Normandy,  i.  57, 

106;  iii.  63. 
Honing,  Norfolk,  ii.  62,  63,  68. 
Honingham,  Norfolk,  vi.  190. 
Hoo,  Sir  Thos.,  i.  49,  297;   ii.  175;    v. 

243- 
Hoop,  Thos,  Parson  of  Brandeston,  iv. 

167. 
Hoore,  Thos.,  iv.  284. 
Hopton,  ,  ii.  235  ;    iii.  85  ;    iv.  145  ; 

vi.  100. 
Hopton,  Sir  George,  vi.  102,  187. 
Hopton,  John,  i.  337. 
Hopton,  Robt.,  ii.  117. 
Hopton,  Walter,  iii.  249. 
Hopton,  Young,  iii.  6. 
Horell,  Davy,  iv.  279. 

Home, ,  of  Kent,  iii.  267. 

Home,  Rich.,  iv.  236,  242,  284. 

Home,  Robert,  i.  71. 

Horninghall,  Caister,  ii.  30 ;  vi.  64. 

Horningtoft,  Norfolk,  vi.  113,  114. 

Horseye,  Norfolk,  ii.  51. 

Horsham,  St.  Faith's,  Norfolk,  prior  of, 

iv.  241. 
Horshighdown,    or    Horsleydown.       See 

under  London. 
Horsmouden,  Kent,  iv.  309,  311. 
Horwellbury     (Orwellbury,      Hollewelle- 

bury,  or  Horswelbury,  Herts,  i.  30,  309 ; 

ii.  II,  109,  279,  280,  285;  iii.  264;  iv. 

251,  252,  253  ;  vi.  29,  33,  34,  40,  75» 

76,  79,  80,  191,  192. 
Hose,  iv.  185,  186. 
Hosele,  Robt.,  ii.  65. 
Hosy,  Mr.,  v.  120. 
Houson.     See  Hanson. 
Houston,  Simon,  vi.  179. 

Howard, ,  ii.  258,  331. 

Howard,  John,  afterwards  Sir  John,  and 

Lord  Howard  (1470),  created  Duke  of 

Norfolk  in  1483,  i.  164,  204,  206-209, 

210,  212,  340;   iii.  34,  36  note  i,  38, 

283 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


39,  274,  275,  280,  303,  304,  314;  iv.  2, 
5.  33.  39,  45»  60,  96,  106,  262-264,  277, 
279,  292;  V.  4,  32,  III,  137,  218,  249; 
vi.  73,  74;  Marg.,  wife  of,  iii.  314 ;  iv. 
262-264  ;  V.  194. 

Howard,  Lady  Catherine,  iv.  211-213. 

Howard,  Sir  John  {temp.  Henry  vii.),  v. 
249 ;  vi.  106 ;  Wife  of,  iv.  262. 

Howard,  Nich.,  v.  32. 

Howard,  Thos.,  Earl  of  Surrey(l483-I5i4), 
Duke  of  Norfolk  (1514-1524),  i.  270, 
287 ;  V.  137. 

Howe,  John  atte,  ii.  217. 

Howes,  Agnes,  wife  of  Wm.  Barker,  vi.  61. 

Howes,  Isabel,  vi.  61. 

Howes  (Hous),  John,  vi.  56,  58. 

Howse, ,  V.  32. 

Howsel,  Howsyl.  To  administer  the  sacra 
ment.  To  be  howselled,  to  receive:  it 
iv.  275. 

Howys  (Hawys  or  Howes),  Sir  Thos. 
Parson  of  Castlecombe,  afterwards  of 
Blofield,  Mautby,  and  Pulham,  i.  91 
117,  151,  195,  196,  198,  234-235,  236 
237,  242-243,  244,  258,  295-298 ;  ii.  80 
134,  137,  149,  152,  160,  170,  171,  178 
188,  192,  193,  194,  195  {bis),  201,  209 
212  {bis),  233, 234, 238-240, 250, 252  (^?j) 
253  {bis),  281,  283,  284,  326,  334-335 
iii.  5-6,  9-10,  lO-ii,  12,  16,  18,  21,  22 
{bis),  35,  37,  41,  54,  68,  85,  96,  97,  102 

103,  104,  105,  106-107,  112,  114,  115 
120,  121,  129,  132  {bis),  133,  138,  141 
142,  145,  150-152,  153,  157-160,  162 
163,  165-166  {bis),  194,  200,  201 
202,  206,  207,  212,  216,  217,  218-219 
230,  239,  246,  247,  251,  278,  294-295 
305,  311  ;  iv.  2,  3,  4,  9,  II,  12,  18,  27 
31-33,  66,  69,  81,   100,   lOl,    102,   103 

104,  105,  106,  108,  III-II2,  126,  128 
15s,  173,  180,  181-185,  188-190,  194 
195,  196 (^zV),  231-236,236-245,  257,269 
274,  284-286,  292,  294,  302,  303,  305 
v.  5,  12,  22,  57,  72,  79,  92,  94,  170 
242;  vi.  36,  61-64;  Richard,  servant  of. 
iii.  97,  116;  iv.  173. 

Hoxne  (Oxon),  Suffolk,  iii.  315  ;  iv.  186, 

187  ;  vi.  7. 

Hoxon, ,  V.  176,  183,  184,  188. 

Hubbard,  Jas.,  v.  207,  238,  260. 
Hugard,  Sir  Andrew.     See  Ogard. 
Huggan.     See  Hogan. 

Hugh, ,  vi.  172. 

Hugucio,  a  writer  on  Canon  Law,  vi.  177. 

Hull,  Ship  of,  vi.  91. 

Hull,  Sir  Edward,  i.  124. 

Hull,  The   Gylys  of,  iv.  43. 

Hulme  (Holme),  St.  Benet's  Monastery, 

Norfolk,  i.  197,  202,  298 ;    ii.  82 ;    iii. 

284 


149,  150,  153,  162,  163,  167,  191,  210; 

iv.  73,  80,  232,  238,  244,  293,  294;  V. 

236. 
Hulme  (Holme),  Abbots  of,  ii.  39 ;   iii. 

100,  210,  211;  iv.  242,  290,  294;  V.  78; 

vi.  19,  144  ;    Man  of,  v.  169  ;    Anselm, 

ii.  I  ;   John  Martin,  iii.  16,   17  ;    Regi- 
nald, ii.  I J    Richard,  ii.  33 ;    Thomas, 

vi.  19. 
Hungary,  King  of.     See  Ladislaus  V. 
Hungerford,  Mary,  daughter  of  Sir  Thos., 

v.  184. 
Hungerford,  Robt.,  second   Lord  (1449- 

59),  ii.  116. 
Hungerford,  Robt.,  third  Lord  (1459-64), 

iii.  306-307,  312;  iv.  35. 
Hungerford,    Sir  Robt.,    Lord    Moleyns. 

See  Moleyns. 
Hungerford,  Walter,  first  Lord  (1426-49), 

ii.  116. 
Hunnworth      (Honewerth,      Hunewrth), 

Thos.,  iv.  155,  160  {bis). 
Hunsdon,  Herts,  iii.  32,  132. 
Hunt,  Geoff.,  vi.  14. 
Hunt,  Roger,  iii.  144. 
Hunt,  Thos.,  Prior  of  Walsingham,  iii.  45. 
Huntingdon,  John  Holland,  Earl  of  (1417- 

42),  afterwards  Duke  of  Exeter,  ii.  8,  38. 
Huntingdonshire,  iv.  116. 
Huntingfield,  Suffolk,  vi,  80,  148. 
Hunton,  H.,  iii.  227. 
Husband,  David,  i.  272 ;  v.  107. 
Hyde,  R.,  v.  147,  152. 
Hygham.     See  Higham. 
Hykele,  ii.  149. 

Hyllyngworth, ,  iii.  270. 

Hypgame,  Thos.,  ii.  217. 
Hyrste,  Hobbe,  vi.  131. 
Hythe  (Hith),  Kent,  iv.  57. 

Ichyngham,  Robert  and  Joan,  ii.  293. 
Iceland  (Islond),  vi.  136-137. 
Ickborough  (Ikburgh),  Norfolk,  iii.  81. 
Iden,  Alex. ,  i.  74. 
Illee,  iv.  230. 

Illingworth,  Rich.,  Knight  and  Chief  Baron 
of  the  Exchequer  (1462-71),  iii.  84  ;  iv. 

215. 
Ing.     See  Yng. 
Inges,  Wm.,  ii.  62. 
Ingham  (Engham),  Norfolk,  ii.  215 ;   iv. 

86. 
Ingham,  Thos.,  i.  139,  14O;    ii.  229;    iv. 

182. 
Ingham,  Walter,  i.   139,  140;  ii.  302-304 

{bis),  307,  317 ;  iii.  274. 
Ingleton  (Ingulton),  Master,  iv.  268. 
Inglose,  Henry,  i.  338;   ii.  50;    iii.  114; 

iv.  211,  271 ;  Sister  of,  vi.  43. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Inglose,  Sir  Henry,  Kt.,  i.  90;  ii.  14,  43, 
109,  144,  193,  199,  200,  209,  212,  224, 
238,  251,  266;  iii.  157;  iv.  30-31. 

Inglose  (Ingelose),  Sir  John,  ii.  203. 

Inglose  (Inglys),  Robt.,  ii.  251,  326;  iii. 
217,  261  ;  iv.  30,  236,  242,  271. 

Ingoldesthorpe  (Yngylthorp),  Isabel, 
daughter  of  Sir  Edmund,  iii.  1 18. 

Ingoldesthorpe,  Jane,  widow  of  Sir  Ed- 
mund, V.  195. 

Ingram  (Yngram),  Wm.,  iv.  279. 

Ingworth,  Norfolk,  iv.  215  ;  Parson  of,  ii. 

Inmorteyse.  To  amortise,  give  in  mort- 
main, iv.  112. 

Inmet.     Unmeasured?  iv.  130. 

Intewod, ,  ii.  233. 

Intwood,  Norfolk,  iii.  39  {bis). 

Intwode,  John,  iii.  263. 

Ippyswell  (Yspwell),  Robt.,  iv.  177,  187, 
193  ;  vi.  19. 

Ipswich (Yepysweche,  etc.),  i.  64,  217  ;  ii. 
185,  243>  326  ;  iii.  90,  146,  307.  308, 
309;  iv.  30,  116,  151,  153,  154,  193; 
vi.  57,  121,  135;  St.  Laurence's  Church, 
iii.  309 ;  Sun  Inn  at,  iii.  309. 

Ireland,  i.  147,  182,  185,  186,  188,  190, 
316;  iv.  58. 

Iryng,  Roger,  iii.  237. 

Irynge,  Thos.,  ii.  214. 

Isabell  Land,  so  named  in  Scroudeby,  etc. , 
iii.  114;  iv.  237. 

Isle  of  Man,  i.  154. 

Isley, ,  Steward  of  the  Inner  Temple, 

ii.  206 ;  iv.  loi. 

Isley,  Edward,  vi.  209. 

Isley,  Isabel,  vi.  209. 

Isley,  John,  vi.  .209. 

Isley,  Thos.,  vi.  209. 

Itteringham,  Norfolk,  vi.  208. 

Ive.     See  Yve. 

Ixworth,  Suffolk,  iv.  74. 

Ixworthe,  John,  ii.  22. 

J.  B.,  Junior,  iii.  212. 

Jaallere,  John,  ii.  60. 

Jack,  a  servant,  v.  108,  152,  187. 

lack.     A  coat  of  mail,  ii.  loi,  128,  268, 

313,  322.      *Jakkyd  and  saletted '  i.e. 

armed  with  coats  of  mail  and  helmets, 

iii.  297. 
Jackson  (Jakysson),  Robt.,  iv.  306;  v.  23, 

Jacob,  John,  ti.  60. 

Jacobyn,  a  servant,  v.  ^1. 

James   11.   of  Scotland,   i.   169-170,   172, 

193-  ,     . 

James  III.  of  Scotland,  vi.  112. 
James  iv.  of  Scotland,  vi.  112. 


Jamys,  John,  ii.  244. 

Jane,  my  Lady,  v.  143. 

Jape.     To  deceive,  ii.  97. 

Jargeau,  i.  59. 

Jeffrey,  Walter,  iii.  38. 

Jeffreys,  Thos.,  vi.  74. 

Jekkes  (Jekkys),  John,  ii.  65. 

Jekkes,  Robt.,  iii.  237. 

Jenney, ,  ii.  69. 

Jenney,  Edmund,  v.  252. 

Jenney  (Geney),  John,  senior,  ii.  217. 

Jenney,  John,  of  Lord  Cromwell's  Council, 
i.  164;  ii.  145,  176,  197 ;  iii.  38,  39,  84, 
227,  276;  iv.  15,  86,  141  ;  V.  89,  160, 
161. 

Jenney,  Sir  Rich.,  ii.  211  ;  iii.  268. 

Jenney,  Thos. ,  vi.  24,  88. 

Jenney,  Wm.,  Sergeant-at-law  (1463), 
Justice  of  the  King's  Bench  (1481),  i. 
196,  209,  210,  216,  217,  218,  230,  233, 
295-298,  337 ;  ii.  81,  140,  176,  178,  182, 
190,  191,  192,  193,  194,  209,  216,  238, 

240,  252,  335;  iii.  10  \bis),  II,  16,  22, 
67,  68,  69,  84,  85,96, 138,  142,  146-147, 
263,  264,  308,  309,  310,  315,  317,  318, 
319;  IV.  9, 1 1, 29-30, 5 1, 56, 60, 62, 63,69- 
70,  88,  105, 107,  114,  116, 117,  135,  136, 
150-152,  153,  170,  180,  192,  193,  198, 
199,  200,  217,  257,  292;  V.  92,  94,  115, 
116,  117,  176,  242.  Brother  of,  ii. 
252. 

Jenneys  (family  of  the  ?),  ii.  233. 

Jerham,  John,  vi.  75. 

Jermy,  Sir  John,  Kt.,  ii.  15. 

Jermyn,  John,  i.  89,  91-93 ;  ii.  183,  203, 

241,  251. 

Jermyn,  Mr.  Thos.,  v.  271. 

Jermyn, ,  of  Suffolk,  iii.  68 ;  iv.  192. 

Jernemouth.     See  Yarmouth. 
Jerningham, ,  iii.  264;  iv.  168;  sister 

of,  iv.  168. 
Jernyngan,  John,  iii.  129-131. 
Jernyngan,  John,  junior,  i.  204  ;    iii.  291 ; 

iv.  192,  193. 
Jersey  (Yernessey),  i.  147;  ii.  321  ;  iv.  32; 

Bailiff  and  Jurats  of,  ii.  78-79. 
Jersey  and  Guernsey,  Captain  of,  ii,  78. 
Jerusalem,  Chronicle  of,  iii.  254. 
Jeryng,  Thos.,  iv.  222. 
Jewell,  Roger,  iv.  279. 
Jewels  pledged  by  the  Duke  of  York  to  Sir 

J.  Fastolf,  ii.  280. 
Jhoxson  and  his  wife  Kate,  v.  147. 
Joan,  Queen  of  Castile,  vi.  174. 
John,  Sir  Lewis,  iv.  189  ;  v.  89,  100. 
John  Amend-all,  name   for  a  captain  of 

insurgents,  i.  114;  ii.  264,  271. 
Jonge  (Young?),  Sir  Borle,  ii.  175. 
Joperte,    Jeopardy,  iv.  60 ;  v.  44. 

285 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Jornade^  or  Jornet.     A  kind  of  cloak,  v. 

67. 
Joseph,  Wm.,  i.    163;   ii.  296;  m.   29, 

44. 

Josse, ,  ii.  175. 

Joudone, ,  v.  85. 

Joyce,  Wm.,  ii.  58. 

Joye,  Robt.,  ii.  265. 

Judde,  John,  vi.  180. 

Judy  (Juddy,  or  Jwde),  a  messenger,  iv. 

287 ;   V.   15,  21,  29,  77,  78,  125,  136, 

146,  150,  152,  160,  177,  187,  190,  191, 

I93>  195- 
JuUes, ,  VI.  14,  15. 

Julles,  Joan,  vi.  209. 
Julles,  Wm.,  iii.  237. 

Jullye,  ,  Clerk  of  St.  Edmond's,  vi. 

26. 
Jullys,  Thos.,  vi.  144. 
Junkeryes.    Junketings  (?),  ii.  112. 
Justice,  the  Chief,  ii.  20. 

Kalle.     See  Calle. 

Kampe,  Holland,  ii.  104. 

Katherine.     See  Catherine. 

Kecham,  Thos.,  ii.  144. 

Keche, ,  iy.  39  ;  vi.  65. 

Keche,  John,  iii.  275. 

Kechon,  John,  ii.  65. 

Kechyn, ,  iv.  279. 

Kedman,  Rich.,  v.  305. 

Kedmay,  John,  vi.  179. 

Kela,  Thos.,  v.  269. 

Kelerys.     Vessels,  ii.  58. 

Kelke,  Stephen,  v.  76. 

Kelynge,  Wm.,  ii.  215. 

Kelsall,  Herts,  vi.  40. 

Kemp,  John,  Bishop  of  Rochester  (1419- 
21),  Chichester  (1421),  London  (142 1-6) ; 
Archbishop  of  York  (1426-51),  Canter- 
bury (1452-4),  Cardinal  (14  .  .  ),  Lord 
Chancellor  (1426-32  and  1450-4),  i.  73, 
84,  87,  88,  89,  115,  127,  129,  134,  137, 
138,  140,  141,  142-143.  157,  336;  ii.  38, 
115,  158,  160-161,  166,  168-170,  190, 
192,  226,  271,  296,  299,  303,  304,  306 
{bis)\  iii.  13,  64. 

Kemp,  Richard,  ii.  67,  68. 

Kempston,  Simon,  ii.  27. 

Kendal,  or  Kendall, ,  v.  153. 

Kendal,  Earldom  of,  i.  61. 

Kendal,  John,  v.  303;  vi.  171. 

Kendal,  Nich.,  John's  father,  v.  303. 

Kendal,  Sir  John,  Prior  of  the  Knights  of 
St.  John,  vi.  164. 

Kene,  Wm.,  iv.  308,  309. 

Kenilworth,  i.  70,  71,  73»  "6,  172,   173, 

336. 
Kensale,  Frater,  ii.  31. 

286 


Kent  County,  i.  69,  70,  75,  89,  98,  126, 
169,  173,  183,  184,  311,  316;  ii.  161, 
162  ;  iv.  loi,  308 ;  v.  82,  278,  286.  A 
priest  of,  iii.  93.  Commission  of  oyer 
and  terminer  for,  ii.  206.  Commons  of, 
iii.  92.     Insurrection  in,  vi.  73. 

Kent,  Edmund  Grey,  Earl  of  (1465-88),  i. 
259;  iv.  218,  310. 

Kent,  Geo.  Grey,  Earl  of  (1488- 1504),  vi. 

173- 
Kent,  Wm.  Nevill,  Earl  of  (1462),  iv.  60. 
Kent,  Robt.,  iii.  192;  iv.   loi,  103,  134, 

243,  244  ;  V.  192. 
Kent,  Thos.,  i.  336. 

Kentyng, ,  ii.  130. 

Kerdeston,  Sir  Wm.  de,  i.  41. 

Keriell,  Sir  Thos.,  Lieutenant  of  Calais 

(1441),  i.  67  ;  ii.  51,  147 ;  iii.  60,  64. 
Kertelyng.     See  Kirteling. 
Kervile,  Thos.,  ii.  173. 
Kervyle.     See  Carvel. 
Keshank,  France,  ii.  7. 
Keswick,  Taverham,  Norfolk,  iv.  8,  258. 
Ketteringham,  vi.  155-156. 
Kilburn,  i.  160. 
Killigrewe,  Robt.,  vi.  184-185. 
Killingworth(Kyllyngworth),  Rich.,  ii.  13. 

Killingworth, ,  vi.  209. 

King, ,  of  Downham,  iii.  282,  296, 

King,  John,  vi.  40,  41,  189. 

King,  Warin,  ii.  244 ;  iv.  10 ;  vi.  16 ;  Wife 

of,  ii.  244. 
King's  Bench,  iii.  318. 
Kingston  Bridge,  i.  98. 
Kingston-on-Hull,  i.  338. 
Kingston  (Kyngyston),  Alex.,  iii.  264. 
Kingston,  Sir  Roger,  v.  105. 
Kington  (Kyngton),  John,  iv.  279. 

Kirby  (Kerby), ,  v.  132. 

Kiriel.     See  Keryell. 

Kirkcudbright  (Kirkhowbre),  Scotland,  iii. 

307- 
Kirkeby,  Thos.  de,  Master  of  the  Rolls,  ii. 

227;  iii.  131,  236. 
Kirkehall  Manor,  Salle,  ii.  51. 
Kirkeley  (Kirley),  Lowestoft,  iii.  20,  85. 
Kirteling,  John,   Parson  of  Arkesay,   Sir 

John  Fastolfs  Receiver,  ii.  21,  113,  233  ; 

iii.  157,  194. 
Knapton,  Norfolk,  ii.  2 ;  iv.  80 ;  v.  298 ; 

vi.  15,  26,  27,  168. 
Knatysale  (Knatylsale  or  Gnateshale),  ii. 

86,  215. 
Knatysale,  Thos.,  ii.  %^  ;  iv.  225  {bis). 
Knevet  {see  also  Knjrvet),  ,  iv.  126, 

192 ;  V.  88. 
Knevet,  Joan,  Wife  of  Sir  Wm.  ,vi.  I  note  2. 
Knevette,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  155. 
Knightley  (Knythley),  Sir  Rich.,  vi.  152. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Knott, ,  iv.  146. 

Knoyll, ,  V.  104. 

Knyvet  (Knevet), ,  ii.  282  ;  iv.  20. 

Knyvet.     See  also  Knevet. 

Knyvet,  John,  ii.  217. 

Knyvett,  W.,  v.  152. 

Kok,  Sandra,  v.  180-181,  212;  vi.  180. 

Kokett.     See  Cokett. 

Kokkys,  Wm.,  vi.  123. 

Konyneclosse,  v.  231. 

Kook, ,  iv.  225.     See  also  Cook. 

Kowven,  Rich.,  iii.  241. 
Kubyte,  Oliver,  ii.  311. 
Kwte(?),  Mr.,  v.  116. 
Kyme,  Lincolnshire,  ii.  119. 
Kyng.    See  King. 
Kyngston.     See  Kingston. 
Kyrley,  Norfolk,  ii.  97;  iii.  91. 
Kyrry,  Dr.,  iii.  228. 
Kyrton,  Robt.,  v.  176. 

L.  R.,  V.  114. 

Laches.     Negligent  {?),  iv.  11. 

Lacy,  Master,  i.  269 ;  v.  198. 

Ladislaus  v.  of  Hungary  and  Queen  of,  iii. 
125. 

La  Guerche,  Brittany,  1.  51. 

L'Aigle  (Egyll),  Normandy,  ii.  6. 

Lambeth  (Lamehith),  ii.  299  ;  iii.  31,  80  ; 
iv.  104 ;  V.  20 ;  vi.  209. 

Lampet,  Ralph,  ii.  134,  149  ;  iii.  74,  162, 
264 ;  iv.  72-73  {bis),  102,  237. 

Lampney,  Marmaduke,  Treasurer  of  Eng- 
land, iii.  200,  201,  202. 

Lancashire,  iv.  96;  vi.  122. 

Lancaster,  Duchy  of,  i.  29,  31  ;  ii.  32, 150, 
191,  197,  220,  222 ;  vi.  42,  109. 

Lancaster,  Thos. ,  Earl  of,  temp.  Edward  il. , 

ii.  3. 

Lancasterother.     See  Longstruther. 

Lancastrians,  iii.  247. 

Laneham,  vi.  181. 

Langdon,  John,  Bishop  of  Rochester  (142 1- 

34),  "•  38. 
Langford,  Sir  Ralph,  vi.  187. 
Langford,  Sir  Nich.,  v.  105. 
Langham,  John,  vi.  194. 

Langham, ,  iv.  39,  174,  256. 

Langheyn, ,  of  Ireland,  iii.  307. 

Langley,  Norfolk,  v.  271  ;   Monastery  of, 

iii.   153;   iv.  81;   Nich.,  Abbot  of,  iii. 

165,   166,   218-219,   251  ;   iv.   81,   104, 

242,  271  ;  V.  92. 
Langman,  John,  of  Swaffham,  ii.  214. 
Langston,  Suffolk,  iii.  20,  90,  91. 
Langue-de-bceuf.     A  kind  of  glaive,  ii.  302 

note  4. 
•  L'Arbre  de  Bataille,'  ii.  291. 
Lanham, ,  iv.  39. 


Larragonneys,  Sir  Francis,  i.  104 

Lasuze,  France,  iii.  57. 

Latchesnes.     Neglect,  vi.  44. 

Latimer,  John  Neville,  fifth  Lord,  Lands 

of,  ii.  44. 
Latimers,  Manor  of,  i.  28,  29,  36  ;  iv.  251  ; 

V.  298;  vi.  190,  191,  194. 
Lauerawns,  Robt.,ii.  133. 
Launyegays.    Lancegay,  a  kind  of  lance,  v. 

10. 
Lauton,  Janet,  ii.  135. 
Lavenham,  Suffolk,  iv.  37  ;  vi.  93,  106. 
Lawes  (Fitzlawes?),  Mr.,vi.  163. 
Lawes,  Robt.,  iv.  154,  238,  239. 
Layer,  vi.  38. 
Leawe,  John  de,  iii.  50. 
Leche,  Sir  Philip,  ii.  8. 
Lechefeld,  ,  Mason  of  Westminster, 

V.  105. 
Leder,  Rich.,  iv.  279. 
Ledham,  Robt.,  i.  112,  114;  ii.  197,  198, 

267,  269,  270,  307-314,  329-330.      See 

also  Lethum. 

Lee, ,  ii.  273,  275. 

Lee,  Edmund,  v.  86. 

Lee,  Rich.,  vi.  10,  11,  17-18, 

Lee,  John,  i.  286 ;    iv,  301  ;    v.  207,  208  ; 

vi.  24,  29. 
Leevys,  Sir  Thos.,  v.  2,  3. 
Legal  Procedure,  general  familiarity  with 

in  15th  century,  i.  117-118. 
'  Legend  of  Ladies,'  i.  323  ;  vi.  65. 

Leghe, ,  widow,  vi.  167. 

Leicester,  i.  68,  70,  159,  172,  173,  174  ; 

ii.  17,   18,  26,  28,  145,  149,  150;  iii. 

118,  139,.  233;  V.  179,  180,  181. 
Leicestershire,  iii.  98. 
Le  Mans,  i.  49-5°.  52,  S^,  77- 
Le  Neve,  Peter,  Will  of,  i.  330-331. 
Lenn.     See  Lynn. 
Lent,  Clean,  iv.  93. 
Lente,  Matilda  and  Thos.,  ii.  9. 
Leo,  Pope,  i.  228,  229. 
Leseaux.     See  Lisieux. 
Lesings.     Lies,  falsehoods,  ii.  226. 
Lessingham,  Richard  de,  ii.  3. 
L'Esparre,  Sieur  de,  i.  121. 
L'Estrange,  Roger,  vi.  145-146. 
Letheringham,  iii.  260. 

Lethom, ,  ii.  157. 

Lethum,   Robt.,  ii.    237,    309;   iii.   133, 

279.     See  also  Ledham. 
Letter  writing  in  times  of  Paston  Letters, 

i.  65,  318-319. 

Leukenore, ,  iv.  78. 

Levelond,  Kent,  iv.  309,  311. 
Leventhorpe,  Mrs.  Jenkin,  ii.  81. 
Leventhorpe,  John,  ii.  299. 
Leventhorpe,  Laurence,  ii.  299. 

287 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


Levernoys,  Sir  Hugh,  v.  157. 

Lewes,  Suffolk,  i.  74  ;  iii.  303.     Priory  of, 

iii.  126. 
Lewes,  Philip,  vi.  129. 
Lewes,  Sir  Rich.,  vi.  130,  187. 

Lewis, ,  iii.  185. 

Lewis,  Sir  Thos.,  v.  i. 

Lewis  XI.,  King  of  France,  i.  246,  247, 

288,  289,  290-291,  294,  299 ;  iii.  306  ; 

iv.  35.  57,  299;  V.  113,  179,  180,^84, 

203,  219,  224,  258,  277,  287,  297. 
Lewisham,  Kent,  vi.  209. 
Lexham,  East  (Estlexhara),  Norfolk,  iv. 

22. 
Ley,  Rich.,  iii.  236. 
Leyhert.     See  Lyhart. 
Leystoft.     Set  Lowestoft. 
Leyston,    Suffolk,    Abbots    of,    ii.    216. 

Thos.,  ii.  23  note  i. 
Lichfield,  i.  172. 

Lightfoot  (Lytefot), ,  vi.  115. 

Lightfoot,  Rich.,  vi.  166. 

Likone,  France,  ii.  8. 

Limnour.     See  Lomner. 

Lincluden  Abbey,  i.  193. 

Lincoln,  iv.  233.     H.  B.  of,  iii.  214. 

Lincoln  Castle,  ii.  119. 

Lincoln,  Earl  of,  i.  312. 

Lincoln,  Bishops  of.     See  Alnwick,  Wm. 

(1436-49) ;  Chedworth,  John  (1452-71)  ; 

Gray,     Wm.     (1431-36)  ;    Rotherham, 

Thos.  (1472-80). 
Lincoln,  Rich.,  S.  T.  P.,  i.  305  ;  v.  327. 
Lincoln  (Lyn  Calyn),  Wm.,  iii.  44. 
Lincolnhalle,  Beighton,  Norfolk,  iv.  292. 
Lincolnshire,  v.    69,    70.      Rebellion  in, 

v.  70. 
Ling.     See  Lyng. 
Lingwood,  Norfolk,  ii.  271,  311. 
Linsted.     See  Lynsted. 
Lipgate  (Lypzate),  Philip,    Bailiff  to  the 

Duke  of  Suffolk,  i.  218,  219,  221,  226 ; 

iv.    132,   137,  138,  139  (note  i),    142, 

146,  157,  160,  169,  186. 
Lisieux,  Normandy,  i.  56  ;  ii.  5. 
Lisle,  Lord,  i.  124. 
Lister.     See  Lyster. 
Listen  (Lyston),  John,  ii.  47. 
Little,  John,  iv.  159,  205. 
Littleton.     See  Lyttleton. 
Livelode  or  Lifflode.     Lands  or  rents  from 

which  an   income  was  derived,  iv.   4, 

etc. 
Liveries,  v.  29. 
Lobsters.     Stoats,  vi.  133. 
Loddon,  Norfolk,  iv.  242  ;  v.  311. 
*  Lodonys  wife,'  v.  119. 
Lodylond.     See  Lothingland. 
Loer,  John,  iv.  102,  104,  237,  239,  269. 

288 


Lollards,  the,  i.  175. 
Lombards,  the,  vi.  35. 

Lomnour, ,  ii.  157,  280. 

Lomnor,  or  Lumnor,  Anne,  vi.  208. 
Lomnor,  Henry,  vi.  209. 
Lomnor,  Jas.,  vi.  209. 
Lomnor,  John,  iii.  227  ;  vi.  209. 
Lomnor,  Margaret,  vi.  208. 
Lomnor,  Thos.,  iv.  277  ;  vi.  209. 
Lomner  (Limnour  or  Lumnor),  Wm.,  i. 

65,  67,  204,  261,  262,  309  ;  ii.  146-148, 

176,  236;    iii.  208-209,   286-287,  298; 

iv.  6,  8,  105,  141-142,  146,  172,  194  ; 

V.  73,  100,   102,  125,  i6o,  285  ;  vi.  19, 

22,  23,  29,  29-31,  32,  77,  208,  209. 
London,    Bishop   of.      See   Kemp,   John 

(1421-6). 
London, /ajj/w.     Letters  dated  at,  ii.  134, 

137,  148,  149,  152,  157,  162,   170,   171, 

179,  189,  192,  193,  194,  195,  200,  201, 

206,  209,  233,  252,  253,  254,  299,  325, 

327,  331  J    iii.  45,  48,  66,  78,  82,  99, 

126,  127,  132,  136,  192,  205,  220,  222, 

224,  234,  263,  280,  285,  290,  299,  300, 

312;    iv.   31,  89,   118,   126,   128,   169, 

174,  217  ;  V.  8,  24,  41,  45,  52,  91,  100, 

186,  191,  199,  201,  204  [bis)y  216,  218, 

250,  261,  271,  290,  317,  319;  vi.  3,  41 

[bis),  Tiy<)2,  108,  119,  145,  167,  170. 

Commotions  in,  iii.  33,  86. 

Discontent  of  citizens,  ii.  207. 

Errands  of  Agnes  Paston  to,  iii.   123. 

Lombards   in,   iii.    87.     Merchants  of, 

iii.  86.     Recorder  of,  ii.  176. 
London,  Places  in,  and  adjoining  : — 

Bermondsey,  iii.  229. 

Billingsgate,  The  Bell  at,  vi.  11. 

Black  Friars,  i,  %T,  177,  286  ;  iii.  127 ; 
iv.  185  ;  V.  252  ;  vi.  201,  206,  209. 

Bow  Church,  i.  330.     Churchyard,  vi.  8. 

Bread  Street,  Gerard's  Hall  in,  vi.  34. 

Candlewick  Street  ward,  ii.  124. 

Charterhouse,  v.  186. 

Cheap,  i.  72,  87  ;  v.  62. 

Cheapside,  vi.  11. 

Clifford's  Inn,  i.  37. 

Farringdon,  Within  ward  of,  ii.  121, 
122. 

Fleet  Prison,  i.  34,  134,  136,  140,  141, 
209,  210,  211,  217,  224,  227,  228, 
333  ;  "•  303*  306  ;  iv.  12,  196,  204, 
245  ;  V.  139  ;  vi.  112. 

Fleet  Street,  i.  177,  333  ;  ii.  174  ;  v.  ^S, 
116,  137. 

Furnival's  Inn,  ii.  19. 

Gray's  Inn,  ii.  330. 

Guildhall,  i.  72  ;  iii.  84  ;  iv.  26. 

Horsleydown  (Horshighdown),  ii.  235  ; 
iii.  92,  107. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


London,  Places  in,  etc. — continued. 

King's  Bench  Prison,  i.  74  ;  iv.   204 ; 

vi.  202. 
Lincoln's  Inn,  i.  140 ;  ii.  303  ;  v.  314; 

vi.  10. 
Lombard  Street,  The  George,  v.  144 ; 

vi.  II. 
London  Bridge,  i.  71,  73,  75,  78,  205  ; 

ii.  15s,  207  ;  iii.  142,  271  ;  v.  1 1 3. 
London  House  (Bishop  of  London's), 

iii.  29. 
Ludgate,   iii.    196,    254 ;    iv.    185 ;   vi. 

202. 
Marshalsea  Prison,  i.  74,  78  j  ii.  156  ; 

vi.  202. 
Mart  Lane  (Mark  Lane),  i.  133  ;  ii.  297. 
Mile  End,  i.  72. 
Mint,  The,  vi.  11. 
Newgate  Prison,   i.   141  ;   ii.  306 ;   iii. 

227 ;  vi.  202. 
Paul's  Cross,  iii.  227,  243. 
Paul's  Wharf,  The  George  by,  v.  206, 

214,  23s,  239,  258,   259,   261,  274, 

304.  313.  320;  vi.  13. 
St.  Al ban's  Wood  Street,  vi.  202. 
St.  Bridget  or  Bride,  iv.  245  :  vi.  34. 
St.  Giles,  i.  63. 
St.  Gregory's  Parish,  iv.  245. 
St.  James,  i.  163. 
St.  Katherine's,  i.  133 ;  ii.  297. 
St.  Laurence  Lane,  ii.  81. 
St.   Laurence   Pulteney,   Parish  of,  ii. 

124. 
St  Margaret  Pattens,  i.  72. 
St.  Martin's,  v.  137. 
St.  Mary  Eldermary,  iv.  244. 
St.  Michael,  Crokyd  Lane,  iv.  244. 
St.   Paul's,  i.   loi,  178;   ii.   155,  158; 

iii.  191,  196,  280;  iv.  102,  245. 
St.  Paul's,  Rood  at  North  door,  i.  228 ; 

iv.  186. 
St.  Sepulchre's  Parish,  ii.  121. 
Salisbury,  Inn  of  the  Bishop  of,  iii.  48. 
Silver  Street,  v.  208. 
Smithfield,  i.  70. 
Staple  Inn,  v.  121. 
Temple,  The,  ii.  in,  187,  246;  iii.  50, 

no.  III,  141,  254,  314. 
Temple  Bar,  iii.  125. 
Temple  Gate,  iii.  239,  245. 
Temple,  Inner,  ii.  55,  79,  135,  206,  278, 

301  ;  iv.  18,  68. 
Temple,  Middle,  ii.  206. 
Temple,  New,  Master  of,  ii.  98. 
Thames  Street,  i.  133  ;  ii.  297. 
Tower,  The,  i.  59,  60,  62,  70,  72,  73. 

77.  88,  133,   158,  262,  274,  280;  ii. 

297  ;   i».  33 ;   V.  99,   137,   181  ;  vi. 

121. 

VOL.  VI. T 


London,  Places  in,  etc. — continued. 

Tower  Hill,  ii.  297. 

Warwick's  Inn,  i.  292,  293  ;  vi.  207. 

Warwick  Lane,  v.  223. 

Whitechapel,  i.  72. 

White  Friars  (or  Carmelites),   L    177, 
308;  iii.  127;  V.  300;  vi.  28,  35. 

Wood  Street,  v.  208. 

London, ,  i.  267. 

Longclose,  Cromer,  ii.  293. 

Longford,  Sir  Nich.,  v.  105. 

Longham,  John,  ii.  26. 

Long  Stratton,  Norfolk,  vi.  90. 

Longstruther  (Lancasterother),  Robt.,  iii. 

261-262. 
Longstruther,  Sir  John,  Prior  of  St  John's, 

Lord  Treasurer  (1469),  v.  32,  104. 
Longville,  Sir  John,  vi.  187. 
Longyard,  John,  v.  306. 
Lore,  John,  iii.  248. 
Lorraine,  i.  299 ;  v.  258. 
Lothingland  (Lodylond),  Suffolk,  ii.  170; 

iii.  154;  iv.  51,  238,  244;  V.  146,  148. 
Lounde,  Thos.,  iv.  243. 
Loundhall,  Saxthorpe,  iv.  109,  289,  292. 
Louviers(Louerse), Normandy,  i,  105;  ii.  5. 
Love,  John,  iv.  136. 
Loveday.       Explanation  of  term,  iii.   195 

note  I. 

Loveday, ,  iv.  15 1,  152. 

Loveday,  Agnes,  ii.  237. 

Loveday,  Janore,  v.  181. 

Loveday,  John,  iv.  105,  230  ;  v.  107,  125. 

Loveday,  Philip,  v.  103,  163. 

Loveday,  Wm.,  v.  163. 

Lovedeyne,  Harry,  i.  149. 

Lovegold,  Robt.,  i.  231  ;  iv.  204. 

Lovel  (Lovell), ,  v.  21,  41,  140-141, 

244 ;  vi.  10. 
Lovel,  Francis,  son  of  John,  Lord,  Vis- 
count   Lovel    (1483-7),    i.  312;    vi.  92 

(3w),   93,  95,  100 ;   Anne,  wife  of,  vi. 

91,  92  ;  mother  of,  iii.  143. 
Lovel,  Sir  Gregory,  vi.  187. 
Lovel,  John,  Lord,  iii.  143. 
Lovel,  Ralph,  v.  98. 
Lovel,  Thos.,  v.  210,  211. 
Lovel,  Sir  Thos.,  vi.  102,  158,  187. 

Lovelase, ,  ii.  155. 

Loveyn,  Lord,  Arms  of,  vi.  47. 

Lowdon,  France,  ii.  7. 

Lowe,  John  ^,  vi.  116,  1 17. 

Lowe,  John,  Bishop  of  Rochester,  ii.  156. 

Lowes,  John,  v.  89. 

Lowestoft  (Leystoft),  Suffolk,  iii.  246 ;  iv. 

70,  237,  292 ;  v.  107,  148,  234,  304 ;  vi. 

21. 
Loweys,  Herry,  iii.  30. 
Lowys, ,  iii.  104,  117, 

289 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


Loyes,  The,  v.  i68. 

Lubeck,  Ships  of,  ii.  104. 

Ludford,     near     Ludlow,    dispersion    of 

Yorkists  at,  i.  181 -2. 
Ludlow,   Salop,   iii.    132,   233;     Ludlow 
Castle,  i.  86, 96,  98, 116, 149, 180-2,  336; 
Battle  of  Mortimer's  Cross,  near,  iii.  266. 

Lukett  (Lwket, ,  iii.  110,  131,  305. 

Lumley, ,  iii.  114. 

Lumner.     See  Lomner. 
Lusignan,  i.  122. 

Lydgate's  De  Regimine  Principutrty  v.  3  ; 
'Temple  of  Glass,'!.  323;  v.  135;  vi. 
65. 

Lydham, ,  iv.  147. 

Lye,  Alex.,  iv.  87. 

Lyhart  (Hart),  Walter,  Bishop  of  Norwich 
(1446-72),  i.  219,  223,  256,  279,  283, 
293.  336;   ii.  82,  96,  97,  170,  171,  192, 
253  {bis),  265,  266,  267,  268,  309,  311  ; 
iii.  45-46  {bis)y  82,  83,  99,  141,  166,  228, 
249,  251,  263,  292,  315,  319;  iv.  28-29, 
31,  67  {bis\  70,  138-139,  142,  145,  160, 
186,  193,  232,  304,  307;  V.  37-39,  117, 
146,  169-170. 
Lympnour,  Thos. ,  of  Bury,  v.  4. 
Lymyngton,  Walter,  vi.  53. 
Lynd  Calyn  (Lincoln?),  Wm.,  iii.  44. 
Lynde.     See  Lyne. 

Lyndesey, ,  ii.  302. 

Lyndford,  John,  iii.  157. 
Lyndis  (Lynes),  Sir  Thos.,  Clerk,  iv.  195, 
196,  228,  229,  262 ;  V.  69, 143,  145,  302. 
Lyne,  Sir  Thos.,  vi.  187. 
Lyne  (Lynde  or  Lynne),  Wm.,  iii.  75 ;  iv. 

239,  243.     See  also  Lynys. 
Lyng,  Norfolk,  iv.  226. 
Lyng,  Sir  T.,  vi.  151-152. 
Lynghall,  v.  299. 

Lynn  (Lenn),  Norfolk,  i.  89,  92,  214,  248, 
256 ;  ii.  39,  145,  173,  174,  196,  200, 
201,  204,  208,  209,  210,  211,  214,  230  ; 
iii.  12,  290,  310 ;  iv.  28-29,  4i»  42,  84  ; 
v.  31,  46,  63,  96;  vi.  60. 
Lynn,  Grey  Friars  (or  Friars  Minors)  at, 

ii.  208 ;  vi.  113. 
Lynne,  Robt.,  iii,  235  ;  iv.  102,  104,  106, 

239;  v.  177- 
Ljmne.     See  Lyne. 

Lynsted, ,  iv.  125. 

Lynsted,  Rich.,  ii.  135  ;  iv.  105,  171,  229; 

V.  298  ;  Thos.  (?),  brother  of,  v.  299. 
Lynsted,  Thos.,  vi.  14,  145. 
Lynwoode,  Dr.  Wm.,  i.  180. 
Lynys,  Wm.,  i.  204  ;  iii.  291. 
Lyra,  Nich.  de,  iii.  243. 
Lyseux,  Thos.,  Keeper  of  the  Privy  Seal, 

ii.  321. 
Lyster,  John,  ii.  174,  21 1  ;  iii.  227  ;  iv.  5. 

290 


Lyster,  Wm.,  ii.  9. 

Lyston.     See  Liston. 

Lytefot.     See  Lightfoot. 

Lytell,  Edmond,  iv.  279. 

Lyttleton,  Thos.  (the  celebrated  Judge),  ii. 

74  ;  iii.  85,  91,  107,  222 ;  iv.  88,  292. 
Lyttleton,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  187. 
Lytton,  Sir  Robt.,  vi.  152. 
Lytyldonham.     See  Dunham,  Little. 

Mace,  V.  119. 

Mackerell,  Dr.,  iii.  269. 

Madies,  Thos.,  vi.  206. 

Madok,  Edward  of,  iv.  96. 

Magdalen,   daughter  of   Charles  vil,   of 

France,  iii.  125. 
Magges,  W.,  iii.  22. 
Maile,  John,  ii.  318. 
Maine,  France,  i.  46,  47,  48,  49,  50,  57, 

60,  62,  77,  103,  107-108;   ii.  40,  121, 

123,  133;  iii.  155;  vi.  83. 
Maine,  Charles  of  Anjou,  Count  of.     See 

Anjou. 
Maintenance,       A    legal     term,    ii.    167 

note  3. 

Mak, ,  ii.  130. 

Makefyrr,  Wm.,  vi.  172-174. 
Makestock  Castle,  Warwickshire,  ii.  76. 
Maldon,  i.  276 ;  ii.  54;  v.  150,  151. 
Maldon,  Bailiff  of,  v.  148,  150. 
Malley.     See  Mauley. 

Malmesbury, ,  iii.  204,  210. 

Malmesbury,  Roger,  iv.  183. 

Malmsey,  v.  122. 

Malpas,  John,  i.  192  ;  vi.  165. 

Malpas,  Philip,  i.  72,  174. 

Malpertius,  the  Lord,  vi.  125-126. 

Malso  (Mulso),  Sir  Wm.,  i.  81. 

Malt,  Price  and  sale  of,  iv.  46,  125,  133, 

166,  172 ;  V.  25,  222,  233. 
Maltby.     See  Mautby. 
Maltby,  Johannes  de.   See  Mauteby,  John. 
Manchester,  v.  71. 
Manners,  Thos.,  First  Earl  of  Rutland, 

i.  26. 

Manning, ,  iii.  319. 

Mannington,  Norfolk,  vi.  208. 

Mans,  Le  (Maunce),  France,  ii.  123,  133. 

Mantes  (Mawnt),  France,  ii.  6. 

Manufrac  (?),  Robt.,  iv.  178. 

March,  Earl  of.     See  Edward  iv. 

Marchall,  Thos.,  i.  332. 

Marche,  Robt.,  ii.  65. 

Marches,  The,  i.  79,  100. 

Margaret,   Daughter  of  Rich.,   Duke  of 

York,  and  sister  of  Edward  iv.,  married 

in  1468  to  Charles  the  Bold,  Duke  of 

Burgundy,  i.   239,  247 ;    iii.  233 ;    iv. 

277,  296,  297,  298 ;  v.  175,  258,  297. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Margaret  of  Anjou,  Queen  of  Henry  vi., 
i-  45.  47,  59.  7^,  87,  130,  133,  136,  156- 
157,  158,  166,  167,  170-172,  173,  175, 
178,  182,  187,  192-193,  194,  195,  215, 
260,  261,  277,  299  ;  ii.  284,  296,  297, 
321  ;  iii.  4,  13,  32,  60,  75,  86,  87,  92, 
103,  108,  118,  127,  218,  232,  234,  267, 
269,  306-307  ;  iv.  32,  51,  57,  299;  V. 
100,  131. 

Marget, ,  iv.  227. 

Marham,  Peter,  vi.  186. 

Mariot,  ,  iv.  21,  230;   v.  24,  25,  33, 

134;  vi.  108. 

Mariot,  John,  ii.  49,  64, 102, 1 12,  216  {^s) ; 
iv.  272;  V.  63,  64,  139,  145. 

Mariot,  Rich.,  iv.  105. 

Markham, ,  iii.  84,  133,  276 ;  iv.  49. 

Markham,  John,  v.  245. 

Markham,  John,  afterwards  Sir  John,  Jus- 
tice of  the  King's  Bench,  ii.  69,  78,  88, 
181,  182;  iv.  116. 

Marlborough,  i.  216;  iv.  116. 

Marlborough,  Statute  of,  v.  309. 

Marlingford,  Norfolk,  i.  308,  309;  ii.  11, 
302;  iv.  251,  252,  253;  V.  299;  vi.  5, 
19.  29,  30,  33,  34,  56,  57,  58,  76,  78, 
148,  190,  191,  192. 

Marlingford,  Gerald  of,  vi.  5 ;  Parson  of, 
ii.  302 ;  vi.  56. 

Marney,  Sir  Harry,  of  Essex,  vi.  152. 

Marsh  (Mershe),  Thos.,  iv.  279. 

Marshall  (Merchall),  John,  ii.  256;  iii. 
44 ;  iv.  102,  104,  239. 

Marshall,  Roger,  iv.  105. 

Marsham,  Norfolk,  vi.  190. 

Marteres.     Martin's  fur,  iv.  263. 

Martham,  Norfolk,  ii.  51  ;  vi.  190,  193. 

Martin,Thos.,i.330;vi.  113, 114,156,159. 

Martin,  Wm.,  vi.  199. 

Martyn, ,  v.  300. 

Mary,  Queen,  i.  26,  27. 

Mary  of  Gueldres,  Queen  of  James  II.  of 
Scotland,  iv.  44,  50. 

Mary,  sister  of  James  III.  of  Scotland,  v. 
144. 

*  Mary  Grace,'  a  ship,  iv.  57. 

*  Mary  Talbot,'  a  ship,  iv.  41,  43. 
Maryot.     See  Mariot. 

Marj^s,  Sir  Wm.,  iv.  187. 

Mason,  Edmund,  v.  98. 

Mason,  Thomas,  ii.  65. 

Master  (or  Clerk)  of  the  Rolls,  iv.  177. 

See  also  Kirkeby,  Thos.  de  (1447-61) ; 

Alcock,  John  (147 1-2) ;    Morton,  John 

(1472-9) ;  Morton,  Robt.  (1479-83). 
Mathew,  Wm.,  iii.  259  ;  iv.  204. 
Matlask,  Norfolk,  ii.  51,  287 ;  v.  169;  vi. 

48,  116;  Matelaske  Kerre,  v.  169. 
Mattishall,  Norfolk,  vi.  7$. 


Mattishall,  Burgh,  Norfolk,  vi.  75. 

Mauley  (Malley),  Radulfus  Bigot,  Dominus 
de,  iii.  268.  This  must  have  been  a  de- 
scendant of  Constance,  eldest  daughter 
of  Peter,  seventh  Lord  Mauley,  who 
died  in  14 15.  Her  second  husband  was 
Sir  John  Bigot. 

Maundevilles,  Manor  of,  vi.  74. 

Maunvyle,  John,  iii.  237. 

Mautby  (Mawdby  or  Mawteby),  Norfolk, 
i.  150,  274,  279,  306,  321  ;  ii.  51,  91, 
188,  211,  329;  iii.  83,  23s,  239;  iv.  9, 
46,  105,  125,  130,  196,  237  ;  V.  Zt,  117, 
142,  147,  221,  223,  228,  232,  233,  236, 
240,  241,  271,  289,  292,  296,  306  (*»V), 
311,  312,  324;  vi.  17,  48,  108;  Arms 
of,  vi.  47  ;  Bailiff  of,  i.  315  ;  vi.  123 ; 
Chapel  at,  i.  279;  iii.  135;  iv.  195  ;  v. 
200;  vi  46,  47,  51  ;  Parson  of,  v.  180, 
231  ;  vi.  44. 

Mautby  Close,  v.  154. 

Mautby  Marsh,  iv.  124. 

Mautby,  Thos.,  ii.  51. 

Mautbys,  in  Waxham,  vi.  55. 

Mauteby,  Alianora  or  Eleanor,  widow  of 
Robt.,  ii.  46,  51,  52. 

Mauteby,  Alianora,  sister  of  Robt. ,  ii.  46. 

Mauteby,  Edward,  ii.  51;  iv.  225,  258; 
V.  93,  302. 

Mauteby,  John,  father  of  Margaret  Paston, 
i.  39  ;  ii.  45  note  2,  46,  50,  51, 52 ;  vi.  45, 
46-48. 

Mauteby,  Margaret.  See  Paston,  Margaret. 

Mauteby,  Margery;  wife  of  John  and 
mother  of  Margaret  Paston,  li.  46,  51, 
%Zy  100 ;  vi.  48. 

Mauteby,  Peter,  ii.  46. 

Mauteby,  Robt.,  ii.  46,  51,  52 ;  vi.  45,  53. 

Mauteby,  Sir  John,  ii.  85. 

Mauteby,  Sir  Robt.  de,  ii.  4,  85, 

Mawnt.     See  Mantes. 

Mawteby.     See  Mauteby. 

Maximilian  of  Austria,  King  of  the  Romans 
( i486- 1 5 19),  V.  297;  vi.  III. 

May,  Wm.,  Master  of  the  New  Temple,  ii. 
98 ;  vi.  135. 

Mayshate,  iv.  202. 

Measures,  difference  of,  in  London  and 
Norfolk,  iv.  47. 

Measures  of  malt,  iv.  125. 

Medeley, ,  iv.  230.     See  also  Modeley. 

Medew,  Thos.,  ii.  160. 

Med  we,  Wm.,  ii.  299. 

*  Meeds  of  the  Mass,'  vi.  66. 

Melford,  Suffolk,  ii.  258  ;  vi.  140. 

Melton,  Norfolk,  v.  299 ;  vL  5,  57 ;  Par- 
son of,  vi.  5. 

Melton  Magna,  Norfolk,  vi.  57. 

Mendham, ,  v.  182. 

291 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


Mendham,  Friar  John,  ii.  318. 

Mendlesham,  Suffolk,  iv.  192. 

Meney,  Menye,  or  Meyne.  A  retinue  or 
company,  ii.  83,  ill.  Qu.  this  significa- 
tion in  '  to  owle  meney,'  ?  ii.  246. 

Merchall.     See  Marshall, 

Mercroft,  Roger,  iii.  28. 

Mercyment.  An  amerciament  or  fine,  ii.  245. 

Merkeshale,  Norfolk,  ii.  51. 

Merlyngforth  (?).     See  Marlingford. 

Mershlond,  Daniel  of,  iv.  170,  172. 

Mersh,  Wm.,  iv.  154. 

Messeden,  Robt.,  iv.  280. 

Mestlyon,  vi.  58. 

Met  or  Mette.  Measure,  iv.  130,  *strek 
met '  (exact  measure  ?). 

Metfield,  Suffolk,  vi.  103. 

Methis  or  Holkham,  vi.  63,  64. 

Methwold,  Norfolk,  ii.  215. 

Metsharp,  Roger,  ii.  209. 

Metteney,  Peter,  v.  176. 

Mews,  The  King's,  at  Westminster,  iii.  44. 

Meyne.     See  Meney. 

Middleham,  Yorkshire,  i.  179,  250;  ii. 
333  ;  iii.  271. 

Middleton,  Norfolk,  ii.  87,  138  (*5jV),  139 
{bis)i  14P,  141  {bis)  ;  iii.  i<X),  lOi ;  v.  33. 

Middleton, ,  vi.  66. 

Middleton,  Christopher,  vi.  206. 

Middleton,  Dr.,  vi.  206. 

Middleton,  Mrs.  Jane,  v.  296. 

Middleton,  Sir  John,  v.  194,  259,  296. 

Milan,  Duke  of.     See  Sforza. 

Mileham,  Norfolk,  ii.  214. 

Miles,  Lewis,  v.  104. 

Milewatier,  John,  i.  148. 

Mill,  Robt.,  vi.  19. 

Miller,  Robt.,  iii.  120. 

Miller,  Simon,  iii.  263 ;  iv.  108. 

Milsent,  John,  v.  80,  85,  91,  99,  141. 

Milsent,  Wm.  (Mylsant),  v.  60,  77,  99, 
122,  123,  185,  198,  212. 

Minor  Friars.     See  Grey  Friars. 

Minster,  Isle  of  Sheppey,  vi.  88. 

Mitte  sapientem.     A  proverb,  ii.  201,  206. 

Modeley  (Medeley?),  ,  iv.  227.     See 

Medeley. 

Molet,  John.     See  Mowth. 

Moleyns,  Adam  de,  Bishop  of  Chichester, 
i.  49,  58,  59,  62,  78,  82. 

Moleyns,  Eleanor,  i.  42. 

Moleyns,  Robt.  Hungerford,  Lord,  i.  42- 
44,  84,  85,  91-93,  125,  233  ;  ii.  88,  90- 
91,  94,  95-96,  99,  III,  112,  127-134, 
157,  161-162,  166-167,  168-170,  171- 
172,  176,  179,  180,  182,  183,  186,  216, 
219,  224,  228,  230,  235,  236  {bis),  241- 
242,  248,  249,  250,  258  ;  V.  117  ;  Alia- 
nora,  wife  of,  ii.  166-167. 

292 


Moleyns,  Robt.,  i.  42  ;  ii.  31. 
Moleyns,  Thos.,  iv.  279. 
Moleyns,  Wm.,  i.  41,  42 ;  ii.  31. 
Molyneux,  Nich.,  iii.  50,  69,  70;  v.  128. 
Moncontour,  Brittany,  vi.  126. 
Mondonet,  Nich.,  v.  60. 
Moneslee.     See  Mundesley. 
Monford,  Osbert.     See  Mundford. 
Monke,  John  (alias  Smith),  iv.  236,  237- 

241,  284. 
Monmouth,  i.  116. 
Monpysson,  Robt.,  ii.  116. 
Montague,  Isabel,  Marchioness,  v.  195. 
Montague,  John  Nevill,  Lord.     See  Nevill. 

Montayn, ,  v.  144. 

Montfort,  France,  ii.  7. 
Montgomerey,  Anne,  vi.  29. 
Montgomery,  Sir  Thos.,  i.  211,  249;  iv. 

IS,  16,  17,  275,  281  ;  v.  35,  63,  85,  202, 

219,  224,  225  ;  vi.  20,  121. 
Montils,  near  Tours,  i.  54. 
Montjoy.     See  Mountjoy. 
Montreuil  (Motrell),  v.  287. 
Moody  (Mody),  Piers,  v.  275,  282,  287. 
Moor,  The,  Hertfordshire,  i.  274 ;    v.  20, 

62,  80,  131. 
Morat,  i.  299. 
More,  Adam  atte,  ii.  311. 
More,  John  ^,  vi.  114. 
More,  Thos.,  iv.  128,  129. 
Moreton.     See  Morton. 
Morgan,  Philip,  Bishop  of  Ely  (1426-34), 

ii.  38- 

Morin,  John,  ii.  "jZ. 

Moring,  Thos.,  iii.  199. 

Morlaix,  Brittany,  ii.  104;  vi.  118. 

Morley,  Isabel,  widow  of  Thos.,  Lord,  ii. 
84-85,  88,  179,  224;  iii.  14. 

Morley,  Lady,  Widow  of  Wm.,  Lord,  ii. 
20 ;  vi.  78,  79. 

Morley,  Thos.,  ii.  308. 

Mortaigne,  Normandy,  ii.  6. 

Mortimer,  Lady,  mother  of  Sir  John 
Fastolf,  ii.  4  ;  iii.  155.  See  also  Fastolf, 
Mary. 

Mortimer,  John,  i.  69-70. 

Mortimer,  Sir  John,  vi.  loi,  187. 

Mortimer,  Robt.,  ii.  216,  261. 

Mortimer,  Sir  Thos.,  iii.  155. 

Mortimer,  the  younger,  iv.  61. 

Mortimer's  Cross,  Battle  of,  iii.  266  note 
I. 

Mortlake,  iii.  loi. 

Mortoft, ,  iii.  208. 

Morton,  Parish  of,  vi.  184. 

Morton,  John,  D.D.,  Master  of  the  Rolls 
(1472-9),  Bishop  of  Ely  (1478-86),  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbury  (i486- 1500),  Lord 
Chancellor  (1487-1500),  Cardinal  (1493), 


GENERAL  INDEX 


i.  282  ;   iii.  242,  269 ;   v.  196,  210,  219, 

224,  225,  235;  vi.  22,  23,  28,  30,  32, 

152,  206,  207. 
Morton,  Robt.,  Master  of  the  Rolls  (1479), 

vi.  32. 
Morvile,  France,  ii.  6. 
Morysby,  Sir  Chris.,  v.  105. 
Mot,  Mons.  de  la,  iii.  306. 
Motford.     See  Mutford. 
Motrell.     See  Montreuil. 
Motten,  Sir  Wm.,  v.  105. 
Motton,  John,  vi.  118. 
Moundford.     See  Mundford. 
Mountjoy,  Lord,  vi.  69. 
Mountjoy,    Walter     Blount,     first     Lord 

(1465-74),  v.  62. 
Moushold  (Musshold),  Norwich,  iii.  210. 
Moustierville.     See  Mustervilers. 
Mowbray,  Ann,  daughter  of   the  fourth 

Duke  of  Norfolk,  i.  276 ;    Duchess  of 

York  v.  247,  250  ;  vi.  24. 
Mowbray ,  John,  Earl  Marshal  in  Henry  v.  's 

time,  afterwards  second  Duke  of  Norfolk, 

ii.  8.     See  also  Norfolk. 
Mowth  (Mowght,  or  Molet),  John,  Prior 

of  Norwich  (I4S3-7I).  i-  235  >  iv.  67,  71, 

219-220,  275-276;  vi.  96. 
Mulso,  Sir  Edmund,  ii.  321. 

Munde, ,  v.  117  ;  vi.  24. 

Mundesley  (Moneslee),  Norfolk,  i.  25,  36  ; 

ii.  19 ;  vi.  4,  188,  190. 
Mundford  (Monford),  Osbert,  Marshal  of 

Calais,  i.   95,    114,   115,   185,   187;    ii. 

137,  145,  216,  240,  255,  256-257,  273- 

274,  308,  312,  313;  iii.  140-141,  262. 
Mundford,  Eliz.,  wife  of  Osbert,  Aunt  of 

Margaret  Paston,  ii.  257  ;    iii.  52 ;   iv. 

22-23  »  Mary,  daughter  of,  iii.  52  note  2. 

Mundford, ,  vi.  153. 

Mundford, (Osbert?),  iii.  135. 

Mundham,  Manor  of,  ii.  192  {bis),  212 ;  iv. 

281. 
Murder,  Appeal  of,  v.  65. 
Murlee.     See  Morley. 
Musgrave,  Sir  John,  vi.  187. 
Muster  de  Velers.     A  kind  of  grey  woollen 

cloth,  ii.  155  ;  iii.  123 ;  v.  307 ;  vi.  180. 
Mustirvilers (Moustierville),  France,  i.  106; 

ii.  6. 
Mutford  (Motford),  Suffolk,  Bailiff  of,  iv. 

192,  193. 

Mykelfylde, ,  younger,  iv.  192. 

Myles,  Christiana,  v.  98. 
Mylsant.     See  Milsent. 

Myners, ,  v.  201. 

Mynshe,  John,  iv.  280. 

Myrfyn, ,  of  Kent,  iii.  307. 

Myrr,  ii.  251. 

Myryel,  John,  v.  152,  181,  185. 


Myvers  (?),  iv.  169. 

Nacton,  Suffolk,  iii.  93,  308,  309  ;  iv.  9, 
62,  63,  152,  199,  292  ;  v.  245. 

Nailer, ,  iii.  103. 

Nancy,  i.  299. 

Nantron,  Luke,  iv.  235. 

Narbow,  Wm.,  ii.  173,  308. 

Narford,  Norfolk,  ii.  215. 

Naseby,  John,  Proctor,  iv.  103,  104,  243, 
244. 

Naunton, ,  ii.  77. 

Naunton,  Wm.,  iii.  317  ;  iv.  136,  139,  143, 
161. 

Navell,  Chas.,  ii.  308. 

Nawton,  Wm.,  iv.  205. 

Necton  (Neyghton),  Norfolk,  v.  167. 

Nedeham, ,  iv.  268. 

Nedersole, ,  v.  121. 

Nedham,  John,  Justice,  iii.  222. 

Neill,  John,  v.  70. 

Neketone,  Edmund,  son  of  Robt.  de,  ii.  3. 

Nessfeld, ,  v.  254. 

Netter,  Thos.,  of  Walden,  Provincial  of 
the  Carmelite  Order  in  England,  ii.  54. 

Nettlestead  (Netlestede),  Suffolk,  iii.  112. 

Neuss,  Germany,  Siege  of,  i.  288-289 ;  v. 
218,  219,  225. 

Neuton.     See  Newton. 

Neve,  Thos. ,  iv.  237,  243,  244,  284. 

Nevill,  Anne,  wife  of  Richard,  Duke  of 
Gloucester,  v.  136. 

Nevill  (Nevell),  Edw.,  vi.  174. 

Nevill,  George,  Bishop  of  Exeter  (1456-65), 
Archbishop  of  York  (1465-76),  Lord 
Chancellor  (1454-5  and  1460-3),  i.  189, 
226,  243,  244,  248,  252,  253,  274,  340  ; 
iii.  198,  226,  227,  269 ;  iv.  8,  53,  89, 
loi,  no,  127,  168,  217,  220,  221,  303, 
304,  305 ;  V.  12  {bis),  13,  20,  24,  35,  41, 
42,  43,  44,  46,  47,  62, 63,  69,  80,  92,  99, 
116,  131,  137,  199;  vi.  77. 

Nevill,  Sir  George,  v.  105 ;  vi.  102,  187. 

Nevill,  John,  or  Sir  John,  brother  of  Earl 
of  Warwick,  created  Lord  Montague, 
1461 ;  Earl  of  Northumberland  1464  ; 
resigned  Earldom  and  created  Marquis 
of  Montague,  1470,  i.  131,  228,  3H-3I5  ; 
iii.  199,  267,  276;  iv.  60;  V.  62,  71, 
100. 

Nevill,  Lord,  i.  131,  193;  iii.  267,  268; 
vi.  71. 

Nevill,  Master,  ii.  8 ;  iii.  254. 

Nevill  (Ralph?),  Lord,  vi.  71. 
Nevill,  Sir  Thos.,  iii.  74,  199. 
Nevill,   Robert,    Bishop    of    Durham,   i. 

136. 
Nevylebeke,  France,  ii.  7. 
Newark,  v.  96. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Newborow,  Sir  Roger,  vi.  152. 

Newbury,  i.  75. 

Newbury,  Sir  Wm.,  v.  105. 

Newcastle-on-Tyne,  i.  215 ;  iv.  60,  61, 
142  ;  Pilgrim  Street  in,  iv.  142. 

Newdigate  (Nudygate),  Henry,  iv.  280. 

Newham  Bridge,  Calais,  i.  183  ;  v.  297. 

Newington,  Kent,  iv.  309. 

Newman, ,  ii.  286. 

Newman,  Colyn,  iii.  138. 

Newman,  John,  ii.  302. 

Newman,  Nich.,  iv.  2,  102,  104,  237,  239. 

Newmarket,  Cambridgeshire,  iii.  217  ;  vi. 
124  ;  the  Beacontree  (Bekyntre)  near,  ii. 
40. 

Newport,  Thos.,  of  Runham,  ii.  46. 

Newton,  v.  234. 

Newton,  Friar,  ii.  1 10. 

Newton,  Robt.,  v.  78. 

Newton  (Neuton),  Thos.,  iv.  237,  243, 
280,  284  ;  vi.  7. 

Neyghton.     See  Necton. 

Nicheson, ,  v.  95. 

*  Nicholas  of  the  Tower,'  a  ship,  i.  64,  65  ; 
ii.  146. 

Nicholas  v.,  Pope,  ii.  96  note  i. 

Nicolas,  Sir  Harris,  the  Antiquary,  i.  108. 

Nicoll,  Gilbert,  iv.  154. 

Noans,  France,  ii.  7. 

Noble,  Percy,  ii.  43. 

Nokold,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  209. 

None,  Henry,  iv.  242. 

Nonpier  [noonpiery  nounpier).  Umpire, 
ii.  14. 

Noreys,  Sir  Edward,  vi.  102. 

Norfolk,  County  of,  i.  89,  90,  I11-112, 
115,  164,  189,  315,  330;  ii.  29,  161, 
162,  165,  166,  171,  179,  181,  182,  196, 
206,  242,  260,  267,  273-275,  329;  iii. 
loi,  116,  117,  161,  162,  163,  164,  190, 
221,  289 ;  iv.  53,  66,  91.  136,  188 ;  v. 
465  9S»  96 ;  vi.  90 ;  Collector  of  taxes 
in,  V.  178;  Edward  IV. 's  Visit  to,  iii. 
299  ;  Elections  and  Knights  of  the  Shire 
for,  ii.  184,  185  ;  iii.  34,  36,  38,  39,  292, 
293,  297  ;  V.  149-150 ;  Escheators  of,  iv. 
116;  Escheatorship  of,  iii.  108;  Feeling 
of  the  *  Commons '  of,  292  {bis) ;  Gentle- 
men of,  ii.  260 ;  Officers  in,  iii.  222  ; 
Risers  (Insurgents)  in,  ii.  106  ;  Subsidy 
in,  V.  206;  Woodsales  in,  v.  118. 

Norfolk,  Sheriffs  of,  ii.  157,  186 ;  iii.  32, 
223,  290  ;  iv.  78,  79,  93,  94.  See  also 
Clopton,  John  ;  Jermyn,  John  ;  Under 
Sheriffs  of,  iii.  208,  289,  290,  291,  292, 
297 ;  iv.  68,  79,  87,  93,  94,  107.  See 
also  Dory,  John,  and  Price,  W. 

Norfolk,  •  The  Head-Town '  of,  iv.  296. 

Norfolk  Thread,  iii.  40. 

294 


Norfolk,  John  Howard,  Duke  of  (1483-5). 
See  Howard. 

Norfolk,  John  Mowbray,  second  Duke  of 
(1424-32),  i.  33,  333  ;  ii.  15-18.  See  also 
Mowbray. 

Norfolk,  Catherine,  Duchess  of,  wife  of 
John  Mowbray,  the  second  Duke,  ii.  71, 
255 ;  iv.  104. 

Norfolk,  John  Mowbray,  third  Duke  of, 
(1432-61),  i.  85,  87,  92,  III,  114,  132, 
149,  158,  164,  201,  202-203,  204,  208, 
215,  241,  243,  245,  246,  250-254,  257, 
258,  260,  262,  264,  266,  272,  274,  275- 
276,  284,  294,  295,  297-298,  311,  323, 
337-338 ;  ii.  47,  48,  49,  52,  68-69,  82, 
145,  162,  163,  165,  168,  171,  182,  184 
{bis),  185,  186,  188,  199,  210,  220,  239, 
242,  243,  254-255,  258-260  {bis),  262. 
263  {bis),  265,  273,  274,  275-276,  279, 
290-292,  298,  299,  301,  335;  iii.  4,  7, 
II,  18,  19,  20,  30,  33,  34,  38,  39,  90, 
112,  212,  260,  262,  277,  278,  283,  286, 
311,  313;  iv.  31. 

Norfolk,  Eleanor,  Duchess  of,  wife  of  the 
third  Duke,  i.  163-164;  ii.  199;  iii.  34, 
143-144,  260,  262;  V.  251. 

Norfolk,  John  Mowbray,  fourth  Duke 
(1461-76),  i.  214-215,  229-230;  iv.  58, 
60,  73-74,  80,  95,  96,  162,  165,  166,  191, 
198,  199,  200-201,  207,  272,  273,  274, 
277.278,  287,  290,  302,  304,  307  ;  V.  6, 
7,  9,  10,  17,  22,  23,  24,  29,  30,  31,  32, 
36,  40,  41,  42-44,  45,  46,  47  {bis),  49,  50, 
SI,  52,  53,  55,  56,  59,  61,  63,  65,  68, 69, 
70,  71,  73,  84,  89,  90,  91,  92  {his),  109, 
128,  132,  133,  138,  142,  147,  149,  150- 
151,  157,  160,  161,  162,  163,  166,  170, 
171,  172,  176,  183,  210,  215,  218,  219, 
224,  235,  237,  238,  239,  240,  245,  246, 
247,  249,  250,  251,  260;  vi.  74,  85; 
Council  of,  iv.  200,  302 ;  v.  10,  18,  22, 
42,  43,  52  {bis),  53,  54,  68,  73,  75,  150, 

161,  170,  224,  238,  242-244. 
Norfolk,  Elizabeth,  Duchess   of,   wife  of 

the  preceding,  i.  243,  260,  264,  274, 
275-276,  294-295,  297 ;  iv.  96,  97,  159, 
198,  199,  287,  304  ;  V.  22,  23,  68,  70, 
73,  84,  85,  109,  133,  136,  139,  143,  147, 
148-149,  150,  151,   155,  156,  158,  161, 

162,  163,  166,  170,  171,  176,  183,  187, 
218,  224,  229,  235,  238,  239,  240,  241, 
249,  250,  251,  254 ;  vi.  I,  18,  29,  57,  58, 
59,  148,  149,  155-156,  159. 

Norfolk,  Yeoman  for  the  King's  mouth,  iii. 
198. 

Norfolk, ,  of  Gem5mgham,  ii.  102. 

Noris, ,  vi.  39.     See  also  Norys. 

Norman, ,  ii.  192. 

Norman,  Edmund,  ii.  67-68  ;  vi.  171. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Norman,  John  and  Margaret,  ii.  68. 
Normandy,  i.  45,  50-57,  58,  61,  64,  67,  76, 

n*  87,  95,  96,  97,   102-103,   104-108, 

128,   132,   174;    ii.    121,   123-126,    133, 

162,  291 ;    iii.  58,  60,  63,  64,  155,  312 ; 

vi.  83. 
Norris,  Henry,  i.  81. 
Norris,  Thos.,  i.  81. 

Norse, ,  v.  143. 

Northale,  John,  Sheriff  of  Norwich,  iv.  10. 
Northampton,  iv.  78  ;  v.  181  ;  Statute  of, 

ii.  174. 
Northampton,  Battle  of,  i.   189,  192 ;  iii. 

274. 
North  Cray.     See  Cray. 
North  Walsham.     See  Walsham,  North. 
Northumberland,    Eleanor,    Countess   of. 

Widow  of  Henry  Percy,  third  Earl,  i. 

205,  259;  iii.  281. 
Northumberland,    Henry    Percy,    second 

Earl  of  (1414-55),  i.   131,  147 ;  iii.  25, 

28,  29,  30,  31. 
Northumberland,  Henry  Percy,  third  Earl 

of  (1455-61),  i.  i6r,  169,  177,  193;    iii. 

126,  234,  267,  268,  269. 
Northumberland,  Henry  Percy,  fourth  Earl 

of  (restored  1470,  died  1489),  v.  71, 137  ; 

vi.  118,  120,  127-128.      See  also  Percy, 

Henry,  Lord. 
Northumberland,    John    Nevill,    Earl    of 

(1464-70).     6"^^  Nevill. 
Northwood,  John.     See  Norwode. 
Norton,  Norfolk,  vi.  16,  31. 
Norwich,  i.  25,  30,  75,  84,  85,  90,  112, 

206,  210,  221,  227,  230,  231,  245,  248, 
276,  279,  284,  296,  306,  313*  315.  322  ; 
ii.  13,  15,  20,  54,  87,  92,  93,  94,  95.  96, 
loi,  108,  109,  135,  136,  145,  170,  171, 
176,  179,  192,  203,  209,  211,  212,  213, 
214,  216,  223,  224,  225,  228,  229,  230, 
233.  234.  238,  239,  240,  243,  245,  248, 
251,  252,  253,  260,  262,  265,  267,  268, 
274,  277,  280,  282,  284,  285,  286,  287, 
301.  307.  324*  328;  iii.  4»  6,  15,  32, 
47,  S3»  78,  79,  "4,  "6,  124,  130,  135, 
139,  142,  161,  162,  163,  164,  202,  204, 

205,  208,  214,  218,  227,  244,  246,  259, 
260,  262,  272,  278,  287,  311,  316;  iv. 
2,  10,  12,  17,  18,  23,  35,  36  {bis\  39, 
40,  43,  44,  47,  53,  59,  66,  70,  76,  83, 
93,  94,  106,  108,  128, 143,  159,  161,  162, 
168,  174,  i8o,  181,  186,  187,  193,  204, 

206,  210,  211,  223,  226,  230,  237,  240, 
241,  242,  256,  257,  262,  266,  276,  281, 
283,  284,  303  ;  V.  6,  9,  16,  19,  29,  30, 
31,  32,  33,  34,  36,  42,  65,  66,  67,  68, 
73,  74,  75,  76,  79,  87,  89.  90,  108,  109, 
114,  123,  141,  149,  152,  166,  177,  184, 
188,  197,  207,  219,  222,  228,  229,  250, 


238,  239,  240,  242,  246,  247,  248,  249, 
252,  25s,  259,  263,  264,  266,  271,  272, 
275,  288,  291,  311,  317,  323,  326;   vi. 
4,  5,  10,  16,  23,  25  {,bis),  26,  31,  44,  55 
(*«>),  58,  59,  69,  91,  121,  134,  144,  153, 
166,  183,  186,  189,  209 ;    Plague  at,  v. 
no;   Shire-mote  at,  iii.  297;    iv.   17; 
Writ  of  Parliament  for,  iii.  38 ;    Mayor 
of,  i.  322  ;  ii.  310 ;  iv.  204,  266 ;  v.  89 ; 
Sheriff  of,  ii.  310. 
Norwich,  Bishops  of,  ii.  21.      See  Gold- 
well,  Jas.  (1472-99) ;  Lyhart,  W.  (1446- 
72).     Chancellor  of,  ii.  149. 
Norwich,  Priors  of,  i.  32  ;   ii.  18,  39,  88, 
107,  159,217;  iii.  42,  114;  iv.  116,  117; 
vi.    103 ;    John,  ii.   64 ;   iv.   97  ;  John 
(Bonwell),  vi.  95-98.     See  alio  Mowth, 
John,  Haverland,  John. 
Norwich,  Places,  etc.,  in  : 
'Abbey.'    .^^^  Priory. 
Bishop's  Gates,  i.  90 ;  ii.  224. 
Castle,  i.  34,  260,  333;  ii.   144,  234; 

V.  85,  155. 
Cathedral  and  Priory  of  Holy  Trinity 

or  Christchurch,  i.  27,  90,  113,  330; 

ii.  261,  268  ;  vi.  20,  189;  Lady  Chapel 

in,  iv.  250,  253. 
Chapel  of  the  Field,  vi.  49. 
Christ  Church.     See  Cathedral. 
Conesford,  vi.  49. 
Convent  of,  ii.  107  ;   iii.  232 ;  iv.  237  ; 

vi.  96-98. 
Friars,  four  orders  of,  ii.  55  ;  iv.  226, 

227 ;  vi.  49. 
Friars,  Black  (or  Preachers),  ii.  274 ;  v. 

207 ;  vi.  49. 
Friars,  Grey  (or  Minors),  i.  32;  ii.  13, 

15,  300;  iii.  252,  292. 
Friars,  White  (or  Carmelites),  i.  38,  112; 

ii.  268,  309;  iii.  316;  iv.  229,  253; 

V.  82 ;  vi.  49,  77. 
Gates,  The  five,  vi.  49. 
Guildhall,  iv.  222  ;  v.  178. 
Maid's  Head,  v.  163. 
Man  croft,  ii.  212. 
Nedeham  Gates,  ii.  13. 
New  Inn,  i.  265  ;  v.  114. 
Normandy,  Sisters  of,  iv.  226  ;  vi,  49. 
Normans,  vi.  49. 
North  Gates,  vi.  49. 
Pokethorpe,  ii.  171,  212;  iv.  237;  vi. 

61. 
Prince's  Inn,  ii.  194,  195. 
Priory   (sometimes  called   'Abbey')   of 

Trinity  Church,  i.  90;  ii.  224;  iv.  250. 
St.  Andrew's  parish,  ii.  318. 
St.  Clement's  parish,  ii.  243. 
St.  Edmund's,  vi.  57. 
St.  Giles'  Hospital,  i.  265  ;  vi.  49. 

29J 


THE   PASTON  LETTERS 


St.  Gregory's,  iv.  65. 

St.  James',  Pokethorpe,  iv.  237. 

St.  Laurence's  parish,  ii.  247. 

St.  Leonard's  Priory,  i.  40  ;  ii.  55 ;  iii. 
287. 

St.  Michael  Coslany,  vi.  49. 

St.  Michael's  parish,  iv.  14. 

St.  Peter's,  iv.  227. 

St.  Peter's,  Hungate,  iv.  230 ;  vi.  49,  50; 
Parson  of,  iv.  231. 

St.  Stephen's,  i.  331  ;  iv.  227,  229. 

Spurrier  Row,  iv.  17. 

Tombland,  i.  90 ;  ii.  224. 

Westewyk  Gates,  ii.  13. 
Norwich,  Christopher,  iii.  223,  237. 
Norwich,  Robt,,  ii.  233;  iv.  242. 
Norwich,  Wm.,  ii.  175,  176  ;  iii.  78,  lOi  ; 

iv.  2,  71. 
Norwode  (Northwood),   John,   ii.  88-90, 

283,  287. 
Norys,  Sir  Edward,  vi.  187. 
Norys,  Sir  Wm.,  iv.  279 ;  v.  195  ;  vi.  187. 

See  also  Noris. 
Nosbet,  Robt.,  iv.  280. 
Note,  Thos.,  ii.  95. 
Nottingham,  i.  248,  249,  250;  v.  35,  36, 

195- 

Nottingham  (Pursuivant?),  iii.  268. 

Nottingham  (Notyngham),  Henry,  ii.  81. 

Nottingham,  Wm.,  iv.  88. 

Nottingham,  Wm. ,  Earl  of,  vi.  74. 

Nouche  or  Nowche.  A  jewelled  gold  but- 
ton, brooch,  or  necklace,  v.  16. 

Novel  disseisin,  ii.  47  note  3. 

Nowell,  Chas.,  i.  112,  113,  114;  ii.  260, 
261-262  {bis),  265,  267,  274;  iii.  135. 

Nowell,  Otiwell,  ii.  267. 

Noy.  *  At  the  first  Noy,'  i.e.  at  the  first 
call,  iii.  5. 

Noyssed,  noised.     Reported,  ii.  208. 

Nyter,  John,  iv.  279. 

Oby  (Owby),  Norfolk,  vi.  45. 

Ocam,  Thos.,  vi.  190. 

Ocle.     See  Acle. 

Ocle,  Sir  Robt.,  iii.  30,  269. 

Ocley,  Wm.,  vi.  186. 

Ode,  John,  ii.  217  ;  iii.  47. 

Oelston,  John,  ii.  74. 

Office.       An  inquisition,   ii.  188  note  2 ; 

iii.  236. 
OfFord,  Robt.,  iii.  loi. 
Ogan.     See  Hogan. 
Ogard,  Dame  Alice,  iii.  80-81. 
Ogard  (Hugard),  Sir  Andrew,  ii.  251,  308; 

iii.  51. 
Ogle  (Ogyll),  Robt.,  first  Lord  (1461-9), 

iv.  60. 
Okill.     See  Acle. 

296 


Oldhall,    Margaret,    wife    of    Sir    Wm., 

ii-  33- 
Oldhall,  Sir  Wm,,  i.  81,  83,  85;  ii.  33, 

174,  I7S»  176,  180,  186,  191,  301 ;  iii. 

33,  41,  132,  199,  234;  iv.  292;  V.  94. 

Oliver, ,  iii.  103. 

Olton  (?  Oulton,  Norfolk),  iii.  263. 

Oranges,  vi.  132. 

Orford,  iii.  259. 

Orford,  John,  iv.  230. 

Orleans,  Bastard  of.     See  Dunois. 

Orleans,  Chas.,  Duke  of,  i.  46,  60,  106; 

ii.  46-47,  122,  123. 
Ormesby,  Norfolk,  ii.  51 ;   iv.   105,   180, 

258;  v.  117,  299;  vi.  108,  149,  171. 
Ormesby,  Reppes  Place  in,  ii.  39. 
Ormesby,  Roger,  ii.  95. 
Ormond,  Jas.  Butler,  fourth  Earl  of  (1405- 

52),  ii.  8. 
Ormond,  John  Butler,  sixth  Earl  of  (1461- 

78),  i.  299 ;  V.  258. 
Ormond,  John,  iii.  234,  307. 
Ormond,  Mr.,  iii.  213. 
Ormond,  Sir  Jas.  of,  ii.  89. 
Orwelde,  Leach  of,  ii.  63. 
Orwellbury.     See  Horwellbury. 
Osbern,  the  Priest,  i.  i. 
Osbern  (Osborn),  John,  i.  92  ;  ii.  98,  130, 

174,  222,  228,  241-243,  249,  264-265, 

278,  279;   iii.  128,  291;   iv.  154,  238, 

239,  242;   V.   117,   144,   167-168,   181, 

182,  183,  197;  vi.  176,  177. 

Osebern, ,  ii.  156,  158,  210  j  iii.  8 1. 

Oter,  John,  iii.  199;  iv.  216. 

Otford,  Kent,  vi.  209. 

Othea,  v.  3;  vi.  66. 

Ottery  (Otryght),  Devonshire,  iii.  234. 

Oulton  (Owlton),  Norfolk  (?),  iv.  225.    See 

also  Olton. 
Ouresby,  John,  iii.  186. 
Overs,  Awge,  France,  ii.  6. 
Ovid,  De  Arte  Amandi,  etc. ,  iv.  268. 
Ovy,  — -,  ii.  318. 
Ovye,  Nich.,  v.  321. 
Owayn,  Wm.,  ii.  173. 
Owby,  vi.  45. 
Owches.    Jewels,  iv.  262. 
Owdin,  J.,  V.  117. 
Owell,  Wm.,  ii.  313. 
Owle,  To,  ii.  246  note  3. 
Owstoonde,  Norfolk,  v.  298. 
Oxborough,  Norfolk,  v.  229 ;  vi.  100. 
Oxford  (Oxynford),  i.  152,  241,  279,  305, 

306,  319-320;  iv.  293;  V.  170,  174,  320; 

vi.  12,  13,  14,  17. 
Oxford,  Magdalene  College,  i.  258,  284  ; 

V.  77,  81,  82,  216. 
Oxford,   John  de  Vere,   twelfth   Earl  of 

(1417-61),  i.  85,  90,  139,  140,  141 ;   ii. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


144,  145,  150,  151,  163,  i64{6ts),  165- 
166,  168,  173,  176,  179,  183,  184-185, 
186,  193,  196,  200,  201  (iis)y  202,  203, 
204,  207,  208,  210,  211,  212,  213,  223, 
225,  226,  231,  249,  253,  275,  302,  303, 
304.  305.  306,  334  ;  iii.  2,  30,  258,  259, 

27s ;  iv.  39. 

Oxford,  Elizabeth,  Countess  of,  wife  of  the 
preceding,  i.  291  ;  ii.  294  {dts),  295  ;  iv. 
39, 80,  105,  226  ;  V.  16,  loi,  202  ;  vi.  65. 

Oxford,  John  de  Vere,  thirteenth  Earl  of 
(1464-1513),  Lord  Admiral  under  Henry 
VII.,  i.  240,  252,  260,  261,  277,  281-282, 
311, 312,  313-314,  315,  316,  340 ;  iv.  28- 
29,  35-36,  105,  193,  268,  300;  V.  5, 9,  46, 
47,  62,  63,  84,  85,  89,  90-91,  94-95,  95- 
96,  101-102,  184,  186,  188,  189,  201, 
203,  289  ;  vi.  2,  27,  81,  88,  95,  99,  100- 
loi,  105,  106,  107,  III,  113,  114,  116, 
122,  124,  125,127-128,  I28-I29(*w),  130, 
135136  i^ts),  137,  138,  139,  140,  141, 
142,  143,  144,  146,  160,  166,  167,  168, 
181,  183  ;  Brothers  of,  v.  in  ;  Son  of, 
iv.  37. 

Oxford,  Margaret,  Countess  of,  wife  of  the 
preceding,  i.  324  ;  iv.  3C0  ;  v.  loi  note 
2,  137,  251,  289;  vi.  92-93,  146,  165. 

Oxnead,  Norfolk,  i.  26,  27,  28,  36,  37-38, 
304-305.  308,  309;  "•  2,  3,  II,  60,  61, 
83,  icx»,  109 ;  iv.  251  ;  v.  221,  299,  308; 
vi.  I,  19,  29,  30,  59,  76,  78,  133,  190, 
191  ;  Parson  of,  ii.  60,  88,  93,  94,  234 ; 
V.  325,  327 ;  Church  and  Parsonage  of, 
V.  325-327;  vi.  I  note  4,  3,  9-1 1. 

Oj'er  and  Terminer ^  ii.  161  note  3. 

P. ,  Lady  Anne,  iv.  268. 

Page,  Thos.,  iv.  178. 

Pagentoun,  Maimer,  iii.  28. 

Pagrave  (Palgrave),  Norfolk,  ii.  64,  320; 

iv.  250,  256 ;  vi.  96. 
Pagrave,  Little,  ii.  64 ;  iii.  23. 
Pagrave,  Mekyll,  iii.  23. 

Pagrave, ,  ii.  88. 

Pagrave,  John,  ii.  261 ;  iii.  23 ;  vi.  192, 

193,  198. 

*  Pakker,  The,'  a  ship,  v.  190. 

*  Palatyse  and  Scitacus,'  vi.  66. 
Palle,  Roger,  iii.  212. 
Palling,  Norfolk,  ii.  51  ;  vi.  151, 
Palmer, ,  ii.  73. 

Palmer, ,  Under  Sheriff  of  Norfolk, 

iv.  282 ;  Escheator,  vi.  22,  23. 

Palmer, ,  Bailiff  of  Costessey,  iii.  227. 

Palmer,  Edmund,  ii.  63. 

Palmer,  John,  iv.  204,  209. 

Palmer,  Margaret,  vi.  209. 

Palmer,  Wm.,  i.  332. 

Pamping,  John,  i.  285  ;  iii.  220,  288,  298, 


308-309  ;  iv.  33,  71,  92,  93-95,  130,  142, 
185,  274  ;  V.  I,  2,  8,  9,  23,  60,  66,  67, 
68,  73.  74.  75.  77-79,  80,  97,  98,  no, 
112,  115,  119,  122,  139,  140,  152,  187, 
199,  200. 

Pamsborow.     Su  Punsborne. 

Papias  (Papie),  the  Grammarian,  vi.  177. 

Par,  John  of,  iv.  275  ;  v.  32,  105. 

Parcerit,  Clement  and  Cecil,  ii.  3. 

Paris,  iii.  63,  157  ;  Bastile  of  St.  Anthony, 
iii.  62.  See  also  Antony;  Chamber  of 
Accounts,  iii.  63. 

Paris  Touch,  Silver  of,  vi.  63. 

Parker  (Parkar), ,  v.  122. 

Parker  (Perker), ,  v.  74,  140,  25 1. 

l*arker,  James,  vi.  102,  187. 

Parker,  John,  vi.  17. 

Parker,  Nich.,  Notary,  iv.  102,  104,  168, 
182,  245. 

Parker,  Robt.,  v.  306. 

Parker,  Thos.,  ii.  98. 

Parker,  Wm.,  v.  195. 

Parklos,  ii.  246. 

Parlevesque,  France,  ii.  7. 

Parliament,  Elections  to,  iii.  34. 

*  Parliament  of  Birds,'  Chaucer's,  i.  323  ; 
vi.  65,  66. 

Parminter,  Wm.,  i.  75,  334. 

Parnell,  John,  ii.  293. 

Parr,  Sir  Thos.,  iii.  199. 

Parr,  Wm.,  vi.  173. 

Parre,  Sir  John,  v.  137,  144,  147,  219. 

Parson,  Wm.,  vi.  19. 

Partrich,  John,  servant  of  Lord  Moleyns, 
ii.  99,  loi,  219,  230,  249. 

Partrick,  John,  of  Swathfield,  Vicar  of 
Paston,  ii.  63,  72. 

Partridge.     See  also  Pertryche. 

Pasche,  Thos.,  vi.  27. 

Paston  (Pastune),  Norfolk,  i.  25,  28,  29, 
35.  36,  37,  225,  238,  308,  309 ;  ii.  2,  3, 
4,  46,  51.  57,  62-63,  70,  71,  72,  77,  135. 
247,  256,  278;  iv.  248,  251;  V.  116, 
117,  298  ;  vi.  3,  16,  22,  24,  29,  33,  76, 
190 ;  Church  of  St.  Margaret,  ii.  63 ; 
iv.  230;  vi.  188. 

Paston,  Vicars  of,  i.  37;  iv.  124,  126;  v. 
208,  209;  Rich.  Cawston  (1409-22),  vi. 
189  {bis). 

Paston  Hall,  i.  26,  35. 

Paston  Letters,  literary  history  of,  i.  i  -3  ; 
account  of  the  mss.  ,  their  disappearance 
and  recovery,  i.  3-10;  edition  of  1872- 
75,  and  plan  of,  i.  11,  19,  20;  editorial 
accuracy  of  Fenn,  the  first  editor,  i.  12- 
19 ;  places  of  deposit  of  the  original 
MSS.,  i.  20,  21. 

Paston  (de  Pastun),  early  members  of  the 
Family  : — Clement,  iL  4 ;  Constantine, 

297 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


ii.  3  ;  Edmund,  ii.  2,  3  ;  Eudo,  ii.  2 ; 
Hugh,  ii.  2,  3  ;  John,  ii.  3  ;  Nicholaus 
filius,  Radulphi  Diaconi,  ii.  2 ;  Osbern, 
ii.  I  ;  Ralph,  ii.  I ;  Richard,  ii.  2,  3  ; 
Richer,  ii.  i;  Robert,  ii.  2,  3,  4;  Roger, 
ii.  2,  3 ;  Walter,  ii.  3 ;  Warin,  ii.  3 ; 
William,  ii.  3,  4 ;  Wystan  or  Wolstan, 
ii.  2. 

Paston  Family,  Ancestry  of,  i.  25  ;  iv.  181, 
247-249. 

Paston,  Agnes,  wife  of  William,  the  Judge, 
and  daughter  of  Sir  Edmund  Barry,  i. 
30»  37,  38,  39,  40,  155,  217,  2i8,  251, 
292,  293,  304-305,  307,  309,  321  ;  ii. 
II,  45,  46,  62-63,  64,  65,  66,  72-73,  74, 
75,  77,  79,  80,  82,  108-109,  135,  147, 
223-224,  243-244,  245,  246-247,  255- 
256,  278-280,  285,  292,  301-302,  314, 
315-316;  iii.  123,  124,  134,  270,  311; 
iv.  10,  14,  23,  60,  80,  90,  105,  127,  140- 
141,  167,  180,  223,  247,  248,  294 ;  V.  9, 
36,  37,  38,  39,  75,  82,  86,  192,  212, 214, 
220,  298,  327;  vi.  2,  3,  9,  10,  II,  18, 
19,  20,  24,  28,  29,  33,  77,  95-98,  189, 
191,  192,  193,  194,  195,  198,  199;  Dis- 
agreement  with  her  son  John,  iv.  140- 
141;  Will  of,  iv.  249-251,  251-253 
{its) ;  vi.  20 ;  Parentage  of,  iv.  253. 

Paston,  Dame  Agnes,  second  wife  of  the 
later  Sir  John,  vi.  167,  209. 

Paston,  Agnes,  daughter  of  Wm.,  vi.  206. 

Paston,  Alice,  daughter  of  Robt.  of  Wive- 
ton,  vi.  200,  201. 

Paston,  Anne,  daughter  of  John  and  Mar- 
garet, married  in  1477  to  Wm.  Yelver- 
ton,  i.  284-286,  306,  310,  324;  iv.  186, 
287;  v.  II,  16,  93,  142,  143,  144,  147, 
199,  200,  262,  271;  vi.  17,  50-51,  53, 
119. 

Paston,  Lady  Anne,  wife  of  Wm. ,  v.  67, 
75 ;  vi.  206. 

Paston,  Beatrix,  wife  of  Clement,  and 
mother  of  the  Judge,  vi.  188,  190. 

Paston,  Christopher,  son  of  John  the 
youngest,  i.  27,  302,  310;  iii.  90?  vi.  i. 

Paston,  Clement,  father  of  the  Judge,  i. 
28-30,  39;  ii.  64;  iv.  247  ;  vi.  188-189, 
190,  191,  194. 

Paston,  Clement,  son  of  Sir  Wm.,  i.  26-27. 

Paston,  Clement,  son  of  the  Judge,  i.  208, 
218;  iii.  92,  123,  124,  217,  229,  232, 
248,  249-250,  281-282,  299,  302,  303- 
305,  313-314;  iv.  9,  20,  34,40,  79,  89,  90, 
91-92,  96,  loo-ioi,  127,  167,  217,  218, 
246,  247,  248,  250,  251,  252,  253,  259 ; 
vi.  76,  95,  193,  194,  195,  196,  197,  198. 

Paston,  Clement,  son  of  John,  i.  290,  306. 

Paston,  Constance,  daughter  of  Wm.,  son 
of  the  eldest  John,  vi.  164. 

298 


Paston,  Edmund,  son  of  the  Judge,  i.  37  ; 
ii.  6o-6i,  72-73,  79-80,  93,  94,  98,  ICO ; 
v.  23,  81,  146,  147,  189,  192,  193,  194, 
195,  196,  197,  198. 

Paston,  Edmund,  son  of  John,  i.  278,  279, 
288,  290,  306,  307,  308,  309,  310;  iii. 
135;  iv.  9;  V.  106-107,  115,  121-123, 
152,  177,  206,  208,  212,  215,  219,  231- 
232,  235,  270,  271,  274,  312;  vi.  17, 
18-19,  23,  24,  25,  29,  30,  39,  43-44,  44- 

45,  50,  53,  56,  70,  124,  125,  149-151, 
208  ;  Catherine,  wife  of,  widow  of 
Wm.  Clippesby,  vi.  40,  44,  50,  53, 
56. 

Paston,  Sir  Edmund,  i.  27. 

Paston,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  the  Judge, 
married  first  to  Robt.  Poynings,  after- 
wards to  Sir  Geo.  Browne  of  Betch- 
worth,  i.  77,  155-156,  205,  258-259, 
325,  327;  ii.  108-111,  300,  301,  314, 
315-316,  327-328,  331  ;  iii.  123,  134- 
135,  217,  234,  281  ;  iv.  185,  218,  308- 
310;  V.  6,  88,  123,  131  ;  vi.  86-87,  193, 
195,  196,  197,  198,  201-205  ;  Will  of, 
vi.  201-205. 

Paston,  Eleanor,  daughter  of  Sir  Wm., 
i.  26. 

Paston,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Wm.,  son 
of  the  Judge,  vi.  206. 

Paston,  Erasmus,  son  of  Sir  Wm.,  i. 
26. 

Paston,  Harry,  son  of  the  Judge,  ii.  95. 

Paston,  John,  Esq.,  son  of  the  Judge,  died 
1466,  i.  26,  29,  35,  37,  38,  39-44,  65, 
84,85,90,91-93,  113,  115,116-117,120, 
139,  141,  150,  151,  155,  157,  160,  163, 
164,  189-190,  195,  196,  197-203,  204, 
205-213,  214,  215,  216-232,  232-238, 
242,  321,  322,  339-340;  ii.  20,  40-41, 
45,  46-48,  49,  51,  55-57,  64-66,  68-69, 
69-71  [dis),  73,  74,  76-77,  79,  81,  82, 
83,  84,  87,  88,  90,  91  {bis),  92,  94,  95, 
96,  98,  99,  loi,  102,  106,  107, 108, 109, 
III,  113,  127-130  {dis),  135,  136,  137, 
138  (dis),  139  (dis),  140  {dts),  141  (5ts), 
144,  145,  146,  148,  150,  151,  153,  156, 
158,  159,  160,  163,  164,  166-167,  168- 
170,  171,  172,  173,  174,  183,  184  {dts), 
185,  186,  187,  188,  189,  191,  193,  199, 
207,  210,  216,  217  {dis),  219,  223,  225, 
226,  227,  228,  229,  233,  234,  235  {dts), 
236,  238,  239,  241,  243,  244,  245,  246, 
247,  248,  249,  250,  253,  254,  255,  256, 
258,  260,  262,  264  {dis),  266,  268,  275, 
276,  278,  281,  283,  284,  285,  286,  288, 
294  {bis),  295,  300,  301,  304,  306-307, 
308,  314,  315-316,  317,  318,  320  {dis), 
322,  323  (bis),  325,  326,  327,  328,  329, 
330,  331,  332,  333,  334;   i"-  I,  3  (^«>s"). 


GENERAL  INDEX 


5,  6,  7,  9,  lo,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16,  17  idts), 
18,  21,  22  (^w),  23,  31,  32,  34  (its),  35, 
36,  37.  38,  39,  41,  42.  45.  46-47  (^"), 
48,  SO,  51.  52,  53,  54  (*").  65,  66  (<JiV), 
67,  68,  69,  70,  71,  73,  76,  77,  78,  80, 
81,  82,  84,  86,  87,  90,  91,  93  (Hs),  94, 
95,  97,  98,  99,  100  (^V),  loi,  102,  104, 
106,  107,  109,  no,  III,  112,  113,  114, 
115,  116,  119,  120,  124,  126,  128,  129, 
131.  133. 134, 135. 136,  137,  138  (^*V), 
140,  141,  142,  144.  146,  148,  149,  150, 
151.  J'S7-i6o,  160-163,  163-166  (dis), 
189-190,  191,  193,  195,  197,  200,  201, 
202  [dis),  204,  206,  207,  208,  210,  211, 
212,  213,  216,  218-219  (^iV),  220,  222, 
223-224,  225,  226,  227,  229,  231,  233, 
235  (^^.r),  236,  238,  242,  245,  246,  247, 
249,  250,  252,  253,  254,  25s,  258,  259 
{its),  260-262,  263,  264,  266,  268,  270, 
271,  272,  274,  275,  276,  277,  279,  280, 
281,  282,  284,  285,  286,  287,  288,  289- 
290  (dh),  291,  292,  293,  294-295,  296 
{dis),  299  {its),  301,  303,  305,  308,  310, 

311,  313.  315.  317 ;  iv.  I,  4,  5.  7,  9,  10 
(dts),  II,  13,  14,  17,  18,  19,  22, 24,  26,  28, 
29. 30-31  i^is),  33,  34,  36  (h's),  37,  39, 40, 
41,  42,  45,  46  (dis),  47,  48,  50  idis),  51, 
53-56,  57,  58,  62-64,  64-65  [di's),  67,  68, 
69,  71-72  {its),  73  {dis\  74{Hs),  76,  79, 
80,  82,  83,  84,  85,  86,  87,  88,  89,  91, 92, 
93,  95,  97,  100,  101-104,  105,  107,  109- 
III,  111-113,  113-116,  I16-117  (dis), 
118,  121-126,  127,  129  (Wj),  131,  133, 
136,  141,  143,  145,  147,  150,  153,  154, 
156-158,  159,  160,  162,  164-166  {dts), 
167  (6ts),  169,  173-174,  ^74-176,  179. 
181,  181-185  (dts),  187,  188-190,  191, 
195,  196,  197,  201,  204,  206,  208,  209, 
210,  211,  213,  214,  215,  217,  219,  221, 
222,  224  {dis),  225  iter),  226,  236-245, 
246-247,  248,  254  {dis),  256,  257,  258, 
260,  268-269,  274,  275,  276,  284-286, 
289,  290  {dis),  293,  295,  302,  303 ;  V. 
II,  12,  37,  81,  119,  124,  126,  129,  141, 
192,  196,  199,  249,  295  ;  vi.  33,  45,  46, 
47,  48,  75-78,  86,  96-98,  184,  189,  194, 
195,  196,  197,  198,  199  {dis) ;  in  Parlia- 
ment, iii.  238,  243  ;  imprisoned  in  the 
Fleet,  i.  209,  210,  211,  217,  224,  227, 
228,  333;  iv.  1-2,  196;  mocking  letter 
addressed  to,  iv.  1 18-120;  accused  of 
being  a  bondman,  iv.  181  ;  rhyming 
letter  of,  iv.  190  ;  claim  of,  to  Sir  John 
Fastolfs  property,  iv.  53-56  ;  license  of, 
to  found  college  at  Caister,  iv.  113-116, 
238;  outlawry  of,  iv.  116-117;  disagree- 
ment with  his  brother  Wm. ,  iv.  223  ; 
funeral  expenses  of,  iv.  226-231,  231- 
236 ;  Mary,  cousin  of,  iv.  224 ;  date  of 


death  of,  iv.  247,  254 ;  will  of,  iv.  255, 
259;  v.  192,  199,  200,  283,  301 ;  vi.  20, 
97-98;  tomb  of,  i.  35,  268;  V.  Ill,  112, 
181,  200,  242,  245,  301,  318,  319,  323, 
324 ;  Brothers  of,  iii.  87. 
Paston,  John,  eldest  son  of  John  Paston, 
Esq.,  knighted  in  1463,  died  1479,  i.  26, 
205,  208,  209-210,  212,  213,  214,  216, 
217,  218,  221-223,  227,  238-246,  250- 
255,  256,  257-259,  260,  261,  262,  263, 
264, 265, 266, 267-270,  27 1 ,  272-277, 278, 
279,  281,  283-284,  287,  288,  290-291, 
291-298,  299,  300,  301,  302,  303-304, 
307-308,  309,  310,  311,  323,  324 ;  ii.  51, 
57,  84  ;  iii.  137,  139,  245,  246,  301-303, 
314,  315  ;  iv.  20,  26,  33,  34,  44,  45.  59f 
66,  67,  79,  81,  82,  84,  87,  90,  127,  140, 
152,  157.  159.  160,  161,  167,  168,  186, 
197-200,  204,  216,  218,  220,  246-247, 
249,  250,  251,  252,  254  {dis),  256,  257- 
258,  259,  261,  265,  267,  268,  270,  271, 
273,  275  i^i's),  277,  281,  282,  284,  287, 
288,  291,  292,  293,  294,  295,  296,  300, 
300-301,  303,  306-308  {dis) ;  v.  I,  5,  6, 
7-S{dis),  10,  12-13  (/5zj),  ^4{iis),  17,  18, 
19,  20,  21,  23,  24,  28,  29,  30,  33,  36,  37, 
40-41,  41-45  {dis),  47-49,  53-54,  56,  57, 
59,  60,  62,  63,  64,  65,  66,  68-70,  71,  72 
{dis),  74,  76  (fgr),  77  {dis),  79,  80,  81 
{dis),  84,  85,  88-91,  94,  96,  97,  99-101, 
102,  106,  107,  109-111,  111-I13,  115, 
116  (dis),  117,  118-119,  120,  122,  123 
{dis),  124,  125,  126,  127,  129,  130-131, 
132,  134,  135,  136-137,  138.  139.  141, 
143.  145,  147,  148,  149  (*w).  153.  155- 
157,  158,  160,  161-164,  165,  167,  169, 
171,  172,  173,  175-176,  177  ('^^'•r),  179- 
180,  180-183,  184-185,  186,  187-189, 
189-191,  191-193  (^").  194,  195-196, 
196-199,  200-201  {dis),  203,  206,  208, 
2og^dis),  210,  211-212,  213-214,  214- 
215,  216,  2i6-2i8,  218-219,  220,  221 
{dis),  223-225,  225-226,  230,  232,  234, 
235,  236,  237,  238,  239,  241,  242-244 
{dis),  24S-246{dis),  247, 248-250, 251, 256- 
257, 257-259  {i5/j),  260-261,  261-262,262- 
263,  270-271,  272,  273-274  {dis),  276, 
279,  280,  282-283,  284,  285-286,  287. 
288,  289-290,  291,  293-294  {dis),  296, 
304,  305,  309.  312,  313,  315,  316-317, 
318-319,  320,  323;  vi.  1-3,  12,  17,  20, 
21-22,  23,  28,  29  {dis),  30,  32,  34,  40,  74, 
76,  77, 95-98 ;  incurs  father's  displeasure, 
iii.  137,  139;  iv.  122, 131-132  ;  intended 
marriage  of  {see  Haute,  Anne) ;  will  of, 
V.  300-303 ;  vi.  39-40 ;  influence  of  at 
Court,  V.  324;  Thos.,  'child'  of,  v.  20, 
70 ;  brothers  of,  v.  42,  233,  236,  237  ; 
Constance,  natural  daughter  of,  i.  310. 

299 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Paston,  John,  younger  son  of  John  Paston, 
Esq.,  knighted  in  1487,  died  1503,  i.  26, 
214-215,  216,  228,  229-231,  239,  250- 
254,  255,  259,  260,  261,  262,  263,  264, 
264-266,  267,  268,  270,  273,  274,  27s, 
276,  278,  279-280,  286-287,  290,  291, 
294-295,  297,  300-303,  306,  307,  308, 
309-310,  311-312,  314,  315*  316,  317, 
319,  323,  324;  iii.  265-266,  318;  iv. 
41-42,  58-59,  59-61,  68,  69,  71  {bis), 
9S-97>  150-152,  I55>  159.  185-186, 
191,  192,  193,  200,  213,  221,  225, 
227,  257,  259,  265-266,  268-269,  270, 

274,  275,  275-277,  287-288,  297-299, 
306,  311;  V.  ^{bis),  9,  13,  17-18,  21- 
23,  29,  30-33  {bis),  42,  44,  45-46,  52, 
53  {bis),  55,  56  {bis),  57,  59,  60-61,  63, 
65,  66-68  {bis),  70,  72-74,  74-75,  80,  81, 
82,  84-85,  86,  88,  93,  94,  98,  99,  100, 
102-103,  106-107,  107-108,  109,  III, 
114,  115-116,  118,  121,  124,  126,  127- 
128,  131,  132-133,  134,  135,  136  {bis), 

138-139,    139-141,    142,    143-144,    145- 

147,  149-152,   153-154  {bis),  155,  158, 

159,  161,  162,  163,  164,  165-166,  169- 
170,  171-172,  172-173,  175,  176,  177 
{bis),  178,  179,  180,  184,  186,  187,  190, 
195,  196,  200,  203,  204,  205,  206-208, 
209,  210,  214,  216,  218,  223,  225,  227 
{bis),  228-229,  231,  235,  237,  238-239, 
239-240,  241-242,  245,  246,  247,  248, 
251-252,  253-255,  255-256  {bis),  257, 
258,  259,  261,  262-263,  264,  265,  266, 

267,  268,  269,  270,  271-272,  273,  274- 

275,  282J  284,  285,  286,  287,  289,  290, 
301,  307,  309-310,  311-313,  316,  320, 
321  ;  vi.  I,  4,  7,  12,  13,  17,  18,  19,  22, 
23-25,  27,  28,  28-29  {bis),  3i-33»  33-34, 
34-35,  40,  41,  51,  52,  53,  54-55  (^^'-y),  56, 
58,  60,  69,  72,  73,  75-78  {bis),  85,  86, 
87,  89,  90,  91,  92,  93,  94,  95,  96-98,  99, 
102  {bis),  103,  104,  105,  106,  107,  108, 
109,  1 10,  III,  115,  117,  120,  122,  127, 
128,  129,  131,  132,  133,  134,  135  {bis), 
138  {bis),   140,  141,  142,  143  {bis),   145, 

148,  149,  151,  153,  154,  155,  157,  159, 

160,  161,  162,  163,  164,  165,  166,  167, 
169,  170,  171,  187,  209;  writ  of  attach- 
ment against,  iv.  68  ;  marriage  projects 
of,  iv.  270;  V.  206-208,  214-215,  216- 
218,  255-256,  259  ;  '  little  man '  of,  iv. 
299  ;  appeal  of  murder  sued  against,  v. 
65,  73  ;  wounding  of,  at  Battle  of  Barnet, 
v.  99-100,  102-103;  engagement  of,  to 
Margery  Brews,  v.  264,  265,  266,  267, 

268,  269,  272,  273,  275-276,  282-283, 
284,  285-286,  288-289 ;  arrangements 
touching  settlement  of,  v.  275-276,  284, 
285-286,  290-292,  294  ;    marriage  of,  v. 

300 


307  note  I  ;  sons  of,  vi.  78  note  i ; 
books  of,  vi.  65-67. 

Paston,  John,  otherwise  called  Wortes. 
See  Wortes. 

Paston,  Margaret,  wife  of  John  (daughter 
of  John  Mauteby,  i.  39-41,  44,  1 17, 
200,  204,  207,  211,  212,  214,  217,  218- 
i2i9,  220,  222,  223,  225,  226,  227,  228, 
229-232,  240,  241,  245,  251,  256,  257, 
261-262,  266,  267,  273,  274,  278-280, 
283,  290,  293,  301-304,  305,  308,  310- 
311,  321,  322,  324;  ii.  45,  46,  49,  51, 
52,  55-57,  83,  84-87,  88,  94-96,  99-102, 
130-134,  135,  136,  147,  222,  225,  227- 
228,  228-229,  230,  234,  237,  247-248, 
250-251,  266-267,  276-277,  281-282, 
284-285,  286-287,  288-289,  300-301, 
330;  iii.  40,  52-53,  129,  138-139,  194, 
219,  223,  236,  238-240  {bis),  245-246, 
252,  255,  263  {bis),  282-283,  284,  285, 

286,  287-288,  289,  290-291,  293-294, 
296;  iv.  1-4,  4-5,  12,  13-14,  14-16,  21, 
24-26,  26-28,  33,  40-41,  61,  64,  65-67, 
69-70,  74-76,   78,   83-84,  84-86,  86-87, 

90,   105-107,  122,  127,   129-131,  I3I-I33 

{bis),  134,  136-141,  I41-142,  143-144, 
147-150,  154-156  {bis),  159,  161,  162, 
162-164  {bis),  166-167,  167-168,  169- 
172,  173,  174,  179-181,  185,  186,  188- 
191-195,  195-196,  197,  198,  199,  200, 
202,  204,  204-206,  206-207,  209,  210- 
211,  213-214,  220-222,  222-223,  225 
{bis),  247,  254-255,  256,  257  {bis),  258 
{bis),  260,  265,  271,  273,  275,  282-283, 

287,  290,  293,  295,  297;  V.  10-12,  14- 
17,  24,  26,  27,  29,  33, 36,  37-40,  42,45-47 
{bis),  57-59,  60,  61,  62,  66,  67,  69,  70, 
79,  84,  86-88,  93,  99,  102,  106,  107, 
109,  no,  115,  1 18-120,  122,  123,  124- 
125,  126-127,  129-130  {bis),  134-135, 
136,  141-143,  146-147,  153,  154-155, 
159-161  {bis),  164,  168,  169,  173-175, 
177,  179,  181,  191,  196,  197,  I99>  200, 
201,  203,  208  {bis),  209,  211,  213,  216, 
218,  220-221,  221-223,  225,  227,  228, 
230,  231,  232-234,  236,  237,  239,  241, 
246,  250,  256,  257  {bis),  260,  261,  262 
{bis),  265,  271,  275,  282,  283,  284,  285, 
288-289,  290,  293,  294-296,  311,  318, 
319,  322,  323-325  ;  vi.  6,  II,  12,  20,  21, 
27,  28,  30,  31,  34,  35,  44,  46,  54,  55, 
56  {bis),  S7,  59,  69,  70,  74,  194 ;  visit 
to  London  of,  iv.  185,  188,  191  ;  advice 
to  her  son  John  concerning  his  income, 
V.  59  ;  complaints  of  her  sons,  v.  79 ; 
desires  a  license  to  have  the  sacrament 
in  her  chapel  at  Mautby,  v.  169,  170, 
221,  227  ;  will  of,  V,  322  ;  vi.  46-53,  54; 
Death  of,  vi.  78  note  i. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Paston,  Margaret,  wife  of  Robert  of  Wivc- 
ton,  vi.  200,  200-201. 

Paston,  Margaret,  daughter  of  William, 
V.  214. 

Paston,  Margaret,  widow  of  Edmund 
(1504),  vi.  208. 

Paston,  Margery,  daughter  of  John,  i.  228, 
255-256,  310.  3"»  324;  »v.  61,  186, 
261  ;  V.  15,  88 ;  vi.  17,  52 ;  marriage 
of,  V.  21,  25,  37-40,  63;  sons  of,  i.  310; 
vi.  52. 

Paston,  Margery,  wife  of  John  Paston  the 
youngest,  v.  307-308,  310;  vi.  i,  2,  2$, 
30,  51,  54,  56-58.  58-59.  60,  78-79,  87, 
88,  90-9^  102,  103,  104,  117-119,  148; 
birth  of  her  son  Christopher,  vi.  i  ;  pil- 
grimage of,  vi.  119.  See  also  Brews, 
Margery. 

Paston,  Master,  vi.  184. 

Paston,  Richard,  son  of  John  the  younger, 
vi.  52. 

Paston,  Robt. ,  son  of  Ekimund,  vi.  50,  53, 
56. 

Paston,  Sir  Robert,  afterwards  Earl  of 
Yarmouth,  i.  25,  27. 

Paston,  Robt,  of  Wivcton,  will  of,  vi. 
199-200. 

Paston,  Robert,  son  of  Edmund,  i.  310. 

Paston,  Walter,  son  of  John,  sen.?  i.  279, 
305-306,  307,  320;  V.  146,  173-175, 
258,  319-320;  vi.  6,  11-12,  12-13,  13-14; 
18,  27-28  ;  will  of,  16-17. 

Paston,  Wm.,  of  Paston,  Norfolk,  Ser- 
geant-at-law  (1421),  Justice  of  the  Com- 
mon Pleas  (1429),  died  in  1444,  i.  26, 
28,  29,  30-37,  38,  41,  42,  318,  319,  331- 
334;  ii.  2,  II,  12-18,  19-24,  25-28,  30, 
31  {bis),  32  {bis),  33  {ter),  34,  38-39,  41- 
43,  45,  46,  48,  51  i^"),  52,  55-56,  57, 
58,  61-62,  62-63  (*»J),  64  (ter),  65-66, 
69-70,  74,  80,  234,  270;  iv.  106,  249, 
258 ;  V.  6,  249,  298,  326 ;  vi.  33-34,  76, 
77,  95-98,  188  ;  will  of,  i.  309 ;  iv.  253- 
254;  V.  116,  283,  301  ;  mem.  of  death 
and  will  of,  vi.  77,  86-87,  188-199. 

Paston,  Wm.,  son  of  the  Judge,  i.  150, 
153,  184,  190,  196,  198,  199-200,  217, 
218,  229,  246,  283,  291-293,  304,  308, 
309-310;  children  of,  i.  292;  ii.  75,  86, 
100,  106-107,  135,  286,  329-330  {bis), 
331  ;  iii.  1-3,  92,  95,  96,  136,  191-192, 
204-205,  206,  209,  213,  214,  216-218, 
226,  229,  248,  266-267,  271,  278,  284, 
285  ;  iv.  3,  40,  48-49,  90,  105,  127,  168, 
188,  219,  223,  227,  234,  246,  247,  248, 
250,  251,  252,  253,  255,  259,  272,  273- 
275,  281,  292,  299,  304;  V.  10,  II,  19 
{bis),  25,  30,  32,  63,  66,  75,  82,  94,  98, 
117,  138,  140,  146,  148,  155,   160,  163, 


189,  192,  195,  202,  208  (bis),  209  {bis), 
209-210  (^i>),  211,  214,  220,  221,  222, 
223,  225,  226,  227,  230-231,  233,  234, 
237,  244,  24s,  260,  30s  ;  vi.  I,  3  {bis), 
5  note  I,  14,  14-15,  1516,  17-18  {bis), 
19  (bis),  20,  22,  23,  24,  26,  30,  31,  32. 
3^,  40.41  (bis),  57,  59,  60,  61-64,  75. 
78,95-98,  107,  113,  114,  145,  148-149, 
158,  19?,  195,  196,  197,  198,  205-207. 

Paston,  Sir  Wm.,  i.  26,  27. 

Paston,  Wm.,  son  of  John  the  eldest,  i. 
306-307,  314,  315,  319;  V.  295,  303; 
vi.  4-5,  7-8,  39-40,  43,  51.  53,  111-112, 
120-122,  123,  127,  129-131,  143-14^, 
146,  166,  186;  becomes  'erased  in 
mind,'  vi.  167. 

Paston,  Wm. ,  son  of  Sir  John  the  younger, 
i-  303,  310;  vi.  52,  157,  170,  171,  172, 
186. 

Paston,  Wm.,  second  Earl  of  Yarmouth,  i. 
27-28. 

Paston,  Arms  of,  ii.  92. 

Patents,  Validity  of,  iv.  218. 

Paternoster,  Thos.,  iii.  237. 

*  Paternoster  while,'  a,  ii.  89. 

Paternosters.     Beads,  vi.  176. 

Patgrys,  John,  vi.  192,  195. 

Patgrys,  Robt.,  ii.  214. 

Pattesley,  Norfolk,  ii.  214. 

Paulett,  Sir  Ameas,  vi.  187. 

Pavises.     Large  shields,  ii.  128. 

Paxbred,  iii.  172  and  note  i. 

Payn,  John,  Servant  of  Sir  J.  Fastolf,  i. 

77-78.  334-335;  ".  153-156;  iv.  211. 
Payne,  John,  ii.  3. 

Paynter, ,  iv.  144. 

Paytrell,  vi.  178. 
Peche,  Sir  Wm. ,  iv.  60. 
Pecke,  Thos.,  Clerk,  ii.  11. 
Peckhalle,  Tittleshall,  Norfolk,  ii.  21. 
Pecock,  Reginald,  Bishop  of  Chichester,  i. 

175. 
Pecock,  Thos.,  servant  to  Sir  John  Paston, 
iii.  302,  303,  304;  iv.  79,  123,  124,  131, 
295;    V.  49,  146,  149,  153,   174,  203, 
222,  295,  310,  315,  323,  324;  vi.  21,  24, 

33- 
Pecock,  Wm.,  i.   279;    iv.  230;    v.  117, 

233,  304-306,  306-307. 
Pedham  Hall,  Beyton,  v.  136. 
Pekeryne.     See  Pickering. 
Pembroke,  Earls  of.      See  Herbert,   Sir 

Wm. ;  Tudor,  Jasper. 
Penennec,  Henry,  vi.  185. 
Penteney,  Priors  of,  ii.  39,  233  ;   Richard, 

ii.  233. 
Penteney,  John  de  Tyrington,  ii.  232. 
Peny,  Wm.,  iv.,  306. 
Penycock,  John,  ii.  175. 

301 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Pepper,  v.  119. 

Peraunte, ,  v.  189;  wife  of,  v.  163. 

Percy,  Henry,  Lord,  iv.  190,  196 ;  v.  80  ; 
restored  to  Earldom  of  Northumberland 
(1470),  V.  71.  See  also  Northumberland, 
Henry,  fourth  Earl  of,  and  Perse,  — . 

Percy,  Henry,  Lord,  son  of  preceding,  i. 
228. 

Percy,  Ralph,  iii.  29. 

Perers,  France,  ii.  7. 

Perigord,  i.  122. 

Peris.     See  Perse. 

Perker.     See  Parker. 

Perpoynt, ,  ii.  216. 

Perse, ,  i.  309 ;  v.  32. 

Perse, ,  Friar,  v.  312. 

Perse,  Edmond,  ii.  257 ;  v.  307. 

Perse  (Piers,  Pers,  Peris,  Perys),  J.,  a 
servant,  first  of  John  Berney,  afterwards 
of  the  Paston  family,  i.  309 ;  iii.  240 
{bis)y  241-242,  283;  iv.  26-27;  V.  155, 
304  ;  vi.  30.     See  also  Perys. 

Perse.     Sky  blue,  or  bluish  grey,  ii.  155. 

Persoun, ,  ii.  323. 

Pertrych, ,  ii.  93,  III,  1 1 2. 

Pertryche,  Alson,  ii.  95. 

Perys.     See  also  Perse. 

Peschere,  France,  ii.  7. 

Pesemerche, ,  ii.  115,  1 16. 

Pestilence,  iii.  1-2  ;  iv.  180,  209. 

Petche,  Jone,  ii.  229. 

Peterborough,  i.  116. 

Peterfeld,  iii.  32. 

Petham,  Alice,  vi.  209. 

Peverel,  Eliz.,  v.  308. 

Pewter  vessels,  iv.  14. 

Phelip.     See  Philip. 

Philip  the  Good,  Duke  of  Burgundy  (141 9- 
67),  i-  89,  95.  106 ;    ii.  205,  299,  321  ; 

iv.  35.  93.  277- 
Philip  the  Fair,  Duke  of  Burgundy  (1482- 

1506),  King  of  Castile  (1504-6),  i.  317  ; 

vi.  Ill,  172,  173.  174- 
Philip  (Phelip),  Sir  Wm. ,  Knight,  ii.  14. 

See  also  Bardolf,  I^ord. 
Philip,  Mr.     See  Lipgate. 
Philip,  Thos.,  iii.  307. 

Philpot  (Fylpot), ,  iii.  245. 

Physicians,  warning  against,  iv.  106. 
Picard,  the  Baker,  i.  267  ;  v.  119. 
Picardy,  i.  294 ;  v.  224,  279. 
Pickenham,  Norfolk,  ii.  175 ;  v.  167. 
Pickenham  (Pykenham),  Dr.  Wm.,  i.  305, 

306;    v.  38  note  I,  66,  201,  311,  312, 

313,  318;  vi.  6-7. 
Pickering   (Pykering),   ,   ii.   192 ;    v. 

125. 
Pickering,  Sir  Edward,  vi.  102,  187. 
Pickering,  John,  iv.  178,  238;  v.  306. 

302 


Pickering,  Nich.,  ii.  65,  67,  68,  91;  iv. 

84*  177.  178;   vi.  171  ;    Alson,  wife  of, 

iv.  178. 
Pickering,  Rauly,  ii.  104. 
Pickering,  Thos.,  iv.  236,  242,  284. 
Pickering,  Sir  Thos. ,  iiL  249. 
Pickering,  Wm.,  iv.  154,  177,  178,  238, 

239,  242  ;  v.  303. 
Pickworth  (Pykeworth),  Rutland,  iv.  30. 
Piers.     See  Perse. 
Pigot  (Pygot),  Rich.,  Sergeant-at-law,  i. 

298 ;  iv.  88  ;  v.  120 ;  vi.  74. 
Pilgrims  and  Pilgrimages,  ii.  135  ;  v.  112. 
Pilkington,  John,  v.  85  ;  Sir  John,  v.  105. 
Pinchebeck,  Dr.,  iii.  196. 
Pinkie,  Battle  of,  i.  26. 
Pitte,  W.,  V.  152,  187,  189,  190,  207,  251. 
Pius  II.,  Pope,  i.  186. 
Plague.     Su  Pestilence. 
Plaiter.     See  Playter. 
Plattyng,  Kothye,  v.  187,  189. 
Plattyng,  Stephen,  ii.  54. 
Plattyng,  T.,  v.  152,  185. 
Plowing^  iv.  202. 
Plawnchcr.     Floor,  ii.  lOl. 

Plays, ,  iv.  249. 

Playter,  Richard,  iv.  216. 

Playter,  Thos.,  ii.  328-329;  iii.  96,  198, 

212,  235-236  {bis),  238,  239,  245,  248, 

266-267, 268-269, 270-271,  276-277,  296, 

298,  299,  304 ;   iv.  2,  3,  4,  5,  19-20,  27, 

50  {bis\  51,  60,  66,  67-68,  87,  197,  221, 

227,234;  V.   125,  134,  177,   181,  191, 

192,  210,  225,  310;  vi.  108. 

Plomer, ,  i.  1*98  ;  iii.  191. 

Plummer,  Thos.,  iv.  232,  233,  234,  235, 

244,  245. 
Plumstead,  Norfolk,  i.  332,  333  ;   ii.  214, 

269,  310;  iii.  279. 
Plumstead    (Plumbsted,    or    Plumpsted), 

,  ii.  145,  181. 

Plumstede,  Wm.,  ii.  158. 

Plumton, ,  the  carter,  iii.  263. 

Poiness, ,  vi.  31. 

Poitiers,  i.  122. 
Pokethorpe.     See  Norwich. 
Pole  (Pool),  Lady,  iii.  123,  136. 

Pole, ,  iv.  157. 

Pole,  Lodowick  of,  iii.  44. 

Pole  (Pool,  or  de  la  Pole),  Family  of,  i. 

223  ;  iii.  132  ;  iv.  157,  165,  166,  280. 
Pole,  John  de  la,  son  of  Wm.,  Duke  of 

Suffolk,  afterwards  Duke  of  Suffolk,  i. 

61.     See  also  Suffolk,  John,  Duke  of. 
Pole,  W.  de  la,  Duke  of  Suffolk.      See 

Suffolk. 
Poleaxes  (pelleaxis),  ii.  lOl. 

Poley, ,  iii.  84. 

Poleyn,  John,  v.  6. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Polronds.     Shoulder  pieces,  iv.  142. 
Pomfret  (Pontefract),  Yorks,  i.  150,  193; 

V.  85. 
Pont  Audemer  (Pountedomer),  Normandy, 

i.  56 ;  ii.  6. 
Pont  de  I'Arche,  i.  54,  55,  105  ;  ii.  6. 
Pont  Meulant,  iii.  62. 
Ponte,  Thos.,  iv.  148. 
Pontorson,  i.  52. 
Ponyant  (Pounyant),  Wm.  and  Claricia,  ii. 

54-55- 
Ponynges.     See  Poynings. 

Pool.     See  also  Pole. 

Pool,  John,  sen. ,  v.  305. 

Poole,  Geoffrey,  ii.  298. 

Poole,  Sir  Richard,  vi.  187. 

Poole,  Sir  Thos.,  vi.  187. 

Poole,  Wm.,  i.  223. 

Pope,  Master,  ii.  149. 

Pope,  Wm.,  of  Bacton,  vi.  3. 

Pope,  Wm.,  perpetual  Vicar  of  Paston,  ii. 

80,  244. 
Popy,  Robt.,  iii.  80,  145,  166;   iv.  102, 

103,  106,  125,  152,  239,  240;  V.  146, 

322. 

Porter, ,  v.  282. 

Porter,  Grene,  iv.  205,  206. 

Porter,  Harry,  iv.  130. 

Porter,  John  or  Jankyn,  ii.  334,  335  ;    iii. 

6,  II,  21,22,  35. 
Porter,  John,  of  Blickling,  ii.  145-146,  214. 
Porter,  Robt.,  v.  95. 
Porter,  Thos. ,  Sheriff  of  Warwickshire,  ii. 

90. 
Porter,  Sir  Wm.,ii.  8. 
Portington,  John,  Justice  of  the  Common 

Pleas,  ii.  321. 
Portland,  ii.  104 ;  v.  144. 
Portsmouth,  i.  75  ;  vi.  118. 
Portugal,  i.  263  ;  v.  no,  128,  131. 
Postwick   (Possewyke),   Norfolk,   i.    114, 

115  ;  ii.  264,  271,  312  ;  iii.  194. 

Potter, ,  man  of  law,  vi.  209. 

Pounyant.     See  Ponyant. 

Poutrell  (Powtrell), ,  iii.  270,  276. 

Powys,  Lord,  iii.  199. 

Poye,  Thos. ,  i.  39. 

Poynings,  Henry  Percy,  Lord,  eldest  son 

of  Henry,  second  Earl  of  Northumber- 
land, i.  134  ;  ii.  296. 
Poynings,  Sir  Edward,  brother-in-law  of 

Eliz.  Poynings  (or  Paston),  iv.  309,  310, 

311- 

Poynings,  Edward,  afterwards  Sir  Edw., 
son  of  Eliz.,  iv.  309,  310 ;  vi.  204,  205, 
207. 

Poynings,  Elizabeth.     See  Paston,  Eliz. 

Poynings,  Dame  Isabel,  wife  of  the  later 
Sir  Edw.,  vi.  204,  205. 


Poynings,  Master,  iii.  52,  271. 

Poynings,  Robt.,  i.  77,  126,  156,  190,  205  ; 

ii.  154,  155,  324;  iii.  135,  226,  234,  308, 

309,  310. 
Prenting,  John,  iii.  309. 
Prentis  (Pryntys), ,  ii.  158,  175,  177, 

182,  193,  211,  214,  227. 
Prentys,  John,  ii.  32  ;  iv.  70,  286. 
Prentys,  Wm.,  ii.  113. 
•Pretend  it  in  your  mind,'  i.e.^  hold  it 

before  your  mind  (Lat.  prcetendere)^  v. 

37. 
Pressigny,  Bertrand,  Lord  of,  ii.  121,  124. 
Prestis.     Borrowings,  iv.  123. 
Prewett  (Prowett), ,  iv.  79,  229  ;   vi. 

198. 
Price,  Wm.,  Under  Sheriff  of  Norfolk,  iii. 

36. 
Priors'  Manor,  v.  244. 
Prisot,  John,  Chief  Justice  of  the  Common 

Pleas,  i.  90,  91  ;   ii.  145,  233,  238,  239, 

240,  321,  329. 
Privy  Seal,  My  Lord,  iii.  53. 
Prymer,  Robt. ,  iii.  264. 
Pryntys.     See  Prentis. 
Prysot.     See  Prisot. 

Pulford, ,  i.  81. 

Pulham,  Rector  of  (T.  Howes),  iv.  231. 
Pulton,  Richard,  iv.  280. 
Pulyston,  Roger,  iv.  96. 
Punche,  a  messenger,  v.  205,  206. 
Punsborne  (Pamsborowe),  Herts,  vi.  157. 
Punyant,  Wm.  and  Claricia,  ii.  54-55. 

Purdy, ,  V.  103,  108. 

Purfeled.     Edged,  trimmed,  iv.  262. 

Purpeynt,  Sir  Harry,  v.  105. 

Purry,  ,  ii.   loi,   102,  131,  133;    vi. 

179. 
Pye,  Henry,  1.  332. 
Pygot.     See  Pigot. 
Pykenham.     See  Pickenham. 
Pykerell,  John,  iv.  290. 
Pykeworth.     See  Pickworth. 
Pympe,  John,  v.  276-279,  279-280,   280- 

282. 
Pynchemore  (Pynchamour),  i.  220 ;  ii.  162, 

278;  iv.  144. 
Pynchester,  iv.  267. 
Pyrenees,  The,  i.  95. 
Pyrke,  John,  Rector  of  SS.  Michael  and 

Peter,  Long  Stratton,  vi.  199. 
Pyssaunce.     Puissance  or  forces,  iv.  32. 
Pyte,  a  *lyster'  or  dyer,  ii.  247. 

Quale  (Qwale),  John,  v.  209. 

Quarrels  or  Quarreaux.    Square  pyramids 

of  iron  shot  from  crossbows,  ii.  loi. 
Queenborough  Castle,  i.  74. 
Queue.     A  harlot,  v.  231. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Queries, ,  ii.  lOi,  102. 

Quotton.     See  Cotton. 
Qwharteyn.     See  Wharton. 

R.  B.,  vi.  60-61. 

Rabbes,  Wm.,  iv.  267. 

Rabekyn,  v.  176. 

Rackheath  (Rakheth),  Norfolk,  ii.  326. 

Radcliff.     See  also  Ratclifif. 

Radcliff,  ,  iii.  3,  35,  135,  196;  iv.  21. 

RadclifF,  Cecily,  wife  of  Sir  John,  iii.  157. 
Radcliff  (Ratclift),  Jas.,  of  Billingford,  iv. 

225  ;  V.  95  ;  vi.  133. 
Radcliff,  Sir  Jas.,  vi.  29. 
Radcliff,  John,  iii.  66. 
Radcliff,  Sir  John,  iii.  156. 
Radcliff,  John,   of   Attleborough,   called 

Lord  Fitzwalter  {ob.  1461),  iii.  80,  210, 

249,  267. 
Radcliff,    John,   of   Attleborough,    Lord 

Fitzwalter  (1485-93),  iv.   214;    v.   94; 

vi.  19,  87,  88,  94,  99,  109,  no,  133. 
Radcliff,  Rich.,  vi.  72. 
Radcliff,  Sir  Rich.,  v.  105. 
Radcliff,  Robt.,  iv.  215,  225  ;  v.  137  ;  vi. 

102. 
Radford,  Nich.,  of  Upcott,   Devonshire, 

iii.  49. 
Radford.     See  also  Ratford. 

Raffman, ,  iii.  181. 

Radley,   Rich.,   v.    115,    123,    198,    248, 

249. 
Raisins.  Price  of,  iii.  126. 
Raisins  of  Corons,  v.  120. 
Rakesond,  John,  son  of  Geoffrey,  ii.  39. 
Ram,  Adam,  ii.  53. 

Ramesey, ,  vi.  167. 

Rammesbury, ,  iv.  258. 

Randolff, ,  ii.  91. 

Ranson  (Rauson?),  Robt.,  iv.  144. 

Ranworth,  Norfolk,  iii.  237. 

Ratcliff.     See  also  Radcliff. 

Ratcliff,  Jas. ,  iii.  274. 

Ratcliff,  John,  son  of  Hodge  or  Roger,  i. 

114;  ii.  267,  271,  274,  308,  310. 
Ratcliff,  Sir  Robt.,  vi.  187. 
Ratcliff,  Thos.,  iii.  259. 
Ratford,  Sir  Harry,  iii.  233. 
Rauf,   Sir,   Parson  of  Burnham,  i.   331, 

332- 

Raufman, ,  ii.  115. 

Raulyns, ,  ii.  240 ;  iii.  93,  99. 

Raulyns,  John,  iii.  30. 

Rauson  (Ranson),  Robt.,  iv.  144. 

Ravensbye, ,  iv.  279. 

Rawlyn,  Richard,  v.  81. 

Rayle,  Walter,  i.  136. 

Reading,  i.  127,  129,  136,  138,  278,  333 ; 

iv.  116,  117. 


Recheforthe  (Rycheferthe),  Master,  ii.  106. 

Recheman,  ,  iii.  217. 

Rede,  Bartholomew,  Mayor  of  London  in 

1502,  vi.  n. 
Rede,  John,  iii.  113. 
Rede,  Laurence,  ii.  85,  91,  92. 
Rede,  Richard,  ii.  82. 
Redeham.     See  Reedham. 

Redford, ,  v.  114. 

Redmill,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  187. 

Redriff.     See  Rotherhithe. 

Red  we,  John,  v.  254. 

Ree,  Roger,  Sheriff  of  Norfolk,  iv.  307 ; 

V.  24,  34. 
Ree,  Sir  Roger,  v.  105. 
Reed  Clyf,  ii.  18. 

Reede, ,  vi.  11,  206. 

Reede,  Edmund,  v.  212. 

Reedham  (Redham),  Norfolk,  i.  39,  298  ; 

iv.  230 ;  vi.  48. 
Reedhams,  in  Caister,  iv.  109,  289,  292  ; 

V.  77,  94 ;  vi.  74. 
Rees,  Stratton,  iv.  18 ;  v.  7. 
Regestre,  Robt.,  iii.  237. 
Rtgimine  Principum  de^  v.  3.     See  Lyd- 

gate. 
Reggisley,  iv.  289. 
Regmayde,  Wm.,  iii.  30. 
Regyll,  Castle,  France,  ii.  6. 
Remond  (Reymond),  Guillaume,  iii.  58 

64. 
Rendlesham,  Suffolk,  iii.  141. 
Ren^,  King,  Father  of  Margaret  of  Anjou, 

i.  45.  50»  57- 

Rennes,  Brittany,  vi.  127. 

Renold, ,  vi.  132. 

Reppes  (Reppys), ,  ii.  193,  235. 

Reppes,  John,  Laurence,  Ralph,  Roger, 
and  Wm.  de,  ii.  2. 

Reppes,  Robt.,  ii.  46-48,  247,  258. 

Repps,  Manor  of,  ii.  4  ;  iv.  109,  289,  292  ; 
V.  76,  94. 

Reston,  vi.  193. 

Rere.     To  raise,  iv.  93. 

Reskuse.     Rescue,  iv.  24,  25  ;  v.  47,  49. 

Retford,  John,  *  late  Coubitt,'  iii.  307. 

Reve,  Alex.,  ii.  215. 

Reymond.     See  Remond. 

Reynalds, ,  ii.  244. 

Reyner,  John,  ii.  264. 

Reynforth,  Constance,  v.  315-316. 

Reynolds,  Wm.,  ii.  292-293;  iv.  229. 

Reynthorpe,  iv.  258. 

Rhenish  wine,  vi.  132. 

Richard,  Cceur  de  Lion,  Book  about,  vi. 
65. 

Richard,  son  of  Richard,  Duke  of  York, 
created  Duke  of  Gloucester  (1461),  be- 
came King  as  Richard  iii.  (1483),  i.  209, 


GENERAL  INDEX 


245,  271-272,  281,  311,  322;  iii.  233, 
310;  V.  31,  32,  62,  135,  136,  195,  199, 
202,  270;  vi.  71-72,  85;  proclamation 
of,  81-84. 

Richard,  a  servant  of  Howes,  Parson  of 

Blofield,  iii.  97,  116  ;  iv.  173. 
Richard,  a  servant  of  John  Paston,  ii.  287; 

V.  251. 
Richard  of  Wardrobe,  ii.  299. 
Richard,  Sir,  vi.  38. 
Richardson,  Richard,  vi.  17. 
Richford.     See  Recheforth. 
Richmond,  Surrey,  vi.  161. 
Richmond,  Yorkshire,  Archdeacon  of,  ii. 

158.     See  also  Urswick,  Christopher. 
Richmond,  Earl  of.     See  Tudor,  Edmund, 

and  Henry  vii. 
Richmond,  Margaret,  Countess  of,  mother 

of  Henry  vii.,  vi.  115  note  2,  158. 
Richmond,  Master,  iv.  226,  268. 
Ridlingfeld,  ii.  149,  160,  170,  171. 
Riot  during  Mass,  iv.  24. 

Rippingale,  ,  vi.  36. 

Rising,  Norfolk,  ii.  137. 

Rising,  Castle,  iii.  53,  133,  266 ;   iv.  28, 

37,  68. 

Rising, ,  IV.  9,  69-70 ;  v.  145. 

Rising,  John,  of  Fritton,  i.  240;   iv.  89, 

145-146,  151,  153-154,  156,  282;  wife 

of,  iv.  192. 
Rising  (Rysyng),  Wm.,  iii.  237. 
Riston.     See  Ruston. 
Rither,  Sir  Ralph,  vi.  152. 
Rivers,  Lord.     See  Woodville,  Richard. 
Robert,  Sir,  vi.  209. 
Robin  of  Redesdale,    Insurrection  of,  i. 

246,  248-250,  257. 
Robinson,  John,  ii.  19  ;  iv.  286. 
Robsart,  Perceval,  vi.  66. 

Robsart,  Sir  Terry,  v.  105,  280,  298 ;  vi. 
145-146. 

Robson, ,  ii.  200,  208. 

Robyn,  a  servant,  v.  37,  49,  57. 

Robyns,  John,  ii.  227. 

Roche,  Anthony,  Count  de  la.  See  Bur- 
gundy, Bastard  of. 

Roche-Guyon,  i.  56. 

Rochelle,  i.  283. 

Rochester,  i.  74,  75,  87  ;  ii.  162;  iii.  115. 

Rochester,  John  Langdon,  Bishop  of,  ii. 

38. 
Rochester,  John  Lowe,  Bishop  of,  1.  78. 
Rockland   Tofts,   Norfolk,   ii.    212,   269, 

282. 
Rodon.     See  Rothan. 
Roger,  Master,  iv.  84;  v.  122,  135. 
Roger,  Richard,  iv.  280. 
Rogers,  Robt. ,  Parson  of  Thorpe,  ii.  96. 
Rokesty  (Sir?),  Robt.,  iii.  241. 

VOL.  VI. U 


Rokesley,  Kent,  iv.  309. 

Rokewode, ,  iii.  92. 

Rokewode,  Wm,,  i.   190;    ii.  261,  308; 

iii.  226,  237,  238,  248,  288  {bis)f  289, 

291. 
Rokkysson,  James,  ii.  93. 
Rollesby,  Norfolk,  v.  67. 
Rome,  i.  1 10,  299 ;  iv.  6,  7 ;  v.  258  ;  vi. 

34,  35- 
Rome,  Court  of,  i.  33,  269;  ii.  21,  22,  26, 

27,  29,  96,  97 ;    dispensation  from,  v. 

198,  216  ;  pardon  from,  iv.  231. 
Romgey,  ii.  271. 

Rondelle,  Martin,  i.  281  ;  v.  193-194. 
Ronhale,  Margaret,  vi.  60. 
Roon.     See  Rouen. 
Roos,  Aleyn,  iii.  286 ;  iv.  258. 
Roos,  John,  eighth  Lord  (1414-21),  ii.  8. 
Roos,  Thos.,  tenth  Lord  (1431-61),  ii.  173; 

iii.  25,  29,  196,  204,  241,  267,  307. 
Roos,  Lady,  iii.  93 ;  vi.  106. 
Roos,  Sir  Henry,  iii.  307. 
Roos,  Mr.,  V.  33,  88,  89,  90,  160.    .  1 
Roos,  Sir  Thos.,  i.  49,  182. 
Roper's  Manor,  Cromer,  iv.  251. 
Roppys,  John,  i.  331,  332. 
Rose,  Sir  John,  Canon  of  Ixworth,  iv.  73. 
Rose,  Mrs. ,  iv.  289. 
Rostock,  Baltic  port,  ii.  104. 
Rothan  (Rodon),  Jane,  y.  151,  158,  162; 

vi.  29. 
Rothenhale,  Sir  John,  i.  31. 
Rothenhale,  Eliz.,  widow  of  Sir  John,  ii. 

29,  30,  39- 

Rotherfield  Gray,  Oxfordshire,  iii.  143. 

Rotherham,  Thos.,  Bishop  of  Lincoln 
(1472-80),  Archbishop  of  York  (1480- 
1500),  V.  235;  vi.  107,  118.  See  cor- 
rection in  vol.  i.  page  340. 

Rotherhithe  (Redriff,  Redre),  iii.  234. 

Rothewell,  Master,  iv.  iii. 

Rothnall  Hall,  iii.  264. 

Rotty.     See  Rutty. 

Rouen  (Roan,  Roon),  Normandy,  i.  51, 
56,  57,  66,  67,  105,  106 ;  ii.  6,  116;  iii. 
63  ;  siege  of,  by  Henry  v.,  i.  119 ;  ii.  8. 

Rough,  Robt.,  iv.  93. 

Rougham,  Norfolk,  ii.  209,  211. 

Rous  (Rowse),  Family  of,  iv.  22. 

Rous, ,  V.  187  ;  vi.  39. 

Rous,  Edmund,  iv.  22-23. 

Rous,  Eustace,  vi.  75,  192,  195. 

Rous,  Reginald,  of  Dennington,  i.  337  ; 
ii.  48  ;  iv.  107. 

Rous,  Reynold,  ii.  307. 

Routon(  Rowton),  Norfolk,  ii.  220,  221  ; 
V.  299. 

Rowe,  John,  vi.  137. 

Rowneham.     See  Runham. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Rowse.     See  Rous. 

Roydon,  Norfolk,  ii.  173,  176. 

Roys, ,  ii.  188. 

Roys,  John,  ii.  33,  41-43- 

Roys,  W.,  ii.  42. 

Royston,  Herts,  i.  159;  iv.  125;  vi.  80, 

195. 

Roxburgh,  i.  193. 

Rugge,  John,  iv.  237,  243,  244,  284. 

Rumbold,  Piers,  vi.  80. 

Runham  (Rowneham),  Norfolk,  iv.  109, 
292 ;  V.  76,  94,  233,  234,  283 ;  vi.  40. 

Runton  (Runeton),  Norfolk,  i.  254 ;  iv. 
215 ;  v.  64. 

Russe,  John,  iii.  37,  90,  93,  no,  219,  298, 
299-300,  304;  iv.  3,  9»  37-38,  47-48,  51- 
52,  57-58,  70,  71,  102,  103,  104,  106, 
130,  133-136,  140,  173,  174  ^bis),  175, 
176,  180,  183,  237,  238,  239,  240,  241, 
242,  243,  244,  257,  260-261,  268,  285, 
294;  V.  150,  180,  181,  306;  vi.  17,  18. 

Rust,  Wm.,  iv.  214. 

Rusteynes,  Wymondham,  iv.  258. 

Ruston  (Riston),  Norfolk,  iv.  85  ;  v.  299 ; 
vi.  190. 

Ruthin.     See  Grey,  Edmund,  Lord. 

Rutland,  Edmund,  Earl  of,  son  of  Richard, 
Duke  of  York,  i.  148-149,  182,  193-194; 
iii.  199. 

Rutland,  Thos.  Manners,  first  Earl  of, 
i.  26. 

Rutt,  Wm.,  ii.  136. 

Rutty  (Rotty),  Thos.,  vi.  166. 

Ryburgh,  Norfolk,  vi.  114,  115. 

Rycheferthe.     See  Recheforthe. 

Rycheman,  John,  ii.  292. 

Rychers,  John,  ii.  65. 

Rydon,  ii.  176. 

Rye,  Herts,  iii.  32. 

Rysebank,  Tower  of,  i.  185. 

Ryveers  Castle,  France,  ii.  6. 


Sabacotys,  Sir  John,  vi.  187. 

Sacring  (Sakeryng).     A  religious  service, 

the  mass,  ii.  244. 
Sadde,  Hugo,  ii.  265. 
Sadler,  John,  iii.  67  ;  iv.  46. 
Sadler  (Sadiller),  Simon,  vi.  179. 
Saham,  ii.  217. 
St.  Alban's,  i.  116,  178;  ii.  175;  iii.  33; 

iv.  50. 
St.  Alban's,  Battle  of,  i.  160-161,  165,  167, 

169,  177  ;  iii-  25-29,  29-30,  31,  44- 
St.    Alban's,   Second  Battle  of,  iii.  274, 

282,  309. 
St.  Alban's,  St.  Peter's  in,  i.  161. 
St.  Benet's,  Norfolk,  ii.  109.     See  Hulme. 
St.  Blankheare  (Blankard),  Baron  de,  i.  26. 


306 


St.  Brieux  (Bryak),  Brittany,  vi.  126. 

St.  Catherine's,  Rouen,  Abbey  of,  ii.  8. 

St.  David's,  Bishop  of,  i.  336. 

St.  Denis,  France,  ii.  7. 

St.  Edmund's,  Parson  of,  ii.  278. 

St.  Faith's  Priory,  Norfolk,  ii.  251  ;  vi.  45; 

Prior  of,  ii.  39 ;  iv.  241. 
St.  Germain's,  France,  ii.  7. 
St.  Gilerinz,  France,  ii.  7. 
St.  Imain's,  France,  ii.  7. 
St.  Jacques  de  Beuvron  (Beueron),  France, 

i.  52,  104  ;  ii.  5. 
St.  Jacques  de  Burvam,  France,  ii.  5. 
St.  James'  Bee,  Bristol,  i.  152. 
St.  James'  Hospital,  Westminster,  iii.  44. 
St.  James',  Spain.     See  Compostella. 
St.  Johan  dit  Dolot,  Johan  de,  ii.  50. 
St.  John,  Master,  vi.  173. 
St.  John's,  Priors  of.     Set  Botill,  Robt.  j 

Kendal,  Sir  John. 

St.  Leger  (Selenger), ,  v.  69. 

St.  Leonard's  (Levenard),  Norwich.      See 

under  Norwich. 
St.  Lo,  ii.  5. 

Saintlow,  Giles,  iii.  252,  307. 
Saintlow,  Sir  John,  v.  105. 
St.  Michael's  Mount,  Cornwall,  i.  281-282; 

V.  203. 
St.  Olave's,  Suffolk,  ii.  4;  iii.  142  ;  iv.  51, 

192,  193. 
St.  Omer,  v.  191,  296,  297. 
St.  Osith's,  Essex,  i.  281  ;  v.  188. 
St.  Paul  de  Lyon,  vi.  126. 
St.  Pierre  suz  Dive,  Normandy,  ii.  6. 
St.  Quentin,  v.  287. 
St.  Romains,  Plaine,  France,  ii.  7. 
St.  Sauveur  de  Vive  (le  Vicomte  ?),  ii.  5. 
St.  Sauveur  suz  Dive,  ii.  6. 
St.  Severin,  France,  Dean  of,  iii.  312, 
St.  Wallrens  (St.   Vallery?),  Normandy, 

vi.  154. 
Saintonge,  i.  122. 
Sak  (?),  John,  iii.  157. 
Sakeryng.     See  Sacring. 
Sale,  Peryn,  iv.  306. 
Salet  (Solatt),  John,  i.  304  ;    iii.  287  ;   iv. 

160,  177,  187,  193,  194,  195 ;  vi.  2. 
Salettes.     Helmets,  ii.  128. 
Salisbury  (Sarum),  i.  43,  75,  179,  180  ;  ii. 

127 ;  iii.  48  ;  iv.  7,  220  ;  v.  7. 
Salisbury  (Salesbury),  ii.  173. 
Salisbury,  Thos.   de   Montacute,  Earl  of 

(1409-28),  ii.  8,  44. 
Salisbury,  Richard  Nevill,  Earl  of  (1442- 

60),   Lord  Chancellor  (1454-5),   i.  99, 

131,  147,  158,  159,  161,  163,  176,  177, 

178,  179,  180,  182,  184,  187-188,  193, 

336  {bis) ',    ii.  297,  321,  328 ;    iii.  2,  25, 

27,  28,  30,  32,  44,  50,  74,  92,  121-122, 


GENERAL  INDEX 


125,  196,  199,  204,   221-222,   226,    234; 

iv.  232. 
Salisbury,  Alice,  Countess  of,  wife  of  the 

preceding,  iii.  199, 
Salisbury,  Bishop  of,  *  inn  *  or  town  house 

in  London,  iii.  48. 
Sail,  Norfolk,  ii.  51,  2CX),  20I,  211,  225; 

iv.  258 ;  V.  288,  290. 
Sail,  Norfolk,  Parson  of,  iv.  169. 
Salle,  Robt.,  vi.  69. 
Salle,  Sir  Robt.,  Knight,  vi.  190,  191. 
Salr  (?),  Osbert,  ii.  3. 

Salter, ,  v.  244,  245. 

Salthouse,  Norfolk,  vi.  201. 

Sammys, ,  iv.  10. 

Sampson,  J.,  son  and  heir  of,  iii.  96. 

Sampson,  Mr.,  vi.  121. 

Sandal  Castle,  Yorkshire,  i.  171,  193 ;  ii. 

332  ;  iii.  86,  92. 
Sandall,  Sir  Wm.,  v.  105. 
Sandes,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  102,  187. 
Sandford,  Francis,  i.  25. 
Sandwich,  i.  109,  174,  184,  185,  187,  337  ; 

iii.  118,  203,  204;  iv.  33;  vi.  153. 

Sandys, ,  v.  121. 

Sanitary  conditions    in    time    of    Paston 

Letters,  i.  322. 
Sapcotes,  Sir  John,  vi.  102. 
Saracens,  i.  263  ;  v.  128. 
Saresson,  Dr.  John,  Chancellor  to  Bishop 

of  Norwich,  v.  38  note  i. 
Sarsenet,  price  of,  iv.  287. 
Sarum.     Seg  Salisbury. 

Saunders, ,  v.  168. 

Saundes,  Sir  John,  v.  105. 
Saundre.     See  Kok. 
Saunpere,  Jenyn,  iv.  279. 
Savage,  Martin,  iv.  228. 
Savage,  Sir  Humfrey,  vi.  102,  187. 
Savile,  Sir  John,  Knight,  vi.  158. 

Sawtr,  ,  ii.  250,  251. 

Sawtre,  Hunts,  Abbot  of,  ii.  232. 
Saxthorpe,  Norfolk,  i.  272-274;    ii.   192, 

198;    iii.   7,   119,  208,  265,  266,  289, 

292 ;  V.  63,  107,  133,  138,  142,  144;  vi. 

208. 
Say,  John,  iv.  75,  78,  217  ;  vi.  201. 
Say,  Wm.  Fienes,  Lord,  i.  68,  70,  71,  72 ; 

V.  100. 
Say,  Sir  Wm.,  i.  81  ;  vi.  129. 
Scales'  Cliff,  i.  183. 
Scales,  Lady,  ii.  43. 
Scales,  Anthony,  Lord.     S^i  Woodville. 
Scales  (Scalys),  Robt.,  Parson  of  Brasted, 

vi.  209. 
Scales,  Thos.,  Lord,  i.  71,  72,  73,  89,  95, 

112;  ii.  82,  87,  115,  116,  137,  138  (h's), 

139  {dis),  140,  141,  145,  168,  176,  193, 

196,  206,  207,  208,  210,  211,  226,  236, 


239,  249,  25s,  259,  265,  307,  320 ;  iii. 
83.  99»  100  (^w),  146,  195,  196;    lands 
of,  vi.  124,  125. 
Scales,  Thos.,  iii.  33. 

Scarlett, ,  iv.  279;  v.  248,  251. 

Scarlett,  Lady,  ii.  63. 

Scharggar, ,  v.  305. 

Schauntrell,  the  Lord.      (This  cannot  be 
Poton  de  Saintrailles,  as  suggested  in 
Fenn's  note,  for  he  died  in  1461),  v. 
296. 
Scheperd.     See  Shepherd. 
Scheryngton,  ii.  54. 
Schipdam.     See  Shipdam. 
Scholdham,  Thos.,  ii.  308. 
Schoryle.     Churl,  v.  122. 
Schypden.     See  Shipden. 
Scipio,  vi.  66. 

Scoles  (Scoolys),  Norfolk,  iii.  320 ;  iv.  46. 
Scolton,  vi.  2. 

Scotland,  i.  26,  55,  115,  192,  194;  iii.  87, 

267,  296,  312;  iv.  35,  44,  50,  51,  59, 

218;   v.   184;    vi.  89;    Henry  vi.  and 

Margaret  of  Anjou  in,  iii.  267. 

Scots,  The,  i.  315  ;   iii.  92,  271  ;  iv.  59, 

60;  V.  107,  188;  vi.  120. 
Scots,    Kings  of.       See   James    III.   and 

James  iv. 
Scots,  Queen  of.     See  Mary  of  Gueldres. 
Scott,  Sir  John,  v.  194,  279,  280. 
Scott,  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  John,  v. 

181,  279.     See  also  Bedingfield. 
Scrope,  Sir  John,  Knight,  iv.  105. 
Scrope,  Stephen,  stepson  of  Sir  J.  Fastolf, 
i.  153-156;    ii.  108,  109  ((J«),  no,  113- 
115,  116;    iii.  2,  54-55,  72,   109,   120, 
129,  141,  142;  iv.  44,  237,  244,  284, 
285  ;  V.  14.     See  also  Steven,  Master. 
Scrope  (of  Bolton),  John,  fifth  Lord  (i46o> 

98),  i.  299 ;  V.  258. 
Scrope   (of  Masham),   Thos.,    fifth   Lord 

(i455-75)»  iii-  267  ;  iv.  49,  105. 
Scrotby  (Scrowby,  or  Scroudeby),  Norfolk, 

iii.  114;  iv.  105,  237  ;  v.  117,  305. 
Scroudeby.     See  Scrotby. 

Sechforth, ,  ii.  201. 

Seez,  Normandy,  ii.  5. 

Seff  (Seve?), ,  daughter  of,  v.  312. 

Seggeford, ,  ii.  200. 

Seine  River,  France,  ii.  8  ;  iv.  35. 
Sekbrok,  iv.  116. 

Selenger, ,  iv.  275  ;  v.  69. 

Selet,  John,  ii.  216. 
Sellyng,  — — ,  ii.  254. 
Sellyng,  Richard,  ii.  188. 
Semecroft,  John,  ii.  68. 
Semper,  France,  ii.  7- 
Senctlowe.     See  Saintlow. 
Sendall.     Su  Sandal. 

307 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Sergaunte,  Robt.,  ii.  53. 

Seve  (Seyve),  John,  iv.  155  ;   v.  95,  305  ; 

vi.  152.     See  also  Seff. 
Seve,  Thos.,  v.  95. 
Sevenoaks,  i.  70. 

Sewal, ,  iii.  91. 

Sewardby,  Wm.,  ii.  10. 

Sewardby's  Manor,  Norfolk,  v.  298. 

Seymour,  Sir  John,  v.  104. 

Seynclew,  Thos,,  iv.  279. 

Seyne,  John,  v.  66,  67. 

Seyntlowe.     See  St.  Lo. 

Seyve.     See  Seve. 

Sforza,  Francis,  Duke  of  Milan,  i.  89 ;  ii. 

205. 
Shaa.     See  Shawe. 
Shakerley,  Nich. ,  iv.  280. 
Shakke  tyme.       Shack^    in    Norfolk    and 

Suffolk,  is  liberty  of  winter  pasturage 

for  the  lord  of  the  manor  on  his  tenant's 

lands,  iv.  124. 
Sharington,  Norfolk,  vi.  208. 
Sharman,  Rich.,  v.  58. 
Sharp,  Robt.,  iv.  10;  vi.  125. 

Sharpe, ,  i.  336. 

Sharynborn, ,  ii.  282. 

Shave, ,  iv.  285. 

Shawe  (Shaa),  Edmund,  v.  76. 

Shawe,  John,  iv.  154,  238,  239,  241,  242  ; 

V.  167,  168 ;  vi.  206. 
Shawe  (Shave),  Wm.,  iv.  237,  243,  285. 
Sheen  (Shene,  Chenne),  Surrey,  afterwards 

called  Richmond,  i.  171,  271,  315;   iii. 

87,  92  ;  V.  135  ;  vi.  8,  93,  108,  122,  137  ; 

Charter-house  at,  iii.  196  ;    Castle  of,  v. 

259.     See  also  Richmond. 
Sheep  taken  from  Hellesdon,  iv.  161,  166, 

171,  191. 
Shelton,  Catherine,  widow  of  Wm.,  ii.  39. 
Shelton,  John,  ii.  39. 
Shelton,  Piers,  ii.  26. 
Shelton,  Ralph,  ii.  39,  308. 
Shepherd  (Schepherd),  Sim.,  ii.  86. 
Sheriff.     See  Shireff. 
Sheriff  Hutton  (Shirrifhoton),  i.  176  ;   iii. 

122;  vi.  134,  135. 
Sheriffs  turn,  ii.  187. 
Sheriffs,  Election  of,  iii.  109. 
Sheringham,  Robt.,  Vicar  of  East  Dere- 
ham, iv.  124. 
Sherringham  (Sheryngham,  Shiryngham), 

Norfolk,   i.    254 ;    v.    64 ;    Frenchmen 

taken  at,  iv.  35. 
Sherwood,  John,  Bishop  of  Durham  (1485- 

92),  vi.  131-132. 
Shipden  (Schypden),  Norfolk,  i.  39,  254 ; 

iv.  251 ;  V.  64;  vi.  191,  194. 
Shipdham,  Norfolk,  vi.  190. 
Shipdham  (Schyddam),  Walter  or  Watkin, 

308 


u.   96,   no,   134,   137,    170,   191,  199, 

252;   iii.  117,  118,  211,  219,  319;  iv. 

70,  113,  140,  184.      See  also  Qo\q^  Wm. 
Shipton.     See  also  Sibton. 
Shipton  (Sypton),  Sirjohn,  ii.  160, 194, 195. 

Shipton  (Sipton), ,  vi.  37,  38. 

Shiringham.     See  Sheryngham. 

Shirley,  Sir  Ralph,  vi.  187. 

Shirref,  Wm.,  ii.  1 18-120. 

Sholond  Hall,  Suffolk,  iii.  112. 

Shotbolt,  Thos.,  iii.  254. 

Shotery  (Shortere),  Edmund,  vi.  200,  201. 

Shottisham,  Suffolk,  vi.  143. 

Shraggcr, ,  ii.  215,  261. 

Shrew.     Brawler,  ii.  202. 
Shrewd.    Sharp  or  severe,  iii.  266  ;  iv.  25. 
Shrewsbury,  i.  81,  97,  173  ;  iii.  233. 
Shrewsbury,  Battle  of,  i.  165  ;  iii.  48. 
Shrewsbury, ,  wife  of  John,  first  Earl 

of,  ii.  89. 
Shrewsbury,  John  Talbot,   first    Earl  of 

(1442-53),  i.  56,  66,  96,  105,  106,  no, 

121-124,  127,  128,  130;  ii.  123;  iii.  60, 

64. 
Shrewsbury,  John  Talbot,  second  Earl  of 

(1453-60),  i.   163,  172,  189,  336  [bis)\ 

iii.  30,  44,  103,  108,  118. 
Shrewsbury,  Geo.  Talbot,  fourth  Earl  of 

(1473-1538),  vi.  152. 

Shuldham, ,  ii.  173,  215. 

Sibbeson  (Sybbeson),  Wm.,  vi.  70. 

Sibton  (Sybton),  ii.  171.    See  also  %\iv^\.oxi.. 

Sibton,  Sir  John,  ii.  240. 

Silk,  iv.  188. 

Sillie  le  Guillem,  Castle  of,  France,  iii. 

.57,64. 
Silver,  price  of,  v.  87. 
Silveryn,  Roger,  iv.  178. 
Simnel,  Lambert,  Rebellion  of,  i.  312-313. 

Simon, ,  ii.  224;  vi.  79. 

Simond  (surname  lost),  Sir,  vi.  102. 

Singleton, ,  vi.  178. 

Sion,  Order  of  the  Temple  of,  iv,  1 19. 

Sipton.     See  Shipton. 

Sisland  (Cyseland),  Norfolk,  ii.  192. 

Skelton,  John,  vi.  17. 

Skerne, ,  i.  286;  iv.  300 ;  v.  215  ;  vi. 

37,  38,  39,  107. 

Skerne,  Sir ,  v.  105. 

Skeyton,  Norfolk,  ii.  61  ;  vi.  190. 

Skilly, ,  iii.  5,  90,  91. 

Skinner,  Jas.,  iii.  310. 

Skipping,  Thos.,  ii.  202. 

Skipwith  (Skyppewith), ,  iii.  298 ;  iv. 


^  66,  138,  139,  172  ;  V.  285. 
Skipwith,  Anne,  v.  250,  252. 

Skolehouse  (Skolous), ,  iv.  230,  231. 

Skrowpe.     See  Scrope. 
Skyner, ,  ii.  157. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


*  Sleeping  time,'  iii.  89. 

Sleper,  Robt.,  iv.  280. 

Sleyforth  (Slyford),  Thos.,  iv.  205,  206. 

Sloley,  Master,  iii.  298  ;  iv.  3  ;  v.  242. 

Sloth,  Piers  at,  iv.  137,  146. 

Slyfelde, ,  v.  162,  170. 

Slyford.     See  Sleyforth. 
Smalbergh,  ii.  294 ;  iii.  195. 
Smalbridge  (Smalbergh),  Suffolk,  vi.  80. 

Smith  (Smyth), ,  iii,  205. 

Smith,  Harry,  ii.  311  ;  v.  207. 

Smith,  John,  iii.  271-272,  283  ;  iv.  26,  69- 

70,  71,  145,  153,  220,  286,  294  J  V.  143, 

I45>  177,  196;  vi.  2,  6,  19. 
Smith,  Martin,  vi.  27. 
Smith,  Wm.,  ii.  92,  187  ;  vi.  57,  80. 
Smithden  (Smethedon),  Hund.  of,  Norfolk, 

iv.  292. 
Smyth,  John,  i.  75,  242. 
Snailwell  (Sneylewell),  Cambs,  ii.  41,  102, 

159;  iii.  135,  220;  iv.  123,  256;  v.  63, 

138,  140,  141,  283,  301  ;    vi.  157,  191, 

192,  194. 
Snailwell,  Bailiff  of,  vi.  157. 
Snaith,  Yorks,  ii.  19. 

Snallewell, ,  vi.  176,  180. 

Snell  (Snel),  Thos.,  vi.  185. 

Snell,  Wm.,  vi.  185. 

Snetterton  (Snytertoon),  Norfolk,  iii.  133. 

Snoring,  Norfolk,  Parson  of,  i.  204 ;  iii. 

282,  290,  293. 
Snoring,  Little,  Norfolk,  ii.  332  {bis),  333 ; 

iii.  195- 

Snow, ,  iii.  106. 

Social  conditions  of  the  time  of  Paston 

Letters,  i.  317-329. 

Sokelyng, ,  iii.  319. 

Solatt.     See  Salet. 

Somer,  Harry,  iii.  81. 

Somerlay.     To  keep  ground  fallow,   iv. 

272;  vi.  171. 
Somerset,    Sir    Chas.,    afterwards     Lord 

Herbert  and  Earl  of  Worcester,  vi.  iii. 
Somerset,  Duchess  of,  i.  178,  291 ;  iv.  291  ; 

daughter  of,  iv.  291. 
Somerset,  Edmund  Beaufort,  second  Duke 

of  (1448-55),  i.  26-27,  33.  50-57,  ^1^  68, 

75,  87-88,  94-108,  III,  114,  116,  127, 

128-129,  i3o-i33»  140,  147,  149,  157- 

161,  162,  163,   166,   167,   169,  291  ;    ii. 

255,  274,  290-292,  297,  298,  299,  329 ; 

iii.  4,  25,  28,  29,  30,  31,  44. 
Somerset,  Edmund  Beaufort,  called  Duke 

of  (1464-71),  iv.  299;  V.  104. 
Somerset,  Henry  Beaufort,  third  Duke  of 

(1455-64),   i.    168,    173,  176,  177,   178, 

182-183,   184,  201,  262;   iii.   108,   125, 

126,  189,  234,  267,  269,  306,  312;    iv. 

32,  35,  52,  96.     See  also  Dorset. 


Somerset,  John  Beaufort,  Earl  of  (1397- 

1410),  vi.  82. 
Somerset,  John   Beaufort,   first  Duke  of 

(1443-4),  i.  51  ;  ii.  121  ;  vi.  82. 
Somerset,   Lord  John  (Beaufort),  brother 

of  Henry,  third  Duke  of,  v.  104. 
Somersetshire,  i.  134 ;  iii.  196. 
Somerton,  Norfolk,  ii.  51  ;  iii.  217. 
Somerton,  East,  vi.  190,  193,  195. 
Somerton,  West,  vi.  190,  193,  195. 
Somerton,  Beatrice,  vi.  190. 
Somerton,  Geoffrey  (Galfridus),  i.  28,  29  ; 

ii.  9;  vi.  190. 
Somerton,  John,  vi.  16. 
Somme  River,  France,  v.  219. 
Songer,  Jas.,  v.  190. 
Sorell,  a  horse,  v.  29. 
Sotehill,  Harry,  Counsel,  ii.  1 57 ;   iii.  72, 

129,  314. 
Soukingy  ii.  174. 
Souter,  Wm.,  i.  335. 

Southampton  (Hampton),  i.  177;  vi.  III. 
Southtown.     See  Yarmouth,  Little. 
Southwark,  i.  71,  74,  76,  77,  126;  ii.  154; 

iii.  86,  103,  191,  224,  233  note  3  ;  iv. 

II,  91,  234,  284,  310;  V.  166,  170,  176. 
Southwark,  Places,  etc. ,  in  : — 

Berehouse,  The,  iii.  224. 

Bermondsey  Street,  v.  166. 

Boar's  Head,  The,  iii.  132,  224. 

Buck  Head,  The,  iii.  154. 

Cardinal's  Hat,  The,  v.  120,  121. 

Fastolfs  place  in,  i.  199. 

Hartshorne,  The,  iii.  224. 

St.  George's,  iv.  242. 

St.  Margaret's,  i.  73. 

St.  Mary  Overy,  v.  64,  77. 

St.  Olave's  Church,  i.  202;  iii.  154,  155, 
162. 

Water  Mills  in,  iii.  224. 

White  Hart,  The,  ii.  155. 
Southwell,  Alice,   daughter  of  Rich.,  v. 

228. 
Southwell,  Sir  John,  ii.  333. 
Southwell,  Master,  i.  265. 
Southwell,  Rich.,  i.  199,  276,  297,  298; 

ii.  248,  254,  255,  308  ;  iii.  3-4,  21,  191, 

235,  236,  260,  261,  277-278;   iv.  224, 

304;  V.  24,  73,  74»  114,  151,  172,  202, 

227-228,  238,  260;  vi.  155. 
Southwell,  Robt.,  vi.  152. 
Sowle,  Geoffrey,  ii.  214. 
Sowlemesse    Day.       All    Souls'  Day.    iv. 

211. 
Sowter.     A  shoemaker,  ii.  323. 
Sowter,  Adam,  vi.  207. 
Spain,  i.  287. 
Spain,  Isabella  of,  i.  317. 
Spain  (Spayn),  John  de,  iv.  279. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Spanish  Ships  or  Fleet,  iii.  130;  iv.  35, 

57. 

Spany,  Robt.,  ii.  311,  312;  iii.  194,  237. 

Sparham,  Norfolk,  i.  301  ;  ii.  51,  52,  159, 
236,  264 ;  iv.  158,  225,  226  ;  V.  167, 
261,  275,  276,  283,  284,  285,  291  ;  vi. 
48,  69. 

Sparham,  Norfolk,  Parson  of,  ii.  S6. 

Sparham,  John  of,  ii.  S6. 

Sparham,  Sir  John,  iv.  209. 

Sparke, ,  vi.  39. 

Sparre,  Simon,  ii.  249. 

Spedding,  Mr.,  i.  314. 

Speke,  Sir  John,  vi.  152. 

Spelman  (Spilman),  Henry,  Recorder  of 
Norwich  in  1469,  iii.  80 ;  iv.  67,  105 ; 
V.  34,  95  ;  vi.  23. 

Spencer,  John,  ii.  67. 

Spencers  in  Herringby,  iv.  109,  289,  292  ; 
V.  76,  94. 

Spendlove,  Sir  Reynold,  Clerk,  iv.  32. 

Spenser,  Robt.,  vi.  142. 

Sperham.     Sge  Sparham. 

Sperid.  Fastened  (spoken  of  doors),  ii. 
102. 

Sperlyng  (Spirling),  Geoff.,  ii.  192;  iii. 
12,  32,  68,  104,  no,  115,  117,  118,  119, 
145,  202,  214  ;  iv.  223,  225  ;  v.  67,  141. 

Spery,  Robt.,  v.  82. 

Spicer,  Clement,  ii.  246. 

Spicer,  Master,  v.  72. 

Spicer,  Thos.,  iv.  237,  243,  284. 

Spirling.     See  Sperlyng. 

Spirling  (Spyrlyng),  Geoff.     See  Sperling. 

Spitlynges,  Suffolk,  iv.  18,  109,  244,  289, 
292 ;  V.  98,  107,  148,  189. 

Spordauns  (Spurdans), ,  iii.  267. 

Spordauns,  Margaret,  iv.  223. 

Sporle,  Norfolk,  i.  254,  274,  283,  292, 
293;  ii.  64,  159,  172;  iii.  23,  146;  iv. 
250,  252,  253,  256 ;  V.  25,  63,  127,  129, 
136,  139,  141,  144,  167,  168  {bis),  169, 
181,  191,  192,  197,  201,  213,  222,  226, 
233,  237,  283,  293,  294,  295,  303 ;  vi. 
20.  40,  57,  96. 

Sporle,  Norfolk,  Tenants  of,  iv.  272  j  v. 
201-202;  Vicar  of,  ii.  159,  172;  vi. 
20. 

Spriggeis  Manor,  Norfolk,  v.  298. 

Spring  (Sprynge), ,  v.  196. 

Sprouston,  Norfolk,  i.  32 ;  ii.  18,  28. 

Spycer.     See  Spicer. 

Spyrlyng.     See  Sperlyng. 

Squyer,  Sir  John,  ii.  195. 

Squyre,  John,  iv.  279. 

Stacy, ,  ii.  147. 

Stafford,  i.  173. 

Stafford,  Duke  of  Buckingham.  See  Buck- 
ingham. 

310 


Stafford,  Anne,  eldest  daughter  of  Hum- 
phrey, Duke  of  Buckingham,  iii.  218. 

Stafford,  Henry,  Earl  of,  grandson  of 
Buckingham,  afterwards  second  Duke, 
i.  161 ;  ii.  38  ;  iii.  127.  See  also  Buck- 
ingham. 

Stafford,  Henry,  Earl  of,  son  of  Edward, 
third  Duke  of  Buckingham,  vi.  173. 

Stafford,  Lord  Henry  (called  Lord  Henry 
of  Buckingham),  iii.  268  ;  v.  62. 

Staflford,  Humphrey,  Earl  of  (1403),  eldest 
son  of  first  Duke  of  Buckingham,  ii.  76 ; 
iii.  25,  28,  29,  30. 

Stafford,  Humphrey,  Lord  (of  South  wick), 
created  Earl  of  Devonshire  in  1469,  v. 
28. 

Stafford,  Sir  Humphrey,  i.  70;  ii.  89;  iii. 
267. 

Stafford,  John,  iii.  267. 

Stafford,  John,  Bishop  of  Bath  (1425-43), 
ii.  38;  Archbishopof  Canterbury  (1443- 
52)  and  Chancellor  (1432-50),  ii.  74, 
104,  105,  no. 

Stafford,  Lord  John  (called  Lord  John  of 
Buckingham),  v.  62. 

Stafford,  Richard,  son  of  Sir  Humphrey, 
ii.  89. 

Stafford,  Thos.,  vi.  118. 

Stafford  Bernyngham,  ii.  46. 

Stalham  (Stalom),  Norfolk,  ii.  43. 

Stalham,  Thos.,  ii.  68. 

Stalworth,  Watkyn,  vi.  184. 

Stamford,  i.  75,  116;  iv.  34;  Battle  of, 
v.  86  note  i. 

Stanhope, ,  iv.  168. 

Stanle, ,  ii.  289. 

Stanley  (Staneley), ,  iv.  274. 

Stanley,  Geo.     See  Strange. 

Stanley,  Sir  Humfrey,  vi.  loi,  187. 

Stanley,  Thos.,  Lord  (1459-85),  Earl  of 
Derby  (1485- 1504),  v.  71. 

Stanley,  Sir  Thos.,  i.  81  ;  ii.  150;  iii.  30. 

Stanley,  Sir  W.,  i.  287. 

Stanstede,  Suffolk,  ii.  n,  73;  iv.  251,  252, 
253  ;  vi.  29,  33,  34,  76,  79-80,  191,  192. 

Stanton,  Nicholl,  iv.  187. 

Stanywerp,  Bury  St.  Edmund's,  ii.  4. 

Staple,  Merchants  of  the,  v.  262. 

Stapleton  (Stapilton),  ii.  220,  221,  222. 

Stapleton  (Stapilton),  Sir  Brian,  Knight, 
ii.  141,  193,  308;  iii.  loi. 

Stapleton,  Sir  Brian,  ii.  14,  15. 

Stapleton  (Stapulton),  Sir  Miles,  i.  112, 
190,  204,  206,  338;  ii.  141,  163,  164, 
176,  180,  182,  185  note  I,  208,  230, 
259 ;  iii.  12,  93,  94,  227,  266,  286,  288, 
289  (6z>),  292,  298 ;  vi.  75. 

Stapleton,  Miles,  ii.  145. 

Stapleton,  Lady,  ii.  288. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Stapleton,  Lady  Catherine,  widow  of  Sir 

Miles,  vi.  79. 
Staplis.     See  Etaples. 
Star  Chamber  at  Westminster.     See  West- 
minster. 
Starbroke,  Gilbert,  iii.  28. 
Starke weder,  John,  iv.  279. 
Starkey  (Sterkey),  Humph.,  Barrister,  iv. 

88,  218. 

Starkey  (Cookeson), ,  v.  97. 

Staundon,  Kent,  iv.  309,  311. 

Staunton, ,  vi.  37,  38,  39. 

Staunton,  Wm.,  ii.  237. 

Stavely,  Master,  iv.  268. 

Stayard.     See  Steyard. 

Staynford,  John,  ii.  19. 

Stendale,  Edmund,  iii.  33. 

Stephen  (Steven),  Master,  iv.  145,   180, 

186-187 ;  V.  72. 
Sterborough,  Lady,  ii.  252-253. 
Sterkey.     See  Starkey. 
Stermyn,  Thos.,  iv.  137,  138. 
Steven.     See  Stephen. 
Stevenson,  Thos.,  vi.  4,  7. 
Stevynned.     Parti-coloured,  vi.  177. 

Steward, ,  of  Colton,  vi.  5. 

Steward,  Tom,  i.  265. 

Steyard,  Wm.,  ii.  29,  30. 

Stibbard  (Styberd),  Norfolk,  v.  300. 

Still.     See  Style. 

Stillington,   Robt.,   Bishop  of  Bath  and 

Wells  (1466-91),  Lord  Chancellor  (1467- 

73),  V.  108,  159. 
Stirop  (Styrop), ,  of  the  King's  Bench, 

ii.  183. 
Stiwardson,  Wm.,  ii.  65,  140  {bis). 
Stockton,  Norfolk,  Parson  of,  ii.  45. 

Stocton, ,  i.  286;  daughter  of,  v.  215. 

Stodeley,  John,  ii.  295-299. 

Stodhagh,  Thos. ,  ii.  46. 

Stoke  (Norfolk  ?),  iv.  289. 

Stoke,  Suffolk,  ii.  195. 

Stokeby,  Newark,  Notts,  Battle  of,  i.  313  ; 

vi.  101-102,  187. 
Stoke  Nayland,  Suffolk,  iv.  211. 
Stokes,  John,  Clerk,  LL.D.,  ii.  86;  iii. 

50,  71,  165,  166,  191,  204,  206,  218, 

294 ;  iv.  183. 
Stokesby,  Norfolk,  iii.  255 ;  v.  76. 
Stokesby,  Church  of,  iii.  i6,  17. 
Stokesby,  Parson  of,  v.  153. 
Stompys (Stomps),  Thos.,  v.  72,  74,  78,  91. 
Stonham,  Suffolk,  ii.  52. 

Stonham, ,  ii.  275. 

Stonor,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  11,  40,  41  (dw),  187. 

Stonstead.     See  Stanstead. 

Stony  Stratford,  i.  322. 

Stotevyle,  Wm.,  ii.   65.      See  also  Stut- 

vyle. 


Stourton,  Lord,  i.  336. 

Stradbroke,  Bailiff  of,  iv.  206. 

Strange,   Geo.    Stanley,   Lord   (1482-97), 

vi.  151. 

Strange  (Strawng), ,  wife  of,  iv.  74, 

Strange,  John,  iv.  148-149,  261-262. 

Strangwysse,  Sir  Jas. ,  iii.  249. 

Strangys,  Land  called,  iii.  23. 

Stratford,  Suffolk,  ii.  323. 

Stratford  of  the  Bowe,  iv.  80. 

Stratford,  Abbey  of,  vi.  121. 

Stratton,  iii.  296,  297,  298,  299;  iv.  30, 

258. 
Stratton,  Ree's  tenement  in,  v.  7. 
Stratton,  Long,  vi.  199. 
Stratton,  Long,  Rector  of,  vi.  199. 
Stratton,  Rich.,  v.  253,  254,  255. 

Straunge, ,  ii.  217. 

Straunge,  Henry,  iv.  279. 

Strecok,  Nich.,  ii.  264. 

Street  Hall  (Strehall  or  Strawhall),  Cres- 

singham,  v.  244,  245. 
Strek  met.     Exact  measure  (?),  iv.  130. 
Strickland,  Sir  Thos.,  v.  105. 
Strumpshaw,  Norfolk,  ii.  311. 
Stuard,  Master,  iv.  268. 
Stuff.     Household  goods,  iv.  14,  24. 

Sturmer, ,  vi.  39. 

Sturmer,  Harry,  ii.  188. 

Sturmyn,  Robt.,  Mayor  of  Bristol,  ii.  324. 

Sturmyn, ,  v.  312. 

Stutvyle, ,  V.  61.     See  also  Stotevyle. 

Stwkle, ,  iv.  225. 

Styberd.     See  Stibbard. 

Style  (Still),  Sir  John,  iv.  299  j  v.  25,  60, 

127-128,  146,  153,  154,  177. 
Styrston,  Norfolk,  iv.  215. 
Styward,  Thos.,  v.  114. 
Subpoena  delivered  in  church  on  Sunday, 

V.  320. 

Suckling  (Sokelyng), ,  iii.  319. 

Sudbury,  Suffolk,  iv.  191. 

Sudley,  Sir  Ralph  Butler,  Lord,  i.  99,  108, 

287,  336  {bis) ;  ii.  78 ;  iv.  289,  292  ;   v. 

94,  107,  186. 
Suffield,  John,  ii.  277. 
Suffolk,  County  of,  i.  64,  330;    ii.  171 

182,  185  note  I,  196,  207  ;    iii.  85,  i6i, 

162,   163,   164,   190,   310;    iv.  53,  66, 

136;  V.  95,  97;  vi.  90. 
Suffolk,  Sessions  of,  iv.  193. 
Suffolk,  Sheriff  of,  iv.  116. 
Suffolk,  Under  Sheriff  of,  iv.  107,  108. 
Suffolk,  Michael  Pool,  first  Earl  of,  i.  223. 
Suffolk,  Wm.  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of  (1415-44), 

Marquis  of  (1444-8),  Duke  of  (1448-50), 

i.  38,  42,  44-48,  53,  57-67,  68,  102,  108, 

164  ;  ii.  38,  43>47.  80,  86,  100,  120-127, 

132,  136,  142-143.  MS.  146-147.  148, 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


149,  150,  170;  iii.  39,  56,  65  {bis),  94, 
154;  iv.  63,  157,  165. 

Suffolk,  Alice,  Duchess  of,  wife  of  preced- 
ing, i.  94,  190,  207,  212,  226,  240,  245  ; 
ii.  288,  289 ;  iii.  94,  146,  226,  278,  310 ; 
iv.  9>  25,  151,  163,  165,  168,  205,  221, 
256,  274,  303,  304;  V.  5,  II,  12-13,  I5> 
24,  155,  166. 

Suffolk,  John  de  la  Pole,  Duke  of  (1463- 
91),  i.  209,  212,  213,  218-219,  220-221, 
223,  226-227,  231-232,  245,  246,  261, 
303-304,  307,  311;  ii.  142;  iii.  226, 
271,  314;  iv.  25,  27,  62,  66,  75,  106, 
129-130,  135,  137,  139,  140,  146,  147, 
148,  157,  164,  165,  168,  180,  187,  201, 
204,  205,  206,  207,  208,  256,  272;  V. 
24,  30,  3i»  32,  62,  ^6,  126,  149,  309, 
317,  318,  320,  323 ;  vi.  I,  2,  21,  74-75, 
89-90 ;  claim  of,  to  Drayton,  iv.  129- 
130,  135.  157,  159.  160-162,  162-163, 
164-165,  170-171,  204-208,  280-281; 
pedigree  of,  iv.  165. 

Suffolk,  Eliz.,  Duchess  of,  wife  of  preced- 
ing, and  sister  to  Edward  IV.,  iii.  226; 
iv.  163 ;  V.  128,  131,  309,  323 ;  vi.  72, 108. 

Suffolk,  Edmund  de  la  Pole,  Earl  of  (1491- 
1503).  i-  316;  vi.  160. 

Sugar,  iv.  210 ;  v.  127. 

Sumpterman,  John,  ii.  298. 

Sundridge  (Sondryche),  Kent,  vi.  209. 

Sundridge,  Sir  Robert,  Parish  Priest  of, 
vi.  209. 

Suoh  (?),  Griffith,  iii.  92. 

Surienne,  Fran9ois  (L'Arragonois),  i.  53- 
54,  56. 

Surrey,  County  of,  iv.  234;  v.  81. 

Surrey,  Eliz.,  Countess  of,  i.  311  ;  vi.  87- 
88,  89. 

Surrey,  Thos.  Howard,  Earl  of,  i.  311 ; 
vi.  113,  134,  135. 

Sussex,  County  of,  i.  177. 

Sussex,  Rad cliff  (Ratcliff)  Family,  Earls 
of,  iv.  214. 

Sustead  (Sustede),  Norfolk,  i.  254;  ii. 
112,  134;  v.  64. 

Suthwell.     See  Southwell. 

Sutton,  Robt.,  ii.  27. 

Swaffham  (Swafham),  Norfolk,  i.  90 ;  ii. 

53-54,  145,  159,  175,  176,  192,  197,  206, 
208,  209,  215,  217,  221,  222,  231-233, 
239;  V.  167. 

Swaffham,  Bailiff  of,  ii.  214.  See  also 
Blake. 

Swaffham,  Parson  of,  ii.  211. 

Swafield,  vi.  4. 

Swainsthorpe  (Sweyngsthorp),  Norfolk,  ii. 
234 ;  iii.  135  ;  iv.  74,  87,  92,  123,  223, 
250,  251,  252,  253  ;  V.  6,  117,  141,  275, 
276,  284,  312,  313;  vi.  25,  96,  97. 

312 


Swan,  Agnes,  vi.  52. 

Swan,  Wm.,  ii.  24 ;  iv.  290 ;  v.  83  ;  vi.  8. 

Swathfield,  ii.  72  note  3. 

Swathing,  Edmund,  ii.  68. 

Swaywell.     See  Snailwell. 

Sweet  (Swete),  Henry,  v.  97. 

Swemeful.     Sorrowful,  v.  10. 

Sweyngsthorp.     See  Swainsthorpe. 

Swiss,  The,  v.  258. 

Switzerland,  i.  299. 

Swolle, ,  ii.  191. 

Swyflfhcote,  John,  ii.  117. 

Swyneston, ,  ii.  89. 

Swynford,  Catherine,  third  wife  of  John  of 
Gaunt,  vi.  82. 

Swystode,  de.  The  Wynsalaw  (?),  ii.  22. 

Sybton.     See  Sibton. 

Syme  or  Symme,  a  boy,  v.  103,  169,  175, 
212,  213,  229,  232,  245,  272. 

Symmys,  John,  iv.  154,  238,  239,  240, 
241,  242,  243. 

Symmys,  Thos.,  ii.  149. 

'  Sypton's  matter,'  ii.  193.  See  also  Ship- 
ton. 

Tables,  Game  of,  vi.  79. 

Tacolneston,  Norfolk,  iv.  258. 

Taderston,  vi.  182. 

Tailboys,   Wm.,  i.  59;   ii.  118-120;   iii. 

307. 
Taillor.     See  Taylor. 
Tailors'  Company,  iii.  75' 
Talbot,  Chris.,  vi.  207. 
Talbot,  Sir  Chris.,  third  son  of  John,  first 

Earl  of  Shrewsbury,  ii.  47. 
Talbot,  Gilbert,  eleventh  Lord,  ii.  8 ;  vi. 

158,  187. 
Talbot,  Henry,  i.  124. 
Talbot,  Sir  Humphrey,  v.  43. 
Talbot,  Sir  John,  i.  81. 
Talbot,  Mr.,  v.  254. 

Talfas, ,  ii.  278. 

Talfas,  Margaret,  ii.  278. 
Talyour,  John,  vi.  115. 
Tancarville,  i.  106. 

Tanfeld, ,  iii.  270. 

Tanner,  Rev.  Dr.,  i.  330. 

Tanny,  France,  ii.  7- 

Tartyssale,  John,  Parson  of  East  Church, 

Warham,  iii.  45.     See  also  Tattershall. 
Tasborough,  ii.  19 1. 
Tatleshale,  John,  ii.  216. 
Tattershall,  Lincolnshire,  i.  131,  119,  120, 

198. 
Tattershall  (Tatirshall),  Sir  John,  iii.  195, 

212,  290.     See  also  Tartyssale. 
Tattingstone  (Tatyngston),  Suffolk,  v.  5. 
Taunton,  Somerset,  ii.  296. 
Taverham,  Norfolk,  iv.  8 ;  vi.  69. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Taverham  Old  (Roger  ?),  iv.  4. 

Taverham,  Roger,  iv.  5-7,  7-9. 

Taverham,  Thos.,  iv.  8. 

Taverner,  Wm.,  ii.  286;  iv.  26;  vi.  176. 

Taxation,  i.  280-283. 

Taylor,  Adam,  iv.  159. 

Taylor,  Robt.,  ii.  267,  271,  308,  310,  311. 

Taylor,  Roger,  ii.  46. 

Taylor,  Wm.,  vi.  167. 

Taylour,  Ralph,  vi.  167. 

Tebald,  Robt.,  ii.  62-63. 

Teffaunt,  Wilts.,  seat  of  Lord  Molejrns,  ii. 

91. 
Telte,  Robt.,  ii.  283. 
Temperley.     See  Tvmperley. 
*  Temple  of  Glass,^  Lydgate's,  i.  323 ;  v. 

13s ;  vi.  65. 

Tendale, ,  iiL  248. 

Tendall,  John,  v.  179. 
Tendall,  Mary,  vi.  52. 

Tentale, ,  iv.  68. 

Terell.     See  Tyrell. 

Testerton,  Norfolk,  vi.  113;   Church  of, 

ii.  23  note  l  ;  vi.  113. 
Testerton,  Parson  of,  vi.  113,  114. 
Tewkesbury,  Battle  of,   i.   262,  266 ;   v. 

104-105. 
Thames  River,  i.  109 ;  ii.  53 ;  iv.  57. 
Thanet  (Tenett),  Isle  of,  v.  189. 
Tharston  (Therston),  Norfolk,  iv.  258. 
Theberton,  Suffolk,  iii.  263. 
Thelverton  (Thelton),  Norfolk,  iii.  147. 
Themelthorpe  (Thimblethorpe),  v.  300. 
Thepala  (?),  iii.  206. 
Therston.     See  Tharston. 
Thetford,  Norfolk,  i.  312;   ii.  214,  258, 

300;  iii.  13s,  265;  iv.  33,  92,  93  {bis), 

94,  224,  284 ;    V.  252 ;    vi.  45,  69,  IOC  ; 

Priory  of,  ii.  33  ;  iii.  120. 
Thetford,  Prior  of  (John  Vescey),  v.  loi. 
Thimblethorpe.     See  Themelthorpe. 
Thirn.     See  Thume. 

Thomas, ,  i.  305. 

Thompson,   Thos.,  of  Guisnes,   iii.   307. 

See  also  Tomson. 
Thorald,  Thos.,  iv.  154,  238,  243,  244. 

Thoresby, ,  iv.  39. 

Thorne,  Rich.,  iii.  299. 
Thornham,  vi.  Ii6. 
Thornham,  John,  i.  332. 
Thornham,  Simon,  iii.  80;  iv.  187. 
Thornton, ,  Chamberlain  of  London, 

iii.  76. 
Thorpe,  Norfolk,  ii.  268 ;  iv.  193 ;  vi.  Sj^ 

88. 
Thorpe,  Parson  of,  ii.  96. 

Thorpe, ,  iv.  289. 

Thorpe  (Thorppe),  Robt.,  iv.  279. 
Thorpe,  Robt.,  of  Norwich,  vi.  89. 


Thorpe,  Thos.,  Baron,  of  the  Exchequer, 
and  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons 
(1454),  I  127,  I34-I35»  136-137;  ii. 
296 ;  iii.  28,  29,  44,  226,  228,  242. 

Thorpe,  Thos.  iv.  279. 

Thorpe,  Friar  Wm.,  iv.  220. 

Thorpe  Waterfield,  iii.  267. 

Thorpe  Wood,  i.  113 ;  ii.  309. 

Thorplond,  vi.  56. 

Threcher  (Thressher),  John,  iv.  97 ;  v. 
26,  6a 

Thurnberne, ,  iii.  315. 

Thume  (Thirn),  Norfolk,  v.  299. 

Thurning  (Thyrning),  Norfolk,  ii.  214  ;  iv. 
214,  225. 

Thurrock,  West  (Westthirrok),  Essex,  iv. 
188. 

Thnxton,  Wm.,  ii.  216;   vi.  75,  191,  192, 

195- 
Thuxtons,  Norfolk,  v.  299. 

Thwait,  Griffin  de,  i.  I. 
Thwait.     See  also  Tweyt. 
Thyrkbye  (Tyrkbye),  v.  31$. 
Thyrning.     See  Thurning. 

Thyrston,   ,    v.    no,   143,   152,   181, 

185. 
Tibetot,  Lord,  m.  156. 
Tibetot,  Milicent.     See  Fastolf,  Milicent. 
Tibetot,  Sir  Robt.,  iii.  147,  153. 
Tidman,  Wm.,  vi.  209. 
Tiger  Pursuivant,  v.  297. 
Tilly  (Tylly),  Normandy,  ii.  7. 
Tilney,  Alan  de,  ii.  2. 
Tilney,   Reginald,    Prior  of  Ixworth,   iv. 

73- 
Tindale,  Mary,  wife  of  Sir  Wm.,  lu.  52 

note  2. 

Titchwell  (Tychwell),  Norfolk,  i.  196,  272, 
273 ;  ii.  134,  188,  199,  200,  201  ;  iii.  65, 
72,  105,  220,  263;  iv.  108,  109,  159, 
292 ;  v.  6,  71,  72,  107,  136,  142,  234. 

Titleshale, ,  iv.  296  ;  v.  1 16. 

Tittleshall,  Norfolk,  iu  21. 

Tobye,  John,  iv.  284. 

Todenham.     See  Tuddenham. 

Toke,  Henry,  iv.  241. 

ToUe,  Robt.,  ii.  283. 

Tolman,  Nich.,  iv.  132. 

Tolthorpe,  Norfolk,  i.  284 ;  v.  76,  77,  92, 
188. 

Toly,  R.,  iv.  294. 

Tolycs  or  ToUeys,  Lands  called,  vL  75, 

191. 
Tom,  Master,  iv.  164. 
Tomson,  T.,  v.  60. 
Tonstale.     See  Tunstall. 
TopcliflFe,  Yorks,  vi.  128. 
Topcroft,  V.  264,  267,  268,  272,  273,  274 ; 

vi.  30. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Toppes,  Robert,  i.  338. 

Toppis, ,  ii.  247,  251. 

Topy,  John,  ii.  43. 
Toring,  Rich.,  v.  246. 
Tottenham  (Totnam),  vi.  13. 
Totyndon,  Kent,  iv.  309,  311. 
Touchet,  Sir  J  as..  Lord  Audelay,  vi.  102. 
Touques  (Towk),  Normandy,  ii.  6. 
Tournament  at  Eltham,  iv.  275,  276. 
Tournament  at  Smithfield,  iv.  277. 
Tovey,  France,  ii.  7. 
Tovy,  John,  iv.  102,  103,  237,  242. 
Tower  of  London.     See  London. 
Townsend  (Townysende),  ,  iv.  273, 

305. 

Townsende,  Robt.,  iii.  237. 

Townsende  (Tounesende),  Roger,  i.  283, 
292,  293,  298;  iv.  152;  V.  7,  64,  68, 
73»  74,  75.  94.  125,  138,  153,  163,  164, 
169,  202,  211,  213,  214,  223,  226,  235, 
293  ;  vi.  21,  74,  149-150,  169. 

Towton,  Battle  of,  i.  194,  201,  205 ;  iii. 
267,  268. 

Tracy,  Normandy,  ii.  7. 

Traunson.     A  cross  beam,  vi.  50,  176. 

Trayford,  Sir  Edward,  vi.  151. 

Treacle  of  Genoa,  iv.  257  ;  vi.  25. 

Treasurers,  Lord.  See  Cromwell,  Ralph, 
Lord  (1434-44);  Beauchamp,  John, 
Lord  (1450-2) ;  Worcester,  John,  Earl 
of  (1452-56,  and  1462-4) ;  Wiltshire  and 
Ormond,  James,  Earl  of  (1455,  and 
1458-60) ;  Bourchier,  Henry  (1455-56 
and  1460) ;  Woodville,  Richard,  Earl 
Rivers  (1466-69) ;  Longstruther,  Sir 
John  (1469)  ;  Dynham,  John,  Lord 
(1486-1501). 

Trenchemer, ,  ii.  217. 

Trent  River,  iv.  32. 

Trentalles.  A  trentall  was  thirty  masses, 
vi.  201. 

Tresham, ,  ii.  249  ;  iv.  274,  305. 

Tresham,  Sir  Harry,  v.  105. 

Tresham,  Thos. ,  ii.  296 ;  iii.  29. 

Tresham,  Sir  Thos.,  v.  105. 

Tresham,  Wm.,  i.  80,  88. 

Trevilian,  John,  ii.  296. 

Tricarico,  Thos.  Brancaccio,  Cardinal  of, 
ii.  22. 

*  Trinity,'  The  ship,  iv.  57. 

Troilus  and  Cressida,  i.  323. 

Troilus,  Book  of,  vi.  65. 

TroUope,  Andrew,  i.  181  ;  iii.  234,  249. 

Trollope,  Sir  Andrew,  iii.  267,  268. 

Troutbeke,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  loi,  187. 

Trovy,  John,  vi.  162-163. 

Trunch,  Norfolk,  ii.  73 ;  iv.  10 ;  v.  298. 

Trunch,  Church  of,  vi.  188. 

Trunch,  Richard  de,  ii.  2. 


Trusbut,  Thos.,  ii.  173. 

Trussell, ,  v.  32. 

Tuddenham  (Todenham),  Norfolk,  v.  299. 
Tuddenham  East,  ii.  ii  j   vi.  56,  75,  190, 

192.  195- 
Tuddenham  (Todyham),  Henry,  iii.  145, 

222,  227,  228. 
Tuddenham  (Tudham,  or  Todenham),  Sir 

Thos.,  i.  42,  84,  86,  89-91,  94,  112,  164, 

189,  207,  211,  338  ;    ii.  57,  79,  87,  117, 

150.  I75>  T^n,  180,  188,  189,  191,  192, 
I95j  196,  198,  202  note  i,  206,  207,  208, 
209,  210,  211,  212,  214-215,  216,  217 
{bis),  218,  225,  226,  227,  230,  231,  232, 
233,  238,  239,  249  [bis),  252,  255,  259, 
275-276,  307,  308  ;  iii.  39,  45,  46,  47, 
48,  95,  196,  222,  225,  227,  228,  278, 
292  ;  iv.  15,  18,  20,  104,  219. 

Tuddenham,  Harry,  ii.  173,  174. 

Tudor,    Edmund,   Earl  of  Richmond,   i. 

135.  171,  311  ;  ii-  285,  297  ;  iii.  92  ;  vi. 

82. 
Tudor,  Henry.     See  Henry  vii. 
Tudor,  Jasper,  Earl  of  Pembroke,  i.   135, 

158,  161,  171,  192,  330;    ii.  285,  298; 

iii.  25,  92,  198,  312;  iv.  58;   v.  112; 

vi.  81. 
Tudor,  Owen,  vi.  81,  82, 
Tuke,  Rich.,  vi.  205. 
Tully.     See  Cicero. 
Tunstall,  Norfolk,  iii.  195. 
Tunstall,  Sir  Rich.,  iv.  51,  59. 
Tunstall  (Tonstale),  W. ,  v.  32. 
Tunstall,  Sir  Wm. ,  iv.  59. 
Tunstead  (Tonstead),  Norfolk,  iv.  46,  211. 
Turbeville  (Trobylvyll),  Sir  John,  vi.  1 18. 
Turk,  a  little,  in  London,  v.  69-70. 
Turks,  The,  i.  128,  186. 
Turner,  Dawson,  the  Antiquary,  i.  119. 
*  Turnerys  of  Lawn,'  vi.  179. 
Turve,  France,  ii.  6,  7. 
Tutbury,  Staffordshire,  i.  171  ;  iii.  86,  87. 
Tuxford,  Notts,  i.  134  ;  ii.  296. 
Tweyt,  Geoffrey  de,  i.  2. 
Tweyt,  Roger  de,  i.  2. 

Twyer, ,  i.  204;  iii.  128. 

Twyer,  John,  iii.  227,  274,  275,  282,  290, 

291,  293,  296. 
Tychewell.     See  Titchwell. 
Tydder.     See  Tudor. 

Tylerd, ,  iii.  264. 

Tylly,  France,  ii.  7. 

Tylyard,  Robt.,  iii.  263. 

Tymperley  (Temperley), ,  ii.  235-236 

242,  243,  273,  322,  323 ;   iii.  309 ;    v. 

151,  172. 

Tymperley,  John,  i.  276,  297. 
Tyndale,  Wm.,  vi.  124. 
Tyrell, ,  i.  190;  iii.  226. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Tyrell,  Sir  Jas.,  i.  272  ;  v.  105,  189. 

Tyrell,  Sir  John,  ii.  275  ;  iii.  62. 

Tyrell  (Terell),  Sir  Thos.,  ii.   208,  258; 

iv.  189  ;  vi.  130,  187. 
Tyrell  (Terell),  Sir  Wm.,  i.  337  ;  iv.  305  ; 

V.  100. 
Tyrlyngham,  Kent,  iv.  309,  310. 
Tyrwitt,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  187. 

Ulveston,  ,   Steward  of  the  Middle 

Temple,  ii.  206. 
Ulveston,  John,  ii.  193,  194. 
Umfraville  (Umphirvile),  Sir  Gilbert,  ii.  8. 
Unguentum  album,  ii.  248. 
Upgate,  Sir  Wm. ,  Vicar  of  Caister,  vi.  3. 
Upton,  Norfolk,  Vicar  of,  iv.  227. 
Upton,  Thos.,  iii.  44,  116,  212,  232;   iv. 

102,  103,  239. 
Urmond.     See  Ormond. 
Urry,  John,  ii.  22. 
Urswick,  Chris.,  Archdeacon  of  Richmond, 

(1494- 1 500),  vi.  206. 

Vache,  Philip,  and  Eliz.  his  wife,  i.  41, 

42  ;  ii.30-31. 
Valeis.     See  Falaise. 

Valognes  (Valence),  Normandy,  i.  67  ;  ii.  5. 
Vampage,  Sir  Wm.,  vi.  102,  ill,  187. 
Vannes,  Brittany,  ii.  104 ;  vi.  126. 
Vaughan  (Wagham),  Sir  Hugh,  vi.  173. 
Vaughan,  Thos.,  iii.  199. 
Vaus,  Sir  Wm.,  v.  104. 
Vaux,  Caister,  Norfolk,  i.  298 ;    iv.   109, 

289,  292  ;  V.  77.  94  ;  vi.  74,  190. 
Vaux,  John,  Parson  of  Eddingthorpe,  ii. 

10,  31. 
Vaux,  Sir  Nicholas,  vi.  187. 
Ve,  France,  ii.  6. 
Venetian     Ambassador's     comments    on 

English  life  in  time   of  Henry  vii.  i. 

326-327. 
Venice,  Gold  of,  vi.  173. 
Venor,  Eliz.,  iv.  245. 
Vere,   Aubrey  de,   son  of  John,  twelfth 

Earl  of  Oxford,  iii.  218. 
Vere,  John  de,  etc.     See  Oxford. 
Vere,  Dame  Margaret,  v.  176. 
Vere  (Veer),  Sir  Rich.,  ii.  144. 
Vere  (Veer),  Sir  Robt.,  iii.  269. 
Vere,  Thos.,  r.  94. 
Vergeant,  Master,  iii.  209,  228. 
Vergil,  Polydore,  i.  327-328. 
Vergraunt,  Dr.,  iv.  271. 
Vermus,  France,  ii.  6. 
Vemeuil  (Vernoile),  France,  i.  56 ;  ii.  6  ; 

iii.  59,  63. 
Vemicle,  a  Prayer  to  the,  vi,  66. 
Vernoile    (Vernon  ?),   suz  Seyne,   i.    5^  J 

ii.  6. 


Verses  by  a  Lady,  vi.  67*69. 

Vescy,  Lord,  iii.  109. 

Veuter  (Veutre),  Sir  Rich.,  ii.  249. 

Veyl, ,  wife  of,  l  267  ;  v.  119. 

Vileine  Castle,  France,  ii.  6. 

Villers,  Johan,  ii.  50. 

Vincent  (Vyncent),  John,  of  Bcntley,  iii. 

126. 
Vincent,  Sir  John,  iii.  72. 
Vincent,  the  Plumber,  v.  305. 
Vire,  Normandy,  ii.  5. 
Vive  (Vicomte  ?),  Saint  Sauveur  de,  ii.  5. 
Vyncent.     See  Vincent. 
VynoUys,  Burd,  ii.  50. 
Vyall,  Thos.,  v.  82  ;  vi.  186. 

W.  C,  iv.  39. 

Wacy,  John,  ii.  65. 

Wady,  John,  iv.  279. 

Waghan.     See  Vaughan. 

Wager  of  Law,  iii.  107  note  3. 

Waififord,  ii.  325. 

Wakefield,  Battle  of,  i.  193,  194,  201  ;  iii. 

249  note  8,  266. 
Wakeleyn,  John,  iv.  280. 
Walcot  (Wolcote),  Norfolk,  iv.  13,  70. 
Walcots,  Little  Snoring,  ii.  332  (bis),  333. 
Walden,  Thos.  Netter  of.     See  Netter. 
Wales,  i.  171,  174,  182  ;   ii.  113  ;    iii.  92, 

234,  300,  302,  307,  312 ;  iv.  32,  58,  96, 

131  ;  V.  203. 
Waleys,  John,  iv.  279. 
Waleys,  Rich.,  iv.  279. 
Walgrave,  Lady,  widow  of  Sir  Rich.,  i. 

287  ;  V.  215,  216-218,  274. 
Walgrave,  Sir  Thos.,  v.  24,  137. 
Walkere,  Wm.,  vi.  131. 
Walle,  Geoffrey,  ii.  39. 
Waller,  Rich.,  iii.  6 ;  iv.  292 ;  v.  94. 
Wallerswyke,  ii.  3. 
Walles,  Southwark,  v.  170. 
Wallingford,  i.  60,  277  ;  v.  131. 

Walsam, ,  ii.  254.     See  also  Walsham. 

Walsam,  Catherine,  ii.  86. 

Walsam,  Joan,  v.  140,  141. 

Walsam,  Rich. ,  Sexton  of  Norwich  Priory, 

vi.  96. 
Walsch,  Robt.,  of  Colby,  vi.  26,  27,  31. 
Walsh  (Walysh),  Thos.,  ii.  62,  63,  75- 
Walsham,  Norfolk,  ii.  41,  63,  246,  271  ; 

iii.  197. 
Walsham,   North,  i.  27;  ii.  33,  63;  vi. 

70. 
Walsham,  South,  i.  265  ;    iv.  73  ;   v.  114, 

299. 
Walsham, ,  of  Chancery,  iii.  196.    See 

also  Walsam. 
Walsham,  Jane,  iv.  85. 
Walsham,  John,  iv.  70. 

315 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


> 


Walsingham,  Norfolk,  i.  35,  40,  91,  92,  93, 
205,  207,  245,  248,  304,  313,  315  ;  ii.  55, 
76-77,  116,  145,  179,191,209,210,211, 
236  {bis),  238,  239,  240,  242,  320,  332  ; 
iii.  65,  79,  112,  128,  206,  286,  291,  310, 
314;  iv.  172,  179,  224;  V.  28,  31,  109, 
144,  167,  168,  172,  229,  239;  vi.  I,  44, 
121. 

Walsingham,  Bailiff  of,  iii.  290. 

Walsingham,  Friars  Minors  of,  ii.  67  ;  iii. 
228. 

Walsingham,  Prior  of,  ii.  39,  200,  216, 
331-332  {bis). 

Walsingham  Way,  v.  167. 

Walsyngham,  Wm.,  ii.  62. 

Walter,  Sir,  ii.  64. 

Walters,  Batcheler,  v.  81. 

Walters,  Friar,  vi.  36. 

Waltham,  iv.  94. 

Walthamby,  Winchester,  v.  ill,  171. 

Walysch.     See  Walsh. 

Wangeford,  Wm.,  ii.  81 ;  iv.  292;  v.  94. 

Wantown  Gapp,  ii.  60. 

Wappys,  v.  61. 

Warbeck,  Perkin,  i.  316. 

Ware,  Herts,  i.  160,  165 ;  ii.  179 ;  iii.  32. 

Warham,  iii.  45. 

Warham,  Wm.,  Bishop  of  London,  vi.  170. 

Warkworth  (Warcoth),  i.  215  ;  iv.  60. 

Warles,  John,  ii.  187. 

Warns  (Waryns),  Henry,  i.  310;  v.  208, 
209;  vi.  15. 

Waron,  Martin,  ii.  53. 

Warren,  Earl  oi{temp.  Edw.  i.),  iv.  249. 

Warwick,  i.  171,  179,  250;  iii.  86,  92. 

Warwick  (Warwyk), ,  iv.  225. 

Warwick,  Ann,  Countess  of,  i.  271,  272 ; 
V.  188-189. 

Warwick,  Guy  of,  i.  323  ;  vi.  65. 

Warwick,  Henry  de  Beauchamp,  Earl  of 
(1444-5),  "•  78. 

Warwick,  Rich,  de  Beauchamp,  Earl  of 
(1401-39),  ii.  8,  20,  34-38,  78. 

Warwick,  Rich.  Nevill,  Earl  of  (1449-71), 
*the  King- Maker, '  i.  99,  135,  159,  161, 
162,  163,  167,  171,  176,  177,  178,  179, 
180,  181,  182-190,  194,  201,  215,  224, 
226,  243,  244,  246-250,  257,  259,  260, 
271,  277,  292,  328-329,  331,  336  {bis), 
337-338;  ii.  117,  148,  297,  298,  332 
{^«>).  333;  iii-  25,  27,  28,  30,  31,  32, 
33,  44,  50,  75,  86,  87,  92,  118,  125,  127, 
130,  189,  196,  199,  204,  212,  221-222, 
226,  228,  234,  239,  243,  246,  266,  272, 
274,  299 ;  iv.  8,  22-23,  32,  44,  50,  52, 
57,  58,  59,  60,  207,  215,  304  ;  V.  28,  35, 
63,  70  {bis),  71,  80,  100;  Secretary  of,  1 
iii.  96  ;  Apothecary  of,  v.  207.  j 

Waryn,  Barth. ,  Parson  of  Trunch,  ii.  29.     ! 


Waryn,  John,  ii.  195. 

Waryn,  Piers,  i.  218;  iv.  137,  144. 

Waryn,  Robert,  iii.  69. 

Waryns.     See  Warns. 

Waserer,  Agnes,  vi.  209. 

Waserer,  Thos.,  vi.  209. 

Wasnes, ,  i.  82. 

Wasse,  Rich.,  vi.  184. 

Water,  Batchelor,  Carmelite  Friar  of  Nor- 
wich, V.  106,  298 ;  vi.  77. 

Water  (Watyr),  John,  vi.  19,  57. 

Water,  Thos.,  iv.  205. 

Waterford,  i.  186. 

Waterman,  Nich.,  ii.  172;  iii.  81. 

Waterman,  Wm.,  iv.  154,  238. 

Watford,  Herts,  i.  161 ;  iii.  25. 

Waxham,  Norfolk,  ii.  49 ;  iii.  212. 

Waxstonesham,  Norfolk,  ii.  51. 

Waynesford, ,  of  London,  iii.  307. 

Waynflet,  John,  iii.  299,  300. 

Waynflete,  Wm.  of.  Bishop  of  Winchester 
(1447-86),  Lord  Chancellor  (1456-60),  i. 

43,  73,  99,  143,  153,  157,  172,  173,  196, 
198,  199,  241,  258,  273,  276,  284,  294, 
295,  298,  335,  336;  ii.  90,  158,  190; 
iii.  13,  108,  no.  III,  112,  128,  165, 
166,  191,  192,  194,  196,  197,  204,  212, 
243  ;  iv.  Ill,  288,  289,  290,  292,  293  ; 
V.  20,  64,  67,  71,  72,  76,  77,  81,  82,  91, 
92  {bis),  94,  107,  116,  132,  136,  142, 
146,  147,  148,  162,  170,  171,  172,  176, 
183,  188,  189,  216,  234,  235,  301  ;   vi. 

13,  35,  39- 

Wayte, ,  Old,  v.  153. 

Wayte,  Wm.,i.  83,  84,  89;  ii.  174-177. 
205,  207-209,  210-21 1 ;  iii,  210;  iv.  148, 

Webster,  Wat,  iv.  228. 

Weche,  Alice,  iv.  225. 

Wechingham.     See  Witchingham. 

Wechyngham,  Dan  John,  vi.  96. 

'  Wedyrby's  matter, '  ii.  49. 

Weeting,  Norfolk,  iv.  39. 

Weggs,  iii.  263. 

Wekeys, ,  iii.  1 34  ;  iv.  85. 

Welle  (Wells  by  the  Sea,  Norfolk?),  vi. 
116;  Parson  of.  i.  116;  ii.  106. 

Welles,  Leo,  Lord,  ii.  119,  120. 

Welles,  Lord,  iii.  263,  267,  268,  269. 

Welles,  Sir  Robt,  v.  70. 

Wellis,  John,  iii.  109,  155;  iv.  33,  58;  v.  25. 

Wells,  Thos.,  ii.  106. 

Welonby,  ii.  52. 

Welpdalle,  Sir  John,  iii.  307. 

Welshmen,  The,  v.  107. 

Wendlyng,  Abbot  of,  ii.  216. 

Wenlock,  Sir  John,  Knight,  Lord  Wen- 
lock  (1461-71),  i.  182;  iii.  28,  33,  199, 
312;  iv.  8,  50;  V.  104. 

Wenlok,  R.,  ii.  51. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Wenstall  (Wynstall),  Henry,  iv.  104,  239, 

240,  241. 
Wensum  River,  i.  219. 
Wentworth,  Henry,  iii.  no;  v.  151. 
Wentworth,  John,  v.  202. 
Wentworth,  Lady,  ii.  235. 
Wentworth  (Wentforde),  Sir  Philip,  i.  337- 

338  ;   ii.  322,  323  ;    iii.  4,  6,  19,  20,  21, 

33,  34.  35,  37,  53,  76,  77,  85,  9©,  102, 
103,  108,  112,  114,  135,  141,  196,  199- 
202,  225,  239,  248,  308. 

Wenyngton,  Robt.,  ii.  103-105. 

Weseter.     See  Worcester. 

Wessyll,  At.     See  Entwistle. 

West,  Thos.,  iii.  69, 70,  200;  iv.  292;  v.  94. 

West,  Wm.,  iv.  279. 

West  Acre,  Norfolk,  Prior  of,  ii.  215. 

Westerham,  i.  126. 

Westby,  Edmund,  iii.  27. 

Westhawe,  Dr.,  iii.  196. 

Westminster  (Westmonasterium),  i.  57  and 
note,  68,  93,  127,  129,  136,  147,  159, 
167,  175,  176,  179,  189,  190,  244;  ii. 
159,  165,  166;  iii.  125;  V.  19;  vi.  119; 
St.  James's  Hospital  at,  iii.  44;  Star 
Chamber  at,  i.  59,  336 ;  vi.  152  ;  King's 
Mews  at,  iii.  44  ;  King's  Receipt  at,  iii. 
60  ;  King's  Chequer,  or  Exchequer  at, 
iii.  61,  62  ;  King  s  Palace  at,  i.  62,  63, 
80  ;  ii.  172  ;  V.  7  ;  vi.  106  ;  Sanctuary 
at,  V.  85,  III,  112  ;  a  monk  of,  v.  186. 

Westminster  Bars,  i.  165  ;  iii.  48. 

Westminster  Bridge,  iii.  228. 

Westminster  Hall,  i.  233  ;  iii.  210  ;  v.  91 ; 
vi.  152. 

Westmoreland,  i.  148. 

Weston,  ii.  145  ;  vi.  61. 

Weston  Baldock,  Herts,  vi.  80. 

Westthirrock  (West  Thurrock),  iv.  188. 

Westvale,  Geoff.,  v.  72. 

Westwood,  Kent,  iv.  309,  311. 

Wetherby.     See  Wedyrby. 

Wetherby,  Thos.,  ii.  49. 

Wethewell, ,  ii.  331. 

Weting,  vi.  65. 

Wevenhoe.     See  Wivenhoe. 

Weverston  (Suffolk  ?),  Park  of,  v.  5. 

Whale  on  coast  of  Norfolk,  i.  314. 

Whal,  Abraham,  ii.  293. 

Wharles, ,  ii.  219. 

Wharton  (Qwharteyn),  Alex.,  vi.  56,  58. 

Wheat,  price  of,  iv.  9. 

Wheatacre,  Norfolk,  iii.  263. 

Wheler,  Henry,  v.  24. 

Wherwilles,  vi.  36. 

Whethill, ,  v.  253,  254. 

Whetley  (Wheteley),  John,  i.  296,  303  ; 
V.  117,  250,  282,  310,  317,  318,  319, 
320-323  {bis) ;  vi.  25. 


Whevenho.     See  Wiycnhoc. 
Whcyth,  ii.  60. 

White, ,  ii.  235-236  ;  v.  304  ;  vL  1 53. 

White,  of  Metfield,  vi.  103. 

White,  Bartholomew,  ii.  278 ;  iv.  105. 

White,  John,  iii.  237. 

White,    Master,    a    servant    of    Cardinal 

Kemp,  ii.  158,  160-161,  162,  170. 
White,  Simon,  ri.  143. 
White,  Wm.,  ii.  226,  227,  307,  308;   iii. 

239  ;  iv.  70,  105  ;  V.  23a 
White  Friars,  Proctor  of,  at  Rome,  vi.  35. 
Whitewell,  Thos.,  ii.  42. 
Whiting  (Whytenge),  Thos.,  iv.  279. 
Whitingham,  Robt.     See  Wyttyngham. 
Whitingham,  Sir  Robt.,  iii.   50,  51,  76, 

306-307,  312  ;    V.  104 ;    widow  of,  iii. 

69  {bis),  71. 
Whittock's  Medc  (Maid?),  ii.  162. 
Whode,  Edward  of,  ii.  92. 
Whymberg,  Eliz.,  vi.  208. 
Whynberg,  Robt.,  v.  244-245. 
Whynne,  John,  vi.  192. 
Whynnes,  in  Carleton,  vi.  75. 

Whytteby, ,  iv.  279. 

Wickham  Market,  Suffolk,  iii.  141. 
Wicklewood  (Wykelwode),  ii.  91. 
Widville.     Su  Woodville. 

Wigge, ,  iii.  87. 

Wiggenhall,  Norfolk,  iv.  42. 
Wight,  Isle  of,  ii.  105  ;  vi.  160. 
Wighton,  Norfolk,  i.  32;  ii.  12. 
Wighton-on-the-Wold,  Yorks,  ii.  114,  115  ; 

iii.  109. 
Wigorniensis.     See  Worcester,  W. 
Wikes.     See  Wyke. 
Wilkins,  John,  i.  336. 
Willerby,  Ralph,  iii.  28. 
Willeys,  John,  iv.  123. 
William,  iii.  144,  269. 
William,  the  Priest,  ii.  24. 
William,  nephew  of  Friar  Brack  ley,  iii. 

221. 
William,  Sir,  a  Canon  of  Hempton  Abbey, 

vi.  113. 
Williamson,  Sir  Robt.,  Vicar  of  Paston, 

iv.  13,  23-24. 
Willingham,  Suffolk,  ii.  11. 
Willoughby  de  Broke.     See  Broke. 
Willoughby,  Sir  Henry,  vi.  102,  187. 
Willoughby,  John,  ii.  44. 
Willoughby,    Margaret,    sister    of    Lord 

Robert,  and  wife  of  W.  Oldhall,  ii.  33. 
Willoughby,  Maud,  widow  of  Lord  Robt., 

iii.  74. 
Willoughby,  Rich.  Welles,  Lord,  reported 

killed  at  Towton,  iii.  267,  268,  269. 
Willoughby,    Robt.,    Lord    (1409-52),   i. 

337  ;  ii.  8,  33,  120;  iii.  50,  59,  73.74. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Willoughby,  Sir  Robt.,  v.  105. 

Willoughby,  Sir  Wm.,  iv.  68. 

Willyot,  John,  ii.  63. 

Wilson,  ,  vi.  23. 

Wilton, ,  iii.  1 14. 

Wilton,  Catherine,  ii.  269;  vi.  178. 

Wilton,  Henry,  iii.  2,  38 ;  iv.  146. 

Wilton,  John,  ii.  269,  310,  311. 

Wiltshire,  i.  76;  ii.  161,  162,  179;  insur- 
rection in,  ii.  162. 

Wiltshire,  Lady,  ii.  188. 

Wiltshire,  Earl  of,  i.  154. 

Wiltshire  and  Ormond,  Jas.  Butler,  Earl 
of.  Lord  Treasurer  (1455  and  1458-60), 
i.  134,  161,  162, 189,  199,  205,  287,  336; 
ii.  324,  328 ;  iii.  25,  28,  32,  88,  138,  191, 
197,  213,  234,  268,  269,  271. 

Wiltshire,  John  Stafford,  Earl  of,  v.  186. 

Winch  (Wynche),  Norfolk,  a  seat  of  the 
Earl  of  Oxford,  ii.  150,  164,  165,  185, 
201,  205,  210,  275. 

Winch  (Wynche), ,  iv.  279. 

Winchelsea,  i.  109. 

Winchester,  i.  57,  75;  ii.  156,  157;  v. 
109,  III. 

Winchester,  Bishop  of.    Su  Waynflete,  W. 

Windacs.  Grappling  irons  for  cross  bows, 
ii.  loi. 

Windefeld,  Sir  John,  iv.  205. 

Windham.     See  Wyndham. 

Windsor,  i.  133,  143,  145,  172;  ii.  295, 
297,  320 ;  iii.  40 ;  iv.  246,  247  ;  v.  28, 
131.  137,  290;  vi.  95,  III,  174. 

Windsor,  St.  George's  Chapel,  iii.  154. 

Windsor,  Dean  and  Chapter  of,  vi.  27. 

Windsor, ,  vi.  129. 

Windsor,  Henry,  i.  151,  152,  163,  322, 
338;  iii.  43-45,  87-89,  114,  131-133, 
311-312. 

Wingfield,  Suffolk,  v.  86 ;  vi.  75. 

Wingfield, ,  iii.  84  ;  v.  202 ;  vi.  65. 

Wingfield,  Dame  Annie,  vi.  121. 

Wingfield  (Wyngfelde),  John,  iii.  102. 

Wingfield  (Wyngfelde),  Sir  John,  iii.  259; 
iv.  152. 

Wingfield  (Wyngfelde),  Robt.,  ii.  335  ;  iv. 
126. 

Wingfield,  Sir  Robt.,  ii.  47 ;  v.  132,  149, 
246,  249. 

Wingfield,  Thos.,  i.  245;  iii.  278,  314; 
V.  30,  31,  32,  50,  52,  107,  108. 

Wingfield,  Wm.,  v.  108. 

Winstall.     See  Wenstall. 

Winter  (Wynter),  Edmund,  ii.  216;  iv.  70. 

Winter,  John,  iii.  156;  iv.  125. 

Winter,  Walter,  vi.  180. 

Winterbourne  (Wyntborne  or  Winter- 
ton?),  Thos.,  LL.D.,  iv.  103,  104,  188. 

Winterton,  Norfolk,  i.  28;  ii.  51,  65,  134, 

318 


135,  146;  iv.  269,  292;  V.  76,  92,  222, 
283,  304,  305,  306 ;  vi.  190,  193. 

Winterton,  Thos.     See  Winterbourne. 

Winterton,  Wm.,  vi.  200. 

Wisbeach  (Wisbyche),  Cambs,  i.  248; 
iii.  296. 

Witchingham,  Blanche,  iii.  130. 

Witchingham,  John,  vi.  96. 

Witchingham  (Wychyngham  or  Weching- 
ham),  Edmund,  ii.  63,  199,  220,  251, 
252,  266,  275-276 ;  iii.  260-262 ;  iv.  30, 
172,  271. 

Witchingham,  Margaret,  ii.  275  note  2. 

Witchingham,  Nich.,  ii.  275  note  2. 

Witchingham,  Norfolk,  i.  330,  331 ;  iii. 
292. 

Witham,  Essex,  vi.  182. 

Witton,  Norfolk,  ii.  63,  70,  269,  308 ;  iii. 
46,  129,  133  ;  vi.  4,  190. 

Wivenhoe  (Wevenhoo),  ii.  144,  226. 

Wivenhoe,  Essex,  seat  of  the  Earl  of  Ox- 
ford, i.  140;  ii.  144,  145,  152,  226,  294, 
295,  302 ;  iii.  259  {bis),  275. 

Wiveton,  Norfolk,  vi.  199,  200. 

Wix.     See  Wykes. 

Woburn  (Waburn),  Prior  of,  vL  144. 

Wodborne,  Thos.,  iv.  150. 

Wode.     Wild,  furious,  mad,  iii.  39. 

Wode.     See  Wood. 

Wodehous,  Sir  Edw.,  v.  105. 

Wodehous,  Harry,  ii.   173,  174,  183;   v. 

239. 
Wodehouse  (Wodows),  John,  ii.  173 ;  iv. 

84,  256. 
Wodesyde,  iii.  264. 
Wodhalle  Manor,  Pagrave,  ii.  31. 

Wodhows, ,  ii.  273  ;  v.  89. 

Wodhowse,  Mr.,  v.  321. 

Wodlark,    Robt.,   provost  of  St.   Mary's 

College,  Cambridge,  iv.  87. 
Wodows.     See  Wodehouse. 
Wodvyle  (Woodville). 
Wolcote,  iv.  125. 

Wollysby, ,  ii.  331. 

Wolman,  (alias  Harple),  Ralph,  Parson  of 

Cressingham,  ii.  31, 
Wolston,  vi.  185. 
Wolterton,  Norfolk,  vi.  208. 
Wolton,  Sir  Thos.  of,  vi.  102,  187. 
Wolverton,  Kent,  iv.  309. 
Wolvesby,  Thos.,  iv.  224. 
Wonges,  The,  v.  167. 
Wood  (Wode),  John,  ii.  215 ;  iii.  103  ;    v. 

154. 
Wood,  Robt.  of,  ii.  215. 
Wood,  W.,  V.  147,  152,  181,  185. 
Wood,  Dalling,  vi.  208. 
Woodhall  (Woodhouse,  etc.).      See  Wod- 

hall,  Wodhows,  etc. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Woodhall,  Norfolk,  vi.  96. 

Woodmill  (Wodemyl)  in  Bacton,  iv.  80 ; 
V.  298. 

Wood  Norton,  Church  of  St.  Peter,  vi. 
206. 

Wood  Rising  (Woderysyng),  v.  228. 

Woodstock,  i.  116. 

Woodville,  Sir  Anthony,  Lord  Scales 
(1461-9),  Earl  Rivers  (1469-83),  i.  184, 
225,  227,  229,  238,  239,  245,  263,  268, 
299,  322,  329 ;  iii-  203,  204,  267,  268, 
269;  iv.  60,  106,  168,  257,  275,  279, 
298;  V.  16,  17,  18-19  (*»V),  24,  30,  31, 
32,  33,  106,  110,116,  117,  128,  131, 157, 
188,  203,  258;  vi.  55,  56;  reported 
killed  at  Towton,  iii.  267,  268,  269. 

Woodville  (Wydewell),  Edmund,  iv.  12. 

Woodville,  Sir  Edward  (called  Lord 
Woodville),  vi.  81,  iii. 

Woodville,  Elizabeth,  Queen  of  Edward 
IV.,  i.  224,  243,  248,  266,  340;  ii.  47 
note  2;  V.  14,  24,  28,  30,  34,  61,  85, 
112,  135,  137,  179,  181,  310;  vi.  42. 

Woodville,  Sir  John,  i.  245,  250;  iv.  275; 

V.  30,  31.  32- 

Woodville,  Lionel,  brother  of  the  Queen, 
i.  320 ;  vi.  12. 

Woodville,  Margaret,  sister  to  the  Queen, 
i.  312;  iv.  217. 

Woodville,  Sir  Richard,  created  Baron 
Rivers  1448 ;  Earl  Rivers  1466,  lord 
Treasurer  (1466-9);  beheaded  1469,  i. 
184-185,  224,  245,  250,  337,  340;  ii.  47, 
150;  iii.  203,  204;  iv.  189,  305;  V.  19 
{dis),  24,  30,  31,  32. 

Wool,  price  of,  iv.  172. 

Woolterton,  vi.  208. 

Worcester,  i.  81,  180. 

Worcester  (Wyrcestre  or  Wysseter,  other- 
wise called  Botoner),  Wm.,  i.  52,  76, 
151-153.  163,  184,  185,  197,  198,  216, 
234,  236,  241,  262,  286,  338-339;  ii. 
145,  188,  192,  193.  320-322,  323-325. 
331.  333-334,  335;  »»•  16,  32,  36,  41- 
42,43,  50,  51-52,  53  (M,  54.  60,  66-67 
(dt's),  68-69,  71-72,  76, 96  (Wigorniensis); 
iii.  104-106,  107,  109,  114,  I15-116, 116- 
118, 125, 126  ((5w),  131-132,133-134, 135, 
136,  145,  165,  166,  191,  192,  198,  203, 
205-207,  212,  213,  214,  217,  229,  230, 
253.  254.  305  ;  iv.  2,  12,  27,  32,  50,  52, 
87,  89,  102,  103,  104,  105,  113,  128-129, 
134.  155.  181-185,  189,  232,  233,  235, 
239,  241,  244,  255  (*w),  274,  280-281, 
284-286,  293-295,  303;  v.  67,  71,  72, 
92,  103,  152,  156,  170,  176,  313-315. 
322  ;  vi.  61-64,  66. 

Worcester,  Margaret,  wife  of,  iii.  203, 
207  ;  vi.  61,  92,  64. 


Worcester,  Wm.,  father  of  preceding,  i. 

152. 
Worcester,  John  Tiptoft,   Earl  of  (Lord 

Treasurer  in  1452-56,  and  1462-64),  i. 

136,  158,  336;   ii.  188;   iii.  118,  201, 

202 ;   iv.  37-38,  43,  45,  47,  60,  256  ;  v. 

85. 
Wormegay  (Wyrmegay), ,  iii.  84,  210. 

See  also  Wremmegay. 

Worsop, ,  iii.  102. 

Worsted,  Norfolk,  i.   229,  307 ;   iv.  188 

note  2  ;  v.  109  ;   vi.  43  ;   Curate  of,  iii. 

97. 
Worsted,  Wm.,  ii.  26. 
Worsted  manufacture,  v.  109. 
Worsted,  fine  as  silk,  iv.  188,  195. 
Worsted,  Merchant  of,  v.  109. 
Worsteler,  Greg,  iv.  228. 
Wortes  (otherwise  called  Paston),  John, 

i.  33;  ii.  21-26,  27-28,  29. 
Wotton,  Wm.,  ii.  64,  138. 
Wrantham,  Wm.,  v.  306. 
Wremmegay's  wife,  vi.  43. 
Wrene,  Adam,  iv.  150,  151. 
Wrenham,  iii.  217. 
Wrentham,  ii.  9. 
Wright,  John,  vi.  186. 
Wright,  Rich.,  ii.  216;  iii.  298. 
Wrightes  of  Smalbergh,  place  called,  iii. 

195- 

Writell,  Essex,  i.  171  ;  iii.  86,  92. 

Writing,  cost  of,  v.  2-3,  4. 

Writtill,  Master,  i.  252  ;  v.  40,  41,  46,  47, 
50-52  {bis),  53,  57,  58. 

Wrothe, ,  iv.  83. 

Wrottisle,  Walter,  v.  iii. 

Wroughton,  Sir  Christopher,  vi.  187. 

Wroxham,  Norfolk,  iii.  7 ;  iv.  284. 

Wryte,  Roger,  ii.  271. 

Wulff,  Robt.,  vi.  16. 

Wulstan,  ancestor  of  Paston  Family,  iv. 
249. 

Wyat,  SirThos.,  i.  26. 

Wyatt  (Wyott),  Harry,  vi.  112. 

Wychsave.     Vouchsafe,  iv.  223. 

Wychyngham.     See  Witchingham. 

Wycombe,  i.  172. 

Wydevile.     See  Woodville. 

Wydwell,  ,  Bailiff  of  Yarmouth,  iv. 

47,  70. 

Wyfeles.     Battle  axes,  ii.  112. 
I  Wyghte,    Robt.,   (alias   Farbuschour),  ii. 
i       187,  188. 

'  Wyghtton,  Edmund,  ii.  215. 
I  Wyke  (Wykes  or  Wekis),  John,  Usher  of 
I  the  King's  (Edward  iv.)  Chamber,  i. 
217-218,  221,  225,  226,  229;  iii.  304; 
I  iv.  36-37,  39,  127-128,  168-169,  216- 
I       217  ;  V.  98,  128. 


THE  PASTON  LETTERS 


Wykes  (Wix),  Wm.  and  John,  servants  of 
the  Pastons,  iv.  71,  136,  142,  143,  144, 
155,  160,  161,  162,  165,  191-192,  202, 
203,  221-222,  282;  V.  67,  97,  109,  231  ; 
vi.  181-182. 

Wylles, ,  ii.  282. 

Wylleys,  v.  1 17. 

Wylly,  Robt.,  iv.  70,  I02,  104. 

Wylton's  wife,  ii.  91. 

Wymond,  John,  vi.  30. 

Wymondham.     See  Wyndham. 

Wymondham  (Wyndham),  Norfolk,  iii. 
80;  V.  152,  263;  vi.  30,  75,  192,  195. 

Wymondham,  Abbot  of,  v.  230. 

Wynch.     See  Winch. 

Wyndham, ,  vi.  186. 

Wyndham  (Wymondham),  John,  of  Fel- 
brigg,  i.  338;  ii.  88,  96,  175,  177,  188, 
192,  202,  210,  218,  223,  234,  249,  251, 
252,  288,  289,  308  ;  iii.  12,  133  {bis), 
196,  197,  222,  227,  228,  248,  281,  286, 
309;  iv.  95,  209-210,  215;  v.  74,  146, 
177. 

Wyndham,  Sir  John,  vi.  102,  187. 

Wynds.  An  engine  for  raising  stones,  v. 
66. 

Wyngfeld.     See  Wingfield. 

Wynne,  John,  vi.  69. 

Wynsalaw  (?)  The,  de  Swysto,  ii.  22. 

Wynstall.     See  Wenstall. 

Wynston, ,  ii.  188. 

Wyntbourne.     See  Winterbourne. 

Wynter.     See  Winter. 

Wynterton.     See  Winterton. 

Wyoth,  Rich.,  ii.  30-31. 

Wyrcestre.     See  Worcester. 

Wyrmegay.     See  Wormegay. 

Wysman,   ,   v.    128,    321,    323 ;    vi. 

100. 

Wysseter.     See  Worcester. 

Wytherley,  John,  iv.  144. 

Wythom,  Hugh,  ii.  118. 

Wyttyngham, ,  iii.  234. 

Yarmouth  (Jernemouth),  Much  or  Great 
Yarmouth,  i.  27,  118,  202,  213,  287, 
298,  314,  316;  ii.  9»  29,  39,  97,  136, 
176,  312;  iii.  12,  100,  117,  128,  145, 
148,  162,  164,  266,  283  ;  iv.  37,  38,  41, 
43,  44,  45,  46  {bis),  47,  48,  70,  102,  103, 
134,  136,  230,  236,  237,  238,  239,  240, 
242,  243,  244,  268,  269,  284,  286,  292  ; 

V.  49,  55,  150,  154,  155,  156,  190,  252, 

304  ;  vi.  21,  69,  91,  139,  147,  153,  155, 

183. 
Yarmouth,    Bailiffs   of,    ii.    188 ;    iv.    37, 

246-247;  vi.  138-139,  153-154  (^^J)- 
Yarmouth,  Friars  of,  ii.  67 ;  iii.  152 ;  vi. 

49. 

320 


Yarmouth,  White  Friars  or  Carmelites,  ii. 

30 ;  V.  72. 
Yarmouth,  Parish  Church  of,  iii.  152-153, 

154. 

Yarmouth,  John,  Parson  of  (?),  ii.  23 
note  I. 

Yarmouth,  Wm.  Bokenham,  Prior  of,  iii. 
162. 

Yarmouth,  Priory  of  the  Parish  Church, 
iii.  152. 

Yarmouth,  Rich.,  Monk  of,  vi.  189. 

Yarmouth,  Little,  or  South  Town,  iv.  284 ; 
vi.  49. 

Yarmouth,  Little,  Austeners  (Austin 
Friars)  of,  iv.  123,  239,  244. 

Yarmouth,  Earl  of,  ii.  92. 

Yarmouth,  Sir  Robert  Paston,  Viscount, 
afterwards  Earl  of,  i.  25,  27. 

Yarmouth,  Wm.  Paston,  second  Earl  of, 
i.  27-28. 

Yates,  John,  ii.  157,  218. 

Yatys, ,  iv.  223. 

Yaxham  (Yeaxham),  Norfolk,  v.  300. 

Yaxley,  John,  vi.  169. 

Yelverton,  Anne.     See  Paston,  Anne. 

Yelverton,  Eleanor,  daughter  of  Wm.,  iii. 
210  note  I. 

Yelverton,  John,  vi.  43. 

Yelverton,  John,  junior,  iii.  227. 

Yelverton,  Wm. ,  afterwards  Sir  Wm.,  Jus- 
tice of  the  King's  Bench  (1444-70),  i.  83, 
85,  89,  90,  91,  153  note,  196,  209,  210, 
211,  212,  216,  218,  221,  224,  225,  230, 
234,  236,  242,  243,  244,  245,  251,  258, 
295,  297,  298;  ii.  69,  76-77,  94,  145, 
168,  174,  176,  177,  181,  182,  183,  186, 
188,  189-190  {bis),  191,  193,  196,  201, 
202,  203,  207,  208,  209,  210,  211,  212, 
215,  216,  222,  223,  225,  226,  236,  237, 
238,  239,  240,  252,  253,  288;  iii.  10,  II, 
16,  17,  45.  47  {bis),  48,  69,  78,  84,  85, 
92,  96,  no,  120,  139, 140,  142,  144,  165, 
166,  197,  209-212,  225,  227,  229,  232, 
248,  263,  276,  308-309,  310;  iv.  II,  12, 
15,  16,  19,  20,  26, 36,  51,  56,  60,  68,  71, 
77,  91,  93,  loi,  102,  103,  104,  105,  114, 
126,  134,  135,  148-149,  161,  162,  169, 
171,  179,  181  {bis),  198,  199,  208,  236- 
245,  256,  257,  265,  266,  268,  273,  274, 
284-286,  292,  302,  303,  305 ;  V.  5,  10, 
II,  16,  22,  64,  70,  71,  72  {bis),  91,  92, 
94,  128,  129,  143,  176,  242;  vi.  19,  75; 
wife  of,  iii.  209,  211. 

Yelverton,  Wm.,  son  of  the  Judge,  iii. 
210  ;  V.  10,  90.  (The  person  mentioned 
in  some  of  these  references  may  be  the 
Justice's  grandson.) 

Yelverton,  Wm. ,  grandson  of  the  Judge, 
i.    226,    284-285;    V.    199,   288,    310; 


GENERAL  INDEX 


vi.  51,  115,   136,   143;   servant  of,  vi. 

Yemmys,  Wm.,  ii.  60. 

Yenneys,  Rich.,  ii.  211. 

Yernessey.     See  Jersey. 

Yllynworthe.     See  Illingworth. 

Ymay,  Agnes,  ii.  53. 

Yng,  Master,  iii.  72. 

Yngloos.     See  Inglos. 

Yngylthorp.     See  Ingoldesthorp. 

Yon, ,  iii.  74. 

Yong,  John,  iii.  173,  249. 

Yonge,  Thos.,  i.  88,  ill ;  ii.  176;  iiL  70. 

Yonge,  Wm.,  iv.  228. 

York,  i.  131,  193,  194;  ii.  321  ;  iii.  267, 
269,  271,  27s  ;  iv.  loi  ;  V.  48,  49,  62, 
71,  82;  vi.  121,  134. 

York,  Archbishops  of,  i.  336.  See  also 
Nevill,  George  (1465-76);  Rotherham, 
Thos.  (1480-1500) ;  Booth,  Wm.  (1452- 
64). 

York,  Dan  Robt.  of,  ii.  20. 

York,  John,  i.  298. 

York,  Duchess  of.     See  Mowbray,  Anne. 

York,  Cecily,  Duchess  of,  wife  of  Duke 
Richard,  iii.  93,  no,  198,  203,  233,  266; 
iy.  83 ;  V.  236. 

York,  James,  Duke  of,  i.  27. 

York,  Richard,  Duke  of,  father  of  Edward 
IV.,  i.  44,  47,  50,  51,  68,  70,  78-88,  96- 
108,  IIS,  116,  120,  132,  133,  134-138, 
140,  145-150.  157-163,  164,  165,  166- 
175,  176,  177,  178,  179-180,  182,  186, 
187,   189,   190-193.  194.  206,  335-336, 


336-337;  "•  50,  174.  175.  176,  177  (*w). 
178,  180  {bis)t  184  (^ij),  186,  200,  206, 
280-281,  296,  297,  298,  321,  324,  329, 
331-332 ;  iii.  2,  4,  25-29,  30,  31,  32,  33, 
39,  44,  50,  75.  81,  86,  92,  108,  125,  199, 
203,  226,  233,  239,  244;  iv.  233; 
Memorial  to  Henry  vi.  before  the  Battle 
of  St.  Albans,  iii.  23-24 ;  at  the  Battle, 
iii. 2  5-29,  30,  31 ;  attainted  with  his  ad- 
herents, iii.  198-199;  Claim  to  the 
Crown  in  Parliament,  iii.  239. 

York,  Richard,  Duke  of,  son  of  Edward 
IV.,  V.  250,  310;  vi.  24. 

York,  Henry,  Duke  of,  afterwards  Henry 
VIII.,  i.  26,  270,  316,  329;  vL  151,  152. 

York,  Robt.,  Prior  of  Bromholm,  ii.  34. 

Yorkshire,  i.  148. 

Yorkists,  iii.  213.  ^ 

Yotton  (Yetton),  Dr.  John,  v.  14,  16,  309- 
310,  314. 

Young.     See  Yonge  and  Yong. 

Yoxhale,  Robt.,  iv.  178. 

'  Ypotis,*  the  Child,  Book  about,  vi.  66. 

Ypswell.     See  Ippyswell. 

Yve,  John,  iii.  286. 

Zealand,  vi.  141. 

Zealand,  Ships  of,  vi.  141. 

2^aland  Cloth,  iii.  180. 

Zelverton.     See  Yelverton. 

Zouche,  John,  Lord,  of  Harringworth,  v. 

184. 
Zouche,  Wm.,  iii.  28. 


THE    END 


VOL.  VI.-*X 


321 


ERRATA 

^  VOL.  I. 

Page  122,  line  15, /or  *  Bourges'  read  *  Bourg/ 

VOL.  II. 

Page  30,  line  7  from  bottom  of  No.  1 5,  for  '  No.  8,'  read  *  No.  13.' 
„      154,  add  to  footnote  3,  *He  was  slain  at  the  second  battle  of  St.  Albans  on 
the  17th  Feb.  146 1.' 

VOL.  in. 

Page  135,  footnote  i,  strike  out  the  words  after  'Elizabeth  Paston/  on  third 
line  from  the  bottom,  and  add^  *  was  no  longer  the  wife  of  Robert  Poynings,  but 
his  widow,  for  he  was  killed  at  the  second  battle  of  St.  Albans  on  the  17th  Feb.  1461.' 

VOL.  V. 

Page  310,  note  i,for  *  Henry  IV.'  r^^<i  'Edward  IV.' 

J,      314,  note  I.     This  suggestion  is  quite  a  mistake.     See  *  my  Robert '  in  the 
PS.,  p.  315. 


Printed  by  T.  and  A.  Constable,  Printers  to  His  Majesty 
at  the  Edinburgh  University  Press 


h 


DA      Paston  letters 

240        The  Paston  letter: 

P32 

1904 

v,6 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THIS  POCKET 

UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


{ 


