











Hundred of South Erpingham: Scothowe | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


An Essay towards a Topographical History of the County of Norfolk










Hundred of South Erpingham: Scothowe










An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6. 


Originally published by W Miller, London, 1807.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. Public Domain. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of South Erpingham: Scothowe', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6 (London,  1807), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol6/pp340-349 [accessed 3 July 2026].





Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of South Erpingham: Scothowe', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6(London,  1807), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol6/pp340-349.





Francis Blomefield. "Hundred of South Erpingham: Scothowe". An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6. (London, 1807), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol6/pp340-349.














Keyword Highlight

Search






In this section

SCOTHOWE
Scothowe Manor
Beaufoe's,
Fenhall, Aubries, Stubbes, and Gurnays,
Stubbes Manor.
Aubries Manor.
Fenhall Manor
Rectors of Scothowe.
Vicars

Footnotes



SCOTHOWE
Signifies the lot or portion on the hill, and such is the situation
of this village; did, as the Register of Holm abbey informs us, before
the Confessor's time, belong to Ulfwin or Alfwin, a Saxon nobleman, who gave it to that abbey, where it remained at the Confessor's survey, and was one of the manors appropriated for the monks
maintenance; (fn. 1) there was then 3 carucates of land, 2 in demean, and
[Page 341]
one among the tenants; the church had 14 acres of glebe, and the
manor was annually worth 40s. but was raised at the Conqueror's
survey to 3l. and then this village was a mile long, and half a mile and
20 perches broad, and paid 16d. to the geld, towards every 20s. raised
on the hundred.


The principal manor then belonged to the abbot, but there was
another, held of him by Ralf de Beaufoe, (fn. 2) and a third by Ketel,
a Dane, in the Confessor's time, and by Rainald Fitz-Ivo in the
Conqueror's; (fn. 3) and besides these, Alan Earl of Richmond had a freeman here; (fn. 4) and there was another part, which belonged to the
King's manor of Aylesham, till after 1274. (fn. 5) 



Scothowe Manor
Had the moiety of the advowson belonging to it, and the lords always
presented a rector to the mediety of the church, till 1231, when Michael de Ringesfield had it, and at his death, before 1266, it was united
to the other mediety with the manor, which was infeoffed in the
family sirnamed of the town, and was held of the Abbot in 1120 by
Jeffry de Scothowe, who had two brothers, Peter, who died
without issue, and Richard, who was also lord and patron; his
eldest son, Ralf de Scothowe, died issueless, and Peter his brother
had it, whose son, John de Scothowe, in 1279, sold the whole to
Bartholomew de Redham, who had the other manor, called




Beaufoe's,
From Ralf de Beaufoe, its lord; this descended with the other
moiety of the advowson to Osbern, ancestor of Bartholomew de
Redham, whose son, Stephen de Redham, had it, and Bartholomew, son of Stephen, joined the other manor to it; Stephen was
lord in 1239, and also in 1249, when there was a contest between him
and the Abbot, who required more customs for his fee held of him,
[Page 342]
than were ever demanded before; but this matter was settled, it being
agreed that Stephen should pay to the convent 50s. per annum, and
50 quarters of good barley by the stricken bushel, for all his fee of
this manor in Scothowe, Lammese, and Riston; this barley he was
annually to send to the abbey with eight men and two carriages, the
Abbot finding them their dinner that day: and he was to hold his land
in Redham at a quarter of a knight's fee, and pay half a mark of silver
for his land in Norton, as Holm Register informs me at fo. 86, 7;
and no sooner was this finished, but a new suit arose about the advowson of the (mediety) of the church, which belonged to this manor in
Henry the First's time, and was given by Osbern de Redham, and
confirmed by that King to the abbey, which had got it appropriated,
by Thomas Bishop of Norwich in 1231, at the death of the rector
then upon it; but that never took effect, for Stephen recovered it
wholly, and set aside the impropriation, all but the tithes of those his
own demeans, called Westfield, which extended from the hall, or
manor-house of Sir Hugh de Meliers; he was succeeded by Sir Bartholomew de Redham, Knt. his son and heir, who joined the former manor and advowson to it in 1279, and so the two medieties
united, and it was found that the manor was formerly held in capite,
but now was held of the Abbot in mesualty, the Abbot holding it in
the mesue, as part of his barony. In 1291 an agreement was made
between Sir Bartholomew and Sir Hugh Peverel of Melton, Knt.
and John son and heir of Sir Hugh, who was to marry Joan, daughter of Sir Bartholomew, (fn. 6) and so had settled on them and their heirs,
all this manor-house at Scothowe, with all the adjoining demeans, and
the whole advowson of the church of All-Saints in Scothowe, and the
moiety of the whole manor; after the death of Sir Bartholomew, the
advowson and moiety went to the said John and Joan, and they presented in 1312; and in 1316, Joan, being then a widow, held it, and
in 1327 Sir Hugh Peverel, Knt. her son, had it, and sold it to
Richard de Bittering, citizen of Norwich.


The moiety of the other moiety, it seems, came to Catherine (fn. 7) 
wife of John de Newton of Scothowe, and contained a carucate of
land, and descended to William de Newton their heir, and after to
Stephen de Newton, who was convicted of felony, and so the Abbot
seized, and it ever after remained in that house to its dissolution.


The other moiety went to Thomas de Framlingham in right of
Agnes his wife, whose trustees, Ralf Urry, parson of Thugarton,
and Nicholas Ridell of Rackhithe, sold it to the Abbot, who in
1363 had purchased the manor, and obtained a release of all right in
the advowson, from Thomas de Bittering, and so the whole came
into the Abbot's hands, and with that abbey, went to the see of
Norwich, of which it is now held by lease, by Davy Durrant, Esq.
the present lord; he having the several manors of


[Page 343]


Fenhall, Aubries, Stubbes, and Gurnays, (fn. 8) 
In Scothowe, united in him, of which manors I find as follows:


The manor which belonged to Rainald Fitz-Ivo descended to
Hugh de Meliers, who lived in King John's time, and when one of his
sons became a monk in St. Benet's abbey, Alice de Meliers, widow
of Hugh, gave two parts of the tithes of her demeans here to that
house; in 1249, Sir Hugh de Meliers their son was lord, and after
him Richer de Milliers; in 1285, Gervase de Lammas sued
Simon son of Simon de Parva Riston for it, but it appeared that
Simon son of Thomas de Parva Riston had the best right, to whom
in 1288 Mabel, late wife of Jeffry de Reymerstone, released all her
right; but in this record he is called Simon son of Thomas le Paunier
of Parva Riston; it then contained 13 messuages and above 50
acres demeans; it was soon after divided into three parts, which constituted the three several small manors, called afterward by the names
of their several lords, and the whole of this manor was held of Dover
castle.


William de Colney had one part or manor, conveyed to him by
John de Whinburgh, which extended into Brampton, Lammas, and
Buxton; in 1288, he held it at three parts of a fee of Bartholomew de
Antringham, and he of Dover castle; this William, in 1293, settled
lands on Ralf de Houton and Joan his wife; and in 1312, his son
Ralf, who passed by the name of Sir Ralf Malherbe (see vol. v.
p. 5.) settled it on himself and Alice his wife and their heirs, Roger
de Bourne and William de Scothowe (fn. 9) being trustees; it then
contained 19 messuages, 1 mill, 240 acres of land, 13 acres of meadow,
6 of marsh, and 4l, 7s. 6d. rents, in Scottow, Lammas, Westwick,
Swathfield, Worsted, Buxton, Brampton, Hevingham, Stratton, Sloley,
and Windham. In 1345 another William de Colney had it, and
afterwards Richard Poynings, son of Nicholas, then Sir Robert de
Berney Knt.; and in 1401 William Thurton owned it, in right of his
wife; and in 1571 Charles Cornwallis, Esq. was lord, and in 1598
Anthony Flowerdew and Martha his wife.




Stubbes Manor.
Another part belonged to Roger de Norfolk, and in 1314 Ralf son of
Ralf son of Nicholas de Felmingham and Margaret his wife, and John
Norke of Worthstede and Alice his wife, who were coheirs, had it;
and in 1349 William son of Reginald de Worthstede, who with Margaret his wife in 1374 conveyed it to Alice de Bumpstede and Robert
[Page 344]
de Runhale, parson of St. Lawrence in Norwich; and in 1379
Bartholomew Appleyard and Henry Lumner, citizens of Norwich,
were concerned in it.


It afterwards came to the Stubbes, of which family John
Stubbes of Scothowe and Laxfield in Suffolk, in 1460, was buried in
the Friars-preachers church at Norwich, and left his wife Margaret,
and daughter Catherine, legacies, and the manor to John his son,
who was buried in the chancel here; for in 1505 Hawise his widow
was buried here by her husband's tomb, and ordered a mass for them
for 30 years, and a marble tomb for herself, and gave a legacy to her
son Edmund, then in orders; John Stubb their son inherited, and
was buried by them in 1525; he gave legacies to Walter Stubb his
brother, Audry Stubbe of Buxton, his sister, &c. and left Andrew
his son and heir, who in 1534 sold it to Thomas Marsham, Gent.
and in 1572 Sir Thomas Knevet, Knt. had it.




Aubries Manor.
Egidia, widow of Nicholas de Dorcete, sold it to Jeffrey Papelyn
and Alice his wife, in Edward the First's time, when it contained 7
messuages, &c. in Scothowe and Lammas, and it afterwards belonged
to the Aubreys, and was in the Stubbes, and in 1537 was sold by
Etheldred, widow of Andrew Stubbe, to Thomas and William Wodehouse, and Anne his wife. In 1612, John Shardelowe, Gent. sold it to
Richard Ross and Thomas Fidell, Gents.




Fenhall Manor
Was originally part of Buxton manor, and always passed with it, till
parted by William Marshall, who granted it as a separate manor to
the Le Grooses; and Roger le Groos had it, and after him, in 1282,
Reginald le Groos, who held it at one fee, as of Buxton manor, and
that of the manor of Hockering; and it then extended into Lammas,
Sloley, and East Tudenham; in 1345 John le Gros held it of Robert
de Morley, it being lately Petronilla or Parnel le Groos's. In 1401,
Oliver Groos held it of Robert de Morley, at a quarter of a fee, as
parcel of his barony of Rhye.


In 1472, Robert Elmham of Northwalsham, Esq. (fn. 10) gave this manor
of Fenhall in Scothow to Joan his wife for life. In 1476, Robert
Ellingham of Northwalsham died seized of Fenhall manor, and a
tenement and lands in Scothowe, called Leams or Lemens, held of
Buxton manor; in 1543, Margaret Willoughbie, widow, daughter, as
I take it, of Elmham, held Leams and Fenhall, and Katherine Heydon
was her cousin and heiress; Catherine died seized in 1566. John
Stanley, Esq. in 1577 sold to Robert Balle, Gent. and his heirs,
Fenhall alias Heydons, alias Dockyngs, alias Bockings manor in
Scothowe, and many adjoining towns, all which John warranted.
against the heirs of Sir Robert Bell, Knt. deceased, and the heirs of
John Bocking alias Docking, decased, and the heirs of Robert Elmham
[Page 345]
deceased, and Edward Duke, Esq. and George Duke released to him.
The father of this Robert was John Balle, Gent. of Scothowe,
who had a lease of Scothowe manor from Bishop Hopton, for 99
years, at 19l. 4s. 11d. ob. rent, the lessee to have the lordship, rents,
fines, and perquisites of courts, &c. In 1572 Robert Balle sold the whole
to Robert Gibson, who bought Gurnays (or Berneys) of Flowerdewe,
and Stubbes of Sir Thomas Knevet.


The Church is dedicated to all the Saints, was valued at 40 marks;
here were 3 gilds, one of our Lady, one of the Holy-cross, and
another of the Holy-Ghost, and there were the lights of the
holy sepulchre, St. Catherine, St. Margaret, and All-Saints, the
ploughlight of Barnswood, and the ploughligth of Fengate, and the
light of St. Thomas.


It is in the deanery of Ingworth, and in the liberty of the dutchy
of Lancaster. It paid 8l. 13s. 4d. to every tenth, but had a deduction
of 20s. on account of the revenues of the religious here; it is assessed
at 628l. 2s. 6d. to the land-tax, and pays 11s. to every 300l. levy of
the county rates; it paid 7s. 7d. ob. procurations, and 2s. ob. synodals,
and 12d. qr. Peter-pence; in the Revision of the Archdeaconry of Nor
wich, the procurations are said to be paid by the Bishop asimpropriator,
and that the Bishop ought to pay yearly to the vicar, an annual
pension of 4l. 13s. 4d. which was then paid by the farmer of the
rectory, according to his lease: there was then no vicarage-house. In
the last Valor, the synodals stand at 2s. and procurations at 2s. 6d
and being sworn of the clear yearly value of 35l. it is discharged or
first fruits and tenths, and is capable of agumentation; the Bishop or
Norwich is patron, and the value in the King's Book is 8l. 13s. 6d.
ob. Here were anciently two rectors.




Rectors of Scothowe.
1231, Michael de Ringesfield, and R. de Windestone, were rectors
of the two medieties, which were perpetually united at their deaths,
and so it became one rectory.


1266, Thomas.


1312, Remigius de Hedersete was presented by John Peverel and
Joan his wife.


1313, Thomas de Framlingham and Agnes his wife, William de
Newton and Margaret his wife, released all their rights in the advowson
to John and Joan Peverel


1316, William Wymer. Joan Peverel, widow.


1326, Nicholas de Quypstede, chaplain, was admitted coadjutor to
William Wymer, rector, who was decrepid and old, and unable to
serve.


1327, John Peverel, clerk. Sir Hugh Peverel Knt. He resigned
in


1333, to Hugh Wykeman of Hetherset, (Ditto,) and he the same
year to


John Peverel, who took it again, and died the last rector of
this church in 1348.


[Page 346]
1335, John, abbot of Holm, who brought the King's writ against
Thomas de Morley, and others, concerning this advowson.


1338, the monks of Holm petitioned Anthony Bishop of Norwich,
for license to appropriate the church of Northwalsham, setting forth
that the lay power had taken from them the church of Scothowe, which
Thomas Bishop of Norwich had appropriated to them, it being worth
100 marks a year. In


1348, the convent had so managed, that they had got releases
of this advowson from all parties, and the appropriation renewed; a
vicarage of 40 marks value was to be endowed, the Bishop being to
nominate the vicars to the Abbot, who was to present them in
three days, otherwise the Bishop was to institute in his own right; a
pension of 40s. per annum was reserved to the Bishop, and another of
5s. a year to Norwich sacrist, in right of the cathedral, and the abbot
was to be taxed for the rectory at 25 marks, and the vicar for the vicarage at 15 marks; but the unreasonable monks were not satisfied with
this appropriation, but in 1350 procured another assignation of the
vicarage, by which the vicar was to have 20 pounds sterling the
first five years, and then 40 marks every year, paid clear by the monks,
who now retained the whole rectory and vicarage, except the rectoryhouse, and 6 acres of arable land belonging to it, which being a
commonable messuage, the right of commonage was to belong to the
vicar, and thus the abbey was to discharge the vicar of all manner of
duty, by finding a parochial chaplain to do it, and to allow that
chaplain all the offerings, and what came from the altar; all outgoing
charges whatever were to be paid, two parts by the abbot, and onethird by the vicar.—But notwithstanding this, the vicar had power
reserved, if he liked it best, to take all the small tithes, and a pension
of 28 marks a year; but then, the vicar was obliged to serve half the
cure, with the abbot's chaplain, and the abbot also was allowed power
to choose which of these two ways he pleased. (Lib. Instit. IV.
where the appropriations are entered.)




Vicars
NOMINATED BY THE BISHOPS, AND PRESENTED BY THE ABBOTS.


1348, William de Berney, the first vicar.


1349, Roger de Sweynsthorp.


1355, Sir Henry de Blacktoft. R.; he exchanged for Frettenham in


1358, with John de Cressingham, who, in


1365, changed a prehend in the Chapel in the Fields at Norwich,
with


Rob. Selyde.


1401, Peter Lyng.


1403, Robert Brown of Bury.


1421, Barthol. Colet, changed for Felthorp, in 1422 with


Will. Smith, who was buried in the churchyard in 1437.


1438, Tho. Dannard, buried in the chancel in 1462


1462, Edmund Oldcorn, rector.


1473, Sir Robert King, priest.


1479, John Barber. O.


1479, John Langele.


[Page 347]
Robert Blesly, O.


1482, William Lyghton, res.


1482, Thomas Williamson, O.


1504, William Haram alias Barker.


1554, Haimo Chaunt, ob. collated by the Bishop in full right


1559, Adam Barker.


1560, Thomas Carre, resigned.


1563, Simon Bullock, resigned.


1568, Richard Bourne.


1574, Richard Cowper.


1588, George Aynsworth.


1638, Robert le Neve; he was sequestered, (Walker, part II. fo.
296,) but lived to be restored, and died possessed of it, with Whinburgh.


1676, Thomas Curtis, O.


1698, John Booty. (fn. 11) 


The Rev. Mr. William Lubbock, B. D. on the resignation of
Mr. Hays, was collated by the Lord Bishop of Norwich, and now
holds it united to Lammas with Hautbois Parva.


In 1285, Nicholas le Spicer and Ida his wife gave lands here and
in Westwyk, to Holm abbey.


In 1392, John Clarke and others conveyed to that house, a messuage and land here, so that for this and other temporals, the convent
was taxed at 14l. 15s. 8d. ob. per annum; the prior of Hickling's
temporal rents here were 4s. and those of the prior of St. Faith's
19s. 2d.; and in 1378 Sir Roger Bois, Knt. and others, conveyed, to
the prior of the Holy Trinity at Ingham, a messuage and 88 acres
here and in Worstede.


In 1505, Harvey Stubbe and his wife were buried under a marble in
the chancel.


In 1469, William Hynde, buried by the font, gave a mass-book of
10l. value, and a pair of gilt candlesticks of 5 marks value; he
founded a priest here to sing for him, his father and mother, Laurence
and William Gerard, and Henry Hynde, and purchased land of
Robert Etmham, Esq. to find a priest in Little Hautbois church, to
sing and pray for them once a week.


Cut on a staircase, on the outside of the south isle, on a stone,


Corpus Putrescens,
Sanum Vivens,
Ad Cæum transiens,
In Deum credens,
Salutem Æternam.


Qualis Fui, nunquam Ero, Qualis Sum, Eris tu,
Vigens Fui, modo Sum, Pulvis, Cinis, Sic et Tu.


Hoogan mors rapuit, Succumbunt omnia Fato,
Musarum Fautor, Qui est Philomusus, erat;
Hic jacet in Tumulo - - - - - - - -


[Page 348]
There are these inscriptions in the windows,


Orate pro bono Statu Willi' Smyth et Barkar
Sancti Maria Magdalena precibus tuis nos adiuba.


On a brass plate,


Hic iacet Dominus Wetherley, Eapellanus cuius, tc.


There are the arms of St. Lowe, Fastolf, and White, in the windows.


A stone with Blake's arms is thus inscribed,


Hic jacet Margareta, Uxor Roberti Blake Generosi,
quæ mortem obijt, Maij Die octavo Anno Salutis 1724, Æt.
Suæ 70.


On a black marble at the altar, a chevron between three fishes.


Hic depositæ requiescunt Exuviæ Henrici Brougham
A. M. nuper Collegij Reginalis Oxon' Filij natû minoris, defuncti
sui Patris Danielis Brougham, Generosi, aliquando de Firbank in
Comitatû Westmoriensi, obijt xxv Mensis Augusti A. D. 1729,
Æt. 25.


A buck passant peirced through with an arrow,


Depositum Rookwood Robinsoni, obijt Martij Septimo
1657.


Ensifer Ipse fuit, nequaquam Sanguinolentus,
Nam Tranquillus, ubi Victor habetur, adest.


Hodie mihi, Cras tibi.


There are black marbles in the chancel for the Durrants, with
these inscriptions:


Hic jacet Corpus Gulielmi Durrant Generosi Qui obijt
20 Jan. 1700, Ætatis Suæ 84. Et Dextra illius jacet Corpus
Margaretæ Durrant, uxor prædicti Gulielmi Durrant,
Quæ obijt 5° Martij A. D. 1697, Æt. Suæ 69.


Hic jacet Corpus Mariæ Durrant, uxor Thomæ Durrant
Generosi, Quæ obijt 29° Sept. A. D. 1708, Ætatis Suæ 43.


Exuviæ Annæ, tertiæ Conjugis Thomæ Durrant Armigeri,
in eodem reponuntur Dormitorio, obijt Sept. 15, A. D. 1721, Æt.
Suæ 48.


Tándem Thomæ Durrant Armigeri Reliquiæ, prædictarum
Conjugum Cineribus sunt commixtæ Oct. x. A. Salutis 1727,
Æt Suæ. 70.


Subtus positæ sunt Reliquiæ Thomæ Durrant Generosi,
Thomæ Durrant nuper de Scottowe Armigeri, natû minoris,
Cælebs obijt 11 Die Novem' A. D. 1723, Æt. Suæ 35.


Thomas Durrant, Esq; was descended from the Durrants of
[Page 349]
Derbyshire, who bare by grant of William Cambden, sab. a cross
potent er.; but when Thomas Durrant Esq. in 1715 was sheriff of
Norfolk, he had a grant passed, authorising him and his descendants
to bear the following arms and crest, as they are now born by
Davy Durrant, Esq; the present lord, who hath a good seat near
the church, built by this Thomas, and much improved by himself, viz.
or, a cross croslet ermines, between four spots of ermine, sab. Crest,
on a wreath of his colours, a boar passant party per fess wavy argent
and gules, bristled and tusked az. and pierced through the body with
a broken lance, bendways sable, the head downwards, gold.
















Footnotes


1.   Terre Sancti Benedicti de Holmo ad victum monachorum (fo. 196.)
Scotoau tenunt semper Sanctus
Benedictus pro tribus carucatis terre,
tunc xiiii. villani modo ix. semper iii.
bordarij, ii. carucate in dominio, tunc vi.
carucate hominum, modo i. et dimid. x.
acre prati, silva xx. porci, tunc i. molendinum, semper li. runcini, iii. animalia, xi. porci, et ix. socmanni, dimid.
carucate terre, semper iii. caruc. et dimid, tunc valuit xl. solidos, modo lx.
Ecclesie xiv. acre, habet i. leugam in
longo, et dimid. in lato, et xx. petticas,
et xvi. den. de gelto.
2.   Terra R. de Bellafago, fo. 217.
In Scotohou i. car. terre et viii.
acr. ten. i. socmannus Sancti Benedicti de
Holmo, semper ii. vill. et iiii. bordar.
tunc ii. car. modo i. et dim. et iii. acr.
prati et i. soc. iii. acr. terre, tunc valuit
x.s. modo viii.
In Scotohou iii. liberi homines
Sancti Benedicti xxx. acr. semper dim.
car. et val. iii. solidos.
3.   Terre Rainaldi filij Ivonis, (fo.
227.)
Scotohu tenuit Ketel T. R. E. ii.
car. terre et dim. modo tenet Rogerus
semper viii. bordarij et ii. car. in dominio, tunc i. car. hominum et modo similiter et vi, acre prati, silva v. porc. et
tunc tercia pars mol. tunc iii. porc.
modo iiii. et xx. oves, et iii. vasa apum,
et vi. soc. xlii. acr. terre semper iii. car.
tunc valuit xx. sol. modo xl. Huic manerio addidit Wihenoc ii. socm. Sancti
Benedicti de xviii. acr. terre quos idem
tenet, tunc i. car. modo dim. et sunt in
eodem pretio.
4.   Terre Alani Comitis.
In Scotohou i. liber homo xii. acr.
terre, et val. xii.d. (fo. 66.)
5.   Terre Regis quam Godricus servat Erpincham Sud. hund.
Doms. fo. 43.
In Scotohou i. soc. Scti. Benedicti xliii. acr. semper ii. bord. (this part
Godric farmed of the King, as belonging to his manor of Aylesham) modo
Godricus ad feudum Regis, et est in
pretio de Ælsaham.
6.   See vol. v. p. 19,
7.   I take her to be a daughter of Bartholomew de Redham, and Agnes de
Framlingham another.
8.   Gurnays, which I take it should
be Berneys.
9.   Though the Scothowe family
parted from the manor very early, yet
they continued here many ages, and
had a good estate, Jeffry de Scothowe
died about 1200, and Christian his widow
released to Hervey de Scothowe, who
was alive in 1285; he seems to be father
of William de Scothowe, who in 1329 was
in great favour with King Edward 3d,
who called him his beloved clerk, and
entrusted him with divers offices,—this
year he was keeper of the rolls and writs
of the county of Derby, to which he
seems to have been preferred, as the
King's chaplain.
10.   Descended from Sir William, of whom in vol. ii. p. 386
11.   Durant versus Booty vica de
Scottowe. See Lutwich's Reports,
fo 1071. 13 Willi Tertij. See also Lib.
M. fo. 149, int. Archiv. Epi. concerning
tithes.














PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















