











Hundred of South Erpingham: Cawston | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


An Essay towards a Topographical History of the County of Norfolk










Hundred of South Erpingham: Cawston










An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6. 


Originally published by W Miller, London, 1807.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. Public Domain. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of South Erpingham: Cawston', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6 (London,  1807), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol6/pp254-268 [accessed 3 July 2026].





Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of South Erpingham: Cawston', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6(London,  1807), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol6/pp254-268.





Francis Blomefield. "Hundred of South Erpingham: Cawston". An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6. (London, 1807), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol6/pp254-268.














Keyword Highlight

Search






In this section

CAWSTON,
Caston's Manor in Cawston.
Mey's or Sterling's Manor,
Rectors.

Footnotes


[Page 254]

CAWSTON,
Commonly called Caston, at the Confessor's survey was found
to belong to Herold, then Earl of the East Angles, and afterwards
King of England; and at his death, this and his possessions belonged
to William Duke of Normandy, commonly called William the Conqueror, who slew him at the battle of Hastings in Sussex, and seized
his crown; the manor was then a very considerable one, having no
less than eleven carucates of land, 80 acres of pasture, 36 villeins,
26 borders, 6 household servants, and 4 carucates in demean, and the
freemen held 26 carucates; there was a wood so large as to feed 1500
hogs, 2 mills, 60 sheep, 50 goats, 5 hives of bees, and 10 socmen, all
which King William held at the survey taken by him, (fn. 1) so that the
whole town is ancient demean, and enjoys the privileges of that tenure,
as also those of the dutchy of Lancaster, of which this manor is
a member, and consequently within its liberty, but was exempted from
the jurisdiction of the dutchy, by John of Gaunt Duke of Lancaster; in token whereof at this day, a brazen gauntlet (or
[Page 255]
hand) is still carried before the lord of the manor or his steward,
whenever they hold court here, some say, as the device or rebus of
John of Gaunt Duke of Lancaster, who assigned all the royalties
to be held of him, by the lords of the manor; and the plough-coulter in
the hand denotes the manor to be held in free-soccage and not in
capite, or by knight's service. An exact representation of it, may be
seen at p. 246. This I take to be the real fact; though there are
other accounts that say, that this manor was held of the dutchy,
from its first erection, by the service of being champion to the Dukes
of Lancaster, of which office the gauntlet is a token, it being the
very thing, which every one that challenges another to fight, according to the law of arms, throws down, and if the challenged takes it up,
the combat is agreed on, and now the sending and accepting a glove
(the gauntlet, being the iron-glove of a suit of armour) is the way of
giving and accepting an honourable challenge, (if true honour can have
any such thing.) But as to record, I find nothing concerning this entered, and our great antiquary, Sir Henry Spelman, who mentions it
under Cawston, in his Icenia, knew nothing of its original; which is
not very much to be wondered at, because the manor was always returned befor the erection of the dutchy, as held of the Crown by homage and knight's service, but since that time, there being no service
nor homage done at the death of the lord, the tenure being altered from
knight's service to soccage, (fn. 2) I always find the returns made by the
juries on the several inquisitions taken, were, that they knew not by
what service it was held, which they could not do, the tenure being
non-apparent in the feodaries' books.


At the first survey it was worth 30l. at the second 40l. by tale, and
was then above two miles long, and as much broad, and paid 7d. to the
geld or tax towards every 20s. raised on the hundred; there were several berewics or manors belonging to, and held of, this, in the
several villages of Marsham, Blickling, Olton, Matelask, Strattonstrawless, Colby, Wickmere, Boton, Whitwell, and Branteston, and of
the freemen belonging to the manor: Rainald Fitz-Ivo held 2, William Bishop of Thetford 2, Godric the Sewer 2, which Earl Ralf
(Guader) held, when he forfeited, William de Warren 2, and Roger
Bigot 2, besides those held of Alan Earl of Richmond.


It remained in the Crown some time, for in 1193 Eustace de Nevile
farmed it with Aylesham manor, of King Richard I.; and it is said
that in 1156, William, brother to King Hen. II. held it, and that William de Cheyney, then sheriff, had an allowance for looking after it.
In 1197, when King Richard I. levied a tallage upon all the burghs
and manors of ancient demean, Robert Fitz-Roger, Osbert Fitz-Hervei,
William de Glanville, Michael Belet, and master Roger de Sancto
Eadmundo, his commisioners for that purpose, laid 7l, 12s. 6d. upon
the tenants and men of Cawston, and 117s. 3d. upon the men of Saham; (fn. 3) 
and it continued in the Crown till


[Page 256]
King John, in the 3d. year of his reign, ano 1201, granted it to


Hubert de Burgo, or Burgh, Earl of Kent (fn. 4) to be held in capite
of the Crown, by what service was not known, but the record called
Testa de Nevil says, it was believed to be held by the ancient annual
farm. Hubert died in 1243, and Margaret his widow, had her dower
in this manor, which she released in


1246 to John de Burgo, her son-in-law, son of Hubert, by Margaret daughter of Sir Robert Harsick, Knt. his first wife, together with
her dower in Newton, and many other manors in Suffolk, Sussex, Somersetshire, Warwickshire, Staffordshire, Dorsetshire and Cornwall.
This John was knighted on Whitsunday 1229, by King Henry III.
and married Hawise, daughter and heir to William Lanvaille, (who
brought with her the barony of St. Clere,) and of Maud his wife,
daughter of Gilbert Peeche; in 1242 he had a protection from all debts
due from him to the King, as well in the Great Exchequer, as in the
exchequer of the Jews, they being to be respited as long as he was in
the King's service in Gascoigne; (fn. 5) in 1251, when the King raised a
tallage on the tenants in ancient demean, this John, lord here, and
of Sutherton, was forced to raise the tallage on the men and tenants
of those places, as ancient demean. (fn. 6) In 1253, he had a special license
to hunt any where in the King's lands, in this and divers other counties. In 1372, by the name of John de Burgo, senior, he granted to
King Edward I. in fee, the manors of Cawston in Norfolk, Whately,
in Northamptonshire, Weyland in Essex and Suffolk, Estwode and Ralegh, with Rochford hundred in Essex, Saham in Cambridgeshire,
Kingesbury, Camelmelborn, Crompton, &c. with its hundred in Somersetshire, Wynford in Dorsetshire, and Banstede in Surrey, for which the
King was to pay him a clear annuity of 500l. per annum, (fn. 7) for life, and
convey to him the wardenship of the Tower of London for life, the
custody of Colchester Castle and the hundred of Tendring, and John
de Burg, junior, Knt. his son and heir, (fn. 8) confirmed it; it seems this
took place immediately, for in


1274, this manor was found to be in the King's hands, and was
settled on his Queen, with Fakenham, Aylesham, &c. and the two hundreds of north and south Erpingham; in 1229, William de Curson of
Carleton in Norfolk was the King's steward here, and paid 34l. and
half a mark clear, for the arrears of the farms of the King's manors of
Aylesham, Cawston, Hautbois, and the hundreds of north and south
Erpingham, and was allowed a deduction for Cawston-mill, which was
blown down. In 1285, the King assigned it to Queen Eleanor his
consort, who was found to hold it with Aylesham, and the hundreds of
north and south Erpingham, the whole being then worth 100l. per annum. William Curson being her steward, and such he occurs in 1301;
[Page 257]
at her death it came to King Edward I. again, who died seized, leaving
it to his successour,


King Edward II. who in the 2d year of his reign, ano 1309, granted it to


Gilbert de Clare Earl of Gloucester and Hertford, and the heirs
of his body, with the manors of Fakenham-Dam, Aylesham, and the
two hundreds to be held in capite, by the service of two knights fees; but
on Gloucester's death without issue they reverted to the Crown, and in


1314, the King granted them all to David de Strabolgi Earl
of Athol, to hold them till his lands in Scotland should be reduced to
the King's subjection, and he restored, and peaceably settled in them;
he was lord in 1316, but they were restored to the Crown sometime
before 1330, (fn. 9) for in that year, Causton, Costesey and Fakenham were
granted to


Robert de Ufford Earl of Suffolk for life; and in 1336, to the
heirs male of his body, for his late loyal service that he performed for
King Edward III. against Roger Mortimer late Earl of March; (fn. 10) besides those, he had a grant for life of the town and castle of Orford
in Suffolk, of Gravesend in Kent, Burgh in Norfolk, Gestingthorp in
Essex, &c. in all amounting to 300 marks per ann. In 1355 Thomas de
Cokefield farmed them under him; in 1368 the Earl died seized of this
manor, held in capite at one fee, and of the honour of Eye, town and
castle of Orford, Benhale, &c.


William de la Poole, his son and heir, succeeded him, who in
1381 was lord here, and patron, and died this year, and Roger de
Scales, Knt. Robert de Wilby, Knt. and Henry de Ferrers, Knt. were
his cousins and heirs; and so for want of issue of his body, it devolved
again to the Crown, where it remained till


1385, and then King Richard II. granted to


Sir Michael de la Poole, Knt. (fn. 11) chancellor of England, (fn. 12) now
created Earl of Suffolk, and to the heirs male of his body, 20l. per
annum out of the profits of Suffolk county, and 500l. yearly out of
the hereditaments of William Ufford, late Earl of Suffolk, for which
the following manors were conveyed to the said Earl, and confirmed
to him by the King's girding him with a sword, Burgh, (fn. 13) Cawston,
Baketon, (fn. 14) and Costesey, with knights fees in Blickling, Bawdeswell,
Hethill, Stanfield, &c. in Norfolk, castle, town, manor, and honour of
Eye, the hundreds of Hertesmere and Stowe, the manors of Combs,
Haughley, Trendon, Lowestoft, and Lothinglond hundred in Suffolk, and Gestingthorp in Essex, of which he died seized in 1414, and


Katherine his widow held Cawston, and the chief of the estate
for life, and was lady here in 1415, and Michael de la Pole Earl of
Suffolk was heir in reversion; who had three daughters, Katerine, 4
years old, Elizabeth 3 years old, and Isabel 1 year old; but he never
inherited it, for on his death without male issue, after Katherine's
death it went to his brother,


[Page 258]
William de la Pole Earl of Suffolk, who held it in capite in 1425,
with the advowson of the honour of Wormegeye at 1 fee, with
Burgh manor: he died about 1449, seized of the whole estate, and


John de la Poole Duke of Suffolk, his son and heir, was then
7 years old: he died seized in 1491, (fn. 15) and the estate went to


Edmund de la Poole Earl of Suffolk, who was attainted, (fn. 16) and so
this manor and advowson came to the Crown in 1494, 10th Henry
7th, and remained there till


1504, and then Henry VIIth granted it to


Gerald, son of the Earl of Kildare, and Elizabeth Zouch his
wife, and their heirs male; this Gerald was a great man in his time
in Ireland, as the Annals of that kingdom testify; he had two wives,
but this manor being limited to the heirs male of Elizabeth Zouch,
who had none, at his death in 1514 it fell to the Crown; and then
Sir Robert Drury, Knt. Sir John Heydon, Knt. and Edmund Gelget,
preferred a petition to the King on the behalf of Margaret de la
Poole Countess of Suffolk, late wife of Edmund de la Poole, whose
jointure it was, setting forth that she had a right for life in the manors of Westhorp, Wiverston, Huntingfield, Thorndon, Virleys, Moundevyles, Swanes, Nedding, Benhaule, and Haughle in Suffolk, Cawston,
Kerdeston, Saxlingham, Burgh by Aylesham, and Segesford in Norfolk, and they were assigned her; but devolved to the Crown at her
death, which was about 1516, and there remained till


1539, 31st of Henry VIII. and then that King granted Cawston
and the advowson (fn. 17) to


Sir James Bulleyn, Knt. and Elizabeth his wife, in exchange
for the manors of Haverseale and Kempsing in Kent. In 1550, the 5th
of Edward VI. for 500l. paid into the Exchequer, it was granted to
remain after the death of Sir James Bullen, Knt. and Elizabeth his
wife; and the longest liver of them to the Lady Eliz. (fn. 18) daughter of
Queen Anne Bullen, by Henry VIII, and afterwards Queen of
England, and so it came again to the Crown.


In 1562, when Queen Elizabeth had the manor and advowson,
there was an exact survey of it made by William Minne, William Dix,
and Thomas Sidney, Gents. her commissioners for that purpose, on the
oaths of 13 tenants on the jury, who said, that the Queen was lady
and patroness, and had court-baron and lete, weyf and stray, with all
game and royalty of fesaunt and partridge to the same belonging;
that it was ancient demesne, and a liberty within itself, and that no
sheriff or escheator could serve process in the manor, the tenants of
which were not to appear at any assizes or sessions, or any other courts
out of the franchise; also no spiritual officer could serve any citation
there, but the clarke of the town; and they were not to appear before
any spiritual juage out of the lordship. The Queen had a warren of
conies, and a fald-course in her several ground, called the Park, and
a lodge lately built on her several ground called Leeches (fn. 19) adjoining
thereto; the fald course is let at 5l. per annum. It hath a fair, market,
[Page 259]
and all escheats, worth 26s. 8d. per annum; a wartermill let by copy of
court roll at 4s. per annum; they sue all fines on the freehold by their
own steward or his deputy, and pay a set fee of 2s. 4d. each fine sued,
for the recording it, and the fines sued on the base tenure only 4d.;
the customary fines for the demised lands of the site of the manor, or
ancient demeans, is 2d. an acre; the tenants have been judges in traverse for the freehold; the free-rents are 12l. 13s. 10d. per annum, with
the stikepence, and the base tenure rents or quitrents are 12l. 16s.
Item, our Custom is, for the whole fines of the base tenure lands 2s.
an acre, and for the petty fine (or fine of alienation) when lands are sold,
xiid. the acre, and more for issue for every acre for the year 1d.


The Commons are in general for all the inhabitants of Cawston,
and in the precinct of the manor, viz. at Falling 1 acre, BaywoodGreen 5 acres, the common from Blakebrigge towards Heydon north
8 score acres, set out by marks and crosses. The 4th common is going
from Causton-Woodrow on the south side of the Queen's several ground,
called the Park, leading to the common water-run of Causton and
Aylesham, towards Marhsam, Buxton-Doles, and Heveringland, &c.
Malborne's Haven, between Causton and Marsham, &c. 1 acre of common against William Alexander's house, &c. by Branteston, 10 acres
lying between Booton common south, and Reed's close north.


The site of the manor is a messuage called Leeches or Baywood, much
dilapidated, a brew-house, stable and long barn of 4 bayes, &c. the old
site is builded with divers cottages, holden by copy of court roll by
divers tenants, the which site, with certain other demean lands, as
the faldcourse, warren and wood, by the old extent with the profits of the fair and market was formerly 11l. 18s. 8d. but are now
raised. (fn. 20) 


In 1572, it was 55l. per annum, and was afterwards granted by the
Queen for a term to Sir Thomas Gresham, Knt. but that being out in


1610, King James I. granted it to Sir Henry Hobart, Knt. his
attorney general, who purchased it of him, to be held by knights
service to him and his heirs in fee; his son,


Sir Henry Hobart had it in 1612, whose son,


Sir John Hobart, in 1662, sold it to


Erasmus Earle, sergeant at law, for 3450l. and James Long his
trustee, in whose family it still continues,


Augustine Earle, Esq. being now lord and patron, for which
family see under Heydon.


In 1605, James I. granted them his charter of certificate, that
they and the tenants of Burgh manors by Aylesham, were tenants in
ancient demean, and as such were free from toll, stallage, cheminage,
pontage, panage, picage, murage and passage, in all England, and this
charter was renewed in King Charles the First's time, ano 1625. (fn. 21) 


1207, Jeffry Fitz kept two gosshawks, to have all the timber falling in Causton-Park, and all the windfalls of the top-wood.


1457, Ela wife of Robert Brewse, Knt. died seized of 200 acres called Jerberg's Park in Cawston, and Robert de Brewse her son proved that it was not subject to the liberty of warren belonging to Cawston, and had no dependance on that court, because John son of Sir
[Page 260]
Hubert de Burgh, granted it absolutely free to William, son of
William Gerrridge or Jerberge of Yarmouth, when he severed
it from Cawston manor: in 1636, Roger Townesend, Bart. died seized
of Gerberge's wood and park, containing 200 acres in Cawston, held
in free soccage of Cawston manor; and Roger, his son and heir, was 8
years old.


In 1200, Henry III. first granted a charter to Hubert de Burgh,
for liberty of free warren in his manor of Cawston.


In 1263, John de Burgh obtained a charter from Henry III. for a
weekly market every Tuesday, and a fair on St. Remigius's day (October 1) and morrow.


And Edward I. granted a fair, which is kept here on St. Agnes's day,
21 January, and morrow, it being the dedication day of the church;
and there is a sheep-shew, or fair for sheep, at the Woodrow-house on
August 14; and formerly the church-wardens were obliged to pay an
annual sum to make a crown for the principal image of St. Agnes,
standing on the north side of the altar, at the east end of the chancel,
and to adorn it.


Banningham, a member of Cawston, was granted off by Henry I. to
Walter Tusard, who holdsit (per arbalisteriam) by the serjeanty of finding
one archer, or foot-soldier, with a cross-bow, for the King's service; and
Avis Tussard held it, when the record called Testa de Nevile was wrote.


In 1339, Jeffry le Scroop held Neyland manor in Essex and Suffolk,
of this manor of Cawston, by the service of one rose a year; and Sir
Henry le Scroop, Knt. his son, held it after him, in 1392.


The original of Leche's manor, was by a grant made by John de
Burgh, of part of the lands and rents of the great manor, to Baldwyn
son of John de Cankewelle, in 1274, with 52 acres of land, within the
hedge of Causton Park, the said Baldwin being to have all royalties
in his part or manor, paying yearly to the said John and his heirs a
bearded arrow; and from that time, the lord of this manor always
had an iron bearded arrow carried before him or his steward, whenever
a court was held; at this time there is a mace carried at every court,
having a bearded arrow at top, in token of the tenure, and to shew
that it holds of the chief manor by it, and so is consequently held of
that, as of the dutchy of Lancaster, in free-soccage. See this exactly
described under Heydon, at p. 246.


It came afterwards to Robert Leeche, and after his death in 1399,
William Leeche of Newton by Castleacre held that manor, with lands
in Cawston and Olton of this manor, and Katerine wife of John Wisbitch, (fn. 22) was his sister and heir; in 1405 William Leeche held it, and John
was son and heir 8 years old. In 1460 Agnes Bacon, late wife of
William Leche, and Nicholas son and heir of John Cannon, and Alice
his wife, daughter and heiress of the said William and Agnes, sold it to
John Heydon.


In 1521, Sir Roger Townsend was lord of Leeches manor in Cawston,
and let the manor-house in Cawston, warren of conies, faldage and manor for 20 marks, and the 2d of October, in the 2d of Edward VI.
he and his son Thomas (fn. 23) sold the whole manor of Leeche's to
[Page 261]
Sir James Bulleyn, Knt. and so it became joined to, and hath
continued with the great manor ever since.



Caston's Manor in Cawston.
Walter de Cawston lived, and had an estate here about Richard
the First's time, and was succeeded by Robert his son; Richer de
Causton, and Stephen and Henry, sons of Richer, are mentioned
to live in the time of Roger, prior of Norwich. In 1251, William de
Causton was married to Maud, daughter of Vincent, and had divers lands
granted them from the manor by John de Burgh; in 1267 Hugh
their son had lands here and in Branteston. In 1289, John de Causton
and Selona his wife purchased another estate here, of John de Wigenhale
and Egidia his wife: in 1304, Robert de Causton purchased of Thomas
de Whitwell, chaplain, 2 messuages, 116 acres of land, 4 of meadow,
3 of pasture, and 4s. rents, in Caston, Heydon, Oulton, Heveringland,
Swannington, Branteston, and Boton; this Robert was one of those
wise men whom Edward III. in 1304, thought fit to appoint to meet at
Westminster, to be of counsil to his beloved son Thomas of Woodstock
Duke of Gloucester, whom he had appointed Custos of England,
during his absence in the French wars, with the Prince of Wales,
and many noble lords in his company. (fn. 24) In 1302 he and John de
Wesenham were commissioned to lay an embargo on all ships from the
mouth of the Thames northward, and to supply them with men and
arms to resist the French, then making an invasion. 1460 John de
Causton, Knt. had it, and in 1368, Robert de Causton died, and half
a tenement in Stanford, part of the manor of Causton, of the manor
of Wormegeye, with rents in Breydeston, and left two daughters,
Margery 7 years old, and Mary 4: in 1506 John Curson, alderman
of Norwich, buried at Letheringset, gave all his estate in Cawston,
Boton, Hevingham, Heverland, and Branteston, with the court-leets
and warren, to Thomas his son, to sing for him 5 years, and then to
go to John his son, &c. In 1637 Sir Edmund Sawyer and Anne his
wife, sold it to Sir John Hobart, Knt. and Bart. and he sold it immediately to Sergeant Earle, and so it united to the great manor.




Mey's or Sterling's Manor,
Was parcel of the great manor, granted off by Henry I. and King
John; in 1201, William son of Robert le Mey, had 20s. lands
formerly the King's demean, and William son of Arnold, 40s. worth;
and in 1231, William conveyed other lands here, to Jeffry de Causton;
this William, in 1249, had other lands, rents, &c. here, of the ancient
demeans of the grant of Henry I. held by the serjeanty or service of
keeping and feeding one bloodhound. (fn. 25) 


[Page 262]
This William married his daughter Christian, to Stephen de Aylesham, and conveyed to him with her, Hervy de Ingworth his villein,
and his land, which Stephen gave to Bury abbey. In 1255, William
son of William le May, paid a relief of 10l. to King Hen. III, to
have seizen of all his father's lands; in 1274, a part of this manor
which laid in Stanho, in Smithdon hundred, was now parted from this,
and held by John King and Joan his wife, who, with William May,
held the whole serjeanty of keeping a large hunting-hound for the
King.


In 1276 William le Mey, as a tenant in capite, was summoned to
attend Edward I. in his expedition into Wales: in 1285 Johanna or
Joan le Mey was lady, and the serjeanty is thus expressed (per serjantiam
custodiendi unum burtelettum ad voluntatem (fn. 26) sumptibus suis proprijs.)
In 1308 Robert Bedingfield and Joan his wife held Mey's manor, of
the inheritance of the said Joan, in Causton and Stanhowe, by keeping a hound for the King, whenever the King sends one for that purpose, and Katherine and Elizabeth were their daughters and heirs; and
in 1316, Joan le May of Cawston, wife of Robert de Bedingfield, infeoffed it in William son of Bartholomew de Stanhowe, and Walter
March, and the heirs of Walter in it; and now it was found, that if
the King sent the hound, he was to pay 14d. a week for their keeping
it, and that no tenants of the lands held by this serjeanty ever served
on juries, (fn. 27) or appeared on any recognizances, by reason of the tenure.
In 1353, Robert le May of Causton had license to sell the Causton
part of manor there, to Henry de Brampton and his heirs, viz. 9 messuages, 80 acres of land, 4 of pasture, a sheeps-walk, and 5s. rent, to
be held at the 6th part of a fee so that the sergeanty now all laid on
the Stanhowe part, called May's manor in Stanhowe. In 1458
John Aggys, Gent. lord here, ordered his wife Margaret to sell it, and
to be divided among Henry, Edmund, John, and Thomas, Katherine
and Alice, his children, and William his bastard son. In 1543
William Knightly of Norwich, Gent. gave Mey's manor here to his
son George; in 1565 Thomas Gaudy, Esq. sold the manors of Mey's
and Sterling's, in Cawston, Branteston, and Heveringland, to John
Gibbs, with the sheep-walks belonging to it; it was after this John
Peter's, who sold it to John Jenny, Gent. and Thomas Deye, Gent.
and in


1655 Clement Herne, Esq. was lord, the rents of assize being
then 1l. 5s. 5d. and it now belongs to


Paston Herne, Esq. of Heverlond.


The old site is in a close at the division of Cawston parish, almost
by Heverlond: it is enclosed with an old moat, and contained about
an acre.


The Church is dedicated to St. Agnes, and stands thus in the
King's Books.


15l. 13s. 11d. ob. Cawston Rectoria, alias Caston, 1l. 11s. 4d.
ob. qr. yearly tenths.


Hubert de Burgh gave 10 acres glebe to the church.


[Page 263]
The advowson belonged to the manor, till Mr. Earle settled it on
Pembrook Hall in Cambridge, (fn. 28) who are always to nominate two
of their fellows to the lord of the manor, who must present one of them
so nominated.


1283 John de Wyckham was rector, and the living was then worth 60
marks a year.


It is in Ingworth deanery and Norwich archdeaconry, pays first
fruits and tenths, and is incapable of augmentation.


In 1378 Sir Roger Boys, Knt. and others, aliened to the prior of the
Holy Trinity at Ingham in Norfolk, a messuage and 87 acres, in
Worsted, Scottowe, Buxton, and Causton.


1477, lands in Boton, Salle and Causton, aliened in mortmain, to
Mary Magdalen's college in Oxford.


Synodals 1s. 1d.; visitatorial procurations, 3s. 11d.; archdeacon's
procurations 7s. 7d. ob.; tenth of the lands of the religious here,
2l. (fn. 29) 




Rectors.
1189, Henry de Castello, rector.


1316, Henry de Hale, priest. David de Strabolgi Earl of
Athol.


1348, Adam de Skakelthorp; he made his will in 1370, and was
prebendary of Paynes hall in Lincoln diocese, and lies buried in Cawston chancel, before the principal image of St. Agnes; he was a very
great and wealthy person; among others, he gave legacies to his
friends, William de Lughteburgh, rector of Salle, John de Pyeshale rector of Alderton, William de Aylesham, rector of Heydon, John Broun,
rector of Tacolneston, and Peter de Mindham, vicar of Byker; he gave
his organs, then standing in Cawston chancel, to Hickling priory, and
to each canon 12d.; he had letters of fraternity, and was a benefactor
to every house of friars in Norwich, and his obit kept accordingly;
he was a great benefactor to the building of the south isle of Dennington
church in Suffolk, and to the repair of the chapel and altar of St. Mary,
at the east end of that isle; and to St. Margaret's chapel and altar,
at the east end of the north isle there. He appointed brother Hugh
de Boundale, prior of Yarmouth, to pray for his lord Sir Robert Ufford
Earl of Suffolk, and Margaret daughter of Sir John Norwich, Knt.
his wife, to whom he was chaplain; and ordered, that the day after
his death he should be carried in his coffin into Cawston chancel, and
there set on two stools, and be covered with a green worsted cloth,
and then two wax-tapers, each weighing two pound and a half, to be
placed in two iron candlesticks, one at his head, and one at his feet.
Proved in 1470.


1370, John de Lynsted, rector.


1371, Sir John de Pyeshale, priest, (concerned in founding
Brundish chantry.) Sir William de Ufford Earl of Suffolk,
lord of Eye, Framlingham, and Cawston.


[Page 264]
1621, died Edward Hammond, who is buried in the chancel with
this,


Hic jacet corpus Edwardi Hammond, rectoris hujusce ecclesie, quadraginta septem annos, qui obijt decimo die Junij A. D.
1621.


1621, Thomas Colby, rector. D. D. and 1644.


1661, Mr. Conyers, rector, died Aug. 6th.


1663, Mr. Thomas Durham, rector.


1666, Edward Earle gave a receipt for tithes. 1675, John Hildeyerd, rector, commissary to the archdeacon of Norfolk, 1683 L. L. D;
be married Elizabeth Duncomb of Ipswich, and had by her, John,
Francis, Edmund, Philippa, and Elizabeth. He was son of Christopher
Hildeyerd, son of Richard, second son of Martin Hildeyerd of Winestead in Yorkshire, by Emma, daughter of Sir Robert Rudston of
Yorkshire, from whose eldest son, Sir Robert Hildeyerd of Winestead,
and Henry of Lincolnshire, descended.


Robert Whitefoot, rector, died August 14, 1720. He was son
to the Rev. Mr. John Whitefoot of Norwich, for whom see vol. iv.
p. 189.


1721, Thomas Browne, rector, fellow of Pembrook-Hall. Erasmus
Earle, patron. He lies buried in the chancel, under a stone thus
inscribed,


S. H. M. Sepulta jacet Elizabetha, viri reverendi Thomœ
Browne, A. M. hujus ecclesiæ rectoris, uxor dilectissima, nusquam
satis deflenda, cum duobus, Thomâ scilicet, et Jacob-Augustino
filiolis, beatam resurrectionem expectans, nata November xvio
MDCXCVo denato Junij xxiiio MDCCXXVIo.


On a chevron between three lozenges, three mullets.


The Rev. Mr. Leonard Addison, A. M. late president of Pembrookhall, succeeded Browne, and is the present rector, and holds it with
the rectory of Salle, and vicarage of Saxthorp.


1460 John Barker of Cawston buried there, gave ten marks towards seating the church, and 10 marks towards building the rood-loft,
commonly called the candlebeam, and 20 marks towards the new steeple
now building at Heydon, and a legacy towards building one of the
porches, (fn. 30) and 100l. to his wife Katerine.


There is a brass in the church, for one of the family,

Orate pro anima Johannis Barker, qui obiit A. D. Mbro vii
cuius anime propicietur Deus.


1504 Richard Broune of Caston, buried before the image of our
Lady of Pity, in the chapel of our Lady, in the church of St.
Agnes at Caston, gave 4 marks to paint a pane of the rood loft, to
our Lady's gild kept in this chapel 3s. 4d. to St. Agnes gild in the
church 3s. 4d. to Sir John Browne his brother, to sing for him and
his friends at our Lady's altar in this her chapel 1 yere 10 marks, and
10l. for a cope.


William Gelyons, was a benefactor to the gild of St. John the Baptist, held in that saint's chapel, and to the gilds of St. Peter, and
[Page 265]
of St. Thomas, and that of the Holy Trinity; to the plough-lights of
Cawston town, Sygate, Eastgate, and the dams, to the lights before
St. Agnes, St. Mary, St. James, &c. in the church.


The Church is a noble free-stone pile, having a fine square tower
40 yards high, and 6 bells and a clock in it, a nave, 2 isles, 2 transept chapels, a north chancel chapel, (fn. 31) and north vestry and south porch,
all leaded. This noble fabric, except the north isle, was built by
Michael de la Poole Earl of Suffolk, lord here, and Catherine his wife,
daughter of Hugh Earl of Stafford, son of Michael de la Pole Earl of
Suffolk, and Catherine daughter and heiress of Sir John Wingfield,
his wife; his patron, St. Michael, with the dragon, is carved on
stone over the west door, with the arms following on 7 shields,


1. De la Poole, with an annulet on the fess for difference. The
arms of Miles de la Pole, fifth son of the founder, and a benefactor.


2. Morley, impaling De la Pole and Wingfield quartered; Wingfield's bends are not cotised. The arms of the founder's eldest daughter, Isabel, who married William Lord Morley; both of them were benefactors to the tower.


3. Delapole and Wingfield quartered, impaling Stafford,
or, a chevron gul. arms of the founder and his lady.


4. Delapole and Wingfield quartered; the arms of the founder's,
father and mother.


5. Delapole and Wingfield quartered, impaling England, with
a label of three points.


6. Chequy, a bend ermine Clifton, impales Delapole.


7. Delapole, with a de-lis, on the fess for difference. This
was the shield of Alexander de la Pole, sixth and youngest son of
Michael the founder, who was a benefactor to the building.


Over the north door is this,

Orate pro anima Roberti Orburgh, et pro quibus tenetur qui istub
Ele fieri fecit.


Between the arms of Ufford and Delapole are Wingfield quartered,
and at top, on each side, are the arms of England and France, all carved in stone


On the arch of the porch are Delapole and Wingfield's arms quartered.


There are two old gravestones on the south side of the churchyard,
near the cross isle, one with the effigies of a man, the other of a woman, of very ancient sculpture in relievo, the supposed founders
of the south chapel; but it is not likely, the tombs appearing much
older than the building.


In the nave on antique stone:



[Page 266]
In the chancel, before the altar:


Orate pro animabus Tohanis de Lynstede, qui fecit fieri istam
aut perpetuam Amen.


In the east window are the arms of the East-Angles, Edward the
Confessor, Bishop Nix of Norwich, Ufford Earl of Suffolk, Delapole
Earl of Suffolk quartering Wingfield, France and England, and the
arms of Sir James Bulleyn, Knt. lord here in 1540, quartered with
Butler Earl of Ormond, impaling sab. on a fess gules between three
mullets arg. three croslets or; Sir James's effigies kneeling in his surcoat of arms, and that of Elizabeth his wife were here formerly, but
are now defaced; there was also another effigies, with a surcoat of
arg. on a chief sab. two mullets of the field.


In the north chapel, against the chancel,

Orate pro amimabus Maargarete Harwarv, et Willi. Herward, et
Nichi. Herman, et Tohannis Domsyng, nuper Uirorum predicte
Margarete.


In a north window, az. five de-lises in chief or.


Pihet qui istam fenestram fieri fecit


On the screens are painted the four Doctors of the Church, the 12
Apostles, and many saints, and this,

Prey for the Sowlis of William Athereth, and Alice his Wyff, the
wcche dede these iiii Panys Peynte be the Erecutoris lyff


In the nave,

Orate pro animabus Willi. Denne, et Elianore Uxoris eius qui
obiit rioDni. MoUoiiio


In 1503 William Denne of Cawston, oon of the atturnes of the common law, made his will, and ordered to be buried here by his wife's
tomb, under oon stone and gave a legacy to repair the church.


Mr. Edward Dewing late of Cawston, 1731. 65.


Æque maritus per Amans, ac pater Indulgentissimus, tam Herus
benignus, quam Amicus sincerus, factis sine Fuco et Fallaciâ, nec
non ei potissimum Egenis succurrere fuit.


Elizabeth Wife of Edward Dewing Yeoman, Daughter of
Augustine Breeze of Cardistone, 1711, 54 Years and 9 Months.


Mary, Daughter of Edward Dewing, June 10, 1711. 15.


Elizabeth, the Wife of William Lowe of Norwich, Daughter
of Edward Dewing of Caston, 1st of July 1719. 29.


Clement Leedes of Cawston 1732. 29.


In the north cross chapel,

Orate pro anima Roberti Rumpe, qui obiit rriodie Septemb. Ano
Dni. Mccccrrio cuius anime propicietur Deus Amen.


The south transept windows are adorned with the several histories
[Page 267]
of the Creation, Deluge, Passion, &c.; and in it are the following memorials:


Anne Sporle Widow, 1694. Edward Lomb, Gent. August 24,
1670.


Depositum mortale Thomæ Lomb, Gen. è Christi Collegio in
Academiâ Cantab. A. B. super ipsius almæ Matris gremio Vitam
hanc meliori mutavit, 4 Octob. A. D, 1687.


Edward Lombe of Weston in Norfolk, Esq. 4 February 1703,
42. Elizabeth his wife 5 November 1702, 37. and 6 of her
children.


Lombe, az. two combs in fess between a broken standard, the
one part in chief, the other in base barways arg. impaling three
estoils two and one.


Orate pro anima Henrici Goodman, qui obiit Ano. Dni. Mo
Uo rrci.cuius anime propicieiur Deus Amen.


On a stone having the effigies of a man and woman,


Here lieth the Body of William Gurney, Gent. March 10
1578, and Anne his Wife 19 January 1596, they had 1 Son and
3 Daughters.


Gurney impaling Waytes of Norfolk, az. a fess or between three
fishes naiant arg.


In the windows, which are very fine painting,

Orate pro animabus Thome Hogehyns, et Annicie Uxoris sue,
Patris et Matris ejusdem Thome>


Orate pro animabus Richardi Barter, et Matildis uxoris eius.


This, on an old reading-desk, having the four doctors of the church
carved on it, and his effigies, kneeling on a cushion, with his cap by
him, and she kneeling also on a cushion,

Orate pro animabus Roberti Sparham de Causton et.


The parsonage-house stands on the south side of the churchyard.
These arms were formerly in the windows, of which few now remain,


Mildmay, per fess arg. and sab. three greyhounds heads erased counterchanged collared or.


Sir Christopher Heydon's whole coat, impaling Lady Gray, his
relict.


St. George. Delapole, quartering Wingfield and Stafford.


Az. two chevrons or, Delapole quarters Arundel, 1. Paine, arg a
chevron vairè between three lions rampant az. quartered with Jermy,
with a crescent for difference.


Paine, impaling Bulleyn, with a mullet.


Poley, er. a lion rampant sab. with a crescent, and Tempest, arg
a bend between six martlets sable with a crescent.


Dengaine, gul a fess dancette between six croslets or.


Bulleyn, with a mullet. Ormond, Lord Hoo, quarterly sab.
and arg. Gurnay, arg. a cross ingrailed gul. with a crescent impaling
[Page 268]
Wayte. Waterton, barry of six er. and gul. three crescents
sub.


Quarterings of Pain or Bulleyn. 1. Lord Hoo, quartering Morley. 2. St. Omer. 3. Tremaine, az. three dexter hands arg.
4. Wichingham. 5. St. Legar, az. a frette arg. a chief gul.
6. Spencer.


I find a hamlet, called Alvington, in Cawston.


The cross and shambles are in decay, the market being much
declined.


The Romans have been in these parts, as is evident from their coins
found hereabouts; in 1728, a brass coin of Favstina was dug up in
sinking a cellar.


Value to lard tax, 905l.; county rate to a 300l. levy, 1l.; the old
tenth of the town, 10l.





































Footnotes


1.   Rex (sive terra Regis) Doms.
fo. 11, 12. Erpingham SVD hund.

Caustituna tenuit Heroldus
T.R.E. xi. car. terre xxxx. acr. tunc et
post xxxvi. villani modo xxxv. tunc et
post xxvi. bordarij mo xxxiiij. tunc et
post vi. servi, modo iv. tunc et post iv.
carucat. in dominio, modo iv. et due
possunt restaurari, tunc et post xxvi.
carucate hominum mo xvi. et alie possunt restaurari, xx. acre prati tunc silva
M.D. porci modo M. semper ii. molendina, tunc iv. runc. modo similiter, tunc
xx. animalia et modo semper xl. porci
et cx. oves, et l. capræ et v. vasa apum
et x. socman. T. R. E. ex hoc habet Rainaldus filius Ivonis ii. et Willus episcopus ii. et ComesAlanus l. et Godricus
ii. ad feudum Regis, quem tenebat Comes
Radus. cum foris fecit. et Wil. de Warrenna ii. et Rogerus Bigot i.
Et adhuc tenebat in Caustuna, Heroldus T.R.E. Marsam, Blikelinca et xxiii soc. et hec duo maneria tenet
Willus. Episcopus et Erfastus tenuit.
Et Galterus Giffart tenet xxvi. soc.
quos tenuit Bodinus antecessor suus, tenebat etiam Heroldus v. socm. huic
manerio, quos tenuit Radus. Comes, modo Godricus ad feudum Regis, tunc
valuit xxx. libr. modo xl. ad numerum
et habet ii. leug. in longo et ii. in lato,
quicunque ibi teneat, et vii. den. de
Gelto.
Huic etiam manerio semper jacebat i.
Beruita Oulstuna, &c.
In Matelasc xxx. acr. terre tenuit
Heroldus et val. v. sol.
In Sratuna lx. acr. terre berewita
in Caustuna, &c.
In Colebei, &c.
In Wicmara i. liber homo Heroldi, &c.
In Hevincham, &c. in soca de Caustuna (fo. 43.)
In Erminclanda, &c. soca in Caustuna (fo. 83.)
In Brantuna soca in Caustuna
(fo. 83.)
In Tortuna tenet idem (Sc. Herlwinus) ii. soc. Heroldi in Caustuna lx.
acr. terre &c. (fo. 277.)
Botuna, &c. soca in Caustuna,
&c. (fo. 273.)
In Witewella i. berwita que jacet
in Caustuna tenuit Heroldus T. R. E.
&c.
In Brantestuna iv. liberi homines,
&c. sunt in pretio de Caustuna.
In Banincham &c. soca in Caustuna (fo. 288.)
2.   A sock is a plough-share, so that
soccage tenure is when lands are holden
by or for certain husbandry services, to
be performed to the lord of the fee, and
socmen are tenants that hold by service
of the plough, so that the lord was
only obliged to pay a plough-coulter or
share, in token of the tenure, to the
superiour lord of the fee.
3.   Madox, Hist. of the Exchequer, fo.
87.
4.   He sealed with a large seal, himself,
on horseback on one side, adorned with
lozenges vaire, and on the other side his
arms on his shield, of gules seven lozenges vaire, 3, 3, 1, circumscribed,
Sigillum Johannis de Burgo Comitis Nancie.
Vincent's Discovery of Brook's Errors,
278.
5.   Madox. Exchequer. fo. 550.
6.   Madox's Exch. fo. 517.
7.   The King granted him also the fee
farm of London, Midleton manor, &c. in
Kent, this was done to acquit a debt of
12000l. due to the King. Fin. diversor.
Com. 2d E. 1. Lig. 1. N. xi.
8.   This John sealed with his father's
arms and a label of three points for
difference circumscribed,
Sigllium Johannis de Burgo.
9.   In 1330 Edward the 3d declares that
his mother, Queen Isabel, on whom they
had been settled, had surrendered them
to him, all but Aylesham and Fakenham.
10.   Joseph Barnes's Hist of Ed. 3, fo.
53. See also vol. ii. p. 410.
11.   Cotton's Abridgment of Records,
fo. 310. Rot. Parl. 9 Ric. 2.
12.   In the Atlas, p. 270, there are several mistakes as to this town.
13.   In South Erpingham hundred.
14.   With Bromholm priory advowson.
15.   See vol. ii. p 410.
16.   He was beheaded in 1513.
17.   With the manors of Morehall in
Salle, and Egemere lately belonging to
the priory of Walsingham, and the manors of Heveningham, Kerdeston and
Reepham.
18.   Edmund Lomner, Esq. and Thomas
Paine, Gent. were trustees for the Lady
Elizabeth by license from Queen Mary.
ano 1553.
19.   See Leeche's manor.
20.   Autog. penes Pet. Le Neve, Norroy,
A D. 1725.
21.   Autog. inter Cartas Edn. Lombe,
Armigeri.
22.   Simon their son was found heir, but
died without issue.
23.   In 1518, Sir Thomas Wodehouse,
Knt. Roger Townesend, Esq; of Stinton, Christopher Calthorp, Esq. and
Robert Harward of Boton, Gent. sold
Leeches, to John Legge of Causton,
Gent. and Eliz. his wife, which manor
they purchased of divers persons ano 7th
of Hen. 8. (Madox Formulare Anglicanum
fo. 396) and in 1537 Roger Townesend,
Knt. conveyed it to his son Thomas,
and William Salmon, and Hen. Clifton
his trustees, (ibid 414,) &c. and in 1547
they all sold it to Bullen. It lies next
Cawston-heath.
24.  Rymer, vol vi. fo. 138, 167.
25.   Brachettum sive lunerium pro veneriâ, is a bloodhound for hunting.
26.   Ad voluntatem, signifies that it was
always to be ready when the King called
for it.
27.   Cawston et Stanhove serjeant, quod
nullus tenens ejusdem ponatur in assissis
juratis, &c. Inquis. Ano 10 Ed. 2. No.
93.
28.   Erasmus Earle, Esq. of Heydon
the elder, settled it with Salle, he being
educated at Pembrook-hall.
29.   Ecton's last Valor in 1742, says,
the living is 100l. a year, and that it
formerly paid a 2d. rent to the Duke of
Suffolk.
30.   It must be the north porch, which was only designed but not built.
31.  The length of the nave and 2 isles
is 90, and their breadth 54 feet. The
chancel is 46 feet long, and 25 broad;
the south transept chapel is dedicated to
our Lady, and is 15 feet wide, and 25 feet
long, the north transept chapel hath the
image of St. Edmvnd in its east window,
by which it seems to have been dedicated
to that King; the chapel on the north
side of the chancel is dedicated to St.
John Baptist, and is 5 yards wide and
above 8 long.
32.   The town at the castle, see vol. ii. p. 284.














PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















