











Hundred of Shropham: Lerling | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


An Essay towards a Topographical History of the County of Norfolk










Hundred of Shropham: Lerling










An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 1. 


Originally published by W Miller, London, 1805.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. Public Domain. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of Shropham: Lerling', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 1 (London,  1805), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol1/pp428-432 [accessed 3 July 2026].





Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of Shropham: Lerling', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 1(London,  1805), British History Online,  accessed July 3, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol1/pp428-432.





Francis Blomefield. "Hundred of Shropham: Lerling". An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 1. (London, 1805), British History Online. Web. 3 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol1/pp428-432.














Keyword Highlight

Search






In this section

LERLING,
Lerling, or Gonvile's Manor,
The Manor Of Welholme's,
Denevere, or Chalkhill Manor,
Rectors.

Footnotes



LERLING,
Lurling, Lirling, and now Lerling, or Lerlingford, is so
called from its low situation on the river, upon the ford or biggest
passage that any where crosses it; it hath a well-known inn standing
by it; and the great post road from London to Norwich passing here,
occasions this village to be more known by travellers than such
places usually are. At the time of the Confessor's survey, there were
two manors; the least was then held by a freeman, and at the Conqueror's time was given to William Earl Warren, who infeoffed Hugh
in it, it being then of 30s. value: (fn. 1) the capital manor, both at the Confessor's and Conqueror's survey, belonged to Ulketell, (fn. 2) and the soke
(or leet and superiour jurisdiction) belonged at that time to Bukenham
castle, to which this hundred was then appendant; it was always of
40s. value; the town was then a mile long, and a mile broad, and
the whole of every one's tenure paid 8d. ob. geld; this was afterwards
called


[Page 429]

Lerling, or Gonvile's Manor,
And went exactly as the capital manor of Rushworth, (which you may
see at p. 284,) from the time of Ulketell, till 1470, and then it was
settled on Rushworth college, (as you may see at p. 287,) and from
that time it continued in the college to its dissolution, and was after
granted, as that was, to the Earl of Surrey, in 1541, and alienated in
1542, by the King's license, together with the advowson, to John
Allington of Westley in Cambridgeshire, Esq. second son of Sir Giles
Alyngton of Horseth in Cambridgeshire, Knt. by Mary, daughter and
heiress of Richard Gardiner, Lord Mayor of London, who settled it
on his wife Margaret, and their heirs. In 1563, Robert Allington,
his son and heir, was in possession, who, in 1570, sold it to Tho.
Lovell, Gent. (fn. 3) and his heirs, at which time it extended into Rowdham, Shropham, and Illington, and was held of the Crown by knight's
service, and formerly of the Lord Bardolph; he was succeeded by
Sir Francis Lovell, Knt. who conveyed it to John Langworth and
others, and they, to Robert Houghton of Shelton, Esq. who left it
mortgaged to William Wherewood, Esq. who presented, with the
consent of Robert Houghton of Randworth, Esq. his son and heir,
who was left a minor. In 1682, Charles Houghton, Esq. was lord
and patron, who mortgaged it to Sir Edward Hungerford, and after
to Paul Jodrell; and, about 1723, it was conveyed to Richard Sturgeon, Esq. and since that to Sir Edmund Bucon of Garboldesham,
Bart. who is the present [1737] lord and patron. The leet belongs to
the hundred, to which this manor paid 2s. quitrent, and the town 2s.
leet fee, per annum. The ancient site, or manor-house, stood in a
close by the church, the mote that surrounded it being still to be
seen.


The fines are at the lord's will, and the eldest son is heir, both in
this and Chalkhill manor.




The Manor Of Welholme's,
Or Easthall, as it is sometimes called, was split out of Gonvile's
manor about the beginning of Henry the Third's time, in the 20th
year of whose reign, Adam de Methelond held it of William Wauncy,
who held it of the Bardolphs, and they of the Earl Warren, as of his
castle at Acre, by the fourth part of a fee, it being part of those eight
fees that William de Wauncy and his tenants held of the said castle;
in 1315, Robert de Welholme was lord; in 1345, Lucia de Welholm
had it; in 1401, John Brusiyerd was lord; and in 1439, Oliver Groos
of Sloley, Esq. was possessed of two parts of it, which he gave to
John Groos of Irsted, his youngest son, who gave it his wife Margaret
for life, and to the issue of her body, with remainder to Sir Henry
Heydon, Knt. In 1453, Oliver Groose, Esq. gave a part to Cecily
his daughter; in 1491, Robert Grosse held the moiety of it, and John
was his son and heir. In 1532, Anthony Gurnay, Esq. settled the
manor on John Tirrell, Esq. and others, and the same year John
Heydon, Knt. and Catherine his wife, and Christopher Heydon, Knt.
settled it on Sir Tho. Jermyn, Knt. and soon after it extinguished, the
[Page 430]
whole being manumised, and the demeans divided into many parcels,
most of which still pay their proportions to the lord of the hundred,
for the suit fines which were due from this manor to the hundred. (fn. 4) 




Denevere, or Chalkhill Manor,
Was given by the Conqueror to the Earl Warren, who infeoffed Hugh
in it, whose descendants, the Bardolphs, held it at the third part of a
fee; they granted it to the Deneveres, to be held of them; Osbert de
Denevere is the first lord that I meet with of that name, whose grandson Osbert had it, and after him, Richard owned it in 1218, who sold
the moiety of the advowson, which till then belonged to this manor,
to Sir Richard de Lerling; (see p. 285;) Walter de Denevere was the
last of this family I find lord here; from them it came to the Bukenhams, William de Bukenham of Keteringham was lord in 1304; (fn. 5) and
in 1313, John de Bukenham, parson of Illington, settled it on Ralph
de Bukenham and Elizabeth his wife, it being then held by Tho.
Spriggy of Munesle, in right of Julian his wife, widow of Hugh de
Bukenham, who joined and conveyed it to Ralph; and in 1315,
Ralph de Bukenham was sole lord, and then it extended into Rowdham, Illington, &c.; and from this time it passed in the Bukenhams, (fn. 6) 
who sold off the demeans into divers hands, (fn. 7) leaving the manor in
their heiress, who carried it to the Carrills, who sold it to the Hollands; and in 1598, John Holland of Wortwell, Esq. (fn. 8) was seized of it,
for in that year he brought an action against Tho. Lovell, Esq. and
other defendants, (fn. 9) in which he declared, that he was seized of Calkhill manor in Lerling, by virtue of which, he prescribed to have
common for 400 sheep, in a place called the Plains of Larling ford,
and that they with their sheep did eat the grass there growing, so
that he could not enjoy his common in as ample a manner as before,
upon which he recovered; and from this time the manor continued
in the Hollands, till Sir William Holland sold it to Sir Edmund Bacon
of Garboldesham, Bart. the present [1737] lord.




Rectors.
1280, Will. de Lerling, rector, and lord of Lerling and Elveden, (or
Elden (fn. 10) in Suffolk,) had liberty of free-warren in his manors of Lirling,
Fouldon, Pagrave, and Rusheworth, in 1252, and in Newton in Cambridgeshire, which was confirmed to William de Gonvile in 1286.


1303, Edmund de Lerling, rector.


1318, 19 kal. Sept. Hugh de Ressewrth, or Rushworth, accolite.
Sir Nicholas de Gonvile, Knt.


1321, 4 id. July, Master John de Galo, clerk. Ditto.


1334, 4 non. Febr. John de Gonvile, junior, clerk. John de
Gonvile, his brother.


[Page 431]
1344, 14 July, John Gonvile, priest. John Le-Gonvile, priest,
patron.


1349, 18 Nov. William de Briston, priest. The master and fellows
of the college of St. John the Evangelist at Rushworth, by whom all
the following rectors were presented to their dissolution.


1374, 12 Febr. Peter Frost de Askele, priest.


1392, 1 Sept. Tho. Runhale, priest.


1400, 3 Sept. Peter, son of Walter Horsheye of Bernham, priest.


1414, 5 Febr. Alexander Thelyk, priest, who was master of Rushworth, and obtained license that they might appropriate one rectory,
with cure of souls, to their college, with design to have this appropriated, it being of their own patronage; but upon the Bishop's not
approving of it, it could not be done; however, he so far consented,
that the master might hold a cure with his mastership, upon which
he was instituted at the presentation of the fellows, as you may see
more at large, p. 288, 289.


1431, 26 Nov. Robert atte Fen, priest, on Thelyk's death.


1433, 4 April, Robert Palmer, priest, on Fen's resignation.


1436, 12 Oct. John Payn, priest, on Palmer's resignation.


1468, 24 Febr. Thomas Smale, priest.


1494, 28 Nov. Richard Pury, priest, on Smale's death. He held
it united to Shropham vicarage.


1501, 6 May, William Paryssch, on Purry's death.


1516, 8 May, Sir John Purpet, master of the college, on Parishe's
death, see p. 289.


1524, 10 Sept. William Heye, on Purpet's resignation, who had a
pension of 4l. per annum during life, settled upon him out of the rectory, by the consent of Heye, who was then instituted, and the Bishop.
He was the last presented by the college.


1559, 30 May, Richard Brummell, at Heye's death. John AlyngTon, Esq. perpetual patron.


1580, 26 March, Richard Bromell. Queen Elizabeth, by lapse,
united to Illington.


1592, 30 Decem. Edmund Suckling, S. T. B. on Bromell's death.
Tho. Lovell, Esq. He held it with Hellesden rectory.


1608, 4 March, Robert Willan, A.M. John Cotton, Knt. assignee of Fran. Lovell, Knt.


1614, 16 July, Tho. Smith, A.M. Sir Francis Lovell, Knt.
Edmund Thompson, rector.


1673, 13 Sept. Tho. Morley, A.M. on Thompson's death. Will.
Wherewood, Esq. on account of a mortgage made by Robert
Houghton of Shelton, Esq. deceased, and by the consent of the
guardians of Rob. Houghton of Randworth, his son and heir; united
to Rockland All-Saints.


1679, 12 May, Benj. Culme, A. M. on Morley's death. Will.
Wherwood, Gent.


1682, 7 June, Will. Warkehouse, A.M. on Culme's cession. Charles
Houghton, Esq. in full right; united to Shropham, Ao 1684.


1722, 12 March, Tho. Sturgeon, at Warkehouse's death. Paul
Jodrell, Esq.


The Rev. Mr. William Robinson, the present [1737] rector,
was instituted on Sturgeon's deprivation, at the presentation of Sir
Edm. Bacon, of Garboldesham, Bart. the present patron.


[Page 432]
The Church is dedicated to St. Ethelbert, and is a rectory valued
at 10l. 2d. ob. in the King's Books, and pays 1l. 1q. yearly tenths,
and 12d. synodals; it hath a rectory-house and glebe belonging to it.
The Prior of Castle-Acre had two third garbs of the tithe corn of the
demean lands of Denevere manor in this town, which were given to
that priory by Osbert de Denevere, lord thereof, who afterwards gave
them the land called Osbern's Hagh, in Sipedeham (or Shipdam) in
exchange for the said tithes, and Osbert de Denevere, his grandson,
confirmed it, Jeffery, the Dean of Fincham, William Talebot, the
Dean's brother, Ralph, the chaplain of Acre, Gilbert de Denevere,
Eustace, the butler at Acre, and others, being witnesses. (fn. 11) The Prior
of the Canons at Thetford had lands in this parish, which, in 1428,
were taxed at 10s. but of whose gift I do not find. In 1603, there
were 92 communicants, and now there are about 22 dwelling-houses,
and 150 inhabitants. [1787.] It paid 58s. 4d. to the tenths, and is
now assessed at 280l. 10s. to the land-tax.


The church and chancel are thatched, the tower is square, and
hath three bells, on which are these inscriptions,


1.Sancta Maria, ora pro nobis,


2.Fac Margareta, nobis hac munera lcta.


3.Coclesti Mana, tua Proles nos cibct, Anua.


There is a stone for THO. CATON, Gent. who died Nov. 28, 1712,
aged 37, on which are these arms.


Quarterly, - - - - and Vair on a bend, an annulet and crescent.


Another stone is laid over SARAH, wife of JOHN BRETT,
who died 25 Sept. 1660.


And there are three stones in the chancel robbed of their brasses.
















Footnotes


1.   Terre Willi. de Warenna, fol. 90.
Hund. de Scerepham Lurlinga tenet
Hugo i. car. terre et dim. et fuit liberata
pro una car. quam tenuit lib. homo
T. R. E. semper ix. bord. et iii. lib.
hoies. et xv. acr. terre et ii. bov. et i.
bord. semper ii. car. in dnio. et i. car.
hominum et viii. acr. prati semper valet
xxx. sol.
2.  Terre Ulchetelli, fol. 288. H. de
Scerpham, in Luringa ii. car. terre tenuit idem Ulchetell T.E.R. tunc et post
vi. vill. modo iiii. semper i. bor. tunc
et ser. viii. acr. semper ii. car. in dnio.
tunc ii. car. hom. modo i. modo i. mol.
et semper ii. liberi hoies. xxvi. acr.
terre commend. tantum et soca in Bucham Regis. semper i. car. et ii. acr.
prati semper val. xl. sol. totum habet
dim. leug. in longo, et dim. in lato, quicunque ibi teneat et vii.d. et i. ob. de
Gelto.
3.   See p. 323.
4.   Mr. Clark of Larling now owns the
manor-house, called Easthall, and part
of the demeans, as I am informed.
5.   See p. 424, note 1.
6.   See p. 424.
7.   The demeans were charged with part
of the suit fines of the manor, which
were paid to the hundred.
8.   See p. 344, for the Hollands pedigree.
9.   Co. 9. Rep. 695, Mary's case.
10.   He granted Elveden to William, Richard, and Robert, his sons, who conveyed it to the Gonviles. This family
always sealed with a chief in a shield,
but I know not the colours.
11.   Regr.Priorat. Castle-Acre, fol. 99.b.














PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















