











Hundred of South Greenhoe: Holm-Hale | British History Online
















Skip to main content

















BHO | British History Online







Main navigation












Browse Catalogue


Subject guides


Using BHO


About


Subscribe


News












Login






Login


Register































';" aria-label="breadcrumb">
Breadcrumb


Home


An Essay towards a Topographical History of the County of Norfolk










Hundred of South Greenhoe: Holm-Hale










An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6. 


Originally published by W Miller, London, 1807.






This free content was digitised by double rekeying. Public Domain. 






Citation:

BHO
Chicago
MLA		




Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of South Greenhoe: Holm-Hale', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6 (London,  1807), British History Online https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol6/pp7-14 [accessed 2 July 2026].





Francis Blomefield, 'Hundred of South Greenhoe: Holm-Hale', in An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6(London,  1807), British History Online,  accessed July 2, 2026,
https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol6/pp7-14.





Francis Blomefield. "Hundred of South Greenhoe: Holm-Hale". An Essay Towards A Topographical History of the County of Norfolk: Volume 6. (London, 1807), British History Online. Web. 2 July 2026. https://www.british-history.ac.uk/topographical-hist-norfolk/vol6/pp7-14.














Keyword Highlight

Search






In this section

HOLM-HALE.
Holm Manor,
Hale Manor.
Berrer's, or Bures-Hall,
Elwyn's Groose's, and White Manor,

Footnotes



HOLM-HALE.
In ancient writings Holm and Hale appear not only to be two
distinct lordships, but two distinct villages, and occur by the
names of South-Holm juxta Hale, and Hale, or Hill-Hale; and on
the union of these lordships, &c. under one and the same lord, obtained
the name of Holm-Hale.



Holm Manor,
(So called from its low, and moist situation, and land enclosed with
water,) at the survey was held by the Lord Bainard, who had half a
[Page 008]
carucate of land, the fourth part of a mill, which a freeman held in the
Confessor's time. (fn. 1) 


By the inquisitions taken in the 24th of King Henry III. it appears
that Giles de Hulmo was lord, who was son of Sir Robert de Hulmo,
Lord of Filby, and of this manor, held by half a knight's fee of the
Lord Fitz-Walter; and in the 3d of King Edward I. Sir Robert de
Hulmo, son of Giles, was lord, and one of the commissioners or justices of Trail-Baston, when Roger de Beckerton, the Earl of Gloucester's bailiff, came into this lordship of Sir Robert's, and seized cows,
which he drove to Clare in Suffolk, which the jury presented as a
grievance, it being out of the Earl's fee. (fn. 2) In the 15th of the said
King, Giles de Ulmo produced before the justices itincrant, the charter of King Henry III. granted to his father, Sir Robert, for a weekly
market here on Monday, and free-warren in his demesne lands
here; and the jury present the said Giles, as holding a whole knight's
fee at full age, and not being a knight. (fn. 3) Besides this tenure, the said
family held also half a carucate of land, 4 bordsmen, pannage for 20
hogs, two parts of a mill, two acres of meadow valued at 20s. which
Godric held, (fn. 4) and at the survey was in the King's hands, and after
that came to the Earl of Richmond, as I take it, and this was held of
Giles de Hulmo in the 24th of Henry III. by Oliva de Aula.


In the 20th of Edward III. Stephen de Titeshale and Richard de
Burwood, were lords of the Fitz-Walter fee, held by Giles de Hulmo,
and John Dodington, &c. held of Stephen, &c. what Oliva de Aula
held; but about the end of this King's reign, both these tenures came
into the family of Illey, lords of Hale.




Hale Manor.
In the 24th of Henry III. the heirs of Edmund de Illey were found to
hold in Hale, one knight's fee of the Lord Fitz-Walter, and that lord
of the King.


In the 15th year of Edward I. Edmund de Illey had the assize of
bread and beer, view of frankpledge, weyf, &c. here; (fn. 5) and in the
6th of Edward II. a fine was levied between Edmund de Illey, son of
Thomas, and Alice his wife, and John de Plumstead, of this manor,
settled on Edmund and Alice, Joan, widow of Thomas, holding then
the third part in dower. In the 15th of the said King, he had a grant
of free-warren in all his lands here and in Stanefield in Suffolk; and
in the 20th of Edward III. he appears to hold the same, being then a
knight. In the year 1349, Sir Edmund died, and in the said year,
Alan de Illey; and in the year 1374, Sir Richard de Illey, son, and
grandson, most likely, of Sir Edmund, presented as lords, to the church
[Page 009]
of Hale; but in the 13th of Richard II. a fine was levied between Sir
Robert de Illey, Knt. lord, and Catharine his wife, and Sir Miles Stapleton, Sir Roger Boys, Richard, master of the college of Norton Soupecors, by which it was conveyed to Sir Roger Boys, who married Sibilla, daughter and heir of Sir Robert; and in the 4th of Hen. IV. Sir
Roger was found to hold Holm-Hale of the Earl of Rutland, as parcel
of the barony of Baynard; (fn. 6) this Sir Roger was buried in the choir of
Ingham priory in Norfolk, according to his will, dated 22d February,
1421, (fn. 7) and Catharine, the widow of Sir Robert de Illey, was buried in
the chancel of Plumstede, according to her will, dated December 1st,
1417. The Lady Sibilla, relict of Sir Roger, by deed dated the 20th
of February, in the 2d of Henry VI. leased the manor of Hill-Hale to
John Byrd of Hale, with the lands called Harefeld, except the rents,
services, free-warren, profits of coneys, court leet, court baron, advowson of the church, wards, reliefs, marriages, and eschaets, for 4
years from Michaelmas before the date, for 10l 13s. 4d. per annum.
The said John, to indemnify Sibill against the King for all fifteenths,
subsidies, &c. and against all others, for lord's rents, suits and services,
to keep the enclosures in repair, taking underwood to do it, and to
burn in his furnace and to brew with, &c. and Sibill to have half the
strays. The said lady, by indenture dated the 31st of March, in the
30th of Henry VI. articled to sell to Laurence Booth, clerk, master of
Pembroke-Hall in Cambridge, and his assigns, if the title was approved, the manors of Hill-Hale, Holm-Hale, (fn. 8) Whites or Groos, with
all the lands, tenements, rents, pastures, meadows, woods, groves, &c.
suits, services, courts, leets, and all manner of franchises, liberties, and
advowsons of two churches in the said town, for 200l. and 500 marks,
at several payments specified in the deed; the master and fellows of
that house being for ever to pray specially, and to celebrate an obit
yearly, for Sibill, and five persons she should name, with a mass by
note; and likewise to distribute 10 marks yearly on the day thereof
to the master and fellows for the prayers and obit before mentioned.
But this never took effect; for on the death of this lady, it descended
to Catherine, daughter of Robert Boys, son of Sir Roger, and the
Lady Sibill, which Robert died in or about 1450, his will being proved
on the 6th of November in the said year; (fn. 9) and by the marriage of the
said Catherine to Sir Edmund Jenny, of Knateshall in Suffolk, (fn. 10) he became lord and died so, in the 15th of Henry VIII. leaving Francis his
grandson, aged 13 years, his heir; son of William, eldest son to Sir
Edmund, the said Sir Edmund, by his will dated in 1522, bequeathing
all the lordships here abovementioned, to his grandson. (fn. 11) From the
Jennys it came to the Bedingfelds; and in the reign of Queen
Elizabeth, Anthony Bedingfeld, Esq. 3d son of Sir Henry Bedingfeld
[Page 010]
of Oxburgh, was lord, which Anthony married Elizabeth, one of the
daughters and coheirs of Ralph Danyel of Swaffham, Gent. and Anthony Bedingfeld of Testerton in Norfolk, Esq. (fn. 12) descended from the
aforesaid Anthony, died lord in 1707, whose son, Francis Bedingfeld,
sold it to Henry Ibbot of Swaffham, attorney; and his son, Benjamin Ibbot, Gent. is the present lord.


The aforesaid Danyel held also a capital messuage here, called




Berrer's, or Bures-Hall,
Which hall was purchased of the Beding felds by the Eyres. In
1739, John Eyre, Esq. died, and it is at present enjoyed by Dr. Eyre,
but no manor or lordship belongs to it, it being annexed to the other.




Elwyn's Groose's, and White Manor, (fn. 13) 
In the 24th of Henry III. Petronilla le Groos was found to hold here
the fourth part of a fee of the Lord Fitz-Walter, which John le Groos
held in the 30th of Edward III. John White held this in the 3d of
Henry IV. and soon after, it seems to be annexed to the foregoing
lordships.


The fines are at the lord's will, and the eldest son is heir.


In this parish was also a hamlet called Erneford, which stood by
the bridge that retains the name at this day, near which stands a farmhouse; this bridge is over a small stream that arises at East Bradenham, and runs hence to the Pickenhams, and probably was anciently
known by the name of Erne. In a deed, I find that Richard son of
Richard le Glover de Ernford juxta Hale, confirmed to Godfrey de
Ernford, chaplain, a messuage in this hamlet, dated at North Pickenham 13th of Edward II.


The temporalities of Westacre priory in Holm and Hale were
taxed in 1428, at 2l. 16s. 6d.; of Sporle priory at 6d.; and of the
canons of Thetford at 11s. The Prioress of Blakebergh had lands
here, and Jesus college in Oxford owns an enclosure called Crakeshields.


As here were formerly two capital lordships of Holm and Hale,
so these lordships had for some time two churches to which they presented. Of the church of Holm. In the beginning of Edward I.
Sir Robert de Hulmo was patron, the rector then had a manse, with
30 acres, the was rectory was estimated at 10 marks, Peter-pence 4d. ob.
Before this there was both a rector and vicar belonging to this church;
on the 29th of July, 1243, William de Ralegh Bishop of Norwich consolidated the vicarage of Holm, then void by the death of
John de Happesbure, chaplain, it appearing that Thomas de Blundevile,
Bishop, his predecessor, had collated the said John to the said vicarage,
[Page 011]
and also had collated Thomas de Norwich to it. (fn. 14) Thomas de
Tregoz, rector of the church of Holm, being present, and appealing
in behalf of himself, and his patrons, John Lord Strange, and
earnestly desiring the said vicarage to be consolidated to his rectory,
and this was to take effect on the death of the said Thomas de Norwich.


HOLM CHURCH.


1340, Robert de Beeston was instituted to South-Holm. Richard
Burwode, patron, Robert de Burwode, rector.


1352, John de Tifteshall, on the resignation of Burwode. Stephen
de Tifteshall. And soon after it was consolidated to the church
of Hale.


HALE CHURCH.


In the beginning of King Edward the First's reign, there appear to
have been three portions in this church, two held by Adam Talebot,
and one by Alan Colyn; there was a manse and 30 acres of land belonging to it; it was estimated at 10 marks, and paid Peter-pence
4d. ob.


1317, Adam Talebot. Peter Talerot of Fincham, by the consent of Sir Edmund Illey.


1320, Thomas Doraunt, John de Plumstede, rector afterwards of
Clenchwarton.


1334, Ralph de Welle. Sir Edmund Illey.


1349, William de Illey. Sir Edmund de Illey.


1349, EdmundCole. Alan de Illey. Cole died in 1383.


1374, John Wrygthe. Sir Richard Illey, and Edmund Cole
rector of a mediety of Hale.


1388, Robert Ferrers. Robert Illey.


1399, Jon Atte Fen. Sir Roger Boys, this turn.


1405, Thomas Soper. William Soper of Myldenhale.


1408, John South. Sir Roger Boys. He was custos of the chantry
of All-Saints in the church of Harington in Lincoln diocese, and exchanged with Soper.


John Cokesson occurs rector in 1421, as appears from the will
of Sir Roger Boys, and was one of his executors; his own will bears
date on Easter-day, 1431, in which year he died, and was buried in
the chancel of Hale, on the south side; he bequeathed 40s. to the
new tower then building, and legacies to Trinity and St. Andrew's
GILDS.


1431, John Grome. Sibilla, relict of Sir Roger Boys. In his
will, proved 3d November, 1438, he styles himself rector of St. Andrew
of Hill-Hale, and gives 6s. 8d. to the high altar of the old church of
Holm. (fn. 15) 


1434, John South was rector.


1438, John Cokston. By Sibilla, &c. By his will proved 27
May, 1442, he ordered to be buried before the image of St. Andrew
in the chancel.


Richard Pye occurs rector of Holm Hale in 1439, as appears
from the will of Robert Boys, Esq.; and on the 4th October,


1442, Richard Pye to Hill Hale, as I take it.


[Page 012]
1442, John Osmund. By Sibilla, &c.


1450, Robert Faux. Ditto.


1453, Robert Mayster, to Hale St. Andrew, called the new church, on
the resignation of Osmund. Edmund Blake, Esq.


1454, Edmund Blake. Edmund Blake, Esq.


1470, William Palmer, collated by lapse; by his will, dated 11 January, 1473, he gives a legacy to St. Mary's light, &c. About this
time the three portions abovementioned were consolidated, for after
this I meet with only one rector.


1513, Brian Lucas; his will was proved 7th April, 1543.


1543, John Clenchwarton. John Jenny, Esq. Ob.


1557, Christopher Hotsone, ob. Arthur Jenny, Esq.


1559, John Watson, ob. by lapse.


1560, John Parkinson, (fn. 16) ob. the Queen.


1566, John Leeder, A. M. Arthur Jenny, Esq. res.


1579, Francis Abbot. Ditto.


1582, Robert Boninge. The Queen, by lapse.


1595, Marmaduke Cholmlye. Eustace Bedingfeld, Esq. son
and heir of Anthony; he was also rector of Wolverton Norfolk.


1599, Henry Bury, res. The Queen. In his answer to King
James's Queries in 1603, he says there were 189 communicants here;
he was vicar of Sporle.


1612, Leonard Burton, S. T. B. James Jordan, this turn.


1621, Edward Barker, A. M. and licensed preacher; by James Jordan, on a grant from Ann, widow of Anthony Bedingfeld, Esq.


1639, Dudley Hopper, ob. The University of Cambridge. (fn. 17) 


1661. Robert Wright, ob. Thomas Bedingfeld of Testerton.
Esq.


1675, Timothy Caryan. Thomas Bedingfeld, Esq.


1711, John Rolfe, A. M. on Caryan's death. By Jeremy Benton:
united to Necton.


On the 13 June, in the 4th of William and Mary, Anthony
Bedingfeld of Testerton, Esq. sold the advowson to Edmund Booth,
clerk; and his daughters, Penelope and Sarah, to Jeremiah Benton,
25 August 1709, and he to John Rolfe, clerk, 30th December 1713;
and Rolfe to Benjamin Young, attorney at Swaffham in August, 1720,
who gave it to his youngest son, Mr. William Young of Caius
college in Cambridge, who in 1749, at the death of Rolf, presented
his cousin,


The Rev. Mr. Thomas Patrick Young of Caius college, who
is now rector, and holds it united to Necton.


This rectory is valued in the King's Books by the name of HolmeHale, alias Hale Brian, at 12l. 16s. 5d. ob. and its sworn value
being 49l. per annum, it is discharged from first-fruits: synodals 1s.
10d. procurations 11s. To this rectory belongs a manor, of which the
rector is lord. It stands thus in the Revision in 1630; Holme-Hale,
alias North-Hale, with the church of South-Holme, consolidated.


The church of Holm-Hale is dedicated to St. Andrew, and was
begun to be built in the reign of King Richard III. and was some
[Page 013]
years in building, as appears from several old wills; the tower was
building in 1431, and in 1435, when John Wyscard bequeathed to
the building of it 40s. and to the high altar of the new church 3s. 4d.
and to that of the old church of Holm-Hale 6s. 8d. which was then
standing. (fn. 18) It is a lofty pile of flint and boulder; the body or nave
is in length about 18 yards, and in breadth, including the north isle,
about 10 yards. The roof is of oak, supported by the effigies of priests,
&c. but they are beat off, covered, together with the isle, with lead.
The tower stands at the west end, and is built of the aforesaid materials, being very large and strong, with quoins and embattlements of
free-stone, in which hang 6 large musical bells. The chancel is tiled;
there is a north porch leaded. The parsonage joins to the east part of
the churchyard.


On a gravestone in the nave, (fn. 19) 


Here lyeth the Body of Robert Hammond Gent. who left
this life April 16, 1682.


On a gravestone against the reading-desk, with a brass plate,

Vous que cette Tombe voies, pour les ames Edmond Illeye
Chevalier, et Alice sa femme et les Enfans priez


The shields of brass are reaved; it is in memory of Sir Edmund Illey,
and Alice his lady.


In a window in the nave are the remains of the arms of


Blake, ermine, on a pile indented sable, bezanty, two lions
gambs erect and erased gules, in an orle of escallops of the second,
over all a bendlet vert.


In the north isle is a stone for Mr. Edward Rust, who died July 8,
1748, Æt. 67, whose family hath been in this parish for many ages.


In the east window of the north isle is the arms of


Illey, ermine, two chevronels sable.


On the woodwork of the uppermost stall of this isle is the shield of


Jenny and Buckle quarterly.


Jenney, erm. a bend gul. cottised or, Buckle, sab. a chevron
between three buckles lozengy, their tongues upward, or, impaling
quarterly, Boys, arg. two coronels, and a canton gules, over all on
a bend sab. an annulet or, and Illey as above.


The chancel is separated from the nave by an old screen; it is in
length about 26 feet, and in breadth about 15; near the east end on
the pavement lies a marble stone with the arms of Eyre, arg. on a
chevron sable, three quaterfoils or.


Hic jacet Henricus Eyre Armiger è clarâ Stirpe in Agro
Derbiensi oriundus, Juris olim peritissimus, et Insigne Virtutis
Exemplar. Sola manet Virtus post funera, dum vivis, hanc ama;
Vale, obiit Die Octavo Octob. Ao Dni. 1719, Ætat. 52.


[Page 014]
Near to this, is another with the arms of Eyre impaling Bedingfeld.


Here lieth the Body of Mary Eyre Widow, and Relict of
Thomas Eyre, of Bury's-Hall Esq; Deceased, one of the
Daughters of Sir Henry Bedingfeld late of Beck-Hall Knt. and
Bart. she was very Exemplary and eminent for her Piety,
Charity and other Virtues, and exchanged this Life for a better
the 28 Day of September 1710, Ætat. 67.


On a black marble,


Hic jacet Johannes Eyre Armiger, Herì omnium Deliciæ,
hodiè, Luctus et desiderium, Juris Asylum, et priscæ Fidei vivum
exemplar, ad cujus privatum Tribunal, dissidentes procul dissiti,
Ipsique Sæpè incogniti, certatim provocarunt, cujus Fores, Viduis,
Orphanis, Egenis, Calamitosis omnibus patuere semper, Qui non
sibi, sed alijs omnibus natus videbatur, Qui pacem cum omnibus
semper habuit, Pacem inter omnes conciliavit: super defuncti
Tumulum, dicant nunc omnes.


Requiescat in pace.


obijt Anno 1739. Martij 12. Ætatis 62.


Also one with the arms of Bedingfeld impaling two swords in
saltier, their points down between four flowers de-lis.


Here lieth the Body of Anthony Bedingfeld, Gent. Son of
Thomas Bedingfeld, late of Testerton, Gent. who dyed September
9, 1707, Aged 60 Years.


Adjoining another, with the same impaled coat,


Here lieth the Body of Margaret Bedingfeld Relict of Anthony Bedingfeld late of Testerton Esq; who dyed December 19,
1722, Aged 78. Requiescat in Pace.


1503, February 7, Edmund Miller, alias Mason of Holm-Hale,
Gent. being about to go to perform a pilgrimage, he had vowed to
Rome, made his will, and made William Palmer, rector here, his
executor; but if he went, he returned safe; for he was interred in
1505.
























Footnotes


1.  In Holmo tenuit i. lib. homo, dim.
car terre, semper dim. car. 7, iv. pars
mol. 11 acr. prati. val. v s. hoc etiam
habuit R. Bainard.
Sub titulo, Sc. Invasio Baignardi.
(Doms. fo. 301.)
2.   Rot. Hund. in Cur. Recept. Scaij
Westm.
3.   Plita Norw. crast. Sci Hillarij 15 Ed.
I. V. 28. N. 24 in dorso. and V. 31. and
32, in dorso.
4.   Holm tenuit Godricus, mo Rex,
tunc dim. car. terre, tunc v. bord. mo
iv. tunc 1. car. mo dim. silva ad xx.
porc. semper ii. part. mol. ii. acr. prati.
tunc val. x. sol. mo xv. sol. See in
Swaffham, in Aspal's manor.
5.   Plita Cor. &c. ut supra. Fin. Norf.
Ed. 2. L. 2. N. 2. Cart. 15 Edw. 1. Fin.
Norf. 13 Ric. 2. L. 22. N. 9.
6.   In 1401 John Gurnay, Edmund
Oldhalle, John Drewe, rector of Harpele,
Edmund Belleyeter, burgess of Lyn,
Robert Botekesham, Thomas Brigge,
Clement Herward, and other feoffees,
held the 1st court and lete.
7.   Regr. Hurning, Norw. p. 31, and
96.
8.   Hill-Hale-Hall is now the manorhouse. This manor hath lete, and all
royalties.
9.   Regr. Arlegn, p. 46.
10.   About 1472 William Jenny, serjeant
at law, and William his son, and their
feoffees, were lords of the conjoined
manors, and free tenements, of Whiteoke, Hillhall, White's Elwyn's Grooses
and Fransham's with their members in
Holmhale.
11.  Eschaet. 15 Hen. 8. Regr. Briggs,
Norw. fol. 109.
12.   32 Eliz. Eustace Beding field, Esq.
lord.
13.   The first court of John son of Sir
John White, Knt. and Alice his wife,
daughter of Robert de Bronham or Burnham, burgess of Lyn, ao. 1420.
14.   Lib. Instit. Norw. and Norw. Domesday.
15.   Regr. Surflete, p. 183. Both these
churches were dedicated to St. Andrew.
16.   Presbyter conjugatus, doctus, residet
hospitalis, prædicat. licentiatus, duo.
Archiepi. Parkerj Certificator.
17.   As a living belonging to a Papist.
18.   Regr. Surflete, 183.
19.   Margaret Jakys was buried in this
church in 1528.














PreviousTable of contentsNext


























Footer menu






Help


About the project


Terms of use


Privacy and Cookies


Accessibility











Version 6.0. © 2024, University of London






















