* 


iy 


\y 


"7 


"> 


\ 


^J 


NX   - 


M 


SOUTHWORTH    PRINTING    CO. 
PORTLAND.    MAINE 


i 


BRACKETT  GENEALOGY 


DESCENDANTS  OF 


ANTHONY    BRACKETT 

OF  PORTSMOUTH 
AND 

CAPTAIN  RICHARD  BRACKETT 

OF  BRAINTREE 


WITH 


BIOGRAPHIES    OF    THE    IMMIGRANT    FATHERS, 

THEIR    SONS,    AND    OTHERS    OF 

THEIR   POSTERITY 


BY  HERBERT  I.  BRACKETT 


"Our  fathers,  who  were  they?" 


PUBLISHED  BY  H.  I.  BRACKETT,  WASHINGTON.  D.  C. 
1907 


AJRY 

411 

ASTOR,  LENOX  AND 
TILDI  iON3. 

R  1907  L. 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2008  with  funding  from 

Microsoft  Corporation 


http://www.archive.org/details/brackettgenealogOObrac 


"I  have  observed  that  old  people  live  much  in 
the  past.  As  I  grow  older  I  find  myself  turning 
oftener  to  the  days  in  the  old  home.  I  hear  the 
patter  and  the  prattle  of  childish  feet  and  voice  ; 
light  step  of  youth  and  maid;  sober  footfall  and 
serious  word  of  man  and  matron;  the  slowing  step 
and  failing  voice  of  age.  All,  all  are  gone!  I 
alone  am  left  of 

'The    dear    home    faces    whereupon 
The    fitful    firelight    paled    and    shown. 
Hence    forward,    listen    as    I    will 
The    voices    of    that    hearth    are    still. 
How    strange    it    seems    with    so    much    gone 
Of    life    and    love    to    still    live    on.'  ' 

Mrs.  Silence  J.  Soule. 


Two  hundred  fifty  years  ago  on  or  near  the 
site  of  the  monument  perhaps  could  be  seen  on  a 
clear  and  pleasant  da}-,  the  herculean  form  of  the 
man  in  whose  memory  the  monument  is  erected, 
with  hand  shading  his  brow  as  he  strained  his 
vision  to  see  the  limits  of  his  vast  domain  border- 
ing on  the  most  beautiful  of  the  island-gemmed  bays 
on  the  coast  of  Maine.  In  the  present  time  there 
are  few  successive  minutes  in  a  day  when  descend- 
ants of  his  are  not  passing  over  its  waters  to  and 
from  his  beloved  Casco.  As  they  glide  over  the 
bay,  if  they  choose,  they  can  see  where  or  near 
where  he  stood,  and  looking  also  may  honor  his 
memory  with  a  thought.  Let  them  think  of  him  as 
Portland's  first  settler.  If  to  this  they  object  because 
the  distinction  was  by  chance,  then  let  them  think 
of  him  as  the  Deputy  President  of  Iyigonia.  If  this 
does  not  please  them  for  the  reason  that  the  honor 
was  but  the  gift  of  his  fellow  men,  then  let  them 
think  of  him  as  the  George  Cleeve  who 

"Would    be    tenant    to    never    a    man    in- 
New    England." 


ARMORIAL  BEARINGS. 


A  description  of  the  coat  of  arms,  a  cut  of  which  appears  on 
page  554,  is 

Shield,  sable  (black),  three  garbs,  or  (gold).  Crest,  goat's 
head,  or.  Wreath  in  six  divided,  the  two  colors  of  the  shield,  black 
and  gold.  Helmet  and  mantle,  or.  Scroll,  sable.  In  the  introduc- 
tion on  page  6  it  is  stated  that  this  coat  of  arms  is  not  claimed  by  any 
other  than  the  Brackett  family.  It  is  claimed  by  the  Brickett  family; 
its  right  has  not  been  established  in  any  court  of  heraldry. 

The  cut  of  the  coat  of  arms  on  page  438,  in  many  particulars,  is 
like  the  coat  of  arms  of  the  Brockett  family,  described, 

Shield  of  gold  with  cro^s  patonce  (three  points  to  each  arm  of 
the  cross,  slightly  curved),  sable.  The  crest  a  brock  or  young 
deer  lodged. 

Some  of  those  persons  who  have  representations  of  the  coat  of 
arms  appearing  on  page  438  are  authority  for  the  statement  that 
the  cross  is  gold  faintly  outlined  with  red  on  a  shield  of  black,  its 
border  blue;  the  crest  a  brock,  statani. 


ILLUSTRATIONS  AND  MAPS. 


Cleeve's  Monument, 


PAGE 

Opposite  to  vii 


Site  where  Anthony  Braekett  was  killed,        ,  .     Opposite  to  <i5 

[A  sign  was  nailed  to  a  tree  on  Deering  avenue, 
Portland,  Me.,  giving  the  location  of  the  house  of 
Anthony  Braekett,  where  tradition  said  it  stood,  and 
where  is  now  a  cellar-hole  and  a  tree  growing  in  it,  as 
shown  in  the  picture.  Anthony  Braekett  was  killed 
near  the  spot.  The  locality  is  about  one  mile  west  of 
the  city  hall,  four  or  five  rods  east  from  Deering  avenue, 
near  the  bank  under  which  the  Worcester  &  Nashua 
Branch  of  the  Boston  &  Maine  railroad  now  (1907) 
runs.  It  is  in  the  ''front  field"  of  the  Deering  farm 
and  back  of  Deering  Park.] 


Map  of  Falmouth  and  Casco  bay. 

Map  of  Berwick,  1st  Parish, 

Plat  of  First  church  of  Falmouth,  1763, 

Map  of  Greenland  and  Rye, 

Coat  of  Arms,  .... 

Coat  of  Arms  (Braintree), 


69 
96 
161 
360 
438 
544 


CONTENTS 


CONTENTS. 


INTRODUCTION. 

PART     I. 

PAGE 

Chapter  I. 
George  Cleeve,    the  Deputy  President  of  Lagouia,  .  .         10 

Chapter  II. 
Anthony  Brackett,  the  Immigrant,    of  Portsmouth,         .         .         47 

Chapter  III. 
Captain  Anthony  Brackett  of  Falmouth,  ....         60 

Chapter  IV. 
Thomas  Brackett  of  Falmouth,         ......  72 

Chapter  V. 
Anthony  Brackett,   the  Soldier,         ......  76 

Chapter  VI. 
Zachariah  Brackett  of  Back  Cove,  .....  81 

Chapter  VII. 
Lieutenant  Joshua  Brackett  of  Greenland,       ....         87 

Chapter  VIII. 
.Samuel  Brackett,   the  First  in  Berwick,  ....         94 

Chapter  IX. 
Samuel  Brackett,  Jr.,   of  Berwick,  .....         99 

Chapter  X. 
Anthony  Brackett  of  Boston, 102 

Chapter  XI. 
Captain  Richard  Brackett  of  Braintree,  ....       109 


xiv  CONTENTS 

PART     II. 


Division  1. 
John   Brackett  of  Rye,   and  His  Descendants.  .         .         .       122 

Division  2. 
Colonel  Thomas  Brackett  of  Bristol,   and  His  Descendants,   .       124 

Division  3. 
Abraham  Brackett  of  Falmonth,   and  His  Descendants.  .       133 

Division  4. 
Anthony  Brackett,  Jr.,  of  Stroudwater,  and  His  Descendants,        158 

Division  5. 
Thomas  Brackett  of    Morrill's  Corner,    and   His  Descendants,        183 

Division  0. 
Zachariah    Brackett,    Jr.,    of    Stevens'    Plains,    and    His    De- 
scendants, .......       212 

Division  7. 
Lieutenant    Joshna    Brackett    of    Presumpscot,    and    His    De- 
scendants, .......       227 

Division  8. 
John  Brackett  of  Berwick,   and  His  Descendants,  .  .       253 

Division  9. 
Isaac  Brackett  of  Berwick,   and  His  Descendants,  .  .       285 

Division  10. 
Samuel  Brackett  of  Berwick,   and  His  Descendants,        .  .       290 

Division  11. 
Deacon  James   Brackett  of  Berwick,   and  His  Descendants,     .        311 

Division  12. 
Joshua    Brackett  of  Acton,   Me.,    and  His  Descendants,  .        345 

Division  13. 
Captain  John   Brackett  of  Greenland,   and   His  Descendants,  359 


CONTENTS  xv 

PAGE 

Division  14. 
Samuel  Brackett  of  New  Market,   and  His  Descendants,        .       384 

Division  15. 
Anthony  Brackett  of  Falmouth,   and  His  Descendants,  .       410 

Division  16. 
James  Brackett,   the  Peacemaker,   and  His  Descendants,         .       436 

Division  17. 
Captain     Nathaniel     Brackett    of    Greenland,     and     His    De- 
scendants, 477 

Division  18. 
Ebenezer  Brackett  of  Dedham,   and  His  Descendants,  .       485 

Division  19. 
John  Brackett  of  Dedham,   and  His  Descendants,  .  .       519 

Division  20. 
Joseph  Brackett  of  Braiutree,   and  His  Descendants,       .  .       520 

Division  21. 
Nathan  Brackett  of  Braintree,   and  His  Descendants,      .  .       535 


Appendix       ..........         5<si 


Index  ..........         587 


INTRODUCTION. 


THE  PREPARATION  of  the  Brackett  Genealogy  has  been  in 
course  for  over  fifty  years.  One  person  essayed  to  compile  the 
genealogy  of  a  branch  of  the  family  whose  progenitor  was  the 
compiler's  great-grandfather;  another,  in  addition  to  such  a  task, 
attempted  to  give  a  brief  account  of  the  immigrant  forefathers. 
Many  have  worked  along  different  lines,  each  gathered  data  and 
recorded  it  which,  but  for  their  forethought,  would  have  been  lost. 
All  these  several  collections  have  been  utilized  in  compiling  this 
volume;  the  great  assistance  they  have  afforded  the  writer  can  hard- 
ly be  estimated. 

The  busy  mind  and  pen  of  Mr.  Adino  Nye  Brackett  as  early  as 
1840,  were  employed  in  the  writing  of  an  account  of  the  lives  of  some 
of  his  ancestors,  and  a  genealogy  of  the  branch  of  the  family,  of 
which  his  grandfather  was  the  progenitor.  He  was  born  in  1777, 
in  Greenland,  perhaps  within  ten  miles  from  where  Anthony,  the 
selectman,  lived  and  died;  he  lived  there  or  near  there,  until  he  reached 
manhood,  but  Greenland  had  not  been  his  home  for  over  forty  years 
at  the  time  lie  wrote;  he  was  then  living  in  Lancaster,  N.  H.,  and 
was  well  advanced  in  years.  He  wrote  from  his  recollections  of 
what  had  been  told  him,  and,  perhaps,  had  not  recently  visited  the 
scenes  of  his  childhood  to  verify  and  add  to  his  recollections.  He 
had  talked  with  a  man  on  the  subject  of  the  family  history,  viz.:  his 
grandfather,  who  in  turn  had  the  opportunity  to  learn  his  ancestry  in 
America,  from  one,  his  father,  Joshua  Brackett  of  the  third  genera- 
tion, who  had  seen  and  well  remembered  the  immigrant. 

Yet  proof  by  oral  or  other  tradition  that  Anthony,  the  selectman, 
was  the  immigrant  forefather  of  all  the  early  Maine  and  New  Hamp- 
shire Bracketts  is  not  furnished  by  Adino  Nye  Brackett.  However, 
through  a  contemporary  of  his,  this  and  other  traditions  are  ours.  A 
Sarah  Brackett,  the  wife  of  Elias  Field  of  Phillips,  Maine,  was  the 
person.  It  was  her  pleasure  to  attentively  listen  to  the  grandsire's 
tales,  and  being  blessed  with  a  retentive  memory  and  a  sense  of 
their  value,  she  faithfully  repeated  them  to  others.  From  the  lips  of 
her  father,  Abraham  Brackett,  she  heard  the  story  of  the  good  old 
man  who  settled  at  "the  Pascatawa,"  and  of  his  courageous  sons;  of 
the  sacking  and  destruction  of  Falmouth;  of  the  flight  to  Hampton; 
and  of  the  return  to  the  old  farm  at  Back  Cove.  She  had  no  chil- 
dren, but  near  her  lived  her  brother  James,  who  had  a  family.  To 
his  children  she  told  the  traditions.  One  of  his  children  born  in 
1801,  was  named  Nathaniel  Mitton  Brackett,  named  for  his  grand- 
father's great-uncle.  The  fact  is  instanced  as  showing  how  faithful- 
ly oral  traditions  were  preserved  in  this  branch  of  the  family. 

A  Mr.  Luther  Brackett  about  i860  made  quite  extensive  col- 
lections of  data  relative  to  the  descendants  of  his  grandfather.  The 
writer  had  the  benefit  of  his  work,  and  it  is  pleasing  to  state  that  it 


2  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

was  found  to  have  been  performed  with  care  and  accuracy.  Also  in 
the  sixties,  Mr.  Jeffrey  Richardson  published  the  names  of,  and  other 
data  pertaining  to,  about  six  hundred  descendants  of  Captain 
Richard  Brackett  of  Braintree. 

During  the  next  thirty  years,  though  several  persons  made  col- 
lections of  material  with  the  designs  probably  of  constructing  a 
genealogical  tree  limited  to  the  descendants  of  their  respective  father 
or  grandfather,  it  is  not  known  that  anj'  person  endeavored  to  write 
an  extensive  history  of  the  family.  However,  in  the  decade  begin- 
ning with  1890,  several  persons  commenced  lines  of  work  more 
extensive  in  scope  than  had  been  theretofore  attempted;  each  had  a 
design  of  his  own  and  worked  along  lines  independent  of  the  others. 
Ransom  D.  Brackett  of  Coldwater,  Michigan,  during  a  period  of 
about  six  years,  conducted  a  fair-sized  correspondence  and  made 
quite  far-reaching  investigations.  He  suspended  this  pursuit  for  a 
time  with  the  intention  of  resuming  it  when  he  had  the  leisure  so  to 
do.  On  Christmas  day  in  1902,  he  died  while  attending  Cambridge 
University.  Through  the  kindness  of  his  father,  Mr.  Albert  E. 
Brackett,  the  writer  had  the  benefit  of  the  labors  of  this  talented 
3^oung  man. 

Two  gentlemen,  Judge  F.  M.  Ra)^  and  Mr.  L,.  B.  Chapman, 
living  in  Portland,  Me.,  about  the  year  1896,  in  their  efforts  to 
preserve  and  publish  facts  of  local  historical  value  pertaining  to 
persons  and  events  of  whom  they  had  a  personal  knowledge,  made 
easy  of  access  many  matters  of  interest  relative  to  Bracketts  who  had 
lived  in  Portland  and  its  vicinity.  Family  records,  abstracts  from 
ancient  deeds  and  the  recollections  and  statements  of  aged  persons 
of  the  name,  were  published  in  the  local  papers.  Copies  of  their 
articles  were  furnished  the  writer.  From  Mr.  Chapman  were  also 
received  man}'  clippings  and  original  notes,  the  product  of  his 
research  in  musty  records  and  papers,  the  jottings  of  conversations 
and  memoranda  of  his  own  recollections. 

During  the  same  year,  perhaps  at  an  earlier  date,  Mr.  Alpheus 
D.  Brackett  of  Everett,  Mass.,  commenced  collecting  data  and  mak- 
ing researches  to  a  greater  extent  than  any  person  had  done.  Asso- 
ciated with  him  as  a  helper  was  Mr.  Nathan  Goold  of  Portland. 
The  records  of  Berwick,  Me.,  were  made  to  yield  their  hidden  treas- 
ure; all  publications  pertaining  to  the  Portsmouth  Bracketts  were 
carefully  searched  and  the  collections  of  Messrs.  Ray  and  Chapman 
were  carefully  collated.  The  result  was  a  new  publication,  a  most 
valuable  series  of  charts  in  design,  appearing  in  the  form  of  leaflets. 
These  Mr.  A.  L,.  Brackett  distributed  gratuitously,  and  copies  can 
now  be  found  in  most  large  libraries.  He  carried  his  preparations 
much  further  towards  a  still  larger  publication,  collected  a  large 
amount  of  both  genealogical  and  historical  data  at  a  considerable 
expense,  when,  because  of  other  matters  requiring  all  his  attention, 
he  was  unable  to  carry  out  his  original  design.  In  the  year  1900  he 
placed  all  his  manuscripts  and  other  material  at  the  disposal  of  the 
writer. 

Mrs.  Grace  Brackett  Scott  of  Newmarket,  N.  H.,  has  lent  her 
aid  to  quite  every  person  who  has  attempted  the  compiling  of  the 
family  history.  Favorably  gifted  and  ardently  inclined  for  research, 
and  living  quite  all  her  life  in  the  field  the  most  promising  of  results, 


INTRODUCTION  3 

from  her  childhood  days  she  has  improved  her  opportunities  to 
marked  advantage  and  is  well  equipped  with  reliable  information  as 
to  the  history  of  the  family  in  New  Hampshire  from  the  period  of  the 
coming  of  the  immigrant.  The  writer  is  indebted  to  her  for  data  of 
quite  all  kinds,  not  only  a  copy  of  her  well  kept  notes,  but  also  of 
correspondence,  for  tradition,  for  story,  for  interviews  with  those 
who  would  not  answer  a  letter,  for  the  searching  of  records,  for  trips 
for  discovery  of  sources  of  information,  and  for  viewing  premises  to 
be  written  about.  No  request  that  was  made  did  she  fail  to  respond 
to;  many  a  page  in  this  volume  is  due  to  her  untiring  efforts,  and 
unstinted  praise  she  is  deserving  of. 

The  many  correspondents  of  the  writer  have  done  quite  all  that 
was  asked  of  them,  and  through  their  doing  those  things  the  work 
has  been  completed. 

Mention  should  be  made  of  others  who  have  rendered  the  writer 
most  valuable  assistance,  viz.:  Mr.  A.  R.  Stubbs,  librarian  of  the 
Maine  Genealogical  Society,  Mr.  Frank  V.  Loring  of  Phcenix,  Ari- 
zona, Mrs.  Marcia  F.  Hilton  of  East  Andover,  N.  H.,  and  Mrs.  J. 
M.  Hilton  of  Belmont,  Mass.  The  three  last  named  are  genealogists 
who  appreciate  a  favor  and  return  two  for  one  received.  The  writer 
acknowledges  that  he  can  never  hope  to  make  payment  in  kind  for 
their  services  to  him. 

The  writer,  in  the  fall  of  1897,  set  out  to  compile  a  history  of  the 
Brackett  family  in  America.  Among  the  many  genealogies  in  the 
Library  of  Congress  there  was  not  one  which  contained  mention  of 
his  Brackett  ancestry. 

A  review  of  New  England  local  histories  disclosed  that  Bracketts 
were  among  the  first  settlers  of  Boston  and  Braintree,  Mass.;  Ports- 
mouth, N.  H.,  and  Portland,  Maine;  also  that  they  had  served  in 
the  Indian  and  colonial  wars.  Whatever  may  be  said  to  portray  the 
fierceness  of  conflicts  with  the  Indians  in  any  part  of  our  country, 
nowhere  else  than  in  Maine  was  it  true  that  for  many  years  the 
Indians  were  victorious;  there  the  Whites  returned  to  their  homes  as 
suppliants.  From  the  commencement  of  King  Philip's  war  to  the 
fall  of  Quebec,  there  were  over  forty  years  of  warfare  for  the  people 
of  Maine  and  New  Hampshire.  At  no  point  was  the  conflict  hotter, 
nowhere  did  the  contending  parties  meet  oftener  and  battle  longer, 
with  such  varying  success  on  both  sides,  as  at  Falmouth.  During 
these  blood}'  struggles,  in  the  front  ranks,  in  command  at  the  most 
crucial  places  and  times  were  men  of  our  name.  They  did  their 
duty,  sacrificed  their  lives, 

"Fought  like  brave  men  long  and  well," 
as  did  their  comrades  in  arms,  and  are  as  deserving  of  having  the 
story  of  their  lives  told  to  their  descendants,  as  were  any  of  their  day. 

The  thought  occurred  that  to  genealogical  data,  it  would  not  be 
amiss,  if  were  added  accounts  of  the  lives  of  our  early  ancestors  in 
America  in  compiling  the  family  history.  Such  accounts  appear  in 
the  work.  It  is  hoped  that  some  measure  of  justice  has  been  meted 
out  to  those  deserving  men  whom  oblivion  was  fast  claiming.  Should 
the  recounting  of  their  deeds  make  your  pulse  to  quicken  and  your 
eyes  to  brighten,  imagine,  if  you  can,  the  quickness  of  the  pulse  and 
the  brightness  of  the  eye  of  your  ancestor  when  a  boy  as  he  listened 
to  his  grandsire's  tales  of  these  very  deeds,  and  wonder  how  it  was 
that  in  your  line  some  one  failed  to  pass  down  those  tales. 


I  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Faithful  \\<>rk  has  been  performed  to  correctly  trace  the  lineage 
of  all  ol  the  name  mentioned  in  this  volume;  however,  in  a  few 
instances,  lineage  is  based  only  on  probability,  and  in  one  or  two 
instances,  on  conjecture;  in  those  instances  the  probabilities  and 
conjectures  are  stated  at  length  in  their  proper  connection. 

It  has  not  been  learned  from  what  part  of  Great  Britain, 
Anthony,  the  selectman,  came  to  America.  It  has  been  written  of 
him,  with  little  or  no  authority,  that  he  was  a  Welshman;  again  that 
he  was  a  Scotchman.  He  probably  was  an  Englishman.  It  is  quite 
generally  claimed  and  supposed  that  he  was  closely  related  to  the 

ketts  who  settled  in  boston;  it  is  perhaps  true  that  the  relation- 
ship was  so  near  that  they  of  that  day  could  trace  it,  but  it  is  not 
thought  that  it  was  so  close  as  first  cousins.  The  name  Richard 
even  to  this  day  occurs  but  once  among  the  Brackett  descendants 

inthony  and  that  in  comparatively  recent  years.  The  name 
Anthony  does  not  occur  among  the  Brackett  descendants  of  Richard. 
However,  as  one  was  an  Episcopalian  and  the  other  a  Puritan  it  can 
properly  be  inferred  that  they  were  not  on  friendly  terms.  There  is 
nothing  to  show  or  to  warrant  the  belief  that  Anthony  and  Richard 
were  closely  related.  There  is  a  tradition  among  the  descendants  of 
Richard  that  three  brothers  by  the  name  of  Brackett  were  among  the 
earliest  immigrants  to  Massachusetts  and  the  first  of  the  name  to 
settle  in  America.  It  required  no  great  stretch  of  imagination  to  say 
that  the  number  of  the  brothers  was  four,  and  it  has  been  so  pub- 
lished. The  writer  has  never  heard  anything  to  confirm  such  publi- 
cation. (  See  further  as  to  tradition  of  the  three  brothers  in  chapter 
on  life  of  Captain  Richard).  The  fourth  brother  was  stated  to  be 
Anthony,  and  among  the  others  one  was  John  who  settled  in  New 
Haven,  Conn.      The  latter  was  not  a  Brackett;    he  was  a  Brockett. 

A  eoat  ol  anus,  il  the  family  ever  had  one,  would  serve  to-dis- 
where  in  England  it  had  its  residence.  Many  of  the  descend- 
ants of  James  brackett,  the  peacemaker  (son  of  Joshua,  son  of 
Thomas,  son  ol    Anthony),  have  in  their  possession  illustrations  of  a 

of  arms  which  some  of  them  contend  is  the  real  coat  of  arms  of 
the  family.  It  is  understood  by  the  writer,  though  he  does  not 
affirm  it  as  a  fact,  that  in  1X05  a  James  Brackett  brought  from  Eng- 
land to  America,  the  first  illustration  of  this  coat  of  arms  and  claimed 
it  was  tl  arms  of  the    bracketts.      It  is  not  known  that  an 

illustration  ol  said  coat  was  possessed  by  any  Brackett  in  America 
prior  to  his  day;    in   iact  the  early   Maine  Bracketts,   so  far  as  has 

1  learned,  never  had  any  knowledge  or  traditions  of  a  coat  of  arms 
ol  the  family.  The  coat  ol  arms  referred  to,  is  the  coat  of  arms  of 
the  Brocketl  family.     There  is  some  difference  in  the  illustrations  pos- 

d  by  the   Brocketts  and  those  possessed  by  the  descendants  of 

James  Brackett,  in  the  particulars  of  the  position  of  the  stag,  and 

1  ;n  the  name  appearing  in  these  illustrations,  it  being  Brockett  or 

ketl  according  to  its  possessor.  It  is  thought  that  these  differ- 
mnted  for. 

Their  are  no  more  reasons  for  believing  that  the  name  Brackett 
is  a  variation  of  the  name  Brockett  than  there  is  for  believing  that 
the  name  Brackett  is  a  variation  of  any  other  name  ending  in  e-t-t  as 
Brecketl  or  Brickett.  There  is  no  cited  instance  of  a  person  by  the 
name  ol    Brackett  tracing  his  ancestry  in  the  direct  male  line  to  a 


INTRODUCTION  5 

Brockett,  nor  vice  versa.  With  the  person  the  name  is  always 
Brackett;  there  are  instances  of  confusion  in  books  and  other  publi- 
cations where  Brockett  is  made  to  appear  Brackett.  For  instance, 
in  the  publication  of  names  of  men  from  Connecticut  who  served  in 
the  war  of  the  revolution,  it  appears  that  ten  persons  by  the  name  of 
Brackett  were  in  the  service  of  that  colony  during  said  war.  The 
fact  is  that  not  a  person  by  the  name  of  Brackett  was  in  its  service; 
all  of  the  ten  referred  to  in  the  publication  were  Brocketts  and 
undoubtedly  so  called  themselves.  Several  other  instances  can  be 
cited  and  also  a  few  where  the  name  Brackett  appears  as  Brockett. 
All  this,  however,  proves  nothing  relative  to  origin  of  the  names. 

The  assumption  that  Brockett  and  Brackett  refer  to  the  same 
family  in  England  in  comparatively  recent  times,  has  been  pro- 
ductive of  references  to  men  by  the  name  of  Brockett  who  attained 
some  distinction  at  times  since  the  sixteenth  century,  to  prove  how 
ancient  the  family  is;  hence  we  read — 

"Among  those  who  held  a  place  in  Cambridge  College  as  one  of 
its  professors,  was  a  man  by  the  name  of  William  Brockett  (in  many 
instances  deliberately  changed  to  Brackett)  an  enlightened  instruc- 
tor and  a  Welshman." 

Also  is  instanced  a  reference  to  a  Brockett  Castle  as  Brackett 
Castle,  near  Strathaven,  Scotland.  The  following  settles  all  doubt 
as  to  its  correct  name  and  to  what  was  and  is  the  castle: 

"Rankin  Manse,  Strathaven,  Scotland," 
April  24,    1906. 
Herbert  I.  Brackett,  Esq., 

Washington,  U.  S.  A. 

Dear  Sir: —  I  was  much  interested  by  the  receipt  of  your  letter. 
Castle  Brockett  is  now  the  name  of  a  farm.  I  have  interviewed  the 
farmer  and  also  his  older  brother  who  were  both  brought  up  on  the 
farm  when  their  father  was  tenant  of  it.  The}-  remember  that  in 
their  young  clays,  that  is  about  forty  or  fifty  years  ago,  a  small  por- 
tion of  the  walls  of  a  ruined  tower  stood  at  a  corner  of  the  shedding  ; 
it  was  pulled  down  to  make  room  for  a  new  hay  shed.  It  seems  to 
have  been  one  of  the  mere  rude  square  towers  which  are  not  uncom- 
mon in  the  lowlands  of  Scotland  and  may  have  been  occupied  in 
ancient  days  by  some  retainer  of  the  Douglases  who  were  all  power- 
ful in  this  district  in  the  14th,  15th  and  16th  centuries.  But  there  is 
no  record  of  its  old  inhabitants   or  any  thing  connected  with  it. 

I  visited  the  proprietrix  of  the  farm  who  lives  not  far  off.  She 
inherited  it  and  a  neighboring  farm  from  her  father ;  her  maiden 
name  was  Rowatt,  and  her  family  had  possessed  the  land  for  nearly 
two  hundred  years.  Previous  to  that  it  was  held  by  a  family  called 
Allan,  and  before  them  by  a  family  called  Craig,  who  held  it  in  cove- 
nanting times,  that  is  in  the  latter  part  of  the  17th  century.  I  have 
not  been  able  to  trace  the  ownership  any  further  back. 

The  origin  of  the  name,  Castle  Brocket,  I  have  not  been  able  to 
ascertain.  The  name  Brocket  has  now  disappeared  from  this  par- 
ish. In  the  neighboring  parish  of  Lesmahagow  there  are  one  or  two 
people  who  bear  the  name,  but  the}-  cannot  trace  their  descent  fur- 
ther back  than  a  couple  of  generations.  In  that  parish  there  is  also 
a  farm  called  Brockets  Brae.     So  there  must   have   been    Brockets 


6  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

about  at  one  time,  though  I  have  not  been  able  to  find  any  mention 
of  the  name  in  the  parish  records  *  *  *   . 

With  good  wishes. 

Yours  sincerely, 

T.   M.   Dey." 

In  the  writer's  letter  to  Dr.  Dey,  to  which  the  foregoing  is  in 
reply,  nothing  is  contained  about  the  Brocketts.  It  is  clear  that  the 
name  Brackett  is  not  known  in  those  parts. 

The  writer  has  heard  from  different  sources  that  near  the  boun- 
dary between  Scotland  and  England  there  were  ancient  gravestones 
with  the  name  Brackett  inscribed  upon  them.  Captain  Horace  W. 
Brackett  wrote,  "it  was  in  a  grave-yard  in  North  Umberland 
county,  England,  at  the  mouth  of  the  Tyne  river  near  the  Scottish 
border  *  *  *   .     It  may  be  possible  that  the  spelling  was  an  'o'." 

In  the  chapter  on  the  life  of  Captain  Richard  Brackett,  there  is 
contained  such  data  pertaining  to  Bracketts  (not  to  Brocketts)  and 
tending  to  show  in  what  part  of  England  the  family  lived  and  what 
position  it  occupied  in  the  social  scale  one  hundred  years  prior  to 
the  settlement  of  America,  as  the  writer  has  been  able  to  collect. 
Here  it  will  be  said  that  the  writer  is  of  the  opinion  that  Anthony 
Brackett  came  to  America  from  the  vicinity  of  Plymouth,  England, 
though  he  has  nothing  more  on  which  to  base  it  than  that,  from  there 
a  considerable  portion  of  the  immigrants  came,  who  settled  in  Ports- 
mouth, N.  H.,  quite  all  of  whom  were  Episcopalians. 

The  Brackett  Family  Association  at  its  annual  meeting  in  1904, 
in  Portland,  voted  its  approval  of  the  coat  of  arms,  whose  illustration 
appears  on  the  cover  of  this  volume,  as  having  been  the  one  recog- 
nized and  claimed  by  the  family  in  ancient  times.  A  like  illustra- 
tion appears  in  the  work  of  Mr.  Jeffrey  Richardson,  published  about 
i860.  He  gives  no  account  as  to  its  origin,  the  significance  of  any 
of  the  designs  or  as  to  how  long  illustrations  of  the  coat  of  arms  have 
been  in  the  family  in  America;  nor  can  the  writer  give  any  account 
as  to  these  matters.  The  only  reference  made  to  it  by  Mr.  Richardson 
reads,  "from  the  coat  of  arms  it  is  supposed  that  he,  (Captain  Rich- 
ard,) belonged  to  an  agricultural  family."  Eemuel  Brackett,  the 
grandfather  of  Mr.  Richardson,  was  living  in  i860;  he  was  born  in 
1780.  It  is  ventured  that  if  he  knew  when  the  original  illustration 
of  the  coat  of  arms  was  brought  to  America,  or  other  particulars  of 
interest  concerning  it,  he  would  have  imparted  them  to  Mr.  Richard- 
son. But,  apparently,  these  matters  were  unknown  in  Lemuel 
Brackett's  da}';  so  it  is  inferred  that  illustrations  of  this  coat  of  arms 
were  in  possession  of  the  Braintree  Bracketts  from  an  early  date. 
Correspondence  with  the  descendants  of  Eemuel  Brackett  yielded 
little  in  the  way  of  accounting  for  the  advent  in  America  of  the  first 
illustration.     Miss  Anna  C.  Brackett,  wrote: 

"I  can  give  you  no  information  as  to  coat  of  arms.  I  know  that 
they  had  one  at  Quincy,  but  I  fancy  it  was  nonsense.  I  don't 
believe  we  ever  had  a  coat  of  arms." 

Illustrations  of  this  coat  of  arms  have  been  in  the  family  for 
many  years;  they  are  not  contained  in  any  work  on  heraldry  or 
armorial  bearings  to  which  the  writer  has  had  access.  It  is  not,  like 
the  other,  the  coat  of  arms  of  another  family.     As  it  does  not  appear 


INTRODUCTION  7 

in  any  work  on  heraldry,  it  is  highly  probable  that,  if  the  family 
centuries  ago  claimed  this  coat  of  arms,  its  right  to  it  was  never 
established  in  any  court  of  heraldry.  Our  purpose,  however,  will  be 
served  should  it  be  proven  that  the  family  claimed  it  four  or  five  or 
more  centuries  ago,  as  from  the  fact  would  be  disclosed  the  ancient 
seat  of  the  family.  Unless  it  served  this  or  some  equally  good  pur- 
poses, the  writer  would  not  concern  himself  whether  or  not  the  fam- 
ily ever  had  a  coat  of  arms  or  what  was  its  coat  of  arms  if  it  did 
have  one. 

The  name  Brackett  is  not  to-day  a  common  one  in  England;  it 
occurs  less  than  one-half  dozen  times  in  the  directory  of  London. 
One  name  there  appearing  is  William  Brackett,  the  head  of  the  firm 
of  Brackett  &  Sons,  auctioneers  and  estate  agents  of  London  and 
Tunbridge  Wells.  In  1906  occurred  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
commencement  of  his  business  in  Tunbridge  Wells.  He  was  born 
in  1832,  and  is  able  to  trace  his  line  of  descent  from  his  great- 
grandfather, born  about  1730.  He  kindly  answered  the  letter  sent 
him  and  made  mention  of  a  letter  he  had  received  in  1859  from  a 
Mr.  William  Brackett,  a  lawyer  living  in  Chicago.  He  appears  to 
have  an  interest  in  the  family  history.  With  his  letter  came  a  copy 
of  "The  Kent  and  Sussex  Courier,'"  of  its  issue  of  August  17,  1906, 
containing  an  article  of  one  and  one-half  columns,  on  Mr.  Brackett's 
long  and  successful  business  career.  The  following  is  an  item  found 
in  its  columns  of  "fashionable  and  personal"  news:  "Lord  Richard 
Nevill  has  left  Cowes  and  is  on  a  visit  to  Brockett  Hall,  Hatfield." 
The  name  "Brockett"  or  "Brocket"  is  frequently  met  with  in 
England. 

One  naturally  has  his  concepts  of  the  looks,  figure  and  other  traits 
of  a  Brackett.  A  limited  field  of  observation  tends  to  confirm  one  in 
his  opinion  in  these  particulars.  Heredity  conies  through  the  mother 
as  well  as  the  father.  In  truth,  Bracketts  are  distinguished  from  all 
other  people  by  name  only,  and,  in  fact,  we  differ  in  our  traits  both 
physical  and  mental,  quite  as  widely  as  did  our  parents,  and  also  as 
did  their  respective  fathers  and  mothers  differ  from  one  another. 
And  very  naturally  so.  Representatives  of  widely  separate  branches 
of  the  family  will  find  hardly  a  trait  common  in  one  another  to  prove 
a  mutual  ancestor,  and  will  disagree  as  to  what  are  the  family  traits 
of  person  and  character.  Family  resemblance  perpetuates  itself 
along  certain  lines  for  generations,  even  presenting  those  peculiar 
and  interesting  instances  of  atavism,  and  gradually  dwindles  in 
remoter  generations.  But  along  other  lines  in  which  the  same  family 
name  is  perpetuated,  the  looks  and  traits  of  a  female  ancestor  are 
most  prominent,  wThich,  having  continued  for  several  generations, 
are  apt  to  be  regarded  as  the  true  type  and  traits  of  the  family. 
Hence  we  have  the  cause  of  disagreement  as  to  the  type  and  traits 
of  the  immigrant.  If  we  could  find  any  marked  resemblance  in 
face,  figure,  temperament  and  other  traits  of  several  of  the  narne  who 
are  distantly  related,  we  could  perhaps  correctly  judge  what  were 
those  of  the  common  ancestor.  The  fact  is  that  we  present  all  sorts 
and  conditions  of  men  in  figure,  looks  and  all  characteristics  as  we 
do  in  business  and  in  commercial  standing,  a  few,  perhaps,  harking 
back  to  some  common  ancestor  of  theirs  of  no  remote  degree,  for  a 
resemblance  in  features,  and  differing  in  those  traits  and  all  other 
prominent  traits  from  their  other  namesakes. 


8  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

To  what  extent  the  idea  will  possess  a  person,  particular^'  one 
who  has  dwelt  a  life  time  in  a  locality,  which  for  generations  has 
been  the  home  of  a  family,  that  there  are  predominating  traits, 
mental  and  physical,  common  to  its  members,  is  shown  by  the  follow- 
ing interesting  letter  written  in  the  seventies  to  Walter  Folger 
Brackett  by  his  great  aunt,  Mrs.  Marston. 

"I  am  in  solemn  earnest  when  I  say  to  you  that  I  truly  feel  and 
believe  that  in  our  Brackett  ancestry  we  have  a  noble,  a  grand 
inheritance,  as  a  race.  They  were  men  of  the  sternest  stuff;  erect  in 
sc  >u  1 :  firm  on  the  basis  of  a  good  conscience,  regardless  of  public  opinion 
honest,  proverbially  so;  rough,  exteriorly,  with  no  great  refinement 
of  feeling;  not  keen  nor  shrewd  in  matters  of  intelligence  or  taste. 
But  they  had  in  themselves  and  have  given  to  posterity  a  firm  basis  of 
bone  and  sinew  of  character.  The  name  may  not  give  it,  for  the 
mixture  with  other  streams  may,  in  many  instances,  almost  obliterate 
it,  but  it  will  crop  out  again  with  less  and  less  force  for  several 
generations,  yet.  You.  yourself,  are  a  marked  Brackett,  and-I  feel  that 
I  am  flattering  you  when  I  say  it.  I  hope  you  believe  wrhat  I  say. 
In  the  record  *  '  *  Samuel  Brackett,  3d  (Samuel,  son  of  Samuel, 
son  of  Samuel,  son  of  Thomas,  son  of  Anthony,)  was  my  grand- 
father, your  father's  great-grandfather  *  *  *  .  His  son  Samuel 
*  was  the  man  who  built  this  stone  house  and  all  the  stone  walls 
around  us,  and  you  will  see  how  old  he  lived  to  be.  Notice  how 
they  all  cling  to  the  name  of  Samuel,  and  how  not  one  record  tells 
who  their  wives  were;  they  were  to  be  reckoned  Bracketts,  no  more. 
As  I  have  lain  here  in  bed  lately,  I  have  wished  that  all  these  people 
mentioned  in  this  record  could  stand  here  before  me  in  the  costumes 
of  their  times,  and  that  I  could  hear  their  voices.  I  have  seen  quite 
a  number  of  them  and  can  recall  many  peculiarities.  Ask  Linnie  to 
tell  you  about  the  life,  death  and  funeral  of  my  cousin  Nat,  known 
as  the  'Blue  Bird,'  the  oldest  son  of  Nathaniel  Brackett,  my  uncle  in 
Lyman  *  *  .  I  do  not  expect  to  do  much  in  this  world,  but  I 
hope  to  be  willing  and  able  to  work  on  the  other  side." 

The  Mr.  Brackett  to  whom  the  letter  was  addressed,  stated  that 
all  he  could  learn  of  "Nathaniel,  the  eccentric,"  was  that  he  always 
dressed  in  a  blue  surtout  coat  with  bows  and  a  rough  beaver  hat; 
wore  the  same  coat  for  twenty  years,  hence  the  name  "Blue  Bird." 
.Said  Mr.  Brackett  related  the  following: 

"There  was  a  Polly  Brackett  a  few  years  ago,  who  was  engaged 
to  be  married  but  for  some  reason  the  engagement  was  broken;  shr 
was  making  an  elegant  wedding  dress,  stopped  instantly,  stuck  tin 
needle  into  the  dress,  folded  and  put  it  away.  She  never  married 
I  am  told  the  dress  is  still  in  existence  with  the  needle  just  as  she 
left  it." 

The  plan  for  the  arrangement  of  names  of  persons  in  the  order 
and  generations  of  their  descent  from  the  immigrant  ancestors  may 
need  some  explanation.  The  chapters  are  devoted  to  accounts  of 
early  ancestors.  Their  descendants  are  grouped  into  twenty-one 
divisions  by  families  in  the  order  of  generations;  references  by  num- 
bers from  one  family  to  another  in  the  several  collateral  lines  are 
made.  A  reference  to  the  index  gives  one  the  page  on  which  a  name 
of  a  person  occurs  contained  in  an  account  of  him  or  of  an  ancestor 
of  his. 


INTRODUCTION  9 

A  progenitor's  descendants  as  they  appear  in  a  family  as 
arranged,  are  thus  indicated:  Children  by  cardinal,  grandchildren 
by  ordinal,  and  great-grandchildren  by  roman  numerals;  italic  let- 
ters are  employed  to  indicate  his  great-great-grandchildren  and  small 
letters  his  descendants  of  the  next  remote  degree.  The  maiden 
name  of  a  wife  is  given  in  full  followed  by  the  statement  whose 
daughter  she  was  when  known,  and  also  is  given  her  ancestry  as  far 
back  as  has  been  learned. 

The  scope  of  this  genealogy  is  intended  to  include  the  descend- 
ants of  Anthony  Brackett  of  Portsmouth,  N.  H.,  and  Richard 
Brackett  of  Braintree,  Mass.,  in  direct  male  lines,  and  in  allied 
families  to  the  third  generation;  this  has  not  been  perfected.  There 
are  many  descendants  whose  names  do  not  appear;  for  one  reason 
and  another  efforts  have  not  been  successful  nor  do  they  give  prom- 
ise of  sttccess  in  the  near  future  of  learning  the  ancestry  of  such 
descendants.  In  addition  to  genealogical  data  will  be  found  accounts 
of  the  lives  of  many  of  our  name.  If  the  work  meets  with  the  expec- 
tation of  the  readers  the  compiler  will  have  good  reason  to  be  satis- 
fied with  it. 

WASHINGTON,  D    C,  Sept.  25,   1906. 


CHAPTER   I. 


GEORGE    CLEEVE,    THE    DEPUTY    PRESIDENT 
OF   THE    PROVINCE  OF  LIGONIA. 

[Thomas  and  Anthony  Brackett,  sons  of  the  immigrant,  Anthony  of  Ports- 
mouth,  married  granddaughters  of  George  Cleeve.  He  was  born  at  an  earlier 
date  than  any  of  our  common  ancestors  of  whom  we  know;  it  was  through  him 
that  our  early  forefathers  in  America  acquired  title  to  those  large  estates  which 
they  possessed.  This  man,  George  Cleeve,  therefore,  is  entitled  to  prominent 
notice  in  our  genealogy.  However,  too  many  historians,  genealogists  and  biog- 
raphers have  gone  out  of  their  way  to  blacken  his  name,  to  permit  only  a 
passing  notice  in  this  work  of  his  life.  Some,  because  they  cared  but  little  to 
know  the  truth,  others,  to  whiten  the  characters  of  the  subjects  of  their  pens, 
have  written  ill  of  him.  His  defense  requires  but  little  condemning  of  his  oppo- 
nents. Of  his  virtues  there  is  written,  and  they  compare  so  favorably  with  those 
of  the  subjects  of  praise  of  persons  who  conceived  that  their  duty  in  praising 
was  to  condemn  George  Cleeve,  that  the  reader  can  but  wonder  that  it  was 
necessary  to  make  any  defense  at  all  for  him.  The  truth  required  no  defense; 
but  for  that  which  is  false  that  has  been  written  concerning  him,  no  defense 
would  be  offered.  —  The  Author.] 

One  of  the  two  earliest  permanent  settlers  upon  the  mainland  with- 
in the  present  limits  of  Portland,  Me.,  was  George  Cleeve  (often  writ- 
ten Cleeves).  He  came  from  Plymouth,  England,  first  established 
himself  at  the  mouth  of  the  Spurwink  river,  in  Cape  Elizabeth,  Me., 
as  early  as  1630,  and  was  associated  in  business  with  a  Mr.  Richard 
Tucker,  who,  it  appears,  preceded  Cleeve  as  a  settler  there.  The 
land  on  which  they  located  was  contained  in  a  grant  under  date  of 
December  1,  1631,  by  the  Plymouth,  or  Northern  Company,  to  Mr. 
Robert  Trelawney,  of  quite  all  of  Cape  Elizabeth,  and  a  Mr.  John 
Winter,  acting  as  his  agent,  in  the  year  1632,  ejected  them. 

Cleeve  set  up  title  to  two  thousand  acres  of  land,  including  the 
premises  at  the  mouth  of  the  Spurwink,  by  virtue  of  a  promise  for 
that  amount  of  land  by  Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges,  made  to  him  before 
his  departure  from  England,  as  a  consideration  for  his  coming  to 
.W\v  England  to  dwell.  Tucker  also  claimed  an  estate  in  the  land 
in  question  by  purchase  from  one,  Richard  Bradshaw,  and  had  been 
placed  in  possession  of  the  land  by  Captain  Walter  Neal.  The  lat- 
ter was  sent  to  New  England  by  Gorges  and  Mason  as  governor  of 
their  colony  at  Portsmouth,  N.  H.  It  was  also  Neal  in  said  capac- 
ity, to  whom  Winter  resorted  to  oust  Cleeve  and  Tucker  from  their 
improvements  at  the  mouth  of  the  Spurwink.  They  had  constructed 
a  house  there  and  had  prepared  for  cultivation  from  two  to  four  acres 
of  land  about  it. 

On  Richmond  island,  directly  opposite  and  near  to  the  mouth  of 
the  Spurwink,  Mr.  Winter  located.  As  the  agent  for  Trelawney  he 
superintended  the  several  industries  in  which  the  latter  engaged, 
lumbering,  fishing,  trading  with  the  Indians,  ship-building  and  other 
lines.  There  were  upwards  of  sixty  men  employed  at  the  place 
for   many   years.       Much   of    the    correspondence   between    Messrs. 


GEORGE     CLEEVE  11 

Trelawney  and  Winter  is  extant,  has  been  published  and  is  known 
as  "The  Trelawney  Papers."  Said  valuable  publication  is  one  of 
the  chief  sources  of  information  for  this  article. 

Under  date  of  June  18,  1634,  Winter  wrote  Trelawney: 

"At  the  maine  we  have  built  no  house,  but  our  men  lives  in  the 
house  that  the  ould  Cleves  built,  but  that  we  have  fitted  him  some- 
what better  and  we  have  built  a  house  for  our  pigs.  We  have  paled 
into  the  maine  a  pece  of  ground  for  to  set  corne  in,  about  four  or  five 
akers  as  near  as  we  can  judge,  of  pales  6  fote  high,  except  the  pales 
that  the  ould  Cleeve  did  sett  up  which  is  but  4  foote  &  l/z  ;  he  had 
paled  of  it  about  an  aker  and  %  before  we  came  their  &  now  it  is  all 
sett  with  corne  and  pumkins." 

Upon  being  ousted  from  their  place  of  settlement  on  the  Spur- 
wink,  Cleeve  and  Tucker  located  upon  what  was  afterwards  known 
as  the  Neck,  now  the  site  of  the  business  portion  of  the  present  city 
of  Portland,  Maine.  It  is  a  tongue  of  land  about  three  miles  long 
and  three-fourths  of  a  mile  wide;  it  lies  between  Casco  (now  Fore) 
river  which  is  much  like  an  arm  of  the  sea,  and  a  part  of  Casco  bay 
known  as  Back  cove;  there  is  a  gradual  sloping  of  land  from  slight 
elevations  at  its  base  and  point.  From  its  southern  side  along  Casco 
river,  at  its  central  portion,  the  rise  is  quite  gradual  to  the  top  of  the 
ridge  which  traversed  its  length;  on  the  northerly  side  of  the  ridge 
it  was  more  precipitate.  It  was  on  the  southerly  side  of  this  tongue 
of  land  at  a  point  nearly  two-thirds  the  way  to  its  end,  near  to  where 
flowed  a  runnet  of  water,  which  continued  to  flow  until  recent  years, 
near  to  the  present  corner  of  Hancock  and  Fore  streets,  where  stood 
the  house  of  the  right  worthy  and  valiant  George  Cleeve.  The 
Indian  name  for  the  laud  was  Mackigonne  —  a  bad  camp. 

Cleeve  stated  that  his  title  to  the  tract  on  the  Neck  which  he 
claimed,  was  by  virtue  of  a  royal  proclamation  of  King  James  giving 
to  every  subject  of  his  who  would  transport  himself  to  the  English 
colonies  in  America,  one  hundred  fifty  acres  of  land  and  the  same 
amount  in  addition  for  every  other  such  person  thus  transported  at 
his  own  expense. 

The  man  who  long  relied  for  pounds,  shillings,  pence  or  even 
for  acres  of  wilderness  in  America  upon  a  promise  of  the  goggle- 
eyed,  rickety  James,  Rex,  "of  blessed  memory,"  like  the  man  who 
built  upon  the  sand,  would  come  to  grief.  Cleeve  propped  a  title  to 
a  tract  on  the  Neck  with  the  promise  of  James,  until  there  opened  a 
prospect  for  acquiring  a  possibly  better  title  to  it  and  more  from 
another  source.  The  fact  is  that  the  royal  promise  of  James  for  one 
hundred  fifty  acres,  had  served  Cleeve  better  than  had  the  knightly 
promise  of  Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges  for  two  thousand  acres.  In  the 
case  of  the  latter  it  was  not  in  his  power  at  the  time  to  bestow  what  he 
had  promised,  and  because  of  this  want  of  power  it  probably  was  that 
Cleeve  did  not,  upon  being  ousted  from  the  tract  on  the  Spurwink, 
select  elsewhere  another  tract  of  two  thousand  acres  under  his  war- 
rant from  Sir  Ferdinando.  However  this  may  be,  the  knight  in  the 
spring  of  the  year  1635,  was  granted  the  territory  which  he  erected 
into  his  province  of  New  Somosetshire  which  included  the  territory 
of  the  present  state  of  Maine  along  the  coast,  from  its  western 
boundary  to  the  Kennebec  river.  Cleeve  was  in  a  position  to  ask 
for  and  Sir  Ferdinando  now  had  the  right  to  give  him,  a  deed  to  two 
thousand  or  more  acres  of  land. 


12  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Cleeve  and  Tucker  were  busy  men  during  those  years  beginning 
with  1632.  The  temporary  house  erected  by  the  voyager,  Christopher 
Leverett,  some  years  before  on  an  island  in  the  bay,  probabty  was 
their  shelter  for  the  time  being;  the  following  year  they  erected  the 
first  building  on  the  Neck  constructed  there  by  white  men.  The 
unbroken  forest  to  the  water's  edge  had  to  be  subdued,  so  much 
thereof  as  would  serve  their  purposes,  and  its  products  furnished 
them  with  material  for  houses  and  other  buildings  such  as  they 
needed  for  their  enterprises,  trading  with  the  Indians,  fishing,  and 
perhaps  manufacturing  lumber  and  pipe  staves.  Thus  the  two  men 
were  engaged  for  several  years.  With  the  year  1636  their  troubles 
commenced  which  required  the  presence  of  Cleeve  in  England  for  a 
time.  Prior  to  that  year  the  government  of  the  planters  had  been 
little  more  than  an  agreement  among  themselves  for  conserving  the 
peace.  But  in  the  year  1636,  the  sovereignty  of  his  province  was 
assumed  by  Sir  Ferdinaudo  and  he  set  up  a  government  for  the 
ordering  of  the  people.  A  court  was  instituted  for  the  trial  of  civil 
actions  and  other  matters.  Sir  Ferdinando  had  never  been  granted 
by  the  crown  the  sovereignty  of  the  province,  hence  the  government 
he  instituted  was  without  authorit}\  His  commissioners  were  large 
land  owners  of  the  province,  Episcopalians,  and  quite  all  enemies  of 
Cleeve.  They  appear  to  have  considered  themselves  vested  with 
genuine  authority  from  some  source  and  proceeded  to  worry  and 
harry  Cleeve.  He  on  his  part  never  recognized  the  government. 
The  man  who  is  charged  with  being  litigious,  never  brought  an 
action  in  the  court  nor  answered  a  writ  or  summons  it  issued  to  him. 
At  the  March  term  of  the  court  he  was  sued  on  account  and  judg- 
ment was  rendered  against  him;  at  its  September  term  execution 
issued  to  levy  on  his  property.  Nothing  came  thereof.  Subse- 
quently when  courts  were  legally  established  in  the  province,  the 
matter  in  difference  between  Cleeve  and  the  plaintiff,  was  left  to 
arbitrators  who  found  a  balance  due  the  plaintiff,  which  Cleeve 
undoubtedly  paid.  Also  at  the  March  term  Cleeve  was  fined  five 
pounds  for  "rash  speeches."  He,  perhaps,  had  unhesitatingly  pro- 
nounced the  gentlemen  composing  the  court  to  be  without  valid 
authority  to  their  pretension,  and  in  turn  they  had  deemed  his 
speech  to  be  "rash."  The  word,  brash,  would  serve  fully  as  well  for 
any  legal  significance  that  is  conveyed.  Right  crude  was  English 
law  in  those  days.  The  September  term  of  this  court  was  its  last; 
there  is  no  record  of  the  exercise  by  it  of  any  functions  at  a  later 
date.  Seemingly  it  could  not  survive  Cleeve's  contempt  for  it,  and, 
possibly,  that  fine  was  either  remitted  or  remained  unpaid. 

Trelawney,  too,  was  extending  his  possessions  towards  the  Neck 
in  that  eventful  year  of  1636.  Sir  Ferdinaudo  granted  him  land 
extending  along  the  coast  from  the  easterly  boundary  of  his  former 
grant,  to  the  river  Casco.  In  suits  with  Cleeve,  both  Trelawney  and 
the  Reverend  Robert  Jordan,  Winter's  son-in-law,  claimed  that  the 
river  Casco  was  the  river  Presumpscot,  which  latter  river  is  several 
miles  northeasterly  from  the  river  Casco,  with  the  Neck  between 
them. 

Notwithstanding  that  the  grant  of  land  to  Trelawney  by  Sir 
Ferdinando  lay  between  Trelawnej^'s  grant  from  the  Plymouth  Com- 
pany and  Casco  river,  which  ever  river  it  was,  the  contention  of  both 


GEORGE    CLEEVE  13 

Trelawney  and  Jordan  was,  that  the  Neck  was  included  in  the  grant 
from  the  Plymouth  Company  to  Trelawney.  In  May,  of  the  year 
1636,  Winter  returned  from  England,  and  with  him  came  the  news 
of  Trelawney's  purchase  from  Sir  Ferdinando.  It  stood  Cleeve  well 
in  hand  to  inquire  as  to  the  limits  of  Trelawney's  grants  unless  he 
wished  to  become  a  tenant  to  Trelawney.  ^At  the  time  Cleeve  was 
ousted  from  the  house  on  the  Spurwink  river,  Winter  remarked  to 
him  by  the  way  of  solace  for  the  loss  of  his  improvements,  —  and 
took  great  credit  to  himself  for  the  quantity  of  milk  of  human  kind- 
ness he  must  contain  in  so  remarking  —  that  he  could  become  a 
tenant  to  Trelawney  elsewhere;  thereby  meaning  that  Cleeve  could 
go  to  some  other  locality  in  Trelawney's  grant  and  settle.  Cleeve 
answered  that  he  would  be  "tenant  to  never  a  man  in  New  England," 
so  Winter  wrote:  which  reply  must  have  wounded  the  man  of  so 
much  kindness,  seeing  he  took  the  pains  to  record  Cleeve 's  exact 
words. 

There  were  other  matters  to  take  the  ould  Cleeve  across  the  sea. 
The  year  is  not  known  when  he  brought  his  wife  and  family  to 
America.  Prudent  man  that  he  was,  he  would  not  bring  his  wife 
and  only  child  to  a  wilderness  for  their  home  until  he  had  found  a 
suitable  place  to  dwell,  had  secured  an  estate  and  built  a  house.  He 
had  found  a  desirable  locality  —  none  better  along  the  entire  coast, 
and  had  taken  possession  of  a  tract  of  land  there;  the  house  he  had 
erected  would  serve  immediate  purposes.  Now  to  England,  for  the 
purchase  of  more  land,  for  wife  and  daughter  and  to  settle  accounts 
with  some  pretentious  gentlemen  who,  while  acting  as  judges,  had 
been  harrying  him. 

The  time  of  his  departure  was  in  August  or  later;  he  com- 
menced his  return  trip  in  March,  1637.  During  his  short  stay  in 
England  he  had  but  little  time  to  wile  away.  The  one  with  whom 
he  chiefly  had  business  to  do  was  Gorges.  Sir  Ferdinando  was 
hasty  to  bestow  his  confidence  on  and  withdraw  it  from,  another, 
was  apt  to  listen  too  attentively  to  the  last  petitioner  in  his 
presence,  and  to  forget  what  others  had  said  who  had  gone  before. 
That  Cleeve  deceived  him  there  is  no  reason  to  believe;  that  by 
his  address  and  discourse  he  fairly  captured  him,  is  not  doubted. 
The  tact  and  resources  of  the  man  can  be  fully  estimated,  when 
are  recalled  the  powerful  opposition  he  had  to  encounter  and  the 
difficulties  consequent  thereon  under  which  he  labored  to  secure 
a  hearing  of  his  cause  and  due  consideration  of  his  plans.  Winter 
was  constantly  nagging  at  him,  had  lately  been  in  England 
retailing  a  long  list  of  the  causes  of  complaints  he  had  suffered  at 
his  hands.  Trelawney  was  at  all  times  in  England  to  berate  and 
slander  him.  In  addition,  from  Gorges'  province  there  came  one 
continuous  growl  from  Richard  Vines  of  Saco,  Edmund  Godfrey  of 
York,  and  others.  The  source  of  this  concord  of  opposition  to 
Cleeve  on  the  part  of  the  principal  planters,  may  have  been  their 
unity  of  opinion  in  matters  pertaining  to  religion  and  politics;  their 
views  upon  these  subjects  did  not  accord  with  Cleeve's  but  harmon- 
ized with  the  views  of  Gorges  upon  them.  Said  persons  were  by  dint 
of  dinning,  by  letters  and  other  means,  seeking  to  further  their  own 
ends  at  the  expense  of  Cleeve's  standing  as  a  man  among  his  fellow 
planters.     What  influence  did  this  man  possess  which  caused  him  to 


14  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

be  dreaded  so  badly?  Was  it  that  he  possessed  the  confidence  01 
John  Winthrop,  then  governor  of  the  colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay, 
and  of  other  dignitaries  of  that  colony?  Was  it  that  he  was  pros- 
pering on  the  Neck?  It  is  hazarded  that  such  was  the  case;  that 
Cleeve  had,  upon  presenting  himself  to  Gorges,  letters  of  recommen- 
dation from  men  in  the  Bay  colony  who  commanded  the  knight's 
respect.  Once  in  his  presence  and  prejudice  aside,  the  way  was  clear 
for  the  masterful  George  Cleeve.  Yet  the  year  of  1636  was  one  of 
terrific  political  strife  and  turmoil  on  questions  which  the  knight  and 
gentlemen  radically  differed;  friction  there  was  too  between  warring 
factions,  which  did  not  escape  the  keen  calculator  as  to  how  matters 
would  adjust  themselves  in  the  event  that  friction  wore  away  king- 
craft until  what  remained  thereof  would  be  supplanted  by  another 
and  a  better  craft. 

However  Cleeve  did  accomplish  his  ends,  it  cannot  reasonably  be 
presumed  that  Sir  Ferdinando  had  occasion  to  rely  upon  the  repre- 
sentations of  Cleeve  further  than  they  were  corroborated  by  facts 
which  he,  himself,  had  knowledge  of.  It  is  noticeable  that  in  1637, 
when  he  withdrew  his  support  from  Cleeve,  that  he  charged  Cleeve 
only  with  having  been  misinformed  as  to  the  progress  of  some  meas- 
ure in  Parliament,  perhaps  a  bill  to  authorize  Sir  Ferdinando  to 
establish  a  government  in  his  province.  When  he  wrote  of  Cleeve  as 
"being  so  unworthy  "  he  referred  alone  to  his  conduct  in  the  strife 
between  him  and  the  other  planters,  as  to  the  merits  of  whose  contro- 
versy the  opinion  of  no  one  person  is  decisive. 

There  will  be  enumerated  the  things  which  the  ould  Cleeve  did 
do,  of  which  we  know,  however  he  may  have  succeeded  in  doing 
them.  From  Sir  Ferdinando  for  a  consideration  of  one  hundred 
pounds,  he  secured  a  deed  of  land  along  the  coast  from  the  river 
Casco  to  the  river  Presumpscot,  including  the  Neck;  well  and  good! 
With  Sir  William  Alexander  he  entered  into  articles  of  agreement 
for  the  planting  of  Long  island  in  Casco  bay.  He  also  was  granted 
a  protection  under  the  privy  seal  for  exploring  lake  Champlain  and  a 
monopoly  of  trade  in  beaver  about  the  lake.  Quite  a  man  of  busi- 
ness was  this  George  Cleeve!  As  has  been,  stated,  there  was  no 
legally  constituted  government  in  the  province  of  New  Somesetshire. 
A  plan  was  devised  to  receive  the  royal  sanction,  according  to  whose 
terms  commissioners  were  to  be  named,  among  whom  was  Cleeve,  for 
the  governing  of  the  province. 

Cleeve  had  issued  out  of  the  court  of  Star  Chamber,  writs  to 
Winter,  Thomas  Purchas,  Richard  Vines  and  Edmund  Godfrey,  to 
answer  to  his  petitions  presented  against  them.  The  association  of 
Purchas  with  Vines  and  Godfrey,  warrants  a  surmise  that  the  act 
upon  the  part  of  each  of  the  three  of  which  Cleeve  complained  was, 
respectively,  his  pretense  of  authority  as  a  judge  to  distress  Cleeve 
by  his  writ.  Purchas  was  one  of  the  judges  appointed  by  Sir 
Ferdinando  in  1636. 

The  procurement  of  these  writs  was  not  the  only  occasion  that 
Cleeve  had  to  appear  before  that  much  dreaded  court.  He  attended, 
pursuant  to  its  command,  and  gave  his  testimony  in  the  presence  of 
the  king  to  the  integrity  and  loyalty  of  John  Winthrop,  to  such  pur- 
pose, wrote  the  bigot,  Cotton  Mather,  that  "the  king  expressed 
himself  most  highly  pleased  therewithal,  only  sorry  that  so  worthy  a 


GEORGE     CLEEVE  15 

'person  should  be  no  better  accommodated  than  with  the  hardships  of 
America." 

The  contract  of  pecuniary  benefit  to  Cleeve  which  he  made  while 
in  England,  was  the  purchase  of  the  property  mentioned,  by  far  the 
most  valuable  estate  of  any  in  the  province.  It  is  not  known  that 
he  took  any  steps  in  furtherance  of  the  enterprises  of  Sir  William 
Alexander  in  the  fur  trade.  Though  not  resulting  in  pecuniary  ben- 
efit, the  assistance  he  had  rendered  his  friend,  John  Winthrop,  and  the 
Bay  colony  did  not  go  unrewarded.  Much  did  he,  himself,  stand 
in  need  of  the  aid  of  friends  during  the  year  1637,  and  the  following 
years.  The  news  of  his  doings  while  in  England  raised  a  storm  of 
protest,  and  from  every  town  in  the  province  went  forth  an  outcry 
against  Cleeve  which  was  carried  to  the  ear  of  the  proprietor.  The 
Episcopalians  living  in  the  province  were  so  maddened  at  the  pros- 
pect of  being  ruled  by  a  commission  of  canting  Independents  that 
it  alone  was  a  test  of  endurance.  Trelawney  took  the  lead  and  being 
in  the  presence  of  the  good  natured  knight,  won  his  case.  He  went 
so  far  as  to  accuse  Cleeve  of  having  shot  his  hogs.  Winter  had  writ- 
ten him  that  the  savages  or  the  wolves  had  killed  some  of  the  swine; 
there  was  nothing  more  on  which  to  base  the  accusation.  Winter 
was  far  too  discreet  to  charge  Cleeve  with  having  committed  an 
offense,  without  proof.  Trelawney  was  on  the  other  side  of  the 
ocean  and  could  safely  risk  the  utterance  of  a  slander  or  two  to  carry 
his  purpose.  It  was  soon  after  Cleeve's  departure  for  New  England, 
about  the  first  of  April,  1637,  that  Trelawney.  in  reply  to  a  letter 
which  he  had  received  from  Sir  Ferdinando,  wrote  him  anything  but 
complimentary  of  Cleeve;  he  reviewed  how  tenderly  he  had  been 
when  ousting  Cleeve  from  the  house  at  the  mouth  of  the  Spurwink, 
who  had  willfully  "sate  down  in  another  place  and  that  in  the 
middle  of  the  best  of  my  patent;"  then  continues  with  that  Cleeve 
had  killed  his  hogs,  disturbed  his  plantation  and  had  stirred  up  the 
Indians  against  him  to  gain  their  trade.  That  virus-generating  loss 
of  trade  with  the  Indians  so  blinded  the  mayor  of  Plymouth  that  he 
could  not  correctly  read  Winter's  letters;  that,  or  other  cause  so 
blinded  him,  or  else  he  told  a  whopper.  The  efforts  of  Trelawney  to 
disparage  Cleeve  in  the  estimation  of  Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges,  were  to 
subserve  his  purposes  and  interests.  Trelawney  occupied  a  position 
in  the  business  world  which  enabled  his  unsupported  word  to  carry 
great  weight.  He  was  a  member  of  Parliament,  the  mayor  of  Ply- 
mouth, a  merchant  of  wealth  and  a  supporter  of  King  Charles.  The 
times  were  fruitful  of  events  which  would  operate  to  draw  closely 
together  kindred  spirits  in  support  or  defense  of  a  common  cause. 
Hence,  it  is  not  surprising  that  Trelawney  was  successful  in  his 
endeavors  to  supplant  the  favorable  opinion  which  Sir  Ferdinando 
had  of  Cleeve. 

In  July,  1637,  Cleeve  went  to  Boston  and  unfolded  to  Winthrop 
the  plan  of  government  which  Sir  Ferdinando  had  approved  for  his 
province.  It  provided  for  the  supervision  of  civil  affairs  by  commis- 
sioners named  by  him  of  whom  Cleeve  was  one,  Winthrop  wTas 
another,  and  of  the  several  others,  nearly  all  were  dignitaries  of  the 
colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  and  quite  all  of  them  Independents  in 
religion.  One  in  particular  was  Sir  Harry  Vane,  the  identical  Sir 
Harry  from  whom  Cromwell  asked  the  Lord  to  deliver  him.     Gover- 


1 6  BR AC  K  BTT    G ENEALOGY 

nor  Winthrop  had  no  inclination  to  burden  himself  with  the  affairs 
oi  roystering  strong-headed  Episcopalians,  the  most  of  whom  he  well 
knew  personally.  He  would  not  accept  the  commission.  Under  the 
circumstances  Cleeve  could  have  had  but  little  inclination  to  accept 
an  appointment,  and  the  others  named  refused  their  consent  to  serve. 
So  the  establishment  of  a  provincial  government  was  again  postponed. 
In  fact,  in  [637,  Sir  Ferdinando  was  not  authorized  to  establish  such 
government. 

The  good  opinion  which  Sir  Ferdinando  entertained  of  Cleeve, 
was  oi  short  duration;  Trelawney  soon  undermined  it.  After  he  had 
once  worked  the  change  in  the  knight's  mind  respecting  Cleeve,  it 
was  confirmed  and  fortified  by  the  planters  in  the  province,  writing  to 
him  their  complaints  of  and  objections  against  Cleeve.  In  a  letter 
written  in  August,  1637,  to  Winthrop,  Vane  and  others  named  with 
Cleeve  to  act  as  commissioners  for  governing  the  province,  Sir  Ferdi- 
nando begs  their  pardon  for  having  associated  Cleeve  with  them  in 
said  capacity,  he  "being  soe  unworthy."  He  mentions  as  the  source 
of  information  of  this  unworthiness,  several  letters  written  by  Vines 
and  others  whereby  he  became  informed  how*  Cleeve  had  misrepre- 
sented their  conduct  towards  him.  It  is  quite  apparent  that  the  per- 
son to  whom  the  knight  last  listened,  was  the  one  in  whose  favor  he 
decided  to  act.  As  no  one  accepted  the  appointment  of  commissioner 
made  by  him,  and  he  was  without  power  to  appoint  commissioners, 
Sir  Ferdinando  could  well  have  waited  to  learn  whether  or  not  the 
gentlemen  addressed  were  in  any  way  huffed  by  having  been  associ- 
ated with  Cleeve  in  the  capacity  mentioned.  In  the  letter,  Sir 
Ferdinando  authorized  those  to  whom  it  was  addressed  to  investigate 
Cleeve's  conduct  towards  the  other  planters.  Trelawney  had  done 
his  work  well  indeed!  The  result  of  this  direction  for  an  investiga- 
tion, if  anything,  was  not  detrimental  to  Cleeve.  He  continued  to 
remain  on  intimate  terms  with  Winthrop,  which  is  evidence  that 
nothing  developed  to  hurt  him  in  that  good  man's  estimation.  It  is 
quite  probable  that  no  investigation  was  entered  upon  in  the  matter. 
Cleeve  did  not  screen  from  publicity  acts  of  his  of  interest  to  the  peo- 
ple. He  never  had  anything  to  fear  from  the  truth  becoming  known 
what  he  said  or  did.  A  contest  with  him  ever  meant  legal  pro- 
or  arbitration.  Nothing  served  his  purposes  better  than  to 
bring  a  matter  in  dispute  to  an  issue.  He  certainly  would  have 
approval  of  an  investigation  of  his  acts  by  a  committee  composed  of 
the  parties  named,  and  would  have  enjoyed  bouts  with  his  accusers 
before  them. 

The  extant  records  fail  to  disclose  the  cause  of  the  enmity  and 
opposition  to  Cleeve  on  the  part  of  the  several  large  landowners  in 
Maine.  Certain  it  is  that  it  was  not  because  of  any  personal  rela- 
tions or  from  association  as  neighbors,  for  his  opponents  dwelt  all 
along  the  coast;    Godfrey  at  York;    Vines  at  Saco;    Cammack  and 

lyn  at  black  Point:  Winter  and  Jordan  at  the  mouth  of  the  Spur- 
wink;  the  two  latter  wen.-  the  nearest  to  Cleeve  and  the}- were  ten 
miles  from  him.  Their  opposition  against  him  perhaps  grew  out  of 
their  differing  from  him  in  religion  and  politics,  and  through  their 
prejudice  in  these  matters  were  easily  martialed  by  Winter,  as 
Trelawney 's  agent,  to  serve  the  latter's  ends.  Grave  indeed  must 
have  been  the  charges  against  them  and  strong  the  proof  to  sustain 


GEORGE    CLEEVE  17 

the  charges,  when  Sir  Ferdinando  became  so  far  convinced  as  to 
their  truth  as  to  act  in  the  premises  and  proceed  to  organize  a  new 
government  composed  of  the  canting  Independents  of  the  Bay 
colony  and  George  Cleeve  as  commissioners,  and  exclude  from 
having  any  share,  quite  all  of  the  Episcopalians  of  his  own  prov- 
ince. It  will  be  remembered  that  this  was  done  but  shortly  after 
his  commissioners,  under  the  recently  defunct  government",  had  fined 
Cleeve  for  making  "rash  speeches."  Clearly  there  was  political 
contention  of  a  serious  nature  among  the  planters,  Cleeve  standing 
single-handed  against  the  others  banded  together  by  religious  and 
political  ties.  Yet  this  lone  Independent  goes  to  England  and,  in  the 
face  of  the  united  efforts  of  the  Episcopalian  lights  of  the  province, 
procures  from  their  Episcopalian  proprietor,  so  far  as  he  is  able  to 
give,  a  commission  for  a  government  in  which  he  is  named  a  commis- 
sioner and  they  are  ignored.  Hence,  the  growl  in  unison  from  every 
town  in  the  province. 

Against  the  united  protest  and  charges  of  the  planters  no  defense 
was  allowed  Cleeve  by  Sir  Ferdinando.  The  good  knight  was  prone 
to  listen  to  Trelawney,  the  loyalist  M.  P.,  as  againstCleeve,  the  round- 
head. Little  is  known  of  Cleeve  during  the  year  1638.  At  all  times 
he  was  actively  engaged  in  his  different  business  enterprises,  was 
alert  to  his  interests  and  thoroughly  conversant  with  the  trend 
of  political  affairs.  The  loss  he  had  sustained  in  the  friendship  of 
the  proprietor  not  only  grieved  him  but  also  made  uncertain  what 
his  future  course  would  be.  The  loss  of  favor  meant  the  loss  of 
patronage. 

In  1639,  the  king  conferred  upon  Sir  Ferdinando  the  right  to 
establish  a  government  in  his  province;  he  was  given  quite  dicta- 
torial powers  in  the  matter.  He  proceeded  to  set  in  operation  his 
plan  of  government  and  to  appoint  the  officers  whose  duties  were 
therein  set  forth.  The  name  of  the  province  was  changed  to  Maine. 
Cleeve  was  not  recognized,  was  not  appointed  to  any  office.  The 
legislative  and  judicial  powers  were  conferred  upon  commissioners  of 
whom  there  were  several.  The  establishment  of  a  legal  tribunal  in 
the  province  was  one  thing  which  Cleeve  had  much  desired  for  many 
years.  The  commissioners  held  their  first  term  of  court  in  March, 
1640.  Cleeve  promptly  commenced  actions  against  Winter  to  recov- 
er the  value  of  the  improvements  he  and  Tucker  had  made  at  the 
mouth  of  the  Spurwink,  and  for  disturbing  his  possessions  on  the 
Neck;  that  is  for  claiming  that  the  Neck  was  within  Trelawnev's 
grant.  In  each  action  judgment  was  rendered  at  the  September 
term  of  the  court,  in  favor  of  Cleeve.  The  damages  in  the  first  men- 
tioned suit  were  assessed  at  eighty  pounds.  Though  a  majority  of 
the  commissioners  were  unfriendly  to  Cleeve  the  chief  commissioner 
or  deputy  governor,  Thomas  Gorges,  a  kinsman  of  Sir  Ferdinando, 
was  a  man  of  probity  and  learned  in  the  law  for  his  day.  He  had 
been  selected  by  the  proprietor  to  install  the  new  government. 
While  he  remained  in  the  province  and  was  permitted  to  decide  suits 
at  law  in  accordance  with  the  facts  and  legal  principles,  the  large 
interests  of  Cleeve  were  secured  to  him.  That  he  and  the  other 
commissioners  thought  well  of  Cleeve  as  a  citizen,  had  confidence  in 
his  principles  and  entertained  a  high  estimate  of  his  capabilities,  are 
shown  by  the  fact  that  although  he  was  one  of  the  chief  litigants 
before  the  court,  he  was  appointed  foreman  of  the  grand  jury. 


18  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

The  ould  Cleeve  did  not  let  slip  any  opportunity  to  collect  his 
judgment  against  Winter  who  strenuously  endeavored  to  avoid  mak- 
ing payment.  With  thirty  men  the  marshal  of  the  province  strove  to 
make  a  seizure  of  property  at  the  mouth  of  the  Spurwink  and  on 
Richmond  island.  However,  the  attempt  was  without  success.  Win- 
ter's men  were  too  strong  for  the  marshal's  force.  Exciting  time 
that  must  'have  been  !  Winter  was  harassed  in  various  other  ways, 
so  he  wrote  Trelawney.  Also,  Winter  wrote  that  if  the  damages 
were  paid  to  Cleeve,  "heare  ar  divers  which  ar  Cleeve's  creditors 
that  gape  for  this  money  &  I  know  not  how  it  will  be  gotten  back 
again  beinge  he  is  so  much  in  debt." 

A  ludicrous  figure  a  man  cuts,  when,  while  hiding  from  an  officer 
of  the  law  to  evade  the  collection  of  a  debt  by  recovery  upon  judg- 
ment, he  worries  about  the  debts  which  his  judgment  creditor  owes. 
Under  the  conditions,  Winter  could  well  consider  the  payment  of 
debts  which  he  himself  owed.  There  was  no  person  who,  as  creditor, 
was  pressing  Cleeve  at  the  time,  or  at  any  other  time,  on  accounts 
which  he  did  not  dispute  as  to  his  liability  for  the  amount  claimed. 
There  has  been  noted  the  one  suit  that  was  ever  brought  against  him 
on  account,  where  he  did  not  have  a  good  offset.  Winter's  attorney, 
Edward  Godfrey,  went  to  England  to  appear  in  the  suits  against 
himself,  Purchas  and  Vines,  brought  by  Cleeve  in  the  Star  Chamber 
court  and,  in  the  suit  brought  against  him,  secured  a  judgment 
against  Cleeve  for  twenty  pounds  costs.  The  record  of  the  court  of 
the  province  shows  that  at  its  September  term  in  the  year  1640,  there 
was  considered  the  question  whether  this  judgment  could  be  col- 
lected by  any  proceedings  based  thereon  in  said  court.  Cleeve 
contended  that  there  was  no  power  to  make  levy  in  New  England  on 
a  judgment  of  the  Star  Chamber  court;  that  he  would  answer  from 
whence  the  writ  was  issued.  Vines,  the  future  deputy  governor, 
much  concerned  himself  about  those  twenty  pounds  and  wrote 
Winthrop  to  know  whether  collection  could  be  made  by  levy  under 
execution  issuing  out  of  the  local  court.  More  yet  a  while  about 
those  twenty  pounds.  If  there  were  other  creditors  pressing  Cleeve 
the  records  do  not  show  it. 

Winter,  under  date  of  October  7,  1640,  wrote  Trelawney  without 
mincing  matters,  that  the  marshal  in  attempts  to  make  levy  under 
the  execution,  was  prevented  from  so  doing  by  force;  "But  our  men 
forced  them  away,"  is  the  language  then  employed.  Again  under 
date  of  October  19,  less  than  two  weeks  later,  he  wrote  in  an  entirely 
different  strain  ;  that  while  going  in  a  boat  to  a  ship  in  Casco  bay  to 
deliver  letters  to  be  carried  to  England,  he  was  arrested  on  a  war- 
rant, issued  by  the  commissioners,  for  having  resisted  by  force  the 
attempts  by  the  marshal  to  make  levy  under  the  execution;  that  no 
force  was  used  to  prevent  the  levy  —  the  men  doing  nothing  more 
than  putting  up  a  show  of  fight  and  bluffing.  In  the  first  letter, 
Winter  wrote  the  facts  with  a  view  to  the  approval  of  his  conduct  by 
Trelawney.  When  he  wrote  the  second  letter,  he  was  conscious 
under  the  grip  of  the  law  what  was  the  legal  purport  of  the  facts  and, 
therefore,  denied  them.  It  was  said  of  Winter  that  he  was  a  discreet 
man;  such  discretion  as  he  showed  on  this  occasion  was  at  the 
expense  of  his  compunction  in  misrepresenting  the  truth,  which  was 
small  indeed. 


GEORGE    CLEEVE  19 

In,  the  same  letter  Winter  wrote  that  when  he  was  arrested 
in  Casco  ba3r,  in  order  to  secure  his  release,  he  was  compelled  to  give 
bond  for  his  appearance  in  court;  that  he  dare  not  meet  the  marshal, 
any  of  his  deputies  or  any  of  the  constables,  as  all  had  some  writ  to 
harry  him  with,  so  persistent  was  the  ould  Cleeve.  That  Winter 
had  reason  to  be  on  the  lookout  for  officers  of  the  law  is  certain;  in 
February,  1641,  he  was  compelled  to  go  to  Boston  for  carpenters  and 
on  his  return  trip  was  forced  to  put  into  the  harbor  at  York  where 
resided  Thomas  Gorges,  the  chief  commissioner.  He  was  arrested, 
brought  before  the  chief  commissioner,  and,  as  he  wrote  Trelawney, 
"bound  in  a  band"  of  one  hundred  pounds  with  a  surety,  to  appear 
at  the  next  general  term  of  the  court  at  Saco.  It  appears  that  it 
took  two  "bands"  to  hold  Winter. 

When  the  court  did  meet  at  Saco,  the  chief  commissioner  was 
very  wroth  on  Winter  for  his  temerity  in  defying  the  officers  with  a 
show  of  force,  and  threatened  to  make  short  work  with  the  plantation 
at  the  mouth  of  the  Spunvink,  in  case  of  more  opposition  of  the  kind. 
The  costs  of  the  marshal  were  required  forthwith  in  the  sum  of  thirty 
pounds  and  were  furnished  to  the  value  in  beaver  skins.  Truly  the 
ould  Cleeve  was  making  a  very  good  use  of  the  newly  established 
government,  was  making  Trelawney's  superintendent  feel  the  strong 
arm  of  the  law. 

While  the  suits  brought  by  Cleeve  at  most  would  result  as  to 
Winter  only  in  annoying  him,  the  outcome  of  the  one  for  disturbing 
his  possessions  on  the  Neck,  if  the  judgment  of  the  court  was  per- 
mitted to  stand,  was  fatal  to  the  pretension  of  Trelawney  that  the 
Neck  was  included  in  his  patent.  It  will  be  seen  that  Trelawney 
did  not  propose  to  abide  by  the  decision  of  the  tribunal  established 
by  Sir  Ferdinando  in  his  province;  that  the  latter  allowed  himself  to 
be  influenced  by  the  representations  of  Trelawney,  M.  P.;  and  that, 
kinglike,  by  the  might  of  his  will  alone,  regardless  of  the  merits  of 
the  controversy,  he  would  cause  to  be  rendered  such  judgment 
against  Cleeve  as  would  please  his  powerful  opponent.  Such  was 
the  justice  which  Cleeve  would  receive  if  the  genius  of  the  man  did 
not  rise  to  the  emergency.  It  will  be  of  interest  to  the  descendants 
of  Cleeve  to  know  the  truth  concerning  the  matter  wherein  he  has 
been  charged  with  treachery  to  his  benefactor;  also  in  justice  to  the 
memory  of  Portland's  first  settler  the  truth  should  be  written,  for 
what  is  false  has  been  published  for  more  than  a  century. 

There  was  no  right  of  appeal  to  higher  authority  from  a  decision 
of  the  commissioners  of  the  province.  The  judgment  which  they 
rendered  in  favor  of  Cleeve,  in  the  case  involving  the  title  to  land  on 
the  Neck,  was  final.  However,  as  in  England,  proceedings  for  the 
settlement  of  title  to  land  admitted  an  appeal  from  a  trial  court  to 
one  of  greater  jurisdiction,  in  instances  to  the  House  of  Lords,  the 
proposition  was  broached  in  1641  at  the  June  term  of  the  court  held 
at  Saco,  that  the  matters  in  dispute  between  the  litigants  be  left  to  a 
board  of  arbitration  of  five  members.  Seemingly,  the  purpose  was 
for  the  board  to  serve  as  a  tribunal  to  review  the  proceedings,  in  the 
manner  of  an  appellate  court.  Bonds  were  to  be  given  to  abide  by 
its  decision.  The  proposition  was  agreed  to.  When  a  man  has  won 
his  cause;  when  what  he  claims  has  been  established  to  be  his  by 
law,  is  in  his  possession;  and,  of  his  own  volition,  he  submits  his  title 


20  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

to  be  passed  upon  anew  and  binds  himself  to  abide  the  result,  he 
stakes  everything  upon  the  justice  of  his  cause.  His  opponent  risks 
nothing.  Such  respectively  were  the  chances  of  Messrs.  Cleeve  and 
Trelawney  before  the  arbitrators.  The  board  decided  in  favor  of 
Cleeve  on  every  point  with  the  single  exception  of  the  amount  of 
damages  which  was  reduced  from  eighty  to  sixty  pounds. 

Not  for  one  minute  was  there  an  intention  on  the  part  of 
Trelawney  to  abide  by  the  arbitration.  Shortly  after  the  adjourn- 
ment of  the  court,  arrived  letters  under  date  of  June  29,  1641,  from 
Trelawney  to  Winter  and  also  letters  from  Sir  Ferdinando  to  the 
commissioners.  A  copy  of  one  of  the  latter  was  enclosed  in  Trelaw- 
ney's.  To  enable  Winter  to  fully  understand  its  contents,  Trelawnej^ 
wrote  "he  hath  ordered  that  they  (the  commissioners)  take  more 
care  for  the  future,  and  in  another  speaks  of  his  owne  knowledge  of 
Casco  river;"  then  Trelawney  adds,  "I  hope  they  (the  commis- 
sioners) will  leave  you  and  all  my  tenantes  in  peace  and  eject  Cleaves 
011  vour  new  tryall  from  his  dewellinge."  This  time  they  would  be 
prepared  for  trial;  witnesses  would  be  brought  from  England;  the 
"salvages"  would  be  seen  and  from  them  would  be  learned  which 
stream  they  called  Casco  river.  Winter  was  cautioned  to  have  a  care 
lest  Cleeve  should  corrupt  the  savages;  thus  wrote  honest  Trelawney 
of  the  Long  Parliament. 

In  May,  1642,  Winter  wrote  Trelawney  that  Thomas  Gorges,  the 
chief  commissioner,  refused  to  reopen  the  case  until  he  heard  fur- 
ther from  Sir  Ferdinando.  That  the  worthier  Gorges  did  hear  from 
Sir  Ferdinando,  is  evident;  for,  under  date  of  July  19,  1642,  from  Bos- 
ton Winter  wrote  Trelawney,  "Mr.  George  &  the  rest  of  the  Justices 
of  our  province  have  promised  to  take  a  review  of  Casko  about  10 
daies  hence.     I  do  purpose,  God  willinge,  to  attend  them." 

The  plan  of  Trelawney  and  Sir  Ferdinando  was  to  nullify  the 
judgment  of  the  commissioners;  the  act  would  be  a  revolutionary  one 
in  effect,  though  the  act  of  the  government  itself,  and  thus  was  an  act 
of  tyranny.  The  chief  commissioner  would  not  proceed  until  fully 
advised  and  had  received  positive  orders  direct  from  Sir  Ferdinando 
to  play  the  part  of  highwayman.  There  was  but  one  way  to  foil 
them,  viz.,  to  overturn  the  government  itself  —  a  considerable  task 
for  one  man  to  do.  But  Cleeve  did  not  stop  with  half  measures.  In 
neither  old  England  nor  New  England' was  there  a  man  who  better 
than  he  could  judge  the  political  situation,  or  better  than  he  could 
predict  what  was  to  follow  events  as  they  successively  happened. 
Right  well,  too,  did  he  know  the  steps  about  to  be  taken  by  his 
opponents.  It  was  time  for  him  to  act.  The  letter  which  Winter 
wrote  to  Trelawney  under  date  of  July  19,  1642,  closed  with  the 
information  that  "Cleeves  is  com  for  England." 

The  ship  on  which  he  sailed  was  the  "Eleanor"  of  London,  Mr. 
Jugle,  master,  was  freighted  with  tobacco  and  had  been  blown  into 
Boston  harbor  after  having  been  fourteen  da3^s  at  sea.  She  had  lost 
her  masts  and  "stopt  heare  in  Massachusetts  bay  to  new  mast," 
Winter  wrote.  She  was  in  the  harbor  from  May  9  to  June  4,  1642, 
which  latter  date  was  that  of  the  departure  of  Cleeve  for  England. 
The  "Eleanor"  sailed  the  better  because  of  her  new  masts,  and 
reached  London  town  in  safety.  The  ould  Cleeve,  then  quite  three 
score  and  ten  years  of  age,  was  in  a  country  whose  main  business 


GEORGE     CLEEVE  21 

was  overturning  governments.  All  of  its  people  were  trying  their 
hands  thereat.  There  were  tumultuous  and  troublesome  times  in 
that  year  of  1642,  and  worse  for  somebody  were  to  follow.  The  fair- 
minded,  honorable,  energetic  George  Cleeve,  gentleman,  of  Casco 
Bay  in  Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges'  province  of  Maine,  who  had  always 
abided  his  trust  in  others  doing  justice  between  man  and  man,  had 
hit  upon  another  course  to  defend  his  possessions,  one  not  so  different 
from  that  which  his  honorable  opponents  had  resorted  to.  In  Lon- 
don the  gentleman  was  with  several  ideas  of  value,  and  well  able  to 
cope  with  Trelawney  of  the  Long  Parliament  and  with  all  comers 
who  may  have  designs  upon  his  thousands  of  fair  acres  across  the 
wide  Atlantic.  Well  does  it  stand  the  gentlemen  of  the  province  to 
write  what  they  may  know  as  to  his  plans;  for  Winter  to  advise 
Trelawney  of  his  departure,  for  Godfrey  to  call  him  a  "turbulent 
fellow,"  and  for  the  Reverend  Robert  Jordan  to  caution  Trelawney, 
that  he  was  sure  "Cleaves  is  wel  nigh  able  to  deceave  the  wisest 
brain." 

There  was  no  need  to  employ  deception.  That  Cleeve  would 
defend  his  rights  as  rigidly  as  he  had  daringly  jeopardized  his 
title  to  the  estates  granted  him,  when  the  justice  of  his  cause  was  his 
guarantee  for  success,  he  will  surely  do,  howsoever  great  is  the  out- 
cry against  him. 

What  was  sometimes  known  as  the  Plough  patent,  which  was 
granted  as  early  as  1630,  by  the  Plymouth  Company  to  John  Dye  and 
others,  contained  a  tract  forty  miles  square  extending  along  the  coast 
of  Maine  from  Cape  Porpoise  to  the  Kennebec  river,  and  included 
vSaco  on  its  western  and  Casco  on  its  eastern  boundaries.  It  ante- 
dated by  several  years  the  patent  granted  by  the  Plymouth  Company 
to  Sir  Ferdinando  of  the  saint'  and  other  tracts  which  he  erected  into 
the  province  of  Maine.  It  was  called  the  Plough  patent  for  the 
probable  reason  that  the  emigrants  sent  by  the  patentees  to  settle 
upon  the  land,  came  in  the  ship  "Plough."  Its  proper  appellation 
was  the  Province  OF  L,lGONlA.  Cleeve  was  in  the  province  when 
the  emigrants  arrived  in  1630-1,  who,  however,  did  not  long  remain. 
He  was,  therefore,  acquainted  with  the  grant  of  the  province  of 
Ligonia  and  of  its  legal  status  and  perfection,  and  knew  its  value  in 
competent  hands.  And  now  in  the  year  1642,  with  full  knowledge 
of  the  situation,  the  ould  Cleeve  had  "com  for  England." 

Mr.  William  Willis,  in  his  history  of  Portland,  while  candid  and 
always  truthful,  when  he  knew  the  truth,  nevertheless,  in  several 
instances,  has  done  the  memory  of  George  Cleeve  rank  injustice, 
though  not  intentionally  nor  with  indifference,  but  from  accepting  as 
authority  the  loose  statement  of  those  who  had  written  of  Cleeve  in  a 
careless  way,  and  who  sought  rather  to  justify  their  notions  as  to  the 
early  history  of  Maine,  than  to  make  known  the  facts;  he  did  not 
investigate  as  carefully  as  he  should  nor  properly  weigh  the  matter 
he  collected,  which  had  he  done,  he  would  at  least  have  been  able 
to  praise  much  more  and  to  censure  much  less  than  he  did  praise 
ami  censure  the  first  settler  of  Portland.     Mr.  Willis  wrote: — 

"The  government  seemed  now  to  have  been  placed  on  a  respect- 
able footing  and  to  have  afforded  hope  of  permanency,  but  in  1642 
the  civil  war  broke  out  in  England,  the  influence  of  which  extended 
to  the  colonies  and  destroyed  all  that  Gorges  had  so  long  labored  to 


22  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

establish.  He  was  a  firm  Episcopalian  and  royalist  and  joined  the 
king's  party  with  the  same  zeal  which  governed  all  his  former  life; 
although  he  was  more  than  seventy  years  old  he  did  not  hesitate  to 
buckle  on  his  armor  and  trust  himself  once  more  to  the  chances  of 
war  in  the  defense  of  his  principles  and  the  person  of  the  king.  But 
interested  individuals  were  not  idle  to  take  advantage  of  this  state  of 
things  to  aggrandize  themselves  and  to  gratify  feelings  of  jealousy 
and  hatred  against  those  who  were  unfriendly  to  them  or  stood  in 
their  way.  Among  such  circumstantial  evidence  would  seem  to  place 
our  first  settler,  George  Cleeve.  Early  in  1643  we  find  him  in 
England." 

It  alone  remained  to  Cleeve  to  go  to  England.  But  for  the 
change  in  the  source  of  favors  brought  about  by  the  revolution  "our 
first  settler''  would  not  have  had  a  place  in  America  which  he  could 
have  called  his  own.  Cleeve  went  to  England  in  June,  1642.  Dur- 
ing that  and  the  following  year,  the  king's  troops  made  steady  prog- 
ress against  the  Parliamentarian  forces.  The  prospect  was  never 
gloomier  for  the  latter  than  at  the  time  and  for  months  following  the 
period  when  George  Cleeve  was  in  London.  It  is  manifest  then,  that 
he  took  his  chances  on  the  outcome  of  the  war  as  much  as  could  Sir 
Ferdinando  Gorges.  In  no  sense  did  Cleeve  take  advantage  of  the 
ruin  of  the  latter.  The  man  who  voluntarily  submitted  his  title  to 
the  Neck  to  arbitration,  because  his  opponent  had^no  remedy  by 
appeal,  as  was  the  method  in  England,  rather  than  be  charged  with 
unfairness  as  he,  himself,  deemed  fairness  to  be,  was  not  the  man  to 
take  advantage  of  another  when  helpless  and  friendless.  He  met 
powerful  and  active  adversaries  in  the  flush  of  victor}-,  and  won  h  s 
cause  too,  the  ould  Cleeve  did,  without  a  dishonorable  act  upon  his 
part. 

With  knowledge  that  Gorges  and  Trelawney  were  supporters  of 
the  king,  that  hostilities  had  commenced  between  the  contending 
factions  in  England,  that  he  was  about  to  be  deprived  of  his  estates 
by  the  might  alone  of  the  proprietor  of  the  province  of  Maine,  and 
what  was  of  more  avail,  with  full  knowledge  that  the  Plough  patent 
antedated  the  patent  to  Gorges,  this  very  active  lone  republican  of 
Casco  Bay  went  to  London,  persuaded  Sir  Alexander  Rigby  to  pur- 
chase the  Plough  patent,  to  appoint  him  deputy  president  of  the 
province  of  Ligonia  and  to  confirm  in  him  his  title  to  the  land  deeded 
to  him  by  Sir  Ferdinando.     Not  so  very  bad  for  one  old  man  to  do! 

The  person  to  whom  Cleeve  resorted  for  aid  to  accomplish  his 
ends,  was  Thomas  Morton,  he  of  Merry  Mount  fame.  The  two  were 
associated  in  a  wyay  when  Cleeve  was  in  England  in  1636-7.  Morton 
was  then  connected  with  affairs  relating  to  the  colonies  in  America, 
either  as  an  employee  of  Sir  Ferdinando,  or  of  a  company  in  which 
he  was  interested.  During  1637,  Sir  Ferdinando  had  him  discharged, 
"casheered"  he  wrote  Winthrop,  for  an  alleged  deceptive  practice. 
When  Cleeve  again  visited  England  in  1642-3,  affairs  had  so  turned 
themselves  that  Morton  was  the  man  above  all  others  to  aid  in  circum- 
venting Sir  Ferdinando  and  Trelawney  respecting  their  dealings  with 
Cleeve.  Morton  was  in  New  England  in  1622-3,  and  while  there 
kept  the  saints  mindful  that  he  was  to  be  prayed  for.  Probabh-  his 
worst  offense,  to  them,  was  the  erection  of  a  maypole  at  Mount  Wal- 
leston,  about  which  he  and  a  few  jubilists  circled  to  the  left.     It  was 


GEORGE     CLEEVE  -3 

the  first  pleasure  resort  started  on  the  Western  Continent.  A  form- 
idable expedition  was  planned  against  Morton,  under  the  leadership, 
of  the  redoubtable  Miles  Standish,  which  came  upon  Morton  when 
quite  all  of  his  men  were  away  among  the  Indians  purchasing  beaver 
pelts.  Morton  sought  another  clime,  his  followers  scattered  and  the 
saints  turned  their  attention  to  the  development  of  the  witch  indus- 
try. If  there  were  a  person  whom  a  Puritan  delighted  in  orally 
excoriating,  it  was  Morton.  So  extreme  was  their  hatred  of  the  man 
that  another  having  to  do  with  him  became  a  subject  of  their  male- 
dictions. Even  by  Edward  Winslow,  the  recollections  of  the  service. 
of  Cleeve  through  the  giving  of  his  testimony  in  behalf  of  the  Bay 
colony  to  such  purpose,  in  the  presence  of  the  king,  as  has  been 
related,  were  forgotten.  Under  date  of  September  n,  1643,  he  wrote 
Winthrop: 

"As  for  Mr.  Rigby,  if  he  be  so  good,  honest  and  hopeful  an 
instrument  as  report  passeth  on  him,  he  hath  hap  to  light  on  two  of 
the  arrantest  known  knaves  that  ever  trod  on  New  England  shore  to 
be  his  agent,  east  or  west,  as  Cleeve  and  Morton."  The  clause  fol- 
lowing is  devoted  to  Morton  only.  Though  Cleeve  was  not  spared 
by  the  writer,  he  delighted  in  distinguishing  Morton  above  all  other 
knaves.  The  author  of  the  "New  England  Canaan"  was  to  a  Puri- 
tan, like  a  red  rag  to  a  bull. 

Colonel  Rigby,  though  an  Episcopalian,  was  a  warm  supporter 
of  the  cause  of  Parliament.  To  interest  him  in  a  colonial  undertak- 
ing in  the  tumultuous  period  of  1642-3,  bespeaks  the  tact,  enterprise 
and  force  of  character  of  George  Cleeve. 

The  Deputy  President  of  Ligonia  arrived  in  the  province  in  the 
fall  of  1643.  Trouble  enough  there  was  to  follow;  those  ardent,  head- 
strong, proud  Episcopalian  royalists,  while  the  war  continued,  could  be 
compelled  by  force  only  to  be  governed  by  an  independent  in  religion 
and  a  republican  in  politics,  one  whom  they  so  much  feared  as  they 
did  Cleeve.  Around  Casco  bay  there  were  a  few  planters  who  were 
grantees  of  Cleeve,  and  there  were  others  in  his  employ;  quite  all  had 
a  community  of  interest  with  him  in  protecting  their  own  and  his 
estates,  and  for  this  reason  they  would  become  supporters  of  the  new 
government;  so,  the  Deputy  President  could  proclaim  the  new  govern- 
ment at  his  home  where  there  would  be  recognition  of  it  by  a  consid- 
erable portion  of  the  people.  At  Casco  Bay  he  announced  his 
authority  as  Deputy  President  of  Ugonia,  under  its  President,  Sir 
Alexander  Rigby,  and  appointed  his  officers  for  the  governing  of  the 
province.  There  was  no  undue  haste;  the  court  which  served  for 
legislative  purposes  as  well  as  judicial,  was  not  to  be  held  until  the 
last  of  March,  1644.  Plenty  of  time  was  given  to  the  opposition  in 
which  to  fume,  to  fret,  and  to  submit.  The  interval  also  served  the 
Deputy  President  in  which  to  discover  upon  what  and  whom  he 
could  rely  for  support.  No  man  he  feared;  nothing  he  tried  to  do  and 
failed;  nothing  of  advantage  wras  left  undone  with  available  means  to 
do  it,  and  no  task  was  attempted  but  with  the  best  of  means  at  hand 
for  the  purpose.  Right  forward  he  moved  with  not  a  backward  step; 
most  fearfully  in  earnest  was  the  ould  Cleeve.  Those  rebels  must  be 
subdued !  The  means  for  so  doing  by  force  was  the  colony  of 
Massachusetts  Bay,  thoroughly  republican,  if  she  but  chose  to  act. 
The  struggle  between  the  contending  parties  in  England,  then  at  its 


24  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

height,  did  not  permit  either  of  them  to  notice  or  to  consider  the  pig- 
my settlements  strung  along  the  Atlantic  coast;  they  would  belong  to 
the  victor;  so  no  assistance  was  to  be  expected  from  Parliament  yet 
awhile.  The  Deputy  President  called  upon  the  Bay  colony  for  aid. 
Its  authorities  declined  to  employ  force,  but  would  write  a  letter  to 
the  recalcitrants,  as  though  in  the  year  when  victory  followed  the 
banners  of  the  king,  that  a  letter  from  them  would  have  any  influence 
with  a  party  of  Cavaliers,  in  inducing  them  to  submit  to  the  new 
government.  Clearly  the  colony  was  prepared  to  hazard  but  little 
on  the  outcome  of  the  war. 

The  center  of  the  insurrection  was  at  Saco.  There  gathered 
Richard  Vines,  the  deputy  governor  of  the  remnant  of  Sir  Ferdi- 
nando's  province  of  Maine,  and  his  royalist  supporters,  Henry  Joce- 
lyn,  Robert  Jordan,  Edward  Godfrey  and  quite  all  the  large  land 
owners,  grantees  of  Gorges  or  of  the  lord's  patentees;  there  they  held 
court  and  defied  and  threatened  Cleeve.  It  is  noticeable  that  their 
bumps  of  pugnacity  swelled  as  their  hopes  were  raised  for  the  success 
of  the  king's  cause;  that  when  their  hopes  were  high  they  contem- 
plated roughshod  proceedings,  and  that  when  low  or  despondent  were 
they  in  hopes  of  his  success,  they  were  contented  to  resort  to  petty 
annoyances.  Not  for  a  day  did  Cleeve  cease  to  press  them,  to  persist 
in  his  authority  over  them,  and  to  endeavor  to  deprive  them  of  hope 
of  assistance  from  the  colony  of  Massachusett  Bay,  to  whose  authori- 
ties they  were  continually  writing  for  aid. 

The  Deputy  President  never  had  a  cause  of  action  or  claimed  a 
right,  whose  justice,  or  his  title  to,  he  would  not  submit  to  arbitra- 
tion. Let  him  but  have  the  chance  of  winning  upon  what  he 
believed  was  lawful,  and  he  ever  stood  ready  and  willing  to  take  that 
chance.  No  one  could  be  fairer  than  he,  but  his  opponent  must  also 
be  fair  with  him,  or  over  would  go  board  of  arbitration,  court  of  law, 
government  or  anything  that  stood  in  the  way  of  the  doing  of  what 
was  right  and  proper.  The  Deputy  President  proposed  to  Vines  to 
arbitrate;  he  secured  the  consent  of  all  of  his  adherents  to  a  proposal 
for  arbitration,  and  to  an  agreement  to  submit  to  whichever  govern- 
ment, Rigby's  or  Gorges',  the  arbitrators  should  say  was  the  rightful 
one,  until  the  question  was  determined  by  higher  authority.  The 
proposal  necessarily  carried  with  it  a  measure  for  peace.  It  was  not 
accepted.  The  arbitrators  were  to  be  men  of  the  colon}'  of  Massa- 
chusetts Bay.  There  were  no  exceptions  taken  to  the  parties  named 
as  arbitrators.  Vines  represented  that  he  had  no  authority  to  submit 
the  interests  of  Gorges  to  arbitration.  An  excuse  must  be  offered 
that  the  neighbors  may  not  think  he  was  afraid  to  trust  them.  It  is 
noticeable  that  in  1646,  when  the  Cavaliers  in  England  had  not  the 
ghost  of  a  show  of  winning  in 'the  war,  that  then  a  proposition  to  arbi- 
trate was  accepted  by  the  Gorges  faction  with  the  result  that  upon  the 
hearing,  the  arbitrators  were  unable  to  decide  anything  of  importance 
relative  to  the  rights  of  the  respective  claimants.  However,  in  1644, 
the  hopes  of  the  king's  party  were  high;  then  there  was  no  thought 
of  arbitrating,  could  not  arbitrate,  had  nothing  to  arbitrate.  With 
the  Deputy  President,  justice  was  ever  the  same  and  eternal,  however 
tilings  went  with  Cromwell;  at  all  times  he  was  willing  to  arbitrate. 
So,  when  Mr.  Tucker  came  to  Saco  as  the  bearer  of  the  offer  for  arbi- 
tration, Vines  had  him  arrested  and  released  him  only  upon  giving 


GEORGE     CLEEVE  25 

bonds  for  his  appearance  at  a  time  named.  Of  course  no  good  can 
follow,  but  Vines  has  special  cause  for  anger  at  this  Tucker  who  is  so 
loyal  to  the  Deputy  President  and  has  been  so  active  in  securing 
adherents  for  the  government  of  Rigby.  Vines  will  have  to  explain 
his  course  to  the  authorities  of  the  Bay  colony  who  have  been  expect- 
ing that  he  will  not  resort  to  harsh  measures,  until  it  has  been  deter- 
mined which  government  is  the  legal  one.  Let  Vines,  in  writing  to 
them,  premise  the  account  of  his  proceedings  against  the  bearer  of  an 
offer  to  arbitrate,  howsoever  he  will,  with  complaints  of  "the  evell 
practices  of  Mr.  Cleeves  and  Mr.  Tucker  tending  to  the  ruin  of  the 
province;"  finally  he  must  confess  in  his  letter  the  wherewithal  for 
the  ould  Cleeve  to  convict  him  out  of  his  own  mouth.  The  injury 
resulting  to  the  losing  cause  of  the  Gorges  faction  by  this  rash 
act  of  the  arrest  of  Tucker,  prompts  it  to  the  use  of  threats,  until  once 
more  news  is  brought  of  a  favorable  turn  of  affairs  for  the  king  whose 
plans  had  been  sadly  disarranged  by  the  loss  of  the  battle  of  Marston 
Moor  in  July,  1644.  Parliamentary  negotiations  with  the  king  with- 
out reckoning  with  the  army,  could  again  give  rise  to  hopes  to  Cava- 
liers so  far  distant  as  Maine,  where  they  once  more  grow  pugnacious. 
Vines,  the  indiscreet,  holds  court  at  Saco  in  March,  1645,  where  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Thomas  Jenner  of  the  Puritan  persuasion  is,  and  who  is  at 
outs  with  Deputy  Governor  Vines.  Right  faithfully  does  the  reverend 
gentleman  depict  to  the  Puritan  authorities  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay 
colony  as  to  how  Deputy  Governor  Vines  violated  his  word  to  "Your 
Worshipfuls"  with  respect  to  keeping  the  peace;  how  said  Deputy 
Governor  had  issued  a  warrant  for  the  arrest  of  the  Deputy  President 
of  Ligonia  and  his  faithful  Tucker  and  by  force  of  arms  had  arrested 
another  adherent  of  the  Deputy  President,  a  Mr.  Henry  Watts,  who 
for  the  time  being,  chose  to  acknowledge  the  Gorges  government, 
rather  than  pay  a  fine;  how  to  subdue  the  Deputy  President  and  the 
Rigbyites,  said  Vines  and  Company  "have  fitted  themselves  with 
bilbowes  and  ordained  Capt.  John  Bonython,  Colonel  General." 
The  reverend  gentleman  has  a  complaint  of  his  own  against  Vines, 
whom  he  charges  with  having  advised  some  of  "My  parishioners  not 
to  pay  me  stipend."     He  concludes  with — 

"Truly,  I  thinke  verily,  that  the  maine  motive  which  stirs  them 
to  be  so  violent  against  Mr.  Righbie's  conduct,  is  their  manifold 
debts  to  the  people  in  the  Bay  &  else  wher.  Now,  so  long  as  they 
have  the  stafe  in  their  owne  hands,  they  care  not.  No  man  scarce 
durst  aske  for  their  owne  much  (less)  to  sue  for  it." 

Certainly,  with  a  wrought-up  divine  on  the  subject  of  money 
matters,  to  depict  the  doings  of  Vines  and  Company  to  the^Bay  peo- 
ple, it  was  not  necessary  for  the  Deputy  President  to  send  to  them  his 
tale  of  woe;  the  divine  would  do  the  whole  business,  which  he  did  do; 
so,  we  hear  nothing  from  the  Digonian  officials. 

The  Deputy  President,  in  a  contest,  drew  to  his  aid  everything 
serving  a  purpose  therein,  and  made  attacks  all  along  the  line.  As 
his  opponents  were  Episcopalians,  it  was  well  to  patronize  the  Inde- 
pendents. The  Rev.  Mr.  Jenner  held  services  at  Casco.  Directly 
upon  his  return  from  England  to  Casco,  the  Deputy  President  encour- 
aged the  settlement  there  of  a  minister  of  the  Puritan  faith.  In  a 
letter  under  date  of  January  27,  1644,  in  phrases  of  the  pious  of  those 
days,  he  advised  Winthrop  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan's  "vile  reproach- 


26  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ful  terms  concerning  the  church  of  Christ  in  this  land,"  and  how  "they 
seeing  us  about  to  settle  ourselves  under  the  ministry,  and  that  we  are 
in  hopes  that  the  Lord  will  gather  a  church  amongst  us;  this  causeth 
them  and  there  prelatticall  counsellor  (Jordan)  to  raidge,  which  will 
insite  you  to  assist  us  so  much  the  rather."  Thus  in  advance  the 
ould  Cleeve  took  occasion  to  spike  any  guns  which  Vines  et  al  may 
have  across  the  bay. 

Upon  the  petition  of  Cleeve  to  Parliament  in  1642,  a  commission 
issued  to  Winthrop,  Arthur  Macworth  (a  partisan  of  Vines)  and 
another  to  take  the  answer  of  lawyer  Godfrey  and  Richard  Vines,  to 
articles  of  complaint  which  had  been  filed  against  them,  presumably  by 
Cleeve,  and  to  take  the  depositions  of  the  witnesses  who  had  been 
named  to  prove  these  articles.  What  Godfrey  and  Vines  were 
charged  with  has  not  been  learned.  Vines  stated  that  if  he  incurred 
the  penalty  for  what  he  was  accused,  he  and  his  family  were  ruined. 
They  certainly  had  no  cause  of  complaint  as  to  the  parties  composing 
the  commission.  Macworth  was  prejudiced  in  their  favor  and  they 
had  no  reason  to  doubt  the  probity  of  John  Winthrop.  Seemingly 
they  had  only  to  fear  the  truth  becoming  known;  hence  their  deter- 
mination never  to  appear  before  the  commission.  It  is  pleasing  to 
read  how  Vines  not  only  carried  out  this  determination,  but  actually 
tried  himself,  and  in  so  solemn  a  manner  as  to  mislead  eminent  histo- 
rians into  the  opinion  that  his  accuser,  George  Cleeve,  was  tried  and 
convicted  of  forgery.  Lawyer  Godfrey  was  not  as  badly  frightened 
as  was  Vines;  how  he  managed  to  avoid  the  proceedings  his  biogra- 
pher does  not  relate. 

The  Deputy  President  did  not  forward  the  commission  to  Win- 
throp until  February  2,  1644,  directly  after  Tucker's  arrest  at  Saco, 
when  he  was  the  bearer  of  the  offer  of  arbitration.  Under  the  cir- 
cumstances, the  information  of  the  issuance  of  this  commission  must 
have  been  a  surprise  to  Messrs.  Godfrey  and  Vines.  It  kept  them 
guessing  as  to  what  else  Cleeve  had  up  his  sleeve  and  busy  avoiding 
the  proceedings.  In  those  days  of  unsettled  authority,  both  in  the 
colonies  and  in  the  mother  country,  there  was  favorable  opportunity 
to  evade  legal  proceedings,  because  of  the  lack  of  power  to  enforce 
them  in  those  localities  where  the  strength  of  the  contending  factions 
was  nearly  equal.  Such  was  the  condition  in  Maine.  Nothing  more 
came  of  the  proceedings  than  wiggling  and  squirming  to  avoid  answer- 
ing the  articles  of  complaint.  What  further  was  done  than  to  examine 
a  few  witnesses  by  ex-parte  method,  does  not  appear.  The  matter 
was  moved  in  but  slowly,  for  in  August,  1645,  Vines  wrote  Gov. 
Winthrop  complaining  that  he  "had  some  hard  measure  in  commis- 
sion that  came  from  Parliament;"  that  means  had  not  been  afforded 
him  to  "vindicate  myselfe  from  Cleves  his  most  unjust  accusations 
against  me  to  the  honorable  house  of  Parliament,  which  may  cause 
the  utter  mine  of  myselfe  and  family."  He  continues  in  the  letter 
about  the  sad  predicament  to  which  he  is  reduced;  that  he  dare  not 
leave  his  family  to  go  to  Boston  because  of  mischief  that  might  befall 
his  family  from  Cleeve;  how  Cleeve  sent  him  a  daily  threat  of  his 
downfall  if  he  did  go  to  Boston;  that  if  he  went  there  "I  would  ly 
fast  or  go  home  without  my  leggs."  Clearly,  Deputy  Governor 
Vines  did  not  want  to  go  to  Boston.  Why  he  thought  there  was 
intention  of  be-legging  him,  the  records  do  not  disclose.     It  is  not 


GEORGE    CLEEVE  &l 

known  for  what  crimes  the  Puritans  be-legged  offenders.  Any  way, 
Vines  was  in  sad  straights.  Better  sell  one's  belongings  and  leave 
the  country,  than  to  lose  one's  legs  in  Boston  in  those  days. 

In  October,  1645,  the  Gorges  faction  held  a  court  at  Saco;  quite 
all  the  recalcitrants  were  in  attendance,  and  judging  by  the  records 
of  its  proceedings,  their  chief  business  was  to  pay  their  respects  to  the 
absent  Cleeve  and  prepare  a  certificate  of  good  character  for  Vines. 
He,  as  we  have  seen,  would  not  appear  in  Boston  before  the  commis- 
sioners appointed  by  Parliament,  to  answer  the  articles  of  complaint 
preferred  against  him  by  Cleeve;  could  do  better  in  his  own  court  in 
Saco,  where,  whatever  the  result,  he  would  not  be  be-legged. 
Accordingly  he  proceeded  to  try  himself.  There  were  filed  two  affi- 
davits of  which  one  was  sworn  to  by  nine  persons,  including  Arthur 
Macworth,  one  of  the  commissioners  named  by  Parliament.  It  reads 
as  follows: 

"We  whose  names  are  hereunto  written  do  testify  upon  our  oaths 
that  we  never  gave  to  Mr.  George  Cleves  of  Cascoe  in  the  Province  of 
Mayne  in  New  England  (authority)  to  prefer  any  petition  or  to  exhib- 
it any  articles  in  Parliament  against  Mr.  Richard  Vines  of  New  Eng- 
land aforesaid.  Neither  did  wee  either  see  or  knowe  of  the  said  arti- 
cles or  petition  until  the  said  George  Cleaves  did  last  come  out  of 
England.  Neither  can  we  testify  any  such  things  as  are  exhibited  in 
the  said  petition  or  declared  by  his  articles  against  Mr.  Richard  Vines 
by  the  said  Cleaves." 

If  the  parties  were  named  as  witnesses  by  Cleeve  as  competent  to 
prove  the  charges  he  had  preferred  against  Vines,  it  would  have 
looked  better  in  the  latter  had  he  adduced  their  evidence  in  the 
proper  tribunal  to  show  that  they  were  not  thus  competent.  Surely, 
they  would  not  be  be-legged  if  they  went  to  Boston. 

The  other  affidavit  was  signed  by  Mr.  Francis  Robinson;  it  reads 
much  the  same  as  the  foregoing  with  this  additional  clause: 

"And  I  doe  more  over  testify  that  Mr.  Thomas  Jenner,  Minister 
of  God's  word,  told  me  he  asked  Mr.  Cleaves  why  he  putt  men's 
hands  to  a  petition  they  never  saw  &  he  said  his  answer  was  that 
Parliament  bid  him  doe  it." 

That  is,  Parliament  bade  Cleeve  commit  forgery!  Any  way  it 
would  have  been  better  to  have  had  the  oath  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jenner 
who  was  present,  to  what  he  heard  Cleeve  state,  rather  than  that  of  a 
person  who  heard  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jenner's  say  as  to  the  matter.  Per- 
haps the  judges  attached  much  importance  to  the  testimony  of  Rob- 
inson, who  was  courting  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jenner's  daughter  (not  with 
the  father's  consent)  and,  therefore,  thought  that  Robinson  ought  to 
know  fully  as  well  as  the  reverend  gentleman  himself. 

Assuredly  the  truth  is  that  Cleeve  was  required  to  name  the  wit- 
nesses by  whom  he  could  prove  the  charges  he  had  preferred  against 
Vines,  and  was  directed  by  a  committee  of  Parliament  to  give  their 
names  in  writing,  which  then  directed  that  these  witnesses  be 
sworn  before  the  commissioners.  In  any  event,  as  the  facts  were, 
neither  Robinson  nor  other  witness  stated  that  his  name  was  affixed 
to  any  document  by  Cleeve,  meaning  thereby  that  he  signed  the 
name  so  as  to  purport  to  those  to  whom  the  document  was  to  be  pre- 
sented, that  it  was  signed  by  the  individual  himself.  It  is  to  be 
regretted  that    so  eminent  a  historian,   as  was  Mr.   Willis,  mistook 


28  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

these  affidavits  and  the  proceedings  in  the  Saco  court  as  evidence 
that  Cleeve  was  charged  with,  and  tried  for,  committing  forger}-, 
though  he  thought  that  no  great  consideration  should  be  attached  to 
the  outcome,  as  Cleeve  was  not  permitted  to  be  present  to  defend 
himself.  Had  there  been  a  pretense  that  forger}7  had  been  committed, 
how  easily  Macworth,  who  was  one  of  the  commissioners  appointed 
by  Parliament,  could  have  advised  with  the  other  commissioners,  one 
of  whom  was  John  Winthrop,  and  thus  quashed  the  proceedings 
against  Vines  through  making  known  the  facts.  However,  as  results 
were  turning  out,  Vines  became  impressed  with  the  belief  that  the 
Barbadoes  had  a  better  climate  than  had  the  province  of  Maine,  was 
safer  for  one's  legs;  so,  with  his  family  and  certificate  of  good  char- 
acter he  departed  thither,  and  by  his  going  the  province  lost  a  most 
excellent  magistrate  and  gentleman. 

The  October  term  of  the  Saco  court  in  the  year  1645,  Lawyer 
Godfrey  thought  a  good  opportunity  to  secure  a  judgment  against 
Cleeve  on  that  old  demand  for  costs  in  the  Star  Chamber  court  pro- 
ceedings. The  Deputy  President  never  did  constrain  himself  to 
recognize  the  judgment  of  a  court  conducted  by  the  recalcitrants. 
Hence,  Lawyer  Godfrey  died  with  this  sum  owing  to  him,  as  he 
believed,  — died  in  a  debtor's  prison  on  Ludlow  street,  London,  some 
twenty  years  later.  Worse  men  have  had  a  better  fate,  as  he,  himself, 
was  deserving;    for  he  was  a  man  of  many  sterling  qualities. 

During  the  year  1645  Mr.  Winter  died.  It  is  not  found  that  he 
was  active  in  opposition  to  the  Deputy  President;  the  latter  does  not 
mention  him  in  any  of  his  letters.  Winter  had  reason  to  recollect 
that  terrible  time  in  1640- 1  when  Cleeve  pursued  him  so  vigorously 
on  land  and  water,  and,  therefore,  was  not  participating  in  politics  in 
these  later  stormy  days.  The  fact  was  that  the  Deputy  President 
had  effectually  squelched  all  pretensions  of  Winter  and  Trelawney 
(who  too  died  that  year)  to  any  claim  to  the  Neck.  Winter's  son- 
in-law,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan,  was  becoming  conspicuous,  of  whom 
the  Deputy  President  will  have  to  take  notice  and  to  whom  he  will 
lay  down  the  law,  shortly,  in  matters  of  religious  practice.  The  ould 
Cleeve  makes  matters  very  interesting  for  all  his  opponents  along  the 
many  lines  afforded  him,  and  keeps  them  busy  too,  as  this  active 
reverend  gentleman  will  learn  at  a  later  day. 

The  territory  along  the  coast  from  the  Piscataqua  river  to  Saco, 
remained  to  Gorges;  in  extent  it  was  considerably  larger  than 
Ligonia  and  had  a  larger  number  of  inhabitants,  quite  all  of  whom 
were  bent  on  the  destruction  of  Rigby's  proprietary  government  of 
Ligonia.  Their  number,  added  to  the  Gorges  partisans  in  Ligonia, 
made  quite  a  formidable  showing  and  far  exceeded  the  followers  of 
Cleeve.  Said  territory  constituted  Gorges'  province  of  Mayne  after 
the  province  of  Ligonia  was  recognized  by  the  English  government, 
and  it  remained  to  his  heir  until  1652. 

The  Gorges  faction  elected  Henry  Jocelyn  to  succeed  Vines  as 
Deputy  Governor  of  Mayne.  If  Vines  was  indiscreet,  Jocelyn  was 
next  to  insane  in  his  method  of  opposition  to  the  Deputy  President  of 
Ligonia.  Jocelyn  was  for  strong  measures.  His  residence  was  at 
Black  Point,  probably  fifteen  miles  from  the  home  of  Cleeve,  and 
there  and  at  other  places  he  commenced  to  gather  his  men  whom  he 
armed  and  drilled,  to  make  civil  war  indeed,  if  some  one  as  foolish  as 


GEORGE    CLEEVE  29 

he  can  be  found  to  war  with  him.  All  this  is  known  to  the  Deputy 
President  at  Casco  who  writes  it  to  Winthrop  under  date  of  February 
18,  1645,  in  terms  as  follows:  "At  which  time,  they  having  made  a 
party  of  neare  an  hundred  (as  we  are  informed)  to  set  upon  us  & 
violently  to  resist  Mr.  Rigby's  authority  &  so  take  us  and  our  partie 
&  slay  us  or  deale  with  us  at  their  pleasure."  The  Deputy  Presi- 
dent requested  a  few  armed  men  from  Massachusetts,  for  the  protec- 
tion of  the  people,  but  none  were  sent.  However,  nothing  deterred 
him  from  holding  court  in  March  at  Casco  Bay  on  the  Neck.  There 
the  officers  and  the  people  of  Ligonia  assembled  and  awaited  the 
coming  of  the  bold  cavaliers.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Tenner  tells  what  hap- 
pened. As  was  the  custom  he  preached  a  sermon  on  the  opening  of 
the  court  and  made  himself  indispensable  in  various  ways,  as  was  the 
wont  of  divines  in  those  days  on  quite  all  occasions.  Mr.  Joeelyn 
came  with  his  company  armed  with  guns  and  swords.  The  Deputy 
President  and  his  company  were  unarmed.  After  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Jenner  had  discoursed,  Mr.  Joeelyn  with  his  company  took  a  position 
about  forty  rods  from  where  were  assembled  the  people  of  Ligonia, 
and  the  next  morning  proceeded  to  read  the  riot  act,  enjoining  the 
Ligonians  to  submit  to  the  Gorges  government.  This  much  was 
accomplished;  that  stipulations  were  entered  into  for  arbitration,  as 
had  been  proposed  by  the  Deputy  President  a  year  earlier,  with 
Governor  Winthrop  and  others  of  the  Bay  colony  as  arbitrators. 

This  also  in  addition  happened,  viz.,  that  the  Deputy  President 
in  no  uncertain  terms  forbade  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan  "to  administer 
the  scales  of  the  covenant  promiscuously  &  without  due  order  & 
ordination  within  the  province  of  Ligonia." 

And  still  further,  continues  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jenner:  — 

"I  must  needs  acknowledge  to  their  high  commendation  that 
both  Mr.  Joeelyn  and  Mr.  Cleeve  carried  on  the  interaction  very 
friendly  like  men  of  wisdom  and  prudence,  not  giving  one  unbehold- 
ing  word  each  together." 

Then  this  Sphinx,  as  a  worthy  historian  has  spoken  of  him, 
imperturbably  watched  the  approach  of  the  rebels  with  Colonel- 
general  John  Bonythou  at  their  head,  all  armed  with  bilboes,  as  they 
crowded  on  the  shore  of  Casco  river  and  are  ferried  by  the  boatload 
to  the  Neck;  unfalteringly,  for  all  of  their  braggadocio,  stood  his 
ground  at  the  official  building,  as  they  march  by;  never  for  one 
minute  wavered  or  lost  his  self-control ;  and  when  the  time  came,  he 
did  not  forget  to  give  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan  a  lick  with  the  rough  side 
of  his  tongue.  We  are  left  to  conjecture  as  to  how  Colonel-general 
Bouython,  Deputy  Governor  Joeelyn  and  Chief-counsellor  Jordan 
accommodated  their  band  of  bilboe  bearers  during  those  bleak  March 
days.  However,  the  Deputy  President  was  a  cheerful,  hospitable, 
genial  host,  no  doubt,  and  had  stocks  of  hogs  and  goats  and  deer 
and  fish  by  the  ton,  and  cellars  of  beer  by  the  tun  too.  Rest  assured 
that  all  were  well  served  and  treated  and  long  remembered  the  day 
when  Colonel-general  Bonython  at  the  the  head  of  the  forces  of  the 
Province  of  Mayne  led  the  attack  on  the  people  of  the  Province  of 
Ligonia;  and  how  they  were,  one  and  all,  fairly  captivated  by  the 
ould  Cleeve.  Well  also  did  they  and  the  people  of  Ligonia  remem- 
ber how  the  Deputy  President,  the  Deputy  Governor,  the  Colonel- 
general  and  (of  course)  the  Rev.  Messrs.  Jenner  and  Jordan  met  in  the 


30  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

court  room  and  there  discussed  at  great  length  their  differences  and 
proposals;  how  in  the  end  they  agreed  to  do  the  very  thing  the  ould 
Cleeve  was  always  willing  and  desirious  of  doing,  viz.:  to  arbitrate 
the  question  as  to  which  government  had  a  legal  existence.  After 
two  or  three  days  of  confab  Jocelyn  and  his  forces  retired.  Gov. 
Winthrop  had  advised  both  parties  to  abide  their  differences  and 
each  had  acted  thereon.  Nothing  came  of  the  arbitration,  as,  the 
arbitrators  did  not  find  the  proofs  of  either  party  sufficient  for  the 
purpose  of  an  award.  However,  within  a  few  months  arrived  the 
decision  by  the  Commissioners  for  the  Colonies.  It  was  in  favor  of 
Rigby,  and  Cleeve  was  at  once  recognized  by  all  factions  as  Deputy 
President  of  Ljgonia. 

We  have  very  little  information  as  to  the  composition  of  the  gov- 
ernment of  Ligouia.  There  were  a  number  of  assistants  who,  with 
the  Deputy  President,  constituted  the  general  assembly  whose  powers 
were  legislative  and  judicial. 

For  twelve  years  George  Cleeve  was  the  ruler,  the  Deputy  Presi- 
dent. Not  a  single  incident  happened  to  cast  reproach  upon  his 
administration,  and  but  one  to  ruffle  the  calm  of  peace  which  the  peo- 
ple of  Ligonia  enjoyed  during  a  period  when,  in  England  and  her  other 
colonies,  there  wrere  more  or  less  of  turmoil  and  rigid  political  restraint. 
The  sturdy  old  republican  Deputy  President  suffered  no  religious 
strife  in  the  province,  or  other  strife. 

Strange  it  is  that  there  is  extant  no  records  of  the  proceedings  of 
the  general  assembly,  save  that  referable  to  the  estate  of  John  Win- 
ter, in  the  view  that  the  government  of  Cleeve  was  followed  by  that 
of  the  government  of  Massachusetts  Bay  whose  duty  it  was  to  secure 
and  preserve  such  records.  That  courts  were  held  and  laws  were 
enacted  under  which  rights  became  vested  and  which,  in  subsequent 
years,  were  respected,  are  evidenced  by  that  title  to  the  Trelawney 
grant  in  the  Jordan  heirs,  is  solely  founded  upon  a  judgment  of  the 
province  of  Ligonia;  yet  there  exists  hardly  a  scrap  either  of  the  judi- 
cial or  legislative  acts  of  the  general  assembly,  other  than  as  noted. 

Nor  have  we  but  little  more  as  to  the  events  happening  in  the 
province.  It  is  worthy  of  remark  that  this  gentle  calm  in  civil  mat- 
ters followed  as  chaotic  a  state  of  affairs,  short  of  actual  warfare,  as 
can  well  be  conceived.  The  happenings  of  a  day,  one  with  another, 
were  so  much  alike,  the  seasons  through,  that  the  story  of  the  lives 
of  the  people  is  told  in  the  relation  of  their  manners  and  customs. 
Never  was  there  a  greater  plenty  of  so  many  comforts  of  life  more 
generally  enjoyed  by  the  settlers,  nor  was  there  ever  a  longer  contin- 
uance of  uninterrupted  enjoyment  of  the  fruits  of  labor,  when  so 
slight  effort  insured  so  bountiful  a  harvest,  than  was  their  lot  under 
the  rule  of  Cleeve.  Wrote  John  Jocelyn —  "Nine  miles  eastward  of 
Black  Point  lieth  scatteringly  the  town  of  Casco  upon  a  large  bay, 
stored  with  cattle,  sheep,  swine,  abundance  of  marsh  and  arable  land, 
a  corn-mill  or  two,   and  stages  for  fisherman.  *  They  have  a 

custom  of  taking  tobacco,  sleeping  at  noon,  sitting  long  at  meals, 
sometimes  four  times  a  day  and  then  drinking  a  dram  of  the  bottle 
extraordinary.  They  feed  generally  upon  as  good  flesh,  beef,  pork, 
mutton,  fowl  and  fish,  as  any  in  the  world  beside.  Their  servants, 
which  are  most  English,  will  not  work  at  less  than  half  a  crown  a 
day,  when  they  are  out  of  their  time." 


GEORGE     CLEEVE  31 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  more  information  has  not  been  preserved 
as  to  those  halcyon  days  in  Ligonia,  when  the  province  was  ruled  by  a 
just  and  upright  man  for  twelve  years,  who  had  completed  his  three 
score  years  and  ten  before  he  commenced  to  rule.  We  could  the 
more  vividly  realize  how  completely  this  Arcadia  was  due  to  Cleeve' s 
own  efforts,  if  we  were  able  to  correctly  imagine  the  chaos  that 
would  have  been  his  opponents,  had  they  been  in  power,  alone  due  to 
their  greed  of  gain,  their  spirit  for  revenge  and  their  desire  to  humil- 
iate. There  is  no  reason  to  believe  but  that  at  all  times  his  rule  was 
as  vigorous  as  it  was  just.  One  who  could  worry  a  person  of  the 
character  of  John  Winter,  so  persistent  and  stubborn  as  was  he.  as 
Cleeve  worried  him  by  writs,  executions  and  orders,  with  constables, 
deputy  marshals  and  marshals,  with  posse  on  land  and  sea,  night  and 
day,  and  along  the  entire  coast  of  the  province  of  Maine  have  these 
dogs  of  the  law  ever  on  the  watch;  besieged  him  in  house,  boat  and 
ship,  at  home  and  abroad,  week  in  and  week  out,  harried,  pursued, 
and  finally  bound  him  "in  a  band;"  all  this  to  collect  a  debt,  — such 
a  one  would  not  fail  to  most  effectually  enforce  lav/  and  order  when  it 
became  his  duty  to  do  so.  At  no  time  would  his  rule  be  "feeble 
sway." 

The  death  of  the  proprietor.  Sir  Alexander  Rigby,  in  1650,  was  an 
occasion  which  the  chronic  recalcitrants  could  not  let  slip  by  without 
some  kind  of  a  demonstration,  that  their  hand  at  the  business  might  not 
lose  its  cunning.  The  Deputy  President,  in  lieu  of  mulcting  them 
heavily  and  committing  them  to  prison,  took  the  milder  course  of  put- 
ting up  with  their  opposition  to  the  proprietary  government  of  Rigby, 
until  it  became  necessary  for  him  as  a  matter  of  duty  to  report  the  sit- 
uation to  Sir  Alexander's  heir,  Mr.  Edward  Rigby.  Cleeve  went  to 
England  in  1652,  in  which  year  the  new  proprietor  addressed  a  letter  to 
the  several  gentlemen  of  the  province  of  whom  complaint  had  been 
made,  in  which  the}'  were  advised  in  cogent  terms  to  desist  in  their 
schemes  or  they  would  be  forced  to  submission.  Cleeve  thus  struck 
and  hit  hard;  rebellious  methods  ceased. 

If  the  Deputy  President,  in  his  official  capacity,  ever  did  anything 
that  will  not  stand  the  test  of  criticism,  it  was  his  act  in  allowing  the 
property  of  the  estate  of  Robert  Trelawney  to  be  sold  to  satisfy  the 
demand  of  a  few  hundred  pounds  which  the  estate  of  John  Winter 
had  against  Trelawney.  The  latter  was  in  prison  at  the  time  of  his 
death,  and  quite  all  of  his  property  in  England  had  been  confiscated. 
His  heir  was  his  son  of  the  age  of  eight  years,  and  his  large  inheri- 
tance in  the  province  of  Ligonia  was  sold  to  satisfy  said  demand. 
The  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan,  who  was  the  administrator  of  the  estate  of 
Winter,  had  married  Winter's  daughter  and  was  the  purchaser  of 
the  Trelawney  estate.  The  Deputy  President  concerned  himself  in 
the  matter  no  further  than  as  his  judicial  power  was  invoked  by  the 
petitioners  in  the  proceedings.  That  he  could  have  prevented  the 
sale,  is  probable,  and  that  he  did  not,  is  the  act  that  may  be  criti- 
cised. The  Deputy  President  was  not  the  public  officer  to  permit 
himself  to  do  more  for  one  than  for  another  of  the  people  of  the  prov- 
ince which  he  ruled.  The  ould  Cleeve  had  suffered  from  the  part 
Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges  as  proprietor,  had  taken  against  him  in  his 
contest  with  the  child's  father.  A  part  like  the  one  played  by  Sir 
Ferdinando  was  not  to  his  liking.     So,  while  the  sacrifice  of  the  child's 


32  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

estate  may  excite  sympathy  of  those  who  read  about  its  having  been 
done,  there  is  plenty  of  ground  for  justification  of  the  course  of  the 
Deputy  President  in  the  matter. 

Let  it  be  considered  what  a  grand  opportunity  was  presented  to 
the  Deputy  President,  in  the  course  of  the  legal  proceedings  that 
were  to  effect  the  transfer  of  title  to  the  Trelawney  lands  from  the 
Trelawney  heir  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan,  in  which  to  exact  from 
the  latter  a  deed  of  release  of  all  claims  to  land  north  of  Casco  or  Fore 
river,  to  which  Trelawney  asserted  title  under  his  patent,  as  one  of 
the  conditions  under  which  those  proceedings  would  be  allowed  to 
be  consummated  as  to  lands  in  said  grant  on  the  south  side  of  said 
river.  Let  it  further  be  considered  how  consonant  it  would  have 
been  with  the  character  of  Cleeve,  had  he  been  the  man  that  worthy 
historians  have  pictured  him  to  be :  —  for  instance,  if,  as  he  has  been 
charged  with  doing,  had  he  profited  by  the  misfortunes  which  befell 
Gorges  on  the  outcome  of  the  revolution  in  England,  at  a  time  when 
Gorges  was  his  benefactor  and  was  helpless  for  making  a  defense  — 
how  strictly  consonant  would  it  have  been  with  such  a  character  to 
have  brought  the  not  over-scrupulously  reverend  gentleman  to  under- 
stand that  the  Deputy  President  of  Ligonia  would  not  permit  judg- 
ment to  be  rendered  in  a  court  of  the  province  relative  to  title  to  lands 
which  the  ould  Cleeve  claimed  was  in  him,  unless  to  confirm  title  in 
him.  But  nothing  of  the  kind  took  place.  The  Deputy  President 
was  as  honest,  just  and  upright  a  ruler  as  the  ould  Cleeve  wras  man, 
and  would  know  nothing  about  the  latter' s  title  to  land  unless  the 
ould  Cleeve  came  into  court  in  the  regular  wTa}r. 

Before  the  departure  of  the  Deputy  President  for  England  in 
the  year  1652,  the  colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay  discovered  that  its 
patent  was  quite  malleable  from  little  hammering,  was  much  inclined 
of  its  own  power  to  extend,  like  a  cankerous  growth,  its  boundaries 
that  were  tractile  but  not  elastic.  LTpon  the  death  of  Governor  Win- 
throp  the  colony  became  ambitious.  About  the  year  1650  the  patent 
began  to  extend  itself  around  the  bay.  As  the  colony  of  New 
Hampshire  had  been  annexed  in  1640,  the  stretching  process  began 
at  the  Piscataqua  river,  at  the  time  the  boundary  between  the  Bay 
colony  and  the  province  of  Maine  which  recognized  as  its  proprietor 
the  heir  of  Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges.  A  goodly  number  of  the  people 
who  had  settled  in  the  province,  were  Independents  in  religion  and 
had  come  from  the  Bay  colony.  The  Episcopalians,  adherents  of 
Gorges,  whose  ability  to  change  their  allegiance  when  to  their 
advantage  was  something  admirable,  were  not  constrained  by  con- 
science to  make  any  sacrifice  for  the  sake  of  their  proprietor,  at  a 
time  when  England  was  ruled  by  the  Commonwealth.  Their  show 
of  opposition  to  the  purpose  of  the  colony  was  the  feeblest  and  the 
cheapest  known,  that  of  a  protest,  in  which  Lawryer  Godfrey  joined, 
and  then  accepted  office  under  the  usurper.  Compared  with  what 
remained  to  be  done  in  the  stretching  line,  it  was  an  easy  task  to 
stretch  the  patent  of  the  Bay  colony  over  the  little  province  of  Maine. 
The  act  was  completed  in  1652.  But  its  power  in  the  line  noted  was 
simply  wonderful,  as  shown  by  the  way  in  the  year  1672  it  extended 
over  a  part  of  the  Duke  of  York's  province  adjoining  Ligonia  on  the 
east.  In  that  year,  one,  Munjoy,  was  employed  to  run  a  north  line 
of  the  colony's  patent,  which  he  did  in  accordance  with  the  direction 


GEORGE     CLEEVE  33 

of  its  authorities  as  to  their  pretension  as  to  its  northern  limit;  he 
then  informed  the  authorities  that  — 

"If  the  honored  commissioners  were  pleased  to  go  twenty  min- 
utes more  northerly  in  Merrimac  river,  it  would  take  in  all  the 
inhabitants  and  places  east  along  and  they  seem  much  to  desire  it." 
It  was  accordingly  done  and  said  inhabitants  were  "took  in." 

This  new  departure  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay  colony  meant 
trouble  for  the  Deputy  President.  So  formidable  an  antagonist  as  it 
was,  for  next-door  neighbor,  and  claiming  all  one  possesses,  necessa- 
rily meant  a  conflict.  Great  as  she  was,  she  moved  cautiously  when 
she  laid  hold  of  Ligonian  territory.  Right  keenly  did  she  fear  that 
old  aggressive,  active,  energetic  Deputy  President.  As  noted,  he 
was  in  England  in  the  year  1652;  he  returned  in  the  year  1653.' 
Before  his  return,  a  portion  of  the  people  of  Saco  recognized  the  jur- 
isdiction of  the  Bay  colony.  The  other  towns  in  the  province,  par- 
ticularly those  in  its  eastern  part,  faithfully  supported  the  Deputy 
President,  who  successfully  maintained  his  authority  until  the  year 
1658.  During  this  period  his  efforts  were  seconded  by  the  Episco- 
palians of  the  province  under  the  lead  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Robert  Jordan 
and  Henry  Jocelyn.  These  men  held  office  under  the  Ligonian  gov- 
ernment, were  assistants,  members  of  the  general  assembly,  and  were 
among  its  staunchest  supporters  in  these  days, 

It  is  pleasing  to  note  the  difference  in  the  character  of  the  oppo- 
sition by  the  Deputy  President  and  by  the  officials  of  Gorges'  prov- 
ince, to  the  claim  of  the  Bay  colony;  that  of  the  latter  was  like  the 
squeak  of  a  mouse  as  tabby  devours  it;  of  the  former  to  the  roar  of  a 
lion  upon  hearing  an  intruder  into  the  solitudes  of  his  retreat.  And 
the  intruder  paused  too,  for  six  years  did  nothing  more  than  pause, 
solicit,  implore, — never  threatened. 

First,  there  were  inquiries  into  the  title  of  each  by  the  respective 
claimants,  a  friendly  investigation  upon  disputed  points  and  the  inter- 
change of  several  letters,  all  of  which  took  up  a  great  deal  of  time. 
Finally,  in  the  year  1657,  the  Bay  colony  felt  warranted  in  issuing 
its  mandate  for  the  people  of  Ligonia  to  send  representatives  to  meet 
its  commissioners  at  York,  a  place  in  the  recently  sequestrated  prov- 
ince of  Maine.  The  mandate  was  ignored.  The  commissioners 
sought  to  make  themselves  terrible  by  trumpeting  forth  that  repre- 
sentatives should  be  sent  to  meet  them  in  Boston  in  October,  1657. 
In  lieu  of  the  people  sending  representatives,  the  aged  Deputy  Presi- 
dent, whose  forte  it  was  to  join  issue  with  an  opponent,  sent  a  letter 
to  the  general  court  with  the  information  of  "the  resolution  of  the 
inhabitants  to  deny  submission"  to  the  Bay  colony.  In  the  light 
thereof,  the  general  court  was  unanimous  in  the  opinion  that  it  was 
best  for  the  present  to  "surcease  any  further  prosecution"  of  its  claim. 

The  general  court  surceased  in  its  brow-beating  tactics  only; 
such  course  as  it  had  been  pursuing  availed  but  little  against  the 
indomitable  Cleeve.  It  next  adopted  a  policy  of  cajolery  to  seduce 
Cleeve's  following,  and  was  successful  in  its  purpose.  Cleeve  could 
be  stranded,  but  nothing  the  Bay  colony  could  hold  out  to  him  would 
make  him  unfaithful.  In  July,  1658,  the  people  of  Ligonia  submitted 
to  the  claim  of  the  Bay  colony.  As  has  been  noted,  the  people  of 
Saco  had  submitted  as  early  as  1652.  In  Saco  there  was  a  consider- 
able settlement  of  Independents;  others  of  the  same  persuasion  con- 


34  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

stituted  a  goodly  portion  of  the  settlers  in  the  several  towns  of  the 
province.  Nearly  all  of  them  were  immigrants  from  the  Bay  colony 
and  favored  its  pretension  in  that  the  province  of  Eigonia  was  a  part 
of  its  territory.  These  Independents  had  been  partisans  of  Cleeve  in 
his  contest  with  the  Gorges  faction.  The  latter  were  his  partisans 
in  his  contest  with  the  Bay  colony;  they  were  quite  all  Episcopalians, 
as  was  Rigby.  Their  leading  men  readily  deserted  Cleeve  in  1658, 
upon  the  promise  of  being  honored  by  office  and  the  exercise  of  local 
power.  Cleeve  for  years  had  successfully  played  off  Independent 
against  Episcopalian  and  maintained  Rigby's  government.  When 
both  parties  left  him  he  was  alone,  it  is  true,  but  he  had  performed 
his  duty;  to  try  and  do  more  in  behalf  of  Rigby  would  have  been 
futile.  He  himself  could  have  no  objections  on  religious  or  political 
grounds  to  the  government  of  the  Bay  colony,  for  with  its  people  on 
those  matters  he  was  in  full  accord.  In  the  face  of  these  considera- 
tions and  against  great  odds,  he  alone  had  maintained  the  Rigby  pro- 
prietorship by  his  tact.  When  he  submitted  to  the  rule  of  the  Bay 
colony  he  did  so  with  honor.     He  was  the  soul  of  honor. 

The  province  of  Eigonia  had  not  been  of  any  pecuniary  advan- 
tage to  Edward  Rigby;  perhaps,  after  his  experience  with  it  for  eight 
years,  with  its  incumbent  strife  and  wrorry,  he  may  have  considered 
as  a  bargain  the  relief  which  was  afforded  him  when  the  Bay  colony 
discovered  that  the  province  belonged  to  her  and  took  charge  of  it; 
and,  like  the  man  living  near  Michigan  city,  who  bartered  forty 
acres  of  land  for  a  calf  and  considered  that  he  had  doubled  his  profits 
by  deeding  the  stranger  an  eighty  in  lieu  of  a  forty,  Edward  Rigby 
would  have  thrown  in  by  the  way  of  lag-gniappe  another  such  prov- 
ince, if  he  had  another,  and  thus  doubled  his  relief,  had  the  Bay 
colony  taken  the  pains  to  secure  his  consent  to  the  transaction. 

Historians  writing  of  Cleeve  assume  that,  at  the  time  of  the 
change  of  government  in  1658,  he  had  lost  his  influence  and  was  run 
down  in  a  financial  way.  There  is  nothing  to  warrant  the  belief  that 
he  had  lost  his  political  prestige  further  than  that  on  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  new  government  he  was  not  appointed  one  of  the  associate 
judges.  He  was  not  wholly  overlooked,  for  he  was  appointed  one  of 
the  town  commissioners.  However,  the  associate  judgeships  were, 
it  is  hazarded,  turned  over  to  Jordan,  Jocelyn  and  other  Episco- 
palian lights  as  a  part  of  the  bargain  between  them  and  the  Bay 
colony  in  return  for  their  submission  to  its  claim;  to  their  tender 
mercies  Cleeve  was  to  look  for  justice.  Certain  it  is  that  Jordan  and 
Jocelyn  were  appointed  associate  judges.  When  these  same  judges 
in  1662  were  plotting  against  the  sovereignty  of  the  Bay  colony, 
to  whom  did  it  look  to  sustain  its  authority  at  Casco  and  the  adjoin- 
ing towns?  To  no  other  than  George  Cleeve.  In  1663  and  1664  he 
was  chosen  a  member  of  the  general  court,  which  latter  year  was  the 
last  during  his  life  that  the  province  of  Maine  was  governed  as  a  part 
of  the  Bay  colony.  Nor  is  there  but  little  to  warrant  the  belief  that 
he  was  in  financial  straits.  Of  his  large  holdings  in  real  estate  he 
had  retained  quite  all  until  1657,  except  the  tracts  which  he  had 
deeded  to  different  members  of  his  family.  In  the  year  1657,  he 
commenced  to  dispose  of  his  land  granted  to  him  by  Gorges.  Dur- 
ing that  year  and  the  next  he  sold  several  tracts  about  the  bay  prin- 
cipally to  parties  of  the  Bay  colony.     In  September,    1659,   Cleeve 


GEORGE    CLEEVE  35 

sold  his  homestead,  all  east  of  Clay  cove,  reserving  the  use  of  the 
house  and  cleared  lands  during  his  life,  and  by  the  end  of  the  follow- 
ing year  he  sold  the  remainder  (the  Hope  Allen  farm)  of  the  grant 
of  Gorges  to  him.  It  will  be  observed  that  he  had  disposed  of  that 
part  of  his  estate  claimed  by  Jordan;  that  he  made  no  disposition  of 
any  considerable  portion  of  it  until  the  danger  was  imminent  that  the 
Bay  colony  would  acquire  the  sovereignty  of  the  province  by  means 
of  a  deal  with  the  Episcopalian  settlers,  and  then  he  sold  —  to  whom? 
To  Independents  of  the  Bay  colony.  If  Jordan  plucked  anybody  he 
would  pluck  them.  There  is  no  evidence  that  he  had  squandered 
what  he  had  received  from  these  sales,  and  surely  he  was  as  well  off 
financially  with  the  proceeds  of  them  as  he  was  when  he  owned  the 
land,  as  he  probably  got  its  value.  The  Rigby  grants  to  him,  what- 
ever they  were,  he  still  retained. 

In  referring  to  the  course  of  Cleeve  while  Deputy  President, 
when  came  before  the  court  of  which  he  was  a  member,  the  proceed- 
ings whereby  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan  acquired  title  to  the  Trelawney 
estate,  the  editor  of  the  Trelawney  Papers  (Vol.  Ill,  Doc.  Hist,  of 
Me.,  pp.  382-3,  foot  note)    says:  — 

"Whatever  may  be  said  of  Cleeve  it  must  be  admitted  that  he 
showed  magnanimity  in  his  action  in  this  matter.  In  1648  when 
this  settlement  was  made,  Cleeve's  influence  must  have  been  consid- 
erable ;  yet  he  acted  in  favor  of  Jordan  who  had  always  been  inimi- 
cal to  him,  and  after  his  loss  of  influence,  pursued  him  piteously  and 
that,  too,  in  his  old  age." 

That  Jordan  piteously  pursued  Cleeve,  may  have  been  the  fact; 
but  an  account  of  the  pursuit  much  reminds  one  of  the  story  of  the 
hawk's  seizure  of  the  weasel,  in  the  matter  of  the  hawk's  willingness 
to  cry  quits.  There  were  other  matters  that  arose  to  occasion  Cleeve 
anxiety  at  about  the  time  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan  took  upon  himself  to 
reward,  in  his  peculiar  way,  Cleeve  for  his  magnanimity,  which  will 
be  mentioned  in  their  order.  It  is  gratifying  to  know  that  Cleeve 
fared  very  well  through  it  all, —  was  present  when  the  other  fellow 
toed  the  mark  lor  the  last  time. 

Under  the  laws  of  the  colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  in  some 
instances  the  land  in  a  town  which  had  not  been  granted  upon  the 
incorporation  of  the  town,  was  the  subject  of  grants  by  the  people 
thereof  through  the  townsmen  or  selectmen.  What  appears  to  have 
been  an  attempt  to  dispose  or  take  possession  of  property  of  Cleeve, 
land  which  he  claimed  to  own,  through  the  agency  of  the  people  to 
grant  land  and  privileges,  upon  Falmouth  becoming  incorporated  in 
1658,  was  engineered  by  Jordan.  A  proposition  was  made  by  him  to 
erect  a  mill  upon  the  Presumpscot  river  which  he  called  (out  loud, 
probably,  for  the  first  time  in  a  dozen  years)  Casco  river;  he  secured 
the  signatures  of  several  of  the  planters,  to  a  petition,  in  brief, 
expressing  their  consent  to,  and  approval  of,  his  scheme  to  build  the 
mill,  and  setting  forth  how  greatly  to  the  advantage  of  the  people  it 
would  be  to  have  a  mill  on  that  river.  The  people  who  thus  gave 
their  consent  and  approval,  with  two  exceptions,  lived  along  the 
Presumpscot  river  or  quite  ten  miles  therefrom  to  the  south  side  of 
Casco  river.  It  is  noticeable  that  all  were  inhabitants  of  Falmouth, 
and,  with  two  exceptions,  were  old  time  opponents  of  Cleeve.  It  is 
quite  certain  that  an  attempt  was  made  to  grant  lands  belonging  to 


36  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Cleeve,  or  which  he  claimed,  as  the  like  attempt  was  made  by  the 
people  residing  in  other  towns  in  the  province  to  grant  the  land  of 
large  land-owners  among  them  respectively.  A  committee  appointed 
by  the  general  court  to  investigate  the  complaints  of  such  land- 
owners, reported  under  date  of  October  25,  1660,  upon  the  complaint 
of  Cleeve,  that  the  evidence  to  show  title  in  him  to  the  laud  in  ques- 
tion, was  not  adduced  before  the  committee;  that  "the  townsmen  of 
Falmouth  be  ordered  not  to  dispose  of  auj'  lauds  which  are  within  his 
grants  or  patents  until  this  court  takes  further  orders."  So  Cleeve 
thus  triumphed  in  this  matter. 

In  the  county  court  of  the  county  (York),  in  the  year  1659, 
Cleeve  was  defeated  in  an  action  he  brought  against  one  Francis 
Small,  to  recover  land,  which  Cleeve  claimed  was  included  in  a 
grant  to  him,  probably  by  Rigby.  At  the  same  term  Thomas 
Elbridge  living  at  Pemaquid,  Maine,  and  Cleeve  were  parties  to  sev- 
eral actions.  One,  in  which  the  latter  was  plaintiff,  was  for  five  hun- 
dred pounds  on  account.  Elbridge  made  no  defense.  A  person  who 
is  creditor  for  so  large  a  sum  as  this  action  was  brought  to  recover, 
certainly  was  not  in  destitute  circumstances.  Cleeve  was  defendant 
in  three  actions  brought  by  Elbridge,  but  made  no  defense.  One 
was  to  recover  in  debt  for  fifty  pounds ;  a  second  was  for  "defama- 
tion" in  which  judgment  was  given  for  the  plaintiff  for  the  sum  of 
fifty  pounds ;  the  third  was  for  assault  and  battery  "for  striking  of 
him;"  judgment  was  for  costs.  Cleeve  could  have  felt  flattered  at 
being  mulcted  in  a  fine,  when  quite  ninety  years  of  age,  for  success- 
fully chastizing  a  gentleman  from  the  province  of  the  Duke  of  York. 
Possibly,  too,  the  defamation  of  said  gentleman  consisted  in  his  hav- 
ing been  trounced  by  a  man  old  enough  to  have  been  his  grandfather. 
Defamation  of  character  in  those  days,  particularly  in  regions  where 
the  science  of  the  law  was  in  so  raw  a  state  as  it  was  at  that  period  in 
the  province  of  Maine,  consisted  of  anything  said  or  done  by  one 
about  or  to  another  which  displeased  him.  Elbridge  was  the  son  of 
an  early  settler  at  Pemaquid.  The  dealings  between  Elbridge  and 
Cleeve  were  perhaps  in  commodities.  There  is  no  other  information 
than  given  by  the  records  of  these  actions  concerning  their  transac- 
tions or  difficulties.  That  relating  to  the  action  for  defamation,  shows 
that  the  court  also  directed  that  Cleeve  should  make  an  acknowledge- 
ment of  his  offense  when  the  court  shall  appoint,  which  it  ordered  to 
be  in  presence  of  the  court  and  at  Casco  the  next  public  town  meeting. 
Two  of  the  five  judges  of  the  county  court,  county  of  York,  into 
which  was  erected  the  portion  of  Maine  deemed  to  be  a  part  of  Mass- 
achusetts Bay  colon}',  were  Robert  Jordan  and  Henry  Jocelyn;  the 
others  were  of  the  Gorges  faction.  It  is  quite  apparent  that  Cleeve 
might  well  expect  from  the  court,  the  bent  of  two  of  whose  judges  it 
was  to  humiliate  and  harry  their  old  time  opponent,  nothing  less  than 
the  annoyances  he  put  up  with.  There  is  no  better  illustration  of 
their  determination  in  this  matter,  and  of  the  crude  notions  of  law7  pre- 
vailing, than  is  afforded  by  the  following  incident:  At  this  term  of 
court  as  the  record  reads —  "Mr.  George  Cleeves  presented  for  deny- 
ing to  vote  for  magistrate  and  saying  that  if  the  people  would  vote  for 
Mis  Clark  to  be  a  witch  he  would  vote." 

In  his  biography  of  Cleeve,  Mr.  Baxter's  version  as  to  the  import 
of  the  foregoing  is,  that  Cleeve  declared  he  would  as  soon  vote  for 


GEORGE     CLEEVE  37 

Miss  Clark  to  be  a  witch  as  to  vote  for  Jordan  to  be  a  magistrate. 
And  for  making  this  statement  Cleeve  was  indicted. 

Jordan  was  a  judge  of  the  court  until  sometime  in  the  year  1662. 
It  is  hardly  thought  that  the  animus  of  this  man  toward  Cleeve,  as 
consonant  with  his  character,  whether  as  a  judge  or  in  other  capacity, 
would  only  permit  him  to  charge  Cleeve  or  incite  others  to  bring 
charges  against  him,  with  or  for  anything  less  than  he  wTas  guilty;  at 
most,  the  court  record  furnishes  nothing  worse  than  that  Cleeve 
was  charged  with  assault  and  battery.  Of  little  purpose  is  all  we 
read  in  the  record  of  this  court  to  prove  that  he  was  turbulent,  quar- 
relsome or  litigious.  We  now  have  twenty-eight  years  of  his  life 
before  us  and  by  the  evidence  it  furnishes,  not  only  is  it  disproved 
that  he  was  either  turbulent,  quarrelsome  or  litigious,  but  also  it  is 
proved  per  contra. 

The  record  of  this  term  of  court  tells  us  yet  another  tale;  and,  at 
this  point  it  is  apropos  for  relating. 

Cleeve  promptly  brought  action  against  Jordan  for  disturbing  his 
possession  on  the  Neck,  for  asserting  title  thereto  under  the  Trelawney 
grant.  Of  necessity  he  had  to  bring  the  action  in  the  court,  of  which 
Jordan,  himself,  was  one  of  the  judges,  and  the  result  was  what  was 
to  be  expected  of  that  tribunal.  Also  Cleeve  was  compelled  to  com- 
mence more  than  one  suit  against  Jordan,  in  all  of  which  he  was 
defeated.  It  will  serve  no  purpose  to  give  any  further  account  of  the 
proceedings  than  to  relate  one  or  two  matters  connected  therewith  of 
particular  import.  In  these  several  actions  brought  by  Cleeve,  judg- 
ment for  costs  was  given  for  Jordan;  execution  issued  and  levy  was 
made  upon  Cleeve's  household  goods,  and  possession  was  taken  of 
his  house  to  satisfy  the  judgment  which  was  for  a  small  amount.  It 
may  be  wondered  at  that,  unless  he  were  in  sad  straits  financially, 
Cleeve  would  have  suffered  matters  to  proceed  so  far.  We  have  his 
account  of  the  affair  which  will  appear  at  the  proper  place. 

It  would  be  a  tight  corner  that  George  Cleeve  could  not  squeeze 
out  of.  Over  a  quarter  of  a  century  prior  to  the  time  we  are  now 
writing  of,  this  same  Jordan  wrote  Trelawney  that  Cleeve  "is  wel 
nigh  able  to  deceave  the  wisest  brain."  There  was  no  occasion  to 
work  deception  then  nor  wTas  there  any  occasion  to  practice  it  in 
1660  and  later.  Straightforward  work  will  most  surely  confound  an 
opponent  of  the  Jordan  stamp,  which,  with  a  lucky  turn  of  the  wheel 
of  fortune  that  always  came  for  the  ould  Cleeve  at  the  opportune 
time,  will  occasion  the  reverend  gentleman  to  have  more  business 
to  attend  in  Boston  and  elsewhere  than  will  well  serve  his  present 
purposes.  No  appeal  would  lie  from  the  county  court's  judgment. 
Cleeve  desired  but  a  hearing  before  an  impartial  court;  he  rightly 
attributed  his  failure  to  win  his  cause  to  Jordan  being  one  of  the 
judges.  Though  he  had  no  right  of  appeal  he  had  the  right  to 
petition  for  redress  the  great  and  holy  general  court  of  the  colony 
of  Massachusetts  Bay,  and  this  he  did  do,  on  May  24,  1661.  Jordan 
did  not  appear  before  the  committee  of  the  general  court  appointed 
to  investigate  the  matter.  Cleeve  again  petitioned  the  general  court 
probably  in  the  fall  of  1662.  That  portion  of  the  petition  of  material 
interest  reads  :  — 

"Thirdly.  Mr.  Robert  Jordan,  having  recovered  the  said  action 
against  me,  takes  forth  the  executive  against  me  for  it,  as  also  for 


38  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

the  cost  of  the  court  aforesaid,  all  of  which  with  charges  extending 
did  amount  unto  the  sum  of  17  pounds  or  thereabouts,  as  appears  by 
the  constable's  testimony,  who  levied  it  on  my  house  and  household 
goods  and  cow. 

Fourthly.  Mr.  Robert  Jordan,  having  soe  recovered  and 
extended  as  aforesaid,  notwithstanding  did  not  expel  me  my  house 
nor  took  possession  of  it,  but  took  my  word  and  engagement  to  pay 
him  the  just  sum  due  to  him  by  virtue  of  the  said  judgments,  which 
accordingly  I  did  pay  unto  him.  Notwithstanding  which  I  having 
given  him  under  my  hand  that  the  house  and  goods  should  remain 
as  his  till  the  sum  were  paid.  And  though  I  paid  it  fully,  yet  at  a 
court  of  Associates  (county  court)  in  March  last  (himself  being  one 
of  the  Associates)  he  sued  me  again  for  delivery  of  my  house,  goods 
and  cow  and  recovered  against  me,  and  hath  taken  them  from  me 
and  holds  them,  the  house  being  prized  but  at  8  pounds  which  but  a 
little  before  cost  me  60  pounds. 

Sixthly.  At  the  same  court  of  Associates  in  March  last,  having 
again  recovered  my  house,  cow,  bed  and  bolster  and  bed  clothes,  my 
brewing  kettle,  pot  and  other  goods,  obtains  an  execution  (on  another 
judgment)  directed  to  the  constable's  deputy  to  possess  him  the  said 
Jordan  of  the  said  house  and  goods,  and  commanded  the  constable's 
deputy  —  being  his  own  creature  —  to  throw  out  all  my  other  goods, 
as  apparel,  chests,  trunks  and  provisions,  out  of  doors,  who  so  acted  to 
the  spoiling  and  breaking  of  many  of  my  things,  and  whereby  I  lost 
much  of  my  goods  and  writings  and  apparel  of  my  wife's  and  many 
other  things,  to  my  damage  more  than  one  hundred  pounds  sterling. 
And  more  to  vex  and  grieve  me,  he  brought  with  him  one  of  his  own 
men  to  assist  the  constable's  deputy,  who  was  stark  drunk,  taking 
my  kettle  and  pott  being  full  or  worte  for  beere  ready  to  tun  up,  and 
threw  it  about  the  house  and  carried  away  the  said  kettle  and  pot 
and  detaineth  them  to  this  day,  being  contrary  to  the  law  in  such 
cases  provided.  And  further  to  increase  my  grief  he  requested  his 
drunken  man  (perhaps  John  Guy)  and  deputy  constable  to  go  into 
my  wife's  chamber  where  she  was  laid  on  her  bed  and  very  sick,  who 
in  a  barbarous  manner  pulls  her  from  off  her  bed  and  takes  her  bed 
from  under  her  and  the  bed  clothes  and  carries  all  away,  my  wife 
being  no  less  than  four  score  years  and  seven  years  of  age ;  and  all 
this  done  after  a  warrant  of  attachment  was  served  upon  the  said 
house,  goods  and  cow  by  said  deputy  constable  under  the  hand  of 
Mr.  Edward  Rishwrorth,  one  of  the  associates  requiring  the  said 
house  and  goods  to  be  responsible  to  answer  my  action  of  review  to 
be  tried  at  the  next  court  of  Associates,  where,  in  truth  I  have  but 
small  hopes  of  good  success  in  my  suits  against  him,  he  being  one  of 
them  and  one  that  boldly  said,  let  them  if  they  durst,  find  anything 
against  him.  My  suspicion  being  the  greater  for  that  I  proved  at  the 
last  court  that  I  had  paid  Mr.  Jordan  twenty  pounds  towards  the  two 
executions  to  purchace  my  peace  for  the  present,  until  I  might  by 
some  review  or  complaint  redress  my  wrong,  for  all  of  which  I  had  no 
allowance  by  any  order  of  court,  *  *  *  so  that  Mr.  Jordan  detaineth 
from  me  wrongfully  my  goods  and  two  cows,  being  all  the  cattle  I 
had  for  my  subsistence  for  the  present,  and  hath  proffered  to  sell  my 
house  to  any  that  would  buy  it,  and  all  this  for  the  purpose  to  starve 
and  ruin  me  and  my  family." 


GEORGE    CLEEVE  39 

The  foregoing  is  one  of  the  principal  sources  of  information 
about  Cleeve  that  we  have,  and  many  are  the  deductions  that  have 
been  drawn  from  his  statements  contained  in  this  petition.  If 
accepted  literally,  the  conclusion  is  warranted  that  Cleeve  was  in 
very  straitened  conditions  financially.  But  it  is  nothing  more  than 
a  specimen  of  very  good  pleading,  wherein  the  absence  of  order  and 
justice  is  well  kept  to  the  forefront,  to  invoke  the  interference  in  behalf 
of  the  pleader,  the  authority  of  the  general  court.  In  the  proper 
connection  is  mentioned  all  the  depredations  committed  upon  him  by 
Jordan  in  the  name  of  the  law.  Not  more  of  particulars  are  omitted 
by  him  in  this  instance  than  did  Jordan  omit  to  set  forth  in  his 
account  against  the  Trelawney  estate,  which,  among  many  items, 
included  an  unpaid  legacy  of  some  odd  pounds  to  Winter  bequeathed 
to  him  by  Trelawney.  Cleeve  dwells  upon  the  wanton  waste  of  the 
beer  "ready  to  tun  up."  The  loss  of  the  beer  was  what  sorely 
grieved  him  ;  little  did  he  care  for  its  value,  but  well  did  he  know 
how  the  enumeration  of  such  act  of  mere  spoliation  at  the  close  of  his 
well  stated  causes  of  action,  coupled  with  the  relation  of  the  outrage 
upon  his  old,  helpless  wife,  would  excite  inquiry  as  to  the  actual  con- 
ditions, and  afford  him  some  measure  of  relief  and  justice. 

Upon  reading  that  Jordan  was  successful  in  the  suit  with  Cleeve, 
the  desire  arises  to  know  upon  what  evidence  Jordan  could  have 
relied  to  show  title  in  himself  to  laud  which  Cleeve  was  adjudged 
entitled  to  by  a  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  nearly  twenty  years 
before.  It  will  be  remembered  that  Jordan  claimed  title  through 
Trelawney.  One  of  the  instruments  upon  which  he  relied  to  give 
color  to  his  pretension  that  the  Neck  was  included  in  the  Trelawney 
grant,  was  a  certificate  by  the  judges  made  in  1642  when  Cleeve  was 
in  England,  concerning  whom  Winter  wrote  Trelawney  that  they 
were  about  to  view  the  lauds  in  question  and  whom  he  would  attend 
"God  willinge."      It  reads:  — 

"That  which  Mr.  Cleeves  and  the  jury  (trial  of  Cleeve  vs.  Win- 
ter, 1640)  took  for  Casco  river  to  be  but  a  creek  into  which  we  saw 
but  one  little  brook  to  run  ;  but  the  other  (Presumpscot  river)  which 
Mr.  Trelawney  takes  for  Casco  river  to  be  the  river.  It  hath  its  issue 
out  of  a  great  pond  named  Sabadock  ;  the  river  is  of  a  reasonable 
depth  and  breadth  ;  by  relation  of  the  ancient  inhabitants  and  natives 
ever  to  have  been  called  Casco  river."  The  certificate  was  signed  by 
Thomas  Gorges,  Henry  Jocelyn  and  Richard  Vines, —  with  what 
reluctance  by  the  first  named,  we  can  fairly  well  imagine. 

In  this  connection  is  recalled  that  Sir  Ferdinando  had  sold  the 
land  on  the  Neck  to  Cleeve  in  1636;  in  1642  he  testified  (by  his 
letter  to  his  commissioners),  in  effect,  that  the  Neck  was  included  in 
the  grant  to  Trelawney  (of  Cape  Elizabeth)  by  the  Plymouth  com- 
pany. Yet  in  1635  Trelawney  had  purchased  from  Sir  Ferdinando 
land  lying  on  the  coast  northerly  of  said  grant  and  between  it  and 
Casco  river,  and  it  is  northerly  of  the  river  that  the  Neck  lies.  Sir 
Ferdinando  and  Trelawney  had  determined  the  matter  to  their  ends 
and  purposes,  in  England,  and  the  former  had  issued  his  orders  to 
his  commissioners.     They  reckoned  without  their  opponent. 

If,  in  the  light  of  the  information  which  the  foregoing  certificate 
furnishes  as  to  the  design  of  Sir  Ferdinando  and  Robert  Trelawney, 
M.  P.,  to  deprive  Cleeve  of  his  land  by  a  device  of  a  judicial  proceed- 


40  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ings  to  accord  with  the  proprietor's  instruction  to  that  end,  to  his 
commissioners,  whatever  the  facts,  there  can  blame  rest  upon  George 
Cleeve  for  the  course  taken  by  him  to  circumvent  Gorges  and 
Trelawney,  it  will  be  confessed  that  no  better  proof  is  obtainable  of 
his  honorability  in  the  matter.  Sir  Ferdinando  had  quite  dictatorial 
powers  conferred  upon  him  by  charter  from  the  crown  for  the  govern- 
ing of  his  province  of  Maine,  and  in  this  instance  he  exercised  them 
by  directing  to  be  set  aside  a  judgment  of  a  court  of  the  province, 
and  substituting  in  lieu  of  judges  his  mandatories,  and  in  lieu  of  law 
his  positive  commands,  to  further  his  own  and  Robert  Trelawney's 
private  interests.  To  the  honor  of  Thomas  Gorges,  let  it  be  recorded, 
that  he  refused  to  act  as  a  mandatory  until  he  received  the  most 
positive  direction;  then  acted  thereupon,  and  left  the  province. 

One  of  the  effects  consequent  upon  the  failure  of  Cleeve  to  win 
his  cause  of  action  against  Jordan,  was  to  give  rise  to  feelings  of 
unrest  and  disquietude  upon  the  part  of  the  grantees  of  Cleeve  rela- 
tive to  the  validity  of  their  title  to  the  land  which  they  had  purchased 
from  him;  in  one  or  two  instances  parties  secured  deeds  from  Jordan 
to  such  lands.  The  grantees  of  Cleeve  in  May,  1660,  petitioned  the 
general  court  for  some  measure  of  relief.  About  the  same  time  the 
followers  of  Jordan  forwarded  to  the  general  court  a  protest  to  the 
selection  of  Cleeve  and  another  to  some  representative  capacity  by 
the  general  court,  in  which  it  was  recited  that  Cleeve  had  been 
accused  of  forgery  and  was  on  record  for  breach  of  oath.  This  state- 
ment clearly  had  reference  to  the  proceedings  in  the  court  held  at 
Saco  in  1645  to  give  Vines  a  certificate  of  good  character.  Mr. 
Willis,  the  historian,  observed  that  the  protest  showed  on  what  terms 
Cleeve  lived  with  a  part  of  the  settlers.  It  can  but  be  wondered  at 
that  Cleeve  managed  to  live  with  them  on  any  terms.  Did  the  peti- 
tion show  the  terms  on  which  Jordan  lived  with  the  signers  thereto? 
The  latter  were  Cleeve's  neighbors,  settlers  on  the  Neck  and  on  land 
bordering  Casco  bay.  It  is  noticeable  that  not  a  person  who  signed 
the  petition,  signed  the  protest  of  the  Jordan  faction.  Thus  there  is 
instanced  the  state  of  affairs,  the  fury  of  factional  and  personal  strife 
which  followed  the  orderly  and  peaceful  government  when  the  people 
were  ruled  by  the  aged  Deput}'  President.  Right  well  does  the 
changed  condition  demonstrate  the  firmness  and  justice  of  George 
Cleeve  as  a  governor  and  his  capability  and  strength  of  character 
and  purpose  as  a  man. 

It  is  quite  clear  that  the  petition  and  protest  were  but  moves  on 
the  part  of  Cleeves  and  Jordan  respectively,  in  their  legal  contest. 
No  change  in  civil  conditions  or  property  rights  had  taken  place  as 
the  outcome  of  the  decision  of  the  court  of  associates,  or  of  the  peti- 
tion or  protest,  and  thus  things  stood  in  very  bad  state  when  the 
eventful  year  of  1662  runs  its  course.  Charles  II  is  on  the  throne 
now,  and  loyal  Joeelyn  and  Jordan  imagine  a  great  future  in  store 
for  themselves.  During  that  year  an  effort  is  made  against  the 
authority  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay  colony.  At  the  head  of  the 
opposition  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  province  are  the  two,  and  their 
supporters  in  Casco  without  exception  are  the  signers  of  the  protest. 
Their  purpose  was  to  set  up  a  government  under  the  proprietorship 
of  Sir  Ferdinando's  heir.  Thus  Fortune  plays  into  the  hand  of 
George  Cleeve.     In  that  year  he  was  elected  a  commissioner  for  Fal- 


GEORGE     CLEEVE  41 

mouth  and  his  neighbor  and  fellow-partisan,  George  Munjoy,  is 
elected  judge  of  the  associate  court.  For  the  first  time  since  its 
organization  that  court  is  not  controlled  by  Jordan  and  his  partisans. 

Trouble  ahead  there  is  sure  enough  for  the  Massachusetts  Bay 
colony,  and  to  whom  does  it  look  to  maintain  its  authority  in  the 
province  of  Maine  —  York  county  as  it  is  called?  To  whom,  but  to 
George  Cleeve.  Past  the  ninetieth  year  of  his  age  he  is  now  prob- 
ably, but  as  active  and  keen  and  alert  as  in  the  prime  of  life.  What 
an  interesting  time  the  reverend  gentleman  will  have  when  Cleeve 
gets  his  guns  into  place  all  along  the  line!  Plenty  of  time  will  he 
have  to  meditate  in  silence,  to  calculate  the  value  of  "beer  ready  to 
tun  up."  Not  only  disloyalty  to  Massachusetts  Bay  colony  but  also 
slandering  its  divines,  is  the  reverend  gentleman  guilty  of  and  must 
answer  for. 

Cleeve  fully  advised  the  authorities  of  the  Bay  colony  of  the 
movements  and  plans  of  the  partisans  of  Gorges.  Under  date  of 
November  24,  1662,  he  wrote  them  of  the  furtherance  of  their  plans 
to  such  perfection  as  the  issuance  of  appointment  to  office  of  people 
in  the  several  towns,  in  particular  the  appointment  of  John  Guy  as 
constable,  whose  commission  by  accident  came  into  the  possession 
of  Cleeve;  that  he.  himself,  had  read  to  the  congregation  at  Casco, 
the  order  of  the  general  court  and  how  at  other  places  where  the 
partisans  of  Gorges  were  in  the  ascendency,  its  order  had  been  sup- 
pressed, and  in  lieu  thereof  had  been  read  the  king's  letter  to  Gorges 
upon  which  was  founded  the  authority  of  Jocelyn  and  others  to 
organize  another  government  and  set  up  the  authority  of  Gorges  as 
proprietor  and  of  themselves  as  magistrates  under  his  appointment. 
Well  does  he  know  the  vantage  ground  of  the  Bay  colony  in  having 
its  authority  established  and  recognized  in  the  province.  So,  espe- 
cially does  he  call  attention  to  the  necessity  of  having  a  full  set  of 
officers  duly  sworn,  of  having  the  full  number  of  judges  of  the  asso- 
ciate court  duly  sworn:  that  there  are  two  judges  in  open  rebellion;  that 
Mr.  Munjoy,  the  new  member,  has  not  been  sworn, —  must  lie  sworn 
for  there  may  be  great  need  of  a  court,  he  states.  "Now  I  desire  to 
know  whether  I  may  not  administer  the  oath  unto  him,"  are  his 
exact  words;  and  cannot  there  be  two  persons  appointed  as  judges  in 
lieu  of  the  rebellious  two?  Certainly  Cleeve  does  not  forget  the 
reverend  gentleman  of  whom  he  writes,  will  probably  with  Jocelyn, 
"come  to  our  town  to  see  what  they  can  do  there,  but  my  care  shall 
be  to  defeate  there  purposes  in  what  I  may."  This  much  only  for 
Jordan,  for  Jocelyn  is  the  active  one,  is  doing  and  saying  many 
things  for  a  purpose.  Of  his  talk  worth  the  relating  is  that  "two 
great  friggots"  are  to  be  sent  by  the  king  to  compel  the  colony  to 
yield  the  province  to  Gorges;  "but"  writes  Cleeve,  "I  believe  the 
ships  are  not  yet  built."  This  long  letter  he  closes  with  another 
item  concerning  Jocelyn;  that  he  "doth  trumpet  abroad  that  there 
are  many  discontented  in  Boston  and  to  the  westward,  about  the 
king's  letter;"  that  is,  Jocelyn  seeks  to  impress  the  people  of  the 
province  with  the  view  that  the  people  of  the  Bay  colony  are  much 
divided  on  the  question  of  retaining  possession  of  the  province  of 
Maine.  Accordingly  Cleeve  admonishes  the  authorities  to  be  on 
their  guard,  as  Jocelyn  is  to  "raise  a  faction  amongst  us  if  not 
tymely  prevented.   *  *  *  Who  knoweth  how  great  a  flame  a  littell  fire 


42  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

maj'  kindell?"  Thus  he  warns  the  officials  of  the  Bay  colony 
against  the  danger  and  assures  them  that  he  will  maintain  their 
government  in  the  province. 

The  general  court  at  once  took  steps  to  squelch  the  rebellion  in 
Maine.  Jocelyn  and  other  leaders  were  arrested  for  renouncing 
their  allegiance  to  the  Bay  colony.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan  was  deemed 
guilty  of  other  offenses.  He  was  an  Episcopalian  clergyman,  was 
outspoken  in  his  opposition  to  the  Independent  church  and  denounced 
in  unsparing  terms  the  saints,  divines,  and  the  civil  officials  of  the 
Bay  colony  —  greater  crimes  in  the  estimation  of  said  officials  and 
ministers  than  were  his  acts  of  rebellion.  At  the  July  term  of  the 
court  in  1662,  he  was  tried  on  six  indictments:  for  saying  that  Rev. 
John  Cotton  (dead  for  twenty  years)  was  a  liar,  had  died  with  "a  lie 
in  his  mouth,"  had  gone  "to  hell  with  a  pack  of  lies;"  for  calling 
the  governor  of  the  Bay  colony  a  rogue,  and  others  of  its  officials 
"traitors  and  rebels  against  the  king;"  for  "swearing  commonly  by 
the  eternal  God;"  the  fourth  charge  was  for  "breach  of  oath  of  a  free- 
man" and  of  fidelity  taken  to  the  government  of  the  Bay  colony,  as 
to  which  offense  the  record  of  the  court  reads — "Mr.  Jordan  his 
actions  make  manifest  the  truth  of  this  charge."  Also  he  was  tried 
for  being  "an  usual  liar  and  for  raising  and  fomenting  lies,"  and  the 
court  record  reads — -"Proved."  Among  the  witness  against  him 
were  George  Cleeve  and  Anthony  Brackett.  To  Boston  was  taken  the 
reverend  gentleman  and  lodged  in  jail.  The  punishment  was  not  new 
to  him,  for  he  was  confined  in  the  jail  at  Boston  in  the  year  1654.  It 
has  not  been  learned  what  was  his  supposed  offense  or  where  he  had 
committed  it;  in  1654  he  was  a  citizen  of  L,igonia. 

With  Jordan  in  jail  and  Cleeve  a  member  of  the  general  court, 
there  was  a  prospect  of  the  latter  securing  some  measure  of  relief  on 
his  petition,  from  the  judgments  rendered  against  him  in  the  county 
court,  of  which  Jordan,  at  the  time,  was  one  of  its  judges.  Fast  and 
furious  were  the  blows  which  the  ould  Cleeve  had  struck.  Jordan 
had  met  with  about  the  same  success  as  had  other  persons  in  attacks 
on  Cleeve.  As  to  what  was  the  relief  Cleeve  secured  on  his  petition 
there  is  no  certainty;  it  appears  that  the  matters  in  difference 
between  him  and  Jordan,  were  referred  by  the  general  court  to  the 
county  court  for  further  proceedings;  the  records  of  the  county  court 
do  not  disclose  their  outcome;  the  records  for  the  July  term  in  1664, 
held  at  York,  show  pending  between  Cleeve  and  Jordan  two  actions; 
one  brought  by  Cleeve  for  damages,  the  other  by  Jordan  "for  detain- 
ing a  hog."  In  each  suit  there  was  default  by  both  parties.  It  is 
inferred  that  they  had  adjusted  their  difference,  perhaps  by  arbitra- 
tion; that  Cleeve  secured  about  all  that  had  been  taken  from  him,  had 
recovered  damages  and  one  hog  in  excess.  Otherwise  the  writer  is 
unable  to  account  as  to  how  one  of  Jordan's  hogs  managed  to  get  on 
the  north  side  of  Casco  river.  No  further  attempt  was  made  by  Jor- 
dan to  contest  the  title  of  Cleeve  to  any  of  his  grants;  he  never  suc- 
ceeded in  acquiring  possession  of  any  land  on  the  Neck. 

Jordan,  Jocelyn  and  their  associates  had  miscalculated  in  that 
the  province  of  Maine  would  be  restored  to  the  heir  of  Gorges.  In 
1664,  commissioners  from  the"  king  arrived  in  Boston,  and  in  1665, 
they  organized  a  government  for  Maine  independent  of  the  Bay  colo- 
ny  and    Gorges,    who   were   rival   claimants    as   proprietors    of    the 


GEORGE    CLEEVE  43 

province;  this  government  lasted  until  1668,  when  it  collapsed  for 
want  of  partisans  to  sustain  it.  In  1665,  Cleeve  with  others  living  in 
Falmouth  signed  a  petition  to  the  crown  setting  forth  the  several  rea- 
sons why  the  government  by  the  Bay  colony  should  be  restored  over 
the  province  and  continued.  Certainly  there  was  no  catering  upon 
his  part  for  favors;  he  knew  not  how  to 'be  either  deceitful  or 
ungrateful.  However,  he  appears  to  have  gotten  along  fairly  well 
with  the  new  government;  his  purposes  were  well  served  by  any  gov- 
ernment that  let  him  alone  and  what  rightfully  belonged  to  him. 

Cleeve  had  a  servant,  Thomas  Greensledge  by  name.  Not  every 
person  about  the  bay  was  able  to  own  a  servant;  hence,  it  is  inferred 
that  Cleeve  was  not  so  straitened  in  a  financial  way  as  some  have 
thought  that  he  was.  This  Thomas,  probably,  was  a  convivial  soul, 
dearly  loved  his  aged  master  and  was  in  turn  loved  by  him;  had 
troubles  of  his  own,  did  this  Thomas,  which  im broiled  him  with  the 
officers  of  the  law,  as  is  to  be  inferred  from  the  following  taken  from 
the  records  of  the  term  of  court  held  in  July,  1666.  "Mr.  George 
Cleeves  binds  himself  in  a  bond  of  ^20  with  our  soverign  lord,  the 
king,  to  be  of  good  behavior  towards  all  men,  especially  towards  such 
who  at  any  time  shall  be  ordered  by  authority  to  inflict  punishment 
upon  his  servant,  Thomas  Greensledge,  for  his  disobedience  or 
disorders." 

No  person  who  had  befriended  Cleeve  even  in  his  old  age,  had 
cause  to  complain,  when  in  trouble,  of  indifference  on  his  part. 
Cleeve  was  past  the  age  of  ninety  years  in  1666.  It  is  probable  that 
he  had  shielded  Greensledge  from  arrest  on  some  trivial  charge; 
hence,  the  bond. 

Again  we  find  mention  of  his  name  in  the  records  of  the  Novem- 
ber term  of  the  court,  year  1666,  as  plaintiff  in  a  suit  to  recover  on 
account.  No  later  public  record  of  the  time  affords  further  informa- 
tion concerning  him.  It  is  thought  that  he  died  soon  after  Novem- 
ber, 1666. 

Cleeve,  perhaps,  was  irascible  and  quick  tempered,  and  on  occa- 
sions used  harsh  language.  It  was  his  lot  to  become  involved  in  the 
most  trying  of  all  affairs  connected  with  business,  that  of  intermina- 
ble litigation,  and  to  have  for  opponents  unscrupulous  men  of  means 
and  power.  That  he  should  lose  his  temper  and  soundly  berate  them 
and  theirs,  are  nothing  to  be  surprised  at.  He  was  inclined  to  live  in 
peace  with  his  neighbors,  and  he  had  a  very  quarrelsome  and  greedy 
few  among  them.  That  he  was  neither  quarrelsome  nor  litigious,  is 
shown  by  the  fact  that  for  the  twelve  years  under  Rigby's  proprietary 
government  he  was  at  peace  with  all  men,  and  during  those  years 
there  was  no  person  in  the  province  who  had  more  power  and  influ- 
ence than  he.  When  he  had  succeeded  in  establishing  the  govern- 
ment of  Rigby,  instead  of  harrying  his  opponents,  he  at  once  associ- 
ated Jordan  and  Jocelyn  with  him  in  governing  the  province.  Cleeve 
was  never  justly  charged  with  deserting  a  friend,  nor  is  it  true  that 
he  was  treacherous  or  ungrateful.  On  the  contrary,  he  was  entirely 
trustworthy  and  honorable  in  all  his  dealings. 

As  a  specimen  of  what  Cleeve  could  do  in  the  line  of  berating, 
the  following  is  submitted:  In  1663,  one  Francis  Small  was  indicted 
for  saying  "in  open  court  that  Mr.  George  Cleeve  was  a  traitor  & 
that  he  would  prove  that  sd  Cleeve  sayd  that  ye  king  was  an  Athist, 


11  BRACKETT    GENEALOGY 

unmed  wretch  in  hell,  with  other  uncivil  speeches." 
I„  t.'.  the  court  one  can  read-  -  "It  was  proved  in  court 

CharlesI  was  "ye  king."     Thereisstill 

.shut   place  he  did   go.      Also  the  records  .show  that 

ted  that    Cleeve    should   "christianly  acknowl- 

vring  spoken    (some  eight  years  prior)   of  the 

John    Winter   as  a  drunken   woman,   before   the  court,   and 

Winter."     Action  was  brought   for  slander,  but 

We  know  his  life  full  well  from  the  time  he  came  to  America, 

1  and  noble  things  of  him,  we  can  reason- 

..    his  faults,  such   as  we  have  learned  of.     Of  his  earlier 

nothing  has  been  discovered.     He  was  prob- 

ol  fifty-five  years  when  he  came  to  America  in  1630. 

It  can  be  truthfully  said  ol  him  that  for  native  ability,  no  man  in 

the  ■  d  him:  for  honorabiUty  in  his  dealings  and  for 

principle  and  purpose,  no  man  in  the  province  was 

In  1883,  an  elegant  granite  monument  was  erected  to  the  mem- 
leeve,  on  the  eastern  slope  of    Munjoy    Hill  at  the 

rn  terminus  ol  Congress  street.  It  is  the  gift  of  Payson  Tucker, 
Esq.,  to  the  city  of  Portland. 

Two  hundred  fifty  years  ago,  near  its  site,  perhaps  could  be  seen 

.  dear  and  pleasant  day,  the  herculean  form  of  the  man  in  whose 

memory  the  monument  is  erected,  with  hand  shading  his  brow  as  he 

strained   his   vision   to  see  the  limits  of  his  vast  domain  which  bor- 

I  on  the  most  beautiful  of  all  of  the  island-gemmed  bays  on  the 
Maine.  In  the  present  time,  there  are  few  successive  minutes 
in  a  day  when  descendants  of  his  are  not  passing  over  its  wraters  to  and 
from  his  beloved  Casco.  As  they  glide  over  the  bay,  if  they  choose, 
they  can  see  where,  or  near  to  where,  he  stood  and  looking,  also  may 
honor  his  memory  with  a  thought.  Let  them  think  of  him  as  Port- 
lam',  settler.  If  to  this  they  object  because  the  distinction 
hance,  then  let  them  think  of  him  as  the  Deputy  President 
of  Ligonia.  Il  this  does  not  please  them  for  the  reason  that  the  hon- 
or was  but  the  gift  of  his  fellow-men.  then  let  them  think  of  him  as 
the  I  Cleeve  who   "would  be  tenant  to  never  a  man  in  New 

land." 

Christian  name  of  his  wife  was  Joan.      Nothing  is  known  as 
to  hi  try.      Prom  a  statement  made  by  her  husband,  it  appears 

that  she  w,r  even  years  old  in  1662.     Cleeve  had  one  child, 

th,  who  married  Michael  Mitton  about  1637,  in  which  year  it 
is  thought  that  he,  Cleeve's  wife  and  daughter  arrived  in  America. 
Mitton  came  from  a  very  ancient  and  honorable  family  in  England, 
win  ■  the  name  is  not  uncommon.     He  found  America  much 

to  his  lil  me  and  fish  there  were  in  abundance.     Xor  did  he 

miss  tin  -]„»rt  ol  relating  a  good  story,  as  the  following  shows: 

"One,  Mr.  Mitton.  relating  of  a  triton  or  merman  which  he  saw 

baj  .     The  gentleman  is  a  great  fowler  and  used  to  go  out 

with  a  small  canoe,   and    fetching  a  compass  about  a   small  island, 

thei  iany   islands  in  the  bay,  for  the  advantage  of  a  shot,  he 

untcrcd  with  a  triton.  who  laying  his  hand  upon  the  side  of  the 


GEORGE    CEEEVE  45 

canoe  had  one  of  them  chopped  off  with  a  hatchet  by  Mr.  Mitton, 
which  in  all  respects  was  like  the  hand  of  a  man.  The  triton  pres- 
ently sunk,  dying  the  water  with  his  purple  blood  and  was  seen  no 
more"  (see  Jocelyn's  Voyages). 

This  adventure  was  supposed  to  have  occurred  earlier  than  1639. 
During  that  year  it  was  related  to  the  tenderfoot  voyager,  John 
Jocelyn,  brother  of  Henry  Jocelyn  of  Black  Point,  with  sly  nods  and 
winks  to  the  others  present  who,  in  their  turn,  were  to  relate  similar 
yarns,  each  to  do  his  best  and  make  his  wonder  surpass  the  others; 
all  of  which  Jocelyn  faithfully  records  and  serves  to  his  readers  in 
a  chapter  "On  Wonders."  Not  the  least  of  them  is,  when,  on  the 
morning  of  September  24,  1639,  the  guest  parted  with  his  gentlemen 
friends  who  had  assembled  at  Richmond  island,  and  sailed  for  Massa- 
chusetts, thence  to  England,  and  Captain  Thomas  Wonerton  of  Pis- 
cataqua,  "drank  to  me  a  pint  of  kill  devil,  alias  rhum  at  a  draught." 
The  gentleman  of  the  triton  adventure  was  not  the  one  to  miss  the 
bout.  He  watched  the  "Fellowship"  on  which  stood  Jocelyn  waving 
his  farewell,  until  it  was  lost  to  his  view;  then  with  gun  and  canoe  he 
pursued  his  way  to  the  mouth  of  Casco  river  and  up  its  waters  he 
paddled  his  course  to  the  forest  shaded  cottage  on  its  bank. 

Mitton  was  a  large  land  owner.  In  May,  1650,  he  became  the 
owner  of  Peaks  island  under  a  grant  from  Alexander  Rigby,  and  in 
January,  1650,  of  one  hundred  acres  adjoining  his  dwelling  house 
which  Mitton  "had  possessed  for  ten  years."  Cleeve  deeded  to  him 
in  May,  165S,  a  tract  on  the  northeast  side  of  Casco  river  "to  begin 
at  the  now  dwelling  house  of  said  Mitton"  which  extended  to  Back 
cove  and  included  the  upper  portion  of  the  Neck.  These  several 
tracts  except  the  one  of  a  hundred  acres,  were  recovered  by  the  Mitton 
heirs,  and  include  the  portion  of  Portland  owned  by  the  Bracketts  in 
a  later  day.  As  early  as  February,  1651,  Cleeve  contemplated  the 
deeding  to  Mitton  of  all  his  large  estate  in  Falmouth  "now  in  posses- 
sion of  me  the  said  Cleeve  and  other  of  my  tenants;"  a  part  consider- 
ation was  that  Mitton  was  to  maintain,  provide  and  care  for  Cleeve 
and  his  wife.  At  the  time  Cleeve  had  parted  with  but  little  of  his 
land.  His  intention  was  not  only  to  confer  upon  Mitton  all  his  land, 
but  also  all  his  personal  property,  "cattle  as  well  as  cows  and  calves 
and  steers  and  swine,  young  and  old."  Cleeve  was  well  advanced  in 
years  and  looked  to  a  life  of  repose  for  the  remainder  of  his  days. 
However,  he  changed  his  plans  to  good  purpose  and  for  just  cause  it 
is  thought;  a  life  of  repose  he  never  led.  It  does  not  appear  that 
Cleeve  deeded  to  Mitton  any  considerable  portion  of  his  estate  until 
after  Falmouth  became  a  part  of  the  Bay  colony,  at  which  time 
Cleeve  disposed  of  quite  all  of  his  lands. 

There  has  been  considerable  discussion  as  to  where  was  Mitton's 
place  of  residence.  From  what  Mr.  William  Willis  wrote,  it  would 
appear  that  he  always  lived  on  the  Neck.  Other  evidence  shows  that 
he  resided  for  a  time  on  the  southerly  side  of  Casco  river,  on  the 
Widgery  farm  in  Cape  Elizabeth.  The  deed  to  Mitton  by  Rigby  in 
January.  1650,  of  land  adjoining  Mitton's  dwelling  house  which  he 
had  "occupied  for  ten  years,"  would  indicate  that  he  had  lived  on 
the  southerly  side  of  Casco  river  for  that  period.  Rigby  owned  no 
land  on  the  Neck,  hence  it  is  thought  that  Mitton  could  not  have 
dwelt  on  the  Neck  during  those  ten  years.     The  deed  of  one  hundred 


46  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

acres  which  he  made  to  Mitton  in  January,  1650,  was  not  at  Clark's 
point,  as  has  been  stated  by  some  writers,  but  was  on  the  southerly 
side  of  Casco  river.  Mitton  probably  had  lived  on  that  side  of  the  river 
on  land  claimed  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Jordan,  perhaps  a  tract  granted  to 
Mitton  by  Cleeve  as  agent  for  Rigby.  In  August  1660,  Mitton  released 
to  Jordan  all  claims  to  land  which  he  had  on  the  southerly  side  of  the 
river,  in  consideration  of  Jordan  releasing  such  title  to  him  as  Jordan 
claimed  to  have  in  lands  on  the  Neck  deeded  by  Cleeve  to  Mitton. 
However,  it  is  thought  that  about  1658,  when  Cleeve  deeded  to  Mitton 
the  large  tract  on  the  upper  part  of  the  Neck,  Mitton  removed  to 
that  tract  to  reside.  By  deposition  made  March  9,  1 731-2,  Josiah 
Wallis,  then  of  Gloucester,  Mass.,  formerly  of  Falmouth,  Me.,  age 
seventy  years,  stated  that  about  fifty-three  or  fifty-four  years  ago  he 
"very  well  remembers  a  certain  dwelling  house  on  Sandy  Point  on 
the  northern  side  of  Fore  river  in  said  Falmouth,  in  which  Thomas 
Brackett  dwelt,  which  was  said  formerly  to  be  the  house  of  Michael 
Mitton,  and  I  was  very  well  acquainted  with  the  bounds  of  the  said 
Michael  Mitton's  land  in  Falmouth  *  *  *   ." 

Mitton  was  probably  an  Episcopalian.  Under  Gorges'  proprie- 
tary government,  established  in  1639,  he  was  appointed  to  the  office 
of  constable  for  Falmouth.  He  died  between  August  25,  1660,  and 
October  7,  1661.  His  widow  married  a  Mr.  Harvey  of  whom  little  is 
known.  She  lived  for  a  time  in  Boston;  about  1680  resided  with  her 
daughter,  Elizabeth  Clark,  and  died  in  1681. 

Mitton,  by  his  wife,  Elizabeth  Cleeve,  had  five  daughters  and  one 
son.  Ann,  who  married  Captain  Anthony  Brackett,  was  probably 
the  oldest;  in  1631,  as  a  witness,  she  signed  a  deed  made  by  her 
grandfather,  George  Cleeve,  to  her  father.  Sarah  married  James 
Andrews,  born  in  Saco  in  1635,  son  of  Samuel;  he  was  of  London 
and  died  in  1638;  his  widow  married  Arthur  Macworth  of  Falmouth. 
James  survived  his  wife  Sarah,  and  married  a  second  time;  during 
the  Indian  wars  he  removed  to  Boston;  his  son  James  married  in 
Boston,  his  cousin,  Elinor  Brackett,  daughter  of  Capt.  Anthony  and 
wife  Ann  Mitton,  and  died  before  1705.  Martha  Mitton  married 
John  Grove;  he  first  lived  in  Kittery,  Me.;  about  171 2,  he  removed  to 
Rhode  Island;  was  a  Quaker.  Elizabeth  Mitton  was  born  in  1644. 
In  1735,  she  was  living  in  Boston  and  made  a  deposition  in  which  it 
is  recited  that  she  was  ninety  years  old.  About  1662,  she  married 
Lieutenant  Thaddeus  Clark;  he  had  a  fair  education;  held  several 
important  civil  positions  and  accepted  office  under  Andross;  was  asso- 
ciated with  the  Tyng-Davis  faction;  was  killed  in  May,  1690,  while 
gallantly  leading  a  charge  on  the  French  and  Indians  at  Falmouth. 
Their  daughter,  Elizabeth  Clark,  married  Colonel  Edward  Tyng,  a 
member  of  Andross'  council;  he  was  captured  by  the  French,  carried 
to  France  where  he  died;  daughter,  Elizabeth  Tyng,  married  a  brother 
of  Dr.  Franklin;  other  children  were  Edward,  Jonathan  and  Mary. 
Mary  Mitton,  who  married  Thomas  Brackett,  was  perhaps  the  young- 
est daughter.  Nathaniel  Mitton,  Jr.,  was  killed  by  the  Indians  at 
the  house  of  Captain  Anthony  Brackett,  August  11,  1676;  he  was 
unmarried. 


CHAPTER    II. 


ANTHONY     BRACKETT.    THE     IMMIGRANT, 
OF     PORTSMOUTH. 

Nearly  all  persons  by  the  name  of  Brackett  who  reside  in  the 
States  of  Maine  and  New  Hampshire,  and  persons  residing  elsewhere 
whose  forefathers  of  that  name  lived  in  either  of  those  States,  descend 
from  the  immigrant,  Anthony  Brackett  of  Portsmouth.  In  1640,  he, 
with  several  others  who  lived  in  the  present  limits  of  Portsmouth,  or 
in  the  vicinity,  signed  a  deed  for  a  glebe;  he  settled  in  New  Hampshire 
several  years  prior  to  1640.  There  is  also  mention  of  a  William 
Brackett  as  a  settler  near  Portsmouth  at  as  early,  if  not  at  an  earlier, 
time  than  is  known  that  Anthony  Brackett  came  to  America. 
Whether  William  and  Anthony  Brackett  are  identical  in  person,  or 
whether  Anthony  was  son  of  William,  or  was  any  kin  to  him,  are 
matters  of  speculation  and  conjecture.  The  uncertainty,  or  lack  of 
certainty,  upon  these  subjects,  as  well  as  pertaining  to  the  time  and 
in  what  capacity,  Anthony  Brackett  came  to  America,  make  of  inter- 
est in  these  connections,  the  early  history  of  the  first  settlement  in 
New  Hampshire,  as  it  sheds  all  the  light  we  have  on  these  questions; 
also  said  history  is  of  interest  to  us,  as  at  the  place  where  the  settle- 
ment was  made,  Anthony  Brackett  there  dwelt  all  his  life  from  the 
time  of  his  coming  to  America,  a  period  of  over  fifty-five  years. 

One  David  Thomson,  a  Scotchman,  in  the  spring  of  1623,  made 
the  first  permanent  settlement  in  New  Hampshire,  at  a  place  called 
Little  Harbor,  near  the  mouth  of  the  Piscataqua  river,  on  its  south 
side.  In  the  year  1622,  he  entered  into  an  agreement  with  some  mer- 
chants of  Plymouth,  England,  who  had  obtained  a  lease  for  a  term  o 
five  years,  of  a  tract  at  the  mouth  of  the  Piscataqua  river  as  a  site  for 
fisheries,  to  superintend  their  enterprise,  and  during  the  following 
year,  in  the  bark  "Jonathan,"  came  to  America  with  the  men  in  the 
employ  of  the  merchants.  At  Little  Harbor  he  erected  fish-stages 
and  built  a  house;  remained  there  during  the  term  of  the  lease;  then 
removed  to  the  island  in  Boston  harbor,  which  bears  his  name,  and 
died  there  in  the  year  1628.  When  is  considered  that  there  is  proof, 
by  tradition,  that  the  early  immigrant  Bracketts  were  Scotchmen,  the 
fact  is  of  moment  that  the  leader  of  the  first  colonists  to  New  Hamp- 
shire who  settled  where  Anthony  Brackett  lived,  was  himself  a 
Scotchman,  and  gives  rise  to  the  conjecture  that  the  first  Brackett  in 
America  came  as  early  as  1623,  with  Thomson. 

Soon  after,  or  about  the  time  of  the  departure  of  Thomson  from 
Little  Harbor,  the  enterprise  passed  into  the  hands  of  the  Laconia 
Company,  an  unincorporated  association,  of  which  Sir  Ferdinando 
Gorges  and  Capt.  John  Mason  were  members.  Its  patent  from  the 
council  of  the  New  England  company  bears  date  November  17,  1629. 


48  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

The  company  sent  to  America  in  the  bark  "Warwick,"  which  sailed 
from  London  the  last  of  March,  1630,  and  arrived  at  the  Piscataqua 
river  the  first  of  June  following,  colonists  with  Captain  Walter  Neal 
as  governor.  They  took  possession  of  the  works  and  house  at  Little 
Harbor.  At  Strawberry  bank,  within  the  limits  of  the  city  of  Ports- 
mouth, was  erected  in  1632  a  large  frame  house  sometimes  referred  to  as 
the  manor  house.  The  enterprise  was  not  a  financial  success  for  the 
proprietors;  there  were  charges  of  bad  faith  as  to  the  conduct  of  the 
stewards  or  superintendents;  at  the  end  of  the  third  year  the  Laconia 
company  decided  to  suspend  further  operations  until  Captain  Neal 
returned  to  England  and  reported  the  condition  of  its  affairs  in  Amer- 
ica. Neal  left  for  England  in  August,  1633.  His  report  to  the  com- 
pany was  followed  by  proceedings  to  wind  up  its  affairs,  and  its 
factor,  Ambrose  Gibbons,  was  directed  to  discharge  the  hands  and 
pay  them  off  in  beaver.  John  Mason  appears  to  have  secured  the  in- 
terests of  the  Laconia  company  and  the  control  of  the  enterprise  at 
the  mouth  of  the  Piscataqua.  In  1634,  he  sent  over  more  hands. 
The  lines  of  business  engaged  in  were  fishing,  manufacturing  salt, 
potash,  lumber  and  pipe  staves.  There  is  mention  of  Mason  having 
sent  to  the  colony  in  1634,  a  saw  mill,  and  one  was  erected  on  the 
easterly  side  of  the  river  in  the  present  limits  of  Maine.  In  the  house 
at  Strawberry  bank  resided  Thomas  Wonerton,  one  of  the  members 
of  the  Laconia  company  and  a  superintendent  for  Mason.  Edward 
Godfrey,  who  had  charge  of  the  fisheries,  occupied  the  house  at 
Little  Harbor.  It  does  not  appear  that  any  more  men  were  sent  to 
the  colony  by  Mason,  who  died  in  1635.  His  widow  sent  in  1638,  as 
her  agent,  Francis  Norton,  but  it  is  not  mentioned  that  additional 
men  came  with  him. 

The  plantation  did  not  pay  expenses;  the  estate  of  Mason  was  in- 
debted to  the  servants,  laborers  and  overseers  for  services;  at  so  low 
an  ebb  were  affairs  and  so  poor  were  the  prospects,  that  Norton  was 
instructed  to  notify  the  people  to  shift  for  themselves.  The  employ- 
ees seized  upon  all  the  property,  divided  the  cattle  and  other  personal 
effects,  each  taking  in  proportion  to  his  claim  and  what  else  he 
could;  portions  of  the  land  were  also  allotted  among  them. 

When,  in  1634,  Mason  sent  a  force  of  employees  to  the  planta- 
tion, it  came  in  charge  of  Francis  Williams,  who  was  appointed  gov- 
ernor of  the  colony;  he  was  chosen  by  the  colonist  as  their  gov- 
ernor when  the  widow  of  Mason,  about  1638,  dismissed  them  from  her 
employ. 

The  other  settlements  in  the  State  at  the  period,  were  in  the  lim- 
its of  the  then  towns  of  Dover,  Hampton  and  Exeter;  each  had  its 
respective  government  and  were  in  no  way  dependent  upon  or  associ- 
ated with  one  another  or  with  other  colony.  Separately  by  its  choice, 
each  of  these  colonies  submitted  to  the  jurisdiction  of  the  colony  of 
Massachusetts  Bay,  became  towns  belonging  to  and  a  part  of  that 
colony.  The  last  thus  to  lose  its  identity  was  the  Mason  colony 
at  the  mouth  of  the  Piscataqua;  its  territory  included  the  present 
towns  of  Rye,  New  Castle,  part  of  Newington,  Portsmouth  and  a 
part  of  Greenland. 

There  is  extant  a  list  of  names  purporting  to  be  of  those  persons 
whom  Mason  sent  to  his  plantation  as  his  "stewards  and  servants." 
There    are  fifty-one  names  in  the  list  and   one  of    them  is  William 


ANTHONY,     THE     IMMIGRANT  49 

Brackett.  They  are  as  follows:  Walter  Neal,  steward;  Ambrose 
Gibbons,  steward;  Thomas  Comack,  William  Raymond,  Francis 
Williams,  George  Vaugh,  Thomas  Wonerton,  steward;  Francis  Nor- 
ton, steward;  Sampson  Fane,  steward;  Henry  Jocelyn,  steward; 
Reginald  Furnald,  surgeon;  Ralph  Gee,  Henry  Gee,  William  Cooper, 
William  Chadborn,  Ffrancis  Matthews,  Humphrey  Chadborn,  Wil- 
liam Chadborn,  Jr.,  Francis  Rand,  James  Johnson,  Ant.  Ellins, 
Henry  Baldwin,  Thomas  Spencer,  Thomas  Fural,  Thomas  Flerd, 
Thomas  Chatherton,  John  Crowther,  John  Williams,  Roger  Knight, 
Henry  Sherburn,  John  Goddard,  Thomas  Furnald,  Thomas  Withers, 
Thomas  Canney,  John  Symonds,  John  Penley,  William  Seavy,  Wil- 
liam Berry,  Henry  Langstaff,  Jeremy  Walford,  James  Wall,  William 
Brokin,  Thomas  Walford,  Thomas  Moor,  Joseph  Beal,  Hugh  James, 
Alexander  Jones,  John  Ault,  William  Bracket,  James  Newt,  eight 
Danes  and  twenty-two  women. 

"Stewards  and  servants"  as  used  by  the  author  of  the  list,  do 
not  mean  persons  of  service,  but  employees  of  Mason,  his  overseers 
and  workmen.  Nor  were  all  the  persons  mentioned  sent  to  America 
by  Mason.  Neal,  Joyclyn,  Vaughn,  Gibbons,  Comack,  Wonerton, 
Godfrey,  Raymond,  and  the  Chadbourns  were  in  the  province  prior 
to  1633,  in  the  employ  of  the  Laconia  company  as  factors,  superin- 
tendents and  overseers.  At  Little  Harbor,  prior  to  1633,  were  em- 
ployed William  Cooper,  Roger  Knight  and  wife,  Ralph  Gee,  a  boy 
and  William  Dernit  (the  latter  not  mentioned  in  the  list) .  Under 
date  of  July  13,  1633,  Gibbons,  who  resided  at  Newichawanock 
(Berwick,  Me.)  on  the  east  side  of  the  river,  wrote  Captain  Mason 
that  Wonerton  "hath  charge  of  the  house  at  Pascatawa"  (Little 
Harbor)  and  had  with  him  Williams,  Cooper,  et  al,  mentioned  above. 
It  thus  appears  that  Wonerton  assumed  the  charge  of  affairs  at  Little 
Harbor  on  the  departure  of  Godfrey.  In  this  letter  Gibbons  gives 
the  names  of  the  men  employed  under  him  at  Newichawanock,  none 
of  whom  appear  in  the  list.  It  may  be  not  significant  of  any  thing 
material,  but  it  is  noticeable  that  the  first  eighteen  names  of  the  list, 
with  two  possible  exceptions  (Francis  Matthews  and  Henry  Gee),  are 
of  those  persons  who  are  known  to  have  been  in  the  province  prior  to 
1633,  and  of  four  persons  employed  in  a  capacity  other  than  laborers 
who  came  later  than  1633,  viz.,  Francis  Williams,  Francis  Norton 
and  probably  Sampson  Lane  and  Reginald  Fernald. 

In  letter  under  date  of  December  5,  1632,  members  of  the 
Laconia  company  wrote  Gibbons,  which  he  did  not  receive  until 
June  7,  [633,  ■ —  "We  desire  to  have  our  fisherman  increased  whereof 
we  have  written  Mr.  Godfrey."  Also,  under  date  of  May  5,  1634, 
from  Portsmouth,  England,  Captain  Mason  wrote  Gibbons,  "These 
people  and  provisions  which  I  have  now  sent  with  Mr.  Jocelyn  are  to 
sett  upp  two  mills  upon  my  own  division  of  lands  lately  agreed  upon 
betwixt  our  adventurers."  Other  men  were  sent  to  the  plantation  in 
1634  with  Francis  Williams  who  was  appointed  by  Mason  as  governor 
of  his  colony.  Query.  Are  the  remaining  names  (after  the  first 
eighteen)  of  the  list,  of  those  persons  sent  over  by  Mason  in  1634? 
If  so,  then  it  was  in  1634  that  William  Brackett  came  to  America. 
There  is  evidence,  however,  that  Thomas  Walford,  one  of  the  num- 
ber, was  not  sent  to  America  by  Captain  Mason;  a  person  by  that 
name  was  in  Charlestown,  Mass.,  as  early  as  1628,  and  was  expelled 


50  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

from  that  town  in  1631  "for  contempt  of  authority  and  confronting 
an  officer."  Also,  some  of  the  persons  mentioned  in  the  list  left  the 
colony  prior  to  the  year  1640,  in  which  the  deed  for  a  glebe  was 
made.  Neal  left  for  England  in  1633;  Jocelyn  was  in  Saco  in  1637 
and  Comack  and  Godfrey  were  located  in  Maine  at  as  early  a  date. 
The  evidence  is  certain  that  the  list  of  names  is  nothing  more,  even 
if  it  purports  to  be,  than  of  those  persons  who  were  in  the  colony  at 
some  period  as  early  as  1630  and  as  late  or  later  than  1638,  some  of 
whom  departed  before  others  came  to  the  colony.  The  thought 
occurs  in  this  connection,  how  happens  it  that  though  Anthony  was 
a  signer  to  the  deed  for  a  glebe  in  1640,  his  name  does  not  appear  in 
the  list.  A  comparison  of  the  names  of  the  persons  who  signed  the 
deed,  with  those  contained  in  the  list,  shows  that  twelve  of  the 
twenty  of  the  former  are  not  found  among  the  latter.  The  inference, 
in  the  absence  of  evidence  that  there  were  accessions  to  the  colony 
from  sources  other  than  from  Mason,  is,  that  the  list  is  incomplete  as 
to  names  of  persons  who  were  sent  by  him  to  the  colony.  Anthony 
was  married  about  1635;  he  was  the  head  of  a  family  in  1640.  It 
will  be  observed  from  such  comparison,  that  instances  occur  of  the 
same  surnames  of  persons  in  the  list  and  as  signers  to  the  deed,  but 
with  different  Christian  names,  as  Thomas  Chatterton  in  the  list, 
Michael  Chatterton.  signer  to  the  deed;  Alexander  Jones  in  the  list, 
John  and  William  Jones,  signers  to  the  deed;  William  Brackett 
in  the  list,  Anthony  Brackett,  signer  to  the  deed.  Are  we  to  infer 
that  in  these  instances,  particularly  as  to  the  uncommon  names  of 
Chatterton  and  Brackett,  that  the  bearers,  respectively,  of  these  names, 
were  no  kin  to  each  other?  or  that  errors  were  made  by  the  author  of 
the  list,  in  that  he  wrote  William  Brackett  when  he  should  have 
written  Anthony  Brackett  —  as  Anthony  was  a  married  man  prior  to 
1638?  Again,  if  said  Bracketts  were  relatives,  and  also  the  Joneses 
and  the  Chattertons,  respectively,  were  related,  are  we  to  conclude 
that  those  of  such  names  appearing  in  the  list  were  respectively  fath- 
ers whose  sons  signed  the  deed,  the  fathers  having  died  and  the  sons, 
in  1640  or  prior,  having  become  heads  of  families?  It  is  for  the 
reader  to  decide  for  himself  relative  to  these  matters;  he  has  before 
him  all  the  evidence  obtainable  bearing  on  the  questions  as  to  about 
when  Anthony  Brackett  came  to  America  and  as  to  his  relation  to, 
or  his  identity  with,  William  Brackett,  if  there  were  such  a  person  in 
the  colony.  Respecting  the  latter  all  that  is  known  is,  that  the  name, 
William  Brackett,  is  given  in  the  list;  no  further  mention  is  made  of 
him.  If  he  were  the  father,  or  a  relative,  of  Anthony,  the  latter  did 
not  name  any  of  his  children  for  him.  The  name  does  not  occur  in 
the  family  until  later  than  1750. 

The  colony  of  Mason,  known  as  Strawberry  Bank  colony  (not 
called  Portsmouth  until  1653),  came  under  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay  in  164 1.  The  negotiations  to  this  end 
lasted  about  a  year.  Most  of  the  settlers  were  Episcopalians,  and 
were  chary  of  submitting  to  the  rule  of  the  straight-jacket  gentry  of 
the  Bay  colony,  However,  as  they  were  guaranteed  the  rights  of 
freemen  and  full  liberty  in  matters  pertaining  to  religion,  upon  these 
terms  the  union  was  effected.  Francis  Williams  was  governor  of  the 
colony  until  the  union  and  thenceforth  for  several  years  was  one  of 
the  selectmen  of  the  town. 


ANTHONY,     THE     IMMIGRANT  51 

Mention  has  been  made  of  the  deed  for  a  glebe;  by  it  were  con- 
veyed to  the  wardens  of  the  Episcopal  church  for  its  benefit  and  the 
benefit  of  the  local  clergyman,  fifty  acres  of  land  in  Strawberry  Bank 
on  which  then  stood  the  church  building;  the  land  now  is  part  of  the 
city  of  Portsmouth.  The  signers  to  the  deed  were  Francis  Williams, 
governor,  Ambrose  Gibbons,  assistant,  William  Jones,  Reginald 
Fernald,  John  Crowther,  Anthony  Bracket,  Michael  Chatterton, 
John  Wall,  Robert  Pudington,  Henry  Sherburne,  John  Langden, 
Henry  Taler,  John  Jones,  William  Berry,  John  Pickering,  John 
Billings,  John  Wotten,  Nicholas  Row,  Matthew  Coe  and  John 
Palmer. 

Of  the  early  history  of  the  church  little  is  known;  at  intervals,  a 
clergyman  for  a  few  years  served  the  people  as  their  pastor.  Anthony 
was  a  member  of  the  church  until  his  death;  none  of  its  records  of 
interest  to  us  are  extant,  and  nothing  is  contained  in  the  meager 
scraps  which  have  been  preserved,  relative  to  the  history  of  the  col- 
ony antecedent  to  its  union  with  the  Bay  colony,  that  afford  us  any 
light  as  to  Anthony  or  his  family.  Also,  the  town  records  of  Straw- 
berry Bank  (Portsmouth)  from  1641  to  1649  are  not  extant;  it  is  not 
known  with  certainty  in  what  part  of  the  town  he  resided  prior  to 
1649.  However,  the  evidence  we  have,  warrants  the  belief  that  he 
lived  in  the  vicinity  of  Little  Harbor  and  the  "Pascatawa"  house;  its 
site  was  on  a  peninsula  now  called  Odiorne's  point,  formed  by  Little 
Harbor  on  the  northeast  and  a  creek  on  the  south  side;  to  the  west 
was  a  large  tract  of  salt  marsh.  It  is  mentioned  that  John  Berry  was 
the  first  settler  within  the  limits  of  the  present  town  of  Rye,  near 
Little  Harbor,  "followed  by  Seavey,  Rand  and  Brackett,"  in  1635. 
It  is  probable  that  the  persons  named  were  the  first  to  whom  as  col- 
onists, land  was  allotted.  It  is  ventured  that  the  persons  who,  prior 
to  1640,  located  near  Little  Harbor,  by  their  choice  settled  there, 
they  having  been  in  some  capacity  connected  with  the  fisheries  car- 
ried on  at  the  place,  and  had  their  habitation  there  from  the  time  of 
their  coming  to  America;  that  upon  the  discontinuing  of  the  fisher- 
ies, they  turned  their  attention  to  farming  and  stock  raising.  From 
1649  until  his  death  it  is  known  that  Anthony  lived  but  a  mile  or  so 
south  of  the  harbor,  west  of  Sandy  beach,  on  or  near  the  stream, 
Saltwater  brook,  and  on  Brackett  lane,  now  Brackett  road.  It  is 
traditional  that  he  lived  near  the  ocean. 

In  the  year  1649  at  a  meeting  of  the  selectmen,  held  August  13, 
was  voted  "by  common  consent"  a  grant  of  a  lot  to  "Anthony 
Brakit",  lying  between  the  lands  belonging  to  Robert  Pudington  and 
William  Berry  "at  the  head  of  the  Sandy  Beach  Fresh  Reiver  at 
the  western  branch  thereof." 

At  a  meeting  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  town  held  January  13, 
1652,  a  grant  of  thirty  acres  was  voted  to  '  'Anthony  Brackite . ' '  March 
4th  following,  at  a  town  meeting  the  selectmen  were  directed  "at  the 
next  fit  time"  to  lay  out  the  land  "unto  the  people  of  Sandy  Beach, 
vid.  unto  William  Berry,  Anthony  Brackit,  Thomas  Sevy,  Francis 
Rand  and  James  Johnson." 

Under  date  of  March  17,  1653,  the  town  records  read  that  a 
grant  was  made  of  land  near  Sandy  beach,  by  the  people,  "unto 
James  Johnson,  of  medow  20  ackers;  unto  Olliver  Trimmings,  4 
ackers;   unto  Thomas  Sevy,  of  medow  8  ackers,  and  upland  8  ackers; 


52  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

unto  William  Berry,  of  medow  unto  his  ould  hous  that  is  by  William 
Sevy's,  6  ackers;  unto  Anthony  Brakit,  upland  30  ackers  adjojminge 
unto  his  hous  and  of  medow  20  ackers  more;  unto  William  Berry, 
from  the  littell  creek  next  unto  Goodman  Brakits  as  much  as  shall 
amount  unto  ten  ackers  of  medow  between  the  sayd  creke  and  the 
creeks  mouth  upon  the  south  sid  thearof,  and  4  ackers  of  ***** 
wheare  he  hath  alredy  ploued  upon  the  north  sid  of  the  creek;  mor 
upland  to  ajoyn  his  house  upon  the  necke,  26  ackers;  unto  James 
Rand,  medow  8  ackers,  upland  20  akers  for  a  lotte." 

The  foregoing  discloses  who  were  the  near  neighbors  of  Anthony 
Brackett.  He  was  granted  by  the  town  at  meeting  held  March  20, 
1656,  "50  acres  more  land  than  his  former  grant  to  join  with  his 
hous  and  to  lye  in  such  form  as  it  ma}7  enclose  his  hous,  so  that  it  be 
not  in  any  man's  former  grant."  Also  was  granted  to  him  February 
3,  1660,  one  hundred  acres  under  provision  approved  by  the  people 
at  town  meeting  granting  such  amount  of  land  to  each  head  of  a 
family  "who  had  come  to  dwell  in  the  town."  A  further  provision, 
approved  at  the  same  town  meeting,  was  that  thirteen  acres  of  laud 
should  be  allowed  to  each  son  in  a  family  over  the  age  of  twenty-one, 
to  each  son  under  that  age,  if  married,  and  to  each  daughter  over 
the  age  of  eighteen  years.  Under  this  provision  Anthony  Brackett, 
Jr.  was  granted  thirteen  acres  and  Elinor  Brackett  thirteen  acres. 
They  were  children  of  Anthony,  the  immigrant.  In  all,  our  ancestor 
was  granted  over  two  hundred  acres  of  land.  The  town  was  so 
sparsely  settled  at  the  time  the  grants  were  made,  that  the  several 
grants  to  each  person  could  adjoin  one  another  and  the  whole  lay  in 
quite  compact  form.  March  31,  1650,  Anthony  deeded  land  and 
buildings  at  Strawberry  Bank  (Portsmouth)  to  William  Cotton. 
This  would  warrant  a  surmise  that  he  had  lived  in  Portsmouth  prior 
to  1650,  and  when  granted  land  in  1649  he  sold  his  property  in  Ports- 
mouth and  removed  to  Sandy  beach  in  the  same  town.  September 
19,  1678,  he  purchased  land  at  "Sandie  Beach  from  Henrj-  Sher- 
burne." 

He  has  usually  been  designated  as  "Anthony,  the  selectman." 
In  the  year  1655,  at  a  town  meeting  held  March  8,  Anthony,  Thomas 
Walford,  William  Seavy,  James  Johnson  and  John  Webster  were 
chosen  selectmen  for  one  year.  On  July  10  following,  three  of  said 
selectmen  signed  a  warrant  for  collection  of  a  tax  to  pay  the  salary 
of  the  local  minister,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Brown.  Thomas  Walford  signed 
by  mark  thus,  "V  ;"  Anthony  "Brakit"  signed  by  mark  thus,  "A." 
In  February,  1656,  a  meeting  of  the  selectmen  was  held.  Three  of 
their  number  signed  records  by  mark,  James  Johnson  signing  thus, 
"I."  All  the  selectmen  except  Thomas  Webster  lived  near  Sandy 
beach.  The  following  year  one  only  of  their  number  was  chosen 
selectman,  viz. ,  James  Johnson.  Several  years  subsequently  Anthony 
was  again  chosen  selectman  ;  mention  of  the  fact  will  be  made  in  its 
proper  connection. 

The  extant  town  and  parish  records  relative  to  constable  rates 
for  collection  of  taxes  to  pay  the  minister's  salary,  show  his  name  in 
the  lists  for  the  years  1677  and  1688  ;  the  tax,  eighteen  shillings, 
which  he  was  assessed  for  the  year  1688,  is  considerably  in  excess  of 
the  average  amount  of  tax  paid  by  other  townsmen  for  the  purpose. 
In  1666  he  subscribed  £1,  10s,  for  support  of  the  minister. 


ANTHONY,     TT.E     IMMIGRANT  53 

An  industrious  man  with  the  prospect  of  acquiring  a  home 
through  moderate  efforts,  of  becoming  the  owner  of  a  productive 
farm  situated  in  a  favorable  locality  near  a  civilized  community, 
would  have  hopes  of  enjoying  the  blessings  of  life,  of  rising  to  some 
considerable  degree  of  affluence  and  social  standing. 

It  is  safe  to  venture  that  the  life  of  Anthony  alter  he  settled  in 
America,  was  happy,  far  happier  and  easier  than  the  lot  of  any  of 
his  ancestors  of  whom  he  had  knowledge.  Right  fortunate  he  could 
consider  himself  in  being  the  possessor  and  owner  of  fertile  land,  part 
in  natural  meadow,  near  to  the  sea  and  in  the  midst  of  a  growing 
settlement.  Great  were  the  advantages  of  reaping  the  full  product 
of  his  labor,  not  only  to  himself  but  to  his  children  whose  prospects 
in  life  would  be  far  better  than  his  own,  to  whom  he  had  hopes  of 
leaving  a  fair  competence.  Yet  he  had  his  troubles ;  they  began 
when  the  colony  of  Strawberry  Bank  in  1641,  became  a  part  of  the 
colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay.  He  considered  that  the  authority  of 
the  Bay  colony  over  the  town,  was  usurped  power  ;  that  its  laws  were 
contrary  to  the  laws  of  England.  From  the  year  1041  the  new  set- 
tlers in  the  town  were  chiefly  Congregationalists,  immigrants  from  the 
Bay  colony.  The  control  of  town  affairs  beginning  about  165J,  was 
exercised  by  a  few  of  the  wealthier  class  ;  it  was  charged  by  many  of 
the  old  Episcopalian  settlers  that  these  few  "5  or  6  of  the  richest  men 
of  the  parish  had  ruled,  swayed  and  ordered  all  offices,  civil  and 
military,  at  their  pleasure;''  that  some  of  the  opponents  of  the  few 
"though  a  loyal  subject,  and  some  well  acquainted  with  the  laws  of 
England,  durst  make  any  opposition  for  fear  of  great  fines  and 
imprisonment  ;"  that  they  had  been  under  "hard  servitude"  from  the 
lew,  had  been  denied  "our  public  meetings,  the  common  prayer, 
sacremeuts  and  decent  burial  for  the  dead;"  also  had  been  denied 
the  "benefit  of  freeman  ;"  that  said  few  had  always  kept  themselves 
in  office  "for  the  managing  of  gifts  of  land  and  settling  them' '  where- 
by the  opponents  of  the  few  "were  not  only  disabled  but  also  dis- 
couraged for  continuing  in  the  plantation;"  that  said  few  had 
"taken  the  greatest  part  of  their  lands  in  the  plantation  into  their 
own  hands"  and  other  "men  that  had  been  in  the  town  for  many 
years  have  no  lands  at  all  given  them,  and  some  that  had  lands  given 
them,"  the  few  who  controlled  the  town  "had  disowned  the  grants 
and  laid  it  out  to  others."  In  1665  when  the  King's  commissioners 
for  the  settlement  of  affairs  in  the  colonies,  arrived  in  New  Hamp- 
shire, to  them  was  presented  a  petition  signed  by  sixty-one  of  the 
settlers,  setting  forth  their  hardships  and  grievances,  and  praying  to 
be  relieved  from  Puritan  rule.  One  of  the  signers  was  Anthony 
Brackett ;  his  signature  is  his  name  —  not  his  mark.  Perhaps  he 
had  been  taught  to  write  by  his  children. 

Consequent  upon  the  presenting  of  the  petition,  or  as  a  result  of 
the  unity  of  effort  upon  the  part  of  its  signers,  the  affairs  of  the  town 
were  no  longer  wholly  controlled  by  the  Puritan  faction  ;  it  appears 
that  the  old  settlers  dared  to  assert  themselves.  In  the  spring  of 
1667  Anthony  was  again  chosen  selectman.  It  is  probable  that  he 
was  a  courageous,  even-tempered,  equitable-minded  person,  the  prop- 
er one  for  the  position  in  time  of  strife  and  turmoil,  with  public 
pelf  and  spoil  at  stake.  We  are  privileged  to  presume  from  the  fact 
of  his  election  to  the  office  at  this  eventful  period,  that  he  was  a  man 


54  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

of  note  and  standing  among  his  townsmen,  forged  himself  well  to  the 
front  in  time  of  emergency  and  ever  stood  read}'  with  others  to  bear 
the  misfortunes  that  fell  to  them,  or  with  them  share  the  weal  of  the 
town.  No  more  protests  or  petitions  do  we  find  to  1680.  In  that 
year  the  government  of  the  Bay  colony  over  the  province  of  New 
Hampshire  ceased,  and  a  government  was  organized  for  it  having  no 
connection  with  the  government  of  any  other  province.  The  new 
government  was  composed  of  a  president  and  council ;  also  an 
assembly  of  representatives  chosen  by  the  people  of  the  several  towns. 
Mr.  John  Cutts,  one  of  the  wealthy  few,  whose  acts  were  the  subject  of 
the  grievances  of  the  petitioners  of  1665,  was  appointed  president. 
The  records  of  the  council  for  the  year  1680  show  that  Anthony 
Brackett,  though  one  of  the  recalcitrants  of  1665,  was  named  by 
President  Cutts  as  one  of  the  persons  of  the  town  of  Portsmouth 
qualified  to  vote  for  members  of  the  general  assembly. 

The  union  of  all  faction  among  the  people  became  necessary,  in 
order  to  preserve  in  themselves  title  to  the  lands  which  had  been 
allotted  to  them  respectively,  as  against  the  heirs  of  Captain  Mason 
who  set  up  title  to  quite  all  the  land  in  the  province.  The  creation 
of  the  new  government  was  a  step  in  the  scheme  of  the  Mason  heirs 
to  acquire  the  lands  which  they  claimed.  However,  President  Cutts 
himself  was  a  large  landowner  under  town  grants,  and  an  honorable 
man  ;  as  the  executive  of  the  new  government  he  was  not  an  instru- 
ment to  subserve  the  ends  of  the  claimants.  Upon  his  death  in  1682, 
New  Hampshire  was  made  a  royal  province  and  Edward  Cranfield 
was  appointed  its  governor.  All  power  vested  in  him  in  such 
capacity,  he  willingly  exercised  for  the  purposes  of  the  Mason  claim- 
ants. Easily  can  it  be  imagined  how  great  a  tempest  a  royal  gov- 
ernor could  raise  in  a  province  consisting  of  four  sparsely  settled 
towns,  whose  purpose  was  to  deprive  the  far  greater  portion  of  the 
people,  of  their  lands.  Anthony  with  quite  all  the  settlers,  signed  a 
petition  to  the  king,  in  which  was  set  forth  their  grievances,  for  the 
removal  of  Cranfield  as  governor.  The  bearer  of  this  petition  was 
Nathaniel  Weare  of  Hampton,  who  carried  it  to  England  in  1688. 

In  Portsmouth,  at  Sandy  beach,  in  1658,  happened  an  affair  of 
interest  for  the  reason  that  several  of  Anthony's  near  neighbors  were 
the  actors  ;  its  interest  to  us,  however,  is  that  our  ancestor,  so  far  as 
is  known,  had  no  connection  with  it  —  which  fact  evidences  that  he 
was  a  fair-minded,  level-headed  man,  having  far  more  sense  than 
some  of  the  deluded  wretches  who  were  over  him  in  a  civil  way. 
One  of  his  neighbors  was  accused  and  tried  for  witchcraft  —  the  only 
case  of  the  kind  in  the  annals  of  New  Hampshire.  The  name  of  the 
accused  was  Jane  Walford,  at  the  time  the  widow  of  Thomas  Wal- 
ford,  the  courageous  smith  of  Charlestown  ;  she  was  a  woman  of 
considerable  means  and  a  great  deal  of  spirit.  Her  accuser  was 
Susannah  Trimmings,  wife  of  Oliver  Trimmings.  The' evidence  was 
directed  to  show  that  Susannah  was  bewitched  ;  that  Jane  was  a 
witch  and  that  she  bewitched  Susannah.  All  material  evidence  in 
the  case  was,  of  course,  pure  lies  ;  those  invented  by  Susannah  were, 
perhaps,  prompted  by  her  hatred  for  her  neighbor.  One  is  justified 
in  the  conclusion  from  what  she  related,  that  she  was  drunk,  not 
bewitched,  and  from  what  others  related  as  to  her  having  been 
bewitched,  that  she  continued  drunk  for  some  time,  and  deceived  her 
husband  into  the  belief  that  she  was  bewitched. 


ANTHONY,  THE  IMMIGRANT  55 

Susannah  Trimmings  testified  :  — 

"As  I  was  going  home  on  Sunday  night  I  heard  a  rustling  in 
the  woods  which  I  supposed  to  be  occasioned  by  swine,  and  presently 
there  appeared  a  woman  whom  I  apprehended  to  be  old  Goodwife 
Walford.  She  asked  me  to  lend  her  a  pound  of  cotton.  I  told  her 
that  I  had  but  two  pounds  in  the  house  and  I  would  not  spare  any  to 
my  mother.  She  said  I  better  have  done  it  for  I  was  going  a  great 
journey,  but  she  should  never  come  there.  She  left  me  and  I  was 
struck  with  a  clap  of  fire  on  the  back,  and  she  vanished  toward  the 
in  my  apprehension,  in  the  shape  of  a  cat  *  *  *   ." 

Her  husband's  testimony  related  to  her  pretensions  as  to  the 
cause  of  her  condition,  her  complaints  and  appearance  on  her  arrival 
at  home  after  her  bout,  whatever  it  was  ;  that  he  said  to  her,  the 
cause  of  her  condition  was  her  weakness.  He  probably  knew  the 
truth  of  what  he  said. 

The  witness,  Eliza  Barton,  appears  to  have  told  the  truth  so  far 
as  she  knew  it,  and  fairly  well  described  a  case  of  a  prolonged  drunk. 
Her  testimony  was  :  — 

"I  saw  Susannah  Trimmings  at  the  time  she  was  ill ;  her  face 
was  colored  and  spotted."  She  told  deponent  her  story  who  said  it 
"was  nothing  but  fantasy;"  that  her  eyes  looked  as  "if  they  had 
been  scalded." 

John  Pudington  perhaps  testified  to  the  truth  ;  what  he  related 
may  have  been  true.     He  testified  that :  — 

"Three  years  since  Goodwife  Walford  came  to  my  mother's.  She 
said  that  her  own  husband  called  her  an  old  witch,  and  when  she 
came  to  her  cattle,  her  own  husband  would  bid  her  begone,  for  she 
did  overlook  the  cattle,  which  is  as  much  to  say  in  our  country 
'bewitching.'  " 

Nicholas  Row  and  Agnes  Pudington  were  the  brilliant  Ananiases 
of  the  affair.     Nicholas  testified,  in  substance,  that :  — 

"Jane  Walford,  shortly  after  she  was  accused,  came  to  him  in 
bed,  in  the  evening,  and  put  her  hand  upon  his  breast  so  that  he 
could  not  speak,  and  was  in  great  pain  until  the  next  day.  By  the 
light  of  the  fire  in  the  next  room  it  appeared  to  be  Goody  Walford, 
but  she  did  not  speak.  She  repeated  her  visit  about  a  week  after 
and  did  as  before,  but  said  nothing." 

Agnes  Pudington  deposed  in  substance  as  follows :  — 

"On  the  nth  of  April  the  wife  of  W.  Evans  came  to  my  house 
and  lay  there  all  night;  a  little  after  sunset  the  deponent  saw  a  yel- 
low cat  and  Mrs.  Evans  said  she  was  followed  by  a  cat  wherever  she 
went.  John  came  and  saw  a  cat  in  the  garden,  took  down  his  gun 
to  shoot  her;  the  cat  got  up  a  tree  and  the  gun  would  not  take  fire; 
afterward  the  cock  would  not  stand.  She  afterwards  saw  three  cats; 
the  yellow  one  vanished  away  on  plain  ground;  she  could  not  tell 
the  way  it  went." 

The  magistrates  before  whom  the  hearing  was  held  in  Ports- 
mouth, were  two  legal  luminaries  of  the  Bay  colony.  The  accused 
was  required  to  give  bond  for  her  appearance  at  the  next  term  of 
court.  She  gave  bond  but  never  was  tried.  In  after  years  she 
recovered  judgment  against  one  of  her  neighbors  for  calling  her  a 
witch. 


56  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

It  is  to  be  wondered  that  any  thing  in  human  shape  should  at 
all  seriously  consider  the  evidence  or  the  charge.  Perhaps  it  was 
that  credence  was  accorded  to  however  unnatural  a  proposition  if  it 
accorded  with  one's  pretences  or  served  one's  purposes;  thus  such  a 
one  willingly  aided  in  compassing  the  death  of  his  neighbor,  if  he 
were  thereby  exalted  or  revenged.  In  the  trials  for  witchcraft,  mag- 
istrates, accusers  and  witnesses  for  the  prosecution  well  knew  that 
one  another  were  liars  and  hypocrites  of  the  most  damnable  sort. 
The  barbarous  orthodoxy  (?)  rampant  in  that  day  and  place,  quite 
well  fitted  its  votaries  for  their  atrocious  hatreds  for  some  of  their 
neighbors,  and  for  carrying  forth  their  nefarious  schemes  to  deprive 
persons  obnoxious  to  them,  of  their  lives.  Prosecutions  for  witch- 
craft continued  in  the  Bay  colony  until  the  accused  pointed  the 
accusing  finger  at  their  accusers,  the  magistrates  and  the  witnesses, 
lied  as  freely,  unconsciously  and  vociferously  as  any  concerned  in 
the  prosecution,  not  excepting  even  Cotton  Mather.  When  the 
danger  thus  threatened  the  tormentors,  there  was  unity  among  them 
in  agreeing  that  they  were  all  liars  and  each  knew  the  other  to  have 
been  such  at  all  times;  thereupon,  further  prosecutions  for  witchcraft 
ceased. 

The  settlers  of  New  Hampshire  were  not  involved  in  any  wars 
with  the  Indians  prior  to  1675.  During  King  Philip's  war  which 
commenced  in  that  year,  the  resident  tribes  of  New  Hampshire 
remained  on  peaceful  terms  with  their  white  neighbors.  However, 
in  Maine  there  waged  a  contest  of  unabated  fury  until  the  Indians 
had  achieved  a  complete  victory.  Thomas  Brackett,  a  son  of 
Anthony,  was  killed  at  Falmouth  in  August,  1676.  The  children  of 
the  deceased  were  redeemed  from  captivity  by  their  grandfather,  with 
whom  three  of  them  abided  for  several  years.  It  is  traditional  that 
the  fourth  child,  Samuel  Brackett,  was  reared  by  his  aunt,  Martha 
Grove,  who  lived  in  Kittery.  Following  the  treaty  of  1678  there  was 
a  period  of  peace  of  ten  years,  when  commenced  long  and  desolating 
wars.  To  the  east  of  Rye,  across  the  river,  were  several  settlements 
in  Maine.  So  thorough  was  the  devastation  wrought  by  the  Indians 
and  so  complete  was  their  triumph,  that  bands  of  Indians  roamed  at 
will  on  the  east  side  of  the  river,  from  about  1690.  This  state  of 
affairs  continued  until  1693.  Thus  that  part  of  the  town  of  Ports- 
mouth where  resided  Anthony  Brackett,  became  the  frontier  of  that 
se<  tion  of  the  country  in  which  the  settlers  had  not  taken  refuge  in 
garrison  houses  or  forts.  In  the  year  1691,  war's  desolation  first 
swept  over  the  settlement  at  Sandy  beach.  At  Odiorne's  point  was 
a  garrison  house;  it  afforded  the  people  a  place  of  refuge  on  the  occa- 
sion 01  an  alarm  of  danger.  The  war  had  raged  for  three  years  but 
no  attacks  by  the  Indians  had  been  made  on  this  settlement.  To 
make  an  attack  from  the  most  favorable  direction,  it  was  necessary 
for  the  Indians  to  cross  the  river  in  canoes,  and  row  along  the  coast  for 
a  considerable  distance  to  a  place  suitable  for  landing.  So  successful 
had  been  the  Indians  in  the  war  that  they  were  able  to  travel  for 
main-  miles  through  a  country,  which,  prior  to  the  war,  had  been 
dolled  with  prosperous  and  growing  settlements,  and  where,  in  1691, 
there  was  not  a  white  man  to  stay  their  progress  or  to  give  the  alarm 
on  their  approach.  Not  a  barrier  existed  between  the  devoted  settle- 
ment at  Sandy  beach  and  the  victorious  red  men. 


ANTHONY,     THE     IMMIGRANT  57 

The  blow  fell  on  Tuesday,  September  28,  1691.  On  that  day 
were  killed  Anthony  Brackett  and  his  wife;  also,  on  that  day  were 
made  captives  two  children  of  his  son,  John  Brackett. 

The  Indians  effected  a  landing,  perhaps,  to  the  south  of  Little 
Harbor,  and  from  there  directed  their  attack  on  the  settlers  at  their 
homes,  situated  on  what  was  then  known  as  Brackett  lane,  now 
Brackett  road.  Fifteen  bodies  of  the  slain  were  found  and  it  was 
thought  that  at  least  three  persons  were  consumed  in  the  burning  of 
the  houses.  The  Indians  killed  one  or  more  small  children  by  dash- 
ing out  their  brains  against  a  large  rock  which  stood  on  what  is  now 
Wallis  road,  near  Brackett  road.  It  is  traditional  that  for  many 
years  the  rock  bore  the  stains  of  the  blood  of  the  victims;  the  rock 
has  long  since  been  removed  in  improving  the  road. 

The  story  of  the  attack  as  told  by  an  ancient  chronicler  is  as 
follows  :  — 

"The  sons  of  Francis  Rand  went  a  fishing ;  the  sons  of  ould 
Goodman  Brackett  were  in  the  salt  marsh  and  with  no  suspicion  of 
danger.  The  settlers  went  about  their  usual  vocations.  Early  in 
the  afternoon  a  party  of  Indians  came  from  the  eastward  in  canoes, 
landed  at  Sandy  Beach,  left  the  garrison  there  unmolested,  and 
attacked  the  homes  of  the  defenseless  ones,  killing  and  capturing 
twenty-one  persons.  Among  the  killed  was  Francis  Rand,  one  of 
the  first  settlers.  When  his  sons  came  in  from  fishing  they  followed 
the  Indians  over  to  Bracketts,  fired  upon  them  and  frightened  them 
away.  The  sous  of  Anthony  Brackett  who  had  the  guns  with  them 
ran  to  the  garrison  at  Odiorne's  Point." 

The  garrison  house  was  the  place  to  which  the  people  fled  for 
safety  in  the  event  of  an  attack  by  the  Indians.  The  persons  referred 
to  in  the  account  as  the  "sons  of  Anthony  Brackett"  were  John  and 
Joshua  Brackett,  the  latter  a  grandson  of  Anthony.  They  were  in 
the  salt  marsh  near  to  the  garrison  house,  and  hastened  there  with 
their  arms  as  directed  to  do  in  case  of  an  attack,  to  defend  those  who 
had  escaped  the  Indians.  The  attacking  force,  estimated  at  from 
twenty  to  forty,  probably  exceeded  those  of  the  settlement  capable  of 
bearing  arms.  If  the  garrison  house  was  taken  all  were  lost  —  con- 
signed to  death  or  captivity  ;  hence,  the  precaution  of  the  assembling 
of  the  armed  men  at  the  garrison  house  to  defend  it  and  the  aged,  the 
women  and  children  who  fled  there  for  safety  against  the  attack  of 
the  remorseless  and  vigilant  foe. 

Fugitives  fled  to  Portsmouth,  and  Capt.  John  Pickering  with  the 
local  militia  hastened  to  the  scene  but  did  not  arrive  until  after  the 
Indians  had  made  their  escape  with  their  captives.  No  less  than 
fifteen  persons  were  slain  ;  their  bodies  were  gathered  in  one  place 
and  buried  in  separate  graves. 

Sandy  beach,  in  the  town  of  Rye,  is  about  four  miles  south  of 
the  city  of  Portsmouth.  It  is  now  a  delightful  drive  from  Portsmouth 
to  the  beach  along  a  fine  country  road  bordered  by  profitable  farms 
well  kept  in  a  good  state  of  cultivation ;  there  are  fine  shade  trees 
and  abundant  orchards  along  the  way ;  the  country  thereabouts  is 
level  and  the  soil  is  a  rich  loam.  There  is  an  electric  car  line 
through  Portsmouth,  Rye  and  Hampton.  The  people  of  Rye  owe  a 
large  part  of  their  prosperity  to  the  great  number  of  summer  boarders 
who  flock  there  annually.  Straw's  point  and  Concord  point  are  now 
covered  with  summer  cottages.     The  New  Hampshire  State  boule- 


58  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

vard,  which  is  now  being  built  along  the  coast,  will  pass  along  Sandy 
beach  on  land  between  the  beach  and  the  spot  where  the  remains  of 
Anthony,  the  immigrant,  are  buried.  As  to  this  place,  Mrs.  Grace 
Brackett  Scott,  of  New  Market,  thus  writes  about  it:  — 

"Next  we  drove  to  Rye  and  found  Saltwater  brook  ;  close  by  it, 
between  Brackett  road  (which  was  the  first  road  laid  out  through 
Rye)  and  the  sea,  in  the  salt  marsh,  is  a  little  piece  of  higher  ground 
covered  with  bushes ;  on  parting  the  bushes  we  found  the  rough 
stones  which  mark  the  graves  of  our  ancestor,  Anthony  Brackett, 
and  fourteen  other  victims  of  the  same  massacre.  The  fifteen  graves 
entirely  cover  the  little  knoll  which  is  entirely  surrounded  by  the 
salt  marsh.  My  brother  remarked  that  Anthony  could  not  have 
chosen  a  surer  resting  place  forever  to  lie  undisturbed  by  the  hand  of 
man.  Surely  no  use  will  ever  be  made  of  that  spot  unless  it  becomes 
necessary  for  the  people  of  Rye  to  make  more  laud,  in  which  event 
those  remains  will  be  covered  deeper. 

Saltwater  brook  is  a  small  stream  ;  a  man  can  step  across  it ;  two 
narrow  planks  bridge  it  for  the  carriage  road ;  it  is  between  Concord 
point  and  Straw's  point ;  Concord  point  is  the  same  as  Sander's  point 
and  Straw's  point  is  the  same  as  Jocelyn's  neck  or  Locke's  neck." 

Frequently  it  happens  that  men  in  the  anticipation  of  death,  or 
of  other  unforeseen  and  unexpected  direful  happening,  unknow- 
ingly make  preparation  for  such  calamitous  event  or  make  manifes- 
tations in  some  way  of  their  prescience  of  their  fate.  But  a  few  days 
before  his  death,  viz.,  on  September  n,  1691,  Anthony  Brackett 
executed  his  will.     It  reads  as  follows  :  — 

"In  the  name  of  God,  amen.     Ye  nth  day  of  Sept.,  1691. 

I,  Anthony  Brackett  sen'r,  being  in  perfict  memory  doe  make 
this  my  Last  will  &  testament,  Counting  my  soul  unto  the  hands  of 
my  Redemer,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  &  my  body  to  the  earth. 

Itim  :  I  give  and  bequeath  to  my  daughter  Jane  hains,  fouer 
acors  in  part  of  marsh,  being  more  or  Les,  which  shee  formerly  made 
use  of,  and  so  upward  to  ye  head  of  ye  cove,  and  to  young  oxsen, 
Affter  my  desece. 

Item  :  I  give  and  bequeath  that  three  acres  of  marsh  mor  or 
Les,  being  at  black  poynt,  to  my  daughter,  Ellener  Johnson,  which 
marsh  I  have  a  deed  I  do  assign  over  to  my  daughter,  Ellenor,  and 
she  to  take  it  into  her  possestion  Affter  my  desease. 

Item  :  I  give  and  bequeath  unto  my  grandaughter  kasia  bracket 
three  cows  to  be  payed  at  age  of  Eighteen  years  or  day  of  marridg. 

I  give  to  my  grand  daughter  Roose  Johnson  on  heffer. 

I  give  to  my  grand  son  samuel  bracket  one  heffer,  all  the  Rest  of 
my  cattle  and  sheep  I  doe  give  to  be  Equally  devided  among  the 
Rest  of  my  gran  Children  of  what  is  Leffe  Affter  my  wiffs  deseac.  I 
doo  here  ordain  &  make  my  sonn  John  Bracket,  Executor  of  this  my 
Last  will  &  testament  and  him  to  pay  all  my  Just  debts  &  togather 
all  debts  which  is  Justly  dew  unto  me.  my  housall  goods  I  Leve 
with  my  wiff  for  hur  one  use.     to  this  I  set  my  hand. 

Anthony  Bracket 
Witnesses  A 

Nathaniel  drack  by  his  mark 

John  Lock  present 

major  vaugbn 
portsmth  ye  nth  of  July  1692.  Mr.  Rich,  n  artyn 


ANTHONY,     THE     IMMIGRANT  59 

John  Lock  came  and  made  oath  that  hee  was  present  &  saw 
Anthony  bracket  sign  &  did  declare  the  above  wretten  to  be  his  Last 
will  and  Testament  &  that  hee  was  of  a  well  desposing  mind  at  same 
time  ;  also  testefyeth  that  Nathanel  drack  was  present  &  set  his  hand 
as  a  witness.  John  Pickerin,   Record1"- 

The  testator  disposed  of  but  little  real  estate  by  the  will;  on 
July  20,  1686,  he  deeded  his  farm  and  buildings  at  Sandy  beach  to 
his  son  John,  —  ''grandson  Joshua  to  be  paid  a  portion"  after  decease 
of  himself  and  wife.  It  will  be  observed  that  he  remembered  all  his 
several  grandchildren  in  his  will  though  he  named  but  three,  perhaps 
his  favorites.  He  lived  to  a  ripe  old  age;  sad  was  it,  indeed,  that 
his  lot,  and  that  of  his  aged  wife,  was  not  to  pass  quietly  away  sur- 
rounded by  his  children  and  grandchildren,  instead  of  being  mur- 
dered by  persons  whom  he  never  had  harmed,  and  who,  probably, 
would  never  have  harmed  him  or  his,  had  they  known  him.     Issue  : 

1.  Anthony,  Jr.     See  chapter  III. 

2.  Elinor;   mar.  26  Dec,  1 66 r,  John  Johnson.     Issue: 
1st.     John,  b.  2  Nov.,  1662. 

2d.     Rosamond,  b.  10  June,  1665. 
3d.     Hannah,  b.  7  Feb.,  1670. 
4th.     James,  13  Nov.,  1673. 
5th.     Ebenezer,  b.  in  1676. 
.'!.     Thomas.     See  chapter  IV. 

4.  Jane;  mar.    (1st)    19  Apr.,    1667,   Mathias  Haines;    (2nd)   28 
Dec,  1671,  Isaac  Marston,  b.  1650,  d.  1689.     Issue: 

1st.     Samuel,  b.  22  Dec,  1674. 
2d.     Joshua,  b.  3  Apr.,  1678. 
3d.     Mathias,  b.-in  1679. 
4th.     Jane. 

5.  John.     See  division  I. 


CHAPTER   III. 


CAPTAIN     ANTHONY     BRACKETT    OF     FAL- 
MOUTH. 

It  is  highly  probable  that  Captain  Anthony  Brackett,  son  of 
Anthony,  the  immigrant  (see  chap.  II),  was  born  in  Portsmouth, 
New  Hampshire;  the  year  of  his  birth  is  not  known.  On  July  14, 
1657,  at  Exeter,  New  Hampshire,  an  Anthony  Brackett  took  the 
oath  of  freeman;  the  date  well  accords  with  the  time  when  Captain 
Anthony  became  twenty-one  N^ears  old;  nothing  further  is  known  as 
to  his  residence  in  Exeter.  With  certainty  is  it  known  that  he  was 
past  his  majority  in  1660;  in  February  of  that  year  he  was  granted 
thirteen  acres  of  land  by  the  selectmen  of  Portsmouth,  under  a  pro- 
vision of  a  law  of  the  town  authorizing  the  allowance  of  that  amount 
of  land  to  the  sons  of  settlers  who  were  then  twenty-one  years  of  age. 
In  1662  he  was  in  Casco,  Me.;  on  June  3d  of  that  year  he  witnessed 
the  delivery  of  possession  to  Hope  Allen  of  what  was  known  as  the 
.Bramhall  farm.  Until  his  death  twenty-seven  years  later,  he  was  a 
resident  of  Casco,  or  Falmouth,  where  he  achieved  prominence  in 
public  affairs  second  to  no  person  of  the  town,  and  in  the  extreme 
danger  of  the  destruction  of  the  settlement,  was  one  of  the  leaders  of 
the  inhabitants  and  their  choice  for  captain. 

Directly  upon  his  advent  in  Casco  he  became  involved  in  the 
political  strife  which  rent  its  people  in  factions.  Cleeve  was  weaving 
a  net  about  the  unfortunate  Jordan,  who  at  that  time  was  well  within 
its  meshes  and  giving  vent  to  invectives  against  certain  learned 
deceased  saints  of  the  Bay  colony,  in  particular  the  Rev.  John  Cotton, 
then  dead  some  twenty-odd  years.  His  shrieks  reached  the  ears  of 
Anthony  who,  Episcopalian  though  he  was.  must  be  a  witness  against 
the  Rev.  Robert  Jordan  on  the  charge,  made  by  the  officers  of  the 
Bay  colony,  of  sacrilege  in  denouncing  St.  Cotton  for  a  liar,  etc.;  this 
in  1663.  The  following  year  he  was  chosen  constable.  In  the  year 
1665  the  government  of  the  Bay  colony  was  superseded  by  one  inaug- 
urated by  the  king's  commissioners,  which  continued  until  1668. 
There  is  no  evidence  that  he  held  office  under  the  latter  government; 
it  appears  that  he  was  one  of  the  four  trial  jurors  for  Falmouth,  of  the 
court  of  the  justices  of  the  peace  of  the  several  towns  held  at  Fal- 
mouth (Casco)  in  July,  1666.  At  this  term  of  the  court  one  James 
Robinson,  was  tried  for  the  murder  of  Christopher  Collins  and 
acquitted,  the  jury,  of  which  Anthony  was  one,  finding  that  Collins 
was  "slain  by  misadventure  and  culpable  of  his  own  death." 

There  was  no  party  in  the  province  to  sustain  the  government 
of  the  king's  commissioners;  upon  the  return  of  the  commissioners  to 
England  in  1668,  a  troop  of  horse  and  foot  in  the  sendee  of  the  Bay 
colony  invaded  the  province,  ousted  Henry  Jocelyn,  the  judge  of  the 
court,  '-from  off  the  bench,"  the  assistants  also,  imprisoned  the  officers 
of  the  militia  and  threatened  quite  all  who  opposed  the  interests  of  the 


ANTHONY,     OF     FALMOUTH  61 

Bay  colony,  whose  government  was  reestablished.  Would  that  the 
ould  Cleeve  had  witnessed  the  performance!  Anthony  was  elected 
one  of  the  commissioners  for  Falmouth  and  Scarborough;  was  per- 
haps continued  in  the  office  for  several  years;  the  scraps  of  records  of 
the  town  are  meager  on  quite  all  matters  from  the  year  1668  to  1675. 

Prior  to  1668  Anthony  was  united  in  marriage  with  Ann  Mitton; 
in  that  year  a  child  was  born  to  them;  they  had  five  children  in  1676. 
She  was  deeded  one  hundred  acres  of  land  on  Back  cove  in  1652  by 
her  grandfather,  George  Cleeve.  Said  tract  was  the  nucleus  of  the 
farm  of  four  hundred  acres  occupied  by  Captain  Brackett  as  his  dwell- 
ing place,  and  in  recent  years  known  as  the  Deering  farm.  He 
received  a  grant  from  the  town  of  four  hundred  acres  lying  near  the 
shore  of  Casco  river  opposite  to  the  Neck,  and  bordering  on  Long 
creek.  This  tract  he  sold  in  1671  to  Munjoy.  It  was  the  farm  on 
Back  cove  which  Captain  Brackett  improved;  its  situation  was  highly 
favorable  for  farming  and  stock  raising,  comprised  of  natural  meadow 
and  upland;  it  was  as  desirable  a  tract  as  any  about  the  bay. 

No  settlement  in  the  province  was  the  seat  of  more  intense  politi- 
cal strife  in  time  of  peace  and  of  more  carnage  and  devastation  in 
time  of  war,  than  Falmouth;  from  its  first  settlement  in  1630  for  a 
period  of  one  hundred  years,  with  but  short  intervals — notably  when 
George  Cleeve  was  deputy  president, —  the  inhabitants  knew  not  the 
quietude  of  a  thoroughly  established  government  recognized  by  all 
the  people.  To  1675  the  subject  of  contention  and  fury  of  factions, 
was  as  to  which  or  what  government  of  this  or  that  proprietor  should 
be  recognized;  in  that  year  commenced  troubles  for  the  settlers  of  an 
entirely  different  character  from  what  they  had  experienced;  no  worse 
blight  could  have  befallen  them. 

Until  1675  there  had  been  peace  with  the  Indians  of  Maine. 
The  eastern  Indian  was  certainly  made  of  better  stuff  than  was  his 
red  brother  in  Massachusetts.  Regardless  of  whatever  fears  had  the 
former  of  the  prowess  of  the  Mohawks,  he  had  a  contempt  for  the 
fighting  qualities  of  the  English  settler.  The  pilgrim  or  other  adven- 
turer who,  upon  landing  in  Maine,  after  the  manner  of  those  who 
landed  upon  Plymouth  rock,  first  stopped  to  fall  upon  his  knees  before 
he  fell  upon  the  aborigines,  was  more  apt  to  take  another  fall  and 
remain  prone  than  he  was  to  rise  again.  The  English  in  New  Eng- 
land outnumbered  the  Indians  engaged  in  the  war  in  Maine,  forty 
to  one;  with  these  Indians  a  humiliating  treaty  of  peace  was  made. 
Hostilities  were  commenced  by  the  Indians.  It  is  not  known  that 
there  was  any  preconcert  on  their  part  with  the  braves  of  King  Philip, 
in  waging  war  ;  but  the  settlers  of  Maine  were  directed  by  the  authori- 
ties of  the  Bay  colony  to  pursue  that  high-handed  course  towards 
their  red  neighbors  which  was  its  course  towards  the  friendly  tribes  in 
Massachusetts;  hence,  the  mistake  was  made  in  attempting  to  disarm 
a  foe  with  whom  they  were  not  able  to  cope.  At  the  northern  end  of 
Casco  bay  in  September  1675,  a  small  party  of  Indians  were  attached, 
of  whom  one  was  killed  and  two  were  wounded;-  the  attacking  force 
was  worsted.  Forthwith  the  Indians  made  assaults  on  all  outlying 
settlements,  and  quite  generally  were  successful.  Many  of  the  people 
left  the  province.  During  the  following  winter  the  Indians  offered 
terms  of  peace  after  having  continued  in  their  attacks  until  the  deep 
snow  had  hemmed  them  in  their  villages.     At  the  commencement  of 


62  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

the  year  1676,  the  people  of  New  England  had  before  them  a  gloomy 
future;  nearly  all  the  neighboring  tribes  were  at  war  with  them; 
therefore,  there  was  little  hesitancy  in  making  peace  with  the  victori- 
ous sagamores  of  the  tribes  in  Maine.  It  continued  until  August 
1676,  to  the  day  before  the  great  chief,  King  Philip,  was  slain,  viz. 
Aug.  11,  when  hostilities  were  renewed  by  the  striking  of  a  blow 
at  Falmouth,  ever  to  be  remembered  by  the  descendants  of  Captain 
Brackett  and  his  brother,  Thomas. 

The  historians  of  the  time  have  recorded  in  detail  all  the  inci- 
dents as  to  the  inception  of  the  attack  and  have  interwoven  many 
things  their  fancy  or  misinformation  supplied  ;  so,  we  have  a  mingling 
of  fact  and  romance  as  to  what  befell  Captain  Brackett  and  his 
family. 

During  the  waning  fortunes  of  King  Philip,  some  of  his  veteran 
warriors  sought  refuge  in  New  Hampshire  with  the  friendly  Penacook 
tribe,  by  whom  they  were  surrendered  to  the  English.  One  of  these 
warriors,  named  Simon,  was  lodged  in  the  jail  at  Dover,  from  which  he 
effected  his  escape  and  found  his  way  to  Falmouth.  He  had  a  forged 
passport  which  was  honored  there  only  in  a  measure,  for  he  was  looked 
upon  as  a  suspicious  character ;  messengers  were  dispatched  to  Dover 
where,  perhaps,  his  passport  purported  to  have  been  issued,  to  make 
inquiries  concerning  him.  He  was  placed  in  charge  of  Captain 
Brackett  during  his  stay  at  Falmouth.  On  August  10,  before  the 
return  of  the  messengers,  a  cow  belonging  to  Captain  Brackett  was 
killed.  Simon  volunteered  to  apprehend  the  Indians  who  had  killed 
the  cow,  and  was  allowed  to  depart  from  the  house  for  that  pretended 
purpose.  It  should  be  remembered  that  the  settlers  were  very  careful 
not  to  give  any  offense  to  the  Indians,  who  had  so  lately  proven  them- 
selves very  formidable  antagonists,  and  that,  at  the  time,  the  authori- 
ties of  the  Bay  colon}-  and  the  Indians  were  treating  for  a  continuance 
of  the  peace.  Under  these  conditions,  it  can  with  reason  be  accounted 
as  to  why  Captain  Brackett  permitted  Simon  to  leave  his  house.  On 
August  1 1,  1676,  Simon  returned  with  a  party  of  Indians  and  informed 
Captain  Brackett  that  these  Indians  were  the  ones  who  had  killed  his 
cow ;  they  at  once  seized  all  the  guns  in  sight  and  took  him,  his  wife, 
negro  servant,  and  family,  prisoners.  Nathaniel  Mitton,  his  wife's 
brother,  who  was  in  the  house  and  offered  some  resistance,  was 
instantly  shot.  Simon  asked  Captain  Brackett  if  he  preferred  to  go 
with  the  Indians,  or  to  be  slain;  he  answered,  "If  the  case  was  so, 
he  had  rather  chose  to  serve  them  than  to  be  slain  by  them."  (Hub- 
bard's Indian  Wars,  p.  293.)  It  is  probable  that  the  account  con- 
tained in  the  cited  authority  as  to  the  colloquy  between  the  Indian, 
Simon  and  Captain  Brackett,  is  based  on  the  latter' s  narrative  of  the 
same.  Upon  effecting  this  capture  the  Indians  divided  ;  part  went  to 
the  Neck  to  kill  and  plunder ;  the  rest  passed  around  the  cove  to  the 
Presumpscot  river,  attacking  the  settlers  in  their  course.  The  cap- 
tives were  conducted  to  the  north  side  of  Casco  bajr.  The  Indians 
under  Simon,  who  had  the  captives  in  charge,  were  anxious  to  share 
in  the  great  spoil  from  the  capture  of  the  settlement  on  Arrowsick 
island  at  the  mouth  of  the  Kennebec  river.  This  settlement  was 
destro)red  August  14,  1676. 

The  captives  consisted  of  Captain  Brackett,  his  wife  and  children  ; 
also  of  members  of  the  families  of  his  neighbors  who  had  lived  on  the 


ANTHONY,     OF     FALMOUTH  63 

shores  of  Back  cove.  The  Indians,  in  their  haste  to  join  their  brethren 
who  had  taken  the  fort  at  Arrowsick,  sought  to  disencumber  them- 
selves of  obstacles  that  impeded  their  march.  The  usual  method 
employed  by  the  Indians  in  disposing  of  captives  who  in  any  way 
proved  burdensome  or  an  annoyance,  was  to  murder  them.  All  of 
the  five  children  of  Captain  Brackett  were  small,  were  under  the  age 
of  ten  years,  and  because  of  their  tender  age  would  delay  the  progress 
of  the  Indians  more  than  would  any  of  the  other  captives.  On  this 
occasion  Simon,  perhaps  showed  his  appreciation  of  the  kindness  he 
had  at  some  time  received  from  Captain  Brackett ;  for  he,  his  wife, 
children  and  servant  were  left  on  the  shore  of  the  bay,  as  it  is  related, 
to  follow  after  their  captors.  However,  as  it  appears  that  his  wife 
begged  for  a  piece  of  meat  which  was  given  them,  and  as  it  is  reason- 
able to  suppose  that  had  it  been  expected  they  would  follow  the 
Indians,  they  would  have  been  provided  with  food,  it  is  hazarded  that 
Captain  Brackett,  his  wife,  children  and  servant  were  released  to 
shift  for  themselves.  Others  of  their  captives,  including  women  and 
children,  were  retained  by  the  Indians.  It  thus  seems  probable  that 
the  favor  shown  to  Captain  Brackett  on  this  occasion,  was  in  recogni- 
tion of  some  act  of  his  which  had  won  the  gratitude  of  the  Indians. 

But  few  of  the  houses  of  the  settlers  were  destroyed  in  the  attack 
of  August  ii.  Though  the  Indians  took  with  them  quite  all  the 
valuables  the  houses  contained,  many  articles  of  use  remained  in  and 
about  the  deserted  homes.  In  one  of  them  Ann  Brackett  found 
needles  and  thread  ;  with  these  she,  her  husband  and  the  servant 
patched  an  old  birchen  canoe  until  it  was  serviceable.  In  this  frail 
bark,  she,  the  negro  servant  and  children  rowed  across  Casco  bay, 
some  eight  or  nine  miles,  to  Black  point  where  they  were  taken  aboard 
a  vessel  and  carried  to  "the  Pascatawa"  (Portsmouth),  near  to  the 
very  door  of  the  good  old  grandfather  at  Sandy  beach. 

The  courage  of  despair  made  the  timid  mother  a  heroine,  the 
grief-stricken  father  to  trust  his  wife  and  children  to  the  mercies  of 
the  elements  in  hopes  that  they  may  escape  the  more  certain  dangers 
to  their  lives  if  they  abode  longer  with  him.  No  storm,  not  a  billow, 
was  there  to  threaten  the  overloaded  canoe;  the  winds  were  tem- 
pered, for  the  breeze  but  fanned  the  hot  brows  of  its  occupants;  they 
disappeared  from  the  gaze  of  the  anxious  father  still  lingering  on  the 
beach;  the  stars  shed  their  timely  luster  to  guide  them  aright;  the 
tide  gently  assisted  to  speed  along  the  frail  craft  when  the  wearied 
fugitives  sighed  for  rest.  And,  at  last,  in  sight  is  a  sail, —  the  crew 
answers  their  signals  from  afar.  Safety  and  with  friends  at  last! 
Justly  can  this  mother  be  called  "an  heroic  woman."  (See  Willis' 
History  of  Portland ) . 

The  accounts  we  have  as  to  the  escape  of  the  family  from  the  In- 
dians, are  indefinite  as  to  whether  Captain  Brackett  went  with  the  fam- 
ily in  the  canoe.  The  historians  who  wrote  of  the  affair,  praise  the 
courage  of  his  wife  for  her  daring  deed  in  traversing  the  bay  in  the 
old  leaky  canoe.  From  this  is  inferred  that  he  did  not  accompany 
her  and  the  children.  He  was  skilled  in  woodcraft,  was  familiar  with 
the  lay  of  the  country,  easily  avoided  the  straggling  bands  of  Indians, 
in  time  reached  the  garrison  at  Black  point,  and  thence  proceeded  to 
Sandv  beach. 


04  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Ann  Mitton  Brackett  did  not  long  survive  her  escape  from  cap- 
tivity; her  death  occurred  at  Sandy  beach  about  the  year  1677. 
Captain  Brackett  remarried  November  9,  1678.  Nothing  is  known  as 
to  his  military  services  during  the  remainder  of  the  war.  A  peace 
was  concluded  in  April,  1678,  by  the  terms  of  which  the  settlers  were 
permitted  to  return  and  occupy  their  farms,  on  the  condition  of  each 
paying  a  small  tribute  to  the  Indians.  In  1679,  he  was  at  Falmouth 
and  during  the  following  year  was  appointed  by  the  provincial  gov- 
ernment, commander  of  the  militia  of  the  town  with  the  rank  of 
lieutenant.  From  the  fact  of  his  selection  for  this  position,  it  is 
inferred  that  he  had  won  distinction  as  a  soldier  during  the  war. 

While  the  war  with  the  Indians  was  going  on,  a  complete  change 
had  taken  place  in  the  civil  affairs  of  the  province;  a  revolution  could 
not  have  effected  a  more  radical  one;  it  not  only  extended  to  its  form 
of  government  but  also  to  the  titles  by  which  the  settlers  held  their 
lands,  in  fact,  to  the  estate  they  had  in  their  lands. 

The  colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay  claimed,  under  its  grant,  as  an 
integral  part  of  itself,  the  territory  in  Maine  containing  the  settle- 
ments around  Casco  bay  and  other  settlements  along  the  coast  to  the 
westward  and  by  virtue  of  its  charter,  claimed  a  civil  jurisdiction  over 
said  territory.  In  1676,  it  was  determined  by  the  English  govern- 
ment that  no  part  of  Maine  was  included  in  the  grant  to  the  Bay 
colony ;  thereupon  the  colony  purchased  the  grant  of  said  territory  to 
Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges,  from  his  heir,  and  under  this  purchase 
claimed  the  territory  and  the  right  to  govern  the  same  as  a  proprietor. 
The  English  government  held  that  the  right  to  govern  conferred  upon 
Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges,  could  not  be  alienated  and  that  said  right 
reverted  to  the  crown  upon  the  transfer  of  the  territory  by  its  proprie- 
tor. When  James  II  became  king  the  charter  of,  and  grant  to,  the 
Bay  colony  were  annulled,  and  thereupon  it  was  held  that  the  land 
also  reverted  to  the  crown.  The  foregoing  will  serve  to  enable  the 
reader  to  account  for  the  confusion  and  party  strife  which  existed  in 
Falmouth  from  soon  after  the  peace  of  1678  to  the  time  when  the 
devoted  town  was  destroyed,  and  how  that  it  was  left  to  its  own 
resources  to  combat  a  powerful  foe. 

The  Bay  colony  in  1680  organized  a  proprietary  government  for 
Maine;  it  consisted  of  a  deputy  president,  council  and  a  general 
assembly,  the  latter  composed  of  representatives  from  the  several 
towns.  Falmouth  did  not  send  representatives  to  the  general  assembly 
in  1680;  the  town  first  sent  representatives  in  1681,  one  of  whom  was 
Captain  Brackett;  he  was  selected  for  the  office  in  1682  and  1683. 
In  1680  and  1681,  he  was  one  of  the  selectmen  of  the  town.  In  Sep- 
tember, 1680,  the  Deputy  President  held  court  at  Falmouth;  the  pur- 
pose was  to  assign  a  few  acres  on  the  Neck  in  severalty  to  each  of  the 
settlers  in  the  town,  on  which  to  dwell,  that  they  might  the  more 
readily  assemble  for  their  own  protection.  The  record  of  approval  by 
the  selectmen  of  the  assignment  of  lots,  is  subscribed  thus,  "Anthonie 
Brackett  record."  It  appears  that  the  duty  devolved  on  him  during 
the  years  1680  and  1681,  of  recording  the  grants  of  land  made  b}^  the 
selectmen.  Fort  Loyal  was  erected  on  the  Neck  early  in  1680,  about 
or  near  to  which  the  lots  were  laid  out.  In  1682  a  proposition  was 
made  by  the  provincial  government  to  "Deft.  Brackett"  to  assume  its 
charge.     This   offer  he  probably   accepted,  as  subsequently  he  was 


ANTHONY,     OF     FALMOUTH  65 

empowered  to  impress  men  to  serve  under  him.  At  the  close  of  the 
year  the  selectmen  relieved  a  Henry  Harwood  of  the  command  of  the 
fort,  and  the  position  was  offered  to  "Captain  Anthony  Brackett"  for 
the  ensuing  year.  This  is  the  earliest  mention  of  him  contained  in 
the  records,  as  captain. 

In  1684,  the  proprietor,  the  Bay  colony,  for  the  purpose  of  quiet- 
ing title  to  land  and  making  herself  the  source  from  which  title  to  all 
land  in  the  territory  of  Maine  was  derived,  through  its  government  for 
the  province,  deeded  all  lands  in  the  several  towns  to  trustees 
appointed  for  each  town  respectively ;  among  the  eight  trustees  for 
Falmouth  was  Captain  Brackett ;  in  this  connection  he  was  associated 
with  the  leading  and  most  influential  men  of  the  town.  The  trustees 
in  turn  made  grants  to  the  old  settlers,  of  their  former  possessions,  by 
the  terms  of  which,  there  were  reserved  to  the  proprietor,  small  quit 
rents ;  these  rents  became  the  subject  of  complaints  on  the  part  of  the 
settlers. 

While  the  proprietary  government  of  the  Bay  colony  continued. 
Captain  Brackett  was  one  of  its  loyal  supporters,  and  from  it  and  the 
people  of  the  town,  he  was  the  recipient  of  many  honors.  Said  gov- 
ernment was  to  have  been  superseded  in  1684,  by  one  devised  by  the 
English  government,  under  its  view  that  the  charter  to  Sir  Ferdinando 
Gorges  had  reverted  to  the  crown;  it  was  not  superseded  until  1686, 
and  then  by  a  government  established  by  Sir  Edmund  Andross,  who 
was  appointed  by  the  crown  governor  of  all  New  England.  He 
ruled  Maine  with  the  assistance  of  a  council;  there  was  no  general 
assembly  or  town  organizations.  It  is  not  known  that  Captain 
Brackett  held  any  office  under  this  government.  It  has  been  pub- 
lished that  when  Andross,  in  r688,  constructed  and  garrisoned  forts  at 
different  points  in  the  province,  in  charge  of  the  one  at  Falmouth  he 
placed  Captain  Brackett.  This  is  an  error.  It  was  an  Anthony 
Brockholst  whom  Andross  appointed  to  the  position. 

The  Bay  colony  had  assumed  that  title  to  land  in  the  province, 
was  derived  only  under  her  grants.  Andross  asserted  that  title  to  all 
land  in  the  province  reverted  to  the  crown,  through  the  reversion  of 
the  rights  of  Gorges  to  the  crown  ;  in  effect,  that  the  titles  of  the  set- 
tlers to  their  lands  were  invalid  ;  that,  therefore,  the  settlers  must  pro- 
cure patents  to  their  possessions  from  the  crown.  By  the  process 
which  he  devised  for  granting  patents,  exhorbitant  fees  were  charged 
for  every  step  in  the  proceedings.  The  people  were  unanimous  in 
their  opposition  to  the  tyrannous  course  of  Andross  ;  however,  division 
among  them  arose  from  a  few  of  the  wealthy  and  leading  men  sub- 
mitting to  it  and  advising  others  to  do  the  same,  notably,  Colonel 
Edward  Tyng  and  Captain  Sylvanus  Davis.  The  former  was  a  mem- 
ber of  Andross'  council ;  against  the  latter,  it  was  charged  that  he  had 
profited  through  advising  the  people  to  procure  patents  of  their  lands 
and  charging  fees  for  his  services  in  securing  such  patents  for  them. 
The  people  smothered  their  rage  towards  the  two  while  Andross  was 
in  power ;  upon  his  downfall  they  were  the  subjects  of  most  violent 
opposition  by  a  large  faction. 

Such  was  the  state  of  affairs  when  in  1688,  war  commenced  with 
the  Indians.  Andross  knew  how  to  protect  the  people  in  time  of  war 
quite  as  well  as  he  knew  how  to  extort  money  from  them  ;  he  took 
immediate  and  effective  steps  for  their  preservation.     At  the  head  of 


66  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

seven  hundred  men,  amidst  the  deep  snows  of  winter,  he  marched 
along  the  coast  and  left  an  adequate  garrison  at  every  fortified  post  in 
his  course.  In  the  spring  of  1689  the  government  of  Andross  was 
overturned  by  the  revolutionary  party  in  Boston.  The  Prince  of 
Orange  had  landed  in  England,  and  James  II  was  a  fugitive.  Upon 
the  downfall  of  Andross,  the  troops  which  he  had  placed  in  the  forts  in 
Maine,  mutineered,  deserted,  and  at  some  places  made  prisoners  of 
their  officers.  In  command  of  the  troops  left  at  Falmouth  was  a  Cap- 
tain Lockhart.  By  some  of  the  people  he  was  charged  with  having 
traitorous  communications  with  the  French  and  Indians.  It  is  pleas- 
ing to  record  that,  though  these  unjust  charges  against  Captain  Lock- 
hart  were  made  by  some  of  the  party  of  which  Captain  Brackett  was 
a  leader,  and  while  he,  himself,  was  one  of  the  most  active  and  bitter 
apponents  of  Andross  and  of  those  who  had  in  any  way  been  con- 
nected with  his  government  in  the  province,  he  at  once  wrote  the 
leaders  of  the  insurrection  at  Boston,  that  there  was  no  foundation 
for  the  charges  against  Captain  Lockhart. 

The  faction  opposed  to  Colonel  Tyng  and  Captain  Davis,  bitterly 
denounced  their  course  to  the  insurrectionists,  to  whom  said  faction 
looked,  as  arbiters  of  their  causes  of  complaints  against  the  two.  The 
leaders  of  the  faction  were  Robert  Lawrence  and  Captain  Brackett. 
Messrs.  Tyng  and  Davis  were  in  command  of  the  local  military  force 
by  appointment  of  Andross.  Under  them  the  opposing  faction 
refused  to  serve  ;  in  May,  1689,  they  addressed  a  petition  to  the  insur- 
rectionary leaders  at  Boston,  for  the  appointment  by  them  of  Anthony 
Brackett  as  captain  and  Robert  Lawrence  as  lieutenant.  The  insur- 
rectionists were  without  authority  to  make  any  appointments  what- 
ever. They  did  not  inform  the  petitioners  of  their  want  of  authority 
to  commission  officers  to  command  at  Falmouth,  but  by  letter 
exhorted  the  people  to  bury  their  differences  and  unite  for  their 
defence.  Under  date  of  June  12,  1689,  the  opposing  faction,  through 
Robert  Lawrence,  answered  the  letter  to  the  effect  that  they  would 
serve  under  Colonel  Tyng  but  would  not  be  commanded  by  Captain 
Davis. 

The  situation  at  Falmouth  was  that  the  town  was  without  the 
protection  of  a  proprietor,  or  protection  from  other  source,  and  the 
people  were  hopelessly  divided  at  a  time  when  they  were  threatened 
with  extermination  by  their  former  victorious  foe.  August  2,  the  fort 
at  Pemaquid  across  the  bay  from  Falmouth,  was  taken;  the  fugitives 
sought  safety  at  Falmouth;  it  was  but  a  question  of  time  when  the 
French  and  Indians  would  be  before  the  town.  In  June  1689,  Cap- 
tain Brackett,  Robert  Lawrence  and  another  wrote  the  insurrection- 
ary leaders  for  immediate  assistance  and  set  forth  the  wretched  condi- 
tion they  were  in  from  want  of  men  and  munition.  Upon  the  receipt 
of  the  news  of  the  taking  of  Pemaquid,  the  Bay  colony  saw  the  need 
of  action;  several  companies  were  dispatched  to  protect  the  towns  in 
Maine,  and  two  of  these  companies  commanded  by  Captain  Hall  and 
Captain  Willard,  were  destined  for  Falmouth.  In  September  the  ser- 
vices of  Major  Benjamin  Church  of  the  Plymouth  colony,  were 
secured;  he  had  won  renown  in  King  Philip's  war,  and  now  raised 
volunteer  companies  from  among  his  old  soldiers,  English  and 
friendly  Indians.  The  latter  force  was  sent  by  water  and  arrived  at 
Falmouth   on   September   20;    Captain   Hall's  company  had   arrived 


ANTHONY,     OF     FALMOUTH  67 

shortly  before.  It  was  known  that  hostile  Indians  were  on  Peaks 
island  as  early  as  the  17th,  that  they  had  received  reinforcements 
on  the  20th.  With  the  Indians  were  a  few  French.  Fort  Loyal,  where 
the  English  disembarked,  was  on  the  southerly  side  of  the  Neck  not 
far  from  where  stood  the  house  of  George  Cleeve.  During  the  night 
of  September  20th,  the  Indians  left  Peaks  Island,  rowed  in  a  north- 
easterly course,  entered  Back  cove  and  landed  to  the  east  of  Captain 
Brackett's  farm. 

The  accounts  of  the  skirmish  which  took  place  on  the  morning  of 
the  21st,  contained  in  local  histories,  are  based  on  Major  Church's 
narrative;  it  gives  his  personal  movements,  informs  us  as  to  his  where- 
abouts and  what  he  did  on  the  day,  but  contains  nothing  as  to  his 
intended  plan  of  operations  against  the  enemy,  if  he  had  any.  As 
Captain  Brackett  and  his  sons  took  an  active  part  in  the  skirmish, 
and  as  it  was  alone  due  to  his  foresight  and  tact  that  the  approach 
of  the  Indians  was  discovered,  and  their  contemplated  surprise  of  the 
English  was  thwarted,  it  is  believed  that  an  account  of  the  skirmish 
will  be  of  interest  to  the  reader. 

Either  for  the  purpose  of  concealing  his  forces  from  the  enemy, 
upon  disembarking  after  dark,  or  preparatory  to  making  a  movement 
against  the  enemy,  which,  if  it  were  his  intention  so  to  do,  he  never 
made  it  known,  Major  Church  shortly  before  daylight  marched  his 
men  into  the  woods  about  the  fort.  There  they  appear  to  have  been 
left  with  scouts  out  about  them,  while  the  major  went  to  the  fort  to 
devise  a  method  of  fitting  a  bullet  an  inch  in  diameter  for  use  in  a 
gun  with  a  bore  of  one-half  inch,  the  particulars  of  which  he  gives 
in  full  detail.  He  had  taken  steps  to  conceal,  as  far  as  possible,  the 
number  of  his  troops  from  the  Indians,  if  they  then  knew  he  had 
arrived,  and  was  engaged  in  getting  his  ammunition  in  shape  for  use. 
Nothing  is  given  as  to  his  intended  operations;  what  followed,  after 
his  troops  prepared  for  action — were  marched  to  the  woods  and  con- 
cealed— was  the  unexpected.  His  movements  suggest  that  he 
expected  the  Indians  would  attack  the  fort  by  coming  direct  from 
Peaks  island,  which  was  in  sight  of  his  position  on  the  Neck,  and 
that  he  had  planned  to  give  them  a  surprise  if  they  ventured  to  do  so. 

A  glance  at  a  map  of  Falmouth  and  Casco  bay,  wrill  disclose  that 
an  attempt  by  the  Indians  to  surprise  the  fort  by  landing  on  the 
southerly  side  of  Casco  river,  would  be  futile;  they  would  be  com- 
pelled to  make  a  great  detour  to  effect  a  landing  out  of  view  of  the 
fort,  and  then  to  march  several  miles  up  the  river  to  effect  a  crossing 
and  a  like  distance  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  river  to  reach  the  fort; 
the  distance  was  too  great  to  be  travelled  in  a  night.  An  attempt 
to  land  on  the  Neck  in  canoes  could  easily  be  prevented  by  the  forces 
there,  though  it  appears  that  Major  Church  thought  they  would  make 
such  an  attempt.  For  the  purpose  of  a  surprise,  the  Indians  took  the 
only  course  there  was  for  them  to  pursue  with  any  hope  of  success; 
they  succeeded  in  landing  before  the  break  of  day  within  less  than 
four  miles  of  the  fort,  and  in  their  advance  to  the  fort  from  their  place 
of  landing  their  canoes  would  be  in  their  rear.  That  they  were  not 
successful  in  effecting  a  surprise,  was  solely  due  to  the  foresight  and 
military  sagacity  of  one  man  of  the  English. 

Major  Church  was  directed  by  the  insurrectionary  leaders  at 
Boston  to   consult  on  landing   at   Falmouth,  with   Captain  Sylvanus 


MAP   OF   FALMOUTH    AND  CASCO   BAY. 


ANTHONY,     OF     FALMOUTH  69 

Davis,  who  was  recognized  by  them  as  in  command  of  the  local  forces 
there,  under  his  appointment  from  Andross.  On  the  morning  of 
September  21  (perhaps  from  as  early  as  the  evening  of  the  20th),  Cap- 
tain Brackett  was  at  his  farm  bordering  on  Back  cove;  with  him  were 
his  sons,  Anthony  and  Seth  Brackett,  and  perhaps  his  nephew,  Joshua 
Brackett.  He  was  there  on  military  duty;  the  danger  from  attack  by 
the  Indians  was  too  great  for  him  to  have  resided  on  his  farm. 
Whether  or  not  he  was  at  the  time  under  the  direction  of  any  officer 
in  command  at  Falmouth,  is  not  known.  In  the  report  of  the  losses 
sustained  by  the  English  in  the  battle,  made  by  Major  Church,  he  is 
not  mentioned  as  belonging  to  Captain  Davis'  company.  Had  the 
fact  been  that  he  was  detailed  by  Major  Church  to  perform  the  impor- 
tant service  he  rendered,  Major  Church  would  have  fully  informed  us. 
The  probability  is  that  Captain  Brackett  was  at  his  farm,  pursuant  to 
his  own  plan.  With  certainty  it  is  known  that  he  was  at  the  very 
point  with  a  few  men,  where  should  have  been  placed  a  detachment  to 
guard  against  surprise.  There,  at  his  house,  he  was  killed  in  a  skir- 
mish with  the  advance  of  the  enemy.  His  sons  and  perhaps  his 
nephew,  Joshua  Brackett,  hurried  to  the  Neck  to  Major  Church  and 
gave  the  alarm;  then  the  discovery  of  the  enemy  was  mad  eknown  to 
all  the  forces  on  the  Neck  "by  virtue  of  12  firings" — presumably  12 
muskets  were  discharged  as  the  signal  agreed  upon.  The  sons  made 
their  report  to  Major  Church  to  the  effect  that  the  hostile  Indians 
"were  in  their  father's  orchard."  At  the  time  they  did  not  know 

that  their  father  was  killed;  they  said  he  was  captured.  After  the 
battle,  Major  Church  reported  that  Captain  Brackett  was  either  killed 
or  taken.  Captain  Hall's  company  was  ordered  to  advance  to  meet 
the  Indians  who,  themselves,  upon  their  discovery,  moved  forward  cau- 
tiously and  slowly,  fearing  an  ambush;  and  but  a  short  distance,  for 
the  opposing  forces  met  after  Captain  Hall's  company  had  forded 
Deering  creek.  The  course  pursued  by  Captain  Hall  from  the  fort, 
was  diagonally  across  the  Neck  in  a  northeasterly  direction  to  its 
upper  portion,  to  Deering  creek  which  he  forded  and  then  formed  his 
men  along  its  bank.  Closely  followed  Major  Church's  force  and  a  por- 
tion of  the  local  company,  which  did  not  cross  the  stream  but  formed 
along  the  bank  and  fired  at  the  Indians  over  the  heads  of  Captain 
Hall's  men.  So,  the  battle  was  fought  within  musket  shot  of  the 
stream.  Major  Church  with  his  Plymouth  soldiers,  the  English 
under  Captain  Southworth  and  the  Seconit  Indians  under  Captain 
Numposh,  set  out  on  a  flank  movement;  he  marched  up  the  stream 
three-fourths  of  a  mile  to  where  there  was  a  bridge.  He  informed 
Captain  Hall  of  his  plan,  and  the  enemy  too,  for  he  marched  in  the 
plain  view  of  the  Indians,  his  men  well  strung  along,  hallooing  to 
make  a  formidable  showing. 

Major  Church  is  under  the  impression  that  he  is  outnumbered 
and  his  efforts  are  directed  to  scare  away  the  enemy.  When  he 
reaches  the  bridge  he  finds  that  the  enemy  have  been  there  and  have 
withdrawn  (from  fear  that  their  line  of  retreat  would  be  intercepted 
by  an  advance  of  Captain  Hall).  Major  Church  directs  Captain 
Southworth  with  his  company  to  proceed  down  the  creek  along  the 
marsh  toward  Captain  Hall's  men.  With  the  Seconit  Indians,  Major 
Church  continues  on  his  flank  attack;  moves  slowly  at  first,  then  gets 
thoroughly  bewildered.     His  scouts  inform  him  that  he,  himself,  is 


70  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

being  outflanked,  that  the  enemy  are  making  for  the  bridge;  back 
he  goes  to  the  bridge,  asks  the  men  left  to  guard  it  if  they  had  seen 
Indians;  they  answered  that  they  had  seen  plenty  of  Indians  (they 
had  not  seen  a  hostile  Indian)  further  up  stream,  crossing  through  a 
cedar  swamp  and  making  for  the  fort.  Double-quick  for  the  fort  goes 
Major  Benjamin,  his  braves  at  his  heels,  to  near  Clark's  point  (where 
Thomas  Brackett  had  lived)  where  the  cattle  are  feeding  quietly. 
These  cattle  had  seen  no  bad  -Indians.  Round  about  and  back  to  the 
bridge  goes  Major  Benjamin.  At  the  bridge  and  while  on  the  return 
trip,  the  major  hears  big  guns  at  the  fort — or  thinks  he  does.  Big 
guns  fired  at  the  fort  is  the  signal  that  the  fort  is  attacked.  Of 
course  there  is  where  the  enemy  is!  Away  goes  Captain  Numposh's 
company  for  the  fort,  and  Major  Benjamin  hastens  to  where  Captain 
Hall  is,  to  follow  with  the  troops  there.  Captain  Hall  informs  him 
that  within  less  than  an  hour  after  he  had  left  to  go  up  the  stream 
to  the  bridge,  the  Indians  withdrew  and  had  not  fired  another  shot. 
Major  Church  declared  that  it  was  the  first  time  the  Eastern  Indians 
had  been  put  to  flight,  and  that  they  were  made  to  flee  ''with  shame, 
who  never  gave  one  shout  at  their  drawing  off. ' ' 

The  Indians,  upon  learning  that  there  was  a  large  force  on  the 
Neck,  quietly  withdrew  and  left  Major  Benjamin  to  war  with  his 
phantasies.  It  was  never  known  that  the  Indians  experienced  any 
loss.  The  English  lost  ten  killed  and  eleven  wounded;  the  killed 
were  among  Captain  Hall's  men  and  the  local  company;  six  friendly 
Indians  were  wounded.  The  deposition  of  one,  B.  York,  made  in 
1759,  affords  specific  information  as  to  the  fate  of  Captain  Brackett;  it 
reads  that  deponent  remembers  that  "George  Bramhall  was  shot  by 
the  Indians  *  *  *  over  on  Captain  Brackett's  farm,  and  said  Brackett 
was  also  killed  at  the  same  time  at  his  house  at  Back  cove."  The 
house  of  Captain  Brackett  stood  on  a  ridge  a  short  distance  from  the 
Deering  mansion  site. 

Major  Church  did  not  leave .  Falmouth  to  return  to  Plymouth 
until  November,  1689.  On  the  13th  of  that  month,  shortly  prior  to 
his  departure,  a  council  of  war  was  held  at  Falmouth.  There  were 
present  Captains  Davis,  William  Bassett,  Simon  Willard  and  Nathan- 
iel Hall ;  Lieutenants  Thaddeus  Clark,  Elisha  Andrews,  George  Inger- 
soll  and  Ambrose  Davis ;  Messrs.  Elihu  Gullison,  Robert  Lawrence, 
John  Palmer  and  others.  Absent,  Captain  Anthony  Brackett  of  Fal- 
mouth, but  his  absence  was  accounted  for.  The  man  capable  of  suc- 
cessfully defending  Falmouth,  was  dead. 

The  second  wife  of  Captain  Brackett  was  Susannah  Drake,  b. 
about  1652;  mar.  (2nd)  30  Oct.,  1700,  John  Taylor  of  Hampton,  and 
d.  4  Nov.,  1 7 19;  was  daughter  of  Abraham  Drake;  he  was  b.  about 
1621,  resided  in  Hampton;  his  wife's  Christian  name  was  Jane  (she 
died  25  Jan.,  1676);  was  son  of  Robert  Drake;  he  was  b.  in  1580,  in 
Devon,  England,  came  to  New  England  in  1643,  and  d.  14  Jan.,  1668. 

Shortly  after  his  second  marriage  Captain  Brackett,  by  deed  to  a 
trustee,  settled  upon  his  wife  "by  way  of  jointure"  in  one-half  of  his 
lands  "and  housing  which  I  have  in  Casco  bay  *  *  *  and  to  be  and 
to  remain  to  her  and  her  male  heirs  begotten  of  her  bod}'  by  me." 

There  was  a  dispute  between  Zachariah  Brackett,  son  by  the 
second  marriage,  and  the  children  by  the  first  marriage,  about  the 
title  to  the  farm  on  Back  cove,   the  latter  contending:  that  the  land 


ANTHONY,     OF     FALMOUTH  71 

belonged  to  their  mother  and  that  their  father  could  not  dispose  of  the 
farm.     The  matter  was  amicably  settled. 

Though  the  births  of  the  children  by  the  second  marriage  are 
recorded  in  Hampton,  they  were  probably  born  in  Falmouth ;  in  the 
latter  place  the  family  resided.  Upon  Captain  Brackett's  death  in 
1689,  the  widow  and  her  children  returned  to  Hampton;  the  children 
by  the  first  marriage,  except  Seth,  went  to  Boston  where  they  married  ; 
none  of  the  latter  ever  returned  to  Falmouth  to  reside. 

Issue  by  wife,  Ann  Mitton,  not  in  order  of  birth. 

1.  Elinor;  mar.  (1st)  her  cousin,  James  Andrews,  son  of  James, 
Sr.  ;  (2nd)  6  Dec,  1705,  Richard  Pulling,  a  widower,  of  Boston,  b. 
1665  ;  d.  6  Feb.,  1721  ;  several  times  he  was  licensed  to  sell  liquors; 
in  1716  occupied  the  "Exchange  Tavern;"  at  one  time  kept  the  noted 
"Green  Dragon  ;"  upon  his  death  she  was  granted  license  ;  same  year 
was  admitted  into  First  church  ;  was  living  in  1731 . 

2.  vSeth,   killed  by  the  Indians  in  May,  1690,  at  Falmouth. 

3.  Mary,  unmar.  in  1 7 1 7,  and  living  in  Boston;  later  mar. 
Nathaniel  Witcher  of  Salisbury. 

4.  Anthony,  b.  in  1669.     See  chapter  V. 

5.  Kezia;  mar.  (1st)  Patterson;  (2nd)  in  1 715,  Joseph  Maylem, 
a  bricklayer  of  Boston.  In  17 19  Zachariah  Brackett  mortgaged  the 
farm  at  Back  cove  to  him  and  Richard  Pulling.  In  will  of  Kezia, 
probated  in  1732,  are  named  sister  Elinor  Pulling  and  sister  Mary 
Witcher  of  Salisbury. 

By  wife,  Susannah  Drake: 

6.  Zipporah,  b.  28  Sept.,  1680;  d.  19  Aug.,  1756;  mar.  1  Apr., 
169-,  Caleb  Towle,  b.  14  May,  1678;  d.  20  Sept.,  1763;  resided  in 
Hampton.  Children  were  :  Philip,  Elizabeth,  Caleb,  Anthony,  Zach- 
ariah, Mathias,  Jeremiah,  Francis,  Hannah,  Nathaniel,  Abraham, 
Samuel. 

7.  Zachariah,  b.  20  Jan.,  1682.     See  chapter  VI. 

8.  Jane,  b.  7  Feb.,  1684. 

9.  Ann,  b.  18  June,  1686;  d.  10  Feb.,  1748;  mar.  20  Feb.,  1 717, 
James  Leavitt,  b.  10  Nov.,  1652;  d.  13  Apr.,  1760. 

10.  Sarah,  b.  16  Mar.,  1688;  mar.  Samuel  Proctor;  he  came  to 
Falmouth  about  17 13;  was  son  of  John  and  grandson  of  John,  the 
immigrant,  who  lived  in  Salem,  Mass.,  and  there  in  1692,  lost  his  life 
in  his  efforts  to  abate  prosecutions  for  witchcraft.  She  was  a  member 
of  the  church  in  Falmouth  in  1736.  Children  were  John,  b.  1715; 
Benjamin,  b.  17 1 7  ;  Samuel,  Jr.,  b.  1719;  Sarah,  b.  1723;  mar.  John 
Cox,  son  of  John,  and  had  Josiah,  Mary,  Kezia  and  Keren;  William, 
b.  1724;  Kezia,  b.  1727;  Kerenhappuck,  b.  1729;  mar.  (1st)  Joseph 
Hicks;    (2nd)  Anthony  Brackett  (see  fam.  1,  div.  15). 

11.  Susannah,  b.  29  Aug.,  1689  ;  mar.  30  Jan.,  17 18,  Jasper  Blake  ; 
removed  to  Falmouth  where  she  united  with  the  First  church  in  1739. 


CHAPTER    IV. 


THOMAS    BRACKETT    OF    FALMOUTH. 

Thomas  Brackett,  the  second  son,  and  perhaps  the  third  child  of 
Anthony  Brackett,  the  immigrant  (see  chapter  II),  was  probably 
born  at  Sandy  beach,  then  of  the  town  of  Strawberry  Bank  (Ports- 
mouth), now  a  part  of  the  present  town  of  Rye,  in  New  Hampshire, 
about  the  year  1635,  if  not  earlier,  and  removed  to  Casco,  Me.,  soon 
after  1662.  Little  is  known  of  him  prior  to  his  marriage  to  Mary 
Mitton,  daughter  of  Michael  Mitton.  Subsequent  to  this  event  he 
became  prominent  in  the  town,  was  one  of  the  selectmen  in  1672. 
His  wife's  mother,  Elizabeth  Mitton,  daughter  of  George  Cleeve, 
married  for  her  second  husband,  a  Mr.  Harve}-.  Mrs.  Harvey  Hved 
with  Thomas  in  167 1;  during  that  year  he  entered  into  an  agreement 
for  her  care  and  maintenance,  and  in  consideration  received  from  her 
a  deed  of  land.  The  tract  was  situated  on  the  southerly  side  of  the 
upper  part  of  the  Neck;  it  had  been  occupied  by  Michael  Mitton  for 
several  years.  The  house  stood  near  to  where  the  gas  house  is  in 
Portland.  There  is  no  doubt  that  Thomas  prospered  in  his  under- 
takings; how  well  is  shown  by  his  marriage  into  the  Cleeve-Mitton 
family  and  by  his  having  been  chosen  as  selectman.  The  office  at 
the  time  was  an  important  one,  as  the  selectmen  of  the  town  were 
authorized  to  make  grants  of  land  in  the  town.  While  he  held  the 
office  in  1672,  his  brother  Anthony  received  a  grant  of  four  hundred 
acres.  As  to  how  long  he  held  the  office  or  as  to  what  other  office  he 
held,  nothing  is  known,  as  the  records  of  the  town  covering  the  period, 
are  not  extant.  Probably  there  were  few  men  in  Casco  who  had 
brighter  prospects  before  them  or  were  more  happily  situated  than  he, 
when  the  fateful  year,  1676,  brought  ruin,  desolation  and  death  to  his 
and  him. 

When,  on  the  capture  of  Captain  Anthony  Brackett  and  his  fam- 
ily, August  11,  1676,  the  Indians  divided,  a  part  passing  around  Back 
cove  and  a  part  onto  the  Neck,  the  first  house  in  the  course  of  the 
latter  was  Thomas  Brackett's,  on  the  southerly  side  of  the  Neck. 
Between  the  houses  of  the  two  brothers,  was  an  unbroken  forest.  The 
accounts  relative  to  their  line  of  march  are  conflicting.  It  is  thought 
that  the  Indians  went  along  the  northerly  side  of  the  Neck  until  they 
had  passed  the  farm  of  Thomas  Brackett.  In  their  course  they  met 
John,  the  son  of  George  Munjoy,  and  another,  Isaac  Wakely,  and 
shot  the  two.  Others  who  were  with  or  near  them,  fled  down  the 
Neck  to  give  the  alarm,  and  thereupon  the  Indians  retreated  in 
the  direction  of  Thomas  Brackett's  house.  That  morning  three 
men  were  on  their  way  to  Anthony  Brackett's  farm  to  harvest  grain. 
They  probably  rowed  over  the  river  from  Purpooduck  point  and  had  left 
their  canoe  near  Thomas  Brackett's  house.  From  there  they  crossed 
the  Neck  towards  Anthony's  house,  to  where  they  went  near  enough  to 
learn  of  the  attack  by  the   Indians  on  his  family;  the  three  hastened 


THOMAS,     OF     FALMOUTH  73 

onto  the  Neck,  perhaps  over  the  course  pursued  by  the  Indians,  to 
give  the  alarm.  On  their  way  they  heard  guns  fired  "whereby  it 
seems  two  men  (perhaps  Munjoy  and  Wakely)  were  killed."  There- 
upon the  three  fled  in  the  direction  of  Thomas  Brackett's  house  to 
reach  their  canoe.  The  Indians  reached  the  farm,  nearly  at  the  same 
time  as  did  the  men,  who  saw  Thomas  Brackett  shot  down  while  at 
work  in  his  field.  Two  of  the  men  succeeded  in  reaching  the  canoe; 
the  third,  not  so  fleet  of  foot,  hid  in  the  marsh  and  witnessed  the  capture 
of  Thomas  Brackett's  wife  and  children.  The  three  men  escaped. 
Among  the  Indians  who  were  concerned  in  the  killing  of  Thomas 
Brackett,  was  Megunnaway,  one  of  the  braves  of  King  Philip.  All 
of  the  residents  on  the  Neck,  except  Thomas  Brackett,  his  family, 
John  Munjoy  and  Isaac  Wakely,  succeeded  in  reaching  Munjoy's 
garrison  house,  which  stood  on  Munjoy's  hill  at  the  end  of  the  Neck. 
From  there  they  passed  over  to  Bangs'  Island,  then  called  Andrew's 
Island.  Among  the  fugitives  were  Lieutenant  Thaddeus  Clark  and  his 
family.  While  thus  huddled  on  the  island,  Clark  wrote  a  letter  to 
Mrs.  Harvey,  then  living  in  Boston.  So  accurately  does  it  describe  the 
horrors  of  the  day  and  the  deplorable  situation  of  the  survivors,  that 
a  copy  is  here  given: 
"Honored  mother  — 

After  my  duty  and  my  wife's  presented  to  your  selfe  these  may 
inform  you  of  our  present  health,  being  when  other  of  our  friends  are 
by  barberous  heathen  cut  off  from  having  a  being  in  this  world.  The 
Lord  of  late  hath  removed  his  witnesses  against  us,  and  hath  dealt 
very  bitterly  with  lis  in  that  we  are  deprived  in  the  Society  of  our 
nearest  friends  by  the  breaking  in  of  the  adversare  against  us. 
Anthony  and  Thomas  Brackett  and  their  whole  families  were  killed 
and  taken  by  the  Indians,  we  know  not  how;  it  is  certainly  known  to 
us  that  Thomas  is  slain  and  his  wife  and  children  carried  away  cap- 
tive ;  and  of  Anthony  and  Ins  family  we  have  no  tidings,  and.  there- 
fore, think  that  they  might  be  captivated  the  night  before  because  of 
their  remoteness  of  their  habitation  from  the  neighbourhood  *  *  * 
There  are  of  men  slain,  1 1  ;  and  of  women  and  children  23  killed  and 
taken.  We  that  are  alive  are  forced  upon  Mr.  Andrew's,  his  island  to 
secure  our  own  and  the  lives  of  our  families  *  *  *  .  Having  no  more 
at  present,  but  desiring  your  prayers  to  God  for  the  preservation  of  us 
in  these  times  of  danger,  I  am. 

Your  dutiful  son 
From  Casco  Bay  14-6-76.  Thaddeus  Clark." 

Thomas  Brackett  was  about  forty  years  old  at  the  time  of  his 
death.  His  wife,  we  are  informed,  died  during  the  first  year  of  her 
captivity.  During  the  course  of  the  war,  probably  after  her  death, 
the  children  were  redeemed  by  their  grandfather,  Anthony  Brackett. 

Following  futile  efforts  to  negotiate  a  peace  with  the  Indians,  the 
Bay  colony  sent  a  force,  under  the  command  of  Major  Waldron  and 
Major  Frost,  against  the  Indians  at  Maquoit  bay,  where  it  arrived 
in  Feb.,  1677;  there  were  skirmishes  and  minor  conflicts  resulting  in 
no  particular  advantage  to  either  side.  One  of  the  purposes  of  the 
expedition  also,  was  to  conclude  a  treaty  of  peace.  In  the  latter  part 
of  February,  the  Indians  met  the  English  at  Pemaquid  to  enter  into 
negotiations,  as  the  former  pretended  ;  that  neither  had  any  confidence 


74  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

in  the  other  is  shown  by  the  agreement  that  each  party  was  to  lay 
aside  its  arms  and  submit  to  a  mutual  search.  At  the  meeting  in  the 
afternoon  of  Feb.  26,  1677,  "Waldron  espying  the  point  of  a  lance 
under  a  board,  searched  further  when  he  found  other  weapons  hidden 
also,  and  taking  one  he  brandished  it  toward  them  exclaiming  'perfide- 
ous  wretches  you  intended  to  get  our  goods  and  then  kill  us  did  you?' 
They  were  thunder-struck !  Yet  one  more  daring  than  the  rest  seized 
the  weapon  and  strove  to  rest  it  from  Waldron' s  hand;  a  tumult 
ensued  in  which  his  life  was  much  endangered.  Major  Frost  laying 
hold  of  Megunnaway,  one  of  the  barberous  murderers  of  Thomas 
Brackett  and  his  neighbors,  hurried  him  into  the  hold  of  the  vessel 

*  ;  reenforcements  arrived  from  the  vessels  and  the  Indians  scat- 
tered in  all  directions  *  *  *  Megunnaway,  grown  hoary  in  crimes, 
was  shot."  ("Williamson's  History  of  Maine,  Vol  I,  p.  547,  citing 
Hubbard's  Indian  Wars.) 

Thomas  Brackett  had  at  least  four  children,  all  born  in  Falmouth. 
William  Willis,  in  his  History  of  Portland,  on  the  authority  of  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Hubbard,  author  of  Hubbard's  Indian  Wars,  mentions  three 
children  only,  viz.,  Joshua,  Sarah  and  Mary.  In  Chapman's  Descend- 
ants of  Leonard  Weeks,  it  is  stated  that  Thomas  Brackett  had  four 
children ;  that  his  wife  and  three  children  were  carried  into  captivity, 
which  children  wTere  redeemed  by  their  grandparents.  In  Austin's 
One  Hundred  and  Sixty  Allied  Families,  we  read  that  Thomas 
Brackett  was  killed  August  11,  1676  ;  "that  his  wife  died  the  same  year 
shortly  after  her  return  from  captivity  and  the  children  went  to  Ports- 
mouth, probably  to  the  care  of  their  grandfather.  Three  children  are 
mentioned  as  captured ;  but  to  this  number  should  be  added  a  fourth, 
doubtless,  viz.,  Samuel,  for  he  could  have  been  the  son  of  none  other 
than  Thomas,  as  Anthony  Jr.,  had  no  son  Samuel  and  John  could 
hardly  have  had  children  born  early  enough." 

John,  the  son  of  Anthony,  himself  had  a  son  Samuel.  The  name 
was  not  that  of  any  member  of  the  family  at  the  birth  of  Samuel,  the 
son  of  John,  other  than  of  Samuel,  the  son  of  Thomas.  It  is  pre- 
sumed, as  the  latter  for  a  time  lived  with  John  at  the  home  of 
Anthony,  the  immigrant,  in  Portsmouth,  that  John  named  his  son 
Samuel  for  his  nephew  Samuel.  The  first  mention  of  Samuel  in 
existing  records,  is  that  of  his  marriage  in  1694,  in  Berwick,  then  a 
part  of  the  town  of  Kittery.  It  is  believed  that  from  a  period  in  his 
childhood,  until  about  the  time  of  his  marrige,  he  lived  with  his  aunt 
Martha,  the  wife  of  John  Grove  or  Graves.  Also,  one  of  the  daughters 
of  Thomas  resided  in  Kittery  after  her  marriage,  and,  perhaps,  for  a 
time  prior  to  her  marriage.  James  H.  Brackett,  the  father  of  the 
writer,  was  born  in  1807.  He  lived  with  his  grandfather,  Deacon 
James  Brackett,  for  seventeen  years  (in  his  father's  home),  until  the 
latter's  death  in  1825,  past  the  age  of  ninety-eight  years;  his  oppor- 
tunity for  information  as  to  his  ancestry  was  excellent,  as  his  grand- 
father, Deacon  James  Brackett,  had  lived  with  his  grandfather,  the 
said  Samuel  Brackett,  from  1725  until  his  death  in  1753.  Whatever 
doubts  may  arise  from  lack  of  record  evidence  showing  that  Samuel 
Brackett  was  a  son  of  Thomas  Brackett,  they  are  dispelled  by  the  force  of 
the  testimony  of  James  H.  Brackett  upon  this  point,  as  competent  as 
he  was  to  testify  thereon.  He  stated  that  Thomas  Brackett  who  was 
killed  at  Casco,  was  his  ancestor;  that  Samuel  Brackett  of  Berwick 


THOMAS,     OF     FALMOUTH  75 

was  said  Thomas'  son.  His  source  of  information  was  his  grand- 
father, Deacon  James  Brackett,  who  had  talked  with  his  grandfather, 
Samuel  Brackett  of  Berwick.  No  oral  tradition  could  be  more  cer- 
tain and  positive. 

It  would  be  supposed  that  records  of  deeds  show  the  relation- 
ship between  Joshua  of  Greenland,  and  Samuel  of  Berwick,  as  the 
former  purchased  the  interests  of  his  mother's  heirs  in  the  Mitton 
estate.  The  record  of  one  deed  only,  that  of  Mary  Mitchell  to  Joshua, 
is  found.     Issue  : 

1.  Joshua.     See  chapter  VII. 

2.  Sarah;  mar.  John  Hill  of  Portsmouth  ;  perhaps  he  was  the  John 
Hill  who  served  with  Joshua  in  the  garrison  at  Oyster  river. 

3.  Samuel,  b.  in  1672.     See  chapter  VIII. 

4.  Mary;  mar.  Christopher  Mitchell  of  Kittery,  who  d.  in  1743; 
she  d.  before  1694,  as  he  had  son  b.  in  that  year  by  a  2nd  wife;  had 
dau.  Mary  who  mar.  14  Nov.,  17 — ,  Chas.  Brown.  In  deed  dated 
18  Nov.,  1709,  made  by  Christopher  Mitchell  as  guardian,  is  recited 
that  he  was  formerly  mar.  to  Mary  Brackett,  dau.  of  Thomas,  by 
whom  he  had  dau.  Mary,  and  deed  was  made  to  release  daughter's 
share  in  estate  of  Thomas  to  Joshua  Brackett  of  Greenland. 


CHAPTER  V. 


ANTHONY   BRACKETT,   THE    SOLDIER, 

Captain  Anthony  Brackett  was  born  in  Falmouth,  Me.,  in  the  year 
1669,  was  the  son  of  Captain  Anthony  Brackett  and  wife  Ann  Mitton. 
The  story  of  his  life  until  he  arrived  at  the  age  of  twenty  years,  is 
given  in  chapter  III.  Upon  the  death  of  his  father,  he  and  his 
brother  Seth  continued  in  Falmouth  until  the  one  was  killed  and  the 
other  was  captured  upon  the  surrender  of  fort  Loyal  in  May,  1690. 
Other  members  of  the  family  at  the  time  were  either  in  Boston  or 
Hampton;  the  two  remained  to  help  defend  the  town.  There  were  in 
Falmouth,  upon  the  departure  of  Major  Church  in  November  1689, 
a  company  of  soldiers,  which,  together  with  the  local  company,  if 
ably  commanded,  would  have  been  sufficient  to  defend  it.  However, 
as  it  transpired,  the  company  of  soldiers  was  absent  from  Falmouth 
on  an  expedition,  when  in  May  1690,  the  French  and  Indians 
attacked  the  fort.  Lieutenant  Thaddeus  Clark  and  a  force  of  thirty 
men  of  the  local  company,  were  ambushed,  and  he  and  thirteen  of  his 
men  were  killed.  His  command  is  mentioned  as  being  composed  of  the 
"stoutest  young  men."  It  is  probable  that  the  brothers  served  under 
Clark,  who  was  husband  to  their  aunt.  Four  only  of  the  command 
reached  the  fort,  and  they  were  wounded.  The  siege  began  on  the  16th 
of  May,  and  the  fort  was  surrendered  on  the  20th.  Seth  Brackett  was 
killed  during  the  siege  or  at  the  time  Clark's  force  was  ambushed. 
Capt.  Brackett  was  made  prisoner  on  the  surrender  of  the  fort. 
Nearly  all  the  prisoners  were  carried  to  Canada;  he  remained  with  the 
Indians  in  Maine  until  September,  1690,  when  he  effected  his  escape, 
the  particulars  of  which  are  related  as  follows: 

In  September,  1690,  Major  Church  went  on  his  third  expedition 
to  Maine;  he  landed  at  Maquoit  where  he  left  his  ships  and  proceeded 
up  the  Androscoggin  river  for  forty  miles,  to  where  was  an  Indian 
fort,  which  he  captured  with  some  prisoners.  One  of  thein  was  called 
Great  Tom;  he  effected  his  escape  and  found  his  way  to  a  party  of 
Indians  that  held  Captain  Brackett  a  prisoner,  to  whom  (writes  one 
historian)  Great  Tom  told  such  wonderful  stories  of  the  famous 
Church  that  they  fled,  leaving  Capt.  Brackett  to  shift  for  himself. 
Another  historian  has  it,  that  on  hearing  the  story  from  Great  Tom, 
of  the  defeat  of  his  party  on  the  taking  of  the  fort,  the  Indians  "fled 
that  region,"  and  during  their  flight  Anthony  effected  his  escape. 
Major  Church's  account  is  that  Captain  Brackett,  guided  and  advised 
by  Great  Tom,  reached  the  shipping  at  Maquoit  in  time  to  be  taken 
on  board  of  one  of  the  ships,  which,  through  the  opposition  of  its  cap- 
tain to  a  plan  for  an  attack  by  Major  Church,  had  become  aground 
and  thus  was  detained  until  Captain  Brackett  arrived.  Had  he 
missed  the  vessel,  he  would  have  been  compelled  to  travel  eighty  miles 
to  the  nearest  English  settlement.     Perhaps  Great  Tom  and  Captain 


ANTHONY,     THE     SOLDIER  77 

Brackett  were  acquaintances;  after  the  former  escaped  from  the  force 
under  the  command  of  Church,  in  his  wanderings  he  met  the  latter, 
who  had  recently  escaped  from  the  Jndians;  the  two  exchanged  infor- 
mation; Captain  Brackett  directed  Great  Tom  to  the  band  of  Indians 
which  had  held  him  captive,  and  Great  Tom  informed  him  that  the 
vessels  of  Captain  Church  were  anchored  at  Maquoit  bay. 

Major  Church  from  Maquoit  proceeded  to  Winter  Harbor  (near 
Saco)  where  he  had  a  skirmish  with  the  Indians;  returned  to  Casco 
bay  and  for  the  night  anchored  at  Purpooduck  point.  A  portion  of  his 
men  were  encamped  on  the  shore  in  a  deserted  house.  At  dawn  of 
September  21,  1690,  these  were  attacked  by  Indians  who  were  driven 
off  with  some  loss;  five  of  the  English  were  killed.  After  this  skir- 
mish Major  Church  collected  and  buried  the  mouldering  bones  of  the 
people  who  were  slain  during  the  siege  of  fort  Loyal.  Falmouth  was 
the  scene  of  no  more  engagements  during  the  war. 

The  following  account  is  of  interest;  nothing  is  vouched  for  its 
truthfulness.  It  is  from  the  pen  of  the  "sullen  bigot,"  Cotton 
Mather. 

"The  Indians,  as  the  captives  inform  us,  being  hungry  passed 
through  deserted  Casco  where  they  spied  several  horses  in  Captain 
Brackett's  orchard.  Their  famish' d  squa's  begged  them  shoot  the 
horses  that  they  might  be  revived  with  a  little  roast  meat;  but  the 
young  men  were  for  having  a  little  sport  before  their  supper. 
Driving  the  horses  into  a  pond  they  took  one  of  them  and  furnished 
him  with  an  halter  suddenly  mack-  with  the  mane  and  the  tail  of  the 
animal,  which  they  cut  off.  A  son  of  the  famous  Hegon  was  ambi- 
tious to  mount  the  Pegaseaen  steed;  but  being  a  pitiful  horseman,  he 
ordered  them,  for  fear  of  his  falling,  to  tie  his  legs  fast  under  the 
horse's  belly.  No  sooner  was  this  'beggar  on  horseback'  and  the 
spark,  in  his  own  opinion  thoroughly  equipt,  but  the  mettlesome 
horse  furiously  and  presently  ran  with  him  out  of  sight.  Neither 
horse  nor  man  were  ever  seen  any  more;  the  astonish 'd  tawnies 
howl'd  after  one  of  their  nobility  disappearing  by  such  an  unexpected 
accident.  A  few  days  after  they  found  one  of  his  legs,  and  that  was 
all,  which  they  buried  in  Captain  Brackett's  cellar,  with  abundance 
of  lamentation." 

Captain  Brackett  enlisted  in  the  service  of  the  Bay  colony ;  was 
appointed  lieutenant,  and,  later,  captain.  The  colony  kept  four  com- 
panies in  the  western  part  of  Maine  from  the  Piscataqua  river  to  the 
town  of  Wells.  Major  Church  said  of  him,  "he  has  proved  a  good 
pilot  and  captain  for  his  country."  One  of  the  historians  of  the  day 
wrote  of  him,  "this  Mr.  Brackett  was  improved  in  the  service  in  pur- 
suing those  that  had  been  the  murderers  of  his  father." 

In  October  1694,  he  was  stationed  at  York.  The  governor,  Wil- 
liam Phipps,  had  received  news  of  a  premeditated  attack  by  the 
French  and  Indians;  he  advised  Major  Francis  Hooke  at  Kittery,  and 
through  him,  the  other  commanders  stationed  in  Maine.  By  Major 
Hooke  a  copy  of  the  governor's  letter  was  forwarded  to  Lieutenant 
Anthony  Brackett  and  Lieutenant  Abraham  Preble  (at  York)  with 
direction  to  forward  same  to  the  officers  at  Wells  and  Saco.  Subse- 
quently, he  was  promoted  to  the  rank  of  captain.  The  post  at  Wells 
was  the  most  easterly  of  those  continuously  occupied  by  the  English 
until  the  treaty  of  peace.     It  was  the  most  liable  to  be  attacked;  its 


78  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

loss  would  result  in  the  evacuation  of  a  large  section  of  country  and 
perhaps,  eventually,  of  the  entire  province.  There  was  no  person  in 
the  service  better  fitted  for  the  command  at  Wells  than  Captain 
Brackett,  and  to  the  place  he  had  been  assigned  as  early  as  1696,  as 
the  following  shows: 

"October  29,  1696,  according  to  order  of  Rt.  Hon.  Lt.  Gov.  for 
detaching  four  soldiers  for  release  of  four  at  Wells,  bearing  date  24 
Dec.  1696,  in  pursuance  whereof  by  my  orders  Sam'l  Norton,  John 
Grely,  Israel  Hoyt  and  Nath'l  Osgood  were  detached  26  Dec.  1696, 
and  sent  to  Wells  to  Captain  Brackett,  under  conduct  of  Mr.  Isaac 
Morrell  to  relieve  Jacob  Morrell,  John  Osgood,  Sam'l  Collins  and 
Hezekiah  Purrington."  (Extract  from  order  book  of  Captain  Henry 
True  of  Salisbury.) 

In  July,  1696,  upon  the  fall  of  fort  William  Henry  at  Pemaquid, 
Me.,  there  were  apprehensions  that  the  French  and  Indians  might 
advance  to  the  Piscataqua  River ;  steps  were  immediately  taken  to 
reinforce  the  troops  stationed  at  Wells  and  to  the  westward  along  the 
coast.  The  command  of  the  army  was  given  to  Major  Church. 
With  the  troops  raised  in  Massachusetts  he  sailed  to  the  Piscataqua 
river,  and  at  Portsmouth  met  the  companies  which  had  been  on  duty 
in  the  towns  in  Maine;  assigned  "to  his  Captains,  Graham,  Brackett, 
Hunnewell  and  Larkin  their  rank  and  duty."  This  was  in  August, 
1696.  From  Portsmouth  he  was  to  start  on  an  expedition  to  the  Pen- 
obscot river  and  against  the  French  settlements  on  the  St.  Johns  river. 
The  little  army  left  Portsmouth  on  August  22,  1696,  and  in  its  course 
to  the  Kennebec,  stopped  at  points  on  the  coast  without  seeing  or 
hearing  of  any  Indians,  — so  thoroughly  had  the  eastward  forces  per- 
formed their  duty.  The  voyage  was  continued  to  the  Penobscot  bay 
where  the  islands  were  searched  and  the  coasts  thoroughly  scouted. 
but  no  Indians  were  found.  The  whale  boats  were  left  near  the 
mouth  of  the  river  and  the  land  forces  set  out  on  an  expedition  in 
pursuit  of  the  enemy.  It  was  reported  that  about  sixty  miles  up  the 
river  was  a  fort.  Major  Church  mentions  that  he  advanced  to  above 
the  falls  in  the  river,  and  relates  the  following  incident: 

"A  mile  or  two  above  the  falls  they  discovered  a  birch  canoe 
coming  down  with  two  Indians  in  it.  The  Major  sent  word  imme- 
diately back  to  those  at  the  falls,  to  lie  very  close  and  let  them  pass 
down  the  falls,  and  to  take  them  alive  that  he  might  have  intelligence 
where  the  enemy  were  *  *  *.  But  a  foolish  soldier  seeing  them  pass 
by  him,  shot  at  them,  contrary  to  orders  given,  which  prevented  them 
from  going  into  the  ambuscade  that  was  laid  for  them.  Whereupon 
several  more  of  our  men  being  near,  shot  at  them.  So  that  one  of 
them  could  not  stand  when  he  got  ashore  but  crept  away  into  the 
brush.  The  other  stepped  out  of  the  canoe  with  his  paddle  in  his 
hand  and  ran  about  a  rod  and  threw  down  his  paddle  and  turned  back 
and  took  up  his  gun  and  so  escaped.  One  of  our  Indians  swam  over 
the  river,  fetched  the  canoe  wherein  was  a  considerable  quantity  of 
blood  on  the  seat  that  the  Indians  sat  on;  the  canoe  had  several  holes 
shot  in  her.  They  stopped  the  holes  and  then  Captain  Brackett  with 
an  Indian  soldier  went  over  the  river  and  tracked  them  by  the  blood 
about  half  a  mile  where  they  found  his  gun,  took  it  up  and  seeing  the 
blood  no  further  concluded  that  he  had  stopped  it  and  so  got  away." 


ANTHONY,     THE     SOLDIER  79 

As  their  discovery  prevented  a  surprise  of  the  fort  further  up  the 
river,  at  that  time,  Major  Church  returned  to  his  boats  and  vessels, 
and  sailed  for  the  St.  Johns  river.  There  his  army  made  great  havoc 
among  the  French  settlements  and  took  considerable  plunder.  Not 
wishing  to  advance  further  east,  his  intentions  were  to  return  to  the 
Penobscot  river,  to  allow  his  white  soldiers  from  Massachusetts  to 
return  to  their  homes  with  the  ships  and,  with  the  "Eastward  men" 
and  the  friendly  Indians,  to  set  out  on  an  expedition  by  land  to  the 
Indian  fort  sixty  miles  up  the  river  on  an  island.  From  there  he 
intended  to  march  overland  to  the  Piscataqua,  attacking  Norridge- 
wock  and  other  indian  settlements  and  strongholds  in  his  course. 
Pursuant  to  this  plan  he  "discoursed  with  Captain  Brackett,  Captain 
Huuuewell  and  Captain  Earkin  (with  their  Lieutenants),  commanders 
of  the  forces  belonging  to  the  eastward  parts,  who  were  to  discourse 
their  soldiers  about  their  proceedings  when  they  came  to  Penobscot." 
He  further  mentions  how  he  intended  to  proceed, — "to  take  that  fort 
in  the  Penobscot  river;"  that  Captain  Brackett  informed  the  "major 
that  when  the  water  was  low,  they  could  wade  over,  which  was  at 
that  time  the  lowest  that  had  been  known  in  a  long  time."  He  had 
commenced  his  return  voyage  when  he  was  superseded  in  command 
by  Colonel  Hathorn.  The  expedition  again  went  to  St.  Johns  river 
and  after  a  futile  attempt  to  take  a  fort  from  the  French,  set  sail  for 
Boston.  By  the  month  of  November,  1696,  the  "Eastward  forces"  had 
returned  to  their  several  stations  —  Captain  Brackett  to  the  fort  at 
Wells. 

These  men  from  the  eastward  were  not  adventurers  after  plunder 
and  scalp  money;  their  purpose-  was  to  destroy,  the  enemy;  hence, 
they  stood  ready  to  follow  Church  where  he  should  lead  them  ;  and 
not  the  least  forward  so  to  do  was  Captain  Brackett,  his  "good  pilot," 
and  "Captain  for  his  country." 

In  1697,  there  was  an  alarm  of  another  invasion  of  the  few  settle- 
ments in  Maine  which  remained  to  the  English  ;  a  force  for  their 
protection  was  sent  from  Massachusetts  ;  before  it  arrived  there  were 
desultory  attacks  at  different  points  by  scouting  parties  of  Indians. 
At  Wells  one  of  a  party  at  work  in  a  marsh  was  slain  by  the  Indians ; 
they  captured  another  of  the  party  whom  they  burned  at  the  stake. 
"Captain  Brackett  pursued  them  but  did  but  almost  over  take  them." 

One  of  the  comrades  in  arms  of  Captain  Brackett  was  Major 
Charles  Frost  who  commanded  in  Kittery ;  he  was  waylaid  and  killed 
by  the  Indians  on  Sunday,  July  4,  1697.  One,  Joseph  Storer,  residing 
at  Wells,  under  date  of  July  16,  1697,  wrote  to  Captain  Joseph  Hill 
at  Saco,  Maine,  giving  an  account  of  the  death  of  Major  Frost,  and 
added,  "Capt.  Brackett  went  with  some  of  his  Company  a  Monday 
by  the  way  Newichawanock  (Berwick)  and  I  went  with  him,"  to  at- 
tend Major  Frost's  funeral.  This  was  the  Major  Frost  who  captured 
Megunnaway. 

Peace  with  the  Indians  was  made  in  1698;  the  war  had  lasted 
ten  years.  The  four  companies  "to  the  Eastward"  had  so  well 
patrolled  the  country,  that  as  early  as  1693,  the  settlers  were  enabled 
to  return  to  their  homes ;  from  that  year,  during  the  remainder  of  the 
war,  though  frequently  there  were  attacks  and  outrages  by  scouting 
and  roving  bands  of  Indians,  and  people  were  compelled  to  huddle  in 
garrison  and  block  houses,  there  happened  no  massacres  and  no  forti- 


80  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

fied  places  were  taken.  Prior  to  the  year  1693,  the  towns  were 
nearly  deserted.  Captain  Brackett  rose  from  the  ranks  to  the  posi- 
tion of  commander  of  the  most  easterly  post  maintained  by  the  Eng- 
lish, in  Maine,  during  the  latter  part  of  the  war.  He  had  seen  ten 
years  of  continuous  service  before  he  attained  the  thirtieth  year  of 
his  age.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  we  know  so  little  of  the  history  of 
this  brave  and  courageous  man.  However,  when  it  is  considered 
that  barely  the  mention  of  the  name  of  a  person  who  sacrificed  years 
of  his  life  in  active  service,  is  all  that  records  contain  concerning  him, 
is  his  military  history  for  his  descendants;  that  no  more  than  a  bare 
mention  is  made  concerning  hundreds  who  fought  during  this  and 
other  Indian  wars,  we  are  very  fortunate  indeed  to  have  preserved 
these  few  meager  scraps  concerning  this  gallant  soldier.  In  whatever 
rank  he  served,  whether  private,  lieutenant  or  captain,  he  gained 
distinction;  in  fact,  he  was  renowned  before  he  had  been  in  the  serv- 
ice a  year.  His  was  not  a  service  for  a  few  months  in  this  or  that 
expedition  ;  it  was  for  the  war,  ten  years  of  hard  fighting,  and  dur- 
ing the  entire  period  he  scarcely  set  foot  in  the  town  where  was  his 
home  —  deserted  Falmouth. 

When  peace  was  restored  Captain  Brackett  went  to  Hampton, 
New  Hampshire.  During  the  following  year  he  was  married ;  his 
wife's  Christian  name  was  Mary,  her  surname  is  not  known.  He 
resided  in  Hampton  but  a  few  years  ;  about  the  commencement  of 
Queen  Anne's  war  he  removed  to  Boston;  while  there,  for  a  time  at 
least,  he  followed  the  sea,  was  a  vessel  owner.  He  could  not  refrain 
from  lending  a  helping  hand  in  behalf  of  the  struggling  settlers  of 
Maine  and  New  Hampshire,  hence  we  read :  — 

"Whereas  Anthony  Brackett,  master  of  a  sloop  has  informed  his 
honor  that  he  has  on  board  stores  of  war  for  this  province ;  ordered 
that  Capt.  Walton  of  the  fort  William  and  Mary,  receive  said  stores 
and  that  Mr.  Treasurer  pay  the  said  Anthony  Brackett  his  freight 
out  of  the  Treasury,  21  Nov.,  1710."  (Vol.  Ill,  p.  621,  New  Hamp- 
shire Prov.  P.) 

Perhaps  it  was  failing  health  which  prevented  the  veteran  from 
actively  participating  in  the  long  and  fiercely  contested  struggle, 
which  closed  shortly  before  his  death.  From  the  Old  Sexton's  Bills 
(Boston  Records),  is  gleaned  that  "Anthony  Brackett  died  June  82, 
1716,  aged  47  years."  Peace  and  rest  which  war's  alarms  will  not 
disturb,  at  last  are  his  for  evermore.  It  is  well  that  his  descendants 
should  know  the  story  of  his  life.     Issue  : 

1.  Mary;  d.  30  Jan.,  1702.      (Old  Sexton's  Bills.) 

2.  Mary,  b.  8  May,  1704;  no  further  record. 

3.  Anthony,  b.  25  Jan.,  1708.     See  chapter  X. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


ZACHARIAH  BRACKETT  OF  BACK  COVE. 

Zachariah  Brackett,  son  of  Captain  Anthony  Brackett  (see  chap. 
Ill),  by  his  second  wife,  Susannah  Drake,  was  born  January  20,  1682. 
This  date  is  the  earliest,  showing  day,  month  and  year  of  the  birth  of 
any  of  the  descendants  of  Anthony,  the  immigrant,  so  complete  was 
the  destruction  of  town  and  parish  records  wrought  by  the  Indians. 
Zachariah  was  the  great-grandson  of  George  Cleeve  ;  the  first  settlers 
of  the  province  and  many  of  their  children  had  passed  away,  and  a 
half  century  had  rolled  by  from  the  time  when  Cleeve  settled  at 
Casco,  before  there  was  made  the  record  of  a  birth  or  a  marriage 
which  remains  to  us.  Xor  was  this  date  of  the  birth  of  Zachariah 
obtained  from  the  records  of  a  town  in  Maine  ;  it  is  the  town  records 
of  Hampton,  X.  H.,  that  contain  mention  of  it,  where  are  also 
recorded  the  dates  of  the  births  of  his  sisters.  Until  he  reached  the 
sixth  year  of  his  age.  his  father's  family  dwelt  at  intervals  of  the  time 
at  Hampton,  though  his  father  was  quite  steadily  at  Falmouth.  The 
family,  at  the  time  of  the  commencement  of  the  war  of  1688,  or  soon 
after,  was  in  Hampton.  From  that  year  there  was  continuous  war- 
fare- with  the  Indians,  with  the  exception  of  two  years  (1699-1700), 
until  the  peace  of  1 713.  During  these  years  repeated  attacks  were 
made  by  the  Indians  on  Hampton.  What  is  known  as  the  third 
Indian  war  (Queen  Anne's  war)  began  in  1701,  and  continued  until 
1713.  Zachariah  served  as  a  soldier  during  the  entire  war;  that  is,  he 
belonged  to  a  military  company  and  ever  stood  ready  to  do  the  bid- 
ding of  his  officers.  He  was  frequently  called  upon  for  sendee  as  the 
Indians  were  persistent  and  aggressive  in  their  attacks. 

As  a  result  of  the  war  the  population  of  Maine  had  materially 
decreased  ;  one  hundred  miles  of  its  seacoast  was  without  an  inhabi- 
tant and  nearly  all  of  its  towns  had  been  desolated.  There  was  no 
place  of  safety  but  within  a  fort  or  a  garrison  house,  and  there  was  no 
fort  east  of  Falmouth  nor  between  it  and  Wells.  In  Falmouth,  not 
on  the  Xeck,  but  eastward  across  the  bay,  had  been  erected  a  small 
fort,  which,  though  often  attacked,  was  held  by  the  colonists  to  the 
close  of  hostilities.  At  one  time  it  was  resolved  by  the  authorities  at 
Boston  to  demolish  the  fort  and  abandon  Falmouth,  but  the  resolution 
was  not  carried  into  effect.  This  advanced  post  was  maintained  until 
peace  was  declared.  In  the  year  171 5.  it  was  demolished.  About  the 
fort  gathered  a  few  of  the  homeless  people  ;  on  or  shortly  before  the 
destruction  of  the  fort,  they  passed  over  to  the  Xeck,  and  in  the  midst 
of  the  ruins  of  the  homes  of  the  former  settlers,  erected  log  huts  in 
which  to  dwell.  There  were  few  if  any  among  them  who  had  title  to 
land  there  or  thereabouts.  They  were  of  the  class  whose  stay  at  any 
place  was  precarious  and  had  been  attracted  to  Falmouth  because  it 
was  a  military  post  at  a  point  on  the  coast,  which  afforded  opportuni- 


82  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ties  for  living  by  fishing  and  occupying  the  deserted  farms.  In  1713, 
the  authorities  appointed  a  committee  to  examine  into  and  pass  upon 
the  title  of  claimants  to  lands  in  Maine.  It  will  be  remembered  that 
for  over  a  quarter  of  a  century  the  early  settlers  to  the  eastward  of 
Wells,  with  the  exception  of  one  or  two  small  temporary  settlements, 
had  been  driven  from  their  homes  and  prevented  from  returning  to 
them  by  the  fear  of  captivity  or  death  at  the  hands  of  the  Indians. 
In  fact,  so  hazardous  and  calamitous  were  the  prospects  of  returning 
to  their  homes,  that  the  authorities  would  not  allow  an  attempt  to  be 
made  without  their  permission.  By  17 13,  a  goodly  proportion  of  the 
heads  of  families,  settlers  of  the  province,  had  passed  away,  and  claim- 
ants to  lauds,  in  many  instances,  were  heirs  of  persons  once  entitled 
thereto,  long  since  deceased.  Of  such  was  Zachariah  Brackett.  The 
authorities  of  the  proprietary  colony  of  Massachusetts  included  Fal- 
mouth among,  in  fact  it  was  one  of  the  first  of,  the  towns  which  permis- 
sion was  given  to  settlers  to  return  and  claim  their  deserted  farms  or 
those  of  their  fathers.  In  17 15,  he  went  to  Falmouth  and  took  posses- 
sion of  his  father's  farm  on  Back  cove.  He  and  a  Benjamin  Skillings 
are  mentioned  as  the  first  having  title  to  land  in  Falmouth,  to  settle 
on  the  deserted  farms.  At  the  time  there  were  but  few  living  on  the 
Neck  and  among  them  a  Mr.  Ingersol,  called  by  the  people  "The 
Governor,"  from  the  fact  that  the  house  he  built  there  was  a  frame 
one,  the  others  being  made  of  logs.  Soon  after  there  was  an  influx 
of  claimants  and  others.  Of  those  who  had  no  lands,  some  at  least  did 
not  refrain  from  occupying  the  lands  of  absent  claimants,  and  there 
was  an  assumption  on  the  part  of  the  newly  organized  town  govern- 
ment to  grant  lands  to  the  new  settlers,  which  belonged  to  or  were 
claimed  by  the  heirs  of  the  old  settlers.  The  contests  consequent 
thereon  relative  to  the  ownership  of  tracts,  based,  as  were  the  titles 
of  the  new  settlers  in  them,  upon  grants  by  the  new  town  govern- 
ment, in  conjunction  with  the  contests  the  old  settlers  passed  through 
respecting  their  acquirement  of  title  to  lands  under  former  govern- 
ments, which  the  new  settlers  insisted  should  be  reopened  and  tried 
anew,  presented  for  consideration  questions  whose  intricacies  might 
well  bewilder  the  proverbial  Philadelphia  lawyer.  The  general  court 
was  petitioned  for  relief  by  heirs  of  the  old  settlers,  and  the  names  of 
the  daughters  of  Captain  Anthony  Brackett  are  affixed  to  such  peti- 
tions ;  that  body  relegated  their  petitions  to  its  circumlocution 
bureau.  No  relief  was  ever  granted  by  the  court.  The  contest  con- 
tinued until  1732,  when  the  old  and  new  proprietors  of  the  town  came 
to  an  agreement,  by  the  terms  of  which  the  new  settlers  vacated  the 
lands  claimed  by  the  old  settlers  and  their  heirs.  This  agreement 
was  entered  into  during  the  centennial  anniversary  of  the  settlement 
of  Casco  by  Cleeve  ;  the  hundred  years  had  been  of  strife  and  turmoil 
on  the  part  of  the  inhabitants  among  themselves  and  of  dreadful  and 
calamitous  wars  with  the  Indians. 

Zachariah,  who  was  one  of  the  very  first  to  return  to  Falmouth 
and  occupy  the  land  he  claimed,  was  not  involved  in  the  long  contest 
between  the  old  and  the  new  settlers.  However,  he  had  a  little  fam- 
ily affair  about  land,  which  gave  promise  of  vexatious  suits  at  law. 
Zachariah  claimed  title  to  the  farm  on  Back  cove  as  heir  of  his 
mother  to  her  rights  under  the  deed  of  jointure  made  by  Captain 
Anthony  at  the  time  of  his  second  marriage.     His  opponents  were 


ZACHARIAH     BRACKETT  83 

his  half-brother  and  half-sisters  who  contended  that  the  farm  was  the 
property  of  their  mother  and  that  their  father  had  no  title  which  he 
could  convey  to  his  second  wife.  There  was  an  amicable  settlement. 
Zachariah  purchased  the  interest  in  the  farm  of  the  heirs,  and  for  the 
purpose  borrowed  money  of  Joseph  Maylem,  bricklayer,  of  Boston, 
his  brother-in-law. 

The  family  of  Zachariah  did  not  remove  to  Falmouth  until  the 
year  1719.  On  August  2nd  of  that  year,  the  six  elder  of  his  children 
were  baptized  in  Hampton.  The  fact  that  the  family  did  not  go  to 
Falmouth  until  the  year  17 19,  is  shown  by  the  affidavit  of  Abraham 
Brackett,  one  of  its  members,  born  in  1714,  who  thereby  testified  that 
he  was  four  (five)  years  of  age  when  he  went  to  Falmouth  to  live. 

In  1722,  commenced  the  Three  Years,  or  Lovewell's,  war.  The 
Indians  had  patiently  waited  for  the  colonists  to  carry  out  the  treaty 
of  1 7 13  in  the  particular  of  erecting  and  maintaining  trading  posts 
for  the  accommodation  of  the  former,  and  for  their  protection  against 
the  extortions  of  the  private  traders.  Traffic  with  the  Indians  was 
then  very  profitable.  In  our  day  one  is  well  able  to  imagine  from  what 
source  opposition  would  arise  to  the  erection  of  public  trading  posts, 
where  the  Indians  could  purchase  goods  at  a  normal  cost  and  receive 
a  fair  price  for  their  commodities,  and  delay  their  erection  as  long  as 
possible.  Rather  than  carry  out  the  treaty,  the  authorities  at  Boston 
chose  the  hazards  of  war,  or,  more  correctly  speaking,  ventured  to 
make  an  attempt  to  capture  the  one  man  above  all  others,  who  gave 
them  the  alternative  of  performing  their  treaties  of  their  own  accord, 
or  submitting  to  the  humiliation  of  being  compelled  to  do  so.  The 
man  was  Father  Ralle,  the  faithful  friend  of  the  Indians,  who  dwelt 
in  the  village  of  the  Norridgewock  tribe.  The  attempt  made  to  kid- 
nap him  in  time  of  peace  was  thwarted  by  the  alert  Indians.  This 
act  of  treachery  determined  the  sagamores  ;  they  resolved  upon  war. 
Hostilities  upon  their  part  at  once  commenced  and  continued  until 
the  authorities  at  Boston  were  very  anxious,  not  only  to  erect  trading 
posts,  but  also  to  concede  quite  everything  the  Indians  demanded. 
Again  the  settlers  were  huddled  in  or  near  forts  and  garrison  houses; 
there  were  hostilities  from  Nova  Scotia  to  the  western  frontiers  of 
Massachusetts.  On  the  Neck  in  Falmouth,  in  July,  1722,  a  man  was 
shot;  in  April,  1723,  a  soldier  was  killed  in  an  attack  on  one  of  the 
garrison  houses.  Though  in  former  wars  the  greatest  loss  of  life,  and 
suffering  from  captivity  and  destruction  of  property,  of  any  settle- 
ment in  Maine  or  New  Hampshire  were  the  lot  of  the  people  of  Fal- 
mouth, in  this  war  the  town  was  the  field  of  little  more  than  forays 
by  the  Indians  in  which  occasionally  there  was  loss  of  life,  rarely  on 
the  part  of  the  enemy.  So  securely  did  the  inhabitants  feel,  because 
of  the  protection  offered  them  by  the  natural  advantages  on  the 
Neck,  from  attacks  by  the  Indians,  that  their  military  discipline  was 
of  the  exceedingly  indifferent  kind.  "We  walked  through  the  town 
of  Falmouth  twice  in  one  night"  reads  the  report  of  a  committee 
appointed  by  the  general  court  to  investigate  conditions  of  defense  at 
different  points  in  Maine,  "without  being  hailed,  though  there  were 
several  military  companies  in  the  place."  In  one  of  said  companies, 
that  commanded  by  Captain  Joshua  Moody,  Zachariah  served  as  a 
private  ;  the  company  was  organized  in  1722  ;  his  name  is  found  in  a 
muster  roll  of  the  company  made  in  1725. 


8 I  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Lieutenant  Governor  Dummer's  peace,  concluded  in  1725,  was 
hailed  with  rejoicing  by  the  settlers  of  Maine.  It  was  ratified  July 
30,  at  Falmouth,  where  the  victorious  sagamores  had  kept  in  wait- 
ing for  two  weeks,  many  state  dignitaries  and  a  "fine  train  of  young 
gentlemen"  as  a  guard.  So  thoroughly  harassed  had  been  the 
Whites  that  for  the  first  time  were  their  authorities  inclined  to  be  in 
earnest  in  their  promises  to  the  Indians.  Immediate  steps  were 
taken  to  carry  into  effect  the  terms  of  the  treaty,  and  thereupon  fol- 
lowed as  many  years  of  continuous  peace  as  the  colonists  were  des- 
tined to  enjoy  during  the  time  from  King  Philip's  war  to  the  fall  of 
Quebec,  a  period  of  eighty-five  years. 

Again,  people  could  dwell  in  safety  and  unmolested  outside  of 
forts,  garrison  and  block  houses.  Zachariah  with  his  family  could 
leave  the  Neck  and  return  to  the  old  farm  at  Back  cove.  It  is  prob- 
able that  he  never  took  part  in  any  conflict  with  the  Indians  sub- 
sequent to  the  treaty  of  1725.  Prior  to  or  during  King  George's 
war,  which  commenced  in  1744,  he  had  moved  to  Ipswich,  Mass. 
He  sold  the  farm  at  Back  cove  shortly  before.  In  Ipswich  he  passed 
the  remainder  of  his  days.  He  died  in  1751  ;  estate  administered  in 
October  1755  ;  consisted  in  part  of  house  and  lands  in  Ipswich. 

The  question  as  to  who  was  the  first  wife  of  Zachariah  is  prob- 
lematical. Her  Christian  name  was  Hannah.  Among  the  unpub- 
lished writings  of  Mr.  Willis,  is  a  memorandum,  reading,  in  sub- 
stance, that  Zachariah  Brackett  was  a  son  of  Captain  Anthony  by  his 
second  wife;  that  "Dr.  Brackett  informed  me  his  first  wife  was  a 
Drake  ;  by  her  he  had  his  children ;  his  second  wife  was  an  Irish 
woman." 

The  Dr.  Brackett  referred  to,  was  Dr.  James  Brackett  of  Dee, 
N.  H.  A  careful  research  has  disclosed  that  there  was  no  Hannah 
Drake  whom  Zachariah  could  have  married.  The  relater  probably 
was  confused  as  to  the  spouse  of  the  Drake  who  married  a  Brackett, 
or  confused  the  wives  of  Anthony  and  Zachariah,  and  thus  misin- 
formed the  historian.  Little  did  the  doctor  think  that  less  than 
three-quarters  of  a  century  would  pass  before  there  would  be  pub- 
lished that  his  wife  was  an  Elizabeth  Nye,  sister  of  Adino  Nye. 
The  truth  probably  is  that  the  first  wife  of  Zachariah  Brackett  was 
his  cousin,  Hannah  Libby,  daughter  of  Anthony,  who  was  his  fifth 
child.  He  had  four  daughters,  viz.,  Sarah,  who  married  June  18, 
1701,  Israel  Smith;  Mary,  who  married  Mar.  7,  1709,  John  Lane; 
Hannah;  Jane,  b.  Aug.  5,  1700,  who  married  in  1720,  Deacon 
Abraham  Moulton.  In  his  will,  dated  Feb.  17,  1718,  Anthony  Libby 
bequeathed  to  his  daughters  whom  he  named  thus — 

"4th.     To  my  beloved  daughter  Sarah,  6£. 

5th.     To  my  beloved  daughter,  Mary,  6£. 

6th.     To  my  beloved  daughter,  Hannah,  20s. 

7th.  To  my  beloved  daughter,  Jane,"  cattle  on  her  marriage 
day. 

It  will  be  observed  that  daughters,  Sarah  and  Mary,  were 
married  when  the  will  was  made;  that  their  husbands'  names  are 
not  given  in  the  will,  hence  their  names  are  derived  from  other 
sources.  Further,  the  name  of  the  husband  of  Hannah  is  not  con- 
tained in  the  Libby  genealogy.  This  speculation  is  ventured,  that 
111  1  7  is.  when  Anthony  Libby  made  his  will,  Zachariah  Brackett  had 


ZACHARIAH     BRACKETT 

acquired  possession  of  his  father's  valuable  farm  at  Back  cove, 
hence,  the  small  bequest  to  his  daughter  Hannah,  the  wife  of 
Zachariah.  Anthony  Libby  was  born  in  1649,  in  Scarboro;  was  a 
carpenter;  removed  to  Falmouth  in  1682;  married  August  20,  1775, 
Sarah  Drake,  sister  of  Susannah,  and  daughter  of  Abraham  Drake 
and  wife  Jane,  of  Hampton;  removed  to  Hampton  in  1685,  where  he 
died  in  1718  ;  was  son  of  John;  he  was  born  in  England  about  1602, 
came  to  America  in  1631,  in  the  emplo}^  of  John  Winter  at  Richmond 
island;  settled  in  1640,  at  Black  point,  Scarboro;  died  in  1682;  name 
of  first  wife  is  unknown ;  name  of  second  wife  was  Mary. 

Zachariah  Brackett  married  (2nd),  intention  published  Feb.  16, 
1 741,  Mary  Ross;  she  was  probably  daughter  of  the  Ross  mentioned 
by  Abraham  Brackett  in  his  affidavit  as  the  Ross  "then  lately  (1740) 
come  from  Scotland."  Dr.  Brackett  related  that  because  of  the 
trouble  she  made  in  the  family,  Zachariah  sold  the  farm  and  removed 
to  Ipswich.  There  probably  was  opposition  on  the  part  of  the  chil- 
dren to  their  father's  second  marriage ;  the  wife  was  many  years  his 
junior.  Her  estate  was  administered  in  1793,  probably  shortly  after 
her  death.     Issue: 

1.  Sarah,  b.  1  Mar.,  1709;  mar.  (1st),  Isaac  Sawyer,  b.  about 
1707  or  8,  in  Gloucester,  Mass.,  was  son  of  Isaac;  he  was  b.  in  1684, 

in  Gloucester,  mar.  in  1706,  Martha ,  removed  to  Falmouth  in 

1725,  d.  in  1772,  was  son  of  James;  he  was  a  weaver  in  Gloucester, 
mar.  Sarah  Bray,  dau.  of  Thomas  of  Gloucester;  James  may  have 
been  son  of  William  who  came  to  New  England  about  1640.  An 
Isaac  Sawyer  was  one  of  the  organizing  members  of  First  Parish 
church  in  Falmouth,  in  1727.  Mar.  (2nd),  subsequently  to  1752, 
Jonathan  Morse;  he  united  with  the  First  church  in  Falmouth  in 
1737,  having  been  dismissed  from  the  church  in  Newbury,  Mass. 
Issue  by  Isaac  Sawyer: 

1st.     Zachariah,  bapt.  10  June,  1732. 

2nd.  Zachariah,  b.  27  Aug.,  1733;  mar.  in  1754,  Sarah  Knight; 
mar.  (2nd)  13  May,  1784,  Mrs.  Susannah  (Watson)  Shillings;  resided 
in  Falmouth  until  his  second  marriage  when  he  removed  to  Gorham. 
Children:  Hannah,  b.  in  1755  ;  Nathan,  who  mar.  Tabitha  Shillings  ; 
Jonathan;  Isaac;  Zachariah;  Brackett,  b.  19  Mar.,  1775,  mar.  Eliz- 
abeth Webb,  d.  21  Apr.,  1851  ;  Amos,  lost  at  sea;  Levi,  b.  13  May, 
1786. 

3d.  Anthony,  bapt.  in  1735;  d.  21  June,  1805;  mar.  Susanna 
Marston.  Children:  Ephraim ;  child;  Daniel;  Asa;  Joseph;  Rob- 
ert, and  six  others. 

4th.     Anne.     5th,  Hannah  Brackett,  b.  in  1739. 

6th.     A  child.     7th,  Thomas.     8th,  Benjamin.     9th,  Isaac. 

10th.     Sarah,    who  mar.    her  cousin,    Peter  Brackett    (see    fam. 

4.  div.  5)- 

11th.     Obediah. 

2.  Jane,  b.  13  Jan.,  1711;  mar.  Daniel  Mosher,  son  of  James 
and  grandson  of  Hugh  ;   resided  in  Gorham.     Issue: 

1st.     Hannah  Brackett  b.  in  1734;  mar.  Moses  Akers.     Issue: 

I.  Jenny  Mosher,  b.  13  Aug.,  1756;  int.  of  mar.  20  Mar.,  1784, 
with  Thomas  Brackett;  mar.  17  Mar.,  1785,  James  Brackett  of  Fal- 
mouth (see  fam.  4,  div.  7). 

II.  Daniel  Mosher. 


84 


BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


III.  John. 

IV.  Hannah  Baker. 

V.  Rebecca. 

VI.  Susannah  Bake",  b.  17  Oct.,  1775. 
2nd.     Catherine,  who  mar.  Joseph  Watson. 

3d.     James,  bapt.  in    1737;    mar.    in    1758,  Abigail  Frost  who    d. 
2  Oct.,  1834,  aged  99  years.      v 

3.  Anthony,  b.  25  Aug.,  171 2.     See  division  4. 

4.  Abraham,  b.  3  July,  1714.     See  division  3. 

5.  Zachariah,  Jr.,  b.  30  Nov.,  1716.     See  division  6. 
(>.     Thomas,  b.  in  1718.     See  division  5. 

7.  Susannah,    b.    13    Feb.,   1720;    mar.  John    Baker   who  came 
from  Boston.     Children  were  Josiah,  bapt.  in  1741  ;  John;  and  Susan. 

8.  Joshua,  b.  7  Jan.,  1723.     See  division  7. 

9.  Abigail,  b.  21  Aug.,  1727;  mar.  James  Merrill  of  Falmouth. 
Children  by  wife,  Mary  Ross: 

10.  Mary,  bapt.  in  1742. 

11.  Ann,  bapt.  in  1745. 


CHAPTEk    VII. 


LIEUTENANT    JOSHUA    BRACKETT 
OF     PORTSMOUTH. 

Joshua  Brackett,  the  son  of  Thomas  Brackett  (see  chapter  IV), 
and  grandson  of  Anthony  Brackett,  the  immigrant,  was  born  in  Fal- 
mouth. The  year  of  his  birth  is  not  known;  he,  himself,  probably 
did  not  know  with  certainty  his  age,  for  all  town  and  parish  records 
were  destroyed  and  both  of  his  parents  died  during  his  childhood, 
his  father  having  been  killed  by  the  Indians  and  his  mother  having 
succumbed  to  the  hardships  of  captivity  while  in  the  hands  of  the 
same  foe.  With  his  mother,  his  brother  and  sisters,  Joshua  was 
taken  captive  on  that  fateful  day,  August  n,  1676.  With  the 
Indians  he  remained  until  he  was  redeemed  by  his  grandfather 
Anthony  Brackett,  in  whose  family  he  resided  for  several  years.  We 
have  nothing  certain  as  to  his  captivity,  either  as  to  its  length  or 
where  he  was  confined.  Probably  not  until  the  close  of  the  war  did 
he  reach  his  grandfather's  house  at  Sandy  beach.  His  mother  had 
passed  away  ;  all  the  personal  effects  of  his  father  had  been  destroyed  ; 
the  farm  and  large  tracts  on  the  Neck  alone  remained  to  him,  and 
when  he  arrived  at  an  age  to  be  able  to  cultivate  and  improve  them, 
war  commenced  with  the  Indians,  which,  but  for  a  short  interval  of 
peace,  lasted  for  twenty-five  years.  From  this  condition  of  privation 
and  destitution  he  arose  to  become  one  of  the  richest  men  in  the  prov- 
ince, in  his  day. 

By  his  grandfather  he  was  reared.  He  became  sufficiently 
skilled  in  the  English  language  to  write  with  ease  and  to  express 
himself  in  good  diction.  We  have  no  better,  and  want  no  better, 
evidence  of  the  excellent  qualities  and  aspirations  of  Anthony 
Brackett,  the  immigrant,  than  is  afforded  by  the  degree  of  culture 
attained  by  his  children  and  grandchildren  who  were  his  charges, 
principally  through  the  advantages  he  bestowed  upon  them.  During 
the  nine  years  which  followed  the  peace  of  1679,  the  boy  was  in  good 
hands,  was  being  well  instructed  and  carefully  trained  by  his  aged 
Episcopalian  grandparents,  and  petted  and  comforted  by  aunts, 
uncles  and  cousins.  Then  commenced  the  war  of  1688,  and  Falmouth 
was  in  danger.  The  emergency  of  the  times  called  him  to  Falmouth 
where  was  the  gallant  Anthony  Brackett,  his  uncle.  Imagine  him 
shirking  duty,  if  you  can,  permitting  others  to  defend  the  town  where 
he  was  born,  where  was  the  home  of  his  father,  all  that  he  owned, 
and  he  remaining  at  Sandy  beach.  He  went  to  Falmouth  and 
became  a  partisan  follower  of  his  uncle  on  those  questions  over  which 
the  conflict  waxed  strong  and  split  in  twain  the  settlers  of  the  de- 
voted .own.     At  the  time,  the  contest  between  the  parties  was  over 


88  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

the  appointment  of  their  military  officers.  A  petition  dated  May  2, 
1689,  to  which  Joshua  was  a  signer,  was  presented  to  the  insurrec- 
tionary authorities  at  Boston,  opposing  the  continuation  in  command 
of  their  local  military  force,  of  Colonel  Tyng  and  Captain  Sylvanus 
Davis.  The  opposition  to  these  officers  was  not  so  much  on  the 
account  that  they  had  been  appointed  by  Sir  Edmund  Andross,  as  on 
the  account  that  they  had  profited,  as  beneficiaries  of  his  harsh  civil 
government  in  Falmouth,  at  the  expense  of  its  people.  The  conflict 
of  the  parties  had  taken  successively  the  form  of  contests  over 
different  questions,  and  at  this  critical  juncture  the  contest  in  the 
matter  of  appointing  officers  was  deplorably  virulent  and  untimely. 
Joshua  was  probably  past  the  age  of  twenty-one  when  he  signed  the 
petition.  It  is  not  thought  that  boys  who  had  not  attained  their 
majority  would  have  been  permitted,  in  those  days,  to  petition  the 
officials  of  the  Bay  colony  on  so  grave  a  subject.  How  long  he 
remained  in  Falmouth  is  not  known,  probably  until  after  the  danger 
had  passed;  was  with  his  uncle  when  he  fell  and  thereupon  hastened, 
on  that  frosty  morning  in  September,  to  the  Neck,  to  give  the  alarm 
on  the  approach  of  the  Indians ;  took  part  in  the  battle  ;  attended 
the  funeral  of  his  uncle,  and  then  returned  to  Sandy  beach.  With 
the  arrival  of  spring  came  the  news  of  the  fall  of  fort  Loyal  at  Fal- 
mouth, and  of  the  death  and  captivity  of  relatives.  Let  us  not  again 
draw  the  pall  of  that  terrible  last  Tuesday  of  September,  1691  ;  for, 
to  write  of  it  once,  even  at  this  date,  is  sickening.  Young  Joshua 
was  there;  "The  sons  of  auld  goodman  Brackett  were  in  the  salt 
marsh  and  with  no  suspicion  of  danger,"  reads  the  old  chronicle. 
The  sparse  and  meager  accounts  we  have  of  those  stirring  times, 
hardly  afford  us  a  glimpse  of  young  Joshua.  But  this  we  have,  show- 
ing that  he  was  doing  his  part,  stationed  at  the  most  exposed  point, 
at  the  height  of  the  conflict: 

"April  1,  1697,  Thes  fnay  inform  Howe  it  may  conceren  that 
these  fouer  men  hear  named,  William  pumeri,  John  Hill,  Richard 
place  and  Joshua  bracket  sarved  thair  majisty  Shoulders  in  garrison 
at  Oister  Riewr  (Durham)  in  the  provens  of  new  Hampshire  in  the 
yer  1696.  Richard  pomri,  five  weekes,  the  other  thre  fouer  weekes  a 
pece ;  thay  Hev  Had  former  debenters  for  the  sam  time  but  Dost. 
John  Woodman,  Captain." 

About  the  year  1698,  he  was  married  ;  his  oldest  child  was  born 
in  1700.  He  continued  to  live  in  Greenland  until  his  death  in  1749, 
was  a  resident  of  the  town  for  nearly  seventj^  years.  At  times  during 
the  war  commencing  in  1701  and  ending  in  1715,  he  did  some  sol- 
diering ;  was  chosen  lieutenant  of  a  local  military  company,  and 
hence,  we  find  him  spoken  of  as  Lieutenant  Joshua  Brackett.  Dur- 
ing twenty-eight  years  of  the  first  forty-five  years  of  his  life,  there 
was  continuous  war  with  the  Indians.  The  horrifying  accounts  of 
the  bloody  conflicts  in  night  and  day,  during  all  seasons  of  the  year; 
of  murder,  rapine,  torture  and  bloody  reprisals;  of  the  most  shameful 
treachery  on  the  part  of  the  English  as  well  as  on  the  part  of  their 
determined  foe, —  the  reading  them  two  hundred  years  after  the 
scenes  they  depict,  took  place,  gives  one  the  nightmare.  There  was 
not  a  man  in  the  province  on  whom  blows  fell  faster  and  harder,  and 
produced  deeper  heart  pangs,  who  had  cause  to  cry  louder  for 
revenge,    than   Joshua  Brackett.     Of   those  slain   whom  he   had  to 


JOSHUA,     OF     GREENLAND  89 

mourn  were  his  father,  grandfather,  grandmother,  uncle  Captain 
Anthony  Brackett,  uncle  Nathaniel  Mitton,  uncle  Lieutenant  Thad- 
deus  Clark  and  cousin  Seth  Brackett ;  of  his  relatives  who  were  made 
captives  were  his  mother,  who  died  while  a  prisoner,  his  brother,  two 
sisters,  the  children  of  his  uncle  John  Brackett,  one  of  whom  never 
returned  to  the  province  to  live,  and  the  children  of  his  uncle 
Anthony  Brackett.  Who  of  his  relatives  were  maimed  and  wounded, 
have  not  been  learned. 

There  is  evidence  that  he  was  engaged  in  the  coast  trade, 
whether  as  merchant  or  transporter  it  is  not  known  ;  certain  it  is  that 
he  was  the  owner  of  vessels;  was  also  a  manufacturer  of  lumber, 
owned  a  saw  mill  or  two,  owned  one  at  Wadleigh's  Falls  in  Strafford 
county.  So  with  some  reason  it  can  be  presumed  that  the  product 
of  his  mills,  he  shipped  to  Boston.  Whatever  was  his  line  of  business, 
he  prospered,  accumulated  wealth.  Early  in  his  business  life  he 
purchased  land,  farms  from  their  respective  owners  adjoining  one 
another  and  bordering  for  miles  along  the  southern  shore  of  the  Great 
bay. 

"These  lands   around   the   bay  were  far  the  best  in  town 
And  here  the  prudent  Bracketts  came  and  settled  down." 

Commencing  with  a  tract  over  the  line  in  Stratham,  now  owned 
by  the  heirs  of  Mr.  Dudley  Littlefield,  the  farm  extended  into  the 
present  town  of  Greenland,  the  southern  shore  of  the  bay  being  its 
northern  limit :  it  is  probably  one  of  the  most  beautifully  situated 
tracts  of  land  in  the  state. 

"The  lands  along  the  bay 
Were  in  the  Dover  grant  and  things  were  mixed  that  way. 
'Twas  called  "Cottrell's  Delight.'     This  place  round  Littlefield's 
Was  owned  by  men  in  Exeter.     From  them  it  yields 
Itself  some  way  to  Brackett." 

The  long  Indian  war  came  to  an  end  in  17 13.  Two  years  later 
the  settlers  commenced  to  return  to  deserted  Falmouth.  The  con- 
test over  land  between  the  old  and  the  new  settlers  arose.  The  heirs 
of  Michael  Mitton  were  petitioning  the  general  court  for  their  rights 
as  proprietors  of  Falmouth,  but  the  name  of  Joshua  Brackett  does 
not  appear  among  those  of  the  petitioners.  We  have  no  evidence  that 
he  took  steps  to  secure  his  property  in  Falmouth  until  the  year  1726, 
when  he  applied  for  administration  on  his  father's  estate,  quite  fifty 
years  after  his  father's  death.  Two  years  later  his  sons,  Joshua  and 
Anthony,  took  possession  of  the  old  farm.  About  this  period  Lieu- 
tenant Joshua  became  interested  in  Peak's  island  and  other  landed 
property  of  the  Mitton  estate.  In  Boston  lived  his  second  cousin, 
Anthony  Brackett,  son  of  Captain  Anthony,  "the  good  pilot  and 
captain  for  his  country,"  son  of  the  gallant  Captain  Anthony  of  Fal- 
mouth, the  husband  of  Ann  Mitton,  daughter  of  Michael  Mitton. 
This  Anthony,  the  fourth,  had  purchased  the  interests  of  some  heirs  of 
Michael  Mitton,  children  of  all  the  daughters  of  Mitton  except  one, 
Mary,  the  mother  of  Joshua,  and  Joshua  himself  purchased  the 
interests  of  his  brother  and  sisters.  The  two,  Joshua  and  Anthony, 
by  these  purchases  became  the  owners  of  Peak's  island  and  other 
large  tracts  of  land  in  Falmouth. 

Quite  a  lively  contest  will  have  the  Rev.  Thomas  Smith  et  al, 
who  have  been  purchasing  wild-cat  claims  to  these  same  lands,  as  no 


90  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

time  does  this  Anthony  of  Boston  propose  to  lose  in  bringing  suit  to 
test  the  title  to  lands  in  question  which  the  reverend  gentleman  sets 
up.  Anthony  and  Lieutenant  Joshua  are  in  communication  by  letter, 
and  when  the  wind  is  favorable,  this  Anthony  takes  a  sail  to  Ports- 
mouth to  talk  over  the  business  in  hand  with  the  prosperous  mer- 
chant, landowner,  manufacturer  and  veteran  soldier,  Lieutenant 
Joshua.  Well  the  two  know  with  whom  they  have  to  deal;  know 
that  the  Rev.  Thomas  Smith  of  Falmouth,  has  such  an  eye  to  busi- 
ness that  he  disdains  not  to  put  a  few  pounds  sterling  into  stock  of  a 
scalp-hunting  company,  whose  profit  is  the  government  bounty  of 
some  hundred  pounds  paid  for  the  scalps  of  every  Indian,  squaw 
and  papoose  taken  by  the  men  hired  and  equipped  by  his  company. 

Fortunately  a  few  letters  which  passed  between  the  cousins  are 
extant.  Mrs.  Grace  Brackett  Scott  of  New  Market,  a  descendant  of 
Joshua,  often  thought  that  in  the  house,  which  was  her  grandfather's, 
built  by  this  same  Joshua,  there  must  be  documents  of  value  in  a  his- 
torical way.  When  the  house  became  the  property  of  her  brother 
John,  in  recent  years,  sure  enough  there  were  found  in  an  old  secre- 
tary, letters  whose  contents  are  sources  of  authority  on  what  follows 
concerning  the  plans  of  the  two  cousins  to  recover  the  Falmouth 
property. 

Anthony  of  Boston,  was  many  years  the  junior  of  his  cousin 
Joshua ;  it  is  noticeable  that  he  addressed  him  with  a  deal  of  respect 
and  consideration,  introducing  each  paragraph  of  his  letters  to  him 
with  "Sir,"  and  deferring  to  his  judgment  in  all  important  matters. 
Anthony  was  much  the  more  of  the  two  on  the  speculative  order  and 
finds  occasion  to  remind  Joshua  that,  through  oversight,  steps  are  not 
being  taken  as  hastily  as  they  may  be,  in  the  matter  of  acquiring 
possession  of  the  Mitton  estate,  while  Joshua  seemingly  pays  more 
attention  to  his  shipping  interests  than  he  does  to  the  legal  matter  in 
hand, —  to  ancient  claims  to  real  estate  through  grandfather  Mitton. 
Thinks  he  did  not  get  enough  for  his  sloop  which  Anthony  sold  for 
him,  by  some  odd  pounds,  does  Joshua.  He  is  not  fully  aware  as  to 
how  keen,  active  and  well  informed  a  partner  he  has  in  this  Anthony 
until  he  is  taken  to  task,  in  a  very  deferential  way,  for  not  executing 
and  forwarding  certain  documents  which  Anthony  must  have  for 
their  lawyer's  use.  They  leave  no  stone  unturned  to  secure  posses- 
sion of  the  Mitton  property;  do  get  it  all  but  two-ninths  of  Peak's 
Island,  and  Joshua  purchases  Anthony's  interest.  The  Rev.  Thomas 
Smith  gets  nothing,  will  have  to  content  himself  with  tithes  and 
scalp  money  for  a  time. 

However,  long  before  he  secured  the  Mitton  estate  he  was  well 
off  in  a  worldly  way.  In  spiritual  matters  he  made  a  change  to 
accord  with  the  views  of  his  neighbors.  Both  of  his  grandfathers 
were  Episcopalians  ;  probably  his  mother  was  of  that  faith  and  his 
father  also.  The  Congregationalists  had  pretty  much  everything 
their  way  in  Portsmouth.  But  it  was  not  until  Joshua  was  well 
passed  the  middle  age  that  he  acknowledged  the  covenant,  and  soon 
after  he  united  with  the  church;  his  eight  children  were  baptized,  all 
on  the  same  day. 

It  is  interesting  to  see  how  faithfully  he  selected  family  names 
for  nearly  all  of  his  children.  His  first  son  he  named  John,  for  his 
uncle  John,  with  whom  he  had  soldiered  for  a  score  of  years;  the 


JOSHUA,     OF     GREENLAND  91 

second,  Joshua,  he  named  for  himself;  the  third,  Thomas,  for  his 
father;  the  fourth,  Samuel,  for  his  brother;  the  fifth,  Anthony,  for 
his  grandfather;  the  sixth,  James;  the  name  is  not  one  that  was 
borne  by  any  member  of  either  the  father's  or  the  mother's  family; 
the  seventh,  Nathaniel,  for  his  uncle  Nathaniel  Mitton.  Two 
daughters  he  named  Mary,  for  his  wife  and  his  mother;  one  of  the 
daughters  died  in  infancy ;  the  next,  Abigail,  he  named  for  his 
cousin,  daughter  of  his  uncle  John  ;  the  next,  Elinor,  for  his  aunt, 
his  father's  sister;  the  next,  Kezia,  for  another  daughter  of  his 
uncle  John  ;  the  youngest,  Margaret,  whose  name  is  not  a  family  one. 

To  all  the  sons  he  made  legacies  and  bequests  sufficient  to  place 
each  in  good  financial  condition.  The  youngest  child,  Nathaniel, 
was  given  the  home  farm  with  its  mansion  house,  lying  partly  in 
Stratham.  About  two  hundred  acres  adjoining  the  home  farm  on  the 
east  with  its  mansion  house,  were  devised  to  James.  As  many  acres 
lying  to  the  east  of  the  latter  farm  with  its  mansion,  were  devised  to 
John.  It  is  traditional  that  the  frames  of  the  three  houses  were 
raised  on  the  same  day,  and  that  when  the  houses  were  finished  they 
were  taken  possession  of  by  the  sons  in  the  lifetime  of  their  father. 
Sons  Joshua  and  Anthony  were  given  the  lands  in  Falmouth  ;  to 
Samuel  were  given  a  farm  in  New  Market  and  a  half  interest  in  the 
sawmill  at  Wadleigh's  Falls ;  to  son  James,  the  other  half  of  said 
mill.  Son  Thomas  died  in  the  lifetime  of  his  father,  leaving  an 
estate  which  inventoried  5,000  pounds. 

It  has  been  written  that  Joshua  acquired  these  farms  about  the 
bay  from  his  grandfather  Anthony.  The  statement  is  not  the  truth  ; 
there  is  no  foundation  for  it  whatever.  Anthony  never  owned  land 
about  the  bay,  did  not  mention  Joshua's  name  in  his  will. 

The  grave  of  Joshua  is  on  the  home  farm.     On  the  tombstone, 
marking  his  last  resting-place,  is'the  following  inscription : 
"Here  Lies  Mr.  Joshua 
Brackett  Who  Died 
June   19:   D:  y.    1749.  Aged  77 
yes" 

The  wife  .of  Joshua  Brackett  was  Mary  Weeks;  she  was  born 
19  July,  1676;  d.  in  1740  ;  was  daughter  of  Leonard  Weeks  ;  he  mar. 
Mary  Haines  ;  she  was  dau.  of  Samuel  Haines ;  he  was  b.  about 
1611,  in  England,  and  d.  in  1686;  his  wife  was  Elinor  Neate. 
Issue  : 

1.  John,  b.  about  1700.     See  division  13. 

2.  Joshua,  b.  about  1701,  in  Greenland;  mar.  Abigail ;  lived 

in  Falmouth  from  prior  to  1728,  to  his  death' in  March,  1794.  The 
account  of  his  life  is  given  in  connection  with  that  of  his  brother 
Anthony  (see  div.  15).     Issue: 

1st.  Abigail,  b.  14  Sept.,  1728;  mar.  (1st),  intention  published 
8  Oct.,  1749,  Job  Lunt;  (2nd)  Anthony  Brackett  (see  issue,  div. 
4);  d.  1  Feb.,  1805.     Issue  by  first  husband : 

I.  Michael  Eunt,  who  mar.  his  cousin,  Sarah  Skillings;  Parson 
Dean  refused  to  perform  the  ceremony;  Joshua  deeded  to  him  a  tract 
of  land  in  Portland.     Issue  : 

a.  Sarah,  b.  19  Dec,  1775. 

b.  Job,  b.  22  Feb.,  1778. 


92  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

c.  Mary,  b.  25  July,  1784. 

d.  Michael  Mitton,  )  .     . ,  0      . 

e.  Abigail,  '[twins,  b.  23  Sept.,  1792. 

/.     Isaac  Skillings.  b.  16  June,  1794. 

Names  of  other  children,  if  any,  of  Abigail  and  husband,  Job 
IvUnt,  not  known. 

2nd.  Mary,  bapt.  in  1732,  in  Falmouth;  mar.  18  Dec,  1752, 
Isaac  Skillings.     Issue : 

I.  Sarah,  who  mar.  Michael  L,unt. 

II.  Mary,  who  mar.  William  Malone. 

III.  Benjamin,  who  mar.  Mary  Pride. 

IV .  Eleanor,  who  mar.  William  Cleaves. 

3d.  Sarah  Weeks;  bapt.  in  1734,  in  Falmouth;  mar.  (intention 
published  13  March,  1756),  Daniel  Wood;  mar.  (2nd)  27  Oct.,  1776, 
Daniel  Green;  her  father  deeded  to  her  a  tract  of  land  in  Falmouth. 
Issue,  by  husband,  Daniel  Green: 

I.  Daniel  Wood,  b.  15  Nov.,  1778. 

II.  Nabby,  b.  19  Mar.,  1780. 

4th.  .  Nelly  ;  in  1789  her  father  deeded  her  land  adjoining  property 
of  Daniel  Green;  was  then  unmarried. 

5th.  Thankful,  bapt.  in  1737,  in  Falmouth;  mar.  (intention  pub- 
lished 20  Aug.,  1 761),  Benjamin  Trott,  b.  in  1737,  son  of  John  and 
wife  Dydia;  to  them  were  deeded  by  Joshua,  his  part  of  Peak's 
island,  where  they  resided.     Issue: 

I.  Joshua,  who  mar.  in  1799,  Elizabeth  Bartlett;  had  children, 
William;  Daniel;  George;  Jane;  Polly;  and  Sally. 

II.  Elizabeth,  who  mar.  in  1807,  Daniel  Bartlett  of  Freeport. 

III.  Abigail,  who  mar.  Samuel  Woodbury;  had  children,  Ben- 
jamin; William;  James;  Eliza  J.;  and  James  F. 

IV.  Thankful,  b.  1  Jan.,  1769. 

V.  Benjamin,  b.  30  Dec,  1770;  mar.  in  1799,  Susannah  Bartlett; 
had  children,  Samuel;  Benjamin;  Thomas  B.;  Betsey,  Sarah  A.;  and 
Dydia. 

VI.  Mary,  b.  21  Nov.,  1773;  mar.  Samuel  Rand. 

3.  Thomas,  b.  about  1703;  mar.  Martha  Wiggin,  dau.  of  Thomas; 
lived  in  Greenland;  estate  inventoried  in  July,  1753;  no  issue  known. 

1.  Samuel,  b.  about  1705.     See  division  14. 

5.  Anthony,  b.  25  Jan.,  1708.     See  division  15. 

6.  Mary,  b.  about  1709;  d.  young;  name  not  mentioned  in  will. 

7.  Abigail,  b.  in  17 10;  d.  young;  name  not  mentioned  in  will. 

<S.  Eleanor,  b.  in  171 2  ;  mar.  Folsom  and  had  six  children. 

'.'.  James,  b.  about  1714.     See  division  16. 

10.  Mary,  b.  about  1716;  d.  1  May,  1800;  mar.  24  May,  1739, 
Joseph  Fabyan,  b.  1  Apr.,  1707,  d.  15  May,  1789;  he  and  his 
brother  John,  were  the  first  of  the  name  in  Scarboro,  in  which  town 
they  lived  until  their  deaths.     Issue: 

1st.  Joshua,  b.  in  March,  1742;  mar.  Sarah  Brackett;  d.  20  June, 
1799.     Issue  (see  div.  15,  fam.  1.) 

2nd.  Mary,  bapt.  2  Feb.,  1746;  mar.  (1st)  John  Brackett  (see 
div.  15,  fam.  2)  ;    (2nd)  Pelatiah  March. 

3d.     Elizabeth,  bapt.  19  June;  1748;  mar.  William  Haggett. 

4th.  Phebe,  bapt.  1  July,  1750;  mar.  2  Dec,  1767,  Nicholas 
Dennett. 


JOSHUA,     OF     GREENLAND  93 

5th.  Mehitable,  bapt.  28  June,  1752;  mar.  James  Brackett  (see 
div.  15,  fam.  4);  d.  1  July,  1832. 

6th.     Olive,  b.  23  Oct.,  1755;  mar.  Charles  Moulton. 

11.  Keziah,  b.  1  Nov7.,  171 7;  d.  in  1765;  mar.  13  Dec.,  1738, 
Henry  Clark,  b.  23  Apr.,  17 1 7;  son  of  Henry  and  wife,  Elizabeth 
Greenleaf,  of  Newberry,  Mass.;  removed  from  Greenland,  N.  H.,  to 
Candia,  N.  H.,  in  1765.     Issue: 

1st.     Nathaniel,  b.  19  Mar.,  1744. 

2nd.  John,  b.,  20  May,  1760;  d.  21  Dec,  1831;  mar.  22  Dec, 
1785,  Lydia  Deavitt,  b.  3  Dec,  1759;  dau.  of  Joseph  of  Exeter;  a  Con- 
tinental soldier;  settled  in  Campton,  N.  H. 

Six  other  children  whose  names  have  not  been  learned. 

12.  Margaret,  b.  in  1719  ;  d.  in  1749. 

13.  Nathaniel,  b.  in  1721.     See  division  17. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 


SAMUEL  BRACKETT.  THE  FIRST  IN  BERWICK. 

Samuel  Brackett,  the  son  of  Thomas  (see  chap.  IV)  and  wife 
Mar}-  Mitton,  and  grandson  of  Anthony  Brackett,  the  immigrant, 
was  born  at  Falmouth,  Me.,  about  1672.  In  some  genealogical  pub- 
lications his  birthday  is  given  as  April  27th,  a  statement  based 
wholly  upon  another,  viz.,  that  he  was  eighty  years  of  age  at  the 
time  of  his  death,  which  occurred  on  April  27,  1752.  There  is  no 
reliable  authority  for  the  day  and  month  of  his  birth ;  he,  himself, 
perhaps  did  not  know  them.  Both  of  his  parents  were  dead  before 
he  completed  the  sixth  year  of  his  age,  and  town  and  other  records 
had  been  destroyed ;  thus  he  was  deprived  of  the  sources  from  which 
he  could  learn  his  age.  At  the  time  his  father  was  killed  he  was 
taken  captive  by  the  Indians.  It  is  traditional  that  upon  his 
redemption  by  his  grandfather  from  captivity,  he  went  to  live  with 
his  aunt  Martha  in  Kittery,  Me.  Her  husband,  John  Grove,  was  a 
very  worthy  man  ;  he  united  with  the  Quakers  and  thereby  became 
useful  in  developing  the  spleen  of  God's  chosen  people  of  the  day 
in  that  locality,  whose  delight,  next  to  a  trial  for  witchcraft,  then 
was  to  worry  a  Quaker.  Grove,  who  had  enough  sense  to  shake  the 
dust  of  the  place  from  his  feet,  went  to  Crompton,  R.  I.,  to  live, 
where  probably  he  died.  Before  his  departure  from  Berwick  he 
instilled  into  young  Samuel's  head,  something  besides  the  fanaticism 
of  the  day;  later  on,  though  we  shall  find  that  Samuel  was  con- 
nected with  the  saints  in  a  religious  way,  as  he  was  obliged  to  be  in 
order  to  dwell  in  peace,  we  shall  also  find  that  he  was  not  a  model 
saint  after  the  heart  of  Cotton  Mather. 

Samuel  Brackett  married  November  25,  1694,  Elizabeth  Botts,  the 
Rev.  Edward  Thompson,  minister  of  Berwick,  officiating.  She  was 
an  inhabitant  of  Berwick,  was  one  year  younger  than  her  husband, 
and  a  daughter  of  Isaac  Botts.  He  was  killed  October  15,  1675,  by 
the  Indians  in  an  attack  on  Salmon  Falls  in  Berwick ;  on  that  day 
they  had  killed  one  Richard  Tozier  at  his  home  not  far  from  the 
garrison  house  of  Lieutenant  Roger  Plaisted.  A  party  of  nine  men 
were  sent  out  to  reconnoiter ;  it  was  ambushed  and  Isaac  Botts  was 
one  of  three  who  were  killed.  In  a  letter  under  date  of  October  16, 
1675,  Lieutenant  Plaisted  gave  an  account  of  the  affair  and  the 
names  of  the  men  who  were  slain,  whom  he  said,  were  his  best  men. 
On  the  same  day  Plaisted,  himself,  was  killed  in  an  attempt  to 
recover  the  bodies  of  those  who  lost  their  lives  the  day  before.  Near 
to  where  he  fell  he  was  buried,  and  a  monument  has  been  erected  at 
his  grave.  It  is  supposed  that  close  to  the  place  was  buried  the  body 
of  Isaac  Botts.  His  home  was  near  to  the  center  of  the  settlement 
at  Salmon  Falls,  but  a  few  rods  from  the  mill ;  his  land  bordered  on 
Salmon  Falls  brook.     His  wife's  Christian  name  was  Elizabeth.     In 


SAMUEL,     OF     BERWICK  95 

July,  1679,  she  married  Moses  Spencer,  b.  about  1642,  d.  about  1719; 
their  children  were  Moses  Spencer,  Jr.,  b.  about  1680,  mar.  Elizabeth 
C.  Abbott,  d.  in  1746;  Isaac,  b.  about  1682,  mar.  Elizabeth  Emery, 
d.  in  1736.     Mary,  b.  about  1684,  mar.  Joseph  Jones. 

Elizabeth  Botts,  daughter  of  Isaac,  was  about  a  year  old  when 
her  father  was  killed ;  upon  her  mother's  remarriage  she  became  a 
member  of  the  family  of  Moses  Spencer,  and  was  one  of  its  members 
at  the  time  of  her  marriage  with  Samuel  Brackett.  Certainly  she 
and  young  Samuel  could  relate  doleful  tales  of  harrowing  times. 
Indian  wars  meant  sorrow  and  affliction  for  them  ;  they  meant  to 
them  in  their  married  life,  not  death  nor  captivity  it  is  true,  but  the 
living  in  block  and  garrison  houses  in  times  of  peril,  and  a  narrow 
escape  from  death  by  the  young  husband  on  one  occasion,  owing  to 
his  being  fleet  of  foot.  He  could  name  a  score  of  relatives  who  had 
been  killed  or  captured  by  the  Indians.  He  had  reached  the  six- 
teenth year  of  his  age  when  war  with  the  Indians  commenced  in  1688, 
which  continued  for  over  ten  years.  So  he  early  in  life  became  a 
soldier,  was  ever  ready  for  duty,  was  a  minute-man  of  the  time. 
From  1688  to  1693  there  were  dreadful  times  in  Berwick.  The 
inhabitants  of  Maine  were  hard  pressed  to  maintain  their  frontier 
post  in  the  town  of  Wells.  In  March,  1690,  thirty-four  people  were 
killed  and  fifty-four  were  taken  captive  by  the  Indians  in  an  attack 
on  the  settlements  of  South  Berwick.  Several  outrages  were  com- 
mitted in  the  town  in  July,  1691,  and  there  were  frequent  attacks 
during  the  years  1692  and  1693.  In  the  neighboring  towns  frightful 
massacres  occurred. 

As  a  result  of  the  successes  of  the  Indians,  Berwick  was  deso- 
lated for  three  years  ;  the  settlers  had  abandoned  their  homes  and  the 
town.  In  1693,  there  were  negotiations  with  the  Indians  for  a  peace, 
and  there  were  promises  to  that  end.  For  nearly  six  years  longer, 
hostilities  were  carried  on  in  a  desultory  way  in  Berwick,  and  there 
were  one  or  two  attacks  on  the  settlers  in  the  town.  The  settlers 
began  to  return  to  their  homes  in  the  year  1693,  and  through  the 
vigilance  and  active  service  of  the  four  companies  of  troops  stationed 
in  the  several  towns  "to  the  Eastward,"  some  degree  of  safety  was 
secured  to  the  people  of  Berwick.  Another  Indian  war  commenced 
in  1703,  and  continued  to  1713.  During  this  war  the  settlers  did  not 
desert  the  town ;  however,  many  of  them  were  compelled  to  forsake 
their  homes  and  dwell  in  block  and  garrison  houses,  and  attacks 
by  the  Indians  were  not  infrequent.  In  one  of  these  wars,  Samuel 
Brackett  was  wounded,  received  a  long  knife  cut  in  his  abdomen, 
which  let  out  his  intestines ;  these  he  hastily  gathered  in  their  place 
and  with  his  hands  tightly  pressed  over  the  wound,  he  ran  for  the 
garrison  house,  which  he  reached  without  further  accident.  This 
incident  the  writer  has  heard  his  father  relate,  to  whom  it  was  told 
by  his  grandfather,  Deacon  James  Brackett,  who  lived  near  or  with 
Samuel  Brackett  for  twenty-eight  years.  It  is  probable  that  Samuel 
Brackett  served  as  a  soldier  in  one  or  more  of  the  several  expeditions 
against  the  French,  though  nothing  is  known  as  to  his  having  so 
served. 

During  these  long  weary  years  of  war,  when  danger  to  life  was 
imminent  at  all  times,  and  every  day  brought  its  prospect  of  destruc- 
tion of  property   and   of  combat  with  a  most  determined  foe;  with 


96  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

houses  burned,  stock  destroyed,  farms  deserted  and  members  of  fam- 
ilies maimed  or  in  captivity;  in  this  land  of  desolation,  rapine,  woe 
and  want,  the  Puritan  church  official  forgot  not  to  prowl  on  a  heresy 
hunt.  If  no  better  game  than  a  delinquent,  one  who  did  not  pay  his 
tax  for  the  support  of  the  divine  or  who  did  not  frequent  the  place 
of  worship  where  said  divine  preached  his  stern  doctrine,  was 
brought  to  bay,  it  was  bagged,  though  said  official  much  preferred  to 
sec  a  Quaker  whipped  or  a  defenseless  old  woman  in  jail  on  a  charge 
of  witchcraft.  Young  Samuel  was  bagged  early  in  his  married 
life, — needed  special  care  did  young  Samuel,  as  he  had  been  reared 
by  a  Quaker.  In  June,  1696,  he  was  charged  with  the  crime  of  "not 
frequenting  the  public  worship  of  God  on  the  Lord's  day;"  later 
he  and  his  wile  were  charged  with  a  similar  offense;  he  was  fined 
five  shillings  and  she  was  admonished.  Imagine,  if  you  can,  the 
state  of  mind  of  Samuel  and  of  his  pretty  young  wife,  after  listening 
to  censure  for  their  neglect  to  support  a  church  for  which  they 
had  no  affection, — she  with  all  the  meekness  of  a  gentle,  loving 
woman,  and  he,  the  soul  of  honor  and  manhood.  The  picture  of  her 
in  modest  mien,  her  babe  in  her  arms,  listening  to  the  tirade,  is  pres- 
ent as  these  words  are  written.  The  solace  of  a  poverty-stricken, 
war-desolated  home  far  excelled  the  consolation  which  that  church 
could  afford,  though  its  minister  lived  to  preach  for  a  century  the 
promises  to  come. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  a  near  neighbor  of  Moses  Spencer;  he  lived 
at  Pound  hill,  less  than  one-half  mile  south  of  the  Country  road  to 
Rocky  hills.  His  other  neighbors  were  Deacon  Nathan  Lord, 
James  Warren,  James  Emery,  Captain  James  Grant,  and  Richard 
Heard.  He  possessed  several  tracts  of  land  at  one  time  and  another. 
June  10,  1703,  from  the  town  of  Kittery,  of  which  Berwick  was 
then  a  part,  he  received  a  grant  of  fifty  acres.  In  1709,  he  sold  fifty 
acres.  In  17 10,  he  sold  eighteen  acres  of  his  wife's  land  which  was 
purchased  by  her  father  in  167 1.  Then  we  have  this  entry  bearing 
date  May  10,  1715:  "Measured  and  laid  out  to  Samuel  Brackett 
sixty  acres  of  land  by  virtue  of  a  grant  to  Isaac  Botts  by  the  parish 
of  Unity  in  the  town  of  Kittery,  April  13,  1671,  which  Brackett  is 
husband  to  said  Botts,  his  daughter,  and  it  lies  at  the  head  of  Ser- 
geant Tozier's  land  at  Salmon  Falls." 

The  site  of  the  house  of  Samuel  Brackett  is  still  pointed  out ; 
a  small  pond  which  was  near  the  house  may  be  seen  by  visitors; 
there  remains  a  well  with  its  rugged  rock  walls,  which  tradition  says, 
he  dug.  Where  he  built  his  house,  he  lived  his  remaining  days, 
raised  his  family,  and  died.  Before  the  administration  of  his  estate 
was  completed,  his  good  wife  died  at  the  age  of  eighty  years.  The 
following  i>  a  list  of  his  personal  property,  as  shown  by  the  inventory 
made  by  his  administrator,  Samuel  Brackett,  Jr.  Cash  ,£8  New 
Hampshire  money,  or  ^5,  S15.,  our  province  (Massachusetts). 
"His  wife  de'e,  her  wearing  apparel,"  7  gowns,  3  silk  crepe  ones, 
8  petticoats,  3  under-vests,  2  silk  hoods,  1  riding  hood,  1  pair  of 
stays,  black  gauze  handkerchief,  black  fan,  1  pr.  of  sleeve  buttons, 
3  pr.  of  cotton  gloves,  muslin  and  linen  aprons,  considerable  number 
of  other  articles.  Also  1  cow,  £20 ;  2  ewes  and  2  lambs,  '£% ;  1 
heifer,  coming  in,  four  months,  ^18;  heifer's  calf,  ^3;  one  heifer, 
coining  in,  in  3  months,  ^18;  large  breeding  sow  and  shoat,  £\i; 


j:AP   OF    BERWICK. 


98  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

books,  si  i  ;  2  pewter  platters;  looking  glass;  1  woolen  wheel;  1 
great  chair;  4  old  small  ones  ;  number  of  other  articles  of  furniture. 
[ssue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.     Samuel,  b.  6  Sept.  1695.     See  chapter  IX. 

L'.  Mary,  bapt.  an  adult,  20  Dec,  1719;  d.  28  Feb.,  1773; 
mar.  Thomas  Tuttle  of  Dover.  This  family  were  Quakers  ;  children 
were  Mary;  Hope;  Sarah;  Elisha ;  Samuel;  Thomas;  Abigail; 
Ebenezer;   Reuben;  Bathsheba. 

3.  Bathsheba,  mar.  Jonathan  Abbott ;  d.  Feb.  21,  1802. 

4.  Elizabeth,  bapt.  an  adult,  20  Dec,  1719;  mar.  Samuel  Abbott. 

5.  Hannah,  mar.  Samuel  Thompson  ;  bapt.  24  Dec,  1719. 
<">.     Dorothy,  bapt.  21  Jan.,  1728. 


CHAPTER   IX. 


SAMUEL   BRACKETT.   JR.,   OF   BERWICK. 

Samuel  Brackett,  Jr.,  the  son  of  Samuel  Brackett  (see  chapter 
VIII)  and  wife  Elizabeth  Botts,  was  born  September  6,  1695,  in 
Berwick,  Maine.  He  had  reached  the  eighteenth  year  of  his  age  in 
1713,  when  ended  the  Indian  war  which  commenced  in  1703;  it  is 
probable  that  he  rendered  military  service  in  that  war.  During 
Lovewell's  war,  from  1723  to  1725,  there  were  some  disturbances — 
forays  by  the  Indians — in  the  town.  In  those  days  there  were  few 
delinquents  in  the  performance  of  military  duty,  hence  there  is  little 
doubt  that  Samuel,  Jr.,  was  a  soldier  in  Eovewell's  war.  The  town 
of  Berwick  was  organized  in  17 13.  Even  in  the  long  Indian  wars 
which  ended  during  that  year  the  population  had  rapidly  increased, 
owing  not  so  much  to  immigration  as  to  the  large  families  of  the  set- 
tlers. In  instruments  by  which  he  conveyed  land,  he  is  described  as 
"turner"  though  it  is  well  known  that  during  his  entire  life,  after  he 
reached  maturity,  he  was  engaged  in  farming.  The  Second  church 
of  Berwick  was  organized  in  1755;  he  and  his  wife  Abigail  were 
charter  members;  he  was  chosen  deacon  June  12,  1755,  and  elder 
July  21,  1768;  he  managed  to  live  on  fairly  good  terms  with  the 
parson,  was  not  fined  for  absenting  himself  from  church  on  the 
Lord's  day,  nor  was  his  wife  "admonished."  Also  he  was  honored 
in  a  political  way,  was  chosen  one  of  the  selectmen  of  the  town  in 
1749,  again  in  1750,  and  probably  held  minor  town  offices  from  time 
to  time.  The  farm  he  cleared  is  owned  by  one  of  his  descendants; 
it  has  passed  from  father  to  son  through  five  generations.  On  the 
farm  is  a  family  burying  ground  where  are  the  graves  of  Samuel 
Brackett,  Jr.,  and  of  his  wives.  At  his  grave  is  a  well  preserved 
headstone.  In  the  yard  are  graves  unmarked  by  stones,  and  these 
are  thought  to  be  the  graves  of  Samuel,  Sr.,  and  of  his  wife,  Elizabeth 
Botts. 

The  house  of  Samuel,  Jr.,  was  about  three  and  one-half  miles 
south  from  the  house  of  his  father,  on  the  westerly  slope  of  Black- 
berry hill,  quite  one-half  mile  from  the  top  of  the  hill,  two  and 
one-half  miles  east  of  Berwick  village,  three  miles  north  of  South 
Berwick  village  and  four  and  one-half  miles  west  of  North  Berwick 
village  ;  it  is  now  (1906)  the  property  of  Mr.  Benjamin  Brackett  and 
forms  (at  least  a  part  of  it)  the  ell  of  his  residence. 

The  first  wife  of  Samuel  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  Sarah  Emery.  To 
her  he  was  married  Aug.  11,  1720.  She  was  one  of  a  family  of  four- 
teen, was  born  in  Kittery  (Berwick)  Feb.  4,  1700,  d.  Dec.  20,  1742, 

was  dau.  of  Job  Emery.     He  was  b.  ,  d.  later  than  1737,  mar. 

Apr.  6,  1696,  Charity  Nason,  was  son  of  James  Emery.     He  came  to 
America  with  his  father  in  the  ship  "James,"   was  b.  in  Eng.  in 


±t 


100  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1630,  mar.  Elizabeth ,  who  died  subsequently  to  1687  ;  he  was  in 

Berwick  in  17  13,  removed  there  from  Dedham,  had  grants  in  Kittery, 
1653,  was  selectman  of  the  town  for  several  years,  elected  represent- 
ative to  the  general  court  in  1693-4-5;  was  a  large  man,  weighed 
over  three  hundred  and  fifty  pounds ;  it  is  related  of  him  that  when 
he  went  to  Boston  his  conveyance  was  an  ox-cart  on  which  was 
placed  a  chair  ;  there  was  not  a  carriage  in  Kittery  large  or  strong 
enough  to  hold  him;  died  later  than  1714,  was  son  of  Anthony.  He 
was  born  in  Romsey,  Hants,  England,  landed  in  Boston  June  3, 
1635,  was  in  Kittery,  Me.,  in  1649,  removed  in  1660  to  Rhode  Island; 

mar.  Frances ,  was  perhaps  second  son  of  John  Emery  and  wife 

Agnes. 

Charity  Nason,  the  wife  of  Job  Emery,  was  daughter  of  Jona- 
than Nason.  He  was  in  Kittery  in  1670,  was  probably  killed  in  an 
accident;  in  1691,  married  Sarah  Jenkins;  was  son  of  Richard.  He 
was  living  at  Pipestave  landing  in  Kittery  in  1639;  in  1665,  he  was 
accused  of  blasphemy;  the  general  court  "did  not  judge  him  guilty 
of  that  fact,  as  that  by  our  laws  he  ought  to  die,"  but  required  him 
to  give  a  bond  for  his  good  behavior;  he  gave  the  bond,  and  as  his 
behavior  had  always  been  so  good,  the  people  of  Kittery  elected  him 
representative  to  the  general  court ;  that  body  would  have  none  of 
him,  refused  to  permit  him  to  take  his  seat.  In  1655,  he  was  pre- 
sented (indicted)  for  not  attending  meeting.  That  he  was  a  thor- 
oughly bad  man  from  a  Puritan  point  of  view  of  the  day,  is  shown  by 
the  record  of  his  conviction,  in  1659,  of  the  crime  of  entertaining 
Quakers,  for  which  he  was  fined  five  pounds.  His  wife's  name  was 
probably  Sarah  Baker.  There  is  authority  for  saying  that  he  came  to 
America  from  Stratford-on-Avon,  where,  at  the  time  he  left,  there 
were  many  persons  of  his  name,  and  where  Nasons  are  still  found;  a 
Richard  Nason  was  there  baptized  August  3,  1606,  son  of  John 
Nason  who  married  October  28,  1600,  Elizabeth  Rogers. 

Sarah  Jenkins,  who  married  Jonathan  Nason,  was  daughter  of 
Reginald  Jenkins,  born  1608;  he  was  in  the  employ  of  John  Winter  at 
Richmond  island;  his  wife's  Christian  name  was  Ann;  they  probably 
were  Quakers. 

Samuel  Brackett,  Jr.,  married  second  September  12,  1743,  Abigail 
Cass;  she  was  the  widow  of  Thomas  Cass  of  Portsmouth  and  daugh- 
ter of  Jonathan  Banfill  of  Portsmouth.  In  1757,  administration  on 
his  estate  was  granted  to  her  second  husband.  What  is  supposed  to 
be  in  her  handwriting,  is  a  list  of  the  names,  with  dates  of  birth,  of  the 
children  of  Samuel,  Jr.;  it  is  the  oldest  family  record  of  any  of  our 
name,  and  its  contents  have  made  comparatively  easy  the  compiling 
oJ  t  lie  genealogy  of  his  descendants.  She  died  in  September,  1789. 
His  death  occurred  December  31,  1786.  He  lived  to  see  his  numer- 
ous grandsons  come  marching  home  victorious  in  a  war,  which  had 
ushered  into  life  a  nation.  It  was  not  until  after  his  death  that  there 
was  any  exodus  of  Bracketts  from  Berwick.  At  the  time  of  his 
death,  four  of  his  sons  were  residents  of  the  town.     Issue: 

1.     John,  b.  29  June,  1720.     See  division  8. 

-.     Isaac,  b.  7  Oct.,  1722.     See  division  9. 

3.  Samuel,  b.  5  Aug.,  1724.     See  division  10. 

4.  James,  b.  22  Apr.,  1726.     See  division  11. 

5.  Joshua,  b.  9  July,  1728.     See  division  12. 


SAMUEL,    JR.,     OF     BERWICK  101 

6.  Mary,  b.  2  Oct.,  1730;  mar.  John  Woodsum,  bapt.  16  Apr., 
1732,  son  of  Joseph  and  wife  Abigail  Abbott.  They  were  received 
into  the  Second  church  in  Berwick  in  1755;  she  d.  16  May,  1798;  had 
son,  Matthew,  b.  in  1749. 

7.  Elizabeth,  b.  20  Feb.,  1733;  mar.  30  Sept.,  1756,  John  Kil- 
gore;  she  d.  in  1821;  had  son,  Samuel,  b.  in  1777,  who  mar.  Sally 
Hastings  of  Eastport  and  had  ten  children. 

8.  Sarah,  b.  8  June,  1736;   bapt.  13  June,  1736;  d.  15  June,  1739. 

9.  Jacob,  b.  8  Nov.,  1737;  bapt.  20  Nov.,  1737;  d.  18  Nov.,  1739. 

10.  Joseph,  b.  7  Apr.,  1739;  bapt.  22  Apr.,  1739;  d.  7  Oct.,  1742. 

11.  Sarah,  b.  15  Nov.,  1742;  bapt.  26  Nov.,  1742;  mar.  21  June, 
1763,  Zebulon  Libby;  she  d.  4  Mar.,  1825.  Children  were  John; 
Sarah;   Susannah;   Hannah;   Lydia;   Mary;   Levi;   Ira. 

12.  Bathsheba,  b.  19  June,  1744;  mar. Pray;  d.  27  Apr.,  1806. 

13.  Joseph,  b.  22  Oct.,  1746;   d.  8  Feb.,  1755. 

14.  Olive,  b.  6  Sept.,  1750;  d.  13  Oct.,  1751. 


CHAPTER  X. 


ANTHONY  BRACKETT  OF  BOSTON. 

Anthony  Brackett  was  the  son  of  Captain  Anthony  Brackett  and 
wife  Mary  (see  chapter  V).  He  was  born,  probably  in  Boston,  Janu- 
ary 25,  1708;  mention  of  his  birth  is  contained  in  the  town  records  of 
Hampton,  Xew  Hampshire.  He  was  the  only  son  his  father  had. 
The  authority  for  this  statement  is  not  a  family  record,  but  a  deposi- 
tion made  in  court  by  Jasper  Blake  in  June,  1763, — an  instrument  of 
evidence  relative  to  the  ownership  of  land  in  Falmouth;  the  deponent 
at  the  time  was  sixty-nine  years  old  and  was  the  husband  of  Susan- 
nah Brackett,  an  aunt  of  Anthony  of  Boston,  his  father's  half  sister; 
he  removed  from  Hampton  to  Falmouth  in  1733.  Said  deposition 
reads  as  follows: 

"I  always  heard  and  understood  that  Captain  Anthony  Brackett 
of  Falmouth,  whose  first  wife  was  Ann  Mitton,  dwelt  on  a  large  farm 
in  said  Falmouth  at  a  place  called  and  known  as  Back  cove.  I  have 
also  heard  that  said  Captain  Anthony  Brackett  had  sundry  children 
by  said  Ann  Mitton,  whose  names  were  as  follows:  Anthony,  Seth, 
Mary,  Elinor  and  Keziah.  Anthony  was  the  eldest  son  of  said  Ann 
and  dwelt  in  Falmouth,  from  where  he  moved  to  Boston,  and  that  he 
followed  coasting  business  in  the  latter  part  of  his  days.  And  I 
always  heard  and  understood  that  Anthony  Brackett  of  Boston,  rope 
maker,  was  the  only  son  of  said  Captain  Anthony  Brackett  last  men- 
tioned, and  wife  Mary  *  *  *." 

Although  Anthony  of  Boston  is  mentioned  in  the  deposition  as 
following  the  trade  of  rope-maker  and  is  described  in  instruments  of 
conveyance  as  "rope  maker,"  if  he  ever  followed  that  occupation  it 
was  in  his  younger  days:  he  was  an  innkeeper  in  Boston,  where  he 
lived  all  his  life.  Perhaps,  first  married  Jan.  1,  1729,  in  Boston 
Alithea  Drown;  he  married  second  in  Boston,  February  8,  1735, 
Elizabeth  Maylem,  the  Rev.  Thomas  Prince  officiating;  she  died 
June  27,  1768;  will  dated  May  9,  1768,  proven  July  15,  1768. 

About  1733,  or  earlier,  Anthony  commenced  proceedings  to 
recover  Peak's  island.  It  will  be  remembered  that  three  of  his  aunts, 
sisters  of  his  father,  resided  in  Boston;  from  these  he  purchased  their 
respective  interests  in  Michael  Mitton's  estate.  One  of  them,  Elinor, 
married  a  Richard  Pulling  (Pullin)  of  Boston;  she  was  a  widow  in 
1731 ,  and  in  that  year  she  deeded  lands  in  Casco  to  Anthony.  The 
other  Mitton  heirs  were  the  descendants  of  the  sisters  of  his  grand- 
mother, Ann  Mitton  Brackett;  one  of  these  was  Mary  Mitton,  who 
married  Thomas  Brackett.  One  of  the  children  of  Mary  Mitton 
Brackett  was  Joshua  Brackett  who  lived  in  Greenland,  New  Hamp- 
shire, who  purchased  the  interests  of  his  mother's  other  children  in 
the  Mitton  estate.     Other  heirs  were  descendants  of  Mitton's  daugh- 


ANTHONY,     OF     BOSTON  103 

ters,  Elizabeth  who  married  Lieutenant  Thaddeus  Clark,  Sarah  who 
married  John  Andrews,  and  Martha  who  married  John  Grove.  With 
Anthony  was  associated  a  Mr.  Smith  of  Boston;  they  perhaps  pur- 
chased the  interests  of  some  of  the  last  mentioned  parties,  and  the 
two  in  conjunction  with  Joshua  Brackett  were  the* prime  movers  in 
plans  to  recover  the  Mitton  estate.  The  portion  which  was  the  sub- 
ject of  great  contention,  was  Peaks  island.  Michael  Mitton  pur- 
chased it  from  Sir  Ferdinando  Gorges,  whose  agent  in  the  business 
was,  perhaps,  his  nepew,  Thomas  Gorges.  Upon  the  death  of 
Mitton  in  about  1660,  his  widow  conveyed  the  island  to  John  Phillips 
and  to  his  son-in-law,  George  Munjoy,  husband  of  his  daughter  Mary. 
Munjoy's  daughter  Mary  married  John  Palmer;  the  heirs  of  Mary 
Munjoy  Palmer  were  among  the  parties  from  whom  the  Mitton  heirs 
sought  to  recover  Peak's  island. 

Under  date  of  March  7,  1733,  from  Boston,  Anthony  wrote  his 
cousin  Joshua  of  Greenland — 

"As  to  the  affair  of  the  island  Mr.  Maylem  and  I  expected  to 
have  heard  from  you  before  now  about  the  matter.  I  think  that  we 
should  not  be  thus  easy  about  the  matter  as  we  are.  I  think  it  will 
be  best  for  you  to  go  down  to  the  island  when  you  are  there  (Fal- 
mouth) and  if  you  find  anything  there  built  of  Munford  (as  the  word 
appears — original,  nearly  illegible)  or  any  under  him,  to  cut  it  down — 
and  then  let  him  sue  us, — and  to  take  witnesses  with  you  and  warn 
them  off  in  our  name  and  yours  and  we  will  stand  by  you  in  the 
matter.  Sir,  we  would  have  sent  you  money  before  now  if  you 
would  have  let  us  have  known  what  would  (not  deciphered),  and  we 
expect  that  you  will  be  active  in  the  affair  and  we  will  assist." 

However,  it  was  not  until  1741,  that  there  was  any  trial  in 
actions  commenced  between  the  parties.  In  that  year  there  was  a 
suit  tried  at  York,  involving  title  to  four  thousand  acres  of  land. 
The  Rev.  Thomas  Smith  of  Portland,  was  a  party  to  the  suit,  opposed 
to  the  Mitton  heirs,  and  in  his  journal  under  date  of  June  23,  1741, 
wrote  "Our  great  case  came  on  this  morning  and  was  not  finished 
till  between  nine  and  ten  at  night."  The  next  day  he  wrote  "The 
jury  brought  in  against  us." 

Peak's  island,  as  is  generally  understood,  was  involved  in  the 
suit  tried  in  1641;  there  is,  possibly,  some  doubt  that  it  was,  for  in 
1742,  said  Rev.  Thomas  Smith  claimed  to  own  one-third  of  the 
island.  As  will  be  seen,  the  two  Bracketts  and  the  Mr.  Smith  of 
Boston  were  very  active  in  their  efforts  to  acquire  possession  of  it  in 
1643,  and  did  so;  also  that  in  1643,  action  for  the  recovery  of  the 
island  was  commenced  by  the  Palmer  heirs.  It  is  thought  that  the 
letter  written  by  Anthony  to  Joshua  on  June  27,  1743,  throws  a  great 
'deal  of  light  upon  the  status  of  the  legal  proceedings  and  the  contro- 
versy, perhaps,  is  of  local  historical  importance,  and,  therefore,  its 
contents  are  here  set  forth.  It  is  indorsed  "To  Mr.  Joshua  Brackett 
at  Greenland  near  to  Portsmouth  in  Piscataqua,  to  be  left  at  Mr. 
Clark's  tavern  at  Greenland."  The  absence  of  the  deference  paid 
by  the  writer  to  Lieutenant  Joshua,  in  his  earlier  correspondence, 
and  the  repleteness  of  directions  the  following  contains,  suggest  that 
though  addressed  to  Lieutenant  Joshua,  the  letter  was  intended  for 
Joshua  Jr.  of  Falmouth. 


104  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

"Boston,  June  27,  1743. 
Mr.  Joshua  Brackett. 

I  received  a  letter  from  you  dated  April  the  first  and  I  wrote 
you  an  answer  to  that  letter  and  enclosed  in  it  a  lease  or  acknowl- 
edgement from  William  Davis  that  he  holds  possession  of  Peak's 
Island  in  the  right  of  Michael  Mitton  heirs  and  is  tennant  to  them. 
I  have  since  received  another  letter  from  you  wherein  you  write  that 
you  have  received  my  letter  and  the  writing  under  William  Davis' 
hand,  which  I  desire  you  to  keep  very  safe,  which  may  be  of  great 
benefit  to  lis.  I  suppose  you  was  in  haste  when  you  wrote  your  let- 
ter to  me  for  you  do  not  write  fully  of  the  particulars  of  the  case.  I 
wish  you  had  and  that  you  had  sent  me  a  copy  of  the  writ  against 
Mr.  Davis,  that  I  and  Mr.  Smith  might  have  asked  advice  of  the 
lawyer  here,  which  would  be  of  advantage  to  you  as  well  as  others 
of  the  Mitton  heirs;  but  now  Mr.  Smith  and  I  are  at  a  great  loss 
what  to  do.  You  write  that  the  case  is  to  be  tried  at  York  in  July. 
I  pray  that  you  will  inform  Mr.  Parker  and  Mr.  Livermore  fully  of 
our  case;  it  will  be  needful  for  you  to  get  an  attested  copy  of  George 
Cleaves  and  Thomas  George's  deed  to  Michael  Mitton  and  the 
assignment  that  Mitton's  widow  made  of  it  to  George  Phillips  or 
George  Munjoy,  by  which  it  will  appear  that  the  widow  Mitton  had 
no  right  or  power  to  dispose  of  the  island,  and  Mr.  Parker  and 
Livermore  will  know  how  to  act  properly  in  the  case.  I  earnestly 
desire  that  you  will  give  Mr.  Parker  and  Mr.  Livermore  good  fees 
and  pay  them  the  money  and  desire  them  to  do  the  best  they  can  for 
our  interests;  and  then  I  believe  they  will  do  all  that  may  be  needful 
for  us.  I  think  that  we  shall  lose  the  case  at  the  inferior  court, 
which  I  shall  not  be  sorry  for;  it  may  be  of  advantages  to  us  for  then 
we  can  appeal  to  the  superior  court;  and  if  we  are  cast  at  the  inferior 
court  I  desire  that  you  will  give  bond  to  prosecute  the  appeal  at 
the  superior  court.  Ask  advice  of  Mr.  Parker  and  Mr.  Livermore 
about  it  and  do  all  that  is  needful  that  we  may  have  the  case  tried  at 
the  superior  court,  and  then  bring  all  our  strength  and  title  by  which 
it  will  appear  that  the  island  doth  belong  to  the  Mitton  heirs;  and 
I  hope  we  shall  overcome  our  enemies  that  try  to  take  it  from  us.  I 
desire  that  you  will  be  very  kind  and  generous  to  Mr.  Davis  and 
make  him  easie,  and  then  he  will  be  true  to  our  interests  and  do  the 
best  he  can  for  us  when  the  case  is  tryed  at  York,  whether  we  are 
cast  or  not  I  desire  that  you  will  get  an  attested  copy  from  the  clerk 
of  the  inferior  court  of  the  writt  against  Mr.  Davis  and  all  the  other 
papers  that  may  be  put  into  court  relating  to  the  case  and  send  them 
to  me  as  soon  as  may  be.  I  desire  that  you  will  be  very  careful  that 
all  things  may  be  done  according  to  law.  Let  nothing  be  wanting 
on  your  part  that  may  be  done  and  I  and  Mr.  Smith  will  pay  our 
proportion  of  the  money  for  the  charges  and  assist  you  to  the  utmost 
of  our  power.  Time  will  not  admit  to  enlarge,  but  I  earnestly  desire 
you  will  do  the  best  you  can  and  write  fully  to  me  about  the  case, 
and  we  will  write  to  you  again  in  little  time.  Mr.  Smith  and  I 
intend  to  appear  at  the  superior  court  with  all  the  papers  and  hope 
we  shall  recover  the  island  which  is  our  just  due.  I  have  not  time 
to  enlarge,  but  money  nor  our  assistance  shall  not  be  wanting. 
Show  this  letter  to  Mr.  Parker  and    Mr.    Livermore.     Enclosed  is 


I 

ANTHONY,     OF     BOSTON  105 

attested  copy  of  Cleaves  and  Georges  deed  to  Mitton  and  the  widow 
Mitton's  assignment  to  John  Phillips.     I  am,  your 

humble  servant, 

Anthony  Brackett." 

The  title  to  the  island  was  the  subject  of  litigation  as  late  as 
1763;  in  1762,  a  suit  was  tried  in  the  inferior  court,  and  in  the  supe- 
rior court  in  1763;  the  party  then  opposed  to  the  Mitton  claimants, 
wTas  a  Capt.  John  Waite,  a  Palmer  heir,  and  two-ninths  of  the  island 
was  awarded  to  him.  The  Rev.  Thomas  Smith  entered  in  his  diary, 
"Capt.  Waite  recovered  against  the  Bracketts  two-ninths,  i  e  one- 
ninth  he  purchased  of  Pullen  and  wife,  which  some  years  before  I 
had  purchased  of  them  and  the  deed  recorded;  whether  that  may  not 
be  considered  my  possession?"     He  never  got  it. 

It  is  generally  accepted  by  those  who  have  written  as  to  this 
contest,  that  Captain  Waite  recovered  two-ninths  under  the  Palmer 
title;  it  may  be  that  he  did,  but  it  is  thought  that  he  recovered  as 
a  purchaser  from  some  of  the  Mitton  heirs;  that  "Pullen  and  wife" 
were  Richard  Pulling  and  wife  Elinor  Brackett  of  Boston;  it  is  not 
understood  how,  if  as  an  heir,  Captain  Waite  recovered,  that  either 
the  Mitton  title  or  the  Palmer  title  was  considered  good  to  the  entire 
island,  as  one  of  them  must  have  been.  "The  Bracketts"  referred 
to  in  Parson  Smith's  diary  were  Anthony  Brackett  and  Joshua 
Brackett,  brothers,  of  Portland,  sons  of  Joshua  of  Greenland,  N.  H., 
and  possibly  Anthony  of  Boston,  though  it  is  probable  that  the  latter 
had  conveyed  his  interest  to  the  brothers  before  1763. 

As  before  said,  Anthony  was  an  innkeeper;  for  nineteen  years, 
from  1741  to  1760,  he  was  the  proprietor  of  Cromwell's  Head  inn 
on  School  street,  Boston;  after  his  death  his  widow  kept  the  inn  until 
her  death,  when  his  son  Joshua  conducted  the  business.  Mr.  Jeffrey 
Richardson  says  in  his  genealogy  of  the  Bracketts  (descendants  of 
Captain  Richard) —  "In  the  Boston  Directory  of  this  year  (1789), 
I  find  'Joshua  Brackett,  inn-holder.  Cromwell's  Head,  South  Latin 
street'  *  '*  *.  An  Anthony  Brackett  kept  the  tavern  in  1760  and 
probably  died  in  1764;  after  his  decease,  I  learn  that  his  widow 
carried  on  the  tavern  a  few  years,  and  that  in  front  of  the  door  was 
suspended  a  swing  sign  with  a  shipwreck  painted  on  it,  and  under 
it  this  inscription — 

T  am  compassed  with  sorrows  round 
Please  lend  a  hand  my  ship's  aground.' 

The  tavern  at  this  time  was  quite  a  resort  for  seamen  and  stood 
opposite  the  Universalist  church  where  is  now  (1857)  Palmer's 
drug  store." 

Mr.  Albert  S.  Pratt,  (died  December  9,  1902),  who  resided  on 
Brookline  street,  Boston,  a  descendant  of  Anthony,  was  of  the  opinion 
that  the  tavern  with  the  sign  of  the  shipwreck  was  not  the  one  which 
was  kept  by  his  ancestors.     Under  date  of  March  9,  1901,  he  wrote — 

"George  Cleeve  was  the  agent  of  Alexander  Rigby,  when  Crom- 
well became  Lord  Protector  and  deputy-governor  of  the  province 
then  called  Ligonia — Rigby's  province.  This  would  indicate  where 
our  Anthony  got  the  name  for  his  inn,  'Cromwell's  Head.'  *  *  *. 
I  do  not  think  Mr.  Jeffrey  Richardson's  account  of  the  inn — its  exact 
location  or  character,  is  strictly  accurate.  Cromwell's  Head  Inn  was 
a  little  further  down  School  street.     The  sign  was  a  head  of  Crom- 


106  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

well — of  \  -liich  I  have  an  imprint.  It  was  a  gentleman's  inn  as 
distinctive  from  the  lower  class  of  inns  of  sailors,  mechanics,  appren- 
tices, etc.  It  is  said  that,  during  the  occupation  of  Boston  by  the 
British  troops,  the  sign  was  ordered  taken  down  by  the  military 
officers,  as  it  hung  very  low  over  the  walk  and  people  had  to  stoop  in 
passing  under  it.  The  'ship-in-distress  tavern'  was  in  the  vicinity 
of  North  square,  not  in  School  street." 

The  Cromwell's  Head  inn  was  a  wooden  building;  in  1802,  it 
was  advertised  for  sale.  It  is  said  that  Colonel  George  Washington 
was  a  guest  at  the  tavern,  when  a  young  man. 

Anthony  died  in  1764;  his  will  was  probated  during  that  year; 
items  in  the  inventory  were  tracts  of  real  estate  in  Falmouth  and 
Gorham;  a  pew  in  Dr.  Sewall's  church,  and  among  other  effects  a 
Negro  boy,  value,  ,£46-13-4.  In  his  will  he  mentioned  that  his  two 
sons  Anthony,  and  Maylem,  went  "beyond  seas  and  never  heard 
from,"  and  called  his  son  Joshua,  "supposed  eldest  son."     Issue: 

1.  Anthony;  a  sailor;  probably  perished  at  sea. 

2.  Maylem;  a  sailor;  probably  perished  at  sea. 

3.  Joshua,  b.  in  1738;  mar.  6  Oct.,  1763,  Abigail  Pond  of 
Dedham,  Mass.;  d.  at  the  age  of  56  years;  estate  was  administered  in 
1794;  was  proprietor  of  Cromwell's  Head  inn  from  1768  to  time  of 
his  death;  had  one  dau.,  Abigail,  b.  in  1780,  who  mar.  13  Apr.,  1796, 
Major  Erastus  Lyman  of  Northampton,  Mass.;  she  died,  leaving  sur- 
viving one  child,  Abigail  Brackett.  Major  Lyman  removed  from 
Northhampton  to  Vermont.  During  the  War  of  the  Revolution 
Joshua  served  on  committees  of  safety  and  correspondence. 

4.  Elizabeth,  b.  15  Jan.,  1741;  mar.  in  1760,  Ebenezer  Simpson,  b. 
21  Mar.,  1741,  d.  11  Dec,  1796;  shed.  12  Feb.,  1831.     Issue: 

1st.  Joshua  B.  2nd.  Abigail  B.  3d.  Elizabeth  B.  4th.  Sarah. 
5th.     Mary    R.;    all    of   whom    died    under    the   age   of    six   years. 

6th.  Sally,  b.  5  Nov.,  1776;  mar.  5  Sept.,  1802,  John  Pratt  of 
Boston,  who  d.  at  Cohasset,  Mass.,  6  May,  1834;  she  d.  in  Boston, 
13  Apr.,  1849.     Issue: 

I.  John,  b.  29  June,  1803;  mar.  31  July,  1825,  Mary  Lambord  of 
Boston,  where  she  d.  22  Sept.,  1886;  he  d.  in  Boston  21  Nov.,  1884. 
Issue:      All  b.  in  Boston. 

a.  Sarah  E.,  b.  14  May,  1827;  mar.  3  Jan.,  1850,  Samuel  W. 
Ripley;   d.  28  Jan.,  1853,  in  Boston.     Issue: 

a.  Charles  T.,  b.  1  Dec,  1850;  mar.  28  Apr.,  1875,  Mary  P. 
Ropes  of  Salem;  reside  in  Dorchester,  Mass.;  had  son,  Walter  B.,  b. 
2  Aug.,  1 88 1,  in  Boston. 

b.  Charles  H.,  b.  21  Aug.,  1829;  mar.  6  Feb.,  1855,  Rachel  M. 
Williams,  b.  6  Aug.,  1834;  he  d.  at  Chelsea,  Mass.,  20  June,  1888. 
Issue: 

a.  Sarah  E.,  b.  11  Jan.,  1856,  in  Boston;  d.  5  Sept.,  1857. 

b.  Alice  M.,  b.  20  Nov.,  1857,  in  Boston;  mar.  22  Oct.,  1878, 
George  W.  Chicken;  had  Helen  M.,  b.  8  Apr.,  1881,  and  George 
H.,  b.  22  Mar.,  1885;  d.  31  Mar.,  1885. 

c.  Mary  E.,  b.  11  May,  i860,  in  Boston;  mar.  20  Nov.,  1875, 
Preston  J.  Calley;  had  Bertha  M.,  b.  2  Mar.,  1877;  Gladys  L-,  b.  22 
Jan.,  1889;  Charles  T.,  b.  1  Jan.,  1893;  Norman  Brackett,  b.  11 
Dec,  1807. 


ANTHONY,     OF     BOSTON  107 

d.  Helen  G.,  b.  16  June,  1865,  in  Boston;  mar.  24  June,  1888, 
George  \V.  McBride;  had  Marion  Pratt,  b.  3  Jan.,  1890,  Winthrop, 
b.  19  Nov.,  1894. 

e.  John,  b.  18  Oct.,  1867;  d.  22  Nov.,  1872. 

f.  Charles  H.,  b.  26  Oct.,  1869;  d.  7  Nov.,  1870. 

g.  Charles  A.,  b.  26  June,  1874,  at  Chelsea. 

c.  Albert  Stevens,  b.  24  May,  1833,  in  the  rear  of  Christ's  church, 
Boston,  Mass.  His  father,  John  Pratt,  was  well  known  as  secretary 
of  the  overseers  of  the  poor  of  Boston  for  many  years.  His  mother, 
Mary  Lambord,  was  a  lineal  descendant  of  Richard  Floyd  of  Chelsea, 
who  was  one  of  the  historic  tea-party,  which  dressed  as  Indians,  threw 
the  cargo  of  tea  into  Boston  harbor.  After  leaving  school  he  went 
to  work  for  the  dry  goods  firm  of  Lamb  and  Hanson  on  Bath  street, 
and  later  became  book-keeper  for  Champney  Bros.,  located  at  corner 
of  Milk  and  Devonshire  streets  of  which  firm  he  was  admitted  a 
member.  In  i860,  he  was  appointed  sole  agent  for  New  England  for 
Clark's  O.  N.  T.  spool  cotton  and  was  connected  with  the  company 
until  his  death  9,  Dec.  1902.  Was  a  member  of  the  Vowel  Club, 
and  also  served  as  president  of  the  Eliot  School  association.  Repre- 
sented old  ward  1  in  1864,  in  the  common  council;  also  from  1867  to 
1870  inclusive,  represented  the  ward  in  the  board  of  aldermen;  as 
chairman  of  committee  on  clocks  and  bells,  had  the  first  clock  put 
in  the  steeple  of  the  old  Christ  church  on  Salem  street;  was  the 
originator  of  the  order  of  the  board  of  aldermen  to  widen  Hanover 
street  to  sixty  feet  from  Court  street  to  Chelsea  ferry.  Was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  First  Corps  of  Cadets  at  the  time  of  the  Cooper  street  riots 
and  did  service  in  front  of  Read's  gun-store  in  Fanueil  Hall  square 
and  at  the  State  House;  married  7  Dec,  1858,  Julia,  dau.  of  Benja- 
min Dodd.      Issue: 

a.  Julia  Marion,  mar.  in  1890,  Albert  Wiley. 

b.  Carrie  Maud,  b.  7  Oct.,  1862;  mar.  24  May,  1894,  Charles 
Edward  Kelsey;  reside  Montvale  road,  Newton  Center,  Mass.;  chil- 
dren are  Robert  Pratt,  b.  17  July,  1896,  and  Marion,  b.  17  Aug., 
1899. 

d.  William,  b.  18  Aug.,  1834;   d.  20  June,  1888,  in  Chelsea. 

II.  Charles  of  Cohasset,  Mass.  III.  Caleb  S.  of  Boston.  IV. 
William  H.,  married  twice;  all  deceased.  V.  Elizabeth  Brackett, 
spinster,  is  deceased.  VI.  Sarah  S.,  spinster.  VII.  Mary  S.,  mar. 
F.  B.  Studley;   reside  in  Cohasset. 

7th.  Polly,  b.  12  May,  1780;  d.  30  May,  1862;  mar.  5  Feb.,  1804, 
John  Stevens.     Issue:     All  b.  in  Boston. 

I.  Elizabeth  Brackett,  b.  13  Nov.,  1804;  d.  5  Sept.,  1890;  mar.  1 
Oct.,  1833,  Thomas  W.  Seavers,  b.  17  June,  1803.     Issue: 

a.  John  Stevens,  b.  8  July,  1834;  d.  same  day. 

b.  Thomas  W.,  Jr.,  b.  .5  Oct.,  1835;  mar.  6  Nov.,  1867,  Deborah 
Jane  Norton  nee  Parker  of  Kalamazoo,  Mich.     Issue: 

.  12  Oct.,  1868;   is  married. 
.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1871;  mar.  Ada  W.  Burgess. 
.  31  Nov.,  1839. 

b.  26  July,  1806;  d.  16  Dec,  1889.     III.  John,  Jr., 
d.  13  Aug.,  1851.     IV.     Albert,  b.  17  July,  1S10; 
d.  23  Dec,  1831'.     V.     Cordelia  M.,  b.   21  June,  1812;  mar.  7  Apr., 
i83t    Josiah  Fuller;  shed.  10  Jan.,  1892.     Issue: 


a. 

John  A.,  b. 

b. 

Clarence  P 

c. 

Mary  R.,  b 

II. 

Emily  C, 

b.  21 

Dec,  1807; 

108  BRACKETT    GENEALOGY 

a.  John  S.,  b.  18  Nov.,  1838;  mar.  Mary  A.  Wetherbee;  reside  at 
Wellesley,  Mass. 

b.  William  K.,  b.  8  Mar.,  1841;  d.  26  Aug.,  1890;  mar.  Lucy  J. 
Wetherbee,  who  d.  16  Dec.,  1899.     Issue: 

a.  Marion  E.,  b.  27  June,  1863;  mar.  Richard  A.  Oldrieve;  she  d. 
[2  Aug.,   [888. 

b.  Walter  C,  b.  28  Mar.,  1866;  mar.  1  Sept.,  1886,  May  M. 
Marston;  reside  at  Waltham;  had  Gertrude  M.,  b.  20  Dec,  1889, 
and  Gladys  M.,  b.  20  Dec,  1892;   d.  in  Sept.,  1893. 

c     William  E.,  b.  16  Nov.,  1867;  mar.  Delia  Foley. 

d.  Arthur  S.,  b.  2  May,  1872;  mar.  Eva  May  White;  reside  in 
Westboro,  Mass.;  had  Marion  S.,  b.  19  June,  1895,  and  William,  b. 
17  July.  1898. 

e.  Alfred  S..  b.  30  Dec,  1875;  mar.  Amy  Sauers;  reside  in  West 
Newton;  had  Dorothy  S.,  b.  7  Apr.,  1898. 

f.  Grace  E.,  b.  11  Mar.,  1881. 

g.  Chester  Brackett,  b.  25  Mar.,  1885. 

c.  George  G.,  b.  6  May,  1845;  mar.  Abba  S.  York  of  Freeport, 
Me.;  d.  29  Mar.,  1899.     Issue: 

a.     Herman  D.,  b.  4  Apr.,  1880. 

V.  Mary  Augusta,  b.  2  Aug.,  1815;  resided  in  1901  at  22  Hol- 
yoke  St.,  Boston. 

VI.  Harriette  S.,  b.  23  Aug.,  1819;  d.  27  Aug.,  1819. 
5.     Thomas,  b.  about  1742.     See  division  2. 

(').     Mary,  b.  about   1743;   d.  17  Aug.,  174S;  age,  5  yr.  and  8  mo. 

7.  Benjamin,  b.  about  1745,  was  a  mariner;  mar.  19  July,  1791, 
Hannah  Davis;  served  as  private  in  Capt.  Isaac  Martin's  company, 
Col.  Ezra  Woods'  regiment,  Maj.  Gen.  Spencer's  brigade;  marched 
17,  Apr.  1777,  to  Rhode  Island;  served  23  days.  Roll  sworn  to  at 
Boston.  Died  without  issue  in  1794.  Deeds  of  surviving  brothers 
and  sisters  to  his  property  are  not  signed  by  the  brothers  "who  went 

nd  seas,"  indicating  that  they  had  not  returned. 

8.  Mary,  who  mar.  14  Jan.,  1767,  Aaron  Willard  of  Lancaster, 
Mass. 

9.  Nathaniel;  was  a  soldier  in  the  patriot  arm}-  during  the  War  of 
the  Revolution.     No  further  record. 


Jut  -^^,  L^u^~  s<^jjU^  t  S^Uc^A 


CHAPTER   XI. 


CAPTAIN  RICHARD    BRACKETT.   THE    IMMI- 
GRANT.  OF   BRAINTREE. 

Captain  Richard  Brackett  was  one  of  the  first  of  the  name  in 
America.  With  certainty  is  it  known  that  he  was  in  the  colony  of 
Massachusetts  Bay  as  early  as  1630 ;  he  probably  came  with  Winthrop 
in  1629.  With  his  descendants  the  tradition  is  as  general,  as  is  the 
tradition  of  a  flood  among  the  different  peoples  of  the  earth,  that  three 
brothers  by  the  name  of  Brackett  were  among  the  first  colonists  in 
New  England.  Other  Bracketts  in  the  Bay  colony  at  an  early  date 
were  Peter  Brackett  of  Boston,  and  Thomas  Brackett  of  Salem. 

In  1629,  the  year  he  came  to  America,  Richard  Brackett  was 
only  seventeen  years  old.  There  is  his  own  statement  on  oath  tend- 
ing to  show  that  the  year  of  his  birth  was  161 2;  he  testified  by 
affidavit,  011  July  2,  1668,  that  he  was  fifty-six  years  old.  However, 
on  his  tombstone  is  inscribed  that  he  died  in  March,  1690,  and  was 
then  eighty  years  old;  if  true,  he  was  born  as  early  as  1610.  His 
exact  age  is  of  interest,  bearing,  as  it  does,  on  the  question  whether 
or  not  he  was  accompanied  by  a  guardian  when  he  came  to  America. 
That  he  was  so  accompanied,  it  is  reasonable  to  presume,  as  it  also  is 
that  the  guardian  was  Peter  Brackett,  who  probably  was  his  elder 
brother. 

Captain  Richard  Brackett  enjoyed  the  confidence  and  patronage 
of  the  ruling  powers  of  the  colony  from  an  early  age  in  his  life;  on 
quite  all  matters  pretaining  to  religion  and  politics  his  views  harmo- 
nized fully  with  theirs,  and  it  is  not  known  that  he  was  at  variance 
with  them  at  any  time  on  either  question.  He  took  a  decided  stand 
against  a  large  majority  of  the  people  of  Braintree.  on  an  important 
matter  involving  their  pecuniary  interests,  which  will  be  related  in  its 
proper  connection.  His  life  can  be  cited  as  typical  in  quite  all  partic- 
ulars pertaining  to  his  conduct  as  a  man  and  a  religionist,  as  strictly 
puritanical.  The  mundane  rewards  which  were  his  to  enjoy,  seem  to 
have  been  quite  all  the  honors  and  favors  which  fall  to  one  who  seeks 
rather  to  follow  than  to  lead,  and  to  follow  closely  upon  the  heels  of 
those  who  do  lead.  He  seems  to  have  gotten  a  fair  share  of  those 
things  the  colonists  had  to  divide  among  themselves,  to  have  been 
fairly  successful  in  his  undertakings,  and  to  have  possessed  a  good 
estate  at  the  time  of  his  death. 

On  August  27,  1630,  he  was  among  the  colonists  with  whom 
Governor  Winthrop  organized  the  First  church  of  Boston;  the  instru- 
ment is  dated  at  Chariest  own.  Mr.  Jeffrey  Richardson  wrote  that  the 
church  structure  "was  at  first  a  low  thatched-roofed  building  which 
was  soon  removed,  and  one  was  built  where  Brazier's  building  is  on 
State  street."  With  this  church  he  remained  for  twelve  years,  when 
he  removed  to  Braintree.     Under  date  of  September  8,  1635,  one  can 


110  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

read  in  the  church  records  that  "Alice  wife  of  our  brother  Richard 
iCatUn-t   Brockett  signed  the  Covenant." 

H^-Wr  ]jL.  was  but  twenty-three  years  of  age  in  1635,  and  had  probably 

~iol%       been    married    but  a   short   time  when   his  wife    joined  the   church. 
~^-    Where  the  marriage  took  place  or  what  was  his  wife's  maiden  name, 
e  has  not  been  learned.      He  was  admitted  freeman  in  Boston,  May  25, 

otuer  1636,  and  on  November  23,  1636,  he  became  a  member  of  the  Ancient 
and  Honorable  Artillery  Company.  Shortly  prior,  viz.,  March  21, 
1636,  he  was  granted  a  lot  upon  which  to  build;  his  choice  was 
limited  to  lots  "not  being  built  upon  (and)  is  free  to  be  otherwise 
disposed  of."  He  made  selection  of  a  lot  now  on  Washington  street, 
nearly  midway  between  the  present  West  and  Boylston  streets; 
he  erected  a  house,  about  which  was  his  garden,  and  there  resided 
until  about  November  20,  1637,  when  he  was  appointed  by  the  gen- 
eral court,  keeper  of  the  prison.  His  salary  and  perquisites  were 
^13,  6s,  i8d  (increased  to  ,£20,  June  6,  1639),  and  the  use  of  a  dwell- 
ing house.  The  following  year  he  sold  his  property  on  Washington 
street.     In  Vol.  I,  p.  25,  of  Boston  Town  Proceedings  is  recorded: — 

"Granted  to  our  Brother  Richard  Brackett  to  sell  his  howse  and 
yarding  June  11,  1638." 

The  property  was  sold  to  a  Mr.  Joseph  Leger. 

The  Town  Proceedings  give  some  information  as  to  his  occupa- 
tion prior  to  his  removal  to  Braintree;  under  date  of  February  12, 
1639,  it  is  recorded  that  leave  was  granted  "to  our  Bro.  Rich.  Brackett 
to  mowe  the  Marsh  lying  in  the  Newfield  which  he  hath  usually 
mowen,  for  this  next  summertime."  It  is  clear  that  he  had  some- 
thing to  do  in  addition  to  his  duties  as  jailer,  had  an  eye  open  for 
municipal  windfalls,  and  a  penchant  for  agriculture. 

So  strong  within  him  was  the  desire  to  lead  the  life  of  a  husband- 
man,—  in  preference  to  that  other  calling  so  many  of  his  fellow  com- 
patriots followed,  viz.,  fishing,  at  which  not  a  few  acquired  a  deal  of 
wealth  for  the  day, — that  he  decided  to  turn  his  attention  quite 
wholly  to  farming.  Necessarily,  to  carry  out  his  intention,  he  must 
leave  Boston. 

In  relating  the  period  of  his  life  when  he  is  about  to  change  his 
place  of  residence,  to  leave  Boston,  it  is  proper  to  mention  the  refer- 
ence to  Richard  Brackett,  by  S.  G.  Drake  in  his  History  and 
Antiquities  of  Boston.  It  occurs  in  his  picture  of  Spring  L,ane,  at 
its  conclusion,  as  he  recalls  the  first  settlers  visiting  the  spring,  and  in 
these  words: — 

"And  grim  Richard  Brackett,  the  jailer,  may  have  laid  down-his 
halberd  to  quaff  a  morning  draught." 

Its  briefness  tells  how  pressed  for  data  pertaining  to  those  early 
settlers,  was  the  author,  when  it  is  known  that  these  few  words 
present  the  information  he  had  relative  to  grim  Richard. 

The  writer  has  heard  it  stated  that  the  jailer  described  in  Haw- 
thorne's Scarlet  ketter,  was  grim  Richard.  It  is  hardly  thought 
that  said  description  is  of  the  individual,  that  the  author  had  in  mind 
any  particular  person  when  he  wrote. 

Mr.  Jeffrey  Richardson  mentions  that  Captain  Richard  Brackett 
'  was  jailer  for  many  years.      It  is  certain  that  he  held  the  position  to 
the    time  of   his   removal  to  Braintree.     Whether  he  held  it  subse- 
quently to  his  removal,  there  is  nothing  to  show. 


RICHARD,     OF     BRAINTREE  111 

The  "marsh  lying  in  the  Newfield  which  he  hath  usually  mowen," 
and  which  grim  Richard  was  granted  leave  to  mow  February  12,  1639, 
was  at  Mt.  Wollaston  in  Braintree,  at  the  time  a  part  of  the  town  of 
Boston.  It  was  at  the  same  mount  where,  some  seventeen  years  or 
more  prior,  Thomas  Morton  and  his  men  set  up  in  business,  much 
to  the  annoyance  of  the  Plymouth  colony.  Their  Maypole  exercises 
were  of  the  merriest  kind,  and  these  and  other  doings  brought  the 
merry-makers  in  such  ill  repute  that  they  were  driven  out  of  the  country 
by  the  outraged  saints.  Braintree  was  incorporated  in  1640.  Captain 
Richard  was  not  only  one  of  the  early  settlers  of  the  town,  but  also  was 
associated  with  its  incorporation.  He  removed  to  Braintree,  perhaps, 
about  1 64 1  or  1642.  The  time  is  fixed  by  the  date  of  his  dismissal  by 
the  church  in  Boston,  concerning  which  there  is  uncertainty;  in  some 
publications  the  date  of  dismissal  is  given  as  December  5,  1641;  in 
others,  May  8,  1642.  Under  the  latter  date,  the  records  of  the  First 
church  of  Boston  read: — 

"Our  Bro.  Richard  Brackett  was  granted  by  the  church  to  be 
Dismissed  to  ye  church  at  Braintree  at  theer  desire  with  ye  Office  of 
Deacon  amongst  you." 

The  lights  of  the  First  church  of  Boston  entertained  a  high 
opinion  of  the  integrity  of  the  young  deacon,  and  this  opinion  was 
snared  by  the  Boston  town  authorities,  as  will  be  seen.  The  church 
in  Boston  appears  to  have  exercised  a  parental  care  over  the  new 
church  in  Braintree,  and  insured  its  well  being  by  patronizing  it  with 
one  of  its  model  members  as  a  deacon.  He  was  ordained  deacon 
July  21,  1642.  This  office  in  the  church  at  Braintree,  grim  Richard 
filled  to  the  day  of  his  death. 

There  were  tracts  of  land  in  Braintree  that  were  owned  or  claimed 
by  the  town  of  Boston;  it  appointed  Captain  Richard  to  oversee  these 
tracts  as  its  agent,  as  the  following  shows: — 

"Agreed  with  Captain  Richard  Brackett  of  Braintree  that  he 
should,  in  the  town's  behalf,  take  care  that  noe  wast  or  strip  of  wood 
or  timber  be  in  the  land  belonginge  to  this  town  lyinge  neere  theier 
towne;  but  do  his  utmost  to  prevent  it,  or  give  information  to  the 
Selectmen.  In  consideration  whereof  he  hath  libertie  to  cutt  out  of 
the  wood  already  fallen  to  the  value  of  40  cord.     25  Dec.  1676." 

Another  time  Captain  Richard  was  granted  by  the  town  of 
Boston: — 

"Libertie  to  cut  soe  much  Tymber  upon  the  Common  land  of 
Braintree  as  may  serve  for  ye  buildinge  of  a  i  pte  of  a  vessel  of  25 
Tun,  in  consideration  of  his  care  of  the  timber  lands." 

Vol.  6,  p.  237,  Suffolk  County  Deeds,  reads: — 

"Richard  Brackett  of  Braintree,  husbandman,  sells  30  acres  of 
woodland  in  township  of  Braintree  but  belonging  to  Boston,  and  abt 
25  \x-ars  past  by  sd  town  of  Boston  gtd  and  laid  out  to  other  men  as 
by  record  of  said  town  appeareth.      25  Oct.  1660." 

Clearly,  grim  Richard  was  a  trusted  agent  of  the  town  of  Boston. 

There  was  another  tract  of  considerable  extent  in  Braintree, 
which  the  town  of  Boston  claimed.  Quite  all  or  a  large  part  of  the 
tract,  the  town  of  Braintree  purchased  from  an  Indian  chief.  It  was 
the  desire  of  a  great  portion  of  the  people  to  commence  action  for  the 
recovery  of  the  tract  from  Boston.  This  was  opposed  by  a  few  of  the 
town,  notably  by  Richard  Brackett  and  Edmund  Quincy.     They  and 


112  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

a  Mr.  Samuel  Thompson,  in  March,  1682,  were  appointed  a  com- 
mittee to  treat  with  the  town  of  Boston.  The  contest  was  a  prolonged 
one;  as  late  as  1687,  he  was  opposing  the  institution  of  proceedings 
by  Braintree  against  Boston,  for  the  recovery  of  the  land.  Ultimately, 
a  committee  of  which  he  was  a  member,  secured  for  Braintree,  by  set- 
tlement, what  is  known  as  the  s'ix-hundred-acre  lot. 

He  early  became  one  of  the  town's  officials;  was  its  first  town 
clerk  and  held  the  office  for  some  years.  In  1652,  he  was  chosen 
selectman,  and  again  in  1670  and  1672.  The  highest  office  his  towns- 
men could  bestow  upon  him  was  that  of  deputy  to  the  general  court. 
He  was  first  selected  to  this  position  in  1643;  next,  in  1655;  again,  in 
1665;  in  the  latter  year  the  colony  had  need  of  the  services  of  its  ablest 
men  in  its  contest  over  the  province  of  Maine  with  the  heir  of  Gorges. 
It  required  the  counsel  of  such  men  as  grim  Richard  to  successfully 
steer  the  ship  of  state  amidst  the  shoals  and  breakers,  which  were  in 
her  course  during  the  stormy  period  of  the  restoration. 

Again,  in  1667,  grim  Richard  was  Braintree's  deputy  to  the  gen- 
eral court.  Also,  commencing  with  1671,  in  said  capacity  he  served 
for  four  consecutive  years,  when  there  was  a  long  interlude  before  he 
went  again  as  deputy.  The  reason  was  that  there  was  sore  need  of 
his  sendees  in  another  capacity.  In  the  year  1675  commenced  King 
Philip's  war,  which  continued  until  the  latter  part  of  the  following 
year.  Before  it  closed,  hostilities  commenced  in  Maine,  and  no  last- 
ing peace  was  secured  with  the  Indians  until  1679.  Until  such  peace 
had  commenced,  grim  Richard  did  not  represent  Braintree  in  the  gen- 
eral court,  where  he  again  took  his  seat,  and  for  the  last  time,  in  1680. 

As  intimated,  he  served  his  people  in  a  military  as  well  as  in  a 
civil  and  a  religious  way.  He  was  chosen  sergeant  on  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  train-band  in  Braintree,  and  held  the  rank  for  a  few  years 
until  he  was  promoted  to  that  of  lieutenant;  was  the  second  to  hold 
that  office  in  the  company.  About  1654,  he  was  appointed  captain  of 
the  company,  the  third  to  be  so  honored.  For  promotion  to  this  office 
it  was  necessary  that  the  approval  of  the  candidate  should  be  made  by 
the  general  court — which  was  promptly  done  in  his  case.  The  fol- 
lowing year  he,  himself,  was  also  a  member  of  the  general  court. 

Judging  from  the  promptitude  he  exercised  in  his  own  and  the 
tt.u  ti's  affairs,  and  the  regularity  he  observed  in  quite  all  his  business 
transactions,  it  is  ventured  that  there  was  not  a-  better  drilled  and 
more  thoroughly  capable  train-band  in  the  province  than  the  one  com- 
manded by  grim  Richard.  Though  Braintree  was  near  to  Boston,  as 
secure  from  attack  by  the  Indians  as  any  of  the  towns,  it  did  not 
escape  unscathed  during  King  Philip's  war.  There  was  hardly  a 
town  that  did  not  suffer  at  the  hands  of  the  able  chieftain.  On  Feb- 
ruary 25,  1675,  the  Indians  made  a  raid  on  Braintree  and  killed  four 
persons;  in  March,  1676,  another  person  was  killed.  On  the  occasion 
ol  these  and  other  alarms,  grim  Richard's  men  promptly  assembled  at 
the  garrison  houses  where  were  collected  the  women  and  children; 
scouts  were  despatched  to  ascertain  the  course  and  doings  of  the  enemy; 
messengers  were  sent  to  neighboring  towns  to  give  warning  and  sum- 
mon aid,  and  an  energetic  pursuit  was  organized.  Likewise,  when 
raids  were  made  by  the  Indians  in  the  neighboring  towns  to  Braintree, 
as  frequently  happened,  messengers  from  these  towns  brought  the 
news  of  these  attacks  to  its  people,   and  grim  Richard  and  his  train- 


RICHARD,     OF     BRAINTREE  113 

band  were  soon  in  motion.  It  is  regretted  that  hardly  a  scrap  has 
been  preserved  of  the  part  taken  in  King  Philip's  war,  by  Captain 
Braekett  and  his  company.  Almost  nothing  has  come  down  to  ns, 
except  the  following,  which  probably  is  of  some  interest: 

The  raids  by  the  Indians  caused  the  colony  to  establish  a  garri- 
son on  or  near  the  line  between  the  towns  of  Braintree  and  Bridge- 
water.     The  military  committee  of  the  general  court  appointed  a  Mr. 
Richard  Thayre  to  take  charge  thereof.     This  Thayre  was  ambitious 
to  earn  his  wages  and  a  name  for  vigilance.     He  raised  an  alarm  on 
the  most  meager  of  rumors,   stalked  all  the  phantoms  of  the  wilder- 
ness, and  stampeded  at  the  approach  of  a  horse  or  a  cow  of  any  color. 
Night  and  clay  he  had  the  people  of  Braintree  afright  at  an  immediate 
prospect  of  being  swooped   down   upon  by  the  able  chieftain  and  a 
thousand  of  his  braves;   had  grim  Richard  stirred  up  and  his  anger 
thoroughly  aroused;  his  men  worn  out  by  keeping  constant  ward  and 
watch  because  of  Thayre's  numerous  scares  and  bugaboos.     At  last, 
one  day  happened  what  Thayre  prayed  Dame  Fortune  to  take  place. 
One  of  Kino  Philip's  men,  John  George,   a  poor  half-starved  wretch, 
on  his  hand  and  knees  went  through  the  snow  to  the  garrison  house 
and    surrendered, —  he    was  too   weak    to   walk.     He   was   the  only 
Indian  that  was  seen  by  Thayre  and  his  garrison  during  their  cam- 
paign.    He  proceeded  to  make  the  most  of  his  luck;   his  achievement 
in  the  capture  of  John  George,   was  loudly  proclaimed  as  an  instance 
of  his  vigilance  and  as  evidence  that  real  Indians  were  in  the  country. 
He  kept  John  George  in  the  garrison  house  for  five  weeks  "at  the 
expense  of  the  towne," — was  desirous  of  getting  the  Indian  in  good 
physical  condition  as  an  exhibit.      What  with  being  constantly  on  the 
alert  for  weeks,  marching  and  countermarching  at  all  seasons,  night 
and  day;  with  being  continually  prepared  for  attacks  that  were  never 
made;  with  one  false  alarm  but  passing  away  before  another  was  cur- 
rent, grim  Richard's  patience  was  sorely  strained.     He  had  to  put  up 
with  it  all,  for  Thayre  was  the  general  court's  man.     However,  when 
Thayre  got  a  live  Indian  whom  he  kept  in  the  garrison  house  at  the 
expense  of  the  town,   an  opportunity  was  presented  to  do  something. 
The  old  jailer  thought  the  jail  was  a   good  enough  place  for  John 
George.     Grim  Richard  was  not  the  man  to  play  at  see-saw  when  he 
had  the  means  wherewith  to  do  something  effectual.     He  went  with  a 
detail  to  the  garrison  house  where  Thayre  was  boarding  John  George, 
took  him  away  from  his  keeper  and  carried  him  forthwith  to  Boston. 
It  was  Tha}Te  who  did  the  protesting  and  petitioning;  said  that  he 
had   a  grievance  and  that  all  his  bills  were  not  paid  by  the  town. 
Grim  Richard  had  ready  the  evidence  of  his  men  in  support  of  the 
course  he  had  taken,  which  was  approved  by  those  in  authority. 

The  general  court,  in  its  might,  took  upon  itself  to  banish  the 
poor  Indian  from  the  country,  so  its  records  read;  that  is,  he  was  sold 
into  slavery.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  grim  Richard  did  not  turn  the 
Indian  loose. 

In  Braintree,  during  his  life,  Captain  Richard  was  among  the 
first  in  its  church,  military  and  civil  affairs.  He  was  held  in  high 
esteem  in  Boston  and  other  adjoining  towns  to  Braintree,  as  he  also 
was  in  the  surrounding  towns.  In  all  of  these  towns  he  had  an 
extensive  acquaintance  with  men  of  prominence,  residents  thereof;  by 
some   of  them  he  was  nominated  in  their  wills  to  administer  their 


114  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

estates,  and  was  nominated  by  the  court  to  administer  the  estates  of 
others,  upon  the  petition  of  members  of  their  respective  families;  his 
name  is  frequently  met  with  in  such  capacities.  His  selection  for 
such  trusts  attests  his  high  standing  for  integrity  in  the  families  of 
the  decedents. 

There  is  another  position  he  filled,  of  which  mention  should  be 
made,  viz.,  that  of  school  master.  Mr.  Jeffrey  Richardson  is  author- 
ity that  Captain  Brackett  was  one  who  taught  the  school  in  Braintree. 

As  he  advanced  in  years  he  sought,  but  not  too  hastily,  to  dis- 
burden himself  of  offices  whose  duties  were  cumbersome  and  brought 
him  little  or  no  returns,  and  to  look  after  positions  where  pay  was 
attached  for  sen-ices  performed.  He  could  disclaim  all  sinister 
motives  for  his  course,  as  he  had  freely  devoted  the  best  years  of  his 
life  to  the  common  cause. 

The  records  of  the  general  court,  under  date  of  October  15,  1684, 
read:  — 

"On  request  of  Captain  Richard  Brackett  being  73  years  of  age 
and  the  infirmities  of  age  upon  him:  having  formerly  desired,  and 
now  again  to-day,  to  lay  down  his  place  as  chief  military  commander 
in  Braintree,  the  court  granted  the  request  and  appointed  Lieut. 
Edmund  Ouincy  to  succeed  him." 

At  the  time  he  had  been  connected  with  the  company  for  upwards 
of  forty-three  years,  and  for  thirty  years  was  its  captain. 

On  the  petition  of  the  inhabitants  of  Braintree,  he  was  appointed 
October  15,  1679,  to  marry  and  to  take  oaths  in  civil  cases. 

In  Braintree  his  pursuit  was  farming;  in  deeds  and  other  instru- 
ments of  record  he  is  described  as  a  husbandman.  He  had  his  choice 
of  the  best  land  in  the  town  and  acquired  a  considerable  estate. 
When  the  town  of  Billerica,  Mass.,  was  incorporated,  he  became  a 
freeholder  there,  and  two  of  his  sons  and  two  daughters  settled  in 
Billerica.  His  years  following  his  advent  in  Braintree,  until  he  was 
well  past  middle  life,  were  devoted  to  the  breaking  and  clearing  of  his 
farm.  Once  done,  he  had  time  for  other  pursuits,  such  as  teaching 
school,  administering  estates  and  performing  other  services  of  a  semi- 
clerical  and  professional  kind.  At  whatever  age,  he  was  busy,  had 
his  daily  duties  in  one  or  another  capacity.  At  all  times  he  was  a 
highly  honored  and  respected  personage  in  Braintree,  and  reached, 
along  all  lines,  religious,  military  and  civil,  such  positions  as  he  could 
have  had  a  laudable  ambition  to  attain. 

His  wife  was  his  lifelong  companion  from  the  time  of  their  mar- 
riage. Her  death  occurred  in  1689.  No  stone  marks  the  place  of 
her  burial,  but  it  is  supposed  that  it  is  near  his  grave.  He  died 
on  March  5,  1690,  "after  an  eminently  useful,  active  and  pious  life," 
wrote  his  descendant,  Mr.  Jeffrey  Richardson,  Jr.  He  is  buried  in  the 
north  precinct  of  Braintree,  now  Quincy.  On  the  stone  which  marks 
his  last  resting  place  one  can  read: — 

"Here  lyeth  buried 

ye  body  of 

Captain  Richard  Brackett 

Deacon 

Aged  80  years 

Deceased  March  5 

1690" 


RICHARD,     OF     BRAINTREE  H5 

J  .  .  B 

A  silver  cup  inscribed  r  &  a  used  in  the  Unitarian  church  in 
Braintree  (which  in  early  days  was  Congregational),  at  communion 
service,  is  the  gift  of  Richard  Brackett  and  his  wife  to  the  church. 

His  will  reads: — 
"January  29,  1689. 

In  the  name  of  God,  amen. 

I,  Richard  Brackett  of  Braintree  in  New  England,  being  mindful 
of  my  mortallyty  and  being  of  memory  and  of  a  disposing  mind  a 
trusting  in  God  though  Jesus  Christ,  my  only  savior  for  eternal  life 
salvation,  revoking  and  making  null  all  former  wills  by  me  made,  do 
make  and  ordain  this  my  last  will  and  testament  as  followeth. 

My  will  is  that  all  my  just  debts,  if  any  be,  be  first  paid,  and 
funeral  charges  be  defrayed 

Item.  I  give  and  bequeath  unto  my  beloved  wife,  Allice 
Brackett,  all  my  estate  in  housing,  orchards,  lands,  and  meadows  in 
Braintry  for  her  comfortable  subsistance  during  her  natural  life,  as 
also  the  income  of  my  estate  at  Billerica. 

Item.  I  give  to  the  children  of  my  sou  John  Brackett  one- 
fourth  part  of  all  my  land  and  meadows  and  housing  in  Billerica,  as  it 
shall  fall  by  equal  division,  to  be  equally  divided  to  them  and  their 
heirs.  My  meaning  is  the  children  that  he  had  by  his  wife,  Hannah 
Brackett.  " 

Item.  I  give  and  bequeath  the  remaining  three  parts  of  my 
housing,  and  lands,  and  meadows  in  Billerica  to  my  son  Peter 
Brackett,  and  son-in-law,  Simon  Crosby,  and  son-in-law,  Joseph 
Thompson,  and  to  their  heirs,  to  be  equally  divided  between  them. 

Item.  I  give  to  my  son  Peter  Brackett  five  pounds  in  current 
pay,  to  be  paid  by  my  executors. 

Item.  My  will  is  that  the  division  of  my  lands  in  Billerica,  as 
above  disposed,  shall  be  made  by  indifferent  men,  the  persons  con- 
cerned in  each  fourth  part  to  choose  one  man. 

Item.  My  will  is  that  the  children  of  my  son  John,  and  Peter 
Brackett,  Simon  Crosby  and  Joseph  Thompson,  shall  pay  unto  the 
two  daughters  of  my  son  Joseph,  deceased,  Elizabeth  and  Sarah, 
twenty  pounds  a  piece  in  good  pay  when  they  shall  attain  the  age  of 
twenty  years  respectively;  and  in  want  of  the  payment  of  said  forty 
pounds,  they,  the  said  Elizabeth  and  Sarah,  shall  have  one-half  of  the 
land  above  mentioned,  to  them  and  to  their  heirs,  to  be  equally 
divided  to  them.  And  in  case  either  of  said  Elizabeth  or  Sarah  shall 
die  without  issue,  the  legacies  to  her  given  shall  be  to  the  survivor.  I 
give  to  the  said  Sarah,  the  daughter  of  my  son  Josiah,  five  pounds  in 
current  pay,  and  the  feather  bed  her  mother  carryed  away. 

Item.  I  give  to  my  son  James  all  of  my  now  dwelling  house, 
barn,  orchard,  land  and  meadows,  lying  and  being  in  Braintry  afore- 
said, next  and  immediately  after  my  wife's  decease  (excepting  what 
may  be  necessarily  expended  for  her  maintenance  during  her  life)  to 
him  and  to  his  heirs  forever. 

Item.  I  give  to  my  son-in-law  Joseph  Crosby  ten  pounds  in 
good  pay  which  ten  pounds,  with  the  five  pounds  given  to  my  sou 
Peter  Brackett  as  above,  is  to  be  paid  within  two  years  after  myne 
and  my  wife's  decease. 


1113  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Item.  I  give  unto  my  daughter  Hannah  Brackett  tw  s  of 
shillings  in  good  pay.  I  give  my  great  bible  to  my  dauglns 
Rachel  Crosby  for  her  use  during  her  life,  and  at  her  decease  to  b^ 
to  my  grandchild  Abigail  Thompson. 

Item.  I  give  to  Hannah  Brackett,  daughter  of  my  son  John, 
the  featherbed  which  she  lyeth  on,  and  bolster  what  belonged  to  it 
and  my  bedsted  at  Billerica,  with  as  much  movable  goods  as  shall 
amount  to  twenty  pounds. 

Item.  I  give  and  bequeath  to  my  beloved  wife,  Allice  Brackett, 
all  the  rest  of  my  movables  for  her  comfortable  sustenance  while  she 
lives,  and  to  be  disposed  of  by  her  to  whom  she  please  at  her  death. 

Item.  I  appoint  and  nominate  my  sou  James  Brackett  to  be 
sole  executor  to  this  my  last  will  and  testament,  and  in  testimony  that 
this  is  my  last  will  and  testament,  I  have  hereunto  set  my  hand  and 
seal  the  day  and  year  above  written. 

Signed,  scaled  and  published  in  presence  of  us,  John  Ruggles, 
Senr.  and  John  Ruggles,  Jr. 

(  Signed)  John  Parmenter. 

Whereas  1    have  given  to    my  grandchild    Sarah  Brackett,   the 

daughter  of  my  son  Josiah  Brackett,  deceased,  five  pounds,  my  will 

is  that  it  shall  be  null  and  void  and  of  none  effect;   as  also  the  ten 

pounds  given  to  Joseph  Crosby,  I  give  to  his  daughter  Anna  Crosby. 

(Signed)   Christopher  Webb.  #^% 

Richard  Brackett      #seal# 

Boston,  December  19,  1690.  •  -'m^M 

Approved  John  Ruggles,  sen. 

John  Ruggles,  Jr.,  both  at  Braintree  appearing  at  Probate." 

Peter  Brackett,  a  near  relative,  probably  a  brother  of  Richard, 
was  in  Boston  as  early  as  1630.  In  1640,  he  owned  land  in  Braintree, 
adjoining  the  land  of  Richard  Brackett;  mention  is  made  in  the  town 
records  of  there  being  in  his  family  twelve  persons  who  had  come  that 
year  to  the  town  to  reside.  He  was  admitted  freeman  in  1643;  elected 
a  member  of  the  general  court  in  1644,  and  several  times  in  subse- 
quent years;  joined,  in  1648,  the  Ancient  and  Honorable  Artillery 
Company;  remained  a  resident  of  Braintree  for  several  years,  when 
he  returned  to  Boston  where  he  died;  buried  July  24,  16S8.  Was  one 
of  the  founders  of  the  Old  South  church  in  1669. 

He  was  twice,  if  not  three  times,  married;  if  he  had  but  two 
wives  the  Christian  name  of  the  first  was  Priscilla;  if  he  had  three 
wives  the  name  of  the  first  is  unknown.  Priscilla  was  the  mother  of 
many,  if  not  of  all  of  his  children;  she  died  between  1663  and  1666. 
In  the  latter  year  he  married  Mary,  the  widow  of  Nathaniel  Williams; 
she  was  the  mother  of  five  children  by  her  first  husband,  and,  per- 
haps, was  well  stricken  in  years  at  the  time  of  her  marriage  with 
Peter  Brackett.  In  her  will,  made  in  1679,  it  is  mentioned  that  she 
had  the  permission  of  her  husband  to  dispose  of  her  estate. 

No  evidence  has  been  found  of  the  disposition,  by  will  or  by 
other  process,  of  the  estate  of  Peter  Brackett.  If  it  is  true  that  he 
had  ten  children  in  1640,  he  had  a  very  large  family,  as  of  the  thir- 
teen children  whose  names  follow,  but  five  were,  perhaps,  born  before 
1640.  So  far  as  has  been  learned  his  children  were  (not  in  order  of 
birth): 


RICHARD,     OF     BRAINTREE  117 


Peter,   no  further  record. 


Martha,   mar.  23  May,  1655,  Robert  Twelves. 

Daughter,   mar.  before  Feb.,  1666,  to  Upham. 

Daughter,   mar.  before  Feb.,  1666,  to  Cooke. 

!\iscilla,   mar.  before  Feb.,  1666,  Nathaniel  Reynolds. 

John,  b.  30  Sept.,  1641;  mar.  2  Aug.,  1662,  Sarah  Steadman, 
dau.  of  John  of  Cambridge;  d.  12  Dee.,  1666.  Estate  inventoried 
over  ,£1,000.  In  will  is  mentioned  "sister  Upham"  (perhaps  then  a 
widow),  "Brother  Cooke,"  "Brother Twelves,"  "Brother  Reynolds," 
"Brother  Nathaniel  Braekett"  and  "sister  Sarah  Brackett."  Widow 
mar.  (2nd)  Dr.  Alcock  of  Boston;  (3d)  Hon.  Thomas  Graves;  (4th) 
Col.  John  Phillips  of  Charlestown.     Issue: 

1st.     Sarah,  bapt.  5  June,  1664;  d.  19  Sept.,  1665. 
2nd.     John  (posthumous),  b.  21  Apr.,  1667;   mentioned  in  will;   no 
further  record. 

7.  Joseph,  b.  13  Oct.,  1642:   d.  24  Jan.,  1662. 

8.  Sarah,  living  in  1666. 

9.  Nathaniel,  b.  about  1648,  perhaps  earlier;  was  a  witness  in 
1662,  to  a  deed  of  land  by  an, Indian  to  Peter  Brackett.  A  Nathaniel 
Brackett  lived  in  Salem,  where  he  d.  in  17 10,  aged  62  years.  No 
further  record. 

10.  Hannah,  b.  14  Aug.,  1656;  perhaps  mar.  Shaw. 

11.  Ruth,  b.  23  Nov.,  1660;  dau.  of  "Peter  Brackett  and  wife 
Prescilla,"  the  record  reads. 

12.  Mary,  b.  and  d.  in  1661. 

13.  Mary,   living  in  1679. 

A  Thomas  Brackett  settled  in  Salem,  Mass.  In  1658,  he  was 
punished  for  attending  Quaker  meetings;  his  estate  was  inventoried 
in  1668.  The  Christian  name  of  his  wife  was,  perhaps,  Alice.  The 
probate  records  of  Essex  county  show  will  of  Alse  Brackett  of  Salem, 
dated  June  20,  1688;  proved  November  25,  1690.  She  willed  her 
estate  to  her  grandson,  Thomas  Ward,  a  minor,  "who  hath  lived  with 
me  and  been  helpfull  unto  me  in  my  old  age;  but  if  said  Thomas 
shall  secure  ye  Legacy  ordained  by  ye  general  court  of  his  father's 
estate,  deed,  which  is'fifty  pounds,  then  the  said  Thomas  shall  pay  to 
his  brothers  and  sister  ^5  pounds  each."     Issue: 

1.  Thomas,  bapt.  7  Dec,  1645;  d.  at  age  of  22  years. 

2.  Mary,  bapt.  4  Feb.,  1649;  perhaps  mar.  Ward,  and  had  chil- 
dren, Thomas,  Samuel,  John  and  Eydia;  all  living  in  1688. 

3.  Joseph,  bapt.  15  June,  1651;   d.  young. 

4.  Lydia,  d.  young. 

As  there  is  a  tradition  that  three  brothers  by  the  name  of  Brackett 
were  among  the  first  colonists  in  Massachusetts,  and  it  is  found  that 
Richard,  Peter  and  Thomas  Brackett  were  in  Massachusetts  at  an 
early  date,  the  inference  is  strong  that  they  are  the  ones  to  whom  the 
tradition  relates.  In  this  connection  should  be  mentioned  that  with 
the  brothers,  perhaps,  came  a  sister;  of  her  nothing  more  is  known 
than  that  in  the  work  of  Mr.  Jeffrey  Richardson  one  can  read:— 

"1641  June  26,  (Richard  Brackett)  was  with  wife  Alice  and  his 
sister  dismissed  from  First  church  in  Boston  with  letter  to  church  con- 
nected therewith  at  the  Mount." 


118  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

A.S  meager  as  is  the  evidence  of  relationship  between  Richard, 
Peter  and  Thomas  Brackett,  equally  so  is  the  evidence  which  has 
been  obtained  pertaining  to  their  ancestry  and  the  place  in  England 
from  whence  they  came.  The  only  scrap  that  has  been  found  which 
sheds  any  light  on  these  questions,  has  reference  to  a  Richard 
Brackett's  entrance  into  Cambridge  University,  England,  and  reads: — 

"Brackett,  Richard,  of  Wreningham,  Norfolk,  son  of  Richard 
Brackett  mediocris  fortunes,  deceased.  School,  Norwich,  four  years; 
at  Corpus  Christi  College,  six  months.  Age  21.  Admitted  pensioner, 
Mr     [3,    1574-" 

The  foregoing  is  an  extract  from  the  matriculation  or  admission 
book  ol  Gonville  and  Caius  College,  Cambridge,  England,  as  it 
appears  in  "The  East  Anglian  Magazine,  or  Notes  and  Queries  on 
Subjects  connected  with  the  Counties  of  Suffolk,  Cambridge,  Essex 
and  Norfolk"  (New  Series,  Note  1,  pp.  17-1 1 7 — 1885-6). 

While  there  is  no  certainty  that  the  Richard,  schoolmaster  of 
Braintree,  Mass.,  was  connected  with  the  Richards  of  Wreningham 
parish,  though  there  is  sufficient  to  warrant  belief  that  he  was  their 
relative,  there  are  these  certainties,  viz.,  that  said  persons  of  Wren- 
ingham were  Bracketts,  not  Brocketts,  had  attained  considerable  dis- 
tinction as  early  as  the  year  1550,  and  that  the  name  is  one  of  an  old 
English  family,  such  as  may  and,  perhaps,,  did  have  its  coat  of  arms. 
Not  knowing  anything  as  to  these  matters  more  than  has  been  related, 
they  are  submitted  to  the  consideration  of  the  reader,  in  the  belief 
that  the  future  will  make  known  the  secrets  of  the  past  pertaining  to 
them, 

1.  Hannah,  bapt.  4  June,  1634,  in  Boston;  mar.  (1st)  Samuel 
Kinsley,  who  d.  21  May,  1662,  in  Billerica,  Mass.;  he  was  son  of 
Elder  Stephen,  who  d.  in  Milton,  Mass.,  4  June,  1673,  and  wife, 
Elizabeth,  who  d.  10  Jan.,  1668;  mar.  (2nd)  Deacon  John  Blanchard 
(Blancher),  who  d.  in  Dunstable  in  1693;  resided  in  Charlestown 
from  [653  to  1639,  in  Chelmsford,  Mass.,  from  1662  to  1680,  when  he 
removed  to  Dunstable,  Mass.  (now  Nashua,  N.  H.).  She  survived 
her  husband,  and  was  killed  by  the  Indians  in  Dunstable,  3  July, 
17"').      Issue,  by  1st  husband,  Samuel  Kinsley: 

1st.      Hannah,  b.  27  July,  1656,  in  Braintree. 

2nd.  Elizabeth,  b.  22  Now,  1657,  in  Braintree;  mar.  John  Cura- 
mings,  and  had  dan.  Hannah,  b.  20  May,   1693. 

Samuel,   b.   23  Nov.,  1660;   d.    19  Jan.,    1661. 

Issin-  by  2nd  husband,  John  Blanchard:  Joseph;  Josiah;  Benjamin; 
James;  Joseph;  Nathaniel;  Thomas;  Martha;  John;  Sarah;  Mary. 

2.  John,  bapt.  7  May.  1637;  mar.  (1st)  6  Sept.,  1661,  Hannah 
French,  who  d.  9  May,  1674;  (2nd)  31  May,  1675,  Ruth  Ellice 
(Ellis),  widow  of  Joseph,  nee  Morse,  b.  in  Dedham,  Mass.,  3  June, 
[637,  d.  25  Sept.,  1692,  in  Dedham,  dan.  of  John,  (b.  in  161 1,  d.  in 
[657,    in    Boston,)   and    wile,    Annis  Chickering,  who  d.   in   Dedham, 

1  Sept.,  [693.  John  Brackett  lived  in  Billerica,  Mass.;  was  allotted 
land  there  in  [66o,  which  adjoined  the  land  allotted  to  his  brother 
Peter;  took  the  oath  of  freeman  in  1670;  d.  18  Mar.,  1687.  After  his 
death  his  widow,  with  the  lour  younger  children,  went  to  Dedham  to 
live.      Issue: 

1st.      Hannah,  b.  1  Dec,  1662;  mar.  Joseph  Bass. 

2nd,  Elizabeth,  b.  7  June,  1664;  mar.  16  Nov.,  1691,  Daniel 
Draper. 


RICHARD,     OF     BRAINTREE  119 


3d.     Mary,  b.  12  Feb.,  1665;   mar.  in  1683,  Edward  Spalding. 

4th.     Sarah,  b.  11  Dec,  1667. 

5th.     Tvaehael,  b.  30  Sept.,  1669. 

6th.     Abigail,  b,  31  Dec.,  1770;  d.  11  Jan.,  

7th.     Bathsheba,  b.  10  Mar..,  1672;   d.  24  Apr.,  1673. 

8th.     Samuel,  b.  4  Mar.,  1673;   no  further  record. 

9th.     Sacak,  b.  9  May,  1674,  the  day  of  her  mother's  death. 

10th.     John,  b.  9  June,  1676;   d.  young. 

11th.     Ebenezer,  b.  19  Oct.,  1677.     See  division  18. 

12th.     John,  b.  10  Dec,  1680.     See  division  19. 

13th.  Bethia,  b.  25  May,  1682. 
v  3.  Peter,  bapt.  7  May,  1637,  in  Boston;  was  twin  with  John;  mar. 
7  Aug.,  1661,  Elizabeth  Bosworth,  who  d.  30  Nov.,  1686;  mar.  (2nd) 
30  Mar.,  1687,  Sarah  Foster,  7iee  Parker,  sister  of  Joseph,  of  Roxbury 
and  Cambridge;  she  d.  8  Apr.,  1718;  Peter  lived  in  Billerica,  took 
the  oath  of  freeman  there,  30  Oct.,  1680;  was  a  farmer.     Issue: 

1st.     Elizabeth,  b.  21  Feb.,  1662;  d.  27  Feb.,  1663. 

2nd.     Jonathan,  b.  2  July,  1668;   d.  n  Mar.,  1671. 

3d.      Elizabeth,  b.  3  Apr.,  1671;   no  further  record. 

4th.     Bethia.  b.  16  Apr.,   1674;   d.  25  Mar.,  1675. 

5th.  Mary,  1).  10  Feb.,  1680;  mar.  16  May,  1704,  Jonathan  Hull 
of  Billerica. 

4.  Rachel,  bapt.  3  Nov..  1639,  in  Boston;  mar.  15  July,  1659, 
Simon  Crosby  of   Billerica;   had  children,   Simon,  who  mar.  Hannah  , 

;    Thomas,    b.    10  Mar.,    1666;    Joseph,    b.    5    July,    1669,    mar. 

6  May,  [691,  Sarah  French  of  Billerica;  Anna,  b.  30  Mar.,  1673; 
Nathan,  1>.  9  Feb.,  1675,  mar.  Mary  Shed,  d.  11  Apr.,  1749,  in 
Billerica;  Josiah,  b.  n  Mar.,  1677,  mar.  Mary  Manning,  d.  2  Nov., 
1703,  in  Billerica;  Mary,  b.  23  Nov.,  1680,  mar.  7  Aug.,  1701,  in 
Billerica,  John  Blanchard,  b.  3  July,  1677,  in  Charlestown,  Mass.; 
she  d.  7  May,   1  748,  in  Billerica,  and"  he,  10  Apr.,  1750,  in  Boston. 

5.  Mary,  b.  12  May,  1641;  mar.  1  Feb.,  1662,  Joseph  Thompson, 
1).  1  May,  1640;  (1.  13  (>ct.,  1732,  son  of  Rev.  Mr.  Wm.  Thompson  of 
Braintree,  b.  in  England,  [598,  d.  10  Dec,  1666;  she  d.  23  Mar. 
1671;  had  children,  Mary,  b.  18  Nov.,  1663;  Joseph,  b.  8  Apr.,  1666; 
Abigail,  b.  16  Apr.,  166.x,  mar.  16  Dec,  1701,  John  Watkins  of 
Charlestown;  William  B.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1670,  d.  22  Dec,  1694;  Deborah, 
b.  29  Sept.,  1676. 

6.  James,  b.  about  1645.  in  Braintree;  mar.  about  1674,  Sarah 
Marsh,  b.  22  Dec,  1649,  in  Hingham,  Mass.,  d.  6  Oct.,  1727,  dau. 
of  Thomas;  he  was  1).  in  England,  in  1618,  d.  2  Sept.,  1659,  mar.  in 
Hingham,  Mass.,  Sarah  Beal,  was  son  of  George;  he  and  wife,  Eliza- 
beth, came  to  America  in  1635,  and  settled  in  Hingham.  Sarah  Beal 
was  b.  in  1624,  in  England,  was  daughter  of  John  and  wife,  Nazareth 
Hobart;  Sarah  mar.  (2nd)  in  Braintree,  7  July,  1662,  Edmund 
Sheffield,  d.  in  Nov.,  17m,  aged  about  86  years.  Soon  after  his  mar- 
riage, James  deeded  land  in  Hingham,  his  wife's  property,  which  she 
inherited  from  her  father.  In  these  instruments  of  conveyance  he  is 
described  as  "cooper."  It  is  probable  that  in  early  life  he  followed  the 
trade  in  Boston,  to  which  city  he  removed  in  1673,  or  earlier;  the 
records  of  the  First  church  of  Braintree -read:  —  "James  Brackett,  a 
child  of  this  church  dismissed  to  the  Third  church  in  Boston  9  Febru- 
ary 1673,"  and  in  the  records  of  the  Third  (Old  South)  church  in  Bos- 


120  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ton,  it  is  chronicled  that  he  was  admitted  a  member  2  Mar.,  1673.  The 
time  of  his  return  from  Boston  to  Braintree,  is  shown  by  his  readmis- 
sion  19  March,  1682,  into  the  First  church  there,  he  having  been 
"dismissed    to    us   from    the    Third    church    in    Boston."     His   wife 

me  a  member  of  the  church  in  Braintree  11  Aug.,  1694.  It  is 
probable  that  he  did  not  marry  until  he  removed  to  Boston.  Nor  is 
it  certain  that  he  resided  continuously  in  Boston  from  1673  to  his 
return  to  Braintree  in  [683;  there  is  evidence  that  for  a  time  he 
resided  in  Beverly;  a  James  Brackett  took  the  oath  of  freeman  there  in 
1673;  he  was  admitted  a  freeman  in  Boston  12  May,  1675.  In  1695, 
he  was  sergeant  of  the  military  compan\r  in  Braintree;  was  select- 
man in  1701  and  1703;  clerk  in  1689  and  1694;  appointed  in  1700,  to 
run  the  line  between  Braintree  and  Weymouth.  By  his  will,  dated 
5  Apr.,    1  7  r  S ,   he  bequeathed  to  son  Joseph,  all  lands  and  meadows 

:  of  the  highway,  about  seven  acres,  "and  4  acres  in  the  600 
acres;"  it  recites  that  he  had  already  given  son  Nathan,  one  hundred 
and  fifteen  pounds,  "and  in  addition  thereto  I  give  him  4  acres  of  my 
meeting  house  lot;"  also  a  lot  of  woodland,  about  twenty-- four  acres, 
"lying  beyond  the  sawmill  of  Edward  Lattlefield."  To  wife,  Sarah, 
during  her  life,  house,  barn  and  improvements  of  land;  sons  Joseph 
and  Nathan  are  to  provide  for  her  and  their  unmarried  sisters  and 
have  property  upon  death  of  their  mother.  Mentions  daughters, 
-  rah,  Mary,  and  Hannah  Brackett,  Deborah  Baxter,  and  son-in-law, 
Richard  Faxon. 

On  the  tombstone  at  his  grave  can  be  read:  — 

"Here  lyes 
Ye  body  of 
Mr.  James  Brackett 
Who  died  ye  8  day  of  April 
1718, 
.    In  ye   73  year 
of  his  age." 
(Old  burial  ground,  Quincy,  Mass.) 

Issue: 

1st.  Joseph,  b.  5  Nov.,   1675.      See  division  20. 

2nd.  Nathan,  b.  23  Sept.,  1678.     See  division  21. 

3d.  Sarah,  b.   22  Oct.,    1680;    unmarried  at   time  of   her  father's 

death;  probably  mar.  5  Feb.,  1728,  Edward  Adams  of  Milton. 

4th.  Mary,   b.  30  Aug.,    1782;  unmarried  at  time  of  her  father's 

death;  no  further  record. 

5th.  Deborah,  1).  15  Aug.,  1685,  in  Braintree;  mar.  13  Jan., 
1 7 13,  Samuel  Baxter  of  Braintree;  had  children,  Samuel,  b.  11  July, 
1715:  Charles,  b.  25  Apr.,  1717;  Deborah,  b.  30  Aug.,  1722;  twins, 
son  and  dau.,  b.  and  d.  last  week  in  Nov.,  1723. 

ntl'.  Anne  (Hannah),  b.  18  July.  1687,  in  Braintree;  mar. 
30  Dec,  1709,  Richard  Faxon  of  Braintree,  b.  4  Sept.,  1686,  son  of 
Thomas  and  wile,  Mary;  had  children,  Thomas,  b.  29  Oct.,  1710; 
Mary,  1).  8  Mar.,  171.;;  Abigail,  b.  25  July,  1715;  Richard,  b.  2  Nov., 
[718;  James  b.  7  Nov.,  1721;  Sarah,  b.  12  Apr.,  1724;  Anna,  b. 
3  June,  1726,  and  Azariah,  b.  23  Mir.,  1728. 


RICHARD,     OF     BRAINTREE  121 

7th.  Abigail,  bapt.  20  Oct.,  1689,  in  Braintree;  mar.  6  Aug., 
1719,  Gregory  Belcher,  Jr.,  of  Braintree,  b.  19  June,  1691,  son  of 
Deacon  Gregory. 

7.  Sarah,  mar.  1  June,  1675,  Joseph  Crosby,  who  d.  26  Nov., 
1695;  had    children,   Sarah,  b.   29  Oct.,    1677;    Thomas  and   Simon, 

twins,  b.    16  Jan.,    1689;  Thomas,   mar.  Mary ,  and  had  Josiah, 

b.   20  Jan.,    1720;  Jonathan,  b.  9  Dec,   1722;  Thomas,  b.   23  Sept., 
1725;  John,  b.  25  Jan.,  1727. 

8.  Josiah,  bapt.  8  May,  1652,  in  Braintree;  mar.  4  Feb.,  1673, 
Elizabeth  Waldo,  dau.  of  Cornelius;  resided  in  Chelmsford,  Mass., 
where  he  d.  before  1690;  was  deacon  in  the  church  at  Chelmsford. 
Had  children,  Sarah  and  Elizabeth,  the  latter  b.  16  Feb.,  1678;  these 
daughters  of  Josiah  united  with  the  church  in  Roxbury,  in  1695. 


- 


DIVISION    NO.    1. 


JOHN   BRACKETT  OF  RYE   AND    HIS    DESCEND- 
ANTS. 


'  THIRD    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  II.     Descent:    Anthony,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  the  youngest  of  his  father's  family  and  the 
only  male  member  of  the  family  who  died  a  natural  death;  none  of 
his  name  lost  more  near  relatives  than  did  he.  There  is  frequent 
mention  of  him  in  the  records  of  the  town  of  Newcastle,  of  which  the 
greater  portion  of  Rye  was  a  part  to  about  1726,  principally  as  a 
petitioner  with  regard  to  town  and  parish  matters.  When  his  home 
was  attacked  by  the  Indians  in  September,  1691,  nearly  his  entire 
family  was  killed  or  taken  captive,  including  his  aged  parents. 
Nothing  particular  is  known  as  to  his  military  service  though  it  is 
probable  that  he  did  his  duty.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  so  little  is 
known  concerning  him.  Married  (1st)  Martha  Philbrick,  b.  Sep- 
tember 26,  1651,  daughter  of  John  (son  of  Thomas,  the  immigrant, 
and  wife,  Elizabeth)  and  wife  Ann  Palmer  of  Hampton.  John  Phil- 
brick  and  wife,  Ann,  parents  of  Martha,  were  lost  at  sea,  October  20, 
1657,  with  one  child  and  five  other  persons,  while  sailing  from  Hamp- 
ton to  Boston.  John  Brackett  married  (2nd)  November  24,  1698, 
Dinah  Marston,  widow  of  James  (d.  1693)  of  Hampton,  and  daugh- 
ter of  John  Sanborn.  Estate  administered  in  1726;  widow  survived 
him  several  years.      Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Abigail,  was  captured  by  the  Indians  28  Sept.,  1691,  and  car- 
ried to  Canada  where  she  married  a  Frenchman.  Upon  her  father's 
death  in  1727,  she  returned  to  New  Hampshire  and  claimed  her  share 
of  his  estate,  a  portion  of  which  was  land,  seven  acres.  Jonathan 
I, <uke  lived  on  it;  then  Richard  Dang  and  later  Samuel  H.  Tre- 
fethen.  One  of  the  Bracketts  made  several  verses  of  poetry  upon 
the  subject  of  the  return  of  the  Frenchwoman  and  her  claiming  her 
property.  In  list  of  taxpayers  of  Portsmouth,  year  1727,  appears  the 
name  "Frenchman  Brackett."  Nothing  further  is  known  concern- 
ing her;   probably  she  returned  to  Canada. 

2.  Ke/.iah,  was  captured  by  the  Indians  28  Sept.,  1691.  Among 
the  captives  redeemed  at  Quebec  in  1695  was  "Cisia  Brackett  of 
Oyster  river."  With  the  Indians  quite  every  person  captured  in 
New  Hampshire  belonged  to  Oyster  river  settlement  (New  Durham). 
No  further  record  concerning  her. 

•'!.     Samuel.     See  family  2. 

4.  Thomas.  With  Samuel  and  John  Brackett,  he  petitioned  in 
the  year  1721  for  a  new  church  district  in  the  town;  no  further 
record  concerning  him. 


JOHN,     OF     RYK  123 

FOURTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY     NO.     2. 

From  Family  No.  i.     Descent:     Anthony,  John,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  in  New  Castle,  near  where  resided  his 
grandfather;  was  administrator  of  his  father's  estate;  when  the  town 
of  Rye  was  created  (1721)  he  was  one  of  a  committee  to  settle  with 
the  old  town;  was  chosen  selectman  of  the  town;  married  January 

23,    1713,    Eydia ;  died    Oct.    25,    1766;  was    probably    nearly 

eighty  years  of  age  at   time   of  his  death.     Always  lived  in   Rye; 
estate  valued  at  ,£780,  si 7.     Issue,  all  born  in  New  Castle  (Rye): 

1.  John,  b.  8  Feb.,  1714;  never  married;  never  worked  on  farm  or 
went  to  school;  wrote  only  on  birch  bark.  Was  the  last  who  bore 
the  name  in  Rye. 

2.  Mary,  b.  27  May,  1716. 

3.  Phebe,  b.  7  Dec,  1718;   never  married;  d.  about  1796. 

4.  Samuel,  Jr.,  b.  13  Nov.,  1721.     See  family  3. 

5.  Ann,  b.  11  Jan.,  1725;   never  married. 

6.  Eove,  b.  18  Apr.,  1727;  mar.  3  Mar.,  1748,  Joseph  Knowles,  b. 
13  Dec,  1727. 


FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY     NO.     3. 
From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  John,  Samuel,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  November  13,  1 721,  in  Rye; 
inherited  his  father's  farm  and  lived  on  it  all  his  days;  the  farm  was 
the  one  settled  on  by  his  ancestor,  Anthony,  the  immigrant;  he  was 
the  last  of  the  name  to  own  it;  died  about  1769,  in  which  year  his 
estate  was  administered;  value  .£935-34-0;  married  Eleanor  Dow; 
she  married  (2nd)  %Stptember  8,  1770,  Jeremiah  Berry,  b.  in  1724. 
Issue,  one  child  only. 

1.  Love,  b.  9  Aug.,  1758;  d.  17  Jan.,  1795;  mar.  10  Nov.,  1774, 
William  Berry,  b.  12  Apr.,  1752-3,  son  of  Jeremiah  and  wife,  Hannah 
Eocke;  mar.  (2nd)  Elizabeth  Wendell,  by  whom  he  had  four  chil- 
dren.    Issue: 

1st.     Eydia,  b.  in  1775;  d.  20  June,  1820;  mar.  Wm.  Trefethen. 

2nd.     Samuel  Brackett,  b.  14  Apr.,  1777;  mar.  Abigail  Webster. 

3rd.     Hannah,  b.  25  Mar.,  1781;  mar.  Josiah  Marden. 

4th.     Jeremiah,  b.  1.6  Dec,  1783;  mar.  Sally  Foss. 

5th.  Eleanor,  b.  25  Apr.,  1786;  mar.  18  Feb.,  1808,  James 
Locke.     Issue: 

I.  William,  d.  1815.  II.  Adaline,  b.  10  June,  1813,  d.  13  Aug., 
1870;  mar.  Joel  N.  Foss.  III.  Elinor,  b.  in  1813.  IV.  James 
M.,  d.  in  1819.  V.  Martha  S.,  b.  5  Apr.,  1819;  d.  19  Nov.,  1890,  in 
Rye;  mar.  Aaron  E.  Riggs,  blacksmith;  no  children.  VI.  Ellen 
H.,  b.  22  Apr.,  1830;  mar.  25  Aug.,  1851,  Charles  F.  Eocke,  b.  25 
Aug.,  1826;  d.  25  Dec,  1895;  was  a  mason  in  Portsmouth. 

6th.  Eove,  b.  10  Nov.,  1788;  mar.  26  June,  1806,  Eben  Mar- 
den; d.  1876. 

7th.     William,  born  10  Nov.,  1790- 


124  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


DIVISION    NO.    2. 


COLONEL    THOMAS    BRACKETT    OF    BRISTOL 
AND    HIS    DESCENDANTS. 


SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 

From  Chapter  X.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Anthony,  An- 
thony, Thomas. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  born  in  Boston,  where  he  resided  until 
about  1774,  when  he  removed  to  Bristol,  Me.,  From  a  deed,  to 
which  he  was  a  party,  it  appears  that  he  was  still  a  resident  in  Bos- 
ton. April  1,  1774.  By  an  address,  sent  by  the  town  of  Bristol  to  the 
"Provincial  Congress,"  held  at  Watertown,  Mass.,  in  which  he  is 
called  the  "town's  attorney,"  his  residence  is  given  as  in  Bristol. 
When  a  young  man,  he  was  associated  with  a  fire  company  in  Bos- 
ton, serving  engine  No.  7,  and  later  was  transferred  to  engine  No.  2. 
In  1769,  William  Sutton  of  engine  No.  2,  "presented  Nicholas  Deer- 
ing,  as  a  suitable  person  for  his  engine  company,  in  lieu  of  Thomas 
Brackett  who  left  town."  In  1770,  he  was  "approved  as  a  taverner 
in  the  house  on  the  neck  (Boston),  called  the  King's  Arms,  formerly 
the  George  Tavern,  lately  kept  by  Mr.  Bowdine."  (Selectmen's 
minutes.) 

Rev.  Mr.  Adams  recorded  in  his  journal  — 

"Oct.  4,  1771.  Voted  that  the  perambulation  between  Roxbury 
and  this  town  be  on  Tuesday  at  10  o'clock  before  noon,  and  that  a 
letter  be  wrote  to  the  selectmen  as  usual  and  a  dinner  provided  by 
the  clerk  at  Mr.  Brackett's  on  the  neck." 

Colonel  Brackett  severed  his  connections  with  this  tavern  in 
1773.  In  that  year  his  name  appears  in  "alarm  list"  of  Captain 
John  Haskin's  company,  Col.  John  Erving's  regiment. 

Prior  to  making  Bristol  his  home,  viz.,  on  June  10,  1767,  he  pur- 
chased a  tract  of  about  thirty  acres  in  that  town  on  the  side  of  the 
Pemaquid  river,  on  which  was  situated  the  estate  of  his  wife's  father, 
James  Sproul,  who  settled  there  in  1729.  James  Sproul  was  born  in 
Ireland  probably  near  Belfast,  and  came  to  Boston  in  1727.  He  had 
eight  children,  of  whom  Margaret  was  married  to  Col.  Brackett 
about  1767-8.  Mr.  Sproul  was  a  helpless  invalid  for  several  years 
prior  to  his  death,  which  happened  before  the  close  of  the  eighteenth 
century.  His  lands  on  the  west  side  of  the  Pemaquid  river,  are  now 
in  the  possession  of  one  of  his  numerous  progeny,  Eugene  Sproul. 
Col.  Brackett's  homestead  was  on  the  east  side  of  the  Pemaquid. 
May  2,  1775,  but  shortly  after  his  arrival  in  Bristol,  at  a  town  meet- 
ing, it  was  voted  to  send  him  as  agent  for  the  town  "to  Congress  to 
represent  the  difficulty  of  the  town  for  the  want  of  ammunition' '  and 
"other  stores."  One,  Miles  Thompson,  was  hired  by  the  town  at 
$8.00  per  month  to  carry  on  Col.  Brackett's  farm  during  his  absence. 
By  his  efforts  one-half  barrel  of  gunpowder  was  secured,  which  he 


THOMAS,     OF     BRISTOL  125 

was  to  pay  for,  and  which  was  distributed  among  the  three  militia  com- 
panies of  the  town.  Also,  at  the  meeting  an  address  to  the  Provin- 
cial Congress  was  agreed  upon,  which  Col.  Brackett  probably  took 
with  him,  and  which  is  still  on  file  in  the  state  house  at  Boston.  He 
was  allowed  by  the  town  ^38  O.  T.  for  his  expenses. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  an  officer  in  the  Continental  army,  was 
captain  in  the  5th  (1st  Bristol)  company,  3d  Lincoln  county  regi- 
ment; commissioned  May  8,  1776;  also,  captain  of  the  5th  company, 
Col.  Joseph  North's  (Lincoln  county)  regiment.  By  his  descendants 
he  is  referred  to  as  Colonel  Thomas  Brackett.  He  was,  in  1787,  a 
member  of  the  board  of  selectmen;  was  accorded  the  rank  of  esquire 
and  gentleman,  which,  at  least,  signified  political  and  social  distinc- 
tion. During  a  partial  famine  in  Bristol,  he,  with  his  vessel,  went  to 
Boston  and  returned  with  a  cargo  of  grain  and  merchandise;  this  he 
sold  on  trust  to  the  people  in  need,  with  the  result  that  he  lost  heav- 
ily and  brought  upon  himself  financial  ruin.  In  December,  1784,  he 
made  an  assignment  for  the  benefit  of  his  creditors,  scattered  from 
Nova  Scotia  to  Massachusetts;  the  one  to  whom  his  largest  debt  was 
owing  was  John  Hancock, — he  of  the  famous  signature.  This  act 
was  purely  voluntary  on  his  part  and  attests  his  integrity,  as  does  his 
concern  for  his  famishing  townsmen  attest  his  benevolence.  Like  his 
father  in  Boston,  and  his  great-grandfather  in  Falmouth,  he  was  a 
slave  owner.  Among  his  slaves  was,  probably,  one  called  "Boston 
Brackett,"  descendants  of  whom  now  reside  in  Bristol.  A  Boston 
Brackett  (mulatto),  in  18S0,  lived  in  Bristol,  and  then  was  eighty 
years  old.  His  father  was  born  in  Massachusetts  and  his  mother  was 
born  in  Maine.  Mr.  Jeffrey  Richardson,  Jr.,  in  his  Genealogy  of  the 
Bracketts  mentions  a  ne.^ro  in  Boston,  called  "Boston."  It  is 
probable  that  Colonel  Brackett  was  his  owner  in  that  city.  The  story 
is  often  told  in  Bristol,  by  the  descendants  of  Colonel  Brackett,  that 
he,  his  son,  Thomas,  Jr.,  and  slave  went  aboard  the  father's  vessel 
lying  in  the  river,  and  while  the  father  was  engaged  at  some  work 
below  deck,  the  son  fell  overboard  and  was  rescued  by  this  slave, 
who  plunged  in  the  river  after  the  boy,  all  unknown  to  the  father 
until  the  lad  was  safe.  For  this  act  of  courage,  the  grateful  father 
ever  loved  the  negro  and  treated  him  as  one  of  the  family. 

The  following  incident  illustrates  the  public  spirit  of  this  enter- 
prising man.  In  September,  1775,  one  Andrew  Gilman,  having 
under  his  care  two  Indians,  who  were  to  appear  at  the  general  court 
of  the  province,  was  obliged  to  apply  to  the  committee  for  Bristol  for 
assistance,  to  convey  them  to  Watertown;  Gilman  received  the  nec- 
essary aid  in  money  from  Thomas  Brackett  and  Thomas  Boyd,  "two 
of  the  committee."  The  general  court  refused  to  pay  the  bill  and 
the  two  patriotic  citizens  of  Bristol  probably  never  received  the 
money  so  justly  due  them. 

Colonel  Brackett  died  May  7,  1788,  aged  46  years,  and  was 
buried  from  the  home  of  his  brother  Joshua,  at  Cromwell's  Head  inn, 
on  School  street  in  Boston.     Issue: 

1.  Thomas.     See  family  2. 

2.  Elizabeth,  mar.  9  Nov.,  1S01,  Jacob  Partridge. 

3.  Mary,  who  married  Michael  Jones. 

4.  Margaret    (Peggy),  who  mar.    2^    May,    1798,    Joseph    Reed, 
blacksmith,  of  Bristol. 


126  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.    i.     Descent:    Anthony,  Anthony,  Anthony,   An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas. 

Captain  Thomas  Brackett,  the  son  of  Colonel  Thomas  and  wife, 
Margaret  Sproul,  married  Polly  Giddings;  he  was  born  about  1769; 
died  July  21,  1833,  aged  64  years;  was  a  farmer  and  mariner,  always 
lived  in  Bristol,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Thomas.       See  family  3. 

2.  Charlotte. 

3.  Joshua.     See  family  4. 

4.  Joseph,  b.  29  Sept.,  1799;  never  mar.;  was  master  of  a  vessel 
at  the  age  of  21  years;  d.  before  he  reached  the  age  of  22  years,  either 
in  New  Orleans  or  Mobile. 

5.  Mary,  mar.  4  Apr.,  1824,  Rowland  Hatch. 

6.  William,  b.  about  1805.     See  family  5. 

7.  John.  b.  in  April,  1807.     See  family  6. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From  Family  No.   2.     Descent:    Anthony,   Anthony,   Anthony,  An- 
thony,  Thomas,  Thomas,  Thomas. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  born  about  1794,  in  Bristol,  Me.;  married 
in  18 1 7,  Mary  G.  Gadshall,  died  in  Lynn,  Mass.,  of  old  age,  was 
daughter  of  William  and  wife,  Dorcas  Mansfield.  Mr.  Brackett  died 
in  Charlestown,  Mass.,  in  1820.  from  dropsy  of  the  brain.  His  only 
child  —  living  in  1906  —  wrote  concerning  him:  "By  occupation  he 
was  a  ship-master,  was  called  the  best  navigator  in  Boston;  when  in 
port  he  taught  navigation  to  ship-masters.  I  have  heard  he  was  an 
extraordinary  good  navigator  and  an  exceptionally  intelligent  man." 
Issue: 

1.     Joseph,  b.  14  Feb.,  1819.     See  family  7. 

FAMILY    NO.    4. 

From  Family  No.   2.     Descent:    Anthony,   Anthony,    Anthony,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born  in  Bristol,  Me.;  married  Eliza  Sher- 
man of  Boston.  He,  with  another  from  Hingham,  Mass.,  was  captured 
by  pirates  and  marooned  on  Sandy  key,  one  of  the  West  India  islands. 
Captain  Albert  Brackett  of  New  Harbor,  Me.,  has  a  knife  which  was 
left  by  the  pirates  with  Joshua  Brackett;  its  blade  is  sixteen  inches 
in  length  and  one  and  three-quarter  inches  wide. 

His  children  were  Thomas  and  Joshua;  have  no  information 
concerning  them,  except  that  they  lived  in  Boston. 


THOMAS,     OF       BRISTOL  127 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.  2.      Descent:    Anthony,  Anthony,  Anthony,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  William. 
William  Braekett  was  born  about  1805  in  Bristol,  Me.,  where  he 
always  resided.     He  married  January  31,    1831,   Hannah  Bowly  or 
Bowlie.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Augusta,  b.  9  Apr.,  1832;  mar.  29  Nov.,  1850,  George 
W.  Hatch,  blacksmith,  b.  18  Feb.,  1826,  d.  1  July,  1865,  son  of 
James  and  wife  Nancy  Hall;  she  d.  28  Jan.,  1878,  in  Springfield, 
Mass.     Issue: 

1st.  Nellie,  b.  24  May,  1851,  in  Bristol;  mar.  14  Sept.,  1870, 
George  Edwin  Barr,  b.  12  Dec,  1850,  d.  1  Dec,  1891,  son  of  Edwin 
C,  and  wife  Adeline  F.  Stone  of  Springfield,  Mass.;  was  a  hotel 
keeper,  resided  in  Oldham  and  Springfield.     Issue: 

I.  Catherine  S.,  b.  in  Erie,  Pa.,  24  July,  1873;  mar.  17  May, 
1899,  Dr.  Henry  Everton  Hosley,  b.  in  Clinton,  Mass.,  10  Apr., 
1872,  son  of  Henry  Harrison  and  wife  Julia  Etta  Wheeler  of  Fitch- 
burg,  Mass.;  reside  at  283  Union  street,  Springfield. 

II.  William  Geo.  Barr,  b.  in  Springfield,  Mass.,  1  Oct.,  1874; 
is  a  mechanic 

III.  James  A.,  b.  in  Springfield,  14  Mar.,  1878;  business,  a 
baker. 

IV.  Gracie  A.,  b.  in  Springfield,  Mass.,  11  Apr.,  1879;  d.  in 
Springfield,  Mass.,  25  Aug.,  1879. 

V.  Madeline,  b.  7  May,  1883;  d.  in  Springfield,  29  Dec,  1888. 

VI.  Marvin  H.,  b.  8  Now/1884;   d.  24  Dec,  1888. 

2nd.  Wilbur  G.,  b.  in  Bristol,  Me.,  in  Sept.,  1856;  died  there 
24  Mar.,  1863. 

2.  Elizabeth  Ann,  b.  17  June,  1836;  mar.  in  Damariscotta,  Me., 
6  Aug.,  1857,  Edward  Barstow,  sea-captain,  b.  27  Jan.,  1833,  d.  4 
Nov.,  1898,  son  of  Edward  (son  of  Col.  John)  and  wife,  Amy  Bailey, 
of  Hanover,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Lizzie  Estelle,  b.  28  Feb.,  1863;  resides  in  Hanover,  Mass. 
2nd.     George  Ellen,  b.  3  July,  1867;  resides  in  Hanover,  Mass. 

3.  William  T.,  b.  6  Mar.,  1834.     See  family  8. 

4.  Albert  F.,  b.  2  Sept.,  1838.     See  family  9. 

5.  Francis  A.,  b.  29  Mar.,  1840.     See  family  10. 

6.  Robert.     See  family  11. 

7.  Nancy  Jane,  b.  in  1842;  mar.  Ambrose  Lewis;  is  dec. 

8.  Charlotte  H.,  mar.  (1st),  Woodbury;  (2nd),  George  H. 
Hanscome;   home  in  Denver. 

9.  Margaret  M.,  b.  about  1848;  mar.  George  H.  Davis;  home  in 
Springfield,  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From  Family  No.  3.     Descent:     Anthony,   Anthony,   Anthony,   An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  John. 

John  Braekett  was  born  in  April,  1807,  in  Bristol,  Me.;  married 
Thankful  Richards,  born  August  27,  1809,  living  in  1902,  daughter  of 
Benjamin  and  wife,  Joan  Woodbury,  of  Bristol.  Mr.  Braekett  died  in 
January,  1845,  three  months  prior  to  the  birth  of  his  son,  John  H.; 
his  grave  is  beside  that  of  his  father  on  the  farm  owned  by  the  latter. 


128  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

For  a  livelihood  he  followed  the  sea,  made  several  trips  to  the  Grand 
Banks.     Issue: 

1.  William,  b.  30  Mar.,  1830.     See  family  12. 

2.  Joseph  T.,  d.  13  Aug.,  1853. 

3.  Elbridge,  d.  20  Nov.,  1855. 

4.  Alex  H.,  b.  3  Nov.,  1837.     See  family  13. 

5.  Emeline,  b.  30  June,  1839;  mar.  8  Apr.,  1855,  Elbridge  Wal- 
lace, b.  30  Sept.,  1830,  son  of  Josiah  and  wife,  Sarah  Curtis,  of 
Bristol;  home  in  New  Harbor,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Gussie  S.,  b.   24  Feb.,  1856;  mar.  11  June,  1878,  Granville 
Burns.     Issue: 

I.  D.  Castner,  b.  12  Nov.,  1879.  II.  Mildred  E.,  b.  30 
July,  1 88 1.  III.  Flora  L.,  b.  4  Nov.,  1883.  IV.  M.  Gordon,  b. 
26  July,  1886. 

2nd.     Lizzie  H.,  b.  2  Feb.,  1858;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1877,  Capt.  Chas. 
Blaisdell;  had  Granville,  b.  30  Apr.,  1879. 

3d.     John  J.,  b.  23  Sept.,  i860;   mar.  in  1885,  Abbie  I.  McClain, 
had  Lillian,  b.  14  Mar.,  1886. 

4th.     Sidney  E.,   b.   19    Dec.,    1861;  mar.  in  Nov.,    1885,   Flora 
Thompson. 

5th.     Elzina  M.,  b.  25  Sept.,  1863;   mar.  25  Dec,  1881,  John  P. 
Munro;  d.  3  Apr.,  1890.     Issue: 

I.     Jennie,  b.  28  Nov.,  1883.     II.     Annie,    b.  18  Mar.,    1885. 
6th.     Emma  L.,  b.  16  Mar.,    1867;  mar.  5  Mar.,  1S83,   Lincoln 
J.  Partridge.     Issue: 

I.  Sadie,  b.  16  Sept.,  1884.  II.  James  W.,  b.  14  Aug., 
1888.  III.  Elzina  M.,  b.  24  May,  1891.  IV.  Wallace  J.,  b.  30 
Aug.,  1899.     V.     Dorris  L-,  b.  14  June,  1901. 

7th.     George  P.,   b.  27  Sept.,    1873;    mar.   15  Jan,  1892,   Laura 
Poole;  had  Erville,  b.  30  May,  1894. 
<i.      Sylvinia,  d.  30  June,  1844. 
7.     John  Harvey,   d.  25  May,  1847. 

NINTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY  NO.  7. 
From  Family  No.  3.  Descent:  Anthony-,  Anthonys  Anthony,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  Thomas,  Joseph. 
Joseph  Brackett  was  born  Februarys  14,  1819;  married  (1st)  Mary 
Jane  Hobart;  (2nd)  Margaret  Porter,  who  died  Feb.  18,  1884;  (3d) 
Sarah  L.  Calby;  Mr.  Brackett  is  living  (1906)  with  his  daughter, 
Mrs.  Newth  in  Lynn,  Mass.;  is  afflicted  with  locomotor  ataxia.     Issue: 

1.  Eben  T.,  b.  23  Feb.,  1846.     See  family  14. 

2.  Mary  Hobart,  b.  9  Sept.,  1873,  in  Warren,  N.  H.;  mar.  2  July, 
1892,  Charles  H.  Newth,  b.  20  Sept.,  1869.  son  of  James  T.  and  wife, 
Mary  Ann  McWilliams;  James  T.  was  born  in  England;  went  to 
Nova  Scotia  where  he  was  married,  and  in  1878,  removed  to  Lymn. 
Mr.  Chas.  H.  also  lives  in  Lynn;  is  engaged  in  the  shoe  business. 
Issue: 

1st.  Walter  Hobart,  b.  8  Feb.,  1893. 
2nd.  Frank  Forrest,  b.  9  Oct.,  1895. 
3d.     Alice  Marian,  b.  17  Sept.,  1898. 

3.  Marian,  married  Worthley;  home  in  Cambridge. 


THOMAS,     OF     BRISTOL  129 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Anthony,   Anthony,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  William,  William  T. 

William  Thomas  Brackett  was  born  in  New  Harbor,  Maine, 
March  6,  1834;  married  December  6,  1857,  Esther  E.  Palmer,  born 
October  18,  1839,  daughter  of  Nathaniel  and  wife,  Catherine  Mink, 
of  Bremen,  Me;  resides  in  New  Harbor,  Me.;   is  a  fisherman.     Issue: 

1.  William  F.,  b.   3  Dec,  1858;  mar.  25  Sept.,    1881,  Douisaetta 
Blaisdell;  he  d.  11  July,  1900. 

2.  Arthur  B.,  b.  2  Oct.,  i860;  resides  in  New  Harbor,  Me. 

3.  Lizzie  I.,  b.  14  Jan.,  1862;  mar.  Frederick  Kayton. 

4.  Edna  F.,  b.  20  Oct..  1865;  mar.  4  Mar.,  1883,  Frank  Richard- 
son; she  d.  25  Aug.,  1891. 

5.  Louretta,  b.  twin  with  Edna  F.;  d.  21  Oct.,  1866. 

6.  Edith  M.,  b.  13  Sept.,  1867;  mar.  Louis  Gammage. 

7.  Thomas  N.,  b.  2  Oct.,  1871;   mar.  May  McFarland. 

8.  Melvin  A.,  b.  29  Aug.,  1874;  mar.  Lola  McFarland. 

9.  Susie  May,  b.  13  July,  1877;   d.  14  Jan.,  1877. 

10.  Elmer  A.,  b.  29  Nov.,  1880. 

11.  Fred  L-,  b.  20  Aug.,  1884.     All  were  born  in  New  Harbor, 
Me. 


FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.   5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Anthony,  Anthony,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  William,  Albert  F. 

Albert  Franklin  Brackett  was  born  September  2,  1838;  mar- 
ried May  4,  1862,  Elnora  S.  Davis,  born  October  2,  1842;  daughter 
of  George  W.  and  wife,  Catherine  Starling,  of  Monhegan  island,  Me.; 
resides  in  New  Harbor,  Me.;  is  a  fisherman.     Issue: 

1.  Edward  F.,  b.  12  Oct.,  1862:   mar.  Ethel  Russell. 

2.  Flora  B.,  b.  10  Apr.,  1868;  d.  22  Nov.,  1880. 

3.  George  F.,  b.  10  Oct.,  1870;   mar.   Katie  E.   Davis;  resides  on 
Monhegan  island. 

4.  Ernest  A.,  b.  21  July,  1874;  mar.  Nellie  S.  Hanna. 

5.  Katie  Belle,  b.  27  Apr.,  1885. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family  No.   5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Anthony,  Anthony,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  William,  Francis  A. 

Francis  A.  Brackett  was  born  March  29,  1840;  married  Decem- 
ber 22,  1865,  Carrie  L.  Stevens,  born  June  20,  1848,  daughter  of 
Sylvanus  and  wife,  Clara  Bates,  of  New  Haven,  Conn.;  resides  in 
New  Harbor,  Me.;  is  a  blacksmith;  served  as  a  private  in  co.  E., 
20th  Maine  volunteers  infantry,  from  August  29,  1862  to  July  16, 
1865.     Issue: 

1.  Clara  F.,  b.  2  Nov.,  1866;   mar.  1  Jan.,  1891,  A.  H.  Dole. 

2.  Clarence    A.,    b.    30    Oct.,    1873;    mar.    25    Dec,    1898,    Julia 
Gifford. 

3.  Inez  May,  b.  14  May,  1876;  mar.  John  Day. 


130  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

Prom  Family,  No.  5.     Descent:     Anthony,   Anthony,  Anthony,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  William,  Robert. 
Robert  Brackett  was  born  about  1838;  is  a  fisherman,  a  resident 
of    New  Harbor,   Me.     Married    Louisa  H.  Van  Horn,  born  about 
[849.      Issue: 

1.  Elzina,  b.  about  1867. 

2.  Ambrose  A.,  b.  about  1869. 
,3.     Jerome,  b.  about  1872. 

4.  Wilbur  G.,  b.  about  1873. 

5.  De  Forrest,  b.  about  1875. 
(I.     George  W. 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  No   10.     Descent:     Anthony,  Anthony,  Anthony,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  John,  William. 

William  Brackett  was  born  in  Bristol,  Me.,  March  30,  1830;  mar- 
ried Dec.  30,  1850,  Narcissa  S.  Churchill,  born  February  5,  1828; 
died  July  27,  1900,  daughter  of  Ezra  of  Montville,  Me.;  resides  in 
New  Harbor;  is  a  sailor.     Issue: 

1.  Phoebe  T.,  b.  15  Mar.,  1851;  mar.  18  Oct.,  1878,  Samuel 
Hastings,  teamster,  b.  22  Sept.,  1853,  son  of  William  and  wife, 
Nancy  Murray,  of  Bristol,  Me.;  resides  at  53  Addison  St.,  Chelsea, 
Mass.      Issue: 

1st.     Donald  Murray,  b.  1  Feb.,  1880. 
2nd.     Lottie  Belle,  b.  14  May,  1887. 

2.  Nellie  M.,  b.  30  Nov.,  1853;  mar.  30  Nov.,  1873,  George  E. 
Little,  b.  11  Mar.,  1851,  son  of  James  and  wife,  Mary  A.  Hutchins, 
of  Bristol,  Me.;  resides  in  New  Harbor,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.  Dilmar  B.,  b.  26  Oct.,  1874;  mar.  in  Nov.  1896,  Edith 
Davis.      Issue: 

I.     Ava  Estelle,  b.  26  Oct.,  1897.     II.     Bertrell.     III.     Daura. 
2nd.     Zilpha  B.,  b.  2  July,  1876;  mar.  10  Apr.,  1895,  Warren  M. 
Munsey.     Issue: 

I.     Donald  W.,  b.    18  Mar.,    1896.     II.     George  Keith,  b.  13 
Sept.,    [897. 

3d.     George  Virgil,  b.  14  Oct.,  1888. 
1th.     Glenn  M.,  b.  12  Nov.,  1894. 

3.  Joseph  W.,  b.  2  Feb.,  1856;  mar.  22  Sept.,  1878,  Faustina 
McClain;  has  son  Oscar. 

4.  Emma  F.,  b.  19  Mar.,  1858;  mar.  13  Nov.,  1882,  Joseph  H. 
Russell;  residence  New  Harbor,  Me. 

5.  Orrington  A.,  b.  26  Jan.,  i860;  mar.  6  Nov.,  1882,  Delia  M. 
Russell;   residence  New  Harbor,  Me. 

6.  Ida  13.,  b.  13  Aug.,  1863;  mar.  20  Aug.,  1900,  Thomas  Murray. 

7.  Loring  L.,  b.  4  May,  1865;  d.  20  Apr.,  1873. 

8.  Lottie,  b.  2  Apr.,  1868,  in  Bristol,  Me.;  mar.  11  Oct.,  1893, 
Samuel  B.  Smith,  b.  27  Aug.,  1868,  son  of  Charles  E.  and  wife,  Ara- 
bella Dow,  of  Exeter,  N.  H.;  is  a  traveling  salesman — furnaces  and 
ranges;  home  in  Newton  Center,  Mass.,  formerly  lived  in  Exeter. 
Issue: 


THOMAS,     OF      BRISTOL  131 

1st.     Earl  Brackett,  b.  n  July,  1894. 
2nd.     Carlton  Brooks,  b.  19  Feb.,  1898. 

9.  Oscar  M.,  b.  25  Dec,  1870;  d.  27  Apr.,  1873. 

10.  Oscar  L.,  b.  12  Apr.,  1873.  All  reside  in  New  Harbor,  ex- 
cept as  otherwise  noted. 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From  Family  No.   6.     Descent:     Anthony,  Anthony,  Anthony,   An- 
thony, Thomas,  Thomas,  John,  Alex  H. 

Alex  H.  Brackett  was  born  November  3,  1837;  married  August 
31,  1863,  Sarah  J.  McLain,  born  December  24,  1844;  daughter  of 
William  G.  and  wife,  Lettie  Janet  Meservey,  of  Bristol,  Me.;  resides 
in  New  Harbor;  he  is  a  merchant,  and  prior  to  1881,  was  postmaster 
for  several  years.     Issue: 

1.  John  H.,  b.,  31  Mar.,  1864;  d.  12  Oct.,  1S65. 

2.  Ada  M.,  b.  21  July,  1865;  mar.  Fred  A.  Partridge;  resides  at 
Pemaquid  Beach,  Me. 

3.  John  W.,  b.  27  Aug.,  1867;  mar.  21  July,  1896,  Martha  M. 
Tibbetts,  b.  21  Mar.,  1872,  dau.  of  Charles  T.  and  wife,  Lizzie  S. 
McFarland,  of  Bristol.  Me.;  is  a  lawyer;  was  town  auditor  for  three 
years;  supervisior  of  schools  for  a  short  term,  resigning  to  accept  po- 
sition as  teacher  (in  Bristol);  and  county  attorney  for  a  term;  now 
resides  in  Boothbay,  Maine.     Issue: 

1st.     Gail  M.,  b.  27  Jan.,  1898. 

4.  Leona  C,  b.  6  June,  1869;  d.  6  June,  1872. 

5.  Infant  son,  b.  29  Mar.,  1872;  d.  12  Apr.,  1872. 

6.  Leona  E.,  b.  4  July.  1873;  married  Erville  B.  Hanna. 


TENTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  7.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Anthony, 
Anthony,  Thomas,  Thomas,  Thomas,  Joseph,  Eben  T. 
Eben  Thorndike  Brackett  was  born  February  23,  1846,  in 
Charlestowm,  Mass;  for  a  time  lived  in  Swampscott;  resides  in  Lynn, 
Mass.;  deputy  sheriff  in  1904-5.  Served  as  private  in  nth  unat- 
tached company  from  April,  1865;  private  in  company  I,  8th  regi- 
ment Mass.  militia;  2nd  lieutenant,  April  24th,  1882;  captain,  April 
17,  1883;  lieutenant-colonel  of  8th  Mass.  militia  infantry,  October  8, 
1893;  placed  on  retired  list  August  6,  1895.  Married  January  14, 
1869,  Emily  Davis  Frederick,  born  October  23,  1849,  daughter  of 
John  and  wife,  Asenath  Howe  of  Paxton,  111.     Issue: 

1.  Eben  T.,  b.  30  Aug.,  1870;  mar.  in  1893,  Mabel  Sisson;  re- 
sides in  Lynn,  Mass.;  served  in  co.  I.,  8th  inf.,  Mass.  militia. 
Issue: 

1st.     Raymond  T.,  b.  9  Feb.,  1894. 
2nd.     Florence  R.,  b.  18  Dec,  1896. 
3d.     John  F.,  b.  9  Apr.,  1899. 

2.  James  F.,  b.  Sept.  9,  1871;  mar.  7  June,  1899,  Alice  P.  Fay; 
resides  in  Arlington,  Mass.;  hospt.  stew,  in  8th  inf.,  Mass.  militia. 
Issue: 


132  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.     Fay,  (dan.)  b.  14  Aug.,  1900. 

3.  George  W.,  b.  23  Oct.,  1873;  d.  9  Nov.,  1891. 

4.  Mabel  Iv.,  b.  24  Feb., ;  mar.  24  June,  1896,  Ralph  L,.  Nov- 
ell;  home  in  Ouincy,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Frederick  Harris,  b.  1  Aug.,  1904. 

5.  Olive  Edna,  b.  9  June,  1880;  mar.    19  July,  1899,   Halvor  H. 
Ilalvorson;  home  in  Lynn,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Paul  Brackett,  b.  4  May,  1900. 

6.  K.  Josephine,  b.  19  Nov.,  1885. 

7.  Bernice  G.,  b.  6  July,  1891;  d.  28  June,  1892. 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  133 


DIVISION   NO.   3. 


ABRAHAM    BRACKETT    OF    FALMOUTH    AND 
HIS    DESCENDANTS. 

FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    1. 

From  Chapter  6.     Descent:     Anthony,   Anthony,    Zachariah,    Abra- 
ham. 

Abraham  Braekett  was  born  in  Hampton,  New  Hampshire,  July 
3,  1 7 14.  There  are  published  statements  that  all  of  the  children  of 
Zachariah  Braekett,  younger  than  Abraham,  were  born  in  Falmouth. 
There  is  nothing  to  warrant  these  statements  more  than  that  in  the 
year  1715,  Zachariah  went  to  Falmouth  and  took  possession  of  his 
father's  farm.  Whatever  the  truth  may  be  as  to  the  place  of  birth  of 
the  children  younger  than  Abraham,  the  following  particulars  are 
submitted  as  relative  thereto.  At  Hampton  on  August  21,  17 19, 
were  baptized  the  six  elder  children  of  Zachariah.  In  1806,  Abraham 
Braekett  testified  that  he  came  to  Falmouth  to  live  in  1718,  "and  was 
then  four  years  old."  The  other  children  of  Zachariah,  except 
.Susannah,  were  baptized  in  Falmouth  though  when  they  were  born 
there  was  no  church  in  the  town.  These  facts  indicate,  assuming 
that  Abraham  was  mistaken  as  to  the  year  in  which  he  went  to  Fal- 
mouth to  live,  that  the  family  of  Zachariah  did  not  remove  to 
Falmouth  before  the  year  17 19.  In  the  affidavit  referred  to,  which 
was  made  as  evidence  relative  to  a  mill  privilege,  Abraham  fixes  a 
matter  of  moment  in  the  proceedings  in  which  he  was  testifying,  by 
the  time  when  he  "became  free"  viz.,  in  1735.  That  year  was  the 
one  in  which  he  attained  his  majority.  It  suggests  that  he  had  been 
apprenticed — at  what  trade  is  not  known.  Nor  is  there  anything  to 
show  that  he  was  engaged  at  farming;  there  were  but  few  living  on 
the  Neck  who  followed  farming  in  his  day.  No  mention  of  him  is 
contained  in  any  source  of  information,  now  extant,  for  many  years 
subsequently  to  1745;  nor  is  there  mention  of  the  name  of  any  mem- 
ber of  his  family  contained  in  any  printed  document  of  a  genealogical 
character  relative  to  the  people  living  in  Falmouth.  It  does  not 
appear  that  he  was  a  member  of  any  military  organization  in  Fal- 
mouth during  the  French  and  Indian  wars.  The  first  mention  of  him 
subsequently  to  1745  is  that  in  1777  he  was  a  taxpayer  in  Falmouth. 
The  belief  would  be  warranted  that,  for  several  years  following  his 
marriage,  he  resided  elsewhere  than  in  Falmouth,  but  for  his  own 
statement.  In  his  affidavit  made  in  1806,  he  testified  relative  to  the 
possession  of  a  certain  ten-acre  lot  near  to  Captain  Anthony  Brackett's 
farm  on  which  he  was  raised;  that  the  land  in  question  was  occupied 
by  William  Knight,  and  fixed  the  time  of  Knight's  occupancy  thereof  to 
have  been  "soon  after  the  three  years'  war,  about  1725-6,"  when  he 
lived  on  Brackett's  farm  at  Back  cove;  that  Knight  held  possession 
of  said  ten  acres  until  one  Coy  came  and  lived  in  the  house  thereon, 


134  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

who  lived  in  it  "about  six  or  ten  years"  and  sold  it  to  his  brothers, 
John  Baker  (who  married  Abraham's  sister,  Susannah)  and  Zacha- 
riah  Brackett,  and  they  "exchanged  it  with  Stephen  Jones;"  that  his 
brother  Baker  lived  in  the  house  "and  his  son  Josiah  (bapt.  1741) 
was  born  there;"  that  Jones  held  it  until  one,  Ross  (probably  John), 
"then  first  arrived  from  Scotland  came  and  occupied  the  same;"  that 
his  age  .it  time  of  making  the  affidavit  was  ninety-two  years. 

The  aged  witness  might  well  remember  the  fact  he  relates  as  to 
Ross,  as  it  probably  was  Ross'  daughter,  Mary,  who  was  his  father's 
s<  ond  \  ife  and  was  so  good  a  hand  at  making  trouble  in  the  family. 
Dr.  Brackett  of  I,ee,  said  she  was  an  Irish  woman;  she  was  perhaps 
Scotch- Irish. 

It  is  certain  that  he  lived  in  Falmouth  continuously  from  1719  to 
1745:  King  George's  war  commenced  in  1744,  and  it  is  ventured  that 
he  did  not  fail  to  do  his  duty  to  his  country  in  this  war  with  the 
French  and  Indians,  nor  in  the  war  beginning  in  1757.  When  a  boy, 
in  174s.  he  witnessed  the  imposing  proceedings  on  the  part  of  the 
colonial  official  in  negotiating  the  treaty  of  peace  of  that  year  with 
the  Indian  sagamores  at  Falmouth;  once  more  he  could  stir  without 
fear  outside  of  the  confines  of  a  garrison  house.  Then  in  1732,  he  saw 
the  Indians  come  boldly  to  Falmouth  flaunting  a  French  flag  at  the 
head  of  their  column,  to  confirm  the  treaty  anew.  He  lived  to  see 
the  day  when  he  hailed  with  joy  the  sight  of  a  French  flag. 

He  married  (intention  published  December  13,  1743)  Joanna 
Springer;  she  hailed  from  Georgetown,  Me.,  was  the  daughter  of  James 
Springer  who  died  there  intestate  about  the  year  1772.  In  the  year 
1 74s,  Abraham  and  his  wife  united  with  the  church  in  Falmouth, 
were  admitted  to  full  communion.  During  the  preceding  year  their 
oldest  daughter,  Hannah,  was  born;  she  was  baptized  in  Falmouth. 
They  had  fifteen  other  children  of  whose  baptisms  no  record  has  been 
found.  The  wife  died  before  May  1,  1782,  on  which  date  an  order 
was  made  in  the  administration  of  her  father's  estate  assigning  their 
respective  shares  to  his  children,  in  which  she  is  mentioned  as 
deceased.  The  absence  of  all  baptismal,  church,  town  and  military 
records  pertaining  to  Abraham  Brackett  or  to  any  member  of  his  fam- 
ily, from  1745  to  1777,  is  strongly  indicative  that  during  all  his  mar- 
ried life  Abraham  Brackett  did  not  dwell  in  Falmouth.  Perhaps 
upon  the  death  of  his  wife,  Abraham  returned  to  Falmouth;  the  cen- 
suses of  1790  and  1800  show  him  a  resident  of  the  town  and  a  mem- 
ber of  the  family  of  Abraham,  Jr. 

For  many  years  prior  to  1800,  there  was  a  military  road  running 
from  Falmouth  to  fort  Halifax  at  the  junction  of  the  Sebasticook  and 
Kennebec  rivers.  About  year  1803,  he  accompanied  his  son  Abra- 
ham, who  that  year  removed  from  Falmouth  to  Sidney,  one  of  the 
tow  ns  not  far  from  the  site  of  fort  Halifax.  It  was  while  living  in 
Sidney  in  May,  1806,  that  he  signed  the  affidavit,  to  which  reference 
has  been  made.  He  died  August  16,  1806,  at  the  age  of  ninety-two 
years. 

The  names  and  dates  of  births  of  his  children  are  given  on  very 
good  genealogical  authority,  that  of  a  family  record  of  the  same.  The 
original  may  be  extant;  the  copies  which  have  been  inspected  contain 
the  names  of  fifteen  children.  The  child  Mary  is  given  on  the  auth- 
ority of  the  record  of  the  order  assigning  the  estate  of  James  Springer, 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  135 

grandfather  of  the  children;  at  the  time  the  order  was  made,  his 
daughter,  the  mother  of  the  children,  was  dead,  hence  her  share  of 
his  estate  was  assigned  to  them;  in  this  order,  as  one  of  the  children 
and  with  the  names  of  the  other  children,  is  mentioned  Mary  Hodg- 
kins,  all  of  the  children  being  mentioned  in  the  order,  except  those 
who  died  young.     Issue: 

1.  Hannah,  b.  4  Sept.,  1744;   married  James  Springer. 

2.  Mary,  who  married  Hodgkins. 

3.  Abigail,  b.  7  Feb.,  1747;  died  young. 

,4.     Susannah,  b.  7  Oct.,  1748;   married  James  Jewell. 

5.  Eunice,  b.  20  Dec,  1750;   married  Simeon  Paine. 

6.  Elizabeth,  b.  4  Mar.,  1752;  married  George  Andrews. 

7.  Abraham,  b.  8  Aug.,  1753;   died  young. 

8.  Joanna,  b.  19  Mar.,  1755;  died  young. 

9.  Nathaniel,  b.  4  Sept.,  1756;  resided  in  Georgetown;  was  living 
in  1782;  was  private  in  Captain  Jonathan  Nowell's  company,  Colone'. 
James  Scammon's  regiment;  muster  roll  dated  1  Aug.,  1775;  enlisted 
3  May,  1775,  served  three  months  and  six  days;  received  order  for 
bounty  coat  or  its  equivalent  in  money,  date  Cambridge,  6  Nov., 
1775.     No  further  record. 

10.  Joanna,  b.  4  Sept.,  1760;   mar.  Philip  Norcross. 

11.  Abigail,  b.  2  Apr.,  1762;  probably  deceased  before  1782. 

12.  James,  b.  5  May,  1764.     See  family  2. 

13.  Abraham,  b.  26  Aug.,  1765.      See  family  3. 

14.  Sarah,  b.  7  Mar.,  1767;  she  was  the  family  historian;  learned 
from  her  father  the  family  traditions  and  faithfully  preserved  them; 
married  Elias  Field;  resided  in  Phillips,  Me.;  died  19  Nov.,  1838. 
No  issue. 

15.  Anthony,  b.  30  Mar.,  1769.      See  family  4. 

16.  Samuel,  b.  5  Nov.,  1770.     See  family  5. 


SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From     Family    No.     1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  May  5,  1764;  he  was  in  the  twelfth 
year  of  his  age  the  first  year  of  the  War  of  the  Revolution;  had  hardly 
completed  his  eleventh  year  when  was  fought  the  battle  of  Lexington. 
On  becoming  fourteen  years  old,  parental  authority  could  no  longer 
restrain  his  ardent  patriotism;  he  ran  away  from  home  and  became -a 
privateer.  After  some  months  of  service  of  varying  success  and  fail- 
ure, the  little  vessel  on  which  he  served  was  disabled  in  battle,  and 
the  crew  barely  escaped  with  their  lives  to  the  nearest  shore,  then 
within  the  British  lines;  secreting  themselves  by  day  and  foraging  by 
night  they  finally  made  their  escape.  In  after  years,  during  the  war, 
and  while  a  soldier,  when  men  were  detailed  from  his  company  toN 
man  a  sloop  of  war,  those  fitted  for  such  service  were  selected;  they 
were  men  who  could  serve  a  double  part  at  war,  fight  equally  as  well 
on  the  sea  as  on  the  land;  among  the  number  thus  selected  was 
James   Brackett.     When   making  his  claim  for  pension,   over  forty 


136  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

years  later,  he  did  not  mention  his  naval  service  aboard  the  privateer. 
Not  that  he  had  forgotten  it,  for  his  children  knew,  and  his  grand- 
children know,  the  story  of  the  cruise  of  the  ill-fated  little  vessel,  from 
his  relating  it.  Probably  it  was  that  the  adventure  was  not  pursuant 
to  any  contract  with  the  government,  continental  or  state,  for  service, 
and  hard  service  as  it  was,  it  would  not  entitle  him  to  pension.  But 
pension  was  not  his  object  in  those  days;  hence  sendee,  such  as  a 
recruiting  officer  would  not  be  required  to  pass  upon  his  ability  to 
perform,  or  other  officer  inquire  as  to  whether  he  had  his  parents' 
consent  to  enter  into,  suited  his  case  exactly,  and  this  service  he 
engaged  in,  and  in  his  old  days,  delighted  to  relate  about.  In  1832, 
he  applied  for  pension;  set  forth  that  he  was  then  sixty-eight  years 
old,  a  resident  of  Berlin,  Me;  that  he  served  in  Captain  Solomon 
Walker's  company.  Colonel  Prime's  regiment;  enlisted  in  April  1780, 
for  eight  months.  Relative  to  this  term  of  sendee  the  records  of  the 
War  Department  show  that  "James  Bracket"  was  a  private  in 
Captain  Solomon  Walker's  company,  Colonel  Joseph  Prime's  regi- 
ment; under  command  of  General  Wadsworth;  enlisted  April  30, 
[780,  discharged  December  26,  1780,  sen-ed  "7  months  and  27  days 
at  Eastward." 

He  further  stated  that  he  again  enlisted  in  April  1781,  for  nine 
mouths  in  Captain  Benjamin  Lemont's  company.  Samuel  McCobb's 
regiment;  was  discharged  January  2,  1782,  at  Bath,  Me.;  that  part  of 
the  time  he  was  on  board  of  the  sloop  of  war  "Defense." 

Relative  to  said  term  of  sendee,  the  records  in  the  War  Depart- 
ment show  that  "James  Bracket"  was  a  private  in  Captain  Benjamin 
Lemont's  company,  Colonel  McCobb's  regiment;  enlisted  May  10, 
[781,  discharged  Dec.  1,  1.781,  ".sen-ed  6  month  and  20  days  near 
Penobscot  river;"  that  on  board  of  marine  sloop,  "Defense,"  com- 
manded by  Captain  James  Nivens,  he  served  one  month  and  twenty- 
four  days,  "was  engaged  2  Aug.,  1781,  discharged  26  Sept.,  1781." 

Also  published  records  show  that  he  gave  receipt  dated  "Cox- 
head  8  June  1 781,"  to  Captain  Benj.  Lemout,  for  musket,  etc. 

Abraham  Brackett  of  Sidney,  Kennebec  county,  Maine,  testified 
under  date  of  September  20,  1832,  that —  "I  well  recollect  that  my 
brother  James,  within  named,  enlisted  and  went  into  the  sendee  at 
both  the  times  by  him  mentioned." 

The  claim  was  allowed  and  he  was  paid  pension  to  the  date  of 
his  death. 

For  several  years  after  the  close  of  the  war  he  followed  the  sea; 
later  he  became  a  shipper  and  horse  dealer;  bought  horses,  shipped 
them  from  New  Orleans  to  the  West  Indies  and  other  places,  and 
once  lost  a  cargo  of  horses  by  a  storm  on  the  Gulf  of  Mexico.  Shortly 
before  his  marriage,  he  had  ceased  his  wandering  and  adventurous 
life;  he  settled  in  Sidney,  Me.,  where  he  became  engaged  in  the  man- 
ufacture and  sale  of  lumber.  Here  he  prospered  for  several  years,  was 
on  the  road  to  wealth,  when,  at  a  time  he  had  reached  the  age  of  fifty 
years,  and  had  a  family  of  eight  children,  in  one  night  all  he  had, 
mills  and  lumber,  were  swept  away  by  a  flood.  With  property  gone 
and  indebtedness  of  his  own  to  meet,  his  hard  lot  was  made  still  hard- 
er by  an  obligation  he  had  entered  into  by  a  pledge  of  his  credit 
for  the  accommodation  of  another  who  lost  his  all  by  the  same  flood. 
This  disaster  came  upon  him  when  he  was  well  advanced  in  years, 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  137 

when  his  prospects  were  the  brightest,  and  when  he  could  reasonably 
look  forward  to  a  life  of  ease  and  pleasure.  A  few  years  were  spent 
in  Sidney  in  adjusting  his  affairs  and  then  he  went  to  the  wilds  of 
Oxford  county  to  begin  life  anew  in  a  business  way  on  a  farm.  De- 
termination of  purpose  overcomes  obstacles.  Land  was  purchased, 
cleared,  tilled  to  an  advantage,  and  from  the  profits  of  this  farm  the 
last  of  his  debts  were  paid.  It  is  gratifying  to  record  that  this  was 
accomplished,  with  the  pleasures  of  life  which  are  the  lot  of  a  pros- 
perous farmer. 

A  personal  description  of  him  is,  that  he  was  about  five  feet,  ten 
inches  in  height,  had  a  clean  cut  face,  a  sharp  nose  and  was  easy  and 
quick  in  his  movements.  Also  was,  at  times,  given  to  making  decid- 
edly pointed  and  pithy  remarks. 

His  farm  in  Oxford  county  was  in  the  town  called  at  the  time  he 
settled  there,  Berlin,  subsequently  Phillips,  in  that  part  which  is 
West  Phillips;  it  is  now  owned  (1906)  by  his  grandson  William 
Erackett.  On  the  farm  is  an  orchard  which  he  planted  and  in  which 
he  took  great  pride.  On  this  farm  he  settled  about  1S19,  and  passed 
the  remainder  of  his  days.  He  died  March  22,  1S45.  One  of  his 
neighbors  was  his  sister  Sarah,  who  married  Silas  Field.  The  graves 
of  the  four,  of  himself,  his  wife,  his  sister  Sarah,  and  her  husband, 
are  in  the  little  graveyard  in  the  Levi  Field  place;  there,  side  by  side, 
rest  their  remains. 

He  married  January  31,  1 79.S.  Mary  Lunt.  Of  her,  Rev.  Dr. 
Nathan  Brackett  of  Harper's  Ferry,  W.  Y.,  wrote — "If  grandmother 
now  and  then  smoked  a  long-stemmed,  clean  clay  pipe,  she  did  it 
with  such  exquisite  neatness  that  none  of  her  many  granddaughters 
would  have  blushed  to  have  seen  her.  Nobody  could  bind  a  stone- 
bruised  bare  foot  or  a  whittled  finger  quite  as  nicely  as  grandmother. 
I  wish  I  had  one  of  those  pretty  lace  caps  she  used  to  wear,  or,  better 
still,  a  real  picture  of  her  at  spinning  flax  on  a  little  wheel,  as  I  can 
now  see  her." 

She  was  born  May  19,  1779,  died  July  8,  1849,  was  daughter  of 
Benjamin  Lunt.  He  was  born  August  15,  1747,  died  in  January, 
1822,  married  January  7.  176s,  Mercy  Brackett;  was  son  of  James. 
He  was  son  of  the  2d  Henry,  who  was  born  June  23,  1698,  in  New- 
berry, Mass.,  and  wile  Hannah,  daughter  of  Joseph  Noyes.  Mercy 
Brackett  was  daughter  of  Joshua  and  wife  Esther  Cox  (see  div.  7, 
fam.  1 ).      Issue: 

1.  Eunice,  b.  1  Aug.,  1798:  mar.  William  Butler;   no  issue. 

2.  Hannah,  b.   25  Jan.,    1800;   mar.  29    Dec,    1827,  Joseph  Hoar. 
Issue. 

1st.  Eunice  Butler,  b.  13  May,  1829;  mar.  William  Haley, 
farmer,  b.  in  1825,  d.  in  1894;  residence  in  Greenvale,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Mary  E.,b.   in    1848;   mar.  (1st)   in   1863,   J.   D.   Ouimby; 
(2nd)  George  Oaks;  residence  in  Rangeley,  Me.     Issue: 

a.     Willie  Quimby;  is  a  trader  in  Rangeley. 

II.  Lois  E..  b.  in   1849;   mar.   George  Oaks;   d.  in  1869.     No 
issue. 

III.  William    A.,    b.    in    1853;    mar.  in  1-869.     Children  are 
Mertie;   Lena;   Alice  and  Florence. 

IV.  Cenath  J.,  b.  in   1858;   mar.  in  1874,   George  H.   Snow- 
man; resides  in  Rangelev;   have  dau.  Linnie. 


138  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

V.  Esther  A.,  b.  in  1862;  d.  in  1864. 

VI.  James  G.,  b.  in  1862;  an  adopted  child,  nephew  of  Mrs. 
Haley;   is  a  farmer  in  Rangeley. 

VII.  Chauncey,  b.  in  1873;  lives  with  his  mother. 

2d.  Lois  Braekett,  b.  1  Dec.,  1830,  in  Rangeley;  mar.  24  Oct., 
1858,  Thomas  Frazier,  b.  14  Jan.  1833,  d.  in  June,  1891,  son  of 
Joseph  and  wife,  Rhoda  Butterfield,  of  Rangeley;  was  a  farmer.  In 
1869,  he  removed  from  Maine  to  Minnesota;  in  1881,  removed  to 
North  Dakota.  Mrs.  Frazier  resides  at  Hoople  in  that  state.  She 
relates  a  story  told  by  her  grandfather  Braekett.  It  is  that  his 
grandfather,  who  was  living  with  one  of  his  sons,  heard  the  tinkle 
of  a  bell  which  was  worn  by  an  ox.  Supposing  the  ox  was  in 
mischief,  he  started  to  drive  it  out  of  the  corn.  The  bell  was  rung 
by  Indians  who  killed  the  grandfather  on  his  approach.     Issue: 

I.  Addie  M.,  b.  in  July,  1859;  mar.  15  Dec,  1887,  Thomas 
Wadge;  resides  at  Park  River,  N.  D.     Issue: 

a.     Earl  F.,  b.  15  Jury,  1889. 

II.  Fred  E.,  b.  in  Jan.,  1861;  mar.  21  June,  1893,  Maggie  L. 
Turner;  home  in  Charlevoix,  Mich.     Issue: 

a.     Eois  M.,  b.  19  Jan.,  1895. 

III.  Frank  F.,  b.  in  Apr.,  1863. 

IV.  Marcia  N.,  b.  in  Nov.,  1865. 

V.  Will  T.,  b.  in  Feb.,  1867;  d.  1  Apr.,  1900. 

VI.  Mamie  H.,  b.  in  May,  1872;  d.  21  Sept.,  1882. 

VII.  Lynn  J.,  b.  in  Dec,  1874;  attended,  as  student,  the 
University  of  North  Dakota. 

.'-id.  Joseph  J.,  b.  7  Aug.,  1832,  in  Dallas  plantation,  Me.; 
mar.  1  Apr.,  1858,  Nancy  A.  Haines,  b.  13  Oct.,  1838,  dau.  of  Lyman 
and  wife,  Sally  C.  James,  of  Rangeley,  Me.  He  resides  in  Rowley, 
Mass.;  is  a  mail  carrier.  His  name  was  changed  to  "Nile,"  by  an 
act  of  a  state  legislature.     Issue: 

I.  Blanch  E.,  b.  11  June,  1859,  mar.  in  Jan.,  1875,  Gorham 
R.  Hardy;  residence,  Rowle}',  Mass.     Issue: 

a.  Lottie  May,  b.  27  Aug.,  1876. 

b.  Joseph  Hale,  b.  1  June,  1878. 

c.  Frederick  Roscoe,  b.  19  Mar.,  1S80. 

d.  Harris  B.,  b.  9  Jan.,  1882. 

e.  Bertie  E.,  b.  22  June,  1883. 
/.  Ruth  E.,  b.  13  July,  1894. 
g.  Gracie  F.,  b.  15  Jan.,  1896. 

II.  Nellie  N.,  is  deceased. 

III.  Nettie  N.,  b.  17  Jan.,  1870;  mar.  (1st)  2  June,  1887, 
Sumner  McKeshnie;  (2nd)  30  Oct.,  1890,  Nahum  G.  Bubier;  resides 
in  Rowley,  Mass.     Issue,  by  first  husband: 

a.  Prudie  May. 
By  second  hnsband. 

b.  Perry  E.,  10  Apr.,  1892. 

c.  Nellie  N.,  27  Sept.,  1893. 

d.  Joseph  N.,  16  Mar.,  1896. 

e.  Nora  E.,  16  Dec,  1897. 

4th.  Hannah  J.,  b.  12  Aug.,  1834,  in  Rangeley,  Me.;  mar. 
25  Nov.,  1858,  Matthias  Haines,  b.  13  Oct.,  1835,  son  of  Lyman  and 
wife,  Sally  C.  James  of  Rangeley,  Me.,  formerly  of  Campton,  N.  H.; 
was  a  farmer  in  Rangeley;  now  in  Mexico,  Me.     Issue: 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  139 

I.  Eva  B.,  b.  7  Aug.,  1859;  mar.  7  Aug.,  1879,  Laforest 
Beedy;  home  in  Ridlonville,  Me.  Issue:  Bessie  A.,  b.  3  Aug.,  1880; 
Carson  L.,  b.  8  Mar.,  1882;  Freelan  F.,  b.  15  July  1884;  Flossie  E., 
b.  25  May,  1887;  RettaM.,  b.  10  Aug.,  1893;  Milfred  F.,  b.  21  June, 
1 90 1. 

II.  Josephine  C,  b.  29  Dec.,  i860;  mar.  17  July,  1881,  Joel 
Hoar;  home  in  Rangelev.  Issue:  Carl,  b.  28  Apr.,  1882;  Everett 
M.,  b.  28  Apr.,  1888. 

III.  Hannah  B.,  b.  18  Jan.,  1862;  mar.  10  Nov.,  1891,  Ira 
T.  Wing;  home  in  East  Madrid,  Me.  Issue:  Elsie  M.,  b.  25  Mar., 
1893;   Milo  M.,  b.  26  July,  1896;   Huldah  B.,  b.  15  Nov.,  1898. 

IV.  Joseph  M.,  b.  21  Apr.,  1865;  mar.  6  Apr.,  1887,  Sarah 
T.  Wilber;  home  in  Phillips,  Me.  Issue:  Oman  J.,  b.  14  Mar., 
1890;   Sarah  M.,  b.  29  Dec.,  1898. 

V.  Amy  G.,  b.  22  Jan.,  1867;  mar.  7  July,  1886,  Fred 
Dresser;  home  in  Georgetown,  Mass.  Issue:  Merton  G.,  b.  7  Mar., 
1 891. 

VI.  Angie  S.,  b.  4  Mar.,  1870;  mar.  25  Oct.,  1885,  Melvin 
J.  Doyen;  home  in  Ridlonville,  Me.  Issue:  Bertie  A.,  b.  17  June, 
1886;  Bernard  M.,  b.  10  Sept.,  1887;  Pearl  A.,  b.  8  Feb.,  1890; 
Mertie  A.,  b.  4  Oct.,  1896. 

VII.  Lyman  L.,  b.  19  Oct.,  1872. 

VIII.  Leon  F.,  b.  16  Nov.,  1876;  mar.  6  July,  1899,  Mertie 
L.  Davenport;  home  in  Rangelev,  Me. 

IX.  Harvey  J.,  b.  11  Sept., 1880. 

5th.  Luther,  b.  4  Dec,  1837;  mar.  (1st)  Belle  P.  Abbot,  is 
dec;  (2nd)  Josephine  Winship;  is  dec;  resided  in  Farmington,  Me. 
No  further  record. 

Oth.  Esther  M.,  b.  18  May,  1841;  mar.  29  Nov.,  i860,  John  R. 
Toothaker,  b.  8  Jan.,  1839,  son  of  Abner  and  wife,  Phoebe  Wilber 
of  Phillips,  Me.;  is  a  farmer  and  lumberman;  home  in  Rangeley. 
Issue: 

I.  Ermon  L.,  b.  8  Nov.,  1861;  mar.  28  Apr.,  1882,  Ella 
Hinkley;  home  in  Rangeley,  Me.  Issue:  Inza  B.,  b.  28  Feb.,  1883; 
Cora,  b.,  1  Sept.,  1886;  d.  24  May,  1887;  Einwood,  b.  3  May,  1888; 
Lero,  b.  30  July,  1890;  Fen,  b.  23  Dec,  1895;  Cherry,  b.  12  Jan., 
1900. 

II.  Minnie  E.,  b.  1  Feb.,  1864;  mar.  27  Aug.,  1880,  George 
Pillsbury;  home  in  Rangeley.  Issue:  Vern  G.,  b.  12  Nov.,  1881; 
Mary  E.,  b.  18  Jan.,  1883*  Lena  B.,  b.  18  Nov.,  1884;  Earl  S.,  b. 
26  Sept.,  1886;  John  R.,  b.  22  Jan.,  1888;  Phil  O.,  b.  20  Oct.,  1890; 
Lulene  A.,  b.  24  May,  1892;  Rolla  T.,  b.  27  Aug.,  1894;  Don  M.,  b. 
28  July,  1898;   Raiph  A.,  b.  26  Jan.,  1900. 

III.  Bertha  L.,  b.  10  Feb.,  1867;  d.  30  May,  1867. 

IV.  Lincoln  A.,  b.  18  Apr.,  1869;  mar.  4  July,  1890,  Ida 
Keith;  home  in  Rangeley.  Issue:  Ruby  E.,  b.  18  Apr.,  1891; 
Shirley  L-,  b.  10  May,  1893;   Van  W.,  b.  20  June,  1895. 

V.  Archie  R.,  b.  20  Aug.,  1872;  mar.  14  Nov.,  1891,  Addie 
Lamb;  home  in  Rangeley.  Issue:  Coe  E.,  b.  7  Apr.,  1892;  Hazel 
U.,  b.  28  Mar.,  1893. 

VI.  Elsie,  b.,  28  June,  1874;  d.  28  Dec,  1874. 

VII.  Rolla,  b.  13  Feb.,  1878;  lives  in  Rangeley. 


140  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

7th.  James  H.,b.  5  June,  1843,  in  Rangeley,  Me.;  mar.  2  Apr., 
1  s 7  1 .  [sabella  M.  Marsh,  1).  1  Feb.,  1852,  dau.  of  Isaiah  and  wife, 
Jerusha  Lewis  of  Waukegan,  111.;  is  a  fruit  grower;  resides  in  Fern- 
ley,  California.  He,  and  also  his  brother  Luther,  had  their  surname 
changed  to  Nile  by  an  act  of  the  state  legislature.     Issue: 

~  I.  EUa  ML,  b.  8  Jan.,  1872;  mar.  17  Nov.,  1895,  Guy  V. 
Robinson;  home  in  Fernley.     Issue: 

a.     Guy  Nile,  b.  6  Mar.,  1897. 

/>.      Aris  Isabella,  b.  16  Dec.,  1898. 

II.  Jessie,  b.  27  Oct.,  1875;  mar.  5  May,  1897,  Wm.  E.John- 
ston;  home  in  Nevada  City,  Cal.     Issue: 

a.  James  Carlyton,  b.  13  Feb.,  1898. 

b.  Zelda,  b.  14  June,    1899. 

III.  Cora  I!.,  b.  9  May,  1877. 

IV.  Herbert  J.,  b.  5  May,  1882. 

:;.  Lois,  b.  1  Dec,  1801;  mar.  in  1827,  John  Hoar  of  Rangeley, 
son  of   Luther  and  wife,  Eunice  Lakeman;  d.  in  June,  1846.     Issue: 

1st.      Mary  B.,  b.  3  Feb.,  1829;  mar.  Joseph  R.  Harris. 

2nd.  Dolly  B.,  b.  6  Aug.,  1830;  is  dec;  mar.  Jerry  B.  Ellis, 
is  dec.  Children:  William;  Amos;  Joshua;  Nathaniel;  three  daugh- 
ters. 

3d,  James  B.,  b.  12  Nov.,  1831;  surname  changed  to  Nile;  mar. 
5  Apr.,  [854,  Samantha  Hinkley,  b.  5  Feb.,  1828,  d.  10  Sept.,  1896, 

dau.  of  Oliver  and  wife,   Sarah of  Gardiner,   Me.;  is  a  farmer; 

home  in  Rangeley.      Issue: 

I.  James  O.,  b.  11  Feb.,  1855;  mar.  Lizzie  Steward;  d.  20 
Feb..  [898.  Children:  Nellie  A.;  Robert;  Samantha  O.;  Melvin; 
Bradford;  Belle;  Velma;  Louis,  b.  14  Feb.,  1898. 

II.  Anna  A.,  b.  17  Feb.,  1857;  mar.  (1st)  24  Sept.,  1883, 
Jesse  Ross;  (2nd)  9  Mar.,  1893,  Alexis  E.  Blodgett;  home  in 
Rangeley. 

III.  Infant  boy,  b.  2  Jan.,  1859;  d.  3  May,  1859. 

IV.  Zelier,  b.  25  Dec,  1859;  mar.  in  1893,  Clista  Thomas. 
No  issue. 

V.  Sarah  K..  b.  22  Feb.,  1861;   d.  in  May,  1861. 

VI.  Charles  E.,  b.  6  May,  1863;  mar.  in  Sept.,  1889,  Flora 
Taylor;  home  in  Rangeley.  Children:  James;  John;  Jessie  R.;  Louis; 
Addie;  Hattie. 

VII.  Benjamin  F.,  b.  9  Jan.,  1865;  mar.  in  Oct.,  1890,  Nellie 
Withie;  home  in  Rangeley.  Children,  Anna;  Naomi;  May;  Dolly; 
Frank,  1).  8  Jan.,  1898. 

VIII.  Daniel  L.,  b.    15  June,    1868;  mar.  Naomi  E.  Moody. 

IX.  Calvin  Daws,  b.  19  Dec,  187 1. 

4th.  John  L.,  b.  12  Aug.,  1834;  mar.  15  Mar.,  1855,  Dorcas 
Haley,  b.  12  Aug.,  1836,  dau.  of  John  and  wife,  Polly  Lowell  of 
Rangeley;   is  a  fanner;  had  his  surname  changed  to  Nile.     Issue: 

I.  John  F.,  b.  16  Jan.,  1856;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1886,  Mary  A. 
Collins.  Children:  OttoT.,  b.  25  Nov.,  1892;  Orrin  T.,  b.  9  Aug., 
1900. 

II.  Gunear  G.,  b.  23  Dec,  1858;  mar.  6  Feb.,  1876,  John  L. 
Ilnntoon.  Children:  Austin  L-,  b.  9  Nov.,  1879;  Harry,  b.  16  June, 
[888;   Mildred  G.,  b.  29  Nov.,  1897. 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  141 

III.  Isaac  E.,  b.  5  Dec,  1861;  mar.  14  Oct.,  1883,  LUlie  A. 
Hoar.  Children:  Lloyd,  b.  20  Mar.,  1884;  Dean,  b.  5  Jan.,  1886; 
Alton,  b.  20  Oct.,  1887;   Ethel,  b.  30  Apr.,  1889. 

IV.  Dennis,  b.  31  July,  1864;  mar.  2  Nov.,  1893,  Lillie  Moore. 
Children:  Roberta,  b.  6  Jan.,  1897;   Colon  H.,  b.  4  Jan.,  1900. 

V.  Lucy  A.,  b.  28  July,  1871;  mar.  Bert  Herrick. 

VI.  Milton  C,  b.  7  Oct.,  1873.     All  live  in  Rangeley. 

oth.  Benjamin  F.,  b.  in  1838,  in  Rangeley;  mar.  7  May,  1863, 
Virginia  S.  Chichester,  b.  about  1848,  dau.  of  Elias  and  wife,  Nancy 
Knox  of  California;  is  a  farmer;  home  in  Healdsburg,  Sonoma  co., 
Cal.     Issue: 

I.  Addie,  b.  in  1S65;  mar.  in  1882,  James  McDowell,  is  dec. 
Children:  James  E.;  Franklin  B.;  Pearl  M.;  William  A.;  Harry  E., 
Hazel  E.  II.  Benjamin  F.,  b.  in  1868.  III.  Charles  A.,  b.  in 
1870;  mar.  in  1900,  Emma  Hamlin.  IV.  Mary  L.,  b.  in  1871; 
mar.  in  1896,  Stephen  T.  Hare.  V.  Harry  H.,  b.  in  1880. 
VI.     Jennie  S.,  b.  in  1882. 

6th.  Jane  B.,  who  mar.  Samuel  Lane.  Children:  Ollie;  Stella; 
sou,  dec. 

7th.     Hannah  B.;   is  dec. 

8th.     Amos;  is  dec. 

9th.  Nathaniel  B.,  b.  22  May,  1841;  mar.  3  Apr.,  1867,  H. 
Elizabeth  Lamb,  b.  24  Mar.,  1848,  dau.  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Mercy 
A.  Dill  of  Rangeley;  served  in  7th  Me.  vol.  inf.  from  17  Aug.,  1861, 
to  Jan.,  1862;  in  co.  F,  2nd  Me.  vol.  cav.  from  17  Feb.,  1862,  to  16 
Dec,  1865;  surname  was  changed  to  Nile;  resides  in  Bloomfield, 
Cal.     Issue: 

I.  Jennie  M.,  b.  19  May,  1869;  d.  11  June,  1869. 

II.  Inza  E.,  b.  23  July,  1871;  mar.  Leroy  S.  Shanes,  who 
d.  in  1S98. 

10th.  Lois  E.,  b.  24  Dec,  1846;  mar.  Calvin  Moore;  home  in 
Phillips. 

4.  Jane;   never  mar.;   d.  in  1843. 

5.  Nathaniel  M.,  b.  1  Aug.,  1803.     See  family  6. 

6.  Dollv,  b.  11  Jan.,  1S07:  mar.  William  P.  Cook,  b.  5  Aug., 
1809,  d.  10  Sept.,  1871,  of  Phillips,  Me.;  she  d.  22  Jan.,  1887. 
Issue: 

1st.     Benjamin  L-,  b.  27  Feb.,    1840;  mar.  7  Oct.,   1868,   Beulah 
•  Taylor,   b.   2  Oct.,    1850,   dau.  of  Jonathan  and  wife,   Rebecca  Mc- 
pherson of  Salem,  New  Jersey;  is  a  groceryman  in  Salem.     Issue: 

I.  Ella  M.,  b.  13  Sept.,  1870;  mar.  11  Mar.,  1890,  Wilbert 
G.  Clark.  Issue:  Jesse,  b.  20  Apr.,  1894;  Beulah,  b.  13  Feb.,  1897; 
Norman,  b.  24  Feb.,  1899. 

II.  Jennie  T.,  b.  4  Sept.,  1875;  mar.  28  June,  1899,  John  A. 
Sutton. 

III.  Frank  Brackett,  b,  30  Sept.,  1877. 

IV.  Alice  Rebecca,  b.  22  July,  1883. 

V.  William  Phillips,  b.  8  Aug.,  1888. 

2nd.     Jane  B.,  who  mar.  Henry  Bates;  is  dec.     No  issue. 
3d.     Sarah  F.,  who  mar.  M.  Glenn;  d.  in  1877.     No  issue. 
4th.     Maria,  mar.  Levi  Bates;   d.  about  1876.     No  issue. 

5th.     Marv,   d.  10  Aug.,  ,  age  7  years. 

6th.     Hannah,   d.  11  Aug., ,  same  year,  age  5  years. 


142  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

7.  Anthony,  b.  in  1809;  d.  in  infancy. 

8.  James  P.,  b.  4  Mar.  1810.     See  family  7. 

9.  Joshua.  1).  ig  Mar.,  1812.      See  family  8. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From    Family    Xo.    1.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Abraham. 

Abraham  Brackett,  the  thirteenth  child  of  Abraham  and  wife, 
Joanna  Springer,  was  born  August  26,  1765,  in  Falmouth,  Me., 
where  he  resided  until  he  removed  to  Sidney,  Me.,  prior  to  1804. 
The  census  of  1790  shows  him  a  resident  of  Falmouth,  as  does  the 
census  of  1800.  In  Sidney  he  was  engaged  in  farming  until  his 
death,  November  19,  1838.  In  his  deposition  made  in  his  brother 
James'  claim  for  pension,  he  testified  that  he  well  remembered  both 
occasions  when  his  brother  enlisted  for  service  in  the  Continental 
army.  Married,  October  16.,  1786,  Hannah  hunt  of  Brunswick, 
Me.,  who  died  April  19,  1845.     Issue: 

1.  Polly,  b.  14  Feb.,   1788;  mar.   25  Feb.,    1806,   Oliver  Springer; 
lived  in  Sidney.      She  d.  27  Dec,  1829. 

2.  Mercy,  b.  1  May,  1789;  never  mar.;  d.  13  Dec,  1851. 

3.  Joan,   b.   2  Dec,    1790;  mar.  3  Sept.,    1809,   Robert    Packard. 
She  d.  1  Dec,  1857. 

4.  Esther,    b.    13    Oct.    1792;    mar.  31   Dec,    181 1,   Levi   Moore; 
lived  in  Sidney.     She  d.  28  July,  1862.     Issue: 

1st.  Sarah  Merrill,  b.  25  Oct.,  181 2;  mar.  in  Mar.,  1843, 
Franklin  L.  Spearin  of  Clinton,  Me.     She  d.  12  Dec,  1887.     Issue: 

I.  Mary  Esther,  b.  2  July,  1S45;  mar.  Fred  Brown  of  Ben- 
ton, Me. 

II.  William  Devi,  b.  6  Jan.,  1847;  mar.  Helen  Bean  of 
Hallowed,  Me.     He  d.  21  Oct.,  1894. 

III.  Lucy  Ann,  b.  ;  d.  in  infancy. 

IV.  Hannah  Moore,  b.  18  Nov.,  1851;  mar.  George  Sim- 
mons of  Hallowed,  Me. 

V.  Katie  Moore,  b.  30  Aug.,  1853;  mar.  Leslie  Brown  of 
Benton,  Me. 

2nd.     Hannah  Brackett,  b.  21  Dec,  1815;  d.  17  Oct.,  1863. 

3d.  Mercy  Ann,  b.  16  Nov.,  1818;  never  mar.;  d.  28  Aug., 
1870. 

4th.  Abraham  Brackett,  b.  7  Aug.,  1821;  is  dec;  mar.  21  Feb., 
1850,  in  Waterville,  Me.,  Eliza  Ann  Reynolds  of  Sidney,  Me.,  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Charles  Gardiner  officiating.     Issue: 

I.  Fred  Leslie,  b.  20  Apr.,  1851;  never  mar.;  d.  11  Nov., 
1872. 

II.  Frank  Calvin,  b.  6  Nov.,  1853;  mar.  11  June,  1886,  in 
Jamaica  Plain,  Mass.,  Mary  Weston  Merrill  of  Sidney,  Me.,  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Geo.  S.  Butters  officiating. 

III.  Enos  Lowe,  b.  25  Apr.,  1859. 

IV.  Mary  Caroline,  b.  24  June,  1861. 
Y.  Alice  Martha,  b.  12  Aug.,  1864. 

VI.  Antoinette  R.,  b.  20  July,  1868. 

5th.  Polly  Springer,  b.  29  May,  1823;  never  mar;  d.  10  July, 
1840. 


ABRAHAM,     OF     FALMOUTH  143 

6th.  Enos  Lowe,  b.  n  Apr.,  1825;  never  mar;  d.  31  Dec., 
1857,  in  California. 

5.  Abigail,  b.  26  Aug.,  1794;  mar.  in  Nov.,  1812,  Collins  Moore. 

6.  Sarah  F.,  b.  30  July,  1796;  mar.  in  Nov.,  1822,  Daniel  Jacobs; 
resided  in  Sidney,  Me. 

7.  Benjamin,  b.  20  June,  1798;  d.  11  Feb.,  1799. 

8.  Betsey,  b.  5  June,  1800;  never  mar.;  d.  18  Mar.,  1822. 

9.  Maria,  b.  17  June,  1S02;  mar.  3  Sept.,  1829,  Paul  T.  Stevens 
of  Sidney,  Me.     She  d.  14  Oct.,  1S43. 

10.  Abraham  D.,  b.  11  July,  1803.     See  family  9. 

11.  Ruth  S.,  b.  3  Nov.,  1805;  mar.  23  Dec,  1828,  Thomas  Avery; 
resided  in  Sidney,  Me.     She  d.  i2^uly,  1882. 

12.  Amos  L.,  b.  22  Jan.,  1808;  mar.  in  Nov.,  1838,  Eliza  M. 
Hodgkins.     He  d.  29  May,  1857.     No  issue. 

13.  Enos  L,.,  b.  20  Aug.,  1809.     See  family  10. 

14.  Stephen  B.,  b.  29  Nov.,  1811.     See  family  n. 

15.  Benjamin  F.,  b.  19  Feb.,  1814.     See  family  12. 

FAMILY  NO.  4. 

From    Family    No.    1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony. 

Anthony  Brackett  was  born  March  30,  1769,  in  Falmouth,  Me., 
where  he  continued  to  reside  until  about  the  time  of  his  marriage. 
The  census  of  1800  shows  him  living  in  Augusta,  Me.,  with  a  family 
of  four  sons  and  a  daughter.  He  married  Deborah  Shaw  born  about 
1 77 1,  died  May  2,  1857.  Was  a  farmer;  held  the  offices  of  selectman 
and  of  road  commissioner  in  Sidney,  Me.,  in  which  town  he  died  in 
June,  1 82 1.     Issue,  not  named  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Martha,  never  mar.;  lived  in  Augusta,  Me. 

2.  Abraham,  b.  about  1795.     See  family  13. 

3.  Samuel,  never  mar.;  lived  in  Augusta,  Me.;  was  drowned  in 
the  Kennebec  river. 

4.  George,  never  mar.;  lived  in  Boston  where  he  d.  at  an  ad- 
vanced age. 

5.  Anthony,  b.  in  Sept.  1800.     See  family  14. 

6.  John,  mar.  Laura  Aiken;  lived  in  Augusta.  No  further 
record. 

7.  Deborah,  never  mar.;  lived  in  Boston;  she  went  south  sub- 
sequently to  the  death  of  her  brother  Ruel,  to  look  after  his  estate 
and  was  never  heard  from. 

8.  Lucy,  mar.  Elijah  Howard;  lived  in  Boston.  Children:  Ellen; 
Maty;  Orlando. 

9.  James  S.,  b.  20  June,  1810.     See  family  15. 

10.  Ruel,  never  mar.;  lived  in  Boston;  went  south  where  he 
died  before  the  civil  war. 

FAMILY  NO.  5. 

From    Family     No.    1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Samuel. 
Samuel  Brackett  was  born  November  5,  1770,  in  Falmouth,  Me., 
where  he  resided  during  his  life;  was  a  physician  and  practiced  in 


144  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Portland.     He  was  the  only  male  member  of  his  father's  family  who 

spent  his  days  in  Old  Falmouth.     Married  Thresa ,  and  died 

in  Portland.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.     Cornelius  F.  S.,  who  mar.  6  June,   1828,  Mary  Ann  Reid;  he 
was  a  physician;   no  further  record. 

L'.     Joan,  who  married  Elvator  Elder. 

3.     Charles  W.  F.;  went  to  Boston.     No  further  record. 

I.      Frances,  who  married  William  Sears  of  Charleston,  Mass. 

5.     Mary  R.,  b.  . 

The  last  three  named  children  were  minors  in  1842;  in  that  year 
their  guardian,  Simon  Elder,  conveyed  their  interest  in  the  following 
described  property,  subject  to  their  mother's  dower  in  the  same. 
Begin  at  Piscataqua  bridge,  thence  down  river  to  Jere  Hall's  land; 
thence  by  Hall's  land  to  Gallison's  land;  thence  by  Gallison's  land 
to  road;  thence  by  road  to  beginning.  On  the  above  described  tract 
probably  was  situated  the  residence  of  Dr.  Samuel  Brackett.  The 
heirs  conveyed  no  other  tract. 


SEVENTH     GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From    Family    No.    2.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  James,  Nathaniel  M. 

Nathaniel  Mitton  Brackett  was  born  August  1,  1803;  married 
October  25,  1837,  Sail}'  Worthley,  born  October  25,  1808,  died  Octo- 
ber 6,  1856,  daughter  of  Asa  and  wife,  Jane  Storer,  of  Avon,  Me. 
Mr.  Brackett  was  a  farmer;  he  died  in  California,  September  7,  1893. 
Issue: 

1.  Jacob  H.,  b.  17  Dec,  1838.     See  family  16. 

2.  Mary  J.,  b.  18  Sept.,  1840,  in  Madrid,  Me.;  mar.  3  Mar.,  1869, 
Richard  H.  McKenney,  b.  12  June,  1832,  son  of  Richard  and  wife 
Betsey  Barter  of  Phillips,  Me.  Mr.  McKenney  is  a  farmer  in  Phillips. 
Issue: 

1st.     Charles  H.,   b.   7   Aug.,    1871;    mar.   7   Aug.,    1899,   Retta 
Phillips;  residence,  Phillips,  Me.     Issue: 
I.     Arlon  P.,  b.  18  Sept.,  1901. 

2d.  Lillian,  b.  31  July,  1879;  mar.  3  Jan.,  1898,  Frank  Calden; 
residence,  Phillips,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Richard  I,  b.  10  June,  1899,  in  Phillips. 

II.  Herbert  S.,  b.  7  Mar.,  1901,  in  Phillips. 

3.  Ansel,  b.  25  Dec,  1842;  d.  27  Sept.  1864. 

1.  Asa  Worthley,  b.  18  June,  1845;  married  Ella  Whitmore;  d. 
28  Sept.,  1884.     No  issue. 

5.  William  Francis,  b.  22  Mar.,  1848;  residence,  Phillips,  Me., 
on  the  farm  that  was  owned  by  his  grandfather  Brackett,  now  his 
property. 

6.  George  Worthley,  b.  21  Sept.,  1855;  residence,  Santa  Rosa, 
Cal. 


ABRAHAM,     OF     FALMOUTH  145 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From    Family    No.    2.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  James,  James  L. 

James  L.  Brackett  was  born  March  4,  1810;  married  March  28, 
1838,  Nancy  T.  Bubier,  b.  September  20,  1821,  died  April  17,  1893, 
daughter  of  Mark  and  wife  Betsey  Shepard,  of  Dallas  plantation, 
Me.  Mr.  Brackett  was  a  farmer  and  resided  in  Dallas  plantation; 
he  died  March  6,  1868.     Issue: 

1.  Flias  F.,  b.  2  Sept.,  1839.     See  family  17. 

2.  Sarah  J.,  b.  1  May,  1842;  d.  2  Apr.,  1899;  mar.  30  June,  1861, 
William  H.  Smith,  d.  8  June,  1896,  son  of  John  and  wife,  Silence 
Mitchell;  resided  in  Phillips,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Evalina,  b.  27  Dec,  1862;  married  Jerry  Lowell. 

2nd.     Tryphena  H.,  who  married  Charles  Neal. 

3d.     Lillian  M.,  who  married  Arthur  W.  Soule.     Issue: 

I.     Silence  J.,  b.   13  Jan.,    1883.      II.     Edna  M.  b.  30  Oct., 
1896.     III.     Lunette.     IV.     Baby  boy. 
4th.     Clara  M.,  b.  1  July,  1872. 

3.  Melissa,  b.   25  Feb.,   1844;  mar.  26  Dec,  1863,   Reuben  Ross, 

son  of  Elbridge  G.  and  wife  Sarah  of  Rangeley,  Me.       Shed. 

in  Nov.,  1880.     Issue: 

1st.     Ernest,  who  married  Cora  M.  Lowell.     Issue: 

I.     Mary    M.     II.     Lisle    J.     III.     Annie    B.     IV.     Willis. 
V.     Susan  M. 

2d.     Herbert,  who  married  Esther  Gile.     Issue: 
I.     Ilda. 

3d.     Nancy,  who  married  Henry  Robish.     Issue: 

Three  boys  who  were  drowned  in  1899  while  fishing  in  a  boat. 

4th.     Elbridge,  who  married  Josie  Taylor. 

5th.     Abram,  who  married  Myra  Wilbur. 

Gth.     Joseph  J. 

4.  Clarissa,  b.  3  Sept.,  1847;  mar.  8  Nov.,  1865,  Isaac  R.  Bubier, 
b.  31  Dec,  1842,  son  of  Alfred  and  wife,  Nancy  Withey,  of  Dallas 
plantation,  Me.     Isaac  R.  and  wife,  reside  in  Phillips,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Joshua  S.,  b.  29  July,  1867;  d.  30  Mar.,  1872. 

2d.     George  E.,  b.  28  Apr.,  1869;  d.  14  July,  1869. 

3d.  Lois  A.,  b.  16  Apr.,  1870;  mar.  22  Sept.,  1890,  Freeman 
Perry.     Issue: 

I.     Olive  G.,  b.  3  Mar.,  1893. 

4th.     David  N.,  b.  22  Apr.,  1872;  d.  9  Jan.,  1893. 

5th.  Jane  M.,  b.  6  Apr.,  1875;  mar.  11  Sept.,  1893,  Walter 
Perry.     Issue: 

I.     Belle,  b.  4  Dec,  1896. 

6th.     James  O.,  b.  8  Nov.,  1878;  d.  3  Mar.,  1883. 

7th.     Carlton  F.,  b.  24  Jan.,  1880. 

8th.     Clarissa,  b.  25  June,  1882;  d.  3  Aug.,  1883. 

9th.     Isaac  K.,  b.  27  Apr.,  1886. 

10th.     Nancy  W.,  b.  4  July,  1888;  d.  24  Mar.,  1889. 

11th.     Veard,  b.,  7  Feb.,  1890;  d.  3  Dec,  1892. 

5.  Joseph  J.,  b.  12  Dec,  1850;  unmarried;  a  farmer  in  Rangeley, 
Me. 

<">.  James  N.,  b.  10  July,  1853;  unmarried;  a  farmer  in  Rangeley, 
Me. 


140  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

7.  Eunice  A.,  b.  i  Sept.,  1855;  mar.  23  Oct.,  1870,  Robert  Crosby. 
She  d.  12  June,  1875.     Issue: 

1st.  Yilletta,  who  mar.  Nathan  Alber. 
2nd.     Emma,  who  mar.  Fred  Raymond. 

8.  Nancy  E.,  b.  10  Jan.,  1857;  resides  in  Rangeley,  Me. 

FAMILY   NO.    8. 

From    Family    No.    2.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  James,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born  March  19,  181 2;  married  November  30, 
[834,  Mary  Cook,  b.  in  1814,  in  Madrid,  Me.,  living  in  1905,  daugh- 
ter of  Abel  Cook  and  wife,  Olive  Plummer.  Joshua  Brackett  was 
seven  years  old  when  his  father  removed  from  Sidney  to  Oxford 
county;  he  lived  on  the  home  farm,  now  in  West  Phillips,  Me.,  for 
forty-five  years;  sold  it  to  the  sons  of  his  brother,  Nathaniel  M.,  and 
moved  nearer  to  the  village;  was  a  prosperous  farmer  and  lumber- 
man; died  in  November,  1893.     Issue: 

1.  Nathan  C,  b.  28  July,  1836.     See  family  18. 

2.  Olive  A.,  b.  17  Sept.,  1S38;  mar.  D.  C.  Eeavitt;  she  d.  in 
1897.     No  issue. 

3.  James  S.,  b.  23  June,  1841;   mar.  Ella  Roysell.     Issue: 

1st.     Sarah  M.,  who  mar.  14  Feb.,  1900,  Louis  Bartlett  Costello, 
b.  14  Sept.,   1876,  in  Wells,  Me.,  son  of  Nicholas  of  Prince  Edwards 
island  and  Anna  Hill  of  Wells,  Me.     Issue: 
I.      Eouis,  b.  27  May,  1902. 

4.  Eaura  N.,  b.  6  May,  1850;  mar.  28  Sept.,  1901,  George  Will- 
ard  Wood,  b.  21  Aug.,  1854,  in  Eewiston,  Me.,  son  of  James  and 
Elizabeth  Blackwell;  he  is  editor  of  the  Eewiston  Daily  Sun. 

0.  Eura  E.,  b.  twin  with  Laura  N.;  mar.  7  June,  1884,  Scott 
Eightner,  b.  23  Nov.,  1847,  son  of  Henry  and  wife,  Mary  Stuart,  of 
Perry  co.,  Penn.;  is  cashier  of  Bank  of  Harper's  Ferry,  W.  Va. 
She  began  work  in  Storer  college  in  1870,  as  an  assistant  teacher,  with 
which  institution  she  has  since  been  connected,  except  a  few  months 
in  1872;  is  a  graduate  of  Western  State  normal  school  at  Farmington, 
Me.     Her  work  in  Storer  college  has  been  in  its  normal  department. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From    Family    No.    3.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Abraham,  Abraham  D. 

Abraham  D.  Brackett  was  born  in  Sidney,  Me.,  July  11, 
1803;  in  his  infancy,  his  father  moved  to  Augusta,  Me.  He  married 
July  8,  1830,  Elizabeth  Eongley,  who  died  February  15,  1884, 
daughter  of  Obediah  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Woodcock,  of  Sidney,  Me. 
Mr.  Brackett  was  a  farmer;  he  resided  in  Clinton  and  later  in  Sid- 
ney, Me.,  where  he  died  April  19,  1850.     Issue: 

1.  Hannah  Elizabeth,  b.  in  1832;  mar.  Charles  H.  Ellis.  She 
d.  7  Mar.,  1895. 

2.  Annette  A.,  b.  in  1834;  d.  8  Apr.,  1853. 

3.  Esther,  b.  in  1837;  mar.  Sewall  Woodcock. 

4.  Andrew  T.,  b.  30  Aug.,  1839.     See  family  19. 
o.     Benjamin  F.,  b.  10  Jan.,  1841.     See  family  20. 


ABRAHAM,     OF     FALMOUTH  147 

FAMILY   NO.    10. 
From    Family    No.    3.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Abraham,  Enos  L. 

Enos  L.  Brackett  was  born  in  Sidney,  Me.,  August  20,  1809; 
married  June  10,  1833,  (1st)  Miranda  C.  Brackett,  born  in  1818, 
daughter  of  Zachariah  and  wife,  Mary  Cleaves,  of  New  Gloucester, 
Me.  (see  div.  5,  fam.  13);  she  is  deceased;  married  (2nd)  in 
December,  1839,  Nancy  Robinson.  In  1850,  Mr.  Brackett  lived  in 
Waterville,  Me.;  he  died  May  21,  1853.     Issue: 

1.  Orrin,   b.  about   1836;  probably  married  Ellen  ;  had  son 

Frank,  b.  1859;  lived  in  Waterville  in  i860,  and  d.  in  186-. 

2.  Miranda,  b.  about  1841;   no  further  record. 

3.  Nancy,  b.  about  1843;   no  further  record. 

4.  Josephine,  b.  about  1846;   no  further  record. 

5.  Sarah,  b.  about  1848;   no  further  record. 

6.  William,  b.  about  1850;   no  further  record. 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 
From    Family   No.     3.     Descent:     Anthony,     Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Abraham,  Stephen  B. 

Stephen  B.  Brackett  was  born  November  29,  181 1,  in  Sidney, 
Me.  He  married  December  31,  1840,  Eouisa  M.  Eunt,  born  Febru- 
ary 14,  1 81 8,  in  Brunswick,  Me.,  died  March  19,  1894,  in  Deering, 
Me.  Mr.  Brackett  was  a  school  teacher;' died  August  17,  1864,  in 
Deering,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Joseph  Henry,  b.  23  Nov.,  1841;  d.  29  Aug.,  1880. 

2.  Elura,  b.  3  June,  1843;   d.  19  May,  1870. 

3.  Marv  Addia,  b.  25  Sept.,  1N46. 

4.  Charles  E.,  b.  18  Dec,  [848;  d.  25  Apr.,  1865. 

5.  Eouisa  Ellen,  b.  29  Dec,  1851;   d.  15  Apr.,  1874. 

6.  Hannah  Frances,  b.  16  May,  1853;  mar.  W.  E.  Watson,  of 
Deering,  Me.;  resides  in  Deering.  Mr.  Watson  is  treasurer  of  the 
Brackett  Family  association. 

7.  Lizzie,  b.  23  Sept.,  1856;  mar.  Albert  E.  Emerson,  a  car- 
penter; lived  in  Biddeford,  Me.     She  d.  24  May,  1889.     Issue: 

1st.  Delcena  Olive,  mar.  Albert_  Berry;  children  are  Ralph; 
Elura;   Everett,  dec;   Alice  Winifred. 

2nd.  Mildred  Anna,  married  Rev.  Mr.  Chas.  H.  Garland;  chil- 
dren, Ruth;  Dorothy  E.;  Esther;   Roger;    Phillip. 

3d.     Bernice    Louise,    mar.  Guy   Goldthwaite.     Child,   Weston. 

4th.     Winifred,  d.  in  infancy. 

FAMILY  NO.  12. 
From  Family  No.  3.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Abraham,  Benjamin  F. 
Benjamin  F.  Brackett  was  born  February  19,  18 14;  in  Sidney, 
Me.;  married  February  3,  1837,  Mary  Snow  of  Canton,  Mass.,  born 
about  181 7.  The  census  of  1850  shows  Mr.  Brackett  a  resident  of 
Augusta,  Me.  He  was  captain  of  a  steamboat;  died  January  n, 
1852.     Issue: 

1.  Abraham,  b.  about  1839;  no  further  record. 

2.  Mary  E.,  b.  about  1849;  no  further  record. 


1  IS  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From    Family    No.     4.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  Abraham. 

Abraham  Braekett  was  born  about  1795,  in  Augusta,  Me.;  mar- 
ried Delane  Wade,  born  about  1795.  Dates  of  the  death  of  himself 
and  wife  have  not  been  learned.  In  1850,  as  the  census  of  that  year 
shows,  he  lived  in  Augusta,  Me.;  his  family  then  consisted  of  daugh- 
ters. Caroline,  Augusta,  Eucretia,  Elvira,  and  son  William  F.     Issue: 

1.  Caroline  Goldwaite,  b.  10  Oct.,  1818;  never  married;  d.  in 
Augusta,  Me. 

2.  Melvin  Abraham,  b.  20  Mar.,  1821.     See  family  21. 

.'!.  Abigail  Wade,  b.  6  May,  1823;  mar.  (1st)  Martin  Arris  of 
Lisbon,  Me.;  mar.  (2nd)  Bronson.     No  issue: 

4.  Elizabeth  G.,  b.  8  Feb.,  1825,  in  Augusta,  Me.;  mar.  22  Apr., 
1852,  Reuben  G.  Freeman,  b.  19  Jan.,  1824,  son  of  Elisha  and  wife, 
Maria  Covell,  of  Nova  Scotia.  Mr.  Freeman  is  a  dealer  in  shoes; 
has  lived  in  Nova  Scotia  and  in  the  state  of  Massachusetts;  now 
resides  in  Minneapolis,  Minn.     Issue: 

1st.  Orlando  Howard,  b.  7  Dec,  1855;  mar.  16  Dec,  1885, 
Marian  F.  Hoffman;  residence,  Minneapolis,  Minn.     Issue: 

I.  Howard  H.,  b.  in  Dec,  1887. 

II.  Theadore  W.,  b.  in  Dec,  1890. 

2d.  Henry  Wilson,  b.  15  July,  1858;  mar.  in  Nov.,  1894,  Mary 
Poole;  residence,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

3d.  Jessie  Helen,  b.  27  Apr.,  i860;  mar.  6  Nov.,  1883,  Arthur 
A.  Pomeroy;  residence,  Philadelphia.     Issue: 

I.  Helen  E-,  b.  in  May,  . 

II.  George  O.,  b.  in  Oct.,  1888. 

III.  Chester,  b.  in  Oct.,  1895. 

4th.  Bertha  Adelia,  b.  7  Nov.,  1861;  mar.  8  Jan.,  1884,  Frank 
E.  Jackson;  residence,  Minneapolis.     Issue: 

I.  Charles  F.,  b.  in  Jan.,  1886. 

II.  Ruth  E.,  b.  in  August,  1889. 

5th.  Ena  Porter,  b.  6  May,  1863;  mar.  24  Dec,  1885,  Willard 
J.  Hield;  residence,  Minneapolis.     Issue: 

I.  Clifford,  b.  in  July,  1888. 

II.  Willard  F.,  b.  in  Dec,  1895;  d.  8  Apr.,  1898. 

5.  Rachael  Augusta,  b.  20  June,  1827;  mar.  Daniel  Orcutt  of 
Boston.     She  d.  in  Georgia.     Issue: 

I.     Augusta.     II.     Eaura. 

6.  Delane  Wade,  b.  18  Apr.,  1829;  d.  18  Feb.,  1834,  in  Welling- 
ton, Me. 

7.  George  Washington,  b.  20  Feb.,  1831;  d.  12  Feb.,  1834. 

8.  Eucretia  Ann,  b.  22  Apr.,  1833;  mar.  22  Apr.,  1853,  David  T. 
Whitehouse  of  Boston,  who  d.  in  July,  1900;  resided  in  Dorchester, 
Mass.  She  died  in  1900  in  Berwick,  Me.  Issue:  1st.  Alonzo. 
2nd.  Harrison  C.  3d.  Charles  H.  4th.  Willie  A.  5th.  Eillie 
M.     6th.     Etta  J.     7th.     Elizabeth.     8th.     Bertha  E. 

9.  Elvira  Howard,  b.  6  Jan.,  1835,  in  Augusta,  Me.,  mar.  28 
August,  1852,  Anthony  Smith,  b.  17  Apr.,  1829,  son  of  EHab  and 
wile,  Sarah  Robinson,  of  Sidney,  Me.  Mr.  Smith  is  a  farmer;  resi- 
dence, East  Waldoboro,  Me.;  has  also  resided  in  Augusta  and  Sid- 
ney, Me.     Issue: 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  149 

1st.     Frederick  R.,  b.    15  Mar.,    1855;  d.   5  Oct.,    1862. 

2nd.  Emma  A.,  b.  26  Oct.,  185s;1  mar.  26  Mar.,  1884,  George 
W.  Studley.     She  d.  23  May,  1898. 

3d.  Jennie  E.,  b.  17  Sept.,  1862;  mar.  2  July,  1882,  George  R. 
Conant;  residence,  East  Waldoboro,  Me. 

4th.     Alice  May,  b.  17  Jan.,  1866. 

5th.     Mary  E.,'b.  13  Mar.,  1868. 

6th.     Nettie  F.,  b.  18  Oct.,  1871. 

10.  William  Franklin,  b.  2  Jan.,  1839;  mar.  Maria  Sennott  of 
Boston;  resided  in  Lynn.     He  d.  13  July,  1901.     Issue: 

1st.     Florence,   is  deceased. 

11.  Samuel,  who  d.  in  infancy. 

FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From    Family    No.    4.     Descent:     Anthony,     Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  Anthony. 

Anthony  Brackett  was  born  in  September,  1800,  in  Sidney,  Me. 
He  married  Hannah  Lambert  Wilson,  born  in  1802,  in  Lisbon,  Me., 
and  died  September  16,  1S85,  in  New  York  city.  He  was  a  real 
estate  broker  in  Cambridge,  Mass.;   died  December  28,  1864.     Issue: 

1.  Martha  Lucretia,  who  d.  in  infancy. 

2.  Lucretia  Martha,  who  d.  in  infancy. 

8.     Anthony,  b.  9  July,   [830;  d.  6  Sept.,  1833. 

4.  Samuel  A.,  b.  in  [833;   was  married;   is  deceased.     No  issue. 

5.  Charles  Lysander,  b.  7  Mar.,   1835.     See  family  22. 

C>.  Hannah  Cornelia,  b.  9  June,  1838,  in  Cambridge,  Mass.;  mar. 
16  June,  1859,  Henry  Gershom  Laughton.     She  died  25  May,  1880. 

7.  Orestes  Rodman,  b.  28  Feb.,  1841,  in  Dorchester,  Mass.;  mar. 
Julia  Parker.     He  d.  in  Nov.,  18S1.     Issue,  one  daughter. 

8.  Alonzo  Clifford,  b.  24  May,  1844.      See  family  23. 

FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From  Family  No.  4.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S. 
James  Shaw  Brackett  was  born  June  20,  18 10,  in  Sidney,  Me.; 
married  in  1S33,  Eunice  Diusmore,  born  October  8,  1S12,  died  March 
2.S,  1S82,  daughter  of  Thomas  and  wife,  Harriet  Moore,  of  Anson,  Me. 
Mr.  Brackett  was  a  farmer;  resided  in  Sidney,  Augusta,  Anson, 
Augusta,  Madison  and  Stark,  Me.,  in  the  order  named.  He  died 
July  9,  1877.     Issue,   not  given  in  order  of  births: 

1.  Anthony,  b.  27  April,  1834.      See  family  24. 

2.  Thomas  D.,  b.  in  1836.     See  family  25. 

3.  James  N.,  b.  21  Aug.,  1839.     See  family  26. 

4.  Franklin  W.,  b.  27  Apr.,  1843.     See  family  27. 

5.  Abbie  F.,  b.  9  Dec,  1844,  in  Stark,  Me.;  mar.  16  Sept.,  1861, 
Stephen  S.  Woodcock,  b.  14  Aug.,  1843,  son  of  George  F.,  and  wife, 
Emeliue  Oilman,  of  Stark,  Me.;  is  a  farmer;  residence,  South  Nor- 
ridgewock,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.  Hattie  B.,  b.  11  Dec,  1862;  mar.  31  May,  1884,  Walter  A. 
Rogers.     Issue: 


150  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

I.  Edith  M.(  b.  30  May,  1885. 

II.  Abbie  F.,  b.  19  Jan.,  1887. 

III.  Mary  N„  b.  13  Dec,  1889. 

IV.  Olive  W.,  b.  16  Aug.,  1892. 

V.  Bessie  C,  b.  29  Nov.,  1896. 
2d.     James  B.,  b.  15  Apr.,  1864. 

3d.     George  F.,  b.  15  Sept.,  1867;  d.  15  Aug.,  1869. 
4th.     Olive  S.,  b.  25  Aug.,  1869;   mar.  26  Jan.,  1896,  Charles  K. 
Bigelow. 

5th.     Everett  D.,  b.  17  July,  1872;   d.  5  Apr.,  1893. 
6th.     Bessie  M.,  b.  3  Aug.,  1877. 
7th.     Charles  E.,  b.  31  Oct.,  1884. 

6.  Lydia  S.,  b.  1  Jan.,  1847,  in  Stark,  Me.;  mar.  (1st)  3  Apr., 
1866,  Oliver  Porter,  b.  26  May,  1827,  d.  23  Dec.,  1882,  son  of  Tyler 
and  wife,  Mary  Quarles,  of  Hamilton,  Mass.  He  was  a  drover  and 
butcher;  lived  in  Hamilton,  Mass.,  and  Norridgewock,  Me.  She 
mar.  (2nd)  Selden  Buswell.     Issue: 

1st.  George,  b.  3  Feb.,  1867;  resides  in  South  Norridgewock, 
Me. 

2nd.  Benjamin  F.,  b.  21  Dec,  1868;  mar.  6  July,  1889,  Harriet 
F.  Hilton;  he  is  a  house-painter  and  paper-hanger;  resides  in  Anson, 
Me.     Issue: 

I.     Oliver  J.,  b.  3  Aug.,  1890. 

3d.  Thomas,  b.  17  Nov.,  1870;  mar.  Ida  Tuttle;  lives  in 
Farmington,  Me.     Issue,  four  children. 

4th.     Harry,  b.  24  Oct.,  1872;  residence,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

5th.  Oliver  B.,  b.  3  Apr.,  1877;  mar.  Esther  Oilman;  resi- 
dence, Skowhegan,  Me.     Issue:    Hazel. 

6th.  Grace  B.,  b.  6  Mar.,  1881;  mar.  Dexter  Kempton;  resi- 
dence, Phillips,  Me.     Issue,  one  child,  a  girl. 

7.  George  O.,  who  mar.  in  1862,  Jane  Pennell;  residence,  not 
known:   no  issue. 

8.  Samuel,  b.  10  Sept.,  1849.     See  family  28. 

9.  Orlando  H.,  b.  21  Mar.,  1851.     See  family  29. 

10.  Harriet,  who  d.  18  June,  1858. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    16. 

From    Family    No.    6.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  James,  Nathaniel  M.,  Jacob  H. 

Jacob  H.  Brackett  was  born  December  17,  1838;  he  married 
October  23,  1866,  Joanna  Gregory,  born  February  12,  1849,  daughter 
of  John  and  wife,  Sarah  J.  Carter,  of  California.  Mr.  Brackett  is  a 
farmer;  removed,  in  1861,  from  Maine  to  California;  resides  in  Santa 
Rosa.     Issue: 

1.  Lillian  May,  b.  27  Oct.,  1868;   d.  14  Aug.,  1879. 

2.  William  H.,  b.  2  Nov.,  1870. 

3.  Hardy  N.,  b.  25  Sept.,  1880. 

4.  Asa  M.,  b.  19  Oct.,  1884. 

5.  Raymond,  b.  11  Oct.,  1889.     All  reside  in  Santa  Rosa. 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  151 

FAMILY  NO.  17. 

From  Family  No.  7.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Abraham,  James,  James  L,.,  Elias  F. 
Elias  F.  Brackett  was  born  September  2,  1838;  he  married  June 
30,  1861,  in  Dallas,  Me.,  Hannah  Oaks,  born  September  26,  1843, 
Rev.  Mr.  E.  Toothaker  officiating.  Mr.  Brackett  is  a  farmer;  resi- 
dence, Rangeley,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Ellen,  b.  14  Apr.,  1863;  mar.  (1st)  Clarence  Hinkley;  (2nd) 
in  1899,  Frank  Oaks.  Issue,  by  first  husband:  1st.  Cynthia. 
2nd.  Arvilla.  3d.  Andy.  4th.  Evert.  Bv  second  husband:  5th. 
Montfred.     (ith.   Otis. 

2.  Ella,  b.  twin  with  Ellen;  mar.  (1st)  Charles  Wyman;  (2nd) 
in  1880,  Alonzo  Dill.     Issue:     1st.  Lena  Dill.     2nd.  Georde  Dill. 

3.  Walter  A.,  b.  12  Sept.,  1864;  mar.  in  1891,  Edith  Lamb. 

4.  Alfred,  b.  22  Oct.,  1865;  mar.  (1st)  Mina  Ellis;  (2nd)  in  1899, 
Hannah  Hoar. 

5.  Roderick,  b.  31  Oct.,  1867;  mar.  in  1895,  Agnes  Ross.     Issue: 
1st.     Owis. 

6.  James  L.,  b.  24  June,  1869;  mar.  in  1890,  Minnie  Tibbetts. 
Issue: 

1st.   Inez. 

7.  Wealthy,  b.  19  Aug.,  187 1;  mar.  in  1889,  Horace  Loomis. 
Issue:     1st.   Randle.     2nd.     Armonia. 

8.  Emily  M.,  b.  24  Mar.,  1873;  mar.  in  1890,  Irving  Oaks. 
Issue:     1st.   Gertrude  E. 

9.  Julia  A.,  b.  3  July,    1875;  mar.  in  1895,   Fred  Lamb.     Issue: 

1st.     Lewis. 

10.  Sylvester,  b.  6  Mar.,  1877. 

11.  Ruey  T.,  b.  25  May,  1879;   mar.  in  1899,  Fred  Ellis. 

12.  Sanson,  b.  22  Mar.,  1881. 

13.  Gertrude  A.,  b.  31  Jan.,  1884. 

14.  Mandy  V.,  b.  16  Sept.,  1886. 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From    Family    No.    8.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  James,  Joshua,  Nathan  C. 

Nathan  Cook  Brackett  was  born  in  Phillips,  Me.,  July  28,  1836; 
entered  Maine  state  seminary  at  its  opening  in  1857;  graduated 
from  Dartmouth  college  in  1864;  in  1883,  the  degree  of  Ph.  D.  was 
conferred  upon  him  by  Bates  college;  in  August,  1864,  was  ordained 
to  the  ministry  and  sent  by  the  U.S.  Christian  commission  to  the 
arm>*.  In  October,  1865,  he  was  appointed,  by  the  Free  Baptist 
Home  Mission  society,  superintendent  of  a  mission  to  the  negroes. 
In  1867,  at  the  organization  of  Storer  college,  at  Harper's  Ferry, 
W.  Va.,  organized  mainly  through  his  efforts,  he  was  made  its  prin- 
cipal and  treasurer;  the  latter  office  he  still  holds;  resigned  the 
former  after  thirt}7  years'  service.  The  education  of  the  negro  along 
the  lines  he  is  capable  of  making  advancement,  viz.,  industrial  pur- 
suits, has  been  Mr.  Brackett's  work,  to  which  he  has  devoted  the 
efforts  of  soul  and  heart.  Has  been  active  in  the  business  and  politi- 
cal affairs  of  the  community;   in  1870  and  1871,  was  county  superin- 


152  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

tendent  of  schools,  and  has  served  several  terms  as  member  of  the 
town  council;  is  director  of  Bank  of  Harper's  Ferry;  also  is  presi- 
dent of  the  board  of  regents  of  Bluefield  institute,  a  state  school  for 
colored  pupils.  Home  is  in  Harper's  Ferry.  Married  October  16, 
[865,  Louise  Wood,  born  June  10,  1842,  daughter  of  James  and  wife, 
Elizabeth  Blackwell,  of  Lewiston,  Me.;  she  graduated  in  i860,  from 
Maine  state  seminary,  which  became  Bates  college;  was  a  teacher 
in  Storer  college  until  1891,  when  poor  health  compelled  her  to  lay 
aside  all  work  for  several  years.  Was  one  of  the  first  to  advocate 
industrial  training  for  the  negroes;  as  early  as  1865,  gave  lessons  in 
sewing  to  the  girls,  and  continued  to  give  instructions  in  sewing 
when  a  teacher  in  Storer  normal  school.  She  and  her  husband  have 
devoted  their  lives  to  the  uplifting  of  the  colored  race,  and  have 
achieved  a  degree  of  success  far  greater  than  one  would  expect  could 
be  attained.     Issue: 

1.  James  Wood,  b.  30  June,  1867.      See  family  30. 

2.  Mary,    b.    13   Nov.,    1868;    mar.    29  June,    1S97,    Thomas  E. 

Robertson,    son    of   Thomas   J.    W.,    and  wife,  Jane  Matilda  , 

parents  b.  in  England,  is  a  patent  attorney;  residence,  Chevy  Chase, 
Md.      Issue: 

1st.     Thomas  Brackett,  b.  16  July,  1898. 
2nd.     Nathan  Wood,  b.  4  July,  1902. 
3d.     Louis  Robertson,  b.  10  June,  1905. 

3.  Celeste  Elizabeth,  b.  12  June,  1S71;  mar.  24  April,  1S94,  Rev. 
Mr.  John  Curtain  Newcomer;  residence,  Centreville,  Michigan. 
Issue: 

1st.     Mar)-  Louise,  b.  4  Aug.,  1896. 
2nd.     Daniel  Brackett,  b.  18  Aug.,  1898. 
3d.     Lionel  Eastman,  b.  4  Jan.,  1903. 

4.  Ledru  Joshua,  b.  29  Mar.,  1873.     See  family  31. 

5.  Virginia  Edith,  b.  22  May.  1878;  d.  18  July,  1879. 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From    Family    No.    9.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Abraham,  Abraham  D.,  Andrew  T. 

Andrew  T.  Brackett  was  born  August  30,  1839,  in  Sidney,  Me.; 
married  August  21,  1S77,  Annie  Forsyth,  born  Ma;-  3,  1851;  died 
December  6,  1887,  daughter  of  James  and  wife,  Margarette  Russell, 
of  the  province  of  New  Brunswick.  Mr.  Brackett  is  an  engineer; 
served  for  three  months  during  the  civil  war,  stationed  at  fort 
Warren.  His  residence  is  in  Lawrence,  Mass.:  formerly  resided  in 
.Sidney,   Me.,  and  North  Andover,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  James  L.,  b.  7  Aug.,  1878;   resides  in  Lawrence.  Mass. 

2.  Wallace  W.,  b.  7  June,  1881;   resides  in  Lawrence,  Mass. 
'■>.     Walter  S.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1883;   resides  in  Sidney,  Me. 

4.     Annie  F.,  b.  5  Dec,  1887;  resides  in  Lawrence,  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From    Family    No.    9.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Abraham,  Abraham  D.,  Benjamin  F. 

Benjamin  Franklin  Brackett  was  born  January  10,  1S41,  in  Sid- 
ney, Me.;   married  December  9,    1873,   Julia  S.  Tillson,  born  May  7, 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  153 

[849,   daughter  of  Anson  B.,   and  wife,  Rhoda  Sawtelle,  of  Sidney, 
Me.     Is  a  farmer  in  Sidney.     Issue: 
1.     Anson  B.,  b.  9  Mar.,  1S76. 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From    Family    No.    13.      Descent:     Anthony,   Anthony,   Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  Abraham,  Melvin  A. 

Melvin  Abraham  Braekett  was  born  March  20,  1821;  is  deceased; 
married  Mary  Webb  of  Boston.  Children  reside  in  Boston  and  are, 
Melvin  D.;  Henry;  Helen  A.:  Edward;  Carrie. 

FAMILY   NO.    22. 

From    Family    No.    14.      Descent:     Anthony,   Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  Anthony,  Charles  E. 

Charles  Eysander  Braekett  was  born  March  7,  1835,  in  Dedham, 
Mass.;  married  May  — ,  1864,  Frances  Jane  Smith,  born  April  16, 
1841,  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  He  died  May  20,  1884,  in  Brooklyn. 
Issue: 

1.  Robert  Lambert,  b.  10  Mar.,  1865.     See  family  32. 

2.  Charles  Joseph,  b.  4  Sept.,  1867.     See  family  33. 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From    Family    Xo.    14.       Descent:     Anthony,   Anthony,   Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  Anthony,  Alonzo  C. 

Alonzo  Clifford  Bracket!  was  born  May  24,  1844;  he  married 
(  1  st  i  Emma  E.  Lyon.      No  further  record.     Issue: 

1.  Alonzo  Clifford. 

2.  Belle  W. 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 

From    Family    Xo.     15.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S.,  Anthony. 

Anthony  Braekett  was  born  April  27,  1834,  in  Anson,  Me.; 
married  (1st)  September  26,  1854,  Elizabeth  A.  Eawry,  born  No- 
vember 26,  1836;  died  September  24,  1864,  daughter  of  William  and 
wife,  Elizabeth  Thing;  (2nd)  October  6,  1866,  Sylvia  E.  Young, 
born  March  2,  1844;  died  July  4,  1873;  (3d)  Xovember  26,  1878, 
Sophia  E.  Young,  born  September  30,  1857;  died  October  5,  18S2, 
daughter  of  Eevi  and  wife,  Mercy  Collins,  of  Stark,  Me.  Mr. 
Braekett  was  a  blacksmith;  resided  in  Stark,  Eewiston,  and  Anson, 
Me.     He  died  April  1,  1905.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  A.,  b.  12  Feb.,  1856.     See  family  34. 

2.  Eugene   A.,    b.    7   Jan.,    i860;   mar.  4  Xov.,    1885,   Sarah  H. 
Hubbard;   is  in  California. 

3.  Susan  A.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1864;  d.  20  Sept.,  1864. 

4.  Herbert  E-,  b.  15  Xov.,  1871.     See  family  35. 


1  5 i  BRACKETT  GENEALOGY 

FAMILY  NO.  25. 

From    Family    No.    15.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S.,  Thomas  D. 

Thomas  D.  Brackett  was  born  about  1836;  married  (1st)  Abbie 
Danforth,  born  about  1842,  in  Massachusetts;  (2nd)  Susan  Bean. 
The  census  of  1880  shows  Thomas  D.  Brackett  living  in  Stark,  Me.; 
occupation,  a  carpenter;  he  resides  at  Farmington,  Me.  Issue,  as 
shown  by  census  of  1880: 

1.  Hattie  K.,  b.  about  1862. 

2.  O.  R.,  b.  about  1865;  a  son. 
:;.  o.  P.,  b.  about  1868;  a  son. 
4.     E.  C,  b.  about  1872;  a  son. 

.">.     \V.  A.,  b.  about  1S78;   a  daughter. 

FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From    Family    No.    15.     Descent:    Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S.,  James  N. 

James  X.  Brackett  was  born  August  21,  1839,  in  Augusta,  Me.; 
married  October  31,  1866,  Larissa  J.  Whittier,  born  October  6,  1841, 
daughter  of  John  and  wife,  Lydia  Mitchell,  of  Madison,  Me.  Was  a 
ranchman;  he  resided  in  the  following  places  in  the  order  named: 
Augusta,  Madison,  and  Stark,  Me.;  in  Humboldt  co.,  California; 
Dayville,  Canyon  City,  Rock  Creek,  and  Mitchell,  Oregon.  He 
died  August  21,  1887.     Issue: 

1.  George  E.,  b.  2  June,  1869;  d.  19  July,  1883. 

2.  Annie  V.,  b.  24  Feb.,  1872;  residence,  Madison,  Me. 

.'!.     Fannie   S.,   b.   14  Apr.,    1873;  mar.  31    Oct.,    1889,    Allen   C. 
McEachern;  residence,  Mitchell,  Wheeler  co.,  Oregon.     Issue: 
1st.     Charles,  b.  5  Sept.,  1890. 

4.  Gard  W.,  b.  9  Oct.,    1875;  d.  8  Sept.,  1877. 

5.  James  N.,  b.  25  Nov.,  1877;   lives  in  Mitchell,  Oregon. 
<">.     John  W.,  b.  16  Apr.,  1880;  lives  in  Mitchell,  Oregon. 

7.  Ernest  E.,  b.  10  Feb.,  1883;   lives  in  Madison,  Me. 

8.  Leon  G.,  b.  17  Jan.,  1886;  lives  in  Madison,  Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    27. 

From    Family    No.    15.      Descent:   Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S.,  Franklin  W. 

Franklin  W.  Brackett  was  born  April  27,  1843,  in  Madison,  Me.; 
married  February  22,  1866,  Flora  Woodcock,  born  March  3,  1846, 
daughter  of  Mark  and  wife,  Emeline  Gilman,  of  Stark,  Me.  Is  a 
fanner  in  Madison,  Me.;  has  resided  in  Stark,  Me.,  and  in  the  state 
<jf  California.  During  the  Aroostook  boundary  trouble  he  was  major 
in  the  militia.     Issue: 

1.  Augusta,    b.   27    Aug.,    1867;    mar.   Frank    Smith;    residence, 
West  Mills,  Me.      Issue: 

1st.     Ellen. 

2.  Fred  H.,  b.  15  Sept.,  1872.     See  family  36. 

3.  Lydia,  b.  15  Feb.,  1874;  mar.   Gard  Wills;  residence,  Anson, 
Me.      Issue: 

1st.     Hazel. 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  155 

4.  Frances  M.,  b.  25  Jan.,  1871;   mar.   Harrison  Daggett;   resides 
in  Madison,  Me.     Issue:     1st.   Clifford.     2nd.   Ruby.     3d.   Merton. 

5.  Em,  b.   17  Sept.,   1876;    mar.   Fred  Smith;  resides  in  West's 
Mills,  Me.     Issue:     1st.   Carol.     2nd.   Flora. 

6.  Lou,  b.  25  Mar.,   1878;  mar.  Allan  Copp;  resides  in  Madison, 
Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Clyde. 

7.  Evie,  b.   1  June,    1880;    mar.    Sherman    Williams;    resides  in 
Anson,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Elton. 

8.  Frank  L.,  b.  3  Oct.,   1881;  mar.  Sadie  Spear;  resides  in  Madi- 
son, Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Leon. 

9.  Agnes  M.,  b.  3  June,  1884. 

FAMILY    NO.    28. 

From    Family    No.    15.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S.,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  September  10,  1849,  in  Stark,  Me.; 
married  August  14,  1875,  Tina  Oilman,  born  October  6,  1856,  daughter 
of  John  and  wife,  Mary  Ingalls,  of  Anson,  Me.  Mr.  Brackett  is  an 
electrician;  resides  in  Anson,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Eunice  M.,  b.   2  Dec,    1876;    mar.   12  Sept.,    1900,    Evan  N. 
Adams;  resides  in  Anson,  Me. 

2.  Elmer  F.,  b.  n  Apr.,  1881. 

FAMILY   NO.    29. 

From    Family    No.    15.     Descent:    Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S.,  Orlando  H. 

Orlando  H.  Brackett  was  born  in  Stark,  Me.,  on  March  21,  1851; 
married  September  29,  1879,  Kate  S.  Bryant,  b.  November  24,  1856, 
daughter  of  James  and  wife,  Belinda  W.  True,  of  Moultonboro,  New 
Hampshire.     Is  a  farmer  in  Wests  Mills,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Grace  E.,  b.  2  June,  1880. 

2.  Leroy  E.,  b.  20  Sept.,  1897. 


NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.   30. 

From    Family    No.    18.     Descent:    Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  James,  Joshua,  Nathan  C,  James  W. 

James  Wood  Brackett  was  born  June  30,  1867;  married  August  7, 
1889,  Lucy  Estelle  Bean.  He  is  editor  and  publisher  of  The  Maine 
Woods,  an  entertaining  sportsman's  paper.  Resides  in  Phillips, 
Me.     Issue: 

1.  Miriam  Edna,  b.  11  Aug.,  1890. 

2.  James  Scott,  b.  10  June,  1892. 


1 56  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    31. 

From    Family    No.     [8.     Descent:    Anthony.    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  James,  Joshua,  Nathan  C,  D.  Joshua. 
Ledru  Joshua   Brackett  was  born  March  29,    1873,  in  Harper's 
Ferry,   West  Virginia;   married  December  22,    1897,   Anna  Cordelia 
Hicks,  daughter  of  Truman  Band  and  wife,  Augusta  Maria  Beers,  of 
Cheyenne,    Wyoming;   a  publisher;   is  connected  with  Current  His- 
.ind  Modern  Culture,  a  monthly  publication  of  Boston.     Issue: 
l".      Anthony  Hicks,  b.  18  Nov.,  1898. 
'1.      Nathan  Cook,  b.  16  Apr.,  1900. 
."!.     Truman,  b.  4  Feb.,  1906. 

FAMILY  NO.  32. 

From  Family  No.  22.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  Anthony,  Charles  L.,  Robert  L. 
Robert  L.  Brackett  was  born  March  10,  1865,  in  Brooklyn,  New 
York;  married  June  4,  1891,  Caroline  Thomas  White,  born  October  3, 
1867,  in  New  York  city,  daughter  of  Dr.  William  T.  White.  Died 
in  September,  1902;  was  a  bank  clerk;  his  avocation  was  genealogi- 
cal research.     Issue: 

1.  Anthony,  b.  25  March,  1892,  in  Bensonhurst,  N.  Y. 

2.  Robert  White,  b.  17  Nov.,  1893,  in  Bensonhurst,  N.  Y. 

FAMILY  NO.  33. 

From  Family  No.  22.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  Anthony.  Charles  L,.,  Charles  J. 
Charles  Joseph  Brackett  was  born  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  Septem- 
ber 4,  1867;  is  an  attorney- at-law,  in  Helena,  Montana;  married  (1st) 
April  i,  1867,  Frances  Allaire  Smith,  born  April  1,  1867,  died  Decem- 
ber 18,  1899,  daughter  of  Charles  H.  and  wife,  Frances  A.  Duncan, 
of  Brooklyn;  married  (2nd)  Bertha  Anderson,  born  Ma}*  4,  1870, 
daughter  of  Andrew  and  wife,  Sophia  Anderson,  of  Eau  Claire,  Wis., 
later  of  Helena.      Issue: 

1.  Anna  Sibyl,  b.  in  Helena,  19  Jan.,  1892. 

2.  Frances  Allaire,  b.  in  Helena,  9  Aug.,  1894. 

3.  ('.race  Thelma,  b.  in  Helena,  29  Oct.,  1896. 

FAMILY    NO.    34. 

From    Family    No.    24.     Descent:    Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S.,  Anthony,  Charles  A. 

Charles    A.    Brackett   was    born    February     12,     1856;    married 
September  9,  c88o,  Lizzie  J.  Piper;   resides  in  Anson,  Me.     Issue: 
1.      Susan  A.,  b.  7  Dec,  1882. 
Viola  M.,  1).  17  Mar.,  iJ 


Mabel  F.,  b.  21  Sept.,  1885. 
Eugene  A.,  b.  13  Oct.,  1886. 
George  L,.,  b,  16  July,  1890. 
Gladys  A.,  b.  30  Sept.,  1893. 
Lizzie  J.,  b.  3  Mar.,  1898. 
Carl  Y.,  b.  26  Jan.,  1900. 


ABRAHAM,  OF  FALMOUTH  157 


FAMILY  NO.  35. 


From    Family    No.    24.     Descent:    Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S.,  Anthony,  Herbert  L,. 

Herbert    L.    Brackett  was    born    November    15,    1871;    married 
December  2.1,  1889,  Josie  D-  Piper;  he  died  March  27,    1896.     Issue: 

1.  Burton  H.,  b.  29  May,  1891. 

2.  Irene,  b.  2  Oct.,  1895. 


FAMILY   NO.   36. 

From    Family    No.    27.     Descent:    Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Abraham,  Anthony,  James  S.,  Franklin  W.,  Fred  H. 

Fred  H.  Brackett  was  born  September  15,  1872,  in  Stark,  Me.; 
married  March  10,  1893,  Delia  Greenleaf,  born  December  7,  1871, 
died  May  20,  1898,  daughter  of  Wakefield  and  wife,  Ellen  Chapman, 
of  Stark,  Me.     Is  a  farmer  in  Stark,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Harold,  b.  25  Aug.,  1894. 

2.  Maud,  b.  24  Apr.,  1896. 


168  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


DIVISION    NO.   4. 


ANTHONY    BRACKETT,  JR.,  OF   STROUDWATER 
PARISH    AND   HIS    DESCENDANTS. 


FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 

From  Chapter  6.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah,    An- 
thony. Jr. 

Anthony  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  August  25,  1712,  in  Hampton, 
N  .  II.  In  the  records  of  the  First  church  in  Hampton,  is  recorded  his 
baptism  on  August  2,  1719.  In  about  the  seventh  year  of  his  age  his 
father  with  his  family,  removed  to  Falmouth  and  settled  on  the  farm 
bordering  on  Back  cove.  This  farm  had  been  the  residence  of  Cap- 
tain Anthony  Brackett,  the  grandfather  of  Anthony,  Jr.,  and  on  it  the 
latter  spent  his  boyhood  days.  He  was  too  young  to  have  served  in 
[yOvewell's  war  but  he  served  during  the  Indian  war  of  1744-8,  though 
it  is  not  known  of  what  military  company  he  was  a  member.  During 
the  last  Indian  war  in  Maine,  which  commenced  in  1756,  he  served  in 
Captain  Samuel  Shilling's  Stroudwater  company;  his  name  appears 
in  a  list  of  its  members  bearing  date  August  11,  1757. 

He  settled  in  the  Stroudwater  parish  at  an  early  date,  several 
years  before  his  first  marriage. 

It  was  the  misfortune  of  many  of  the  Bracketts  of  old  Falmouth 
to  be  pestered  through  life  with  lawsuits,  seemingly  without  a  termi- 
nation. If  one  did  not  inherit  trouble  of  the  kind,  it  was  his  fate  to 
become  involved  in  vexatious  disputes  about  title  to  land  through 
purchase.  When  about  the  age  of  twenty-four  years,  Anthony,  Jr., 
bought  forty-six  acres  of  land  located  on  the  northerly  side  of  Congress 
street,  Portland,  its  westerly  line  being  about  where  is  Stevens  Plains 
avenue.  On  this  property  he  built  a  two-story  house,  end  to  the 
highway,  in  the  midst  of  the  forest  and  near  a  brook  and  spring;  it 
w  as  located  on  the  easterly  side  of  Stevens  Plains  avenue,  Bradley's 
corner  district.  He  purchased  the  land  of  Colonel  Thomas  West- 
brook  who,  in  1734,  bought  one  hundred  acres,  including  the  tract, 
Ironi  Benjamin  Ingalls  of  North  Yarmouth.  The  title  to  this  land  in 
Ingalls  commenced  with  the  Indian  grant  of  July  27,  1657,  to  Francis 
Small.  However,  as  early  as  1680,  directly  after  the  resettlement  of 
Falmouth  following  its  abandonment  during  the  Indian  war  from 
1675  to  1678,  the  proprietary  colony  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  through 
its  commissioners,  appropriated  and  assumed  to  grant  land,  in  some 
instances  regardless  of  the  claims  of  persons  thereto  whose  title  would 
have  been  indisputable  in  a  court  of  law.  When  Falmouth  was  reset- 
tled in  1 715,  after  the  second  flight,  a  period  of  over  twenty-five  years 
had  elapsed,  of  Indian  occupation.  The  assumption  on  the  part  of 
the  proprietary  colony  to  grant  lands,  though  rightfully  claimed  by 
persons  under  title  of  prior  grants  to  them  or  to  others  from  whom 


ANTHONY,  JR.,  OF  STROUDWATER  159 

they  derived  title,  was  again  exercised,  though  generally  confined  to 
lands  where  title  was  derived  from  the  Indians. 

The  greater  part  of  the  forty-six  acres  purchased  by  Anthony 
was  a  tract,  which  was  claimed  by  the  town  as  public  lands.  It  had 
been  the  subject  of  a  dispute  between  George  Cleeve  and  Francis 
Small,  the  one  claiming  under  a  grant  by  Rigby,  it  is  believed  by  the 
writer,  and  the  other  under  an  Indian  deed;  the  court  sustained  the 
Indian  title,  and  thus  there  was  of  record  a  title  to  the  land  in  Small 
and  his  grantees.  Anthony,  Jr.'s  fate  it  was  to  run  his  neck  into  a 
noose  of  the  proprietor,  by  his  purchase  of  said  forty-six  acres,  and 
in  it  he  struggled  for  nearly  the  remainder  of  his  life.  On  November 
25,  1728,  the  proprietors  of  the  "common  and  undivided  lands  of  Fal- 
mouth" granted  forty  acres  "for  the  ministerial  (parish)  lots"  to  the 
town;  this  grant  included  about  twenty-five  and  one-half  acres  of  the 
land  purchased  by  Anthony.  It  will  serve  our  purpose  to  only  men- 
tion the  legal  proceedings  to  which  Anthony  was  a  party,  involving 
parts  of  his  purchase  of  forty-six  acres,  and  the  result  of  each,  respec- 
tively. In  1764,  a  writ  of  ejectment  was  brought  by  Jeremiah  Riggs 
against  Anthony,  and  a  recovery  of  one  and  one-half  acres  was  made 
by  him.  In  1769,  Anthony  was  indicted  by  the  town  of  Falmouth  for 
fencing  a  strip  of  the  forty-six  acres  "in  the  road,"  and  was  fined  six 
shillings;  on  his  appeal  for  a  jury  trial,  the  verdict  was  sustained.  The 
parish  brought  suit  to  recover  twenty-five  and  one-half  acres,  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Samuel  Dean  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Thomas  Smith  appearing 
for  the  parish.  Anthony,  Jr.,  had  no  Patrick  Henry  to  plead  his 
cause  so,  in  this  instance,  the  clergy  won.  However,  the  same  Rev. 
Mr.  Thomas  Smith,  a  few  years  earlier  in  his  career,  had  a  legal  tilt 
with  another  Anthony  Brackett,  of  Boston,  in  which  the  jury  forgot 
about  considering  the  cloth, — not  being  specially  interested  in  the 
result  of  the  suit,  which  involved  the  title  to  Peak's  Island.  Later 
Anthony,  Jr.,  was  sued  in  trespass  by  the  same  party  for  entering  on 
the  land  between  July,  1769,  and  March  21,  1770,  and  cutting  twenty 
cords  of  maple,  birch,  and  oak  wood,  value  sixty  pounds.  The 
parish  was  successful  in  the  lower  court  and  Anthony,  Jr.,  entered  an 
appeal  from  the  judgment,  with  what  result  has  not  been  learned. 
Fifteen  years  after  the  death  of  Anthony,  Jr.,  his  three  sons  deeded 
their  undivided  four-fifths  of  the  nine  and  one-half  acres  which 
remained  to  their  father,  for  seventy-six  pounds  consideration,  and  on 
December  25,  1795,  seven  years  later,  their  sister,  Abigail,  spinster, 
deeded  the  remaining  one-fifth.  These  sons,  two  of  whom  were  vet- 
eran soldiers,  located  in  Westbrook. 

Little  do  we  know  of  the  characteristics  of  Anthony,  Jr.,  in  addi- 
tion to  those  disclosed  by  the  record  of  his  acts.  It  is  safe  to  venture 
that  determination  of  purpose  was  one.  He  was  gifted  with  broad 
and  liberal  views  as  to  sense  of  duty  imposed  by  one's  relation  in  a 
professional  capacity,  though  the  performance  of  the  duty  was  at  his 
expense.  His  suits  with  the  parish  deprived  him  of  the  earnings  of 
his  lifetime,  yet  he  was  not  alienated  from  his  pastor,  whose  duty  it 
was  to  commence  actions  at  law  against  him.  Under  date  of  Decem- 
ber 9,  1774,  Rev.  Mr.  Dean  recorded  in  his  journal,  "I  prayed  with 
Anthony  Brackett  at  Joshua  Brackett' s."  So,  he  died  at  the  home 
of  his  father-in-law  on  December  9,  1774-  He  was  of  deep  religious 
conviction,  which  found  expression  byword  and  deed.     In   1760,  he 


L60  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

was  one  oi  several  who  proposed  to  a  committee  of  the  First  parish,  to 
enlarge  the  church  building  on  condition  that  they  be  allowed  the 
pews  added  by  the  alteration.  The  parish  tax  he  paid,  which  was  in 
excess  of  twenty  shillings,  shows  that  his  house  was  a  building  of  two 
stories.  He  married  October  17,  1751,  Abigail  Chapman;  she  was 
several  years  younger  than  her  husband  but  did  not  survive  him;  died 
in  December,  [762,  when  her  youngest  son.  Captain  John  Brackett, 
was  in  the  second  year  of  his  age;  was  daughter  of  Edward.  He  was 
born  in  Kitten-,  Me.,  April  14,  1725,  removed  to  near  Saco  Falls  in 
Biddeford  where  he  purchased  a  farm;  here  died  his  wife  Mrs.  Abi- 
gail Broughton,  of  Portsmouth,  whom  he  married  October  20,  1725; 
he  again  married,  and  on  August  19,  1746,  removed  to  Falmouth  and 
dwelt  near  where  the  Union  depot  now  stands;  later  he  went  on  a 
farm  near  the  Buxton  road,  two  miles  westerly  of  Stroudwater.  By 
his  will,  made  in  the  year  1751,  he  bequeathed  to  his  daughter,  Abi- 
gail, wife  of  Anthony  Brackett;  was  son  of  Nathaniel.  He  married 
when  about  the  age  of  forty  years,  in  Ipswich,  Mass..  December 
30,  1674,  Mary  Wilborn;  several  children  were  born  in  Ipswich,  when 
he  removed  to  Kittery;  was  son  of  Edward.  He  was  in  Ipswich  in 
1643,  and  died  there  April  18,  1678.  Anthony  married  August  29, 
1764,  Abigail  Brackett,  daughter  of  Joshua  (Joshua,  Thomas,  An- 
thony) who  at  the  time  was  the  widow  of  Job  Lunt;  she  survived  her 
second  husband  over  thirty  years  and  remained  his  widow;  died  Feb- 
ruary 1,  1805;  her  grave  is  in  the  Eastern  cemetery  in  Portland. 
Issue: 

1.  Jeremiah,  b.  6  Feb.,  1754.      See  family  2. 

2.  Daniel,  b.  27  Apr.,  1728;  never  mar.;  was  living  in  1815. 
.'J.     John.  b.  11  Apr.,  1761.      See  family  3. 

4.     Abigail,  b.  —  Feb.,  1766;  mar.  in  1797,  Daniel  Green  of  Port- 
land;  d.  12  Jan.,  1835.      Issue: 
1st.     Sarah,  b.  28  July,  1799. 
2nd.     A  child,  b.  3  Jan.,  1802. 
3d.     Abigail  Brackett,  b.  12  Oct.,  1809. 


SIXTH    GENERATION 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From    Family    No.     1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah. 

Jeremiah  Brackett  was  born  in  Falmouth,  Me.,  February  6,  1754: 
was  baptized  in  1755,  at  the  First  church.  He  was  reared  on  his 
father's  farm,  the  subject  of  so  many  legal  battles.  In  the  twenty- 
id  year  of  his  age  he  was  married,  May  17,  1775,  to  Sarah  Good- 
ing. He  probably  dwelt  in  Falmouth  until  the  close  of  the  War  of 
the  Revolution,  as  he  enlisted  from  that  town.  In  1791,  he  resided  on 
his  farm  in  North  Yarmouth  in  that  part  which,  in  1825,  was  included 
in  the  present  town  of  Cumberland.  The  censuses  of  1790,  1800, 
[810,  and  1820  show  that  he  was  a  resident  of  North  Yarmouth. 
His  name  is  not  found  in  the  census  of  1830;  he  probably  died  before 
that  year.  All  of  his  family,  five  sons  and  three  daughters,  with  the 
ption  of  the  eldest  son,  continued  to  make  their  home  with  him 


ANTHONY,     OF     STROUDWATER 


161 


\_ 


r 


ki  k 
-J  ^ 

kj  <0 


5 
vl 


<0 

vj  in 
<v> 


V 


v 


r 


La 


1 

k 

s 

Cb 

£ 

^0 

Or 

$ 

k    w 

£ 
£ 
£ 

Or  § 

O    H} 

4 

n 

<o 

k 

* 

V 

ki 
ki 

II 

£ 

1 

<0 

5 

k     ! 

1     § 

5 

k!      0; 

k 

V 

k 

ki   o 

t 

^  * 

0} 

vl 

k  x 

Q.    k| 

S 

^     vl 

* 

to* 

>4 
3 

I 

ft 

<0 

vi 
< 

vl 

* 
S 

flfc 

CO 

vj 

vl 

vl 

k  v 

<v    ki 

^ 

vl 

v. 

^      v| 

3§ 

1 

S 

0   $ 

1 

8 
<• 

vl 

N 

V 

> 

^ 

* 

\* 

•J 

.^ 

* 

k 

<0 

o 

vl 

S£ 

t 

S* 

<u 

< 

<Q 

1 

^1 

vl 

to 

5 

^    C/J 


k    <d 


51 


^ 


kj  Q; 


PLAT   OF   FIRST   CHURCH   OF   FALMOUTH,    1 763 


162  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

until  his  death.  None  of  his  daughters  were  married,  and  one  of  his 
sons  remained  single.  This  son,  John,  and  the  daughter,  Mary  or 
Molly,  continued  to  live  in  Cumberland  on  the  farm  of  Jeremiah  until 
their  decease.  The  farm  is  in  the  center  of  the  northerly  part  of 
Cumberland,  not  far  from  the  town  line.  The  grave  of  Jeremiah  and 
that  oi  his  wife  are  in  the  Methodist  churchyard  of  that  region. 

Jeremiah  Brackett  served  as  a  private  in  Captan  John  Brackett's 
company,  Colonel  Edmund  Phinney's  regiment;  name  on  billeting  rolls 
from  date  of  enlistment,  May  12,  1775,  to  July  5,  1775,  date  of  march- 
ing to  headquarters;  marched  from  Falmouth;  received  order  dated 
October  24,  1775,  at  fort  No.  2,  Cambridge,  for  bounty  coat  or  its 
equivalent  in  money;  name  appears  on  company  returns,  dated  Sep- 
tember 2,9,  1  775;  probable  term  of  sendee,  nearly  six  months.  Served 
as  a  private  in  Captain  Tobias  Ford's  company;  enlisted  April  1. 
1770.  discharged  November  25,  1776,  seven  months  and  twenty-five 
davs.  stationed  at  Falmouth.  Served  in  Captain  Jesse  Partridge's 
company;  Colonel  Greaton's  regiment;  enlisted  April  1,  1778,  dis- 
charged November  30,  1778,  eight  months  at  North  river  with  Fal- 
mouth volunteers.  Served  in  Captain  Peter  Warren's  company, 
Colonel  Jonathan  Mitchel's  regiment;  detached  July  7,  1779,  dis- 
charged September  25,  1779,  two  months  and  eighteen  days,  marched 
on  expedition  against  Penobscot.  Also  served  as  corporal  in  Cap- 
tain Joseph  Pride's  company,  joined  October  1,  1779,  discharged 
October  23,  1779,  at  liastward,  detachment  from  Cumberland  county 
militia   under  command  of  Nathaniel  Jordan,  Esq.      Issue: 

1.  Reuben,  b.  28  Sept.,  1779.     See  family  4. 

2.  John,  b.  14  June,  1781;  never  married;   cl.  11  Aug.,  1863. 

3.  Abigail,  b.  13  Oct.,  1782;   never  married. 

4.  William,  b.  22  Feb.,  1785.     See  family  5. 

5.  Anna,  b.  twin  with  William. 

6.  Molly,  b.  26  Aug.,  1790;  never  married;   d.  22  Mar.,  1874. 

7.  Anthony,  b.  9  Dec,  1796.     See  family  6. 

s.      Nathaniel,  b.  30  June,  1798.     See  family  7. 
*.>.      Susan,  b.   10  Apr.,  1802;   never  married. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From    Family    No.     1.     Descent:     Anthony,     Anthony,     Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,   John. 

Captain  John  Brackett,  the  youngest  son  of  Anthony,  Jr.,  and 
wile,  Abigail  Chapman,  was  born  in  Falmouth,  Me.,  April  11,  1761. 
lit  was  thirteen  years  old  when  his  father  died,  and  had  but  shortly 
completed  his  fourteenth  year  when  the  battle  of  Lexington  was 
fought.  With  his  brother  in  the  army,  this  orphan  boy  did  not  allow 
an  opportunity  to  pass  which  would  place  him  in  the  ranks  where  so 
many  of  his  kindred  were  nobly  doing  their  duty,  without  availing  him- 
S-lf  of  it.  When  he  arrived  at  military  age,  he  at  once  enlisted.  It  was 
not  alone  the  need  of  aid  on  the  part  of  the  united  colonies  to  which 
he  responded;  the  contest  had  been  practically  won  by  them  when  he 
enlisted:  it  was  patriotic  fervor  which  prompted  him  to  proffer  his 
services  to  retain  what  had  been  gained.  He  enlisted  in  Captain 
Daniel  Punt's  company,  Colonel  Benjamin  Tupper's  regiment,  of  the 
Continental    Regulars,    the   Tenth   Massachusetts  of  the    Pine,    Jan- 


ANTHONY,     JR.,    OF     STROUDWATER  163 

uary  i,  1781,  was  transferred  to  Capt.  William's  company,  Col. 
Joseph  Vose's  regiment,  and  was  discharged  at  West  Point,  December 
25,  1783.  He  was  in  the  field  when  the  "la<5t  armed  foe"  had  left  our 
shores. 

In  1787,  he  and  his  brothers  sold  their  shares  of  the  portion  of 
their  father's  farm  which  they  inherited,  and  subsequently  he  pur- 
chased another  farm  in  that  town.  He  continued  to  reside  in  Fal- 
mouth until  1 81 1,  when  he  traded  his  farm  to  John  Lowell  for  another 
in  the  town  of  Harrison,  Me.,  where  he  resided  the  remainder  of  his 
days.  At  the  time  of  the  trade  the  value  of  the  farm  in  Harrison  was 
stated  to  be  $2,500,  and  it  contained  nearly  twice  as  many  acres  as 
did  the  farm  in  Falmouth. 

In  a  letter  under  date  of  February  28,  1888,  Rev.  Mr.  Silas 
Brackett,  now  deceased,  then  residing  in  Chicago,  111.,  who  was  a 
grandson  of  John  Brackett,  stated — 

"The  last  time  I  saw  the  house  from  which  my  grandparents 
removed  to  the  town  of  Harrison,  it  was  then  in  good  repair;  it  stood 
in  the  present  town  of  Westbrook  and  in  it  all  of  their  children  were 
born.  When  they  lived  there  the  farm  was  in  Falmouth.  Imme- 
diately after  the  Revolutionary  war,  John  Brackett  was  commis- 
sioned captain  of  a  company  of  militia  and  ever  after  was  called  Cap- 
tain Brackett." 

The  Rev.  Mr.  Silas  Brackett  wrote  further  concerning  his  grand- 
father— 

"He  died  shouting  'victory  over  death;'  that  through  Christ 
Jesus  he  was  a  couquerer,  and  saying,  'Yes,  I  shall  see  him;  then  I 
will  not  be  lame  and  gray;  1  will  be  young  as  when  a  worldly  soldier 
boy.'  ' ' 

John  Brackett  was  a  pensioner.  In  his  statement  made  in  1820, 
in  his  claim  for  pension,  are  set  forth  particulars  of  interest  to  his 
descendants.  Here  is  found  a  fair  description  of  his  farm  in  Harrison. 
He  set  forth  that  he  owned  one  hundred  acres,  cold,  wet  and  not 
good  for  agricultural  purposes,  small  house  and  barn  on  same;  five 
cows,  four  steers,  four  yearlings,  fourteen  sheep,  one  horse,  two  pigs 
and  some  farming  tools;  that  he  was  unable  to  pursue  his  occupation 
because  of  disability  from  a  very  lame  and  broken  leg;  that  his  wife 
was  fifty-five  vears  old,  was  very  feeble,  and  had  been  for  twenty 
years;  that  with  him  resided  his  daughter  Elizabeth,  aged  twenty- 
one  years,  lame  and  feeble;  his  son  John,  aged  fifteen  years,  who  was 
able  to  work;  and  his  son  Chapman,  aged  twelve  years,  who  was  able  to 
work  very  little.  When  lie  made  this  application  for  pension,  he  was 
fifty-nine  years  old.  He  wrote  at  that  age  a  very  fair,  legible  hand. 
The  claim  was  made  under  the  act  of  1818,  whose  benefits  were  limited 
to  soldiers  or  their  widows  who  had  but  little  of  this  world's  goods; 
hence,  the  statement  in  the  claim  as  to  his  possessions  and  as  to  the 
number  dependent  upon  him.  The  •  claim  was  rejected  upon  the 
ground,  in  effect  that  he  was  not  so  poor  as  to  have  title  to  pension 
under  the  act.  In  later  years,  he  filed  an  application  for  pension 
under  the  more  liberal  act  of  1831,  under  whose  provisions  he  was 
allowed  pension.  It  was  paid  to  him  in  Portland  where  he  went  to 
receive  it.  He  lived  about  thirty-seven  miles  from  the  city  and  could 
not  make  the  journey  in  less  than  two  days;  while  making  it  he 
would  spend  the  night  in  Portland  at  the  home  of  his  half-sister, 
Abigail,  who  married  Daniel  Green,  and  whom  he  called  Nabby. 


1CI  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

The  censuses  of  1790,  1800,  and  1810  show  John  Brackett  a  resi- 
dent of  Falmouth;  the  census  of  1820  places  him  in  Harrison.  His 
name  does  not  appear  in  the  censuses  of  1830  and  1840,  as  he  probably 
lived  with  his  son,  Walker  Brackett,  from  prior  to  1830,  and  was 
enumerated  as  a  member  of  his  family.  In  censuses  before  1850,  the 
name  of  only  one  person  of  all  residing  in  a  house  is  given — that  of  the 
owner  of  the  house  or  the  head  of  the  family.  He  died  February  22, 
[844,  in  Harris,.n.  Married  Mary  Walker;  she  was  born  August  11, 
170s,  died  September  18,  1843,  was  a  daughter  of  George  Walker 
who  resided  between  Pride's  bridge  and  Duck  pond  in  Westbrook. 
Issue: 

1.  George,  b.  26  Sept.,  1787;  d.  unmar.  21  Oct.,  1S14. 

2.  William,  b.  25  Aug.,  1789.      See  family  8. 

3.  Abigail,  b.  12  Sept.,  1791;  mar.  Alex.  Lowell.     Shed.  18  Jan., 
[816. 

4.  Enoch,  b.  27  July,  1793.     See  family  9. 

5.  Walker,  b.  7  Apr.,  1796.      See  family  10. 

6.  Elizabeth,  b.  2  Dec,  1799;   mar.  27  Jan.,  1824,  John  P.  Lowell 
of  Harrison,  Me.     She  died  in  1885. 

7.  John,  Jr.,  b.  2  June,  1804.      See  family   n. 

8.  Chapman,  b.  21  Aug.,  1808.     See  family  12. 


SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    4. 

Prom     Family    No.     2.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Reuben. 

Reuben  Brackett  was  born  September  28,  1779,  in  that  part  of 
tin  ]. recent  town  of  Cumberland,  Me.,  which  to  1825  was  a  part  of  the 
town  of  North  Yarmouth,  and  there  passed  his  boyhood.  About  the 
time  of  his  marriage  he  removed  to  Westbrook,  Me.,  was  living  there 
as  early  as  [810  and  there  dwelt  the  remainder  of  his  life.  He  mar- 
ried Elizabeth  Morrill,  and  came  into  possession  of  her  father's  farm 
in  Westbrook  on  which  he  resided;  the  farm  is  on  the  road  from  Sac- 
carappa  to  Piscataqua  near  the  Falmouth  town  line,  not  far  from  the 
Presumpscot  river.  The  house  was  burned  during  recent  years;  it 
stood  at  the  easterly  end  of  the  barn;  at  the  time  it  was  burned  the 
farm  was  owned  by  Mr.  Lionel  O.  Brackett  who  built  a  house  at  the 
easterly  end  of  the  barn.  The  censuses  from  1810  to  1840  inclusive 
show  Reuben  Brackett  a  resident  of  Westbrook,  in  which  town  he  died 
June  21,  1848.  His  wife  died  June  2,  i860,  in  the  seventy-ninth  year 
oi  her  age,  was  a  daughter  of  Thomas  Morrill  and  wife,  Margaret 
Huston,  ol  Westbrook.      Issue,  all  born  in  Westbrook: 

1.  Alma  Maria,  b.  23  Sept.,  1805;  mar.  in  April,  1833,  Jonas 
Jordan,  son  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Rachel  Humphrey,  of  Raymond, 
Me.  He  wash,  it  Nov.,  1804,  and  d.  in  July,  1875;  business  was 
lumbering  and  farming;  lived  in  Poland.  She  d.  in  Apr.,  1879,  in 
the  74th  year  of  her  age.     Issue: 

1st.  Samuel,  b.  23  Feb.,  1836;  d.  23  Aug.,  1865;  a  graduate  of 
Bowdoin  college,  class  of  1861;  assistant  paymaster  in  the  United 
States  Navy  at  the  time  of  his  death. 


ANTHONY,  JR.,  OF  STROUDWATER  165 

2nd.  Reuben  B.,  b.  20  Mar.,  1837,  mar.  in  1869,  Fannie  Hig- 
gins;   d.  24  Feb..  1899.     Was  a  physician.     Issue: 

I.  Susie  Maw 

II.  Reuben  Morrill. 

3d.     Fliza  B..  b.  19  Dec,  1838;  d.  9  May,  1S49. 

4th.  Sarah  W.,  b.  3  Dec.,  1840;  mar.  3  Dec,  1868,  John  McLel- 
lan  who  served  as  a  captain  in  the  civil  war,  186 1-5.  He  was 
b.  2  June.  1839,  a  son  of  William  and  wife,  Margaret  Davis,  of  Ray- 
mond, Me.;  his  business,  corn  packing;  residence,  South  Windham, 
Me.     Their  adopted  children: 

I.  Lizzie  R.,  b.  7  Mar.,    1870;  mar.  C.  O.  Libby  and  resides 
in  Boston. 

II.  William  J.,  b.  9  Feb.,  1872;  resides  in  Boston. 

III.  Margaret  W.,   b.    14  Apr.,    1875;   mar.   R.   S.   Williams 
and  resides  in  Philadelphia. 

5th.     Margaret   M.,    b.    9    Nov.,    1842;     mar.    in    1870,    Charles 
Sawyer,  and  resides  in  Auburn,  Me.     Issue: 
I.     Alma  Sawyer. 

6th.  Susan  M.,  b.  5  Aug.,  1844;  mar.  in  1887,  J.  J.  Grant. 
She  is  a  graduate  of  Salem  Normal  school  and  for  15  years  taught 
school  in  New  York  city.     Residence,  East  Steuben,  Me. 

2.  William  P.,  b.  27  Feb.,  1808.     See  family  13. 

3.  Jeremiah  C,  b.  10  Sept.,  1809.     See  family  14. 

4.  Jacob  Morrill,  b.  ;  he  died  young. 

5.  Stephen  M.,  b.  3  Dec,  181 2.     See  family  15. 

6.  Margaret  Elizabeth,  b.  28  Dec,  1816;  mar.  Jeremiah  Webber, 
son  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Paulina  Blaisdell,  of  Sidney,  Me.;  he  was  b. 
25  Jan.,  1809,  and  d.  22  Feb.,  1893.     She  d.  28  July,  1861.     Issue: 

1st.     Jacob  B.,  b.  23  Aug.,  1836;  d.  9  Sept.,  1863. 

2nd.     Asa  W.,  b.  2  Sept.,  1838;  d.  8  May,  1864. 

3d.  Margaret  E.,  b.  11  Aug.,  1845;  mar.  5  Mar.,  1868,  Perez 
Gray  Drinkwater,  a  sou  of  Rotheus  and  wife,  Lucy  Dane,  of  Yar- 
mouth, Me.;  he  was  b.  15  July,  1842,  and  d.  13  Feb.,  1888;  he  was  a 
mariner.       Mrs.  Drinkwater  resides  in  Boston.     Issue: 

I.  Alice   H.,    b.    8  June,    1869;  mar.    5   Apr.,    1893,   W.   A. 
Merow;  residence,  East  Lexington,  Mass. 

II.  Francis  N.,  b.  13  Nov.,  1872;  d.  11  Dec,  1894. 

III.  Rotheus  G..  b.  11  Feb.,  1875. 

IV.  Harry  W.,  b.  16  Apr.,  1881. 

4th.     Reuben  B.,  b.  20  Sept.,  1850;  resides  in  Rockland,  Me. 

5th.     Jerry,  b.  12  May,  1852;  resides  in  Seabright,  N.  J. 

6th.  Alice  B.,  b.  10  Dec,  1854;  mar.  William  A.  Winslow; 
they  reside  in  East  North  Yarmouth,  Me. 

"  7th.  Ezra  T.,  b.  29  May,  1858;  mar.  8  Oct.,  1881,  Mary  M. 
Clark,  dau.  of  Emory  D.,  and  wife,  Emma  F.  Gray,  of  North  Vas- 
salboro,  Me.;  she  was  b.  11  Dec,  1864.  He  wasb.  in  Freeport,  Me., 
and  has  lived  in  North  Yassalboro,  Me.;  Providence,  R.  I.;  Haver- 
hill, Mass.;  Bath,  Me.;  now  resides  in  North  Vassalboro  and  is  a 
machinist.     Issue: 

I.  Ezra  Gray,  b.  7  Apr.,  1888. 

II.  George  Hawes,  b.  21  Sept.,  1897. 

The  data  as  to  family  of  Margaret  E.  Webber,  was  supplied  by 
Mrs.  Drinkwater. 


L66  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

7.  Sarah  J.,  b.  in  1818;  mar.  Ezra  Thombs  of  Gorham,  Me.  She 
is  dec.      Issue: 

1st.      Samuel  B.,  a  physician  in  Portland,  Me. 
2nd.      Llewellyn  T..  of  Gorham.  Me. 

S.      Samuel  M..  b.  2  Mar.,  1820.     See  family  16. 

9.  Reuben  G..  b.  twin  with  Samuel  M.;  mar.  in  Westbrook,  Me., 
24  Mar..   [842,  Arvilla  Leighton;   no  further  record. 

1<>.  Esther  Plummer,  b.  1821;  lived  with  her  brother  Jeremiah, 
and  never  married.      She  d.  2  June,  1885. 

11.  Mary  A.,  b.  -  — ,  1823;  lived  with  her  brother  Jeremiah,  and 
never  married:  d.  2  Oct.,  1884. 

1L'.  Lionel  (>.,  b.  24  Dee.,  1827;  resided  on  his  father's  farm  in 
Westbrook,  Me.,  until  his  death  which  occurred  19  Jan.,  1902.  Dur- 
ing the  Last  years  of  his  life  he  was  afflicted  with  paralysis.  He  mar- 
ried [6  Jan.,  1S70.  Adrianna  F.  Sherman,  dau.  of  Joseph  and  wife, 
Julia  (J.  Hutchings.  She  was  born  15  Jan.,  1848.  Issue: 
l^t.      Grace  Leona,  b.  22  Feb.,  1872. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From     Family    Xo.     2.     Descent:      Anthony,     Anthony.     Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah.  William. 

William  Brackett  was  born  February  22,  1785,  in  that  part  of 
North  Yarmouth  now  a  part  of  the  town  of  Cumberland;  removed  to 
Harrison.  Me.,  prior  to  1830,  on  a  farm  where  he  lived  continuously 
until  his  death  in  September,  1856;  married  in  August,  1825,  Hannah 
Morse,  born  in  August,  17S4.  died  in  July,  1879,  daughter  of  Joseph 
Morse   of   Harrison.      Issue: 

1.  Jeremiah,  b.  19  Mar.,  1826;  is  a  farmer  in  Harrison;  mar.  1 
June.  [861,  Lucy  Oliver,  who  d.  9  Aug.,  1863,  dau.  of  William  and 
wife.  Martha  Keene,  of  Oxford,  Me.      Xo  issue. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From     Family     Xo.    2.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 

Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Anthony. 

Anthony  Brackett  was  born  December  9,  1796,  in  that  part  of  the 
town  ol  North  Yarmouth  which,  in  1825,  was  incorporated  within  the 
limits  of  the  present  town  of  Cumberland.  He  continued  to  reside 
there  until  about  the  time  of  his  marriage  when  he  removed  to 
Sebago  Lake  on  a  farm,  where  he  lived  until  his  death  February  20, 
[877;  married  November  24,  1824,  Eunice  Estes,  born  September  5, 
1703,  died  March  4,  1878,  daughter  of  Robert  and  wife,  Dorcas  Ches- 
ley.      Issue: 

1-     Daniel  G.,  b.  9  Feb.,  1826.     See  family  17. 

1'.      Albert,  b.  9  May.   [829;   d.  unmar.  28  Oct.,  1854. 

:;.     Abigail,  b.  14  Jan.,  1833;  d.  2  Oct.,  1834. 

FAMILY   NO.    7. 

From    Family    Xo.    2.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Xathaniel. 
Nathaniel  Brackett  was  born  June  30,  1798,  in  that  part  of  Xorth 
Yarmouth  which,  in  1825,  was  incorporated  within  the  limits  of  the 


ANTHONY,    JR.,    OF    STROUDWATER  167 

present  town  of  Cumberland,  Me.,  where  he  continued  to  reside  with 
his  father  until  his  marriage.  From  there  he  went  to  Sebago  Lake 
where  he  lived  for  the  remainder  of  his  days  engaged  in  farming. 
He,  like  his  four  brothers,  was  born,  raised,  lived  and  died  in  Cum- 
berland county,  as  did  their  ancestors  for  over  a  hundred  years  prior 
to  their  day.  He  married  Maria  Mabry  of  Windham,  daughter  of 
Thomas  and  wife,  Catharine  Goodwin,  born  in  May,  1804,  and  died 
July  17,  1862.  He  died  August  31,  1863,  in  the  sixty-sixth  yearof 
his  age.     Issue: 

1.  Elbridge,  b.  26  Mar.,  1824;   never  mar.;  d.  in  1901. 

2.  John,  b.  30  Dec,  1825.     See  family  18. 

3.  Catherine,  b.  26  Oct.,  1827;  never  mar.;  she  d.  20  Apr.,  1863. 

4.  Lendal  S.,  b.  20  Aug.,  1831.     See  family  19. 

5.  Sarah  J.,  b.  30  May,  1836;  never  mar.;  d.  3  Feb.,  1904. 

6.  Charles,  b.  11  Feb.,  1838.     See  family  20. 

FAMILY   NO.    8. 

From    Family    Xo.    3.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  William. 

William  Brackett  was  born  August  25,  1789,  in  Westbrook,  Me., 
then  a  part  of  the  town  of  Falmouth.  With  his  father  he  went  to  the 
town  of  Harrison,  Me.,  where  he  resided  for  many  years.  The 
several  censuses  from  1820  to  i860,  inclusive,  show  him  continuously 
a  resident  of  that  town,  and  engaged  in  farming  and  shoe  making. 
He  married  October  1 ,  181 1 ,  Sarah  Hobbs,  a  daughter  of  Jonathan 
Hobbs;  she  was  born  July  6,  1792,  and  died  July  31,  1856.  After 
his  wife's  death,  William  Braekett  returned  to  Westbrook  and  resided 
with  his  daughter,  Lucretia,  the  wife  of  Moses  Cobb.  He  served  in 
the  war  of  1812  for  a  short  time.  His  death  occurred  February  7, 
[865.     Issue: 

1.  Daniel  H.,  b.  3  June,  1813.     See  family  21. 

2.  Mary,  b.  5  July,  1814;  mar.  James  Fogg;  they  lived  in  Gor- 
ham,  Me.;  shed.  28  Mar.,  1878.     Issue: 

1st.     Francena. 

2nd.     Bertha.     All  are  dead. 

3.  Sibyl  S.,  b.  23  July,  1816;  mar.  George  Parsons;  they  lived 
in  Harrison;  she  d.  7  Sept.,  1868. 

4.  George  W.,  b.  6  May,  1818.     See  family  22. 

5.  Fouis  P.,  b.  26  Nov.,  1819;  mar.  William  Perley  of  Harrison; 
she  d.  10  Nov.,  1897.     Issue: 

1st.     George,  b.  in  Sept.,  1844;  resides  in  Blaine,  Washington. 
2nd.     Charles,  b.  in  1846;  resides  in  Blaine,  Washington. 

6.  Jonathan  Hobbs,  b.  19  Feb.,  1821;  resides  in  East  North  Yar- 
mouth, Me.,  and  has  resided  in  Harrison,  Norway,  and  Yarmouth, 
Me.;  is  a  farmer  and  mechanic;  mar.  14  Sept.,  1843,  Elizabeth  Ann 
Bennett,  b.  7  Apr.,  1822;  d.  9  Apr.,  1S84;  she  wras  a  dau.  of  William 
and  wife,  Hannah  Day,  of  Freeport,  Me.     No  children. 

7.  Sarah,  b.  14  Apr.,  1822;  mar.  Artemas  Mason,  of  West  Bethel, 
Me.;  she  d.  in  1895.     Issue: 

1st.     Delia,   mar.  Charles  C.  Merrill. 

2nd.     Cora,   mar.  Bean;  resides  in  South  Paris,  Me. 

3d.     Oscar,  resides  in  Bethel,  Me. 


1G8  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

8.  Ann  M.,  b.  26  Sept.,  1823,  in  Harrison,  Me.;  d.  26  Sept., 
1904;  mar.  10  Apr.,  1853,  Woodsom  Mason,  b.  20  Dec.,  1818,  d.  14 
Mar.,  1897,  son  of  Silvanus  and  wife,  Lydia  Scribner;  was  a  farmer; 
mar.  in  Bethel,  where  they  lived  until  187-;  removed  to  Westbrook, 
and  in  [887  to  Pomona,  Cal.,  where  both  are  buried.     Issue: 

1st.  Sadie,  b.  19  Nov.,  1855;  mar.  30  July,  1881,  Dr.  Frank  B. 
Tuell;  resides  in  Bethel.     Issue: 

I.  Ella  Mildred,  b.  11  Sept.,  1883. 

II.  Gilbert  Woodsum,  b.  9  Aug.,  1884. 

III.  Charles,  b.  27  Oct.,  1893. 

2nd.  Annie,  b.  5  June,  1857;  mar.  4  June,  1881,  Charles  S. 
Johnson;   home,  in  Pomona,  Cal. 

3d.     Winnefred,  b.  22  Sept.,    1858;    mar.  30  July,  188 1,  William 
H.  Thomas;   home,  in  Providence,  R.  I.     Issue: 
I.     George  Thomas,  b.  20  Dec,  1883. 

4th.     Herbert,  b.  3  Oct.,  1859;   d.  in  infancy. 

5th.     Freddy,  b.  6  Feb.,  1861;  d.  in  infancy. 

6th.  Charles,  b.  29  Mar.,  1865;  mar.  24  Nov.,  1898,  Alma 
Weber;  home,  in  Los  Angeles,  Cal.     Issue: 

I.  Curtis  Woodsum,  b.  10  Aug.,  1899. 

II.  George  Malcolm,  b.  22  July,  1901. 

III.  Donald  Robert,  b.  22  July,  1903. 

IV.  Bessie  Ellen,  b.  5  Jan.,  1906. 

7th.     Bessie,  b.  13  Nov.,  1870;  home,  in  Pomona,  Cal. 

9.  Ducretia,  b.  7  Apr.,  1826;  mar.  Moses  Knight  Cobb  of  West- 
brook,  Me.;  he  has  lived  in  Westbrook  on  a  farm  for  50  years;  was 
b.  10  Aug.,  1822,  son  of  James  and  wife,  Dorcas  Knight.  Shed. 
16  Apr.,  1882.     Issue: 

1st.  William  Brackett,  of  Cleveland,  Ohio,  b.  29  Mar.,  1859,  in 
Westbrook,  Me.;  has  resided  in  Boston,  and  Providence,  R.  I.;  is 
proprietor  of  a  machine  shop  at  Nos.  51  and  53  Vermont  St.,  Cleve- 
land; mar.  12  Mar.,  1890,  Annie  Denius,  b.  6  Oct.,  1867,  dau.  of 
William  H.  and  wife,  Thurza  Webber,  of  Devonshire,  Eng.  Issue: 
I.     Eugene  Webber  Cobb,  b.  7  Feb.,  1891. 

2nd.  George  Moses,  b.  11  May,  i860;  mar.  Jennie  Little; 
resides  in  Westbrook,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  George. 

II.  Mildred. 

3d.  Leander  Barker,  b.  2  Feb.,  1863;  mar.  Julia  S.  Little. 
Business  address,  380  Atlantic  Ave.,  Boston;  resides  in  Melrose 
Highlands. 

10.  Ellen  D.,  b.  20  Feb.,  1830;  mar.  Leander  Barker  of  West- 
brook, who  for  over  20  years  was  town  clerk;  she  d.  16  Sept.,  1891. 
No  issue. 

11.  C.  Emeline,  b.  22  Dec,  1833;  mar.  Samuel  Dunn  of  Bethel. 
During  her  later  years  she  resided  in  Washington,  D.  C;  she  d. 
26  Oct.,  1899.     No  issue. 

FAMILY   NO.   9. 
From    Family    No.    3.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Captain  John,  Enoch. 
Enoch  Brackett  lived  from  an  early  date  in  his   life    until   his 
death,  in  Harrison,  Me.     He  was  a  farmer  and  accumulated  a  large 


ANTHONY,  JR.,  OF  STROUDWATER  169 

property;  his  farm  was  near  Bolster's  mill  at  a  place  known  as 
Brackett's  corner.  He  was  somewhat  eccentric  in  habits;  a  good 
business  manager;  could  reckon  interest  by  a  method  of  counting  his 
fingers,  as  quickly  as  most  persons  can  by  the  common  process, 
although  he  was  a  poor  hand  at  reading  and  other  elementary 
branches.  Was  born  July  27,  1793,  in  Westbrook,  then  a  part  of 
Falmouth.  Married  September  21,  1818,  Armintha  Caswell,  of  Har- 
rison; died  October  16,  1871.     Issue: 

1.  Eliza,  b.  27  Dec,  1819;  is  dec;   mar.  Amos  Small. 

2.  Edna;  is  dec;  mar.  David  Sawyer. 

3.  Joseph  L.,  b.  1  Nov.,  1821.     See  family  23. 

4.  Fannie  L.,  b.  28  Jan.,  1823;  mar.  David  Sawyer  of  West- 
brook,  b.  24  Nov.,  1816;  lived  in  Westbrook.  Issue:  1st.  David  E., 
b.  21  Nov.,  1 841.  2nd.  George  L.  3d.  Elizabeth.  4th.  Sarah  D. 
5th.  Mary  D.  6th.  Millard.  7th.  John  R.,  who  lives  on  the  farm 
which  was  his  father's.     8th.   Angelia,  b.  16  Jan.,  1863. 

5.  Lewis  G.,  b.  in  Nov.,  1833.     See  family  24. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From    Family    No.    3.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Walker. 

Walker  Brackett  was  born  April  7,  1796,  in  that  part  of  West- 
brook formerly  a  part  of  Falmouth,  Me.  He  moved  with  his  father, 
in  181 1,  to  Harrison,  Me.,  and  lived  on  his  father's  farm  in  that  town. 
In  1850,  he  was  a  farmer,  a  resident  of  Mason,  then  in  Oxford 
county,  Me.  He  married  Calesta  Wight,  born  October  26,  1794, 
died  February  19,  1875,  daughter  of  Joseph,  son  of  Jonathan,  son  of 
Jonathan,  son  of  Henry,  son  of  Thomas  Wight,  the  immigrant;  her 
mother's  maiden  name  was  Olive  Mann  of  Otisfield  (see  Wight 
Genealogy).  Walker  Brackett  died  October  16,  1871.  Issue,  all 
born  in  Maine: 

1.  Silas  B.,  b.  11  Nov.,  1818.     See  family  25. 

2.  Polly  Walker,  b.  15  Aug.,  1820;  mar.  23  May,  1844,  Seth 
Pike,  of  Norway;  she  d.  in  June,  1895. 

3.  Nancy  Caldwell,  b.  19  Nov.,  1822;  mar.  7  Nov.,  1844,  Alfred 
Noyes. 

4.  Walker,  Jr..  b.  24  Nov.,  1824.     See  family  26. 

5.  Pvoxy  Ann,  b.  27  Feb.,  1827;  d.  30  June,  1842. 

6.  Harriet  Wight,  b.  11  June,  1829;  mar.  8  Nov.,  1849,  Tristam 
Noyes  of  Harrison, 

7.  Elbridge  O.,  b.  4  Oct.,  1830.     See  family  27. 

8.  Betsev  Walker,  b.  20  May,  1833;  mar.  O'Niel  R.  Mills  of 
Bethel. 

9.  Charles  Henry,  b.  24  Feb.,  1836.     See  family  28. 

10.  Sophrona  Spurr,  b.  23  May,  1840;  mar.  (1st)  Robert  S. 
Lamb;  (2nd)  George  Shad  of  Norway,  Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From    Family    No.    3.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  John,  Jr. 
John  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  June  2,  1804,   in  that  part  of  Fal- 
mouth now  part  of  Westbrook,  Me.     When  he  was  seven  years  of 


170  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

age  his  father  moved  to  Harrison,  Me.,  where  he  lived,  at  Caswell's 
corners,  the  remainder  of  his  life.  He  married  (ist)  January  13,  1828, 
Martha  Ann  Lowell,  born  March  3,  1809,  died  June  29,  1841;  she 
was  a  daughter  of  Edward  and  wife,  Martha  Lamb,  of  Harrison,  Me. 
Married  (2nd)  April  25.  1842,  Rebecca  L.  Sanborn,  born  November 
23,  1825,  died  January  18,  1854,  daughter  of  Stephen,  of  Standish, 
and  wife,  Sally  Longley;  (3d)  February  12,  1856,  Mary  Maria 
Stevens,  born  May  22,  1829;  is  living;  daughter  of  John  and  wife, 
Lvdia  Hustin.  of  Windham,  Me.  Mr.  Brackett's  business  was  farm- 
ing. He  died  August  4,  1885.  Children,  by  wife  Martha  Ann 
Lowell: 

1.  Amos,  b.  15  Dec,  1838.     See  famil3T  29. 
By  wife  Rebecca  L.  Sanborn: 

2.  Martha  Ann,  b.  26  Mar.,  1843;   d.  6  Oct.,  1848. 

3.  Horace  Nelson,  b.  1  Aug.,  1844.     See  family  30. 

4.  William  Merrill,  b.  24  Aug.,  1846:  mar.  Hattie  Wardell,  dau. 
of  Amos  and  wife,  Julia;  she  was  b.  in  1848.  Mr.  Brackett  is  a 
retailer  and  resides  in  Oxford,  Me.     No  issue. 

5.  Llewellyn  Kendall,  b.  21  June,  1847.     See  family  31. 

6.  George  Waterhouse,  b.  14  Aug.,  1848;  d.  12  Sept.,  1848. 
By  wife  Mary  M.  Stevens: 

7.  Arolin  Emma.  b.  30  June,  1859,  in  Harrison,  Me.;  mar.  20 
Jan.,  1S79,  William  O.  Emmons,  b.  5  Jan.,  1857,  son  of  Joseph  F., 
and  wife,  Hannah  A.  Emmons,  of  Kennebunk,  Me.  He  is  a  black- 
smith and  carpenter.  Places  of  residence  in  their  order  are  Harrison 
and  Portland,  Me.;  Lynn,  Mass.;  Greenwood,  Me.  Mrs.  Emmons 
supplied  data  for  family  11.     Issue: 

1st.  Maud  Elena,  b.  6  Sept.,  1880;  mar.  31  Jan.,  1897,  Ross 
D.  Coburn;  reside  in  Greenwood,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Elcie  Elena,  b.  12  Oct.,  1898. 

II.  Winnifred  Mildred,  b.  12  Apr.,  1900;   d.  iS  June,  1900. 

III.  Bertrice  Elmena,  b.  6  May,  1901. 

2nd.  Mildred  Frances,  b.  15  May,  1883;  mar.  18  June,  1899, 
Allen  E.  Cole;  resides  in  Greenwood,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Hazel  Inez,  b.  16  June,  1900. 

II.  Bertha  Mildred,  b.  9  Mar.,  1902. 
3d.     Llewellyn  Brackett,  b.  28  May,  1889. 

4th.     Hugh  Fesington,  b.  7  Dec,  1897;  d.  11  Dec,  1897. 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From    Family    No.    3.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Chapman. 

Chapman  Brackett  w7as  born  August  21,  1808,  in  that  part  of 
the  present  city  of  Westbrook  which  was  formerly  a  part  of  the  town 
of  Falmouth.  He  was  reared  in  the  town  of  Harrison,  and  upon  his 
marriage  settled  in  Bridgton,  Me.;  from  there  removed  to  Mason, 
thence  to  Casco,  Me.  Married  December  9,  1831,  Amanda  Wight, 
born  September  21,  181 7,  died  September  3,  1866,  daughter  of 
Virgil  (and  wife  Ann  Wiseman),  son  of  Jonathan,  son  of  Jonathan, 
son  of  Henry,  son  of  Thomas  Wight,  the  immigrant.  Mr.  Brackett 
was  a  farmer;  died  April  20,  1881.     Issue: 

1.     Joel  W.,  b.  27  Dec,  1832.     See  family  32. 


ANTHONY,    JR.,    OF    STROUDWATER  171 

2.  Cyrus  H.,  b.  15  Oct.,  1834;  d.  12  Mar.,  1835. 

3.  Elizabeth  Jane,  b.  30  May,  1837;  mar.  Bartlett  Coughlan; 
reside  in  Portland,  Me.  Children:  May  S.;  John  F.;  John  C; 
Thomas  C. 

4.  Mary  Anna,  b.  5  Oct.,  1843;  mar.  George  K.  Hanson  of  South 
Windham.  Me.     Children:   George  A.;  Joseph  E. 

5.  Charles  C,  b.  22  Dec,  1847.     See  family  33. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY     NO.     13. 

From    Family    No.    4.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Reuben,  William  P. 

William  Plummer  Brackett  was  born  February  27,  1808,  in 
Westbrook,  Me.  While  a  young  man  he  left  Cumberland  county, 
the  place  of  his  and  his  ancestors'  nativity,  went  to  Oxford  county, 
Me.,  which,  at  the  time,  was  little  better  than  a  wilderness,  where 
he  commenced  to  clear  land  for  a  farm.  The  town  in  which  he  set- 
tled was  Peru.  Here  he  resided  until  his  death.  To  the  census 
enumerator  of  that  town  for  1850,  he  stated  that  his  farm  was  worth 
$800.  He  married  April  21,  1 831,  Laura  J.  Bowrker,  born  March 
29,  1808,  died  November  29,  1873.  She  was  a  daughter  of  James 
Bowker  and  wife,  Judith  Bean,  of  Paris,  Me.  Mr.  Brackett  died 
May  22,  1878.      Issue: 

1.  Julia  M.,  b.  19  Dec,  1832;  mar.  (1st)  Luther  Jackson;  (2nd) 
Edmoud  C.  Bowker;  resides  in  Sumner,  Me. 

2.  Helen  M.,  b.  6  Aug.,  1835;  d.  10  Aug.,  1835. 

3.  William  P.,  b.  5  Apr.,  1838.     See  family  34. 
1.      Laura  J.,  b.  14  Mar.,   [841;   d.  12  Aug.,  1S42. 

5.  Laura  J.,  b.  24  Dec,  1842;  mar.  Adelbert  Bartlett;  resides  in 
East  Blackstone,  Mass. 

('».     Jeremiah  C,  b.  7  Aug.,  1845.     See  family  35. 
7.      Lionel  O.,  b.  22  Aug.,  1S47.     See  family  36. 

FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  4.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Reuben,  Jeremiah  C. 
Jeremiah  Chapman  Brackett  was  born  September  10,  1809,  in 
Westbrook,  Me.,  where  he  resided  until  his  death.  His  business 
was  farming.  In  i860,  he  stated  to  the  census  enumerator  that  the 
value  of  his  farm  was  $2,000.     About  1850,  he  married  Sophronia  E. 

Knight,  daughter  of  Amos  and  wife,  Lucy ,  of  Westbrook,  Me. 

She  was   born   September  22,    1821,  and  died  September  22,   1856. 
He  died  Januarv  17,  1883.     Issue: 

1.  J.  Etta  C,  b.  18  Jan.,  1855;  mar.  12  April,  1899,  John  Kemp- 
ton;  resides  at  Pride's  corner,  Westbrook,  Me. 

2.  Ellen  S.,  b.  18  Sept.,  1856;  mar.  16  Mar.,  1893,  Randall  W. 
Austin,  son  of  Jonah  and  wife,  Minerva  A.  Libby,  of  Windham, 
Me.  He  was  b.  16  Mar.,  1857,  and  is  a  farmer;  resides  in  North 
Falmouth,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Randall  Knight  Austin,  b.  31  Aug.,  1894. 


172  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From    Family    No.    4.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Reuben,  Stephen  M. 

Stephen  Morrill  Brackett  was  born  December  3,  1812,  in  West- 
brook,  Me.;  in  1850  was  engaged  in  merchandising;  had  an  exten- 
sive acquaintance  in  Cumberland  county.  Married  (1st,  intention 
published  July  16,  1S36,)  Lucy  H.  Cobb,  daughter  of  Peter  and  wife, 
-  Hawkes,  of  Windham,  Me.;  she  died  shortly  after  marriage. 
(2nd)  Mary  G.  Hackett,  daughter  of  Ezekiel  and  wife,  Susan  Graf- 
burn,  of  Green,  Me.,  born  October  22,  1808,  died  October  8,  1883. 
Mr.  Brackett's  death  occurred  March  12,  1888.  Issue,  by  wife  Lucy 
H.  Cobb: 

1.  Margaret  Webber,  who  mar.  George  W.  Furlong,  son  of  Ben- 
jamin and  wife,  Eliza  Wiley;  is  freight  agent  of  Boston  &  Maine 
R.  R.;  home,  in  Deering,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     John  Eugene,  b.  24  Oct.,  1870;  d.  28  Apr.,  1878. 
2nd.     Gertrude  Eliza,  b.   20  Oct.,    1871;   d.  8  Jan.,    1902;  mar. 
28  Oct.,  1890,  Elmer  H.  Ingalls.     Issue: 

I.  George  H.,  b.  in  1891. 

II.  Elmer  H.,  Jr.,  b.  9  Jan.,  1893. 

III.  Edith  Gertrude,  b.  in  1894. 

3d.     George  French,  b.  9  Feb.,  1875;  d.  in  Dec,  1881. 
4th.     Mark  Emory,  b.  9  June,  1876;  d.  23  Aug.,  1876. 
By  wife  Mary  G.  Hackett: 

2.  Elizabeth,  b.  23  Nov.,  1846;  d.  27  Apr.,  1870;  mar.  Daniel 
McDonald. 

3.  Addie,  b.  10  Apr.,  1848;  mar.  14  Feb.,  1887,  Luther  Starbird, 
b.  14  Sept.,  1822;  home,  in  Green,  Me. 

4.  Stephen. 

5.  Mary,  b.  10  Mar.,  1852;  d.  24  Mar.,  1852. 

FAMILY    NO.    16. 

From    Family    No.    4.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Reuben,  Samuel  M. 

Samuel  M.  Brackett  was  born  March  2,  1820,  in  Westbrook,  Me. 
His  business  was  farming.  He  resided  for  several  years  in  West- 
brook  when  he  removed  to  Cumberland,  where  he  continued  to 
reside  until  his  death,  March  9,  1895.  He  married  January  4,  1854, 
Harriet,  daughter  of  Joseph  Russell  and  wife,  Priscilla  P.  Wilson,  of 
Falmouth,  Me.  She  was  born  June  27,  1824;  resides  in  Cumber- 
land, Me.     Issue: 

1.  Harriet  Lionel,  b.  12  Aug.,  1855;  d.  12  Dec,  1862. 

2.  Alma  Maria,  b.  30  Nov.,  1857;  mar.  5  Aug.,  1891,  Fairfield 
Whitney;  resides  in  Townsend,  Me. 

3.  Reuben  Gooding,  b.  21  Oct.,  1859;  mar.  2  Oct.,  1898,  Mary 
C.  Morrill;  resides  in  Cumberland,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Philip  Everett,  b.  9  Oct.,  1899. 

4.  Anne  Wilson,  b.  12  Sept.,  1861;  mar.  23  Aug.,  1883,  Samuel 
K.  Hitchings;  resides  in  Cumberland,  Me. 

5.  Philip  Russell,  b.  16  Nov.,  1863;  d.  24  Nov.,  1891. 


ANTHONY,    JR.,    OF    STROUDWATER  173 

FAMILY     NO.     17. 

From    Family    No.    6.       DesceTit:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Anthony,  Daniel  G. 

Daniel  G.  Brackett  was  born  February  9,  1826;  is  a  farmer; 
resides  at  Sebago  Lake,  Me.;  married  in  1859,  Susan  A.  Whiting, 
born  in  1834,  daughter  of  Oliver  and  wife,  Belinda  Fuller,  of  Den- 
mark, Me.     Issue: 

1.  Albert  F.,  b.  24  Nov.,  1859;  mar.  Carrie  Jones. 

2.  George  Ingalls,  b.  27  Jan.,  1863;  mar.  in  Dee.,  1884,  Lillie 
Lowell;  resides  in  Watertown,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Clon  L.,  b.  5  May,  1886. 

3.  Solon  C,  b.  5  Dec.,  1877;  unmar.;  resides  at  Sebago  Lake. 

FAMILY   NO.    18. 

From    Family    No.    7.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Nathaniel,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  December  30,  1825,  in  Naples,  Me., 
where  he  resided  all  his  life;  was  a  farmer;  died  March  18,  1898; 
married  (1st)  in  May,  i860,  Olive  Gilman;  (2nd)  February  19,  1869, 
Almira  A.  Ingalls  (see  div.  7,  fam.  6).     Issue: 

1.     Lottie,  who  mar.  in  Feb.,  1898,  Frank  Manchester. 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From    Family    No.    7.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Nathaniel,  Lendal  S. 

Lendal  S.  Brackett  was  born  August  20,  1831,  in  Naples,  Me., 
where  he  resided  all  his  life;  was  a  farmer;  is  deceased;  married 
May  8,  1857,  Anna  Hapsgood,  born  January  29,  1836,  daughter  of 
Oliver  and  wife,  Abigail  Welch.     Issue: 

1.  Melville  S.,  b.  30  Nov.,  1858;  mar.  27  Dec,  1871,  Minerva 
Mains;  resides  in  Naples. 

2.  Dana  L-,  b.  14  Oct.,  1862;  mar.  30  Nov.,  1891,  Mamie  Davis; 
resides  in  Portland,  Me. 

3.  Lillie  G.,  b.  20  Jan.,  1866;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1887,  Herbert  A. 
Edwards;   resides  in  Caribou,  Me. 

4.  Cora  M.,  b.  12  Jan.,  1870;  mar.  20  Mar.,  1897,  James  S. 
Maitis;  resides  in  Otisfield,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Leon  B.,  b.  5  Jan.,  1898. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From    Family    No.    7.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Nathaniel,  Charles. 

Charles  Brackett  was  born  February  11,  1838,  in  Naples,  Me.; 
married  November  27,  1862,  Julia  Deach.     Issue: 

1.  Edward  F.,  b.  15  Dec,  1866;  is  unmar. 

2.  Maria  E.,  b.  29  Oct.,  1867;  mar.  19  Jan.,  1SS6,  George  M. 
Burgess.  Children:  Eva  M.,  b.  4  Nov.,  1887;  Nina,  b.  12  Aug., 
1889;  Winfield,  b.  4  Nov.,  1892;  George  N.,  b.  20  Oct.,  iT 


174  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

3.  Olive  G.,  b.  27  Apr.,  1872;  mar.  Charles  A.  Lord.  Children: 
Albert  C,  b.  21  Jan.,  1889;  Kittie  L-,  b.  27  June,  1891;  Charles  G., 
b.  29  June,  1894. 

4.  Mary  M.,  b.  24  Sept.,  1874;  mar.  George  Shone.  Children: 
Julia  A.,  b.  16  June,  1894;  Linwood  B.,  b.  10  Jan.,  1896;  Lafayette, 
b.  22  Oct.,  1898. 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From    Family    No.    8.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  William,  Daniel  H. 

Daniel  H.  Brackett  was  born  June  3,  1813,  in  Waterford,  Me. 
In  1850,  he  was  living  in  the  town  of  his  nativity;  later  he  resided  in 
Freeport;  from  there  removed,  prior  to  i860,  to  the  town  of  Yar- 
mouth, where  he  dwelt  until  his  death,  which  occurred  December  16, 
1883;  was  a  farmer;  married  August  2,  1838,  Hannah  Bennett  of 
Yarmouth,  born  February  20,  1816,  died  September  27,  1879,  daugh- 
ter of  William  and  wife,  Hannah  Day.     Issue: 

1.  Orrin  W.,  b.  13  Jan.,  1841,  in  Freeport,  Me.;  resided  for  sev- 
eral years  in  Yarmouth,  Me.  Served  in  company  G.,  25th  Maine 
volunteer  infantry,  during  the  civil  war;  mar.  24  Dec,  1866,  Harriet 
N.  S.  Walker,  daughter  of  William  and  wife.  Lois  Soule.  Mr. 
Brackett  died  4  Feb.,  1900.     Issue: 

1st.  Gertrude  E.,  b.  18  Feb.,  1869;  mar.  William  R.  Craige  of 
Freeport,  Me.     Home  in  Freeport,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Harriet  V..  b.  29  July,  1887. 

II.  Carl  H.,  b.  29  June,  1890. 

III.  Lois  M.,  b.  22  Dec,  1893. 

2nd.     Alvernice  M.,  b.  2  Sept.,  1872;  is  unmar. 

2.  Alvin  M.,  b.  7  Jan.,  1843;  d.  1  Mar.,  1864.  Served  in  com- 
pany F,  1st  Maine  volunteer  cavalry;  was  in  Dalghren's  raid  on 
Richmond,  Ya.  The  report  of  the  adjutant  general  shows  that  he 
was  killed  in  battle  1  Mar.,  1864;  some  of  his  comrades  who  were 
taken  prisoners,  said  that  he  lived  to  4  Mar.,  1864. 

3.  Ellen  L.,  b.  24  Dec,  1848;  mar.  Edwin  Fitz;  home,  in  West 
Pownal.  Me. 

4.  Henry  D.,  b.  19  Sept.,  1851;  mar.  14  Nov.,  18.71,  Eliza  P. 
Tuttle,  b.  3  July,  1854,  dau.  of  James  T.  and  wife,  Elizabeth  J.  Fitz, 
of  Freeport;  home,  in  Yarmouthville,  Me.;  is  a  traveling  salesman. 
Mrs.  Brackett  is  secretary  (1906)  of  the  Brackett  Family  Association, 
which  position  she  has  held  since  1904.     No  issue. 

FAMILY   NO.    22. 

From    Family   No.     8.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,     Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  William,  George  W. 

George  W.  Brackett  was  born  in  Harrison,  Me.,  May  6,  1818, 
lived  in  1850  in  Waterford,  Me.,  later  in  Harrison;  subsequently  to 
1880,  removed  to  Bethel  and  from  there  to  Westbrook,  Me.,  where  he 
died  October  17,  1893;  was  a  farmer;  married  (1st)  May  17,  1842, 
Rebecca  Bailey,  born  October  21,  181 8,  died  June  24,  1880,  daughter 
of  Joseph  and  wife,  Betsey  Dyer  of  Westbrook;  married  (2nd)  Mary 
Pattee  of  Bethel,  Me.    Issue: 


ANTHONY,  JR.,  OF  STROUDWATER  175 

1.  Christian,  b.  3  Jan.,  1844;   d-  26  Oct.,  1858. 

2.  Addie  S.,  b.  6  June,  1849;  mar.  1  May,  1878, W.  H.  H.  Bryant; 
home,  in  Cumberland  Mills,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Myrton  A.,  b.  11  Apr.,  1880. 

3.  Parmelia,  b.  24  Aug..  1851;  mar.  27  June,  1-871,  George  A. 
Hall;  d.  13  Oct.,  1882.  Children,  Altie  M.,  b.  30  May,  1874,  d.  in 
June,  1876;  John  B..  b.  16  Aug.,  1877;   Lelia  Mai,  b.   26  July,  1881. 

4.  Emil  J.,  b.  25  June,  1854.     See  family  37. 

5.  George  E.,  b.  16  June,  1857.     See  family  38. 

6.  Lizzie  L.,  b.  30  Aug.,  1859;  mar.  6  Mar.,  1895,  Horace  Annas, 
b.  8  Aug.,  i860,  son  of  Jacob  and  wife,  Hannah  Cushman,  of  Bethel. 
Me.;  is  an  upholsterer;  have  resided  in  Barre,  Vt.,  and  Woodfords, 
Me.;  home,  in  Westbrook,  Me.  Mrs.  Annas  supplied  data  relative  to 
family  22. 

7.  Nellie  M.,  b.  26  Aug.,  1863;  mar.  4  Dec.  1894,  Freeman  Brown; 
home,  in  Westbrook,  Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From    Family    No.    9.     Descent:     Anthony.    Anthony,     Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John.  Enoch.  Joseph  L. 

Joseph   L.   Brackett  was  born  November   1,    1821,   in  Harrison, 

Me.,    where  he  resided  until  his  death.       Married  Jane   L.  ,    b. 

in  1834;  is  deceased.  Mr.  Brackett  was  given  to  original  expressions. 
Among  others  is  recalled  this,  that  "a  rich  father-in-law  is  like  a  fat 
hog,  is  of  no  use  until  he  is  dead."      Issue: 

1.  Catharine,  b.  about  1845;  is  dec. 

2.  Ira,  b.  about  1851;   is  dec. 

Data  relative  to  this  family,  gleaned  from  censuses. 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 

From    Family    No.    9.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Enoch,  Lewis  G. 

Lewis  G.  Brackett  was  born  November  — ,  1833,  in  Harrison, 
Me.,  where  he  resided,  engaged  in  farming;  he  married  Eliza  A. 
,  b.  about  1840,  in  Otisfield,  Me.;   is  deceased.     Issue: 

1.  Lyman  C,  b.  Apr.,  i860. 

2.  Laura  G.,  b.  about  1865. 

3.  Lendon  J.,  b.  about  1871. 

4.  Lewis  N.,  b.  about  1874. 

Data  as  to  this  family,  gleaned  from  censuses. 

FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From  Family  No.  10.  '  Descent:  Anthony.  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Walker,  Silas  B. 
The  Rev.  Mr.  Silas  B.  Brackett  was  born  November  11,  1818,  in 
Harrison,  Me.  He  attended  for  a  time  the  North  Bridgton  academy 
and  taught  several  terms  of  public  school;  in  the  twenty-fourth  year 
of  his  age  he  said  "farewell  to  ray  praying  mother"  and  left  Harrison 
for  Northfield  and  Wesley,  Me.,  to  take  charge  of  the  Methodist 
Episcopal  churches  in  those  towns,  in  the  capacity  of  minister.     Sub- 


170  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

sequently  he  had  charge  of  churches  in  Orland  and  East  Bnckfield, 
Trenton,  Farmington,  Industry,  Fairfield,  Solon  and  Phillips,  in  the 
order  named.  In  Avon,  Me.,  in  the  year  1857,  he  purchased  a  farm; 
in  1 S64  he  moved  to  Rangeley,  and  from  there  to  Norway  in  1866. 
During  these  years  his  business  was  farming.  In  1869,  with  his  fam- 
ily he  removed  to  Illinois,  where  he  resided  in  the  towns  of  Dwight 
and  Broughton,  and  later  in  Chicago.  He  married  July  10,  1845, 
Sarah  A.  Burnham  of  Harrison,  Me.  She  was  born  April  12,  1821, 
and  died  April  18,  1889.     He  died  December  15,  1895.     Issue: 

1.  Silas  Frederick,   b.    14  Aug.,    1846;  unmar.;  resides  in  Bock, 
Minn. 

2.  Franklin  Pierce,  b.  27  Sept.,  1847;  mar.  1897.     No  issue. 

Was  killed  in  May,  1905,  by  a  fall  from  the  roof  of  a  building. 

3.  Alpheus  Dovewell,  b.  16  June,  1849.     See  family  39. 

4.  Henry  Campbell,  b.  29  July,  1850.     See  family  40. 

5.  Virgil  Neal,  b.  1  Jan.,  1852.     See  family  41. 

0.  Peel  Bodwell,  b.  11  Apr.,  1853.     See  family  42. 

7.  Velzora  Eastman,  b.  8  July,  1854;  mar.  23  Apr.,  1871,  Thomas 
S.  Woodward;  resides  No.  527,  12  St.,  Denver,  Colo.     Issue: 

1st.     Maud  Daura,  b.  29  Jan.,  1874. 
2d.     Iona  Eastman,  b.  19  Feb.,  1876. 
3d.     Lillie  Velzora,  b.  13  Mar.,  1878. 
4th.     Nora  L>,  b.  6  Mar.,  1881. 
5th.     Horace  Emmett,  b.  19  Aug.,  1883. 

8.  Josephine    Maria,    b.    11    Dec,    1855;     d.    22    Nov.,    1870,    in 
Broughton,  111. 

9.  Gilbert  Marion,  b.  13  May,  1857;  d.  5  Feb.,  1869,  in  Norway, 
Me. 

10.  Mary  Geneva,  b.  28  July,  1858;  d.  3  Apr.,  1884,  in  Dwight,  111. 

11.  Dovina    Downing,    b.    19    Sept.,    1859;   mar.    31    Mar.,    1887, 

Albion  C.  Darst,  son  of  Anson  and  wife,  Dydia  Ann ;  resides  at 

No.  126  25th  St.,  Chicago,  111.     Issue: 

1st.     Flavins  Albion,  b.  7  Feb.,  1889. 
2d.     Calistia  Grace,  b.  17  Feb.,  1891. 

12.  Sumner   Burnham,    b.    27    Sept.,    i860;  d.    4    Nov.,    1870,  in 
Broughton,  111. 

13.  Calistia,  b.  26  Mar.,  1862;  unmar. 

14.  Oliver  Stevens,  b.  16  Mar.,  1863;  d.  24  May,  1863,  in  Avon,  Me. 

15.  Abbie  Ann,  b.  13  June,  1865;  unmar. 

FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From    Family    No.    10.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Walker,  Walker,  Jr. 

Walker  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  November  24,  1824,  in  Harrison, 
Me.  For  a  time  he  lived  in  Casco;  in  i860,  he  again  resided  in  Har- 
rison on  a  farm;  married  Eliza  Deach,  born  about  1834,  of  Raymond, 
Me.;   married  (2nd)  Jennie  Hackett  of  Salem,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  Ellen  M.,  b.  about  1855  in  Casco,  Me. 

2.  May,  b.  about  i860  in  Harrison,  Me. 


ANTHONY,    JR.,    OF    STROUDWATER  177 

FAMILY  NO.  27. 

From    Family    No.    10.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Walker,  Elbridge  O. 

Elbridge  Osgood  Brackett  was  born  October  4,  1830,  in  Harrison, 
Me.  He  has  resided  in  the  following  named  towns:  Mason,  Avon, 
Dixfield  and  Wilton,  Me.,  and  Dover,  Minnesota.  In  the  last  named 
place  he  has  lived  for  several  years.  He  is  a  harness-maker;  mar- 
ried April  15,  1858,  Mary  Butterfield  Hunt,  born  April  13,  1835, 
daughter  of  Noah  Johnson  Hunt  and  wife,  Mary  Bridges,  of  Avon, 
Me.  In  Avon,  Mr.  Brackett  held  the  office  of  selectman  and  he  has 
been  postmaster  at  Dover.     Issue: 

1.  Carrie,  b.  9  Oct.,  1859;   d.  21  Aug.,  1865. 

2.  Hattie,  b.  26  Nov.,  i860;  mar.  16  Sept.,  1882,  Alwyne  A.  Dale; 
resides  at  Dover,  Minn.     Issue: 

1st.     Ethelwyne,  b.  12  Mar.,  1887. 
2nd.     Mary,  b.  4  Feb.,  1891. 

3.  Cora,  1).  14  Oct.,  1866. 

4.  Elbridge  Arden,  b.  23  Feb.,  1873. 

FAMILY    NO.   28. 

From    Family    No.    10.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Walker,  Charles  H., 

Charles  Henry  Brackett  was  born  February  24,  1836,  in  Harri- 
son, Me.;  married  Lois  Talbot;  has  resided  for  many  years  at  Elena, 
Cal.      Issue: 

No  record. 

FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From    Family    No.    n.     Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  John,  Jr.,  Amos. 

Amos  Brackett  was  born  December  15,  1838,  in  Harrison,  Me., 
where  he  still  resides  on  a  farm;   he  married  March  27,  1863,  Eunice 
M.  Peabody,  born  November  13,  1845,  daughter  of  Benjamin  and  wife, 
Polly  Morse,  of  Norway,  Me.     Issue: 
1."     Harry  B.,  b.  12  Oct.,  1880. 

FAMILY    NO.    30. 

From    Family    No.    11.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  John,  Jr.,  Horace  N. 

Horace  Nelson  Brackett  was  born  August  1,  1844,  in  Harrison, 
Me.  Enlisted  July  23,  1862,  into  company  H,  17th  Me.  vol.  inf.; 
was  in  ten  general  engagements,  among  others,  Fredericksburg, 
Chancellorsville,  Gettysburg  and  the  Wilderness,  where  he  lost  a  leg. 
At  Gettysburg  was  one  of  four  of  his  company  to  stack  arms  after  the 
battle;  nine  were  killed,  eight  wounded,  and  the  rest  missing.  Was 
made  corporal  on  the  field  of  Locust  Grove;  discharged  March  23, 
1865.  Married  October  15,  1885,  Josephine  P.  Arnold,  born  Decem- 
ber 6,  1859,  daughter  of  Leonard  P.  and  wife,  Frances  D.  Stevens,  of 
North  Abington,  Mass.     Was  a  contractor;  had  an  extensive  acquain- 


178  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

tance  and  was  very  popular  with  his  many  friends.      He  died  January 
19,  1904.     Issue: 

1.  Leonard  A.,  b.   11  Nov.,  1886. 

2.  Dorrice,  b.  17  Dec,  1896. 

FAMILY    NO.    31. 

From    Family    Xo.     11.      Descent:      Anthony.    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  John,  jr.,  Llewellyn  K. 

Llewellyn  Kendall  Braekett  was  born  June  21,  1847,  in  Harrison, 
Me.;  resides  in  Lynn,  Mass.,  where  he  is  employed  as  watchman  on 
the  plant  of  the  General  Electric  Co.  of  that  city.  Served  as  a  private 
in  company  I,  12th  Maine  volunteer  infantry  from  February,  1865  to 
March,  1866;  married  October  20,  1871;  Sally  B.  Winslow,  daughter 
of  George  W.  and  wife,  Ellen  E.  Holmes,  of  Marblehead,  Mass.  She 
was  horn  May  26,  1852,  and  died  May  22,  1892.     Issue: 

1.  John  H.,  b.  28  June,  1872;  mar.  in  June,  1899,  Etta  Jeffers; 
resides  at  41  Clinton  St.,  Fitchburg,  Mass. 

1'.      Washington  \Y.,  b.  7  Mar.,  1877;   d.  22  June,  1882. 

3.  Sadie  R.,  b.  15  June,  1882;  mar.  in  Sept.,  1899,  Win.  McCann; 
resides  in  Lynn,  Mass.      Issue: 

1st.     Hattie  Braekett,  b.  21  Oct.,  1900. 
I'd.      .Sally  Howard,  b.  11  July,  1901. 

FAMILY    NO.    32. 

From    Family    No.     12.      Descent:     Anthony.    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Chapman,  Joel  W. 

Joel  Whitman  Braekett  was  born  December  27,  1832,  in  the  town 
of  Bridgton,  county  of  Cumberland,  state  of  Maine;  he  moved  to 
Massachusetts,  thence  to  Missouri,  in  which  state  he  resided  in  Ray- 
mondsville  until  his  death,  December  30,  1905.  He  served  in  com- 
pany G,  5th  Maine,  volunteer  infantry,  and  in  company  K,  United 
States  veteran  reserve  corps;  married  October  30,  1857,  Hannah  B. 
Russell,  born  May  22,  1838,  daughter  of  Benjamin  and  wife,  Mahala 
Wright,  of  Greenwood,  Oxford  county.  Maine.     Issue: 

1.     Almoren,  b.  30  Oct.,  1858.     See  family  43. 

'_'.      Fred  A.,  b.  26  Feb.,  1861.     See  family  44. 

3.  Sarah  L-,  b.  13  Sept.,  1867;  mar.  25  Dec,  1886,  Chauncey  W. 
Payne;   resides  in  Raymondsville.      Issue: 

1st.     Cassius  M.,  b.  4  Apr.,  1888. 
2d.     Arthur  W.,  b.  18  Aug.,  1890. 
3d.     Ernest,  b.  24  July,  1893. 
4th.     Chauncey  S.,  b.  12  Aug.,  1897. 

4.  Mary  A.,  b.  29  Mar.,  1873;  mar.  29  Mar.,  1896,  Joseph  Holder; 
resides  in  Raymondsville.     Issue: 

1st.    Charlie  Joe,  b.  7  Mar.,  1898. 

5.  Charlie  Joe,  b.  6  June,  1878;  unmar.;  resides  at  Jamestown, 
Arkansas. 


ANTHONY,  JR.,  OF  STROUDWATER  179 

FAMILY  NO.  33. 

From  Family  No.  12.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Chapman,  Charles  C. 
Charles  C.  Brackett  was  born  December  22,  1847,  in  the  town  of 
Mason,  county  of  Oxford,  Me.;  he  has  resided  in  Portland  and  East 
Deering,  Me.,  and  now  lives  in  Harrison  on  a  farm.  He  served  in 
company  C,  15th  Maine  volunteer  infantry,  from  February  6,  1865, 
date  of  enlistment,  to  February  9,  1866,  date  of  discharge.  He  mar- 
ried September  17,  1881,  Elizabeth  Boyd,  born  April  19,  1863 
daughter  of  James  and  wife,  Catherine  Wark,  of  Portland.      Issue: 

1.     Albert  C,  b.  26  Aug..  1882. 

-.     Bessie  A.,  b.  7  Aug.,  1S84. 

3.      Edward  E.,  b.  3  May,  1893. 


X  I XTH    GENERATION 


FAMILY    NO.   34. 

From    Family    No.     13.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony.    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah.  Reuben,  William  P.,  William  P. 

William  Plummer  Brackett  is  a  farmer  in  West  Peru,  Maine, 
where  he  has  resided  since  his  birth,  April  5,  1838.  Married  January 
1.  [862,  Sarah  M.  Jackson,  born  April  2,  1838,  daughter  of  Seth  W. 
and  wife,  Elnora  Woodsum,  of  West  Peru,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Albion  L..  b.  9  Nov,  1863.     See  family  45. 

2.  Irving   L.,   b.    10  Apr.,    1869;   is  unmar;  resides  in  Rockland, 
Mass. 

FAMILY   NO.    35. 

From    Family    No.    13.       Descent:       Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Reuben,  William  P.,  Jeremiah  C. 

Jeremiah  C.  Brackett  was  born  August  7,  1845,  in  Peru,  Maine. 
He  married  October  6,  1869,  Olive  A.  Jackson,  born  September  19, 
18 — ,  daughter  of  Seth  W.  and  wife,  Elnora  Woodsum,  of  West  Peru, 
Me.  Mr.  Brackett  served  in  company  E,  31st  and  32nd  Maine  volun- 
teer infantry.     He  is  a  conductor  on  street  railway.     Issue: 

1.  Elvin,  b.  11  June,  1871. 

2.  Alton  B.,  b.  5  Aug.,    1874;   mar.  2  Dec,  1897,  Minerva  Litch- 
field.    Issue: 

1st.     Jerry  Elvin,  b.  11  Feb.,  1899. 

3.  Eva  M.,  b.  26  Mar.,  1883. 

FAMILY    NO.    36. 

From    Family    No.    13.     Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 

Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Reuben,  William  P.,  Lionel  O. 

Lionel  Oren  Brackett  was  born  August  22,  1847,  in  Peru,   Me. 

His   first   place    of   residence,    upon   leaving   his   native    town,    was 

Auburn,  Me.;   from  there  he  moved  to  Sumner,  Me.,  thence  back  to 


180  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Auburn;  is  a  weaver,  second-hand  in  weave  room;  married  August  30, 
1877,  Sarah  J.  Bellis,  born  January  12,  1856,  daughter  of  John  and 
wife,  Mary  Jane  Walker,  of  Calais,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Velma  Gladys,  b.  4  Sept.,  1885. 

2.  Hattie  Emma,  b.  27  Feb.,  1889. 

FAMILY    NO.    37. 

From    Family    No.    22.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  William,  George  W.,  Emil  J. 

Emil  J.  Brackett  was  born  June  25,  1854,  in  Harrison,  Me.  He 
now  resides  in  Westbrook,  Me.,  on  a  farm.  He  married  (1st)  June 
6,  1878,  Etta  Gammon,  daughter  of  Seba  and  wife,  Jane  Frost,  of 
Norway,  Me.  She  died  October,  14,  1885;  ( 2nd)  December  3,  1886, 
Kate  Bailey,  daughter  of  William  and  wife,  Emeline  Knight,  of  Peru, 
Me.     Issue: 

1.  Lulu,  b.  7  June,  1880;   d.  3  Aug.,  1880. 

2.  Ellie  Rebecca,  b.  4  Feb.,  1883;   d.  21  Dec,  1900. 

FAMILY    NO.    38. 

From    Family    No.    22.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  William,  George  W.,  George  E. 

George  Edwin  Brackett  wras  born  June   16,    1857,   in  Harrison, 
Me.;  now  resides  in  Westbrook,  Me.     By  trade,  is  a  carpenter.     He 
married    January    29,     1885,     Hattie    Bailey,    born    April    19,     i860, 
daughter  of  Ezra  and  wife,   Lucy  Clark,  of  Mhiot,  Me.     Issue: 
""l.     Carl  Bailey,  b.  16  Nov.,  1886. 

FAMILY    NO.    39. 

From    Family    No.    25.     Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Walker,  Silas  B.,  Alpheus  L. 

Alpheus  Lovewell  Brackett  was  born  in  Maine,  June  16,  1849; 
for  twenty  years  was  baggage  master  and  U.  S.  mail  agent  between 
Boston  and  St.  Johns,  on  the  International  Steamship  Company  line; 
home,  in  Everett,  Mass.  Was  president  of  the  Brackett  Family  Asso- 
ciation, organized  in  1900.  In  1897,  at  his  expense,  he  published 
two  small  pamphlets  containing  names,  dates  of  births,  etc.,  of  many 
of  the  descendants  of  Anthony  Brackett,  which  he  gratuitously  dis- 
tributed. These  little  works  have  been  found  nearly  free  from  errors, 
and  have  been  of  the  greatest  value  in  the  compilation  of  this  history. 
In  addition  he  had  collected  an  amount  of  unpublished  data,  which 
he  generously  placed  to  the  use  of  the  writer.  Married  Annie  L. 
Ditmars  of  Somerville,  Mass.,  born  September  25,  1857.     Issue: 

1.  Annie  May,  b.  13  Nov.,  1881. 

2.  Alice  Burnham,  b.  9  Sept.,  1884;  d.  10  Aug.,  1885. 

3.  Alpheus  Ditmars,  b.  8  Dec,  1885. 

4.  Arthur  Hamilton,  b.  14  Feb.,  1888. 

5.  Anthony  Howard,  b.  15  Mar.,  1890. 

6.  Abigail  Helen,  b.  23  Feb.,  1885;  d.  15  Mar.,  1897. 


ANTHONY,  JR.,  OF  STROUDWATER  181 

FAMILY    NO.   40. 
From    Family    No.    25.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Walker,  Silas  B.,  Henry  C. 

Henry  C.  Braekett  was  born  July  29,  1850,  in  Fairfield,  Me.;  is  a 
contractor  in  Youngstown,  Ohio;  has  resided  in  Norway  Me.,  Dwight, 
111.,  and  Waverly,  Term.,  in  the  order  named.  Married  April  14, 
1876,  Catherine  Welch,  born  in  September,  1849,  daughter  of  Edward 
and  wife,  Anna  Welch,  of  county  Mayo,  Ireland.     Issue: 

1.  Edward,  b.  8  Aug.,  1877;  resides  in  Youngstown. 

2.  Albert,  b.  23  Apr.,  1879;  resides  in  Youngstown. 

3.  Andrew  O.,  b.  20  Apr.,  1882;  resides  in  Youngstown. 

4.  William  H.,  b.  2  Feb.,  1884;  resides  in  Yroungstown. 

5.  Earl,  b.  31  May,  1886;  d.  12  Feb.,  1890. 

FAMILY    NO.   41. 
From    Family    No.    25.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Walker,  Silas  B.,  Virgil  N. 

Virgil  Neal  Braekett  was  born  January  1,  1852,  in  Maine;  is 
contractor  and  gravel  roofer  in  Chicago;  was  alderman  two  terms,  from 
1893  to  1S97.  Married  June  10,  1894,  Clara  S.  Tibbits,  born  April 
27,  1868,  daughter  of* Charles  and  wife,  Fanny  M.  Spencer,  of  Roches- 
ter, N.  Y.      Issue: 

1.  Anthony  Virgil,  b.  28  Aug.,  1896;  d.  26  Apr.,  1897. 

2.  Thomas  Reed,  b.  25  Dec,  1901. 

FAMILY    NO.    42. 
From    Family    No.    25.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Captain  John,  Walker,  Silas  B.,  Peel  Bodwell. 

Peel  Bodwell  Braekett  was  born  April  11,  1853;  he  resides  in 
Chicago;   married  Agnes  Jane  Neal,  born  in  January,  1862.     Issue: 

1.  Robert  Helmuth,  b.  12  Aug.,  1891. 

2.  Mabel  Jane,  b.  8  June,  1893. 

3.  Ruth  Lillian,  b.  20  July,   1895. 

FAMILY    NO.    43. 
From    Family    No.    32.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  John,  Chapman,  Joel  W.,  Almoren. 

Almoreu  Braekett  was  born  October  30,  1858;  married  (1st) 
Mahalia  Robier;  (2nd)  Love  Martin.  In  the  war  with  Spain  he 
served  in  6th  volunteer  infantry,  and  in  U.  S.  hospital  corps,  to  which 
transferred:  is  now  totally  blind;  home,  in  Raymondsville,  Mo.  Issue: 
Frank,  b.  17  June,  1883;  Joel  W.;  William  M.;  Daisey  L.;  Benjamin 
H.;  Rose  May;  James  B.;   Carlos,  and  John  W. 

FAMILY  NO.  44. 
From  Family  No.  32.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  John,  Chapman,  Joel  W.,  Fred  A. 
Fred  A.  Braekett  was  born  February  26,  1861;  married  June  12, 
1 88 1,  Emily  A.  Holden;  home,  in  Raymondsville,  Mo.  Issue:  Alfred 
A.,  b.  30  June,  1882;  Nellie  A.;  Mary  E.;  Hattie  H.;  Walter  S.,  b. 
21  Oct.,  1892;   Estella  R.;  Mark  H.,  b.  7  Mar.,  1898. 


182  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    45. 

Prom  Family  No.  34.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zaehariah, 
Anthony,  Jr.,  Jeremiah,  Reuben,  William  P.,  William  P., 
Albion  L. 

Albion  L.  Braekett  was  born  November  9,  1863,  in  Peru,  Me., 
from  where  he  removed  to  his  present  place  of  residence,  Auburn, 
Me.  He  lives  at  No.  114,  7th  Street;  is  second-hand  in  weaving 
room.  Married  September  30,  1885,  Cassie  E.  Calligan,  born  July  25, 
1863,  daughter  of  Warren  P.  and  wife,  Mary  E.  Morgan,  of  Machias, 
Ml-.     Issue: 

1.  William  W.,  b.  6  Jan.,  1887. 

2.  Hazel  B.,  b.  19  Jan.,  1889. 

3.  Harold  L-,  b.  6  Apr.,  1891. 

4.  Henry  I.,  b.  16  Sept.,  1893. 

5.  Leston  A.,  b.  10  Feb.,  1897. 


THOMAS,    OF    MORRILL'S    CORNER  183 


DIVISION    NO.    5. 


THOMAS    BRACKETT   OF   MORRILL'S   CORNER 
AND    HIS    DESCENDANTS. 


FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  6.     Descent:     Anthony.  Anthony,  Zachariah.  Thomas. 

Thomas  Braekett  was  the  youngest  of  the  children  of  Zachariah 
and  Hannah  Drake,  who  were  born  in  Hampton,  New  Hampshire; 
the  day  and  month  of  the  date  of  his  birth,  are  not  known;  the  year 
thereof  was  1718.  He  was  baptized  in  the  church  in  Falmouth  in 
1737.  As  a  child  he  lisped  his  terror  of  the  Indians  while  huddled 
with  his  brothers,  sisters  and  others  in  a  garrison  house  on  the  Neck; 
as  a  man  his  services  were  as  freely  offered  for  the  defense  of  the 
homes  of  the  settlers,  as  the  love  for  bustle  and  stir  of  a  military  life 
could  inspire  one  to  undergo  the  hardships  and  dangers  of  combat 
with  a  vigilant  and  determined  foe.  When  he  attained  the  age  of 
twenty-six  years,  the  war  of  1744  commenced  with  the  French  and 
Indians.  It  was  the  year  of  his  marriage.  Promptly  he  enlisted  for 
the  war,  was  on  the  expedition  which  effected  the  capture  of  Louis- 
burg,  and  was  present  at  the  surrender  of  that  fortress.  He  served  in 
Captain  Humphrey  Cobb's  company,  Colonel  Samuel  Waldo's  regi- 
ment. For  his  service  on  said  expedition  he  was  granted  land  now  in 
the  present  town  of  Standish,  but  never  lived  on  the  grant.  Also 
served  in  the  last  French  and  Indian  war;  was  a  private  in  Captain 
Jeremiah  Milk's  Falmouth  Neck  company;  his  name  appears  in  a  list 
of  its  members  dated  May  10.  1757.  Like  his  brother  Joshua,  he  was 
probably  a  member  of  another  organization  and  was  absent  from  Fal- 
mouth for  many  months  during  the  war.  He  lived  on  a  farm  of  his 
own  near  Morrill's  corner  adjoining  the  Morrill  farm.  It  is  thought 
that  he  did  not  settle  there  until  subsequently  to  1757,  as  had  he 
resided  there  prior  to  that  year  he  would  probably  have  been  a  mem- 
ber of  Captain  Samuel  Shilling's  Stroudwater  company.  Anthony, 
Jr.,  his  brother,  was  the  only  one  by  the  name  of  Braekett  who  was  a 
member  of  said  company  in  1757. 

He  was  a  devout  and  sincere  Christian.  In  the  First  church  of 
Falmouth,  organized  March  8,  1726,  he  and  his  wife,  in  1748,  acknowl- 
edged the  covenant,  and  in  1749,  were  admitted  to  full  membership. 
In  1760,  he  with  others  signed  a  petition  for  the  enlargement  of  the 
church  building;  later  he  became  a  member  of  the  church  in  the 
Stroudwater  parish,  and  in  a  list  made  in  1760,  of  those  who  paid 
a  tax  for  the  support  of  the  church  in  that  parish,  his  name  is  found. 
The  amount  of  the  tax  which  he  paid,  was  ten  shillings  three  pence, 
it  signifying  that  he  lived  in  a  one-story  house,  the  amount  of  land 
not  being  considered;  in  this  list  is  mentioned  that  he  dwelt  near 
Morrill's  corner.  A  Miss  Sarah  Braekett  living,  in  1894.  in  West 
Auburn,   Me.,    (since  deceased)   in  answer  to  a  letter  to  her,   under 


L84  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

date  of  December  29,  1890,  wrote —  "The  Brackett  you  wrote 
about  who  married  a  woman  by  the  name  of  Snow  was  my  great 
grandfather  *  *;  he  lived  where  Benjamin  Bailey  lived  near  Mor- 
rill's corner,  where  his  daughter  ( Octavia  Ljbby)  now  lives."  Her 
letters,  written  after  she  had  passed  the  seventieth  year  of  her  age,  are 
a  source  of  authority  for  our  genealogy,  and,  fortunately,  were  pub- 
lished in  the  Deering  Xews  (January  5.  1895)  under  the  heading 
"Grand  Pa's  Scrap  Book." 

The  greatest  treasure  of  Thomas  Brackett  was  his  family  Bible 
now  in  the  'possession  of  genial  George  Barbour  at  Duck  pond,  West- 
brook,  Me.  It  was  printed  in  London  in  1630  by  Thomas  Baker.  In 
it  are  faithfully  recorded  the  names  of  the  children,  dates  of  their 
births,  and  also  dates  of  deaths  of  some  relatives  of  the  family.  He 
was  its  constant  peruser  and  therein  found  words  of  life  eternal.  Upon 
one  of  its  blank  leaves  he  wrote — 

"Thomas  Brackett  his  Book 
"God  gave  him  grace  therein  to  look, 
"And  when  the  L,ord  Doth  call 
"His  soul  in  heaven  may  have  reward." 
He  married  August  29,  1744,  Mary  Snow;  she  was  a  daughter  of 
John  Snow;  he  came  from  Kittery,  Me.,  was  ship  carpenter  and  lived 
in  Falmouth  at  the  foot  of  George  St.;  he  died  January  14,  1765;   his 
wife  Mary  died  June  22,  1763. 

The  wife  of  Thomas  Brackett,  though  a  woman  of  many  excel- 
lent qualities,  was  much  given  to  an  unreasonable  exercise  of  her 
tongue.  Concerning  her  Miss  Brackett  wrote —  "My  father  told  me 
her  name  was  Nancy  Snow  and  all  she  cared  to  do  was  to  read  and 
scold."  Miss  Sarah  did  not  correctly  remember  the  Christian  name 
of  her  great-grandmother.  Her  father  was  Nathaniel  Brackett;  he 
was  about  eleven  years  old  when  his  grandfather,  Thomas  Brackett, 
died.  It  is  reasonable  to  believe  that  young  Nathaniel  knew  the 
truth  of  the  matter  and  in  his  old  age  told  it  correctly.  The  worthy 
couple  dwelt  quietly,  as  quietly  as  the  Indians  would  let  them,  at 
Morrill's  corner,  he  meditating  on  the  promises  the  book  contained, 
and  she  scolding  young  Nathaniel  and  the  other  grandchildren. 
Whether  Thomas  had  misgivings  that  the  promises  were  not  so  lib- 
eral as  to  include  a  "sulky  sullen  dame"  without  special  pleading; 
whether  merely  an  act  of  temerity  on  his  part;  or  whether  it  was  a 
hope  of  his  based  upon  the  faith  of  an  exceptionally  long  calm  of  the 
unruly  member,  that  prompted  him,  he  ventured  to  write  in  the 
book — 

"Mary  Brackett  and  I  do  join  in  hart  and  hand.  We  Do  Combyne." 
And  signed  his  name. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  an  emergency  man.  All  the  Bracketts  of 
his  day  were  emergency  men — to  the  front  when  there  was  an  alarm 
of  public  danger.  It  will  be  noted  that  he  was  married  in  1744.  It 
was  not  until  174s  that  he  has  spare  time  for  church  matters  and 
baliies,  who  thenceforth  arrive  regularly  at  intervals  of  two  years. 
From  1744  to  1748,  there  was  war  between  Great  Britain  and  France, 
which  involved  their  respective  colonies;  public  danger  called  him 
away  from  his  home.  It  is  pleasing  to  think  of  him  at  the  sunset  of 
his  life  sitting  on  the  porch  of  his  little  cottage,  with  his  children  and 
numerous  grandchildren   about  him,   the  well-thumbed    Bible  in  his 


THOMAS,     OF     MORRILL'S    CORNER  185 

lap,  the  good  wife  at  her  long  rest.  Perhaps,  it  was  not  until  shortly 
before  she  passed  away,  that  the  man  who  was  in  the  front  ranks 
in  the  storming  of  the  forts  about  Louisburg,  ventured  to  write — 
".Mary  Braekett  and  I  do  join  in  hart  and  hand.  We  Do  Combyne." 
He  died  in  the  eighty-sixth  year  of  his  age  on  May  23,  1803. 
Issue: 

1.  John  Snow,  b.  23  Nov.,  1749.     See  family  2. 

2.  William,  b.  7  Aug..  1752.     See  family  3. 

3.  Jane,  bapt.  14  July,  176 — ;  d.  young. 

4.  Peter,  b.  7  Nov.,  1756.     See  family  4. 

.">.      Elizabeth:  bapt.  4  May,  1766;   d.  young. 

I'..  Mary,  1).  14  Sept.,  1760;  mar.  22  Apr.,  1788,  Benjamin  Bailey, 
b.  in  1764,  son  of  John,  Jr.,  grandson  of  Deacon  John;  d.  16  Oct., 
1823.     Issue,  the  name  of  one  only  known. 

1st.  Mary;  b.  4  Apr.,  1789;  mar.  26  Nov.,  1809,  Henry  Wilson, 
b.  14  Feb.,  T7S2.  Children,  Mary,  b.  and  d.  27  Jan.,  1811;  Angeline, 
b.  1  Oct.,  1X12;  Mary  Ann,  b.  26  Dec.  1816;  Benjamin;  Albert  M., 
resided  at  123  Cumberland  St.,  Portland,  mar.,  had  son  Virgil  C, 
graduate  of  Bowdoin  college  in  1880,  is  a  lawyer  in  Portland;   Almira. 

7.  Anna.  b.  12  Mar.,  1764;   mar.  20  Jan.,  1785,  Henry  Pride. 

8.  Hannah,  b.  26  July,  1767;   mar.  6  July,  1785,  Merrill  Sawyer. 


SINTH    GENERATION. 
FAMILY    NO.    2. 

Prom  Family  No.  1.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Thomas,  John  Snow. 

John  Snow  Braekett  was  born  November  23,  1749,  at  Morrill's 
corner,  in  Falmouth.      He  married  Betsey  Berry. 

Efforts  to  secure  data  relative  to  the  family  of  John  Snow  Braekett 
were  futile  until  late  in  the  fall  of  1905,  when  Mr.  George  A.  Braekett 
of  Roxbury,  Mass.,  was  able  to  supply  the  names  of  most  of  his  chil- 
dren. It  is  said  he  had  sixteen  in  all.  If  true  there  were  that  many, 
it  is  thought  that  at  least  two  of  those  whose  names  have  not  been 
learned,  died  in  infancy,  which  is  suggested  by  the  number  of 
children  in  the  family  as  shown  by  the  government  censuses  of  1790 
and  1800.  The  census  of  1790  shows  his  family  to  have  been  in  that 
year  five  males  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years  and  four  females  of 
whom  his  wife  was  one.  The  census  of  1800  gives  the  family  as  fol- 
lows three  males  under  the  age  of  ten  years,  one  male  under  the  age 
of  sixteen  years,  three  females  under  the  age  of  ten  years,  three 
females  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years  and  his  wife.  The  children 
under  the  age  of  ten  years  in  1800,  of  course,  were  not  enumerated 
in  1790:  adding  these  to  the  eight  enumerated  in  1790,  and  the  total 
is  fourteen,  of  whom  but  ten  were  living  in  1800,  and  residing  with 
their  father. 

John  Snow  Braekett  owned  a  farm  in  the  town  of  Westbrook. 
Upon  his  death  in  1801,  it  was  divided  among  his  children  and  each 
received  a  lot  of  eight  acres.  He  was  a  soldier  in  the  Continental 
army;  served  as  a  private  in  Captain  William  Cobb's  Cumberland 
county  regiment;   marched  July  8,    1779;   discharged  September  25, 


L86  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

[779,  at  Falmouth;  served  two  months  and  seventeen  days  with 
detachment  under  Colonel  Jonathan  Mitchell,  expedition  against 
Penobscot;  described  as  "John  Brackett  of  Presumpscot."  He  died 
in  the  fall  of  1801.  His  widow  became  the  wife  of  Joseph  Cobb,  who 
was  the  lather  of  thirteen  children;  they  removed  to  Brunswick,  Me., 
where  the  two  families  were  reared  in  their  new  home.  That  the 
children  lived  in  harmony  is  evident  from  the  fact  that  there  were 
three  intermarriages  among  them.      Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  John,  Jr.,  b.  17  July,  1788.      See  family  5. 

2.  Silas;  d.  young. 

3.  Jacob;  was  living  at  time  of  his  father's  death;   attained  legal 
age,  deeded  his  share  of  his  father's  estate. 

I.  Thomas,   no  further  record. 
5.      Charles,    d.  young. 

(*>.     Jeremiah,    no  further  record. 

7.  Betsey,   mar.  21  Dec,  181 7,  Enoch  Cobb  of  Falmouth. 

8.  Dorcas,  b.  about   1785;   never  married;   deeded  her  share  of  her 
lather's  estate. 

'.>.      Charity,  b.  in  May,  1798;  mar.  24  June,  1818,  George  Cobb  of 
Falmouth;   d.  26  May,  1887. 

10.      Sarah,   mar.  24  Nov.,  1823,  Noah  Hoper. 

II.  Nancy,   mar.  John  Knight  of  Camden,  Me. 
12.     Eunice,   mar.  J.  Randall. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From     Family    No.     1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William. 

William  Brackett  was  born  August  7,  1752,  near  Morrill's  corner 
in  Falmouth,  Me.;  he  resided  in  Falmouth  when  the  part  of  the  town 
where  he  lived  became  the  town  of  Westbrook.  In  1815,  he  removed 
to  the  town  of  Peru  in  Oxford  county,  Me.,  then  sparsely  settled; 
he  resided  in  Peru  until  his  death  in  1848,  engaged  in  farming.  The 
life  of  this  man  presents  many  interesting  features  worthy  of  note, 
lie  was  born  before  the  commencement  of  the  French  and  Indian  war 
and  thirty-seven  years  before  the  founding  of  the  government  of  the 
United  .States:  he  lived  to  see  our  country  extend  its  boundaries  until 
they  embraced  all  its  present  contiguous  territory.  Though  he  was 
born  more  than  one  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago  he  has  children  who 
have  not  yet  seen  their  three  score  and  ten  years  and  are  remarkable 
specimens  of  well  preserved  active  men. 

He  was  engaged  in  farming  the  greater  portion  of  his  life.  Dur- 
ing his  later  years  he  had  an  extensive  acquaintance  with  the  people 
of  the  state  of  Maine.  He  married  (1st)  November  14,  1782,  Betsey 
Walker,  born  about  1761,  died  in  1823,  daughter  of  George  Walker; 
mar.  (2nd)  in  1.S24,  Julia  Smith;  the  last  marriage  was  contracted 
when  he  was  passed  the  seventieth  year  of  his  age. 

William  Brackett  was  a  soldier  in  the  Continental  army.  In  his 
claim  lor  pension,  fded  in  1832,  he  testified  that  he  was  eighty  years 
of  age,  was  born  August  21,  1752;  lived  in  Falmouth  when  he 
enlisted;  removed  to  Peru,  Me.,  in  1815;  that  he  had  an  encysted 
tumor  on  inner  side  of  right  thigh,  firmly  attached  to  the  tendons, 
weight  of  four  or  five  pounds;  that  his  first  term  of  sendee  was  ren- 


THOMAS,     OF     MORRILL'S     CORNER  187 

dered  in  1775;  enlisted  at  Falmouth  in  April  for  eight  months,  in 
company  commanded  by  Captain  John  Brackett,  Colonel  Phinney's 
regiment;  marched  to  Cambridge;  was  there  attached  to  General 
Putnam's  division.  The  government  records  show  that  his  name  is 
on  billeting  roll.  Captain  John  Brackett's  company,  from  date  of  enlist- 
ment, May  18,  1775;  to  date  of  marching  to  headquarters,  July  3, 
177s;  marched  from  Falmouth;  name  on  roll  dated  September  29, 
1  775;  received  order  for  bounty  coat  or  its  equivalent  in  money,  dated 
October  24,  1775,  at  fort  no.  2,  Cambridge. 

His  testimony  was  further,  that  in  the  spring  of  1777,  he  enlisted 
for  a  term  of  nine  months  in  Captain  Abner  Lowell's  company. 
Colonel  Mitchell's  regiment,  which  he  served  at  Falmouth. 

Also,  that  in  the  summer  or  fall  of  1778,  he  enlisted  at  Falmouth 
for  four  months  in  Captain  Abner  Lowell's  company,  was  sergeant, 
stationed  at  Falmouth. 

Also,  in  1779,  served  for  four  months  in  company  commanded  by 
Captain  William  Cobb,  Colonel  Mitchell's  regiment,  General  Wads- 
worth's  brigade;  "served  with  the  expedition  called  the  Penobscot 
expedition  to  Castine,  where  stationed  these  months."  The  govern- 
ment records  show  relative  to  last  term  of  service,  that  "William 
Brackett  of  Presumpscot"  was  sergeant  in  Captain  William  Cobb's 
company,  Cumberland  county  regiment;  marched  July  8,  1779,  dis- 
charged September  25,  1779,  at  Falmouth;  served  two  months  and 
seventeen  days  with  detachment  under  Colonel  Jonathan  Mitchell,  on 
expedition  against  Penobscot. 

Alter  the  close  of  the  war  he  was  an  officer  in  the  state  militia, 
was  captain  of  the  Falmouth  cavalry  company,  later  promoted  to  the 
rank  of  major;  was  familiarly  known  as  Major  William  Brackett. 
Issue: 

1."    Statira,  b.  in  17S2;   d.  in  Sept.,  1800. 

2.  Mary,  b.  23  Mar.,  1784;  d.  in  May,  1836;  mar.  David  Barbour. 
Issue: 

1st.  Eliza,  b.  in  Dec,  1809;  d.  in  1887;  mar.  Samuel  Hawkes. 
Children:     George;  Mary:  Liudley:  Hamilton;   Louisa;  Martha. 

2nd.     Joseph,  b.  12  Apr.,  1811;  mar.  Ruth  Lord;  had  David. 

3d.      Mary.  b.  in  Oct.,  1815;  d.  in  1879;  mar.  Francis  Harris. 

4th.      William,  b.  in  1819;   mar.  Elizabeth  Hilbourn. 

5th.  George,  mar.  Philena  Leighton;  resides  at  Duck  Pond, 
Westbrook;   has  dau.  Ella. 

3.  Mariam;  mar.  George  Babb  of  Peru,  Me.;  children,  Hezekiah^ 
Mary  Ann,  who  mar.  Elmore  Knight;    Seth;   Elinor. 

4.  William,  b.  5  Dec,  1787.     See  family  6. 

5.  Betsey;   d.  young. 

6.  Charlotte;  mar.  Samuel  Bailey  of  Peru,  Me.;  children  were 
William,  who  mar.  ( 1st)  Emeline  Knight;  Betsey,  who  mar.  Henry 
Mclntyre;  Susan,  who  mar.  Haskell;  Lydia,  who  mar.  Roberts;  Gil- 
bert; Emeline,  who  mar.  William  Lombard;  Cornelius,  who  mar. 
Lydia  Perry;   Stillman,  a  soldier,  who  never  married. 

7.  Simeon,  b.  2  Jan.,  1798.     See  family  7. 

8.  Seth,  b.  18  Dec,  1800.     See  family  8. 

9.  Thomas,  b.  10  June,  1809.     See  family  9. 

10.  Amos  S.,  b.  1  May,  1825.     See  family  10. 


188  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

11.  Cynthia,  b.  in  1827;  d.  21  Aug.,  1891;  mar.  John  Warren, 
grinder  in  card-room,  Biddeford,  Me.  Children  were  Susan  A.,  who 
mar.  Lewis  Bean,  and  had  Stephen  Grant;  Mariam,  who  mar.  Eugene 
Gordon,  and  had  William,  Mabel,  and  Harold;  John  W.,  who  mar. 
II attic  M.  Welch,  and  had  Addie  and  Gladys;  Minnie,  who  mar. 
Harry  Hanson,  and  had  Walter;  Zilpha,  who  mar.  George  Sawyer, 
and  had  Minnie  and  Hazel. 

12.  Charles  W.     See  family  1 1 . 

13.  Serena,  b.  in  1835;  mar.  in  1853,  Joseph  C.  Dennett,  son  of 
Ephraim  and  wife,  Eydia  Cleaves;  home,  in  Saco.     Issue: 

[St.      Ruth  A.,  b.  12  Dec,  1856;  mar.  in  Apr.  1880,  Frank  East- 
man of  Saco;  their  children  are  Flora;  Ethel;  Maud,  and  Nellie. 
I'd.      Nellie,  b.  7  July,  i860. 
3d.     George  A.,  b.  2  Aug.,  1866. 
4th.     Ida  V.,  b.  30  Apr.,  1870. 

14.  Peter,  b.  4  Mar.,  1838.      See  family  12. 

FAMILY    NO.    4. 

From  Family  No.  1.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Thomas,  Peter. 

Peter  Brackett  was  born  November  7,  1756,  at  Morrill's  corner,  in 
Falmouth,  Me.;  resided  on  a  farm  in  that  town  until  181 2,  when  he 
removed  to  New  Gloucester  where  lived  his  son  Peter.  The  census 
of  1790  shows  in  his  family  two  males  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years 
and  three  females,  of  whom  his  wife  was  one.  The  census  of  1800 
discloses  members  of  his  family  as  follows:  males,  two  under  the  age 
of  ten  years;  two  between  the  ages  of  ten  and  sixteen  years;  one  be- 
tween the  age  of  sixteen  and  twenty-six  years;  himself  not  yet  forty- 
five  years  old;  and  one  over  the  age  of  forty-five  years;  the  latter  was 
his  father  Thomas,  whose  wife  was  deceased  at  that  time;  females, 
two  under  the  age  of  ten  years;  two  between  the  ages  of  ten  and  six- 
teen years,  and  his  wife.  The  census  of  18 10  shows  an  addition  to 
his  family  of  three  daughters. 

Peter  Brackett  was  a  soldier  in  the  Continental  army.  In  his 
application  for  pension,  made  in  1832,  is  set  forth  his  several  terms  of 
service  during  the  War  of  the  Revolution.  Enlisted  in  May,  1777,  in 
Captain  Abner  Eowell's  company  for  nine  months  which  he  served; 
stationed  at  Falmouth.  Reenlisted  at  Falmouth  April  1,  1778,  as  a 
private  in  Captain  Jesse  Partridge's  company,  joined  Colonel  John 
Greaton's  regiment  and  soon  after  went  to  White  Plains  where  he 
was  stationed;  discharged  November  30,  1778;  "eight  months  service 
at  North  river  with  Falmouth  volunteers,"  as  the  published  record 
reads.  The  claim  was  allowed  and  pension  was  paid  him  to  his 
death  October  27,  1834.  He  married  February  4,  1784,  Sarah 
Sawyer;  she  survived  him  several  years  and  was  herself  a  pensioner; 
her  claim  was  filed  in  1738.  John  Brackett  of  Harrison,  Me.,  testi- 
fied by  affidavit  that  he  was  "77  years  old  last  April"  (1838);  that 
Peter  Brackett  was  his  cousin,  "saw  him  married  to  Sarah  Sawyer, 
daughter  of  my  cousin  Anthony  Sawyer,  late  of  Falmouth."  John 
Sawyer,  brother  of  Sarah,  testified  to  Peter  Brackett  having  lived  in 
that  part  of  Falmouth,  which  became  a  part  of  Westbrook.  Sarah 
testified  to  the  date  of  her  marriage  and  that  the  ceremony  was  per- 


THOMAS,    OF    MORRILL'S    CORNER  189 

formed  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Thomas  Brown.  The  claim  was  allowed, 
and  pension  was  paid  to  her  until  her  death.  She  was  daughter  of 
Anthony,  who  was  son  of  Isaac,  the  first  husband  of  Sarah  Brackett, 
daughter  of  Zachariah  (see  chap.  6).     Issue: 

1.  Hannah,  mar.  29  Nov.,  1810,  Merrill  Berry;  resided  in  Gray, 
Me.;  had  son  Samuel. 

2.  Daniel;  this  son  is  mentioned  by  Sarah  Brackett,  daughter  of 
Peter,  Jr.,  of  whom  she  said,  she  remembered  nothing  except  his 
name. 

3.  Peter,  Jr.,  b.  27  Feb.,  1788.     See  family  13. 

4.  Zachariah,  b.  16  Mar.,  1790.     See  family  14. 

5.  Nathaniel,  b.  in  Mar.,  1792.     See  family  15. 

(>.  Olive,  b.  in  1794;  mar.  (intention  pub.  24  Dec,  1720)  John 
Bailey  of  Morrill's  corner;  d.  22  Apr.,  1872.  Children,  Charles, 
mar.,  had  four  children;  Brackett;  Susannah,  mar.  Roberts,  resided 
in  Deering,  Me.;  Emeline,  mar.  Leonard  Burnham,  resided  in  Deer- 
ing;  Marcena;   Edward,  who  resides  in  Deering. 

7.  vSophia,  mar.  James  Thompson;  lived  in  Gorham,  Me.;  she  d. 
27  Mar.,  1874.     Children,  James;   Leonard. 

8.  Harriet,  mar.  William  Thomas;  resided  in  Oxford,  Me. 
Children,  Newell  of  Oxford,  Me.;   Angeline. 

9.  Susan,  mar.  Stetson  Kenney;  lived  in  Deering,  Me.  Children, 
Freeman,  who  mar.  Ellen  Mason,  resides  in  Deering;  Julia  who 
mar.  Joseph  Brown;   Georgie;   Marcia,  who  mar.  Buck  of  Deering. 

10.  Mary,  b.  9  Sept.,  1804;  mar.  15  Nov.,  1828,  William  Crockett, 
b.  25  Oct.,  1806,  d.  4  Sept.,  1869,  son  of  Simon  and  wife,  Nancy 
Marston;  d.  17  Aug.,  1888.     Issue: 

1st.  George  W.,  b.  23  Apr.,  1830;  house  painter  in  Gorham; 
mar.  Eliza  Newcomb;  d.  22  Dec,  1892.  Children,  George  H.  o 
Maiden,  Mass.;  Albert;  Alfred,  dec. 

2nd.  William,  b.  13  May,  1831;  was  a  carriage  maker;  mar.  in 
i860,  Maria  Kemp  of  Groton,  Mass.;  killed  29  Oct.,  1863,  at  the  battle 
of  Lookout  Mountain.     Child,  Ella,  dec 

3d.     Silas,  b.  13  Mar.  1833;  d.  20  May,  1840. 

4th.  Edwin,  b.  21  Feb.,  1835;  mar.  16  May,  1857,  Susan  White- 
house;  d.  7  Oct.,  1896.     Child,  Charles  E.,  dec. 

5th.     Sarah  A.,  b.  1  Apr.,  1837;  d.  16  Sept.,  1839. 

6th.  Frank,  b.  18  Sept.,  1838;  mar.  Harriet  French;  resides  in 
Woodfords,  Me.  Children,  Ida  E.,  who  mar.  Charles  Billings;  Carrie 
E.;   Ella  F.;   Eva  M.;   Minnie  B. 

7th.     Martha  A.,  b.  1  May,  1841;   d.  2  June,  1842. 

8th.  Mary,  b.  18  Apr.,  1843;  mar.  26  May,  1869,  Eben  R. 
Meserve  of  Limington,  Me.,  son  of  Solomon  and  wife,  Harriet  N. 
Roberts;  residence,  Cumberland  Mills,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Cora  B.,  b.  12  Jan.,  1873;  d.  30  Sept.,  1873. 

II.  Mattie  Ella,  b.  8  Mar.,   1875;  mar.   12  Aug.,    1896,  Otis 
Grafton,  of  Westbrook,  Me. 

9th.  Martha,  b.  28  Apr.,  1845;  mar.  27  Nov.,  1869,  James  L. 
Moulton,  house  painter,  of  Gorham,  Me.,  son  of  Zelotus  and  wife, 
Weeks. 

10th.  Charles,  b.  29  Mar.,  1847,  mar.  6  Sept.,  1868,  Esther  M. 
Plummer  of  Woodfords,  Me.     Child,  Fred  R.,  b.  29  Aug.,  1874. 


190  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

11.  Lois,  mar.  Nathaniel  Doughty,  who  d.  28  Dec,  1885;  she 
d.  16  Jan.,  1886;  resided  in  South  Gray,  Me.  Children,  Albert  H., 
who  mar.  Mary  E.  Simpson;  Abbie  P.,  who  mar.  Isaac  Bagnall; 
Mary  T.,  who  mar.  Albert  F.  Colley.  and  had,  Herbert  L.,  Eugene 
H.,  Grace  M.,  who  d.  20  Aug.,  1S96. 


SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From    Family    No.    2.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  John  S.,  John. 

John  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  July  17,  1788,  in  Falmouth,  Me.; 
he  lived  in  Falmouth  until  1825,  the  most  of  the  time  on  a  farm  near 
Pride's  bridge;  this  farm  formerly  belonged  to  his  father,  and  John 
Brackett  acquired  it  by  purchase  and  inheritance.  In  1825,  he  sold 
it  and  removed  to  Brunswick.  In  that  town  he  purchased  a  tract  of 
land  which  was  nearly  all  forest,  but  a  few  acres  having  been  cleared. 
On  this  farm  he  lived  until  his  death,  September  30,  187 1,  a  period 
of  forty-five  years.  The  house,  built  prior  to  purchase  of  the  farm, 
is  yet  standing,  and  has  been  occupied  continuously  until  during 
recent  years.  In  early  life,  he  followed  shoe-making;  as  was  the 
custom,  went  from  house  to  house  and  made  the  shoes  a  family 
needed.  In  Brunswick,  he  was  engaged  in  getting  out  timber  for 
ship-building,  lumbering,  and  chiefly  in  clearing  and  breaking  his 
farm.  Married  about  1812,  Fanny  Cobb,  born  February  15,  1792,  in 
Windham,  died  May  10,  1875,  daughter  of  Joseph  Cobb;  he  married 
about  1779,  Sally  Pike,  had  children;  married  (2nd)  Betsey  (widow 
of  John  S.  Brackett),  was  son  of  Peter  Cobb,  he  married  Elizabeth 
Small.     Issue: 

1.  Levi,  b.  27  Nov.,  1813.     See  family  16. 

2.  Nancy,  b.  22  Apr.,  1815;  d.  in  Freeport,  17  Apr.,  1885;  mar. 
11  May,  1842,  Willoughby  Haskell  Bailey,  b.  in  Freeport,  Me.,  16 
Sept.,  1813.  where  he  always  lived  until  his  death.  In  early  life,  he 
bought  land  which  he  cleared  for  a  farm,  and  erected  the  buildings 
which  he  occupied  all  his  life;  the  farm  adjoins  that  which  belonged 
to  his  father  on  the  road  leading  from  Freeport  to  Durham;  he  was  a 
carpenter  and  erected  many  buildings  in  and  about  Freeport;  he  and 
his  wife  for  many  years  were  members  of  the  Free-Will  Baptist 
church.      Issue: 

1st.  Levi  Melvin,  b.  25  Feb.,  1847;  mar.  (1st)  5  Nov.,  1870, 
Georgianna  F.  Sydleman  of  Durham,  Me.,  who  d.  9  Apr.,  1878; 
mar.  (2nd)  23  May,  1881,  Sadie  A.  Kendall  of  Freeport.  Issue,  all 
b.  in  Freeport: 

I.  Bertha  Louise,  b.  6  Nov.,  1875;  mar.  18  Aug.,  1898,  Fred 
C.  Blackstone. 

II.  Elsie  Kendall,  b.  3  July,  1885. 

III.  Helen  May,  b.  26  July,  1877;  d.  15  July,  1897. 

IV.  Julia  Converse,  b.  4  May,  1893. 

V.  John  Kendall,  b.  21  May,  1896. 


THOMAS,  OF  MORRILL'S  CORNER  191 

2nd.  Charles  Emery,  b.  13  Jan.,  1848;  mar.  24  Dec.,  1877, 
Mary  H.  Whitney,  b.  13  Nov.,  1861,  in  New  Sharon;  is  a  farmer  in 
Freeport.     Issue: 

I.  Emma  Maud,  b.  13  June,  1879. 

II.  PZlinor  Anne,  b.  15  Feb.,  1885. 

III.  Elizabeth  May,  b.  17  July,  1888. 

3.  Mary  Ann,  b.  12  Sept.,  1816,  in  Westbrook;  never  mar.;  d. 
23  Dec.,  1840. 

4.  Silas,  b.  2  Feb.,  1818.     See  family  17. 

5.  Enoch,  b.  18  Apr.,  1819,  in  Westbrook;  d.  20  June,  1819. 
(I.     Alexander,  b.  19  Mar.,  1821.     See  family  18. 

7.  John,  Jr.,  b.  23  Jan.,  1823.     See  family  19. 

8.  Abba,  b.  23  Sept.,  1824,  in  Westbrook;  mar.  15  June,  1868, 
Miciah  Bailey,  b.  9  June,  1835;  was  a  carpenter;  home,  in  Bruns- 
wick;  she  was  living  in  1906. 

9.  Roxanna,  b.  26  July,  1826,  in  Brunswick,  Me.;  d.  10  May, 
1890;  mar.  29  Apr.,  1848,  Merit  Sylvester  of  Bath,  Me.,  b.  29  Mar., 
1823,  d.  5  Jan.,  1893.     Issue: 

1st.  George  Merit,  b.  8  Aug.,  1849,  in  Bath;  mar.  (1st)  30 
Jan.,  1872,  Sarah  E.  Card,  b.  5  July,  1853,  d.  22  Sept.,  1898,  in 
Brunswick,  Me.;  mar.  (2nd)  21  Jan.,  1902,  Mrs.  Emily  A.  Barnes. 
Is  a  farmer  and  milk  dealer  in  Brunswick.     Issue: 

I.  Fred  Ernst,  b.  [8  July,  1873;  mar.  26  Oct.,  1896,  Annie 
M.  Strout,  1).  29  Apr.,  1S77,  in  Brunswick;  is  a  paper  maker  in 
Brunswick.  Issue:  George  Ernst,  b.  1  Oct.,  1897;  Howard  Lin- 
wood,  b.  6  Feb.,  1900;  Clyde  Strout,  b.  24  July,  1904,  d.  26  Oct., 
1904. 

II.  Ada  Mabel,  b.  11  Mar.,  1876;  mar.  23  Jan.,  1895,  James 
I\.  Hackett,  b.  14  June,  1872,  in  Brunswick.  Issue:  Zena  May,  b. 
26  Feb.,  1896;  Alton  Orville,  b.  1  Mar.,  1898;  Edna  Bernice,  b.  21 
Dec,  1900. 

III.  Roxanna  Josie,  b.  22  Sept.,  1877;  mar.  6  Dec,  1894, 
Irving  W.  Estabrook,  b.  25  Nov.,  1874;  home,  in  Brunswick.  Issue: 
Flora  G.,  b.  14  Aug..  1896;  Thomas  Stearns,  b.  9  May,  1889;  Irving 
Wild,  b.  28  May,  1901,  d.  1  Sept.,  1903. 

IV.  George  Herbert,  b.  4  Dec,  1881;  d.  17  Dec,  1882. 
2nd.     Fred  H.,  b.  28  Apr.,  1857;  d.  9  May,  1865. 

3d.  Frank  Putnam,  b.  25  July,  1868;  mar.  Annie  Maud 
McCabe,  b.  8  Mar.,  [874,  in  Bath,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Merit  Brackett,  b.  27  Feb.,  1899;   d.  28  Jan.,  1904. 

II.  Hannah  Louise,  b.  3  Dec,  1901. 

III.  John  Hamlin,  b.  2  Nov.,  1903. 

IV.  Mary,  b.  8  Jan.,  1906. 

10.  Horatio  Major,  b.  26  Feb.,  1828;  never  mar.;  d.  6  Oct.,  i860. 

11.  Dorcas,  b.  19  Dec,  1830;  mar.  14  Sept.,  1851,  James  F. 
Minot  of  Bowdoin,  Me.,  b.  12  Aug.,  1829,  d.  12  Apr.,  1854,  in  Bath; 
she  d.  5  Apr.,  1856.     Issue: 

1st.  James  Orizave,  b.  4  Dec,  1852;  mar.  5  Dec,  1885,  Rose 
A.  Holbrook,  b.  23  Feb.,  1861,  in  Bowdoin;  is  a  mason  in  Bruns- 
wick.    Issue: 

I.     Edith  A.,  b.  5  Sept.,  1889. 

12.  Francis,  b.  29  Mar.,  1833;  d.  7  Apr.,  1833. 


192  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From    Family    No.    3.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William,  William. 

William  Braekett  was  born  December  5,  1787,  in  Falmouth,  Me.; 
married  (1st)  August  1,  1810,  Mary  Pride;  (2nd)  Jul}'  15,  1814, 
Dorothy  Bailey,  nee  Ried.  For  many  years  he  lived  in  the  town  of 
Westbrook,  Me.;  was  the  owner  of  real  estate  of  considerable  value, 
and  an  enterprising  business  man.     He  died  May  21,  1851.     Issue: 

1.  Williard,  b.  22  Feb.,  1815.     See  family  20. 

2.  Maria,  b.  5  Jan.,  1817;  mar.  June,  1843,  John  Parsons,  a 
merchant,  of  Augusta,  Me.     She  d.  12  Feb.,  1862.     Issue: 

1st.     Maria,  b.  in  1844;  residence.  Augusta,  Me. 

2nd.     John,  b.  in  1846;  was  mar.;  he  d.  in  1899.     Issue: 

I.  Gertrude,  b.  in  1875;  mar.  Elliott  C.  Dill. 

II.  Williard  H..  b.  in  1878. 

3.  Dexter  W.,  b.  15  Sept.,  1825;  mar.  Mrs.  Rebecca  H.  Angus, 
b.  7  Sept.,  1833.     He  died  5  Dec,  1878.     Issue: 

1st.     Albertine  P.,   b.  6  Apr.,  1865;  school  teacher  in  Portland. 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From    Family    No.    3.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William,  Simeon. 

Simeon  Braekett  was  born  January  2.  1798,  in  that  part  of  the 
town  of  Falmouth  which  is  now  Westbrook;  married  January  1, 
1819,  Annie  Forbes,  born  December,  29,  1798,  in  Woodstock,  Me., 
died  January  6,  1875;  removed  to  Peru,  Oxford  county,  Me.,  where 
he  died  March  5,  1846;  was  a  farmer.     Issue: 

1.  Hannah  A.,  b.  26  Feb.,  1820;  d.  6  July,  1899;  mar.  (1st)  30 
Oct.,  1842,  John  H.  Morse  of  Norway,  Me.,  who  d.  10  May,  1854; 
(2nd)  10  Aug.,  1857,  Isaiah  Bonney,  b.  in  1806,  in  Casco.  Me.,  d. 
2  June,  1882,  son  of  Isaiah;  resided  in  Mechanic  Falls,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Georgianna,  b.  20  Dec.  1843;   d.  1  Feb.,  1844. 

2nd.     John  D..  b.  3  July,  1845;  mar.  21  July.  1877,  Lizzie . 

Issue: 

I.  Guy  B.,   b.  6  Feb.,    1880;   mar.   23  Nov.,   1904,   Charlotte 
E.  Joscelyn. 

II.  M.  Vincent,  b.  12  June,  1883;  mar.  10  Sept.,  1904,  Susie 
B.  Berry;  had  Blanche  M.,  b.  4  Jan.,  1906. 

III.  John  D.,  b.  20  Feb.,  1893. 

3d.     Willard  Emory,  b.  6  Aug.,  1847;   is  dec. 
4th.     Charles  H.,    b.   31    Aug.,    1849;    mar.  in    1871,   Laura  I. 
Abington.     Issue: 

I.  Bertha,  b.  about  1873;   mar.  Arthur  Ileff;  had  Arthur,  Jr., 
b.  15  July,  1897. 

II.  Gertrude,    b.    about    1882;    mar.    20   Dec,    1902,    Lewis 
Robinson. 

III.  Jessie,  b.  about  1886. 

5th.  George  A.,  b.  12  July,  1852;  mar.  Hannah  Foster,  who  d. 
in  1900;  had  four  children. 

6th.  Ftelen  F.,  b.  2  Mar.,  i860;  resides  in  Boston;  supplied 
data  relative  to  descendants  of  her  mother. 


THOMAS,    OF    MORRILL'S    CORNER  193 

7th.     Clarence  W.,  b.  31  Oct.,  1861;  d.  22  Mar.,  1875. 
8th.     Augustus  L,.,  b.  15  Jan.,  1863;  d.  26  May,  1889. 
9th.     Hattie  E..   b.  11  May,    1864;  mar.    14  Aug.,    1889,   Frank 
Conklin;  home,  in  Wallingford,  Conn.     Issue: 
I.     Alverton,  b.  23  May,  1893. 

2.  Sybil,  b.  21  Dec,  1821;  never  mar.;  d.  in  Biddeford. 

3.  .Willard,  b.  4  Feb.,  1823;  never  mar.;  was  killed  in  a  mill. 

4.  Nancy  H.,  b.  10  Nov..  1824;  mar.  Whitney.     No  issue. 

5.  Alvarado  D.,  b.  25  Sept.,  1826;  left  home  when  a  boy  and  was 
never  heard  from. 

6.  Betty  F.,  b.  21  Nov.,  1828;  d.  20  Oct.,  1898;  mar.  12  Mar., 
1850,  Mark  Wight,  b.  29  Mar.,  1814,  d.  17  Aug.,  1878,  in  Baker 
township,  Kansas.     Issue: 

1st.     Carolyn  K.,  b.  14  Aug.,    1852;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1870,   Ellis  R. 
Stone  of  Otisfield,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Ellis  Alfred,  b.  27  Jan.,  1872;  mar.  29  Jan.,  1893,  Alice 
B.  Jackson.  Children  are  Hazel  M.,  b.  18  Apr.,  1896;  Theodore 
Roosevelt,  b.  9  Aug.,  1902. 

II.  Harry  Melville,  b.  4  Aug.,  1875;  mar.  26  Oct.,  1903, 
Delia  M.  Lesan. 

III.  Luella  Myrtle,  b.  2  June,  1878;  mar.  26  June,  1895, 
George  A.  Dingley;   have  Alice  Marie,  b.  12  Aug.,  1903. 

2nd.     Samuel  Willard,  b.  28  Jan.,  1855. 

3d.     Margaret  Jane,  b.  18  Nov.,  1858;  d.  5  Dec,  1862. 

4th.     Albert  Leslie,  b.  20  Dec,  1867. 

7.  Charlotte  S.,  b.  15  Aug.,  1829;  mar.  Edwin  A.  Dane;  d.  19 
May,  1 901.     Issue: 

1st.     Elizabeth,    who    mar.    George    T.    Smith.       Children    are 
Grace  L.,  Ethel  M.,  Harriet  E. 

2nd.     Morella  M.,  who  mar.  Wallace  Tuttle.     No  issue. 
3d.     Evalina  A.,   who  mar.  Fred  S.  Chase;  have  Walter  E. 

8.  Bertha,  b.  12  Dec,  1833;  mar.  John  Hackett;  is  dec.  She 
mar.  again.     Issue  by  Hackett: 

1st.     Myrtie,  who  mar.  and  has  one  child. 
2nd.     Lillie,  is  mar. 

9.  Samuel  B.,  b.  4  Apr.,  1840;  mar.  (1st)  23  Feb.,  1870,  Mary 
F.  Smith,  dau.  of  Freeman  B.  and  wife,  Louise  Babcock,  of  Mexico, 
Me.;  (2nd)  18  July,  189-,  Josephine  Watson,  nee  O'Brien.  Mr. 
Brackett  served  in  company  B,  5th  Me.  vol.  infantry  from  27  Apr., 
1 86 1,  to  27  July,  1864;  had  skull  fractured  while  in  line  of  duty;  by 
profession  was  a  lawyer;  for  several  years  was  in  the  civil  service  of 
the  Government  as  an  employe  in  the  Pension  bureau;  d.  16  June, 
1900.     No  issue: 

10.  Miriam,   never  mar.;   is  dec. 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From    Family    No.    3.     Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 

Thomas,  William,  Seth. 

Seth  Brackett  was  born  December  18,    1800,   in  that  part  of  the 

town  of  Falmouth  which  is  now  Westbrook,   Me.;    married   Nancy 

Stairbird  of  Scarboro,   born  October  11,    1810,  died  April   1,    1867. 


194  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

With  his  father,  Mr.  Brackett,  in  1815,  went  from  Westbrook  to 
Oxford  county.  He  lived  in  Dixfield;  was  a  farmer;  died  Septem- 
ber 3,  1875.      Issue: 

1.  Elmira,  b.  about   1827;  mar.  Charles  E.  Chubb;   lived  in  Dix- 
field, Me.,  where  she  d.  about  i860.     Issue: 

1st.     Elizabeth  E.,  b.  about  1848. 
2nd.     Charles  E.,  b.  about  1849. 
3d.     Neville,  b.  about  1S55. 

2.  Dwinal,  b.  12  Nov.,  1830.     No  further  record. 

3.  Eeonard,  b.  7  Jan.,  1837.     See  family  21. 

4.  Henry  W.,  b.  14  Apr.,  1843.      See  family  22. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From    Family    No.    3.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William,  Thomas. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  born  June  10,  1809,  in  Westbrook,  Me.; 
at  the  age  of  six  years,  with  others  of  his  father's  family,  went  to 
Peru,  Me.  He  married  August  2,  1835,  Emma  Cobb,  born  in  West- 
brook, Me.,  July  8,  1813;  is  deceased.  He  returned  to  Westbrook, 
where  he  died  February  22,  1855;  by  trade  was  a  stone  cutter.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  A.,  b.  4  Mar.,  1839,  in  Peru,  Me. 

2.  Angelina,  b.  4  Mar.,  1839,  in  Peru,  Me.;    mar. Hodsdon. 

3.  Amanda  R.,  b.  about  1843. 

4.  Marilla  M.,  b.  3  Apr.,    1848,   in  Westbrook,   Me.;  mar.  

Randall. 

5.  William  C,  b.  30  Oct.,  1847.     See  family  23. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From    Family    No.    3.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,    William,    Amos  S. 

Amos  Smith  Brackett  was  born  May  1,  1825,  in  Peru,  Me.  His 
first  employment  was  driving  stage;  later  he  worked  at  boiler-making; 
served  on  the  police  force  of  Biddeford,  and  at  one  time  was  its  cap- 
tain. During  the  civil  war  he  was  in  Springfield,  Mass.,  for  three 
years,  and  worked  for  the  Government  in  its  armory.  For  over  forty 
years  he  was  employed  in  cotton  mills,  generally  in  the  capacity  of 
watchman,  and  for  a  great  part  of  the  time  in  Saco,  which  city  was 
his  residence  at  the  time  of  his  death.  At  one  time  he  lived  in  L,ew- 
iston,  Me.  By  his  habit,  at  night,  of  closely  observing  the  heavens, 
be  became  able  quite  accurately  to  forecast  the  weather,  and  fre- 
quently made  his  predictions  differing  from  the  reports  of  the  weather 
bureau  with  the  satisfaction  in  the  end  of  knowing  that  he  had  fore- 
told correctly  what  the  weather  would  be.  In  the  year  1895,  after 
sixteen  years  continuous  servicers  night  watchman  in  the  York 
mills,  he  retired.  While  health  permitted,  his  pleasure  was  the  car- 
ing for  a  small  garden,  in  which  he  took  much  pride.  His  contin- 
uous faithful  service  won  him  numerous  friends;  his  memory  will  be 
cherished  longer  by  them  than  he  spent  years  on  duty  during  his 
life.  In  the  summer  of  1900,  he  entered  the  Maine  General  hospital 
at  Portland,  for  treatment.  The  amputation  of  a  leg  became  neces- 
sary, was   performed,   and   his  death  resulted   July    13th.     He  was 


THOMAS,    OF    MORRILL'S    CORNER  195 

united  in  marriage  with  Hannah  K.  Tibbetts,  in  Biddeford,  April  i, 
1850;  she  was  born  in  Berwick,  Me.,  May  23,  1828,  died  March  29, 
1904,  daughter  of  John  Tibbetts  and  wife,  Anna  Hussy.     Issue: 

1.  Annie  Marcenia,  b.  7  Jan.,  1851,  in  Biddeford,  Me.;  mar.  11 
Nov.,  1876,  in  Biddeford,  George  Allen  Haley,  b.  22  Apr.,  1851,  son 
of  William;  he  was  b.  1825,  d.  1875,  mar.  Olive  E.  Gatchell,  was  a 
shoemaker  of  Saco,  was  son  of  William;  he  was  b.  1793,  d.  1883,  mar. 
Betsey  Bryant,  was  a  farmer  of  Saco,  soldier  in  war  of  1812,  son  of 
Joseph;  he  was  b.  1762,  d.  1845,  mar.  Jemima  Tarbox,  served  in  War 
of  Revolution,  son  of  William;  he  mar.  Rachel  Edgecomb,  was  of 
Saco,  son  of  Benjamin;  he  mar.  Susanna,  d.  at  Eouisburg,  1745,  was 
sou  of  Thomas;  he  was  b.  in  1635,  mar.  Mary  West,  killed  by  Indians 
in  1724.  Mr.  Haley  has  resided  in  Maine,  Massachusetts,  and  Kan- 
sas; in  1902,  removed  to  California;  now  resides  in  San  Diego,  where 
he  is  a  restauranteur.     Issue: 

1st.     Herbert  Brackett,  b.  30  June,  1889,  in  Carmi,  Kansas. 

2.  Mindora  Idella,  b.  4  Oct.,  1859;  mar.  24  June,  1882,  Diamond 
Smith,  Jr.;  home,  in  Saco.     Child,  Ida  Miriam. 

3.  William  Randall,  b.  n  Mar.,  1861.     See  family  24. 

4.  Frances  Ella,  b.  14  Dec,  1862;  mar.  Ed.  Milliken;  home  in 
Saco.     Children,  Fred  E.;   Hattie;   Ruth  H.;  Arline  M. 

5.  Eoretta  Mariah,  b.  24  Feb.,  1865;  mar.  (1st)  James  Thompson; 
(2nd)  Joseph  Torrv.  Children  by  2nd  husband:  Ralph;  Josie  May; 
Sybil. 

FAMILY   NO.    11. 

From  Family  No.  3.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William,  Charles  W. 
Charles  W.  Brackett  was  born  in  Peru.  Me.;  is  an  overseer  in 
dressing  room,  cotton  factory;  married  Mary  Stone  of  Cornish;  re- 
sides in  Fall  River,  Mass.;  formerly  resided  in  Biddeford  and  Cor- 
nish,  Me.     Served  in  7th  Me.  vol.  inf.     Issue: 

1.  Etta;  mar.  Josiah  W.  Bridges  of  Biddeford;  now  resides  in 
Fall  River. 

2.  Eizzie,  dec.     )   . 

o      -cv        •        ,        ,-  twins. 

3.  Fannie,   dec.  j 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  No.  3.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William,  Peter. 
Peter  Brackett  was  born  in  Peru,  Me.,  on  March  4,  1838;  is  a 
machinist's  helper,  and  resides  in  Biddeford,  Me.;  formerly  resided 
in  Westbrook  and  Old  Orchard,  Me.  He  married  December  23, 
1865,  Elizabeth  J.  Merrill,  born  March  20,  1841,  daughter  of  William 
T.  and  wife,  Olive  J.  Goodwin,  of  Pine  Point,  Me.;  enlisted  April  26, 
1861,  into  company  B,  5th  Maine  volunteer  infantry,  in  which  he 
served  for  three  years;  re-enlisted  in  the  field,  was  transferred  to 
company  B,  1st  Maine  veterans,  in  which  he  served  until  June,  1865. 
His  father  was  a  soldier  in  the  War  of  the  Revolution.  Upon  tracing 
his  line  of  descent,  it  will  be  found  that  all  of  his  forefathers  by  the 
name  of  Brackett  were  soldiers,  two  of  whom  were  killed;  whose 
respective  service,  with  the  exception  of  that  of  the  immigrant,  is  set 


196  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

forth  in  this  work.  Mr.  Brackett  moves  as  quickly  as  a  man  of 
twenty-five  years,  and  he  looks  to  be  about  the  age  of  forty-five.  He 
is  of  dark  complexion,  medium  height,  spare  build,  and  is  quick 
spoken  —  a  man  who  has  nearly  completed  his  three  score  years  and 
ten,  with  the  activity  and  appearance  of  one  in  the  prime  of  life. 
Twenty  years  hence  he  will  be  with  us  to  speak  at  our  family 
reunions,  and  be  pointed  out  as  one  who  served  in  the  Civil  War 
and  whose  father  served    in  the  War  of   the  Revolution.     Issue: 

1.  Eva  May,  b.  17  Jan.,  1874;  mar.  25  Dec,  1894;  T.  W.  A. 
Smith. 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From    Family    No.    4.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,    Peter,    Peter,  Jr. 

Peter  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  February  27,  1788,  in  what  was 
then  a  part  of  Falmouth,  Me.  Probably  as  a  member  of  his  father's 
family  he  went  to  New  Gloucester,  Me.,  in  1812,  where  he  continued 
to  reside  during  his  life,  engaged  in  farming.  He  married  January 
13,  1817,  Polly  Haskell,  born  June  1,  1799,  died  December,  20,  1876. 
Mr.  Brackett  died  December  12,  1868.     Issue: 

1.  George,  b.  18  Jan.,  1820.     See  family  25. 

2.  Benjamin,  b.  10  Oct.,  1821.     See  family  26. 

3.  Mary  Jane,  b.  12  Feb.,  1824;  d.  29  Sept.,  1827. 

4.  Peter,  Jr.,  b.  20  Dec,  1825;  d.  4  Oct.,  1827. 

5.  Job,  b.  7  Sept.,  1827.     See  family  27. 

6.  John,  b.  7  Aug.,  1829;  lived  in  Nevada  city,  Col. 

7.  Mary,  b.  9  Oct.,  1831;  mar.  30  Apr.,  1858,  Joseph  C.  Brown, 
who  d.  in  1895.      Issue: 

1st.     George  E.,  b.  in  1858. 

2nd.     Tena,  b.  in  i860;  d.  in  1881. 

3d.     William,  b.  in  1862. 

8.  Charles,  b.  28  June,  1833;  address  not  known. 

9.  Louisa  Howard,  b.  4  Dec,  1835;  mar.  10  Jan.,  1857,  Samuel 
S.  Halowell,  b.  11  Feb.,  1832,  son  of  Ralph  and  wife,  Sarah  Smith. 
Mr.  Halowell  is  a  machinist  and  resides  in  Cumberland  Mills,  Me. 
Issue: 

1st.  Carrie  B.,  b.  2  May,  1862;  mar.  6  Dec,  1878,  Ed.  Ander- 
son; resides  in  Westbrook.     Issue: 

I.  Alice  Louise,  b.  28  May,  1880. 

II.  Harry  William,  b.  21  Dec,  1882. 

III.  Mary  Ethelene,  b.  31  Oct.,  1888. 

IV.  Joseph  Brown,  b.  25  June,  1891. 

V.  Elmer  Donald,  b.  29  Oct.,  1895. 

2nd.  Alice  G.,  b.  6  Oct.,  1865;  mar.  in  1884,  John  R.  Peterson; 
resides  in  Portland.     Issue: 

I.  Ina  Mildred,  b.  29  Nov.,  1885. 

II.  Clarence;  is  dec. 

3d.  George  H.,  b.  10  Apr.,  1866;  mar.  4  Feb.,  1893,  Mary 
Osgood  of  Gray,  Me;  resides  in  Westbrook,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Otis,  b.  in  1895. 

II.  Elmer  Eugene,  b.  in  1898. 


THOMAS,    OF    MORRILL'S    CORNER  197 

4th.     S.  Elizabeth,  b.  29  Jan.,  1868. 

5th.  Howard,  b.  17  Apr.,  1870;  mar.  10  Sept.,  — — ,  Lizzie  H. 
Berry  of  Fairfield,  Me. 

6th.  Ida  G.,  b.  10  Nov.,  1872;  mar.  30  Apr.,  1891,  Frank 
Elwell;  resides  in  Westbrook.     Issue: 

I.  Gertrude  E.,  b.  in  1892. 

II.  Ira  Joyce,  b.  in  1895. 

7th.  Eva,  b.  13  Feb.,  1875;  mar.  in  1895,  Arthur  Jordan; 
resides  in  Westbrook.     Issue: 

I.     Ella  Louise,  b.  in  1895. 
8th.     Charles  H.,  b.  23  Jan.,  1877. 
10.     Thomas  Johnson,  b.  11  Apr.,  1839;   unmar.     Mrs.  Louisa  H. 
Halowell  supplied  data  as  to  her  own  and  her  father's  families;  also 
as  to  families  of  her  children. 


FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From    Family    No.    4.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  Peter,  Zachariah. 

Zachariah  Brackett  was  born  near  Morrill's  corner,  then  in  the 
town  of  Falmouth,  March  16,  1790.  He  probably  resided  with  his 
father  until  the  removal  of  the  latter  to  New  Gloucester,  in  18 12. 
The  census  of  18 10  shows  him  and  his  two  brothers  as  members  of 
his  father's  family,  all  between  the  ages  of  sixteen  and  twenty-six 
years.  Upon  his  marriage  he  lived  for  several  years  in,  or  near, 
Westbrook.  The  census  of  1 830  shows  him  and  his  brother  Nathaniel, 
living  in  Sangerville,  Penobscot  county;  later  he  returned  to  the 
locality  where  Deering  city  now  is,  and  where  he  died  in  1832.  He 
was  a  tin-smith.  He  married  February  3,  1814,  Mary  Cleaves,  born 
in  1792;  died  December  6,  1839.     Issue: 

1.  Miranda,  b.  in  1816;  mar.  10  June,  1833,  Enos  Brackett  (see 
family  10,  division  3). 

2.  Mary  Ann,  b.  20  Apr.,  1820;  mar.  (1st)  Major  Franklin  Bar- 
ton of  Albion,  Me.;  (2nd)  Jacob  Shaw  of  China  Me.;  (3d)  Asa 
Crossman  of  Cato,  N.  Y.;  d.  2  Feb.,  1890.     No  issue. 

3.  Cornelius,  b.  6  June,  1824.     See  family  28. 

4.  Martha  H.,  b.  4  July,  1826;  mar.  Thomas  Warren  of  Vicks- 
burg,  Miss.;  she  is  probably  dec. 

5.  Cephas  W.,  b.  21  May,  1828.     See  family  29. 

6.  Charles,  b.  1832;   d.  14  Aug.,  1858. 


FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From    Family    No.    4.       Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  Peter,  Nathaniel. 

Nathaniel  Brackett  was  born  March  16,  1792,  in  Falmouth,  Me. 
In  1820,  he  wTas  a  resident  of  New  Gloucester,  and  in  1830,  resided 
with  his  brother  Zachariah,  in  Sangerville,  Penobscot  county,  Me. 
Eater  he  lived  in  East  Eivermore;  was  a  farmer.  He  married  Jan- 
uary 8,  1815,  Eunice  Humphrey,  born  October  7,  1794,  died  January 
8,  1843,  daughter  of  Moses  and  wife,  Ann  Young.  He  died  June  24, 
1874.     Issue: 


198  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Sarah  Ann,  b.  19  Sept.,  1815.  In  1890  and  1892  she  wrote 
letters,  which  were  published  in  the  "Deering  News."  They  are  a 
standard  source  of  authority  upon  the  family  genealogy  of  which  they 
treat.  She  wrote  with  decided  clearness  and  terseness  of  expression; 
manifested  much  interest  in  the  family  history  and  faithfully  men- 
tioned the  sources  of  authority  for  what  she  related  and  was  not  known 
to  her  personally.  The  following  is  one  of  the  paragraphs  of  her 
letters  teeming  with  information: 

"My  grandfather,  Peter  Brackett,  married  Sally  Sawyer  of  Back 
Cove.  He  moved  to  West  Gloucester,  this  state,  before  I  was  born, 
and  I  am  seventy-six  years  of  age.  They  both  died  there.  He  was 
a  soldier  of  the  War  of  the  Revolution.  I  used  to  hear  him  say  that 
he  was  one  of  the  number  who  guarded  Major  Andre's  place  of 
execution." 

She  wanted  to  know  whether  any  of  the  old  town  of  Westbrook 
remained  a  town,  or  whether  it  was  "all  cut  up  into  cities."  She 
closed  her  last  letter  with:  — 

"I  live  in  the  house  used  by  Mrs.  Jane  Prince(?).  She  is  one 
year  older  than  I  am.  I  was  born  Sept.  21,  1815.  The  place  is  five 
miles  from  the  depot.  The  stage  to  North  Auburn,  Brettness'  Mills 
and  West  Auburn,  goes  past  my  door  twice  a  day." 

The  task  of  compiling  the  family  history  would  have  been  a  far 
easier  one  than  it  has  proved,  had  there  been  more  who  had  taken 
the  pains  to  impart  what  they  knew  of  it.     She  d.  19  Apr.,  1895. 

2.  Melinda  Jane,  b.  in  1817;  mar.  Charles  Merrill;  she  d.  in  1848. 

3.  Oliver,  b.  19  Nov.,  1820.     See  family  30. 

4.  Leonard,  b.  in  1822;  d.  2  Oct.,  1849. 

5.  Sewall,  b.  8  July,  1825;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1857,  Eliza  J.  Lyon,  b. 
14  June,  1836,  dau.  of  Jefferson  B.  and  wife,  Almira  G.  Beach;  resides 
in  Poland,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.  Georgiana  Myra,  b.  22  Feb.,  1861;  mar.  Almon  Water- 
house,  Poland,  Me. 

2nd.     Eugenia,  b.  15  Aug.,  1865;   d.  2  July,  1885. 

6.  George,  b.  2  July,  1829;  mar.  6  Sept.,  1857,  Viola  Lathrop, 
b.  18  Jan.,  1841,  dau.  of  Martin  P.  and  wife,  Sarah  W.  He  served 
in  2nd  Maine  volunteer  cavalry.  At  New  Orleans  was  transferred 
to  Farragut's  fleet,  where  he  served  until  the  close  of  the  war.  Went 
to  California  in  1852,  and  returned  before  1861.  The  last  years  of 
his  life  were  spent  in  Oregon;   is  dec.     Issue: 

1st.  Leonard  F.,  b.  30  Dec,  1858;  served  as  sergeant  of  the 
band,  6th  United  States  cavalry,  from  13  Jan.,  1880,  to  12  Jan.,  1885. 
He  d.  28  Feb.,  1897. 

7.  Charles  Edwin,  b.  3  Sept.,  1832.     See  family  31. 

8.  Louisa  Ellen,  b.  12  Sept.,  1835;  mar.  Lathrop  C.  Tilton;  resi- 
dence, Auburn,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Isabelle,  who  mar.  Alvin  Flagg. 
2nd.     Emma. 
3d.     Cornelia. 


THOMAS,     OF     MORRILL'S    CORNER  199 

FAMILY    NO.    16. 

From    Family    No.    5.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  John  S.,  John,  Jr.,  Levi. 

The  Rev.  Levi  Braekett  was  born  near  Duck  pond  in  Westbrook, 
Me.,  November  27,  1813;  died  in  Lewiston,  Me.,  December  29,  1890. 
Years  after  had  been  removed  the  house  where  he  was  born,  he  used 
to  point  out  a  cherry  tree  which  grew  in  the  cellar,  that  marked  its 
site;  also  would  show  a  ravine  across  which  was  once  stretched  a 
rope,  the  supporting  cable  of  a  suspended  chair  which,  on  rollers, 
passed  along  and  beneath  it,  thus  making  the  transit  of  the  ravine. 
Topers  at  the  tavern  near  by  drank  so  long  as  they  were  able  to  keep 
from  falling  out  of  the  chair,  and  in  their  bouts  gauged  one  another's 
ability  to  stand  one  drink  more  by  the  test  whether  or  not  they  could 
cross  the  ravine  by  this  serial  route. 

When  he  was  thirteen  the  family  bought  a  farm  in  what  had 
been  a  great  hemlock  forest,  four  miles  north  of  Brunswick  village, 
and  this  continued  to  be  his  home  until  his  marriage. 

The  father  was  a  shoemaker;  in  early  days  he  went  from  house 
to  house  making  shoes  for  the  neighboring  families.  He  was  some- 
thing of  a  visionary,  leaving  the  care  of  the  land  to  the  wife  and 
boys.  Levi's  wife  first  saw  John  Braekett  in  1853,  and  wrote  in  her 
diary  January  3:  "Mr.  B.'s  father  is  the  greatest  talker  upon  relig- 
ious subjects  that  I  ever  met  with;  he  does  not  seem  interested  in 
any  other  conversation.  He  talks  as  if  Heaven  and  its  enjoyments 
were  his  at  all  times  and  ever  before  him." 

The  mother  was  a  good  business  woman,  keeping  poultry  and 
marketing  the  produce  of  the  farm. 

Levi  united  the  ecstatic  temperament  of  the  father  w7ith  the  cool 
business  ways  of  the  mother,  and  also  developed  a  new  trait  in  the 
family  —  a  love  for  learning.  The  mother  thrift  appeared  first.  As 
a  boy,  the  eldest  of  twelve  children,  he  was  kept  busy  on  the  farm; 
but  he  looked  out  for  jobs  at  the  neighbors,  and  what  money  he  got 
he  put  into  a  double  chest;  with  these  savings  he  bought  land  adjoin- 
ing the  home  property.  When  he  came  of  age  he  worked  out  days 
and  carried  on  his  own  farm  nights,  one  of  his  sisters  holding  the 
lantern  for  him.  He  was  ambitious  to  acquire  wealth,  and,  at  a  time 
of  life  when  most  men  think  of  beginning,  he  had  a  good  farm  free 
from  debt. 

He  had  a  strong  constitution  and  was  seldom  unable  to  work; 
but  when  he  was  laid  up,  then  the  spirit  of  his  father  came  upon  him. 
Once  he  ran  a  burnt  stub  into  his  bare  foot  and  suffered  intensely  for 
days;  during  this  period  he  repented  of  his  sins  and  sought  religion. 
Another  time  he  was  at  a  "raising;"  liquor  was  free,  and  a  drunken 
workman  let  a  timber  fall  upon  his  head;  when  the  wound  healed,  a 
white  tuft  of  hair  appeared  upon  the  spot,  a  life-long  mark;  and 
strange  to  say,  one  of  his  daughters  grew  the  white  lock  after  him. 
While  suffering  from  this  accident,  he  resolved  to  quit  liquor,  a 
strange  thing  to  do  in  those  days;  and  he  decided  to  fit  for  the  min- 
istry. As  soon  as  he  was  able,  he  walked  four  miles  to  a  book  store, 
bought  a  Greek  grammar,  and  learned  the  alphabet  on  the  way  home. 

Entering  the  ministry  meant  selling  his  farm  and  putting  his 
savings  into  an  education.     The  great  choice  was  not  made  without 


200  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

a  struggle:  "Some  time  within  the  first  three  months  of  the  year 
1839,  I  verily  believe  the  Lord  converted  my  soul.  Some  time  after 
my  soul  was  converted  I  was  in  the  orchard  (I  do  not  recollect  the 
time  of  day;  it  was  in  the  day  time);  there  came  a  voice  to  me  as 
plain  as  though  some  one  had  spoken  to  me,  Proclaim  the  gospel! 
After  this,  when  I  was  engaged  in  prayer,  especially  in  secret  prayer, 
this  sound  would  thrill  through  my  soul.  Finally  I  concluded  that 
it  was  all  imagination  and  tried  to  drive  it  off,  and  thought  it  was 
from  the  devil.  I  thought  the  Lord  would  not  be  so  unreasonable. 
And  another  thing,  the  word  was  not  Preach;  so  there  I  picked  a 
flaw  in  it,  and  I  put  it  away  from  my  mind  as  far  as  possible." 

His  gifts  in  laboring  for  the  conversion  of  others,  going  from 
house  to  house,  led  the  church  to  give  him  a  license  to  preach,  Sep- 
tember, 1843.  The  following  June  he  received  a  license  from  the 
Bowdoin  quarterly  meeting,  which  was  renewed  each  year  until  his 
ordination. 

During  the  interval  between  his  first  license  and  his  ordination, 
he  attended  the  Brunswick  high  school  one  yearT  and  then  took  the 
three  year  course  of  the  Whitestown  Biblical  school;  he  graduated 
in  1849,  and  in  October  of  that  year  was  ordained  at  Brunswick. 

Immediately  after  ordination,  he  became  pastor  of  a  church  at 
Saccarappa,  Maine.  The  church  was  undergoing  severe  trials.  He 
labored  hard  to  reconcile  the  conflicting  elements;  anxiety  and  over 
work  broke  down  his  health,  and  in  a  few  months  he  returned  to  his 
home  with  no  hope  of  recovering  his  strength;  but  after  a  severe  ill- 
ness of  three  months  he  began  to  get  well.  By  care  he  developed  a 
powerful  physique  and  lived  to  preach  forty  years. 

His  next  pastorate  was  at  North  Parsonsfield,  then  the  literary 
center  of  the  Free  Will  Baptist  denomination.  Maine  state  semi- 
nary and  Bates  college  were  not  started  until  after  Parsonsfield  semi- 
nary w7as  burned. 

In  1852,  G.  H.  Richer  entered  upon  his  last  year  as  principal  of 
Parsonsfield  seminary,  and  in  November  of  that  year,  Miss  Nancy 
Jane  Cram  of  Brownfield  received  her  diploma.  Her  course  of  study 
included  Sallust,  Cicero,  Virgil,  French,  Italian,  Spanish,  and  the 
mathematics,  science,  intellectual  and  moral  philosophy  of  those 
days.  She,  like  the  preacher,  had  won  her  own  way,  beginning  to 
teach  when  very  young  at  a  dollar  and  a  quarter  a  week.  She 
devoted  her  entire  energies  to  acquiring  the  best  education  then 
within  the  reach  of  a  woman  in  Maine.  She  first  met  the  snapping 
black  eyes  of  the  preacher  as  he  was  conducting  a  prayer  meeting; 
their  fates  were  united. 

A  portrait  of  the  time  shows  a  sweetly  noble  woman,  her  left 
hand  holding  a  book,  her  shoulders  neatly  draped  with  an  India 
shawl,  her  well  proportioned  features  framed  in  dark  brown  hair 
parted  in  the  middle  and  smoothly  brought  forward  at  the  temples. 
The  attitude  is  queenly,  recalling  the  best  early  portraits  of  Victoria; 
but  the  face  is  purer,  wiser.  This  girl  who  had  dropped  corn,  bare- 
foot, in  the  ashes  of  the  newly  burnt  American  forest  had  in  her  looks 
some  of  the  elusive  mystery  of  the  wildwood;  yes,  some  of  the  seri- 
ous sanctity  of  the  earl}-  Italian  madonnas. 

He  was  of  medium  height,  solid  and  well  proportioned.  His 
portrait  at  this  time  shows  a  man  of  strong  character;  the  forehead  is 


THOMAS,    OF    MORRILL'S    CORNER  201 

high;  the  abundant  black  hair  is  parted  low  at  the  side;  his  face 
clean  shaven  to  the  tip  of  the  chin  is  circled  with  a  neatly  cut  black 
Greeley  beard;  the  eyebrows  are  vigorous;  the  lines  of  character  are 
strong,  showing  signs  of  illness,  but  the  mouth  is  firm.  The  domi- 
nant note  is  given  by  the  piercing  eyes.  He,  too,  has  a  book  in  his 
picture.  On  an  hour-glass  stand  lies  his  Hebrew  Bible.  One  shapely 
hand  lies  across  the  damask  covering  so  that  the  thumb  holds  down 
the  top  of  the  leaf;  the  other  hand  lies  flat  upon  the  page  as  if  to 
emphasize  a  text. 

They  were  married  on  the  Christmas  day  after  her  graduation. 
The  two  weeks  following  were  spent  in  visiting  the  Bracketts  at 
Brunswick,  the  Baileys  at  Freeport,  the  Sylvesters  at  Bath,  and  in 
attending  many  religious  meetings.  vShe  naively  wrote  in  her  diary 
January  12,  1853:  "Returned  to  Parsonsfield  last  night;  am  some 
weary  after  so  long  a  visit,  still  I  feel  to  rejoice  that  I  visited  the 
East." 

vShe  had  excellent  qualifications  for  her  position:  she  was 
remarkably  capable  in  domestic  administration  and  economy;  she 
was  an  efficient  organizer  and  administrator  in  the  branches  of  church 
work  that  fall  to  women;  she  was  a  good  reader,  writer  and  speaker, 
a  good  singer  and  player.  The  two  could  carry  on  an  interesting 
devotional  meeting,  if  need  be,  without  help  from  others. 

In  the  fall  of  1853,  the  young  wife,  though  not  in  good  health, 
was  called  upon  by  the  seminary  authorities  to  organize  the  classes 
in  French,  Spanish,  Italian,  geometry,  geography,  history  and 
astronomy;  and  she  conducted  recitations  until  a  preceptress  could 
be  secured.  This  was  her  last  public  teaching  but  she  often  had 
pupils  come  to  the  house.  One  of  the  earliest  recollections  of  her 
oldest  child  is  a  certain  awe  and  mystery  at  being  in  the  dark  as  his 
mother  pointed  out  to  a  class  of  young  ladies  the  Great  Bear  and 
other  constellations  with  frightful  names.  Many  a  young  man  and 
woman  got  the  first  start  toward  a  college  education  at  the  minister's 
house. 

In  August,  1853,  he  preached  his  farewell  sermon  at  North  Par- 
sonsfield. He  then  travelled  some  seven  hundred  miles  in  New7 
York  and  Canada,  leaving  his  wife  at  her  father's.  His  pastorates 
were  at  Saccarappa,  North  Parsonsfield,  East  Raymond,  Sandwich, 
Wolfboro,  Sabatisville,  Bow  Lake,  Georgetown,  Newfield,  and  New 
Meadows.  He  travelled  extensively  as  a  missionary  in  Aroostook 
and  as  an  evangelist  along  the  coast  of  Maine  and  northward  in  the 
western  counties  of  Maine  and  the  eastern  counties  of  New  Hamp- 
shire. 

He  was  a  powerful  speaker,  and  God  blessed  his  labors  with 
many  conversions.  He  was  recalled  and  settled  a  second  time  over 
the  churches  at  North  Parsonsfield,  Raymond  and  Georgetown.  He 
spoke  with  few  notes,  appealing  directly  to  men  and  women  by  his 
knowledge  of  the  heart.  He  had  a  good  library  and  was  in  advance 
of  the  theology  of  his  day,  seeking  right  living  rather  than  the 
sacredness  of  dogma.  He  was  often  sent  for  in  those  trials  more  bit- 
ter than  death,  and  leaving  his  affairs  he  travelled  long  journeys 
in  order  to  bind  up  the  broken  hearted.  He  was  silent  about  these 
things,  and  men  and  women  trusted  him.  In  reading  in  Mark  the 
promise  of  a  hundred  fold  to  those  who  leave  houses  and  lands  for 


202  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

the  gospel's  sake,  he  would  say,  "I  have  more  than  the  promise; 
I  have  a  thousand  homes." 

He  also  furnished  a  home  to  man}-.  The  Free  Baptist  preachers 
were  great  pilgrims;  four  times  a  year  they  made  journeys  to  the 
quarterly  meeting  and  a  longer  trip  once  a  year  to  the  yearly  meet- 
ing; then  they  often  moved  from  one  pastorate  to  another.  On  all 
these  journeys  and  many  others  they  depended  on  the  local  preachers 
for  meals  and  lodging.  One  night  there  were  at  the  Brackett  house 
twenty-one,  sleeping  on  beds,  lounges,  and  on  the  floors;  it  was  after 
midnight  when  some  arrived  with  loads  of  goods.  Many  of  the 
children  of  his  brothers  and  sisters  at  one  time  or  another  lived  with 
Uncle  Levi  and  Aunt  Jane  in  order  to  take  advantage  of  better 
schools.  Toward  the  close  of  his  life  he  made  his  home  at  Lewiston, 
Maine,  to  be  near  Bates  college,  from  which  institution  four  of  his 
children  graduated. 

The  end  of  his  life  shows  an  instance  of  his  perseverance  in  the 
discharge  of  duty.  The  last  two  months  of  his  active  ministry  were 
spent  with  the  church  at  Ashdale,  a  coast  town  which  he  reached  by 
water.  On  the  seventh  of  June,  1890,  the  sea  was  rough;  but  he 
crossed  in  an  open  boat,  getting  thoroughly  drenched  and  chilled. 
He  began  to  suffer  intensely  from  cystitis,  but  in  spite  of  his  age  and 
pain,  on  the  following  Sabbath  he  preached  his  last  sermon  from  2 
Cor.  5:10 — "For  we  must  all  appear  before  the  judgment  seat  of 
Christ,  that  every  one  may  receive  the  things  done  in  his  body 
according  to  that  which  he  hath  done  whether  it  be  good  or  bad." 
He  then  wrote  in  his  diary,  "I  expect  this  is  my  last  sermon."  The 
next  day  he  returned  to  his  home;  he  died  after  an  illness  of  nearly 
seven  months. 

Levi  Brackett  is  buried  with  his  parents,  wife,  and  four  of  his 
children  at  the  Grousetown  cemetery  in  Brunswick.  He  was  a  vig- 
orous opponent  of  evil,  but  he  loved  men  and  did  not  make  personal 
enemies.  One  of  the  good  things  said  at  his  funeral  was  this,  "I 
have  known  Brother  Brackett  for  fifty  years,  and  I  have  never  heard 
him  speak  evil  of  any  one." 

Mrs.  Brackett  survived  her  husband  seven  years.  She  was  born 
in  Brownfield  April  12,  1827  and  died  in  Lewiston  November  6,  1897, 
daughter  of  James  Cram  and  wife,  Dorothy  Smith.     Issue: 

1.  James  R.,  b.  1  Apr.,  1854.     See  family  32. 

2.  Levi  Smith,  b.  14  Mar.,  1856;  d.  15  Aug.,  1856. 

3.  Levi  Fairfield,  b.  11  July,  1858;  d.  22  Jan.,  i860. 

4.  Anna  Maria,  b.  18  May,  1861;  mar.  10  Aug.,  1898,  A.  L.  Den- 
nison,  b.  13  Apr.,  1867,  a  teacher;  home,  in  Exeter,  N.  H.  A  grad- 
uate of  Bates  college.     Issue: 

1st.     Theodora,  b.  11  Oct.,  1899,  in  E.  Corinth,  Me. 
2nd.     Mary  Leona,  b.  11  Jan.,  1904,  in  Bath,  Me. 
3d.     Harry  Brackett,  b.  22  July,  1905. 

5.  Harriet,  b.  13  Sept.,  1863;  a  graduate  of  Bates  college;  home, 
in  Lewiston,  Me. 

6.  Jennie  Cram,  b.  12  Jan.,  1866;  d.  23  Oct.,  1877. 

7.  Clara  Frances,  b.  16  Juty,  1868;  d.  2  Oct.,  1869. 

8.  Calvin  Cressey,  b.  3  Oct.,  1870;  a  graduate  of  Bates  college; 
served  as  sergeant  in  battery  A,  First  Maine  heavy  artillery  volun- 
teers, war  with  Spain;  resided  in  Lewiston;  now  in  Boston. 


THOMAS,     OF     MORRILL'S     CORNER  203 

FAMILY    NO.    17. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Thomas,  John  S.,  John,  Jr.,  Silas. 

Silas  Brackett  was  born  February  2,  1818,  in  Falmouth;  died  in 
Brunswick,  January  25,  1888;  he  purchased  a  farm  adjoining  his 
father's  farm,  the  greater  portion  of  which  was  uncleared  land.  He 
built  expensive  buildings,  added  to  his  purchase  and  in  time  became 
the  owner  of  a  fine  property.  For  many  years  he  was  engaged  in 
lumbering,  in  getting  out  and  furnishing  ship  timber  for  the  Bath 
market  and  at  points  along  the  shores  of  Casco  bay.  He  was  a  man 
of  quick  sensibilities,  generous  impulses  and  kind  disposition;  his 
early  training  fitted  him  for  the  industrious  life  he  led.  For  many 
years  he  was  a  member  of  the  Free  Will  Baptist  church.  He  mar- 
ried (1st)  September  17,  1845,  Elizabeth  Bennet  Field,  born  January 
10,  1815,  in  Durham,  Me.,  died  January  23,  1854,  daughter  of 
Stephen;  he  was  born  April  13,  1787,  in  Lewiston,  d.  July  9,  1820, 
in  Alexandria,  Va.,  married  Sally  Wyman  (Merrill);  she  was  born 
October  20,  1793  in  Portland;  was  son  of  Samuel;  he  was  born  June 
21,  1759,  died  January  11,  [854;  was  a  tanner  and  shoe  maker  in 
Durham  where  he  lived  all  his  life;  had  large  tannery,  ground  bark 
in  mill  run  by  overshot  wheel;  married  Anna  Knox,  born  August  2, 
1 76 1,  died  June  21,  1X45,  was  son  of  Samuel.  He  was  born  in  1725, 
married  Mary  Warren;  was  a  descendant  of  Darby  Field,  the  first  of 
the  line  in  America,  born  1610,  in  Boston  in  1636,  first  European  to 
explore  White  mountains,  which  he  did  in  1642,  d.  in  1649;  ancestry 
can  be  traced  to  Roger  de  Field,  born  1240. 

Silas  Brackett  married  (2nd)  February  13,  1855,  Sarah  D. 
Sawyer,  born  March  10,  1S31,  in  Topsham,  died  April  5,  1898,  cous- 
in of  first  wife,  daughter  of  Ezra  Sawyer  and  Sarah  Field,  who  was 
daughter  of  Samuel,  and  sister  of  Stephen  Field.     Issue: 

1.  George  A.,  b.  21  Oct.,  1846.     See  family  33. 

2.  John  Henry,  b.  31  Jan.,  1849;  d.  10  Aug.,  1891;  was  a  mer- 
chant tailor  in  Brunswick;  mar.  12  Jan.,  1882,  Hattie  P.  Toothaker. 
Issue: 

1st.     John  Herbert,  b.  26  Dec,  1882;  d.  19  Feb.,  1892. 
2nd.     Frank  Wellington,  b.  17  Nov.,  1890. 

3.  Frances  Elizabeth,  b.  23  Apr.,  1851;  d.  10  Oct.,  1869. 

4.  Abby  Anna,  b.  11  Feb.,  1853;  d.  23  Jan.,  1854. 

5.  Silas  Wellington,  b.  20  Jan.,  1856;  d.  24  Sept.,  1906;  resided 
in  Roxbury,  Mass.;  member  of  the  G.  A.  and  S.  W.  Brackett  com- 
pany; sergeant  in  the  Ancient  and  Honorable  Artillery  company; 
member  of  Boston  National  lancers;  Old  Dorchester  club;  Royal 
Arcanum;  Ancient  Order  of  United  Workmen;  Highland  colony  of 
Pilgrim  Fathers;  was  worshipful  master  of  Washington  lodge,  F. 
and  A.  M.;  member  of  Yeruon  Royal  Arch  chapter;  Roxbury  coun- 
cil of  Royal  and  Select  Masters,  and  eminent  commander  of  Joseph 
Warren  commandery  No.  26,  Knight  Templars.  Married  15  June, 
1881,  Emma  P.  Dunning,  who  d.  11  Jan.,  1883;  mar.  (2nd)  25  Dec, 
1895,  Mrs.  Bertha  Arnold  Ellenwood. 

6.  Emma  A.,  b.  30  Jan.,  i860;  d.  7  Sept.,  1898;  mar.  14  Dec, 
1895,  Fred  A.  Nichols.     No  issue. 

7.  Hattie  May,  b.  21  Dec,  1862;   home  in  Roxbury. 


204  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

8.  Sarah  Gertrude,  b.   12  Mar.,  1868;  mar.   8  June,  1893,  Irving 
Parker  Gammon.     Issue: 

1st.     Irving  Parker,  Jr.,  b.  11  Oct.,  1895,  in  Boston. 

9.  Elizabeth  Marian,  b.  25  Nov.,  1870;  home  in  Roxbury. 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From    Family    No.    5.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  John  S.,  John,  Jr.,  Alexander. 

Alexander  Brackett  was  born  in  Westbrook,  Me.,  May  19,  182 1, 
removed  to  Des  Moines,  Iowa,  in  1864,  where  he  died  May  21,  1882. 
In  Maine  he  was  engaged  in  quarrying,  lumbering  and  building — 
general  contractor;  after  his  removal  to  Iowa,  he  was  largely  inter- 
ested in  real  estate,  in  speculating  in  and  developing  land;  was  an 
active  business  man;  by  instinct  and  training  was  well  fitted  for  life 
in  the  West.  Married  (1st)  in  1842,  Almira  Loak,  born  in  1823  in 
Addison,  Me.,  died  December  31,  1861,  in  Freeport,  Me.;  (2nd)  July 
24,  1862,  Harriet  E.  Eoak,  who  died  May  8,  1892,  in  Des  Moines, 
la.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  A.,  b.    11   Nov.,  1843;  d.  in  Aug.,  1867,  in  Brunswick; 
mar.  Miciah  H.  Bailey.     No  issue. 

2.  Alesto,  b.  24  Mar.,  1846,  in  Addison,  Me.,  d.  in  Eewiston  in 
1865;  served  during  civil  war. 

3.  Andrew  R.,  b.  13  Jan.,  1848.     See  family  34. 

4.  Alice  S.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1853;  d.  10  Mar.,  1898;  mar.  1  Apr.,  1871, 
Isaac  M.  Bishop.     No  issue. 

5.  Venie  Inez,   b.  11   Apr.,    1857;  mar.    29   Nov.,    1879,   J.    Fred 
Aubens.     Issue: 

1st.     John  Fred,  b.  13  Oct.,  1889,  in  Brunswick. 

2nd.     Carroll  Vincent,  b.  3  Dec,  1896,  in  Freeport,  Me. 

6.  Hattie  Ellen,  b.  2  Apr.,  1858;  mar.  (1st)  in  Dec,  1880,  George 
P.  Field;    (2nd)  18  Dec,  1900,  George  Ansel  Davis.     Issue: 

1st.     Ruth  Almira,  b.  16  June,  1882,  in  Freeport,  Me. 
2nd.     George  Alesto,  b.  20  Feb.,  1885;  in  Freeport,  Me. 
3d.     Harry,  b.  1  Aug.,  1886;   d.  3  Oct.,  1897. 

7.  Fannie  M.,  b.  24  Mar.,   1861;   mar.  in  1862,  Wm.  Hyde.     No 
issue. 

8.  Fred  M.,  b.  25  Nov.,  1863,  in  Dewiston;  d.  28  Dec,  1863. 

9.  Winfred  A.,  b.   26  June,    1865;   mar.   26  Dec,    1895,   Florence 
Anthony  Beck.     Issue: 

1st.     Anthony  Alexander,  b.  2  Feb.,  1901;  d.  4  Feb.,  1901. 

10.  Miltmore  J.,  b.  16  Sept.,  1868.     See  family  35. 

11.  Jennie  Maud,  b.  22  Oct.,   1870;   mar.   14  June,   1900,  Charles 
Elgin  Evans.     Issue: 

1st.     Dorothy  E.,  b.  2  Sept.,  1903. 

12.  Edd    Merrit,    b.    21    Oct.,    1872;   mar.    31    Oct.,    1893,    Nora 
Wykoff.     Issue: 

1st.     Fred,  b.  9  Oct.,  1898. 


THOMAvS,    OF    MORRILL'S    CORNER  205 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From    Family   No.    5.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  John  Snow,  John,  Jr.,  John,  Jr. 

John  Braekett,  Jr.,  was  born  in  Westbrook,  January  23,  1823;  he 
moved  from  Maine  to  New  York  and  from  the  latter  state  to  Iowa; 
died  in  Omaha,  August  29,  1867;  was  a  mechanic;  married  Novem- 
ber 18,  1850,  Emeline  Clapper,  born  November  6,  1836,  daughter  of 
William  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Van  Note,  of  New  York.     Issue: 

1.  Charlotte  Dorcas,  b.  July  30,  1848,  in  Brunswick;  mar.  (1st) 
13  July,  1868,  William  J.  Johnstone,  b.  in  1848,  d.  in  1880;  (2nd)  18 
June,  1884,  John  E.  McKillop;   residence,  Kansas  City,  Mo.     Issue: 

1st.  Maudie  E.,  b.  15  Aug.,  1872;  mar.  18  Aug.,  1892,  Charles 
W.  Blier. 

2.  Abbie  Ann,  b.  7  Aug.,  1859;  mar.  Ernest  Kelly;  residence, 
Bath,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Frank  Braekett,  b.  16  Aug.,  1889. 
.3.     Addie,  b.  3  May,  1853;   d.  in  Nov.,  1863. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From    Family    No.    6.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas.  William,  William,  Willard. 

Willard  Braekett  was  born  February,  22,  18 15;  married  Decem- 
ber 29,  1836,  Olive  Dow,  born  in  1814;  he  lived  in  Cape  Elizabeth, 
was  a  farmer;  died  April  30,  1864.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  Perry,  b.  8  Apr.,  1838;  mar.  14  May,  1863,  Sarah 
Frances  Leightou,  b.  in  Gorham,  22  June,  1843,  daughter  of  Ichabod 
of  Falmouth  and  wife,  Emily  J.  Small,  of  Limington.  Mr.  Braekett 
is  a  locomotive  engineer  on  the  B.  &  M.  R.  R.     No  issue. 

2.  Albert  S.,  b.  17  Jan.,  [840;   mar.;  d.  in  1893.     No  issue. 

3.  Byron  B.,  b.  4  Apr.,  1842.     See  family  36. 

4.  Helen  M.,  b.  18  June,  1845,  in  Cape  Elizabeth;  mar.  14  Oct., 
1865,  Charles  E.  Shillings,  b.  to  July,  1844,  son  of  Walter  and  wife, 
Mary  Jordan,  of  Cape  Elizabeth;  resides  in   South  Portland.     Issue: 

1st.  Alphonso  H.,  b.  5  Mar.,  1867;  mar.  26  June,  1890,  Sadie 
Lewis.     Issue: 

I.  Ralph  Waldo,  b.  24  June,  1891. 

II.  Marv  Helen,  b.  22  Aug.,  1894. 

III.  Carl  Rudolph,  b.  15  July,  1896. 

IV.  Charles  William,  b.  30  Nov.,  1899. 

2nd.  Martha  C,  b.  14  Aug..  1875;  mar.  27  June,  1900,  Charles 
M.  McDonald;  resides  in  Somerville  Highlands,  Mass. 

5.  Marshal  L.,  b.  7  Apr.,  1849;  d.  in  1851. 

6.  Willard,  Jr.,  b.  24  Oct.,  1854.     See  family  37. 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From  Family  No.  8.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William,  Seth,  Leonard. 
Leonard  Braekett  was  born  January  7,  1837;  married  (1st)  Feb- 
ruary 19,  1866,  Eliza  E.  Hopkins,  born  April  20,  1848,  died  March  6, 
1872",  daughter  of  Calvin  and  wife,  Mary  Hammond,  of  Peru,  Me.; 
(2nd)  Jan.  27,  1874,  Lucinda  E.  Smith,  daughter  of  Freeman  B.  and 


20G  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

wife,   Iyouisa  Babcock;   she  died  March  20,    1880;  was  building  con- 
tractor;  resided  in  Dicksfield;  died  March  12,  1900.     Issue: 

1.  George  F.,  b.  9  Jan.,  1876. 

2.  Irving  L,.,  b.  23  Dec,  1879. 

FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From    Family    No.    8.       Descent:      Anthony,     Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William,  Seth,  Henry  W. 

Henry  Willis  Brackett  was  born  April  14,    1843;   married  Decem- 
ber 16,  1874,  Lmcetta  M.  Dolloff,  born  December  15,    1846,   daughter 
of  James  M.  and  wife,   Sarah  D-  Gleason,  of  Rumford  Center,  Oxford 
county,  Me.;  is  a  farmer;  residence,  Dicksfield.     Issue: 
1.     Klaus  Kyle,  b.  19  Feb.,  1877. 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From    Family    No.    9.       Descent:      Anthony,     Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William,  Thomas,  William  C. 

William  Cobb  Brackett  was  born  in  Westbrook,  Me.,  October  30, 
1847;  home,  in  West  Somerville.  Mass.;  has  lived  in  Biddeford;  is  a 
brush-maker;  married  November  7,  1868,  Rouena  A.  Randall,  born 
September  18,  1848,  died  December  13,  1888,  daughter  of  Gideon  M. 
and  wife,  Eliza  Fox,  of  Kezar  Falls,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Eliza  Emma,  b.  14  Jan.,  1872;  resides  in  Biddeford,  Me. 

2.  Rouena  N.,  b.  10  May,  1881;  resides  in  Biddeford,  Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 

From    Family    No.     10.      Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  William,  Amos  L.,  William  R. 

William  Randall  Brackett  was  born  March  11,  1861;  married 
Frances  Guilford;  resides  in  Saco,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Amos  D. 

2.  Eddie. 

3.  Alvarado. 

4.  George  W. 

5.  Samuel. 

FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From    Family    No.     13.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  Peter,  Peter,  Jr.,  George. 

George  Brackett  was  born  January  18,  1820;  married  (1st)  Feb- 
ruary 28,  1847,  Mary  Tufts,  born  in  1820;  (2nd)  Mary  Gee;  was  a 
cooper;   died  in  1894.     Issue,  by  first  wife: 

1.     John,  b.  in  1848;   mar.  Annie  Alexander.     Issue: 

1st.     Bessie. 

2nd.     . 


THOMAS,    OF    MORRILL'S    CORNER  207 

FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From    Family    No.    13.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  Peter,  Peter,  Jr.,  Benjamin. 

Benjamin  Braekett  was  born  October,  10,  1821;  married  (1st) 
July  1,  1849,  Susan  Tufts,  born  in  1828,  died  in  1850;  (2nd)  May  8, 
1 85 1,  Louisa  Foss,  born  in  1825,  died  in  1861;  (3d)  Thankful  Brown; 
died  May  31,  1892.     Issue,  by  wife  Louisa  Foss: 

1.  Walter,  b.  7  Sept.,  1854;  mar.  (1st)  17  Nov.,  1875,  Alfreda 
Coffin,  b.  in  1857,  d.  in  1879;  (2nd)  17  Dec,  1880,  Hattie  C.  Chase. 
Issue: 

1st.     Alfreda,  b.  30  Sept.,  1879;   home  at  Sabbathday  Dake,  Me. 

2.  Horace,  b.  1  Jan.,  1856. 

3.  Charles,  b.  . 


By  wife  Thankful  Brown: 

4.     Irving,  b.  1  Aug.,  1871;  d.  28  Nov.,  1898. 

FAMILY     NO.    27. 

From    Family    No.    13.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  Peter,  Peter,  Jr.,  Job. 

Job  Braekett  was  born  September  7,  1827;   married  Mary  J.  , 

born  1839;  he  died  March  22,  1867.     Issue: 
1.      Melinda  J.,  b.  in  July,  1859. 


2. 


FAMILY    NO.    28. 


From    Family    No.    14.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  Peter,  Zachariah,  Cornelius. 

Cornelius  Braekett  was  born  June  6,  1824;  he  married  Emeline 
Thompson.  For  several  years  lived  in  Plainville,  Minn.;  was  living 
in  1904;  has  three  children  whose  names  have  not  been  learned. 


FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From    Family    No.    14.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  Peter,  Zachariah,  Cephas  W. 

Cephas  W.  Braekett  was  born  in  Westbrook,  Me.,  May  21,  1828; 
he  has  resided  for  many  years  in  Jordan,  N.  Y.;  is  a  carpenter  and 
pattern-maker;  has  taken  much  interest  in  the  family  history,  and 
attended  the  family  reunion  on  Peak's  Island,  Me.,  in  1904.  Married 
March  9,  1859,  Nancy  Ellen  Carncrans,  born  September  6,  1824,  died 
September  5,  1897,  daughter  of  William  P.  Wagoner  and  wife,  L,eah 
Roth.     Supplied  data  for  his  own  and  his  father's  families.     Issue: 

1.  Frank,  b.  21  Mar.,  i860;   d.  13  Oct.,  1864. 

2.  Nellie  M.,  b.  23  Sept.,    1869;   mar.    19  Oct.,  1897,   Clarence  L. 
Much  of  Jordan.     Issue: 

1st.     Helen  Dorris,  b.  17  Aug.,  1898. 

3.  Edward  M.,  b.  21  Dec,  1861;  resides  in  Carthage,  N.  Y. 


208  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.   30. 

From    Family    No.     15.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Thomas,  Peter,  Nathaniel,  Oliver. 

Oliver  Braekett  was  born  in  New  Gloucester,  Me.,  November  19, 
1820;  lived  in  Livermore  Falls;  was  a  farmer;  married  (1st)  February 
9,  1847,  Catharine  Knight,  born  in  March,  1820,  died  in  November, 
1853,  daughter  of  Merrill  and  wife,  Rachel  Buxton;  (2nd)  March  15, 
1855,  Susan  P.  Chase,  born  January  17,  1827,  daughter  of  Josiah  and 
wife,  Hannah  Buck;   died  April  25,  1898.     Issue: 

1.  Sewall,  b.  14  Dec,  1847;   d.  in  July,  1872. 

2.  Sarah,  b.  17  July,  1S49;   home,  in  Minneapolis,  Minn.;   supplied 
data  as  to  her  father's  family. 

3.  Rachael  Ann,  b.  31  Mar.,  1851;   d.  in  May,  1858. 

4.  Franklin  Pierce,  b.  27  Apr.,  1853;   d.  in  Dec,  1853. 

5.  Mary  E.,  b.  15  May,    1856;  mar.  4  July,    1877,   Fred  W.  Luce: 
home.  Auburn,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Susie  Elinor,  b.  15  Mar.,  1892. 

6.  Annie  C,  b.  10  Sept.,  1858;  home,  Livermore  Falls,  Me. 

7.  James  C,  b.  20  Apr.,  1862;   home,  Livermore  Falls,  Me. 

8.  Abbie   F.,  b.  30  Oct.,    1866;   mar.  in  Nov.,    1890,   Edward  F. 
Chandler;  home.  East  Livermore.     Issue: 

1st.      Merle  N.,  b.  7.  Jan.,  1892. 
2nd.     Oliver  B.,  b.  16  Oct.,  1894. 
3d.      Hazel  May.  b.  8  Jan.,  1896. 
4th.      Hattie  M.,  b.  18  Jan.,  1898. 

9.  Lizzie  W.,  b.  5  Apr.,    1872;   mar.  in  Dec,  1893,   Fred  A.  Wen- 
dell. 


FAMILY     NO.     31. 

From    Family    No.    15.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Thomas,  Peter,  Nathaniel,  Charles  E. 

Charles  Edwin  Braekett  was  born  in  New  Gloucester,  September 
3,  1832;  home,  in  Grafton,  New  Brunswick;  is  an  electrician;  married 
September  13,  i860,  Relief  B.  Preble,  daughter  of  Levi  Flint  Preble 
and  wife,  Cynthia  Bean.     Issue: 

1.  Flora  Ann,  b.  5  July,  1861;   d.  in  March,  1862. 

2.  Frederick  Edwin,  b.  26  Feb.,  1863;   d.  in  May,  1863. 

3.  Flora,   b.   28  Apr.,    1864;   mar.    16  July,    1895,   Moses    H.    Mc- 
Donald.     Issue: 

1st.     Harold  Eugene,  b.  21  Sept.,  1896. 

4.  Esther,  b.  13  Sept.,  1869. 

5.  Edwin  Herbert,  b.   8  Mar.,    1872;   mar.   28  Apr.,    1898,   Nellie 
Stephens. 

6.  Nathaniel  Levi,  b.  28  Feb.,  1875;  d.  26  Feb.,  1877. 

7.  Charles  Nathaniel,  b.  1  Oct.,  1879. 


THOMAS,    OF    MORRILL'S    CORNER  209 

NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    32. 

From    Family    No.     16.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Thomas,  John  S.,  John,  Jr..  Levi,  James  R. 

James  Raymond  Braekett,  born  April  i,  1854,  a  university  pro- 
fessor and  public  lecturer  on  art  and  literature;  fitted  for  college  at 
.Strafford  academy  and  at  West  Lebanon  academy;  entered  Bates 
college  187 1 ;  taught  winter  schools  at  Effingham,  N.  H.,  and  at 
Poland  and  Yarmouth,  Me.;  graduated  from  Bates  college  with  degree 
B.  A.,  in  1  -s - 5 ;  received  degree  M.  A.  from  the  same  school,  in  1878. 
Principal  of  Foxcroft  academy.  Me.,  1875-1878.  1878-80  made 
special  studies  in  literature  and  philology  at  Yale,  under  W.  D. 
Whitney,  L/Ounsbury  and  Beers;  received  the  degree  Ph.  D.  from 
Yale,  in  1880.  Principal  of  high  school,  Montpelier,  Vt.,  1880-83; 
principal  Drurv  academy,  North  Adams,  Mass.,  1883;  Professor  of 
comparative  and  English  literature,  University  of  Colorado,  Boulder, 
1884  to  the  present  time.  Joined  the  Church  of  the  Redeemer  (Con- 
gregational ).  New  Haven.   1880. 

Author  of  "The  Teaching  of  English  in  Colorado,"  "The  New 
Foundations  of  Literary  Study,"  "Literature  as  Fine  Art,"  "Wil- 
liam Blake,  Poet  and  Painter,"  "The  Development  of  the  Style  of 
Raphael,"  "A  Tragedy  in  .Stone:  The  Marbles  of  Michelangelo," 
"An  Epic  without  Words:  Creation,  Redemption  and  Judgment; 
Michelangelo's  Frescos  in  the  Sistine  Chapel,"  and  numerous  other 
lectures  and  addresses. 

Married  August  29,  1882,  Lottie  Small  Rolfe,  born  September 
20,  1851,  at  Webbs  Mills,  town  of  Casco,  Maine,  daughter  of  William 
and  wife.  Annie  Lawrence  Small,  teacher  in  public  schools  at  Casco, 
New  Gloucester,  Poland,  Hampden,  and  Auburn;  preceptress  of  Fox- 
croft academy.  [875—8:  teacher  in  Lewiston  high  school  1878-80. 
Issue: 

1.  William  Raymond,  b.  28  October,  1884,  in  Auburn,  Me.; 
received  his  primary  and  secondary  education  at  home,  from  his 
father  and  mother.  Entered  the  freshman  class  at  the  University  of 
Colorado,  in  1901;  this  was  his  first  going  to  school.  Graduated 
with  the  degree  B.  A.,  in  June,  1905.  Appointed  First  Assistant  in 
Physics  in  the  University  of  Colorado  for  the  years  1905-6  and  1906-7. 
Is  making  researches  in  electricity  and  radium.  Joined  the  first  Con- 
gregational Church,  Boulder,  1898.     Master  Mason,  1905. 

FAMILY    NO.    33. 

From    Family    No.     17.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Thomas,  John  S.,  John,  Jr.,  Silas,  George  A. 

George  Albion  Braekett  was  born  October  21,  1846,  in  Bruns- 
wick, Me.;  removed  to  Roxbury,  Mass.,  where  he  now  resides;  is  a 
member  of  the  well  established  firm,  G.  A.  &  S.  W.  Braekett  com- 
pany, masons  and  whiteners,  on  Warren  street,  Roxbury.  Mr. 
Braekett  has  taken  a  great  interest  in  this  family  history  and  contri- 
buted all  data  relative  to  descendants  of  John  Snow  Braekett.  He 
married,   in   Boston.  January  8,  1874,   Abbie  Ann  Ridley,   born  April 


210  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

25,  1856,  at  Sanford,  Me.  Member  of  Washington  lodge,  A.  F. 
and  A.  M.;  Vernon  Royal  Arch  chapter;  Roxbury  council  of  Royal 
and  Select  Masters;  Joseph  Warren  eommandery,  No.  26,  Knights 
Templars.      Issue: 

1.  L-ila  Winifred,  b.  30  Mar..   1 877. 

2.  Abbie  Mabel,  b.  28  July,  1879. 

3.  George  Albion,  Jr..  b.  6  July.  1881;   d.  23  June,  1882. 

4.  George  Albion.  Jr.,  b.  6  July,  1883. 

5.  Disa  Eleanor,  b.  20  Nov.,  1890. 

6.  Hazel  Maud,  b.  4  July,  1892. 

FAMILY    NO.    34. 

From    Family    No.  18.       Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  John  S.,  John,  Jr..  Alexander.  Andrew  R. 

Andrew  R.  Brackett  was  born  January  13,  1848,  in  Addison,  Me.; 
removed  to  Iowa;  resides  in  Des  Moines,  where  he  is  a  police  officer; 
served  in  the  Union  army  during  the  civil  war.  Married  in  1870, 
Etta  M.  Bishop  of  Durham,  Me.,  born  October  7,  1850.  died  March 
22,   1906.      Issue: 

1.  Carrie  Winifred,  b.  17  Mar..   1871,  in  Durham,  Me. 

2.  Burton  Alesto,   b.  9  Mar.,    1872,   in  Freeport,    Me.;    mar.    21 
Mar.,  1893,  Clara  Ida  Plummer,  b.  27  Sept.,  1S67.     Issue: 

1st.     Mildred  B.,  b.  27  Oct.,  1897. 

3.  Georgia  Frances,  b.  13  Mar.,  1873,  in  Freeport. 

4.  .Samuel  Woodbury,  b.  11  June,  1875,  in  Durham;   mar.  31  Oct., 
1900,  Ethel  Scribner,  b.  in  Nov.,  1881.     Issue: 

1st.     Geraldine  Almira,  b.  11  Nov.,  1901. 
2nd.     Haidee  Ethel,  b.  9  July,  1903. 

5.  Minerva  Puella,  b.  7  July.  1877,  in  Freeport. 

FAMILY    NO.    35. 

From    Family    No.     18.     Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Thomas,  John  S..  John,  Jr.,  Alexander,  Miltmore  J. 
Miltmore  John  Brackett  was  born  September  16,  1868,   in  Iowa; 
married  June  21,  1891,  Mabel  Pauline  Lovejoy;  resides  in  Des  Moines. 
Issue: 

1.  Guv  Eugene,  b.  15  July,  1892;   d.  14  Feb.,  1893. 

2.  Earl,  b.  3  July,  1894. 

3.  Owen,  b.  29  May,  1898. 

4.  Bruce,  b.  26  Nov.,  1902. 

FAMILY    NO.    36. 

From  Family  No.  20.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Thomas.  William,  William,  Willard.  Byron  B. 
Byron  B.  Brackett  was  born  in  Cape  Elizabeth,  Me.,  April  4, 
1S42;  home.  South  Portland;  is  a  stationary  engineer;  married  July 
31,  1864,  Adelia  A.  McKenney,  born  November  2,  1846,  daughter  of 
Charles  and  wife,  Nancy  Olive  Wood,  of  Danville,  Me.     Issue: 

1.      Marshall  P.,  b.  14  Mar.,  1866;   mar.  5  Nov.,  1891,  Jennie  Hun- 
newell;  home,  South  Portland.     Issue: 


THOMAS,     OF     MORRILL'S    CORNER  211 

1st.     Elva  L.,  b.  14  Apr.,  1892. 

2nd.     Adella  G.,  b.  7  Dec,  1894. 

3d.     Marshall  E..  b.  27  Jan.,  1898. 

4th.     Hazel  I.,  b.  30,Sept.,  1900. 
2.     Mabel    G.,    b.    22   Jan.,    1868;    mar.    1   Oct.,    1890,   Frank  M. 
Moody;  home,  South  Portland.     Issue: 

1st.     Gladys  May,  b.  7  May,  1891. 

2nd.     Natalie  M.,  b.  21  Oct.,  1892. 

3d.     Edith  Leone,  b.  8  Sept.,  1S96. 

4th.      Doris  Evelyn,  b.  2  Sept.,  1899. 
.'!.      Arthur  F.,  1).  25  Apr.,  1873;   d.  10  Sept.,  1874. 

4.  Edith  M.,   b.   29  Apr.,    1875;    mar.    13  June,    1900,   Hiram  D. 
Woodbury;   home,  South  Portland,  Me. 

5.  Albert  S.,  b.   15  Mar.,  1877. 

6.  Ernest  L.,  b.  11  July,  1880. 

7.  Byron  B.,  Jr..  b.  18  Aug.,  1883. 

8.  Herman,  b.  6  June,   [888. 

FAMILY    NO.    37. 

From    Family    Xo.    20.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Thomas,  William.  William.  Willard,  Willard, 'jr. 

Willard  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  October  24,  1854;  married  Nettie 

;  lived  in  South  Portland;   died  in  1893.     Issue: 

1.      Philip  !•;..  1).  8  June,   1S88. 
1'.      Marion  L.,  1>.    1    Mar.,  1 S90. 


212  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


DIVISION    NO.   6. 


ZACHARIAH     BRACKETT,     JR.,     OF     STEVENS' 
PLAINS    AND    HIS    DESCENDANTS. 


FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 

From  Chapter  6.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah,  Zacha- 
riah. 
Zachariah  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  November  30,  1716,  in  Hamp- 
ton, New  Hampshire,  was  baptized  August  21,  1719,  in  the  church 
in  Hampton,  and  during  that  year  with  his  father's  family  went  to 
Falmouth  to  live  on  the  farm  bordering  on  Back  cove,  which  form- 
erly belonged  to  his  grandfather,  Captain  Anthony  Brackett.  The 
farm  which  Zachariah,  Jr.,  owned  was  in  the  part  of  old  Falmouth 
known  as  Steven's  Plains.  For  a  time  he  kept  tavern,  had  a  retailer's 
license;  the  tavern  was  a  half-way  stopping  place  on  the  road  from 
Stroudwater  to  Presumpscot  Falls;  it  stood  near  the  present  site  of 
the  Universalist  church  building  and  the  place  could  be  located  later 
than  in  the  year  1894,  by  its  cellar  excavation.     Here  he  settled  in 

1744,  the  year  war  commenced  with  the  Indians. 

As  early  as  1736,  there  were  fears  of  a  conflict  with  the  Indians 
and  preparations  were  made  by  the  settlers  for  it;  in  1738,  new  mili- 
tary companies  were  organized  and  during  the  winter  of  1738-9,  the 
military  forces  of  Maine,  theretofore  consisting  of  one  regiment,  were 
organized  in  two  regiments,  with  headquarters  of  one  in  Falmouth 
and  Samuel  Waldo  its  colonel.  As  Zachariah,  Jr.,  was  in  the  twenty- 
first  year  of  his  age  in  1738,  he  belonged  to  one  of  the  company 
organizations  of  this  regiment.  The  colonial  law  specified  that  all 
males  between  the  ages  of  sixteen  and  sixty  years  (there  were  per- 
sons exempted)  as  persons  to  bear  arms  and  be  provided  with  fire- 
lock musket  and  accoutrements,  and  as  earl)-  as  1702,  the  law 
directed  that  the  commissioned  officers  select  at  least  a  quarter  part 
of  the  number  of  their  respective  commands  for  service  upon  notice; 
those  thus  selected  were  to  be  at  all  times  in  readiness  for  duty. 

In  1744,  war  commenced  between  France  and  England  which 
involved  their  respective  colonies  in  America.  The  Indians  in  Maine, 
nearly  to  a  man,  as  they  invariably  had  done  before  under  these 
conditions,  took  sides  with  their  friends,  the  French.     In  September, 

1745,  there  were  disturbances  near  Falmouth;  none  of  its  military 
companies  were  able  to  overtake  the  Indians.  In  April.  1746,  a  set- 
tlement in  Gorham  was  attacked  and  during  the  same  month  three 
persons  in  Falmouth  were  killed;  later  two  persons  were  killed  at 
Stroudwater.  An  Indian  had  the  courage  to  go  on  the  Neck;  "in 
no  war  had  they  been  more  venturesome."  In  August  one  was  seen 
in  Brackett 's  swamp;  ten  days  later  the  swamp  was  searched  by  a 
military  force.  The  Indians  harassed  the  entire  frontier  line  of  set- 
tlements in  Maine  and  New  Hampshire  during  the  summer  months; 


ZACHARIAH,     OF     STEVENS'     PLAINS  213 

they  renewed  their  attacks  in  the  spring  of  1747,  on  the  settlements; 
people  living  in  Falmouth  were  killed  and  taken  and  their  stock 
destroyed.  The  Indians  were  generally  pursued  but  managed  to 
elude  the  soldiers,  the  wily  fellows  knowing  every  by-path,  swamp 
and  other  hiding  place.  The  colonial  government  gave  a  bounty  of 
four  hundred  pounds,  old  tenor,  for  every  Indian  killed.  Stock  com- 
panies were  organized  to  fit  out  expeditions  to  hunt  for  scalps,  even 
parsons  invested  in  the  stock — owned  so  many  shares  which  entitled 
each  holder  to  participate  in  the  bounty  mone}^  paid  for  Indians 
killed  by  the  party  sent  out  by  the  respective  companies. 

Upon  the  termination  of  war  between  France  and  England  in 
1749,  peace  with  the  Indians  followed.  The  treaty  with  them  was 
signed  at  Falmouth  in  October,  1749.  In  December  following,  at 
Wiscasset,  in  a  quarrel  between  some  whites  and  members  of  the 
Canibas  tribe,  one  Indian  was  killed  and  two  were  wounded.  Three 
of  the  miscreant  whites  who  perpetrated  this  outrage,  were  lodged  in 
the  jail  at  Falmouth;  none  was  ever  punished.  Promptly  did  this 
tribe,  unassisted  by  the  other  Indians,  renew  the  war  and  carried  on 
hostilities  until  August,  1751,  when  they  were  persuaded  to  confirm 
the  treaty. 

During  this  eventful  period  of  seven  years,  when,  in  the  summer 
months  there  were  probabilities  of  attacks  at  any  time  and  the  foe 
continuously  threatened  the  outskirts  of  the  settlements,  the  inhabi- 
tants were  in  constant  alarm  and  in  terror  for  their  lives;  the  family 
of  Zachariah  Brackett,  as  did  other  families,  during  this  period, 
sought  protection  in  a  garrison  house.  He,  and  others  of  families 
who  were  able  to  bear  arms,  were  constantly  called  upon  for  service 
to  pursue  some  marauding  baud  of  Indians,  and  right  fortunate  they 
were  if  able  to  overtake  them. 

For  a  period  of  five  years  there  was  peace  with  the  Indians. 
When  making  the  treaty  of  1749,  the  colonists  sought  to  convince 
the  Indians  that  the  French  were  no  longer  able  to  afford  them  pro- 
tection because  of  losses  which  the  French  had  sustained  during  the 
war  ending  that  year,  and  to  persuade  them  to  enter  into  an  alliance 
with  the  English;  one  of  the  provisions  of  the  treaty  was  that  the 
Indians  were  to  aid  the  English  in  the  event  of  another  Avar  with  the 
French.  Such  another  war  commenced  in  1754,  between  France 
and  England.  The  Indians  in  Maine  remained  quiet  until  1756; 
when  the  time  came  for  them  to  act,  there  was  no  hesitancy  on  their 
part  in  choosing  their  course.  They  took  sides  with  the  nation 
whose  policy  it  had  been,  and  was,  to  preserve  them  and  conserve 
their  interests,  which  considered  them  a  people  and  not  prey. 

During  the  last  French  and  Indian  war  the  people  in  Maine 
suffered  little  when  is  considered  what  they  had  undergone  in  former 
wars  with  the  Indians.  In  1756,  there  were  rumors  of  attacks  to  be 
made  by  the  Indians  in  small  bands.  The  military  companies  of 
Falmouth  under  the  command  of  Captains  Ilsley,  Milk  and  Skillings 
went  in  search  of  the  Indians,  but  met  with  none. 

"The  enemy  afterwards  (1758)  made  an  attempt  upon  the  fort 
at  Meduncook  (Friendship)  without  being  able  to  carry  it,  though 
they  killed  and  took  captive  eight  men.  Then,  so  far  as  our  knowl- 
edge extends,  closed  the  scenes  of  massacre,  plunder  and  outrage  by 
the  Indians  during  the  present  war  and  forever."  Williamson's 
History  of  Me.,  Vol.  II,  p.  333. 


214  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

During  the  last  French  and  Indian  war  Zachariah,  Jr.,  was  a  cor- 
poral in  Captain  Isaac  Ilsley's  Back  Cove  company;  as  such  his 
name  appears  in  a  list  of  names  of  persons  belonging  to  the  company, 
dated  August  16,  1757.  In  this  company  James  Merrill  was  lieuten- 
ant, Isaac  Shillings,  sergeant,  George  Walker,  drummer,  and  Joshua 
Brackett,  one  of  the  privates  on  the  alarm  list. 

Zachariah  married  (intention  published  November  7,  1742), 
Judith  Sawyer,  a  daughter  of  Isaac  (see  chapter  6);  she  was  a  tax 
payer  in  Falmouth  in  1777;  survived  her  husband  many  years.  He 
died  March  14,  1776,  in  Falmouth.  Several  of  his  children  joined  in 
a  deed  conveying  his  real  estate;  this  deed  was  made  in  June,  1784; 
the  widow  also  signed  the  deed;  the  names  of  the  children  and  such 
other  information  as  has  been  secured  concerning  them  are  given. 
There  were  children  who  died  prior  to  1784.  Issue  not  in  order  of 
birth: 

1.  Sarah,  b.  18  Oct.,  1749;  d.  23  Feb.,  1830;  mar.  24  Nov.,  1769, 
Captain  Isaac  Stevens,  a  Continental  soldier,  b.  17  Sept.,  1748,  d.  23 
Oct.,  1820;  lived  at  Stevens'  Plains.  Children  were  Sarah;  Isaac; 
Molly;   Zachariah  B.;   Nathaniel;   Lucy;  Josiah;   William;   Nabby. 

2.  Joseph,,  b.  17  May,  1758.     See  family  2. 

3.  Abigail,  living  in  1787. 

4.  Susannah,  mar.  6  July,  1786,  Merrill  Sawyer. 

5.  Judith,  mar.  Nathaniel  Merrill  of  North  Yarmouth. 

6.  Rebecca,  mar.  Joseph  Wire  of  Livermore  Falls,  Me. 

7.  Josiah,  b.  about  1757;  it  is  not  known  that  he  ever  married. 
Served  as  second  lieutenant  in  Captain  Isaac  Tuckerman's  company, 
Colonel  Kbenezer  Francis'  regiment;  marched  to  join  regiment  8 
Aug.,  1776;  reported  "northern  department;"  name  also  in  return 
of  officers  in  Colonel  Francis'  regiment  at  Dorchester  heights,  13 
Sept.,  1776. 

Served  as  private  in  Captain  John  Wentworth's  company;  name 
appears  in  pay  abstract  for  travel  allowance,  dated  at  Watertown  20 
Aug.,  1776;  also  served  in  Capt.  Wentworth's  company,  Col.  Aaron 
Willard's  regiment;  name  appears  in  pay  abstract  for  travel  allow- 
ance from  Falmouth  to  Bennington  dated  at  Boston  6  Jan.,  1777. 
Also  served  in  Colonel  Peter  Noyes'  (1st  Cumberland  county  regi- 
ment) name  appears  in  return  of  men  of  that  regiment,  list  dated  20 
Nov.,  1778  who  enlisted  for  service  in  the  Continental  army  for  three 
years.  Enlisted  for  the  town  of  Falmouth,  mustered  by  Daniel 
Insley,  muster  master;  joined  Captain  Silas  Burbank's  company, 
Colonel  Sprout's  regiment,  also  Col.  Brewer's  regiment;  name 
appears  on  pay  accounts  for  service  from   14  Feb.,  1777,  to  31  Dec, 

1779,  and  from  1  Jan.,  1780  to  24  Feb.,  1780. 

Served  as  private  in  Captain  Joseph  Pride's  company,  Colonel 
Joseph    Prime's   (Cumberland  county)   regiment;    enlisted   18  Apr., 

1780,  discharged  6  Dec,  1780;  served  7  months  and  18  days  at  the 
eastward.  Also  was  corporal  in  Capt.  Joseph  Pride's  company, 
year  not  given;  reported  "lame." 

Name  appears  in  return  of  men  enlisted  into  the  Continental 
army  during  1781  and  1782,  gth  Mass.  regiment;  "unfit  for  the  ser- 
vice *  *  *  age,  24  years;  stature,  5  feet  5  inches;  enlisted  for  the 
town  of  Falmouth  *  *  for  three  years;  reported,  disabled." 


ZACHARIAH,    OF    STEVENS'    PLAINS  215 

This  worthy  man  not  only  served  in  militia  organizations  at  the 
commencement  of  the  war  but  also  served  for  a  term  of  three  years 
in  a  Continental  regiment;  upon  the  expiration  of  said  term  he 
returned  to  Falmouth,  at  once  became  a  member  of  a  militia  com- 
pany and  was  in  the  expedition  to  the  eastward;  joined  Captain 
Pride's  company,  re-enlisted  for  the  Continental  service  and  was 
rejected  because  he  was  not  physically  fitted  for  the  army.  From 
the  close  of  the  war  in  1783,  for  many  years  he  resided  in  Westbrook; 
perhaps  earned  his  living  by  days'  works  so  long  as  health  permit- 
ted. In  1 81 8,  Congress  passed  an  act  having  for  its  object  the  relief 
of  old  Continental  soldiers  who  were  in  destitute  circumstances. 
The  evidence  of  Josiah  Brackett  by  affidavit  before  Judge  Albion  K. 
Parris  of  the  U.  S.  district  court,  in  substance,  was  that  he  served 
for  six  years  from  1775  to  June,  1783;  that  his  regiment  in  the  Con- 
tinental army  was  the  12th  regulars  in  the  Massachusetts  line,  com- 
manded by  Colonel  Brewer;  was  then  (April,  1818)  62  years  old; 
lived  in  Westbrook;  that  he  had  no  real  estate,  no  personal  property, 
"none  except  the  poor  clothes  on  my  back.  I  have  no  income  and 
am  only  able  to  walk  by  the  help  of  two  canes.  I  have  no  family.  I 
am  supported  by  the  town." 

His  claim  was  promptly  allowed;  the  first  payment  was  over  one 
hundred  dollars.  Certainly,  pulsations  of  gladness  will  thrill  one  on 
reading  that  this  patriot's  distress  was  relieved  in  a  becoming  man- 
ner and  by  what  was  truly  his  own;  and,  no  keener  delight  will  be 
felt  from  knowledge  of  a  stranger  long  since  dead  having  received 
his  due,  than  one  must  feel  upon  learning  that  into  the  worthy  hand 
of  the  gallant  soldier,  Josiah  Brackett  of  Westbrook,  was  placed  that 
which  made  his  old  heart  leap  lor  joy,  as  it  did  when  the  last  maraud- 
ing redcoat  left  our  shore.     He  died  8  Aug.,  1820. 

8.      Daniel.     See  family  3. 

(.».     Thomas.     See  in  account  of  life  of  Daniel. 


SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From    Family    No.    1.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Joseph. 

Joseph  Brackett  was  born  in  Falmouth,  May  17,  1758;  was  a 
farmer  in  Cumberland. 

Served  as  private  in  Captain  John  Wentworth's  company, 
Colonel  Aaron  Willard's  regiment;  name  appears  in  pay  abstract  for 
travel  allowance  fr-om  fort  Edward,  where  discharged,  to  Falmouth, 
dated  January  15,  1777. 

Served  as  private  in  Captain  Alexander  McClellan's  company, 
Colonel  Jonathan  Mitchell's  regiment;  enlisted  July  7,  1779!  dis- 
charged September  25,  1779;  served  two  months  and  eighteen  days 
on  expedition  against  Penobscot;  roll  dated  at  Gorham. 

Served  as  private  (sergeant)  in  Captain  Jedediah  Goodwin's 
company,  Colonel  Joseph  Prime's  regiment,  under  command  of  Brig- 
adier General  Wadsworth;   enlisted  May  3,  1780;  discharged  Novem- 


216  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ber  20,  1780;  name  appears  on  muster  roll  for  May  and  June,  1780, 
dated  at  Falmouth;  served  six  months  and  eighteen  days. 

Served  as  private  in  Captain  Joseph  Pride's  company;  name 
appears  in  list  of  men  of;   year  not  given. 

About  the  time  of  his  wife's  death  in  1799,  Joseph  and  most  of 
his  children  united  with  the  Gorham  society  of  Shakers.  His  prop- 
erty and  the  farms  of  his  wife's  brothers,  Thomas  and  Barnabas, 
formed  the  nucleus  of  the  property  of  Gorham  Shaker  society;  it 
removed  to  Poland  Hill,  Me.,  in  1819.  He  remained  with  the  society 
until  his  death,  steadfast  in  its  faith  and  true  to  its  principles  and 
teachings:  he  died  July  27,  1838,  in  Poland  Hill,  Me.  In  the 
record  of  deaths  of  the  society  is  the  following: — 

"One  circumstance  in  connection  with  the  death  of  Joseph 
Brackett,  Sr.,  is  worthy  of  record.  He  was  often  heard  to  say  that 
he  hoped  to  be  able  to  work  as  long  as  he  lived.  When  he  could  no 
longer  perform  his  accustomed  manual  labor,  he  wished  to  retire  to 
his  room,  lie  down,  and  go  like  a  bullet  out  of  a  gun,  when  there 
was  no  person  present  to  witness  the  exit  of  life. 

True  to  his  wish  he  labored  diligently  all  day,  went  to  his  room 
between  5  and  6  o'clock,  and  when  a  young  sister  went  to  call  him 
to  his  supper,  his  spirit  had  fled  and  his  lifeless  body  was  lying  upon 
the  bed  looking  calm  as  if  just  fallen  to  sleep." 

Married  (intention  published  March  30,  1781),  Sarah  Bangs;  she 
died  about  1798-9,  was  daughter  of  Barnabas:  he  was  born  March 
11,  1728,  in  what  is  now  Brewster,  Mass.;  removed  to  Gorham, 
served  several  terms  of  enlistment  in  the  War  of  the  Revolution, 
married  in  September,  1751,  Eoruhama  Elwell,  died  January  29, 
1808,  was  son  of  Ebenezer;  he  was  born  in  Brewster,  baptized  Feb- 
ruary 8,  1702,  married  December  18,  1726,  Anna  Sears  (daughter  of 
Paul  and  wife,  Mercy  Freeman,  son  of  Paul,  son  of  Richard,  the 
pilgrim),  died  in  old  age,  was  son  of  Edward;  he  was  born  in  Brews- 
ter, September  30,  1665,  married  Ruth  Allen  (died  June  22,  1738, 
aged  sixty-eight),  died  May  22,  1746,  was  son  of  Captain  Jonathan; 
he  was  born  in  Plymouth,  Mass.,  in  1640,  married  July  16,  1664, 
Mary  Mayo  (daughter  of  Captain  Samuel  and  wife,  Thomasine 
Lumpkin,  son  of  Rev.  Mr.  John  Mayo  of  Boston),  died  November  9, 
1728,  was  son  of  Edward;  he  was  born  in  England  about  1592, 
died  in  1678,  came  to  Plymouth,  Mass.,  on  ship  Anne\  which  arrived 
in  June,  1623,  married  daughter  of  Robert  Hicks,  perhaps  Lydia, 
who  came  on  the  Anne.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Jerusha,  b.  19  July,  1783,  in  Gorham;  belonged  to  the  Shaker 
society  in  Poland;   d.  23  Dec,  1827. 

2.  Barnabas.     See  family  4. 

.3.     Benjamin,    who    joined  the  Gorham  Shakers:    went  with  the 
society  to  Poland   and  was  a  member  of  it  in   1830.     Subsequently 

left  the  Shakers;  married  Harriet ,  b.  about  1821;   was  a  cooper 

living  in  Denmark,  Me.,  in  1850.     Issue: 

1st.     John  A.,  b.  about  1847.     No  further  record. 

4.  Comfort,  who  joined  the  Shakers  in  Gorham;  d.  23  Feb.,  1814. 

5.  Isaac,    b.    in    Cumberland,    18   May,    1786;    belonged   to   the 
Shaker  society  in  Alfred,  where  he  died  9  Apr.,  18 19. 

6.  Zachariah,    b.  12  Feb.,  1789.     See  family  5. 


ZACHARIAH,     OF     STEVENS'     PLAINS  217 

7.  Elisha,  b.  6  May,  1797;  was  a  child  when  his  father  united 
with  the  Shakers;  himself  became  prominent,  and  d.  in  the  faith; 
was  for  man}-  years  bishop  of  the  Shaker  societies  in  Maine,  and  for 
a  longer  period  elder  of  the  "family"  in  New  Gloucester,  Me.;  was 
a  Shaker  all  his  life  from  babyhood.  Record  of  his  death  in  the 
New  Gloucester  family  reads: — 

"He  was  stricken  with  paralysis  30  minutes  past  9  o'clock, 
Sabbath  morn,  the  25th  of  June;  died  45  minutes  past  9  o'clock 
in  the  afternoon  of  the  immortal  4th  of  July  1882;  aged  85  years, 
1  month  and  28  days.  He  lived  10  days  and  6  hours  without  taking 
any  food  and  but  very  little  nourishing  liquids  during  the  whole 
time.  'Mark  the  perfect  man  and  behold  the  upright  for  the  end  of 
that  man  is  peace.'  " 

A  member  of  the  Shaker  family  in  New  Gloucester  in  1897, 
wrote  Mr.  G.  A.  Brackett,  of  Roxbury,  who,  she  thought,  was  a 
descendant  of  a  brother  of  Elder  Joseph: — 

"You  are  a  stranger  to  me  but  it  must  be  that  you  are  a  very 
good  man  to  be  worthy  of  your  lineage  *  fi  *  Your  grandfather's 
brother  whom  you  inquire  about,  was  our  Elder  Joseph,  a  man  dearly 
loved  by  us  all,  one  of  the  best  men  that  ever  lived." 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From    Family    No.    1.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Zacnariah,  Daniel. 

Daniel  Brackett  was  born  in  April,  1757,  perhaps  in  Falmouth; 
it  is  certain  that  he  was  a  resident  of  the  town  as  early  as  1776. 

The  compiler  confesses  that  he  has  little  or  no  authority  on 
which  to  base  the  parentage  of  Daniel  Brackett,  as  here  given. 
With  certainty  is  it  known  who  were  the  children  of  the  sons  of 
Zachariah,  except  of  Zachariah,  Jr.  All  the  authority  there  is  as  to 
who  were  his  children,  are  the  recitations  contained  in  a  deed 
executed  in  17N4.  They  are  accepted  as  conclusive  proof  that  the 
persons  who  executed  that  deed  are  Zachariah,  Jr.'s,  children  and 
their  spouses.  However,  it  cannot  with  certainty  be  inferred  that 
all  his  children  signed  the  deed.  One  who  may  not  have  signed, 
possibly  conveyed  his  interest  in  the  estate  of  Zachariah  to  one  who 
did  sign.  Conveyancing  in  those  days,  in  Maine,  was  not  directed 
to  show  that  all  interests  were  conveyed  by  a  deed  quite  so  much  as 
to  convey  all  interests.  Hence,  it  would  not  be  exceptional,  if, 
under  the  business  methods  of  the  time,  in  the  making  of  the  deed, 
Daniel  Brackett  did  not  sign  it,  he  having  conveyed  his  interest  to 
one  who  did. 

So  far  as  is  known  the  sons  of  Zachariah  were  soldiers;  his  son 
Josiah  was  a  Continental  regular  as  was  Daniel  Brackett;  the  latter 
had  a  son  Josiah. 

Nothing  in  addition  to  the  foregoing  can  be  submitted  at  the 
present  writing  to  show  that  Daniel  was  a  son  of  Zachariah,  Jr. 

The  census  of  1790  shows  living  in  Falmouth  a  Daniel  Brackett 
with  a  son  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years,  and  five  females,  probably 
his  wife  and  four  daughters. 

The  census  of  1800  shows  living  in  the  "settlement  East  of 
Winslow"  (Vassalboro),  Kennebec  county,  Me.,  a  Daniel  Brackett. 


218  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

In  his  house  were  living  one  male,  perhaps  his  son,  Daniel,  between 
the  ages  sixteen  and  twenty-six  years;  another  male,  perhaps  him- 
self, past  the  age  of  forty-five  years;  a  female,  perhaps  his  wife, 
between  the  ages  twenty-six  and  forty-five  years.  In  the  same  set- 
tlement there  was  a  Thomas  Braekett  living.  In  his  house  were  one 
male,  himself,  between  the  ages  sixteen  and  twenty-six  years; 
another  male,  perhaps  his  son,  under  the  age  of  ten  years;  one  female, 
perhaps  his  wife,  between  the  ages  twenty-six  and  forty-five  years, 
and  another,  perhaps  his  daughter,  under  the  age  of  ten  years.  The 
census  of  1810  shows  residing  in  the  plantation  of  Lincoln,  Hancock 
county,  Me.,  a  Daniel  Braekett,  probably  son  of  Daniel.  In  his 
house  were  one  male,  perhaps  himself  between  the  ages  twenty-six 
and  forty-five  years;  two  males;  perhaps  his  sons,  under  the  age  of 
ten  years;  one  female,  perhaps  his  wife,  between  the  ages  of  twenty- 
six  and  forty-five  years,  and  another,  perhaps  his  daughter,  under 
the  age  of  ten  years. 

The  family  of  Daniel  Braekett.  Jr.,  in  1810,  consisted  of  two 
sons  and  one  daughter  who  were  born  prior  to  that  year;  hence,  it  is 
thought  that  the  Daniel  Braekett  who,  in  1810.  lived  in  Lincoln  plan- 
tation was  Daniel,  Jr.  The  Daniel  Braekett  who,  in  1800,  lived  in 
Kennebec  county,  probably  was  Daniel,  Sr.  In  his  family  at  the 
time  were  no  daughters.  The  Daniel  Braekett  who  resided  in  Fal- 
mouth in  1790,  had  four  daughters,  all  of  whom,  if  he  were  our 
Daniel,  would  hardly  have  been  married  prior  to  1800;  they  ma}' 
have  died.  But  it  is  not  thought  that  said  Daniel  with  the  daugh- 
ters, was  our  Daniel;  he  perhaps  was  the  Daniel,  son  of  Joshua,  son 
of  Zachariah,  Sr.  Query:  When,  in  1784,  the  deed  was  executed, 
was  our  Daniel  living  at  a  distance  from  Falmouth  and,  hence,  did 
not  sign? 

The  Thomas  Braekett  who,  in  1800,  lived  in  the  settlement  east 
of  Winslow  where  then  lived  Daniel.  Sr..  perhaps  was  a  near  relative 
of  the  latter,  if  not  his  brother;  in  181S,  Daniel,  Sr.,  and  a  Thomas 
Braekett  lived  in  the  town  of  Avon,  Ontario  county,  X.  Y.  If  he 
were  a  brother  of  Daniel  he  was  too  young  to  sign  the  deed  in  1784. 

It  has  not  been  learned  with  certainty  in  what  year  Daniel 
Braekett  removed  to  Xew  York,  but  it  was  probably  in  the  year 
1 815,  when  Daniel,  Jr.,  removed  there. 

As  has  been  mentioned,  Daniel  Braekett,  Sr.,  was  a  Continental 
soldier.  Under  date  of  June  4,  1818,  he  executed  his  declaration  for 
pension  before  Stephen  Phelps,  judge  of  the  county  court  of  common 
pleas  of  Ontario  county.  He  set  forth  that  he  was  then  sixty-two 
years  old  and  a  resident  of  Avon,  Ontario  county,  X.  Y.;  enlisted  in 
April.  1777.  in  Falmouth,  Me.,  in  Xicholas  Blaisdell's  company, 
Colonel  Wigglesworth's  regiment  of  the  Massachusetts  line;  was  dis- 
charged in  March  or  April,  17S0,  at  Highlands,  X.  Y.;  was  at  cap- 
ture of  Burgoyne  and  in  the  battle  of  Monmouth;  that  he  was  in 
reduced  circumstances. 

Also  at  same  time  and  place  Thomas  Braekett  of  Avon,  X.  Y.. 
testified  that  he  was  well  acquainted  "with  Daniel  Braekett  now  a 
resident  of  Avon"  and  that  deponent  "well  recollected  that  Daniel 
Braekett  served  in  the  Revolutionary  war  for  the  term  of  three  years 
and  recollects  of  hearing  his  discharge  read  on  his  return  from  the 
service." 


ZACHARIAH,    OF    STEVENS'    PLAINS  219 

In  a  supplemental  statement  made  by  Daniel  Brackett,  Sr., 
November  8,  1820,  in  Cattaraugus  county,  he  set  forth  that  he  would 
be  sixty-three  years  old  the  following  April;  was  a  resident  of 
Orleans  county;  that  he  had  a  claim  of  $52  against  his  son  Daniel, 
Jr.,  for  cash  advanced  to  him;  that  he  was  formerly  a  farmer  but  had 
no  trade  at  present;  totally  deaf  in  one  ear  and  "thick  of  hearing" 
in  the  other,  due  to  small  pox;  no  family;  "make  my  home  at  pres- 
ent at  William  Thomsons  in  Orleans." 

The  records  of  the  War  Department  show  that  Daniel  Brackett 
of  Falmouth  (also  described  as  of  Raymond  and  Raymondtown) 
enlisted  January  29,  1777;  name  appears  in  return  of  men  enlisted 
into  Continental  army  from  Capt.  Joseph  Dingley's  company,  Colonel 
Timothy  Pike's  (Fourth  Cumberland  county)  regiment,  dated  Octo- 
ber 29,  1778;  enlisted  for  town  of  Raymond;  joined  Capt.  Nicholas 
Blaisdale's  company,  Col.  Edward  Wiggleswrorth's  regiment;  also 
private  in  Capt.  Smart's  company,  Col.  Calvin  Smith's  (late  Wig- 
glesworth's)  regiment;  transferred  to  Capt.  Daniel  Pillsbury's  (light 
infantry)  company.  Col.  Wigglesworth's  regiment.  Enlisted  for 
three  years.  Name  appears  on  Continental  army  pay  accounts  for 
service  from  January  29,  1777  to  December  31,  1779;  on  muster 
return  dated  Camp  Valley  Forge,  February  5,  1778;  on  muster  roll 
[or  May.  1778,  dated  at  Camp  Valley  Forge,  "reported  on  fatigue 
duty;"  on  muster  roll  for  June,  1778,  dated  at  Camp  Greeage, 
"reported  sick  in  flying  camp;"  on  muster  roll  for  March  and  April, 
1779,  dated  Providence,  R.  I.;  on  pay  roll  for  October,  1778,  sworn  to 
at  Providence.     Mustered  by  Major  Inslow,  muster  master. 

It  is  not  known  who  was  the  wife  of  Daniel  Brackett,  Sr.  Issue: 
1.     Daniel,  b.  14  Mar..  17N4.     See  family  6. 


SEVENTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    4. 

From    Family    No.     2.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Joseph,  Barnabas. 

Barnabas  Brackett  was  born  about  1790,  in  Gorham,  Me.,  died 
in  1872;  in  his  younger  days  was  a  Shaker;  married  Polly  Howard,  a 
sister  of  Judge  Joseph  Howard  of  Portland;  resided  in  Denmark, 
Oxford  county;  was  a  lumberman  and  a  man  of  considerable  property. 
Issue: 

1.  Frances  Jane,  mar.  Albion  Keith  Parris  Grant,  b.  in  Sept.,  1822; 
was  his  second  wife;  she  mar.  (2nd)  Hamlin.     Issue: 

1st.  Mary  H.  Grant,  b.  about  1849;  mar.  Hewitt  Chandler; 
home,  in  Rock,  Mass. 

2.  Mary  Reed,  d.   at  the  age  of  44  years  in  San  Francisco;  mar. 
James  H.  Deering. 

.3.     Henry  Wallace,  d.  at  the  age  of  18  years. 
4.     Austin,  d.  in  infancy. 


220  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY     NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.  2.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Joseph,  Zachariah  B. 
Zachariah  Bangs  Brackett  was  born  February  12,  1789^  in 
Cumberland,  Me.;  resided  in  Westbrook;  was  a  contractor  and  build- 
er, merchant  and  dealer  in  real  estate;  was  an  active,  energetic  busi- 
ness man,  full  of  enterprise  and  venture;  bought  and  sold  farms  ex- 
tensively; died  October  6,  1840.  Married  Abigail  Read,  born 
December  25,  1789,  died  January  30,  1847,  daughter  of  Jonathan  and 
wife,  Dorothy  Blake.     Issue,  all  born  in  Westbrook: 

1.  Emeliue,  b.  19  Feb.,  1810;   d.  20  Feb.,  1810. 

2.  Sarah,  b.  7  Mar.,  1811;  d.  2  Apr.,  1811. 

3.  Leonard,  b.  2  May,  1814;  mar.  Martha  Low;  d.  16  Dec,  1834. 
Widow  married  Albert  Harding  and  moved  West. 

4.  Ona  C,  b.  16  Feb.,  1817.     See  family  7. 

5.  Sewall,  b.  9  Feb.,  1819.     See  family  8. 

6.  William  Tyng  Smith,  b.  2  Aug.,  1824;  mar.  23  Feb.,  1857, 
Nancy  Mahew  of  Edgartown,  Martha's  Vineyard;  was  a  physician,  a 
graduate  of  Harvard  Medical  school;  practiced  at  Edgartown  and  at 
Olneyville,  R.  I.;  was  in  Westbrook  in'  1850;  died  at  Olneyville, 
17  Oct.,  1862.     His  widow  d.  in  Edgartown  in  July,  1871.     Issue: 

1st.     Annie  Leonard,  b.  10  Feb.,  1858;  d.  22  Oct.,  1858. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From  Family  No.  3.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Daniel,  Daniel. 
Daniel  Brackett  was  born  March  14,  1784,  in  Falmouth,  Me. 
The  date  of  his  birth  is  taken  from  a  Bible  record.  He  was  an  only 
son,  if  not  an  only  child.  Perhaps  lived  for  a  time  (1800)  in  his 
youth  in  settlement  east  of  Wiuslow  (perhaps  Vassalboro)  in  Kenne- 
bec county;  after  marriage  (1810)  resided  in  plantation  of  Lincoln  in 
Hancock  county;  removed  to  Orleans  county,  New  York;  was  there 
in  1 819;  settled  on  land  in  the  town  of  Clarendon.  A  Christian  min- 
ister; gave  land  for  the  church  site  and  was  one  of  the  prime  movers 
in  the  erection  of  the  church  building.  Died  in  1865.  Married  June 
5,  1804,  Lydia  Whitney,  born  August  17,  1784,  died  in  1871,  daugh- 
ter of  Rev.  Elias  Whitney.     Issue: 

1.  Levi,  b.  10  Mar.,  1805.     See  family  9. 

2.  Reuben  C,  b.  2  Dec,  1806..    See  family  10. 

3.  Mary,  b.  28  Jan.,  1809;  d.  in  infancy  (?). 

4.  Daniel,  b.  12  Nov.,  1810;  d.  young,  unmarried. 

5.  Joanna,  b.  25  Feb.,  1813;  died  in  infancy. 

6.  John,  b.  2  May,  1815.     See  family  11. 

7.  Rufus,  b.  15  May,  1817.     See  family  12. 

8.  Josiah,  b.  13  Sept.,  1826.     See  family  13. 

9.  Lydia,  b.  4  Mar.,  1830;  mar.  Edwin  Mitchell.  Issue:  Dan- 
iel; Alonzo;  Melissa;  Louisa;  Helen. 

10.  Polly,  b.  in  1809  (perhaps  was  same  as  Mary,  No.  3  above);  d. 
24  Oct.,  1883;  mar.  about  1825,  John  Hogle,  b.  in  1804;  d.  in  1888, 
son  of  Elisha,  was  a  farmer.     Issue: 

1st.     Elisha,    who   mar.     Emeline    Clark;     resides   in    Stewart, 
Minn.     Issue:     John  C;  Byron;  Merton;  Dora;  and  another. 


ZACHARIAH,    OF    STEVENS'    PLAINS  221 

2nd.  Lydia  H.,  mar.  Asher  J.  Barrett;  is  deceased;  son  A.  G. 
Barrett,  resides  in  Blackwell,  Oklahoma. 

3d.     Samantha  H.,  b.  about  1835;  d.  about  1845. 

4th.  Elias  H.,  mar.  Emeline  Coley;  is  dec.  Issue:  Fred; 
Francis;  Alta.     Widow  resides  in  Versailles,  N.  Y. 

5th.  Adelaide  H.;  mar.  Oliver  Fullington;  home,  in  Warsaw, 
N.  Y.     No  issue. 

6th.     Susannah  H.,  b.   27  June,  1847;   single;  d.    16  Mar.,  1891. 

7th.  John  Brackett,  b.  18  Mar.,  1853;  mar.  5  May,  1893,  Grace 
B.  Hall;  resides  in  Hume,  New  York. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Joseph,  Zachariah  B.,  Ona  C. 
Ona  Carpenter  Brackett  was  born  February  16,  18 17;  married 
Ellen  D.  Low,  born  in  1820,  sister  of  Martha;  he  was  a  tin-plate 
worker,  resided  in  Westbrook  in  1850;  went  to  Pennsylvania,  thence 
to  Illinois,  where  he  died  July  15,  1852.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  Dingley,  b.  about  1845;  was  drowned  when  a  young 
man. 

2.  Leonard,  b.  about  1848;  no  further  record. 

3.  Ida,  b.  in  Dec,  1849. 

4.  Ellen  (not  sure  of  name). 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Joseph,  Zachariah  B.,  Sewall. 
Sewall  Brackett  was  born  February  9,  1819;  married  September 
10,  1843,  Melinda  Cobb,  daughter  of  Enoch  and  wife,  Betsey  Brackett, 
see  page  186;  was  a  worker  in  tin-plate;  lived  in  Westbrook;  died 
April  21,  1880.     Issue: 

1.  Abbie  Elizabeth,  b.  15  July,  1844;  mar.  13  Jan.,  1870,  George 
Stackpole,  son  of  Charles  A.  and  wife,  Mary  Merrill;  home,  on  Brack- 
ett St.,  Westbrook.     Issue: 

1st.     Alice  D.,  b.  19  July,  1871,  in  Gorham,  Me. 
2nd.     Abbie  L.,  b.  25  Apr.,  1873,  in  Westbrook. 

2.  Marietta  Smith,  b.  19  July,  1846;  mar.  (1st)  21  Dec,  1867, 
Charles  A.  Stackpole,  brother  of  George;  mar.  (2nd)  8  June,  1876, 
George  H.  Raymond,  son  of  Jonas  and  wife,  Mary.  Issue  by  first 
husband. 

1st.     Lucy  R.,  who  d.  in  infancy. 
2nd.     Mary  Read. 
Issue  by  2nd  husband: 

3d.     Fannie  Boothby,  b.  15  July,  1878. 

4th.     Marion  M.,  b.  7  Nov.,  1883;  d.  10  Sept.,  1884. 

3.  Ellen  Louise,  b.  9  Dec,  1854;  mar.  in  Sept.,  1883,  Frank  J. 
Dana,  son  of  Luther,  of  Portland;   d.  24  Aug.,  1894.     Issue: 

1st.     Marion  Pickford,  b.  27  Jan.,  1887. 

4.  John  Sewall,  b.  8  Nov.,  1859;  d.  18  Sept.,  i860. 


222  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From    Family    No.    6.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Zachariah,  Daniel,  Daniel,  Levi. 

Levi  Brackett  was  born  March  io,  1805,  in  Portland,  Me.;  was 
reared  in  Orleans  county,  N.  Y.;  was  a  farmer  in  New  York;  died 
about  1842;  married  Lucina  Ritter,  born  about  1S06,  died  in  1882. 
Issue: 

1.  Nathaniel,  is  dec;  mar.  Laura  Mitchell,  who  is  dec;  lived  in 
Clarendon,  N.  Y.;  had  three  children,  the  oldest  a  son,  Welcome; 
there  was  another  son  who  lived  and  died  on  his  father's  farm. 

2.  Abigail,  mar.  Otis  Coy;  (2nd)  Joseph  Doubleday;  she  is  dec; 
had  children,  Alonzo:  dau.  Lucina,  and  another. 

3.  Daniel,  is  dec;  mar.  in  Gaines,  Mich.,  Mary  Jane  Rusco:  no 
issue. 

4.  Levi,  b.  1  Mar.,  1833.     See  family  14. 

5.  Solon,  b.  28  Sept.,  1837.     See  family  15. 


FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From    Family    No.    6.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Daniel,  Daniel,  Reuben  C. 

Reuben  C.  Brackett  was  born  December  2,  1806,  in  Portland, 
Me.:  was  reared  in  Orleans  county,  N.  Y.;  a  farmer  in  Niagara 
county,  N.  Y.;  died  February  2,  1888;  married  Lovina  Weaver,  who 
died  in  September,  1848,  daughter  of  Russel  Weaver  and  wife,  Lydia 
Cowell,  of  Niagara,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1.  Emogene,  b.  9  Nov.,  1840,  in  Murraj',  Orleans  county,  N.  Y.: 
mar.  8  Feb.,  1868,  Henry  L,-  Rhodes,  a  farmer  in  Monroe  county, 
Wisconsin,  b.  7  July,  1834.  son  °f  Charles  and  wife,  Sally  Smith,  of 
Genesee  county,  N.  Y.;  home,  in  Sparta,  Wis.     Issue: 

]st.     Harry  C,  b.  12  Dec,  1S68;   resides  in  Sparta,  Wis. 

2nd.     Arthur  L-,  b.  26  Jan.,  1870;  resides  in  Wonewoc,  Wis. 

3d.  Eva  I.,  b.  22  Dec,  1871;  mar.  1  Aug.,  1900,  Edwin  J. 
Freeman;  resides  in  Minneapolis,  at  1006,  21  Ave.,  S.  E. 

4th.  Lula  M.,  b.  4  Apr.,  1880;  mar.  19  Sept.,  1900,  Edward 
Allendorf;  resides  in  Sparta.     Issue: 

I.     Spencer  Brackett,  b. 

L'.  Fairmina,  b.  2  Dec,  1846,  in  Clarendon,  N.  Y.:  mar.  25  Dec, 
1866,  Henry  A.  Carr,  a  farmer  in  Murray,  N.  Y.,  b.  7  July,  1846, 
son  of  Henry  N.  and  wife,  Mary  M.  Olmstead,  of  Royalton,  Niagara 
county,  N.  Y.      Issue: 

1st.     Herbert  L.,  b.  29  Jan.,  1868;   resides  in  Holley,  N.  Y, 

2nd.  Floyd  L.,  b.  16  June,  1875;  mar.  3  Mar.,  1896,  Sadie 
Cook;  resides  in  Holley,  N.  Y.     Issue 

I.     Clayton  C,  b. . 

3.  Orson  C,  b.  20  Apr.,  1848;  mar,  Emma  Rafter:  resides  in 
Sumner,  Iowa. 


ZACHARIAH,    OF    STEVENS'    PLAINS  223 

FAMILY     NO.     11., 

From  Family  No.  6.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Daniel,  Daniel,  John. 
John  Brackett  was  born  May  2,  1815,  in  Sweden,  Monroe  county, 
X.  V.;  a  farmer  in  Niagara  county,  later  in  Clarendon,  Orleans 
county,  N.  Y.;  about  1864.  engaged  in  hardware  trade  in  Holley.  X. 
Y..  which  he  conducted  several  years;  in  1890,  he  returned  to  Clar- 
endon, where  he  died  August  3,  1893.  Married  March  6,  1839, 
Lucinda  Burnham,  born  February  18,  1817,  died  February  24,  1895, 
dau.  of  William  and  wile,  Phebe  Sprague,  of  Holley,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1.  Martin  E.,  b.  13  Apr.,  1842.  in  Clarendon,  N.  Y.,  where  he 
practiced  his  profession  of  medicine;  a  graduate  of  Buffalo  Medical 
college;  d.  3  Jan.,  1904;  mar.  (1st)  in  1867,  Elmira  Ranney,  who  d. 
13  Dec,  1872;  mar.  (2nd)  12  Dec,  1889,  Mary  Goodnow.     No  issue. 

2.  William  A.,  b.  24  Feb.,  1845.     See  family  16. 

3.  Charlotte  C,  b.  30  Mar..  1848;  d.  30  Sept.,  1854. 

1.  Flla  L..  b.  29  May,  1852;  mar.  Fordyce  Stearns:  d.  15  Aug., 
1885.     Issue: 

1st.      Marion  C. 
5.      Elmer  J.,  b.  3  Feb..   [860;  d.  23  Dec,  1878. 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From    Family    No.    6.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Daniel,  Daniel,  Rufus. 
Rufus  Brackett  was  born   May  15.    1817;   a  farmer  in  Royalton, 
Niagara  county,  X.  Y.;  married  Brittana  Orr;  is  deceased.     Issue: 

1.  Josephine  A.,  b.  27  June,  1850,  in  Royalton,  N.  Y.;  mar. 
John  Dayton  Sheldon,  a  farmer  in  Middleport,  Niagara  county,  b.  22 
Feb.,  1846,  son  of  Joseph:  he  was  b.  in  1818,  mar.  Sophia  Dayton, 
lived  in  Middleport,  was  son  of  Elijah;  he  was  b.  1793,  mar.  Clarissa 
Alvord,  lived  in  Royalton,  X.  Y.,  was  son  of  Elijah;  he  was  b.  1762, 
mar.  Sally  .Sheldon,  was  son  of  Elijah;  he  was  b.  173S,  mar.  Rachel 
Hanchet,  was  son  of  Elijah;  he  was  b.  1719,  mar.  Sarah  King,  was 
son  of  Jonathan;  he  was  b.  1687,  mar.  Mary  Southwell,  was  son  of 
Isaac;  he  was  b.  in  1629  in  Windsor,  Conn.,  mar.  (2nd)  Mrs.  Mehet 
Ensign;  he  was  son  of  Isaac  the  immigrant,  b.  in  1605,  was  in  Dor- 
chester, Mass.,  in  1634.     Issue: 

1st.  John  Dayton,  b.  19  Aug..  1874;  an  attorney  at  law  in 
Dockport,  N.  Y.;  mar.  14  Sept.,  1904,  Irma  M.  Pixley. 

2nd.  George  R.,  b.  2  Feb.,  1876;  mar.  8  June,  1904,  Janet  M. 
Smith;  home,  in  Middleport,  X.  Y. 

3d.     Flora  M.,  b.  27  Aug..  1884. 

2.  Dydia,  mar.  Dr.  George  P.  Richardson;  home,  in  Middleport. 
.'!.     George,  mar.  Ella  Huntley;  home,  in  Royalton. 

4.  Joanna,  mar.  James  Bowles;  home,  in  Royalton. 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From    Family    No.   6.       Descent:     Anthony,     Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Daniel,  Daniel,  Josiah. 
Josiah   Brackett  was   born   September   13,    1826,   in   Clarendon. 
Orleans  county.  N.   Y.;  a  farmer  in  XTewstead,  Erie  county.  X.   Y.; 


224  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

died  January  3,  1879:  married  November  12,  1848,  LydiaC.  Stevens, 
born  August  26,  1826,  died  May  22,  1898,  daughter  of  Harry  C.  and 
wife,  Charlotte  Owen,  of  Newstead,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1.  Levi  Eugene,  b.  28  June,  1850;  d.  9  June,  1853. 

2.  Charlotte  Evangeline,  b.  1  Oct.,  1854,  in  Newstead;  mar.  16 
Feb.,  1S74,  Nicholas  Corbett,  b.  16  Mar.,  1852,  son  of  Daniel  and 
wife,  Nancy  Wycoff;  is  a  farmer  in  Newstead.     Issue: 

1st.     Eula  J.,  b.  9  Feb.,  1877. 
2nd,     Eugene  E.  b.,  31  Jan.,  1879. 

3.  Alva  L-,  b.  13  Sept.,  1859;  mar.  Nellie  M.  Brat;  resides  in 
Akron,  Erie  county,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1st.     Leah  C,  b.  3  Aug.,  1884. 
2nd.     Wayne  Daniel,  b.  2  Feb.,  1888. 
3d.     Goldia  Sarah,  b.  8  Oct.,  1892. 
4th.     Richard  Lyon,  b.  10  Sept.,  1896. 
5th.     Ruth  Leona,  twin  with  Richard. 

4.  Orris  Harry,  b.  17  Nov.,  1861;  mar.  Ella  C.  Pardee;  home,  in 
Akron,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1st.     Ethel  May.  b.  19  Mar.,  1890. 
2d.     Bessie  Luella,  b.  17  Aug.,  1891. 
3d.     Anna  Yiola.  b.  25  Apr.,  1894. 


NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  9.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Daniel,  Daniel,  Levi,  Levi.- 
Levi  Brackett  was  born  March  1,  1833,  in  Clarendon,  N.  Y.;  is 
a  carpenter  and  joiner  in  Ewing,  Nebraska;  removed  to  Flint,  Mich., 
in  1848;  to  Columbus  city,  Iowa,  in  1856;  to  Oakdale,  Neb.,  in  1882; 
to  Ewing,  Neb.,  in  1887.  Married  March  2,  1856,  Mary  A.  Rail, 
born  September  11,  1837,  died  in  1888,  daughter  of  Jacob  W.  and 
wife,  Catherine,  of  Flint,  Mich.     Issue: 

1.  George  Edwin,  b.  in   1859;  mar.  in  Oct.,    1884,  Martha  Aring- 
ton;  home,  in  Davenport,  Iowa.     Issue: 

1st.     Glen,  b.  in  1885. 
2nd.     Guy,  b.  in  1887. 

2.  Mary  Castilla,    b.   in   1864;    mar.   in   1881,    Selah  K.   Hobbie; 
home,  in  Wynne  Wood,  Okla.     Issue: 

1st.     Frank,  b.  in  Mar.,  1882. 
2nd.     Mvrta,  b.  in  1884. 
3d.     Gene. 

3.  Katherine  Florence,  b.  in   1866;    mar.  in   1886,   Montague  D. 
Wheeler:  home,  in  Norfolk,  Neb.     Issue: 

1st.     Jennie,  b.  in  1887. 
2nd.     Merle,  b.  in  1889. 

4.  Belle  Eliza,  b.  in  1869;  mar.  26  Jan.,  1889,  Ira  C.  Reno;  home, 
in  Oakdale,  Neb. 

5.  Alfred  Jacob,  b.  in   1873;  mar.  24  Jan.,  1900,  Emma  Hartung, 
home,  in  Fontanelle,  Neb.     Issue: 

1st.     Irene,  b.  19  Apr.,  1902. 


ZACHARIAH,    OF    STEVENS'    PLAINS  225 

2nd.     Ruth. 
3d.     Gertrude. 

6.  Sherman  E.,  b.  in  1875.     See  family  17. 

7.  Levi  Eugene,  b.  in  1882;  mar.'  in  Aug.,  1902,  Belle  Brandon; 
home,  in  Wahoo,  Neb.     Issue: 

1st.     Claude,  b.  18  June,  1903. 
2nd.     Edna,  b.  4  Feb.,  1905. 

FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From    Family    No.    9.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Zachariah.  Daniel,  Daniel.  Levi.  Solon  F. 

Solon  F.  Brackett,  a  farmer  in  Lennon,  Shiawassee  county, 
Mich.,  was  born  September  28,  1837,  in  Clarendon,  Orleans  county, 
New  York:  removed  to  Michigan  when  about  twelve  years  old,  where 
he  has  since  resided  in  Shiawassee  and  Genesee  counties.  Married 
March  2.  [856,  Mary  Shatto,  born  October  24,  1837,  daughter  of 
John  and  wife.  Magdalena  Ohl,  of  Michigan.     Issue: 

1.  Emma  R.,  b.  8  June,  1857;  d.  1 8  July,  1862. 

2.  George  L.,  b.  14  Mar.,  1S60;  mar.  10  Aug.,  1878,  Clara  Pace; 
resides  at  4618  Lester  St.,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  Has  dau.  who  mar. 
Paul  Langman,  whose  children  are  Ivan  and  Lynne  Langman. 

3.  Frank  S.,  b.  1  July,  1868;  mar.  20  Feb.,  1890,  May  Herington; 
home,  in  Waterloo,  Ont.     Issue: 

1st.     George  Elliott. 
2nd.     Lottie. 

FAMILY   NO.    16. 

From    Family    No.    11.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony.    Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Daniel,  Daniel,  John,  William  A. 

William  A.  Brackett  was  born  February  24,  1845,  in  Clarendon, 
N.  Y.;  a  tinsmith  and  plumber;  since  1905,  a  groceryman;  resided 
in  Akron  and  Murray,  N.  Y.;  Central  City,  Neb.;  Flint,  Gobleville 
and  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.,  in  the  order  named;  married  (1st)  March 
8,  1869,  Delia  A.  Snow,  born  in  1847,  died  November  17,  1880, 
daughter  of  Minos  Snow;  (2nd)  January  1,  1884,  Anna  C.  Warren, 
born  January  17,  1846,  daughter  of  Jonathan  and  wife,  Naomi  War- 
ren.    Issue: 

1.  Zadah,  b.  2  Jan.,  1870;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1889,  Hugh  Moyer;  d. 
5  July,  1900.     Issue: 

1st.     Carl. 

2.  Bell  M..  b.  13  June,  1873;  resides  in  East  Kendall,  N.  Y. 

3.  Edna  M.,  b.  10  Aug.,  1875;  mar.  in  1892,  William  Beauer; 
resides  in  Lockport,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1st.     Rachel. 
L'nd.      Dayton. 


226  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

TENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    17. 

From    Family  No.    14.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Zachariah,  Daniel,  Daniel,  Devi,  Devi,  Sherman  E. 

Sherman  Edgar  Brackett,  a  machinist  and  dealer  in  sporting 
goods,  of  Seattle,  Washington,  was  born  in  1875,  at  Columbus 
junction,  Iowa;  with  his  father  removed  to  Norfolk,  Neb.,  and 
thence  he  went  to  Seattle.  Married  April  12,  1899,  Maude  Ellis, 
born  January  24.  1878,  daughter  of  Frank  and  wife,  Mary  Hall,  of 
Oberlin,  Ohio.     Issue: 

1.     Lawrence  Ellis,  b.  8  Aug.,  1904,  in  Seattle,  Wash. 


JOSHUA,    OF    PRESUMPSCOT  227 


DIVISION   NO.   7. 


LIEUTENANT    JOSHUA    BRACKETT    OF    PRE- 
SUMPSCOT.   AND    HIS    DESCENDANTS. 


FIFTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY  NO.  1. 
From  Chapter  6.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah,  Joshua. 
Joshua  Brackett  was  born  June  7,  1723,  in  Falmouth.  At  the 
time,  the  Three  Years  or  Lovewell's  war  was  going  on,  and  the 
season  when  his  birth  occurred,  was  that  in  which  attacks  by  the 
Indians  on  the  settlements,  were  most  liable  to  be  made.  For  secur- 
ity from  these  attacks  the  family  was  dwelling  in  some  garrison 
house  on  the  Neck,  when  it  was  increased  by  the  advent  of  young 
Joshua.  Born  in  the  midst  of  warfare,  this  person  was  destined  to 
take  an  active  part  in  every  subsequent  war  with  one  exception,  in 
which  the  people  of  Maine  became  engaged,  during  his  long,  eventful 
life  of  ninety-three  years.  The  first  mention  of  an  event  concerning 
him  contained  in  any  published  document,  is  of  the  fact  shown  by 
the  record  of  the  First  church  in  Falmouth,  that  on  April  11,  1742, 
he  was  admitted  into  full  communion  with  that  church.  Also  dur- 
ing that  year  was  admitted  into  full  communion  with  this  church, 
a  young  lady,  a  Miss  Esther  Cox.  She  was  a  daughter  of  John  Cox 
who  lived  on  the  Neck  near  Robison's  wharf.  He  was  the  first  of 
the  name  in  Falmouth,  by  occupation  a  mariner,  and,  probably, 
because  of  his  exploits  during  Lovewell's  war,  had  earned  for  himself 
the  distinction  of  being  called  the  "Old  Ranger;"  was  admitted  in 
1727,  an  inhabitant  of  the  town  and  lost  his  life  in  May,  1747,  in  the 
defense  of  a  fort  at  Pemaquid,  which  was  taken  by  the  Indians. 
Cox  and  fifteen  others  were  the  garrison;  all  were  killed,  wounded 
or  captured.  He  owned  a  tract  of  land  on  the  Presumpscot  river,  not 
far  from  Riverton  Park,  a  part  of  which  is  still  owned  and  occupied 
by  his  descendants  through  his  daughter  Esther.  The  intention  to 
marry  of  this  daughter  and  Joshua  Brackett,  was  published  Decem- 
ber 9,  1744.  Within  a  few  weeks  after  their  marriage,  he  left  with 
his  company  for  the  siege  of  Louisburg.  That  fortress  surrendered 
on  June  17,  1745.  The  organization  in  which  he  served  was  Captain 
Humphrey  Cobb's  company,  Colonel  Samuel  Waldo's  regiment. 
The  character  and  duration  of  the  service  he  rendered  during  this 
war  with  the  French  and  Indians  from  1744  to  1748,  or  King  George's 
war,  is  shown  by  the  petition  of  the  survivors  of  his  company,  to  the 
general  court  for  a  grant  of  land.  Therein  it  is  set  forth  that  the 
petitioners  were  on  the  expedition  against  Louisburg,  "not  only  until, 
but  for  some  considerable  time  after,  the  reduction  of  the  place,  for 
its  defense,"  and  until  relieved  by  "His  majasties  troops  from  Gib- 
ralter;"  in  all  about  sixteen  months  from  leaving  their  homes;  "the 
fatigue  of  which  service  your  Excellency  and  Honors  are  well  known 


228  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

to";  that  the}-  were  "put  out  of  their  usual  way  of  business,"  and 
this  proved  very  detrimental  to  them;  that  maivy  "have  no  lands  nor 
wherewith  for  purchase." 

Their  petition  met  with  approval.  The  land  allotted  to  them  is 
now  a  part  of  the  present  town  of  Standish,  Me.  Many  of  the  peti- 
tioners settled  on  the  grant.  Joshua  Brackett,  however,  lived  con- 
tinuously in  Falmouth.  About  the  beginning  of  the  last  French  and 
Indian  war,  he  lived  on  what  was  known  as  the  Bramhall  farm.  In 
an  affidavit  made  by  him,  dated  October  13,  1810,  he  stated  his  age 
to  be  eighty-seven  years;  that  he  was  well  acquainted  with  said  farm, 
which  in  1756,  he  hired  for  three  years  and  paid  to  Bramhall  thirty 
pounds  old  tenor  and  kept  twenty  sheep  for  him;  that  he  lived  in 
a  house  on  the  farm  "until  I  was  obliged  to  go  into  the  army  which 
I  did  at  that  time;  my  family  continued  there  some  time  after  I  was 
gone,  and  paid  Bramhall;"  that  the  house  was  built  when  he  was 
about  ten  years  old,  and  "on  what  was  called  Bramhall's  point  where 
there  were  some  apple  trees." 

The  purpose  of  this  affidavit  evidently  was  to  show  title  to  the 
land  in  question,  in  some  person  claiming  title  under  Bramhall. 
There  is  little  reason  to  doubt  that  Joshua  was  away  from  his  home 
in  the  army  for  many  months.  He  was  a  private  in  Captain  James 
Milk's  Falmouth  Neck  company;  his  name  is  contained  in  a  list  of 
those  who  belonged  to  it,  dated  May  10,  1757.  Also  his  name  is 
in  a  list  of  Captain  Isaac  Ilsley's  Back  Cove  company,  dated  August 
16,  1757.  From  the  contents  of  his  affidavit  it  is  clear  that  his  ser- 
vice during  the  last  war  with  the  French  and  Indians,  did  not  consist 
in  belonging  to  a  local  military  company  which  remained  in  Fal- 
mouth; he  refers  therein  to  a  period  when  he  was  absent  from  his 
home  in  the  army;  he  was  with  some  military  expedition  for  which 
Falmouth  was  required  to  furnish  her  quota,  and  his  stay  was  for 
a  longer  period  than  a  year.  When  the  War  of  the  Revolution  com- 
menced, this  seasoned  veteran  of  two  long  wars,  was  in  the  fifty-sec- 
ond year  of  his  age.  There  was  a  demand  for  the  services  of  men  of 
his  experience  for  officers.  He  was  commissioned  second  lieutenant 
in  Captain  Joshua  Wentworth's  company,  Colonel  Ebenezer  Francis' 
regiment.  His  name  appears  in  pay  abstract  for  travel  allowance, 
dated  at  Watertown,  Mass.,  August,  1776;  also  in  return  of  men  at 
Dorchester  heights  in  Northern  department,  year  not  given,  but  roll 
indorsed  "reported  by  Brig  Whitcomb  August  23,  1776."  Record 
shows  he  was  credited  to  Cumberland  county.  Tater  in  the  war 
opportunity  presented  itself  for  him  to  serve  in  a  military  expedition 
fitted  out  near  his  home,  viz.,  the  one  known  as  the  expedition 
against  the  Penobscot.  To  serve  therein  he  enlisted  as  a  private  in 
Captain  William  Cobb's  company,  Cumberland  county  regiment, 
July  8,  1779,  and  was  discharged  September  25,  1779,  at  Falmouth; 
was  with  the  detachment  under  Colonel  Jonathan  Mitchell.  Is 
described  in  the  records  as  "Joshua  Brackit  of  Presumpscot."  There 
was  no  Joshua  Brackett,  other  than  he  and  his  son  Joshua,  living  on 
the.  Presumpscot  at  the  time,  and  his  son  Joshua  was  not  on  this 
expedition. 

His  name,  with  those  of  three  of  his  brothers  (all  of  his  brothers 
except  Abraham),  is  found  in  a  list  of  tax  payers  of  the  year  1760,  in 
Falmouth;  the  same  names  are  contained  in  a  list  of  the  names  of 


JOSHUA,    OF    PRESUMPSCOT  229 

persons  who  paid  tax  in  1765,  in  support  of  a  Congregational  church 
in  Stroudwater  parish.  Also  his  name  and  the  names  of  four  of  his 
sons,  are  found  in  a  list  of  tax  payers  in  Falmouth,  in  the  year  1777. 
It  was  probably  about  the  close  of  the  last  French  and  Indian 
war,  that  Joshua  took  up  his  abode  on  the  Presumpscot  river,  on 
a  tract  of  land  that  was  the  property  of  his  father-in-law,  John  Cox; 
there  he  resided  the  remainder  of  his  days.  Let  us  hope  that  happi- 
ness was  his  lot,  and  that  of  this  world's  goods  he  had  sufficient  to 
meet  his  simple  wants.  He  lived  to  hear  the  news  of  Old  Hickory's 
victory  at  New  Orleans;  and  glorious  news  it  was  to  this  old  veteran. 
On  the  occasion  of  his  first  visit  to  Portland  after  hearing  of  this 
triumph  of  our  arms,  it  is  safe  to  venture  that  it  was  well  known  that 
Lieutenant  Joshua  Brackett  was  in  town,  by  those  people  living  in 
Portland  who  would  have  rejoiced  had  the  Americans  been  worsted 
in  the  battle.     He  died  at  his  home  in  the  year  18 16.     Issue: 

1.  Daniel,  b.  in  1745.      See  family  2. 

2.  Mercy,  bapt.  in  1747,  in  First  church  in  Falmouth;  mar.  7 
Jan.,  1768,  Benjamin  Lunt,  b.  15  Aug.,  1747,  d.  in  Jan.,  1822,  son  of 
James;  he  was  son  of  2d  Henry  who  was  b.  23  June,  1698,  in  New- 
bury, Mass.,  and  wife  Hannah,  dau.  of  Joseph  Noyes.  Issue  were 
fifteen  children  of  whom  fourteen  lived  to  marry;  among  others 
were — 

Mary,  b.  T9  May,  1779;  mar.  James  Brackett  (see  div.  3,  fam.  2). 
Mercy,  b.  26  Aug.,  1795;  mar.  Zachariah  Brackett  (see  fam.  9). 

3.  Anthony,  b.  in  1749.     See  family  4. 

4.  Tabitha,    mar.  William  Toby. 

5.  James,  b.  20  Apr.,  1752.     See  family  3. 
<i.      Abraham.      See  family  5. 

7.  Samuel,  probably  b.  about  1756;  enlisted  15  July,  1775,  in 
Captain  Samuel  Knight's  company,  served  six  months  and  one  day; 
stationed  at  Falmouth.  Also  enlisted  in  Captain  William  Crocker's 
company,  Cumberland  county  regiment,  served  from  1  Mar.,  1776, 
to  31  Aug.,  1776;  stationed  at  Falmouth.  Also  enlisted  in  Captain 
William  Crocker's  company,  Colonel  Mitchell's  regiment  and  served 
from  31  Aug.,  1776,  to  23  Nov.,  1776,  date  of  discharge,  2  months 
and  23  days;  stationed  at  Falmouth.  Also  enlisted  in  Captain  Clark's 
company,  Colonel  Tupper's  regiment.  Name  shown  on  Continental 
army  pay  accounts  for  service  from  1  Jan.,  1777,  to  30  June,  1778; 
enrolled  for  three  years.  Reported,  died  30  June,  1778.  It  is  not 
known  that  he  was  ever  married. 

8.  Joshua,  b.  31  July,  1762.     See  family  6. 

9.  Joseph;  he  lived  in  Westbrook  and  died  unmarried. 

FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.  1.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Daniel. 
Daniel  Brackett  was  born  and  raised  in  Falmouth.  The  records 
of  the  First  Parish  church  of  Falmouth  show  that  in  1745,  was  bap- 
tized a  child  of  "Joshua  and  wife  Elizabeth  Brackett,"  as  the  printed 
copies  of  the  record  read.  One  might  well  mistake  Esther  for  Eliza- 
beth (which  former  name  was  that  of  the  wife  of  Joshua),  when  read- 
ing the  writing  of  the  pastor  at  the  time,  which  is  most  difficult  to 


230  BRACKETT    GENEALOGY 

decipher.  The  name  of  the  child  is  not  contained  in  the  record.  It 
is  but  a  guess  that  the  name  of  the  child  was  Daniel.  It  is  not 
known  with  certainty  as  to  the  number  of  children  of  whom  Joshua 
Brackett  and  his  wife  Esther  were  the  parents.  Mr.  Willis  wrote 
that  the}7  had  a  large  family.  There  is  extant  a  record  of  some  of 
his  children;  it  is  not  supposed  to  be  complete.  We  know  of  no 
family  of  which  the  subject  of  this  sketch  could  have  been  a  member 
other  than  the  family  of  Joshua  Brackett,  among  whose  soldier  sons 
he  is  worthy  to  be  numbered. 

Daniel  Brackett  enlisted  February  16,  1776,  in  Captain  Benja- 
min Hooper's  company,  served  to  August  31,  1776;  stationed  at 
Falmouth.  It  was  perhaps  he  who  married  February  4.  1777,  Sarah 
Gould. 

It  is  much  regretted  that  so  little  has  come  down  to  us  concern- 
ing this  Daniel  Brackett.  It  was  by  the  mere  chance  of  a  letter  writ- 
ten by  one  of  his  grandsons  to  a  party  in  Maine,  making  inquiry 
about  the  Portland  property-matter,  that  communication  was  secured 
with  any  of  his  descendants.  He  lived  and  died  about  five  miles 
from  Portland  in  the  direction  of  Westbrook  from  that  city.  Issue, 
not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Hannah,  who  mar.  Nathaniel  Proctor. 

2.  Jane;  no  further  record. 

3.  Mary,  who  mar.  Bond;  had  two  sons,  one  named  Edwin;  he 
served  in  the  civil  war  and  lived  in  Portland;  both  sons  were  copper- 
smiths. 

4.  Cox;  no  further  record. 

5.  Daniel,  b.  in  1792.     See  family  7. 

6.  James,  who  died  in  the  town  of  West  Indies,  Penobscot  county, 
Me. 

7.  Elijah,  who  was  married. 

8.  Davenport,  who  lived  in  Westbrook  at  an  early  day  of  the 
town;  was  there  in  1828. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From    Family    No.    1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Anthony. 

Anthony  Brackett  was  born  in  1749,  on  his  father's  farm  border- 
ing on  the  Presumpscot  river.  On  this  farm  he  lived  until  his  death 
about  1821;  it  is  still  owned  and  occupied  by  his  descendants.  His 
wife's  maiden  name  was  Mary  Coffey. 

Served  in  Captain  Joseph  Pride's  company;  enlisted  October  11, 
1779;  discharged  October  23,  1779;  "served  at  the  Eastward"  in 
detachment  of  Cumberland  county  militia  under  command  of  Na- 
thaniel Jordan.  Also  probably  served  as  private  in  Captain  Tobias 
Lord's  company,  from  April  15,  1776,  to  November  25,  1776,  at 
Falmouth.      Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  James,  b.  2  Oct.,  1775.     See  family  8. 

2.  Ephraim,  who  never  married. 

3.  Samuel.  The  nearest  living  relatives  of  this  man  do  not  know 
anything  about  him,  do  not  know  wmether  or  not  he  was  married.  It 
is  conjectured  that  his  children  were  Joshua  who  was  drowned  in 
vSaco  river;  one  daughter,   and  another  son,  Jeremiah,   born   about 


JOSHUA,    OF    PRESUMPSCOT  231 

1805,  who  married  Sarah  Tibbetts  and  died  at  about  the  age  of  thirty- 
seven  years.  Jeremiah  had  children,  Charles  H.;  Sarah  Jane;  Ira 
T.;  Mary  Ann,  and  Almon  D.  All  are  dead  except  Ira  T.  He 
wrote—  "All  I  can  tell  you  is  that  my  family  were  Westbrook 
Bracketts.  *  *  we  knew  nothing  about  the  Bracketts  because  we 
lived  among  my  mother's  people  (upon  the  death  of  the  father);  my 
wife  says  that  my  mother  said  that  my  grandfather's  name  was 
Samuel.     I  know  he  had  a  brother  Zachariah." 

There  was  no  family  around  Westbrook  with  sons  Zachariah  and 
Samuel,  other  than  that  of  Anthony  Brackett. 

Ira  A.  Brackett  was  born  about  1838;  married  29  June,  1856;  is 
a  house-painter;  has  had  six  children,  all  of  whom  are  dead  except 
son  Ira  T.,  who  is  an  overseer  in  the  paper  mills  of  S.  D.  Warren 
&  Co.,  of  Cumberland  Mills,  Me.;  his  family  consists  of  one  boy  and 
two  girls. 

Almon  D.  Brackett,  brother  of  Ira  T.,  was  born  22  Sept.,  1837, 
in  Limerick,  Me.;  d.  14  Apr.,  1895;  was  a  carriage-dealer;  resided  in 
Somerville;  mar.  2  Aug.,  1857,  Sarah  E.  Wallis,  b.  11  Nov.,  1838, 
dau.  of  Aaron  and  wife,  Betsey  Barrett,  of  Ipswich,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Sadie  M.,  b.  13  Nov.,  1858. 

2nd.     Charles  H.,  b.  22  Sept.,  1864;  d.  14  June,  1901. 

3d.     Ira  Almon,  b.  22  Mar.,  1865,  in  Limerick,  Me.;  is  a  dealer 
in    carriages;   resides    in    Somerville,    Mass.;    mar.    24    Nov.,    1898, 
Katheriue  K.   McCabe,   b.   22  Oct.,    1866,  dau.  of   Martin  and  wife, 
Mary  Ryan,  of  Winchendon,  Mass.      Issue: 
I.     Martin  R.,  b.  4  June,  1900. 

4th.     Elizabeth,  1).  13  Mar.,  1866. 

5th.     Harry  E.,  b.  25  Dec,  1880. 

4.  Mary,  mar.  13  Apr.,  1806,  Orlando  Hines. 

5.  Hannah,  mar.  1  Aug..  1802,  Enoch  Mood}'. 

6.  Dorcas,   mar.  Wilbur. 

7.  Zachariah,  b.  12  Feb.,  1789.     See  family  9. 

8.  Tabitha,  b.  in  1795;  d.  15  Oct.,  1878;  mar.  29  Nov.,  1815, 
Robert  McFarland,  b.  in  1782,  d.  19  Aug.,  1819;  mar.  (2nd)  Knight. 
Issue: 

1st.  Ephraim  Wilbur  McFarland,  b.  9  Jan.,  1819;  d.  8  July, 
1893;  mar.  24  Dec,  1847,  Hannah  Maria  Hodgkins.     Issue: 

I.  Robert  E.,  b.  22  June,  1850;  d.  19  Sept.,  1875;  mar.  Jannie 
Kimball;  had  dau.,  Nellie  F.,  who  d.  6  Oct.,  1884. 

II.  Laura  A.,  b.  16  Sept.,  1852;   mar.  William  F.  Hatch. 

III.  Ephraim  A.,  b.  1  Feb.,  1857;  mar.  Mary  I.  McGeouch. 
Children,  Maria  M.;  Alfred  W.;  Clara  B.;  Ephraim  A.;  Grace  M.; 
Alice  M.;   Robert  E.;   Laura;   Hannah  G.;  Albert  F. 

2nd.     Margaret,  mar.  Joseph  York;  dau.  Mary  mar.  Noyes. 
3d.     Harriet,  mar.  Joseph  Colley. 

FAMILY    NO.    4. 

From    Family    No.    1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  James. 
James  Brackett  was  born   20  Apr.,    1752,   in  that  part  of  Fal- 
mouth now  a  part  of  Westbrook;  was  commonly  known  as  "Uncle 
Jimmy."     He  owned  a  farm  on  the  banks  of  the  Presumpscot  river, 


232  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

adjoining  the  farm  of  his  brother  Anthony;  lived  all  his  life  from 
the  close  of  the  Revolutionary  war,  in  the  vicinity  of  Westbrook, 
except  for  nine  years  when  he  lived  in  Limington.  It  is  probable 
that  he  was  twice  married.  His  second  marriage  was  on  March  17, 
17S5,  with  Jenny  Mosher  Akers  (see  chapter  VI).  The  records  of 
the  town  of  Gorham  read,  that  the  intention  to  marry  of  Thomas 
Brackett  and  Jenny  Akers  was  published  March  20,  1784;  there  is  an 
error,  as  said,  records  also  show  that  Jenny  Akers  and  James  Brackett 
of  Falmouth  w^re  married  on  the  date  stated  above.  At  the  time 
there  was  no  James  Brackett  in  Falmouth,  other  than  the  subject  of 
this  sketch,  who  could  have  become. her  husband. 

That  James  Brackett  was  a  widower  at  the  time  of  his  marriage 
to  Jenn}'  Akers  is  probable.  The  census  of  1790  shows  him  a  resi- 
dent of  Falmouth  with  a  family  of  three  males  under  the  age  of  six- 
teen and  five  females,  including  his  wife.  The  census  of  1800  shows 
in  his  family  four  males  under  the  age  of  ten  j-ears;  three  under  the 
age  of  sixteen  years;  one  female  under  the  age  of  ten  years;  two 
under  the  age  of  sixteen  years  and  one  under  the  age  of  twenty-six 
years.  The  census  of  18 10  shows  in  his  family,  two  males  under  the 
age  of  ten  years;  two  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years,  and  one  female 
over  the  age  of  forty-five  years.  Subsequent  censuses  to  and  includ- 
ing 1830,  show  him  living  in  Westbrook,  but  throw  no  light  upon  the 
membership  of  his  family.  His  wife  probably  died  before  1820,  and 
from  then  on  there  lived  with  him  the  family  of  some  of  his  children. 

James  Brackett  was  a  soldier  and  served  on  the  right  side,  other- 
wise he  would  not  have  been  a  sou  of  Joshua  Brackett.  By  his  affi- 
davit filed  August  1,  1832,  in  his  claim  for  pension  he  testified  to  his 
being  past  the  age  of  eighty  years  and  to  the  date  of  his  birth;  that 
his  first  term  of  service  was  in  1775,  in  Captain  John  Brackett's  com- 
pany; marched  in  April  of  that  year  to  Cambridge,  joined  Phinney's 
regiment  and  served  eight  months;  was  discharged  in  January,  1776. 

The  published  records  show  that  he  was  a  private  in  Captain 
John  Brackett's  company,  Colonel  Edmund  Phinney's  regiment; 
name  on  billeting  roll  from  date  of  enlistment,  May  16,  1775,  to  date 
of  marching  to  headquarters,  Jul}-  3,  1775,  equivalent  to  forty-eight 
days;  marched  from  Falmouth.  Name  found  on  company  return 
dated  September  29,  1775;  also  found  on  roll  of  Captain  James  John- 
son's (formerly  Brackett's)  company,  Colonel  Edmund  Phinney's 
regiment;  given  order  dated  October  14,  1775,  fort  No.  2,  Cam- 
bridge, for  bounty  coat  or  its  equivalent  in  money. 

His  testimony  was  further  that  on  February  2,  1776,  at  Fal- 
mouth, he  enlisted  for  eight  months,  which  he  served  in  Captain 
William  Crocker's  company,  engaged  in  building  forts;  was  not 
attached  to  any  regiment  until  spring,  when  joined  by  other  com- 
panies and  Major  Noyes,  and  General  Hall  took  command. 

The  record  of  this  term  of  service  reads,  that  he  was  a  private, 
name,  James  Brackett,  Jr.,  in  Captain  William  Crocker's  company, 
Colonel  Mitchell's  regiment,  from  March  1,  1776,  to  date  of  discharge, 
November  23.  1776.     Stationed  at  Falmouth. 

He  mentioned  as  his  third  term  of  service,  his  enlistment  into  a 
company  of  artillery,  in  the  latter  part  of  spring  or  early  summer  of 
1777,  stationed  at  Falmouth,  commanded  by  Abner  Lowell,  and 
attached  to  no  regiment. 


JOSHUA,    OF    PRESUMPSCOT  233 

With  respect  to  this  service  there  is  of  record  that  James  Brackett 
of  Falmouth,  served  as  matross  in  Captain  Abner  Lowell's  artillery 
company,  from  January  i,  1777,  to  March  31,  1777,  three  months; 
name  on  roll  dated  July  31.  Company  reported  August  11,  1777,  as 
mustered  by  Colonel  Noyes,  agreeable  to  sea  coast  establishment. 

With  respect  to  his  fourth  term  of  military  service,  James  Brackett 
testified  that  on  March  4,  1 7 7 S ,  he  enlisted  to  serve  nine  months 
in  Captain  Jesse  Partridge's  company;  marched  to  Peek.skill  in  New 
York,  and  joined  Colonel  Greaton's  regiment,  then  marched  to  White 
Plains. 

The  record  of  this  service  reads  that  James  Brackett,  private  in 
Captain  Jesse  Partridge's  company,  Colonel  John  Greaton's  regiment, 
enlisted  April  1,  1778,  was  discharged  November  30,  1778;  served 
eight  months  at  North  river  with  Falmouth  volunteers. 

One  of  the  witnesses  for  James  Brackett,  in  his  claim  for  pension, 
was  Peter  Brackett.  The  claim  was  allowed,  and  pension  was  paid 
to  him  until  his  death. 

It  is  confessed  that  the  names  of  his  children  are  not  known  with 
certainty;  the  names  of  persons  mentioned  as  bearing  the  relation  of 
children  to  James  Brackett,  are  believed  to  have  been  his  children, 
for  the  reason  that  they  were  born  and  lived  in  and  near  Westbrook, 
and  it  is  not  known  to  whose  family  they  could  have  belonged,  unless 
to  his  family.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Thomas. 

2.  Hannah,  who  mar.  about  1810,  Silas  J.  Ward. 

3.  Moses,   mar.    30  Aug.,  1821,  Ednah  Barbour. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From    Family    No.    1.       Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Abraham. 

Abraham  Brackett  was  born  about  1754,  in  Falmouth.  The  first 
Federal  census  (1790)  shows  him  a  resident  of  Limington,  Me.,  then 
known  as  Little  Ossipee;  also  census  of  1810  shows  him  a  resident  of 
Limington.  His  name  does  not  appear  in  census  of  1820;  he,  per- 
haps, had  died  before  that  year.  His  wife's  maiden  name  was  Susan 
Miller.  Enlisted  as  a  private,  April  1,  1778,  in  Captain  Jesse  Par- 
tridge's company,  Colonel  John  Greaton's  regiment,  and  served  to 
November  1,  1778,  at  North  river,  with  Falmouth  volunteers.  Also 
enlisted  October  1,  1779,  as  a  private  in  Captain  Joseph  Pride's  com- 
pany; discharged  October  23,  1779;  detachment  from  Cumberland 
county  militia,  under  command  of  Nathaniel  Jordan.  Issue,  not  in 
order  of  birth: 

1.  Sally,  b.  in  1786;   d.  at  about  the  age  of  20  years. 

2.  Tabitha,  b.  20  Sept.,  1787;  d.  4  Dec,  1885;  mar.  Samuel  Grril- 
ford.  who  d.  13  Dec,  1813;  mar.  (2nd)  Daniel  Pugsley,  son  of 
Andrew  and  wife,  Miriam  Sawyer;  he  was  a  farmer  in  Cornish,  Me. 
Issue:  William  B.;  Samuel;  Abraham  B.;  Susan,  b.  17  Nov.,  1813; 
John,  b.  2  Jan.,  1820,  mar.  Hannah  Norton;  Charlotte  W.,  b. 
28  July,  1821,  living  in  1900;  Betsey;  Lucinda,  mar.  Dennis  Johnson; 
Moses,  mar.  Hannah  Chaney;  Daniel,  b.  2  July,  1828,  mar.  Julia  A. 
Chaney,  (2nd)  Helen  Guptill,  resides  in  Cornish;  Mary  A.,  mar.  John 
P.  Bradeen,  home  in  Cornish. 


234  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

3.  William,  d.  at  age  of  20  years. 

4.  Betsey,  mar.  Richard  Mayberry  of  Gorham;   d.  in  1869. 
f>.     Jane,  mar.  John  Tolman  of  Portland. 

6.  ''.Ann,  b.  7  Dec.,  1795;  mar.  Moses  Winslow  of  Falmouth. 
Issue:  \John;  Charles;  James;  Henry;  Cordelia;  Francis;  Edwin, 
Lucy;   Frederick;   Moses. 

7.  Dennis,  b.  May  7,  1799.      See  family  10. 

8.  Benjaiwin.      See  family  11. 

9.  Abraham     See  family  12. 

10.  Thomas,  d.  young  and  unmar. 

11.  Edward,  b.  6  Jan.,  1806.     See  family  13. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From  Family  No.  1.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born  July  31,  1762,  in  Falmouth.  Enlisted 
April  18,  1780,  in  Captain  Joseph  Pride's  company,  Colonel  Joseph 
Prime's  regiment;  discharged  December  6,  1780.  In  claim  for  pen- 
sion, under  act  of  June  7,  1832,  he  testified  by  affidavit  filed  August 
20,  1832,  that  he  was  70  years  of  age,  was  drafted  to  serve  as  a  militia- 
man; went  into  Captain  Pride's  company  in  April,  1780;  did  duty  as 
a  private,  in  Portland,  for  the  term;  was  in  a  detachment  to  serve  on 
barges,  or  guard  boats,  to  coast  along  the  shore  and  protect  fishermen 
and  other  small  craft  from  a  British  privateer  commanded  by  a  Cap- 
tain Moett. 

The  year  following  his  discharge  from  the  army,  he  removed  to 
Dimington.  Married  May  6,  1784,  Pydia  Hasty,  born  June  6,  1767, 
died  November  6,  1841,  daughter  of  Robert  and  wife,  Elizabeth 
Parabee  (Watson),  of  Pimington.  Resided  in  Pimington  until  his 
death,  June  10,  1849;  was  a  farmer.     Issue: 

1.  Joseph,  b.  10  Nov.,  1785.     See  family  14. 

2.  Elizabeth,  b.  23  Feb.,  1787;  mar.  Thomas  Meloy  of  Gorham. 
Issue:     James;   Pydia;  Mary;   Frances. 

3.  Dorothy,  b.  13  June,  1789;  d.  unmar.  at  age  of  86  years. 

4.  Robert,  b.  28  Sept.,  1791.     See  family  15. 

5.  Esther,  b.  15  Dec,  1793;  d.  7  June,  1842;  mar.  William  Pibby; 
lived  in  Newfield,  Me.,  and  Great  Falls,  N.  H.  Issue:  Dorothy,, 
mar.  Newcomb;  William,  mar.  Sawin,  (2nd)  Temple;  Eliza  A.,  mar. 
White;  Mary,  mar.  Pang;  Dorcas,  mar.  Record;  Pydia,  mar.  Ham- 
blen, (2nd)  Winn;  Rufus  Brackett,  mar.  Wood;  Lucinda  Brackett, 
mar.  Dutton;  James,  mar.  Bennett;   Royal,  mar.  Rullen. 

6.  Joshua,  b.  18  Apr.,  1796.      See  family  16. 

7.  Pydia,  b.  12  Apr.,  1798;  mar.  Robert  Staples;  lived  in  Sebago. 
IssUe:      Pydia;   Enoch;   Mary;   Margaret;    Charles. 

8.  Mary,  b.  12  Mar.,  1800;  mar.  29  March,  1820,  Samuel  Ingalls, 
b.  3  July,  1792,  d.  7  Feb.,  1843;  she  d.  15  July,  1830.  Issue:  Gard- 
ner;  Susan;   Sylvanus;  Joshua;   Samuel. 

9.  Hannah',  b.  6  July,  1802;  d.  21  Feb.,  1872;  mar.  3  July,  1831, 
Samuel  Ingalls;  he  was  son  of  Francis  of  Bridgton,  and  wife,  Betsey, 
and  grandson  of  Isaiah,  son  of  Francis.  Issue:  Susan;  Hannah; 
Ellen;   Enoch. 

10.  Samuel,  b.  29  Mar.,  1805.     See  family  17. 


JOSHUA,     OF     PRESUMPSCOT  235 

11.  Almira,  b.  9  Oct.,  1806;  d.  1  Nov.,  1863;  mar.  Francis  Ingalls; 
lived  in  Naples.  Issue:  1st.  Almira,  mar.  John  Brackett  (see  fam. 
18,  div.  4).  2nd.  Francis  O.,  mar.  Nancy  R.  Vance;  (2nd) 
Eliza  K.  Fisher;  lived  in  Naples,  Me.,  and  Linden,  Mass.  Issue: 
Charles  M.;  Emma  J.;  Lizzie  L.;  William,  and  Adelbert.  3d.  Mary 
E.  4th.  Margaret  M.  5th.  Violet  M.,  b.  20  June,  1847,  mar. 
Nathan  C.  Mendell,  dec;   has  one  child,  Harold  H.,  b.  16  Jan.,  1881. 


SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From    Family    No.    2.       Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Daniel,  Daniel. 

Daniel  Brackett  was  born  in  Falmouth,  in  1792.  He  was 
scarcely  of  age  when  the  war  with  England  commenced  in  1812. 
He  served  on  an  American  war  vessel  until  the  close  of  hostilities, 
when  he  went  to  Merimichie,  Canada,  where  he  bought  a  tract  of 
pine  land.  After  disposing  of  his  timber  he  went  to  Barthurst,  New 
Brunswick,  at  which  place  he  met  his  future  wife,  Miss  Mary  Connel, 
born  in  Ireland.  At  Rcstigouchie,  one  hundred  miles  from  Bart- 
hurst, in  the  wilderness,  lie  purchased  four  hundred  acres,  and  com- 
menced farming.  There  lie  resided  until  1872,  when,  with  his  large 
family,  he  removed  to  Wisconsin.  He  died,  at  the  age  of  eighty-four 
years,  in  1876.  His  wife  died  February  22,  1889,  at  the  age  of 
eighty-one  years.      Issue: 

1 .  James. 

2.  Davenport,  who  d.  about  1855,  near  Davenport,  Iowa. 

3.  Mary  Jane. 

4.  Nancy,  mar.  Patterson;   had  son  Daniel. 

5.  Daniel. 

6.  Solomon. 

7.  Johanna. 

8.  Elijah,  b.  in  1S27.  In  the  year  1850,  he  was  in  the  town  of 
West  Indies,  Me.,  with  James  M.  Dudley,  a  lumberman. 

9.  Thomas. 

10.  Jane,  b.  13  Feb.,  1840;  mar.  9  Dec,  1863,  George  McFarlane, 
b.  20  Apr.,  1840,  d.  6  Nov.,  1884,  son  of  John  and  wife,  Martha 
Sharpe,  of  New  Brunswick;  lived  in  Broadlands,  Quebec;  and  Eau 
Claire,  Wis.;  resides  in  Rice  Fake,  Wis.     Issue: 

1st.  James  B.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1865;  mar.  23  Mar.,  1887,  Helen  I. 
Hathawav;  resides  in  Rice  Fake.  Issue:  Keith  V.,  b.  7  Feb.,  1888; 
Ellen  B.,'b.  7  Nov.,  1889;  Jennie  G.,  b.  11  Sept.,  1896;  Howard  J., 
b.  28  Dec,  1898;   Faith,  b.  25  June,  1902. 

2nd.  Daniel  D.,  b.  14  July,  1868;  mar.  21  Mar.,  1894,  Carrie  E. 
Bronson;  resides  in  Alma  city,  Minn.  Issue:  Gordon  E-,  b.  5  Oct., 
1898;   Helen  I.,  b.  10  Oct.,  1900;   Burmah  E.,  b.  6  Jan.,  1903. 

3d.  William  J.,  b.  14  July,  1868;  mar.  19  Aug.,  1895,  Susie  M. 
Reitz;  resides  in  Rice  Fake,  Wis.  Issue:  Irene  C,  b.  9  July,  1897; 
Douglas  W.,  b.  19  July,  1901;  Calista  A.,'b.  — May,  1903;  Margue- 
rite P.,  b.  1  Nov.,  1904. 


236  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

4th.     George  T.,  b.   9   Jan.,    1870;    mar.   23  Dec.,    1901,   Angie 
Smith:  resides  in  Rice  Lake.     Issue:     Ellen,  b.  30  Sept.,  1902. 

5th.      Earl  A.,  b.  4  May,  1877;   mar.  24  Dee.,  1902,  Lottie  Hurd; 
resides  in  Birchwood,  Wis.     Issue: 

I.      Blanche  D.,  b.  4  Oct.,  1903. 
6th.     Arthur  E.,  b.  24  Mar.,    1879;  mar.   7  Aug.,    1903,   Lottie 
Skinner;   resides  in  Rice  Lake.      Issue: 
I.     Van  E.,  b.  9  July,  1904. 

11.  George,  b.  22  May,  1841.      See  family  18. 

12.  Mary,  never  mar.;   home,  in  Albertville,  Chippewa  co.,  Wis. 
I.-;.      Abraham,  b.  in  1842.      See  family  19. 

14.  Josiali. 

15.  John. 

16.  Eliza. 

17.  Jeremiah. 

IS.     William,  b.  in  Sept.,  1852.     See  family  20. 

19.  Ellen,  b.  18  Sept.,  1854;  mar.  19  Mar.,  1875,  James  Polley, 
b.  9  Mav,  1853,  son  of  James  and  wife,  Jane  Robertson,  of  St.  Stephens, 
New  Brunswick;  resides  in  Albertville,  Wis.  Mr.  Polley  is  a  lumber- 
man.     Issue: 

1st.     George  A.,  b.  2  May,    1877;  mar.  16  June,    1904,   Abbie  J. 
Hurlburt;  resides  in  Winona,  Minn. 
2nd.     Vera  G.,  b.  15  Feb.,  1884. 
3d.     Manford  J.,  b.  31  Oct.,  1885. 

20.  Margaret. 

It  is  believed  that  none  of  the  sons  had  families  other  than  those 
whose  families  are  given. 

FAMILY  NO.  8. 
From  Family  No.  3.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Anthony,  James. 
James  Brackett  was  born  October  2,  1775;  removed  to  Portland, 
Me.,  where  he  resided  until  his  death,  in  1859;  was  a  truckman; 
married  June  20,  1802,  Rachael  A.  Waterhouse,  born  December  13, 
1780,  died  in  September,  1864.     Issue: 

1.  Francis,  b.  8  Jan.,  1807;  d.  young. 

2.  Mary  Coffey,  b.  4  Oct.,  1808;  d.  13  Jan.,  1892;  mar.  David 
Briggs,  special  policeman  in  Copp's  cemetery;  lived  in  Portland  and 
East  Portland.     Issue:     Arabella;  Mary;  Caroline;   Charles. 

3.  James  Francis,  b.  6  Oct.,  1810;  d.  young. 

4.  George  C,  b.  19  Aug.,  1813.     See  family  21. 

5.  James,  Jr.,  b.  5  Dec,  1816.     See  family  22. 

6.  Edward,  b.  31  Jan.,  1819.     See  family  23. 

7.  Elizabeth  Frances  Waterhouse,  b.  15  June,  1821;  d.  28  Apr., 
1899;  mar.  Andrew  Douglass,  son  of  Andrew  and  wife,  Elizabeth 
Peacock.     Issue: 

1st.     Emily,  who  mar.  George  Hanson. 
2nd.     Henrietta,  who  mar.  Curtis. 
3d.     Arietta,  who  mar.  George  Lewis. 


JOSHUA,    OF    PRESUMPSCOT  237 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From    Family    No.    3.       Descent:       Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Anthony,  Zachariah. 

Zachariah  Brackett  was  born  February  12,  1789,  on  the  farm 
which  was  owned  by  his  ancestors,  situated  in  that  part  of  the  town 
of  Falmouth  now  a  part  of  Westbrook.  On  this  farm  he  resided  until 
his  death.  May  3,  1874.  He  served  in  the  war  of  1812,  from  Septem- 
ber 8  to  September  20,  18  14,  in  the  Stroudwater  light  infantry  com- 
pany, .Massachusetts  militia,  at  the  time  commanded  by  Lieutenant 
Nathaniel  Leighton;  during  its  service  the  company  was  stationed  at 
Portland.  Married  October  14,  1818,  Mercy  Lunt,  born  August  26, 
1795,  died  February  24,  1844,  daughter  of  Benjamin  and  wife,  Mercy 
Brackett  (see  fam.  1);  mar.  (2nd)  March  2,  1847,  Rebecca  Roberts, 
born  in  1800,  died  February  15,  1871.     Issue: 

1.  Samuel  M.,   b.   3   Sept.,    1819;  mar.   Henrietta  Bartman;  d.  28 
Dec.  1881.     No  issue. 

2.  Benjamin  L.,  b.   [8  Feb.,   1822;   d.  26  Apr.,  1846. 
.'!.     Frances  Ellen,  b.  13  July,  1823:   d.  7  May,  1839. 

4.  Alton  C,  b.   15  Mar.,   1X27.      See  family  24. 

5.  Mary  Jane.  b.  20  Jan.,  1832;  d.  1  June,  1838. 

6.  Horatio  S..  b.   14  June    1835;  mar.  Ida  York;  home,  in  Somer- 
ville,  Mass.      Issue: 

1st.     Alice,  who  mar.  Hathaway;   have  son,  Donald,  b.  in  1897. 
2nd.      Lena. 


FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From    Family    No.    5.       Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,     Zachariah, 
Joshua.  Abraham,  Dennis. 

Dennis  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington,  Me.,  May  7,  1799;  died 
October  31,  1855;  married  Ellen  C.  Bisbee,  born  April  17,  1801,  died 
Mareli  30,  1853,  daughter  oi  Moses  Bisbee  of  Waterford,  Me.,  born  in 
1766.      Resided  in  Waterford.      Issue: 

1.  Edward,  b.  25  Jan.,   1826;  d.  6  Nov.,  1867. 

2.  Dennis,  Jr.,  b.  in  1834.      See  family  25. 

3.  Nathan  C,  b.  13  Sept.,  1835,  in  Waterford,  Me.;  a  farmer  at 
Newton  Highlands.  Mass.;  formerly  resided  at  Lancaster,  Mass.; 
mar.  26  Sept.,  1861,  Luann  L.  Bisbee,  b.  23  Jan.,  1839,  dau.  of  Moses 
and  wife,  Elinor  Beatty,  of  Waterford,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Angle  L-,  b.  20  Mar.,  1869;  home,   at  Newton  Highlands. 

4.  George  S.,  b.  in  1837;  d.  in  1856. 

5.  Louville  W.,  b.  in  1839;  a  resident  of  Milan,  N.  H.,  when  he 
enlisted,  22  May,  1861,  for  3  years  in  company  F,  2nd  New  Hamp- 
shire volunteer  infantrv;  killed  21  July,  1861,  in  battle  of  Bull  Run, 
Va. 

C>.  Miranda,  b.  in  1840;   d.  10  Jan.,  1848. 

7.  Susan  E.,  b.  in  1842;   d.  16  Feb.,  1847. 

8.  Olive  W.,  b.  in  1843;  d.  6  Apr.,  1869,  in  Berlin,  N.  H. 

9.  Charles  W.,  b.  in  1846;  d.  6  Oct.,  1865. 


238  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From    Family    No.    5;      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Abraham,  Benjamin. 

Benjamin  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington;  lived  on  the  home 
farm  a  number  of  years  and  then  moved  to  Portland;  he  mar.  Dorcas 
Irish;  died  in  1838.     Issue: 

Four  children,  William;  Jane;  Mary;  and  Elizabeth;  all  of  whom 
died  during  the  winter  of  1838. 

5.  Mehitable  Smith,  b.  in  1820;  mar.  Freeman  Libbey.     Issue: 
1st.     Sarah  J.,  b.  10  Jan.,  1843;  mar.  Jordan  D.  Johnson. 

2nd.  Stephen,  b.  15  Nov.,  1844,  d.  16  Aug.,  1868;  mar.  Nora 
R.  Huckins. 

3d.     Louisa,  b.  5  Jan.,  1851;  mar.  Joseph  H.  Perry. 

6.  Ann,  who  mar.  William  Newcomb;  is  dec. 

7.  Dorcas,  who  mar.  Charles  Tatterdon;  is  dec. 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From    Family    No.    5.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Abraham,  Abraham. 

Abraham  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington;  married  August  12, 
1821,  Mary  Fickett;   he  died  in  Brighton,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Clement,  b.  in  1826;  mar.  Mary  A. ;  harness-maker;  re- 
moved to  New  Jersey;  had  dau.  Catharine,  b.  in  i860. 

2.  Solomon  S.,  b.  in  1827.     See  family  26. 

3.  Charles  H.,  b.  in  Aug.,  1830,  in  Limington;  d.  21  June,  1874; 
a  harness-maker;  mar.  Jane  Hilton;  (2nd)  Sarah  L.  Anderson. 
Issue: 

1st.     Leon  H.;  unmarried. 

2nd.  Ida  C,  mar.  William  Lewis;  home,  in  Cumberland  Mills; 
children  are  Jennie  M.  and  Arthur  P. 

4.  Richard,  b.  in  1836;  no  further  record. 

5.  David;  went  to  New  Jersey. 

6.  Jane. 

7.  Edward,  b.  in  1831;  is  dec. 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Abraham,  Edward. 
Edward  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington,  January  6,  1806;  mar- 
ried Abigail  Berry,  born  in  1804,  died  in  1869,  in  Harrington,  Me., 
daughter  of  James.  He  was  a  Methodist  minister;  in  1850,  was  lo- 
cated in  New  Castle,  Me.;  died  in  Biddeford,  in  November,  1869. 
Issue: 

1.  Susan  Amanda,  b.  in  1832;  unmarried. 

2.  Mary  Palmer,  b.  in  1838;  mar.  in  Sept.,  1858,  Joseph  H.  West, 
b.  in  1835;  resides  in  Franklin,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Gracie,  d.  14  Oct.,  1876. 
2nd.     Genevieve. 

3.  Edward,  b.  in  1843;  d.  during  the  civil  war;  probably  served 
in  company  D.,  22  Maine  volunteer  infantry;  enlisted  16  Oct.,  1862, 
in  Harrington;   d.  in  New  Orleans,  La. 


JOSHUA,     OF     PRESUMPSCOT  239 

FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From    Family    No.    6.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Joseph. 

Joseph  Brackett  was  born  November  io,  1785,  in  Limington; 
removed  to  Casco  in  1828,  where  he  resided  until  his  death  prior  to 

i860;    was    a    farmer;    married  October  15, ,  Lydia    Pugsley  of 

Cornish.     Issue: 

1 .  IyOrina,  who  never  mar. 

2.  Lydia,  b.  27  Apr.,  1808;  d.  18  Oct.,  1859;  mar.  Benj.  Jones. 
Issue: 

1st.  Lorina.  2nd.  Benjamin,  mar.  Martin;  had  Hattie,  mar. 
Evans;  Mary,  mar.  Parker;  Charles.  3d.  Caroline,  mar.  James  A. 
Green,  (2nd)  Alanson  E.  Lunt.  4th.  Martha.  5th.  Lydia  E.,  mar. 
Leavitt.  6th.  Martha,  mar.  Staples.  7th.  Joseph.  8th.  Ada,  mar. 
Morse;  home  in  Otisfield,  Me.  9th.  Mary.  All  dec,  except  Mrs. 
Eunt  and  Mrs.  Morse. 

3.  Esther,    b.    29    Oct., ;  mar.    Stephen    Caldwell;    lived    in 

Cambridge,  Mass.     Issue:     1st.  Maria,  mar.  Green  and  had  Alice, 
who  mar. Brackett.     2nd.   Randolph.     3d.   Murat.    4th.  Julia  A. 

4.  Thomas;  mar.  Mary  Jane  Boynton;  lived  in  Salem,  Mass.;  d. 
26  July,  18S1;  no  issue.  Will  dated  18  July,  1881;  estate  inventoried 
$16,063.90,  all  devised  to  wife;  will  contested  by  heirs;  was  a  teamster. 

5.  Joshua,  b.  26  May,  1814.     See  family  27. 

6.  Robert,  b.  9  Aug.,  1817.     See  family  28. 

7.  Benjamin,  b.  in  1818;   never  mar. 

8.  Joseph,  b.  in  1822;  mar.  Sarah  A. :  lived  in  Casco,  Me. 

9.  Martha,  b.  in  1825;  mar.  Charles  Mayberry. 

10.  Samuel,  b.  in  1827.     See  family  29. 

11.  Mary,  b.  in  1830;  mar.  William  Hamlin. 

FAMILY  NO.  15. 

From    Family   No.    6.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Robert. 

Robert  Brackett  was  born  September  28,  1791,  in  Limington, 
Me.,  where  he  lived  until  his  death,  April  24,  1876;  was  a  farmer. 
In  the  war  of  181 2,  he  served  for  a  short  time  as  a  soldier.  Mar- 
ried October  29,  1818,  Aphia  Libby,  born  June  21,  1799,  died  No- 
vember 26,  1884,  daughter  of  Rufus;  he  was  born  in  Scarboro,  May 
4,  1773,  died  in  Limerick,  Dec.  5,  1858,  married  Dorcas  Strout,  was 
son  of  Philemon;  he  was  born  May  29,  1749,  in  Scarboro,  lived  in 
Limington,  where  he  died  December  22,  181 1,  married  Martha  Small, 
was  sou  of  Captain  John;  he  was  born  about  1700,  married  (2nd) 
August  24,  1738,  Anna  Fogg;  was  son  of  Henry;  he  was  born  in 
Scarboro  in  1647,  died  October  21,  1732,  married  Honor  Hinkson 
(daughter  of  Peter,  the  immigrant),  was  son  of  John  who  came  from 
England  in  the  employ  of  John  Winter. 

Dorcas  Strout,  who  married  December  25,  1792,  Rufus  Libby, 
was  daughter  of  Elisha  and  wife,  Eunice  Freeman,  of  Gorham;  she 
died  in  December,  1849. 

Martha  Small,  who  married  May  8,  1791,  Philemon  Libby,  was 
born  November  28,    1752,   died  August  27,    1837,  was   daughter   of 


240  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Deacon  Samuel;  he  always  lived  in  Scarboro,  was  born  April  17, 
1700,  mar.  Ann  Hatch,  was  son  of  Samuel;  he  settled  on  the  homestead 
in  Kittery,  was  born  in  1666,  married  Elizabeth  (widow  of  James 
Chadbourne  and  daughter  of  Ensign  Heard),  was  son  of  Francis;  he 
was  born  in  1627,  was  in  Dover  in  1648,  in  Falmouth  in  1657,  in  Kit- 
tery in  1668,  died  in  Cape  Cod,  1714,  was  probably  son  of  Edward; 
he  was  in  Kittery  as  early  as  1640. 

Anna  Fogg,  who  married  August  24,  1738,  Captain  John  Libby, 
was  born  February  16,  1718,  daughter  of  Captain  Daniel  Fogg;  he 
was  born  in  1660.  moved  to  Scarboro,  then  to  Portsmouth,  and  about 
1700,  settled  in  what  is  now  Eliot,  Me.,  married  Hannah  Libby, 
(daughter  of  John  Libby  of  Scarboro),  died  June  9,  1755,  was  son  of 
Samuel;  he  was  born  February  20,  1600,  came  in  1629,  from  Exeter, 
England:  was  in  Hampton  in  1638,  married  October  12,  1632,  Ann 
Shaw,  who  died  about  1661.     Issue: 

1.  Elizabeth,  b.  24  Jan.,  1821;  mar.  Edward  Clark;  d.  18  Aug., 
1849. 

2.  Harriett,  b.  6  Dec,  1822;  mar.  Edward  Clark;  d.  8  Feb.,  1896. 

3.  Robert,  b.  21  July,  1825.     See  family  30. 

4.  Caleb,  b.  8  Mar.,"  1828;  d.  21  June,  1856. 

0.  Almira,  b.  10  Nov.,  1830;  mar.  10  Dec,  1851,  George  Carll,  b. 
20  Feb.,  1826,  d.  24  Jan.,  1895,  son  of  Peletiah  and  wife,  Mary  S. 
Boody,  of  Limington;  was  a  farmer;  home,  in  White  Rock,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.  Lizzie  A.,  b.  25  Oct.,  1852;  mar.  26  Oct.,  1870,  Gustavus 
Plummer;  home,  in  White  Rock.     Issue: 

I.  Ashley  V.   Plummer,  b.  2  Sept.,  1871;  is  married;  has  son 
Russell  A.,  b.  31  Dec,  1897. 

II.  Bertha  M.,  b.  3  Sept.,  1872. 

III.  Edwin  G.,  b.  17  July,  1874. 

2nd.     Emma  L.,  b.  6  Sept.,  1854;  d.  13  Oct.,  1867. 
3d.     Van  Wert,  b.  17   Mar.,  1857;  mar.  26  May,  1883,  Lizzie  C. 
Sawyer;  is  a  farmer;  home.  White  Rock.     Issue: 

I.  Clarence  E.,  b.  26  Apr.,  1885. 

II.  Ruth  E.,  b.  26  Mar.,  1892. 

4th.     Lucy  E.,  b.  6  Aug.,  1867;   d.  31  Sept.,  1869. 
<i.     James  F.,  b.  16  Mar.,  1833.     See  family  31. 
7.     Charles  A.,  b.  10  Sept.,  1836.     See  family  32. 
s.     Frederic,  b.  20  June,-  1838.     See  family  33. 

9.  Frances  E.,  b.  22  Mar.,  1841;  mar.  E.  Grant  Strout. 

10.  Rufus,  b.  11  Feb.,  1819;  d.  22  Aug.,  1822. 

FAMILY    NO.    16. 
From    Family    Xo.    6.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington,  Me.,  April  18,  1796; 
married  April  20,  1821,  Lydia  Abrams,  born  July  11,  1801,  died  in 
1849,  daughter  of  Ralph  and  wife,  Mehitable  Welch;  was  a  black- 
smith; resided  in  Portland;  died  in  1828,  in  New  York  city,  where 
he  went  for  work.     Issue: 

1.  Ann  Mira,  b.  15  Apr.,  1822;   d.  15  Dec,  1837. 

2.  William  H.,  b.  18  Jan.,  1823;   d.  7  Jan.,.  1838. 

.;.     Charles  C,  b.  18  May,  1826;  home,  in  Knightsville,  Me. 
4.     Joshua,  b.  9  Nov.,  1828.     See  family  34. 


JOSHUA,     OF     PRESUMPSCOT  241 

FAMILY    NO.    17. 

From    Family    No.    6.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington,  Me.,  March  29,  1805; 
married  January  14,  1827,  Susan  Foss  of  Limerick,  Me.,  born  in 
1806,  died  January  1,  1879,  daughter  of  Lemuel  and  wife,  Polly 
Gove;  moved  from  Maine  to  Janesville,  Wis.,  later  to  La  Crosse, 
Wis.,  where  he  died  September  25,  1859.     Issue: 

1.  Samuel,  Jr.,  b.  1  Aug.,  1828.     See  family  35. 

2.  Joshua,  b.  in  1829;  mar.  Isabelle  Hanson;  d.  14  Feb.,  1869; 
had  one  child  which  d.  when  six  mos.  old. 

3.  Mary,  b.  8  Mar.,  1831;  mar.  9  June,  1852,  George  Ruggles, 
who  d.  9  Jan.,  1899;  home,  in  Charlestown,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.  Fred  W.,  b.  1  Jan.,  1855;  mar.  Marian  Lawrence;  home, 
in  Woburn,  Mass. 

2nd.  Carrie  E.,  b.  26  Feb.,  1857;  mar.  Clarence  H.  Bates;  d. 
17  Dec,  1877.     Issue: 

I.     Carrie  E.  Ruggles  Bates,  b.  17  Dec,  1877. 

3d.     James  I.,  b.  22  Feb.,  1861;  d.  in  June,  1866. 

4th.     George,  b.  in  Apr.,  1864;  d.  in  June,  1866. 

5th.  George  F.,  b.  16  Dec,  1867;  mar.  in  Nov.,  1889,  Minnie 
Welch:  home,  in  Winthrop,  Mass.     Issue: 

I.      Alice  M.,   b.    1  June,    1890.     II.   Blanch  E.,  b.    in   Oct., 
1891.     III.   Marian  W.,  b.  1  Sept.,  1892. 

(5th.  James  H.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1871;  mar.  in  June,  1893,  Sarah 
Bere;  home,  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

I.     Jack  E.,  b.   in  Mar.,  1894.     II.   Helen,  b.  in  July,  1895. 
III.  James  H.,  Jr.,  b.  3  Jan.,  1897.     IV.   Louise,  b.  in  June,  1899. 

4.  Susan,  b.  8  July,  1832;  mar.  in  1852,  David  Polleys,  who  d.  in 
Dec,  1899.  Settled  in  Juneau  co.,  Wis.,  in  1854;  moved  to  Da 
Crosse,  Wis.,  in  1856,  where  she  d.  27  Dec,  1898.  Had  Ida,  b.  in 
1859,  and  Harry,  who  is  dec. 

5.  John  H.,  b.  4  Aug.,  1833.     See  family  36. 

6.  James  M.,  b.  18  Apr.,  1835.     See  family  37. 

7.  Charles  A.,  b.  in  1837.     See  family  38. 

8.  Alice,  b.  in  1839;   mar.  Joseph  Pratt;  d.  1  June,  1865. 

9.  Nelson,  b.  19  June,  1840.     See  family  39. 

10.  Maria,  b.  10  Nov.,  1841;  mar.  2  Dec,  1857,  Ephraim  Polleys 
of  Melrose,  Wis.,  b.  in  May,  1832,  in  Nova  Scotia;  mar.  (2nd) 
Harry  Marsh;   home,  in  Cleveland,  Ohio.     Issue  by  1st  husband: 

1st.  Clifford,  b.  2  Dec,  1858;  mar.  Elizabeth  Fisher;  home,  in 
L,e  Clair,  Iowa.     No  issue. 

2nd.  Mettie,  b.  7  Oct.,  1862;  mar.  in  Feb.,  1885,  Wm.  G. 
DeVol;   home,  in  Cleveland.     Issue: 

I.     Sylvia,   mar.  J.  Burt  Calkins,  general   baggage  master  of 
the  Big  Four  railroad;   d.  27  Jan.,  1906;  resided  in  Cleveland.     Issue: 
a.     William  Gray,  b.  12  Jan.,  1906. 

3d.  Abner  C,  b.  17  Feb.,  1866;  lives  at  314  East  Indiana  street, 
Chicago;  is  president  of  the  American  Novelty  company  and  business 
manager  of  the  Fleur  de  Lis  Manufacturing  company;  is  unmar. 

11.  Harriet,  b.  30  Jan.,  1846;   mar.  15  Sept.,  1867,  S.  B.  Spencer, 

b.  7  Apr. ,^1837,  son  of  Elson  and  wife, Bailey,  of  Penn.;  home,  in 

Oshkosh.     Issue: 


242  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.  Son,  K.  E.,  b.  23  Sept.,  1873.  2nd.  Son.  F.  P..  b.  29 
May,  1877.     3d.   Dan.,  M.  A.,  b.  22  Nov.,  1889. 

12.  Jefferson,  b.  in  June,  1847;  never  mar.;  served  in  eo.  B., 
2nd  Wis.  vol.  inf.;   d.  in  a  hospital  in  Chicago,  in  Nov.,  1898. 

13.  Eliza,  1).  1  Jan.,  1850;  mar.  17  Sept.,  1866,  John  H.  Bristow. 
b.  6  May,  1833,  son  of  Edward  and  wife.  Hannah  Streeter,  of  Ontario, 
Canada;   is  a  blacksmith;  home,  in  La  Crosse,  Wis.     Issue: 

1st.  Alice,  b.  6  Sept.,  1867;  mar.  27  Dec,  1885.  Martin  J. 
Folev;  home,  in  La  Crosse,  Wis.  \  Issue:  Jessie,  b.  18  June,  1888. 
Alice  M..  b.  30  Dec,  1889.  Gladys,  b.  18  July,  1891.  Susie,  b.  14 
Mar.,  1893.     Bessie,  b.  24  Feb.,  1895.     John.  b.  12  Dec,  1897. 

2d.  Jessie,  b.  26  Apr.,  1869;  mar.  3  Apr.,  1886,  Alonzo  Cassidy; 
home,  in  La  Crosse,  Wis.  Issue:  Alice,  b.  3  Mar.,  1886.  Olive,  b. 
8  Feb.,  1888.  Frank,  b.  6  Mar.,  1890.  Eva,  b.  23  Dec,  1892. 
John,  b.  12  Oct.,  1894. 

3d.  Hattie,  b.  13  Jan.,  1871;  mar.  5  July,  1888,  William 
Eoomis;  home  in  Ea  Crosse,  Wis.  Issue:  Willis  E.,  b.  13  Sept.,  1889. 
Archie  E.,  b.  24  July,  1892.  Roy  E-.  b.  4  Jan.,  1894.  Harold  L.,  b. 
3  Mar..  1896.     Charles  E-,  b.  4  Aug.,  1898. 

4th.  Fannie  M.,  b.  25  Nov.,  1873;  mar.  20  June,  1894,  Fred- 
erick F.  Isenhour,  b.  22  May,  1862,  in  Filmore  co.,  Minn.,  son  of 
George  Alexander  and  wife,  Merilla  Knickerbocker  (b.  in  Connecticut, 
dau.  of  Samuel,  a  Continental  soldier);  George  Alexander  Isenhour  was 
b.  in  1 83 1,  in  New  York;  his  parents  in  1837,  moved  to  Canada,  and  in 
1859,  he  settled  in  Minnesota.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frederick  Isenhour 
reside  at  15 15  Summer  St.,  Houston,  Texas.  Issue: 
I.  Roger  B.,  b.  10  May,  1895. 
IE      Fay  E.,  b.  8  Mar.,  1898,  in  Wooster,  Texas. 

5th.  William,  b.  25  Aug.,  1875;  mar.  Edna  Rich  of  Sparta, 
Wis.;   has  dau.  Lois. 

6th.     John.  b.  13  June,  1878. 

7th.     Charles,  b.  1  Sept.,  1880. 

8th.     Pansy,  b.  25  Sept.,  1882;   d.  6  Apr.,  1885. 

9th.     Earl,  b.  6  Feb..  1886;   d.  16  July,  1886. 

10th.     Claude  W.,  b.  3  Apr.,  1888;  d.  29  Sept.,  1888. 

11th.     Clide  E.,  b.  twin  with  Claude  W.;  d.  24  Aug.,  1888. 

12th.     Sidney  B.,  b.  16  July,  1890. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From  Family  No.  7.  Descent:  Anthony.  Anthony,  Zachariah. 
Joshua,  Daniel,  Daniel,  George. 
George  Brackett  was  born  May  22,  1841,  in  Restigouchie,  New 
Brunswick;  married  in  June,  1877,  Etta  E.  Janes,  born  in  1858.  daugh- 
ter of  Edwin  and  wife,  Melvina  Kennedy;  is  a  lumberman  and  farmer; 
resides  in  Edmunds,  Washington,  the  site  of  which  he  purchased  in 
1876,  and  subsequently  platted.  He  came  to  Seattle,  Washington,  in 
1869,  from  which  city  his  present  home  is  sixteen  miles  distant.     Issue: 


JOSHUA,    OF    PRESUMPSCOT  243 

1.  George  S.,  b.  10  Mar.,  1878. 

2.  Fanny  B.,  b.  3  Aug.,  1879. 

3.  Nellie  E.,  b.  17  May,  1881. 

4.  Randa  C,  b.  24  Mar.,  1882. 

5.  Edith,  b.  28  Sept.,  1891. 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From    Family    No.     7.     Descent:     Anthony,     Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Daniel,  Daniel,  Abraham. 

Abraham  Brackett  of  Elk  Mound,  Wis.,  was  born  in  Restigouchie, 
New  Brunswick,  in  1842.  Married  in  1874,  Grace  Dempster,  born  in 
1845,  died  in  1882,  daughter  of  William.  Is  a  blacksmith;  formerly 
lived  in  Eau  Claire,  Wis.      Issue: 

1.  Daniel  W.,  b.  in  1875;   mar.  in  1900,  Minnie  Roscoe.     Issue: 
1st.      Roy,  b.  in  1903. 

2.  Jennie  M.,  b.  in  1877. 

3.  James  G..  b.  in  1878;   mar.  in  1901,  Lillian  Close.     Issue: 
1st.      Max.  b.  in  1903. 

4.  Saul  P.,  b.  in  1880. 

5.  George  T..  b.  in  1882;  d.  in  1883. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From     Family    No.     7.     Descent:     Anthony,     Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Daniel.  Daniel,  William. 

William  Brackett  was  born  in  September,  1852,  in  Canada;  is  a 
real  estate  agent  in  Edmunds,  Washington;  has  resided  in  county  of 
Buonaventure,  province  of  Quebec,  Eau  Claire,  Wis.,  and  Seattle, 
Wash.,  in  the  order  named:  married  July  30,  1889,  Anna  Dee,  born 
July  25,  [871,  daughter  of  Harry  Dee  and  wife,  Anna,  of  Lincoln, 
Nebraska.      Issue: 

1.     Willie,  b.  10  Apr.,  1891. 

L'.      Horton.  b.  15  Jan..   1893. 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From    Family    No.    8.     Descent:     Anthony,     Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Anthony,  James,  George  C. 

George  Clark  Brackett  was  born  in  Portland,  Me.,  August  19, 
1 81 3;  married  Emily  Douglass,  born  April  8,  18 10,  died  April  30, 
1893,  daughter  of  Andrew  D.  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Peacock,  of  Jeffer- 
son, Me.;  he  was  a  truckman;  lived  in  Portland;  died  January  15, 
1 89 1.     Issue: 

1.  Andrew  Douglass,  b.  16  Aug.,  1837;  mar.  in  i860,  Eliza 
Ann  Brackett  (see  div.  7,  fam.  22);  lived  in  Portland  to  1865,  then  in 
Roxbury  about  20  years;  home,  in  Somerville,  Mass.;  is  a  carriage- 
blacksmith.     Issue: 

1st.  Carrie  Ada,  b.  16  July,  1866;  mar.  Waldo  B.  Judkins, 
farmer;   home,  in  Fayette,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Dorothea,  b.  26  Oct.,  1900. 

II.  Inez,  b.  15  Feb.,  1902. 

2nd.     Charles  Warren,  b.  in  1871;  d.  in  1872. 


244  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2.  Elizabeth  Waterhouse,  b.  6  Sept.,  1839;  mar.  in  1863,  Charles 
Maverick,  b.  in  1836,  d.  in  Sept.,  1864,  of  yellow  fever,  four  days  off 
Cuba,  was  mate  of  vessel;  lives  with  brother  Andrew  D. 

3.  Raehael  Augusta,  b.  1  Sept.,  1841;  mar.  Daniel  F.  Potter; 
mar.  (2nd)  William  Owen.     Issue  by  1st  husband: 

1st.     Fred  A.,  mar.  Hattie  A.  Mereur;  lives  in  Portland;  is  con- 
nected with  news  agency.     Issue:   Delmar;   Edith;  Demase. 
Issue  by  2nd  husband,  William  Owen: 

2nd.  Frank  Curtis,  is  married;  lives  in  Los  Angeles,  Cal.;  has 
dau.  Yeulda,  b.  in  1904. 

3d.     Herbert  W.;  resides  in  Eewiston,  Idaho. 

4.  Catherine  J.,  b.  15  Feb.,  1843;  d.  in  Feb.,  1865. 

5.  George  Edward,  b.  in  Jan.,  1848;  d.  about  1852. 

FAMILY  NO.  22. 

From  Family  No.  8.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Anthony,  James,  James,  Jr. 
James  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  in  Portland,  Me.,  December  5, 
1816;  died  in  1872;  removed  from  Saco  to  East  Boston  where  he 
engaged  in  the  liquor  business;  married  Deborah  Earrabee  of  Durham, 
Me.,  born  in  1816,  died  in  1896.     Issue: 

1.  Eliza  Ann,  b.  in  1838;  mar.  Andrew  D.  Brackett  (see  div.  7, 
fam.  21 ). 

2.  Ellen  Maria,  b.  in  1840;  mar.  William  Norton;  home,  in  Wash- 
ington, D.  C. 

3.  George  H.,  b.  in  1842. 

4.  Abby  A.,  b.  in  1845;  mar.  John  E.  H.  Townsend;  home,  in 
Biddeford,  Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From    Family    No.    8.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Anthony,  James,  Edward. 

Edward  Brackett  was  born  in  Portland,  January  31,  1819;  mar- 
ried Jerusha  Hill;  married  (2nd)  Sarah  Hammond,  daughter  of  Seth; 
was  a  hackman  in  Portland;  moved  to  Boston  arid  kept  a  livery  stable 
on  North  Margin  street;  died  about  1880.     Issue,  by  1st  wife: 

1.  Mary,  b.  in  1838;  mar.  William  Norton.     Issue: 

1st.     Abby,  who  married  Eben  Perry  of  Brighton,  Mass. 

2.  James  Edward,  born  1840;  mar.  Mary  Scott;  manufacturer  and 
packer  at  49  Edgewood  street,  Roxbury,  Mass.     No  issue. 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 

From    Family    No.    9.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Anthony,  Zachariah,  Alton  C. 

Alton  C.  Brackett  was  born  March  15,  1827;  married  December 
6,  1854,  Sarah  Ann  Emit,  born  April  14,  1820,  died  November  21,  1897, 
daughter  of  Joshua  and  wife,  Mercy  Shaw,  of  West  Falmouth;  always 
lived  in  Westbrook  ( f ormerly  part  of  Falmouth)  on  the  farm  where 
lived  his  ancestors;  died  July  20,  1893.  Issue: 
1.     Hattie  E.,  b.  27  Dec,  1855;   d.  27  Oct.,  1866. 


JOSHUA,    OF    PRESUMPSCOT  245 

2.  Alfred  A.,  b.  4  May,  1857;  mar.  30  Aug.,  1881,  Nettie  Had- 
lock,  b.  26  Aug.,  i860,  dau.  of  Charles  W.  and  wife,  Melissa  Wins- 
low,  of  Portland;  is  a  farmer;   home,  in  West  Gardiner.     Issue: 

1st.     Alice  Maud,  b.  19  Nov.,  1883;   mar.  1  Jan.,  1900,  Harry  B. 
Hinkley. 

2nd.     Mary  Pearl,  b.  9  Sept.,  1894. 

3.  Ida  M.,  b.  11  Mar.,  i860;  mar.  John  A.  Tanner;  home  is  the 
farm  which  has  been  occupied  by  her  ancestors  for  five  generations, 
near  Riverton  Park  and  a  few  miles  from  Portland. 


FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From    Family    No.    10.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Abraham,  Dennis,  Dennis. 

Dennis  Brackett  was  born  in  1834,  m  Waterford,  Me.;  died  May 
12,  1869,  in  Milan,  N.  H.;  a  farmer;  married  November  26,  1858, 
Tryphena  Lary.  born  March  22,  1836,  died  April  4,  1906,  daughter 
of  Jotham  and  wife,  Eliza  J.  Jackman.     Issue: 

1.  D — A — ,  b.  15  Jan.,  i860;  farmer  and  stock  raiser  in  Jewell 
city,  Kas.;  formerly  resided  in  Carson,  Kas.;  mar.  30  Apr.,  1884, 
Alice  Jordan,  b.  14  Aug.,  i860,  dau,  of  L>  R.  and  wife,  Mary  Jen- 
kins.    Issue: 

1st.     Georgia,  b.  30  Mar.,  1889;  d.  3  Dec,  1893. 
2nd.      Mary,  b.  24^  Oct.,  1891. 

2.  Fannie,  b.  11  Mar.,  1862;   mar.  G.  G.  Harrison. 


FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From    Family    No.    12.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Abraham,  Abraham,  Solomon  S. 

Solomon  Strout  Brackett  was  born  in  1827;  was  a  carriage-maker; 
lived  in  Liniington,  Gorham,  and  Westbrook;  married  Catherine 
Meserve,  born  June  5,  1833,  died  February  24,  1898,  daughter  of 
Robert  and  wife,  Mehitable  Sawyer,  of  Gorham;  died  January  26, 
1859.     Widow  married  Tyng  Wilson  Dibby.     Issue: 

1.  Dana  A.,  b.  17  April,  1854,  in  Westbrook;  is  a  dealer  in  mer- 
chandise; lived  in  Westbrook,  now  resides  in  Gorham;  mar.  5  Aug., 
1877,  Mary  L.  Usher,  b.  27  Jan.,  1856,  dau.  of  Sidney  A.  and 
wife,  Mary  Frances  Dord,  of  Dimerick.     Issue: 

1st.     Tyng  W.,  b.  25  June,  1882. 

2nd.     Flora  K.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1879. 

FAMILY    NO.    27. 

From    Family    No.     14.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 

Joshua,  Joshua,  Joseph,  Joshua. 

Joshua   Brackett  was  born  in   Dimington,   Me.,    May   26,    18 14; 

lived  in  Casco;   married  Sally  Strout,  who  died  July  2,  1832,  daughter 

of  Samuel;   married  (2nd)  Caroline  Wright,  born  in  181 2,  who  was  liv- 

ng  in  1900;  died  February  21,  1899.     Issue: 

1.  Madison  B.,  b.  6  Mar.,  1832;   d.  2  July,  1832. 

2.  Jefferson  B.,  b.  6  Mar.,  1832.     See  family  40. 


24(3  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY  NO.  28. 
From  Family  Xo.  14.  Descent:  Anthony,  Anthony,  Zaehariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Joseph,  Robert. 
Robert  Braekett  was  born  in  Raymond,  Me.,  August  19,  1817; 
was  a  farmer  in  Caseo  and  Naples;  married  April  14,  1839,  Mary  G. 
Gammon,  born  August  31,  1818,  died  27  June.  1881,  daughter  of  John 
and  wife,  Sarah  Cook,  of  Raymond;  died  July  29,  1895.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  F..  b.  19  Oct.,  1839;  married  Elinor  Tenney.  Chil- 
dren. Gertrude,  b.  in  1885;  Frank,  b.  in  1887;   and  Eva,  b.  in  1890. 

L'.  Maria  F..  b.  4  Dec.,  1841;  mar.  G.  M.  Gay.  Children,  Alice 
F..  b.  3  May,  1866;  Ernest  L-,  b.  7  Sept.,  1870;  Richard  C.  b.  3 
Jan.,  1886. 

3.  Melvina  D.,  b.  29  Aug.,  1843;  mar.  George  W.  Bean.  Chil- 
dren, Florence  M..  b.  7  Nov.,  1865;  Hattie  C,  b.  14  Nov.,  1875, 
resides  in  Fynn.  Mass.;   Mary  C,  b.  in  July,  1877. 

4.  Isetta,  b.  12  June,  1845;  d.  10  May.  1846. 

5.  Mary  J.,  b.  15  May,  1847;  mar.  19  July.  1885,  F.  W.  Holden. 
b.  29  May.  1834,  son  of  Levi  and  wife,  Anna  Feach,  of  Casco;  home, 
in  Casco,  Me.,  where  Mr.  Holden  keeps  a  general  store.     No  issue. 

6.  Martha  A.,  b.  15  May,  1847;  mar.  R.  C.  Gay.  Children, 
Richard  E..  b.  25  Aug.,  1875;  Merritt  B.,  b.  1  Apr..  1880;  and 
Fvman  W.,  b.  20  Nov.,  1882. 

7.  Robert  E.,  b.  7  May,  1849;  mar.  Hattie  F.  Cook.  Children, 
Ruby  M.,  b.  27  Jan.,  1888;  and  Herman  C,  b.  28  Nov.,  1893. 

8.'  John  G..  b.  19  Nov.,  1851;  mar.  (1st)  Ellen  Edwards;  (2nd) 
Emma  Maxwell;  (3d)  Alice  Caldwell.  Children,  Edgar  F.,  b.  22 
Sept.,  1879;  Ethel  M.,  b.  23  Jan.,  1881;  Clarence  G.,  b.  11  May, 
1883;   Etta  C,  b.  7  Nov.,  1886;  Elmer  M.;   Raymond  J.;  and  Eula  F. 

9.  Anna  A.,  b.  20  June,  1854;   mar.  V.  R.  Edwards.     Issue: 
1st.     Florence  H.  Edwards,  b.  14  Mar.,  1886. 

10.  Thomas  F.,  b.  20  Apr.,  i860;   d.  1  July,  1867. 

FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From    Family    No.     14.      Descent:      Anthony.    Anthony,    Zaehariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Joseph.  Samuel. 
Samuel    Braekett    was    born    in    Fimington,    Me.,    in    1S27;    is 
deceased;   married  Sally  G.  Jackson,  born  in  1835;  lived  in  Casco  in 
i860.     Issue: 

1.  Elvira,  1).  in  1846. 

2.  George,  b.  in  1S57;  mar.  3  Nov.,  1873.  Minerva  C.  Clark,  who 
d.  26  Oct.,  1892;  is  a  farmer;  lived  in  Casco,  Me.,  and  Salem,  Mass.; 
now  resides  in  Otisfield,  Me.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1st.     Lester  Thomas,  b.  29  Oct.,  1879. 

2nd.     George  Allen,  b.  28  Oct.,  1881. 

3d.  Charles  M..  b.  2  Feb.,  1890.  These  three  children  were 
adopted  9  May,  1892,  by  Frederick  Wm.  Fee,  engineer,  and  wife, 
Forinda  M..  of  Salem,  and  their  names  were  changed  to  Fee.  Lor- 
inda  M.  Lee  was  appointed  their  guardian  Nov.  4,  1892. 

4th.     Leroy,  who  d.  3  Dec,  1891,  age  four  months. 

5th.      Mary  F,  who  is  dec. 

6th.     Bernard  C,  who  d.  in  1892,  age  three  years. 

7th.      Baby  boy,  who  d.  in  1892,  age  two  months. 


JOSHUA,    OF    PRESUMPSCOT  241 


FAMILY    NO.    30. 


From    Family    No.    15.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Robert,  Robert. 

Robert  Braekett  was  born  in  Limington,  Me.,  July  21,  1825;  was 
a  farmer  and  carpenter;  always  lived  in  Limington;  married  Eunice 
F.  Strout,  born  March  1,  1830,  died  February  14,  1898,  daughter  of 
Freeman  and  wife,  Dorcas  Thompson;  died  June  16,  1898.     Issue: 

1.  Georgia  Anna,  b.  6  May,  1851;  mar.  Gilman  S.  Ilsley;  home, 
in  Limington. 

2.  Caleb  Page,  b.  5  Mar..  1853. 

'■>.     Eliza  Strout,  b.  5  July,  1855;   mar.  Selden  M.  Guelaw;  home, 
in  North  Limington. 

4.  Harry  Herman,  b.  14  Aug.,  1856. 

5.  William  Wallace,  b.  14  Mar.,  1858;   mar.  Abbie  E.  Moody. 
I').     Albert  R..  b.  4  Nov.,  i860;  d.  in  Jan.,  1864. 

7.  Ellen  Florence,  b.  26  June,  1862;  mar.  Edwin  C.  Small;  home, 
in  Cornish.  Me. 

8.  Albert  Lee,  b.  27  Feb.,  1865;  mar.  Lizzie  Richardson;  home, 
in  Wcstbrook. 

9.  Cora  Lizzie,  b.  18  May,  1866;  mar.  24  Mar.,  1888,  Herbert  H. 
Purington,  b.  22  Apr.,  [865,  son  of  Stephen  L.  and  wife,  Eliza  J. 
Harmer;  is  a  physician.  Issne: 

1st.      Stephen  Robert,  b.  1  Oct.,  1892. 

10.  Blanch  Butler,  b.  2  Mar.,  1870;  mar.  28  June,  1893,  George 
K.  Files,  1).  17  Feb.,  1866,  son  of  J.  Wesley  and  wife,  Mary  S.  Whit- 
ney, of  Gorham,  Me.;  is  a  farmer  in  Gorham.      Issue: 

1st.      Earle  Braekett,  b.  iS  Feb.,  1897. 
2nd.      Philip  Freeman,  b.  21  Jan.,  1899. 

11.  John  Freeman,  1).  28  Jan.,  1872;  mar.  Sadie  Harmon;  home, 
in  Limington. 

12.  Alice  Maude,  b.  28  Apr.,  1873. 

FAMILY    NO.    31. 
From    Family    No.     15.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Robert,  James  F. 

James  F.  Braekett  was  born  in  Limington,  March  16,  1833,  where 
he  now  resides;  married  May  15,  1858,  Harriet  O.  Rounds,  born  Feb- 
ruary 10,  1838.  died  March  3,  1879,  daughter  of  Gerry  and  wife, 
Mary  Gage,  of  Buxton;  married  (2nd)  November  25,  1880,  Linda  W. 
F.  Foss,  daughter  of  Allen  W.  and  wife,  Harriet  N.  Frost,  of  Liming- 
ton. Mr.  Braekett  was  educated  at  the  Limington  academy  and  at 
the  New  York  Conference  seminary;  was  three  years  a  teacher  in 
Limington,  Hollis  and  Saco,  and  engaged  in  trade  in  Limington  for 
six  years.  For  three  years  he  lived  on  a  farm  in  Scarboro,  which  he 
sold;  then  returned  to  Limington.  He  was  town  treasurer  in  1883 
and  1884,  town  auditor  for  some  time,  and  town  agent  for  a  number 
of  years.  In  1872,  he  was  a  member  of  the  state  legislature;  has 
served  as  county  commissioner  three  years,  and  was  a  member  of  the 
governor's  council  from  1889  to  1892  inclusive.  In  the  fall  of  1894, 
he  was  again  elected  to  the  state  legislature.     Issue: 

1.  Anson  L.,  b.  2^  July,  1859.     See  family  41. 

2.  Robert  G.,  b.  11  Nov..  1862. 


248  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

3.  Frank  A.,  b.  13  May,  1864;  foreman  of  a  shoe  factory  in 
Bridgewater,  Mass.;  has  lived  in  North  Grafton  and  Whitman,  Mass.; 
mar.  16  June,  1894,  Minnie  Tribon,  b.  25  Apr.,  1861,  dau.  of  William 
and  wife,  Jennett  Torrey,  of  Hanover,  Mass. 

4.  Mary  (>.,  b.  26  Dee.,  1868. 

5.  George  M.,  b.  26  Dec.,  1874;  town  clerk  of  Limington  in   1906. 

6.  Harriet  E.,  b.  22  Nov.,  1882. 

7.  Guy  A.,  b.  20  July,  1884. 

8.  Roy  F.,  b.  26  July,  1886. 

FAMILY    NO.    32. 

From    Family    No.    15.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Robert,  Charles  A. 

Charles  A.  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington,  Me.,  September  10, 
1836;  is  a  farmer;  married  August  20,  1857,  Frances  W.  Libby,  born 
March  28,  1840,  daughter  of  David  S.  and  wife,  Martha  S.  Small; 
home,  in  Limington.     Issue: 

1.  Edward  E.,  b.  4  Jan.,  1863;  mar.  15  Aug.,  1888,  Lizzie  C. 
Faulkner,  b.  8  Feb.,  1868;  home,  in  Gorham.     Issue: 

1st.     Louisa  S.,  b.  2  Aug.,  1889. 

2nd.     Arthur  F.,  b.  28  Jan.,  1893. 

FAMILY    NO.    33. 

From    Family    No.    15.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Robert,  Frederic. 

Frederic  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington,  June  20,  1838;  is  a 
farmer;  married  June  9,  1863,  Clara  Moody,  born  September  6,  1845, 
daughter  of  Walter  H.  and  wife,  Margaret  Bradeen,  of  Limington; 
home,  in  Limington.     Issue: 

1.  Erne  E.,  b.  11  Aug.,  1864;  mar.  19  Apr.,  1897,  Charles  Small; 
home,  in  Limington.     Issue: 

1st.     Florence  E.,  b.  6  July,  1898. 

2.  Eunice  F.,  b.  18  Apr.,  1866;  d.  12  Sept.,  1889. 

3.  Gertrude  C,  b.  12  Sept.,  1876. 

4.  Ruth  M.,  b.  17  Mar.,  1884. 

FAMILY    NO.    34. 

From    Family    No.    16.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Joshua,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born  November  9,  1828;  married  January 
6,  1850,  Adelia  B.  Redlon,  daughter  of  John  B.  and  wife,  Lucy  Smith, 
of  Hollis;  home,  in  Portland.     Issue: 

1.  Atwood  T.,  b.  17  Oct.,  1850;  mar.  Emma  Scamman.  Children 
are  Lillian;  Ethel;   Leroy;   Isabel;   Clayton;   Clifton. 

2.  John  B.,  b.  in  Apr.,  1855;  is  a  tailor. 

3.  Charles  E.,  b.  28  Nov.,  1858;  mar.  Nellie  Frost;  is  a  jeweler; 
home,  in  Knightville,  Me.;  has  dau.  Hattie. 

4.  Mary  A.,  b.  21  Sept.,  1865. 


JOSHUA,     OF     PRESUMPSCOT  249 

FAMILY    NO.    35. 

From    Family    No.    17.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Samuel,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington,  Me.,  August  1,  1828; 
married  November  17,  1848,  Elizabeth  Ljbby,  born  January  26,  1823, 
died  in  1869,  daughter  of  Captain  Cyrus  (born  October  15,  1778,  died 
August  18,  1838,  married  December  23,  1800,  Lois  Eibby.)  Married 
(2nd)  E.  M.  Fick,  born  June  8,  1847,  daughter  of  John  C.  and  wife, 
Mary  Ann  Allen,  of  Port  Huron,  Mich.  He  died  March  25,  1905; 
was  a  magnetic  healer  of  the  Weltmer  school;  resided  in  Biddeford, 
Me.,  Boston,  Janesville,  Wis.,  East  Saginaw,  Mich.,  Jefferson,  la., 
in  the  order  named;  served  in  company  I,  32d  Wisconsin  volunteer 
infantry  from  August  9,  1862,  to  February  7,  1863.     Issue: 

1.  Benjamin  F.,  b.  in  1857;  mar.  Martha  Tinerdale;  home,  in 
Jefferson,  la.     Issue: 

1st.     Frances  Hazel,  b.  23  Mar.,  1894. 

2nd.     Gussie  Ann,  b.  3  Apr.,  1899. 

3d.      Zebulon  Franklin,  b.  12  July,  1900. 

2.  Alice  Abby,  mar.  19  Oct.,  1880,  George  Batchelder  Eibby, 
son  of  Capt.  Thomas  E.  Libby  and  wife,  Mary  E.  Batchelder. 

3.  Essa  Pearl,  b.  4  Aug.,  1875;  mar.  11  Dec,  1895,  Byron  A. 
Baker  of  Port  Huron,  Mich.,  traveling  salesman,  b.  9  Apr.,  1870,  son 
of  Schuvler  and  wife,  Marv  Peake.     No  issue. 


FAMILY  NO.  36. 

From    Family    No.     17.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshna,  Samuel,  John  H. 

John  H.  Brackett  was  born  August  4,  1833,  in  Eimingtou,  Me.; 
is  a  carpenter  in  Biddeford;  formerly  lived  in  Ea  Crosse,  Wis.;  enlisted 
October  9,  1861,  in  company  K.  13th  Maine  volunteer  infantry  and 
discharged  August  10,  1865;  captured  and  confined  in  camp  Tyler, 
Texas;  married  (1st),  May  27,  1853,  Anna  Flood;  married  (2nd) 
Nellie  Morrill,  born  in  1838,  daughter  of  Aaron  and  wife,  Julia  Ann. 
Issue: 

1.  Orlando,  b.  16  Apr.,  1857.     See  family  42. 

2.  Martha  Washington,  b.  in  Biddeford,  28  Aug.,  i860;  mar.  15 
Mar.,  1878,  Benjamin  W.  Merrill,  b.  in  Hollis,  Me.,  3  Nov.,  1855, 
son  of  Joseph  and  wife,  SararrC.  Jose,  of  Hollis,  later  of  Saco,  Me.;  is 
a  stationary  engineer;  home,  in  Saco,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.  Iueze  Mabel,  b.  8  Oct.,  1879;  mar.  28  Aug.,  1901,  Roscoe 
Day  Fairfield;  home  in  Biddeford,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Esther  Ramona,  b.  10  Sept.,  1902. 

II.  Sarah  Hutchins,  b.  3  Feb.,  1904. 

2nd.     Frederick  William,  b.  22  Jan.,  1883;   d.  21  July,  1883. 
3d.     Grace  Esther,  b.  19  Mar.,  1884. 
4th.     Guy  Henry,  b.  20  July,  1886. 
5th.      Faith  Gladys,  b.  19  Oct.,  1891. 


250  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

6th.     Hampton  Ethelard,  b.  30  Apr.,  1893. 
7th.     John  Fremont  Brackett,  b.  18  Mar.,  1900. 

3.  Ella.  b.  1  Jan.,  1862. 

4.  Miles  Edwin,  b.  26  Dee.,  1870;  mar.  Lizzie  Roberts;  home,  in 
Biddeford.     Issue: 

1st.     Ralph  Edwin,  b.  17  Nov.,  1890. 
2nd.     Florence  May,  b.  21  June,  1892. 

5.  Samuel  Eugene,  b.  15  Apr.,  1873;  mar.  Sarah  Burg;  home,  in 
Lowell.      Issue: 

1st.     Elmer  Eugene,  b.  13  Oct.,  1896. 

6.  Henry  Albert,  b.  19  Aug.,  1875. 

7.  Ruth  Anna,  b.  28  Nov.,  1878,  in  Biddeford,  Me.;  mar.  22  Dee., 
1896,  Harry  Gordon,  b.  8  July,  1877,  son  of  Mark  and  wife,  Lydia 
Proctor,  of  Biddeford;  is  a  stationary  engineer;  home,  in  Biddeford. 
Issue: 

1st.     H.  Maurice,  b.  15  Apr.,  1898. 
2nd.     Marion  R.,  b.  16  May,  1899. 

8.  Nellie  May,  b.  4  Dec,  1881,  in  Biddeford;  mar.  22  June,  1904, 
John  Haley,  b.  16  Oct.,  1863,  son  of  Noah  and  wife,  Eliza  Poole, 
of  Biddeford;  is  a  dealer  in  lobsters;   home,  in  Biddeford. 

FAMILY    NO.    37. 

From    Family    No.     17.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Samuel,  James  M. 

.  James  M.  Brackett  was  born  in  Limington,  Me.,  April  18,  1835; 
married  March  7,  1869,  Emma  Dickenson,  died  March  7,  1875,  age 
thirty-two  years,  daughter  of  William  and  wife,  Sarah;  married  (2nd) 
June  25,  1876,  Eunice  J.  Doughty,  daughter  of  Mark  and  wife,  Phcebe 
Styles;  served  in  1st  Wis.  battery,  light  artillery,  from  January  3, 
1863,  to  July  18,  1865;  lived  in  Buxton,  Biddeford,  Me.,  Lawrence, 
Lowell,  Mass.,  Janesville  and  La  Crosse,  Wis.,  Chicago,  and  Wash- 
ington, D.  C;  was  a  carpenter,  and  for  several  years  was  an  employee 
in  the  Pension  Bureau;  died  in  1902.     Issue: 

1.  Eva,  b.  15  Oct.,  1877;  mar.  William  Griffin;  d.  27  Nov.,  1898. 
Issue: 

1st.     William  Ernest,  b.  6  Sept.,  1898. 

2.  Harry  U.,  b.  30  Jan.,  1879. 

FAMILY    NO.    38. 

From    Family    No.    17.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony.    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Samuel,  Charles  A. 

Charles  A.   Brackett  was  born  in   Limington,   in    1837;  married 
;  lives  in  Cedar  city,  Mo.;  is  a  commission  merchant.     Issue: 

1.  Fred,  b.  in  1863,  in  Iowa;  mar.  in  1898,  Ollie  Holt,  b.  in  1880, 
dau.  of  William  B.  and  wife,  Virginia  Norvell,  of  New  Frankfort,  Mo.; 
is  a  barber;  home  in  Cedar  city,  Mo.     Issue: 

1st.     Marie,  b.  in  1899. 

2.  Frank,  mar.  Katie  Wolf;  home,  in  Troy,  Mo. 

3.  Jennie,  mar.  W.  A.  Scott;  home,  in  Roodhouse,  111. 

4.  Annie,  mar.  Joe  Pickens;  home,   in  Brunswick,   Mo.;   had  Joe. 

5.  Clarence,  not  married. 


JOSHUA,    OF    PRESUMPSCOT  251 

FAMILY    NO.    39. 

From    Family    No.    17.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Samuel,  Nelson. 

Nelson  Brackett  was  born  June    19,    1840;   married   August  15, 

1859,   Ellen ,   daughter  of  Francis ,   and  wife,  Mary ,  of 

Fond  du  Eac,  Wis.,  born  September  11,  1842,  died  February  16,  1867; 
is  a  coal  dealer;   home,  in  Toledo,  Ohio.     Issue: 

1.  Adella,  b.  14  July,  1861;   mar.  22  June,  1889,  August  Eabidda; 
home,  in  Toledo. 

2.  William  H.,  b.  4  Dec,  1863.     See  family  43. 

3.  Ellen,  b.  in  March,  1865. 

4.  Evaline,  b.  3  May,  1866. 


XI  NTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    40. 

From    Family    No.    27.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Joseph,  Joshua,  Jefferson  B. 

Jefferson  B.  Brackett  was  born  in  Casco  (then  Raymond),  March 
6,  1832;  lived  in  Casco  until  he  was  seventeen  years  old  when  he  com- 
menced teaching  school;  this  occupation  he  followed  for  thirty  years 
in  Maine,  Massachusetts,  and  Rhode  Island;  later  years  was  in  life 
insurance  business;  is  deceased;  married  February  21,  1857,  Sarah  E. 
Hayes,  born  November  18,  1837,  daughter  of  Wentworth  and  wife, 
Olive  Kimball,  of  Chelsea,  Mass.;  resided  in  Portland.     Issue: 

1.  Joshua  F.,  b.  15  Aug.,  1858;  mar.  23  Mar.  1881,  Abbie  E. 
Rand,  who  d.  29  Aug.,  1897,  dau.  of  James  Rand.     Issue: 

1st.     May  Belle,  b.  26  May,  1887. 

2.  Elton  J.,  b.  13  Nov.,  1864;  mar.  25  Feb.,  1888,  Efhe  A. 
McEean,  who  d.  6  Aug.,  1899;  she  was  a  dau.  of  Henry  McEean 
and  wile,  Minnie  Soper,  of  Chesterville,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Effie  A.,  b.  1  Aug.,  1891. 

FAMILY    NO.    41. 

From    Family    No.    31.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Robert,  James  F.,  Anson  E. 

Auson  Eeslie  Brackett  was  born  in  Eimington,  Me.,  July  23, 
1859;  married  April  17,  1881,  Etta  C.  Wentworth,  born  December  12, 
1863,  in  Eimington,  daughter  of  Ivory  and  wife,  Asenath  M.  B.  Carll, 
of  Limington;  is  a  blacksmith;  has  lived  in  East  Sebago  and  Sebago 
Eake;  home,  in  Eimington.     Issue: 

1.  Ivory  Franklin,  b.  8  Oct.,  1882;  d.  31  Dec,  1887. 

2.  Olive  H.,  b.  30  Sept.,  1883. 

3.  Inez  Maria,  b.  5  Jan.,  1885;  d.  2  Feb.,  1885. 


252  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    42. 

From    Family    No.    36.     Descent:     Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua.  Joshua,  Samuel,  John  H.,  Orlando  M. 

Orlando  Milton  Braekett  was  born  April  16,  1857,  in  Chicago, 
Illinois;  married  December  25,  1884,  Anna  M.  Trine,  born  June  7, 
1863,  daughter  of  Aaron  L.  and  wife,  Sally  Rumple,  of  Hamilton,  Ohio; 
is  a  carpenter;  for  several  years  he  resided  and  worked  at  his  trade  in 
Norwalk,  Ohio,  where  he  is  well  and  favorably  known;  during  the 
summer  of  1905,  he  removed  to  Biddeford,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Flsie,  b.  9  Oct.,  1885. 

2.  Earl,  b.  27  Aug.,  1887. 

3.  Elmer,  b.  14  Nov.,  1889. 

4.  Ernest,  b.  23  Mar.,  1894. 

5.  Eugene,  b.  12  Feb.,  1896. 

6.  Evert,  b.  16  Nov.,  1898. 

FAMILY    NO.    43. 

From    Family    No.    39.      Descent:      Anthony,    Anthony,    Zachariah, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Samuel,  Nelson,  William  H. 

William  H.  Braekett  was  born  December  4,  1863;  married  May 
4,  1884,  Annie  Donahue;  home,  in  Toledo,  Ohio.     Issue: 

1.  William  Nelson,  b.  23  Feb.,  1885. 

2.  Earl  Lewis,  b.  14  Feb.,  1887. 

3.  Evelina,  b.  28  Jan.,  1889. 

4.  Robert  Clarence,  b.  27  Nov.,  1890. 

5.  Roy  Leo,  b.  25  Aug.,  1893. 

6.  Annie  May,  b.  1  Jan.,  1896. 

7.  Ellen  Evangeline,  b.  in  Feb.,  1898. 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  253 


DIVISION    NO.    8. 


JOHN    BRACKETT    OF    BERWICK    AND    HIS 
DESCENDANTS. 


SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY     NO.     1. 

From  Chapter  VIII.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John. 

John  Braekett  was  born  June  29,  1720,  baptized  January  21, 
1728;  died  February  18,  1814.  He  perhaps  served  in  King  George's 
war,  though  it  is  not  known  in  what  organization  or  in  what  capacity 
he  served.  He  was  a  person  of  social  distinction  in  the  locality  where 
he  resided.  Was  a  farmer;  always  lived  in  Berwick.  The  land 
which  he  cleared  and  on  which  he  dwelt  and  raised  his  family  is 
owned  by  one  of  his  descendants  in  the  male  line. 

He  married  July  4,  1745,  Miriam  Thompson,  born  January  26, 
1723,  baptized  March  23,  1727,  died  December  2,  1810,  w7as  daughter 
of  Miles;  he  was  born  February  15,  1689,  married  February  14,  1713, 
Abigail  Gowen,  was  son  of  Bartholomew  Thompson;  he  was  living  in 
Berwick  in  1723,  mentioned  as  deceased  in  1748,  was  son  of  Miles;  he 
was  in  Boston  in  May,  1643,  in  South  Berwick  in  1656,  married  Ann 
(  horn  in  1635,  living  in  1  7 1 7 ) ,  was  living  in  1702. 

Abigail  Gowen  who  married  Miles  Thompson,  was  born  April  12, 
168-,  was  daughter  of  Nicholas;  he  was  born  in  1668,  deputy  to  the 
general  court  in  1709,  married  Abigail  Hodsdon,  died  in  1742,  wras 
son  of  William;  he  was  in  Kittery  in  1666,  married  Elizabeth  Frost, 
died  April  2,  1686. 

Abigail  Hodsdon  who  married  Nicholas  Gowen,  was  daughter  of 
Benoni;  he  was  of  Berwick,  baptized  December  5,  1647,  married 
Abigail  Curtis,  probably  was  son  of  Nicholas;  he  was  in  Hingham, 
Mass.,  in  1635,  in  Watertown,  Mass..  in  1650,  in  Kittery,  Me.,  in 
1655,  later  lived  near  Birchpoint  brook,  South  Berwick,  perhaps  was 
killed  by  the  Indians  in  an  attack  on  Wells  in  1704,  wife  was  Esther 
Wines. 

Abigail  Curtis  who  married  Benoni  Hodsdon  was  daughter  of 
Thomas;  he  lived  in  York,  Me.,  will  proved  in  1706;  wife's  name 
was  Elizabeth. 

Elizabeth  Frost  who  married  May  14,  1667,  William  Gowen,  was 
born  in  May,  1640,  living  in  1733,  was  daughter  of  Nicholas  Frost, 
the  immigrant.     Issue: 

1.  John,  b.  19  Sept.,  1746;  bapt.  23  Aug.,  1747;  mar.  29  Nov., 
1779,  Eunice  Wentworth;  d.  8  Feb.,  1830;  farmer,  always  lived  in 
Berwick;  served  several  terms  of  enlistments  as  a  soldier  in  the  Conti- 
nental army;  his  wife  died  in  early  life.  The  censuses  show  that  he 
lived  alone  for  many  years.     No  issue. 

2.  James,  b.  12  Mar.,  1748.     See  family  2. 

3.  Daniel,  b.  2  Mar.,  1750.     See  family  3. 


254  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

4.  Miles,  b.  6  May,  1752.      See  family  4. 

5.  Nathan,  b.  26  Aug.,  1754.     See  family  5. 

6.  Moses,  b.  26  Mar.,  1756.     See  family  6. 

7.  Miriam,  b.  23  May,  1758;  mar.  26  Feb.,  1778,  Morrell  Hobbs 
of  Berwick,  b.  23  Nov.,  1753;  d.  20  Oct.,  1826;  lived  in  Harrison, 
Me.;  she  d.  18  Apr.,  1836.  Issue:  eleven  children,  viz.,  Reuben; 
Abigail;  Henry;  Joseph  L.;  Miriam  B.;  Polly;  Susan;  Morrell,  Jr.; 
Charlotte;  John;  and  Sally.  Abigail  mar.  Benjamin  Sanborn;  their 
daughter  Almira  Sanborn  mar.  Charles  R.  Stubbs  of  Portland  and 
had  issue: 

1st.     Albert  R.,  b.    15  May,    1841;  unmar.;  home,   in  Portland; 
librarian  of  the  Maine  Genealogical  society. 
2nd.     Mary  A.,  b.  1  June,  1843;   unmar. 
3d.     Francis  J.,  b.  17  Oct.,  1852;  mar.  Elizabeth  Courteney. 

8.  Abigail,  b.  27  Oct.,  1761;  mar.  7  Aug.,  1788,  Jacob  Remick, 
son  of  Nathaniel  and  wife,  Jane  Libby. 

9.  Mary.  b.  17  Mar.,  1764;   never  mar. 

10.  Anna,  b.  4  May,  1766;  never  mar.;   d.  20  Jan.,  1826. 

11.  Susannah,  b.  5  May,  1768,  mar.  Moses  Smith  of  Berwick;  d. 
1  Oct.,  1854. 

SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.  1.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  James. 
James  Brackett  was  born  March  12.  1748,  in  Berwick;  baptized 
September  8,  1749;  some  records  give  as  date  of  his  birth  March  17, 
1748.  Was  commonly  called  James,  Jr.,  to  distinguish  him  from  his 
uncle,  Deacon  James  Brackett  who,  until  about  1794,  resided  in  Ber- 
wick. James,  Jr.,  early  in  life  became  prominent  in  public  town  mat- 
ters, held  several  town  offices;  was  selectman  in  years  1795,  1796,  i798> 
1799,  1800,  1 801,  1802,  1803,  and  1804.  He  settled  in  North  Ber- 
wick where  he  acquired  a  good  estate;  the  farm  which  he  cleared  and 
owned,  is  now  the  property  of  one  of  his  descendants,  David  H. 
Brackett;  died  March  27,  1831.  Married  December  23,  1773,  Anna 
Stillings,  born  May  4,  1754.  died  January  20,  1826.     Issue: 

1.  John,  b.  18  Aug.,  1774.      See  family  7. 

2.  James,  b.  18  June,  1777.     See  family  8. 

3.  Abigail,  b.  2  Nov.,  1779;   mar.  in  1803,  Chadbourne  Pray;   d. 
9  Oct.,  1830. 

4.  Isaac,  b.  7  Aug.,  1782.     See  family  9. 

5.  Anna,  b.  1  Feb.,  1785;  mar.  6  Mar.,  1807,  Andrew  Neal,  Jr.,  of 
York. 

6.  Devi,  b.  16  July.  1787.      See  family  10. 

7.  Miriam,  b.  31  December,    1789;  mar.  2  Aug.,  1809,  John  Hall, 
Jr.,  b.  14  July,  1786,   d.  14  Dec,  1858;  she  d.  29  Oct.,  1853.     Issue: 

1st.     Mary,  b.  2  Dec,  1810;  d.  15  Mar.,  1817. 
2nd.     Silas,  b.  15  June,  1812;  d.  13  Aug.,  1812. 

3d.     Silas,  b.    13  Sept.,    1815;  married  Hannah ;  d.    1  July, 

1878.     Issue: 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  255 

I.  John,  is  dec.  II.  Abbie,  is  dec,  mar.  Thomas  Abbott, 
had  Charles;  Fannie,  is  dee.;  Fred;  Esther;  Edward,  is  dee.;  Louise, 
is  dec.  III.  Sarah  Ann,  mar.  Albert  Estes;  had  Frank  of  North 
Berwick.  IV.  Emma,  mar.  John  Chadbourne;  had  Emma.  V. 
Louise,  mar.  20  Jan.,  1876,  Charles  E.  Fall;  had  Lion  L-,  b.  24  Nov., 
1876;  Bertha  M.,  b.  28  Mar.,  1879  (mar.  15  June,  1900,  Benj.  F. 
Thompson,  had  Mildred  Thompson,  b.  15  Mar.,  1901,  and  Edna  B. 
Thompson,  b.  24  Oct.,  1902);  Ethel  L.  Fall,  b.  12  Mar.,  1888;  Emma 
H.  Fall,  b.  16  Apr.,  1891;  all  reside  in  Lebanon,  Me.  VI.  Lizzie, 
mar.  Josiah  Morrell.  No  issue;  resides  in  North  Berwick.  VII. 
John  P.,  is  dec. 

4th.  Brackett,  b.  13  Sept.,  1815;  d.  25  Apr.,  1900;  mar.  27 
Mar.,  1842,  Abigail  Hall;  upon  her  dec.  he  mar.  (2nd)  27  Nov.,  1859, 
Mary  A.  Emery.  Issue,  all  who  are  living,  reside  in  North  Berwick: 
I.  Mary  Ann,  b.  1  Jan.,  1844;  d.  2  Aug.,  1893;  mar.  James 
Joynes;  had  Abbie  E.  Joynes,  b.  n  May,  1878.  II.  Abbie  M.,  b.  23 
Apr.,  1849;  mar.  24  June,  1903,  Hosea  S.  Merrifield.  III.  John 
Brackett,  b.  3  Jan..  1851.  IV.  Elmer  E.,  b.  25  Mar.,  1861;  d.  8 
Feb.,  1886.  V.  Davis  Williams,  b.  17  Mar.,  1865.  VI.  Frank 
Emery,  b.   is  Oct..   1872. 

5th.  Stacy,  b.  8  Dec.  18 19;  mar.  30  Oct.,  i860,  Abbie  Lewis 
Crosby,  who  d.  16  Nov.,  1899.  Issue:  I.  Stacy  Lewis,  b.  4  Oct., 
[861;  mar.  12  Now.  [890,  Myra  Johnson  Tupper;  resides  in  Boston, 
Mass.:  had  Ralph  Stacy,  b.  15  Mar.,  1892;  Marion,  b.  22  Mar.,  1894, 
(1.  in  May,  1895;  Howard  Brackett.  b.  16  Feb.,  1897.  II.  Edith 
Marion,  b.  8  June,  1864.  III.  Frank  Crosby,  b.  18  Mar.,  1869;  d.  1 
June  [876.  IV.  Harry  Stanley,  b.  27  June,  1873;  d.  13  Jan.,  1875. 
V.    Maria  Curtis,  b.  2^  July,   [876,  d.  24  Jan.,  1895. 

6th.  John,  b.  2  Oct.,  1S22  ;  d.  17  July,  1902;  mar.  28  May,  1846, 
Joanna  H.  Fernald,  who  d.  8  Mar.,  1893.  Issue:  I.  Olive  Ann,  b. 
18  May,  1847:  mar.  James  L.  Woodsom;  resides  in  North  Berwick: 
had  George  Ashley.  II.  George  Henry,  b.  2  Mar.,  1849;  mar.  8 
June  1880,  Kate  L.  Cummock;  resides  in  Berwick;  had  Walter 
Cummock,  b.  5  May  1881;  George  Harold,  b.  8  Mar.,  1885,  d.  29 
Apr.,  1904:  twin  son's,  b.  and  d.  5  July,  1883;  Annie  A.,  b.  19  Aug., 
1886:  Marv,  b.  4  Julv,  1888.  III.  Miriam,  b.  11  Apr.,  1851;  mar.  24 
Oct.,  1876^  Oilman  N.  Deering;  reside  in  Saco,  Me.;  children,  Ethel 
M.,  b.  Nov..  1879;  Joanna  F.,  b.  12  Aug.,  1881;  William  H.,  b.  21 
Julv,  1886.  IV.  Frances  Esther,  b.  9  July,  1855.  V.  Joanna  Hurd, 
b.  13  Dec,  1857;  mar.  28  May,  1887,  James  O.  McCorison;  resides  in 
North  Berwick;  had  Edith  M.,  b.  17  Jan.,  1891,  d.  30  Aug.,  1891; 
John  H.,  b.  23  Julv,  1892;  James  L..  b.  25  Jan.,  1894,  d.  8  Feb., 
1894:  James  6.  b.  15  May,  1895.  VI.  Ella  Josephine,  b.  1  Dec, 
i860;  mar.  11  June,  1887,  Nathaniel  S.  Austin,  resides  in  North  Ber- 
wick: had  Elizabeth.  VII.  John,  b.  21  Sept.,  1864.  VIII.  Stacy, 
b.  26  Mar.  1867. 

7th.  Sarah  Ann,  b.  9  Jan.,  1826;  mar.  Wilson  T.  Fall;  d.  1 
Nov.,  1853.  Issue:  I.  Humphrey  W.,  b.  28  Jan.,  1848;  mar.  Jane 
B.  Malcolm;  resides  in  Chicago;  had  Bertha;  d.  25  Mar.,  1878; 
Marv,  d.  7  Apr.,  1879:  Miriam,  d.  16  Apr.,  1882;  Humphrey  W.,  b. 
7  Apr.,  1883;  Robert,  b.  29  June,  1885,  d.  22  Apr.,  1903;  Sarah  A., 
d.  26  Jan.,L  1889;  Jeannette,  d.  9  Aug.,  1891;  twins  Jeannette  and 
Frances,  b.  7  Oct.,  1893.  II.  John  Hall  Fall,  b.  11  Dec,  1852;  d. 
18  Feb.,  1898. 


256  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

8th.  Mary  Esther,  b.  21  July,  1829;  mar.  24  July,  1857,  S.  A. 
Hubbard;  she  d.  8  Apr.,  1867.  Issue:  I.  Charles  A.,  b.  2  May,  1859; 
mar.  29  Dec.,  1888,  Lizzie  E.  Browu;  resides  in  North  Berwick;  had 
Edith  M.,  b.  19  June,  1890;  C.  Roscoe,  b.  2  June,  1891;  Doris  A.,  b. 
13  July,  1904.  II.  Miriam,  b.  27  Aug.,  1862;  d.  30  Mar.,  1886. 
III.  John  V.,  b.  12  Sept.,  1863;  d.  23  Jan.,  1896;  mar.  27  Oct. ,.1890, 
Josie  L.  Armstrong.  IV.  Mary  Esther,  b.  25  Nov.,  1866;  mar.  in 
July,  1887,  George  A.  Brown. 

9th.     Orin,  b.  30  Oct.,  1831;  d.  29  Sept.,  1853. 

8.  Molly,  b.  24  Apr.,  1791;  d.  in  Nov.,  1806. 

9.  Ebenezer,  b.  17  Aug.,  1793.     See  family  11. 

10.  Susannah,  b.  18  Jan.,  1796;  mar.  1  Dec,  1814,  Silas  Heard.  Jr.; 
who  d.  1  Dec,  1857,  age,  70  years;  she  d.  2  Aug.,  i860.     Issue: 

1st.     James  B.,  d.  2  June,  1858. 
2nd.      Mary,  d.  18  Jan.,  1891. 
3d.     Dorcas,  d.  3  Jan.,  1892. 
4th.     Susan,  b.  15  Aug.,  1822. 
5th.     Ann,  d.  27  Mar.,  1895. 

FAMILY    NO.   3. 

From  Family  No.  1.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Daniel. 
Daniel  Brackett  was  born  March  2,  1750,  in  Berwick;  baptized 
April  11,  1750;  was  a  member  of  the  Second  church,  from  which  he 
and  his  wife  withdrew  August  23,  1795,  to  join  the  church  in  Shap- 
leigh,  Me.  At  the  time  he  had  been  a  resident  of  Shapleigh  for  sev- 
eral years;  the  census  of  1790  shows  him  living  there;  he  married  in 
Berwick  Nov.  3,  1774,  Mary  Andrews;  married  (2nd)  Eydia  Merrow; 
was  a  school  teacher;  had  a  withered  arm;  continued  to  live  in 
Shapleigh  until  his  death,  which  occurred  between  1800  and  18 10. 
The  part  of  the  town  where  he  lived  is  now  Acton.  Issue  by  first  wife, 
not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Mary  Ann,  mar.  Pinkham;   no  issue. 

2.  Susan,  never  mar. 

3.  Polly. 

4.  Jemima,   mar.  Stillings;  had  Elizabeth  who  mar.  Stillings;  and 
Samuel,   who  for  many  years  was  a  builder  and  contractor  in  Bos- 
ton;   he  had   children,    Samuel;    Augusta;     Oscar;     Daniel;     Albert; 
Dora. 

5.  Benjamin,  who  died  young  and  unmar. 
Issue  by  second  wife: 

6.  Ivory,  b.  25  Nov.,  1788.     See  family  12. 

7.  Betsey,  who  mar.  Jacob  Crockett;  had  a  large  family,  of  whom 
John  Crockett  lives  at  New  Durham,  N.  H. 

8.  Isaac,    mar.  Frances  Dow;    she  survived  him  and  d.  in    1882; 
had  one  child,  which  d.  in  infancy. 

9.  Eucinda,  mar.  Ebenezer  Bickford.     Issue: 
1st.     Charles,  who  died  in  the  civil  war. 
2d.     Jackson,  inmate  of  a  soldier's  home. 

3d.  Elizabeth,  mar.  Willard  Morse,  had  one  child  only,  a  girl; 
she  was  adopted  by  a  man  and  his  wife  with  the  intention  that  the 
child  never  should  learn  that  she  was  not  their  offspring. 


JOHN,     OF    BERWICK  257 

FAMILY    NO.   4. 

From  Family  No.  i.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Miles. 

Miles  Braekett  was  born  May  6,  1752;  baptized  November  10, 
1752;  was  a  farmer;  always  lived  in  Berwick;  married  January  26, 
1775,  Lydia  Keay,  born  August  7,  1754,  died  August  22,  1831;  he 
died  March    4,  1827.      Issue: 

1.  Miriam,  b.  12  Apr.,  1776;  d.  in  Oct.,  1776. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  16  Dec,  1777.     See  family  13. 

3.  Miles,  Jr.,  b.  26  Sept.,  1780.     See  family  14. 

4.  Hannah,  b.  19  Dec,  1783;  mar.  9  Dec,  1802,  Joseph  Heard, 
b.  2  Nov.,  1779,  d.  5  Feb.,  1850,  son  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Sarah  Went- 
worth.      Children,  Sarah;   Lydia;   Miles;  Paul;  Jane;  and  John. 

5.  John,  b.  28  Jan.,  1785.     See  family  15. 

6.  Jacob,  b.  15  Mar.,  1787;  d.  in  June,  1789. 

7.  Susannah,  b.  29  Nov.,  1790;  mar.  2  Aug.,  1810,  William 
Chadbourne;  she  d.  10  Oct.,  1876.     Issue: 

1st.  Melinda,  b.  23  May,  181 1.  2nd.  Isaiah,  b.  10  Feb.,  1813. 
.3d.  Francis,  b.  19  Mar.,  1815.  4th.  Olive,  b.  29  Oct.,  1817.  5th. 
John,  b.  20  Oct.,  1820.  6th .  Hannah  J.,  b.  6  Oct.,  1822.  7th. 
Lydia,  b.  26  Aug.,  1824.     8th.   Lydia  B.,  b.  26  Aug.,  1827. 

8.  David,  b.  18  July.  1793.     See  family  16. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Nathan. 

Nathan  Braekett  was  born  in  Berwick,  August  26,  1754.  Served 
as  a  private  in  Captain  Fbenezer  Sullivan's  company,  Colonel  James 
Scammon's  regiment;  enlisted  July  17,  1775;  name  on  muster  roll 
dated  August  8,  1775;  service,  fifteen  days.  Received  order  for 
bounty  coat  or  its  equivalent  in  money,  dated  Cambridge,  December 
20,  1775.  Served  in  Captain  Samuel  Grant's  company,  Colonel 
Storer's  regiment;  enlisted  August  14,  1777;  discharged  November  30, 
1777,  at  Queman's  heights;  served  four  months  and  three  days  with 
Northern  army.  Married  August  6,  1778,  Maty  Hurd,  born  1757, 
daughter  of  Benjamin  (son  of  J"ames  and  wife  Deborah,  son  of  Benja- 
min, son  of  John)  born  August  2,  1785,  in  Dover,  N.  H.,  and  wife, 
Mary  Wiley,  daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Sarah,  of  Durham,  N.  H. 
Was  a  farmer;  moved  from  Berwick  to  Shapleigh;  was  in  the  latter 
town  as  early  as  1790.     He  died  Feb.  17,  1837.     Issue: 

1.  Mariam,  b.  5  Feb.,  1779;  d.  unmar.,  in  June,  1852. 

2.  Benjamin,  b.  in  1780;  never  mar.;  will  dated  8  Oct.,  1844;  d. 
21  Aug.,  1848. 

3.  Mary,  mar.  in  1813,  John  Gower. 

4.  Nathan,  b.  in  1784.     See  family  17. 

5.  John,  b.  11  Apr.,  1787.     See  family  18. 

6.  James  Hurd,  b.  in  1790.     See  family  19. 

7.  Deborah,  mar.  13  Jan.,  1809,  Benjamin  Dore;  d.  26  Nov.,  1865. 

8.  Phebe,  b.  30  Jan.,  1795;  mar.  John  Lary;  d.  2  Nov.,  1873. 

9.  Abigail,  b.  12  June,  1797;  mar.  Moses  Braekett;  d.  7  Sept., 
1879.     Issue  (see  fam.  20). 


258  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From  Family  No.  i.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Moses. 

Moses  Brackett  was  born  March  26,  1756,  in  Berwick;  married 
October  16,  1788,  Sarah  Hurd,  daughter  of  Benjamin  (son  of  James 
and  wife,  Deborah,  son  of  Benjamin,  son  of  John)  and  wife,  Mary, 
daughter  of  Samuel  Willey  and  wife,  Sarah,  of  Durham,  N.  H. 
Moses  married  the  second  time;  wife's  name,  unknown;  was  a  farmer; 
settled  in  Clinton,  Kennebec  county,  Me.;  upon  his  second  marriage, 
he  moved  to  Gardiner,  Me.  Issue,  by  first  marriage,  not  in  order  of 
birth: 

1.  Moses,  b.  in  1792.     See  family  20. 

2.  Aaron,  never  mar.;  d.  at  age  of  50  years. 

3.  Mariam,  who  mar.  Nelson. 

4.  Mary,  who  mar.  Twombley. 

5.  Sarah,  who  mar.  Simon  D.  Brackett  (see  div.  12,  fam.  16). 
Issue,  by  second  marriage,  not  in  order  of  birth:  Nancy;  Martha, 
who  mar.  Thomas  Rogers;   Betsey. 


EIGHTH     GENERATION. 

FAMILY  NO.  7. 
From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  James,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  in  Berwick,  August  18,  1774;  was  a 
farmer  in  Parsonsfield,  York  county,  Me.,  in  which  place  he  died 
April  3,  1803.  Married  July  2,  1800,  Betsey  Fogg,  born  May  27, 
1779,  died  in  1850,  daughter  of  James  and  wife,  Anne  Remick;  he 
was  born  June  23,  1731,  married  September  23,  1756,  died  in  1805, 
lived  in  Berwick,  was  son  of  James  Fogg;  he  was  born  March  17, 
1704,  married  October  28,  1728,  Elizabeth  Fernald,  died  December 
24,  1787,  lived  on  homestead  in  Eliot,  was  son  of  Daniel  Fogg;  he 
was  born  April  16,  1660,  married  about  1684,  Hannah  Ljbby  of  Scar- 
borough, daughter  of  John  (born  1602,  died  1682,  in  employ  of  John 
Winter  1635-9,  at  Richmond  island),  died  June  9,  1755,  moved  to 
Scarborough,  thence  to  Portsmouth,  thence  to  Kittery,  settled  in 
what  is  now  Eliot,  was  son  of  Samuel  Fogg;  he  was  born  February 
20,  1605,  married  October  12,  1652,  Ann  Shaw  (who  died  about 
1661),  came  in  1630,  from  Exeter,  England,  with  Winthrop,  to  Bos- 
ton;  in  Hampton  1638,  one  of  the  first  there. 

Anne  Remick,  who  married  James  Fogg,  was  born  July  17,  1738, 
was  daughter  of  Isaac  Remick;  he  was  born  February,  14,  1705, 
married  September  26,  1726,  Anna  x\llen,  was  a  shipwright,  lived  on 
Eliot's  neck,  belonged  to  Col.  John  Wheelwright's  detachment  of 
scouts,  which  served  in  the  Indian  war  of  1722-5;  was  son  of  Joshua 
Remick;  he  was  born  April  24,  1672,  married  December  21,  1693,  a* 
Amesbury,  Mass.,  Ann  Lancaster,  lived  on  the  home  place  on  Eliot's 
neck,  was  son  of  Christian  Remick;  he  was  the  immigrant  from  Eng- 
land, or  Holland,  born  1631,  was  in  Kittery  at  early  date,  settled  on 
Eliot's  neck,  was  several  times  selectman;  wife's  Christian  name  was 
Hannah. 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  259 

Elizabeth  Fernald,  who  married  James  Fogg,  Sr.,  was  born 
September  8,  1706,  died  in  1766,  was  daughter  of  James  Fernald;  he 

was  born  about    1675,   married  Mary (who  died  about   1740), 

died  about  1740,  was  son  of  John  Fernald;  he  was  born  about  1642, 
married  Mary  Spinney,  died  April  19,  1687,  was  a  cordwainer,  was 
son  of  Reginald  Fernald;  he  came  to  Portsmouth  as  surgeon  with 
colonists  sent  by  Captain  John  Mason,  died  in  1656,  wife's  name  was 
Joan. 

Mary  Spinney  was  daughter  of  Thomas,  the  immigrant;  he 
married  about  1651,  Margary  (perhaps,  Randall),  lived  at  end  of 
Eliot's  neck,  was  called  a  weaver,  died  August  31,  1701,  age  sixty- 
nine  years.     Issue: 

1.  Anna,  b.  13  Apr.,  1801;  was  living  in  1898;  mar.  Silas  Cart- 
land,  b.  19  Mar.,  1798,  son  of  Peletiah  and  wife,  Anna  Hanson;  had 
children,  Asa;  John  B.;  James;  Silas  H.;  Elizabeth;  Anna;  Joseph 
D. 

2.  John,  b.  4  June,  1803.     See  family  21. 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  James,  James. 

James  Braekett  was  born  in  Berwick,  June  18,  1777;  married 
Betsey  Braekett,  nee  Fogg,  his  brother's  widow;  was  a  farmer  in  Par- 
sonsfield,  Me.,  where  he  died  in  1844.     Issue: 

1.  James,  b.  10  June,  1805.     See  family  22. 

2.  Susan,  b.  11  Nov.,  1811;  date  of  death  not  learned;  mar.  1847, 
Samuel  M.  Bradbury,  b.  in  1804,  d.  22  Sept.,  1888,  son  of  James  and 
wife,  Ann  Moulton.  Children,  James  Otis;  Eva;  Carrie;  Frank  M.; 
Lizzie. 

3.  Elizabeth,  b.  in  1821;  also  mar.  Samuel  M.  Bradbury;  d.  in 
1900;  home,  in  Limington,  Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  James,  Isaac. 

Isaac  Braekett  was  born  August  7,  1782,  in  Berwick;  lived  in 
North  Berwick,   where  he  died  subsequently  to   i860;  was  commonly 

called    Deacon    Isaac.       Married    (1st)    ;     married    (2nd) 

Rebecca  Langley,  widow  of  Amos  Langley,  Sr.,  nee  Libby,  born 
June  24,  1798,  died  July  19,  1848,  daughter  of  James  of  Berwick,  and 
wife,  Hannah  Woodsum.      Issue: 

1.  Mary,  b.  in  1807;  never  mar.;  living  in  1880. 

2.  Sarah  S.,  b.  in  1828;  mar.  Amos  Langley,  Jr.,  (see  fam.  11). 
Issue: 

1st.      Mary  E.,  b.  about  1868. 
2nd.     Walter  M.,  b.  about  1872. 

3.  Dorcas,  b.  about  1836. 


260  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  James,  Levi. 

Levi  Braekett  was  born  in  Berwick,  July  16,  1787;  married 
August  18,  1807,  Mercy  Hall,  born  April  6,  1789,  died  April  27,  1880, 
daughter  of  Silas  and  wife,  Sarah  Clements;  was  a  farmer;  home,  in 
North  Berwick;  died  August  24,  1857.     Issue: 

1.  Silas,  b.  8  Feb.,  1809.     See  family  23. 

2.  James,  b.  14  Jan.,  1811.     See  family  24. 

3.  Ann,  b.  13  Apr.,  1813;  mar.  in  Nov.,  1837,  Oliver  Nutter,  b. 
29  June,  1 81 2,  d.  10  June,  1892,  son  of  Jacob  and  wife,  Elizabeth 
Johnson,  of  North  Berwick;  a  farmer  in  Alfred,  Me;  she  d.  24  Apr., 
1900.     Issue: 

1st.  Mary  E.  Nutter,  b.  22  Jan.,  1840;  mar.  S.  M.  Day;  home, 
in  Milford,  Mass.     Children,  Walter  C;   and  Annie,  who  mar.  Kay. 

2nd.  Joseph  B.,  b.  8  Dec,  1841;  mar.  Lucy  Allen;  home,  in 
Boston.     Children,  Frank  and  Lucy. 

3d.     James  J.,  b.  6  Oct.,  1843;  mar.  J F.  Day,  dau.  of  Robert 

and  wife,  Kdna  Littlefield;  lived  in  Alfred;  now  a  farmer  in  Mendon, 
Mass.  Issue:  I.  Elsworth,  b.  15  Oct.,  1867.  II.  Evelyn  J.,  b. 
12  Dec,  1869.  III.  Jennie  L.  J.,  b.  16  July,  1871.  IV.  Newton,  b. 
18  Aug.,  1872.  V.  Grace  G.,  b.  11  May,  1875.  VI.  Nettie  E., 
b.  6  Sept.,  1876. 

4th.     Oliver  G.,  b.  in  Apr.,  1845;  mar.  Abbie  Gary. 

5th.  John  T.,  b.  27  Aug.,  1846;  mar.  13  May,  1871,  Emma  F. 
Allen;  home,  in  Alfred.     Issue: 

I.  Helen  N.,  b.  6  Apr.,    1872;   mar.   24  Feb.,    1897,   Harrison 
H.  Fairfield.     Child,  Harrison  N.,  b.  26  Mar.,  1901. 

II.  Carrie  M.,  b.   26  July,    1874;   mar.   24  Nov.,  1894,    Henry 
E.  Wentworth;   d.  12  May,  1902. 

III.  George  W.,  b.  26  Apr.,  1877. 

IV.  Herbert  A.,  b.  23  Aug.,  1879. 

V.  Marcus  O.,  b.  11  Sept.,  1882. 

4.  John,  b.  21  Dec,  1815.     See  family  25. 

5.  Sarah,  b.  13  May,  1818;  mar.  George  W.  Keays;  d.  in  South 
Berwick,  1  May,  1881.     No  issue. 

6.  Olive,  b.  23  May,  1823;  mar.  Thomas  Hammond;  is  dec;  she 
d.  in  .South  Berwick,  30  Oct.,  1899.  Children,  Levi  B.;  Charles  M.; 
Hattie;   and  Nettie,  who  mar.  G.  H.  Hill;   all  dec. 

7.  Mary,  b.  14  Apr.,  1825;   d.  21  Sept.,  1829. 

8.  David,  b.  14  Mar.,  1827;  d.  27  Aug.,  1829. 

9.  Levi  K.,  b.  8  Apr.,  1832.     See  family  26. 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From  Family  No.  2.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  James,  Ebenezer. 
Ebenezer  Braekett  was  born  in  Berwick,  August  17,  1793;  resided 
in  North  Berwick,  where  he  died  February  24,  1869;  was  a  farmer; 
married  (1st)  Miriam  Gowen,  who  died;  married  (2nd)  September  14, 
1826,    Francis  Libby,  born  December  28,    1803,    died  December  28, 

1 87 1,  daughter  of  David  and  wife,  Alice .     Issue: 

1.     Martha,  b.  in  181 7;   d.  in  Oct.,  1898. 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  261 

2.  Isaac,  b.  in  1821;   never  mar.;  d.  in  Aug.,  1889. 

3.  Catharine,   b.  5  Aug.,    1827;   mar.  Amos  Dangley;  d.  in  Apr., 
1857.     Issue: 

1st.  Melissa,  b.  about  1850. 
2nd.  Fannie,  b.  about  1852. 
3d.     Susan,  b.  about  1856. 

4.  Eben,  b.  27  Aug..  1829;  d  in  Oct.,  1851. 

5.  Emeline,   b.  10  June,    1833;   mar.   Amos  Eangley;  d.  in  Sept., 

1859- 

6.  Libby  E.,  b.  10  Jan.,  1836;   mar.  Martha  Hanscom;   d.  26  Sept., 
1893.     Issue: 

1st.     Catharine,  who  mar.  Currier. 
2nd.     Eben  H.,  who  d.  unmar. 
3d.     Myra  xA.,  who  mar.  Goss. 

7.  Charles  L-,  b.  17  Apr.,  1843.     See  family  27. 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  Xo.  3.     Descent:    Anthony.  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Daniel,  Ivory. 

Ivory  Ihackett  was  born  November  25,  1788,  in  Shapleigh,  Me.; 
his  lather  removed  to  Wolfboro,  X.  H.;  there  he  grew  to  manhood 
and  married,  in  1814,  Sally  Willey,  born  September  1,  1790,  died 
April  22,  1867,  daughter  of  Nathaniel  and  wife,  Dorothy  Quimby,  of 
Wolfboro,  X.  H.  After  the  birth  of  his  second  child,  in  Wolfboro, 
he  removed  to  Bingham,  Me.,  then  to  Blanchard,  back  to  Bingham, 
then  to  Waterville,  Me.,  where  he  died  August  23,  1869.  Was  a 
farmer,  and  while  he  lived  in  Waterville,  a  drayman.  '"A  man  of 
most  sterling  qualities,"  writes  his  daughter,  Mrs.  Soule,  who  con- 
tinues:— 

"Of  a  very  mild  disposition,  bearing  anything  rather  than  com- 
plain or  quarrel,  he  was  yet  most  uncompromising  in  a  struggle  for 
the  right  *  *  He  was  very  active  in  the  so-called  Washingtonian 
temperance  movement  many  years  ago.  He  had  a  most  generous 
heart,  always  keeping  open  house  for  all,  but  yet  so  inflexible  was  his 
rule  for  Sabbath  observance  that  invited  guests  got  only  lunch  —  no 
cooking  or  unnecessary  work  ever  being  done  on  that  day.  In  relig- 
ious belief  he  was  a  Free  Will  Baptist,  and  at  the  time  of  his  death 
was  deacon  of  the  F.  W.  church  at  Fairfield;  he  was  connected  with 
that  denomination  from  early  life.  The  arrival  of  the  'Morning  Star,' 
the  Free  Will  Baptist  organ,  was  one  of  the  star  events  of  my  earliest 
childhood,  when  we  had  very  little  to  read  *    *  *  . 

In  person  he  was  above  the  average  height;  in  his  youth  I  should 
judge  he  was  six  feet;  of  commanding  presence,  prominent  features 
and  dark  sallow  complexion.  These  personal  traits  have  been  very 
marked  in  many  of  the  family  I  have  met  *  *  *  .  In  our  own  family 
and  its  succeeding  generations,  so  far,  every  one  has  married  a  pro- 
nounced blonde,  and  yet  no  blue-eyed  child  has  ever  appeared;  they 
all  hark  back  to  the  black-eyed  ancestor.  Another  family  trait  is  the 
early  blanching  of  the  hair.  We  are  all  gray  at  twenty  and  white 
before  fifty. 

His  carryall  was  like  a  bird's  nest  for  the  children  peeping  out  on 
all  sides  whenever  he  was  on  the  road.     I  believe  it  was  true  of  my 


262  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

father  that   'none  knew  him  but  to  love  him,'   and  I  am  proud  and 
glad  to  tender  this  tribute  to  his  memory." 

It  was  through  the  recollections  of  one  of  those  children  who  rode 
in,  and  clung  on  behind,  his  carryall,  that  the  writer  was  able  to  find 
one  of  his  descendants.  As  the  locating,  by  a  genealogist,  of  a  mem- 
ber of  some  branches  of  a  family,  is  the  result  of  accident  and  chance, 
it  may  be  of  interest  and  not  out  of  place,  to  relate  how  in  this 
instance  the  whereabouts  of  one  of  the  two  surviving  children  of  Ivory 
Brackett  were  learned.  The  story  is  similar  to  that  of  many  experi- 
ences of  the  kind,  with  like  results,  in  the  particular  of  their  turning 
upon  some  inconsequential  word  or  act  which  leads  to  another  and 
another,  until  the  genealogist,  ever  with  ear  and  eye  open,  seizes 
upon  the  possible  clue  or  means  of  aid,  and  follows,  or  utilizes  the  one 
or  the  other,  to  the  end,  or  to  good  purpose,  respectively.  One  morn- 
ing in  August,  1902,  the  writer  was  a  passenger  on  a  steamer  up  the 
Kennebec  and  in  sight  of  Gardiner,  patiently  waiting  for  the  tide  to 
lift  the  steamer  off  a  sandbar.  While  .sitting  on  the  deck  he  engaged 
in  conversation  an  elderly  gentleman,  a  Mr.  Fernald,  from  Waterville, 
Me.,  who  said  he  had  "always  lived  in  Waterville."  When  asked  if 
he  ever  knew  an  Ivory  Brackett,  he  at  first  said  that  he  never  had, 
and  asked  to  know  his  business.  When  told  that  he  was  a  drayman, 
Mr.  Fernald  said: —  "Ah!  I  remember  him  very  well;  when  I  was  a 
boy  I  used  to  hang  onto  his  dray  —  all  the  children  did  because  he 
let  them."  He  further  recollected  that — "he  was  quite  a  hand  to 
exhort  at  meetings,  was  a  good  speaker."  Also  knew  that  he  had 
daughters  but  did  not  know  he  had  sons  (sons  were  several  years 
older  than  was  Mr.  Fernald);  yes,  he  well  remembered  one  of  the 
daughters;  knew  whom  she  married,  and  thought  he  could  find  her; 
would  try  and  find  where  she  was  living.  A  postal  card  addressed  to 
the  writer  was  given  him.  A  few  weeks  later  he  wrote  a  postal,  say- 
ing that  a  Mr.  Soule  in  Maiden,  Mass.,  could,  perhaps,*  tell  what  was 
wanted.  Said  Mr.  Soule  was  written  to,  who  answered,  saying  that 
Mr.  or  Mrs.  George  H.  Soule  of  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  was  the  person 
who  was  searched  for.  The  Soules  of  Fitchburg  were  written  to. 
In  answer  came  a  letter  from  Mrs.  Silence  J.  Soule,  and  the  desired 
data  relative  to  her  branch  of  the  family.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  T.,  b.  25  Apr.,  1815.     See  family  28. 

2.  Nathaniel  W.,  b.  14  Nov.,  1816.     See  family  29. 

3.  Mary  Ann,  b.  19  Oct.,  1818;  never  mar.;  d.  23  Aug.,  1874. 

4.  Lydia  Tasker,  b.  6  Sept.,  1820;  never  mar.;  d.  12  Jan.,  1875. 

5.  Mehitable  Churchill,  b.  17  Aug.,  1822;  mar.  John  Canney;  d. 
in  Feb.,  i860.     Had  three  children,  all  of  whom  d.  in  infancy. 

6.  Irena,  b.  25  June,  1824;   mar.  Leonard  Holley;  d.  in  June,  1873. 

7.  Betsey  Crockett,  b.  5  Aug.,  1828;  mar.  Charles  Warren;  d. 
6  Sept.,  1905. 

8.  Silence  Jane,  b.  15  Dec,  1830,  in  Blanchard,  Me.;  mar.  4  July, 
1852,  George  Henry  Soule,  b.  in  1830,  son  of  Daniel  and  wife,  Mary 
Hayden;  home,  in  North  Leominster,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.  Elizabeth,  b.  in  1853;  mar.  in  1889,  George  A.  Malley; 
home,  in  Worcester,  Mass. 

2nd.     Leslie  B.,  b.  in  1855;  is  dec. 

3d.  Sarah  Estelle,  b.  in  1857;  mar.  in  1879,  George  H.  Pitcher; 
home,  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.     Issue: 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  263 

I.  Edward  L,.,  b.  in  1880. 

II.  Henry  B.,  b.  in  1882. 

4th.     Charles  Warren,  b.   in   1862:   mar.  in   1882,   Ellen  Glynn; 
home,  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.     Issue: 
I.     Bessie,  b.  in  1883. 

To  the  question,  "From  what  institution  of  learning  are  you  a 
graduate,"  Mrs  Soule  answered:  —  "I  graduated  from  the  most  famous 
institution  of  learning  in  New  England,  perhaps  in  the  United  States, 
—  the  little  red  schoolhouse."  Other  questions  elicited  that  she  had 
been  interested  in  prison-reform  work  and  in  temperance  work;  had, 
until  the  last  few  years,  been  an  active  member  of  the  W.  C.  T.  U. 
from  its  beginning.  The  beautiful  composition  in  her  letters,  the 
expression  of  thought  in  few  and  choice  words,  so  simple  and  con- 
cise in  style,  that  practice  alone  could  make  possible  the  perfection 
attained,  led  the  writer  to  venture  one  more  question,  viz.:  "Of  what 
literary  works  are  you  the  author?"  To  it  there  was  no  direct 
answer.  The  response  was  that —  "If  it  were  desirable  for  your 
book  I  could  furnish  a  picture  of  primitive  country  life  three-quarters 
of  a  century  ago.  We  hadn't  much  except  happiness,  but  that  was 
pretty  satisfactory." 

A  description  of  the  domestic  life  of  our  early  ancestors  properly 
constitutes  a  part  of  the  family  history,  the  life  of  one  being  much 
like  the  life  of  another;  and  there  is  not  a  great  difference  in  the 
domestic  life  of  one  who  lived  two  hundred  years  ago  and  one  who 
lived  but  a  hundred  years  ago.  Such  a  description  is  presented  to 
the  reader.  It  is  our  fortune  to  have  a  word-picture  of  the  domestic 
life  of  our  ancestors,  by  an  artist  who  has  painted  it  in  the  somber 
and  crude,  but  pleasing,  colors  of  reality,  and  with  unsurpassed 
excellence  in  all  its  details.  On  reading,  from  the  first  to  the  last 
paragraph,  one  is  continuously  charmed  into  an  exclusive  interest  as 
each  feature  is  presented  and  accurately  described  in  so  few  words 
that  one  can  quite  well  repeat  them  without  review,  and  in  such  sim- 
ple and  select  diction  as  to  make  impossible  any  confusion  of  thought. 
As  she  saw  and  knew  and  remembers  it,  that  primitive  life  is  made 
known  to  us  with  such  vivid  force  and  beauty,  that,  while  we  read  we 
become  impressed  in  the  belief  that  our  ancestors  had  much  to  enjoy 
which  we  are  denied. 


Primitive  Country  Life  of  Seventy-five  Years  Ago. 


BY    SILENCE   J.    SOULE. 


As  I  sit  at  my  farmhouse  window  and  look  across  the  pleasant 
fields,  I  see  a  row  of  telegraph  poles  marking  the  line  of  the  railroad. 
A  long  train  from  the  city  passes  swiftly  by;  nearer  on  the  roadway 
whizzes  a  motor-car  in  a  cloud  of  dust;  the  telephone  is  at  my  hand, 
the  mail-box  at  my  door. 

It  is  a  far  cry  from  these  modern  conditions  to  the  log  house 
where  I  was  born  three-quarties  of  a  century  ago.  I  sometimes  won- 
der whether  "lb  I,"  whether  I  shall  not  wake  presently  from  my 
dreamings. 


264  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

My  forebears  on  both  sides  were  among  the  very  early  settlers 
of  New  Hampshire,  and  had  their  part  in  the  making  of  colonial 
history.  In  those  days  stout  hearts  and  strong  arms  were  capital 
enough  for  any  young  man  and  woman  to  start  in  life.  For  example: 
One  morning  a  youth  and  maiden,  neither  twenty  years  old,  were 
married,  put  on  their  snow  shoes  and  trudged  fearlessly  off  on  their 
wedding  tour,  following  a  spotted  line  many  miles  into  the  unbroken 
forest,  to  a  solitary  log  cabin.  The  next  winter  there  came  to  them 
a  girl  baby,  my  maternal  grandmother,  said  to  be  the  first  white 
child  born  in  the  town  of  Wakefield,  New  Hampshire. 

My  father  and  mother  came  from  homes  very  much  like  this  and 
in  like  manner  began  for  themselves.  When  mother  was  married 
her  father  had  become  so  forehanded  that  he  could  give  his  daughter 
a  very  complete  "setting  out" —  a  bed  and  bedding,  chest  of  drawers, 
table,  six  chairs,  a  new  milch  cow,  six  sheep,  besides  homespun 
frocks,  a  white  dimity  wedding  gown  and  a  plaid  silk. 

My  father,  who  had,  no  doubt,  inherited  something  of  the 
adventurous  spirit  which  led  Anthony  Brackett  to  cross  the  sea, 
decided  to  seek  his  fortune  in  the  wilds  of  Maine;  accordingly,  he 
located  on  the  Kennebec  river  some  fifty  miles  above  Augusta  where 
there  was  already  a  small  settlement. 

A  century  ago,  a  journey  of  one  hundred-fifty  miles  was  not  to 
be  lightly  undertaken,  it  having  to  be  made  on  foot  or  horseback 
over  roads  hardly  deserving  the  name;  but  it  could  be  done.  My 
grandparents  several  times  visited  our  Maine  home,  and  I  remember 
that  twice  father  and  a  friend  walked  to  New  Hampshire  to  visit 
their  relatives,  spending  from  a  week  to  ten  days  on  the  road. 

With  material  only  too  plenty  and  neighbors  to  lend  a  hand,  it 
did  not  take  long  to  rear  a  substantial  log  house  with  fireplace  and 
chimney  of  field  stone,  with  floor  of  rifted  planks  and  hearthstone 
and  door-rock  in  place.  An  immense  back  log  being  rolled  into  the 
fireplace  with  its  companion  fire  stick  and  a  quantity  of  light  wood 
cunningly  placed,  the  fire  was  kindled  and  the  new  home  was 
established.  It  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  lighting  a  fire  was  not 
simply  scratching  a  match.  If  no  far-seeing  person  had  brought  fire 
there  must  be  recourse  to  flint  and  steel,  with  which,  if  you  were 
lucky,  you  might  get  a  fire  in  five  minutes.  Afterwards  the  house 
would  be  chinked  on  the  outside  with  clay  and  moss,  the  inside 
hewn  smooth  and  a  dresser  set  up  for  dishes.  A  lean-to  covered 
with  turf  supplied  the  place  of  a  cellar. 

When  I,  being  the  youngest,  can  first  remember,  affairs  had  so 
prospered  that  we  lived  in  a  frame  house  having  a  best  room  with 
braided  rugs  on  the  floor  and  asparagus  branches  in  the  fireplace. 
The  best  bed  stood  in  one  corner  gay  with  its  copper-plate  coverlet 
and  curtains,  and  high  on  the  tester  sheet  were  stored  precious  things 
out  of  the  way  of  little  folks.  Lilacs  and  cinnamon  roses  sweetened 
the  early  summer  air,  and  in  the  flower  garden,  where  a  corner  was 
reserved  for  sage,  chamomile,  catnip,  feverfew,  and  other  herbs  of 
power, —  hollyhocks,  poppies,  four-o'clocks,  bachelor's-buttons,  mari- 
golds, double  buttercups,  sweet-williams,  spice  pinks,  and  lady's 
delights  rioted  and  bloomed  at  their  own  sweet  will. 

Everybody  had  to  work  hard  early  and  late,  but  there  need  be 
no  lack  of  rude  plenty;  at  any  rate  not  when  land  enough  had  been 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  265 

cleared  to  raise  corn  and  potatoes.     The  virgin  soil  was  very  produc- 
tive, and  the  fight  with  bug  and  blight  was  not  on. 

The  fuel  supply  was  unlimited;  there  were  all  kinds  of  game, 
furred  and  feathered,  in  the  woods;  fish  abounded  in  river  and  pond; 
the  sugar  maple  gave  syrup  and  sugar,  the  bees,  honey,  and,  what 
was  more  important,  wax  for  candles.  We  picked  wild  berries  in 
their  season,  drying  a  quantity  for  winter  use,  and  laid  in  a  store  of 
nuts. 

There  was  little  difference  between  the  richest  and  poorest  of  us. 
The  rich  had  broader  acres  and  larger  barns;  in  their  houses,  another 
brass  kettle  or  two  and  more  pewter  platters  shining  on  the  dresser; 
but  all,  rich  and  poor,  toiled  hard  every  day,  the  men  in  the  field 
and  the  women  in  the  house.  There  was  no  leisure  class  and  very 
little  money. 

We  all  wore  homespun,  woolen  in  winter  and  linen  in  summer. 
Our  plaid  linens,  natural  color  or  white  crossed  with  blue  or  brown, 
were  very  pretty.  Lace,  knit  of  bleached  linen  thread,  finished 
the  neck  and  sleeves  of  our  frocks;  for  best  we  wore  mitts  and 
stockings  of  the  white  linen,  knit  in  fancy  open-work  patterns. 
Mother  was  an  expert  at  the  loom  and  wove  towel  and  table  linen  in 
handsome  designs,  bleaching  it  on  the  grass  in  apple-blossom  time 
if  possible. 

We  made  or  raised  so  nearly  all  we  used  that  we  were  very  inde- 
pendent of  the  nearest  general  store  seven  miles  away.  I  think  salt 
was  the  only  very  necessary  thing  we  could  not  provide.  We  had 
other  things  as  tea,  tobacco,  spice,  raisins,  a  sugar  loaf  and  rice, 
exchanging  farm  produce  for  them. 

The  coming  of  the  tin  pedlar  three  or  four  times  a  year  was  a 
very  exciting  event.  Mother  got  buttons,  pins  and  needles,  fine 
thread,  sometimes  a  web  of  cotton  sheeting,  and  we  looked  with 
longing  eyes  at  the  flowered  calicoes  and  delaines,  not  knowing  that 
our  homespun  was  much  more  artistic. 

My  ever  increasing  wonder  is  that  the  days  were  long  enough  to 
do  our" work.  Not  long  ago  a  memorial-day  orator  said:  "A  people 
are  at  their  best  under  the  spur  of  necessity."  That's  where  we 
were.  We  early  learned  that  we  must  work  if  we  would  eat  and  be 
clothed, — "must  find  a  way  or  make  a  way." 

The  school  privileges  were  very  limited  but  there  was  always 
some  provision.  One  advantage  we  had  over  the  much  schooled 
child  of  to-day,  we  were  book  hungry.  For  that  reason  we  got  a 
good  deal  out  of  the  short  school  years.  Good  manners  were  required 
as  much  as  good  lessons.  Entering  the  schoolroom,  the  boys  bowed 
politely  to  the  teacher  and  the  girls  courtesied  more  or  less  grace- 
fully. It  was  expected  that  every  person  passed  on  the  road  should 
be  saluted,  especially  strangers.  If  we  were  a  party,  we  stood,— 
boys  on  one  side  of  the  road,  hats  off;  girls  on  the  other,  bowing  and 
courtesying. 

Race  suicide  did  not  threaten  our  community;  our  family  of 
eight  was  very  small.  The  average  was  nearer  twelve  than  ten. 
Often  there  were  fifteen  children,  and  I  know  one  family  that  num- 
bered twenty-two;  it  is  only  fair  to  say  that  there  were  two  mothers. 

The  fireplace  took  up  one  side  of  our  schoolhouse.  On  two 
other  sides  shelves  were  set  against  the  wall  for  writing  desks.     The 


266  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

seats  were  long  benches  before  these  desks,  the  same  height  for  large 
and  small. 

We  went  to  school  over  a  very  bleak,  hilly  road.  If  a  storm 
came  up  in  winter  we  would  find  father  waiting  at  the  schoolhouse 
door  with  the  ox-sled;  everybody  going  our  way  snuggling  cosily 
under  the  warm  covers  with  much  nudging  and  giggling.  How 
pleasant  it  was  when  mother,  watching  for  us,  flung  wide  the  door 
and  the  red  heart  of  the  big  fire  leaped  out  into  the  dark  and  storm! 
How  good  the  supper  tasted!  beans  and  brown  bread  hot  from  the 
oven,  boiled  dinner  on  a  big  blue  platter  that  half  covered  the  table, 
or  perhaps  it  was  potatoes  roasted  in  the  ashes,  salt  fish  broiled  over 
the  coals  with  slices  of  salt  pork,  brown  and  crisp,  and  corn  cake 
baked  before  the  fire. 

Supper  over,  unless  there  was  reading  or  sewing,  no  candle  was 
lighted.  Pitch  pine  knots  were  heaped  on  the  fire  and  mother  and 
the  older  girls  took  up  their  work,  generally  knitting,  while  father 
and  the  boys  made  or  mended  some  farming  implements,  wove 
baskets  or  shaved  sweet-scented  cedar  shingles,  which  we  younger 
ones  counted  and  bunched.  Sometimes  we  practiced  writing  on  big 
sheets  of  birch  bark  with  a  coal  from  the  fireplace;  paper  was  scarce 
and  quill  pens  needed  frequent  mending.  Often  we  roasted  apples 
on  the  clean-winged  hearth,  popped  corn  in  the  ashes,  tending  it  with 
long  sticks,  or  just  talked  and  laughed  about  nothing,  being  happy. 

Church  privileges  were  also  scanty  and  prized  in  proportion. 
Any  itinerant  minister  giving  out  notice  of  a  Sunday  service  at  the 
schoolhouse  would  be  sure  of  an  attentive  audience.  Men,  women 
and  children  sat  patiently  on  the  hard  benches  listening  to  sermons 
for  hours.  A  very  stern  and  uncompromising  gospel  was  dealt  out 
to  us,  well  suited  to  the  needs  of  those  hardy  pioneers,  before  whose 
ax  and  firebrand  barbarous  nature  was  slowly  retreating.  Soft  words 
were  not  for  such  as  these.  They  expected  to  fight  for  salvation 
even  as  they  fought  for  subsistence.  The  bearer  of  a  milder  message 
would  have  fallen  under  grave  suspicion  of  being  unsound  in  doctrine. 

Besides  our  school  books  we  had  the  Bible,  Pilgrim's  Progress, 
almanacs  and  our  weekly  paper,  "The  Morning  Star."  Words  can- 
not describe  the  eagerness  with  which  we  awaited  its  coming,  the 
interest  with  which  we  read  its  prosey  columns,  the  delight  with 
which  we  learned  and  recited  the  rhymes  in  the  poet's  corner.  The 
paper  went  the  rounds  of  the  neighborhood  and  was  then  carefully 
put  away;  to  have  torn  or  burned  it  would  have  been  a  sacrilege. 

For  amusements,  we  had  in  the  fall  the  paring  and  husking  bees, 
happily  combining  work  and  play.  I  can  think  of  nothing  pleasanter 
than  the  romping  games  and  dancing  on  the  big  barn  floor  by  the 
light  of  the  harvest  moon. 

The  spelling  book  was  our  literary  entertainment.  There  was 
great  rivalry  between  districts  and  good  spellers  were  held  in  honor. 
Recitations  and  singing  began  the  evening  but  the  interest  all  cen- 
tered in  the  spelling  contest.  Cheeks  flushed  and  eyes  grew  bright 
as  one  after  another  were  "spelled  down,"  and  the  excitement  reached 
its  height  when  only  one  on  each  side  was  left  to  contend. 

Of  course  we  had  a  singing  school.  Everybody  went  and  sang 
heartily  in  or  out  of  time.  One  very  pleasant  thing  about  these 
gatherings  was  that  they  included  everybody,  young  and  old,  all 
having  a  good  time  together. 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  267 

A  clever  kuack  of  putting  together  rhymes,  hitting  of  local 
events,  made  father  a  very  welcome  guest  on  any  occasion  where 
speeches  were  made.  He  was  always  in  demand  at  the  "raisings" 
to  "name  the  building." 

These  happy  days  all  too  quickly  sped.  The  roving  spirit  had 
descended  upon  my  younger  brother  and  he  made  his  way  to  Boston, 
whither  he  was  soon  followed  by  my  older  sisters.  Then  indeed  we 
began  to  get  in  touch  with  the  big  world  through  their  letters,  which 
were  well  worth  the  twenty  cents  we  paid  for  postage,  and  the  won- 
derful things  they  brought  to  us.  We  began  to  wear  calico  and 
cashmere  and  mother  went  grandly  in  a  pair  of  rubbers,  the  admira- 
tion and  despair  of  all  beholders.  Think  of  it!  not  a  half  dozen  per- 
sons in  the  neighborhood  had  ever  seen  rubbers! 

In  1848,  I  made  my  first  visit  to  Boston.  The  railroad  had  then 
been  extended  to  Waterville  and  the  journey  was  made  in  a  day, 
which  now  takes  five  hours. 

About  this  time  the  exodus  from  the  country  to  town  began.  It 
seemed  almost  cruel  to  leave  those  farms  so  hardly  gained;  but  the 
larger  life  of  the  city  wooed  and  our  young  men  were  won.  The 
golden  West  beckoned  and  they  followed. 

I  have  observed  that  old  people  live  much  in  the  past.  As  I 
grow  older  I  find  myself  turning  oftener  to  the  days  in  the  old  home. 
I  hear  the  patter  and  the  prattle  of  childish  feet  and  voice;  light  step 
and  laugh  of  youth  and  maid;  sober  footfall  and  serious  word  of  man 
and  matron;  the  slowing  step  and  failing  voice  of  age.  All,  all  are 
gone!   I  alone  am  left  of 

"The  dear  home  faces  whereupon 
The  fitful  firelight  paled  and  shone; 
Hence  forward,  listen  as  I  will 
The  voices  of  that  hearth  are  still. 
How  strange  it  seems  with  so  much  gone, 
Of  life  and  love  to  still  live  on." 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From  Family  No.  4.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Miles,  Samuel. 
Samuel  Brackett  was  born  in  Berwick,  December  16,  1777;  mar- 
ried Susan  Brown,  who  died  November  22,  1805;  married  (2nd)  Jane 
Fernald,  who  died  March  15,  i.815;  married  (3d)  Joanna  Hall,  who 
died  September  26,  1844;  lived  in  Berwick  to  subsequently  to  1830; 
moved  to  Kennebec  county  where  he  died  January  29,  1842;  buried 
in  town  of  Albion.     Issue: 

1.  Jacob,  b.  5  Nov.,  1800.     See  family  30. 

2.  Asa,  b.  3  Dec,  1803;  d.  9  Aug.,  1841. 

3.  Charles,  b.  1  Nov.,  1805;  d.  1  Nov.,  1805. 

4.  Melinda,  b.  29  Feb.,  1812;  mar.  3  Nov.,  1833,  Samuel  Clem- 
ents, b.  in  1805;  lived  in  Palmyra  in  i860;  she  d.  2  Mar.,  1887.  Had 
Justin  D.,  1836;  Joseph  F.,  1837;  Martha  A.,  1841,  mar.  Barnum; 
Mary  A.,  1841,  d.  before  1898;  Charles  W.,  1846;  Sarah  J.,  1845; 
Albion  S.,  1852;  Ella  M.,  1855,  mar.  Creighton. 

5.  Samuel,  Jr.,  b.  2  Aug.,  1819.     See  family  No.  31. 

6.  Susan,  b.  2  Apr.,  1821;  mar.  5  Jan.,  1848,  David  Hayes. 


208  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

7.  Jane,  b.  2  Apr.,  1821;  mar.  28  Apr.,  1838,  Oliver  Clements, 
b.  in  1812.  Children,  Celesta  A.,  1842;  Cynthia  J.,  1844;  Lucinda 
L.,  1846;  John  F.,  1849;   William  O.,  1 851;  Alfred  L-.  1852. 

8.  Miles,  b.  10  Mar.,  1823;  never  mar. 

9.  John,  b.  30  Dec.,  1824;  d.  21  Sept.,  1825. 

10.  William,  b.  6  Aug.,  1826.     See  family  32. 

11.  Lois,  b.  19  Aug.,  1828;  mar.  22  Jan.,  1848,  Benjamin  Her- 
som,  son  of  John  and  wife,  Eunice  Knox;  b.  12  Sept.,  1816,  d.  24 
Mar.,  1896,  was  a  farmer;  home,  Lebanon,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     John  A.  C,  b.  25  Mar.,  1849;  home,  Lowell,  Mass. 

2nd.     Betsey  Clark,  b.  26  July,  1852. 

3d.  Richard  E.,  b.  20  Jan.,  1856;  mar.  10  May,  1885,  Cora  T. 
Hersom;   home,  Chelsea,  Mass. 

4th.  Cynthia,  b.  19  Nov.,  1859;  mar.  10  May,  1879,  Thomas 
W.  Peavey;  home,  East  Rochester,  Mass. 

5th.  Sarah  F.,  b.  4  Mar.,  1862;  mar.  17  Nov.,  1877,  Orin  Her- 
sam;  home,  Lebanon  Center,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Allie  D.,  b.  14  Mar.,  1879. 

II.  Ethel  A.,  b.  10  Sept.,  1882. 

III.  Frank  A.,  b.  20  May,  1885. 

0th.     William  F.,  b.   11  Aug.,   1867;  mar.  20  Oct.,   1893,  Mary 
F.  Dearborn;  home,  Rochester,  N.  H.     Issue: 
I.     Clara  Hersom,  b.  8  Nov.,  1897. 
7th.     Mattie  L-,  b.  9  Mar.,  1870. 
8th.     Fred  A.,  b.  19  Nov.,  1872. 

12.  Lydia,  b.  19  June,  1831;  mar.  2  Mar.,  1853,  Charles  Lord  of 
Palmyra. 

13.  Betsey  R.,  b.  3  June,  1833;  mar.  John  Dearborn;  d.  26  June, 
1856. 

14.  Mark  F.,  b.  10  Apr.,  1836;  mar.  Frances  Wyman;  lived  in 
Bangor,  Me.;  had  son  William  H.,  a  dentist,  in  Crawford,  N.  J. 

15.  Susan  C,  b.  4  Sept.,  1838;  home,  in  Boston,  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  4.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Miles,  Miles,  Jr. 
Miles  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  September  26,  1780,  in  Berwick; 
moved  to  Detroit,  Me.,  subsequently  to  1820,  where  he  died  June  6, 
1834;  was  a  farmer;  married  February  14,  1803,  Sarah  Hurd,  born  in 
1783,  died  in  1869,  daughter  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Sarah  Wentworth; 
he  was  son  of  Benjamin  Hurd  (son  of  James  and  wife,  Deborah,  son 
of  Benjamin,  son  of  John),  born  August  2,  1715,  in  Dover,  N.  H.( 
and  wife,  Mary  Willey,  daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Sarah,  of  Dur- 
ham, N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Hiram,  b.  in  1803.     See  family  33. 

2.  Susan,  b.  in  1805,  in  Berwick;  mar.  in  1828,  Thomas  Staples; 
d.  in  1829. 

3.  Anna,  b.  in  1808,  in  Berwick;  d.  in  1827. 

4.  Betsey,  b.  in  181 2,  in  Berwick;  mar.  in  1821,  Thomas  Pray; 
d.  in  1871. 

5.  Lydia,  b.  in  1815;  mar.  in  1837,  Isaac  Goodwin;  d.  in  1852. 
0.     Joseph,  b.  in  1821;  unmar.  in  1880. 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  269 

7.  Charles  O.,  b.  i  Jan.,  1823.     See  family  34. 

8.  Anna  M.,  b.  in  1827. 

FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From  Family  No.  4.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Miles,  John. 
John  Brackett  was  born  January  28,  1785,  in  Berwick;  lived  in 
Palmyra,  Me.,  where  he  died  July  7,  1869;  was  a  farmer;  married  in 
1806,  Susan  Hurd,  born  June  20,  1787,  died  in  1869,  daughter  of 
Joseph  Hurd  and  wife,  Sarah  Wentworth  (see  family  14).     Issue: 

1.  George,  b.  6  Apr.,  1807;  d.  10  May,  1873,  in  Madison,  N.  H.; 
was  mar.;  had  one  dau.  who  d.  in  Berwick. 

2.  Ivory,  b.  30  Aug.,  181 1.     See  family  35. 

3.  Jane,  b.  17  Apr.,  1814;  mar.  Jefferson  Goodwin,  of  Palmyra. 

4.  Sophia,    b.    12    Sept.,    1820;  mar.   George   D.   Waterhouse,  of 
Palmyra;   d.  6  Oct.,  1896. 

5.  Sybil  A.,  b.  25  Oct.,  1825;   mar.  Joseph  L,ord. 

FAMILY    NO.    16. 

From  Family  No.  4.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Miles,  David. 
David  Brackett,  was  born  July  18,  1793,  in  North  Berwick;  a 
farmer  in  Wakefield,  N.  H.,  where  he  died  November  29,  1871; 
married  February  12,  1818,  Nancy  Fernald,  born  July  8,  1796,  died 
March  2,  1882.     Issue: 

1.  Jane,  b.  13  Nov.,  1818;  d.  25  Feb.,  1835. 

2.  Daniel,   b.    18   Dec,    1820;  mar.   Hannah   Cook;   d.    15   Apr., 
1 88 1.     Issue: 

1st.     Sarah  Putnam,  b.  22  Aug.,  1846. 
2nd.     Jennie,  b.  19  Aug.,  1850. 
3d.     Daniel,  b.  24  July,  1862. 

3.  Miriam,  b.  26  Nov.,  1824;  d.  5  Sept.,  1828. 

4.  Charles  E.,  b.  2  Nov.,  1828.     See  family  36. 

5.  Miles,  b.  26  Mar.,  1832;   d.  22  Sept.,  1863. 

6.  John  H.,  b.  20  Apr.,  1834;  home,  in  Sanbornville,  N.  H. 

7.  David  F.,  b.  28  Nov.,  1836;  home,  in  Springfield,  Mass. 

8.  Asa  M.,  b.  14  Dec,  1839.     See  family  37. 

FAMILY    NO.    17. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Nathan,  Nathan. 
Nathan  Brackett  was  born  in  1784,  in  Berwick;  lived  in  Shap- 
leigh,  and  in  Clinton,  Kennebec  county,  Me.,  in  which  latter  place  he 
died;  was  a  farmer;  married  Susannah  Holt  —  — ;  served  in  war  of 
1812.  Enlisted  May  29,  181 1,  in  3d  regiment,  2nd  brigade,  8th  divi- 
sion, militia  of  Massachusetts.  Pensioned  on  account  of  injury  to 
hip  received  in  September,  1814;  was  appointed  ensign  May  21,  181 1. 
Issue: 

1.  Miriam,  never  mar.;  d.  at  the  age  of  86. 

2.  Eaura,  d.  in  infancy. 


270  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

3.  Laura,  mar.  Mark  Bates;  is  dec;   had  3  children. 

4.  Martha,  mar.  Alfred  Wood;  is  dec.;  lived  in  Winslow;  had  a 
large  family. 

5.  Susan,  mar.  Clarendon  Wood;   is  dec;  lived  in  Benton,  Me. 

6.  Hannah,  mar.  Dexter;   lived  in  Sangerville,  Me.;  is  dec. 

7.  Nathan,  d.  when  at  the  age  of  16. 

8.  Achsah,  mar.  Newcomb;   is  dec. 

9.  Abigail,  mar.  Harvey;  lived  in  Clinton;   is  dec. 

10.  Daniel,  born  in  Clinton;  mar.  12  Sept.,  1864,  Irene  M. 
Brackett  (see  fam.  30);  home,  in  Detroit.     Issue: 

1st.     Florence  M.,  b.  23  May,  1869. 
2nd.     Louis  F.,  b.  6  Nov.,  1870. 

11.  Pluma,  mar.  Leander  Eastman;  is  dec. 

12.  Nathan,   d.  in  infancy. 

13.  Benjamin,  b.  16  Mar.,  1829.     See  family  38. 

FAMILY  NO.    18. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  Nathan,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  April  11,  1787,  in  Shapleigh,  now 
Acton,  Me.,  where  he  always  lived;  was  a  tanner  and  farmer;  died 
July  24,  1854;  married  April  8,  1810,  Polly  Sharp,  born  March 
7,  1789,  died  March  21,  1861,  daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Betsey 
Woodsum,  of  Acton.     Issue: 

1.  Paulina,  b.  18  Mar.,  181 1;  d.  30  Apr.,  1816. 

2.  Mary,  b.  6  April,  1813;  mar.  David  Libby,  b.  30  Mar.,  1808, 
in  Lebanon,  Me.,  d.  16  Oct.,  1862,  in  Brownfield,  Me.,  son  of  James 
L.,  and  wife,  Hannah  Woodsum;  home,  in  Acton;  she  d.  2  May, 
1849.     Issue: 

1st.     James  W.,  b.  2  Aug.,  1833;   d.  1  Jan.,  1853. 
2nd.     Naomi  B.,  b.  16  Jan.,  1838;  d.  4  Aug.,  1843. 
3d.     Mary  A.,  b.  in  June,  1842;  d.  4  Mar.,  1843. 
4th.     George  E.,  b.  17  Mar.,  1846. 

3.  Nathan,  b.  10  Mar.,  1815.     See  family  39. 

4.  Eliza,  b.  17  Sept.,  1817;  mar.  4  June,  1837,  Horace  Bodwell, 
b.  4  Oct.,  1816;  home,  in  Acton.     Issue: 

1st.  John  B.,  b.  5  Oct.,  1838;  mar.  Charlotte  Emerk;  home,  in 
Harriman,  Tenn. 

2nd.  Mary  E.,  b.  5  Apr.,  1840;  mar.  N.  L.  Butler;  home,  in 
Acton,  Me. 

3d.  Miriam  B.,  b.  9  Feb.,  1842;  mar.  Dr.  P.  C.  Garvin;  lived 
in  Frankfort,  Kansas;  is  dec. 

4th.  Phebe  M.,  b.  23  Dec,  1843;  mar.  E.  N.  Watson;  lived  in 
Lynn,  Mass.;  is  dec. 

5th.     Julia  B.,  b.  3  Dec,  1845;   is  dec. 

6th.  Horace  J.,  b.  7  Mar.,  1848;  mar.  Josie  Ricker;  home,  in 
Lynn,  Mass. 

7th.  Frank  D.,  b.  20  Mar.,  1851.;  mar.  Temperance  B.  Gowing: 
home,  in  Acton. 

8th.  Fred  K.,  b.  23  Dec,  1853;  mar.  Jennie  Hutchins;  home, 
n  Acton,  Me. 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  271 

5.  Jane,  b.  20  June,  1820;  mar.  27  Oct.,  1839,  Leonard  Went- 
worth,  b.  8  Apr.,  1813;  she  d.  11  Oct.,  1877.     Issue: 

1st.  Martin  Van  Buren,  b.  2  Oct.,  1841;  mar.  5  Mar.,  1869, 
Ora  Lord,  dau.  of  Charles  C;  he  d.  in  1870. 

2nd.  Edward  A.,  b.  14  Aug.,  1843,  mar.  16  May,  1875,  Fanny 
Lary,  dau.  of  Stephen.     Had  Lilly,  b.  24  June,  1876. 

3d.  Martha  J.,  b.  4  May,  1846;  mar.  24  Oct.,  1875,  Stephen 
Marsh,  of  Acton.     Had  Forest  J.,   b.  5  Sept.,  1876. 

4th.     Crosby  L.,  b.  28  Jan.,  1849. 

5th.     John  B.,  b.  4  Nov.,  1855. 

6.  Martha,  b.  23  Nov.,  1822;  mar.  Ephraim  Wentworth.  Chil- 
dren, Augusta;   Harry;   Rose;  Orville. 

7.  Naomi,  b.  29  Apr.,  1825;  d.  6  Oct.,  1827. 

8.  Draxy,  b.  17  Oct.,  1827;  mar.  Luther  Godding.  Children, 
Herbert;   Howard;   Charles. 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From  Family  No.  5.      Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John.  Nathan,  James  H. 

James  Hurd  Brackett  was  born  in  1790,  in  Acton,  Me.;  married 
Hannah  Brazier;  lived  for  a  time  in  Clinton;  served  in  the  war  of 
1812,  enlisted  April  17,  1813,  in  Captain  Robert  Douglas'  company, 
34th  United  States  infantry,  for  the  term  of  one  year,  which  he 
served;  discharged  at  Platsburg,  N.  Y.;  was  in  battle  of  Chabeaugay 
in  October,  18 13;  allowed  pension  in  1831,  at  which  time  he  was  a 
resident  of  Kennebec  county.     Issue: 

1.  John,  who  died  in  infancy. 

2.  Benjamin,  d.  unmar.  subsequently  to  1850. 

.!.  George  W.,  who  d.  in  the  army;  was  perhaps  the  George  W. 
Brackett  who  served  in  company  G.,  7th  Me.  vol.  inf. 

4.  Phoeba,  who  mar.  David  Clough.     Issue: 
1st.     Edward. 

2nd.     Nettie,  who  mar.  John  Forem. 
3d.     Hannah,  who  mar.  Edward  Soule. 
4th.     Lizzie,  who  mar.  Lockhart  Hayes. 
5th.     Frank,  who  died  at  the  age  of  14  years. 

5.  Franklin  H.,  b.  16  July,  1836.     See  family  40. 

6.  Marv  Elizabeth,  b.  28  Feb.,  1839;  mar.  in  1861,  Charles  J. 
Griffin,  son  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Sarah  Jane  Parker;  home,  in  Port- 
land.    Issue: 

1st.  Hattie,  born  1862,  mar.  William  Brazier;  had  Augustus; 
Chester;  Joseph;  and  Arthur  William. 

2nd.     Walter  Brackett,  born  in  1864;   mar.  Maud  Moss. 

3d.  Alice,  born  1880;  mar.  Joseph  P.  Prahm,  a  mariner,  son 
of  Joseph  William;  home,  in  Portland. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 
From  Family  No.  '6.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John.  Moses,  Moses,  Jr. 
Moses  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  in  1792,  in  New  Hampshire,  prob- 
ably in  the  town  of  Milton;   removed  to  town  of  Clinton,  Kennebec 


272  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

county;  Me.,  where  he  died   subsequently  to   i860;    was    a  farmer; 
married  Abigail  Braekett  (see  family  5.)     Issue: 

1.  Phebe,  b.  26  Jan.,  1821;  mar.  Israel  H.  Richardson,  farmer 
and  cattle  drover,  b.  17  Dec,  1817,  d.  17  June,  1898,  son  of  Israel 
and  wife,  Sarah  Wells,  of  Benton,  Me.;  always  lived  in  Clinton. 
Issue: 

1st.  Emma  F.,  b.    12  Dec,    1845;   mar.  John  W.  Walker,  son 

of    Ivory  and  wife,  Betsey  Titcomb;    home,   in  East    Fairfield,   Me. 
Issue: 

I.  Lidie  M.,  b.  26  Oct.,  1870;  telegraph  operator. 

II.  Guy  I.,  b.  28  July,  1872;  d.  1  Dec,  1876. 

III.  Ivory,  b.  21  Oct.,  1873;  d.  5  Dec,  1876. 

IV.  Floy  E-,  b.  21  July,  1882. 

2nd.  Moses  I.,  b.  17  Nov.,  1847;  mar.  Eulu  Holt.  Children, 
Earl;   Maud;   Arietta;   Blaine;   Eee;   Emma. 

3d.     Albion  F.,  b.  5  Dec,  1849. 

4th.  Abbie  J.,  b.  5  Mar.,  1852;  mar.  8  Nov.,  1874,  George  E. 
Richer.     Had  sous,  Ray  C.  and  Dwight. 

5th.     Nathan,  b.  6  June,  1855;   is  dec. 

2.  John,  b.  14  Sept.,  1822;   never  mar.;  d.  4  May,  1856. 

3.  Moses,  b.  23  Jan.,  1825;   never  mar.;   d.  7  Sept.,  1879. 

4.  Mary  E.,  b.  25  Feb.,  1827;  d.  28  Aug.,  1827. 

5.  Betsey  J.,  b.  4  Aug.,  1830;  d.  25  Mar.,  1854. 

6.  Abigail,  b.  10  Nov.,  1833;  mar.  Warren  Burrill;  home,  in 
Clinton. 

7.  Aaron,  b.  12  July,  1834;   d.  19  Jan.,  1837. 

8.  Miriam,  b.  15  Dec,  1840;  d.  1  Oct.,  1862. 


NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From  Family  No.  7.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
John,  James,  John,  John. 

John  Braekett  was  born  June  4,  1803,  in  Parsonsfield,  Me.;  re- 
sided all  his  life  in  Parsonsfield;  was  closely  associated  with  its  pub- 
lic affairs;  county  treasurer  from  1856-9  and  selectman  1835-9;  a 
farmer;  died  February  4,  1886.  Married  March  23,  1827,  Jemima 
E.  Eord,  born  July  10,  1802,  died  in  1893,  daughter  of  Reuben 
Wentworth  Eord  and  wife,  Patience  Braekett  (see  division  11,  family 
1 ),  was  sou  of  Abraham  Eord;  he  died  in  1783,  married  Betsey  Davis 
of  Portsmouth,  was  son  of  Captain  Samuel  Eord;  he  was  born  June  14, 
1689,  died  before  1765,  married  in  Kittery,  October  19,  1710,  Martha 
Wentworth,  was  son  of  Nathan;  he  married  November  22,  1678, 
Martha  Tozier.     Martha  Wentworth  was  born  February  9,  1684;  was 

daughter  of  Paul  (and  wife  Catharine -);  he  was  born  about  1655; 

died  1750,  was  son  of  the  immigrant,  Elder  William  Wentworth  who 
was  in  America  in  July,  1639.  Perhaps  Martha  Tozier  was  daughter 
of  Richard  Tozier,  Jr.;  he  married  July  3,  1656,  Judith  Smith, 
Deputy  Governor  Bellingham  officiating.  Richard  Tozier,  Jr.,  was 
twice  captured  and  carried  to  Canada  by  the  Indians,  and  his  .wife 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  273 

three  times,  twice  with  him;  there  are  many  traditions  about  her 
exploits  with  the  Indians.  One  was — and  I  have  heard  my  father 
relate  the  story  many  times — that  a  party  of  Indians  came  upon  her 
while  she  was  boiling  soap;  at  short  range  she  let  fly  the  hot  soap 
by  the  ladleful  on  the  naked  bodies  of  the  redskins.  Richard 
Tozier,  Jr.,  was  son  of  Sergeant  Richard  Tozier,  Sr.,  killed  October 
16,  1675,  with  Isaac  Botts,  at  Tozier's  garrison  house  in  Berwick. 
Issue: 

1.  John  Wentworth,  b.  21  Apr.,  1828;  a  manufacturer  of  pianos; 
mar.  24  Dec,  1862,  Rhoda  F.  B.  Hoyt,  b.  24  Oct.,  1842,  d.  20  Oct., 
1863,  dau.  of  Dr.  Enos  and  wife,  Grace  R.  Crosby;  resides  in  Boston. 

2.  Cyrus  Fogg,  b.  24  June,  1833,  in  Parsonsfield;  chemist;  M.  D.; 
LL.  D.;  prepared  for  college  at  common  schools  and  Parsonsfield 
academy,  graduated  from  Bowdoin  college,  class  of  1859;  studied 
medicine  at  the  Maine  Medical  school  from  which  he  graduated,  class 
of  1863;  in  same  year  was  appointed  to  a  chair  of  instruction  in 
Bowdoin  college;  continued  in  its  service  until  1873,  in  which  year 
he  accepted  the  Henry  professorship  of  physics  at  Princeton  university 
which  he  still  holds;  is  officer  and  member  of  several  scientific  asso- 
ciations and  is  author  of  text-book  on  physics  and  chemistry.  Mar. 
28  Dec,  1864,  Alice  A.  Briggs  of  Amesbury,  Mass.,  d.  Aug.  17, 
1885,  dau.  of  Richard  and  wife,  Roberts.     No  issue. 

3.  Susan  Elizabeth,  b.  ^o  Apr.,  1840;  mar.  Alfred  Brown  of 
Wolfboro,  N.  H. 

4.  Emily  Adelaide,  b.  22  Oct.,  1841;  lives  in  Parsonsfield. 

FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel,. 
John,  James,  James,  James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  in  Parsonsfield,  June  1,  1805;  was  a 
fanner  and  mechanic;  lived  in  Portland,  later  in  Boston;  died  June 
5,  1848;  married  in  1829,  Betsey  Barker,  born  March  1,  1805,  died 
October  26,  1880,  daughter  of  Ezra  and  wife,  Betsey  Seavey,  of  Lim- 
erick, Me.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Perry,  mar.  Anthony  Alvarez  of  Cuba;  d.  14  Nov.,  1880, 
in  Lawrence,  Mass.     No  issue. 

2.  Irene  Cole,  mar.  John  Delgado  of  Cuba;  d.  6  Dec,  1881,  in 
Lawrence,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Leonora,  who  mar.;   has  children;  lives  in  Cuba. 
2nd.     Charlotte  Elizabeth,  who  lives  in  Eawrence,  Mass. 

3.  Ann  Cartland,  b.  3  Mar.,  1835;  lives  in  Lawrence.  The  fol- 
lowing is  from  her  pen  in  letter  under  date  of  September,  1904. 
"How  much  is  rushed  into  a  lifetime!  Births  and  deaths,  hopes  and 
fears,  disappointments  and  successes — all  weave  the  warp  of  life; 
and  when  we  lay  it  down  few  mourn,  none  joy,  and  the  world  moves 
on.      'The  world  is  for  those  who  come  after.'  " 

4.  John  Brackett,  mar.  Emma  Fessenden  of  Boston,  Mass.;  d. 
19  Nov.,  1880,  in  Lawrence.     No  issue. 

5.  James  Edwin,  d.  at  the  age  of  seven  years,  in  Parsonsfield. 


2rt  I  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From  Family  Xo.   10.     Descent:     Anthony.  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  James,  Levi,  Silas. 
Silas  Braekett  was  born  February  8,    1809,  in  North  Berwick; 
was  a  carpenter;   resided  in  Bangor  where  he  died    May  24,    1877; 
married  Abigail  Richardson,  born  about  1816.     Issue: 
1.     Isaac  J.,  b.  about  1835;  was  lost  at  sea. 
-.     Boardman,  b.  about  1837;   is  dec. 

3.  Charles  H.,  b.  about  1840;  is  dec. 

4.  Mercy  A.,  b.  about  1844;  mar.  Lewis  Holt;   is  dec. 

5.  Charles. 

6.  Joel,  resides  in  Holden;  is  mar.  and  has  children. 

FAMILY     NO.    24. 

From  Family  No.  10.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  James,  Levi,  James. 
James  Braekett  was  born  January,  181 1 ,  in  North  Berwick;  was  a 
farmer;  lived  in  Bradford,  where  he  died  May  19,  1859;  married  Sep- 
tember 22,  1S33,  in  Lebanon,  Me.,  Sally  Gowin,  born  in  1813,  died 
June  15,  1886,  daughter  of  James  and  wife,  Dorothy  Pray,  of  Brad- 
ford.    Issue: 

1.  David,  b.  27  Nov.,  1834.     See  family  41. 

2.  Freeman,  b.  in  1840;  was  a  soldier  in  the  civil  war;  d.  in 
Salisbury  prison,  in  North  Carolina. 

3.  Ellen  M.,  b.  in  Oct.,  1844;  mar.  Greenleaf  Twombly;  home, 
in  Gardiner,  Me.  Children,  Emma  J.;  Herbert  F.;  Alma  M.;  Myra 
V. 

4.  Manly  G.,  b.  9  Dec,  1854.     See  family  42. 

FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From  Family  No.   10.     Descent:      Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  James,  Levi,  John. 

John  Braekett  was  born  in  North  Berwick,  December  21,  1815; 
was  a  farmer;  always  lived  in  North  Berwick;  died  January  1,  1883; 
married  in  Dec,  1840,  Olive  Fall,  born  May  4,  1820,  died  March  30, 
1873,  daughter  of  Humphrey  and  wife,  Sally  Abbott.     Issue: 

1.  Humphrey  F.,  b.  10  Apr.,  1841;  is  a  physician  and  locomotive 
engineer;  home,  in  Brighton,  Mass.;  mar.  25  June,  1870,  Martha 
A.  Jones,  b.  23  Aug.,  1841,  dau.  of  James,  Jr.,  and  wife,  Martha  E. 
Goodwin,  of  Lebanon,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Annie  J.,  b.  3  Sept.,  1873;   d.  28  July,  1894. 

1'.     David  H.,  b.  29  May,  1843.     See  family  43. 

3.  Clara  A.,  b.  1  Oct.,  1849;  mar.  Amos  F.  Bartlett;  d.  Feb.  13, 
1888,  in  Concord,  N.  H. 

4.  Ellen  A.,  b.  1  May,  1853;  mar.  Fred  L.  Pierce;  home,  in  Leb- 
anon, Me. 

5.  Mary  O.,  b.  5  Mar.,  1859;   d.  29  Oct.,  1874. 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  275 

FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  James,  Levi,  Levi  K. 

Levi  K.  Brackett  was  born  April  8,  1832,  in  North  Berwick;  is 
a  farmer  and  carpenter;  has  lived  in  South  Berwick;  home,  in  Ber- 
wick; supplied  a  great  deal  of  data  relative  to  the  descendants  of 
James  of  Berwick;  married  May  24,  1856,  Ann  B.  Given,  born  Sep- 
tember 6,  1830,  in  St.  Albans,  Me.,  is  deceased,  daughter  of  Sam- 
uel and  wife,  Hannah -.     Issue: 

1.  Carrie  M.,  b.  14  Apr.,  1859;  d.  29  Jan.,  1897. 

2.  Lizzie  A.,  b.   18  May,    i860;  mar.    15  Oct.,    1884,   M.    Elmer 
Roberts  of  Danville,  Va.,  who  d.  22  Sept.,  1893.     Issue: 

1st.     Verne  D.,  b.  28  Aug.,  1887,  in  Danville. 
2nd.     Milton  E.,  b.  26  Jan.,  1889,  in  Danville. 

3.  L.  Bert,  b.  13  July,  1863.     See  family  44. 

FAMILY    NO.    27. 

From  Family  No.  n.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  James,  Ebenezer,  Charles  L. 
Charles  L.  Brackett  was  born  April  17,  1843;  is  a  mechanic; 
home,  in  North  Berwick  village;  married  December  1,  1869,  Mary 
A.  Roberts,  born  May  6,  1841,  daughter  of  Aaron  H.  and  wife,  Jane 
Stone,  of  Berwick.     Issue: 

1.  Fannie  E.,  b.   21    Feb.,    1871;   mar.    25  Oct.,    1893,  John  W. 
Nowell,  who  d.  16  Dec,  1903-     Issue: 

1st.     Herbert  Brackett,  b.  30  June,  1896. 
2nd.     John  Roger,  b.  22  Oct.,  1898. 
3d.     Dorothy,  b.  27  Feb.,  1901. 
4th.     Olive  Esther,  b.  22  Mar.,  1903. 

2.  Fred  H.,   b.    18  June,    1875;  mar.   28   Nov.,  1891,   Lillian  G. 
Moulton;   home,  in  North  Berwick. 

3.  Arthur  A.,  b.    15  May,  .1877;  mar.   25   Nov.,    1903,    Alice  N. 
Littlefield;  home,  in  North  Berwick. 

4.  Leslie  L.,  b.  30  July,  1881. 

FAMILY    NO.    28. 

From  Family  No.   12.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Daniel,  Ivory,  Charles  T. 
Charles  Thurston  Brackett  was  born   April   25,    1815;  married 
Serena  Mclntyre;   he  died  November  6,  1861.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  Albert,  b.   about   1838;  is  dec;  mar.  Nancy  Dutton; 
had  one  child,  which  is  dec. 

2.  Mary  D.,  b.  about  1849;  mar.  John  Gowan,  who  is  dec;  had 
three  children,  all  of  whom  are  dec. 

FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From  Family  No.  12.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Daniel,  Ivory,  Nathaniel  W. 
Nathaniel  Willey  Brackett  was  born  November  14,  1816;  mar- 
ried Martha  McCausland;  he  died  January  12,  1863.     Issue: 


276  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Sarah  C,  b.  about  1844;  mar.  Thomas  Waterman;  had  Alfred. 

2.  George  L-,  b.  about  1848;  mar.  Effie  Partridge;  no  issue. 

3.  Frank  W.,  b.  about  1856;  mar.  Lizzie  Cook;  had  Carl. 

4.  Nathaniel  W.,  b.  about  1858;   mar.  Clara .    Children,  Roy 

and  Isa.     All  of  this  family  live  in  Brookline,  Mass. 

FAMILY  NO.  30. 
From  Family  No.  13.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  Samuel,  Jacob. 
Jacob  Brackett  was  born  November  5,  1800,  in  Berwick;  was  a 
farmer;  married  February  22,  1827,  Hannah  Chase  of  Lebanon,  born 
October  12,  1807,  died  May  6,  1890;  he  died  October  22,  1882. 
Issue: 

1.  Charles  C,  b.  5  Feb.,  1829.     See  family  45. 

2.  Irene  M.,  b.  23  Nov.,  1831,  in  Albion,  Kennebec co.,  Me.;  mar. 
Daniel  Brackett  (see  fam.  17). 

3.  Ansel  W.,  b.  10  Feb.,  1833,  in  Albion;  mar.  6  July,  1854, 
Frances  0.  Brackett  (see  fam.  33);  mar.  (2nd)  in  Mar.,  1862, 
Angelia  J.  Gerard  of  Detroit;   he  d.  19  Dec,  1888. 

4.  Martha  J.,  b.  16  Aug.,  1834,  in  Albion. 

5.  Hartwell  J.,  b.  2  June,  1836,  in  Albion;  mar.  28  Aug.,  1864, 
Mary  A.  Goodale  of  Canaan,  Me.,  b.  12  Apr.,  1843;  home,  in  Pitts- 
field,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Emma  Louise,  b.  8  Feb.,  1868;  d.  8  Mar.,  1868. 
2nd.     Maude  Elena,  b.  20  Aug.,  1873. 

FAMILY  NO.  31. 
From  Family  No.  13.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  Samuel,  Samuel. 
Samuel  Brackett  was  born  August  2,  1819.  In  1838,  he  com- 
menced working  for  a  Mr.  Fisher,  in  a  tanning  mill  in  the  state  of 
Maine,  and  continued  in  the  employ  of  members  of  the  Fisher  family 
for  nearly  sixty  j^ears.  In  the  forties  he  went  to  Trenton,  New  Jer- 
sey, where  he  has  since  continuously  resided.  The  firm  of  Fisher 
and  Norris  engaged  in  the  manufacture  of  anvils  and  tools;  he 
worked  for  the  firm  as  a  machinist,  and  later  was  employed  by  the 
firm  as  superintendent  of  its  property.  Though  he  has  met  with 
accidents  by  which  he  lost  some  of  his  toes  and  fingers,  he  is  spry 
and  active  in  his  old  age.  For  over  a  quarter  of  a  century  he  held 
the  office  of  recorder  in  Palestine  commander)-,  No.  4,  Knights  Tem- 
plars. He  married  April  3,  1839,  Abigail  Judkins,  born  March  10, 
1821,  died  March  24,  i860,  daughter  of  Enoch  P.  and  wife,  Abigail 
Shaw;  married  (2nd)  November  12,  1861,  Adaline  B.  Shaw,  born 
May  14,  1833,  daughter  of  Benjamin  and  wife,  Martha  Harvey. 
Issue: 

1.  Arabella  M.,  b.  29  Apr.,  1840;  mar.  in  July,  1858,  James  B. 
Clugston;  home,  in  Trenton,  N.  J.  Children,  Alice  J.;  John  C; 
Adaline;   Miriam;  Norris;  Howard;  Cora. 

2.  Sarah  H.,  b.  28  June,  1842;  d.  5  Mar.,  1906;  mar.  7  Feb., 
1859,  Alfred  Sweeney,  b.  31  Jan.,  1837,  son  of  Edward  and  wife, 
Margaret  Skillman,  of  Princeton,  N.  J.,  manufacturer  of  iron  and 
steel;  have  resided  in  Trenton,  Philadelphia,  Nashua;  home,  in 
Brooklyn.     Issue: 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  277 

1st.     Alfred  L.,  b.   13  June,    i860;  mar.  30  June,   1884,   Lizzie 
Juloff;  home,  in  Libert}-,  N.  Y.      Issue: 

I.  S.  Alfred,  b.  8  Aug.,  1887. 

II.  Thomas,  b.  29  May,  1890. 

III.  Hattie  A.,  b.  18  Jan.,  1892. 

IV.  Edward  S.,  b.  4  Apr.,  1895. 

2nd.     Abigail   B.,    b.    31   July,    1861;   mar.    in    1892,    David  C. 
Thompson;  home,  in  Brooklyn.     Issue: 

I.  Sarah  M.,  b.  26  Feb.,  1893. 

II.  Marion  H.,  b.  25  Mar.,  1897. 

3d.     Ella  M.,  b.  26  Apr.,  1864;  d.  27  May,  1883. 
4th.     Harriet  T.,  b.  23  Apr.,  1865;   mar.  4  Sept.,  1899,  Wm.  N. 
Hardy. 

5th.     Angelette  H.,  b.  29  July,  1867. 

3.  Ellen  R.,  b.  12  Dec,  1843;  d.  3  Mar.,  1848. 

4.  Frances  A.,  b.  19  Feb.,  1846;  mar.  30  May,  1872,  James  R. 
Falion,  b.  14  Sept.,  1845,  son  of  Marcus  and  wife,  Mary  Lewis,  of 
Brooklyn;   is  a  steam  pilot;  home,  in  Brooklyn.     Issue: 

1st.     Margaret  L.,  b.  4  Mar.,  1873;  mar.  7  June,   1893,  William 
A.  Kloeppel;  home,  in  Brooklyn. 

2nd.     Sarah  S.,  b.  19  Feb.,  1875;  d.  25  Oct.,  1876. 
3d.     Samuel  B.,  b.  30  Apr.,  1878. 
4th.     George  M.,  b.  16  Dec,  1882. 

5.  Lydia  L-,  b.  19  Mar.,  1849;  mar.  9  Sept.,  1869,  Theodore  L. 
Cory,  b.  31  Mar.,  1S44,  son  of  Silas  D.  and  wife,  Julia  Stiles,  of  Mor- 
ristown,  N.  J.;   is  a  bookkeeper;   home,  in  Hutchinson,  Kan.     Issue: 

1st.     Grace  B.,  b.  18  Oct.,  1870;  d.  19  Mar.,  1874. 
2nd.      Lewis   B.,   b.    16  Feb.,    1872;  mar.   19  Sept.,  1895,  Nellie 
George;   have  son,  George  L.,  b.  7  June,  1898. 
3d.     Emma,  b.  28  Feb.,  1874. 
4th.     Samuel  B.,  b.  25  Jan.,  1876. 
5th.     Benjamin  J.,  b.  26  Feb.,  1881. 
6th.     Abbie  J.,  b.  1  Oct.,  1886. 
7th.     Zenita  E.,  b.  19  Apr.,  1891. 

6.  Abigail  J.,  b.  21  Jan.,  i860;  d.  24  June,  i860. 

7.  Samuel  Shaw,  b.  11  May,  1863;  d.  14  May,  1863. 

8.  Pauline  S.,  b.  3  Mar.,  1868;   home,  in  Trenton,  N.  J. 

FAMILY    NO.    32. 

From  Family  No.  13.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  Samuel,  William. 
William  Brackett  was  born  August  6,  1826,  in  Berwick,  Me.;  is 
a  machinist;  has  lived  in  Lowell,  Mass.;  home,  in  Trenton,  N.  J.; 
married  February  6,  1854,  Sarah  E.  Wentworth,  born  September  6, 
1833,  died  February  14,  1885,  daughter  of  Freeman  P.,  of  Boston 
and  wife,  Rebecca  Tinkham,  of  Lowell,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  William  H.,  b.  in  1856;  d.  in  1858. 

2.  Edward  Hall,  b.  8  Feb.,  i860;  mar.  5  June,  18S3,  Clara  Bunt- 
ing; d.  22  Apr.,  1891.     Issue: 

1st.     William  Hall,  b.  3  May,  1884. 
2nd.     Loanthe  Corey,  b.  16  Dec,  1890. 

3.  Harry  Wentworth,  b.  11  Jan.,  1864;  d.  15  June,  1889. 


278  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

4.  Lydia  Jane,  b.  in  1866;   d.  in  1867. 

5.  Emma  Porter,  b.  10  Sept.,  1868;  mar.  22  Oct.,  1891,  David 
Mackey;  home,  in  Trenton,  N.  J.     Issue: 

1st.     Lelia  Elizabeth,  b.  2  May,  1893;  d.  21  Dec.,  1898. 
2nd.     Norman  Howell,  b.  18  June,  1896. 

6.  Stella  Da  Moyne,  b.  16  Dec,  1872;  d.  9  Mar.,  1874. 

FAMILY    NO.    33. 

From  Family  No.  14.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  Miles,  Jr.,  Hiram. 
Hiram  Brackett  was  born  in    1803,  in   Berwick;    was  a  farmer; 
home,  in  Detroit,  Somerset  county,  Me.,  where  he  died;   married  in 
1827,  Melinda  Clements,  born  in  1810.      Issue: 

1.  Mary  C,  b.  in  1827,  in  North  Berwick;  d.  in  1846. 

2.  Susan  A.  S.,  b.  in  1829,  in  Detroit,  Me.;  unmar.  in  1880. 

3.  Sarah    E.,    b.    in   1832;  mar.  Daniel  Keniston.     Issue: 

1st.     Ernest  Charles,  b.  in  1853;  mar.  in  1878,  Carrie  F.  Ostrum 

of  Omaha,  Neb.     Children,  Arthur  E.;  Alfred  H.;  Fannie;  Gertrude. 

2nd.     Francis  Ansel,  b.  in  1857;   mar.  in  1887,  Ida  May  Hoffman. 

4.  Francis  Olive,  b.  in  1834;  mar.  Ansel  W.  Brackett  (see  fam. 
30);  she  d.  25  Sept.,  1857.  Child  d.  at  time  of  the  mother's  death. 
On  the  tombstone  at  their  grave,  is  inscribed — 

"A  friend,  a  wife,  a  mother  dear, 
With  her  sweet  babe  lies  buried  here." 
0.     Orminda  J.,  b.  in  1835;   never  mar.;  d.  in  1883. 

6.  Dorothy  A.,  b.  in  1837;  mar.  in  1862,  G.  H.  Heath;  home,  in 
West  Medford.     Issue: 

1st.     Alban  Roscoe,  b.  in  1863. 

2nd.  George  Lincoln,  b.  in  1866;  mar.  in  1891,  Carrie  A.  Shep- 
herd; had  Violet  and  Gardner. 

3d.     Grace  May,  b.  in  1867. 

4th.  Bertel  Waldron,  b.  in  1868;  mar.  in  1893,  Minnie  Ray; 
home,  in  Rosendale,  Mass.;  had  Dorothy,  b.  in  1894;  Katharine,  b. 
in  1899. 

7.  Ellen  C,  b.  in  1839. 

8.  Roxanna,  b.  in  1841;  mar.  in  1863,  E.  G.  Lord.     Issue: 
1st.     Harry,  b.  in  1865;  d.  in  1865. 

2nd.     Eme  Evangeline,  b.  in  1867. 

9.  Hiram  Roscoe,  b.  26  May,  1841.     See  family  46. 

10.  Almira  L-,  b.  in  1844;  mar.  in  1871,  C.  W.Clement;  d.  in  1879. 

11.  Miriam  C:  b.  in  1847;   died  in  1849. 

FAMILY    NO.    34. 

From  Family  No.   14.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  Miles,  Jr.,  Charles  O. 
Charles  O.  Brackett  was  born  January   21,    1823,    in   Berwick; 
lived  in  Detroit,   Me.,  where  he  died  May   15,    1899;   was  a  farmer; 
married  February  23,  1846,  Judith  Grant,  born  January  4,  1825,  died 

June  30,  1895,  daughter  of  David  and  wife,  ,  of  Shapleigh,  Me. 

Issue: 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  279 

1.  Arthur  Francisco,  b.  6  Feb.,  1851;  mar.  18  Dec,  1875,  Edwina 
A.  Berry,  b.  11  May,  1855,  dau.  of  Stephen  and  wife,  Lucy  M.  Foss, 
of  Machias,  Me.;  is  superintendent  of  a  cotton  mill  in  Riverport,  R.  I. 
Issue: 

1st.     A.  Chester,  b.  24  Nov.,  1S86. 

2.  Clarence  C,  b.  13  May,  1856. 

3.  Charles  A.,  b.  1  July,  i860;  d.  1  Aug.,  1861. 

FAMILY    NO.    35. 

From  Family  No.   15.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  John,  Ivory. 

Ivory  Brackett  was  born  August  30,  181 1;  was  a  farmer;  lived 
in  Palmyra  where  he  died  at  an  advanced  age;  was  much  reverenced 
by  friends  and  relatives  and  a  favorite  with  all  who  knew  him;  he 
married  November  23,  1834,  Mary  Gowen,  born  October  5,  1812; 
died  May  29,  1865.     Issue: 

1.  John  O.,  b.  28  Jan.,  1836;  lived  in  Benton,  Me.;  served  in  the 
civil  war  as  major  of  22nd  Maine  vol.  inf.,  from  1  Dec,  1862,  to 
14  Aug.,  1863;   mar.  Lucinda  Pool;  d.  2  Apr.,  1874. 

2.  Susan  A.,  b.  9  Nov.,  1838;  home,  in  Palmyra. 

3.  Isaac  S.,  b.  17  Sept.,  1840;  d.  in  Sept.,  1853. 

4.  George  O.,  b.  30  Jan.,  1843;  never  mar.;  d.31  July,  1885. 

5.  Hollis  \Y..  b.  13  Aug.,  [844;  mar.  Isabelle  -  — ,  b.  about 
1842.     Issue: 

1st.     Merton  L..  b.  in  1876. 
2nd.     Ivory  L.,  b.  in  1878. 

6.  Charleston  G.,  b.  25  Aug.,  1850;  mar.  22  Sept.,  1888,  Lizzie 
Patten,  b.  in  i860.     Issue: 

1st.     Sheldon  A.,  b.  4  Oct.,  1889. 
2nd.      Edna  S.,  b.  5  Mar.,  1892. 

FAMILY    NO.   36. 

From  Family  No.  16.       Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  David,  Charles  E. 
Charles  E.   Brackett  was  born  November  2,    1828;    home  is  in 
Sanbornville,   N.  H.;     married  June  28,  1861,    Lizzie  Wiggin,   born 
December  1,  1835;   daughter  of  Willard.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  F.,  b.  27  Apr.,  1862;  mar.  15  Jan.,  1881,  James  F.  Tuck- 
er, b.  3  Apr.,  1855,  son  of  James  and  wife,  Mary  E.  Hale,  of  Ames- 
bury,  Mass.;  is  a  locomotive  engineer;  home,  in  Sanbornville.     Issue: 

1st.     Charles  Hall,  b.  27  Nov.,  1882. 
2nd.     Grover  Cleveland,  b.  29  July,  1884. 
3d.     James  Carroll,  b.  28  Apr.,  1892. 
tth.     Willard  Brackett,  b.  30  May,  1894. 
5th.     Morris  Anthony,  b.  13  June,  1897. 

2.  Jane  E.,  b.  1  Feb.,  1864;  mar.  30  June,  1892,  Edwin  A.  Hines, 
b.  1  May,  1865.  son  of  William  L.  and  wife,  Addie  A.  Vincent,  of 
Concord,  N.  H. 

3.  Herbert  C,  b.  7  Nov.,  1866;  mar.  25  Dec,  1901,  Viola  E. 
Stevens,  dau.  of  Warren. 


280  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

4.  William  F.,  b.  i  Mar.,  1869;  mar.  24  Oct.,  1895,  Mary  Strout 
Sweet,  dau.  of  Alfred  L.  and  wife,  Almira  L,.  Strout,  of  North  Con- 
way; lives  in  North  Conway;  is  a  baggage  master.     Issue: 

1st.     Hazel  May,  b.  12  Oct.,  1896. 
2nd.      Marian,  b.  31  Mar.,  1898. 

5.  John  E.,  b.  7  June,  1871;  mar.  22  Dec,  1894,  Mary  E.  Kenney, 
dau.  of  Martin  and  wife,  Man*  A.  McShea,  of  Boston;  home,  in  San- 
bornville,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1st.     Helen  M.,  b.  3  x\pr.,  1895. 
2nd.     Estella  F.,  b.  3  May,  1897. 
G.     Frank  J.,  b.  1  Sept.,  1873. 

7.  George  A.,  b.  18  Sept.,  1874. 

8.  Belle,  b.  14  Oct.,  1877;  mar.  14  Oct.,  1897,  Marshall  E. 
Knight,  son  of  Gilman  and  wife,  Mary  C.  Bride,  of  Salmon  Falls,  N. 
H.;   he  is  a  telegrapher;  home,  in  Sanbornville,  N.  H. 

9.  Harry  L,.,  b.  5  Nov.,  1879. 

10.  Flora  P.,  b.  12  Apr.,  1881. 

FAMILY    NO.    37. 

From  Family  No.  16.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  David,  Asa  M. 
Asa  M.  Brackett  was  born  December  14,  1839;  is  a  merchant; 
home,  in  Wakefield,  N.  H.;  was  selectman  in  1878,  1879  and  1880; 
representative  in  1870  and  1871;  state  senator  in  1885  and  1886,  and 
later  a  member  of  the  school  board;  from  1886  to  July  6,  1894,  was 
clerk  in  the  Navy  Department;  supplied  data  relative  to  descendants 
of  his  grandfather,  for  this  history.  Married  February  14,  1864, 
Rowena  D.  Farnham,  born  October  17,  1832,  died  February  6,  1884, 
daughter  of  Nathan  and  wife,  Sally  Roberts;  married  (2nd)  Septem- 
ber, 1886,  Alma  E.  Kenerson,  born  October  17,  1847,  died  April  25, 
1901,  daughter  of  Job  and  wife,  Rhoda  W.  Head.     Issue: 

1.  Ernest  E.,  b.  6  June,  1865;  d.  26  Sept.,  1865. 

2.  Cecil  A.,  b.  30  Sept.,  1866. 

3.  Forris  L.,  b.  26  May,  1868. 

4.  Ira  E.,  b.  12  Feb.,  1888. 

FAMILY    NO.    38. 

From  Family  No.  17.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas.  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Nathan,  Nathan,  Benjamin. 
Benjamin  Brackett  was  born  March  16,  1829,  in  Clinton,  Me., 
where  he  now  lives;  is  a  farmer;  married  February  18,  1857,  Anne 
Clifford,  born  April  23,  1840,  died  in  October,  1884,  daughter  of 
Rufus  and  wife,  Sarah  Dudley,  of  Bangor,  Me.;  married  (2nd)  in 
March,  1887,  Phebe  Dixon,  born  about  1851,  died  in  December,  1899, 
daughter  of  Jediah  and  wife,  Jane  Gerald,  of  Clinton.     Issue: 

1.  Eliza,  b.  14  Mar.,  1858;  d.  3  Aug.,  1867. 

2.  Daniel,  b.  17  May,  1859;  mar.  Anna  Bean;  home,  in  Clinton. 
Issue: 

1st.     Lora,  b.  23  July,  1891. 
2nd.     Miriam,  b.  3  Dec,  1893. 
3d.     Walter,  b.  8  Mar.,  1897. 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  281 

3.  Miriam,  b.  30  Oct..  1861;  d.  14  Feb.,  1865. 

4.  Nathan,  b.  30  Dec,    1862;  mar.  Dora  Galusha;  home,  in  Clin- 

ton.    Issue: 
1st.     Mildreth,  b.  30  July,  1885. 
2nd.     Erie,  b.  4  Feb.,  1888. 
3d.     Leola,  b.  22  June,  1890. 
4th.     Evelyn,  b.  11  Aug.,  1893. 
5th.     Geneva,  b.  12  Nov.,  1895. 

5.  Miriam,  b.  13  Nov.,  1865;   d.  26  Apr.,  1867. 

'">.     Prescott,  b.  4  Jan.,  1867;  mar.  Blanch  Morrill;   home,  in  China, 
Me.     Issue: 
1st.     Florence  M.,  b.  18  Feb.,  1899. 

7.  Everett,  b.  21  Dec,  1867;  d.  15  Feb.,  1875. 

8.  Roscoe,  b.  12  Oct.,  1873;  is  dec. 

9.  Bertha,  b.    29    Aug.,    1875;    mar.  James  Ddnelson;  home,    in 

Miles  city,  Montana. 

10.  Ivory,  b.  13  Nov.,  1877;   home,  in  Miles  city,  Montana. 

FAMILY    NO.    39. 

From  Family  No.  18.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Nathan,  John,  Nathan. 

Nathan  Brackett  was  born  March  10,  1815,  in  what  is  now  the 
town  of  Acton,  Me.:  died  December  22,  1869;  married  October  25, 
1835,  Mary  Hurd,  born  April  28,  1811,  died  June  27,  1875,  daughter 
of Hurd  and  wife,  Hannah  Skillings.     Issue: 

1.  John  H.,  b.  13  May,  1837.     See  family  47. 

2.  Charles  N.,  b.  18  June,  1838.     See  family  48. 

3.  Dorcas  Jane,   b.   24  Mar.,    1840:    mar.  Richard  Goding;   both 
are  dec;  home  was  in  Alfred.  Me. 

I.  Mary  Abbie,  1).  15  June,  1843;  home,  in  West  Manchester,  Mass. 

.">.  Benjamin  F.,  b.  25  Apr.,  1847.     See  family  49. 

(').  Hannah  Frances,  b.  27  July,  1849;  home,  in  Roxbury,  Mass. 

7.  Louise  Ellen,  b.  12  Feb.,  1853;  d.  3  Dec,  1854. 

8.  Infant  dau.,  b.  17  Jan.,  1857;  d.  same  day. 


FAMILY    NO.    40. 

From  Family  No.  19.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Nathan,  James  H.,  Franklin  H. 
Franklin  H.  Brackett  was  born  July  16,  1836,  in  Windham,  Me.; 
is  a  mechanic;  lives  in  Portland;  married  March  20,  1871,  Mary  A. 
Chandler,  born  July  4,  1S53,  daughter  of  John  W.  and  wife,  Susan 
Cook,  of  Portland.     Issue: 

1.  Joseph  B.,  b.  25  Jan.,  1872. 

2.  Albert  W.,  b.   3  May,    1874;  mar.   2  May,    1897,  Kate   . 

Issue: 

1st.     Gladys  M.,  b.  13  Mar.,  1898. 

3.  Mary  E.,  b.  19  Apr.,  1881. 


282  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


TENTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY   NO.    41. 

From  Family  No.  24.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  James,  Levi,  James,  David. 
David  Brackett  was  born  November  27,  1834,  in  Bradford;  is  a 
tanner;  lives  in  Cambridge,  Mass.;  married  February  3,  1855,  Mary 
L.  Stearns,  who  died  July  7,  1856;  married  (2nd)  April  3,  1861, 
Martha  E.  Twombly,  born  July  16,  1842,  daughter  of  Joseph  H„ 
and  wife,  Abigail  Beal,  of  Bradford,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  18  Feb.,  1857;  mar.  17  June,  1886,  William 
B.  Adams;  home,. in  Lowell,  Mass.     No  issue. 

2.  Clara  Ann,   b.  12  Sept.,    1863;  mar.  11  Jan.,    1883,   Everett  L. 
Perry;   home,  in  Newton,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Eiston  E.,  b.  20  Jan.,  1884. 

3.  Abbie  Frances,  b.  24  Dec,  1865;  d.  19  Apr.,  1867. 

4.  Gertrude  May,  b.   28  Feb.,   1868;   mar.   13  Feb.,    1886,  F.  H. 
Davis;   d.  15  June,  1899.     Issue: 

1st.     L.  Pearl,  b.  3  May,  1887. 

2nd.     Fred  Lawrence,  b.  29  Dec,  1889. 

3d.     Roy  Edmond,  b.  16  Oct,,  1897. 

5.  Minnie  Blanche,  b.  9  Mar.,  1870;  mar.  12  Nov.,    1892,  Charles 
E.  Davis;  home,  in  Cambridge. 

FAMILY    NO.    42. 

From  Family  No.  24.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  James,  Eevi,  James,  Manly  G. 
Manly  G.  Brackett  was  born  December  9,  1854,  in  Bradford, 
Me.;  jemoved  to  Milo,  Me.;  is  a  retailer,  and  agent  for  American 
Express  company,  in  Milo;  was  town  clerk  from  March,  1894,  to 
March,  1902;  married  October  7,  1876,  Ida  M.  Lib  by,  born  Decem- 
ber 20,  1859,  daughter  of  Raymond  Libby  and  wife,  Eliza  A.  Hall. 
Issue: 

1.  Elwood  M.,  b.   8  June,    1879;  mar.   26  Nov.,    1902,   Lillie  M. 
Fabian;  home,  in  Milo.     Issue: 

1st.     Madeline,  b.  19  Aug.,  1903. 

2.  Virginia  M.,  b.  3  Jan.,  1896. 

FAMILY    NO.    43. 

From  Family  No.  25.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel.  Sam- 
uel, John,  James,  Levi,  John,  David  H. 
David  H.  Brackett  was  born  May  29,  1843,  in  North  Berwick, 
on  the  farm  which  he  owns  and  lives,  and  where  his  great-grand- 
father, James  Brackett,  settled;  he  served  in  the  Union  army  during 
the  civil  war,  in  company  B,  27th  Maine  volunteer  infantry;  enlisted 
September  8,  1862,  discharged  July  17,  1863;  served  as  selectman 
from  1886  to   1891,   again  in  1894  and  subsequently;  has  held  other 


JOHN,    OF    BERWICK  283 

town  offices;  married  June  30,  1869,  Alice  A.  Chase,  born  August  6, 
1844,  daughter  of  Charles  and  wife,  Alice  Fibby,  of  Sanford,  Me. 
Issue: 

1.  Alice  O.,  b.  20  Apr.,  1872;  mar.  28  June,  1899,  Feon  Hayes; 
home,  in  North  Berwick.     Issue: 

1st.     Marjosie,  b.  28  Mar.,  1900. 

2.  Orrin  J.,  b.  20  Aug.,  1875;  home,  in  North  Berwick. 

3.  John  D.,  b.  1  Nov.,  1882. 

FAMILY    NO.    44. 

From  Family  No.  26.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  James,  Fevi,  LeviK.,  F-  Bert. 

F.  Bert  Brackett  was  born  July  13,  1863,  in  North  Berwick; 
married  December  23,  1885,  Mary  F.  Jones  of  F,ynn,  Mass.;  home,  in 
Fynn.     Issue: 

1.  Alfred  B.,  b.  3  Nov.,  1886. 

2.  Chester  R.,  b.  15  Apr.,  1888. 

3.  Carrie  Pearl,  b.  1  Apr.,  1892. 

FAMILY    NO.    45. 

From  Family  No.  30.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  Samuel,  Jacob,  Charles  C. 
Charles  C.  Brackett  was  born  February  5,  1829,  in  Albion,  Me.; 
is  a  farmer;  lives  in  Newport,  Me.;  married  March  19,  1863,  Sarah  J. 
Atwell,  born  June  25,  1834,  daughter  of  Page  and  wife,  Betsey 
Nevens.     Issue: 

1.  Willie,  b.  7  Feb.,  1864;  mar.  (1st)  Julia  Krause;  (2nd)  Mar- 
garet Satardie;   home,  in  Chicago;  is  in  employ  of  N.  W.  R.  R.  Co. 

2.  Frank  C,  b.  9  June,  1866;  mar.  in  1892,  Clara  Judkins:  d.  14 
Nov..  1896.     Issue: 

1st.     Pauline,  b.  16  Oct.,  1893. 

3.  Carrie  M.,  b.  22  Sept.,  1871;  d.  3  Mar.,  1878. 

4.  Ethel  M.,  b.  3  Aug.,  1873;  a  school  teacher. 

5.  Ralph  P.,  b.  1  July,  1878;  a  photographer. 

FAMILY    NO.    46. 

From  Family  No.  33.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Miles,  Miles,  Jr.,  Hiram,  Hiram  R. 
Hiram  Roscoe  Brackett  was  born  May  26,  1841;  was  a  farmer  in 
Detroit,  Me.,  where  he  died  October  1,  1898;  served  in  civil  war,  in 
company  A,  1 6th  Maine  volunteer  infantry;  enlisted  August  18,  1862; 
discharged  March  30,  1865;  married  February  25,  1868,  Mary  C. 
Bowman,  born  March  8,  1845,  died  August  12,  1897,  daughter  of 
Thomas  and  wife,  Mary  Ann  Ross,  of  Detroit,  Me.,  formerly  of  Sid- 
ney, Me.     Issue: 

1.  Bertrand  R.,  b.  23  May,  1869;  mar.  9  Nov.,  1892,  Addie  E. 
Worcester,  b.  15  Nov.,  1870,  dau.  of  John  B.  and  wife,  Elinor  M. 
Wheeler,  of  Etna,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Bessie  May,  b.  1  Aug.,  1894. 

2.  Susie  M.,  b.  1  July,  1872;  home,  in  Boston. 


284  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

3.  Percy  Wentworth,  b.  30  Apr.,  1874;  home,  in  Westport,  Mass. 

4.  Agnes  Myra,  b.  9  Oct.,  1875;  d.  20  June,  1899. 

5.  Edward  Marion,  b.  3  Oct.,  1884;  home,  in  Newport. 

FAMILY    NO.    47. 

From  Family  No.  39.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Nathan,  John,  Nathan.  John  H. 

John  H.  Brackett  was  born  May  13,  1837,  in  Acton,  Me.;  is  a 
wool-carder;  home,  in  Dover,  N.  H.;  married  May  13,  1858,  Olive  A. 
Eary,  born  January  3,  1835,  died  December  25,  1881,  daughter  of 
John  and  wife,  Hannah  Eary,  of  Kennebunk,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Walter  N.,  b.  4  Mar.,    1859;   home,  in  Wakefield.   N.  H.;  is 
mar.;   has  son  John. 

2.  Frank  E.,  b.  8  July,    1861;   home,  in  Dover,   N.   H.;  is  mar.; 
has  son  Els  worth. 

3.  Ellen  H.,  b.    19  June,    1863;  mar.  Toby;  home,  in  Dorchester, 
Mass.     Children,  Herbert;  Helen;   Marguerite. 

4.  Charles  J.,   b.   22  Feb.,    1866;    is  mar.;  home,    in    Wakefield, 
N.  H. 

FAMILY  NO.    48. 

From  Family  No.  39.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Nathan,  John,  Nathan,  Charles  N. 

Charles  Nathan  Brackett  was  born  June  18,  1838,  in  Acton,  Me.; 
married  November  24,    1868,   Mary  Margaret  Hurd,  born  March  20, 

1843,  in  Newfield,  Me.,  died  July  6,1882,  daughter  of Hurd  and 

wife,   Mary  Peaslie,  of  Dover,   N.   H.;  lived  in  Acton:  is  deceased. 
Issue: 

1.  Mary  Ellen,  b.  6  Mar.,    1870;    teacher  in   Lyman   school   for 
boys,  in  Westboro,  Mass. 

2.  Nathan  Feruald,  b.  4  Apr.,  1872;  d.  24  Mar.,  1883. 

3.  Minnie  Belle,  b.   14  Apr.,    1875;  mar.   3  Nov.,    1896,   Wm.  F. 
Spry;  home,  in  West  Manchester,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Ethel  Charlotte,  b.  26  Nov.,  1897. 

FAMILY    NO.    49. 

From  Family  No.  39.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Nathan,  John,  Nathan,  Benjamin  F. 

Benjamin  Franklin  Brackett  was  born  April  25,  1847,  in  Acton, 
Me.;  is  a  farmer  and  stock  raiser;  home,  near  Pawnee  city,  Neb.; 
married  April  4,  1872,  Annie  E.  Eary,  born  November  10,  1846, 
daughter  of  Stephen  and  wife,  Mary  Wentworth,  of  South  Acton, 
Me.     Issue: 

1.  Fred  L>,  b.  8  Mar.,  1873;  mar.  14  Mar.,  1894,  Eydia  A.  Jones; 
home,  in  Pawnee  city,  Neb. 

2.  Elmer  E.,  b.  22  Nov.,  1876. 

3.  Nathan  E.,  b.  7  Nov.,  1883;  d.  23  Feb.,  1884. 

4.  Ned.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1887;  d.  21  July,  1887. 


ISAAC,    OF    BERWICK  285 


DIVISION   NO.   9. 


ISAAC    BRACKETT    OF    BERWICK    AND    HIS 
DESCENDANTS. 


SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    1. 


From  Chapter  VIII.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Isaac. 

Isaac  Brackett,  the  second  son  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Sarah  Emery, 
was  born  October  7,  1722,  in  Berwick;  baptized  January  21,  1728;  a 
carpenter  and  farmer;  an  active,  energetic  man,  and  a  staunch  sup- 
porter of  the  cause  of  the  colonists  in  their  struggle  for  independence. 
When,  on  July  6,  1775,  the  committee  of  safety  for  Portsmouth 
ordered  Captain  James  Osgood  to  enlist  twenty  effective  soldiers,  the 
muster  roll  of  his  company  shows  that  Isaac  Brackett  enlisted  July 
22,  1775,  his  occupation  a  carpenter,  and  his  age  forty-six  years, 
although  at  the  time  he  was  fifty-three  years  old.  He  died  at  the 
comparatively  early  age  of  fifty-eight  years;  all  of  his  brothers  sur- 
vived him  for  more  than  a  score  of  years;  his  death  occurred  Jan- 
uary 22,  1780.  Married  November  17,  1748,  Mary  Hambleton 
(Hamilton)  of  Berwick,  one  of  the  original  members  of  the  Second 
church  there;  was  baptized  May  4,  1727,  daughter  of  Gabriel;  he 
was  baptized  September  6.  1713.  married  Margaret  Hodsdon,  will 
dated  June  7,    1776,  proven  September  6,   1783,  was  son  of  Gabriel; 

he  was  born  about   1679,  married  Mary ,  died  about   1730.     A 

David  Hamilton,  a  Scotchman,  came  to  America  in  1651,  as  a  poli- 
tical prisoner,  married  in  1662,  Anna  Jackson,  and  lived  in  what  is 
now  Rollinsford,  N.  H.;  mentioned  as  deceased  in  1689,  when  the 
selectmen  of  Dover  granted  twenty  acres  of  land  to  Thomas  Potts  for 
keeping  and  maintaining  David  Hamilton,  oldest  son  of  David  Ham- 
ilton, the  whole  term  of  his  life. 

Margaret  Hodsdon  was  baptized  April  17,  1716,  daughter  of 
Joseph;  he  married  Margaret  Goodwin,  was  son  of  Benoni  Hodsdon, 
who  married  Abigail  Curtis,  daughter  of  Thomas  and  wife,  Elizabeth. 

Margaret  Goodwin  was  daughter  of  Daniel;  he  was  born  in  1656, 
married  December  17,  1682,  Amy  Thompson,  died  in  Berwick,  in 
April,  1726,  was  son  of  Daniel;  he  was  of  Kittery,  married  Margaret 
Spencer,  was  son  of  Daniel;  he  was  of  Oxford,  Eng.,  one  of  the 
founders  of  the  church  of  South  Berwick  in  1702,  died  about  17 13, 
married  Dorothy  Barker. 

Amy  Thompson  was  daughter  of  Miles,  the  immigrant,  and  wife, 
Ann.  Margaret  Spencer  was  daughter  of  Thomas;  he  was  born  in 
England,  in  1696,  came  to  America  in  1630,  settled  in  South  Ber- 
wick, died  December  15,  1681,  married  Patience  Chadbourne;  she 
died  in  1683,  was,  doubtless,  daughter  of  William  and  wife,  Mary, 
who  was  in  the  employ  of  Mason,  and  came  to  Portsmouth  as  early 
as  1634  (for  additional  see  div.  8,  fam.  8).     Issue: 


280  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Reuben,  bapt.  24  Nov.,  1749;   no  further  record. 

2.  Amy,  bapt.  3  Feb.,  1751;   d.  young. 

3.  Amy,  bapt.  4  Nov.,  1755;  mar.  10  Nov.,  1774,  Richard 
Yeaton. 

4.  Mary,  bapt.  26  Feb.,    1758;  mar.  1  June,  1755,   Nathan  Knox. 

5.  Sarah,  bapt.  6  June,  1762. 

6.  Isaac,  b.  30  Mar.,  1762.     See  family  2. 

7.  Samuel,  bapt.  29  June,  1766;  mar.  17  Feb.,  1791,  Adnah 
Hooper;  will  dated  8  May,  1843;  lived  in  Berwick;  was  a  farmer; 
his  widow  survived  him  several  years.     No  issue. 


SEVENTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Isaac, Isaac. 

Isaac  Brackett  was  born  in  Berwick,  Me.,  March  30,  1762; 
baptized  April  22,  1764;  moved  to  Milton,  N.  H.;  thence  to  Sterling, 
Vt.,  where  he  died  November  5,  1848;  was  a  farmer;  married  March 
6,  1788,  Priscilla  Jones,  born  November  25,  1771,  in  Milton,  N.  H., 
died  September  6,  1866.     Issue: 

1.  Mary,  b.  22  May,  1789,  in  York,  Me.;  mar.  9  Apr.,  1809, 
David  Davis;  moved  to  Stowe,  Yt.,  in  1823,  on  a  farm;  he  d.  in 
Feb.,  1865;  her  death  occurred  in  Stowe,  in  Oct.,  1879,  in  the  91st 
year  of  her  age.     Issue: 

1st.     Hiram,  who  d.  young. 

2nd.     Polly,  b.  12  Jan.,  1812;  mar.  Wilkins;   d.  19  Apr.,  1899. 

3d.     Betsey,  b.  6  Feb.,  1814;  mar.  Bennett;  d.  7  Oct.,  1898. 

4th.     David,  b.  15  Jan.,  1816;  d.  in  Mar..  1887. 

5th.     Priscilla,  b.  in  Apr.,   18 19;  mar.  Taylor;   d.  in  Oct.,    1879. 

2.  Isaac,  b.  16  July,  1791.     See  family  3. 

3.  Sally,  b.  26  Oct.,  1792,  in  Milton,  N.  H.;  mar.  Luce;  d.  4  Oct.. 
1821. 

4.  Betsey,  b.  5  Nov.,  1794,  in  Milton;  d.  5  Apr.,  1816. 

5.  Priscilla,  b.  17  Oct.,  1796,  in  Milton;  d.  7  Oct.,  1819. 

6.  Rebecca,  b.  14  Nov.,  1798,  in  Milton;  is  dec. 

7.  Asenath,  b.  4  Mar.,  1801:  mar.  3  Oct.,  1821,  Samuel  L,.  San- 
born; d.  in  Dec,  1839. 

8.  Amy,  b.  11  May,  1803;  mar.  Joseph  Pike,  b.  10  Apr.,  1797,  d. 
10  Nov.,  1865;  she  d.  2  Sept.,  1890.     Issue: 

1st.  Caroline  M.  D.,  b.  19  Jan.,  1837;  mar.  Cyrus  Hubbard, 
who  d.  30  June,  1898;  home,  in  West  Haven,  Conn. 

2nd.  Sarah  Ann,  b.  18  July,  1838;  mar.  14  May,  1863,  James 
E.  Dole,  farmer;  home,  in  Northfield,  Vt.     Issue: 

I.  Ella  Maria,  b.  10  Feb.,  1864;  mar.  John  Des  Rochers. 

II.  Herman  E.,  b.  10  May,  1866;  mar.  27  Sept.,  1892,  Grace 
Cummings. 

III.  Amy  A.,   b.  2  Feb.,    1869;  mar.   27  Mar.,    1895,   Samuel 
W.  Winch. 

IV.  George  W.,  b.  2  Sept.,    1870;  mar.  21  Sept.,  1893.   Rosa 
Campbell.     Issue:   Eric  and  Arthur. 


ISAAC,     OF     BERWICK  287 

V.  Arthur,    b.    i    Feb.,    1877;    served   in    Spanish    war;     d. 
9  Aug.,  1898. 

VI.  Frederick  J.,  b.  23  July,  1882. 

3d.     George  W.,  b.  16  Oct.,  1840;  d.  in  civil  war,  2  Nov.,  1863. 

4th.  Emeline  L,.,  b.  22  Apr.,  1842;  mar.  15  Mar.,  1868, 
Nathaniel  King;  has  dau.,  Angie  May,  b.  30  May,  1870. 

5th.  Angeline,  b.  22  May,  1843;  a  trained  nurse;  lives  in 
Segreganset. 

6th.  Paphro  D.,  b.  3  May,  1S49;  mar.  Ella  M.  Olmstead;  is  an 
inventor;   home,  in  New  York  city. 

9.  Josiah  Wiggins,  b.  29  June,  1805,  in  Milton;  was  a  farmer; 
killed  7  May,  1856,  by  a  tree  falling  on  him;  mar.  10  Dec,  1835, 
Clarissa  Pattengill,  b.  17  Nov.,  1801.     Issue: 

1st.  Albert  J.,  b.  6  Sept.,  1836,  in  Stowe,  Vt.;  is  a  farmer; 
home,  in  Sparta,  Kent  co.,  Mich. 

2nd.  Orlow  J.,  b.  11  Feb.,  1843;  served  in  the  10th  Mich. 
volunteer  cavalry,  and  d.  during  the  civil  war  while  in  the  service. 

10.  Jones,  b.  20  Oct.,  1807;  was  killed  in  his  youth  at  a  barn 
raising. 

11.  Trneworthy,  b.  23  Oct.,  1809;  wandered  from  home  and  never 
heard  from. 

12.  John,  b.  12  Sept.,  1812:  was  mar.;  is  dec;  descendant,  Mrs. 
Emily  Balentine,  Milton,  N.  H. 

13.  Lucinda,  b.  30  Dec,  1819,  in  Milton;  mar.  15  Sept.,  1840, 
Samuel  L.  Sanborn,  b.  13  Sept.,  1799,  in  Acton;  moved  to  Somers- 
worth,  where  they  lived  and  d.;  she  survived  others  of  her  father's 
family.  In  the  Sanborn  genealogy,  it  is  stated  that  the  first  wife  of 
Samuel,  was  Asenath  Brackett,  to  whom  he  was  mar.  3  Oct.,  1821. 
Issue,  by  both  wives: 

1st.  Samuel  T.,  b.  10  July,  1822. 

2nd.  Albert  J.,  b.  19  Aug.,  1824. 

3d.  Joseph  L..  b.  27  Feb.,  1827;  d.  in  1828. 

4th.  Augustine  L.,  b.  6  July,  1831. 

5th.  Mary,  b.  25  Mar.,  1834;  d.  in  1841. 

6th.  Martha  B.,  b.  20  Dec,  1839;  d.  in  1840. 

7th.  Susan  R.,  b.  25  Oct.,  1841. 

8th.  Emma  J.,  b.  19  Aug.,  1848;  d.  in  1849. 

9th.  Emma  Francena,  b.  26  Sept.,  1850. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Isaac, Isaac,  Isaac. 

Isaac  Brackett  was  born  July  16,  1791,  in  Milton,  N.  H.;  was  a 
farmer;  lived  in  Stowe,  Vt.,  where  he  died  September  12,  1885; 
married  October  7,  18 19,  Mary  Clay,  who  died  in  1830;  married 
(2nd)  in  fall  of  1837,  Susan  Green,  born  August  10,  1804,  in  Taun- 
ton, Mass.,   died  March  20,  1864.     Issue: 


288  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Daniel,  who  d.  young. 

2.  Hannah,  mar.  (ist)  Hawse;   (2nd)  Kelly. 

3.  Rebecca,  mar.  Brown;  is  dec. 

4.  Mary  A.,  mar.  Brown;  is  dec. 

5.  Priscilla,  mar.  Brown. 

6.  Ada,  mar.  Twitchell. 

7.  Jones,  who  d.  young. 

8.  Bathsheba,  who  d.  young. 

9.  Samuel  S.  R.  J.,  b.  7  Apr.,  1838.     See  family  4. 

10.  Elijah  Richardson,  b.  30  Oct.,  1841;  served  in  company  D, 
nth  Vermont  volunteer  heavy  artillery;  d.  3  Apr.,  1863,  at  fort 
Stephens,  D.  C. 

11.  Caroline  Elinor,  b.  14  July,  1844,  in  Stowe,  Vt.;  mar.  n 
Dec,  1874,  Fenno  C.  Bingham,  b.  5  June,  1846,  son  of  Benjamin  C. 
and  wife,  Juliette  E.  Russell,  of  Waterbury,  Vt.;  is  an  employee  in  a 
railroad  shop;  home,  in  Junction  city,  Kas.     Issue: 

1st.     Jennie  Brackett,  b.  15  Jan.,  1876;  d.  4  Mar.,  1887. 
2nd.     Jessie  Emily,   b.   21  June,    1877;  mar.   7  July,    1896,  John 
H.  Chase;  home,  in  Junction  city.     Issue: 

I.     Thelma  Martha,  b.  22  Apr.,  1900. 
3d.     Josie  Eavanda,  b.  15  Dec,  1878;  mar.  2  Sept.,  1896,  Edgar 
D.  Pickering;  home,  in  Junction  city.     Issue: 
I.     Myrtle  Eva,  b.  6  June,  1897. 
4th.     Myrtle  May,  b.  27  Dec,  1880. 
5th.     Karl  Stevens,  b.  8  July,  1887. 

12.  Susan  Jane,  b.  3  June,  1850;  mar.  6  Oct.,  1869,  Fenno  C. 
Bingham;   d.  30  Oct.,  1869. 


NINTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    4. 

From  Family  No.  3.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Isaac,  Isaac,  Isaac,  Samuel  S.  R.  J. 
Samuel  Stevens  Reuben  Jones  Brackett  was  born  April  7,  1838, 
in  Morristown,  Vt.,  where  he  has  continued  to  live;  married  Febru- 
ary 24,  1866,  Lavanda  A.  Luce,  born  August  20,  1844,  in  Stowe.  Vt., 
daughter  of  Delevan  and  wife,  Amy  Kimball.     Issue: 

1.  Ernest  Richardson,  b.  21  Feb.,  1867.     See  family  5. 

2.  Nettie  Leola,  b.  3  July,  1868,  in  Stowe,  Vt.;  mar.  Herbert  E. 
Eaw;  home,  in  Morrisville,  Vt.     Issue: 

1st.     Linwood  Brackett,  b.  10  Dec,  1897. 

3.  Leon  Elwood,  b.  16  Oct.,  1872;  mar.  Margaret  Thomas;  home, 
in  Morrisville,  Vt.     Issue: 

1st.     Paul  W.,  b.  14  Apr.,  1899. 

4.  Cora  Eucy,  b.  2  Mar.,  1874. 

5.  Caroline  A.,  b.  3  May,  1885. 


ISAAC,    OF    BERWICK  289 

TENTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Isaac,  Isaac,  Isaac,  Samuel  S.  R.  J.,  Ernest  R. 

Ernest  Richardson  Brackett  was  born  February  21,  1867,  in 
Stowe,  Yt.,  where  his  parents  lived  until  he  was  of  the  age  of  seven 
years;  moved  to  Morrisville,  Yt.,  where  he  lived  at  home  with  his 
parents  until  the  year  1877,  when  he  went  to  Detroit,  Mich.;  in  that 
city  he  remained  for  two  and  one-half  years;  thence  to  Boston,  for 
one  and  one-half  years.  In  1889,  he  removed  to  Chicago,  which  city 
is  his  home;  is  a  pharmacist,  and  is  interested  in  the  manufacture  of 
clinical  thermometers;  he  married  September  8,  1890,  Bertha  Ellen 
Olmsted,  born  February  3,  1869,  daughter  of  Samuel  N.  and  wife, 
Ellen  L.  Camp,  of  Elmore,  Yt.     Issue: 

1.  Ellen  Eavanda,  b.  3  Jan.,  1892;  d.  8  May,  1893. 

2.  Wm.  Ernest,  b.  10  Apr.,  1898. 


290  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


DIVISION    NO.    10. 


SAMUEL  BRACKETT  OF  BERWICK  AND  HIS 
DESCENDANTS. 

SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 

From  Chapter  YIII.     Descent:     Anthony.  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel. 

Samuel  Braekett  was  born  August  5,  1724,  in  Berwick;  was  bap- 
tized with  three  of  his  brothers  on  January  21,  1728;  always  lived  in 
Berwick;  owned  the  farm  which  was  his  father's.  A  strong  advocate 
of  the  cause  of  the  colonists  in  their  struggle  with  Great  Britain. 
With  his  brothers  James  and  Isaac,  signed  protest  in  1772  to  law  for 
payment  of  salaries  of  colonial  officers  out  of  revenue  derived  from  tax 
on  imported  articles  (see  division  11.)  Married  March  9,  1750,  Mehit- 
able  Richer,  born  October  20,  1730,  died  June  13.  1819.  daughter  of 
Joseph  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Garland;  Joseph  Ricker  was  son  of  Matu- 
rin  Ricker,  the  immigrant,  who  was  killed  by  the  Indians.  Samuel 
Braekett  died  in  Berwick,  June  2,  1801.     Issue: 

1.  Nathaniel,  b.  13  Jan.,  1751.      See  family  2. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  9  July,  1753;   d.  in  July,  1754. 

3.  Sarah,  b.  29  May,  1755;  d.  28  May,  1826;  mar.  6  Nov.,  1777. 
Thomas  Low  of  Sanford,  Me.,  b.  27  April,  1752,  in  Ipswich,  Mass., 
d.  in  1838,  son  of  John  (John4,  John3,  John2,  Thomas1)  and  his 
second  wife,  Elizabeth  Baker,  dau.  of  Thomas  (Thomas2,  Joshua1  ); 
lived  in  Sanford,  afterwards  Coxhall  (Lyman);  his  father  probably 
was  the  first  settler  there.  The  house  of  Thomas  stood  on  the  Lyman 
side  of  the  Alfred  line,  on  the  hillside  overlooking  the  village  of 
Alfred.     On  the  farm  are  the  graves  of  herself  and  husband.      Issue: 

1st.  Sally,  who  mar.  in  1806,  Ebenezer  Gooch;  lived  in  Wells; 
had,  I.  Charles,  whod.  young.  II.  Charles,  who  mar.  Asenath  Per- 
kins. III.  Oliver,  who  d.  young.  IV.  Oliver,  who  mar.  Eliza 
Wormwood.  V.  Ivory,  who  d.  young.  VI.  Thomas,  who  mar.  and 
had  two  children.  VII.  Samuel,  who  mar.  VIII.  Mehitable,  who 
d.  young.  IX.  Polly,  who  d.  young.  X.  Hannah  E.,  who  d. 
young. 

2nd.  Nathaniel,  born  in  1782;  d.  7  Apr.,  1869;  lived  on  tlit 
Thomas  Low  place;  mar.  Izetta  Gooch.  b.  in  1790,  d.  24  Jan.,  1882; 
had,  I.  Sally  H.,  b.  1808,  who  d.  young.  II.  Lavinea,  b.  in  1810, 
mar.  Capt.  Bradford  Oaks,  lived  in  Keunebunk.  III.  Horace,  b.  in 
1812,  d.  young.  IV.  John,  b.  in  1814,  d.  young.  V.  Thomas,  b.  in 
1816,  mar.  Mary  D.  Towas.  VI.  Abigail,  who  d.  young.  VII. 
Betsey,  b.  in  1812,  mar.  Enoch  Cousins.  VIII.  Mary,  whod.  young. 
IX.  Infant,  which  d.  at  birth.  X.  Elmira  S.,  who  mar.  Phineas  H. 
Ricker.  XI.  Joseph  G.,  who  mar.  Sophia  N.  Murphy.  XII. 
Sabre  J.,  b.  in  1835,  who  mar.  Win.  L.  Clark. 

3d.     John,  who  d.  young. 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  291 

4th.      Thomas,  who  d.  young. 

5th.  Thomas,  who  mar.  7  June,  18 10,  Eydia  Gooch;  lived  in 
Kennebunk;  had,  I.  Paulina,  who  mar.  Nathaniel  Gooeh.  II.  Mary, 
who  mar.  James  Wormwood,  lived  in  Biddeford.  III.  Samuel,  who 
mar.  Sophia  Huff,  lived  in  Xeedham,  Mass.  IV.  Betsey,  who  mar. 
Otho  Chapman,  lived  in  Kennebunk.  V.  Sally,  who  d.  single. 
VI.  Lydia,  who  mar.  Nathaniel  Gooeh.  lived  in  Saeo.  VII.  Wil- 
liam,  who   mar.    (1st)    Cynthia   Towne.    (2nd)    Eliza    (Pierce)  . 

VIII.  George,  who  mar.  widow  Moulton  of  Scarboro.  IX.  Frank, 
who  mar.  Clarissa  Dennett,  lived  in  Needham.  X.  Julia,  who  mar. 
Win.  Wells  of  Kennebunk.  XI.  Thomas.,  who  mar.  Phoebe  A. 
Tarbox,   had  three  wives. 

6th.  Betsey,  who  mar.  in  181 1,  Samuel  Boothby;  lived  in  Ken- 
nebunk; had,  I.  Samuel,  who  mar.  Jane  Gooch.  II.  Thomas  L.,  d. 
unmar.      III.   Harriet,  who  d.  unmar.      IV.   Mabel  D.,  who  d.  young. 

7th.  Samuel  Brackett,  b  27  Feb.,  1790;  d.  11  Nov.,  1884,  at  the 
home  of  his  dan.,  Mrs.  Roweua  K.  Waite,  in  Washington,  R.  I.; 
mar.  Lydia  Plummer  Stackpole,  b.  9  Aug.,  1794,  d.  24  Oct.,  1874, 
dan.  of  Aaron  (Joshua4.  Joshua3,  Philip2,  James1);  settled  in  Kenne- 
bunk; removed  about  1X32,  to  Springvale,  Me.  He  raised  a  family 
of  sixteen;  would  never  permit  a  child  to  be  struck  with  a  whip; 
believed  in  an  innate  spirituality  in  mankind,  not  in  natural  deprav- 
ity. It  was  a  regret  with  him  that  he  was  unable  to  see  the  leaders 
of  the  people  at  the  commencement  of  the  civil  war,  believing  that 
had  the  proper  spirit  prevailed  with  them,  war  would  have  been 
averted,  and  that  he  could  have  brought  about  a  compromise.  So 
considerate  was  he  of  the  lives  of  creatures,  that  during  the  winter 
season,  if  mice  got  to  his  grain,  he  would  not  protect  all  of  it  from 
their  ravages  but  would  leave  a  part  for  their  sustenance,  less  they 
should  starve.      Issue: 

I.  Francis,  b.  22  July,  181 2;   mar.  Sarah  Carter. 

II.  John,  b.  21  June,   1814;   mar.  Sarah  Hilton. 

III.  Jane  M..  b.  15  June,  1816;   mar.  Benjamin  F.  Gault. 

IV.  Nahum  H.,  1).  19  Jan.,  1818;   mar.  Maty  E.  Porter. 

V.  Betsey  H.,  b.  — Jan.,  1820;   mar.  Thomas  P.  Gault. 

VI.  Rowena  K.,  b.  21  Oct.,  1821;  mar.  Floyd  A.  Waite. 

VII.  Eliza  E.,  b.  14  Juh-,  1823;  mar.  6  May,  1844,  Samuel 
Veazie  Loring,  Esq.,  b.  6  Dec,  1808,  in  Freeport,  Me.,  son  of  Rev. 
Mr.  Devi  (Bezaleel3,  Nicholas4,  John3,  John2,  Thomas1)  and  wife, 
Sophia  Bosworth,  dau.  of  Hezekiah  (David5,  John4,  Jonathan3, 
Jonathan,2  Edward1).  The  son  of  a  clergyman  who  had  a  large 
family,  it  devolved  upon  Mr.  Loring  to  make,  unassisted,  his  start  in 
the  world;  he  was  an  instructor  in  school;  later,  in  1836,  was  admit- 
ted to  practice  at  the  York  bar,  having  qualified  himself  by  study  in 
the  office  of  Samuel  Bradley  of  Hollis.  Me.  It  was  while  reading 
law  that  he  put  aside  all  thoughts  of  self  and  nursed  smallpox 
patients  in  an  infected  district  near  Hollis.  So  severe  was  the  strain 
on  his  endurance,  from  his  ministrations  to  the  sufferers  without  rest 
that,  one  day  when  the  sun  was  setting,  he  went  to  his  room  to  sleep, 
and  awoke  with  the  sun  in  quite  the  same  altitude  as  when  he  went  to 
his  bed;  supposing  that  he  had  taken  but  a  short  nap,  he  found  that 
he  had  slept  twenty-four  hours  and  had  remained  in  one  position 
during  his  slumber.      In  the  fifties,  Judge  Loring  was  well  known  in 


292  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

York  county.  For  several  years  he  was  located  at  Saco.  As  trial 
justice  it  became  his  duty  to  aid  in  enforcing  the  Maine  liquor  law, 
then  but  recently  enacted;  the  discharge  thereof  brought  upon  him 
many  petty  annoyances.  For  instance,  it  was  for  years  that  he  could 
not  keep  a  sign  over  his  office  door;  when  one  was  put  up  it  was  torn 
down  in  a  few  days.  In  1869,  he  removed  to  Boston,  from  there,  in 
1886,  to  Santa  Barbara,  California.  He  died  27  Feb.,  1888,  from 
heart  failure  consequent  on  pneumonia.  During  his  long  life  he  could 
not  recall  a  day  of  sickness  which  confined  him  to  his  bed;  during  his 
attack  of  pneumonia,  he  kept  about  all  the  time.  Over  fifty  of  his 
ancestors  came  to  America  prior  to  1640.  including  eight  of  the  May- 
flower passengers.     Mrs.  Foring  resides  in  Phoenix,  Arizona.      Issue: 

a.  Frank  Yeazie,  b.  16  Apr.,  1848,  in  Springvale,  Me.,  mar. 
15  Apr.,  1889,  at  Pasadena,  Cal.,  Sarah  Amanda  Steadman,  of  Ste. 
Barbara,  Cal.,  b.  6  Oct.,  1855,  d.  16  Aug.,  1893,  dau.  of  John.  Mr. 
Loring  supplied  data  relative  to  descendants  of  Sarah  Brackett  Fow; 
has  materially  aided  in  other  ways  in  the  compilation  of  this  history; 
no  act  of  kindness  was  left  undone  that  was  in  his  power  to  do  for  the 
writer. 

b.  Henry  Augustus,  b.   2  Feb.,  1852,  in  Saco;  d.  19  Oct., 

c.  George  Edwin,  b.  15  Feb.,  1854,  in  Saco;  mar.  in  1874, 
Aggie  Robie,  who  d.  in  1878;  mar.  (2nd)  in  1881,  Jenny  Clark  of 
Gray,  Me.     Issue: 

a.  George  E.,  b.  in  Feb.,  1876.  b.  Matt  R.,  b.  in  1878;  a 
clerk  in  Post  office  Dept.,  Washington,  D.  C.  c.  Ed  C.  d.  Brent 
K.     e.   Floyd,      f.   Amy,  who  d. 

d.  Amy  Eliza,  b.  18  Oct.,  1856,  in  Saco;  mar.  in  1874, 
Otis  H.  Weed,  Jr.;  she  d.  in  1883,  leaving  one  son. 

VIII.  Caroline,    who   mar.   George  F.   Parker,    (2nd)   David 
Cornell. 

IX.  Samuel  B.,  b.  in  Feb.,  1827;  d.  age  14  years. 

X.  Charles,  b.  in  Feb.,  1827;  d.  age  14  years. 

XI.  Clarissa  Haley,  b.  in  Aug.,  1828;  mar.  Royal  F.  Weller. 

XII.  Lydia  Maria,  b.  in  Jan.,  1832;  never  mar.;  is  dec. 

XIII.  Hovey  P..  b.  in  Dec,  1832;  mar.  Frances  Koogle. 

XIV.  Sarah  F-,  b.  12  Jan.,  1835;   mar.  Wm.  A.  Jackson. 

XV.  Ellen  F.,  b.  12  Jan.,  1836;  mar.  (1st)  Albert  G.  Pollard, 
(2nd)  Samuel  C.  Jordan. 

XVI.  Emma  H.,  b.  in  1838. 

8th.     Mehitable,  who  mar.  James  Libby. 

4.  Samuel,  b.  8  Aug.,  1757.     See  family  3. 

5.  Elizabeth,  b.  22  Oct.,  1759;  mar.  12  Sept.,  1779,  Daniel  Emery 
of  Coxhall;  d.  22  Dec,  1829. 

6.  Mary,  b.    1  June,    1761;  mar.    14   Oct.,    1782,   Daniel  Coffin  of 
Sanford;  d.  17  Jan.,  1787.     Children  were  Enoch  and  Simeon. 

7.  Reuben,  b.  23  Mar.,  1762.     See  family  4. 

8.  Mehitable,  b.  2  Sept.,  1766;   mar.  9  June,    1791,  James  Hamil- 
ton;  d.  26  Jan.,  1828. 

9.  Joseph,  b.  31  Mar.,  1769.     See  family  5. 

10.  Hannah,  b.  30  Apr.,   1771;  mar.   12  Aug.,    1790,  Paul  Stone, 
Jr.;   d.  1  Apr.,  1800. 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  293 

SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.  i.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel. 
Samuel,  Nathaniel. 
Nathaniel  Braekett  was  born  January  13,  1751,  in  Berwick. 
Enlisted  as  private  July  17,  1775,  in  Captain  Ebenezer  Sullivan's 
company.  Colonel  James  Scammon's  regiment;  served  fifteen  days,  as 
appears  from  muster  roll  dated  August  1,  1775.  Also  received  order 
for  bounty  coat  or  its  equivalent  in  money,  dated  at  Cambridge, 
December  20,  1775.  Married  September  12,  1776,  Sarah  Chadbourne, 
born  March  10,  1756,  died  in  Lyman,  daughter  of  Humphrey;  he  was 
born  June  19,  1716,  married  April  1,  1742,  Phoebe  Hobbs  (died  Au- 
gust 6,  1807),  died  in  Cornish,  May   11,  1798;  both  buried  in  North 

Waterboro;  was  son  of  William;   he  married  Mary ;  both  were 

baptized  and  owned  covenant  in  church  at  South  Berwick,  November 
21,  1 7 14;  was  son  of  William,  who  was  in  employ  of  Captain  John 
Mason  at  Portsmouth.  Nathaniel  Braekett  was  a  farmer;  moved 
from  Berwick,  about  1782,  to  Lyman  where  he  died  April  10,  1842. 
Issue: 

1.  Nathaniel,  b.  24  Aug.,  1777;  d.  21  Sept.,  1778. 

2.  Nathaniel,  b.  29  Jan.,  1780.     See  family  6. 

3.  Isaac,  b.  5  July,  1782.     See  family  7. 

4.  Phebe,  b.  11  Aug.,  1784;   never  mar.;  d.  2  Mar.,  1884. 

5.  Mehitable,  b.  3  Dec,  1786,  in  Lyman,  Me;  mar.  Moses  Ricker, 
b.  6  Feb.,  1787,  d.  22  Dec,  1861,  farmer;  home,  in  Waterboro,  Me.; 
she  d.  22  Dec,  1867,  in  Limerick,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Eunice,  b.  12  June,  1814;  d.  25  July,  1850. 

2nd.     Sally  C.  b.  18  Oct.,  1821;  d.  4  Jan..  1840. 

3d.  John  B.,  b.  25  Sept.,  1827,  in  Waterboro;  is  a  farmer  and 
shoemaker;  mar.  24  Oct..  1852,  Jane  Webber,  b.  4  May,  1827,  d.  7 
Jan.,  1892,  dau.  of  Edmund  and  wife,  Fanny  Skillins.     Issue: 

I.  Sadie,  b.  23  Sept.,  1853;  mar.  11  Mar.,  1879,  Frank  P. 
Wormwood;   home,  in  Franconia,  N.  H. 

II.  'Abbie  Jane,  b.  8  Mar.,  1855;  d.  20  Feb.,  i860. 

III.  John  Edmund,  b.  27  Feb.,  1857;  mar.  17  June,  1882, 
Emma  Gilpatrick;  home,  in  Newfield,  Me.     Issue: 

a.      Clara,  b.  17  May,  1885. 

IV.  Charles  Herbert,  b.  23  Nov.,  1859;  mar.  12  June,  1886, 
Hattie  Small.  Issue:  Arthur  Leon,  b.  17  July,  1887;  Alice  G.,  b.  9 
Oct.,  1889;   Walter  C,  b.  8  June,  1894. 

V.  Ida  Jane,  b.  21  Apr.,  1862;  mar.  14  June,  1884,  Charles 
E.  Libby;  home,  in  Newfield,  Me.  Issue:  Eugene  F.,  b.  22  Aug., 
1888;   Winnie  A.,  b.  9  Nov.,  1889;  Edith  F.,  b.  6  Mar.,  1898. 

VI.  Clara  M.,  b  7  Mar.,  1864:  d.  26  Apr..  1864. 

(I.  John,  b.  7  July,  1789,  in  Lyman;  never  mar.;  he  and  his  sisters, 
Phebe  and  Mary,  lived  on  their  father's  farm;  was  a  Quaker  as  were 
other  members  of  his  father's  family;  he  d.  15  Apr.,  1845,  death  due 
to  injuries  from  falling  out  of  a  wagon. 

7.     Mary,  b.  6  May,  1792;  never  mar.;  d.  27  Nov.,  1883. 


294  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From  Family  No.  i.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Samuel. 
Samuel  Braekett  was  born  August  8,  1757,  in  Berwick,  Me. 
Served  in  Colonel  John  Frost's  (2nd  York)  regiment;  was  one  of 
number  drafted  from  that  regiment,  as  per  list  returned  May  7,  1777, 
for  service  in  Rhode  Island.  Joined  Captain  Samuel  Grant's  com- 
pany, Colonel  Jonathan  Titcomb's  regiment;  served  sixty-one  days  in 
Rhode  Island  prior  to  July  18,  1777.  Also  served  in  Captain  Grant's 
company,  Colonel  Storer's  regiment;  enlisted  August  14,  1777,  and 
was  discharged  November  30,  1778,  at  Queman's  heights:  Served 
four  months  and  three  days  in  the  Northern  army.  From  Berwick  he 
went  to  Limiugton,  Me.,  where  he  died  October  31,  1850.  Was  a 
farmer;   married  April  26,  1781,  Mary  Wentworth.     Issue: 

1.  Wentworth,  b.  3  Sept.,  1782;  d.  20  Sept.,  1807. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  14  Sept.,  1784.     See  family  8. 

3.  John,  b.  20  Jan.,  1787.     See  family  9. 

4.  David,  b.  2  Feb.,  1789.     See  family  10. 

5.  Nathaniel,  b.  3  Oct.,  1791;  d.  27  Feb.,  1815. 

6.  Daniel,  b.  21  Sept.,  1794;   d.  in  1795. 

7.  Comfort,  b.  8  July,  1796;  mar.  Samuel  Wiggin,  b.  in  1798,  d. 
10  Jan.,  1880;  lived  in  Biddeford  and  Standish;  d.  29  Mar.,  i860. 
Children  were  Charles  Braekett;  Harriet  C;  Mary  J.;  Abbie  B.; 
Anna  P. 

8.  Daniel,  b.  5  Sept.,  1799;   d.  uumar.  in  Biddeford,  in  1871. 

9.  Phebe,  b.  26  Jan.,  1804;  mar.  Captain  Bradford  Oaks  and  lived 
in  Kennebunk,  Me. 

10.  Mark,  b.  3  Mar.,  1802;  d.  22  Apr.,  1803. 

11.  Mary,  b.  18  Feb.,  1812;   d.  15  Feb.,  1813. 

FAMILY  NO.  4. 
From  Family  No.  1.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Reuben. 
Reuben  Braekett  was  born  March  23,  1762,  in  Berwick,  Me.; 
when  a  young  man  he  removed  to  Limiugton  where  he  resided  until 
his  death  April  21,  1846;  was  a  farmer.  Married  January  10,  1791, 
Jane  Mc Arthur,  born  August  \  1773,  died  November  4,  1857.  On 
the  records  of  the  town  of  Windham  are  spread  the  names  of  the  mem- 
bers of  his  family  with  date  of  birtlioieach  and  also  date  of  his  death. 
The  dates  are  those  here  given  except  the  year  of  his  birth  which  is 
stated  on  the  Windham  town  records  as  1764;  it  is  thought  that  the 
Berwick  town  records  give  the  date  of  his  birth  correctly.  Mr. 
Braekett  was  a  Quaker.     Issue: 

1.  Reuben,  b.  14  Dec,  1791.     See  family  11. 

2.  Mary,  b.  18  May,  1794;   d.  unmar.  30  Sept.,  1859. 

3.  Oliver,  b.  19  June,  1798;  d.  25  Nov.,  1798. 

4.  Oliver,  b.  18  June,  1800.      See  family  12. 

5.  Elvira,  b.  21  Feb.,  1804;  mar.  in  1825,  Josiah  Marston  of  Sand- 
wich, N.  H.;   d.  in  1875. 

6.  Jane,  b.  23  June,  1808;   d.  27  July,  1820. 

7.  Joseph  J.,  b.    8  Feb.,    181 4;    mar.  21  Sept.,  ,   Ann   Maria 

Fluent  of  Westbrook,  Me.,  who  d.  about  1894;  he  d.  in  1892  in  Min- 
nesota.    No  issue. 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  I'D.") 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 
From  Family  No.  i.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Joseph. 

Joseph  Braekett  was  born  March  31,  1769,  in  Berwick,  Me.; 
lived  for  a  time  in  Brooks,  where  he  died  January  6,  1852;  was  a 
farmer;  owned  and  resided  on  the  farm  that  was  his  father's  and  his 
grandfather's;  married  (1st)  Mary  Chadbourne,  born  January  24, 
1777,  died  December  16,  1813;  married  (2nd)  Saloma  C.  Clark, 
widow,  born  about  1783,  died  18  July,  1855.     Issue: 

1.  Humphrey,    b.     18    Apr.,    1796;    d.  ;  mar.   2  Dec,    1819, 

Joanna  Ricker,  b.  7  Jan.,   1796,  d.  26  Aug.,  1868;  was  a  blacksmith; 
lived  in  Limerick,   Me.     Issue: 

1st.  George  Lorenzo,  b.  5  Jan.,  1821;  mar.  Elsie  J.  Stevens:  d. 
23  Dec,  1853;  had  daughter  Catherine,  b.  in  1844. 

2nd.      Alary  C,  b.  29  July,  1824;  d.  19  July,  1851. 

3d.  Eunice,  b.  21  Feb.,  1833;  mar.  Dr.  Henry  Sawyer  of  Ken- 
nebunkport,  Me.;  d.  in  Nov.,  1895. 

4th.      Samuel,  b.  10  Mar.,  1829;   d.  16  Nov.,  1832. 

2.  Elizabeth,  b.  25  Apr.,  1798;  mar.  William  Cole  of  Deerfield, 
N.  H.;  is  dec;   no  issue. 

.'!.  Hannah,  b.  6  Dec,  1799;  mar.  Stephen  Nichols  of  Vassalboro, 
Me.;   is  dec.      Issue: 

1st.     Joseph,  who  mar.  Mary  J.  Merrill  of  South  Berwick. 

2nd.     Mary,  who  mar. Bailey. 

3d.     .Samuel,  who  never  mar. 

4th.     Hannah  Elizabeth. 

5th.      Myra,  who  mar.  Charles  Goddard. 
4.      Samuel,  b.  S  Oct.,   [8oi;   never  mar.;   d.  6  Aug.,  1828. 
.">.     Daniel,  b.  4  Oct.,  1803;  mar. ;  d.  22  Dec,  1836.      Issue: 

1st.     Elizabeth,  who  mar.  Martin  of  Hayward,  Wis. 

2nd.      Saloma.  who  mar.  Wheeler  of  Uxbridge,  Mass.;  d.  in  1898. 

3d.      Mary  Jane,  who  mar.  Jacob  Brown. 

4th.      Francis. 

6.  Phoebe,  b.  27  Oct.,  1805;  mar.  Francis  Allen;  d.  7  Nov.,  1845. 
Children,  Reuben;  Joseph;  Sarah;  Phoebe,  who  d.  20  June,  1846, 
age  17  months. 

7.  Sarah,  b.  28  Oct.,  1807;   never  mar.;  d.  17  Oct.,  1871. 

8.  Joseph,  b.  27  Feb.,  1810.     See  family  13. 
(.».     Reuben,  b.  19  Feb.,  1812;  is  dec. 

10.      Nathaniel,  b.  16  Dec,  1813;  was  a  teacher  in  common  schools; 
mar.  Mary  J.  Weymouth,  1).  in  1S14.       Issue: 
1st.     Louisa  J.,  b.  in  1839. 
2nd.     Sarah  Charlotte,  b.  in  1841. 
3d.     Ellen  C,  b.  in  1849. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 
From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas.  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Nathaniel. 
Nathaniel   Braekett   was  born  January   29,    1780;    first   lived   111 
Limington,  then  moved  to  Cornish,  Me.,  where  he  died,   October  20, 


296  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1 87 1,  in  the  ninety-second  year  of  his  age;  was  a  farmer;  he  and 
members  of  his  family  were  Free  Will  Baptists;  married  November 
16,  1805,  Alice  Richer,  born  November  6,  1783,  died  December  21, 
1865,  daughter  of  Timothy  and  wife,  Eunice  Pray,  of  Waterboro,  Me. 
Issue: 

1.  Sally  C.  b.  28  Oct..  1806;  d.  1  Sept.,  1878. 

2.  Eunice  R.,  b.  25  July,  1808;   d.  4  Feb.,  1834. 

3.  Phoebe,  b.  18  Mar.,  1813;  mar.  3  Nov.,  1848,  Enoch  Allen,  b. 
7  Nov.,  1805,  d.  6  Apr.,  1886,  son  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Mehitable 
York,  of  Parsonsfield,  Me.;  was  a  farmer;  home,  in  East  Parsonsfield. 
Mrs.  Allen  supplied  data  relative  to  her  family.     Issue: 

1st.  Iola  R.  Allen,  b.  1  Aug.,  1850;  mar.  25  June,  1870,  John 
L.  Bennett,  who  d.  3  Sept.,  1886;  she  d.  3  Oct.,  1871. 

2nd.  Ella  E.,  b.  17  June,  1853;  mar.  in  May,  1874,  John  L. 
Bennett;  home,  in  Wollaston,  Mass.     Issue: 

I.  Annie  Maud,  b.  9  Jan.,  1875. 

II.  Charles  E.  A.,  b.  9  June,  1876. 

3d.     Emma  R.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1856;   d.  18  July,  1872. 

4.  Moses  R.,  b.  27  Sept.,  1818,  mar.  Mary  Ann  Weeks,  b.  in  1821, 
dau.  of  Henry  (son  of  Noah)  and  wife,  Pendexter;  was  a  tinplate 
worker;  home,  in  Parsonsfield;  d.  26  Oct.,  1897.     Issue: 

1st.     Eunice,  b.  in  1841;   mar.  Edwin  Sadler;  is  dec. 
2nd.     Sarah,  b.  in  1843;  is  dec. 
3d.     Alice,  b.  in  1851;  is  dec. 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Isaac. 

Isaac  Brackett  was  born  in  Lyman,  Me.,  July  5.  1782;  resided  in 
Limington  where  he  died  December  19,  1838;  was  a  farmer;  married 
July  18,  1809,  Margaret  Richer,  born  May  16,  1789,  died  August  23, 
1839,  daughter  of  Timothy;  he  was  born  in  Berwick  about  1761,  mar- 
ried Eunice  Pray,  was  son  of  Jabez  Ricker,  son  of  Maturin  Ricker. 
Issue: 

1.  Mary,  b.  12  Sept.,  1810;  mar.  23  Jan.,  1834,  William  L- 
O'Brien,  b.  21  July,  1803,  d.  14  Sept.,  1885,  sou  of  John  and  wife, 
Abigail  Wilson,  of  Cornish,  Me.     Mary  d.  10  Oct.,  1886.     Issue: 

1st.  Eliza,  b.  6  Mar.,  1837;  mar.  11  Oct.,  1859,  J.  F.  Jameson, 
b.  28  July,  1836,  a  merchant  in  Cornish,  Me.,  son  of  John  and  wife, 
Nancy  C.  Barker,  of  Cornish.     Issue: 

I.  Allie  Marcia,  b.  12  July,  i860;  d.  22  Mar.,  1875. 

II.  Fannie  O'Brien,  b.  13  Sept.,  1863;  d.  26  Mar.,  1889. 

III.  Harry   Preston,    b.    19   Mar.,    1865;    mar.    Rose   Wedge- 
wood.     Issue: 

a.  Ruth,  b.  22  Sept.,  1895. 

b.  Fannie  O'Brien,  b.  5  Apr.,  1900. 

IV.  Margaret,  b.  4  Oct.,  1876. 

V.  Malcolm,  b.  10  Apr.,  1879;  d.  16  May,  1880. 
2nd.     Marshall,  b.  7  Nov.,  1838;  d.  17  Apr.,  1843. 

3d.  Martha  H.,  b.  27  Aug.,  1846;  mar.  G.  F.  Clifford  of  Cor- 
nish, Me. 

2.  Mehitable,  b.  6  Feb.,    1812;  mar.  7  Dec.    1828,   Cotton  Bean; 
ived  in  Limerick;  she  d.  5  Apr.,  1893.     Issue: 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  297 

1st.  Isaac  B.,  b.  25  Oct.,  1829.  2nd.  Charles,  b.  30  Jan.,  1831. 
3d.  Albion,  b.  4  Nov.,  1833.  4th.  Cyrus  E.,  b.  11  Apr.,  1835.  5th. 
Ivory  Small,  b.  17  Oct.,  1841. 

3.  Nathaniel,  b.  2  Nov.,  1813.     See  family  14. 

4.  Timothy,  b.  12  June,  1815.     See  family  15. 

5.  Isaac,  b.  18  July,  1822.     See  family  16. 

(>.     Sarah,  b.   13  May,  1825;   mar.  Nahum  McKusick,  b.   19  July, 
1819;  d.  in  Feb.,  1904.     Issue: 

1st.  Albanus,  whod.  in  1898.  2nd.  Edwin.  3d.  Walter,  home 
is  in  Saco,  Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  3.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Samuel,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  September  14,  1784;  lived  in  Lim- 
erick; was  a  farmer;  deceased  subsequently  to  i860;  married  Abigail 
Munson.      Issue: 

1.  Mary,  b.  in  1816;  unmar.  in  i860. 

2.  Nathaniel,  b.  in  1815.     See  family  17. 
.'!.      Edward,  b.  in  1X1S.      See  family  18. 

4.  Almira,  b.  in  1821. 

5.  Abigail. 

FAMILY   NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  3.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Samuel,  John. 
John  Brackett  was  born  January  20,  1787,  in  Limington;  was  a 
farmer;   lived  in  Limerick;   died  October  31,  1850;  married  Phoebe  Gil- 
kev.      Issue: 

i.     James  G.,  1>.  11  July,  [818.     See  family  19. 
2.      Isaac,  b.  28  Feb.,  1820;  d.  in  June,  1825. 

:;.     Joseph  G.,  b.  3  Dec,  1823,  in  Limington;  was  a  grocer;  lived 
in  Biddeford,  Me.,  where  he  d.  3  Nov.,  1892;  mar.  Emma  J.  Hasty, 
1).  31  Aug.,  1827,  d.  6  Jan.,  1895.     Issue: 
1st.     Joseph,  who  is  dec. 

2nd.  Ada  E.,  b.  in  1852;  mar.  James  W.  Gooch;  home,  in  Bid- 
deford.     Issue: 

I.  Glenna  K. 

II.  Emma  C. 

3d.  Emma  D.,  who  is  dec. 

4th.  Ina  Lucy,  b.  in  1866;  lives  in  Biddeford. 
4.     Elizabeth,  b.'  in  1824;   mar.  Silas  Elden;  home,  in  Biddeford. 
Issue: 

1st.  Martha  E.,  who  mar.  Edmund  Hanson  of  Hollis. 

2nd.  George  A.,  who  died  27  Oct.,  1859. 

3d.  Charles  E.,  b.  5  Apr.,  1863. 

4th.  Arthur  E.,  b.  6  Apr.,  1864. 

5th.  James  B.,  who  mar.  Elizabeth  Chadbourne. 

6th.  Paul  H.,  who  mar.  Ida  M.  Benson;   d.  19  May,  1891. 

7th.  Alice  S.,  who  d.  12  Nov.,  1888. 

8th.  May  T.,  who  mar.  Duncan  Innes  of  Saco,  and  has  child, 
Doris  Elden. 


298  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

5.  Wentworth,  b.  6  July,  1826;   d.  in  1830. 

<i.  Charles  Henry,  b.  26  July,  1829;  was  a  grocer  in  Biddeford. 
where  he  d.  26  Aug.,  1898;  mar.  16  June,  1856,  Susan  J.  Hasty,  b. 
4  Feb.,  1833,  dau.  of  David  and  wife,  Betsey  Watson,  of  Limingtou. 
Issue: 

1st.     Carrie  M.,  b.  5  Oct.,  1858. 

7.  Dennis,  b.  6  Sept.,  1832;   d.  in  July,   1.S47. 

8.  Martha,  b.  31  Oct..   1834;   d.  in  Aug..  1855. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family  No.  3.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel. 
Samuel,  Samuel,  David. 

David  Brackett  was  born  February  2,  1789;  lived  in  Jackson, 
Waldo  county.  Me.,  where  he  died  October  5,  1871;  was  a  farmer: 
married  (1st)  Mary  Bean  of  Limerick;  (2nd)  Betsey  Cook;  (3d)  in 
1832,  Olive  Trueworthy,  born  October  8,  1802,  died  January  18,  1882, 
daughter  of  Jacob  and  wife,  Jackson,  of  Unity,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Thomas  R.,  b.  16  May,  1827.     See  family  20. 

2.  Eliza  B.,  b.  30  Dec,  1832;  mar.  in  1854,  Frank  Webber;  d.  24 
Feb.,  i860.     Issue: 

1st.  Mary  Jane,  b.  in  185s;  mar.  William  A.  Prescott.  Children, 
Mildred  G.;  Elia  B.  and  William  A. 

2nd.  Olive  C  b.  in  1857;  mar.  in  1882.  Charles  A.  Gridley. 
Children,   Carl  and  Harold. 

•'!.     Lydia,  b.  4  Dec,  1834;   d.  20  Apr.,  1852. 
4.     David,  b.  1  Feb.,  1837.     See  family  21. 

6.  Julia  A.,  b.  21  Sept.,  1843;  mar.  Frank  Webber;  d.  17  April, 
1886.  Children.  Lincoln  A.;  Villa  M.;  Frank  W.:  Blanche  E.:  Myra 
G.;    Burton  E.;   Mary  B. 

7.  Charles  S.,  b. '26  June,   1845;   d.  8  May,  1855. 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From  Family  No.  4.      Descent:      Anthony.  Thomas.  Samuel.  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Reuben,  Reuben. 

Reuben  Brackett  was  born  December  14.  1791,  in  Limingtou; 
learned  his  trade,  watch  and  clock-making,  in  Berwick;  went  to  Vas- 
salboro  prior  to  1820,  and  established  his  business  at  Getchell's  cor- 
ner; after  about  seven  or  eight  years  he  bought  a  farm  in  Unity.  Me., 
two  miles  from  Antioch;  was  there  engaged  in  farming  and  clock- 
making  for  several  years;  then  removed  to  Lynn,  Mass..  where  he 
was  in  charge  of  the  Lynn  rubber  works  for  about  three  years;  moved 
to  Westbrook  prior  to  1830;  lived  at  Saccarappa  village  for  about  one 
year  when  he  moved  to  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  Married  November  26. 
1817,  Eliza  Starkey,  daughter  of  Moses,  of  Vassalboro;  she  died  in 
Cincinnati,  December  8,  1837,  aged  thirty-eight  years  and  eleven 
months;  married  (2nd)  Amy  Kyle  Goddard.  From  Cincinnati  he 
moved  to  Iowa;  died  in  Denmark,  Iowa,  December  3,  1867.     Issue: 

1.  Edward  A.,  b.  1  Oct.,  1818.     See  family  22. 

2.  Jane  Elizabeth,  b.  27  June,  1821,  in  Vassalboro;  mar.  14  Nov., 
1839,  Alexander  H.  Field  of  Cincinnati,  who  d.  4  Feb.,  1896,  in  San 
Diego,  Cal;  she  d.  16  Feb.,  1893,  in  San  Diego.     Issue: 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  L".l(.) 

1st.  Gustavus  B.,  b.  25  Oct.,  1841,  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio;  d.  25 
Oct.,  1841. 

2nd.     Ella  Gray,  b.  18  June,  1848,  in  Boston;  d.  9  May,  1850. 

3d.     George  Hamilton,  b.  4  Oct.,  1850,  in  Boston. 

4th.     Edward  Clinton,  b.  7  Aug.,  1854,  in  Limington,  Me. 

oth.     Mary  Lane,  b.  26  Sept.,  1858,  in  Winchester,  Mass. 

6th.  Jennie  Hamilton,  b.  14  Jan.,  1862,  in  Winchester,  Mass.; 
living  in  Fresno,  Cal. 

3.  Walter  M.,  b.  14  June,  1823.     See  family  23. 

4.  Gustavus  B.,  b.  24  Mar.,  1827.     See  family  24. 

5.  George  C,  b.  26  Oct.,  1830.     See  family  25. 
<'».     Arthur,  b.  19  Apr.,  1847.     See  family  26. 

7.     Charles  S.,  b.  29  Sept.,  1857.     See  family  27. 


FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Reuben,  Oliver. 

Oliver  Brackett  was  born  June  18,  1800,  in  Limington,  Me.;  in 
1833,  removed  to  Ohio;  was  engaged  in  the  manufacture  of  oilcloth 
until  1845,  subsequently  in  farming  until  his  death,  April  18,  1869; 
resided  in  town  of  Transit  near  Cincinnati.  Married  February  22, 
1832,  Mary  Chase  Purinton,  of  Lynn,  Mass.,  born  August  26,  1806, 
died  February  iS,  1878,  at  the  home  of  her  son  in  Sherman,  Texas, 
daughter  of  Peletiah  Purinton,  born  August  4,  1763,  in  Berwick,  and 
wife,  Kezia  Newhall,  born  August  8,  1765,  died  October  9,  1831,  in 
Lynn.      Issue: 

1.  Arthur  O.,  b.  16  Aug.,  1833.     See  family  28. 

2.  Elvira  M.,  b.  26  July,   1839,  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio;   mar.  James 
D.  Henry;  home  in  Cincinnati.     No  issue. 

3.  Annie  P.,  b.    1   Oct.,  1842;  d.  21   Nov.,    1888,  in  Grovesbeck, 
Ohio;  mar.  4  Mar.,  1868,  Martin  Pinney.     Issue: 

1st.  Sidney  Stewart,  b.  25  Feb.,  1869. 

2nd.     Joseph  Arthur,  b.  15  Nov.,  1870. 

3d.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  15  Oct.,  1872;  d.  12  Jan.,  1888. 

Itli.  Martin  J.,  b.  28  Dec,  1874. 

5th.  Oliver  H.,  b.  7  June,  1878.     All  b.  in  Transit,  Ohio. 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Joseph,  Joseph. 
Joseph  Brackett  was  born  February  27,  1810,  in  Berwick;  lived 
on  the  homestead  where  his  forefathers  in  Berwick  had  lived;  in 
1 861,  served  the  town  as  selectman;  was  a  farmer;  died  July  8,  1869; 
married  Sarah  Kelley,  nee  Clark,  born  May  31,  1808;  died  July  20, 
1868,  sister  of  Saloma'  C.  (see  fam.  5.)     Issue: 

1.  Mary  J.,  b.  12  May,  1835;  mar.  John  Jepson.  who  is  dec;  mar. 
(2nd)  James  M.  Fernald;  home,  in  Lewiston,  Me. 

2.  Reuben  F..  b.  12  Feb.,  1838.     See  family  29. 


300  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY  NO.  14. 
From  Family  No.  7.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas.  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Isaac,  Nathaniel. 
Nathaniel  Brackett  was  born  November  2,  18 13,  in  Limington; 
home  was  in  Parsonsfield,  where  he  resided  for  several  years 
engaged  in  mercantile  business;  died  there  January  7,  1853;  mar- 
ried July  22,  1838,  Parmelia  Foss,  born  March  27,  1819,  died  March 
8,  1897,  daughter  of  John  and  wife,  Jane  Joy,  of  Limington,  Me. 
Issue: 

1.  Mary  E.,  b.  29  Mar.,  1842;  mar.  13  July,  1859,  J.  Frank 
Dearborn;  he  is  dec;  she  d.  6  May,  1899.     Issue: 

1st.     Alice,  who  mar.  W.  W.  Williams;  home,  in  Mattoon,  111. 
2nd.     Frank  B.,   resides  in  Portland. 

2.  Charles  C,  b.  9  May,  1844,  mar.  18  Sept..  1863.  Sarah  E. 
French;  d.  14  Jan.,  1864. 

3.  Maria  J.,  b.  2  June,  1847;  mar.  30  Nov.,  1866,  Samuel  F. 
Perry;  d.  22  July,  1873.     Issue: 

1st.  Jennie  C,  b.  30  Nov.,  1867,  in  E.  Parsonsfield,  Me.;  mar.  22 
Mar.,  1892,  Isaiah  A.  Forrest,  b.  25  Mar.,  1870,  son  of  Andrew  J. 
and  wife,  Arvilla  R.  Kenerson,  of  Silver  Lake,  N.  H.;  Mr.  For- 
rest was  appointed  station  agent  at  Silver  Lake,  when  he  was  eigh- 
teen years  old  and  still  holds  the  position  (1906);  is  a  member  of 
the  firm  of  Forrest,  Chick  &  Son,  furniture  dealers;  his  father 
cleared  the  land  on  which  is  built  the  Silver  Lake  hotel,  now  a  popu- 
lar summer  resort;  his  grandfather,  Isaiah  Forrest,  was  an  officer  in 
the  war  of  181 2.     No  issue. 

4.  Abbie  F.,  b.  19  Aug.,  1850;  mar.  18  Dec,  1869,  N.  Webster 
Fenderson,  b.  22  Aug.,  1842,  son  of  Ivory  and  wife,  Martha  Chase, 
of  Parsonsfield,  Me.;  is  a  farmer;  home,  in  East  Parsonsfield.  Mrs. 
Fenderson  supplied  data  relative  to  descendants  of  her  father.     Issue: 

1st.     Blanch  M.,  b.  16  Jan.,  1872;   is  a  teacher. 

2nd.     Frank  D.,  b.  15  June,  1878;  is  a  lawyer  in  Limerick,  Me. 

FAMILY     NO.     15. 

From  Family  No.  7.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Isaac,  Timothy. 

Timothy  Brackett  was  born  June  12,  1815,  in  Limington,  where 
he  lived  on  a  farm  until  1862,  when  he  removed  to  Cornish,  Me.,  and 
engaged  in  merchandizing;  elected  state  representative  in  1875  and 
in  1878.  In  the  closing  years  of  his  life,  was  afflicted  with  paralysis; 
died  October  2,  1880.  Married  November  20,  1839,  Sarah  W.  Davis, 
born  in  1820,  died  February  7,  1854,  daughter  of  William  and  wife, 
Mary  Waterhouse,  of  Limington,  Me.;  married  (2nd)  Elizabeth 
Cobb,  who  died  in  July,  1864.     Issue: 

1.  Isaac  N.,  b.  27  Feb.,  1841.     See  family  30. 

2.  Benjamin  F.,  b.  in  1846;  mar.  Flora  Fogg;  home,  in  Portland. 
Children,   Helen  I.;   Bessie;   Marian;   Ruth. 

3.  Howard,  b.  22  Mar.,  1856.     See  family  31. 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  301 

4.     Carrie,  b.    12   Dec,    i860,   in   Limerick;  mar.    21    Sept.,    1881, 
James  M.  Haley,  b.   21   Aug.,  1853,  son  of  Harrison  and  wife,  Mary 
E.  Whitten,  of  Cornish;  is  a  carpenter;  home,  in  Cornish.     Issue: 
1st.     Geneva  Brackett,  b.  28  May,  1894. 

FAMILY    NO.     16. 

From  Family  No.  7.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Isaac,  Isaac. 

Isaac  Brackett  was  born  July  18,  1822,  in  Limington;  was  a 
manufacturer  of  clothing;  resided  in  Parsonsfield,  Limerick,  Alfred, 
Biddeford,  Portland,  and  Bangor  in  the  order  named,  in  which  latter 
place  he  died  February  22,  1900.  In  Portland  he  kept  the  old  Elm 
house  on  Federal  street;  married  May  16,  1842,  Almira  W.  Weeks, 
born  May  5,  1826.  died  September  19,  1861;  married  (2nd)  Novem- 
ber 18,  1862,  Sarah  M.  Weeks,  born  February  22,  1835,  daughters  of 
James  Wesley  Weeks  (son  of  Noah)  and  wife,  Sarah  Coffin  Frye,  of 
Limerick,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Margaretta  S.,  b.  2  July,    1846;   mar.  Frank  A.  Hill;  home,  in 
Cambridge,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.  Myron  Francis,  b.  20  Dec,  1867,  in  Milford,  Mass.;  mar. 
Gertrude  Martin,  of  Washington,  D.  C. 

2nd.  Lewis  Dana,  b.  16  Sept.,  1870,  in  Chelsea,  Mass.;  mar. 
Caroline  Carrick,  of  Cambridge,  Mass. 

3d.  Frederick  Brackett,  b.  30  Mar.,  1873,  in  Chelsea;  mar. 
Edith  Draper,  of  Holyoke,  Mass. 

2.  Althea  L.,  b.  29  Dec,  1850;  mar.  John  S.  Frostx 

3.  Dana,  b.  31  Aug.,  1861;  d.  31  Aug.,  1861. 

4.  Myra,    b.    26    Feb.,    1867;    mar.    J.    Henry    Smith;    home,    in 
Bangor,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     J.  Hamilton,  b.  21  Oct.,  1893. 

2nd.     Raeburn  Brackett,  b.  18  June,  1895. 

5.  Jennie  L.,  b.  5  Jan.,  1871;  resides  in  Cambridge. 

FAMILY    NO.    17. 

From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:   Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Samuel,  Samuel,  Nathaniel. 
Nathaniel  Brackett  was  born  in  1815,  in  Limerick;  was  a  farmer; 
always  lived  in  Limerick;  died  in  1904;  married  Rosanna  Hasty,  born 
in  182 1.     Issue: 

1.  Edward  Payson,   d.  before  1850. 

2.  Dominicus  H.,  b.  in  1844. 

3.  George,  b.  in  1846. 

4.  Abigail  S.,  b.  in  1849. 

5.  Daniel,  b.  in  1851. 

6.  David,  b.  in  1854. 

7.  Charles  S.,  b.  in   1856;  was  a  blacksmith;  lived  in  Limerick; 
mar.  Ida  S .     Issue: 

1st.     Charles  L.,  b.  in  1877. 
2nd.     Willard  A.,  b.  in  1879. 

8.  James  E.,  b.  in  1858. 


302  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 
From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas.  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Samuel,  Samuel,  Edward. 
Edward  Brackett  was  born  in  1818,  in  Limerick;  married  Susan 
Hardy,  born  in  1822.      Issue: 

1.  Albert,  b.  in  1843. 

2.  Susan,  b.  in  1850. 

3.  Edward  G.,  b.  in  1848. 

4.  Frank  P.,  b.  in  1854. 

5.  Annette,  b.  in  1859. 

FAMILY     NO.    19. 

From  Family  No.  9.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Samuel,  John,  James  G. 
James  G.  Brackett  was  born  July  11,  1818,  in  Limerick;  was  a 
machinist;  lived  in  Biddeford;  is  deceased;  married  Elizabeth 
Thomas,  born  in  1823,  died  September  29,  1902,  daughter  of  Michael 
and  wife,  Elizabeth.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  C  b.  7  July,  1845;   is  dec. 

2.  Elizabeth  A.,  b.  2  Mar.,  1848. 

3.  Harriet  W.,  b.  21  Sept.,  1850;   d.  15  Aug.,  1895. 

4.  Lucy,  b.  in  1853;   d.  in  1853. 

5.  James  F.,  b.  1  Sept.,  1855;  is  a  machinist. 

FAMILY  NO.  20. 
P'rom  Family  No.  10.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel.  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Samuel,  David,  Thomas  R. 
Thomas  R.  Brackett  was  born  May  16,  1828,  in  Jackson,  Me.; 
was  a  shoemaker;  lived  in  Jackson,  Me.,  Manchester,  N.  H.,  Win- 
throp  and  Auburn,  Me.,  in  which  latter  place  he  died  March  13,  1899; 
married  April  16,  1854,  Irene  C.  Ramsdell,  born  February  19,  1829, 
daughter  of  Rufus  and  wife,  Alice  Bailey,  of  Leeds,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Herbert  Lee,  b.    14  Dec,  1856,   in  Winthrop,  Me.;    is  a  shoe- 
maker; home,  in  Auburn,  Me. 

2.  Charles  Linwood,  b.  16  Jan.,  1859;   mar.  Helen  S.  Chadbourne; 
resided  in  Roxbury,  Mass.,  to  his  death.  May  4,  1904.     Issue: 

1st.     Alice  D.\  b.  29  Aug.,  1889. 
2nd.     Marian  Irene,  b.  13  Mar.,  1893. 

FAMILY  NO.  21. 
From  Family  No.  10.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Samuel,  David,  David. 
David  Brackett,  a  Free  Will  Baptist  minister  of  Brooks,  Me., 
was  born  in  Jackson,  Me.,  February  1,  1837;  received  education  in 
public  schools;  at  the  age  of  forty-two  years  was  converted  and  at 
once  began  the  work  of  an  evangelist,  as  he  himself  says:  "without 
being  aware  of  the  fact  that  I  was  preaching."  He  was  successful  in 
his  labors;  there  were  those  among  his  converts  who  desired  the 
ordinance  of  baptism  and  "I  was  rather  forced  against  my  will  to 
enter  the  ministry,"  he  continues.  His  first  charge  was  at  Swanville, 
Me.  He  describes  how  his  labors  were  divided  among  several  locali- 
ties, thus — 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  303 

"Our  country  churches  unite  in  hiring  a  pastor;  he  preaches  at 
one  church  in  the  morning,  at  another  in  the  afternoon.  I  have  had 
lour  pastorates  at  one  time;  would  preach  at  two  churches  on  alter- 
nate Sundays.  I  was  with  the  Thorndike  church  for  sixteen  years, 
either  half  or  all  the  time;  with  the  church  at  Jackson  for  five  yearsj 
part  of  every  Sunday:  with  the  church  at  Monroe  for  five  years,  part 
of  every  Sunday;  also  with  churches  at  Montville,  Dixmont  and 
Knox.  My  last  pastorate  was  at  the  Woolwich  and  Wiscasset 
churches  *  *.  I  have  attended  more  than  a  thousand  funerals, 
officiated  at  about  one  hundred  fifty  marriages  and  administered  the 
ordinance  of  baptism  to  50  persons." 

Mr.  Brackett,  because  of  poor  health,  has  retired  from  the  minis- 
try, and  is  now  living  on  his  farm  in  Brooks,  Me. 

Married  November  3,  1859,  H.  A.  Page,  born  July  3,  1843, 
daughter  of  William  E.  and  wife,  Sally  Cram,  of  Jackson,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  William   A.,   b.    28  Apr.,    1861;   mar.   E.   M.   Porter;   home,   in 
Worcester,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Grace  M.,  b.  1 8  July,  1882. 

2.  Charles  S.,  b.  22   Feb.,  1867;   mar.   Bertha  E.  Pilley;   home,  in 
Newport,   Me.      Issue: 

1st.     Gail,  1).  in  July,  1S92. 

3.  Jenette  E.,  b.  8  Feb.,  1869;   mar.  Edwin  H.  Walker;  home,  in 
Brooks,  Me.      Issue: 

1st.      Harry  E..  b.  5  Oct..   1X94. 

4.  Olive  May,  b.    21    Feb.,   1875;   mar.   Aaron   B.   .Snow;   home,  in 
Jackson.  Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From   Family  No.   n.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Reuben,  Reuben,  Edward  A. 

Edward  Augustus  Brackett,  sculptor,  horticulturist,  piscicultur- 
ist, was  born  October  1,  1818,  in  Vassalboro,  Maine;  was  educated  in 
the  common  schools  of  that  town  and  at  the  Friends'  school  in  Provi- 
dence, R.  I.  His  father  removed  to  Lynn,  Mass.,  thence  to  Cin- 
cinnati, Ohio,  where  he  was  apprenticed  to  several  trades,  none  to  his 
liking  or  tastes.  He  had  tried  his  hand  at  modeling  in  clay,  and  his 
ambition  was  to  become  a  sculptor.  The  West  not  offering  enough 
encouragement  he  decided  to  go  to  Boston.  His  first  years  were  the 
usual  ones  of  a  struggling  artist,  with  the  gradual  rise  to  fame  and 
success.  The  greater  part  of  his  work  was  in  the  line  of  post  mortem 
busts,  in  which  he  excelled.  Among  those  of  note  which  he  produced 
are  of  Washington  Allston,  the  artist,  who  was  his  friend,  Richard  H. 
Dana,  Sr..  W.  C.  Bryant,  Eongfellow,  Choate,  Sumner,  Garrison, 
Wendell  Phillips,  B.  F.  Butler,  and  John  Brown.  An  account  of  his 
perilous  journey  to  Virginia  to  see  Brown,  can  be  found  in  Sanborn's 
Life  and  Letters  of  John  Brown.  Of  his  ideal  works  a  life-sized 
group  in  marble  called  the  Shipwrecked  Mother  and  Child,  purchased 
by  the  Boston  Athenaeum  and  still  in  its  possession,  was  his  first. 
The  Binding  of  Satan,  another  group,  was  not  satisfactory  to  him  and 
he  soon  destroyed  it.  Dickens'  Little  Nell,  a  statue  full  of  classic 
beauty  and  grace,  he  still  retains. 


304  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

During  his  early  life  as  an  artist  he  composed  considerable  poetry,, 
which  under  the  patronage  of  Richard  H.  Dana,  he  published  with 
the  title  of  "Twilight  Hours  of  an  Artist;"  a  few  of  the  poems  which 
appeared  in  the  volume  were  quite  popular  at  the  time  of  publication. 
Since,  he  has  written  many  articles  and  poems  for  newspapers  and 
magazines.  A  volume  of  poems  entitled  My  House;  Chips  the  Build- 
er Threw  Away,  and  a  charming  work  in  prose.  The  World  We  Dive 
In,  are  recent  works  of  his.  Of  late  years  his  pen  has  been  turned  to 
the  advocation  and  defense  of  spiritualism. 

Among  his  friends  of  his  artist  days  he  numbered  T.  B.  Reed, 
the  artist  and  poet,  Benj.  P.  Shillaber  (Mrs.  Partington),  Fanny  Fern, 
and  other  contemporaneous  artists  and  authors. 

The  proceeds  from  his  art  were  never  sufficient  to  meet  his 
wants;  his  spare  hours  were  required  to  obtain  the  necessities  of  an 
increasing  family.  He  purchased  land  in  Winchester,  near  Boston, 
and  started  a  nursery.  In  this  he  was  more  or  less  successful;  he 
added  several  varieties  of  strawberries  and  grapes,  and  was  the  first  in 
his  vicinity  to  successfully  raise  cucumbers  under  glass. 

He  had  been  experimenting  in  hatching  trout  and  with  the  aid 
of  Thomas  Talbot,  Emmons  Hamlin  and  others  made  arrangements 
to  experiment  on  a  larger  scale.  The  results  were  successful.  Mr. 
Talbot  was  elected  governor  and  appointed  him  (1871)  commissioner 
of  inland  fisheries,  a  position  he  has  held  to  the  present  date  (1906) 
although  in  his  eighty-eighth  year.  The  scope  of  the  commission 
was  enlarged  to  include  the  shore  fisheries  and  game.  His  strong 
originality  is  shown  in  his  methods  of  hatching  fish,  in  raising  Mon- 
golian pheasants,  quail  and  grouse  with  which  to  stock  the  state. 
For  this  work  he  is  notably  well  fitted  as  his  only  recreation  through 
life  is  with  his  rod  and  gun;  his  enjoyment  thereof  is  intensified  by 
his  deep  love  of  a  life  near  nature.  His  character  is  unique  and 
slightly  eccentric.  By  those  who  knew  him  as  an  artist  his  peculiari- 
ties were  spoken  of  as  the  eccentricities  of  genius.  Though  kind, 
generous  and  genial  he  has  an  indomitable  will  which  cannot  be 
changed  if  once  set.  Brought  up  in  strict  Quaker  faith,  the  habit  of 
independent  thought  has  made  the  dogmas  of  religion  especially  dis- 
tasteful to  him.  The  following  story  shows  a  line  of  reasoning  of  his. 
A  good  orthodox  deacon  passed  his  house  daily  in  taking  a  cow  to 
pasture,  and  many  were  the  arguments  they  had  on  religion.  One 
Sunday  morning  the  deacon  found  him  working  in  his  garden  and 
remonstrated.  A  few  weeks  later  the  deacon  worked  on  Sunday  to 
save  his  hay  from  spoiling.  "Why,  deacon"  said  Mr.  Brackett,  are 
you  working  on  Sunday?"  The  deacon  answered,  "Yes.  You  see 
that  thunder  storm  coming.  I  shall  lose  my  hay  if  I  do  not."  Mr. 
Brackett  asked,  "How  much  is  your  hay  worth?"  "Five  dollars," 
answered  the  deacon.  "Well,  deacon,"  said  Mr.  Brackett,  "I  do  not 
see  much  difference  between  us  in  our  working  on  Sunday  other  than 
that  I  work  on  that  day  for  my  pleasure  and  you  work  for  five  dol- 
lars." In  matters  social  and  religious,  and  also  in  the  matter  of 
dress  he  is  a  law  unto  himself. 

In  1862,  he  tendered  his  services  to  Governor  Andrews  and 
received  a  commission  as  battalion  quartermaster  of  the  First  Massa- 
chusetts volunteer  cavalry  with  rank  of  first  lieutenant,  a  position  he 
held  until  the  office  was  abolished. 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  305 

Married  (ist)  November  27,  1842,  Amanda  Folger,  who  died 
June  25,  1871,  was  daughter  of  Zaeheus  and  wife,  Betsey  Ross;  mar- 
ried (2nd)  August  1,  1872,  Elizabeth  F.  Bellville,  a  daughter  of  his 
first  wife's  sister.  Home,  in  Winchester.  Issue,  all  born  in  Win- 
chester except  Walter  F.: 

1.  Frank,  b.  16  Mar.,  1846;  mar.  19  Nov.,  1875,  Hannah  R. 
Beede;  home,  in  Worcester,  Mass.     No  issue. 

1'.     Walter  F.,  b.  7  Apr.,  1850.     See  family  32. 

3.  Lena  Rose,  b.  5  Oct.,  i860;  mar.  11  Feb.,  1891,  Harry  E. 
Wellington;  home,  in  Winchester,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Dorothy,  b.  24  Feb.,  1892. 
2nd.     Marshall  S.,  b.  22  Apr.,  1893. 
3d.     Barbara,  b.  26  Dec,  1895. 

4.  Bessie  Ross,  b.  -  — ;  mar.  14  Sept.,  1886,  Charles  S.  Parker; 
home,  in  Goffstown,  N.  H.      Issue: 

1st.     John  Edward,  b.  2  Aug.,  1887. 
2nd.     William  Folger,  b.  17  July,  1889. 
3d.     Harry  Stinson,  b.  7  Oct.,  1890. 
4th.      Mary  Stinson,  b.  23  Oct.,  1904. 

5.  Bertha,  b.  in  [875;  mar.  13  June,  1901,  Josef  Sandberg;  home, 
in  Boston. 


FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From  Family  No.   11.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Reuben,  Reuben,  Walter  M. 

Walter  Moses  Brackett  was  born  June  14,  1823,  in  Unity,  Maine; 
painter;  self-taught,  began  painting  in  1843,  and  attained  a  reputa- 
tion as  a  portrait  painter;  later  painted  game,  fish,  especially  salmon 
and  trout,  and  in  this  line  attained  celebrity,  particularly  by  the  pro- 
duction of  the  works  of  art  representing  the  capture  of  a  salmon,  viz: 
The  Rise;  The  Leap;  The  Struggle;  and  Lauded;  pictures  that 
brought  the  painter  fame.  The  set  became  the  property  of  Sir  Rich- 
ard Potter  and  was  awarded  a  medal  and  diploma  at  the  great  Fish- 
ery exposition  held  in  London;   also  was  hung  in  Crystal  Palace. 

(  )ne  of  the  founders  and  ex-presidents  of  the  Boston  Art  club; 
for  fifty  years  has  been  an  exhibitor  in  Boston,  New. York,  Philadel- 
phia, Vienna.  Loudon,  etc.;  awarded  medals  at  Universal  exhibition 
at  Vienna;  Centennial  exhibition  at  Philadelphia;  medal  and  diploma 
at  Fishery  exhibition,  London.  Works,  whose  subjects  are  fish,  trout 
and  salmon,  are  now  in  Crystal  Palace;  Queen's  Corridor;  Bucking- 
ham Palace;  collections  of  Lord  Dufferin,  Sir  Richard  Potter  and 
Liverpool  Art  association.  There  are  hung  in  the  War  Department 
portraits  of  the  first  four  secretaries  of  war  which  Mr.  Brackett  exe- 
cuted for  Mr.  Belknap,  viz.,  of  Timothy  Pickering,  Samuel  Dexter, 
General  Dearborn  and  Governor  Hustis.  For  many  years  has  lived 
in  Boston,  now  (1906)  at  154  Boylston  St.  Married  January  15,  1850, 
Maud  Louisa  Loring,  of  Boston,  daughter  of  Captain  Caleb  G.,  glass 
merchant,  and  wife,  Harriet  T.  Tuttle.  Issue: 
1.     Arthur  L.,  b.  15  Oct.,  1855.     See  family  33. 


306  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


FAMILY    NO.    24. 


From  Family  No.   n.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Reuben,  Reuben,  Gustavus  B. 

Gustavus  Benson  Brackett  was  born  March  24,  1827,  in  Unity, 
Me.;  pomologist,  educated  in  public  schools  of  Cincinnati  and  acad- 
emy in  Denmark,  Iowa.  In  1st  Missouri  Engineers  served  three 
years  in  civil  war,  mustered  out  November  2,  1864,  attained  the  rank 
of  captain;  after  close  of  the  war  served  in  Iowa  militia  with  rank  of 
lieutenant-colonel;  commissioner  in  charge  of  exhibits  at  Centennial 
exposition  at  Philadelphia;  United  States  commissioner  to  Paris 
exposition  of  1878;  delegate  at  large  from  Iowa  to  National  Cotton 
exposition  in  1885  at  New  Orleans;  represented  division  of  pomology, 
Department  of  Agriculture,  in  World's  Columbian  exposition  in  1893. 
Was  two  years  secretary  and  four  years  president  of  Iowa  State  Hor- 
ticultural society;  horticultural  expert  for  United  States  commission- 
ers to  Paris  exposition  in  1900.  Chief  of  pomology  division,  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture,  since  1897.  Home,  is  Denmark,  Iowa.  Married 
November  14,  1849,  Anna  Houston,  who  died  March  17,  1886. 
Issue: 

1.  Ella  Jane,    b.    18  Oct.,    1851;   mar.    3   Sept.,    1879,    Klark   H. 
Uouis;  she  d.  20  Mar.,  1880. 

2.  Alice  Eliza,  b.  28  Nov.,  1853;   mar.  29  Apr.,  1897,  Dr.  W.  H. 
Dewing. 

3.  Walter,  b.  18  Apr.,  1857;  d.  19  Nov.,  1857. 

4.  Bertha  Belle,  b.  6  Sept.,  i860;   d.  22  Jan.,  1865. 

5.  Belle  B.,  b.    12  June,  1866;  mar.  23  Oct.,  1890,  Clyde  R.  Joy; 
home,  in  Keokuk,  Iowa.     Issue: 

1st.     Ralph  B.,  b.  5  Sept.,  1891. 
2nd.     Mildred  Anna,  b.  31  Oct.,  1895. 
3d.     Carrol,  1).  15  Feb.,  1899. 

FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From  Family  No.   11.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Reuben,  Reuben,  George  C. 

George  Coleman  Brackett,  born  October  26,  1830,  in  Unity, 
Maine;  died  April  18,  1903,  in  Fresno,  California.  His  father 
removed  in  1837,  to  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  and  to  Denmark,  Iowa,  in  1841, 
where  he  engaged  in  the  nursery  business.  At  Denmark,  the  son 
began  the  study  of  horticulture,  and  laid  the  foundation  to  his  thor- 
ough practical  knowledge  of  plants  and  animals.  Received  his  educa- 
tion at  Denmark  academy  and  Amherst  (Mass.)  college.  In  1856, 
he  left  Iowa  for  California  by  the  overland  route;  at  the  time  the 
Kansas  excitement  was  at  its  height  and  upon  reaching  Dawrence, 
Kansas,  he  yielded  to  his  impulse  and  took  part  in  the  struggle. 
Years  passed  before  he  saw  California;  his  stay  in  Kansas  proved  a 
long  one.  From  1856  to  1859,  he  practiced  law;  in  i860,  he  turned 
his  attention  to  what  became  his  life's  work — horticulture;  his  were 
the  pioneer  nurseries  in  the  state.  As  early  as  i860,  he  organized  a 
county  (Douglas)  horticultural  society  and  for  twenty-six  years  was 
its  secretary,  its  mainstay.     In  1869,  was  organized  the  state  horticul- 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  307 

tural  society  and  he  was  chosen  its  secretary;  was  selected  for  the 
position  as  he  was  considered  the  one  the  best  equipped  of  any  of  the 
members  to  fulfill  its  duties.  He  organized  and  established  many 
societies  in  the  eastern  part  of  the  state.  In  1S91,  he  was  elected  to 
the  position  of  secretary  of  the  American  Pomological  society  and 
held  the  office  for  six  years — as  long  as  health  would  permit.  He 
removed  to  California  in  hopes  of  regaining  health,  but  the  dread 
cancer  had  already  begun  its  work,  and  after  five  years  of  patient 
suffering  he  passed  away. 

Married  (1st)  March  31,  1859,  Harriet  Gabrille,  of  Dundee,  N. 
Y.,  born  December  19,  1833,  died  March  18,  1867,  daughter  of  Alan- 
son  and  wife,  Permilla  Plummer;  married  (2nd)  September  20,  1868, 
Charlotte  Taylor,  of  Catskill,  N.  Y.,  who  survived  him.     Issue: 

1.  Milla  E.,  b.  5  Oct.,  i860;  mar.  4  Apr.,  1882,  James  H.  Pierson, 
b.  4  Apr.,  1854,  in  Newcastle,  Indiana,  son  of  Thomas  M.  and  wife, 
Elizabeth  J.  Barber,  connected  with  Fresno  Storage  and  Warehouse 
co.;   home,  in  Fresno,  Cal.;   formerly  lived  in  Lawrence,  Kas.     Issue: 

1st.     Edith  Elizabeth,  b.  26  May,  1883. 
2nd.     Ralph  Lawrence,  b.  7  Nov.,  188? 
3d.     Perry  Brackett,  b.  18  June,  1888. 
4th.     Hollis  Brackett,  b.  18  Mav  ■  1892. 
5th.     Dorothy  Lucile,  b.  ->t  Jan.,  1895. 
6th.     Leverett  T-:.,es,  o.  16  Nov.,  1898. 

2.  Edith  E.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1863;  mar.  13  Feb.,  1884,  John  F.  Doug- 
las.    Issue: 

1st.     Carroll  Brackett,  b.  27  Nov.,  1884. 
2nd.     Walter  Gustavus,  b.  10  July,  1889. 
3d.     Paul  Cleland,  b.  10  July,  1891. 

3.  Harold  Gabrille,  b.  17  Oct..  1865. 

FAMILY    NO.   26. 

From  Family  No.   11.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas.  Samuel.  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Reuben,  Reuben,  Arthur. 

Arthur  Brackett  was  born  April  19,  1847,  in  Denmark,  la.; 
removed  to  South  Dakota  in  1891,  thence  to  Excelsior,  Minn.,  in 
1895,  where  he  now  resides;  is  a  nurseryman  and  fruit-grower.  Mar- 
ried May  13,  1874.  Sadie  Davis,  born  March  29,  1853,  daughter  of 
Jacob  and  wife,  Mary  A.  Jarman.     Issue: 

1.  Claude  R.,  b.  22  Oct.,  1875. 

2.  Clarence  C,  b.  twin  with  Claude  R.;  mar.  12  Aug.,  1902. 
Gussie  Brittain;  home,  in  Minneapolis. 

3.  Evelyn,  b.  9  Aug.,  1877;  mar.  28  Jan.,  1903,  Arthur  B.  Ley- 
man;  home,  in  Excelsior,  Minn.     Issue: 

1st.     Richard  Brackett,  b.  14  Sept.,  1904. 

4.  Guy  A.,  b.  29  Aug.,  1879;  mar.  14  June,  1905,  Mary  A.  Hunt 
iugton;  home,  in  Marinette,  Wis. 

5.  Roy  D.,  b.  15  Sept.,  1881. 
0.     Walter  L.,  b.  18  Dec,  1886. 


308  BRACKETT  GENEALOGY 

FAMILY  NO.  27. 

From  Family  No.   n.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Reuben,  Reuben,  Charles  S. 

Charles  Sumner  Braekett  was  born  September  29,  1857,  in  Den- 
mark, Iowa;  is  a  merchant  in  Minneapolis;  home,  in  Kenwood  Park; 
married  August  3,  1879,  Ida  Chapman,  born  in  i860,  died  in  1886, 
aaughter  of  N.  B.  Chapman,  of  Atlantic,  Iowa.     Issue: 

L     Wellie  D.,  b.  24  Nov.,  1880. 

2. .    Alice  A.,  b.  22  June,  1884. 

3.     Ralph  C,  b.  27  Jan.,  1886. 

FAMILY  -NO.    28. 

From  Famiij  No.  12.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Sa  uuel,  Reuben,  Oliver,  Arthur  0. 
Arthur  O.  Bfcx.-kett  was  born  August  16,  1833,  in  Vassalboro, 
Me.;  during  the  yea  1833,  his  father  went  to  Ohio;  removed  from 
that  state  in  1853,  to  California,  where  he  remained  for  two  years 
when  he  returned  to  OIik  .  During  the  civil  war  was  in  the  internal 
revenue  service;  served  foi  one  hundred  days  in  128th  Ohio  volunteer 
infantry;  was  pay-master  on  Cincinnati  and  Zanesville  railroad  for 
two  years;  again  in  internal  revenue  service  for  four  years,  living  in 
Cincinnati.  In  1873,  removed  to  Texas  :,^r\  engaged  in  farming;  in 
1901  was  appointed  clerk  of  the  United  States  eoL.rt,  Eastern  district 
of  Texas,  which  position  he  holds  (1906).  Married  February  23, 
1869,  Joanna  W.  Finn,  born  Aug.  28,  1842,  died  January  18,  1905, 
daughter  of  William  and  wife,  Mary  Williams;  parents  resided  in 
Bainbridge,  Ireland,  to  the  early  fifties,  then  in  Cincinnati  until  their 
deaths.     Resides  in  Sherman,  Texas.     Issue: 

1.  William  Oliver,  b.  6  Sept.,  1870;  mar.  in  1895,  Elizabeth 
Moon;  home,  in  Sherman,  Texas.     Issue: 

1st.      Arthur  M.,  b.  about  1896. 

2nd.     John  C,  b.  about  1899. 

3d.     William  O.,  Jr.,  b.  about  1902. 

2.  Mary,  b.  in  1872. 

FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From  Family  No.    13.      Descent:      Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Joseph,  Joseph,  Reuben  F. 

Reuben  Franklin  Braekett  was  born  February  12,  1838,  in 
Brooks,  Me.  At  an  early  age  he  with  his  father's  family,  went  to 
Berwick,  where  he  now  lives;  is  a  farmer,  owns  and  resides  on  the 
farm  which  was  first  settled  on  by  his  ancestor,  Samuel  Braekett  who 
married  Sarah  Emery;  married  Fanny  Adeline  Bailey,  born  in  1837, 
died  December  25,  1872;   married  (2nd)  Louisa  S.  Totman.     Issue: 

1.  Joseph  Bailey,  b.  24  Mar.,  1864;  mar.  4  Oct.,  1887,  Sarah  Lulu 
Winn,  b.  24  Aug.,  1866,  dau.  of  James  A.  Winn.  Home,  in  Ber- 
wick.    Issue: 

1st.      Ruth,  b.  2  July,  1896. 

2.  Harry  Mortimer,  b.  15  May,  1867;  resides  in  Berwick. 


SAMUEL,    OF    BERWICK  309 

TENTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY     NO.    30. 

From  Family  No.   15.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Isaac,  Timothy,  Isaac  N. 

Isaac  N.  Brackett  was  born  February  27,  1841,  in  Limington; 
was  a  merchant  in  Cornish,  where  he  resided  at  the  time  of  his  death, 
June  25,  1899;  married  Eliza  J.  Stone,  born  January  22,  1840, 
daughter  of  Thomas  and  wife,  Eliza  Estes,  of  Cornish.     Issue: 

1.  vSadie,  b.  15  Apr.,  1862;   mar.  6  June,  1891,  William  R.  Copp- 
Issue: 

1st.     Lincoln  Brackett,  b.  22  Apr.,  1895. 

2.  Edwin   K..     b.    17  Aug.,    1864;     mar.    23   Dec,     1893,    Nettie 
Twitched;  is  a  clerk  in  Cornish,  Me. 


FAMILY    NO.    31. 

From  Family  Xo.    15.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Isaac,  Timothy,  Howard. 

Howard  Brackett  was  born  March  22,  1856,  in  Limington,  Me.; 
removed  to  Cornish,  Me.,  in  1862,  where  he  has  since  resided;  is 
register  of  deeds  of  York  county,  which  office  he  has  held  since  1904. 
During  a  period  of  twenty-five  years,  has  been  at  times,  clerk,  select- 
man, treasurer  and  superintendent  of  schools  of  the  town  of  Cornish; 
was  postmaster  for  four  years  by  appointment  of  President  Harrison, 
and  held  a  position  in  the  office  for  thirteen  years.  Married  January 
26,  1881,  Mary  Ella  Aver,  born  September  25,  1854,  daughter  of 
James  M.  and  wife,  Adeline  H.  Thompson,  of  Cornish.     Issue: 

1.  Mareia    E.,    b.    4   July,    [884;   mar.    7    Oct.,    1905,    Edward   F. 
Robinson;  home,  in  Dorchester,  Mass. 

2.  Genevieve  A.,  b.  8  Jan.,  1887. 

FAMILY    NO.    32. 

From  Family  No.  22.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel,'Samuel,  Reuben,  Reuben,  Edward  A.,  Walter  F. 

Walter  Folger  Brackett  was  born  April  7,  1850,  in  Cincinnati, 
Ohio;  educated  in  the  public  schools  of  Winchester;  graduated  in 
1878  from  the  Massachusetts  Normal  Art  school  in  Boston,  and  from 
Boston  Manual  Training  school  in  1893;  an  instructor  in  Massachu- 
setts Normal  Art  school,  of  Boston,  for  sixteen  years;  director  in  art 
in  public  schools  of  Cambridge,  for  four  years;  director  of  manual 
training  in  Haverhill,  Mass.,  for  seven  years;  has  also  been  instructor 
in  the  State  Reform  school  and  in  the  Concord  Reformatory  Home  at 
Melrose  Highlands.  Married  (1st)  July  25,  1877,  Jennie  C.  Starkey, 
who  died  in  childbirth  October  9,  1878.  Married  (2nd)  December  25, 
1884,  Mrs.  Mary  E.  Wellman,  who  died  September  7,  1890;  she  was 
the  widow  of  Charles  P.  Wellman,  a  Methodist  clergyman,  was  born 
in  Marblehead  and  reared  by  James  Gregory,  the  well-known  seeds- 


310  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

man;   married  (3d)  August  7,  1898,  Eva  May  Sloane,  a  public  reader 
and  teacher  of  elocution,  of  Daconia,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Karl  S.,  b.  9  Oct.,  1878;  married  Gertrude  Harding,  of  Haver- 
hill. Mass. 

2.  Hazel  May,  b.  9  Oct.,  1885,  in  Melrose,  Mass. 

3.  Ralph,  1).  12  June,  1887;  d.  1  May,  1888. 

4.  Walter  Folger,  b.  11  Sept.,  1889;  d.  16  June,  1890. 

5.  Paul,  b.  14  June,  1900. 

6.  Pauline,  b.  twin  with  Paul. 

FAMILY   NO.    33. 

From  Family  No.  23.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Samuel,  Reuben,  Reuben,  Walter  M.,  Arthur. 

Arthur  Brackett  was  born  October  15,  1855;  is  an  artist;  home, 
in  Boston;  married  Anne  Gertrude  Staples,  of  Portland,  daughter  of 
Charles  and  wife,  Fernald.     Issue: 

1.  Philip  L-oring,  b.  30  June,  1885. 

2.  Herbert  Allen,  b.  15  Sept.,  1887. 

3.  Arthur  Lawrence,  b.  15  Jan.,  1895. 

4.  Donald,  b.  3  Aug.,  1897. 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  311 


DIVISION    NO.    11. 


DEACON  JAMES   BRACKETT   OF  BERWICK  AND 
HIS  DESCENDANTS. 


SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 

From  Chapter  VIII.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James. 

James  Braekett  was  born  April  io,  1726;  was  baptized  January 
26,  1728,  in  Berwick,  Me.;  resided  in  the  town  for  sixty-eight  years; 
in  1794.  with  his  youngest  son,  John  Braekett,  he  removed  to  Vassal- 
boro,  Kennebec  count}-,  where  he  dwelt  for  sixteen  years;  in  18 10, 
when  said  son  John  removed  from  Vassalboro  to  China,  Me.,'  he 
accompanied  him;  in  China  he  dwelt  for  fourteen  years,  and  died 
there  January  3,  1825,  having  attained  the  ninety-eighth  }^ear  of  his 
age. 

In  Berwick,  Deacon  James  was  a  farmer;  from  an  early  day  in 
his  life  he  attained  social  and  political  prominence.  The  first  men- 
tion in  the  town  records  of  his  holding  office,  is  that  in  the  year  1763, 
he  was  chosen  selectman;  during  the  following  few  years  the  records 
disclose  that  he  held  two  minor  offices,  for  one  term  each;  one  was 
constable  in  1766.  For  eight  years  following  1770,  he  was  in  office 
continuously.  Appointed  juryman  in  1771,  1773  and  1774;  elected 
constable  in  1 7 7 1 .  and  re-elected  each  year  until  his  services  were 
needed  in  the  conduct  of  an  office  which  the  crisis  of  the  times 
required  to  be  filled  by  a  man  of  courage,  and  devotion  to  country. 
From  the  commencement  of  the  struggle  between  the  Colonies  and 
Great  Britain,  this  James  Braekett  cast  his  fortune  with  the  former. 
Well  did  he  know  what  were  the  horrors  of  war,  for  he  had  been  a 
soldier  in  the  last  conflict  with  the  French  and  Indians  (1754-1763). 
In  the  seventies  he  was  past  the  duty  age  in  the  field;  but  no  man 
in  Berwick  performed  a  part  better  than  did  this  Baptist  deacon,  in 
sustaining  the  cause  of  the  Colonies.  In  1772,  a  law  was  approved 
for  the  payment  of  the  salaries  of  certain  provincial  dignitaries,  among 
others  the  salaries  of  the  judges  of  the  supreme  court,  and  of  the 
attorney  general,  out  of  revenues  (taxes  on  imported  articles)  which 
were  considered  by  the  people,  as  raised  in  an  unconstitutional  way. 
The  citizens  of  several  towns  in  Maine  and  Massachusetts  manifested 
their  opposition  in  different  ways, — at  Berwick  by  "24  of  the  leading 
citizens  in  calling  a  town  meeting  to  take  measures  for  the  removal 
of  the  grievance.  Those  who  were  the  first  (thus)  to  show  their 
loyalty  to  the  people  were  *  *  *  ,  James  Braekett,  *  *  ,  Isaac 
Braekett,   *  *  *   ,  Samuel  Braekett." 

In  1774,  was  passed  the  Boston  port  bill.  By  the  act,  the  port  of 
Boston  was  closed  to  commerce  as  though  by  blockade.  It  entailed 
great  suffering  on  the  inhabitants  of  the  offending  city.     The  people 


•'ill'  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

of  the  surrounding  towns  at  once  took  steps  to  relieve  the  wants  of 
the  distressed,  and  sent  overland  to  Boston  droves  of  hogs,  sheep  and 
cattle.  In  Berwick,  rebel  Deacon  James  was  one  of  six  persons 
appointed  in  1774.  as  a  committee  to  receive  the  "donations  of  the 
inhabitants  of  Berwick  and  to  transmit  the  same  to  the  distressed  peo- 
ple of  Boston."  He,  of  course,  gave  freely,  added  to  the  sheep  the 
committee  received,  several  from  his  own  flock,  and  superintended 
the  driving  of  the  donations  to  their  destination;  hence,  the  tradition 
that  Janus  Brackett  drove  a  flock  of  sheep  to  Boston  which  he  gave 
to  the  famishing  people. 

The  following  year,  1775,  he  was  chosen  selectman,  was  chosen 
to  the  same  office  in  1776,  again  in  1777,  and  again  in  1778.  So  long 
as  danger  threatened,  he  was  one  of  the  men  chosen  for  the  office 
whose  duties  involved  the  performance  of  the  most  efficient  service  in 
a  civil  way.  for  the  support  of  the  army  and  the  provincial  authorities. 
He  was  juryman  in  1785,  as  the  records  read, — the  last  mention  they 
contain  as  to  his  holding  town  office. 

It  has  been  stated  that  Deacon  James  served  as  a  soldier  during 
the  last  French  and  Indian  war.  He  was  thirty  years  old  when  the 
war  commenced.  It  is  not  known  in  what  company  he  served,  but  it 
is  thought  that  the  evidence  we  have  shows  that  he  took  part  in  the 
war;  at  that  period,  men  of  military  age  on  the  frontier  did  not  shirk 
duty.  The  writer  was  told  the  following  anecdote  by  one  in  whom 
he  has  implicit  confidence: 

"When  a  soldier  in  the  French  and  Indian  war,  Deacon  James 
Brackett  was  detailed  for  a  time  as  teamster.  While  he  was  with  the 
wagon  train  a  party  of  Indians  maneuvered  so  as  to  successfully 
attack  that  part  of  the  train  where  he  was,  and  his  chance  of  escape 
was  by  running.  With  his  goad-stick  in  his  hand  he  ran  at  the  top 
of  his  speed  pursued  by  an  Indian,  who  had  his  tomahawk  ready  for 
use  and  was  wratching  for  an  opportunity  to  throw  or  strike  with 
deadly  effect;  so  intent  was  he  on  his  purpose,  that  when  quite 
abreast  of  Deacon  James  he  did  not  see  in  his  course  a  fallen  tree, 
which  with  a  spring  the  Deacon  cleared,  and  he  tripped  and  fell  over; 
before  he  recovered  to  act,  Deacon  James  brained  him  where  he  lay, 
with  the  goad-stick." 

The  gun  which  Deacon  James  carried  during  the  war  was  pre- 
served for  many  years;  as  long  as  he  lived  he  had  it  with  him  in  Ber- 
wick, in  Yassalboro,  and  in  China.  Upon  his  death  the  gun  became 
the  property  of  his  grandson,  Allen  Brackett;  ultimately  the  place 
where  it  was  kept  was  in  a  barrel  in  a  shed  on  the  house.  About  the 
year  1850,  Allen's  sons  utilized  the  old  relic  for  the  purposes  of  a 
cannon,  in  celebrating  the  Fourth  of  July  of  that  year,  and  thorough- 
ly demolished  it. 

When  Deacon  James  and  his  wife  went  from  Berwick  to  Yassal- 
boro, in  1794,  they  made  the  journey  on  horseback,  he  in  the  saddle, 
and  she  seated  behind  him  on  a  pillion.  Such  is  the  tradition  with 
his  descendants,  through  his  son  James,  and  the  latter' s  daughter, 
Mary  Beal  Land). 

He  was  quite  well  versed  in  the  history  of  the  family;  well 
remembered  his  grandfather,  Samuel  Brackett;  delighted,  in  his  old 
age,  to  relate  accounts  of  Indian  wars,  at  about  whose  commence- 
ment said  grandfather  was  born;   told  the  accounts  correctly,  too  (as 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  313 

the  writer  has  learned),  and  had  a  good  listener  in  his  grandson, 
James  Hervey  Brackett,  who  passed  them  on  down  the  line. 

In  stature  he  was  below  the  average  height  of  men,  and  was  slim 
of  figure;  in  advanced  age  was  a  little  old  man,  and  in  the  last  years 
of  his  life  was  withered  and  feeble  in  the  extreme;  he  had  the  use  of 
his  mental  faculties  to  the  last.  For  some  years  before  his  death,  at 
meals  he  sat  by  himself  at  a  small  table,  because  of  the  shaking  of 
his  arms  and  hands.     The  table  has  been  preserved. 

It  is  thought  that  Deacon  James,  like  his  son  John,  was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Baptist  church;  that  he  was  deacon  of  a  Baptist  church  in 
Berwick.     In  China  he  was  spoken  of  as  Deacon  James  Brackett. 

He  and  his  wife  died  in  China;  their  graves  are  in  the  cemetery 
in  China  village,  in  a  select  part,  and  are  faithfully  tended  and  cared 
for  b}^  Theron  and  Annie  Doe,  their  great-grandchildren;  to  them  is 
due  a  debt  of  gratitude  by  the  one  thousand  descendants  of  the  dea- 
con and  his  wife. 

Married  April  10,  1750,  Margary  Lord,  baptized  November  10, 
1736,  in  Berwick,  died  July  7,  1816,  in  China,  Me.,  daughter  of  Ben- 
jamin; he  married  January  10,  1709,  Patience  Nason,  was  son  of 
Nathan;  he  is  thought  to  have  come  from  county  of  Kent,  England, 
with  Abraham  Conley,  whose  daughter,  Judith,  was  his  first  wife; 
married  (2nd)  Margary  Everett;  died  about  1690,  aged  eighty-seven 
years;  was  a  prominent  man  and  held  several  civil  offices.  Patience 
Nason,  born  November  10,  1693,  was  daughter  of  Benjamin;  he  mar- 
ried Martha  Kenney;  was  son  of  Richard  Nason,  the  immigrant. 
Margary  Everett  was  daughter  of  William,  the  immigrant,  and  wife, 
Margary  -  — -.  Martha  Kenney,  perhaps,  was  daughter  of  Thomas 
Kenney,  or  Carney,  Jr.,  and  wife,  Sarah  Taylor.     Issue: 

1.  Joseph,  b.  6  June,   1751.     See  family  2. 

2.  Patience,  b.  20  May,  1753;  d.  young. 

3.  Patience,  b.  6  Aug.,  1755,  in  Berwick;  bapt.  7  Aug.,  1757; 
mar.  in  Feb.,  1777,  the  Rev.  Mr.  Wentworth  Lord,  b.  14  Sept.,  1755,  in 
Berwick,  d.  28  Feb.,  1845,  youngest  son  of  Abraham  Lord;  he  mar. 
Betsev  Davis  of  Portsmouth,  d.  in  1783,  was  son  of  Capt.  Samuel 
Lord;'  he  was  b.  14  June,  1689,  mar.  19  Oct.,  1710,  in  Kittery,  Martha 
Wentworth,  d.  before  7  Sept.,  1764,  was  son  of  Nathan;  he  mar.  22 
Nov.,  1678,  Martha,  dan.  of  Richard  Tozier  and  wife,  Judith  Smith. 
Martha  Wentworth  was  b.  9  Feb.,  1684,  was  dau.  of  Paul  and  wife, 

Catherine ;  he  was  son  of  Elder  William,  the  immigrant,  b.  about 

1655,  d.  about  1750.  The  Rev.  Wentworth  Lord  was  a  Continental 
soldier.  First  term  of  service  was  in  the  year  1775,  Ebenezer  Sulli- 
van's companv,  Colonel  Scammon's  regiment;  served  for  seven 
months.  Upon  the  expiration  of  said  term,  immediately  re-enlisted 
to  serve  for  one  year  under  same  company  officers,  Colonel  Patterson's 
regiment.  Re-enlisted  10  Dec,  1775,  discharged  1  Jan.,  1777.  In 
his  application  for  pension,  he  related  that  his  first  term  of  service  was 
passed  in  the  vicinity  of  Boston.  That  in  Colonel  Patterson's  regi- 
ment:— 

"I  marched  *  *  *  by  the  way  of  New  York  and  Albany  to 
Montreal.  Soon  after  our  arrival  at  Montreal,  in  the  year  1776,  I 
was  with  manv  others  captured  bv  some  British  troops  and  Indians 
on  our  march  to  relieve  a  fort  at  the  Cedars;  was  detained  a  prisoner 
of  war  among  the  Indians,  eight  days  when  I,  with  another,  made  my 


314  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

escape  nearly  naked.  From  Montreal  I  was  directed  to  Tieonderoga. 
Finding  no  clothing  there  I  obtained  a  furlough  to  return  home  to 
Berwick.  I  was  taken  with  the  smallpox  on  the  way  but  reached 
home  and  as  soon  as  I  recovered  I  returned  and  joined  my  regiment 
at  Tieonderoga.  The  regiment  soon  after  being  ordered  southward, 
I  marched  with  it  to  Albany,  IJsopus,  through  New  Jersey  and  across 
the  Delaware.  On  the  night  of  the  25th  of  December  I  was  with  the 
regiment  and  the  army  under  General  Washington;  recrossed  the 
Delaware;  was  at  the  capture  of  the  Hessian  troops  at  Trenton. 
My  term  of  service  of  one  year  expired  soon  after  this  event,  and  I 
was  honorably  discharged  about  the  close  of  the  year  1776,  to  the 
best  of  my  recollection.  I  served  in  the  capacity  of  sergeant.  My 
discharge  was  in  writing  but  is  lost."  Statement  made  under  date  of 
7  May,  [818.  In  July,  1820,  stated  his  age  to  be  64  years,  and  his 
wife's  age  63.  Was  a  Baptist  minister;  home,  in  Parsonsfield.  She 
d.  8  Feb.,  1S41 .     Issue: 

Lst.     Noah,  is  dec. 

2nd.      Wentworth,  b.  ;  mar.   Nay;    lived  in  Tamworth,   N. 

H.:   had  children. 

3d.  Betsey,  b.  7  Dec,  1781;  mar.  Codeman  Young;  she  was 
living  in  1S75,  with  her  dau.,  Betsey  J.,  wife  of  Ira  Woodman,  of 
Sanbornton,  N.  H. 

4th.  Abraham,  mar.  (1st)  Elizabeth  Dodge;  (2nd)  her  sister 
Susan;  lived  in  Beverly,  Mass.,  and  had  children. 

5th.  Hannah,  b.  8  Jan.,  1788;  mar.  James  Harries,  b.  11  July, 
1788,  d.  9  Nov.,  1804;  she  d.  29  Oct.,  1866.  Children  were,  Sally  L.; 
Abigail  S.;  Hannah  L.;  James  M.;  Sarah  J.;  and  Joshua  B. 

6th.  James,  b.  16  Mar.,  1789;  lived  in  Ossipee,  N.  H.;  d.  18 
Sept.,  1857. 

7th.  Lydia,  b.  1  Oct.,  1791;  mar.  Cutting  Moulton,  who  d.  in 
March,  1854;  mar.  (2nd)  Colonel  Bartlett  Doe,  who  d.  in  Feb.,  1873, 
whom  she  survived  several  years. 

8th.  George,  b.  22  Nov.,  1793;  mar.  Patience  Titcomb;  lived 
in  Ossipee,  N.  H.;  d.  1  July,  1863. 

9th.  Patience,  b.  4  May,  1796;  mar.  Moses  Brown;  lived  in 
( >ssipee,  N.  H.,  and  d.  soon  after  marriage. 

10th.  Margaret,  b.  4  May.  1796;  mar.  John  Morrison;  lived  in 
Moultenborough,  N.  H. 

11th.      Sally,  who  d.  young. 

12th.  Jemima  P.,  b.  10  July,  1802;  mar.  John  Brackett  (see 
lam.  21 ,  div.  8  ). 

4.  Lydia,  b.  16  Mar.,  1760;   d.  young. 

5.  Stephen,  b.  11  Apr.,  1762;  d.  young. 
<i.     James,  b.  2  Apr.,  1764.     See  family  3. 

7.  Lydia,  b.  24  Mar.,  1767,  in  Berwick;  d.  24  Jan.,  1839,  in  Leb- 
anon, Me.;  mar.  24  Sept.,  1786,  Benj.  Stanton,  Jr.;  upon  his  death 
mar.  (  2nd  )  2  Feb.,  1799,  Caleb  Wentworth,  widower.  Children  were, 
lst.  James,  who  had  son,  Benjamin,  who  had  dau.  Lillie  Brackett 
Stanton,  b.  9  Feb.,  1861,  also  had  dau.  Lydia  Brackett  Stanton,  who 
mar.  John  C.  White,  of  Gorham;  and  son  James  Brackett  Stanton,  b. 
4  Oct.,  1S24.  2nd.  Dorcas,  who  mar.  Levi  Wentworth.  3d.  Sarah 
Wentworth,  who  d.  12  June,  1804.  4th.  Mary,  who  mar.  Jonathan 
Winn. 

8.  John,  1).  16  Aug.,  1769.     See  family  4. 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  315 

SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.  i.     Descent:     Anthony.  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph. 

Joseph  Brackett  was  born  June  6,  1751,  and  baptized  May  20, 
1755,  in  Berwick;  was  a  farmer;  settled  in  Ossipee,  N.  H.,  where  he 
died  May  3,  1S16.  Served  as  a  private  in  Captain  Ebenezer  Sullivan's 
company,  Colonel  James  Scammon's  regiment;  enlisted  May  5,  1775, 
as  shown  by  company  return  and  muster-roll  dated  August  1,  1775. 
Also  served  as  a  private  in  Captain  Samuel  Grant's  company,  Colonel 
Storer's  regiment;  enlisted  August  14,  1777;  discharged  November 
30,  1777,  at  Queman's  heights;  service,  four  months  and  three  days 
with  the  Northern  army,  participated  in  the  campaign  which  resulted 
in  the  surrender  of  Burgoyne's  army.  Married  February  21,  1782, 
Jemima  Roberts,  born  March  19,  1763,  died  at  Ossipee,  June  19,  1796, 
daughter  of  Joshua;  he  was  born  about  1726,  moved  from  Berwick  to 
Kennebunk,  Me.,  about  1803,  and  died  there  at  the  house  of  his  son 
Joshua;  married  Ruth  Smith,  daughter  of  John,  born  January  8,  1714, 
married  November  26,    1734,   Elizabeth  Libby,  was  son  of  John;  he 

was  born  26  July,  1685,  married  Elizabeth ,  and  lived  in  Berwick; 

with  his  mother,  was  carried  captive  to  Montreal  and  was  baptized 
there  May  3,  1693,  was  sou  of  James;  he  married  Martha  Bragdon 
and  settled  in  York,  was  son  of  James;  he  was  granted  land  in  1669, 
was  living  in  Berwick  in  [668,  died  in  1687;  married  Martha  Wells, 
horn  January  18,  1653,  in  Bristol,  Hug.;  she  married  (2nd)  Christo- 
pher Grant,  was  captured  by  the  Indians  November  18,  1690,  was 
daughter  of  Thomas,  of  Exeter,  Eng.,  and  wife,  Mary  Wadel. 

JUizabeth  Libby  was  daughter  of  Matthew;  he  was  born  in  Scar- 
boro.  Me.,  in  1663,  settled  in  Kittery,  on  the  Bay  land,  died  in  March, 
1 740-1,  married  Elizabeth  Brown,  was  sou  of  John;  he  was  born  in 
England  about  1602,  came  to  Richmond  island  in  1631  in  the  employ 
of  John  Winter,  settled  at  Black  point  in  Scarboro,  in  1640,  and  died 
in  1682.     Elizabeth  Brown  was  daughter  of  Andrew  Brown. 

Joseph  Brackett  married  (2nd)  December  27,  1797,  Anna  Winch- 
ell,  born  in  1770.  in  Waterboro,  Me.,  died  in  Ossipee,  N.  H.,  daughter 
of  Job;  he  was  probably  born  in  Hartford  county,  Conn.;  died  in 
Munroe,  Me.;  was  a  teacher,  married  in  1768,  Sarah  Hobbs,  was  son 
of  Job;  he  was  a  man  of  education;  was  teacher  in  Hartford  and  in 
Berwick;  was  a  Continental  soldier,  taken  prisoner  and  confined  in 
famous  prison  ship  "Jersey"  where  he  suffered  fate  of  so  many  of  his 
comrades;  was  sou  of  Samuel  (or  Robert)  the  immigrant.     Issue: 

1.  Margaret,  b.  27  Dec,  1782;  mar.  Thomas  Wiggin,  of  Wake- 
field. Had  Joseph  Brackett;  Asa;  Thomas;  Oliver;  Lewis;  Isaiah; 
William;  Jemima;    Eliza:  Sally;    and  three  who  died  in  infancy. 

2.  James,  b.  30  Mar.,  1784.     See  family  5. 

3.  John,  b.  9  Feb.,  1786.     See  family  6. 

4.  Hiram,  b.  14  Feb.,  1788.     See  family  7. 

5.  Mary,  b.  8  Apr.,  1790;  mar.  in  1807,  Samuel  Hurd,  shoemaker, 

b.   22   Mar.,  1784,   d.  25   Feb.,  1869,   son  of  Tristram  and  wife,  

Hooper,  of  Berwick;  he  lived  in  Ossipee,  Berwick,  and  Somersworth, 
N.  H.;  she  d.  18  Aug.,  1868.     Issue: 


316  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.     Jemima,  never  mar.;  is  dec. 

2nd.     Joshua,   mar.  Eliza  Fogg;   mar.  (2nd)  Lucy  Roberts;   d.  14 
Apr.,   1893.      Issue: 

I.  Charles  EL,  who  d.  soon  after  the  civil  war. 

II.  Edwin  F.,  who  was  killed  in  the  battle  of  Gettysburg,  2 
July,  1863. 

III.  Albert  E.  J.,   home,  in  Somersworth,  N.  H. 

IY.      Lucy  Helen,   mar.  Sage;  home,  in  Dover,  N.  H. 

Y.      Lettie  E.,   dec.  in  1871,  in  New  Orleans. 
3d.     Elizabeth,   never  mar.;  d.  16  Jan.,  1899. 
4th .      Sarah  Roberts,  b.   18  Jan.,  1819;  mar.  30  Oct.,  1849,  John 
Smith  Pear.     Issue: 

I.  Charles  M.,  home,  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 

II.  John  Brackett,   is  dec. 

III.  George  A.,  is  dec. 

5th.     Mary,   mar.  John  Billman;  d.  25  Sept.,  1896.     Issue: 

I.  Isabelle,   mar. Whitney;  home,  in  Melrose,  Mass. 

II.  Grace  C,   is  dec. 

III.  Gertrude,   mar. Leeds;  home,  in  Newton,  Mass. 

6th.     Lydia,   home,  in  Cambridge. 

7th.     Lucy  M.,  b.    11   Feb.,  1828;  d.   2  Aug.,  1870;  mar.  James 
H.  Jones,  who  d.  12  Jan.,  1872.     Issue: 

I.  Cora  L-,  mar.  20  Nov.,  1876,  C.  Fred  Carter,  of  Boston, 
who  d.  13  May,  1879,  in  Paris,  France;  mar.  (2nd)  22  Jan.,  1884, 
Charles  M.  Webber,  of  Chicago,  who  d.  7  May,  1903;  home,  on 
Astor  street,  Chicago.     Issue: 

a.  Cora  Marie  Carter,  b.    15  Feb.,    1878,  in  Boston;  d.  25 
Nov.,  1878. 

b.  Stella  Jones  Webber,  b.  1  Feb.,  1888,  in  Chicago. 

II.  Emma  B.,  d.  -,o  Nov.,  1881. 

III.  Lillie  E.,  d.  25  Feb.,  1871. 

IV.  Stella,  b.  24  Feb.,  1861;  mar.  20  Apr.,  1903,  Angus 
MacColl,  of  New  York  city;   home,  in  Brooklyn. 

8th.     Annie  E.,  home,  in  Cambridge. 
9th.     George  W.,  b.  13  Oct.,  1835. 

6.  Joseph,  b.  4  Mar.,  1792.      See  family  8. 

7.  Lydia,  b.  4  Mar.,  1794;  mar.  12  Nov.,  1812,  John  Hill,  b. 
23  Oct.,  1783,  d.  16  Nov.,  1864,  son  of  Ebenezer  and  wife,  Sarah 
Bryant,  of  Wakefield,  N.  H.,  wThere  she  d.  17  Jan.,  1871.     Issue: 

1st.     Dolly,  b.  19  Apr.,  1814;  d.  26  July,  1817. 
2nd.     James  Brackett,  b.   30  Dec,    1815;   mar.   Sarah  A.   Crom- 
mett;  d.  2  Mar.,  1892,  in  Wakefield.     Issue: 

I.  John  Hubbard,   home,  in  Boston. 

II.  Joseph  Franklin,   home,  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

III.  Wilbur  Morton,  home,  in  Worcester,  Mass. 

IV.  James  Brackett,  Jr.,   home,  in  Brookliue,  Mass. 

V.  Harriet,  who  mar.  Harrington;  home,  in  Franklin,  N.  H. 

VI.  Mina  Paulina,  b.  8  Sept.,  1850,  in  Patten,  Maine;  home, 
in  Chelsea,  Mass.;  mar.  1  Feb.,  1879,  Alexander  R.  Frost,  b.  30  Nov., 
1840,  d.  30  Nov.,  1898.     No  issue. 

.'-id.     Harriet,  b.  3  Apr.,  181 7;  d.  1  Nov.,  1832. 
4th.     Hannah,    b.    15   Aug.,    1819;  mar.    Stephen   Jones;  d.    14 
Apr.,  1892,  in  Lebanon,  Me.     Issue: 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  317 

I.  Herbert  Braekett,  d.  at  age  of  30  years  in  Kansas  city,  Mo. 

II.  Annie  E.,   who  mar.  Hayes;  home,  in  Kansas  city,  Mo. 
5th.     John,  b.  8  Aug.,  1821;   d.  31  June,  1833,  in  Wakefield. 
6th.     Lydia,  b.  21  May,  1823;  mar.  Enoch  Severance;  mar.  (2nd) 

Burbank,   is  dec;  home,   in   Woodman,   N.   H.;   supplied  data 

relative  to  descendants  of  her  mother;  had  two  children  by  first  hus- 
band, both  dec. 

7th.  Eliza,  b.  7  Mar.,  1825;  mar.  27  Nov..  1873,  Henry  Chase, 
b.  29  Nov.,  1809,  d.  27  June,  1890;  home,  in  Woodman,  N.  H. 

8th.  Jemima  W.,  b.  28  June,  1827;  mar.  John  C.  Philbrick;  d. 
25  May, ,  in  Wakefield. 

9th.     Dolly  P.,  b.  1  Sept.,  1829;  is  dec. 

10th.     Charles  H.,  b.  9  Dec,  1832;   d.  14  Apr.,  1844. 

11th.      Harriet  Susan,  b.  12  Apr.,  1834;   d.  15  May,  1849. 

12th.     John  A.,  b.  23  May,   1837;  d.  5  Feb.,  1842. 

13th.  Joseph  C,  b.  3  Aug.,  [838;  mar.  Adaline  Morrison;  d. 
13  Dec,  1887.     Issue: 

I.  Lydia  Susan,   home,  in  Dover,  N.  H. 

II.  Sanborn,   is  dec. 

8.     Charlotte,  b.  15  Apr.,    1799;  mar.   Ham  Garland;  d.   25  Aug., 
1856.     No  issue. 

0.      Levi,  b.  15  Apr.,   [800.      Sec  family  9. 

10.  Betsey  L.,  b.  8  Sept.,  1802,  in  Ossipee,  N.   H.;  mar.  1  Nov., 

1S27,  Jacob  j.  Bodge,  a  Free  Will  Baptist  minister,  b.  28  June,  , 

d.  16  Sept.,  1884,  son  of  David  and  wife,  Polly  Bean;  resided  in 
Farmington,  Ossipee  and  Tamwortri,  N.  H.;  she  d.  5  July,  1886. 
Issue: 

1st.  Charlotte  J.,  b.  14  Apr.,  1832,  in  Wakefield;  mar.  3  Nov., 
1852,  Asa  Folsom,  machinist,  b.  6  Oct.,  1828,  d.  27  Apr.,  1873,  son 
of  Andrew  and  wile.  Sally  Hodsdon,  of  Ossipee.     Issue: 

I.  Mary  Idella,  b.  24  July,  1S54;  mar.  8  Oct.,  1883,  Fred  H. 
Jenness;   home,  in  Wolfboro,  X.  H. 

II.  Arthur  K..  b.  8  Jan.,  1862;  home,  in  Concord,  N.  H. 

III.  Edna   G.,    1).   4   May,    1869;   mar.    12   Nov.,    1887,   Leroy 
M.  Beattie,  b.  10  Apr..   [860;   home,  in  Ashland,  N.  H.     Issue: 

a.  John  Roland,  b.  30  Aug.,  1889. 

b.  Vance  Bertram,  b.  14  June,  1891. 

c.  Ruth  Charlotte,  1).  14  June,  1895. 

d.  Ruby  Idella,  b.  3  Jan.,  1898. 

2nd.  Mary  A.,  b.  23  Dec,  1833;  mar.  Charles  Clark;  d.  20 
Apr.,  1872.     Had  children.  William;   Lilly;  and  Hattie. 

3d.  Joseph  F.,  b.  1  Mar.,  1838,  in  Middleton,  N.  H.;  is  a  car- 
penter; mar.  14  Nov.,  1874,  Jennie  Nichols,  b.  4  Mar.,  1850,  dau.  of 
James  and  wife,  Mary  I).  Lord,  of  Ossipee.     Issue: 

I.  Arthur  W.,  b.  3  Aug.,  1875. 

II.  Charles  F.,  b.  2  Julv,  1877. 

III.  Fred  G.,  b.  18  Aug.,  1880. 

IV.  James  E.,  b.  7  Feb.,  1889. 

11.  Azriah,  b.  21  Apr.,  1804.      See  family  10. 

12.  Thomas,  b.  11  Jan.,  1807.     See  family  11. 

13.  Sally,  b.  20  Oct.,  180S;   mar.   (1st)   11  Oct.,  1835,  Wentworth 
Hayes;    (2nd)  Benjamin  Mason;  lived  in  Lowell.     Issue: 

1st.     Charles  Hayes,  who  d.  at  the  age  of  18  years. 


318  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2nd.      Wentworth;  is  unmar. 

3d.      Edward,   mar.    Alice ;   is    dec.     Had    five  children    of 

whom  three  are  living  viz.,  Charles;    Fred;   and  Eva. 

4th.      Alon/.o;   who  d.  young. 

5th.      Hiram,    mar.  Emma  Kennison.      Issue: 
I.      Solon. 
14.     Jemima    Lord,    b.    2    Aug.,    1810,    in   Ossipee,    N.    H.;  mar. 
Charles  Hosea  Shorey,  Jr.,  a  merchant,  b.  3  Nov.,  1808,  d.  17  June, 
1866,  son  of  Charles  Hosea  Shorey  and  wife.  Molly  Chick,  of  Berwick, 
Me.;   resided  in  Great  Falls,  N.  H.,  and  Lowell,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Hiram,  who  d.  at  the  age  of  10  years. 

2nd.     Mary,  who  d.  in  infancy. 

3d.     Charles,  who  d.  in  infancy. 

4th.  Lorenzo,  b.  9  Nov.,  1834;  mar.  in  1856.  Eliza  Morrill;  he 
d.  5  Sept.,  1883.     Had  two  daughters  both  of  whom  d.  young. 

5th.  Harriet,  b.  5  May,  1838;  mar.  in  1863,  William  Lovejoy; 
he  d.  in  1869.  Had  three  sons  of  whom  Charles  is  living;  two  died 
young. 

6th.  Ellen,  b.  27  Feb.,  1842;  mar.  in  1866,  Henry  Carll;  she  d. 
in  1882.  Had  four  children  of  whom  two  d.  young;  the  living  are 
lua  and  Roy. 

7th.  Charles,  b.  16  Nov.,  1844;  mar.  in  1872,  Emily  Alford; 
home,  in  Michigan  city,  Mich.  Issue:  Fred;  Helen;  Robert;  Marv, 
who  d.  young. 

8th.  Emily,  b.  8  Aug.,  1849,  in  Great  Falls,  X.  H.;  mar.  (1st) 
26  June,  1871,  Edwin  Wade,  lieut.  in  Revenue  cutter  service,  b.  13 
May,  j  N4.S.  d.  3  Sept.,  1884,  son  of  Peleg  and  wife,  Mary  Shaers,  of 
Ellicott,  N.  Y.;  mar.  (2nd)  17  Dec,  1892,  Frank  Boynton,  banker 
and  broker,  b.  23  Aug.,  1845,  son  of  Benjamin  and  wife,  Louisa 
biske,  of  Lowell,  Mass.;  home,  in  Cambridge.  Mrs.  Boynton  sup- 
plied data  relative  to  descendants  of  her  mother  and  her  aunt,  Mrs. 
Mason;  also  otherwise  materially  aided  in  the  work  of  compiling  this 
history.      Issue: 

I.      Winifred  Wade,  b.  12  Jan.,   1876;   mar.    2  Jan.,  1S99,  Wil- 
liam H.  Chapman;   home,  in  New  York  city. 

L5.  Patience  Lord,  b.  13  Jan..  1814,  in  Ossipee,  N.  H.;  mar.  19 
July,  1 S34,  James  I).  Robey,  a  teacher  of  penmanship,  b.  13  June, 
[815,  d.  28  Aug..  1899,  son  of  Jonathan  and  wife,  Abigail  Prescott. 
of  Chichester.  X.  H.;  resided  in  Chichester  and  Concord,  N.  H.,  and 
Buda,  111.;   she  d.  26  Dec,  1898.     Issue: 

1st.  John  F.,  b.  7  Feb.,  1836;  mar.  18  Jan.,  1870,  Dora  M. 
Mason;   lives  in  Princeton,  111.      Issue: 

I.  Wessalyn  A.,  b.  5  Nov.,  1870;  mar.  10  June,  1895,  Edward 
J.  Hill;  home,  in  Chicago. 

II.  Winifred  M.,  b.  30  Aug.,  1876;   mar.  11  May,  1894,  Rob- 
ert L.  Mercer;   home,  in  Princeton,  111. 

III.  James  H.,  b.  17  June,  1880. 

2nd.     Abbie  J.,  b.   23  Feb.,    1846;  mar.   8  Oct.,    1873,  Jacob  F. 
Schcettler;   home,  in  Buda.      Issue: 
I.     Gracie,  b.  2  Dec,  1879. 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  319 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From  Family  Xo.  i.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  April  2,  1764,  in  Berwick;  was  baptized 
May  6,  1764.  As  early  as  1791,  he  was  living  in  Kennebec  county; 
the  census  of  that  year  shows  him  a  resident  of  Vassalboro,  with  wife 
and  one  daughter  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years;  was  living  in  the 
town  as  late  as  18 10;  later  lived  in  Winslow,  where  he  died  October 
13.  1 831;  death  was  due  to  injuries  received  by  falling  in  a  mill;  was 
a  mill-wright.  Married  March  22,  1789,  Bethula  Beal,  born  February 
2,  1762,  died  February  1,   [848,  daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Sarah 

,  of  Portland;  Samuel  Beal  died  early  in  life;  his  widow  married 

a  Furber.     Issue: 

1.  Sarah,  b.  11  May,  1790;  d.  31  May,  1876;  mar.  (1st)  Samuel 
P.  Carr;    (2nd)  Wiggin;    (3d)  .     Issue: 

1st.     Livonia  Carr,  mar.  Nelson  Narcross  of  Benton,  Me. 

2nd.      Hiram,  mar.  Phila  Getchel,  of  Benton,  Me. 
-.     James,  Jr.,  b.  1  Jan.,  1792.     See  family  12. 

3.  Samuel,  b.  23  Jan.,  1794;  d.  5  Jan.,  1821. 

4.  Lydia,  b.  24  Jan.,  1796;  d.  13  Sept.,  1867;  mar.  2  Feb.,  1823, 
William  Lawrence,  blacksmith,  b.  S  Apr.,  1782,  d.  7  Feb.,  1848; 
resided  in  Springfield  and  Calais,  Me.,  and  Oshkosh,  Wis.     Issue: 

1st.  Samuel  Brackett,  b.  31  Jan.,  1824;  mar.  Nancy  Craig. 
Children  are  Gustavia;   Carrie:   Samuel;   Reuben;  Matt;  and  D wight. 

2nd.  Betsey  M.,  b.  27  June,  1826;  d.  20  Oct.,  1903;  mar.  Conrad 
Clinch.     Children  are  Lida  and . 

3d.     George  W.,  b.  4  Sept.,  1828;   d.  24  Sept.,  1828. 

4th.     Josephine,  b.  12  Feb.,  1830:   d.  in  1851. 

5th.     Angelina,  b.  twin  with  Josephine,  d.  in  1840. 

6th.  Gustavus.  b.  \2  Apr.,  1832;  mar.  Sarah  Coy;  resides  in 
Watertown,  X.  D.     Children  are  William;   Dollie;   Bertha;   Fred. 

7th.  Thaddeus,  b.  7  Mar.,  1835;  mar.  Sophia  Lull;  resides  in 
Troy,  Montana.      Children  are  Inez;   Arland;    Walter. 

8th.  Lucinda,  b.  27  June,  1838,  in  Princeton,  Me.,  mar.  24  Jan., 
1 861,  Daniel  W.  Barnes,  b.  13  July,  1836,  son  of  Ethelbert  Barnes  and 
wife,  Zilpha  Tripp,  of  Steuben,  N.  Y.,  contractor  and  builder;  resided 
in  Oshkosh;  home,  in  Neenah,  Wis.     Issue: 

I.  Ethelbert,  b.   31   May.    1863;  mar.    28   Feb.,    1887,    Mame 
Hall;  home,  in  Spokane,  Wash. 

II.  Josephine,  b.  23  Sept.,  1866;  mar.  23  June,  1891,  Charles 
P.  I/indsley;  home,  in  Spokane. 

III.  Ethel,  b.  21  June,  1882;  home,  in  Neenah. 

5.  Sophia,  b.  22  Feb.,  1798;  mar.  Ruel  Hanks,  of  Vassalboro, 
Me.;   had  son  Ruel. 

6.  George  W.,  b.  5  Jan.,  1800;  d.  25  Mar.,  1821. 

7.  Maria,  b.  22  July,  1802;  d.  30  Jan.,  1821. 

8.  Mary  Beal.  b.  31  Mar.,  1805,  in  Vassalboro,  Me.;  d.  12  Jan., 
1885;  mar.  21  Jan.,  1823,  Luther  Rice  Lamb,  gunsmith,  b.  28  June, 
1795,  d.  in  July,  1884,  son  of  Jonas  and  wife,  Mehitable  Pierce,  of 
Spencer,  Mass.;  removed  from  Winslow,  Me.,  to  Hartford,  Conn., 
about  1826;  thence  to  Winslow  about  1828;  to  China  about  1851;  to 
Winslow  1853:   in  1875  to  Boston.     Issue: 


320  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Lst.     George  Brackett,  b.  23  Nov..  [823;  d.  17  Feb.,  1824. 

2nd.  Francis  Marion,  b.  20  July,  1825;  mar.  Emma  Jane  Brem- 
ner,  of  Win-low.  Me.     Issue: 

I.     Ruel  Francis,  oi  Clinton,  Me. 

3d.     Mary  Beal,  b.  [o  Apr..  [827;  d.  6  Apr.,  1833. 

4th.  Clunk-  Harvey,  b.  4  Sept..  [829;  mar.  Lizzie  Fruber;  d. 
9  Dec,  [883. 

5th.     Sophia  Brackett,  b.  [7  Aug.,  [831;   mar.  Emery  F.  Wright, 
of  Charlestown,  Mass.:  d.  15  Dec.  1888.     Issue: 
I.      Mary  I,.,  mar.  Warren. 

6th.  Betsey  Brackett,  b.  20  Apr.,  [834;  d.  in  April,  1906;  mar. 
John  W.  Adams,  of  Blairstown,  X.  J.:   resided  in  Blairstown. 

7th.  Mary  Brackett,  b.  1  Jan.,  [837;  mar.  Chas.  G.  Noyes,  of 
Memphis,  Tenn.;  d.  7  Sept.,  1895. 

8th.  Maria  Brackett.  b.  12  July,  1839;  mar.  James  Tryon,  of 
Boston;  d.  n  Now,  i^s' ». 

(.tth.  Luther  Rice,  b.  29  Mar..  1842:  mar.  .Sarah  Calies,  of 
Boston;  d.  9  Aug.,  [880. 

10th.  Caroline  Shaw.  b.  5  Jan..  [844;  a  school  teacher  for  thirty 
years;  taught  for  that  period   in   one  ward   in   Oshkosh,   Wis.;    now 

6)  residing  in  Westport,  N.  Y.;  supplied  data  relative  to  this 
family. 

11th.  Augusta  Ellen,  b.  21  Aug.,  1847;  mar.  Channing  W. 
Littlefield,  of  Boston.     Issue: 

I.     Grace,  mar.  Fentriss. 

12th.     Cyrus  Allen,  b.  twin  with  Augusta;  d.  10  Mar.,  1849. 

13th.  James  Brackett,  b.  6  Aug.,  1849;  mar.  Elvisa  Bragdon, 
oi  Saco,  Me.;  d.  6  Nov.,  1880. 

FAMILY    NO.   4. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James.  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  August  16,  1769;  was  baptized  May  13, 
177".  in  Berwick,  Me.,  removed  to  Vassalboro,  Me.,  in  1794:  about 
the  year  [810,  he  purchased  a  farm  bordering  on  China  village,  and 
on  it  passed  the  remainder  of  his  days.  Was  a  firm  and  sincere 
Christian,  a  devoted  member  of  the  Baptist  church  and  prominent  in 
its  social  circles;  was  one  of  the  most  forehanded  and  thrifty  farmers 
oi  the  town,  and  accumulated  a  moderately  large  estate  for  his  day 
and  locality.  For  over  forty-five  years  he  was  a  resident  of  China 
and  enjoyed  the  confidence  and  esteem  of  quite  all  its  people. 

The  writer's  father  related  of  him  that  he  ordered  some  Indians 
mil  ol  his  meadow,  who  were  picking  strawberries  and  tramping  down 
the  grass.  An  old  squaw  said  to  him  with  a  deal  of  energy,  "God 
gave  this  land  to  the  Indians  first."  With  bowed  head  he  retraced 
his  steps  to  his  house,  well  contented  to  let  the  original  inhabitants 
enjoy  the  first  fruits  of  the  land.  He  died  in  the  eighty-sixth  year  of 
his  age  on  May  5,  [855.  He  married  September  30,  1797,  Lydia 
Allen,  born  June  5,  1774,  died  August  13,  1853,  daughter  of  Barsham, 
born  November  2,  [730,  in  York,  Me.,  died  October  28,  18 — ,  mar- 
ried in  1755,  Mary  Smith,  of  Kittery,  born  March  30,  1736,  died 
January  30,   [810,  sister  of  Ruth   Smith  (see  ancestry  family   2).  was 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  321 

son  of  Barsham  Allen,  Sr.;  he  was  born  February  4,  1702,  married 
November  4,  1726,  Martha  Pray,  was  son  of  James;  he  married  Dor- 
othy Barsham,  was  son  of  Walter  Allen,  of  Berwick;  he  was  seventy- 
seven  years  of  age  when  on  April  20,  1720,  he  deposed  that  he  came 
to  America  the  year  King  Charles  II  was  restored  to  the  throne  of 
England,  i.  e.  1660;  married  Mary  Holmes;  both  owned  the  covenant 
and  were  baptized  April  22,  1725.  Martha  Pray  was  daughter  of 
Joseph;  he  was  born  about  1671,  married  Mary  Grant,  moved  from 
York  to  Berwick  in  1703,  died  about  1747-8,  was  son  of  John;  he 
married  May  7,  1657,  Joanna  Dowman,  who  died  about  1676,  married 
second  time,  settled  in  York,  was  son  of  Quinton;  he  was  born  in 
1595,  came  to  Lynn,  Mass.,  about  1640,  as  an  iron-worker,  removed 
to  Braintree  and  died  there  June  17,  1667,  wife's  name  was  Joan;  the 
ancient  name  of  this  family  was  Pre,  a  word  signifying  a  meadow. 

Mary  Grant  was  daughter  of  Peter;  he  bought  land  in  Kittery  of 
James  Emery,  October  21,  1659,  married  about  1664,  Joan  nee  Eng- 
lish, widow  of  James  Grant,  known  as  James,  the  Scotchman;  Peter 
died  before  1709.  Joan  English  was  daughter  of  James;  he  resided  in 
Boston,  died  1703,  was  a  mariner,  commanded  a  vessel  which  coasted 
between  Boston  and  towns  on  Casco  bay;  his  daughters  were  legatees 
of  Sylvanus  Davis  who  was  so  prominent  in  the  early  history  of 
Portland. 

Dorothy  Barsham  was  born  February  2^,,  1673,  daughter  of  John; 
he  was  of  Portsmouth:  wife's  name  was  Mehitable;  John  was  son  of 
William  and  wile,  Annabelle,  of  Watertown,  Mass.  Mary  Hotmes 
was  daughter  of  Thomas  and  wife,  Joanna  Freathy,  daughter  of 
William  of  York.      Issue: 

1.  Allen,  b.  15  Aug.,  1798.     See  family  13. 

2.  Mary,  b.  29  Mar.,  1800,  in  Yassalboro,  Me.;  mar.  Ebenezer 
Shaw.  b.   in   1793.  d.   20   Nov.,   1862,  age  69  years,  son  of  Jacob  and 

wife,  Butterfield;   was  a   farmer,  lived   in   China,  Me.;   was  high 

sheriff  of  Kennebec  co.:  she  died  in  China,  9  Nov.,   [838.      Issue: 

1st.  Caroline,  b.  8  Jan.,  [820,  in  China:  mar.  Allen  Lewis  who 
was  drowned  at  sea  off  Galveston;  lived  in  Texas;  she  d.  9  Apr., 
1861,  in  Texas.     Issue: 

I.  Hattie  B.,  who  mar.  McMann. 

II.  Mary  Emily,  who  mar.  William  Xickerson. 

2nd.  Emily  H.,  1>  in  Apr.,  1821,  in  China;  mar.  Alfred  Moore 
who  is  dec;  she  d.  in  California,  in  1877. 

3d.     John  Brackett,  b.  in  1N22;  d.  16  Aug.,  1826. 

4th.  Ebenezer  Nelson,  b.  in  1827,  in  China;  mar.  Sarah  Saw- 
telle;  he  d.  in  Sept.,  1868,  in  Damariscotta,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Sarah,   mar. 

II.  Mary,   never  mar.;   is  dec. 

III.  Alfred,   mar. 

3.  Lydia,  b.  15  Mar.,  1802.  in  Yassalboro;  mar.  21  Dec,  1824, 
Alfred  Marshall,  b.  in  1791,  d.  2  Oct.,  1868,  in  China;  he  held  the 
rank  of  general  in  the  state  militia;  was  representative  in  National 
congress,  from  1832-6;  home,  in  China  village;  was  a  merchant. 
She  d.  2  May,  1874.     Issue: 

1st.  Isabelle  Isaphene,  b.  9  Mar.,  1826,  in  China;  mar.  18  June, 
1850,  William  Matthews;  she  d.  9  Oct.,  1863.     Issue: 

I.     Alfred  Marshall,  b.  22  July,  1858;  d.  3  Dec,  1858. 


322  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2nd.  Jacob  Smith,  b.  26  May,  1828,  in  China:  never  mar.;  d. 
21  Aug.,  1S60. 

3d.     John  Bracket!,  b.  3  Dec.,  1 831;  d.  11  Aug.,  1841. 
1.     Sally,  b.  29  May,  1804;  d.  3  Mar,  1814. 
5.     James  Hervey,  b.  30  June,  1807.     See  family  14. 
(I.      Betsey,    1>.   3   Mar.,     1811,    in  China;    mar.    Franklin  Kimball, 
1).  14  Sept.,  1809.  el.  3  Oct.,  1884;   lived  many  years  in  China,  later  in 
New  Jersey  where  she  d.   4  July,  1868.     After  his  wife's  death,  Mr. 
Kimball  went   to   southwest   part   of    Virginia  to  live  where  he  had 
interests  in  real  estate:  was  living  there  at  time  of  his  death.     Issue: 

1st.      Harriet  Brackett,  b.  in  Apr.,  1846;   d.  29  Aug.,  1853. 

2nd.     Emily  Shaw,  b.  in  Apr..  1848;  d.  11  Apr.,  1853. 

3d.      Franklin,  b.  31  July,  1852;  d.  21  Sept.,  1853. 
7.      Ruby,  b.  30  Oct.,  1813;   d.  12  Apr.,  1816. 

s.  Harriet,  b.  6  Sept.,  1816,  in  China;  mar.  Esty  Nicholas  Doe, 
1).  23  Oct..  1815,  d.  in  Apr.,  1857,  son  of  Nicholas  of  Parsonsfield  and 
wile.  Nancy  Esty,  of  Waterville,  Me.;  she  always  resided  in  China 
village  where  she  d.  10  Sept.,  1894.     Issue: 

1st.  Eben  Shaw,  b.  in  1838;  went  to  Texas  before  the  civil  war, 
where  he  has  since  continued  to  reside  in  or  near  Galveston;  served 
in  a  Texas  regiment  in  the  Confederate  army. 

2nd.     Mary  Shaw,  b.  5  Mar.,  1840;  d.  16  Dec,  1861. 

3d.     Lydia  Allen,  b.  in  Apr.,  1845;  d.  27  Sept.,  1849. 

1th.     Theron  Esty,  b.  in  Mar.,  1848;  d.  16  Sept.,  1849. 

5th.     Annie  Allen,  b.  22  Mar.,  1849;  d.  29  Oct.,  1849. 

6th.     Theron  Esty.  b.  17  Aug.,    1850;   mar.  in  May,    1898,  Aug- 
usta A.  Jackson;   is  dec.      Issue: 
I.     Harold. 

7th.     Annie  Allen,  b:  1  June,  1855;  is  single. 

Theron  and  Annie  Doe,  the  youngest  of  the  children  of  Harriet 
Brackett  Doe,  of  all  the  descendants  of  John  Brackett,  are  the  only 
ones  who  now  reside  in  China  village.  It  is  but  just  to  them  to  say 
that  they  have  kept  well  preserved  the  graves  of  Deacon  James 
Brackett  and  wife,  and  of  their  grandparents.  When  the  remains  of 
deceased,  buried  in  a  cemetery  at  China  village,  were  removed  to 
another  cemetery,  it  was  through  their  care  that  choice  sites  were 
selected,  and  the  remains  of  said  ancestors  were  properly  re-interred. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From   Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  March  30,  1784,  in  Berwick;  was  raised 
in  Ossipee;  soon  after  or  about  the  time  of  his  marriage  removed  to 
the  town  of  Fairfax,  in  Kennebec  county;  was  living  there  from  1810 
to  1.S20;  in  1830,  lived  in  the  town  of  China;  later,  in  1834,  moved  to 
Weston,  in  Aroostook  county,  w7here  he  died  April  7,  1845;  was  a 
farmer;  married  Abigail  Fairfield,  born  March  30,  1787,  in  Vassal- 
Loro,  Me.,  died  December  9,  1855,  in  Weston.     Issue: 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK 


32^ 


1.  Luther,  b.  25  Apr.,  1806.     See  family  15. 

2.  Caroline,  b.  29  Feb.,  1808;  mar.  Levi  Pearl;  d.  27  May,  1886, 
in  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.  Issue:  Luther;  Maria;  George;  Isaac; 
Harrison;  Gustavus;  Thaddeus;  Frances;  all  b.  in  Calais;  and  Levi, 
b.  in  Troy,  N.  Y. 

3.  Henry  H.,  b.  4  Mar.,  1810.     See  family  16. 

4.  Emeline,  b.  4  May,  1812,  in  Fairfax;  mar.  Hosea  Littlefield; 
d.  22  Dec,  1892,  in  Auburn,  Me.  Issue:  Joseph;  Abigail;  James 
B.;  and  William  S. 

5.  Lucy  F.,  b.  4  July,  1814,  in  Fairfax;  mar.  Leonard  Smith,  b. 
25  Dec,  1809;  d.  2  Sept.,  1896,  in  Weston.     Issue: 

1st.     William,  b.  3  Aug.,  1837;  d.  24  Feb.,  1855. 

2nd.     Abigail,  b.  23  Dec,  1838;  is  dec. 

3d.     Warren,  b.  7  Jan.,  1840. 

4th.     Alfred,  b.  27  Jan.,  1842. 

5th.     John,  b.  14  Dec,  1843. 

6th.     Clarissa,  b.  12  Apr.,  1846. 

7th.     Priscilla,  b.  7  May,  [848. 

8th.     Edwin,  b.  14  Nov.,   1*50. 

9th.     Joseph,  b.  in  Sept.,  1853;  d.  18  June,  1854. 

6.  William,  b.  5  Oct.,  1816.     See  family  17. 

7.  James  C,  b.  28  Sept.,  1S18.     See  family  18. 

8.  Mary,  b.  28  June,  1821;  mar.  Guilford  D.  Smith;  d.  26  July, 
1895.     Issue: 


1st. 
2nd. 
3d. 
4th. 
5th. 
6th. 
9.     Laura,    b. 
George  Bramen. 


Emily,  b.  22  June,  1839. 
Albert  G.,  b.  14  Mar!,  1841. 
Hester,  b.  4  Jan.,  1843. 
James  B.,  b.  3  May,  1845. 
Wesley,  b.  7  Feb.,  1849. 
Herbert  G.,  b.  9  Feb.,  1854. 

26   Dec,    1824;    mar.    George  Small;    mar.    (2nd) 
Issue:     Wilmont  and  Mary  Small;  Mary  is  dec; 


Charles  and  Burt  Bramen. 

10.  Nancy,  b.  5  Feb.,  1826,  in  China,  Me.;  mar.  William  Chase; 
moved  to  New  York  in  1849,  to  Missouri  in  1859,  to  Kansas  in  1866. 
Issue: 

1st.     Cordilia,  b.  in  Unity,  Me. 

2nd.  Emma  L.,  b.  25  Oct.,  1844;  mar.  14  May,  1866,  Frank 
Lyman,  b.  31  Oct.,  1837,  d.  29  Dec,  1904;  home,  in  Topeka,  Kas. 
Issue: 


1867;  mar.  in  July,  1896,   Francis 


I.  Samuel  W.,  b.  in  Feb., 
Philips;  home,  in  Topeka.     Issue: 

a.  Muriel,  b.  in  Feb.,  1902. 

b.  Samuel  W.,  b.  in  Mar.,  1904. 

II.  Charles  W.,  b.  in  Nov.,  1868;  mar.  in  July,   1889,  Jennie 
Davignon;  home,  in  Topeka.     Issue: 

a.  Eugene,  b.  in  June,  1892. 

b.  Corinne,  b.  in  Mar.,  1894. 

III.  Harry  E.,  b.  in  Nov.,  1871;   mar.  in  1891,  Anna  Pritch- 
ard;   home,  in  Topeka.     Issue: 

a.  Wendell,  b.  in  July,  1894. 

b.  Alice  M.,  b.  in  1897. 


324  RRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

IV.  William  H.,    b.  in    April,    1874;  mar.    Olive    Markley; 
home,  in  Kansas  city.      Issue: 

a.     William  O.,  b.  in  Oct.,  1903. 

V.  Charlotte  G.,  b.  in  June,  1880. 

3d.     Charles.      1th.   William  II.     5th.   Ida.     6th.   Laura. 

11.  Elniira,  b.  27  Nov.,  1827;  mar.  William  Biather;  d.  31  Oct., 
1864,  in  Weston,  Me.     Issue: 

Lst.     James  G.,  b.  22  Jan.,  1846. 

2nd.     Alfred  V.,  b.  6  Feb.,  1850. 

3d.     Herbert,  b.  23  June,  1852;  d.  26  June,  1852. 

4th.      Hannah,  b.  20  Aug.,  1853;  d.  29  July,  1854. 

12.  Abigail,  b.  3  Nov.,  1831;  mar.  Josiah  Brewer,  b.  5  Oct., 
[823,  d.  in  [860;  mar.  (2nd)  Alonzo  Libby;  d.  22  Jan.,  1897,  in 
White-  Rock,  Me.      Issue: 

lst.      Frederick  M.,  b.  19  Apr.,  1851,  in  Weston,  Me. 
2nd.     Inez  A.,  b.  14  Oct.,  1853,  in  Lincoln,  Neb. 

13.  Margaret  E.,  b.  21  Oct.,  1836,  in  Weston,  Me.;  mar.  (1st) 
William  Brannan;  mar.  (2nd)  Weston  Brannan.  Issue:  Esther 
and  William,  by  first  husband;  Bickford,  Guy  and  Blanche,  by  the 
second . 

FAMILY    NO.   6. 

From  Family  No.  2.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  John. 
John  Brackett  was  born  February  9,  1786,  in  Berwick,  Me.; 
soon  after  his  birth  his  father  removed  to  Ossipee,  N.  H.  Like  his 
brothers,  he  returned  to  the  State  of  Maine  to  make  his  home;  how 
early  in  life  it  was  that  he  left  Ossipee,  has  not  been  learned.  The 
census  of  1830  shows  him  a  resident  of  Washington  county,  in  town 
of  Robbinston;   was  a  farmer.     Married  Nancy  Johnson.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  A.,   b.  25  Jan.,    1818;   mar.   26  Oct.,   1837,  Thomas  Mc- 

Near,   who  d.  10  Sept.,   1867;  mar.  (2nd)  in  1867, Dow;  living 

in  1 900,  in  Robbinston.      Issue: 

1st.  Ruth,  b.  5  Oct.,  1840;  mar.  Joshua  Damon.  Children, 
Charles;   Mary;   Maynard;   Harry. 

2nd.  Harriet,  b.  4  Nov.,  1842;  mar.  H.  A.  Brooks.  Children, 
Lottie  and  Joseph. 

3d.  Thomas,  b.  31  July,  1843;  mar.  Fanny  Lyons.  Child, 
Gertrude. 

2.  John,  b.  in  1823.      See  family  19. 
.'!.      Nancy,   mar.  Peter  Avery. 

4.  Harriet,  b.  9  Oct.,  1832;  mar.  Seth  T.  Lamb.  Children: 
lst.  George  A.,  who  mar.  Sarah  Anderson,  and  had  Albert  and 
Catherine.      2nd.    Nathaniel,  dec.     3d.   Annie  S. 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From  Family  No.   2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  Hiram. 

Hiram  Brackett  was  born  February  14,  1788,  in  Ossipee,  N.  H.; 
removed  to  China,  Me.,  thence,  in  the  thirties,  to  Aroostook  county; 
was  a  farmer;  died  in  Weston,  November  10,  1862;  married  January 
18,  1813,  Nancy  Burrell  of  China,  Me.     Issue: 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  325 

1.  Harriet,  b.  5  May,  1818;  d.  6  Dec,  1858;  mar.  Charles  Clark. 

2.  George  W.,  b.  24  Oct.,  1821.     See  family  20. 

3.  Nancy,  b.  3  Aug.,  1824;  d.  n  June,  1887;  mar.  Lewis  B. 
Smart.     Children,  George  L,.;   Hattie  N.,  who  mar.  Henry  Mood}'. 

4.  Alva  A.,  b.  5  Apr.,  1829;  d.  18  Dec,  1863;  mar.  Jerry  New- 
man.    Children,   Lydia  A.;  Thomas  W.;  and  William  A. 

5.  Hiram  C,  b.  6  May,  1832;  mar.  Susan  Wilkins. 

6.  Charles  H.,  b.  25  Aug.,  1836,  in  China;  d.  in  April,  1893; 
mar.  Harriet  Wilkins;  lived  in  Danforth,  Me.  Children:  1st.  Ida, 
who  mar.  Leroy  Bragg  of  Eaton,  Me.     2nd.  Georgie. 

7.  Luther,  b.  8  Dec,  1839.     See  family  21. 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  2.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  Joseph. 
Joseph  Brackett  was  born  March  4,  1792,  in  Ossipee,  N.  H. 
Like  his  older  brothers,  he  removed  to  China  (Albion),  Me.,  where 
lived  his  uncle,  John  Brackett,  and  his  grandfather,  Deacon  James 
Brackett.  There  are  people  living  in  China  (1906)  who  can  recall 
Joseph  Brackett;  about  1835,  removed  to  Aroostook  county;  lived  in 
Ashland,  where  he  died  February  26,  1841;  married  Lucy  Twist,  nee 
Lovejoy.     Issue: 

1.  Abigail,  b.  11  June,  1815,  in  China;  mar.  James  McCann;  d. 
17  July,  1843,  in  Ashland.      No  issue. 

2.  Hiram,  b.  11  Nov.,  1816.     See  family  22. 

3.  John  Y.,  b.  20  Mar.,  1818;  never  mar.;  d.  2  Nov.,  1841,  in 
Ashland. 

4.  Louisa,  b.  25  July,  1821;  mar.  Elbridge  Dunn;  d.  in  St.  Johns, 
N.  B.     Had  four  children. 

FAMILY   NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 

James,  Joseph,  Levi. 

Levi  Brackett  was  born  April  15,  1800,  in  Ossipee,  N.  H.;   lived 

in   New    Durham,   N.   H.,    where  he    died  March    24,    1872;    was  a 

farmer;  married  in   1830,   Susan  Edwards,   born  June  12,    1807,  died 

in  1900,  daughter  of  Joseph  and  wife,  ■ — — ,  of  Parsonsfield,  Me. 

Issue: 

1.  Charles  H.,  b.  9  Feb.,  1833.     See  family  23. 

2.  Joseph,  b.  in  1837;  mar.  Mary  Colson  Wilkinson;  home,  in 
New  Durham,  N.  H.     No  issue. 

3.  Hiram,  b.  11  Now,  1839.     See  family  24. 

4.  Thomas,  b.  in  1S43;  is  single;   home,  in  New  Durham, 
o.     Azariah,  b.  in  1843;  is  single;   home,  in  New  Durham. 

6.  John,  b.  in  1845. 

7.  Levi,  b.  in  1847;   is  dec 

8.  Mary  E.,  b.  16  Mar.,  1850;  mar.  28  Oct.,  1871,  Russell  Miller, 
b.  9  Nov.,  1845,  son  of  Richard  and  wife,  Paulina  Buzzell;  is  a 
farmer;  home,  in  New  Durham.     Issue: 

1st.     George  R.,  b.  16  Jan.,  1873;  d.  3  Feb.,  1880. 
2nd.     Walter  H.,   b.  29  Mar.,   1874;   mar.  5  Sept.,  1900,   Carrie 
E.  Morse;  home,  in  New  Durham. 
3d.     Harley  W.,  b.  1  Jan.,  1883. 


326  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family  No.  2.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  Azriah. 
Azriah  Brackett  was  born  April  21,  1804,  in  Ossipee,  N.  H.; 
overseer  in  cotton  mill;  resided  in  Great  Falls,  N.  H.,  Lowell  and 
North  Tewkesbury,  Mass.;  is  deceased;  married  September  28,  1833, 
in  Great  Falls,  Sophia  H.  Fogg,  born  February  3,  18 16,  in  Berwick, 

died  August  9,  1854,  daughter  of and  wife,  Margaret , 

of  Berwick.     Issue: 

1.  S.  Frances,  b.  27  June,  1835;  mar.  28  Sept.,  1861,  Charles  E. 
Jones;   lived  in  Lawrence,  Mass.;  d.  13  Oct.,  1902.     No  issue. 

2.  Albert,  b.  10  Sept.,  1837;  mar-  23  May,  1861,  Mary  W. 
Abbott,  b.  7  Aug.,  1840,  d.  13  Oct.,  1902,  dau.  of  William  and  wife, 
Hannah  S.  Canney,  of  Boston;  is  an  overseer  of  factory;  home,  in 
Lowell;  served  three  years  in  co.  G,  33d  Mass.  vol.  inf.  Genial 
and  jovial  is  his  disposition;  time  spent  in  his  company  is  hours 
wiled  away  in  pleasure;  had  dau.,  Mattie,  b.  7  Sept.,  1868,  d.  24 
Jan.,  1895. 

.'!.  William  H.,  b.  7  June,  1839;  d.  14  Dec,  1841. 

4.  Hiram  H.,  b.  10  Oct.,  1843;  d.  23  Jan.,  1849. 

5.  Susan  M.,  b.  4  July,  1845;  d.  7  Oct.,  1879. 

6.  Harriet  A.,  b.  11  Nov.,  1848;  d.  26  Apr.,  1879. 

7.  Eva  C,  b.  22  Mar.,  1852;  d.  22  Mar.,  1871. 


FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  Thomas. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  born  January  n,  1807,  in  Ossipee,  N.  H.; 
was  a  laborer  in  cotton  mill;  resided  in  Great  Falls  and  Somersworth, 
N.  H.,  in  which  latter  place  he  died  December  15,  1856;  married 
November  18,  1832,  Olive  Hartford,  born  November  11,  1808,  died 
June  5,  1888,  daughter  of  John  and  wife,  Betsey  Babb,  of  Strafford, 
N.  H.      Issue: 

1.  Frances  M.,  b.  8  Aug.,  1833;  d.  21  Feb.,  1850. 

2.  Mary  Ann,  b.  16  Apr.,  1835;  mar.  William  H.  Tasker;  d. 
18  Nov.,  1901;   lived  in  Somersworth,  N.  H. 

3.  Susan  H.,  b.  22  Aug.,  1837:  mar.  E.  P.  Pierce. 
I.     John  S.,  b.  2  Oct.,  1839.     See  family  25. 

5.     Henry  II.,  b.  16  July,  1843;  home,  in  Somersworth,  N.  H. 

(I.     Charles  A.,  b.  2  Mar.,  1846;  mar.  Susan  R. ;  d.  24  Sept., 

1890.     Issue: 

1st.  Olive  Gertrude,  b.  13  May,  1873,  in  Somersworth,  N.  H.; 
mar.  13  May,  [873,  Ernest  E.  Lj'man  of  Danielson,  Conn. 

7.  Lloyd  Sumner,  b.  18  Dec,  1849;  d.  25  Dec,  1890,  in  Texas; 
mar.  20  June,  1877,  Ida  Hanscom,  b.  7  Oct.,  1848,  dau.  of  Aaron 
and  wife,  Susan  Woodsum,  of  Lebanon,  Me.;  was  b.  in  Somers- 
worth, N.  H.;  resided  in  Boston;  Atlanta,  Ga.;  Charlotte,  N.  C, 
and  San  Antonio,  Texas.     Issue: 

1st.  Olive,  b.  13  Aug.,  1885,  in  San  Antonio,  Tex.,  where  she 
resides. 

8.  Laura  F.,  b.  4  Jan.,  1853;  d.  23  June,  1887;  never  mar. 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  327 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  No.  3.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  James,  James. 

Dr.  James  Braekett  was  born  January  1,  1792,  in  Vassalboro, 
Me.  Made  choice  of  the  profession  of  medicine,  for  the  practice  of 
which  he  qualified  himself  by  study  in  St.  Louis,  Mo.;  became  emi- 
nent in  his  work,  was  credited  with  advanced  views  in  his  science 
and  in  his  treatment  of  diseases.  Married  Ortance  McCracken,  nee 
Jarrot,  born  in  1797,  died  in  1885,  daughter  of  Nicholas  and  wife, 
Julia  Beauvais.  Her  parents  were  born  in  Paris,  and  early  in  the  last 
century  settled  in  Illinois,  at  Cahokia,  which  place,  at  the  time,  gave 
promise  of  being  a  large  city.  Here  Mr.  Jarrot  was  engaged  in 
trade  with  the  Indians,  and  other  enterprises;  built  a  large  brick 
house  with  walls  three  feet  thick,  designed  to  resist  attacks  by  the 
Indians,  and  proved  to  be  so  well  constructed  as  to  resist  the  attacks 
of  nature,  it  having  withstood  the  destruction  wrought  by  two  earth- 
quakes and  four  floods.  At  the  time  of  her  second  marriage,  Mrs. 
Braekett  was  the  mother  of  five  children,  viz.,  Rachel,  born  in  1819, 
married  Dr.  N.  J.  Stark  (two  children,  Charles  C,  born  in  1S44,  and 
Nicholas,  born  in  1852);  John,  born  in  1821;  Nicholas,  born  Febru- 
ary 23,  1822,  a  bachelor,  died  in  1S95;  Robert;  Julia,  born  in  1826, 
died  young.  She  was  a  woman  of  lovable  traits,  excellent  social 
qualities,  and  well  endowed  intellectually;  her  conversational  powers 
made  her  a  favorite  with  her  associates.  Over  her  family  she  exer- 
cised an  influence  that  endured  for  the  lives  of  each  member,  and 
her  remembrance  will  long  be  cherished  by  her  descendants.  Dr. 
Braekett  gained  the  confidence  and  esteem  of  all  who  knew  him,  and 
possessed  a  large  and  extended  acquaintance  in  St.  Louis  and 
Missouri.     He  died  in  1854.     Issue: 

1.  Maria  E.,  b.  8  Feb.,  1829;  mar.  27  Sept.,  1849,  Joseph  Sibley, 
lawyer,  b.  2  Jan.,  1818,  in  Westfield,  Mass.,  son  of  Aaron  and  wife, 
Tryphena  Agard;  was  admitted  to  practice  in  1848;  then  wrent  West 
and  settled  in  Nauvoo,  111.;  was  elected  to  the  legislature  in  1850, 
and  again  in  1852;  in  1855,  was  chosen  circuit  judge,  which  position 
he  held  for  24  years;  was  appointed  judge  of  the  appellate  court  for 
the  second  district  in  1877,  and  served  2  years;  continued  in  the 
practice  of  law  until  his  death,  18  June,  1897;  enjoyed  a  reputation 
as  a  reliable  counsel  and  successful  advocate,  which,  with  his  excel- 
lent personal  qualities,  attracted  to  him  a  large  circle  of  friends; 
home,  in  Quincy,  111.     Issue: 

1st.  Jarrot  Joseph,  b.  23  Mar.,  1851;  mar.  17  Mar.,  1872, 
Amanda  Carson.     Issue: 

I.  Julia  Fllen,    b.   3  Apr.,    1873;  mar.  5    Mar.,    1893,  John 
Hartley.     Issue: 

a.  Anna  Belle,  b.  17  Mar.,  1894. 

b.  Amanda,  b.  13  Jan.,  1896. 

c.  Robert  Lee,  b.  20  Jan.,  1898. 

d.  John  Edgar,  b.  2  Mar.,  1900. 

II.  Cora  Genevra,  b.  3  Dec,  1874;   d.  9  Aug.,  1875. 

III.  Nicholas  Jarrot,   b.  19  Aug.,    1876;  mar.  24  Dec,  1899, 
Elverta  Thomas. 

IV.  Joseph  Walter,  b.  20  Aug.,  1879. 


328  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

V.  John  Robert,  b.  31  May,  1881. 

VI.  Grover  Cleveland,  b.  4  Oct.,  1886. 
2nd.     Julia,  b.  10  Mar.,  1856. 

2.  Julia  C,  b.  3  Dec.,  1831;  mar.  25  Apr.,  1853,  John  O.  Butler, 
b.  10  Mar.,  1827,  son  of  Armstead  O.  and  wife,  Jane  Tournot,  of  St. 
Louis;  is  a  retired  lumber  merchant;  in  Apr.,  1903,  celebrated 
golden  wedding;   home,  in  St.  Louis.      Issue: 

1st.      Lillie  Hortense,  b.  2  Feb.,  1876;   d.  13  Apr.,  1894. 

3.  George  W.,  b.  20  May,  1833.     See  family  26. 
I.     James  L-,  1).  14  Aug.,  1835.     See  family  27. 

5.     Samuel  J.,  b.  9  Oct.,  1837.     See  family  28. 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  John,  Allen. 

Allen  Brackett  was  born  August  15,  1798,  in  Vassalboro;  resided 
from  1810  to  1859,  in  China,  Me.;  removed  to  Lincolnville,  where 
he  died  April  11,  1876.  In  China,  the  greater  portion  of  his  business 
life,  he  was  a  blacksmith;  a  few  years  before  1859,  he  moved  onto  a 
farm  in  China.  In  Lincolnville,  he  was  a  man  of  leisure,  and  on  his 
death  left  a  goodly  competence.     Tomb  in  Lincolnville,  Me. 

The  following  is  related  of  Allen  Brackett:  He  had  a  partiality 
for  Quakers.  One  of  the  sect  sold  him  a  horse;  when  asked  if  the 
horse  would  pull  up  hill,  he  answered,  "Friend  Brackett,  it  will 
please  thee  to  see  that  beast  pull  up  hill."  The  horse  was  balky, 
balked  with  his  new  owner  at  the  first  and  every  hill  that  he  came 
to.  Friend  Brackett,  on  meeting  the  Quaker  the  next  time  after 
their  trade,  accosted  him  with,  "You  told  me  that  horse  was  faithful 
and  true  and  he  has  balked  at  every  hill  I  have  come  to."  Un- 
abashed, the  foxy  fellow  answered,  "Friend  Brackett,  thou  art  hasty 
in  saying  that  I  told  thee  that  the  beast  was  faithful  and  true;  thee 
asked  if  the  beast  would  pull  up  hill,  and  I  told  thee  that  thou 
wouldst  be  pleased  to  see  that  beast  pull  up  hill.  Now,  friend 
Brackett,  verily,  wouldst  thou  not  be  pleased  to  see  that  horse  pull 
up  hill?" 

The  writer  has  heard  that  Allen  Brackett  laughed  heartily  at 
the  Quaker's  deception;  never  heard  that  he  changed  his  opinion  of 
the  sect,  or  that  he  haled  this  scaley  specimen  into  court  and  made 
him  disgorge  his  illgotten  gain. 

Married  December  23,  1829,  Octavia  Allen,  born  February  19, 
1809,  in  Vassalboro,  died  October  12,  1865,  in  Lincolnville,  daughter 
of  Charles  Allen  (brother  of  Lydia,  who  married  John  Brackett)  and 
wife,  Sally  Mitchell.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  A.,  b.  13  Dec,  1830.     See  family  29. 

2.  Horace  W.,  b.  26  Oct.,  1833.     See  family  30. 

.'!.  John  Allen,  b.  23  Feb.,  1836,  in  China,  Me.;  prepared  himself 
for  the  practice  of  medicine;  a  successful  physician  and  surgeon  in 
Giles  co.,  Virginia,  where  he  resided  and  practiced  for  many 
years;   never  mar.;   d.  20  Apr.,  1898. 


DEACON  JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  329 

FAMILY     NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  John,  James  H. 

James  Hervey  Brackett  was  born  June  30,  1807,  in  Vassalboro, 
Me.;  when  he  was  three  years  old  his  father  removed  to  China,  and 
in  that  town  he  lived  for  fifty-four  years;  was  familiarly  known  by 
quite  every  person  in  the  town  and  in  its  vicinity.  Removed  in 
1864,  to  Sparta,  Wis.,  near  to  which  city  he  resided  until  his  death, 
April  17,  1891.  In  Maine,  he  was  a  farmer;  in  Wisconsin,  an  inn- 
keeper and  retail  grocer.  By  Maine  laws  he  settled  all  legal  ques- 
tions, while  living  in  Wisconsin,  to  his  satisfaction,  for,  in  Maine  he 
•ever  continued  to  dwell  in  mind.  Until  he  was  seventeen  years  old 
his  grandfather  was  living,  who  died  in  the  ninety-ninth  year  of  his 
age.  The  grandsire's  stories  of  the  Indian  wars  he  well  remembered; 
quite  all  of  them  the  writer  has  recognized  as  related  in  local  his- 
tories. Was  of  strong  convictions  and  prejudices;  he  trusted  as  a 
friend  and  hated  as  a  foe,  though  he  was  not  revengeful;  principles, 
not  policies,  were  his  governing  motives,  and  for  his  principles  he 
was  ever  willing  to  make  sacrifices,  ever  steadfast  was  his  adherence 
to  them;  to  him  they  were  unchanging;  hence,  in  his  old  age,  he 
had  the  religion  and  politics  of  his  youth.  Genial  and  jovial,  he 
was  ever  read}-  for  a  laugh,  to  hear  a  good  storjr  and  to  relate  one. 
For  him  life  had  many  pleasures;  what  he  possessed  he  could  enjoy 
to  the  fullest,  for  envy  had  not  a  place  in  his  heart. 

Married  February  1,  1850,  Rose  Deborah  Brown,  born  Septem- 
ber 13,  1830,  is  living  at  Cataract,  Wis.,  daughter  of  Seth  Brown; 
he  was  born  about  1789,  lived  in  Brooks,  Me.,  removed  to  China, 
Me.,  where  he  died  August  26,  1846,  married  Hannah  Whitney, 
was  son  of  John  Brown;  he  was  a  soldier  in  the  Continental  army, 
served  in  Captain  Hosley's  company,  Colonel  Reed's  regiment;  in 
1776,  enlisted  in  Colonel  Prescott's  regiment  and  served  one  year; 
participated  in  the  battles  that  culminated  in  the  surrender  of  General 
Burgoyne;  died  at  Stoddard,  N.  H,,  July  14,  1804;  married  in  Town- 
send,  Mass.,  September  16,  1777,  Sarah  Gibson,  born  in  1757,  died 
in  [84-;  drew  pension  on  account  of  husband's  service;  lived  in  Stod- 
dard; married  (2nd)  October  15,  1824,  John  Green,  who  died  January 
31,  1 83 1.  Hannah  Whitney  was  born  August  21,  1794,  in  Gorham, 
died  August  10,  1857,  in  China,  was  daughter  of  Asa;  he  was  born  in 
December,  1754,  died  December  17,  1805,  in  Gorham,  married  July 
14,  1785,  in  Gorham,  Mrs.  Phebe  Davis,  nee  Hopkins,  was  son  of 
Elder  Nathan  Whitney;  he  was  born  December  12,  1709,  in  York, 
Me.,  married  Molly  Day,  removed  to  Gorham  and  was  one  of  the  first 
settlers  there,  died  in  1804,  was  son  of  Nathaniel  Whitney;  he  was 
born  in  York,  Me.,  April  14,  1680,  married  Sarah  Ford,  and  subse- 
quently removed  to  Gorham,  died  there,  was  son  of  Benjamin  Whit- 
ney; he  was  born  June  6,  1643,  in  Watertown,  Mass.,  married,  prob- 
ably in  York,  Jane ,  died  in   1723,   in  York,   was  son  of  John 

Whitney;  he  was  born  in  1589  in  England,  dwelt  in  parish  Isleworth- 
on-the-Thames,    settled    in   Watertown    in   June,    1635,    married   in 

England,  Elinor ,  born  in   1599,   died  May   11,   1659,  was  son  of 

Thomas  Whitney,  gentleman,  of  Westminster;  he  married  May  12, 
1583,  Mary,  daughter  of  John  Bray;  died  in  April,  1637. 


330  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Phebe  Hopkins,  who  married  Asa  Whitney,  was  born  in  1759, 
in  Truro,  Mass.,  married  (1st)  November  21,  1780,  Elijah  Davis  of 
Gorham,  a  Continental  soldier,  who  died  Octobers,  1783;  she  drew 
pension  on  account  of  his  service,  died  April  17,  1853,  in  Bridgton, 
Me.,  was  daughter  of  Constant  Hopkins;  he  was  born  in  Truro, 
where  he  lived  and  died,  married  December  1,  1743,  Phebe  Paine, 
was  son  of  Caleb  Hopkins;  he  lived  in  Truro,  married  Catherine 
Whelden,  he  was  son  of  Giles  Hopkins;  he  lived  in  Plymouth  and 
Truro,  was  son  of  Stephen  Hopkins;  he  was  the  immigrant,  came  on 
the  Mayflower,  survived  his  wife,  whose  name  is  not  known,  died  in 
Plymouth,  in  1644. 

Phebe  Paine,  who  married  Caleb  Hopkins,  was  born  December 
2,  1724,  in  Truro,  was  daughter  of  Jonathan  Paine;  he  was  born 
February  1,  1686,  married  June  29,  1719,  Mary  Purrington  of  Truro, 
born  in  1682,  died  May  17,  1760,  his  will  was  proved  June  23,  1752, 
was  son  of  Thomas  Paine;  he  was  born  in  1656-7,  settled  in  Truro, 
married  August  5,  1678,  Hannah  Shaw,  died  June  23,  1721,  was  son 
of  Thomas  Paine;  he  came,  when  ten  years  of  age,  to  America  with 
his  father,  Thomas  Paine,  settled  on  Cape  Cod  —  Eastham,  married 
Mary  Snow,  died  August  16,  1706. 

Hannah  Shaw,  who  married  Thomas  Paine,  was  born  in  1661, 
died  Jul)'  24,  1 7 13,  was  daughter  of  Jonathan  Shaw.  Mary  Snow, 
who  married  Thomas  Paine,  was  daughter  of  Nicholas  Snow  and 
wife,  Constance  Hopkins;  Constance  was  daughter  of  Stephen,  the 
immigrant.  Sarah  Ford,  who  married  Nathaniel  Whitney,  was 
daughter  of  John  Ford;  he  married  Joan  Andrews  of  Kittery,  Me.; 
was  son  of  Stephen  Ford,  the  immigrant,  and  wife,  Joan.  Joan 
Andrews  was  probably  daughter  of  John  Andrews  and  wife,  Joan. 
Issue: 

1.  Myron,  b.  1  Dec,  1850.     See  family  31. 

2.  Mary  Shaw,  b.  13  Dec,  i85i;.d.  26  Nov.,  1867. 

3.  Herbert  I.,  b.  18  Dec,  1859.     See  family  32. 

NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  James,  Luther. 
Luther  Brackett  was  born  April  25,  1806,  in  Kennebec  county, 
Me.;  was  sheriff  of  Washington  county  for  the  period  John  Fairfield 
was  governor  of  the  state;  was  consul  at  Pictou,  N.  S.,  during  the 
administration  of  President  Fillmore;  in  1849,  lived  in  Portland;  was 
then  a  merchant;  the  following  year  removed  to  Pictou,  where  he 
resided  until  1854,  when  he  went  to  Calais,  Me.,  where  he  died  July 
14,  1862.  He  collected  considerable  data  relative  to  the  descendants 
of  his  great-grandfather,  mostly  relative  to  the  descendants  of  his 
grandfather,  with  the  view  of  publishing;  many  of  the  dates  con- 
tained in  this  work  were  secured  from  his  collections  and  have  been 
found  reliable.  He  visited  relatives  in  New  Hampshire  for  the  pur- 
pose of  gleaning  information;  the  writer  has  received  letters  from 
parties  who  well  remembered  his  visit  and  its  object.     Married  Abi- 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  331 

gail  Todd  of  Calais,  Me.,  born  December  29,  181 2,   in  Eastport,  and 
died  April  24,  1891,  in  Farmington,  Minn.     Issue: 

1.  George  M.  C,  b.  21  Feb.,  1833;  mar.  Adelaide  Veasey;  d. — 
Apr.,  1878,  in  Farmington,  Minn. 

2.  Edward,  b.  22  Dec.,  1836,  in  Calais,  Me.;  never  mar.;  resides 
in  Farmington,  Minn. 

3.  Frederick,  b.  20  Dec,  1840.     See  family  33. 

4.  Winslow,  b.  14  July,  1843;  mar.  Emily  Hoyt;  home,  in  Minne- 
apolis; served  in  band,  6th  Me.  vol.  inf.,  from  15  July,  1861,  to  9 
Aug.,  1862.     No  further  record. 

0.  Mary,  b.  11  Sept.,  1847;  mar.  Whittier. 

6.     Anna  C.  S.,  b.  15  Aug.,  1851,  in  Pictou,  N.  S. 

FAMILY    NO.    16. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  James,  Henry  H. 

Henry  Hartwell  Brackett  was  born  at  Alvaney,  Kennebec 
county,  Me.,  March  4,  1810;  was  a  farmer,  then  a  butcher.  Prior 
to  marriage  he  lived  in  Houlton,  Me.;  subsequently  resided  in  Calais 
and  Orono,  Me.;  shortly  before  his  death  removed  to  Minneapolis, 
where  he  died  July  25,  1858.  Married  Mary  Scott  Prescott,  born 
September  28,  1814,  in  St.  Stephens,  N.  B.,  died  April  4,  1888,  in 
Minneapolis.     Issue: 

1.  Henry  Hartwell,  b.  21  Apr.,  1835.     See  family  34. 

2.  George  Augustus,  b.  16  Sept.,  1836.     See  family  35. 

3.  Elizabeth  Ann,  b.  24  Mar.,  1838,  in  Weston,  Me.;  never  mar.; 
d.  9  June,  1900,  in  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

4.  Julia  Caroline,  b.  13  Apr.,  1840;  mar.  26  Apr.,  1859,  Francis 
Hill,  b.  11  Sept.,  1832,  d.  16  Oct.,  1895,  a  miller;  home,  in  Minne- 
apolis.    Issue: 

1st.  Julia  Frances,  b.  26  Mar.,  i860;  mar.  26  Dec,  1878,  Jacob 
Lorenzo  Ludwig;  home,  in  Minneapolis,  Minn.     Issue: 

I.  Lillian  Frances,   mar.  8  June,  1899,  Leon  V.  Helk.     Issue: 
a.     John  Ralph,  b.  9  Dec,    1900.     It  will  be  observed  that 

this  child  is  of  the  twelfth  generation  from  Anthony  Brackett,  and 
of  the  thirteenth  from  George  Cleeve. 

II.  Frank  Hill,  b.  30  Oct.,  1880;   mar.  Charlotte  G.  Griggs. 

III.  Cora  Belle,  b.  1  Sept.,  1883. 

IV.  John  I.,  b.  30  Dec,  1885. 

2nd.  Cora  Agnes,  b.  22  Oct.,  1862;  mar.  18  Dec,  1885,  Martin 
Luther  Ludwig;   home,  in  Minneapolis.     Issue: 

I.  Harrison  Hill,  b.  9  May,  1887. 

II.  Cora  Agnes,  b.  27  June,  1890;  d.  same  day. 

III.  Ezra  Lloyd,  b.  27  Nov.,  1894. 

3d.  Mary  Louisa,  b.  23  Dec,  1866;  mar.  3  Jan.,  1894,  William 
Lincoln  Ludwig;  home,  in  Minneapolis.     Issue: 

I.  Rolla  William,  b.  2  May,  1898. 

II.  Bernard  Adrien,  b.  3  Oct.,  1900. 

III.  Margarette  Julia,  b.  5  Nov.,  1904. 

IV.  Calvin  L-,  b.  16  Feb.,  1897;  d.  9  Mar.,  1897. 
4th.     Clara  Belle,  b.  12  Nov.,  1869. 


332  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

5th.  Lucy  Agnes,  b.  2  July,  1873;  mar.  28  Sept.,  1897,  Edward 
Holmes  Houghton;   home,  in  Minneapolis.     Issue: 

I.  James  Donald,  b.  19  Feb.,  1899. 

II.  Ruth  Agnes,  b.  15  July,  1900. 

III.  George  Hill,  b.  18  Oct.,  1902. 

IV.  Edwin  Dale,  b.  28  Dec,  1904. 

5.     Mary  Emma,  b.  5  Jan.,  1842;  d.  24  Sept.,  1842,  in  Calais,  Me. 

t>.  Laura  Ayers,  b.  16  July,  1843;  mar.  5  Dec,  1861,  Charles  R. 
Putnam,  carpenter,  b.  16  Feb.,  1837;  home,  in  Minneapolis.  Issue: 
1st.  Laura  Ella,  b.  25  Dec,  1862;  mar.  5  Aug.,  1883,  William 
H.  Felton;  home,  in  Wrightstown.     Issue: 

I.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  17  Apr.,  1884. 

II.  Nettie    Phebe,  b.    22  Apr.,    1887;  d.  30  June,    1889,  in 
Oakland,  Cal. 

III.  Myrtle,  b.  20  Aug.,  1889,  in  Minneapolis. 

IV.  Baby  boy,  b.  7  Apr.,  1892;  d.  7  Apr.,  1892. 

V.  Florence  Edith,  b.  1  Mar.,  1900. 

2nd.  Wilton  Henry,  b.  9  May,  1865;  d.  1  July,  1865,  in  Minne- 
apolis. 

3d.     Mary  Emma,  b.  20  Jan.,  1871;  d.  27  June,  1874. 

4th.  Ida  Annette,  b.  29  Apr.,  1872;  mar.  5  June,  1900,  Judson 
J.  Fowler;  home,  in  Minneapolis.     Issue: 

I.  Russell  Putnam,  b.  17  June,  1901,  in  Tacoma,  Wash. 

II.  Winfield,  b.  27  Sept.,  1902,  in  Tacoma;  d.  30  Dec,  1902. 

III.  Marion  Ada,  b.  19  Oct.,  1903. 
5th.     Charles  Edgar,  b.  22  Feb.,  1881. 

7.  Charles  Edgar,  b.  10  July,  1845;  d.  2  Jan.,  1846,  in  Calais, 
Me. 

8.  Charles  Edgar,  b.  22  July,  1848,  in  Orono,  Me.;  d.  27  Apr., 
1883,  in  Minneapolis. 

9.  Mary  Emma,  twin  with  Charles  E.;  is  a  deaf  mute;  unmar.; 
home,  in  Minneapolis. 

10.  Clara  Olivia,  b.  7  Nov.,  1851,  in  Orono,  Me.;  mar.  10  Apr., 
1872,  Henry  R.  Gardner,  lumber  merchant,  b.  13  Oct.,  1842;  home, 
in  Minneapolis.     Issue: 

1st.     Mary  Cornelia,  b.  4  May,  1873. 

2nd.  Elizabeth,  b.  4  Mar.,  1875;  mar.  22  Feb.,  1893,  Ray 
Pearce.     Issue: 

I.     Richard  Henry,  b.  6  Mar.,  1898,  in  Minneapolis. 
3d.     George  Lotham,  b.  28  July,  1882. 
4th.     Brackett,  b.  26  Jan.,  1885. 
5th.     Alice  Louise,  b.  4  Oct.,  1886. 
6th.     Florence,  b.  15  May,  1890;  d.  15  Nov.,  1890. 

11.  Annah  Rhodes,  b.  5  Mar.,  1854;  d.  14  Sept.,  1855,  in  Orono. 

12.  William  Procter,  b.  26  Feb.,  1857.     See  family  36. 

FAMILY    NO.    17. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  James,  William. 
William  Brackett  was  born  October  5,    1816,  in  Fairfax,  Kenne- 
bec county,  Me.     In  his  youth,  with  his  father's  family,   removed  to 
Aroostook  county,  where  he  lived  during  the  remainder  of  his  life; 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  333 

residence,  in  Weston;  was  a  farmer.  Married  Eucinda  Smith,  born 
March  16,  1813,  died  December  13,  1873,  daughter  of  Joseph  and 
wife,  Cram,  of  Mt.  Vernon,  Me.     Died  August  21,  1855.     Issue: 

1.  Almeda,  b.  14  Feb.,  1839;  mar.  14  Jan.,  1866,  William  Mac- 
Allister,  born  18  Apr.,  1837,  son  of  William  E.  and  wife,  Ann  Ames, 
of  Milltown,  N.  B.;  home,  in  Orient,  Me.;  is  a  lumberman  and 
dealer  in  real  estate.     Issue: 

1st.  Dizzie  J.  MacAllister,  b.  28  Aug.,  1866;  mar.  21  Aug., 
1884,  J.  H.  Dunlap. 

2nd.     E.  W.  MacAllister,  b.  16  May,  1868. 

2.  Ophelia,  b.  26  June,  1840;  mar.  4  Nov.,  1864,  Varney  Putnam, 
b.  30  Oct.,  1839,  son  of  Amos  and  wife,  Christina  Normwood,  of 
Houlton,  Me.;  home,  in  Weston,  Me.     No  issue. 

3.  Horace  M.,  b.  16  Jan.,  1844,  in  Weston,  Me.,  where  he  resided 
until  his  death,  in  the  fall  of  1905;  was  a  farmer;  mar.  13  July,  1879, 
Arminta  Hutchison,  b.  22  May,  1856,  dau.  of  Addison  and  wife, 
Mahala  Lindsey,  of  Hodgdon,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.      Pearl,  b.  25  May,   [880. 
I.     Gilbert  E.,  b.  20  Nov.,  1844.     See  family  37. 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  James,  James  C. 

James  C.  Brackett  was  born  September  28,  1818,  in  Albion, 
Kennebec  county,  Me.;  in  1834,  with  his  parents,  went  to  Weston, 
in  the  southwest  corner  of  Aroostook  county;  in  1838,  removed  to 
Calais,  Me.  When  his  brother,  Luther,  was  sheriff  of  Washington 
county,  was  one  of  the  deputy  sheriffs.  Removed  to  Corinth,  where 
he  continued  to  reside  for  over  fifty  years  and  until  his  death,  in 
1904;  served  the  town  as  selectman,  assessor,  overseer  of  the  poor, 
and  was  census  enumerator  in  1880  and  1890;  was  a  farmer.  Mar- 
ried Elizabeth  Ball,  born  July  27,  1821,  died  August  31,  1882;  mar- 
ried (2nd)  E.  M.  Sawyer.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  E.,  b.  30  June,  1848;  mar.  21  Feb.,  1897,  Joseph  E. 
Lewis;  home,  in  Holliston,  Mass.     No  issue. 

2.  Oscar,  b.  6  Feb.,  1850.     See  family  37  A. 

.'!.  Martha,  b.  25  Mar.,  1852;  mar.  Charles  E.  Parent;  have 
children,  Eward  and  Herbert  I. 

4.  Sarah,  b.  15  May,  1854;  d.  11  July,  1876. 

5.  James  F.,  b.  8  Feb.,  1856;  d.  19  Mar.,  1862. 

6.  Ellen  F.,  b.  31  Oct.,  1858;   is  a  trained  nurse. 

•    7.     William  H.,  b.  15  Apr.,  i860;  is  a  painter;  resides  in  Corinth. 

8.  Caroline  W.,  b.  9  Jan.,  1862;  mar.  Charles  Dolliver;  home, 
in  Eewiston,  Me. 

9.  Charles  E.,  b.  2  Apr.,  1865;   home,  in  Corinth,  Me. 

10.  Elizabeth,  b.  13  Feb.,  1869;   home,  in  Corinth,  Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From  Family  No.  6.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  John,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  in  1823;  married  Adaline  Hanson;  a 
farmer;   home,  in  Perry,  Washington  county,  Me.     Issue: 


334  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Fannie  M.,  b.  15  Mar.,  1853;  mar.  George  Potter;  home,  in 
Calais,  Me. 

2.  Harriet  L-,  b.  4  May,  1855;  mar.  John  Nesburn;  home,  in 
Salem,  Ohio. 

3.  Mary,  b.  16  Oct.,  1857;  mar.  Eugene  Morse;  home,  in  Law- 
rence, Mass. 

4.  Addie,  b.  22  Mar.,  1859;  mar.  Harry  Taylor;  home,  in  Law- 
rence, Mass. 

5.  Charles,  b.  21  July,  1862;   home,  in  Somerville,  Mass. 

0.  Seth  L-,  b.  13  Feb.,  1865;  home,  in  Perry,  Me. 

7.  Annie,  b.  31  Jan.,  1867;  mar.  Fred  Byrons;  home,  in  Law- 
rence. 

8.  Eva  E.,  b.  17  Mar.^iSGq;  mar.  Dr.  W.  R.  O'Connor;  home, 
in  Lawrence. 

9.  Josie,  b.  22  Mar.,  1871;  mar.  D.  B.  Knowles;  home,  in  Law- 
rence. 

10.  Alice  M.,  b.  3  July,  1873;  d.  in  1874. 

11.  Ralph,  b.  13  June,  1877. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From   Family  No.   7.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  Hiram,  George. 

George  Brackett  was  born  October  24,  1821,  in  China,  Me.,  mar- 
ried (1st)  Frances  Hickey,  born  in  1823;  married  (2nd)  Rebecca 
Mandy;  lived  in  Weston  where  he  died  February  11,  1894;  was  a 
farmer.     Issue,  by  first  wife: 

1.  Hiram,  b.  in  1847;  mar.  Esther  Gulliver;  home,  in  Danforth, 
Me.;  had  Ross,  who  mar.  Maud  L-  Gore;  Mina;  Zemro;  Blaine;  and 
another. 

2.  Nancy  S.,  b.  in  185 1;  mar.  Alex  Manuel;  home,  in  Houghton, 
Me. 

3.  Alva,  b.  in  1852;   mar.  (1st)  Meinliss;    (2nd)  Brown. 

4.  Thomas  W.,  b.  in  1854. 
«•  5.     Sarah,  b.  in  1858. 

(i.     Elvira,  b.  in  July,  i860. 

7.     James,  who  mar.  Lizzie  Mondy. 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From  Family  No.   7.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  Hiram,  Luther. 

Luther  Brackett  was  born  December  8,  1838,  in  Weston,  Me.,  in 
which  town  he  has  lived  all  his  life  except  four  years  in  Foxcroft;  is 
a  farmer  and  lumberman.     Married  August   14,  1868,  Julia  Brown, 

widow,   nee  Wilkins,  born  December  25,   1838,  daughter  of and 

wife,  Neal,  of  Brookton,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Emma,  b.  11  May,  1870;  mar.  14  Mar.,  1887,  Alva  Springer; 
home,  in  Havland,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Jennie,  b.  19  May,  1888. 

2nd.     Earl  L.,  b.  24  May,  1897;  d.  25  Dec,  1898. 

2.  Arthur,  b.  11  Feb.,  1875;  lives  in  Danforth,  Me. 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  335 

FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From  Family  No.   8.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  Joseph,  Hiram. 

Hiram  Braekett  was  born  November  n,  1816,  in  Albion,  Me.; 
resided  for  many  years  in  Ashland  and  Presque  Isle,  Aroostook 
county,  Me.;  later  lived  in  Pine  city,  Minn.,  where  he  died  Febru- 
ary 5,  1884;  was  a  farmer  and  lumberman.  Married  July  27,  1845, 
Lucy  Lovejoy,  born  in  China,  Me.,  died  July  18,  1858.     Issue: 

1.  John  Y.,  b.  8  Sept.,  1846;  mar.  Susan  Thomson;  home,  at 
Mora,  Kanabac  county,  Minn.;  children  are,  Fred  L.;  Maud  M.; 
Alice  L.,  mar.  Henry  McKusick;  George  H.;  Abbie  E.;  Anna  C; 
Inez  C;   Frank  H.;   Henry  J.:  and  Caroline  D. 

2.  Emily  Moore,  b.  11  Nov.,  1847;  mar.  Harry  A.  Linn;  d.  14 
Oct.,  1 89 1,  in  Waukesha,  Wis. 

.'!.  Louise  Dunn,  b.  12  July,  1849;  mar.  Henry  D.  Crowhurst;  d. 
8  Apr.,  1889,  in  Pine  city,  Minn. 

4.  Albert  Foster,  b.  22  Feb.,  1851;  mar.  Delia  Madden;  lives  in 
Pine  city;  have  children,  M.  Louise;  Melzar  F.;  Elizabeth  A.; 
Catherine  E.;   Hiram  J.;   Agnes  F. 

5.  Frank,  b.  9  Feb.,  1853.     See  family  38. 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From   Family  No.   9.     Descent:      Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  Levi,  Charles  H. 

Charles  H.  Braekett  was  born  February  9,  1833,  in  Brownfield, 
Me.;  was  a  shoemaker;  resided  in  Haverhill,  Mass.;  died  January 
22,  1905,  in  Topham,  Vt.,  where  he  is  buried.  Married  May  10, 
1869,  Mrs.  Eliza  P.  Snedd,  nee  Abbott,  born  August  23,  1836,  daugh- 
ter of  William  and  wife,  Hannah  S.  Canney,  of  Dover,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Susan  H.,  b.  16  Mar.,  1870;  home,  in  Haverhill. 

2.  Charles  E.,  b.  3  Mar.,  1872;  home,  in  Haverhill;  is  a  shoe- 
maker; mar.  31  May,  1904.  Albina  Worthen,  b.  3  Feb.,  1870,  widow 
of  W.  W.  Worthen,  nee  Racine,  dau.  of  Paul  and  wife,  Saraphine 
Perry,  of  Bradford,  Mass.;  Mr.  Brackett's  summer  home  is  in  Top- 
ham,  Vt. 


FAMILY     NO.    24. 

From  Family  No.  9.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph.  Levi,  Hiram. 

Hiram  Braekett  was  born  November  11,  1839,  in  Ossipee,  N.  H.; 
is  a  farmer;  resides  in  New  Durham,  same  state;  married  July  12, 
1864,  Augusta  French,  born  March  25,  1843,  daughter  of  Jeremiah 
B.  and  wife,  Mary  J.  Hodgdon,  of  Farmington,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Nellie  P.,  b.  4  Jan.,  1866. 

2.  Emma  D.,  b.  9  Feb.,  1867. 

3.  Hattie  M.,  b.  18  Mar.,  1870. 

4.  Mina  A.,  b.   24  Sept.,    1872;   mar.   21  July.    1897,   Eugene  C. 
Young;   home,  in  Farmington,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1st.     Malcolm  Johnson  Young,  b.  21  Oct.,  1901. 


336  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

5.     Alice  B.,  b.  5  Oct.,  1874;   mar.  18  Aug.,  1894,  Elmer  E.  Mar- 
shall;  home,  in  Aver,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.      Katherynne,  b.  28  July,  1895. 

2nd.     Lauriston  Brackett,  b.  25  Jan.,  1897. 
(■>.     Theressa,  b.  17  June,  1876;   d.  17  Sept.,  1876. 
7.     Krwin  H.,  b.  30  Aug.,  1878;   resides  in  Farmington. 


FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From  Family  No.  n.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  Thomas,  John  S. 
John  Sullivan  Brackett  was  born  October  2,  1839,  in  Somers- 
worth,  N.  H.;  was  a  commission  merchant;  resided  in  Boston  and 
Needham,  Mass.;  home,  in  Hyde  Park,  Mass.;  at  time  of  his  death, 
September  15,  1902,  was  in  Wakefield,  N.  H.  Married  April  6, 
1864,  Betsey  E.  Tuttle,  born  March  3,  1839,  died  November  28,  1893, 
daughter  of  Enoch,  Jr.,  and  wife,  Hannah  Colley,  of  Stafford,  N.  H. 
Issue: 

1.  Frank  Tuttle,  b.   27  Nov.,  1867;  is  a  druggist  in  Hyde  Park,. 
Mass. 

2.  Bertha,  b.  19  Sept.,  1870;  home,  in  Hyde  Park;  mar.  26  July, 
1902,  Henry  A.  Hoit. 

FAMILY    NO.   26. 

From  Family  No.  12.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  James,  James,  George  W. 
George  W.  Brackett  was  born  May  20,  1833,  in  Cohokia,  Illi- 
nois; there  he,  as  did  his  brothers  and  sisters,  attended  a  private 
school;  completed  his  law  course  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  and  practiced 
in  Illinois  and  St.  Eouis.  In  1849,  accompanied  by  his  uncle, 
Colonel  Vital  Jarrot,  and  his  half  brothers,  Robert  and  Nicholas 
McCracken,  he  went  overland  to  California,  to  seek  a  fortune  in  the 
gold  fields.  The  brothers  and  uncle  engaged  in  trade,  erected  stores 
at  cross  roads  several  miles  apart.  Accompanied  by  a  Mr.  Burns 
while  travelling  from  one  store  to  another  he  and  his  companion 
became  snow-bound  and  shortly  Mr.  Burns  sickened  and  died.  At 
the  time  Mr.  Brackett  was  in  the  eighteenth  year  of  his  age,  and  was 
thus  left  alone  in  the  mountains  for  three  months,  with  but  a  scant 
supply  of  provisions.  To  wile  away  the  long  lonesome  hours  he 
devoted  his  time  to  the  study  of  Shakespeare's  poems,  a  cop}*  of 
which  he  was  so  fortunate  as  to  have  among  his  few  effects.  Every 
night  and  morning  he  fired  his  gun  in  hopes  to  direct  assistance  to 
him,  but  no  answer  came  for  many  a  long  dreary  day.  At  last  there 
reached  his  ears  the  welcome  sound  of  firing;  repeatedly  he  dis- 
charged his  gun  to  direct  friend  or  foe,  which  ever  it  should  prove  to 
be,  to  his  abode,  and  soon  appeared  an  Indian,  a  messenger  on  snow- 
shoes,  the  bearer  of  news  from  his  uncle  to  act  as  guide  for  him 
to  safety  and  plenty.  In  California  he  remained  five  years;  returned 
to  Illinois,  and  in  the  sixties  was  elected  a  member  of  the  legislature. 
During  the  war  was  assistant  provost  marshal;  also  held  several 
public  positions  by  appointment  and  election.  Was  well  read  par- 
ticularly on  the  history  of  Illinois  and  Missouri.     Had  a  large  circle 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  337 

of  friends  with  whom  he  was  popular  because  of  his  many  good 
social  qualities.  He  died  March  19,  1898,  in  St.  Louis;  married 
November  22,  1859,  Mrs.  Margaret  Busby  Turley,  born  October  14, 
1835,  died  August  21,  1903,  daughter  of  James  Busby  and  wife, 
Kathryn  Kelley,  of  St.  Louis.     Issue: 

1.  Hortense  J.,  b.  6  Aug.,  1864;  mar.  18  May,  1903,  Bernard 
Edward  Spiekermann,  stationer,  book-binder  and  printer,  b.  20 
Sept.,  1858,  son  of  Bernard  Henry  and  wife,  Mary  Keitz,  both  born 
in  Germany,  residents  in  St.  Louis  at  time  of  death.  Home  at  "The 
Lilacs,"  Shelter  station,  St.  Louis  co.,  Mo. 

2.  Mary  Rachel,  b.  12  Dec,  1865;  mar.  5  June,  1889,  John 
D.  La  Croix,  merchant,  b.  7  Apr.,  1856,  son  of  Marcellus  and  wife, 
Adele  Bayard;  home,  in  Vincennes,  Ind. 

3.  Georgie  Belle,  b.  29  Jan.,  1870;  home,  in  St.  Louis. 
Also  three  children  who  died  in  infancy. 

FAMILY    NO.    27. 

From  Family  No.   12.     Descent:      Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  James,  James,  James  L. 

James  Lord  Brackett  was  born  August  14,  1835,  in  Cahokia, 
111.,  in  the  old  Jarrot  mansion,  built  about  1800;  was  educated  in  the 
Catholic  schools  of  St.  Louis;  graduated  from  the  school  of  Phar- 
macy in  that  city  and  for  several  years  was  in  the  drug  business;  for 
a  time  he  was  so  engaged  at  Aspen,  Col.,  and  while  there  was  more 
or  less  interested  in  mining  ventures;  returned  to  St.  Louis  and  took 
a  course  of  medicine,  one  in  the  Allopathic  college  and  one  in  the 
Eclectic  college;  in  his  practice  he  favored  the  eclectic  system; 
enjoyed  a  very  extended  practice  and  was  noted  for  his  charitable 
work;  died  January  1,  1898.  Married  October  3,  i860,  Louise  Subit, 
born  January  20,  1843,  daughter  of  Daniel  Louis  (died  April  15, 
[884)  and  wife,  Isaline  Tourt  (died  September  5,  1896)  natives  of 
Geneva,  Switzerland,  came  to  America  in  1849.     Issue: 

1.  Lawrence  James,  b.  28  June,  1861;   d.  4  July,  1862. 

2.  Darville  S..  b.  19  Sept.,  1867.     See  family  39. 

FAMILY    NO.    28. 

From  Family  No.   12.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  James,  James,  Samuel  J. 

Samuel  J.  Brackett  was  born  October  9,  1837,  in  Belleville,  111.; 
was  educated  at  the  Christian  Brothers'  college  in  St.  Louis;  in  1853, 
began  the  study  of  dentistry  under  the  celebrated  Doctor  Timmy, 
who  subsequently  went  abroad  and  continued  his  practice  in  Berlin. 
Dr.  Brackett  was  admitted  to  practice  in  1859,  and  by  assiduous  labor 
and  hard  study  won  for  himself  not  only  fame  but  also  a  good  income. 
In  1870,  he  made  the  tour  of  Europe  and  visited  his  old  preceptor, 
who  insisted  that  the  scholar  surpassed  his  teacher  in  their  common 
field  of  labor.  In  1878,  he  took  a  course  in  medicine  and  received 
the  degree  of  M.  D.  later;  he  gained  a  reputation  as  a  specialist. 
From  about  the  time  of  his  wife's  death,  his  health  failed  though  he 
never  gave  up  his  practice  until  a  few  months  before  his  death,  May 
13,  1894.  Married  in  May,  1866,  Elizabeth  Webster,  died  April  18, 
1883;  home,  in  St.  Louis.     Issue: 


338  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Bertha  May,  b.  25  Aug.,  1867;  mar.  in  Jan.,  1888,  Augustus 
Eiseman.     Issue: 

1st.     Yalentina,  b.  in  Jan.,  1889. 

2nd.     Augusta  Ilortense,  b.  in  Mar.,  1891;  d.  in  Apr.,  1893. 

3d.     Samuel  Brackett,  b.  in  Sept.,  1893. 

FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From   Family   No.    13.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  John,  Allen,  Charles  A. 

Charles  Allen  Brackett  was  born  December  31,  1830,  in  China, 
Me.;  in  his  younger  days  after  reaching  manhood  was  for  several 
years  on  the  Pacific  slope;  died  March  21,  1894,  in  Pembroke,  Giles 
county.  Ya.;  married  in  Boston,  September  29,  1853,  by  Rev.  Mr. 
A.  L.  Stone,  to  Abby  Benson,  born  July  3,  1834,  in  China,  died 
October  26,  1857,  in  Indian  Yalley,  Sierra  county,  Cal.,  daughter  of 
of  Rev.  Mr.  Dudley  W.  Benson  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Doe  Benson. 
Issue: 

1.  Abbie  Octavia,  b.  8  Oct.,  1857,  in  Indian  Yalley,  Sierra  county, 
Cal.;  mar.  15  Mar.,  1887,  Alvah  P.  Mosher;  resides  in  China,  Me. 
Mr.  Mosher  is  a  farmer.     Issue: 

1st.     Sara  B..  b.  26  Mar.,  1889;  d.  17  May.  1901. 

2nd.     Alice  K.,  b.  13  June,  1896. 

FAMILY   NO.   30. 

From  Family  No.  13.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  John,  Allen,  Horace  W. 

Horace  Wiley  Brackett,  of  Boston,  Mass.,  was  born  October  26, 
1833,  in  China,  Me.;  mariner,  was  vessel  owner,  engaged  in  coasting 
trade;  voyaged  to  West  Indies  and  ports  on  western  coast  of  Europe; 
one  of  his  vessels  while  on  the  stocks  was  burned  in  the  Belfast  (Me.) 
fire  of  1873;  since  about  1880  has  resided  in  Boston;  served  during 
the  civil  war  in  the  LTnited  States  navy  as  acting  ensign  from  January 
21,  iS64to  September  6,  1865,  when  he  resigned.  Married  August 
12,  1862,  Marinda  I.  Stone,  born  December  8,  1835.     Issue: 

1.  Isabella  Allen,  b.  13  Nov.,  1868;  mar.  William  H.  Ensworth. 
M.  D.     Resides  in  East  Boston,  Mass. 

2.  William  Allen,  who  d.  1  Mar.,  1873. 

3.  Marian  \\\.  b.  4  Apr.,  1875. 

FAMILY    NO.    31. 

From  Family  No.  14.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  John,  James  H.,  Myron. 

Myron  Brackett  was  born  December  1,  1850,  in  China,  Me.; 
attended  school  at  Galesville,  Wis.;  has  served  the  town  in  which  he 
lives,  for  several  years,  as  chairman  of  its  board  of  supervisors;  as  a 
member  of  the  county  board  has  served  on  several  important  com- 
mittees; is  a  farmer.  Resides  in  the  town  of  Little  Falls,  Monroe 
county,  ten  miles  north  of  the  city  of  Sparta,  Wis.  Keeps  open 
house  the  year  'round.  Should  any  reader  go  by  his  home,  don't 
hesitate  to  stop;  and,  if  the  prospects  are  that  you  will  not  be  seated  at 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  339 

the  first  table,  just  mention  that  you  know  his  brother  and  you  will 
be  seated  at  the  right  hand  of  the  host.  Married  October  4,  1877, 
Agnes  Blodgette,  born  in  1856,  daughter  of  Hudson  and  wife,  Eliza- 
beth MeCumber,  of  Sparta,  Wis.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Agnes,  b.  12  July,  1880,  in  Little  Falls,  Wis.;  mar. 
Albert  Isensee,  farmer  in  Little  Falls,  son  of  Andrew  Isensee.  Issue: 
Helen  Agnes;  Theresa  Lola;  Frances  Harriet;  Alberta  Belle;  Myron 
Brackett,  b.  10  June,  1904;   Mary  Alice. 

2.  Lola  Warner,  b.  22  Apr.,  1882. 

3.  Alice  May,  b.  25  Aug.,  1884. 

4.  Harriet  Isabelle,  b.  2  Feb.,  1890. 

FAMILY    NO.    32. 

From  Family  No.    14.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  John,  James  H.,  Herbert  I. 

Herbert  Ierson  Brackett  was  born  December  18,  1859,  in  China, 
Me.;  attended  school  at  Galesville,  Wis.,  and  Valparaiso,  Ind.; 
admitted  to  practice  law  in  1887;  elected  district  attorney  for  Jackson 
county,  Wis.,  fall  of  1890;  resided  in  Black  River  Falls,  Wis.,  from  1884 
to  [893,  and  in  Washington,  I).  C,  since  1893;  is  a  member  of  the 
board  of  pension  appeals  in  the  office  of  the  Secretary  of  the  Interior, 
appointed  in  September,  1893;  held  the  office  of  historian  in  Brackett 
Family  Association  since  1902.  Married  June  14,  1886,  Catherine 
Williams,  born  August  22,  1863,  in  Calmus,  Dodge  county,  Wis., 
daughter  of  Rev.  Mr.  David  R.  Williams;  he  was  born  in  May,  1813, 
in  Wales,  died  March  13,  1897,  in  Fox  Lake,  Wis.,  married  Mary 
Richards,  was  son  of  Richard  Williams;  he  married  Sarah  David, 
was  son  of  William  Owen  (the  father's  Christian  name  became  the 
son's  surname);  he  lived  at  home  farm,  Cold  Bach;  neighborhood, 
Brithdir;  town,  Dolgelley;  Merionethshire.  Mary  Richards  was  born 
in  September,  1820,  died  in  September,  1890,  was  daughter  of  Hugh 
Richards  and  wife,  Ellen,  of  Darouen,  Montgomeryshire,  Whales. 
Issue: 

1.  Corinne  E.,  b.  5  Apr.,   [887,  in  Black  River  Falls,  Wis. 

2.  Catherine  G.,  b.  10  June,  1892,  in  Black  River  Falls,  Wis. 

3.  James  Herbert,  b.  17  Aug.,  1893,  in  Columbus,  Wis. 


TENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    33. 

From  Family  No.   15.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  James,  Luther,  Frederick. 

Frederick  Brackett  was  born  December  20,  1840,  in  Weston,  Me.; 
served  in  civil  war  in  6th  Maine  volunteer  infantry  from  April  30, 
1861  to  December  1,  1861,  when  he  was  discharged  on  account  of 
physical  disability.  Was  clerk  in  War  Department  from  October  5, 
1863  to  June  15,  1866;  resigned  and  became  bookkeeper  for  W.  D. 
Washburn  &  Co.,  of  Minneapolis.  Was  deputy  collector  of  internal 
revenue  from  February  20,    1867  to  August  1,    1870;  contractor  for 


340  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

grading  on  N.  P.  R.  R.,  in  1870  and  1871.  Engaged  in  insurance 
and  real  estate  business  from  1872-6.  Served  as-  clerk  in  United 
States  Senate  in  1877;  clerk  in  general  land  office  from  April  2,  1877 
to  September  3,  1883;  resigned  and  became  land  attorney  for  the  St. 
Paul  M.  M.  R.  R.  and  other  roads  in  Minnesota.  Appointed  July 
27,  isx.s,  A.  A.  general  of  G.  A.  R.,  with  headquarters  in  Washing- 
ton. Also  appointed  secretary  of  Harrison  inaugural  committee  in 
[888;  March  25,  1889  special  agent  of  customs;  April  1,  1889,  chief 
clerk  of  United  States  Treasury  Department,  salary  $3,000;  March 
26,  1890,  major  of  2nd  battalion  1st  regiment  of  militia  of  District  of 
Columbia;  resigned  August  31,  1891,  and  appointed  September  1, 
1891,  special  agent  of  Treasury  Department  at  salary  of  $2,920  per 
annum  and  traveling  expenses,  to  visit  France,  England,  Spain  and 
Portugal  to  give  information  to  intending  exhibitors  as  to  the  customs 
regulations  lor  the  admission  of  foreign  exhibits  to  the  World's  Col- 
umbian exposition,  for  which  he  was  appointed  by  the  exposition 
authorities  a  special  commissioner.  Appointed  September  1,  1891, 
delegate  to  the  International  convention  for  the  protection  of  immi- 
grants, held  at  Paris;  ordered  July  26,  1892,  as  attache  on  the  staff 
of  Director-general  Davis  of  the  exposition,  to  supervise  for  him  the 
acceptance  of  foreign  exhibits;  promoted  November  11,  1892,  to  sal- 
ary of  $4,745;  resigned  as  special  agent  April  30,  1893.  Appointed 
July  1,  1894,  general  manager  of  Baltimore  Centennial  Exposition 
association;  May  5,  1896,  by  the  governor  of  Maryland,  delegate  to 
the  Southern  States  Exposition  convention  at  Atlanta,  Ga.;  October 
23,  1896,  by  the  governor  of  Maryland  as  commissioner  for  Tennessee 
Centennial  exposition;  November  1,  1896,  secretary  of  the  McKinley 
inaugural  committee;  March  24,  1897,  chief  of  the  appointment  divi- 
sion United  States  Treasury  Department,  salary  $2,750.  Was  acting 
chief  of  United  States  secret  service  from  January  7,  1898,  to  Febru- 
ary 21,  1898;  resigned  from  Treasury  Department  August  15,  1898. 
Appointed  August  16,  1898,  secretary  and  disbursing  agent  of  the 
United  States  commission  to  the  Paris  exposition  of  1900,  salary 
84,500  per  annum;  term  of  office  expired  by  law  August  15,  1901; 
engaged  in  private  business  until  March  11,  1905,  when  he  was 
appointed  a  clerk  in  the  Treasury  Department.  Married  May  31, 
1866,  Narcissa  A.  Shryock,  born  January  26,  1848,  daughter  of 
George  W.  and  wife,  Susannah  Foard;  her  parents  were  born  in 
Maryland,  resided  in  Baltimore,  Washington  and  Minneapolis. 
Issue: 

1.     George  Frederick,  b.  8  Nov.,  1868,  in  Minn.,  Minn.;  mar.  28 
Oct.,  1892,  Bessie  Rock;  home,  in  Ridgewood,  N.  J.     Issue: 
1st.     Elizabeth  Rock,  b.  12  Oct.,  1893,  in  New  York  city. 
2nd.     Joseph  Rock,  b.  9  Dec,  1895,  in  New  York  city. 

-.  Mina  Adelaide,  b.  3  Feb.,  1870,  in  Minn.,  Minn.;  mar.  14 
Nov.,  1904,  William  Francis  Mahouy,  b.  12  Dec,  1869,  son  of 
Daniel  F.  Mahony,  b.  in  Cork,  Ireland,  and  Katherin  Maloney,  b. 
in  Dungarvan,  Ireland.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  W.  F.  Mahony  reside  in 
Washington,  D.  C,  on  Girard  street. 

3.  William  Windom,  b.  21  Sept.,  1878,  in  Washington,  D.  C; 
mar.  17  Aug.,  1904,  Helen  Thompson,  nee  Watson;  home,  in  New- 
ark, N.  J. 


DEACON    JAMES,     OF    BERWICK  341 

FAMILY    NO.    34. 

From  Family  No.  16.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  James,  Henry  H.,  Henry  H.,  Jr. 
Henry  Hartwell  Braekett,  Jr.,  was  born  April  21,  1835,  in  Wes- 
ton, Me.;  removed  to  Minnesota  in  1857;  home,  in  Minneapolis;  is  a 
stock  dealer;  married  July  27,  1863,  Aroline  H.  Varney,  born  June  4, 
1839,  daughter  of  Ira  and  wife,  Eliza  Luce,  of  Newburg,  Me.    Issue: 

1.  Minnie,  b.  17  Jan.,  1865. 

2.  Henry  H.,  b.  22  Jan.,  1869;  d.  —  Sept.,  1869. 

3.  Guy  Hartwell,  b.  15  Mar.,  1871;  d.  —  Sept.,  1871. 

4.  Chauncy  Varney,  b.  7  May,  1873;  d  —  Sept.,  1873. 

5.  Grace  Varney,  b.  2  Oct.,  1876. 

FAMILY    NO.    35. 

From  Family  No.  16.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  James,  Henry  H.,  George  A. 

George  Augustus  Braekett  was  born  September  16,  1836,  in 
Calais,  Me.;  raised  in  Orono,  Me.,  where  he  resided  until  his 
removal,  in  April,  1857,  to  Minneapolis.  In  business  he  was 
engaged,  from  soon  after  his  arrival  in  Minneapolis,  in  conducting 
meat  markets,  and  eventually  became  connected  with  a  corporation 
engaged  in  packing  beef  and  pork  located  at  New  Brighton,  near 
Minneapolis.  During  the  war  he  was  a  contractor,  supplied  beef  for 
the  use  of  a  regiment,  and  in  this  connection  was  with  the  army 
which  operated  against  the  Sioux  Indians.  While  hunting  with  a 
companion  he  was  pursued  by  the  Indians,  and  his  companion,  a 
Lieutenant  Freeman,  was  killed.  He  made  his  escape  after  dis- 
mounting, while  the  Indians  endeavered  to  capture  their  horses. 
After  walking  two  hundred  twenty-five  miles  he  rejoined  the  army. 
Seven  days  had  passed,  during  which  he  had  but  little  provision;  the 
fifth  day's  journey  brought  him  back  to  where  his  companion  was 
killed:  however,  with  his  new  bearings  he  was  able  to  reach  his 
friends  and  safety.  Several  years  subsequently  to  the  war  he  was  a 
contractor  in  constructing  railroads.  Held  city  offices  from  an  early 
date  after  his  arrival  in  Minneapolis,  and  in  1873  was  elected  mayor; 
later,  was  park  commissioner,  in  which  capacity  he  rendered  the  city 
valuable  service.  Is  an  ardent  advocate  of  the  cause  of  temperance 
and  has  been  closely  identified  with  works  of  charity,  having  given 
large  donations  for  the  betterment  of  the  unfortunate.  He  will  be 
recalled  to  the  memory  of  many  by  the  mention  of  his  connection 
with  the  Lord  Gordon  affair.  A  genuine  Englishman  —  and  a  rogue 
—  passed  himself  on  Jay  Gould  as  an  English  nobleman,  under  the 
title,  Lord  Gordon.  Such  a  combination  deceived  Gould,  who 
loaned  it  a  half  million;  when  he  found  that  he  had  been  imposed 
upon,  Gould  had  the  Englishman  arrested.  He  obtained  bail  and 
fled  to  Manitoba.  Mr.  Braekett  at  the  time  was  mayor  of  Minne- 
apolis, was  induced  to  send  his  chief  of  police  to  Manitoba  to  arrest 
Gordon,  and  finally  went  himself  to  assist  his  chief.  They  and  others 
secured  Gordon,  and  in  turn  were  promptly  arrested  as  kidnappers; 
afterwards  were  released.  There  was  considerable  bluster  on  the 
part  of  newspapers,  and  talk  in  certain  centers  of  a  rescue  of  Mr. 
Braekett  by  force.     Matters   quieted  down  and  the  affair  was  soon 


342  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

forgotten.     Married  August  19,    1858,   Ann  Maria  Hoyt,   born  Jan- 
uary 16,  1837,  in  Portland;  died  December  8,  1890.     Issue: 

1.  Alfred  H.,  b.  25  July,  1859;  mar.  Ida  Godfrey  of  New  Orleans. 

2.  Mary  L.,  b.  13  Aug.,  1861;  d.  30  Oct.,  1862. 

3.  Anna  L,.,  b.  23  Mar.,  1863;   d.  17  June,  1864. 

4.  George  S.,  b.  10  Dec,  1864;   d.  17  Dec,  1865. 

5.  William  I).,  b.  20  Dec,  1867.     See  family  40. 

('».     Susie  Belle,  b.  15  Jan.,    1869;   mar.  Harry  Dovvling  of  Wash- 
ington, D.  C. 

7.  Thomas  Thayer,  b.  23  Dec,    1872;  mar.   Mary  Montgomery  of 
Portsmouth,  N.  H.;  d.  19  Feb.,  1901.     No  issue. 

8.  Chapin  Russel,  b.  30  May,  1874.     See  family  41. 

9.  James  Darrow,  b.  7  Apr.,  1876;  mar.  Mary  Gould. 

10.  Frank  Hoyt,  b.  15  Jan.,  1879. 

11.  Karl  Loring,  b.  8  Nov.,  1882. 


FAMILY    NO.   36. 

From  Family  No.  16.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  James,  Henry  H.,  William  P. 

William  Proctor  Brackett  was  born  February  26,  1857,  in  Orono. 
Me.;  from  his  infancy  has  resided  in  Minneapolis;  is  a  dealer  in 
grain;  married  May  4,  1880,  Hattie  Belle  Bryant,  born  September 
27,  1858.     Issue: 

1.  George  Augustus,  b.  31  Dec,  1880;  d.  5  Feb.,  1881. 

2.  Charles  Henry,  b.  3  Dec,  1882;  d.  12  July,  1893. 

3.  Edgar  Allen,  b.  10  Jan.,  1884. 

4.  William  Proctor,  b.  2  Dec,  1890. 

5.  Scott,  b.  7  Jan.,  1894. 


FAMILY    NO.    37. 

From  Family  No.  17.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  James,  William,  Gilbert  L. 

Gilbert  Lafayette  Brackett  was  born  November  20,  1844,  in 
Weston,  Me.,  where  he  resided  until  his  death,  in  the  fall  of  1905; 
was  a  farmer;  married  July  2,  1879,  Hattie  Fletcher,  born  March  12, 
[864,  daughter  of  George  and  wife,  Mary  Brannen,  of  Forest  city,  Me. 
Issue: 

1.  Marion,  b.  7  Sept.,  1880. 

2.  Thaxter,  b.  25  July,  1882. 
.">.     Varney,  b.  14  May,  1886. 
4.     Addie,  b.  25  Sept.,  1889. 
.">.     Edward,  b.  5  July,  1895. 

6.  Inez,  b.  7  Mar.,  1897. 

7.  Phyllis,  b.  1  June,  1899. 


DEACON    JAMES,    OF    BERWICK  343 


FAMILY     NO.    37  A. 


From  Family  No.  iS.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  James,  James  L.,  Oscar. 

Oscar  Brackett  was  born  February  6,  1850,  in  Corinth,  Me.; 
when  a  young  man  he  went  to  Montana,  where  he  has  since  resided; 
is  engaged  extensively  in  stock-raising;  married  September  18,  1891, 
Ella  Lewis,  born  January  17,  1865,  daughter  of  Amos  Hibbs  Eewis 
and  wife,  Mary  Carr  Ykaddyn,  of  Harrison  county,  Ohio;  resides  in 
Terry,  Custer  county,  Montana.     Issue: 

1.  Frank  Hibbs,  b.  28  July,  1892;  d.  3  Aug.,  1905.  He  came  to 
his  death  by  drowning;  was  with  his  sisters  in  bathing  in  a  reservoir 
which  his  father  had  built  for  irrigating  purposes,  and  accidently  got 
in  too  deep  water. 

2.  Edith  M.,  b.  7  Mar.,  1894. 

.'!.     Constance  E.,  b.  2  Dec,  1895. 
4.     Evelyn  C,  b.  26  Apr.,  1899. 


FAMILY    NO.    38. 

From  Family  No.  22.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, James,  Joseph,  Joseph,  Hiram,  Frank. 

Frank  Brackett  was  born  February  9,  1853,  in  Ashland,  Me.;  is 
a  land  surveyor:  home,  in  Pine  city,  Minn.;  married  November  9, 
1887,  Mary  Sawyer,  born  in  1861,  daughter  of  Frank  and  wife,  Mary 
,  of  Rush  city,  Minn.     Issue: 

1.     Sidney,  b.  10  Aug.,  1889. 

L'.     Emily  Linn,  b.  17  Feb.,  1891. 

3.  Annie,  b.  3  Apr.,  1892. 

4.  Mary  Delia,  b.  16  Mar.,  1894. 

5.  Elbridge  Ernest,  b.  7  Mar.,  1896. 
<).     Thomas  Reed,  b.  24  Mar.,  1898. 
7.     Myrtia  V.,  iS  Mar.,  1900. 


FAMILY    NO.    39. 

From  Family  No.  27.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, James,  James,  James,  James  L.,  Darville  S. 

Darville  Sheridan  Brackett  was  born  September  19,  1867,  near 
Sedalia,  in  Pettis  county,  Missouri;  lived  in  St.  Louis  since  infancy; 
educated  at  Washington  university,  in  St.  Louis;  has  been  engaged 
in  commercial  life  since  he  left  college,  and  now  (1906)  is  second 
vice  president  of  the  Ralston  Purina  company,  manufacturers  of  the 
Ralston  breakfast  food.  Married  December  18,  1889,  in  Cincinnati, 
Victoria  Devonport,  born  May  6,  1870,  daughter  of  Thomas  and  wife, 
Elizabeth ,  of  England.     Issue: 

1.  Louise  Hortense,  b.  24  July,  1891. 

2.  Beatrice,  b.  22  Mar.,  1897;  is  dec.  (Sept.,  1904). 


344  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ELEVENTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    40. 

From  Family  No.  35.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  James,  Henry  H.,  George  A.,  William  D. 

William    Davidson  Brackett   was    born  December    20,    1867,    in 
Minneapolis,  Minn.;  is  a  manufacturing  machinist;  home,  in  Minne- 
apolis; married  June  14,    1893,  Cora  Shryer,   born  August  12,    1870, 
daughter  of  Thomas  W.  and  wife,  Mollie  Russell.     Issue: 
1.     Thomas  Shryer,  b.  23  Mar.,  1902. 

FAMILY   NO.    41. 

From  Family  No.  35.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
James,  Joseph,  James,  Henry  H.,  George  A.,  Chapin  R. 

Chapin  Russell  Brackett  was  born  May  30,  1874,  in  Minneapolis. 
in  which  city  he  has  lived  all  his  life;  married  December  31,    1902, 
Mary  Dipple,  born  November  16,  1876,  in  Minneapolis,   daughter  of 
Russell  and  wife,  Ella  Judd.     Issue: 
1.     John  Chapin,  b.  13  Oct.,  1903. 


JOSHUA,    OF    ACTON  345 


DIVISION    NO.   12. 


JOSHUA    BRACKETT   OF   ACTON    AND    HIS 
DESCENDANTS. 

SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    1. 

From  Chapter  VIII.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett,  the  youngest  son  of  Samuel  Brackett  and  wife, 
Elizabeth  Emery,  was  born  in  Berwick,  July  9,  1728.  In  the  records 
of  the  First  church  is  recorded  his  baptism  under  date  of  August  25, 
1728.  Berwick  was  his  dwelling  place  until  about  1780,  when  he 
removed  to  that  part  of  the  town  of  Shapleigh  now  in  the  town  of 
Acton,  York  county,  Me.,  where  he  resided  the  remainder  of  his 
long  life.  At  the  time  of  his  removal  to  Shapleigh  several  of  his  sons 
were  men  grown.  All  his  sons  accompanied  him  and  were  residents 
of  the  town;  his  descendants  there  and  in  the  neighboring  towns  are 
numerous.  He  was  drafted  to  serve  in  the  Continental  army;  his 
oldest  son  served  as  his  substitute. 

As  early  as  1758,  while  living  in  Berwick,  he  was  elected  to  the 
office  of  surveyor  of  lands,  which  he  continued  to  hold  for  several 
years.  He  was  chosen  selectman  of  the  town  of  Shapleigh  for  the 
years  1785  to  1790,  and  1792  to  1795,  inclusive. 

In  Berwick  and  in  Shapleigh,  he  followed  farming.  He  lived  to 
the  advanced  age  of  ninety-four  years,  and  survived  all  his  brothers 
except  one;  his  death  occurred  on  January  3,  1822.  Married  De- 
cember 3,  1755,  Anna  Libby,  baptized  February  9,  1735,  daughter  of 

Benjamin;  he  was  born  April  5,   171 1,  married  Sarah ,  died  in 

17 — ,  was  son  of  Deacon  Benjamin;  he  was  born  June  4,  1682,  lived  in 
Scarborough,  married  December  20,  1707,  Sarah  Stone,  died  Novem- 
ber 9,  1768,  was  son  of  John;  he  was  probably  born  in  England,  mar- 
ried Agnes  ,  he  was  son  of  John,  the  immigrant,  born  in  Eng- 
land, in  1602,  was  in  the  employ  of  John  Winter. 

Sarah  Stone  was  born  August  23,  1686,  was  daughter  of  Daniel; 
he  was  born  about  1643,  married  September  19,  1670,  Patience  Good- 
win, died  in  1713.  Patience  Goodwin  died  about  1716,  was  daughter 
of  Daniel;  he  died  before  1673,  wras  probably  son  of  Daniel  and  wife, 
Dorothy  Barker,  of  Oxford,  England,  who  died  before  1625.  Issue: 
1.     Mary,  bapt.  29  Aug.,  1757;  mar.  12  Sept.,  1776,  Silas  Hurd. 

Joshua,  b.  14  Mar.,  1758.     See  family  2. 
.3.     Jacob,  b.  14  Aug.,  1760.     See  family  3. 
4.     Benjamin,  b.  in  1763.     See  family  4. 
Simeon,  b.  3  Mar.,  1765.     See  family  5. 
Levi,  b.  30  Aug.,  1767.     See  family  6. 

Hannah,    bapt.   3  June,    1770;    mar.  Joseph  Dore;    had  dau., 
Patience  B.,  who  mar.  15  Apr.,  1819,  Andrew  Libby.     Issue: 


346  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.  Hannah  Brackett  Libbv,  b.  u  Aug.,  1821;  d.  16  Dec, 
1838. 

2nd.  Andrew  Brackett  Libby,  b.  6  Apr.,  1823;  d.  18  Sept., 
1828. 

3d.  Mary  Hatchings  Brackett,  b.  15  Mar.,  1827;  d.  16  Sept., 
1828. 

8.  Jotham,  b.  28  Apr.,  1772.     See  family  7. 

9.  Sally,  bapt.  5  July,  1774;  mar.  Samuel  Felch;   d.  in  1851. 

10.  Jonathan,  b.  in  1779.      See  family  8. 

SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.  1.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas.  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua.  Joshua. 
Joshua  Brackett  was  born  March  14.  1758,  in  Berwick;  was 
baptized  March  26,  1758.  He  served  as  a  private  -from  August  to 
November,  1776,  in  Captain  Samuel  Eeighton's  company.  Colonel 
Francis'  regiment;  also  served  four  months,  beginning  in  August, 
1777,  in  Captain  Samuel  Grant's  company,  Colonel  Joseph  Storer's 
regiment.  In  his  claim  for  pension,  he  saw  fit  to  give  an  account  of 
the  operations  in  which  his  regiment  participated;  this  he  did  in  a 
clear  and  concise  style.  He  stated  that  his  father,  Joshua,  Sr.,  was 
drafted,  in  August,  1776,  to  serve  in  Captain  Samuel  Leighton's 
company,  which  organization  was  to  join  the  army  at  Boston;  that 
he  offered  to  serve  in  his  father's  stead;  to  this  his  father  refused  to 
consent  until  he  was  informed  that  it  was  the  intention  of  the  son  to 
enlist  whether  he  served  in  lieu  of  his  father  or  not;  joined  the  com- 
pany at  Ouampheagan  landing,  in  Berwick;  marched  to  Dorchester, 
where  the  company  joined  Colonel  Francis'  regiment;  remained  in 
Dorchester  four  months  and  then  returned  in  Berwick.  That  in 
August,  1777,  his  father  was  again  drafted  for  service;  that, —  "I, 
Joshua  Brackett,  Jr.,  had  the  year  before  served  a  four  months'  cam- 
paign and  had  a  comfortable  time,  so  I  offered  to  take  the  place  of 
my  father  this  time  also,  or  to  enlist  with  said  Captain  Grant.  My 
father  said  if  I  would  go  I  might  a  second  time  take  his  place.  I 
accordingly  had  my  name  substituted  on  the  roll  by  the  captain  in 
place  of  my  father's.  The  company  met  at  Quampheagan,  in  Ber- 
wick; from  there  we  marched  to  Andover  in  Massachusetts,  to  draw 
arms;  from  thence  we  went  to  Bennington,  Vermont,  and  arrived 
there  the  day  after  the  battle  at  that  place  with  the  Tories  and  Hes- 
sians. I  think  General  Stark  commanded  in  that  battle.  We  tarried 
at  Bennington  about  twenty-four  hours;  from  thence  we  marched  to 
Stillwater  and  joined  the  Continental  army  in  the  regiment  of  Colonel 
Joseph  Storer  of  Kennebunk.  Our  major  was  a  Mr.  Ljttlefield  from 
the  town  of  Wells  *  ':  *  I  was  at  the  taking  of  General  Burgoyne; 
in  a  part  of  the  battle  General  Gates  commanded  our  brigade. 
About  10  o'clock  p.m.,  cannon  were  fired,  the  drums  immediately 
beat  to  arms,  and  the  battle  soon  commenced.  In  about  two  hours 
the  British  gave  way  but  still  kept  firing  on  the  retreat.  There  were 
scattering  guns  until  dark.     We  laid  on  our  arms  all  night.     The 


JOSHUA,    OF    ACTON  :!47 

next  day  there  was  not  much  fighting.  The  British  soon  after  took 
up  their  march  for  Saratoga.  We  followed  them  to  Saratoga,  where, 
in  the  course  of  a  fortnight  the  British  sent  in  a  flag  of  truce  and 
soon  after  surrendered.  From  Saratoga  we  marched  to  Albany  (N. 
Y.):  and  from  there  to  Queman's  Heights  about  twelve  miles  below 
Albany,  and  I,  with  twenty  others,  was  sent  about  sixty  miles  to 
guard  some  beef  at  Weatherton,  where  I  continued  until  discharged. 
The  captain  paid  me  sixty  dollars  at  Berwick.  All  of  said  money 
run  down  in  my  hands  and  was  good  for  nothing." 

His  claim  for  pension  was  allowed  at  eight  dollars  per  month, 
and  pension  at  that  rate  was  paid  him  until  his  death.  Although 
the  oldest  of  the  sons  of  Joshua  Brackett,  Sr.,  but  two  of  his  brothers 
survived  him;  he  died  November  22,  1851,  in  the  ninety-fourth  year 
of  his  age.  Soon  after  the  close  of  the  War  of  the  Revolution  he 
removed  from  Berwick  to  Shapleigh,  in  which  latter  town  he  dwelt 
until  he  died. 

He  had  good  mental  gifts  and  a  fair  education;  was  highly 
respected  by  all  who  knew  him,  and  in  his  old  age  was  a  favorite 
with  his  fellow  townsmen.  Although  he  had  no  sons,  there  are 
descendants  of  his  who  bear  his  surname,  a  singularity  that  is 
explained  in  the  account  of  the  life  of  his  well  remembered  daughter, 
Polly;  was  a  farmer.  He  married  September  10,  1784,  Mary  Tib- 
bets,  of  Shapleigh.     Issue: 

1.     Polly,  b.  in  1786.     See  family  9. 

'1.     Sally,  b.  in  178S;  mar.  James  Willey,  who  d.  29  Aug.,  1869. 
•'!.     Agnes,  b.  25  Oct.,  1798;  mar.  10  Feb.,  1822,  Samuel  Sanborn, 
b.    18   Dec,    1796;  resided  in  Milton,    N.   H.,   and  North    Berwick. 
Issue: 

1st.      Infant,  b.  and  d.  in  1824. 

2nd.     Mary,  b.  30  Apr.,  1825;  d.  11  Sept.,  1829. 

•'id.  Joshua,  b.  11  Apr.,  1827;  mar.  15  Feb.,  1849,  Esther 
Applebee. 

4th.  Mary,  b.  1  Aug.,  1830;  mar.  in  1850,  Hatch,  of  Kenne- 
bunk. 

5th.     Martha,  b.  28  June,  1834;  d.  16  June,  1844. 
4.     Lydia,  b.  in  1808;  never  mar. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jacob. 

Jacob  Brackett  was  born  August  14,  1760,  in  Berwick;  with  his 
father  went,  soon  after  the  close  of  the  War  of  the  Revolution,  to 
Shapleigh,  now  Acton,  in  which  town  he  dwelt  until  his  death,  Sep- 
tember 29,  1829;  was  a  farmer.  Married  May  1,  1796,  in  Lebanon, 
Hannah  Wentworth,  born  February,  25,  1777,  died  August  3,  1866, 
daughter  of  Gersom  Wentworth;  he  was  born  August  28,  1742, 
married  Hannah  Young,  was  sou  of  Captain  William;  he  was  born 
August  14,  1698,  lived  in  Somersworth,  N.  H.,  married  (2nd)  Abra 
Evans,  died  about  1779,  was  son  of  Benjamin  and  wife,  Sarah  Allen, 
probably  a  daughter  of  John,  of  Salisbury,  she  died  July  12,  1770, 
age,  ninety-one  years;  Benjamin  was  son  of  Elder  William,  the 
immigrant.     Abra    Evans  was  daughter  of   John,    who   was  son    of 


348  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Thomas,  who  married  Hannah  Brown.  The  farm  which  Jacob 
Brackett  owned  is  now  the  property  of  his  grandsons,  George  D.,  and 
Elmer  H.  Brackett.     Issue: 

I.  Rufus  W.,  b.  i  Apr.,  1798.     See  family  10. 

-.  Maria,  b.  24  June,  1800;  d.  7  Feb.,  1868;  mar.  James  Fernald, 
a  Free  Will  Baptist  minister;  lived  in  Saco.  Children:  EliB.;  Han- 
nah, mar.  Rev.  Daniel  Jackson;  Sophia  N.;  Susan,  mar.  William 
Frye,  had  Alice,  William  and  Susan;  Mary,  mar.  Eeavitt;  James; 
George;   Cassius. 

:;.      Eli,  h.  5  May,  1802;  d.  10  Aug.,  1818. 

I.  Sophia,  b.  5  Aug.,  1804;  d.  15  June,  1875;  mar.  Samuel 
Nesbit.  Child,  vSophronia,  who  mar.  Henry  Cadworth,  and  had 
Emma  and  Francis. 

5.  Israel,  b.  18  Dec,  1806;  d.  19  Apr.,  1807. 

6.  Harriet,  b.  1  Feb.,  1808;  d.  2  Oct.,  18S3;  mar.  Hubbard 
Stevens;  home,  in  Acton.  Children:  Hannah,  mar.  James  Mudgett; 
Joanna;  Susan;  John,  served  in  5th  Me.  vol.  inf.,  mar.  Nellie  Weeks; 
Mary,  mar.  Wesley;  Jacob,  mar.  Shapleigh,  had  Rosa  and  Harriet. 

7.  Clarissa,  b.  23  June,  1810;  d.  18  Nov.,  1821. 

8.  Susan,  b.  9  Aug.,  1812;  mar.  Theodore  Stevens;  lived  in  Saco. 
Children:  Mary,  mar.  Edwin  Hasty;  Jacob,  had  Frank,  Elmer  and 
Lenora;  Theodore;  Eunice;  Milton;  John;  Clarissa;  Charles;  Belle; 
Hannah. 

9.  William,  b.  31  Aug.,  1814;  d.  8  May,  1891;  mar.  Mahalia 
Hersom. 

10.  Eliza  G..  b.  13  Mar.,  1817;  d.  20  June,  1898;  mar.  George 
W.  Prescott;  home,  in  Acton.  Children:  Harriet,  mar.  Frank  B. 
Winchell,  had  Henry  and  Myrtie;  George,  mar.,  had  Harry;  Elmira, 
mar.  W.  O.  Shapleigh;  Oreanna,  mar.  N.  B.  Shapleigh;  Oren,  mar., 
and  had  Frank;   Hannah;  Mary;  Sarah;  Clara. 

II.  Jacob,  b.  26  Dec,  1820.     See  family  n. 

FAMILY    NO.   4. 

From  Family  No.  1.      Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Benjamin. 

Benjamin  Brackett  was  born  in  1763,  in  Berwick;  removed  with 
his  father's  family  to  the  town  of  Shapleigh,  now  Acton,  where  he 
resided  until  his  death,  October  25,  1835,  in  the  seventy-third  year  of 

his  age;  was  a  farmer;  married   (1st) Tibbetts;    (2nd)   Hannah 

Merrill;  (3d)  Mrs.  Hepziah  Merrill  (maiden  name  probably  Hurd), 
born  in  1779.     Issue: 

1.  Sally,  b.  in  1795;  was  child  by  first  wife;  mar.  Nathan  Merrill; 
had  children,  Brackett;  John;  Asa;  George;  Martha;  Mary;  Han- 
nah, and  one  other  that  d.  in  infancy. 

2.  Benjamin,  b.  29  Sept.,  1813.     See  family  12. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Simeon. 

Simeon  Brackett  was  born  March  3,  1765,  in  Berwick;  was  bap- 
tized April  28,   1765;  removed  to  Shapleigh,   now  Acton,  soon  after 


JOSHUA,    OF    ACTON  349 

the  close  of  the  War  of  the  Revolution,  where  he  dwelt  until  his  death, 
January  31,  1829;  was  a  farmer  and  blacksmith;  married  Hannah 
Goodwin,  born  February  19,  1775,  died  March  27,  1861,  daughter  of 
Nathan  Goodwin.     Issue: 

1.  Levi,  b.  15  July,  1793;   d.  22  Dec,  1820. 

2.  Permelia,  b.  22  June,  1795;  mar.  Moses  Folsom. 

3.  Rhoda,  b.  19  Apr.,  1798;  d.  2  Dec,  1820. 

4.  Cyrus,  b.  21  Dec,  1799;  d.  3  July,  1841. 

5.  Charlotte,  b.  30  Apr.,  1802;  d.  30  Oct.,  1820. 

6.  Simeon,  b.  1  Feb.,  1804;   d.  22  Dec,  1815. 

7.  Hannah,  b.  S  Feb.,  1806;  mar.  Jethro  Goodwin;  d.  5  Oct.,  1875. 

8.  Maria,  b.  17  Apr.,  1808;  mar.  William  Pindar. 

9.  Augusta,  b.  4  Aug.,  1810;  d.  31  Oct.,  1816. 

10.  Sophronia,   b.    22    Sept.,    1812;    mar.   Zenas    Sawyer;    d.    27 
Aug.,  1879. 

11.  Russell,  b.  22  Sept.,   1815;  mar.  Eunice  Hanson;  d.  20  Sept., 
1 85 1.  Issue: 

1st.      Angeline,  b.  about  1841. 

2nd.     Abbie,  b.  about  1843. 

3d.     Charles,  b.  about  1845. 

4th.     Cyrus,  b.  about  1847;  was  killed  during  the  civil  war. 

5th.     Edwin,  b.  about  1849. 

12.  Nathan  G.,  b.  14  July,  1818.     See  family  13. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Devi. 

Levi  Brackett  was  born  August  30,  1767,  in  Berwick;  baptized 
March  30.  1768;  when  past  the  age  of  twenty  years,  he  removed  to 
the  town  of  Shapleigh,  now  Acton,  where  he  dwelt  until  his  death, 
October  22,  i860;  was  a  farmer;  married  April  9,  1797,  Lydia  Hub- 
bard, born  in  May,  1772,  in  Berwick,  died  November  7,  1862.     Issue: 

1.  Asa,  b.  29  Jan.,  1799.     See  family  14. 

2.  Susan,  b.  9  Feb.,  1801;  mar.  in  1827,  Ira  Brackett.     Issue  (see 
fam.  18,  this  div.). 

.'1.     Cyrena  B.,  b.  27  Dec,  1802;  d.  7  Jan.,  1819. 

4.  Joshua,  b.   6  Jan.,    1805;  was  a  farmer;   lived  in  Acton;   d.  26 
July,  1881;  mar.  Jane  Pendleton,  b.  about  1816.     Issue: 

1st.  Elizabeth,  b.  about  1846;  mar.  Calvin  Brackett.  Issue 
(see  fam.  14,  this  div.). 

5.  Luther,  b.  9  Feb.,  1807;  d.  in  Feb.,  1816. 

6.  Levi,  b.  6  Apr.,  1809.     See  family  15. 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jotham. 

Jotham  Brackett  was  born  April  28,  1772,  in  Berwick;  was  bap- 
tized July  5,  1774;  from  shortly  prior  to  1790,  to  January  3,  1857, 
the  date  of  his  death,  dwelt  in  Acton;  was  a  farmer;  at  one  time  was 
postmaster;  married  Margaret  Dearborn,  born  May  12,  1781,  died 
December  22,  i860.     Issue: 

1.     Simon  D.,  b.  22  Dec,  1800.     See  family  16. 


SoO  BRACKETT  GENEALOGY 

FAMILY  NO.  8. 

From  Family  Xo.  i.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jonathan. 

Jonathan  Braekett  was  born  in  1779,  in  Berwick;  wras  the  young- 
est son  of  Joshua  Braekett  and  wife,  Anna  Libby;  was  in  his  child- 
hood when  his  father  removed  to  Acton;  dwelt  in  Acton  until  his 
death,  which  occurred  shortly  after  1850;  after  his  wife's  death  he 
lived  with  his  son  Ira;  was  a  farmer;  married  July  3,  1800,  in  Leba- 
non, Me.,  Sally  Jones,  who  died  before  1850.     Issue: 

1.  John,  b.  about  1800.     See  family  17. 

2.  Ira,  b.  28  Apr.,  1802.     See  family  18. 

3.  Mark,  b.  about  1804.     See  family  18  A. 

4.  Hannah,  is  dec;  mar.  Quimby. 

5.  James,   never  mar.;  is  dec. 

6.  Jonathan,   never  mar.;  is  dec. 

7.  Betsey,  is  dec;  married  Tristam  Grant. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony.  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Polly. 

Polly  Braekett  was  the  oldest  daughter  of  Joshua  and  was  born  in 
Acton  in  1786;  married  Ezra  Hutchins.  Further  knowledge  of  the 
life  of  this  person  would  not  have  been  made  known  to  the  reader, 
but  for  descendants  of  Joshua  Braekett  claiming  descent  from  him  in 
a  male  line.  The  information  written  by  these  descendants  precluded 
the  probability  of  a  mistake,  on  their  part,  of  being  his  descendants, 
and,  therefore,  inquiry  was  made  of  Mr.  George  Dana  Braekett,  of 
Acton,  a  gentleman,  who.  if  he  did  not  know  a  matter  asked  with  ref- 
erence to  the  Bracketts  of  Acton,  would  find  it  out  for  you.  Mr. 
Braekett  answered  that  he  had  talked  with  a  Mr.  Joshua  Sanborn,  a 
grandson  of  Joshua,  and  that  Mr.  Sanborn  informed  him  that  Joshua 
Braekett  never  had  a  son;  "or,"  to  use  the  language  of  Mr.  George 
D.  Braekett,  "in  other  words  that  his  mother  never  had  a  brother." 
It  is  submitted  that  this  is  pretty  direct  and  positive  testimony;  still  it 
was  not  satisfactory.  Accordingly  the  letters  of  the  alleged  descend- 
ants were  forwarded  to  Mr.  Braekett.  In  about  three  months  he 
unraveled  the  snarl.  The  marriage  of  Polly  was  an  unhappy  one: 
she  and  her  husband  Ezra,  left  Acton  and  shortly  she  returned  with  a 
son,  James  by  name,  who,  she  vowed,  should  never  be  known  by  the 
name  of  Hutchins.  And  she  made  good  her  vow;  he  was  known  by 
the  name  of  James  Braekett;  probably  he,  himself,  never  knew  the 
name  of  Hutchins.  She  with  her  son  left  Acton  when  he  was  quite 
young.  "The  people  here  don't  remember  him,"  wrote  Mr.  Braekett; 
"They  only  know  what  they  have  heard  *  *  *.  My  idea  is  that  this 
young  man's  great-grandfather  was  Ezra  Hutchins;  that  his  grand- 
father was  the  boy,  James,  whose  right  name  was  Hutchins,  but  was 
called  Braekett.  If  I  am  not  right  I  do  not  know  how  to  get  at  the 
right  of  it."     The  young  man  referred  to  gave  his  line  of  descent 


JOSHUA,    OF    ACTON  351 

from  Joshua  as  follows:  Ezra,  James,  Joshua  H.  (his  father).  The 
old  residents  knew  nothing  of  an  Ezra  Braekett  ever  having  lived  in 
the  town;  so  the  statement  that  there  was  such  person  who  was  a  son 
of  Joshua,  has  little  to  rest  upon.  Hutchins  was  a  tin  peddler;  he  fell 
dead  off  his  cart,  from  apoplexy.  Polly,  or  properly  Mary  Braekett. 
was  a  person  of  force  of  character  and  determination,  and  in  our  day 
would  be  called  strenuous.  What  she  willed  to  do  she  did.  The 
census  of  1850  shows  that  she  was  living  in  Acton,  a  member  of  her 
father's  family.  She  died  before  i860.  Issue: 
1.     James,  b.  about  1807.     See  family  19. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family  No.  3.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jacob,  Rufus  W. 
Rufus  \V.  Braekett  was  born  in  Acton,  Me.,  April  1,  1798; 
always  lived  in  Acton;  was  a  farmer;  was  town  clerk  in  1832,  1833; 
selectman  from  1850  to  1854,  and  representative  in  the  legislature  in 
1841;  died  June  25,  1871.  Married  December  28,  1837,  Mariam  L. 
Hussey,  born  July  22,  1817,  died  September  6,  1869,  daughter  of 
Richard  and  wife,  Alice  Thompson.     Issue: 

1.  John  F.,  b.  17  Aug.,  1839;   unmar. 

2.  George  D.,  b.  28  June,  1845.     See  family  20. 

3.  Clara  E.,  b.  4  Sept..  1850;  mar.  3  Jan.,  1870,  John  F.  Edge- 
comb,  farmer,  b.  3  May,  1844,  son  of  John  and  wife,  Jane  L.  Furlong, 
of  Hollis,  Me.;   home,  in  Acton.     Issue: 

1st.  Charles  R.,  b.  21  Apr.,  1871;  mar.  28  Oct.,  1899,  Rose  N. 
Stevens;   home,  in  Milton  Mills,  X.  H.;   have  child,  Clara  P. 

2nd.  Hattie  A.,  b.  19  Apr.,  1872;  mar.  4  June,  1896,  Harvey 
F.  Winchell;  home,  in  .South  Acton;  children  are  Dana  P.;  Nelson  F. 

4.  Charles  C.  b.  28  Sept.,  1852;  d.  28  July,  1884;  mar.  Elizabeth 
Furlong.     No  issue. 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From  Family  No.  3.      Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jacob,  Jacob. 

Jacob  Braekett  was  born  December  26,  1820,  in  Acton,  Me., 
where  he  resided  all  his  life;  married  October  8,  1848,  Abigail  P. 
Swansey,  who  died  April  3,  185.S;  married  (2nd)  June  7,  1859,  Belinda 
B.  Folsom.     Issue: 

1.  Elmer  Hand,  resides  in  Canton,  Mass. 

2.  Lillian  M..   resides  in  Maiden,  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Benjamin,  Benjamin. 

Benjamin  Braekett  was  born  September  29,  1813,  in  Acton,  in 
which  town  he  resided  until  his  death,  January  21,  1894;  a  farmer;  was 
selectman  in  1849;  married  December  20,  1835,  Elinor  Chamberlain, 
born  October  26,  1813,  died  April  15,  1883,  daughter  of  Josiah  and 
wife,  Bethiah  Lowell.     Issue: 


352  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.     Hannah  B.,  b.  26  Oct.,  1836;  mar.  14  Dec,  1867,  John  C.  Buck, 
b.  21  Nov.,  1826,  d.  30  June,  1896,  son  of  Dr.  Reuben  and  wife,  Alice 
Jacqueth;  home,  in  Milton  Mills,   N.   H.     Mrs.   Buck  supplied  data 
relative  to  the  descendants  of  her  grandfather,  Benjamin  Brackett,  and 
to  the  descendants  of  several  of  his  brothers.     Issue: 
1st.     Herbert  H..  b.  31  Oct.,  1868. 
2nd.     Ella  B.,  b.  19  Aug.,  1870. 
3d.     Horatio,  b.  6  July,  1873. 

4th.     Herman  L..  b.  11  July,  1875;  mar.  Grace  H.  Brackett  (see 
family  20,  this  division  ) . 

5th.     J.  Mott,  b.  17  Nov.,  1878. 
-.     Charles,  b.  20  Apr.,  1838;   never  mar.;  d.  26  Sept.,  1896. 
3.     Ella,  b.  3  Jan.,  1852;  d.  18  Jan.,  1869. 


FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Simeon,  Nathan  G. 

Nathan  G.  Brackett  was  born  July  14,  18 18,  in  Acton;  about 
1850  removed  to  Dexter,  Me.,  where  he  has  since  resided;  for  many 
years  was  overseer  in  a  woolen  mill;  later  was  a  farmer;  now  (1903) 
retired;  married  July  7,  1844,  Mary  E.  Towle,  born  January  4,  1S24, 
daughter  of  Joel  Bean  Towle  and  wife,  Lois  Roberts.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Viola,  b.  13  Mar.,  1847;   mar.  23  Feb.,  1864,  Thomas  H. 
Pierce,  lawyer,  son  of  Storer  and  wife,  Charlotte  Buzzel.     Issue: 

1st.     Eddie  Brackett,  b.  18  Mar.,  1869. 

2nd.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  12  Aug.,  1871;  mar.  16  Mar.,  1892, 
Harris  L.  Tillson,  sou  of  Isaac  and  wife,  Ellen  Drake;  home,  in  Dex- 
ter.     Issue: 

I.      Rufus,  b.  18  May,  1895. 

2.  John  Russell,  b.  8  Aug.,  1854;  d.  25  Jan.,  1863. 

3.  Fannie,    b.    21    May,    1857;     mar.    1    Dec,    1883,    Lyman   R. 
Damon,  son  of  Frederick  A.  and  wile,  Charitv  Farrow.      No  issue. 


FAMILY     NO.     14. 

From  Family  No.  6.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Levi,  Asa. 

Asa  Brackett  was  born  January  29,  1799,  in  Acton;  resided  in 
South  Acton  where  he  died  September  13,  1882;  was  selectman  from 
1832-40,  and  town  representative  in  legislature  1838,  1839.  Married 
July  26,  1840,  Elizabeth  Olive  Hubbard,  born  April  17,  1822,  died 
September  10,  1877.     Issue: 

1.  Calvin  H.,   b.  30  Oct.,    1842;  mar.    28   Sept..    1867,   Elizabeth 
Brackett,  b.  about  1846  (see  fam.  6,  this  div.).     Issue: 

1st.     Hallis  Eugene,  b.  8  Nov.,  1872. 
2nd.      Stella  M.,  b.  20  Mar.,  1880. 

2.  Abby  Jane,   b.   24  May,    1841;  mar.   24  Apr.,   1858,   M.   B.   F. 
Dalton;   d.  8  Aug.,  1862.      Issue: 

1st.     Carrie  A.,  b.  15  July,  1859. 
2nd.     Clarence  J.,  b.  23  Nov.,  1861. 


JOSHUA,    OF    ACTON  353 

3.  Lydia  Ann,  b.  8  Mar.,  1846;  mar.  27  Nov.,  1863,  M.  B.  F. 
Dalton.     Issue: 

1st.     William  Edwin,  b.  10  Jan.,  1872. 
2nd.     Linnie  Gertrude,  b.  15  Sept.,  1874. 
3d.     Lula  Olivia,  b.  8  June,  1879. 

4.  Asa  Jefferson,  b.  29  Apr.,  1848;  mar.  15  Nov.,  1879,  Janette 
Hubbard.     Issue: 

1st.     Mareia  Ella,  b.  4  Sept.,  1873. 
2nd.     Grace  Ethel,  b.  9  May,  1877. 

5.  Aaron  H.,  b.  8  May,  1852.     See  family  21. 

FAMILY  NO.  15. 
From  Family  No.  6.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Levi,  Levi. 
Levi  Brackett  was  born  April  6,  1809,  in  Acton;  when  a  young 
man  he  went  to  Gloucester,  Mass.,  which  city  he  made  his  home; 
there  married  Elizabeth  A.  Brown,  who  died  October  17,  1893;  was  a 
miller;  died  December  26,  1890.     Issue: 

1.  Levi,  who  died  in  Andersonville,  Ga.,  during  the  civil  war. 

2.  Asa,   resided  in  Gloucester;   mar.  Betsey  D ;  he  d.  26  Mar., 

1900.     Issue: 

1st.      Herman,  b.  8  Aug.,  1885. 

2nd.     George  Elmer,  b.  ;   resides  in  Boston. 

FAMILY    NO.    16. 

From  Family  No.  7.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jotham,  Simon  D. 

Simon  Dearborn  Brackett  was  born  December  22,  1800,  in  Acton; 
died  in  i860;  was  a  farmer;  married  Sarah  Brackett,  born  about  1801, 
daughter  of  Moses  Brackett  (see  div.  8,  fam.  6).     Issue: 

1.  Pauline,  mar.  George  Brown;   d.  in  May.  1886. 

2.  Elizabeth,  b.  1  Jan.,  1826;   d.  3  Aug.,  1831. 
.'!.     Mary  A.,  1).  29  Nov.,  1827;  d.  29  July,  1831. 

4.  Sarah,  b.  6  June,  1829;  d.  11  June,  1833. 

5.  Experience,  b.  in  1832;   mar.  Isaac  Glidden;   d.  in  Aug.,  1887. 

6.  John.  b.  28  Feb.,  1833;  d.  7  July,  1833. 

7.  Mary  E.,  b.   13  June,  1834;   d.  7  Dec,  1838. 

8.  Moses  D.,  b.  3  Mar.,  1837.     See  family  22. 

9.  Phoeba  Ann,  b.  in  1839;  mar.  Dodge. 

10.  Cyrus,  b.  9  Sept.,  1842;  was  a  soldier  in  the  civil  war;  d.  in 
Port  Royal,  Md.,  23  May,  1862;  served  in  co.  K.,  New  Hampshire 
battalion,  New  England  vol.  cav. 

11.  Sarah,  b.  in  1843,  mar.  William  Major;   d.  in  Nov.,  1885. 

FAMILY    NO.    17. 
From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jonathan,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  about  1800,  in  Acton;  was  a  farmer; 
removed  to  Athens,  Me.;  married  L,ois  Richer.     Issue: 

1.  William,  who  d.  about  1834. 

2.  Mary. 

3.  John.  b.  about  1838.     See  family  23. 


354  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jonathan,  Ira. 

Ira  Brackett  was  born  April  28,  1802,  in  Acton;  was  a  farmer; 
always  resided  in  Acton;  died  September  24,  1877;  married  about  1827, 
Susan  Brackett,  born  February  9,  1801,  died  October  21,  1872,  daugh- 
ter of  Levi  Brackett  (see  fam.  6,  this  div.).     Issue: 

1.  Luther,  b.  28  Nov.,  1828.     See  family  24. 

2.  Susan  Abby,  b.  9  Aug.,  1830;  d.  in  Apr.,  1861. 

3.  Ira  F.,  b.  17  Dec,  1832-;  mar.  in  Oct.,  1854,  Abby  Bradford; 
d.  in  June,  1866.     Issue: 

1st.     Flora  Belle,  who  mar.  Simpson;  home,  in  Berwick. 

4.  Levi  H.,  b.  12  Mar.,  1839.      See  family  25. 

FAMILY    NO.    18  A. 

From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jonathan,  Mark. 

Mark  Brackett  was  born  about  1804;  but  little  has  been  learned 
with  certainty  concerning  him;  he  perhaps  was  a  farmer  and  resided 
in  Acton;  probably  died  before  i860;  married  Ann  Grant  who  was 
born  in  1810;  she  was  living  (1906)  in  Manchester,  N.  H.  Letters 
addressed  to  her  on  the  subject  of  the  family  history  elicited  no  replies. 
Issue,  as  shown  by  census  of  1850: 

1.  Kzinah,  1).  about  1832;  a  shoemaker. 

2.  Eliza,  b.  about  1833. 

3.  Charles  W.,  b.  22  Mar.,  1836.     See  family  26. 

4.  John,  b.  about  1838;  in  i860,  was  a  shoemaker  in  Acton;  a  sol- 
dier in  the  civil  war;  served  in  co.  F.,  8th  Me.  vol.  inf.,  enlisted  5 
Oct.,  1861,  dis.  21  Jan.,  1862. 

5.  George  W.,  b.  about  1841;  shoemaker  in  Acton  in  i860;  served 
in  co.  F.,  8th  Me.  vol.  inf.,  enlisted  7   Sept.,   1861,  dis.  in  1864. 

6.  Martha,  b.  about  1844. 

7.  Frances  E.,  b.  about  1845;  is  dec. 

8.  Julietta  A.,  b.  about  1849. 


NINTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From  Family  No.  9.       Descent:      Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Polly,  James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  about  1807.  In  1850,  he  was  a  resident 
of  St.  George  in  Lincoln  county;  was  a  farmer;  died  in  1886.  Mar- 
ried Rebecca ,  born   in    1815,  probably  died   before    1880.     The 

census  of  1880  shows  a  James  Brackett  living  in  the  town  of  Rockland, 
Knox  county,    a   widower,    age   seventy-three,    occupation,   peddler; 
lather  born  in  New  Hampshire  and  mother  born  in  Maine.     Issue: 
1.     Marian,  1).  about  1836. 


JOSHUA,    OF    ACTON  355 

2.  Joshua  Henry,  b.  20  May,  1838,  in  St.  George;  removed  to 
Hartford,  Conn.,  thence  in  1883,  to  Worcester,  Mass.;  is  a  tinsmith; 
mar.  7  Dec,  1873,  Ann  Garrity,  b.  20  Apr.,  1843,  d.  21  Mar.,  1896, 
dau.  of  David  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Smith,  of  Hartford.     Issue: 

1st.     John  James,  b.  1  Sept.,  1878;  mattress-maker. 
2nd.     Thomas  Henry,  b.  23  Apr.,  1877. 

3.  George,  b.  about  1843. 

4.  Abigail,  b.  about  1845. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From  Family  No.   10.     Descent:      Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  Jacob,  Rufus  W.,  George  D. 

George  Dana  Brackett  was  born  June  28,  1845,  in  Acton,  in  which 
town  he  now  resides;  is  a  contractor  and  builder.  Supplied  data  rela- 
tive to  the  descendants  of  his  grandfather  and  otherwise  materially 
aided  in  compiling  this  history:  married  October  14,  1871,  Annette 
Titcomb,  born  May  11.  1844,  daughter  of  Oliver  and  wife,  Hannah 
Wentworth.     Issue: 

1.  Arthur  D.,  b.  30  July,  1874,  in  Boston;  business  is  plumbing 
specialties;   resides  in  Boston. 

2.  Grace  H.,  b.  13  Dec,  1881;  mar.  4  Sept.,  1902,  Herman  L. 
Buck  (see  fain.  12,  this  div.). 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From  Family  No.    14.      Descent:      Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  Levi.  Asa,  Aaron  H. 

Aaron  Hubbard  Brackett  was  born  May  8,  1852,  in  Acton;  is  a  resi- 
dent of  Kitterv,  Me.,  and  is  employed  as  a  messenger  in  the  Depart- 
ment of  the  Navy;  married  June  27,  1876,  Phebe  Bodwell,  born  June 
27,  1850,  died  January  20,  1891,  daughter  of  Enoch  and  wife,  Sarah 
J.  Garvin,  of  Shapleigh,  Me.:  married  (2nd)  January  20,  1892, 
Eldora  Webber,  daughter  of  William  G.  and  wife,  Lucy  Garvin, 
sister  of  Sarah.     Issue: 

1.     Mabel,  b.  1  Feb..  1S83. 

Raymond  Webber,  b.  23  Feb.,  1894. 

Russell  A.,  b.  13  July,  1896. 


o 


FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From  Family  No.   16.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,   Samuel,    Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  Jotham,  Simon  D.,  Moses  D. 

Moses  Dearborn  Brackett  was  born  March  3,  1837;  a  shoemaker; 
resided  in  East  Rochester,  N.  H.  Served  in  company  K,  N.  H.  Bat- 
talion, 1st  N.  E.  V.  C,  enlisted  October  12,  1861,  discharged  June  14, 
1862;  also  in  company  B,  5th  N.  H.  volunteer  infantry,  enlisted 
August  14,  1863,  discharged  June  8,  1865;  is  deceased.  Married  in 
1853,    Sarah  J.    Perkins,   born  in    1835,    died  in    1878,    daughter   of 

Stephen    and  wife,    Fydia  ;     married     (2nd)    August   14,    1879, 

Sarah  W.Wiggin,  born  May  23,  1848,  daughter  of  Hanson  and  wife, 
Judith  Peirce.     Issue: 

1.     Frank  L-,   b.  12  May,  1858;   mar.  Elizabeth  Quinlan;  home,  in 
Dover,  N.  H.     Issue: 


356  BRACKET?     GENEALOGY 

1-4.     Gracie  S. 
2nd.     Blanche  F. 

2.      John  C.,  b.   is  Jan.,  i860;   mar.  Annie  Breen;   home,  in  Milton, 

X.   II." 
:;.     Shirley,  b.  6  Jan.,  1880. 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From   Family  No.    17.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  Jonathan,  John,  John. 

I«.hn  Brackett  was  born  about  1838  in  Athens,  Me.,  died  May  20, 
[888;  lived  in  Harmony,  later  in  Hartland,  Me.;  was  a  farmer;  mar- 
ried, about  [861,  Jane  Labree,  daughter  of  James 'and  wife,  Hannah 
Worthen,  oi  Hartland.     Issue: 

1.  I.erov  \\\,  b.  7  Mar.,  1863;  is  a  blacksmith  and  carriage-maker 
in  Hartland;  mar.  Aug.  20,  1.889,  Lura  M.  Daggett,  b.  in  1874,  dau. 
oi  George  and  wile,  Philo  S.  Uttlefield,  of  Athens,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Edna  L..  b.  15  June,  1891. 
2nd.     Harry  E.,  b.  21  Apr.,  1897. 

2.  Mary  K.,  b.  in  Oct.,  1865;  mar.  F.  N.  Joaquin;  home,  in 
Athens,  Me.      Issue:     Frank  and-Mertie. 

:;.  Jennie  B.,  b.  29  Jan.,  1867;  mar.  Alphonsa  Wilson;  home,  in 
Canaan.  Me.      Issue: 

1st.      Edgar,  b.  28  Apr.,  1887. 
2nd.      Clarence,  b.  19  Nov.,  1889. 
3d.      Alton,  1).  18  May,  1898. 
4.      Flora  II.,  1).   11  Apr.,   1877;   mar.  Thomas  Hart  well;  home,  in 
Hartland.     Issue: 

1st.      Clarence,  b.  22  June,  1894. 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 

From  Family  No.   18.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel. Joshua,  Jonathan,  Ira,  Luther. 

Luther  Brackett  was  born  November  28,  1828,  in  Acton;  died 
February  1,  1903,  in  Dover,  N.  H.;  resided  in  Colebrook,  Goffstown, 
and  Dover,  N.  II.,  in  Sanford,  Me.,  and  Medford,  Mass.;  was  engaged 
in  several  lines,  farming,  lumbering  and  as  stone  mason.  He  took 
great  interest  in  the  family  history  and  had  good  information  relative 
to  the  Bracketts  who  lived  in  Acton.  In  1850,  there  were  eleven  fam- 
ilies in  the  town  whose  ancestry  he  knew  quite  well.  At  the  time  he 
was  corresponding  with  the  writer  he  was  living  in  Dover;  married 
November  2s,   [855,  Emily  J.  Goodwin,  daughter  of  Samuel.     Issue: 

1.  Kffie  Frances,  b.  6  Oct.,  1856;  mar.  30  Sept.,  1880,  F.  M. 
Gupliff;   d.  to  Aug.,  1886.     Issue: 

1st.     Ethel  Flanders;  home,  in  Manchester,  N.  H. 

2.  Carrie  Emma,  b.  1  Feb.,  1858;  mar.  in  Apr.,  1877,  J.  W.  Ford; 
home,  in  Dover. 

.';.      Frank  K.,  1>.  14  Aug.,  1859.     See  family  27. 

I.  Mary  Susan,  b.  27  May,  1861;  mar.  in  1878,  Alphonso  Caswell; 
home,  in  Dover,  N.  H. 

5.  Nellie  Alma,  b.  26  Mar.,  1863;  mar.  9  June,  1879,  G.  W. 
Smith;   home,  in  Dover. 


JOSHUA,    OF    ACTON  357 

6.  Ezra  Goodwin,   b.  9  Apr.,    1865;   mar.   Cora  Foote;    home,  in 
Manchester.     Issue: 

1st.     Raymond. 

7.  Levi  Irving,  b.  9  Jan.,  1867;   d.  27  Feb.,  1867. 

8.  Samuel  Whaland,  b.  1  Jan.,  1868.      See  family  28. 

9.  Levi  Wesley,  b.  19  Feb.,  1870. 

10.  Lucy  Mabel,  b.  23  Feb.,  1872. 

11.  William  Hayden,  b.  1  Nov.,  1873;  d.  12  Sept.,  1874. 

12.  William  Hayden,  b.  17  July,  1875;  d.  29  July,  1876. 

13.  Helen  C,  b.  25  Nov.,  1876;  d.  28  Sept.,  1896. 

FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From  Family  No.  18.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,   Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  Jonathan,  Ira,  Levi  H. 

Levi  H.  Brackett  was  born  March  12,  1839,  in  Acton;  died 
March  22,  1889;  married  July  15,  1867,  Anna  Gardner,  born  Febru- 
ary 5,  1851,  daughter  of  George  A.  and  wife,  Anna  S.  Hazeltine,  of 
Salem,  Mass.  Mr.  Brackett  was  a  farmer;  owned  the  farm  which 
was  his  father's.      Issue: 

1.  George  A.,  1).   17  Now,  1868;   resides  in  Springvale,  Me. 

2.  Gardner  F.,  b.  30  Aug.,  1871;  d.  10  Jan.,  1874. 

3.  Fred  L.,  b.  4  May,   [873;   resides  in  Somersworth,  N.  H. 

1.  Susan  E.  M..  b.  30  Apr.,   [875;   mar.   1  May,    1S98,  John  Pills- 

bury;  home,  in  Acton  Center,  Me. 

5.  Luther  F.,  b.  15  Sept.,  1877;  resides  in  Springvale,  Me. 

6.  Irving  G.,  b.  14  July,  1S79. 

7.  Arthur  W.,  b.  10  Feb.,  1882. 

8.  Sarah  L.,  b.  12  Aug.,   [884. 

9.  Clara  A.,  b.  18  June,  1887. 


FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From  Family  No.  18  A.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  Jonathan,  Mark,  Charles. 

Charles  W.  Brackett  was  born  March  22,  1836,  in  Acton,  Me.; 
a  shoemaker  in  Acton  and  Springvale,  Me;  died  September  12,  1865; 
married  November  25,  1858,  Laura  J.  Chadbourne,  born  June  28, 
1834,  daughter  of  William  and  wife,  Susan  P.  Beal.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  W.,  b.  10  Sept.,  1859;  is  a  substantial  business  man  in 
Lynn,  Mass.,  where  he  is  favorably  known;  mar.  Ella  M.  Shorey. 

2.  Ida,  b.  23  Apr.,  1861;  mar.  9  Oct.,  1881,  Chester  W.  Hamilton, 
b.  4  Dec,  1858,  son  of  William  and  wife,  Dorcas  Hurd,  (of  Sanford), 
is  a  barber;   home,  in  Springvale.     Issue: 

1st.  C.  Grace,  b.  7  Nov.,  1884;  mar.  28  Mar.,  1906,  Charles  W. 
Crummett. 

2nd.     Bernice  A.,  b.  22  Apr.,  1890. 


BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

TENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    27. 

Prom  Family  No.  24.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,   Sam- 
uel. Joshua,  Jonathan,  Ira,  Luther,  Frank  E. 

Frank  Edwin  Brackett  was  born  August  14,  1859,  in  Medway, 
Mass.,  and  now  (1906)  resides  on  Riverside  avenue,  in  Medford, 
Mass.;  is  .1  salesman  for  lumber;  married  August  16,  1884,  Amelia 
Fawcett,  horn  March  8,  1864,  daughter  of  William  A.  (born  in 
England)  and  wife,  Jerusha  Allward,  of  Temperance  Vale,  New 
Brunswick.      Issue: 

I.      Tracy  F.,  b.   15  Aug.,  1887. 

l'.     Albert  F.,  b.  13  Apr.,  1890. 


FAMILY  NO.    28. 

From   Family  No.  24.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Samuel,  Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  Jonathan,  Ira,  Luther,  Samuel  W. 

Samuel  Whaland  Brackett  was  born  January  1,  1868,  in  South 
Alton,  Me.;  is  a  carpenter;  now  (1906)  resides  at  137  Salem  street, 
Medford.  Mass.;  served  for  three  years  in  company  A,  1st  regiment 
New  Hampshire  state  militia.  Married  December  14,  1901,  Maud  E. 
Curtis,  born  September  6,  1881,  daughter  of  Charles  E.  and  wife, 
Alvena  Burton,  of  Medford,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  Alma  I).,  1).  25  Dec,  1902. 

2.  Homer  C,  b.  26  Mar.,  1904. 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  359 


DIVISION    NO.    13. 


CAPTAIN  JOHN  BRACKETT  OF  GREENLAND 
AND  HIS   DESCENDANTS. 

FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  No.  VII.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  John. 

Captain  John  Brackett  was  born  about  1700,  in  Greenland,  N.  H.; 
during  his  entire  life  he  lived  in  said  town.  Had  lauded  interests  in 
the  adjoining  town  of  Stratham;  in  a  petition,  dated  August,  1746, 
which  he  signed,  he  is  described  as  a  freeholder  of  Stratham;  dur- 
ing the  following  year,  in  such  capacity,  he  signed  a  petition  to  the 
provincial  assembly  against  the  settlement  of  two  ministers  in  the 
town,  a  matter  that  grew  out  of  a  division  of  the  faithful  as  the  result 
of  a  religious  revival  which  was  prevalent  in  many  towns  in  New 
England,  and  from  which  sprang  the  West  societies.  The  petitioners 
were  of  the  faction  that  favored  the  old  establishment  in  religious 
matters.  Captain  Brackett  was  engaged  extensively  in  farming;  also 
followed  professional  pursuits;  his  name  appears  in  the  probate 
records  in  the  capacity  of  counsellor  at  law.  Was  active  in  militar)- 
affairs,  and  during  King  George's  war,  from  1744  to  1748,  he  held 
the  rank  of  captain;  during  a  considerable  part  of  the  war  his  com- 
mand was  in  active  sendee.  Records  of  the  provincial  assembly, 
under  date  of  October  1,  1745,  show  that  it  was  voted  to  pay  persons 
in  "Captain  Brackett's  troop"  for  their  service  in  hauling  ordnance 
stores  at  fort  William  and  Mary.  Also  that  on  August  27,  1747,  it 
was  voted  to  pay  one  Thomas  Parker,  for  house  rent  for  the  year 
1746,  and  fifteen  shillings  for  carrying  the  governor's  orders  to 
"Captain  John  Brackett"  and  to  other  captains. 

The  following  is  a  report  made  by  the  captain  which  explains 
itself:— 

"Greenland  Sept.  30,  1745.  By  his  Excellency,  Mr.  Benning 
Wentworth's  order,  I  prest  20  men  that  belonged  to  my  troop  to 
onlode  the  storeship,  but  there  was  but  18  went,  and  they  say  they 
did  three  days  work.  John  Brackett  Capt." 

The  farm,  which  Captain  Brackett  inherited  from  his  father,  is 
still  owned  by  his  descendants;  has  been  uninterruptedly  owned  by 
Bracketts,  passing  from  father  to  son  since  it  was  acquired  by  Joshua 
Brackett  prior  to  1725.  This  farm  Captain  John  gave  to  his  son. 
Esquire  George  Brackett  of  local  fame.  To  his  son  Benning,  he 
gave  the  farm  in  Stratham,  another  farm  in  New  Market,  and  a  one- 
half  interest  in  the  sawmill  at  Wadleigh's  falls.  Another  son  was 
Dr.  Joshua  Brackett,  one  of  the  most  eminent  men  in  the  province, 
who  attained  distinction  both  in  his  profession  and  as  a  patriot.  Of 
his  other  four  sons  little  is  known;  Daniel  and  Samuel  died  unmar- 
ried in  the  lifetime  of  their  father,  probably  in  infancy;   Thomas  died 


MAP   OF   GREENLAND   AND   RYE 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  361 

at  the  age  of  thirty-six,  in  the  year  1753,  possessed  of  an  estate  of 
several  thousand  dollars;  John  died  unmarried,  in  1S00,  lived  with 
his  brother  George,  on  the  homestead. 

His  son  Benning  was  probably  named  for  Governor  Benning 
Wentworth,  with  whom  Captain  John  Braekett  was  intimately  asso- 
ciated. Captain  Braekett,  in  his  day,  was  one  of  the  most  prominent 
men  in  the  province;  his  position  as  commander  of  a  troop,  which 
was  intrusted  with  the  occupation  of  one  of  the  principal  forts  in  the 
province  during  a  time  of  war,  attests  his  capacity  and  standing  as  a 
military  man.  By  marriage  he  became  connected  with  a  family  of 
respectability  and  influence.  His  wife  was  Eliza  Pickering;  to  her 
he  was  married  December  10,  1724.  She  was  of  Greenland,  was 
daughter  of  Thomas,  son  of  John,  the  immigrant,  one  of  the  signers 
with  Anthony  Braekett,  of  the  deed  of  land  for  a  glebe.  Captain 
Braekett  died  January  20,  1759,  as  shown  by  his  tombstone  in  the 
old  Braekett  burial  ground  on  the  estate  of  the  late  George  Braekett, 
Esq.  His  widow,  born  in  1700,  died  February  7,  1762,  married  Jan- 
uary 3,  1760,  Rev.  Mr.  Joseph  Adams,  of  Newington,  N.  H.  For 
several  years  Rev.  Mr.  Adams  had  a  charge  in  Stratham,  was  the 
orthodox  minister  of  the  town  at  the  time  of  the  religious  excitement 
in  1746;  among  his  supporters  in  the  contest  was  Captain  John 
Braekett.      issue: 

1.  Thomas,  baptized  in  1727;  mar.  Mar}*  Robinson;  d.  12  July, 
1753;   owned  a  hue  property  in  Greenland  and  Stratham.      Issue: 

1st.  Mary,  who  mar.  29  Jan.,  1774,  Capt.  Andrew  Wiggin,  Jr., 
of  Stratham.     Issue: 

I.     Poll}',  b.  9  Oct.,  17S0;  mar.  George  Hilton,  of  New  Market. 

2.  Samuel,   not  named  in  will;  probably  died  in  infancy. 

.'!.  Joshua,  b.  9  May,  T732;  entered  Harvard  college  in  1748,  and 
was  graduated  in  1732.  Prepared  for  the  ministry,  but  preached 
only  a  short  time;  was  a  Universalist.  Studied  medicine  in  Ports- 
mouth, under  Dr.  Clement  Jackson;  practiced  in  Portsmouth,  where 
he  always  resided.  Appointed  judge  of  the  court  of  admiralty  of  the 
province  of  New  Hampshire,  and  took  the  oath  of  office  on  4  July, 
1776,  on  which  day  his  brother-in-law,  General  William  Whipple, 
signed  the  Declaration  of  Independence  as  one  of  the  delegates  from 
the  province.  He  held  the  office  continuously  until  1789,  when  the 
duties  were  assumed  by  a  federal  judge.  He  was  elected  30  Oct., 
1783,  an  honorary  member  of  the  Massachusetts  Medical  society,  and 
in  1791,  was  conferred  upon  him  the  degree  of  doctor  of  medicine,  by 
Harvard.  Was  a  zealous  promoter  of  the  New  Hampshire  Medical 
society,  incorporated  16  Feb.,  1791,  and  is  named  in  the  act  as  a 
member;  was  elected  first  vice  president,  and  elected  president  in 
1793,  which  position  he  held  until  1799;  presented  the  society  with  a 
collection  of  medical  works  as  the  foundation  of  a  library.  For  near- 
ly 3°  years  before  his  decease  he  used  his  influence  to  have  a  profes- 
sorship of  natural  history  and  botany  established  in  Harvard,  and 
donated  $1,500  to  the  college  for  that  purpose.  He  d.  17  July, 
1802.  Mar.  14  Apr.,  1760,  Hannah  Whipple,  b.  15  Feb.,  1734,  dau. 
of  Captain  William  and  wife,  Mary  Cutts,  of  Kittery.     No  issue. 

The  remains  of  Dr.  Braekett  and  his  wife  are  in  the  old  North 
burying  ground  of  Portsmouth,  N.  H.  On  a  stone  at  the  tomb  is 
inscribed: 


:;«;:.'  brackett   genealogy 

"Here  rest  the  Remains 

of 
Doctor  Joshua  Brackett 
late  President 
of  the  New  Hampshire  Medical  Society. 
In  the  full  belief  of  the  restoration  of  all  things 
he  calmly  resigned  his  breath 
July  17  A.  D.    1802, 
in  the  69th  Year  of  his  age. 
Appointed  by  the  State  of  New  Hampshire,  Judge  of  the  Maritime 
Court,  the  time  she  assumed  her  Soverign  rights;  he  Sustained 
the  office    with  honor  and   integrity  Until  the  adoption  of  the 
Federal  Compact 

He  was  in  judgment,  sound; 
in  friendship,  firm; 
in  sentiment,  liberal 
and  in  benevolence,  unbounded." 
Beside  the  tomb  of  Dr.   Brackett  is  the  tomb  of  his  wife,  and  on 
the  stone  is  inscribed  in  addition  to  her  name  and  dates  of  her  birth 
and  death,  the  following: — 

"A  pious  cheerful  rational  Christian 

possessing  an  active  and  intelligent  mind; 

much  of  her  time  was  employed 

in  literary  pursuits; 

and  her  acquirments  were  manifested 

with  that  female  diffidence 
which  made  her  conversation  pleasing 
to  men  of  science." 
The  tombs  are  single,  are  made  of  granite  well  cut  for  the  time, 
in  size,  3x3x6  feet,  covered  with  marble  slabs,  and  in  good  state  of 
preservation. 

4.  John,  b.  in  1734;  never  mar.;  lived  with  his  brother,  George, 
on  homestead;  d.  30  Jan.,  1800. 

5.  George,  b.  22  Aug.,  1737.     See  family  2. 

6.  Mary,  b.  14  Maj',  1739;  mar.  31  Jan.,  1759,  Joshua  Pickering, 

son  of  Joshua;    mar.    (2nd)  Johnson.     Issue:     George;   Man-; 

Harvey;    and  Elizabeth  Pickering;!  Joshua;     Sarah;    Brackett;    and 
James  Johnson.  \ 

7.  Elizabeth,  b.  27  Dec,  1740;  mar.  Samuel  Pickering,  son  of 
Joshua,  b.  1732,  in  Newington,  N.  H.,  d.  15  Feb.,  1797:,.  she  d. 
6  Dec,  1832.     Issue: 

1st.  Mary,  b.  in  1761;  mar.  Elijah  Marston,  b.  in  1757,  d.  in 
1839;   she  d.  in  1853. 

2nd.  Joshua,  who  mar.  Polly  Doe;  had  Clarissa,  and  Augustus, 
a  painter  of  portraits;  was  drowned  in  lake  Erie. 

3d.     Elizabeth,  mar.  John  Pingree;  had  Elizabeth;  Joe;  Thomas. 

4th.     Benning,  who  mar.  McClish,  of  Newport,  R.  I. 

5th.  Sarah,  b.  31  Jan.,  1773;  d.  16  Nov.,  1866;  mar.  Benjamin 
Dearborn.  Children:  Mary,  mar.  Daniel  Veasy;  Elizabeth,  mar. 
Towle;  Sarah  S.,  mar.  Sylvester  Parsons;  Abigail,  mar.  Usher  Par- 
sons;  Devi;   Samuel;  Charles,  mar.  Susan  Marsten;   Benjamin. 

8.  Ann,   not  mentioned  in  will;  probably  d.  in  infancy. 

9.  ■    Daniel,  b.  in  1743;  d.  at  age  of  ten  months. 

10.  Benning,  b.  24  Mar.,  1745.     See  family  3. 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  363 

SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family   Xo.   i.      Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  John. 
George. 

George  Brackett,  born  August  22,  1737,  in  Greenland,  N.  H., 
commonly  known  as  Squire  George,  was  one  of  the  eccentric  and 
public-spirited  men  whose  memory  is  perpetuated  in  song  and  story. 
Of  his  sayings  and  doings  the  poet  sings  and  the  historian  writes,  in 
our  da}r.  It  is  a  pleasurable  task  to  bespeak  the  praise  which  has 
been  his,  from  those  who  knew  him  well. 

He  inherited  his  father's  farm,  which  fronted  on  the  bay  and 
adjoined,  on  the  west,  the  farm  of  his  uncle.  Deacon  James,  the 
Peacemaker. 

"We  now  will  go  on  our  way, 
And  ere  we  reach  the  Stratham  Lane,  toward  the  Bay, 

And  down  the  road,  and  now  some  time  a  public  way, 

***** 

Time  presses  to  move  along.     Now  here  we  find 

The  Thomas  Brackett,  son  of  George,  the  elder,  mind. 

This  long  low  house,  with  lands  around,  was  once  a  part 

Of  the  ancestral  acres,  dear  unto  his  heart." 
Both  men,  the  squire  and  his  uncle,  were  pillars  of  the  Congre- 
gational church  in  Greenland.  One  of  the  many  gifts  of  Squire 
George,  for  public  purposes,  he  made  in  1813,  to  the  society  for  Pro- 
moting Christian  Knowledge:  it  was  $5,000,  on  the  condition  that 
the  society  was  to  pay  annually  S200  to  the  pastor  of  the  Congrega- 
tional church  in  Greenland. 

Ingrafted  upon  his  religion  was  a  deal  of  superstition,  as  fre- 
quently was  the  case  in  his  day,  with  most  people  of  all  classes; 
their  unseen  worlds  were  populated  with  a  variety  of  good  and  bad 
spirits,  of  whom  the  bad  were  ever  on  the  rampage.  One  dark  night, 
in  his  one-horse  shay,  to  which  washitched  old  "Star-of- the- Buttons," 
he  was  driving  from  his  farm  to  the  inn  of  Brackett  Weeks,  for  a 
package.  A  neighbor,  Thomas  Greaves,  was  traveling  on  the  road 
and  carrying  a  lantern;  hearing  a  vehicle  coming  behind  him, 
Greaves  stepped  to  the  side  of  the  road  to  let  it  pass,  and  closed  the 
lantern  so  as  not  to  frighten  the  horse;  after  the  squire  had  driven 
past  hinr  Greaves  stepped  into  the  road  and  opened  the  lantern.  Its 
light  first  made  known  the  presence  there  of  some  being  to  the  squire, 
who  at  once,  in  his  mind,  conjured  up  his  particular  prince  of  dark- 
ness, whose  fiery  breath  and  flashing  eyes  were  emitting  light  to  aid 
him  on  that  dark  night,  solely  for  a  sinister  purpose.  To  be 
beguiled  for  a  moment  would  result  in  the  broiling  of  his  soul  forever 
in  said  prince's  lake  of  brimstone.  Hence,  in  no  quaking  voice  he 
exclaimed,  "Depart!  Satan,  depart!!  retire!  Satan,  retire!!  I  have  no 
need  of  thee!!" 

However,  "Star-of-the-Buttons"  for  a  race  was  of  the  whip-and- 
spur  order,  was  but  a  slow  roadster  at  command  of  voice;  he  did  not 
partake  of  his  driver's  fright,  so  jogged  along  as  slowly  as  he  would 
had  his  driver  been  talking  to  Mr.  Greaves  instead  of  to  his  devil, — 
and  Mr.  Greaves  made  known  himself. 


364  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

For  portraying  the  contrast  in  this  man's  traits  of  mind,  it  is 
proper  to  next  record  of  him  that  in  making  a  gift  of  the  sum  of 
$2,000  for  the  founding  of  an  academy  in  Greenland,  he  closed  the 
instrument  of  conveyance  with  these  words: — 

"Though  goodness  without  knowledge  is  weak  and  feeble,  yet 
knowledge  without  goodness  is  dangerous;  and  both  together  form 
the  noblest  character  and  lay  the  sure  foundation  to  useful  mankind." 

Surely  satan  and  that  which  exists  not  unless  there  is  a  satan, 
will  retire,  depart  forever  from  the  minds  of  men  who  have  goodness 
and  knowledge  inculcated  in  them.  Perhaps  the  lantern's  light  on 
that  dark  night  had  its  mission,  A  satan,  knowledge  and  goodness 
have  no  common  abiding  place. 

At  an  earlier  date  he  had  given  $5,000  towards  the  founding  of 
an  academy  in  Hampton,  N.  H.  There  was  expectation  on  the 
part  of  the  people  of  Hampton  who  were  interested  in  the  academy, 
that  on  his  death  the  squire  would  further  endow  the  institution  in 
"a  sum  so  large"  wrote  a  Hampton  historian,  "as  to  place  it  in  a 
flourishing  condition.  Whatever  his  intentions,  no  provision  was 
contained  in  the  will  for  its  benefit.  The  gift  was  to  be  made  through 
a  Mr.  Abbott,  its  agent,  who  had  conflicting  interests  at  heart,  even 
the  establishment  of  a  similar  institution  at  Greenland,  and  to  his 
persuasions  Mr.  Brackett  yielded." 

Thus  is  accounted  for  the  origin  of  the  Brackett  academy  in 
Greenland,  an  institution  which  ceased  to  exist  long  since.  There 
was  litigation  between  the  trustees  of  the  two  academies;  those  of  the 
one  in  Hampton  brought  action  to  convey  in  some  unknown  legal 
way  to  its  coffers,  the  amount  of  the  donation  made  by  Mr.  Brackett 
to  found  the  academy  in  Greenland. 

The  Reverend  Mr.  Ephraim  Abbott  was  a  pedagogue  of  Green- 
land, had  wielded  the  birch  in  that  town  for  many  years;  was  also  in 
some  capacity  connected  with  the  academy  in  Hampton;  hence,  his 
conflicting  interests.  The  following  is  the  story  as  told  in  rhyme 
by  the  Greenland  poet: 

"And  Parson  Abbott  preached  this  day  I  went  to  church, 

And  though  he  preached  the  gospel,  still,  the  birch 

Was  yet  considered  good  and  quite  the  proper  thing 

To  make  the  lazy  and  unwilling  birds  to  sing. 

For  then  all  held   'To  spare  the  rod  you  spoiled  the  child.'  ' 

In  the  day  of  this  good  parson,  if  the  rod  were  spared,  it  was  not 
because  such  course  was  thought  the  better  one,  but  was  spared  from 
some  motive  of  prudence,  as  the  poverty  of  Dr.  Syntax  is  an  instance, 
thus  told: — 

"E'en  birch,  the  pedant  master's  boast. 
Was  so  increas'd  in  worth  and  cost, 
That  oft  prudentially  beguil'd 
To  save  the  rod  he  spare'd  the  child." 

As  Parson  Ephraim  lived  in  a  land  of  birch,  wrhere  tough  withes 
could  be  had  for  the  cutting,  by  their  application: — 

*     *     he  left  his  mark.     He's  with  the  flock  he  fed; 
Has  gone  to  his  reward,  is  living  although  dead. 
He  fostered  learning;  urged  upon  the  town  to  build 
The  old  academy.     The  teacher's  chair  he  filled 
With  much  success. 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  365 

But  wherefrom  came  the  funds  this  classic  hall  to  build? 

He  found  a  man;  secured  a  sum  that  nearly  killed 

The  son  and  heir  of  this  George  Brackett,  rich  in  land 

And  money 

These  men  'the  tees  without  a  trust'  were  paid 

Two  thousand  dollars,  and  incorporation  made. 

The  name's  in  honor  of  George  Brackett.     By  the  way 

He  lived  where  his  great-grandson  lives  to-day. 

A  lovely  charming  spot,  up  by  the  Greenland  Bay." 
One  of  the  accounts  of  the  manner  in  which  the  gift  was  made  is 
that  shortly  before  his  death,  and  evidenced  by  a  writing,  Esquire 
George  conveyed  to  Stephen  Pickering  and  two  others  as  trustees 
(the  "tees  without  a  trust"),  land  of  the  value  of  two  thousand  dol- 
lars, for  the  founding  of  an  academy  in  Greenland,  to  be  called 
Brackett  academy. 

Such  institution  was  incorporated  in  1824.  When,  upon  the 
death  of  Mr.  Brackett,  in  1825,  it  was  learned  that  no  provision  was 
contained  in  his  will  for  further  endowing  the  academy  in  Hampton, 
the  trustees  of  that  institution  became  aware  that  Parson  Abbott  had 
outwitted  them.  Just  what  were  the  grounds  of  the  action  brought 
by  them  against  the  trustees  of  the  Brackett  academy,  to  recover 
from  that  institution  the  money  given  it  by  Mr.  Brackett,  have  not 
been  inquired  into,  but  it  is  ventured  that  Parson  Abbott  was  charged 
with  unduly  influencing  the  aged  benefactor,  with  having  tickled  his 
pride  with  the  proposition  of  naming  for  him  an  academy  to  be 
located  in  Greenland,  if  he  gave  the  money  to  aid  in  the  enterprise; 
that  the  intention  was,  on  the  part  of  the  donor  to  give  money  to  the 
Hampton  academy,  which  he  supposed  he  was  doing  but  was  misled, 
etc.  Anyway,  the  "tecs  without  a  trust"  had  a  hard  time  of  it;  not 
only  did  they  have  on  their  hands  the  contest  with  the  Hampton 
people,  but  also  had  more  or  less  difficulty  upon  the  death  of  Mr. 
Brackett,  in  securing  control  of  the  gift,  on  account  of  the  opposition 
of  some  of  the  heirs.  One  in  particular,  was  somewhat  strenuous, 
even  obstreperous  in  his  opposition.  Thus,  Greenland's  poet  tells  it 
in  rhyme: 

"*     *     *     .     For  before  the  door  he  took  his  stand. 
And  with  a  pitchfork  in  his  hand,  he  bade  them  stay. 
'I've  some  rights;   my  father's  dying!   keep  away 
You  hungry  leeches!  find  some  other  prey.'  ' 
One  of   the  stories   still    current  in    Greenland,    about   Esquire 
George  is  as  follows:     With  old  "Star-of-the-Buttons,"  he  used  to 
drive  to  a  bank  in  Portsmouth,  whose  clerks  would  come  to  wait  on 
him  where  he  sat  in  his  wagon.     On  one  occasion,  after  the  clerks 
had  waited  on  him,   he  summonsed  them  again,  by  pounding  on  his 
wagon  as  his  custom  was,   to  inform  them  that  a  mistake  had  been 
made  in  counting  the  money  given  him.     The  clerks  told  him  that 
no  mistakes  were  corrected  after  the  money  had  once  left  the  bank. 
"Very  well,"  answered  Esquire  George,  "the  mistake  is  in  my  favor. 
Getup,  Old  Star-of-the-Buttons." 

When  the  War  of  the  Revolution  commenced  he  was  in  his 
prime  in  point  of  years;  during  the  contest  he  was  a  faithful  sup- 
porter of  the  cause  of  the  colonists.  But  few  men  in  the  province 
had  more  at  stake,   in  a  financial  way,   on  the  outcome  of  the  war, 


366  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

than  did  he.  In  December,  1775,  he  was  appointed  one  of  the  town's 
committee  of  safety,  in  which  position  he  was  continued  until  Decem- 
ber, 1777.  He  seldom  held  an}'  town  office.  In  the  year  1786,  he 
was  one  of  the  selectmen.  No  greater  honor  within  the  gift  of  his 
townsmen  could  have  been  conferred  upon  him  than  his  election  as 
delegate  from  the  town,  in  1791,  to  the  convention  which  revised  the 
constitution  of  the  state. 

It  has  not  been  learned  in  what  business  he  made  his  wealth;  it 
is  known  that  he  was  a  successful  and  prosperous  farmer.  He  gave 
freely  to  good  purpose  during  his  life,  and  possessed  a  large  estate  at 
the  time  of  his  death,  June  23,  1825,  in  the  eighty-eighth  year  of  his 
age.  During  his  life  he  was  closely  identified  with  the  interests  and 
prosperity  of  the  town,  had  the  welfare  of  its  people  at  heart  and 
bestowed  gifts  upon  them  to  the  benefit  of  their  posterity. 

He  married  December  13,  1764,  Ann  March,  born  in  1743,  died 
November  16,  1823,  daughter  of  Clement;  he  was  born  in  1707,  was 
a  physician  of  Greenland,  married  Elinor  Veazey,  will  proved  in 
June,  1777,  was  son  of  Israel;  he  was  born  April  4,  1683,  was  a 
physician  of  Greenland,  married  Mary,  daughter  of  Joseph  Hall,  of 
Greenland,  died  in  1729,  was  son  of  George;  he  was  born  about  1646, 
lived  in  Newbury,  Mass.,  married  June  12,  1672,  Mary,  daughter  of 
John  Folsom,  of  Exeter,  was  son  of  Hugh;  he  sailed  from  South 
Hampton,  England,  April  24,  163S,  in  the  "Confidence,"  and  settled 
at  Newbury,  Mass.,  married  Judith,  who  died  December  14,  1675, 
died  November  12,  1693.     Issue: 

1.  Elizabeth,  b.  29  Dec,  1765;  d.  7  Apr.,  1784. 

2.  Ann,  b.  17  Apr.,  1768;  d.  28  Jan.,  1779. 

3.  Sail}-,  b.  8  Jan.,  1 7 7 1 ;  d.  28  July,  1803. 

4.  Thomas,  b.  6  Apr.,  1773.     See  family  4. 

5.  Joshua,  b.  29  July,  1776.     See  family  4  A.  ^ 

6.  Hannah,  b.  twin  with  Joshua;  mar.  I-  U,  ""Seward;  d.  29  July, 
1806. 

7.  Elinor,  b.  14  Oct.,  1778:  d.  18  Oct.,  1804. 

8.  George,  b.  4  Aug.,  1782;  d.  24  Apr.,  1784. 

9.  Nancy,  b.  3  June,  1787;  d.  3  Nov.,  1806. 
1<».     Eliza,  b.  4  Aug.,  1790;  d.  10  Apr.,  1808. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From   Family    No.    1.     Descent:      Anthony,    Thomas.   Joshua,   John, 
Benning. 

Benning  Brackett  was  born  March  24,  1745,  in  Greenland.  By 
his  father's  will  he  became  possessed  of  "land  in  Stratham  bought  of 
Peter  Coffin;  70  acres  in  New  Market  bought  of  Joseph  Smart;  £  of 
sawmill  at  Wadleigh's  falls  and  right  in  grant  in  Durham,  called 
Symond's  grant."  He  settled  on  the  seventy  acres  in  New  Market  in 
the  Ash  Swamp  district,  south  part  of  the  town.  Young  Benning 
became  the  owner  of  this  considerable  estate  when  he  was  sixteen 
years  old;  he  required  it  all  for  the  support  of  his  numerous  children. 
During  the  War  of  the  Revolution  he  was  a  resident  of  New  Market. 
The  records  of  the  War  Department  fail  to  disclose  that  he  rendered 
any  military  service;  however,  it  is  found  that  in  March,  1776,  he  was 
a  signer  to  a  protest  to  the  appointment  of  one  Folsom  as  an  officer  of 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  367 

the  local  militia  regiment  and  it  is  probable  that  of  this  regiment  he 
was  a  member.  Was  a  capable  forehanded  farmer;  resided  in  New 
Market  continuously  from  about  1767  to  his  death,  January  21,  1815; 
buried  in  Benning  Brackett  burial  lot  on  Ash  Swamp  road  in  New 
Market.  Married  May  14,  1767,  Sarah  Bennett,  born  April  25,  1750, 
died  January  9,  1823.     Issue:  • 

1.  John,  b.  22  Feb.,  1768;  mar.  Betsey  Folsom,  b.  in  1775,  dau.  of 
William  and  wife,  Mary  Low,  of  New  Market;  he  d.  6  Mar.,  1842. 
Issue: 

1st.     William,  who  mar.  Eleanor  Folsom,  of  Ossipee. 

2nd.     Joshua,  who  never  mar. 

3d.  John  M.,  resided  in  Wolfboro,  N.  H.;  was  collector  of  inter- 
nal revenue  and  president  of  a  bank  in  Wolfboro.  Was  a  candidate 
for  governor  in  the  Republican  convention  of  1 871,  and  received  59 
votes.  The  nomination  went  to  James  Pike,  who  was  defeated  at  the 
polls.     Had, 

I.  Sarah,   who     mar.    Henry  McDuffy,   of     Wolfboro     and  d. 
childless. 

II.  Another  daughter. 
4th.      Daughters,  one  or  more. 

'1.  Sally,  b.  10  May,  1769;  never  mar.;  lived  with  her  brother 
Joshua;   d.  8  Sept.,   1N51.  ^ 

.'!.  Elizabeth,  b.  27  June,  1770;  mar.  28  Dec,  1790,  Samuel  Pick- 
ering, of  New  Market:   d.  25  June,  1857.' 

4.  Benning,  b.  6  Jan.,  1772.     See  family  5. 

5.  Daniel,  b.  2  Aug.,  1773:  d.  in  infancy. 

6.  Nancy,  b.  12  July,  1774;  mar.  Andrew  Burleigh;  d.  21  Apr., 
1  s  1  7 . 

7.  Comfort,  1).  22  .Sept..  1776;  mar.  Samuel  Eyford;  d.  24  Nov.. 
1851.  Had  children,  William:  Sally;  and  Mary,  none  of  whomever 
mar. 

8.  Daniel,  b.  6  Aug.,   177s.      .See  family  6. 

'.).  Joshua,  b.  30  Sept.,  1780,  in  New  Market;  for  a  time  lived  in 
Greenland;  was  a  farmer;  mar.  Abigail  Pickering,  b.  26  Mar.,  1787, 
in  New  Market,  dau.  of  James  and  wife.  Rachel  Wakefield  Durell,  of 
New  Market;  he  d.  21  Dec,  i860.     Issue: 

1st.  Martha  Jane,  b.  21  Apr.,  1816,  in  Greenland;  d.  21  Apr., 
[886,  in  New  Market:  mar.  5  Dec.  1839,  William  Henry  Harrison 
Montgomery  Treadwell,  b.  14  May,  1813,  in  Portsmouth,  N.  H.,  d. 
13  Apr.,  1893,  in  Exeter,  N.  H.,  was  a  carriage  builder,  resided  in 
Portsmouth,  New  Market,  X.  H.,  Haverhill  and  Boston,  Mass.,  New 
Market  and  Exeter,  N.  H.,  in  the  order  named,  was  son  of  Charles 
Treadwell;  he  was  b.  10  Dec,  1767;  d.  3  June.  1843,  mar.  26  Feb.. 
1799.  Elizabeth  Drowue  (b.  23  Dec,  1777,  d.  1  Apr.,  1862,  dau.  oi 
Samuel  and  wife,  Mary  Pickering);  was  a  sea  captain,  son  of  Nath- 
aniel; he  was  b.  6  Dec,  1730,  was  son  of  Charles;  he  was  b.  21  Sept., 
1705,  was  son  of  Nathaniel;  he  was  b.  13  June,  1677,  in  Ipswich,  was 
son  of  Nathaniel;  he  was  b.  13  Mar.,  1638,  in  Ipswich,  was  son  of 
Thomas;  he  was  b.  in  1605,  in  St.  Giles,  Cripplegate,  Eondon,  mar. 

in  1633-4  Mary ;  came  from  England  in  1635  in  ship  "Hopewell," 

settled  at  Dorchester,  moved  to  Ipswich,  d.  8  June,  167 1.  Issue,  first 
four  b.  in  New  Market  though  family  resided  in  Boston  until  1872: 


368  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

I.  Joshua  Brackett,  b.  17  Oct.,  1840,  in  New  Market;  physi- 
cian and  surgeon;  a  graduate  of  Harvard  in  1862;  during  the  civil 
war,  from  [862  to  1865,  was  asst.  sur.  in  45th  and  55th  Mass.  vol. 
inf.,  with  rank  of  lieut.;  sur.  in  5th  and  626.  Mass.  vol.  inf.  with  rank 
of  major;  since  the  war,  was  asst.  sur.  gen.  of  Mass.,  on  staff  of  the 
governor  with  rank  of  col.;  d.  6  May,  1885,  in  Boston;  mar.  15  Dec, 
1870,  at  Holliston,  Mass.,  Clara  Maria  Paddeford,  dau.  of  Frank  and 
wife,  Harriet  Wayne.     No  issue. 

II.  Benjamin  Franklin,  b.  7  June,  1842;  enlisted  19  Apr., 
1864,  2nd  battery,  light  art.,  Mass.  mil.,  promoted  corpl.,  sergt., 
2nd  and  1  st  lieut.;  in  service  of  the  United  States  from  July  to  Nov., 
1864,  when  the  organization  was  known  as  the  42nd  Mass.  vol.  mil.; 
was  discharged  19  Apr.,  1871;  resides  in  Exeter,  N.  H.  The  writer 
is  indebted  to  Mr.  Treadwell  for  many  favors. 

III.  Martha  Jane,  b.  24  Aug.,  1843;  mar.  9  Mar.,  1870, 
Alonzo  Cummings  Grout,  then  of  Rockford,  111.,  b.  18  Nov.,  1832,  in 
Chelsea,  Vt.,  son  of  Benjamin  and  wTife,  Orra  Cummings.     Issue: 

a.  Harrison  Treadwell,  b.  8  Aug.,  1871;  mar.  9  June,  1897, 
Martha  Ellen  Morrison,  b.  7  Apr.,  1865,  d.  14  Mar.,  1904,  dau.  of 
Alger  D.  Morrison  and  wife,  L,uey  Fogg. 

IV.  Sarah  Abbie,  b.  28  June,  1845,  in  New  Market. 

V.  Mary  Drowne,  b.  16  Feb.,  1847,  in  Boston;  d.  16  July. 
1 901,  in  Exeter. 

10.  Mary,  b.  19  Apr.,  1782;  mar.  28  Jan.,  1802,  Giles  Smart,  b. 
10  Dec,  1775;  she  d.  23  Mar.,  1853.     Issue: 

1st.     Charles,  b.  12  Dec,  1802. 

2nd.     Elizabeth,  b.  15  Mar.,  1804. 

3d.     Clarissa,  b.  8  Oct.,  1805;   mar.  Arthur  Bennett. 

4th.      Martha,  b.  28  Jan.,  1808. 

5th.     Caleb,  b.  8  Sept.,  1810. 

6th.      Mary  Ann,  b.  11  Nov.,  1817. 

11.  Huldah,  b.  21  June,  1784;   mar. Johnson.     Had  children. 

Amos  and  Mahala;  d.  16  Aug.,  1846. 

12.  Katharine,  b.  27  Dec,  1785;  mar.  4  Jan.,  1810,  Thomas  Aver; 
d.  13  Dec,  1847.     Issue: 

1st.     Joshua,  is  dec 

2nd.     Julia,  who  mar.  Chamberlain;  is  dec.     Issue: 
I.     Mary  Ann,  who  mar.  Arnold;  is  dec. 

13.  Hannah,  b.  21  June,  1788;  never  mar.;  lived  with  Joshua;  d. 
1  Aug.,  1852. 

14.  Purney,  b.  10  June,  1790;  mar.  9  Sept.,  1818,  George  Ayer; 
d.  26  July,  1875.     Issue: 

1st.     Pamelia,  who  mar.  Augustus  Dane. 

15.  George,  b.  6  May,  1792;  never  mar.;  lived  in  New  Market; 
d.  5  Dec,  1861. 

16.  Dydia,  b.  5  Dec,  1795;  mar.  31  Mar.,  1819,  John  Ayer;  d.  18 
July,  1843.  John  Ayer,  it  is  said,  was  older  than  either  of  his  brothers, 
Thomas  or  George,  each  of  whom  mar.  sisters  of  his  wife.     Issue: 

1st.     Sarah,  b.  in  Feb.,  1823;  mar.  Samuel  Manning;  d.  26  July, 
1 89 1.     Issue: 

I.  Wainwright  M.,  b.  in  Dec,  1852;  d.  8  Jan.,  1896. 

II.  Frederick  S.,  b.  in  Sept.,  1854;  d.  14  June,  1873. 

III.  Lydia  Brackett,  mar.  George  Hilton;  home  is  in  New 
Market. 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  369 

SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.   4. 

From  Family  No.  2.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
George,  Thomas. 
Thomas  Braekett  was  born  April  6,  1773.  Few  persons  in  Green- 
land are  there  to-day  but  who  have  heard  of  Thomas  Braekett,  and  the 
old  residents  of  the  town  can  well  remember  him.  He  was  past  the 
age  of  fifty  years  when  his  father  died,  and  at  the  time  was  the  sur- 
viving child  of  all  of  Esquire  George's  children.  The  well  known 
benevolence  of  Esquire  George,  and  his  willingness  to  believe  what 
pretentious  persons  told  him,  made  him  an  easy  victim  to  their  wiles, 
could  they  but  get  his  ear.  His  son  and  heir  well  knew  and  under- 
stood the  imposters,  and  assumed  to  protect  his  aged  father  from  the 
cunning  ones  seeking  funds  for  societies  and  institutions.  "My 
grandfather,"  wrote  Mr.  Simeon  S.  Braekett,  "sent  his  daughter 
Mary  Ann  to  guard  the  old  gentleman  from  their  importunities. 
Finally  they  became  so  bold  that  Thomas,  himself,  stood  guard,  rifle 
in  hand,  determined  to  shoot  the  first  one  who  passed  a  rope  which  he 
had  stretched  across  the  lane." 

Knowing  full  well  how  unprincipled  were  these  beggars,  Mr. 
Braekett  did  not  stop  with  warning  them  away;  they  were  men  he 
knew  very  well,  and  he  made  them  feel  his  resentment  in  many  ways; 
he  was  a  good  hater  and  in  these  instances  had  just  cause  for  hatred; 
their  cant  and  pretentious  motives  were  a  poor  screen  against  his 
attacks.  The  schemers  for  the  Braekett  academy  fund  were  success- 
ful; the  proposed  name,  perhaps,  was  what  enabled  them  to  wheedle 
the  old  gentleman  out  of  the  money  he  donated.  The  gift  he  made 
about  two  years  before  his  death;  it  consisted  of  a  wood  lot  in  the 
town  of  Ossipee,  which  sold  for  two  thousand  dollars.  The  deed  was 
made  to  trustees;  they  found  110  flower-strewn  path  to  travel,  because 
of  the  opposition  and  indignation  of  Mr.  Thomas  Braekett.  One  of 
the  trustees,  a  Mr.  Stephen  Pickering,  he  often  expressed  his  con- 
tempt for — gave  him  a  lick  with  the  rough  side  of  his  tongue  when 
he  passed  him.  One  of  their  meets  is  thus  described  by  Mr.  Otis  Hall: 
.  *  *  *  "Stephen  Pickering  here 

Once  lived  a  while  and  owned  and  kept  a  store,  quite  near 

******** 

Here  one  fast-day  he  was  hung 
Before  the  store  in  effigy,  and  there  he  hung 
All  day.     Across  the  back  was  seen  in  letters  plain 
•Think  on  thy  latter  end.'     He  had  a  thirst  for  gain, 
Which  made  him  enemies.     He  represented  once 
The  town,  and  went  to  Concord;  there  was  not  the  dunce 
That  some  do  show  themselves.     But  Thomas  Braekett  gave 
The  hint;  was  the  'good  friend'  one  might  not  wish  to  crave; 
Took  ev'ry  opportunity  remarks  to  make, 
For  Braekett  hated  well — as  women  hate  a  snake. 
So,  one  bright  June  morning  Braekett  met  the  stage 
For  Concord,  at  the  Stratham  Lane,  and,  looking  sage, 
Addressed  the  driver  slowly  as  he  said:    'I  see 
You've  got  Bill  Guppy  there  inside;  well,  let  him  be; 


370  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

But  keep  him  sale,  and  when  you  get  to  Concord,  take 
1 1  i  111  quicklj   to  state  prison  where  he  cannot  make 
More  trouble.'      Pickering  uttered  not  a  single  wrord." 

Stephen  Pickering  was  the  founder  of  a  bank  in  Wolfboro,  N.  H., 
and  was  accused  oi  having  been  instrumental  in  wrecking  it.  Thomas 
Brackett  was  unsparing  in  his  denunciations  of  Pickering  for  his 
fraudulent  acts,  and  had  no  hesitation  in  speaking  his  opinion  of  him. 
Pickering  was  a  cousin  of  Braekett's  wife,  Polly. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  tall,  broad-shouldered,  weighed  over  three 
hundred  pounds.  Was  a  graduate  of  Phillips  Exeter  academy.  He 
inherited  a  good  estate  from  his  father  including  the  homestead  in 
(  rreenland.  His  home  was  frequented  by  the  best  of  Portsmouth  and 
the  state.  One  of  his  grandchildren  wrote,  "I  can  just  remember 
seeing  Commodore  Decatur  (died  in  1876),  L,evi  Woodbury  and  Gov- 
ernor  Goodwin  at  his  house,  together  with  many  others,  whose  names  I 
do  not  remember. 

Levi  Woodbury  was  also  governor  of  the  state  in  1823-4;  he  and 
Mr.  Brackett  were  great  friends  and  with  his  family  several  times  a 
year  visited  at  the  old  mansion  house.  Mr.  Brackett  was  a  good 
entertainer,  enjoyed  the  part  of  host,  and  few  in  his  day  filled  it  better 
than  he.  His  friendship  was  dearly  prized  and  long  remembered. 
He  was  not  a  person  to  wear  away  his  life  in  sorrow  because  of  any 
fancied  wrong  or  because  of  actual  misfortune;  he  had  a  great  cause 
for  complaint,  particularly  against  men  whom  he  had  a  right  to  expect 
would  conserve  his  interests  instead  of  seeking  to  secure  bounties  from 
his  aged  and  kind-hearted  father;  he  was  a  good  hater  it  is  true,  but 
hated  well  only  for  good  cause.  Always  lived  in  Greenland;  died 
July  2,  1851.  Married  February  1,  1797,  Polly  (Mary)  Pickering,  of 
Newington,  horn  in  1776,  died  June  17,  1861,  daughter  of  Nicholas; 
he  was  born  in  1727,  will  dated  November  7,  1807,  proved  January 
[6,  [809,  married  Mary  (daughter  of  William  and  Sarah  L,angdon,  of 
Portsmouth),  was  son  of  Thomas;  he  was  born  November,  28,  1703, 
died  December  9,  1786,  married  February  7,  1727,  Mary  (daughter * 
oi  Colonel  Downing),  was  son  of  Thomas;  he  lived  in  a  log  cabin 
near  the  shore  oi  Great  bay  on  the  farm  that  was  his  father's,  died  in 
[719  20,  was  son  of  John,  the  immigrant;  he  was  in  Portsmouth  as 
earl}  as  1633,  signed  deed  for  a  glebe  with  Anthony  Brackett,  had 
several  grants  of  land,  one  of  five  hundred  acres  on  Great  bay  after- 
wards owned  by  his  son  Thomas;  in  1862,  one  hundred-seventy  acres 
of  the  tract  was  owned  by  James  C.  Pickering;  it  descended  in  male 
line  to  him.  it  never  having  been  deeded;  John  Pickering  died  Janu- 
ary [8,   1669.      Issue: 

1.  William,  b.  29  Mar.,  1798.     See  family  7. 

2.  Mary  Ann,  b.  4  Sept.,  1800;  d.  4  Oct.,  1890;  mar.  Francis 
Vose;  lived  in  Bloomfield,  Me.,  and  Pembroke,  N.  H.,  where  Mr. 
Vose  was  superintendent  of  academies;  he  died  in  Pembroke  13  Aug.. 
[851.      [ssue: 

1st.  John  Francis,  b.  19  Aug.,  1832,  in  Greenland;  mar.  3  July, 
[855,  Emma  J.  Haywood,  who  is  dec;  had  two  daughters;  at  one 
time  lived  in  Bristol,  N.  H. 

2nd.  George  Thomas,  b.  5  Aug.,  1835,  in  Bloomfield,  Me.;  at 
one  time  resided  in  Bristol,  N.  H. 

3.  George,  b.  7  Mar.,  1803.     See  family  8. 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  371 

4.  Ellen  Langdon,  b.   23  Mar.,    1805;    d.    1   May,    1839;    mar.   25 
Oct.,  1 83 1,  Daniel  Knight,  of  Corinth,  Vt.     No  issue. 

5.  Elizabeth,  b.  22  Dec.,  1808;  d.  unmar.  5  Apr.,  1890. 

6.  John  Eangdon,  b.  19  Apr.,  181 1.     See  family  9. 

FAMILY    NO.    4  A. 

From  Family  No.    2.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,  John. 
George,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born  July  29,  1776;  was  graduate  of  a  medi- 
cal school;  practiced  medicine  in  Greenland;  he  died  before  1833. 
Married  Margaret  Muloon,  much  to  his  mother's  disgust,  who  consid- 
ered her  a  person  in  the  lower  walks  of  life;  she  died  January  10,  181 3, 
age  twenty-eight  years.  On  her  tombstone  is  inscribed  that  at  the 
age  of  fourteen  she  became  converted;  was  of  deep  humility,  great 
tenderness  of  conscience,  calm  submission  under  peculiar  trials,  and  of 
uncommon  sweetness  of  temper.      Issue: 

1.      Ann,  b.  in  1806;   d.  6  Nov.,   1833. 

L'.     Joshua  M..  b.  in  t8io;  d.  at  sea  1  Dec,  1829. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From   Family   No.    3.      Descent:      Anthony.    Thomas.    Joshua,   John, 
Benning,  Benning,  Jr. 

Benning  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  January  6,  1772,  in  New  Mar- 
ket, New  Hampshire:  married  Mary  Neil;  soon  after  his  marriage  he 
removed  to  Wolfboro  iu  which  place  the  elder  children  of  his  family 
were  born;  thence  moved  to  Maine:  resided  in  Hermon,  Penobscot 
county;   was  a  farmer;  died  October  22,  1852.     Issue: 

1.      Mehitable.  1).  in  1800;   a  mute,  never  mar. 

-.      Mary,    no  record. 

:;.      Kliphalet,  b.  17  Mar.,   [805.      See  family  10. 

4.  James,  b.  22  July,  1S07.      See  family  11. 

5.  .  John,  b.  5  Sept.,   [810.      See  family  12. 

6.  George,  b.  13  Nov.,  1812.      See  family  13. 

7.  Joshua,  b.  24  May,   1815.      See  family  14. 
S.      Nancy,    no  further  record. 

9.      William,   b.   about    1N22,   in    New  Hampshire;   census   of    1850 
shows  him  living  in  North  Hermon,  a  widower;   was  a  blacksmith. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From   Family  No.   3.      Descent:      Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    John, 
Benning,  Daniel. 

Daniel  Brackett  was  born  August  6,  1778,  in  New  Market.  In 
his  day  he  was  famous  for  his  weight  which  at  one  time  was  five  hun- 
dred pounds;  was  known  as  the  New  Hampshire  giant.  He  wore  a 
belt  six  inches  wide  about  his  waist  to  hold  himself  in  shape. 
Received  offers  from  managers  of  circuses  to  exhibit  himself  as  the  Fat 
Man,  but  declined,  having  other  ambitions  in  life.  In  the  spring  of 
1837,  he  left  his  home  to  visit  relatives  and  stopped  for  a  time  with  his 
son  Joseph,  whose  residence  known  as  the  "Hill  place"  is  on  the 
road   from   Rockingham    junction    to   New   Market.     While  visiting 


372  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

there  the  weather  became  warm;  for  the  purpose  of  his  comfort  he 
removed  his  coat,  and  in  his  shirt  sleeves  sat  in  front  of  the  house;  it 
was  on  a  day  that  he  considered  a  very  warm  one.  Thus  exposed  he 
was  stricken  with  pneumonia,  then  called  inflammation  of  the  lungs, 
which  proved  fatal.  He  died  April  4,  1837.  To  admit  the  coffin  into 
the  house  it  was  necessary  to  enlarge  the  doorway;  was  buried  in  the 
family  cemetery  on  the  Benning  Brackett  farm,  on  the  Ash  swamp 
road  in  New  Market.  In  his  youth  Greenland's  rhymer  met  the 
giant,  and  thus  he  writes  of  him — 

"One  caught  my  wondering  eye,  and  that  was  Daniel  B. 

'Twas  on  the  P'rade  near  by  the  parish  church  one  day, 

The  time  that  I  remember  seeing  him.     The  way 

Was  broad,  and  all  the  voting  men  were  out, 

And  he  on  hand  to  get  a  drink  and  look  about. 

But  how  to  describe  him!  weight,  five  hundred  pounds  or  more 

And  shaped  like  a  toad;  I  looked  him  o'er. 

He  filled  the  wagon  seat  he  was  so  monstrous  fat 

And  all  humped  up  a  mass  of  flesh  and  bones;  he  sat, 

And  had  to  wear  a  leather  belt  full  one  foot  wide, 

To  keep  his  bowels  up  in  place  so  he  could  ride. 

His  wagon  had  no  springs  except  strips  of  oak 

That  ran  from  axle  tree  to  rocker;  never  broke 

Because  so  stiff  and  strong.     They  had  but  little  spring; 

Of  rude  construction;  it  was  not  a  handsome  thing. 

To  make  a  meal  for  supper,  as  the  story  went, 

A  loaf  of  brown  bread  and  a  pot  of  beans  he  sent 

Into  his  anxious  stomach,  where  a  pan  of  milk 

Soon  filled  the  aching  void.     Then  feeling  fine  as  silk, 

And  thinking  how  another  good  square  meal  would  taste 

He  pulled  himself  together  round  about  the  waist 

And  then  slept     *     *     *." 

He  lived  on  the  Haven  farm,  "down  Sodom  road  which  leads 
from  Pickering's  mill;"  later  lived  in  Tuftonboro.  Married  (1st) 
Sarah  Norris.  Married  (2nd)  Mehitable  Wiggin,  born  August  28, 
1771,  died  in  1868;  parents  resided  in  Stratham.     Issue: 

1.  Martha  C,  b.  20  Dec,  1801;  mar.  William  T.  Sanborn.  Chil- 
dren were  Mehitable  Brackett,  mar.  Dexter  Tucker  of  Henniker; 
Daniel  Brackett,  mar.  Woodbury;  Harriet,  mar.  Andrew  Gale,  (2nd) 
Geo.  Thompson;  Mary  A.,  mar.  Thos.  M.  Jaques;  Caroline,  mar.  John 
Perkins;  Martha,  mar.  Mathew  B.  Plummer. 

2.  Joseph,  b.  about  1805.      See  family  15. 
Issue  by  wife  Mehitable  Wiggin: 

3.  Sarah  Maria.  1).  19  Dec,  1806;   d.  young. 

4.  Charles  C,  b.  2  July,  1808.     See  family  16. 

5.  Mehitable  W.,  b.  26  May,  1810;   mar.  Jude  R.  Lincoln. 

6.  Priscilla  C,  b.  7  Apr.,  181 2;  mar.  William  Dongee. 

7.  Ann  E.,  b.  11  June,  1814;  d.  18  June,  1885;  mar.  Samuel 
Pickering,  son  of  Stephen  and  wife,  — *—  Starbird;  mar.  (2nd)  Joseph 
Garland.  Child,  C.  B.  Pickering,  mar.  Kate  Stone;  resides  in  Dan- 
bury,  Conn.;   has  three  children,  Harry;   Ann;   and  George. 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  373 

EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,   John, 
George,  Thomas,  William  L. 

William  Eangdon  Brackett  was  born  March  29,  1798,  in  Green- 
land; a  farmer,  also  kept  a  country  store;  in  1863,  he  built  the  Union 
saw  and  grist-mill  which  he  operated  until  his  death  May  20,  1863; 
always  lived  in  Greenland.  Married  January  24,  1826,  Abigail  Berry, 
born  in  1801,  died  in  1886;  she  was  daughter  of  Thomas  Berry.  He 
was  born  in  1755;  married  his  cousin  Mehitable,  daughter  of  his  uncle, 
Thomas  Berry  (born  1 73 1 ,  died  1799),  who  married  Abigail  Dane, 
and  lived  in  house  he  built  near  a  spring,  a  little  south  of  the  late 
Nathan  Berry's  house ) ;  was  son  of  William.  He  was  born  in  1720; 
died  in  1775;  married  Elizabeth  Hobbs;  was  son  of  Thomas.     He  was 

born  in  1688,   in  Greenland;   married  Mehitable ,  born  in   1697; 

built  a  house  near  to  Eastern  R.  R.,  now  standing  and  occupied  by 
E.  D.  Moulton,  in  which  son  William,  grandson  Thomas  and  great- 
granddaughter  Abigail  were  born;  was  son  of  William,  the  immi- 
grant, who  settled  as  early  as  1635  at  Sandy  beach,  in  Rye.     Issue: 

1.  William  H.  E.,  b.  24  Feb.,  1837.     See  family  17. 

2.  George  Berry,  b.  18  Oct.,  1838;  d.  unmar.  Sept.  14,  1867. 

3.  Ellen  Frances,  b.  31  July,  1828,  in  Greenland;  mar.  4  Feb., 
1X47,  Charles  E.  T.  Yeaton,  b.  22  Aug.,  1824,  in  Durham,  N.  H.;  is 
a  farmer;  resided  in  Greenland,  Dover  and  Portsmouth  in  the  order 
named;   son  of  Charles  and  wife,  Nancy  Thompson.      Issue: 

1st.  John  E.,  b.  in  Apr.,  1848;  mar.  in  Apr.,  1872,  Harriet 
Richmond.      Issue: 

I.  Charles  Richmond,  b.  26  May,  1873. 

II.  Susan  Ethel,  b.  27  June,  1880. 

III.  Herman  Edwin,  1).  24  July,  1882. 

IV.  Winifred  Ellen,  b.  29  Mar.,  1884. 

V.  John  Beecher,  b.  24  Feb.,  1889. 

2nd.  Clarence,  b.  in  Aug.,  1852;  mar.  25  Oct.,  1882,  Eaura 
Davis. 

3d.     Herman,  b.  in  1854;  lost  at  sea. 

4.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  5  Nov.,  1826,  in  Greenland;  mar.  3  Nov.. 
1844,  Jacob  Thayer  Brown,  b.  12  May,  1822,  d.  12  May,  1868, 
son  of  Thomas  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Drake,  of  Hampton  Falls;  home, 
in  Hampton.     Issue: 

1st.  Frank  B.,  b.  13  July,  1848;  mar.  27  Nov.,  1867,  Martha 
W.  Young;  home,  in  Hampton. 

2nd.  Clarence  T.,  b.  10  Oct.,  1854;  mar.  in  Nov.,  1877,  Sarah 
W.  Emery;   home,  in  Hampton,  N.  H.     Issue: 

I.  Edward  Jacob,  b.  27  June,  1879. 

II.  Mary  Susan,  b.  2  Dec,  1880. 


:ii4  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From   Family  No.   4.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,  John, 
George,  Thomas,  George. 

George  Brackett  was  born  March  7,  1803,  in  Greenland;  died 
February  12,  1859;  married  October  19,  1826,  Rooksby  Marston,  born 
about  1S03,  died  September  16,  1854;  was  a  farmer  in  Greenland. 
Issue: 

1.  Georgianna,  b.  29  Oct.,  1828;  d.  14  Oct.,  1859;  mar.  in  Apr., 
[852,  Richard  Robinson;  resided  in  Amesbury,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Louisa  Isabel,  b.  17  May,  1853. 

2nd.     Richard  B.,  b.  14  May.  1854;  d.  30  Oct..  1881. 

2.  Rooksby  H.,  b.  15  Mar.,  1829;   d.  same  day. 

3.  Malvina,  b.  twin  with  Rooksby  H.;  d.  15  Apr.,  1829. 

4.  George  E.,  b.  5  Apr.,  1830.     See  family  17  A. 

5.  Joshua  Pickering,  b.  29  Oct.,  1831;  d.  3  Mar.,  1852. 

6.  James  Oliver,  b.  5  July,  1833;   d.  6  Nov.,  1850. 

7.  Rooksby  A.,  b.  31  May,  1836;  d.  29  Oct.,  1904;  mar.  James 
W.  Teague,  of  Portsmouth. 

8.  Eliza  Jane,  b.  8  Nov.,  1842;  mar.  22  Aug.,  1865,  Edward 
Bennett,  who  d.  16  Oct.,  1898.     Issue: 

1st.     Georgianna,  b.  4  Apr.,  1868,  in  Waseca,  Minn. 
2nd.     James,  b.  12  Apr.,  1870;  d.  17  Aug.,  1872. 
3d.     Jennie,    b.    16   May,    1874;  mar.    28    Aug.,    1894,    Wm.    J. 
Campbell;  home,  in  Seattle,  Wash. 

4th.     Edward  M.,  b.  9  Dec,  1879. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,  John, 
George,  Thomas,  John  L. 

John  Langdon  Brackett  was  born  April  19,  181 1,  in  Greenland, 
where  he  always  resided;  was  a  farmer;  married  December  13,  1836, 
Ellen  Augusta  Smith,  born  in  1816,  died  May  31,  1896,  daughter  of 
Simeon  Pease  Smith  and  wife,  Anna  Chase  Dudley,  of  Portsmouth; 
Mr.  Brackett  died  January  20,  1890;  was  a  member  of  the  state  mili- 
tia for  many  years  and  a  trustee  of  the  Congregational  church  society 
of  Greenland  for  forty  years.     Issue: 

1.  Anna  Dudley,  b.  29  Dec,  1840:  mar.  25  Aug.,  1873,  Rev.  Mr. 
John  W.  Garland,  of  Boscobel,  P.  Q.,  b.  4  May,  1836,  son  of  William 
and  wife,  Beza  Madden;  had  charges  in  Greenland,  N.  H.,  Roxbury, 
Mass.,  Boscobel,  P.  Q.,  South  Stukely,  P.  Q.,  Portsmouth,  N.  H., 
Bridgewater,  Mass.,  West  Medford,  Mass.,  and  Goulbourn,  Province 
of  Ontario  where  they  reside.      Issue: 

1st.  Herbert  L..  b.  17  Aug.,  1874;  is  a  clerk;  home,  in  Boston. 
2nd.  Mary  Louise,  b.  12  June,  1876;  is  a  missionary  in  Canada. 
3d.      Faith,  b.  16  Mar.,  1878,  in  West  Medford,  Mass. 

2.  Simeon  S.,  b.  11  Feb.,  1848.      See  family  18. 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,     OF    GREENLAND  375 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family  No.   5.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Benning,  EHphalet. 

Eliphalet  Braekett  was  born  March  17.,  1805,  in  Wolfboro,  N.  H.; 
was  a  farmer;  lived  in  New  Harmony  and  Bangor,  Me.;  died  Febru- 
ary 22,  1888;  married  Catherine  Scott,  of  Edington,  born  in  1810, 
died  in  1883.     Issue: 

1.  Catherine,  b.  in  1832;   is  dec. 

2.  Mehitable,  b.  in  1S33;  is  dec. 

3.  Mary,  b.  in  1836;   is  dec. 

4.  Victoria,  b.  in  1839;  mar.  Nathaniel  B.  Eklridge;  home,  in 
Boston.     Issue: 

1st.     Nettie  M. 

5.  Daniel  F.,  b.  6  Dec,  1841,  in  Bangor,  Me.  Served  during  the 
civil  war  as  a  soldier,  discharged  from  the  service  8  Sept.,  1864;  has 
resided  in  Bangor,  Me.,  and  Big  Rapids,  Mich.;  retired  from  busi- 
ness; home,  in  Cape  Cod,  Mass.;  mar.  n  Feb.,  1889,  Anna  Whipple, 
b.  7  Oct.,  1849,  dau.  of  Joel  L,.  and  wife,  Barbara  Grow,  of  Winna- 
mac,  Indiana.      No  issue. 

<i.  James,  b.  2  Oct.,  1849;  mar.  Mary  Haney;  home,  in  Santuit, 
Mass.      Issue: 

1st.      Clarence,  b.  in  1S80. 
2nd.     Rosco. 


3d.     Envin. 


FAMILY    NO.    11. 


From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Benning,  James. 
James  Braekett  was  horn  July  22,  1807;  contractor  and  builder; 
resided  in  Wolfboro.  N.  H.,  Lebanon,  Me.,  and  Somersworth,  N.  H., 
in  the  order  named;  later  resided  in  Berwick  where  he  engaged  in 
the  grocery  business;  died  August  16,  1849;  married  (intention  pub- 
lished February  22,  1829,  at  Lebanon)  Sabra  Cowell,  born  January 
13,  1803,  died  September  17,  1895,  daughter  of  Edmund  and  wife, 
Comfort  Corson,  of  West  Lebanon,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Augustus,  who  d.  in  youth. 

2.  Hannah  Elizabeth,  b.  16  Sept.,  1832,  in  Lebanon;  mar.  30 
Oct.,  1850,  James  Madison  Tebbets,  b.  30  Apr.,  1816,  d.  22  Nov., 
1881,  son  of  James  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Emery,  of  Berwick;  was  a 
hardware  merchant;  home,  in  Somersworth,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1st.     Arabella  S.,  b.  15  Apr.,  1852;   mar.  7  June,  1886,  Dr.  John 
Anderson  Watson. 

2nd.     James  E.,   b.   22  July,    1855;   mar.    12  Jan.,    1881,   Harriet 
Hargraves;  d.  15  Apr.,  1886.     Issue: 

I.     James  Hargraves,  b.  20  June,  1882. 

3d.     Charles  L.  Tebbets,  b.  28  Jan.,  1858;  mar.   12  Mar.,  1887, 
Vina  Johnston. 

4th.      Mary  E.,  b.  30  Mar.,  1865;   d.  23  Feb/,  1882. 

Also  three  children  who  d.  in  infancy. 


376  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

.'!.      Uramus  O.,  b.  27  Alar.,  1835.     See  family  19. 
4.      Mary  Frances,  b.  27  Aug..  1837;  mar.  John  Pierce,  who  is  dec; 
she  d.  in  Nov.,   E864. 

.">.  Emma  Ann.  b.  14  Jan.,  1840,  in  West  Lebanon,  Me.;  mar.  12 
Mar.,  1S59,  James  Clark  Blaisdell,  b.  17  Feb.,  1837,  son  of  Enoch 
and  wife,  Sally  C.  Clark,  of  Lebanon  and  Berwick,  Me.,  a  descendant 
of  the  "Blasdales"  who  settled  in  York  about  1640,  is  a  farmer;  resi- 
dence in  Berwick.      Issue: 

1st.     Hattie,  b.  15  Apr..  1861;  d.  25  July,  1865. 
2nd.     Nellie   Frances,   b.    22    May,    1866;    mar.    26   Nov.,    1884, 
Almon  Hodsdon;  home,  in  Berwick. 

3d.  James  William,  b.  16  July,  1869;  resides  in  Newton,  Mass.; 
is  secretary  of  Bryant  and  Stratton  school;  aided  in  search  for  data  for 
compiling  this  work;  mar.  29  Nov.,  1893,  Minerva  Howell,  b.  14  Apr., 
1871,  dan.  of  James  and  wife,  Rosina  Hussey,  of  Boston  and  Roches- 
ter, N.  Y.      Issue: 

I.     Richard  Howell,  b.  29  Aug.,  1901. 
<">.     vSylvanus  P.,  b.  7  Feb.,  1842.     See  family  20. 
7.     Laura  Almeda,  b.   20  Mar.,    1845;   mar.    10  Nov.,    1867.  C.  E. 
Marshall;  home,  in  Portland.     Issue: 
1st.      Hattie  A.,  b.  14  May,  1869: 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From   Family   No.    5.     Descent:      Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,   John. 
Benning,  Benning,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  September  5,  1810.  in  Wolfboro,  N.  H.; 
was  a  farmer;  lived  in  Hermon,  Maine,  where  he  died  November  17, 
1878;  married  November  27,  1834,  Nancy  Robinson,  born  October  14, 
1809,  died  May  13,  1862.     Issue: 

1.     Orin  J.,  b.  2  Dec,  1835.     See  family  21. 

1'.  Naomi,  b.  in  Dec,  1837;  mar.  in  1858,  Isaac  Grant,  b.  in  1836, 
son  of  Alanson  and  wife,  Almira  Goodel,  of  Hermon.  is  a  teamster; 
home,  in  Bangor,  Me.      Issue: 

1st.      Charles  W..  1).  in  July,  1861. 

2nd.     Frank  H.,  b.  in  Feb.,  1876. 

3.  Laura  J.,  b.  4  Feb.,  1840;  mar.  John  Weisgerber;  home,  in 
Buchanan,  Mich.     Issue: 

Lst.     John  Emerson. 

2nd.      Fanny,  who  mar.  Rand. 

4.  Mary  M.,  b.  16  July,  1842. 

5.  John,  b.  21  Oct.,  1844;   d.  23  Sept.,  1846. 

6.  Marilla  E.,  b.  21  July,  1847;  mar.  Edwin  Howard;  d.  4  Jan., 
1  894.      Xo  issue. 

7.  Frank  C.  b.  26  July,  1853;  mar.  17  Sept.,  1873,  Lizzie  Drink- 
water,  1).  4  May,  1854,  dau.  of  Jefferson  and  wife.  Maria  Frasier,  of 
Bangor,  Me.,  is  proprietor  of  a  laundry;  home,  in  Bangor,  Me. 
Issue: 

1st.      Wade  F.,  b.  20  July,  1883. 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  377 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From  Family  No.    5.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Benning,  George. 

George  Braekett  was  born  November  13,  1812,  in  Wolfboro,  N. 
H.;  was  a  farmer;  always  lived  in  Hermon;  died  in  February,  1881; 
married  in  1836,  Elinor  Kelley,  born  in  1823,  died  in  1865,  daughter 
of  Anthony,  of  Hermon.     Issue: 

1.  Roxana,  b.  in  1S39;  mar.  Sullivan  Worcester.      Issue: 
1st.     Elizabeth  F.,  mar.  Libby;  home,  in  Bangor. 

2.  Frances  E.,  b.  in  1841;  mar.  Samuel  Maxfield. 

3.  Delicia  A.,  b.  in  1842:  mar.  Charles  Brown;  home,  in  Boston, 
Mass. 

4.  George,  b.  7  Jan.,  1844.     See  family  22. 

5.  Maria  E-,  b.  1  June,  1846;  mar.  William  Small;  home,  in  Her- 
mon. Me. 

6.  Charles  P..  b.  13  July,   1848.      See  family  23. 

FAMILY     NO.    14. 

From  Family   No.   5.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Benning,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Braekett  was  born  May  24,  1815,  in  Wolfboro,  N.  H.; 
was  a  farmer;  lived  in  North  Hermon;  moved  from  there  to  Bangor, 
Me.,  where  he  died,  August  15,  1892;  married  May  20,  1853,  Eydia 
McKenny,  born  May  22,  1S24,  died  June  15,  1890,  daughter  of  Rich- 
ard and  wile,  Lydia  Brown,  of  Stetson,  Me.     Issue: 

1.      Fisher,  b.  5  Jan..   1854;   d.   ro  Nov.,  1857. 

-.  Joshua,  b.  14  June,  1856,  in  North  Hermon,  Me.;  is  a  carpen- 
ter; home,  at  Greenville  Junction,  Me.;  mar.  20  Oct.,  1899,  Emma 
Titus,  b.  18  Jan.,  1873,  dan.  of  Charles  and  wife,  Jane  McKenny,  of 
Stetson.  Me.      Issue: 

1st.     Freeman  F.,  b.  30  Oct.,  1900. 

.'!.      Nancy,  b.  30  Jan.,  185S;  d.  15  Nov.,  1872. 

4.  Mary,  1>.  18  Dec,  i860;  mar.  23  Apr.,  1895,  John  A.  Twombly, 
b.  20  Sept.,  1853,  son  of  Addison  M.  and  wife,  Dorothy  J.  Frost,  of. 
Lincoln,  Me.,  works  in  a  shoe  factory;  home,  in  Bangor,  Me.  No 
issue. 

5.  Lydia,  b.  16  Aug.,  1864,  in  North  Hermon,  Me.;  mar.  24  Dec, 
1898,  Henry  M.  Choate,  b.  16  Aug.,  1861,  son  of  Leonard  and  wife, 
Emeline  M.  Cook,  of  Newburyport,  Mass.;  home,  in  Boston;  Mr. 
Choate  is  an  accountant.     Issue: 

1st.     Albert  D. 

FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From   Family   No.    6.     Descent:    Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,   John, 
Benning,  Daniel,  Joseph. 

Joseph  Braekett  was  born  about  1805;  married  Mary  J.  Manning, 
born  about  181 1;  lived  in  Rockingham,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Mehitable,  b.  about  1830;   mar.  David  Chapman. 

2.  James  P.,  b.  about  1833;   mar.  Mary  Kelley. 

3.  Lydia  C,  b.  about  1835;  mar.  Evans. 


378  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

4.  Daniel,  b.  about  1838;   mar.  Olive  Willey. 

5.  Mary  J.,  b.  about  1839;   d.  in  1855. 

6.  Martha. 

7.  Joseph  E.,  b.  about  1842;  machinist,  now  a  farmer;  home,  in 
Rockingham  junction,  N.  H.;  mar.  (1st)  31  Dec,  1864,  Almira  C. 
Rand,  dan.  of  Trundy,  of  Rye;  she  was  b.  16  Nov.,  1838;  d.  25  Mar., 
1902;  mar.  (2nd)  9  June,  1905,  widow  Mary  J.  Huzzey,  b.  in  1849, 
dan.  of  Joseph  Leake,  Of  Chichester,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1st.  Herbert  E..  b.  in  1866;  mar.  Mary  Slick,  b.  in  Germany; 
is  a  dealer  in  provisions  and  meat  in  Maiden,  Mass.  Children  are, 
Herbert  E.:  Mary;  Joseph  N. 

2nd.     George  T..  b.  in  1867;  home,  in  New  Market. 

3d.     Edward  T.,  b.  in  1870. 
•    4th.     Joseph  A.,  b.  in  1877;  lives  in  Newburyport,  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.    16. 

From   Family  No.    6.      Descent:      Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,  John. 
Benning,  Daniel,  Charles  C. 

Charles  Cutts  Brackett  was  born  July  2,  1808;  was  a  carpenter 
and  builder;  resided  in  Topsfield  and  Quincy,  Mass.;  represented 
Topsfield,  in  the  legislature  in  1844;   married  Sarah  Peabody,  born  in 

1808,  died  May  24,  1885,  daughter  of  Oliver  and  wife, Estes  or 

Esty,  of  Boxford,  Mass.     He  died  April  6,  1885.     Issue: 
-  1.     Charles  O.,  b.  14  Dec,  1834.     See  family  24. 
2.     George  A.,  b.  12  Oct.,  1836.     See  family  25. 
'A.      Ann  E.,  b.  in  1844;  home,  in  Topsfield,  Mass. 
4.     Albert  A.,  b.  5  Dec,  1850.     See  family  26. 


NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    17. 

From  Family  No.   7.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,.  John,. 
George,  Thomas,  William,  William  H.  L. 

William  Henry  Eangdon  Brackett  was  born  February  24,.  1837, 
in  Greenland,  N.  H.,  where  he  always  lived;  was  a  millwright; 
served  on  the  board  of  education  and  as  selectman;  treasurer  of 
masonic  lodge  for  many  years;  married  January  4,  1863,  Henrietta, 
A.  de  Rochemont,  born  February  27,  1845,  daughter  of  George  W. 
and  wife,  Henrietta  de  Witt,  of  Portsmouth.  Mr.  Brackett  died 
March  5,  1895.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Ellen,  b.  2S  Mar.,  1864,  in  Greenland;  mar.  1  Sept.,. 
1887,  Frank  M.  Hoyt,  b.  23  Jan.,  1859,  son  of  Samuel  W.  and  wife,. 
Harriet  S.  Murray,  of  Newington,  N.  H.;  is  a  publisher;  home,  in 
Greenland;  formerly  lived  in  Chelsea,  Medford,  and  Melrose,  in  the 
order  named.     Issue: 

1st.     Lawrence  Brackett,  b.  10  Sept.,  1891. 
2nd.     Ruth  Alden,  b.  30  Dec,  1893. 

2.  Charles  Henry,  b.  1  Nov.,  1865.     See  family  27. 


CAPTAIN   JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  379 

3.  George  William,  b.  14  May,  1867,  in  Greenland;  is  a  printer; 
home,  in  Greenland;  formerly  resided  in  Cambridge  and  Everett, 
Mass.;  mar.  14  Aug.,  1891,  Grace  Annie  Pickering,  b.  11  Dec,  1875, 
dau.  of  Oliver  and  wife,  Georgie  Adams,  of  Greenland.     Issue: 

1st.     Ray  Cecil,  b.  9  Aug.,  1892. 

4.  Abbie  Brown,  b.  1  Feb.,  1869,  in  Greenland;  mar.  17  Sept., 
1890,  Arthur  J.  Durell,  b.  1  Dec,  1862,  son  of  Charles  E.  and  wife, 
Paulina  Allen,  of  Newfield,  N.  H.;  husband  is  a  pattern-maker; 
home,  in  Newfield,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1st.     Gordon  Brackett,  b.  4  Jan.,  1896. 
2nd.     Newman  Osborne,  b.  23  Aug.,  1898. 
3d.     Thayre,  b.  14  Feb.,  1905. 

5.  Henrietta  Thayre,  b.  19  Dec,  187 1,  in  Greenland;  mar.  4  July, 
1892,  Howard  Evans  Rundlett,  b.  20  May,  1866,  son  of  Greenleaf  B. 
and  wife,  Martha  Hayes,  of  Newfield,  manager  in  employ  of  Allen 
Chalmers  company;  residence  in  New  York  city;  formerly  lived  in 
Scranton,  Pa.,  and  Boston. 

FAMILY    NO.    17A. 

From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
George,  Thomas,  George,  George  E. 

George  Edwin  Brackett  was  born  April  5,  1830;  died  October  3, 
1880;  married  June  26,  1852,  Mary  Elizabeth  Gee  Pickering,  who 
died  March  10,  1884.  Was  a  farmer  in  Greenland;  resided  on  the 
estate  which  belonged  to  his  ancestor,  George,  son  of  John,  as 
"Rambles  about  Greenland"  reads: — 

"Adjoining  these  we  come  to  George  Ed  Brackett  place, 
That  handed  down  through  generations  six  we  trace 
The  Brackett  Blood,  and  find  a  Captain  Thomas  B. 
Comes  first  and  then  a  George  and  then  a  Thomas  B. 
A  second  time;  then  comes  a  George  and  George  Ed.  B. 
A  second  time.     The  scene  is  beautiful;  the  bay 
As  blue  as  blue  can  be,  and  on  a  sunny  day 
It  makes  me  wish  to  be  a  duck  or  goose  and  sail 
Away  from  all  that  makes  life  wearisome  and  frail. 
The  place  is  not  the  place  it  was  when  Thomas  died  — 
The  farm  of  all  the  farms  and  so  the  boast  and  pride 
Of  all  around.     Much  of  the  land's  been  sold  and  gone 
To  other  parties;  thus  the  moving  world  moves  on." 
It  was  a  Captain  John  Brackett  who  came  first.     Issue: 
1.     George  Edwin,  b.  27  Sept.,  1869;  mar.  Phila  Deach;  home,  in 
Greenland.     Issue: 

1st.     George  Edwin. 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From  Family  No.  9.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
George,  Thomas,  John  L.,  Simeon  S. 
Simeon  Smith  Brackett  was  born  February  11,  1848,  in  Green- 
land, N.  H.,  where  he  has  resided  since,  except  of  a  short  period 
when  he  dwelt  in  Roxbury,  Mass.;  is  a  dealer  in  lumber  and  grain; 
has  served  as  chairman  on  the  board  of  selectmen  and  for  several 


380  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

years  as  trustee  of  the  Congregational  church  society.  Mr.  Brackett 
has  a  chest,  believed  to  have  been  the  property  of  one  of  the  daugh- 
ters of  Anthony,  the  immigrant,  and  made  or  purchased  for  her  use 
at  the  time  of  her  marriage;  it  is  about  five  feet  in  length,  and  two 
and  one-half  feet  in  height;  is  made  in  a  very  substantial  manner, 
and  though  it  has  had  rough  usage  at  some  time,  is  well  preserved 
and  intact.  He  also  has  a  sword  which  has  been  in  the  family  for 
many  years  —  for  over  one  hundred-fifty  years  at  least.  Mr.  Brackett 
is  of  the  opinion  that  the  sword  belonged  to  Lieutenant  Joshua 
Brackett,  of  the  third  generation;  he  wrote: — "neither  do  I  know 
anything  about  the  sword  beyond  Squire  George's  father  passing  it 
along  to  him  as  a  sacred  relic  with  instructions  to  keep  it  in  the 
Brackett  name."  Squire  George's  father,  Captain  John  Brackett, 
was  himself  a  soldier,  and  for  years  commanded  fort  William  and 
Mary,  and  perhaps  the  sword  was  his.  Whether  the  sword  was 
Lieutenant  Joshua's  or  Captain  John's,  it  has  passed  into  very  good 
hands  where  its  value  is  fully  appreciated.  The  writer  is  indebted 
to  Mr.  Brackett  for  a  good  many  favors  in  the  compiling  of  this  his- 
tory. Married  October  10,  1877,  Sarah  Abby  Barrell,  born  June  29, 
1846,  daughter  of  Charles  Colborn  Barrell  and  wife,  Sarah  Johnson 
Cutts,  of  York,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Blanche,  b.  7  Dec,  1878;   d.  10  Dec,  1878. 

2.  Ellen  Augusta,  b.  14  Apr.,   1882;   is  a  teacher,  a  graduate  of 
Smith's  college,  North  Hampton,  Mass.    <\  ,  -<r\ 

3.  Colborn  Barrell,  b.  19  May,  1884. 

FAMILY   NO.    19. 

From  Family  No.  11.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Benning,  James,  U ramus  O. 

Uramus  Orril  Brackett  was  born  March  27,  1735;  married  March 
8,  1856,  Caroline  Hammond,  born  May  22,  1836,  died  June  2,  1896, 
daughter  of  William  D.  and  wife,  Sarah  Savary,  of  Marblehead, 
Mass.  Mr.  Brackett  was  engaged  in  different  lines  of  business  dur- 
ing the  course  of  his  life,  was  dealer  in  jewelry,  wood  and  coal,  and 
in  express  business;  was  also  postmaster,  representative,  state  sena- 
tor, and  a  member  of  Governor  Perham's  council  from  1870  to  1873; 
resided  in  Somersworth,  N.  H.,  Berwick,  Me.,  and  Merrimac,  Mass. 
Issue: 

1.  Frederick,  b.  27  Jan.,  1859;  d.  8  Mar.,  i860. 

2.  Anna  Delia,  b.   8  May,    1861;  mar.   5  July,    1883,   William  C. 
Russell;  home,  in  Merrimac,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Moses  Chandler. 
2nd.     Kverett  Brackett. 

3.  Louise  Carolyn,  b.  26  June,  1869. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From  Family  No.  11.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Benning,  James,  Sylvanus  P. 

Sylvanus  P.  Brackett  was  born  February  7,  1842,  in  West 
Lebanon,  Me.;  is  a  confectioner;  home,  in  Dover,  N.  H.;  formerly 
resided  in  Berwick,   Me.,   Attleboro,   Mass.,   and  New  York  city,  in 


CAPTAIN   JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  381 

the  order  named;  served  three  years  in  the  United  States  Navy  on 
ship  "Kearsarge,"  participated  in  the  sinking  of  the  "Alabama;" 
was  town  clerk  of  Berwick  and  assistant  postmaster  there,  and  first 
assistant  postmaster  in  Togus,  Me.  Married  June  28,  1869,  Maggie 
H.  Wright,  born  in  1850,  died  May  8,   1873,  daughter  of  Henry  and 

wife,  Sawyer,  of  Damariscotta,  Me.;  married  (2nd)  January  11, 

1879,  Lillia  Quimby,  of  Somersworth  (formerly  Great  Falls),  N.  H., 
born  January  19,  1855,  daughter  of  Daniel,  born  about  1875,  died  in 
1858,  and  wife,  Eunice  Wood,  born  in  1812,  died  in  1883,  of  West 
Lebanon,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  James  Henry,  b.  27  June,  1870;  d.  28  Jan.,  1875. 

2.  Maud  Louise,  b.  29  July,  1872;   is  a  clerk  in  the  service  of  the 
Federal  government. 

3.  Wallace  James,  b.  7  Oct.,  1882;  d.  4  May,  1883. 

4.  Bessie  Merle,  b.  27  Feb.,  1884. 


FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From  Family  No.  12.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Benning,  John,  Orin  J. 

Orin  J.  Brackett  was  born  December  2,  1835;  was  a  mattress- 
maker  and  resided  in  Oakland,  Cal.,  at  the  time  of  his  death,  Octo- 
ber 7,  1899;  formerly  lived  in  Hermon,  Me.,  Bangor,  Me.,  and  Great 
Falls,  N.  H.,  in  the  order  named;  married  April  22,  1880,  Ida  Can- 
field,  born  September  9,  1855,  daughter  of  Edward  F.  and  wife, 
Mary  A.  Davison,  of  Randolph,  Crawford  county,  Pa.     Issue: 

1.  Ivy  D.,  b.  7  Aug.,  1882. 

2.  William  R.,  b.  10  Jan.,  1884. 

3.  Ray  E.,  b.  23  July,  1888. 

4.  Floyd,  b.  4  Feb.,  1892. 


FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From  Family  No.  13.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Benning,  George,  George. 

George  Brackett  was  born  January  7,  1844,  in  North  Hermon, 
Me.;  business  is  roofing;  home,  in  Saginaw  N.  S.,  Mich.;  served  in 
company  A,  13th  Maine  volunteer  infantry,  from  October  20,  1861, 
date  of  enlistment,  to  January  7,  1865,  date  of  discharge;  married 
(1st)  April  10,  1870,  Belle  Jones;  married  (2nd)  Ellen  Stengel,  born 
April  4,  1849,  daughter  of  Joel  and  wife,  Ellen  Averill,  of  Croton, 
Newaygo  county,  Mich.     Issue: 

1.  Fred  T.,  b.  7  May,  1867. 

2.  Lillian   Belle,   b.    15  June,    1872;   mar.    22   June,    1897,    E.  B. 
Shearer. 

3.  Cora  Edna,  b.  17  Sept.,  1S74;   mar.  7  June,  1898,  R.  H.  Clark. 

4.  George  Arthur,  b.  10  July,  1877;  d.  6  July,  1882. 

5.  Charles  Percy,  b.  8  Sept.,  1883;  d.  24  Nov.,  1887. 


382  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY  NO.  23. 
From  Family  No.  13.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Benning,  George,  Charles  P. 
Charles  P.  Braekett  was  born  July  13,  1S48,  in  Hermon,  Me.; 
is  a  carriage  maker;  resides  in  Hermon;  married  December  24,  1876, 
Fannie  D.  Overlock,  born  August  28,  1851,  daughter  of  Martin  and 
wife,  Martha  Holt,  of  Hermon.     Issue: 

1.  Mary.  b. -2  Feb.,  1878;  mar.  9  June,    1897,   Lionel  D.  Phillips; 
home,  in  Bangor,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Harold  D.,  b.  24  Jan.,  1900. 

2.  Mattie,  b.  20  Jan.,  1880. 
:;.     G.  Budd,  b.  8  Feb.,  1883. 
4.     C.  Ralph,  b.  5  Mar.,  1887. 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 
From  Family  Xo.  16.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Daniel,  Charles  C,  Charles  O. 

Charles  Oliver  Braekett  was  born  December  14,  1834,  in  Box- 
ford,  Mass.;  was  a  dealer  in  grain;  at  the  time  of  his  death,  Januarj^ 
21,  1899,  he  resided  in  Quincy,  Mass.;  formerly  lived  in  Topsfield 
and  Weymouth,  Mass.;  married  November  11,  1864,  Emily  Ann 
Pitts,  born  April  13,  1836,  daughter  of  William  Folger  Pitts  and  wife, 
Sarah  Emerv,  of  Skowhegan,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  William,  b.  4  Sept.,  1866;  d.  4  Apr.,  1868. 

2.  Charles  P.,  b.  21  Feb.,  1869.     See  family  28. 

3.  Abby  Bass,  b.  28  Jan.,  1871;  mar.  13  Nov..  1900,  Parker  Mud- 
gett  Dicke}^;  home,  in  Quincy,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Albert  Edwin,  b.  2  Dec.  1901. 

FAMILY  NO.  25. 
From  Family  No.  16.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Daniel,  Charles  C,  George  A. 
George  A.  Braekett  was  born  October  12,  1836,  in  Boxford, 
Mass.;  is  a  hide  merchant  on  Congress  street,  Boston;  home,  in 
Quincy;  formerly  lived  in  Topsfield,  Mass.;  married  February  22, 
1869,  Luella  A.  Willis,  born  May  12,  1849,  daughter  of  Mitchell 
Willis  and  wife,  Amanda  M.  Pratt,  of  Skowhegan,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Luella,   b.   5    Dec,    1869;   mar.   in  Mar.,    1898,   John  Rogers; 
home,  in  Ouincy.      Issue: 

1st.      Helen,  b.  7  Jan.,  1899. 

2.  George,  who  is  unmar.;  home,  in  Quincy. 

FAMILY    NO.    26. 
From  Family  No.  16.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Daniel,  Charles  C,  Albert  A. 
Albert  A.  Braekett  was  born  December  5,    1850;  is  a  wholesale 
dealer  in  leather  on  South  street,  Boston;  home,  in  East  Milton;   was 
member  of  the  legislature  of  Massachusetts,  in  1888;  married  Lavina 
H.  Bunton.     Issue: 
1.     Albert  E. 
'2.      Vina  P. 


CAPTAIN    JOHN,    OF    GREENLAND  383 

TENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    27. 

From  Family  No.  17.     Descent:     Anthony.   Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
George,  Thomas,  William,  William  H.  L.,  Charles  H. 

Charles  Henry  Braekett  was  born  November  1,  1865,  in  Green- 
land, N.  H.,  where  he  has  always  resided;  is  a  farmer;  married  May 
12,  1886,  Fannie  M.  Lamprey,  born  May  20,  1863,  daughter  of  Ed- 
win and  wife,  Elizabeth  Brown,  of  North  Hampton,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Edwin  L.,  b.  21  Dec,  1887. 

2.  Charles  H.,  b.  10  Sept.,  1889. 

3.  William  H.  L.,  b.  27  Aug.,  1892. 

4.  Ralph  de  R.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1893. 
•V      Esther  M.,  b.  22  Oct.,  1895. 
('».     Constance,  b.  25  July,  1899. 

FAMILY    NO.    28. 

From  Family  No.  24.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  John, 
Benning,  Daniel,  Charles  C,  Charles  O.,  Charles  P. 

Charles  Peabody  Braekett  was  born  February  21,  1869,  in 
Quincy,  Mass.;  is  a  dealer  in  leather;  home,  in  Quincy;  married 
March  23,  1898,  Lillian  Whittier  Phillips,  born  November  10,  1873, 
daughter  of  Horace  Whittier  Phillips  and  wife,  Mary  Vinal  Lincoln, 
of  Quincy.     Issue: 

1.     Phillips,  b.  30  Dec,  1898. 

'_'.     Charles  Peabody,  b.  18  Aug.,  1900. 


384  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


DIVISION    NO.    14. 


SAMUEL   BRACKETT   OF   NEW  MARKET  AND 
HIS    DESCENDANTS. 

FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  VII.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Braekett  was  born  in  Greenland,  N.  H.,  about  1705;  he 
lived  the  greater  portion  of  his  life,  and  died,  in  New  Market;  was  a 
resident  of  that  town  prior  to  1740.  Public  records  are  the  sources  of 
information  for  facts  pertaining  to  this  man's  life;  no  descendant  of 
his  has  affirmed  anything  concerning  him.  His  father  devised  to  him 
a  one-half  interest  in  the  property  at  Wadleigh's  falls.  His  house 
was  near  the  mill  on  this  property.  The  town  record  relative  to  the 
laying  out  of  a  road  by  the  selectmen,  describes  the  place  where  his 
house  stood.  A  copy  of  the  record  is  here  given  to  enable  those  to 
locate  the  former  site  of  the  house  who  may  wish  to  do  so.  It  reads — 
"New  Market,  March  31,  1752.  We,  the  subscribers  have  laid  out 
an  open  publick  highway  from  Eamperell  river  landing  place  at  the 
watter  side  to  the  line  between  said  New  Market  and  Durham,  at  that 
place  in  said  line  where  Wadleys  way  (so  called)  crosses  said  line; 
laid  out  two  rods  broad  as  the  way  now  goes  and  bounded  as  follows 
from  said  watter  side  up  the  path  on  the  southerly  side  of  Mr.  Joseph 
Smiths  house  and  Deacon  Joseph  Judkins  house,  and  on  the  north  of 
Mr.  William  Talors  house  to  Piscasiek  bridge  and  then  on  betwene 
Mr.  Samuel  Bracketts  house  and  barn  to  the  north  of  Mr.  John  Ben- 
nicks  (Bennetts)  house,  and  between  Samuel  Rawlings  house  and 
barn,  and  between  Mr.  Samuel  Aseleys  barn  and  Mr.  Joseph  Smarts 
house,  and  so  on  as  the  path  now  goes  on  the  north  of  Mr.  John 
Palmers  house,  and  so  on  as  the  path  now  goes  to  said  line  between 
said  New  Market  to  said  Durham." 

His  name  appears  several  times  on  the  town  records  of  New- 
Market.  March  19,  1744,  he  was  allowed  twenty  shillings  old  tenor, 
on  an  account  he  had  against  the  town;  signed  petition  dated  March 
12,  1752,  for  highway  from  New  Market  to  Wadleigh's  falls;  March 
29,  1756,  appointed  a  surveyor  of  highways;  again  appointed  March 
2,s-  1 757;  signed  petition  dated  January  18,  1760,  for  highway 
between  Eppiug  and  New  Market;  also  signed  petition  March  5,  1766. 
for  landing  place  at  Lamperel  river  "which  has  been  upwards  of  100 
years  as  such,  to  become  town  property  and  protected  as  such." 

The  date  of  his  death  is  not  known;  his  estate  was  probated  in 
1767.  Through  some  oversight  the  public  record  pertaining  to  it  was 
not  properly  indexed,  if  indexed  at  all,  and  until  the  last  few  years  it 
was  not  known  by  those  living  that  any  records  as  to  his  estate  were 
extant.  In  the  records  are  named  his  children  who  survived  him:  it 
is  the  only  source  of  authority  we  have  as  to  members  of  his  family. 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  385 

No  mention  of  his  wife  is  made;  she  had  probably  died  before  he  did. 
Her  maiden  name  has  not  come  down  to  us.  She  was  perhaps  a  Hil- 
ton or  a  Weeks.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Elizabeth,  who  mar.  Masson. 

2.  Keziah,  who  mar.  Noah  Lord. 

3.  Molly,  who  mar.  Perkins. 

4.  Mary,  mar.  Benjamin  Chapman,  b.  in  Jan.,  1737,  son  of  Samuel 
of  New  Market.     Issue: 

1st.  Paul,  b.  9  Nov.,  1 761:  d.  about  1838;  mar.  (1st)  Sarah 
Smart,  dau.  of  Robert;  mar.  (2nd)  Nancy  Chapman.  Issue  by  first 
wife: 

I.     Mary,  who  mar.  Benjamin  Braekett   (see  issue  fam.  8,  this 

div.). 

2nd.     Lydia,  who  d.  unmar. 
3d.     Noah,  who  d.  in  West  Indies. 
4th.     John,  who  never  mar. 

5th.  Joseph,  mar.  (1st)  about  1792,  Polly  Ray,  d.  in  1810; 
mar.  (2nd)  Olive  Dustin;   lived  in  Meredith,  N.  H;   d.  24  July,  1822. 

5.  Abigail,   mar.  1  Apr.,  1762,  Nicholas  Harford. 

6.  Joshua.     See  family  2. 

7.  Ichabod.      See  family  3. 

8.  John.      See  family  4. 


SIXTH     GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:      Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua. 

Joshua  was  born  probably  in  New  Market,  N.  H.  The  date  of 
his  death  is  not  known;  the  youngest  child  of  his  family  of  ten  chil- 
dren, was  born  in  1784.  He  was  a  farmer  and  always  lived  in  New 
Market.  The  first  mention  of  his  name  contained  in  the  town  records, 
is  as  signer  with  his  father  to  a  petition  dated  March  5,  1766,  for  a 
"landing  place  at  Lamperel  river." 

His  military  service  in  the  War  of  the  Revolution  is  not  known 
with  certainty,  he  perhaps  was  a  member  of  a  local  militia  company; 
in  March,  1776,  he  was  a  signer  to  a  protest  to  the  appointment  of  one 
Folsom  as  lieutenant-colonel  of  the  local  militia  regiment,  of  which 
he  probably  was  a  member.  In  1775,  at  the  beginning  of  the  war  he 
and  his  brother  Ichabod,  under  contract  with  the  provincial  authori- 
ties, supplied  "pinch  wood"  for  use  in  constructing  and  repairing  for- 
tifications in  Portsmouth  harbor.  Also  in  1779,  they  filed  an  account 
of  supplies  for  the  use  of  the  army  furnished  in  that  year. 

Joshua  was  also  a  member  of  the  West  society;  in  1778,  with  his 
brother  Ichabod  presented  an  application  to  the  town  clerk  of  New 
Market  to  have  their  names  enrolled  as  members  of  that  society. 
Issue: 

1.     Jeremiah,  b.  19  May,  1764.     See  family  5. 


386  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2.  Eunice,  b.  25  Oct.,  1766;  mar.  13  Nov.,  1785,  Isaac  Burleigh; 
lived  in  New  Market.     Issue: 

1st.      Deborah,  who  mar.  Napoleon  Home;  lived  in  Wolfboro. 

2nd.      Mary  Ann,  who  mar.  (2nd)    Fullerton;   lived  in  Wolfboro. 

3d.     James,  who  lived  and  d.  in  New  Market. 

4th.     Emily,  who  mar.  Thomas  Cheswell. 

5th.     Eunice,  who  mar.  (1st)  Wiggin;    (2nd)  Whitehouse. 

3.  Samuel,  b.  8  Jan.,  1769;  mar.  12  Apr.,  1797,  Sally  Dow;  no 
further  record. 

4.  Sarah,  mar.  6  Jan.,  1802,  Samuel  Cheswell;  had  children, 
Maria;  Elizabeth;  Sophia  and  Philanson;  settled  in  the  state  of  New 
York. 

5.  John,  b.  6  Mar.,  1774.     See  family  6. 

I).  Deborah,  b.  4  May,  1776;  mar.  7  Feb.,  1796,  Barker  Wiggin; 
lived  in  New  Market. 

7.  Joshua,  b.  28  Apr.,  1779.     See  family  7. 

8.  Elizabeth  Jane,  b.  29  June,  1781;  mar.  4  Sept.,  1801,  Na- 
thaniel Brackett  (see  fam.  3,  div.  17). 

9.  Benjamin,  b.  23  Mar.,  1784.     See  family  8. 

10.  Mary,  b.  in  1789;  was  living  in  1850,  with  her  nephew  Joshua, 
son  of  Jeremiah. 


FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From  Family  No  1.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Ichabod. 

Ichabod  Brackett  was  born  in  New  Market,  N.  H.,  in  what  year 
is  uncertain;  he  was  past  the  age  of  forty-five  years  in  1791;  was 
appointed  in  1767,  administrator  of  his  father's  estate,  hence  was, 
perhaps,  his  eldest  son.  The  first  mention  of  his  name  in  the  town 
records,  is  under  date  of  March  29,  1764,  when  he  was  appointed  by 
selectmen  to  a  minor  town  office.  In  the  same  year  on  May  1,  he 
presented  to  the  provincial  assembly  a  petition  whose  purpose  is  not 
disclosed — perhaps  some  measure  of  relief;  it  was  denied.  In  1778, 
he  petitioned  the  town  clerk  to  become  a  member  of  the  "West 
society;"  it  was  a  religious  organization  independent  of,  and,  in  its 
beginning,  much  at  variance  with,  the  old  Congregational  society  of 
the  town,  not  alone  on  doctrinal  points.  The  place  of  worship  of  the 
West  society  was  at  New  Market  plains  about  a  mile  above  the  bridge 
across  the  Pacassic  river,  close  by  which  was  the  farm  that  belonged 
to  his  father;  when  Ichabod  lived  on  the  farm  he  was  a  member  of  the 
West  society.  Its  first  pastor  was  Rev.  Mr.  Nathaniel  Ewer  who 
remained  with  it  in  that  capacity  for  fifty-four  years.  Ichabod  moved 
to  the  south  part  of  the  town  where  lived  his  wife's  people;  the  local- 
ity is  known  as  the  "Four  corners."  He  signed  petition  dated  March 
23,  1784,  for  appointment  of  magistrate  for  New  Market;  no  subse- 
quent mention  of  his  name  in  the  town  records.  The  census  of  1790, 
shows  him  a  resident  of  the  town  of  Canterbury,  N.  H.,  with  a  family, 
which,  as  appears  by  that  census,  consisted  of  one  male  under  the  age 
of  sixteen  years  and  three  females,  probably  his  wife  and  two  unmar- 
ried daughters.  In  1795,  he  removed  to  Caledonia  county,  Vermont; 
in  the  county  in  which  he  resided  he  held  the  office  of  sheriff. 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW  MARKET  387 

There  has  been  nothing  published  to  show  that  Iehabod  Brackett 
served  as  a  soldier  in  the  War  of  the  Revolution.  However,  there  is 
this  known,  that  he  with  his  brother  Joshua  in  1775,  furnished  "pinch 
wood  and  other  combustibles' '  for  fire-rafts  to  be  used  for  the  defense 
of  Portsmouth  harbor;  the  bill  which  they  presented  to  the  provincial 
assembly  was  for  labor  of  men  and  oxen  procuring  "pinch"  wood,  etc. 
The  date  of  his  death  has  not  been  learned. 

Married  Mary  Hilton;  she  was  born  February  14,  1737,  was 
daughter  of  Edward,  name  of  wife  unknown,  died  in  October,  1776, 
was  son  of  Richard;  he  married  his  cousin  Ann  Hilton;  he  was  son  of 
Captain  William  Hilton,  and  she  was  daughter  of  his  brother  Edward, 
who  was  born  in  1626  in  Exeter,  N.  H.,  died  April  28,  1699,  married 
Ann  Dudley,  was  son  of  Edward;  he  was  the  immigrant,  name  of  wife 
is  unknown,  was  without  doubt  a  younger  son  of  Baron  Hilton  and 
was  born  at  Hilton  castle,  Wearmouth,  Durham  county,  England. 

Ann  Dudley  was  born  October  16,  1641,  in  Salisbury,  Mass.,  was 
daughter  of  Rev.  Samuel;  he  was  born  about  1606,  at  Canon's  Ashby, 
Northamptonshire,  England,  died  February  10,  1683,  in  Exeter,  N. 
H.,  married  in  1632  Mary  Winthrop,  was  son  of  Governor  Thomas; 
he  was  born  at  Canon's  Ashby  about  1576,  died  December  31,  1653, 
at  Roxbury;  married  Dorothy  Yorke;  commanded  a  company  of 
Xorthshiremeu  at  siege  of  Amiens;  was  steward  to  the  Earl  of  Lincoln 
until  1630,  when  he  became  a  Puritan;  came  to  America  with  Gov. 
Winthrop;  was  chosen  assistant  and  deputy  governor;  and  in  1634, 
1640,  1645,  and  again  in  1650,  was  chosen  governor  of  the  Massa- 
chusetts Bay  colony. 

Mary  Winthrop,  born  in  161 2,  died  April  16,  1643,  was  daughter 
of  Governor  John  Winthrop;  Ik-  was  born  January  12,  1587,  was  from 
Groton  manor,  Suffolk,  Eng.,  married  March  16,  1605,  Mary  (only 
child  of  John  Forth,  of  Great  Stambridge,  Essex  county,  Eng.),  was 
son  of  Adam  Winthrop;  lie  was  born  August  10,  1548,  at  Groton 
Manor,  married  February  29,  1579,  Anne  (daughter  of  Henry  Brown, 
of  Edwardstone,  Suffolk,  Eng.),  died  in  March,  1623,  was  son  of 
Adam;  he  was  born  October  9,  1498,  in  Lavenham,  Eng.,  married 
July  20,  1534.  Agnes  (daughter  of  Robert  Sharpe),  died  November 
9,  1562,  was  son  of  Adam;  he  married  in  1498,  Joan  Burton.     Issue: 

1.  Simeon,  mar.  24  Dec,  1789,  Betsey  Eastman  and  lived  in 
Concord,  N.  H.;  removed  to  Caledonia,  Vt.;  it  has  not  been  learned 
that  he  had  any  male  issue. 

2.  Levi.      See  family  9. 

3.  Iehabod.     See  family  10. 

4.  Perhaps  a  dan. 

5.  Perhaps  dau.  Mary. 


FAMILY    NO.   4. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  in  New  Market.  Little  that  is  authentic 
is  known  of  him.  From  the  town  records  it  appears  that  he  was 
appointed  March  29,  1762,  surveyor  of  highways;  March  28,  1763, 
fence  viewer;  with  his  brothers  and  cousin  Benning  Brackett,  signed 


388  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

February  i,  1768,  petition  for  school.  It  appears  from  the  probate 
records  that  he  shared  in  the  division  of  his  father's  estate.  It  is 
thought  by  the  writer  that  he  was  the  John  Brackett  who  died  before 
1691,  in  middle  life,  on  Peak's  island.  The  island  at  the  time  was 
owned  by  an  uncle  of  John  Brackett,  viz.,  Anthony  Brackett,  whose 
son  Thomas,  about  the  age  of  John,  lived  on  the  island.  It  .will  be 
observed  that  there  is  no  disparity  in  the  meager  fact  we  have  to  pre- 
clude the  identity  of  the  one  with  the  other.      If  identical  he  was  the 

John  Brackett  who  married  Sarah ;  upon  his  death  she  removed 

to  Wellfleet,  Mass.,  where  the  census  of  1790  shows  her  dwelling  with 
one  male  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years.     Issue: 
1.     Samuel.     See  family  11. 


SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jeremiah. 

Jeremiah  Brackett  was  born  May  19,  1764,  in  New  Market,  where 
he  dwelt  until  his  death  March  7,  1816;  was  a  farmer;  married  Sep- 
tember 25,  1 791,  Polly  Smart,  born  January  7,  1768;  she  survived  her 
husband.     Issue: 

1.  Polly,  b.  4  Mar.,  1793;  mar.  14  Nov.,  1814,  David  Dearborn; 
lived  in  Gilmanton,  N.  H.;  d.  2  May,  1836.  Issue:  Six  or  more  chil- 
dren. 

2.  Abigail,  b.  28  Mar.,  1795;  d.  28  Oct.,  1798. 

3.  Joseph,  b.  22  May,  1801.     See  family  12. 

4.  Joshua,  b.  25  Oct.,  1805.      See  family  13. 

5.  Jeremiah,    b.    3    Sept.,     1807;   mar.    Hannah   T. ;   lived    in 

Georgetown,  Mass.;  she  d.  8  Oct.,  1861.     No  issue. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  March  6,  1774,  in  New  Market:  was  a 
blacksmith;  familiarly  referred  to  as  Black  John;  always  lived  in  New 
Market;  married  (perhaps  Mehitable)  Wiggin.     Issue: 

1.  John,  b.  in  Aug.,  1796.     See  family  14. 

2.  Martha,  mar.  22  Feb.,  1823,  Moses  Rumnev,  of  Effingham,  N. 
H. 

3.  Dau.,  who  mar.  Foss. 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born  April  28,  1779,  in  New  Market,  where 
he  lived  until  subsequently  to  his  marriage;  resided  in  Belfast,  Me.; 
was  there   in   18 10,    as  shown  by  census  of  that  year;   his  residence 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  389 

probably  commenced  from  an  earlier  date;  served  in  the  War  of  1812, 
as  a  private  in  Captain  Nathan  Swan's  company  under  command  of 
Jacob  Ulmer,  2nd  regiment,  1st  brigade,  10th  division  of  Massachu- 
setts militia,  in  state  service,  from  September  2  to  21,  1814;  stationed 
at  Belfast.  Appointed  May  4,  1808,  to  serve  on  school  commission  in 
Belfast;  was  a  farmer;  died  April  18,  1862,  in  Rockland,  Me.;  mar- 
ried March  26,  1802,  in  Lee,  N.  H.,  the  Rev.  Mr.  James  Osborne 
officiating,  Catharine  Janes,  of  Lee,  who  died  November  5,  1855. 
Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Addison,  b.  about  1804.     See  family  15. 

2.  Catherine,  b.  in  Belfast,  Me.;  mar.  Silas  Dilloway;  always  lived 
in  Belfast;  d.  about  1843.     Issue: 

1st.     James,  b.  about  1828;  never  mar. 

2nd.      Susan,  b.  about  1830;  mar.  Samuel  Colburn. 

3d.  Nathaniel,  b.  5  July,  1832,  in  Belfast;  is  a  carpenter;  resides 
in  Tamworth,  N.  H.;  mar.  7  Apr.,  1853,  Mary  E.  Colburn,  b.  5  Feb., 
1833,  dan.  of  John  and  wife,  Sally  Briar,  of  Wilton,  Me.;  served  in 
14th  Me.  vol.  inf.      Issue,  two  girls  who  d.  in  infancy. 

4th.  Roxey,  b.  about  1841;  mar.  Joseph  Stevens;  home,  in 
Maitland,  Mo. 

3.  Sabrina,  b.  about  1802;  is  dec;  mar.  15  Nov.,  1830,  Charles 
Rhoades,  a  farmer,  b.  in  1812,  d.  in  1866,  son  of  Thomas  and  wife, 
Mary  Stetson.     Issue: 

1st.      Mary,  b.  in  1822;   d.  in  1859. 

2nd.     Ralph  F.,  b.  in  1823;  mar.  Angeline  Brown;  d.  in  1872. 

3d.  Almatia  A.,  b.  in  Dec,  1836;  mar.  in  Aug.,  1862,  Gusta- 
vius  A.  Safford,  b.  in  Sept.,  1836,  d.  in  Feb.,  1891,  son  of  James  P. 
and  wife,  Mary  Gilkey,  of  Hope,  Me.;  home,  in  Rockland,  Me. 
Issue: 

I.     Clarence  R.,  b.  4  May,  1869;   d.  13  Mar.,  1884. 

4th.     Charles  E.,  b.  in  1838;   mar.  Fannie  Elwell. 

Also  three  children  who  d.  in  infancy. 

4.  Nathaniel,  b.  about  1806;  never  mar. 

5.  John  S.,  b.  about  181 1.     See  family  16. 

6.  Sarah  Ann,  b.  13  July,  1818,  in  Belfast,  Me.;  mar.  5  Nov., 
1843,  Hector  M.  Rhoades,  sea  captain,  b.  4  Feb.,  1817,  d.  26  Dec, 
1874,  son  of  Thomas  and  wife,  Mary  Stetson,  of  Northport,  Me.;  she 
d.  14  Apr.,  1 891;  home,  in  Rockland.     Issue: 

1st.  Eugene  A.,  b.  18  Apr.,  1857,  in  Rockland;  mar.  14  Nov., 
1895,  Helen  C.  Guyette,  b.  26  Mar.,  1862,  dau.  of  William  H.  and  wife, 
Sarah  M.  Hall,  of  Glens  Falls,  N.  Y.;  is  a  telegraph  operator;  home, 
in  Rockland.     No  issue. 

Also  four  children  who  d.  in  infancy. 

7.  Joshua,  Jr.,  b.  about  1817;  was  living  in  1850. 

8.  Emily,  d.  young  and  unmar. 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Benjamin. 

Benjamin  Brackett  was  born  March  23,  1784,  in  New  Market, 
where  he  always  lived;  was  a  farmer;  married  Mary  Chapman,  (see 
fam.  i,  this  div. ).     Issue,  all  born  in  New  Market: 


390  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Mary  Ann,  mar.  Benjamin  Philpot;    is  dec. 

2.  Paul,  a  tailor  in  Dover;  d.  at  age  of  25  years  unmar. 

3.  John,  never  mar.;  is  dee. 

4.  Sarah,  lived  in  Lynn;  d.  young  unmar. 

5.  Arthur,  b.  about  1826;  a  farmer  in  New  Market;  never  mar.;  is 
dec. 

(J.     Joshua  S.,  b.  18  Feb.,  1820.     See  family  17. 

7.  Elizabeth,    mar.    ( 1st)    Gray    Smith;    (2nd) Voight;   had 

sou  Louis,  who  lives  in  New  York  city.. 

8.  Benjamin  Franklin,  a  shoemaker  in  Lynn;  mar.  Bubere.     Issue: 
1st.     John,  who  lived  in  North  Woburn,  Mass. 

2nd.      Mary,  who  mar. 

3d.  A  dau.,   who  mar.   C.   F.   Heath;  lived  in  Jamaica  Plains, 
Mass. 

4th.  A  dau.,  who  mar.  Walter  Porter;  home,  in  Lynn.  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  3.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Ichabod,  Levi. 

Levi  Brackett  was  born  in  New  Market,  N.  H.;  shortly  after  his 
marriage  he  removed  to  Caledonia  county,  Vermont,  where  he  died  a 
young  man,  leaving  surviving  a  widow,  with  several  children.  For 
her  second  husband  the  widow  married  Joel  Fletcher  (1st  wife  was 
Lucy  Hubbard  who  died  September  24,  1814);  two  of  his  daughters 
married  her  son  Hilton  Brackett.  Levi  Brackett  was  a  farmer;  mar- 
ried in  Canterbury,  N.  H.,  Mary  Haines;  she  was  born  July  14,  1773, 
died  January  14,  1853,  was  daughter  of  Samuel  Haines;  he  was  born 
August  26,  1749.  in  Greenland,  N.  H.;  died  October  29,  1838,  in  Can- 
terbury, N.  H.;  outlived  all  his  brothers  and  his  sons.  In  1775, 
enlisted  in  the  Continental  army  in  Captain  Jeremiah  Clough's  com- 
pany, Colonel  Poor's  regiment;  was  corporal  and  received  four  pounds 
for  military  coat  promised  by  the  colony  of  N.  H.;  served  two  months 
and  ten  days;  was  obliged  to  sign  the  pay-roll  with  a  cross,  having 
lost  a  thumb.  Enlisted  in  the  Northern  army,  Continental  service, 
was  mustered  July  2,  1776,  in  Captain  James  Shepherd's  company; 
was  at  one  time  a  lieutenant;  by  trade,  a  blacksmith;  was  detailed  to 
take  charge  of  the  shoeing  of  the  horses.  Married  July  9,  1772,  Han- 
nah Johnson  (born  December  22,  1749,  in  Rowley,  Mass.,  died  Feb- 
ruary 13,  1 813,  in  Canterbury)  was  son  of  Abner.  He  was  born  in 
Greenland,  in  1724,  removed  to  Oxford,  N.  H.,  then  to  Canterbury, 
died  in  1795,  married  July  27,  1746,  in  Hampton,  N.  H.,  Sarah 
Weeks,  was  son  of  Matthias;  he  was  born  in  Greenland  about  1680, 
died  in  1771,  married  prior  to  May  26,  1726,  Hannah  Johnson  (of 
Rowley,  who  died  May  4,  1755,  daughter  of  John  Johnson,  a  miller,  of 
Greenland,  and  wife,  Hannah  Lewis)  was  son  of  Matthias;  he  was 
born  in  1630,  in  Portsmouth,  N.  H.,  ( Strawberry  Bank ) ,  died  in  the 
winter  of  1688-9,  married  December  28,  1671,  Jane  Brackett  (daugh- 
ter of  Anthony  the  immigrant)  was  son  of  Samuel;  he  was  born  in 
161 1,  in  England,  at  fifteen  years  of  age  was  apprenticed  to  John 
Cogswell,  of  Westbury,  Wiltshire,  Eng.,  a  cloth  manufacturer,  after 
having  served  nine  years  he  came  to  New  England  in  1635,  with  Mr. 
Cogswell  in  the  ship    "Angel  Gabriel"    which    sailed   from    King's 


SAMUEL,     OF    NEW    MARKET  391 

Roads,  Bristol,  Eng.,  June  4,  and  from  Milford  Haven,  Wales,  on 
June  22,  1635,  served  one  year  at  Ipswich  with  Mr.  Gogswell,  then 
went  to  Dover,  N.  H.  In  1638,  he  returned  to  England  where 
on  April  1,  1638,  he  was  married  to  Elinor  Neate  in  the  church  at 
Dilton,  Wiltshire,  where  he  had  previously  lived;  died  in  1686. 

Sarah  Weeks  was  baptized  in  1727,  in  Greenland;  was  daughter  of 
Walter  Weeks,  born  in  1706,  died  in  1744,  married  about  1726,  his  cou- 
sin, Comfort  Weeks,  (died  in  December,  1786,  was  daughter  of  Cap- 
tain Joshua  Weeks,  born  June  30,  1674,  died  June  13,  1758,  and  wife. 
Comfort  Hubbard),  was  son  of  Captain  Samuel,  born  in  1670,  died  in 
1746,  a  farmer  in  Greenland,  married  Elinor  Haines,  was  son  of 
Leonard;  he  was  of  Greenland  and  Portsmouth,  was  baptized  in  1639, 
died  in  Greenland  in  1707,  married  Mary  Haines  (born  in  Dover  in 
March,  1667,  daughter  of  Samuel)  was  sou  of  John  Wyke  (Weeks)  of 
Moreton,  Somoset  county,  Eng. 

Elinor  Haines  (Mrs.  Samuel  Weeks)  was  born  August  23,  1675, 
died  in  1725,  was  daughter  of  Samuel  Haines;  he  was  born  in  Dover, 
died  at  the  age  of  forty-three  in  Greenland,  married  January  9,  1673, 
Mary  Fifield;  she  was  probably  the  daughter  of  Giles  Fifield  and  wife, 
Mary  Perkins. 

Comfort  Hubbard  (Mrs.  Joshua  Weeks)  was  born  January  17, 
1681,  in  Salisbury,  Mass.:  was  daughter  of  Richard;  he  was  born 
about  if>45,  died  June  26,  17 19,  married  Martha  Allen  (born  in  Salis- 
bury in  164').  died  there  October  4,  1718,  daughter  of  William  Allen 
and  wife,  Ann,  daughter  of  Richard  Goodale  and  wife,  Dorothy,  of 
Yarmouth,  Norfolk,  Eng.,  and  came  to  Newbury,  Mass.,  in  1638), 
was  son  of  Richard;  he  was  born  about  1620,  in  Surrey  county,  Eng., 
died  in  1666,  married  Hannah  Parker  of  the  Massachusetts  Bay 
colony.      Issue: 

1.  .Samuel  H..  b.  in  1794.      See  family  18. 

2.  Jeremiah  C,  b.  8  Jan.,  1796.     See  family  19. 

3.  Hilton,  1).  s  Jan..   1798.     See  family  20. 

4.  Haines,  b.  in  1800;  d.  1805. 

5.  Ira,  b.  20  June,  1S04.     See  family  21. 

6.  Anson,  b.  about  1809.     See  family  22. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family  No.  3.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
,  Ichabod,  Ichabod. 

Ichabod  Brackett  was  born  in  New  Market,  N.  H.;  the  year  of 
his  birth  has  not  been  learned;  he  was  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years 
in  1790,  which  year  he  was  a  member  of  his  father's  household  in 
Canterbury,  N.  H.,  as  shown  by  the  census  of  1790.  When  a  young 
man  he  removed  to  Salina,  N.  Y.,  and  acquired  a  large  fortune 
for  his  day.  He  died  in  Salina  while  still  a  young  man.  Married 
Artimissa  Waterhouse.     Issue: 

1.     Oscar  B.,  b.  22  Mar.,  1812.     See  family  23. 

-.  Cyril  Hunt.  He  removed  to  Tennessee;  no  information  has  been 
secured  as  to  his  descendants. 

3.  Edward  H.     See  family  24. 

4.  William  W.      Perhaps  d.  umnar. 

5.  Marv  Hilton,  who  d.  unmar. 


39_!  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
John,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Braekett  was  born  about  1780;  his  father  died  on  Peak's 
island  when  the  son  was  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years.  LTpon  the 
death  of  his  father,  his  mother  removed  to  Wellfleet,  Mass.  By  one 
of  his  descendants,  the  writer  was  informed  that  Samuel  and  his 
mother  were  "brought  to  Wellfleet  or  North  Eastham  (the  adjoining 
town),  by  one  of  the  coasting  captains  of  that  day,  in  whose  family 
she  lived  until  the  marriage  of  her  son."  The  census  of  1790  ( 1791 ) 
shows  the  mother  a  resident  of  Wellfleet  and  one  male  under  the  age 
of  sixteen  years  living  in  the  house  with  her.  He  removed  to 
Eastham,  Mass.,  where  he  died.  Married  Polly  or  Mary  Cobb.  The 
mother  and  the  young  wife  did  not  get  along  well  together,  and  the 
former  returned  to  her  people  in  Maine.     Issue: 

1.  Samuel,  lost  at  sea  prior  to  1845,  leaving  surviving  a  widow 
and  a  son  Gorham.  The  widow  married  a  Kuowles  and  the  son 
adopted  his  stepfather's  name,  and  was  known  as  Gorham  Braekett 
Knowles.  The  latter  became  a  famous  sea  captain,  commanded  some 
of  the  largest  and  finest  ships  of  thirty  years  ago  and  was  a  commo- 
dore in  the  Hastings  fleet;  he  died  about  1888,  in  San  Francisco. 
His  widow  and  two  daughters  reside  in  Oakland,  Cal. 

2.  Elkanah,  b.  29  Aug.,  1808.     See  family  25. 

3.  William  D.,  b.  in  181 2.     See  family  26. 

4.  Gorham,  b.  in  1816.     See  family  27. 

5.  Elijah  C,  b.  20  Jan.,  1817.     See  family  28. 

(>.  Theophilus,  living  in  1902,  in  Swampscott,  Mass;  has  sons, 
Charles  and  Frank.     No  further  record. 

7.  Mercy  E.,  b.  7  Mar.,  1822,  in  Eastham,  Mass.;  d.  5  June,  1895; 
mar.  22  Mar.,  1838,  Nathaniel  C.  Wiley,  b.  in  1S11,  d.  in  Nov.,  1892, 
in  Wakefield,  Mass.;  resided  in  Eastham,  Melrose,  Wakefield,  Lynn 
and  Swampscott,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Ann,  b.  23  July,  1844;  d.  13  Oct..  1844. 
2nd.     Gilbert  Adam,  b.  twin  with  Ann;  d.  28  Apr.,  1861. 
3d.     Henry    Edward,   b.    21    May,    1846,    in    Swampscott;    mar. 
Fannie  V.  Watkins  (Bradley);   resides  in  Wakefield,  Mass. 

4th.  Alisor  R.,  b.  1  Sept.,  1850;  mar.  Hattie  Greenleaf;  resides 
in  Wakefield,  Mass. 

5th.     Lyman  Ambrose,  b.  10  Jan.,  1854;   d.  10  Oct..  1854. 
6th.     Ethan  Allen,  b.  22  Oct..  1S58;  d.  22  Aug..  1859. 
S.      Polly,     mar.     Nathan     Harding;    had     Henry,     who     lives    in 
Eastham,  Mass.:   dan.,  who  mar.  George  Brown,  and  dau.,  who  mar. 
Charles  Palmer;   the  daughters  live  in  Lynn.  Mass. 
'.».      .Sarah,  who  d.  without  issue. 

10.  Gilbert  A.,  b.  26  May,  1830.     See  family  29. 

11.  Charlotte,  who  d.  without  issue. 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  393 

EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jeremiah,  Joseph. 

Joseph  Brackett  was  born  May  22,  1801;  resided  in  Lowell, 
Mass.;  was  killed  in  1842,  in  an  accident  on  Newburyport  bridge, 
Eastern  railroad;  at  the   same  time  his  wife  was  severely  injured. 

Married  November  22, ,  Elizabeth  Brackett  (see  fam.  3,  div.  17). 

She  married    (2nd)   in   1845,   Samuel  Fellows,   of  Franklin,   N.  H.; 
died  December  4,  1897.     Issue: 

1.  Elizabeth  C,   b.    1  May,    1825,   in  New  Market;  mar.   Gayton 
Ellingwood,  who  d.  in  Lowell,  6  Feb.,  1873.     Issue: 

1st.     Edward  \Y\,   mar.   Louise  Hoak;    (2nd)    Martha   Coburn. 
Children:  dau.  by  first  wife;   Dorothy;   Gayton;   Foster;   Edward  P. 
2nd.     George  B.,  who  mar.  Nellie  Carlton.     No  issue. 
3d.     Elizabeth,  mar.  Frank  J.  Fuller,  nephew  of  Jason. 

2.  Thomas  J.,  who  lives  in  Ferndale,  Cal. 

3.  Mary  S.,  b.  9  Jan.,    1831;  mar.  20  Jan.,    1857,  Jason  Fuller; 
home,  in  Lowell,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Blanch,  who  d.  22  Aug.,  1863,  aged  13  months. 

4.  Frances  Jane,  b.    20  June,    1832;  mar.  Theodore   E.   Parker; 
she  d.  27  July,  1898;   lived  in  Lowell.     Issue: 

1st.     Theodore  Edson. 

5.  Martha  Folsom,  b.  23  June,  1833;  d.  in  infancy. 


FAMILY   NO.    13. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Jeremiah,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born  October  25,  1805,  in  New  Market; 
died  October  29,  1854;  always  lived  in  New  Market;  married  Mary 
Dame,  born  July  6,  1798,  in  Newington,  N.  H.,  died  August  4,  1876. 
Issue: 

1.  Hannah,  b.  26  Feb.,  1829,  in  Stratham;  is  unmar.;  home,  in 
New  Market. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  20  July,  1837,  in  New  Market;  mar.  Sarah  B. 
Wiggin,  b.  29  Sept.,  1832.  in  North  Hampton.  Served  in  civil  war 
as  a  private  in  co.  E,  13th  N.  H.  vol.  inf.;  enlisted  8  Aug.,  1862; 
discharged  10  June,  1865.     Home,  in  New  Market.     Issue: 

1st.     Sarah  B.  W.,  b.  27  Mar.,  1875. 

2nd.  Adopted  son,  Guy  W.,  b.  24  Mar.,  1875;  lives  in  Provi- 
dence, R.  I. 

FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  6.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 

Joshua,  John,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  in  August,  1796,  in  New  Market;  was  a 

tanner  and  boot-maker;   killed  December  21,  1826,  by  a  fall  in  a  mill 

in  New  Market;  married  Elizabeth  Murray,  born  February  14,  1799, 


394  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

died  in  June,  1849;  she  married  (2nd)  ■ Chesswell;   married  (3d) 

Rev.  Mr.   Asa  Merrill,  of  Stratham;  was  daughter  of  Timothy  and 
wife,  Elizabeth  Chapman.     Issue: 

1.  Elizabeth,  b.  19  Mar.,  1820;  d.  19  Aug.,  1846. 

2.  John,  b.  14  Mar.,  1821.     See  family  30. 

3.  David,  b.  27  May,  1822.     See  family  31. 

4.  Margaret,  who  d.  at  the  age  of  2  years. 

5.  Eben,  b.  26  Dec.,  1826,  in  New  Market;  is  a  painter  and 
decorator;  mar.  20  Oct.,  1854,  Wilthia  Prior,  of  Kittery,  Me.,  dau. 
of  John  and  wife,  Judith  Lemon;  home,  in  Portsmouth.     Issue: 

1st.  Elizabeth,  b.  26  Sept.,  1856,  in  Portsmouth;  mar.  2  Oct., 
1879,  Horace  B.  Parker,  of  Kittery,  Me.,  son  of  William  G.  and 
wife,  Lydia  Hall.     Issue: 

I.  William  Brackett,  b.  3  June,  1885,  in  Kittery. 

II.  Edward  Cooking,  b.  28  Sept.,  1889. 


FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From  Family  Xo.  7.     Descent:     Anthony.  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  Addison. 

Addison  Brackett  was  born  in  1804,  in  Belfast,  Me.;  was  a  lum- 
berman and  farmer;  married  December  25,  1826,  Priscilla  Shibbles, 
born  in  1804,  died  in  1881,  daughter  of  Thomas  and  wife,  Sally  Hol- 
brook,  of  Camden,  Me.;  he  died  about  1883.  Issue,  not  in  order  of 
birth: 

1.  Sabrina,  b.  in  1835;  mar.  (1st)  Frank  Hicks;  (2nd)  David 
Knowles.     Issue: 

1st.     Frank  D.,  who  d.  about  1877. 

2.  Lucy  W.,  who  mar.  George  Wetherbee.  Children:  Archie; 
Charles;   Mary;   Willie. 

3.  Mary,  b.  in  183S;  mar.  Frank  Marriner.     Issue: 

1st.  Mellie  M.,  who  mar.  Clark;  home,  in  Rockland,  Me. 

2nd.  Lillia,  who  mar.  Bicknell;  home,  in  Rockland. 

3d.  Hattie  C,  who  mar.  Knight;  home,  in  Belfast,  Me. 

4th.  Ella. 

5th.  Willie. 

6th.  Lizzie  H.,  who  mar.  Hahn;  home,  in  Rockland. 

4.  Deborah  Janes,  who  mar.  Calvin  Batchelder.     Issue: 
1st.  Frederick,  who  d.  about  1885. 

2nd.     Carrie  E.,  mar.  Mooney;   d.  in  1872.     Issue: 
I.     Appie,  of  Bucksport,  Me. 

5.  Caroline  W.,  b.  17  July,  1829;  mar.  (rst)  Eleazer  Edgecomb; 
(2nd)  Isaac  Bowen;    (3d)  Alfred  Walton.     Issue: 

1st.     Hattie  M.  Edgecomb,  who  mar.  Eugene  Thomas.     Issue: 

I.  Ethel  E. 

II.  Edith  H.,   who  mar.  Ernest  Mahony,  of  Boston.     Child, 
Majorie  Ethel. 

III.  Eugene  E. 

6.  Martha  A.,  b.  20  Sept.,  1834,  in  Belfast,  Me.;  mar.  8  Nov., 
1882,  Elijah  L.  Knowlton,  b.  27  Nov.,  1833,  son  of  John  K.  and  wife, 
Eliza  Luce,  of  Appleton,  Me.;  home,  in  Belfast.     No  issue. 

7.  George,  b.  in  1844;   d.  about  1854. 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  395 

FAMILY    NO.   16. 

From  Family  No.  7.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Joshua,  John  S. 

John  S.  Braekett  was  born  in  Belfast  about  181 1;  was  a  farmer; 
always  lived  in  Belfast;  married  Fidelia  E.  Shibbles.     Issue: 

1.  George  E.,  b.  28  Jan.,  1838,  in  Belfast;  editor  and  publisher 
of  "Maine  Temperance  Record"  (monthly),  and  "The  Girls'  Home" 
(quarterly);  has  been  register  of  deeds,  secretary  of  state  senate,  and 
for  twenty-five  years,  secretary  of  the  grand  lodge  of  Good  Templars. 
Mar.  Elizabeth  L.  Brown,  b.  31  Mar.,  1852,  dau.  of  Moses  M.  and 
wife,  Harriet  Atwood  Newell,  of  Belfast.     No  issue. 

2.  Rufus  E.,  b.  about  1841;  served  in  co.  I,  26th  Me.  vol.  inf.; 
enlisted  11  Oct.,  1862;  d.  2  July,  1863,  in  Brashear,  La. 

•'!.     Sabra  E.,  b.  about  1843. 

4.  Mary  E.,  b.  about  1846. 

5.  Albert  E.,  lives  near  Belfast. 

FAMILY  NO.     17. 

From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Joshua,  Benjamin,  Joshua  S. 

Joshua  Shackford  Braekett  was  born  February  18,  1820;  married 
(1st)  March  23,  1863,  Fanny  E.  Batchelder,  of  Arlington,  Vt.,  who 
died  June  24,  1872,  daughter  of  Jacob  (Jacob,  Benjamin,  John,  John, 
Joseph),  born  in  1790,  died  February  12,  1843,  and  second  wife, 
Sarah  Hurd  Barney;  married  (2nd)  in  1881,  Annie  C.  Chamberlain, 
who  died  in  1882.  Mr.  Braekett  died  February  3,  1888,  in  Petaluma, 
Cal.,  to  which  state  he  immigrated  in  1849;  the  place  of  his  nativity 
was  New  Market,  X.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Frank  Orleans,  b.  20  Dec,  1865,  in  Petaluma,  Cal.;  resides  in 
San  Francisco. 

2.  Joshua  B.,  b.  4  Aug.,  1867.     See  family  32. 

3.  Fannie  Eliza,  b.  13  July,  1870;  mar.  4  Jan.,  1893,  Jesse  Isaac 
Jewell,  of  Petaluma;  home,  in  Trenton,  Sonoma  co.,  Cal.     Issue: 

1st.     Jesse  Braekett,  b.  14  Oct.,  1894. 
2nd.      Fanita  Ridley,  b.  25  Nov.,  1895. 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From  Family  No.  9.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 

Ichabod,  Levi,  Samuel  H. 

Samuel  Haines  Braekett  was  born  in   1794,   in  Vermont;  died  in 

1867;  was  a  farmer  in  Caledonia  county,   Vermont;    spent  his   last 

days  with  his  son,  in  Franktown,  Col.     Married  Amy  Hanson.     Issue: 

1.  Ozro,  b.  22  Oct.,  1812.     See  family  33. 

2.  Levi  A.,  shipped  as  cabin  boy  on  a  whaling  vessel  and  was 
drowned  at  sea. 

3.  Caroline,  mar.  Levi  Mossier;  she  d.  in  Vermont;  children 
Iwere  a  boy,  who  was  killed  in  the  army  during  the  civil  war,  and 
three  daughters,  two  of  whom  live  in  Vermont,  and  one  in  Canada. 

4.  •  Lucy,  mar.  Orin  Albes;  settled  in  Iowa.  Descendants  live 
near  Charles  city,  Iowa,  and  in  Stillwater,  Minn. 


396  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From  Family  No.  9.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Ichabod,  Levi,  Jeremiah  C. 

Jeremiah  Clough  Brackett  was  born  January  8,  1796,  in 
Wheeloek,  Vt.;  died  August  22,  1849,  in  Watertown,  Wis.;  a  farmer; 
removed  from  Vermont  to  Wisconsin  in  1842;  married  in  1824, 
Uranah  Mathewson.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Jane,  b.  30  Oct.,  1825,  in  Wheeloek,  Vt.;  mar.  29  Aug., 
1842,  Luther  A.  Cole,  b.  1  Nov.,  181 2,  d.  23  June,  1880,  in  Denver, 
Col.,  son  of  Ebenezer  and  wife,  Martha  West,  of  Charleston,  Vt.; 
was  engaged  in  milling  and  mercantile  business;  in  1849,  was  mem- 
ber of  assembly  in  Wisconsin;  since  marriage  resided  in  Watertown 
to  1880;  Milwaukee,  Wis.,  to  1892;  Denver,  Col.,  to  1895;  Beloit, 
Wis.,  to  1899;   Seattle,  Wash.,  since.     Issue: 

1st.     Martha,  b.  5  Feb.,  1844;  d.  11  June,  1845. 
2nd.     Uranah  B.,  b.  19  Feb.,  1847;  mar.  9  June,  1868,  Frederick 
Loren  Clark;  home,  in  Seattle,  Wash.     Issue: 

I.  Guy  Frederick,  b.  28  Mar.,  1872,  in  Lawrence,  Kas. 

II.  Marion  Uranah,  b.  13  Jan.,  1876,  in  Jackson,  Mich. 
3d.     Guy  Gerard,  b.  15  Sept.,  1849;  d.  2  Jan.,  1853. 

4th.  Guy  Luther,  b.  28  Oct.,  1857;  mar.  in  Sept.,  1880,  Isabel 
Caswell;  home,  in  Missouri.     Issue: 

I.  Leda  I.,  b.  17  Feb.,  1882;  d.  4  Nov.,  1882,  in  Ft.  Atkinson, 
Wis. 

II.  Meda  C,  b.  8  Sept.,  1886,  in  Ft.  Atkinson,  Wis. 

III.  Marie   Elizabeth,   b.    19   Nov.,    1890,    in   Ft.   Atkinson, 
Wis. 

2.  Maria  M.,  mar.  Albert  L.  Collins. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From  Family  No.  9.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Ichabod,  Levi,  Hilton. 
Hilton  Brackett  was  born  January  8,  1798,  in  Wheeloek,  Vt.; 
died  January  30,  1872,  in  Charleston,  Vt.;  a  farmer  and  Baptist  min- 
ister; resided  in  Lyndon  and  Charleston,  Vt.,  where  he  held  several 
town  offices;  was  licensed  to  preach  January  26,  1844,  and  was 
ordained  July  12,  1846.  Married  (1st)  September  10,  1833,  Olive 
Fletcher,  born  July  8,  1803,  died  May  13,  1837,  daughter  of  Joel  and 
wife,  Lucy  Hubbard,  of  Charleston,  Vt.;  married  (2nd)  March  15, 
1 84 1,  Ruth  H.  Fletcher,  born  June  30,  1805,  died  November  15, 
1875,  sister  of  his  first  wife.     Issue: 

1.  George  W.,  b.  29  May,  1842.     See  family  34. 

2.  Mary  F.,  b.  11  June,  1847;  mar.  (1st)  David  Snow,  and  (2nd) 
G.  W.  Holbrook;  home,  in  Wellfleet,  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.   21. 

From  Family  No.  9.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Ichabod,  Levi,  Ira. 

Ira  Brackett  was  born  June  20,  1804,  in  Wheeloek,  Vt.;  died 
September  12,  1868;  a  contractor;  his  contracts  were  for  stone  work 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  397 

for  foundations  and  great  bridge  piers  and  abutments.  His  business 
led  him  to  move  from  place  to  place,  from  Charleston,  Vt.,  to  Lowell, 
Mass.,  about  1846;  to  Northampton,  Mass.,  about  1848;  to  Lansing- 
burg,  N.  Y.,  about  1850;  to  Rockford,  111.,  about  1851;  to  Charles 
city,  Iowa,  in  1855;  was  for  eight  years  a  member  of  the  legislature 
of  Vermont,  and  also  held  minor  offices  in  Charleston,  Vt.  Married 
May  10,  1830,  at  Charleston,  Vt.,  Clarinda  Nye,  born  March  24, 
181 1,  died  May  5,  1895,  danghter  of  Lewis  Nye  and  wife,  Has- 
kell.    Issue: 

1.  Oscar  Fitzerlan,  b.  22  Aug.,  1831,  in  Charleston,  Vt.;  mar. 
(1st)  in  December,  1853,  in  Janesville,  Wis.,  Zemanda  Warn;  (2nd) 
perhaps  in  1865,  in  Galena,  111.,  Lottie  Hardt.  Issue,  all  by  second 
marriage: 

1st.     Clarinda,   is  mar.;  resides  in  Denver,  Col. 

2nd.     Walter,  is  dec. 

3d.     Fred,   is  mar.;   resides  in  Waverly,  la. 

2.  Anson  H.,  b.  4  Oct.,  1833,  in  West  Charleston,  Vt.;  a  farmer 
and  stock  dealer;  has  resided  in  Charles  city,  Iowa,  since  Aug., 
1855,  except  seven  years  when  he  resided  in  Nashua,  la.;  was 
mayor  of  Nashua  two  terms,  from  1885  to  1889,  and  has  been  alder- 
man several  terms  in  Charles  city.  Mar.  17  Nov.,  1855,  Martha  A. 
Oxford,  b.  29  Apr.,  1830,  dau.  of  James  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Jolly,  of 
Covington,  Ind.     No  issue. 

3.  Sarah  Ellen,  b.  15  Oct.,  1848,  in  Northampton,  Mass.;  mar.  1 
Dec,  1868,  at  Charles  city,  la.,  Hervey  A.  Humphrey,  b.  20  Sept., 
1842,  in  Illinois,  son  of  Thomas  J.  and  wife,  Caroline  A.  Cooke;  home, 
in  Minneapolis.  Mr.  Humphrey  served  in  civil  war  in  co.  A,  8th  111. 
vol.  cav.,  enlisted  a  private,  9  June,  1861,  mustered  out  22  July, 
1865,  with  rank  of  captain;  removed  from  Iowa  to  South  Dakota  in 
1882,  to  Minneapolis  in  1902.  During  the  Spanish  war  was  adjutant 
general  of  South  Dakota;   a  farmer,  now  an  editor.     Issue: 

1st.  Alfred  Ashleigh,  b.  14  June,  1870;  resides  in  Yankton, 
S.  D. 

2nd.  Mary  Alice,  b.  5  Aug.,  1874;  mar.  Albert  Whipple  Morse; 
home,  in  Faulkton,  S.  D.     Issue: 

I.  George  Humphrey,  b.  19  Sept.,  1898. 

II.  Albert  Whipple,  b.  30  June,  1900. 

3d.  Ira  Hale,  b.  13  Oct.,  1876;  address,  Apartado  2263,  City  of 
Mexico;  has  been  in  Mexico  for  ten  years;  is  associate  editor  of  the 
"Mexican  Herald,"  one  of  the  great  daily  papers  of  the  republic. 

4th.     James  H.  K.,  b.  2  June,  1879;  resides  in  Minneapolis. 

5th.     Clarinda  Amanda,  b.  25  Jan.,  1890. 

FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From  Family  No.  9.     Descent:    Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Samuel, 
Ichabod,  Levi,  Anson. 

Anson  Brackett  was  born  about  1809,  in  Wheelock,  Vt.;  died 
December  11,  1855,  in  Gainesville,  Ala.;  a  physician,  a  graduate  of 
medical  college  in  Burlington,  Vt.  Began  practice  in  North  Dan- 
ville; removed  to  Lyons,  N.  Y.;  thence  to  Haverhill,  N.  H.,  where 
he  remained  for  six  years.     Displayed  in  early  practice  an  aptitude 


398  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

and  skill  in  surgery,  and  while  in  Haverhill  performed  some  difficult 
operations;  he  amputated  the  leg  of  Frank  B.  Palmer  and  collabo- 
rated with  Palmer  in  his  developing  the  first  artificial  leg  which  after- 
wards made  Palmer  famous.  He  went  to  Gainesville,  Ala.,  in  hopes 
that  change  of  climate  would  improve  the  health  of  his  invalid  wife; 
while  there  he  rose  to  be  one  of  the  first  surgeons  in  the  state.  Was 
an  uncompromising  temperance  man,  a  principle  to  which  he  adhered 
in  his  practice  as  well  as  in  life.  Married  (ist)  Mary  Chamberlain, 
of  Lyndon,  Yt.,  who  died  in  Gainesville;  married  (2nd)  in  1853, 
Charlotte  A.  Billings,  born  June  10,  1827,  died  March  25,  1903, 
daughter  of  Elisha  and  wife,  Katherine  Perrine,  of  Cambridge, 
N.  V.     Issue: 

1.  Anson  Russell,  b.  17  June,  1855,  in  Gainesville,  Ala.;  a  phy- 
sician and  surgeon  of  Charles  city,  la.;  a  graduate  of  Pennsylvania 
Military  college  and  of  Ohio  Medical  college;  mar.  30  Dec,  1884, 
Emma  J.  Lewis,  b.  1  Mar.,  1856,  dau.  of  Samuel  A.  and  wife, 
Frances  M.  Thayer,  of  Milwaukee,  Wis.     Issue: 

1st.     Fletcher  Billings,  b.  22  Oct.,  1885;  d.  4  Jan.,  1886. 

2nd.     Anson  Wendell,  b.  7  July,  1887. 

3d.     Helen  Louise,  b.  21  June,  1889. 

4th.     Margaret  Rebecca,  b.  20  July,  1890. 

5th.     Ruth  Cutting,  b.  26  July,  1892. 

6th.     Russell  Lewis,  b.  28  Aug.,  1894. 


FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From  Family  No.   10.     Descent:     Anthony.  Thomas,  Joshua,   Sam- 
uel, Ichabod, Ichabod,  Oscar  B. 

Oscar  Berhnadotte  Brackett  was  born  March  22,  1812,  in  Salina, 
N.  Y.;  was  the  eldest  of  his  father's  family.  He  received  a  colle- 
giate education,  and  through  the  early  death  of  his  parents  he  and 
his  brothers  respectively,  came  into  the  possession  of  a  fortune,  upon 
acquiring  their  majority.  In  1844,  he  removed  to  Texas  and  in 
1845,  to  the  city  of  San  Antonio,  where  he  continued  to  reside  until 
his  death.  Though  he  had  parted  with  the  greater  portion  of  his 
fortune,  he  had  remaining  ample  means  for  his  business  enterprises, 
and  they  were  extensive  and  hazardous.  He  founded  the  town  of 
Brackettville  in  Kinney  county,  Texas;  this  was  in  1852,  but  a  few 
years  before  his  death.  In  1852,  the  region  in  Texas  west  of  San 
Antonio  was  little  better  than  a  wilderness,  and  San  Antonio  itself 
was  then  about  the  size  of  Brackettville  in  1887,  which,  with  fort 
Clark,  contained  1,500  inhabitants.  As  early  as  1834,  a  settlement 
had  been  attempted  at  Dolores,  in  Kinney  county  but  had  been  aban- 
doned because  of  trouble  with  the  Indians.  In  1852,  on  Las  Moras 
creek,  Mr.  Brackett  erected  a  trading  post  for  the  accommodation  of 
the  few  men  of  the  region.  During  the  same  year  the  construction 
of  fort  Clark,  by  the  government,  was  commenced  on  the  creek 
opposite  to  the  site  of  his  post.  Through  the  patronage  of  Mr. 
Brackett,  good  dwellings  were  erected  and  the  town  was  founded, 
now  the  county  seat  of  Kinney  county.  He  died  December  2,  1857. 
Long  after  his  death  articles  in  praise  of  his  social  qualities  and  busi- 
ness activities  and  enterprises  appeared   from  time  to  time  in  San 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  399 

Antonio  papers.  Married  May  16,  1833,  Emily  Wood,  youngest 
daughter  of  General  Thaddeus  M.  Wood,  of  Onondaga  (now  Syra- 
cuse), N.  Y.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Hilton,  b.  in  1833;  d.  unmar.  in  1883. 

2.  Emily  Wood,  b.  19  Nov.,  1834,  in  Salina,  N.  Y.;  mar.  in  1855 
Charles  F.  King,  of  San  Antonio,  Tex.,  b.  in  181 1,  d.  in  1869. 
Issue: 

1st.     Emily  Braekett,  b.  23  Feb.,  1857;   mar.   in   1873,  Fred  A. 
Cooler.     Issue: 

I.     Nannie  E.     II.   Floyd  B.     III.   Laura  C. 
2nd.     Mary  W.,  b.  in  1859;   is  dec. 

3d.     Charles  F.,   b.  22  Oct.,  1861;    resides  in  Long  Beach,  Cal. 
4th.     Sarah  S.,  b.  17  Mar.,  1865;  resides  in  San  Antonio,  Tex. 
5th.     Laura,  b.  in  1867;   d.  in  1876. 

3.  Sarah,  b.  in  1836;  mar.  Samuel  S.  Smith;  resides  in  San 
Antonio.     Child,  Thaddeus  W. 

•4.  Ellen,  b.  16  Aug.,  1843,  in  Syracuse,  N.  Y.;  mar.  6  Apr., 
1865,  Simeon  W.  Coolev,  who  d.  11  Dec,  1883,  son  of  Simeon  W. 
No  issue. 


FAMILY    NO.    24. 

From  Family  No.    10.      Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Ichabod,  Ichabod,  Edward  H. 

Edward  Hilton  Braekett  was  born  in  Salina,  N.  Y.;  removed  to 
La  Fayette,  Ind.  Colonel  Albert  G.  Braekett,  who  practiced  medi- 
cine about  1854  or  1855,  in  Logansport,  Ind.,  was  acquainted  with 
Edward  Hilton  Braekett.     Col.  Braekett  wrote  in  his  journal — 

"Edward  H.  Braekett,  of  La  Fayette,  Ind.,  gave  me  the  follow- 
ing particulars  respecting  his  family: 

Edward  H.  Braekett,  son  of  Ichabod,  Jr.,  who  was  the  son  of 
Ichabod,  Sr.,  who  resided  in  Vermont  and  was  at  one  time  a  sheriff. 
Simeon  was  the  oldest  son  of  Ichabod,  Sr.  Ichabod,  Jr.,  while  very 
young,  removed  from  Vermont  and  settled  at  Salina,  Onondaga 
county,  N.  Y.,  and  left  surviving  four  children,  all  sous,  three  only 
of  whom  are  now  living,  viz.: 

Oscar  B.  Braekett,  the  oldest,  who  now  resides  in  San  Antonio, 
Tex.;  Cyril  H.  Braekett,  the  next,  lives  in  Tennessee  and  Edward 
Hilton,  the  next,  resides  at  La  Fayette,  Ind.  The  sons  of  Ichabod, 
Jr.,  were  left  without  father  or  mother  quite  young,  with  large  for- 
tunes, all  of  which  have  been  spent  long  ago.  Edward  went  to  La 
Fayette  ten  years  ago  worse  than  nothing  pecuniarily,  read  law  and 
has  succeeded  reasonably  well.  Ichabod  Braekett,  Sr.,  married  a 
Miss  Hilton." 

A  later  entry  in  the  journal  reads — "Edward  H.  Braekett  died 
in  Chicago." 

Edward  H.  Braekett  married  Mary  A.  Crane  and  had  at  least 
one  child,  viz.,  Charles  E.,  born  February  6,  1847,  in  La  Fayette, 
Ind.,  who  resides  in  Chicago. 


400  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From  Family  No.  u.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  Elkanah. 

Klkanah  Braekett  was  born  August  29,  1808,  died  February  19, 
1891,  in  Eastham,  Mass.;  married  (1st)  Sally  Holbrook,  born  March 
8,  181 1,  in  Eastham,  died  September  19,  1834;  married  (2nd)  Paulina 
Cole,  born  February  21,  1815,  in  South  Wellfleet,  Mass.,  died  April 
20,  i860;  married  (3d)  Achsah  S.  Smith,  born  October  7,  1822,  in 
Brewster,  Mass.,  died  January  27,  1903.     Issue: 

1.  William  H.,  b.  18  Apr.,  1829;  d.  22  May,  1843. 

2.  Sarah  A.,  b.  25  Oct.,  1831;   d.  29  July,  1836. 

3.  Lucy  M.,  b.  26  Oct.,  1833;  d.  5  Dec,  1838. 

4.  Elkanah  C,  b.  15  June,  1836;  d.  17  Nov.,  1838. 

5.  Sarah  A.,  b.gjuly,  1838;  mar.  Timothy  Hatch;  d.  28  July,i86i. 

6.  Elkanah  C,  b.  6  Sept.,  1841.     See  family  35. 

7.  William  H.,  b.  25  Jan.,  1844.     See  family  36. 

8.  Zara  H.,  b.  8  Nov.,  1847;   mar.  Sarah  Green,  of  Melrose,  Mass. 

9.  Daniel  C,  b.  2  Jan.,  1850;  mar.  Katherine  Skidmore. 

10.  Richard  B.,  b.  16  Feb.,  1862;   d.  6  Sept.,  1862. 

11.  George  P.,  b.  26  Mar.,  1863. 

12.  Samuel  F.,  b.  22  Dec,  1864. 


FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From  Family  No.   11.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  William  D. 

William  Davis  Braekett,  at  different  times  in  his  busy  life,  a 
fisherman,  sea  captain,  country  merchant  and  farmer,  was  born  in 
1812,  in  Wellfleet,  Mass.  About  1838,  he  removed  to  Eondondeny, 
N.  H.,  and  from  thence  in  1842,  went  to  Swampscott,  Mass.,  where 
he  remained  until  1861.  Born  of  seafaring  family  he  early  in  life 
commenced  its  pursuit,  was  first  a  fisherman  and  then  a  sea  captain 
at  the  age  of  twenty-one  years.  From  his  sealife  he  retired  to  become 
a  country  merchant,  which  business  he  followed  with  success  in  Lon- 
donderry and  Swampscott,  to  i860.  In  that  year  he  went  on  a  farm 
in  Ipswich,  Mass.,  where  he  spent  his  remaining  days.  He  held 
many  responsible  town  and  church  offices  in  Swampscott  and  Ipswich. 
He   died   in  April,    1884.     Married   in    1837,    Almeria   Brown,   born 

about  1814,  died  in  1842,  daughter  of  Theadore  and  wife,  Mercy , 

of  Wellfleet;   married  (2nd)  in  1844,  H.  Matilda  Nisbett,  of  Swamp- 
scott, who  died  in  1883,  in  Ipswich.     Issue: 

1.  Sarah  A.,  b.   in  Aug.,    1838;   d.   in  Nov.,  1905,  in  Stoneham, 
Mass.;  mar.  Capt.  J.  W.  Snow;  had,  William  B. 

2.  William  D.,  b.  in  June,  1840.     See  family  37. 

3.  Charles  B.,  b.  in  1842;  d.  in  infancy. 
By  second  wife: 

4.  Almeria,  who  mar.  Charles  Brown,   of  Ipswich;  had  Walter; 
Cora. 

5.  Matilda   F.,    who    mar.    Andre    Woodbury,    of    Ipswich;  had, 
Charles;  Chester;   Clarence. 

6.  Sophronia  A.,  is  dec;   mar.  Fred  Davis,  of  Haverhill,  Mass. 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  401 

FAMILY    NO.    27. 

From  Family  No.   n.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  Gorham. 

Gorham  Braekett  was  born  in  1816,  in  Eastham,  Mass.;  died  in 
1880;  was  a  sea  captain;  resided  in  Eastham,  Swampscott  and 
Ipswich,  Mass.  Married  in  1837,  Eliza  Nesbitt,  born  in  1820,  died 
in  1880,  daughter  of  Moses  and  wife,  Hetty  Ellis.     Issue: 

1.  T.  Warren,  mar.  Elizabeth  A.  Porter;  resides  in  Swampscott, 
Mass. 

2.  Sophronia  A. 

3.  Samuel  Gorham,  b.  10  Oct.,  1842,  in  Swampscott;  resided  in 
Ipswich  from  1856  to  1900;  now  resides  in  Swampscott;  has  retired 
from  business.  Mar.  28  Apr.,  1870,  Louise  Adams,  b.  1  Jan.,  1850, 
dau.  of  Silsbee  and  wife,  Emeline  Patch,  of  Hamilton,  Mass. 


FAMILY    NO.    28. 

From  Family  No.   11.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  Elijah  C. 

Elijah  C.  Braekett  was  born  January  20,  1817;  died  May  11, 
1898;  a  cabinet  maker;  resided  in  and  around  Boston;  married  Bet- 
sey Galucia,  born  December  25,  1820,  in  Danvers,  Mass.,  died  Feb- 
ruary 25,  1872.     Issue: 

1.  Gilbert  O.,  b.  15  Aug.,  1839.      See  family  38. 

2.  Urbrey,  b.  10  Sept.,   1  s 4 2 ,  in  Boston;   d.  13  Dec,  1866. 

3.  Isabelle,  b.  17  July,  1846,  in  Boston;   d.  23  Jan.,  1864. 

4.  Lafayette,  b.  21  May,  1849,  in  Bridgton;   d.  15  Aug.,  1872. 

5.  Warren  A.,  b.  13  July,  1853.     See  family  39. 

7.     Elijah  F.,  b.  16  June,  1861,  in  Bridgton;  d.  15  Mar.,  1879. 


FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From  Family  No.   11.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  Gilbert  A. 

Gilbert  Adams  Braekett  was  born  May  26,  1830,  in  Wellfleet,. 
Mass.;  died  December  24,  1892;  a  dealer  in  dry  goods;  resided  in 
Swampscott,  Melrose,  and  Springfield,  Mass.,  in  the  order  named; 
married  March  4,  1858,  Alice  Boardman  Giles,  born  March  29,  1837, 
daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Jane  Brimblecorn,  of  Marblehead, 
Mass.     Issue: 

1.  Gilbert  H.,  b.  15  Jan.,  1859.     See  family  40. 

2.  John  Wesley,  b.  19  Sept.,  i860;  d.  13  Mar.,  1879. 

3.  Minnie  Alice,  b.   18  May,   1871;  mar.  Edward  Everett  Hans- 
com;  resides  at  Oak  Dane,  Philadelphia.     Issue: 

1st.     Alice  Elizabeth,  b.  28  June,  1898. 

4.  Walter  Abbott,  b.  23  Jan.,  1873;  resides  in  Boston. 


402  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    30. 

From  Family  No.   14.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  John,  John,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  March  14,  1821,  in  New  Market,  N.  H.; 
married  Martha  C.  Harmon,  of  Buxton,  Me.,  born  January  18,  1825. 
died  January  13,  1899;  when  a  boy  he  ran  away  to  sea,  made  several 
voyages;  mentions  having  met  a  Mr.  Brackett  at  Cape  de  Verd 
islands.     Issue: 

1.  William  A.,  b.  14  Jan.,  1848.     See  family  41. 

2.  Isa  Anna,  b.  17  July,  1852;  d.  17  Jan.,  1864. 

3.  Lizzie  May,  b.  22   Feb.,    1857;  mar.   Allen  Flood,  of  Buxton, 
Me.:  home,  in  Spokane  Falls,  Wash.     Issue: 

1st.     Frank  Brackett,  b.  14  Sept.,  1878. 
2nd.     Edmund  Everett,  b.  11  July,  1881. 
3d.     Beryl  Lizzie,  b.  29  Sept.,  1883. 
4th.     Pearl  Mildred,  b.  twin  with  Beryl  L. 
oth.     Marian  Abbie,  b.  19  Sept.,  1887. 

4.  George  W.,  b.  29  Dec,  1861;  mar.  Florence  Dockum,  of  Free- 
port,  Me. 

5.  Martha  A.,  b.  14  May,  1864;  mar.  Walter  French,  of  Epping. 
N.  H.;  home,  in  Andover,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Annie  Dow,  b.  30  Apr.,  1887. 
2nd.     John  Walter,  b.  17  Aug.,  1890. 
3d.     Edith  May,  b.  24  Sept.,  1892. 

4th.    "George  Henry,  b.  25  Oct.,  1899;  d.  25  Oct.,  1899. 
(i.     Fred  O.,  b.  2  June,  1870. 

FAMILY    NO.    31. 

From  Family  No.   14.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,   Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  John,  John,  David. 

David  Brackett  was  born  May  27,  1822,  in  New  Market;  died 
February  22,  1866;  lived  in  New  Market;  married  Elizabeth  Francis, 
born  September  22,  1829,  died  April  14,  1884,  daughter  of  Joseph 
and  wife,  Lucretia  Hill,  of  New  Market,  formerly  of  New  Castle. 
David  Brackett  served  in  company  E,  13th  N.  H.  volunteer  infantry, 
civil  war.     Issue: 

1.  .  Charles  E.,  b.  13  Mar.,  1847.     See  family  42. 

2.  Franklin  A.,  b.  3  Dec.  1849.     See  family  43. 

3.  Augustus   Walker,    b.   4    Mar.,    1852;    mar.    Mary  Brown,    of 
Peru,  111.;   home,  in  Peru. 

FAMILY    NO.    32. 

From  Family  No.  17.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  Benjamin,  Joshua  S.,  Joshua  B. 

Joshua  Barney  Brackett  was  born  August  4,  1867,  in  Petaluma, 
California;  was  a  merchant  in  Mesa  Grand,  Cal.;   now  (1907)  resides 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW   MARKET  403 

in  Imperial,  Cal.;  married  January  n,  1888,  Dell  Gedney,  born 
April  1,  1863,  daughter  of  J.  E.  Gedney  and  wife,  Emma  H.  Fel- 
lows, of  Mesa  Grand.     Issue: 

1.  Bruce  Joshua,  b.  12  Aug.,  1889. 

2.  Edgar  Gedney,  b.  18  Oct.,  1890. 

FAMILY    NO.    33. 

From  Family  No.   18.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Ichabod,  Leva,  Samuel  H.,  Ozro. 

Ozro  Brackett  was  born  October  22,  1812,  in  Wheelock,  Caledo- 
nia county,  Vt.;  died  September  22,  1889;  a  farmer  and  stone-cutter; 
resided  in  Wheelock,  Vt.,  Watertown,  Wis.,  in  Nebraska,  and  in 
Franktowu,  Col.,  in  the  order  named;  served  as  private  in  com- 
pany M.,  3d  Colorado  volunteer  cavalry,  in  civil  war;  was  school 
superintendent  for  one  term  and  on  the  state  board  of  agriculture, 
Colorado,  for  eight  years.  Married  (1st)  May  20,  1849,  Harriet 
Blackstone,  who  died  in  January,  1853;  married  (2nd)  March  3, 
1855,  Lucy  Philena  Stone,  born  May  3,  1836,  daughter  of  Elijah  and 
wife,  Sarah  Hadlock  Wright,  of  Weathersfield,  Vt.     Issue: 

1.     Levi,  b.  28  Dec,  1850.     See  family  44. 

L'.     Ira,  b.  26  Feb.,  1852.     See  family  45. 

.'!.  Alonzo  Haines,  b.  19  Mar.,  1856;  is  unmar.;  has  resided  in 
Franktown,  Col.;  Weston,  Ore.;  Henry  city,  Ore.;  Three  Creek, 
Ida.;  Kennydale,  Wash.;  now  (1906)  resides  in  Tekoa,  Wash., 
where  he  is  associated  in  business  with  Myron  Brown;  supplied  data 
relative  to  descendants  of  his  grandfather. 

I.  Ellen  May,  b.  6  Dec,  1857;  d.  22  June>  1862. 
5.     Samuel,  b.  29  June,  1859;   d.  14  Apr.,  1866. 
*').     Anson,  b.  19  Mar.,  1861.     See  family  46. 

7.  Addie,  b.  28  Mar.,  1.S63;  mar.  9  Feb.,  1880,  Myron  Brown,  b. 
2  May,  [830,  son  of  Daney  Brown  and  wife,  Mary  Miller,  of  Detroit, 
Mich.:  served  for  three  years  as  sergt.  in  10th  Mich.  vol.  cav.,  civil 
war;  has  been  city  marshal  of  Teoka,  Wash.;  is  a  dealer  in  merchan- 
dise, in  Teoka=     Issue: 

1st.     Arthur  Brackett,  b.  27  Feb.,  1881. 

2nd.  Florence,  b.  20  Nov.,  1884;  mar.  15  Jan.,  1906,  Frederic 
H.  Coggswell;  home,  in  Waverly,  Wash. 

3d.     Walter  H.,  b.  t6  Apr.,  1886. 

tth.  Minnie  A.,  b.  3  Mar.,  1888;  mar.  23  Apr.,  1906,  Bert  J. 
Whitehead;  home,  in  Lovell,  Ida. 

5th.  Mattie  P.,  b.  4  Jan.,  1890;  mar.  30  Apr.,  1906,  E.  R. 
Edmonds;   home,  in  Tekoa,  Wash. 

8.  Edmond  Hilton,  b.  24  Feb.,  1865;  d.  19  June,  1877. 

9.  Charles,  b.  5  Apr.,  1867;  is  unmar.;  resides  at  Three  Creek, 
(  hvvhee  co.,  Ida. 

10.  Minnie  Etta,  b.  1  Dec,  1868;  d.  7  Aug.,  1894. 

II.  Alice,  b.  28  Dec,  1870,  in  Franktown,  Col.;  mar.  22  Mar., 
1891,  Matthew  L.  Hunt,  teacher  in  high  school  and  principal  in 
graded  schools  in  Kennydale,  Wash.,  b.  6  July,  1863,  son  of  Arba  L. 
and  wife,  Margaret  E.  Corby,  of  Carbondale,  Pa.;  resided  at  Steam- 
boat Springs  and  University  Park,  Col.,  and  Seattle,  Wash.;  home, 
in  Kennydale,  Wash.     Issue: 


404  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.  Faith  Imogene,  b.  13  Feb.,  1892.  2nd.  Ozro  Harold,  b.  6 
Aug.,  1893.  3d.  Esther  Hazel,  b.  19  June,  1895.  4th.  Ruby 
Helen,  b.  19  Dec.,  1898.  oth.  Beatrice  Irene,  b.  15  Jul}-,  1901. 
6th.      Paul  Matthew,  b.  28  Nov.,  1905. 

11'.  Luther,  b.  4  Jan.,  1873;  mar.  Katie  Downing;  home,  in 
Loffgreen,  Utah. 

13.  Ozro,  1).  7  Nov.,  1S74;   d.  20  Aug.,  1877. 

14.  Amos,  b.  31  July,  1876;  mar.  Annie  Johnson;  home,  in  North 
Dakota. 

L5.  I'..  Amy,  b.  18  Sept.,  1878;  mar.  Dallas  Downing;  home,  in 
Pueblo,  Col.;   have  three  children. 

L6.  Dora,  b.  21  May,  1880;  mar.  George  B.  Adams;  home,  in 
Gibbous,  Col. 

FAMILY    NO.    34. 

From  Family  Xo.  20.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Ichabod,  Levi,  Hilton,  George  W. 

George  W.  Brackett  was  born  May  29,  1842,  in  Charleston,  Yt., 
where  he  is  a  farmer,  merchant  and  postmaster;  formerly  resided  in 
Canaan  and  Stewartstown.  Vt.  Married  December  24,  1868,  Adella 
E.  Hildreth,  born  December  2,  1849,  daughter  of  Nathaniel  and  wife, 
Lucinda  Fisk,  of  Charleston,  Vt.  Mr.  Brackett  has  held  the  offices 
of  selectman  and  town  clerk.     Issue: 

1.  Nellie  S.,  b.  11  Apr.,  1872;  mar.  in  1890,  Henry  A.  Allen; 
home,  in  Bradford,  Vt. 

2.  Burnie  H.,  b.  7  Mar.,  1875;   in  Garner,  Iowa. 

3.  Mary  E.,  b.  7  Apr.,  1881;  mar.  in  1900,  Curtis  B.  Norton; 
home,  in  Gorham,  N.  H. 

4.  Wilmer  F.,  b.  5  Apr.,  1885. 

FAMILY    NO.    35. 

From  Family  No.  25.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  Elkanah,  Elkanah  C. 

Elkanah  C.  Brackett  was  born  September  6,  1841,  in  Eastham, 
Mass.;  date  of  death  is  unknown  to  relatives;  a  fish  dealer;  mar- 
ried (1st)  Clara  Crosby,  of  Brewster;  married  (2nd)  Sarah  A.  Skid- 
more,  born  April  17,  about  1850,  daughter  of  John  and  wife,  Sarah 
Bruce,  of  Charlestown,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  Loretta  May,  mar.  Herman  T.  Van  Dusen;  home,  in  West 
Somerville,  Mass. 

2.  Walter  B.,  b.  10  May,  1870.  in  Charlestown,  Mass.;  business 
is  advertising;  home,  is  in  Somerville;  has  resided  in  Lewiston,  Me,, 
and  Newton,  Mass.;  mar.  31  Dec,  1896,  Jennie  R.  Burrows,  b.  in 
Apr.,  1872,  dan.  of  William  T.  and  wife,  Phebe  Smith,  of  Brooklvn, 
X.  V. 

FAMILY    NO.   36. 

From  Family  No.  25.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  Elkanah,  William  H. 

William  H.  Brackett  was  born  January  25,  1844,  in  Eastham, 
Mass.;  a  dealer  in  fish  and  oysters;  resides  in  Somerville;  married 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  405 

July  2,  1868,  Adaline  K.  Knowles,  born  March  20,  1845,  *n  Eastham, 
Mass.,  daughter  of  William  F.  and  wife,  Betsey  A.  Doane.     Issue: 

1.  Olive  R.,  b.  9  Sept.,  1870;  mar.  4  Oct.,  1893,  Samuel  Highby; 
home,  in  West  Medford. 

2.  Irving  Milton,  b.  8  July,  1877,  in  Eastham;  a  clerk  in  a  store; 
home,  in  Somerville;  mar.  31  Oct.,  1900,  Mary  A.  Richardson,  b.  12 
Nov.,  1864,  dau.  of  James  P.  and  wife,  Ophelia  M.  Allen,  of  West 
Medford,  Mass. 

3.  Eliza  G.  H.,  b.  14  June,  1880. 

FAMILY  NO.    37. 

From  Family  Xo.  26.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  William  D.,  William  D. 

William  Davis  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  born  in  June,  1840,  in  London- 
derry, N.  H.;  a  manufacturer  of  shoes;  factory  is  in  Nashua,  N.  H.; 
he  is  head  of  the  firm  of  W.  D.  Brackett  &  Co.,  of  Boston;  resides 
in  Stoneham,  Mass.;  served  in  company  E,  45th  Massachusetts  vol- 
unteer militia.  Married  Sarah  Ann  Lee,  born  in  1840,  daughter  of 
James  and  wife,  Charlotte  Smith,  of  Lowell,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  Forrest  Grant,  b.  in  1868. 

2.  Blanche,  b.  in  1870;  mar.  Samuel  D.  Hildreth;  home,  in 
Gloucester,  Mass. 


FAMILY    NO.   38. 

From  Family  No.  28.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  Elijah  C,  Gilbert  O. 

Gilbert  Orrin  Brackett  was  born  August  15,  1839,  in  Natick, 
Mass.;  died  January  31,  1882;  a  carpenter;  resided  in  Natick  and 
Dedham,  Mass.;  served  three  years  in  the  civil  war,  promoted  to 
lieutenant.  Married  in  May,  1869,  Mary  A.  Richardson,  born  De- 
cember 8,  1848,  died  March  16,  1876,  daughter  of  T.  B.  Richardson 
and  wife,  Mary  J.  Jackson,  of  Dedham,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  E.  Wilson,  b.  14  Feb.,  1870;  d.  26  Dec,  1890. 

2.  H.  A.,  b.    13  Aug.,    1871;   mar.  Eva  Dear;  home,  in  Maiden, 
Mass. 

3.  Frank  M.,  b.  9  Dec,  1873.     See  family  47. 

4.  F.  J.,  b.  14  Nov.,  1875;  d.  in  May,  1876. 

FAMILY    NO.    39. 

From  Family  No.  28.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John,  Samuel,  Elijah  C,  Warren  A. 

Warren  Augustus  Brackett  was  born  July  13,  1853,  in  Brighton, 
Mass.;  a  manufacturer  of  toy  boats;  resided  in  Newton,  Dedham, 
Melrose,  Hyde  Park  and  Greenwood,  Mass.,  in  the  order  named; 
married  March  3,  1875,  Eudora  D.  Bradley,  born  June  19,  1858, 
daughter  of  Albert  Davis  and  wife,  Fannie  Vie  Watkins,  of  Melrose, 
Mass.     Issue: 

1.     Isabelle  Gertrude,  b.  29  June,  1876;  mar.  4  Sept.,  1897,  John 
T.  Pettengill;  home,  in  Maiden.     Issue: 


106  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.      Margaret  Doris,  b.  31  Dec,  1899. 

2nd.     John  Bradley,  b.  26  June,  1902. 
2.      Dora  Mildred,  b.  26  June,  1878;   d.  in  Aug.,  1880. 
:;.     Albert  Frank,  b.  10  Jan..  1880;  resides  in  Melrose,  Mass. 
I.      Alice,  b.  9  Nov.,  1881;  d.  30  Nov.,  1881. 
5.      Royal,  b.  29  Mar.,  1884;  d.  in  Aug.,  1884. 

FAMILY    NO.   40. 

From  Family  No.  29.  Descent:  Anthony.  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel. John.  Samuel,  Gilbert  H..  Gilbert  H. 
Gilbert  Haskell  Brackett  was  born  January  15,  1859,  in  Brighton, 
Ma^s.:  a  proprietor  of  a  hotel;  for  fifteen  years  dealer  in  dry  goods; 
conducted  business  in  Springfield,  Worcester  and  Boston,  Mass.; 
married  November  7,  1882,  Mattie  Eliza  Stimson,  born  November  17, 
[860,  daughter  of  Joseph  P.  and  wife,  Martha  M.  Goodell,  of  Pitts- 
field,  Mass.      Issue: 

1.     Raymond  Osgood,  b.  21  May,  1885. 

•1.     Gilbert  Paul,  b.  11  Jan.,' 1887. 


TENTH   GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.   41. 

From   Family  No.  30.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas.  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  John,  John,  John,  William  A. 

William  A.  Brackett  was  born  January  14,  1848;  married  (1st) 
A.bbie  J.  Davis,  of  Cape  Elizabeth,  Me.;  married  (2nd)  Marian 
Haven,  of  Sunapee,  N.  H.;  married  (3d)  Rose  A.  Moore,  born  in 
England.     Issue: 

1.  Nellie  May,  b.  11  June,  1872;  mar.  Ben  S.  Harrison.     Issue: 
Lst.      Mildred  Pearl,  b.  1  Dec,  1891. 

2nd.     Majorie  Abbie,  b.  3  Nov.,  1901. 

2.  Isa  A.,  b.  4  Oct..    1874,  in  New  Market,   N.   H.;  d.  4  June, 
1879. 

'■'>.     Gertie,  b.  n  June,  1878. 

By  wife  Marian  Haven: 
I.     George  W.,  b.  4  Oct.,  1882. 

By  wife  Rose  A.  Moore: 
Helena  May,  b.  17  Jan.,  1895;  d.  2  May,  1896. 

6.  William  A.,  b.  25  Mar.,  1896;  d.  29  Apr.,  1896. 

7.  Florence  A.,  b.  7  Feb..  1902. 

FAMILY    NO.    42. 

From  Family  No.  31.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  John,  John,  David,  Charles  E. 
Charles  Edward  Brackett  was  born  March  13,  1847,  in  Durham, 
X.  IF:   is  a  machinist;   home,  is  in  Lowell,  Mass.;  served  in  company 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  407 

K.  ist  New  Hampshire  volunteer  heavy  artillery  from  September  9, 
1864,  to  June  15,  1865;  married  August  29,  1868,  Angie  Silloway, 
born  May  22,  1847,  daughter  of  Seth  P.,  born  December  10,  1822, 
died  April  28,  1892,  and  wife,  Lois  Alexander,  born  March  26,  1823, 
died  October  20,  1891,  of  Montpelier,  Vt.     Issue: 

1.  Lucia  Luella,  b.  20  June,  1869;  mar.  4  July,  1889,  Albert  D. 
Varney,  of  New  Market.     Issue: 

1st.     Vance  Clarence,  b.  17  May,  1891. 

Und.     Elihu  Albert,  b.  5  Aug.,  1892. 

3d.     Earl,  b.  1  Nov.,  1893. 

4th.     Ida  Hazel,  b.  20  Jan.,  1895. 

5th.     Ada  Mildred,  b.  twin  with  Ida;  d.  24  July,  1900. 

6th.     Benjamin  Evans,  b.  14  Apr.,  1896. 

7th.     Harold  Malcolm,  b.  22  Mar.,  1898. 

8th.      Frank  Brackett,  b.  20  Apr.,  1900;   d.  19  Aug.,  1900. 

9th.     Forrest  Beecher,  b.  15  Oct.,  1902,  in  Alton,  N.  H. 

10th.     Fred  Edgar,  b.  3  Sept.,  1903,  in  Alton. 

11th.     Lillian  Mae.  b.  5  Apr.,  1905,  in  Alton. 
-.     Edward  Charles,  b.  27  June,  1871;  d.  6  Aug.,  1901;  unmar. 
•'!.      Fred  Major,  b.   26  Sept.,  1873;  mar.  23  Sept.,  1903,  Tillie  A. 
Fowler,  of  Concord,  b.  3  Apr..   1X72. 

4.  Lena  Blanche,  b.  18  Oct.,  1875;  d.  14  Jan.,  1876. 

5.  Lillian  May,  b.  17  Aug.,  1X77;  mar.  16  Aug.,  1896,  Forrest 
U.  Durant.     Issue,  all  born  in  Lowell: 

1st.     Stella  May,  b.  29  May,  1897;  d.  31  July,  1897. 
2nd.     Gladys  Lillian,  b.  18  July,  1898;  d.  7  Apr.,  1900. 
3d.     Mattie  Lois,  b.  4  May,  1900;  d.  28  Aug.,  1900. 

6.  Lois  Angie.  b.  8  Aug.,  1880. 

FAMILY    NO.    43. 

From  Family  No.  31.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Joshua,  John,  John,  David,  Franklin  A. 

Franklin  Augustus  Brackett  was  born  December  3,  1849;  home, 
in  New  Market,  N.  H.;  is  a  weaver  in  cotton  mill;  married  Sarah 
Plummer,  of  Epping,  N.  H.,  daughter  of  Daniel  Plummer,  black- 
smith, and  wife,  Lydia  Caswell.  Served  as  a  private  in  company  K, 
ist  New  Hampshire  volunteer  heavy  artillery;  enlisted  September  17, 
1864;  discharged  June  15,  1865.     Issue: 

1.  Herbert,  b.  30  Nov.,  1870. 

2.  Carl,  b.  25  Jan.,  1874;  mar.  14  Oct.,  1896,  Margaret  Collins, 
from  England;  is  overseer,  cloth  hall,  New  Market  cotton  mills; 
home,  in  New  Market.     Issue: 

1st.     Carl  H.,  b.  5  May,  1905. 

3.  Alice  Elizabeth,  b.  5  Sept.,  1875;  mar.  Fred  Mathews;  mar. 
(2nd)  in  January,  1892,  Arthur  Neddo,  a  machinist;  lives  in  New 
Bedford,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Mertie,  b.  16  Mar.,  1895. 


408  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    44. 

From  Family  No.  33.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Ichabod,  Levi,  Samuel  H.,  Ozro,  Levi. 

Levi  Brackett  was  born  December  28,  1850;  died  from  injuries 
received  in  an  accident,  October  8,  1888;  was  mail  carrier  at  Kuhns 
Crossing,  Libert  county,  Col.,  from  1881.  Married  in  1876,  Clara 
Frances  Crowfoot,  born  May  5,  1861;  died  February  17,  1897,  daugh- 
ter of  David  F.  and  wife,  Phoebe  Jane  Stevenson,  of  Harris,  Col. 
Issue: 

1.  Minnie  M.,  b.  8  Sept.,  1878;  mar.  25  Dec,  1896,  Earl  Eggles- 
ton,  of  Franktown,  Col.,  b.  6  Dec,  1875,  son  of  Alson  and  wife, 
Kliza  Ann  Cook,  of  Castle  Rock,  Col.     Issue: 

1st.     Ivy  Ann,  b.  3  Dec,  1897. 

2nd.      David  Alson,  b.  16  Apr.,  1899. 

3d.     William  Harvey,  b.  27  Nov.,  1900. 

4th.     Charles  Levi,  b.  27  May,  1902. 

oth.     Grace  Hadlock,  b.  5  Jan.,  1904. 

6th.     Clara  Meriam,  b.  15  Aug.,  1905. 
■2.     Edward  L.,  b.  22  Oct.,  1880;  Butte,  Ida. 

3.  William,  b.  23  Oct.,  1882;   d.  16  Feb.,  1897. 

4.  Cora  I.,  b.  8  Mar.,  1884;  resides  in  Oakley,  Ida. 
.">.     Joseph  A.,  b.  25  Sept.,  1886. 

6.     Hattie,  b.  25  June,  1888;  resides  in  Castle  Rock,  Col. 

FAMILY    NO.    45. 

From  Family  No.  33.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Ichabod,  Levi,  Samuel  H.,  Ozro,  Ira. 
Ira  Brackett  was  born  February  26,  1852,  near  Watertown,  Wis.; 
farmer  and  stock  raiser  in  Butte,  Ida.,  where  he  is  postmaster;  for- 
merly resided  in  Washington.  Married  February  1,  1880,  Lizzie 
Mauldin,  born  January  10,  1862,  daughter  of  Miles  L.  and  wife, 
Margaret  J.  Reed,  of  Douglas  county,  Col.     Issue: 

1.  Earl  Clark,  b.  5  Dec,  1880;  d.  15  Feb.,  1881. 

2.  Mary  Inez,  b.  9  Jan.,  1884. 

3.  Roy  Elbert,  b.  19  Aug.,  1886. 

4.  Chester  Earl,  b.  10  Oct.,  1888. 

FAMILY    NO.    46. 

From  Family  No.  33.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, Ichabod,  Levi,  Samuel  H.,  Ozro,  Anson. 

Anson  Brackett  was  born  March  19,  1861,  in  Pawnee  city,  Neb.; 
a  farmer  and  stock  raiser  in  Castle  Rock,  Col.;  formerly  resided  in 
Franktown,  Col.,  where  at  one  time  he  was  school-director;  married 
(1st)    in    1893,   Eva   W.    Eggleston,    who  died   September  5,    1904, 

daughter  of  Alison  H.  and  wife,  Cook,  of  Castle  Rock;  married 

(2nd)  July  10,  1905,  Flora  Husmann,  born  July  1,  1863,  daughter  of 
Lewis  and  wife,  Rhoda  A.  Mudgett,  of  Massachusetts.     Issue: 

1.  Foncy  O.,  b.  10  Apr.,  1896. 

2.  Arvilla  M.,  b.  31  Jan.,  1898. 

3.  Anna,  b.  5  Aug.,  1903. 


SAMUEL,    OF    NEW    MARKET  409 


FAMILY    NO.    47. 

From  Family  No.  38.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Sam- 
uel, John, ^Samuel,  Elijah  C,  Gilbert  O.,  Frank  M. 

Frank  M.  Brackett  was  born  December  9,  1873,  in  Dedham, 
Mass.;  a  book-keeper  in  Maiden,  Mass.  Married  November  18, 
1895,  Lila  A.  Brown,  daughter  of  Ira  A.  and  wife,  Martha  E.  Rand, 
of  Portsmouth,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.     Lillian  M.,  b.  8  Jan.,  1897. 

1'.     Ethel  R.,  b.  25  Mar.,  1898. 

3.  Alvin  H.,  b.  15  Apr.,  1900. 

4.  Hazel  B.,  b.  14  vSept.,  1901. 


410  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


DIVISION    NO.   15. 


ANTHONY   BRACKETT  OF  FALMOUTH  AND  HIS 
DESCENDANTS. 


FIFTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY    NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  VII.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Anthony. 

Anthony  Braekett  was  born  in  1707,  in  Greenland,  N.  H.  He 
was  eight  years  old,  when  in  1715,  shortly  after  hostilities  with  the 
Indians  had  ceased,  settlers  commenced  to  return  to  devasted  Fal- 
mouth, his  future  home.  It  was  not  until  three  years  subsequently 
to  the  close  of  Lovewell's  war  that  he  took  up  his  abode  in  the  town 
where  his  great-great-grandfather  had  settled  nearly  one  hundred 
vears  prior  to  his  going  there  to  dwell.  His  father  Joshua  Braekett, 
had  secured  recognition  from  the  government  of  his  title  to  the  large 
tracts  of  land  on  the  Neck,  which  he  claimed  as  heir  of  his  parents, 
Thomas  Braekett  and  Mary  Mitton.  This  estate  Joshua  designed  for 
his  sons,  Anthony  and  Joshua,  and  during  the  long  interval  of  peace 
with  the  Indians,  beginning  with  1725,  they  went  to  Falmouth  and 
took  possession  of  it. 

In  the  First  Congregational  church  of  Scarborough,  Me.,  on 
February  14,  1734,  Anthony  was  united  in  marriage  to  Sarah  Knight. 
the  Rev.  Mr.  Wm.  Sargeaut  officiating.  It  has  not  been  learned  with 
certainty  who  her  parents  were.  The  six  older  children  of  Anthony 
were  the  fruit  of  this  marriage.  After  the  death  of  his  first  wife  he 
married  (intention  published  November  5,  1756,)  Keranhappuck 
Hicks,  nee  Proctor,  daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Sarah  Braekett 
(see  chapter  "^J);  she  survived  him  thirty-seven  years  and  died  in 
1822.  Ux 

Nearly  all  of  his  property  was  real  estate.  On  the  Neck  he  had, 
in  addition  to  other  tracts,  a  farm  on  which  he  resided;  during  his  life 
it  increased  much  in  value.  He  also  owned  the  greater  and  more 
valuable  portion  of  Peak's  island  and  this  he  conveyed  shortly  before 
his  death,  to  his  son  Thomas;  he  also  conveyed  to  said  son  and  to 
third  parties,  tracts  of  land  on  the  Neck  including  his  homestead. 
His  second  wife  had  ideas  of  her  own  relative  to  the  disposition  of  his 
estate  and  somewhat  strenuously  opposed  him  in  the  matter  of  parting 
with  his  farm  on  the  Neck.  Possibly  it  was  her  foresight  to  prospects 
of  future  values  of  these  lands,  whose  magnitude  can  now  be  realized, 
to  be  enjoyed  by  their  descendants,  if  conserved  for  them,  which 
prompted  her  to  resist  him  in  his  plan  and  to  thwart  him  in  what  she 
could.  She  was  the  descendant  of  a  man  who  feared  not  the  loss  of 
his  life  in  his  efforts  to  save  from  torture  the  victims  of  the  Salem- 
witchcraft  madness.  With  such  blood  in  her  veins,  she  was  not  to  be 
turned  from  the  course  of  her  sense  of  duty  for  the  welfare  of  her  chil- 
dren. And  he — well,  Anthony  was  the  descendant  of  George  Cleeve, 
whose  determination  to  win  always  compassed  his  purpose.     A  con- 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  411 

test  between  the  two  was  probably  as  near  an  approach  to  a  contact 
between  an  irresistible  force  and  an  immovable  body,  relative  to  results, 
as  can  well  be  imagined.  There  was  but  one  course  as  neither  hus- 
band nor  wife  would  bend  to  the  will  of  the  other;  he  sold  the  land 
and  she  refused  to  sign  the  deed — was  immovable,  and  he  irresistible. 
Like  the  dust  from  the  destruction  of  a  comet  a  hundred  years  ago, 
yet  lingering  in  space,  cobweb  notions  still  find  their  way  into  the 
brains  of  the  descendants  of  the  two,  that  out  of  their  clash  an  estate 
in  those  lands  will  some  day  be  theirs.  Out  of  the  tracts  of  land  con- 
veyed by  Anthony  by  deeds  which  his  wife  did  not  sign,  upon  his 
death  two  years  later,  a  dower  interest  was  set  aside  to  her.  From 
the  time  of  his  death  in  1784,  to  her  death  in  1822,  the  widow  enjoyed 
the  rents,  issues  and  profits  of  the  tracts  so  set  aside;  her  stepson 
Thomas,  each  year  paid  to  her  a  rent  for  the  use  of  her  dower  estate 
in  Peak's  island.  She  had  endowment  of  traits  which  well  equipped 
her  for  securing  her  rights  in  her  husband's  estate  whatever  they 
were.  Upon  her  death,  possession  of  the  tracts  set  aside  as  her  dower, 
passed  under  the  deeds  made  by  her  husband  to  the  grantees  named 
in  them,  or  to  such  persons  as  claimed  under  them,  as  the  possession 
of  the  dower  tract  on  Peak's  island  passing  to  the  heirs  of  Thomas 
Brackett,  instance.  Her  dower  right  could  not  pass  to  her  heirs. 
There  may  have  been  tracts  in  which  she  had  title  in  fee  simple,  that 
were  of  little  value  during  her  life,  and  which  in  time  became  the 
property  of  others  through  adverse  possession,  and  such  estates,  or, 
some  other  property  right  in  her,  misled  some  of  her  descendants  into 
the  belief  that  to  some  land  which  she  claimed,  as  her  heirs  they  had 
title  as  against  others  who  claimed  and  occupied  it  by  what  right 
soever. 

It  is  difficult  to  explain  how  so  many  of  her  descendants  became 
convinced,  or  inclined  to  believe,  that  as  her  heirs  they  had  an  estate 
in  fee  simple  in  lands  in  which  she  had  but  a  dower  interest.  About 
[858,  a  lawyer  whose  knowledge  of  the  law  must  have  been  obtained 
in  an  empirical  way,  though  not  always  at  his  client's  expense,  pro- 
posed to  recover  for  the  heirs  of  Keranhappuck  Brackett  the  tracts  of 
land  set  apart  from  her  husband's  estate  as  dower,  upon  condition 
that  he  was  to  pay  the  expenses  of  the  suit  to  be  brought  for  the  pur- 
pose, and  was  to  receive  one-half  of  all  he  recovered.  This  was 
agreed  to. 

What  was  the  lawyer's  view  as  to  the  title  of  the  heirs  in  said 
tracts,  is  evident  from  that  he  based  the  suit  in  equity  which  he 
brought  in  their  behalf  to  recover  the  same,  solely  upon  the  fact  that 
the  widow  did  not  sign  the  deeds  conveying  said  tracts,  and  during  her 
widowhood  had  possession  of  them  by  right  of  dower.  As  the  lawyer 
was  paying  the  costs  of  the  suit  (had  paid  $500  he  stated),  he  rested 
quite  content  upon  learning  from  the  trial  court  that  a  dower  interest 
in  land  does  not  survive  the  widow  whose  right  it  was.  He  may  have 
talked  about  taking  an  appeal  to  the  supreme  court,  but  never 
entered  any.  There  were  many  descendants  who  believed  that  the 
lawyer  settled  the  suit  to  his  advantage  and  that  the  interests  of  the 
heirs  were  sacrificed. 

The  suit  came  to  an  end  in  1862.  No  concerted  move  on  the  part 
of  the  claimants  was  again  made  until  1902.  During  the  intervening 
forty  years,  as  probably  during  the  preceding  forty,  there  was  much 


Ill'  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

talk  about  the  "widow's  dower"  and  "our  rights."  In  1902,  a  com- 
mittee was  appointed  to  search  records  and  other  sources  of  informa- 
tion for  data  as  to  the  foundation  of  the  claim  for  "our  millions." 
From  time  to  time  appeared  in  the  daily  papers  published  in  Maine, 
flaring  headlines  containing  more  information  in  them  than  was 
contained  in  the  accounts  that  followed,  relative  to  said  claim,  and  the 
proceedings  of  the  committee.  It  seems  there  was  no  need  of  search 
for  data  more  than  an  inspection  of  the  records  of  the  circuit  court  of 
Cumberland  county;  there  was  to  be  found  about  all  that  was  neces- 
sary  and  that  which  was  quite  determinative  of  the  matter.  However, 
recourse  was  taken  to  certain  musty  deeds  sold  at  one  time  as  junk. 
This  supposed  "find"  served  well  for  advertising  purposes;  there  were 
more  headlines  in  the  dailies.  Much  was  made  out  of  the  matter  in  a 
talkative  way  until  was  given  the  opinion  of  an  able  jurist  who  had 
been  employed  by  the  committee,  and  who  relied  upon  an  examination 
oi  the  court  records  for  his  knowledge  of  the  case,  to  the  effect  that  if 
peaceable  possession  under  a  deed  made  by  one  having  title  in  fee 
simple  to  the  land  in  question,  for  over  forty  years,  was  good  title  forty 
years  ago,  a  fortiori,  peaceable  possession  under  the  same  deed  for 
forty  years  longer  was  still  a  good  title  at  the  present  time.  He  did 
not  discuss  the  idea  of  a  freehold  estate  growing  out  of  a  dower  inter- 
est, and  as  for  said  musty  deeds,  returned  them  to  the  committee. 
Thus  ended  the  "widder's  dower  contest"  until  the  cycle  of  another 
forty  years  is  completed. 

The  last  effort  was  fruitful  in  no  one  thing  more  than  the  crop  of 
"Brackett  heirs"  so  called,  which  sprang  up  like  weeds,  when  was 
made  known  the  news  about  "those  millions."  Parties  wrote  to  the 
committee  claiming  to  be  heirs  of  Anthony  Brackett,  no  matter  what 
particular  Anthony.  Some  of  the  letters  were  delivered  to  the  writer, 
by  the  committee,  with  the  view  of  learning  if  the  parties  were 
descendants  of  the  particular  Anthony.  Some  of  the  parties  would 
not  take  no  for  an  answer  as  to  their  being  "an  heir,"  and  demanded 
explanations  from  the  writer  as  to  why  they  were  not  a  descendant  of 
Anthony  Brackett,  to  whom  they  would  have  been  no  greater  kin 
than  sixteenth  cousin  were  he  living.  Those  who  were  most  sure  of 
a  "fortin"  were  certain  Bracketts  living  in  Canada,  one  of  whom 
implored  the  writer  "to  be  a  man  and  let  me  in,"  and  added  that  his 
sister  was  "going  to  Washington  and  would  look  you  up."  It  tran- 
spired that  the  Washington  to  which  the  sister  journeyed,  was  Wash- 
ington state — quite  a  distance  from  the  home  of  the  writer,  who  thus 
iped  being  "looked  up." 

One  of  the  nineteen  persons  who  contributed  the  total  of  $95  to 
pay  the  expense  of  the  investigation  made  in  1902,  cautioned  the 
chairman  of  the  committee  not  to  let  "Honorable  Thomas  B.  Reed 
know"  he  had  paid  anything.  Thus  the  great  man's  advice  that  there 
was  no  foundation  to  the  claim,  passed  for  naught,  as  did  the  informa- 
tion freely  given  by  the  writer  to  certain  other  contributors  that  they 
were  not  descendants  of  Anthony  Brackett,  who  at  one  time  owned 
tin  land  concerning  which  there  was  so  great  an  ado. 

It  is  probable  that,  for  quite  two  hundred  years  there  have  been 
traditions  with  the  several  branches  of  the  family  living  in  Maine, 
concerning  tracts  of  land  in  Falmouth  which  belonged  to  George 
Cleeve,  to  which  title  was  asserted  by  members  of  early  generations 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  413 

without  avail;  thus  is  accounted  for  the  fact  that  many  persons  have 
stated  that  in  the  families  of  their  forefathers  it  was  contended  that 
there  were  large  estates  belonging  to  Bracketts  which  they  did  not 
get.  Hence,  the  wildfire  spread  from  Nova  Scotia  to  Washington 
and  Oregon  of  the  news  of  a  concerted  effort  of  a  few  of  the  descend- 
ants of  Anthony  Brackett  to  recover  the  widow's  dower.  A  material 
result  realized  was  this,  that  through  persons  making  inquiry  to  the 
committee,  lines  of  descent  were  established  of  certain  ones  whose 
ancestry  was  a  difficult  task  to  trace,  and  the  whereabouts  of  members 
of  the  family  were  learned  of  which  there  was  little  hope  of  dis- 
covering. 

Anthony  and  his  brother  Joshua  were  prominent  in  Falmouth  in 
social  and  business  affairs.  Their  estates  extended  from  one  side 
of  the  Neck  to  the  other  near  its  base.  The  house  of  Anthony 
stood  at  the  corner  of  Dauforth  and  Brackett  streets  in  Portland,  which 
latter  street  ran  through  his  farm.  The  dwelling  house  of  two  stories, 
mentioned  as  the  mansion  house,  faced  towards  the  south;  in  its  rear 
stood  the  barn,  and  in  front  of  it  was  an  orchard  on  the  slope  of  a  hill. 
Joshua's  house  stood  on  Congress  street  near  High  street.  This 
house,  which  was  burned  subsequently  to  his  death,  he  built  after  he 
had  dwelt  for  several  years  in  a  log  house  which  stood  where  Gray 
street  is.  In  the  log  house  the  brothers  lived  at  the  time  of 
Anthony's  marriage  in  1733-  They  had  dwelt  in  Falmouth  since 
1728,  the  year  following  that  in  which  administration  was  granted  on 
the  estate  of  their  grandfather,  Thomas  Brackett,  who  was  killed  in 
1679.  Between  their  houses  was  a  swamp  through  which  was  a  foot- 
path. The  division  line  between  their  estates  was  along  Grove  and 
Congress  streets.  Anthony's  included  nearly  all  the  land  on  the 
southeast  side  of  Congress  street  from  about  opposite  Casco  to  Vaughan 
street,  and  a  lot  of  nearly  fifty  acres  on  the  westerly  side  of  Grove 
street  running  from  Congress  street  to  the  alms  house  farm.  Joshua's 
land  lay  on  the  northwest  side  of  Congress  street  extending  from 
Grove  street  easterly.  Portions  thereof  he  deeded  to  his  daughters. 
For  his  daughter  Sarah,  whose  first  husband  was  Daniel  Wood,  he 
built  a  frame  house,  the  original  site  of  which  is  that  of  the  Y.  M.  C. 
A.  building;  its  present  site  is  the  rear  of  the  property  of  Henry  L. 
Taylor  on  ( )ak  street;  the  building  is  used  as  a  storehouse  for  paints 
and  varnishes.  In  its  issue  of  November  28,  1896,  "The  Argus" 
presented  its  picture  as  the  oldest  dwelling  in  the  city,  "and  the  only 
one  (of  farm  houses)  which  stands  on  the  same  lot  that  it  stood  on 
when  it  was  a  farm  house." 

In  the  early  days  of  his  dwelling  in  Falmouth,  Joshua  was 
engaged  in  shipping  wood  to  Boston;  he  said  that  he  worked  many 
nights  by  moonlight  in  order  to  have  sufficient  wood  ready  for  the 
coaster  when  she  returned.  Of  his  wife  nothing  more  is  known  than 
that  her  Christian  name  was  Abigail. 

vSituated  as  their  dwellings  were  upon  the  outskirts  of  the  settle- 
ment on  the  Neck  and  at  the  edge  of  the  primeval  forest  of  the  main- 
land, separated  by  swamps  and  surrounded  by  woods,  the  brothers 
and  their  families  were  subject  to  extreme  danger  of  attacks  by  the 
Indians.  Prior  to  the  coming  of  the  brothers  to  Falmouth,  the  town 
had  been  settled  for  nearly  a  century;  during  one-fourth  of  the  time 
it  had  been  forsaken  by  its  inhabitants  whose  homes  were  desolated. 


11  I  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Then  sixteen  years  passed  before  there  was  another  war  with  the 
Indians,  and  for  the  first  time  the  homes  of  the  brothers  were  men- 
aced with  the  horrors  of  Indian  warfare.  Vet  for  all  of  their  exposed 
situation,  it  i^  not  known  that  their  houses  or  buildings  were  ever 
burned  or  that  any  member  of  their  families  was  either  killed  or 
taken.  Hostile  Indians  were  seen  in  the  swamp  and  near  their 
homes  on  more  than  one  occasion  during  the  years  from  1744  to  1748, 
and  a  tew  years  following  1755.  The  brothers  must  have  been  skill- 
fulwoodsmen  and  well  fitted  to  battle  with  their  hardy  foes,  to  come 
is  well  as  they  did.  On  the  roll  of  Captain  James  Milk's  com- 
pany,  under  date  of  May  10,  1757,  appears  the  name  of  Anthony; 
in  tiie  alarm  list  of  that  company  appears  the  name  of  Joshua.  The 
latter  was  the  elder  of  the  two;  though  at  the  time  Anthony  was  fifty 
years  of  age,  he  was  not  too  old  for  active  duty  in  those  days,  while 
Joshua  was  available  when  the  alarm  was  given  of  an  expected  attack 
by  the  Indians. 

Anthony  was  seventy-seven  years  of  age  at  the  time  of  his  death 
September  10,  17S4.  He  was  buried  on  his  farm  in  the  course  of 
Summit  street  as  subsequently  laid;  his  remains  were  removed  to  the 
Brackett  cemetery  on  Peak's  Island,  and  at  the  head  of  his  last  rest- 
ing place  was  erected  a  marble  memorial  stone.  There  was  a  tradi- 
tion that  lie  had  taken  out  a  sound  front  tooth;  upon  an  inspection 
of  the  remains  when  exhumed,  the  absence  of  the  tooth  served  to 
identify  his  body. 

In  the  mansion  house  were  set  apart  rooms  for  the  use  of  his 
widow;  she  occupied  them  but  a  few  years;  she  resided  in  Gorham 
where  settled  at  least  three  of  her  children,  and  at  the  time  of  her 
death  in  1N22,  she  was  living  with  a  son  of  her  daughter  Meribah. 
Her  convictions  of  right  and  duty  were  second  only  to  her  determina- 
tion of  purpose  in  carrying  them  into  practice  even  at  the  cost  of  a 
lifetime's  effort  or  of  life  itself.  Like  traits  of  character  had  her 
grandfather,  John  Proctor,  whose  efforts  to  stem  the  tide  of  prosecu- 
tion of  harmless  and  defenseless  old  women  on  the  charge  of  witch- 
craft in  Salem,  cost  him  his  life,  as  he,  himself,  fell  a  victim  to  the 
orthodox}  of  that  day  and  place. 

It  will  be  noted  that  Anthony  named  his  six  known  sons  for  his 
hix  brothers.  It  is  believed  that  the  Anthony  Brackett  mentioned 
with  his  children  was  also  his  son;  the  writer  has  nothing  certain  as 
to  his  parentage.  But  it  is  not  known  of  whose  family  he  could 
have  been  a  member  unless  he  was  of  Anthony's  family  among 
whom  he  is  placed.  The.  gallant  fellow  lost  his  life  while  serving 
as  a  soldier  in  the  Continental  army.      Issue: 

1.     John,  born  in  1734.      See  family  2. 

-.  Sarah,  1).  9  Apr.,  1740;  mar.  Joshua  Fabyan,  of  Scarboro,  son 
of  Joseph  and  wife,  Mary  Brackett,  (see  wife,  chapter  VII).  Chil- 
dren were  John;  Joseph;   Samuel;  George;  Sarah;   Mary;  Joshua. 

.';.      Thomas,  1>.  in  1744.      See  family  3. 

I.     James,  b.   13  June,  1743.      See  family  4. 

~>.  Elizabeth,  b.  22  Oct.,  1747;  d.  about  1816;  mar.  Dr.  James 
Brackett  (see  fam.  4,  div.  16). 

6.  Anthony,  private  in  Captain  Tobias  Lord's  co.,  enlisted 
15  Apr.,  1776,  served  to  25  Nov.,  1776,  seven  months  and  eleven 
days  at  Falmouth.     Name  also  appears  on  return  of  men  enlisted  into 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  415 

Continental  army  from  Peter  Noyes'  (ist  Cumberland  county)  regi- 
ment dated  20  Nov.,  1778;  resident  of  Falmouth,  enlisted  for  the 
town;  joined  Captain  Skillings'  company.  Colonel  Frances'  regiment, 
enlisted  for  three  years.  Also  name  appears  in  Captain  Clark's  com- 
pany, Benjamin  Tupper's  regiment,  on  Continental  army  pay  accounts 
for  service  from  25  Jan.,  1777,  to  1  Jan.,  1778;  reported  d.  1 
Jan.,  1778.  Name  also  appears  in  Captain  John  Skillings'  company, 
Colonel  Ebenezer  Frances'  regiment  on  return  for  rations  from  date 
of  enlistment  25  Jan.,  1777,  to  time  of  arrival  at  Bennington,  fifty-four 
days.  Also  name  appears  in  Captain  Samuel  Thomas'  company, 
Colonel  Tupper's  regiment,  muster  return  dated  26  June,  1778,  mus- 
tered by  Colonel  Yarrick,  muster  master;  reported  sick  at  Albany. 

7.  Meribah:  mar.  (ist)  Halliday,  of  Newbury,  Mass.;  (2nd) 
James  Sullivan  Smith;  (3d)  Isaiah  Thomas;  resided  in  Gorham, 
Issue: 

1st.  William  H.  Smith,  b.  22  June,  1788;  mar.  (1st)  Sally 
Mayberry;  (2nd)  Ksther  Bramhall.  Children  were  Samuel  M.,  b. 
in  [812,  living  in  1900,  in  Dixfield;  James;  Simon;  Sarah;  William; 
Harriet  K.:   SUas;   Siua:   Elihu;   Mary:   Caroline;  James;   Albert. 

8.  Joshua,  b.  in  1762.     See  family  5. 

9.  Keziah,  bapt.  11  May,  1766;  mar.  Dr.  John  Bancroft. 

10.  Samuel,  bapt.  26  Mar.,  1769;  d.  about  1801-4;  said  not  to 
have  mar.;  lived  in  Portland. 

11.  Nathaniel,  b.  29  .Sept.,  1 77 1 .     See  family  6. 


SIXTH    CxKXKRATlON. 

FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.    1.      Descent:     Anthony,     Thomas,    Joshua,     An- 
thony, John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  in  Falmouth  in  1734;  he  was  in  the 
tenth  year  of  his  age  when  war  commenced  between  the  colonists  and 
the  Indians  which  continued  for  six  years.  Situated  as  was  his 
father's  home,  it  was  the  theater  of  war  alarms;  so  this  boy  at  an 
early  age  knew  its  danger  signals  and  before  the  close  of  hostilities 
was  able  to  respond  to  them.  There  were  four  years  of  peace  when 
commenced  the  Seven  years'  war,  though  the  Indians  in  Maine  did 
not  take  any  active  part  until  1756.  His  name  appears  in  a  list 
dated  May  10,  1757,  of  the  members  of  Captain  James  Milk's  Fal- 
mouth Neck  company.  As  Maine  furnished  her  full  proportion  of 
the  troops  from  the  colony  of  Massachusetts  which  took  part  in  the 
campaigns  of  1758,  1759  and  1760  against  the  French  and  Indians, 
there  is  little  reason  to  doubt  that  he  saw  active  service  in  these 
years.  In  1762,  he  purchased  a  tract  of  land  at  Saccarappa  in  Fal- 
mouth and  began  at  farming;  was  a  surveyor  and  laid  out  the  high- 
way between  Saccarappa  and  Gorham;  was  captain  of  the  local  com- 
pany of  militia  and  held  that  rank  when  commenced  the  War  of 
the  Revolution.  The  express  from  Boston  arrived  at  Falmouth  before 
the  break  of  day  of  April  21,  1775,  with  the  news  of  the  battle  of 
Lexington.     Before  the  sun  went  down  that  day  Captain  Brackett 


416  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

with  his  company  oi  minute  men  was  on  the  way  to  Cambridge;  the 
town  of  Wells  was  reached  when  the  company  received  orders  to 
return  to  Falmouth.  He  recruited  a  company  for  service  in  the  war 
and  was  commissioned  its  captain;  the  company  was  assigned  to 
Colonel  Edmund  Phinney's  regiment;  among  the  privates  were 
James  Brackett,  son  of  Joshua,  Jeremiah  Brackett,  son  of  Anthony, 
and  William  Brackett.  son  of  Thomas,  all  grandsons  of  Zachariah 
Brackett.  The  company  left  for  Cambridge,  July  3,  1775.  Soon 
after  it  reached  the  seat  of  war  Captain  Brackett  was  taken  ill  and 
while  on  his  way  to  his  home  he  died  at  Ipswich,  Mass.,  September 
24,  1775.  Married  December  20,  1768,  Mary  Fabyan  (see  chapter 
VII).  In  September,  1776,  she  married  Pelatiah  March,  a  tanner  of 
arappa.     Issue: 

1.     John,  b.  in  1770.      See  family  7. 

L'.      Mary,  who  mar.  Alonzo  Burbank. 

3.  Lucy,   who  mar.   Asael  Foster,  b.   4  Oct.,    1774,  son  of  Asael 
and  wife,  Joanna. 

4.  Sally,   who  mar.    (1st)   Simon   Quimby;    (2nd)   Thomas  May- 
be rry. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From   Family    No.    1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,.  An- 
thony, Thomas 

Thomas  Brackett  was  born  in  Falmouth  in  May,  1744;  was  a 
farmer,  also  engaged  in  other  pursuits.  His  father  conveyed  to  him 
nearly  all  the  estate  which  he  possessed  on  the  Neck  and  also  the 
greater  portion  of  Peak's  island.  He  resided  on  the  island  from  an 
early  date,  probably  lived  there  during  the  War  of  the  Revolution. 
There  were  then  only  three  dwellings  on  the  island  one  of  which 
belonged  to  Benjamin  Trott.  No  military  service  of  Thomas 
Brackett  is  mentioned  in  any  published  records.  That  he  did  serve 
as  a  soldier,  was  a  member  of  a  local  militia  company,  it  would  be 
unreasonable  to  doubt.  When  Captain  Henry  Mowatt  with  a  British 
fleet  on  October  16,  1775,  arrived  in  Portland  harbor,  he  anchored 
near  to  Peak's  island,  in  Hog  Island  roads  between  Hog  and  House 
islands  and  in  sight  of  Thomas  Brackett's  home.  Falmouth  was 
defenseless  and  the  greater  portion  of  the  town  was  destroyed  by  fire. 
At  the  breaking  out  of  the  war  his  family  consisted  of  four  small 
children,  and  early  in  the  wrar  the  fifth  child  was  born.  He  was  a 
young  man  when  the  war  commenced  and  the  owner  of  a  large  estate. 
He  probably  did  not  serve  in  any  organization  that  was  subject  to  be, 
<>r  was,  called  upon  to  perform  duty  at  a  distance  from  Falmouth. 

There  are  facts  which  tend  to  indicate  that  he  was  born  earlier 
than  1744.  A  Thomas  Brackett  in  May,  1757,  was  a  private  in  Cap- 
tain James  Milk's  Falmouth  Neck  company.  At  the  time  there  was 
but  one  other  Thomas  Brackett  (son  of  Zachariah)  in  Falmouth  and 
he  resided  at  Morrill's  corner.  It  is  not  thought  that  Thomas,  the 
son  of  Anthony  Brackett,  would  have  been  on  the  regular  or  active 
list  of  available  men  for  military  duty  at  the  age  of  thirteen  years  as 
his  age  would  have  been  in  1757,  if  he  were  born  in  1744.  A  Thomas 
Brackett  was  baptized  in  Falmouth  in  1737.  Thomas,  the  son  of 
Zachariah   Brackett,    was  baptized   in   Hampton,    New   Hampshire. 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  417 

However,  the  descendants  of  Thomas  Brackett  are  authority  in  giv- 
ing the  year  of  his  birth  as  1744.  Married  December  9,  1762,  Jane 
Hall,  born  in  1740,  died  May  10,  1810,  daughter  of  Cornelius  and  wife, 
Elizabeth  (perhaps  White),  of  Cherryfield,  Me.  Died  December  13, 
1815.     Issue: 

1.     John,  b.  12  Jan.,  1763.     See  family  8. 

-.  Elizabeth,  bapt.  4  May,  1766;  mar.  Capt.  James  Sawyer;  d.  20 
June,  1799.     No  issue. 

3.  Sally,  b.  in  1768;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1789,  John  Fabyan  (see  fam.  1, 
this  div.);  lived  in  Scarboro;  removed  to  Leeds;  buried  at  Mon- 
mouth Center,  Me.  Children,  Mary;  John;  Thomas,  who  mar.  Mary 
Haynes;  George,  who  mar.  Charlotte  Warren;  Joseph,  d.  young; 
David  Hall,  d.  young:  Jane  Brackett,  who  mar.  John  Moulton;  John, 
who   mar.   Julia  Jackson;    Patience  Hall,   who  mar.    Darius  Healy; 

Florence;   Ilus,  who  mar.  Elizabeth ;   Horace,  who  mar.  Marian 

D.  Eaton;  Joshua,  who  mar.  Mary  Ham;  Oliver,  who  mar.  Susan 
Tucker. 

4.  Patience,  b.  in  1774;   never  mar.;  d.  10  Mar.,  1794. 

0.  Mary,  bapt.  9  June,  1776;  mar.  10  Nov.,  1796,  Joseph  Reed 
who  d.  1  Apr.,  1852;  her  father  sold  to  her  two  acres  of  land  on 
Peak's  island;  it  is  in  front  of  the  present  Mineral  Spring  house, 
which  was  her  house,  remodeled;  the  house  may  have  been  built 
by  Thomas  Brackett;  she  d.  13  Nov.,  i860.  Issue  all  born  on  Peak's 
island: 

1st.  Mary,  b.  24  Apr.,  1800;  mar.  19  Jan.,  1822,  Walter  S. 
Hatch,  who  d.  12  Feb.,  1865;  lived  in  Portland;  d.  18  Nov.,  1883. 
Issue:  Eliza  E.;  Harriet  J.';  Walter  T.;  Eliza  C;  Charles  W.; 
Mary  F.;   Isabella  M.;  Joseph  R.;   Margaret;  and  Martha  C. 

2nd.  Elizabeth,  b.  3  Feb.,  1802;  mar.  in  1823,  Nathaniel  S. 
Millet. 

3d.  Thomas  Brackett;  b.  24  Aug.,  1803;  married  in  1838, 
Matilda  R.  Mitchell;   d.  in  1883.     Issue: 

I.  Thomas  Brackett  Reed,  Jr.,  b.  18  Oct.,    1839;  d.  in   1902; 
mar.  dau.  of  Rev.  Mr.  Samuel  Merrill;  has  one  child,  Kittie. 

Of  this  distinguished  man  it  is  only  necessary  to  say  that  for 
twenty  years  he  was  a  member  of  our  National  Congress  and  thrice 
was  chosen  speaker  of  its  House  of  Representatives. 

II.  Harriet  E.  S.,  b.  in  June,  1846;  mar.  Elisha  W.  Conley, 
manager  of  Standard  oil  works  in  Portland. 

4th.  Joseph,  b.  28  Apr.,.  1806;  mar.;  had  sons  Joseph  and 
George  W. 

5th.  Jane,  b.  13  June,  1807;  mar.  13  July,  1829,  Melzar  T. 
Dillingham,  of  Minot;  he  d.  17  Feb.,  1879,  she  on  11  Nov.,  1891. 
Issue: 

I.  Frances  Scott,  b.  3  Aug.,  1881. 

II.  Joseph  Reed,  b.  13  Nov.,  1833. 
6th.     Smith,  b.  20  Jan.,  1809. 

7th.     William,  b.  18  Oct.,  181 1. 

8th.     Daniel  C,  b.  22  Apr.,  1813. 

9th.  Dydia  W.,  b.  18  Oct.,  18 14;  mar.  in  1841,  Abraham  T. 
Sterling. 

10th.  Emeline  P.,  b.  10  Aug.,  1819;  mar.  in  1841,  William  S. 
Trefethen. 


IIS  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


FAMILY     NO.    4. 


From  Family  No.  i.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  An- 
thony, James. 
James  Braekett  was  born  June  13,  1745,  in  Portland;  in  his 
younger  days  followed  the  sea,  was  master  of  a  vessel;  later  in  life 
was  a  farmer  in  Gorham,  where  he  died  January  16,  1803;  married 
December  20,  T770,  Mehitable  Fabyan,  born  in  April,  1752,  died 
May  1 ,   1832.      Issue: 

1 .  kufns.  b.  16  Nov.,  1 77 1 ;  was  drowned  17  Aug.,  1795. 

2.  Fabyan,  b.  30  May,  1774;  d.  30  Aug.,  1775,  at  Newhall,  Me. 

3.  Olive,  b.  17  Oct.,  1776;  d.  3  Apr.,  1795. 

1.  Betsey,  b.  30  Apr.,  1779;  mar.  14  Nov.,  1822,  Capt.  Thomas 
Libby,  of  Scarborough;   d.  6  Jan.,  1825. 

5.  Mary,  b.  17  June,  1781;  d.  23  Oct.,  1783. 

6.  Ke/.ia,  b.  1  Sept.,  1783;  mar.  15  Aug.,  1812,  Daniel  Braekett 
(see  issue  fam.  11,  this  div.) 

7.  Mehitable,  b.  14  Oct.,  1785;  d.  1  Mar.,  1865;  mar.  Wm.  Har- 
mon, of  Scarboro;  was  his  second  wife;  lived  in  Standish,  Me.  No 
issue. 

8.  Sally,  b.  15  Aug.,  1788;  mar.  14  July,  1810,  Moses  Fogg,  of 
Scarboro,  Me.;  settled  in  Harrison,  Me. 

9.  Joseph,  b.  30  Sept.,  1790.     See  family  9. 

10.  Patience,  b.  1  Aug.,  1794;  mar.  4  Dec,  1817,  Wm.  Haggett, 
of  Portland;  d.  17  Sept.,  1871. 

LI.     Isabella,  b.  18  May,  1796;  d.  6  Sept.,  1799. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From   Family  No.    1.     Descent:     Anthony,     Thomas,    Joshua,     An- 
thony,   Joshua. 

Joshua  Braekett  was  born  about  1762,  in  Falmouth;  in  early  life 
followed  the  sea,  was  master  of  a  vessel;  known  as  Captain  Joshua; 
later  was  a  farmer  in  Gorham,  where  he  died  in  August,  1826,  in  the 
sixty-fourth  year  of  his  age;  married  Abigail  Kendrick,  of  Halifax; 
lived  in  Gorham  near  South  Windham.     Issue: 

1.  Alfred.     See  family  10. 

2.  Daniel.     See  family  n. 

.'!.     Jeremiah.     See  family  12. 

4.  Lewis,  mar.  26  Feb.,  1824,  Mary  Ward,  of  Windham;  lived 
in  Gorham;  d.  at  the  age  of  24  years;  was  a  member  of  the 
Windham  and  Gorham  Rifles  and  was  given  a  military  funeral.  His 
widow  in  1829,  mar.  (2nd)  Walker  Lewis. 

5.  John,  b.  in  1805;  never  mar.;  was  in  the  grocery  business  in 
Gorham;   d.  24  May,  1832. 

•  '».     George,  who  d.  at  the  age  of  14  years. 

FAMILY    NO.   6. 

From  Family  No.   1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,     An- 
thony,   Nathaniel. 

Nathaniel  Braekett  was  born  September  29,  1771,'in  Falmouth; 
was  the  master  and  owner  of  a  vessel;  when  he  ceased  following  the 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  419 

sea,  he  became  a  farmer  in  Gorham,  later  in  Otisfield  gore;  died 
December  24,  1844,  in  Otisfield,  Me.;  married  in  March,  1793,  Eliza- 
beth L,ewis,  born  October  12,  1776,  died  March  5,  1865.     Issue: 

1.  A  son,  b.  27  Apr.,  1794. 

2.  Patience,  b.  20  Apr.,  1795,  in  Portland;  bapt.  13  Oct.,  1796; 
mar.  9  Mar.,  1820,  William  Lovett,  b.  20  Mar.,  1785,  in  Otisfield, 
Me.,  son  of  Capt.  Jonathan,  of  Windham;  lived  in  Otisfield  on  a  farm. 
Issue: 

1st.     Caroline,  b.  14  May,  1821;   d.  26  Dec,  1831. 

2nd.  Eliza,  b.  3  Mar.,  1823;  d.  27  Aug.,  1898,  in  West  Hamp- 
stead,  N.  H. 

3d.  Frederick  B.,  b.  3  July,  1824,  in  Windham;  home,  in  West 
Hampstead. 

3.  Samuel.     See  family  13. 

4.  Mary  Ham,  b.  15  July,  1802;  d.  3  Nov.,  1881;  mar.  6  Dec,  1844, 
Rev.  Mr.  Jonathan  Tracy,  b.  28  Dec,  17S2,  d.  22  Jan.,  1863,  son  of 
Rev.  Mr.  Christopher  and  wife,  Anna  Getchell;  lived  in  Auburn,  Me. 
Issue: 

1st.  Nathaniel  Brackett,  b.  6  June,  1847;  mar.  25  July,  1869, 
Hattie  L.  Goddard,  b.  29  June,  1848,  dau.  of  Robert  and  wife,  Jane 
M.  Grant,  of  Monmouth,  Me.  Upon  the  organization  of  the  Brackett 
Family  Association  in  1902,  Mr.  Tracy  was  elected  its  secretary  and 
was  re-elected  in  1903  and  1904:  aided  materially  in  the  collection  of 
data  for  this  history;  is  a  shoemaker;  home,  in  Auburn.     Issue: 

I.  Orville    Merton,    1).    17   Dec,    1872;  mar.    30  Apr.,    1896, 
Grace  D.  Keen.     Issue: 

a.     Thelma  Olive,  b.  14  June,  1898. 

II.  Lillian  Mabel,  b.  19  Apr.,  1876. 

III.  Elizabeth  Maud,  b.  11  Mar.,  1884. 

IV.  Lena  May,  b.  30  Aug.,  1889. 

V.  Isabell  Gertrude,  b.  7  Mar.,  1892. 

.").  Eliza  Lewis,  b.  20  Aug.,  1804;  mar.  6  Apr.,  1831,  Charles 
Gardner,  b.  24  Mar.,  1808,  d.  4  Mar.,  1891,  son  of  Richard  and  wife, 
Elinor  Johnson,  of  Otisfield,  was  a  contractor;  she  d.  16  Dec,  1868. 
Issue: 

1st.     Caroline  J.,  b.  10  Mar.,  1834;   mar.  Adrian  J.  Nelson. 

2nd.  Almon  J.,  b.  2  Dec,  1836,  in  Otisfield,  Me.;  mar.  in  Apr., 
1854,  Maria  Plummer,  b.  14  Apr.,  1834,  in  Danville,  Me.;  home,  in 
Lewiston,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Carrie  J.,  b.  25  Jan.,  1857;  mar.  25  Dec,  1875,  George  W. 
Lane.     Issue: 

a.  Almon  G.,  b.  9  Mar.,  1878. 

b.  George  W.,  b.  15  Nov.,  1880. 

c.  Alice  G.,  b.  16  May,  1886. 

d.  Harry  P.,  b.  8  Aug.,  1890. 

II.  Bertie  Maria,  b.  20  Jan.,  1862;  mar.  2  Sept.,  1885,  Laban 
M.  Rand.     Issue: 

a.  Harold  J.,  b.  6  Nov.,  1889. 

b.  Carlton  H.,  b.  15  June,  1897. 

3d.  Harriet  L.,  b.  18  Apr.,  1838,  in  Norway,  Me.;  mar.  26 
Sept.,  1854,  in  Somerville,  Mass.,  Robert  B.  Graham;  d.  in  May, 
1894.     Issue: 


420  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

I.  Charles  G.,  b.  in  Dec,  1855;  supposed  to  be  dead. 

II.  Isabella  Thresa,  b.  1  Apr.,  1859;  d.  unmar.  in  Jan.,  1887. 
4th.     Eliza   K..  b.   10  Sept.,   1840;  mar.   10  Feb.,   1858,  George 

W.  Johnson;   home,  in  Westbrook,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  William  L,.,  b.   17  Sept.,  i860;  mar.  17  Sept.,  1882,  Flora 
J.  Knight;  home,  in  Westbrook.     Issue: 

a.  Ethel  Eliza,  b.  4  Oct.,  1883. 

b.  Hattie  Belle,  b.  18  Mar.,  1885. 

c.  Ella  Louisa,  b.  22  Jan.,  1887. 

d.  Mildred  S.,  b.  15  Oct.,  1890. 

e.  Florence  Idelia,  b.  5  Oct.,  1891. 

II.  George  R.,  b.  24  July,  1864. 

6.  Jane  S.,  b.  in  July,  1805;  mar.  27  Aug..  1825,  Rev.  Mr.  David 
Newell,  a  Free  Will  Baptist  minister,  b.  in  Jan.,  1805,  d.  in 
Mar.,  1 89 1,  son  of  William  and  wife,  Anna  Hoyt,  of  Durham,  Me.; 
d.  12  Apr.,  1877.     Issue: 

1st.  William  B.,  b.  3  Jan.,  1827;  mar.  16  June,  1*850,  Susan- 
nah Weeks;  d.  24  June,  1899.     Issue: 

I.  William  H.,  of  Lewiston,  Me. 

II.  Ida  Ella. 

2nd.  Charles  C,  b.  11  Aug.,  1831;  mar.  Julia  Purrington; 
served  in  co.  A,  24th  Me.  vol.  inf.;  d.  14  July,  1S63,  in  Port  Hudson, 
Miss.     Issue: 

I.  Hattie  J. 

II.  Charles  D. 

3d.  Harriet  A.,  b.  29  Sept.,  1836;  successful  teacher  for  many 
years  in  public  schools  of  Maine:   d.  unmar.  7  Jan.,  1886,  in  Gorham. 

4th.  Margie  B.,  b.  22  Apr.,  1838;  mar.  2  May,  1858,  Joseph 
W.  Libby.  b.  10  Oct.,  1831,  son  of  Xehemiah  and  wife,  Parmelia 
Harmon;  d.  7  Sept.,  1896,  in  Old  Orchard,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Clarence  G.  B.,  b.  28  Sept.,  1859. 

II.  Winifred  J.,  b.  22  Feb.,  1865. 

5th.  Henry  H.,  b.  5  Nov.,  1840;  served  in  5th  Me.  vol.  inf.; 
d.  unmar.  28  Nov.,  1861,  in  Alexandria,  Va. 

6th.  Lizzie  A.,  b.  27  Sept.,  1846,  in  Durham,  Me.;  mar.  8  Dec, 
1878,  Joseph  G.  Bodge,  contractor,  b.  8  Dec,  1836,  son  of  Thomas 
and  wife,  Abbie  Nason,  of  Windham.     No  issue. 

7.  Martha,  b.  about  1809;   never  mar. 

8.  Margaret,  b.  4  July,  1811;  mar.  Aaron  Dunn;  d.  4  Apr.,  1899. 
Issue: 

1st.     William  B.,  who  married  Getchell. 

9.  William,  b.  3  June,  1814;  farmer  in  Otisfield,  Me.;  mar. 
Susan  Green,  b.  8  Apr.,  1814,  living  in  1906,  dau.  of  Hezekiah  and 
wife,  Lydia  Lombard;   d.  20  Dec,  1875.     Adopted, 

1st.  Josiah  Morey,  b.  8  Mar.,  1846;  mar.  15  Jan.,  1867,  Hattie 
Green,  b.  28  Sept.,  1850,  d.  3  Feb.,  1878,  dau.  of  Daniel  and  wife, 
Susan  Haskell.     Issue: 

I.  Daniel  Scott,  b.  18  Feb.,  1868;  mar.  15  Nov.,  1892,  Mary 
V.  Millett;  home,  in  Otisfield  gore.     Issue: 

a.     Anna  Susan,  b.  21  Mar.,  1899. 

II.  Ella  Susan,  b.  5  May,  1869;  mar.  14  Jan.,  1892,  Elmer  J. 
Millett;   home,  in  Oxford,  Me.     Issue: 

a.     Hattie  May,  b.  23  Nov.,  1892. 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  421 

10.  Frederick,  b.  4  Mar.,  1816,  in  Gorham;  mar.  2  June,  1840, 
Mary  P.  Knight,  b.  15  Oct.,  1812,  d.  17  Dec,  1897,  dau.  of  Stephen 
and  wife,  Anna  Husten;  was  a  farmer  in  Otisfield;  d.  20  Sept.,  1896. 
Issue: 

1st.  Mary  Isabell,  b.  26  June,  1852;  mar.  26  June,  1898,  Frank 
Nash,  b.  3  July,  1843,  son  of  John  and  wife,  Margaret  Tenney;  home, 
in  Otisfield. 


SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From    Family    No.    2.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,  An- 
thony, John,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  about  1770,  in  Gorham;  was  a  farmer 
near  Saccarappa;  from  thence  moved  about  1800  on  a  farm  in  Parsons- 
field  in  York  county,  Me.,  where  he  died  about  1850;  married  Jane 
Warren,  born  about  1773,  living  in  1850,  daughter  of  John,  born 
March  5,  1731,  died  January  1,  1807,  and  wife,  Jane  Johnson,  born 
June  15,  1740,  died  November  18,  1809.     Issue: 

1.  George,   b.   13  Feb.,    1796;   mar.   Elinor ;  lived  in  Frank- 
fort, Waldo  co.,  Me.     No  issue. 

2.  Mary,    b.    28   Apr.,    179S;  mar.   Joseph    A.    Garland;  lived  in 
Frankfort;   had  several  children. 

.3.     John,   b.   23   Feb.,    1800;  mar.   Huldah  ;  was  a  farmer  in 

Parsonsfield;   living  in  [880.     Issue: 

1st.  Nathaniel,  b.  about  1825;  d.  in  the  army  during  the  civil 
war;  buried  at  Belle  Plaine,  Ya. 

2nd.     Susan,  b.  about  1828;   unmar.  in  1880,  in  Parsonsfield. 
4.     William   Warren,  b.   22  Sept.,    1803;  d.   10  Aug.,    1885;  mar. 
Susannah  Batchelder,  who  d.  24  Oct.,  1887.     Issue: 

1st.  Olive  J.,  b.  28  July,  1837;  mar.  Solomon  Drew;  home,  in 
Snow  Hill,  N.  H.  Children,  Frank  L.,  who  mar.  Lucy  Colby,  and 
had  Leslie;  Emma  S.,  who  mar.  John  Littlefield  and  had  Ina,  Lydia, 
and  Percy;  Jessie  E. 

2nd.      Almira  C,  b.  17  Apr.,  1844;  mar.  David  W.  Perkins. 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From    Family  No.    3.      Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  January  12,  1763,  in  Falmouth;  to  him 
was  given  by  his  father  a  farm  of  two  hundred  sixty  acres  on  Peak's 
island;  this  farm  was  well  stocked  with  cattle,  nearly  all  cows,  and 
dairying  was  one  of  the  chief  sources  of  income  from  the  farm;  built 
in  1796,  a  two-story  house  (now  the  Peak's  Island  house),  which  he 
kept  as  an  inn;  connected  with  the  house  were  bowling  alleys  where 
now  are  Pine's  alleys;  had  a  fish  yard  where  now  is  the  Gem  theater; 
bought  and  cured  fish  for  the  West  India  market;  married  May  7, 
1789,  Lucy  Snow,  born  about  1767,  died  June  15,  1842,  daughter  of 
Major  David,  of  Orleans,  Mass.,   a  soldier  in  the  Revolutionary  war; 


422  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

died  December   i,  1835,  in  the  seventy-third  year  of  his  age.     Issue, 
all  born  on  Peak's  island: 

1.  Jane  H.,  b.  5  May,  1791;  mar.  in  1825,  Capt.  Charles  Brad- 
bury;  d.  3  June,  1826.     No  issue. 

2.  John.  b.  2  Jan.,  1794.     See  family  14. 

3.  Mary  S.,  b.  7  Nov.,  1796;  mar.  (1st)  29  Sept.,  1816,  George 
I).  Welch:  who  d.  26  Oct.,  1828,  age  43  years;  (2nd)  William 
Haines);  (3d)  12  Apr.,  1848,  Ira  Hilborn,  of  Minot,  Me.;  she  d.  25 
Sept..  1 87 1.     Issue: 

1st.  Almira  B.,  b.  6  June,  1818;  mar.  William  T.  Jones  of 
Portsmouth,  X.  H.;  d.  30  June,  1841.  Had  son,  b.  20  Jan.,  1841,  d. 
20  May.  1 841. 

4.  Thomas,  b.  24  Mar.,  1799;  d.  8  Apr.,  1819. 

5.  David,  b.  1  Nov.,  1800;  d.  16  Oct.,  1804. 

6.  Sally,  b.  22  Aug.,  1802;  mar.  in  1826,  Francis  B.  Smith;  d.  13 
Nov..  1844.     No  issue. 

7.  Lucinda  Snow,  b.  8  Aug.,  1804;  mar.  in  1825,  Benjamin 
Welch  who  d.  at  sea  in  1880,  age  84  years;  d.  3  Aug.,  1837.  Issue, 
all  born  on  Peak's  island: 

1st.  Benjamin,  Jr.,  b.  2  Aug.,  1827;  mar.  4  Mar.,  i860,  Elinor 
Marsh,  of  Sacramento,  Cal.;  moved  via  the  Isthmus  to  California,  in 
Feb.,  1852.     Issue: 

I.  George  Henry,  b.  5  Aug.,  1861. 

II.  Walter  Hatch,  b.  5  Jan.,  1864. 

III.  Charles  James,  b.  25  Nov.,  1865;   d.  in  1867. 

IV.  Elinor  Adeline,  b.  20  Feb.,  1867;   d.  in  1867. 

V.  Minnie  Harkness,  b.  6  Nov.,  1868;   d.  in  1868. 

VI.  Frank  Cummings,  b.  26  Mar.,  1870. 

VII.  Benjamin  Bradford,  b.  12  Oct.,  1872. 

2nd.  Lucy  Elizabeth,  b.  24  Oct.,  1828;  mar.  26  June,  1849, 
James  J.  Knowlton,  of  Portsmouth,  N.  H.;  in  1854,  moved  to  Cali- 
fornia via  Nicaragua  route.     Issue: 

I.  Mary  Floraetta,  b.  10  May,  1850,  in  Boston. 

II.  Emma  L.  b.  10  Jan.,  1868,  in  San  Francisco. 
3d.     Susan  Jane,  b.  24  Jan.,  1830;   d.  24  Sept.,  1835. 

4th.  Mary  Adeline,  b.  6  Dec,  1831;  mar.  8  Nov.,  1852,  Charles 
S.  Adams,  of  Portland,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Henrv  Brackett,  b.  23  Aug.,  1853,  in  Portland;  d.  30  Oct., 

1853- 

II.  Martha  Headman,  b.  14  Sept.,  1855,  in  Portland;  d.  7  Oct., 

1856. 

III.  Mary  Eliza,  b.  15  Dec,  1858,  in  Portland;  d.  2  Oct.,  1859. 

IV.  Ellen  Lucy,  b.   30  Oct.,  1871,  on  Peak's  island;  mar.  6 
June,  1894.  Walter  Sherman  Trefethen.     Issue: 

a.     Elinor  Adams,  b.  28  Nov.,  1901. 
5th.     George  Deake,  b.  4  July,    1833;  mar.   12  Nov.,  1873,  Eda 
Bushen,  of  Oakland,  Cal.;  in  Dec,  1859,  moved  to  California  via  the 
Isthmus.     Issue: 

I.  Lucy  Brackett,  b.  26  July,  1874,  in  Oakland. 

II.  Anna  Edith,  b.  8  Mar.,  1876,  in  Oakland. 

III.  Elinor  Bushen,  b.  8  Dec,  1878,  in  Oakland. 

IV.  Adeline  Welch,  b.  5  Dec,  1882,  in  Oakland;   d.  26  Dec, 
1882. 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  423 

V.     George,  b.  n  Apr.,  1884,  in  Oakland. 

8.  Almira,  b.  24  July,  1807;  d.  27  June,  1819. 

9.  James  S.  Brackett,  b.  30  Mar.,  1810,  on  Peak's  island;  was 
master  of  a  vessel,  one  of  a  regular  line  of  packets  between  Port- 
land and  Boston;  this  at  a  time  when  there  were  no  railroads  and 
all  kinds  of  merchandise  were  carried  along  the  coast  in  sailing  ves- 
sels; home,  on  Peak's  island;  mar.  in  1833  Ann  Margaret  Jones, 
b.  26  Dec,  1813,  in  Portsmouth,  N.  H.,  d.  26  Dec,  1850.  Capt. 
Brackett  was  taken  ill  on  board  his  vessel  and  d.  suddenly  24  Dec, 
1839.     Issue: 

1st.  James  \V.,  b.  18  Oct.,  1839,  on  Peak's  island;  served 
during  the  civil  war  for  one  year  from  fall  of  1863,  in  1st  District  of 
Columbia  cavalry;  business  is  real  estate  in  Portland;  home,  on 
Peak's  island;  was  elected  in  1904  president  of  the  family  association 
and  re-elected  in  1905;  mar.  25  Dec,  1868,  Sarah  A.  Ross,  of 
Phillips,  Me.,  b.  25  Feb.,  1846,  dau.  of  William  and  wife,  Eunice 
Hoar.     No  issue. 

10.  Henry  Mansfield  Brackett,  b.  2  Mar.,  1812;  mar.  in  1833, 
Sarah  Manchester  Hadlock,  b.  6  Aug.,  1815,  d.  22  Feb.,  1898,  dau. 
of  Capt.  Samuel,  Jr.,  of  Cranberry  isles,  Me.;  was  in  the  grocery 
business  in  Portland  for  a  few  years;  after  retiring  from  this  business 
he  enlarged  his  house  on  Peak's  island,  named  it  !>The  Summer 
Retreat"  and  opened  it  to  the  public;  the  house  was  patronized 
chiefly  by  people  from  Canada  and  the  West;  owned  ninety  acres 
of  land  adjoining  the  house;  was  a  member  of  the  M.  E.  church;  its 
building  on  the  island  is  known  as  the  Brackett  Memorial  church. 
He  d.  1  Nov.,  [871. 

t 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  4.  Descent:  Anthony.  Thomas,  Joshua,  An- 
thony, James,  Joseph. 
Joseph  Brackett  was  born  September  30,  1790,  in  Gorham,  Me.; 
a  shoemaker  in  Gorham,  later  in  Biddeford,  Me.,  where  he  died  Feb- 
ruary 14,  [857.  Married  December  5,  1819,  in  Gorham,  Catharine 
Emery,  born  in  1794,  died  September  30,  1878,  in  Biddeford.     Issue: 

1.  Hiram  K.,  b.  29  Mar.,  1822,  has  been  engaged  in  seafaring 
business;  resides  at  236  West  Broadway,  Bangor,  Me.;  mar.  in 
Feb.,  [851,  Mary  W.  Mitchell,  b.  1  July,  1821,  d.  14  Mar.,  1893, 
dau.  of  John  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Webb.     No  issue. 

2.  Lorenzo  Dow  Brackett,  b.  21  Apr.,  1824;  resides  at  No.  60 
Tremont  street,  Lawrence,  Mass.  Served  as  a  private  in  co.  F., 
27th  Me.  vol.  inf.,  in  the  civil  war;  enrolled  10  Sept.,  1862,  appointed 
corp.  17  Oct.,  1862,  serg.  16  Feb.,  1863,  discharged  17  July,  1863; 
re-enlisted  26  Jan.,  1864,  in  co.  F,  1st  Me.  Vet.,  and  dis.  28  June, 
1865.  Was  in  the  following  battles:  Second  Bull  Run;  Chantilly; 
Antietam;  Fredericksburg;  Chancellorsville;  Wilderness;  Cold  Har- 
bor; Petersburg;  Fort  Stevens;  Winchester;  Fisher's  Hill;  Cedar 
Creek,  Petersburg;  Sailor  Creek,  and  at  the  Surrender.  He  is  the 
holder  of  a  medal  of  honor. 

3.  Edwin  C,  b.  5  Nov.,  1826,  in  Gorham;  d.  28  Aug.,  1884,  in 
Standish;  a  shoemaker;  served  in  the  civil  war  in  co.  B,  1st  Me. 
inf.  of  vet.  vol.,  enlisted  28  Jan.,  1864,  for  three  years.  Mar.  10  June, 
1 85 1,  Sarah  A.  Swett,  b.   7  Dec,  1827,  d.  26  Mar.,  1876.     Issue: 


424  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.     Susie  M.,  b.  17  Apr.,  1852;  d.  25  Oct.,  1883. 

2nd.  Eva  J.,  b.  28  Oct.,  1854;  mar.  in  Dec,  1885,  Charles 
Harmon;  d.  25  Nov.,  1887. 

3d.  Emma  F.,  b.  16  Oct.,  1858;  mar.  7  July,  1885,  Marshall 
M.  Gray;  resides  in  Sebago  Lake,  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Roland  L,.,  b.  18  June,  1886. 

II.  Marion  E.,  b.  9  Aug.,  1891. 

4th.  Ida  C,  b.  23  June,  1862;  mar.  in  July,  1885,  W.  A. 
Parker;   d.  9  Dec,  1889. 

4.  Mary  E.,  b.  15  July,  1829;  mar.  Matthew  E.  Daniels;  d.  13 
Dec,  1883,  in  East  Boston,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.  George  E.,  b.  28  Nov.,  1853;  mar.  22  Oct.,  1890,  Mary  C. 
Buswell;  resides  at  60  Tremont  street,  Lawrence.     No  issue. 

2nd.     Charles  F.,  b.  10  July,  1856;  resides  in  New  York  city. 

3d.  Mary  E.,  b.  6  July,  i860;  mar.  Harry  Smith;  d.  17  May, 
1891.     Son.  Willard  H.,  b.  14  May,  1891. 

5.  Louisa  A.,  b.  21  Dec,  1832;  d.  9  June,  1884;  mar.  David 
Boynton. 

6.  Lucy  C,  b.  26  July,  1835;  d.  14  Nov.,  1885;  mar.  Elias  Har- 
mon; had  dau.  L.  Belle,  who  resides  in  Somerville. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family    No.    5.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    An- 
thony, Joshua,  Alfred. 

Alfred  Brackett  was  born  in  Gorham  in  which  town  he  resided; 
was  a  farmer;  married  May  4,  1816,  Priscilla  Bramhall,  born  about 
1797;  his  estate  was  administered  in  May,  1870.     Issue: 

1.  Sarah,  who  mar.  Freeman  Paine;  d.  in  1859;  had  children, 
Freeman  and  Sarah. 

2.  Leonard,  who  mar.  Mary  Adams;  d.  in  1856. 

3.  Ellen,  who  mar.  Albion  Stiles:   d.  in  1881. 

4.  Abigail,  b.  4  Jan.,  1829;  mar.  9  Apr.,  1851,  Vollrath  Will- 
iam Rivinius,  a  hardware  merchant,  b.  20  Oct.,  1823,  d.  25  Nov., 
1893,  son  of  Adam  Friedrich,  of  Ludwigsburg,  Wiirtemburg,  Ger- 
many, and  wife,  Friedrike  Alb;  resided  in  Lowell,  Mass.,  Biddeford, 
Me.,  Roxbury  and  Somerville,  Mass.,  in  the  order  named.     Issue: 

1st.  Frederick  William,  b.  22  Jan.,  1852;  mar.  4  Sept.,  1895, 
Arria  E.  Clark;  home,  in  Cambridge,  Mass.     Issue: 

I.  Handel  Vollrath,  b.  20  Oct.,  1896. 

II.  Jessie  Watson,  b.  29  July,  1900. 

2nd.  Lewis  Adolph,  b.  7  Oct.,  1853;  mar.  15  Oct.,  1879,  Estella 
Marian  Urquhart;  home,  in  Somerville,  Mass.     Issue: 

I.  Frederick  Clifton,  b.  22  Oct.,  1880. 

II.  Abby  Laurie,  b.  31  Aug.,  1882. 

III.  Edward  Chase,  b.  26  Sept.,  1884. 

3d.     Abby  Albertine,  b.  13  Jan.,  1855;  d.  1  Aug.,  1855. 

4th.  George  Franklin,  b.  21  Aug.,  1859;  mar.  7  Nov.,  1889, 
.Sarah  S.  Fisher;  home,  in  Waban,  Mass.     No  issue. 

5th.     Forrest  Clifton,    b.    28  Mar.,    1862;  mar.    17   Sept..    1883, 
Mary  E.  Ambrose;  home,  in  Cambridge,  Mass.     Issue: 
I.     George  Ambrose,  b.  27  Mar.,  1885. 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  425 

6th.  Frank  Albion,  b.  24  Feb.,  1864;  mar.  20  Sept.,  1899, 
Emma  R.  Bucknam;  home,  in  North  Easton,  Mass.     No  issue. 

5.  Lewis  J.,  b.  20  June,  1831.     See  family  15. 

6.  Martha,  b.  about  1836;  mar.  George  Sanborn;   d.  in  1900. 

7.  Mary,  b.  about  1838;  mar.  Winslow  Burnham;  home,  in  Glens 
Falls,  N.  Y.;  children,  Nellie;  Elizabeth;  and  Frank. 

8.  Frances,  b.  about  1840;  mar.  William  Moore;  home,  in  Quincy, 
Mass.;   have  son,  Albert. 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From  Family    No.    5.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    An- 
thony, Joshua,  Daniel. 

Daniel  Brackett  was  a  son  of  Joshua  Brackett  who  married  Abi- 
gail Kendrick,  of  Halifax.  In  the  records  supplied  the  writer  by  the 
descendants  of  the  other  sons  of  Joshua,  there  is  no  mention  of  this 
Daniel  Brackett  as  a  sou  of  Joshua;  however,  Mr.  Lorenzo  D. 
Brackett,  of  Lawrence,  Mass.,  son  of  Joseph  Brackett,  son  of  James 
(who  married  Betsey  Fabyan,  and  brother  of  Joshua  who  married 
Abigail  Kendrick)  wrote  that  his  aunt  Kezia  married  her  cousin 
Daniel  Brackett,  the  son  of  Joshua,  and  that  said  Joshua  had  sons 
Alfred,  Daniel,  Jerry,  Lewis  and  John.  It  is  not  thought  that  Mr. 
Lorenzo  D.  Brackett  is  in  error  in  this  matter. 

Daniel  Brackett  was  born  in  Gorham;  married  August  5,  1812, 
his  cousin,  Kezia  Brackett,  born  September  1,  1783,  died  about  1829, 
daughter  of  his  father's  brother  James  and  wife,  Mehitable  Fabyan 
(see  fam.  4,  this  div.);  was  a  farmer;  settled  in  Naples;  died  about 
1X24,  soon  after  the  birth  of  his  son  Rufus.     Issue: 

1.  James,  b.  4  July,  1813.     See  family  16. 

2.  Joshua,  b.  in  1815.     See  family  17. 

3.  Joseph,  b.  in  181 8.     See  family  18. 

4.  Ann  Louisa,  mar.  John  Paul. 

5.  Rufus,  b.  3  Apr.,  [824.     See  family  19. 


FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From    Family   Xo.    5.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    An- 
thony, Joshua,  Jeremiah. 

Jeremiah  Brackett  was  born  in  Gorham;  when  a  young  man 
he  went  to  Windham,  Me.,  where  he  engaged  in  farming  and  acquired 
independent  means;  married  Elizabeth  Cloudman,  daughter  of  John 
and  wife,  Elizabeth  Cobb,  of  Gorham.  Mr.  Brackett  died  in  Wind- 
ham in  1870.     Issue: 

1.  Thomas,  b.  26  July,  1814.     See  family  20. 

2.  John  L.,  b.  in  1827.     See  family  21. 

3.  Sarah  E.,  is  dec. 

4.  Charles  Henry,  b.  in  1832;   never  mar.;  is  dec. 

5.  Melville  Q.,  b.  in   1845;  mar.   (1st)  Annie  Mills;   (2nd)  Minnie 
Jackson:   home,  in  Gorham;  have  adopted  dau.,  Millie. 


426  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From  Family   No.    6.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    An- 
thony, Nathaniel,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  in  Gorham;  was  baptized  June  26, 
1796;  home,  was  in  Fewiston,  Me.;  married  in  April,  1819,  Louisa 
Ingraham,  daughter  of  William  and  wife,  Sarah  Tukey,  of  Portland, 
Me.:  he  died  September  17,  1883,  in  Fewiston.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  F,  b.  9  Aug.,  1824.     See  family  22. 

2.  Sarah  A.,  b.  8  Aug.,  1826;  mar.  Charles  H.  Whitney;  home, 
in  Fewiston,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Ida  K.,  b.  12  Nov.,  1850;  mar.  4  Dee.,  1879,  J.  C.  Phillips, 
superintendent  of  schools  in  Fewiston.     Issue: 
I.     Eva,  b.  12  May,  1881. 
IF     Charles  PF,  b.  30  Apr.,  1884. 
III.     Queenie,  b.  12  Aug.,  1887. 

3.  Julia  A.,  b.  in  Feb.,  1830;  mar.  25  Dec,  1854,  H.  C.  Symonds; 
d.  19  June,  1859. 

4.  Caroline  L.,  b.  26  July,  1835;  mar.  in  June,  1S55,  Washington 
Phillips.     Issue: 

1st.  George  W.,  b.  15  Nov.,  1857;  mar.  Flora  Hurd;  home,  in 
Yinalhaven,  Me. 

2nd.     Eugene  W.,  b.  19  Aug.,  1871;  d.  13  July,  1881. 

5.  Mary  J.,  b.  19  June,  1838;  mar.  29  July,  1855,  C.  H.  Whit- 
more. 

6.  Araxzene  F,  b.  8  Apr.,  1840;  mar.  26  July,  1864,  Edwin  W. 
Rowell.     Issue: 

1st.     Ivy  Fouise.  b.  11  Feb.,  1875;  mar.  Fred  W.  Hilton. 

7.  Pizzie  F,  b.  31  July,  1841;  home,  in  Fewiston. 

8.  Edward  F,  b.  1  Sept.,  1843;  mar.  5  Sept.,  1895,  Harriet  B. 
Davis;  is  a  veterinary  surgeon;  home,  in  Fewiston.  Served  in  co. 
D,  17th  Me.  vol.  inf.  enlisted  18  Aug.,  1862,  and  discharged  6  June, 
1865.     Issue: 

1st.     Harold  E.,  b.  31  Aug.,  1896. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  Anthony. 
Thomas,  John,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  on  Peak's  island,  January  2,  1794;  was 
master  of  a  vessel  engaged  in  the  coasting  trade  between  Portland  and 
Eastport;  married  July  10,  181 7,  Mary  Andrus  Hadlock,  born  in 
1800,  died  May  18,  1880,  daughter  of  Captain  Samuel  Hadlock,  of 
Cranberry  isles,  Me.;  home,  on  Peak's  island;  died  May  21,  1869. 
Issue:     • 

1.  Seth  H.,  b.  31  July,  181 8.     See  family  23. 

2.  Sarah  Hadlock,  b.  7  Jan.,  1821,  on  Peak's  island;  mar.  26 
Aug.,  1837,  Joseph  Trefethen,  b.  22  Dec,  1815,  d.  in  1884;  she  d.  2 
Oct..  1868.     Issue: 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  427 

1st.     John  Edwin,  b.  i  Jan.,  1839;  d.  28  Dec,  1840. 

2nd.  Robert  William,  b.  10  Dec.,  1840,  in  Portland;  d.  22  Feb.. 
1862. 

3d.  Epps  Albion,  b.  24  Feb.,  1842,  in  Portland;  mar.  12  July, 
1865,  Martha  L,.  Page;  served  in  6th  Me.  battery,  vol.  light  art. 
from  spring  of  1862,  for  three  years;  participated  in  battles  of  Cedar 
Mountain,  Second  Bull  Run,  Chantilly,  Antietam,  Gettysburg,  Wil- 
derness, Spottsylvania,  Cold  Harbor,  and  actions  about  Petersburg 
and  Richmond;  was  not  wounded  nor  sick  a  day.     Issue: 

I.  Minnie  Belle,  b.  15  July,  1866;  mar.  25  Sept..  1889, 
Robert  L.  Whitcomb;  children,  Everett  L.,  b.  1  July,  1892;  Roy 
Albion,  b.  31  Aug.,  1895;  Robert  B.,  b.  6  Feb.,  1898;  Martha  M.,  b. 
31  Jan.,  1901. 

II.  Sarah  Eugenia,  b.  29  Nov.,  1868;  mar.  5  July,  1890, 
John  Everett  Doldt,  b.  in  Jan.,  1862. 

4th.  Josephine  L.,  b.  24  Apr.,  1844,  in  Portland;  mar.  13  Feb., 
[872,  in  Oakland,  Cal.,  Ambrose  J.  Plummer  of  Vallejo  Valley,  Cal.r 
b.  5  June,  1834,  son  of  Capt.  James  and  Mary  Plummer,  of  Round 
Pond.  Me.     Issue: 

I.  Harry  Eugene,  b.  28  Sept.,  1873;  mar.  9  Apr.,  1896, 
Mabel  Josephine  Swaine,  b.  18  June,  1880.     Child: 

a.     Donna  Josephine,  b.  30  Aug.,  1897,  in  Stockton,  Cal. 
oth.     Alphonso  Joseph,   b.    17  Apr.,    1846,  in  Portland;  mar.    4 
Aug.,    1869,   Mary  A.   Straighton,   b.  30  Aug.,    1851,  in  Yorkshire, 
England.     Issue: 

I.     Reginald  Alphonso.  b.  8  Jan.,  1874,  in  Boston. 
6th.      Eugene  Augustus,  b.   8  Dec,  1848,  in  Portland;  mar.  16 
Apr..  1874,  Ada  Stella  Van  Syekle,  b.   23  Apr.,  1854,  in  New  York 
city.     Issue: 

I.  Eugene  Edgar,  b.  11  Jan.,  1875,  in  Oakland;  mar.  26  Oct., 
1901,  Ina  Gladys  Haskins. 

II.  Ada  Maude,  b.  29  Nov.,  1879,  in  Oakland,  Cal. 

3.  John  T.,  b.  1  Mar.,  1823.     See  family  24. 

4.  Samuel  Hadlock,  b.  25  June.  1825;  was  a  carpenter,  member 
of  firm  of  Sheridan.  Griffith  and  Brackett  of  Portland,  plasterers 
and  stucco  workers;  mar.  in  1854,  Sophia  Cressy,  d.  17  Dec,  1899, 
dau.  of  Rev.  Noah,  of  Portland.  Mr.  Brackett  d.  9  Apr.,  1875.  No 
issue. 

5.  William  S.,  b.  1  Dec,  1827.     See  family  25. 

<'».  Elijah  Epps  Hadlock.  b.  14  Apr.,  1830;  d.  30  Sept.,  1837. 

7.  Henry  Edwin  Hadlock,  b.  22  Oct.,  1832.     See  family  26. 

8.  James  Gilbert  Hadlock,  b.  15  Apr.,  1835;  d.  13  July,  1835. 

9.  Albert,  b.  7  Apr..  1836;  d.  17  Nov.,  1840. 

10.  Gilman  L-,  b.  13  Feb.,  1840.     See  family  27. 

11.  Mary  Abigail,  b.  20  May,  1842;  d.  14  Apr.,  1847. 

12.  Epps  Gilbert  Hadlock,  b.  22  Sept.,  1846;  conductor  on  rail- 
road, in  which  capacity  he  has  served  for  over  30  years;  mar.  26 
Nov.,  1867,  Mary  Edith  Rice,  b.  13  June,  1847,  on  Sutton's  island, 
Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Wesley  Scott,  b.  10  Nov.,  1869;  d.  in  infancy. 
2nd.     Hulda  Caroline,  b.  25  Mar.,  1873;  d.  31  Jan.,  1880. 
3d.     Samuel  Gilbert,  b.  20  July.  1875;  d.  25  Apr.,  1880. 


428  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From   Family  No.    10.     Descent:     Anthony.    Thomas,   Joshua,   An- 
thony, Joshua,  Alfred,  Lewis  J. 

Lewis  Joshua  Brackett  was  born  June  20,  1831,  in  Dixfield,  Me.; 
is  a  farmer  in..Gorham;  married  January  17,  1857,  Drusilla  L.  Wood- 
bury, born  November  22,  1836,  daughter  of  Edmund  and  wife,  Jane 
Murch,  of  Westbrook,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Woodbury,  b.  in  Nov.,  1857;  d.  in  1858. 

2.  Winnifred,  b.  in  Jan.,  1859;  d.  in  1867. 

.">.  Sadie,  b.  in  Mar.,  1861;  mar.  in  1890,  C.  M.  Emerson;  home, 
in  Maiden;  have  son,  Lewis. 

4.  Lewis,  b.  in  Dee.,  1862;   d.  in  1864. 

5.  Helen,  b.  in  Jan.,  1865;   d.  in  1866. 

6.  Lewis,  b.  in  July,  1867;  d.  in  1877. 

8.  Fred,  b.  in  Aug.,  1869;  mar.  in  1900,  Mary  Stevenson;  home, 
in  Portland. 

9.  Maud,  b.  in  1871;  mar.  in  1893,  William  Siewerts,  sign-writer, 
b.  in  1871,  son  of  William  and  wife,  Melissa  Borden,  of  Hull,  Eng.; 
home,  in  Dorchester,   Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Woodbury  Hewson,  b.  15  Nov.,  1899. 

10.  Helen,  b.  in  Oct.,  1873;  mar.  in  1895,  C.  S.  Pote;  home,  in 
Maiden. 

11.  Edmund,  b.  in  June,  1875;  mar.  in  1895,  Mary  Lacey;  home, 
in  Gorham,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Hazel. 
2nd.     Lewis. 

12.  Daisy,  b.  in  Aug.,  1876;  home,  in  Gorham. 

FAMILY    NO.    16. 

From  Family  No.  11.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  An- 
thony, Joshua,  Daniel,  James. 
James  Brackett  was  born  at  Fort  Hill,  in  Gorham,  Me.,  July  4, 
1813;  married  in  1836,  Julia  A.  Lord,  born  January  2,  1819,  died 
November  26,  1901,  daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Lydia  Hazelton, 
of  Naples,  Me.;  was  a  laborer;  resided  in  Gorham,  Windham,  and 
Buxton,  Me.,  in  the  order  named;  died  October  26,  1894.     Issue: 

1.  Daniel,   never  mar.;  d.  in  June,  1865. 

2.  Lucinda,   d.  when  about  ten  years  old. 

3.  Samuel,  b.  18  May,  1846;  mar.  Esther  Hanson;  served  in  co. 
C,  25th  Me.  vol.  inf.,  enlisted  in  1864,  discharged  5  July,  1865; 
home,  in  South  Windham,  Me.     Has  daughters,  Linnie  and  Alice. 

4.  Albert  A.,  b.  18  Aug.,  1848;  mar.  in  1873,  Sarah  Day,  b.  in 
1855,  dau.  of  Marshall  J.  and  wife,  Sarah  E.  Durgin,  of  Brownfield, 
Me.;  served  in  co.  E,  1st  Me.  vol.  cav.,  enlisted  in  Jan.  and  dis- 
charged in  Aug.,  1865,  at  Petersburg,  Va.;  has  resided  in  South 
Windham,  Gorham,  Buxton  and  Standish,  Me.,  in  the  order  named; 
home  at  South  Standish.     Issue: 

1st.     Delia  M.,  b.  15  May,  1887. 

5.  Mary  A.,  b.  1  Oct.,  1850;  mar.  Edwin  Thorn;  home,  in  West 
Buxton;  children,  Lucinda,  who  is  dec;  Julia,  who  mar. Mar- 
shall. 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  429 

6.  Esther  B.,  b.  8  Dec,  1854;  mar.  Daniel  Junkins;  home,  in 
West  Buxton;  children,  Albert;  James  L;  Augusta,  dec. 

7.  Abbie,  b.  in  May,  1862;  mar.  Melville  Redlon;  home,  at  Sebago 
Lake,  Me.;  children,  Winnie;  Lucinda  A.;  Minnie  E.;  Nettie, 
Hazel;  Leroy. 

8.  Daniel,  b.  6  Sept.,  1865.     See  family  28. 

FAMILY    NO.   17. 

From   Family   No.    11.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Joshua,   An- 
thony, Joshua,  Daniel,  Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born   in  Gorham  in   1815;   married  Lovey 
Lord,  born  in  18 16.     Issue: 

1.  Edward,  b.  about  1838. 

2.  Byron,  b.  about  1841.  Served  in  co.  B,  17th  Me.,  18  Aug., 
'62,  dis.  4  Dec,  '63. 

3.  Lydia  J.,  b.  about  1844. 

4.  Cyrus  L.,  b.  about  [849. 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From   Family   No.    11.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,   An- 
thony, Joshua,  Daniel,  Joseph. 

Joseph   Brackett  was  born   in   Gorham,    Me.,  in    1818;  married 
Sarah  Lord.     Issue: 

1.  Emma  J.,  b.  about  1842;   is  dec. 

2.  Orran  T.,  b.  about  1843;  served  in  co.  E,  12th  Me.  vol.  inf.; 
re-enlisted  1  Oct.,  '64,  in  8th  N.  E.  vol.  inf.;  went  west,  never  heard 
from. 

3.  Forrester,  b.  about  1846;  co.  B.,  18  Me.,  enlisted  at  Bridgton 
29  Sept.,  '62;  d.  at  Offutts  Cross  roads,  Md.,  26  Dec,  '62. 

4.  Joseph  Freeman,  b.   in  1X48:    mar.  ;  home,  Sebago  Lake 

Issue: 

1st.     Emma,  b.  19  Apr.,  1 S 7 5 ;  mar.  3  Sept.,  1895,  Frank  Hub- 
bard, now  dec;  child,  Harry,  b.  24  June,  1897. 

5.  Thomas  J.,  b.  about  1851;  resides  in  Limington. 

6.  Llewellyn  E.,  b.  about  1855;  resides  in  Gorham. 

7.  Franklin,  twin  with  Llewellyn;  resides  in  Limington. 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From   Family   No.    n.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,  Joshua,  An- 
thony, Joshua,  Daniel,  Rufus. 

Rufus  Brackett  was  born  in  Naples,  Me.,  April  3,  1824;  married 
November  27,  1844,  Joanna  K.  Grover,  born  July  2,  1822,  died  April 
15,  1 89 1,  daughter  of  Stephen  and  wife,  Sarah  Parker,  of  Lovell, 
Me.;  was  a  farmer;  home,  in  Lovell;  died  August  13,  1885.  Issue: 
1.  Dennis  G.,  b.  27  May,  1846;  mar.  Susan  Bemis;  d.  1  May, 
1885.     Issue: 

1st.     Bert,  who  lives  in  Lovell  Center. 

2d.     James,  who  lives  in  Lovell  village. 


430  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2.     Elden,  b.  21  Oct.,  1847;   d.  13  Feb.,  1848. 

.3.  Martha  P.,  b.  13  Feb.,  1849;  mar.  Stephen  Chandler;  home,  in 
Sweden,  Me.  Issue,  six  children,  viz.:  Elmer  Brackett;  Abbie,  who 
mar.  Stow;  Susie;   Lewis;  Irving;  and  Leslie. 

4.  Mary  A.,  b.  26  Jan.,  1851;   d.  1  Apr.,  1851. 

5.  Ann  Louisa,  b.  20  Mar.,  1852;  home,  in  Lewiston,  Me. 

6.  Willis,  b.  18  Aug.,  1854;  mar.  Flora  Chandler.     Issue: 
1st.     Maud. 

7.  Oscar,  b.  16  Jan.,  1857;  mar.  Melvina  Sterns;  home,  in 
Auburn,  Me.     Has  one  son. 

8.  Cora  G.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1859,  in  Lovell,  Me.;  mar.  ,   Charles 

E.    Sylvester,    b.   26  Aug.,    1854,  son  of  Richard  T.   and  wife,  

Raymond,    of    Windham,    Me.;     home,    in    Cumberland    Mills,    Me. 
Issue: 

1st.     Calanthe  Louise,  b.  14  June,  1890. 

9.  Seth,  b.  21  Mar.,  1861;  mar.  10  Apr.,  1898,  Hannah  H.  Ring, 
b.  21  Dec.  185 — ,  dau.  of  David  and  wife,  Hannah  P.  Woodman,  of 
Lovell,  Me.;  is  a  farmer;    home,  in  Sweden,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Alfa  Viola,  b.  26  Nov.,  1899. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From  Family  No.    12.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,   An- 
thony, Joshua,  Jeremiah,  Thomas. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  born  July  26,  1814,  in  Gorham;  owned  a 
farm  at  Mallison  Falls  in  Gorham,  where  he  lived  many  years;  mar- 
ried Martha  Trott,  born  July  4,  1814,  daughter  of  Thomas,  of 
Windham;  he  died  December  3,  1882.     Issue: 

1.  Thomas  T.,  b.  about  1841;  d.  in  i860. 

2.  John,  b.  in  1843;  lives  in  Indian  territory. 

3.  Albert,  b.  23  Feb.,  1847.     See  family  29. 

4.  Albion,  b.  twin  with  Albert.     See  family  30. 

5.  George  E.,  b.  5  Mar.,  1850.     See  family  31. 

6.  Elizabeth,  who  mar.  Daniel  Cohern;  children,  John;  Thomas: 
Fanny. 

7.  Frank,  b.  about  1853;  mar.  Isabella  Mayberry;  home,  in  Port- 
land.    Issue: 

1st.     Albion  D.,  b.  in  1874. 

2nd.     Ernest,  b.  about  1878;  is  dec. 

3d.     Annie  Clifford,   is  dec. 

8.  •  Charles,  b.  in  1857;  .mar.  (1st)  Hattie  Jordan;  (2nd)  Mrs. 
Weeman;  by  first  wife  had  issue: 

1st.     Nellie. 
2nd.     Guy. 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From  Family   No.    12.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,   An- 
thony, Joshua,  Jeremiah,  John  L. 

John  L.  Brackett  was  born  in  1827  in  Windham;  when  about 
fourteen  years  old  he  went  to  the  western  states;  returned  to  Portland 
and  engaged  in  mercantile  pursuits;  is  a  manufacturer  of  trunks  and 
one  of  the  substantial  business  men  of  Portland;  served  the  city  as 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  431 

alderman:  married  in   1854,   Caroline  B.   Moore,   daughter  of  Wade 
Moore  and  wife,  Betsey  Eaton,  of  Rumford,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  Lewis,  b.  25  Jan.,  1861;  mar.  Adelaid  E.  Thorts,  b.  in 
1859;  children: 

1st.     Helen  M. 
2nd.     Caroline  M. 

FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From  Family  Xo.    13.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,    An- 
thony, Nathaniel,  Samuel,  Charles  I. 

Charles  I.  Brackett  was  born  August  9,  1824,  in  Gorham,  Me.; 
married  (1st)  in  1846,  Mary  Hill  Cook;  (2nd)  in  September,  1858, 
Jennie  Braley;  died  February  3,  1894,  in  Lewiston,  Me.,  where  he 
resided.     Issue: 

1.  Frank,  b.  30  May,  1850,  in  Livermore,  Me.;  mar.  in  1872, 
Julia  A.  Braley;  home,  in  South  Norridgewock. 

-.     William,  b.  17  Apr.,  1853,  in  Lewiston;  is  a  merchant  in  South 
Norridgewock.   where  he  resides;  mar.  24  Dec,  1881,   Lilla  E.  Pres- 
cott,  b.    11  Jan.,  1863,  dau.  of  C.  W.  Prescott  and  wife,  Arverta  S. 
Tenney,  of  South  Norridgewock.     Issue: 
1st.     Majorie  May,  b.  16  June,  1898. 

:;.     George,  b.  in  1855;  d.  in  1856. 

4.  Mary  Hill.  b.  10  Apr.,  i860;  mar.  in  1881,  Albert  Putnam; 
home,  in  Leominster,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Winifred  Edna,  b.  in  1888. 

5.  George,  b.  27  Apr.,  1861,  in  Lewiston;  resides  in  Townsend 
Center,  Me. 

6.  Edwin  Rowell,  b.  in  Sept..  1865,  in  Townsend  Center;  mar. 
(1st)  in  1882,  Addie  Noble:  (2nd)  in  1892,  Sophronia  Farnham. 
Issue: 

1st.     Bessie,  b.  in  1883. 
2nd.     Wilfred  E..  b.  in  1894. 

7.  Fred  E..  b.  6  Mar..  1S72;   d.  in  1880. 


NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From  Family  No.  14.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  John,  John,  Seth  H. 
Seth  Higgins  Brackett  was  born  July  31,  1818,  on  Cranberry 
isle.  Me.;  built  in  1853,  the  Peak's  Island  house,  the  first  boarding 
house  on  the  island:  constructed  landing  on  the  south  side  of  the 
island  next  to  Whitehead,  and  had  a  regular  line  of  steamers  running 
between  Portland  and  the  island  during  the  summer  months;  died 
November  19,  1877;  married  December  7,  1843,  Elizabeth  A.  Libby, 
born  July  12,  1823,  daughter  of  Andrew  Libby  of  Portland,  and  wife, 
Elizabeth  Lakeman,  daughter  of  Nathaniel  and  wife,  Elizabeth 
Smith.      Issue: 

1.     Caroline    E..    b.    in    1841;    mar.   in    1866.    Capt.    William    H. 
Lang;  d.  16  Feb.,  1875.     Issue: 


432  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.     Carlotta,  b.  in  1868;  d.  21  Jan.,  1884. 

2.  George  Albert,  b.  5  Oct.,  1847;  served  during  the  civil  war  in 
eo.  F.,  12th  Me.  vol.  inf.;  mar.  in  1868,  Lizzie  G.  Clark,  b.  22  Jan., 
1847,  in  Vassalboro,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.  Annie  Mabel,  b.  1  Aug.,  1869,  in  Portland;  mar.  in  1893, 
Edgar  R.  Robinson,  of  Milbridge,  Me.,  b.  4  Aug.,  1869.     Issue: 

I.  Ruth  H.,  b.  30  May,  1895. 

II.  Lawrence  Brackett,  b.  10  May,  1897. 

2nd.  Grace  J.,  b.  29  Dec,  1872,  in  Portland;  mar.  24  June, 
1895,  Wesley  Leon  Gribbin,  of  Portland,  b.  in  Sept.,  1869;  she  d.  9 
Aug.,  1896. 

3d.     Charles  P.,  b.  21  Aug.,  1875;  d.  9  Oct.,  1875. 

3.  Mabel  Rosabel,  b.  25  Dec,  1854;  mar.  16  Oct.,  1878,  Charles  A. 
Plummer,  of  Portland,  b.  20  Mar.,  1856,  son  of  Charles  M.     Issue: 

1st.     Marion  Snow,  b.  21  Apr.,  1882. 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 

From   Family   No.    14.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,    An- 
thony, Thomas,  John,  John,  John  T. 

John  Thomas  Brackett  was  born  March  1,  1823,  on  Peak's  island; 
was  a  school  teacher,  first  in  Harrington,  Me.,  then  on  the  island, 
winters  1867,  68  and  69;  formed  a  partnership  with  his  brothers,  Seth 
H.,  William  S.,  and  Henry  E.  H.,  under  the  firm  name  of  Brackett 
Brothers,  packers  of  hermetically  sealed  goods;  their  place  of  business 
was  on  the  island;  died  January  19,  1894;  married  May  24,  1846, 
Eunice  A.  Randall,  of  Harrington,  born  May  9,  1823.     Issue: 

1.  John  Frederick,  b.  13  Sept.,  1848;  mar.  9  May,  1868,  Abbie  L. 
Owen,  of  Buxton  Center,  Me.,  b.  24  Feb.,  1848.     Issue: 

1st.  Fred  Louis,  b.  10  Mar.,  1870;  mar.  2  June,  1896,  Maud 
Lillian  Lane,  of  Peak's  island,  b.  19  Ma}-,  1870,  dau.  of  Capt.  Wm. 
Lane      Issue: 

I.  Lucilla  Lane,  b.  7  Oct.,  1898. 

II.  Dwight  Anthony,  b.  8  Apr.,  1902. 

2.  Dr.  Albion  McClellan,  b.  25  Sept.,  1862;  mar.  Lizzie  Trubler, 
b.  21  Aug.,  1873,  in  A'iele,  Denmark.     Issue: 

1st.     Elinor,  b.  27  May,  1901. 

FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From   Family   No.    14.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,  Joshua,    An- 
thony, Thomas,  John,  John,  William  S. 

William  Smith  Brackett  was"  born  December  1,  1827,  on  Peak's 
island;  after  serving  three  years  as  carpenter's  apprentice,  entered  the 
employ  of  the  Portland,  Saco  and  Portsmouth  railroad  company,  and 
worked  in  its  car  shops  in  Portland.  In  1856,  he  moved  to  the  island 
and  built  the  Summit  house;  his  guests  were  mostly  people  from  Can- 
ada; died  July  6,  1889;  married  September  1,  1850,  Adeline  Preble 
Harmon,  born  March  24,  1825,  in  Gray,  Me.      Issue: 

1.  Evelyn  Frances,  b.  23  Feb.,  1852,  in  Portland;  mar.  30  June, 
1874,  Luther  Edwin  Shillings;  d.  22  Apr.,  1875.     Issue: 

1st.  Evelyn,  b.  12  Apr.,  1875,  on  Peak's  island;  mar.  Simeon 
W.  Sterling,  of  Peak's  island. 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  433 

2.  Mary  Abbie,  b.  29  Jan.,  1854,  in  Portland;  d.  8  Sept.,  i860. 

3.  William    Donald,    b.    7    Sept.,    1857,   in    Scarboro,    Me.;   mar. 
Emma  S.  Brightman,  of  Newport,  N.  S.,  b.  24  Oct.,  1857.     Issue: 

1st.     Annie  E.,  b.  15  July,  1879,  in  Portland. 

2nd.     Mabel  G.,  b.  12  July,  1881,  in  Portland;  d.  13  Aug.,  1884. 

3d.     Horatio  N.  S.,  b.  13  June,  1883,  in  Portland. 

4th.     Winthrop  R.,  b.  17  June,  1887,  in  Portland. 

4.  Addie  Cora,  b.   28  Nov.,    1861,  on  Peak's  island;  mar.  4  July, 
1880,  Charles  William  Craig;  d.  31  May,  1891.     Issue: 

1st.     Ahvilder,  b.  5  Dec.,  1881;  d.  in  Feb.,  1882. 

2nd.     Alice,  b.  28  Dec,  1883. 

3d.     Ansel  Wasson,  b.  3  Oct.,  1885. 

4th.     Nina.  b.  15  Aug.,  1887. 

5th.     Harvey,  b.  10  Apr.,  1889;  d.  in  infancy. 

FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From   Family    Xo.    13.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Joshua,  An- 
thony, Thomas,  John,  John,  Henry  E.  H. 

Henry  Edwin  Hadlock  Brackett  was  born  October  22,  1832,  on 
Peaks  island;  resides  on  the  old  John  Brackett,  Jr.,  homestead;  in 
[855,  became  junior  partner  in  the  firm  of  Brackett  Bros.,  packers; 
appointed  in  1862,  by  Gov.  Washburn,  sergeant  and  authorized  to 
enroll  the  island  district  for  the  draft;  married  (1st)  December  25,  1856, 
Julia  Ellen  Illsley,  born  July  27,  1835,  died  June  1,  1866,  daughter  of 
Arthur  E-,  of  Portland;  (2nd)  January  1,  1869,  Margie  Clifford  of 
St.  John,  N.  B.,  born  October  4,  1842.     Issue: 

1.     Jenny  Illsley,  b.  7  Oct.,  i860,  in  Portland;  mar.  18  Aug.,  1880, 
Clisson  A.  Pratt,  of  Fitchburg,  Mass.     Issue: 
1st.     Harland  Otis,  b.  12  Nov.,  1882. 

-.     Mary  Ellen,  b.   21   Dec,    1861,  on  Peak's  island;   d.   23  Feb., 
[871. 

3.  Julia  Ada,  b.   7  Mar.,    1864,   on  Peak's  island;  mar.   25  Dec, 
1882,  J.  Wilder  Merriam,  of  Fitchburg,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Harry  Caleb,  b.  11  Jan.,  1885. 

4.  Annie  Isabell,  b.  22  Sept.,  1870,  in  Portland;  d.  14  Mar.,  1898. 

5.  Henry  Oilman,  b.    1   Dec,    1873,  in  Portland;  mar.   27  Mar., 
1901,  Addie  Maria  Gates,  of  Bristol,  Me.,  b.  19  Aug.,  1874. 

6.  Minuea  Ella,  b.  25  May,  1876,  on  Peak's  island. 

7.  Arthur  Clifford,  b.  4  Sept.,  1880,  on  Peak's  island. 

8.  Wilder  Edwin,  b.  6  July,  1882,  on  Peak's  island. 

FAMILY    NO.    27. 

From   Family   No.    14.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Joshua,    An- 
thony. Thomas,  John,  John,  Gilman  E. 

Oilman  Eongee  Brackett  was  born  February  13,  1840,  on  Peak's 
island.  From  1874  has  been  in  the  employ  of  the  Boston  &  Maine 
railroad  company  as  yard  master  at  Portland;  prior  to  1874,  was  con- 
ductor; served  in  the  civil  war  in  company  B,  1st  battalion,  Maine 
volunteer  heavy  artillery;  in  February,  1899,  was  appointed  aid-de- 
camp with  the  rank  of  colonel,  on  the  staff  of  General  James  E.  Sex- 
ton, commander-in-chief  of  the  G.  A.  R.;  home,  on  Peak's  island;  sup- 


134  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

plied  for  this  history  all  data  it  contains  relative  to  the  descendants  of 
his  ancestor,  Thomas  Brackett;  married  July  20,  1862,  Mary  Ann 
Libby,  born  September  15,  1836,  in  Biddeford,  daughter  of  John  and 

wife,  Mary  Ann  Carter,  daughter  of Carter  and  wife,  Elizabeth 

Young,  of  Wakefield,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Annie  May,  b.  22  Dec,  1865;  mar.  5  May,  1888,  Elmer  Ells- 
worth vSkillings,  of  Peak's  island,  who  d.  12  Sept.,  1899.     Issue: 

1st.     Philip  Simeon,  b.  4  Feb.,  1889. 

2nd.     Ruth  Annie  Brackett,  b.  29  Oct.,  1891. 

2.  Harley  Oilman,  b.  4  Nov.,  1874,  in  Portland. 

3.  Clarence  Eugene,  b.  15  Feb.,  1878,  in  Portland;  mar.  3  July, 
1 901,  Lizzie  Polly  Cole,  b.  10  Nov.,  1880,  in  Harrington,  dau.  of 
Capt.  Charles  W.  and  wife,  Elmira  White  Ramsdell,  of  Harrington, 
Me. 

FAMILY    NO.    28. 

From   Family   No.    16.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,   An- 
thony, Joshua,  Daniel,  James,  Daniel. 

Daniel  Brackett  was  born  in  Naples,  September  6,  1865;  has 
lived  in  Standish,  Windham,  and  Buxton  in  the  order  named;  is  a 
farmer;  married  Charlotte  M.  Abbott,  born  March  21,  1870,  daughter 
of  Abijah  and  wife,  Anna  Berry;  home,  in  West  Buxton.     Issue: 

1.  Rubie  A.,  b.  15  Mar.,  1892. 

2.  James  A.,  b.  19  Mar.,  1896. 

3.  Blanchie  M.,  b.  10  Jan.,  1899;   d.  24  Nov.,  1901. 


FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From   Family   No.    20.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,  Joshua,   An- 
thony, Joshua,  Jeremiah,  Thomas,  Albert. 

Albert  Brackett  was  born  February  23,  1847;  is  associated  in 
business  with  John  L.  Brackett  in  Portland;  married  November  24, 
1871,  Eva  McAllister,  born  about  1855.     Issue: 

1.  Edith  M.,  b.  about  1872;  mar.  Lewis  Strout. 

2.  Alice,  b.  about  1873;  mar.  C.  O.  Spear. 

3.  Albert  M.,  b.  about  1878. 

FAMILY  NO.    30. 

From   Family   No.    20.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Joshua,    An- 
thony, Joshua,  Jeremiah,  Thomas,  Albion. 

Albion  Brackett  was  born  February  23,  1847;  was  a  contractor 
for  railroad  ties;  resided  in  Princeton,  Mo.,  and  Fayetteville,  Ark.; 
died  February  20,  1888;  married  November  21,  1872,  Coloma  Snyder, 

born  January  9,  1853,  daughter  of  Jonathan  and  wife,  Eliza  J, , 

of  Terra  Haute,  Ind.     Issue: 

1.  Infant  son,  b.  13  Oct.,  1873;  d.  1  Nov.,  1873. 

2.  Hattie   M.,   b.    7    Apr.,    1875;   mar.    A.    J.    Emery;  home,    in 
Breckenridge,  Mo.     Issue: 

1st.     Waden,  b.  21  Aug.,  1894. 
2nd.     Nelson,  b.  19  Dec,  1895. 


ANTHONY,    OF    PORTLAND  435 

3.  Attie  B.,  b.  7  Apr.,  1875;  mar.  8  Feb.,  1893,  Joseph  N.  Pearce, 
b.  6  Apr.,  1868,  son  of  Edward  and  wife,  Mittie  M.  Keyes,  of  Nettle- 
ton,  Mo.,  is  a  farmer;  resided  in  Breekenridge,  Mo.;  Blackwell,  Okla. 
Ty.;  and  Gladstone,  N.  D.;  home,  in  Battle  Creek,  Mich.     Issue: 

1st.     Reba,  b.  10  Mar.,  1895. 

2nd.     Lee,  b.  15  Mar.,  1899;  d.  8  Jan.,  1901. 

3d.     Thelma,  b.  6  July,  1901. 

4.  Arthur  A.,  b.  8  Oct.".  1877;  resides  at  Sayer,  Okla.  Ty. 

5.  Jessie  A.,  b.  21  Aug.,  1879;  mar.  J.  L,.  Hill;  home,  in  Battle 
Creek. 

6.  Clifford  R.,  b.  19  June,  1884;   d.  13  May,  1889. 

FAMILY    NO.    31. 

From    Family   No.   20.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    An- 
thony, Joshua,  Jeremiah,  Thomas,  George  E. 

George  E.  Braekett  was  born  March  5,  1850,  in  Windham,  Me.; 
is  a  lumberman  in  Portland;  served  during  the  civil  war  in  the  20th 
Maine  volunteer  infantry;  married  March  18,  1871,  Harriet  E.  Stevens, 
born  January  20,  1852,  daughter  of  William  P.  and  wife,  Mary  F. 
Libby.      Issue: 

1.  Jennie  I..,  1>.  5  July,  1*74:  mar.  Cornelius  E.  Hawes.  No 
issue. 

2.  Martha  E.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1878:   mar.  Dana  C.  Douglass. 
:;.     Edna  E.,  b.  1  Jan.,  1881.. 

4.     George  F..  b.  11  Mar..  1886. 


436  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


DIVISION    NO.    16. 


JAMES    BRACKETT,    THE    PEACEMAKER.    AND 
HIS    DESCENDANTS. 

FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  VII.     Descent:     Anthony.  Thomas,  Joshua,  James. 

It  is  our  fortune  to  have  a  personal  description  and  a  protraiture 
of  the  characteristics  and  disposition  of  James  Brackett  from  the  pen 
of  his  grandson,  Adiuo  Nye  Brackett,  as  follows: 

"James  *  *  was  born  in  the  year  17 14;  he  owned  during  his 
entire  manhood  one  of  the  before  described  farms  (one  of  the  farms 
owned  by  his  father  Joshua  Brackett)  containing  something  over  one 
hundred  and  fifty  acres.  James  Brackett  was  a  member  of  the  Con- 
gregational church  in  Greenland,  had  a  large  family,  and  died  Novem- 
ber 13,  1803,  at  the  age  of  eighty-nine  years.  He  was  commonly 
called  Deacon  James.  I  well  remember  him.  He  was  a  man  remark- 
able for  cheerfulness  and  kindness  of  his  disposition,  and  in  his  neigh- 
borhood acquired  the  title  of  peacemaker.  He  was  twice  married; 
his  first  wife  was  Martha  Cate,  of  Portsmouth,  born  September  5,  17 18, 
and  they  were  married  May  24,  1739.  The  issue  of  this  marriage 
amounted  to  thirteen,  six  sons  and  seven  daughters.  One  of  the  sons 
named  John  died  in  his  third  year;  all  the  rest  lived  to  an  advanced 
age.  The  time  of  the  births  of  the  children  was  given  the  writer  of 
this  article  by  James  Brackett,  himself,  in  his  own  handwriting,  in 
the  year  1800,  three  years  before  his  death  *  *  *  (as  hereafter  given). 
The  same  paper  contains  the  date  of  his  first  wife's  death  (November 
16,  1778),  she  was  something  over  sixty  years  old  at  that  time  and 
was  respected  as  a  very  sensible  Christian  and  every  way  virtuous 
woman,  calculated  to  render  the  social  circle  happy  and  useful.  The 
second  wife,  I  remember.  She  died  before  his  death;  but  neither  the 
date  of  their  marriage  or  of  her  death  is  given  in  the  paper  annexed. 
The  last  marriage  took  place  after  he  was  sixty  years  of  age,  and  his 
second  wife  was  a  widow  well  stricken  in  years  at  the  time.  And 
I  shall  infer,  though  she  appeared  a  respectable  woman,  that  the  last 
was  by  no  means  as  happy  a  marriage  as  the  first.  (Here  follows  the 
family  record. ) 

My  grandfather,  James  Brackett,  as  long  ago  as  I  can  remember, 
was  a  small  cheerful  man  walking  with  the  aid  of  two  canes,  laboring 
at  the  time  and  ever  afterwards  under  the  disease  called  sciatica, 
brought  on  by  rheumatism,  which,  as  I  have  been  told,  seized  him  at 
the  age  of  fifty  years,  after  which  he  never  performed  any  manual 
labor.  Prior  to  this  attack  he  was  represented  as  a  very  active  and 
hard-working  farmer.  This,  as  he  always  appeared  in  easy  circum- 
stances, seemed  necessary  to  bring  up  and  educate  so  large  a  family. 
As  I  said  before,  he  was  a  small  man,  as  I  should  think  not  weighing 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  437 

over  one  hundred  and  fort}-  pounds,  which  caused  him,  as  he  said,  to 
marry  a  tall  healthy  woman  'to  mend  the  breed.'  If  this  was  the 
object,  it  seems  to  have  been  attained,  for  as  far  as  I  remember,  and 
I  have  seen  them  all,  his  children  with  the  exception  of  my  father, 
were  considerably  over  the  middle  size,  well  proportioned  but  not 
inclined  to  corpulency. 

Deacon  James  Brackett  was  a  religious,  but  not  a  superstitious, 
man.  It  is  reported  of  him  that  when  he  was  chosen  to  this  office  in 
the  Congregational  church  in  Greenland,  he  at  first  declined,  saying 
he  was  not  fit  to  sustain  a  place  which  required  such  seriousness  of 
character.  It  is  further  said  of  him  that  when  two  of  his  wealthy 
neighbors  differed  about  the  division  of  their  fences,  leaving  a  small 
part  unfenced,  he  at  his  own  expense,  closed  up  the  gap,  which  in 
a  measure  restored  them  to  harmony."      (See  manuscript  narrative. ) 

It  is  fitting,  in  the  light  afforded  by  the  contents  of  the  chapters 
in  this  work  on  the  lives  of  Anthony,  the  immigrant,  Captain  Anthony 
of  Falmouth,  and  Joshua  of  Greenland,  to  insert  in  the  account  of  the 
life  of  James  Brackett,  what  was  written  relative  to  his  ancestry  by 
Adino  Nye  Brackett  nearly  seventy  years  ago.  It  should  be  borne  in 
mind  that  the  writer  had  to  aid  him  the  best  of  sources  of  information 
on  the  subject;  yet  with  this  advantage,  he  is  in  error  in  nearly  all  of 
his  statements  and  surmises  as  to  his  lineage.  When  he  conversed 
with  his  grandfather  in  1800,  he  was  about  the  age  of  twenty-three 
years,  and,  therefore,  was  capable  of  understanding  and  remembering 
what  his  grandfather  may  have  told  him,  if  anything,  on  the  subject. 
Vet  lie  was  wholly  ignorant,  when  he  wrote,  of  his  ancestor,  Joshua 
Brackett,  his  grandfather's  father,  one  of  the  richest  and  most  promi- 
nent men  of  his  day,  in  the  province.  The  errors  of  the  writer  are 
unaccountable  unless  it  is  assumed  that  he  himself  never  knew  any 
more  of  what  he  wrote  than  can  be  gleaned  from  the  few  local  histo- 
ries then  published.  Few  men  of  his  day  and  name  were  better  men- 
tally equipped  than  he  for  the  task  he  essayed;  yet,  he  possessed  so 
little  information  relative  to  his  ancestors  antecedent  to  his  grand- 
father that  his  work  is  worthless  as  authority  upon  that  point.  It  is 
as  follows: 

"All  tradition  agrees  that  the  Brackett  family  and  all  of  the  name 
inhabiting  America  came  from  that  portion  of  England  by  the  name 
of  Wales;  in  other  words  the}-  came  from  the  western  part  of  the 
island  of  Great  Britain.  The  tradition  existing  in  the  family  informs 
us  that  four  brothers  of  the  name  embarked  together  from  England 
with  the  avowed  purpose  of  taking  up  their  future  residence  in  New 
England.  The  first  notice  of  persons  by  the  name  mentioned  in  the 
history  of  the  country,  is  in  the  year  1640.  That  they  had  previously 
landed  and  purchased  land  in  the  country  is  evident  from  the  fact  that 
at  the  above  date  one  of  them  named  Anthony  conveyed  by  deed, 
jointly  with  several  others,  a  tract  of  land  containing  fifty  acres  sit- 
uated in  the  present  town  of  Portsmouth,  for  the  purpose  of  founding 
a  church  in  that  place  then  called  Strawberry  Bank.  Under  this 
grant  a  considerable  portion  of  the  land  on  which  the  present  town  of 
Portsmouth  is  built,  is  held  by  its  present  inhabitants. 

The  four  brothers  above  mentioned,  it  is  believed,  came  over  with 
the  Massachusetts  Bay  colony,  perhaps  not  as  early  as  the  very  first 
colonists  of  that  portion  of  New  England,  but  certainly  very  soon  after 


M-nrliU       f 


COAT  OF   ARMS 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  439 

the  arrival  of  the  first  Winthrop  in  that  enterprising  colony.  That 
they  did  not  belong  to  the  Plymouth  colony,  is  proved  by  the  fact  that 
one  of  them  settled  at  Braintree,  a  part  of  the  Massachusetts,  not  the 
Plymouth  colony.  The  descendants  of  this  brother,  it  is  believed, 
still  remain  in  that  town.  Of  the  other  two  brothers,  one  settled  at 
Falmouth  in  Maine  and  the  other  in  Connecticut. 

The  origin  of  the  family  cannot  be  traced  in  authentic  form  to 
a  period  beyond  that  I  have  carried  it  as  above  set  forth.  But  in 
English  history,  among  others  who  held  a  place  in  Cambridge  college, 
as  one  of  its  professors,  was  a  man  by  the  name  of  William  Brockett, 
an  enlightened  instructor  and  a  Welshman,  who  received  on  that  or 
some  other  account,  the  honor  of  knighthood.  Certain  it  is  that  the 
Bracketts  were  among  the  Crusaders,  for  they  had  their  armorial  bear- 
ings and  amongst  them  the  stag  and  the  cross  were  represented.  It" 
is  equally  certain  that  to  mark  their  out-of-doors  property,  the 
Bracketts  have  ever  used  the  sign  of  the  cross.  This  may  prove  them 
also  to  have  been  in  ancient  times  faithful  adherents  of  the  Popish 
supremacy.  But  whether  the  present  race  of  Bracketts  spring  from 
noble  or  ignoble  blood,  the  fact  is  unquestionable  that  the  New  Hamp- 
shire branch  of  the  family  had  for  its  ancestor  the  before  mentioned 
Anthony  Brackett.  His  name  appears  again  in  the  history  of  New 
Hampshire  along  with  that  of  John  Brackett  to  a  petition  to  Charles 
II,  for  the  removal  of  Edward  Cranfield,  lieutenant  governor  of  that 
province  in  the  year  [683.  They  were  then  called  of  Portsmouth, 
Greenland  was  not  constituted  a  separate  town  until  the  year  1715. 

John  Brackett  had  three  if  not  more  sons;  John,  Nathaniel  and 
James.  They  were  all  settled  on  farms  bordering  on  the  southern 
shore  oi  the  Great  Bay,  an  enlargement  of  the  Piscataqna  river,  into 
which  Kxeter,  Lamperel  and  Durham  discharge  themselves.  This 
bay  forms  the  northern  boundary  of  Greenland  and  the  water  rises 
and  falls  in  it  the  same  at  every  flow  and  ebb  of  the  tide.  Were  it 
not  for  this  circumstance  it  might  be  taken  for  an  inland  lake.  The 
tide  adds  nothing  to  its  beauty  though  much  to  the  variety  of  its 
appearance.  The  road  from  the  upper  parts  of  the  state  runs  a  mile 
from  the  southern  shore  of  this  bay,  so  that  the  farms  and  farm-houses 
along  its  borders,  are  now  secluded  from  the  public  gaze,  and  form  the 
most  delightful  residences  for  gentlemen  of  retiring  habits.  Even  the 
hermit  might  here  find  his  favorite  abode.  Such  was  and  is  the  sit: 
uation  of  the  land  on  which  Anthony  Brackett  fixed  his  final  residence, 
for  it  would  seem  that  he  once  lived  near  the  ocean.  Around  and 
near  him  he  settled  his  sons.  A  few  only  of  his  descendants  remain 
on  the  favorite  site  of  his  chosen  dwelling  place.  James,  the  youngest 
of  John  Brackett's  sons  was  born,"  etc. 

When  the  War  of  the  Revolution  commenced  James  Brackett  was 
passed  the  age  of  sixty  years.  He  was  then  a  sufferer  from  rheuma- 
tism; but  neither  age  nor  physical  infirmities,  though  unfitting  him 
for  service  as  a  soldier,  could  dampen  his  patriotism.  He  was  an 
ardent  supporter  of  the  colonists.  Aged  as  he  was  he  performed  ser- 
vice in  their  behalf  which  qualifies  his  descendants  to  become  mem- 
bers of  patriotic  orders  whose  membership  is  based  upon  descent  from 
a  sire  who  took  part  in  the  war.     The  town  records  of  Greenland  read: 

"January  9,  1775, -James  Brackett,  John  Haven,  William  Weeks, 
Clement  March  and  Greenleaf  Clark   chosen  to  be   a   committee   to 


440  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

carry  into  execution  such  measures  as  were  agreed  upon  and  approved 
by  the  Continental  congress." 

January  20,  1777,  James  Brackett  and  six  others  named  as  a  new 
committee  of  safety.  April  12,  1777,  James  Brackett  and  Lieutenant 
David  Simpson  chosen  as  committee,  to  go  to  Durham  and  hire  soldiers 
to  serve  for  the  town  of  Greenland  in  the  Continental  array. 

He  purchased  in  May,  1749,  from  his  father  Joshua  Brackett,  for 
seventy  pounds,  old  tenor,  a  gore  of  land  containing  one-half  acre,  in 
Greenland,  near  Portsmouth,  tying  between  the  roads  from  Ports- 
mouth to  Exeter  and  to  Hampton;  this  he  presented  to  the  Congrega- 
tional church  as  a  building  site,  and  in  1756,  a  church  building  was 
erected  which  still  stands  on  it.  He  was  one  of  the  selectmen  of 
the  town  for  the  years  1762  and  1763. 

His  farm  bordered  on  the  southern  shore  of  Great  bay.  From  his 
father  he  inherited  land  as  follows:  the  land  purchased  by  his  father 
"of  the  Urans  and  one-fourth  part  of  the  upland  belonging  to  the 
home  farm."  His  farm  lay  westerly  of  the  home  farm  of  his  father. 
He  purchased  additional  tracts  and  became  a  prosperous  and  success- 
ful farmer.  The  farm  is  now  the  property,  by  purchase,  of  one  of  his 
descendants,  John  H.  Brackett.  It  is  beautifully  situated,  having  a 
front  on  the  bay  of  nearly  a  mile  in  length  and  contains  two  hundred 
and  fifty  acres. 

He  married  second,  June  20,  1780,  Mrs.  Lucy  Gerrish,  nee  Cutts, 
who  died  June  7,  1802,  widow  of  Captain  Samuel  Gerrish. 

By  his  will  he  gave  to  his  two  sons  Joseph  and  James  his  one-half 
of  the  sawmill  at  Wadleigh  falls;  to  Ebenezer,  land  in  Epsom;  to 
Joshua,  the  home  farm  in  Greenland;  to  daughters  Judith  Clark,  Mary 
Wiggin,  Deborah  Weeks,  Prudence  Haines  and  Comfort  Neal,  five 
shillings  each;  to  daughter  Martha  Parrott,  three  hundred  Spanish 
dollars. 

An  effort,  which  proved  unsuccessful,  was  made  to  learn  the 
ancestry  of  Martha  Cate,  the  first  wife  of  James  Brackett.  Mrs.  Grace 
B.  Scott  wrote — 

"I  do  not  know  very  much  of  the  family  of  Martha  Cate.  I  think 
her  father  may  have  been  the  Deacon  John  Cate,  mentioned  on  page 
163  of  Hall's  History  of  Greenland,  and  wife  Judith,  from  the  fact  that 
the  farm  where  Martha  was  reared,  was  a  large  one  extending  more 
than  a  mile  along  the  highway,  and  Otis  Hall  says  that  Deacon  John 
Cate  was  a  large  land  owner.  I  know  that  the  Andrew  Cate  spoken 
of  in  Hall's  book  was  a  nephew  of  Martha  Cate  Brackett.  Andrew 
Cate's  daughter,  Mary  Cate,  a  maiden  lady,  perhaps  90  years  or  more 
old,  lived,  and  died  about  25  years  ago,  in  the  old  gambrel-roofed 
house  a  part  of  which  still  stands  on  the  old  farm.  She  could  not 
remember  what  was  her  grandfather's  name.  In  answer  to  my  ques- 
tion she  would  say,  T  had  eight  great-aunts  dear,  and  one  on  em  mar- 
ried with  a  Goss  and  lived  over  there  where  your  mother  and  little 
Johnnie  Brackett  does;  and  one  married  your  grandsire  and  one  mar- 
ried a  Greenleaf  and  lived  in  Boston  and  some  married  one  thing  and 
some  another.' 

Evidently  this  was  all  she  could  remember.     We  used  to  laugh 
to  hear  Mary  Cate  call  my  brother  'little  Johnnie  Brackett'  when  he 
was  a  big  six-footer  weighing  something  over  200  pounds."     Issue: 
1.     Joseph,  b.  14  July,  1740.     See  family  2. 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  441 

2.  Judith,  b.  on  Tuesday,  2  Feb.,  1742,  in  Greenland;  mar.  14 
Jan.,  1762.  Lt.  Ebenezer  Clark,  of  Stratham;   d.  6  Apr.,  1811. 

3.  Ebenezer,  b.  28  Nov.,  1743.     See  family  3. 

4.  Martha,  b.  on  Saturday,  28  Dec.,  1845,  in  Greenland;  mar. 
22  Dee.,  1779,  John  Parrot;  home,  in  Greenland;  d.  7  Dee.,  1825. 
Issue: 

1st.  Enoch  Greenleaf,  b.  8  Dec,  1780;  mar.  29  Jan.,  1809, 
Susan  Parker,  b.  11  Jan.,  1780,  d.  21  Apr.,  1852;  d.  13  June,  1828. 
Issue: 

I.  Mary  Parker,  b.  23  Dec,  1811;  d.  27  Jan.,  1849. 

II.  Susan  Parker,    b.    18  June,    1814;    mar.    29   Sept.,    1838, 
Lyman  Dyer  Spaulding;   d.  27  Apr.,  1889. 

III.  Enoch  Greenleaf,  b.  27  Nov.,  1815;  was  rear  admiral  in 
U.  S.  Navy;  d.  10  May,  1879. 

IV.  James  Brackett,  b.  26  Nov.,  1817;   d.  29  Jan.,  1890. 

V.  Elizabeth  Toscan,  b.  7  Mar.,  1820;  d.  21  July,  1841. 

VI.  Charles  Frederick,  b.  8  Feb.,  1822;  d.  14  Aug.,  1822. 

5.  Mary.  1).  on  Monday,  14  Dec,  1747,  in  Greenland;  mar.  26  Jan., 
1769,  Tufton  Wiggin,  of  Stratham;  d.  4  Nov.,  181 7.     Issue: 

1st.      Polly,  who  mar.  Leavitt  of  Dee. 

2nd.      Patty,  who  mar.  Bartlett  of  Bangor,  Me. 
<>.     Deborah,   b.   on  Thursday,    14  Dec,    1749,  in  Greenland;  d.  5 
Jul\-,  1 831:   mar.  27  Dec,  1770,  Capt.  John  Weeks,  brother  of  Mary 
Weeks,  wile  of  Joseph  Brackett,  b.  in  Hampton,  d.  suddenly  in  Wake- 
field on  his  way  home  from  Greenland;  resided  in  Lancaster.     Issue: 

1st.  Martha,  b.  20  Dec,  1 77 1 ;  mar.  Edward  Spaulding,  of  Dan- 
caster,  their  home;  d.  10  Jan.,  1871;  children,  Edward  C;  John  W.; 
William  D.;   Eliza;  John  Brackett;  and  Martha  B. 

2nd.      Deba,  b.  21  Nov..  1773;   d.  27  July,  1774. 

3d.  Deborah,  b.  29  Feb.',  1776;  mar.  (1st)  William  Ayres  and 
had  dau.  Deborah:  (2nd)  Jacob  Emerson;  d.  in  Dunenberg,  Vt.,  21 
Nov.,  i860. 

4th.  Elizabeth,  b.  10  Mar.,  1778;  mar.  in  Jan.,  1801,  Judge 
A/.iriah  Webb,  Jr.,  of  Lunenberg;  d.  in  Maidstone,  Vt.,  1  Apr.,  1849; 
children,  Marcus  A.;  Eliza;  Martha  W.;  Marv  A.;  Lucy  A.;  and 
John  W. 

5th.  John  Wingate,  b.  31  Mar.,  1781;  mar.  (1st)  Martha  W. 
Brackett  (see  fam.  2,  this  div.);  (2nd)  Persis  F.  Everitt;  home,  in 
Lancaster;   member  of  Congress  from  1829  to  1833;  d.  3  Apr.,  1853. 

6th.  James  Brackett,  b.  14  June,  1784;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1810,  Eliza- 
beth Stanley;   farmer  in  Lancaster;  d.  19  Mar.,  1858. 

7th.  Mary  Wiggin,  b.  4  Mar.,  1787;  mar.  1  Nov.,  1808,  Adino 
Nye  Brackett  (see  fam.  9,  this  div.);  d.  in  1863. 

8th.  Sally  Brackett,  b.  13  Aug.,  1789;  mar.  25  Jan.,  1816, 
Edward  Bucknam;  was  living  in  1888;  children,  Edward  F.;  Deb- 
orah W.;   Marv-  N.;  Martha  B.;  John  W. 

7.  James,  b.  6  Oct.,  1750.     See  family  4. 

8.  Prudence,  b.  on  Tuesday,  May  21,  1753,  in  Greenland;  mar. 
(1st)  Richard  Haines;  (2nd)  Josiah  Sanborn;  d.  7  May,  1843.  Pru- 
dence had  a  round  face  and  dark  eyes;  she  eloped  with  Haines,  the 
mother  at  dawn  catching  a  glimpse  of  the  fleeing  couple  on  horse 
back.  The  father  objected  to  the  match  because  he  believed  Haines 
was  intemperate  and  that  his  daughter's  lot  with  him  would  be  one  of 


442  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

poverty  and  homeless  children.  When  he  heard  of  the  marriage  he 
said  to  his  wife  that  he  had  declared  he  would  never  give  his  daughter 
anything  if  she  married  Haines;  "but"  he  added,  "I  never  said  you 
should  not."  So  an  outfit  was  prepared  and  by  ox-team  sent  by  the 
mother  to  the  young  couple  in  Canterbury.  Her  widow's  portion  was 
poverty  and  a  large  family.  Not  long  after  her  husband's  death, 
Jeremiah  Calef,  her  sister  Hannah's  husband,  met  his  friend  Col. 
Josiah  Sanborn,  when  the  latter  expressed  a  wish  that  he  could  find 
as  good  a  stepmother  for  his  children,  as  Calef  had  found  for  his. 
Calef  replied  that  the  widow  Haines  was  one  of  the  best  women  who 
ever  lived,  and  added,  after  a  pause,  "and  she  is  the  poorest  woman 
in  Canterbury."  Calef  introduced  Sanborn  to  the  widow;  the  result 
was  a  happy  marriage.     Issue  by  husband,  Richard  Haines: 

1st.     Thomas,  who  mar.  and  d.  about  1853. 

2nd.     Eliza,  who  mar.  James  Cofran. 

3d.  Martha,  who  mar.  Charles  Sanborn,  son  of  Colonel  Josiah 
Sanborn. 

4th.     Hannah,   mar.  Hall;  d.  19  Oct.,  1826;  had  son  Adino 

Nye  Brackett,  b.  about  1819.  a  physician;  his  widow  erected  in  North- 
field,  N.  H.,  in  his  memory  a  library  building  at  a  cost  of  $10,000. 

5th.     Brackett. 

9.  Joshua,  b.  29  May,  1755.     See  family  5. 

10.  Comfort,  b.  on  Tuesday,  1  Feb.,  1757;  mar.  6  May,  1779, 
Zebulon  Neal;  resided  in  New  York  state;  d.  before  1841. 

11.  Hannah,  b.  on  Thursday,  22  Feb.,  1759,  in  Greenland;  mar. 
Stephen  Creighton  who  d.  about  1790;  she  mar.  about  1799,  Jeremiah 
Calef,  of  Sanbornton,  N.  H.,  and  d.  before  1834;  unlike  her  sister 
Prudence,  she  had  a  light  complexion  and  light  blue  eyes.  Issue  by 
first  husband: 

1st.  James  Brackett,  b.  19  Sept.,  1789,  in  Exeter;  d.  11  Aug., 
1882,  in  New  Market;  mar.  Sarah,  dau.  of  Zebulon  Dow  of  Epping; 
mar.  (2nd)  in  1836,  Charlotte,  dau.  of  Timothy  Murry  and  wife, 
Elizabeth  Chapman.  At  the  age  of  fourteen  years  he  was  running  a 
mill  for  carding  wool;  later  was  making  and  dressing  fulled  cloth  as 
it  was  then  called;  during  the  war  of  181 2  he  furnished  several  thou- 
sand yards  of  navy  blue  cloth  for  the  army;  also  manufactured  cheap 
wool  hats  which  were  sent  south  for  the  use  of  negro  slaves;  was  an 
officer  in  the  state  militia,  rose  to  the  rank  of  colonel;  member  of  the 
legislature,  representative  in  1829  and  senator  in  1839  and  1840,  was 
president  of  the  senate.  Eate  in  life  he  retired  from  the  mercantile 
business  and  lived  on  a  farm  in  New  Market  until  his  death.     Issue: 

I.  Zebulon  Dow.  b.  in  1813;  d.  6  Oct.,  1876;  mar.  Susan  E., 
dau.  of  Dr.  Woodbury;  had  dau.  Eizzie  A.,  b.  4  Sept.,  1858,  d.  4 
June,  1888,  mar.  Dr.  French  Alger,  dentist. 

II.  Eliza  Eastman;  mar.  Judge  Ira  St.  Clair,  of  Deerfield 
Parade,  N.  H. 

III.  Martha  March,  b.  in  1816;  d.  15  Jan.,  1892;  mar.  Henry 
Drew,  a  Methodist  preacher;  had  son  James  B.  C,  lawyer  in  Jackson- 
ville, Fla.,   U.S.  attorney  5th  district  including  Fla. 

IV.  Sarah  Julia,  b.  3  Oct.,  1837;  d.  10  June,  1863;  mar.  about 
1857,  ner  cousin,  George  Frank,  son  of  Joseph  Alcott  Walker  and 
wife,  Abigail  Murry. 

12.  John,  b.  on  Friday,  13  June,  1762;  d.  in  Mar.,  1765. 

13.  Benjamin,  b.  3  Feb.,  1764.     See  family  6. 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  443 

SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.    i.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph. 

Joseph  Brackett  was  born  July  14,  1740,  in  Greenland,  N.  H.; 
resided  in  the  town  until  about  1773,  when  he  removed  to  Lee,  where 
dwelt  his  brother,  Dr.  James  Brackett.  Resided  in  Dee  until  1789, 
when  he  sold  his  farm  to  his  brother;  this  farm  of  one  hundred  acres 
was  on  the  northern  line  of  the  town  of  New  Market  and  on  both  sides 
of  the  Damperel  river.  Purchased  six  hundred  and  forty  acres  in  Dan- 
caster,  Coos  county,  N.  H.,  about  one  hundred  and  thirty  miles  north 
from  Dee  across  the  White  mountains.  The  shortest  route  was 
through  "The  Notch,"  a  mountain  pass.  In  March,  1788,  he  started 
from  Dee  on  horseback  and  on  arriving  at  the  pass  learned  that  the 
road  could  not  be  traveled  with  a  horse;  he  pursued  his  way  on  foot 
with  snowshoes  along  a  path;  over  this  route  he  went,  continuously 
breaking  through  the  crusts.  After  many  tedious  hours  he  reached 
Whipple's  farm  where  he  found  a  comfortable  lodging;  the  following 
day  he  easily  reached  the  dwelling  of  his  brother-in-law,  Captain  John 
Weeks,  in  Lancaster.  On  the  recommendation  of  Captain  Weeks, 
land  adjoining  his  farm  was  purchased  by  him.  During  the  summer 
he  remained  in  Lancaster  and  prepared  a  habitation  for  his  wife  and 
children  to  whom  he  returned  in  the  fall  to  accompany  them  on  their 
journey  thither.  He,  with  his  family,  left  Dee  for  Lancaster,  January 
20,  1789,  and  were  eleven  days  on  the  road.  The  journey  was  made 
with  ox  teams;  the  wagons  were  followed  by  the  drove  of  stock. 
"Upon  arriving  at  'The  Notch'  such  was  the  quantity  of  snow  and 
height  of  drifts  that  the  teams  five  or  six  in  number,  came  to  a  halt, 
and  before  a  forward  movement  could  be  made,  parts  of  the  loads  had 
to  be  removed  and  left  by  the  side  of  the  road,  if  road  it  might  be 
called.  But  great  was  the  rejoicing  when  we  reached  the  Whipple 
farm"   (see  manuscript  narrative  of  Adino  N.  Brackett.) 

In  Lancaster  he  spent  the  remainder  of  his  days  engaged  in  farm- 
ing and  in  the  practice  of  law.  Though  his  name  is  found  affixed  to 
petitions  for  public  improvements,  and  he  took  an  interest  in  town 
affairs,  he  did  not  aspire  to  the  holding  of  any  town  office.  He  served 
as  a  soldier  during  the  War  of  the  Revolution;  was  lieutenant  in  the 
16th  company  of  New  Hampshire  cavalry;  was  a  comrade  of  John 
Langdon  and  Major,  afterwards  General,  John  Sullivan  in  the  capture 
of  Fort  William  and  Mary  in  Portsmouth  harbor  in  December,  1774. 
Its  capture  was  one  of  the  incidents  of  the  times  which  bespoke  the 
warlike  spirit  of  the  people.  Paul  Revere  went  down  to  Portsmouth 
and  harangued  the  Sons  of  Liberty  until  "they  invaded  Fort  William 
and  Mary  and  carried  off  the  powder  and  cannon."  They  took  pris- 
oner the  captain  in  charge  and  the  small  garrison,  and  carried  away 
one  hundred  barrels  of  powder,  fifteen  cannon  and  all  the  muskets  that 
could  be  found. 

Married  in  May,  1770,  Mary  Nye,  nee  Weeks,  who  died  in  Dan- 
caster  July  15,  1 814,  age  seventy  years;  she  was  a  daughter  of  Dr. 
John  Weeks  and  wife,  Martha  Wingate,  of  Hampton,  N.  H.,  daugh- 
ter of  Colonel  Joshua  Wingate,   commander  of  the  New  Hampshire 


1  L4  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

troops  at  the  siege  and  capture  of  Louisburg  in  1745.  The  first  hus- 
band  ol  the  wife  of  Joseph  Brackett  was  Adino  Nye,  of  Hingham, 
Mass.  Upon  their  marriage  they  removed  to  Georgetown,  Me.,  where 
they  resided  until  his  death  some  three  years  later.  They  had  two 
daughters,  Elizabeth  and  Mary.  The  first  named  was  never  a  mem- 
ber of  tlu-  family  of  Joseph  Brackett.  She  lived  in  Annapolis,  Nova 
Scotia,  with  an  aunt,  Mrs.  Bailey,  the  wife  of  an  Episcopal  clergy- 
man, and  married  Lieutenant,  afterwards  Colonel,  Mince  of  the  Brit- 
ish army  who  died  in  India;  she  died  in  England  having  never  seen 
her  mother  since  her  childhood.  Mary  lived  with  her  mother,  mar- 
ried Nathaniel  C.oss  of  Greenland;  he  died  in  1817.  In  1821,  the 
widow  sold  the  farm  and  with  her  one  son,  Nathaniel,  removed  to 
Lancaster;  tin-  son  lived  in  Lancaster  until  1840,  when  with  his  sons, 
Nathaniel  and  Stiekney  and  two  daughters,  all  of  his  children,  emi- 
grated to  Wisconsin.  Lydia  Goss,  one  of  the  five  daughters  of  Mary, 
married  William  J.  Brown,  of  Lancaster,  with  whom  the  mother 
resided. 

Lieutenant  Joseph  Brackett  died  in  Lancaster  July  15,  1814. 
Issue: 

1.  Martha,  b.  28  July,  1771;   d.  in  June,  1778. 

2.  John  W.,  b.  3  Sept.,  1773.     See  family  7. 

3.  Joseph  W.,  b.  10  Aug.,  1775.     See  family  8. 

4.  Adino  N.,  b.  1  Nov.,  1777.     See  family  9. 

5.  Martha  Weeks,  b.  28  Oct.,  1779;  mar.  John  W.  Weeks,  son  of 
Capt.  John  and  wife,  Deborah  Brackett  (see  fam.  1,  this  div.);  d.  in 
1809. 

6.  James,  b.  31  Mar.,  1782.     See  family  10. 

7.  Sally,  who  d.  in  infancy. 

FAMILY    NO.   3. 

From  Family  No.    1.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Ebenezer. 

Ebenezer  Brackett  was  born  November  28,  1743,  in  Greenland, 
X.  II.;  in  1772,  settled  on  a  farm  in  Epsom,  N.  H.,  where  he  resided 
continuously  to  his  death  April  13,  1826.  Relative  to  his  military 
service  during  the  War  of  the  Revolution,  roll  dated  September  8, 
1778,  of  Captain  Robert  Campbell's  company,  Colonel  Moses  Hazen's 
regiment,  shows  that  he  was  enlisted  for  the  war  and  "on  command  at 
Pish  Hill."  Other  records  show  his  name  in  "return  of  Colonel  John 
MeClary's  of  men  for  Portsmouth"  as  enlisted  for  service  September 
8,  177';;  mustered  for  .service  at  Portsmouth,  September  27,  1779,  by 
Colonel  Wentworth  for  two  months'  service,  and  assigned  to  Colonel 
Dame's  regiment  to  serve  in  defense  of  Portsmouth;  by  "order  of  the 
Committee  of  Safety."  Married  November  20,  1770,  Abigail  Clark, 
oi  Stratham,  N.  II.,  who  died  November  27,  1819.  By  his  will  dated 
December  8,  1806,  he  devised  and  bequeathed  his  farm  to  his  wife 
during  her  life,  upon  her  decease  to  his  son-in-law,  David  Keniston, 
then  to  his  son  James  Keniston  and  his  heirs;  to  son  James,  one  dollar 
"as  he  was  well  provided  for;"  to  son  Greenleaf  Clark,  one  dollar 
to  he  paid  in  six  months,  and  to  son  Hanover,  one  dollar  to  be  paid  in 
one  year  after  the  death  of  the  testator,  respectively;  to  each  of  his 
daughters  small  bequests;  residue  to  his  wife,  to  be  disposed  of  as  she 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  445 

might  see  fit.     The  witnesses  to  the  will  were  Tufton  Wiggin  and 
Enoch  Clark.     Issue  (not  in  order  of  birth): 

1.  James,  eldest  son,  who  mar.  Morrill  and  removed  to  St.  Albans, 
Vt.;   no  further  record. 

2.  Greenleaf  C,  b.  9  Aug.,  1785.     See  family  11. 

3.  Hanover,  b.  about   1796;  lived  in  Danville,  N.   H.;   mar.  Dor- 
othy   ,  b.  about  1787;  no  further  record. 

4.  Dau.,  who  mar.  James  Kenistou. 

5.  Hannah,  who  mar.  Oilman  Goodwin. 

6.  Eliza,  who  mar.  William  Morrill. 

7.  Deborah,  who  mar.  Eads. 

FAMILY     NO.    4. 

From   Family   No.    r.      Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
James. 

Dr.  James  Brackett  was  born  October  6,  1750,  in  Greenland,  N. 
H.  Early  in  life  he  removed  to  Lee,  N.  H.,  where  he  lived  contin- 
uously until  his  death,  May  28,  1803;  was  a  resident  of  the  town 
before  the  commencement  of  the  Revolution.  During  the  war  he 
served  as  surgeon  in  Colonel  Joseph  Gale's  regiment;  was  on  the  expe- 
dition in  August.  1778,  to  drive  the  British  from  Rhode  Island. 

In  Lee  he  lived  on  a  farm;  when  his  brother  Lieutenant  Joseph 
Brackett,  removed  from  Lee  to  Lancaster,  he  sold  to  Dr.  Brackett  his 
farm  in  Lee.  To  them  was  willed  by  their  father  his  interest  in  the 
sawmill  at  Wadleigh's  falls;   however,  he  did  not  survive  his  father. 

Directly  upon  making  his  home  in  Lee  the  people  began  to  confer 
such  political  honors  upon  him  as  were  in  their  power.  He  was 
chosen  selectman  in  1777  and  appointed  parish  clerk;  in  these  offices 
he  was  continued  until  1795.  In  the  latter  capacity  one  of  his  first 
acts  was  to  spread  on  the  town  books  data  pertaining  to  his  family, 
names  of  children,  dates  of  births,  the  very  hour  of  birth;  what  he 
wrote  can  still  be  read  in  his  handwriting,  and  from  this  source  we 
glean  the  information  that  the  maiden  name  of  his  wife  was  Elizabeth 
Brackett,  not  Elizabeth  Nye,  as  has  been  published;  that  she  was  a 
daughter  of  his  uncle  Anthony  Brackett,  of  Portland,  (see  fam.  1, 
div.  15).     To  her  he  was  married  in  May,  1 774. 

When  the  war  was  ended  the  people  of  the  town  had  need  of  his 
service  for  legislative  purposes.  He  was  elected  in  1785  representa- 
tive from  Lee  to  the  provincial  assembly  of  New  Hampshire,  and 
served  continuously  to  1789,  when  the  province  became  a  state  of  the 
Union.  This  quiet  unpresuming  country  gentleman  was  greatly 
beloved  and  respected  by  his  people,  and  they  had  many  reasons  to  be 
proud  of  their  worthy  representative.  x\t  the  close  of  the  long  har- 
assing war  there  were  in  nearly  every  town  in  the  province,  many 
maimed  soldiers,  homeless  widows  and  children  whose  protectors  had 
fallen  on  the  battle  field  or  died  in  prison.  In  the  assembly  there  were 
military  men  who  had  won  distinction.  In  those  days  lawyers  were 
scarce  in  legislative  bodies.  Dr.  Brackett  was  made  chairman  of  the 
committee  to  which  were  referred  claims  of  soldiers  for  indebtedness 
due  them,  and  petitions  for  aid  to  relieve  the  wants  of  the  widows  and 
orphans.  His  appointment  on  this  committee  on  which  were  three 
colonels,  illustrates  how  highlv  he  was  esteemed  in  the  assemblv:  his 


IK',  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

selection  for  it  when  there  were  so  many  colonels  and  majors  who 
were  members  of  the  body,  was  a  great  honor  to  the  country  physi- 
cian. Upon  the  petition  of  the  people  of  Lee,  made  in  August,  1785, 
he  was  appointed  a  justice-of-the-peace  and  upon  his  retirement  from 
the  legislative  body  in  1789,  he  was  appointed  one  of  the  judges  of 
the  inferior  court  for  Strafford  county.  What  with  his  several  offices, 
si  lectman,  parish  clerk,  judge  of  the  court  and  legislator,  and  occu- 
pations, physician,  farmer  and  lumberman,  he  found  his  time  well 
consumed,  and  probably  enjoyed  life  and  all  its  blessings.  Occasion- 
ally, he,  with  his  wife,  went  to  Portland,  where  lived  her  parents. 
Anion-  others  of  his  acquaintances  there,  was  Mr.  Willis  the  histo- 
rian. To  him  he  related  several  matters  pertaining  to  the  family  his- 
tory. Anion-  the  papers  of  the  historian  was  found  a  memorandum 
of  his  recollections  of  what  the  doctor  had  said  as  to  who  were  the 
wives  of  Zachariah  Brackett,  Sr. 

His  will  is  dated  November  28,  1802;  to  his  wife  he  gave  a  life 
estate  in  all  his  property;  to  son  James,  $100;  to  daughter  Sally,  $100; 
to  son  John  the  remainder  of  his  property  and  "ordained"  that  son 
Benjamin  shall  go  to  school  in  May,  1803,  and  continue  until  he 
should  be  sufficiently  educated  to  enter  on  the  study  of  physic.  His 
widow  survived  him  a  few  years;  she  died  about  1807.  Issue,  all  born 
in  Lee: 

1.  John.  b.  13  Dec,  1775.     See  family  12. 

2.  Betsey,  b.  25  June,  1778;  d.  17  Sept.,  1778. 

3.  Patty',  b.  24^  Sept.,  1780;   d.  6  Sept.  . 

4.  James,  b.  30  Oct.,  1783.     See  family  13. 

5.  Sally,  b.  on  Friday,  Sept.,  1785;  mar.  John  Watson,  b.  in  1783; 
d.  23  Feb.,  i860;  children,  Hannah;  Lydia;  Elizabeth;  John;  James; 
Elizabeth. 

<>.      Benjamin,  1).  on  Friday,  12  Dec,  1788.      No  further  record. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.    1.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joshua. 

Joshua  Brackett  was  born  May  29,  1755,  in  Greenland;  inherited 
his  father's  farm  on  which  he  resided  until  his  death,  June  17,  1817; 
was  a  prosperous  farmer.  When  the  War  of  the  Revolution  com- 
menced he  was  in  the  twenty-first  year  of  his  age.  In  June,  1775, 
signed  the  petition  whose  contents  is  set  forth  in  the  account  of 
the  life  of  his  cousin,  Thomas  Brackett,  (fam.  2,  div.  17).  Name 
appears  in  muster  roll  of  men  enlisted  by  Colonel  William  Whipple. 
by  order  of  the  general  court,  for  the  state  of  New  Hampshire —  "into 
the  seryice  of  the  American  States  to  reinforce  the  army  at  New  York. 
Mustered  and  paid  by  Joshua  Wentworth  (first  regiment)  September, 
1776;  entitled  to  bounty  of  six  pounds."  Record  also  shows  that  he 
served  in  .September,  1776,  in  Captain  Jonathan  Robinson's  company. 
1st  New  Hampshire  regiment.  There  was  no  Joshua  Brackett  in 
Greenland  or  Portsmouth  other  than  he,  to  perform  this  sendee. 

Married  November  22,  1781,  Alice  Pickering,  born  February  6, 
1757,  died  April  9,  1838,  daughter  of  Thomas  and  second  wdfe  (mar- 
ried May  18,  1743),  Molly  Javorin;  she  was  daughter  of  Jean  and 
wife,  Elizabeth  Knight,  of  Portsmouth.     Jean  Javorin  was  a  mariner, 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  447 

shipowner,   a  man  of  education,   was  born  on  Isle  of  Jersey,   son  of 
Jean  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Lee  Costeur.     Issue: 

1.  Mary,  b.  in  1782;   d.  unmar.  in  1866. 

2.  Deborah,  b.  about  1783;  d.  unmar.  in  1849. 

3.  Martha,  b.  4  Sept.,  1785;  mar.  Thomas  Pickering,  son  of  Nich- 
olas and  wife,  Hannah  Bickford;  Nicholas  was  son  of  Thomas  and 
first  wife,  Mary  Downing;  lived  in  Newington;  she  d.  1  Aug.,  1856. 
Issue,  all  b.  in  Newington: 

•  1st.     Edwin  Augustus,  b.  21  Oct.,  1808;  d.  15  Dec,  1886. 
2nd.     James  Alfred,  b.  13  Sept.,  1810;  mar.  23  May,  1848,  Susan 
Mathes,  of  Durham;  d.  12  June,  1889.     Issue: 

I.  Frederick,  b.   29  May,  1849;  mar.  28  Dec,  1897,  Faith  E. 
Staples,  of  Newington;  home,  in  Newington.     Issue: 

a.  Alfred  Thomas,  b.  15  Oct.,  1898. 

b.  Frederick  Mathes,  b.  12  Oct.,  1899. 

II.  Alice  Brackett,  b.  6  Nov.,  1851;  lives  with  her  brother. 

III.  Sarah  Mathes,  b.  14  May,  1856;  d.  19  June,  1889. 

3d.  Joshua  Brackett,  b.  26  Oct.,  181 1;  mar.  19  June,  1848,  E. 
Jane  Pickering,  his  second  cousin;  d.  31  Mar.,  1889.     Issue: 

I.  Alvin  Gee,  b.  2  Dec,  1850;   d.  same  year. 

II.  Deborah   Parrot  Brackett,  b.    5    Dec,    1849;  mar.    Frank 
Simpson. 

III.  Joshua   Brackett,   b.    2   Feb.,    1853;  lives  on  the  farm  in 
Newington  which  was  his  lather's. 

4th.  Frank  Torcan,  b.  3  Jan.,  1816;  d.  11  Dec,  1885;  mar.  iS 
Mar.,  1848,  Sophia  E.  O.  de  Witt,  b.  12  June,  1820;  d.  29  Jan.,  1892, 
dan.  of  Casten  and  wife,  Maria  Louisa  Susette  de  Rochemont.     Issue: 

I.  Thomas  Frank. 

II.  James  Brackett. 

III.  Martha  Sophia,  b.  in  1854;  d.  15  Aug.,  1868. 

IV.  Mary  .Susette  Brackett,  b.    12  June,    1857;  mar.  Jackson 
M.  Hoyt;  home,  in  Newington.     Issue: 

a.  John  Frank,  b.  4  Feb.,  1880. 

b.  Martin  de  Witt,  b.  22  Aug.,  1881. 

c.  Martha  Sophia,  b.  22  Jan.,  1883. 

d.  Mary  Brackett,  b.  29  Dec,  1884. 

e.  Abigail  Adelia,  b.  5  Feb.,  1886. 

f.  Jackson  Manning,  b.  4  Feb.,  1888. 

g.  Lillian  Hoyt,  b.  and  d.  1  Jan.,  1890. 
//.     Willis  Hadley,  b.  13  Dec,  1895. 

i.     Viola  Cecil,  b.  22  Aug.,  1899. 

V.  Adelia  Sarah,  b.  19  Feb.,  i860;  d.  5  May,  1891. 
5th.     Martha  Brackett,  b.  29  May,  1817;  d.  21  Dec,  1876. 

6th.  John  Brackett,  b.  7  Mar.,  1821;  mar.  (1st)  28  May,  1868, 
Sarah  J.  Hodgdon;  (2nd)  14  May,  1890,  Ida  Williams;  d.  10  Jan., 
1 901. 

4.  Alice,  b.  about  1788;  d.  unmar.  in  1837. 

5.  James,  b.  about  1789;  was  master  of  a  vessel;  captured  by  the 
British  in  the  war  of  18 12;  d.  17  Apr.,  1831. 

6.  John,  b.  about  1793;  d.  unmar.  24  Aug.,  1821. 

7.  Sally,  b.  in  1795;  d.  in  1796;  age  13  mos. 

8.  Thomas,  b.  12  July,  1791.     See  family  14. 


448  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.   6. 

From  Family  No.   i.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Benjamin. 

Benjamin  Braekett  was  born  on  Friday,  February  3,  1764;  mar- 
ried Hannah  Davis,  of  Boston,  died  July  9,  181 8;  in  1790,  moved 
from  Greenland  to  Warren,  Me.,  where  he  died  May  3,  1839;  was  a 
farmer.     Issue: 

1.  Ann  Davis,  who  mar.  Capt.  Henry  Little,  of  New  Castle;  d.  in 
Rockland,  Me.,  28  Jan.,  i860. 

2.  Mary,  bapt.  23  June,  1794;   d.  in  Waldoboro,  Me.,  in  1842. 
.'!.     Clarissa,  bapt.  2  June,  1796;  d.  young. 

4.  Benjamin,  bapt.  29  May,  1797;  d.  at  sea  in  Apr.,  1833,  on  pas- 
sage from  Canton  to  Boston. 

0.  Matilda  D.,  bapt.  18  Aug.,  1799;  mar.  11  May,  1826,  Alexan- 
der Palmer,  of  Waldoboro,  where  they  resided. 

6.  Caroline  R.,  bapt.  2  Aug.,  1801;  d.  in  Waldoboro,  27  Aug., 
1 841. 

7.  Sarah  H.,  bapt.  31  July,  1803;  mar.  25  Oct.,  1831,  Leonard  F. 
Trafton,  of  Shapleigh,  Me.,  and  moved  to  Louisville,  Ky. 

8.  William  D.,  bapt.  11  May,  1806.     See  family  15. 

9.  James,  bapt.  6  Sept.,  1807;  was  a  trader  in  Warren  before 
i860;  removed  to  Rockland,  thence  to  Portland,  later  to  the  White 
mountains  in  New  Hampshire,  where  he  was  clerk  in  a  hotel. 

10.  Angelina  H.,  bapt.  30  July,  1809;  mar.  14  June,  1832,  Thomas 
Currier,  of  Waldoboro;   d.  30  Sept.,  1850. 

11.  Clarissa  M.  E.,  bapt.  29  Aug.,  1811;  mar.  4  June,  1836,  Win. 
F.  Leavitt,  of  Bantror. 


SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From  Family   No.   2.     Descent:      Anthony,   Thomas,   Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  John  W. 

John  Weeks  Braekett  was  born  September  3,  1773,  in  Lee,  N. 
H.,  where  he  was  reared;  the  family  removed  to  Lancaster,  N.  H.; 
shortly  before  his  death  he  contemplated  removing  to  Ohio  and  had 
purchased  land  there  with  that  end  in  view;  he  died  in  1829.  Mar- 
ried Eunice  Clark;  his  widow  and  children  removed  to  Huntsburg  on 
the  land  which  he  had  purchased.     Issue: 

1.  Eunice  Mindwell,  b.  14  Mar.,  1798;  d.  28  Sept.,  1879;  mar. 
15  Jan.,  1832,  Orrin  Wilson,  farmer  and  store-keeper,  b.  29  Mar., 
1807,  d.  4  Jan.,  1872;  resided  in  Huntsburg  and  Bloomington,  Wis. 
Issue: 

1st.  Amos  M.,  b.  17  Dec,  1832;  mar.  Elnora  Tibbitt;  d.  17 
Nov.,  1895. 

2nd.  Mary  X..  b.  7  Oct.,  1834;  mar.  29  Mar.,  1855,  Leonard  S. 
( )^liorn  who  d.  2  Mar.,  1889,  son  of  Leonard  and  wife,  Amanda  Smith, 
of  Bloomfield,  Ohio;  home,  in  Maxwell,  la.     Issue: 

I.  Nellie  C,  b.  22  Aug.,  1858;  mar.  10  Jan.,  1883,  Clinton 
B.  Woodhouse;  home,  in  Maxwell,  la.;  children,  Ralph  O.,  b.  21 
June,  1884;  and  Samuel  L.,  b.  26  Dec,  1888. 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  449 

II.  L,innette,  b.  4  May,    1861;  d.  4  Aug.,    1861. 

III.  Wilson  L.,  b.  8  July,  1862;  d.  27  Sept.,  1897;  mar.  Edith 
Sprague;  children,  Raymond  S.;   Nellie;  and  Harold,  b.  4  Dec.,  1896. 

3d.  Laura  L-,  b.  25  Sept.,  1838;  in  Methodist  home,  601  M 
St.,  N.  W.,  Washington,  D.  C. 

4th.     Annette,  b.  4  June,  1841;  d.  20  Oct.,  1869. 

5th.  Martha  M.,  b.  22  May,  1845;  d.  in  1890;  mar.  in  1874, 
Rev.  Mr.  J.  C.  Webb. 

2.  Joseph  W.,  b.  12  May,  1800.     See  family  16. 

3.  Eliza  M.,  b.  19  Apr.,  1802;  d.  14  June,  1829. 

4.  Mary  Weeks,  b.  16  Mar.,  1804,  in  Lancaster,  N.  H.;  d.  24 
Dec,  1880,  in  Corinth,  Mich.  One  who  knew  and  loved  her  well, 
whose  remembrance  of  her  is  ever  sunshine  in  his  life,  wrote — 

"Mary  Weeks  Brackett  was  a  woman  of  as  sweet  and  charming 
presence  as  I  ever  met.  She  had  an  unerring  literary  taste,  had  at 
her  command  the  choicest  specimens  of  English  literature,  of  both 
prose  and  poetry,  was  keen  in  her  perceptions  of  beauty  both  by  edu- 
cation and  natural  endowment.  I  never  knew  a  woman  more  loyal  to 
family  than  was  she;  from  her  heart  of  hearts  sprang  the  radiant  smile 
of  welcome  to  every  Brackett  and  every  Weeks.  Her  generous  esti- 
mate of  friends — and  they  were  quite  as  numerous  as  the  people  she 
met, — was  so  spontaneous  and  eager  that  it  was  a  starting  point  of 
'health  contagion'  to  every  young  head  and  heart  that  came  under 
her  influence.  No  more  faithful  wife  and  mother,  no  more  constant 
and  generous  friend  ever  lived."  Mar.  in  1840,  Philander  Wright, 
teacher,  later  a  farmer,  b.  7  Jan.,  1805,  d.  4  Mar.,  1869,  son  of  Paul 
and  wife,  Martha  Montague;  parents  resided  in  North  Hampton, 
Mass.,  subsequently  in  Huntsburg,  O.;  his  mother  was  a  dau.  of 
Peter  Montague  who  was  of  the  fourth  generation  of  the  descendants 
of  Richard  Montague,  of  Hadley,  Mass.  Was  a  graduate  of  Yale,  a 
man  of  fine  educational  attainments,  extensive  information  and  prac- 
tical knowledge;  removed  from  Huntsburg  to  Milwaukee;  thence  to 
Corinth,  Michigan.  He  and  his  wife  died  at  the  home  of  their  son  in 
Corinth  and  are  buried  near  by  in  the  country  churchyard  in  Gaines, 
Mich.     Issue: 

1st.  Philander  Brackett,  b.  7  June,  1841,  in  Milwaukee,  Wis.; 
physician  and  surgeon.  Attended  for  a  few  terms  the  Tafton  (Bloom- 
ington)  Collegiate  seminary,  and  taught  a  few  terms  of  public  school 
prior  to  commencement  of  civil  war;  enlisted  19  Apr.,  1861,  for  three 
months;  before  expiration  of  term  of  service  re-enlisted  for  three  years 
or  during  the  war;  served  in  co.  H,  2nd  Wis.  vol.  inf.  This 
regiment  is  noted  in  Fox's  "History  of  Two  Thousand  Fighting 
Regiments"  as  having  lost  the  greatest  per  cent,  of  killed  in  battle  of 
any  regiment  in  the  Federal  army.  Mr.  Wright  was  color  sergeant 
in  the  first  day's  fighting  at  Gettysburg,  early  during  which,  in  the 
charge  at  Willoughby  run  he  was  wounded  in  head,  side,  both  arms 
and  both  legs;  discharged  as  first  sergeant  n  June,  1864,  at  Balti- 
more where  he  had  lain  in  the  hospital  since  July,  1863;  graduated 
11  Feb.,  1868,  from  Eclectic  Medical  institute,  of  Cincinnati;  twice 
president  of  the  Eclectic  Medical  society  of  Michigan;  took  post- 
graduate work  in  New  York;  has  been  kept  busy  in  his  practice;  the 
only  elective  office  he  has  held  is  that  which  he  now  (1906)  holds, 
viz.,   member  of  board  of  education;  home  in  Grand  Rapids,   Mich.; 


450  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

has  resided  in  Bloomington,  Wis.,  and  Corinth,  Mich.  Mar.  (ist) 
4  Mar.,  1868,  Victoria  A.  Wright  who  d.  13  Mar.,  1881;  (2nd) 
4  May,  1882,  Carrie  P.  Hatfield,  b.  25  Feb.,  1856,  dau.  of  George  E. 
and  wife,  Lois  J.  Lapham  (d.  in  Dee.,  1886);  her  parents  were  b. 
in  New  York,  removed  to  Michigan;  resided  in  Mecosta  co.  where  the 
father  now  resides.     Issue: 

I.  Paul  Emerson,  b.  20  Jan.,  1869;  mar.  in  June,  1903,  Ida 
Macey;  home,  in  Grand  Rapids;  is  a  teacher,  a  graduate  of  Michigan 
university;  child,  Theodore  Macey,  b.  in  1904. 

II.  Lawrence  Oliver,  b.  3  Sept.,  1870;  is  a  dentist,  a  grad- 
uate of  Indiana  Dental  college;  home,  in  White  Pigeon,  Mich.;  mar. 

(ist),   in    1892,   Edna  Hanchett;  mar.    (2nd)    in    1904,    Mabel  ; 

children,  Dorothy  R.,  b.  in  1893;  Donald  E-,  b.  in  1896;  Delia  C,  b. 
in  1904. 

III.  Max  G.,  b.  1  Jan.,  1872;  graduate,  A.  B.,  A.  M.,  Deland 
Stanford,  Jr.,  university,  Cal.;   never  mar.;  d.  in  Oct.,  1903. 

IV.  John  Mill.  b.  31  Aug.,  1873;  physician,  graduate  of 
Detroit  medical  college;  home,  in  Grand  Rapids;  mar.  (ist)  in  June, 
1892,  Frances  Dreggs,  who  d.  in  1903;  mar.  (2nd)  in  Aug.,  1905, 
Madge  King;   child,  Max  S.,  b.  in  1893. 

V.  Harry  Peck,  b.  18  June,  1877,  is  a  machinist;  mar.  18 
June,  1902,  Mabel  Singer;  home,  in  Grand  Rapids. 

VI.  Gladys  M.,  b.  19  May,  1884. 

VII.  Annie  Brackett,  b.  31  Oct.,  1885;  d.  11  Mar.,  1891. 

VIII.  Mark  Hatfield,  b.  23  Sept.,  1887. 

IX.  Mary  Montague,  b.  14  Oct.,  1889. 

X.  Rolf  e"  Brackett,  b.  17  Sept.,  1891;  d.  in  Oct.,  1892. 

2nd.  Mary  Eliza,  b.  27  May,  1844;  educator,  author  and  lec- 
turer. Prior  to  marriage  was  superintendent  of  public  schools  in 
Plainwell,  Mich.;  was  the  first  woman  to  hold  such  administrative 
position;  principal  of  public  high  schools  in  Franklin,  Ind.;  teacher  of 
German  in  public  high  schools  in  Indianapolis.  Associate  founder  with 
her  husband  of  the  Classical  School  for  Girls  in  Indianapolis,  founded 
in  1882,  of  which  she  is  (1906)  principal;  has  held  many  offices  in 
connection  with  educational  associations;  member  of  committee  of 
inspection  of  secondary  schools  affiliated  with  the  University  of  Chi- 
cago. From  1878  to  1888,  connected  with  the  National  Woman's 
Suffrage  association;  was  for  seven  years  chairman  of  its  executive 
committee;  wrote  and  spoke  in  favor  of  woman's  political  emancipa- 
tion. One  of  the  founders  of  the  Woman's  club  of  Indianapolis,  and 
its  president;  has  organized  many  affiliated  clubs;  member  of  Sorosis, 
famous  woman's  club  of  New  York  city,  and  of  several  other  clubs 
devoted  to  literature,  art,  and  science;  member  of  the  National  His- 
torical society,  National  Civic  Reform  association,  Lyceum  club  of 
London,  Le  Societe  Psychologique,  of  Paris.  Organizer  of  the  Con- 
temporary club.  Art  association  and  the  local  council  of  women,  all  of 
Indianapolis,  in  which  societies  she  occupies  an  official  position; 
honorary  president  of  the  International  Council  of  Women  and  chair- 
man of  its  committee  on  peace  and  arbitration.  What  is  called  the 
"council  idea,'1  its  aim  is,  from  the  point  of  view  of  Mrs.  Sewall,  to 
bring  together  unlike  people  committed  to  different  interests  in  order 
that  they  may  demonstrate  to  one  another  how  far  their  resemblance 
transcends  their  difference  and  to  what  they  are  capable  of  uniting 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  451 

in  the  accomplishment  of  a  common  unselfish  purpose.  In  1884, 
was  appointed  by  governor  of  Indiana  to  represent  the  state  at  the 
International  Cotton  exhibition  at  New  Orleans;  in  1891,  was  appointed 
member  of  Indiana  Board  of  Commerce,  to  serve  the  state  in  connec- 
tion with  the  World's  Columbian  exposition  of  1893.  In  1900,  was 
appointed  by  the  president  of  the  United  States,  special  representative 
of  the  organized  work  of  her  countrywomen  in  the  series  of  congresses 
held  under  the  auspices  of  the  Exposition  Universelle,  at  Paris.  Is  a 
voluminous  writer,  a  contributor  to  newspapers,  journals,  magazines, 
on  many  topics.  Mar.  31  Oct.,  1880,  Theodore  L.  Sewall,  b.  20  Sept., 
1852,  d.  23  Dec,  1895. 

5.  Martha  W.,  b.  21  Nov.,  1805,  in  Lancaster,  N.  H.;  d.  19  July, 
1869,  in  Bloomington,  Wis.;  mar.  30  Aug.,  1835,  Amos  Morse,  of 
Huutsburg,  b.  about  Apr.,  1802,  d.  in  Apr.,  1848.     Issue: 

1st.  Eunice,  b.  11  June,  1836;  mar.  John  W.  Brackett  (see  f am. 
30,  this  div.  ) 

2nd.  Edward  Spaulding,  b.  24  Dec,  1837,  in  Huntsburg;  a 
farmer  in  Bloomington,  Little  Grant,  Lancaster  and  Fennimore,  Wis., 
in  the  order  named:  home,  in  Fennimore;  mar.  23  Mar.,  1859,  Emma 
M.  Rogers,  b.  18  Oct.,  1840.     Issue: 

I.  Linnie  Elizabeth,  b.  22  Aug.,  i860,  in  Little  Grant;   mar. 
27  July,  1880,  W.  F.  Smith;   home,  in  Kearney,  Neb.     Issue: 

a.  Mabel  Annette,  b.  23  Aug.,  1882,  in  Mt.  Ida,  Wis. 

b.  Ilah  Minerva,  b.  25  June,  1885;   d.  25  Sept.,  1885. 

c.  Don  Frank,  b.  7  Nov.,  1887,  in  Mt.  Ida,  Wis. 

d.  Glen  Edward,  b.  25  July,  1893,  in  Mt-  Ida,  Wis. 

e.  Velma  Eunice,  b.  8  Apr.,  1896;  d.  6  Dec,  1904. 
f.      Morse  Marvin,  b.  21  July,  1904,  in  Kearney,  Neb. 

II.  Albert   Leander,   b.    17    May,    1864;  mar.    20  Apr.,    1886, 
Kate  L.  Brackett;  home,  in  Milwaukee,  Wis.     Issue: 

a.  Clifford  Brackett,  b.  7  June,  1889,  in  Aiusworth,  Neb. 

b.  James  Edward,  b.  7  Apr.,  189-,  in  Ayrshire,  la. 

c.  Ivan  Hamilton,  b.  28  Nov.,  1898,  in  Fennimore. 

III.  Amos  Edward,  b.  8  July,  1866;  mar.  27  Feb.,  1895,  Amy 
M.  Keysor;  d.  7  May,   1902. 

IV.  Mabel  Alice,  b.    19  May,    1868,   in  Lancaster;  home,  in 
Fennimore. 

V.  Jay  Frank,  b.   18  Aug.,  1X70,  in  Lancaster;  mar.   1   Feb., 
1893,  Ida  Belle  Baxter;   home,  in  Mt.  Hope,  Wis.     Issue: 

a.  Edward  Baxter,  b.  9  Apr.,  1894,  in  Lancaster. 

b.  Ralph  Daniel,  b.  16  Feb.,  1896,  in  Fennimore. 

c.  Ada  Jessica,  b.  28  Dec,  1897,  in  Fennimore. 

d.  Ida  Elizabeth,  b.  10  Oct.,  1899,  in  Mt.  Hope. 

e.  Artys  Mabel,  b.  3  Dec,  1901,  in  Mt.  Hope. 

VI.  Emma  Mariette,  b.  9  May,  1873,  in  Lancaster;  mar.  10 
Mar.,  1897,  Jona  M.  Cooley;  home,  in  Reno,  Minn.     Issue: 

a.  Rex  Morse,  b.  15  Dec,  1897,  in  Mt.  Hope. 

b.  Hilda,  b.  1  Jan.,  1900,  in  Mt.  Hope. 

c.  Helen,  b.  26  May,  1902,  in  Reno,  Minn. 

VII.  Cassius  Wallace,  b.  21  May,  1875,  in  Lancaster;  mar. 
28  Feb.,  1900,  Elizabeth  Stippich;   home,  in  Barnum,  Wis.     Issue: 

a.  Thelma,  b.  24  Mar.,  1902,  in  Black  River  Falls,  Wis. 

b.  Jay  William,  b.  8  Aug.,  1904,  in  Black  River  Falls. 

c.  Sophia  Minerva,  b.  22  June,  1906,  in  Barnum. 


452  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

VIII.  Martha  Angelette,  b.  n  Dec,  1881,  in  Lancaster;  mar. 
29  Jan.,  1902.  Floyd  G.  Budd;  home,  in  Blue  River,  Wis.;  have, 
Janice  Emma,  b.  15  Jan.,  1905,  in  Black  River  Falls. 

3d.  Amos  E.,  b.  4  Oct.,  1840,  in  Huntsburg,  O.;  removed  to 
Grant  co.,  Wis.;  has  resided  since  1889,  in  Granite  Falls,  Minn., 
where  he  is  a  dealer  in  produce;  mar.  (1st)  10  Apr.,  1864,  Persis 
Sophia  Brackett,  b.  19  Feb.,  1846,  d.  29  Nov.,  1874  (see  fam.  17,  this 
div.  ):  (2nd)  Lydia  E.  Brackett,  b.  29  June,  1848,  sister  of  first  wife. 
Issue: 

I.  Ivy,  d.  at  age  of  3  yrs.,  8  mos.,  12  days. 

II.  George  A.,  b.  21  Oct.,  1869;  mar.  (1st)  in  Mar.,  1889, 
Katharine  Fries;  (2nd)  19  Feb.,  1899,  Dorris  Sullivan;  home,  in 
Granite  Falls,  Minn.;  children  are  Melville  Eugene,  b.  20  Aug.,  1901, 
and  Dorris  Charlotte,  b.  30  June,  1903. 

III.  Warren  Win,  b.  21  Mar.,  1878;  mar.  22  May,  1897, 
Ruth  Rice;  home,  in  Granite  Falls;  children,  Millicent  Mildred,  b.  17 
Nov.,  1897,  and  Warren  Win,  b.  7  July,  1903. 

IV.  Minnie  Mary,  b.  24  Feb.,  1883. 

1th.     Albert  Clark,  b.    14  Oct.,  1842;  has  resided  in  Lancaster, 
Wis.,  since  1882,  where  he  is  engaged  in  life  and  fire  insurance;  mar. 

5  Oct.,  1869,  Mary  L.  Hicks,  b.  10  Oct.,  1850,  in  Canada,  dau.  of 
Robert,  1).  in  Devonshire,  Eng.,  and  wife,  Margaret  Travers,  b.  in 
Canada.      Issue: 

I.  Bertha,  b.  28  Sept.,  1871,  in  Bloomingtou;  mar.  18  June, 
[901,  Wm.  G.  Dickie;   home,  in  Topeka,  Kan.     Issue: 

a.     Margaret  Morse,  b.  24  Dec,  1904. 

II.  Blanche,  b.  in  May,  1873;   d.  in  Sept.,  1874. 

III.  Robert  Warren,  b.  28  Sept.,  1875,  in  Little  Grant,  Wis. 

IV.  Albert  Wm.,  b.  5  June,  1878;  d.  28  Jan.,  1880. 

V.  Edward  James,  b.  10  Oct.,  1880,  in  Fennimore. 

VI.  William  Albert,  b.  24  July,  1883,  in  Lancaster. 

VII.  Grace  Eunice,  b.  27  July,  1885,  in  Lancaster. 

VIII.  Lowry  Hicks,  b.  11  Aug.,  1888,  in  Lancaster. 

5th.     Cassius    Marcellus,    b.    24    Oct.,  1844,    in    Huntsburg;    a 

farmer  in  Nevada,  la.;   mar.  12  Sept.,  1869,  Lena  O.  Woodhouse,  b. 

6  Jan..  1S51,  dau.  of  Samuel  Woodhouse  and  wife,  Mary  Baker. 
Issue: 

I.  Maud,  1).  14  Jan.,  1871;  mar.  22  June,  1893,  George  L. 
Gamble;   home,  in  Centerville,  S.  D.;   children  are  Donald  and  Robert. 

II.  AUa  M..  b.  28  Aug.,  1877;  mar.  21  Nov.,  1900.  C.  A. 
Batman. 

III.  Mary,  b.  16  Aug.,  1880;  mar.  4  Dec,  1901,  F.  M.  Board- 
man:   home,  in  Nevada,  la.;  have  Edward  M. 

IV.  Martha,  is  twin  with  Mary. 
Y.     Edna  E.,  b.  9  June,  1884. 

VI.  Lena  R.,  b.  2  Mar.,  1888;  d.  19  June,  1905. 

VII.  Cassius  M.,  b.  30  Jan.,  1891. 

6th.      Martha  Ann,  b.  1  Oct.,  1848;   mar.  7  Apr.,  1874,  Adino  N. 
Brackett  (see  fam.  33,  this  div.) 

6.  James  W.,  b.  26  May,  1808;   d.  21  Apr.,  18 10. 

7.  Sophia  C,  b.  11  June,  1810;  d.  12  May,  1853;  mar.  5  Jan.. 
1831,  Jared  Clark,  millwright,  b.  5  Feb.,  1800,  d.  18  Oct.,  1855.  son 
of  Abner  and  wife,  Olive  Strong,  of  Huntsburg.     Issue: 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  453 

1st.     Eliza  B.,  b.  26  Oct.,  1832;  d.  8  Oct.,  1870. 

2nd.  Cyrus,  b.  10  Mar.,  1834;  mar.  Martha  Clark;  d.  in  June, 
1903. 

3d.  Olive  H.,  b.  29  June,  1836;  mar.  L.  D.  Willard;  d.  24  Oct., 
1872. 

4th.  Lucy  S.,  b.  27  Mar.,  1838;  mar.  15  Apr.,  i860,  Carlos 
Coolidge,  b.  16  Sept.,  1833,  son  of  Jonathan  and  wife,  Sarah  Slocum, 
of  Perry,  0.     Issue: 

I.  Smith  M.,  b.  27  Nov..  1S60;   mar.  Alice  Baker;  home,  in 
Huntsburg;  children,  Manila,  b.  13  Sept.,  1896;  Carl;  and  Etta  May. 

II.  Lydia  W.,  b.  13  Aug.,  1862;   mar.  W.  S.  Searl;  home,  in 
Chardon,  O.;  have  Mary  Z.,  b.  5  Apr.,  1895. 

III.  Jared  C,  b.  17  Apr.,  1866;  mar.  Elinor  Clark;  home,  in 
Perry,  O.     Issue:   Olive  L.,  b.  28  Dec,  1895;   d.  19  Mar.,  1904. 

5th.  Marcia  H.,  b.  24  Jan.,  1840;  mar.  N.  Griffin;  d.  2  Nov.. 
1 881. 

8.  Sarah  C,  b.  30  Mar.,  1813;  d.  25  Oct.,  1850;  mar.  15  Oct.. 
1835,  Hiram  A.  Tucker;  children,  Harriet,  b.  in  Oct.,  1836;  Frank- 
lin; Amelia;   Hiram. 

'J.     Adino  X.,  b.  12  Feb.,  1815.     See  family  17. 

10.  Persis  A.,  b.  28  Oct.,  1817;  mar.  18  Apr.,  1848,  Chester  Chil- 
son  who  d.  24  Jan.,  1886;  she  d.  13  May,  1886;  children  were  R.  D. 
Burdette  and  Inez  I).;   both  d.  young. 

11.  Ann  L..  b.  29  Jan.,  1820;  d.  7  Nov.,  1820. 

12.  Ann  Clark,  b.  1  Oct.,  1821,  in  Lancaster,  N.  H.;  d.  2  Nov., 
1900,  in  Bible  Grove,  111.,  at  the  residence  of  her  dau.,  Mrs.  Lou  A. 
Howard;  about  1839,  she  went  to  Ohio;  taught  school  for  two  years  in 
the  Hillsboro  academy;  mar.  20  Sept.,  1840,  Charles  F.  Falley,  phy- 
sician and  surgeon,  a  graduate  of  Willoughby,  (Ohio)  medical  col- 
lege about  [838.  He  was  1).  1  Apr.,  1815,  d.  in  1896,  son  of  Samuel 
and  wife,  Ruth  Root,  of  Granville,  O.;  served  for  three  years  during 
the  civil  war  as  surgeon  in  the  5th  111.  vol.  cav.;  resided  in  Effingham, 
111.;    Lancaster,  Wis.;  Breckenridge,  Minn.;  Bible  Grove,  111.     Issue: 

1st.  Charles  Brackett,  b.  27  Apr.,  1845;  d.  7  Dec,  1880;  mar. 
Elizabeth  Fitch.     Issue: 

I.  Charles  Brackett,  b.-29  Dec,  1879;  graduate  from  Bunker 
Hill  Military  academy  in  1901;  civil  engineer  on  C.  &  E.  111.  R.  R.; 
home,  in  Chicago,  111.;  mar.  Evelyn  Lewis,  of  Bible  Grove. 

2nd.  Lou  A.,  b.  1  Jan.,  1849;  mar.  Jerome  Howard;  home,  in 
Bible  Grove,  111. 

3d.  Richard  Louis,  b.  29  Dec,  1859,  in  Effingham,  111.;  physi- 
cian and  surgeon  in  Bible  Grove,  111.;  a  graduate  of  St.  Paul  Medical 
college,  class  of  1886;  for  a  time  resided  in  Park  River,  N.  D.;  mar. 
29  Mar.,  1894,  Isabelle  McKnelly,  b.  21  Jan.,  1873,  dau.  of  Lorenzo 
Dow  McKnelly  and  wife,  Mary  Culbertson,  of  Blair  Tr.,  111.     Issue: 

I.  Francis  M.,  b.  23  July,  1895. 

II.  Inez,  b.  12  Nov.,  1896. 

III.  Richard  Falley,  b.  13  Feb.,  1898. 

IV.  Gladys,  b.  7  Jan.,  1900. 

V.  Fred,  b.  20  May,  1902;  d.  3  Apr.,  1904. 

VI.  Neal  Dow,  b.  25  Nov.,  1904. 

VII.  John  Warren,  b.  5  Aug.,  1905. 


454  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 

Joseph,  Joseph  W. 

Joseph  Warren  Brackett  was  born  August  10,    1775,   in  Lee,  N. 

H.;  settled  in  New  York,  where  he  engaged  in  the  practice  of  law; 

was  a  classmate  of  Daniel  Webster  at  Dartmouth.     In  June,  1800, 

^Joseph  W.  visited  his  brother,  John  W.,   at  Lancaster,  in  company 

/with  Daniel  Webster  who  one  da}',  up  Martin's  Meadow  hill,  carried 

in   his   arms   John    W.'s  infant    son,  Joseph  W.,  then  about  three 

weeks  old.     To-day  the  descendants  of  the  infant  are  numerous,  and 

the  relation  of  this  incident  is  well  stored  in  the  minds  of  nearly  all 

of  them. 

Joseph  W.  Brackett  married  Charlotte  Wigginf  he  died  in  1829^ 
Issue: 

1.  Warren  Joseph,  b.  15  Sept.,  1810;  d.  21  June,  1812. 

2.  William  Wiggin,  b.  2  Feb.,  1813;  a  lawyer  in  New  York  city; 
mar.  20  Mar.,  1834,  Henrietta  Horton;  d.  17  May,  1890.     Issue: 

1st.     Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  14  Jan.,  1835. 

3.  Charles,  b.  14  Aug.,  18 14;  lost  on  the  steamer  "Lexington," 
in  Long  Island  sound,  13  Jan.,  1840. 

4.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.   25  July,    1815;    mar.    15    May,    1837,   Dr. 
Austin  Brainard;   d.  8  Jan.,  1889.     Issue: 

1st.     Charlotte  L.,  b.  16  Apr.,  1838;  d.  22  Mar.,  1844. 
2nd.     Charles  Warren,  b.  25  Dec,  1844;   d.  in  1893. 

5.  Joseph  Warren,   b.   10   Apr.,    1820;   mar.    21    Oct.,    1847,  Ann 
L.  Hayden;  d.  17  Oct.,  1853.     Issue: 

1st.     Joseph  W.,  b.  31  Mar.,  1849;  no  further  record. 

6.  Charlotte  Ann,  b.  7  July,  1822;  d.  2  May,  1823. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  Adino  N. 

Adino  Nye  Brackett  was  born  November  1,  1777,  in  Lee,  N.  H.; 
in  1789,  with  others  of  his  father's  family,  went  to  Lancaster,  in 
which  town  he  resided  until  his  death,  January  25,  1847.  Was  a 
farmer  and  land  surveyor;  was  selectman  of  the  town  for  fifteen 
years,  representative  in  the  state  legislature  for  ten  years,  and  clerk 
of  the  court  of  Coos  county  for  twenty-seven  years;  was  adjutant  in 
the  state  militia.  Married  November  1,  1808,  Mary  Wiggin  Weeks, 
daughter  of  John  Weeks  and  wife,  Deborah  Brackett  (see  fam.  1, 
thisdiv.).  Mr.  Brackett  commenced  a  narrative  of  the  life  of  his 
father,  Joseph  Brackett.  It  ends  abruptly  with  the  mention  of  the 
arrival  of  the  family  in  Lancaster,  in  1789.  It  is  a  standard  source 
of  authority  relative  to  those  matters  the  truth  of  whidi  he  affirmed, 
particularly  as  to  vital  statistics  of  the  families  of  his  father  and 
grandfather  and  as  to  matters  pertaining  to  the  lives  of  either  of 
them.  It  is  not  accountable  how  he  had  no  accurate  information 
relative  to  his  great-grandfather,  Joshua  Brackett,  whose  name  he 
does  not  mention,  and  so  far  as  appears,  knew  nothing  of.  He  was 
of  the  opinion,  though  he  does  not  affirm  it  as  a  fact,  that  his  great- 
grandfather was  John  Brackett,  the  son  of  Anthony  Brackett,   the 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  455 

immigrant.  From  his  grandfather,  Deacon  James  Brackett,  he 
secured  the  data  relative  to  his  family,  which  he  set  forth  in  his 
manuscript  as  it  is  contained  in  this  history.  He  mentions  that  he 
saw  his  grandfather,  and  he  gives  a  description  of  his  personal 
appearance.  With  such  opportunity  for  securing  the  most  reliable 
information  obtainable  relative  to  the  ancestors  of  Deacon.  James 
Brackett,  one  would  hesitate  in  writing  that  he  was  mistaken  as  to 
who  were  such  ancestors,  but  that  the  authorities  showing  he  was 
mistaken,  are  of  the  most  conclusive  character,  and  are  as  set  forth 
in  other  parts  of  this  history.  Mr.  Brackett  possessed  fair  literary 
taste  and  ability  and  his  powers  of  description  of  natural  scenery  are 
shown  in  a  marked  degree  in  his  little  work,  which  has  been  care- 
fully preserved.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Nye,  b.  20  May,  1810;  d.  10  May,  1813. 

2.  Joseph,  b.  29  July,  1814;   d.  1  Aug.,  1814. 

.'!.  James  Adino,  b.  5  Aug.,  1817;  d.  24  July,  1819. 

4.  John  Wingate,  b.  17  Nov.,  1819;  d.  7  Mar.,  1859. 

5.  Adino  N.,  b.  11  July,  1822.     See  family  18. 

6.  James  S.,  b.  29  Sept.,  1827.     See  family  19. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family  Xo.  2.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  March  31,  1782,  in  Greenland,  N.  H.,  at 
which  time  his  parent's  residence  was  in  Lee,  N.  H.;  was  reared  in 
Lancaster.  X.  II.  Graduated  from  Dartmouth  college,  class  of  1805, 
and  on  July  4th  of  that  year  delivered  oration  in  the  college  chapel; 
commenced  the  study  of  law.  and  upon  his  admission  to  the  bar 
removed,  in  1808,  to  Cherry  Valley,  N.  Y.,  to  practice  his  profession; 
about  this  period  lie  delivered  the  annual  address  before  the  principal 
society  of  Dartmouth.  Resided  in  Cherry  Valley  for  over  forty 
years,  and  acquired  an  extensive  acquaintance  throughout  the  state. 
Was  prominent  in  politics  and  out  spoken  in  his  convictions,  particu- 
larly in  his  opposition  to  war  with  Great  Britain;  when,  however, 
the  war  commenced,  to  his  credit  it  can  be  said  that  he  lent  his  aid 
to  its  most  vigorous  prosecution.  His  powers  as  an  orator  kept  his 
services  in  demand  as  a  public  speaker.  Several  times  he  was  a  can- 
didate for  important  public  office  but  was  defeated  with  his  (Whig) 
party.  By  appointment  he  never  held  any  office  other  than  surrogate 
of  Otsego  county,  which  came  to  him  without  solicitation  and  which 
he  held  for  many  years.  In  1849,  he  removed  to  Rock  Island,  111., 
where  several  of  his  sons  had  preceded  him;  died  in  Rock  Island, 
May  18,  1852.  Married  July  3,  1809,  Eliza  Maria  Bennett  Ely, 
born  May  27,  1791,  in  Philadelphia.  Pa.,  died  October  10,  1853, 
in  Rochester,  Ind.,  at  the  home  of  her  son,  Charles,  was  daughter 
of  John  Ely;  he  was  a  soldier  in  the  War  of  the  Revolution,  served 
in  Colonel  Samuel  H.  Parsons'  6th  Connecticut  regiment,  born  about 
1757,  died  in  1847,  was  son  of  James  Ely;  he  married  Dorcas  Andrews, 
died  in  1766,  was  son  of  William,  who  was  son  of  Richard  Ely. 
Issue: 

1.  Elizabeth  Maria,  b.  12  July,  1810;  d.  at  age  of  80  years,  in 
Morristown,  X.  J.;  mar.  26  Oct.,  1829,  Jeremiah  Cary,  lawyer,  of 
New  York  city,  member  of  the  29th  Congress. 


456  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2.  John  Ely,  b.  10  June,  1812,  in  Cherry  Valley,  N.  Y.;  in 
height  was  six  feet,  and  none  of  his  brothers  were  any  less  in  height; 
graduated  at  West  Point  military  academy  1  July,  1832;  breveted 
2nd  Lieut.,  2nd  U.  S.  arty.;  resigned  from  the  army  in  1833, 
and  settled  in  Rock  Island  where  he  engaged  in  the  practice  of  law. 
At  the  commencement  of  the  war  with  Mexico  he  was  appointed 
Captain  in  2nd  N.  Y.  vol.;  the  regiment  was  ordered  to  Cali- 
fornia, went  by  water  and  reached  San  Francisco  in  Mar.,  1847, 
where  it  took  part  in  the  conquest  of  the  state;  served  until  the 
regiment  was  mustered  out  in  Aug.,  1848;  was  member  of  the 
first  territorial  legislature  of  California,  from  Sonoma  co.,  and  was 
elected  by  the  legislature,  major-general  of  the  militia.  In  the 
northern  part  of  the  state  the  Indians  were  troublesome  and  there 
was  much  lawlessness  in  the  gold  fields;  several  outbreaks  were  sup- 
pressed by  the  state  troops,  under  the  command  of  General  Brackett. 
He  d.  unniar.,  25  Jan.,  1855. 

3.  Joseph  W.,  b.  19  Jan.,  1815.     See  family  20. 

4.  James  W.,  b.  8  Oct.,  18 16.     See  family  21. 

5.  Lyman  S.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1818.     See  family  22. 

6.  William,  b.  10  Mar.,  1821.     See  family  23. 
Charles,  b.  18  June,  1825.     See  family  24. 
Margaret,  b.  20  June,  1827;  d.  15  Apr.,  1828. 
Albert  G.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1829.     See  family  25. 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From  Family  No.  3.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Ebenezer,  Greenleaf  C. 

Greenleaf  Clark  Brackett,  was  born  August  9,  1785,  in  Epsom, 
N.  H.,  where  he  died  October  6,  1878;  was  a  farmer;  married  (1st) 
March  19,  1807,  Naomi  Locke,  born  September  5,  1786,  died  De- 
cember 13,  1839,  daughter  of  Jonathan  and  wife,  Alice  Parsons; 
(2nd)  Sally  Marden,  born  May  8,  1801,  died  June  8,  1886.     Issue: 

1.  James,  b.  15  June,  1808;   never  mar.;  d.  2  Jan.,  1845. 

2.  Jonathan,  b.  16  Jan.,  1810;  d.  8  Sept.,  1818. 

3.  William,  b.  9  July,  1814.     See  family  26. 

4.  John  L.,  b.  27  Oct.,  1817.     See  family  27. 

5.  Jonathan,  b.  13  Oct.,  1819;  d.  29  Jan.,  1826. 

C>.  Abigail,  b.  13  Nov.,  1821;  mar.  27  Feb.,  1850,  Benjamin 
Smith;   had  children,  Charles;   Alice;   Mellin;   Louisa. 

7.  Alice  L-,  b.  24  Aug.,  1825;  mar.  in  1863,  Jacob  Prescott,  of 
Epping.     Children,  Alice  and  Alfred  J. 

8.  Naomi,  b.  14  Sept.,  1828;  d.  24  Jan.,  1871;  was  highly 
esteemed  by  a  large  circle  of  friends;  early  in  her  married  life  she 
was  left  with  the  care  and  maintenance  of  three  small  children;  this 
duty  she  nobly  performed;  resided  in  North  Chelmsford,  New  Market, 
N.  H.,  and  Lowell,  Mass;  mar.  14  Sept.,  1845,  George  B.  Merriam, 
blacksmith.     Issue: 

1st.  Frank  B.,  b.  1  Sept.,  1848;  when  about  the  age  of  16  years 
he  joined  the  Brazilian  army,  was  sent  to  Paraguay  and  never  heard 
from.  The  war  was  between  Brazil- Argentine  Confederation  and 
Uruguay,  and  Paraguay;  it  lasted  four  years;  the  loss  of  life  was 
tremendous,  over  four-fifths  of  the  entire  population  of  Paraguay 
were  destroyed. 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  457 

2nd.     Ada  Evelyn,  b.  23  May,  1851;  d.  4  Nov.,  1887. 

3d.  Mary  Isadore,  b.  11  Sept.,  1853;  mar.  5  Oct.,  1879,  Her- 
man D.  Hazen,  second-hand  in  carding  department,  son  of  Freeman 
and  wife,  Sarah  Magoon,  of  North  Hero,  Vt.;  home,  in  Manchester, 
N.  H.     Issue: 

I.  Robert  D.,   b.    1  Sept.,    1880;  mar.   in  Sept.,    1900,   M.  A. 
Bailey;  home,  in  Manchester.     Issue: 

a.     Sarah  Louise,  b.  14  Apr.,  1902. 

II.  F.  Brackett,  b.  26  Apr.,  1883. 

III.  Edith  Naomi,  b.  1  Mar.,  1885;  d.  19  Aug.,  1885. 

IV.  Bernice  Merriam,  b.  9  Nov.,  1888. 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
James,  John. 

John  Brackett   was  born  December   13,    1775,    in   Dee,   N.   H.; 
inherited  his  father's  farm  in  Dee;   married  Dorothy  Watson,  born  in 
1776,  died  June  30,  1846;  he  died  April  19,  1838.     Issue: 
1.     Jacob,  who  d.  in  the  seventies  without  issue. 
'1.     Elizabeth,   b.  28  Feb.,    1800;   mar.  Samuel  Leavitt,  of  Effing- 
ham, N.  H.     Issue: 

1st.  James  M.,  b.  in  1820;  mar.  (1st)  Eeavitt;  (2nd)  E.  Moul- 
ton;  d.  in  1890. 

2nd.     Benjamin  F.,  b.  in  1822;   mar.  A.  Anderson;  d.  in  1896. 
3d.     John  Cook,  b.  in  1N24;  mar.  A.  H.  Tuttle. 
4th.     Mark,  who  mar.  E.  Ford,  of  Bradford,   Mass.;  d.  in  1890. 
5th.     Almon,  b.  in  1828;  mar.  Nellie  Jones,  of  Alton,  N.  H. 
6th.     Evelyn,  b.  19  Sept.,  1826;   mar.  Gordon. 
•'!.     John  C,  b.  26  Oct..  1802.     See  family  28. 

4.  Martha,  b.  1  Oct.,  1804;  mar.  13  Nov.,  1828,  Jacob  Tuttle;  d. 
17  Mar.,  1 88 1.     Issue: 

1st.  Addison  D.,  b.  16  Feb.,  1830;  mar.  29  Nov.,  1855,  Carrie 
Hoyt. 

2nd.  Almira  B.,  b.  9  Oct.,  1832;  mar.  15  Mar.,  1858,  Samuel 
Tetherty. 

3d.  Mary  W.,  b.  9  Sept.,  1834;  mar.  19  Mar.,  1854,  John  K. 
Granville.     Issue: 

I.     Myra  S.,  b.  2  Aug.,  1855. 
IE     Frank  E.,  b.  8  Jan.,  1857. 
III.     Cinda  K.,  b.  11  June,  1858. 

4th.  Hiram  O.,  b.  29  May,  1836;  mar.  (1st)  Rose  Chubb;  (2nd) 
Julia  Hayes. 

5th.  J.  Brackett,  b.  24  Aug.,  1839;  mar.  6  July,  1873,  Hattie 
C.  Hall. 

6th.  Catherine  H.,  b.  15  July,  1841;  mar.  in  1864,  Frank 
Whitten. 

7th.  Joseph  D.,  b.  25  Sept.,  1843;  d.  in  U.  S.  Army,  27  Nov., 
1864. 

8th.     Martha  A.,  b.  9  Dec,  1845;  d.  22  Sept.,  1856. 

5.  Mary  M.,  b.   29  Aug.,    1806;    mar.   17  Dec,   1835,   Manassah 
Nichols  of  Effingham;  d.  1  Apr.,  1871.     Issue: 

1st.     John  Brackett,  b.  18  Oct.,  1836;   d.  12  Feb.,  1838. 


158  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2nd.     John.  1,.  3  Aug.,  1838;  d.  5  Aug.,  1 

3d.     Mary   Elizabeth,    b.    9    Feb..    1840;  mar.    16    Nov.,    1864 
Addison  Rmer.      Issue:  lou4, 

'•     •I"hn  D--  b-  '4  Aug.,  1866;  d.  22  Aug.,  1885. 
II       Elvira  G.,  b.  2  June,  1870;  d.  17  Aug.,  1871. 
HI-     Mary    Ann.    b.   29    Aug.,    1871;    mar.    28   July     1888 
Charles  B.  Whitten;    (2nd)    12  July,    l896,   Myron  C.  Mason  '  home 
in  Effingham  Falls,  N.  H.     Has  one  child,  Louis.  ' 

[V.     George  W.,  b.  20  Dee.,  1873;  d.  20  Sept.,  1874 
Elvira  Jane,  b.  3  Mar.,  1843;  d.  19  June,  1885. 
-Hi.      Lydia  Ann,  b.  16  Aug.,  1846;   d.  24  May,  1856 
[ss6ue.  Lydla'  Wh0  mar-  Za<*ariah  Seeggel,  of  Ossipee  Center,  N.  H. 

1st.      Woodbury,  who  mar.  (1st)  Page;   (2nd)  Lear. 
2nd.     Augusta  A.,  who  mar.  Hanscome. 

7.  Almira.  who  d.  in  1S23. 

8.  James.     No  further  record. 

FAMILY   NO.    13 

Fr "";;",;,"' jaiiesDescent:  Amhonj-'  rh°-^  **»•.  *»*. . 

James  Brackett  was  born  October  *o    178-?    inTPP    m    tt 
^^^^^^^^-^^^^^ 
.^Benjamin,  never  mar.;  mariner;  d.  at  sea;  estate  administered 

2.  Joseph  Warren,  who  mar.  Ellen  Foster. 

3.  James  W.,  who  never  mar.;  d.  in  California 
->•     Sarah,  who  mar.  Abbott;  no  issue 

Clare„^S;rand^s.HUnt-     ^^  ^  A^  James; 

6.     Hester  Ann,  who  mar.  James  Harris;  no  issue 
William*17'    "''"'   mar-   J°Seph   Atki»*»i;  had  children,    Ada  and 

andWmLhmjWh°  mar'  Ja'"eS  Crawford'    had  chi^en,  Helen  F. 
9.  ^sgood^who  mar.  Mary  French.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth; 

2nd.     Emily. 

3d.      Carrie. 

HI,.      benjamin b.    ,8  Sept.,    ,839;    mar.    Sarah    Small     b     ,6 

&r«s&^iss:  NndHwifiaSs;za  Raynes'  °f  *^ 

ChambeVs,  Bos\onertforbem^  ?!Pt'\l8t7;    is   a  lawyer,    Hemenway 

in  Roxbury    for  seven  yefrS  SLfn  ^r  aSS°date  jud^e  of  court 
even  years,  chairman  of  Cemetery  department. 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  459 

FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joshua,  Thomas. 
Thomas  Brackett  was  born  July  12,  1791,  in  Greenland;  bought 
a  farm  of  seventy  acres,  near  his  father's,  beautifully  situated  on  the 
shore  of  the  Great  bay  in  Greenland;  was  a  successful  farmer;  was 
state  representative  from  the  town  in  1842,  1843  and  1844;  also  from 
time  to  time  held  different  town  offices;  died  October  21,  1868;  mar- 
ried August  28,  1828,  Sarah  W.  Veasy,  daughter  of  Daniel  and  wife, 
Mary  Dearborn,  of  Stratham,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.     John  Henry,  b.  27  Oct.,  1829;   d.  15  Sept.,  1830. 

1'.     Sarah  Annah,  b.  20  Nov.,  1831;   d.  12  Sept.,  1833. 

.;.  Mary  Frances,  b.  20  Dec,  1832;  d.  15  May,  1881;  mar.  1 
June,  1858,  Lewis  Jenkins  Chase,  of  Providence,  R.  I.,  son  of  Major 
John  Barnet  and  wife,  Lydia  Stillwell  Chase,  of  Providence. 

4.  Sarah  Annah,  b.  10  Feb.,  1834;  d.  7  July,  1884;  mar.  6  Aug., 
1862,  William  DeForrest  Bowers,  sea  captain,  son  of  Captain  Wil- 
liam R.  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Wheaton.     Issue: 

1st.     Richard  Alsop,  b.  3  Jan.,  1867;  d.  in  1871. 

2nd.     Elizabeth  Wheaton,  b.  21  Mar.,  1868;  d.  24  Dec,  1878. 

Md.     Richard  Tudor,  b.  3  Apr.,  1873;  d.  in  Sept.,  1883. 

Uli.  Bertha  Brackett,  b.  19  Sept.,  1876;  mar.  28  June,  1899, 
Richman  P.  Margeson,  of  Boston,  now  (1906)  of  Portsmouth,  house- 
furnisher. 

5.  Alice,  b.  31  May,  1836;  d.  21  Apr.,  1905;  mar.  3  Aug.,  1865, 
George  Frank  Walker,  farmer,  and  teacher  of  vocal  music,  b.  26 
July,  1835,  in  Barnstead,  N.  H.,  d.  24  Oct.,  1890,  son  of  Joseph  Al- 
cott  Walker,  of  Barnstead,  brick  maker,  b.  6  Jan.,  1802,  in  Ports- 
mouth, d.  18  Oct.,  1864,  and  wife,  Abigail  Murry,  b.  18  Oct.,  1797, 
in  Barnstead.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Geo.  F.  Walker  owned  and  resided  on 
the  fifty-acre  tract  in  New  Market,  on  the  road  to  Lee,  on  Pacassic 
river,  given  by  her  ancestor,  Joshua  Brackett,  to  his  son  Samuel. 
Issue: 

1st.  Martha  B.,  b.  7  Mar.,  1867;  teacher  of  vocal  and  instru- 
mental music 

2nd.  John  B.,  b.  14  Sept.,  1868;  civil  engineer  and  lumber- 
man; mar.  22  Dec,  1895,  Laura  J.  Ladd,  of  Epping.     Issue: 

I.  Martha  D.,  b.  7  Mar.,  1897. 

II.  Joseph  Alcott,  b.  17  Dec,  1899. 

III.  Barbara  Nell,  b.  22  May,  1901. 

IV.  John  Edward,  b.  1  Aug.,  1904. 

V.  Dexter  A.,  b.  twin  with  John  Edward. 

3d.     Mary  Rose,  b.  17  Sept.,  1869;  d.  6  Nov.,  1871. 

4th.  Lewis  Alcott,  b.  28  July,  1871,  lumberman  and  black- 
smith; mar.  14  Oct.,  1896,  Susie  Kent,  dau.  of  Eben,  of  Durham, 
N.  H.     Issue: 

I.  George  Frank,  b.  4  Dec,  1897. 

II.  Kent,  b.  23  Jan.,  1900. 

III.  Lewis  Clyde,  b.  6  Feb.,  1903. 

IV.  Stanley,  b.  1  Dec,  1905. 

5th.  James  Brackett  Creighton,  b.  17  Sept.,  1875;  mar.  14  Oct., 
1 901,  Lulu  B.,  dau.  of  Daniel  Plummer,  of  Epping;  is  in  employ  of 
his  brother  John. 


160  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

6.  John  Henry,  b.  26  Nov.,  1838.     See  family  29. 

7.  Thomas  James,  b.  17  Mar.,  1840;  d.  23  Dec.,  1841. 

S.     Martha  Pickering,  b.  15  Dec.,  1841;  d.  28  Dec,  1865. 

9.  James,  b.  17  Aug.,  1843;  d.  23  Aug.,  1844. 

10.  Frederick,  b.  21  Nov.,  1845;  d.  15  Feb.,  1847. 

11.  Grace  Clark,  b.  28  May,  1847;  d.  5  Jan.,  1907;  mar.  24  Mar., 
1886,  John  Hunnington  Scott,  farmer,  b.  9  Oct.,  1857,  in  Burlington, 
Yt.,  son  of  Dr.  William  and  wife,  Esther  Roberts,  of  Strafford,  N. 
H.;  Dr.  Scott's  father  was  a  Quaker,  came  from  England  and  settled 
in  Pennsylvania.  Resided  in  Durham  since  1886.  Mrs.  Scott  was 
taken  ill  with  pneumonia  on  27  Dec,  1906.  The  portion  of  this 
work  which  is  the  result  of  her  labor  has  been  mentioned  on  another 
page.  A  beautiful  tribute  was  paid  to  her  memory  by  a  friend,  a 
lifelong  acquaintance.  The  writer  never  met  her,  yet  how  easy  to 
recognize  his  mind  picture  of  her  in  the  "rare  spirit  whose  beauty  of 
life  always  was  apparent;  *  *  *  *  the  genial  smile  and  grateful 
word;  *  *  heart  and  hospitable  door  wide  open." — As  the  items 
of  my  debt  of  gratitude  to  her  are  checked  off  as  unpaid,  I  know  that 
her  pleasure  in  life  was  to  do  for  others;  thai,  too,  is  a  part  of  the 
picture.     Issue: 

1st.  Roger.  The  map  of  Greenland  and  Rye  was  made  from 
a  drawing  prepared  by  him. 

FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From  Family  No.  6.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Benjamin,  William  D. 

William  Davis  Brackett  was  baptized  May  11,  1806,  in  Warren, 
Me.;  removed  to  Millbridge,  Me.,  where  he  died  October  16,  1891; 
was  a  teamster;  married  Lucy  A.  Strout,  born  September  30,  1814, 
died  March  30,  1890,  daughter  of  Solomon  and  wife,  Joanna  Wallace, 
of  Steuben,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  William  D.,  b.  2  Sept.,  1844;  d.  2  Feb.,  1862. 

2.  Benjamin,  b.  8  June,  1849,  in  Millbridge,  Me.;  is  a  teamster; 
home,  in  Millbridge;  mar.  11  June,  1881,  Clara  W.  Fickett,  b.  22 
Dec,  1862,  dau.  of  Capt.  Amaziah  and  wife,  Celestina  Rumery,  of 
Millbridge  and  Lubec,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Annie  Isabel,  b.  27  Apr.,  1883. 

2nd.     Clarence  Elmer,   b.   22  June,    1884;   d.    15  Dec,  1899. 

3d.     Vernon  Kilby,  b.  27  June,  1885. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    16. 

From  Family  No.  7.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  John  W.,  Joseph  W. 

Joseph  Warren  Brackett  was  born  May  12,  1800,  in  Lancaster, 
N.  H.  Upon  the  death  of  his  father  in  1829,  removed  to  Huntsburg,0.; 
after  a  residence  of  several  years  in  Huntsburg  he  emigrated  to  Wis- 
consin; dwelt  first  in  Brookfield,  then  in  Bloomington,  Grant  county, 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  461 

in  that  state,  where  he  died  November  5,  1873;  was  a  farmer  and 
lawyer,  was  judge  of  county  court  of  Geauga  county,  0.,  and  member 
of  first  Wisconsin  state  legislature;  had  a  taste  for  historical  and  biog- 
raphical reading  and  was  a  good  conversationalist;  united  with  the 
Disciple  church  and  diligently  studied  the  writings  of  Alexander 
Campbell,  the  leader  of  the  sect.  Married  May  10,  1828,  Lydia  Miller, 
born  April  23,  1803,  died  December  21,  1878,  daughter  of  Francis  and 
wife,  Malah  Bagg,  of  Westfield,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  John  W.,  b.  23  Mar.,  1830.     See  family  30. 

2.  James  M.,  b.  15  July,  1831.     See  family  31. 
8.     Malah  E.,  b.  24  Oct.,  1833;   d.  in  May,  1837. 

4.  Joseph  W.,  b.  12  Mar.,  1836.     See  family  32. 

5.  Adino  Nye,  b.  in  Aug.,  1838;  d.  9  Feb.,  1840. 

ft.     Malah    P..  b.    16  Feb.,  1840;  mar.    14  Aug.,  1X62.  Philetus  H. 
Philbrook;   home,  in  Lincoln,  Neb.      Issue: 

1st.      Inez  C,  b.  14  May,   1866. 

2nd.     Warren  Brackett,  b.  18  Oct.,  1870. 

3d.      Harvey  James,  b.  6  Feb.,  1872. 

4th.      Annette  Elizabeth,  b.  7  Apr.,   1875. 

5th.      Francis  Samuel,  b.  30  Sept..  1876. 
7.      Eunice  Annette,  b.  2  Aug.,  1X43:   home,  in  Lincoln,  Neb. 


FAMILY    NO.    17. 

From   Family  No.  7.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshna,  James, 
Joseph,  John  \\\,  Adino  N. 

Adino  Nye  Brackett  was  born  February  12,  1815,  in  Lancaster, 
N.  H.;  when  about  fifteen  years  of  age  he  went  with  his  mother  to 
Hnntsbnrg,  O.,  and  from  there  to  Wisconsin;  married  October  18, 
1838,  Mary  Misner;   died  January  7,   [888.      Issue: 

1.  Mahlon  F.,  1).  21  July,  1839;  d.  2  Mar.,  1846. 

2.  George  Nelson,  b.  29  May,  1N41;   d.  24  Sept.. 

3.  Mary  Nye,  b.  19  Aug.,  1843:  mar.  14  Jan..  [872,  W.  V.  !  ord; 
d.  4  Feb.,  1897;   children  are  Grace:  Fred:  Tay;  all  of  Manchester.  la. 

4.  Persis  Sophia,  1).  19  Feb.,  1846;  mar.  Amo  :se  (st_-t  fain. 
7,  this  div. ) 

5.  Lydia  Eliza,  b.  29  June,  1848;   mar.  Amos  Mo 
(>.     Adino  Nye,  b.  29  Nov.,  1850.     See  family  3; 

7.  Joseph  Warren,  b.  21  Feb.,  1853;  d.  13  Jan.,  1864. 

8.  Martha  Ann.,  b.  20  Aug.,  1855;  not  mar.;  resides  in  Lancas- 
ter, Wis. 

9.  John  Weeks,  b.  29  Nov.,  1859;  d.  10  Dec,  1859. 

10.  Fred  Amos,  b.  23  Sept.,  1862;  mar.  16  Apr.,  1889,  at  Platte- 
ville,  Wis.,  Mary  A.  Richardson,  dau.  of  Robert  and  wife,  Theresa 
Bassett.     Issue: 

1st.     Bessie  Nye,  b.  3  May,  1890. 
2nd.     Robert  Warren,  b.  7  May,  1892. 
3d.     George  Arthur,  b.  10  Feb.,  1894. 
4th.     Grace  Everett,  b.  26  Oct.,  1896. 


462  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From  Family  No.  9.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  Adino  N.,  Adino  N. 

Adino  Nye  Braekett  was  born  July  n,  1822,  in  Lancaster,  N.  H.; 
in  1837,  entered  Phillips'  Exeter  academy;  graduated  from  Dartmouth 
college  in  1844;  went  to  Hanover  county,  Va.,  in  1845,  and  engaged 
in  teaching;  returned  to  Lancaster  in  1849,  and  commenced  the  study 
of  medicine;  took  a  course  of  lectures  at  the  Vermont  Medical  college 
and  in  1851,  received  the  degree  of  M.  D.  from  Dartmouth;  was  in 
Florida  a  short  time,  returned  to  Virginia  in  1863,  and  engaged  in 
practice.  During  the  civil  war  he  was  frequently  with  the  Confed- 
erate army,  though  he  never  became  a  member  of  it,  doctoring  the 
sick  and  wounded.  With  the  residents  of  that  state  he  suffered  worse 
than  the  horrors  of  war  under  the  nefarious  carpet-bag  rule  which  was 
inflicted  upon  them  for  some  years  following  the  close  of  the  war;  he 
lived  to  see  his  state  redeem  itself  from  that  thraldom.  Of  him  his 
daughter,  Mrs.  Wingfield,  wrote — 

"My  father  was  of  small  stature,  well  proportioned  and  very  erect. 
He  possessed  an  unusually  bright,  hopeful  spirit,  with  an  unfailing 
kindness  of  heart.  He  was  a  great  lover  of  good  literature,  and 
greatly  devoted  to  his  profession;  but,  a  few  years  before  his  death 
when  declining  health  compelled  him  to  give  up  active  practice,  he 
would  say  T  am  never  lonely  with  my  books  and  memories.'  He 
died  at  the  age  of  seventy-nine  years  having  'all  that  could  accom- 
pany old  age,  honor,  love,  obedience,  troops  of  friends.'  My  father 
did  not  join  the  Confederate  army  for  the  fact  that  having  a  very  large 
practice  and  being  exempt  by  law  as  a  physician,  his  friends  per- 
suaded him  not  to  join." 

Died  May  13,  1901,  at  his  home  "Clay  Bank"  in  Hanover  count}', 
Va.  Married  March  6,  1855,  Ducy  A.  Bumpass,  born  June  26,  1827, 
died  March  28,  1892,  daughter  of  Thomas  Bumpass,  a  wealthy  planter, 
owning  "Grass  Dale" — a  large  estate,  and  many  slaves.  Her  mother 
was  Fannie  E.  Thompson,  daughter  of  Colonel  Nathaniel  B.  Thomp- 
son. Mrs.  Braekett  was  educated  at  what  was  considered  at  the  time 
a  very  fine  boarding  school,  at  Scotch  town  in  Hanover  county. 
Issue: 

1.  Mary  Fanny,  b.  8  July,  1857;  mar.  27  June,  1894,  Whitfield 
Pollard,  01  Goodalls,  Hanover  co.,  Va.     Issue: 

1st.     L.  Pearl,  b.  4  Oct.,  1895,  at  Goodalls. 
2nd.     James  Adino,  b.  3  May,  1898,  at  Goodalls. 

2.  Persis  Amelia,  b.  16  Jan.,  1861;  mar.  27  Nov.,  1889,  Henry  J. 
Wingfield,  of  Chilton,  Hanover  co.,  Va.,  b.  25  June,  1861.  His 
father  William  Wingfield,  was  in  the  Confederate  army,  served  as 
lieutenant  in  the  15th  Va.  vol.  inf.;  was  commissioned  24  Apr.,  1861: 
resigned  on  account  of  poor  health;  Mrs.  Brackett's  brother,  Thomas 
G.  Bumpass,  took  his  place  in  the  ranks;  resides  at  "Clay  Bank." 
Issue: 

1st.     Henry  Nye,  b.  15  May,  1892,  at  "Clay  Bank." 

3.  Ducy  Thompson,  b.  10  Dec,  1862:  mar.  22  Jan.,  1890,  William 
T.  Priddy,  of  Richmond,  Va.     Issue: 

1st.      William  Bracket  .  b.  30  Jan.,  1891,  at  "Clay  Bank." 
2nd.     James  Thomas,  0.  4  Jan.,  1893,  at  "Clay  Bank." 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  463 

3d.     Lucy  Ethel,  b.  26  Feb.,  1895,  at  "Clay  Bank." 
4th.      Mary  Nye,   b.    2   Dee.,   1897,    at   Strawberry  Plain.     All  b. 
in  Hanover  eo. 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From  Family  Xo.  9.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  Adino  N.,  James  S. 

James  Spaulding  Brackett  was  born  September  29,  1827,  in  Lan- 
caster, N.  H.,  where  he  has  lived  nearly  all  his  life;  a  farmer  and  land 
surveyor;  served  as  first  lieutenant  in  company  A,  17th  New  Hamp- 
shire volunteer  infantry,  from  November  20,  1862,  to  April  19,  1863; 
was  superintendent  of  schools,  and  at  one  time  was  a  clerk  in  the 
Department  of  the  Navy,  stationed  in  Boston.  He  is  very  well 
informed  on  the  family  history,  and,  as  his  father  did,  entertains  the 
view  that  the  family  was  of  Welsh  origin.  He  married  December  26, 
1850,  Mary  Elizabeth  Emerson,  born  March  8,  1828,  died  November 
15,  1882,  daughter  of  David  and  wife,  Tirzah  Sterling,  of  Lancaster. 
Issue: 

1.  Mary  Nye,  b.  22  Jan.,  1853;  home  in  Lancaster. 

2.  Lucy  Jane,   b.    1   Jan.,    1856;  mar.   26   Feb.,    1890,   James   H. 
Knapp;  home,  in  Unionville,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1st.     Gertrude  Emerson,  b.  18  Mar.,  1891. 
2nd.     Elizabeth  Goddard,  b.  30  Aug.,  1894. 
3d.      Helen  Brackett,  b.  31  Aug.,  1896. 

3.  Sarah   Helen,  b.  4  Nov.,    1859;  mar.    14  June,    1881,  John  H. 
White;   home,  in  Roxburv,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Ellen  Brackett," b.  12  May,  1884. 
2nd.     Nye  A.,  b.  16  Sept.,  1888. 

4.  Martha  Weeks,  b.  12  Oct.,  1864,  in  Lancaster. 

5.  James  Adino,  b.    10  Mar.,    1869;  mar.    1  June,    1900,   Ina  May 
Barker:  home,  in  Roxburv,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     James  Frederick,  b.  14  Mar.,  1905. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From  Family  No.   10.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James,  Joseph  W. 

Joseph  Warren  Brackett  was  born  January  19,  1815,  in  Cherry 
Valley,  Otsego  county,  N.  Y.;  was  midshipman  in  the  United  States 
navy  in  1831,  served  on  the  sloop  of  war  "Falmouth,"  under  Cap- 
tain James  Ward,  in  the  suppression  of  piracy  in  the  West  Indies: 
served  on  the  "Brandywine",  promoted  to  master's  mate  and  master; 
resigned  from  the  navy  in  1836,  returned  to  Cherry  Valley  and  fitted 
himself  for  the  practice  of  law.  In  1849,  he  removed  to  Rock  Island, 
111.  In  the  early  history  of  California  he  took  an  important  part,  par- 
ticipating in  many  of  the  historical  events  leading  up  to  its  admission 
into  the  Union.  During  the  civil  war  he  served  as  first  lieutenant  in 
the  9th  Illinois  volunteer  cavalry  of  which  his  brothers  Albert  G. 
Brackett  was  colonel  and  James  W.  Brackett  was  surgeon;  resigned 
April  18,  1863;  member  of  John  Buford  post,  G.  A.  R.,  of  Rock 
Island,  commander  in  1886;  member  of  Illinois  society  of  Sons  of 
American  revolution. 


4C4  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Cheerful  disposition,  agreeable  temperament,  kind  and  sympa- 
thetic heart,  were  lovable  traits  of  his  which  endeared  him  to  his 
many  friends.  He  died  at  Rock  Island,  January  3,  1894;  death  was 
due  to  apoplexy,  which  came  upon  him  but  a  few  days  prior;  married 
June  5,  1843,  Eliza  M.  Parmelee,  of  Springfield,  X.  Y.,  died  August 
20,  1889,  at  Rock  Island.     Issue: 

1.  Man-  Elizabeth,  b.  31  May,  1851,  in  Rock  Island;  mar.  18 
Oct.,  1875,  Charles  William  Durham,  son  of  Charles  and  wife,  Dorcas 
C.  Johnson,  of  Boston;  Col.  C.  \V.  Durham  is  a  civil  engineer  in  the 
U.  S.  engineer's  office  in  Rock  Island;  has  had  charge  of  the  upper 
Mississippi  snag  boat  since  1875.     Issue: 

1st.  Charles  Brackett,  b.  29  Nov.,  1878;  d.  22  May,  1898,  at 
the  end  of  his  sophomore  year  at  Harvard. 

2nd.  Mary  Ely,  b.  23  Jan.,  1881;  mar.  12  Nov.,  1904.  Wade 
Garfield;   home^  at  Glen  Ellyn,  111. 

3d.  Ada  Schwatka,  b.  24  Nov.,  1882;  mar.  17  Aug.,  1902, 
James  Alexander  Macfie  who  d.  11  Oct.,  1905.     Issue: 

I.     James  Alexander,  b.  10  May,  1903;  d.  13  May,  1903. 

4th.     John  Barnett,  b.  25  Nov.,  1889. 

2.  Ada  Josephine,  b.  1  Aug.,  1854;  mar.  6  Sept.,  1882,  Lieut. 
Frederick  Schwatka,  U.  S.  A.,  the  explorer;  he  graduated  at 
West  Point  in  1871;  joined  third  cavalry  then  in  Arizona;  while  in 
Arizona  fitted  himself  for  the  practice  of  law  and  was  admitted  to 
practice  5  May,  1875;  in  1876,  graduated  from  Albany  Medical  col- 
lege; on  the  outbreak  of  the  Sioux  war  he  was  recalled  to  his  regi- 
ment; after  the  campaign  obtained  leave  of  absence  and  permission  to 
live  among  the  Sioux  Indians;  acquired  their  language,  was  adopted 
as  a  member  of  the  tribe  by  Chief  Spotted  Tail.  He  was  detailed  to 
lead  the  Franklin  search  expedition  on  which  he  sailed  in  June,  1878; 
led  exploring  expeditions  into  Mexico  and  Alaska;  is  the  author  of 
many  scientific  papers  and  articles  also  of  In  the  land  of  the  Cliff 
Dwellers:  Along  Alaska's  Great  River:  Children  of  the  Cold,  etc. 
Issue: 

1st.     Frederika.  b.  16  Apr.,  1886. 

3.  Cora  Louise,  b.  22  July,  1858,  in  Rock  Island;  mar.  25  Dec, 
1875,  Frank  Seth  Eastman,  b.  in  1838,  d.  in  Mar.,  1883,  son  of  Gen. 
Seth  Eastman  and  wife,  Mary  Henderson,  of  Washington,  D.  C. 
Frank  S.  Eastman  was  a  civil  engineer;  served  in  navy  during  the 
civil  war;  at  close  of  war  entered  regular  army  and  stationed  at  differ- 
ent posts.     Mrs.  Eastman  resides  in  Rock  Island.     Issue: 

1st.  Frank  Seth,  b.  17  Sept.,  1876;  d.  29  Mar.,  1877. 
2nd.     Harry,  b.  25  Jan.,  1878;  resides  in  Rock  Island. 

3d.  Thomas  Henderson,  b.  23  Jan.,  1881;  d.  in  Sept.,  1883. 

4th.  Eliza  Maria,  b.  10  Sept.*,  1882. 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua.  James, 
Joseph,  James,  James  W. 

James  Wolfe  Brackett,  physician  and  surgeon,  was  born  October 
8,  1816,  in  Cherry  Valley,  Otsego  county,  N.  Y.;  graduated  at 
the  age  of  nineteen  from  Medical  college  at  Castleton,  Vt.,  and  at  the 
age  of  twenty-one  began  his  practice  in  Logansport.   Ind.;  first  asso- 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  465 

ciated  with  Dr.  Fitch  and  later  with  Dr.  Buchanan;  about  time  of  his 
marriage  he  removed  to  Rock  Island.  Three  years  later  found  him 
in  the  gold  fields  of  California;  he  made  two  journeys  overland  to  that 
state;  returned  to  Rock  Island.  Served  in  the  civil  war;  was  appointed 
surgeon  with  the  rank  of  major  in  the  Ninth  regiment  of  Illinois  vol- 
unteer cavalry;  resigned  June  3,  1863;  became  contract  surgeon  at 
the  United  States  military  prison  at  Rock  Island  where  were  confined 
12,000  Confederate  soldiers.  Removed  in  1868,  to  Rochester,  Ind., 
where  he  practiced  medicine;  died  March  21,  1886,  on  his  farm  in 
Fulton  county,  Indiana;  buried  in  the  Brackett  lot  in  Chippiannock 
cemetery,  Rock  Island,  where  rest  the  remains  of  his  parents,  wife  and 
children. 

Dr.  Brackett' s  geniality  and  benevolence  were  proverbial  in  the 
communities  where  he  practiced;  his  charity  for  the  poor  was  shown 
by  the  care  he  gratuitously  bestowed  upon  their  sick;  his  many 
endearing  traits  of  character  and  excellent  qualities  of  mind  made  him 
popular  with  his  numerous  acquaintances,  and  beloved  by  his  friends. 
Married  March  26,  1X46,  at  Dogansport,  Ind.,  Sarah  A.  W.  Brown, 
born  November  27,  1827,  died  May  17,  1868,  daughter  of  Lazarus  and 
wife,  Nancy  McKeon,  of  Greeucastle,  Pa.  Married  (2nd)  March  22, 
[870,  in  Rochester,  Ind.,  Mrs.  Margaret  Zobst  Webber,  widow  of 
Jacob  Webber,  is  deceased.     Issue: 

1.  James  Brown,  b.  7  Oct.,  1847,  in  Rock  Island;  d.  2  Sept.,  1852. 

2.  Mary  Ella,  b.  11  Oct.,  1851,  in  Rock  Island;  d.  7  Sept.,  1852. 
:;.      Lillic  Eliza   Maria,  b.  4  Sept.,    1853,  in  Rock  Island;  mar.  30 

June,  [887,  Daniel  McDonald,  retired  editor,  closely  associated  with 
political  affairs  of  Indiana  for  many  years,  b.  6  May,  1833,  son  of 
Thomas  McDonald  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Dickson,  of  Plymouth,  Mar- 
shall  co.,  Indiana;   home,  in  Plymouth.     No  issue. 

4.  Bailey  D.,  b.  26  Aug.,  1855.     See  family  34. 

5.  Charles  Ely,  b.  30  July.  1853,  in  Rock  Island;  d.  7  Aug.,  1890, 
in  Claypool,  Ind. 

6.  Edwin,  b.  16  Apr.,  1864;  d.  2  Oct.,  1864. 

FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James,  Lyman. 

Lyman  Stebbens  Brackett  was  born  October  3,  18 18,  in  Cherry 
Valley,  N.  Y.;  graduated  at  Albany  (N.  Y.)  Medical  college  in 
1839,  and  immediately  went  to  Rochester,  Ind.,  and  began  the  prac- 
tice of  medicine.  He  was  greatly  attached  to  his  profession,  and 
devoted  all  his  energies  to  his  improvement.  His  letters  of  the 
period  tell  how  much  his  time  was  occupied  with  his  science;  had 
none  to  spare  for  hunting  and  fishing  with  his  brothers,  though  wood 
and  stream  abounded  in  game.  Also  he  mentioned  his  intention  to 
marry  that  he  might  the  better  become  contented  with  his  lot  and 
work  with  greater  energy.  But  brief  was  the  time  allotted  him  to 
achieve  his  ambition,  for  on  April  7,  1847,  he  died. 

Married  May  1,  1845,  Eliza  Ann  Rannells,  born  December  26, 
1825,  died  December  30,  1883,  daughter  of  William  (born  October  9, 
1797,  in  Hampshire  county,  Va.,  died  July  31,  1850,  in  Rochester) 
and  wife  (married  November  28,    1818),  Susan  Rannells  (born  Sep- 


466  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

tember  3,  1780,  died  April  12,  1861).,  his  distant  relative.  Mrs. 
Brackett  married  (2nd)  John  H.  Stailey;  they  removed  to  Washing- 
ton, D.  C.     Issue: 

1.  John  Ely  Brackett,  b.  31  Dec.,  1846;  a  physician  and  surgeon 
of  Washington,  D.  C;  a  graduate  of  Columbian  Medical  college  in 
1870,  and  of  University  of  Bavaria  in  1873.  Mar.  21  Nov.,  1878, 
Jeanie  Deans  Foster,  b.  12  Dec,  1846,  dau.  of  Abel  Lawrence  Foster 
(b.  17  Sept.,  1802,  in  Littleton,  Mass.,  d.  21  May,  1877,  lawyer,  rep. 
in  Cong,  in  1842,  from  N.  Y.)  and  wife,  Abigail  Maria  Hopkins. 
Issue: 

1st.  Foster  Ely,  b.  8  Nov.,  1881;  d.  while  in  attendance  as  a 
student  at  Stanford  university,  Cal.,  from  typhoid  fever,  Sunday 
morning,  10  May,  1903. 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James,  William. 

William  Brackett  was  born  March  10,  1821,  in  Cherry  Valley; 
attended  Harvard  Law  school;  commenced  the  practice  of  law  in 
Avon,  N.  Y.,  and  continued  the  practice  while  he  lived  in  Rock 
Island,  to  which  city  he  removed  in  1846.  In  1850,  he  went  to 
Chicago  to  live,  where  he  pursued  his  profession  for  many  years. 
Married  October  21,  1849,  Elizabeth  M.  Partridge,  born  September 
20,  1819,  daughter  of  John  H.  and  wife,  Susan  Turner,  of  Athol, 
Mass.  Died  in  Chicago,  June  14,  1888.  Issue: 
1.     William  S.,  b.  27  Sept.,  1850.     See  family  35. 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James,  Charles. 

Charles  Brackett  was  born  June  18,  1825,  in  Cherry  Valley,  N. 
Y.;  graduated  at  Castleton  Medical  college  in  1845,  and  soon  after 
removed  to  Illinois.  Served  as  assistant  surgeon  with  rank  of  major, 
in  9th  Illinois  volunteer  cavalry  during  the  first  year  of  the  civil  war. 
and  died  February  20,  1863,  at  the  army  hospital  in  Helena,  Ark., 
from  overwork  and  sickness.  Was  a  learned  physician,  and  beloved 
for  his  gentle  and  humane  nature.  Married  in  1851,  Margaret  Wil- 
son, born  in  September,  1833,  living  in  Rochester,  daughter  of  Wil- 
liam (born,  1793,  died,  1845)  and  wife,  Anna  Deasy  (born,  1792, 
died,  1869);  they  came  in  1818,  to  America  from  Scotland.  Issue, 
all  born  in  Rochester,  Ind: 

1.  Louise  Ely,  b.  28  Jan.,  1852;  mar.  24  Dec,  1874,  George 
Wilson  Holman,  lawyer,  b.  30  Sept.,  1850,  son  of  Charles  Walter 
and  wife,  Dehlia  Brown,  of  Kosciusko  Co.,  Ind.;  home,  in  Roch- 
ester, Ind.     Issue: 

1st.  Lucile,  b.  23  Feb.,  1877;  mar.  4  June,  1903,  Ralph  Sher- 
man Leonard;  home,  in  Cleveland,  O.     Issue: 

I.     George  Holman,  b.  16  Apr.,  1904,  in  Cleveland. 

2nd.     Hugh  Brackett,  b.  2  July,  1879;  resides  in  Pueblo,  Col. 

3d.     Grace  Wilson,  b.  18  Sept.,  1881. 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  467 

4th.  Georgianna  Ely,  b.  23  Jan.,  1884;  d.  4  Nov.,  1903.  She 
was  attending  the  Forest  Park  university  in  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  when 
stricken  with  typhoid  fever,  which  proved  fatal.  A  bright,  cheerful 
young  lady,  a  gifted  and  accomplished  pianist,  brilliant  in  her 
studies,  a  favorite  with  her  classmates,  and  the  beloved  of  the  family. 
The  choicest  flower  is  the  earliest  garnered  one. 

2.  Lyman  M.,  b.  9  Sept.,  1854.     See  family  36. 

3.  Rosanna,  b.  7  May,  1858;  mar.  20  June,  1878,  William  J. 
Williams,  superintendent  of  schools,  b.  4  June,  1846,  son  of  David 
and  wife,  Esther  Jones,  of  Granville,  Licking  co.,  O.;  d.  16 
Nov.,  1893.     Issue: 

1st.  Fred  Cowgill,  b.  15  Mar.,  1879;  mar.  ro  June,  1903,  Adel- 
loyd  Whiting,  b.  2  Mar.,  1879,  dau.  of  Anson  V.  and  wife,  Emily 
Cole,  of  Fairbury,  Neb.  Mr.  Williams  is  a  graduate  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Nebraska,  class  of  1900;  has  taught  schools  in  Columbus, 
Syracuse  and  Seward,  Neb.,  and  at  present  writing  (1906)  is  super- 
intendent of  schools  in  Seward.     Issue: 

I.     Rosanna  Brackett,  b.  6  Jan.,  1905. 

2nd.     Marjone  W.,  b.  7  Sept.,  1883. 

3d.     Edith  Brackett,  b.  5  June.  1888. 
5.     Charles  W.,  b.  16  Sept.,  1862.     See  family  37. 

FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James,  Albert  G. 

Albert  Gallatin  Brackett,  soldier,  was  born  February  14,  1829, 
in  Cherry  Valley,  Otsego  county,  N.  Y.;  attended  school  at  the  town 
academy.  In  1846,  at  the  commencement  of  the  War  with  Mexico, 
he  endeavored  to  secure  a  commission  in  Colonel  Stevenson's  New 
York  regiment,  but  was  disappointed  in  his  expectations.  The  regi- 
ment was  ordered  for  service  in  California,  and  was  forwarded  via 
Cape  Horn.  His  oldest  brother,  John  E.  Brackett,  a  graduate  of 
West  Point,  was  a  captain  in  the  regiment;  on  this  account,  for  one 
reason,  he  was  anxious  to  join  it.  Had  his  ambition  been  gratified 
in  this  instance,  it  is  highly  probable  that  his  profession  and  course 
of  life  would  have  been  entirely  different  from  what  they  were. 

In  the  summer  of  1846,  he  went  to  Rochester,  Ind.,  where 
resided  his  brother  Dr.  Lyman  Brackett.  While  there  he  renewed 
his  efforts  for  a  commission,  and  met  with  success.  In  May,  1847, 
he  received  a  second  lieutenant's  commission  in  the  4th  Indiana  vol- 
unteer infantry,  and  during  the  same  month  was  promoted  to  first 
lieutenant.  This  regiment  was  immediately  sent  to  the  front  and 
became  a  part  of  Lane's  brigade.  The  mention  that  he  belonged  to 
an  organization  forming  a  part  of  this  famous  brigade  sufficiently 
designates  the  honorable  part  he  took  in  the  war.  He  was  mustered 
out  July  16,  1848. 

While  in  Indiana,  prior  to  his  entering  the  army,  he  studied 
medicine  in  the  office  of  his  brother  Dr.  Lyman  Brackett,  until  the 
latter's  death,  in  April,  1847.  Upon  his  return  from  the  war  he  pur- 
sued his  studies  with  his  brother  Dr.  Charles  E.  Brackett  of 
Rochester.  During  1849,  he  took  a  course  of  lectures  at  the  Medi- 
cal college  in  Geneva,  N.  Y.,  and  at  the  Medical  college  in  Castle- 


468  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ton,  Vt.,   from  which  latter  institution  he  received   his  diploma,  in 
November,  1849. 

His  father  had  removed  in  1849,  to  Rock  Island,  111.,  where 
had  preceded  him  his  sons  William,  Joseph  W.,  and  James  W. 
The  two  latter  were  practicing  physicians.  To  Rock  Island  came 
their  younger  brother  Albert  G.,  who,  in  1850,  hung  out  his  shingle. 
Shortly  he  determined  to  seek  his  fortune  in  the  southern  states.  He 
journeyed  down  the  Mississippi  to  the  gulf.  No  place  he  found 
which  offered  inducements  to  make  him  a  resident.  Nothing  he 
saw  surpassed  the  opportunities  presented  by  the  new  and  growing 
cities  of  the  upper  Mississippi.  So  in  1851,  he  is  found  located  in 
Keokuk,  la.  After  a  stay  of  a  few  months  he  returned  to  Rock 
Island  and  purchased  an  interest  in  the  "Advertiser;"  with  this 
paper  he  was  connected  until  October,  1852.  In  the  spring  of 
the  following  year,  he  was  elected  city  clerk.  In  June,  1853,  he 
removed  to  Rochester,  Ind.,  and  practiced  medicine,  forming  a  part- 
nership with  his  brother  Charles.  In  August,  1854,  he  left  Roches- 
ter for  Logansport,  Ind.,  where  he  became  associated  in  the  practice 
of  medicine  as  partner  with  Dr.  G.  N.  Fitch,  afterwards  United 
States  senator. 

If  our  Dr.  Brackett  had  an  ambition  in  1854,  to  enter  the  army, 
there  is  nothing  in  his  journal  to  disclose  that  he  did.  In  it  is 
recorded  a  visit  to  Washington  in  January,  1855,  but  nothing  as  to 
the  purpose.  In  that  year  Congress  authorized  an  increase  of  the 
regular  army  by  four  regiments.  He  had  the  indorsement  of  the 
entire  Indiana  delegation  for  appointment  as  captain  in  a  cavalry 
regiment;  of  the  delegation  were  William  H.  English  and  Thomas 
H.  Hendricks.  A  few  short  entries  in  his  journal  quickly  tell  the 
story.  "I  was  appointed  captain  of  cavalry  March  3,  1855,  by  his 
excellency  Franklin  Pierce  *  *  .  The  official  news  reached  me 
on  the  29th  of  March  in  a  letter  from  Hon.  Jefferson  Davis,  Secretary 
of  War  *  ■''  *  Sunday,  April  8,  1855,  received  orders  from  Colonel 
Samuel  Cooper,  adjutant  general  of  the  army,  to  report  by  letter  to 
Col.  Albert  S.  Johnston  at  Louisville,  Kentucky.  Monday,  April  23, 
1855,  opened  a  recruiting  office  in  Market  street,  *  *  Logansport, 
Indiana.  Saturday,  May  5,  1855,  reached  Jefferson  Barracks,  Mo., 
with  twenty-one  U.S.  recruits." 

The  regiment,  when  raised,  was  sent  to  Texas,  where  it  was  in 
active  service  suppressing  Indian  outbreaks  until  i860.  Upon  the 
commencement  of  the  civil  war,  his  company,  under  his  command, 
was  sent  to  New  York  via  Key  West,  was  refitted  and  forwarded  to 
Washington.  He  took  part  in  the  action  at  Blackburn's  ford  and 
in  the  Battle  of  Bull  Run;  organized  the  9th  Illinois  volunteer 
cavalry,  familiarly  known  as  "Brackett's  regiment,"  and  was  com- 
missioned its  colonel.  It  was  raised  in  the  fall  of  1861,  and  mustered 
into  the  sen-ice  for  a  term  of  three  years;  it  participated  in  the  cam- 
paigns in  Arkansas  in  the  army  of  General  Curtis;  later  the  regiment 
was  stationed  at  Memphis,  and  participated  in  the  battle  of  Guntown. 

While  colonel  of  the  9th  Illinois  volunteer  cavalry  (mustered  out 
October  26,  1864),  he  was  placed  in  command  of  the  2nd  brigade  of 
the  cavalry  division  of  the  army  of  Tennessee,  and  in  January  and 
February,  1864,  was  engaged  in  defending  the  Memphis  and  Charles- 
ton railroad;  in  July,    1864,   was  appointed  special  inspector  of  cav- 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  469 

airy,  army  of  the  Cumberland;  was  at  siege  of  Atlanta;  was  with  the 
army  under  General  Thomas  and  participated  in  the  battle  of  Nash- 
ville. From  the  close  of  the  civil  war  until  he  retired,  February  18, 
1 89 1,  Colonel  Brackett  was  in  active  service  with  the  army  on  the 
frontiers,  a  participant  in  quite  all  the  movements  of  the  army  for  the 
suppression  of  Indian  outbreaks  of  the  period,  in  Nevada,  Montana, 
Wyoming,  Dakota  and  Arizona.  In  this  connection  it  is  proper  to 
mention  that  he  was  the  first  officer  to  cross  the  Mexican  border  with 
troops  in  pursuit  of  Indians. 

During  the  civil  war  he  was  severely  wounded  in  the  action  at 
Steward's  plantation  in  Arkansas,  and  received  the  brevets  of  major, 
lieutenant-colonel,  and  colonel,  for  gallant  and  meritorious  service. 
Was  promoted,  July  17,  1862,  major  of  the  1st  cavalry,  U.  S.  A.;  in 
March,  1869,  lieutenant-colonel  of  the  2nd  cavalry,  and  in  1879  was 
promoted  colonel  of  the  3d  cavalry. 

About  1884,  there  was  an  expected  vacancy  to  occur  in  the 
ranks  of  brigadier-general.  All  things  considered,  length  of  service, 
personal  qualifications  and  seniority,  Colonel  Brackett  was  entitled  to 
the  promotion;  but  it  was  not  his  lot  to  receive  it.  He  had  reasons 
to  be  proud  of  the  unsolicited  efforts  on  the  part  of  his  civilian 
friends  to  secure  him  his  due;  copies  of  their  testimonials  in  his  praise 
are  neatly  arranged  in  his  scrap-book,  each  printed  slip  having  its 
marginal  note  as  to  wherefrom  it  was  clipped,  and  date  of  issue; 
nearly  without  exception  they  are  from  papers  whose  editors  or  pub- 
lishers were  acquainted  with  Colonel  Brackett  and  had  knowledge  of 
his  capacity  as  a  soldier,  his  fitness  for  the  ranks,  and  his  sterling 
qualities  as  a  man.  Whatever  his  ambition  was  in  the  matter,  or 
how  great  his  disappointment  was  as  to  the  outcome,  no  act  or  word 
on  his  part  attests  them. 

A  very  busy  life  he  led.  Duties  as  a  soldier  ever  were  first; 
then  his  avocations,  of  which  he  had  a  few.  These  he  pursued  as 
opportunities  best  suited.  In  his  younger  days,  he  had  commenced 
keeping  a  journal,  and  at  intervals  he  recorded  events  of  moment  in 
his  life,  about  the  time  of  their  respective  occurrence.  However, 
when  nearly  every  day  saw  him  a  participant  in  matters  of  historic 
note  to  the  country,  the  journal  was  discontinued,  and  in  lieu  of  its 
records  we  have  the  benefit  of  his  recollections  set  forth  most  vividly 
in  numerous  articles  for  the  press. 

He  was  gifted  with  a  talent  for  sketching;  the  subjects  of  his 
pencil  were  numerous;  they  were  the  buildings  and  barracks  at  posts 
where  he  was  stationed;  the  varied  natural  scenery  presented  by  our 
western  country,  and  pretty  much  else  he  met  with.  All  these  are 
very  tastily  depicted  —  the  colors  the  best  at  hand  and  usually  quite 
suitable.  The  art  he  practiced  while  at  school  and  his  journal  con- 
tains many  specimens  of  his  skill. 

His  word  sketchings,  the  products  of  his  pen,  however,  are  of 
wide  scope  and  possess  merit  peculiarly  their  own.  Colonel  Brackett 
was  an  acute  and  accurate  observer  of  a  vast  field  of  operations  on 
which  he  was  no  inconspicuous  actor;  in  addition  he  was  blessed 
with  a  tenacious  memory.  His  forte  was  to  depict  what  he  saw  and 
was  otherwise  cognizant  of,  in  a  plain,  unaffected  style,  rarely  with 
comment,  and  always  having  a  regard  for  the  exact  truth.  His  clear 
understanding   of    events    and    his   lucid    recollections  of   what  had 


470  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

transpired  during  his  career,  make  of  estimable  value  his  accounts  of 
battles  and  expeditions  in  which  he  had  been.  The  topic,  perhaps, 
on  which  he  most  delighted  to  write,  next  to  those  incidents  in  which 
he  had  acted  a  part,  were  the  lives  of  men  with  whom  he  had  been 
associated.  Probably  there  has  been  no  better  sketch  made  of  the 
character  of  his  old  colonel,  Albert  Sidney  Johnston,  than  came  from 
the  pen  of  Colonel  Brackett.  His  articles  were  much  sought  after 
by  publishers  of  magazines  and  newspapers.  His  reputation  as  an 
author  he  had  made  long  prior  to  that  as  a  soldier.  About  1854,  he 
published  his  "Lane's  Brigade  in  Central  Mexico."  The  merit  of 
the  work  as  a  concise  and  interesting  narrative  of  the  part  of  the  war 
he  had  witnessed,  soon  attracted  attention  and  brought  its  author 
many  compliments.  vSoon  after  the  close  of  the  civil  war  he  pub- 
lished "The  History  of  the  United  States  Cavalry."  This  work 
covered,  in  part,  a  field  which  Colonel  Brackett  seldom  essayed  to 
cover  in  his  other  writings,  viz.,  matters  in  which  he,  himself,  did 
not  take  a  part,  or  was  not  associated  with  those  who  did.  How- 
ever, sources  of  accurate  information  were  open  to  him,  and  of 
these  he  availed  himself  so  thoroughly  that  he  produced  a  work 
which  has  been  and  is  considered  a  standard  authority  as  to  all 
matters  to  which  it  relates.  With  such  reputation  as  a  historian 
as  he  gained  by  writing  these  books,  articles  produced  by  him  were 
in  considerable  demand.  From  about  1880  to  1893,  he  wrote  exten- 
sively, never  once  drafting  upon  his  imagination  for  a  statement  and 
seldom  borrowing  from  the  knowledge  of  others,  but  confining  him- 
self to  what  he  had  the  best  of  knowledge,  viz.,  his  personal  cog- 
nizance of  it  in  some  way.  Seemingly  nothing  about  him  escaped 
his  observation  and  study.  The  plants,  birds,  animals,  the  people, 
all  were  his  subjects;  to  them  all  he  found  time  to  devote,  and 
wrote  long  articles  about  them  to  scientific  journals.  In  1891,  he 
wrote  an  article  on  the  Mexicans  (not  Greasers).  His  knowledge  of 
this  people  he  had  gleaned  from  his  several  sojourns  in  Texas  along 
the  Mexican  border;  in  this  article  is  found  as  fair  and  accurate 
summary  of  the  manners  and  characteristics  of  that  simple  people  as 
has  yet  been  written;  on  reading  it  one  is  impressed  at  once  with 
what  Spanish  civilization  has  done  for  the  Indian  in  Mexico  com- 
pared with  what  other  civilizations  have  done  for  him  elsewhere,  so 
well  does  the  author  keep  to  the  front  the  thought  that  these  people 
are  Indians  —  peaceable,  quiet,  contented  Indians,  to  be  alone  com- 
pared with  Indians  of  other  countries  of  North  America. 

Upon  retiring  from  active  service  in  1891,  Colonel  Brackett 
resided  in  Washington,  D.  C,  until  his  death,  June  25,  1896;  he  died 
from  paralysis;  had  been  ill  for  three  years,  and  although  quite  help- 
less for  a  year,  was  not  seriously  ill  until  the  last  month  of  his  life. 
His  remains  were  interred  at  Arlington,  Va.  Married  February  24, 
1853,  Martha  Tolman  Briggs,  born  May  7,  1829,  in  Maiden,  Mass., 
daughter  of  Rev.  Mr.  Avery  Briggs,  of  Rock  Island,  born  July  5, 
1795,  in  Stoughton,  Mass.,  and  wife,  Mary  Winsor,  born  September 
8,  1790,  died  August  6,  1867.  Married  (2nd)  September  4,  1882, 
Mrs.  Rose  Knight,  daughter  of  Judge  Martin  D.  McHenry.     Issue: 

1.  Albert  Lane,  b.  31  Mar.,  1854;   d.  30  Aug.,  1855. 

2.  Albert  Norris,  b.  2  Sept.,  1858;  d.  11  Sept.,  1858. 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  471 

3.  Eugene,  b.  20  July,  i860;  a  widower;  home,  in  Trinity  co., 
Cal. 

4.  Albert,  b.  9  Oct.,  1862;  home,  in  Trinity  co.,  Cal. 

FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From  Family  No.  n.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Ebenezer,  Greenleaf  C,  William. 

William  Brackett  was  born  July  9,  18 14;  died  November  23, 
1879;  married  Betsey  C.  Morey,  born  about  1820;  was  a  farmer; 
resided  at  Shorts  Falls,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.     Charles  W.,  b.  about  1848;  he  resides  in  Holliston,  Mass. 

FAMILY   NO.    27. 

From  Family  No.  11.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Ebenezer,  Greenleaf  C,  John  L. 

John  L.  Brackett  was  born  October  27,  1817,  in  Epsom,  N.  H., 
where  he  always  lived  except  for  a  short  period,  and  where  he  died 
November-  26,  1901.  Was  a  farmer;  the  farm  which  he  owned 
belonged  to  his  grandfather  and  had  been  owned  by  members  of  the 
family  since  the  proprietors  of  the  town  drew  lots  for  land  in  1730; 
married  (1st)  August  10,  1841,  in  Warrenton,  Ga.,  Miriam  E.  Eane, 
born  August  n,  1821,  in  Newark,  N.  J.,  died  February  6,  1845; 
(2nd)  February  14,  1849,  Phceba  Herald,  born  April  25,  1821,  in 
Temple,  N.  J.,  died  March  5,  1891,  in  Epsom.     Issue: 

1.  Edward  Greenleaf,  b.  18  Aug.,  1843,  in  Boston;  d.  22  Aug., 
1843. 

2.  Walter  Greenleaf,  b.  22  Oct.,  1S44;  served  in  co.  D,  15th  N.  H. 
vol.  inf.,  civil  war,  enlisted  19  Sept.,  1862;  d.  14  Aug.,  1863,  at  Mem- 
phis. Tennessee. 

3.  Louisa  Augusta,  b.  5  Sept.,  i860,  in  Epsom;  d.  9  Dec,  1870. 

FAMILY    NO.    28. 

From  Family  No.   12.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
James,  John,  John  C. 

John  Cook  Brackett  was  born  October  26,  1802,  in  Eee,  N.  H.; 
was  a  stage  driver  and  shoemaker;  resided  in  Eexington  and  at 
Woburn  Center,  Mass.;  married  May  15,  1827,  Mary  Munroe  Smith, 
born  Oct.  28,  1798,  died  August  25,  1857,  daughter  of  Jonas  and  wife, 
Polly  Underwood,  of  Lexington.  He  died  August  27,  1870.  Issue: 
1."    Sophronia  Smith,  b.  18  Feb.,  1828;  d.  29  May,  1832. 

2.  John  Cook,  b.  21  Apr.,  1831;  d.  31  May,  1832. 

3.  John  B.,  b.  31  Dec,  1835.'    See  family  38. 

4.  Mary  Sophronia,  b.  8  Sept.,  1838;   d.  5  May,  1859. 

FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From  Family  No.   14.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joshua,  Thomas,  John  H. 
John  Henry  Brackett  was  born  November  26,  1838,  in  Greenland; 
married  Mary  E.   A.  Lewis,  who  died  January  31,  1892,  daughter  of 


472  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Benjamin  and  wife,  Mary  Norton,  of  Sandwich,  N.  H.  The  farm 
bordering  on  the  bay  willed  by  Lieutenant  Joshua  to  his  son  Deacon 
James  Brackett,  descended  to  his  son  Joshua;  upon  the  death  of  the 
latter  the  farm  was  inherited  by  his  children  and  two  grandsons, 
Edwin  and  John  Pickering,  sons  of  his  daughter  Martha;  they  by 
inheritance  and  purchase  acquired  title  to  all  the  farm;  it  comprises 
two  hundred  fifty  acres;  in  recent  years  Mr.  Brackett  purchased  the 
farm  from  the  Pickerings;  it  has  been  in  the  family  nearly  two  hun- 
dred years. 

"And  now,  where  John  H.  Brackett  leads  a  quiet  life 
And  with  one  only  son  he  mourns  a  helpful  wife," 
wrote  Greenland's  bard. 

He  is  one  of  the  prosperous  farmers  and  substantial  business  men 
of  Greenland;  inherited  his  father's  farm  and  also  added  to  it  by  pur- 
chase; has  been  chairman  of  the  board  of  selectmen  for  nineteen  years 
at  different  times,  and  one  year  was  the  unanimous  choice  of  both 
political  parties;  was  town  treasurer  from  1877  to  1880,  and  represen- 
tative from  1883  to  1885;  was  secretary  of  St.  John's  lodge  of  F.  and 

A.  Masons,  of  Portsmouth,  from  1876  to  1904.     Issue: 

1.  Thomas  James,  b.  29  Jan.,  1890;  now  (1906)  attending  New 
Market  high  school;  is  studying  electricity. 

NINTH    GENERATION. 

FAMILY  NO.  30. 
From  Family  No.  16.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas.  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  John  W.,  Joseph  W.,  John  W. 
John  Weeks  Brackett  was  born  March  24,  1830,  in  Huutsburg, 
O.;  removed  in  1842,  to  Milwaukee  and  in  1854,  to  Bloomington,  at 
the  time  Taiton,  in  Wisconsin,  where  he  resided  the  remainder  of  his 
days.  Served  in  company  H,  7th  Wisconsin  volunteer  infantry  from 
1864  to  the  close  of  the  war;  was  chosen  in  1875,  sergeant  at  arms  of 
the  state  assembly,  and  in  such  capacity  served  all  papers  during  the 
impeachment  trial  of  Judge  Small  of  Milwaukee,  upon  witnesses  who 
testified  on  the  trial,  and  for  other  purposes.  In  1878,  entered  the 
railway  mail  service  of  the  United  States  and  continued  therein  until 
1885,  when  he  was  appointed  to  a  position  in  the  state  land  office; 
from  the  latter  position  he  retired  in  1890,  and  was  reappointed  as 
clerk  in  the  railway  mail  service  where  he  continued  for  six  years. 
In  1898,  he  was  appointed  to  the  same  position  which  he  held  at  the 
time  of  his  death,  May  1,  1899.     Married  December  31,  1857,  Eunice 

B.  Morse,  born  June  11,  1836,  died  July  21,  1905,  daughter  of  Amos 
and  wife,  Martha  Wingate  Brackett  of  Huutsburg,  O.;  was  a  faithful 
member  of  the  Baptist  church;  had  an  unswerving  faith  in  an  over- 
ruling power  for  good  (see  fam.  7,  this  div.)     Issue: 

1.  Eydia  Eliza,  b.  3  Dec,  1858;  d.  15  Feb.,  1887,  of  consumption. 

2.  Jennie  Sophronia,  b.  29  Nov.,  i860;  d.  3  Oct.,  1871. 

3.  Jay  Weeks,  b.  15  Apr.,  1862;  d.  22  Feb.,  1865. 

4.  James  Morse,  b.  16  Apr.,  1866;  d.  5  Oct.,  1884. 

5.  Joseph  Edward,  b.  25  Aug.,  1868;  d.  30  Oct.,  1871. 

0.  Martha  Warene,  b.  18  Apr.,  1871;  resides  in  Lancaster,  Wis.; 
is  a  teacher;  supplied  data  relative  to  descendants  of  her  grandfather, 
contained  in  this  history. 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  473 

7.     John  Weeks,  b.    i   Aug.,    1873;  resides  in  Lancaster;  clerk  in 
U.  S.  railway  mail  service;  mar.  12  Apr.,  1904,  Matilda  E.  Steppich, 
b.    8   Apr..    1880,    dau.   of  Jacob   and  wife,    Katharine  S.    Stauss,  of 
Hazel  Green,  later  of  Stitzer,  Wis.     Issue: 
1st.     Eunice  Katharine,  b.  11  Jan.,  1905. 

FAMILY    NO.    31. 

From  family  No.  16.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  John  W.,  Joseph  W.,  James  M. 

James  Miller  Brackett  was  born  July  16,  1831,  in  Huntsburg,  0.; 
with  his  parents  in  1842,  went  to  Wisconsin  and  settled  in  Brookfield, 
Waukesha  county,  where  he  lived  nine  years;  the  family  then  moved 
to  Bloomington  in  Grant  county.  Served  as  second  lieutenant  in 
company  A.,  20th  Wisconsin  volunteer  infantry  from  August  23,  1862, 
to  December  31,  1862,  when  he  resigned.  Was  connected  with  the 
publication  of  newspapers  in  Buffalo,  Chippewa  and  Eau  Claire 
counties  and  at  one  time  was  president  of  the  Eau  Claire  Free  Press 
company  which  published  a  daily  paper  in  Eau  Claire.  After  leaving 
the  army  he  was  deputy  provost  marshal  for  Buffalo  county  for  two 
years;  was  deputy  United  States  assessor  for  Chippewa  and  Dunn 
counties  for  lour  years;  receiver  of  the  land  office  in  Eau  Claire  dis- 
trict for  four  years;  and  postmaster  in  Eau  Claire  for  several  years. 
Married  March  19,  [854,  Fucina  A.  Hamilton,  daughter  of  Elisha  O., 
and  wife,  Tamazon  Coggeshall,  of  Joe  Davies  co.,  111.     Issue: 

1.  Marion  Annette,  b.  23  Dec,  1854;  mar.  (1st)  31  Jan.,  1877, 
Andrew  Tracy,  of  Eau  Claire,  Wis.,  d.  in  1884;  (2nd)  13  July,  1890, 
A.  L.  Bisbee. 

1'.      Ida  V.,  1).   16  Feb..   1856;   d.  2  Mar.,  1856. 

.'!.      Seward  Warren,  b.  5  Apr.,  1857;  resides  in  Great  Falls,  Mont. 

1.  Frank  Elisha,  b.  27  Jan.,  1859;  mar.  28  Sept..  1895,  Belle 
Palmer;  home,  in  Seattle.  Wash. 

5.  Charles  Wilber,  b.  19  Oct.,  i860;  is  blind;  lives  with  his  mother 
in  Marquette,  Neb. 

6.  Kate  Lucina.  b.  27  Nov.,  1863;  mar.  in  Apr.,  1886,  Albert  L> 
Morse;  home,  in  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

7.  John  Wallace,  b.  2  Apr.,  1865;  is  a  physician;  mar.  27  Sept., 
1893,  Sadie  Miller;  home,  in  Sturgis,  S.  D.     Issue: 

1st.     Inez  Margarite,  b.  19  Nov.,  1894;   d.  13  Mar.,  1899. 
2nd.     Elna  Augusta,  b.  10  July,  1897;  d.  7  Feb.,  1899. 
3d.     Margaret,  b.  14  Oct.,  1900;  d.  3  May,  1901. 
4th.     James  Herschel,  b.  25  Aug.,  IQ03. 

8.  Herbert  Nye,  b.  10  Sept.,  1866;  d.  13  Sept.,  1868. 

9.  Harvey  James,  b.  n  Aug.,  1868;  resides  in  Seattle,  Wash. 

10.  Jo  Miller,  b.  19  June,  1874;   resides  in  Redding,  Cal. 

FAMILY    NO.   32. 

From  Family  No.  16.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  John  W.,  Joseph  W.,  Joseph  W. 

Joseph  Warren  Brackett  was  born  March  12,  1836,  in  Huntsburg, 
O.  Passed  his  youth  in  the  towns  of  Brookfield  and  Bloomington, 
Wis.;  commenced  in  i860,  practice  of  law  in  Alma,  Buffalo  county. 


•474  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

In  the  fall  of  1862,  he  became  first  lieutenant  of  company  G,  25th 
Wisconsin  volunteer  infantry,  and  served  for  a  few  months;  resigned 
in  1863  and  removed  to  California;  he  resided  in  the  city  of  Redding 
in  that  state,  until  his  death  March  27,  1875.  Married  Celesta  A. 
Mann.     Issue: 

1.  Edmund  Warren,  b.  in  Feb.,  i860. 

2.  Harry  W.,  b.  in  Feb.,  1863. 

3.  John  Willis,  b.  in  1865. 

4.  Lottie  May. 

FAMILY    NO.    33. 

From  Family  No.  17.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  John  W.,  Adino  N.,  Adino  N. 
Adino  Nye  Brackett  was  born  November  29,  1850,  a  farmer  in 
Stitzer,  Grant  county,  Wis.,  formerly  a  resident  of  Lancaster,  Little 
Grant  and  Monroe,  Wis.,  in  the  order  named;  married  April  7,  1874, 
Martha  A.  Morse,  born  October  1,  1848,  daughter  of  Amos  and  wife, 
Martha  W.  Brackett  (see  fam.  7,  this  div.)  of  Huntsburg,  O.     Issue: 

1.  Albert  Nye,  b.  22  July,  1875;  mar.  18  Oct.,  1904,  Flora  Estelle 
Devereaux;  home,  in  Waterloo,  la. 

2.  Mahlon  August,  b.  18  Apr.,  1879;  mar.  13  Jan.,  1904,  Rosina 
Reis;  home,  in  Hustad,  la. 

3.  Eunice  May,  b.  21  May,  1883. 

FAMILY    NO.    34. 

From  Family  No.  21.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James,  James  W.,  Bailey  D. 
Bailey  Davenport  Brackett,  physician  and  pharmacist,  was  born 
August  26,  1855,  in  Rock  Island,  Illinois;  attended  school  in  Rock 
Island,  and  Rochester,  Ind.;  graduated  February  28,  1877,  from  the 
Indiana  Medical  college  in  Indianapolis;  practiced  at  Tippicanoe- 
town;  removed  to  Clay  pool,  Ind.;  where  he  practiced  until  his  death 
February  29,  1892.  Married  October  25,  1877,  Ida  E.  Wann,  born 
December  25,  1857,  died  August  20,  1904,  daughter  of  L.  C.  Wann 
and  wife,  Sophia  Schuman,  of  Tippicanoe,  Ind.     Issue: 

1.  Bertha  Dessie,  b.  22  Oct.,  1878,  in  Tippicanoetown. 

2.  Alice,  b.  7  Sept.,  1885,  in  Claypool. 

3.  James  Wolfe,  b.  19  Nov.,  1887,  in  Claypool. 

4.  Ethel  Bailey,  b.  30  Dec,  1891,  in  Claypool. 

FAMILY    NO.    35. 

From  Family  No.  23.  Descent:  Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James,  William,  William  S. 
William  Starr  Brackett  was  born  September  27,  1850,  in  Rock 
Island,  111.  He  accompanied  his  father  on  a  trip  to  California  across 
the  plains  in  1864,  when  the  father  went  to  California  to  settle  up  the 
estate  of  his  brother,  Gen.  John  E.  Brackett,  who  died  seized  of  val- 
uable tracts  of  land  in  Sonoma  county.  The  son  attended  the  City 
college  in  San  Francisco  during  the  years  1864-5.  Upon  their  return 
from  California  he  was  sent  in   1866   to   attend  the  Royal  Ludwig- 


JAMES,    THE    PEACEMAKER  475 

Maximilian  university  of  Munich,  where  he  remained  for  two  years, 
returning  to  America  in  1868.  Entered  in  1871,  Haward  Law  school 
and  was  graduated  in  1873.  Commenced  practice  of  law  in  Chicago; 
in  1 88 1,  removed  to  Peoria,  111.,  where  he  continued  to  reside  until 
his  death  in  1903.  In  1898,  was  commissioned  lieutenant-colonel  of 
the  Illinois  volunteers,  War  with  Spain.  Married  (1st)  December 
19,  1878,  Amy  Ballance,  who  died  June  29,  1883,  daughter  of  Colonel 
Charles  Ballance  and  wife,  Julia  M.  Schnebly,  of  Chicago;  (2nd) 
January  17,  1888,  Julia  S.  McGovvan,  daughter  of  Thomas  Stewart 
McGowan  and  wife,  Eleanora  Diehl,  of  Chicago.  Colonel  Brackett 
was  interested  in  the  family  history  and  supplied  a  great  deal  of  the 
data  appearing  herein  pertaining  to  the  descendants  of  his  grand- 
father.    Issue: 

1.     William,  b.    18  Dec,  1880,  in  Chicago;  appointed  in  1896,  a 
cadet  in  the  Xaval  Academy  at  Annapolis,  Md.;   is  lieutenant  in  the 
Marine  corps;  mar.  Neddie  Sanford.     Issue: 
1st.     William. 

-.     Julia  McGowan,  b.  14  June,  1890,  in  Tacoma,  Wash. 

FAMILY    NO.   36. 

From  Family  No.  24.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James,  Charles,  Lyman  M. 

Lyman  M.  Brackett  was  born  September  9,  1854,  in  Rochester, 
Ind.,  where  he  is  a  banker,  manufacturer  of  hardwood  lumber,  and  a 
wholesale  grocer;  is  active  in  politics  though  no  seeker  for  office;  was 
presidential  elector  in  1904;  also  a  candidate  for  elector  in  1892. 
Married  October  17,  1877,  Sara  J.  Merriam,  born  April  24,  1855, 
daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Jane  E.  Smith,  of  Brandon,  Vt.;  home, 
in  Rochester.     Issue: 

1.     Anna  Zoe,  b.   14  July,   1878;  mar.  28  Nov.,  1900,  Maurice  C. 
Shelton;   home,  in  Rochester.     Issue: 

1st.     Lyman  Brackett,  b.  16  Feb.,  1902. 

1'.     Charles  Conant,  b.  23  Aug.,  1883. 

3.     Lyman  Ely,  b.  19  Nov.,  1892. 

FAMILY    NO.    37. 

From  Family  No.  24.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
Joseph,  James,  Charles,  Charles  W. 

Charles  W.  Brackett  was  born  September  19,  1862,  in  Rochester, 
Ind.;  is  a  manufacturer  of  lumber;  married  September  23,  1885,  Ella 
M.  Mercer,  born  November  7,  1864,  daughter  of  Thomas  H.  and 
wife,  Mary  Quivev,  of  Rochester,  Ind.;  home,  in  Rochester.     Issue: 

1.  Mary,  b.  1  Oct.,  1888. 

2.  Bernice,  b.  20  Nov.,  1889. 

3.  Ruth,  b.  8  Oct.,  1895. 

FAMILY    NO.    38. 

From  Family  No.  28.     Descent:     Anthony,  Thomas,  Joshua,  James, 
James,  John,  John  C,  John  B. 
John  Billings  Brackett  was  born  December  31,  1835,  in  Woburn, 
Mass.;  at  the  age  of  fourteen  years  he   determined   upon  his  life's 


176  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

work,  preferring  the  ministry  to  the  law,  and  left  the  town  school  and 
commenced  attendance  at  Phillips'  academy,  Andover,  Mass.,  where 
he  remained  until  the  summer  of  1853.  In  September  of  that  year 
he  entered  Brown  university,  Providence,  R.  I.;  graduated  with  the 
third  honor  of  his  class  in  1857;  then  entered  the  Newton  Theologi- 
cal seminary  at  Newton  Center,  Mass.,  where  he  remained  until  June, 
1859.  Accepted  the  pastorate  of  the  Lafayette  Place  Baptist  church 
in  Poughkeepsie,  X.  Y.;  severed  his  connection  with  it  in  Novem- 
ber, 1865,  and  began  work  in  First  church  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.,  East- 
ern district;  while  with  this  charge,  the  Rochester  university  con- 
ferred upon  him  the  degree  of  doctor  of  divinity  at  its  commencement 
exercises  in  the  year  1870;  he  severed  connection  with  it  in  February, 
1873,  with  shattered  health.  In  April,  1873,  commenced  his  pastor- 
ate in  the  First  church,  Lynn,  Mass.,  where  he  remained  until 
February,  1878;  next  served  as  pastor  of  First  church  of  Charlestown, 
Mass.,  until  May  1,  1880,  when  he  began  his  pastorate  in  Brookline, 
Mass.,  closing  it  only  on  account  of  ill  health,  April  1,  1888. 

He  had  large  blue  eyes,  high  forehead,  thick  brown  hair  and 
wore  a  full  beard;  was  six  feet  in  height  and  weighed  one  hundred 
seventy-five  pounds;  at  the  age  of  fourteen  years  was  tall  and  well 
developed;  had  a  commanding,  magnetic  presence,  forceful  delivery, 
and  excellent  oratorical  powers,  which  insured  large  attentive  con- 
gregations. He  died  December  5,  1889.  Married  June  30,  1859, 
Sarah  L.  Mason,  of  Providence,  R.  I.,  born  16  Apr.,  1837,  daughter 
of  Nathan  and  wife,  Emeline  Armington.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Monroe,   b.    24  July,    i860;  d.    25  Oct.,    1896;  mar.    22 
Dec,  1887",  Charles  H.  Dole. 

2.  Grace  Mason,  b.    n   Mar.,    1868;  mar.  24  Aug.,    1893,   Robert 
E.  Lewis;  connected  with  Y.  M.  C.  A.,  in  Shanghai,  China.     Issue: 

1st.     John  B.  Brackett,  b.  18  July,  1894,  in  Berkshire,  Vt. 
2nd.     Neil  Huntington,   b.  27  Aug.,    1895,  in  Brookline,   Mass. 
3d.     Miriam  Ellsworth,  b.  23  Sept.,  1896,  in  Allston,  Mass. 
4th.     Philip  Haynes,  b.  29  Oct.,  1898,  in  Shanghai,  China. 
5th.     Alice  Brackett,  b.  4  Aug.,  1900,  in  Shanghai,  China. 
Gth.     Charles  Mason,  b.  3  July,  1903,  in  West  Berkshire,  Vt. 
7th.     Arthur  Armington,  b.  twin  with  Charles  M. 

3.  Alice  Emeline,  b.  14  June,  1874;  mar.  Dr.   Henry  F.  Smyth; 
home,  in  Germantown,  Pa.     Issue: 

1st.     Henry  F.,  b.  5  June,  1903. 


CAPTAIN    NATHANIEL  477 


DIVISION    NO.   17. 


CAPTAIN  NATHANIEL    BRACKETT    OF   GREEN- 
LAND AND  HIS  DESCENDANTS. 

FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 

From    Chapter     VII.      Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua.    Na- 
thaniel. 

Nathaniel  Brackett,  the  youngest  of  the  sons  of  Joshua,  was  born 
in  Greenland  about  1721;  he  inherited  the  homestead,  and  the  fine 
old  mansion  house  erected  by  his  father.  He  was  named  for  his 
father's  maternal  uncle  Nathaniel,  the  son  of  Michael  Mitton,  killed 
by  the  Indians  in  August,  1676,  in  Falmouth.  Served  in  the  French 
and  Indian  wars  of  his  day;  in  1745,  was  a  private  in  the  company  at 
Greenland  commanded  by  his  brother.  Captain  John  Brackett;  his 
name  appears  in  a  list  of  those  of  the  company  who  were  impressed 
by  its  captain  to  unload  stores  from  a  ship.  Subsequently  he  was 
promoted  to  lieutenant  and  afterwards  is  mentioned  as  Captain  Na- 
thaniel. There  is  nothing  further  now  known  as  to  his  military  ser- 
vice; he  probably  was  with  Captain  John  Brackett  at  fort  William 
and  Mary.  Married  Elizabeth  March,  of  Kittery,  and  died  about 
1778;   will  proved  September  3,  of  that  year.     Issue: 

1.  Mary,  bapt.  in   1745;  mar.   1  Oct.,  1767,  Capt.  Jonathan  Hoit, 
of  Stratham,  b.  3  May,  1745,  d.  20  May,  .     Issue: 

1st.  Nathaniel,  b.  7  Aug.,  1768;  mar.  Lydia  Wiggin:  d.  17 
May,  1855. 

2nd.     Sarah,  b.  20  Aug.,  1771;   mar.  Coker  Fifield,  of  Stratham. 

3d.  Joseph,  b.  17  June,  1774;  mar.  (1st)  Betsey  Odlin,  of  Exe- 
ter;   (2nd)  Mariam  Smith,  of  Stratham. 

4th.      Elizabeth,  b.  9  Aug.,  1777;   mar.  Dudley  Pottle. 

5th.      Mary,  b.  10  June,  1779;  mar.  Samuel  Piper. 

6th.      Deborah,  b.  7  Nov.,  1784;  mar.  John  Pickering. 

7th.     Martha,  b.  4  Sept.,  1787;  mar.  John  Avery,  of  Greenland. 

8th.     Jonathan,  b.  24  Feb.,  1790;  d.  young. 

2.  Elizabeth,  bapt.  9  Dec,  1748;  mar.  Mark  Wiggin. 

3.  Nathaniel,  d.  in  Nov.,  1753,  aged  8  months. 

4.  Thomas,  b.  about  1756.     See  family  2. 


SIXTH    GENERATION 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From    Family    No.    1.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    Na- 
thaniel, Thomas. 
Thomas  Brackett  was  born  about  1756,  in  Greenland.     The  War 
of  the  Revolution  had  not  been  long  commenced  before  he  showed 


478  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

the  rebellious  spirit  within  him.  Not  content  with  belonging  to  a 
patriot  military  company,  he  was  anxious  to  learn  to  be  a  better  sol- 
dier than  indifferent  officers  could  teach  him  to  be,  as  the  following 
petition  shows.  He  with  his  cousin,  Joshua  Brackett,  son  of  James, 
was  among  its  signers;   it  is  dated  June  26,  1775. 

"Whereas  we  the  Subscribers,  inhabitants  of  gree 
Nland,  being  duly  sensible  of  the  Importance  of 
Being  instructed  in  the  military  art  in  this 
Alarming  cricis,  &  willing  to  be  taught  the  same  that 
We  may  be  prepared  to  defend  the  liberties  of  our 
Country,  which  we  hold  dearer  than  our  lives,  and 
Whereas  our  officers,  who  were  appointed 
And  commissioned  by  the  governor,  have  been  negle- 
Gent  in  larnying  us  the  same,  we  have,  therefore, 
Thought  fit  to  chose  thomas  berry,  captain, 
Greenleaf  Clark,  first  lieut.,  david  simpson,  second 
Lieut.,  thomas  Johnson,  ensign;  we  tharfore  pray  that  the 
Honbe  congress  woud  confirm  our  said  choyse  and 
Yure  petitioners  are  in  duty  bound,  shall  ever  pray." 
So  much  did  he  improve  in  the  manual  of  arms  that  he  was 
appointed  lieutenant  in  Captain  Mark  Wiggin's  compan}r,   Colonel 
Pierce  Long's  regiment  in  which  capacity  he  was  mustered  August 
30,  1776,  not  then  twenty-one  years  of  age,  and  served  to  January  7, 
1777.     He  did  duty,  too,  elsewhere  than  in  Greenland;  was  stationed 
at  fort  Ticonderoga  in  the  fall  of  1776  and  through  some  mishap  lost 
his  clothing,   for  which  loss  he  was  recompensed  by  the  province. 
Thus  we  see  that  all  of  the  grandsons  of  Joshua  Brackett,  of  military 
age,  were  soldiers  in  the  patriot  army. 

Married  October  22,  1 7 7 S ,  Martha  Folsom,  born  January  n, 
1760,  died  May  27,  1835,  daughter  of  Colonel  John:  he  was  of 
Stratham,  born  July  7,  1723,  died  April  17,  1787,  married  (2nd) 
March  17,  1757,  Mrs.  Martha  Brackett,  was  son  Jeremiah;  he  was  of 
New  Market,  was  born  about  1680-5,  died  in  1757,  married  Elizabeth 
,  was  son  of  Deacon  John;  he  was  born  in  1640,  died  in  17 15,  mar- 
ried Abigail  Perkins,  was  son  of  John;  he  was  baptized  in  1615,  in 
Hingham,  Eng.,  died  December  27,  1681,  in  Exeter,  N.  H.,  married 
October  4,  1636,  Man7,  oldest  daughter  of  Edward  and  Mary  Clark 
Gilman.  Martha  Brackett  nee  Wiggin,  born  in  1729,  was  daughter 
of  Thomas  Wiggin,  and  widow  of  Thomas  Brackett,  uncle  of  Thomas 
Brackett.  Abigail  Perkins  was  daughter  of  Abraham  Perkins  of 
Hampton,  N.  H. 

It  is  traditional  that  Martha  had  beautiful  arms  and  hands,  and 
the  sight  of  these  resting  on  a  window  ledge  one  day  as  the  young 
lieutenant  passed,  it  was,  that  attracted  him  and  made  him  one  of  her 
suitors.  Their  married  life  was  brief.  His  farm,  the  one  his  fore- 
fathers had  owned,  is  on  the  banks  of  the  Great  bay.  In  certain  sea- 
sons this  body  of  water  is  dangerous  for  small  sailboats  because  of 
high  winds  that  suddenly  sweep  over  it.  While  in  such  boat  and  but 
a  short  distance  from  the  shore  and  his  house,  the  boat  was  capsized 
by  a  sudden  gust  of  wind,  and  he  was  drowned. 

Stratham  town  records  read — "Lt.  Thomas  Brackett,  Eliph 
Wiggin,1  jr.,  and  Samuel  Kinnison  were  drowned  near  George 
Brackett's  point  by  the  up-setting  of  a  small  float  April  14,  1785,  and 


CAPTAIN    NATHANIEL,    OF    GREENLAND  479 

were  all  taken  up  the  next  morning  and  were  buried  the  16th  day  of 
April,  1785.  Lt.  Brackett  and  Eliph  Wiggin  were  buried  in  1  grave 
and  Samuel  Kinnisou  in  the  same  burying  place,  namely  the  orchard 
of  Lt.  Brackett  deed." 

His  widow  did  not  long  remain  a  widow.  Working  on  the  farm 
was  a  hand,  Shadrack  Robinson.  On  him  the  fair  Martha  looked 
with  favor.  From  what  follows  it  appears  that  looks  alone  wholly 
failed  her  purpose.  On  a  Sunday  evening  Shadrack  came  down 
stairs  dressed  in  that  day's  best,  and  the  confident  widow  asked — 
"Are  you  going  out?"  He  answered  "Yes,  going  courting." 
"But  there  is  courting  to  be  done  right  at  home,"  said  Martha.  And 
Shadrack  went  out  courting  no  more.  They  were  married  Septem- 
ber 2,  1787,  had  a  family  of  four  and  a  descendant  of  one  of  them 
married  a  French,  a  descendant  of  Thomas.  Mrs.  Martha  French 
was  authority  for  the  account  of  the  widow's  courtship.     Issue: 

1.     Nathaniel,  b.  12  July,  1779.     See  family  3. 

:.'.     Thomas,  b.  in  1781.     See  family  4. 


SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From    Family    No.    2.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,   Joshua,    Na- 
thaniel, Thomas,  Nathaniel. 

Nathaniel  Brackett  was  born  July  12,  1779,  in  Greenland;  was 
drafted  to  serve  during  the  War  of  181 2  and  went  to  Portland  to  join 
the  army,  when  the  war  ended;  was  a  carpenter;  moved  from  Green- 
land to  Belfast,  Me.,  about  the  time  of  his  marriage;  resided  in  Bel- 
fast to  about  1816;  removed  to  Stratham,  N.  H.,  where  he  resided 
until  about  1826,  then  went  to  live  in  New  Market  where  he  dwelt 
until  his  death,  June  8,  1857.  Married  September  4,  1801,  Elizabeth 
Brackett,  born  June  23,  1781,  died  November  23,  1856,  (see  fam.  2, 
div.  14.)     Issue: 

1.  Elizabeth,  b.  23  July,  1804,  in  Belfast,  Me.;  mar.  (1st)  Joseph 
Brackett  (see  issue  fam.  12,  div.  14),  mar.  (2nd)  Samuel  Fellows; 
d.  4  Dec,  1897,  in  Lowell,  Mass. 

li.  Thomas,  b.  4  Nov.,  1806,  in  Belfast,  Me.;  mar.  Eliza  Jones, 
is  dec;  had  two  children  who  d.  unmar.;  he  d.  in  July,  1842. 

.;.  Martha  A.,  b.  17  Mar.,  1811,  in  Belfast,  Me.;  mar.  2  Nov., 
1830,  Edmund  Durell  French,  a  carpenter,  b.  25  Nov.,  1805,  in  New 
Market,  N.  H.,  d.  6  Apr.,  1858,  son  of  Reuben  and  wife,  Lydia 
Churchill,  of  New  Market.  Reuben  was  born  in  Stratham,  and  wife 
in  New  Market;  Mrs.  French  lived  over  80  years  in  New  Market, 
attained  the  great  age  of  93  years,  and  had  the  unimpaired  use  of  her 
vigorous  mentality  to  the  end.  She  was  very  proud  of  her  lineage 
and  took  great  delight  in  the  family  history.  During  the  last  years 
of  her  life  her  friends  and  relatives  would  assemble  at  her  home  on 
the  anniversary  of  her  birthday  much  to  her  pleasure  and  enjoyment. 
The  notes  she  had  made  relative  to  persons  of  our  name,  of  whom 
she  had  read  or  had  heard,  were  the  means  of  informing  the  writer 
as  to  the  whereabouts  of  namesakes,  he  would  have  been  unlikely  to 


480  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

have  learned  from  other  sources.  For  these  favors  it  was  alone  in 
the  power  of  the  writer  to  make  a  return  by  sending  to  her  to  read 
such  documents  of  interest  as  from  time  to  time  came  into  his  posses- 
sion, fearing  that  she  would  not  live  to  see  their  contents  in  this  his- 
tory. She  supplied  nearly  all  the  data  contained  in  this  work  relative 
to  the  descendants  of  her  great-grandfather.  She  was  benevolent, 
sympathetic  and  charitable — humane  characteristics  that  need  no 
adorning.  Her  death  was  the  result  of  a  shock  she  had  received  a 
few  weeks  prior.  During  her  long,  quiet  lifetime,  experiencing  only 
those  changes  which  are  the  lot  of  mortals  living  their  fewer  years, 
she  saw  more  of  those  changes  than  the}' — saw  her  friends  grow  old 
and  die  with  their  children  and  grandchildren  about  them;  saw  their 
children  grow  old  and  pass  away  leaving  two  generations  of  descend- 
ants to  mourn  them;  saw  their  grandchildren  become  men  and  women, 
who,  with  their  children  and  their  children's  children,  followed  her  to 
the  grave.  She  died  9  Mar.,  1905 — lacked  a  few  days  of  complet- 
ing her  94th  year.  She  had  been  a  widow  for  over  45  years.  Death 
came  to  her  as  sleep  to  a  child.     Issue: 

1st.      Lydia  F.,  b.  11  Nov.,  1831;  home,  in  New  Market. 

2nd.  Martha  J.,  b.  19  Apr.,  1834;  mar.  18  Sept.,  1861,  her 
cousin,  Reuben  French,  who  d.  29  Mar.,  1874,  in  New  Market,  son 
of  Thomas  French  of  Tuftonboro,  N.  H.,  was  for  13  years  head  pos- 
tal clerk  on  the  Boston  &  Maine  railroad;  Martha  J.  resides  in 
New  Market.     Issue: 

I.  Walter  Bruce,  b.  12  Oct.,  1864;  d.  in  Aug.,  1865. 

II.  Leona  Blanche,  b.  8  June,  1869;  home,  in  New  Market. 
3d.     George  E.,   b.   9  Jan.,    1836;   d.  unmar.   20  June,    1893,  in 

Detroit,  Mich. 

4th.  Laura  A.,  b.  8  Aug..  1838;  mar.  in  Sept.,  1862,  Abel  S. 
Haley,  b.  in  Tuftonboro,  d.  14  Apr.,  1891,  in  Somerville,  Mass.,  son 
of  Abel  Haley,  was  a  dealer  in  provisions  for  36  years  at  the  Quincy 
market  in  Boston;   Mrs.  Haley  resides  in  Somerville.     Issue: 

I.  Abel,  b.  16  Aug.,  1870,  in  Boston;  d.  14  Jan.,  1871. 

II.  Fred,  b.  6  Jan.,  1872,    in  Boston;  mar.  5  June.    1901,  in 
Somerville,  Mass.,  Gertrude  Gray. 

III.  Blanche,    b.   28  Dec,    1876,    in  Boston;     mar.   11    Oct., 
1905,  in  Boston,  Joseph  Myron  Lowell. 

5th.     John  O..  b.  31  Oct.,  1842. 

6th.  Sarah  E.,  b.  30  Sept.,  1847;  mar.  in  1873,  William  P. 
Reynolds,  dealer  in  provisions  at  Quincy  market  in  Boston;  home, 
in  Somerville.      Issue: 

I.  George  Edmund,  b.  30  Oct.,  1874,  in  New  Market. 

II.  Ralph  French,  b.  30  Aug.,  1880,  in  New  Market. 

4.  Shadrack  R..  b.  22  May,  1813,  in  Belfast;  mar.  (2nd)  Mrs. 
Elizabeth  S.  Cross,  who  d.  18  May,  1875;  he  d.  in  1892,  in  Lowell, 
Mass.     No  issue. 

5.  Mary  J.,  b.  1  Nov.,  1816,  in  Stratham,  N.  H.;  mar.  John  J. 
Robinson,  who  d.  29  Oct.,  1900;  she  d.  15  Aug.,  1872;  resided  in 
New  Market.     Issue: 

1st.  Thomas  B.,  b.  25  Dec,  1843,  in  New  Market,  N.  H.;  is  a 
farmer  in  New  Market;  mar.  Ella  C.  Roach,  b.  20  July.  1842,  dau. 
of  William  S.  and  wife,  Caroline  Eastman.     Issue: 


CAPTAIN    NATHANIEL,    OF    GREENLAND  481 

I.  Charles  E.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1876;  instructor  in  Brown  univer- 
sity, Providence,  R.  I. 

2nd.  John  Alfred,  b.  3  July,  1846,  in  New  Market,  N.  H., 
where  he  is  a  farmer;  never  mar. 

3d.  George  Edwin,  b.  31  May,  1848,  in  New  Market,  N.  H.;  d. 
29  Sept.,  1899,  in  Brookline,  Mass.;  was  a  dealer  in  provisions  in 
Quincy  market,  Boston;   mar.  Mary  Wilcox.     Issue: 

I.  Maude,  b.  6  June,  1875,  in  Boston;  mar.  Jay  Osgood 
Richards;   home,  in  Lexington,  Mass.     Issue: 

a.  Edwin  Robinson,  b.  25  May,  1901,  in  Brookline. 

b.  Gordon  Draper,  b.  2  Dec,  1902,  in  Lexington. 

c.  Katheryn,  b.  20  Aug.,  1906. 

II.  George  Edwin,  b.  12  June,  1877,  in  Cambridge;  gradu- 
ate of  Dartmouth  college;  d.  22  Nov.,  1906,  in  Brookline. 

III.  Orton  Brackett,  b.  12  Nov.,  1880,  in  Boston. 

IV.  Mildred,  b.  12  July,  1885,  in  Lexington;  d.  10  Aug., 
1886. 

4th.  Kate  E.,  b.  28  June,  1850,  in  New  Market,  N.  H.;  mar. 
John  Harris  Knight,  an  expressman  between  Boston  and  New  Mar- 
ket, b.  iS  June,  1844,  son  of  Bailey  and  wife,  Mary  Harris,  of  Atkin- 
son, N.  H.;  home,  in  New  Market.     Issue: 

I.  Fred  Willis,  b.  18  June,  1885;  mar.  Evelyn  E.  Bentley; 
home,  in  New  Market.     Issue: 

a.     John  Bentley,  b.  19  Sept.,  1906. 

6.  Nathaniel,  b.  27  June,  181 8.     See  family  5. 

7.  John  B.,  b.  1  July,  1821.     See  family  6. 

8.  Jeremiah,  b.  11  Aug.,  iS2^,  in  Stratham;  d.  22  Sept.,  1892,  in 
St.  Paul. 

9.  Alfred  B.,  b.  21  May,  1S26.      See  family  7. 

FAMILY     NO.    4. 

From    Family   No.    2.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    Na- 
thaniel, Thomas,  Thomas. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  born  in  1781  in  Greenland;  was  a  farmer; 
married  Mehitable  Furber,  of  Newington,  N.  H.,  daughter  of  Levi; 
died  April  22,  1831,  in  Greenland.     Issue: 

1.     Thomas,  b.  22  Mar.,  1810.     See  family  8. 

1'.  Levi,  b.  in  1816;  in  his  younger  days  was  a  policeman;  after- 
wards settled  on  a  farm;  resided  in  Portsmouth;  mar.  Mary  Jane 
Adams,  who  d.  3  Dec,  1872,  aged  55  years  and  8  months;  he  d.  8 
Oct.,  1S76.     No  issue. 

3.  Martha  Folsom,  b.  in  1814;  never  mar.;  d.  28  Mar.,  1881,  in 
Portsmouth. 

4.  Charles,  when  a  young  man  went  south;  was  captain  of  a 
steamboat  running  on  coast  of  Florida;  mar.  and  d.  in  that  state; 
no  issue  known. 

0.     Jane  Rosamond,  b.  in  1824;  is  unmar.;  resides  in  Greenland. 

<;.  James  Parrot,  b.  in  1826;  resided  in  Greenland;  never  mar.; 
his  death  in  1904  was  from  an  accident.  He  became  chilled  by  fall- 
ing in  the  snow  and  because  of  his  enfeebled  condition  from  age  was 
unable  to  rescue  himself;  when  found  life  was  not  extinct;  his  extrem- 
ities were  badly  frozen  and  shortly  he  died.     In  front  of  his  house,  on 


482  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

the  roadside,  was  a  box  which  in  the  fall  of  the  year  was  filled  with 
fruit,  and  on  the  box  were  the  words  "This  is  for  you."  He  was  free 
to  talk  on  genealogical  matters  with  those  who  called  to  see  him,  but 
never  would  write  a  word.  The  writer  wasted  many  a  stamp  endeav- 
oring to  get  a  letter  from  him. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From    Family    No.    3.     Descent:     Anthony,   Thomas,    Joshua,    Na- 
thaniel, Thomas,  Nathaniel,  Nathaniel. 

Nathaniel  Brackett  was  born  June  27,  1818,  in  Stratham,  N.  H.; 
married  November  1,  1840,  Eucinda  H.  Turner,  born  July  4,  1819, 
in  Burlington,  Vt.;  removed  to  San  Jose,  Cal.,  where  he  died  Novem- 
ber 3,  1903.     Issue: 

1.  Nathaniel  Bruce,  b.  22  Apr.,  1844;  not  mar. 

2.  Eydia  Elizabeth  Edna,  b.  22  Sept.,  1846;  is  not  mar. 

3.  Lewis  Philander,  b.   15  Jan.,  1851;  mar.  8  Oct.,  1890,  Cora  E. 
O'Bleness,  of  Santa  Cruz,  Cal.;  home,  in  Alviso,  Cal.     Issue: 

1st.     Ralph,  b.  7  Oct.,  1892,  in  San  Jose,  Cal. 

2nd.     Harvey,  b.  30  Sept.,  1894,  in  Santa  Cruz,  Cal. 

3d.     Eydia  Edna,  b.  7  Oct.,  1897,  in  Alviso,  Cal. 


FAMILY    NO.   6. 

From    Family    No.    3.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,   Joshua,    Na- 
thaniel, Thomas,  Nathaniel,  John  B. 

John  B.  Brackett  was  born  July  1,  1821,  in  Stratham,  N.  H., 
married  Elizabeth  Burr;  died  January  14,  1889,  in  New  Market;  re- 
sided in  California.     Issue: 

1.  Edward,  who  resides  in  West  Oakland,  Cal.;  is  mar. 

2,  Charles  A.  B.,  who  resides  in  San  Francisco,  Cal. 

FAMILY   NO.    7. 

From    Family    No.    3.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    Na- 
thaniel, Thomas,  Nathaniel,  Alfred  B. 

Alfred  Bruce  Brackett  was  born  May  21,  1826,  in  New  Market; 
removed  to  Minnesota  and  was  in  that  state  at  the  commencement  of 
the  civil  war;  he  entered  the  military  service  at  an  early  date;  was 
commissioned  February  24,  1862,  major  of  5th  Iowa  volunteer  cav- 
alry; breveted  colonel  March  13,  1865;  commanded  Brackett's  battal- 
ion from  its  organization  to  muster-out.  This  battalion  was  com- 
posed of  four  companies;  companies  A,  B  and  C  were  organized  at 
Fort  Snelling,  Minn.,  in  the  last  three  months  of  1861,  as  1st,  2nd 
3d  companies  of  Minnesota  cavalry,  and  were  subsequently  assigned 
to  5th  Iowa  volunteer  cavalry,  where  they  served   until  they  were 


CAPTAIN    NATHANIEL,    OF    GREENLAND  483 

detached  from  that  regiment  and  with  another  company  were  formed 
into  a  battalion  and  designated  as  "B,rackett's  battalion  of  Minnesota 
cavalry,"  in  accordance  with  orders  of  the  War  Department  of  Febru- 
ary 25,  1864.  It  was  mustered  out  by  companies  at  different  dates 
from  May  16  to  June  1,  1866.  The  command  saw  much  active  and 
hazardous  service.  Colonel  Brackett  gained  distinction  because  of 
his  military  achievements.  After  the  close  of  the  war  he  became  a 
resident  of  Minneapolis;  later  of  St.  Paul,  Minn.;  was  one  of  its 
honored  citizens  until  his  death  September  22,  1892.  Married  (1st) 
Mary  Elizabeth  Ferguson  who  died  November  12,  1871;  (2nd)  Sep- 
tember 22,  1875,  Martha  L,.  Ferguson,  born  February  22,  1852,  sister 
of  his  first  wife,  and  daughter  of  Dennis  Ferguson  and  wife,  Mary  A. 
Shapleigh,  of  South  Berwick,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Mamie  F.,  b.  24  Sept.,  1867,  in  Minneapolis,  Minn.;  mar.  30 
Oct.,  1888,  Orson  Willbert  Brenizer,  a  manufacturer,  b.  10  Oct.,  i860, 
son  of  Hugh  H.  and  wife,  Lizzie  Wheeler,  of  Westfield,  O.;  have 
resided  in  Duluth,  Minn.,  Pittsburg  and  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  in  the 
order  named.     Issue: 

1st.     Roy  Courtland,  b.  19  Apr.,  1890. 

2nd.     Clarence  Bruce,  b.  31  Jan.,  1895. 

3d.  Stuart  Brackett,  b.  14  Mar.,  1898. 
'_'.  Grace,  b.  26  Aug.,  1869,  in  Minneapolis;  mar.  (1st)  26  Sept., 
1899,  John  Albert  Nesbitt,  b.  22  June,  1863,  d.  13  Apr.,  1902,  son  of 
George  Knight  Nesbitt  and  wife,  Mary  Jane  Dunn,  of  Cowansville, 
Quebec;  (2nd)  26  Nov.,  1903,  Frank  Arnold,  lawyer,  b.  9  July,  1867, 
son  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Hewitt,  of  Chester,  Eng.;  home,  in 
St.  Paul.     Issue: 

1st.     Alberta   Geraldine   Knight   Nesbitt,    b.    1    Aug.,    1902,   in 
Cowansville,  Quebec. 

2nd.     Frank  Evert  Arnold,  b.  26  Apr.,  1905. 

3.  H.  Bruce,  b.  6  Nov.,  1871;  mar.  Sarah  Littlefield;  home,  in 
South  Berwick.     Issue: 

1st.     Leslie  Bruce. 
2nd.     Edith. 

4.  Elizabeth,  b.  6  Aug.,  1876;  mar.  Harry  R.  Fairchild;  home, 
in  St.  Paul,  at  349  Sherman  street. 


FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family   No.    4.     Descent:     Anthony,    Thomas,    Joshua,    Na- 
thaniel, Thomas,  Thomas,  Thomas. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  born  March  22,  1810,  in  Greenland;  in 
early  life  was  a  policeman  in  Portsmouth,  N.  H.,  later  drove  stage 
for  many  years  between  Portsmouth  and  Hallowell,  Me.;  subsequently 
was  a  boss  teamster;  married  August  27,  1832,  Jane  Walden,  born 
December  27,  1811,  died  March  14,  1886;  he  died  August  19,  1871, 
in  Portsmouth.     Issue: 

1.-     Francis  Cidney,  b.   20  Oct.,  1833,  in  Portsmouth;  d.  in  Dec, 

i833- 


484  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2.  Thomas,  b.  26  Feb.,  1835,  in  Portsmouth;  never  mar.;  d.  29 
July,  1895. 

3.  Charles  Edwin,  b.  12  May,  1836,  in  Portsmouth;  mar.  Martha 
Tucker;  d.  in  Nov.,  1894.     Issue: 

1st.  Herman  Alvah,  butcher;  home,  in  Portsmouth;  mar.  Vir- 
ginia V.  Shannon;  children,  Guy;  Violet;  Chester;  and  Charles 
Edwin. 

4.  Eliza  Jane,  b.  13  Jan.,  1838,  in  Portsmouth;  mar.  7  Mar.,  1857, 
Oliver  Horton  Locke,  joiner,  of  Portsmouth,  b.  19  July,  1836,  in 
New  Castle;  home,  in  Portsmouth. 

5.  George  William,  b.  23  Jan.,  1840;  mar.  (1st)  Almira  McPher- 
son;   (2nd)   Mrs.  Adelaide  Acorn;   d.  10  Oct.,  1885.     Issue: 

1st.     Henrietta,  mar.  (1st)  Samuel  Rowe;   (2nd) . 

6.  Mary  Rosamond,  b.  21  Nov.,  1841;  mar.  8  July,  1858,  William 
H.  Smart,  of  Portsmouth,  b.  1  Feb.,  1832,  d.  26  Dec,  1893. 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  485 


DIVISION    NO.    18. 


EBENEZER    BRACKETT   OF    DEDHAM    AND    HIS 
DESCENDANTS. 

FOURTH   GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  XI.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer. 

Ebenezer  Brackett  was  born  in  Billerica,  Mass.,  October  19,  1677. 
His  father,  John  Brackett,  removed  to  Billerica  from  Braintree  in  1660 
with  his  brothers  Peter  and  Josiah,  and  his  sisters  Rachel,  Mary  and 
Hannah.  The  town  records  of  Billerica  of  the  year  1660  read  that 
the  town  "accepts"  John  Brackett  et  al  as  inhabitants. 

"Braintree  gave  to  Billerica  an  important  circle  of  eight  families. 
The  mother  of  Simon  Crosby  had  married  some  years  before,  the  Rev. 
Joseph  Tompson  of  Braintree,  his  second  wife.  In  his  parish -Captain 
Richard  Brackett  lived  an  active  and  exemplary  deacon  of  his  church. 
Naturally  enough  the  minister's  son  Joseph,  and  his  step-son  Simon 
Crosby,  found  wives  in  the  deacon's  family,  and  one  Samuel  Kinsley 
was  equally  fortunate.  These  sisters  had  twin  brothers  John  and 
Peter,  and  the  five  brothers  and  sisters  all  came  to  Billerica  and  found 
as  many  homes  here.  John  Brackett  had  another  attraction  here,  as 
his  wife  was  a  daughter  of  William  French."  (Hazen's  Hist,  of 
Billerica.) 

Josiah  Brackett  did  not  remain  long  in  the  town;  he  removed  to 
the  adjoining  town  of  Chelmsford,  perhaps  shortly  before  or  during 
King  Philip's  war,  and  then  had  been  a  resident  of  Billerica  but  a  few 
years.  The  town  records  show  that  he  was  assessed  for  war  tax  after 
he  removed  to  Chelmsford. 

Captain  Richard  Brackett  owned  land,  but  never  resided,  in  the 
town.  He  participated  in  the  divisions  of  land  in  the  town  made  in 
1660,  1665,  and  1685,  in  the  latter  a  share  was  allotted  jointly  to  him 
and  his  son  John. 

John  Brackett's  farm  lay  between  two  brooks;  near  their  con- 
fluence and  a  highway,  stood  his  house  on  the  farm.  The  follow- 
ing is  of  interest  in  this  connection. 

"John  Bracket  requesting  of  the  Town  a  small  skirt  of  Eande 
Lying  between  his  hous  and  the  highway  on  the  East  together  with  a 
small  Angl  of  Eand  Eyinge  acrosse  the  upper  road  way  at  Abot's 
Bridge  and  Simon  Bund's  fence,  according  to  two  trees  already 
marked  by  Jonathan  Danforth  and  so  runninge  to  the  hither  corner 
bounde  mark  of  John  Durants  hous  Eott,  the  Towne  grant  his  request, 
provided  that  John  Bracket  at  his  owne  charge  shall  make  a  good 
and  sufficient  Bridge  over  that  durty  place  (called  Abot's  bridge)  both 
watter  coarse  and  all  the  bad  way  on  each  side  so  far  as  needful  which 
sufficient  way  shall  be  judged  and  accepted  of  by  the  present  survey- 


486  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ors  and  the  work  to  be  done  by  the  said  John  Bracket  by  the  last  of 
the  nexte  month  ensuing  or  else  this  grant  to  be  void." 

The  near  neighbors  of  John  Brackett  at  the  time  of  King  Philip's 
war,  were  Daniel  Shed,  Jr.,  Samuel  Trull  and  James  Kidder,  Jr.  In 
the  several  neighborhoods  of  the  town,  a  house  was  designated  as  a 
garrison  house  which  was  a  dwelling  house  that  was  central  and  suit- 
able for  the  purpose.  John  Brackett  and  the  above-named  neighbors 
were  to  rendezvous  at  the  house  of  Sergeant  Kidder  where  were  sta- 
tioned two  soldiers.  Peter  Brackett  and  his  neighbors  were  to  ren- 
dezvous at  the  house  of  Simon  Crosby.  The  houses  selected  for  gar- 
rison houses  were  strengthened  and  fitted  as  such;  Peter  Brackett 
had  employed  under  him  thirty  men  at  this  task  and  at  work  on  other 
fortifications. 

It  will  be  remembered  that  Captain  Richard  Brackett  by  his  will 
gave  a  one-fourth  part  of  all  of  his  lands,  meadows  "and  housing"  in 
Billerica,  to  the  children  of  his  son  John — "my  meaning  is  the  chil- 
dren he  had  by  his  wife,  Hannah  Brackett."  Why  he  made  the  dis- 
tinction he  did  in  the  children  by  the  two  wives  of  his  son,  is  not 
clear.  By  the  terms  of  the  will  Ebenezer  was  excluded  from  sharing 
in  Captain  Richard  Brackett's  estate.  His  mother,  Ruth  Brackett, 
at  the  time  of  her  marriage  to  his  father,  was  the  widow  of  Joseph 
Ellis — at  the  time  of  his  death  a  resident  of  Billerica, — and  was  the 
mother  of  his  children.  Her  father  was  John  Morse,  of  Dedham. 
He  and  his  father,  Samuel  Morse,  were  among  the  first  settlers  of  that 
town.  She  was  the  oldest  child.  After  dwelling  in  Dedham  for  sev- 
eral years  he  removed  to  Boston  and  engaged  in  tailoring;  after  a 
year  or  two  at  this  business,  about  1655,  he  returned  to  England  and 
carried  with  him  a  considerable  sum,  the  greater  portion  of  his  estate, 
for  investment.  Of  his  intention  of  so  doing  he  mentioned  in  his  will, 
which  was  probated  in  1657.  By  its  terms  his  children  were  to  share 
and  share  alike;  his  daughter  Ruth  to  be  paid  within  one  year  from 
his  decease,  the  others  when  they  reached  the  age  of  twenty-one  years. 
Probably  that  she  had  such  estate  in  her  own  name  at  the  time  of  the 
death  of  her  second  husband,  as  to  make  sufficient  provisions  in  life 
for  her  children,  it  was,  which  prompted  Captain  Richard  to  exclude 
them  from  sharing  in  his  estate,  he  preferring  to  assist  the  children 
by  the  first  wife,  who  were  not  so  well  off  in  this  world's  goods.  All 
the  children  of  John  Brackett  would,  of  course,  share  in  his  estate. 
Whatever  may  have  been  the  prospects  of  Ebenezer  and  her  other 
children  by  her  second  husband,  the  widow  thought  that  she  and  they 
would  be  better  off  among  her  relatives  in  Dedham,  and  to  that  town 
she  took  them.  She  died  in  their  youth,  and  they  found  homes  with 
their  uncles  and  other  relatives.  Her  grandfather,  Samuel,  was  born 
in  1587,  in  Dedham,  Eng.  (wife  was  Elizabeth,  born  in  1587,  died 
in  1654),  and  died  in  Dedham  in  New  England,  in  1654;  he  was 
probably  son  of  Richard  Morse  and  wife,  Margaret  Symson,  of 
Dedham,  Eng. 

Ebenezer  Brackett  continued  a  resident  of  Dedham,  Mass.,  until 
his  death  December  7,  1750;  was  a  farmer;  perhaps  conveyed  his  farm 
to  his  son  Ebenezer.  Married  January  21,  1712,  Abigail  Heale,  who 
died  January  23,  1772;  he  and  his  wife  united  with  the  church  in 
Dedham,  in  February,  1728.     Issue: 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  487 

1.  Abigail,  b.  21  Dec,  1713;  mar.  15  Feb.,  1738,  William  Eaton, 
b.  11  Feb.,  1705,  d.  2  Mar.,  1751,  son  of  William  and  Mary  Starr,  of 
Dedham;  mar.  (2nd)  20  May,  1754,  Stephen  Fales,  b.  in  1682,  son  of 
James  and  Deborah  Fisher;   d.  8  Feb.,  1789,  in  Dedham.     Issue: 

1st.     William,  b.  2  Dec.,  1738;  mar.  Mary ;  children,  Mary, 

who  mar.   Thomas  Gates;    Abigail,    who  mar.    Wetheral;    William; 
Asa;  Joseph;  Jane;  Samuel;   and  John. 

2.  Ebenezer,  b.  6  Mar.,  17 16.     See  family  2. 

3.  Aaron,  b.  14  Oct.,  171 7.     See  family  3. 

4.  Samuel,  b.  3  Sept.,  1724.     See  family  4. 


FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 
From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Ebenezer. 

Ebenezer  Brackett  was  born  in  Dedham,  March  6,  1 715-6;  was  a 
farmer  in  Dedham,  where  he  resided  until  his  death,  May  12,  1792. 
In  June,  1741,  land  was  deeded  to  him  by  his  father.  The  name  of 
his  first  wife  is  unknown;  it  is  thought  that  he  married  (2nd)  Febru- 
ary 13,  1786,  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Thorp,  of  Dedham.  Of  his  children 
nothing  is  known  more  than  that  he  had  three  sons.     Viz: 

1.  Ebenezer.  b.  in  Dedham;  perhaps  mar.  10  July,  1774,  Susannah 
Morse,  both  of  Dedham;  removed  to  Waltham,  Mass.  Served  as  a 
private  in  Capt.  Abraham  Pierce's  co.,  Col.  Samuel  Thatcher's  regi- 
ment; enlisted  4  Mar.,  1776;  dis.  8  Mar.,  1776;  five  days;  company 
called  out  by  Gen.  Washington  at  the  taking  of  Dorchester  heights. 
No  record  as  to  issue. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  in  Dedham;  mar.  in  Needham  30  Oct.,  1777,  Mary 
Greenwood.  Census  of  1790  shows  him  a  resident  of  Needham  with 
a  family  of  five  males  under  the  age  of  sixteen  years  and  two  females. 
No  record  as  to  issue.  Served  in  the  War  of  the  Revolution  in  same 
companies  in  which  Lemuel  served. 

3.  Lemuel,  b.  15  Apr.,  1751.     See  family  5. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 
From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Aaron. 

Aaron  Brackett  was  born  October  14,  171 7,  in  Dedham;  removed 
to  Weston  where  he  resided  until  his  death;  estate  administered  in 
November,  1791;  married  July  30,  1746,  Mariam  Pond;  she  survived 
her  husband.     Issue: 

1.  Aaron,  b.  17  July,  1748,  in  Dedham;  lived  in  Weston,  then  in 
Sturbridge,  Mass.,  where  he  d.;  estate  administered  in  June,  1837. 
Served  as  private  in  Capt.  .John  Putnam's  co.,  Colonel  Wade's 
(Worcester  co.)  regiment;  marched  20  June,  1778,  to  join  Gen. 
Sullivan's  army  at  Providence,  R.  I.;  twenty-one  days'  service. 
Private  in  Capt.  Thomas  Whipple's  co.  of  Guards;  served  seven 
months  and  ten  days  between  20  Apr.,    1780,  and  20  Dec,  1780,  at 

Rutland,  Vt.;  mar whom  he  survived;  had  but  one  child, 

a  dau.,  who  mar.  Kias  Allen. 

2.  Ebenezer.     See  family  6. 


488  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

3.  Miriam,  who  mar.  White. 

4.  Moses,  living  in  Dudley  in  1810,  and  had  children.  Among  his 
children  was  Moses,  Jr.,  whose  wife's  Christian  name  was  Lucinda; 
their  children  were: 

1st.  Elbridge  G.,  b.  19  Feb.,  1818,  in  Woodstock,  Mass. 

2nd.  Reuben,  b.  29  Mar.,  1820,  in  Dudley,  Mass. 

3d.  Sally  M.,  b.  28  Mar.,  1822,  in  Southbridge,  Mass. 

4th.  Merrick,  b.  8  Oct.,  1825,  in  Dudle)^,  Mass. 

5th.  Lydia,  b.  13  Jan.,  1827,  in  Woodstock,  Mass. 

6th.  Chester  S.,  b.  30  Aug.,  1829,  in  Thompson,  Conn. 

FAMILY    NO.    4. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  September  3,  1724,  in  Dedham;  was  a 
farmer  and  owner  of  real  estate:  always  lived  in  Dedham;  died  May 
9,  1794;  married  Elizabeth .     Issue: 

1.  Samuel,  b.  17  Aug.,  1749;  d.  in  infancy. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  4  Apr.,  1751.     See  family  7. 

3.  Ebenezer,  b.  27  Nov.,  1752.     See  family  8. 

4.  David,  b.  12  Mar.,  1755.     See  family  9. 

5.  Mary,  b.  28  Feb.,  1758;  mar.  6  Apr.,  1786,  Isaac  Woodward, 
of  Needham. 

6.  William,  b.  7  May,  1762.     See  family  10. 

7.  John,  b.  17  July,  1764.     See  family  11. 

8.  Solomon,  b.  12  Oct.,  1766.     See  family  12. 


SIXTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Ebenezer, 
Lemuel. 

Lemuel  Brackett  was  born  April  15,  1751,  in  Dedham;  removed 
to  Needham,  Mass.  Was  private  in  Captain  Aaron  Smith's  com- 
pany, Colonel  William  Heath's  regiment,  which  marched  on  the 
alarm  of  April  19,  1775;  service  of  five  days;  private  in  Captain 
Adam  Smith's  (West)  company  of  Needham,  Colonel  Wm.  Mcin- 
tosh's regiment,  served  two  days  at  the  taking  and  fortifying  of  Dor- 
chester heights.  Married  December  15,  1774,  Susannah  Curtis,  born 
March  23,  1756.     He  died  November  16,  1827.     Issue: 

1.  Lemuel,  b.  14  Nov.,  1775.     See  family  12  A. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  27  Sept.,  1777.  in  Needham,  Mass.;  went  to  sea. 

3.  Suky,  b.  15  Apr.,  1780,  in  Holden,  Mass. 

4.  Ebenezer,  b.  25N0V.,  1782;  mar.;   2  children,  Henry  and  Han- 
nah, both  dec. 

5.  Joseph,  b.    18  Sept.,    1784;  d.   7  Feb.,  1867;  mar.;   2  children, 
Horace  and  Abigail,  both  dec. 

6.  Polly,  b.  18  Aug.,  1786. 

7.  Timothy  N.,  b.  12  Apr.,  1789.     See  family  13. 

8.  Hannah,  b.  19  Aug.,  1791;  mar.  Cutting;  d.  27  Apr.,  1868. 

9.  Nancy,  b.  27  Nov.,  1793. 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  489 

10.  Pamelia,  b.  5  Nov.,  1795. 

11.  Silvester,  b.  25  Dec.,  1798;  d.  in  Aug.,  1859;  mar.  His 
children,  were  Gilbert;  Louisa;  Ellen;  Isabel;  Harriet;  Abigail; 
Herbert;   Chandler;   Lewis;  George.     No  further  record. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From  Family  No.  3.     Descent:     Richard,   John,    Ebenezer,  Aaron, 
Ebenezer. 

Ebenezer  Brackett  was  born  in  Dedham;  removed  to  Dudley 
where  he  resided  until  his  death — estate  administered  in  December, 
1812;  was  a  farmer.  Married  Abigail  Robbins  (daughter  of  Ezekiel) 
born  about  1760,  died  March  23,  1855.  Children,  Susan;  Abigail; 
Ebenezer;  Miriam,  who  married  Abijah  Rogers;  David;  Aaron,  born 
about  1802,  died  September  12,  1855;  and  Ichabod,  born  about  1788, 
died  May  24,  1862.  The  mother,  Abigail,  and  the  sons,  Aaron  and 
Ichabod,  in  1850,  and  at  the  time  of  their  deaths,  respectively,  were 
town  paupers  in  Dudley,  the  only  cases  of  pauperism  in  the  family 
known  to  the  writer. 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Ebenezer,   Samuel, 
Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  April  4,  1 75 1 ,  in  Dedham,  where  he 
resided;  was  a  farmer.  It  is  traditional  with  his  descendants  that  he 
was  a  soldier  in  the  Continental  army;  his  service  probably  was  as  a 
private  in  Captain  Isaac  Martin's  company,  Colonel  Ezra  Wood's 
regiment,  marched  to  Rhode  Island  April  17,  1777,  served  twenty- 
three  days;  private  in  Captain  Theophilus  Lyons  company,  enlisted 
March  1,  1778,  discharged  May  13,  1778;  served  thirteen  days  at 
Castle  island  under  command  of  Lieutenant  Samuel  Pierce.  Married 
October  7,  1779,  Sarah  Bullard.  of  Needham,  born  September  6,  1761, 
daughter  of  Moses,  of  Needham,  born  March  9,  1734,  married  Sarah 
Newell,  was  son  of  Benjamin,  of  Weston;  he  married  Elizabeth  Shep- 
hard,  died  November  18,  1740,  was  son  of  George,  the  immigrant; 
he  settled  in  Watertown,  took  the  oath  of  Freeman  in  1641,  died 
January  14,  1689,  at  the  age  of  eighty-one  years;  wife's  name  was 
Beatrice.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Nathaniel,  b.  in  1780.     See  family  14. 

2.  William,  mar.  Nancy  Hancock;  resided  in  Newton  Center, 
Mass.     No  issue. 

3.  George,  b.  1  Feb.,  1784.     See  family  15. 

4.  Rufus,  b.  9  Mar.,  1786.     See  family  16. 

5.  Josiah,  b.  in  1789.     See  family  17. 

6.  Ruby,   never  mar. 

7.  Lucinda,   mar.  Hall;  resided  in  Boston. 

8.  Charles  N.,  b.  in  1796.     See  family  18. 

9.  Newell,   mar.  and  had  a  family. 

10.  Daniel,  b.  9  Aug.,  1801;  d.  unmar. 

11.  Love,  b.  28  June,  1805;  d.  28  May,  1887;  mar.  Gilbert  Rob- 
bins,  b.  2  Jan.,  1812,  d.  29  Apr.,  1886.     Issue: 


490  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.  Rubie  N.,  b.  29  Apr.,  1834;  mar.  Samuel  A.  Brackett. 
Issue  (see  fam.  49,  this  div.). 

2nd.  Henry  G.,  b.  15  June,  1843,  mar.  in  Belfast,  Me.,  3  Jan., 
1879,  Ellen  Forbes,  who  d.  6  June,  1901;  he  d.  29  July,  1885. 

FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Ebenezer. 

Ebenezer  Brackett  was  born  November  27,  1752,  in  Dedham; 
removed  to  Weston,  Mass.,  prior  to  or  about  1775,  where  he  followed 
farming  and  resided  until  his  death;  estate  administered  in  1808. 
Private  in  Captain  Samuel  Lawson's  company  which  marched  on  the 
alarm  of  April  19,  1775;  service  of  three  days.  Private  in  Captain 
Abijah  Child's  company,  Colonel  Thomas  Gardner's  (later  Colonel 
William  Bond's)  regiment,  enlisted  April  29,  1775,  discharged  Sep- 
tember 3,  1775.  Received  order  for  bounty  coat  or  its  equivalent  in 
money,  dated  at  Prospect  Hill,  December  20,  1775.  Married  Novem- 
ber 4,  1779,  Rebecca  Gay,  of  Needham,  born  in  1758,  died  May  2, 
1849.     Issue: 

1.  Lemuel,  b.  19  Aug.,  1780;  probably  mar.  28  Oct.,  1801,  Sally 
Burbank;  in  1815,  had  a  family  of  at  least  three  children  in  Sherborn: 
d.  18  June,  1859.  One  child  was  Susan  Bartlett,  b.  29  Mar.,  1808,  in 
Needham. 

2.  George  Gardner,  b.  4  Feb.,  1782;  probably  d.  before  his 
father  d. 

3.  Rebecca,  b.  20  Oct.,  1783;  was  living  in  1808. 

4.  Lucy,  b.  20  Feb.,  1785;  d.  12  Jan.,  1788. 

5.  Sally  Ann,  b.  10  Nov.,  1786;  mar.  Jonathan  C.  Woodman; 
children,  Sarah  Ann  and  Raymond  H. 

6.  Isaac,  b.  22  Mar.,  1788.     See  family  19. 

7.  Lucy,  b.  15  Nov.,  1789;  d.  young. 

8.  Maria,  b.  12  May,  1791;  never  mar.;  d.  27  Feb.,  1875,  in  Wal- 
tham. 

9.  Martha,  b.  12  May,  1791;  mar.  Seth  Copeland;  children,  names 
not  known. 

10.  Ebenezer,  b.  12  Oct.,  1793;  mar.  Clarissa ;  estate  admin- 
istered in  1830;  had  son  Albert. 

11.  Lucy,  b.  27  Sept.,  1795. 

12.  Lucinda,  b.  14  Oct.,  1797. 

13.  Henry  G.,  b.  19  Apr.,  1799.     See  family  20. 

14.  Elizabeth,  b.   27  Feb.,    1801;  d.   unmar.  in  Weston,   8  Feb., 

1873. 

15.  Charles  Clark,  b.  3  Sept.,  1804;  d.  young. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  4.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
David. 
David  Brackett  was  born  March  12,  1755,  in  Dedham;  removed  to 
Needham,  thence  to  Weston  where  he  resided  until  his  death  Septem- 
ber 13,  182 1 ;  was  a  farmer.  Private  in  Captain  Aaron  Fuller's  com- 
pany of  minute  men  which  marched  on  the  alarm  of  April  19,  1775, 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  491 

from  Dedham,  First  parish;  service  of  two  days.  Private  in  Captain 
Joseph  Ee wis'  (ist  Dedham  company),  Colonel  William  Mcintosh's 
regiment;  marched  to  the  camp  at  Dorchester  on  the  alarm  of  March 
4,  1776;  service  of  four  days.  Private  in  Captain  Abraham  Pierce's 
company,  Colonel  Eleazer  Brooks'  regiment  of  Guards,  service  to 
January  13,  1778,  two  months  and  thirteen  days  at  Cambridge. 
Private  in  Captain  Ebenezer  Battle's  company,  Colonel  William 
Mcintosh's  regiment;  enlisted  March  23,  1778,  discharged  April  9, 
177S;  marched  to  Roxbury  lines.  Private  in  Captain  Caleb  Champ- 
ney's  company,  Major  Nathaniel  Heath's  detachment  of  Guards; 
enlisted  July  14,  1779,  discharged  October  1,  1779;  stationed  at  Bos- 
ton. Married  May  25,  1779,  Mrs.  Susannah  Bird,  of  Dorchester. 
Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  David,  mar.  (ist)  in  1818,  Melinda  Harrington,  who  d. 
Sept.  7,  1821;  (2nd)  intention  published  Mar.  9,  1822,  Eydia  Har- 
rington. 

2.  Betsey,  mar.  6  Jan.,  1818,  Luther  Pierce,  of  Weston. 

.'!.  Sophia,  b.  3  Oct.,  1791;  mar.  in  1820,  Martin  Bacon,  of  Weston. 

4.  Harriet,  d.  29  Sept.,  1793. 

5.  Nancy. 

6.  Susannah. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 
From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William. 

William  Brackett  was  born  May  7,  1762,  in  Dedham;  removed  to 
Sudbury,  Mass.;  was  a  farmer;  died  September  18,  1835;  married 
November  22,  1784,  Anna  Eauchlen,  born  December  26,  1765,  bap- 
tized February  2,  1766,  in  Dedham,  died  December  23,  1844,  daugh- 
ter of  Samuel  and  wife,  Sarah  Hawes,  of  Dedham.     Issue: 

1.  William,  b.  9  Oct.,  1785.     See  family  21. 

2.  Sally,  b.  6  Sept.,  1787;  mar.  13  Dec,  1807,  Charles  White; 
d.  13  Jan.,  1869;  children,  Charles;  Eucy  D.;  Sally  B.;  Anna  C; 
Mary  J.;   Nancy. 

3.  Cephas,  b.  21  Sept.,  1789.     See  family  22. 

4.  Nancy,  b.  23  Dec,  1792;  mar.  30  Apr.,  1809,  Elijah  White. 

5.  Mary,  b.  25  July,  1795,  in  East  Sudbury;  d.  22  Oct.,  1866; 
mar.  24  Apr.,  1817,  Henry  Baldwin,  wholesale  grocer  in  Boston, 
where  they  resided,  b.  21  Aug.,  1790,  d.  18  Apr.,  1833,  son  of  Thad- 
deus  and  wife,  Abigail  Rice,  of  Phillipston,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.  Mary  Ann,  b.  23  Nov.,  1818;  d.  7  Jan.,  1895;  mar.  (ist) 
Dr.  Charles  Dana  Douse,  who  d.  23  Nov.,  i860;  mar.  (2nd)  Thomas 
R.  Fairbanks  who  d.  9  Mar.,  1873;  children,  Henry  Dana;  Charles 
Francis;  William  Baldwin. 

2nd.  Abigail  Eliza,  b.  15  Apr.,  1821;  d.  17  May,  1899;  mar. 
Josiah  Rutter,  attorney,  who  d.  31  Sept.,  1876;  children,  William 
Baldwin,  who  d.  24  Nov.,  1888;  Frederick  Plympton;  Frank  J.; 
Nathaniel  Plympton. 

3d.     William  Henry,  b.  20  July,  1823;  d.  30  June,  1825. 

4th.  William  Henry,  b.  20  Oct.,  1826;  mar.  17  June,  1751, 
Mary  F.  A.  Caffee,  b.  15  May,  1830,  d.  9  Jan.,  1892,  dau.  of 
Jonathan  and  wife,  Nancy  Aldrich,  of  Boston;  children,  Mary  Chaffee, 
who  mar.  Herbert  Nash;   Maria  J.,  who  mar.  Franklin  P.  Simonds; 


492  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Harry  H.,  who  mar.  Susan  Frances  Haley;  Frank  Fenno,  who  mar. 
Lucy  C.  Nash;  Fanny  A.,  who  mar.  Rev.  Chas.  T.  Billings;  William 
Henry,  Jr.,  who  mar.  Ruth  S.  Bolles;  George  S.,  who  mar.  Nellie  S. 
Todd;  Robert  Collyer,  b.  26  May,  1868;  Richard  Brackett,  who  mar. 
Louise  B.  McKenzie. 

5th.     Sewell  Augustus,  b.  15  Oct.,  1828;  d.  7  Oct.,  1830. 

6.  Aaron,  b.  12  Aug.,  1797;  mar.  4  Mar.,  1824,  Mary  Hews,  b.  8 
Nov.,  1802,  d.  7  May,  1875,  dau.  of  Abram,  of  Weston,  Mass. 
Resided  in  Littleton,  N.  H.,  from  1820;  representative  in  state  legis- 
lature in  1840-2;  brigade  quartermaster,  6th  brigade,  2nd  division, 
N.  H.  militia;  town  clerk  in  1827-8,  1852  to  1858;  merchant;  d.  11 
Jan.,  1868.     Issue: 

1st.     Martha  A.,  b.  4  Nov.,    1825;  mar.  31   Mar.,    1847,   Dr.  J. 
Smith  Ross,  who  d.  in  Nov.,  1877,  in  Great  Falls,  N.  H.;  resides  in 
Somersworth,  N.  H.     Issue: 
I.     Winfred  L. 

2nd.     George  H.,  b.  3  Mar.,  1832;  d.  29  Sept.,  1832. 

3d.  Susan  Hews,  b.  4  Sept.,  1839;  mar.  21  Jan.,  1868,  Allen 
Jacob  Church,  b.  2  Apr.,  1840,  son  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Lucinda  Fitch, 
of  Waterford,  Yt.,  is  a  glover;  resided  in  Littleton  from  1866. 

7.  Sewall,  b.  19  Oct.,  1799.     See  family  23. 

8.  Samuel  G.,  b.  10  Sept.,  1802.     See  family  24. 

9.  Allen,  b.  16  Mar.,  1805;  mar.  Rebecca  Rice,  b.  20  Nov.,  1809; 
he  d.  21  Sept.,  1840.     Issue: 

1st.     Mary  A.,  b.  in  1829. 
2nd.     Francis,  b.  13  Jan.,  1831. 

10.  Horace,  b.  25  Jan.,  1807;  mar.  Ann  Learned;  d.  29  Aug., 
1847.     Issue: 

1st.     Emma,  who  mar.  Blanchard. 
2nd.     Henry.     No  further  record. 

11.  Sally  W.,  b.  7  Aug.,  1809;  mar.  Joel  Damon;  is  dec.  No 
issue. 

FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  July  17,  1764,  in  Dedham;  when  a  young 
man  he  removed  to  Weston  and  was  living  in  that  town  at  the  time  of 
his  marriage  (intention  published  March  22,  1788)  to  Abigail  Tilton, 
of  East  Sudbury  (now  Wayland).  For  a  time  they  lived  in  East 
Sudbury;  removed  to  Cambridge  where  they  resided  for  many  years. 
She  was  born  in  1770,  was  living  in  1850,  daughter  of  Captain  John 
and  wife,  Mary.     Issue: 

1.  Elizabeth,  who  d.  3'oung. 

2.  Jerusba,  b.  about  1790;  living  in  1850;  d.  before  1865;  mar. 
George  King,  b.  about  1790;  resided  in  Cambridge;  children,  George 
S.,  b.  about  181 1 ;  Almaette,  b.  about  1827;  Theodore  E.,  b.  about 
1829. 

3.  Cyrus. 

4.  Joseph,  who  d.  about  1848;  mar.  Eliza  W. ;  livingin  1888; 

resided  in  Cambridge.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth,   all  d.  unmar.: 

1st.     Eliza  A.,  who  d.  4  Feb.,  1888. 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  493 

2nd.     William  Henry,  who  d.  22  Oct.,  1893. 
3d.     Mary  Elizabeth,  who  d.  about  1899. 
4th.     Charles  Willard,  who  d.  9  July,  1899. 
5th.     Ann  Maria,  who  d.  23  Mar.,  1901. 

5.  Samuel,  b.  in  1795;  d.  young. 

6.  Mary. 

7.  Samuel,  b.  in  1800.     See  family  25. 

8.  Reuben. 

9.  Josiah.     See  family  26. 

10.  Abigail  Lucretia,  b.  about  1811;  never  mar.;  d.  in  Cambridge, 
Sept.,  1865. 

11.  Charles  W.     No  further  record. 


FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Solomon. 

Solomon  Brackett  was  born  October  12,  1766,  in  Dedham; 
removed  to  West  Needham;  died  August  19,  1842.  Subsequently  to 
the  War  of  the  Revolution  he  was  a  member  of  a  militia  company  in 
West  Needham,  in  which  Ephraim  Bullard  was  lieutenant.  Was 
short  in  stature,  somewhat  stout,  with  regular  features;  in  his  old  age 
his  hair  was  white;  he  wore  no  beard.  Removed  from  West  Need- 
ham to  Natick,  thence,  about  1800,  to  Framingham,  Mass.  For  a 
time  was  a  blacksmith  and  then  a  baker;  was  widely  known  for  the 
excellence  of  his  cakes  and  gingerbread.  Married  Lydia  Parkhurst. 
Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Ruby,  b.  about  1795;  never  mar.;  d.  about  1876. 

2.  Josiah  P.,  b.  16  June,  1797.     See  family  27. 
.'!.      Tapley. 

4.     Amos,  b.  about  1804.     See  family  28. 

.">.  Eliza,  mar.  Samuel  Cutting;  children,  Lydia,  who  mar.  Enoch 
Childs;  Harvey,  who  mar.  Lucretia  Mclntyre;  Luther,  who  mar. 
Mary  Thompson;  Samuel  Wesley,  who  mar.  Bessie  Bowdon;  Alvar- 
ius  I;  Sanford  M.,  who  mar.  Cora  Barrett;  Anna  R.  T.,  who  mar. 
Cutting. 

6.  Mary  Woodward,  mar.  Gilbert  Childs;  child,  D.  Kellogg,  who 
mar.  Eliza  Hemenway. 

7.  David  Kellogg;   never  mar. 

8.  Eydia  Kingsbury,  b.  21  May,  1816;  mar.  20  June,  1836, 
Elbridge  G.  Eaton,  carpenter,  b.  28  Sept.,  1811,  d.  29  Jan.,  1873, 
son  of  Abel  and  wife,  Sally  Hemenway,  of  Framingham.  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.  Susan  A.,  b.  15  Jan.,  1842;  mar.  (1st)  20  Nov.,  1861, 
George  H.  Williams,  who  was  killed  May  25,  1864;  mar.  (2nd)  David 
Lowell. 

2nd.  Mary  E.,  b.  19  Jan.,  1850;  mar.  28  Sept.,  1871,  Josiah  S. 
Williams;  reside  in  Nobscot,  Mass.;  children,  Bertha  L.;  Carlton  H.; 
Gladys  I.;   Harold  G.;   Lawrence  L.;   Meredith  G. 

9.  William,   mar.  Mary  P.  Smith.     Issue: 

1st.  Ellen  Lucretia,  mar.  Reuben  W.  Bacon;  children,  Elsie; 
Eldora;   Ernest. 

2nd.  Frank  Arthur,  mar.  Anna  M.  Stone.  Issue:  Dr.  Arthur; 
Dr.  Wallace;   Mary;  and  two  others. 


494  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    12  A. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Richard,  John.  Ebenezer,  Ebenezer, 
Lemuel,  Lemuel. 

Lemuel  Brackett  was  born  November  14,  1775,  in  Needham, 
Mass.;  was  an  overseer  in  cotton  mills  in  Newton  and  Watertown, 
Mass.;  married  February  24,  1807,  in  Boston,  Anna  Coolidge.     Issue: 

1.  Curtis,  left  home  and  never  heard  from;   estate  administered 
11  June,  1842,  in  Roxbury. 

2.  Richard,  d.  young. 

3.  De  Witt  C.  b.  9  Oct.,  1812.     See  family  29. 

4.  Lemuel,  d.  while  a  young  man. 

5.  Frank,  d.  while  a  young  man. 

6.  Susan,  mar.  Joseph  Hawes,  of  Wayland,  Mass. 

7.  Anne,  mar.  Joseph  Tufts. 

8.  Mary,  mar.  (1st)  Throope  Wetherell,  of  Taunton,  Mass.;   (2nd) 
Nichols. 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From  Family  No.  5.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Ebenezer, 
Lemuel,  Timothy  N. 

Timothy  Nichols  Brackett  was  born  April  12,  1789,  in  Weston, 
Mass.  Married  (1st)  February  17,  1818,  Charlotte  Shepardson,  born 
October  10,  1795.  died  December  13,  1832.  Married  (2nd)  June  23, 
1833,  Elvira  Dickinson,  born  October  26,  1812,  died  February  11, 
1896,  daughter  of  Asker  Dickinson  and  wife,  Anna  Putnam,  of  Guil- 
ford, Vt.  By  trade  was  a  paper-maker;  resided  in  Guilford,  Vt. 
Died  October  22,  1859.     Issue: 

1.  Francis  Stedman,  b.  6  Dec,  1818;  mar.  Sophronia  F.  Hale;  d. 
22  Dec,  1878.     Issue: 

1st.     Mary  Abby,  b.  6  Sept.,  1850;   d.  13  July,  1875. 

2.  Hart  Shepardson,  b.  27  July,  1822;  d.  11  Feb.,  1823. 

3.  Timothy  Hart,  b.  20  Apr.,  1825;  d.  25  Jan.,  1826. 

4.  Polly  C,   b.   31   Dec,    1826;  mar.    1    Mar.,    1846.   Charles   H. 
Denison;    children,  Charles  F.;   William  C;   Mary  I.,  who  d.  young. 

5.  Gratia  F.,  b.  26  Apr.,  1829;  d.  7  June,  1832. 
0.     Dana  Fitch,  b.  3  Sept.,  1834.     See  family  30. 

7.  Fredric  N.,  b.  6  Oct.,  1835.     See  family  31. 

8.  George   Fletcher,   b.    3  July,    1837;  mar.    Martha    Robertson; 
resides  in  Green  River,  Vt.     Issue: 

1st.     Jennie  L-,   mar.  Stanley;  resides  in  Gardner,  Mass. 
2nd.     Nellie  I.,  mar.  Higby;  resides  in  Guilford,  Vt. 
3d.     Herbert  W.,   resides  in  Wilmington,  Vt. 
4th.     Alonzo  J.,  resides  in  Brattleboro,  Vt. 
5th.     Mary  A.,  resides  in  Green  River,  Vt. 

9.  Charles  Fayette,  b.  25  Nov.,  1841;  mar.  Cinda  Clark;  resides 
in  Green  River,  Vt.     No  issue. 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  495 

FAMILY   NO.    14. 
From  Family  No.   7.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Kbenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Nathaniel. 

Nathaniel  Brackett  was  born  in  1780,  in  Dedham;  resided  in 
Newton,  Mass.,  where  he  was  a  farmer  and  a  dealer  in  provisions;  at 
one  time  was  colonel  in  Massachusetts  militia  and  was  known  as 
Colonel  Brackett;  married  Mary  Monroe,  born  about  1803.  He  died 
in  1862.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Gilman,  b.  5  Dec,  1816.     See  family  32. 

2.  George,  d.  when  a  young  man  and  unmar. 

3.  Mary,  d.  when  a  young  lady  and  unmar. 

4.  Eliza,  mar.  Jacob  Abbott;  no  issue  or  descendants  living. 

5.  Nathaniel,  b.  about  1822.     See  family  33. 

FAMILY    NO.    15. 
From  Family  No.   7.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Ebenezer,   Samuel, 
Samuel,  George. 

George  Brackett  was  born  February  1,  1784,  in  Dedham,  Mass.; 
was  one  of  the  pioneer  manufacturers  of  morocco  in  Lynn,  Mass., 
and  one  of  the  organizers  of  the  Unitarian  Congregational  church  in 
Lynn;  died  June  15,  1848.  Married  June  5,  1809,  Elinor  Humphries 
who  died  September  19,  1857.     Issue: 

1.  Elinor  H.,  b.  16  Mar.,  1810;  mar.  3  July,  1850,  Hermon  T. 
Hatch;   d.  7  Mar.,  1894.     No  issue: 

2.  George  Philip,  b.  18  Mar.,  1812;  a  morocco  finisher;  resided 
in  Lynn;  d.  31  Dec,  1853;  mar.  Lucy .     Issue: 

1st.     George  M.,  b.  30  Jan.,  1836.     See  family  55. 

2nd.     Lucy  P.,  b.  25  June,  1838;  resides  in  Ipswich,  Mass. 

3.  Edwin,  b.  17  Jan.,  1814.     See  family  34. 

4.  Hermon,  b.  8  Nov.,    1816,  mar.  ;  resided  in  Lynn;  d.   8 

Sept.,  1880;  children,  Charles  H.;  George;  Sumner;  all  of  whom  reside 
in  Lynn. 

5.  William  F.,  b.  1  Dec,  1818;  d.  2  Oct.,  1819. 

6.  William  Francis,  b.  15  July,  1820;  resided  in  Lynn;  mar. 
Susan  Wardell  Harris,  who  d.  20  Apr.,  1891.  He  d.  23  Jan.,  1882. 
Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1st.  William  F.,  b.  9  Oct.,  1844;  mar.  25  Nov.,  1880,  Calesta 
G.  Parcher  of  Waterbury,  Vt.;  resided  in  Lynn;  d.  13  July,  1901. 
No  issue. 

2nd.     Fred  C,  who  is  dec. 

3d.     Harry  W. 

4th.     Georgianna  H.,  who  mar.  L.  Willis  Shepard,  of  Lynn. 

5th.     Susan,  who  mar.  W.  L.  Adams,  of  Lynn. 

7.  Samuel,  b.  27  Mar.,  1822.     See  family  35. 

8.  Mary  Jane,  b.  15  Sept.,  1823;  mar.  Charles  Shorey;  resides  in 
New  York  city.     No  issue  living. 

9.  Sarah  Ann.  b.  8  July,  1825;  mar.  Jesse  Rhodes;  d.  17  Sept., 
1901;   children,  Herbert  Brackett;  Howard;  Jesse;  and  others. 

10.  John  Humphries,   b.  10  June,  1827;  d.  30  Mar.,  1831. 

11.  Caroline  Eliza,  b.  20  June,  1829;  resides  in  Lynn,  Mass. 


496  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    16. 

From  Family  No.  7.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Rufus. 
Rufus  Brackett  was  born  March  9,  1786,  in  Dedham;  died  July 
31,  1848;  resided  in  or  near  Boston.  Married  (1st)  July  6,  181 1, 
Mary  Morris  Goldthwaite,  who  died  early  in  life,  was  daughter  of 
John;  he  was  born  perhaps  in  Maiden  about  1768,  died  September  8, 
1840,  married  Sally  Morris,  born  in  1770,  died  July  16,  1806,  was  son 
of  Benjamin;  he  was  of  Maiden  and  Boston,  born  in  1743,  died  in 
Maiden  July  26,  1835,  a  heel-maker,  was  one  of  the  volunteers  from 
Lynn,  Mass.,  on  the  alarm  of  April  19,  1775,  married  May  3,  1767, 
Lois  Boardman  (born  in  Lynn  August  13,  1747,  daughter  of  John  and 
Eunice  Cheever,  died  October  12,  1812),  was  son  of  Major  Benjamin; 
he  was  of  Boston,  was  born  there  November  25,  1704,  died  May  10, 
1 76 1.  a  soldier  in  the  French  and  Indian  wars,  married  Charity 
Edwards,  who  died  before  1730,  was  son  of  Captain  John;  he  was  in 
1677  in  Salem,  died  June  25,  1766,  married  Sarah  Hopkins,  daugh- 
ter of  Charles  and  wife,  Margaret  Henchman,  who  died  in  1715,  was 
son  of  Samuel;  he  was  born  in  Salem,  baptized  August  20,  1637,  died 
about  1 718,  a  cooper,  married  Elizabeth  Cheever,  died  in  old  age, 
daughter  of  Ezekiel  (son  of  William  and  wife,  Margaret)  and  wife 
Mary,  was  son  of  Thomas;  he  was  the  immigrant,  born  1810  in  Eng- 
land, died  about  1683,  lived  in  Salem  where  he  married  about  1636. 
Rufus  Brackett  married  (2nd)  June  30,  1818,  Mary  Ann  Dudley,  born 
July  25.  1796,  died  April  9,  1877.     Issue: 

1.  Henry,  b.  16  June,  1812.     See  family  36. 

2.  Mary  Ann,  b.  7  Apr.,  1819;  d.  30  Oct.,  1871. 

3.  Eliza  Dadley,  b.  23  Aug.,  1820;  d.  22  Sept.,  1821. 

4.  James  Dadley,  born  25  Nov.,  1822;  a  wool  merchant;  resided 
in  Brookline,  Roxbury,  Winter  Hill,  and  Faulkner,  Mass.;  d.  30  June, 
1887;  mar.  30  June,  1859,  Amanda  Melvina  Kimball,  b.  3  June,  1834, 
dau.  of  Hervey  Zeury  Kimball  and  wife,  Lucy  D.  Stickney,  of 
Charlestown,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Rufus,  b.  28  May,  i860,  in  Brookline,  Mass.;  residence,  1 
Judson  square,  Maiden. 

5.  Rufus,  b.  15  Dec,  1824.     See  family  37. 

6.  Isaiah  W.  P.  L.,  b.  25  Nov.,  1828.     See  family  38. 

7.  Harriet  Ann  Townsend  Lewis,  b.  twin  with  Isaiah  W.  P.  L.; 
mar.  8  Sept.,  1856,  Alfred  Stebbins,  b.  20  Sept.,  1825,  d.  8  May, 
1903,  son  of  William  and  wife,  Bridget  E.  Jordan,  of  New  York; 
resided  in  Boston  and  New  York.     Issue: 

1st.     Alfred,  b.  6  Jan.,  1858;  is  unmar.;  residence,  Newtonville, 
Mass. 

8.  Frances  Eliza,  b.  12  Apr.,  1S31;   d.  15  July,  1854. 

9.  Anna  Maria,  b.  18  Feb.,  1833. 

FAMILY    NO.   17. 

From  Family  No.   7.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Ebenezer,   Samuel, 
Samuel,  Josiah. 
Josiah  Brackett  was  born  in   1789,  in  Dedham;   was  a  minister  of 
the  M.  E.  church;  later  a  dealer  in  leather;  married  in  18 19,  Eliza  B. 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  497 

Dadley,  born  in  1802,  died  in  1890,  daughter  of  Lemuel  Cox  Dadley 
and  wife,  Eliza  Cox,  of  Charlestown,  Mass.;  he  died  in  1873.  Issue, 
not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Mary  Ann,  d.  in  infancy. 

2.  Eliza  B.,  mar.  Dr.  M.  K.  Mayo,  dentist. 

3.  Sarah,  d.  in  infancy. 

4.  Susannah,  b.  in  1828;  mar.  A.  R.  Fox. 

5.  Love  L,.,  b.  in  1830;  mar.  Israel  Adams. 

G.  Josiah  Newell,  b.  1832;  unmar.;  was  a  soldier  in  the  Union 
army  during  the  civil  war. 

7.  John  L.,  b.  in  1834;  d.  in  1869. 

8.  Sarah  Bullard,  b.  in  1836;  mar.  A.  P.  Lovejoy;  d.  in  1876. 

9.  Caroline  Augusta,  b.  in  1838. 

10.  John  Quincy  Adams,  b.  in  1836,  in  Charlestown,  Mass.; 
resides  in  Woburn;  is  a  dealer  in  leather;  mar.  (1st)  Anna  Baxter 
who  is  dec;  (2nd)  Abbie  Wentworth  who  is  dec;  (3d)  Abbie  Steele. 
Issue: 

By  wife  Anna  Baxter: 
1st.     Harry  B.,  b.  in  1865. 

2nd.  Edward  Q.,  b.  in  1867;  mar.  Edna  Davis;  has  son  Philip 
L.,  b.  in  1895. 

3d.     George,  who  is  dec. 

By  wife  Abbie  Steele: 

4th.     Quincy  A.,  b.  in  1885. 

FAMILY   NO.   18. 

From  Family  No.   7.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Charles  N. 

Charles  N.  Brackett  was  born  in  1796,  in  Dedham;  married  in 
1825,  Eucy  Gay,  born  in  1801,  died  in  1893;  he  died  in  1879.  Issue, 
not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Charles  Newell,  b.  1  Feb.,  1826.     See  family  39. 

2.  Georgiana,  b.  5  Feb.,  1828;  d.  9  Aug.,  1878;  mar.  1  Nov., 
1853,  Harvey  James.     Issue: 

1st.     Dau.,  who  d.  in  infancy. 

2nd.  Georgianna  Helen,  b.  25  Jan.,  1856,  in  Newton;  mar.  in 
1893,  Rev.  Mr.  Manuel  Marin;  d.  14  Apr.,  1901.     Issue: 

I.     Helen  Georgianna,  b.  10  Sept.,  1894,  in  Barcelona,  Spain. 

3.  Gilbert  R.,  b.  9  July,  1833.     See  family  40. 

4.  Theodore  Lyman,  b.  23  Oct.,  1829;  mar.  30  Oct.,  1861,  Eliza 
A.  Heywood;  served  in  1st  Mass.  vol.  cav.;  d.  26  Dec,  1863,  at 
Warrenton,  Va.     No  issue. 

5.  Henry,  b.  30  Sept.,  1831.     See  family  41. 

6.  A.  Caroline,  b.  8  Aug.,  1835;  mar.  18  Nov.,  1886,  E.  Henry 
Greenwood;  resides  in  Newton.     No  issue. 

7.  Mary  E.,  b.  13  Apr.,  1837,  in  Newton,  Mass.;  d.  1  Dec,  1893; 
mar.  25  Jan.,  i860,  Charles  B.  Lancaster,  b.  7  Jan.,  1837;  home,  in 
Newton.     Issue: 

1st.  Helen  Lancaster,  b.  8  Apr.,  1861;  mar.  12  Jan.,  1881, 
Charles  Peter  Clark,  b.  12  Sept.,  1858,  son  of  Charles  Peter  and  wife, 
Caroline  Tyler;  home,  in  Newton  Center,  Mass.;  children,  Lancaster 
P.,  b.  22  Dec,  1882;  Edward  L.,  b.  29  Mar.,  1884;  Tyler,  b.  1  Mar., 
1891;  Priscilla  and  Elizabeth,  b.  20  Jan.,  1900. 


498  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2nd.  Walter  Brackett,  b.  u  May,  1863;  is  a  physician  in  Bos- 
ton; mar.  Emma  Winter;  child,  Julia  E.,  b.  31  Mar.,  1896. 

3d.  Alice  L.,  b.  15  July,  1866;  mar.  Dr.  William  B.  Coley; 
home,  in  New  York  city;  children,  Bradley  L-,  b.  23  Dec,  1893; 
Malcolm,  b.  29  Nov.,  1896;  d.  23  Sept.,  1901. 

4th.  Mabel  L,.,  b.  20  Jan.,  1868;  mar.  Sidney  Harwood;  home, 
in  Newton,  Mass.;  children,  Gretchen,  b.  4  May,  1891,  Bartlett,  b.  1 
Feb.,  1893;   Rosalind,  b.  3  Nov.,  1896. 

5th.     Elizabeth  L.,  b.  21  Sept.,  1869. 

8.  George  F.,  b.  11  Apr.,  1839.     See  family  42. 

9.  Maria  Louise,  b.  4  Mar.,  1841. 

FAMILY   NO.    19. 

From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,   Samuel, 
Ebenezer,  Isaac. 

Isaac  Brackett  was  born  March  22,  1788,  in  Weston,  Mass., 
where  he  followed  farming;  was  pound-keeper  for  many  years,  held 
several  minor  town  offices  and  was  selectman  in  1823-4-5-6;  married 
(intention  published  December  13,  181 7),  Keziah  Webber  Main,  of 
Cambridge;  resided  in  Cambridge  in  1850;  died  in  Weston  December 
27,  1858.     Issue: 

1.  Martha,  b.  29  Apr.,  1819. 

2.  Emeline,  b.  n  Feb.,  1821;  d.  in  Weston,  5  Dec,  1843. 

3.  Mariam,  b.  21  Apr.,  1823;  d.  30  July,  1872,  in  Weston. 

4.  Keziah  Eliza,  b.  23  Mar.,  1825;  d.   14  Nov.,  1882,  in  Weston. 

5.  Isaac  Franklin,  b.  11  Apr.,  1832;  d.  in  1889. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From  Family  No.   8.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Ebenezer,  Henry  G. 

Henry  Gay  Brackett  was  born  April  19,  1799,  in  Weston;  name 
changed  from  Michael  to  Henry,  in  1^38;  was  a  shoemaker;  removed 
to  Boston,  thence  to  Waltham,  Mass.,  where  he  died  November  23, 
1878;  married  April  16,  1828,  Elizabeth  Goodhue,  born  April  3,  181 1, 
died  June  20,  1880,  daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Blunt,  of 
Newburyport,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  Maria  Augusta,  b.  20  July,  1830;  mar.  Otis  Cobb;  home,  in 
Bradford,  Mass.     No  issue. 

2.  Charles  Augustus,  b.  7  Feb.,  1832;  is  a  manufacturer  of  paper 
boxes  at  Newtonville,  Mass.;  has  resided  in  Weston,  Waltham,  Bos- 
ton and  West  Newton,  Mass.,  in  the  order  named;  mar.  27  June,  1855, 
Sophia  R.  Whitney,  b.  25  May,  1835,  d.  25  Nov.,  1893,  dau.  of 
Nathan  and  wife,  Lydia  Viles,  of  Lincoln  and  Waltham.     Issue: 

1st.     Ellen  Louisa,  b.  12  Mar.,  1857. 

2nd.  Mabel  Maria,  b.  25  Nov.,  1859;  mar.  7*Dec,  1887,  Chas. 
M.  Stephen;  home,  in  Newtonville. 

3.  Sarah  Elizabeth,  b.  10  Dec,  1840;  mar.  Albert  F.  Arnold; 
home,  in  Providence,  R.  I. 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  499 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 
From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 

William,  William. 

■ 

William  Brackett  was  born  October  9,  1785,  in  Sudbury,  Mass.; 
removed  to  Littleton,  N.  H.,  in  1799,  where  he  continued  to  reside 
until  his  death  December  7,  1859;  was  a  merchant;  member  of  the 
Congregational  church;  in  politics,  a  Federalist  until  Jackson 
became  president;  town  clerk  from  1814  to  1826,  selectman  in  1817, 
and  representative  in  legislature  in  1819-20.  Married  February  10, 
181 1,  Loraine  Campbell,  born  June  12,  1791,  died  May  11,  1874, 
daughter  of  Hector  Campbell,  of  Chester,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  William  C,  b.  1  Oct.,  1812.     See  family  43. 

2.  Cephas,  b.  20  Jan.,  18 16;  never  mar.;  always  lived  in  Little- 
ton; was  brigade  quartermaster  in  6th  brigade,  2nd  div.  N.  H.  mili- 
tia; first  lieutenant  in  Governor's  guards,  Fourth  company,  appointed 
in  1S36;  was  stage-line  proprietor,  a  successful  business  man;  acquired 
a  very  comfortable  fortune  which  he  possessed  at  the  time  of  his  death, 
3  May,  1899. 

3.  Laura,  b.  11  Jan.,  1819;  mar.  in  1843,  Dr.  Timothy  Haynes,  b. 
5  Sept.,  1808,  d.  28  June,  1883;  son  of  David  and  wife,  Rebecca 
Bailey;  resided  in  Concord,  N.  H.,  where  she  d.  2  Mar.,  1887.  Issue: 
Alice  R.,  b.  25  Jan.,  1844,  who  mar.  Win.  H.  Stevens;  home,  in 
Boston;  William  B.  who  is  dec;  Nellie  S.  and  Elizabeth  B.  who 
reside  in  Boston;   Charles  G.,  d.  young. 

4.  Charles  W.,  b.  8  June,  1822.     See  family  44. 

5.  George  S.,  b.  29  May,  1828;  d.  19  June,  1828. 

6.  Caroline  Adelia,  b.  4  Nov.,  1831;  is  dec;  mar.  11  Oct.,  1855, 
Henry  Lowell  Tilton,  merchant  and  banker  in  Littleton,  b.  3  May, 
1828,  in  Danville,  Vt.,  son  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Sally  Tilton  (second 
cousins)  of  Danville,  Vt.,  and  Littleton,  was  presidential  elector  in 
1880.     Issue: 

1st.     Laura  Isabella,  b.  6  Sept.,  1858;  d.  28  Feb.,  1876. 

2nd.     George  Henry,  b.  3  Nov.,  i860;  mar.  7  June,   1883,  Cora 
W.  Frye,  b.   15  Apr.,    i860,  in  Waterford,  Vt.,  dau.  of  Joseph  S.; 
resides  in  Littleton;  business  is  real  estate.     Issue: 
I.     George  Henry,  b.  29  Mar.,  1891. 

FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Cephas. 

Cephas  Brackett  was  born  September  21,  1789,  in  Littleton;  mar- 
ried April  11,  1 816,  Lucy  Livermore,  born  September  29,  1792;  died 
January  20,  1867;  he  died  June  6,  1863.     Issue: 

1.  Lucy,  b.  24  Apr.,  1817;  d.  18  Oct.,  1824. 

2.  Martha  Ann,  b.  14  Dec,  1819;  mar.  George  W.  Douse. 

3.  Mary  L.,  b.  2  Mar.,  1823;  mar.  Benjamin  H.  Cook,  of  Hyde 
Park. 

4.  Cephas  H.,  b.  19  Jan.,  1826.     See  family  45. 

5.  Albert,  b.  20  Apr.,  1828.     See  family  46. 


500  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Sewall. 

Sewall  Brackett  was  born  October  19,  1799,  in  Sudbury,  Mass.; 
resided  in  Waterford,  Vt.,  in  Littleton,  N.  H.,  from  1832  to  1844; 
died  April  2,  1877;  married  August  4,  1825,  Elvira  Bonney,  born  in 
Littleton,  March  14,  1805.     Issue: 

1.  William  Henry,  b.  6  June,  1826;  d.  18  Sept.,  1826. 

2.  William  H.,  b.  8  July,  1827.     See  family  47. 

3.  Sewall  B.,  b.  15  Jan.,  1829.     See  family  48. 

4.  Franklin  B.     See  family  49. 

5.  Dean  Conant,  killed  in  1847,  while  coasting. 

6.  Mary  Ann,  b.  in  Littleton;  resides  in  Boston. 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Samuel  G. 

Samuel  G.  Brackett  was  born  September  10,  1802,  in  Sudbury, 
Mass.;  was  a  merchant;  resided  in  Barnet  and  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt., 
and  in  other  places;  died  December  14,  1859.  Married  January  1, 
1827,  Amanda  Fairbanks,  born  March  8,  1803,  in  Plymouth,  N.  H., 
died  March  19,  1862,  in  Waltham,  Mass.,  daughter  of  Rev.  Mr.  Drury 
Fairbanks,  of  Littleton.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  A.  A.,  b.  30  Jan.,  1828;  d.  22  Aug.,  1868,  in  Cohasset, 
Mass.;  mar.  17  Feb.,  1853,  Dr.  Fayette  Jewett,  b.  1  Aug.,  1824,  in 
Newbury,  Vt.,  son  of  Calvin  and  wife,  Sally  Parker,  graduate  of 
University  of  Vermont,  in  1848,  and  of  Bowdoin  college  in  1850,  went 
to  Asiatic  Turkey  as  a  medical  missionary,  died  in  Liverpool,  Eng., 
31  May,  1862,  from  strangulation  owing  to  a  peculiar  condition  of, 
or  growth  in,  the  stomach;  only  one  case  was  at  the  time  known  in 
Europe.     Issue: 

1st.  Mary  Amelia,  b.  16  July,  1854,  in  Marsovan,  Asia  Minor; 
d.  26  July,  1854. 

2nd.  Henry  Martyn,  b.  8  July,  1855,  in  Focet,  Asia  Minor;  U. 
S.  consul  at  Sivas,  Asia  Minor,  from  1886  to  1892;  resides  in  Maiden, 
Mass. 

3d.  Milo  Augustus,  b.  27  Oct.,  1857,  in  Sivas,  Asia  Minor, 
where  for  several  years  since  1892,  he  was  U.  S.  consul;  mar.  4 
Sept.,  1897,  Fanny  Powers  Dudley. 

4th.  Susie  Sophia,  b.  2  Aug.,  i860,  in  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.;  d. 
22  Aug.,  i860. 

2.  Samuel  A.,  b.  19  Dec,  1829.     See  family  50. 

3.  Elmore  F.,  b.  26  May,  1839.     See  family  51. 

FAMILY    NO.    25. 

From  Family  No.   11.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
John,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  about  1800,  in  East  Sudbury  now 
Wayland,  Mass.  He  removed  to  Clarendon,  Vt.;  with  him  in  the 
same  town  lived  his  brother  John,  who  is  buried  in  Plattsburg,  N.  Y., 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  501 

where  resided  another  brother,  Josiah;  before  removing  to  Vermont 
the  brothers  for  a  time  had  resided  in  Cambridge,  Mass.;  died  in 
1851;  was  a  farmer;  married  in  1826,  Sallie  Smith,  of  Clarendon,  Vt., 
who  died  in  1887.     Issue: 

1.  John  de  T.,  b.  in  1835.     See  family  52. 

2.  Eliza,  b.  in  1837;  d.  in  1869. 

3.  Aurick  S.,  b.  31  Jan.,  1846.     See  family  53. 

4.  Sarah,  b.  in  1849;  d.  in  1893. 

FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From  Family  No.   11.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Kbenezer,  Samuel, 
John,  Josiah. 

Josiah  Brackett  was  born  in  East  Sudbury  (now  Wayland), 
Mass.,  about  1806;  removed  to  Vermont,  thence  to  Plattsburg,  N.  Y., 
where  he  engaged  in  the  wholesale  bakery  business;  died  March  6, 
1840;  married  February  28,  1828,  Mary  Sperry,  born  October  23, 
1808,  died  November  30,  1845,  in  New  Medford,  Conn.,  at  the  home 
of  her  uncle,  Riley  Peet;  was  eldest  child  of  Anson  Joseph  Sperry, 
born  September  8,  1784,  in  New  Medford,  Conn.,  died  February  17, 
1830,  in  Plattsburg,  a  lawyer,  and  wife,  Euna  Peet  (his  cousin),  born 
November  5,  1781,  in  Manchester,  Vt.,  died  October  29,  18 10,  daugh- 
ter of  Samuel  W.,  and  wife,  Eucy  Bostwick.  By  her  family  it. was 
thought  that  she  had  married  beneath  her  as  her  father  was  one  of 
the  most  prominent  lawyers  of  the  country,  while  her  husband  was  a 
baker.  He  failed  in  his  business  shortly  before  his  death,  leaving  his 
widow  but  little.  Upon  his  death  she  went  to  New  York  city  with 
three  children  and  opened  a  select  school,  which  she  taught  until  six 
months  before  she  died.  The  story  is  that  she  had  a  hard  life,  was 
compelled  to  give  music  lessons  to  support  the  family.  In  1905,  there 
lived  in  Plattsburg  a  person  who  remembered  Josiah  Brackett;  when 
asked  questions  relative  to  his  old  cronie's  habits,  he  had  nothing  to 
say  further  than  that  he  knew  him  as  "Brackett"  and  "used  to  go 
fishing  with  him."     Issue: 

1.  Eucy  E.,  b.  29  Apr.,  1829;  d.  30  May,  1891;  mar.  Henry  M. 
Beals,  of  Avon,  Mass.,  who  d.  27  Dec,  1901.  Had  one  son,  Henry 
Walter;  resided  on  Hancock  street,  in  Quincy,  Mass. 

2.  Mary  Matilda,  b.  14  Jan.,  1831;  d.  7  Oct.,  1848;  mar.  in  Jan. 
1848,  Chester  Goodsell,  innkeeper  in  New  York  city  in  1848;  later 
a  confectioner  in  EHzabethport,  N.  J.,  b.  16  May,  1820,  d.  in  1867, 
son  of  Homer  and  wife,  Abigail  Kingsley.     Issue: 

1st.  Mary  A.,  b.  7  Oct.,  1848,  in  New  York  city;  from  age  of  2 
years  lived  with  father's  relatives,  from  age  of  18  years  in  the  family 
of  her  uncle,  Edward  R.  Brackett;  mar.  9  June,  1872,  George  E. 
Barnum,  farmer  in  New  Milford  (P.  O.  Northville),  Conn.,  b.  6  Aug., 
1846,  son  of  Garry  and  wife,   Susan  Ferguson,  of  Brookfield,  Conn. 

3.  Josiah,  b.  in  Nov.,  1832;  d.  7  Apr.,  1833. 

4.  Edward  Raymond,  b.  21  Dec,  1835;  mar.  Abbie  Miranda  Man- 
chester, of  Westport,  Conn.;  resided  in  Brockton,  Mass.;  d.  8  Apr., 
1900.     Issue: 

1st.  Calvin  Ellsworth,  b.  18  May,  1861,  in  Brockton,  Mass.; 
mar.  4  Oct.,  1883,  Fanny  Cushman  Foye,  of  Weymouth,  Mass.,  b.  25 
June,  i860;  he  and  his  father  were  salesmen  for  F.  B.  Washburn  & 
Co.,  confectioners,  of  Brockton;  d.  3  May,  1894.     Issue: 


502  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

I  Maud  Ellsworth,  b.  19  Aug.,  1884. 
II.  Avis  Raymond,  b.  28  Sept.,  1886. 
5.  Anson  S.,  b.  4  May,  1838;  d.  in  July,  1863.  As  accounts  per- 
taining to  his  life  and  death  are  conflicting  and  interesting,  they  will 
be  given  at  length.  His  mother's  sister,  L,ucy,  mar.  Isaac  B.  Kirt- 
land,  a  cotton  merchant  in  Mississippi  and  a  banker  in  Memphis, 
Tenn.  About  the  year  1858,  she  and  her  husband  visited  her  rela- 
tives in  New  England  and  New  York,  and  Anson  S.  Brackett  returned 
with  them  to  Memphis.  Upon  the  commencement  of  the  war  he  went 
into  the  Confederate  army.  As  shown  by  the  report  of  the  War 
Department  his  service  was — Enlisted  21  May,  1861,  at  Nashville, 
Tenn.,  as  a  corporal  in  co.  H,  7th  Tenn.  vol.  inf..  C.  S.  A.,  and  was 
discharged  Sept.  5,  1861,  on  surgeon's  certificate  of  disability. 
Enlisted  3  Jan.,  1862,  at  Camp  Cheatam  as  a  private  in  co.  G,  4th 
Tenn.  vol.  cav.,  C.  S.  A.,  and  was  killed  2  June,  1863,  near  Cumber- 
laud,  Md. 

The  last  letter  his  brother  or  sister  received  from  him  brought  the 
news  that  his  intention  was  to  go  into  the  Confederate  army;  they  had 
heard  that  he  had  married  a  wealthy  lady,  but  had  no  further  informa- 
tion concerning  him  or  his  of  a  reliable  character.  The  writer  with  a 
view  of  learning  if  he  had  left  surviving  any  children,  endeavored  to 
correspond  with  some  of  his  comrades  in  arms.  A  letter  to  the  com- 
mander of  a  post  at  Nashville,  brought  a  promise  of  aid;  the  corres- 
pondent advertised  in  "The  Veteran"  and  soon  the  writer  had  the 
facts  which  served  his  purposes. 

It  appears  that  an  Anson  S.  (H.  S.)  Brackett  who  had  an  uncle 
in  Memphis,  was  killed  by  another  Confederate  soldier  near  Columbia, 
Tenn.,  in  July,  1863.  A  letter  was  received  dated  July  1,  1906,  from 
Mr.  R.  K.  Estes,  R.  F.  D.  No.  10,  Columbia,  Tenn.,  which  reads — 

"Mr.  H.  S.  Brackett  came  to  my  house  in  the  fall  of  1862,  sick 
with  consumption  and  staid  six  months.  He  was  a  soldier,  belonged 
to  Forrest's  cavalry,  Starn's  brigade.  He  claimed  to  be  from  Mem- 
phis, that  he  had  an  uncle  there.  He  was  a  man  35  years  old,  small 
stature,  light  complexion,  sandy  hair;  claimed  to  be  unmarried.  He 
was  killed  in  July,  1863,  in  a  personal  difficulty  concerning  his  charac- 
ter, by  another  soldier  by  the  name  of  Saddath  (or  Sudith).  Brackett 
was  well  educated  and  a  perfect  gentleman.  I  brought  home  his 
corpse  and  buried  it  in  the  family  graveyard." 

The  entries  upon  which  the  report  of  the  War  Department  is 
based,  were  perhaps  made  months  after  the  death  of  Brackett  and 
upon  the  vaguest  rumors  relative  to  matters  connected  with  it.  Starns' 
brigade  was  not  in  Maryland  during  the  war.  Brackett  had  not  been 
with  his  regiment  for  six  months  at  the  time  he  was  killed.  Perhaps 
it  was  that  being  a  northern  man  he  had  so  resented  a  charge  of 
indifference  orjxeaehery  to  the  cause  he  was  fighting  for,  that  a  resort 
to  arms  was  made  then  and  there  by  him  and  his  opponent,  with  fatal 
results  as  to  himself. 

FAMILY    NO.    27. 

From  Family  No.  12.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,   Samuel, 
Solomon,  Josiah  P. 

Josiah  Parkhurst  Brackett  was  born  June  16,  1797,  in  Natick, 
Mass.     When  a  young  man  he  lost  his  left  hand  by  the  discharge  of  a 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  503 

gun;  his  nerve  and  self  control  were  shown  by  his  refusing  to  be  blind- 
folded or  bound,  as  the  custom  was  then  in  amputating;  he  underwent 
the  operation  without  moving  a  muscle  or  uttering  a  sound  though 
greatly  weakened  by  the  loss  of  blood.  Was  never  physically  strong, 
of  quiet  retiring  disposition,  of  firmness  in  conviction,  and  strict  blame- 
less life.  Never  joined  a  church  but  believed  unquestionably  the  Bible 
as  he  read  it,  and  was  essentially  a  Congregationalist.  Led  a  very 
quiet  home  life;  not  being  well  enough  to  do  active  business,  raised 
vegetables,  did  miscellaneous  work  in  the  bakery,  and  was  a  surveyor 
of  wood  and  lumber.  Seldom  went  from  his  home,  even  to  the  vil- 
lages near  by,  and  never  rode  in  the  cars.  The  early  death  of  his 
wife  was  probably  the  reason  for  his  leading  a  secluded  life.  Resided 
in  Framingham;  died  in  1866.  Married  in  1837,  Susan  Edmonds, 
who  died  in  August,  1839,  daughter  of  Jonathan  and  wife,  Lucy 
Nourse,  of  Framingham,  Mass.  Lucy  Nourse  was  direct  descendant, 
sixth  generation,  from  Rebecca  Nourse  executed  as  a  witch  in  Salem, 
Mass.     Issue: 

1.     Solomon  H.,  b.  25  Sept.,  1838.     See  family  54. 

FAMILY    NO.    28. 

From  Family  No.  12.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Solomon,  Amos. 
Amos  Brackett  was  born  about  1804,  in  Framingham,  Mass.; 
about  1830  he  lost  a  valuable  horse,  and  believing  that  those  who  doc- 
tored it,  did  not  understand  their  business,  he  said  that  he  would 
become  his  own  veterinarian,  that  no  one  but  himself  should  ever  pre- 
scribe for  a  horse  of  his.  He  procured  the  latest  works  on  the  science 
and  qualified  himself  for  the  practice.  At  first  he  refused  to  doctor 
any  horses  except  his  own,  but  departed  from  this  course  through  the 
persuasion  of  those  who  needed  his  services  and  knew  his  skill;  he 
soon  had  a  very  extensive  practice,  had  large  barns  filled  with  patients, 
valuable  horses.  About  1850  he  removed  from  Nobscot  to  Worcester 
where  he  carried  on  his  practice,  and  where  he  resided  until  his  death 
— estate  administered  in  July,  1866.     Married  Almira  Morse.     Issue: 

1.  Susan  Mary,  b.  about  1833. 

2.  Edwin  A.,  b.  about  1831. 

3.  Gilbert,  b.  about  1835;  was  a  veterinarian;  died  from  inocula- 
tion of  some  disease  of  horses. 

4.  Frederick,  b.  about  1837. 

5.  George  H.,  b.  about  1840;  d.  while  a  young  man. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From  Family  No.   12  A.     Descent:  Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Eben- 
ezer, Lemuel,  Lemuel,  De  Witt  C. 

DeWitt  Clinton  Brackett  was  born  October  9,  181 2,  in  Water- 
town,  Mass.;  a  broker  in  Boston;  for  some  years  resided  in  Newton; 
died  August  26,  1874.     Married  April  26,  1855,  Eliza  Ann  Cushing, 


504  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

born  June  17,   1825,  daughter  of  Jonathan  and  wife,  Eliza  Ann  Tim- 
sou,  of  Boston.     Issue: 

1.  Frederick  Harrison,  b.  11  Mar.,  1856,  in  Boston;  a  chiropodist 
in  Boston;  home,  in  Revere;  mar.  7  May,  1877,  Annie  Maria  Con- 
drey,  b.  17  Jan.,  i860,  dau.  of  William  of  Hudson,  N.  J. 

2.  Emma  Frances,  b.  20  Nov.,  1857;  mar.  Frederick  A.  Kincaid, 
of  Dorchester,  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.    30. 

From  Family  No.  13.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Ebenezer, 
Lemuel,  Timothy  N.,  Dana  F. 

Dana  Fitch  Brackett  was  born  September  3,  1834,  in  Guilford, Vt.; 
retired  mechanic  in  Brattleboro,  Vt.;  removed  from  Guilford  to  Brat- 
tleboro  in  i860;  married  September  11,  i860,  Lucie  Taylor,  born 
May  20,  1838,  daughter  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Belinda  Neatherhead,  of 
Guilford.     Issue: 

1.  Wilford,  b.  14  Aug.,  1864;  cashier  in  Peoples  bank  in  Brattle- 
boro; mar.  1  Aug.,  1888,  Bertha  M.  Hines.     Issue: 

1st.     Roger  Arnold,  b.  15  Mar.,  1895. 

2.  Eucie  Isabel,  b.  12  June,  1870;  mar.  19  Apr.,  1897,  Dennisou 
Cowles.     Issue: 

1st.     Dennison  Brackett,  b.  10  Feb.,  1898. 

FAMILY    NO.   31. 

From  Family  No.  13.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Ebenezer, 
Eemuel,  Timothy  N.,  Fredric  N. 

Fredric  Nichols  Brackett  was  born  October  6,  1835,  in  Green 
River,  Vt.;  has  resided  in  Brattleboro,  Vt.,  Methuen,  Mass.,  and 
Manchester,  N.  H.,  in  the  order  named;  is  a  dealer  in  horses  in  Man- 
chester; married  May  8,  i860,  Maverett  Simonds,  born  October  13, 
1842,  died  December  22,  1891,  daughter  of  James  H.  and  wife,  Elsie 
A.  Foster,  of  Brattleboro.     Issue: 

1.  Frank  H.,  b.  6  Aug.,  1861;  mar.  in  1886,  Eaura  Cook;  resides 
in  Nashua,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1st.     Mollie,  b.  13  Feb.,  1888,  in  Brattleboro. 
2nd.     Guy  B.,  b.  6  Sept.,  1891,  in  Brattleboro. 

2.  Charles  A.,  b.  5  Dec,  1865;  mar.  in  1898,  Ella  Ellis;  resides  in 
Brattleboro. 

3.  Harrie  G.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1870;  mar.  in  1893,  Clara  Hacker;  resides 
in  Methuen.     Issue: 

1st.     Gladys,  b.  in  1896,  in  Methuen. 
2nd.     Helen  B.,  b.  in  1898,  in  Methuen. 

4.  Edward  F.,  b.  5  July,  1872;  resides  in  Methuen. 

FAMILY  'NO.    32. 

From  Family  No.   14.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Gilman. 

Oilman  Brackett  was  born  December  5,  18 16,  in  Newton  Center, 
Mass.;  always  lived  in  Newton  where  he  was  a  dealer  in  provisions; 
died  November  16,  1899.     Married  March  7,  1844,  Caroline  Russell, 


EBENEZER,    OF    DBDHAM  505 

born  January  2,    1822,  died  August   18,  1891,   daughter  of  Jeremiah 
and  wife,  Roxana  Barnard,  of  Watertown,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  William  Russell,  b.  1  Aug.,  1845;  mar.  Cora  Snow;  resides  in 
Newton.     Issue: 

1st.     Gilman  Snow,  d.  when  about  6  years  old. 
2nd.     Ruth  Snow,  b.  3  Feb.,  1893. 

2.  Willard  G.,  b.  1  Aug.,  1845.     See  family  56. 

3.  Ellery  Canning,  b.  24  Mar.,  1856;  d.  2  May,  1868. 

FAMILY    NO.    33. 

From  Family  No.   14.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Nathaniel. 

Nathaniel  Brackett  was  born  about  1822;  during  his  life  he 
resided  continuously  in  Newton,  Mass.;  a  farmer,  and  later  a  dealer 
in  meats  in  company  with  his  brother  Gilman;  died  July  1,  1877. 
Married  Abigail  Wilder,  born  May  16,  1825,  died  December  10,  1898, 
daughter  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Ruth  Clark,  of  Sterling  and  Lancaster, 
Mass.      Issue: 

1.  Minnie  M.,  b.  30  Sept.,  1858. 

2.  Elliott  Gray,  b.  6  Apr.,  i860;  a  physician  in  Boston;  graduate 
of  Harvard  Medical  school,  class  of  1886;  assistant  surgeon,  Children's 
hospital;  instructor,  Harvard  Medical  school;  member  of  Massachu- 
setts Medical  society,  American  Medical  association,  and  American 
Orthopedic  association.  Mar.  17  Jan.,  1901,  Katharine  F.  Pedrick, 
dau.  of  William  R.  and  wife,  Elinor  B.  Simmons,  of  Lawrence,  Mass. 
No  issue. 

3.  Sarah  E.,  b.  21  May,  1863;   mar.  Alfred  Julian  Rowan.     Issue: 
1st.     Helen  Hamilton,  b.  31  May,  1893. 

4.  Katharine  G.,  b.  22  Oct.,  1867;  d.  22  July,  1903;  mar.  Henry 
Edson  Hersey  Whiton.     Issue: 

1st.     Margaret  Brackett,  b.  14  Sept.,  1896. 
2nd.      Nathaniel  Brackett,  b.  12  July,  1903. 

FAMILY    NO.   34. 

From  Family  No.  15.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  George,  Edwin. 
Edwin  Brackett  was  born  January  17,  1814,  in  Lynn,  Mass.;  was 
a  tanner,  resided  in  Walpole,  Mass.,  and  Rochester,  Vt.;  died  April 
28,  1S64.  Married  in  1835,  Mary  Brown  Dodge,  bom  in  1814,  died  in 
1854,  daughter  .of  Peter,  of  Salem,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Ellen,  b.  in  1836;  mar.  John  W.  Call;  d.  in  1870. 

2.  Edwin  F.  A.,  b.  in  1838;  d.  in  1895;  served  in  civil  war  in  50th 
Mass.  vol.  inf.;  was  mar.;  children,  Mary;  Samuel;  Elizabeth; 
Edwin;  Anna;  George;   Walter. 

3.  William  H.,  b.  in  1840;  mar.  Nettie  Chrittenden;  resides  in 
Michigan;  served  in  civil  war  in  10th  Vt.  vol.;  has  dau.  Anna. 

4.  Samuel  P.,  b.  in  1842  in  Walpole,  Mass.;  removed  to  Lynn, 
thence  to  Leominster,  Mass.,  where  he  resides  and  is  a  dealer  in 
leather;  served  in  40th  Mass.  vol.  inf.,  from  1862  to  1865;  mar.  in 
1874,  Clara  A.  Chaffin,  b.  in  1848,  dau.  of  Nathan  and  wife,  Abbie 
Richardson,  of  Acton,  Mass.     No  issue. 


506  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    35. 

From  Family  No.  15.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  George,  Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  March  27,  1822,  in  Lynn,  Mass.;  mar- 
ried (1st)  July  18,  1845,  Martha  Briggs,  is  deceased;  (2nd)  March  20, 
1865,  Catharine  J.  Stone,  of  Norfolk,  Va.  Died  August  23,  1894. 
Issue: 

1.  Caroline  A.,  who  mar.  Donald  D.  Smith;  home,  in  Springfield, 
Mass. 

2.  Frank,  is  dec. 

3.  Fred,  resides  in  Cincinnati,  O. 
By  wife  Catharine  J.  Stone: 

4.  Eugene,  is  dec. 

5.  Frank  Stuart,  is  dec. 

6.  Blanch  Irene. 

7.  J.  Maude,  mar.  Arthur  J.  Wilson;  home,  in  Chelsea,  Mass. 
Issue: 

1st.     Retta  Louise,  b.  30  Oct.,  1894. 

8.  Etta  Maye. 

9.  Dotta  Belle. 

10.  Charles  Stone,  b.  19  Oct.,  1881. 

FAMILY    NO.    36. 
From  Family  No.   16.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Rufus,  Henry. 

Henry  Brackett  was  born  June   16,    1812,   in  Lynn,   Mass.;  died 

September  1,  1866;  was  a  dealer  in  leather;  married  June  24,  , 

Sarah  H  olden,  born  June  18,  1831,   died  June  25,  1904,  daughter  of 
Thomas  and  wife,  Mary  Jewett,  of  Boston,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  Frederick  H.,  b.  13  May,  1854,  in  Newton,  Mass.;  is  a  whole- 
sale grocer  in  Boston,  Mass. 

2.  Thomas  H.,  b.  21  Sept.,  1858,  in  Newton;  was  a  stationer  on 
Pearl  street,  Boston;  d.  in  July,  1905;  mar.  30  Nov.,  1887,  Frances 
Putnam  Robinson,  b.  14  July,  1873,  dau.  of  George  Irving  Rob- 
inson and  wife,  Sarah  Louise  Smith,  of  Boston.     No  issue. 

3.  Edith  W.,  b.  ;  mar.   Ronald  A.   Stuart;   d.  in   1899.     No 

issue. 

4.  Luther  M.,  mar.  Hellen  Tappan;  resides  in  Boston;  has  chil- 
dren. 

FAMILY    NO.    37. 

From  Family  No.  16.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Rufus,  Rufus. 

Rufus  Brackett  was  born  December  15,  1824;  went  to  California 
in  1849;  engaged  in  mining  for  a  short  time,  when  he  settled  in  Ben- 
icia,  Cal.,  where  he  became  a  merchant  as  partner  of  Jabez  Hatch, 
auctioneer,  of  Boston;  they  sold  their  business  in  1859,  went  to  Boston 
in   September.    1859;   returned  to   California  in    i860.     At  Pacheco, 

Hatch  and  Brackett  purchased  an  interest  in  the  store  of  Hook, 

oldest  brother  of  the  wife  of  Brackett;  in  1872,  sold  his  interest  in  the 
store  and  removed  to  ranch,  the  property  of  his  wife,  in  Gravland, 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  507 

Cal.;  in  1887,  removed  to  Martinez,  Cal.,  where  he  died  August  15, 
1889.  Married  January  24,  1861,  Amanda  Hook,  born  April  8,  1842, 
daughter  of  William  Hook  and  wife,  Miranda  E.  Brown,  of  Hook- 
ston,  Cal.     Mrs.  Brackett  resides  in  Concord,  Cal.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Josephine,  b.   18  Nov.,  1861,  in  Pacheeo,   Contra  Costa 
co.,  Cal.;  d.  2  May,  1882,  at  Gravland  ranch. 

2.  Grace  Amy,  b.   8  Feb.,  1863,  in  Pacheeo;  mar.   15  Jan.,  1887, 
George  A.  Putnam,  son  of  John  and  wife,  Sophie  S.     Issue: 

1st.     George  Blalock,  b.  7  May,  1888,  in  Walla  Walla,  Wash. 
2nd.     Grace  Belle,  b.  4  May,  1899,  at  Gravland  ranch. 
3d.     Marian  B.,  b.   22  Feb.,    1901,  at  Gravland  ranch  in  Contra 
Costa  co.,  Cal. 

4th.     John  Van  Alstine,  b.  16  Nov.,  1902,  at  Gravland  ranch. 

3.  Ada  Belle,  b.  13  Sept.,  1864;  d.  13  Sept.,  1887. 

4.  Lewis  Hatch,  b.  24  June,  1866;  d.  16  Dec,  1869. 

FAMILY    NO.    38. 

From  Family  No.   16.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Rufus,  Isaiah  W.  P.  L. 

Isaiah  William  Penn  Lewis  Brackett  was  born  November  25, 
1828;  is  a  resident  of  Brookline,  Mass.,  at  No.  50  Pleasant  street. 
Married  (1st)  June  15,  1859,  Catherine  Jackson  Hall,  died  July  6, 
1874,  daughter  of  Hiram  K.  and  Louise  Whitman  Hall;  (2nd)  Janu- 
ary 29,  1880,  Lavinia  Maxwell  Prescott,  daughter  of  Frederick  W. 
and  wife,  Emily  Maxwell.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Ann  Louise,  b.  11  Oct.,  i860;  mar.  23  May,  1888,  George 
A.  Patterson;    (2nd)  Harry  Mygatt;  home,  in  South  Norwalk,  Conn. 

2.  Kate  Hall,  b.  19  Dec,  1861. 

3.  Paul  Bishop,  b.  16  Mar.,  1863;  mar.  28  Mar.,  1884,  Hedeia 
H.  Senter;  have  one  daughter. 

FAMILY    NO.    39. 

From  Family  No.   18.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Charles  N.,  Charles  N. 

Charles  Newell  Brackett  was  born  February  1,  1826,  in  Newton, 
Mass.;  was  a  garden  farmer  in  Newton;  died  January  3,  1899,  in 
Watertown,  Mass.;  for  twenty  years  was  chairman  of  the  Fruit  and 
Vegetable  committee  of  the  Massachusetts  Horticultural  society;  mar- 
ried June  25,  185 1,  in  New  York  city,  Sarah  Frances  Foster,  born 
May  5,  1827,  in  Castine,  Me.,  died  March  1,  1871,  in  Newton,  Mass., 
daughter  of  John  Mycall  Foster  and  wife,  Mary  Walker  Lawrence,  of 
Bangor,  Me.     Issue: 

1.  Sidney  Lawrence,  b.  11  Oct.,  1852,  in  Newton,  Mass.;  artist, 
animal  painter,  in  Newton;  for  a  time  followed  a  commercial  life,  then 
fitted  himself  for  his  profession,  a  pupil  of  the  late  John  B.  Johnston, 
and  of  Frederick  P.  Vincent  portrait  painter  of  Boston;  also  a  student 
in  the  Boston  Art  museum;  excels  as  a  painter  of  animals,  in  particu- 
lar of  pets— kittens;  these  he  has  pictured  in  their  lovable  acts,  winning 
attitudes  and  mischievous  pranks.  Some  of  his  best  productions  are 
entitled,  "At  Play";  "A  Happy  Family";  "Three  Little  Kittens"; 
''Little    Philosophers."      Mar.    24   June,    1879,    in    Newton,    Hattie 


508  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Boyd  Mackmaster,  b.  u  Mar.,  1861,  dau.  of  Hugh  Boyd  Mack- 
master  and  wife,  Mary  Elizabeth  Johnson,  of  Charlestown,  Mass.  No 
issue. 

2.  Robert  Apthorp,  b.  25  Jan.,  1857;  mar.  Jennie  Hayes  of  Boston. 

3.  Grace  Webster,  b.  27  Sept.,  i860. 

4.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  1  Mar.,  1869;   d.  1  May,  1869. 

FAMILY  NO.    40. 

From  Family  No.   18.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Charles  N.,  Gilbert  R. 

Rev.  Gilbert  Robbins  Brackett,  D.  D.  was  born  July  9,  1833,  in 
Newton,  Mass.;  died  November  29,  1902,  in  Charleston,  S.  C;  was  a 
Presbyterian  clergyman  and  at  the  time  of  his  death  had  been  pastor 
of  the  Second  Presbyterian  church  of  Charleston,  for  thirty-one  years. 

Scarlet  fever,  with  which  he  was  afflicted  at  the  age  of  ten  years, 
left  him  a  legacy  of  miserable  health;  with  him  for  years,  living  was  a 
struggle  against  death.  His  search  for  health  was,  perhaps,  the 
means  of  his  finding  that  field  of  labor  for  which  he  was  peculiarly 
fitted  by  his  gifts  for  zealous  work,  for  constancy  in  purpose  and  of 
cheerfulness  of  disposition,  that  won  hearts  to  his  cause  and  many 
friends  and  admirers  of  himself. 

At  an  early  age  he  made  choice  of  the  ministry  as  a  profession. 
Delicate  health  alone  barred  his  path;  though  there  were  other  obsta- 
cles along  the  way,  these  he  surmounted;  they  never  caused  him  to 
forego  his  purpose.  In  his  early  school  days  at  Waltham,  Mass.,  he 
broke  down  under  the  strain.  Yielding  to  the  advice  of  friends  he 
gave  up  his  intention  of  studying  for  the  ministry  and  commenced  the 
study  of  civil  engineering.  One  month  of  the  course  at  Rensellaer 
institute  at  Troy,  N.  Y.,  demonstrated  his  physical  unfitness  to  take 
it;  his  frail  health  could  not  withstand  the  requirements  for  the  prepa- 
ration for  the  profession.  A  week's  employment  in  a  Boston  counting 
house  quelled  all  desire  he  may  have  had  for  a  commercial  life,  even 
with  a  prospect  of  $10,000  a  year;  in  preference  he  would  choose  "a 
literary  profession  with  poverty,"  he  wrote  in  his  diary. 

Notwithstanding  the  misery  which  the  confinement  and  labor  of 
a  student's  life  meant  to  him  he  resolved  on  a  "college  education  or 
'die."  For  three  years  he  attended  academies  and  in  the  fall  of  1853 
entered  the  freshman  class  of  Amherst  (Mass.)  college  with  the  result 
that  before  the  year  was  ended 'his  physician  advised  him  to  quit  col- 
lege and  study  forever. 

For  a  year  he  worked  in  the  store  of  his  brother  Henry  in  Boston. 
In  April,  1855,  he  went  west,  to  Chicago,  seeking  employment. 
"The  journey  was  full  of  mishaps,  accidents,  disappointments,  and 
experiences  with  rascals,  all  ending  with  his  sickness  and  a  forced 
return  home." 

He  had  a  fondness — a  talent  for  music;  his  fingers  were  so  short 
and  hands  so  small  that  he  could  not  span  an  octave; — "fingers  were 
all  thumbs  and  stiff-jointed  besides,"  his  sister  Georgiana  said. 
Defects  of  nature  this  determined  and  persistent  man  could  overcome 
or  remedy;  his  fingers  he  lengthened  by  straining  and  pulling,  by  a 
course  of  digital  gymnastics,  until  he  could  span  an  octave,  and  there- 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  509 

upo.i  faithfully  practiced  day  after  day  for  hours  at  a  time  until  he 
became  a  proficient  performer. 

This  man,  whose  soul's  aspiration  was  to  become  a  minister,  had 
written  in  his  diary,  perhaps  as  a  rule  of  observance,  the  following 
from  Gcethe: 

"If  thou  art  anything 

Keep  still  in  silence; 

All  will  work  out  well. 

For  place  him  wheresoe'er  you  will 

The  real  man  will  always  tell." 
This  man  who  thought  the  better  course  was  to  "keep  still  in 
silence"  as  "the  real  man  will  always  tell,"  could,  in  his  younger 
days,  hardly  utter  in  public  a  coherent  sentence.  "His  native  diffi- 
dence, "  reads  the  Charleston  Presbytery  tribute  to  the  memory  of  the 
Rev.  G.  R.  Brackett,  "made  speaking  in  public  excruciating  torture 
which  often  paralyzed  him  into  forgetting  carefully  written  prayers 
and  addresses  and  even  the  Lord's  prayer.  His  agony  was  unspeak- 
able; but  he  persevered  until  he  was  able  to  speak  and  pray  fluently 
with  little  embarrassment." 

In  1856,  he  made  a  five-months'  voyage  to  South  America;  he 
returned  greatly  improved  in  health  and  resumed  his  practice  on  the 
piano. 

In  the  fall  of  1858,  his  intention  was  to  go  to  Texas  to  teach 
school;  the  friend  who  offered  him  a  school  in  Texas  removed  to  New 
Jersey  and  offered  him  a  school  there.  To  New  Jersey  he  started. 
At  a  wharf  in  Boston  was  a  ship  bound  for  Savannah,  Ga.  Yielding 
to  an  impulse  this  man  of  persistence  in  purpose  engaged  passage  for 
Savannah.  The  next  morning  he  was  too  late  to  get  aboard;  with  a 
row  boat  he  overtook  the  ship  while  getting  out  to  sea,  and  on  Janu- 
ary 23,  1859,  he  stepped  foot  on  the  land  where  was  cast  his  lot  thence- 
forth, the  Sunny  South. 

He  was  still  in  search  of  a  school;  he  found  none  in  Savannah. 
One  was  offered  him  in  Stark,  Florida;  en  route  to  accept,  he  was 
induced  to  take  a  school  in  Fernandina,  Florida.  While  there  he 
became  a  member  of  the  Presbyterian  church,  having  been  theretofore 
united  with  the  Congregational  church.  The  pastor  of  the  church  in 
Fernandina  offered  to  teach  him  theology  privately.  To  this  he  at 
once  agreed.  Shortly  after  he  entered  Columbia  seminary;  "had 
come  there  to  die,"  a  fellow  student  said.  He  took  regular  exercise 
for  his  health,  practiced  with  dumbbells,  took  morning  baths  and 
walked  two  or  three  miles  daily.  And  to  the  woods  he  went  every 
day  to  practice  elocutionary  exercises  to  strengthen  his  voice  and, 
perhaps,  to  do  a  little  stump  speaking.  Never  was  there  a  man  so 
modest  but  that  he  can  speak  amidst  the  stumps;  it  is  there  one  can 
begin  to  shake  off  his  diffidence.  In  1862,  he  was  licensed  to  preach 
and  supplied  churches  that  year;  was  at  Unity  church,  Rowan  county, 
N.  C,  for  some  months  from  June,  1863;  was  ordained  May  14,  1864, 
and  became  pastor  of  Third  Creek  church  in  Rowan  county,  N.  C. 
It  is  proper  to  state  that  soon  after  his  graduation  from  the  seminary 
in  1862,  he  served  a  little  time  in  religious  work  among  the  Confed- 
erate state  troops  from  N.  C.  June  5,  1868,  he  became  pastor  of  Scion 
church,  Winnsboro,  S.  C,  and  in  May,  1871,  became  pastor  of  the 
Second  Presbyterian  church  in  Charleston.     In   1877,   Davidson  col- 


510  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

lege,   N.   C,  conferred  upon  him  the  honorary  degree  of   doctc  >   of 
divinity. 

By  devotion  to  his  duties  he  endeared  himself  to  the  people; 
through  his  constant  efforts,  particularly  his  able  and  carefully  pre- 
pared sermons,  the  church  grew  in  numbers  and  popularity  until  the 
measure  of  his  success  fully  gratified  his  ambition.  He  earned  the 
love  and  respect  that  were  shown  him  in  life  and  paid  to  his  memory 
after  his  death.  It  was  his  lot  to  be  in  the  South  upon  the  commence- 
ment of  the  fratricidal  strife.  Little  can  one  imagine  the  intensity  of 
his  feelings,  of  his  extreme  sorrow,  at  the  catastrophe  to  the  nation. 
His  work  was  the  ministry,  to  help  care  for  the  suffering,  and  this  he 
performed.  It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  he  was  loved  by  those 
whose  dangers,  sufferings,  and  misfortunes  he  had  shared.  Married 
December  2,  1862,  Teresa  Louise  Newman,  born  September  28,  1841, 
daughter  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Joanna  Burke,  of  Baltimore,  Aid.     Issue: 

1.  Richard  N.,  b.  14  Sept.,  1863.     See  family  57. 

2.  Helen  Louise,  b.  3  May,  1867;  d.  8  July,  1868. 

3.  Gertrude  Isabel,  b.  5  Nov.,  1869;  mar.  3  Jan.,  1900,  Albert 
Brackett  Fitzgerald,  a  farmer,  b.  27  Sept.,  1865,  son  of  Capt.  Thomas 
H.  and  wife,  Mary  Ann  Newman,  of  Baltimore,  and  Somerset  co., 
Md.;  their  mothers  are  half-sisters;  his  middle  name  is  for  her  father, 
given  him  because  of  the  esteem  in  which  Dr.  Brackett  was  held  by 
his  parents.  Though  b.  in  Winnsboro,  she  lived  in  Charleston,  S.  C, 
from  babyhood  to  marriage  and  since  has  resided  on  the  Manokin 
river,  near  Princess  Anne  in  Somerset  co.,  Md.     Issue: 

1st.  Gilbert  Brackett,  b.  6  Dec,  1900,  in  Charleston,  S.  C. 
2nd.  Mary  Louise,  b.  19  Apr.,  1902,  in  Somerset  co.,  Md. 
3d.     Charlotte  Newman,  b.  10  Dec,  1904,  in  Somerset  co.,  Md. 

FAMILY    NO.    41. 

From  Family  No.  18.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Charles  N.,  Henry. 

Henry  Brackett  was  born  September  30,  183 1,  in  Newton,  Mass.; 
was  a  dealer  in  provisions  in  Newton,  where  he  died  July  1,  1892; 
married  April  2,  1868,  Mrs.  Eliza  A.  Brackett,  nee  Heywood,  born 
August  20,  1838,  daughter  of  Abel  B.  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Lawrence, 
of  Concord,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Marian  Heywood,  b.  in  March,  1869;   d.  in  July,  1869. 

2.  Henry  Heywood,  b.  27  Apr.,  1870. 

3.  Alcie  Gay,  b.  11  Mar.,  1872. 

4.  Paul  Lawrence,  b.  30  Mar.,  1877;  mar.  23  July,  1892,  Ella 
Boardman;  resides  in  Newton. 

5.  Ralph  Theodore,  b.  11  Nov.,  1881. 

FAMILY    NO.    42. 

From  Family  No.   18.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Charles  N.,  George  F. 

George  Franklin  Brackett  was  born  in  Newton,  Mass.,  April  n, 
1838;  was  a  gardener  in  Newton,  where  he  died  October  30,  1876;  mar- 
ried January  7,    1874,   Frances  A.    Shapleigh,   born  April   29,   1847, 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  511 

daughter  of  Charles  and  wife,  Elizabeth  J.  Corbett,  of  Newton.     Issue: 

1.  Wallace  Clark,  b.  10  Nov.,  1874;  mar.  Florence  E.  Barker; 
resides  in  Melrose,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.      Phyllis,  b.  30  Sept.,  1899. 

2.  George  Shapleigh,  b.  6  Aug.,  1876;  is  a  mechanical  engineer; 
resides  in  Melrose,  Mass.;  served  in  co.  L,  5th  U.  S.  vol.  inf.,  for 
9  months  during  the  Spanish  war. 

FAMILY    NO.    43. 
From  Familv  No.  21.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  William,  William  C. 

William  Campbell  Brackett  was  born  October  1,  1812,  in  Little- 
ton, N.  H.;  was  a  merchant;  resided  in  Littleton  all  his  life;  died  Feb- 
ruary 14,  1863;  married  January  18,  1842,  Julia  Ann  Ross,  born  Feb- 
ruary 9,  1817,  died  May  15,  1898,  daughter  of  Samuel  and  wife,  

Smith,  of  Bath,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  William  R.,  b.  24  Nov.,  1842.     See  family  58. 

2.  Edward  Dudley,  b.  6  Nov.,  1845;  is  a  merchant  in  Kansas  city, 
Mo.;  resided  in  Littleton  to  1864;  mar.  7  Jan.,  1869,  Georgianna  A. 
Hadley,  b.  13  Mar.,  1846,  dan.  of  James  Hadley.     Issue: 

1st.     I.  Kate  Ross,  b.  1  Jan.,  1873;  d.  31  Oct.,  1874. 
2nd.     Georgianna,  b.  15  June,  1877,  in  Topeka,  Kan.;   graduate 
of  Smith  college  in  1899. 

3.  Horace,  b.  8  May,  1848;  d.  in  June,  1849. 

4.  Harvey  S.,  b.  22  Dec,  1852.     See  family  59. 

FAMILY    NO.    44. 
From  Familv  No.  21.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  William,  Charles  W. 

Charles  White  Brackett  was  born  June  8,  1822,  in  Littleton;  was 
a  merchant;  removed  to  Faribault,  Minn.;  returned  to  Littleton  to 
reside  where  he  died  January  1,  1891.  Married  November  18,  1846, 
Lucretia  Batchelder  born  March  12,  1827,  died  February  20,  1879, 
daughter  of  Otis  and  wife,  Lucretia  Labaree,  of  Littleton;  married 
(2nd)  Sarah  J.  Sullivan,  born  in  1858  in  Lisbon,  Portugal,  daugh- 
ter of  Richard  T.  Sullivan.     Issue: 

1.  Anna  Lauchlen,  b.  24  Dec,  1848;  is  a  teacher  in  St.  Mary's 
school  in  Concord,  N.  H. 

2.  Clara  Labaree,  b.  15  Nov.,  1850;  d.  16  Nov.,  1852. 

3.  Carrie  Adelia,  b.  4  Feb.,  1853;  mar.  4  Dec,  1884,  Henry  Mer- 
rill, b.  9  Aug.,  1837,  son  of  John  Merrill;  resides  in  Littleton;  he  is  a 
carriage  manufacturer,  was  a  representative  in  the  state  legislature  of 
Mass.,  in  1895-6.     Issue: 

1st.     Richard  Brackett,  b.  26  Sept.,  1886. 
2nd.     Margaret,  b.  15  Dec,  1889. 

4.  Henry  B.,  b.  25  Sept.,  1866.     See  family  60. 

FAMILY    NO.    45. 
From  Family  No.  22.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Cephas,  Cephas  H. 
Cephas  Henry  Brackett  was  born  January  19,  1826,  in  Brighton, 
Mass.;  was  a  farmer;  died  January  21,  1906,  in  Riverside,  Cal.;  mar- 


512  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ried  November  16,  1848,  Louisa  Thwing  Pierce,  born  February  15, 
1826,  died  November  13,  1896,  daughter  of  Horace  and  wife,  Sally 
Thwing,  of  Brighton.     Issue: 

1.  Dexter,  b.  3  Nov.,  1851,  in  Newton,  Mass.;  has  resided  in 
Boston  since  1872;  is  a  civil  engineer;  mar.  21  Sept.,  1875,  Josephine 
Dame,  b.  6  Apr.,  1853,  dau.  of  Warren  W.  and  wife,  Abigail  Rice,  of 
Brighton,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.  Herbert  Dexter,  b.  18  Sept.,  1876;  mar.  2  Sept.,  1901; 
Bessie  A.  Lockwood;  resided  in  Brighton;  later  in  Riverside,  Cal. 
Issue: 

I.     Dorothy  Andrea,  b.  24  Dec,  1903. 

FAMILY    NO.    46. 

From  family  No.   22.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Cephas,  Albert. 

Albert  Brackett  was  born  April  20,  1828;  resided  in  Newton, 
Mass.,  where  he  was  a  merchant;  married  October  20,  1859,  Mary 
Addie  Stone,  born  May  3,  1829,  daughter  of  Rufus  and  wife,  Adeline 
Guild,  of  Dee,  Mass.;  he  died  March  17,  1905,  in  Florence,  Italy. 
Issue: 

1.  Albert  Clinton,  b.  16  June,  i860;  mar.  29  June,  1897,  Florence 
S.  Hoogs.     Issue: 

1st.      Hamilton,  b.  17  May,  1892. 

2.  Arthur  Dewis,  b.  22  Apr.,  1862. 

3.  Winthrop  Stewart,  b.  29  Apr.,  1864;  mar.  27  Apr.,  1899,  Sadie 
E.  Shannon;   d.  23  Apr.,  1901. 

4.  Edwin  Raymond,  b.  8  Dec,  1874. 

FAMILY    NO.    47. 

From  Familv  No.  23.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Sewall,  William  H. 

William  Henry  Brackett  was  born  July  8,  1827,  in  Waterford, 
Vt.;  has  resided  in  Littleton,  N.  H.,  Fall  River,  Mass.,  and  Boston,  in 
which  last  place  he  now  resides;  was  a  bank  cashier,  is  now  retired; 
married  October  11,  1854,  Jane  Eliza  Fish,  born  May  19,  1832,  in 
Boston,  daughter  of  Henry  Hudson  Fish  and  wife,  Eliza  Ann  Glazier, 
of  Fall  River,  Mass.  Issue: 
p»1.     Sarah  Louisa,  b.  2  Jan.,  1856;  resides  in  Roxbury,  Mass. 

2.  Charles  Glazier,  b.  27  June,  1858;  mar.  Kate  Fullington  Hig- 
gins;  resides  in  Roxbury.     Issue: 

1st.     Anne  Louise,  b.  16  Apr.,  1885. 
2nd.     Charles  Henry,  b.  18  Jan.,  1887. 

3.  Foster  Hodges,  b.  9  Jan.,  1862;  mar.  Annie  Balch  Nason;  d. 
5  Jan.,  1900.      Issue: 

1st.     Jeannie  Nason,  b.  26  July,  1886. 
2nd.     Faustine  Craig,  b.  19  Apr.,  1889. 
3d.     Harold  Williams,  b.  18  Sept.,  1894. 

4.  Howard,  1).  11  Dec,  1868,  in  Boston,  where  he  resides;  is 
cashier  in  an  insurance  office. 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  513 

FAMILY    NO.   48. 

From  Family  No.  23.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Sewall,  Sewall  B. 

Sewall  Baldwin  Brackett  was  born  January  15,  1829,  in  Waterford, 
Vt.;  resided  in  Fall  River,  Mass.,  Baltimore,  Md.,  and  Jamaica  Plain, 
Mass.,  at  which  latter  place  he  died  of  heart  disease  October  13,  1869; 
married  November  30,  1854,  at  St.  Mary's  church  in  Dorchester, 
Mass.,  by  Rev.  Mr.  Edward  L.  Drowne,  to  Mary  Caroline  Richardson, 
born  May  5,  1831,  died  May  20,  1884,  at  her  residence  in  Jamaica 
Plain,  daughter  of  Robert  and  Lucretia  Badlam,  daughter  of  Edward 
and  wife,  Polly  Sharp;  Robert  Richardson  was  son  of  Robert  and  wife, 
Margaretta,  who  came  from  Kelso,  Scotland,  to  America  in  early 
married  life.     Issue: 

1.  Edward  Sharp,  b.  4  Sept.,  1855,  in  Fall  River,  Mass.;  d.  9 
A.ug.,  1857. 

2.  Harry  Baldwin,  b.  13  May,  1858,  in  Fall  River;  mar.  in  1882, 
Grace  Greenhouse  Wilkins,  dau.  of  Joseph  G.;  resides  in  Boston. 
Issue: 

1st.     Carleton  Richardson,  b.  13  Jan.,  1884,  in  Lexington,  Mass. 
."..     George  Richardson,  b.  8  Mar.,  i860,  in  Baltimore,  Md.;   mar.  5 
Now,   1885,   Lottie  Urann,   b.   30  Nov.,    1863,   in  Dorchester,  Mass., 
dau.  of  Ferdinand  and  wife,  Sarah  Gardner;  resides  in  Boston. 

4.  Willie  Chapin,  b.  6  Sept.,  1865,  in  Roxbury,  Mass.;  resides  in 
Boston. 

5.  Sewall  C,  b.  27  May,  1868.     See  family  61. 

FAMILY    NO.    49. 

From  Family  No.   23.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Sewall,  Franklin  B. 

Franklin  Bonney  Brackett  was  born  in  Waterford,  Vt.;  resided 
in  Boston  and  Fall  River,  Mass.;  died  in  December,  1882;  married 
Lucy  M.  Brown.     Issue: 

1.  Annie  Stewart,  b.  21  Aug.,  1856,  in  Fall  River,  Mass.;  mar. 
Harvey  S.  Brackett  (see  fam.  59,  this  div.) 

2.  Frank  H.,  b.  8  Apr.,  1859.     See  family  62. 

FAMILY    NO.    50. 

From  Family  No.  24.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Samuel  G.,  Samuel  A. 

Samuel  Augustus  Brackett  was  born  December  19,  1829,  in  St. 
Johnsbury,  Vt.;  resided  in  Boston  and  Roxbury,  Mass.,  at  which  lat- 
ter place  he  died  February  8,  1900;  was  a  wholesale  tea  merchant; 
married  February  19,  1856,  Rubie  N.  Robbins,  born  April  29,  1834, 
in  Cambridge,  Mass.,  daughter  of  Rev.  Gilbert  and  wife,  Love  L. 
Brackett  (see  fam.  7,  this  div.),  of  Keene,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Winfred  A.,  b.  27  Aug.,  1858;  resides  in  Roxbury. 

2.  Arthur  Jewett,  b.  2  July,  1863;  d.  4  Mar.,  1884. 

3.  Harry  Newell,  b.  11  Nov.,  1868;  mar.  14  Oct.,  1895,  Evaline 
Strauss;  resides  in  Roxbury,  Mass. 


514  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    51. 

From  Family  No.  24.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Samuel  G.,  Elmore  F. 
Elmore  Fairbanks  Brackett  was  born  May  26,  1839,  in  Waterford, 
Vt.;  is  a  physician  in  Boston;  has  resided  in  Littleton,  N.  H.,  Barnet 
and  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.,  and  Grafton,  Mass.  Married  (1st)  April  7, 
1863,  Harriet  M.  Chamberliu,  born  September  17,  1843,  in  Haverhill, 
N.  H.,  died  July  27,  1870,  in  Boston,  daughter  of  Charles  and  wife, 
Rosan  Hoskins,  of  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.;  (2nd)  October  1,  1889,  Mrs. 
Frances  H.  Page,  born  March  20,  1842,  in  Derby,  Nova  Scotia. 
Issue: 

1.  Hattie  May,  b.  4  May,  1868;  d.  4  May,  1868. 

2.  Hattie  Maria,  b.  27  July,  1870;   mar.   10  Nov.,  1901,  Alfred  P. 
Hall. 

FAMILY    NO.    52. 

From  Family  No.  25.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
John,  Samuel,  John  de  F. 
John  de  Forest  Brackett  was  born  in  1835,  in  St.  Albans,  Vt.;  a 
druggist  in  Kansas  city,  Mo.,  where  he  has  resided  since  1869;  mar- 
ried April  22,  1861,  Harriet  E.  Howard,  born  August  8,  1842,  daugh- 
ter of  Nathan  G.  and  wife,  Susan  Butterfield,  of  Rutland,  Vt.     Issue: 

1.  Edward    de   Forest,   b.    17    Oct.,    1862;    mar.    18    May,    1888, 
Minnie  E.  Radcliffe,  who  d.  5  June,  1905.     Issue: 

1st.     Margaret  Laura,  b.  28  June,  1898. 
2nd.     John  Radcliffe,  b.  9  Apr.,  1899. 

2.  Mary  Torrey,  b.  27  Dec,  1864. 

3.  Ernest  Howard,  b.  8  Oct.,  1867;  d.  in  June,  1869. 

FAMILY  NO.  53. 
From  Family  No.  25.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
John,  Samuel,  Aurick  S. 
Dr.  Aurick  Smith  Brackett  was  born  January  31,  1846,  in  St. 
Albans,  Vt.;  is  a  well  known  physician  and  surgeon  of  San  Francisco, 
Cal.;  a  graduate,  class  of  1882,  of  Electic  Medical  college,  of  New 
York  city.  Resided  in  Mechanicsville  and  Rutland,  Vt.,  Knoxville, 
Tenn.,  Kansas  city,  Mo.,  and  New  York  city  in  the  order  named. 
Served  in  civil  war  as  hospital  steward  in  8th  Vermont  volunteer 
infantry  from  December  19,  1863,  to  June  28,  1865.  Married  (1st)  in 
Knoxville,  Tenn.,  December  25,  1869,  Adelaide  Eavenia  de  Pue,  born 
November  9,  1845,  in  Branchville,  N.  J.,  died  April  8,  1896,  daugh- 
ter of  Joshua  de  Pue  and  wife,  Mary  Ann  Howell,  of  Branchville; 
(2nd)  November  25,  1902,  Mrs.  Dr.  Agnes  B.  Willcox,  of  San  Fran- 
cisco, born  in  Homer,  Courtland  county,  New  York.  Dr.  Brackett 
and  his  wife  are  interested  in  philanthropic  and  charitable  work;  she 
is  vice  president  of  "Indo- American  Educational  Propaganda,"  hav- 
ing for  its  object  the  benefiting  of  neglected  children  of  India.     Issue: 

1.  Ethel  C,  b.  in  1873;  mar.  6  Mar.,  1902,  Orrin  A.  Harthorn. 

2.  Sibyl,  b.  and  d.  in  1881. 

3.  Roy  de  Pue,  b.  in  1888,  in  San  Francisco,  Cal. 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  515 

FAMILY    NO.    54. 

From  Family  No.   27.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Solomon,  Josiah  P.,  Solomon  H. 

Solomon  Hoyt  Brackett  was  born  September  25,  1838,  in  Framing- 
ham,  Mass.  Began  preparation  for  college  at  high  school  in  Saxon- 
ville,  Mass.,  and  completed  at  Phillips  Exeter  academy,  fitting  for 
sophomore  year;  graduated  at  Harvard  college  in  1862,  and  received 
the  degree  of  A.  M.  in  regular  course;  taught  as  principal  in  high 
schools,  in  order  named,  in  East  Abington,  Provincetown,  Stoneham, 
Mt.  Woburn,  and  Lexington,  Mass.;  in  Keene,  N.  H.,  for  seven 
years;  was  appointed  in  1875,  teacher  of  science  in  St.  Johnsbury 
academy,  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.,  which  position  he  held  for  twenty-five 
years,  to  1900.  Witnessed  and  helped  on  a  great  change  in  teaching  of 
science,  specially  in  laboratory  methods;  has  constructed  a  great  deal 
of  apparatus,  has  kept  in  experimental  practical  touch  with  discoveries 
and  inventions;  needing  rest  he  resigned  in  1900  and  moved  to  Cali- 
fornia; taught  physics  and  chemistry  in  the  high  school  in  San  Berna- 
dino,  Cal.;  in  1903,  taught  chemical  and  physical  laboratory  work  in 
high  school  in  Redlands,  Cal. 

Married  July  21,  1864,  Mary  A.  Thomas,  born  March  30,  1837, 
daughter  of  Jedidiah  and  wile.  Abigail  Butler,  of  Framingham,  Mass. 
Issue: 

1.  Frank  Parkhurst,  b.  16  June,  1865;  was  educated  at  St.  Johns- 
bury academy  and  at  Dartmouth  college;  immediately  after  graduat- 
ing (1887)  he  went  to  California  and  for  six  months  was  connected 
with  the  McPherson  academy  in  Dos  Angeles,  Cal.;  from  there  went 
to  Pomona,  to  teach  a  preparatory  school  in  the  Congregational  church 
vestry;  out  of  the  school  grew  Pomona  college  in  which  he  is  one  of 
the  senior  professors;  in  1903,  took  a  post-graduate  course  in  higher 
mathematics  at  Clark  university,  Worcester,  Mass.;  higher  mathe- 
matics have  been  his  specialty.     Mar.  Ducretia  Burdick. 

2.  Mabel  Susan,  b.  20  Jan.,  1869;  mar.  5  July,  1892,  Charles 
Henry  Welch;  lived  in  Hardwick,  Vt.;  removed  to  Waterloo,  la. 
Issue: 

1st.     Mildred,  b.  3  Mar.,  1896. 

3.  Mary  Celeste,  b.  7  Aug.,  1874;   d.  22  Sept.,  1902. 

4.  John  Henry,  b.  17  Aug.,  1876;  in  1902  was  deputy  collector  of 
customs  in  Vermont. 

NINTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    55. 

From  Family  No.  15.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  George,  George  P.,  George  M. 

George  M.  Brackett  was  born  January  30,  1836,  in  Dynn,  Mass.; 
is  a  laborer  in  Middleboro,  Mass.;  married  June  17,  1867,  Hattie  Shaw, 
born  April  25,  1845,  daughter  of  Duther  Shaw  and  wife,  Mahala 
Smith.     Issue: 

1.  Carrie  M.,  b.  10  Aug.,  1868;  d.  27  Nov.,  1888. 

2.  Hattie  A.,  b.  25  Nov.,  1869;  d.  in  infancy. 

3.  Robert  M.,  b.  2^5  Oct.,  1870;  d.  in  infancy. 


516  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

4.  Hattie  S.,  b.  19  Dec,  1871;  mar.  7  May,  1894,  Harry  E.  Perry 
d.  11  May,  1895.  '  y' 

5.  Lillie  M.,  b.  25  June,  1874;  mar.  27  Apr.,  1894,  William  O. 
Maxim;  resides  111  Middleboro,  Mass.;  children,  Marian  Louise  b  17 
Apr.,  1897;  Hattie  Frances,  d.  2  Aug.,  1902.  '     ' 

6.  Grace  F.,  b.  3  Apr.,  1877. 

7\  ^ttSLCr;\h 6  Feb-'  l879;  mar-  x"  Julv>  1899,  John  M.  Kelly; 
resides  111  Middleboro;  children,  Albert  E.,  and  Margaret  E 

8.  Maud  E.,  b.  17  Jan.,  1882;  d.  6  May,  1895 

9.  Arthur  G.,  b.  1  May,  1887;  d.  3  Dec,  1887. 

FAMILY    NO.   56. 

From  Family  No.  32.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel 
Samuel,  Nathaniel,  Gilman,  Willard  G. 

Willard  Gilman  Brackett  was  born  August  1,  1845,  in  Newton 
Mass^  is  a  manufacturer  of  shoes  in  Newton,  where  he  resides.  Mar- 
ried October  7,  1884,  Fanny  E.  Breck,  born  November  9,  1859,  daugh- 
ter of  Charles  Henry  Bass  Breck  and  wife,  Frances  Augusta  Brown, 
of  Brighton  Mass.  Served  for  three  years  on  city  council  and  for  six 
years  on  school  board  in  Newton.     Issue: 

1.  Caroline  Russell,  b.  31  June,  1886. 

2.  Charles  Henry  Breck,  b.  24  Jan.,  1888. 

3.  Willard  Gilman,  Jr.,  b.  26  Feb.,  1893. 

4.  Eleanor,  b.  6  May,   1895. 

FAMILY   NO.    57. 

From  Family  No.  40.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
Samuel,  Charles  N.,  Gilbert  R.,  Richard  N. 
Richard  Newman  Brackett  was  born  September  14,  1863,  in  Rich- 
land county,  S.  C;   chemist;  is  an  A.  B.  of  Davidson  college,  N.  C 
and  a  Ph.  D    of  Johns  Hopkins  university,  Baltimore,  Md.;  from  1887 
to  1 89 1  was  chemist  to  Arkansas  geological  survey  and  since  1891  has 
been  assistant  professor  of  chemistry,   Clemson  Agricultural  college, 
Llemson,   S.  C;  married  June  6,    1889,   Bessie  Brandon  Craig,  born 
June  2,  1865.     Her  father,   Rev.   Dr.  John  Newton  Craig,  was  born 
May  14,    1831,   in  Rockingham  county,  Ya..  died  October  24,   1900 
m    JNevvport,    \a„    was  for  seventeen  years  secretary  of  the  Southern 
Presbyterian  general  assembly.     Her  mother,  Evdia  Brevard  Harris, 
was  born  April  5,  1841,   in  Cabarrus  county,  N.  C.     She  is  a  great- 
granddaughter  of   Colonel   Robert  Harris,  one   of  the  signers  of  the 
Mecklenburg  Declaration  of  Independence.     Issue: 

1.  Helen  Evans,  b.  19  Sept.,  1890. 

2.  Richard  Brandon,  b.  2  Nov..  1893;  d.  31  Jan.,  1898. 
6.     Newton  Craig,  b.  20  Jan.,  1895. 

FAMILY    NO.    58. 
From  Family  No.  43.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  William,  William  C,  William  R. 
William  Ross  Brackett  was  born  November  24,  1842,  in  Littleton, 
in.  n.,  was  a  railroad  passenger  agent,  now  retired;  resides  in  Ply- 


EBENEZER,    OF    DEDHAM  517 

mouth,  N.  H.;  married  May  13,  1868,  Ella  Stearns,  born  December 
15,  1850,  daughter  of  Wilbur  C.  and  wife,  Eucy  Reed,  of  Plymouth, 
N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Bessie  Stearns,  b.  3  Aug.,  1874;  d.  24  Aug.,  1874. 

2.  William  Cephas,  b.  15  Mar.,  1876;  d.  25  May,  1876. 

3.  Eucy  Stearns,  b.  23  June,  1879. 


FAMILY    NO.    59. 

From  Family  No.  43.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  William,  William  C,  Harvey  S. 

Harvey  Smith  Brackett  was  born  December  22,  1852,  in  Little- 
ton, N.  H.;  resided  in  Littleton  to  1867;  removed  to  Pasadena,  Cal., 
thence  to  Portsmouth,  N.  H.,  where  he  is  cashier  in  a  bank;  married 
January  31,  1883,  Anna  Stewart  Brackett,  daughter  of  Franklin  B.  and 
wife,  Lucy  Brown  (see  fam.  49,  this  div.)     Issue: 

1.  Ross  Dudley,  b.  17  Sept.,  1886,  in  Portsmouth,  N.  H. 

2.  William  Franklin,  b.  11  Aug.,  1888,  in  Portsmouth,  N.  H. 


FAMILY   NO.   60. 

From  Family  No.  44.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  William.  Charles  W.,  Henry  B. 

Henry  Batchelder  Brackett  was  born  September  25,  1866,  in  Lit- 
tleton, N.  H.;  resides  in  Boston  where  he  is  a  real  estate  broker;  mar- 
ried November  11,  1891,  Clara  Jenkins,  born  July  22,  1865,  daughter 
of  Samuel  R.  and  wife,  Sabra  Babbitt,  of  Brownington,  Vt.     Issue:. 

1.  Edwin  Labaree,  b.  1  Nov.,  1892. 

2.  Josephine  Edwards,  I).  15  Aug.,  1894. 


FAMILY    NO.    61. 

From  Family  No.  48.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  Ebenezer,  Samuel, 
William,  Sewall,  Sewall  B.,  Sewall  C. 

Sewall  Carroll  Brackett  was  born  May  27,  1868,  in  West  Rox- 
burv,  Mass.;  a  lawyer  in  Boston;  graduate  with  degree  of  A.  B.,  of 
Harvard  university,  class  of  1891;  graduate  with  degree  of  LE-  D., 
of  Boston  univers'ity,  class  of  1893;  admitted  to  practice,  October 
term,  1903,  Suffolk  county  (Mass.)  bar;  appointed  1905,  member  of 
Massachusetts  board  of  ballot  law  commissioners.  Married  Septem- 
ber 21,  1897,  Arline  Estill  Ladd,  born  December  2,  1875,  daughter  of 
George  A.  of  Thetford,  Vt.,  (descendant  in  seventh  generation  from 
Daniel  Ladd,  of  Haverhill,  Mass.)  and  wife,  Louise  H.  Porter, 
(descendant  in  seventh  generation  from  John  Porter,  of  Windsor, 
Conn.)      Issue: 

1.  Arline,  b.  8  Nov.,  1898. 

2.  James  E-,  b.  21  Jan.,  1900. 

3.  Helen  Eouise,  b.  4  Dec,  1905. 


518  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


FAMILY    NO.    62. 


From  Family  No.  49.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   Fbenezer,   Samuel 
William,  Sewall,  Franklin  B.,  Frank  H. 

Frank  Herbert  Brackett  was  born  April  8,  1859,  in  Fall  River 

Mass  ;  graduated  from  Harvard  in  the  class   with  John   Woodbury 

and  Theodore  Roosevelt;  led  and,  it  is  thought,  composed  the  music 

f «  Z  theT?ccaslolb-  resides  in  Wakefield,  Mass.     Married  1Z T 

Issue:        y          1CeS  LUCaS'  b0m  JanUary  "•  l86*>  in  Q^mL4: 

1.  Robert  Lucas,  b.  13  Feb.,  1897,  in  Boston. 

2.  Priscilla,  b.  23  Aug.,  1899,  in  Melrose,  Mass. 

3.  John  Woodbury,  b.  29  July,  1901,  in  Pittsfield,  Mass 

4.  Richard  Bonney,  b.  17  Sept.,  1902,  in  Pittsfield,  Mass 

5.  Theodore  Roosevelt,  b.  8  Nov.,  1904,  in  Woodburv,  N   J 


JOHN,    OF    DEDHAM  519 


DIVISION    NO.    19. 


JOHN    BRACKETT    OF    DEDHAM    AND     HIS 
DESCENDANTS. 


FOURTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  XI.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  John. 

Of  John  Brackett,  the  grandson  of  Richard,  we  know  little  more 
than  the  date  and  place  of  his  birth  and  where  he  lived;  he  was  born 
in  Billerica,  Mass.,  December  io,  1680.  Soon  after  his  father's  death 
his  mother  with  her  children,  removed  to  Dedham  where  her  parents 
resided;  he  lived  in  Dedham  until  his  death,  February  5,  1735;  fol- 
lowed farming  and  by  trade  was  a  turner;  his  wife's  Christian  name 
was  Rebecca;  her  surname  is  not  known.     Issue: 

1.  Rebecca,  b.  24  May,  1706;   d.  26  July,  170-. 

2.  Elizabeth,  b.  1  June,  1707;  d.  28  Dec,  1714. 

3.  John,  b.  14  July,  1710.      See  family  2. 

4.  Samuel,  b.  25  Feb.,  1712;  was  a  farmer  in  Stoughton,  Mass., 
where  he  d.  3  Feb.,  1799,  "age  87  years'';  mar.  (intention  published 
27  Aug.,  1737,)  '  *  ail  Stearns;"  was  insane  for  some  years  prior 
to  his  death  and  under  guardianship.     Issue: 

1st.  Abigail,  who  mar.  27  Mar.,  1763,  John  Belcher,  of  Dor- 
chester. 

2nd.  Samuel.  Was  sergeant  in  Capt.  Peter  Talbot's  co., 
Col.  Eemuel  Robinson's  regiment  which  marched  on  the  alarm  of 
19  Apr..  1775;  served  seven  days;  sergeant  in  Capt.  Simeon  Duck's 
co.,  Col.  Benjamin  Gill's  regiment;  marched  4  Mar.,  1776,  to 
fortify  Dorchester  Heights;  served  five  days;  private  in  Capt.  Robert 
Swan's  co..  Col.  Benjamin  Gill's  regiment;  marched  13  June,  1776, 
from  Stoughton  to  Squantum  (the  moon)  when  the  British  fleet 
left  Boston.  Mar.  Mrs.  Hannah  Clapp,  who  d.  about  1818;  was  a 
farmer  in  Stoughton;  d.  about  1809.     Issue: 

I.  John,  b.  5  Jan.,  1766;  mar.  (intention  published  4  Nov., 
1799,)  Lucy  Walker;  was  a  farmer  in  Stoughton;  d.  about  1809, 
shortly  before  his  father  d.;  widow  mar.  2  Sept.,  1810,  Coburn  Gay. 
Issue: 

a.  Samuel     .No  further  record. 

b.  Clarissa,  who  mar.  23  Sept.,  1824,  Thomas  Phillips. 

c.  Hannah,  who  was  unborn  at  the  time  of  her  father's 
death.  These  three  children  were  mentioned  in  their  grandfather's 
will,  proved  7  Mar.,  1809. 

5.  Benjamin,  b.  14  Oct.,  1725;   d.  29  July,  1730. 

6.  Sarah,  b.  2  July,  1727;  d,  25  July,  1730. 


520 


BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


FIFTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    2. 
Prom  Family  No.  i.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  John,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  July  14,  1710,  in  Dedham;  married  Sarah 
— ;  removed  to  Dudley.  Mass.,  about  1735.  On  October  16,  17,7 
wife  was  dismissed  by  church  in  Dedham  to  church  in  Dudley  but 
family  were  m  Dudley  at  an  earlier  period;  the  first  mention  of  his 
name  m  town  records  is  under  date  of  November  23,  1716  Was 
active  m  town  affairs;  chosen  fence  viewer  in  1738.  one  of  the  tvthin- 
men  in  r739  and  1743;  surveyor  of  highways  for  north  end  of  town  in 
1741,  1741  and  1745;  on  school  committee  in  1746  and  i7/i7-  mm- 
mi  tee  to  build  sehoolhouse  in  I748;  constable  in  x747  and  ^'g  one 
of  the  selectmen  tn  1749-53,  and  i755;  clerk  of  town  meeting  in  1752 
and  moderator  in  1754;  on  school  committee  in  1756.  Was  a  farmer 
estate  administered  in  1756.     Issue:  er' 

1.      Sarah,  1).  20  Alar.,  1733. 

-■      Mary,  b.  13  Apr.,  173^. 

•;-     John,  b.  15  Feb.,  1740.     See  family  3. 


SIXTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY  NO.    3. 
From  Family  No.  2.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  John,  John,  John 

John  brackett  was  born  February  15,  I74o,  i„  Dudley,  where  he 
lived  all  his  life;  a  farmer;  will  proved  in  1801.     Dike  his  father  was 

ThoM,,^::,:  c':,,,;, M;,r'' ,763;  mar- 8  Apr-  -^  Th°m-  o„nSby>  of 

2.      Rebecca,  b    18  Aug.,  i764;   never  mar.;   will  provecl  in  l86l. 
renoi  Dudley     5       "'  '76<5'  Perhaps  mar-  9  Ma>'-  l8oS'  Joh"  War- 

•*  aud^'abom  ,«£'  Se^  *  *"""  ''"  Dud1^  SU™red  his 
1st.      Lyman,  !».  9  Dec,  1795. 
-nd.      Lucinda.  1,.   19  May,  r8oi. 
;»-      Millieent.  b.  30  May,  1770 

«'-|J"'  Mav^^I^  WaSli™S»  «»■.   »-.  Phebe-  -, 
1st.      Phebe,  1,.  12  Mar.,  1811. 
'•     VaV,<1'  b-4May,  1774.     See  family  4. 
;s-     Asa  b.  3  Mar .,  1778.     See  family  5. 
■»•     Stephen,  b.  12  Nov.,  1780.     See  family  6 


JOHN,    OF    DEDHAM  521 

SEVENTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    4. 

From   Family  No.   3.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  John,   John,  John, 
David. 

David  Brackett  was  born  May  4,  1774,  in  Dudley;  funeral  held 
August  20,  1862,  in  Southbridge,  Mass.;  married  June  29,  1803,  in 
Dudley,  Patty  Hurd,  born  July  23,  1781,  died  July  4,  1822.     Issue: 

1.  Peter,  b.  20  May,  1804.     See  family  7. 

2.  Loren,  b.  7  Jan.,  1806.     See  family  8. 

3.  Eliza,  b.  5  Oct.,  1807;  mar.  Capt.  Devi  Bartlett. 

4.  David,  b.  27  May,  1809.     See  family  9. 

5.  Patty,  b.  26  Mar.,  181 1;   d.  6  Oct.,  1813. 

6.  Alouzo,  b.  1  Sept.,  1813;  d.  in  1853  in  Orange,  N.  J.;  was 
mar.  and  left  surviving  one  son,  Alonzo. 

7.  L/Orena,  b.  in  1816;  mar.  Dr.  Carpenter. 

8.  IyUcena,  b.  twin  with  Eorena;  d.  6  Jan.,  1833,  in  Oxford,  Mass. 

9.  Joseph,  b.  17  Sept.,  1818,  in  Dudley;  a  carpenter  and  contrac- 
tor; resided  in  Ashford,  Conn.,  Sturbridge  and  Southbridge,  Mass., 
and  East  Hadden,  Conn.,  where  he  d.  13  Feb.,  1888;  mar.  (1st) 
Adeline  Willis,  who  d.  1  June,  1859,  dau.  of  Silas  and  wife,  Eydia 
Slode,  of  Southbridge;  he  mar.  (2nd)  .     Issue: 

1st.  L.  Annie,  b.  13  May,  1854;  mar.  6  Jan.,  1895,  James  Scott, 
b.  29  Dec,  1842,  d.  19  July,  1897;  home,  in  Nashua,  N.  H.  No 
issue. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.   3.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  John,  John,  John, 
Asa. 

Asa  Brackett  was  born  March  3,  1778,  in  Dudley;  living  in  Web- 
ster in  1850;  will  proved  in  January,  1861;  married  Samantha  Perry; 
her  will  was  proved  in  January,  1877.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Betsey,  b.  21  Mar.,  1802;  mar.  (1st)  17  Mar.,  1824,  Danford 
Upham;    (2nd)  Day. 

2.  Mary,  b.  27  Mar.,  1805;  mar.  Seagraves. 

3.  Roxilany,  b.  15  Dec,  1807;  mar.  Thompson. 

4.  Huldah,  b.  about  181 5;   never  mar.;  will  proved  25  July,  1876. 

5.  Prince.     See  familv  10. 


FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From  Family  No.   3.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  John,  John,  John, 
Stephen. 

Stephen  Brackett  was  born  November  12,  1780,  in  Dudley; 
removed  to  Southbridge,  Mass.,  where  he  died  May  16,  1856;  was  a 
farmer,  later  a  manufacturer;  was  state  representative  and  selectman; 
married  April  10,  1803,  Fanny  Bates,  born  May  11,  1781,  died  in 
1855,  daughter  of  Elijah  and  wife,  Chloe  Tyler,  of  Thompson,  Conn. 
Issue: 

1.     Laban  Bates,  b.  22  Dec,  1803;  was  mar.  and  had  several  chil- 
dren;  d.  in  May,  1861. 


522  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2.  Almira,  1>.   17  Oct.,  1805;   never  mar.;   d.  in  Feb.,  1875. 

3.  Philaney,  b.  13  May,  1807. 

4.  Jurieu,  b.  3  Apr.,  1809;  was  mar.;  d.  in  Mar.,  1857. 

5.  Stephen,  b.  6  Nov.,  1810;  mar.;  had  two  daughters. 

(I.  Crawford,  b.  27  May,  1812;  a  farmer;  d.  in  Nov.,  1864,  in  Hol- 
land, Mass.;  resided  in  Sturbridge  and  Southbridge;  mar.  8  Aug., 
[836,  Annis  Blodgette,   1).   28  Feb.,   1813,   d.    10  May,    1890,   dau.  of 

Roswell  and  wife,  Morfett.     Issue: 

Lst.  Merrick,  b.  30  Aug.,  1838,  in  Sturbridge;  a  spectacle-maker 
in  Southbridge;  mar.  4  Apr.,  1882,  Margaret  Johnson,  b.  19  Oct., 
[852,  is  dec,  dan.  of  Robert  and  wife,  Mary  Allen.     No  issue. 

7.  Elizabeth,  b.  17  Jan.,  1815;  mar.  Blodgett;  d.  in  Nov.,  1859; 
children,  John,  who  is  dec;  Edward,  resides  in  Springfield;  Henry, 
resides  in  Brookfield,  Mass. 

8.  Ebenezer  Tyler,  b.  29  Nov.,  1815;  never  mar.;  was  a  soldier 
in  the  vol.  army  in  the  War  witli  Mexico;   killed  in  Jan.,  1848. 

9.  Fanny  Ann.  b.  2  Sept.,  1817;  mar.  Plimpton;  d.  in  Dec,  1880; 
children.  Jennie;   Chloe;   Sarah;   Evelyn;   George;   Ira;   Willie. 

10.  George,  b.  1  Oct.,  1820.      See  family  11. 

11.  Sarah  Crosby,  b.  1  Aug.,  1822;  was  mar.  and  had  two  chil- 
dren, one  a  son,  Charles  Barlow;  d.  in  Mar.,  1862. 


EIGHTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  John,  John,  John, 
David,  Peter. 

Peter  Brackett  was  born  May  20,  1804;  died  May  16,  1878;  a 
farmer;  married  January  14,  1830,  Polly  LTpham,  born  August  18, 
1805,  died  May  9,  1878,  daughter  of  Nathan  and  wife,  Mary  Robbius, 
of  Dudley;  he  was  also  of  Dudley,  was  born  there  June  8,  1763,  died 
November  6,  1.S47,  was  son  of  Joseph;  he  was  of  Dudley,  was  born  in 
1 71 2,  in  Reading,  Mass.,  died  October  12,  1792,  married  (2nd)  Feb- 
ruary 28,  1739,  Elizabeth  Richardson  (born  1715,  granddaughter  of 
Samuel,  of  Woburn  )  was  son  of  Thomas;  he  was  of  Reading,  was  born 
in  1688,  in  Maiden,  died  November  26,  1735;  married  (3d)  Ruth 
.Smith  (widow  of  John  of  Charlestown,  Mass.,  born  in  1688,  daughter 
of  Thomas  Cutler  of  Reading,  a  descendant  of  John  of  Hingham, 
Mass.,  she  died  May  17,  1758),  was  son  of  Phineas;  he  was  born  in 
1635,  in  Weymouth,  Mass.,  married  April  14,  1658,  Ruth  Wood  (born 
about  1636,  died  January  18,  1696),  died  in  October,  1676,  was  son  of 
John;  he  was  born  in  1600,  in  England,  came  to  America  in  1635, 
married  Elizabeth  (probably  Webb)  and  died  February  26,  1681. 
Issue: 

1.  Alonzo,  b.  3  Apr.,  1831;  d.  in  1832. 

2.  Marcus,  b.  31  Aug.,  1838;  mar.  29  Apr.,  1866,  S.  Eouise 
Goodell;  d.  23  Mar.,  1894. 

3.  Sidney,  b.  20  Sept.,  1844,  in  Dudley,  Mass.;  a  locomotive 
engineer;  home,  in  Nashua,  N.  H.;  resided  in  Webster,  Oxford,  and 
Worcester,  Mass.,  in  the  order  named;  served  as  a  private  during  the 
civil   war    for   nine    months   in   co.   G.,    51st  Mass.    vol.    inf.       Mar. 


JOHN,    OF    DEDHAM  523 

30  Dec,  1876,  Mrs.  Ellen  M.  Pettee,  b.  26  Apr.,  1845,  dau.  of  L,oren 

Brackett  (see  fam.  8,  this  div.)  and  wife,  Mary  Reed.  Issue: 

1st.     Sidney  Francis,  b.  18  Oct.,  1884;  d.  20  Oct.,  1884. 


FAMILY    NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  John,  John,  John, 
David,  Loren. 

Loren  Brackett  was  born  January  7,  1806,  in  Dudley;  removed 
to  Canton,  Mass.,  where  he  died  February  25,  1885;  was  a  dyer. 
Married  August  6.  1827,  Mary  Reed,  who  died  February  25,  1885. 
Issue: 

1.  Olive  B.,  b.  12  July,  1829;  mar.  (1st)  A.  Scott;  (2nd)  J. 
Handy;  had  dau.  Sarah  who  mar.  Bates,  and  dau.  Addie  who  mar. 
Gano;  both  daughters  live  in  Modesto,  Cal. 

2.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  6  Mar.,  1831;  mar.  L,.  L.  Chamberlain;  had 
dau.  Ella  who  mar.  Morse  and  resides  in  Foxboro,  Mass. 

3.  Loren  R.,  b.  23  Nov.,  1833;  mar.  Lydia  D.  Fulerton;  served  in 
co.  E,  35th  Mass.  vol.  inf.;  enlisted  19  Aug.,  1862,  d.  of  wounds  10 
Nov.,  1862,  in  Frederick,  Md.     Issue: 

1st.     Arthur  W. 

4.  David  Alonzo,  b.  25  June,  1835;  d.  at  age  of  ten  years. 

5.  Sarah  Amanda,  b.  25  June,  1837;  mar.  H.  Gardner;  is  living 
in  Modesto,  Cal. 

6.  Francis  A.,  b.  13  Aug.,  1838.     See  family  12. 

7.  Harriet  A.,  b.  16  Jan.,  1841;  mar.  Spencer  Billings;  resides  in 
Stoughton,  Mass. 

8.  Emma  A.,  b.  23  Jan.,  1843;  mar.  W.  F.  Robinson;  son  Charles 
lives  in  Lynn,  Mass. 

9.  Ellen  M.,  b.  26  Apr.,  1845;  mar.  (1st)  H.  A.  Pettee;  (2nd) 
Sidney  Brackett  (see  fam.  7,  this  div.) 

10.  Idaetta  A.,  b.  26  May,  1848;  mar.  Devi  Minot;  resides  in 
Franklin,  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,   John,  John,  John,  John, 
David,  David. 

David  Brackett  was  born  May  27?  1809,  in  Dudley;  a  dyer  in 
Thompson;  died  July  16,  1875;  married  April  2,  1834,  Ilura  B. 
Chaffee,  born  December  11,  1807,  died  August  30,  1901,  daughter  of 
Devi  and  wife,  Nancy  Blackamore,  of  Thompson.     Issue: 

1.  Daniel,  b.  5  Dec,  1836;  mar.  28  Aug.,  1872,  Mary  C.  Eddy; 
d.  9  Mar.,  1875. 

2.  Charles  E.,  b.  13  Mar.,  1840.     See  family  13. 

3.  Marilla,  b.  19  Mar.,  1843;  mar.  30  June,  1892,  Adfin  G.  Smith; 
d.  27  Oct.,  1893. 

4.  Danford,  b.  16  Feb.,  1845;  d.  2  Sept.,  1848. 


524  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 
From   Family  No.   5.     Descent:     Richard,  John,   John,   John,  John, 
Asa,  Prince. 

Prince  Bracket*  resided  in  Webster;  married  Mary  P.  ;  will 

proved  in  March,  1881.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Frances  W.,  b.  about  1837. 

2.  Cornelia  T.,  b.  about  1840;   mar.  28  June,  1879,  Joseph  Higgins. 

3.  George  L,. 

4.  Salina,  who  mar.  Smith. 

5.  Mary  F.,  who  mar.  Nichols. 
(I.      Sarah  A.,  who  mar.  Goff. 

FAMILY  NO.  11. 
From  Family  No.  6.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  John,  John,  John, 
Stephen,  George. 
George  Brackett  was  born  October  1,  1820,  in  Dudley,  now  Web- 
ster; removed  to  Southbridge,  later  lived  in  Sturbridge  and  from  there 
returned  to  Southbridge  where  he  died  in  December,  1902;  was  a 
manufacturer;  drafted  to  serve  during  the  civil  war  but  failed  to  pass 
physical  examination;  married  (1st)  January  20,  1848,  Mary  E. 
McKiustry,  born  January  6,  1830,  died  April  21,  1862,  daughter  of 
Silas  and  wife,  Matilda  Marcy,  of  Sturbridge;  (2nd)  in  November, 
1867,  Frances  L,.  Darling,  born  September  5,  1838,  daughter  of  Elijah 
and  wife,  Naomi  Prince  Morse,  of  Charlestown,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.  George  Wirt,  b.  14  Sept.,  1868;  d.  24  Aug.,  1869. 

2.  Warren  Wirth,  b.  24  Mar.,  1870;   d.  8  Mar.,  1888. 

3.  Hayes  Jurieu,  b.    16  Sept.,    1876;   mar.  in  Oct.,  1898,   Marian 
Bickerstaffe;  resides  in  Southbridge.     Issue: 

1st.     Marjorie  Viola,  b.  1  Oct.,  1899. 

4.  Haven  Darling,  b.  16  Sept.,  1876;  resides  in  Southbridge;  sup- 
plied data  relative  to  descendants  of  his  grandfather. 

NINTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY  NO.  12. 
From  Family  No.  8.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  John,  John,  John, 
David,  Loren,  Francis  A. 
Francis  Addison  Brackett  was  born  August  13,  1838,  in  Canton, 
Mass.;  is  a  farmer  in  Corning,  Cal.;  removed  there  in  1906  from  North 
Yakima,  Wash.;  formerly  resided  in  Stoughton,  Mass.,  Morgan,  Vt., 
Sharon,  Mass.,  in  the  order  named;  served  in  civil  war  as  private  in 
company  F,  1st  Massachusetts  volunteer  infantry,  from  May  24  to 
November  8,  1861.  Married  (1st)  August  11,  1868,  Maria  Drake, 
born  September  6,  1835,  died  June  26,  1872,  daughter  of  Elijah;  he 
was  of  Sharon,  Mass.,  was  born  May  30,  1783,  died  June  21,  1841, 
married  May  25,  1815,  Charlotte  Cobb  (born  December  14,  1792,  died 
April  6,  1876,  daughter  of  Nathan  and  wife,  Mercy  Briggs,  of  Taun- 
ton, Mass.),  was  son  of  Archippus;  he  was  born  April  3,  1753,  died 
June  20,  1826,  married  May  14,  1779,  Mary  Holmes  (of  Stoughton, 
born  March  3,  1759,  died  March  11,  1816,  daughter  of  Philip  and 
wife,  Mary  Waters),  lived  in  Stoughton,  was  son  of  John;  he  wras  born 


JOHN,    OF    DEDHAM  525 

December  13,  171 1,  died  June  21,  1804,  married  December  22,  1747, 
Mary  Cole  (born  June  17,  1731,  died  February  3,  1828),  was  son  of 
Benjamin;  he  was  born  January  15,  1677,  in  Weymouth,  Mass.,  was 
living  in  August,  1759,  married  Sarah  Pool  (born  about  1678,  died  in 
Easton,  Mass.,  December  24,  1775,  daughter  of  Samuel,  of  Wey- 
mouth) was  son  of  Thomas;  he  was  born  in  Colyton,  Devon  county, 
Eng.,  baptized  September  13,  1635,  came  to  America  in  1653-4,  set" 
tied  in  Weymouth,  died  in  1691,  first  wife  was  Jane  Holbrook  (daugh- 
ter of  Thomas  and  wife,  Jane ),  was  son  of  William,  Esq.;  he  was 

of  Yardbury  in  Colyton,  will  dated  November  2,  1636,  married  Novem- 
ber 1,  1620,  Margaret  Westover  (daughter  of  William,  date  of  burial 
April  16,  1635).  Married  (2nd)  January  1,  1881,  Annie  M.  Kelsey, 
born  January  7,  1857,  daughter  of  William  and  wife,  Elizabeth  J. 
Harney,  of  Morgan,  Vt.     Issue: 

1.  Elijah  W.,  b.  9  Apr.,  1869.     See  family  14. 

2.  Elmer  M.,  b.  12  Dec,  1881;  resides  in  Corning,  Cal. 
.3.     Frances  M.,  b.  24  Mar.,  1883;  d.  28  Apr.,  1884. 

4.  Mary  E.,  b.    16  Mar.,    1885;  mar.   24  Nov.,  1904,  Kirkham   P. 
Dooley;  home,  in  North  Yakima,  Wash.     Issue: 

1st.     Gladys  J.  C,  b.  4  Nov.,  1905. 

5.  Adrain  A.,  b.  16  Feb.,  1887. 
(i.     Percy  E.,  b.  24  Sept.,  1894. 

7.     Peter  D.,  b.  twin  with  Percy  E. 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 
From  Family  No.  9.     Descent:     Richard,  John,  John,  John,  John, 
David,  David,  Charles  E. 

Charles  E.  Brackett  was  born  March  13,  1840,  in  Thompson;  fin- 
isher of  woolen  goods;  now  a  resident  of  Webster,  Mass.;  formerly 
resided  in  Dudley;  married  January  29,  1867,  Cynthia  A.  Wakefield, 
born  March  3,  1845,  daughter  of  Leonard  and  wife,  Huldah  Gleason, 
of  Webster.     Issue: 

1.  Ilura  Myrtle,  b.   13  Nov.,  1867;  mar.  15  Feb.,  1887,  Lester  S. 
Butler;  home,  in  Webster.     Issue: 

1st.     Myrtle  Alynna,  b.  24  Oct.,  1887. 

2.  Clara  Florena,  b.  20  July,  1873;  home,  in  Webster. 

3.  Charles  Edwin,  b.  8  Nov.,  1875;  d.  15  Aug.,  1876. 


TENTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  12.  Descent:  Richard,  John,  John,  John,  John, 
David,  Loren,  Francis  A.,  Elijah  W. 
Elijah  W.  Brackett  was  born  April  9,  1869,  in  Sharon,  Mass.;  is 
a  farmer  in  North  Yakima,  Wash.,  where  he  has  resided  since  1891; 
attended  school  in  Sharon;  married  February  21,  1900,  Ida  H.  Car- 
rosso,  born  November  12,  1882,  daughter  of  Robert  G.  and  wife,  Jessie 
M.  Dary,  of  Flushing,  Cornwall  county,  Eng.,  now  of  North  Yakima. 
Issue: 

1.  Eeroy  William  Carrosso,  b.  16  Mar.,  1901. 

2.  Cecil  Francis  Drake,  b.  19  Apr.,  1905. 


526  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


DIVISION   NO.   20. 


JOSEPH     BRACKETT   OF    BRAINTREE    AND    HIS 
DESCENDANTS. 


FOURTH   GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  XI.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Joseph. 

Joseph  Brackett,  a  grandson  of  Captain  Richard,  was  born  in 
Boston,  on  November  5,  1675;  on  the  records  of  the  Third  church  of 
Boston  is  chronicled  that  he  was  born  on  that  date.  Mr.  Richardson 
gave  August  9,  1675,  as  the  date  of  his  birth.  He  was  probably  a 
Boston  boy  until  he  reached  the  age  of  eight  years  when,  in  16S3,  his 
father  returned  to  Braintree  to  live.  At  the  time  Captain  Richard 
was  the  only  male  person  living  in  the  town,  or  who  had  lived  in  it 
since  the  departure  of  his  son  James  in  1673,  bearing  the  name  of 
Brackett.  His  sous  John  and  Peter  settled  in  Billerica,  1660,  and  his 
son  Josiah  followed  them  about  1673.  James,  who  was  to  inherit  the 
parental  estate  in  Braintree,  returned  there  to  dwell;  from  the  time 
thereof  until  his  death  in  1718,  a  period  of  thirty-five  years,  he  was  a 
continuous  resident  of  Braintree.  Though  the  youngest  of  Captain 
Richard's  sons  he  was  given  nearly  all  of  his  father's  estate  in  Brain- 
tree, where  was  situated  the  far  greater  portion  of  it.  This  estate  he 
equitably  divided  between  his  sons  Joseph  and  Nathan. 

Joseph  Brackett  lived  continuously  in  Braintree  from  1682  until 
his  death  at  an  advanced  age.  He  was  a  good  farmer,  carefully  pre- 
served and  added  to  what  he  received  from  his  father  and  was  able  to 
leave  his  sons  a  good  competence.  Unlike  his  father  and  his  grand- 
father, he  did  not  hold  town,  military  or  church  office;  hardly  a  men- 
tion of  his  name  is  contained  in  the  town  records.  It  is  inferred  that 
he  was  of  a  retiring  disposition,  was  well  disposed  to -attend  to  his  pri- 
vate affairs  and  delegate  to  others  his  interest  in  town  matters,  who 
had  a  taste  for  such. 

Between  the  time  of  his  marriage  and  the  time  when  he  had 
reached  military  age,  there  had  been  five  years  of  warfare  with  the 
Indians.  Scarcely  had  he  been  married  when  war  with  the  French 
and  Indians  commenced,  which  lasted  a  dozen  years.  Without  doubt 
he  was  a  well  trained  soldier,  but,  perhaps,  saw  little  active  service, 
unless  he  volunteered  to  go  on  an  expedition  against  Canada,  as 
Braintree  was  a  safe  distance  from  the  frontier  and  not  liable  to  attack. 
In  truth  the  town  records  disclose  little  concerning  him  further  than 
that  in  1709,  he  voted  against  division  of  the  town  and  that  in  1731,  he 
paid  £15  for  a  pew  in  the  new  church. 

Married  Mehitable  Belcher  on  December  25,  1701,  as  the  town 
records  show.  Mr.  Richardson  gives  the  date  of  marriage  as  January 
25,  1 701.  She  was  born  in  Braintree  on  September  12,  1676,  was 
daughter  of  Moses  and  wife,  Mary  Nash;  he  was  perhaps  son  of  John 
Belcher  and  wife,  Sarah.      Issue,  all  born  in  Braintree: 


JOvSEPH,    OF    BRAINTREE  527 

1.  Mehitable,  b.  13  Oct.,  1702;  bapt.  2  June,  1703;  mar.  11  Apr., 
1734,  Nathan  Spear,  of  Quincy,  b.  10  Aug.,  1703,  son  of  Nathan  and 
wife,  Hannah;  resided  in  Braintree;  children,  Nathan,  b.  1  July,  1735; 
Jacob,  b.  23  Jan.,  1737;  Mehitable,  b.  25  Feb.,  1739,  mar.  Ebenezer 
Adams;   Alice,  b.  in  1741,   mar.  Samual  Bass. 

2.  Joseph,  b.  6  May,  1705;  d.  10  Feb.,  1710. 

3.  Richard,  b.  ir  Sept.,  1707;  mar.  (1st)  6  Dec,  1733,  Lydia  Spear, 
d.  6  Apr.,  1754,  sister  of  Nathan;  mar.  (2nd)  Mary  Glidden;  in  1751, 
he  resided  in  Boston;   estate  administered  in  1759.     Issue: 

1st.  Lydia,  b.  26  Oct.,  1734;  supposed  to  have  mar.  John  Bow- 
ditch. 

2nd.  Richard,  b.  11  July,  1736;  mar.  14  Feb.,  1775,  Mary  Burt. 
No  further  record. 

3d.     Thomas,  b.  24  Oct.,  1738;  never  mar. 

4th.     Mary,  b.  23  Nov.,  1742;  d.  young. 

5th.     Mercy,  b.  4  Jan.,  1756.     See  division  21,  family  2. 

6th.      Mehitable,  b.  23  Jan.,  1757;  mar.  James  Thayre,  Jr. 

4.  Alice,  b.  28  Feb.,  1709;  mar.  17  Mar.,  1736,  John  Beal. 

5.  Hannah,  b.  14  Feb.,  1712;  mar.  12  May,  1 731,  Benjamin  Crane 
of  Milton,  Mass;  children,  Daniel,  d.  in  1822;  Benjamin,  bapt.  2  May, 
1741. 

6.  Joseph,  b.  27  Feb.,  1715.     See  family  2. 

7.  Moses,  b.  5  Feb.,  1717.     See  family  3. 

8.  Mary,  b.  23  Feb.,  1723;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1755,  Benjamin  Bass  of 
Quincy,  1).  in  1719,  d.  24  Sept.,  1808;  children,  John,  b.  19  Jan.,  1756; 
Mary,  b.  19  Sept.,  1758;  Hannah,  b.  16  June,  1760;  all  d.  in  old  age 
and  unmar. 


FIFTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Joseph,  Joseph. 

Joseph  Brackett  was  born  February  27,  1715,  in  Braintree;  mar- 
ried Mary  — =— .  Enlisted  May  30,  1759,  in  Colonel  Benjamin  Lin- 
coln's regiment;  was  in  army  under  command  of  General  Jeffrey 
Amherst,  for  invasion  of  Canada;  at  time  of  enlistment  was  forty-four 
years  of  age;  also  served  in  1758,  in  French  and  Indian  war.  Was  a 
farmer  in  Braintree.     Issue: 

1.  Joseph,  bapt.  12  June,  1743.     See  family  4. 

2.  Alice,  b.  11  Sept.,  1745. 

3.  Sarah,  mar.  3  Nov.,  1764.  Thomas  Belcher. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 
From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Joseph,  Moses. 

Moses  Brackett  was  born  February  5,  171 7,  in  Braintree;  married 

(1st)  Jones;  (2nd)  intention  published  July  6,  1759,  Sarah  Jones, 

sister  of  Samuel  Jones,  Jr.,  of  Nantasket;  (3d)  Mary  Bickershed, 
daughter  of  Benjamin  and  wife,  Dorothy  Veasy,  died  in  1805;  always 
lived  in  Braintree;  was  a  farmer;  captain  in  one  of  the  local  militia 
companies;  died  July  24,  1793.     Issue: 


528  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Elizabeth,  b.  24  Nov.,  1749;  mar.  29  Sept.,  1 771,  Deacon  Sam- 
uel Bass,  4th,  d.  1-5  Jan.,  1828,  son  of  Samuel  and  wife,  Sarah  Rawson; 
resided  in  Braintree,  Vt.;  children,  William,  who  mar.  Abigail  Neff; 
Samuel,  who  mar.  Polly  Belcher;  Moses,  who  mar.  Mehitable  Herrick; 
Peter;   Seth;   Hiram;   Betsey;   Sally;   Anna. 

2.  Moses,  b.  about  1 75 1 ;  never  mar.;  was  private  in  Capt.  John 
Hall,  Jr.'s  co.,  Col.  Benjamin  Lincoln's  regiment,  which  assembled 
19  Apr.,  1775;  served  7  days;  co.  reported  to  have  assembled  29  Apr., 

1775.  A  private  in  Capt.  Seth  Turner's  First  Independent  co.; 
enlisted  8  May,  1775,  and  served  for  eight  months  and  thirteen  days; 
was  in  expedition  against  Quebec  under  Gen.  Arnold  and  was  taken 
prisoner.     Served  as  private  in  same  co.  from  1  Jan.,  1776,  to  22  May, 

1776.  Served  as  corporal  in  Capt.  Edmund  Billings'  co.,  Col.  Jon- 
athan Bass'  regiment;  co.  assembled  13  June,  1776,  to  drive  the 
British  from  Boston  Harbor;  five  days'  service.  Served  as  private  in 
Capt.  Eliphalet  Sawin's  co.,  Colonel  Mcintosh's  regiment;  enlisted 
25  Mar.,  1778,  discharged  7  Apr.,  1778;  13  days  at  Roxbury.  Also 
served  as  private  in  Capt.  Esias  People's  co.,  Col.  Jacob  Gerrish's 
regiment  of  guards;  marched  2  Apr.,  1778;  served  to  July  3,  1778,  at 
Winter  Hill;  co.  detached  from  militia.  Resided  in  Braintree;  d. 
21  Apr.,  1826. 

3.  Peter,  b.  18  Nov.,  1753.     See  family  5. 

4.  Sarah,  b.  3  May,  1756;   d.  young. 

5.  Mehitable,  b.  14  Oct.,  1759;  mar.  in  1797,  Samuel  Nightengale; 
d.  20  Nov.,  1836;  children,  Samuel;  Thomas  J.,  who  mar.  21  Aug., 
1825,  Alice  Brackett  (see  fam.  6.). 

6.  Mary,  b.  1  Jan.,  1758;   mar.  John  Nightengale.     No  issue. 

7.  Sarah,  b.  7  May,  1761;  mar.  Ebenezer  Nightengale;  children, 
Charles,  b.  in  1784,  d.  in  185-;  George,  who  mar.  Spear;  Solomon,  b. 
in  17S8,  mar.  Green;  Asa,  bapt.  in  1790,  d.  in  1858;  Moses,  mar.  Me- 
hitable Green;  Ebenezer,  b.  in  July,  179-;  Sarah,  who  mar.  Lewis 
Bass;   L,ewis,  b.  26  Aug.,  1804,  never  mar. 

8.  Frances,   d.  young. 

9.  Frances,  mar.  John  Nightengale;  (2nd)  Seth  Spear;  children, 
John,  b.  about  1784;  Josiah,  mar.  Crane;  Abigail,  b.  in  1789;  Frances, 
mar.  Torrey;  Joanna,  mar.  William  Torrey,  d.  in  1859;  James,  b. 
in  1795. 

10.  Abigail,  b.  17  Jan.,  1768;   d.  young. 

11.  Joanna,  b.  29  Sept.,  1 77 1 ;  mar.  26  Sept.,  1790,  Seth  Burrill; 
d.  in  Quincy.      No  issue. 


SIXTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    4. 

From   Family   No.    2.     Descent:     Richard,   James,   Joseph,   Joseph, 
Joseph. 

Joseph  Brackett  was  baptized  June  12,  1743,  in  Braintree.  En- 
listed as  a  private  in  Captain  John  Hall,  Jr.'s  (1st)  company,  Colonel 
Palmer's  regiment;  company  assembled  March  4,  1776;  served  fifteen 
days  in  Rhode  Island.  Also  served  as  first  lieutenant  in  Captain 
Joseph   Baxter's   company,    Colonel    Ebenezer   Thayer's   third    (5th 


JOSEPH,    OF    BRAINTREE  529 

Suffolk  county)  regiment;  list  of  Massachusetts  militia,  July  8,  1777; 
commissioned  July  17,  1777.  Also  served  as  a  private  in  Captain 
Eliphalet  Sawin's  company,  Colonel  William  Mcintosh's  regiment; 
enlisted  March  25,  1778;  discharged  April  7,  1778.  Served  thirteen 
days  with  guards  at  Roxbury.  Later  he  was  captain  of  a  militia  com- 
pany in  Braintree,  and  when  war  was  imminent  with  France  in  1799, 
his  company  was  ready  for  muster.  Married  July  2,  1767,  Rachel 
Marsh,  born  August  12,  1746,  died  August  4,  18 18,  daughter  of 
Moses  and  wife,  Sarah;  Moses  was  born  January  I,  17 13,  was  son  of 
John  and  wife,  Sarah;  John  was  born  February  17,  1678,  died  June 
22,  1745,  was  son  of  Lieutenant  Alexander  and  wife,  Mary;  Lieuten- 
ant Alexander  died  March  7,  1698.  Captain  Joseph  Brackett  died 
November  18,  1821.     Issue: 

1.  Rachel,  b.  8  May,  1768;  mar.  in  1797,  Henry  Hardwick  of 
Quiucy;  d.  about  1835.     No  issue. 

2.  Alice,  b.  31  May,  1772;  d.  young. 

3.  Joseph,  b.  18  Aug.,  1776.     See  family  6. 

FAMILY    NO.    5. 
From    Family    No.    3.     Descent:     Richard,    James,    Joseph,    Moses, 
Peter. 

Peter  Brackett  was  born  November  18,  1753,  in  Braintree;  served 
in  the  War  of  the  Revolution;  was  sergeant  in  Captain  John  Hall,  Jr.'s 
( 1st)  company,  Colonel  Palmer's  regiment;  company  assembled  March 

4,  1776;  served  fifteen  days  in  Rhode  Island.  Also  was  private  in 
Captain  Edmund  Billings'  company,  Colonel  Jonathan  Bass'  regiment; 
company  assembled  June  13,  1776,  to  drive  British  from  Boston  har- 
bor; served  two  days.  Later  was  captain  of  a  militia  company  in 
Quincy.     Married  Betsey  Grace  Shepherd,  born  in  1771,  died  October 

5,  1 83 1,  will  proved  November  1,  1831.  Captain  Brackett  died  in 
Quincy,  January  3,  1827.     Issue: 

1.  Mary  Preble,  b.  about  1799;  mar.  J.  Adams,  b.  1792,  d.  — 
Oct.,  1825;  (2nd)  Josiah  Glover;  children,  Emma  and  Henry  Alex- 
ander. 

2.  Moses,  bapt.  2  June,  1801,  in  Dedham;  living  in  1831;  unmar. 

3.  Seth  B.,  bapt.  11  Sept.,  1803,  in  Dedham;  d.  8  Feb.,  1830. 

4.  Peter,  b.  31  Oct.,  1804.     See  family  7. 


SEVENTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From   Family   No.    4.     Descent:     Richard,    James,    Joseph,    Joseph, 
Joseph,  Jossph. 
Joseph   Brackett  was  born   August    18,    1776;   lived   in    Quincy 
where  he  died  in   1846;   married  June  21,  1801,  Charlotte  Newcomb, 
of  Quincy,  born  in  1782,  died  June  8,  1852.     Issue: 

1.  Alice,  b.  in  July,  1802;  mar.  in  1825,  Thomas  J.  Nightengale 
of  Quincv;  d.  28  Apr.,  1854;  children,  Thomas  B.,  b.  5  Dec,  1825; 
Maria  J.,' b.  21  Jan.,  1829;  Alvira  A.,  b.  29  Mar.,  1831;  William,  b.  17 
May,  1835;  Samuel  A.,  b.  30  Sept.,  1837;  Etta  Frances,  b.  5  Apr., 
1840;   Augustus  F.,  b.  11  Nov.,  1843. 


530  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

2.  Jane,  b.  in  June,  1804;  mar.  1  July,  1830,  Enoch  Sweet  of 
Bradford,  N.  H.;  resided  in  South  Danvers,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Priseilla,  b.  1  Apr.,  1831;   mar.  Henry  J.  Marshall. 

2nd.     William  L-,  b.  14  Oct.,  1833;  mar.  Caroline  P.  Witherbee. 

3d.     Eliza  J.,  b.  14  Dec,  1836;  mar.  19  Mar.,  1857,  Morrill. 

4th.     Horace  M.,  b.  29  Apr.,  1841. 
5th.     Enoch  L-,  b.  1  Aug.,  1843. 

3.  Charlotte,  b.  1  Mar.,  1807;  mar.  (1st)  in  1826,  Capt.  Enoch 
Lake,  who  d.  7  July,  1839,  at  Maracaibo,  South  America;  (2nd) 
Thomas  J.  Nightengale.     Issue: 

1st.  Charlotte  E.,  b.  17  May,  1827;  mar.  George  Newcomb  of 
Quincy. 

2nd.     Joseph  B.,  b.  15  Mar.,  1829. 

3d.  Lucy  I.,  b.  16  Apr.,  1834;  mar.  Jonathan  M.  Marsh  of 
Quincy. 

4.  Joseph  G.,  b.  12  Oct.,  1809.     See  family  8. 

5.  Rachel  Marsh,  b.  6  June,  181 2;  mar.  20  Oct.,  1836,  George  W. 
Hardwick,  of  Quincy;  d.  1  July,  1844;  children,  Emeline  A.  C,  b. 
30  Sept.,  1837;   Lewis  B.,  b.  23  May,  1840. 

6.  Ambrose  S.,  b.  18  Sept.,  1814.     See  family  9. 

7.  Lewis,  b.  1  June,  1817;  d.  in  Oct.,  1838. 

8.  Edward,  b.  17  Oct.,  1819;  mar.  29  Apr.,  1851,  Elizabeth  Hall, 
dau.  of  John,  of  Quincy;  is  dec;  will  proved  10  Apr.,  1872.  No 
issue. 

9.  Louisa  Ann,  b.  19  Apr.,  1822;  mar.  in  Jan.,  1843,  Lawrence 
Richards;  d.  in  1845. 

10.  Frederick,  b.  19  Dec,  1824;  mar.  in  1846,  Alma  A.  Ayres;  d. 
27  July,  185 1.      Issue: 

1st.     Charles  Frederick,  b.  in  Dec,  1846. 
2nd.     Caroline  A.,  b.  in  1850. 

11.  William  L-,  b.  26  Apr.,  1829.     See  family  10. 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From    Family    No.    5.     Descent:     Richard,    James,    Joseph,    Moses, 
Peter,  Peter. 

Peter  Brackett  was  born  October  31,  1804,  in  Quincy;  baptized 
November  26,  1804;  removed  from  Massachusetts  about  1855,  and 
settled  in  Chicago;  thence  to  Lincoln  county,  111.,  and  from  there  to 
Minneapolis,  where  he  died  April  15,  1881;  was  a  shoemaker  by  trade. 
Married  April  16,  1827,  Elizabeth  Ditson,  born  April  25,  1811,  died 
January  17,  1894,  daughter  of  William  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Newcornb; 
she  was  born  August  12,  1787,  died  February  2,  1832,  daughter  of 
Charles  Newcomb,  of  Braintree  and  wife,  Jerusha  Adams,  daughter 
of  Mieajah.     Issue,  all  born  in  Quincy: 

1.  William  Ditson,  b.  1  May,  1828;  d.  4  Feb.,  1854. 

2.  Charles  C,  b.  17  Feb.,  1830.     See  family  11. 

3.  Henry  Clay,  b.  25  Apr.,  1832.     See  family  12. 

4.  Daniel  Webster,  b.  twin  with  Henry  C;  d.  25  Oct.,  1832. 

5.  Elizabeth  Amanda,  b.  17  Sept.,  1833;  d.  21  Jan.,  1835. 

6.  Emma  Elizabeth,  b.  19  Apr.,  1835;  d.  27  Sept.,  1837. 


JOSEPH,    OF    BRAINTREE  531 

7.  Francis  Edwin,  b.  13  May,  1838;  mar.  2  June,  1858,  Philinda 
Reaser,  who  d.  26  Sept.,  1858;  served  3  years  in  Chicago  Mercantile 
battery;  railroad  contractor;  resided  in  Chicago,  Peoria,  111.,  and 
Minneapolis  in  the  order  named. 

8.  Peter,  Jr.,  b.  13  Dec,  1843;  d.  15  Mar.,  1863. 

9.  Elizabeth  Irene,  b.  24  Mar.,  1845;  mar.  1  Sept.,  1870,  C.  S. 
Gold. 

10.  George,  b.  8  Oct.,  1852.     See  family  13. 


EIGHTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    8. 

From    Family   No.    6.     Descent:     Richard,   James,   Joseph,   Joseph, 
Joseph,  Joseph,  Joseph  G. 

Joseph  George  Brackett  was  born  October  12,  1809,  in  Quincy; 
married  October  10,  1832,  Eucy  A.  Butterfield,  of  Dedham,  born 
February  25,  18 15,  died  March  21,  1893,  daughter  of  Pitts  Butterfield 
and  wife,  Eucy  Damon.  Mr.  Brackett  was  a  lumber  dealer  in  Quincy, 
where  he  died  November  1,  1897.     Issue: 

1.     Infant,  b.  10  Aug.,  1834. 

L'.     Joseph  George,  b.  4  Apr.,  1836;  mar.  Susannah  M.  Eincoln. 

3.  Edith  Whitney,  b.  1  Oct.,  1840;  d.  in  Sept.,  1841. 

4.  Walter  Pitts,  b.  9  Apr.,  1842;  mar.  Margaret  Bland;  d.  in  July, 
1883,  in  Seattle,  Wash. 

5.  Charles  D.,  b.  15  Nov.,  1844.     See  family  14. 

6.  Rebecca  Elizabeth,  b.  27  Aug.,  1847;  d.  in  Sept.,  1848. 

7.  Eucy  Emily,  b.  3  July,  1838;  mar.  22  Dec,  1858,  Martin  W. 
Carr,  b.  9  Mar.,  1829,  d.  29  Mar.,  1902,  in  North  Easton,  Mass.,  son 
of  Caleb  and  wife,  Chloe  Parker;  Mr.  Carr  was  a  manufacturer  of 
jewelry  in  Somerville.      Issue: 

1st.  Eouis  B.,  b.  31  May,  i860;  mar.  7  June,  1887,  Eizzie  Nick- 
erson;  have  son,  Wentworth  C.,  b.  9  Oct.,  1889. 

2nd.  Eugene  P.,  b.  31  Jan.,  1864;  mar.  19  Nov.,  1889,  Hattie 
Nickerson;  children,  Ethel  N.,  b.  22  Nov.,  1893,  and  Mildred  P.,  b. 
31  May,  1895. 

3d.  Fred  M.,  b.  10  July,  1870;  mar.  n  Jan.,  1899,  Harriet  E. 
Folsom;  have  son,  Folsom  B.,  b.  22  Apr.,  1900. 

4th.     Emily  H.,  b.  19  Oct.,  1876;  d.  6  Mar.,  1877. 

5th.     Helen  D.,  b.  27  Jan.,  1880. 

6th.     Howard  W.,  b.  30  Jan.,  1881;  d.  29  Jan.,  1894. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From   Family   No.   6.     Descent:      Richard,   James,   Joseph,   Joseph, 
Joseph,  Joseph,  Ambrose  S. 

Ambrose   Spencer    Brackett   was  born    September    18,    18 14,    in 

Quincy;   was    a    shoemaker;   resided    in    Bradford,     N.    H.;     married 

October  4,  1838,  Nancy  Brown,  born  December  31,  18 16,  died  in  May, 

1862,  daughter  of  John,  of  Bradford;  died  in  1878,  in  Bradford.    Issue: 

1.     John  Q.  A.,  b.  8  June,  T842.     See  family  15. 


532  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From    Family   No.    6.     Descent:     Richard,   James,   Joseph,   Joseph, 
Joseph,  Joseph,  William  L. 

William  Fake  Brackett  was  born  April  26,  1829,  in  Quincy;  went 
to  California  in  which  state  he  resided  for  many  years;  married  in 
April,  1849,  Mary  Helen  Pope.     Issue: 

1.  Emily  Agnes,  b.  20  Nov.,  1853. 

2.  William  King,  b.  16  Mar.,  1856,  in  San  Francisco,  Cal.,  in 
which  city  he  resides;  is  a  dealer  in  groceries;  mar.  12  Sept.  1883, 
Emma  Funcke,  b.  26  Oct.,  1858,  dau.  of  Frederick  and  wife,  Eliza 
Tolla,  of  San  Francisco.     No  issue. 


FAMILY   NO.    11. 

From    Family    No.    7.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Joseph,    Moses, 
Peter,  Peter,  Charles  C. 

Charles  Cotton  Brackett  was  born  February  17,  1830,  in  Quincy; 
was  a  shoe  manufacturer;  removed  in  1856,  from  Quincy  to  Lincoln, 
111.,  in  which  latter  place  he  resided  until  his  death  August  27,  1885; 
married  September  1,  1861,  in  Lincoln,  Sarah  C.  Barnes,  born  May 
29,  1834,  daughter  of  James  and  wife,  Mary  Spear,  of  Corinth,  Vt. 
Issue: 

1.  Harvey  Spencer,  b.  27  May,  1862,  in  Lincoln,  111.;  mar.  12 
May,  1887,  Carrie  B.  Tyler,  b.  13  Oct.,  1862,  dau.  of  Judd  and  wife, 
Maggie  More,  of  Aurora,  Ind.;  is  engaged  in  real  estate  business  in 
Chicago,  where  he  has  resided  since  1880.     No  issue. 

2.  Ernest  H.,  b.  19  Mar.,  1866,  in  Lincoln,  111.;  mar.  27  Feb., 
1892,  Fannie  R.  Browne,  b.  27  Feb.,  1870,  dau.  of  Frank  D.  and  wife, 
Margaret,  of  Mt.  Morris,  N.  Y.;  is  manager  of  publishing  dept.  of  W. 
B.  Conkey  &  Co.'s  business  in  Chicago;  resides  at  4129  Ellis  ave., 
Chicago.     No  issue. 

3.  Henry  Edwin,  b.  17  Nov.,  1873;  is  a  teacher  of  dancing;  resides 
in  Kankakee,  111.;  mar.  23  May,  1901,  Rachel  Elms,  b.  17  Nov.,  1873, 
dau.  of  George  and  wife,  Susan  Custer,  of  Jonesboro,  111.  Served  in 
5th  U.  S.  inf.  during  war  with  Spain. 

4.  Charles  S.,  b.  17  July,  1864;  d.  19  Apr.,  1865. 


FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From   Family    No.    7.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Joseph,    Moses, 
Peter,  Peter,  Henry  C. 

Henry  Clay  Brackett  was  born  April  25,  1832,  in  Quincy,  Mass.; 
married  (1st)  January  12,  1856,  Sophia  I.  Totman,  who  died  July  26, 
1861;   (2nd)  March  25,  1866,  Mary  A.  Dorval.     Issue: 

1.  Ella  Frances,  b.  8  Oct.,  1858;  is  mar.  and  resides  in  Quincy. 

2.  Maud,  b.  17  Oct.,  1868;  d.  15  May,  1872,  in  Chicago. 

3.  Edward  L.,  b.  3  Sept.,  1874,  in  Minneapolis. 

4.  Frederick  Henry,  b.  6  July,  1877,  in  Minneapolis;  d.  28  July, 
1899,  in  Chicago. 

5.  Mary  Evelyn,  b.  26  Feb.,  1881. 


JOSEPH,    OF    BRAINTREE  533 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 
From   Family   No.    7.     Descent:     Richard,   James,   Joseph,    Moses, 
Peter,  Peter,  George. 

George  Brackett  was  born  October  8,  1852,  in  Quincy;  married 
September  14,  1873,  in  Chicago,  Catharine  Hall,  born  November  10, 
1854,  at  River  Head,  Long  Island,  New  York.     Issue: 

1.  Minnie  Maud,   born  24  Aug.,    1874,   in  Minneapolis;  mar.    14 
Apr.,  1899,  Fred  Riddell;  child,  Catherine  I.,  b.  24  July,  1900. 

2.  Charles  Frederick,  b.  18  Mar.,  1876,  in  Minneapolis. 

3.  Frank  Lewis,  b.  10  Apr.,  1880,  in  Stillwater,  Minn. 

4.  Harry  Hall,  b.  3  Aug.,  1887,  in  Minneapolis. 


NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From   Family  No.   8.     Descent:     Richard,   James,   Joseph,    Joseph, 
Joseph,  Joseph,  Joseph  G.,  Charles  D. 

Charles  Dallas  Brackett  was  born  November  15,  1844,  in  Quincy; 
retired  lumber  merchant;  resides  in  Oakland,  Cal.;  served  in  the 
Union  army  during  the  civil  war;  married  December  22,  1869,  Eydia 
A.  Hoopes,  born  February  15,  1845,  daughter  of  George  P.  and 
wife,  Margaret  Rearson,  of  Chester  county,  Penn.     Issue: 

1.     George  Hoopes,  b.  15  June,  1872;  mar.  in  1900,  Grace  Farey; 
resides  in  San  Francisco. 

FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From   Family  No.   9.     Descent:     Richard,   James,   Joseph,   Joseph, 
Joseph,  Joseph,  Ambrose  S.,  John  Q.  A. 

John  Quincy  Adams  Brackett,  was  born  June  8,  1842,  in  Brad- 
ford, N.  H.;  graduated  from  Colby  academy,  New  London,  N.  H.,  in 
1861;  declined  an  appointment  to  West  Point;  entered  Harvard  uni- 
versity and  graduated  in  1865,  was  class  orator;  in  1868,  graduated 
from  Harvard  law  school;  the  same  year  was  admitted  to  practice. 
Member  of  common  council  of  Boston  from  1873  to  1876  inclusive, 
was  its  president  in  1876.  Elected  representative  1876  to  1881  inclu- 
sive; served  on  important  committees,  in  1 881,  on  committee  on  the 
revision  of  statutes;  re-elected  in  1883,  was  chairman  of  house  com- 
mittee on  the  judiciary  in  1884;  re-elected,  was  chosen  speaker  in 
1885,  and  again  in  1886;  the  same  year  was  elected  lieutenant  gov- 
ernor which  office  he  held  for  three  years  and  a  part  of  the  period 
served  as  acting  governor;  elected  governor  in  1889.  President  of 
the  Mercantile  library  association  of  Boston,  in  1871  and  1882; 
appointed  in  1874,  judge  advocate  on  the  staff  of  General  I.  S.  Bur- 
rill,  first  brigade  of  Massachusetts  infantry;  a  delegate-at-large  from 
Massachusetts  to  the  Republican  national  convention  in  1892,  and  a 
member  of  its  committee  on  resolutions;  elected  elector  at  large  of 
Massachusetts  in  1896,  and  chosen  by  the  board  of  electors  its  chair- 
man; again  at  meeting  of  the  electors  of  Massachusetts  in  January, 
1 901,  he  was  chosen  first  elector-at-large  to  fill  the  vacancy  in  that 


534  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

office  occasioned  by  the  death  of  Ex-Governor  Wolcott.  Since  admis- 
sion to  the  bar,  has  followed  the  legal  profession;  first  associated 
with  Hon.  Levi  C.  Wade;  then  with  his  present  partner,  Walter  H. 
Roberts;  the  firm  has  had  a  lucrative  practice  for  years;  since  retire- 
ment from  office  in  1891,  has  devoted  his  time  to  the  practice  of  his 
profession.  Married  June  20,  1878,  Angie  Moore,  daughter  of  Abel 
Gaylord  and  Eliza  (Boles)  Peck,  of  Arlington,  Mass.  Home,  in 
Arlington.     Issue: 

1.  John  Gaylord,  b.  12  Apr.,  1879;  graduated  from  Harvard  uni- 
versity in  1901,  from  Harvard  law  school  in  1904;  admitted  to  Suffolk 
county  bar  in  1903,  and  is  now  (1906)  practicing  law  in  Boston,  a 
member  of  the  firm  of  Elder,  MacKusick  &  Brackett. 

2.  Beatrice,  b.  23  June,  1888. 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  535 


DIVISION      NO.      21. 


NATHAN  BRACKETT   OF   BRAINTREE  AND  HIS 
DESCENDANTS. 

FOURTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    1. 
From  Chapter  XI.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan. 

Nathan  Brackett  was  born  September  23,  1678;  was  baptized 
September  29,  1678,  in  First  church  of  Braintree.  He  lived  con- 
tinuously in  the  place  of  his  nativity  from  1683,  until  his  death  in 
May,  1743.  The  quiet  life  of  a  farmer  fulfilled  his  aspiration;  the 
records  do  not  disclose  that  he  held  any  office — even  minor  town  or 
parish  office.  In  1723,  he  was  chosen  constable,  but  prevailed  upon 
his  brother-in-law,  John  Veazy,  to  accept  the  office,  whom  the  select- 
men appointed  in  his  stead.  In  1708,  he  signed  a  petition  against 
the  division  of  the  town  and  the  following  year  voted  against  its 
division.  Neither  he  nor  his  wife  united  with  the  church  until  well 
along  in  years.  She  became  a  member  April  29,  1722,  and  he  on 
February  3,  1723.  Married  March  27,  1707,  Hannah  Veazy;  the 
ceremony  was  performed  by  Captain  John  Wilson.  She  was  bap- 
tized January  21,  1685,  died  before  March  31,  1753,  was  granddaugh- 
ter of  William  and  wife,  Elinor,  of  Braintree.  In  his  will  dated 
March  31,  1743,  he  mentioned  all  of  his  children.  Its  first  provision 
is  that  the  "ferry  lot"  was  to  be  sold  to  pay  debts.  The  rest  of  the 
real  estates  was  devised  to  his  wife  for  life;  "also  the  time  of  my 
Indian  boy."  Upon  her  death  son  Nathan  was  to  have  two-thirds  of 
the  lot  "I  bought  of  Puffer,"  and  daughter  Sarah  one-third.  To  son 
James,  the  eldest,  was  given  so  much  additional  to  what  he  had 
received  from  his  father,  as  to  make  a  double  portion.  All  the 
remainder,  the  will  provided,  should  be  equally  divided  among  the 
children,  James  excepted. 

The  farm  owned  by  Nathan  and  his  ancestors  remained  the  prop- 
erty of  descendants  of  his  in  the  direct  male  line  until  the  first  part  of 
the  eighteenth  century;  it  was  in  the  locality  of  Mount. Wollaston  in 
Braintree  and  is  referred  to  as  being  at  Mount  Wollaston.  This  is 
the  mount  on  whose  top  Thomas  Morton  erected  the  maypole  about 
which  his  "merry  merry  merry  boys"  circled  to  the  delight  of  the 
native  spectators,  and  where  Miles  Standish  and  his  melancholy  men 
made  their  objective  point  when  they  went  to  seize  those  merry  merry 
boys,  destroy  the  pole,  and  secure  the  beaver  pelts. 

The  song  for  the  exercises  on  that  May  day  had  a  line  or  two 
seemingly  designed  for  the  benefit  of  the  saints  at  Plymouth;  thus 
they  read — 

"Give  to  the  melancholy  man 
A  cup  or  two  of  't  now  and  then. 
This  physic  will  soon  revive  his  blood 
And  make  him  of  a  merrier  mood." 


536  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

As  setting  forth  the  order  of  the  exercises  for  the  occasion,  the 
first  verse  of  Morton's  May  day  song  runs — 

"Make  green  garlons,  bring  bottles  out; 
And  fill  sweet  Nectar  freely  about; 
Uncover  they  head  and  fear  no  harm 
For  here  is  good  liquor  to  keep  it  warm." 

No  doubt  the  program  was  carried  out.  The  maypole  they 
danced  about  was  eighty  feet  high  and  on  its  top  was  placed  a  pair 
of  buck  horns;  standing  on  the  highest  part  of  the  hill  it  was  a  fair 
mark  at  sea  and  was  visible  from  the  locality  of  the  Plymouth  colony 
across  the  bay.  The  settlers  there  were  Morton's  enemies  whom  he 
speaks  of  as  "precise  Separatests;"  he  relates  how  "its  setting  up 
was  a  lamentable  spectable  *  **  *.  They  termed  it  an  Idol;  yea  they 
called  it  the  Calf  of  Horeb;  and  stood  at  defiance  with  the  place 
naming  it  Mount  Dagon;  threatening  to  make  it  a  woful  mount  and 
not  a  merry  mount." 

This  worldly  Tom  Morton  who,  in  1622,  dwelt  near  the  mount 
which,  or  a  part  of  which,  became  the  property  of  the  staid  Puritan, 
grim  Richard  Brackett,  was  the  Mr.  Thomas  Morton  who  in  after 
years  was  an  instrument  in  saving  to  George  Cleeve  the  vast  estate 
that  became  the  property  of  the  Bracketts  of  Falmouth.  No  doubt 
Captain  Richard  and  George  Cleeve,  while  together  in  attendance  on 
the  general  court,  reviewed  their  recollections  of  worldly  Tom  Mor- 
ton, who  knew  how  to  do  a  good  turn  as  well  as  to  make  trouble.  In 
Nathan's  day  the  story  was  well  shredded  by  time,  had  so  little  of  the 
frame  work  left  that  most  any  yarn  would  do  for  a  filling;  hence, 
Morton  was  little  better  than  a  pirate  as  the  story  was  then  told. 
Issue: 

1.  James,  b.  3  Nov.,  1709.     See  family  2. 

2.  Josiah,  b.  1  Apr.,  1712;  was  a  housewright;  living  in  1754  in 
Halifax.  Mar.  17  Mar.,  1736,  Anna  Beale;  had  dau.  Anna,  bapt.  9 
Oct.,  1737;  other  issue,  if  any,  not  known. 

3.  Samuel,  b.  28  Nov.,  1714;  probably  mar.  (intention  published 
4  Apr.,  1738)  Elizabeth  Gomary;  mentioned  among  proprietors  of 
King's  chapel  in  1754,  pew  No.  99;  living  in  1756,  in  Boston.  So  far 
as  known  his  children  were — 

1st.     Joshua,   never  mar.;  d.  in  Demarara. 
2d.     Samuel,  mar.  Montgomery.     Issue: 

I.  Elizabeth,  who  mar.  6  Dec,  1770,  Richard  Carpenter;  had 
two  sons  and  two  daughters,  one,  Katie,  lived  in  South  Reading, 
Mass. 

II.  Catherine,  who  mar.  16  Dec,  1779,  William  Dodd.  No 
issue. 

III.  Hannah,  who  mar.  27  Feb.,  1803,  William  Dodd  (above 
mentioned);  no  issue;  for  many  years  he  was  a  clerk  for  Gov.  Han- 
cock and  at  times  bearer  of  dispatches.  No  dates  are  given  in  Mr. 
Richardson's  record  of  this  family;  this  would  indicate  that  his  infor- 
mation was  obtained  from  some  person  who  was  acquainted  with 
members  of  it. 

4.  Mary,  b.  20  Feb.,  1717;  supposed  to  have  mar.  11  Jan.,  1743, 
Silas  Stetson  of  Scituate;  had  son,  Silas,  b.  1  Mar.,  1759. 

5.  John,  b.  14  Apr.,  1719.     See  family  3. 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  537 

6.  Sarah,  bapt.  17  June,  1722;  mar.  in  1748,  Jonathan  Hayward; 
lived  in  Braintree;  children,  Jonathan,  bapt.  9  Apr.,  1749,  d.  1765; 
Margary,  bapt.  11  Feb.,  1750,  mar.  John  Clark;  Lois,  bapt.  23  Aug., 
1752,  mar.  David  P.  Hayward  of  Braintree;  Daniel,  bapt.  in  1754, 
mar.  Mary  Denton;  Sarah,  bapt.  16  June,  1757,  d.  at  an  advanced 
age;  Mary,  bapt.  11  Mar.,  1759,  d.  young;  Nathaniel,  bapt.  4  Dec, 
1763,  mar.  Elizabeth  Hayward;  John,  bapt.  2  Sept.,  1766,  mar.  dau. 

•of  Benj.  Hodgden  of  Braintree. 

7.  Nathan,  b.  1  July,  1724.     See  family  4. 


FIFTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    2. 
From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  November  3,  1709,  in  Braintree,  where 
he  died  in  1781;  in  1752-3-4,  purchased  from  his  brothers  Josiah, 
John  and  Samuel,  their  respective  shares  in  their  father's  real  estate 
in  Braintree;  was  proprietor  of  the  well  known  Brackett  tavern,  cor- 
ner of  Elm  and  Hancock  streets;  served  as  selectman  in  1761.  Mar- 
ried August  2,  1733,  Abigail  Belcher,  ceremony  performed  by  Rev. 
Samuel  Chickley,  of  Old  South  church;  she  died  in  175-,  was  daugh- 
ter of  Deacon  Gregory  Belcher;  he  was  born  February  28,  1664,  mar- 
ried March  25,  1690,  Elizabeth  Ruggles,  was  killed  by  accident  while 
plowing  July  4,  1727,  son  of  Samuel;  Elizabeth  Ruggles  was  daugh- 
ter of  John  and  wife,  Rebecca  Farnsworth,  who  were  married  March 
18,  1662.  Married  (2nd)  Mary,  widow  of  Richard  Brackett;  she  died 
September  20,  1780. 

When  this  Mr.  Brackett  reached  middle  life,  vexatious  disputes 
had  commenced  between  the  colonies  and  Great  Britain  which  led  to 
the  War  of  the  Revolution.  The  following  will  show  on  which  side, 
and  at  how  early  a  day,  he  took  a  stand.  Under  date  of  May  4, 
1766,  Mr.  John  Adams,  who  became  president  of  the  United  States, 
wrote  in  his  diary — 

"Returning  this  morning,  I  saw  for  the  first  time  a  likely  young 
button-wood  tree,  lately  planted  in  the  triangle  made  by  the  three 
roads  by  the  house  of  Mr.  James  Brackett.  The  tree  is  well  set,  well 
guarded,  and  on  it  is  an  inscription — 

'The  tree  of  liberty,  and  cursed  is  he  who  cuts  it  down.'  Query. 
What  are  the  consequences  of  this  thought?  I  never  heard  a  hint  of 
it  until  I  saw  it,  but  I  hear  that  some  persons  grumble  and  threaten 
to  girdle  it." 

The  manifestation  of  impulse  or  feeling  in  a  degree  as  the  plant- 
ing of  this  tree  would  indicate,  at  so  early  a  period  in  the  contest, 
would  hardly  comport  with  the  dignity  and  substantial  business 
methods  of  the  proprietor  of  the  far-famed  hostelry  of  Braintree.  But 
there  was  a  member  of  his  household  from  whose  subsequent  conduct 
is  inferred  that  he  could  have  told  the  future  president  all  about  the 
inscription  on  the  young  button-wood.  James  Brackett  was  not'the 
man  to  disturb  a  tree  of  liberty;  and  once  planted  near  his  house 
it  remained,  the  deed  having  his  approval.     The  good  man  did  not 


538  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

live  to  hear  the  glad  tidings  of  peace,  but  did  live  to  hear  that  lib- 
erty had  been  won.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  James,  b. ,  173—.     See  family  5. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  15  Jan.,  173S;  d.  young. 

3.  Abigail,  b.  13  Apr.,  1740;  mar.  (1st)  Benjamin  Veazie;  (2nd) 
31  Dec.,  1777.  David  Bass;  children,  Benjamin:  William;  Dorothy; 
David,  b.  1778;  Asa. 

4.  Samuel,  b.  30  Nov.,  1741.     See  family  6. 

5.  Elizabeth,  b.  4  Oct.,  1744;  mar.  15  Apr.,  1764,  John  Hall,  Jr., 
of  Quincy.  who  d.  27  Oct.,  1822;  d.  10  Sept.,  1821.     Issue: 

1st.     John,  bapt.  13  Aug.,  1765;  mar.  Elizabeth  Blake. 
2nd.     Lydia,  bapt.  11  Jan.,  1767;  mar.  Ruggles  Nightengale. 
3d.     Edward,  b.  29  Dec,  1771;  mar.  Elizabeth  Hardwick. 
4th.     James,  b.  28  Aug.,  1774;  never  mar.;  resided  in  Quincy. 
5th.     Charles,  b.  11  May,  1777;  never  mar.;  d.  23  Feb.,  1851. 
6th.     Betsey,  b.  30  Jan.,  1780;  mar.  Theophilus  Thayer. 
7th.     Lemuel,  b.  14  Aug.,  17S5;  mar.  Nancy  Cary. 
8th.     Nancy,  never  mar. 

6.  William,  b.  7  Feb.,  1747;  was  five  feet  eight  inches,  in 
height;  complexion,  fair;  was  private  in  Capt.  John  Hall's  co.,  Col. 
Benjamin  Lincoln's  regt.,  which  assembled  19  Apr.,  1775;  served 
7  days;  enlisted  8  May,  1775,  in  Capt.  Seth  Turner's  indept.  co.; 
served  8  months  and  13  days;  enlisted  same  co.  1  Jan.,  1776,  served 
to  22  May,  1776;  stationed  at  Braintree.  Enlisted  25  May,  1776,  in 
Capt.  Seth  Turner's  co.,  Col.  Thomas  Marshall's  regt.;  served  to  1 
Nov.,  1776.  Enlisted  31  Oct.,  1776,  same  co.  and  regt.,  and  served 
to  1  Jan.,  1777;  stationed  at  Hull.  Enlisted  in  Col.  Ebenezer 
Thayer's  (5th  Suffolk  co.)  regt.  and  from  that  regt.  enlisted  to  serve 
for  three  years  in  Continental  army,  20  June,  1777;  joined  Capt.  Per- 
kins' co.,  Col.  Crane's  regt.  of  artillery;  served  during  years  1778-9- 
80;  re-enlisted  and  served  until  the  end  of  the  war.  When  peace 
was  proclaimed  he  was  stationed  at  West  Point;  a  few  soldiers,  of 
which  he  was  one,  were  retained  to  garrison  the  forts;  he  died  there 
in  1784;  for  this  latter  service  he  volunteered.  That  so  gallant  a 
soldier  and  so  ardent  a  patriot  did  not  live  to  a  ripe  old  age,  is 
regretted.  Mar.  Mercy,  dau.  of  Richard  Brackett  and  wife,  Mary; 
in  1823  she  lived  in  Boston  on  Cross  street.     Issue: 

1st.     Susannah,  b.  20  Jan.,  1774;  mar.  5  Dec,  1790,  Remember 
Newcomb;  d.  n  Dec,  1826.     Issue: 

I.  Nancy,  b.  4  Nov.,  1791;  mar.  Ephraim  P.  Steel. 

II.  Delight,  b.  13  Oct.,  1793;  mar.  Bradley  Cummings. 

III.  Norton,  b.  13  May,  1796;  mar.  Lydia  Chasty;  was  dealer 
in  boots  and  shoes  in  Boston;  had  son,  Danforth  S. 

IY.     William,  b.  29  Apr.,  1798;  never  mar. 

V.  Danforth,  b.  10  July,  1800;   d.  1  Oct.,  1821. 

VI.  Stillman,  b.  24  July,  1803;  d.  20  Apr.,  1838. 
2nd.     Alice,  b.  6  Nov.,  1775. 

3d.     Elsie,  who  never  mar. 

7.  Ebenezer,  b.  28  Oct.,  1750;  never  mar.;  served  as  a  private  in 
Capt.  John  Hall's  1st  co.,  Col.  Palmer's  regt.;  co.  assembled  4  Mar., 
1776;  served  15  days  in  Rhode  Island.  Served  as  a  private  in  Capt. 
Edmund    Billings'  co.,    Col.  Jonathan   Bass'    regt.;     co.    assembled 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  539 

13  June,  1776,  to  drive  British  ships  from  Boston;  service,  two  days; 
d.  in  1791,  in  Quincy. 

8.  Rebecca,  mar.  5  Jan.,  1761,  Richard  Newcomb,  of  Quincy;  d. 
young;  no  issue. 

9.  Mary,  b.  16  Aug.,  1761;  mar.  3  Dec,  1780,  Dr.  Thomas 
Phipps,  Sr.,  of  Quincy;  d.  4  Nov.,  1817.     Issue: 

1st.     Danforth,  bapt.  7  Dec,  1783;  d.  at  about  18  years  of  age. 
2nd.     Thomas,  b.  16  Apr.,  1786;   mar.  Mehitable  Arnold;  d.  in 
1832. 

3d.     Mary,  b.  27  Apr.,  1788;  mar.  James  Baxter,  of  Quincy. 
4th.     Lucy,  b.  24  Apr.,  1791;  mar.  Nathaniel  Wildes,  of  Quincy. 
oth.     Rebecca,  b.  17  Apr.,  1796;   also  mar.  Nathaniel  Wildes. 
6th.     William,  b.  17  June,  1798;  mar.  Stamford,  of  Boston. 
7th.     Samuel,  b.  13  May,  1801. 

10.  Joseph  Glidden,  b.  28  Oct.,  1764;  d.  young. 

11.  Rebecca,  b.  14  Jan.,  1767;  mar.  7  Sept.,  1786,  John  New- 
comb;  resided  in  Quincy;  children,  John,  bapt.  16  May,  1790,  d. 
young:  Eben,  bapt.  16  May,  1790,  d.  22  Mar.,  1832;  William,  b.  28 
July,  1793,  mar.  Jerusha  Arnold;  Joseph,  b.  17  May,  1795,  never 
mar.;  Frances,  b.  8  Apr.,  1798;  James,  b.  29  June,  1800,  mar.  Caro- 
line Arnold;  Danforth  P.,  b.  11  Dec,  1803;  Thomas,  b.  28  Sept., 
1806;   Mary,  b.  1  Oct.,  1809,  mar.  John  Page. 

FAMILY    NO.    3. 

From  Family  No.  1.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  April  14,  1719,  in  Braintree,  Mass.; 
baptized  on  April  19,  same  year;  a  brick  la5^er  by  trade;  with  his 
brother  Samuel  worked  on  the  construction  of  King's  chapel  in  Bos- 
ton, dedicated  August  21,  1754,  in  which  Samuel  was  a  pew  owner. 
The  two  removed  to  Boston  when  young  men  and  resided  there,  he 
until  subsequently  to  1758.  In  the  contest  between  the  colonies  and 
Great  Britain  he  supported  the  latter;  removed  to  Vermont,  was  in 
Bennington  prior  to  1775;  when  about  the  age  of  sixty  years  he 
enlisted  and  served  in  the  British  army,  perhaps  about  the  time  of 
Burgoyne's  invasion;  removed  to  Manchester,  Vt.,  where  he  died  in 
the  year  1800,  at  about  the  age  of  eighty  years.  It  is  not  certain  that 
the  John  Brackett  who  died  in  Manchester  in  1800,  and  served  in  the 
British  army  was  the  John  Brackett  who  was  born  in  Braintree  in 
1 719,  and  was  connected  with  Episcopal  churches  in  Boston,  but  there 
is  strong  probability  that  he  was;  his  associates  in  Boston  well  fitted 
him  for  his  part  in  the  war  and  his  age  at  death  would  make  his  birth 
occur  in  the  year  1719;  on  these  coincidences  alone  his  parentage  is 
based  as  here  given.  Married  April  26,  1742,  in  Trinity  church, 
Boston,  by  Rev.  Addington  Davenport,  to  Damaris  Dean,  baptized 
November  2,  17 18,  daughter  of  George  and  wife,  Hannah  Ruch. 
John  Brackett  was  a  member  of  Trinity  church.  He  may  have  mar- 
ried the  second  time.     Issue: 

1.  George,  bapt.  13  July,  1743.     No  further  record. 

2.  John,  bapt.  3  June,  1744;  d.  15  July,  1758. 

3.  Christopher.     See  family  7. 
Perhaps  had  other  children. 


540  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    4. 

From  Family  No.  i.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan. 

Nathan  Brackett  was  born  July  i,  1724,  in  Braintree,  Mass.; 
was  baptized  July  5,  same  year;  a  farmer;  resided  in  Braintree  to 
about  1754.  when  he  removed  to  Upton,  Worcester  county,  Mass.; 
had  purchased  land,  sixty  acres,  there  December  10,  1753,  and  in 
September,  1759,  purchased  of  Joseph  Chapin  fifty-two  acres  on  east 
side  of  West  river;  also  is  of  record  purchase  by  him  of  forty  acres 
from  Nathan  Tyler  made  June  4,  1761;  as  part  consideration  he  and 
successors  were  to  pay  to  the  treasurer  of  the  trustees  for  Hopkington 
one  pence  per  acre  as  rent,  on  March  25,  of  every  year  until  March 
25,  182S,  and  forever  thereafter  three  pence  per  acre.  There  are 
recorded  sales  of  land  by  him  of  forty  acres  to  Nathan  Tyler,  Jr., 
August  28,  1760;  thirty-five  acres  to  Eben  Wood  April  1,  1765; 
thirty  acres  to  Francis  Boon  October  24,  1775,  rent  to  be  paid  to 
trustees  of  Hopkington.  Name  is  found  in  list  of  Upton  training 
soldiers,  dated  March  23,  1757;  from  this  is  inferred  that  he  served 
in  the  last  French  and  Indian  war.  Late  in  life,  subsequently  to  the 
War  of  the  Revolution,  with  his  family  removed  to  Buckland,  Frank- 
lin county,  Mass.,  where  he  died  in  1795.  Married  September  5, 
1749,  Hannah  Owen;  she  was  probably  daughter  of  Nathaniel,  and 
was  born  November  3,  1720;  Nathaniel  was  born  November  1,  1691, 
in  Braintree,  died  prior  to  1730,  married  Deborah,  was  son  of  Na- 
thaniel and  wife,  Mary,  son  probably  of  William  and  wife,  Elizabeth; 
An  Elizabeth  Owen  was  drowned  June  3,  1702,  while  crossing  a 
stream.     Issue: 

1.  Nathan,  b.  4  Feb.,  1750,  in  Quincy,  Mass.  Was  private  in 
Capt.  Stephen  Saddler's  co.,  Col.  Wheelock's  regt.,  which  marched 
20  Apr.,  1775,  to  Roxbury  in  response  to  alarm  of  19- Apr.;  served 
five  days.  Served  as  a  private  in  Capt.  David  Batchelor's  co.,  Col. 
Joseph  Read's  regt.,  (muster  roll  dated  1  Aug.,  1775)  for  three 
months  and  six  days;  received  order  for  bounty  coat  or  its  equivalent 
in  money,  dated  Roxbury  24  Oct.,  1775.  Name  appears  in  list  of 
men  mustered  in  Worcester  co.,  by  Thomas  Newhall,  for  service 
in  Rhode  Island;  served  in  Capt.  Farrar's  co.,  Col.  Wood's  regt.; 
receipt  for  wages  dated  at  Upton  26  June,  1778,  for  six  months'  ser- 
vice in  Rhode  Island.  Signed  petition  with  others,  dated  30  Sept.. 
1777,  for  addition  to  their  wages  for  service  in  Capt.  Isaac  Wood's 
co.,  guarding  Continental  stores  at  Little  Cambridge,  Concord  and 
Sudbury;  granted  by  House  of  Representatives  21  Jan.,  1778. 
Served  in  Capt.  Samuel  Lamb's  co.,  Col.  Nathaniel  Wade's  regt., 
enlisted  26  June,  1778,  time  to  expire  1  Jan.,  1779.  Also  probably 
served  in  Capt.  Thomas  Baker's  co.,  Col.  Nathan  Tyler's  regt., 
enlisted  27  July,  1780;  discharged  8  Aug.,  1780;  served  fifteen  days 
on  alarm,  in  Rhode  Island.  In  1831,  was  allowed  pension  at  which 
time  he  lived  in  Buckland.     It  is  not  known  that  he  left  any  issue. 

2.  Hannah,  b.  4  Dec,  1751;  d.  young. 

3.  Jonathan,  b.  1  Aug.,  1753;  never  mar.;  d.  in  Buckland. 

4.  Betsey,  b.  27  Aug.,  1755,  in  Upton. 

5.  Samuel,  b.  29  June,  1757.     See  family  8. 

6.  Sally,  b.  19  Sept.,  1759,  in  Upton. 


NATHAN,     OF    BRAINTREE  541 

7.  Benjamin,  b.  10  Nov.,  1760.     See  family  9. 

8.  Hannah,    b.    14   Jan.,    1763;  probably    mar.    11    Sept.,    1777, 
Thomas  Nelson,  of  Upton;  if  so  was  but  14  years  old  at  the  time. 

9.  James,  b.  27  Jan.,  1765.     See  family  10. 

10.  Rebecca,  b.  2  Feb.,  1768,  in  Upton. 

11.  Lois,  b.  2  July,  1773,  in  Upton. 


SIXTH     GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    5. 

From  Family  No.    2.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Nathan,    James, 
James. 

James  Bracket!  was  born ,    173-;  baptized  January  25, 

1736,  in  Braintree.  For  several  years  kept  the  Althorp  house  corner 
of  Elm  and  Hancock  streets.  In  1770,  purchased  house  near  Canal 
street  and  in  close  proximity  to  Mount  Wollaston,  one  of  the  oldest 
in  Braintree;  it  stood  on  the  site  of  a  former  garrison  house;  cuts  of 
it  decorated  the  bills  issued  by  a  Quincy  bank.  Was  an  extensive 
owner  of  real  estate  and  engaged  largely  in  shipping  and  trade.  In 
1774,  with  a  Captain  Brown  owned  several  vessels  engaged  in  fishing 
on  the  Grand  banks;  fish  were  salted  in  Braintree  and  exported  to 
West  Indies  and  South  Europe,  where  during  Lent  a  ready  market 
was  found  at  an  advanced  price.  On  his  farms  at  Mount  Wollaston 
were  erected  salt  works  to  supply  salt  for  curing  fish;  however,  his 
vessels  on  return  voyages  could  bring  sea-salt  from  Situbal,  Portugal, 
at  less  cost  than  salt  could  be  manufactured  at  Quincy,  and  the  works 
were  discontinued. 

He  was  an  ardent  supporter  of  the  colonies  in  their  war  for  inde- 
pendence: not  only  during  the  war  but  for  years  prior  thereto  on  all 
questions  and  matters  leading  up  to  the  revolution  he  was  outspoken 
against  Great  Britain's  tyrannous  course.  It  was  as  early  as  1766, 
that  John  Adams  recorded  in  his  diary  about  the  tree  of  liberty  being 
planted  in  the  triangle  near  the  hotel.     At  a  later  date  he  wrote, — 

"By  the  way,  to-day  I  heard  that  Major  Miller  and  James 
Brackett,  Jr.,  were  heard  since  the  March  meeting  raving  against 
Deacon  Palmer  and  said  he  was  a  knave,  etc." 

In  1774,  a  report  was  spread  in  Boston  and  elsewhere  that  num- 
bers of  the  people  in  Braintree  had  combined  to  harass  the  Episco- 
palians and  oblige  them  to  leave  the  town.  At  the  town  meeting 
held  in  October,  1774,  it  was  voted  that  said  report  was  malicious  and 
injurious,  was  subversive  of  good  government. 

There  were  a  few  in  Braintree  who  were  Tories;  they  were  prin- 
cipally Episcopalians.  Among  others  who  were  suspected  of,Toryism 
was  a  William  Brackett,  who  at  the  outbreak  of  the  war  was  taken 
into  custody  and  required  to  declare  his  intentions.  The  writer  has 
been  unable  to  place  this  William  Brackett;  he  was  probably  a  son  of 
the  Tory,  John  Brackett,  an  uncle  of  this  James  Brackett  who  was 
making  life  uncomfortable  for  Tories  of  all  kinds.  The  only  William 
Brackett  of  whom  is  known,  living  in  Braintree  during  the  period,  was 
as  good  a  soldier  in  the  Continental  army  as  any  who  served.  How- 
ever, said  uncle  John  was  a  very  good  Tory  and  Episcopalian;  his 


542  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

home  was  in  Boston,  later  when  the  contest  became  warm,  in  Ver- 
mont. To  exclude  all  doubt  as  to  his  and  his  father's  politics  that 
might  arise  from  the  well  known  course  of  John  Brackett  in  taking 
sides  with  the  king,  James  Brackett,  Jr.,  kept  none  of  his  patriotism 
under  a  bushel;  the  planting  of  the  tree  of  liberty  and  the  raving 
against  Deacon  Palmer  and  other  Tories  and  Episcopalians,  served  to 
distinguish  himself  and  his  family  in  matters  of  politics  from  relatives 
of  that  ilk.  By  the  town  voting  as  malicious  the  report  that  its  peo- 
ple had  combined  to  harass  the  Episcopalians,  no  disapproval  was 
intended  as  to  his  course  or  conduct;  for  at  the  same  meeting  the 
town  voted  that  the  committee  of  inspection  carry  out  the  orders  of 
the  committee  of  correspondence  respecting  the  withholding  of  mate- 
rial from  the  soldiers,  and  James  Brackett,  Jr.,  was  honored  with  a 
place  on  the  committee. 

Served  on  local  committee  of  safety  in  1779,  81,  82  and  83;  drafted 
in  1775,  to  serve  in  the  war  but  was  excused;  later  volunteered,  was 
private  in  Captain  Edmund  Billings'  company,  Colonel  Jonathan 
Bass'  regiment;  company  assembled  June  13,  1776,  to  drive  British 
ships  from  Boston  harbor;  chosen  selectman  in  1786;  at  his  request 
another  was  appointed  to  fill  the  office.  In  1794,  he  built  a  residence 
on  the  site  where  stood  his  father's  tavern.  Made  voyages  in  his 
vessels  to  the  West  Indies,  usually  accompanied  by  his  negro  boy, 
Luke.  In  his  old  age  was  quite  deaf  and  for  that  reason  sat  in  the 
pulpit  during  services  to  enable  him  to  hear  the  sermons.  Married 
March  24,  1761,  Mary  Spear,  daughter  of  John,  2nd,  and  wife, 
Mary  Arnold;  his  father,  Joseph,  was  born  February  23,  1687,  mar- 
ried Ann ;  his  father,  Ebenezer,  was  born  August  3,  1654,  died 

December  7,  ,  married  July  16,  1679,  Rachel  Deering,  was  son  of 

George  and  wife,  Mary;  all  of  Braintree.  James  Brackett  died  Au- 
gust 16,  1825;  remains  placed  in  his  tomb  in  Quincy.     Issue: 

1.  Polly,  b.  29  Apr.,  1762;  mar.  14  Dec,  1794,  George  Odiorne, 
of  Exeter,  N.  H.,  who  d.  1  Dec,  1846,  mnfr.  of  nails  in  Maiden, 
Mass.;  d.  15  July,  1798.     No  issue. 

2.  Rebecca,  b.  4  Mar.,  1764;  mar.  21  Oct.,  1788,  Jeffrey  Richard- 
son of  Boston,  who  d.  26  Oct.,  1805;  rope-maker;  resided  on  corner 
of  Pearl  and  High  streets;  d.  3  Dec,  1843.     Issue: 

1st.     Jeffrey,  b.  9  Oct.,    1789;  mar.   (1st)    16  Sept.,    1828,   Sally 
Brackett,  who  d.  2  Dec,  1837;    (2nd)  27  Jan.,  1839,  Julia  S.  Brackett. 
2nd.     James,  b.  1  June,  1792;  d.  31  July,  1793. 
3d.     James,  b.  25  Sept.,  1793;  mar.  Hannah  Fiske. 
4th.     Sally,  b.  1  Oct.,  1795;  d.  13  Aug.,  1797. 
5th.     Ebenezer,  b.  3  Apr.,  1798;  d.  25  Jan.,  1802. 
6th.     Benjamin  P.,  b.  23  Apr.,  1802;  mar.  Rebecca  Bridge. 

3.  Henry,  b.  17  Jan.,  1766.     See  family  11. 

4.  Sarah,  b.  14  Sept.,  1767;  d.  31  Oct.,  1785. 

5.  James,  b.  29  July,  1769.     See  family  12. 

6.  Abigail  Belcher,  b.  11  Aug.,  1 77 1 ;  mar.  24  Feb.,  1804,  Abijah 
Hunt,  who  d.  27  Dec,  1822;  lived  in  Williamsburg,  Mass.;  d.  10 
Dec,  1844;  children,  Sarah  R.,  b.  26  Mar.,  1806,  mar.  Hiram 
Holmes;  Abigail  B.,  b.  19  July,  1808,  mar.  Alvin  Bradford,  d.  26 
Oct.,  1833;  Mary  A.,  b.  4  June,  181 1,  d.  4  Feb.,  1838;  Philomelia,  b. 
22  Oct.,  1813. 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  543 

7.  Ebenezer,  b.  7  May,  1773;  never  mar.;  was  a  graduate  of 
Dartmouth,  a  physician;   d.  9  May,  1794. 

8.  Charles,  b.  4  Mar.,  1776.     See  family  13. 

9.  Samuel  E.,  b.  11  Oct.,  1778;  d.  27  Aug.,  1797. 

10.  Lemuel,  b.  8  Sept.,  1780.     See  family  14. 

FAMILY    NO.    6. 

From    Family    No.    2.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  James, 
Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  November  30,  1741,  in  Quincy;  was 
private  in  Captain  Seth  Turner's  Independent  company  in  Braintree; 
enlisted  January  1,  1776,  served  to  May  22,  1776;  removed  to  Peters- 
boro,  N.  H.,  on  a  farm;  married  December  17,  1765,  Rebecca  Hay- 
ward,  born  February  25,  1746,  died  March  18,  1830,  daughter  of 
Samuel,  Jr.;  he  married  March  30,  1732,  Sarah  Haynes;  his  father, 

Samuel,  was  born   April    11,   1682,   married   Mary  ;  his  father, 

Jonathan,  married  May  6,  1693,  Sarah  Thayre,  Peter  Brackett  per- 
forming the  ceremony,  died  in  1689,  "his  cart  being  loaded  with 
wood,  oversetting,  pinched  his  body  against  a  tree,  whereof  after  a 
year  or  two  he  died;"  Sarah  Haynes  was  born  July  18,  171 1,  daugh- 
ter of  John  and  wife,  Sarah.  Samuel  Brackett  died  March  16,  1826, 
in  Petersboro.     Issue: 

1.  Sarah,  b.  21  Oct.,  1766;  never  mar.;  d.  25  Apr.,  1790. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  26  Nov.,  1768;  never  mar. 

3.  Betsey,  b.  7  Nov.,  1770;  mar.  John  Collins. 

4.  Dorothy,  b.  7  Oct.,  1772;  mar.  John  Bertram,  name  changed 
from  Woodcock;  had  children. 

5.  John,  b.  24  June,  1775,  mar.  (1st)  7  Dec,  1806,  Elizabeth 
Stuart,  who  d.  12  Oct.,  1813,  in  Petersboro,  dau.  of  Thomas  and 
wife,  Elizabeth;    (2nd)  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Lewis.     Issue: 

1st.  Henrietta,  b.  in  18 — ;  mar.  19  Oct.,  1830,  Charles  Cav- 
erly;  lived  in  Boston;  children,  Charles;  John;  William  L,.;  Hen- 
rietta B.;  and  John  B.,  who  d.  22  Aug.,  1846. 

2nd.  Mary,  who  mar.  James  Dale,  brush-maker  in  Boston;  no 
issue. 

6.  James,  b.  10  May,  1777.     See  family  15. 

7.  Josiah,  b.  28  Jan.,  1779.     See  family  16. 

8.  Isaac,  b.  1  July,  1781.     See  family  17. 

9.  Rebecca,  b.  15  Aug.,  1783;  never  mar.;  living  in  1837. 

10.  William,  b.  11  May,  1786.     See  family  18. 

11.  Ebenezer,  b.  27  Nov.,  1788.     See  family  19. 

12.  Joseph,  b.  31  Mar.,  1791;  was  a  minister  in  Rushville,  N.  Y.; 

mar. Bliss,  who  d.  in  1826,  dau.  of  George,  of  Springfield,  Mass.; 

d.  24  Sept.,  1832.     Issue: 

1st.     George  Bliss,  who  removed  to  New  Orleans. 

2nd.     Henry  Martyn,  who  removed  to  Washington  state. 

13.  Benjamin,  b.  21  Aug.,  1795-     See  family  20. 


COAT   OF   ARMS 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  545 

FAMILY    NO.    7. 

From    Family    No.    3.     Descent:     Richard,    James,    Nathan,    John, 
Christopher. 

Christopher  Brackett  was  born  perhaps  in  Boston;  for  a  time 
prior  and  probably  during  the  War  of  the  Revolution,  he  dwelt  in 
Bennington,  Vt.;  after  the  war  removed  to  Manchester,  where  he 
lived  until  about  1800,  when  he  removed  to  Elbridge,  N.  Y.;  settled 
on  a  farm  south  of  the.  village  where  he  died  at  the  age  of  seventy-five 
years.  During  the  War  of  the  Revolution  he  served  in  Elijah  Dewey's 
company;  name  appears  on  roster  of  company  as  it  was  formed  at 
time  of  battle  of  Bennington,  August  16,  1777.  Name  is  inscribed  on 
Soldier's  monument  in  Bennington.  Married  (1st)  about  1768,  Eliza- 
beth Tuttle  by  whom  his  older  children  were  born;  married  (2nd) 
I'.lsa .     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Ezra,  b.  in  1769.     See  family  21. 

2.  Jemima,  who  mar.  Abraham  Mclntyre,  of  Elbridge. 

3.  Elizabeth,  b.  4  July,  1780,  in  Bennington,  Vt. 

4.  Belinda,  b.  4  June,  1782,  in  Bennington. 

5.  Sabra,  b.  26  Aug.,  1785,  in  Manchester. 

6.  David,  b.  12  May,  1788,  in  Manchester;  lived  in  Elbridge,  N. 
Y.,  where  he  raised  a  family. 

7.  Morris,   drowned  in  1816  in  Osage  river. 

8.  Jonathan,  removed  to  Upper  Canada  in  181 7. 

9.  Newman.     No  further  record. 

10.  Sylvia,  who  mar.  Rice  and  removed  to  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

FAMILY   NO.    8. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  Nathan, 
Samuel. 

Samuel  Brackett  was  born  June  29,  1757,  in  Upton.  Was  private 
in  Captain  Stephen  Sadler's  company,  Colonel  Wheelock's  regiment, 
which  marched  April  20,  1775,  to  Roxbury  in  response  to  alarm  of 
April  19;  served  eight  days.  Was  private  in  Captain  David  Batchel- 
or's  company,  Colonel  Joseph  Read's  regiment,  enlisted  April  27, 
1775,  and  served  three  months  and  twelve  days';  was  given  order  for 
bounty  coat  or  its  equivalent  in  money,  dated  Roxbury,  October  24, 
1773.  Was  private  in  Captain  Samuel  Baldwin's  company,  Colonel 
Dike's  regiment,  served  from  December  14,  1776,  to  March  1,  1777. 
Also  served  in  Captain  Samuel  Craggin's  company,  Colonel  Eben- 
ezer  Sprout's  regiment  in  Rhode  Island  and  for  said  service  was 
given  receipt  for  wages  in  1778,  dated  at  Upton.  Was  (probably) 
private  in  Captain  Ebenezer  Battelle's  company,  enlisted  July  2,  1778, 
discharged  July  18,  1778;  service,  guarding  stores  in  Watertown. 
Was  private  in  Captain  Peter  Penniman's  company,  Colonel  Job 
Cushing's  regiment,  served  three  months  and  twenty-four  days  wiih 
the  Northern  arm}'.  Was  private  in  Captain  Thomas  Baker's  com- 
panv,  Colonel  Benjamin  Haw's  regiment,  enlisted  August  2.  1778, 
discharged  Septembt  r  12,  1778,  served  in  Rhode  Island.  Was  pri- 
vate in  Captain  Benjamin  Read's  company,  Colonel  John  Rand's 
(Worcester  county)  regiment,  enlisted  July  14,  1780,  for  town  of 
Upton,    discharged   October    12,    1780;  company  raised   to   reinforce 


546  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

the  Continental  army,  stationed  at  West  Point;  received  certificate 
from  Captain  Benjamin  Read  stating  that  Samuel  Brackett,  of  Upton, 
had  supplied  himself  "with  firelock,  etc.,  upon  a  three  months'  ser- 
vice." It  is  gratifying  to  inform  the  reader  that  in  1833,  this  worthy 
patriot  was  pensioned  by  the  Federal  government.  Upon  the  close  of 
the  war  removed  to  Buckland,  Mass.,  where  he  died  in  1840,  at  the 
age  of  eighty-three  years;  was  a  farmer.  Married  Betsey  Leonard 
who  died  in  January,  1852,  at  the  age  of  eighty-six  years,  daughter 
of  Daniel  H.  and  wife,  Delano;  her  parents  resided  in  Bridge- 
water  until  they  removed  to  Buckland.     Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Apollos.  b.  in  1792.     See  family  22. 

2.  Sally,  b.  22  Nov.,  1795;  mar.  18  Mar.,  1728-9,  Andrew  Butler, 
farmer,  b.  22  Feb.,  1797.  d.  in  Sept.,  1880,  son  of  Peter  and  wife, 
Martha  Bass,  of  Buckland;  d.  31  Mar.,  1876.     Issue: 

1st.  Frank,  b.  17  Jan.,  1830;  killed  in  Sept.,  1864.  while  serv- 
ing as  a  soldier  in  the  Union  army  during  the  civil  war. 

2nd.  Angeline,  b.  7  June,  1833;  mar.  29  May,  1864,  James  H. 
Doane,  b.  26  Sept.,  1833,  son  of  James  and  wife,  Cordelia  Butler 
Sanford,  farmer;  reside  in  Hawley,  Mass.;  Mrs.  Doane  supplied  data 
relative  to  descendants  of  her  mother.     Issue: 

I.  Frank  B.,  b.  12  Sept.,  1865;  mar.  3  Oct.,  1894,  Leigh  J. 
Bemis;  home,  in  North  Haven,  Conn. 

II.  Caroline  Ida,  b.  26  May,  1867. 

III.  Sarah  Delia,  b.  1  June,  1869. 

IV.  Fred  Woodbridge,  b.  11  Feb.,  1871;  mar.  15  Sept.,  1891, 
Nettie  B.  Bridges;  home,  in  Northfield,  Mass.;  children,  Ralph  B., 
b.  14  Nov.,  1893;  Howard  Benj.,  b.  22  Feb.,  1898. 

V.  Will  Nelson,  b.  27  Aug.,  1872;  mar.  9  Oct.,  1895,  Edith 
M.  Chase;  home,  in  Northampton,  Mass.;  children,  Dorothy  E.,  b. 
4  Apr.,  1897;   Donna  Chase,  b.  in  June,  1899. 

3d.  Melville  Cox,  b.  2  Dec,  1835;  mar.  Delia  Dunning;  d.  2 
Sept.,  1899;  children,  Edith  W.;  Sarah  H.;  Frank  J.;  Clara  D.  C; 
Richard  D. 

3.  Polly,  who  mar.  Elmer  Frost;  d.  about  age  of  80  years. 

4.  Sophronia,  who  mar.  Consider  Taylor;  d.  about  age  of  75  years. 

5.  Justus,  who  d.  about  the  age  of  21  years. 

FAMILY    NO.    9. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
Benjamin. 

Benjamin  Brackett  was  born  November  10,  1760,  in  LTpton;  pri- 
vate in  Captain  Peter  Penniman's  company,  Colonel  Job  Cushing's 
regiment;  served  from  August  17,  1777,  three  months  and  twenty-four 
days,  with  Northern  army.  Also  private  in  Captain  Benjamin  Read's 
company,  Colonel  John  Rand's  (Worcester  county)  regiment;  enlisted 
July  14,  1780,  discharged  October  10,  1780;  company  raised  to 
reinforce  the  Continental  army,  stationed  at  West  Point:  enlisted  for 
town  of  Upton;  certificate  dated  November  26,  1780,  by  Captain  Ben- 
jamin Read,  is  to  the  effect  that  Benjamin  Brackett  had  supplied  him- 
self "with  firelock,  etc.,  upon  a  three  months'  term  of  service."  In 
1833,  was  pensioned  by  the  Federal  government.  L'pon  the  close  of 
the  war  removed  to  Buckland,  where  he  died;  was  a  farmer.  Mar- 
ried Susannah  Washburn.     Issue: 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  547 

1.  Jonathan,  b.  19  Dec,  1792.     See  family  23. 

2.  Ezra,  b.  17  Jan.,  1795.     See  family  24. 

3.  Benjamin,  who  mar.  Hannah  Spinage;  resided  in  Adams,  Mass.; 
children,    Mercy;    Frank;    Sarah;    Harriet;    Maria;    Almira;    Josiah. 

4.  Martin,  who  mar.   Eydia  Washburn,  who  lived  in  Buckland; 
had  dau.  Lydia. 

5.  Nancy.     No  further  record. 

FAMILY    NO.    10. 

From  Family  No.  4.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  Nathan, 
James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  January  27,  1765,  in  Upton.  It  is  tra- 
ditional that  he  served  in  the  American  army  during  the  last  year  of 
the  War  of  the  Revolution;  that  one  night  when  very  hungry,  while 
on  picket  duty  he  milked  a  cow,  used  one  of  his  shoes  for  a  dish  and 
from  it  drank  the  milk.  A  story  is  related  of  him  that  when  a  young 
man  he  worked  for  a  Shaker  and  at  witnessing  the  Shaker's  dancing 
and  hearing  his  singing  while  at  his  religious  devotions,  he,  himself, 
became  lively  and  joined  in  the  dancing;  whereupon  the  old  gentle- 
men rebuked  him  saying,  ''Jamie  when  thou  art  converted  then  thou 
mayest  dance."  His  daughter,  Harriet,  related  an  instance  in  his 
family  government.  A  few  days  before  his  fatal  illness  he  commanded 
this  daughter  to  say  "Please  sir,"  for  something  she  wanted.  She 
positively  refused  to  say  it,  whereupon  he  said,  "Then  I  will  drowned 
you  in  the  brook,"  and  taking  her  in  his  arms  across  the  road  made 
a  pretense  of  carrying  out  his  threat.  Harriet  thought  it  would  be 
pleasant  to  live  with  the  fishes,  until  he  began  putting  her  head  in 
the  water.  The  ducking  produced  the  desired  effect;  she  said  "Please 
sir,"  and  was  carried  back  in  a  more  obedient  frame  of  mind.  On 
the  close  of  the  War  of  the  Revolution,  removed  to  Buckland,  thence 
to  Ashfield,  Mass.,  and  later  to  Delhi,  N.  Y.,  where  he  died  in  181 2. 
Married  in  Ashland,  January  1,  1798,  Anna  Watson  Flower,  born 
January  27,  17 — ,  died  February  14,  1866,  in  Hannibal,  N.  Y., 
daughter  of  Major  William  who  died  at  about  the  age  of  ninety-five 
years,  and  wife,  Hannah  Flower,  his  first  cousin;  her  father,  Major 
Eamrock  Flower,  moved  from  West  Hartford  to  Ashfield,  and  died 
January  6.  1815.  Married  Mehitable  Goodwin,  born  March  30,  1723. 
Issue,  not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  John  A.,  b.  16  Sept.,  1798.     See  family  25. 

2.  James  A.,  b.  5  Mar.,  1800.     See  family  26. 

3.  William  W.,  b.  6  May,  1802.     See  family  27. 

1.  Hannah,  b.  24  May,  1804;  mar.  Daniel  Haskins;  d.  15  Apr., 
1847,  in  Skaneateles,  N.  Y.,  from  consumption  of  the  lungs;  was  a 
devoted  member  of  the  M.  E.  church;  left  surviving  three  children. 

5.  Truman  F.,  b.  23  Mar.,  18 10.     See  family  28. 

6.  Harry  A.,  b.  26  Jan.,  1806.     See  family  29. 

7.  Harriet,  b.  22  Jan.,  1808,  in  Delhi,  N.  Y.;  upon  the  death  of 
her  father  she  went,  in  the  fifth  year  of  her  age,  to  the  home  of  her 
grandfather,  William  Flower;  at  the  age  of  seven  she  went  to  live 
with  a  family,  but  because  of  the  ill  treatment,  her  mother  took  her  at 
the  end  of  a  couple  of  years,  to  care  for  her  the  best  she  could;  at  the 
age  of  nine  she  was  adopted  by  her  mother's  sister,  Sally  Flower 


548  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Bement,  of  Ashfield,  Mass.,  with  whom  she  resided  until  she  attained 
her  twenty-first  year.  In  1829-30,  learned  the  milliner's  trade;  1831, 
taught  school  in  Pittstown,  N.  Y.,  in  Grafton  in  1832,  and  in  Hoosiek 
in  1834.  In  Pittstown  she  lived  with  her  brother  John  Brackett,  for 
two  years  until  his  second  marriage,  whose  first  wife  she  nursed  in  a 
lingering  illness  during  her  stay.  With  her  mother  in  1836,  she  went 
to  the  home  of  her  brother  William,  in  Hannibal.  After  teaching 
two  terms  of  school  she  was  mar.  9  May,  1838,  to  William  Perkins, 
blacksmith  and  farmer,  b.  2  Nov.,  181 1,  d.  28  Mar.,  1885,  son  of  Job 
and  wife,  Phoebe  Harrington,  of  Hannibal.  Resided  in  Hannibal  to 
27  Mar.,  1847,  when  they  removed  to  Fairdale.  Shortly  before  her 
death  9  July,  1875,  removed  to  Hannibal  Center.  Had  a  strong  and 
noble  character,  a  quick  and  active  brain,  a  retentive  memory,  and 
fine  conversational  powers.  Through  her  generosity  and  abundant 
sympathy,  her  life  was  filled  with  usefulness  though  hampered  by  ill 
health  for  many  years.  Was  a  model  mother  and  neighbor,  and  by 
precept  and  example  sought  to  fill  the  place  assigned  to  her  in  life. 
Issue: 

1st.  Russell  Bement,  mar.  (1st)  24  Nov.,  1862,  Almira  Elva 
Sanders;  (2nd)  10  Dec,  1863,  Cleantha  Amelia  Connell;  d.  in  Feb., 
1872,  in  Hannibal. 

2nd.  Anna  Harriet,  is  librarian  in  Ilion  (N.  Y.)  public  library; 
supplied  data  relative  to  descendants  of  her  grandfather. 

3d.     Hannah  Fidelia. 
8.     Fidelia  A.,  b.  25  Dec,  1811;   d.   12  Sept.,  1896;  mar.  13  June, 
1830,  James  M.  Knowlton,  wagon-maker  and  later  a  farmer  in  Han- 
nibal, b.  5  Nov.,  1809,  d.  29  May,  1875.     Issue: 

1st.  John,  b.  6  Dec,  1831;  mar.  20  Jan.,  1850,  Elizabeth  Vos- 
brug;  d.  14  May,  1S95.     Had  Lydia,  who  d.  at  age  of  24. 

2nd.  Eliza  Ann,  b.  30  June,  1834;  mar.  15  Aug.,  1858,  William 
H.  Tator;  d.  18  Dec,  1870.  Had  Charles,  who  d.  at  age  of  19  years 
and  Stella,  who  d.  at  age  of  4  years. 

3d.     William  H.,  b.  15  Feb.,  1835;  d.  2  Jan.,  1858. 

4th.     Julia  E.,  b.  20  Dec,  1836;   d.  16  Jan.,  1844. 

5th.     Lydia  M.,  b.  11  Aug.,  1838;  d.  27  June,  1844. 

6th.     James  R.,  b.  27  Dec,  1840;   d.  20  Jan.,  1844. 

7th.  Fidelia,  b.  2  Sept.,  1842;  mar.  6  Jan.,  1867,  Charles  Green; 
d.  21  Dec,  1878;  children,  Emma;  Mary;   Myrtle;   Lydia. 

8th.  Julia  A.,  b.  20  Jan.,  1845;  mar.  9  Oct.,  1862,  Charles  D. 
Schaff;  d.  1  Aug.,  1896;  children,  Dillon;   Mary;  John;   Fred. 

9th.     Susan  E.,  b.  8  Dec,  1850;  d.  31  Aug.,  1888. 

10th.  Reinzi,  b.  5  Mar.,  1853;  mar.  12  June,  1872,  Mary  De 
Forest;  child,  William. 

SEVENTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    11. 

From   Family   No.    5.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Nathan,   James, 
James,  Henry. 

Henry  Brackett  was  born  January  17,  1766,  in  Braintree,  Mass.; 
removed  to  Braintree,   Yt.,  where  he  died  December  13,    1843;  was 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  549 

the  first  settler  in  the  town,  went  there  in  1785;  married  March  19, 
1789,  Eliphal  Burgess,  of  Windham,  Conn.,  who  died  May  12,  1845. 
Issue: 

1.  James,  b.  9  Nov.,  1790;  d.  in  1813. 

2.  Henry,  b.  22  Mar.,  1793.     See  family  30. 

3.  Eliphal,  b.  2  Aug.,  1795;  mar.  1  Nov.,  1829,  Stephen  Mann, 
of  Braintree,  Vt.;  d.  1  Nov.,  1829,  in  Randolph.  Children,  William, 
who  mar.  Riford;  Charles  Brackett,  b.  20  Oct.,  1822,  mar.  Mary  F. 
Mann;  Horatio  E.,  who  mar.  Williams,  dau.  of  a  governor  of  Vt. 

4.  Abigail,  b.  24  May,  1797;  mar.  2  July,  1818,  Rufus  Hutchin- 
son, of  Braintree,  Vt.;  children,  John  Brackett,  an  attorney  in  Ran- 
dolph, who  mar.  Lucretia  Gregory;  Charles,  who  mar.  Jane  Randall; 
Rufus;   Minora;  Eliphal;  George;  Samuel. 

5.  Charles,  b.  9  May,  1799;  mar.  (1st)  15  Jan.,  1826,  Almira 
Parish,  of  Bloomfield,  Vt.,  who  d.  14  Apr.,  1843;  (2nd)  20  Sept., 
1844,  Julia  Spear.     Issue: 

1st.     Marian  E.,  b.   26  May,    1828;  mar.   13  May,    1851,  Hiram 
B.  Bates. 

2nd.     George  P.,  b.  30  Apr.,  1835. 
3d.     Julia  M.,  b.  26  Feb.,  1846. 

6.  Rebecca,  b.  10  July,  1801;  mar.  4  Nov.,  1832,  Cephas  Carpen- 
ter; children,  James,  b.  18  Oct.,  1835;  Elvira,  b.  6  May,  1837;  Henr)% 
b.  22  Nov.,  1840. 

7.  Elizabeth,  b.  26  Jan.,  1804;  mar.  Stephen  Mann,  of  Randolph, 
Mass.;  lived  in  Ferrisburg,  Vt.;   child,  Allison  W. 

8.  Minora,  b.  16  Sept.,  1806;  mar.  2  Oct.,  1827,  Isaac  Tower; 
resided  in  Randolph;  children,  Minora  A.,  who  mar.  Seth  Mann; 
Isaac  H.,  who  mar.  Abby  S.  Belcher;  James  A.;  Eliphal  O.;  Mor- 
ton;  Charles  W.;   Mary  E. 

9.  Ebenezer,  b.  19  Jan.,  1810;  mar.  12  June,  1839,  Orvilla  Spauld- 
ing;   d.  6  June,  1852.     Issue: 

1st.     Edgar  E.,  b.  6  Jan.,  1841;  d.  20  Apr.,  1843. 

2nd.     Edward  E.,  b.  twin  with  Edgar  E.;  d.  20  Dec,  1843. 

3d.     Ellen  Elizabeth,  b.  19  May,  1842. 

4th.     Franklin  Edmund,  b.  12  May,  1844;  d.  12  June,  1845. 

5th.     Minerva  A.,  b.  25  Feb.,  1847;  d.  25  Sept.,  1848. 

6th.     John  M.,  b.  27  Sept.,  1849. 

7th.     Betsey  E.,  b.  8  Apr.,  1850. 

8th.     Clinton  E.,  b.  16  June,  1852. 

10.  Samuel,  b.  25  June,  1812;  never  mar.;  d.  3  July,  1840. 

FAMILY    NO.    12. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  James, 
James,  James. 
James  Brackett  was  born  July  29,  1769,  in  Braintree.  He  served 
in  1786-7  in  Captain  Elisha  Wales'  company  which  operated  with  the 
state  troops  in  the  suppression  of  Shay's  rebellion.  On  one  of  the 
night  marches  twenty-three  men  of  the  company  were  frost-bitten;  for 
forty-five  nights  he  slept  with  his  knapsack  for  a  pillow. 


550  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

During  the  War  of  1812,  while  a  passenger  on  the  "Enterprise," 
a  coaster,  which  sailed  from  Penobscot  for  Boston  with  a  cargo  for 
him  of  firewood  in  the  hold  and  fish  and  lumber  on  the  deck,  on  July 
6,  1 81 2,  in  Boston  bay  it  was  taken  by  the  privateer  "Germantown" 
of  Marblehead,  Mass.,  and  carried  to  that  port.  In  a  letter  which 
appeared  in  the  press  dated  July  14,  1812,  Mr.  Brackett  related  how 
the  "  'Germantown'  valiently  fired  at  and  brought  us  to;"  how  the 
coaster  was  boarded  by  a  prize-master,  who  was  followed  by  the  cap- 
tain of  the  "Germantown,"  who  examined  "our  papers  and  ordered 
us  to  proceed.  We  had  proceeded  about  half  a  mile  when  we  were 
again  fired  at  *  *  boarded  us  a  second  time  and  made  a  bon  prize 
of  us."  At  Marblehead  the  privateers  became  satisfied  of  their  mis- 
take and  settled  with  Mr.  Brackett,  taking  his  cargo  to  Quincy  and 
paying  him  one  dollar  for  each  hour  the  vessel  was  detained.  His 
purpose  in  writing  was  to  let  the  public  know  "who  the  owners  of  the 
privateer  are  which  is  aiding  the  enemy  in  making  war  upon  Ameri- 
can property." 

In  1809,  Mr.  Brackett  built  a  hotel  in  Quincy  near  the  Neponset 
river;  in  the  hotel  a  grand  "peace  ball"  was  held  in  the  spring  of 
1 81 5.  About  1820,  he  was  engaged  in  lumbering  in  Maine;  in  1830, 
purchased  a  farm  in  Greenport,  L.  I.,  where  he  made  his  home  for 
several  years;  removed  to  Philadelphia,  where  shortly  after  he  died 
April  18,  1855.  Married  in  Exeter,  N.  H.,  October  7,  1795,  Eliza- 
beth Odiorne,  born  January  11,  1775,  died  April  18,  1847.     Issue: 

1.  Mary.  b.  9  Sept.,  1796;  mar.  1  Nov.,  1819,  James  Wilcox,  of 
Concord,  Pa.;  children,  Mary  E.,  who  d.  in  1826;  Thomas,  who  d. 
in  1840;  James  M.,  who  mar.  Mary  Keating;  John,  b.  9  Sept.,  1827; 
Joseph,  b.  11  Aug.,  1829;  Mary  E.,  who  d.  in  1846;  Edward  J.,  b.  2 
Jan.,  1834;  Henry-  B.,  b.  24  Nov.,  1838;  Ida,  b.  16  Oct.,  1840. 

2.  Thomas  O.,  b.  16  July,  1799.     See  family  31. 

3.  Joanna,  b.  28  Apr.,  1801;  d.  young.   ' 

4.  Elizabeth  Ann  Greenleaf.  b.  7  Feb.,  1803;  mar.  (1st)  13  May, 
1823,  John  Wilcox,  of  Concord,  Pa.,  who  d.  16  July,  1826;  (2nd)  16 
Nov.,  1830,  Lieut.  John  Marston,  U.  S.  N.,  formerly  of  Quincy;  chil- 
dren, Ellen  J.,  b.  13  May.  1824,  mar.  Howard  Golder,  of  Baltimore; 
Caroline  E.,  b.  17  May,  1826,  mar.  Wm.  H.  Seal,  of  Philadelphia; 
John,  who  d.  28  Feb.,  1833;  John,  b.  15  Dec,  1833,  mar.  Annie  R. 
Marston;  Matthew  R.,  b.  13  Oct.,  1835;  James  H.,  who  d.  24  May, 
[841;   Frank  D.,  b.  9  Aug.,  1847. 

5.  Ellen  Maria,  b.  11  May,  1805;  mar.  2S  July,  1825,  Colonel 
Thomas  Robinson;  d.  27  Jan.,  1845;  children,  six,  all  of  whom  died 
young;  also  Mary,  b.  27  Aug.,  1836;  Thomas,  b.  3  Dec,  1838;  Will- 
iam S.,  b.  7  Sept.,  1840. 

6.  Hannah  Miller,  b.  4  Dec,  1807;  mar.  Henry  B.  Odiorne,  son 
of  Thomas,  of  Maiden;  d.  20  May,  1845;  children,  Henry,  b.  20  Mar., 
1838;  John,  b.  14  June,  1839;  Emma,  b.  18  Mar.,  1842;  Da\id  W., 
b.  27  Mar.,  1845. 

7.  James  Henry,  b.  3  Sept.,  1811;  never  mar.;  d.  24  Jan.,  1848. 

8.  Caroline,  b.  24  June,  1813;  mar.  15  Feb.,  1847,  Col.  Thomas 
Robinson,  who  d.  2  Sept.,  1854;  children,  James  H.,  b.  4  Dec,  1847; 
Nalbro  F.,  b.  23  Aug.,  1851;   Richard  M.,  b.  11  Jan.,  1853. 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  551 

FAMILY    NO.    13. 

From   Family   No.    5.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Nathan,  James, 
James,  Charles. 

Charles  Brackett  was  born  March  4,  1776,  in  Braintree;  married 
(1st)  November  15,  1801,  Betsey  Bugber,  of  Roxbury,  who  died 
May  23,  1809,  in  Quincy;  (2nd)  in  1810,  her  sister  Susannah  Bugber, 
and  removed  to  Randolph,  Vt.;  she  died  June  26,  1864.  Mr.  Brackett 
was  defendant  in  a  suit  brought  by  Mr.  F.  Niles;  after  several  trials 
it  terminated  in  1820,  in  favor  of  the  defendant,  whose  attorney  in  the 
last  trial  was  Daniel  Webster.     Died  January  5,  1856.     Issue: 

1.  Ebenezer,  b.  23  Dec,  1802;  d.  11  Jan.,  1803. 

2.  Ebenezer,  b.  24  June,  1804;  mar.  26  July,  1826,  Abigail  Cur- 
rier Martin,  of  Rochester,  N.  Y.;  had  business  interests  in  Chicago 
and  Cleveland  and  was  part  owner  of  the  Ohio  canal;  in  June,  1839, 
with  a  large  sum  of  money  on  his  person,  he  left  the  boat  on  which  he 
was  traveling,  to  go  into  the  interior  of  the  state,  and  was  never  heard 
from;  it  is  supposed  that  he  was  murdered.     Issue: 

1st.  Caroline  Elizabeth,  b.  31  July,  1828;  mar.  30  Jan.,  1850, 
B.  P.  Whipple,  and  had  dau.  Caroline,  who  d.  young. 

3.  George,  b.  21  Nov.,  1810;  never  mar.;  d.  23  Jan.,  1859,  in 
Lansingburg,  N.  Y. 

4.  Charles,  b.  29  Oct.,  1813;  d.  14  Nov.,  1813. 

5.  Andrew  J.,  b.  14  Feb.,  1815.     See  family  32. 

6.  Charles,  who  d.  4  Mar.,  1837. 

7.  James,  b.  24  Jan.,  1818.     See  family  33. 

8.  William  F.,  b.  5  June,  1820.     See  family  34. 

9.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  24  Jan.,  1825;  mar.  6  Sept.,  1849,  John  W. 
Huntley,  who  d.  14  July,  1854;  mar.  (2nd)  22  Apr.,  1856,  Rev.  Henry 
E.  Parker;  d.  in  July,  1882.     Issue: 

1st.     John  W.,  b.  2  Oct.,  1852;  is  dec. 
2nd.     Mary  L.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1853;  is  dec. 

FAMILY    NO.    14. 

From  Family  No.  5.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  James, 
James,  Lemuel. 
Lemuel  Brackett  was  born  September  8,  1780,  in  Braintree.  In 
1800,  sailed  for  Cadiz,  Spain,  in  schooner,  "Nancy"  one  thousand 
tons,  owned  by  Ebenezer  Parsons,  of  Boston,  with  captain,  mate, 
cook  and  four  hands;  while  at  Cadiz  a  small  vessel  arrived  with  the 
news  of  Washington's  death;  was  twenty-four  days  in  crossing  the 
ocean  and  forty  days  on  return  voya>ge.  January  19,  18 10,  was 
known  in  the  annals  of  New  England  as  the  cold  Friday.  Mr. 
Brackett  related  that  for  several  days  the  weather  was  very  mild;  the 
day  before  with  his  hired  hands  he  had  been  repairing  fences  and  at 
night  the  tools  were  left  in  the  field,  the  men  remarking  how  mild  the 
weather  was;  the  next  morning  the  temperature  had  dropped  many 
degrees  below  zero  and  so  high  a  wind  was  blowing  that  it  was  danger- 
ous to  expose  one's  face  out  of  doors  from  fear  of  freezing;  that  "the 
whole  harbor  was  smoking  like  a  steam  engine;"  the  weather  soon 
became  as  mild  as  before  the  cold  spell.  In  1826,  he  built  for  his 
home  a  house  on  Hancock  street  adjoining  the  property  where  Gov- 


552  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

ernor  John  Hancock  was  born.  Rendered  material  aid  to  Mr.  Jeffrey 
Richardson  in  compiling  his  work  on  the  descendants  of  Captain 
Richard  Brackett.  Late  in  life  he  removed  to  Troy,  N.  Y.,  thence 
to  Lansingburg,  N.  Y.,  where  he  died  Februar}'  14,  1869.  Married 
January  6,  1806,  Sally  Whitney,  born  November  3,  1781,  died  May 
3,  1864,  daughter  of  Reverend  Peter  (Aaron,  Moses,  Moses,  Richard, 
John),  born  September  6,  1744,  and  wife,  Julia  Lambert,  daughter  of 
William,  of  Reading.     Issue: 

1.  Samuel  E.,  b.  7  Oct.,  1806.     See  family  35. 

2.  Sally  Whitney,  b.  7  Jan.,  1808;  mar.  16  Sept.,  1828,  Jeffrey 
Richardson,  of  Boston,  iron  merchant;  d.  2  Dec,  1837;  children, 
Jeffrey,  who  d.  24  Dec,  1829;  Jeffrey,  b.  19  July,  1831;  William, 
who  d.  2  June,  1835;  Sally  Brackett,  b.  12  Mar.,  1836,  mar.  White, 
of  Boston. 

3.  Rebecca  Richardson,  b.  26  Mar.,  1809;  mar.  28  July,  1840, 
William  L.  Whitney,  of  Cambridge;  d.  3  Dec,  1881;  children,  Lucy 
A.,  b.  14  Aug.,  1841;  William  Lambert,  b.  1  Feb.,  1844,  resides  in 
West  Newton,  Mass.;  Julia  A.,  b.  1  Aug.,  1847,  mar.  Wright,  resides 
in  Montpelier,  Vt. 

4.  James,  b.  26  Nov.,  18 10;  was  in  furniture  business;  resided  in 
Cambridge;  mar.  31  Jan.,  1856,  Susan  Elizabeth  Whitney;  d.  in 
Aug.,  18-7.     No  issue. 

5.  Julia  Lambert,  b.  13  Jan.,  1812;  mar.  27  June,  1839,  Jeffrey 
Richardson;  d.  31.  Jan.,  1879;  children,  William  Lambert,  b.  6  Sept., 
1842;  infant,  b.  and  d.  17  Aug.,  1846. 

6.  Nancy,  b.  31  Aug.,  1813;  never  mar.;   d.  15  Mar.,  1898. 

7.  Jeffrey  R.,  b.  29  Oct.,  1815.     See  family  36. 

FAMILY    NO.    15. 

From   Family   No.    6.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Nathan,   James, 
Samuel,  James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  May  10,  1777;  was  a  drover  in  Peter- 
boro,  N.  H.;  removed  to  Antrim,  N.  H.,  where  he  died  March  16, 
1861;  was  a  shoemaker  by  trade;  married  in  1803,  Hannah  Carr,  born 
May  16,  1784,  who  died  March  21,  1867,  daughter  of  Elder  James 
Carr,  of  Antrim,  and  wife,  Ann  Patterson,  born  November  25,  1752, 
died  December  11,  1838.     Issue: 

1.  Jonathan,  b.  2  July,  1804,  in  Peterboro;  never  mar.;  d.  23 
Apr.,  1835. 

2.  Ann  C,  b.  4  Feb.,  1806;  mar.  in  May,  1833,  John  W.  Wallace. 

3.  Sally  W.,  b.  6  June,  1808;  mar.  (1st)  James  Smith,  of  Antrim; 
.(2nd)  George  Merrill,  of  Cambridgeport,  Mass.;   d.  in  1877. 

4.  Betsey  H.,  b.  6  Sept.,  1S10,  in  Peterboro;  mar.  30  Jan.,  1834, 
Thomas  Twiss,  of  Antrim. 

5.  Hannah  J.,  b.  1  Jan.,  1813,  in  Antrim;  mar.  26  May,  1840, 
John  McClure;  resided  in  Revere,  Mass. 

0.     James  C,  b.  27  June,  1815,     See  family  36A. 
7.     Silas  D.,  b.  27  Oct.,  1817;  d.  24  June,  1884;  resided  in  Nashua: 
mar.  20  June,  1844,  Sophia  H.  Peacock,  of  Nashua.     Issue: 

1st.     Ella  S.,  b.  28  June,  1846;  is  dec. 

2nd.     Ida  Maria,  b.  16  Dec,  1848;  is  dec. 

3d.     Llewellyn  S.,  b.  6  Sept.,  1855;  home,  in  Waltham,  Mass. 

4th.     Luella  S.,  b.  6  Sept.,  1855;  is  dec. 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  553 

8.  Clarinda  H.,  b.  20  Mar.,  1820;  mar.  1  Dec,  1842,  John  Little, 
of  Antrim;  resided  in  Cambridgeport;  in  1907,  she  was  living  in 
Providence,  K.I. 

9.  Mary  A.,  b.  5  July,  1822;  mar.  31  June,  1843,  Luther  Camp- 
bell, of  Antrim. 

10.  Henry  T.,  b.  30  July,  1827;  removed  to  Cambridgeport;  liv- 
ing in  1907;  mar.  in  July,  1847,  Sarah  Jane  Harris;  (2nd)  Hannah 
Wadleigh,  of  Bangor,  Me.     Issue: 

1st.     Emma  Jane,  b.  10  July,  1851;   d.  at  age  of  13  years. 
2nd.      William  W.,  b.  7  Nov.,  1862,  in  Watertown,  Mass.;  lives 
in  Middleboro. 

FAMILY    NO.   16. 

From   Family   No.    6.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Nathan,   James, 
Samuel,  Josiah. 

Josiah  Brackett  was  born  January  28,  1779,  in  Peterboro,  where 
he  resided;  wandered  in  the  woods  and  was  frozen  to  death  January 
31,  1S55;, married  April  9,  1800,  Mary  Stewart,  who  died  May  6,  1871, 
daughter  of  Thomas  and  wife,  Elizabeth.     Issue: 

1.  Rebecca,  b.  6  July,  1801;  mar.  (1st)  Joel  Tufts,  who  d.  7  May, 
1852;   (2nd)  14  May,  i860,  Col.  Norton  Hunt. 

2.  Jane  S.,  b.  18  Dec,  1802;  mar.  Nathan  Bailey. 

3.  Mary,  b.  31  Dec,  1804;  mar.  Samuel  G.  Pierce. 

4.  Josiah,  b.  11  Feb.,  1807;  resided  in  Peterboro;  mar.  19  Mar., 
1835,  Mary  Piper;  children,  Anne,  b.  17  Nov.,  1836;  George,  b.  18 
Dec,  1837;  Jackson,  b.  5  Apr.,  1839;  Maria  Louisa,  b.  1  Feb.,  1841; 
John  Piper,  b.  3  June,  1842;  Rosanna,  b.  11  Apr.,  1844;  Joel  Tufts, 
who  d.  26  Aug.,  1 851;  Charles,  who  d.  24  Aug.,  1851;  Albert  Lewis, 
who  d.  25  Aug.,  1 851;  the  last  three  named  died  from  dysentery  and 
were  buried  in  the  same  grave;  Mary  Rebecca,  b.  24  Jan.,  1857. 

5.  Thomas  S.,  b.  11  Dec,  1808;  mar.  19  Apr.,  1837,  Rebecca 
Tufts,  who  d.  17  July,  1853;  children,  Ann  R.,  b.  7  Jan.,  1838; 
Sarah  E.,  b.  31  Mar.,  1842. 

6.  Elizabeth  S.,  b.  16  Feb.,  1811;  mar.  in  1846,  Nathan  B.  Bliss. 

7.  Joseph,  b.  26  May,  1815;  mar.  1  Oct.,  1846,  Lucretia  L.  Hunt; 
resided  in  Lempster,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1st.     Charles  Albert,  b.  2  Jan.,  1850. 
2nd.     Laura  L.,  b.  1  Apr.,  1854. 

8.  Sarah,  b.  8  June,  1820;  mar  Albert  P.  Brown;  lived  in  Am- 
herst, N.  H. 

9.  Charles,  b.  24  June,  1823;  d.  in  1846. 

FAMILY    NO.    17. 

From   Family   No.  6.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Nathan,   James, 
Samuel,  Isaac. 
Isaac  Brackett  was  born  July  1,  1781,  in  Peterboro;  removed  to 
Charlestown.Mass.;  married  March  22,  1807,  Nancy  Field,  of  Quincy, 
daughter  of  Joel;  in  1857,  celebrated  their  golden  wedding.     Issue: 

1.  Benjamin  F.,  b.  23  Sept.,  1808.     See  family  37. 

2.  Ebenezer  Willard,  b.  in  1809;  mar.  12  Mar.,  1830,  Susan 
Malone.     Issue: 

1st.     Elizabeth  Ann.  b.  1  Oct.,  1831. 
2nd.     Isaac  Willard,  b.  16  July,  1835. 


554  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

3.  Elizabeth  Ann,  b.  28  Oct.,  1811;  mar.  27  Nov.,  1831,  John 
Wales;  resided  in  Bridgewater,  Mass.;  children,  John,  who  mar. 
Susan  H.  Rogers,  of  Boston;  Olive  E.,  who  mar.  Martin  Wales,  Jr., 
of  Stoughton,  Mass.;  Susan  J  ,  who  d.  6  July,  1.841;  Edward  C,  b. 
11  June,  1840;  George  E.,  who  d.  18  Feb.,  1843;  George  W.,  b.  28 
Sept.;  1845;   Frank  E.,  b.  6  Feb.,  1847. 

4.  Martha  Baxter,  b.  5  Mar.,  1824. 

FAMILY    NO.    18. 

From   Family   No.   6.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Nathan,   James, 
Samuel,  William. 

William  Brackett  was  born  May  11,  1786,  in  Peterboro,  N.  H.; 
removed  to  Colebrook,  N.  H.,  where  he  resided  until  his  death,  April 
19,  1835;  was  a  farmer.  Married  December  27,  1812,  Sarah  Ward, 
b.  November  16,  1792,  died  December  20,  1862;  her  parents  resided 
in  Henniker,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Samuel  Hayward,  b.  29  Sept.,  1813;  resided  in  Colebrook; 
mar.  21  Feb.,  1837,  Elizabeth  M.  Wiggin.     Issue: 

1st.     Charles  William,  b.  27  Apr.,  1838. 
2nd.     Emma  Abby,  b.  23  Sept.,  1842. 
3d.     Philena,  b.  12  Apr.,  1846. 
4th.     Ella  E.,  b.  24  May,  1856. 

2.  Leonora,  b.  3  May,  1815;  mar.  21  Jan.,  1838,  Columbus  Jewett. 

3.  George  Ward,  b.  6  Apr.,  1818;  mar.  (1st)  2  Nov.,  1842,  Sarah 
M.  Lewis,  of  Townsend,  Mass.,  who  d.  3  July,  1844;  (2nd)  2  May, 
1845,  Mary  A.  Field,  of  Peterboro,  who  d.  3  July,  1846,  (3d)  25  Dec, 
1S46,  Bathsheba  Eldridge,  of  Exeter,  N.  H.;  removed  to  Everett, 
Mass.,  where  he  d.  in  1884.     Issue: 

1st.  George  Frederick,  b.  2  Sept.,  1854;  resides  in  Kingston, 
Mass.;  mar.  Cora  E.  Merrill,  dau.  of  Albert,  of  Lovell,  Me. 

4.  Paulina,  b.  23  Apr.,  1820;  mar.  1  Aug.,  1848,  Carlos  Child,  b. 
about  1813;  d.  19  Mar.,  1857. 

5.  John,  b.  1  Oct.,  1822.     See  family  38. 

6.  Rebecca  H.,  b.  23  Oct.,  1824;  mar.  3  Sept.,  1856,  Daniel 
Cogswell. 

7.  Joseph,  b.  12  Oct.,  1827.     See  family  39. 
-  8.     Sarah,  b.  19  Apr.,  1832. 

FAMILY    NO.    19. 

From   Family   No.    6.     Descent:      Richard,   James,   Nathan,   James, 
Samuel,  Ebenezer. 

Ebenezer  Brackett  was  born  November  27,  1788;  married  October 
1,  1817,  Clarissa  Hildreth,  who  died  October  16,  1837;  he  died  March 
19,  1830.     Issue: 

1.  Sarah,  b.  2  July,  1818;  mar.  29  Oct.,  1838,  Charles  Parker; 
lived  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

2.  Samuel,  b.  4  Feb.,  1820;  mar.  15  May,  1845,  Esther  Sterling, 
who  d.  25  Aug.,  1858.     Issue: 

1st.     Celeste  H.,  b.  10  Oct.,  1846. 

3.  Augusta,  b.  19  Sept.,  1821;  mar.  12  Dec,  1841,  Isaac  Hawes. 

4.  George,  b.  25  Aug.,  1823;  mar.  10  Sept.,  1851,  Mary  Ann 
Sterling,  sister  of  Esther;  resided  in  Brooklyn.     Issue: 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  555 

1st.     Charles  P.,  b.  16  July,  1852. 

2nd.     Marion  A.,  b.  25  Sept.,  1853;  d.  young. 

3d.     George  W.,  b.  23  Oct.,  1855. 

4th.     Clarissa  H.,  b.  22  Sept.,  1857;  d.  young. 

5.  Mary  J.,  b.  13  Oct.,  1825;  mar.  n  Nov.,  1850,  John  A.  Patten, 
carpenter;  resided  in  Boston.     No  issue. 

6.  Caroline,  b.  21  Mar.,  1827;  mar.  3  Dec,  1846,  Abner  B.  gor- 
ing;  d.  9  Oct.,  1857. 

FAMILY    NO.    20. 

From   Family   No.   6.     Descent:     Richard,   James,   Nathan,   James, 
Samuel,  Benjamin. 

Benjamin  Brackett  was  born  August  21,  1795;  resided  in  Peter- 
boro,  N.  H.;  married  (1st)  March  22,  1825,  Lavina  Cunningham; 
married  (2nd)  Sally  Wilcox,  of  Nashua,  N.  H.;  died  February  2, 
1876.     Issue: 

1.  Samuel,  b.  27  Dec,  1825;  resided  in  Peterboro,  Waltham  and 
Boston;  was  constable  in  police  court;  mar.  22  Mar.,  1847,  Sarah 
Palmer,  b.  5  Dec,  1814,  d.  15  June,  1886,  dau.  of  Jeduthum  Palmer 
and  wife,  Sally  Turner,  of  Pembroke,  Mass.;  d.  23  Apr.,  1889.     Issue: 

1st.     Sarah,  b.  and  d.  in  1848. 

2nd.     Frederick  H.,  b.  26  Apr.,  1849;  d.  in  1853. 

3d.     Mary  Cora,  b.  7  Mar.,  1858;  resides  in  Peterboro,  N.  H. 

2.  Henry,  b.  11  Sept.,  1827;  d.'n  Oct.,  1849. 

3.  Joseph,  b.  24  Nov.,  1829;  never  mar. 

4.  George  G.,  b.  13  Sept.,  1833;  never  mar. 

5.  Sarah  A.,  b.  26  Nov.,  1836;  principal  of  licensed  minor's 
school  in  Boston. 

<>.     William  C,  b.  25  June,  1858;  never  mar. 

7.  Rodney,  never  mar. 

FAMILY    NO.    21. 

From  Family  No.  7.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  John, 
Christopher,  Ezra. 
Ezra  Brackett  was  born  in  1772  in  Bennington,  Vt.;  was  a  farmer; 
resided  in  Elbridge,  N.  Y.,  until  late  in  life;  in  1838,  removed  with 
his  son  Ezra,  to  Corvis,  Mich.,  where  he  died  in  1850;  married  July 
a6,  1797,  Elizabeth  Madison,  b.  in  1769,  d.  in  1835.     Issue: 

1.  Reuben,  b.  in  1798;  mar.  in  1825,  Caroline  Wheeler.     No  issue. 

2.  Christopher,  b.  in  1799;   d.  5  May,  1826. 

3.  Elizabeth,  b.  in  1802;  mar.  Crosby;  d.  in  1834. 

4.  Cynthia,  b.  15  June,  1804;  mar.  Z.  Jones;  d.  18  Mar.,  1890. 

5.  Ezra,  b.  18  Oct.,  1805.     See  family  40. 

6.  Isaac,  b.  in  1807;  d.  in  Aug.,  181 1. 

7.  Martin  S.,  b.  19  Dec,  1810.     See  family  41. 

FAMILY    NO.    22. 

From  Family  No.  8.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  Nathan, 
Samuel,  Apollos. 
Apollos  Brackett  was  born  in  1792,  in  Buckland,  Mass.;  was  a 
shoemaker  and  farmer;  for  a  time  lived  in  Virginia  where  he  married 


556  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

his  first  wife;  about  the  time  of  her  death  he  returned  to  Buckland 
where  he  resided  until  his  death  in  July,  1862.  Married  (2nd)  in 
October,  1825,  Lucretia  Ward,  born  October  24.  1793,  died  in  Janu- 
ary, 1854,  daughter  of  John  and  wife,  Lois  Cranston,  who  resided  in 
Ashfield  and  Buckland.     Issue: 

1.  Samuel,  b.  in  1828;  mar.  Eliza  Stetson;  d.  in  1898.     Issue: 
1st.     Eliza  Y.,  who  mar.  Miller  Mantor;  resides  in  Buckland. 
2nd.     Flora  L.,  mar.  Charles  Bahmer,  who  is  dec;  she  resides 

in  New  Britain,  Conn. 

2.  Lucretia,  b.  in  1830;  home,  in  Shelburne  Falls,  Mass.;  sup- 
plied data  relative  to  descendants  of  her  grandfather,  other  than  as 
noted. 

3.  Caroline,  b.  in  1833;  mar.  Sanderson  Ruddock;  children, 
Ehvin  L.,  who  resides  in  Shelburne,  Mass.;  Wesley  and  Orie  L., 
who  reside  in  Buckland. 

4.  Apollos,  b.  in  1837;  resides  in  Shelburne  Falls;  mar.  Ruth  C. 
Eldridge  who  d.  2  Dec,  1900;  had  dau.  Anna  Maria  who  d.  17  Jan., 
1890,  when  nearly  22  years  old. 

FAMILY    NO.    23. 

From  Family  No.  9.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  Nathan, 
Benjamin,  Jonathan. 

Jonathan  Brackett  was  born  December  19,  1792,  in  Lynn,  Mass.; 
resided  in  Hawley,  Mass.,  where  he  died  July  22,  1867;  married 
Sarah  Rawson,  born  March  17,  1797,  died  January  22,   1877.     Issue: 

1.  Jonathan,  b.  22  Feb.,  1825;  mar.  Mary  Dyer.  No  further 
record. 

2.  Luana,  b.  25  Mar.,  1827,  in  Buckland;  mar.  11  Feb.,  1857, 
Sereuo  M.  Shofner,  farmer,  b.  6  Jan.,  1824,  d.  3  Feb.,  1883,  son  of 
Martin  and  wife,  Martha  A.  Streeter,  who  were  mar.  18  Sept.,  1822, 
in  Georgia  and  moved  to  Rowe,  Mass.,  in  1828;  resided  in  Rowe  to 
1868  when  they  removed  to  Manchester,  la.     Issue: 

1st.     Sereno  Allen,  b.  17  Apr.,  1858;  resides  in  Manchester,  la. 
2nd.     Rosa  Luana,  b.  11  Dec,  1867;  mar.  28  Nov.,  1894,  Robert 
M.  Merriam;  home,  in  Ryan,  la.     Issue: 

I.  Harlan,  b.  12  Jan.,  1897. 

II.  Donald  Sereno,  b.  8  May,  1901. 

3.  Sarah,  b.  13  June,  1828;  mar.  7  Feb.,  1887,  Loring  Hastings, 
b.  26  Oct.,  1814,  d.  28  Mar.,  1903;   home,  in  Westboro,  Mass. 

4.  Allen,  b.  2  May,  1830;  d.  23  Dec,  1853. 

5.  Nelson,  b.  7  Feb.,  1832;  d.  17  Dec,  1883. 

(').  Freeman,  b.  8  Sept.,  1S33;  d.  11  July,  1864,  at  City  Point,  Va. 
Served  in  co.  G,  37th  Mass.  vol.  inf.,  en.  30  Aug.,  1862. 

7.  Mary  E.,  b.  15  Dec,  1835;  mar.  18  Nov.,  1871,  Stillman  F. 
Whitman,  b.  12  Mar.,  1825,  d.  19  Feb.,  1895,  son  of  Ebenezer  and 
wife,  Sylvia  Ford;  child,  Carrie  Augusta,  b.  25  Mar.,  1873,  d.  2  Aug., 
1873- 

8.  Emily  A.,  b.  18  Nov.,  1837;  mar.  Mark  Vincent. 

9.  William  H.,  b.  26  June,  1840.     See  family  42. 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  557 

FAMILY    NO.    24. 
From  Family  No.  9.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,   Nathan, 
Benjamin,  Ezra. 

Ezra  Brackett  was  born  January  17,  1795,  in  Ashfield,  Mass.; 
was  a  farmer  in  Goshen,  where  he  died  November  15,  1885,  in  the 
ninety-first  year  of  his  age;  married  Hannah  Cobb,  born  in  1799, 
died  February  1,  1863.     Issue: 

1.  Susannah,  b.  26  Oct.,  1816;  mar.  Henry  T.  Godfrey;  d.  21 
Jan.,  1900;  children,  John  H.;  Sarah  E.;  Anson  and  Alanson,  twins; 
Daniel;   Herbert;   Charles. 

2.  Hannah  Cobb,  b.  18  Apr.,  1818;  mar.  16  May,  1840,  Anson  W. 
Godfrey;  d.  9  Sept.,  1882;  had  dau.  Alice. 

3.  Eliza,  b.  in  1821;   d.  18  Jan.,  1858. 

4.  Sarah  Ann,  b.  in  1826;  d.  6  Mar.,  1842. 

5.  Ruth,  b.  15  Apr.,  1828;  mar.  29  June,  1848,  Newman  W. 
Bartlett;   children,  Clifford;   Sarah  and  May,  twins;  Lizzie. 

6.  Harriette,  b.  in  1831;  d.  12  Nov.,  1834. 

7.  Lois,  b.  in  1833;   d.  14  Nov.,  1834. 

8.  Olive  P.,  b.  12  Nov.,  1835;  mar.  (1st)  22  Mar.,  1858,  William 
Porter;  (2nd)  3  May,  1864,  Roswell  A.  Pratt;  home,  in  East  Hamp- 
ton, Mass.;  child,  Martha  Estella. 

9.  Ezra  Martin,  b.  8  May,  1839;  mechanic;  mar.  22  Feb.,  1862, 
Alice  L.  Prentice,  b.  25  Nov.,  1839;  was  a  soldier  in  civil  war,  en- 
listed in  1862;  home,  in  Florence,  Mass. 

10.  Ellen  J.,  b.  8  June,  1842;  mar.  7  Jan.,  i860,  Herman  H. 
White;   d.  9  Dec,  18S6;  children,  William;  Eddie  and  Edith. 

FAMILY  NO.  25. 
From  Family  No.  10.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  John  A. 
John  Adams  Brackett  was  born  September  16,  1798,  in  Ashfield, 
Mass.;  a  cooper  and  farmer.  Married  (1st)  at  Grafton,  N.  Y.,  Eliza 
Chase,  who  died  January  14,  1833,  is  buried  in  Warren's  private  ceme- 
tery in  Pittstown,  N.  Y.;    (2nd)  Abigail  M.  Sturges  who  died  about 

1855,  daughter  of Sturges  and  wife,  Margaret  Brayton;  resided 

in  Pittstown,  Wilton,  Bald  Mountain  and  Saratoga  Springs,  N.  Y., 
in  the  order  named;  died  January  4,  1871,  in  Saratoga  Springs. 
Issue,  by  wife  Eliza  Chase: 

1.  James  S.,  b.  29  Jan.,  1823.     See  family  43. 

2.  William  W.,  b.  14  Jan.,  1825.     See  family  44. 

3.  Henry  R.,  b.  18  Sept.,  1872.     See  family  45. 

4.  John,  who  d.  in  infancy. 

Issue,  by  wife  Abigail  M.  Sturges: 

5.  George  R.,  b.  26  Sept.,  1835.     See  family  46. 

6.  Polly,  b.  12  Apr.,  1837;  d.  in  1866  at  Bald  Mountain  in 
Washington  co.,  N.  Y.;  mar.  Elisha  Sherman.     Issue: 

1st.     John. 

7.  Eliza  M.,  b.  5  Oct.,  1848,  in  Wilton,  N.  Y.;  home,  in  Liberty, 
N.  Y.;  mar.  18  Mar.,  1864,  Cornelius  H.  Ott,  carpenter,  later,  art 
embroiderer,  b.  23  Dec,  1833,  d.  15  Feb.,  1874,  son  of  Smith  J.  and 
wife,  Lucinda  Betts,  of  Moreau,  N.  Y.;  Mrs.  C.  H.  Ott  has  resided 
in  Wilton,  Seneca  Falls,  Valley  Falls,  Saratoga  and  New  York  city, 
in  the  order  named;   her  business  is  art  embroideries.     Issue: 


558  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.     Nettie  L-,  b.  4  Sept.,  1866;  home,  in  Liberty,  N.  Y. 

2nd.     Cora  A.,  b.  16  Aug.,  1868;  d.  4  Aug.,  1872. 

3d.  Orrin  J.,  b.  25  Oct.,  1870;  served  in  war  with  Spain  as 
private  in  co.  G.,  71st  N.  Y.  vol.  inf.;  mar.  24  Sept.,  1895,  Emma 
See;  home,  at  252  W.  133d  St.,  N.  Y.  city.     Issue: 

I.  Florence,  b.  10  Nov.,  1896;  d.  5  Apr.,  1899. 

II.  Herbert  Clifford,  b.  27  June,  1900. 

4th.  Harriet,  b.  26  Sept.,  1874;  d.  5  Dec,  1899;  mar.  4  Jan., 
1899,  Albert  S.  Coleman. 

8.  Harriet,  b.  12  Apr.,  1852;  d.  in  Saratoga  Springs  about  1863; 
mar.  John  Fryer.     Issue: 

1st.     Charles  Grant. 
2nd.     Edna. 

9.  John  Adams,  Jr.,  b.  25  Oct.,  1839;  in  the  civil  war  served  in 
Ellsworth's  Avengers,  144th  New  York  vol.  inf.  was  promoted  Corp., 
then  Sergt.;  at  Gettysburg  when  the  color  bearer  of  the  regiment  was 
killed  he  took  the  colors,  was  himself  shot  2  July,  1863;  lay  on  the 
battle  field  to  9  July,  and  d.  either  the  19th  or  22nd  of  July,  1863. 

FAMILY    NO.    26. 

From  Family  No.  10.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  James  A. 
James  Alanson  Brackett  was  born  March  5,  1800,  in  Buckland, 
N.  Y.  Upon  the  death  of  his  father,  at  which  time  he  was  twelve 
years  old,  he  was  bound  out  until  he  should  become  of  age;  during 
this  period  his  life  was  a  very  unhappy  one.  His  native  ability 
gained  for  him  a  fair  education;  his  fondness  for  books  materially 
improved  his  schooling — was  self-taught.  After  his  marriage  he 
spent  one  and  one-half  years  in  Cincinnatus,  N.  Y.,  with  his  brother 
William,  in  a  store;  then  removed  to  Hannibal  Center,  N.  Y.,  where 
he  lived  the  remainder  of  his  life.  Purchased  a  grist  mill  and  cloth 
works  of  a  pioneer  in  Hannibal  Center  by  the  name  of  Burroughs, 
and  soon  after  purchased  a  farm  from  the  same  party;  some  years 
later  he  sold  the  mill  and  thenceforth  gave  his  attention  to  farming  at 
which  he  was  eminently  successful.  Was  one  of  the  foremost  and 
best  known  men  in  his  community;  a  devoted  member  of  the  Metho- 
dist Episcopal  church,  a  class  leader,  superintendent  of  Sunday  school 
and  even  janitor  of  the  old  schoolhouse,  in  which  for  many  years  ser- 
vices were  held.  Through  his  efforts  and  liberality  a  church  edifice 
was  erected  in  1865.  Died  November  25,  1868;  married  about  1825, 
vSarah  Sherman,  of  Rhinebeck,  N.  Y.,  born  June  27,  1805,  died  March 
7,  1886,  daughter  of  Joseph  and  wife,  Sarah  Eawton,  of  Coeymans, 
Albany  co.,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1.  Achsah,  b.  26  May,  1826;  mar.  Benedict  Wetherby,  who  d.  22 
March,  1866;  d.  6  Apr.,  1868.     Issue: 

1st.  Charles  B.,  b.  31  July,  1858;  mar.  2  Nov.,  1886,  Amy  C. 
Dann,  of  Fulton,  N.  Y.;  dau.,  Mabel  B.,  b.  19  Mar.,  1889. 

2nd.  William  B.,  b.  9  June,  1865;  mar.  6  Sept.,  1887,  LUHe  E. 
Tidd,  of  Minetto,  N.  Y. 

2.  Eevi,  b.  28  July,  1830.     See  family  47. 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  559 

FAMILY   NO.    27. 

From  Family  No.  10.     Descent;     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  William  W. 

William  Watson  Brackett  was  born  May  6,  1802,  in  Delhi,  N.  Y.; 
was  a  merchant  in  Hannibal  Center,  N.  Y.,  where  he  died  November 
27,  1876.  Married  (1st)  Julia  Flower,  daughter  of  his  mother's 
brother;  (2nd)  June  8,  1837,  Sally  Ann  Teller,  daughter  of  Rev. 
Isaac  Teller;  she  died  June  12,  1892.     Issue: 

By  his  first  wife  he  had  six  children  of  whom  one  lived  to  matur- 
ity, viz: 

1.  Rebecca  A.,  mar.  Alexander  Hulett,  who  d.  in  1893;  d.  in 
1898,  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1st.     Ella,  who  d.  13  Mar.,  1902. 

2.  Isaac  Teller,  b.  22  Apr.,  1838.     See  family  48. 

3.  William  H.,  b.  26  Aug.,  1841.     See  family  49. 

4.  James  Watson,  b.  18  Apr.,  1845;  mar.  Elizabeth  Ketchum; 
home,  in  Hannibal,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1st.     Fred,  b.  1  Jan.,  1866. 

2nd.     William  Watson,  b.  in  Nov.,  1868. 

5.  Franklin  Taylor,  b.  17  Oct.,  1848;  d.  27  Apr.,  1864. 

6.  Anna  E.,  b.  6  Sept.,  1852,  in  Hannibal  Center,  N.  Y.;  home, 
in  Martville,  Cayuga  co.,  N.  Y.;  mar.  4  Mar.,  1874,  Herson  J.  Lewis, 
b.  4  Sept.,  1847,  farmer  and  commercial  salesman,  son  of  Dyer  P. 
and  wife,  Betsey  E.  Hill,  of  Martville.     Issue: 

1st.     Velorus  P.,  b.  6  Jan.,  1875;  resides  at  New  Castle,  Pa. 

2nd.  Ray  Brackett,  b.  25  Nov.,  1876;  mar.  11  Mar.,  1903, 
Clara  Hally;  home,  in  Stanford,  Conn. 

3d.     Charles  H.,  b.  11  Aug.,  1879;  home,  in  Martville. 

4th.  Bertha  E.,  b.  2  Sept.,  1881;  mar.  18  Nov.,  1904,  Bert  D. 
Simpson;  home,  in  Martville. 

5th.     William  D.,  b.  28  Sept.,  1885;  resides  in  Stamford,  Conn. 

6th.     Lena  Mae,  b.  25  May,  1889. 

7th.     Rebecca  L.,  b.;4  Mar.,  1892.    ' 

8th.     Florence  Margurite,  b.  14  Sept.,  1898. 

7.  Charles  H.,  b.  30  Oct.,  1855.     See  family  50. 

FAMILY  NO.  28. 
From  Family  No.  10.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  Truman  F. 
Truman  F.  Brackett  was  born  March  23,  1806,  in  Delhi,  N.  Y.; 
was  a  farmer  in  Hannibal  Center  and  Ira,  N.  Y.,  in  which  latter 
place  he  died  July  29,  1876.  Married  September  6,  1831,  Phebe 
Perkins,  born  June  23,  1813,  died  April  1,  1880,  daughter  of  Job  and 
wife,  Phebe  Herrington  (?)  of  Hebron,  N.  Y.,  later  of  Hannibal. 
Her  death  which  occurred  at  the  home  of  her  son,  Truman  F.,  was 
from  consumption;  her  parents  removed  from  Hebron  to  Hannibal 
about  1816-  the  greater  part  of  her  life  was  spent  in  Ira.     Issue: 

1  Sarah  Jane,  b.  29  Jan.,  1833;  d.  10  May,  1882;  mar.  8  Mar., 
1854  William  T.  Matson,  b.  3  Oct.,  1830,  in  Ira,  N.  Y.,  farmer  and 
surveyor,  justice  of  the  peace  for  30  years;  resides  in  Flondaville,  N. 
Y.,  son  of  Eli  S.,  b.  12  Feb.,  1796,  and  wife,  Delia  Townsend,  of  Ira, 
Cayuga  co.,  N.  Y.     Issue: 


560  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1st.  Willis  Eli,  b.  27  May,  1857;  mar.  3  Nov.,  1881,  Matie 
Taylor;  home,  in  South  Hannibal,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

I.  Walter  Scott,  b.  18  July,  1884. 

II.  Homer  EH,  b.  20  July,  1889. 

III.  Sarah  Adele,  b.  18  Mar.,  1892. 

2nd.  Cora  Adele,  b.  7  Jan.,  1859;  mar.  25  Nov.,  1896,  Eugene 
C.  Dolsou;  home,  in  Floridaville,  N.  Y. 

3d.  James  Truman,  b.  9  July,  1861;  mar.  24  Jan.,  1884,  Hattie 
L.  Hawkins;  home,  in  South  Hannibal. 

4th.     Stella  Jane,  b.  29  May,  1864;  resides  in  New  York  city. 

5th.  Harvey  Townsend,  b.  3  May,  1866;  mar.  3  Mar.,  1886, 
Calista  Osborn;  home,  in  Hannibal,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

I.  Robert,  b.  28  Jan.,  1887. 

II.  Alice  M.,  b.  19  Feb.,  1892. 

III.  Harry,  b.  22  Oct.,  1893. 

IV.  John  W.,  b.  25  Feb.,  1899. 

V.  Helen,  b.  4  June,  1901. 

6th.  Alice  Pauline,  b.  7  Jan.,  1868;  mar.  7  Dec,  1889,  Fred 
Warner;  home,  in  Redwood  Falls,  Minn.     Issue: 

I.  Florence  L,.,  b.  23  May,  1891. 

II.  Leon  W.,  b.  22  Jan.,  1893;  d.  12  Aug.,  1901. 

III.  Harry  F.,  b.  6  Apr.,  1895. 

7th.  Frank  Brackett,  b.  10  Oct.,  1869;  dealer  in  furs  and  hides 
in  Floridaville,  N.  Y. 

8th.  Roderick  Nathaniel,  b.  1  Nov.,  1872;  admitted  to  the  bar 
in  1897,  in  New  York;  removed  to  Cheyenne,  Wyo.;  member  of  the 
legislature;  appointed  judge  of  the  district  court,  First  district. 

9th.     Phebe  Anna,  b.  4  Apr.,  1874;   mar.  10  Apr.,  1891,  Vernon 
G.  Albright;  home,  in  Dysander,  N.  Y.     Issue: 
I.     Anna  Belle,  b.  19  Jan.,  1895. 

2.  James  H.,  b.  15  Oct.,  1835.     See  family  51. 

3.  Truman  Franklin,   b.    7    July,     1844;    mar.    Zada  Thompson; 
resides  in  Kilgore,  Neb.;  has  one  son,  Arylin,  who  is  mar. 

4.  Julia  Ann,  b.  19  Dec,  1847;  mar.  Charles  Hoag;  home,  in  Ira, 
N.  Y.      Issue: 

1st.     James. 

5.  William  J.,  b.  22  June,  1852.     See  family  52. 

FAMILY    NO.    29. 

From  Family  No.   10.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  Harry  A. 

Henry  A.  Brackett  was  born  January  26,  1810,  in  Delhi,  N.  Y.; 
for  thirty  years  preceding  his  death  he  lived  near  Weedsport,  N.  Y.: 
was  a  member  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  church  for  forty  years,  a 
thorough,  earnest  consistent  Christian.  He  died  February  7,  1884, 
on  Thursday;  he  had  been  quite  well  on  Monday  of  the  week,  and  on 
that  day  did  hard  work;  was  taken  sick  on  Tuesday.  Had  resided  in 
Hannibal  and  Auburn;  was  a  farmer.  Married  (1st)  in  1837,  Ada- 
line  Brown,  born  in  1822,  died  in  1852;  (2nd)  in  1853,  Docelia  Austin, 
daughter  of  James  and  wife,  Rhoda  Watts.     Issue: 

1.     James,  b.   21   Dec,  1841;   mar.   Hattie  Miller;   home,  in  Onon- 
daga, N.  Y.     Issue: 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  561 

1st.     Charles  D.,  b.  15  Apr.,  1874;  resides  in  Baltimore,  Md.;  is 
mar.  and  has  son,  Edwin  B. 

2.  Charles,  b.  11  Dee.,  1845;  d.  22  Sept.,  1871. 

3.  Alvin,  b.  17  Feb.,  1853;   d.  in  1853. 

4.  Lorila,  b.  17  June,  i860;  mar.  14  Mar.,  1894,  Sewell  H.  Haz- 
ard, b.  14  Oct.,  1835,  son  of  Henry  and  wife,  Sally  L-amphire,  of  Vic- 
tory, N.  Y.,  a  farmer;  resides  in  Granby,  Oswego  eo.,  N.  Y.  No 
issue. 


EIGHTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY    NO.    30. 

From  Family  No.   11.     Descent:     Richard,  James,    Nathan,  James, 
James,  Henry,  Henry. 

Henry  Brackett  was  born  March  22,  1793;  was  a  farmer  in  West 
Braintree,  Vt.;  married  Clara  Ford,  of  Braintree.     Issue: 

1.  James  H.,  b.  6  Oct.,  1815.     See  family  53- 

2.  Frederick  B.,  b.  13  May,  1818.     See  family  54. 

.3.     William  Henry,  b.   1  Jan.,  1826;  mar.   2  Sept.,  1852,  Jane  H. 
Skimmings.     Issue: 

1st.     Robert  Henry,  b.  28  Dec,  1854. 

4.  Philo  Ford,  b.   20  July,  1823;  mar.  31  Aug.,  1854,  Amanda  A. 
Gowing,  who  d.  16  Sept.,  1855.     Issue: 

1st.     Levi  Philo,  b.  6  Sept.,  1855. 

5.  William  Henry,  b.  11  June,  ;  d.  23  Jan.,  1826. 

('».      Meander  N.,  b.  24  Feb.,  1828;  d.  young. 

7.  Eliphal  Minora,  b.   13  May,  1830;  mar.   15  Feb.,  1852,  Charles 
B.  Child.     Issue: 

1st.     Clara  Ella,  b.  19  July,  1855. 
2nd.     Mary  Susan,  b.  6  Dec,  1857. 

8.  Clara  Lovina,  b.  18  Jan.,  1833;  d.  2  Mar.,  1835. 

9.  Eleazer  P.,  b.  22  July,  1834;   d.  12  Apr.,  1841. 

10.  Harriet  Eovina,  b.  23  June,  1837. 

FAMILY    NO.    31. 

From   Family  No.   12.     Descent:     Richard,  James,    Nathan,  James, 
James,  James,  Thomas  O. 

Thomas  Odiorne  Brackett  was  born  July  16,  1799,  in  Braintree, 
Mass.;  for  many  years  was  connected  with  the  Traders  bank  in  Bos- 
ton; was  member  of  the  Ancient  and  Honorable  Artillery  company; 
joined  in  1832,  third  sergeant  in  1837.  lieutenant  in  1837;  in  attend- 
ance at  meeting  in  celebration  of  its  two-hundredth  anniversary;  is 
mentioned  in  its  history,  as  an  "invincible  friend"  of  the  company. 
Lieutenant  Brackett  died  June  12,  1863,  is  buried  in  Maiden,  Mass. 
Married  January  6,  1824,  Caroline  Sylvester,  born  in  1806,  died  in 
September,  1844,  in  Somerville,  buried  in  Maiden,  daughter  of  Cap- 
tain William,  of  Boston,  who  died  in  Bombay,  India.     Issue: 

1.  Caroline  A.,  b.  4  Sept.,  1824;  d.   18  Sept.,  1861;  buried  at  Ivy 
Mills,  Delaware  co.,  Pa. 

2.  Elizabeth,  d.  young. 


562  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

3.  Mary,   d.  young. 

4.  Hannah,  d.  young. 

5.  Ellen,  b.  23  July,  1830,  in  Charlestown,  Mass.;  d.  14  Oct.,  1895; 
mar.  22  Sept.,  1855,  Edward  M.  Wheelock,  b.  30  Aug.,  1829,  d.  29 
Oct.,  1901,  (son  of  Charles  and  wife,  Lydia  Brown,  of  Ithaca,  N.  Y.), 
a  Unitarian  minister,  a  graduate  of  both  the  law  and  divinity  schools 
of  Harvard,  about  1854;  served  in  15th  N.  H.  vol.  inf.;  member  of 
military  board  to  establish  Freedmen  schools  in  Louisiana;  state 
superintendent  of  public  instruction  in  Texas;  superintendent  of  State 
Blind  institute.    "Issue: 

1st.  Charles  Brackett,  b.  8  July,  1856,  in  Bedford,  Mass.;  resided 
in  Dover,  N.  H.,  to  1861,  in  New  Orleans  to  1866,  in  Galveston,  Tex., 
to  1868,  in  Austin  to  1877,  in  Santa  Fe  to  1881  and  in  Boston  since; 
business  is  insurance.  Mar.  25  Oct.,  1882,  Etta  T.  Stetson,  b.  27 
Oct.,  1852,  dau.  of  Amos  W.  and  wife,  Martha  H.  Thorndike,  of 
Boston,  Mass.     Issue: 

I.  Harold  Stetson,  b.   26  Jan.,  1885;  resides  107  Water  St., 
Boston. 

II.  Charles  Brackett,  Jr.,  b.  30  Dec,  1891;  d.  24  Apr.,  1892. 
2nd.     Emelie,  b.  18  Jan.,  1861,  in  Dover,  N.  H.;  has  resided  in 

Austin  since  she  was  a  child;  mar.  21  June,  1887,  John  D.  Howson, 
teller  in  Austin  national  bank,  b.  4  Apr.,  1854,  son  of  John  D.  How- 
son,  a  captain  in  the  English  merchant  marine,  and  wife,  Margaret 
Isabella  Spedding,  of  Liverpool,  Eng.     Issue: 

I.     Edwin  Dorlin,  b.  30  Aug.,  1889;  d.  5  Dec,  1889. 
3d.     Elsie  Plumley,  b.  1  Nov.,  1866;  d.  18  Apr.,  1867. 

6.  Edward,  b.  17  Apr.,  1838;  served  during  civil  war  as  private  in 
5th  Mass.  vol.  inf.;  also  enlisted  as  private  in  co.  D,  10th  Me.  vol. 
inf.,  4  Oct.,  1 86 1,  promoted  to  2nd  lieut.,  and  killed  at  Antietam, 
Md.,  17  Sept.,  1862. 

7.  Emma,  b.  8  Feb.,  1841;  d.  28  Dec,  1900,  buried  at  Mt.  Auburn, 
Mass.;  mar.  21  Oct.,  1873,  Henry  A.  Thorndike,  of  Boston.  No 
issue. 

8.  Frank  E.,  b.  17  Aug.,  1843.     See  family  55. 


FAMILY    NO.    32. 

From  Family  No.    13.     Descent:     Richard,  James,    Nathan,  James, 
James,  Charles,  Andrew  J. 

Andrew  Jackson  Brackett  was  born  February  14,  18 15,  in  Ran- 
dolph, Vt.;  evidently  his  father  was  not  one  of  those  who  were  sorry 
because  Old  Hickory  beat  the  British  at  New  Orleans;  resided  in 
Rochester,  N.  Y.,  where  he  was  engaged  in  the  glass  and  crockery 
business;  married  September  28,  1840,  Sarah  Whitney,  who  died  July 
30,  1870.     Mr.  Brackett  died  January  22,  1862,  in  Rochester.     Issue 

1.  Frances  Augusta,  b.  28  July,  1841;'  d.  23  Mar.,  1858. 

2.  Henry  Whitehouse,  b.  1  Feb.,  184-;  d.  14  Sept.,  1863. 

3.  Andrew  Jackson,  b.  30  June,  1851. 

4.  Sarah  Louise,  b.  28  Mar.,  1856;  d.  10  Sept.,  1857.' 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  563 

FAMILY    NO.    33. 

From  Family  No.   13.     Descent:     Richard,  James,    Nathan,  James, 
James,  Charles,  James. 

James  Brackett  was  born  January  24,  1818,  in  Randolph,  Vt.; 
resided  in  Rochester,  N.  Y.,  where  he  was  a  wine  merchant,  subse- 
quently a  banker;  married  December  1,  1840,  Mary  H.  Adams,  of 
Brockport,  N.  Y.,  who  died  January  11,  1882.     Issue: 

1.  Ellen  Louise,  b.  28  Oct.,  1841;  d.  29  Jan.,  1869. 

2.  Charles  Adams,  b.  31  Aug.,  1843;  d.  1  May,  1865. 

3.  Mary  S.,  b.  20  Apr.,  1846;  d.  2  Apr..  1888. 

4.  Clara  Adelaide,  b.  24  Jan.,  tS,«.  ft    ^  H-try,,,  J887 

FAMILY    NO.    34. 

From  Family  No.    13.     Descent:     Richard,   James,    Nathan,  James, 
James,  Charles,  William  F. 

William  Frederick  Brackett  was  born  June  5,  1820,  in  Randolph, 
Vt.;  resided  for  several  years  in  Minneapolis;  married  July  14,  1853, 
Mary  R.  Rice,  who  died  January  16,  1879,  in  Dubuque,  la.,  daughter 
of  Horace  K.     Issue: 

1.  Carrie  R.,  b.  22  Sept.,  1854,  in  Troy,  N.  Y.;  home,  in  Minne- 
apolis;  mar.  16  Jan.,  1889,  Arthur  M.  Diggles.     Issue: 

1st.     Ruth  A.,  b.  7  Sept.,  1891. 

2.  William  G.,  b.  22  Jan.,  1862,  in  Dubuque,  la.;  home,  in  Minne- 
apolis;  mar.  4  Apr.,  1888,  Ada  P.  Hoar,  of  Burlington,  la. 

FAMILY   NO.    35. 

From  Family  No.    14.     Descent:     Richard,   James,   Nathan,  James, 
James,  Lemuel,  Samuel  E. 

Samuel  Eaton  Brackett  was  born  October  7,  1806,  in  Braintree, 
Mass.;  resided  in  Somerville,  Mass.;  a  dry  goods  merchant  in  Boston; 
married  June  rr,  1834,  Caroline  S.  Callender,  of  Boston,  born  Septem- 
ber 4,  1808,  died  June  30,  1880,  daughter  of  Richard  B.  Mr.  Brackett 
died  November  3,  1890.     Issue: 

1.  Anna  Callender,  b.  21  May,  1836,  in  Quincy;  graduate  of  State 
normal  school  in  Framingham,  in  1856;  teacher  in  graded  schools  in 
E.  Brookfield,  and  normal  school  in  Framingham;  principal  in  girls' 
high  school  in  Charleston,  S.  C;  assistant  in  high  school  in  Cam- 
bridge, and  principal  of  normal  school  in  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  for  9  years 
(first  woman  principal  of  any  normal  school);  principal  of  girls'  pri- 
vate school  in  New  York  city  for  20  years.  Author  of  Education  of 
American  Girls;  Poetry  for  Home  and  School  (1876);  Philosophy  of 
Education  (translated  from  the  German  in  1886);  Technique  of  Rest; 
Women  and  Higher  Education;  home,  in  New  York  city. 

2.  George  C,  b.  6  Sept.,  1838;   home,  in  Brooklyn. 

3.  Mary  Ashton,  b.  2  June,  1840;  home,  in  Brookline,  Mass. 

4.  Ellen,  b.  16  May,  1843;  home,  in  Brookline,  Mass. 

o.  Sarah  Caroline,  b.  16  Feb.,  1847;  mar.  Austin  M.  Garvin,  of 
Worcester,  Mass. 


5G4  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

FAMILY    NO.    36. 

From   Family  No.    14.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  James, 
James,  Lemuel,  Jeffrey  R. 

Jeffrey  Richardson  Brackett  was  born  October  29,  1815,  in 
Quincy  (Braintree);  a  resident  of  Quincy  and  a  commission  merchant 
in  Boston;  died  October  29,  1876.  Married  February  24,  1851,  Sarah 
Cordelia  Richardson,  born  in  Boston  in  1832,  died  April  10,  1877, 
daughter  of  Benjamin  P.  and  wife,  Rebecca  Bridge,  daughter  of  John 
Bridge  and  wife,  Sarah,  of 'Littleton,  Mass.     Issue: 

1.      Lemuel,  b.  27  June,  1853;   d.  3  Feb.,  1854. 

1'.  Jeffrey  Richardson,  b.  20  Oct.,  i860;  resident  of  Quincy  to  1884, 
of  Baltimore,  Md.,  to  1904,  and  of  Boston  since;  graduate  of  Harvard 
university  in  1883;  Ph.  D.  in  history  at  Johns  Hopkins  university, 
1889;  chairman  of  the  executive  committee  of  Charity  Organization 
society  of  Baltimore,  1 897-1 904;  president  of  supervisors  of  city  chari- 
ties of  Baltimore;  president  of  national  conference  of  charities  and  cor- 
rections, 1904;  director  of  Boston  school  for  Social  Workers  (main- 
tained by  Simmons  college  and  Harvard  university),  1904  to  date; 
author  of  "Supervision  and  Education  in  Charity."  Mar.  16  June, 
1886,  Susan  Katharine  Jones,  b.  23  Mar.,  1861,  dau.  of  Wm.  Strother 
Jones  and  wife,  Mary  Eliza  Barton,  of  Vaucluse,  Frederick  co.,  Va. 
No  issue. 

FAMILY    NO.    36  A. 

From  Family  No.    15.     Descent:     Richard,  James,    Nathan,   James, 
Samuel,  James,  James  C. 

James  C.  Brackett  was  born  June  27,  1815;  died  September  21, 
1889;  was  overseer  in  mills  in  Nashua,  N.  H.;  removed  to  Antrim. 
Married  Margaret  D.  Balch,  born  May  13,  1815,  died  January  22,  1892, 
daughter  of  Allen  and  wife,  Hepsibah  Dodge,  natives  of  New  Boston, 
N.  H..  residents  of  Northfield,  Vt.     Issue: 

1.  Clarence  A.,  b.  2  Mar.,  1840;  a  resident  of  Chelsea,  Mass.; 
served  during  civil  war  in  co.  E,  2nd  N.  H.  vol.  inf.,  enlisted  21  May, 
1 861;  second  term  of  sendee  was  in  17  Vt.  vol.  inf.;  was  wounded  and 
captured  at  Weldon  railroad  and  confined  in  prison  at  Salisbury,  N. 
C.  Mar.  28  Aug.,  1873,  Juliette  Oliver,  who  d.  22  July,  1905.  No 
issue. 

2.  Charles  P.,  b.  9  June,  1842;  never  mar.;  d.  1  June,  1906,  from 
injuries  received  in  an  accident  in  Antrim. 

3.  Estelle  O.,  b.  26  June,  1851;  mar.  9  June,  1874,  Fred  L.  Nay, 
a  photo-engraver  in  Cambridge,  Mass.,  b.  5  Sept.,  1845,  son  of 
Samuel  and  wife,  Nancy  B.  Vose,  of  Antrim;  name  formerly  written 
McNee.  Deacon  Wm.  McNee  was  one  of  the  first  settlers  of  Peter- 
boro,  N.  H. 

FAMILY    NO.    37. 

From  Family  No.    17.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  James, 
Samuel,  Isaac,  Benjamin  F. 

Benjamin  Franklin  Brackett  was  born  September  23,  1808;  :.n 
Quincy,  Mass.;  was  a  restaurateur;  resided  in  Quincy,  Charlestov/n, 
Boston  and  Sandwich,  Mass.,  in  the  order  named;  in  the  latter  p'.ace 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  565 

he  died  July  i,   1884.     Married  October  27,  1833,  Rhoda  Nickerson, 
born  August  22,  1806,  died  January  30,  1888.     Issue: 

1.  William  Henry,  b.  1  Apr.,  1834,  in  Charlestown,  Mass.;  is  a 
restaurateur;  resides  in  Maiden,  Mass.;  mar.  M.  Elizabeth  Nickerson, 
who  d.  14  Apr.,  1882,  dau.  of  Joseph,  of  Litchfield  Plains,  Me. 
Issue: 

1st.  Isabel  Louise,  b.  6  Aug.,  1867;  mar.  Hobart  L.  Wright; 
home,  in  Everett,  Mass. 

2nd.  Etta  May,  b.  3  Apr.,  1872;  mar.  John  A.  Hohvay;  home, 
in  Sandwich,  Mass. 

2.  John  Edward,  b.  10  Sept.,  1835,  in  Charlestown,  Mass.;  served 
in  civil  war  from  Sept.,  1862,  to  May,  1863,  in  45th  Mass.  vol.  inf.; 
is  employed  in  U.  S.  navy  yard,  construction  department,  in  Charles- 
town, Mass.;  resides  in  Everett,  Mass.  Mar.  21  Sept.,  1869,  Maria 
Smith,  b.  17  Dec,  1843,  dau.  of  Hiram  and  wife,  Lucy  Butler,  of 
Maiden,  Mass. 

3.  Adelaide  Elizabeth,  b.  12  Aug.,  1837;  mar.  Samuel  Hayward. 

4.  Martha  Ann,  b.  7  Aug.,  1846;  mar.  Levi  S.  Nye;  home,  in 
Sandwich,  Mass. 

FAMILY    NO.    38. 

From  Family  No.    18.     Descent:     Richard,  James,    Nathan,  James, 
Samuel,  William,  John. 

John  Brackett  was  born  October  1,  1822,  in  Hillsboro,  N.  H.;  is 
a  farmer  in  Colebrook,  N.  H.;  married  January  17,  1849,  Hannah  M. 
Gould,  who  died  February  26,  1859,  daughter  of  John  F.  and  wife, 
Mehitable  Wallace;  (2nd)  October  13,  1859,  Mary  Keazer,  born 
November  15,  1840,  daughter  of  James  and  wife,  Sally  Young,  of 
Stewartstowu,  N.  H.     Issue: 

1.  Sarah  E.,  b.  9  May,  1851;  mar.  29  Dec,  1870,  Henry  M. 
Leavitt;  home,  in  Colebrook;  children,  Annie  H.,  b.  3  Nov.,  1871; 
Eda,  b.  21  Jan.,  1877,  mar.  20  Jan.,  1897,  Frank  Baldwin;  Walter  H., 
b.  6  Sept.,  1873;  Claude,  b.  13  May,  1881. 

2.  Ellen  Addie,  b.  8  Oct.,  1854;  d.  2  Oct.,  1857. 

3.  Jennie  M.,  b.  12  Oct.,  1861;  teacher  in  Colebrook. 

4.  Irving  U.,  b.  19  Sept.,  1863;  mar.  7  June,  1893,  Elva  E.  Gould. 
Issue: 

1st.     Eunice  M.,  b.  15  Dec,  1896;   d.  20  Mar.,  1898. 

5.  Effie  A.,  b.  3  Mar.,  1868;  is  a  teacher. 

6.  John  H.,  b.  12  Oct.,  1873;  is  a  clerk. 

7.  Arthur  H.,  b.  11  Oct.,  1878. 

8.  Lester  M.,  b.  15  Dec,  1884. 

FAMILY    NO.    39. 

From   Family  No.    18.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,   James, 
Samuel,  William,  Joseph. 

Joseph  Brackett  was  born  October  12,  1827,  in  Hillsboro,  N.  H.; 
is  a  carpenter;  resides  in  Lovell,  Me.;  married  March  8,  1853,  in 
Colebrook,  N.  H.,  Mehitable  Kilgore.  born  January  10,  1825,  died 
August  2,  1899,  daughter  of  James  and  wife,  Mehitable  Stearns,  of 
Bartlett,  N.  H.     Issue: 


566  BRACKETT     GENEALOGV 

1.  Ward  C,  b.  n  Dec,  1853;  mar.  Georgia  A.  Smith;  d.  in 
Lovell.  30  Oct.,  1878. 

2.  Lucy  A.,  b.  30  June,  1855;  mar.  Frank  P.  Fox;  d.  in  Lovell, 
30  Apr.,  1883. 

3.  Mary  C,  b.  10  Oct.,  1861;  d.  in  Colebrook,  12  Aug.,  1862. 

4.  Carrie  A.,  b.  11  Nov.,  1864;   mar.  Irving  R.  Seavey. 

0.  Ellen  M.,  b.  6  Aug.,  1867;  d.  at  Kezar  Falls.  Me..  3  Apr.,  1885. 

FAMILY    NO.    40. 

From  Family  No.  21.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Ezra. 
Ezra  Brackett  was  born  October  18,  1805,  in  Elbridge,  N.  Y.; 
in  early  life  was  a  contractor,  engaged  in  building  canals  and  railroads 
in  the  United  States  and  Canada.  In  1844,  removed  to  Corns,  Mich., 
where  he  followed  farming;  died  April  26,  1889;  married  April  9, 
1832,  Mary  Davisson,  of  Trenton,  X.  J.,  who  died  February  21,  1882. 
Issue: 

1.  Caroline  E.,  b.  16  Feb.,  1833,  in  Haddam.  Conn.;  d.  19  Nov., 
1852. 

2.  Christopher  Grove,  b.  12  Sept.,  1837,  in  Camillus.  N.  Y.;  d.  in 
Sept.,  1903;  resided  in  Con-is,  Mich.;  was  a  farmer;  mar.  3  Feb., 
1862,  Maria  King,  of  Olivet,  Mich.     Issue: 

1st.     Caroline  Amelia,  b.  25  June,  1864;  is  dec;  mar.  Robert  H. 
Ward;   lived  in  Marshall,  Mich. 

2nd.     Georgia  A.,  b.  12  May,  18 — ;  d.  25  Aug.,  1881. 

3.  Theodore  D.,  b.  1  May,  1842.     See  family  56. 

4.  Charles  H.,  b.  17  July,  1844.     See  family  57. 

5.  Albert  E..  b.  6  Apr. ,"1846.     See  family  58. 

6.  Ezra,  b.  17  Jan.,  1S4S.     See  family  59. 

FAMILY    NO.    41. 

From  Family  No.  21.  Descent:  Richard.  James,  Nathan,  John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Martin  S. 
Martin  Stoddard  Brackett  was  born  in  Elbridge,  Onondaga 
county,  X.  Y.,  on  December  19,  1S10;  acquired  his  education  in  the 
public  schools,  the  local  academy  and  under  the  tuition  of  the  local 
Presbyterian  minister.  In  1828  he,  with  his  brother,  had  the  charge 
of  a  large  number  of  men  and  teams  going  overland  to  Washington, 
D.  C.  to  work  on  the  Chesapeake  and  Ohio  canal;  at  the  end  of  two 
years  he  returned  to  Elbridge  and  resumed  his  studies  with  his  pastor. 
Commenced,  in  1831,  civil  engineering  in  New  Jersey,  was  engaged  in 
the  construction  of  a  canal  built  through  that  state.  Subsequently  he 
entered  a  law  office  in  Camillus,  N.  Y.,  where  he  studied  law  for  over 
two  years.  In  1836,  again  engaged  in  railroad  and  canal  construction 
in  New  York.  Removed  to  Bellevue,  Mich.,  in  the  spring  of  1838, 
and  in  the  fall  of  that  year  entered  the  law  office  of  Gibbs  and  Bradley, 
of  Marshall;  admitted  to  practice  in  1839.  During  the  same  year  was 
elected  to  the  office  of  county  clerk  and  was  twice  re-elected  to  that 
office;  at  the  next  election  was  chosen  to  serve  as  district  attorney; 
nominated  in  1842,  for  the  state  senate  by  the  Whig  party  but  was 
defeated;  identified  himself  in  1848,  with  the  Democratic  party;  was 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  567 

nominated  for  the  state  senate  in  1856,  and  for  lieutenant  governor  in 
1864,  by  that  party.  One  of  the  organizers  of  the  Peninsular  railway; 
its  organization  took  place  in  his  law  office;  was  the  company's  secre- 
tary and  attorney  until  1873.  Closely  identified  with  the  Independent 
Order  of  Good  Templars  in  its  early  history,  and  for  three  years  held 
the  office  of  grand  worthy  chief  templar.  Also  a  Mason  in  high  stand- 
ing and  as  such  was  well  known  throughout  the  state;  between  three 
and  four  hundred  Masons  followed  his  remains  to  the  grave.  Promi- 
nent member  of  the  State  Pioneer  society  and  made  one  of  the  finest 
collections  of  Indian  and  mineral  relics  in  the  state. 

Contributed  liberally  toward  the  bettering  of  the  condition  of  his 
fellow  man  and  ever  worked  for  the  good  of  his  locality;  was  a  man 
of  excellent  habits  and  set  a  worthy  example  for  others.  He  resided 
continuously  in  Bellevue,  from  1838  until  his  death,  which  occurred 
February  7,  1877.  He  possessed  also  great  physical  as  well  as  intel- 
lectual strength,  but  while  he  was  in  the  full  enjoyment  of  apparently 
complete  health  he  was  stricken  with  a  fatal  attack  of  pneumonia.  It 
is  estimated  that  twelve  hundred  persons  attended  his  funeral.  Mar- 
ried December  18,  1834,  L,ovisa  Earll,  born  August  23,  1816,  in  Mar- 
eellus,  N.  Y.,  died  September  30,  1887,  in  Charlotte,  Mich.,  daugh- 
ter of  David  Earll  and  wife,  Hannah  Bowen,  of  Otisco,  N.  Y.;  after 
her  husband's  death  she  resided  with  her  daughter,  Mrs.  Huggett  in 
Charlotte.  For  fifteen  years  she  was  a  patient  sufferer  from  disease; 
her  life  was  one  of  activity  and  usefulness,  one  of  devotion  to  family 
and  friends.     Issue: 

1.  Reuben  E.,  b.  19  Feb.,  1835.     See  family  60. 

2.  Martin  S.,  b.  1  May,  1837.     See  family  61. 

3.  Irving  Dwight,  b.  4  May,  1839;  mar.  14  May,  1861,  Mary 
Aristeen  Goss;  is  a  farmer  in  Corvis,  Mich.;  children,  Clara  E.; 
Rubie  E.;   May;  all  of  whom  are  dec. 

4.  Vera  Lovisa,  b.  26  Dec,  1841,  in  Bellevue,  Mich.;  mar.  5 
Nov.,  1861,  Charles  P.  Brown,  an  attorney  at  law,  b.  19  June,  1833, 
d.  22  Sept.,  1904,  son  of  William  B.  and  wife,  -Beulah  W.  Purinton, 
of  Eynn,  Mass.;  after  marriage  resided  in  Bellevue,  Mich.,  to  1865; 
in  Cedar  Falls,  la.,  to  1869;  in  Decorah,  la.,  to  1886;  then  in  St. 
Paul;  now  resides  with  her  son  in  Galveston,  Tex.     Issue: 

1st.     Martin  W.,  b.  17  Sept.,  1862;  resides  in  Galveston,  Tex. 
2nd.     Jennie  E-,  b.  1  Mar.,  1864;  mar.  14  Jan.,  1892,  W.  Barton 
Chapin;  d.  9  July,  1895. 

3d.     Addie,  b.  and  d.  25  Aug.,  1869. 

5.  Edgar  Darwin,  b.  24  Nov.,  1844;  d.  24  Jan.,  1886;  mar.  4  Dec, 
1877,  Lydia  E.  Clark,  b.  in  Mar.,  1858;  resided  in  Charlotte  and 
engaged  in  mercantile  business;  his  widow  mar.  in  May,  1906,  John 
W.  Saunders,  of  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.     Issue: 

]st.     Rae,  b.  19  June,  1879. 

2nd.     Irving,  b.  19  Feb.,  1881;  d.  4  July,  1906. 

6.  Mary  Elizabeth,  b.  27  June,  1848,  in  Bellevue,  Mich.;  mar.  22 
Nov.,  1871,  George  Huggett,  b.  27  June,  1842,  son  of  Thomas  and 
wife,  Mary  Ann  Wickham,  of  Corvis,  b.  in  England.  Mr.  George 
Huggett  is  an  attorney-at-law  in  Charlotte,  Mich.,  since  1879;  stud- 
ied law  in  the  office  of  his  father-in-law  with  whom,  on  his  admission 
to  practice  in   1870,  he  formed  a  partnership  which  continued  until 


5G8  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Mr.  Brackett' s  death;  member  of  the  state  legislature  in  1875;  elected 
prosecuting  attorney  in  1876,  and  re-elected  in  1878.     Issue: 

1st.  Vera,  b.  27  Jan.,  1875;  mar.  6  Feb.,  1901.  George  Beards- 
ley  Stine;  resides  in  Little  Rock,  Ark.     Issue: 

I.  Kathleen,  b.  6  Jan.,  1902,  in  Higginson.  Ark. 

II.  Marvin,  b.  19  Oct.,  1903,  in  Searcy,  Ark. 

III.  Dau.,  b.  12  May,  1905;   d.  17  May,  1905. 

2nd.  Martin  Charles,  b.  13  June,  1876;  mar.  22  Oct.,  1901,  Irene 
Sweet;  resides  in  Grand  Rapids,  Mich.     Issue: 

I.     Nanette  Elizabeth,  b.  30  Mar.,  1905,  in  Grand  Rapids. 

7.  Charles  Marion,  b.  twin  with  Mary  E.;  d.  6  Sept.,  1855. 

8.  Frank  Crosby,  b.  16  Sept.,  1852.     See  family  62. 

9.  George  Earl,  b.  9  May,  1854,  in  Bellevue;  is  a  dealer  in  gen- 
eral merchandise;  removed  to  Charlotte,  in  1881,  to  Petoskey  in  1901, 
and  back  to  Charlotte  in  1906.  Mar.  25  Apr.,  1877,  Minnie  L.  Hall, 
b.  7  Mar.,  1858,  dau.  of  Leonard  C.  and  wife,  Lana  Bachtel,  of  Belle- 
vue, Mich.     No  issue. 

10.  David  E.,  b.  17  May,  1857.     See  family  63. 

11.  Caroline  Cynthia,  b.  10  May,  1859;  mar.  17  June,  1885,  David 
W.  Bolles,  M.  D.,  of  Brownton,  Minn.,  a  graduate  of  Rush  Medical 
college,  class  of  1884,  b.  11  Jan.,  i860,  son  of  George  W.  and  wife, 
Mary  Sauntry,  of  Afton,  Minn.;  resided  in  Bellevue,  Mich.,  to  1881, 
in  Decorah,  la.,  to  1884,  in  Charlotte,  Mich.,  to  1885,  and  from 
thence  removed  to  Brownton.     No  issue. 

FAMILY    NO.    42. 

From  Family  No.  23.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
Benjamin,  Jonathan,  William  H. 

William  H.  Brackett  was  born  June  26,  1840,  in  West  Hawley, 
Mass.,  where  he  resides;  is  a  farmer;  married  November  4,  1865, 
Malinda  Larkins,  born  February  23,  1842,  died  May  4,  1900,  daughter 
of  Libbeaus  and  wife,  Mabel  Moore,  of  Ballston,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1.  Ida,  b.  11  Sept.,  1867;  mar.  5  Jan.,  1892,  Fred  D.  Legate; 
children,  Harry  F.,  b.  13  May,  1893;   Bessie  M.,  b.  12  Apr.,  1897. 

2.  Freeman,  b.  29  Jan.,  1869;  mar.  28  Nov.,  1894,  Celestia  A. 
Barber;  child,  Murry  A.,  b.  8  Sept..  1897. 

3..    John  A.,  b.  28  Dec,  1871. 
4.     William  A.,  b.  29  Mar.,  1873. 

FAMILY    NO.    43. 

From  Family  No.  25.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  John  A.,  James  S. 

James  Sylvester  Brackett  was  born  January  29.  1823,  in  Pitts- 
town,  N.Y.;  is  a  miller;  resides  in  Mt. Vernon,  la.;  married  September 
14,  1844,  Nancy  Sherman,  born  January  15,  1823,  died  April  5,  1865, 
daughter  of  Sylvanus  Sherman  and  wife,  Clarissa  Slater,  of  Wilton, 
N.  Y.      Issue: 

1.  Charles,  b.  17  Oct.,  1855;  mar.  Elizabeth  Springstead;  resides 
in  Mount  Vernon,  la.     Issue: 

1st.      Frank  J. 

2nd.     Florence. 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  569 

FAMILY    NO.    44. 

From  Family  No.  25.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  John  A.,  William  W. 

William  Watson  Brackett  was  born  January  14,  1825,  in  Pitts- 
town,  N.  Y.;  married  in  Wilton,  Saratoga  county,  N.  Y.,  March  4, 
1846,  Elizabeth  Sherman;  resided  in  Wilton  from  the  time  his  father 
moved  there;  was  a  builder  of  railroad  bridges  and  his  occupation 
called  him  away  from  his  home  a  great  deal;  in  1855,  he  went  to  Linn 
county,  la.,  as  he  supposed,  temporarily,  but  as  it  proved,  resided 
there  until  his  death  June  15,  1891;  is  buried  in  cemetery  at  Mount 
Yernon.     Issue: 

1.  Anna  Eliza,  b.  24  Oct.,  1847,  in  Wilton,  N.  Y.;  mar.  31  Dec, 
1868,  Myron  K.  Neff,  b.  12  Dec,  1845,  son  of  Zebulon  J.  and  wife, 
Roxauna  S.  Kibbee.  Mr.  Neff  is  an  undertaker  in  Mt.  Yernon,  la. 
Issue: 

1st.     Fred   B.,   b.   27  Jan.,    1870;  mar.   8  Oct.,    1893,   Nettie  C. 
Turner;  home,  in  Cedar  Rapids,  la.     Issue: 
I.     Howard  E. 

2nd.  Charles  D.,  b.  2  Aug.,  1873;  mar.  8  Jan.,  1898,  Helen 
Shuntz;  home,  in  Mt.  Vernon.     Issue: 

I.  Alta  S. 

II.  Dorothy. 

3d.     Howard  E.,  b.  16  Aug.,  1879;   d.  30  July,  1882. 
4th.     Elizabeth,  b.  22  Sept.,  1885. 

2.  Edgar  T.,  b.  30  July,  1853.     See  family  64. 

3.  Clara  Ada,  b.  9  Sept.,  1859,  at  Ely,  la.;  mar.  William  Smith, 
who  is  dec. 

FAMILY    NO.    45. 

From  Family  No.  25.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  John  A.,  .Henry  R. 

Henry  Russell  Brackett  was  born  September  18,  1827,  in  Pitts- 
town,  N.  Y.;  a  mechanic;  resided  in  Fortsville;  died  September  9, 
1904;  married  July  20,  1850,  Mary  L>  Ott,  born  January  16,  1829, 
died  April  4,  1903,  daughter  of  Smith  Ott  and  wife,  Ducinda  Betts,  of 
Moreau,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1.  Jefferson  S.,  b.  14  July,  1852.     See  family  65. 

2.  Alice  M.,  b.  2  Apr.,  1854;  d.  23  Dec,  1859. 

3.  John  Henry,  b.  29  Nov.,  1855;  resides  in  Moreau,  N.  Y. 

4.  Emma  E.,  b.  3  Oct.,  1857;  d.  14  Feb.,  i860. 

5.  Albert  C,  b.  18  Jan.,  1863;  d.  18  Apr.,  1873. 

6.  Guy  Cecil,  b.  5  July,  1869. 

FAMILY   NO.  46. 

From  Family  No.  25.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  John  A.,  George  R. 
George  Russell  Brackett  was  born  September  26,  1835,  in  Pitts- 
town,  N.  Y.;  a  commercial  traveler  in  South  Glens  Falls,  where  he 
died  February  2,  1901;  formerly  resided  in  Wilton,  Bald  Mountain 
and  Saratoga' Springs  in  the  order  named;  married  September  2,  1856, 


570  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

Mary  J.    Perry,   born   May   9,    1839,   daughter  of   Rowland  and  wife,. 
Waitv  Calkins,  of  Wilton.     Issue: 

1.  "  Stella  A.,  b.  27  Sept.,  1859;  d.  16  Oct.,  1877. 

2.  Perry  Sturges,  b.  1  Mar.,  1866,  in  Bald  Mountain;  a  contractor 
in  South  Glens  Falls;  was  chief  of  police  in  1901;  d.  20  Sept.,  1905; 
mar.  22  Oct.,  1896,  Anna  Delaney,  b.  in  Aug.,  1870,  d.  25  Dec,  1901,. 
dau.  of  John  and  wife,  Nancy  Condor,  of  South  Glens  Falls.  No 
issue. 

.'>.     Nellie  W.,  b.  16  Nov..  1867;  resides  at  South  Glens  Falls. 

FAMILY    NO.    47. 

From  Family  No.  26.     Descent:     Richard,  James,  Nathan,  Nathan,, 
James,  James  A.,  Devi. 

Devi  Brackett  was  born  July  28,  1830,  in  Cincinnatus,  N.  Y.; 
is  a  farmer  in  Hannibal  Center;  has  held  the  office  of  justice-of-the- 
peace  for  thirty-four  years;  also  that  of  railroad  commissioner;  mar- 
ried February  15,  i860,  Elizabeth  Schenck,  born  November  11,  1835,, 
daughter  of  John  and  wife,  Hannah  Perkins,  of  Hannibal.     Issue: 

1.  James,  b.  28  Feb.,  1861;  resides  in  Hannibal  Center. 

2.  John,  b.  10  Jan.,  1865;  resides  in  Hannibal  Center. 

3.  Jay,  b.  27  June,  1869;  mar.  17  June,  1897,  Jennie  Walker; 
resides  in  Mohawk,  Herkimer  co.,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1st.     Ernest  Walker,  b.  8  Dec,  1902. 

FAMILY  NO.    48. 

From  Family  No.  27.     Descent:      Richard,  James,   Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  William  W.,  Isaac  T. 

Isaac  Teller  Brackett  was  born  April  22,  1838;  resided  in  Oswego 
and  Hannibal,  N.  Y.;  was  in  the  civil  war  for  four  years;  breveted 
captain  at  its  close;  in  charge  of  prisoners  at  Key  West;  subsequently 
was  in  government  service  and  a  school  teacher;  died  February  8,  1883; 
married  in  February,  1866,  Delana  Van  Auken,  born  May  10,  1841, 
daughter  of  Thomas  and  wife,  Sail}'  Terpening,  of  Hannibal,  N.  Y. 
Issue: 

1.  Frank  Estelle,  b.  1  May,  1867;  mar.  1  Oct.,  1896,  Dr.  William 
P.  Kanar;   d.  29  Mar.,  1899. 

2.  Georgiana,  b.  3  June,  1872;  mar.  1  Jan.,  1903,  Harry  Nye 
Wieting;  home,  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1st.     Harry  Nye,  Jr. 
.3.     Josephine,  b.  21  May,  1879;  resides  in  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

FAMILY    NO.    49. 

From  Family  No.  27.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,   Nathan, 
James,  William  W.,  William  H. 

William  Harrison  Brackett  was  born  August  26,  1841;  served  as 
first  lieutenant  in  81st  New  York  volunteer  infantry  from  1861-65,  and 
as  captain  in  48th  New  York  state  national  guards;  was  commissioner 
of  highways  from  1871  to  1881,  and  has  been  inspector  of  customs  at 
Oswego,  N.  Y.,  since  1881.  Married  June  6,  1867,  Mary  E.  Sher- 
man,   who   died  June    7,    1900,    daughter  of    Peleg  and   wife,   Lucy 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  571 

Welch,  of  Hannibal;    (2nd)  June  15,  1903,  Anna  C.  Williams.     Issue: 

1.  Eva  M.,  b.  7  Oct.,  1868. 

2.  Lynn  S.,  b.  17  Apr.,  1875;  resides  at  Bridgeport,  N.  Y. 

3.  Lucy  Belle,  b.  18  June,  1885. 

FAMILY   NO.    50. 

From  Family  No.  27.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  William  W.,  Charles  H. 

Charles  H.  Brackett  was  born  October  30,  1855,  in  Hannibal  Cen- 
ter, N.  Y.;  aresidentof  Indianapolis,  Ind.,  since  1896;  is  secretary  and 
manager  of  Columbian  life  insurance  company;  prior  to  1896,  was 
Southwestern  representative  of  the  Empire  Drill  company  of  New 
York;  resided  in  Hannibal,  N.  Y.,  to  January,  1880;  in  Jackson, 
Mich.,  to  1884;  and  in  Louisville,  Ky.,  to  1896.  Married  (1st)  in 
May,  1875,  Adelia  M.  Pellet,  daughter  of  Harvey  and  wife,  Adelia 
Dewey,  of  Bowen's  Corners,  N.  Y.;  (2nd)  February  14,  1895,  Minnie 
Belser,  born  September  6,  1869,  daughter  of  G.  Belser  and  wife, 
Rosina  Burckle,  of  New  Albany,  Ind.     Issue: 

1.  Zoie,  b.  6  June,  1876;  mar.  Stephen  Hubbard;  home,  in  Plain- 
ville,  N.  Y. 

2.  Mildred,  b.  23  Mar.,  1896;  d.  26  Oct.,  1900. 

3.  Virginia,  b.  5  Aug.,  1900. 

FAMILY   NO.    51. 

From  Family  No.  28.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,   Nathan, 
James,  Truman  F.,  James  H. 

James  Henry  Brackett  was  born  October  15,  1835,  near  Hanni- 
bal Center,  N.  Y.;  is  a  farmer  in  Hannibal;  for  several  years  lived  in 
Ira,  N.  Y.;  married  December  24,  i860,  Helen  M.  Pierce,  born 
August  22,  1842,  daughter  of  Abram  Briggs  Pierce  and  wife,  Alice 
Ann  McBurney,  of  Ira,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1.  Byron  Briggs,  b.  13  Aug.,  1865.     See  family  66. 

2.  Manly  Truman,  b.  3  July,  1875;  mar.  16  Dec,  1896,  Grace 
Hamilton  Powers,  daughter  of  Rockwell  A.  and  wife,  Ella  C.  John- 
son; resides  in  Hannibal.     Issue: 

1st.     Ella  Marjorie,  b.  25  Dec,  1899. 
2nd.     Robert  McBurney,  b.  15  Apr.,  1901. 
3d.     Helen  Louise,  b.  21  June,  1905. 

3.  Miles  Irving,  b.  twin  with  Manly  T.;   d.  in  Jan.,  1877. 

4.  John  Henry,  b.  3  May,  1877. 

5.  Cora  Ann,  adopted;  sister  of  Mrs.  Henry  Brackett;  youngest 
child  of  Abram  Briggs  Pierce;  adopted  when  an  infant;  b.  22  June, 
1866;  mar.  30  June,  1898,  Dr.  Joseph  T.  Fischer;  home,  in  Syracuse, 
N.  Y. 

FAMILY    NO.    52. 

From  Family  No.  28.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,   Nathan, 
James,  Truman  F.,  William  J. 
William  Jay  Brackett  was  born  June  22,    1852;  married  Clarissa 
Eliza  Andrews,  daughter  of  George  B.  and  wife,   Clarissa  E.  Mason; 
died  September  25,  1881.     Issue: 


572  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Truman  George,  b.  30  Sept.,  1873;  mar.  3  Mar.,  1891,  Cora  B. 
Van  Hoosen,  who  d.  2  Mar.,  1896,  dau.  of  Daniel  and  wife,  Char- 
lotte Smart;  (2nd)  23  Mar.,  1898,  Carrie  Wright,  dau.  of  William 
and  wife,  Caroline  Hammond;  resides  in  Victory,  N.  Y.     Issue: 

1st.     Freda  Cora,  b.  3  Sept.,  1895. 

2.  Clarissa  Phebe,  b.  30  July,  1875;  mar.  23  June,  1897,  Charles 
Byrne,  son  of  Andrew  and  wife,  Chila  Smith;  resides  in  Hannibal. 
Issue: 

1st.     Doris  L>,  b.  3  July,  1901. 

3.  Emma  J.,  b.  5  July,  1880;  mar.  27  June,  1900,  Otis  Kranze, 
son  of  Charles  and  wife,  Frances  F.  Wise. 


NINTH    GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.    53. 

From  Family  No.   30.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  James, 
James,  Henry,  Henry,  James  H. 

James  Harrison  Brackett  was  born  October  6,  18 15,  in  Braintree, 
Vt.;  resided  in  Bethel  and  Proctorville,  Vt.;  Boston,  Mass.;  Mays- 
ville,  Ky.;  Philadelphia,  and  Boston,  in  the  order  named;  was 
engaged  in  railroad  building  and  in  freight  transportation;  died  June 
14,  1863;  married  December  5,  1839,  Mary  Veazie  Thayer,  born 
March  14,  1820,  died  November  25,  1874,  daughter  of  Zenas  (son  of 
Levi  of  Braintree,  Mass.)  and  wife,  Sally  Burridge.     Issue: 

1.  Levi  Curtis,  b.  13  June,  1841;  served  in  civil  war  as  private  in 
2nd  Batn.  Mass.  inf.  for  three  months,  enlisted  24  Apr.,  1861;  also  in 
28th  Mass.  vol.  inf.  from  1  Jan.,  1862,  as  sergeant  major;  commis- 
sioned as  2nd  lieut.  4  Apr.,  1862;  act.  asst.  adj.  general  of  brigade 
from  1  June  to  9  Sept.,  1862;  senior  aide-de-camp,  staff  of  Gen.  O. 
B.  Wilcox,  from  9  Sept.,  1862,  to  end  of  the  war;  mustered  out  of 
service  4  Aug.,  1865.  Breveted  captain  for  "gallant  and  meritorious 
service"  at  battles  of  the  Wilderness,  Spottsylvania,  and  before 
Petersburg;  breveted  major  "for  conspicuous  gallantry"  in  the  attack 
on  Fort  Steadman  and  Petersburg,  Va.  Participated  in  battles 
named,  and  in  Second  Bull  Run,  Chantilly,  South  Mountain,  Antie- 
tam,  Fredericksburg,  Fort  Steadman,  engagements  in  East  Tennes- 
see in  1863,  and  in  other  battles;  wounded  by  musket  ball  in  left  leg 
in  battle  of  Totopotomoy.  Mar.  10  Sept.,  1872,  Charlotte  Morrell 
Speed,  b.  28  Feb.,  1844,  dau.  of  Col.  John  James  Speed  and  wife, 
Anne  Sophia  Morrell;  is  a  manufacturer  of  varnish;  resides  in  New- 
York  City;  formerly  resided  in  Boston,  New  York  City,  and  Cleve- 
land, O.,  in  the  order  named.     Issue: 

1st.     Mary  Morrell,  b.  27  July,  1873. 

2nd.     Anna  Speed,  b.  20  Feb.,  1875. 

FAMILY    NO.    54. 

From  Family  No.  30.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  James, 
James,  Henry,  Henry,  Frederick  B. 

Frederick  Blodgette  Brackett  was  born  May  13,  181 8,  in  Brain- 
tree, Vt.;   married  September  26,  1847,  Betsey  E.  Philbrick.     Issue: 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  573 

1.  Frederick  A.,  b.  i  July,  1848,  in  West  Braintree,  Vt.;  is  a 
travelling  salesman;  home,  in  River  Falls,  Wis.;  has  been  mayor  of 
the  city;  mar.  28  Sept.,  1871,  Charlotte  Slicer,  b.  21  Mar.,  1851,  dau. 
of  Alfred  A.  and  wife,  .     Issue: 

1st.  Robert  A.,  b.  1  July,  1872;  mar.  12  Oct.,  1898,  Bliss 
L,ymon,  who  d.  26  Feb.,  1900,  in  L,os  Angeles,  Cal. 

2nd.     Geo.  C,  b.  20  Aug.,  1874;  d.  unmar.  in  Richmond,  Va. 
•3d.     Flla  S.,  b.  29  Mar.,  1878. 

2.  Ella  Annette,  b.  4  Oct.,  1853;   d.  17  Aug.,  1S55. 

FAMILY    NO.    55. 

From  Family  No.  31.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  James, 
James,  James,  Thomas  O.,  Frank  E. 
Frank  Ernest  Brackett  was  born  August  17,  1843,  in  Charles- 
town,  Mass.;  was  christened  Frank,  adopted  the  name  "Ernest;" 
is  a  mine  superintendent  in  Cumberland,  Md.,  where  he  has  resided 
for  several  years;  formerly  lived  in  Somerville,  Mass.;  Brooklyn, 
N.  Y.;  Mauch  Chunk,  Pa.;  Summit  Hill  and  Eansford,  Pa.;  Cum- 
berland, Md.;  Frostburg,  and  Eonaconing,  Md.,  in  the  order  named; 
during  the  civil  war  served  in  the  navy,  enlisted  in  the  fall  of  1861, 
and  was  discharged  at  the  close  of  the  war.  Married  May  8,  1873, 
Elizabeth  Capner  Steele,  daughter  of  J.  Dutton  Steele  and  wife, 
Elizabeth  Capner,  of  Pottstown,  Pa.     Issue: 

1.  F.  Ernest,  b.  15  May,  1874;  resides  in  Cumberland. 

2.  George  Sylvester,  b.  15  Sept.,  1875;  mar.  10  Nov.,  1901, 
Maude  Waddle  Parsons,  of  Hanging  Rock,  W.  Ya.  Her  father 
served  in  the  Confederate  army;  home,  in  Grafton,  W.  Va. 

3.  Elizabeth  C,  b.  24  Feb.,  188 1;  resides  in  Cumberland. 

FAMILY    NO.    56. 

From  Family   No.  40.       Descent:     Richard,   James,   Nathan,   John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Ezra,  Theodore  D. 

Theodore  Davison  Brackett  was  born  May  1,  1842,  in  Camillus, 
N.  Y.;  removed,  in  1844,  to  Corvis,  Mich.,  with  his  father.  Mr. 
Brackett  resided  in  several  of  the  states,  in  Indiana,  Missouri, 
Kansas,  Colorado  and  California.  He  died  in  San  Francisco,  Jan- 
uary 25,  1904.  Married  March  20,  1863,  Sarah  Ellis,  born  June  16, 
1S42,  in  Akron,  O.,  daughter  of  Orrin  and  wife,  Emeline  Tate  Cure. 
Issue: 

1.  Minnie  E.,  b.  30  June,  1864,  in  Homer,  Mich.;  mar.  in  Lakin, 
Kan.,  9  Sept.,  1883,  William  E.  Palmer,  b.  20  Mar.,  1856,  son  of 
Plarry  and  Eouisa  J.  Putnam,  of  Essex,  N.  Y.;  removed  to  Carthage, 
N.  M.,  in  1887;  to  San  Antonio  in  1892;  to  Alamogordo,  N.  M., 
with  the  E.  P.  &  N.  E.  R.  R.,  in  1897;  to  Capitan,  N.  M.,  in  1902. 
Mr.  Palmer  is  station  agent  and  operator  at  Capitan,  has  been  in  the 
employ  of  A.  T.  &  S.  F.  R.  R.  for  nineteen  years.     Issue: 

1st.     William  Everet,  b.  1  Aug.,  1892. 

2.  Ezra  A.,  b.  6  Dec,  1868.     See  family  67. 

3.  Ellas  O.,  b.  22  Feb.,  1872.     See  family  68. 


574  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

4.  Clara  Belle,  b.  21  Aug.,  1877,  in  Marysville,  Kan.;  mar. 
23  Apr.,  1895,  John  G.  Lees,  b.  17  Apr.,  1866,  in  Georgetown,  Col.; 
resides  in  Edgewater,  Col.     Issue: 

1st.     Clara  Ethel,  b.  29  Mar.,  1898. 
2nd.     Sarah  Ruth,  b.  30  Nov.,  1899. 

5.  Fred  T.,  b.  23  Apr.,  1880,  in  Marysville,  Kan.;  mar.  15  Sept., 
1903,  EfHe  Fite,  b.  about  1880;  resides  in  Dawson,  N.  M.     No  issue. 

FAMILY    NO.   57. 

From  Family  No.  40.      Descent:      Richard,  James,   Nathan,  John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Ezra,  Charles  H. 

Charles  Henry  Brackett  is  a  farmer  at  Penfield,  in  Corvis  town- 
ship, Calhoun  county,  Mich.,  where  he  has  resided  since  he  was  four 
weeks  old;  was  born  July  17,  1844,  in  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Was 
justice-of-the-peace  for  fifteen  years,  beginning  with  1881,  and  for 
nine  years  has  been  a  member  of  the  school  board.  Married  Decem- 
ber 19,  1866,  Laura  E.  Kellogg,  born  August  29,  1845,  daughter  of 
John  P.  and  wife,  Ann  J.  Stanley,  of  Battle  Creek,  Mich.     Issue: 

1.  William  E.,  b.  21  July,  1870;  mar.  20  July,  1898,  Amy  A. 
Neff;  resides  in  Toledo,  O.     Issue: 

1st.     Charles  William. 

2.  Vera  M.,  b.  7  Dec,  1874;  mar.  15  June,  1898,  John  F.  Bying- 
ton;  resides  in  Battle  Creek,  Mich.     Issue: 

1st.     Donald  Brackett. 

3.  C.  Claire,  b.  3  Mar.,  1879;  mar.  2  Mar.,  1904,  Nellie  V.  Wig- 
gin;  resides  in  Penfield,  Mich.     Issue: 

1st.     Clara  Louise. 

FAMILY    NO.    58. 

From    Family  No.  40.      Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,    John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Ezra,  Albert  E. 

Albert  Emmett  Brackett  was  born  April  6,  1846,  in  Corvis,  Mich.; 
married  December  24,  1874,  Mary  E.  Woodard,  daughter  of  Tyler 
and  wife,  Bessie  Randall,  of  Chardon,  Ohio;  resided  for  several  years  in 
Coldvvater,  Mich.;  is  in  the  insurance  business  in  Findlay,  Ohio. 
Issue: 

1.  Ransom  D.,  b.  about  1876;  d.  25  Dec,  1900,  in  Cambridge, 
Mass.  At  the  time  of  his  fatal  sickness  and  death  he  was  a  student 
at  Harvard  college.  He  had  left  college  and  after  a  few  years  in 
business  had  re-entered  to  complete  a  course.  At  his  grave  a  marble 
memorial  stone  was  erected  by  his  classmates.  He  had  laudable 
ambitions  in  life  and  made  great  efforts  to  attain  them;  his  lovable 
disposition  and  gentlemanly  instincts  made  him  a  favorite  with 
acquaintances.  The  writer  has  been  informed  through  correspond- 
ence and  conversation  as  to  the  estimates  "of  Ransom  D.  Brackett  by 
his  associates.  Their  praise  of  him  produced  a  conception  of  a  sweet- 
tempered,  whole-souled,  benevolent  person,  whose  presence  had  a 
charm  in  itself  to  attract  one  to  him,  whose  light-hearted,  gentle  ways 
and  speeches  called  forth  one's  happiest  thoughts  and  recollections  to 
sustain  his  part  while  in  contact  with  him.  In  short,  to  know  him 
was  to  love  him. 


NATHAN,    OF    BRAINTREE  575 

In  1890,  he  commenced  work  on  a  family  genealogy^  which  he 
carried  on  for  a  few  years  and  then  suspended  with  the  intention  of 
resuming  at  his  leisure.  His  untimely  death  brought  sorrow  to  many 
a  heart. 

2.     Ernest  R.,  b.  3  Apr.,  1878.     See  family  69. 

FAMILY   NO.    59. 

From   Family   No.  40.      Descent:     Richard,   James,   Nathan,   John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Ezra,  Ezra. 

Ezra  Brackett  was  born  January  17,  1848,  in  Corvis,  Calhoun 
county,  Mich.;  is  a  minister  of  the  Seventh  Day  Baptist  church,  a 
resident  of  Allegan,  Mich.;  taught  school  from  1868  to  1871;  engaged 
in  the  ministry  from  1871  to  1876;  farmed  for  twenty  years;  is 
engaged  in  church  work  and  is  elder  of  the  church  in  Monterey  and 
Allegan.  Married  March  26,  1873,  Ella  Mehitable  Day,  born  May 
27>  J853,  daughter  of  George  T.  and  wife,  Mary  Exene  Barber,  of 
Monterey,  Mich.     Issue: 

1.  Lela  Exene,  b.  27  Sept.,  1873;  d.  7  Sept.,  1876. 

2.  Lloyd  Clayton,  b.  30  Aug.,  1889. 

3.  Ezra  Carleton,  b.  8  May,  1892. 

FAMILY   NO.    60. 

From   Family   No.   41.      Descent:     Richard,   James,    Nathan,   John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Martin  S.,  Reuben  E. 

Reuben  Earll  Brackett  was  born  February  19,  1835,  in  Camillus, 
N.  Y.;  removed  with  his  father  to  Bellevue,  Mich.,  in  1858,  where  he 
resided  to  1883;  from  that  year  to  1886,  lived  in  Abiline,  Tex.; 
returned  to  Michigan  and  has,  since  1886,  dwelt  in  Lansing,  Mich.; 
received  his  education  in  Olivet  and  Albion  colleges  in  Michigan,  and 
prepared  himself  for  the  practice  of  law;  for  twenty-six  years  was  a 
traveling  salesman;  for  several  years  has  been  engaged  in  the  manu- 
facture of  hones — "Brackethones."  Married  October  7,  1858,  in 
Bellevue,  Helen  Christine  Flint,  born  August  25,  1840,  in  Frankfort, 
N.  Y.,  daughter  of  Isaac  M.  and  wife,  Lois  L.  Wetmore,  of  Utica, 
N.  Y.,  later  of  Battle  Creek,  Mich.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  Flint,  b.  2  Nov.,  1859;  d.  in  Dec,  i860. 

2.  Cora  Lovisa,  b.  2  Jan.,  1861;  mar.  4  Oct.,  1882,  in  Charlotte, 
Mich.,  Robert  Carlton  Brown,  who  d.  in  1897.     Issue: 

1st.     Wesley  Earll,  b.  4  Aug.,  1883;  drowned  in  1892. 

2nd.     Helen,  b.  in  1885;  is  dec. 

3d.     Robert  Carlton,  b.  in  1886,  in  Chicago. 

4th.     Howard,  b.  in  1889;   is  dec. 

3.  Reuben  Earl,  b.  30  Mar.,  1866;  mar.  27  Dec,  1887,  in  Frank- 
lin Grove,  111.,  Ella  May  Lahman;  is  a  prominent  jeweler  in  Lansing, 
one  of  the  city  commissioners,  an  officer  of  the  boat  club.     Issue: 

1st.     Clara  Lahman,  b.  8  Oct.,  1887,  in  Lansing. 

4.  Helen  Lois,  b.  6  Aug.,  1871;  d.  16  Dec,  1896,  in  Alabama. 


576  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 


FAMILY    NO.   61. 


From  Family  No.    41.       Descent:     Richard,  James,    Nathan,   John„ 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Martin  S.,  Martin  S. 

Martin  S.  Brackett  was  born  May  1,  1837,  in  Camillus,  N.  Y.; 
is  deceased;  married  December  29,  1858,  in  Bellevue,  Mich.,  Harriet 
Augusta  Bond,  born  April  20,  1841,  in  Bellevue;  resided  in  Cedar 
Springs,  Mich.     Issue: 

1.  Vera  Estelle,  b.  28  Oct.,  1861;  a  teacher  of  music. 

2.  Mary  Eovisa,  b.  17  Dec,  1863;  mar.  Maurice  Blood.     Issue: 
1st.     Howard  Earl,  b.  26  Feb.,  1887. 

3.  Martin  Earl,  b.  9  June,   1865;  mar.   25  Dec,    1885,  Josephine 
Williams;  resided  in  Petoskey,  Mich.;  later,  in  Portland,  Ind. 

4.  Myrtie  May,  b.  20  Feb.,  1872;  d.  21  Apr.,  1872. 

FAMILY    NO.    62. 

From  Family  No.  41.  Descent:  Richard,  James,  Nathan,  John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Martin  S.,  Frank  C. 
Frank  Crosby  Brackett,  a  farmer  and  commercial  salesman  of 
Sheridan,  Mich.,  was  born  September  16,  1852,  in  Bellevue,  Mich.; 
he  removed  to  Sheridan  in  1872,  to  California  in  1886,  to  Grand 
Rapids,  Mich.,  in  1891,  to  Chicago  in  1895,  and  returned  to  Sheridan 
in  1901;  was  educated  in  the  college  at  Cedar  Falls,  la.;  has  been 
president  of  the  village  government  of  Sheridan.  Married  September 
1,  1875,  Margaret  Fargo,  born  March  9,  1854,  daughter  of  Daniel  T. 
and  wife,  Phebe  A.  Root,  of  Ionia,  Mich.     Issue: 

1.  Anna  Fargo,  b.  12  July,  1876;   mar.  4  June,  1901,  Sherman  M. 
Gobel;  resides  in  Winnetka,  Cook  co.,  111.     Issue: 

1st.      Paul,  b.  23  Jan.,  1903. 

2nd.     Richard  Brackett,  b.  4  July,  1906. 

2.  Robert  D.,  b.  9  July,  1886;  resides  in  Winnetka. 

FAMILY    NO.   63. 

From   Family  No.   41.      Descent:     Richard,    James,   Nathan,   John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Martin  S.,  David  E. 

David  Ezra  Brackett,  a  clothier  in  Lansing,  Mich.,  was  born 
May  17,  1857,  in  Bellevue,  Mich.;  resided  in  Bellevue,  Sheridan, 
Lansing,  Bellevue,  Jackson  and  Lansing,  Mich.;  is  a  clothier.  Mar- 
ried September  17,  1884,  Caroline  Louvisa  Bradly.     Issue: 

1.  Frank  Carl,  b.  4  Sept.,  1885. 

2.  Harry  Dwight,  b.  7  Oct.,  1887. 

3.  David  Earl,  b.  31  Aug.,  1889. 

FAMILY    NO.    64. 

From  Family  No.  44.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,   Nathan, 
James,  John  A.,  William  W..  Edgar  T. 

Edgar  Truman  Brackett,  born  July  30,  1853,  at  Emerson's  Cor- 
ners, in  the  town  of  Wilton,  Saratoga  county,  N.  Y.,  is  an  attorney 
in  Saratoga  Springs,  N.  Y.  In  his  childhood  his  parents  removed  to 
Mount  Vernon,   Linn  county,   la.,   where  he  grew  to  manhood.     In 


NATHAN,     OF     BRAINTREE  577 

1872  he  graduated  from  the  classical  course  of  Cornell  college  at 
Mount  Vernon,  a  denominational  institution  of  learning,  under  the 
management  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  church.  In  September  of 
the  same  year,  he  came  to  Saratoga  Springs  and  began  the  study  of 
law  in  the  office  of  Pond  &  French;  was  admitted  to  the  bar  at  the 
Elmira  general  term  in  June,  1875,  and  in  the  same  month  received 
from  his  Alma  Mater,  the  degree  of  master  of  arts,  which  also,  in  1898, 
conferred  upon  him  the  degree  of  doctor  of  laws.  In  the  spring  of 
1876,  he  became  a  member  of  the  firm  of  Pond,  French  &  Brackett, 
which  continued  for  twelve  years;  became  the  head  of  the  firm, 
Brackett,  Butler  &  Bancus;  is  now  practicing  his  profession  alone 
and  his  clientage  is  among  the  largest  of  the  lawyers  of  Saratoga 
county;  is  frequently  sought  by  attorneys  to  assist  in  the  trying  of 
their  cases  before  juries  or  in  the  argument  of  appeals  before  appel- 
late tribunals;  was  elected  state  senator  in  1895;  appointed  chairman 
of  the  committee  of  Affairs  of  Villages,  and  a  member  of  the  Judici- 
ary, Railroad  and  Public  Education  committees;  re-elected  in  1898; 
in  1899,  appointed  chairman  of  Judiciary  committee,  and  a  member 
of  several  other  committees;  served  as  senator  until  January  1,  1907. 

His  independent  course  as  a  legislator  has,  from  time  to  time, 
attracted  public  attention  outside  of  the  state  of  New  York.  Perhaps 
it  is  a  misnomer  in  calling  his  course  "independent;"  it  is  much  bet- 
ter described  as  "regular"  in  the  use  of  that  word  as  signifying  the 
performance  of  the  duties  of  the  office  in  disregard  of  the  commands 
of  individuals,  the  undue  promotion  of  whose  private  interests  require 
the  control  of  the  law-making  power.  One  is  loathe  to  call  the  course 
of  a  legislator  as  "regular"  who  regards  those  commands.  In  brief, 
Senator  Brackett  determines  for  himself  his  course  and  neither  threats 
nor  promises  have  deterred  or  swerved  him  therefrom.  His  many 
admirers  have  suggested  and  are  promoting  his  candidacy  for  the 
office  of  governor.  To  no  one  man  is  more  due  the  credit  for  the 
recent  legislation  in  New  York  in  regard  to  the  control  of  insurance 
companies,  than  to  the  fearless  senator  from  the  Twenty-eighth  dis- 
trict. 

Senator  Brackett  has  taken  a  great  interest  in  educational  insti- 
tutions; for  several  years  he  has  served  as  a  member  of  the  committee 
on  Public  Education;  recently  he  gave  to  Cornell  college,  Mount 
Vernon,  la.,  the  sum  of  thirty  thousand  dollars. 

Married  November  22,  1882,  Mary  Emma  Corliss.     Issue: 

1.  Edgar  Truman,  Jr.,  b.  25  Mar.,  1890;  d.  10  July,  1899. 

2.  Charles  William,  b.  26  Nov.,  1892. 

FAMILY    NO.   65. 

From  Family  No.  45.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  John  A.,  Henry  R.,  Jefferson  S. 

Jefferson  Smith  Brackett  was  born  July  14,  1852,  in  Fortsville, 
N.  Y.;  has  resided  in  Albany,  Wilton,  and  Glens  Falls,  N.  Y.,  Bos- 
ton, and  Ontario,  Canada,  in  the  order  named;  is  a  watchman;  mar- 
ried December  2,  1874,  Mary  Ellen  Wakeley,  born  February  10, 
1858,  daughter  of  William  M.  and  wife,  Eliza  Catharine  Smith,  of 
South  Glens  Falls.  N.  Y.     Issue: 


578  BRACKETT     GENEALOGY 

1.  Charles  J.,  b.  8  Mar.,  1876;  is  an  engineer;  home,  in  Boston; 
mar.  8  Jan.,  1896,  Penola  Hollenbeek,  b.  3  July,  1872,  dau.  of  John 
and  wife,  Delia  K.  Fluewelling,  of  Cambridge,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Edgar  Truman,  b.  25  July,  1898. 

2nd.     Henry  Samuel  Charles,  b.  2  Mar.,  1900. 

2.  Evabella.  b.  11  Mar.,  1886. 

3.  Elon  Alphonse,  b.  12  July,  1898;  d.  13  July,  1898. 

FAMILY    NO.    66. 

From  Family  No.  51.     Descent:     Richard,  James,   Nathan,  Nathan, 
James,  Truman  F.,  James  H.,  Byron  B. 

Byron  Briggs  Braekett  was  born  August  13,1865,  near  Ira,  N.  Y.; 
electrical  engineer,  and  teacher  of  applied  physics  at  school  of  tech- 
nology in  Potsdam,  N.  Y.  In  1877,  moved  with  parents  to  Hannibal, 
N.  Y.;  1882-5,  student  at  Cazenovia  seminar}',  N.  Y.;  student  1S85- 
1890  at  Syracuse  university,  N.  Y.;  1890-2,  taught  higher  mathe- 
matics at  Williamsport  Dickenson  seminary,  Williamsport,  Pa.; 
1892-3,  taught  higher  mathematics  and  mechanical  drawing  in  the 
collegiate  department  of  Adelphi  academy,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.;  1893-7, 
graduate  student  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  university,  Baltimore,  Md.; 
assisted  in  electrical  engineering  instruction  at  the  university  during 
the  last  three  years,  1894-7;  :897-8,  instructor  in  electricity  at  Union 
college.  Schenectady,  N.  Y.;  spring  and  summer  of  1898,  inspected 
and  tested  torpedo  cable  for  U.  S.  army;  1 898-1 900,  taught  physics 
in  Eastern  high  school,  Washington,  D.  C;  1900-1,  engineer  for 
Rowland  Telegraphic  company,  Baltimore,  Md.;  1901-3,  instructor 
in  electrical  science,  Rutgers  college,  New  Brunswick,  N.  J.;  since 
1903,  professor  of  physics  and  electrical  engineering  at  the  Thomas 
S.  Clarkson  Memorial  school  of  technology.  Member  of  Delta  Upsi- 
lon  college  fraternity;  member  of  American  association  for  Advance- 
ment of  Science;  associate  member  of  American  Institute  of  Electri- 
cal engineering;  contributor  to  leading  electrical  journals.  Married 
December  5,  1900,  in  Washington,  D.  C,  Tilla  Wilson,  born  Novem- 
ber 19,  1865,  daughter  of  Joshua  Thomas  and  wife,  Mary  Catharine 
Jordan,  of  Cory  don,  Ind.     Issue: 

1.     Richard  Thomas,  b.  9  Mar.,  1903. 


TENTH  GENERATION. 


FAMILY   NO.   67. 

From   Family   No.   56.     Descent:     Richard,    James,    Nathan,   John. 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Ezra,  Theodore  D.,  Ezra  A. 

Ezra  Albert  Braekett,  a  commission  merchant  in  Denver,  Colo.. 
was  born  December  6,  1868,  in  Battle  Creek,  Mich.;  married  Septem- 
ber 16,  1889,  Bertha  M.  Hill,  born  August  22,  1871,  daughter  of 
Alfred  and  wife,  Annie  Northup,  of  Denver.     Issue: 

1.  Glenn  Ezra,  b.  28  July,  1890. 

2.  John  Raymond,  b.  14  Nov.,  1893. 

3.  Alfred  Hill,  b.  6  Apr.,  1898. 


NATHAN,     OF     BRAINTREE  579 

FAMILY   NO.    68. 

From  Family  No.   56.      Descent:     Richard,  James,    Nathan,    John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Ezra,  Theodore  D.,  Ellas  O. 

Ellas  Orrin  Brackett  resides  in  Golden,  Colo.;  he  was  born  Feb- 
ruary 22,  1872,  in  Maryville,  Mo.;  married  August  30,  1893,  Myrtle 
M.  Swena,  born  May  12,  1875,  in  Denver.     Issue: 

1.  Charles  Floyd,  b.  1  Sept.,  1894. 

2.  Clarence  Leroy,  b.  18  Apr.,  1896. 

3.  Walter  Ellas,  b.  16  Apr.,  1899;  d.  19  July,  1902. 

4.  Nellie  Myrtle,  b.  11  Mar.,  1902. 

5.  Clara  Sarah,  b.  19  Feb.,  1903. 

6.  John,  b.  27  June,  1906. 

FAMILY    NO.    69. 

From  Family  No.  58.       Descent:      Richard,  James,   Nathan,  John, 
Christopher,  Ezra,  Ezra,  Albert,  Ernest  R. 

Ernest  R.  Brackett,  an  importer  and  wholesale  commission  mer- 
chant in  New  York  city,  was  born  April  3,  1878,  in  Coldwater,  Mich.; 
since  he  reached  man's  estate  he  has  resided  in  the  East;  commenced 
his  present  business  when  but  a  year  or  so  past  his  majority,  and  has 
attained  a  marked  degree  of  success;  has  agencies  in  several  of  the 
states.  Married  Mary  Hosford,  daughter  of  Isaac  and  wife,  Eliza- 
beth Killian  Lord.     Issue: 

1.  Hosford,  b.  8  Apr.,  1901. 

2.  Boneta,  b.  31  Jan.,  1903. 

3.  Ernestyne,  b.  16  May,  1906. 


APPENDIX. 


FAMILY    NO.    7.  DIVISION    NO.    2 

(continued  from  p.   128) 

Joseph  Braekett  died  December  20,  1906. 
3.  Josephine  (Marian),  b.  3  Feb.,  1851,  in  Lynn,  Mass.;  mar. 
28  June.  1870,  Mark  J.  Worthier,  manufacturer  of  shoes,  b.  5  Oct., 
1844,  son  of  Luke  and  wife,  Elizabeth  Poor,  of  Antrim,  N.  H.,  and 
Lowell  and  Andover.  Mass.  Home,  in  Boston;  formerly  resided  in 
Swampscott  and  Lynn,  Mass.     Issue: 

1st.     Mark  Walter,  b.    16  Mar.,    1871;    d.  in  Mar.,    1900;   mar. 
28  Oct.,  1896,  Ida  M.  Trask.     Issue: 

I.  Vivian,  b.  22  Oct.,  1897. 

II.  Mildred,  b.  in  1899. 

2nd.     Howard  Franklin,  b.  16  Feb..  1873. 
3d.     Ralph  Livingston,  b.  2  Feb.,  1875;  d.  24  Dec,  1880. 
4th.     Pauline  Josephine,  b.  10  Feb.,  1877. 
5th.     Mildred  Hobart,  b.  12  Oct.,  1879;  d.  22  Mar.,  1882. 
6th.     Herbert    Clement,  b.   8  Oct.,    1882;    mar.    30   July,    1902, 
Harriet  Haskell. 

7th.     Everett  Poor,  b.  28  Oct.,  1884. 


FAMILY    NO.    10.  DIVISION    NO.    11 

(continued  from  p.  326) 

2.  Albert,  b.  10  Sept.,  1837;  mar.  (2nd)  23  Oct.,  1903,  Marcia  K. 
Marshall,  widow,  dau.  of  Ira  MacAllister  and  wife,  Lucinda  Lovering. 
Mr.  Braekett  now  (1907)  resides  in  Billerica,  Mass. 


FAMILY    NO.    2.  DIVISION    NO.    14 

(continued  from  p.  384) 

Joshua  Braekett  married  Eunice  Parsons. 


;,sL<  APPENDIX 

CHAPTER    VIII. 

SAMUEL    BRACKETT,    THE   FIRST    IN    BERWICK. 

The  wife  of  Samuel  was  Elizabeth  Botts,  daughter  of  Isaac  Botts. 
Mr.  W.  D.  Spencer,  of  Berwick,  Me.,  wrote  that  he  half-guessed  that 
the  maiden  name  of  the  wife  of  Isaac  Botts  was  Elizabeth  Freathy; 
that  "Moses  Spencer  [she  married  (2nd)  Spencer],  one  of  her  sons, 
had  a  son  Freathy,  who  was  the  oldest.  Now  Moses'  wife  was  a 
daughter  of  Joseph  Abbott;  the  name,  Freathy,  does  not  occur  in  her 
lineage." 

Anthony  Brackett,  described  as  of  Walpole,  Mass.,  served  in 
Colonel  Joseph  Read's  and  Colonel  Thomas  Craft's  regiments  from 
May,  1775,  to  September.  1777. 

Anthony  Brackett,  described  as  of  Boston,  served  as  a  soldier  in 
the  Continental  army  in  1778;  was  a  resident  of  Boston;  at  time  of 
enlistment  he  was  twenty-eight  years  old.  This  man  had  fair  com- 
plexion, dark  hair,  blue  eyes,  and  stood  five  feet  seven  inches  in 
height.  Served  in  Colonel  Jabez  Hatch's  Boston  regiment.  In  the 
same  organization  served  a  Nathaniel  Brackett.  Also,  Nathaniel  and 
Anthony  Brackett  of  Roxbury,  served  as  privates  in  Captain  Hope- 
still  Hall's  company.  Colonel  Lemuel  Robinson's  regiment;  each 
served  twenty-one  days. 

An  Anthony  Brackett  of  Stoughtonham,  Mass.,  served  in  Captain 
Ebenezer  Tisdale's  company,  which  marched  on  the  alarm  of  April  19, 
1775;  service  of  twenty-two  days. 

Anthony  Brackett  was  enrolled  April  20,  1776,  to  serve  in  Cap- 
tain Jonathan  Danforth's  company,  Colonel  Asa  Whitcomb's  regi- 
ment; reported,  "deserted  April  25,  1776,"  on  muster  roll  dated  at 
Camp  Ticonderoga,  November  27,  1776. 

Anthony  Brackett  married  June  20,  1770,  Annah  Rhoads;  both 
of  Dedham. 

Anthony  Brackett  married  September  27,  1752,  Margaret  Baeth, 
both  of  Charlestown.  He  may  have  been  the  son  of  Anthony  of  Bos- 
ton, whom  the  latter  described  in  his  will  as  "went  beyond  seas,"  by 
his  first  marriage.      (See  chapter  X.) 

The  names  Anthony  and  Joshua  are  not  borne  by  any  descend- 
ants in  the  male  line  of  Richard  of  Braintree;  hence,  it  is  concluded 
that  these  Anthonys  and  the  Nathaniel,  who  was  probably  a  brother 


APPENDIX  583 

of  the  Anthony  of  Roxbury,  were  descendants  of  Anthony  of  Ports- 
mouth, although  they  served  in  regiments  raised  in  Massachusetts. 
Endeavor  has  been  made  to  enumerate  all  the  male  descendants  of 
Anthony  of  Portsmouth;  it  is  belived  that  there  has  been  presented 
the  names  of  all  belonging  to  the  early  generations  whose  lineage 
from  him  is  through  his  sons  Anthony,  Thomas  and  John.  The 
lineage  of  these  Anthonys  has  not  been  traced  through  said  sons.  It 
is  probable  that  the  immigrant  Anthony  had  at  least  one  more  son;  I 
shall  rather  presume  that  he  had  than  account  for  the  descent  of  said 
four  Anthonys  and  Nathaniel  Brackett  through  any  of  his  known 
sons,  and  shall  designate  said  other  son  as  the  Francis  Brackett  to 
whom  relates  the  following:  — 

"Jacob,  son  of  Francis  and  Frances  Brackett,  born  August  14, 
1696"  (see  Record  of  Births  and  Baptism  in  Boston).  In  1739,  a 
Francis  Brackett  of  Exeter,  N.  H.,  signed  a  petition  for  annexation 
of  New  Hampshire  to  Massachusetts. 

Thomas  Brackett  was  born  October  10,  1795,  in  Maine;  died 
July  12.  1865;  lived  at  Rockaway  Beach  and  in  Brooklyn;  was  a 
mariner;  married  about  1821,  Elizabeth  Nostand,  born  May  11,  1806, 
died  in  May,  1881,  daughter  of  Cornelius,  who  lived  on  Long  Island; 
had  a  sister,  Abigail,  who  married  (1st)  Rider;  (2nd)  Baker.  Issue, 
not  in  order  of  birth: 

1.  Elizabeth,  b.  1  Feb.,  1823;  d.  1  Sept.,  1849;  mar.  P.  Wells; 
no  issue. 

2.  Pro  Lucius  Delamater,  b.  12  July,  1837;  resides  in  Bayonne, 
N.  J.;  mar.  Lydia  Brown.  Children:  Emma,  b.  about  1861;  May, 
b.  about  1871;   Charles,  who  is  dec,  was  mar.,  had  dau.,  Lulu. 

3.  George  D.,  b.  20  Jan.,  1842;  d.  27  Nov.,  1883,  without  issue. 

4.  James  H.,  b.  15  Aug.,  1847;  d.  9  May,  1862. 

.">.  Thomas  Wilbur,  b.  19  July,  1849;  mar.  Anne  L.  Brown. 
Children  are  Charles  K.,  b.  14  Mar.,  1877,  and  Mary  L.,  b.  28  Aug., 
1885.     Resides  in  Bayonne,  N.  J. 

Another  branch  of  the  family  whose  lineage  has  not  been  traced 
from  an  immigrant,  and  whom  it  is  believed,  are  descendants  of 
Anthony  of  Portsmouth,  reside,  the  greater  portion,  in  Knox  county, 
Me.  This  branch  consists  of  descendants  of  Mr.  Joshua  Brackett, 
mentioned  in  "Annals  of  Warren,"  Maine.  He  was  born  in  1777; 
married  April  12,  1805,  Sarah  Weston,  and  died  February  10,  1847. 
It  is  stated  that  he  came  from  Wakefield  to  Warren.  There  are 
Westons  in  Wakefield,  Mass.,  hence,  it  is  inferred  that,  as  his  wife 
was  a  Weston,  it  was  from  Wakefield,  Mass.,  that  he  removed  to 
Warren;  he  resided  in  Sterling.  His  first  child,  a  daughter,  born 
June  5.  1806,  married  Charles  Mink.     Ira  W.,  baptized  November  8. 


584  APPENDIX 

1807,  married  Mary  Jane  Norcross;  resided  in  Argyle,  Me.  Waldo 
D.,  baptized  December  10,  1810;  never  married.  Gilman,  married 
Mary  Dickey:  had  Franklin  W.,  who  resides  in  West  Warren; 
Charles  G.,  who  resides  in  ThomastOn,  Me.;  Austin,  who  resides  in 
Warren,  Me. 

Mr.  Chandler  Brackett  of  Union,  Me.,  wrote  that  his  father, 
William  Brackett,  married  Eliza  Standish,  and  that  his  grandfather, 
Joshua  Brackett,  married  Eliza  Maclintic;  he  also  wrote  that  his 
father  died  when  he  was  a  child;  that  when  he  was  eleven  years  old, 
he  and  his  mother  left  Warren,  and,  hence,  he  knew  little  about  the 
Bracketts.  He  was  born  July  16,  1827,  in  Warren;  married  Novem- 
ber 20,  185 1,  Arvilla  Bryant;  served  in  company  E,  20th  Maine  vol- 
unteer infantry  for  three  years.  Children  are  John  E.,  who  married 
Nettie  J.  Whitcomb;  died  September  5,  1874.  Charles  R.,  who  mar- 
ried Etta  J.  Dickson;  died  March  19,  1892.  Isaac  H.,  who  married 
Abby  A.  Laney.  George  F.,  who  married  Grace  E.  Hoyt.  William, 
who  married  Rowena  Fish. 

Jared  Brackett  was  born  in  1S08;  died  February  19,  1901,  in 
Saratoga  Springs,  N.  Y.;  first  a  shoemaker,  then  a  Methodist  minis- 
ter; was  married  five  times;  resided  in  Wales,  Westfield  and  Ware, 
Mass.;  had  two  or  three  children,  of  whom  one  was  Orville  G.  He 
was  born  in  1832;  died  in  1889;  was  twice  married,  and  had  three 
children,  viz.:  Mrs.  George  H.  Phillips,  Beacon  St.,  Worcester, 
Mass.;  Mrs.  Louis  Silvey,  Camden,  N.  J.,  and  William  Henry.  The 
latter  was  born  August  14,  1853;  is  overseer  in  a  thread  mill  in  South 
Wellington,  Conn.;  married  Annie  Brownlee;  has  son,  George  Wil- 
liam. He  was  born  August  24,  1880;  married  Eena  G.  Korper; 
resides  in  Hartford,  Conn.  The  name,  Jared,  occurs  in  the  Brockett 
family. 

Bracketts  settled  at  an  early  day  in  Rutherford  county,  North 
Carolina;  their  descendants  removed  from  there  to  Franklin  county, 
Georgia,  and  Jackson  county,  Tennessee.  Since  -the  civil  war, 
families  of  this  branch  have  found  homes  in  Arkansas,  Texas  and 
Oklahoma.  The  progenitor  of  this  branch  was  Benjamin  Brackett; 
his  wife  was  Jane  Curry.  Among  their  children  were  Thomas,  born 
about  1780;  Morgan,  born  about  1790;  William,  called  Buck;  and 
Atkins.  William  had  son,  Felix.  Another  of  the  third  generation 
was  Aulston  (married  Mary  Marshall),  born  about  1795;  died  in  July, 
1867.  His  son  William,  deceased,  served  in  company  G,  34th 
Georgia  volunteer  infantry,  C.  S.  A.,  from  1862  to  the  close  of  the 
war;  married  Jane  McMurray.  Children  are  James  A.;  William  T.; 
and  Charles  E.  Another  son  of  Aulston  Brackett,  was  John,  born 
June  18,  1827;  died  September  21,  1885;  served  in  the  cavalry,  C^er 


APPENDIX  585 

federate  army;  married  -  -  Sewell.  Among  his  children  are  John 
A.;  A.  \\\,  and  Jefferson  Davis  Brackett.  The  last  named  was  born 
June  i,  1861;  resides  at  Rural  Vale,  Tenn.;  married  Mollie  E. 
Worthy,  who  died  May  29,  1895;  he  again  married  subsequent  to 
1900;  has  daughter,  Lillie  P.,  born  August  6,  1890.  There  are 
many  other  descendants  of  Benjamin  Brackett. 

There  is  a  branch  of  the  family  in  Halifax,  N.  S.  Andrew 
Brackett  was  its  progenitor.  He  was  born  in  England,  in  1785;  died 
in  1867;  married  Mary  McDaniel,  daughter  of  Michael;  came  to 
America  in  1830,  on  the  "Lord  Cornwallis,"  and  settled  at  Bear 
Cove,  N.  S.  His  son,  Thomas,  married  Hannah  Holt,  of  England, 
and  had  sixteen  children,  nearly  all  of  whom  reside  in  Nova  Scotia; 
one  of  the  daughters  went  to  reside  in  the  state  of  Washington. 
Another  son,  Redman,  born  in  1828;  died  in  i860;  married  Amelia 
Darrach,  daughter  of  Archibald.  Issue:  Archibald;  Andrew; 
James;  and  John.  Archibald,  born  in  1850;  married  Elizabeth 
Munro;  children  are  Mabel  G.;  Mary  C;  Agatha;  and  Hugh  John, 
born  in  1893.  James  married  Thressa  Munro;  his  children  are  Red- 
man; Hugh  U.;  James.  Andrew  married  Mary  A.  Reyno;  has  sons, 
Wallace;   Vincent;   Benedict. 

William  Brackett  was  born,  lived,  and  died  in  England;  married 
July  11,  1814,  Ann  Moss.  Two  of  his  sons  were  Percival  (born  in 
1817,  died  in  1893),  and  Edmund;  the  latter  lived  in  Australia. 
Their  oldest  son,  Frederick  William,  born  in  1815,  died  in  1872, 
leaving  no  issue.  His  widow,  Elizabeth,  lived  in  Brixton,  England, 
and  died  July  9,  1906.  Her  estate  of  over  sixty  thousand  dollars, 
she  bequeathed  to  the  children  of  her  husband's  brothers,  eight  in 
number.  If,  at  the  end  of  two  years,  none  of  them  are  found,  the 
estate  will  be  divided  among  certain  hospitals  in  London.  Heirs 
were  advertised  for  in  September,  1906,  in  "Loudon  Times." 

William  Brackett,  a  successful  estate  agent  of  Tunbridge- Wells, 
head  of  the  firm  of  Brackett  &  Sons  (London  office,  34  Craven  St., 
Charing  Cross),  commenced  his  present  business  in  Tunbridge- Wells, 
in  1865,  and  now  has  the  largest  of  the  kind  in  the  south  of  England. 
His  father,  Joshua  Brackett,  commenced  business  as  a  bookseller  and 
printer,  in  1823,  in  Sudbury,  Suffolk,  and  in  1835,  removed  to  Col- 
chester, where  he  continued  in  business  until  his  death,  in  1S76. 
The  father  of  Joshua  was  the  Rev.  Mr.  William  Brackett;  in  his  early 
days  he  was  a  printer  in  Sudbury,  and  from  1795  to  his  death,  in 
1802,  was  a  Baptist  minister  at  Waleham  Abbey,  in  Essex;  he  was 
son  of  William  Brackett,  born  about  1730  (Seep.  7).  Arthur  W. 
and  Frederick  H.  Brackett  are  sons  of  William  Brackett  of  Tunbridge- 
Wells. 


-   \ 


INDEX 


BRACKETTS 


Aaron,  355,  487,   192. 
Abigail,    176,    210,    282, 

297,    301,335,349,355, 

488,  489. 
Abigail 

in    Merrill,    86. 

"    Anthony,  91. 

"   Belcher,   121. 

"   Frenchman,    122. 

"    Moore,   143. 

"    Bronson,    148. 

' '    Woodcock,    149. 

"    Green,  160. 

"    Lowell,   164. 

"   Bailey,  191. 

"   Kelley,   205. 

"   Chandler,    207. 

"   Stackpole,    221. 

"    Coy,   222. 

"    Townsend,    244. 

"    Remick,  254. 

"   Pray,  254. 

' '    Moses,  267. 

"   Burrell,   272. 

' '    Fenderson,    300. 

"   Brewer,  324. 

"   McCann,  325. 

"   Mosher,  338. 

"   Dalton,  352. 

"   Durell,   379. 

"   Dickey,  382. 

"   Harford,  385. 

"    Bivinius,  424. 

"    Eedlon,  429. 

"    Smith,  456. 

"   Eaton,  487. 

"   Belcher,  519. 

"   Veazie,    538. 

"   Hunt,  542. 

"    Hutchinson,    549. 

"   Eider,   581. 
Abraham,   142,   146,  148, 

233,  238,  243. 
Achsah,  270.  558. 
Ada,   131,  287,  288,  464. 
Adella,  211,  250. 
Addie,     172,     175,     334, 

342,  403,  433. 
Addison,  394. 
Adelaide,  565. 


Adino,    454,     461,     462, 

474. 
Adrain,  525. 
Agnes,  335,  347. 
Albert,     179,     181,     211, 

281,  287,  302,382,406, 

434,  458,  471. 
Albert 

m  Davis,   129. 

"   Jones,   173. 

"   Abbott,  326. 

"   Madden,  335. 

"   Bunton,   382. 

"   Dav,  428. 

"    McAllister,    434. 

' '    Briggs,  467. 

' '   Devereaux,    474. 
Albertine,  192. 
Albion,     182,    430,    432, 

434. 
Alex,  131. 
Alexander,   204. 
Alfa,  430. 
Alfred,     151,     224,     245, 

283,  424,  482. 
Alfreda,    180,    239,    247. 

302,  308,  428,474,510, 

527. 
Alice 

m  Bishop,   204. 

"   Hathaway,    237. 

"    Pratt,  241. 

"    Hinckley,  245. 

"   Libby,  249. 

"   Hayes,  283. 

"    Dewing,  306. 

"    McKusick,     335. 

"   Marshall,    336. 

"    Hunt,  403. 

"   Spear,  434. 

"   Prescott,   456. 

"   Walker,   459. 

"   Smyth,  476. 

"   Beal,  527. 

"    Nightengale,    529. 
Allen,  328,  492. 
Alma,  164,  172,  258. 
Almeda,  333. 
Almira,    235,     240,     278, 

517. 


Almon,  231. 

Almoren,  181. 

Alonzo,  153,  403,  521. 

Alpheus,  180. 

Alton,  179,  224. 

Althea,  301. 

Alva,  224,  325,  334. 

Alvarado,  196,  206. 

Alvernice,   174. 

Alvin,  174. 

Amanda,  194. 

Ambrose,   130. 

Amos,  143,  177,  195,  206, 

404,  503. 
Amy,  286,  404. 
Ann,    86,   123,    273,   378, 

430. 
Ann 

m  Leavitt,  71. 

"   Paxon,   120. 

"    Winslow,    234. 

"   Newcomb,    238. 

"   Nutter,  260. 

' '   Pickering,    372. 

"    Paul,  425. 

"    Little,  448. 

"   Wallace,  552. 
Anna,    6,    156,    224,    268, 

331,  336,  505,511,536, 

563,  572. 
Anna 

m  Pride,  185. 

"    Dennison,    202. 

"   Edwards,    246. 

"   Neal,  254. 

"   Cartland,    259. 

"    Garland,  374. 

"   Russell,  380. 

"    Shelton,  475. 

' '    Lewis,  559. 

"    Neff,  569. 

*'   Gobel,  576. 
Anne,  168,  172,  512,553. 
Annie,     152,     154,     180, 

208,    252,343,433,465. 
Annie 

m  Haley,    195. 

"   Pickens,    250. 

"    Pinney,  299. 

"    Bvrons,  334. 


588 


INDEX 


in    Robinson,    432. 

in  Lary,    284. 

553,  554,  555,  561,  574, 

••    Skillings,    434. 

"    Fogg,  300. 

577,  599. 

"    Harvey,  513. 

"    Tibbetts.    348. 

Charles 

A  ml  row.     L52,    181, 

21<), 

"    Chamberlain.    351. 

m  Smith,  153. 

243.  562. 

' '    Chapman,    389. 

"    Smith,  156. 

Angie,  237. 

"    Small,  458. 

' '    Piper,   156. 

Angeline,  3  t9. 

"    Fickett,  460. 

"    Leach,  173. 

Angelina,    194.    lis. 

' '    Washburn,   546. 

"    Talbot.  177. 

Annette,  302. 

' '    Spinage.    547. 

"    Bovd.   179. 

Ansel,  276. 

' '    Cunningham,    555. 

"    Stone.  195. 

Anson,     L53,     251, 

391. 

' '    Nickerson,    564. 

' '    Leighton,  205. 

397,  398,  502. 

"    Curry,   584. 

"    Preble,  208. 

Anthony,    L06,    L56, 

180, 

Benning,  366,  377. 

'  <    Hilton,  238. 

181,   582. 

Bernice,  475. 

"    Tennev,   246. 

Anthony 

Bert,  283.  420. 

"    Libby',  248. 

in  ,  47. 

Bertha,     281,     305,     336, 

"    Frost,   248. 

"    Mitton,   60. 

338,  474. 

"    ,  250. 

" .  76. 

Bertrand,  283. 

"    Roberts,  275. 

"    Maylem,    102. 

Bessie.     206,     224.     283, 

"    Mclntvre.    275. 

"    Shaw,    143. 

300,  305.  380,431,461. 

"    Button,    275. 

"    Wilson,     149. 

Blaine,  334. 

"    Grant,   278. 

"    I  .awry,  153. 

Blanch,     247,     356,    405, 

"    Wiggin,   279. 

' '    Chapman,    158. 

506. 

"    Atwell,  283. 

"    Estes,  166. 

Boneta,  570. 

"   .  284. 

"    Coffey,  230. 

Bruce,  210,  403,  483. 

"    Heard,  284. 

"    Knight,   41n. 

Budd,  382. 

••    Hasty,  298. 

"    Rhoads,   582. 

Burton,  157,  210. 

"    French,   300. 

"    Baeth,    582. 

Burnie,  404. 

" ,  301. 

Apollos,  555,  556. 

Byron,  210,  211,  429. 

"    Chadbourne,   302. 

Arabella,  276. 

Caleb,  247. 

"    Pilley,  303.' 

Araxene.  426. 

Calista,  170. 

"    Chapman.   308. 

Archibald,  585. 

Calvin,  202,  352. 

"    Wilkins,  325. 

Arlene,  517. 

Carl,  180. 

"   ,  326. 

Arolin,  170. 

Carlos,  181. 

"   Worthen,  335. 

Arthur.     12!),     180, 

24s. 

Caroline.    148,    288.    295. 

"    Shedd,  335. 

275.   270,   307.  308, 

310, 

335.  431,  497,  516. 

"    Benson,  338. 

334,   355,   357,433, 

435, 

Caroline 

"    Furlong,  351. 

512.  585. 

m  Bingham,    288. 

"   Chadbourne,   357. 

Arvlin,  51  7. 

"    Dolliver,  333. 

"    Shorey,  357. 

Asa.    144,    150,   280, 

352, 

"    Edgecomb,   394. 

"    Peabody,  378. 

.12  1. 

"    Mossier,  395. 

"   Overlook,    382. 

Asenath,  286. 

"    Phillips,  426. 

"   Pitts,  382. 

Attie,    135. 

"    Lang,  43i. 

"    Lamphrey,   383. 

Atwood,  2  is. 

"    'ireenwood,    497. 

"   Phillips,    383. 

Augusta,    15  1.   551. 

"    Tilton,  499. 

"    Jordan,  430. 

Augustus,  402. 

' '    Robinson,  550. 

"    Thorts,  431. 

\  ii  N.t  o ii.    584. 

"    Whipple,  551. 

"    Cook,  431. 

Aurick,  514. 

' '    Loring,   5^>~>. 

"    Wilson,    466. 

A  list  in,  584. 

"   Ruddock,  550. 

"    Mercer,   475. 

Avis,  502. 

"    Bolles.  568. 

"    Tucker.   484. 

Azariah,  325.  326. 

Carrie,     153.     210.     243, 

"    Gay,  497. 

Bailey,   17 1. 

298,  301.  352.  356,563, 

"   Whitney,  498. 

Barnabas,  218. 

571. 

"    Ellis,  504. 

Bathsheba,  98,  101. 

Catharine,  224,  239,  261, 

"    Foster.   507. 

Belle,  153,  224,  225, 

280, 

201.  323,  389. 

"    Batchelder,   511. 

306. 

Cecil.  280,  525. 

"    Higgins,  51  2. 

Belinda,  545. 

<Vh-ste,  152. 

"    Wakefield,    525. 

1  h'ii  jainiii 

Cephas,  207,  498,  511. 

' '    Barnes,  532. 

in   Davis,  His. 

Chandler.    489,    584. 

"    Hoopes,  533. 

"    Suow,   147. 

Chapin,  344. 

"    Parish,  549. 

"    Tillson.    152. 

Chapman,  170. 

"    Bugber,    551. 

"    Tufts.  2()7. 

Charles,    178.     196.    207, 

' '    Springstead,   568. 

" ,  216. 

208,  240,  246,274,301, 

' '    Belser,  571. 

"    Irish,  238. 

333,    334.349,383,392, 

"    Fluewelling,    578. 

"    Tinerdale,   249. 

399,    403,471,473,475, 

"    Dickson,   584. 

"    Clifford,  280. 

482,    506,  512,  516,  533, 

Charleston.   279. 

1  INDEX 

589 

m  Davis,    191 , 

m  Chaffee,  523. 

m  Davis,   497. 

Charlotte,   126,    127. 

187, 

"   ,  545. 

"    Manchester,    501. 

193.   205,   224,317, 

530. 

"   Bradley,  576. 

"    Hadley,   511. 

Chester,  488. 

Deborah,    120,    143, 

257, 

"    Radcliffe,    514. 

Christopher,  545,  566. 

386,    394,441,445, 

447. 

"    Hale,   530. 

( 'hurt',  574. 

DeForrest,  130. 

Edwin,     208,     309, 

343, 

Clara,    129,   274.  282, 

332, 

Delia,  428. 

349,  427,  503,  505, 

512. 

351,    357,525,561, 

569, 

Delicia,  377. 

Erne,  248,  251,  256, 

565. 

.174.  579. 

Dennis,  237,  245,  429. 

Elbridoe,    177,   343, 

488. 

Clarinda,  397.  553. 

Dewitt,  503. 

Elias,  151. 

< llarissa,   1 18,  5 1 9,  ~>~ 

■o 

Dexter,  192,  512. 

Elijah,  230,  401,  52£ 

. 

Clarence,    L29,   246, 

250, 

Disa,  210. 

Eliphal,  549,  561. 

307,  352,  375,  434, 

564, 

Dolly.  141. 

Elkanah,   400,   40^ 

.-,79. 

Dominions,  301. 

Eliphalet.    375. 

Claude,  225,  307. 

Donald,  310. 

Elisha,  217. 

Clayton,  248. 

Dora,  404. 

Eliza,  206,  354,  405. 

Clement,  238. 

Dorcas,     191,    231, 

278, 

Eliza 

Clifton,   248, 

281. 

m  Small,  169. 

<  llinton,  549. 

Doris,  211. 

"    Bristow,  242. 

Clnn.  173. 

Dorothv,    98,     278, 

512, 

"    Andrew  D.,  244. 

Port,  294,  367,  442. 

543. 

"    Guelaw,   247. 

i  lonsl  anee,  343,  383. 

Dorrice,  178. 

"    Bodwell,    270. 

Cora,   173,   177,  247, 

288, 

Draxev,  271. 

"    Webber,    298. 

381,   130,   164,  571, 

575. 

Dwight,  432. 

"    Prescott,  348. 

Corinne,  239. 

Dwinal,  194. 

"    Bennett,  374. 

<  lornelia,  524. 

Earl,  181,   210,  252. 

' '    Gardner,  419. 

<  lornelius,  144,  207. 

Eben,  131,  394. 

"    Morrill,  445. 

Cox,  230. 

E.  C,  154. 

' '    Locke,  484. 

<  'i;iw  ford,  522. 

Ebenezer 

"    Mayo,  497. 

Cynthia,  188,  555. 

m  Gowen,  260. 

"   Bartlett,  521. 

(Vras,   27::,    129. 

"    Clark,  444. 

' '    Mantor,  556. 

Daisey,  181. 

"    Heale,  485. 

"    Ott,  557. 

Dana,  173,  245,  504. 

"    Thorp,  487. 

Elizabeth,  121,  179, 

205, 

D ,  245. 

"    Morse,  487. 

231,    302,333,335, 

545, 

Daniel,   189,  269,  301. 

"    ■ ,  488. 

549,  -'i^l. 

Daniel 

' '    Bobbins,  489. 

Elizabeth 

m  Whiting,    173. 

"    Gav,   490. 

m  Abbott,  98. 

"    Bennett,     174. 

" ,  490. 

"    Kilgore,    101. 

"    -        .217. 

"    Spaulding,  549 

"    Simpson,   106. 

"    Whitney,  220. 

' '    Martin,  551. 

' '    Partridge,    1 25. 

••    Ruseo,  222. 

' '    Malone,   553. 

"   Bar  stow,  127. 

•'    Gould,  229. 

"   Hildreth,  554. 

' '    Andrews,    135. 

•  •    ( lonnel,  235. 

Edd,  204. 

"    Freeman,    148. 

"    Eoscoe,    243. 

Eddie,  206. 

"    Lowell,  164. 

' '    Andrews,  256. 

Edgar,     242,     246, 

403, 

"    Mills,  169. 

••    Cook,    269. 

567,  577,  578. 

"    Coughlan,    171. 

•'     Irene.    270. 

Edith,  129,  207,  211, 

243, 

"    McDonald,    172 

"    Bean,  280. 

343,  406,  434. 

"    Cobb,  186. 

" ,   295. 

Edmund.  428,  474. 

"    Wight,   193. 

■'    Norris,  371. 

Edna.   12!t.   169,  225. 

279, 

"   Maybefry,  234. 

"    Willey,  378. 

356.  4.35. 

"    Meloy,  234. 

"    Skidmore,    400 

Edward.    153,    179. 

181, 

"   Douglas,  236. 

"   Eddy,  523. 

207.   23S,   284,  302 

331, 

"    Clark,  240. 

Darville,  243. 

342,  378,  429,  504 

532, 

"    Maverick,    244. 

Davenport,  230. 

562. 

"    Crockett,   256. 

David,  238,  269,301 

5  76. 

Edward 

' '    Bradburv,    259. 

1  >:i  \  ill 

m  Russell.  120. 

"    Warren.'  262. 

m  Fernald,  269. 

"    Berry,    238. 

"    Dearborn,    268. 

"    Beal,  282. 

"    Hill,"  244. 

"   Pray,  268. 

'•     Chase.   282. 

"    Faulkner,    248. 

"    Emery,  292. 

"    Bean,  298. 

"    Bunting,    277. 

' '    Cole,  *295. 

"    Page,    302. 

"    Hardy,  302. 

"    Martin.   295. 

"    Francis,  402. 

"    Folger,  303. 

"    Elden,  207. 

"   Bird,    190. 

"     Crane.    399. 

"   Bodge,  317. 

"    Harrington,   491. 

"    Davis.  426. 

"   Kimball,    322. 

"    Heard,' 521. 

"    ,  482. 

'•     Calvin,    349. 

590 


INDEX 


in   Grant,  350. 

"   Pickering,  362. 

"    Pickering,    367. 

"   Masson.  385. 

"    Nathaniel,    386. 

"    Voight,  390. 

"    Ellingwood,   393. 

"    Parker,  394. 

' '   James,  414. 

' '    Sawyer,  417. 

' '   Libby,  418. 

"    Cohern,  430. 

' '    Cary,  455. 

"    Leavitt,  457. 

"    Hunt,  458. 

"    Pottle,  477. 

"    Joseph,  479. 

"    Fairchild,  483. 

"    Pierce,  491. 

"    Upham,   521. 

"    Blodgette,   522. 

"    Bass,  528. 

"    Gold,  531. 

"    Carpenter,    536. 

"    Hall.  538. 

"    Collins.  543. 

"    Mann,  549. 

' '    Wilcox,  550. 

' '    Twiss,  552. 

"    Bliss,  553. 

"    Wales,  554. 

' '    Crosbv,  555. 

"    Wells,   583. 
Ella,  151.  223,  250,  306, 

332,  554,  571,  573. 
Ellas,  579. 
Ellen,  176,  251,  252,  278, 

284,    295,  333,  380,  489, 

498,  549,  563. 
Ellen 

m  Hinkley,  151. 

"    Barker,  168. 

"    Austin,  171. 

"    Fitz,  174. 

"    Dana,  221. 

"   Polley,  236. 

"    Norton,  244. 

"    Small,  247. 

"   Twombly,  274. 

"   Pierce,  274. 

"    Knight,  371. 

"   Yeaton,  373. 

"    Stiles,  424. 

"   Sidney,  523. 

"    Robinson,  550. 

"   White,  557. 

"    Wheelock,  562. 
Elinor,  46,  92,  432,  516. 
Elliott,  505. 
Elmer,     155,     246,     250, 

251,  252,  284,  525. 
Elmira,  194,  324. 
Elmore,  512. 
Elon,  578. 
Elsie,  252. 
Elsworth,  284. 


Elton,  251. 

Elva,  211. 

Elvin,  179. 

Elvira,  148,  294,  299. 

Elwood,  282. 

Elzina,  130. 

Emma,  335,  554. 

Emma 

m  Russell,  130. 

' '    Smith,  155. 

"    Nichols,  203. 

"   Mackey,   278. 

"    Springer,  334. 

"   Blaisdell,  376. 

' '    Gray,  424. 

"    Hubbard,  429. 

"    Blanchard,  492. 

"    Kincaid,  504. 

' '    Robinson,  523. 

"    Thorndike,  562. 

"    Krauze,  572. 
Emeline,    128,    168,    261, 

3°3 
Emil,  ISO. 
Emily,  151,  335,  343,  399, 

532,  556. 
Emogene,  222. 
Enoch,  168. 
Enos,  147. 
Epps.  427. 
Erie,  241. 
Ernest,     129,     154.     211, 

229,  252,  280,  332,  514. 

570,  579. 
Ernestyne,  579. 
Erwin,  336,  375. 
Essa,  249. 
Esther.     142.     146,     208, 

234,  239.  383,  429. 
Estella,  181,  280. 
Estelle.  564. 
Ethel,  224,  246,  248,  283, 

474,  514. 
Etta,  171,  195,  246,  506, 

516,  565. 
Eugene,    153,    156,    252, 

471. 
Eunice,     135,     137,     146, 

155,  186,  295,  296,  386, 

448,  474. 
Eva.   155,   179,  196,   246, 

250,  334,  424,  571. 
Evabelle,  578. 
Evaline,  251,  252. 
Evelyn,    281,    307,    343, 

432. 
Evert,  250. 
Experiance,  353. 
Ezinah,  354. 
Ezra,  357,  555,  557,  566, 

574,  575,  578. 
Fannie,     154,     204,     243, 
275,  334,  352,  395,  522. 
Farimina,  222. 
Faustina,  512. 


Flora,  208,  245,  280,  354, 

356,  556. 
Florence,   131,   270,   281, 

568. 
Floyd,  381. 
Forrest,  405. 
Forrester,  429. 
Forris,  280. 
Foster,  512. 
Frank,  181,  203,  246,  280, 

302,  335/336,  342,392, 

395,  533,  547,  568,  576. 
Frank 

m  Spear,  155. 

"    Herrington,    225. 

"    Tribon,  248. 

"    Wolf,  250. 

"    Cook.  276. 

"    Judkins,  283. 

'.*   ,  284. 

"    Beede,  305. 

"    Sawyer,  343. 

' '    Quinlan,  355. 

"   Fawcett,  358. 

"    Drinkwater,    376. 

"    Mavberry,  430. 

"    Braley,  431. 

"    Palmer,  473. 

"    Cook,  504. 

' '    Burdick,  515. 

' '   Lucas.  518. 

' '    Kanar,  570. 

"   Steele,  573. 

' '    Fargo,  576. 
Franklin,    154,   176,   281, 

429,  513,  584. 
Frances,    156,    249,    354, 

524. 
Frances 

in   Sears,  144. 

' '    Daggett,  155. 

"    Milliken.  195. 

"    Grant,  219. 

"    Falion,  277. 

"    Ansel,  278. 

"    Maxfield,  377. 

"    Parker,  393. 

' '    Moore,  425. 

"    Nightengale,    52s. 
Francis,    129,    293,    525, 

531,  583. 
Fred,  129,  335,  357.  381, 

397,  402,  506,  509. 
Fred 

m  Greenleaf,  157. 

"    Holden,  181. 

"    Holt,  250. 

"    Moulton,  275. 

"    Jones,  284. 

"    Lane,  432. 

"    Richardson,    461. 

"    Fite,  574. 
Freda,  572. 
Fredric,  504. 


INDEX 


591 


Frederick,  248,  339,  421. 

503,  504,  506,  530,  572, 

573,  585. 
Freeman,   274,   277,   556, 

568. 
Gail,  303. 
George,     143,     144,     156, 

206,  210,  225,  243,  244, 

246,  248,  280,  301,  335, 

353,  354,  355.  357,  378, 

379,  382,400,  431,435, 

461,  499,  511,  539,  543, 

549,    553,  555,  563,  573. 
George 

m  Davis,  129. 

' '    Lowell,  173. 

"  Bailey,  174. 

"    Bailey,  180. 

' '   Lathrop,  198. 

"    Tufts,  206. 

"   Kidley,  209. 

"    Huntley,  223. 

' '    Arington,  224. 

"   Pace,  225. 

"   Janes,  242. 

"   Douglass,  243. 

"    Clark,  246. 

"   Partridge,  276. 

"    Gabrelle,  306. 

"   Veasey,  331. 

"    Mandv.  334. 

"   Bock,  340. 

"    Hoyt,  341. 

"    Titcomb,  355. 

"    Cate,  363. 

"   Marston,  374. 

' '    Kelley,  377. 

"    Pickering,  379. 

"   Jones,  381. 

"    Dockum,  402. 

"    Clark,  432. 

1 '   Stevens,  435. 

' '    McPherson,    484. 

"    Shapleigh,  510. 

"    Urann,  513. 

"   Shaw,  515. 

"   Hall,  533. 

"   Farey,  533. 

"   Eldridge,  554. 

"    Merrill,  554. 

"   Sterling,  554. 

"    Hall,  568. 

' '    Perry,  569. 

"   Parsons,  573. 

"    Hoyt,   5S4. 

"    Korper,  584. 
Georgia,  210,  247,  307. 
Georgianna,      198,      374, 

497,  511,  570. 
Geneva,  281. 
Genevieve,  309. 
Geraldine,  210. 
Gertrude,   151,   174,   246, 

248,  282,  510. 
Gilbert.    342,    401,    405, 

406,  426,  489,  507. 


Gilman,    433,    504,    505, 

584. 
Gladys,    156,    211,    281, 

504. 
Glenn,  224,  578. 
Goldia,  224. 
Gorham,  401. 
Grace,  155,  156,  166,  303, 

341,  353,  356,  461,  508, 

516. 
Grace 

m  Buck,  355. 

"    Gribbin,  432. 

"   Scott,  460. 

"    Lewis,  476. 

"    Arnold,  483. 

"    Putnam,  507. 
Greenleaf,  456. 
Gussie,  249. 
Gustavus,  306. 
Guy,  210,  224,  248,  307, 

393,  430,  504,  569. 
Hallis,  352. 
Hamilton,  512. 
Hannah.    281,    393,    488, 

519. 
Hannah 

m  Thompson,  98. 

"    Shaw,  117. 

' '   Kinsley,    118. 

"    Springer,  135. 

"    Hoar,  137. 

"   Ellis,  146. 

"    Watson,  147. 

"    Laughton,   149. 

"    Sawyer,   185. 

"    Berry,  189. 

"   Morse,   192. 

"    Proctor,    230. 

"   Moody,  231. 

"   Ward,  233. 

"    Ingalls,  234. 

"    Heard,  257. 

"   Dexter,  270. 

"   Hawse,  288. 

"   Stone,  292. 

"    Nichols,  295. 

"   Dore,  345. 

"    Goodwin,  349. 

"    Quimby,  350. 

"   Buck,  352. 

"   Seward,  366. 

"    Tebbetts,  375. 

' '    Creighton,    442. 

"    Goodwin,  445. 

"    Cutting,  488. 

"    Crane,  527. 

"   Dodd,  536. 

' '   Nelson,   541. 

"   Haskins,  547. 

' '    Odiorne,   550. 

"    McClure,  552. 

"    Godfrey,    557. 
Hanover,  445. 
Hardee,  210. 
Hardy,  150. 


Harley,  434. 
Harold,     157,     182, 

426,  512. 
Harriet,    154,    180, 

248,  335,  489,  547, 
Harriet 

m  Noyes,  169. 
Dale,  177. 
Thomas,  189. 
Field,  204. 
Clark,  240. 
Spencer,   241. 
Doe,  322. 
Lamb,  324. 
Clark,  325. 
Nesburn,  334. 
Stevens,   348. 
Emery,  434. 
Hall,  514. 
Perry,  516. 
Billings,  523. 
Perkins,  547. 

H ■  m  Dear,  405. 

Harry,     177,     231, 
280,  308,  474,  497, 
513,  576. 
Hartwell,  276. 
Harvev,    332,    473, 

517. 
Haven,  524. 
Hayes,  524. 
Hazel,  182,  210,211, 

310,  428. 
Helen,  153,  205,  280, 
398,  428,  431,504, 
571. 
Henry,     153,     182, 
250,    335,488,492, 
543,  578. 
Henrv 

m  Tuttle,  174. 
Welch,  181. 
Dolloff,  206. 
Prescott,  331. 
Varnev,  341. 
Hadlock,  423. 
Illsley,  433. 
Gates,  433. 
Goodhue,   498. 
Holden,  506. 
Heywood,  510. 
Elms,  532. 
Totman,  532. 
Burgess,  548. 
Harris,  553. 
Brown,  560. 
Ford,  561. 
Ott,   569. 
Henrietta,  379,  484, 
Herbert.    156,    279, 

310,  339,  378,  489, 
Herman,    211,    246, 

484. 
Hester,  458. 
Hiram,     278,     283, 
325,  334,  335,  396, 


307, 

181, 
561. 


247, 
504, 

482. 


280, 

300, 
517, 

219, 

510. 


543. 
302, 
512. 
353, 


324, 
423. 


592 


INDEX 


I  Toll  is,  2  79. 

Homer,  358. 

Horace,     177,    207,    333. 

33s.    lv>.    Iss. 

Horatio,  237. 
Hortense,  337. 
Horton,  243. 
Howard,  309,  512. 
Huldah,  368. 
Humphrey,    27  !.   30s. 
[chabod,  386,  391. 
Ida.    238,    245,    32.1,    357. 

568. 
[daetta,  •123. 
I  lura,  525. 
lua.  2i>7. 

[nez,   L29,  335,  342. 
Ira.    23, 1.    280,    354,    396. 

583. 
Irenn.    262. 

[rene,   157,  224,  273.  276. 
Irving,     179,     206,     357. 

105,  565,  567. 
Isa.  276. 
Isaac,  553. 
Isaac 

m  Dow,  256. 

"    Libby,  259. 

"   Hambleton,    285. 

"    James.    2s(i. 

"   Clay,  287. 

••    Eticker,  296. 

"     Weeks.    301. 
"     St. Hie.     309. 

•'    Main.    498. 
"    Field,  553. 
' '     Van   Auken.  570. 
"    Lancy,   584. 
Isabel,  248,  r,f~). 

Isabella.   33s.  405. 

[sabelle,  189. 

Isaiali.  507. 

Ivory,  261,  27!*.  281. 

Ivy,  3s  I. 

Jackson,  55;;. 

Jacob.    150.   L86,  276,  347, 

351.    583. 
.lames.    1-15.  152,  154,  181, 

23ii,  301,   302,  339,  t29, 

13  1.    15s,  463,  473,  17  1, 

517,  570,  582,  583. 
James 

in    Marsh,    119. 

"   Fay,  131. 

"    Lunt,   137. 

"    Bubier,   145. 

"    Roysell,   I  Hi. 

' '    Dinsmore,    1  19. 

"   Tibbetts,    151. 

"    Whit  tier.    154. 

"    Bean,   155. 

"   Rolfe,  209. 

•'      Akers,    232. 

"    Waterhouse,    236. 
"    Close.   2  13. 
"    Scott,  244. 


m  Larrabee,    244. 

Jennie,     204,     243,     250. 

"    Rounds,   247. 

269,  301,  356,  374,433, 

"    Doughty,  250. 

435.  565. 

' '    Sullivan,  254. 

Jenette,  303. 

' '    Fogg,  259. 

Jeremiah,   186. 

"    Barker,  273. 

Jeremiah 

' '    Gowin,  274. 

m  Gooding,   160. 

'•    Thomas,  302. 

"    Oliver,  166. 

"    Lord,  311. 

"    Knight,  171. 

"    Beal,  319. 

"    Jackson,   179. 

"    Fairfield,  322. 

"    Tibbetts,  231. 

"    MeCracken,   22 (. 

"    Smart,  388. 

"    Brown,  329. 

"    ,  388. 

"    Ball,   333. 

"    Mathewson,   396. 

"    Mondy,   334. 

• '    ( loudman,  425. 

"    Subit,  337. 

Jessie,  435. 

"    Gould,  342. 

Joan,  142,  144. 

• '     (  'owell.   375. 

Joanna,  135,  223,  528. 

"    Kelley,  377. 

Job.  2ii7. 

"    Fabvan.  417. 

Joel.    178,  274. 

"    Jones,  423. 

John,    117.   123,  131,   154, 

"    Ross.   423. 

181,  196,  216,  248,253, 

"    Lord,  428. 

269,   283,  284,  293, 308, 

"    Cate,  436. 

325.  344,  351,  354,395, 

"    Morrill.  445. 

430,   474.  514.515,518, 

"    Elizabeth,  445. 

534,  541,  553,558,565, 

.    "    Ely,  455. 

568.  569,  570,571,578, 

' '    Fowler,   458. 

579,  583,  584. 

"    Emerson,   463. 

John 

"    Barker,  463. 

111   Steadman,   117. 

"    Hamilton,   473. 

"   Philbrick,    122. 

"    Belcher.  537. 

"    Richards.  127. 

' '    Spear,   541. 

"    Tibbetts,    131. 

"    Flower,   547. 

"    Aiken.  143. 

' '    Odiorne,  550. 

"    Walker,  162. 

' '    Carr,  552. 

"    Stevens,    169. 

' '    Sherman,  558. 

"    Gilman,  173. 

' '    Ketchum,  559. 

"    .Tellers.    ITS. 

"    Miller,   560. 

"    Berry,   185. 

' '    Adams,   563. 

"    Cobb.  190. 

"    Balch,   564. 

"    Toothaker,  203. 

' '    Sherman,  568. 

' '    Clapper,  205. 

1 '    Pierce,  57  1 . 

"    Alexander,   206. 

"    Thayer,  572. 

"    Burnham,    223. 

"    Munro,  582. 

"    Edwards,  246. 

Jane,  481. 

"    Harmon.    247. 

-lane 

"    Morrill.   249. 

m  Marston,  59. 

' '    Thompson,    253. 

• '    Mosher,  86. 

"    Fogg,  25 s. 

"    Tolman,  234. 

"    Heard,  269. 

"    McFarlane,   235. 

"    Sharp,   270. 

"    Clements,  268. 

"    Lord,  272. 

"    Goodwin,   269. 

"    Hoyt.  273. 

"    Wentworth,    271. 

' '    Fessenden,   273. 

"    Mines,  279. 

"    Fall,    274. 

"   Newell,   420. 

"    Pool,  279. 

"    Bradbury,   422. 

"    Lary,   284. 

"    Sweet,  530. 

"    Gilkey,   297. 

"    Bailev,  553. 

"    Allen',  320. 

Jared,  584. 

"    Johnson,   324. 

Jay,  570. 

"    Ball,  333. 

Jeannie,  512. 

"    Hanson,  333. 

Jefferson,    242,    251,    577, 

"    Thompson,  335. 

585: 

"    Tuttle,  336. 

Jeffrey,  564. 

"    Ricker,  353. 

Jemima,    256,   545. 

"    Pickering,    359., 

INDEX 


5S3 


m  Folsoni,  3G7. 

,  367. 

Smith,  374. 

Robinson,  376. 

,  387. 

Wiggin,  388. 

Murray,  393. 

Shibbles,   394. 

Harmon,  402. 

Fabyan,  415. 

Warren,  421. 

.Snow,  421. 

Moore,  430. 

Randall.  432. 

<  (wen,  432. 

Clark,  448. 

\\  atson,  457. 

Foster,  466. 

Lane,  471. 

Smith,  471. 

Lewis,  471. 

Morse,  472. 

Miller,  473. 

Mason,  475. 

Burr,  482. 

Steele,  497. 

Howard,  514. 

,  519. 

Walker,  519. 

,  520. 

Newell,  520. 

,  520. 

Moore,  533. 

Dean,  539. 

Stuart,  543. 

Chase,  557. 

Smith,  565. 

Gould,  565. 

Sewell,    584. 

Whitcomb,   584. 
lathan,  167,  356,  545, 
556. 
Joseph,    117,     126,     145, 
227,  268,  281,378,473, 
480,  555. 
Joseph 

Hobart,  128. 

McClain,  130. 

,  175. 

Bangs,  215. 

Pugsley,  239. 

,  239. 

Fluent,  294. 

Chadbourne,   295. 

Hasty,  297. 

Kelley,  299. 

Winn,  308. 

Roberts,  315. 

Twiss,  325. 

Wilkinson,   325. 

Manning,    377. 

Rand,  378. 

Elizabeth,   393. 

Emerv,  423. 

Lord,  429. 

,  429. 


Jon 


m  Weeks,    443. 

' '    Wiggin,  454. 

"   Hayden,  454. 

' '   Foster,  458. 

"    Miller,  460. 

"   Parmelee,  463. 

"    Mann,  473. 

' '   ,  488. 

"   ,  520. 

•  •    Willis,  521. 

' '   Belcher,  526. 

' '   Newcomb,  529. 

"    Butterfield,   531. 

"    Lincoln,  531. 

' '   Bliss,  543. 

' '    Hunt,  553. 

' '    Kilgore,  565. 
Josephine,  132,  147,223, 

334,  570,  581. 
Joshua,  126,  583. 
Joshua 

m  Weeks,  87. 

"   ,  91. 

"    Pond,  106. 

' '    Sherman,  126. 

"    Cook,  146. 

' '   Hicks,  155. 

"    Cox,  227. 

"   Hasty,  234. 

"   Abrams,  240. 

"   Hanson,  241. 

' '    Stout,  245. 

"    Redlon,  248. 

' '   Rand,  251. 

"    Libby,  345. 

"   Tibbets,  346. 

"   Pendleton,   349. 

' '   Garrity,  355. 

"    Whipple,    361. 

' '    Pickering,  367. 

"    Muloon,   371. 

"   McKenny,  377. 

' '   Parsons,  385. 

"   Janes,  388. 

"    Dame,  393. 

"    Batchelder,   395. 

"    Gednev,   402. 

"    Kendrick,  418. 

' '    Lord,  429. 

' '    Pickering,  446. 

' '    Weston,  583. 

"    Maclintic,    584. 
Josiah,     121,     214,     223, 

287,  501,  503,  536,  547, 

553. 
Jotham,  349. 
Judith,  214,  441. 
Julia,  151,  171,  298,  328, 

331,    426,  433,  475,  549, 

552.  560." 
Juliette,  354. 
Jurien,  522. 
Karl,  310,  342. 
Kate,  129,  473,  507.  511. 
Keziah,  71,  93,  122,  385, 

115,  417. 


Klaus,  206. 
Laban,  521. 
Laura,  146,  171,  270,  323, 

332,  376,  499,  553. 
Lawrence,  226. 
Leah,  224. 
Lemuel,    325,    488,    490, 

551. 
Lena,  237,  305. 
Lendal,  173. 
Leola,  281. 

Leon,  154,  155,  238,  288. 
Leona,  131. 
Leonard,    178,    205,    220, 

221,  224. 
Leonora,  454. 
Leroy,  155,  248,  306,  525. 
Leslie,  275,  485. 
Lester,  246,  565. 
Leston,  182,  429. 
Levi,  357,  561. 
Levi 

m  Cram,  199. 

"    Ritter,  222. 

' '   Rail,  224. 

"    Brandon,    225. 

"    Hall,  260. 

' '    Given,  275. 

' '    Hubbard,  349. 

"   Brown,  353. 

"   Haines,  390. 

"    Adams,  481. 

"    Schenck,  570. 

' '    Speed,  572. 
Lewis,  175,  418.  428,  482, 

489. 
Llewellyn,  178,  552. 
Libby,  261. 
Lila,  210. 
Lillian,     248,     251,     381, 

465,  516. 
Lillie,  173,  465,  516. 
Linnie,  428. 
Lionel,  166,  179. 
Lizzie,  129,  147,  175,  208, 

275,  402. 
Lloyd,  326,  575. 
Loanthe,  277. 
Lois,   140,  190,  268,  277, 

541. 
Lola,  239. 
Lora,  280. 
Loren,  522,  523. 
Lorenzo,  423. 
Loretta,  195,  404. 
Lorila,  561. 
Lottie,     130,     173,     225, 

474,  506. 
Louis,  155,  167,  270. 
Louisa,     196.     198.     2  is, 

295,  325,  424,  489,  530. 
Louise,     335,     346,     380, 

466. 
Love,  123,  489,  497. 
Luann,  556. 
Lucilla,  432. 


594 

Lucinda,    256,    287,    422. 

489,  520. 
Lucretia,  L48,  L68,  556. 
Lucy,  357,  517,  571. 
Lucy 

in  Eoward,  1-13. 
••    Wetherbee,  394. 
"   Albes,  395. 
"   Foster,   tl6. 
"   Harmon,  424. 
••    Priddy,  462. 
"   Knapp,  1:63. 
"   Beals,  501. 
"   Cowles,  50 1- 
"   Carr,  531. 
Luella,  3s2. 
Lulu.  581. 
Lura,  146. 
Luther.     330.     334,     356, 

357,  404,  506. 
Lydia,  429,  482,  488. 
Lvdia 
*ni  Porter,  150. 
"    Wills,   15  1. 
"    Mitchell,  220. 
"    Richardson,    223. 
"    Staples,  234. 
' '    Jones,  239. 
"    Lord,  268. 
' '    Goodwin,  268. 
"    Gory,  277. 
"    Stanton,  314. 
"    Hill.  316. 
"    Marshall,  321. 
"   Ayer,  368. 
"    Choate,  377. 
"    Evans,   377. 
"   Sceggel,  458. 
'  <    Morse,  461. 
"    Warren,  520. 
Lyman,  465.  475,  520. 
Lynn,  571. 
Mabel,  132,  156,  181,  211, 

355,  432,  498,  515. 
Madeline,  282. 
Mahlon,  474. 
Malan,    461. 
Mamie,  483. 
Mandy,   151. 
Manly,  282,  571. 
Marcia,  309,  352. 
.Marcus,  522. 
.Margaret,  126,  127,  165, 
172.  315,  324,  398,420, 
r,l  I. 
Maigaretta,   301. 
Maria,  498,  547,  553. 
Maria 

m   Stevens.  143. 
' '    Burgess,  173. 
"    Parsons,  192. 
"    Polleys,  211. 
"    Gay,  246 
"    Perry,  300. 
"    Sibley,  327. 
"    Fernald,  34s. 


INDEX 

in   Pindar,   349. 
"    Small.  377. 
"    Collins,  396. 
"    Cobb,  498. 
Marilla,  376,  523. 
Mariam,  187.  258. 
Marian,     280,    300,    302, 

330,  473,  507,  549. 
Marion,  211,  342. 
Marjorie,  431. 
Mark,  181,  268,  354. 
Marshall,  210,  211. 
Martha,    149,    276,    354, 

463,  472,  554. 
Martha 

m  Twelves.  117. 
"    Warren,  197. 
<<    Gay,  246. 
• '    Merrill,  249. 
"    Rogers.  258. 
"    Wood.  27n. 
"    Wentworth,  271. 
"    Parent,  333. 
"    Treadwell.    36/. 
"    Sanborn,  372. 
<  <    Rumney,  388. 
"    Knowlton,  394. 
"    French.  402. 
' '    Sanborn,  425. 
"    Chandler,  43d. 
"    Morse.  451. 
"    Tuttle.  457. 
"    French,  479. 
' '    Copeland,  490. 
"    Douse,  499. 
"    Nye,  565. 
Martin.     223,     231,     547, 

566,  576. 
Marv,  80,  86,  117,  120, 
123,  144,  245,  248,  281, 
284,  293,  308,332,343, 
371,  378,  390,395,454. 
463,  475,  488,500,514, 
532,  553,555,  561,572, 
583. 
Mary 

m   Witcher,  71. 
"   Mitchell,  75, 
"    Fabvan,  92. 
' '   Tuttle,  98. 
"    Woodsum.  101. 
' '    Willard,  108. 
"    Ward,  117. 
"    Spalding,  119. 
' '    Thompson,  119. 
' '    Jones,  125. 
< '    Hatch,  126. 
"    Hatch,  127. 
"    Newth,  12s. 
' '    Hodgkins,  135. 
"    McKenney,   144. 
"    Robertson,  152. 
' '    Fogg,  167. 
"    Hanson,  171. 
"    Shone,  174. 
"    Holder,  178. 


m  Bailey,    185. 
"   Barbour,  187. 
"   Crockett,  189. 
"    Brown,  196. 
' '    Grossman,  197. 
< <   Bailey,  204. 
"    Luce,' 208. 
"    Deering,  219. 
' '    Hogle,  220. 
"    Hobbie,  224. 
"    Bond.  230. 
"    Hines,  231. 
"    Ingalls,  234. 
"    Briggs,  236. 
' '    West,  238. 
"    Hamlin,   239. 
"    Buggies,  241. 
< '    Norton,  244. 
"    Holden,  246. 
' '    Pinkham.  256. 
"   Twombley,  258. 
"    Libbv,  270. 
"    Griffin,    271. 
"    Alvarez.  273. 
"    Gowan,  275. 
"    Tucker,  279. 
"    Adams,  282. 
"    Knox,  286. 
"    Davis.  286. 
"    Brown.  287. 
' '    Coffin,  292. 
"    Brown,  295. 
"    O'Brien,  296. 
"    Jepson,  299. 
' '    Dearborn,  300. 
"    Hurd.  315. 
"    Lamb,  319. 
"    Shaw.  321. 
' '   Smith,  323. 
"    McNear,  324. 
"    Miller.  325. 
"    Tasker.  326. 
' '    Whittier.  331. 
"    Lewis,  333. 
"    Morse,  334. 
"   La  Croix.  337. 
' '    Isensee,  339. 
'  <    Hurd,  345. 
"    Hutchins,  350. 
"    Pierce.  352. 
"    Caswell,  356. 
"    Joaquin,  356. 
"    Wiggin,  361. 
"    Pickering,  362. 
"    Vose,  370. 
"    Brown,  373. 
"    Pierce,  376. 
"   Twombly,  377. 
"    Hovt,  378. 
"   Phillips,  382. 
' '    Chapman,  385. 
"    Dearborn,  388. 
"    Philpot,  390. 
< '    Harding.  392. 
"   Fuller,   393. 
"    Marriner,  394. 


INDEX 


595 


m  Cole,  396. 

"   Holbrook,  396. 

' '    Norton,  404. 
"   Burbank,  416. 

"   Eeed,  417. 

"    Tracv,  419. 

"    Nash",  421. 

"   Welch,  422. 

"    Daniels.  424. 

"   Burnham,    425. 

"   Whitmore,  426. 

"    Thorn,  428. 

"    Putnam.  431. 

"   Wiggin,  441. 

"    Wright,  449. 

"   Brainard,  454. 

' '    Nichols,  457. 

' '    Atkinson,  458. 

"   Chase,  459. 

"    Ford,  461. 

"   Polland,  462. 

"    Durham.  464. 

"    Dole,  476. 

"    Hoit.  477. 

"    Robinson,  480. 

"    Smart,  484. 

' '    Woodward,  488. 

"    Lancaster,  497. 

"    Cook,  499. 

"   Jewett,  500. 

"    Goodsell,  501. 

"    Call,  505. 

"    Mygatt,  507. 

' '    Ormsby,  520. 

' '   Seagraves,  521. 

"    Nichols,  524. 

' '    Dooley,  525. 

"    Bass,  527. 

"    Nightengale,  528. 

' '    Adams,  529. 

"    Stetson,  536. 

"    Phipps,  539. 

"    Odiorne.  542. 

"    Dale,  543. 

' '    Frost,  546. 

"    Wilcox,  550. 

"   Huntley,  551. 

' '    Campbell,  553. 

"   Pierce,  553. 

' '   Patten,  555. 

"    Whitman.   556. 

' '    Sherman,  557. 

' '   Huggett,  567. 

"    Blood,  576. 
Matilda,  400,  448. 
Mattie,  382. 
Maud,  157.  276.  335,381, 

428,  430,  502,  506. 
Max,  243. 
May,  176,  251. 
Mehitable,  23S,  262,  292. 

293,  296,  372,  377,  418, 

527,  528. 
Melinda.  207,  198,  207. 
Melissa,  145. 
Melvin,  129,  153. 


Melville,  173,  425. 

Melvina,  246. 

Melzar,  335. 

Mercy,     229,     274,     292, 

547. 
Meribah,  415. 
Merrick,  522. 
Merton,  279. 
Mildred,  210. 
Mildreth,  281. 
Miles,  250,  257,  268. 
Milla,  307. 
Millicent,  520. 
Miltmore,  210. 
Mina.  334,  335,  340. 
Mindora,  195. 
Minerva,  210. 
Minnea,  433. 
Minnie,     282,     284,     341, 

401,  505,  533. 
Minora,  549. 
Miranda,  147,  196. 
Miriam,    155,    254,    280, 

488. 
Molly,  385,  504. 
Morgan,  584. 
Moses.  233,  258,  271,296, 

355,  488,  527. 
Myra,  261,  301. 
Myron,  338. 
Myrtia,  343. 

Nancy,  146,  147,  371,  547. 
Nancy 

m  Lewis,  127. 

' '    Noves,  169. 

"    Knight,  186. 

"    Bailev,  190. 

"    Whitney,  193. 

"   Patterson,   235. 

"    Chase,  323. 

' '    Avery,  324. 

"    Smart,  325. 

"    Manuel,  334. 

"    Burleigh,  367. 

"    White.  491. 
Naomi,  376,  456. 
Natalie,  211. 
Nathan.     151.    156,    237, 

257,  269,  281,  352.  r,Zr>, 

540. 
Nathaniel,  108.  117,  135, 

482. 
Nathaniel 

m  Wort  hie  v,    144. 

"   Mabry,  166. 

"   Humphrey,  197. 

"    Mitchell,* 222. 

"    McCausland,  2.5. 

"    ,  276. 

"   Chadbourne,  293. 

•'    Weymouth,   205. 

"    Richer.  205. 

"   Foss,  300. 

'•    Easty,  301. 

"   Lewis,  11  v 

"    March,  477. 


m  Elizabeth,    479. 

"    Turner,  482. 

"    Wilder,  505. 
Nellie,  181,  243,  335,  430, 

570,  579. 
Nellie 

m  Little,  130. 

"    Brown,  175. 

"    Much,  207. 

"   Haley,  250. 

"    Smith,  356. 

"    Allen,  404. 
Nelson,  254,  545. 
Nettie,  288. 
Newell,  489. 
Newton,  516. 
Olive,  132,  146,  174,  189, 

251,  260,    303,  326,  405, 

557. 
Oliver,  208,  299. 
Ona,  221. 
Ophelia,- 233. 
Orestes.  149. 
Orlando,  155,  252. 
Orran,  4  29. 

Orrin,  147,  174,  283,  381. 
Orris,  224. 
Orrington,  130. 
Orson,  222. 
Orville,  582. 
Oscar.  131,  343,  397,  398, 

430. 
Osgood,  458. 
Owen,  210. 
Ozro,  463. 
Parmelia,  175,  349. 
Patience,   313,   318,   418, 

419. 
Paul,  288,  310,  507,510. 
Paulina,  554. 
Pauline,  277,  310,  353. 
Peel,  181. 
Per.cy,  284,  525. 
Perry,  570. 
Persis,  461,  462. 
Peter,  116,  117,  118,195, 

196,  522.  529,  530. 
Phebe,  123,  267,  293.  294. 
Philip,  211,  310,  497. 
Prince,  524. 
Priscilla,    117,    288,    372. 

518. 
Philaney,  522. 
Philena,  524. 
Phillips,  283. 
Philo,  561. 
Phoebe,     130,     271,     272, 

205.  296. 
Phyllis,  342.  511. 
Pluma,  27o. 
Polly,  142.  160,  542. 
Prescott,  281. 
Pro  Lucius  D.j  5S3. 
Prudence,  ill. 
Purney,  368. 
Quincy,  497. 


596 


INDEX 


Rachel,     119,     14S.     244. 

529. 
Bae,  561 . 
Ralph,  283,  308,  334,382, 

383,  482,  510. 
Banda,  243. 
Ransom,  574. 
Ray,  381. 
Raymond,  131,  150,  246, 

355,  406. 
Rebecca,    288,    539,    542, 

549,  552,  553,  554,  559. 
Reuben.    164,    166,    172, 

222,  286,  294,  298,  308, 

488,  555,  575. 
Richard,    US,    224,    238, 

516,  518,  527,  578. 
Robert,     130,     156,     181, 

239,  246,  247,  252,461, 

508,  518,  573. 
Roderick,  151. 
Rodney,  355. 
Roger,  46U,  504. 
Rooksby,  374. 
Rosanna,  553. 
Rosco.  375. 
Rose,  181. 
Ross,  334,  517. 
Rouena,  206. 
Roxanna,   191,   278,   377, 

467. 
Roxilanv,  521. 
Rov,   243.   248,  252,   276, 

307,  514. 
Rubie,  434. 
Ruby,  246. 
Ruey,  151. 

Bufus,  223.  351,  429,  506. 
Russell,  349.  355,  398. 
Ruth,  117,  143,  181,  224, 

248,  250,  308,  39S,  475, 

505,  557. 
Sabra,  395,  545. 
Sabrina,  389,  394. 
Saloma,  295. 
Samuel.     143.     144,     206, 

225,  392,  400,  519. 
Samuel 

m  Botts,  94. 

' '    Emery,  99. 

<<   223. 

"   Dow',  123. 

"   ,  149. 

"   Russell,  172. 

"    Smith,  193. 

"    Scribner,  210. 

<  <   23q_ 

' '  Bartman,  237. 

"  Foss,  241. 

"  Jackson.  246. 

' '  Libby,  249. 

"  Burg,  250. 

' '  Brown,  267. 

■  ■  Shaw,  276. 

' '  Hooper,  286. 

' '  Luce,  288. 


m  Ricker,   290. 

Wentworth,  294. 

Munson,  297. 

Webster,  337. 

,  384. 

Dow,  386. 

Cobb,  392. 

Hanson,  395. 

Brown,  400. 

Adams,  401. 

Gressy,  427.- 

Hanson,  428. 

Greenwood,  487. 

,  488. 

Bullard,  489. 

Fairbanks,  500. 

Smith,  500. 

Chaffin,  505. 

Stone,  506. 

Bobbins,  513. 

Stearns,  519. 

Clapp,  519. 

Gomary,  536. 

Hayward,  543. 

Leonard,  545. 

Wiggin,  554. 

Sterling,  554. 

Palmer,  555. 

Stetson,  556. 

Callender,  563. 
Sarah,  117.  119,  121,  147, 
198,  208',  231,269,286, 
295,  334/357,393,488,  ) 
512,  547,  554,  555,  574. 
Sarah 

m  Proctor,  71. 
' '   Hill,  75. 
"   Sawyer,  85. 
' '   Libby,  101. 
' '   Adams,  120.   ' 
"    Crosby,  121. 
"   Field,  13.5. 
"   Jacobs,  143. 
' '    Smith,  145. 
"   Costello,  146. 
"    Thombs,  166. 
' '    Mason,  167. 
"   McCann,  178. 
' '   Payne,  178. 
"   Hoper,  186. 
"    Gammon,  204. 
"   Stevens,  214. 
' '    Simon,  258. 
' '   Langley,  259. 
"   Keays,  260. 
' '    Waterman,  276. 
' '   Sweeney,  276. 
' '    Keniston,  278. 
' '   Luce,  286. 
"   Low,  290. 
"    McCusick,   297. 
"   Mason,  317. 
"    Carr,  319. 
"   Felch,  346. 
■•    Willev,  347. 
' '    Merrill,  348. 


Major,    353. 

McDuffy,  367. 

Cheswell,  386. 

Rhodes,  389. 

Humphrey,  397. 

Smith,  399. 

Snow,  400. 

Fabyan,  414. 

Quimby,  416. 

Fabvan,  417. 

Fogg,  418. 

Smith,  422. 

Paine,  424. 

Whitney,  426. 

Trefethen,    426. 

Emerson,  428. 

Watson,  446. 

Trafton,  448. 

Abbott,  458. 

Bowers,  459. 

White,  463. 

Woodman,  490. 

White,  491. 

Damon,  492. 

Lovejoy,  497. 

Arnold,  498. 

Rowan,  505. 

,  522. 

Gardener,  523. 

Goff,  524. 

Belcher,  527. 
•  •    Nightingale,  528. 

Hayward,  537. 

Butler,  546. 

Richardson,    552. 

Merrill,  552. 

Brown,  553. 

Parker,  554. 

Hasting,  556. 

Matson,  559. 

Garvin,  563. 

Leavit,  565. 
Scott,  342. 
Serena,  188. 
beth,  69,  71,  75,  193,  334, 

430,  431. 
Sewall,     198,     221.     500, 

513,  517. 
Seward,  473. 
Shadrack,  480. 
Sheldon,  278. 
Sherman,  226. 
Shirley,  356. 
Sibvl,  167,  269. 
Sidnev,  343,  507,  522. 
Silas, "'176,  203,  274. 
Silence,  262. 
Simeon,    192,    349. 

380,  387. 
Solomon,  245,  515. 
Solon,  173,  225. 
Sophia,     189,     269,     319, 

348,  452,  458,  491. 
Sophronia,  169,  349,  400, 

401,  546. 
Stella,  352. 


INDEX 


59i 


Stephen,    147.    172.    521, 

522. 
Susan,  156,  238.  268,  283, 

302,  488,  535. 
Susan 

m  Kennev,  189. 

"    Pollers,  241. 

"    Bradburv,  259. 

"    Haves.  267. 

"    Staples.  268. 

"   Wood.  270. 

"   Brown.  273. 

"    Bingham,  288. 

"    Pierce,  326. 

"    Dowling.  342. 

"   Stevens.  348. 

"    Pillsburv.  357. 

"    Ira.  349.' 
Sylvanus,  380. 
Sylvester,  151,  489. 
Tabitha,  227.  231.  233. 
Theodore,  497.  518,  575. 
Thomas.    122.    126.    181, 

186,  197.  215.  233,235. 

334,  343.  344,  429,  471, 

582. 
Thomas 

m  Mitton,  72. 

"    Sproul.  124. 

"    Giddings,  126. 

"    Gadshall.  126. 

"    McFarland.  129. 

"    Danforth.  154. 

"    Snow,  183. 

"    Cobb,  194. 

"   ,  218. 

"    Bovnton.    239. 

"    Hartford.  326. 

' '    Montgomery,    342. 

' '    Robinson,    361. 

"    Pickering.    369. 

••    Yeasy.  459. 

"   Folsom,  477. 

"   Jones,  479. 

' '    Furber,  481. 

"   Walden,   483. 

"   Robinson.  506. 

"    Tufts.   553. 

' '   Sylvester,  561. 

"    Nostand,  583. 

"    Brown.  5S3. 

"    Holt,  585. 
Timothy.  300. 
Tracy,  358. 
Trueworthy.  287. 
Truman,    156.    559.    560, 

572. 
Tyng 

('ramus,  380. 
.Varney,  342. 
Yelma,  ISO. 


Yelzora.  176. 
Yera,  567.  574. 
Vernon,  460. 
Victoria,  375. 
Yina.  382. 
Yiola,  156. 
Virgil,  181. 
Virginia,  282,  571. 
Wade,  376. 

W ,  154. 

Walker,  169,  176. 
Wallace.  152.  511. 
Walter,     152.    181,    280, 

307.  401.  579. 
Walter 

m  Lamb,  151. 

"    Coffin,  207. 

"   ,  284. 

"    Loring.  305. 

"    Starkey,  309. 

' '    Burrows,  404. 

"    Bland.  531. 
Warren.  401,  405. 
Wayne,  224.' 
Wealth  v.  151. 
Welcome,  222. 
Wellie.  308. 
Wilbur,  130. 
Wilder.  433. 
Wilfred,  431. 
Wilford.  504. 
Willard,    205,    211,    301, 

510. 
William,     47.     144,     147, 

150,  179.  180,182,209, 

252,  268',  277,  289.  308, 

333,  342,  381,  383U75. 

513,  517,  553.555,559, 

568,  582.  585.' 
William 

m  Bowlv.  127. 

"    Palmer.  129. 

"   Blaisdell,  129. 

"    Sennott,  149. 

"    Morse.  166. 

"   Hobbs.  167. 

"   Wardell,   170. 

"    Bowker,  171. 

"   Eandall,  206. 

"    Guilford.  206. 

"   Mahew.  220. 

"    Snow,  225. 

"   Lee,  243. 

"    Moody,  247. 

"   Donahue,  252. 

"    Wentworth.    277. 

"    Strout,  280! 

"   Krause,  283. 

"   Porter,  303. 

"   Moon,  308. 

' '    Smith,  332. 

"    Thompson,  340. 


m  Brvant,  342. 

"   Sbryer,  344. 

"    Hersom,  348. 

"    Folsom,  367. 

"   .  371. 

"    Berry,  373. 

"    Rochemont,    378. 

' '    Knowles,   404. 

"    Green,  420. 

"   Prescott,   431. 

"   Preble,  432. 

"    Brightham,   433. 

"    Horton,  454. 

"    Strout,  460. 

' '    Partridge,  466. 

' '    Morey,  471. 

"   Ballance,  474. 

"    Sanford.  475. 

"   Hancock,  489. 

' '    Lauchlen,    491. 

' '   Campbell,  499. 

' '    Snow,  505. 

"    Crittenden,   505. 

"    Fish,  512. 

' '    Stearns,  516. 

"   Pope,  532. 

'  <   Funcke,  533. 

' '    Mercy,  538. 

"   Ward,  554. 

"    Teller,  559. 

' '    Skimmings.  561. 

"   Rice,  563. 

' '   Hoar.  563. 

' '    Xickerson,    565. 

' '    Larkins,  56S. 

' '    Sherman,  569. 

' '    Sherman,  570. 

"   Andrews,  571. 

"    Xeff.  574. 

"    Standish,  584. 

"    Fish.  584. 

' '    Brbwnlee,  584. 

"    McMurray,    584. 

"    Moss,  585. 
Willis,  430. 
Wilmer.  404. 
Winfred,  204.  513. 
Winslow,  331. 
Winthrop,  433,  512. 
Zachariah,  70,  71. 
Zachariah 

m  Ross,  81. 

"   Sawyer,  212. 

"   Cleaves.  197. 

"   Read,  220. 

"    Lunt.  237. 
Zara.  400. 
Zebulon,  249. 
Zemro,  334. 
Zipporah,  71. 
Zoie.  577. 


INDEX 

OF  NAMES  OF  PEOPLE  OTHER  THAN  BRACKETT 


Abbott,  95,  98,  101,  139, 
255,  274,  326,  335,  434. 
Abrams,    240. 
Adams,     320,     379,     422. 

522. 
Adams 

m   Sarah.    120. 
"    Eunice,   155. 
••    Mary,    282. 
"    Samuel.    401. 
"    Dora.    404. 
' '    Leonard,    424. 
"    Levi.    481. 
"    Susan.    4 1 » -3 . 
"    Love,    407. 
••    Mary.   529. 
"   James,    563. 
Aiken,    143. 
Akers,  85.  232. 
Alb,  424. 
Albes,   395. 
Albright,   560. 
Alexander,   4o7. 
A 1  ford,  318. 

Allen,  210.  249,  258,  260. 
295,  296,  32H.  328,  379, 
t04,  522. 
Allendorf,   222. 
Allward.   358. 
Ambrose,    424. 
Ames.     333. 

Anderson,  156,  196.   238. 
Andrews,     <  1.    135.    256, 

330,  57  1. 
Angus,   192. 
Annas,    175. 
Applebee,  347. 
Armington,    476. 
Arnold,     17  7.     368,    483, 

498,   539. 
Arington,    224. 
Arris.    148. 
Atkinson.    458. 
Atwell,   283. 
Aubens,  204. 
Austin.    171.   255.   560. 
Averill,   381. 
Avery,  143. 
Aver,  309,  368. 
Ayres,    Ml.  530. 
Babb,   187,   326. 
Babbitt,  517. 


Babcock,   193,   206. 

Bachtel,  068. 

Bacon,  491,  493. 

Badlam.   513. 

Baeth.  581. 

Balmier,  556. 

Bagg.   461. 

Bagnal,   190. 

Baker.  86,  100,  249,  29'). 

452. 
Bailey,     127.     1S9,     295, 

302,  457,  499,  553. 
Bailey 

m  George,    174. 
•■    .Mary.    185. 
"    Charlotte,    187. 
"   Nancy,   190. 
•'    Abba,    191. 
'•    Mary,   204. 
"   Beuben,  308. 
Balcli.  564. 
BallaiK-e,   475. 
Bancroft,  415. 
Banfield,    100. 
Bangs.  216. 
Barber,    307,    575. 
Barbour,    187.   233. 
Barker.     168,     273,     285, 

296.  463.  511. 
Barnard,  505. 
Barnes.   191,   319. 
Barnum,   501. 
Barr.  127. 
Barrell,  380. 
Barrett.  221.  493. 
Barsham,   321. 
Barstow,   127. 
Barter,    144. 
Bartlett,     92,     171,     2,4. 

521,  557. 
Bartman.   237. 
Barton,  55,  197,  564. 
Bass.    118,  527.  528,  53s. 

546. 
Bassett,   70,  461. 
Batchelder,  395.421.  511. 
Bates,  129.  141.  241.  270, 

521.  549. 
Batman.    452. 
Baxter.     120.     451,     497, 

539. 
Beach,  198. 


Beal.  119.  2S2,  319,  357. 

527.  536. 
Beals,   501. 

Bean,  142.  167.  188,  208. 
Bean 

m  Thomas,    154. 

' '    James,    155. 

■•    Melvina,    246. 

"   Daniel,   280. 

•'    Mehitable,    296. 

"    David.    298. 
Beatty.    237.  _ 
Beauvais,    327. 
Beauer.   225. 
Beck.   204. 
Beede.   305. 
Beedy,  139. 
Beers.    156. 
Belcher,     121,    519,    520. 

52 8,  537.  549. 
Belles.    179. 
Belser,  571. 
Bemis.    429.   546. 
Bennett.    107,    174.    234. 

286,  367,  368,  374. 
Benson,  338. 
Bentley,   488. 
Bere.    241. 

Berry,  123,  147,185,189, 
192.  197.  238,  279,  373. 
Bertram.  543. 
Betts,  557,  569. 
Biather,  321. 

Bickerstaffe,  524. 

Bickershed,    527. 

Bickford,  256,  447. 

Bigelow.   150. 

Hillings,  189,  523. 

Billman,  316. 

Bingham,   2s8. 

Bird,  497. 

Bisbee.   237.  473. 

Bishop,  204,  209. 

Blackamore,   523. 

Blaekstone.   190.   403. 

Blackwell,   146. 

Blaisdell,  129,  165,  376. 

Blake,  71.  101,  538. 

Blanchard.  118,  119. 

Bland.  531. 

Bliss,  553. 

Blodgette,  338,  522. 


INDEX 


599 


1:1 1.  576. 

}:iunt.  198. 
Boardman,  452,  510. 
Bodge,  ::17.  420. 
Bodwell,  270,  355. 
Boles,  534. 
Hull,'-.  568. 
Bond,  230,  576. 
Bonney,    L92,  500. 
Boody,  240. 
Boothby,  291. 
Bostwick,  5  11. 
Bbsworth,   119,   291. 
Botts,  94. 
Bowditch,  527. 
Bowdon,    !!»::. 
Bowen,  :'.'i  I.   567. 
Bowers,  459. 
I ;  .\\  ker,   171. 
Bowley,   1-7. 
Bowman,  283. 

.    L25. 
Boynton,  239,  31s.  424. 
Bradbury,  259. 
Bradeen,  233,  248. 
Bradford,  354,  .-.42. 
Bradley,  405,  576. 
Bragdon,  315. 
Brainard,  454. 
Braley,   431. 
Bramen,  323,  342. 
Bramhall,   70,  424. 
Brannan,   324. 
Brat,  2^4. 
Bray,  85,  329. 
Brayton,  557. 
Brazier,  271. 
Breck,  516. 
Breen,   356. 
Bremner,   320. 
Brenizer,  483. 
Brewer,   324. 
Briar,  389. 
Bride,    280. 
Bridge,  542,  564. 
Bridges,  177,  195,  546. 
Briggs,     236,     273.     470, 

506. 
Brightman.   433. 
Brimblecorn,  401. 
Bristow,    242. 
Brittain,  307. 
Broekett,  5. 
Bronson,  148,  235. 
Brooks,   324. 
Brown.     142.     189.     256, 

267,  377.  507,  516,  517. 

562. 
Brown 

m   Nellie,    175. 

"    Mary,    196. 

"    Benjamin.     207. 

"    Eebecca,    288. 

"    Mary,    288. 

"       "         295. 

"   James,   329. 


m  Levi,  353. 

"    Pauline,    353. 

•■    Mary,  373. 

"    Delicia,  377. 

"    George,    395. 

"    William.    400. 

"   Almeria,    400. 

' "    Augustus.    402. 

••    Addie,  403. 

"    Prank,   409. 

"    Franklin,  513. 

41    Ambrose,  531. 

"    Ernest.  532. 

"    Sarah,    553. 

"    Henry,  560. 

' '    Vera,    507. 

"  Cora,  575. 
Brownlee,  584. 
Bryant,     155,     195.     174, 

316,  342,  584. 
Bubier,  128,  145,  390. 
Buck,    L89,  2ns.  352,355. 
Bueknam.   223,  421.   424. 
Bugber,  551. 
Bullard,  489. 
Bumpass,    402. 
Bunting,   277. 
Bunton,  382. 
Pun-bank.  317,  416,  40  I. 
Burekle,   571. 
Burdick,   515. 
Burg.  250. 

Burgess,  107,  173,  549. 
Burke,  510. 
Burleigh,   367,   386. 
Burnham,   176,   189,   425. 
Burns,  128. 
Burr,   482. 
Burridge,    572. 
Burrill,  272,  324,  52s. 
Burrows,    4u4. 
Burt,   527. 
Burton,    208. 
Bushen,  422. 
Buswell,    424. 
Butler,     270,     328,     515. 

525,  546,  565. 
Butterfield,      138,      321, 

514,  531. 
Buxton,  208. 
Buzzell,  325,  352. 
Bvington,   574. 
Byrons,  334. 
Bvrne,  572. 
Cadworth,    348. 
Calby,    128. 
Calden,    144. 
Caldwell,  239,  243. 
Calies,  320. 
Calkins,  241,  570. 
Call,  505. 
Callender,  563. 
Callev,   116. 
Calligan,  182. 
Camp,   289. 
Campbell,  286,  374,    100. 


Canfield,  381. 

Canney,    553,    262,    326, 

335. 
Capner,  573. 
Card,  191. 

Carll,  240,   251,  318. 
Carlton,  393. 
Carpenter,  521,  536,  549. 
Carr,  222,  319,  531,  552. 
Carrick,  301. 
Carrosso,  525. 

<  'arson,  327. 

Carter,  150,291,316,434. 
Cartland,  259. 
( !ary,  455,  538. 
Cass,  100. 
Cassidv,  242. 
Caswell,  169,  356,  407. 
Cate,  440. 
Caverly,  543. 
Chadbourne,      240,      255. 

257,  285,  293,  295,  297, 

302,  357. 
Chaffee,  523. 
Chaffm,  505. 
Chamberlain,     351,     368, 

398,  512,  523. 
Chandler,   208,   281,   430. 
Chaney, 
Chapin,  567. 
Chapman,   157,   291,   308, 

318,  377,  385,  389. 
Chase,  208,  276,  283,  323, 

459,  546,  557. 
Cheslev,  166. 
Cheswell,  386. 
Chichester,   141. 
Chick,   318. 
Chicken,  106. 
Chickering,  118,  141. 
Child,  554,  561. 
Childs,  493. 
Chilson,  453. 
Choate,  377. 

<  'hrittenden,    505. 
Chubb,  194. 
Church,  66,  75. 
Churchill,  130,  479. 
Clapper,  205. 

Clark,  141,  180,  220,  376, 

424,  505. 
Clark 

m  Kezia,  93. 

"   Elizabeth,   240. 

"    Harriet,  240. 

"    George,  246. 

"   Joseph,    295. 

"        "  299. 

"   Harriet,  325. 

"    Cora,  381. 

' '    Ebenezer,  444. 

' '    John,  448. 

"    Sophia,  452. 

"   Edgar,  567. 
Clay,  287. 
Cleaves,  92,  147,  197. 


600 


INDEX 


fli'ini-nts.    20n,   267,   268, 

278,  279. 
Clifford,  280,  296. 
Clinch.  319. 
Close,  243. 

<  lloudman,  425. 
Clough,  271. 
Clugston,  276. 

Cobb,  168,  172,  186,  190, 

li>4.  220,  221,  300,  392, 

5  5  7 . 
Coburn.  170,  393. 
Coffey,  230. 
Coffin,  207. 
Cojf.  319. 
CoggeshaU,  473. 
Coggswcll,  403.  554. 
Cohern,  430. 
Colburn,  389. 
Colby,  421. 
Cole.   17".   295,  396,  400, 

434. 
I  loleman,  558. 
c  .ley,  221,   198. 
Colley,  190,  231,  336. 
Collins,  60,  1  1".  153.  396, 

407,  543. 

<  lonant,  149. 
Condor,  570. 
Condrey,  504. 
Conley,  417. 
Connell,  235,  548. 
Cooley,  399,  457. 
Coolidge,   15:;.  494. 
Cook,  117,  141,  146,  222. 

246,  269,  276,  281,297, 
298,   t08,   i::i.  499.  504. 

Copeland,  490. 

Copp,  155,  309. 

Corbett,  224. 

Corby,    1:03. 

I  lorliss,  577. 

'  lorson,  375. 

I  lorwell,  292. 

Cory,  277. 

Costello,   1  16. 
fcdaw,   171. 

<  loughlin,  171. 

<  lourteney,  25  1. 
Covell,  148. 
Cowell,  222.  375. 
Cowles,  5()4. 
Cox,  71.  22  7. 

I  oy,  222. 

Craig,  174,  319,  433,  516. 
Cram,  199,  303,  333. 
Crane.  399,  527. 
Crawford,  458. 
Creighton,  442. 
Cressey,  427. 
Crockett,  189,  256. 
Crommett.  316. 
Crosbv,     119,     121,     146, 

-':,.  273.  404. 
Crossman,  197. 
Crowfoot,  408. 


Crowhurst,  335. 

Culbertson,  452. 

Cummings,  118,  286,  538. 

Cummock.  255. 

( lunningham,  555. 

Cure,  573. 

Currier.  261,  44S. 

Curtain,  152. 

Curtis,  358,  488. 

Cashing,  503. 

Custer.  532. 

Cutting,  493. 

Cutts.  361,  380. 

Dadley,  496. 

Daggett.  155.  356. 

Dale,  177.  543. 

Dalton,  352. 

Dame,  393.  512. 

Damon.    324.    352.     492. 

531. 
Dania,  221. 
Danforth,  154. 
Daniels,  424. 
Dann.  ~>~>^. 
Darling,  524. 
Darst,  176. 
Darv.  525. 
Davenport,  139. 
Davignon.  323. 
Davis.  104,  165.  272.  373. 
Davis 

m  Benjamin,  Ins. 

"    Margaret,  127. 

"    Albert.  129. 

"    George.  129. 

"    Dana,  173. 

"    Gertrude.  282. 

"    Minnie.  282. 

•■    Alary.  286. 

"   Timothy,  300. 

"   Arthur."  307. 

' '    Sophronia,  400. 

"    William,  406. 

"   Edward  I.,  420. 

"   Benjamin.  44  8. 

"    Edward  Q.,  497. 
Davisson,  381. 
Day,   129.   167.   174,  260, 

329.  428. 
Dean,  539. 
Dear.  105. 
Dearborn,  268,  300,  349, 

362,  388.  459. 
Deering.  219.  245.  542. 
De  Forrest.  548. 
Delanev,  570. 
Delgado.  273. 
I  tempster,  243. 
Dennett.  92,  188,  292. 
Dennison.  202,  494. 
Denton,  537. 
Des  Boches.  286. 
Devenport,  346. 
Devereaux.  474. 
De  Vol,  241. 
Dewing,  306. 


Dexter,  270. 
Dickson.  465. 
Dickenson,  250. 
Dickerson,  494. 
Dickey,  382,  452. 
Diggles,  563. 
Dili,  141,  151,  192. 
Dillingham,  417. 
Dillowav,  389. 
Dingly,  193. 
Dinsmore.  149. 
Dipple,  344. 
Ditmars,  180. 
Ditson,  530. 
Dixon.  280. 
Doane.  405.  546. 
Dockum.  402. 
Dodd.  536.- 
Doe,  322.  362. 
Doldt.  427. 
Dole,  129,  476. 
Dolliver.  333. 
Dolson,  560. 
Dolloff.  206. 
Donahue.  252. 
Donelson,  281. 
Doolev,  525. 
Dore,  257,  345. 
Dorval,  532. 
Doubledav.  222. 
Doughty,  190,  250. 
Douglass,   236,   243,   301, 

445. 
Douse.  499. 
Dow,  123.  130,  442. 
Dowling,  342. 
Dowman,  321. 
Downing.  404. 
Drake.  70,  352,  373,  524. 
Draper.  127.  201. 
Dreggs.  450. 
Dresser,  139. 
Drew,  441.  442. 
Drinkwater.  165.  376. 
Drowne.  102,  367. 
Dudley.  280,  374. 
Duncan.  156. 
Dunlap.  333. 

Dunn.  168.  325,  420.  483. 
Dunning,   203,   546. 
Durant,  407* 
Diirell,  367.  379. 
Durgin,  428. 
Durham.  464. 
Dustin,  385. 
Dutton.  275.  324. 
Dver.  174. 
Earll.  567. 
Eastman.    188.    270,   387, 

464,  480. 
Eaton,  317,  487,  493. 
Eddv,  523. 

Edgecomb.  195.  351.  394. 
Edmonds,  403,  502. 
Edwards.  173.  246,  325. 
Eggleston.  408. 


INDEX 


(301 


Eiseman,  338. 

Elbridge,  375. 

Elder,  176. 

Elden,  297. 

Eldrige,  375. 

Eldridge,  554,  556. 

Ellenwood,  203. 

Ellis,  118,  140.  146,  151, 

226,  401,  504.  573. 
Ellingwood,  393. 
Elms,  532. 
Elwell.  197,  216. 
Ely.  455. 
Emerk,  270. 
Emerson,  147,  428. 
Emery,  95.  96.  100,  255, 

292,  373,  375.  423,  434. 
Emmons,  170. 
Ensworth,  338. 
Estabrook,  191. 
Estes,  146.  255.  309. 
Esty,  322. 

Evans,  204,  239,  347. 
Everett,  313. 
Fabyan,  92.  282.414.416, 

418. 
Fairbanks,  500. 
Fairfield,  260,  322,  483. 
Falion,  277. 
Fall,  255,  274. 
Fallev.   153. 
Farcy.  533. 
Fargo.    576. 
Farnham.  2m..  431. 
Farnsworth.  537. 
Faulkner.   2  18. 
Fawcett,  358. 
Faxon,  L20. 
Fa  v.  131. 
Felch,  346. 
Fellows,  393.  403. 

.  332. 
Fenderson,  300. 
Ferguson,  483,  501. 
Fernald,    255,    258.    207. 

269,  299.  348. 
Fessenden,  273. 
Fick.  249. 
Fickett.  238,  460. 
Field.  135,  203,  204,  298, 

553. 
Fifield.  391. 
Files,  247. 
Fischer.  571. 
Fish,  512. 

Fisher.  235.  241.  424. 
Fisk.  404.  542. 
Fitch.  453. 
Fite,  574. 
Fitz.  174. 
Fitzgerald,  510. 
Flagg,  198. 
Fletcher.  342,  396. 
Flint,  575. 
Flood.  249,  402. 
Flower,  "59. 


Fluent,  294. 
Fluewelling,  578. 
Foard,  340. 
Fogg.  167.  239,  258,  300, 

316,  326,  368,  418. 
Foley,  108,  242. 
Folger,  305. 
Folsom,  92.  349,  351,  367, 

478. 
Foote,  357. 
Forbes,  192. 

Ford,  239,  356,  461,  556. 
Forem,  271.  561. 
Forrest,  300. 
Forsyth,  152. 
FossI  123,  207.  241.   247. 

300. 
Foster,  119,  192,  458,466, 

504,  507, 
Fox.  206,  407.  566. 
Fowler,  332,  407,  458. 
Foye,  501. 
Franklin,  46. 
Frasier.  376, 
Fr«  athy,  282,  321. 
Frederick,  131. 
Freeman,   148,   216.   222, 

240. 
French,    118,    119,    189, 

300,  335,  402,  458,  170. 
Frost.  73.  79,86,180.  247, 

2!s.  253,  301.  316.  377, 

546. 
Frul mi.  320. 
Frye,  301,  348.  499. 
Frver,  55s. 
Fuller.  107.  173,  393. 
Fullerton,  386,  523. 
Fullington,  221. 
Funeke,  532. 
Furber,  181. 
Furlong,  172.  351. 
Gabrille,  306. 
Gadshall,  126. 

.  247. 
Galusha,  281,  401. 
Gamble.  452. 
Gammage,  180. 
Gammon.  246. 
Gardner.    332,    357,    419. 

513.  523. 
Garfield,  40  4. 
Garland.    117,    292.    317. 

374.  421. 
Garrity,  355. 
Garvin,  270,  355.  563. 
Gary,  260. 
Gatchell.  195. 
Gates,  433. 
Gault,  291. 

Gav,   246,  490,  497,   519. 
Gednev,  403. 
Gee,  206. 
George,  277. 
Gerald,  280. 
Gerard.  276. 


Gerish,  440. 
Getchell,  319,  419. 
Geulaw,  247. 
Giddings,  126. 
Gifford.  129. 
Gile.  145. 
Giles,  401. 
(iilkrv.  297. 
Oilman.  149.  155,  173. 
Gilpatrick,  293. 
Givin,  275. 
Glazier.  512. 
Gleason.  206,  525. 
Glenn.    141. 
Glidden.  353,  527. 
Glynn,  263. 

<  robel,  576. 

Goddard,  295,  298,  419. 
Godding,  271. 
Godfrey,  342,  357. 
Goding,  281. 

Gold.  531. 
Golder,  550. 
Goldwaite,  147.  496. 
Gomary,  536. 

( ; iale,  276. 

Gooch.  290,  297. 
Goodell,  376,  406,  522. 
Goodhue,  498. 
G Ling,  160. 

<  l-oodnow,  223. 
( Isell,  501.- 

G Lwin,    167,    20s.    269, 

27  1.  285,  348,  349,  356, 

445.  54  7. 
(lord. .n.  250. 

Goss,  261,  it  I.  507.  ^VO  L 
Gould,  230,  505. 
Gove,  241. 
Gowen.  253,  260,  274,  275. 

270. 
Gower,   257. 
Gowing,  27^.  561. 
Grafburn,  172. 
Craft  on.  189. 
Graham,  78,  419. 
Grant.  90.  105.   219,   278, 

321.  350,  354,  376. 
Granville.    457. 
Grav.  165,  424.  480. 
Green,  92,  160,  239.  287, 

400,  528,  548. 
Greenleaf,    157,    392. 
Greenwood,  4s7.  497. 
Gregorv.  150. 
Griggs."  331. 
Gridlev.  298. 
Griffin,    250.    271,    453. 
Grout,  368. 
Grove,  94. 
Grover,  429. 
Grow,  375. 
Gulliver,  334, 
Gupliff,  356. 
Guyette,  389. 
Hacker,  504. 


/ 


602 


INDEX 


Hackett,    172,    176,    191, 

193. 
Kadlev,  511. 
Hadlock,  245,  123,  426. 
Haney,  375. 

t.  92,  418. 
Haines,  59,  91,  39  i,    122, 

441. 
Hale,  279,  494. 
Halev,  137,  140,  195,  250, 

.  180. 
Hall,    7".    221,    226,    251, 

282. 
Hall 

pi   Parmelee,  I  75. 

•  •     Miriam.  254. 
■-   Levi,  260. 

•  •    Samuel,  267. 
■■    Thomas,  417. 

•  •    Isaiah,  507. 
••    Hat  tic  .514. 

•  •    Lewis,  530. 

•  ■    ( reorge,  533. 

•■    Elizabeth,  538. 

■•    George,    568. 
Hallv.  559. 
Ham.  234. 
Hamblen.  417. 
Hamilton,  285,  292.  357, 

473. 
Hamlin,  141.  239. 
Hammond,  205,  260,  572. 
Hanchett,    450. 
Hancock,  489. 
Hanna,  129. 
Hanscom,  117.  261,  101. 
Hanson,    171.    188,    236. 

241.  259,  297,  326,  333. 
•    395,  128. 

Hapsg I.  173. 

Harding,  220,  310.  392. 
Hardt.  397. 
Hardwick,  530,  538. 
Hardy,   277.  302. 
Hare,  141. 
Harford.  385. 
I  [argreaves,  375. 
Harmer,  247. 
Harmon.    247,    402,     118, 

120,  424.  432. 
Harris,  1  1".  is;.  406,495, 

516,  553. 
Harrison.  245. 
Hartford,  326. 
Hartley,  327. 
Hart uii-.   224. 
Harvey,    16,  72.  270,  276. 
Hartwell,  356. 
Harwood,  198. 
Haskell,    187,    196,    420, 

583. 
Haskins,  427. 
Hastings,  1 1".  13k.  556. 
Hasty,  23  t.  297,  301. 
Hatfield,  150. 
Hathaway,  235,  237. 


Hatch,      126,      127.     231. 
240,  347.  400,  417.  495. 
Hathorn,  79. 
Haven.  406. 
Hawes,  191,  55  1. 
Hawk  ;s,   172.  1ST.  319. 
Hawkins.  560. 
Hawse,  2--.  494. 

I  [ayden,  454. 

Haves,  251,  267,  271.  283, 

3*17.  499.  .li  8. 
Hayward,  537,  543.   565. 
Haywood,  370. 
Hazard.  561. 
Hazeltine,  357. 
Hazelton.  42s. 
Hazen,  457. 
Head.  280. 
Heal.-.  486. 
Healy,  417. 
Heard.  96,  236.  240.  357, 

426. 
Heard  (Hurd) 

m  Susannah,   256. 

"    Hannah,  257. 

"    Nathan.  257. 

•  •    .Moses.  258. 

• '    Miles.  268. 

"   John,  269. 

"    Nathan,    281. 

< '    Charles,  284. 

' '    Mary,  315. 

"    David,  521. 
Heath.  278. 
Helk,  331. 
Hem  en  way,  493. 
Henderson,  464. 
Henry,  299. 
Herald,  471. 
Herrick,  141,  528. 
Herington,  225. 
Hersom.  26S.  348. 
Hewitt,  483. 
Heywood,  310,  497. 
Hickey,  334. 
Hicks,  71,  156,  216.  392. 

45i'. 
Hield,  148. 

Higgins,  165,  512,  524. 
Highby,  405. 
Hilbourn,  1S7. 
Hildreth,  404,  405.  554. 
Hill.  75,  79,  88,  14  6.  244, 

316,  331.  435,  559.  57s. 
Hilton.  150,291,361,368, 

386.  426. 
Hines,  231.  279,  504. 
Hinkley,    139,    140,    151. 

2  15. 
Hinkson,  289. 

I I  Ltchings,  172. 
Hoag.  560. 
Hoak,  393. 

Hoar,  137,  138,  151,  423. 

563. 
Hobart,  119,  128. 


Hobbie,  224. 
Hobbs,  167.  254,  373. 
Hodgkins.   135.   143,  231. 
Hodsdon,    194,    253.    285, 

376,  537. 
Hoffman,  148. 
Holbrook,  191,  396.  400. 
Holden.  181,  246.  506. 
Holder.  17  s. 
Holley,  262. 
Holman.  466. 
Holmes.  178,  321,  542. 
Holt.  209.  274.  382. 
IIol\  orson.  132. 
Holwav.  565. 
Hoogle,  220. 
Hoogs,  512. 
Hook,  77,  506. 
Hoopes.  533. 
Hooper,  2S6. 
Hoper,  186. 

Hopkins.  205,  329,  466. 
Home,  386. 
Horton,  454. 
Hosford,   579. 
Hoskins,  514. 
Hoslev.  127. 
Houghton,  332. 
Houston,  306. 
Howard.    143.    219,    376, 

458,  514. 
Howe.  131. 
Howell.  376.  514. 
Howson,  562. 
Hovt,  273,  331.  336,  341, 

37s.  420,  447.  457.  477. 

514. 
Hubbard.   153,   256,   286, 

349.  352.  353,  396,  429, 

571. 
Huckins,  238. 
Huff.  291. 
Huggett,  567. 
Hulburt,  236. 
Hulett,  559. 
Hull,  119. 

Humphrey,  164,  197,  397. 
Humphries,  495. 
Hunnewell,  78,  210. 
Hunt.      177,      403,      458, 

542,  553.  ' 
Huntley.  223.  551. 
Huntington,  307. 
Huntoon,  140. 
Husmann,  408. 
Husten,  170,  421. 
Huston,  164. 
Hussey,  351,  376. 
Hute  kings,  166. 
Hutehins.  130.  270,  350. 
Hutchinson,  333,  549. 
Hyde,  204. 
Ileff,  192. 
Illsey.  247. 
Illsley,  433. 


INDEX 


603 


Ingalls,     155,     172,     234, 

235. 
Ingersol,  70,  82. 
Iugraham,  426. 
limes,  297. 
Irish,  238. 
Isenhour,    243. 
Isensee,  339. 
Jackman,  245. 
Jackson,    148,    171,    179, 

193,  246,  285,  292,  322, 

348,  405,  417,  425. 
Jacobs,  143. 
Jacquith,  352. 
James,  138,  497. 
Jameson.  296. 
Janes,  242,  388. 
Janvorin,  446. 
Jarman,  307. 
Jarrot,  327. 
Jeffers,  178. 
Jenkins,    100,   517. 
Jepson,  299. 
Jewell,  135,  395. 
Jewett,  500,  506,  554. 
Joaquin,  356. 
Joeelyn,  49.  60,  192. 
Johnson,     59,     168,     233, 

238,  260,  324,  368,  404, 

522.  571. 
Johnston,  140,  375. 
Johnstone,  205. 
Jolly,  391. 
Jones,  125,  173,  233,  238, 

274,  283,  286,  316,  326, 

350,  381,  422,479,527, 

564. 
Jordan,  60,  164,  197,  205, 

245,  292,  430,  578. 
Joy,  300,  306. 
Joynes,  255. 
Judd,  344. 

Judkins,  243,  276,  283. 
Juloff,  277. 
Junkins,  429. 
Kanar,  570. 
Kay,  260. 
Kayton,    128. 
Keay,  257,  260. 
Keazer,   565. 
Keene,  166,  417. 
Keith,  139. 
Keitz,  337. 

Kelley,  205,  288,  377,  516. 
Kellogg,  574. 
Kelsey,  107. 
Kemp,    189. 
Kempton,  150,  171. 
Kendall,  190. 
Kendrick,  418. 
Kenerson,  280,  300. 
Keniston,  278. 
Kennedy,  280. 
Kenney,  189,  242. 
Kenniston,  445. 
Kent,   459. 


Ketchum,  559. 

Keyes,  435. 

Kevsor,  451. 

Kibbee,  569. 

Kilgore,  101,  565. 

Kimball,    231,    251,    288, 

322,  496. 
Kincaid,  504. 
King,  399,  492,  566. 
Kinsley,    117. 
Kloeppel,  277. 
Knapp,  463. 
Knickerbocker,  242. 
Knight.  85,  168,  171,  ISO, 

186,  231,  280,  371,  42  I, 

446,  488. 
Knowles,  123,  334,  405. 
Knowlton,  394,  421,  548. 
Knox,  141,  203,  26S,  286. 
Koogle,  292. 
Krause,  283. 
Kranze,  572. 
Labidda,  251. 
Labree,  356. 
Lacey,  428. 
Lacroix,  337. 
Ladd,  459,  517. 
Lahman,  575. 
Lake,  530. 
Lakeman,  140. 
Lamb,  139,  151,  169,  319, 

324. 
Lambert,  552. 
Lambord,  106. 
Lamphire,  561. 
Lamphrey,  383. 
Lancaster,  497,  558. 
Lane,   84,   141,   165,   193, 

368,  419,  432. 
Lang,  123,  324,  431. 
Langdon,  370. 
Langley,  259,  261. 
Lapham,  450. 
Larrabee,  244. 
Larkins,  568. 
Lary,  245,  257,  284. 
Lathrop,  198. 
Lauchlen,  491. 
Laughton,  149. 
Law,  288. 

Lawrence,  241,  319,  507. 
Lawry,  153. 
Lawton,  558. 
Lay,  575. 
Leach,  173,  176. 
Learned,  492. 
Leavitt,  71, 146,  193,  239, 

348,  448,  557,  565. 
Lee,  243,  246,  405. 
Lees,  574. 
Leger,  110. 

Leighton,  166,  187,  205. 
Leonard,  466. 
Lesan,  193. 


N 


Lewis,  127,  140,  205,  220, 

238,  277,  321,  333,  343, 

398,  471,  476,  559. 
Levman,  307. 
Libby,  165,  240,  254,  292, 

293,  420. 
Libby 

m  Zachariah,  84. 

"    Sarah,  101. 

' '    Esther,  234. 

"    Mehitable,  238. 

"    Eobert,  239. 

"    Charles  A.,  248. 

"   Samuel,  249. 

"   Alice  A.,  249. 

"   Isaac,  259. 

"   Ebenezer,  "2-60. 

"   Mary,  270. 

"    Manly  G.,  282. 

"    Abigail,  324. 

"    Joshua,  345. 

"   Betsey,  418. 

"    Seth,  431. 

"    Gilman,  433. 
Lightner,  146. 
Lincoln,  372,  383,  531. 
Lindslev,  317,  333. 
Linn,  308,  335. 
Litchfield,  179. 
Little,  130,  168,  448,  553. 
Littlefield,   89,   260,   275, 

323,  356,  421. 
Livermore,  104,  499. 
Loak,  204. 
Locke,  58,  122,  123,  456, 

484. 
Lockhart,  66. 
Lockwood,  512. 
Lombard,  187,  420. 
Longee,  372. 
Longley,  146,  170. 
Loomis,  151,  242. 
Lord,   96,    187,   245,   271, 

313,  579. 
Lord 

m  Olive,  174. 

"   Lydia,  268. 

"   Sybel,  269. 

"    John,  272. 

"   Eoxanna,  278. 

' '   James,  311. 

' '    Keziah,  385. 

' '    James,  428. 

' '   Joseph,  429. 

' '    Joshua,  429. 
Loring,     291,     292,     305, 

555. 
Louis,  306. 
Lovejoy,    210,    318,    335, 

497. 
Lovell,  132. 
Lovett,  419. 

Low,  220,  221,  290,  367. 
Lowell,     140,     145,     169, 

173. 
Lucas,  418. 


604 


INDEX 


Luce,  208,  286,  288,  341, 

394. 
Ludwig,   331. 
Lull,  319. 
Lumpkin,  216. 
Lunt,    91.    92,    127,    142. 

147.  216,  229,  239.  244. 
Lvford,  367. 
Lyman,  106,  323,  326. 
Lvmon,  573. 
Lyon,  153,  19S. 
Lyons,  324. 
Maberry,    415. 
Mabrv,  167. 
MacColl,    316. 
Macey,  450. 
Maekey,  278. 
Mackfie,  464. 
Mackmaster,  507. 
Macworth.  46. 
Gladden,  335. 
Madison,  555. 
Magoon,  457. 
Mahew,  220. 
Mahonev,  340. 
Main,    498. 
Mains,  173. 
Major,  353. 
Malcolm.  255. 
Malley,  262. 
Malone,  92,  553. 
Manchester,    173,    501. 
Mandv,  334. 
Manfield,  126. 
Mann,  169.  474,  549. 
Manning.  119.  36S.  377. 
Mantor,  556. 
Manuel,  334. 
March,  92,  363,  477. 
Marcv,  524. 
Marden,    123.    456. 
Margeson.    459. 
Marin,  497. 
Markley,  324. 
Marriner.  394. 
Marsh,  119,  140,  241,  271, 

422,  529. 
Marshall,  321,  336,  376. 
Marston,  59,  85,  108,  122, 

189,  294,  362,  374,  550. 
Martin,  58,  181,  239.  295, 

301. 
Mason,  167.  189,  571. 
Masson,  385. 
Mathes,   447. 
Mathewson,  396. 
Matson,  559. 
Matthews,  49,  321,  407. 
Mauldin.  408. 
Maverick,    244. 
Maxfield,  377. 
Maxim.  516. 
Maxwell,  246,  507. 
Mayberry.  234,  239,  430. 
Mavlem,  71,  83.  102. 
Mayo,  216,  497. 


Meinless,  334. 
Melog.  234. 
Mendell,    235. 
Mercer,  318,  475. 
Mercur,  244. 
Merow,  165,  256. 
Merriam,    433.   456,    475. 

556. 
Merrifield.    255. 
Merrill,  86,  142,  221.  295, 

417. 
Merrill 

m  Peter,  195. 

"   Melinda,  198. 

< '    Martha,  209. 

"    Judith,  214. 

"    Benjamin,  348. 

"    Carrie,  511. 

"    George,  554. 
Meservev,  131. 
Meserve,  189.  245. 
McAllister,    434,    581. 
McArthur,    294. 
McBride,  107. 
McBurnev,  571. 
McCabe,  191. 
MeCann,    178. 
McCausland,  275. 
McClam,  128,  130,  131. 
McClish,  362. 
McClure,  552. 
McCorrison,  255. 
McCracken,  327. 
McCumber,  338. 
McDonald,  172,  208,  465. 
McDowell,    141. 
McDuffy,  367. 
McEaehern,  154. 
McFarland,      129,      131. 

231. 
McFarlane.  235. 
McGeouch,  231. 
McGowan,  474. 
McHenrv.    470. 
Mclntvre,  275.  493.  545. 
McKenney,  144,  210. 
McKeshine,  138. 
McKillopp,    205. 
McKinney,    377. 
McKinstrv,   524. 
McKnelly^    453. 
McKusick,  297. 
McLean,  251. 
McLellan,  165. 
Mr  Maim.  321. 
McXear.  324. 
McPherson,    141,    484. 
\IrShea,.280. 
McWilliams,  128. 
Miller,  233,  325,  403,  460, 

473,560. 
Millet,  417,  420. 
Milliken,  195. 
Mills,  169. 

Mink,  129,  582,  583. 
Minot,  195,  523. 


Misner,  461. 

Mitchell.     75,     145,     154, 

220,  222,  328,  417,  423. 
Mitton,    61,    72. 
Monroe,  495. 
Montague,  449. 
Montgomery.  342,  536. 
Moodv.  211,  247,  248. 
Moon^    308. 
Moore,  142,  143,  149,  406, 

425,  431. 
More,   532. 
Morey,  471. 
Morgan,  182. 
Morton,  22,  111. 
Mover,  225. 
Morrell,  255,  572. 
Morrill.     164,    172,     249, 

281,  445. 
Morrison,  317,  368. 
Morse,  177,  239,  256,  321, 

325,  391,  524. 
Morse 

m  Sarah,  85. 

"    John,  118. 

"    William,  166. 

"    Hannah,  192. 

"   Mary,  324. 

"   Martha,  451. 

"    John,  451. 

"    John,  472. 

' '    Kate,  473. 

"    Adino,  474. 

' '    Ebenezer,  487. 

' '    Amos,  503. 
Mosher,  85,  338. 
Moss,  271. 
Mossier.  395. 
Moulton,  84,  93,  189.  259, 

275,  417. 
Moyer,  225. 
Much,  207. 
Mudgett,  348,  408. 
Muloon,  371. 
Munjov.  32.  72.  104. 
Munro,  128. 
Munsey,   130. 
Munson,  297. 
Murray,    130,    326,    37S. 

393.' 
Murch,  428. 
Murphy,  290. 
Mygatt,  5()7. 
Nareross,  319. 
Isash,  421.  526. 
Xason,   99,   313,   512. 
Nay,  564.' 
Neal,  145,  181,  254,  334, 

371,  442, 
Xeate,  91. 
!Neatherhead,  504. 
Neff,  528,  569. 
Neil,   371. 

Nelson,  258,  419,  541. 
Nesbit,  348,  401,  483. 
Nesburn,  334. 


INDEX 


cor) 


Nevens,  283. 
Newhall,  299. 
Newman,  325,  510. 
Xewcomb,  189.  234,  238, 

270.  529.  530,  539. 
Newell,  395,  420,  520. 
Newth,  128. 
Nichols,  203,  295,  457. 
Nickerson,  321,  531,  565. 
Nile.  138,  140,  141. 
Nightengale,     528,     529, 

535,  538. 
Nisbett,  400. 
Noble,  431. 
Noreross,  135. 
Norris,  372. 
Northup,  578. 
Norton,  48,  233,  244,404. 
Nouse,  502. 
Nostand,  583. 
Nowell,   275. 
Noyes,  137.  169,  320. 
Nutter,  260. 
Nye,  84.  396. 
Oaks,  137,  151,  290,  294. 
O'Bleness.  482. 
O'Brien,  296. 
O 'Conner,  334. 
Odiorne,  542,  550. 
Ohl,  225. 
Oldrieve,  107. 
Oliver,  166,  564. 
Olmstead.  222,  287,  289. 
Orcutt,  148. 
Ormsby,  520. 
Orr,    223. 
Osborn,  448,  560. 
Osgood,    196. 
Ostrum,  278. 
Ott,  557,  569. 
Overlook,  382. 
Owen,  244,  432,  540. 
Oxford.  397. 
Pace,  225. 
Paddeford,  368. 
Packard,  142. 
Page,  302,  427. 
Paine,  135,  330,  424. 
Palmer,    103,    129,    448, 

473,  573. 
Pare  her,  495. 
Pardee,    224. 
Parent,  333. 
Parish,  549. 
Parker,     119,     149,     204, 

239,  271.  292,  305.  394, 

424,  429,  441,  554. 
Parkhurst,  493. 
Parmelee,  463. 
Parrot,  441. 
Parsons,    167,    192,    456, 

573. 
Partridge,  128. 
Patch,  401. 
Patten,  279,  555. 
Pattengill,  287. 


Patterson,  71,  507,  552. 

Paul,  425. 

Payne,  178. 

Peabody,  177,  378. 

Peacock,  552. 

Peake,    249. 

Pear,  316. 

Pearce,  332,  435. 

Pearl,  323. 

Peaslie,  284. 

Peavey,  267. 

Peck,  534. 

Pedrick,  505. 

Peet,  501. 

Pellet,    571. 

Pendleton,  349. 

Pendexter,  296. 

Pennell,  150. 

Perkins,    290,    355,    385, 

548,  559,  570. 
Perlev,    167. 
Perrine,  398. 
Perrv,  145,  187,  238,  244, 

282.  300.  335,  516,  521, 

•37(i. 
Peterson,  196. 
Pettee,  523. 
Pettengill,  405. 
Philbrick,  122,  317,  572. 
Philbrook,  461. 
Phillips,    104,    144,    323, 

382,  383,  426,  519. 
Philpot,  390. 
Phipps,  77,  539. 
Pickens,  250. 
Pickering,  51,  59. 
Pickering 

m  Josie  L..  288. 

' '    John,  359. 

' '    Mary,  362. 

"   Elizabeth,  367. 

"   Joshua,  367. 

"   Thomas.  369. 

"    Anne,  372. 

"    George,  379. 

"    George  E.,  379. 

' '    Joshua,  446. 

"   Martha,  447. 
Pierce,  274,  291,  326,  352, 

355,  376,  512,  553,  571. 
Pierson,  307. 
Pike,  169,  190,  286. 
Pilley,  303. 
Pillsbury,  139,  357. 
Pindar,  349. 
Pingree,  362. 
Pinkkam,  256. 
Piper.  156,  553. 
Pitcher,  262. 
Pitts,   382. 
Pixley,  223. 
Place,  88. 
Plaisted,  94. 
Plimpton,  522. 


Plummer,   146,   189,   210, 

240,  307,  407,  419,  427, 

432,  459. 
Pollard,  292,  462. 
Pollev,  235. 
Polleys,    241. 
Pomerov,    148. 
Pond,  106,  487. 
Poole,  128,  148,  250,  279. 
Pope,  532. 
Porter,  128, 150,  291,  303, 

401,  517. 
Potter,  244,  334. 
Potts,  285. 
Prahm,  271. 
Pratt,  105,  106,  107,  382, 

433    557. 
Prav,'l01,*254,  268,  274, 

296. 
Preble.  77,  208. 
Prentice,  557. 
Prescott,    298,    318,    331, 

431,  456. 
Priddy,  462. 
Pride' 92,  185,  192. 
Prince,  102. 
Prior,  394. 
Pritchard,  323. 
Proctor,  230,  250. 
Pue,  514. 
Pugsley,  233,  239. 
Pullen,  105. 
Pulling,  71,  102. 
Purington,  247,  299,  332, 

333,  567. 
Putnam,    332,    333,    431, 

494,  507- 
Quarles,  150. 
Quimbv,     137,    261.   350, 

380. 
Quincy,  111. 
Quinlan,  355. 
Quiver,  475. 
Bacine,  385. 
Eadcliffe.  514. 
Eafter,  222. 
Ball,  224. 
Eamsdell,  302. 
Eand,    49,    51,    92,    251, 

378,  409,  419. 
Randall,    186,    194,    206, 

432,  574. 
Eannells,  465. 
Banner,  223. 
Bay,  278,  385. 
Raymond,  146,  221. 
Baynes,  458. 
Bawson,   528,    556. 
Bead,  220. 
Bearser  531. 
Eearson,  533. 
Becord,  234. 
Bedlon,  248. 

Eeed,  128,  144,  40S,  417, 

517,  523. 
Eeis,  474. 


GOG 


INDEX 


Reitz,    235. 

Eemick,  254,  258. 

Reno,  224. 

Reynolds,  117,  142,  480. 

Rhoades,  389,  582. 

Rhodes,   222,   495. 

Rice,  427.  452,  491,  492, 

563. 
Rich,  242. 

Richards,  127,  481,  530. 
Richardson,  223,  505. 
Richardson 
m  Edna,  129. 
"    Albert,  247. 
"   Phebe,  272. 
"    Silas,  274. 
"    Irving,  4(15. 
"    Gilbert,  405. 
"   Sewall,  513. 
' '    Rebecca,  542. 
' '    Jeffrey;  564. 
Richmond,  373. 
Richer,  270,  272,  290,  293, 

295,  296,  353. 
h'iddell.  533. 
Ridley,  209. 
Ridlon,  429. 
Ried,  192. 
Riford,  549. 
Riggs,  123. 
Riner,  458. 
Ring,   430. 
Ripley,  106. 
Ritter,  222. 
Rivinius,  424. 
Roach,  480. 

Robbins,  489,  513,  522. 
Roberts,    187,    189,    237, 
253,  273,  275,  280,  316, 
352,  460. 
Robertson,  152,  236,  494. 
Robey,  318. 
Robie,  292. 
Robier,  181. 
Robish,  145. 

Robinson,    60,    140,    192, 
309,  361,  374,  376,  480, 
506,  523,  550. 
Rochemont,  378,  477. 
Rock,  340. 
Rogers,     149,     25S,     382, 

451. 
Rolfe,  209. 
Root,  453,  576. 
Ropes,  106. 
Roscoe,  243. 
Ross.    85,.  145,    151,    283, 

305,  423,  511. 
Roth,    209. 
Rounds,  247. 
Rowan,  505. 
Rowe,   484. 
Rowell,  426. 
Roysell,  146. 
Ruddock,  556. 
Ruggles,  116,  241,  537. 


Rullen,  234. 
Rumney,  388. 
Rumple,  252. 
Rundlett,  379. 
Rusco,   222. 

Russell,     129,     130,     172, 
178,  288,  344,  350,  504. 
Sadler,    296. 

Sanborn,    122,    170,    254, 
286,  287,   347,372,425, 
442. 
Sandberg,    305. 
Sanford,  475. 
Satardie,  283. 
Sauers,  108. 
Saunders,  548,  567. 
Sauntry,  568. 
Savary,  380. 
Sawin,  234. 
Sawtelle,  153,  321. 
Sawyer,    165,    188,    233, 

23*3,  240,  245. 
Sawyer 

m  Sarah,  85. 
"    Fannie,  169. 
"    Hannah.  185. 
"Peter,  188. 
"    Silas,  203. 
"    Zachariah,  214. 
"    Susannah,  214. 
"    Eunice,  295. 
< '    Frank,  343. 
' '    Sophronia,  349. 
' '    Elizabeth,  417. 
Scamman,  248. 
Sceggel,  458. 
Schaff,  548. 
Schenck,  570. 
Schuman,  474. 
Schwatka,  464. 
Scott.    58,    90,    244,    250, 

375,  460,  521. 
Scribner,  168.  210. 
Seagraves,  521. 
Seal,  550. 
Searl,  453. 
Sears,  144,  216. 
Seavers,  107. 
Seavey,  273,  566. 
See,  558. 
Sennott,  149. 
Senter,   507. 
Severance,  317. 
Sewall.  450. 
Shad,  169. 
Shaers.  318. 
Shanes,  141. 
Shannon,    484,    512. 
Sharp,   235.   270,   513. 
Shatto,  225. 
Shaw,  117,  143,  197,  244, 

258,  276,  327,  515. 
Shearer,  381. 
Shed,  119. 
Sheffield,  119. 
Sheldon,  223. 


Shelton,   475. 
Shepard,  145,  495. 
Shepherd,  278,  529. 
Sherman,    126,    166,    558, 

568,  569,  570. 
Shibbles,  394,  395. 
Shoettler,  318. 
Shoftner,  556. 
Shone,  174. 

Shorey,   318,   357,  495. 
Shryer,  318. 
Shryock,   319. 
Shuntz,  569. 
Sibley,  327. 
Siewerts,  428. 
Silloway,  4u7. 
Silvey,  Ap. 
Simonds,  504. 
Simmons,  142,  505. 
Simpson,    106,    190,    447, 

559. 
Singer,  450. 
Sisson,  131. 
Skidmore.    4n4. 
Shillings,  82,  85,  205,  281, 

293,  432.  434. 
Skillman,  276. 
Skimmings,  561. 
Skinner,  236. 
Slater,  568. 
Slicer,    573. 
Slick,  378. 
Sloane,  310. 
Slocum,  453. 
Slode,    521. 

Small,  169,  190,  205,  209, 
239,  247,  248,  293,  323, 
374,   l.-,s. 
Smart,  325,  368,  385,  388, 

484,  572. 
Smith,  149,  202,  223,  236, 

248,  515. 
Smith 

m  Lottie.  130. 
"    Sarah,  145. 
"    Elvira,  148. 
"    Charles,  153. 
"    Emma,  155. 
"    Charles,  156. 
"    Samuel,  193. 
"    Mindora,  195. 
"   Eva,  196. 
' '   Leonard,  205. 
' '    Susannah,  254. 
"    Myra,  301. 
' '   Lucy,  323. 
"    Mary,  323. 
"    William,  333. 
"    Nellie,  356. 
"   John,  374. 
"   Elizabeth,  390. 
"    Sarah,  399. 
"    Elkanah,  400. 
"   Meribah,  415. 
"    John,  471. 
"    William,  493. 


INDEX 


<;<h 


m  Samuel,  501. 

' '    Caroline,  506. 

"    Marilla,  523. 

"    Clara,  569. 
Smythe,   476. 
Snow,  147,  225,  303,  396, 

421,  505. 
Snowman,  137. 
Snyder,  434. 
Soper,  251. 

Soule,  145,  174,  262,  271. 
Southwortk,  69. 
Spalding,    119,    441,    549. 
Spear.  155,  527,  52s.  532, 

542. 
Spearin,  142. 
Speed,  572. 

Spencer.  95,  96,  241.  2-5. 
Sperrv,  501. 
Spikerman,  337. 
Spinage,  547. 
Spinnev,  259. 
Sprague,  223,  449. 
Springer,  134,  135,  334. 
Sproul,  124. 
Spry,  284. 
Stackpole,  221,  291. 
Stamford,  539. 
Stanley,  441.  574. 
Stanton,  314. 
Staples.     234,    239,    268, 

3.10,  447. 
Starbird,  172,  193. 
Starkev,  298,  309. 
Starling,  129. 
St.  Clair,  442. 
Steadman,  117,  292. 
Stearns,    223,    282,    430, 

516,  565. 
Stebbins,    496. 
Steel,  497,  538,  573. 
Stengel,  519. 
Steppick,  473. 
Sterling,    417,    432,    463, 

554. 
Stetson,    389,    536,    556, 

562. 
Stevens,    107,     177,     351, 

499. 
strvens 

m  Francis.  129. 

"    Maria,  143. 

"    John,  170. 

"    Edwin,  208. 

"    Sarah,  214. 

"    Josiali.  224. 

"    Herbert,  279. 

' '    George,  29o. 

"   Harriet,  348. 

"   Susan,  348. 

"    George,  435. 
Stevenson,  408. 
Steward,  140. 
Stewart,  553. 
Stiles,  277,  424. 
Stillings,  254,  256. 


Stimson,  406. 
Stippick,  451. 
Stone,  193,  195,  292,  309, 

338,  403,  493,  506,  512. 
Storer,  79,  144. 
Straighton,  427. 
Strauss,  513. 
Streeter,  556. 
Strout,  191,  239,  245,  247, 

46ii. 
Stuart,  146,  506,  543. 
Stubbs,  33,  254. 
Studley,  107,  149. 
Sturges,  557. 
Styles,  250. 
Su'bit,  337. 
Sutton,  141. 
Swaine,  427. 
Swanson,  351. 
Sweenev,  276. 
Sweet,  280,  423,  530,  568. 
Swena,  579. 
Sydleman,  190. 
Sylvester,   191,  430,  561. 
Symonds,  426. 
Talbot,  177. 
Tanner,  245. 
Tappan,  506. 
Tarbox,  195,  292. 
Tasker,  326. 
Tator,  548. 
Tatterdon,  238. 
Taylor,  334,  504,  546,  560. 
Teague,  374. 
Tebbets.  375. 
Teller.  559. 
Temple,  234. 
Tenney,  246,  421,  431. 
Terpening,  570. 
Tetherty,  457. 
Thayer,    398,    527,    538, 

572. 
Thing,  153. 
Thomas,    140,    168,    189, 

288,  302,  327,  515. 
Thombs.  166. 
Thompson,  124,  128,  253, 

255,  277,  285,  309,  373, 

462,  560. 
Thompson 

m  Hannah,  98. 

"    Mary,  119. 

"    Sophia,  189. 

"   Loretta,   195. 

"    Cornelius,  207. 

"    John,  253. 

"    John,  335. 

' '    Eoxilany,  521. 

"    Truman,  560. 
Thorn,  428. 
Thorndike,  562. 
Thorp,  487. 
Thorts,  431. 
Tibbetts,    131.    151,    194, 

lo:,.  231,  3"46. 
Tidd,  558. 


Tillson,  152,  352. 
Tilton,  198,  492,  499. 
Tinerdale,  249. 
Tinkham,    277. 
Titcomb,  272,  355. 
Titus,  377. 
Toby,  229,  284. 
Tod'd,  330. 
Tolla,  532. 

Tolman,  234,  308,  352. 
Toothaker,  139,  203. 
Torry,  195,  248. 
Totman,  532. 
Tournot,  32s. 
Tourt,  337. 
Tower,  549. 
Towle,  71,  352. 
Towne,  291. 
Townsend.  244.  559. 
Tozier,  94,  272.  273. 
Tracy,  419,  473. 
Traf  ton,  448. 
Trask,  581. 
Travel's.  452. 
Treadwell,  367. 
Trefethen,  123,  417,  422, 

426. 
Tribou,  248. 
Triue,  252. 
Tripp,  319. 
Trott.  430. 
Trubler,  432. 
True.  155. 
Trueworthy,  298. 
Tryon,  320. 
Tucker,  217,  453,  484. 
Tuell,  168. 

Tufts.  206,  207,  494,  553. 
Tukey,  426. 
Tupper,  255. 
Turlev,  336. 
Turner,     138,     465,     482, 

555,  569. 
Tuttle,  98,  150,  174,  193, 

305,  336,  457.  545. 
Twiss.  325.  552. 
Twitchell,  288,  309. 
Twombly,  258,  274,  282. 
Tyler,  497,  521.  532. 
Tyng,  46.  65. 
Underwood.  471. 
Upham,  117,  521,  522. 
Urann,  513. 
Urquhart,  424. 
Usher,  245. 
Van  Auken,  570. 
Vance,  235. 
Van  Dusen,  404. 
Van  Hoosen,  572. 
Van  Horn,  130. 
Van  Svckle,  427. 
Varney,  341. 
Vaughn,  58. 
Veasey,    331,    366,    459, 

527.'  535,  538. 
Viles,  498. 


CDS 


INDEX 


Vincent,  279,  556. 
Voight,  390. 
^osburg,  5  18. 
Vose,  370. 
Waddell,  L70. 
Wade,  i.".s,  148,  318. 
Wadleigh,  553. 
Wagoner,  207. 
Waite,  L05,  291. 
field,  525. 
Wakely,  72,  577. 
Waldo,  121. 
Walden,  183. 
Waldron,  73. 
Wales,  554. 
Walford,  49,  54. 
Walker,     L64,    169, 

L76,    180,   272,303, 

159,  570. 
Wallace,    K8,    460, 

565. 
Wallis,   16,  231. 
Wann,  474. 
Ward,  117.  233,  418, 

566. 
Wark,  17'.'. 
War.].  397. 
Warner,  560. 
Warren,  96,  188,  197, 

262,  H7.  121,  520. 
Washburn,  546. 
Waterhouse,     198, 

269,  300,  391. 
Waterman,  274. 
Watkins,  119. 
Watson,  v..  ii7,  193, 

270,  298,  340,  375, 
4  5 1 . 

Wayne,  36S. 
Weaver,  222. 
Webb,  85,  153,  423, 

449. 
Webber,    165,    168, 

298,  316. 
Webster,  123,  337. 
Wedge  wood,  296. 
Weed,  292. 
Weeks,  189,  420. 
Weeks 

m  Joshua,  91. 

• '    .Moses,  296. 

'•    Isaac,  301. 

'•    Deborah,  441. 


174, 
1  12, 

552, 


554, 


236, 


234, 
446, 


441, 
293, 


m  Joseph,  443. 

"    .Martha,  444. 

• '  A ilino,  454. 
W'lisgerber,  376. 
Welch,  173.  181,  188,240, 

241,   122,  515,  571. 
Wellington,  305. 
Wellman,  278. 
Weller,  292. 
Wells,  291,  315,  583. 
Wendell,  208. 
Wentworth,      231,      260, 

271,  277,  284,  294,  313, 

314,  347,  497. 
West,'  195,  238,  396. 
Weston,  583. 
WVtherbee,  108,  394,558. 
Wetherell,  494. 
Wetmore,  575. 
Weymouth,  295. 
Wheaton,  459. 
Wheeler,    127,    224,    283, 

295,  483. 
Wheelock,  562. 
■Whipple,  331,  375,  551. 
Wliiteomb,  427. 
White,  los,  156,  234,463, 

491,  557. 
Whitehead,  403. 
Whitehouse,      148,      189, 

386. 
Whiting,  173. 
Whitman,  556. 
Whitmore,  144,  426. 
"Whitney,   172,   190,   193, 

220,  247,  426,  498,  552, 

562. 
Whiton,  505. 
Whitten,  458. 
Whittier,  154,  331. 
Wieting,  570. 
Wiggin,     92,     279,     294, 

315,  355,  361,  372,  386, 
388,  393,  441,  454,  554, 
574. 

Wight,  148,169,170,193. 
Wilber,  139,  145. 
Wilcox,    481,    514,    550, 

555. 
Wilder,  505. 
Wildes,  539. 
Wiley,  107,  392. 
Wilkins,    286,    325,    334, 

513. 


Wilkinson,  325. 
Willard,  66,  70,  108,453. 
Willey,     257,     258,     261, 

378. 
Williams,   106,   116,   165, 

30S,  339,  467,  571,  576. 
Willis,  521. 
Wills,  154,  521. 
Wilson,     149,     185,    356, 

448,  466,  506,  578. 
Winckell,  315,  351. 
Wing,  139. 
Wringfield,  462. 
Wingate,  441,  443. 
Winn,  234,  308,  314. 
Winship,  139. 
Winslow,  165,  178,  234. 
Winsor,  466. 
Winter,  498. 
Winthrop,  108. 
Wire,  214. 
Wiseman,  170. 
Witcher,  71. 
Withey.  145. 
Witt,  378,  447. 
Wolf,  250. 
Wood,  92,  146,  151,  210, 

234,  398 
Woodard,  574. 
Woodbury,  92,   127,   211, 

400,  422,  428. 
Woodcock,  146,  149,  154. 
Woodhouse,  448,  452. 
Woodman,   88,   101,   430, 

490. 
Woodsum,  101,  179,  255, 

270.  326. 
Woodward,  176,  488. 
Worcester,  290,  291,  293. 
Wormwood,  283,  377. 
Worthen,  356. 
Worthley,  128,  144,  581. 
Wright,     178,    245,    380, 

403,  450,  552,  565,  572. 
Wycoff,  204,  224. 
Wyman,  150,  203,  268. 
Yeaton,  286,  373. 
Ykaddyn,  343. 
York,   70,  108,   231,   237, 

296,  321,  387. 
Young,     153,     197,     313, 

335,  565. 


i  r 


*«<■  "   . 


0 


Jf    JL  jGr^     *^- 


QUUL  Oy.JU 


CI  IS 

Vincent,  2 
Voight,  39 
Vosbu 
"\  ose,  370. 
Waddell,  1 
Wade,  L38, 
Wadleigh, 
Wagoner, 
Waite,  L05 
Wakefield, 
Wakely,  7: 
Waldo,  i-i 
Walden,  4? 
Waldron,  7 
Wales,  55  1 
Walford,  4 
Walker,    ] 

176,   180 

159,  570. 
Wallace,    : 

565. 
Wallis,  46, 
Wann,  47  ' 
Ward,  117 

566. 
Wark,  179. 
Warn.  :;!>, 
Warner,  5 
Warren.  9( 

262,  417. 
Washburn, 
Waterhous 

269,  300.  *• 
Waterman 

Wat  I;  ins.  i 
\\  at  si ui,  85 

270,  298, 

457.        '  1 

Wayne,  36! 
Weaver,  2! 
Webb,  85, 

i  19 
Webber, 

298,  316. 
Webster,  1 
Wedge  woo 
Weed,  292. 
Weeks,  18! 
Weeks 

in  Joshu 
•    Moses 

"    Isaac 

"   Debo 


