3  9999  08714  542  9 


a 


i 

l 


*  . 


♦ 


l 


* 


t 


liJND. 


'<5 


VOL.  II. 


-FART  10. 


Suffolk  Manorial  Families, 


BEING 


Couttfj)  QJtetfaftone  anb  ofper  (pebtgreee, 


EDITED ,  WITH  EXTENSIVE  ADDITIONS, 

Ar 

if.S~30tu,  //d 

N, 


BY 


JOSEPH  JAMES  MUSKETT, 

Honorary  Member  of  the  Suffolk  Institute  of  Archaeology,  Corresponding  Member  of  the 

Historic  Genealogical  Society  of  New  England. 


It  is  the  Editor’s  desire  to  make  this  work  an  exhaustive  resume  of  the  Genealogy  of  the 
Shire.  It  will  be  issued,  to  Subscribers  only,  in  Parts  of  forty  pages,  price  5s.  each,  and  the 
number  will  be  restricted  to  250  copies.  Communications  to  be  addressed  to  the  Editor, 
11,  Talbot  Road,  South  Tottenham,  London. 


PRIVATELY  PRINTED. 


5^1 


EXETER : 

WILLIAM  POLLARD  k  Co.  Ltd.,  PRINTERS  <t  LITHOGRAPHERS,  NORTH  STREET. 

1908. 


Suffolk 


jfamtlies 


BEING 


Cf)f  Counts  Ctsttations  aitii  ortjrr  ^Setiujrees, 


EDITED,  WITH  EXTENSIVE  ADDITIONS. 


BY 


JOSEPH  JAMES  MUSKETT, 


HONORARY  MEMBER  OF  THE  SUFFOLK  INSTITUTE  OF  ARCHEOLOGY,  CORRESPONDING  MEMBER  OF  THE 
HISTORIC  GENEALOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF  NEW  ENGLAND. 


»  •  •  an 


MotJto  ii 


EXETER : 


WILLIAM  POLLARD  dt  Co.  Ltd.,  PRINTERS  &  LITHOGRAPHERS,  NORTH  STREET. 


1908. 


FBI  VA  TEL  Y  FEINTED. 


« 


& 

^  ^  3  o  a-,  //d 


. 

v5\  o  r" 

JS 


(l/nst  % 


\ 


Hotirll  of  astjfitlti. 


Jlratorial  hearings. 

The  arms  of  Robert  Hovell  of  Ashfleld,  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664,  were  Sable,  a 
ci’oss  Or.  His  crest  was  a  greyhound  couchant  Or,  collared  and  lined  Sable.  Beneath  the 
tricking  in  Harl.  MS.  1085  are  the  words  “p  Wm  Flower,  Norroy.”  Flower  was  Voitov  King 
of  Arms  from  1580  to  1588. 

The  arms  allowed  at  the  same  Visitation  to  John  Hovell  als  Smith,  of  Ash  Booking, 
.  clerk,  who  married  the  daughter  and  coheir  of  Horsman,  of  Berge  Apton,  and  was  cousin  german 
to  Robert  Hovell  above  mentioned,  were : — Sable,  a  cross  Or  between  four  water  bougets  Argent, 
a  crescent  for  difference ;  on  a  shield  of  pretence,  for  Horsman,  Azure,  a  horse  barnacle  (an 
instrument  used  by  farriers  to  curb  horses)  Or  between  three  plates ;  on  a  chief  party  per  pale 
indented  Gules  and  Sable,  two  roses  Argent.  The  authority  for  these  insignia,  Harl.  MS.  1085, 
corresponds  to  a  similar  MS.  at  the  Gollege  of  Arms. 

Martin,  the  son  of  Adam  Hovell,  a  kinsman  of  the  Hovells  of  Wyverstone,  is  the  first 
member  of  the  family  who  is  known  to  have  owned  lands  in  Ashfield,  Bad  well,  and  Hunston. 
He  purchased  them  in  1258  by  Fine  dated  42  Henry  III.  In  “Guillim’s  Roll  of  Arms,” 
Harl.  MS.  6137,  written  about  the  year  1300,  Sir  Robert  Hovell,  of  Wyverstone,  bears  the  golden 
cross  on  the  black  shield  allowed  to  Robert  Hovell,  of  Ashfield,  in  1664.  According  to  the 
Roll  in  Cottonian  MS.  Caligula,  A.  16,  which  has  been  printed  in  “Parliamentary  Writs,  Vol.  I,” 
the  same  arms  were  used,  a  generation  later,  by  Sir  Hugh  Hovell  and  Sir  Stephen  Hovell, 
Sir  Robert’s  sons. 

The  inscriptions  in  Great  Ashfield  chancel  to  Lord  Thurlow’s  grandfather,  Smith  (als 
Hovell),  and  his  son  are  accompanied  by  shields  bearing  a  bend  between  six  billets,  the  crest 
being  a  talbot  collared  and  lined.  Lord  Thurlow’s  hatchment,  on  the  other  hand,  had  Thurlow 
quartering  the  rightful  arms  of  Hovell  of  Ashfield,  Sable,  a  cross  Or. 


$hirtl}as£  of  AsbMb  Xaitbs  bn  jKartht  irokll,  1258. 

Hec  est  finalis  concord  lea  in  Cur  Dili  Reg  apd  Katteshell  a  die  sci  Martini  in  tres  sept 

anno  regni  Reg  Henr  fit  Reg  Jotiis  quadrages  scclo  coram  Gilbo  de  Preston  Ro£V>  de  Wycestr  Witio 

de  Engelfeld  Witio  de  CobelPin  &  J otie  de  Cokefeld  Justic  itinantibj  &  aliis  dni  Reg  fide!  tuc  ibi 

psent  In?  Martini!  Hovel  quer  A  Arnulphm  de  Lofh*m  it  Mariam  vx  eius  inped  de  vno  mesuag 

ik  triginta  acr  tre  cum  ptinent  in  Hunterestun  &  Badewell  Assfeld,  vnd  plat  War  carte  sum 
fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Sett  qd  jidci  Arnulphus  A  Maria  recogh  [idea  mesuag  ifc  ?ram  cum 

B 


2 


SUFFOLK  MAORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ptin  esse  Jus  ipius  Martini,  et  ilia  que  idem  Martinus  het  de  dono  ipo^  Arnulphi  &  Marie. 
H abend  &  tenend  eidem  Martino  <fc  hered  suis  de  Capit  Dnis  feodi  illius  inppetuu  ffaciendo  inde 
omia  suicia  que  ad  (idea  mesuag  tram  ptinent.  Et  p  hac  recogn  fine  A:  concord  idem  Martinus 
dedit  ffdcis  Arnulpho  &  Marie  Quadraginta  marc  argenti.  Suff 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  41  &  42  Hen.  III.,  No.  47. 


Mill  of  Hokrt  Unapp,  1565. 

Robert  Knappe  of  Wetheringsett  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  yeoman,  7th  Sept.  1563.  I 

and  my  son  John  Knapp  the  elder  stand  bound  to  Nicholas  P’trich  of  Creting  and  Thomas 
Colby  of  Brockford  to  pay  yearly  to  Anne  my  wife,  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Horseman,  the 
suihe  of  tenne  powndes,  by  way  of  dower.  I  give  and  bequeath  to  the  said  John  lands  in 
Nedham  M’kett  and  Barkinge,  the  lease  of  Bosberowe  and  the  annuity  payable  to  me  out  of 
the  Manor  of  Bushoppeshall  in  Battisford.  Unto  John  Knapp  the  yonger  my  son  tenement  and 
lands  in  Barking,  Creating,  Battisford  and  Badley.  To  Robert  Knappe  my  son,  lands.  To 
Thomas  Knapp  my  son  lands  in  Coddenham.  Studds,  after  the  decease  of  my  wife,  to  pass  to 
John  Knapp  the  younger  my  son.  Lands  in  Battisford  and  Combs  to  George  Knapp  my  son 
at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  years.  (Many  other  lands  described  in  detail.)  To  Myrable 
my  daughter.  To  Thomas  Horsman  and  Mary  Horsman,  children  of  Anne  my  wife,  when 

twenty  one.  My  four  youngest  children,  viz :  John  the  longer,  Robert,  Thomas  and  George. 
To  the  children  of  John  Knapp  the  elder  my  son  when  twenty  one.  He  and  John  Knapp 

the  younger  to  be  my  executors.  Last  will  of  Julyan  Aldame  my  late  mother.  Probat. 

2  May  1564.  Norwich  Consistory,  Book  “  Knightes,”  fo.  304b. 

The  first  wife  of  the  testator  and  the  mother  of  his  children,  was  Margaret,  daughter  of 

Edmond  Poley  Esq.,  of  Badley,  by  Mirabel,  daughter  of  John  Garneys,  of  Kenton.  Her  brother, 

John  Poley,  married  Anne,  daughter  of  Lord  Wentworth  of  Nettlestead,  a  near  kinswoman  to 
Queen  Elizabeth.  Mirabel  Knapp,  her  daughter,  who  became  the  wife  of  Robert  Hovell  ats  Smith, 
of  Ashfield,  was  thus  connected  with  some  of  the  best  families  of  Suffolk.  Her  will  follows  those 

of  her  husband  and  her  eldest  son,  who  predeceased  her. 

Many  yeomen  of  the  sixteenth  century  were  large  landed  proprietors,  and,  like  Robert 
Knapp,  married  the  daughters  of  the  gentry  around  them.  Like  him,  too,  they  founded  families 
whose  pedigrees  are  given  in  the  Heralds’  Visitations. 


Mill  ot  Etfba’t  Itobdl  als.  1602. 

llobert  Hovell  als  Smythe  th’elder  of  great  Ashefeild  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk  yeoman 
the  forth  daye  of  June,  1602.  To  Robert  my  sonne  lands  (described):  he  to  pay  legacies  to 
Edmund,  Samwell  and  Thomas  my  sonnes.  To  Richard  my  sonne  a  grove  and  messuage  in 
Elmswell  and  lands  in  Wetherden.  Unto  Thomas  my  sonne  tenements  in  Stanton,  Bardwell 
and  Ixworth.  To  Edmund  my  sonne  a  wood  called  Ashefield  Parke,  containing  four  and  thirtie 


HOVELL  OF  ASHFIELD. 


3 


acres,  Ac.  All  other  lands  to  Robert  Hovell  my  sonne.  To  John  Baker  my  sonne  in  lawe 
and  Elizabeth  Baker  his  daughter.  To  John  my  sonne.  To  Thomas  Knope  my  brother  in 

lawe.  To  Elizabeth  Susan,  Liddia,  and  Dorothie,  daughters  of  Robert  Hovell  my  sonne.  To 

Robert,  Thomas  and  Edmund  Hovell,  sonnes  of  Robert  my  sonne  at  their  ages  of  one  and 

twentie  yeares.  To  Martha  and  Elizabeth  Hovell  daughters  of  John  my  sonne.  Myrable  my 

wife  to  be  executrix.  Probat  5°  die  Octobris,  1610. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “Rogen,”  fo.  251b. 

The  testator  Robert  Hovell  als.  Smyth  and  Robert  Hovell,  junior,  his  son,  made  large 
purchases  of  lands  in  Bardwell,  Elmswell,  Stanton,  Walsham  le  Willows-  and  Wetherden,  together 
with  a  watermill  and  other  property  in  Stowmarket  and  Combes,  during  the  reign  of  Queen 
Elizabeth,  as  may  be  seen  by  the  Fines  of  that  period  in  the  Record  Office. 


Mill  of  Kokrt  lobdl  ab.  Smttlj,  1611. 

Robert  Hovell  als  Smyth  of  Walsham  le  Willowes,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  6th  Nov.  1611. 
Elizabeth  my  wife  to  have  the  care  and  education  of  my  children.  To  John  Baker  of  Great 
Ashfield  my  brother  in  lawe  and  Robert  Hovell  my  eldest  sonne,  after  the  decease  of  Merrable 
Hovell  als  Smyth  my  mother,  lands  in  Ashfield  and  Elmswell ;  they  to  pay  my  said  wife  xx1 
yearlie  and  the  legacies  of  my  fathers  will  to  Edmond  and  Thomas  Hovell  my  brothers.  To 
Elizabeth  and  Susan  my  daughters  to  either  of  them  200*  at  their  ages  of  one  and  twentie 
yeares.  To  Thomas  and  William  my  sonnes  when  twentie  one.  To  William,  Edmond,  Francis, 
Dorothe,  Lydde,  Richard,  George  and  Margaret  my  children.  Many  lands  (described)  to  Robert 
Hovell  my  sonne  whom  I  appoint  executor;  but  should  he  die  I  ordeyne  my  brothers,  John 
Baker  and  Edmond  Hovell,  and  Thomas  Hovell  my  sonne  to  be  Executors.  As  next  heyre  to 
Samuell  Hovell  my  brother  I  have  interest  in  a  close  in  Wetherden.  Probat,  quarto  die 
Octobris,  1615,  Elizabethe  Hovell  relicte  and  executricis. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Stevens,”  fo.  282. 


MtU  of  Jltirabl  irobell,  1651. 

The  fifth  daye  of  April,  1631,  Mirrable  Hovell  als  Smyth  of  Ashfield  Magna  in  the  Countie 
of  Suff :  widdowe.  To  the  eight  children  of  my  sonne  John  Smyth,  viz:  John,  Martha,  Elizabeth,. 
Marie,  Symon,  Rachell,  Oliffe,  and  William,  at  their  ages  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  To  the 
five  children  of  my  sonne  Edmond  Smyth,  Elizabeth,  Marie,  Robert,  Abigale  and  Lydia.  To  the 
three  children  of  my  sonne  Thomas  Smyth,  Elizabeth,  Deborah  and  Hannah  at  their  severall  ages 
of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  To  Robert  Smyth  eldest  sonne  of  my  sonne  Robert  Smyth  and 
Elizabeth  Gibbon  widdowe  his  sister.  My  daughter  Baker’s  seven  children,  viz :  John,  Elizabeth, 
William,  Richard,  Anne,  Sarah  and  Marie  Baker,  when  twenty  one.  My  said  daughter  Elizabeth 
Baker,  widowe,  to  be  sole  executrix.  Probat.  22  Jan.,  1631. 

Arch.  Sudb '  Liber  “  Colman,”  fo.  93b, 


4 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Htdiartr  Hofadl  als.  Smith,  1632. 

The  12th  day  of  April,  1632,  Richard  Houell  als  Smith,  of  Wetherden  in  the  Countie  of 
Suffolk,  yeoman.  To  my  nephew,  Richard  Smith  sonne  of  my  brother  Robert,  William  Baker, 
Elizabeth,  Anne,  Sarah  and  Mary  Baker,  children  of  my  sister  Baker.  To  my  nieces  Olive  Smith, 
Rachell  Smith,  Martha  Barnes  and  Elizabeth  Haughes.  To  my  sister  the  wife  of  John  Houell  als 
Smith  my  brother.  To  the  poor  of  Wetherden,  Ashfield,  Elmswell  and  Haughley.  John  Houell 
als  Smith  the  elder,  my  brother,  and  John  Houell  als  Smith  the  yonger  and  Symon  Houell  als 
Smith,  sonnes  of  my  said  brother  John  to  be  executors.  Jofies  Muskett,  a  witness.  Probate 
16th  April,  1641,  to  John  and  Symon  Hovell  als  Smith. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “Muriel,”  fo.  235. 


Mill  of  ©lito  ffioofchmt,  1653. 

This  twentie  nynth  day  of  July  1653  I  Oliver  (sic)  Goodwin  of  Wetherden  in  the  Countie  of 
Suff.  widdow  do  make  this  my  last  will.  I  give  my  goods  to  my  son  John  Goodwin.  If  he  die 
before  he  accomplish  his  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares  then  I  give  them  to  be  equally  devided 
betweene  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  is  to  say,  John  Smith  and  Symon  Smith,  Martha  Barnes, 
Elizabeth  Cossens,  Rachael  Garrade,  and  John  and  Rachaell  Kilborne  the  children  of  my  sister 
Mary  Kilborne  deceasd.  I  appointe  John  Smith  and  Symon  Smith  my  brothers  to  be  executors. 
In  wittnes  whereof  I  have  hereonto  put  my  hand  and  seale.  This  will  was  proved  att  London 
the  three  and  twentieth  day  of  November  1655  by  the  oath  of  John  Smith  and  Symon  Smith, 
brothers  of  the  deceased.  P.C.C.  461  Aylett. 


Mill  of  Jltargartf  L#ofaU  ala.  1655. 

The  fourth  of  April,  1655,  I  Margaret  Hovell  als  Smyth,  wife  of  John  Hovell  als  Smyth 
of  Tannyngton  in  the  Countie  of  Suff :  gent,  make  this  will  with  the  consent  of  my  husband. 
To  John  Borrett  my  brother  and  his  two  daughters;  William  Borrett  my  brother  and  his  children; 
Susan  Grinlinge,  widow,  my  sister  and  her  children  Henry,  Daniel  and  Susan  Grinlinge ;  to  Henry 
Borrett  my  brother  and  Robert  his  sonne ;  to  Symon  Borrett  my  brother  and  his  two  sonnes 
J ohn  and  Thomas  Borrett ;  Elizabeth  Stannard,  widow,  my  sister  and  her  children ;  to  Frances 
Rewse,  widow,  my  sister  and  her  children.  To  Faith  Folkard  wife  of  John  Folkard  twentie 
poundes,  she  to  pay  Anne  Sewell  her  mother,  wife  of  John  Sewell  of  Stradbrooke,  twentie  shillings 
yerely  for  life  and  to  Anne  Man  her  sister,  now  wife  of  John  Man  of  Denham,  Hive  poundes  if 
said  Anne  survive  her  mother.  To  Sara  Botwright  daughter  of  my  sister  Margaret  Botwright  all 
my  goodes  at  her  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeres,  my  nowe  husband  John  Hovell  als  Smyth  to  be 
her  guardian.  To  John  Hovell  als  Smyth  my  sonne  my  mare  colt.  To  Rachell  Hovell  als  Smyth 
my  daughter  a  yonge  mare.  To  my  lovinge  husband  my  clocke  &c.  Symon  Hovell  als  Smyth 
my  brother  in  la  we  sole  executor.  Probation  30  Maij  1663  executori. 

Norwich  Consistory,  Original  Wills,  1663,  No.  46. 


HOVELL  OF  ASHFIELD. 


0 


Hill  of  Wjornas  Hobell  als.  S>mitl),  166$. 

Thomas  Hovell  als  Smith  of  Great  Ashfield,  gent.,  16  Feb.  1668.  To  Francis  Hovell  als 
Smith  my  brother  61  a  year  for  life.  To  Anne  and  Sarah  Hovell  als  Smith  my  nieces  his 
daughtei’s  501  each.  Elizabeth  Gibbons  my  sister  and  John  Pattricke  my  kinsman,  husband  of 
Martha  Gibbons  her  daughter.  Richard  Hovell  ais  Smith  my  brother.  To  Mary  and  Frances 
Wingfield,  daughters  of  Susan  Cabecke  now  wife  of  Thomas  Cabeck,  clerk,  when  twenty  one  the 
sum  of  1001  bequeathed  them  by  Edward  Crosse  their  grandfather.  To  Francis  Hovell  ats 
Smith  my  nephew  son  of  said  brother  Francis  all  my  lands  late  purchased  in  Ashfield.  Robert 
Hovell  ais  Smith  son  of  my  late  brother  Geoi’ge  Hovell  als  Smith  to  be  executor.  To  Anne 
Harvy,  widow,  my  niece,  another  daughter  of  my  sister  Gibbons.  To  William  Crosse  my  nephew, 
son  of  my  sister  Dorothy  Ci’osse,  a  tenement  in  Wolpett.  The  children  of  Elizabeth  Dobbity 
my  late  niece,  another  daughter  of  my  sister  Gibbons,  at  their  ages  of  one  and  twenty  years. 
To  Susan  my  niece,  wife  of  my  said  nephew  Francis  Hovell  als  Smith.  My  brother  Robert 
Hovell  als  Smyth.  Probat.  21  April  1669.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “Edgar,”  fo.  425b. 


Hill  of  Hob nt  lobell  als.  J^mitb,  1672. 

Robert  Hovell  ais  Smith  of  Great  Ashfield,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  the  20th  January  1672.  To 
Francis  Hovell  als  Smith,  gent.,  my  eldest  brother,  and  Anne  and  Sarah  Hovell  als  Smith  his 
daughters,  my  nieces.  To  Robert  Hovell  of  Ipswich,  gent.,  my  nephew.  To  Thomas  Syer,  gent., 
husband  of  Hester  my  niece,  one  other  daughter  of  said  Francis  my  brother.  To  Richard  Hovell 
my  brother  annuity  of  16'  per  ail.  To  Edward  Crosse,  Richai’d  Crosse,  John  Crosse,  William 
Crosse  and  Thomas  Crosse  my  nephews.  To  John  Pattricke,  husband  of  Martha  my  neice  and 
their  children.  John  Theobald  of  Ashfield  my  kinsman.  To  Francis  Hovell  ats  Smith,  gent.,  my 
nephew,  son  of  said  Francis  my  brother  the  messuage  I  dwell  in  and  lands,  late  Robei’t  Hovell 
als  Smith,  gent.,  my  father’s  in  Ashfield  and  Elmswell,  with  remainder,  failing  issue  of  said 
Francis,  to  Robert  als  Smith,  only  son  and  heire  of  George  Hovell  als  Smith  my  late  brother. 
To  said  Francis  Hovell  als  Smith  my  brother,  30*  per  .annum,  to  continue  to  his  wife  Hester 
Hovell  als  Smith,  my  sister  in  law,  if  she  survive  him.  To  Ann  Harvey,  widow,  my  niece, 
daughter  of  Elizabeth  Gibbons  my  late  sister.  To  Elizabeth  Hovell  als  Smith,  relict  of  my  said 
bi'other  Geoi’ge,  and  to  Anne  and  Elizabeth  Hovell  ats  Smith  his  daughters.  To  Samuel  Withered 
my  nephew,  grandchild  of  my  said  brother  Francis,  to  bind  him  apprentice.  Will  of  Thomas 
Hovell  als  Smith,  gent.,  my  late  brother.  Fi’ancis  Hovell  als  Smith  my  said  nephew  to  be  sole 
executor.  Probat.  21  April  1674.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “Read,”  fo.  1 0 1 b. 


Hill  of  Hinton  Hobdl  als.  Smutl),  1680. 

Symon  Hovell  als  Smyth  of  Earle  Stonham  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  8th  June  1680. 
To  Ruth  my  wife  the  lands  I  enjoy  by  her  in  Stowvpland  for  life,  and  after  her  decease  to 
be  disposed  of  according  to  the  will  of  Ruth  Balls  my  daughter  in  law.  To  the  said  Ruth  the 


0* 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


goods  I  gave  her  the  bond  for,  dated  4th  Septr  1657,  on  our  marriage.  To  Symon  Hovell  ats 
Smyth  my  eldest  sonne,  now  Rector  of  Abton  in  Suffolk,  my  houses  and  lands  in  Elmswell  and 
Wetherden,  according  to  the  settlement  I  made  him  vpon  his  marriage.  Unto  John  Smyth  my 
sonne  the  601  I  gave  him  bond  for  vpon  his  marriage.  Ynto  Symon  and  John,  sonnes  of  my 
said  sonne  Symon  Smyth,  at  their  several  ages  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  To  the  five  children 
of  my  sonne  in  law  John  Bruning  of  Mendsham ;  viz1  Symon,  Brice,  Elizabeth,  William  and  Mary. 
To  my  grandchild  Rachel  Blackbourne  when  twenty  one  ffifteene  poundes.  The  remainder  I  give 
to  my  sonne  Symon,  hee  to  be  sole  executor.  And  I  nominate  my  sonne  in  lawe  John  Bruning 
and  William  Gerrard  of  Stowmarkett  to  be  supvisors.  Probatum  secundo  die  Septembris  1681. 

Arch  :  Suffolc  :  Liber  “  King,”  fo :  65. 


Mill  of  JFraitris  IjofaU  als.  S>mitlj,  1691. 

Francis  Hovell  ats  Smith  of  Great  Ashfield  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  gentleman,  4th  Nov. 
1691.  Unto  Robert  Hovell  ats  Smith  my  son  the  messuage  I  dwell  in  named  the  Lea,  late 
the  estate  of  Robert  Hovell  ats  Smith  my  uncle,  together  with  other  lands  in  Ashfield,  Ac.  and 
the  Queen’s  Head  in  Bury  St.  Edmunds  :  he  to  pay  Susan  Hovell  my  daughter  five  hundred 
pounds  at  her  age  of  twenty  one  years  or  day  of  marriage.  Residue  to  Susan  my  wife,  whom 
I  ordain  my  sole  executrix.  Probat.  30  October  1695  jur  Susan  relc  et  execut*. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “Boldero,”  fo.  518b. 


Mill  of  Joint  JfobtU  als.  Smitlj,  1692. 

John  Hovell  alias  Smyth  of  Barham  in  the  County  of  Suffolke,  clerke,  the  one  and  thirtieth 
day  of  May,  1692.  For  that  worldly  estate  which  it  hath  pleased  God  to  bless  me  withall  I 
dispose  thereof  as  followeth.  I  give  unto  John  Hovell  alias  Smyth  my  eldest  son  my  lands 
and  tenements  in  Wetherden,  Creting  All  Sts  and  Tannington,  which  I  formerly  setled  upon  my 
late  wife  his  Mother  as  her  Joynture.  .  I  desire  him  to  enter  into  Priest’s  orders  that  he  may 
be  capable  of  a  Living  and  take  institution  and  induction  into  Barham  Living  in  Suffolk,  which 
if  he  carefully  perform  I  give  him  all  that  estate  in  Aldham,  Hentlesham  and  Emsett  in 
Suffolk,  which  I  lately  bought  of  Mr.  Vesey  of  Aldham.  Unto  my  said  son  John  all  my  lands 
and  tenements  in  Barham,  Brundish,  Swilland,  Hadley  and  Ipswich.  I  give  him  my  term  in 
the  Crown  at  Claydon,  which  is  to  continue  the  life  of  Jane  Alston,  and  my  ffreehold  lands  in 
the  Isle  of  Ely.  But  if  the  said  John  my  son,  by  himself  or  his  guardian  claime  of  my 
Executor  any  account  for  the  rent  which  I  have  received  of  lands  in  Chitesham,  which  were 
given  him  by  his  uncle  Thomas  Fowler,  or  refuse  to  come  into  priests  orders  by  the  time 
that  he  shall  attain  the  age  of  eight  and  twenty  yeares,  then  I  give  all  the  fore  mentioned 
lands  unto  Thomas  my  second  son  and  his  heires.  I  give  full  power  and  authority  to  Robert 
Hovell  ats  Smyth  of  Ipswich,  Cloathier,  my  executor  to  make  sale  of  lands  and  tenements  in 
Strumpshaw  in  the  County  of  Norfolk,  which  I  contracted  for  with  one  John  Brown.  I  give 


HOVELL  OF  ASHFIELD. 


7 


unto  my  youngest  son  Thomas  Hovell  alias  Smyth  and  his  lieires  all  my  lands  and  tenements 
in  Burgh,  Hacheton  and  East  Bergholt ;  also  one  annuity  of  thirty  pounds  until  he  attain  to 
the  age  of  four  and  twenty  yeares.  To  my  daughter  Anne  one  annuity  of  thirty  pounds 
during  the  terme  of  her  natural!  life.  Unto  my  youngest  daughter  Deborah  one  Annuity  of 
thirty  pounds  during  the  terme  of  her  naturall  life.  The  next  presentation  of  the  Living  of 
Read  in  Hertfordshire  to  be  sold  by  mine  Executor.  I  give  the  next  presentation  of  Barham 
unto  Lyonell  Gosnold,  Rector  of  Otley  in  the  said  County  of  Suffolk.  Unto  my  son  John 
Hovell  alias  Smyth  after  the  first  next  right  of  presentation  to  the  Living  of  Barham  (which 
I  have  given  to  Lyonell  Gosnold  aforesaid)  the  perpetual  right  of  patronage  of  the  said  Living. 
I  appoint  my  cosen  Robert  Smyth  of  Ipswich  in  Sl  Nicholas  parish,  my  sole  executor.  I  give 
(him)  one  hundred  pounds  for  his  care  and  paines.  I  nominate  my  very  good  friend  Lyonell 
Gosnold,  ltector  of  Otly,  the  supervisor  of  this  my  will,  requesting  him  yearely  to  consult  with 
my  Executor  about  my  estate.  And  I  will  my  Executor  to  spend  at  such  yearely  meeting 
for  that  purpose,  twenty  shillings. 

Probatum,  fuit  Testamuntu  octavo  die  Augusti  1692,  Juramento  Roberti  Smyth  Executoris. 

Tertio  die  Aprilis,  1707,  cm*  Como  Thom*  Hovell  als  Smith  filio  nraii  noiato  in  Testo 

dicti  Johis  Smith  ats  Hovell  def  ad  adstrand  bona  dci  def . per  dcum  Robertum 

Smith,  Extorem  modo  demortuum  idadstrata  de  bene  Ac.  Jurat  Roberto  Hovell  als  Smith  filio 

et  extore  noiato  in  Testaihto  dicti  Roberti  Smith  Extoris  antedicti . citato  nullo 

modo  comparente.  P.C.C.  153  Fane. 


Will  of  JHohrt  1755. 


Robert  Smith  of  Ashfield  co.  Suffolk,  gentleman,  the  second  day  of  June,  1733  To  be 

interred  in  a  leaden  coffin  in  the  chancell  of  Ashfield  in  an  arched  Vault  to  be  made  for  the 

purpose.  My  Bay  gelding  to  be  lead  after  my  corpse  to  church,  in  morning,  and  immediately 
after  my  ffunerall  is  over  to  be  shott  or  otherwise  putt  to  death.  All  my  messuages,  ffarmes, 
lands,  tenements,  Ac.,  in  Suffolk  to  be  sold  to  pay  my  debts  and  my  father’s,  Mr  Robert 
Smith,  deceased.  To  the  Reverend  Mr  Thomas  Thurloe  my  Brother,  my  dear  sister  Mrs  Elizabeth 
Thurloe,  and  my  Aunt  Mrs  Susan  Thurloe,  ten  pounds  a  piece  to  buy  them  mourning.  To  Mr 
John  Hayward  of  Lavenham  my  half  part  or  share  of  the  great  pond  in  Lavenham  which  was 
given  me  by  my  unkle,  Mr  Nicholas  Thurloe.  Residue  to  my  mother,  Mrs  Anne  Smith,  whom  I 
make  sole  executrix. 

Codicil :  Tavo  marble  stones  to  be  laid  over  my  ffather’s  and  my  grave,  with  inscriptions 
thereon  of  our  respective  ages  Ac.  To  Doctor  Child.  To  the  person  that  shall  shoot  or  kill 

my  Horse,  one  guinea  for  his  trouble.  This  18th  day  of  June,  1733. 

Proved  13th  August,  1733,  by  the  oath  of  Ann  Smith  the  sole  executrix. 

Arch.  Sudb.  “  Clagett  III,”  fo.  418. 


8 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


The  Reverend  Thomas  Thurlow,  testator’s  brother  in  law,  was  the  husband  of  Elizabeth 
Smith  ats  Hovell,  testator’s  sister,  and  the  father  of  Edward  Thurlow,  afterwards  Lord  Chancellor 
of  England.  Susan  Thurlow,  the  aunt,  was  widow  of  the  Rev.  Nicholas  Thurlow,  Vicar  of 
Brent  Eleigh,  whose  will  had  been  proved  at  Norwich  on  the  22‘*  of  January  1 73|,  and  sister 
of  Robert  Smith  ats  Hovell,  testator’s  father.  The  marble  stones  bequeathed  by  the  testator 
still  paved  the  sanctuary  in  Ashfield  church  when  Davy  visited  the  place  in  the  earlier  years 
of  the  nineteenth  century. 


Mill  of  Ikimt  Untttl),  1739. 

Anne  Smith  of  Ashfield,  widow,  7th  June,  1739.  To  be  buried  in  Ashfield  chancel  near 
my  dear  son  Robert  Smith.  My  lockets  Ac.  to  my  niece  Mrs  Elizabeth  Pennington,  daughter  of 
my  brother  Torkington.  To  Anne,  daughter  of  my  nephew  the  Rev.  Mr  James  Torkington.  To 
my  grandson  Edward  Thurlow,  eldest  son  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Thomas  Thurlow  of  Forncett  in 
Norfolk.  My  willgreen  stone  and  my  diamond  to  my  nephew  Mr  William  Torkington  of 
Huntingdon.  The  Rev.  Mr  John  Casborne  of  Charswell  to  be  my  Executor.  There  are  two 
Codicils,  the  second  being  dated  24th  Jan.  1743.  Probate  19th  Feb.  1745. 

Arch.  Sudb.  “  Clagett  VI,”  fo.  204. 


Mill  of  Jltaro  torkington,  1693. 

Mary  Torkington  of  Brettenham  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  widow,  10th  May  1693.  To 
my  daughter  Elizabeth  Torkington  my  ffarme  called  Keeler’s  Rick-a-downe  in  Helmsted  and 
Wyvenhoe  co.  Essex,  and  houses  in  Colchester  ;  also  a  ffarme  and  woods  -in  Much  and  Little 

Bromley,  and  a  ffarme  called  Badly  Hall  in  Ardley.  To  my  son  James  Torkington  Esq.,  my 

daughter  Mary  Torkington  his  wife,  and  my  granddaughter  Mary  Torkington  their  daughter  when 
sixteen  years  of  age.  To  my  youngest  daughter  Anne  Torkington  my  farme  in  Cornard  co. 
Suffolk  which  was  to  be  settled  on  her,  and  a  water  mill ;  also  my  house  at  Hadley  in  the 
said  county.  My  godchild  Nicholas  Thurlow.  A  gravestone  to  be  placed  on  me  and  my  late 

husband.  My  daughter  Elizabeth  to  be  sole  executrix.  Probate  20th  February  1696  to  Elizabeth 

Torkington  the  executrix.  P.C.C.  41  Pyne. 

The  testatrix  was  widow  and  executrix  of  Robert  Torkington  of  Brettenham,  gent.  Mary 
her  eldest  daughter  married  her  cousin  James  Torkington  of  Stewkeley,  co  Hunt.,  one  of  the 
representatives  of  the  fine  old  visitation  family  of  that  place.  Elizabetli  her  second  daughter 
married  the  Rev.  Benjamin  Brundish,  Rector  of  Bildeston  in  Suffolk.  Anne  the  youngest  daughter,, 
whose  will  is  given  above,  married  Robert  Smith  (ats  Hovell)  of  Ashfield. 

Mary  Torkington  the  testatrix  was  daughter  and  heir  of  William  Gilbert  Esq.  of  Colchester, 
whilst  her  husband’s  mother  was  daughter  of  Ambrose  Gilbert  of  that  town.  Through  their 
ancestress  Jane  Wingfield,  daughter  of  Robert  Wingfield  of  Brantham,  these  ladies  derived  from 
King  Edward  the  First  and  the  Fitz-Alan’s.  The  steps  of  this  descent  are  given  in  Burke’» 
Royal  Descents,  in  the  section  relating  to  Lord  Thurlow. 


HOVELL  OF  ASH  FI  ELD. 


i) 


ikbtgm,  Dobell  of  Canblcr  M§s>& 


Houel  als.  Hubert  Smith  of  the  Len—MiroMe  daughter  of  Robert  Kiui/ppe  of 


of  Ashficld  in  Blackborne  hu  ndred 
in  S'lijf. 


Richard  Houel  til*. 
Smith,  S.P. 


Edmund  Smith 
of  Ipswich. 


Samuel  Smith , 
S.P. 


Needham  fond  of)  Margaret  daughter 
of  Edrn't  Poley  of  Radley  Esqr. 


....  married  to  John 
Baker  of  Ashfield. 


Lydia  married  to  George  Moody 
of  Moulton. 


Robert  Howl  ills.  Smith 
of  Walsham.  , 


Thomas  Smith  of  Ashfield.  (had  a  daughter)  Hannah  Smith  married 
to  John  Wilkenson  Vicar  of  Old  Newton,  Mr  in  Arts. 


John  Houel  als.  Sm it h=F Rachel, 


of  Wetherden. 


i - i — i - 

Robert  Thomas  Smith  George  Smith 

Smith  a  Phisitian.  a  clothier  in 

of  Ash-  —  Ipswich, 

field.  RichardStn  ith . 


- 1 - 1 - ; - ; — - 1 - ; - 1 - - - 1 

Frances  .  .  .  married  to  Guibon  a  schol-  .  .  .  married  to  ....  mar-  .  .  .  mar- 

Smith  a  lar  (a  schole  mr  his  son  Charles  William  Keble  ried  to  ried  to 

draper  was  beheaded  (sic)  at.Mr  Love.  Rector  of  Ring-  Crosse  of  Ames  of 

inBnry.  So  Tanner  MS.  180.)  shall,  B.  1).  Woolpet.  Ashfield.. 


r 


Martha  Smith  Elyzabeth  married  to  John.  Hawes 
married  to  for  Hawys)  i)'  after  his  death  to 
IF"1  Ba  rnes.  Henry  Cornells  tena  n  t  to  Sr  Edm'1 
Bacon  in  Wyuerston  Parke. 


Ola ne  Smith  mar¬ 
ried  to  Edward 
Goodwgn  of  We¬ 
therden 


Mary  Smith  married.  Rachel,  married  William 
to  Andrew  Kilborne  of  to  William  Gar-  Smith, 
Wetherden,  son  of  Wm  rani  of  Stoic-  S.P. 
Kilborne,  rectorthere.  market. 


daughter 
of  Wm 
Woodcocke 
then  of 
Yoxford. 


Margaret  Stokes  the=f=John  Houil— Margaret  Bor  ret  the  relict 
relict  of  IF"*  Yorke  als.  Smith.  of  Robert  Applcyard  ( Ap - 
of  Burgh.  pleton.  Harl.  MS.  6071.) 


Elizabeth .  eldest=pSimon  Hovel 


daugh  ter  of  Ro¬ 
bert  Bloomfield. 


als.  Smith. 


-Ruth,  widow  of  Ball 
of  Wetherden. 


John  Hovel 
als.  Smith. 


Penelope  dan  ght'  of = John  Smith,  Vicar- 
Thorn  :  Horsma’  of  Ashbockivg:  Ilec- 


Rector  of  Barrow 
Apton  in  Norf :  pi 
wife,  S.P. 


tor  Barg  ham  :  he. 
married  to  Penel¬ 
ope  Horsma  n. 


= Elizabeth  daught’  of 
Wm  Gasely  of  Nor- 
wich,  2  wife.  One 
daughter  Elizabeth 
Honell  als.  Smith. 


Rachel  Smith  married 
to  John  Goltie  youngest 
sone  of  Richard.  Goltie 
Rector  of  FramUng- 
ha  m . 


Simon,  a 
Mr  in  Arts, 
sometimes 
m  inister  at 
Saxted. 


Elizabeth 
married  to 
John  Brown¬ 
ing  of  Men- 
dlesham. 


Rachel,  mar¬ 
ried  to  George 
Blackborne, 
ofThurston. 


- 1 

John 

Hove 

als. 

Smith. 


Harl.  MS.  6071,  pp.  614,  515,  collated  with  Tanner  MS.  180,  pp.  92,  93. 


iktugree,  Dobell  als.  §5>mtt|)  of  &sl)fielb,  1612. 

John  ifovell  alias  Smith  of  Ashfield  co.  Sufi.  Gent,  mar:  <(  had  issue,— Thomas,  who 
■mar  :  &  had  issue, — Robert. 

Robert  Hovell  alias  Smith,  son  &  heir  of  Thomas,  mar :  Mirabel,  da :  of  Edmund  Knapp 
of  Needham,  co.  Sufi' :  and  had  issue, — Robert,  son  and  heir;  John,  second  son;  Thomas,  third 
son;  Richard,  fourth  son;  William,  ob.  ;  Edmond,  fifth  son;  Samuel,  ob. ;  Elizabeth,  wife  to  John 
Baker  of  Ashfield ;  Lidda,  ivife  to  George  Moody  of  Moulton. 

Robert  Hovell  of  Ashfield,  High,  Constable,  son  and  heir  of  Robert,  mar :  Elizabeth,  da.  of 
George  Hunt  of  Brad  field,  co.  Sufi:  and  had  issue, — Robert,  son  and  heir;  Thomas,  second  son; 
William,  third  son;  Edmond,  fourth  son;  Francis,  fifth  son;  Richard,  sixth  son;  George,  seventh 
son ;  Elizabeth  ;  Susan ;  Dorothe ;  Lidda ;  Margaret. 

Camden’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  College  of  Arras. 

C 


10 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


iJebtgrer,  Dobell  of  i)ad.  1108. 

The  true  <fc  Auncient  Discent  of  the  wor'pfull  ffamilie  of  the  Hovel/s  Deduced  from  the  bodye  of  Richarde 


Hovell  tvhoe  lived  in  the  tyme  of  Hen :  ye  and 


was 


Esquire  to  the  Bodye  of  lien :  5th  And  dyed  in 


ye-  3d  yeare  of  the  Raigne  of  K :  Hen  :  6th.  11 ee  was  owner  of  Divers  Lands  Lyeinge  in  RickkingeyaU  Magna 
in  The  county  e  of  Suffolk?.,  <fj  in  Ashefeilde,  in  Stowlanton,  in  Bad  well  Ashe,  and  in  Walsliani  in  ye  Willowes ; 
As  evidentlye  is  to  be  proved,  By  certaine  Evidences,  Remayninge  in  the  hands  of  the  Ileires  of  if-  Elder  house 
from  ye  which  said  Richard  is  descended  Lyneallye.  Richard  Hovell  of  Flytcham  in  the  countye  of  Norfolke 
Esquire  now  Liueinge.  An 0  1613. 


In  Ryckingale  Church  in  Stiff. 

Hie  iacet  Willin’ s  Houell  Anniger,fil 
ft  lucres  Rici  Houelt,  qui  Willm’sob’ 
19  die  SeptemV,  a«  1492  Sf  vx’  eius 
Beatrix  fil.  Johis  Thorp  militis  quee 
obijt  Hi  die  Maij  an  1466.  quoru’ 
aiab’  ppcietur  Dcus.  Amen. 

In  Lopham  Chansell. 

Orate  p’  aiab’  Will’ mi  Hovell  de 
Ashfeild  Arm’  8f  Elizabethe  vx.  eius 
qjii  quidem  Willm’s  ob’.  7  die  Julij 
a°  dni’  1534  quoru’  aiabz  ppicietur 
devs.  Amen. 


Richard  Hovell  of  Riclcingale  in  Coin’  Stiff.  Esqr- =j= 
died  a1  3  H.  6.  :  Tpe  II.  4  Esq’  of  q?  Body  to  I 
K II.  5. 

, _ _ _ i 


Drawing  ok  Arms:—  Hovell,  Sa., a  crescent 
Or,  quartering  Harsick  and  Foorde. 
Crest  : — A  sea  lion  sejant  Ermine. 


William  Hovel!  of  Riclcingale  inagna  in  Com’  -^Beatrix  dan  A  of  S1'  John  'Thorp  of  Thorp  iuxta 
Stiff.  esqr  son  f  he  ire  lived  a°  23  E.  4  :  ob.  19  I  Ashwell  in  Com’  Norf.  Kt :  b.  3  crescent  A  :  nb  : 
Sept :  1492.  I  11  May  1466. 


William  Houell  of  Ashfeild  in  Com.  Suff.  son  8f=pFrancisca  filia  Arthur  i  Hopton  of  Westwood  in  Co  : 
he  ire,  lived  17.  H.  7.  Stiff.  Kt  8f  widow  of  Sr  Tho  :  Neti.il e  Kt.  ermine,  on 

I  2  bares  sa.  6  mullets  or. 


William  Hovell  of  Ashfeild  in  Com’  Stiff.  liued-j-Elizabeth  eldest  da  :  8f  coheire  of  Rowland  Harsick 
a»  21  II.  8.  1530  :  ob  :  7  Julij  1534.  I  of  Lopham  Esqr. 


William  Houell  of  Ashfeild^ Anne.  2.  cla.  of  Tho  :  Gawdy  of  Harleston  by 
Co  :  Stiff,  son  f  heire.  I  Anne  Bassingborne  bis  2d  wife. 


of  Ashfeild  son 
Sf  heire. 


fMcrabell  da.  of 

2.  William^ Anne  d.  of  Ric  Turner  of 

3.  John  7=- 

Edmund  Knap 

Houell  of  Hally 

Norton  in  Stiff.  Ermine 

Howell  of  1 

of  Nedliam  in 

in  Co:  Stiff.  2. 

a  pi.  croix  sa. voided  there- 

Badwell 

Com’  Stiff,  gent. 

son . 

on  4  (mill rinds)  or. 

Ashe. 

Christian 
tla  :  of  Robert 
Cooke  of  Bad- 
well  Ashe. 


4.  Hugh  Hotv- 
ell  dwelt  at 
Neyland  died 

s.p. 


Jane  marled  to 
Robt.  Coolce  of 
Badwell  Ash  in 
Co:  Stiff,  gent} 


Robert  Houell 


-  — i — r_ 
John  .  2. 


~i — i 


Will’m.  s.p.  Elizabetha  Richard  Houell^f-Margery.  3.  da:  §T  Willm  John  Hon  ill  Christian  wife 


of  Ashfeild 

mar:  Eliz.  da:  Thomas.  3. 

of  George 

Hunt. 

8f  1.  of  Stratford 

Samuell,  s.p.  Lidia.  in  Suff.  Sj  last- 

lie  of  Flickham 
in  Norf.  Esq tf . 
1578. 

coheire  of  John 
Foorde  of  Horsley 

Iff  of  Frayting  in 
Com.  Essex.  Ar.  a 
wolf  sal.  sab. 

IIoucll  of 
Badwell 
mar.  da  : 
of  Timers. 

2.  son,  mar :  to  Hobart  of 
da.  of  Lyte-  Waldingfeild 
foote  of  Lon-  pva’  in  Suff. 
don . 

f 

Katherin.  1  mar  :  to  Francis 
Eiske  of  Binham.  2.  to  Ed¬ 
ward  Mordant.  3.  to  Alex¬ 
ander  Dering  of  Kent. 

~J~  “T" 

Elizabeth,  mar:  Thomazin,  mar: 

to  Th  o  :  Russell  to  Wm  Bar  nes  of 

of  Rttdham  in  Soa.m  in  Camb’ 

Norf.  Esq1'. 

1 

Bridget  mar  .-  to 
William  Mothe 
of  King’s  Lynne 
in  Norff.  gen’. 

Margaret  mar:  to 
Rafe  de  la  Hay 
of  King’s  Lynne 
in,  Norff.  gen’. 

r 

Mary,  mar’  to 
IFm  Gooding 
of  Mosford,  in 
Com.  Stiff,  gent. 

Mar¬ 

gery. 

I 

Richard  Houell  of  Hellington  in=j=  Frances  youngest  danr *  of  Tho  : 
Com ’  Norf.  Esqr.  1  St  Mary  in  Suff.  Esq. 

i  . 

Fernley  of  Creting 

2.  William. 

3.  Anthony. 

Richard  Houell,  son,  heire,  Esq''.=pDorothey  eldest  danr  of  Sr 


Knighted  by  King  Charles  the  26‘h 
of  March  1641. 


Tho:  Chichley  of  Wymple 
in  Com’  Camb’r  Kt. 


Willm.  2.  Frances  Howell  tnaried  to  Edward 

Gurney  of  East  Basham  in  Com’ 
Thomas.  3.  Norf.  Esqr. 


Richard  ob’.  s.p. 
at  six  months. 


William  Hovell  Esq :  sonne  Thomas  Jane 

and  Heire  apparent.  Houell.  ob.  s.p. 


T 


Dorothy. 


- r_i — I  l 

“  Richard,,  s.p.,  .{frauds,  ob  :  s.p.,  Henry,  ob  :  s.p. 
8f  ffrancis  ”  have  been  added  in  another  hand. 

Ri  :  8*  George,  Clarenceux  King  of  Amies. 

Hen  :  S<  George,  Richmond. 


1  On.,  an  inescutcheon  Ar.  betw.  4  crosses  formee  fitchee  in  saltire  Or. 


HOVELL  OF  ASH  FI  ELD. 


11 


This  pedigree,  of  which  variants  exist  at  the  College  of  Arms,  is  referred  to  by  Sir 
Edward  Bysshe  in  his  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1661 ;  but  it  is  full  of  mis-statements,  and  save 
when  corroborated  by  other  testimony,  doubtful  throughout.  William  Smyth,  otherwise  called 
Ilovell,  the  grandfather  of  Richard  Hovell  of  Stratford,  died,  an  old  man,  in  1510.  (See  Hovell 
ok  Haugitlev.)  The  Gawdy  wills  and  pedigrees  are  alike  silent  respecting  Anne  Gawdy,  his 
supposed  wife,  the  daughter  of  Anne  Bassingborne.  If  she  ever  existed  she  lived  a  generation 
later  than  her  husband,  for  her  brother,  Thomas  Gawdy,  and  sister,  Katherine  Everard,  were 

still  alive  in  1581.  There  was,  indeed,  an  Anne  Gawdy,  who  did  marry  ....  Hovell  ats 

Smyth.  But  she  was  grand-daugliter  to  Anne  Bassingborne  and  is  one  of  the  devisees  of  Honor 

Gawdy  her  mother,  in  her-  will,  dated  25  May  1601,  now  in  the  Probate  Registry  at  Ipswich. 

Robert  Hovell  ats  Smyth,  the  husband  of  Mirabel  Knapp,  so  far  from  being  the  heir  of 
William  Hovell  and  the  mythical  Anne  Gawdy,  was,  as  his  widow  and  children  testified  officially 
in  1612,  the  son  of  a  Thomas  Hovell  ats  Smyth,  and  the  grandson  of  John  Hovell  ats  Smyth. 
(Camden’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  College  of  Arms.)  Besides,  he  lived  two  generations  later  than  the 
parents  assigned  him  in  the  pedigree. 

We  read  again  of  Hugh  Hovell,  the  4th  son  of  Anne  Gawdy,  who  dwelt  at  Nayland, 

and  died  sine  prole.  The  wills  and  evidences  ignore  him.  Hugh  Hovell,  the  grandson  of 

William  Smyth,  otherwise  Hovell,  died  at  Haughley  in  1597,  leaving  a  wife  and  a  brood  of 

children  behind  him. 

There  are  other  slips ;  “  Christian,”  for  example,  “  Wife  to  Hobart  of  Waldingfield,” 
married  quite  another  man,  John  Sharpe  of  Norton.  It  was  her  sister,  Marian  Smyth,  who 
became  the  wife  of  William  Hubbard.  See  Hovell  of  Badwell. 

And  what  shall  we  say  respecting  the  mysterious  William  Hovell  who  is  said  to  have 
married  Elizabeth  Harsick  1  He  made  no  will,  paid  no  subsidies,  bought  or  sold  no  lands. 

His  very  existence  is  as  yet  unproven.  The  inscription  of  1535,  formerly  in  Lopharn  chancel, 
according  to  Blomefield, 1  who  had  never  seen  it,  but  quotes  from  Le  Neve’s  Collections,  is  to 
the  memory  of  a  William  Novell.  There  were  other  Novells  in  Norfolk  at  the  time.  But 

here  again  we  have  a  glimpse  of  that  ignis-fatuus  evidence,  which  the  compiler  of  the  pedigree 
seems  to  have  followed  throughout.  A  William  Smyth  of  Ashfield,  apparently  of  the  Smyth 
ats  Hovell  family,  made  his  will,  now  at  the  Bury  Registry,  in  1545,  leaving  house  and  lands  at 
Lopham  in  Norfolk.  It  would  seem  from  faded  indications  in  the  Register  Book  called  Longe 
to  have  been  copied  officially,  a  proof  that  it  had  attracted  the  attention,  years  ago,  of  some 
forgotten  lawyer  or  genealogist.  The  following  is  an  abstract : — 

“The  viij  daye  of  June,  1545,  I,  Wiltm  Smyth  of  Lyttle  Ashfeild,  otherwise  called  Badwell 
ashe,  in  the  Countie  of  Suffie  yeoman  make  my  laste  will.  I  bequeathe  to  Robarde  my  sonne  & 
his  lieyres  my  house  A  lande  in  little  Ashfeild  &  greate  Ashfeild  at  his  age  of  xxiiij  yeares,  he 
then  to  have  yt  peaceably.  If  he  fortune  to  dye  wthowte  yssue  said  landes  to  remayne  to  my 
daughters  equally.  I  give  my  house  &  lande,  free  &  coppie,  in  Loppam  in  the  Countie  of  Norfolke 
to  Margarett  my  doughter  at  her  age  of  xxtie  jTeares.  Robarte  my  sonne  to  go  to  schole  tyll  he 
can  both  wryte  &  reade.  To  my  daughters  Alice  &  Marion  twentye  markes  a  pece  «kc.  To  the 
mendynge  of  the  Slowe  at  Porland  gate.  To  Robarte  Smyth,  Arthure  my  neve’s  child.  To  Richearde 
my  nevewe  a  cowe.  Executors  Robarte  Smyth  A  John  Gayford.  Probat  vij°  die  Julij  1545.” 


C“ 


1  Blomefield,  octavo  edition,  vol.  i,  p.  232, 


12 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


iielHQree,  Dobell  als.  gbmttl)  of  ^slifidb. 


John  Hovel]  als.  Smith  of  Ashfield,  Camden'*  Visitation  of  Suffolk ,=j= 
Living  there  15  H.  8,  1523.  Lay  Subsidy  180,  176. 


Thomas  Hovell  als.  Smith  Camden,  living  circa  1545; 
8  Eliz.  1566.  Lay  Subsidy  182,  359. 


had  lands  in  Aslifield- 


_ l 


Robert  Hovell  als.  Smith  of  Ashfield,  Suffolk,  paid  Subsidies3 
1566,  1576,  1581,  &e. ;  made  will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  4  Juno  1602,  proved 
5  Oct.  1610.  Lands  in  Ashfield,  Bardwell,  Elmswell,  Ixworth, 
Wetherden,  &c.,  &c. ;  wood  called  Ashfield  Park.  Not  yet  married 
1563.  Bought  lands  in  Stanton  and  Bardwell,  1571  and  1573. 


Richard  Hovell  als.  Smith, 
4th  son,  of  Wetherden,  co. 
SuS.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  12 
April  1632,  proved.  1 6  April 
1641  ;  ob.  s.p.  bequests  to 
nephews  &  nieces. 


William,  s.p. 
Camden,  not 
named  in  his 
parents’  wills; 
evidently 
died  young. 


Edmund  Hovell  als.  Smith 
of  Ipswich,  clothier,  5th 
son  ;  had  five  children  by 
Elizabeth  his  wife,  Robert, 
Elizabeth,  Mary,  Abigail, 
and  Lydia.  Will,  P.CC.  94 
St.  John,  16  July,  1631. 


=Mirabel,  dau.  of  Robert  Knapp  of  Needham  Market  (who 
names  her  in  his  will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  7  Sept.  1563),  by 
Margaret,  dau.  of  Edmund  Polev  of  Badley  and  Mirabel 
Gurneys,  his  wife.  Her  will,  Arch.  Snbd.,  dated  5  April 
1631,  was  proved  22  January  following. 

- 1 

Lydia,  wife  of  George 
Moody  of  Moulton,  co. 
Sutf.  His  will,  P.C.C.  61 


Samuel  Hovell 
als. Smith  of  Ips¬ 
wich,  6th  son. 
Will  P.C.C.  50 
Wood,  proved  1 2 
Junel  61 1  ,ob.s.p. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of 
John  Baker  of 
Ashfield  ;  had 
seven  children, 
1631,  and  was 
then  a  widow. 


Bowyer,  20  Feb.  1651, 
names  Richd.  Hovell  of 
Ashfield  and  Francis 
Hovell. 


Robert  Hovell  als.  Smith  of  Wal-3^ Elizabeth,  dau.  John  Hovell  als.  Smithy3 Rachel,  dau. 


sham  le  Willowes,  gent.,  eldest  son ; 
bought  land  there  by  Fine  1590 
and  1591.  High  Constable  of  Suff. 
1612.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  6  Nov. 
1611,  proved  1615. 


of  Geo.  Hunt  of  Wetherden,  co.  Suf-  of  William 
of  Bradfield  folk,  2d  son.  Will,  Arch.  Woodcock  of 
St.  George,  co.  Sudb.,  23  Feb.  1638,  Yoxford. 
Suffolk.  proved  18  March  follow-  Candler  MSS. 

i’lS-  A 

Pedigree  A. 


Thomas  Hovell  als.  Smith  of  Ashfield,  fid 
son,  married  and  had  issue.  His  daughters, 
Elizabeth,  Deborah  and  Hannah,  are  named 
1631  in  his  mother’s  will.  Hannah  married 
John  Wilkensou,  M.  A.,  Vicar  of  Old  Newton 
in  Suffolk.  Candler  MSS. 


Robert  Hovell  als.  Smith  eldest 
son,  of  Ashfield,  gent. ;  entered 
ped.  in  Suffolk  Visitn.  1664. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  20  Jan.  1672, 
prob.  1674 ;  ob.  s.p.  Estates 
to  Frances  Hovell  and  his  son, 
Francis. 


Thomas  Hovell 
als.  Smith  of 
Ashfield,  gent., a 
physician,  Cand¬ 
ler  ;  ob.  s.p. Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  16 
Feb.  1 668,  prob. 
21  April  1669. 


William  Hovell  als. 
Smith  fid  son; 

Edmond  Hovell  als. 
Smith,  4th  son. 

Richard,  6th  son. 
Admon.,  May  1675. 


Elizabeth,  m.  Mr. 
Gibbon,  a  school 
master ;  had  son 
Charles  Gibbon, 
Candler.  She  was 
Elizabeth  Gibbon, 
w°,  in  1631.  Had 
dau. ,  Au  ne  II  a  rvoy . 


Susan,  mar.  William 
Keble,  15.1).,  Rector 
of  Ringshall,  co.Suff., 
who  made  will, P.C.C. 
132  Nabbs,  5  Oct. 
1 659,  naming  Tlios. 
Smith  als.  Hovell  his 
exor. 


Dorothy,  mar.  to 
Richard  Crosse 
of  Woolpit,  who 
made  will,  P.C.C. 
447 Pell.,  II  April 
1 659  ;  prob.  to  re¬ 
lict  1 1  Aug.  fol¬ 
lowing;  had  issue. 


Francis  Hovell  als.  Smith  of  Ash-^pHester. 
field,  gent.,  5th  son,  devisee  of  I 
Thomas  Hovell,  his  brother,  1668,  I 
and  of  Robert  Hovell,  his  brother,  | 

1672. 

i 


.  .  .  mar.  John  Ames  of 
Ashfield,  whom  Richard 
Crosse  names  as  brother- 
in-law  in  his  will  1659  ; 
had  issue. 


Lydia  and  Margaret, 
youngest  dans.  1612 ; 
one  of  them  mar. 
John  Ames. 


George  Hovell  als.- 
Smitli  of  Ipswich, 
clothier,  7th  son ; 
dead  in  1672. 


Elizabeth,  his 
widow,  living 
1672. 


Francis  Hovell  als.  Smith, =f=  SusanChamber- 


lieir  to  Thomas  Hovell,  his 
uncle,  1668,  and  to  Robert 
Hovell  his  uncle,  who  left 
him  the  Lea  in  Ashfield 
1672.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  14 
Nov.  1691 ;  probt.  1695. 


lain  of  Drink- 
stone  co.  Suf¬ 
folk  ;  married 
there  24  Jan. 
1663. 


- 1 - 

.  .  a  dau., 

mar.  .  .  . 

Withered, 

it  had  son 

Samuel 

Withered, 

1672. 


—  TT - - - 

Anne  &  Sarah, 
devisees  of  Ro¬ 
bert  Hovell  als. 
Smith,  their 
uncle,  1672. 


- 1 

Hester,  wife 
of  Thomas 
Syer,  gent., 
1672;  named 
in  will  of  Ro¬ 
bert  Hovell 
als.  Smith. 


Elizabeth  and 
Anne,  devisees 
of  Robert  Ho¬ 
vell  als.  Smith, 
their  uncle, 
1672. 


L 


Robert  Hovel  als.  Smith,  only  =p  Anne,  dau.  of  Robert  Torkington 
son,  adopted  the  name  of  Smith  1  of  Brettenham,  co.  Suffolk,  gent., 
only;  born  1673,  died  13  April  |  by  Mary  his  wife,  dau.  of  John  Gil- 
1724,  aged  51.  M.I.  in  Ashfield  |  bert,  Esq.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  7 
chancel.  '  June  1739,  proved  19  Feb.  1745,  to 

I  be  bur.  in  Ashfield  chancel. 


Susan,  under  age  1691,  mar. 
Nicholas  Thurlow,  Vicar  of 
Brent  Eleigh,  co.  Suffolk, 
and  ob.  s.p.  His  will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  was  proved  22 
Jan.  1721. 


Robert  Ilovell als.  Smith=j=. 
of  Ipswich,  gent.,  only  I 
son;  devisee  1672  of 
Robt.  Hovell  als.  Smith; 
exor.  of  John  Hovell  als. 
Smith  of  Barham,  elk., 
his  cousin,  1692. 

Robert  Hovell  als  Smith,  ex¬ 
ecutor  to  his  father,  living 
1707  ;  named  in  filial  ad¬ 
ministration  of  John  Hovell 
of  Barham,  clerk,  P.C.C.  153 
Fane.  See  Pedigree  A. 


Robert  Smith  of  Ashfield,  gent.  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  2  June  1733,  proved  13  Aug.  following ; 
ob.  s.p.  M.I.  in  Ashfield  chancel ;  b.  1710,  d. 
12  Aug.  1733. 


Elizabeth  Smith  als.  =p Rev.  Thomas  Thurlow, 


Hovell,  heir  to  her 
brother ;  mar.  1 0  Dec. 
1730. 


Rector  of  Ashfield  ;  b. 
1694  ;  was  of  Forneott, 
co.  Norfolk,  in  1739. 


Susan  Smith  of  Ashfield  ;  made  will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  21  March  1724,  leaving  all  to 
Elizabeth  her  sister;  prohat.  29  Oct.  1725. 


Edward  Thurlow,  1st  Baron  Thurlow,  b. 
1732;  Lord  High  Chancellor  of  England 
1778;  created  Baron  Thurlow  of  Ashfield 
same  year,  Baron  Thurlow  of  Thurlow 
1792;  died  unm.  12  Sept.  1806. 


Thomas  Thurlow,  D.D.,  2d  son,: 
Bishop  of  Durham,  died  1791. 
His  son,  Edward  Hovell  Thur¬ 
low,  b.  1781,  succeeded  his  uncle 
as  2d  Baron  Thurlow. 


=Anne,  dau.  John  Thurlow,  3d  son,  merehant=p.Josepha,  dau.  of 
of  William  and  Alderman  of  Norwich,  d.  John  Morse  of 
Bcere,  d.  17  1782,  leaving  an  only  son,  the  Norwich;  d.  10 

Aug.  1791.  Rev.  Edward  South  Thurlow,  Dec.  1786. 
Prebendary  of  Norwich.  ^ 


Edward  Hovell,  second  Baron  Thurlow,  received  the  Royal  Licence  to  change  his  name  to  Hovell-Thurlow,  in  1814. 


HOVELL  OF  ASH  FI  ELD. 


13 


iPebtgree  8.  Hobdl  als.  of  IS&etlier&en. 


Robert  Hovell  ills.  Smith  of  Aslifteld  Magna,  eo.  Suffolk.=p  Mirabel,  dan.  of  Robert  Knapp  of  Needham  Market. 


Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  4  .June  1002,  proved  5  Oct.  1610 ;  not 
yet  married  1563.  Lands  in  Ashfield,  Bard  well,  Elms- 
well,  Ixwortli,  Stanton,  Wotherden,  &c. 


by  Margaret,  dan.  of  Edmund  Foley  of  Badley  and 
Mirabel  Gurneys,  his  wife.  Her  will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
5  April  1631,  was  proved  22  Jan.  following. 


Robert  Hovell  als.  Smitlwp  Elizabeth,  dau. 


of  Walsham  le  Willows, 
gent.,  eldest  son.  High 
Constable  of  Suffolk.  Will 
(5  Nov.  101 1,  proved  1615. 


of  Geo.  Hunt 
of  Bradfield, 
eo.  Suffolk. 


John  Hovell  als.  Smith  of- 
Wetlierden  in  com.  Suf¬ 
folk,  2d  son.  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.  20  Feb.  1 038,  proved 
18  March  following. 


/N 


Rachel,  dau.  of 
William  Wood¬ 
cock  of  Yoxford, 
eo.  Suffolk, 
Candler. 


Thomas, 
3d  son. 

Richard, 
4th  son. 


Edmond, 
5th  sou. 

Samuel, 
0th  son. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of  Johu 
Baker  of  Ashfield. 

Lydia,  wife  of  George 
Moody  of  Moulton. 


Martha,  mar.  Wil¬ 
liam  Barnes,  nam¬ 
ed,  1053,  in  the 
will  of  Olive  Good- 
wyn,  her  sister. 


Elizabeth,  mar.,  1 , 
John  Hawes  and, 
2,  Henry  Cousens. 
Was  Elizabeth 
Cousens  in  1653. 


Olive,  mar.  Edwd.  Goodwyn 
of  AV etherden.  She  made  will 
as  Oliver  Goodwyn,  widow, 
P.C.C.  401  Aylett,  29  July 
1053,  naming  her  brothers 
and  sisters. 


Mary,  mar.  Andrew  Kilborne, 
son  of  William  Kilborne,  Rec¬ 
tor  of  Wetherden ;  mar.atWy- 
vorstone,  1030;  buried  there, 
1650.  She  was  dead  in  1053, 
leaving  issue. 


Rachel  mar.  Wil¬ 
liam  Garrard  of 
Stowmarket,  14 
Oct.  1044,  at  Wy- 
verstone ;  she  was 
living  in  1653. 


- 1 

Wm.  Smith 
als.  Hovell ; 
not  named 
in  Olive 
Goodwyn’s 
will. 


William  A7orke= 
of  i  Burgh,  co. 
Suffolk,  dead 
before  13  Oct. 
1634.  First 
husband. 


Margaret  Stokes,  niece- 
of  Thomas  Humfrey  of 
Grauesden,co.  Lincoln, 
clerk,  who  names  her 
and  Humfrey  Yorke, 
her  son,  in  his  will, 
P.C.C.  68  Sadler,  13 
Oct.  1634. 


Humphrey  Yorke. 


Rachel,  mar.  to  John  Goltie,  y  oungest 
son  of  Richard  Goltie,  Rector  of  Fram  - 
lingham.  John  Goltie,  gent.,  in  will, 
P.C.C.  121  Duke,  25  Oct.  1609,  left 
all  to  Rachel,  his  dau.,  then  under 
age. 


John  Hovel  als.- 
Smith  of  Tann- 
ington,  in  Suf¬ 
folk,  gent.,  1055; 
sold  lands  in 
Haugliley  and 
AVetherden  to 
MartinSparrow. 


1  Margaret,  sister  of 
John  Borrett  and 
relict  of  Robert 
Applcvard.  Her 
will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  4  April 
1 055,  proved  30 
May  1663,  ob.  s.p. 


Elizabeth,  cldest= 
dau.  of  Robert 
Bloomfield  of  the 
East  End  in  Asp- 
all  Stonham,  who 
made  will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  3  October 
1638. 


f  Simon  Hovell  als.- 
|  Smith  of  Earl 
Stonham.  AVill  8 
March  1680,  Arch. 

I  Sudb.,  proved  2 
Sept.  1681;  lands  in 
Stow  upland, Elms- 
wcll,  Wotherden, 
&c. 


—  Ruth,  widow  of 

. Ball  of* 

AVetherden,  by 
whom  she  had 
dau.,  Ruth  Ball, 
who  made  will, 
in  or  before, 
1680. 


Simon  Hovell  als.  Smith,  M.A.,= 
of  Alpheton,  eo.  Suff.,  clerk. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  29  June  1702, 
proved  24  May  1704.  Lands  in 
Elmswell,  AVetherden,  Fram- 
lingham,  Stonham,  &c. 


Mary  Elizabeth, mar. 

.  .  .  .  John  Browning 
of  Mendlesham 
and  had  five 
children  in 
1680. 


Rachel,  wife  of 
George  Black- 
borne  of  Thur¬ 
ston  ;  had  dau. 
Rachel  Black- 
borne  1080. 


John  Hovell1 
als.  Smith  of 
Stowmarket 
apothecary. 
AVill,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  dated 
1085. 


Mary 

Peach. 

Will, 

Arch. 

Suff., 

prob. 

1683. 


Simon  Hovell  als.  Smith, 
to  whom  his  father  left 
the  advowson  of  Alphe¬ 
ton,  with  many  lauds. 


John  Hovell  als. 
Smith,  inherited 
houses  in  Cret- 
ingham,  1702. 


Samuel  Hovell  als. 
Smith,  to  have 
houses  in  Much 
Holland,  co.  Essex. 


Mary,  wife  of  .  .  , 
Fenu,  to  have  lands 
Pettaugh,  Ac. 


Penelope,  1st  wife,  dau.  and  cob.  of- 
Thomas  Horsman,  Rector  of  Bergli 
Apton,  co.  Norff.,  who  left  her  lands 
in  Creting  in  his  will,  P.C.C.  381 
Pell,  1  Dec.  1654 ;  bur.  at  Barham 
22  Nov.  1607. 


:Joliu  Hovel  als.  Smith,  Vicar  of  Ash-= 
booking  and  after  Rector  of  Barham. 
Entered  pedigree  in  the  A’isitation  of 
Suffolk  1604.  A\rill,  P.C.C.  153 
Fane,  31  May  1092,  proved  8  Aug. 
following;  bur.  at  Barham. 


-Elizabeth,  2d  wife,  dau.  of  William^  Alice  Fowler,  3d  wife 
Gaseley  of  Norwich,  by  whom  a  dau.  j  mar.  at  Barham,  25 
Elizabeth  Hovell  als."  Smith.  She  j  April  1071  ;  bur.  in 
was  bur.  at  Barham  29  March  1069.  1  chancel  of  St.  Micli- 
Hovell  c.  Ouzeley,  Mitford,  lilt,  con-  ael’s,  Cambridge;  ob. 
corns  settlements.  --  Jan.  1081. 


John  Hovell  als.  Smith  of  Ips¬ 
wich,  gent.  AVill,  Arch.  Suff., 
3  Aug.  1694  ;  names  brother, 
Thomas  Hovell,  and  sisters, 
Anne  and  Deborah  ;  bur.  at 
Barham  7  Aug.  1694. 


Thomas  Hovell  als.  Smith,  bapt.  at- 
Barham  21  March  1074;  of  Ips¬ 
wich,  single  man,  1094;  after  of 
Pettaugh,  co.  Suffolk.  Final  admin¬ 
istration  of  his  father’s  will  3  April 
1707. 


John  Hovell  als.  Smith, 
bapt.  at  Pettaugh,  20 
March  1700. 


Temperance, 
bapt.  at  Pet¬ 
taugh,  1701. 


Rachel,  bapt. 
at  Pettaugh, 
1703. 


Deborah, 
bapt.  at  Pet¬ 
taugh,  1705. 


-Temperance.  Anne,  bapt.  at  Barham  4  Oct. 

1077 ;  named  1094  in  her 
brother’s  will ;  mar.  at  Pet¬ 
taugh,  18  June  1700,  John 
Copeman  of  Ipswich. 


Deborah,  bapt.  at 
Barham  2  Oct. 
1081  ;  named, 
1094,  in  her  bro¬ 
ther’s  will. 


AVilliam, 
b.  .1705, 
ob.  inf. 


AVilliam, 
b.  1709, 
ob.  inf. 


Samuel, 
bapt.  at  Pet¬ 
taugh,  1713. 


Grace,  bapt. 
at  Pettaugh, 
1714. 


Simon,  b.  1717 ; 
bur.  the  same 
year. 


obeli  of  JBabtoell  <3161). 


(Mill  of  SHilliam  Plinth.  1540. 

In  dei  noie  Amen:  the  xxvi  daye  of  January?,  m'cccccxl:  I  Wyttm  Smyth  of  moche  Asschefeld 
in  the  countie  of  Sufi:  yoman  do  make  thys  to  be  my  last  wyll  in  forme  here  folowyng. 
ffyrst  I  comend  my  sowle  to  allmyghtie  god  and  unto  the  holy  it  blessed  company  of  or  lady 
saynct  mary  &  all  othur  in  heven,  my  bydy  to  be  buryed  in  holy  sepulture  in  the  churchyard 
of  asshefeld  forseid.  I  gyve  and  bequeth  to  the  churche  of  moche  asschefeld  to  the  may’te- 
naunce  of  god’s  service  there  a  vestement.  My  executors  to  dispose  in  deds  of  charyte  to  pore 
people  for  the  welthe  of  my  soule  at  my  obett  day  yerely  vis  viijd  durynge  the  space  of  x 
yeres. 

I  gyve  and  bequeth  to  Wyttm  my  sonne  my  greate  hutetie,  a  tabvll,  a  presse,  a  pare  of 
malte  quernes,  a  grynstone  &  all  my  ladders.  To  John  my  sonne  all  my  harries.  To  Jone  my 
wyef  all  other  implements  of  houshold  stuff.  (Legacies)  to  Jone  Salter  my  daughter,  Amye 

James  my  daughter  and  Alys  James;  to  Jone  A  Margarett  the  chyldern  of  John  Salter;  to 

Maryon  &  Chrystyan  the  chyldern  of  John  my  sone ;  To  Katheryn,  Rycherd,  Wyttm  it  Hugh 
the  chyldern  of  Wyttm  my  sonne  &  to  Mawte  Warren.  To  the  reparation  of  the  hyghe  wayes 

abowte  moche  asshefeld  xxs.  The  Residue  to  my  executors  John  Smyth  it  Wyttm  my  sonne. 

Adam  Ponder,  clerke,  Symond  Stekyll  and  Roger  Cooke,  witnesses.  Probat  vii  Mar :  1540,  executoribus. 

Arch.  Suclb.  Register  “  Poope,”  fo.  183. 


MtU  of  Joint  ^mttl),  1555. 

The  xxiijth  of  May  in  the  yere  of  ower  Lorde  godd  1553.  I  John  Smyth  of  Bad  well 
make  this  my  last  will.  I  commende  my  soule  to  Allmightie  godd  and  to  all  the  hollie 
Company  of  heven.  I  *geue  and  bequeath  to  John  my  sonne  and  to  his  heires  my  close  lyinge 
in  Shipton  and  Leaton  (Shipdham  and  Letton)  in  the  Countie  of  Norfff,  and  if  the  said  John 
departe  before  he  come  vnto  the  age  of  twentie  and  one  yeres,  Then  I  will  that  Robert  my 
sonne  shall  have  it.  To  William  my  sonne  my  tenement  in  Langham  lately  pchased  of  mays  ter 
John  Plandon  with  all  the  lands  belongeinge,  after  the  decease  of  Christian  my  wiffe.  Vnto 
the  said  Christian  lands  lately  purchased  of  John  Salter  my  brother  in  law,  and  my  copy 
landes  in  Badwell  and  my  meadow  in  Hunston.  And  after  my  wiffe’s  decease  I  give  my 
tenement  that  I  dwell  in  wtu  all  my  landes  and  pastures  in  Badwell  and  Hunston,  lately 
purchased  of  William  Base,  to  Robert  my  sonne.  I  will  that  my  landes  and  tenements  in  Saint 
Andrewe’s  Ilkettsale  be  sold.  I  geue  Marion  my  daughter  an  hundreth  markes  when  she  shall 
come  to  the  age  of  twentie  and  two  yeres.  To  XpTan  my  daughter  an  hundreth  marks  when 
she  shall  also  come  vnto  thage  of  xxijth  yeres.  To  John  my  sonne  and  to  Robert  my  sonne 


HOVELL  OF  BADWELL  ASH. 


1  5 

eeh  an  hundreth  poundes  when  they  shall  come  vnto  the  age  of  twentie  and  one  yere.  To 

Christian  my  wyffe  all  my  horse,  nete,  vtensells,  moveables  and  stuff  of  houshold.  T  ordeyne 
Christian  my  wyffe  and  S1'  John  Cooke,  parson  of  Troston  my  brother  in  law,  executours. 

Probatum  vltimo  die  oetobris  1555  luramento  Christine,  relce  and  executricis.  Resuata  ptate 
Johanni  Cooke  Clico  executori  .  .  .  Cui  quidem  Johanni  Cocke  xx°  die  Augusti  1558  Coinisa 
fuit  similis  Administratio.  P.C.C.  33  More. 

In  her  will,  dated  19  Dec.  1557  (P.C.C.  3G  Noodes),  Christian  Smyth,  the  relict  of  the 
testator,  names  Robert,  John  and  William  her  sons,  Christian  Mylles  and  Marion  Smyth  her 

daughters,  Richard  Myllvs  her  son  in  law,  her  sister  Tumor  and  Avys  Turnor,  and  her  brother 
the  Vicar  of  Haughley.  Sir  Robert  Cooke,  the  Vicar  aforesaid,  who  was  a  collateral  ancestor 
of  the  Visitation  family  of  Cooke  of  Langham,  names  her  and  her  children  in  his  will,  1537, 

which  is  given  verbatim  et  literatim  in  Bury  Wills  and  Inventories,  printed  by  the  Camden 
Society. 


Inquisition  on  tlje  tieatl)  of  Jloljn  Umttlj,  1555. 

lnquisicio  Indentata  capta  apud  Ilotisdale  com  Suff.  vicesimo  die  Oetobris  annis  regno^ 
Phillippi  et  Marie  Anglie  Ac.  Regis  et  Regine  primo  et  secundo  post  mortem  Johis  Smyth  per 
Sacrament  Willi  Dad  gent.  Thome  Copping  Ac.  Qui  dicunt  qd  pred’eus  Jolies  Smyth  fuit  seisit 
in  duobus  Mesuagijs,  quadraginta  acf  terf,  viginti  acf  prati,  centum  acf  pastuf  et  sex  acf  bosci 
in  Ilketsale  in  Coni  Suff.  Sic  seisit  declarauit  testamentum,  et  voluit  quod  omnia  i>redca 

mesuag  terr  Ac.  venderentur.  Et  fecit  Cristinam  vxorem  suam  et  JoSem  Cooke,  clericum, 
Rectorem  de  Troston  fore  executores.  Et  postea  apud  Badwell  obi j t.  Que  quidam  mesuagia  &c» 
tenentur  de  Thoma  Due  Norff  vt  de  Manerio  suo  de  Ilketsale  hall.  Et  predcus  Julies  Smyth 
fuit  seisit  de  vno  mesuagio,  vno  Oreo,  viginti  acr  terr,  tribus  acr  pti,  et  quadraginta  acr  pastuf 
in  Langham,  Hunterston  et  Walsliam  in  Com  predco  tenentur  de  Manerio  de  Langham  hall. 
Et  fuit  seisitus  de  quinq^  peeijs  tef  in  Asshefeild  piia  continen  decern  acf  que  nup  fuerunt  Johis 
Salter  tenentes  de  Manerio  de  Asshefield  Magna.  Quidam  Julies  Salter  fuit  seisitus  de  vno 
mesuagio,  vno  gardino,  tribus  acf  terr,  vna  acf  et  dia  pti  et  duabus  acf  pastuf  in  Badwell 
Asshe  in  Com  Suff.  Per  cartam  suam  xvit0  die  Aprilis  anno  regni  llenrici  nup  Regis  Anglie 
octaui  vicesimo  tercio  ffeoffauit  prefat  Joliem  Smyth  et  Cristinam  Vxorem  eius,  Jotiem  Dey,  Johem 
Ferror  et  Joliem  Cooke  de  predcis  mesuagijs  Ac.  ad  opus  ipor  Jotiis  Smyth  Ac.  Et  postea 
predcus  .Johes  Smyth  apud  Badwell  Asshe  obijt :  et  fid  Cristina  supvixit  et  est  inde  seisit. 
Revertione  inde  WiHino  Smyth  filio  et  heredi  predci  Johis.  Obijt  secundi  die  Junij,  1553.  Et 
Wiffins  Smythe  fdius  et  heres  tempore  mortis  Johis  Smythe  patris  fuit  etatis  viginti  duo£  annoj 
et  amplius.  Inq.  p.m.  1  A  2,  P.  A  M.,  2,  9G. 


Cljana'ry  Prora&inqs,  ^ntytl)  c.  ®ookc,  1565. 

To  Sr  Nycholas  Bacon  Kl  Lorde  Keper  of  the  greate  Seale.  Shewith  your  supplyaunte 
John  Smythe  one  of  the  sonnes  of  John  Smithe  deceased;  That  the  same  John  Smythe,  ffather 
to  your  orator  was  possessed  of  divers  goodes  and  also  of  landes  and  tents  in  Sl  Andrewes 


1 G 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAM FLIES. 


Ilketsale  in  Suffolk  and  did  bequeath  vnto  yor  orator  and  vnto  Robert  Sinythe  one  other  of  his 
sonnes  to  euerye  of  them  the  somrae  of  one  hundred  pounds  at  tlieire  ages  of  xxih  veres — the 
survyvor  to  liave  the  others  parte  if  either  fortuned  to  decease  before  they  came  to  the  age  of 
xxiu  yeres : — the  jfmisses  in  Ilketsale  to  be  solde  to  the  pformaunce  of  his  will  by  his  executors, 
Crystian  his  wife,  mother  to  yor  orator  and  one  Sr  John  Cooke,  clerke.  Said  ffather  about 
tenne  yeres  last,  past  dyed  at  Baadwell  Asslie  in  the  saide  Countie  of  Suff.,  your  Suppliante 
and  the  saide  Roberte  beinge  verve  younge.  Executors  soulde  the  premises  in  Ilketsale  for  a 
greate  porcon  of  money.  The  said  Christian  dyed,  sythence  wch  the  saide  Robert  dyed,  his  saide 
age  of  xx iu  yeres  not  accomplyshed.  Sr  John  Cooke,  survivor  of  the  executors,  hath  refused  to 
make  payment  of  the  said  se  ue  rail  legacies  to  yor  Orator. 

John  Cooke’s  reply.  Is  sicklie  and  past  the  age  of  three  skore  yeres.  Chrystian,  Defendants 
said  syster,  took  vpon  her  thool  admynystracon  of  the  testators  goods  and  sold  the  lands  in 
Ilketsale  to  oon  Robte  Jollie.  There  neuer  cam  anie  penny  of  that  sale  to  Defendants  hands. 
AVirim  Hubburd,  one  of  the  executors  of  said  Chrystian,  hath  since  received  a  final  payment 
from  Jolly. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Series  II,  C.  160.  63. 


of  SaMuell  latt&s,  1575. 


Hec  est  finalis  Concordia  felt  in  Cur  Due* Regime  apud  Westm  a  die  Sti  Michis  in  vnu 
mensem  anno  regno^  Elizabeth  Regine  decimo  septimo  Inter  WiHih  Masham  quer  et  Johem 
Howell  alias  Smythe  Genlosum  A  Elenam  vxefh  eius  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio  tresdecim  acris  tre 
quatuor  acr  prati  A  quinqj  acr  pasture  in  Badwell.  Wide  Plitm  Conuencois  sum  fuit  int  eas  in 
eadm  Cur  scitt  qd  jfdci  Jobes  A  Elena  recogh  pdca  ten  esse  Jus  ipius  Willi  .  .  Idem  J olios 
et  Elena  \\  a  rant  jklco  Willo  A  hered  eius  jfdca  ten  cont  jldcos  Johem  &  Elenam  A  hered  ipius 
Johis  ac  contra  Wiffm  Howell  alias  Smythe  A  hered  suos  Jmppfh.  Et  p  hac  recogh  Warant  fine 
A  Concordia  Jdem  A\  i Hs  dedit  jfdcis  Johi  A  Elene  quadraginta  libras  sterlingo^.  Suff. 

Suffolk  Fines,  Mich.  17  A  18  Elizu*. 


Mill  of  Mtlliam  ‘Httbbarb,  1585. 

ihe  xxth  daye  of  Feb:  1585,  William  Hubbarde  of  Bromston  Hall  in  greate  Waldingfelde 
in  the  Countie  of  Sufi  :  I  give  to  Maryan  my  wife  and  John  Hubbarde  my  sonne  the  lease 
that  I  doe  houlde  of  S1'  George  Harte,  Ivnighte  in  Rente,  to  the  bringinge  vppe  of  my  children 
A  payinge  of  my  debts.  To  saide  wife  and  sonne  the  rest  of  my  goods.  If  wife  dothe  mary 
againe  she  shall  put  in  a  sufficient  bande  to  my  Brother  Smithe  and  to  my  sonne  John  for 
the  pforminge  of  this  my  will.  AVife  and  sonne  to  be  executors.  AVitnesses  AVittm  Cooper, 
Richard  Milles.  Probat  xxvit0  die  Septembris,  1587  juramentis  Marione  relicte  et  Johis  Hubbarde 
hlij-  Arch:  Sudb :  Liber  “Bright,”  fo.  178. 


HOVELL  OF  BADWELL  ASH. 


17 


intotnri',  Hotu'll  als.  Smntl)  anb  Sturges,  1588* 

This  Indenture  made  the  30th  daye  of  Januarye  in  the  30th  yere  of  Quene  Elizabeth 
betwene  John  Hovell  ats  Smyth  of  Langham  co.  Suff.  gent,  sonne  and  heyre  of  Witt  in  Hovell 
ats  Smyth  late  of  Langham  gent,  and  Fraunces  Sturges  of  Craneworth  co.  Norff.  Esquier. 
Wytnesseth  that  the  said  John  Hovell  ats  Smyth  doth  absolutely  bargayne  and  sell  unto  the 
said  Frauuc  Sturges  one  pece  of  pasture  in  Craneworth  called  the  Newe  Close  contayning  twentie 
and  foure  acres,  and  one  other  close  in  Craneworth  called  Morelesewe  and  two  peeces  of  pasture, 
altogether  fortye  acres,  and  also  one  peece  of  pasture  in  Shipdhih  conteyning  twelue  acres  and 
all  other  lands  of  the  said  John  Hovell  ats  Smyth  in  Cranesworth,  Letton  and  Shipdhih :  And 
John  Hovell  ats  Smith  doth  covennte  that  the  said  Fraunces  Sturges  shall  houlde  and  enioye 
the  said  lands  meadowes  Ac.  without  lett  or  Interupcoh  of  the  said  John  Hovell  ats  Smyth  and 
of  Robert  Burman  and  Anne  his  wyfe  or  of  any  other  pson.  Close  Roll,  30lh  Elizabeth,  part  2. 

By  a  Fine  in  Easter  term  in  the  30th  year  of  Q.  Elizabeth  John  Hovell  ats  Smyth  Junr 
and  Julian  his  wife  sold  to  Francis  Sturges  Esq  a  toft,  ten  acres  of  arrable  land,  five  acres  of 
meadow,  eighty  acres  of  pasture  and  five  acres  of  wood  in  Craneworth,  Letton  and  Shipdham 
co.  Norfolk,  Fine,  Norfolk,  Easter,  30  Eliz. 


Sah  of  JSrent  Jlleiglj  JItanar,  1594. 

Hec  est  finalis  Concordia  fca  in  Cur  Dne  Regine  apud  Westih  a  die  Pasche  in  quindecim 
dies  Anno  regno^.  Elizabeth  dei  gra  Angt  Ac  Regine  tricesimo  sexto  .  .  .  Inter  Edward  um  Colman 
quer  et  Jo  he  m  Hovell  alias  Smythe  A  Helenam  vxem  eius  deforc  de  Manlu  de  Illega  combusta 
alias  Brent  Illeyghe  alias  Abbotts  Hall  ac  de  vno  mesuagio  duob3  toftis  vno  columbar  duobj 
gardinis  Centum  acris  tre  viginti  acris  prati  nonagenta  acris  pasture  viginti  acris  bosci  in  Brent 
Illeyghe  A  Waldingfield  pua.  V rule  plitm  conuencois  sum  fuit  int  eos  in  eadih  Cur.  Scilt  qd 
jidict  Maum  A  ten  esse  ius  ipius  Edwardi  vt  itti  que  idem  Edwardus  het  de  dono  fldco^  Johis 
A  Helena.  Et  p  hac  recogn  Ac.  idem  Edwardus  dedit  pdcis  Johi  A  Helene  ducentas  libras. 

Suff. 

Fine,  Suffolk,  Easter  Term,  36  Eliz. 

John  Hovell  als  Smith  bought  this  Manor  of  William  Spring  Esqr  16th  Elizabeth,  1574 
Fine,  Mich.  16  &  17  Elizabeth.  Originalia  16  Elizth  Ac.  He  leased  it  28th  Elizth  to  Isaac  Wyncol. 
Charter  Mus.  Brit.  56.  C.  39.  The  licence  for  its  sale  is  dated  2  Septr  1593.  It  was  held  of  tne 
Crown  in  Capite.  Patent  Poll,  35  Eliz.  part  1,  memb.  1. 


Joljn  anil  Julian  Dobell  als.  Smith.  Jfini's,  1597. 

Inf  Robtum  Ballard  client  quer  et  Johem  Hovell  alias  Smythe  A  Julianam  vxem  eius  A 
Robtum  Burnam  A  Annam  vxem  eius  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio,  vno  horreo  vno  gardino  duab^ 
acris  prati  A  quindecim  acris  pasture  cum  ptin  in  Langham :  vnde  plitm  Conuencois  sum  fuit 
int1  eos  Ac.  Scilt  qd  jfdci  Johes  A  Juliane  A  Robtus  Burnam  &  Anna  recogn  pdicti  ten  cum 

L> 


18 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ptifi  esse  ius  ipius  Robti  Ballard  vt  ill  que  idem  Robtus  het  de  dono  (Idcor  Jobis  &  Juliane 
&  Robti  Burnam  &  Anne.  Et  p  hac  recogn  &c.  Idem  Robtus  Ballai'd  dedit  pdcis  Join  & 
Juliane  &  Robto  Burnam  A:  Anne  octoginta  libras  sterlingojj. 

Suff.  De  octabis  scT  Micbis  anno  regno^  Elizabeth  Anglie  ffranc  &  Hibue  tricesimo  octauo. 

Notes  of  Fines,  .Mich  38  &  39  Eliz. 

By  a  Fine  in  the  same  term  (Mich.  38  &  39  Eliz.)  John  Hovell  ats  Smyth  bought  of 
Robert  Burnam  and  Anne  his  wife  eleven  acres  of  arrable  land,  three  of  meadow  and  three  of 
pasture  in  Langham  aforesaid. 


S®tll  of  Jltargn*D  Jltonmtgs,  1598. 

The  28th  May,  1598,  Margery  Moninges  of  Badwell  Ashe  widow  and  executrix  of  John 
Moninges  yeoman.  1  convey  lands  (described)  to  my  kinsmen  Mr  Robert  Cooke  of  Langham, 
John  Massham  of  Badwell  Asshe  and  Robert  Hovell  ats  Smith  of  Walsham.  To  Elizabeth  Howsego 
my  daughter  and  her  husband  and  to  Johan  Moninges  my  daughter.  Johan  Salter  my  late 
mother  gave  bequests  to  her  daughters  children  and  to  Anne  and  Susan  Massham,  daughters  of 
John  Massham.  Lands  to  my  three  sons  John,  William  and  Samuel  Monings  and  to  my  son  in 
law  William  Rooks.  Margerie  Barnard  my  daughter ;  Margarett  Rookes  my  daughter ;  Elizabeth 
Howsego  my  daughter.  John  Monninges  my  son  and  Johan  my  daughter  to  be  executors. 
My  son  in  law  William  Rookes  to  be  supervisor.  Probat  at  Bury  Sl  Edmund’s  21  Aug.  1578. 


WtU  of  Joint  llobdl  als.  ^nritb,  1600. 

The  nynetenth  day  of  December  1600.  I  John  Hovell  ats  Smithe  of  Brently  (Brent  Illeigh) 
in  the  County  of  Suff.  gent,  do  make  this  my  last  will  and  Testament.  I  geve  unto  John 
Hovell  als  Smithe  my  sonne  Sixe  poundes  Thirtene  shillings  and  ffower  pence.  Vnto  Willyam 
Hovell  my  sonne  ffyftie  poundes  at  the  age  of  ffyve  and  Twenty  yeares.  Vnto  Thomas  Hovell 
my  sonne  ffortye  poundes  at  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  Vnto  Isaac  Hovell  my  sonne 
fforty  poundes  at  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  Vnto  Mary  Hovell  als  Smith,  An  Hovell 
my  daughter,  Hellen  Hovell  my  daughter,  Christyan  Hovell  my  daughter,  and  Sara  Hovell  my 
daughter  to  each  thirty  poundes  to  be  payde  vnto  them  at  their  ages  of  one  and  twenty  yeares. 
The  Residue  of  my  Goodes,  corne,  cattell,  chattells,  money,  plate,  Jewells,  houshould  stuff  (my 
debts  being  payd  and  this  my  last  wyll  performed)  I  geve  unto  Hellen  my  wife  whom  I  make 
sole  executrix.  Wytnesses  hereunto  John  Hubbard,  Gregory  Lumley.  Probatum  Vicesimo  tertio 
die  Januarij  1600  Juramento  procurator  Helene  Relce  dci  defuncti. 

P.C.C.  1  Woodhall. 


Joljn  lobrll  als.  Jfhws,  1619  attb  1625. 

Hec  est  finalis  Concordia  fca  in  Cur  Dni  Regis  apud  Westin,  Inter  Johem  Hovell  alias 
Smythe  &  Wiftm  Hawstede  quer  et  Isaacum  Hovell  ats  Smyth  &  Susannam  vSem  deforc  de  vno 


IIOVELL  OF  BA  DWELL  ASH. 


19 


mesuagio  A  vno  gardino  in  parochia  be  Marie  in  Bury  Sci  Edmundi.  Vnde  plitrn  conuencois 
sum  fuit  inter  eos  in  eadem  Cur,  Scilt  qd  jidci  Isaac  A  Susanna  recogn  jidict  mesuag  esse  ius 
ipius  Johis  A  Wittm.  Et  p  hac  recogn  Ac  ijdem  Jobes  A  Witt's  deder  j)dco  Isaaco  &  Susanne 
sexaginta  libras  sterlingor^.  Suff. 

Suffolk  Fines,  Mich.  17  Jac. 

Hec  est  finalis  Concordia  fca  in  Cur  Dni  Regis  apud  Westm,  Inter  Jobem  Hovell  ats 
Smyth  geSosum  quer  et  Thomam  Cutler  Arm  A  Yrsula  vxem  eius  &  Aliciam  Cutler  vid  deforc 
de  vno  mesuagio,  vno  gardino,  triginti  acris  tre  sex  acris  prati  A  quatuor  decim  acris  pasture 
in  Monkesilligh  &  Mildinge.  P’ci  Thomas  A  Ursula  &  Alicia  recogn  f?dict  mesuag  Ac.  esse  ius 
ipius  Johis.  Et  p  hac  recogn  Ac.  idem  Jobes  dedit  jldcis  Thome  A  Vrsule  A  Alicie  Ac. 

Suffolk  Fines,  Mich.  21  Jac. 


Will  of  Ht'llen  Herrington,  1664. 

The  fourteenth  day  of  March  1664  I  Hellen  Kerrington  of  Great  Waldingfeild  in  the 
Countie  of  Suffolke  late  the  wife  of  Robert  Kerrington  of  Newton  neare  Sudbury  in  the  Countie 
aforesaid,  Gentleman,  doe  make  this  my  last  will  in  manner  following.  I  bequeath  my  soule  into 
the  hands  of  Almightie  God  trusting  through  the  meritts  of  Jesus  Christ  to  be  made  pertaker 

of  life  everlasting.  My  said  husband  did  make  me  sole  executrix  of  his  last  will  and  did 

thereby  giue  vnto  his  and  my  five  daughters,  Elizabeth,  Hellen,  Mary,  Judith  and  Lettice  to 
every  of  them  three  hundred  pounds  at  theire  dayes  of  marriage  or  ages  of  twenty  one  yeares, 
and  vnto  me  Boyton  Hall  in  Monkes  Eliegh  that  I  should  dispose  of  it  to  augment  the  portions 
of  my  said  daughters  and  of  my  sonne  also.  The  personall  estate  of  my  late  husband  is  nothing 
neare  sufficient  to  pay  his  debts  and  satisfie  his  daughters  portions  (that  is  to  say)  Mary  the 
wife  of  Master  Samuell  Newson  to  whom  I  haue  already  given  her  three  hundred  pounds  with 
one  hundred  more  as  an  increase,  Elizabeth,  Hellen,  Judith  and  Lettice.  I  doe  hereby  giue  my 
other  fower  daughters  more  over  and  above  the  money  giuen  vnto  them  by  theire  fathers  will, 
To  my  grandchild  Mary  Newson  tenn  pounds.  At  the  request  of  my  sonne  Robert  Kerrington- 
by  my  Indenture  bearing  date  13th  August  in  the  fifteenth  yeare  of  his  Majesties  Raigne  that 
now  is  I  have  conveyed  to  him  the  aforesaid  messuage  and  farme  called  Boyton  Hall,  in  Monkes 
Eleigh  and  other  messuages  and  closes  in  Glemsford,  Monkes  Eleigh  and  Milding,  as  alsoe  that 
messuage  called  Fennes  in  Monkes  Eleigh  which  John  Howell  ats  Smith  Gentleman  late  father 
of  mee  the  said  Hellen  Kerrington  late  purchased  of  one  Tho :  Cutler  Esquire  and- Alice  Cutler, 
widdowe,  his  mother.  I  will  that  the  farme  called  the  Tyled  place  and  the  said  Messuage  called 
Fenns  shall  be  sold  to  discharge  the  sevarall  legacies  of  my  said  daughters.  I  doe  nominate  Hellen 
Kerrington  my  daughter  and  Thomas  Plampyn  of  Bredstreete,  London,  silkman,  my  louing  freind 

and  kinsman  Executors  of  this  will.  To  this  my  last  will  containing  tenn  sheetes  of  paper  to 

everie  of  them  I  have  subscribed  my  name  as  alsoe  to  the  Head  and  last  sheete  thereof  I  have 
put  my  Seale.  Probatum  tricesimo  die  Junij  1669  Juramento  Thomie  Plampyn  vnius  Executorum, 
Hellena  Kerrington  filia  et  alter  Execu?  renunciante. 

P.C.C.  73  Coke. 

D2 


20 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


fotracts  font  i\)t  Eejistcrs  oi  Uaitgljam,  ^nffolk. 

Baptisms. 

1561,  iii  Dec.  Robert  Smyth  sonne  of  William  Smyth. 

1563,  xxvii  Sept.  John  Smyth  sonne  of  William  Smyth. 

1583,  viii  March.  Elizabeth  Smith  daughter  of  John  Smith.  * 

1586,  xxx  May.  Robert  Smith  sonne  of  John  Smith  cfc  Julyan. 

1588,  i  Aug.  Nathaniell  Smith  sonne  of  John  Smith  &  Julyan. 

1590,  xix  d  uly.  Deborah  Smith  daughter  of  John  Smyth. 

1595,  x  Feb.  Margaret  Smith  daughter  of  Robert  Smith. 

1596,  Dec.  Anna  Smith  daughter  of  Robert  Smith  &  Margaret. 

1600,  4  Oct.  Sarah  Smith  daughter  of  Robert  Smith  &  Margaret. 


J^etitQree,  HohPll  of  Hangtiam,  ^arl.  1560. 


Thom  Hovell  als  Smyth  of  Ashfeld  -p 
in  Com’  Suff. 


1.  Thomas 
Hovell. 


2.  Will’m  Hovell- 
of  Stratford  Haley 
in  Suff. 


Ann  d.  of  Richard 
'Turner  of  Norton  in 
Com’  Suff. 


Joane  vx.  .  .  . 
Salter  of  Bad- 
well  ashe  in 
Com’  Suff. 


3.  John  Ho-- 
vell  of  Bad- 
well  ashe. 


■Christian  d.  of 
RobertCookeof 
Badwell  Ashe. 


....  vx. 
James  Jern- 
ingharn. 


Richard  Hovell=^Margery  d.  Co-  2.  Willm  Hovell=^Ann  d.  of  1.  Robert.  2.  John. 


als.  Smyth  of 
Strattford  in 
Corn’  Suff. 


heire  of  John  Ford 
of  Fraytinge  in 
Com ’  Essex. 


als.  Smyth  of 
Badwell  Ashe. 


A 


Turner  of 
St  Edmond’s 
Bery. 


Christian  vx. 
Will’m  Hobert 
of  Much  Wal- 
dingfeld  in  Suff. 


John  Hovell  of  Langham=^Juliane  d.  of  Wm  Tepshefe  of  Bradwell 
in  Com’  Suff.  in  Com’  Suff. 


i — i - 

1.  John  Hovell. 


T 


Margery  vx. 
Robert  Cooke 
of  Badwell 
ashe. 


- 1 

Mary  vx. 
John  Sharpe 
of  Nacton  in 
Suff. 


3.  Eliazer. 


5.  Edward. 


2.  Robert  Hovell.  4.  Obediah. 


Elizabeth  vx.  Samwell 
Robhud  of  Walsam’  in 
the  Willows. 


2.  Debbora. 


- I — 1 

3.  Anne. 


4.  Judith. 


There  lived  in  Ashfield  a  ffamily  of  Howel  alias  Smith  descended  as  is  said  of  Howells  of  Walsham  in  the 
Willowes  :  the  estate  in  that  family  is  now  (1655)  about  3001  p’  annum.  Divers  branches  of  it  are  in  seuerall  parts 
of  this  County. 

In  Walsham  in  the  Willows  lived  long  since  a  ffamily  of  Hovell  al’s  Smith  .  .  .  Sa.  a  crosse  Oi'  betweene 
iiij  water  bovgets  Arg.  The  Crest  a  greyhound  seiant  Or,  his  fore  feete  laid  out :  a  collar  a  line  Sa.  Tilletson. 

In  Wetherden  in  the  time  of  K.  Charles  lived  .  .  .  Howell  al’s  Smith :  he  was  a  younger  brother  of  that 
ffamily  of  Hovell  als.  Smith,  which  antiently  was  of  Walsham  of  the  Willows,  and  since  about  Ashfield  in  Blackbome 
hundred.  John  Smith,  his  oldest  sonne,  ffarmes  lands  at  this  time  in  Tannington  of  Henry  Stebbing  of  Branston, 
genii'  :  his  estate  in  lands  and,  otherwise  is  now  thought  worth  about  2,000 1. 

From  Candler’s  Description  of  Suffolk,  1G55.  Add.  MS.  15,520. 


HOVELL  OF  BADWELL  ASH. 


21 


$et>tgra,  Hobell  of  3Langf)am  anti  iSabVocll  2,s\). 

Thomas  Smyth  owned  lands  in  Ashfield  Magna,  co.  Suffolk,  circa  1490,  which  were  afterwards 
held  by  William  Smyth,  otherwise  Ilo veil,  in  1512.  Ashfield  Survey,  4  H.  8,  Pub.  Record  Office. 


i - 

Robert 


Hovell  als.  Smyth.  Will,  Arch.  Suff.,=f=Alice. 


.  *  >T 

1524 ;  died  comparatively  young  ;  to  be  buried  | 
in  Dallinghoo  church.  /j\ 

Hovell  of  Dallinghoo. 


William  Smyth,  otherwise  called1 
Hovell  of  Much  Ashfield,  1512, 
paid  Subsidy  there  1523  :  Will 
Arch.  Sudb.  26  Jan.  1540. 


=Joan.  John  Smyth  of  Much  Ash¬ 

field,  Camden ;  paid  subsidy 
there  1523,  15  H.  8. 


T 


William  Hovel  als.  Smith  of 
Haughley,  gent.,  mar.  Anne 
da.  of  Richard  Turner  of 
Norton.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  7 
May  1582.  =p 

A\ 

Hovell  of  Hillington. 


Joan,  wife  of  John  Salter 
of BadwellAsh.  HerWill, 
7  Jan.  1577,  proved  9  Jan. 
1580,  Arch.  Sudb.;  then 
of  Badwell,  widow. 


Amy,  wife  of 
.  .  .  James, 
1540 :  so  de¬ 
scribed  in 
her  father’s 
Will. 


John  Smyth  of  Badwell1 
Ash,  co.  Suffolk.  Will 
P.C.C.  33  More  23  May 
1553,  proved  31  Oct. 
1555.  Inq.  p.  m.  2&  3 
P.  &  M. ;  lands  in  Oran- 
worth  and  Letton. 


=f  Christian,  sister  of  Ro¬ 
bert  Cooke,  Yicar  of 
Haughley  and  of  John 
Cooke,  Rector  of  Tros- 
ton.  Her  Will,  P.C.C. 
36  Nodes,  19  Dec.  1557, 
proved  9  Dec.  1558. 


Margaret  Salter  mar: 
Henry  Masham  of  Bad- 
well.  See  pedigrees  of 
Masham.  Harl.  MS. 
1560,  and  Candler  MSS. 
Lib.  Bodleian. 


Margery  Salter  mar  : 
John  Monyngs  of  Bad- 
well.  Her  Will  1598, 
Arch.  Sudb.  Her  de¬ 
scendant  Wm.  Mon¬ 
yngs  entered  ped.  in 
the  Suff.  Yisitn.  1664. 


Margaret,  Christian,  wife  of  Richard 
living  Mylles,  1557 ;  had  son  Rich- 

1540.  ard  Mylles.  She  mar.  2dly 

John  Sharpe  of  Norton  and 
made  Will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
2  Feb.  1624  :  had  son  in 
law  Roger  Kerrington. 


John  Masham  of  Badwell  Ash,  1594,  HenryMasham  Anne  Masham 
mar.  Ann,  d.  of  Thos.  Harte.  His  of  Badwell  mar:  to  John 
eld.  dau.  &  coh.  mar.  1,  Edmd.  Bacon  Ash.  Ob.  s.p.  Fenn  of  Cret- 
of  Hessett,  and  2,  Sir  Wm.  Castleton,  Will  P.C.C.  39  inghaminl594 
Bart.  The  youngest  dau.  and  coh.  Dixey,  6  April  and  had  a  son, 
mar.  Robt.  Heigham,  son  of  Sir  John  1594,  proved  10  Masham  Fenn. 
Heigham  of  Barrow.  May  following. 


- r_1 

Sara,  wife  of  Rich¬ 
ard  Smith  of  Lon¬ 
don,  1594. 

,  .  .  wife  of  .  .  . 
James,  1594. 


Thomas  Smyth 
of  Ashfield. 
Camden-,  paid 
Subsidy  8 
Elizab.  1566. 


Marian,  wife  of  William 
Hubbard  of  Great  Wald- 
ingfield,  gent.  His  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  is  dated  20 
Feb.  1585  ;  probate  26 
Sept.  1587.  Richard 
Mylles  a  witness. 


Richard  Hubbard 
of  Great  Walding- 
field,made  his  kins¬ 
man,  John  Hovell 
als.  Smyth,  gent., 
Exor.  in  his  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  1622. 


Robert  Hovell 
als.  Smyth  of 
Ashfield  mar¬ 
ried  Mirabel 
Knapp,  who 
made  Will  as 
his  widow  5 
April  1631. =j= 

I - 1 

Robert  Hovell  als. 
Smith  of  Walsham 
le  Willowes,  gent.,s. 
andh.;  kinsman  and 
trustee  of  Margery 
Monyngs  in  1598. 
See  Hovell  of 
Ashfield. 


r — — — - - 

William  Hovell  als.  Smyth  of; 
Langham,co. Suffolk, gent. ,1561. 
( See  ped.  Harl.  MS.  1560),  son 
and  heir  1553,  and  then  aged 
22  :  held  lands  there  1564,  Cook 
c.  Hovell  Chanc.  Proc.  Series  II ; 
lands  in  Cranworth  and  Letton. 


Anne,  dau.  of  .  .  . 
Turner  of  Bury  St. 
Edmunds.  Harl. 
MSS.  1169  §'1560 
(“  da.  of  Tre- 
vers,”  Harl.  MS. 
1103). 


Robert  Smyth,  died 
under  age,  &  s.p. 
after  his  mother’s 
decease.  Smyth  c. 
Cooke,  Chan.  Proc., 
Series  II. 


John  Smyth,  2d  son,  took  name- 
of  Hovell  als.  Smyth,  “  verie 
yong”  in  1554.  Bought  Manor 
of  Brent  Eleigh,  Fine  Mich.  16 
§'  17  Eliz.,  1575  ;  then  of  Great 
Waldingfield,  gent.  Will  P.C.C. 
1  Woodhall,  19  Dec.  1600. 


-Hellen  or  Ellen  joined 
in  sale  of  Brent  Eleigh 
Manor  1594.  Execu¬ 
trix  to  husband  3  Jan. 
160^  (“  da.  of  Lytefoote 
of  London,”  Harl.  MS. 
1103). 


Robert,  John  Hovell  als.  Smith  of: 

son  of  Langham,  gent.,  bapt. 

William  there  1563  ;  sold  lands  in 
Smyth,  Cranworth  &  Letton,  co. 

bap.  at  Norff.,  late  Wm.  Hovell 

Langham  als.  Smyth,  his  father. 

1561.  Close  Roll  30  Eliz th. 


= Julian  (“da.  of  Wm. 
Topshefe  of  Brad- 
well,  co.  Suff.,” 
Harl.  MS.  1169); 
joined  her  husband 
in  sale  of  lands. 


n — TTT' 

Marie,  Hellen, 
Ann, Christian, 
and  Sarah,  de¬ 
visees  of  their 
father,  1600. 


John  Hovell  als.  Smyth.  gent.,= 
eldest  son :  probably  identical 
with  the  purchaser  of  lands  in 
Monks  Eleigh  and  Milden  1623, 
Fine  Mich.  21  Jas .:  exor.  to  his 
cousin  Richard  Hubbard,  1622. 


- r~n 

William,  Thomas 
and  Isaac,  the  two 
last  under  age  in 
1600.  It  was  Isaac, 
probably,  who  sold 
lands  inBury,1620, 
to  John  Hovell. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  at  Lang-  Deborah, 
ham  1583  (“  mar.  Samuel  bapt.  at 
Robhude  of  Walsham  in  Langham 
the  Willowes  in  Suff.,”  1590,  2d 
Harl.  MS.  1169).  dau. 


r  i 

John,  son  Robert,  2d  son, 

and  heir,  Harl.  MS.  1169  ; 

Harl.  MS.  bap.  at  Langham 

1169.  1584. 


Anne,  3d  dau.,  Harl. 
MSS.  1169,  1560. 

Judith,  4th  dau., 
Harl.  MSS.  1169. 


Nathaniel, 
bapt.  at 
Langham, 
1588. 


Hellen,  dau.  of  John  Hovell  als.  Smyth, =j=Robt.  Kerrington 


who  purchased  lands  in  Monks  Eleigh, 
&c.,  1623.  She  made  Will  as  Hellen 
Kerrington  of  Great  Waldingfield,  wo., 
P.C.C.  74  Coke,  14  March  1664. 


of  Newton,  near 
Sudbury, co.Suff., 
gent ;  made  Will ; 
dead  1664. 


- 1 - 1 

Eliazer,  Obediah ,  Edward, 

3rd  son,  4th  son,  5th  son, 

Harl.  MS.  Harl.  MS.  Harl.  MS. 

1169.  1169.  1169. 


Robert  Ker¬ 
rington,  son 
and  heir 
1664. 


Mary,  wife  of 
Samuel  New- 
son  1664;  had 
issue. 


i  r 

Elizabeth. 


Hellen. 


- r  n 

Judith. 

Lettice. 


Mill  of  Hobert  ifobrll  als.  1524> 

In  dei  noie  Amen,  the  xxvi  day  of  Decemt>r,  mcccccxxiiij*'11  I  Robt  Hovell  at  Smyth  make 
this  my  testament  &  last  will.  I  bequeth  my  soulle  vnto  Allmyghty  god,  to  our  lady  seynt 

Mary  &  to  all  the  holy  copany  of  heuen  &  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  Cherche  of  our  lady 

of  Dalanghoo.  I  bequeth  to  the  hey  auter  of  our  lady  of  Dalangho  iijs  iiijli,  to  the  hey  auter 
off  Pettaw  xijd,  to  the  Cherche  of  Dalangho  xls  to  a  paxe  or  a  pyxe  of  silu  I  geue  vnto 

Alice  my  wiff  my  Tent  in  Pettaw  &  my  londs  in  Crowfelde  &  my  Tent  in  Delangho  terme  of 

hir  lyff  w4  all  the  londs  belongyng;  then  after  the  deceasse  off  Alice  my  wiff  I  will  that 

Wifim  my  son  haue  my  Tent  in  Dalangho  wfc  all  the  londs  belongyng ;  also  I  geue  to  Herry 

my  son  my  londs  in  Crowfeld ;  also  to  Robt  my  son  my  Tent  at  Pettaw  :  they  to  pay  to 
the  pformyng  of  my  will  &c.  I  geue  unto  John  my  son  v  marks  A  Thoms  my  son  x  marks. 

I  geue  vnto  Pettaw  Cherche  vis  viiijd  ;  to  Alice  my  wiff  all  my  movabyll  goods  I  will  that 

Alice  my  wiff  helpe  Thomas  my  son  tyll  he  be  a  pest  A  he  to  haue  xviij  merks  to  syng  to 

yere  for  me  where  he  will.  The  Residue  I  put  to  the  disposicon  of  my  executes  whom  I 

ordeyn  &  make  Alice  my  wiff  &,  Mr  John  Hovell  my  son  &  Sr  Wihm  Brown  to  be  supuis  of 
this  my  last  will.  Probat.  xxi  Jan.  Arch.  Suff.  Will  book  1524-7. 

This  is  the  earliest  known  will  of  any  Hovell  alias  Smyth.  The  Hovells  of  Wyverstone 
had  formerly  held  the  manor  of  Horpole  in  Wickham  Market  which  adjoins  Dallinghoo,  and 
there  was,  in  1512,  a  way  in  the  latter  parish  called  Hoi’pole  Street,  and  a  messuage  named 
Hewals  which  had  belonged  to  one  Margaret  Hewale.  In  1557  Henry  Hovell  ais  Smyth,  the 

youngest  son  and  next  heir  of  Robert  Smith  and  Alice  his  wife,  was  in  possession  of  the  lands 

which  had  belonged  to  his  father.  Dallinghoo  Court  Dolls,  Public  Record  Office,  Portfolio  203,  77. 


of  lanbs  bn  Himrg  irobell,  1562. 

Hec  est  finalis  Concordia  fca  in  Cur  Dne  Regine  apud  Westfn  in  Octavis  scT  Michis  Anno 
regno^  Elizabeth  dei  gra  Angt  ffranc  &  hiBnie  Regine  ....  quarto  coram  Jacobo  Dyer  &c. 
Justic  &  alijs  ....  In?  Georgm  Jefferey  quer  et  Henr  Hovell  &  Aliciam  vxem  eius  deforc 
de  decern  acris  tre  sex  acris  prati  &  decern  acris  pasture  cum  ptin  in  Crofeld,  Coddenham  A 
Stonham  Aspall,  vnde  plitm  conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cur  Scitt  qd  pdci  Henr  & 
Alicia  recogn  pdca  ten  cum  ptin  esse  Jus  ipius  Georgii  ....  Et  p  hac  recogu  &c.  idem 
Georgius  dedit  pdcis  Henrico  &  Alicie  quadraginta  libras.  Suffolk  Fines,  Mich.  4  &  5  Elizu'. 


HOVELL  OF  DALLINGHOO. 


23 


QtlojS£  fiolL  Jtobril  &  Hurt,  1563. 

Hovell  &  Ryce.  Henr  Hovell  de  Lakingheathe  in  Com  Suff  yeoman,  recognouit  se 
debere  Robto  Ryce  de  Preston  in  Com  ffdco  geSos  Trescentas  libras.  If  Henry  Hovell, 
otherwise  called  Smythe,  doe  on  the  ffeaste  of  the  annunciacon  next  ensuyng  make  good 
assurance  &  estate  vnto  Robert  Ryce  of  lands  &  tents  in  Dal  in  go  in  the  countie  aforesayde 
vnto  the  vse  of  sayde  Henrye  Hovell  and  Alice  his  wyfe  ife  the  heires  of  their  bodye  further 
to  redeme  sayde  lands  of  morgage,  then  this  psentes  shalbe  voyde  and  of  no  effecte. 

Close  Roll,  5  Eliz.,  17. 


Will  of  Joint  Jfobdl,  1568. 

The  first  daie  of  September,  1568,  I  John  Hovell,  clex-ke,  vicker  of  the  Churche  of 
Parham  in  the  countie  of  Suff :  in  the  dioces  of  Norwch,  al  thoughe  sicke  in  bodye  yet  of  hole 
and  gfighte  Remembrance,  lauded  be  God,  make  this  my  laste  will  &  Testament.  I  bequeathe 
my  soule  to  allmightie  god  my  savior  and  Redemer,  suerlie  beleveinge  and  trustinge  thorowe 

his  mercie  to  be  saved.  And  my  bodie  I  will  shalbe  buried  at  the  discretion  of  my  executor 

as  holie  churche  will  guide  and  allowe  the  same.  I  give  and  bequeathe  to  Henry  Hovell,  one 

of  the  sonnes  of  Henry  Hovell  my  brother  xxs  at  his  age  of  .  .  .  yeares.  The  Residue  to 

John  Hovell  my  godson,  another  sonne  of  my  said  brother  Henry  Hovell.  I  appointe  my  said 
brother  executor1.  Witnesses,  Nicholas  Manne,  clerk  and  Richard  Coppinge.  Pi-oved  8th  Mai'ch 
1572  by  the  executor.  Norwich  Consistory,  Liber  “Briggs,”  fo.  403. 

John  Hovell  als  Smyth,  chaplain,  was  inducted  to  Pai'ham  on  the  presentation  of  the 

Prior  and  Convent  of  Hickling  in  Norfolk.  The  Mandate  is  dated  4  Septr  1529. 

Axxother  John  Hovell,  priest,  was  admitted  to  the  Rectory  of  Pettaugh,  1  Oct.  1552,  on 
the  presentation  of  King  Edward  VI.  Patent  Poll.  His  suerties  for  the  payment  of  First 

Fruits  wei’e  Adam  Gardyner  of  St.  Michael’s,  Wood  Sti’eet,  London,  and  Robert  Hovell  of 

Pettaugh.  Composition  Books ,  Public  Record  Office,  vol.  iv,  fo.  106. 


ikbtgree,  Dobell  of  JBalltngboo. 


Robert  Hovell  als.  Smyth.  Will,  Arch.  Suff.=f-Alice,  his  wife ;  to  whom  he  devised  lands 
26  Dec.  1524,  proved  21  Jan.  following ;  to  in  Pettaugh,  Crowfield  and  Dallinghoo, 
be  buried  in  the  church  of  Dallinghoo.  co.  Suffolk,  for  her  life. 


William  Hovell 
als.  Smyth,  to 
whom  his  fa¬ 
ther  left  tene¬ 
ment  and  lands 
in  Dallinghoo. 


— l - 

Robert  Hovell  als.  Smyth, 
to  have  his  father’s  lands 
in  Pettaugh.  Surety  for 
John  Hovell,  Rector  of  Pet¬ 
taugh,  where  he  was  living 
1552. 


- 1 - 

John  Hovell  als. 
Smyth,  identical 
perhaps  with  John 
Hovell  instituted 
Vicar  of  Parham 
1529. 


— I - 

Thomas 
IlOvell  als. 
Smyth ;  to 
be  a  priest 
1524. 


lenry  Hovell  als.  Smyth=Alice,  his  wife, 
f  Lakenheath,  co.  Suff.,  joined  her  hus- 
oungest  son  ;  sold  lands  band  in  sale  of 
a  Crowfield,  &c.,  1562,  and  lands,  1562  and 
a  Dallinghoo  1563 ;  living  1563. 

566;  of  Dallinghoo,  1546. 


9 


oMl  of  I->augl)lci>. 


Armorial  fBrarntgs. 

The  Arms  allowed  to  Richard  Ho  veil  of  Hillington  at  the  Norfolk  Visitation  of  1613 
were  Sable,  a  crescent  Or  with  a  crescent  for  difference.  Upon  the  monument  in  Hillington 

church  to  the  memory  of  Richard  Hovell,  who  married  Margery  Ford  and  died  in  1611,  is  a 

shield  in  which  Hovell  as  above  impales  Ford  of  Essex.  Upon  a  later  monument,  evidently  for 
Richard  Hovell,  his  son,  who  married  Frances  Ferneley  and  died  in  1653,  Hovell  quarters  Ford 
and  impales  Ferneley,  Or,  on  a  bend  Vert  three  bucks’  heads  caboshed  Argent  attired  of  the 
field.  At  the  Norfolk  Visitation  of  1664  (Harl.  M.S.,  1085),  the  arms  assigned  to  Sir  William 
Hovell  of  Hillington,  who  married  the  daughter  and  heir  of  Thomas  Lilly,  of  South  Lynn,  were  : — 
Quarterly,  1  and  4,  Hovell  ;  2,  Harsick,  Or,  a  chief  indented  Sable  ;  and  3,  Ford,  Argent,  a 
wolf  salient  Sable  ;  on  a  shield  of  pretence,  Lilly,  Argent,  a  fess  Ermine  between  three  roses 

Gules.  A  pedigree  by  Sir  Richard  St.  George  is  referred  to  in  support  of  this  achievement,  but 

the  quartering  of  Harsick  rests  upon  doubtful  authority,  as  we  have  shown  on  page  11  when 
treating  of  the  Hovell  pedigree  in  Harl.  MS.,  1103. 


Hcbeil,  alias  Unutl),  History  of  tijr  J&amr. 

In  the  will  of  John  Ford,  1557,  Richard  Hovell,  his  son-in-law,  is  called  Richard  Smyth. 
In  the  Visitation  pedigree  of  Foord  of  Essex  (Harl.  MS.,  1541)  he  is  styled  Richard  Hovell, 
alias  Smyth.  In  the  parish  registers  of  Stratford,  in  Suffolk,  where  he  resided  for  some  years, 
his  children  are  baptised  as  Smyths  from  1567  to  1571,  as  Hovells  alias  Smyth  in  1573  and 
1574,  and  as  Hovell  only  in  1576.  In  their  several  wills  his  father  writes  himself  “William 
Hovell  alias  Smyth”  in  1582,  and  his  grandfather,  “William  Smyth,”  in  1540.  All  three,  father, 
son,  and  grandson,  are  frequently  entered  in  the  earlier  Suffolk  Subsidies  or  Tax  Rolls  as  Smyth 
only. 

The  earliest  known  mention  of  Hovell,  alias  Smyth,  occurs  in  a  survey  of  Ashfield  with 
Badwell  Ash  in  1512.  (Rentals  Surveys,  Public  Record  Office,  Portfolio  if).  In  this 
manuscript  the  lands  of  “  Wiffrn  Smyth  otherwise  called  Willm  Hovell  ”  are  described  in  detail. 
In  December,  1524,  Robert  Hovell  ats  Smyth,  a  substantial  Suffolk  landowner,  made  his  will 
(Arch.  Suff.)  desiring  to  be  buried  in  the  church  of  Dallinghoo.  In  1541  William  Hovell  alias 
Smyth  purchased  lands  in  Ashfield  by  a  Fine  recorded  in  Easter  Term  in  the  thirty-third  year 
of  King  Henry  the  Eighth. 

Why  William  Smyth  of  Ashfield  in  1512  was  otherwise  called  William  Hovell  we  do  not 
know.  Conjecture  has  been  rife  as  to  the  origin  of  this  and  similar  alternative  surnames.  A 
small  treatise  could  be  written  upon  the  subject.  So  far  from  necessarily  indicating  illegitimacy 
they  were  not  infrequently  assumed  as  a  mark  of  distinction,  and  by  people  of  means  and 


HOVE LL  OF  HAUGHLFA. 


25 


standing.  They  were  rather  numerous  in  the  sixteenth  century.  Amongst  the  Visitation  families 
of  Suffolk  were  Chapman  alias  Barker,  Chapman  alias  Felton,  Herberd  alias  Yaxley,  and  Reeve 
alias  Wright.  What  we  do  know  is  that  about  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  a  number 
of  well-to-do  Smyths  in  Suffolk,  Essex  and  London,  began  to  call  themselves  Hovell  alias  Smyth 
indicating  that  they  considered  the  latter  form  of  appellation  the  more  honourable  of  the  two. 


William  ^>mitl)  als.  ISobelL  %tnm,  1512. 

Ashefeld  with  the  Membres.  The  terrier  &  Rentall  made  and  renewed  there  in  the 
moneth  of  August  in  the  iiijth  yere  of  the  reigne  of  Kyng  Henr  the  viijth  afore  John  Suliard, 
stiward  of  the  said  lordship,  by  the  othes  of  the  tennts  there. 

Custumar  tennts.  Robt.  Coke  holdeth  all  the  Scite  of  the  Maner  of  Ashefeld  Ac. 

Cakeston  strete.  WiHm  Smyth  otherwise  cald  WiHm  Hovell  holdeth  a  Toft  &  viij  acres 
of  land  some  tyme  in  the  tenure  of  Thomas  Smyth  in  the  wey  cald  Jordans  in  Ashfeld. 

The  same  WiHm  holdeth  iii  acres  pcell  of  a  mese  &  xix  acres  iij  Rods  di  of  land  some 
tyme  of  Thomas  Smyth. 

The  same  WiHm  holdeth  v  rode  of  land  in  a  close  cald  Whit  oke  pcell  of  a  mese  & 
xiiij  acres  di  &  half  a  rode  some  tyme  Robt.  Martyn. 

The  same  WiHm  holdeth  iiij  acres  purchased  of  John  Punder  and  xxiiij  acres  di  &  half 

a  rode. 

The  same  WiHm  for  vii  acres  pcell  of  a  tenement  &  xxi  acres  and  a  rode  lying  in  a 
Croft  cald  Whit  oke  .... 

The  same  WiHm  holdeth  a  mese  with  xx  acres  di  of  land  and  wode  in  Cakeston  strete 
late  of  Hugh  boswell :  the  said  mese  with  a  croft  lying  thereunto  conteyne  xiij  acr  and  a  rode. 

The  same  WiHm  holdeth  a  rode  of  pasture  late  of  the  said  Hugh  .  .  . 

Freholders.  WiHm  Smyth  holdeth  a  mese  and  xxx  acres  of  land  at  Botonhaugh  Grene, 
late  of  Rob*  Smyth,  &  other  lands  sometyme  of  Rob*  Martyn. 

Rentals  and  Surveys,  Public  Record  Office,  Portfolio  If 

In  his  will  (Arch.  Sudb.  “Fuller”  fo.  56b)  Hugh  Boswell  of  Ashfield  Magna,  the  former 
owner  of  the  messuage  in  Cakeston  Street,  appoints  Margaret  Brandish,  his  daughter,  and  William 
Smyth  his  executors,  and  leaves  Alice  Smyth,  his  niece  or  granddaughter,  for  the  word  had  then 
both  meanings,  a  bequest. 

A  full  abstract  of  William  Smith’s  Will  is  given  under  Hovell  of  Badwell.  It  is  very 
genealogical,  as  may  be  seen  by  the  following  pedigree  which  may  be  deduced  from  it. 


William  Smyth,  of  Much  Ashfield,  co.  Suffolk,  made  will,  26  Jan.  1540,  proved  7  March 
following,  naming  Joan  his  wife  and  the  following  children  and  grandchildren. 


William  Smyth. 


T 


Am}'  James, 
my  daughter. 


I 

I 

i - - 1 - 

Katherine.  Richard. 


William. 


Hugh. 


Joan,  wife  of 
John  Salter. 
Y 


Joan.  Margaret. 


- 1 

■John  Smyth. 


Margaret.  Christian. 


E 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


2G 


Still  of  Militant  ISrooke,  1556. 

Wyftm  Broke  of  Haughley  in  the  countye  of  Suff :  1556.  To  be  buried  wtbin  the 
church e  of  Haughley.  Lands  to  my  godson  Wyftm  Smythe  the  yonger  at  his  age  of  one 
and  twenty  yeres.  To  Jamys  Smythe  and  Hewghe  Smythe  sonnes  of  Wyftm  Smythe  the  elder 
of  Hawghley.  Ynto  Margaret  Smythe  and  Elizabeth  Smythe  daughters  of  said  Wyftm  Smythe 
the  elder  at  their  seuerall  ages  of  foure  and  twentye  yeres,  or  daies  of  marriage.  Ynto  the 
saide  Wyftm  Smythe  the  elder  and  Anne  his  wyfe  my  ten*  called  Sprages  in  Hawghleye  grene, 
and  on  their  decease  vnto  Richard  Smythe  sonne  of  the  saide  Wyftm.  I  make  my  welbeloved 
in  Chryste  Wyftm  Smyth  thelder,  my  godson,  myn  executor.  Howses  (described)  to  Wyftm 
Smyth  the  yonger,  Margaret  and  Elizabeth  his  daughters,  and  to  Margaret  Evan.  Probatum 
vicesimo  die  Septembris  1558  executori. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “Bell,”  fo.  162’’. 

In  1544  Thomas  Hawell  of  Haughley  made  Joan,  his  wife,  executrix  of  his  will  and 
William  Brooke,  his  uncle,  supervisor. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Coole,”  489'\ 


5EUI  of  Militant  fjobsll  als.  J^ntttlj,  1582. 

In  dei  noie  Amen  :  the  seventhe  daie  of  the  monethe  of  Maie,  An0.  Dfti,  1582,  I 
Wiftm  Hovell  ais  Smythe  de  Haughlie  co.  Suff :  gent,  being  in  perfecte  mynde  &  good  remem¬ 
brance,  renouncinge  &  annihilating  all  other  willes  do  constitute  &  make  this  to  be  my  last  will. 
I  bequethe  my  sowle  to  Allmightie  God  &  my  bodie  to  be  buried  at  the  discretion  of  myne 

executors.  To  everie  of  the  children  of  my  daughter  Katherin  Wodegate  and  of  my  daughter 

Margarete  Debeneye  that  shall  be  lyvinge  at  the  daie  of  my  dethe,  tenne  shillinges  at  their 
several  marriages.  To  the  children  of  Richarde  Hovell  my  sonne,  Elizabeth  Smythe  my  daughter 
and  Hugh  Hovell  my  sonne.  To  the  saide  Richarde  my  sonne  one  silver  goblett.  To  Stephan 
Wodgate  of  Estbargholt  thre  pounds.  To  the  pore  people  of  Norton,  Stowlangtoft  and  Hunston. 

To  the  amendynge  of  a  lane  in  Ashefilde  called  Claye  pitte  Lane  vs.  To  the  releffe  of  the  pore 

at  my  buriall  daie  fower  pounds.  My  sonnes  Richard  and  Hugh  to  be  executors.  John  Golding, 
clerke,  John  Sharpe  als  Smarte,  and  Andrew  Baker,  witnesses.  Proved  at  Bury  S*  Edmunds  in 
May,  1583,  by  Hugh  Hovell  one  of  the  executors. 

Arch.  Sudb. 


Sitxll  of  Hiujl)  Hobcll  als.  ji>mttlj,  1596. 

Hugh  Hovell  als  Smyth,  of  Hawleigh,  in  the  Countie  of  Suff:  7th  Feb.  1596.  Ynto 
Anne  my  wife  houses  and  land.s  (specified)  for  the  terme  of  her  life,  she  not  to  clay  me  thirds, 
and  after  her  decease  to  remayne  to  Hugh  Hovell  als  Smyth  my  sonne  and  his  heires  for  ever. 
To  Martha  Hovell  als  Smyth  my  daughter  the  surne  of  forty  poundes  and  my  virginalls.  To 
Mary  Hovell  als  Smyth  my  daughter  forty  poundes  at  her  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares  or 
day  of  marriage.  To  Dorothy  Hovell  als  Smyth  and  Elizabeth  Hovell  als  Smyth  my  daughters 


HOYELL  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


27 


to  each  forty  poundes  at  their  ages  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  Certain  lands  to  be  sold. 
Salts  of  silver  and  gilt  and  gold  ring.  To  Anne  Back  my  daughter.  Residue  to  wife  to 
bring  up  my  children.  Richard  Hovell  als  Smyth  my  sonne  to  be  Executor.  Probat  in 
April  1597.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Blomefeilde,”  fo.  230b. 


®Rill  of  KirljarD  '#obdl,  160$. 

The  ffowerth  daye  of  October  1608,  I  Richarde  Hovell  thelder  of  Hillington  in  the 
Countie  of  Norff,  esquier,  consideringe  that  it  is  the  dutie  of  everie  Christian  to  be  in  readines 
to  dye  whensoever  it  shall  please  God,  doe  ordeyne  this  my  present  Testament  and  last  will. 
T  commend  my  soule  to  Allmightie  God,  and  my  body  to  the  earth  att  the  discretion  of 
Richard  Hovell  my  sonne  and  heire  whom  I  make  sole  Executor.  I  give  vnto  my  said  sonne 
all  my  Mannors,  messuages,  howses,  lands,  Ac.,  in  Hillington,  Flitcham  and  Congham  in  the 
said  Countie  and  the  Advowson  of  the  Church  of  Hillington,  he  payinge  yearelie  vnto  Margery 
my  Avief  the  some  of  twoo  hundred  markes.  I  give  vnto  the  said  Margery  ffortie  poundes 
and  one  half  of  all  my  plate,  Ac.  Vnto  my  sonne  Anthony  Hovell  one  Annuitie  of  Twenty 
poundes  by  the  yeare.  Vnto  my  daughter  Margery  Hovell  (live  hundred  poundes  at  her  age 
of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  Vnto  Jane  Fiske  and  Francys  Fiske,  daughters  of  my  late  sonne 
in  lawe  George  Fiske,  ffiftie  poundes  a  peece  att  their  severall  ags  of  one  and  twentie  yeares. 
I  give  to  everie  of  my  daughters  Bridgett  Moo  the,  Margaret  He  la  Haye  and  Anne  Jolly  the 
some  of  tenn  poundes.  Vnto  the  said  Richard  Hovell  my  sonne  myne  Executor  all  my  goodes 
and  Cattells  nott  herein  bequeathed.  Witnesses,  Tho :  Barro,  Thomas  Rewett  and  George 
Fairley.  Probatum  duodecimo  die  Februarij  1611,  Juramento  Ricliardi  Hovell  filij  et  executoris 
dicti  defuncti.  P.C.C.  16  Fenner. 

We  learn  from  the  Inquisition  Post  Mortem  of  Richard  Hovell  taken  on  the  16th  of 
April  in  the  tenth  year  of  James  I,  that  on  the  marriage  of  Richard  Hovell  his  son  and  heir 
to  Frances  daughter  of  Thomas  Ferneley,  Esqre,  he  settled  upon  them  by  deed  dated  18tb  Feb. 
40th  Elizth  messuages  called  the  Dairy  House  and  Lamsons,  Ac.,  in  Geywood  and  W  otton,  co. 
Norfolk.  By  another  deed,  dated  6th  June,  5th  James  I,  he  enfeoffed  to  Thomas  Hovell,  gent., 
her  son,  his  Manors  of  Pontes  and  Bunnetts,  Ac.,  in  Bulmer,  Henney,  Gestingthorpe,  Middleton 
and  Twynstede,  co  Essex.  He  held  also  the  Manors  of  Borowall,  Hillington,  Albyons  in 
Hillington,  Ac.,  co.  Norfolk,  together  with  lands  in  Flitcham,  Ac.  He  died  on  the  first  of 
December  in  the  9th  year  of  King  James,  when  Richard  Hovell  his  son  and  heir  was  of  the 
age  of  thirty  years  and  upAvards. 


ffiKtll  of  ISngl)  Hobdl,  1616. 

Hugh  Hovell  of  Holkham  in  the  Countie  of  Norfolk,  gentleman,  8lb  October,  1616. 
Legacies  to  each  child  of  my  sisters  Mary,  Dorothy  and  Elizabeth  when  they  severally  attain 
their  ages  of  one  and  tAventy  years.  To  my  cozen  Hugh  Back  the  thirty  pounds  which  he 
oweth  me.  To  my  kinsAvoman  Martha  Backe  thirtie  poundes  at  her  age  of  eighteene,  or  on 
her  day  of  marriage.  To  my  cozen  Frances  Hovell  the  wife  of  my  cozen  Richard  Hovell  of 
Hillington  in  Norfolk,  gent.,  the  summe  of  tenne  poundes.  To  my  cozens  Richard  and  William, 


28 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


sonnes  of  my  said  cozen  Richard  Hovell,  to  each  tenne  poundes.  To  my  cozen  Thomas  Russell 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife  to  each  tenne  pounds.  To  my  cozen  Margerie  Hovell  five  poundes.  To 
my  cozen  William  Hovell  and  his  heires  my  messuages,  landes  Ac.  in  Haughley  in  the  Countie 
of  Suffolk,  to  be  sold  to  carry  out  this  my  will.  I  appoint  him  sole  executor.  Robert  Pennye, 
John  Maye  and  Roger  Mansuer,  Witnesses.  Codicil  making  said  cozen  William  Hovell  the 
executor  residuary  legatee.  Proved  with  codicil  27  Nov.  1616. 

Norwich  Consistory,  Register  1616,  fo.  148. 


Mill  of  Aim  tobfll,  1635. 

Alice  Hovell  of  Gaywood  in  the  County  of  Norfolk,  aged  sixty  or  thereabouts,  wife  of 
William  Hovell  of  the  same  place,  gentleman,  January  1635.  My  eldest  sonne  Cobbe  Hovell; 
second  son  William  Hovell ;  youngest  son  Hewe  Hovell.  My  youngest  daughter  Alice  Hovell. 
To  Temperance,  one  of  the  daughters  of  Mr  Robert  Cremer,  at  her  age  of  twenty  years.  My 
daughters  Mrs  Cremer  and  Mrs  Atkinson,  and  my  cousin  Jane  Tyler.  To  Jane  Hargate.  Mv 
husband  and  William  Hovell  to  be  executors. 

This  will  was  proved  in  the  Court  of  the  Archdeacon  of  Norfolk,  28th  February  1635. 
It  gave  rise  to  suits  in  the  Ecclesiastical  Court  at  Norwich  and  the  Court  of  Chancery.  The 
Depositions  in  Atkinson  contra  Hovell  (Bridges  VI  Depc’ons)  are  full  of  genealogical  details 
relating  to  the  family  See  also  Atkinson  c.  Hovell ,  Chas.  I,  B.  &  A.,  A.A.  33,  8 ;  Hovell  c. 
Atkinson,  Chas.  I,  B.  A  A.,  H.H.  118,  10;  Atkinson  c.  Ward,  Chancery  Decrees,  Roll  1169. 


Will  of  JHaru  ©ooDhrin,  1647. 

Mary  Goodwin  of  Sl  Giles’  parish  in  the  City  of  Norwich,  widow,  27  Nov.  1647.  To  be 
buried  in  Hillington  church  near  my  late  husband.  Refers  to  suit  in  the  Court  of  Wards  for 
money  due  from  Thomas  Skipp  Esq.  deceased.  Cozen  Temperance  Scrime,  daughter  of  my 
brother  William  Hovell  of  Little  Massingham.  Cozens  Barbara  Dawkins,  William  Kitson,  Ann  Keable 
of  Boxford.  My  brother  William  Russell  who  mortgaged  property  to  me  in  Rudham.  My  cozens 
Frances  Russell,  Margery  Russell  and  Elizabeth  Russell  his  daughters.  My  brother  Thomas  Hovell 
and  his  two  daughters  Dorothy  and  Frances.  Cozen  Margery  Jolly  my  sister  Jolly’s  daughter. 
Robert  Scrime  and  Thomas  Scrime,  two  sons  of  my  cozen  Temperance  Scrime  aforesaid  of  Little 
Massingham.  Godson  Richard  Hovell,  my  brother  Richard  Hovell’s  son.  Cozen  Ann  Duffen’s 
son,  my  godson.  Sister  Byng :  sister  Frances  Hovell  of  Hillington  Cozen  Gurney :  cozen  Coulson : 
cozen  Hugh  Hovell’s  wife :  cozens  Barbara  Base,  Richard  Delahay,  Thomas  Smith  and  Robert 
Scrime  the  younger.  Legacies  to  George  Cooke,  clerk,  of  Basham  near  Beccles,  and  to  Charles 
George  Cooke,  Counselor  at  law  in  Norfolk.  Sir  Richard  Hovell  of  Sprowston  in  Norfolk,  Knight, 
and  my  brother  in  law  Humphrey  Byng,  Doctor  in  Physick,  of  Norfolk,  to  be  my  executors. 
This  will  was  proved  in  the  Archdeaconry  of  Norwich  19th  Feb.  164J-. 

The  testatrix  was  widow  of  William  Goodwin,  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Martlesham,  co. 
Suffolk,  who  died  in  1540.  See  Godwin  of  Martlesham,  “Suffolk  Manorial  Families,”  Yol.  I, 
214.  Her  cousin  or  neice  (for  both  terms  were  used  in  those  days),  Temperance  Scrime,  was 
wife  of  Robert  Cremer  als.  Scrime  of  Little  Massingham,  co.  Norfolk,  gent. 


HOVELL  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


29 


Sljomas  IftobcU,  purchase  of  (Estate,  164S. 

Hec  est  finalis  Concordia  fca  in  Cur  Dui  Regis  apud  Westfn  a  die  Sci  Mictiis  in  tres 
septimanas  Anno  regnojj  Caroli  dei  gra  Angi  &c.  Regis  vicesimo  quarto.  In?  Thomam  Hovell 
genlosum  quer  et  Ricm  Hovell  Armig’um  &  Franciscam  vxem  eius  deforc  de  tribj  mesuagijs  tribj 
horreis  quatuor  toftis  duobj  columbarijs  duobj  gardinis  duobj  pomarijs  quinquaginta  acris  tre 
quinquaginta  acris  prati  quinquaginta  acris  pasture  &  decern  acris  bosci  cum  ptin  in  Petystry 
alias  Pistry  Brodfeild  YfFord  &  Dallingho.  p\lci  Ricus  et  ffrancisca  recogn  [idea  ten  eise  ius 
ipius  Thome  vt  ill  que  idem  Thomas  heb  de  fidcop  Rici  et  ffrancisce ;  et  p  hac  recogn.  &c. 
idem  Thomas  dedit  jidcis  Rico  &  ffranciscse  Centum  &  viginti  libras  sterlingo^.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  Mich  24  Car  I. 

Thomas  Hovell,  younger  son  of  Richard  Hovell  of  Hillington,  and  Frances,  his  wife,  was 
born  in  or  about  the  year  1614.  He  was  probably  identical  with  the  Thomas  Hovell  of 
Pettistree  who  married  Anne,  daughter  of  Robert  Gosnold  and  Anne  Talmach  his  wife,  and 
had  issue.  She  was  grand-daughter  of  Robert  Gosnold  of  Otley,  and  Amy  Forth.  See  Pedigree 
of  Gosnold,  transcribed  by  Davy  from  the  Blois  MS. 


Mill  of  Kkhari*  Hobdl,  1649. 

Richard  Hovell  the  elder  of  Hillington  in  the  County  of  Norff.  Esquire  23  Aprill,  1649. 
I  bequeath  my  soule  into  the  hand  of  Almightie  God  that  gave  itt,  hopeing  through  the  death 
and  passion  of  Jesus  Christ  my  Saviour  to  receive  pardon  and  Remission  of  all  my  sinns. 
And  as  for  my  Body  I  freely  give  itt  over  unto  the  Earth  from  whence  itt  came.  I  give  to 
the  poore  Inhabitants  of  Hillington  Tenn  poundes  to  be  imployed  by  the  Churchwardens  and 
Overseers  to  sett  the  poore  people  there  on  worke.  Whereas  my  eldest  sonne  Sr  Richard  Hovell 
doth  owe  vnto  me  five  hundred  pounds  vpon  Bond  I  doe  bequeath  it  to  Richard  Hovell  my 
Grandchild,  one  of  the  sonns  of  Sr  Richard  Hovell  aforesaid.  Whereas  by  Indentures  Tripartite 
beareinge  date  the  ffifte  day  of  November  which  was  in  the  fifteenth  yeare  of  the  Baigne  of 
our  late  Soveraigne  Lord  Kinge  Charles,  Betweene  mee  Richard  Hovell  thelder  and  Sl  Richard 
Hovell  by  the  name  of  Richard  Hovell  the  Younger  Esquire  sonne  and  Heire  Apparent  of  the 

said  Richard  Hovell  the  elder,  of  the  first  part,  William  Hovell  then  of  Hillington  gent.,  one 

other  of  the  sonns  of  Richard  Hovell  the  elder,  of  the  second  part,  and  Edmund  Dethicke  then 
of  Harply,  Gent.,  of  the  third  part,  I  and  my  said  sonn  Sr  Richard  have  covenanted  that  my 

Executors  or  my  said  sonne  shall  pay  unto  the  said  William  Hovell  the  suhie  of  one  Thousand 

twoe  hundred  twenty  and  fower  poundes.  The  said  some  is  the  Cheife  meanes  and  Estate  my 
said  sonne  William  Hovell  hath.  Therefore  for  the  better  secureinge  it  I  doe  give  and  bequeath 
vnto  the  said  Sr  Richard  Hovell  all  my  Mannora,  Lands,  Tenements,  Fouldcourses  and  Liberties 
of  Foldage  in  Dockinge  vpon  Condicon  that  8ir  Richard  Hovell  shall  pay  the  said  sume  to 
my  said  sonne  William  Hovell.  I  ordaine  my  said  sonne  Sr  Richard  Hovell  sole  Executor. 

This  Will  was  proved  at  Westminster  before  the  Judges  for  Probate  of  Wills  the 
Twenty  Eight  day  of  June  1653  by  the  Oath  of  Sr  Richard  Hovell,  Knight,  the  sonne  and  sole 
executor.  P.C.C.  13  Brent. 


30 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


SStill  of  S'ir  William  #obrll,  1669. 

Sir  Wiilimj  Hovell  of  Hillington,  in  Norfolke,  Knight,  this  twenty  nyneth  day  of  June, 
1669.  My  body  I  desire  may  be  interred  in  the  Chancell  of  the  parish  Church  of  Hillington. 
I  devise  vnto  my  executors  Fouldcourses  Ac.  in  Docking,  Bercham,  Ingoldsthorpe,  Wootton,  and 
Gaywood,  in  the  said  County,  to  be  sold  to  satisfy  my  debts  and  legacies.  I  esteeme  the 

somme  of  Eight  hundred  pounds  oweing  vnto  my  brother  Richard  Hovell  to  be  a  debt  of 

myne,  although  I  am  not  in  law  lyable  thereto.  And  doe  will  that  the  same  be  paid  vnto 

him  with  interest  for  forbearance,  hee  giueing  A  sealing  therevpon  a  sufficient  release  for  the 

same  to  Dame  Dorothy  Hovell  my  mother,  and  to  my  executors,  of  all  legacies  giuen  vnto  him 
by  my  late  grandfather  &  father.  The  rest  and  residue  of  all  my  Mannors,  messuages,  lands 
and  tenements  I  devise  to  my  three  daughters  Clemence,  Dorothy  and  Etheldred,  and  to  such 
other  daughter  as  my  now  wife  shall  happen  to  bee  with  child,  equally,  when  they  attaine 
their  respective  ages  of  eighteene  yeares.  And  in  the  meane  tyme  the  proffitts  of  my  said 
Mannors  Jrc.  shalbee  applyed  for  the  maintenance  and  education  of  my  said  daughters,  the  care 
whereof  I  doe  recommend  to  Dame  Etheldred  Hovell  my  wife  dureing  her  widowhood,  wherein 
I  earnestly  desire  she  would  take  the  advice  of  my  other  Executors.  If  a  sonne  shalbe  borne 

to  me  and  happen  to  live  to  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares,  or  leave  issue,  then  I  will 

all  my  said  Mannors  Ac.  to  such  sonne  and  his  heires,  my  executors  raising  portions  for  my 
daughters.  I  bequeath  to  the  poore  people  of  Hillington  tenne  pounds.  And  I  doe  nominate 
Executors  of  this  my  will  Dame  Etheldred  Hovell  my  said  wife,  Robert  Long  the  elder  of 

Remirston  esquire  and  John  Anguish  of  King’s  Lynne  esquire,  And  I  doe  bequeath  to  each  of 

them  taking  the  burden  upon  them  the  somme  of  one  hundred  pounds.  And  I  doe  nominate 
the  right  Honorable  Horatio  Lord  Towneshend  A  Thomas  Cliicheley  of  Wimple  in  the  County 
of  Cambridg  esquire  supravisors.  And  that  they  would  accepte  the  trust  I  doe  give  to  either 
of  them  the  somme  of  fiftie  pounds.  Lands  in  Joynture  to  my  said  wife  in  Hillington.  Other 
lands  in  Hillington  not  in  Joynture  to  her.  Probatum  decimo  tertio  die  Februarij,  1670,  Juramento 
Johanis  Anguish  vnius  executorum  Ac.  Reservata  potestate  Dne  Etheldrse  Hovell  relict*,  et 
Roberto  Long  &c.  P.C.C.  13  Duke 


fiHill  of  Jfraitns  Jtobdl,  1671 

I  Francis  Hovell  of  Portsmouth  in  the  County  of  South1011,  gent,  being  sicke  but  of  good 
and  sound  mind  and  memory  doe  make  and  ordaine  this  my  last  will  and  testament.  I  give 
unto  my  loving  ffriend,  Mr  Phillip  James,  the  sume  of  fforty  pounds  due  vnto  mee  from  Dame 
Etheldred  Hovell  of  King’s  lyn  in  the  County  of  Norfolke,  widd,  my  sister  in  law  for  halfe 
a  yeare’s  rent  the  eighteenth  day  of  this  instant  May  for  mine  Anuity.  And  I  do  appoint  him 
to  be  Executor  of  this  my  will  desireing  him  to  pay  my  debts  and  see  me  decently  buried. 
The  nyneteeth  day  of  May  167f.  Probatum  nono  die  Junij  1671  Juramt0  Phillippi  James, 
Executoris.  P.C.C.  78  Duke. 

About  the  time  of  the  making  of  this  will  there  was  living  at  Portsmouth  a  certain 
William  Hovell,  gentleman,  Surveyor  of  the  Port  or  Custom  House  there  and  possibly  one  of  the 
testator’s  cousins.  He  removed  to  Ireland  where  his  will  was  proved  in  1678,  and  became  the 
ancestor  of  a  family  which  will  be  treated  of  later  on. 


HOVELL  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


31 


Will  of  lame  (EtljdiirrD  Hobdl,  1685. 

I  Dame  Etheldred  Hovell  widd  A  Relict  of  Sr  William  Hovell  late  of  Hillington  in  ye 
County  of  Norfolk  doe  this  nyneteenth  day  of  December,  1683,  declare  this  my  last  will.  I 
commend  my  Soule  into  the  hands  of  Almightie  God.  My  minde  is  that  my  Bodie  be  buried 
in  the  Church  of  Hillington  as  neare  the  bodie  of  my  late  husband  as  may  be.  I  give  vnto 
my  three  daughters,  Clemence  the  wife  of  Charles  Stuart  Esquire,  Dorothie  the  wife  of  Martin 
Folks,  Esquire,  and  Etheldred  Hovell,  all  those  landes  etc.  in  Dockinge,  late  Sir  William  Hovell’s, 
which  were  sold  to  one  Mast1'  Cooke  and  afterwards  purchased  of  him  by  mee  and  doe  now 
stand  charged  with  an  annuity  of  Seaventie  pounds  per  Annum  to  my  brother  Mastr  Richard 
Hovell.  Ynto  my  daughter  Etheldred  Hovell,  Wheele  meadowe  in  Terrington  in  Marshland  and 
lands  in  West  Walton  and  Tilney,  Alsoe  my  ffarme  and  lands  in  Pickenham,  Sporle  and  Coates 
in  Norffblke,  and  all  my  messuages  Ac.  not  alreadie  setled  upon  my  other  two  daughters.  I 
doe  appoynt  the  Guardianshipp  and  education  of  my  said  daughter  Etheldred  Hovell  vnto  my 
worthy  fireind  John  Anguish  of  Kings  Lynne  Esquire,  and  to  my  loving  kinsman  Thomas 
Coveil  of  Horningsberth  in  the  Countie  of  Suffblke,  Gent.  All  my  pictures  to  be  equallie 
divided  betweene  my  said  three  daughters.  I  give  to  nurse  Gell  the  summe  of  ffortie  pounds 
and  all  my  Cloathes  and  that  little  plate  which  I  have  and  all  my  lioushold  stuffe  at  my 
Lodgings  or  in  the  house  with  mee  att  the  tyme  of  my  death.  Also  vnto  the  poore  of 
Hillington  ffive  pounds,  vnto  the  poore  of  Saint  Andrew’s  Holborne  dive  pounds,  and  to  the 
poore  of  South  Lynne  three  pounds.  My  minde  and  will  is  that  my  ffu n era  11  be  very  private 
and  without  mourning  Coaches  or  Escutchions.  I  ordaine  my  freind  Mr  Anguish  A  my  said 
kinsman  Mr  Covell  executors  in  trust  for  my  daughter  Etheldred  vntill  she  shall  be  capable  of 
taking  vpon  her  selfe  the  Executorshipp. 

Probatum  decimo  tertio  die  Februrii  1683  juramento  Thome  Covell  vnius  Executorum  Ac. 
Probatum  decimo  Septimo  die  Junij  1684  Jurarn  Johannis  Anguish  vnius  Ac. 

P.C.C.  135  Hare. 


Mill  of  Jtidjarb  Jjobdl,  1715. 

Richard  Hovell  of  Gaywood  co.  Norfolk  Esqr.  I  bequeath  all  my  messuages  Ac.  in 
Winfarthing  in  the  said  county  unto  Penelope  my  wife.  All  my  goods  to  her  and  to  her  heirs 
and  assignes  for  ever.  She  to  be  my  executrix.  This  17th  day  of  September  1713.  Probate 
2  Nov.  1715.  Norwich  Archdeaconry,  Will  Book,  1715,  1716,  fo.  119. 


Mill  of  fntdope  Ipobdl,  1717. 

Penelope  Hovell,  relict  of  Richard  Hovell  Esqr  of  Hellington,  8th  Oct.  1717.  I  give  to 
my  dear  sister  Mary  Wasteneys  at  Off  Church  in  Warwickshire  three  hundred  pounds,  and  after 
her  death  to  goe  to  my  nephew  Charles  Whitwick  or  to  my  sister  y®  Lady  Catherine  Wastneys, 
and  her  daughter  Huchenson  to  have  thirty  guineas  out  of  itt.  And  I  give  my  neice  Huchenson’s 


32 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


daughter  Mrs  Kitty  a  large  silver  tankard  Ac.  To  my  nephew  Sandys  Huchenson  I  give  my 
great  Bible  wth  cutts  and  a  large  silver  seal  and  gold  ring.  To  my  nephew  Wasteneys  Huchenson, 
Atturney  all  the  Arrears  due  to  me  from  Charles  Chappie  att  the  time  the(y)  stoped  my  anuity 
whilst  the  Chancery  suit  went  on,  for  the  charges  in  the  Law.  And  my  good  friend  M™ 
Catarine  Waldgrave,  wife  to  M1'  Charles  Waldgrave  the  Goldsmith,  the  fforty  pound  she  has  att 
use  of  mine :  and  I  give  also  to  her  daughter  Mrs  Isabella  Waldegrave  the  ffive  and  twenty 
AA  in  M1  Creirefes  hands  ye  Baker.  I  make  my  trusty  friend  Mra  Waldgrave  my  executrix. 
To  bury  me  by  my  deare  husband  Hovell  in  Hillington  church.  Pbat.  sexto  die  Maij  1718  jur 
Cathae  Waldgrave.  Norwich  Archdeaconry,  Will  Book,  1717,  1718,  fo.  140. 


Mill  of  Militant  Make,  ^rcljbtsljop  of  (Hauler burn,  1751 

I  William  Wake  by  Divine  Providence  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  considering  my  great 
age  and  the  uncertainty  of  Human  life,  doe  this  twelfth  day  of  ffebruary  1731  make  this  my 
last  Will  and  Testament.  I  resign  my  Soul  into  the  hands  of  God  who  gave  it  In  humble 
Confidence  that  he  will  receive  it  into  his  favour  through  the  Meritts  of  his  Dear  Son  Jesus 
Christ  my  only  hope.  My  Body  I  commit  to  the  Earth  in  such  manner  that  my  late  Wife 
may  be  buried  as  near  (as  may  conveniently  be  done)  by  me.  To  the  Parish  of  Sfc  James 
Westminster,  fifty  pounds;  to  that  of  Lambeth,  fforty  pounds;  and  to  that  of  Croydon  fforty 
pounds  if  I  am  buryed  there ;  to  be  disposed  of  in  binding  out  apprentice  children  of  Poor 
House  keepers.  My  Executors  to  present  William  Wake  (the  second  son  of  my  Cousin  Doctor 
Edward  Wake)  to  the  Rectory  of  Overmoigne  in  the  County  of  Dorset,  if  he  be  in  Priests 
Orders.  To  the  Corporation  for  the  Relief  of  Poor  Widows  of  Clergymen  and  their  children, 
One  hundred  pounds.  One  hundred  pounds  to  the  Society  of  the  Propogation  of  the  Gospell. 
My  Books,  Coins,  Medalls,  Cabinetts,  Manuscripts,  Ac.,  to  be  conveyed  with  Care  and  Caution 

to  the  College  of  Christ  Church  in  Oxford.  I  give  the  Dean  of  the  said  College  and  other 

Trustees  (named)  and  their  successors  the  sum  of  One  thousand  pounds  upon  the  trusts 
mentioned  in  a  certain  Deed  Poll  dated  17th  April  1728.  I  also  give  them  my  own  Picture 
to  be  hung  up  with  the  Pictures  of  the  other  Bishopps  who  have  been  bred  in  that  College. 
To  my  successors  in  the  See  of  Canterbury  I  give  the  Pictures  of  Archbishopps  Whitgift, 
Bancroft  and  Juxon,  together  with  that  of  the  Disciples  a  ffishing  which  hangs  over  the 

Chimney  in  the  Presence  Chamber.  All  my  Pictures  and  my  late  Wifes  Pictures,  and  her 

Mothers,  my  Lady  Hovell’s,  the  Queens  Picture  in  my  own  late  Bed  Chamber,  the  ten  small 

Pictures  of  King  Charles  the  first  his  court  Ac.  Ac.  to  be  disposed  of  as  my  Executors  shall 
direct.  I  give  my  Dear  Cozin  Edward  Wake  his  ffather’s  and  his  own  Pictures  which  are  at 
Shapwick.  To  Mary  Wake  the  only  Child  of  my  late  Cozin  William  Wake.  My  Cozen  Dr 
Edward  Wake’s  children  A  his  sister’s  Mrs  Palmer’s,  their  shares  of  the  Legacys  of  ffifty  pounds 
left  them  by  my  ffather.  For  the  use  of  the  Library  of  William  and  Mary  College  in  Virginia 

the  sum  of  ffifty  pounds.  One  hundred  pounds  for  binding  out  Apprentice  such  children  of 

Mrs  Hollins,  daughter  of  Mrl  Hovell  late  of  the  Charter  house,  London,  as  shall  not  have  been 
bound  out  by  myself  or  my  Wife.  To  my  Nephew  William  ffolkes  Esqr  during  the  Continuance 
of  my  Patent  to  him  for  the  Office  of  Apparitor  General  one  annuity  of  ffifty  pounds.  The 
rest  of  my  estate  I  have  disposed  of  by  Deed  Poll.  By  another  Deed  I  have  given  One 

1  Mr.  Richard  Hovell  was  admitted  a  Pensioner  of  the  Charterhouse,  28  June,  1716,  on  the  nomination  of  the 
Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 


HOVELL  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


33 


thousand  pounds  for  a  Charity  School  in  Blandford  Forum  in  the  County  of  Dorsett  and  other 
charitable  use.  I  appoint  my  Nephew  Martin  ffolkes  of  Hillington  Esqr,  Dr  Samuel  Lisle,  and 
Dr  Richard  Chicheley  Executors.  All  disputes  shall  be  referred  to  the  arbitrement  of  my  good 
friends  and  Bretheren,  John  now  Lord  Bishop  of  Oxford  and  Edward  now  Lord  Bishop  of 
Durham. 

I  William  Wake,  by  Divine  Providence  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  in  Complyance  with  the 
earnest  desire  of  Etheldred  my  late  dear  wife  do  by  this  Codicill  bearing  date  the  12th  day 
of  ffebruary  give  unto  my  nephew  Martin  ffolkes  of  Hillington  Esq.  and  Dr  Richard  Chicheley, 
Master  of  the  ffacultys  one  annuity  of  ffifty  pounds  during  the  life  of  my  daughter  Magdalen 
wife  of  William  Churchill  Esqr :  and  one  other  annuity  of  fhfty  pounds  during  the  life  of  my 
daughter  Mary,  wife  of  Dr  John  Lynch  upon  their  several  trusts  to  be  at  the  sole  disposal  of 
my  said  daughters  and  not  subject  to  the  Controll  of  their  present  or  after  taken  husbands. 

I  William  Wake  by  Divine  Providence  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  since  publishing  my 

Will  and  Codicill  have  revoked  all  trusts  concerning  the  Mannor  and  Rectory  of  Over  Moigne. 
By  this  my  second  Codicil  I  devise  all  moneys  received  for  the  said  Mannor  and  Advowson 
unto  my  Executors  in  trust.  Vnto  my  four  daughters  Amie  wife  of  Henry  Seymer  Esqr, 

Dorothy  wife  of  James  Pennyman  Esq.,  Magdalene  wife  of  William  Churchill.  Esqr,  and  Mary 

wife  of  Dr  John  Lynch  One  hundred  pounds  apeice  for  their  sole  use  &  benefit,  which  I  doubt 

not  my  sons  in  law  will  permit.  Expences  of  my  ffuneral  not  to  exceed  ffive  hundred  pounds. 
To  my  son  in  law  Thomas  Bennett  Esq.  &  my  daughter  Etheldred  his  wife,  my  son  in  law 
Richard  Broadrepp  Esqr,  &  my  daughter  Hester  his  wife  and  my  other  sons  in  law  &  their 
wives  ffifty  pounds  apeice  for  mourning.  This  18th  day  of  December  1732. 

This  will  was  proved  with  two  Codicills  the  first  day  of  March  1736,  by  the  oaths  of 
Martin  ffolkes  Esqr,  the  Reverend  Samuel  Lisle  Doctor  in  Divinity  and  Richard  Chicheley 
Doctor  of  Laws,  the  Executors. 

P.C.C.  51  Wake. 


Jflnmtmcnt  anti  Inscription  in  Hillington  ttljnrdj. 

On  the  north  wall  of  the  Chancel  is  a  mural  monument,  with  the  effigies  of  a  gentleman 
in  his  gown,  and  his  wife,  on  their  knees,  thus  inscribed : 

“  The  monument  of  Richard  Hovell  of  Hillington,  in  the  countie  of  Norfolk,  Esq.  ;  being 
of  the  age  of  77  years  and  upwards,  finished  his  course  the  30th  of  November  1611,  in  peace  with 
God,  in  charity  with  all  men,  and  now  resteth  here  with  expectation  of  the  Resurrection,  in 
assurance  of  eternal  glorification.  Margery  Hovell,  wife  of  the  aforesaid  Richard  Hovell  Esq  : 
deceased,  and  one  of  the  daughters  and  heyres  of  John  Ford,  of  Frating,  in  the  Countie  of 
Essex,  Esq. ;  who  having  lyved  vertuously  and  comfortably  with  her  said  husband,  44  years,  did 
beare  unto  him  4  sonnes  and  9  daughters,  whereof  there  are  yet  twelve  alive  to  her  great 
comfort,  being  all  growne  to  the  perfect  state  of  men  and  women.” 

On  the  summit  is  the  shield  of  Hovell ,  sable ,  a  crescent  or  impaling  Ford,  argent,  a  wolf 
salient  sable.” 

Blomefield’s  “  Norfolk,”  vol.  viii,  466. 

F 


34 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Inscription,  JRtl&enhall  ©batted,  Suffolk. 

“  Here  under  Lyeth  the  Body  of  Hugh  Hovell  of  Keninghall  Parke  in  the  County  of 
Norfolke  Esq1'  with  Elizabeth  his  wife,  the  daughter  of  Henry  Warner  of  Wamill  in  this  Parish 
Esqr.  He  left  at  his  death  by  the  said  Elizabeth,  one  only  daughter  marryed  to  Humphrey 
Style  of  Langley  in  the  County  of  Kent  Esqr.  He  departed  this  life  25  of  October  1 690, 
aged  77  years,  in  hope  of  a  joyfull  Resurrection.” 

Arms  :  Hovell,  a  crescent,  impaling  Warner,  Per  bend  indented  two  lleur  de  lis.  Crest :  A 
sea  lion  passant.  Davy  MSS.,  Add.  MSS.  19,095,  fo.  210. 


©it  JUtar  Souths  in  fjcttistm  ffibnrdjtmrb. 

Here  resteth  the  Body  of  Thomas  Hovell  of  this  Parish,  Gent.,  who  departed  this  life 

Feb.  y®  14th,  Anno  Dom.  1701,  setat.  83.  Here  resteth  also  the  Body  of  Anne  y®  wife  of  the 

said  Thomas  Hovell  who  departed  this  life  Aug*  y®  20th  Anno  Dom.  1701,  ajtat.  91. 

Thomasin  the  daughter  of  Thomas  Hovell  of  this  Town,  Gent.,  the  relict  of  the  ltev(l  Mr 

Jacob  Chilton  formerly  Rector  of  Kettleburgh  in  this  County,  and  died  the  widow  of  Mr  John 
Jessop  of  this  Parish,  January  15th,  1737,  in  the  90lk  year  of  her  age 


Jfnmt  the  licgisters  of  Stafford  Jitaro. 

Bridget  daughter  to  Richard  Smythe  bap*  20  March,  1567. 

Margaret  daughter  of  Richard  Smythe  cfc  Margery  his  wyff  bap*  30  May,  1569. 
Mary  daughter  of  Richard  Smythe  bap*  15  November,  1571. 

Richard  sonne  of  Richard  Hovell  alias  Smythe  bapt.  8  January,  1573. 

Anne  daughter  of  Robert  Hovell  alias  Smythe  A  Margery  bapt  23  Dec.  1574. 
William  sonne  of  Richard  &  Margery  Hovell  bapt.  20  Nov.  1576. 


JUcbarfc  Hobdl,  limgbt,  1642 

In  the  seventeenth  century  siege  of  Lynn,  1642,  the  burgesses  and  their  adherents,  about 
five  thousand  in  number,  headed  by  Sir  Hamon  L’Estrange,  Sir  Richard  Hovell  (who  had  been 
knighted  the  previous  year)  and  other  Royalist  gentlemen,  bravely  defended  the  place  for  three 
weeks  against  the  Earl  of  Manchester  with  his  army  of  eighteen  thousand  soldiers ;  but  the  Earl 
of  Newcastle,  who  la)’  at  Lincoln  with  the  King’s  troops,  refusing  to  assist  them  they  were 
compelled  to  surrender.  Sir  Richard  was  one  of  the  hostages  taken  by  the  enemy.  There  is  a 
fine  portrait  of  him  at  Hillington  Hall,  which  was  originally  erected  by  Richard  Hovell,  Esq., 
his  father,  in  1627.  See  “  History  of  Lynn,”  1812,  by  William  Richards,  whose  sympathies, 
however,  were  with  the  Puritans;  “A  Norfolk  Tour,”  2  vols.,  Norwich,  1829  ;  and  “The  Civil 
War  in  the  East  of  England,”  recently  published,  for  brief  details  respecting  this  event. 


HOVELL  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


35 


Dobell  ikbtQree,  (Ptsttatton  of  jSorfolli,  1613. 

j^arl.  1552. 

William  Hovell  of  Stratford  Halle y=f=. Anne  da.  of  Richard  Turner 
in  co.  Norfolk  (Suffolk).  of  Norton. 


Richard  Hovell  of  Straff ord^pMargery  da.  8p  coh.  of  John  Ford  of  Horsley 


Halley. 

or  Prating  in  Essex. 

r 

Bridget  ux. 

W m  Mothe 
of  Lynn. 

Margaret  ux. 
RafeDelahay 
of  Lynn. 

i 

Anne  ux.  George  Golley 
of  St.  Andrews  in  Suf¬ 
folk. 

i 

Elizabeth  ux.  Thos 
Russell  ofRudham 
in  Norfolk. 

Thomazine  ux.  Wil¬ 
liam  Barnes  of  Soame 
in  co.  Cambr. 

Mary  ux.  Wm  Gooding 
of  Mosford  in  Suffolk, 
gent. 

- 1 - - 1 - 1 - 

1.  Richard  Ho  vell=p  Frances  da.  of  Thomas  2.  William.  3.  Anthony.  4.  Thomas.  Catherine  1st  mar.  to  Francis  Fysk  of  Bynham 


of  Helington  in 
Norfolk. 


Fernley  of  Creting  St. 
Mary’s  in  co.  Suffolk. 


co.  Norfolk;  2ly  toEdwd  Mordant  of  Hempsted 
in  Essex  ;  3<Fy  to  Alexander  Dering  of  Kent. 


1 .  Richard  Hovill. 


2.  Francis,  ob.  s.p. 


3.  William. 


Jane,  ob.  s.p. 


i^ebtgrce,  JBebe’s  UntgJjts,  2|ari.  5801. 

Norff.  Sr  William  Hovell  of  Hillington  Norff.  Kted  5  June  1660.  See  S<‘  Edward  By  she’s  visit,  of  Norff,  144B,  coat  crest 
Quarterings  ivith  Pedigr.  Sab.  a.  crescent  or.  Crest  a  Lyon  sejant  Erm. 


Richard  Hovell  of  Hillmgton=rFrances  dr  of  Thomas  Fernley  of  Creting 


Esqr. 


Suff.  Esqr. 


Sr  Richard  Hovell  of  Hillington=f  Dorothy  da  of  S1'  Thomas  Chichley  of  Wimple 


K‘. 


Cambr.  Kt. 


Sr  William  Hovell  of  Hillington  neer  Lynn  Norff.  he  dyed=j=Etheldred  da  heir  of  Thom.  Lylly  of  South  Lynne  Norf.  of  Sccdes  How 


4th  of  March  1669  xtat  33  8p  was  buried  at  Hillington , 


had  a  grant  of  Arms  by  Sr  Edward  Byshe.  See  his  book  of  Docketts  of  Grants. 


1.  Clementina  dr  8p  coheir  maned 
to  Nicolas  Steward  son  <f~  heir  of  Sr 
Nicolas  Steward  of  Hartley  Manduit 
Hants,  bar1.  She  is  living  1710. 


2.  Dorothy  dr  8p  coheir  mar.  to  Martin 
Fowks,  of  Greys  Inne  and  of  Docking 
Norff.  by  that  match  if  hath  severall 
children. 


3.  Etheldred  dr  8p  coheir  mar.  to  William  Wake 
Dr  D.  Rector  of  St  Annes  §’c  8p  Sl  James’  Parish 
in  Midds.  <ff  after  Lord  Bishop  of  Lincoln  living 
1710  after  Ld  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 


Sr  Symeon  Stuart  of  Hartley  Manduit  in  Hants  baronet  now  liveing  1710 
a  worthy  ingenious  Gentleman  8)'  my  very  good  friend  Iff  acquaintance. 

Peter  le  Neve  Norroy. 


By  his  marriage  with  Dorothy,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Chicheley,  the  descendants  of  Sir  Richard  Hovell  became 
Founder’s  kin  of  Henry  Chichele,  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  their  collateral  ancestor,  at  All  Souls’  College,  Oxford.  Their 
pedigrees,  Hovell’s,  ffolkes’s,  Stuart’s,  Wake’s,  etc.,  are  given  in  “  Stemmata  Chicheleana”  and  other  works  bearing  upon  this 
subject. 


36 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


iJebtsree,  Dobell  of  ^tlltngton. 


William  Smyth,  otherwise  called  William  Hovel],  of  Ashfield  Magna,  co.  Suffolk,  named=pJoan,  his 
in  Survey  1512  (Rentals  A'  Surveys,  Public  Record  Office,  )  () .  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  26  Jan.  1540,  I  wife,  liv- 
proved  7  March  following  ;  bequests  to  many  of  his  grandchildren.  |  ing  1540. 


William  Hovell  alias= 
Smyth  of  Haughley, 
co.  Suffolk,  gent. ; 
born  circa  1510.  Will 
Arch.  Sudb.  7  May 

1582,  proved  6  May 

1583. 


:Anne,  da.  of  Richard 
Turner  of  Norton, 
co.  Suffolk  ( Norfolk 
Visitation  1 613), 
Harl.  MSS.  1552, 
1560,  &c. ;  died  be¬ 
fore  her  husband. 


Joan,  wife  of  John 
Salter  of  Badwell. 
In  Will,  Arch.  Sudb. 
1577,  names  her 
daus.  Joan  Mas- 
ham  and  Margt. 
Monyngs. 


- 1 - 

Amy,  wife 
of  ...  . 
James : 
had  issue 
in  1540. 


John  Smyth  of  llad-: 
well  Ash,  co.  Suff. 
Will  P.C.C.  23  More 
1553,  proved  1555  ; 
Inq.  p.m.  1  &  2  P.  &  M. 


Chi’istian,  sister  to 
Robert  Cooke,  Vicar 
of  Haughley.  Her 
Will,  P.C.C.36Nodes. 
was  proved  in  1558. 


A 

Hovell  of  Badwell. 


Margery,  wife 
of  Robt. Cooke 
of  Badwell. 
SeeCookePed- 
igree,  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


Katherine, 
wife  of  Stephen 
W oodgate  of  East 
Bergholt,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk  ;  had  issue 
1582. 


_  -| — j - 1 - - - 

Margaret.,  wife  Richard  Hovell  of  Haughley,  and1 
of  .  .  .  De-  after  of  Stratford,  co,  Suff.  (1567 
beuey,  1582.  - — 1576),  and  of  Hillington,  co. 

—  Norff.,  Esq.;  bom  circa  1534. 

Elizabeth, wife  Will,  P.C.C.  16  Fenner,  4  Oct. 
of  .  .  .  Smyth  ;  1608,  prob.  12  Feb.  1611.  M.I. 

had  issue,  1582.  in  Hillington  church  ;  Inq.  p.m. 


Katherine,  wife 
of  George  Fiske 
1608;  she  remar. 
(2)  Edw.  Mor- 
daunt  and  (3) 
Alexander  Der¬ 
ing  of  Kent. 


Elizabeth,  wife 
ofThomas  Rus¬ 
sell  of  Bad- 
ham,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk.  Harl.  MS. 
1552. 


Thomasine, 
wife  of Wm. 
Barnes  of 
Soham,  co. 
Cambridge. 
Harl.  MS. 
1552. 


Bridget,  wife  of 
William  Motile 
of  King’s  Lynn, 
1608.  Baptised 
at  Stratford, 
1567. 


Margery,  da.  &  coh.  of 
John  Ford  of  Prating, 
co.  Essex,  gent.,  who 
made  Will  31  May 
1576.  P.C.C.  4  Daugli- 
tre.  See  his  ped.  in 
Essex  Visit"*,  Harl.  Soc. 


WilliamSmyth 
a  1  s .  Hovell, 
named,  1540, 
in  his  grand¬ 
father’s  will. 


Hugh  Hovell  als.=f=Aune. 
Smyth  of  Haugh¬ 
ley.  Will,  Arch. 

Sudb. ,7  February 
1596,  proved  4 
April  1597.  A\ 

Pedigree  A. 


Margaret,  wife  of 
Ralph  Dc  la  Haye 
of  King’s  Lynn, 
1608.  Bapt.  at 
Stratford,  Suffolk, 
1569. 


Anne,  bapt.  at  Strat¬ 
ford  1574 ;  wife  of 
George  Jolly  of  St. 
Andrew’s,  Suffolk, 
gent.  He  was  dead 
1622.  Hamondc.Ric- 
card,  Jac.  I.,  B.  &  A. 


Margery,  2d  wife  of 
Thomas  Asty  of  East 
Dereham,  gent.,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C.  60, 
Seager,  3  Jan:  1630, 
naming  the  Hovells. 


Richard  Hovell  of= 
Hillington,  Esq., 
bapt.  at  Stratford 
1573 ;  mar.  settle¬ 
ment  18  Feb.  40 
Eliz.  Will,  P.C.C. 
13  Brent,  23  April 
1649 ;  proved  28 
June  1653. 


:Frances,  da.  of  Thos. 
Femley  of  Creeting, 
co.  Suff.,  Esq.  Her 
sister  Elizabeth  mar. 
Henry  Dade,  Esq., 
who  names  the  Ho¬ 
vells  in  his  will. 
P.C.C.  368  Alehin, 
1561.  She  died  1648. 


William  Hovell  of  Gay -=j= Alice,  dau. 


wood,  co.  Norff.,  gent., 
2d  son  ;  bapt.  at  Strat¬ 
ford,  1576  ;  of  Little 
Massingham,  1647  ; 
sold  the  Haughley  es¬ 
tates. 


of  Jeffrey 
Cobbe,Esq. 
Made  Will, 
Arch.  Nor¬ 
wich,  in 
Jan.  1635. 


A 

Pedigree  A. 


Anthony  Hovell, 
3d  sou,  of  Holl- 
ington,gent.  Will, 
Arch.  Norw.,  10 
Aug.  1646,  de¬ 
vising  all  to 
Dorothy  his  re¬ 
lict. 


Thomas  Hovell, 
4tli  son,  mar. 
Dorothy  Scam- 
bler,  and  had 
two  daughters, 
Dorothy  and 
Frances,  devi¬ 
sees  of  Mary 
Goodwin,  1647. 


Mary,  wife  of  Wm. 
Goodwin  of  Mart- 
lesham,  co.  Suff., 
Gent.;  bap.  at  Strat¬ 
ford,  1571  ;  mar. 
20  June  1608 ;  ob. 
s.p. ;  made  Will, 
Arch.  Norw.,  27 
Nov.  1647. 


Sir  Richard  Hovell, =pDorothy,  eldest  dau. 


son  and  heir,  of  Hil¬ 
lington,  a  brave  Roy¬ 
alist  ;  knighted  by 
King  Charles  21 
March  1641 ;  bur.  26 
Aug.  1654;  portrait 
at  Hillington. 


of  Sir  Thos.  Chiche- 
ley  of  Cambr.  She 
mar.  2d  Wm.  Sandys, 
Esq.  ( Sandys  c.  Ho¬ 
vell,  Bridge’s  Do¬ 
pe’ ons),  and  was  liv¬ 
ing  1675. 


William  Hovell  of 
Hillington,  Gent., 
mar.  Anne,  dan.  and 
coh.  of  Richard 
Bulwer  of  Harpley, 
Norff.,  by  Grissel 
Barsham.  Elsing  c. 
Hovell,  Chas.I.,B.#'A. 


Thomas  Hovell,  Gent., 
b.  1614  ;  bought  lands 
in  Pettistree,  &c.,  1648 ; 
mar.  Ann  Gosnold,  and 
had  issue ;  bur.  at 
Pettistree  17  February 
1701.  M.I.  in  Pettistree 
churchyard. 


Frances,  wife  of  Edward 
Gurney  of  East  Barsham, 
co.  Norfolk,  Esq.,  1647. 


Elizabeth,  wife  ofThomas 
Coulson ;  devisee  of  her 
aunt  Goodwin,  1647. 


John  Hovell. 
Harl.  MS. 
1560. 

Alice,  wife  of 
John  Frost, 
Gent. 
Blomefield. 


Sir  William  HovelF 
of  Hillington,  Knt. 
Will,  P.C.C.  13  Duke, 
29  Juno  1669 ;  prob. 
13  Feb.  1670 ;  bur.  in 
Hillington  chancel. 
M.I. 


=Etheldred,  dau.  and  heir  of 
Thos.  Lilly  of  South  Lynn, 
co.  Norf.,  Gent.,  and  of  Cle¬ 
mens,  his  wife,  who  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  131  Bruce,  1663. 
Her  Will,  P.C.C.  135  Harte,  ‘ 
is  dated  19  Dec.  1683. 


Richard  Hovell  of  Gay-=Penelope,  dau.  &  coh. 
wood,  co.  Norff.,  Esq.  of  William  Sandys, 
Will,  Arch.  Norw.,  17 
Sept.  1713  ;  ob.  s.p.  23 
aged  70 ; 

Hillington 


Oct.  l7lo 
buried  in 
church. 


Esq.,  of  Askham,  co. 
Notts.  Her  Will, 
Arch.  Norw.,  8  Oct. 
1717,  was  proved  9 
June  following. 


Francis  Hovell  of 
Portsmouth,  Gent. 
Sandys  c.  Hovell. 
He  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  78  Duke,  19 
May  1671 ;  proved 
9  June  following. 


- 1 — 1 — n 

Thomas  Hovell 
&  Henry,  ob.  s.p. 
Harl.  MS.  1103. 

Jane,  ob.  s.p., 
and  Dorothy. 
Harl.  MS.  1103. 


T 


CharlesStuart,son-rClemenceHovell,  Martin  ffolkes  of  Gray’s=pDorothyHovell,dau.  William  Wake,  D.D.,=j-Etheldred 


and  heir  of  Sir 
Nicholas  Stuart  of 
Hartley  Maundit, 
co.  Hants,  Bart. ; 
living  1683. 


dau.  and  coheir ; 
living  in  1710 ; 
she  mar.  2dly, 
SirThomas  Mont¬ 
gomery. 


Inn,  Esq.,  and  after  of 
Hillington ;  Solicitor- 
General  1695.  Will, P.C.C. 
158  Eedes,  19  Sept.  1705  : 
proved  2  April  1706. 


A 


and  coheir.  Her 
Will,  P.C.C.  268 
Bolton,  was  proved 
in  1724 ;  portrait 
at  Hillington. 


afterwards  Archbishop 
of  Canterbury.  Will, 
P.C.C.  51  Wake,  12  Feb. 
1731  ;  proved  1  March 
1736. 


A 


Hovell, da. 
and  co¬ 
heir. 


— 1 — 1 — I 
Lillius, 
Thomas 
and 

William 
died  in 
infancy. 


A 


UOVELL  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


37 


-petitgm  SI.  Dobell  of  $tUtngton. 

William  Smyth  als.  Hovell  of  Great  Ashfield,  co.  Suffolk ;  born  circa  1480 ;  named^pJoan,  named  in 
in  terrier,  1512,  Rentals  and  Surveys,  P.R.O.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  26  Jan.  1540,  proved  I  her  husband’s 
7  March  following’,  names  many  grandchildren.  i  Will,  1540. 


William  Hovell  als. =p A  nne,  da.  of  Richard 


Smyth  of  Haugliley, 
co.  Suffolk,  gent. ; 
born  circa  1510.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  7  May 
1582,  proved  6  May 
1683. 


Turner  of  Norton, 
co.  Suffolk  ( Norfolk 
Vi  s  i  t  a t  i on  16  13), 
Hurl.  MSS.  1552, 
1560,  &c. 


Joan,  wife  of  John 
Salter  of  Badwell. 
Her  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.  1577,  names 
her  daus.  Joan 
Masham  and  Mar¬ 
garet  Monvngs. 


Amy,  wife 
of  ...  . 
James,  in 
1540 ;  had 
issue. 


John  Smyth  of  Bad- 
wellAsh.  WillP.C.C. 
23  More,  23  May 
1553,  Inoj.  p.m. 


Hovell 


‘Christian,  sister  to 
Robert  Cooke,  Vicar 
of  Haughley.  Her 
Will,  P.C.C.36  Nodes, 
proved  1558. 


Margery,  wife 
of  Robt.  Cooke 
of  Badwell. 
Harl.MS.1560, 
Ped.  of  Cooke. 


A\ 

of  Badwell. 


Katherine,  wife 
of  Stephen  Wood- 
gate  of  East 
Bergholt ;  named 
in  her  grand¬ 
father’s  Will 
1540. 


Richard  Hovell  of  Haughley1 
and  after  of  Stratford,  co. 
Suffolk,  and  Hillington,  co. 
Norff.,  Esq.;  born  circa  1534. 
Will,  P.C.C.  16  Fenner,  4  Oct. 
1608,  proved  12  Feb.  1611. 
M.I.  in  Hillington  church. 


T1 


Margery,  da.  and 
coll,  of  John  Ford 

William 

HugliHovell  als. Smyth=r  Anne, 

Margaret,  wife  of 

Hovell 

of  Haughley.  Will, 

named 

....  Debeney, 

of  Horsley  and 

alias 

Arch.  Sudb.  7  February 

in  her 

1582. 

Fra  ting,  co.  Essex, 

Smyth, 

1596,  proved  4  April 

bus- 

— 

who  made  Will, 

living 

1597 ;  named  in  his 

band’s 

Elizabeth,  wife  of 

P.C.C.;  4Dauglitre 
31  May  1676. 

1540. 

grandfather’s  Will 
1540. 

~T~  1~ 

Will. 

.  .  .  Smyth,  1582; 
had  issue. 

“1 

Mary,  wife  of  William 
Goodwin  of  Martles- 
hain,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.; 
mar.  6  June  1622. 
Her  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.  27  Nov.  1647, 
proved  19  Feb.  foil. ; 
names  her  Gaywood 
cousins.  She  ob.  s.p. 


William  Hovell  of  Gay— 
wood,  co.  Norff.,  gent., 
2d  son,  heir  to  Hugh 
Hovell  of  Holkham, 
1616,  who  left  him  his 
lands  in  Haughley ; 
bapt.  at  Stratford,  1576; 
of  Little  Massingham, 
1642. 


Cobbe  Hovell,  eldest  son.  Devisee 
of  his  uncle  Thomas  Cobbe  of  Wol- 
verton,  co.  Norfolk,  gent.,  1612 ; 
living  1636.  Atkinson  c.  Hovell, 
Bridges  VI,  Depositions. 


Alice,  born  1575,  da. 
of  Geoffrey  Cobbe  of 
Sandringham,  co. 
Norff.,  Esq.,  who 
made  Will  P.C.C. 
1581.  Her  Will,  Arch. 
Norw.,  Jan.  1635,  was 
proved  28  Feb.  fol¬ 
lowing;  aged60,l  635. 


HugliHovell  of  Hoik-  Richard 
ham,  co.  Norff.,  gent,  and 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  Martha, 
28  Oct.  1616,  proved  named 
27  Nov.  following;  1616  in 
lands  in  Haughley  their 
to  Wm.  Hovell  of  father’s 
Gaywood, his  cousin.  Will. 
Ob.  s.p. 


Mary,  Dorothy 
and  Elizabeth 
were  married 
and  had  issue 
when  their 
brother  made 
his  Will,  Oct. 
1616. 


Anne,  wife 
of  . .  .  Back 
in  1596 ; 
had  son, 
HugliBack, 
and  dau., 
Martha 
Back,  in 
1616. 


Temperance,  eldest  da., 
wife  of  Robert  Scrime  als. 
Cremer  of  Little  Massing- 
ham,  co.  Norfolk,  gent., 
1635 ;  devisee  of  Mary 
Goodwin,  her  aunt,  1647 ; 
she  was  aged  31  in  1636. 


Elizabeth,  devisee  of  her  grand¬ 
mother  Elizabeth  Ashton  (late 
Cobbe)  of  Wolverton,  widow, in 
her  will,  Arch.  Norw.,  Jan.  1612 ; 
mar.  Thomas  Atkinson  of  Cam¬ 
bridge,  gent.,  1636.  Atkinson  c. 
Hovell,  Chas.  I,  B.  8,"  A.,  AA.  38, 8. 


Alice  Hovell,  youngest 
da.,  1635 ;  aged  19  in 
1636,  was  them  of  Hill¬ 
ington.  Atkinson  c. 
Hovell,  Bridges  VI.  De- 
p’cons.  Born  circa 
1618. 


William  Hovell,  2d  son,  named  in 
his  mother’s  Will  1635 ;  supposed 
to  be  identical  with  Wm.  Hovell 
who  settled  in  Ireland  1641,  but 
made  his  Will  at  Portsmouth  in 
1669.  See  Hovell  of  Ireland. 


Elizabeth,  daughter=j=Hugh  Hovell,  youngest  son,  of  Little  Mas — -Martha,  sister  of  Thomas  Hul- 

bert  of  Fulham,  co.  Middx., 
2d  wife ;  mar.  lie.  Faculty 
Office,  8  Dec.  1669,  she  then 
aged  30.  Will  P.C.C.  5  King, 
26  Dec.  1678. 


of  Heuiy  Warner 
of  Wamhill  in  Mil- 
denhall,  co.  Suffolk, 
Esq. 


singham,  co.  Norfolk,  gent.,  1636.  Atkinson 
c.  Hovell,  Bridges  VI,  Dep’cons.  Born  circa 
1613;  of  Kenningliall,  co.  Norff.,  Esqr., 
1678.  M.I.  in  Mildenhall  chancel,  Suffolk. 
Died  25  Oct.  1690. 


Humphrey  Style,  Esq.,  of  Beckenham,  co.  Kent,  and  Kenninghallp=Mary  Hovell,  sole  da.  and  heir ;  aged  20  in  1678,  as  appeal's  from 


Place,  co.  Norfolk.  Will  P.C.C.  152  Tenisou,  27  March  1718 ; 
proved  4  July  1718  by  Humphrey  Style,  his  son. 


her  mar.  lie.  (Vicar  General)  dated  16  Dec.  of  that  year  :  was  then 
of  St.  Paul’s,  Covent  Garden,  spinster. 


Humphrey  Style,  son 
and  heir  in  1718 ; 
died  s.p. 


Sir  John  Elwill,  Bart.,  1st  hus-=Elizabeth  Style,  ultimately  sole=Henry  Bartlett,  2d  husband, 
band,  living  in  1618;  ob.  s.p.  da.  and  heiress.  She  died  6  Hasted’ 8  Kent,  vol.  i,  87. 
Hasted’s  Kent.  June  1731. 


The  Will  of  Humphrey  Style,  Esq.,  of  Langley,  in  Beckenham,  co.  Kent  (P.C.C.  152  Tenison)  is  dated  27th  March  1718. 
and  contains  the  following  passages : — “  To  be  buried  in  my  vault  in  the  South  Isle  of  Beckenham  church  amongst  my 
ancestors.  Upon  the  marriage  of  my  daughter  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Sir  John  Elwill,  I  settled  Manors  &c.  in  Kent  to  uses 
as  are  mentioned  in  the  settlements  for  the  benefit  of  said  daughter,  her  husband  and  their  children.  I  brought  Frances 
Shippe  out  of  Norfolk  from  her  parents.  She  thus  became  destitute  of  the  comfort  and  assistance  she  would  have  had 
from  them.  I  give  her  £500  if  living  with  me  at  the  time  of  my  death,  and  also  all  the  household  ffunuture  which  shall 
then  be  in  my  now  dwelling  house  or  appartment  at  Kenninghall  Place  in  the  County  of  Norfolk.  Unto  my  son  Humfrey 
Style  (whom  I  make  with  Mr.  Edward  Gilbert  of  Breadstreet,  London,  my  Executors)  the  rest  of  my  messuages,  lands, 
goods,  &c.”  This  will  was  proved  4th  July  1718,  by  the  oath  of  Humphrey  Style,  one  of  the  Executors. 


oUrll  of  Jrclanti. 


William  Hovell  the  Elder  of  Portsmouth  in  the  County  of  Southto“  gent.  Surveyor  of  the 


said  Port  or  Custom  House,  the  22n<1  Decr  1669.  My  wife  Grissill  Hovell  of  Corke.  My 
sone  William  Hovell.  My  daughter  Ellen  Browne  the  wife  of  Thomas  Browne  of  Corke, 
Attorney.  My  grandchild  Sarah  Browne.  My  daughters  Grissell  Hovell  and  Jane  Hovell. 
My  friends  Mr  Hugh  Salsbury  of  Portsmouth  Esq1'  and  Mr  Ed  :  Mereweather,  Citizen  and  Haber¬ 
dasher  of  hattes,  to  be  overseers.  Mr  Heathe  to  have  20s  to  preach  my  funerall  sermon  out 

of  that  text  in  the  6  Romans  7  verse  (“  For  he  that  is  dead  is  freed  from  sin.  )  To 

Richard  Clements  two  suits  of  apparell  &  two  hatts.  One  hatte  to  Passu  fulke  &■  one  hatte 
to  Henry  Beare  A  one  sheet  and  one  quilt  to  my  land  lady  Mollish,  and  my  best  sheete  to 
be  my  winding  sheet.  Probate  24th  May  1678.  The  will  may  be  found  amongst  the  Cloyne 
Series  at  the  Record  Office,  Dublin. 

William  Hovell  went  to  Ireland  in  1641  and  served  under  Lords  Broghill  and  Inchequin. 
He  became  a  merchant  at  Kinsale,  co.  Cork,  and  was  “Sovereign”  or  Mayor  of  that  place  in 
1656.  He  was  forty-four  years  old  when  Prince  Rupert  occupied  Kinsale,  as  appears  from  a 
deposition  which  Dr.  Caulfield  has  printed  in  the  Appendix  to  his  edition  of  the  Kinsale 

Council  Book.  This  would  give  1610  as  the  approximate  date  of  his  birth.  His  descendants 

believe  that  he  was  a  scion  of  the  Hillington  Hovells,  one  of  whom,  Francis  Hovell,  the 
brother  of  Sir  William,  was  living  at  Portsmouth  when  he  was  Surveyor  of  the  Custom  House 
there.  Now  Hugh  Hovell,  of  Kenninghall,  in  Norfolk,  Francis  Hovell’s  cousin,  had  a  brother 
William  Hovell,  who  exactly  corresponds  with  his  Irish  namesake.  He  is  last  mentioned  in  1637 
in  Chancery  Proceedings  connected  with  his  mother’s  will.  He  was  then  about  six  and  twenty 
years  of  age,  and  able  to  make  a  start  in  life  with  the  legacy  which  she  bequeathed  him. 
(See  Pedigrees,  Hovell  of  Hillington.)  And  there  was  another  contemporary  William  Hovell, 
brother  of  Sir  Richard,  who  married  Anne,  daughter  of  Richard  Bulwer,  by  Grissel  his  wife, 
concerning  whose  later  life  we  seem  to  be  equally  in  the  dark. 


Grissell  Hovell  of  the  City  of  Cork,  widow.  My  body  to  be  decently  buried  with  my 
grandsonne  William  Browne  deceased,  sonne  of  my  sonne  in  law  Thomas  Browne  gent.  My 
sonne  William  Hovell  :  my  daughter  Browne  and  her  daughter  Sarah  Browne.  My  cousin 


HOVELL  OF  IRELAND. 


39 


Jonathan  Pirrit :  my  daughters  Grissell  Hovell  and  Jane  Hovell.  One  of  my  drinking  cups 
with  ears  :  my  tabby  mantle :  large  Irish  cloathes  chests :  wrought  dimity  mantle,  Jrc.  Ac. 
My  dear  sonne  Thomas  Browne  gent,  and  my  kinsman  Jonathan  Pirrit  to  be  overseers. 

This  will,  now  in  the  Record  Office  at  Dublin,  has  an  heraldic  seal,  very  rudely  engraved, 
as  of  some  animal  running.  Testatrix  is  supposed  to  have  been  a  Cork  person. 


ffiiill  of  Militant  Itobdl,  1697. 


William  Hovell  of  the  City  of  Cork,  1st  May  1697.  Hugh  Hovell  my  son  and  heir. 
My  two  daughters  Jane  and  Grace  Hovell.  My  nephew  Edward  Browne  son  of  Thomas  Browne 
of  the  City  of  Cork,  gentleman,  begotten  of  the  body  of  my  eldest  sister  Hellena  Browne  alias 
Hovell  deceased :  My  friend  John  Hawkins  to  be  guardian  of  my  son  Hugh ;  failing  whom  the 
Revd  Edward  Synge  to  be  guardian.  My  mother  in  law  Grace  Beare.  One  of  the  witnesses 
is  Matthew  Fowkes.  The  will  was  proved  on  the  1 1th  of  July  1698.  On  the  seal  is  a  shield 
charged  with  a  chevron,  and  in  base  a  crescent.  In  chief  there  is  a  smaller  crescent,  evidently 
for  difference,  indicating  its  having  belonged  to  a  second  son. 


ffitill  of  Hugh  ISobdl,  1709- 

Hugh  Hovell  of  the  City  of  Corke  gent.,  5th  April  1709.  To  be  buried  with  my  dear 
Father  and  Mother  in  my  vault  at  St.  Peter’s  Church.  My  cousin  Edward  Browne  and  good 
friend  Mr  Hugh  Mitchell  of  Cork  to  be  Trustees  for  my  sister  Jane  Hill,  wife  of  Charles  Hill, 
with  remainder  to  my  nephew,  her  son  Richard  Hill.  To  the  younger  children  of  my  sister 
Grace  Farmer.  My  cousins  Mary  Browne  daughter  of  my  uncle  Thomas  Browne ;  Hannah 
Browne;  Martha  Browne  daughter  of  John  Browne  deceased.  Friend  William  Dobbins,  Clerk  in 
the  Custom  House  of  Corke.  To  Mrs.  Hannah  Hawkins  widow  of  Mr.  John  Hawkins.  To 
her  daughter  Hannah  Hawkins  my  silver  Tankard  and  my  Indian  Cabinet  with  shells.  My 
cosen  Parnell  Ruddock.  Friend  Benjamin  Green,  Lieutenant  in  Tilcombs  Regiment.  A  tombstone 
to  be  placed  on  my  father’s  grave  in  Peter’s  Church.  Fifty  pounds  to  be  laid  out  on  the 
erecting  of  a  Pyramid  or  Obelisque  of  free  stone  or  lime  stone  to  stand  at  convenient  distance 
in  the  street  at  Corke  over  right  the  front  of  the  New  Exchange :  my  name  and  Arms  to  be 
hewn  on  the  said  pyramid,  the  time  of  my  decease  and  what  else  my  two  trustees  may  think 
fit.  My  sister  Grace  Farmer  only  executrix.  My  intention  in  making  the  trust  for  my  sister 

Jane  is  that  the  estate  which  my  father  acquired  by  his  great  industry  may  not  be  torn  to 

pieces  by  the  creditors  of  my  unfortunate  brother  in  law  Charles  Hill.  Probatum  8  Nov. 
1720,  G  rati  jo  Farmer  uxoris  Robti  Farmer. 

The  seal  to  this  will  is  very  imperfect,  but  seems  to  represent  a  shield  bearing  a  chevron. 

Over  a  helmet  is  the  crest,  a  crescent  on  a  wreath.  The  “  pyramid,”  if  ever  erected,  and  the 

“  New  Exchange  ”  have  long  since  disappeared. 


40 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


of  Jlflotmt  i&obeli,  co.  Cork. 


William  Hovell,  supposed  to  be  descended  from  the  Hovells  of  Suffolk  ;  born  circa  1610  ;= 
arrived  in  Ireland,  1641  ;  served  under  Lord  Brogbill  and  Lord  Inchquin  ;  “  Sovereign  ” 
(or  Mayor)  of  Kinsale,  co.  Cork,  1656  ;  died  at  Portsmouth  in  1670,  aged  60.  Will  dated 
22  Oct.  1669 ;  proved  24  May  1678. 


Grissell, . 

made  Will  31  July 

1674,  proved  Aug. 

1675. 


William  Hovell  of  Mt.  Hovell,  co.= 
Cork;  Mayor  of  Cork,  1694  ;  died, 
1698 ;  bur.  in  St.  Peter’s  Church, 
Cork.  Will  dated  1  May  1697, 
proved  11  July  1698. 


Grace,  da.  of  Richard 
Beare  of  Beare  Forest, 
co.  Cork,  1674  ;  died  in 
1694 ;  bur. in  St.  Peter’s 
Church,  Cork. 


Helena,  eldest"  da.,  mar.  1666  Thomas  Browne,  Grissell, 
Esq.,  of  Cork,  and  became  the  grandmother  of  2d  da., 
the  Most  Rev.  Jemmett  Browne,* 1  D.D.,  Arch-  mar.  .  .  . 
bishop  of  Tuam.  See  “  Browneof  Riverstown  ”  Brents, 
in  Burke's  Landed  Gentry. 


Jane,  3d 
da.,  mar. 
1680  to 
Simon 
White. 


l - 1 - - - - 

1.  Charles  2.  Hugh  Hovell  of  Mt.  Hovell,  co.  Cork  ;  d.  s.p., 
Hovell,  d.  and  was  buried  in  St.  Peter’s  Church,  Cork, 
s.p.  AVill  signed  5  April  1709 ;  probate  granted 

“  Gratia}  Farmer  uxori  Roberti  Farmaf,”  8 
Nov.  1720. 


I - - - - - 

The  Hon.  Richard  Hill  of  Beare  Forest,  co.  Cork, 
one  of  H.M.  Council  for  South  Carolina,  married, 
1726,  his  cousin  Grace,  da.  of  Robert  Farmar, 
Esq.,  by  Grace,  da.  and  ultimately  coheir  of 
William  Hovell  of  Mount  Hovell. 


Jane  Hovell,  elder  sister  and 
coheir  of  Hugh  Hovell,  mar¬ 
ried  Charles  Hill,  Esq.,  and 
had  issue. 


Hovell  Farmar,  Esq.,  of  Mount  Hovell,  co.  Cork  ;  born  1701  ; 
mar.  1739  Katherine  Dorothea,  eldest  da.  of  Christopher 
Russell,  Esq.,  Colonel  17th  Regiment  and  Governor  of 
Minorca.  (Vide  Burke’s  Landed  Gentry,  Russell  of  Dona- 
maggan.)  For  the  descendants  of  Hovell  Farmar,  vide 
Burke’s  Landed  Gentry,  “  Farmer  of  Bloomfield.” 


- 1 

Grace  Hovell,  younger  sister  and  co¬ 
heir  ;  mar.,  1700,  Robert  Farmar,2  Esq., 
of  Fergus,  co.  Cork,  and  Thurles  Beg, 
co.  Tipperary,  and  had  issue,  with 
other  children,  =p 


The  information  upon  which  this  Pedigree  is  based  was  derived  mainly  from  Lieut.  Colonel  E.  F.  Jemmett  Browne, 
late  35th  Regiment,  of  the  family  of  Browne  of  Riverston,  descendants  of  the  Archbishop.  There  is  a  pedigree  at  the  Heralds 
College,  London,  of  Hovell  of  Mount  Hovell,  connected  with  Farmar. 


The  traditional  account  of  the  Irish  Hovells,  as  handed  down  in  the  Farmar  family,  is  this.  Robert  Farmar,  second 
son  of  Richard  Farmar  of  Thurles  Beg,  co.  Tipperary,  and  his  wife,  Elizabeth  Phaire,  married,  in  1700,  Grace,  daughter  of 
William  Hovell,  who  had  been  Mayor  of  Cork  in  1693.  The  latter  was  of  an  old  Norfolk  family,  and  Hugh  Hovell,  his 
uncle,  resided  on  part  of  his  estate  named  Kenninghall  Park.  His  father,  William  Hovell,  was  a  major  in  the  Army,  and 
served  under  Lords  Broghill  and  Inchiquin  during  the  Irish  rebellion  of  1641.  His  name  (usually  spelt  Howell)  is  frequently 

mentioned  in  the  records  of  the  time.  William  Hovell,  the  younger,  his  son,  escaped  with  difficulty  from  Cork  when  James 

the  Second  invaded  Ireland  in  1689,  the  city  being  closely  '  guarded  by  James’s  troops,  aud  suffered  heavy  losses,  but 
returned  when  tranquility  was  restored.  He  was  a  man  of  literary  ability  and  political  foresight.  His  work  (anonymous) 

on  the  consequences  of  prohibiting  the  export  of  woollen  materials  manufactured  in  Ireland,  printed  in  Dublin  in  1690,  lias 

been  disastrously  confirmed  by  subsequent  events.  He  died  6th  June  1697,  Grace,  his  wife,  predeceasing  him  in  1694. 
They  were  interred  in  St.  Peter’s  church,  Cork,  the  burial  place  of  so  many  of  their  kindred.  Hovell  Farmer,  their 
grandson,  the  husband  of  Katherine  Dorothea  Russell,  was  a  popular  and  successful  physician  in  that  city. 


1  Jemmett  Browne  (grandson  of  Thomas  Browne  of  Cork,  who  married  Helena  Hovell  in  1666)  was  son  of  Edward 
Browne,  Mayor  of  Cork,  by  Judith,  daughter  of  Warliam  Jemmett  of  Derry,  whose  wife,  Judith  Richmond  alias  Webb,  was 
granddaughter  of  Nicholas  St.  John,  the  brother  of  Oliver  St.  John,  Lord  Deputy  of  Ireland. 

He  entered  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  in  1718,  and  was  ordained  priest  in  1723  by  Peter  Browne  his  kinsman,  then  Bishop 
of  Cork.  From  1733  to  1743  he  was  Dean  of  Ross ;  from  1743  to  1745,  Bishop  of  Killaloe ;  from  1745  to  1772,  Bishop  of 
Cork;  from  1772  to  1775,  Bishop  of  Elphin;  and  from  1775  to  1782  Archbishop  of  Tuam. 

He  married,  first,  Alice  Waterhouse,  in  1723,  and  had  issue.  His  second  wife  was  Jane  Barry,  widow,  of  St.  Anne’s 
parish,  Dublin.  He  died  in  June,  1782,  and  was  buried  at  Ballinaspic,  county  Cork.  Dr.  Maziere  Brady’s  Clerical  Records  of 
Cork,  Cloyne  and  Ross,  vol.  ii,  428. 

2  This  family  of  Farmar  claims  to  be  a  branch  of  the  Fermors  of  Easton  Neston,  co.  Northampton,  from  which  the 
Earls  of  Pomfret  derived.  One  branch  has  for  its  descendants  the  Farmars,  Baronets,  of  Mount  Pleasant,  Sussex.  (Vide 
Burke’s  Peerage  and  Baronetage,  Farmar,  Baronet). 


obeli  of  lonbon. 


5®ill  of  Hubert  Hobcll,  1566. 

I,  Robert  Hovell  of  Wendlynge  in  the  County  of  Norfolk  make  this  my  last  will  this 

2 -1th  day  of  February,  1566.  I  give  to  Dorothy  my  wife  lands  and  tenements  in  Wendlyng 

and  in  Great  Fransham  in  the  said  County  for  the  term  of  her  life,  and  after  her  decease  to  Noye 

my  sonne.  To  Thomas  Hovell  my  sonne,  after  my  wife’s  decease,  the  residue  of  my  tenements 

and  lands.  To  John  Hovell  my  sonne  the  sum  of  twenty  pounds  To  Maud  my  daughter 

five  pounds.  To  Bridget  my  daughter  twenty  pounds,  and  sums  of  money  to  Robert  Allyn  and 
William  Allyn  her  sonnes.  I  make  and  ordain  Dorothy  my  wife  and  my  brother  Christopher 

Rouse  executors  of  this  will.  Probate,  9,b  July,  1567,  at  Swaffham,  during  the  Visitation  of  the 

Metropolitan.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  Liber  “  Bunne,”  fo.  30. 

Christopher  Rouse,  the  son  of  Anthony  Rouse  of  Badingham  and  Mary  Sexton,  his  wife, 

was  baptized  there  22nd  Nov.  1550.  Christopher  Rouse,  the  uncle  of  this  Anthony,  is  named 

in  the  will  of  his  father,  Edward  Rouse,  Esqr.,  13th  October  1506.  As  Christopher  Rouse,  the 

brother  in  law  of  Robert  Hovell,  was  buried  at  Fransham  Magna  in  1594,  he  is  probably 

identical  with  the  younger  of  these  men.  Davy  says,  on  what  authority  we  know  not,  that 

Mary  Sexton  married  as  her  second  husband  John  Smith,  a  suggestive  name  in  this  connection. 


Cbancerg  $  runnings,  Hobdl  c.  IBantes,  1655. 

Hoogan  Hovell  of  London,  Nicholas  Hovell  of  London,  and  William  Beauchamp 

of  London,  and  Dorothy  his  wife,  show  that  Francis  Barnes  of  Westham  co.  Essex, 
vncle  to  yor  Orators  Hoogan,  Nicholas  and  Dorothy,  had  messuages  called  Cockerells  &c. 
in  Hadley  co.  Essex.  By  his  last  will,  dated  16th  Oct1',  1629,  he  devised  them  to  his  wife 

for  life :  his  executors  to  sell  them  after  his  decease  and  divide  the  proceeds  equally  between 
yor  Orators,  Hoggan  Hovell,  Nicholas  Hovell  and  Dorothy  and  Margaret,  sisters  of  yor  Orators. 
He  appointed  William  Clarke  and  Robert  Cheslyn  to  be  his  executors.  Clarke  deceased  and 
Cheslyn  married  the  said  Margaret,  yor  Orrs  sister,  and  combined  with  one  Francis  Barnes  of 
London,  gent,  who  pretendeth  to  be  cosen  and  next  heir  of  the  said  Francis  Barnes  the 
testator.  They  have  gotten  the  custodie  of  said  messuages  and  the  deeds  and  evidences,  and 
pretend  that  said  devise  by  will  is  voyde  in  law,  and  that  Cheslyn,  as  co-executor,  hath  no 
power  to  make  sale. 

Answer  of  Frauncis  Barnes  one  of  the  Defendants.  By  Clarkes  decease,  Cheslyn 
stands  alone,  and  hath  noe  power  by  himself  to  make  the  sale :  by  that  defect  the  lands  come 

to  Defendant  as  cozen  and  next  heire  to  deceased.  Conscience  followeth  the  law  in  such  cases. 

(4 


42 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Complaynants  are  but  of  kynne  and  not  heirs.  Defendant  is  son  and  heir  of  John  Barnes, 
deceased,  brother  and  heire  of  said  Francis  the  testator.  The  will  was  proved  in  the  Ecclesiastical 
Court,  by  William  Clarke :  the  other  Executor  refusing.  Elizabeth  the  relict  of  said  Francis 
Barnes  is  yet  living,  and  may  over  live  Cheslyn.  Confesseth  he  doth  refuse  to  join  in  sale  with 
Cheslyn.  Charles  I,  B.  &  A.,  H.H.  30,  29. 

Throughout  these  proceedings  the  defendant’s  name,  by  error  of  the  scribe,  is  written 
“  Chestyn.”  See  also  Hovell  c.  Cheslyn,  Charles  I,  B.  &  A..  H.H.  8,  42,  and  Barnes  c.  Hovell, 
Chas.  I,  B.  ifc  A.,  B.B.  76,  48. 


Mill  of  Kobirt  ®b t&lm,  1651. 

Robert  Cheslen  of  London,  Esquire,  twentieth  day  of  Julie,  1651.  My  loveing  wife  shall 
enioy  one  third  parte  of  my  personall  estate  according  to  the  Custome  of  the  Citty  of  London. 
My  daughter  Elizabeth  now  the  wife  of  William  Bateman  shall  enioy  one  other  third  parte. 
Vnto  Robert,  William,  Elizabeth  and  Margarett,  children  of  my  said  daughter,  ffifty  pounds 
apeice.  Vnto  Isett  Mason,  daughter  of  my  late  brother  Nicholas  Hovell.  Vnto  William  and 
Elizabeth  Berchamp  children  of  my  late  brother  William  Berchamp.  All  the  rest  of  my  goods 
I  give  unto  my  wife  Margarett  and  my  said  daughter  Elizabeth  Bateman  equally ;  and  I  make 
my  said  wife  sole  executrix.  I  give  vnto  my  said  wife  my  two  messuages  in  the  pish  of  S1 

Dionyse  Barck  Church  in  London,  and  my  ffarme  called  Hungerhall  in  Orsett,  co.  .Essex.  If 

she  sell,  my  sonne  in  lawe  William  Bateman  shall  have  the  first  offer.  My  ffarme  called 
Reedham  Marshe  in  Bulvan,  co.  Essex,  &  all  my  lands  there  vnto  my  wife  for  life,  and  after 
her  decease  to  my  said  daughter  for  life,  and  after  her  decease  to  William  Bateman  the 
younger  and  his  heires.  My  loveing  brother  Hogan  Hovell  and  his  wife.  My  loveing  sister 
Hovell  late  wife  of  my  brother  Nicholas  Hovell.  To  Isett  Mason  daughter  of  my  brother 
Nicholas  Hovell  and  to  her  son  Robert  Mason.  I  revoke  Indenture  1st  Feb.  1648  between  mee 
the  said  Robert  Cheslen,  Cittizen  and  Cooper  of  London,  of  the  one  parte,  and  the  saide 
William  Bateman,  by  the  name  of  William  Bateman  the  elder  of  London,  Marchant,  of  the 
other  parte.  To  the  Company  of  Coopers  of  London  fforty  pounds  towards  the  new  building  of 
their  Coihon  Hall,  and  tenne  pounds  for  a  dinner.  To  the  poore  of  Farneham  in  Surrey  where 
I  was  borne.  To  the  poore  of  Orsett  in  Essex  ffive  pounds.  Many  other  bequests.  Testator, 
weake  and  troubled  with  the  palsey  in  his  hand,  shaketh  soe  that  hee  could  not  write -his  name. 

This  will  was  proved  20th  Aug.  1651  by  Margaret  Cheslen  the  relict. 

P.C.C.  162  Grey. 


Mill  of  Hogan  1655. 

I  Hogan  Hovell,  Cittizen  and  Grocer  of  London,  being  in  strength  of  Bodie  and  of 
perfect  mind  and  memorie,  doe  make  this  my  last  will.  My  Bodie  to  be  interred  according  to 
the  approved  discretion  of  my  beloved  Executrix.  First  I  giue  vnto  my  Sister  Margarett  Silverlock 
and  her  husband  fifteene  pounds  to  buy  them  mourning.  Vnto  my  kinsman  William  Bateman 
and  his  wife  ffifteene  pounds  to  buy  them  mourning.  My  kinsmen  Mason  and  his  wife  and 


JIOVELL  OF  LONDON. 


43 


John  Gordan  Junior  and  his  wife.  My  sis?  Thackham.  Vnto  my  kinsman  Bewchamp  mourning 
cloathes.  Ynto  my  kinswoeman  Ann  Clarke  tenn  poundes.  Ynto  the  Master,  Wardens  and 
C'ommonaltie  of  the  misterie  of  Grocers  of  the  Cittie  of  London  one  standing  guilt  Cupp  of  the 
price  of  five  and  Twentie  pounds;  and  to  the  poore  of  the  Companie  I  giue  tenn  pounds. 
Vnto  the  poore  of  the  Parish  of  Mary  Woolchurch,  London,  where  I  now  dwell,  fforty  shillings. 
Ynto  Master  John  May  dwell  Thirtie  pounds  of  the  ffiftie  remaining  in  the  hands  of  Master  John 
Smart  (being  a  Legacie  of  Master  Toby  Maydwell  deceased),  and  thother  Twentie  pounds  thereof 
I  giue  vnto  Master  Richard  Maydwell.  Ynto  my  loving  wife  Mary  all  my  messuage  lands  and 
tenements  in  Wendling  Fransham  and  Worsted  in  the  Cou'ntie  of  Norfolke  for  her  naturall  Life, 
with  the  remainders  thereof  as  followeth  (viz1)  To  my  kinswoman  .  .  .  Mason  those  messuages 

Arc.  which  were  latelie  Hogan  Jewells,  in  Wendling  and  Fransham,  and  after  her  decease  to  the 
heires  of  her  Bodie  and  in  default  of  such  issue  to  the  heires  of  my  kinsman  William  Bateman 
for  ever.  And  I  giue  those  messuages  Ac.  in  Wendling  which  were  late  the  Inheritance  of 
Francis  Boarnes,  after  the  decease  of  my  wife,  vnto  John  Boulton  and  his  heires  for  ever : 
Except  one  acre  copy  of  the  Mannor  of  Herrinsall  which  I  giue  vnto  the  Church  Wardens  of 
Wendling  to  be  sett  or  disposed  for  the  best  vse  of  the  poore,  and  I  doe  likewise  giue  tfive 
pounds  towards  the  purchase  in  ffee  simple  of  the  acre  last  mentioned.  I  giue  all  my  Mannors 
in  Worsted,  after  the  decease  of  my  wife,  vnto  Mary  Boulton  and  the  heires  of  her  body  And 
for  default  of  such  issue  the  remainder  thereof  vnto  my  said  kinsman  William  Bateman.  Vnto 
the  Governours  of  the  Hospitall  of  Bethelem,  London,  that  yerely  ffee  farme  Rent  of  five  pounds 
six  shillings  and  eight  pence  payable  out  of  certaine  messuage  in  Broadstreete,  London.  Ynto 

my  Wife  all  that  ffee  farme  lent  of  Thirteene  pounds  six  shillings  and  eight  pence  out  of  a 

certaine  Colledge  in  Cambridge  called  Queene’s  Colledge ;  and  after  her  decease,  I  bequeath  the 
remainder  thereof  vnto  the  principall  and  Schollers  of  Queenes  Colledge  and  theire  Successors 
towards  the  maintenance  of  two  poore  Schollers  as  the  Companie  of  Grocers  of  the  Cittie  of 
London  shall  nominate  or  appointe.  The  messuage  in  Rood  Lane  shall  be  possessed  by  my  Wife. 

My  kinswoeman  Elizabeth  Jorden  and  her  child  or  children.  All  the  rest  of  my  goods,  monie, 

landes  Ac.  I  doe  devise  vnto  my  loving  wife  whome  I  make  sole  Executrix  of  this  Will, 

desiring  God  to  blesse  her  with  a  Comfortable  imployment  of  what  Estate  I  haue  left  to  her 
vse  and  disposing.  I  haue  here  unto  sett  my  hand  and  Seale  the  28th  day  of  July  1655.  This 
will  was  proved  ye  Second  day  of  June  1657  by  the  oath  of  Mary  Hovell  the  Relict. 

Quinto  die  Junij  1707  emt  Com0  Johanni  Clarke  pooe  S4*  Michaelis  London,  gen  ad  aSstrand 

bona  Ac.  per  Marian  Hovell  ejus  Relictam  inadministrata  quoad  jus  ejusdem  defti  in  Residue 
cujusdem  Termini  Mille  annorum  in  quodam  Mesuagio  Capitali  vocato  Hungar  Hall  ats  Week 
House  in  Orset  im  com  Essex,  sed  non  ultra. 

P.C.C.  219  Ruthen. 

The  following  Fine  in  Easter  Term,  4th  James  I,  relates  to  a  sale  of  land  by  Thomas  Hovell, 

Hogan  Hovell’s  father,  to  his  half-brother  Hogan  Jewell  : — “  Hec  est  finalis  concordia . inter 

Hoganih  Jewell,  GeSosum,  A  Will  in  Davy,  GerJosum,  quer,  et  Thomam  Hovell,  deforc,  de  duob3 
mesuagijs,  duob3  gardinis,  duob3  pomarijs,  quatuordecim  acris  tre,  sex  acris  prati  A  octo  acris 

pasture  in  Fransome  Magna.  Et  g  recogh  remissione  quiet  clam  Warant  fine  et  concordia  ijdem 
Hoganus  A  Wills  deder  pdeo  Thome  quinquaginta  libras  sterlingo^. 

Norff. 

G2 


44 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


?i)obrll  ^rtufficr,  H  ontum  (Itsttatum,  1633. 

Robert  Howell  of  Suffolk  died  at=r 
Wendling  in  Norfolk. 


Thomas  Howell  of  Wendling. -=f=. Ann,  da.  of .  .  .  Barnes. 


Hogan  Hoivell  of  London, =f-Mary  da.  of  John  Hargrave  of 
grocer,  A <<  1633.  !  Nottinghamshire. 


John,  Mary  Iff  John,  all  three  s.p. 

[Signed]  Hoogan  Hovell. 

The  Arms  in  Harl.  MS.  1476,  and  in  the  original  Visitation  of  London  at  the  Herald’s  College,  are  Sable,  a  crescent 
Or,  charged  with  a  crescent  for  difference,  Hogan  Ilovell  having  been  the  younger  brother  of  Nicholas  Hovell,  and  the  second 
son  of  his  father.  The  Crest,  a  sea  lion  Ermine,  is  also  charged  with  a  crescent. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  these  are  the  Armorial  bearings  of  Hovell  als.  Smith  of  Haughley,  and  their  descendants  the 
Hovells  of  Hillington. 

The  spelling  “  Howell  ”  crops  up  with  remarkable  frequency  in  Hovell  evidences,  and  is  occasionally  used,  even  now, 
by  strangers  in  addressing  members  of  the  latter  family.  In  ignorance  of  this,  Hovell  documents  of  great  interest  have 
been  overlooked  by  antiquaries  and  genealogists.  In  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth  century  the  name  was  mostly  written  Houell. 


$)obcll  of  HonDon. 


Christopher  Rouse,  1566, 
whom  Robert  Hovell  de¬ 
scribes  as  “  brother.”  He 
was  buried  at  Fransham 
Magna  12  April  1595. 


.  .  .  .—Robert  Hovell  of  Suffolk,  died  at=Dorothy,  second  wife,  named  in  Robert1 
first  Wendling  in  Norfolk  (Harl.  MS.  Hovell’s  Will :  kinswoman  perhaps  of 
wife.  1476 )  ;  was  living  there  1539 —  Margaret  Huggon  of  Wendling,  whose 
1567.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  dated  Will  he  witnessed  13  May  1558,  Arch. 
24  Feb.  1566,  proved  9  July  1567.  Norwic. 


:Thomas  Jewell, 
second  husband, 
mar.  at  Wend¬ 
ling  18  October 
1567. 


i — i - 

John  Hovell,  bap. 
atWendling  1539; 
living  1566. 

Maud,  bap.  at 
Wendling  1544 ; 
living  1566. 


Thomas  Hovell  of= 
Wendling ;  bap. 
there  15  April 
1556 ;  mar.  9  Oct. 
1591 ;  bur.  there 
25  March  1608. 


:Anne,  sister  of  Francis 
Barnes  of  West  Ham,  co. 
Essex,  Gent.,  who  made 
Will  16  Oct.  1629,  devis¬ 
ing  lands  in  Hadley  to  the 
Hovells.  Hovell  c.  Barnes, 
Chas.  I.,  B.  &  A. 


Noye  Hovell,  bap. 
atWendling,  1560. 

Bridget,  mar.  .  .  . 
Allen,  and  had  is¬ 
sue  Robt.  andWm. 
Allen,  living  1566. 


George,  bap.  1542 ; 
William,  bap.  1543; 
George,  bap.  1559 ; 
Christopher,  bap. 
1564;  seem  all  to 
have  died  young. 


Hogan  Jewell,  Gent.,  bap. 
at  Wendling  8  Aug.  1568; 
bought  lands  in  Fransham 
of  Thomas  Hovell,  his  half 
brother,  1606.  Fine,  Norff. 
Easter,  4  Jas.  I. 


Nicholas  Hovell,  Citizen 
of  London  1633.  Hovell 
c.  Cheslyn,  Chas.  I,  B. 
fy  A.,  Hovell  c.  Barnes, 
&c.  Hiswidow  was  living 
in  1561. 


Hogan  Hovell,  Citizen  of  Lon-= 
don  :  bap.  at  Wendling  25  Nov. 
1593 ;  entered  pedigree  at  the 
London  Yisitn.  of  1633.  Will, 
P.C.C.  219  Ruthven,  28  July  1655, 
proved  2  June  1657. 


■Mary,  da.  of  John  Har¬ 
grave  of  Nottingham¬ 
shire  ;  mar.  lie.,  Faculty 
Office,  11  Jan.  162$  ;  to 
be  mar.  at  Dedham, 
Essex  ;  living  1657. 


Dorothy  Hovell,  was 
wife  of  William  Beau¬ 
champ,  of  London, 
1633,  Houell  c.  Barnes-, 
he  was  dead  in  1651. 


MargaretHovell,was  wife 
of  RobertCheslyn,Esq.,of 
London.  Hovell  c.  Barnes. 
He  made  Will,  P.C.C.,  162 
Grey, 20  July  1651, proved 
20  Aug.  following. 


Isett  Hovell,  then  wife  of 
....  Mason ;  devisees  of 
their  uncles,  Robert  Ches¬ 
lyn  and  Hogan  Hovell. 


n — i - 

John,  Mary  &  John 
Hovell, all  three  died, 
sans  prole,  in  their 
father’s  lifetime. 


William  Beauchamp 
and  his  wife  were  de¬ 
visees  of  Hogan  Ho¬ 
vell,  1655. 


Elizabeth  Beau¬ 
champ,  devisee 
of  Robert  Ches¬ 
lyn,  1651. 


Elizabeth  Cheslyn,  sole 
da.  and  heiress,  wife  of 
William  Bateman  of  Lon¬ 
don,  merchant,  1651. 


Robert  Mason,  devi¬ 
see  of  Robert  Ches¬ 
lyn,  1561. 


Robert  Bateman ; 
named  1651  in  his 
grandfather’ sWill. 


William  Bateman; 
named  1651  in  his 
grandfather’ sWill. 


Elizabeth  Bateman  ; 
named  1651  in  her 
grandfather’s  Will. 


Margaret  Bateman; 
named  1651  in  her 
grandfather’s  Will. 


ulgrabe. 


oi)dl  of 


Jtrntorial  Searings. 

The  arms  allowed  to  William  Hovell  at  the  Northampton  Visitations  were  those  of  Hovell 

of  W  y  verstone  in  Suffolk,  Sable,  a  cross  Or.  A  crest,  too  suggestive  perhaps  of  a  legend  to 

please  exact  heralds,  was  added,  viz.,  A  griffin  sejant  Argent,  beaked,  legged,  and  winged  Azure, 
plucking  a  broken  spear  Or  from  his  breast  (vulned  Gules)  with  his  dexter  claw,  and  holding 
the  handle  thereof  with  his  sinister  claw.  Marl.  MS.  1553,  fol.  7J+. 

The  Houell  pedigree  which  follows,  taken  from  the  Visitations  of  Northamptonshire,  1566 
and  1619  (Marl.  MS.  1553),  is  collated  with  those  entered  in  the  Visitation  of  Oxfordshire  and 
Dorset  in  1574  (Marl.  MSS.  1556  and  1539).  In  the  two  latter  the  name  is  written  “  Hovell.” 
There  is  a  mass  of  evidence  to  show  that  the  names  Howell  and  Hovell  were  interchangeable, 
the  alternative  spellings  sometimes  occurring  in  the  same  document.  The  Hovells  appear  to  have 
been  Oxfordshire  landowners  as  early  as  the  thirteenth  century.  Hugh  de  Hawille  held  lands 
in  Garsington,  near  Oxford,  of  Sir  William  de  Valence  by  the  service  of  half  a  knight’s  fee  in 

the  7th  year  of  King  Edward  the  First,  1279.  Rotuli  Hundredorum,  vol.  ii,  721. 


Mill  of  Joint  fobell,  1557. 

The  xxxth  daye  of  Maye  1557  I  John  Howell  of  Yefteley  (Iffley)  in  the  countie  of  Oxforde 

gentleman  make  this  my  last  will  and  testamente.  I  comende  my  sowle  to  almightie  god  and 

my  bodie  to  be  buried  in  the  Churche  or  churche  yarde  of  Yesterley.  To  the  same  Churche  a 
coope  of  white  damaske  embrodered  and  a  vestment  of  the  same  sute  and  another  vestment  of 
Kedde  damaske  nowe  being  occupied  in  the  said  churche.  To  the  parishe  Churche  of  S*  Thomas 
ais  seynt  Nicholas  in  the  suburbes  of  Oxforde  a  vestment  of  redde  taffeta.  To  the  poor  folke 
in  Yesterley  having  no  plowe  goynge  to  euy  house  of  them  iiijd,  And  being  in  cooples  in  a 

howse  to  euy  suche  howse  viiijd.  To  the  poore  of  Oxforde  and  the  suburbes  xl9.  To  the  poore 

prysoners  within  the  Castle  of  Oxforde  vjB  viiijd.  To  the  poore  prysoners  in  Bocardo  within  the 

Citie  of  Oxforde  iij9  iiijd.  To  Thomas  my  sonne  all  my  landes  in  Abyndon  and  my  lease  of 

my  brue  howse  in  seynt  Nicholas  pishe.  To  my  sonne  John  my  lease  of  the  Swanne  in  Oxforde 
after  the  death  of  Elizabeth  forman.  And  if  ytt  fortune  that  the  said  Thomas  my  sonne 

decease  w4out  heyre  male  of  his  bodie  I  bequeath  the  landes  and  lease  to  hym  bequeathed  to 

my  sonne  Wifim,  and  for  like  default  of  the  same  Wilim  to  John  my  sonne.  And  for  the 

like  defaults  of  John  to  Marye  my  doughter.  To  Wilim  and  John  my  sonnes  xxli  a  pece.  To 
Agnes  Judde  my  doghter  xu  and  the  lease  of  the  lyon  in  Oxforde.  To  Johan  my  doughter 

xxh  when  xviij  yeres  (of  age).  To  Marye  and  Fraunces  my  doughters  xx1'  a  pece.  I  giue  my 

house  in  seynte  Thomas  poche  comonly  called  seynt  Katherynes  howse  to  the  mayer  and 
Comynaltie  of  Oxford  for  ever  to  the  vse  of  the  iiii  poore  beades  men  called  the  Trynytie 


46 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


men,  the  mayer  yerely  to  distribute  the  yerely  rent  of  the  said  house.  I  will  that  the  said 
Mayer  shalhaue  the  Rent  of  my  water  called  Warehame  nyghe  the  said  house  wl  a  boote  of 
the  same  and  shall  haue  power  to  lett  the  same.  Elizabeth  my  wif  shall  occupie  and  en-Joye 

my  lease  and  ferme  Yesteley  duryng  her  widowhed  if  she  kepe  her  self  sole  and  vnmaryed. 

And  after  her  decease  or  widowe  estate  I  will  said  lease,  Stocke  stoore  cattell  and  corne  to 
remayne  to  Wilim  my  sonne  vpon  condicon  that  he  paye  my  said  wif  two  hundred  poundes. 
And  he  to  en-Joye  the  same  when  he  shall  accomplishe  his  age  of  xxi  yeres.  And  for  default 
of  Withn  to  remayne  to  John  my  sonne  And  for  lacke  of  John  to  Mary  my  doughter.  To 

Henrye  Judde  twentie  shillinges.  To  John  Doyle  Esquyer  my  ousear  my  amblynge  stoned 

horse  wl  sadell  and  brydle.  The  Residue  of  my  goodes  to  Elizabeth  my  wife  to  en-Joy  the 
same.  And  I  ordeyne  the  said  Elizabeth  my  sole  executrice.  I  make  John  Doyly,  Esquyer, 
Wihm  Stylehouse  Mr  of  Arte  and  John  Rodye  Bachelo1'  of  lawe  ousears.  Theis  being  witnesses 
Thomas  WiSms  then  mayer,  John  Whittenden  then  mayer  elected,  Garbrand  Harkes  wl  others 
moo.  Probatum  vicesimo  sexto  die  Nouembris  1560  Juramento  procuris  Elizabeth  Howell  Relce 
et  executricis.  P.C  C.  56  Mellershe. 


Sttsmptton,  ftackltmoD  ®kurd),  ®ftrltricksl)ir£. 

On  a  mural  tablet  in  stone  in  Packwood  church,  Warwickshire,  much  worn  and  crumbled, 
is  the  following  inscription 

“  Here  lieth  the  bodie  of  William  Hovell  Esquier  &  Prudence  his  wyfe  daughter  of  John 
Davers  of  Culworth  esquier  in  the  contie  of  Northampton  &,  Dorothy  Hovell  theire  daughter. 

“  In  vertue  they  bestowed  their  time  Amongest  the  saints  of  God. 

With  pietie  and  godlines  They  made  their  wholl  aboade. 

Theire  heades  were  crowned  with  a  crowne,  Which  crowne  can  never  fade. 

By  graces  sweete  and  manifold  Theire  lives  were  alwayes  stayde. 

lift*).” 


Will  oi  j$ir  ®homas  IBntgfr,  1572. 

Thomas  Benger,  Knighte,  25  June  1572.  My  gooddes  are  verye  litle  and  my  debtes  greate. 
The  chardges  for  the  furtheraunce  of  her  Maiestie’s  graunte  of  ffynes  for  Alienacions  haue  ben  so 
greate  that  I  haue  ben  enforced  to  morgage  all  my  Gooddes.  Wherefore  my  humble  sure  to  her 
Highnes  ys  that  the  greate  Clemencie  alwaies  by  her  Maf,ie  shewed  during  lief  may  after  death  be 
extended  in  the  furtherance  of  the  execucon  of  saide  graunt :  And  that  Thomfls  Benger,  her  olde 
servant  and  one  of  the  last  of  the  poore  flock  of  Hatfeilde,  may  rrape  and  enioye  the  profittes, 
[which]  I  haue  assigned  to  Anthonye  Winkefelde  Esquior,  one  of  the  gent,  vsshers  to  her  Majestie, 
my  cosen  Andrewe  Vavisor  Esquier,  my  brother  William  Benger  and  Thomas  ffugall  my  Chapleine,  as 
ffrendes  of  truste.  I  will  that  Dame  Dorothie  my  wieff  be  recompensed  [for]  money  I  had  of  her. 
Some  porcon  of  the  proflittes  of  saide  graunte  to  be  disbursed  amongest  my  poore  servantes.  Pro¬ 
batum  vicesimo  sexto  Marcij  1577  jur  Thome  ffugal.  P.C.C.  11  Daughtre. 

Sir  Thomas  Benger  was  the  second  husband  of  Dorothy  Danvers,  the  mother  of  Prudence 
Danvers  ais  Hovell  of  Eynsham. 


HOVELL  OF  SULGRAVE. 


47 


iPeijtgm,  ?l)olirlI  of  J&ulgrabc  anti  Bankers. 


Henery  Houell  of  Wiuer-=f=  Constance  d.  of  .  .  .  Hercye  of 


ston  in  Com.  Stiff. 

MS.  1553. 


Harl. 


Groue  in  Com.  Nottingham. 
Gules  a  chief  Argent. 


William  Danvers  of  Wappenham,=j=.  .  .,  sister  and  co- 
son  of  Sir  Ranulph  and  the  heiress  heiress  of  Robert 
of  William  de  la  Riviere.  de  Coleshall. 


Anthony  Houell.- p.  .  .,  d.  of  Robert  Disney  of 
I  Lincolnshire. 


Robert^  Alice,  sister  and  coheiress  of  Robert 
Danvers,  de  la  Beech  of  Aldworth,  Berks. 


1.  John=T=Elizebeth  d.  of  . 


Houell. 


Sacheuerell  of 
in  Com.  Darby. 


2.  Simon  Houell 
=  Elenor  d.  of 
Brook. 


- 1 

Elizebeth 
vx  ...  . 
Tremayne. 


Richard  Danvers  of-p 
Colthorp,  Oxon,  born 
1345. 


da.  and  heiress  of  John 
de  Brancestre,  of  Oxford¬ 
shire. 


Thomas- p.  .  .  d.  of  Suliard.  Or,  a  cross  Sable  charged  with  five 
Houell.  crescents,  Argent. 


John  Danvers  of  Banbury=j= Alice,  da.  and  heiress  of  William  Ver- 


and  Colthorp. 


ney  of  Byfield,  mar.  1399. 


n 


Robert  Houell. = p.  .  .  d.  of  ..  .  Seckford. 


Richard  Danvers  of  Prescott1 
Manor. 


;Elizabeth,  da.  of  John  Langston  of 
Carnsfield,  Bucks. 


Henry  Houell  of=rElizebeth  d.  of  .  .  .  Ernley  of  Conings 
Bradlee.  in  Com.  Wilts. 


Sir  John  Danvers  of  C  ul  worth  ,=p Ann  Stradling,  “Lady  of  Daunt- 


Sheriff  of  Northampton,  10  Hen. 
7  ;  d.  12  Jan.  1514. 


sey,"  da.  and  heiress  of  Sir  John 
Stradling,  1503. 


Maud,da.—JohnHouell  ofIfeley.=f=Elizebeth  d.  of  Elizebeth  l.m.to  ..  .  2.  WilliamDan-^pLady  Elizabeth  Fiennes, 


of  Wm.  Will,  30  May  1657  ; 
Sincott.  prob.  26  Nov.  1560. 


William  Doyley1  fforman,  2.  to  Nicho-  vers  of  Cul- 
of  Greenland  in  las  Seakes  of  Cowley.  worth,  d.  20 
Com.  Oxon.  June  1545. 


da.  of  Richard,  Lord 
Saye  and  Sele,  1522. 


1 .  ThomasDanvers  of 
Dauntsey.  A  quo,  Sir 
Henry  Danvers,  Earl 
of  Danby,  1626,  K.G. 


1.  Thomas  Hou-  —  Anne  d.  of 
ell  of  Poole  in  Thom  Bry- 
Com.  Dorssett.  an  of  Wilts. 


- 1 - 1 - 

Joane  1.  m.  to  Robert  ffrances 
Hyde,  2.  to  Thom  vx  Thom 
Armestrong.  A  da.,  Parsonns. 
Maria  Hyde. 


— \ - n 

Agnes  John& 
vx  Hugh  Mary, 
Judd,  living 
1557.  1557. 


John  Danvers'2=pDorothy,  da.  and  co-  Mary, 
of  Culworth  heiress  of  SirWilliam  Dorothy, 

died  4  August  Rainsford  of  Great  and 
1556.  Tew,  co.  Oxon.  Anne. 


r -  i - 1 — \ — r 

Elizebeth  d.  of— 2.  William  Houell  of  Eynsam=^Prudence  d.  of 
.  .  .  Chatter-  in  Com.  Oxon  Sf  Soulgrave  in  John  Danvers 
ton,  1.  wife,  Com.  Northampton.  M.I.  in  ofCullworthin 
s.p.  Packworthch.,  Warwickshire.  Com.Northton. 


Temperance,  mar.  Anthony 
Dillon.  Justice  mar.  Rich¬ 
ard  Andrews.  Fortitude 
died  young. 


1.  Samuel  Danvers 
of  Culworth,  son 
and  heir,  mar.  Ann 
Pigott  &  had  issue. 


2.  Daniel  Danvers  of  Hor- 
ley,  clerk ;  d.  1623  :  from 
whom  descends  the  pre¬ 
sent  family,  1902. 


1.  Thomas  Howell.  2.  John  Houell. 


Mary.  Prudence. 


Dorathey ;  dead  1610. 


i 

Anne. 


1  “  According  to  the  Norman  authorities  the  cradle  of  the  great  Baronial  House  of  Doyley  was  Ouilly-le-Basset,  in  the 
arrondisement  of  Falaise.  They  were  a  branch  of  the  Bassets,  and  undoubtedly  continued  in  Normandy  till  the  close  of  the 
last  century,  as  they  were  represented  at  the  Assembly  of  the  Nobles  in  1789.  Their  coat  of  arms,  Argent  a  bend  Gules, 
became  in  England  Or,  two  bendlets  Azure,  sometimes  varied  with  a  counterchange. 

“  Cil  d’Oillie,”  entered  in  the  Roman  de  Rou  among  the  combatants  at  Hastings,  was  the  Robert  D’Oily  who  became, 

through  the  Conqueror’s  favour,  one  of  the  most  potent  nobles  of  the  realm.  He  received  the  two  baronies  of  Oxford  and 

St.  Valery,  acquired  the  honour  and  Castle  of  Wallingford  through  his  Saxon  wife  Algitha,  and  was  appointed  the  King’s 

Constable.  Within  six  years  of  the  Conquest  he  had  built  at  Oxford  a  strong  castle,  a  bridge  over  the  Isis,  and  a  collegiate 
church  dedicated  to  St.  George,  besides  either  repairing  or  re-erecting  the  walls  of  the  town.  This  fortress  gave  him  “  the 
sway  of  the  whole  County,  and  he  was  so  powerful  a  Man  in  his  time,”  says  Dugdale,  “  that  no  one  durst  oppose  him.” 

“  In  1084  William  the  Conqueror  kept  his  Easter  at  Abingdon,  and  was  most  splendidly  entertained  by  Robert  D’Oilly  ” — 

Lysons.  “Dugdale  does  not  furnish  us  with  the  date  of  Robert’s  death.  He  left  an  only  daughter  Maud,  married  first  to 
Milo  Crispni,  and  then  to  Brien  Fitz  Count,  but  she  had  no  children  and  died  a  nun.  She  had  inherited  her  mother’s 
barony  of  Wallingford.  That  of  St.  Valery  -was,  it  is  believed,  given  by  her  father  to  “his  very  familiar  frieiyl  John  de 

Ivery,  who  had  accompanied  him  in  the  wars,  as  his  sworn  brother  ” ;  and  the  honour  of  Oxford  (or  Hocknorton,  as  it  is 


48 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


called  in  the  pedigree),  with  the  office  of  Constable  of  England  passed  to  her  uncle  Nigel.  The  son  of  the  last  mentioned, 
Robert  II,  was  a  great  benefactor  to  the  Church.  He  founded  a  Priory  for  Black  Canons  at  Ossney,  near  Oxford,  “  among 
the  Isles  that  Isis  Ryver  there  maketh,”  in  1129.  Besides  this  he  founded  and  richly  endowed  Missenden  Abbey  in  Oxfordshire 
His  eldest  son  Henry  was  the  father  of  two  brothers,  with  whom  the  line  ended  in  the  time  of  Henry  III,  and  of  three, 

sisters  who  became  their  heirs.  The  eldest,  Marjory,  was  the  wife  of  Henry  de  Newburgh,  Earl  of  Warwick,  to  whom  she 

brought  the  Barony  of  Hocknorton;  Maud  married  Maurice  de  Gant:  and  Joan,  Simon  Fitz  Walter.” 

“  There  remained,  as  next  in  blood,  Henry  D'Oiley,  a  son  of  Robert’s  (II)  second  son  Gilbert.  His  family  remained 
in  Oxfordshire.  One  of  them,  Thomas  D’Oyley,  first  bought  Chiselhampton,  for  many  generations  the  principal  residence  of 
his  descendants.  His  grandson,  Sir  Robert  D’Oyley,  “  a  great  courtier  in  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth,”  met  his  death  at 
the  so-called  Black  Assizes  of  Oxford  in  1577.”  His  wife  was  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Lord  Keeper  Nicholas  Bacon. 

“  The  family  had  their  share  of  trouble  in  the  Civil  War.”  “  Greenland  House,  the  property  of  Sir  John  Doyley,  was 
in  the  month  of  May,  1644,  garrisoned  for  the  King,  with  a  view  of  commanding  the  passage  of  the  Thames  from  Henley 
and  Reading  to  London.  After  sustaining  a  long  and  severe  siege  from  the  Parliamentary  forces  under  Major-General 
Browne,  the  house  having  been  almost  reduced  to  ashes,  it  surrendered  on  the  11th  of  July. — Lyson’s  Bucks.  “  Sir  John 
Doyley,  impoverished  by  his  loyalty  and  unable  to  undertake  the  cost  of  the  restoration  of  Greenland  House,  sold  the  ruins 
and  retired  to  Chiselhampton,  in  which  estate  he  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Sir  John  Doyley.  Of  the  old  home  of  the 
Doyleys  at  Greenlands  nothing  remains,  but  in  the  grounds  of  the  present  house  may  still  be  seen  piles  of  cannon-balls 
which  have  been  gathered  *  from  the  site  of  the  former  mansion.” — Memorials  of  the  Danver’s  Family.  “Sir  John  D’Oyley  was 
created  a  baronet  in  1666,  whose  last  descendant,  Sir  William,  died  in  the  early  part  of  the  present  century.  With  him  the 

title  is  supposed  to  have  expired;  though  Sir  Bernard  Burke  declares  “that  fact  to  be  very  doubtful.”  But  he  makes  no 

further  allusion  to  any  existing  representative  or  possible  claimant.  Another  baronetcy  was  given  in  1821  to  Sir  John 
D’Oyley,  British  Resident  at  Kandy,  but  speedily  became  extinct.  A  third  was  granted  (1663)  to  Sir  William  D’Oyley  of 
Shottisham,  in  Norfolk,  who  had  served  with  great  gallantry  under  Gustavus  Adolphus.”  Duchess  of  Cleveland,  R.B.A. 

For  a  full  account  of  this  family,  based  upon  authorities  which  have  been  carefully  verified,  see  Bavley’s  Account  of 
the  House  of  D’Oyley.  London :  Bowyer,  Nichols  and  Son,  1845. 

The  following  particulars  concerning  the  Danvers  Family,  more  immediately  connected  with  William  Hovell  of  Sulgrave, 
are  taken  from  chapter  x  of  the  Memorials  of  the  Danvers  Family,  by  Dr.  Macnamara,  who  spells  the  name  “Howell” 
throughout: — John  Danvers  came  of  age  in  1545,  and  amongst  the  Additional  Charters  in  the  British  Museum,  Culworth 
Series,  No.  38,886,  is  the  deed  of  livery  from  the  Crown  to  John  Danvers,  son  and  heir  of  William  Danvers,  of  his  father’s 
lands.  The  deed  has  attached  to  it  a  fine  impression  of  the  groat  seal,  and  is  dated  at  Westminster,  6th  December, 
37  Henry  VIII.  John  Danvers  married  his  third  cousin,  Dorothy  Ravnesford,  daughter  of  Sir  William  Raynesford,  of  Great 
Tew.  His  life  was  short,  for  he  died  in  August,  1556,  aged  32,  leaving  his  children  in  the  charge  of  their  mother  and  Sir 
William  Raynesford.  John  Danver’s  will  (P.C.C.  11,  Kitchen),  1556,  provides  for  the  burial  of  his  body  in  the  chancel  of 
Culworth  Church.  He  leaves  legacies  to  his  four  daughters,  Temperance,  Justice,  Prudence,  and  Fortitude,  mentions  his  wife, 
Dorothy,  and  his  sons,  Samuel  and  Daniel.  As  overseers  to  his  will  he  appoints  Sir  William  Raynsford,  his  father-in-law, 
his  cousin,  Sir  William  Hungerford  (the  son  of  his  aunt,  Susan  Danvers,  and  Lord  Walter  Hungerford),  and  Sir  Richard 
Fenys,  who  was  also  his  first  cousin.  The  will  was  proved,  7th  August,  1556,  by  Sir  William  Raynsford,  acting  for  his 
daughter  Dorothy,  and  Additional  Charter  38,889,  dated  12th  November,  2  Elizabeth,  with  impressions  of  the  great  seal 
attached,  allows  Dorothy  to  comply  with  the  provisions  of  her  husband’s  will.  John  Danvers’  Inquisition  Post  Mirtem  (No. 
71,  3  and  4  Philip  and  Mary,  part  i).  was  taken  at  Daventre,  in  Northampton,  18th  January,  1556-57.  His  widow,  Dorothy, 
married  again;  her  second  husband  was  Sir  Thomas  Benger  ( vide  Berry’s  Kent  Genealogies,  228).  Her  daughter  Temperance 
married  Anthony  Dillon  ( vide  Betham’s  Baronetage),  of  Farthinghoe,  Northampton.  The  next  daughter,  Justice,  married  Richard 
Andrewes  {vide  Harleian  MSS.,  1553,  pp.  210-214,  and  1094,  pp.  78-89).  The  third  daughter,  Prudence,  married  William 
Hovell,  son  of  John  Hovell  of  Eynsham. 

Amongst  the  proceedings  in  Chancery  of  the  time  of  Elizabeth  (D.  d.  7,  No.  34,  7th  May  1585),  which  have  been 
preserved,  and  one  now  in  the  Record  Office,  is  a  petition  from  members  of  the  family  of  Danvers  of  Culworth  to  the  Lord 
Chancellor,  setting  forth  that  they  were  all,  through  John  Danvers,  of  the  blood  and  kindred  of  the  late  father  in'  God, 
William  Wickham,  and  asking  that  their  children  might  be  admitted  to  the  privilege  of  Founder’s  kin  at  Winchester  College 
and  at  New  College,  Oxford.  The  petition  was  refused  on  the  score  of  certain  technical  objections  which  the  wardens  of 
the  two  Colleges  raised,  one  of  them  being  that  the  petitioners  had  not  named  their  children,  or  shewn  that  they  had  any 
who  were  admissible  as  scholars ;  but  the  descent  was  not  denied,  and  the  document  is  valuable  as  a  confirmation  of  the 
descent  of  those  members  of  the  family  who  signed  it.  The  following  is  a  part  of  the  petition: — “Samuel  Danvers  of 
Culworth,  in  co.  Northampton,  Esq.,  and  Daniel  Danvers,  Gent.,  Anthony  Dalande,  Gent.,  and  Temperance  his  wife,  Richard 
Andrewes,  Gent.,  and  Justice  his  wife,  William  Hovell,  Gent.,  and  Prudence  his  wife,  Robert  Barker  Gent.,  on  behalf  of  his 
sons  being  infants  by  Mary  his  late  wife,  Henry  Sacheverell,  Gent.,  and  Dorothy  his  wife,  and  George  Blunte,  Gent.,  and 
Anne  his  wife,  complain  that  whereas  William  of  Wickham  sometime  Bishop  of  Winchester  founded  2  Colleges  and  the  same 
endowed  with  large  possessions,  and  ordained  among  other  things  that  his  kinsmen  should  enjoy  the  special  privilege  of 
being  admitted  fellows  and  scholars  of  the  said  Colleges  before  all  others :  And  whereas  the  said  Samuel  Danvers,  Daniel 
Danvers,  Temperance,  Justice,  Prudence,  Mary,  Dorothy  and  Anne  are  lineally  descended  of  the  ‘  bloude  and  kynred’  of  the 
said  Bishop,  to  wit,  the  said  Samuel,  Daniel,  Temperance,  Justice  and  Prudence  being  the  lawful  sons  and  daughters  of  John 
Danvers  of  Culworthe,  Esq.,  deceased,  son  of  William  Danvers  of  Culworthe,  Esq.,  deceased  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  also 
deceased,  and  the  said  Mary  late  wife  of  the  said  Robert  Barker,  Dorothy  late  wife  of  the  said  Henry  Sacheverell,  and  the 
said  Anne  now  wife  of  the  said  George  Blunte,  sisters  of  the  said  John  Danvers  son  of  the  said  William  and  Elizabeth, 
which  Elizabeth  was  daughter  of  one  Richard  Fenys,  of  Broughton  in  co.  Oxford,  Esq.,  son  of  Henry  Fern’s  Lord  Saye  and 
Setele  and  Margaret  his  wife,  which  Margaret  was  the  daughter  and  heir  of  William  Mickham,  Esq.,  son  of  Sir  Thomas 
Wickham  alias  Perrott,  Knight,  son  of  William  Perrott,  Gent.,  and  Alice  his  wife  which  Alice  was  the  daughter  of  one 

C  hampneys  and  Agnes  his  wife  which  Agnes  was  the  daughter  of  Wickham . of  the  said  Reverend  Bishop.”  The 

lower  part  of  this  document  is  torn  away. 


I^nutl)  als.  Dobell  of  Surrey. 


Will  of  ®!jomas  Jlmitlj,  1604. 

The  26th  day  of  December  in  the  first  yeare  of  King  James,  I,  Thomas  Smith  of  Ashfield 
Magna  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  do  pronounce  this  to  be  my  last  will  and  testament.  I 
bequeath  my  soul  to  Almighty  God  my  maker,  and  to  Jesus  Christ  his  deare  sonne  my 
Redeemer,  with  full  hope  and  assurance  of  pardon  and  forgiveness  of  my  sinnes.  I  give  to 

Elizabeth  my  wife  the  house  I  dwell  in  and  the  lands  thereto  belonging  in  Ashfield  and  Badwell 

Ashe,  to  hold  for  her  life,  except  a  close  called  Hargins,  bought  of  John  Whitehead  of  Hunston 
gent.,  which  I  give  to  Arthur  Smith  my  brother,  together  with  the  reversion  of  my  other  lands 

on  my  wife’s  decease.  To  the  poore  of  Ashfield  five  pounds.  My  wife  to  pay  John  Smith  and 

William  Smith  my  brothers  xx3  a  piece  yearly  during  their  lives.  To  Margaret  Noble,  wife  of 

Thomas  Noble,  and  to  Luce  Smith,  wife  of  John  Smith  my  brother,  and  to  Charity  Smith,  wife  of 

William  Smith  my  brother,  ten  shillings  each.  To  Elizabeth,  Dorothie  and  Thomasin,  the  daughters 

of  John  Smith  my  brother,  vi1  xiij8  iiijd  a  piece.  To  Ann,  Marie  and  Elizabeth  Smith,  the 
daughters  of  my  brother  William  Smith,  vi1  xiijs  iiijd  a  piece.  To  Thomas  Smith,  son  of  John 
Smith  my  brother,  and  to  John,  son  of  Richard  Smith  my  brother,  to  each  ten  pounds.  To 
Robert  Smith  my  brother  xxs :  and  to  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of  Francis  Morris,  xx*.  John  Baker 
and  George  Carter,  witnesses.  Proved  on  the  second  day  of  April,  1604,  by  the  executrix. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Book  “  Copping,”  fo.  304. 

The  bequest  to  Elizabeth,  the  wife  of  Francis  Morris,  connects  the  testator  with  the 
llovells  of  Surrey;  and  in  spite  of  discrepancies  one  seems  to  identify  him  with  Thomas  Smyth 
of  Ashfield,  the  uncle  of  that  lady,  who  died  sine  prole. 


Mill  of  Hotart  ^ntitli,  1617. 

The  nyn tenth  daie  of  Julie  1617  I  Robert  Smith,  Cittizen  of  London,  doe  make  this  my 
last  will.  My  psonall  estate  shalbe  accordinge  to  the  Lawdable  custome  of  the  Cittie  of  London 
devided  into  three  equal  partes.  One  thirde  parte  I  give  vnto  my  deare  and  lovinge  wife, 
Elizabeth  Smith.  One  other  third  parte  I  give  vnto  my  sonne  Robert  Smith.  Out  of  the  other 
third  parte  I  give  theise  legacies  heare  after  specified,  viz.  : — Vnto  my  deare  and  lovinge  mother, 
Elizabeth  Smith,  one  Annuytie  of  tenne  poundes  duringe  her  life.  Vnto  my  brother  Thomas 
Smith  two  hundreth  poundes.  Vnto  my  brother  John  Smith  two  hundreth  poundes,  and  to  the 
use  of  his  children  one  hundreth  poundes,  be  they  more  or  lesse,  to  be  equallie  devided  betweene 

H 


50 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


them.  Ynto  my  lovinge  mother  in  lawe  Blaunche  Yincente,  widdowe,  five  poundes.  Ynto  my 
brother  in  lawe,  Thomas  Collymore,  nlchant,  and  to  his  wife.  Ynto  my  wives  three  other  sisters. 
Vnto  my  brother  in  lawe  Frauncis  Morris  and  Margarett  (1),  his  wife,  the  some  of  thirtie  three 
poundes  six  shillings  and  eight  pence  to  be  bestowed  in  a  bason  and  Ewre  or  such  plate  as 
they  shall  thincke  fitt  to  be  kept  as  a  token  of  my  love.  Vnto  said  lovinge  brother  Frauncis 
Morrice  one  hundreth  poundes  to  the  vse  of  his  tenne  children.  Vnto  George  Sharpulls,  my 
wives  sonne  by  her  first  husband,  two  hundreth  and  thirtie  poundes.  Ynto  my  kynde  and 
loveinge  vncle  Mr  Henry  Yincente,  Marchaunts,  and  to  Dorcas  his  wife  Ynto  John  Warren 
my  wives  nephewe.  Vnto  the  poore  people  of  Badwellashe  in  SufF.  where  I  was  bounde  [sic] 
five  poundes.  To  my  vncle  William  Howell  my  mother’s  brother  for  a  token  of  my  love  five 
poundes.  If  my  said  sonne  Roberte  Smith  shall  departe  this  life  before  he  shall  accomplish  the 
age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares  his  porcon  shalbe  devided  betweene  my  aforesaid  brothers, 
Thomas  and  John  Smith,  and  theire  children  and  John  Sharpulls,  his  brother,  yf  he  shalbe  then 
livinge.  The  residue  of  my  said  third  parte,  my  legacies  paid,  I  give  to  my  wife.  I  appointe 
the  foresaide  Elizabeth  Smith  my  wife,  the  said  Francis  Morrice  my  brother  in  lawe,  and 
Richard  Walcote  my  lovinge  ffrend  to  be  executors.  My  brother  Thomas  Smith  and  Robert 
Edwardes,  my  true  and  lovinge  freinde,  to  be  overseers  of  this  my  last  will,  and  to  be 
assistantes  to  my  executors.  Andrea  Bassano  a  witness. 

Probatum  decimo  tertio  die  Augusti  1617  Jurament  Executorum. 

P.C.C  125  Weldon. 


Will  of  ®lipbt>tl)  Smtttl),  1623. 

The  thirteenth  day  of  May  1623,  Elizabeth  Smith  of  great  Ashfeild  in  the  County  of 
Suff.,  widowe,  doe  make  this  my  last  will  and  testament.  I  bequeath  vnto  John  Morice  sonne 
and  heire  of  Frauncis  Morice,  my  sonn  in  lawe,  the  some  of  twenty  poundes  when  hee  shall 
accomplish  his  full  age  of  fower  and  twenty  yeares.  Ynto  Mary  Ayers,  one  of  the  daughters 
of  the  said  Frauncis  Morice.  Ynto  Anne,  the  wife  of  Adreah  Bassano,  one  other  of  the 
daughters  of  the  said  Frauncis  Morice.  Vnto  Robert  Morice,  William,  Thomas,  Christopher, 
Fraunces  and  Margaret  Morice,  sonns  and  daughters  of  the  said  Frauncis  Morice,  at  their  severall 
ages  of  one  and  twenty  years.  Vnto  Robert  Smith,  sonne  of  Robart  Smith,  my  grand  child,  at 
the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  Vnto  John  Smith,  Robarte  Smith,  Elizabeth  Smith,  Anne 
Smith  and  Priscilla  Smith,  the  sonns  and  daughters  of  John  Smith,  my  sonne,  at  their  severall 
ages,  etc.,  or  severall  daies  of  marriag.  Thomas  Smith,  my  sonne,  is  nowe  indebted  vnto  me  the 
summe  of  one  hvndred  fower  score  and  fifteene  poundes ;  if  hee  shall  refuse  to  giue  securitie  he 
shall  take  no  benifitt  by  this  my  will,  but  shall  stand  accomptable  to  my  executors  for  the 
whole  debt.  I  ordaine  John  Smith,  my  sonne,  sole  executor.  Witnesses  William  Frost,  clef, 
Humfry  Howlett,  Luce  Smith  and  others. 

Probatum  vltimo  die  Junij  1623  Juramento  Johannis  Smith  filij  dicte  defuncti.  Decimo 
quarti  Maij  1632  emanavit  Priscille  Smith  relce  Johis  Smith  def  filij  et  exris  testi  Elizabeth 
Smith  vidua;  ad  adstrand  bona  dee  Elizabethie  non  abstrat  p  Johem  Smith  filiu  et  exrem  noiat. 

P.C.C.  57  Swann. 


SMITH  ALS.  HOVELL  OF  SURREY. 


51 


Andrea  Bassano  of  London,  1633,  who  married  Anne,  daughter  of  Francis  Morris  of 
Wanstead,  in  co.  Essex,  Esq.,  was  the  second  son  of  Arthur  Bassano,  musician  to  Queen 
Elizabeth,  and  grandson  of  Anthony  Bassano,  an  Italian,  musician  to  Henry  the  Eighth,  Edward 
the  Sixth  and  Queen  Mary.  He  and  other  members  of  his  family  entered  pedigrees,  since 
printed  by  the  Harleian  Society,  in  the  Visitations  of  London,  Essex,  Hertfordshire,  etc.,  and 
have  had  numerous  descendants. 


Siniti)  of  lung's  ffioll.  Cant.,  1646 — 1706. 


The  following  account  of  John  Smith  als  Hovell,  Vice  Provost  of  King’s  College,  Cambridge 
who  seems  to  have  been  a  near  kinsman  of  the  Smiths  of  Badwell  and  of  Surrey,  is  taken 
from  the  manuscript  Catalogue  by  Anthony  Allen  relating  to  the  Provosts  and  Fellows  of  that 
house. 


“John  Smith,  the  younger.  John  Smith,  alias  Hovell,  was  born  at  Eton,  Bucks,  about 
the  Feast  of  the  Nativity  [1627];  he  was  son  of  John  Smith,  a  member  of  this  College,  who 
was  admitted  in  1603;  a  separate  account  of  whom  I  give  below. 


“The  first  named  John  Smith  was  admitted  Scholar,  August  25,  1646,  being  17  years  of 
age,  and  Fellow,  August  25,  1649.  In  1668  he  was  Senior  Proctor  of  the  University;  Vice 
Provost  of  this  College  from  1694 — 1706.  I  do  not  know  the  year  he  took  his  B.A.  degree. 
He  was  M.A.  1653.  He  died  August  23,  1706,  and  was  buried  two  days  later  in  the  Vestry  of  the 
College  Chapel  near  the  Clock-house.  He  was  blind,  through  age,  some  years  before  his  death. 
The  inscription  (see  below)  on  his  body-stone  was  written  by  Provost  Roderick.  He  was  a 
little,  merry,  inoffensive  old  man,  and  had  in  some  measure  applied  himself  to  the  study  of 
physic  and  not  unseen  in  cookery.” 

So  much  from  Anthony  Allen.  He  does  not  appear  to  have  left  any  will,  as  administi’a- 
tion  of  his  estate  was  granted  by  the  Provost  of  this  College  to  “  Marie  Symcots,  spinster,  of 
the  parish  of  S*  Botolph,  Aldersgate,  London,”  on  August  27,  1706.  He  held  no  Benefice,  as 
he  was  always  a  Fellow  of  the  College  and  therefore  not  eligible. 

The  following  inscription  on  his  Body-stone  is  in  the  ninth  side  Chapel  from  West  on 
North  side : — 


Joanris  Smith  Etonensis  A.M. 

Colleg  :  Regal :  Socii  Senioris, 
et  per  XI  annos  Vici-Prcepositi 
qui  suavi  indole,  ad  modestiam 

limitatem  concordiamq3  facta, 
longcevam  vitam  placide  produxit, 
et  Collegarum  benevolentam 
vel  in  senecute  et  coecicate 

ad  extremum  retinuit. 

i  AD.  1706. 

Obiit  die  23  Augusti  j  ^  ?9 

H' 


52 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


“John  Smith,  the  Elder.  This  John  Smith  or  Smithe  was  born  at  Huntstone  or  Hunston 
(near  Stowmarket)  in  Suffolk  about  the  Feast  of  Saint  Michael.  He  was  admitted  Scholar, 

August  25,  1G03,  at  the  age  of  17.  He  was  admitted  Fellow,  August  26,  1606.  On  January  9, 
1624,  he  was  presented  by  this  College  to  the  Vicarage  of  Broadchalke,  Wilts,  which  he  resigned 
about  July  following  on  being  chosen  Fellow  of  Eton.  In  1630  he  was  presented  by  Eton 
College  to  the  Vicarage  of  Mapledurham,  Oxon.  He  died  the  latter  end  of  the  year  1635  at 
Eton  College,  and  was  buried  in  Eton  College  Chapel.  He  was  an  excellent  Scholar,  and  a  very 
good  and  pious  man,  answerable  to  which  character  his  death  became  universally  lamented.” 

In  an  early  catalogue  relating  to  the  Fellowes  and  Provosts  of  King’s  College,  Cambridge, 
written  about  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century,  the  Coat  of  Arms  is  the  same  for  both 
Smiths,  viz.,  Sable,  a  cross  Or.  We  are  indebted  to  Mr.  F.  L.  Clarke,  of  King’s  College, 

Cambridge,  for  the  above  particulars. 

Eut  who  was  the  father  of  John  Smith  als  Hovell,  the  Fellow  of  Eton  1  In  November 
1607  Thomas  How  of  Langham,  whose  will  was  proved  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  bequeathed  a 
pasture  to  Julian,  wife  of  John  Smith  of  Hunston,  whom  he  named  as  his  executor.  John 
Smith,  the  eldest  son  of  this  John  and  Julian,  who  are  usually  described  as  of  Langham,  an 
adjoining  village,  was  born  in  or  about  the  year  1585,  and  would  have  been  seventeen  years 
old  in  August  16t3.  It  may,  after  all,  have  been  this  eldest  son  who  put  together  the  Langham 
section,  otherwise  unaccounted  for,  of  the  Smith  als  Hovell  pedigree  which  found  its  way  into 
the  Harleian  MSS.  (See  Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  ii,  20,  21).  On  the  other  hand,  John 
Smith,  the  brother  of  Arthur  Smith  of  Hunston,  had  a  son  who  is  named  in  the  pedigree  of 
Smith  als  Hovell  of  Surrey  (see  p.  53),  and  who  seems  equally  to  correspond  with  the  John 

Smith  who  was  chosen  Fellow  of  Eton  in  1622.  There  is  no  entry  of  his  baptism  in  the 

parish  registers  of  Hunston,  Langham  or  Badwell  to  decidq  the  question. 


Will  of  ^rtljirr  1558, 

The  laste  daye  of  September,  1558,  Arthur  Smyth  of  Badwell  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk. 
To  Elizebeth  my  wyfe  my  howse  and  lands  in  Badwell,,  Asshfelde  A  Hunston  ;  she  to  bring 
up  my  children.  To  Anne  my  daughter ;  Katherine  Cage  her  god  mother  late  dwelling  in 
Burie.  Vnto  Robert  my  sonne  my  howse  and  land  in  lladwell,  & c.,  after  my  wyfe’s  decease ; 
he  to  pay  my  other  foure  sonnes  Thomas,  John,  Arthur  and  William,  to  evy  of  them  sixtene 
poundes.  The  Residue  of  my  goodes,  &c.,  to  Elizabeth  my  wyfe.  Probate  13  Dec.  1558. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Bell,”  fo.  445. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  the  sons  of  the  testator  are  referred  to  in  the  same  order,  and 
have  the  same  names,  and  must  have  lived  at  the  same  time  as  those  of  Robert  Smith  als 
Hovell  in  the  pedigree  on  the  opposite  page.  So  striking  a  coincidence  suggests  the  question 
whether  “  Robert  ”  was  not  inadvertently  substituted  for  “  Arthur  ”  by  the  Herald  or  the 
copyist  who  transcribed  the  Visitation.  For  he  made  other  blunders,  describing  Badwell  Ash  as 
in  Norfolk,  and  Robert  the  son  of  Robert  Smyth  of  London  as  two  years  old  in  1623,  when 
he  must  have  been  eleven  at  the  least.  We  have  no  evidence  of  a  Robert  Smyth  of  Badwell 
at  the  period  indicated,  whilst  there  is  abundant  testimony,  besides  his  will,  respecting  the 
Arthur  Smyth,  who  seems  so  exactly  to  fill  his  place. 


SMITH  ALS.  HOYELL  OF  SURREY. 


53 


•prtjtijjm,  als.  Dobell  of  purify. 


Robert  Smyth  als.  Hovell  of  Badivell  Ashe  in  Com.  Norff.  ( Suffolk). = 
Was  this  not  Arthur  Smyth  of  Badwell,  who  made  Will  30  Sept. 
1558? 


- 1 

I.  John= 
Astey  of  Hun-  Smyth 
ston  in  Com.  of  Ash- 
Suff.  ffeld. 


(2).  Thomas  Smyth  of  Ash-  1.  Robert  Smyth  of=j=Elizebeth  d.  of  Rob.  Smyth  of  Walsham  in  the  4.  Arthur  Smyth -p.  ..  d.  of  .  . 


ffeld  in  com.  Suff.  oh.  s.p.  Badwelle  Ashe  in 
— Anne  d.  of  Thomas  Astey  com.  Norff.  (Suf- 
of  .  .  .  in  Corn.  Suff.  folk). 


Thomas  Smyth  of  Chert-- 
sey  in  com.  Surrey,  Ser¬ 
geant  of  the  .  .  .  Car¬ 
riages;  entered  pedi¬ 
gree  in  the  Visitation 
of  Surrey  1623. 


= Elizebeth  d.  of  Sr 
John  Watts  Knt 
Maior  of  London: 
widdow  of  Henery 
Inwood  of  Walton 
uppon  Thames. 


Willows  in  Com.  Suff. :  sister  of  William  of  Hunston  in 
Hovell.  Her  Will,  P.C.C.  57  Swann,  13  May  com.  Suff. 

1623,  prob.  30  June  following. 


Elizebeth  ux  ffrancis  Morris  Esqr 
of  Com.  Norff.  Clarice  of  the 
Ordnance.  Her  daughters,  Anne, 
wife  of  Andrae  Bassano,  and 
Mary  Ayers  are  named  1623  in 
her  mother’s  Will. 


Elizebeth  d.  8f  heire  vx 
Humffrey  Howlett  of 
Hunston  in  Com.  Suff. 
He  was  a  witness  to 
Elizabeth  Smith’s 
Will  in  1623.  . 


John  Smyth.  Rich- 
Was  he  Fellow  ard 
of  Eton,  1622,  Smyth. 
and  Vicar  of 
Mapledurham, 

1630  ? 


2.  Robert  Smyth  of  London  lether  seller. =^Elizebeth,  sister  of=j=.  .  .  Sharpulls, 


Will,  P.C.C.  125  Weldon,  19  July  1617, 
proved  3  Aug.  following  ;  names  Wm. 
Howell,  his  mother’s  brother. 


Henry  Vincent  of 
London, merchant, 
and  relict  of  .  .  . 
Sharpulls. 


1st  husband. 


John  Smyth  of  Ashffeld  hall: 
in  Com.  Suffolk :  named  as 
executor  in  his  mother’s 
Will,  but  dead  in  1632. 


'-Priscilla  d.  of  Walter  Brampton 
of  Com.  Suffolk  :  administered 
her  mother  in  law’s  Will  in 
1632. 


Robert  Smyth  2  yere  old 
1623  (?),  living  and  under 
age  in  1617  and  1623. 


George  Sharpulls, 
half  brother  to 
Robert  Smyth. 


John  Smith,  Walter  Xpoffer.  Priscilla  8f 
living  1623.  Smith.  Anne,  liv- 

1623. 


Robert  and  Anne,  nam¬ 
ed  in  their  grand¬ 
mother’s  Will. 


The  Arms  assigned  to  Smith  als.  Hovell  of  Chertsey  at  the  Visitation  of  Surrey  in  1623  were,  Sable,  a  cross  Or, 
and  the  Crest,  a  greyhound  couchant  Or,  collared  and  lined  Sable,  as  used  by  the  Hovells  als.  Smyths  of  Ashfield  in  1664. 
They  accompany  the  pedigree  (which  is  printed  above  in  italics )  in  Harl.  MS.  1561,  fo.  203  b. 


otiell  of  ®Bi’\)crstonc. 


Jlrmoml  Searings. 

There  is  abundant  evidence  as  to  the  arms  of  the  knightly  family  of  Hovell  of  Wyverstone 
in  the  thirteenth  and  fourteenth  centuries.  Some  authorities,  indeed,  allude  to  their  adoption  in 
the  time  of  King  Henry  III,  but  all  are  agreed  as  to  the  shields  of  Sir  Hugh  Hovell  and 
Sir  Stephen  Hovell  in  the  wars  of  Edward  I.  Amongst  the  many  MSS.,  some  contemporary 
with  the  men  they  treat  of,  which  describe  these  insignia,  is  that  known  as  “  Guillim’s  Roll,” 
Harl.  MS.  6,137,  which  has  been  printed  in  the  first  volume  of  The  Genealogist ,  with  an 
introduction  by  the  late  Mr.  Greenstreet.  He  estimated  its  date  as  about  the  year  1300.  Under 
the  heading  “  Names  of  all  that  were  with  King  Edward  I.  in  Scotland  and  France,”  we  find 
“  Sr  IIeweh  Hovell,”  Sable,  a  cross  Or,  and  “Sr  Esteven  Hovell,”  Sable,  a  cross  Or  with  a 
label  of  three  points  Argent.  Amongst  the  Knights,  possibly  of  a  later  reign,  were  “  Robert 

Hovell”  (fo.  46b.)  and  “Sire  Roberd  Houell  ”  (fo.  59),  with  Sable,  a  cross  Or.  .  There  are  also 

names  akin  to  Hovell,  as  “  Sr  Geffery  de  Hautevile,”  who  bore  Argent,  semee  of  crosses  croslet 
a  lion  rampant  Sable ;  Sir  John  Hovile,  Per  cross  Or  and  Sable,  in  the  first  quarter  a  martlet 
Gules ;  and  Hugo  de  Houile,  Argent  a  bend  Azure  with  a  label  of  five  points  Gules.  But  these 
seem  to  have  belonged  to  counties  other  than  Suffolk. 

In  the  first  volume  of  “Parliamentary  Writs,”  a  folio  work  published  by  the  Record 
Commissioners,  are  given  “  Les  Nohs  e  les  Armes  a  Baneres  de  Engletere,”  from  Cotton  MS. 

Caligula,  A.  16.  Amongst  the  Knights  of  “  Suthfolk  ”  are  “Sire  Huge  Houel  :  de  sable  a  une 

crois  de  or,”  and  “  Sire  Estevene  Houel :  meisme  les  armes,  a  un  label  de  argent.” 

Under  the  heading  “  Milites  Comitatus  Suffolk  ”  there  are  drawings  of  the  arms  of  Sir  Hugh 

and  Sir  Stephen  Hovell  in  Harl.  MS.  1,386,  a  volume  of  Heraldic  Collections.  A  memorandum 
on  the  title  page  tells  us  it  had  been  “  Bought  of  Mr.  John  Gwillim,  pursuivant  of  Armes, 

14°  May  1612.”  This  was  the  editor  of  “  Gwillim’s  Display  of  Heraldry,”  printed  in  1610.  He 

was  appointed  Portsmouth  Herald,  and  died  in  1621. 

In  Harl.  MS.  1086,  amongst  the  “  Knightes  that  were  in  the  tyme  of  Kinge  E.  ye  4,” 
is  “  Sr  Hugh  Hovell,  S.,  a  plaine  cros  Or.”  We  have  no  other  evidences  of  a  Sir  Hugh  Hovell 
at  this  date,  and  the  name  was  probably  so  inserted  by  an  error. 

“  bes  Nomes  de  Chevaliers  en  le  champ  de  Henry  3”  are  given  in  Lansdown  MS.  855, 

which  has  been  printed  in  the  “Antiquarian  Repertory,”  vol.  i,  93.  It  agrees  with  a  MS., 

formerly  belonging  to  Tom  Martin,  quoted  by  Davy  in  his  “Suffolk  Armoury,”  which,  under 

“  SouthfolU,”  enumerates  “Sir  Hugo  Houel  and  Sir  Estevene  Houel.”  These  names  occur,  too,  in 
Harl.  MS.  6,589  in  “  The  Copy  of  a  very  ancient  Role  wrought  in  Colours  in  Parchment  in  the 


JIOVKLL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


55 


tyme  of  King  Edward  y°  first,  remayning  in  the  custody  of  Mr.  John  Guilement,  Portesmouth, 
who  lent  me  the  originall”;  and  also  in  another  portion  of  the  same  MS.,  under  the  heading, 
“  All  these  Kts  lived  temp.  Edw.  I,  and  in  his  warres  agaynst  Robert  le  Bruis,  vsurper.” 

Papworth  states,  in  his  “  Ordinary  of  British  Armorials,”  that  Sable,  a  cross  Or  was  borne 
at  various  periods  by  Bellesly,  Braham,  Faunell,  Havell,  Havenell,  Hovell,  Howell  of  Soulgrave, 
and  Smith  of  Chertsey  in  Surrey,  and  gives  us  his  authorities  for  each  name.  Whatever  its 
origin,  the  golden  cross  on  a  black  shield  is  at  once  one  of  the  simplest  and  most  sightly 
coats  accorded  by  the  heralds. 

The  evidences  respecting  the  Hovells  of  Wyverstone  are  numerous,  and  the  twenty-eighth 
volume  of  the  Harrison  MSS.  in  the  Public  Record  Office  abounds  in  references  to  early  Fines, 
Close  Rolls,  Judicial  Proceedings,  Charters  and  Feudal  Aids  bearing  upon  the  history  of  the 
family.  Some  of  these,  mostly  in  abstract,  are  given  below. 


iltrljarit  liofoll  tump.  Militant  tlju  Cumjuurcr. 

Domesday  omnium  Maneriorum  sci  Edihi . Ad  Wyuerdeston  ix  libros  et  Si.  de  cx 

acf  tre  ex  ill  v.  et  dimiS  tenet  Ricus  Houel  de  sco  Edo  T  Baldwino  abbate. 

Liber  Pinchebeck,  fo.  180a,  col.  2. 

Domesday  of  all  the  Manors  of  St.  Edmund . At  Wiverston  nine  pounds  and  a 

half  (rental)  from  one  hundred  and  ten  acres  of  land  :  of  these  Richard  Hoverel  holds  five  and 
a  half  of  St.  Edmund  and  Baldwin  the  abbot. 

In  another  Bury  MS.,  also  in  the  University  Library  at  Cambridge,  called  “  Liber  Niger,” 
this  entry  occurs  again,  but  the  name,  contracted  in  Liber  Pinchebeck  into  “  Houel,”  is  extended 
into  “  Houerel.” 

It  is  probable  that  the  name  “Hovel”  was  converted  into  “Hoverel”  by  a  thoughtless 
flourish  of  the  original  writer.  For  the  Hovells  were  connected  with  Wyverstone  for  centuries 
following  the  Conquest.  Within  an  hundred  years  of  the  time  when  Baldwin  was  Abbot  of  Bury,  as 
will  be  seen  below,  Adam  Hovell  is  known  to  have  held  lands  in  that  parish.  Baldwin  died  in 
1098,  and  Adam  Hovell  acquired  these  lands  before  1189.  As  Richard  “Hovell,”  the  so-called 
“  Hoverill  ”  gave  certain  tithes  to  the  Priory  of  Eye,  a  gift  which  was  confirmed  by  Henry  I 
(1100—1135),  and  afterwards  by  King  Stephen: — 

“  Robtus  Malet  p  cartam  suam  fundationis  Ecclie  conv  de  Eya  confirmavit  Monachis  ibm 
donationem  quam  Ricus  Hovel  dedit  eis  de  duabj  ptbij  decime  sue  in  Wiuerdeston.  (Peg.  Prior 
de  Eya  fo.  17).  Henr  Rex  confirmavit  eisd  decimam  Ric  Houel  Wyuerdeston.  (lb.  fol.  19). 
Stephus  Rex  confirmavit  similr.”  (Ib.  fo.  21.)  See  Davy’s  Suffolk  Collections,  under  “Wyverstone.” 

Robert  Malet  by  his  charter  of  the  foundation  of  the  Conventual  Church  of  Eye  confirms 
to  the  monks  there  the  gift  which  Richard  Hovel  gave  to  them  of  two  parts  of  his  tythes  in 
Wyverstone.  King  Henry  confirmed  to  them  the  tythe  of  Richard  Hovell  at  Wyverstone.  King 
Stephen  made  a  similar  confirmation. 

Baldwin,  King  Edward  the  Confessor’s  physician,  became  Abbot  of  Bury  in  1065,  on  the 
death  of  Leofstan  his  predecessor.  He  died  in  1098.  There  is  an  excellent  memoir  of  him  in 
the  Dictionary  of  National  Biography. 


56 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


In  Domesday  itself,  Richard  Hovell  is  called  “  Richard  ”  only.  “  'mdf.  .  .  .  Hertesmara. 

H.  ...  In  Wiuerdestuna,  iiii.  lib  cofhdat  xvi,  ac  T  dim.  &  uat<k.  iii,  sot  Ricardus  tenet.’ 

Domesday ,  vol.  ii,  371. 

“  Registrum  W.  Pinchebeck,”  one  of  the  most  valuable  of  the  old  Bury  records,  now  in 

the  University  Library  at  Cambridge  (EE.,  iii,  60),  is  a  parchment  quarto  of  329  leaves,  relating 

to  the  property  of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Edmund.  It  was  compiled  from  many  sources  by  the  monk 
whose  name  it  bears  The  general  heading  to  the  MS.  is  “  De  itiner  Salamonis  de  Roff  T; 

socioi^,  Anno  rf  E.  fit  R.  H.  xiiii0,  Incipiente  xv°  ”  (1287). 

Amongst  the  companions  of  William  the  Conqueror  ennumerated  in  some  extant  copies  of 
the  Roll  of  Battle  Abbey  occur  the  names  of  Hovell  and  Hautville.  The  Roll  itself  is  no 
longer  in  existence,  and  the  transcripts  are  notoriously  untrustworthy.  There  is  every  reason 

to  think  that  Hovell  who  witnessed  the  charter  of  Leofstan  in  the  reign  of  Edward  the 

Confessor,  and  was  perhaps  identical  with  the  Richard  Hovell  of  Liber  Pinchebeck,  was,  as  his 
name  implies,  a  Saxon.  The  Hautvilles,  on  the  other  hand,  were  indubitably  of  continental 
descent,  and,  adopting  other  Arms,  retained  the  Norman  spelling  of  their  name  for  many 
generations. 


A&am  Hobcll  temp.  Henry  aitfr  Htttg  Joint. 

Suff.  Rob  de  Giselingha  pet  $sus  Ada  Houell  xl  acr  t  c  pt  i  Wiuerdeston  sic  Jus  suu 
qm  tra  Hub  fit  Walt  9gnat  ei9— cus  hes  id  Rob  q-  Tuad  eid  Ad  ad  f  min  q1  jTtiit  tpe  H  R 
pats.  Ada  ueii  T  defend  iuad  T  die  ilia  tra  ee  Jus  suu  °t  hereditate  sua  T  pon  se  I  magna 
assam  DnT  R.  Sclt  q’s  eo£  mai9  Jus  hab  I  tra  ilia  °t  Rob  silr  Dies  dap  eis  i  ocb  sci  Mart 
T  tc  uen  iiij  ad  elig  xij  Ada  pon  loco  suo  Ada  fit  suu  Tc. 

Curia  Regis,  4  John,  No.  28,  m.  2,  dorso  (103). 

Rob1  de  Giselingham  demands  against  Adam  Hovell  xl  acres  of  land  with  appurtenances  in 
Wiverdeston  as  his  right ;  which  land  Hubert  fitz  Walter,  his  kinsman,  whose  heir  the  said 
Robert  is,  mortgaged  to  the  said  Adam  Hovell  for  a  term  which  is  past,  in  the  time 
of  Henry,  the  King’s  father.  Adam  comes  and  defends  the  mortgage  and  says  the  said  land 
is  his  right  and  inheritance,  and  he  puts  himself  on  the  great  assize  of  the  Lord  King 
to  know  which  of  them  hath  the  greater  right  in  the  said  land  :  and  Robert  de  Giselingham 

does  the  same.  A  day  was  given  them  in  the  octave  of  St.  Martin,  and  then  come  iiij  to 

choose  xij.  Adam  puts  in  his  place  Adam  his  son,  etc. 

Amongst  the  Suffolk  Pleas  in  the  thirteenth  year  of  Henry  III  (1229)  is  one  in  which 
the  Jury  decided  that  Gilbert  Fitz  Ralph  had  defrauded  Adam  Hovell  of  common  pasture  in 
Hunston  belonging  to  his  freehold  there  ( Coram  Rege  Roll  13  II.  3,  m.  18).  In  the  same 
year  he  was  found  to  have  owed  rent  for  a  mill  in  Hunston  or  Hunterston  which  had  been 
pulled  down  ( lb .  m.  37  dorso).  He  was  also  a  juryman  in  a  plea  relating  to  the  presentation 
to  the  church  of  Barningham  in  that  county.  In  one  of  the  Suffolk  Fines  of  the  twelfth  year 
of  King  John  (1211)  he  acted  as  attorney  for  Hubert  de  Monte  Kamiso  in  the  purchase  of 

lands  of  John  Fitz  Roland  (Fine,  Suff.  12  John,  No.  55).  The  mill  in  Hunston  seems  to  have 

been  sold  in  1291  by  William  Hovell,  his  grandson.  (De  Banco  Roll,  Mich.  18  and  19  Edw.  I ,. 
Harrison  MSS.  XXVIII,  233). 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


57 


Hobrrt  Uobdl  aitb  Utargmi  bis  imh,  1225. 

Placita  apud  Westm  de  T5mino  ste  HiHr  anno  nono.  [Henry  III]  SufF:  Thom  de  Haia 
pet  u  Robm  de  Hauuift  T  Mar^1  ux  eius  man]  fii  de  Weston  cu  pt  ut  ius  suii  etc.  d  Rob  ff. 
Mar^  ueunt  1  die  qd  tenuunt  maSrn  illud  de  Dno  R.  1  dns  R.  illud  cepifc  in  manu  sua  T; 
tenuit  d  Thom  hoc  cogn  T  io  sn  die  quosq3  rehuint  manjfn  suu. 

Curia  Regis  Roll,  No.  89,  membrane  9  (9  H.  3). 

Pleas  at  Westminster  in  Hillary  Term,  19  Henry  III,  Suffolk.  Thomas  de  Hay  seeks 
versus  Robert  de  Hovell  and  Margery  his  wife  his  Manor  of  Weston  as  his  right,  etc.  And 
Robert  and  Margery  came  and  said  that  they  held  that  manor  of  the  King,  and  the  King  took 
it  into  his  hands  and  now  holds  it.  And  Thomas  Hay  acknowledged  this ;  and  therefore  it  will 
be  returned  to  them  upon  some  day  not  as  yet  determined. 

Robert  Hovell  and  Margery  his  wife  are  mentioned  in  legal  documents  in  1225  and 
again  in  1253.  (Close  Boll,  37  II.  S,  m.  3  dorso).  He  held  the  manors  of  Weston,  Wiverstone, 
and  Horpole  in  Wickhambrook,  and  lands  in  Cheston  and  Westhorpe.  (Suffolk  Fines,  2J/.  II.  3, 
No.  39).  In  1231  he  had  the  King’s  licence  to  hunt  foxes  and  hares  in  the  forest  of  Essex, 
and  a  grant  of  free  warren  at  Wiverstone,  with  a  fair  there  yearly.  (Close  Boll,  15  II.  3,  m.  3). 
He  is  called  Robert  Hovell,  senior,  and  was  perhaps  an  old  man  in  1258,  when  Ada,  the  widow 
of  Hubert  Hovell,  his  son,  claimed  her  dower  of  his  Horpole  lands  He  seems  to  have  (Jied 
before  1268,  for  Weston  and  Horpole  had  then  passed  to  Robert  Hovell,  Hubert’s  brother,  the 
husband  of  Alianora.  (Coram  Bege  Boll,  52  II.  3,  m.  2). 


hnbofo  of  Kalpb  Hobell,  Jfm t  1229. 

Hec  est  finalis  concord  fca  in  Cur  dni  Reg  apud  Cateshill  in  die  Aploj  Sirnois  T  Judae 
anh  regni  Reg  Henr  fil  Reg  Job  ?cio  decimo,  Coram  Marcm  de  Pateshill  Decan  Sci  Pauli 
Lond,  Stephan  de  Segne,  Thom  de  Haydon,  Wiho  de  Insula,  Justic  &  aliis  dni  Reg  fidelibj 
tuc  ibi  fisentibj.  In?  Alic  que  fuit  vx  Rad  Houel  petn  T  Ranulf  Pinuernel  ten  de  medietate 
octo  acrar  tre  cu  ptin  in  Wynerdeston.  Et  in?  eande  Alic  peth  T;  Regih  de  New  eh  age  ten  de 
medietate  quatuor  acr  tre  cu  ptin  in  eade  uilla.  Et  in?  eande  Alic  peth  T  Thom  camariu  ten 
de  medietate  duar  acrar  tre  cu  ptin  in  eade  uilla.  Et  in?  eande  Aliceam  peth  T  Xpianam  de 
Baketon  ten  de  medietate  triu  acr  tre  cu  ptin  in  eade  uilla  que  eade  Alic  clamabat  et  de 
ronabili  dote  sua  quae  earn  contingebat  de  libo  ten  qd  fuit  Rad  Houel  quondam  viri  sui  in  eade 
villa.  Vn  placitu  sum  fuit  inP  eos  in  eade  Cur.  Soil  qd  [idea  Alic  remisit  T  quietu  clamauit 
de  se  fidcis  Ranulf,  Regih,  Thom  °t  Xpiane  T  hedibj  eo^  totu  ins  T  clamium  quod  habuit  in 
tota  pdea  tras  cu  ptin  noihie  dotis  inpetuu.  Et  p  he  remissioe  quieta  clam  fine  T  concord 
jldic  Ranu,  Reginald,  Thom,  T  Xpiiana  dedernt  pdee  Alic  viginta  sol  stlingo^.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  File  7,  No.  156. 

This  document  records  the  last  act  in  the  suit  by  which  Alice,  widow  of  Ralph  Hovell, 
sought  of  Ranulph  Pinvernell,  Reginald  de  Newehage,  Thomas  Chamberlain  and  Christian  de 

I 


58 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Baketon,  respectively,  the  moiety  of  certain  lands  (specified)  in  Wyverstone,  as  her  dower  in  the 
free  holding  which  formerly  belonged  to  her  late  husband.  (See  memorandum  of  previous  pro¬ 
ceedings  in  the  Coram  Rege  Rolls  of  the  thirteenth  year  of  Henry  the  third,  Harrison  MSS., 
P.R.O.,  vol.  xxviij,  122).  A  plea  was  agreed  upon  between  them,  Namely  that  Alice  Hovell 
renounced  her  claim  of  dower,  and  the  defendants  gave  her  twenty  shillings  Stirling. 


JUitart  irobdl,  lirnta  to  bunt  J fans,  &c.  1251. 

p  Robto  Hovel. 

Rex  cocessit  Robto  Hovel  qd  ipe  T;  hedes  sui  libe  A  sn  imped  forestiarioj  R  T 
eor^  ministj  p  tota  baftam  foresta  Essex  hant  canes  suos  crrentes  ad  uulpe  &  lepore  &  ea 
fugandu  rt  capiendu  sic  pleni9  continetr  T  carta  R  ei  inde  fca.  Et  mand:  est  Rico  de  Munfichet 
qd  eid  Robto  T  bed  suis  pmittat  here  sine  imped  canes  suos  currentes  p  tota  pdcam  foresta 
ad  lepore  rt  uulpe  T.  ea  fugand  T:  capiend  sic  jidcm  est  T  R  ap  Castru  Matild  xv  die  Sept. 

Close  Roll,  15  Hen.  3,  m.  3. 

The  King  has  granted  to  Robert  Hovel  that  he  and  his  heirs  may  have  freely  and  with¬ 
out  impeachment  of  the  King’s  foresters  and  their  ministers,  through  the  whole  forest  bailywick 

of  Essex,  their  dogs  running  for  fox  or  hare  and  to  chase  and  take  the  same,  as  is  more  fully 

contained  in  the  King’s  charter  to  him  thereupon  made.  And  it  is  commanded  Richerd  de 

Munfichet  that  he  permit  the  said  Robert  and  his  heirs  to  have  without  impeachment  their 

dogs  running  through  all  the  aforesaid  forest  for  hare  and  fox  and  to  chase  and  take  the 
same  as  is  aforesaid.  Witness  the  King  at  the  Castle  of  Matilda  the  15th  day  of  September. 


liobrrt  Ijobi'U  Wxtmu  tu  Ijab£  a  JJtarket  $et.  in  SSibn-stom.  1251- 

Rex  cocessit  eid  Robto  qd  ipe  V  hedes  sui  hant  vna  fer  singut  annis  ap  maSiu  suu  de 

\\  iudeston  dur  p  tres  dies  vide!  i  vigil  T.  i  die  T  T  crastino  fnslationis  sci  Thome  Martiris  T 
<ld  hant  unu  mcatu  singul  sept  ibid  p  die  martis  nisi  Tc  T  qd  ipe  T  hedes  sui  hant  libam 
warrenna  T  dnico  [suo]  pp’o  eiusd  maSii  Ita  qd  nullus  i  ea  currere  possit  ad  lepore  i  ea 

fugand  ui  capiendu  sine  uolutate  T  lie  ipius  Rob  vel  hedu  suo£  sup  forisfcu[ram]  nram  x'1 

sic  pleni  cotinetr  i  carta  inde  fca.  Et  mand  est  vie  Suff  qd  fidcam  carta  legi  L  ffdcm  mcatu 
T  pdcam  warren  n  T  fer  "  tota  baliam  sua  clamar  fac  &c.  T  ut  sup. 

Close  Roll,  15  Hen.  3,  M.  3. 

The  King  has  granted  to  the  said  Robert  that  he  and  his  heirs  shall  have  a  fair  every 
year  at  his  Manor  of  Wiverdeston  lasting  for  three  days  to  wit  on  the  Vigil,  the  day  and  the 
morrow  of  the  Translation  of  St.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  and  that  they  have  a  market  every  week 
there  on  Tuesday  unless  Ac.  and  that  he  and  his  heirs  may  have  free  warren  within  his  own 
demesne  of  the  said  Manor.  So  that  no  one  within  the  same  may  hunt  to  chase  or  take  the 
hare  in  the  same  without  the  will  or  licence  of  him  Robert  or  his  heirs,  upon  forfeiture  to  Us 
of  xu  as  is  plainly  contained  in  the  charter  thereupon  made.  And  it  was  commanded  the  Sheriff 
of  Suffolk  that  he  should  cause  the  aforesaid  charter  to  be  read  and  aforesaid  market  and 
aforesaid  warren  and  fair  to  be  proclaimed  through  his  whole  bailewick. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


59 


Amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  in  the  British  Museum  is  one  of  the  48th  year  of  Henry 
the  Third  confirming  the  Market  at  Weston  to  Robert  Hovell,  presumably  the  son  of  the 
Robert  Hovell  named  in  the  above  licence :  and  another  of  the  56th  year  of  the  same  monarch 
of  the  same  tenor  relating  to  Wyverstone.  (Cart.  Harl.  58,  I.  20,  and  Cart.  Harl.  51,  G.  49.) 


JLokrt  son  of  Kobrrt  Hobrll  aitb  t\)t  frtos,  1250. 

Rob  fit  Robti  Huuel.  R  respcfh  dedit  Robto  fit  Robti  Huuel  usq5  ad  octab  sci  Hillaf 

anno  &c.  xxxv  de  debitis  in  quibj  ipe  tenetur  Aaron  fit  Abr  T  Et  le  veskj  iuctis  London.  Et 
mand  est  iustic  ad  custod  iudo^  assign  qd  sup  dcm  Robm  aut  sup  pteg  suos  nullam  districcoem 
p  debitis  illis  usq3  ad  eunde  ?minu.  fi<’]  fac.  T  ut  sa.  (Apud  Westrh  xxij  die  Oct). 

Close  Roll,  34  H.  3,  mernb  2. 

The  King  gives  respite  to  Robert'  the  son  of  Robert  Hovell  until  the  octave  of  St.  Hillary 
in  the  35th  year  of  his  reign,  for  the  payment  of  the  debts  in  which  he  is  bound  to  Aaron 
the  son  of  Abraham,  and  Elias  the  bishop  of  the  Jews,  London.  And  it  is  commanded  to  the 
justices  assigned  for  the  custody  of  the  Jews  that  no  distraint  be  made  upon  the  said  Robert 
or  his  sureties  for  these  debts  until  the  end  of  this  time. 

On  the  Close  Roll  of  the  following  year  (35  H.  3,  m.  6),  in  which  he  is  called  Robert 
Houel,  the  terms  are  given  for  his  payment  of  a  fine  of  fourscore  pounds  which  he  made  with 

Aaron  son  of  Abraham,  and  Elyas  the  Bishop  (“  Elya  Le  Euesq3  ”)•  If  was  ordered  that  he 

should  not  be  pressed  for  old  debts,  but  that  William  de  Morecuim,  his  suerty,  should  pay  forty 

pounds  on  St.  Mark’s  day  (April  25th)  in  the  36th  year  of  King  Henry,  and  forty  pounds  at 

the  following  Easter,  which  would  be  just  one  year  later. 


Hubert  Hobell.  Js>torn  of  bis  Jltarriage,  1252* 

1252. 

Norf  T  Suff.  Quia  R  audunt  qd  Hubtus  Houel  abduxit  vnam  fifajj  Henr  de  Hastings 
que  fuit  in  ctod  sua :  mand  est  vie  Norf  T  Suff  qd  ipm  Hubtih  icuncq5  inuenlit  in  batiia  sua 
cap  T  in  jlsona  R  saluo  ctod.  p.  R.  Eodem  m°  mand  est  vie  Essex. 

Close  Roll,  36  H.  3,  m.  18  Dorso. 

Norfolk  and  Suffolk.  Whereas  the  King  heard  that  Hubert  Hovell  abducted  one  of  the 
daughters  of  Henry  de  Hastings  who  was  in  his  custody :  it  is  commanded  that  the  Sheriff  of 
Norfolk  and  Suffolk  take  the  said  Hubert,  wherever  they  shall  find  him  in  their  bailywick,  and 
place  him  in  safe  custody  in  the  King’s  prison.  The  same  is  commanded  to  the  Sheriff  of  Essex. 

M.  Hubto  Houel  (xxi  die  Maij).  Quia  costat  R  qd  pdonauit  Hubto  Houel  tansgr  qui 
fecit  subthendo  a  ctodia  R  vnam  filia^  Henr  de  Hasting  T  earn  desponsando  sine  licecia  R.  T 
ide  Hubtus  p?ea  occone  (idea  fuit  vtlagar  “  min  iuste  ”  (this  is  struck  out)  R  pdonauit  eideiu 
ipam  vtlagar  in  ipm  pmulgacam.  Et  firma  pace  suam  ei  inde  cocedit.  Et  mand  est  vie  Bed 
qd  eundem  Hubtum  p  eu  (idea  vtlagar  arestatum  vt  die  libe  abire  T  in  pace  stare  quo  voluit 
pmittat.  T  nos  p.  R.  Waler. 

Close  Roll,  37  H.  3,  in.  9 

I2 


60 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Whereas  it  was  brought  to  the  notice  of  the  King  that  he  had  pardoned  Hubert  Ho  veil 
the  transgression  he  had  committed  in  taking  out  of  the  King’s  custody  one  of  the  daughters 
of  Henry  de  Hasting,  and  in  marrying  her  without  the  King’s  licence :  and  that  the  same 
Hubert  was  outlawed  (the  word  “unjustly”  is  here  struck  out)  the  King  pardoned  him  the 
outlawry  promulgated  against  him,  and  granted  him  his  firm  peace.  And  it  is  commanded 
the  Sheriff  of  Bedfordshire  who  arrested  the  said  Hubert  in  his  outlawry  that  he  permit  him 
to  go  freely  and  to  remain  in  peace  where  he  would. 

Hubert  Hovell  seems  to  have  died  in  1258.  As  will  be  seen  below,  his  widow  claimed 
dower  out  of  the  Manor  of  Horpole,  of  Robert  Hovell  senior,  probably  her  husband’s  father.  In 
1268  this  manor  was  held  by  Robert  Hovell  (apparently  Hubert’s  brother)  and  Alianora  his  wife. 


luiDolti  af  ISubrvt  IfobriU,  JFxm>,  1258, 

Hec  est  finalis  concord  fca  in  Cur  Dni  Reg  apud  Gypewicm  in  octavis  Sci  Hyttar  anno 
regni  Reg  Henf  fit  Reg  Job  is  qadrages  scdo  coram  Gilbo  de  Preston,  Rogo  de  Wycestr,  Witio 
de  Engelfeld,  Wilio  de  Cobehfn  1  Joke  de  Cokefeld,  Justic  itinantj  T  aliis  dni  Reg  fidel  tuc  ibi 
psen?.  In?  Ad  que  fuit  vx  Hubti  Houel  quer  d  Robin  Houel  seniorem  deforc  de  tcia  pte  manlu  de 
Horepol  cu  ptin  q3d  eade  Ada  clam  esse  ronabilem  dotem  suam  que  earn  contingebat  de  libo  teneinto 

qd  fuit  jidci  Hubti  q°ndam  viri  sui  in  eadem  villa.  Et  vn  plat  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Ydtt 

qd  (idea  Ada  rein  T  quietclam  de  se  jidco  Robo  rt  hered  suis  totum  Jus  1  clam  qd  huit  in 

(idea  ?cia  pte  jidci  maSii  cum  ptin  noie  dotis  inpetuu.  Et  p  hie  rem  quietclam  fine  T  concord 

idem  Robs  concessit  p  se  d  hered  suis  qd  ipi  de  ce?o  I’eddent  singut  annis  eidem  Ad  duas 
marc  argenti  ad  duos  tmos.  Sciit  mediet  ad  festum  sci  michis  rt  al?am  mediet  ad  Pasch  tota 
vite  ipius  Ad.  Et  post  decessum  ipius  Ad  idem  Robs  T  hered  sui  erunt  quieti  de  solucoe 
jidca^  dua^  marca^  p  anufn  inppet.  Et  si  ita  contingat  qd  (ides  Robs  ut  her  sui  in  soluede 
(idca^  dua^  marca^  ad  alique  jidco^  tmojj  defecit  bene  licebit  eidem  Ad  distringere  (idem  Robm 
her  suos  p  omia  catalla  sua  in  omib3  tris  rt  tenemtis  eiusdem  Robi  in  Manio  de  Wyudeston 

inuenta  vsq3  ad  plena  soluc  denar  qui  aretro  fuerint.  Et  (it'ea  idem  Robs  dedit  (idee  Ad  decern 

marc  argenti.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  41  and  42  H.  3,  No.  63. 

This  is  the  final  agreement  made  in  the  King’s  Court  at  Ipswich  in  the  octave  of 
St.  Hillary  in  the  42d  year  of  the  reign  of  King  Henry,  son  of  King  John,  before  Gilbert  de 
Preston  and  others,  Justices  Itinerant  Ac.  then  present.  Between  Ada,  who  was  (late)  the  wife 
of  Hubert  Hovel,  plaintiff,  and  Robert  Hovell,  senior,  deforcent,  of  the  third  part  of  the  Manor 

of  Horpol,  which  the  same  Ada  claims  as  her  reasonable  dower  in  the  free  holding  of  Hubert 

Hovell,  formerly  her  husband.  A  plea  was  entered  upon  between  them  in  the  same  Court.  Ada 
to  remit  all  her  right  and  claim,  and  Robert  Hovell  to  render  her  each  year  two  marks  of 
silver.  And  after  the  decease  of  Ada,  Robert  Hovell  and  his  heirs  to  be  quit  of  this  payment. 
And  if  it  so  happens  that  Robert  or  his  heir  fails  to  pay  the  two  marks,  Ada  has  licence  to 
distrain  upon  all  his  cattle,  lands  and  tenements  found  in  the  Manor  of  Wyverstone.  And 
besides  the  said  Robert  gives  the  said  Ada  ten  marks  of  silver. 


HOVELL  OF  W Y VERSION E. 


61 


loijit  Hotell,  lUrtor  of  Miibi'rstone,  1258. 

Presentations  of  the  Hundreds  within  the  County  of  Suffolk,  on  Wednesday  next  after 
the  Feast  of  St.  Michael,  in  the  54th  year  of  Henry  the  Third.  Hundred  of  Hertesmere. 
Presented  that  Gilbert  le  Poor,  steward  of  the  Earl  of  Gloucester,  soon  after  the  battle  of 
Evesham  was  seised  of  the  Manor  of  Funborh  (Finborough),  and  afterwards  transferred  it  to 
John  Hovell,  parson  of  Wiverston ;  and  had  ten  acres  of  arable  land  in  the  said  town,  worth 
yearly  half  a  mark,  and  six  acres  in  Finningham,  worth  eight  shillings  by  the  year,  and  one 
piece  of  meadow  worth  four  shillings  which  Robert  Hovell  once  held :  and  J obn  Hovell  took 
at  the  feast  of  S*  Michael  next  following  thirty  shillings  of  the  rent  of  the  same  Manor  of 
Fineberh, '  and  of  aid  ten  shillings,  and  of  perquisites  five  shillings,  and  for  wood  sold  six 
marks,  and  of  the  profits  of  a  certain  mill  two  shillings,  by  the  hands  of  William  Bidon 
and  William  Beggere :  after  which  seisin  of  said  Manor  was  delivered  into  the  King’s 
hands,  for  which  said  Robert  Hovell  who  held  said  lands  ought  to  answer  to  the  said  Lord 
the  King.  And  afterwards  the  King  gave  the  said  Manor  of  Fineberch  to  John  Giffard,  brother 
to  Osbert  Giffard,  to  hold  in  farm  of  the  Dictum  of  Kenilworth. 

Quo  Warranto  Rolls,  Suffolk,  Roll  1,  54  H.  3,  memb.  2. 


JHartin  IjofoU  anb  ^aral),  Ijis  toife,  Jfntr,  1269. 

Hec  est  final  concordia  fca  in  Cur  Dni  r!  apct  Cateshull  a  die  see  ?intatis  in  quindecim 

dies,  anno  Regn  Reg  Henric  fit  Reg  Johis  quinqag  tcio,  coram  Nicolo  de  Turri  &c.  In?  Rohm 

de  Wyuerdiston  caphm  Magrm  capelle  be  mar  de  Alwarton  quer  L  Martinu  Houel  L  Sarram 
vxm  eius  imped  de  vno  mes  trigint  acr  tie  vua  acr  pasture  sex  solid  I  octo  denar  redd  cu 

ptin  in  gua  Wrathing,  Hauerhull  I  Magna  Wrothing :  vn  plm  War  carte  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in 

eadem  Cur.  Scil  qd  jidca  Martinus  T  Sarra  recogn  [Mica  mes  tram  pastur  I  redd  cu  ptin, 

simul  cu  Libtate  hnd  Libam  fa  Id  am  in  eadem  terra,  esse  jus  ipius  Robi  T.  capell  sue  jidicte  vt 

ilia  que  ide  Robs  T  capell  sue  [idea  hnt  de  dono  ipo^  Martin  I  Sarre.  Hend  I  Tend  eis 

Rob  T  successoribus  suis  T  capell  sue  {idea  de  fidcis  Martin  T  Sarra  T  hedibus  ipius  Martini 
in  Libam  T  ppetuam  elemos  suam  ingpetim.  Reddend  inde  g  annu  Ecce  omniii  Scoj  de  gua 
Wrothing  g  pdicis  Martin  T  Sarra  T  hedibus  ipius  Martin  duodecim  den  ad  festis  annuncia- 
conis  be  mar  p  om  svicio  cons  secta  cur  T  exaccone.  Et  pdea  Martin  1  Sarra  T  hedes  ipius 
Martini  Warant  aquie?  T  defend  eid  Rob  T  successoribus  suis  T  capell  sue  {idea  ten  &c.  cont 
omes  hoies  inppetuu.  Et  jidcs  Robs  recepit  pdicos  Martin  T  Sarram  T  hed  suos  in  singl 

bnficiis  T  oronibus  que  deceto  fient  in  capella  sua  jidica  inppetuum.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  53  H.  3,  No.  43. 

By  this  fine  Martin  Hovell  and  Sarah,  his  wife,  grant  to  Robert  de  Wyverstone,  chaplain, 
Master  of  the  Chapel  of  St.  Mary  at  Alwarton,  and  to  his  successors,  a  messuage  and  thirty 
acres  of  land,  etc.,  in .  Haverhill  and  Great  and  Little  Wratting,  as  a  free  and  perpetual 
charity,  for  prayers  and  masses  to  be  said  therein  for  ever. 


62 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


JItartm  ipubrll  anti  Sara,  l)ts  Imfr,  jfhtr,  1269. 

Hec  est  final  concord  fca  in  Cur  Dili  Reg  apud  Cateshal  a  die  Sci  Joins  bapt  in  tres 
septenn  anno  regni  Regis  Henr  fit  Reg  Jofiis  qnquagesimo  tcio  ....  Inf  Martinu  Houel  quer 
T  Wifi m  de  Criketot  imped  de  vno  mesuag  sexaginta  acris  tre  duabus  acr  pati  T  vna  acra 
pasture  cu  ptn  in  Hunterston :  vnd  plm  War  carte  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadern  cur.  Scilt  qd 

pdcs  Witts  recogn  pdca  mesuag  ?ram  pati  T  pastura . esse  ius  ipius  Martini . 

bend  tenend  eidiri  Martino  T  Sarre  vx  eius  T  bed  ipius  Martini  ....  imppetuum  .  .  .  . 
Reddendo  inde  p  annu  sex  denar  ad  tres  fminos :  scilt  ad  festu  sci  Michis  duos  den,  ad 
Natale  diii  duos  denar,  T  ad  Pascfi  duos  denar,  «tc.,  &c.  Et  p  hac  recogn  renucs  quietaclam 
War  ....  fine  T  concord  ijdm  Martinus  1  Sara  dedernt  pdco  Wifto  vnu  spuaf  sor^. 

Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  53  H.  3,  No.  62. 


Strpljnt  pobrll  anti  ^lianora,  bis  rnotbrr,  1292. 

Suff.  Ass  ven  recogn  <fcc.  Johes  Pecche  fr  Reginald  Pecche,  fuit  seiz  in  dmico  suo  de 
xxx  acr  terre  etc.  in  Troston  etc.  et  si  Alianora  que  fuit  vxor  Robti  Hovel  it  Stephn  fit  Robti 
Hovel  tenent  &c.  Et  Alianora  et  Stephn  ven  <fc  Alianora  die  qd  ipa  nich  habuit  in  pde 
tenement  nisi  ad  term  vite  sue  p  cartam  cuidam  Matift  que  fuit  vx  Nidi  Pecche. 

Assize  Roll,  839,  20  E.  1,  memfe  6. 

Suffolk.  The  Assize  comes  to  recognise,  etc.  John  Pecche,  the  brother  of  Reginald  Pecche, 
was  seized  in  his  demesne  of  thirty  acres  of  arrable  land,  etc.,  in  Troston,  etc.,  and  enquired 
if  Alianora  who  had  (late)  been  the  wife  of  Robert  Hovel!,  and  Stephen,  the  son  of  Robert 
Hovell,  held  therein  ....  And  Alianora  and  Stephen  came  :  and  Alianora  said  that  she  held 
nothing  in  the  said  tenement,  except  for  the  term  of  her  life,  by  the  charter  of  a  certain 
Matilda  who  had  been  the  wife  of  Nicholas  Pecche. 


Hubert,  son  attb  beir  nf  Hubert  ^obell,  1287. 

Hundrdm  de  Blakeburn  veil  p  xxiiii  Jur.  De  nouis  cons  diet  qd  Robs  Houel  qui  obiit 
cepit  Tolu  de  quolibet  bussello  blad  veniente  ad  meat  de  Weston  conta  cons  regm.  Et  Robs 
Houel  fil  eius  T  lies  fMcam  cons  usus  est.  Io  pest  vie  qd  venir  fac  pdm  Robtm  fit  Robti. 
ptea  venit  pdcs  Robs  fil  Robti  T  die  qd  ipe  nicti  ctam  in  capcone  hi9  theoloh :  inhibitu  est  ei 
ne  dece?o  cap  hi9  thelon. 

Quo  Warranto  Roll,  15  E.  1  (1287),  No.  831. 

The  Hundred  of  Blackbourne  by  twenty  four  Jurors.  Concerning  new  customs  it  was 
said  that  Robert  Hovell  who  died  took  toll  of  whatsoever  bushells  of  corn  coming  to  the  market 
of  Weston  against  the  custom  of  the  Kingdom.  And  Robert  Hovell,  his  son  and  heir,  usas 
the  same  custom.  Therefore  it  was  commanded  the  Sheriff  that  he  should  cause  the  said  Robert 
the  son  to  appear.  Robert,  the  son  of  Robert  Hovell,  presents  himself,  and  says  that  he  has 
no  claim  in  taking  this  toll.  And  he  is  prohibited  from  taking  such  toll  in  the  future. 


HOVELL  OF  WY  VERSTONE. 


63 


Hitgb  lioMl  autr  JUiaitara,  bis  nuitbet,  1292. 

Esson  capta  apud  Catteshell  coram  Wilio  de  Gyselhm  T:  Hug  de  Cressinghm  Justic  ad 
assis  cap  assign  die  Lune  pxma  post  ffestum  sci  Petri  in  cathedra  anno  r  R.  Edwardi  vicessimo 
.  .  .  .  Adhuc  de  Ass  A  Jur  capt  apud  Cateshill. 

Suit’.  Ass  ven  vecogh  si  Witts  le  ennoyse  auncts  Gaifri  le  Ennoyse  fuit  seis  in  dnico 
suo  Arc.  de  sex  mes  centu  A:  sexaginta  et  tresdecim  acr  tre  duabj  acr  jiti  noue  acr  pastur 
septe  acr  bosci  d  dimid  d  qnqj  solid  redd  cu  gtin  in  Chedestan  d  Elmhm  die  quo  etc.  Et  si 
obijt  Ac.  Et  ei  jMcs  Galfrs  etc.  que  Hugo  Hovel  de  Wyuerestne  d  Alianora  mr  e9  tenent, 

Et  uii  quer  qd  ei  deforc  Ac.  Et  Hugo  non  ven.  Et  Alianora  ven  d  die  qd  ipa  tenet  totu 
Ac,  ad  tin  in  u  vite  sue  de  heditata  (idea  Hugoh  Hovel  p  carta  cui9dam  Robi  Hovel  fris  jidci 
Hug  cui9  ties  ipe  est  qua  (ifert  d  que  testatr  qd  ipe  Robts  dedit  (idea  ten  pdee  Alianoi’e 

tenend  ad  ?minu  vite  Ac.  Et  qd  ipe  d  hedes  ver  Ac.  Et  g  pdcam  cartam  voc  inde  ad  War 
jidcih  Hug  qui  infa  etate  est  Ac.  Assize  Roll,  Public  Record  Office,  No.  839. 

The  Assize  comes  to  ascertain  if  William  le  Ennoyse,  the  uncle  of  William  le  Ennoyse, 
was  seized  in  his  demesne  of  six  messuages,  one  hundred  and  seventy  three  acres  of  arrable 
land,  etc.,  in  Cheston  and  South  Elmham  in  the  day  in  which  he  died.  And  the  said  Geoffrey 
(answered)  that  Hugh  Hovell  of  Wyverstone  and  Alianora,  his  mother,  held  them.  And 
Alianora  Hovell  came  and  said  that  she  was  holding  them,  for  the  term  of  her  life,  of  the 
inheritance  of  the  said  Hugh  Hovell  by  the  charter  of  a  certain  Robert  Hovell,  the  brother  of 
the  said  Hugh,  whose  heir  he  is,  and  who  can  testify  that  the  said  Robert  gave  the  said 

lands,  Ac.,  to  her,  the  said  Alianora  so  long  as  she  should  live.  And  by  the  said  deed  she 

called  to  Warrant  the  said  Hugh,  who  is  under  age. 


Mi Ui am  son  of  ^ngb  <k$nts,  Jfiiti',  1315. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  facta  in  Curia  dni  Regis  apud  Westih  a  die  sancti  mchis  in 
tres  septiminas  Anno  Regni  Reg  Edwardi  filii  Edwardi  octauo  Ac.  Inf  Hugonem  Houel  rt  Agh  vxeih 
eius  quer,  g  Wittm  de  Baketon  gositum  loco  igius  Agh  ad  lucrand  vel  gdenci,  °t  Robtum  de 
Todenham  deforc  de  manerio  de  Istede  cum  gtin.  Vnde  pltm  conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in 
eadem  curia.  Scilt  qd  jidcus  Hugo  recogn  pdcfn  manerm  esse  Jus  ipius  Robti.  vt  illud  quod 
idem  Robtus  bet  de  dono  jidci  Hugonis.  Et  g  hac  recogn  fine  concordia  idem  Robtus 
concessit  jidcis  Hugonem  Agh  pdcih  maSium  cum  gtin.  Et  illud  eis  reddidit  in  eadem  curia. 
Habend  tenend  eisdem  Hugoni  T;  Agh  tota  vita  ipo£  Hugonis  Agh.  Et  post  decessum 
ipo<j  Hugonis  Agh  (idem  manerm  integre  remanebit  Wiffmo  filio  pdcT  Hugonis  tenend  de  capit 
dnis  feodi  illius  g  suicia’  que  ad  illud  maneriu  ptinent  tota  vita  ipius  Wiffmi.  Et  post  decessum 
ipius  Wiffmi  pdcih  manerm  cum  ptih  integre  remanebit  Rectis  Her  jidci  Hugonis.  Suff : 

Fine,  Suffolk,  8  E.  2,  No.  151. 

By  this  fine  Hugh  Hovell  aud  Agnes  his  wife  purchase  the  Manor  of  Istede  of  William 
de  Baketon,  for  their  several  lives,  with  remainder  to  William  Hovell,  son  of  the  said  Hugh: 
after  whose  decease  it  is  to  pass  to  the  right  heir  of  the  said  Hugh  Hovell,  the  purchaser. 
Istede,  or  Irstede  as  it  is  sometimes  written,  was  originally  enfeoffed  to  Robert  Hovell,  father 
of  Hugh  and  grandfather  of  William,  by  Margaret,  widow  of  Alan  de  Wicheresdale,  in  or  before 
the  year  1262.  ( Coram  Rege  Roll,  46  II.  8,  Harrison  MS.  xxviii,  311.) 


64 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES, 


Utr  puglj  pobell  attfr  .Slpcs  bis  krife,  ©barter,  1551. 

Sciant  praesentes  et  futuri  quod  ego  Robertus  le  Engynnour  de  Westone  concessi  dedi  et 

hac  praesenti  carta  mea  confirmavi  domino  Hugoni  Hovell  militi,  Agneti  uxori  suae,  Roberto  filio 

suo  juniori,  et  Hugoni  filio  ipsius  Hugonis  Hovel  totum  boscum  meum  in  Westone  apud  Schorte- 
grave,  jacentem  conjunctim  prope  boscum  ejusdem  Hugonis  vocatum  Schortegrave  sive  in  eodem 

bosco  majus  vel  minus  habeatur :  Habendum  et  tenendum  eisdem  Hugoni,  Agneti,  Roberto  et 
Hugoni,  et  heredibus  ipsius  Hugonis  senioris  vel  assignatis,  libere,  integre,  in  pace,  in  feodo  et 
hereditate  perpetua  de  capitalibus  dominis  feodi  illius  per  servicia  inde  debita  et  de  jure 
eonsueta.  Et  ego  praedictus  Robertus  le  Engynnour  et  heredes  mei  prsedictum  boscum  cum 
omnibus  pertinenciis  ad  ilium  qualiter  cunque  spectantibus  praedictis  Hugoni,  Agneti  Roberto  et 
Hugoni  et  heredibus  ejusdem  Hugonis  senioris  vel  assignatis  ut  proedictum  est  contra  omnes 
gentes  in  perpetuum  Warantizabimus.  In  cujus  re  testimonium  huic  cartae  sigillum  meum  apposui. 
Hiis  testibus : — Willielmo  le  Warde,  Willielmo  Page,  Johanni  de  Badelyngham,  Johanni  Asty, 
Petro  Asty,  Johanni  le  Bacstere,  Ricardo  le  Talyour  et  aliis.  Data  apud  Westone  die  Dominica 
proxima  post  festum  Sancti  Lucae  Evangiliste,  anno  regni  Regis  Edvvardi  Tertii  a  conquestu 
quinto.  (“  Date  20  Oct.  1331.  Cum  sigillo  Roberti  le  Engynnour.) 

Harleian  Charter,  Mus.  Brit.,  49  H.  2. 

Know  all  men,  present  and  to  come,  that  I  Robert  le  Engynnour  of  Weston  have  given, 
and  by  this  my  present  charter  confirmed  to  Sir  Hugh  Hovell,  Knight,  and  Agnes  his  wife, 
and  to  Robert  Hovell,  his  younger  son,  and  Hugh,  the  son  of  the  said  Sir  Hugh  Hovell,  my 
wood  in  Weston  at  Schortegrave;  to  the  said  Hugh,  Agnes,  Robert  and  Hugh  and  their  heirs 

for  ever . And  I  the  said  Robert  le  Engynnour  Warrant  the  same  to  them  against  all 

others  in  perpetuity :  In  testimony  of  which  I  append  my  seal  to  this  Charter ;  these  being 
witnesses : — William  le  Warde,  William  Page,  John  de  Badelyngham,  John  Asty,  Peter  Asty, 
John  de  Bacstere,  Richard  le  Taylour  and  others.  Given  at  Westone  on  the  Sunday  next  after 
the  feast  of  St.  Luke  in  the  fifth  year  of  the  reign  of  King  Edward  the  Third.  Date 
20th  Octr  1331.  With  the  seal  of  Robert  le  Engynnour. 


lintgljfs  JPtcs  tit  Suffolk  Ijdb  bn  tl)i>  <S)abells,  1546. 

Auxilium  feod  milit  anno  regni  Edvvardi  tercij  vicesimo  concess  in  Com  Suff  ad  primo- 
genitu  fit  R.  milit  faciens. 

Blakeburn  Hundred  ....  De  Agneta  que  fuit  vx  Hugonis  houel  ten  in  Weston  vnu 
feodi  milit  de  Comite  Mares  call  qd  Elianora  houel  tenuit  de  Com  Marescall.  xls. 

Hertisme  ....  De  Robto  houel  tenent  in  Westhorp  dimid  feod  milit  de  Edo  de  Thorp 
quod  Radus  de  Westhorp  tenuit  in  eadem  villa  de  Rogo  fit  Osbtr.  xx8. 

De  Robto  filio  Robti  Houel  ten  in  Wyuereston  duo  feoda  milit  de  Com  Suff.  quod  Witts 
de  Bromton  nup  tenuit  in  eadem  villa  de  Com  Cornub  iiii'L 

Hoxon  Hundr  ....  De  Witto  Houel  ten  in  Weybred  dimid  feod  milit  de  Com  Suff. 
quod  Radus  de  Croppyng  tenuit  de  honore  de  Eye.  xxs. 

Hundr’m  de  Thinghowe  .  .  .  .  De  Robto  Houel  T  tenen?  suis  ten  in  Risby  dimid  feod 
milit  de  Abbe  Sci  Edi  quod  Alianora  houel  quondam  tenuit  in  eadem  villa  de  Abbe  Sci  Edi. 


XXs. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVKRSTONE. 


65 


Hundrm  de  Wilford  ....  De  Wilio  le  North  erne  T  Rohto  Bakun  chr  ten  dimid  feod 
milit  in  Wycham  [Wickham  Market,  which  adjoins  Dallinghoo]  de  manef  de  Benhale  quod 
Stephus  Houel  nup  tenuit  de  honore  de  Eye.  xx8. 

Feudal  Aids,  Misc  Books  of  the  Exchequer,  Q.R.,  vol.  iii. 

Feudal  Aids  granted  in  the  county  of  Suffolk  in  the  twentieth  year  of  Edward  the 
Third  at  the  Knighting  of  the  eldest  son  of  the  King. 

Blackbourn  Hundred  ....  Agnes  who  had  been  the  wife  of  Hugh  Hovell  holds  in 
Weston  one  knight’s  fee  of  the  Earl  Marshall,  which  Alianora  Hovell  formerly  held  of  the 
Earl  Marshall :  xl8. 

Hartesmere  Hundred  ....  Robert  Hovell  holds  in  Westhorpe  half  a  knight’s  fee  of 
Edmund  de  Thorpe,  which  Ralph  de  Westhorp  held  of  Roger  Fitz  Osbert  :  xx9. 

Robert  the  son  of  Robert  Hovell  holds  in  Wyverstone  two  knight’s  fees  of  the  Earl  of 
Suffolk,  which  William  de  Bromton  lately  held  of  the  Earl  of  Cornwall :  iv1. 

Hoxon  Hundred  ....  William  Hovell  holds  in  Wey bread  half  a  knight’s  fee  of  the 
Earl  of  Suffolk,  which  Ralph  de  Croppyng  held  of  the  Honour  of  Eye: 

Hundred  of  Thinghoe  ....  Robert  Hovell  and  his  tenants  hold  in  Risby  half  a 
knight’s  fee  of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Edmund,  which  Alianora  Hovell  formerly  held  of  the  Abbey 
of  St.  Edmund  : 

Hundred  of  Wilford  .  .  .  William  le  Northerne  and  Robert  Bacon,  Chevalier,  hold  half 
a  knight’s  fee  in  Wickham  of  the  Manor  of  Benhall,  which  Stephen  Hovell  lately  held  of  the 
Honour  of  Eye  :  xx8. 


®I )t  Colors  of  Joljit  attii  irobrll,  Jfhtr,  1545. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  facta  in  cur  dni  Re$  apud  Westm  a  die  sci  Johis  Bapte  in 

quindecim  dies.  Anno  regni  Edwardi  Re^  Angt  Ac.  tcii  a  conquestu  sextodecimo  ....  In? 

Johnem  Houel  T  MatiH  filiam  AViHi  ffitz  William  de  ffynchyngfeld  quer  T  Galfridum  le 

Dormour  capellanu  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio  centum  T  quinquaginta  acris  tre  quinq3  acris  pHti 
quinq3  acris  pasture  decern  acris  bosci  T  decern  solidatas  redditus  in  Wyuerston,  Baketon  't 
Westhorp.  Vnde  pi  tin  connencSis  sum  fuit  in?  eos.  Sciit  qd  pdcus  Johes  recogh  pdca  ten  cum 
ptih  esse  Jus  pdcis  Galfridi.  Vt  ilia  que  idem  Galfrus  het  de  dono  pdci  Johis.  Et  p  hac 
recognitoe  idem  Galfrus  concessit  pdcis  Johis  t  MatiH  pdca  ten  ....  Hend  T  tenend  .  .  .  . 

tota  vita  ip5^  Johis  p  Matill.  Et  post  decessum  ipo^  Johis  et  MatiH  pdca  ten  integre 

remanebnt  Griffino  fil  eiusde  Johis  T  Her  masclis  de  corpe  suo.  Et  si  contingat  qd  idem 
Griffinus  obierit  sine  hede  de  corpe  suo  pcreato :  tuc  pdca  ten  integre  remanebnt  Elizabeth 

sororis  eiusde  Griflius.  Et  si  contingat  qd  eadem  Elizabeth  obierit  sine  hede  de  corpe  suo 

Pdca  ten  remanebnt  Margie  sorori  eiusdem  Elizabeth.  Et  si  contingat  qd  eadem  Marcia  obierit 
sine  hede  de  corpe  suo  pdca  ten  remanebnt  MatiH  sorori  eiusdem  Margie.  Et  si  contingat  qd 
eadem  MatiH  obierit  sine  hede  de  corpe  suo  tuc  remanebunt  Alicie  sorori  eiusdem  Matill  sorori 
t  hedit>3  maslis  de  corpe  suo.  Et  si  contingat  qd  eadem  Alicia  obierit  sine  hede  de  corpe  suo 
pdca  ten  integre  remanebnt  rectis  hedih3  pdci  Johis  inppih.  Suff. 

Fines,  Suffolk,  16  E.  3,  No.  25. 

K 


66 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


By  this  Fine,  made  in  the  sixteenth  year  of  King  Edward  the  Third,  between  John 
Hovell  and  Matilda  his  wife,  daughter  of  William  Fitzwilliam  of  Finchingfield,  on  the  one  hand, 
and  Geoffrey  le  Dormour  on  the  other,  the  plaintiff  entails  a  messuage  and  lands  in  Wyver- 
stone,  Bacton  and  Westhorpe  upon  himself  and  his  wife  for  their  respective  lives,  with 
remainder  to  Griffin  Hovell,  his  son  and  heir ;  and,  failing  issue  of  the  body  of  the  said 
Griffin,  upon  Elizabeth,  Margery,  Matilda  and  Alice,  sisters  of  the  said  Griffin,  in  succession, 
should  each  predecease  the  other  without  children.  Failing  lineal  descendants  of  John  Hovell 
the  estate  to  pass  to  his  right  heirs. 


Ilobcrt,  san  of  Sartljolameto  ftobdl,  Jftnt,  1358. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  Sni  Beg  apud  Ebor  in  octab  sci  michis  anno  regni 
Regis  Edwardi  tcij  a  conquestu  vndecimo  coram  Johe  de  Stonore  Ac.  Justic  't  alijs  ibi 

f?sentib5-  In?  Robtum  fit  Barthi  Houel  de  Wyuerston  quef  T  Rogerrn  de  Bavent,  Chiualer  T 
llawisiam  vxem  eius  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio  duodecim  toftis  ducentis  T  sexaginta  acris  ?re 
sexdecim  acris  fiati  viginti  T  quatuor  acris  pasture,  viginti  acris  bosci  T  sexaginta  T  septem 
solidatis  1  octo  denaratis  redditus  cum  ptin  in  Combes  T  Batesford  T  de  aduocacoe  Capelle 

|?dce  ville  de  Combes.  Vnde  pttm  connencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Scitt  qd  ffdci 
Rogus  T  Hawisia  concesserunt  j?dco  Robto  |Mca  ten  cu  ptin  T  aduocacoem  ffctcam.  Et  ilia 
ei  reddiderunt  in  eadem  Cur.  H abend  1  tenend  eidem  Robto  de  pdcis  RogVj  T  Hawisia  T 
her  ipius  Ro§i  tota  vita  ipius  Robti.  Reddendo  inde  p  annu  vna  rosam  ad  festu  Natiuitatis 

sci  Johis  Bapte  p  oi  suicio  cons  T  exaccoe  ad  fMcos  Rog’m  T  Hawisia  T  her  ipius  Ro^i 

ptinente.  Et  faciendo  inde  capit  duis  feodi  illius  T  pdcis  Ro^o  T;  Hawisia  omia  alia  luicia  que 
ad  |fdca  ten  T  aduocacoem  ptinent  tota  vita  ipius  Robti.  Et  post  decessu  ipius  Robti  pdca 
ten  T  aduocacio  pdca  integre  reutent  ad  fidci  Rogm  T  Hawisiam  rt  her  ipius  Ro^i  quiete  de 
her  jfdci  Robti  imppm.  Et  p  hac  concessione  <fcc.  idem  Robtus  dedit  jfdcis  Ro^b  T  Hawisie 
viginti  marcas  argenti.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fiues,  Suffolk,  11  and  12  Edw.  3,  Ho.  18. 

This  is  the  final  agreement  made  in  the  King’s  Court  at  York,  in  the  octave  of  St. 
Michael,  in  the  eleventh  year  of  the  reign  of  King  Edward  the  Third,  before  John  de  Stonore, 
etc.,  Justices  and  others  there  present;  between  Robert,  son  of  Bartholomew  Hovell  of  Wyver- 
stone,  qmerent,  and  Roger  de  Bavent,  Knight,  and  Hawisia  his  wife,  deforciants,  of  one 
messuage,  twelve  tofts,  two  hundred  and  sixty  acres  of  arable  land,  sixteen  acres  of  meadow, 
twenty  four  acres  of  pasture,  twenty  acres  of  wood,  and  sixty  seven  shillings  and  eight 
pence  rent  in  Combes  and  Battisford,  and  the  advowson  of  the  Chapel  of  Combes.  A  plea 
of  covenant  was  summoned  between  them  in  the  same  Court.  That  is  to  say  that  Roger 
and  Hawisia  de  Bavent  grant  the  said  holdings  and  advowson  to  Robert  Hovell.  And  they 
rendered  them  to  him  in  the  Court,  to  have  and  to  hold  of  the  said  Roger  and  Hawisia  and 

his  heirs  all  the  days  of  his  life ;  yielding  therefor  one  rose  yearly  in  lieu  of  all  services, 

customs  and  payments,  and  performing  all  services,  etc.,  which  pertain  to  the  lord  of  that  fee. 

And  after  the  decease  of  the  said  Robert  Hovell  the  said  tenements  and  advowson  to  revert 

to  Roger  and  Hawisia  de  Bavent.  And  for  this  grant,  etc.,  Robert  Hovell  hath  given  to  the  said 
Roger  and  Hawisia  twenty  marks  of  silver. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


67 


Hubert,  sun  of  fBariljolonufo  Uobrll,  Jfiue,  1348. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  cur  dm  Reg  apud  Westm  in  octal)  sci  Johis  Bapte. 
Anno  regni  Edwardi  Reg  Angt  ?cij  a  conquestu  vicesimo  pmo  (et  regni  eiusde  Reg  ffranc 
octauo)  cora  Joke  de  Stonore  &c.  Justic  ....  In?  Robtum  fit  Barthi  Houel  de  Wyuerston 
't  Alianoram  vxern  eius  quer  p  Joknam  Mannesyne  poTtum  loco  ipius  Alianorp  ad  lucrand  vel 
pdend  'x  Petrum  de  Scales  Ricm  de  Blogafce  Ricm  le  spenser  Petrum  le  clerkf  de  Euston 

deforc  de  mauio  de  Westhorp  cum  ptih.  Vnde  pitm  conuencionis  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem 
cur.  Scilt  qd  (fdci  Petrus  Ricus  Ricus  T  Petrus  recogn  {idem  manJm  esse  Jus  ipius  Robti 
Vt  illud  quod  ijdem  Robtus  T:  Alianora  bent  de  dono  fidco^  Petri  Rici  Rici  T  Petri  imppm. 
Warantizabunt  {idcis  Robto  T:  Alianore  “I  bedibj  ipius  Robti  pdcrh  maSni  cont  omes  koies 
imppm.  Et  p  hac  recognicone  ijdem  Robtus  T;  Alianora  dederunt  jidcis  Petro  Rico  T;  Petro 
centu  marcas  argenti.  Suff 

Feet  of  Fine,  Suffolk,  21  Edw.  3,  No.  6. 

By  this  Fine,  Peter  de  Scales,  Richard  de  Blogate,  Richard  le  Spenser  and  Peter  le 
Clerke  of  Euston  convey  the  manor  of  Westhorpe  to  Robert,  son  of  Bartholomew  Hovell  of 

Wyverston  and  Alianora  his  wife,  and  warrant  it  to  them  and  their  heirs  for  ever  against  all 
claimants.  And  for  this  recognisance  the  same  Robert  and  Alianora  have  given  them  one 
hundred  marks  of  silver. 

Bartholomew  Hovell  was  attorney  for  Hugh  Hovell  and  Alianora  his  mother  in  the 
nineteenth  year  of  Edward  the  First  (1291).  Quo  Warranto  Roll,  19  Ed.  1 ,  m.  6.  In  the 
same  year  he  claimed  of  William  Hovell  a  mill,  a  messuage,  and  thirty  acres  of  land  in 
Hunters  ton  as  his  right  by  a  brief  of  his  grandfather.  De  Banco  Roll,  Michaelmas,  18  and  19 
E.  1.  In  1338  Robert  Hovell,  his  son,  purchased  of  Sir  Roger  de  Bavent  and  Hawisia  his 

wife,  as  described  above,  a  messuage  with  two  hundred  and  sixty  acres  of  arable  land,  etc., 

in  Combes  and  Battisford,  together  with  the  advowson  of  the  Chapel  of  Combes,  for  the  lives 
of  the  said  Sir  Roger  and  Hawisia.  Fines,  Hill.,  11  E.  8  and  Mich.,  11  E.  8.  In  1348  this 
Robert  Hovell,  as  we  have  just  seen,  was  of  Wyverstone,  and  together  with  Alianora  his 
wife  bought  the  manor  of  Westhorpe. 


Hobcrt  Itobeil  anb  Alianora  bis  imh,  JFinr,  1349. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Reg  apud  Ebor  a  die  sci  Michis  in  quindecim 
dies  anno  regni  Reg  Edwardi  ?cij  a  conquestu  duodecimo  ....  Inter  Robtm  Houel  Y 

Alianoram  vxem  eius  quer  rt.  Matheum  de  Cantebriggf  deforc  de  quindecim  toftis,  trescentis 
acris  ?re  quindecim  acris  pati  triginta  acris  pasture  triginta  acris  bosci  ....  solidatis  redditus 
in  Westhorp,  Cotton,  ffynyngham,  Gyslyngham  T:  nethererykynghale  T;  de  Manerio  de  Westhorp 
T:  aduocacoe  ecclie  eiusdem  maSij.  Ynde  pltih  conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eodem  Cur.  Scilt 
qd  jfdcus  Robtus  recogn  j3dca  ma3m  T;  ten  't  aduocacoem  jfdcam  esse  Jus  ipius  Mathei.  Vt 
ilia  que  het  de  dono  jidci  Robti.  Et  p  hac  recogn  fine  T;  concordia  idem  Matheus  concessit 

pdcis  Robto  'X  Alianore  {idea  Ma9iu  &c.  Et  ilia  eis  reddidit  in  eadem  Cui'ia  Habend  't  tenend 
eisdem  Robto  T;  Alianore  T;  heredib^  ipius  Robti  de  capit  dnis  feodi  illius  p  sjuicia  que  ad 

(idea  manerim  ten  'P  aduocacoem  ptinent  imppm.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  11  and  12  Edw.  3,  71.  (New  number,  26). 

It2 


68 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


This  is  the  final  agreement  made  in  the  King’s  Court  at  York  in  Michaelmas  term  in 
the  twelfth  year  of  King  Edward  the  Third,  between  Robert  Hovell  and  Alianora  his  wife, 
plaintiffs,  and  Matthew  de  Cambridge,  deforciant,  of  fifteen  tofts,  three  hundred  acres  of  arable 
land,  fifteen  acres  of  meadow,  thirty  acres  of  pasture,  thirty  acres  of  woods,  and  . 
shillings  rent  charge  in  Westhorpe,  Cotton,  Finningham,  Gislingham  and  Nether  Rickinghall,  and 
of  the  Manor  of  Westhope  and  the  advowson  of  the  church  of  that  manor.  A  covenant 

was  made  between  them  in  the  same  Court.  Namely  that  Robert  Hovell  acknowledges  the  said 
manor,  lands  and  advowson  to  be  the  right  of  Matthew  de  Cambridge,  as  those  which  he  had 
by  the  gift  of  the  said  Robert.  And  by  this  recognizance,  fine  and  covenant,  Matthew  de 

Cambridge  grants  the  said  manor,  etc.,  to  Robert  Hovell  and  Alianora  his  wife,  to  have  and 
to  hold  to  them  and  to  their  heirs  for  ever  in  capite  of  the  lord  of  that  fee,  by  the  services  which 
pertain  to  the  said  manor  and  advowson,  for  ever. 

This  fine  connects  the  Hovells,  as  early  as  1349,  with  Rickinghall,  Cotton,  Gislingham,  etc., 
so  long  associated  with  their  name.  In  the  semi-apocryphal  pedigree  of  Harl.  MS.  1103  (see 
pp.  10-11),  Richard  Hovell,  Esquire  of  the  Body  to  King  Henry  the  Fifth,  circa  1420,  is 
described  as  of  Rickinghall.  Whilst  in  1584  Thomas  Hovell  ais  Smyth  of  Thelvetham  bequeathed 
lands  in  Rickinghall,  Hinderclay,  Weston,  etc.  (See  his  will,  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Frende,”  fol.  317). 


Joljn  Uofoil  antr  JHatittm,  b'is  hrife,  Jfntc,  1557. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  cur  dni  Reg  apud  WesttTi  a  die  sci  michis  in  quindecim 

dies  anno  regni  Edwardi  Reg  Angt  ?cij  a  conquestu  tricesimo  T  regni  eiusdem  Reg  ffranc 

decimo  septimo  cora  Robto  de  Thorp  Ac.  In?  Johem  Houel  T  Matifi  v2em  eius  quer  et  Robtm 
fil  Robti  Houel  T  Johem  celestre  capefim  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio  duobj  toftis  vna  carucata  Ire 
L  dimid  Ac.  in  Wyuerston  Westhorp  T  Baketon  :  vnde  pltm  conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in 
eadem  cur.  Sciit  qd  pdei  Johes  Houel  T;  Matifi  recogn  [idea  ten  cu  ptiii  esse  Jus  ipius  Robti 
vt  ilia  que  ijde  Robtus  1  Johes  celestre  hent  de  dono  pdco£  Johis  Houel  &  Matifi.  Et  p  hac 
recogn  fine  T  concordia  ijdem  Robtus  T  Johes  celestre  concesserunt  [idcis  Johi  Houel  T  Matifi 
[idea  ten  Ac.  Hend  T  Tenend  eisdem  Johi  llouel  1  Matifi  de  pdtis  Robto  T  Johe  celestre  1 
her  ipius  Robti  tota  vita  ipo^  Johis  Houel  T  Matifi;  Reddendo  inde  p  annu  vna  rosarn  ad 
festu  Natiuitatis  sci  Johis  Bapte  .  .  .  .  Et  post  decessu  ipo^  Johis  T  Matifi  [idea  ten  integre 
reutent  ad  [fdcos  Robtm  T  Johem  celestre  T  her  ipius  Robti  quiete  de  heredibj  pdcor  Johis 
Houel  A  Matifi  imppm.  Feet  of  Fine,  Suffolk,  29  and  30  Edw.  3,  No.  35. 

“This  is  the  final  agreement  made  in  the  King’s  Court  at  Westminster,  in  Trinity  term 
in  the  thirtieth  year  of  King  Edward  the  Third,  between  John  Hovell  and  Matilda  his  wife, 
quserents,  and  Robert  the  son  of  Robert  Hovell  and  John  Celestre,  chaplain,  deforciants  of  one 
messuage,  two  tofts,  and  a  carucate  and  a  half  of  land  in  Wyverston,  Westhorpe  and  Bacton. 
John  and  Matilda  acknowledge  that  they  had  given  these  lands  to  Robert  Hovell  and  John 

Celestre  as  the  light  of  the  said  Robert :  and  the  latter  re-convey  them  to  John  and 
Matilda  for  their  several  lives,  they  yielding  therefor  the  annual  rent  of  one  rose :  the  lands 
at  their  death  to  revert  to  Robert  Hovell  and  John  Celestre  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said 
Robert  for  ever.” 

It  was  doubtless  this  John  and  Matilda  Hovell  who  settled  lands  upon  their  son  and 
daughters  by  the  Fine  of  1343. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


69 


Will  of  Sir  William  be  Hxnrntljalr,  1379. 

In  Dei  nomine  Amen.  Ego  dominus  Willielmus  de  Hemphale  (Hemenhale)  miles,  sana 
mente  et  bona  in  memoria  existens  die  lune  prox  post  festum  sancti  Bartholomei  Apostoli  anno 
Dhi  mitto  CCCm0  septuagesimo  nono  condo  apud  Gesynglyngham  testamentum  meum.  Inprimis 
corhendo  animam  meam  Deo  et  beate  Marie  virgini  et  corpus  meu  ad  sepeliendum  secundum 
disposicionem  meam.  Lego  Amy  de  Bordesawe  xx1'  monete.  Lego  Roberto  Houel  et  vxori  eius 
xxu.  Lego  Radulpho  de  Hemphale  nepoti  meo  xxH.  Lego  Agneti  de  Grymmesby  liijh  xi8  viiid. 
Lego  Johanne  Houel  vnum  lectum  meum  rubeum  de  armis  meis.  Lego  Agneti  de  Grymmesby 
vnu  lectum  meum  de  Gawne  poudred  cum  rubeo  fol.  Volo  quod  omnes  alios  lectos  meos  vendant 
et  disponatur  [sic  in  MS.]  pro  anima  mea  Lego  Willielmo  Kynge  xx  marc.  Hujus  autem  testamenti 
tales  ordino  executores  meos  dominu  Thomam  Goldesmyth  personam  Ecclesie  de  Rykynghale, 
dominum  Radulphum  Gothelarde,  personam  Ecclesie  de  Cheltone,  dominum  Stephanum  Heruy  per¬ 
sonam  Ecclesie  see  Margarete  de  Brunham  et  Willielmum  Kynge  vt  disponant  et  ordinent  pro  anima 
mea  sicut  melius  viderint  expedire.  Dat  die  et  loco  supradictis.  In  cuius  rei  testimonium 

presentibus  sigillum  meum  apposui.  Probatu  apud  Norrucum  23  die  Oct  anno  Dni  supradicto. 
Et  cofnissa  est  administracio  omnrn  bonorum  executoribus.  Registrum  Haydone  in  Archiuo 
Registrarij  Norwicensis,  fol.  108a.  Harl.  MS.  10,  fo  27b. 

In  the  name  of  God,  Amen.  I  Sir  William  de  Hemphale,  Knight,  sane  in  mind  and  ‘of 
good  memory,  on  the  Monday  before  the  feast  of  St.  Bartholomew,  1379,  make  my  will  at 

Gislingham.  First,  I  commend  my  soul  to  God  and  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary  and  my  body 
to  be  buried  according  to  my  instructions.  I  leave  to  Amy  de  Bordesawe  xx1 ;  to  Agnes  de 
Grymmesby  liij1  xis  viiid  ;  to  Robert  Hovell  and  his  wife  xx11;  and  to  Ralph  de  Hemphale  my 
nephew  (or  grandson)  xx11.  I  leave  to  Joan  Hovell  one  bed  with  red  hangings,  (embroidered 
with  my  arms)  ;  to  Agnes  de  Grymmesby  one  bed  of  Gawne  powdered  with  red  leaves. 
I  will  that  all  my  other  beds  be  sold  and  (the  proceeds)  be  expended  for  my  soul.  I  leave 
twenty  marks  to  William  Kynge.  I  appoint  Sir  William  Goldsmith,  parson  of  the  church  of 
Rickinghall,  Sir  Ralph  Gothelarde,  parson  of  the  church  of  Chelton,  Sir  Stephen  Harvy,  parson 
of  the  church  of  St.  Margaret  of  Brunham  and  William  Kynge  to  be  the  executors  of  this 
will,  that  they  may  dispose  and  order  for  my  soul  as  seems  best  to  them.  Given  at  the  day 
and  place  abovenamed.  In  testimony  whereof  I  affix  my  seal.  Proved  at  Norwich  23  Octr 
1379.  Register  “Haydone”  in  the  archives  of  the  Registrar  of  Norwich:  fol.  108a. 

From  the  transcript  of  Sir  Symond  D’Ewes,  Harl.  MS.  10,  fo.  27b. 

Sir  William  de  Hemphale,  or  Hemenhale,  was  of  Gislingham,  one  of  the  villages  named 

in  the  endless  deeds  relating  to  the  Hovells.  The  chief  legatees  in  his  will  were  presumably 
relations.  Robert  Hovell  of  Wyverstone  (afterwards  Sir  Robert)  and  Joan  his  wife  were 
neighbours.  It  is  probable  that  parts  of  this  document,  which  is  confessedly  an  abstz’act,  have 
been  omitted  by  the  transcriber. 


J)ttglj  H)oteU  anD  Sir  Joljn  be  ®uiiirrnbam,  JFinr,  1383. 


Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  cur  dni  Reg  apud  Westm  a  die  sci  Martini  in  quindecim 
dies  anno  regnor^  Ricardi  Reg  Angl  T  ffranc  octauo  coram  Robto  Bealknapp  &c.  J ustic  't 


70 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


alijs  dni  Regis  fidelity  tunc  ibi  jfsentib^  In?  Hugonem  Houel  quef  et  Johem  de  Tudenham 
militem  T  Margiam  vxem  eius  deforc  de  Manlijs  de  Belynges,  Groundisburgh,  Sutton  T  Neuton 
iuxta  Gippewicum.  Ynde  plitm  conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  cuf.  Sciit  qd  jfdcus 
Jobes  recogn  $dca  maSia  esse  jus  ipius  Hugonis,  ut  ilia  que  idem  Hugo  bet  de  dono  ffdci  Jobis. 
Et  p  hac  recogn  fine  ‘I  concordia  idem  Hugo  concessit  f>dcis  Jobi  T  Margie  jfdca  maSia  cum 
ptin  et  ilia  eis  reddidit  in  eadem  cuf  Hend  T  Tenend  eisdem  Jobi  T  Margie  T  her  ipius  Jobis 
de  capit  dnis  feodi  illius  p  Suicia  que  ad  pdca  manlia  ptinent  imppm.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  8  Ric.  II,  No.  116. 

This  Fine  establishes  the  title  of  Sir  John  de  Tuddenham  and  Margery  his  wife  to  the 
Manors  of  Bealings,  Grundisburgh,  Sutton  and  Newton  near  Ipswich.  By  a  legal  fiction  the 
Tuddenhams  acknowledge  them  to  be  the  right  of  their  kinsman,  Hugh  Hovell.  And  in 
consideration  of  this  acknowledgment  Hugh  Hovell  grants  them  to  the  Tuddenhams  and  to  their 
heirs  for  ever. 


loan,  Initio  in  of  S>xr  Sobort  Uobd,  JFxnr,  1387. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Reg  apud  Westrh  a  die  see  Trinitatis  in 

quindecim  dies  anno  regno^  Ricardi  Reg  Angl  T  ffranc  decimo  coram  Robto  Bealknapp  &c. 
Justic  et  postea  in  Octabis  sci  Micbis  anno  regno^  eiusdem  Reg  Ricardi  vndecimo  .  .  .  coram 
eisdem  Justic  T  alijs  ....  In?  Jobnam  que  fuit  vx  RoBti  Houel  chiualere  quel  .  .  .  .  et 
Thomam  Munchesy  deforc  de  Mauio  de  Weston  cum  ptin  quod  Hugo  Houel  tenet  ad  ?nu  vite. 
Vnde  pltm  conuencois  surn  fuit  inter  eos  in  eadem  cuf.  Sciit  qd  jfdcus  Thomas  concessit  p  se 
T  hef  suis  qd  ffdcm  manlrn  cum  ptin  quod  jfdcus  Hugo  ?enuit  ad  tnu  vite  de  heditate  jfdci 
Thome  die  quo  hec  concordia  fca  fuit  (et  quod  post  decessum  ipius  Hugonis  ad  pdern  Thoma 
T:  hef  suos  debuit  reuti.)  post  decessum  ipius  Hugonis  integre  remaneat  pdee  Jobne,  Tenend  de 
ffdco  Thoma  t  hef  suis  tota  vita  ipius  Jobne ;  Reddendo  inde  p  annu  vnam  rosam  ad  festum 
Natiuitatis  sci  Jobis  Bapte  p  oibj  suiciis  consuetudine  T  exaccoe  ad  pdcin  Thomam  1  hef  suos 
ptinente  ....  tota  vita  ipius  Jobne ;  Et  post  decessum  ipius  Johne  (Idem  manlm  integre 

reutef  ad  jidcin  Thomam  quiete  de  hef  j^dee  ,!obne;  Tenend  de  capit  dnis  feodi  illius  imppm 
Et  p.  hac  concessione  fine  T;  concordia  eadem  Jobna  dedit  pdeo  Thome  centum  marcas  argenti. 

Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suff,  10  and  11  Ric.  2,  No.  161. 

“  This  is  the  final  agreement  made  in  the  King’s  Court  at  Westminster,  in  the  tenth 
and  eleventh  years  of  the  reign  of  Richard  the  Second,  between  Johanna  who  was  late  the 
wife  of  Robert  Hovell,  Chevalier,  plaintiff,  and  Thomas  Munchensy,  deforcient  of  the  manor  of 
Weston,  which  Hugh  Hovell  is  holding  for  the  term  of  his  life.  Namely  that  Thomas 
Munchensy  grants  that  this  manor  which  Hugh  Hovell  holds  of  him  (and  which  after  the 
death  of  the  said  Hugh  ought  to  revert  to  him)  shall  after  the  said  Hugh’s  decease  wholly 
revert  to  the  said  Johanna ;  she  rendering  yearly  one  rose  at  the  feast  of  the  Nativity  of 

St.  -lohn  Baptist  in  lieu  of  all  services  and  customary  exactions:  with  remainder,  after  the 

death  of  the  said  Johanna,  to  the  said  Thomas  Munchensy  and  his  heirs.  For  this  grant  and 
agreement  Johanna  Hovell  hath  given  to  Thomas  Munchensy  one  hundred  marks  of  silver.” 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


71 


Con  fog  ante  of  Horpole  Jitanor,  1588. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cuf  dni  Reg  apud  Westrn  a  die  sci  Mickis  in  quindecim 
dies  anno  regnnrs  Ricardi  Reg  Angf  T  ffranc  vndecimo  coram  Rob  to  Bealknapp,  Jobe  Holt  &c. 
Justic  T  alijs  dni  Reg  fidelib^  tunc  ibi  psentib^.  Inf  Jofiem  de  Sutton  Chiualer  T  Thoma 
Munchensy  quef  et  Jobem  Crulle  T  Alicia  vxem  eius  deforc  de  Manlio  de  Horpol  cum  ptin : 
vnde  plitm  conuencois  sum  fuit  inf  eos  in  eadem  Cuf.  Scitt  qd  jiclci  Johes  Crulle  T  Alicia 
concesserunt  pdcis  Jobi  de  Sutton  T  Thome  fidcm  manlrn  cum  ptin  et  remiserunt  T  quietaclam 
quicquid  buerunt  in  ffdco  maSio  ad  ?nu  vite  ipius  Alicie  &c.  T;  lief  ipius  Thome  imppm.  Et 
p  hac  concessione  ijdem  Jobes  de  Sutton  T  Thomas  dederunt  pdcis  Joki  Crulle  T  Alicie  centu 
libras  sflingo^.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  10  and  11  Ric.  2,  No.  165. 

By  this  fine  of  the  eleventh  year  of  Richard  the  Second,  John  Crulle  and  Alice  his  wife 
grant  all  that  they  have  in  the  manor  of  Horpole  to  Sir  John  de  Sutton  and  Thomas  Munchensy, 
during  the  life  of  the  said  Alice— to  hold  to  the  plaintiffs  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Thomas 
for  ever. 


■* 


(Eonbryattcs  of  tlje  Jftanor  of  IKrjtmstane,  1390. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cuf  dni  Regis  apud  Westm  in  octabis  sci  Johis  Bapte 
anno  regnorj  Ricardi  Reg  Angi  T  ffranf  ?cio  decimo  ....  In?  Thoma  Monchensy  et  Edm 
Lakynghethe  quef  et  Jobem  Crulle  T  Aliciam  vx*em  eius  deforc  de  Matiio  de  Wyuerston.  Plitm 
conuencois  sum  fuit  int  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Jobes  T  Alicia  concesserunt  pjdcis  Thome  T  Edo 
pldcm  manDiu  cum  ptin  et  remiserunt  T  quietaclarh  quicquid  buerunt  in  pJdco  manlio  ad  ?nu  vite 
ipius  Alicie  pdcis  Thome  T  Edo  T  hef  ipius  Thome  imppm.  Et  p  hac  concessione  &c.  ijdem 
Thomas  T  Edus  concesserunt  p  se  d  hef  ipius  Thome  qd  ipi  reddent  singulis  annis  pdcis  Johi 
T  Alicie  tota  vita  ipius  Alicie  decern  marcas  argenti.  Et  si  contingat  qd  ijdem  Thomas  T  Edus 
in  solucoe  pdcor^  denarior^  defecint  bene  liceat  pdcis  Johis  “T  Alicie  distrin^e  pdcos  Thoma  T 
Ediri  in  pdco  man-io  p  ofhia  bona  T  catalla  in  eodem  inuenta.  Et  post  decessum  ipius  Alicie 
pdci  Thomas  T  Edus  T  hef  ipius  Thomse  erunt  quieti  de  solucoe  pdcor^  denariopt  p  annu  imppm. 

Suff. 

Suffolk  Fines,  12-14  Richard  II,  No.  10. 

Fine  in  the  octave  of  St.  John  the  Baptist,  13  Richard  II,  between  Thomas  Monchensy 
and  Edmund  Lakyngheath.  plaintiffs,  and  John  Crulle  and  Alice  his  wife,  defendants,  of  the 
Manor  of  Wyverstone.  A  plea  of  covenant  was  entered  between  them  and  the  defendants  grant 
to  Monchensy  and  Lakyngheath  and  remise  and  quitclaim  all  they  have  in  the  said  manors  for 
the  term  of  the  life  of  the  said  Alice,  they  paying  to  the  defendants  ten  marks  in  silver 
yearly,  with  right  of  distraint  for  arrears ;  and  after  the  death  of  the  said  Alice  said  annuity 
to  belong  to  Thomas  Munchensy  and  his  heirs. 


72 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Httglj,  sort  of  %ix  lingl)  #oboll,  Charter,  1396. 

Sciant  psentes  T  futr  qd  ego  Robtus  Danby  de  Weston  Houel  dedi  concessi  T  hac 

pfsenta  carta  mea  confirmaris  Hugoni  Houel  filio  Hugonis  Houel  militf,  Galfrid  psone  ecclie  de 
Weston  jMca,  Wiftmo  lampet  de  Thorndon  T  Robto  Spetilman  de  ead  hered  T  assignatf  eor 
vnam  peciam  terre  arrabil  jacentem  in  Weston  in  campo  vocato  Jenoures  bradewong  inter  terram 
ma3ij  de  Weston  ex  vna  pte  L  abutan  sup  terram  vocatam  le  Halle  Bradewong  L  sup  terram 
quond  Henric  Hacketre  T  continet  decern  acras  siue  sit  plus  siue  mi3  Habend  T  tenend 

pHcam  peciam  terre  cum  suis  ptiii  p>fatis  Hugoni,  Galfrid,  Wittmo  T  Robto  Spetilman  tiered  T 
assignatf  imppm  de  capital  dnis  feod  illius  per  suic  inde  debita  %  de  iuf  consueta.  Et  ego 
pdcus  Robtus  Danby  T  hered  mei  pdcam  peciam  terre  cum  suis  ptin  pfatf  Hugoni  Galfrid 
WiRmo  T  Robto  Spelman  hered  T  assignatf  eor  cont  orhes  gentes  AVarantizabirn  imppm.  In 
cui>;)  rei  testimon  huic  p'senti  carte  sigiftm  meu  apposui.  Hijs  testibj  Thom  Asty,  WiRmo 

Betoun,  Jotine  Man,  Jo  tine  Haketre,  Steptio  Howys  V  alijs  apd  Weston  pdca  die  Sabbti  px 

ante  fm  sci  Andr  apli  anno  regni  Regf  Ricard  secdi  a  conquest,  decimo  nono. 

Harleian  Charter,  49  C.  5. 

“  Know  all  men,  present  and  to  come,  that  I,  Robert  Danby  of  Weston  Hovell,  have 

given,  and  by  this  my  present  charter  confirmed,  to  Hugh  Hovell,  son  of  Hugh  Hovell,  Knight, 

Geoffrey  parson  of  the  church  of  Weston  aforesaid,  AVilliam  Lampet  of  Thorndon  and  Robert 
Spetilman  of  the  same,  one  piece  of  arrable  land  lying  in  Weston,  in  the  field  called  Jenour’s 
Bradewong,  between  the  lands  of  the  manor  of  Weston  on  the  one  part  and  abuting  upon  land 
called  the  Hall  Bradewong  and  upon  land  formerly  Henry  Hacktree’s,  and  containing  ten  acres, 
more  or-  less :  To  have  and  to  hold  to  the  same  Hugh,  Geoffrey,  William  and  Robert,  their 
heirs  and  assignes  for  ever,  <tc.  And  I  the  said  Robert  Danby  and  my  heirs  Warrant  the 
said  piece  of  land  to  the  said  Hugh,  Geoffrey,  AVilliam  and  Robert  against  all  persons  for  ever. 
In  testimony  of  which  I  append  my  seal  to  the  present  charter.  These  being  witnesses : — 

Thomas  Asty,  William  Betoun,  John  May,  John  Haktree,  Stephen  Howys  and  others  :  at 

Weston  aforesaid  on  the  Saturday  next  before  the  feast  of  St.  Andrew  in  the  nineteenth  year 
of  King  Richard  the  Second.” 


loan  bt  EattUs&nt,  Itrife  of  Hotart  ipofoll,  1363 — 1413. 

“In  the  36th  year  of  Edward  III.  (1363)  John,  son  of  Sir  John  Rattlesden,  was  lord 
of  this  manor  (Wood  Dalling,  co.  Norfolk),  and  of  Fakenham  Aspes  in  Suffolk  ;  Joan  was  found 
to  be  his  daughter  and  h£ir,  married  to  Robert  Hovell. 

In  the  17th  of  Richard  II.  (1394)  it  appears  that  Robert  Monceux,  and  Joan  his  wife, 
held  (for  her  life)  this  lordship,  and  those  of  Bradfield  St.  Clere  and  Weston  Mercate  in  Suffolk  ; 
this  Joan  was  the  daughter  and  heir  of  Rattlesden,  before  mentioned  ;  and  in  the  3d  of 
Henry  IV.  Robert  Monceaux  held  3  quarters  of  a  fee  here  (Wood  Dalling).  This  Robert,  by 
his  will,  dated  April  20,  1415,  was  then  lord,  and  married  2  wives  ;  Joan,  relict  of  Robert 
Hovell,  and  Margaret,  who  survived  him.  Robert  his  son  succeeded  him.” 

Blomefields  Norfolk,  viii.,  318. 


JIOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


73 


By  his  Inquisition  post  mortem  taken  at  Dalling  in  Norfolk  in  the  36th  year  of 
King  Edward  the  Third  (Esch.  36  Edw.  III.,  Part  2,  No.  25)  it  was  found  that  John,  the  son 
of  John  de  Ratelesden,  chevalier,  on  the  day  on  which  he  died,  held  the  Manor  of  Dallinge  of 
Roger  Elmbruge,  as  of  the  Manor  of  Fakenham  Aspes  in  Suffolk,  by  the  service  of  one  Knight’s 
fee,  together  with  a  windmill  and  lands  etc.  in  Dalling  and  Geystwick  of  the  Prior  of  Dynham, 
the  Prior  of  Ely  and  others.  John  de  Ratelesden  died  on  the  Saturday  next  before  the  feast 
of  St.  Nicholas  in  the  SS4'1  year  of  the  said  King,  and  Robert  Hovell  his  cousin,  the  son  of 
Robert  Hovel  who  married  Joan  de  Ratelesden,  his  aunt,  was  his  heir  and  next  of  kin,  and 
was  aged  three  quarters  of  a  year. 


iPfingm,  Dobell  of  OTybcnstonr,  from  tfje 

Mo\ * 

Ric  :  Hovel  de  Wiverston  temp e  H.  1. 

TT 

( - 1 

Ric :  Hovel  de  Wiverston  temp *  Regis  Stepki. 


Robt.  Hovel  in  Letheringham  Ledger. 

W 

i - 1 

Robt.  Hovel  in  Blib  :  Ledger. 

i - 1 

Sir  Jo  :  Hovel.=f= 

I 

i - 1 

Robert-  Hovel  vel  Hoivel,  Knt.  of  the  Sh :  20  E.  3. :  29  E.  3. 

i - 1 

Sir  Hugh  Hovel ,  16  Ric  :  2. 

They  gave  names  to  the  Manors  in  Wiverston ,  Weybread  and  Cheston.  Sir  Hugo  Hovel  tempe  E.  1 ,  Dnus. 
de  W.,  Sa.  a  cross  Or.  Sir  Stephen  Hovel  his  son,  label  of  3  Arg. 


The  manuscript  “quondam  penes  Sir  Jno  Blois,”  so  frequently  quoted  by  Jermyn  and  Davy  (Add.  MS. 
8210,  etc.)  was  evidently  that  bequeathed  by  William  Blois,  Esqr.,  of  Grundisburgh  (Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.)  to 
Sir  William  Blois,  his  son,  in  1672.  Its  genealogical  value  is  very  great,  and  its  very  mistakes,  as  a  rule, 
are  but  misplaced  facts,  and  serve  as  guides  to  future  research.  There  is  reason  to  believe  that  the  pedigree 
above  given  represents  in  a  great  measure  the  true  ancestry  of  the  early  Hovells  of  Wyverstone. 

The  pedigree  on  the  next  page  from  the  Harrison  MSS.  in  the  Public  Record  Office,  like  most  com¬ 
pilations  of  the  kind  relating  to  persons  who  were  living  in  the  twelfth,  thirteenth,  and  fourteenth  centuries, 
is  founded  upon  imperfect  evidence,  and  many  of  its  statements  are  doubtful.  It  has  the  merit,  however,  qf 
arranging  a  number  of  facts,  tentatively,  in  a  tabular  form,  and  of  preparing  the  way  for  one  more  reliable 
and  exact.  It  forms  the  basis  of  the  “  Reconstructed  Pedigree  of  the  Hovells  of  Wyverstone,”  which  follows 
it,  in  which  the  descents  are  connected  by  dotted  lines  only,  and  unproven  marriages,  even  if  probable,  are 
omitted ;  whilst  the  identity  of  contemporary  Hovells  of  the  same  name  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  insufficiently 
established,  is  no  longer  assumed. 

There  is  no  known  evidence  as  to  the  William  Hovell  of  Wyverstone  in  the  time  of  William  the 
Conqueror,  named  in  the  Pedigree  from  the  Harrison  MSS.  Robert  Hovell,  the  supposed  son  of  Adam  Hovell 
Hovell  of  Wyverstone,  erroneously  described  therein  as  of  Attleborough  in  Norfolk,  was  of  Attlebridge  in  that 
country.  Harrison  MS.  xxviii,  303. 


L 


74 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


$?obrll  iprtjuircr,  from  rtjc  Ramson 

.  .  .  Hovell,  a  free  tenant  holding  lands  in  Wiverston,  co.  Suffolk,  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmund' s,  Bury 
in  the  time  of  King  Edward  the  Confessor.  Witness  to  a  charter  S.D.  of  Abbot  Leofstan,  before  1065.  | 

r~ - - - - - - - ; - - - - - ' 

William  Hovell  held  lands  in  Wyverston  of  Baldwin,  Abbot  of  St.  Edmund’s,  in  the  time  of  William  the  Conqueror, =p 
which  his  father  formerly  held  of  Abbot  Leofstan  in  the  time  of  King  Ed  ward. 


Radulphus  fil.  William  Hovell,  seized  of  the  Manor  of  Hovell  in  Weybred,  co.  Suffolk  ;  held- 
half  one  Knight’s  fee  in  Wyverston  of  the  Abbot  of  St.  Edmund’s,  Bury,  tempore  Hen.  I. 


Sir  William  Hovell,  Knt.,  Lord  of  Wyverston  in  the  time  of  King  Stephen  &  Hen.  II :  was  one  of  the  four  Knights  sent  into  the  County  of=p 
Norfolk  to  ascertain  if  Ralph  fil.  Thurstan  was  sick,  as  he  had  pleaded,  1199  :  ob.  3°  John. 


Sir  Ralph  Hovell,  Knt.  In  13  Hen.  2,  being  the  King’s  Falconer, ^Alicia,  a,  widow  13  H.  3  : 


he  paid  81  3s  44  for  birds  foi'  the  King’s  use.  Went  into  the  Holy 
Land  with  Richard  Coeur  de  Leon  ff  was  present  at  the  battle  of 
Ascalon,  1191.  Lord  of  Wyverston  3  John.  Ob.  1229,  13  H.  3  : 
seized  of  Manors  in  Norfolk  ff  Suffolk. 


claimed  dower  against 
divers  persons  in  lands  in 
Wyverston  demised  by 
her  late  husband. 


Adam  Hovell  of  Wyverston,  to  whom  in  the- 
time  of  King  Henry  II,  Herbert  de  Giseling- 
ham  demised  land'which  Robert  de  Giseling- 
ham  claimed,  4  John.  He  claimed  common  of 
pasture  in  Hunterston,  13  Hen.  3. 

See  Pedigree  A. 


Sir  Robert  Hovell,  Knt.,  Lord  of  Wiverston  at  his  father’s  death,  13  Hen.  3,= p 
when  he  had  the  King’s  licences  to  hunt  foxes  Iff  hares  in  the  forest  of  Essex. 
By  the  King’s  charter,  15  Hen.  3,  had  grant  of  free  Warren  in  Wyverston 
with  a  fair  there  yearly.  Ob.  24  Hen.  3 :  seized  of  the  Manors  of  Wiverston 
Iff  Weston,  co.  Suff. 


Hugh  Hovell  claimed  the  right  off 
presentation  to  the  church  of  Tu- 
clenham  in  right  of  his  ward,  the 
son  and  heir  of  Peter  the  Con¬ 
stable,  25  Hen.  3. 


Gilbert  fil  Ralph  Hovell 
desseised  Adam  Hovill 
of  Common  of  pasture 
in  Hunterston,  33  Hen. 
3,  1249. 


L 


A 


Sir  Robert  Hovell,  Knt.,  Lord  of  Wiverston,  ffc.,  mortgaged=f=Margaret,  da.  of 
his  lands  to  the  Jews  and  went  to  the  Holy  Land  34  Hen.  3. 

Alicia,  who  ivas  the  wife  of  William  de  Briseworth,  35  Hen.  3, 
claimed  dower  of  his  lands  in  Wiverston.  He  claimed  tene¬ 
ments  in  Chediston  conjointly  with  Margaret  his  wife,  37  Hen.  3. 

Was  commonly  called  Sir  Robert  Hovell  the  Crusader.  Ob.  54 
Hen.  3  1270. 


William  de  Brise¬ 
worth  claimed, 
with  her  husband, 
tenement  in  Che¬ 
diston,  co.  Suff., 
37  Hen.  3. 


Hubert  Hovell,  to— Ada,  da.  ff  coh. 
ivhom  his  father  of  Sir  Henry 
gave  the  Manor  of  de  Hastings  : 
Horpole  ;  abduct-  claimed  dowel¬ 
ed  the  daughter  of  in  Horpole 
Henry  de  Hast-  against  Robert 
ings,  a  ward  of  Hovell,  42  Hen. 
the  King.  3. 


Sir  Robert  Hovell,  Knt.,  called  “  Junior”  42- 
H.  3,  was  in  the  Welsh  and  Scottish  wars 
temp.  Hen.  3  ff  Ed.  1 :  sold  lands  in  Wyk- 
ham  juxta  Letheringham,  9  Ed.  1  :  con¬ 
jointly  with  his  wife  gave  the  Manor  of  Wy¬ 
verston  to  William  de  Burnton  for  the  term 
of  her  life,  at  the  annual  rent  of  a  rose  : 
enfeoffed  the  said  William  the  manor  of 
Weston  in  trust  as  dower  for  said  Alianora  : 
sold  lands  in  Dysety  (?) ,  co.  Suff.,  12  Ed.  1 : 
ob.  14  Ed.  1. 


-Alianora,  dan. 
of  William  de 
Burnton  :  was 
a  widow  liv¬ 
ing  19  Ed.  1. 


John  Hovell  of  Wyverston,  seised=f= Agnes,  had 


of  lands  in  Docking,  co.  Norfolk 
24  Ed.  1 :  sold  conjointly  with 
Agnes  his  wife,  lands  in  Wiver¬ 
ston  to  William  de  Burnton : 
died  before  9  E.  2,  leaving  issue. 


lands 
her 
right, 
E.  1. 


m 

own 

24 


Bartholomew  Ho-- 
veil  of  Wiverston : 
Attorney  for  Hugh 
Hovell  ff  Alian¬ 
ora,  his  mother, 
19  Ed.  1. 


John  Hovell, 
parson  of  the 
church  of 
Wyverston, 
54  H.  3  :  ha  d 
lands  inFin- 
ingham  for 
life. 

-Alicia,  dau. 
of  Sir  Roger 
de  Bavent, 
Knt.,  ff 
Hawisia, 
his  wife. 


A 


Robert,  fil.  Bartholomew  Hovell  of=p Alianora,  joined 


Wiverston,  to  whom  Sir  Roger  de 
Bavent  ff  Haivisia,  his  wife,  gave 
lands  in  Combes  and  Battisford, 
11  Echo.  3  :  living  21  Edw.  3. 


with  her  husband 
in  a  fine  of  the 
Manor  of  Wes- 
thorpe,21  Edw.  3. 


Nicholas,  2d  son,  Iff  Peter,  3d  son  ; 
returned  to  the  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  as 
men  at  arms  summoned  to  the 
Great  Council  at  Westminster,  17 
Edw.  2. 


A 


Stephen  Hovell  of  Wyverston,  2- 
son,was  at  the  battle  of  Borogli- 
brigg,  and  was  pardoned  12 
Edw.  2  :  held  land  at  Wickham 
for  half  a  Knight’s  fee  :  entail¬ 
ed  the  Manor  of  Horpole : 
bore  for  his  Arms,  Sable,  a 
cross  Or  and  label  Argent :  liv¬ 
ing  20  Edw.  3. 


-Matilda,  dau. 
of  John  de 
Westwick,  co. 
Suff. :  living 
12  Edw.  3  ff 
20  Edw.  3  at 
the  entail  of 
the  Manor  of 
Horpole. 


Johanna,  d.  ff- 
h.  of  William 
de  Pensthorpe, 
Lord  of  Wes- 
thorpe,  co. 
Suff.,  before  19 
Ed.  1 :  living 
5  E.2 :  1  wife. 


T 


-Sir  Hugh  Hovell,  heir  to  his  brother^pAgnes,  da.of 


A 


Robert,  20  Ed.  1 :  was  in  the  Scottish 
wars  temp.  Ed.  1  ff  Ed.  2 :  in  the  wars 
of  Scotland  ff  France  temp.  Ed.  3 :  sole 
lord  of  Wyverston  Iff  Weston,  ff  joint 
lord  af  Chediston  9  Ed.  2  :  was  sum¬ 
moned  to  the  great  Council  at  TFesf- 
minster  17  Ed.  2:  styled  Chevalier 
5  Ed.  3  :  ob.  20  Ed.  3. 


A 

See  Pedigree  B. 


Sir  Robert 
de  Tuden- 
ham,  8  E.  2 : 
the  Manor 
of  Weston  a  s 
her  dower  19 
E.  2  :  held 
Knt.’ s  fee  20 
Ed.  2. 


L 


- 1 — I 

Sir  Robert  Hovell,  Lord 
of  Wiverston  ff  Weston: 
defendant  in  plea  of 
land,  14  Edw.  1  :  ob. 
20  Edw.  1  :  s.p. 

John  Hovell  of  Wyvers¬ 
ton  :  one  of  the  manu- 
captors  of  Sir  Robert  de 
Aspale,  Knt.  of  the 
shire  for  Suff.  19  Edw.  2. 


William  Hovell,  to  whom  his  father  gave  Istede  Manor,  co. 
Suff.,  for  life,  19  E.  2  :  held  the  Manor  of  Weybred  for  half 
a  Knight’s  fee,  20  E.  3. 


Robert  Hovell,  Junior,  4th  son :  Hugh  Hovell,  5  son  :  to  Hugh  Hovell , 
whom  their  father  gave  the  Manors  of  Horpole  ff  Westhorpe,  5  son. 

19  E.  2,  after  the  death  of  their  mother. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


75 


ffrlrigrrc  3.  ?i)obrIl  of  hunterston. 


Adam  Hovell  of  Wyverston,  to  whom,  in  the  time  of  King  Henry  2,  Herbert  fil  William  de  Giselingliam,  in  the- 
County  of  Suffolk,  demised  40  acres  of  land  in  Wyverston  for  a  term  of  years,  which  Robert  de  Giselingham 
claimed  against  him  4  John.  In  13  Hen.  3  he  claimed  and  recovered  common  of  pasture  in  Hunterston,  co. 
Suff.  TFns  Juryman  same  year  in  a  plea  of  land  Coram  Rege. 


William  Hovell,  4  John,  of  Bakeston, =\ p 
23  Hen.  3,  and  styled  of  Hunterston, 
co.  Suffolk,  being  seised  of  lands  there : 
ob.  30  Hen.  3,  1246. 


Adam  Hovell  of  Wiverston,  Po’  lo’  suo  for  his  father,  4  John,  in  a  plea  of  land :  Po’  lo’  for = 
Hubert  de  Monte  Camiso  in  a  plea  of  land,  12  John  :  was  a  Juryman,  co.  Norfolk,  33  Hen.  3 : 
claimed  common  of  pasture  in  Hunterston  against  Gilbert  fil  Ralph  of  which  said  Gilbert  had 
deseised  him  the  same  year. 


Martin  Hovell  fil  William  Hovell  of  Hunterston  purchased=f=Sarah, 
lands  in  Hunterston  8f  Bakeston,  42  50  H.  3  :  gave  lands  living 

in  Parva  Wratting,  Haverhill  and  Magna  W ratting  to  50 
Robert  de  Wiverston,  Master  of  the  Chapel  of  the  Virgin  Hen. 
Mary  in  Alveston,  his  successors  in  pure  and  perpetual  3. 
alms,  57  Hen.  3.  ^ 


William  Hovell 
of  Bakeston  tvas 
fined  for  false 
presentation,  24 
H.  3. 


Robert  Hovell  of  Atleburgh,  co.  Nor-=f=Agnes,  d.  8/’ 
folic,  against  whom  Robert  de  Newton  coh.  of  ..  . 

Emma  his  wife  claimed  one  half  of  de  Atle- 
certain  lands  in  Atleburgh,  Tunham  burgh  :  liv- 
Tunstall,  co.  Norfolk,  in  right  of  ing  24  H.  3. 
said  Emma,  34  Hen.  3. 


iJetngm  35.  ?X?ot>rll  of  OTgberstone. 


Johanna,  d.  h.  of  William'- 
de  Pensthorpe,  Lord  of  Wes- 
thorpe,  co.  Suff.,  before  19 
Ed.  1 ;  living  5  E.  2 :  1 
wife. 


=Sir  Hugh  Hovell,  heir  to  his  brother  Robert,  20  Ed.  1  :  was  in  the  Scottish^- Agnes,  da.  of  Sir  Robert 


wars  temp.  Ed.  1  Ed.  2  :  in  the  wars  of  Scotland  8f  France  temp.  Ed  3 ; 
sole  lord  of  Wiverston  Weston  8f  joint  lord  of  Chediston,  9  Ed.  2 ; 
was  summoned  to  the  great  Council  at  Westminster,  17  Ed,  2  :  styled 
Chevalier  5  Ed.  3  :  ob.  20  Ed.  3. 


de  Tudenham,  8  E.  2 : 
the  Manor  of  Weston  as 
her  dower,  19  E.  2 :  held 
Knt.’s  fee  there,  20  E.  2. 


Sir  Robert  Hovell  of  Johanna,  da.  of  John  Hovell,  23  son  of  Wiver-=f=Matilda,dau. 


Chediston,  co.  Suff., 
to  whom  Roger  Love- 
day  gave  lands  in 
South  Elmham  8f 
Chediston,  5  E.  3 : 
was  in  the  Scottish  8f 
French  wars  :  called 
“Senior,”  6  E.  3 : 
ob.  v.p. 


Roger  Loveday 
of  S.  Elmham, 
co.  Stiff.:  a  widow 
10  R.  2. 


ston,  settled  his  lands  by  fine, 
16  E.  3  :  to  Robert  fil.  Robert 
Hovell,  his  nephew,  20  E.  3, 
gave  lands  in  Wyverston  for 
his  life  time. 


of  William 
Fitz  William 
of  Finching- 
field. 


William  Hovell  to  whom 
his  father  gave  Istede 
Manor  for  life,  19  Ed.  2  : 
held  tne  Manor  of  Wey- 
bred  for  half  a  Knight’s 
fee,  20  E.  3. 


— n 

Robert  Hovell,  4"‘  son : 
Hugh  Hovell,  5th  son,  19 
Ed.  2  :  to  have  the  Manors 
of  Horpole  fy’  Westhorpe 
after  the  death  of  their 
mother. 


Griffin  Hovell,  son  8f 
h. :  living  16  Ed.  3. 


1.  Elizabeth,  living 
16  Ed.  3,  1343. 


2.  Margery,  living 
16  Ed.  3;  1343. 


3.  Matilda,  living 
16  Ed.  3,  1643. 


4.  Alicia,  living 
16  Ed.  3. 


Sir  Robert  Hovell,  Knt.,  called  Robert  fil.  Robt.  Hovell,  held=^ Alicia  ,  da.  of  Sir  John  de  Tuden- 


3  Knt. s’  fees  in  Wiverseon  8f  half  one  Knt.’s  fee  in  Westhorpe, 
20  Ed.  3 ;  gave  lands  in  Wiverston  to  John  Hovell  his  uncle 
for  his  lifetime,  30  E.  3  :  had  a  charter  of  free  warren  in 
Wiverston  Weston,  48  Ed.  3 :  ob.  8  Ric.  2. 


ham,  Knt. :  had  the  Manor  of 
Wiverston  in  dower,  which  she 
sold  to  Thomas  Muncheney  for  an 
annuity,  11  Ric.  2. 


-John  Crulle,  2 
husb.,  joined  in 
the  sale  of  his 
wife’s  dower  in 
Wiverston. 


John  Hovell  held  the  4R‘ 
part  of  the  office  of  Proc¬ 
lamation  de  Banco  in  the 
King’s  household  on  46 
Ed.  3. 


Sir  Hugh  Hovell,  Knt.,  Lord  of  Wiverston  8f  Weston.  In  8  Ric.  23  he  was  party  to  a  fine,  1385,  by  which  Sir  John  de  Tudenham  8'  Margery- 
his  wife  entailed  the  Manors  of  Belings,  Grundesburgh,  Sutton  Newton.  By  fine  11  Ric.  23  be  settled  Ihe  Manor  of  Weston  upon  Johanna, 
who  was  (formerly)  the  wife  of  Sir  Robert  Hovell,  Chevalier,  for  her  life,  with  remainder  to  Thomas  Muncheney  in  fee  tail. 


Margaret,  dau.  8/~ 

13  Ric3  23.1 


heir,  Lady  of  Wiverston  fy'  Weston,  co.  Suff.,= 


A 


=Sir  Thomas  Muncheney,  Chevalier,  Lord  of  Wiverston  IFi?sf<m  in 
right  of  his  wife,  temp.  H.  4. 


Harrison  MSS.,  P.R.O.,  vol.  xxviii,  fol.  375 — 380. 

L2 


76 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


!?obrtl  of  glSJylxxcstonr.  &eronstructrti  ipetitgm. 

Richard  Hovel  1  of  Wyverstone,  co.  Suffolk ;  held  lands  there  of  Baldwin,  Abbot  of  Bury,  1065 — 1098,  Liber 
Pinchbeck  ( see  p.  55)  :  identical,  perhaps,  with  Hovell  who  witnessed  a  charter  of  Abbot  Leofstan  in  the  time 
of  Edward  the  Confessor,  and  with  Richard,  the  Wyverstone  landowner  named  in  Domesday. 


Richard  Hovell  of  Wyverstone,  tempore  Henry  I  (1100 — 1135).  See  pedigree  of  the 
Suffolk  Hovells  in  17th  century  “  MS.  quondam  penes  Sir  Jo.  Blois." 


Robert  Hovell,  named  in  the  Letlieringham  Ledger.  MS.  quondam  penes  Sir  Jo.  Blois.  Living, 
apparently,  in  the  time  of  King  Stephen  (1135 — 1154). 


Adam  Hovell  held  lands  in  Wyverstone  in  the  reigns  of  Henry  II  (1154 — 1189) 
and  King  John.  Curia  Regis  Roll,  4  John  ( see  p.  56).  His  son  Adam  Hovell 
was  evidently  of  full  age  in  1203. 

r . . r~ 

Ralph  Hovell  held  lands  in  Wyverstone  before=[=Alice,  his  widow,  claimed 


Ralph  Hovell,  the  King’s  Falconer,  1169,  bought 
birds  for  the  King’s  use.  Pipe  Roll,  Suffolk, 
15  H.  2. 


1229,  when  Alice,  his  widow,  claimed  dower. 
Fine  13  Hen.  3  ( see  p.  57). 


dower  of  divers  persons  in 
Wyverstone,  1229. 


Robert  Hovell  held  the  Manors  of= 
Weston,  Wyverstone,  Horpole  and 
Istede,  with  two  thirds  of  a  Knight’s 
fee  in  Westhorpe,  &lands  in  Cheston, 
etc.,  between  the  years  1225  &  1258. 


:Margery,  his  wife,  1225.  Curia 
Regis  Roll,  9  H.  3  ( see  p.  57)  ; 
living  1253.  Close  Roll  37  H.  3  : 
dau.  perhaps  of  Win.  de  Brise- 
worth  (see  p.  78). 


Adam  Hovell,  probably  the  younger  of  that  name,  had  held=p 
a  mill  and  lands  in  Hunston  before  1229.  Coram  Rege 
Roll,  13  H.  3  (see  p.  57). 

r . . J 

Martin  Hovell  hold  lands  in  Hunston  &  Little=pSarah,  his  wife, 
Ashfield  1258.  Fines  42  H.  3  ( see  p.  1),  and  i  joined  him  in  gifts 
in  Haverhill  and  Wratting  1269.  Fines  •  of  lands  to  St. 
53,  H.  3.  Probable  ancestor  of  the  Hovells  :  Mary’s  Chapel, 
of  Cowling.  ^Alverton,  1269. 

Hovell  or  Hunston,  etc. 


Robert  Hovell  held  the  Manors=j= Alianora  Segrave, 


Harl.  MS.  294,  fo. 
245,  1268—1283  : 

was  a  widow,  1286. 
Fine  11  E.  1.  Assize 
Rolls,  20  E.  1, 1292. 


of  W  eston,  W  y  verstone,  Horpole 
and  Istede,  and  lands  in  Wes¬ 
thorpe,  Cheston,  Risby  &Wey- 
bread,  between  the  years  1260 
and  1283 ;  was  dead  in  1287. 

r . 

Robert  Hovell,  son  of 
Robert,  1287,  &  Lord  of 
Weston, Quo  Warranto,  14 
E.  1 :  dead  in  1292,  when 
Hugh  Hovell,  his  brother, 
then  under  age,  was  his 
heir.  Assize  Roll  No.  839 
( see  p.  63). 

r . 

Robert  Hovell,  eldest  son  of  Hugh, =f= Joan,  his  wife 


Hubert  Hovell  abducted  and  married 
Ada,  dau,  of  Henry  de  Hastings,  a 
ward  of  the  King  1252.  He  was  dead 
in  1258,  when  she  claimed  dower  of 
lands  in  Horpole.  Fine  42  H.  3. 
See  p.  69. 


John  Hovell,  parson 
of  Wyverstone,  and 
lord  of  the  manor  of 
Finborough,  1258. 
Quo  Warranto  Roll, 
54  H.  3  ( see  p.  61). 


Bartholomew  Hovell, 
attorney  for  Hugh 
Hovell  and  Alianora, 
his  mother  1291. 
Placita,  19  E.  1. 


Joan,=Sir  Hugh  Hovell,  son=j=Agnes,  2d  wife,  1315,  Fine, 


1st 
wife, 
living 
1301. 
Fine, 
29 
E.  1. 


of  Alianora  and  heir 
to  Robert  his  brother 
1292  ;  then  under  age. 
Lord  of  Weston,  Wi- 
verston  and  Istede  : 
lands  in  Chesten,  etc.: 
dead  in  1339. 

. -+■” 

Robert 


8  E.2  ( see  p.  63) ;  dau.  per¬ 
haps  of  Robert  de  Tudden- 
ham,  Fine  19  E.  2,  etc. ;  a 
widow  1339  ;  living  1346 
(see  p.  64).  He  sold  lands 
in  Weston  1346,  20  E.  3, 
Feudal  Aids  (see  p.  64). 


John 

and 


Hovell 
Agnes, 
his  wife,  held 
land  in 
Wyverstone 
1296,  Fines, 
24  and  27 
E.  1  (p.  81). 


Stephen  Hovell, 
son  of  Alianora, 
1292,  Assize  Roll, 
839,  20  E.  1: 
lord  of  Horpole 
1319,  Fine,  12  E. 
2  :  dead  in  1346 
(see  pp.  62,  64). 


Robert,  son  of  Bar¬ 
tholomew  Hovell, 
with  Alianora,  his 
wife,  bought  the 
manor  of  Wes¬ 
thorpe,  lands  in 
Rickinghall,  etc., 
1349  (see  p.  67). 


1332,  1333.  Fine,  5  and  6  E.  3;  ]  1332, 
lord  of  Weston  and  lands  in  Risby  j  E.  3. 
circa  1346.  Feudal  Aids  (see  pp.  :  77.) 
77, 81).  ; 

r . . 


Fine 
(See  p. 


Hovell,  the 
younger,  named  with 
Hugh  his  brother  in 
Harl.  Charter  1331 
(p.  64). 

n 


William  Hovell,  son  of  Hugh 
and  Agnes,  1315,  Istede  Manor, 
Fine  (see  p.  63  ;  held  Knight’s 
fee  in  Weybread  1346,  20  E.  3 
(see  p.  64) . 


Robert,  son  of  Robert  Hovell, = Alice,  relict  of=John  Crulle,  2d  husb. 


1346,  20  E.  3,  Feudal  Aids  (see 
p.  64)  :  held  Knight’s  fee  in 
Wyverstone.  Sells  lands  to 
John  Hovell  and  Matilda,  his 
wife,  1357  :  dead,  apparently 
s.p.,  1382. 


Robert  Hovell, 
16  Oct.  1382: 
named  in  docu¬ 
ment,  Coll,  of 
Arms. 


1390,  Fine  13  R.  2: 
joins  wife  in  sale  of 
Wyverstone  and  Hor¬ 
pole  manoi’s  to  Tho¬ 
mas  Monchensev. 


John  Hovell  buys= 
lands  in  Wyverstone 
&  Westhorpe  1343, 
Fine,  16  E.  3  :  also  in 
1357  of  Robt.,  son  of 
Robt.  Hovell,  Fine, 
30  E.  3. 


-Matilda, da.  of 
William  Fitz 
William  of 
Finchingfield, 
co.  Essex. 
Fine,  1343,  16 
E.  3,  see  p.  65. 


Hugh  Hovell  of  Weston, = 
brother  to  Robert  1331 : 
not  named  in  Feudal  Aids 
1346.  Was  he  afterwards 
Sir  Hugh  Hovell  ? 


Hugh,  son  of  Sir  Hugh  Ho¬ 
vell,  held  the  manor  of  Wes¬ 
ton  for  life  1387,  Fine,  10  R. 
2  :  bought  lands  there  1395, 
Harl.  Charters,  49  C.  5  (see 
p.  72)  :  named  in  inquisi¬ 
tion,  10  H.  5,  Coll,  of  Arms. 


Thomas  Monchensy  conveyed  the 
manor  of  Weston,  for  life,  to  Joan 
the  widow  of  Sir  Robt.  Hovell, 
1387,  Fine,  10  R.  2  :  bought  Wy¬ 
verstone  &  Horpole  Manors  of 
Alice  Crulle  1390,  Fine,  13  R.  2. 


GriffinHovell, 
only  son  and 
heir  in  1343 : 
then  probably 
very  young. 


i  i  i  r . 

Elizabeth,  Margery, 
Matilda  and  Alice, 
sister  and  coheirs 
to  Griffin  Hovell, 
1343. 


Robert  Hovell, =f  Joan, 

1363,  appar-  •  John 
ently  of  Wes-  ;  den,  aunt  to  John 
ton,  co.  Suffolk,  •  de  Rattlesden  and 
1st  husband.  •  named,  1363,  in  his 


:  Inq.  p.m. 


sister  of  Sir— Robert  Monceux,  2d  husbd., 
de  Rattles-  Lord  of  Wood  Dalling,  co. 

Norfolk  &  Weston  Market, 
co.  Suff.,  17  R.  2,  1289.  Will 
20  April  1415,  Blomefield’s 
Norfolk,  viii,  318. 


Thomas  Hovell  a  wealthy  inhabitant  of  Suffolk 
1436.  Subsidy,  Divers  Counties,  14  H.  6,  ||  j. 


Robert  Hovell,  cousin  and  heir  to  John,  son  of  Sir  John  de  Rattlesden,  and  Lord  of 
the  Manor  of  Wood  Dalling,  co.  Norfolk,  1363 ;  was  then  aged  onlynine  months. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


77 


Dobell  of  ?fntnston,  Bratileg,  anti  Cotolmg. 

Adam  Hovell  held  lands  in  Wyverstone  in  the  time  of  Henry  II  (before 
1189)  ;  living  1203.  Curia  Regis  Roll,  4  John.  ( See  p.  56.) 


r 


Ralph  Hovell  held  lands  in  Wyver-^Alice,  his  widow,  claimed 
stone  ;  was  dead  iu  1229.  Fine  13  \  dower  of  Wyverstone 
H.  3.  \  lands  1229.  ( See  p.  57.) 


. i 

Adam,  son  of  Adam  Hovell,  attorney  for  his  father  1203  ; 
claimed  lands  in  Houston  1229.  Coram  Rege,  13  H.  3. 
( See  p.  56.)  Attorney  for  H.  de  Monte  Kannso. 
Fine  12  J ohn.  =j= 


Robert  Hovell,  Lord  of^pMargery,  his  wife 


Weston  and  Wyverston. 
Curia  Regis,  9  H.  3.  ( See 

p.  57,  Fine,  44  H.  3, 1261.) 


1225,  living  1261. 
Fine  45  H.  3.  ( See 
p.77.)  Close  Roll, 
37  H.  3. 


William  Hovell, 
of  Hunsterston 
or  Hunston,  a0 
1246. 


Martin  Hovell,  lands  in  Ashfield,= 
Hunston,  etc.,  1258.  Fine,  42  H. 
3.  ( See  p.  1.)  Sold  lands  in 

Wratting,  etc.,  1269.  Fine,  53 
H.  3. 


Sarah,  his  wife,  join¬ 
ed  in  gift  of  land  to 
Alverston  ch.  1269. 
(See  p.  61.) 


Bartholomew  Hovell  claimed  mill,  etc., 
in  Hunston  of  William  Hovell,  1291,  by 
brief  of  his  grandfather.  De  Banco 
Roll,  18  and  19  E.  1. 


Adam,  son  of  William  Ho¬ 
vell,  1286.  Assize  Roll,  14 
E.  1.  Attorney  for  Robert 
and  Margery  Hovell.  Fine, 
44  H.  3.  ( See  p.  79.) 


r . 

William,  son  of  Martin  Ho¬ 
vell  sells  mill  in  Hunston 
1291.  De  Banco,  Mich.  18  ^ 
19  E.  1.  Harrison  MS.,xxviii, 
233.  ( See  p.  67.) 


- 1 

Richard  Hovell, 
named  in  Fine, 
2  E.  3 ;  living 
circa  1310. 


r . 

Luke  Hovell,  of  Bradley  Parva,  sells  lands=Isabella,  his  wife, 
in  Hundon  and  Barnardiston  to  William  10  E.  3,  1337. 
Godyng,  of  Great  Thurlow.  Fine,  10  E.3. 

( See  page  82.) 


William,  son  of  Richard  Hovell,  1344,  sells  lands  in 
Cowling,  Lydgate,  Bradley,  and  Thurlow,  co.  Suffolk. 
Fine,  2  E.  3.  ( See  p.  82.)  Probable  ancestor  of  the 

Hovells  of  Cowling,  1473,  1563.  (See  p.  83.) 


We  give  below,  in  brief  summary,  some  of  the  many  contemporary  evidences  which  bear  upon  the 
above  pedigrees. 

In  1240  Roger  de  Westhorpe  claimed  two  parts  of  a  Knight’s  Fee  in  Westhorpe  of  William  de  Haudleye, 
whom  Robert  Hovell  called  to  warranty.  A  plea  of  dead  ancestors  was  summoned  between  them.  Haudleye 
acknowledged  the  two  parts  to  be  the  right  of  Westhorpe,  who  gave  them  to  Hovell,  with  the  advowson  of 

Westhorpe,  etc.,  to  hold  for  sixteen  years,  etc.  Fines,  Suffolk,  24  H.  3,  No.  39. 

In  1260  Robert  Hovell  acknowledged  that  he  owed  Richard  de  Clare,  Earl  of  Gloucester,  200  marks. 

He  would  pay  20  marks  on  the  feast  of  St.  Michael  each  year,  to  be  a  lien  in  the  Manors  of  Weston  and 

Cheston.  The  Earl  could  distrain  in  default.  Coram  Rege  Roll,  44  H.  3,  m.  32  dorso. 

In  the  Suffolk  Assizes  of  1286  Adam,  the  son  of  William  Hovell,  sued  Assellina,  who  had  been  the 
wife  of  Robert  Parson  of  Wyverston,  concerning  a  plea  of  dowry.  He  was  plaintiff  in  a  suit  against 
John  Hovell  and  Henry  de  Chamberlyn  and  Matilda  his  wife  in  a  plea  of  land;  and  in  another  suit  against 
William  the  son  of  Martin  Hovell  of  Hunterston.  Assize  Roll,  14  E.  1,  memb.  53,  53  dorso,  and  57. 

Hugh  Hovell  and  Johanna  his  wife,  in  1301,  bought  of  Hugh  Pecche  and  the  heirs  of  the  said  Hugh 
six  messuages,  170  acres  of  arable  land,  etc.,  in  Cheston  and  South  Elmham.  Fine,  Suffolk,  29  E.  1,  No.  80. 

Sir  Hugh  Howell,  1316,  returned  as  lord  of  Wyverstone  and  Weston,  and  joint  lord  of  Cheston  and 

Blithford,  co.  Suffolk,  9  E.  2 ;  summoned,  1324,  as  knight  for  Suffolk  to  attend  the  Great  Council  at  West¬ 
minster  17  E.  2.  Parliamentary  Writs,  vol.  ii,  1025. 

Robert  Hovell,  senior,  son  of  Hugh  Hovell,  Chevalier,  and  Joan  his  wife,  in  1332  and  1333,  buys  lands 
in  Wickham  Market  of  Vincent  Morwan  of  Pettistree  and  of  Robert  Loveday  and  Agnes  his  wife.  Suffolk 
Fines,  5  and  6  E.  3. 

In  1340  Robert  Hovell  bought  of  Robert  of  Wyllasham  [and  Scientia  his  wife,  two  messuages,  forty  acres 

of  land,  etc.,  in  Combes,  Battisford,  Hecham,  Finborough  Magna  and  Finborough  Parva.  Suffolk  Fines, 

13  E.  3,  No.  16. 


78 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ADDITIONAL  EVIDENCES. 

JUtcta  bt  Urisrhiortlj  b.  Robert  llobell,  1250. 

Placita  apud  Westm  a  die  sci  micB  in  tres  septenn.  Anno  regni  Regis  Hen?  fit  Reg 

Joins  tricesimo  qrto. 

Sufff  Alic  q  fuit  vx  Willi  de  Brisewrth  pet  u  Robtii  Houel  ?ciam  pte  xxx  acr  ?re  cum 
ptin  in  Wymardest  't  Westorp  vt  dote  sua  T:c. 

Et  Robs  venit.  Et  de  ?cia  pte  xxi  acr  ?re  p  lie  reddit  ei.  Heat  seys  suam.  d  de  feia 
p  ix  acr  ?re  voc  ad  Warant  Mariam  T  Matill  fit  T  hered  ipius  Wiiti  que  sunt  infra  etate  T 
in  custodia  PM  de  Eye.  Et  io  sum  pdcs  PBs  qd  sit  in  aduentu  Justic  T  ibi  heat  ftetcas 
heredes.  Idem  dies  da?  est  fldic  Alic  p  attorn  suu  in  Banco. 

Curia  Regis  Roll,  No.  143,  m.  11. 

Alice,  who  was  late  the  wife  of  William  de  Briseworth,  seeks  versus  Robert  Hovell  the 
third  part  of  thirty  acres  of  land  in  Wyverstone  and  Westhorpe  as  her  dower.  And  Robert 

Hovell  comes.  And  of  the  third  of  twenty-one  acres  he  rendered  dower  to  her.  She  may 

have  her  seisin.  And  of  the  third  part  of  nine  acres  he  called  to  warrant  Margery  and 

Matilda,  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  the  said  William,  who  are  within  age  and  in  the  custody 
of  Philip  de  Eye.  And  therefore  the  said  Philip  is  summoned  that  he  may  be  present  at  the 
coming  of  the  Judges  and  there  produce  the  said  coheirs.  The  same  day  is  appointed  to  Alice 
per  her  Attorney  in  Banco. 


Robert  Hobell  &  JRargern  &  \bam  #obell,  1261. 

Hec  est  final  concordia  fca  in  Curia  dni  Reg  apud  Westm  in  castino  Anima^  anno  regni 
Reg  Hen?  fit  Reg  JoBis  quadr  quinto  coram  Gilbto  de  Preston,  JoBe  de  Wyuitl  T  JoBe  de 
Kana,  Justic  d  alijs  dni  Reg  fidel  ibi  psent  In?  Hug  de  Dunste?  T  Alic  vx  eius  que?  T 

Rotitrh  Houel  T  Marcia  vx  ei9  deforc  p  Ada  Houel  pditu  loco  ipi9  Robti  ad  luend  uel  pdendu 

de  vna  Carucat  tre  in  Wychm.  Vnde  plm  couencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eade  Cu?.  Scilt  qd 
pdei  Hug  T  Alic  recogn  jidcam  ?ram  cu  ptin,  vt  in  dnicis,  fidelitatibj,  Suiciis,  Libo<p  hominfi, 
villenagiis,  Wardis,  releuiis,  escaetis,  boscis,  patis,  pasturis,  aquis,  stagnis,  molendinis  T  omibj  alijs 
reb3  ad  pdcam  ?ram  ptinentibj,  esse  Jus  ipo^  Robti  «k  Marg’ie.  Et  p  hac  recogn  fine  T 
concordia  ijdem  Robs  T.  Marfia  concesserunt  pdcis  Hugoi  1  Alic  j5dcm  ?ra  Habend  T  tenend 
eisde  Hugoi  1  Alic  tota  vita  ipo$  Hug  T  Alic.  Ita  tamen  qd  ijde  Hug  T  Alic 

ul  alt  ipoij  qui  diucius  alte?o  supstes  fuerit,  Bebnt  I  tenebnt  pdeem  ?ram  a  festo  sci  NicBi 
anno  regni  eiusde  dni  Reg  quadr  qarto  usq3  ad  fine  quatuordeci  anno;j  pxio  sequentm 
plena?  conplet^  nichil  inde  reddendo  ul  faciendo  pter  regale  suiem  qd  ad  illam  ?ram 
ptinet.  Et  post  fine  $dco£  anno^  ijde  Hug  T  Alic  Bebnt  T  tenebnt  jldcam  ?ram  tota  vita 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


79 


vtriusq3  ipof  Hugois  d  Alic  Reddendo  inde  p  annu  viginti  libras  sterlingojj  p  omi  §uico 
consuetudie  d  exaccoe.  Si  ijde  Hugo  1  Alic  ante  fine  eiusde  ?mini  obierunt  ()dca  ?ra  reuertetur 
ad  fJdcos  Robm  I  Mar^iam  d  heredes  eoj  quiete  inppet.  Et  p?ea  ijde  Hug  d  Alic  dedernt 
pdcis  Robto  d  Margie  centu  marcas  argenti.  Suff. 

This  fine  is  endorsed  “  Et  Ad  que  fuit  vx  Hubti  Houell  apponit  clamium  suu.” 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  43-45  H.  3,  No.  45. 

We  have  here  in  one  document  the  names  of  Robert  Hovell  of  Wyverstone  and  Mai'gery 
his  wife,  Adam  Hovell,  apparently  of  the  Hunston  branch,  and  Ada  the  widow  of  Hubert 
Hovell,  as  members  of  one  family.  At  a  date  when  positive  proof  of  relationships  is  rare,  such 
incidental  and  suggestive  evidence  is  especially  valuable. 


Kolrnt  Hobdl  anb  Alianora  bis  hrifr,  1271. 

Sciant  jlsentes  ct  futuri  quod  ego  Robertus  Houel  miles  concessi  dedi  d  hac  jisenti  carta 
raea  confirmaui  deo  d  ecclie  see  marie  de  Butte!  d  priori  et  canonicis  ibidem  deo  luientibus  d 
in  inppetuu  suituris  p  salute  aTe  mee  A  alienor  vxoris  mee  d  p  salute  aia£  patris  et  matris 
mee  d  puero^  meo£  d  ancesso^  meo^  in  libam  puram  d  ppetua  elemosina  totu  tenements  qd 
Wal?s  Cubald  filius  Rotiti  Cubald  aliqu  tenuit  de  feodo  meo  T  villa  de  Weybrede.  Videlicet  in 
mesuagiis,  terris,  viis,  senutis,  pasturis,  patis  d  pascuis  vna  cu  omibus  aliis  rebus  d  ptinentiis 
ad  dcin  tenerntu  quoquo  modo  sptantibus.  Habend  d  tenend  dcis  pori  d  canoicis  d  eo^ 
successoribj  d  ecce  eo£  jidee  libere,  quiete,  bn,  pacifice,  integre  d  plena?  in  librrh  pura  d 
ppetua  elemosina  in  ppetuu.  Et  ego  fifatus  Robtus  d  heredes  mei  Warant^abim,  defendem  d 
adquietabim  f?dcm  tenerntu  cu  omibus  supadcis  d  eo£  ptinentiis  jirioratis  jiori  d  canoicis  d 
successoribus  d  Ecce  eo^  conta  onis  homes  d  femas  in  ppetuu.  Pro  hac  aut  cocessione 
donacone  d  huj^  carte  mee  cofirmacine,  Warant^acone,  defensione  d  adquietacone  jidci  jtar  d 
canoici  recepernt  me  d  Alienora  vxore  mea  A  pueros  meos  d  alas  patris  A  matris  mee  in 
singlis  bnficiis  A  oronibus  q  dece?o  fient  in  Ecclia  eo^  [idea.  In  cujs  rei  testimonm  jisenti 
scripto  sigillu  meu  apposui.  Hiis  testibus.  Dno  Wilio  de  Medefeld  milite,  Ric  le  vel  d  Wiffo 
filio  suo,  Valentino  de  schotford,  Alex  de  Chebehal,  Wilio  de  Thykebrom,  Wiffo  de  Blaucheuitt, 
Robt  Charneleyn,  Reginald  de  Creting,  Thom  Houdyn,  Reginald  le  Tanvr,  Thorn  Bolle,  Alan 
marchoys,  Galf?  Herlok,  seman  spurhard,  Hubert  flecheshehe,  thorn  Weriband,  d  aliis. 

Harleian  Charter,  51  G.  49. 

By  this  Charter  Sir  Robert  Hovell  grants  lands  in  Weybread  to  the  Prior  and  Canons 
of  Butley,  for  perpetual  prayers  for  the  souls  of  himself  and  Alianora  his  wife,  his  parents, 
his  children,  and  his  ancestors. 


JUtanora  HoMl  sms  for  trnfmr  in  lallmgboo,  1288. 

Alianora  who  was  (late)  the  wife  of  Robert  Hovell  offers  herself  versus  John,  son  of 
Bartholomew  de  Avelers,  of  a  plea  of  the  third  part  of  seventeen  acres  of  arable  land,  two 
acres  of  meadow,  twenty  shillings  rent,  and  a  rent  of  six  hens  and  twenty  four  eggs  and 


80 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


one  hundred  and  five  days  work  in  Dallinghoo  and  Pettistree . and  against  Roger  le 

Monner  of  a  plea  of  the  third  part  of  one  acre  and  a  half  of  land  in  Thorpe,  Altenston  and 
Morston :  and  against  Ham  on  Pynervel  of  a  plea  of  the  third  part  of  three  acres  of  land  in 
the  said  towns :  &c.  And  they  do  not  come.  And  they  are  summoned.  Judgement  is  recorded 
that  the  said  third  parts  be  taken  into  the  Kings  hands.  And  a  day  is  given  that  the 
defendants  be  here  in  fifteen  days  of  Holy  Trinity. 

De  Banco  Roll  (72),  16  Edw.  I,  m.  23. 

Just  two  hundred  and  thirty  six  years  later,  viz.  in  1524,  Robert  Hovell  alias  Smyth — 
the  first  of  that  name  to  make  any  will — directed  that  he  should  be  buried  in  the  church  of 
Our  Lady  in  Dallinghoo.  ( See  page  22).  It  is  interesting  to  note  how  many  Smiths  of 
Ashfield,  Badwell,  Dallinghoo,  Huiiston  and  Rickinghall— places  where  the  Hovells  had  once 
owned  lands — began  to  style  themselves  Hovell  alias  Smith,  in  the  sixteenth  century.  In  Cowling 
alone,  as  we  shall  presently  show,  and  the  adjoining  village  of  Kirtling,  is  there  any  trace 
of  an  unbroken  line  of  Hovells  from  the  days  of  Edward  the  First  to  those  of  Queen  Elizabeth  : 
and  there  the  name,  whenever  met  with,  is  Hovell  or  Howell  only. 

It  will  be  noticed  that  Morston  occurs  as  the  name  of  a  Suffolk  township,  in  connection 
with  Hugh  Hovell  and  Agnes  his  wife,  in  1326.  ( See  Fine,  p.  81.) 


JUatt  Uobdl  sdls  Hugljljaglje  JHanor,  1292. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  Dili  Regis  apud  Westni  a  die  Pasch  in  quincqj 

septiminas  Anno  Regni  Regis  Edwardi  filii  Regis  Hen?  vicesimo.  Coram  Johne  de  Metyngham, 

Robto  de  Hertford,  Wilimo  de  Hereford,  Elia  de  Bekyngham  T  Wilimo  de  Giselham,  Justic  T 
aliis  Dni  Regis  fidelibus  tunc  ibi  jisentibus.  In?  Wal?m  filiii  Semanni  de  ffresyngfeld  T  Lenotam 
vxem  eius  T  Johnem  filiu  eiusdfh  Walti  quer  T  Alanu  Houel  deforc  de  Manlio  de  Rughhaghe 

cum  ptin.  Vnde  pltm  conuencois  sum  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cur  Scitt  qS  predcus  Alanus  recogn 

fldcfh  mane?  esse  Jus  ipius  Johnis,  vt  illud  quod  iidem  Waltus  T  Lenota  T  Johnes  bent  de 
dono  pdci  Alani.,  Habend  T  tenend  eisdem  Walfo,  Lenote  T  JoSi  T  her  ipius  Johnis  de  Capit 
Dnis  feodi  illius  p  seruicia  que  ad  ittud  ptinent  imppm.  Et  p  hac  recognicone  fine  T  concordia 
ijdem  Wal?us,  Lenota,  T  Johnes  dederunt  predco  Alano  vni  Spua?  so£.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  18-20  Edward  I,  No.  37. 

By  this  Fine  Alan  Hovell  recognizes  that  Rughhage  Manor  is  the  right  of  John  de  Fressing- 

field,  as  that  which  Walter  de  Fressingfield  and  Lenota  his  wife,  the  parents  of  John,  have  of 

jhe  gift  of  the  said  Alan.  And  for  this  acknowledgement  Walter,  Lenota  and  John  de 

Fressingfield  have  given  Alan  Hovell  one  sore-hawk. 

We  learn  from  Liber  Pinchebeck,  one  of  the  ancient  Registers  of  the  Abbey  of  Bury, 
that  in  1286,  Alan  Hovell  held  of  that  convent  in  “Cagehall,”  twenty  acres  of  arable  land  and 
two  acres  of  wood  at  the  rent  of  six  shillings  and  eight  pence  per  annum,  together  with  a 
messuage  and  three  acres  of  land  at  the  rent  of  eleven  pence.  Cagehall  would  seem  to  have 
been  a  manor  or  hamlet  in  the  vicinity  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  Alan  Hovell  is  incidentally 
named  in  many  documents  connected  with  his  family. 


HOVELL  OF  WYV  ERSTONE. 


81 


|ol)ii  '§obell  antt  JVgius,  bis  Imfr.  JFttte  1^99 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Cur  dni  Regis  apud  Ebor  in  Crastino  sci  Joiiis 
Bapte,  anno  regni  regis  Edwardi  vicesimo  septimo  coram  Jobne  de  Meryngham  etc. 
Justic  T  alijs  In?  Wittm  de  Burnton  quef  T  Jobnem  Houel  T  Agn  vx  eius  imped  de  vno 

mesuag  (juinqj  acr  terre  T  dimid,  nouem  acf  bosci  duabj  acr  pasture  T  dimid  T  sex  denar 

redditus  in  Wyuerston.  Vnde  piitum  Warant  carte  sum  fuit  inf  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Sciit  qd 
ffdci  Johnes  *1  Agn  recogn  [idea  ten  esse  Jus  ipius  Witti  vt  ilia  que  bet  de  dono  fidcojp  Jobis 
T  Agn.  Et  [idea  ijdem  Jobnes  T  Agn  Warant  eidem  Wiftino  1  her  suis  [idea  ten  conta  omes 
boies  imppm.  Et  p  hac  reeognitione  Warant  fine  &  concordia  idem  Wifim  dedit  predcis  Jobis 
T  Agn  viginti  marcas  argenti.  Sufff. 

Suffolk  Fines,  26-29  Edw.  I,  No.  16. 

In  1281  William  de  Burnton  purchased  the  Manors  of  Wyverstone  and  Weston  of  Robert 

Hovell  and  Alianora  his  wife,  the  latter  being  his  daughter.  (But  Query  1).  It  was  agreed  that 

Hovell  should  hold  three  manors  of  him  at  the  yearly  rent  of  a  rose,  and  that  after  his 

decease  they  should  remain  to  Hovell  and  his  heirs.  Fine,  9  E.  3,  111.  In  1296  he  bought 
lands  in  Wyverstone  of  John  Hovell  and  Agnes  his  wife  {Fine,  21/.  E.  1),  and  again,  as 
declared  above,  in  1299.  In  1297  Cecilia  de  Sparkeford  and  Nicholas,  her  son,  also  purchased 

a  messuage  in  Wyverston  of  John  and  Agnes  Hovell.  {Fine,  25  E.  1,  No  37.) 


Hugh  Hobcll  anD  bis  h rife,  1326. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  facta  in  curia  dni  Regis  apud  Westm  a  die  sci  Hillar  in 

quindecim  dies  anno  regni  Regis  Edwardi  filij  Regis  Edwardi  nono.  In?  Hugonem  Houel  1 
Agnetem  vxefn  eius  quef  T  Robtm  de  Tudenham  deforc,  de  manerijs  de  Weston  5.  Morston  A 
duob}  mesuagiis  A  quadraginta  A  trebj  acris  terre  &c.  &c.  in  Weston,  Hoppeton,  Theluetham, 
Bernyngham,  Stanton,  Congeston,  Alteneston  sci  Johis,  Tremeleye  see  marie,  Tremeleye  sci  Martini 
T  Stratton  in  Colneyse  T  aduocacoem  ecciie  yfclci  manerij  de  Weston.  Ynde  plitm  conuencionis 
sum  fuit  in?  eos.  Scitt  qd  fide  us  Hugo  recogn  pdea  ten  cum  ptih  'I  aduocacoem  ffdcam  esse 

Jus  ipius  Robti  vt  ilia  que  idem  Robtus  bet  de  dono  jfdci  Hugonis.  Et  p  hac  recognicoe  idem 

Robtus  concessit  jldicis  Hugoni  T  Agn  /Idea  ten  T  aduocacoem  jfdcain,  tota  vita  ipo^  Hugonis 
T  Agn.  Et  post  decessum  ipo£  Hugonis  T  Agn  [idea  ten  &c.  integre  remanebnt  Robto  I 
Hugoni  filijs  eo^dem  Hugonis  T  Agn  ....  tota  vita  ipo£  Robti  t  Hugonis  fit  eojdem 

Hugonis  T  Agn.  Et  post  decessum  ipo^  Robti  T  Hugonis  jfdca  ten  Arc.  integre  remanebunt 
rectis  bedibj  ffetei  Hugonis  Houel,  tenent  de  capit  dnis  feodi  illius  &c.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  19  Edward  II,  No.  10. 

This  parchment  is  endorsed  “  Robtus  fil  Hugonis  Houel  apponit  clam  suu.” 

This  fine  establishes  the  title  of  Hugh  Hovell  and  Agnes  his  wife  to  the  Manors  of 
Weston  and  Morston  (1  Worston,  i.e.  Wyverston),  and  to  certain  lands  in  Hopton,  Thelvetham, 
Barningham,  Stanton,  Coney weston,  etc.,  with  remainder,  after  their  decease,  to  Robert  Hovell 
and  Hugh  Hovell  their  sons,  and  to  the  right  heirs  of  Hugh  Hovell  for  ever. 

M 


82 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Ink  Bokll  anti  Isabella  bts  Imfe,  JFtne,  1557. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  facta  in  Cur  dm  Regis  apud  Ebo^  a  die  Pasch  in  tres 
septiminas  anno  regni  Edwardi  t'cij  a  conquestu  decimo  ....  In?  Wittm  fit  Stephi  Godyng 
de  Magna  Thrillowe  T  J otlam  vxeih  eius  quer  T  Lucam  de  Houyl  de  Parua  Bradeleye  T 
Isabellam  vxern  eius  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio,  triginta  acris  tre  duabj  acr  (iti  duabj  acris 

pasture  viginti  denaratis  redditus  T  redditu  vnius  libre  cere  in  Honedene  1  Bernardeston. 
Ynde  plitm  conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Scitt  qd  pdci  Lucas  1  Isabella  con- 

cesserunt  pdcis  WiHo  T  Joline  (idea  ten  (fee . Reddendo  inde  p  annu  vna  rosam  ad  frri 

Natiuit  sci  Joins  Bapte.  Et  fidci  Lucas  1  Isabella  “I  her  ipius  Isabelle  Warant  pdcis  Witlo  °t 
Joline  L  her  suis  pdea  ten  cu  ptin  cont  orhes  boies  imppm.  Et  si  contingat  qd  ijdem  WiUms 
1  Johna  obierunt  sine  herede  de  corpib3  suis  exeunte,  tunc  post  decessu  ipo$  Willi  T  Johne 
(idea  ten  integre  reutent  ad  (idcos  Lucam  T:  Isabella  L  her  Isabelle.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  10  Edw  III,  No.  36. 

Tliis  is  one  of  the  first  of  a  small  series  of  documents  relating  to  the  Hovells  of 

Cowling,  Bradley,  Wratting  and  Kirtling,  a  group  of  adjacent  villages,  in  the  fourteenth, 

fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries.  Their  exact  connection  with  the  Hovells  of  Westhorpe  and 
Wyverstone  has  not  as  yet  been  fully  ascertained,  but  they  were  probably  descendants  of  Martin 
Ho  veil  and  Sarah  his  wife,  who  (see  page  61)  owned  lands  in  Great  and  Little  Wratting  in 
1269.  Blomefield  states  (Hist,  of  Norfolk ,  viii,  465),  on  what  authority  we  know  not,  that  a 
Sir  John  Hovell  of  Wratting  Parva  was  living  in  1370. 


William,  son  of  Hicljarb  ifokll.  lanbs  tit  ffolnling,  1544. 

Hec  est  concordia  facta  in  cur  dni  Reg  apud  Ebor  in  quindecim  dies  a  die  sancti  Johis 
Bapte  anno  Regis  Edwardi  ?cij  a  conquestu  sedo  coram  Wilto  de  Herle  &c.  In?  Margaretam 
que  fuit  vx  Edmundi  de  Shardelowe,  quer  T  Withn  Payn  capellanu  T  Wiffm  filiu  Rici  de 

Hauuyle  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio,  duabj  carucatis  tre,  triginta  acris  pati,  quadraginta  acris 
pasture,  decern  acris  bosci  T  quadraginta  solidatis  redditus  in  Coulynge,  Lydgate,  Otteleye, 
Bradeley  T  Trillowe.  Vnde  plitm  conuecois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Sciit  qd  Margareta 
recogii  (Idea  ten  esse  Jus  ipius  Willi  Payn  vt  ilia  que  ijdem  Witlus  T  Wills  filius  Rici 

bent  de  dono  (idee  Margarete.  Et  Witlus  Payne  T  Willus  fit  Rici  concesserunt  (idee  Margarete 
pdea  teii  ilia  et  reddiderunt  in  eadem  Cur  Habend  T  Tedend  &c.  Et  post  decessum  ipius 

Margaret  (idea  ten  remanebunt  Johi  filio  Edmundi  de  Shardelawe  T  her  de  corpe.  Et  si 
contingat  qd  idem  Jo  fines  obierit  sine  her  de  corpe,  tunc  post  decessum  ipius  Jofinis  integre 

remanebunt  Agh  sorori  eiusden  Johis  (fee.  (fee.  Suff. 

Suffolk  Fines,  2  Ed,  3,  No.  17. 

To  establish  her  title  to  messuage  and  lands  in  Cowling,  Lydgate,  Bradley,  <tc.,  Margaret, 
widow  of  Edmund  de  Shardelow  acknowledges,  in  the  King’s  Court  at  York,  that  she  had  given 
them  to  William  Payn,  Chaplain,  and  William  the  son  of  Richard  de  Hauvyle,  and  that  they 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE. 


83 


were  the  right  owners.  Whereupon  they  render  them  again  to  her  and  her  heirs,  specifying 

the  future  line  of  entail  in  the  Shardelow  family.  From  1269  downwards  there  are  scattered 
indications  of  a  line  of  Hovells  of  Cowling  and  its  neighbourhood  until  the  middle  of  the 

sixteenth  century,  when  John  Hovell  of  that  place  devised  his  lands  to  female  relatives. 

[Will,  P.C.C.  27  Chayre,  1568).  Amongst  the  wealthier  inhabitants  of  Suffolk  in  1436  was  a 
Thomas  Hovyle  ( Subsidies ,  Divers  Counties,  14  H.  6,  Iff) ;  but  the  family  had  evidently  suffered 
from  the  unsettled  state  of  the  country  when  Thomas  Hovell  of  Hovell’s  in  Cowling  made  his 

will  in  1473,  of  which  we  give  an  abstract.  William,  his  son,  was  very  young,  and  may  have 

been  identical  with  the  William  Howell  of  Cowling,  who  made  his  will  [Arch.  Sudb.)  in  1538, 
but  this  is  very  doubtful. 

Camden  in  his  Magna  Brittania  ( Gough's  Edition ,  vol.  ii,  82)  tells  us  of  a  house  in 

Cowling  “  which  commands  a  fine  view  of  the  venerable  remains  of  Kirtling  in  Cambridgeshire, 
the  antient  seat  of  the  North  family.”  There  were  several  Hovells  in  Kirtling  in  1522  ( Subsidy , 
Cambridgeshire,  14  H.  8,  -jV,),  of  whom  a  certain  William  Hovell  was  the  chief.  In  1543  he 

was  replaced  by  Stephen  Hovell  ( Subsidy ,  Carnb.,  34  &  85  II.  8,  TyT),  who  afterwards  removed 

to  Horningsea,  where  he  made  his  will  ( Ely  Consistory)  13  July  1552. 


Will  of  ®Ijomas  Hobdl,  1473, 

Hec  est  vltia  voluntas  mei  Thome  hovell  fact  xvi°  die  marcij  a0  dni  mittmo  cccclxxiiici<> 
Yolo  qd  Alicia  vx  mea  habebfc  tentu  voc  Hovelles  cu  omibj  ?rs  pascuis  4  pasturis  cu  omibj  cu 
ffarwelles  Crofte  Ac.  vsq  Will  filiu  meus  sit  etatis  xviij  anno£.  Et  si  contigat  eundem  Witim 
obir  ante  etate  xviij  annojj  volo  qd  vx  mea  habebit  Scum  tentu  c  omibj  pmisis  ad  ?mu  vite 
sue,  4  post  decessu  su'd  dcum  tentu  Ac.  vendet1'  4  pecunia  disponatr  sedm  discrescionem  executoj 
meorjj  eccie  de  Cowlyng  4  in  alijs  opibj  caritat  4  salute  ale  mee.  Et  cu  idem  Will  ms  sit  etatis 
xviij  annox  tunc  volo  qd  mat  sua  4  ille  diuident  omia  bona  Ac.  equaliter  in?  eos,  visu  Walteri 
Cowge  A  Wiftm  More  executo^  meo<j.  Volo  qd  Knappyngs  4  Cokks  vendanf  immediate  post 
decessh  meu.  Residuu  disponef  pro  ata  mea  T;  aiabj  ffentu  meo^,  ad  honore  dei  T  p  salute 
ale  mee  Ac.  Yolo  qd  vx  mea  4  Wills  fili0  meus  intrahvnt  in  dco  tento  voc  Hovelles  ad  tminii 
vite  v2  mee.  Si  concordat1,  vx  mea  habebit  p  mansione  illud  messuagiu  voc  Wodgate  4  vnam 
acr  tre  in  Mellefeld  4:  idem  Wilis  soluet  A  dabit  matri  sue  annuat  postqu  intrauit  tenth  jfdcm. 
It  idem  Wiiius  inueniet  matri  sue  dur  vita  sua  focale  sufficient  A  faciet  4  in  fagotte  cariabit 
dom  focale  ex  sumptu  suo  pro  mansione  matris  sue  si  manebit  in  Cowlyng.  It,  Wiiius  filius 
meus  liebit  aratru  meu  cu  equis  4  omibj  apparats  cu  venerit  ad  etatem  xviij  anno<>.  Pbih  fuit 
psens  testam  vii  Junij  a0  dni  millimo  cccclxxiiijto  comiss  est  admistr  bono^  ex  in  dco  testa  noTat. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Mason,”  fo.  2. 

This  is  the  last  will  of  me  Thomas  Hovell,  made  on  the  16th  day  of  March,  1473.  I 
will  that  Alice  my  wife  shall  have  the  tenement  called  Hovells  with  all  the  lands,  feedings 
and  pastures,  Ac.,  together  with  Farwelles  Crofte,  Ac.,  until  William  my  son  attain  his  age  of 
eighteen  years.  And  if  it  happen  to  the  said  William  to  die  before  he  attain  that  age  I  will 
that  my  wife  have  the  said  tenement  and  premises  for  the  term  of  her  life,  and  that  after 


84 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


her  decease  they  be  sold,  and  the  money  be  disposed  at  the  discretion  of  my  executors  in  the 
church  of  Cowling  and  in  other  works  of  charity  for  the  health  of  my  soul.  And  when  the 
said  William  may  be  eighteen  years  old  I  will  that  his  mother  and  he  divide  all  goods,  ifec., 
equally  between  them  in  the  presence  of  William  Cowper  and  William  More  my  executors.  I 
will  that  Knappyngs  and  Cocks  be  sold  immediately  after  my  decease.  The  residue  to  be 
disposed  of  for  my  soul  and  for  the  souls  of  my  parents,  to  the  honour  of  God.  I  will  that 
my  wife  and  William  my  son  shall  inhabit  the  tenement  called  Hovells  to  the  end  of  my  wife’s 
life.  If  it  is  agreed  that  my  wife  have  for  her  dwelling  place  that  messuage  called  Woodgate, 
and  one  acre  of  land  in  Melfield,  William  shall  give  his  mother  an  annuity  after  she  have 
entered  upon  it.  During  her  life  William  shall  find  his  mother  in  sufficient  fuel,  faggots,  etc., 
if  she  will  remain  in  Cowling.  William  my  son  shall  have  my  ploughs  with  horses  and  all 
implements  when  he  shall  come  to  the  age  of  eighteen  years. 

This  will  was  proved  on  the  7th  day  of  June,  1474,  and  administration  granted  to  the 
executors. 


Mill  of  Jlobtt  16 o foil  of  Huri),  1515. 

The  vi,h  of  Marche,  1515,  John  Hovyll  of  Bury  Seynt  Edmond.  To  be  buried  in  the 
monasty  of  Bury  afore  the  Huly  Rede,  at  the  south  dore  by  the  grave  of  my  ffader.  To 
Margery  my  wyfe  x1  &  my  howse  which  I  now  dwelle  in  whiche  war  sum  tyme  John  Maybew. 
At  the  discese  of  the  seid  Mar^'y  seid  howse  to  remayne  to  John  Hovyl  my  sone.  If  seid 
John  discese  afor  he  comyth  to  thage  of  xx  yeers  seid  tent  to  remayn  to  Robt  my  sone. 
And  if  he  so  discese,  to  Edmond  my  sone  whan  he  comyth  to  seid  age.  And  if  it  fortune 
Margery  to  discese  afor  any  of  them  come  to  full  age,  than  I  will  that  my  brod*']  Dam  John 
Shuldhih,  monk,  shall  have  the  rule  of  seid  tent  to  the  tyme  that  on  of  my  childeryn  come 
to  the  age  of  xx  yeers.  Aft1  my  discese  Margery  my  wyfe  shal  have  my  other  howse,  sumtyme 
Wiftm  langleye ;  Robt  my  sone,  if  he  be  alyve  T  of  thage  of  xx  yeers  to  entre  into  seid  tent. 
To  John  Hovyll  my  older  sone  xx1  at  the  bequest  of  his  grandfader  which  was  x1.  To  Robt 
my  sone  xx1.  To  Edmond  xx1  &c.  And  whef  I  have  delyued  also  my  lord  Abbot  xx11  to  helpe 
to  the  kepyng  of  my  seid  iij  sones,  that  the  seid  Margery  my  wyfe  shall  resceyve  &  take  of 
my  lord  vi1  xiij8  iiijcl  euy  yeer  to  kepe  wfc  my  seid  childeryn  to  the  tyme  the  xx1  be  spent. 
And  if  she  be  remysse,  upon  a  request  made  by  my  brodr  Dam  Robt  Shuldhm  to  heym,  she 
to  gyve  a  trewe  T  faythfull  accompt  of  such  gods  as  were  myn  at  the  tyme  of  my  deth.  I 
ordeyne  Wiftm  Powle  sugvisour.  Executors,  my  wyfe  &  Dam  Robt  Shuldhm  my  broder  T  Richard 
Tassell  drag.  Probt  xv  die  Aprl  1516.  Comiss  admistr  bono^  Margerie  supradict  I;  Dom  Robt 
Shuldham  executors.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Hoode,”  fo.  21. 

John  Havell  the  elder  of  Bury,  testator’s  father,  who  must  in  his  younger  days  have 
been  contemporary  with  Thomas  Hovell  of  Cowling,  made  his  will  (Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Hoode,” 
fo.  5h)  Dec.  4th  1512.  He  desired  to  be  buried  “in  the  porche  of  seynt  Jamys  churche,  ther 
our  lady  stode  in  Bury.”  He  names  Margery  his  late  wife,  “  Damp  Rober  Shuldhm  ”  his  son, 
John  Hawell  his  son  and  John  Hawell,  his  son’s  son,  to  whom  he  bequeathed  ten  pounds  when 
twenty  one,  etc.,  etc, 


^ol nil  of  ©Bpbcrstonr  anti 

€lstm. 


Will  of  J^UpIjnt  Hobi'll,  1552* 

The  xxxth  day  of  July  1552,  Stephan  Howell  of  Hornyngsay  in  the  cowntie  of  Cant. 

To  the  poore  men’s  boxe  xxs.  To  Agnes  Howell  my  doughter  xx11  and  to  Allice  Howell  my 
doughter  xx1'  to  be  paid  on  the  day  of  theire  marriage ;  and  if  theie  come  not  both  to  yt 
the  one  to  heyer  the  other.  Y nto  Edwarde  my  sonne  my  house  and  land  in  Cartlynge :  allso 
I  will  that  Joane  my  wife  haue  saiede  house  and  land  so  longe  as  she  kepithe  her  vnmariede. 
Also  I  giue  to  Edwarde  my  sonne  the  lease  of  my  house  which  I  dwellin  called  Hye  Haule. 
To  Johan  Rey  my  kynsman  ffyue  combes  barleye.  Johan  my  wif  and  Edwarde  my  sonne  to 
be  executors.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  to  be  deuided  equally  betwene  them.  Martyn  ffoxe  my 
wiffes  father  to  be  supuisor.  (No  probate  entered.) 

Ely  Consistory,  Book  “  N.,”  fo.  86. 

Stephen  Howell,  the  testator,  was  of  Kirtling  in  1543,  but  in  1545  had  already  settled 
at  Horningsea.  Lay  Subsidies,  Cambridge,  vrV  He  was  probably  the  son  of  William 

Hovell  of  Kirtling,  who  was  assessed  at  a  substantial  sum  in  1522.  Lay  Subsidy,  Cambridge, 

In  these  documents  the  name  is  sometimes  written  Hovell,  and  sometimes  Howell.  Joan, 
his  widow,  became  the  wife  of  Thomas  Willowes  or  Willys,  also  of  High  or  Ey  Hall,  by  whom 
she  had  further  issue,  her  great  grandson,  Sir  Richard  Willys,  being  created  a  baronet  by 
Charles  I  in  1646.  Burke’s  Extinct  Baronetage.  From  her  father,  Martin  ffooxe  or  ffolkes 

of  Westley,  in  Cambridgeshire,  descended  Martin  ffolkes,  Attorney  General  to  Katherine  of 

Braganza,  Queen  of  Charles  II,  who  married  Dorothy,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Sir  William 
Hovell  of  Hillington  in  Norfolk,  and  became  the  ancestor  of  a  line  of  Baronets  now  represented 
by  Sir  William  Hovell  ffolkes,  of  Hillington  Hall. 

As  has  been  pointed  out,  on  page  83,  Kirtling  adjoins  Cowling,  where  a  line  of  Hovells, 
kinsmen  of  the  knightly  family  of  Hovell  of  Wyverstone,  can  be  traced  from  1344  to  1563. 
See  Pedigree,  p.  77.  It  is  almost  certain  that  the  Cowling  and  Kirtling  Hovells  were  of 

the  same  stock. 


Inquisition  on  t\)t  beatb  of  Sljontas  Millolues,  1568. 

Inquisitio  capta  apud  villa  Cantebrigia . embris,  anno  regni  dne  Elizabeth  dei  gra 

Anglie  »tc.  Regine  [decimo]  post  mortem  Thome  Willowes  nup  de  Horningsey  in  com  pdco . 

per  sacramentu  Johis  Wright,  Johis  Baffarde  sen  <kc .  Qui  dicunt  qd  pdcus  Thomas 

MM 


8(5 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Willowes  fuit  seisitus  de  Man°io  de  Eyhall  alias  Highe  hall  in  3co  com  Cantebf . et 

Maneriu  illud  tenuit  de  dne  Regine  in  Capite  p  §uiciu  militate.  Predictus  Thomas  Willowes  sic 
seisitus  .....  die  Septembris  anno  dee  Regine  nunc  decimo  declarauit  testamentu  et  vltima 

voluntat  sua  in  Anglicanis  verbis .  The  fifte  daye  of  September  in  the  yere  of  oure 

Lorde  god  1568  &  in  the  ten  the  yere  of  Quene  Elizabeth  I  Thomas  Willowes  of  Horningsey  in 
the  dyoces  of  Elie  make  my  testament  T  last  will.  I  bequethe  my  sowle  to  god.  I  geve  to 
Johanne  my  wiff  iiijxxli  of  money  T  sixe  milche  kyne  T  twoo  horses  T  half  of  my  howsholde  stuff 
T  naperye  vppon  condicon  that  she  shall  clayme  no  thirdes  of  my  Manor  of  Eyhall.  I  geve 
to  George  my  sonne  eight  skore  poundes  to  be  payde  by  Thomas  my  sonne.  I  geve  to 

Elizabeth  my  daughter  C1'  to  be  payde  at  y®  daye  of  her  marryage  or  at  her  age  of  xxi  yeres. 
I  geve  to  Thomas  my  sonne  xij  carte  horse,  xij  milche  kyne,  my  oxen  ik  theire  yookes  xviij11 

shepe  <fec.,  &  all  other  necessarye  furniture  of  husbandrie.  I  will  ye  other  half  of  my  hushold 

stuff  <fc  naperye  to  be  equallie  devyded  emonges  my  three  children.  I  geve  to  George  Willowes 
my  brother  vu  it  to  his  childe  xl8.  To  three  children  of  Edwarde  Willowes  to  eyther  of  them 
xl3.  To  Edwarde  Hovelles  two  children,  eche  of  the  xl3.  To  James  Willesmores  fower  children, 
to  eche  of  them  xl8.  To  the  churche  of  Horningsey  iiju  vi8  viijd.  To  Elizabeth  Willesmore 
my  sister  vi11  in  recompence  of  that  coppeholde  lande  wch  my  mother  willed  her  to  have.  I 
make  Edwarde  Willowes  my  brother  <k  Thoms  ffoxe  my  executors  and  I  give  to  Edward 
Willowes  for  his  paynes  v1*  &  to  Thomas  ffoxe  iiju :  thes  beinge  witnesses ;  Richerd  Aunger, 
Wilim  Mordun,  WiHm  Hasell,  Richerd  Bridgman  &  others.  And  I  make  my  brother  George 

Willowes  supuisor.  I  devise  all  my  coppihold  lands  in  Hadstock  to  Johanne  my  wiff  for  terme 
of  her  lif — y®  remaynder  to  George  my  sonne.  I  devise  twoo  ptes  of  my  Manor  of  Eyhall  in 
three  ptes  to  Thomas  ffooxe  &  Edwarde  Willowes  vntill  Thomas  my  sonne  accomplishe  th’age  of 
xxi  yeres ;  yeildinge  therfore  towards  the  bringinge  vpp  of  my  saide  twoo  sonnes  xxh  by  y® 
yeare  <kc.  <kc.  Jurat  vlterius  dicunt  super  serm  suu  q3  ffdcus  Thoms  Willowes  obijt  vndecimo 
die  Septembr  anno  regni  dne  Elizabeth  decimo.  Et  qd  Thoms  Willowes  est  eius  filius  T  pximus 
heres,  etatis  quatuordec  anno£  <fc  amplius.  Inq.  p.  m.  4  [sic]  Eliz.  No.  51. 

This  document  being  much  damaged  its  date  is  supplied  from  the  Visus  Compoti  in  the 
Court  of  Wards.  Book  No.  7,  fo.  S8b.  The  will  of  Thomas  Willowes  was  proved  in  the 
Prerogative  Court  of  Canterbury  Octr  3d  1568.  P.C.C.  20  Babington. 

The  testator  married  the  widow  of  Stephen  Hovell  of  High  Hall,  Horningsea,  and  became 
by  her  the  ancestor  of  the  fine  old  Cavalier  family  of  Willis,  Baronets.  His  will  is  full  of 
suggestive  genealogy,  naming  as  it  does  Thomas  ffookes  or  ffolkes,  doubtless  his  wife’s  brother ; 
Edward  Hovell  his  wife’s  son ;  William  Morden,  whose  daughter  Edward  Hovell  married  ;  and 
Edward  Willowes,  probably  the  husband  of  Agnes  Hovell,  his  wife’s  daughter. 


Will  of  Jitartm  Jfolks,  1571. 

The  viith  daye  of  October,  1571,  I,  Martin  Folkes  of  Westley  in  the  countye  of 
Cambridge,  doe  make  this  phte  will.  I  bequeathe  to  William  Folkes  my  sonne  my  landes  and 
tenementes  sett,  lienge  and  being  in  Westlye  aforsaide  and  Boroughe  in  the  saide  county,  now 
in  his  teanure  and  occupacon,  he  to  paye  vnto  Thomas  Folkes  one  other  of  my  sonnes  Six 
scoare  tenne  poundes.  To  John  Folkes  my  sonne  my  howses,  landes  &c.  in  Newemarkett  in 


IIOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE  AND  ELSTREE. 


87 


Cambridge  and  Suff :  I  will  one  tenemente  in  borough  to  helpe  paye  the  taske  of  Westeley 
and  to  the  releife  and  comforts  of  the  poore  people  of  Westeley  and  boroughe.  If  it  should 
happenn  that  lente  be  put  downe  and  noe  lente  kepte,  the  monnye  to  be  paide  to  the  poore  at 
some  other  conveniente  tyme  in  the  yeare.  To  Thomas  Folkes  my  sonne  my  maser,  twoe 
silver  spoanes.  To  John  Folkes  my  sonne,  twoe  silver  spoanes,  my  best  greate  brasse  panne  ike. 
To  William  Folkes  my  sonne  three  silver  spoanes,  my  brasen  mortar  with  the  pestle  &c.  To 
euye  childe  of  the  said  Thomas,  William  and  John,  viB  viijd.  I  bequeathe  to  Joane  Willows  my 
daughter  fyve  poundes  :  To  Parnell  Clarke  my  daughter  fyve  poundes  and  my  pasture  in 
borough  which  I  purchaized  of  Christes  Colledge  in  Cambridge :  to  euye  childe  of  saide  J oan 
and  Pfiell  vis  viijd.  The  residewe  of  my  howsehoulde  stuffe  I  will  to  my  saide  fyve  childrenne 
equallie.  My  mynde  ys  that  John  shall  choose  the  furst  pte,  William  the  nexte,  Thomas  the 
thirde,  Joan  Willowes  the  fourthe  and  Parnell  Clarke  the  fyfte.  I  ordayne  my  three  sonnes 
executors ;  and  desire  Richarde  Alington  and  Thomas  Stutevyle  gentlemen  to  be  overseers  of 
this  my  will.  To  wytnes  Rawfl'e  Hill,  pson  of  Westeley,  William  Leche  the  writer  hereof,  Ac. 
Probatum  octavo  die  Julij  1572.  P.C.C.  24  Daper. 

The  testator  was  ancestor  of  the  Folkes  of  Rushbrook,  co.  Suffolk,  and  of  the  Ffolkes  of 
Hillington,  co.  Norfolk  Baronets.  See  “ffolkes  of  Rushbrook.” 


Mill  of  Militant  Jitorton,  1574. 

The  xxiiijth  of  Maye,  1574.  Wihm  Murdun  of  ffenditton  in  the  countye  of  Cambridge. 
To  Alice  my  wife  the  leace  of  my  howse  in  Cambridge  with  all  the  howsholdstuf  theare  remayning. 
I  giue  vnto  the  saide  Alice  forty  powndes,  the  best  siluer  goblet  and  the  best  silver  potte.  I 
will  that  Margaret  Jugge  liaue  the  Tenne  powndes  wch  her  father  did  gyue  her  by  his  will,  and 
other  Tenne  powndes  which  I  did  pmis  to  gyue  her  when  I  married  my  wife.  (Similar  bequests  to 
Thomas  Jugge  and  Jane  Jugge.)  Vnto  my  three  doughters  Elizabeth  Murdun,  Johan  Murdun 
and  Mary  Murdun  forty  powndes  a  peece  at  the  daye  of  their  manage  or  at  the  age  of  one 
and  twenty  yeres,  my  said  doughtors  to  be  in  choise  at  which  of  the  two  daies  they  will  haue 
yt.  I  will  that  Humfrey  Murdun  my  sonne  haue  one  hondreth  powndes  at  the  age  of  Two 
and  Twenty  yeres.  Vnto  Kdwarde  Murdun  my  sonne  all  my  howses,  londes,  meadowes  (&c.)  in 

the  towne  and  feildes  of  Yxnynge  in  Suffolke.  Also  I  give  vnto  Margaret  Howell  my  doughtr 

[The  name,  so  written,  has  been  altered  to  “  Hovell.”]  Twenty  powndes.  To  Katherine  Sell  my 
doughter  Twenty  powndes.  To  Wihm  Sell  my  godson  Twenty  shillings.  To  every  of  Edward 
Hovells  children  Tenne  shillings  a  peece.  I  will  that  Oliuer  Murdun  and  Henry  Murdun  my 
sonnes  haue  my  personage  at  Yxnyng  during  the  yeres  contayned  in  this  leace.  Alice  Revell 
my  sister.  Yf  it  fortune  that  ffraunces  Murdun  my  sonne  to  come  into  Englonde  and  doo  contynue 
heere  still  and  not  to  goo  beyonde  the  sea  any  more,  then  I  will  that  the  saide  ffraunces  haue 

the  one  half  of  the  personag  with  Oliver,  and  Henry  Murdun  my  sonne  to  haue  one  hondreth 

powndes  owte  of  the  saide  personage.  Vnto  the  poore  people  of  Yxnyng,  of  Ditton,  of  Hornyngsey. 
Vnto  George  Murdon  thirty  thre  shillinges  and  foure  pens  for  a  bullocke  which  I  killed.  Also 
I  giue  vnto  Thomas  Murdun  my  sonne  my  leaces  of  the  Manner  of  Biggyn,  with  all  the  croppe 
of  corne,  as  well  in  the  barnes  as  in  the  feeldes,  and  all  my  plate,  excepte  before  bequeathed, 
and  howsholde  stuf,  horses,  bullockes  and  all  other  Cattell,  even  as  I  doo  now  occupie  yt  my 


88 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES, 


self,  and  he  to  paie  my  legaces  and  debts.  I  will  that  Thomas  Murdun  my  sonne  doo  kepe 
Edward  Murdun  at  the  grammer  scoole  in  Cambridge  and  fynde  all  manner  of  things  necessary 
for  him  by  the  space  of  seven  yeres.  Also  I  will  that  Mary  Murdun  be  kepte  at  Cambridge  to 
learne  to  sewe  by  the  space  of  two  yeres.  I  will  that  Alice  my  wife  haue  hir  dwelling  and 
byding  at  Biggyn  for  her  self  and  her  children  by  the  space  of  one  year.  Ynto  Martyn  Revell. 
The  residue  of  all  my  goods  I  giue  vnto  Thomas  Murdun  my  sonne  whome  I  doo  ordayne  myne 
Executor. 

Probatum,  octauo  die  Julij,  1574.  Juramento  Thome  Murden  Executoris. 

P.C.C.  30  Martyn. 

From  Oliver  Morden,  of  Exning,  gentleman,  the  son  of  the  testator  and  brother  of  Margaret 
Hovell,  descended  Sir  William  Morden,  the  ancestor  of  Lord  Suffield,  who  was  created  a  baronet 
in  1745  and  took  the  name  of  Harbord.  See  Burke’s  Peerage. 


(Hill  of  Griiluartr  ffittUote,  1576. 

Edward  Willowse  of  Ixning  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  20th  May,  1576.  Unto  Agnes  my 
wife  the  farm  called  Howstars  during  the  remainder  of  the  lease.  Unto  my  sons  Edward  Willowse, 
Thomas  Willowse,  Henry  Willowse  and  Philip  Willowse,  to  each  of  them  thirty  pounds  when  they 
attain  their  several  ages  of  one  and  twenty  years.  The  residue  of  my  goods  I  give  unto  Agnes 
my  wife,  whom  I  appoint  my  sole  executrix.  And  I  make  my  brother  George  Willowes  and  my 
brother  Edward  Hovell  my  supervisors.  Probate  20th  Sept1'.  1576. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “Wroo,”  fo.  124. 


Saks  of  HJofall  lEantio  tn  Hurtling,  1584-1595. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cuf  diie  Regine  apud  Westrh  in  Octavis  Sci  Michis  anno 
regno^  Elizabeth  dei  gra  Angt  etc.  vicessimo  quinto  ....  Tn?  Wal?um  Pratt  quer  et 
Edwardum  Hovell  <k  Margaretam  vxem  eius  deforc  de  trigenta  acris  tre,  tribj  acris  prati  & 
sexdecim  acris  pasture  in  Kertlynge  ....  ]3dci  Edwardus  &  Margareta  recogn  ffdca  ten  esse  Jus 
ipius  Walti  vt  iH  que  idem  Wal?us  ftet  de  dono  j?dco£  Edwardi  &  Margarete,  Et  p  hac  recogn 
&c.  idem  Wal?us  dedit  jidcis  Edwardo  <k  Margarete  quadraginta  libras  sterlingo$.  Cantebf. 

Fines,  Cambridge  Mich.  25  and  26  Eliz. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  etc.  inter  Wal?um  Pratt  quer  et  Edwardum  Hovell  <k 
Margaretam  vxem  eius  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio,  vno  gardino,  vno  pomario,  duo  decim  acris  tre, 
quatuor  acris  prati  &  sexdecim  acris  pasture  in  Kertlynge.  Pro  recogn,  Warant,  fine  it  concordia 
idem  Wal?us  dedit  fldcis  Edwardo  it  Margarete  octoginta  libras  sterlingo^.  Cantebr. 

Fines,  Cambridge,  Micfi.,  28  and  29  Eliz. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE  AND  ELSTREE. 


89 


Hec  est  finalis  concordia  Ac.  inter  Walturn  Px-att  quer  et  Edwardum  Hovell  Juniorem 

deforc  de  vno  mesuagio,  vno  gardino,  vno  pomario,  quadraginta  &  duabj  acris  tre,  septem  acris 

prati,  &  triginta  &  duabj  acris  pasture  in  Kirtlynge.  .  .  .  Pro  recogn,  Warant,  fine  A 
concordia,  idem  Waltus  dedit  predco  Edwardo  centum  libi’as  Sterlingoj.  Cantebr. 

Fine,  Mich.,  32  and  33  Eliz. 

It  will  be  noted  that  the  estate  named  in  the  last  fine  is  the  sum  of  those  enumerated 

in  the  two  former  ones.  In  other  words  Edward  Hovell  junior  confirms  the  sales  previously 

effected  by  Edward  Hovell  senior  and  Margaret  his  wife. 


ffitill  of  H^nrn  Mestljoqje,  1599. 

The  two  and  twenteth  daye  of  August  1599,  Henrye  Westhorpe  of  Ixninge  in  the  countie 
of  Suff\  To  my  sonne  Ambi'ose  two  hundreth  poundes ;  one  hundred  poundes  of  which  shalbe 
delyvered  to  my  brother  Frannces  Westhropp  towardes  his  bringinge  vppe ;  provided  my  brother 
enter  into  sufficient  bonde  to  Olyver  Mordon  and  Olyver  Bridgman  to  repaye  to  my  sonne 
Ambrose  at  the  age  of  twentie  one  yeares  the  fore  sayde  some.  To  my  daughter  Martha  one 
hundred  markes.  To  Agnes  my  wief  one  hundred  poundes.  She  shall  make  a  sufficient 
acquaitance  to  my  Executors  of  a  bonde  of  eight  scoi’e  poundes  wherein  I  was  bounde  vnto 

her  in  her  widowhode,  which  bonde  was  delyvei’ed  to  my  brother  Hovell.  To  Edward  Willowes 

my  sonne  in  lawe  and  Thomas  Willowes  and  Harry  Willowes  and  Phillip  Willowes  and 
Margarett  Tayloi*.  To  the  poore  of  Ixninge  and  of  Stansfield  at  the  discretion  of  Abraham 
Westhi'op  and  John  Spari'ow.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  to  my  sonne  John  Westhrop  whome  I 
make  my  whole  Executor.  My  brother  Frannces  Westhrope  shall  have  the  execution  of  this 

will  if  I  dye  befoi’e  my  sonne  come  to  the  age  of  twentie  one  yeares :  then  my  said  sonne 

John  Westhrope  to  be  executor.  I  make  Olyver  Mordan  and  Olyver  Bi’idgma  sup  visors. 
Witnesses  Martyn  Warren,  Rector,  Syrnon  Foolkes,  Henry  Westhrope. 

Septimo  die  Novembris  1599  Emanavit  Comissio  Francisco  Westrope  fratri  Henrici  Westrope 
Ad  Administi’and  bona  Ac.  durante  minori  etati  Joins  Westropi  Executoris  in  testamenti  norat. 

P.C.C.  81  Kidd. 


Mill  of  (Bhiarft  lobell,  1605, 

The  Eight  day  of  June,  1605,  I  Edwai'd  Hovell  of  Burie  S6.  Edmund  in  the  Countie  of 
Suff,  being  sicke  in  bodie  but  of  good  minde  and  memorie  doe  make  my  will.  I  give  my  Soule 
to  Almightie  God  my  Creator  hopeing  for  Remission  of  my  sinnes  thi’oughe  the  merrittes  of  his 
Sonne  Jesus  Christ  my  Saviour.  I  give  unto  my  ffather  Edward  Hovell  and  my  mother  Margarett 
his  wiffe  duringe  their  naturall  lives,  One  hundred  poundes.  And  I  will  that  after  their  Deathes 
fowerscore  poundes  thereof  be  equallie  divided  betweene  my  twoe  Sisters  Katherine  and  Mary 
Hovell.  To  my  saide  sistei's  and  to  either  of  them  the  some  of  ffortie  poundes.  To  my  brother 
Stephen  Hovell  One  hundred  and  twentie  poundes.  Vnto  my  brother  Oliver  Hovell  my  house  in 
the  Whightinge  streate,  whei’ein  I  nowe  dwell,  to  him  and  his  heirs  for  ever ;  alsoe  the  somme 


90 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


of  fowerscore  poundes.  Vnto  the  fower  children  of  mj  brother  in  lawe  William  Yonge  wch  he 
hath  by  my  Sister  Phillip  ffourtie  poundes.  To  my  brother  Thomas  Hovell  my  Silver  Tonne  to 
drincke  in.  To  Thomas  Hovell  the  sonne  of  my  brother  Thomas  Hovell  at  his  age  of  sixteene 
yeares.  To  my  ffather  and  mother  one  yearelie  pencon  of  Tenn  poundes.  To  the  poore  of  Burie, 
Mildenhall  and  Barrowe.  All  the  rest  of  my  goodes  to  my  brothers  Richard  Hovell  and  Thomas 
Hovell,  who  I  make  Executors.  Doubts  to  be  determined  by  mine  unckle  Oliver  Moredon,  whom 
I  make  Supervisor.  My  plate  to  brothers  and  sisters  (named).  To  my  mother  my  wife’s  best  clothe 
gowne.  To  my  brother  Oliver  Hovell  my  Tayntors  in  the  Saltepetter  close,  with  my  presse  and 
parchmentes.  Probatum  septimo  die  Julij  1608  Juramento  Richi  Hovell  et  Thome  Hovell  executors. 

P.C.C.  72  Windebank. 


3® ill  of  JUdjarft  Hobdl,  1616. 

This  ffift  day  of  October  in  the  fourteenth  yeare  of  the  Reigne  of  our  Soveraigne  Lord 
James,  King  of  England  &c.  I  Richard  Hovell  of  Bury  Sl  Edmund,  clothier,  doe  make  this 
my  last  will.  My  body  I  bequeath  vnto  the  ground  willing  that  the  same  may  be  buried  in 
Sl  Marie’s  Church.  Vnto  Mary  Hovell  eldest  daughter  of  my  Brother  Olyver  Hovell  one 
hundred  poundes  vpon  the  day  of  her  mariage  or  at  the  age  of  sixteene  yeares  wch  shall  first 
happen.  To  Elizabeth  Hovell  and  Martha  Hovell  other  of  the  daughters  of  the  said  Oliver. 
Vnto  my  nephew  Olyver  Hovell  the  sonne  of  my  aforesaid  Brother  Six  skore  poundes  when  he 
shall  attayne  xxi  yeares.  My  nephew  Richard  Hovell  the  sonne  of  my  brother  Thomas  Hovell. 
My  niece  Elizabeth  Hovell  the  daughter  of  my  said  Brother  vpon  the  day  of  her  mariage. 

Vnto  my  brother  Stephen  Hovell  the  yeerely  sume  of  Tenn  poundes.  My  nephews  Richard 

Elsden  and  James  Elsden  sonnes  of  my  brother  Richard  Elsden,  and  my  neece  Margarett  Elsden. 

My  neece  Margarett  Petchey  and  nephew  Thomas  Petchey  sonne  and  daughter  of  Marke  Petchey. 

Vnto  the  poore  of  the  pai'ishe  of  St.  Maries  in  Bury  Tenn  poundes.  I  give  more  to  the  poore 
of  the  same  parishe  ffourty  shillinges  to  be  distributed  amongst  them  at  the  tyme  of  my 
buriall.  Vnto  Thomas  Mallowes  of  Bury  gent,  whom  I  make  supvisor  Twentie  nobles.  Ynto 
the  Preacher  of  the  parishe  of  Sfc  Maries  in  Bury  Tenn  poundes.  To  my  spynners  in  Barrow 
and  Lakenheath.  Executors  shall  bestowe  vpon  my  Brother  Stephen  Hovell  and  my  sisters 
Tenn  poundes  in  mourning  apparel].  I  doe  make  my  two  Brothers  Thomas  Hovell  and 
Olyver  Hovell  Executors.  Probatum  sexto  die  Novembris  1616  juramenti  Executorum. 

P.C.C.  110  Cope. 


Mill  of  ffiljrmtas  (Millis,  1625. 

Thomas  Willis  of  Horningsea  in  the  County  of  Cambridge,  Esquire,  made  his  will  nun¬ 
cupative  on  or  about  the  twelfth  of  Februai’v  1625  in  manner  following.  To  Elizabeth  my 
dear  wife  all  my  gsonall  estate  for  the  terme  of  her  life.  It  to  goe,  after  her  decease,  towards 
the  payment  of  my  sonne  Richard  his  debtes  and  the  bringing  vp  of  my  children,  and  towards 
my  grandchild  Elizabeth  her  porcon.  My  sonne  Mr.  Thomas  Willis  and  grandchild  Mr.  John 
Reinolds  to  be  executors.  Probatum  viij0  die  Martij,  1635. 

Ely  Consistory,  Liber  “Morley,”  fo.  282  b. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE  AND  ELSTREE. 


91 


The  testator  was  elder  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Willowes,  lord  of  the  manor  of  High 
Hall,  and  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  of  Martin  ffolkes  of  Westley,  and  widow  of  Stephen  Hovell  of 
Horningsea.  He  was  half  brother  of  Edward  Hovell  of  Exning,  who  died  at  Bury  St  Edmunds 
in  1608. 


ffiiarpt  frmtt  t be  ®tll  of  Rtcljarfc  ffils&nt,  1637. 

I  give  my  unckle  Petchy  xxs.  My  cosin  Margaret  Petchy  xx“  I  giue,  and  my  cosin 
Bell  and  Lidia  fortie  shillings  betwene  them.  But  now  these,  wth  the  some  of  that  wch  I 
haue  giuen,  and  the  some  of  those  thinges  that  are  in  the  vill,  I  bequeath  it  as  my  last  will 
and  testament  into  the  handf  of  my  [brother]  James  and  sister  Anne ;  but  one  lye  sick ;  if 
it  please  God  to  take  hyr  the  other  shall  haue  it.  But  they  shall  paie  twelve  tenn  pound  f 
out  of  it  to  my  mother  lawes  children  of  Mildenhall  to  be  parted  amongst  them  ....  and 
amongst  my  poore  neighbours  you  shall  giue  fortie  shillings.  And  Edward  Elsden  shall  haue 
tenn  poundf.  Ther  is  in  the  trunck  ....  pounds  of  money ;  and  my  vnckle  Oliver 
Hovell  shall  have  xx8  and  my  aunt  Hovell  shall  have  iij1' ;  and  my  three  cosins  Oliver,  Elizabeth, 
and  Sara  shall  haue  fortie  shillings  a  peece.  Proved  at  Bury,  28  Oct.  1637.  [Lib.  Gaell,  f.  198.] 
From  Bury  Wills  and  Inventories,  edited  by  Samuel  Tymms,  F.S.A.,  p.  169. 


Mill  of  'dtljomas  Umn,  1661. 

Thomas  Yeasy  of  Weekes  co.  Essex,  gent,  20  Septr.  1661.  To  be  buried  in  the  parish 
church  off  Weekes  by  my  ancesters.  Vnto  my  son  Robart  Yeasy  all  my  houses,  lands,  meadows, 
pastures,  etc.,  in  Weel^es  and  Bradfild  in  the  County  of  Essex.  Ynto  my  loueinge  wife  Elizabeth 
Veasy  twenty  pounds  a  yeare  during  her  naturall  life.  Ynto  my  son  Thomas  Veasy  twenty  pounds 
a  yeare,  vntill  such  time  as  he  has  compleated  the  yeares  that  he  should  comence  Master  off  Arts, 
and  no  longer.  My  Manor  house  commonly  called  Pond  hall  with  ffresh  mill  lands,  etc.  Vnto  my 
sonnij  law  Theophilus  Peirse  of  Frinton  in  the  said  County,  clerke,  fourscore  and  seuen  pounds 
according  to  my  bond :  also  I  give  said  sonnij  law  one  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  Ann  Veasy  my 
daughter  two  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  my  son  Robart  Veasy,  being  my  sole  executor,  all  my  goods 
and  Chattells,  only  such  things  as  weare  my  deare  wife’s  before  1  married  her  excepted.  I  chouse 
my  deare  and  loueing  wife  my  supervisor.  Probatu  fuit  huioi  testm  apud  Colcestr  27  die  Nons 
1661  iuramento  Robti  Vesey  exris.  Arch.  Colch.  Wills  1660-1.  No.  109. 

The  testator  was  son  of  William  Vesey,  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Wix  Abbey,  by  Mary 
daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Bedingfield,  of  Ditchingham,  co.  Norfolk,  Knight.  The  baptisms  of  Mary, 
Robert,  Anne,  and  Thomas,  the  children  of  Thomas  and  Martha  Vesey  are  entered  in  the  parish 
registers  of  Wix  from  1638  to  1643.  Martha  Hovell,  wife  of  Thomas  Vesey,  was  buried  there 
5  Nov.  1644.  Elizabeth  Vesey,  mentioned  in  the  will,  was  evidently  a  second  wife. 


92 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


5®ill  of  ©film*  Hafoll,  1667. 

Oliver  Hovell  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s  7th  July  in  the  8th  year  of  Charles  the  Second  (1667). 
First  I  resigne  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  almighty  God,  not  doubting  but  of  his  infinite 

mercye  through  the  bloud  of  Jesus  Christ  he  will  receive  the  same  into  his  glory.  And  for  my 

body  I  comit  it  to  the  earth  in  sure  and  certaine  hope  of  resurrection  at  the  generall  day  of 
blisse  and  imortality.  I  giue  and  bequeath  to  Richard  Hovell  my  sonne  my  messuage  in  Bury : 

also  £200  at  his  age  of  twenty  one  years  To  Oliver  Hovell  my  sonne  twelve  acres  of  arrable 

land  :  also  £200  at  his  age  of  twenty  one  years.  William  Hovell  my  eldest  sonne.  Elizabeth 
Hovell  my  mother.  To  Thomas  Hovell  my  youngest  sonne  £300.  To  Mary  my  daughter  £200. 
Luke  Curtis  of  Wickhambrook  co  Suffolk,  gent.,  my  brother  in  law.  and  my  sister  Sarah  Andrews 
to  be  executors.  Witnesses,  John  Heigham  and  Thomas  Brown. 

Proved  10th  February,  167f.  Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1673,  fo.  489. 


Mill  of  Hub  Curtis,  1680. 

Luke  Curtis  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s  gent  22  Septr  1680.  To  Luke  Curtis  my  grandchild, 
son  of  William  Curtis  my  eldest  son :  Luke  Curtis,  son  of  Luke  Curtis  my  son :  Luke  Abbott, 

son  of  Thomas  Abbott  my  son  in  law ;  Anne  and  Mary  Hovell,  daughters  of  Mary  Hovell ; 

and  to  Elizabeth  Curtis,  daughter  of  said  William  Curtis ;  each  to  have  the  money  at  their 

several  ages  of  one  and  twenty  years. 

To  Joseph  Curtis  my  son,  who  is  now  presumed  to  be  in  parts  beyond  the  seas  £100,  if 
not  dead  at  my  decease.  To  John  Curtis  my  son  £300. 

To  my  daughter  Sarah  Curtis  £20,  for  a  ring.  To  William  Curtis  my  son  my  biggest 

guilt  spoone.  To  Luke  my  son  one  Iron  backe  and  my  other  guilt  spoone  having  a  date  engraven 
upon  it.  To  Mary  Hovell,  widow,  my  daughter,  my  silver  beaker  and  20s  for  a  ring. 

And  whereas  Oliver  Hovell,  my  son  in  law,  by  his  will  gave  certain  legacies  amounting  to 

£900  among  his  children,  and  I  was  his  executor,  and  do  stand  charged  with  the  payment  of 
the  same,  I  now  therefore  give  to  my  daughter  and  executrix  so  much  of  my  estate  as  will 
amount  to  £900  with  which  to  pay  the  legacies  under  said  Oliver’s  will. 

My  daughter  Mary  Hovell  to  be  sole  executrix.  She  to  be  bound  to  my  son  William  Curtis 

and  my  son  in  law  Thomas  Abbott  in  £3,000  for  the  performance  of  this  will.  Witnesses,  James 

Heigham,  John  Tyllott  and  M.  A.  Burrough.  Probate  14  January  168^. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1680.  fo.  710. 


Will  of  Jilari]  (llmt I),  1685. 

Will  of  Mary  Clench,  of  Ipswich,  co  Suffolk,  widow,  dated  26  January  1684-5  : — 

I  bequeath  to  my  sister  Elizabeth  Smyth  of  St.  Edmonds  Bury  £5.  To  my  cosines 
William,  Richard,  Thomas,  Mary  and  Ann  Hovell  a  gold  Ring  of  tenn  shillings  price  apeice. 
To  my  cosines  Christopher  Andrewes  and  John  Wade  senr.  a  gold  ring  of  tenn  shillings  price 
apeice.  To  my  cosine  Sarah  Bayfield  my  silver  Tankard.  To  my  cosine  John  Wade  junr.  my 


HOVELL  OF  W YVERSTON E  AND  ELSTREE. 


98 


silver  plate.  To  my  cosine  Elizabeth  Wade  my  silver  porringer.  To  my  cosine  Mary  Wade  my 
wedding  ring  and  silver  sugar  dish.  To  my  cosine  Sarah  Wade  one  suite  of  damaske  lynnen 
and  two  silver  spoons.  To  my  cosines  Ann,  Robert  and  Benjamine  Wade  two  silver  spoones  a 
peice.  All  these  legacies  within  here  expressed  by  the  name  of  Wade  (himselfe  only  excepted) 
are  the  children  of  my  cosine  John  Wade  of  Ipswich.  I  appoint  as  sole  executrix  my  sister 
Sarah  Andrewes.  (Signed)  Mary  Clench.  Witnesses :  Elizabeth  Manning,  Robert  Manning. 

Proved  at  Ipswich  22  July  1691  by  the  executrix. 

Ipswich  Wills,  1691,  fo.  224. 


Will  of  Militant  f  obeli,  1686. 

William  Hovell  of  Bury  Sfc  Edmund’s,  1st  July  1686.  Vnto  Rachell  my  wife  plate, 
household  stuff  Ac.  vntill  Oliver,  my  eldest  sonne  be  fourteen  years  of  age.  She  then  to  pay 
vnto  Richard  Hovell  my  brother  the  full  value  of  such  household  stuff  Ac.,  who  shall  repay  it 
to  the  said  Oliver  when  twenty  one  with  interest.  Vnto  the  said  Oliver  a  field  in  Bury  called 
Westfield  containing  twelve  acres ;  also  a  barn  Ac.  neere  Whiteing  streete.  Personal  estate  to 
be  sold.  Vnto  said  Oliver  my  sonne  two  hundred  poundes  at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty 
yeares.  To  William  Hovell  my  second  sonne  two  hundred  poundes.  To  Barnard  Carter  Hovell 
my  youngest  sonne  two  hundred  poundes.  Richard  Hovell  my  brother  to  have  their  education. 
My  deare  mother  Mary  Hovell  of  Bury,  widow.  My  brother  in  law  William  Blate  of  the  Citty 
of  London,  silkeman,  and  Mary  his  wife.  To  Thomas  Hovell  and  Anne  Hovell  my  brother  and 
sister.  My  father  in  law  Barnard  Carter  of  Sudbury  and  brother  Richard  Hovell  of  Bury  Sk 
Edmunds  to  be  Executors,  and  William  Curtis  of  Wickhambrooke  Gent,  and  Thomas  Abbott  of 
Cavendish,  supervisors.  Probatum  vndecimo  die  Martij,  1686  Juramento  Richardi  Hovell,  Barnard 
Carter  Hovell  [sic]  alter  executori  renunc.  Probatum  vndecimo  Martij  1690  juramento  Barnard 
Carter  unius  executorum.  P.C.C.  38  Foote. 


Will  of  Jltaro  irobell,  1694- 

The  eight  and  twentyeth  day  of  July  1694  I  Mary  Hovell  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Widow, 
doe  make  this  my  last  Will  and  Testament.  Such  estate  as  the  Lord  hath  lent  me  I  dispose 
thereof  as  folio weth.  To  my  daughter  Anne  Hovell  sixty  pounds,  and  alsoe  the  interest  of 

Joshua  Curtis’  sixty  pounds ;  twenty  pounds  of  which  being  her  owne  money.  Alsoe  I  give  to 

her  my  silver  beaker  and  porringer,  one  trunke  of  lynnen  marked  with  A :  H :  my  chest  of 

drawers  Ac.  To  my  grandchildren  Oliver,  William  and  James  Blatt  to  each  of  them  one  of 
my  best  silver  spoones.  I  give  the  thirty  pounds  in  my  son  Richard  Hovells  hands  towards 
the  payment  of  my  debts.  I  nominate  my  sonnes  Richard  Hovell  and  Thomas  Hovell  to  be  the 
Executors  of  this  will.  Sealed  published  and  declared  to  be  the  will  of  the  said  Mary  Hovell 
in  the  presence  of  Sarah  Curtis,  Elizabeth  Puijs,  Mr.  Burrough. 

Probatum  quinto  die  Julij  1695  Juramento  Richardi  Hovell  filij  et  unius  Executorum. 

Reservata  tamen  potestate  similem  Comiien  faciend  Thomse  Hovell  alteri  execut  in  dicto  Testamento 

nominal  cum  venerit  eandem  petitur.  P.C.C.  116  Irby. 

N 


94 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  JUrljdi  Carter,  1708. 

I,  Rachel  Carter,  late  of  Sudbury  in  the  County  of  Suffolk  and  now  of  Wormingford  in 
the  County  of  Essex,  widow,  do  make  this  my  last  will  in  manner  following.  I  commend  my 
soul  into  the  hands  of  Almighty  God.  I  dispose  of  my  temporal  estate  as  followeth :  (viz*.) 
I  give  to  my  loving  daughters  Rachell  Hovell,  widow,  and  Elizabeth  Potter  the  wife  of  Mr.  John 

Potter,  ten  shillings  apeice  to  buy  them  a  mourning  Ring  each,  in  full  of  all  they  may  claim 

to  have  to  any  part  of  my  estate.  To  my  grandson  Barnard  Carter  Hovell  all  those  goods, 
brewing  vessells,  coppers  and  householdstuff  which  belong  to  me  and  now  are  in  the  possession 
of  Jeremiah  Barnard  in  Sudbury.  All  the  rest  of  my  personall  estate  I  give  to  my  beloved 
kinsman  Thomas  Everard,  and  my  beloved  granddaughter  Elizabeth  Everard  his  wife,  to  their 
owne  use  and  disposall  absolutely.  Which  said  Thomas  and  Elizabeth  Everard  I  constitute 
executors  of  this  my  will ;  desiring  them  to  see  my  Body  decently  interred  in  my  late  husband’s 
Tomb.  Witness  my  hand  and  seal  the  7th  of  January  1708.  Probatum  sexto  die  Junij  1712 
juramento  Thome  Everard  unius  Executorum.  Reservata  potestati  Elizabethse  Everard  alteri 
Executorum.  P.C.C.  110  Barnes. 

Rachel  Carter  was  the  widow  of  Barnard  Carter,  sometime  Mayor  of  Sudbury,  who  died  in 

1705,  aged  74.  He  was  the  son  of  Barnard  Carter  the  elder,  of  Sudbury,  gentleman,  who  by 

his  will  (P.C.C.  174  Mico),  dated  19th  January  1664,  devised  lands  and  messuages  in  Bures 
St.  Mary,  Little  Cornard,  Assington  and  Sudbury  in  Suffolk,  and  in  Alphamston,  Twynsted,  Otten 
Belchamp,  Orington,  Bulmer  and  Ballingdon,  co.  Essex,  many  of  which  seem  to  have  descended 
to  Oliver  Hovell  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  his  great  grandson,  who  died  in  February  173|. 


Mill  of  fUcbarft  ijobdl,  1716 

The  ffive  and  Twentieth  day  of  January,  1716,  I  Richard  Hovell  of  Bury  S*  Edmund’s, 
gent.,  declare  this  my  last  Will  and  Testament.  I  give  unto  my  Loving  Brother  Mr.  Thomas 
Hovell  all  my  lands  in  Tibbenham  Burston  and  Gissing  in  the  County  of  Norfolk  and  my 
messuage  in  Bury  S*  Edmund’s  wherein  I  dwell.  Unto  my  Loving  Sister  Mrs.  Anne  Symonds, 
Widow,  for  the  Terme  of  her  life,  my  meadows  and  pasture  ground  in  Bury  S*  Edmonds  near 
Stampford  Bridge,  and  after  her  decease  unto  my  Nephew  Oliver  Hovell :  Unto  my  said  Nephew 

my  messuage  and  lands  in  Badwell  Ash  and  Walsham  le  Willows  and  after  his  decease  vnto 

Richard  Hovell  his  eldest  son,  Chargable  in  their  respective  hands  with  the  payment  of 
Thirty  pounds  a  year  unto  my  Nephew  Oliver  Blatt  for  term  of  his  life :  To  my  said  Nephew 
Oliver  Hovell  my  messuage  and  ffarme  in  Wiverston,  my  messuage  in  Bury  S*  Edmonds  in  the 
occupation  of  Thomas  Giles  and  alsoe  my  shopps  in  Newmarkett  in  the  said  County  of  Suffolk. 
Unto  William  Hovell,  son  of  my  nephew  Oliver  Hovell  my  three  meadows  in  S'  James’s  parish — 
Bury  S*  Edmonds,  To  my  sister  Anne  Symonds  three  hundred  pounds.  To  my  said  nephew 

Oliver  Hovell  one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  said  nephew  Oliver  Blatt  three  hundred  pounds. 

To  said  William  Hovell  son  of  my  nephew  Oliver  Hovell  one  hundred  pounds.  To  Elizabeth 
Hovell  daughter  of  the  said  Oliver  Hovell  two  hundred  pounds.  To  my  niece  Anne  Symonds 
daughter  of  my  sister  Symonds  seaven  hundred  pounds.  To  my  nephew  John  Symonds  son  of 
my  said  sister  Symonds  ffour  hundred  pounds.  To  my  nephew  William  Hovell  of  Norwich  one 


JIOVELL  OF  WY VERSTON E  AND  ELSTREE. 


95 


hundred  and  flifty  pounds.  To  Thomas  Hovell  son  of  my  late  deceased  nephew  Barnard  Hovell 
two  hundred  pounds.  To  Ann  Hovell  and  Rachel  Hovell,  daughters  of  the  said  Barnard  Hovell, 
two  hundred  pounds  a  peice.  To  William  Blatt  my  nephew  one  hundred  pounds.  My  kinsman 
Mr.  James  Higham.  To  twenty  poor  widows  in  Bury  Sfc  Edmunds  ten  shillings  apeice  and  to 
four  poor  Boys  in  Bury  ffive  pounds  apeice  for  the  binding  them  out  apprentices.  All  the  rest 
of  my  goods  to  my  said  Brother  Thomas  Hovell  whom  I  do  make  sole  executor.  Probatum 
vicesimo  primo  die  Novembris  1718,  Juramento  Thome  Hovell.  P.C.C.,  216  Tenison. 


Mill  of  OMtbn-  foMI,  1722. 

Oliver  Hovell  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  gentleman,  31  Dec.  1722.  My  ffarm  in  Horningsherth 
it  Nowton  to  Elizabeth  my  wife  during  the  life  of  Rachel  Hovell  my  mother ;  then  to  William 
Hovell  my  sou.  To  said  William  lands  in  Bury  St.  Edmund’s  held  of  the  Manor  of  Eornham. 
To  Thomas  Hovell  my  son  my  ffarm  in  Cornard,  Little  Bures  &  Assington,  and  messuage  in 
Wyverston.  To  my  wife  for  life  the  messuage  I  dwell  in.  To  Elizabeth  Hovell  my  daughter 
messuages  in  Otten  Belsham  co.  Essex.  Other  messuages  in  Bury  to  my  wife.  The  shopps  in 
Newmarket  to  be  sold.  Wife  and  mother  to  be  executors.  Probate  1  Feb.  1731  to  Elizabeth 
Hovell  the  relict.  Arch.  Sudb.,  Clagett  III,  fo.  47. 


Will  of  £«bcll  foticll,  1725. 

Rachel  Hovel  of  Bury  Sfc  Edmund’s,  widow,  21st  Octr.  1723.  I  give  to  Thomas  Hovel 

my  grandson  (son  of  my  late  son  Barnard  Carter  Hovel)  and  to  his  heirs,  my  messuage  in 

little  Cornard  in  Suffolk,  with  all  the  lands  belonging.  To  my  grandson  Barnard  Carter  Hovel 

£150  at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  years.  To  my  granddaughter  Ann  Hovel  my  Diamond 

Ring  and  all  my  plate,  furniture,  <fcc.  All  the  residue  to  be  equally  divided  amongst  the  said 
Thomas  and  Ann  Hovel  and  my  granddaughter  Rachell  Hovell,  share  and  share  alike,  at  their 
respective  ages  of  one  and  twenty  years.  I  do  nominate  and  appoint  my  son  Oliver  Hovell 
and  my  Kinsman  the  Reverend  Mr  John  Symonds,  Executors  of  this  my  will.  Proved  in  the 
Archdeacon’s  Court  of  Sudbury,  1724. 

The  Rev.  John  Symonds,  D.D.,  was  the  only  son  of  John  Symonds  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s 
by  his  wife,  Ann,  daughter  of  William  Hovell  of  the  same  place.  He  was  Rector  of  Hornings¬ 
herth  and  Nowton,  and  Preacher  of  St.  Mary’s,  Bury.  He  married  Mary,  daughter  and 
ultimately  coheir  of  Sir  Thomas  Spring,  of  Pakenham,  Baronet,  by  Merelina,  his  wife,  fifth 
daughter  and  coheir  of  Thomas,  Lord  Jermyn,  nephew  of  the  Earl  of  St.  Albans.  Through  the 
marriage  of  Ann  Hovell  with  John  Symonds  the  following  families  and  persons,  amongst  many 
others,  descend  from  the  Hovells  of  Bury  and  Wyverstone : — The  Heighams  of  Hunston, 
the  Tindals  of  Hanningfield,  the  Bosanquets  of  Claysmore,  the  late  Admirals  Sir  William  and 
Sir  Thomas  Symonds,  the  Wests  of  Ruthin  Castle,  the  Princess  Henry  of  Pless  and  her  sister, 
the  Duchess  of  Westminster. 

N2 


96 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  ®UjafotI)  Hobdl,  1745. 

Elizabeth  Hovell  of  Lavenham  in  the  County  of  Suffolk  widow,  16th  April  1745.  My 
messuage  with  garden  and  piece  of  land  in  Prentice  Street  Lavenham,  now  occupied  by  Thomas 
Hovell  my  son,  I  bequeath  to  him  and  Hannah  his  wife  for  their  lives,  and  then,  in  default 
of  issue  of  their  bodies,  to  my  granddaughter  Elizabeth  Hovell  and  her  heirs  for  ever.  If  said 
Elizabeth  dies  without  issue  before  she  come  into  possession,  then  I  leave  it  to  Jane  Philippa 
Hovell  another  granddaughter.  To  my  said  son  Thomas  Hovell  four  hundred  pounds  due  from 
my  son  in  law  Edward  Browne.  Said  son  Thomas  Hovell  to  be  sole  executor  and  residuary 
legatee.  Witnesses  Susan  Cordwell,  John  Squire,  Thomas  Smythies.  Proved  12th  July  1756  by 
the  Executor.  Norwich  Consistory,  Wills,  1756,  fo,  143. 


Will  of  William  iobell,  1768. 

William  Hovell  of  Bad  well  Ash  co.  Suffolk  Esqns,  19  Aug.  1768.  My  messuages,  lands 
&c.  in  Suffolk  to  be  sold.  To  the  children  of  my  daughter  now  the  wife  of  Mr  Ellis  Pett  £100 
each  at  their  respective  ages  of  21  years.  My  daughter  Elizabeth  their  mother  My  four 
youngest  children,  Arabella  Catharine,  Ann,  Maria  and  John  £400  each,  when  21,  or  on  day 
of  marriage.  The  overplus  to  William  Hovell  my  eldest  son.  My  executors,  John  Dent  of 
Langham,  gent.,  Mr.  Alexander  Moss  of  Badwell  Ash,  &  John  Cracknell  the  elder  of  Walsham, 
to  each  of  these  £10.  To  my  daughter  Jane  Philippa  wife  of  Mr  Thomas  Manning  of  Mendlesham 
£10,  I  having  provided  for  her  in  my  lifetime.  Probate  26  July  1769,  oath  of  Executors. 

Arch.  Sudb.,  Dalton  II II,  fo.  468b. 

St.  John’s  College  Admissions,  Cambridge.  “William  Hovell,  son  of  Oliver  Hovell,  gent., 
born  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  bred  there  under  a  kinsman ;  admitted  a  Pensioner  of  St.  John’s 
College  23  Dec.  1732,  at  17  years,  (tutor,  Mr  Leake);  readmitted  as  a  Fellow  Commoner, 
19  January  I73f,  (tutor,  Mr.  Williams);  M.B.  1740.” 

The  wife  of  the  testator  was  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Alexander  Burrell,  M.A., 
Rector  of  Adstock,  Bucks,  and  Prebendary  of  Lincoln,  who  was  of  the  ancient  Visitation  family 
of  Burrell  of  Cuckfield  in  Sussex,  now  represented  by  Lord  Gwydyr  and  Sir  Merrick  Raymond 
Burrell,  Baronet.  Her  cousin  and  namesake,  Elizabeth  Burrell,  daughter  of  Peter  Burrell,  of 
Beckenham,  in  Kent,  and  sister  of  Sir  Peter  Burrell,  Bart.,  of  a  younger  branch  of  the  family, 
married  (first)  the  Duke  of  Hamilton,  and  (secondly)  the  Marquess  of  Exeter,  whose  previous 
marriage  to  Sarah  Hoggins,  one  of  the  most  delightful  romances  of  the  peerage,  has  been 
immortalized  by  Tennyson  in  his  “  Lord  of  Burleigh.” 


Mill  of  JoI)tt  ISootn,  1775. 

John  Booty,  heretofore  of  Ingham  and  now  of  Fornham  All  Saints  in  the  county  of 
Suffolk,  gentleman,  this  fifth  day  of  February  1773.  Executors  to  lay  out  £200  to  purchase 
annuity  which  I  direct  them  to  pay  to  Christopher  Nickols  a  Blind  Boy.  Executors  to  put  out 
at  interest  £800,  and  to  pay  the  yearly  interest  unto  my  sister  Ann  Squire.  Also  I  give 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE  AND  ELSTREE. 


97 


unto  Martin  Cocksedge  son  of  Mr  Thomas  Cocksedge  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  £700,  and  the  like 
sum  unto  Thomas  Cocksedge  his  brother.  Unto  my  nephews  John  Squire  and  Charles  Squire 
£700  a  piece.  Unto  my  nephews  Franklin  Squire,  clerk,  Edward  Squire,  Thomas  Squire  and 
Edmund  Squire  £800  a  piece.  To  my  niece  Ann  Squire  £800,  and  to  my  niece  Hannah 
Squire  £800,  and  to  my  niece  Frances  the  wife  of  John  Worlledge  of  Timworth  £500,  and  to 
my  nephew  William  Hovel  £200.  To  my  said  nephew  William  Hovel  and  to  his  heirs  for 
ever,  my  messuages,  lands,  tenements,  Ac.,  at  Wiverstone  and  Westhorpe,  subject  to  the  payment 
of  annuity  of  £30  unto  my  sister  Hannah  his  mother  during  her  life.  If  said  nephew  William 
Hovell  shall  dye  before  he  attains  his  age  of  twenty  one  years,  without  issue,  executors  to  make 
sale  of  said  messuage  and  to  apply  the  moneys  arising  from  such  sale  to  purposes  herein  after 
mentioned.  Executors  to  sell  my  messuages  in  Reed  and  Brockley,  co  Suffolk,  and  all  my 
messuages  and  lands  holden  of  the  Manors  of  Chedburgh  with  Arneborows  and  Bradfield  St. 
George ;  and  the  moneys  arising  from  these  sales  shall  be  applyed  towards  the  payment  of  my 
debts  and  legacies.  All  the  rest  of  my  goods  and  money  not  disposed  of  I  give  to  the  before 
mentioned  sons  and  daughters  of  my  sister  Ann  Squire,  viz1  John,  Charles,  Franklin,  Edward, 
Thomas  and  Edmund  Squire,  Bridget  Dalton  the  wife  of  William  Dalton,  Ann  and  Hannah 
Squire  and  Frances  Worlledge  equally.  I  desire  to  be  buried  in  Lackford  Churchyard  at  the 
east  end  of  my  late  ffather’s  grave,  and  I  do  appoint  Edward  Coldham  and  William  Dalton  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds  Executors  of  this  my  will  and  Testament.  (Refers  to  the  trouble  he  had 
occasioned  to  the  said  William  Dalton,  and  the  great  care  he  and  Bridget  Dalton  his  wife  had 
taken  of  him  during  his  illness.)  Proved  22d  May  1773  by  Edward  Coldham  and  William 
Dalton. 

P.C.C.  194,  Stevens. 

The  Chancery  Proceedings  in  Moseley  contra  Hovell,  1777  ( Chancery  Proceedings  1758 — 1800, 
No.  lf.69),  recite  that  William  Hovell,  John  Booty’s  nephew,  had  been  represented  by  his  father 
Thomas  Hovell,  gent.,  during  his  minority,  but  that  he  had  come  to  the  full  age  of  twenty  one 
years  before  the  Court  Baron  of  the  Manor  of  Wyverstone  held  on  the  11th  of  March,  1776. 


Hoinll  ®rttms  in  tljc  fenhtg  Hegisters. 

1562.  Katherine  Hovell  buried. 

1564.  The  .  15  .  Day  of  October  was  christened  Edward  willowes :  george  willows  and  Edward 
hovell  the  godfathers,  and  good  wife  garnet,  henrie  garnets  wyfe  the  godmother. 

1567.  The  .  5  .  of  Marche  was  Christened  Thomas  Cooke  sonne  of  Peter  Cooke :  Thomas  Mason 

the  younger  &  thomas  grigge  the  godfathers,  and  Margaret  hovell  wyfe  of  Edward 

hovell  the  godmother. 

1569.  Rycharde  sonne  of  Edward  Hovell  Xtened  25  March  :  Rycharde  Drurie  &  Wilim  Bridgeman 
the  godfathers,  and  Elizabeth  Willowes  the  godmother. 

1571.  Stevene  sonne  of  Edward  Hovell  Xtend  23  March  :  Oliver  Morden  godfather  and  Katherine 
Morden  the  godmother. 

1573.  Thomas  sonne  of  Edward  Hovell  Xtend  7  June. 

1574.  William  sonne  of  Edward  Hovell  Xtend  10  March. 

1601.  Edward  Hovell  married  Ann  Chenerie  18  Nov. 


98 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Inscription,  (Srcgorp's,  ^niilmrg. 

On  Table  Monument  in  the  churchyard : — 

Here  lyeth  ye  Body  of  Barnard  Carter,  Gent,  sometime 
Mayor  of  Sudbury,  who  departed  this  life  May  22,  1705, 
Aged  74  years. 

Here  lyeth  ye  Body  of  Barnard  Carter  Hovell, 

Who  dyed  Sept.  ye  2.r)th,  1716,  aged  31  years.  '  Also  Rachel 
&  William  his  children  who  died  young. 


Inscription,  S>t.  JKarp’s  (Hljnrclj,  ®nrp  Cimmt&s. 

On  a  flat  stone  in  or  near  the  passage  to  Nottingham’s  porch : — 

Here  lyeth  the  Body  of  |  Rich.  Houell,  Gent.  | 

Sometime  Alderman  of  this  Burgh  | 

Who  departed  this  life  | 

Dec.  ye  29th  1717  |  aged  57  years. 

Here  also  lyeth  the  Body  of  |  Tho.  Houell,  Gent.  | 

Sometime  Alderman  of  this  Burgh  | 

Who  departed  this  life  | 

Octr  ye  3rt  1723  1  aged  58  years. 


Inscription  on  Jltomunent  in  ^ftstock  ©banccl,  Uncks. 

Sacred  to  the  memory  of 
The  Revd.  Alexander  Burrell,  A.M. 

Who  was  50  years  Rector  of  this  Parish 
And  of  Puttenham  in  Hertfordshire. 

He  died  the  8th  March,  1771. 

In  the  85th  year  of  his  age. 


In  this  Chancell  also  are  deposited 
the  remains  of  Elizabeth  Burrell, 
Wife  of  the  said  Alexander  Burrell, 
Who  died  in  July  1749, 

Aged  60  years. 


HOVELL  OF  WYYERSTONE  AND  ELSTREE. 


99 


And  also  the  body  of 
Elizabeth  Hovell,  wife  of 
William  Hovell  Esqr, 
of  Badwell  Ash  in  Suffolk, 
Daughter  of  the  said 
Alexander  and  Elizabeth  Burrell, 
Who  died  in  October,  1764, 
Aged  52  years. 

Arms  and  Crest.  Burrell  of  Cuckfield, 


Inscription  in  tlj e  (tinted)  of  laMoril  Jhl). 

On  black  marble  gravestone  in  the  Chancel. 

In  memory  of  |  William  Hovell  Esquire  |  who  departed  this  life  | 
the  18th  July  1769  |  aged  56  years.  | 

Also  of  his  daughter  |  Jane  Phillippa,  wife  of  Mr.  John  Manning 

of  Mendlesham.  | 

Obt.  March  1770,  aged  31  years. 

Arms  and  Crest  of  Hovell. 

It  is  greatly  to  be  regretted  that  the  fine  Armorial  gravestone  which  formerly  lay  above 
the  remains  of  William  Hovell  and  other  members  of  his  family,  in  Badwell  chancel,  was 
removed  during  the  restoration  of  the  church.  What  was  done  with  it  is  unknown.  Davy 
and  other  antiquarians  had,  fortunately,  copied  it,  or  all  local  record  of  those  whom  it 
commemorated  would  have  been  utterly  lost. 


Inscription  on  Altar  ®omb  at  Mnbcrstonc. 

Sacred  to  the  Memory  of  Mary  wife  of  William  Hovell,  formerly  of  this  Parish,  who 
departed  this  life  5th  of  March  1806,  aged  47  years. 

Also  of  Hannah  Maria  their  daughter.  She  died  the  27th  of  July  1807,  aged  24  years. 

Also  of  five  of  their  children  who  died  in  their  infancy. 

Also  of  Ann,  wife  of  Thomas  Hovell  of  Bacton  in  this  County,  Attorney  at  Law,  mother 
of  the  above  William  Hovell.  Her  remains  are  interred  in  the  Chancel  of  this  Church.  She 
died  the  7th  of  February,  1777,  aged  61  years. 


100 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Jnscrijitimt  on  Okabestone  at  ffiljeltaljmn. 

Elizabeth 
Daughter  of 

William  Hovell  Esquire 
of  Wyverstone,  Suffolk. 

Died  at  Cheltenham 
The  12th  April  1884 
Aged  93  years. 


Jnsmptions,  Jiajmr  CaiMral,  $Lzi o  £ealanir. 

In  Loving  Memory  of 
Hugh  de  St.  Croix  Hovell, 

Eldest  son  of  De  Berdt  Hovell,  Dean  of  Waiapu, 

And  Emily  his  wife, 

Who  fell  asleep  at  Eastertide,  1887, 

In  the  eleventh  year  of  his  age. 

“  We  asked  life  of  Thee, 

And  Thou  gavest  him  a  long  life, 

Even  for  ever  and  ever.” 


In  Memory  of 

Charles  Henry  John  Hovell,  M.R.C.S. 

(son  of  Charles  Hovell,  Surgeon,  R.N., 
of  Wyverstone,  Suffolk,  and  Canterbury,  Kent,) 

Surgeon  of  the  3rd  Waikato  Regt.  during  the  New  Zealand  War, 
And  Brigade-Surgeon  Lieutenant-Colonel, 

Who  died  at  sea,  14  March  1893,  aged  78  years, 

And  was  buried  in  Mid-Ocean. 

Also  of  Sarah,  his  wife, 

Who  died  24  March  1868,  aged  39  years, 

And  was  buried  at  Howick.  Also  of 
Marianne  and  Sarah  Maria, 
their  daughters,  who  died  in  childhood. 

Hanc  Tabulam 

In  parentum  sororumque  memoriam 
De  Berdt  Hovell 
Decanus  Waiapuensis 
Posuit. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE  AND  ELSTREE. 


101 


Prtufjtrr,  Iteseg  of  WUy,  Uisttatum,  1664. 

William  Vesey  of  Bedingham  in  com.  Norf.=f-Mary  da.  of  Robert  Bedingfield  of  Norfolk. 

| - 7 - 1 

Tho.  Vesey  of  Wikes  in  com.  Essex. =^Mart  ha  da.  of  Oliver  Hovell  of  S1  Edmunds  Bury  in  com.  Suff. 

i - 1 

Robert  Vesey  of  Weekes  in  com.  Essex  Gent.  1664. 

[Signed]  Rob6  Yesey. 


Clntrl)  iPctugiTr  from  tljc  Urbctt 


Mathew  Gooding  of  Blaxall  in  the  County  of  Sujf.= p 

l - 1 

Thomas  Gooding  of  Freeston  in  the  County  of  Suff.  Gent,  left  by  will 
an  Annuity  of  40,b  per  ann.  to  Thomasine  his  daughter  her  heirs. 


John  Clench  of  Leedes  in  Com.  Ebor.  temp.  Hen.  8th.=f= 
- 1 

Joan  the  daughter  of  John  Amias  of=j=John  Clench  of  Wetherfield  in 
Essex,  Gent.  the  County  of  Essex.  Gent. 


Thomasine  daughter  heir  of  Tho‘  Gooding — 
Daniel  Godfrey  of  Great  Beatings  in  Suff.  Gent. 


John  Clench  of  Holbrook  Esquire^ Katherine  daughter  heir  Richard  Clench  in  Sud- 


of  the  Judges  of  the  Kings 
Bench  temp.  Eliz. 


of  Thomas  Almott  of  Greet¬ 
ing,  Gent. 


bury  in  Suffolk,  Gent. 
Brother  to  the  Judge. 


- 1 — i — i - 

Lora,  m.  to  Bacon  of 
Bramfordfhen  to  Edwd 
Helmes  of  Bentley. 


l  I 

Thomas 

Clench. 

Robert 

Clench. 


John  Clench of=r The  daughter  of 


HoVbroke;then 
of  Beatings ; 
second  son  to 
the  Judge. 


Holmes  of  Stow  - 
market  Gent.  She 
ivas  the  widow  of 
Prettiman. 


Thomas  Clench  of  Hol- 
broke  Creetings  Esqr. 
High  Sheriff  of  Suff. 
1616.  Grandfathr  to  Sr 
Rob 1  Clench,  Km . 


Margaret,  m.  to  Dameron 
of  Henley  in  Suffolk. 

Jane  m.  1  to  Walker,  2  to 
Mercer,  3  to  George  Capell. 


Katherine,  m.  to 
John  Freelove  of 
Harksted. 


Philippa 

Clench. 


and  Ann 


Thomasine,  m.  to 
Jeffery. 


Margaret  the=rGeorge  Clench  of  Beatings, 


daughter  8f 
heir  of  Dan 1 
Godfrey. 


eldest  son  of  John,  married 
Ap.  20,  1613.  Sepult.  ad 
Beatings  Dec.  13,  1619. 


John  Clench 
a  Spanish 
Merchant ; 
sine  prole. 


Almott  Clench 
Esquire,  bap¬ 
tized  March 
22.  159k. 


Dorcas  the  daughter- 
of  Robert  Sparroiv  of 
Ipswich,  Gent,  his 
first-  wife. 


-Edmund  Clench  o}= 
Ipswich  Gent,  the 
4t!t  son  of  John ; 
baptd  May  181592. 


-Mary  the  daughter  of 
Oliver  Hovell  of  Bury 
St.  Edmund’s  :  the  relict 
of  Chaplin  of  Ipswich. 


Margaret  dr  8f  hr  of  George  Clench, 
bapt.  Jan.  16  161%— Wm  Blondevil 
of  little  Stonham  in  the  County  of 
Suffolk,  Gent.  =p 

_ _ i 


Edmund,— Elizabeth  the  daur  of 
son  heir  Giles  Pooley  of  Lon- 
of  Edmund,  don,  Sep.  25  1678, 
marryed.  buried  at  Beatings. 


—  —  i  l  i 

William  Philip  Clench,  Andrew  Samuel  Clench,  Dorcas 

Clench,  buried  August3  Clench.  buriedAugust8  Clench; 

second  1671  at  Great  1678,  at  great  dyed  a 

son.  Beatings,  Suff.  Beatings,  Suff.  Virgin. 


Margaret  only  daur  0f  Wm  Blondevil,  sole  heir  to=rAndreiv  Sorrell  Esquire, 


her  mother,  born  July  21, 1641 ;  obijt  July  23, 1705, 
set  at.  65. 


Manuel  Sorrell  K‘  natus  obijt  1674,  sep. 
cum  i ix.  ad  D.  Petr. 


son  and  heir  to  Sr—Anne  the  daur  of  Luke  Jowers  Gent.  Port- 
man  of  Ipswich  ;  first  wife  to  And.  Soi~rell 
Esqr. 


Margaret  the  eldest  born- 
July  21st  1663,  obijt 
March  10  1720-1. 


-John  Blomfield  Manuel  the  second  child,  born  Aug.  21  A°  1664. 
of  Ipswich.  Cselebs  obijt  Aug.  5,  1707,  setat.  43  :  sepult  ad  D.  Petri. 


Martha,  born  March  10,  166%,  obijt 
Nov.  5,  1705 ;  sepult  ad  D.  Petri  Gipp. 


Stephen,  Margaret,  James,  John,  omnes  innupti  obiere  una  cum 
patre  Sf  matre  sepulti  ad  D.  Laurentii  in  Gippovico. 


Johannes,  natus  Octobr  16  1688,  cselebs 
obijt  April  30,  1723,  setat.  35. 


Add.  MS.  19,123,  fo.  263  b. 


“  This  appears  to  have  been  copied  from  a  Pedigree  on  Parchment  among  the  Revett  papers,  but  with  some  additions. 
The  last-mentioned  Pedigree  has  the  following  arms.”  Note  by  Davy. 

Clench,  impaling  Amyas.  Arg.  a  boar’s  head  couped  close,  betw.  3  cross  crosslets  Sa. 

Clench,  impaling  Almott.  Quarterly,  1  and  4,  Arg.  on  a  bend  cotised  Sa.  3  escallops  of  the  1st.  2  and  3,  Arg.  a 
chev.  betw.  3  mullets  of  6  points  Gu. 

Clench,  impaling  Holmes.  Or,  2  bars  Az.  ;  on  a  canton  Erm.  a  rose  Gu.  barbed  and  seeded  Pr. 

Godfrey.  Or  3  griffins  passant  in  pale  Az.  impaling  Gooding. 

Clench,  impaling  Sparrow.  Arg.  3  roses  and  a  chief  Gules. 

Clench,  impaling  Hovel.  Quarterly,  1  and  4,  Sa.  a  cross  Arg.  2  and  3,  Sa.  a  crescent  Or. 

Clench,  impaling  Pooley.  Or  a  lion  rampant  Sa.,  charged  on  the  shoulders  with  a  crescent  Arg. 

The  marriage  of  Mary  Hovell,  the  relict  of  Chaplin  of  Ipswich,  is  also  given  in  a  Chaplin  pedigree  in  the  Candler  MSS., 
now  in  the  Bodleian  Library  at  Oxford. 


O 


102 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


•prtngnr  from  tljr  Cambritigrslmc  Visitation,  1619. 


T 


Thomas  Willis  esqr  of  Ey  hall  in  Com’  Cambridge ,=j= 

_ i 


Richard  Willis  of  Ey  hall  8f=^Jane  d.  Sf~  sole  heire  of  Will’m  heumars  of 
of  the  Inner  temple  esqr.  j  Balls  in  Com’  hertfford  esqr. 


1.  Thomas  Willis^Anne  d.  of  8r  John  Wylde 


of  Ey  hall. 


of  S(  Martin’s  in  the  Citty 
of  Canterbury  in  Com  Kent. 


Thomas  Willis. 


2.  Richard 
Willis. 


- 1 

Anne. 


3.  Will’m 
Willis. 


2.  Thomas  Willis  of  .  .  .  in  Com’  .  .  . 

Clarice  of  the  Crowne. 

- 1 

Elizebeth  vx  Will’m,  sonn  heire  of  Sr  Christopher 
Man  of  .  .  .  in  Com  Kent. 


Arms :  Quarterly,  1,  Willis.  Per  fess  Gu.  and  Arg.,  3  lions  rampt.  counterchanged  within  a  bordure  Ermine. 
2,  Heumars.  Arg.  a  lion  rampt.  guardt.  Yert  crowned  Or.  3,  Goband.  Barry  of  five  Gules  and  Or,  in  chief  three  plates. 

Harl.  MS.  1534. 


Iktugrcr,  Camlmtigrsljur  Visitation,  1684. 


Rich d  Willis  of  Balles  by  Hertford,  Esqr  ob.=j=Jane,  Da.  Heir  of  Wm  Heumarsh 
1625,  set.  circa  48.  \  of  Balles. 


i 

1.  8r  Tho.  Willis=r Anne  eldest  Da.  Co- 
of  Fenditton,  heir  of  Sr  John  Wilde 
Bart.  set.  fere  72,  of  Canterbury,  Knt . 


1684. 


i - 

Tho.  Fox  Willis, 
Cselebs  1684. 


- —i - - - - 

2.  Sr  Ric.  Willis  of^AUce,  Da.  8f  Sole 
Waltham  Abbey,  Knt.  Heir  of  Tho.  Fox, 
S'  Bart.,  set.  70, 1684.  M.D.,  of  Waltham 

Abbey. 


1.  Alice,  ob.  2.  Anne,  Cselebs 
Cselebs.  1684. 


“T 

3.  Wm  Willis,  Colonel  of  Horse  in  ye 
service  of  K.  Ch.  I.,  ma.  Catherine, 
Da.  of  Sr  John  Offley  of  Madeley  in 
Staff.,  Widoio  of  Tho.  Willis,  son  8f 
Heir  of  Thos  Willis  of  Ash  in  Hants, 
Esqr. 


Elizabeth,  Wife 
of  Sr  Wm  Man 
of  Canterbury, 
Knt,  son  of  S’ 
Christofer  Man. 


i - 1 - r 


1.  Tho. 

2.  John= 

rMary,Da.  3.  Rich. 

4.  Wm  Willis  of =i=  Catherine, 

5.  Rob.- 

=Mary,  Da.  of 

6.  Henry, 

Willis, 

Willis 

of  Tho.  Willis,  a 

London,  Ham- 

Da.  of  ..  . 

Willis  of 

Tho.  Stagg  of 

ob. 

ob. 

of  Bury 

Savage  of  Centl 

burghmerch^ast. 

Ashford  of 

Foxtox  in 

Land., Widow 

young. 

Css- 

St.  Ed- 

Elmley  Pensioner 

circa  45,  1684. 

Ashford  in 

Cambsh., 

of  Wm  Lie w- 

ebs. 

munds, 

Castle  in  to  his  Maj. 

His  2nd  Wife, 

Devonsh., 

set.  42, 

elin  of  Mel- 

set.  47, 

Worcesh.  Cselebs 

Mary, Da.  of  ..  . 

1  w. 

1684. 

borne  in 

1684. 

Esqr.  1684. 

Gore,  mere 1  of 

Cambsh. 

Lond.  Wid.  of 

i — r~ 

'I - 1 

Geo.  Evelyn,  eld- 

L  l 

1.  Thomas,  set.  9. 

1.  Anne,  set.  12. 

est  son  of  Geo. 

John,  set.  2 

in. 

— 

Evelyn  of  Wot- 

1684. 

2.  John,  set.  1  an. 

2.  Mary,  set.  10. 

ton  in  Surry. 

i  T 

L 

r 

Tho.  Willis.  1. 

Anne.  2.  Mary. 

3.  Frances. 

n 

Eliz.  set.  6, 

1684. 

i  i  i 

1 - i - 1 - 1 

1.  Anne,  ma.  An- 

4.  Mary. 

tliony  Fisher,  son 

— 

of  Wm  Fisher  of 

5.  Hestr. 

Wisbich. 

— 

— 

6.  Fran- 

2.  Eliz.,  ma.  Edw. 

ces. 

Nutt  of  Necking- 

— 

ton,  near  Canter- 

7.  Ellen. 

bury. 

Died 

— 

unmar - 

3.  Jane,  ma.  Nic. 
Repps,  D.D.  of 
Mat  shall,  near 
Skarning,  in  Norf. 

ried. 

Arms :  Quarterly,  1  and  4,  Per  fess  Gules  and  Argent,  three  lions  rampant  counterchanged  within  a  bordure  Ermine 
(Willis);  2,  Argent,  a  lion  rampant  Vert,  crowned  Or  (Heumarsh);  3,  Gules,  two  bars  Or,  in  chief  three  bezants  (Goband). 
On  an  escutcheon  of  pretence,  Argent,  a  chevron  Sable,  on  a  chief  of  the  second  two  martlets  of  the  first  (Wilde). 

Crest :  Two  lions’  gambs  erased,  the  dexter  Argent,  the  sinister  Gules,  supporting  an  escutcheon  Or. 

Add.  MS.  5822. 


Armorial  Bearings. 

The  Armorial  Bearings  of  the  Hovells  of  Wyverstone  and  Elstree,  as  recorded  in  the  Heralds’ 
College,  are  as  follows : — Arms  : — Sable  a  cross  invected  between  in  the  first  and  fourth  quarters 
a  fleur-de-lis  and  in  the  second  and  third  a  crescent,  all  Or.  Crest : — In  front  of  a  rhinoceros’s 
head  couped  proper  a  crescent  Or. 


HO  YELL  OF  AVYVERSTONE  AND  ELSTREE. 


103 


Prtrignr,  Dobell  of  33ury  &t.  (Sinnuntis. 


Stephen  Hovell,  of  High  Hall  in  Horn-=f=Joan,  dan.  of  Martin  Folkes,  of  Westley,=j=Thomas  Willows,  of  High  Hall,  in  Horning- 


mgsea,  co.  Cambridge,  30  July  1552, 
when  he  made  Will,  Ely  Consistory  ;  of 
Kirtling,  co.  Cambr.,  34  and  35  H.  8  1543 
( Subsidy  82,  191)  ;  of  Horningsea  1545 
( Subsidy  82,  218).  Left  his  lands  in 
Kirtling  to  Edward  Hovell,  his  son. 


co.  Cambr.,  ancestor  of  Martin  Folkes, 
Escp,  who  mar.  Dorothy,  dau.  and  coh.  of 
Sir  William  Hovell,  of  Hillington,  Knt. 
Will,  P.C.C.24  Daper,  7  Oct.  1571,  proved 
8  July  1572,  he  names  his  dau.,  then  Joan 
Willowes,  and  her  children. 


sea,  2d  husband,  mar.  circa  1554 ;  bought 
the  Manor  of  High  Hall  1555  ;  ancestor  of 
Willys,  of  High  Hall,  Baronets.  See  Burke’s 
Extinct  Baronetage.  Will,  P.C.C.  20  Babing- 
ton,  5  Sept.  1568.  Inq.  p.m.  10  Elizabeth. 


Edward  Hovell,  of  Exning,  co.  Suffolk,=p Margaret,  dau.  of  Wm.  Morden, 


1569 — 1575  ;  of  Wangford,  in  Lackford 
Hundred,  1597 ;  joined  his  wife  in  sale 
of  Kirtling  lands,  Fines  25  and  26 
Elizth.,  etc.  Died  at  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  and  was  bur.  in  St.  Mary’s 
churchyard  in  July  1608. 


of  Fenditton,  who  made  Will. 
P.C.C.  30  Martyn,  24  May  1574, 
the  ancestor  of  LordSuffield ;  sis¬ 
ter  of  Oliver  Morden,  of  Exning, 
kinsman  of  Sir  John  Morden, 
Bart., founder  of  Morden  College. 


Agnes,  mar.  1  Edward  Willows, 
of  Exning,  whose  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  was  proved  20  Sept.  1576 : 
2,  Henry  Westhorpe,  of  Exning, 
who  made  Will,  P.C.C.  81  Kidd, 


- 1 

Alice 

Hovell, 

under 

age 

1552. 


Edward  Hovell,  of  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  sold  the  Kirtling  estate  by 
Fine,  Mich.  32  and  33  Eliz. ;  mar. 
at  Exning,  18  Nov.  1601,  Anne 
Chenerie.  Will,  P.C.C.  72  AVinde- 
bank,  proved  8  June  1607. 


Richard  Hovell,  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  clothier ; 
bapt.  1569.  Will,  P.C.C. 
110  Cope,  proved  1616 ; 
ob.  s.p. ;  to  be  bur.  in  St. 
Mary’s  church. 


22  Aug.  1599, 
following. 

proved  7 

Nov. 

1 

Stephen  Hovell, 

AViiliam 

I 

Philip, 

bapt.  at  Exning 

Hovell, 

wife  of 

23  Mar.  1571  ; 

bapt.  at 

William 

devisee  of  Ric. 

Exning 

Young, 

Elsden,  his  ne- 

10  Mar. 

1607 

phew,  1637. 

1575. 

(issue) . 

Thomas  Willows,  son 
and  heir,  aged  14  at 
his  father’s  death  ; 
Lord  of  High  Hall 
Manor,  in  Horning¬ 
sea.  Will,  Ely  Con¬ 
sistory  12  Feb.  1625. 
- 1 

Mary,  mar.  to  Mark 
Peachie,  June  1614,  at 
St.  Mary’s,  Bury.  He 
is  named  in  Richd. 
Elsden’s  Will,  1637. 


Oliver  Hovell,  of  Bury  St. ^Elizabeth  Kempe, 


Edmunds,  chief  heir  of  Ed¬ 
ward  Hovell,  his  brother, 
1607 ;  bought  lands  1616, 
1620 ;  devisee  of  Richd  Els- 
den,  his  nephew,  1637. 


mar.  at  St.  Mary’s 
church,  Bury,  19 
Oct.  1608 ;  survived 
her  husb.,  and  was 
living  in  1667. 


Katherine,  married  to  Richard 
Elsden,  1606.  Her  son,  Richd. 
Elsden,  of  Bury,  names  his 
Hovell  kinsfolk  in  his  Will, 
proved  28  Oct.  1637.  Bury  Wills 
and  Inventories,  p.  170. 


Thomas  Hovell,  of  Bury=f  Elizabeth,  mar.  before 


St.  Ed.’s,  bapt.  at  Exning 
7  June  1573.  Will,  P.C.C. 
103  Meade,  proved  in 
1618  ;  had  issue  Richard, 


Thomas  and  Elizabeth.  /|\bing,  in  Will  1637. 


1607 ;  living  1618.  Pro¬ 
bably  identical  with  Eliz. 
Hovell,  who  left  all  to  dau. 
Eliz.,  wife  of  Henry  Steb- 


Mary,  bapt.  Aug.  1609  ; 
mar.  1,  .  .  .  Chaplvn, 
of  Ipswich ;  2,  Edmund 
Clench,  of  Ipswich,  Gent., 
of  the  Visitation  family 
of  that  name.  She  names 
nephews,  etc.,  in  her  Will, 
Arch.  Sufi.  26  Jan.  1684. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  Martha,  bapt.  1612,  mar.  Tho.  Yesey, 
1611,  wife  of  of  Wix,  co.  Essex,  Gent.,  son  of  AVm. 
.  .  .  Smith,  of  Vesey,  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  AYix  Ab- 
Bury  1684.  bey,  by  Mary,  his  wife,  dau.  of  Sir 

—  Robert  Bedingfield,  of  Ditchingham ; 

Sarah, bap. 1617,  his  son  entered  pedigree  in  the  Essex 
wife  of  .  .  .  An-  Visitation  1664.  His  Will,  Arch.  Colch., 
drews  1684.  is  dated  20  Sept.  1661. 


Oliver  Hovell,  of=j=Mary,  dau.  of  Luke 


Bury,  Gent.,  bap. 
1615 ;  mar.  at 
AVickhambrook  6 
Nov.  1656.  Will 
Arch.  Sudb.,  8 
Chas.  II,  proved 
10  Feb.  1674. 


L 


Curtis,  of  Wickham- 
brook,  Gent.,  who 
made  AVill  1680.  Her 
Will, P.C.C.  116Irby, 
is  dat.  28  July  1694, 
bur.  in  St.  Mary’s 
church,  Bury. 


- n 

Edward, 
bapt.  and 
died 
1810. 

Margar¬ 
et,  bapt. 
1614. 


William  Hovell, ^Rachel, 
of  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  bapt. 

1659  at  St. 

Mary’s  ch.  AVill, 

P.C.C.  38  Foote, 

1  July  1686. 


dau.  of 


Barnard  Carter, 
Gent.,  Mayor  of 
Sudbury,  &  Rachel 
his  wife.  She  made 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
1723 ;  bur.  in  St. 
Mary’s  church. 


Richard  Hovell,  Gent.,  Al¬ 
derman  of  Bury,  bapt. 
1661 ;  many  lands  in  AVy- 
verstone,  etc.  AVill,  P.C.C. 
216  Tenison,  25  Jan.  1716. 
M.I.  in  St.  Mary’s  church, 
where  he  lies  buried  ;  died 
29  Dec.  1717. 


Thomas  Hovell, 
Gent.,  Alderman 
of  Bury;  ob.1723 
set.  58.  M.I.  in 
St.  Mary’s  ch., 
where  he  lies 
buried ;  died  3 
Oct.  1723. 


Mary,  bap.  June 
1666 ;  mar.  AVm. 
Blatt, of  London. 
Her  AA’ill,  P.C.C. 
187  Box,  25  Sep. 
1693.  She  was 
bur.atSt.Mary’s, 
Bury, 80ct. 1693. 


Anne,  bap.  Dec.  1670 ; 
mar.  John  Symonds ; 
their  son,  John  Sy¬ 
monds,  D.D.,  mar. 
Mary,  dau.  and  coh.  of 
Sir  Thomas  Spring, 
by  Merelina,  dau.  and 
coh.  of  Lord  Jermyn. 


- 1 — l 

Oliver  Ho¬ 
vell,  bapt. 
at  St.  Ma¬ 
ry’s  1663. 

Elizabeth, 

baptized 

1669. 


Oliver  Hovell,  of  Bury , ^Elizabeth  Dent,  mar.  William  Hovell,  of =Mary, grand-daughter  of  Barnard  Carter  Hovell, -r Anne,  his 


Gent.,  bapt.  at  St.  Mary’s 
23  Feb.  1681.  AVill,  Arch. 
Sudb.  31  Dec.  1722,  proved 
1  Feb.  1731  ;  lands  in  Nor¬ 
folk,  Suffolk,  and  Essex, 
at  Wyverstone,  etc. 


at  St.  James’  church, 
Bury,  1711.;  survived 
her  husband  many 
years.  AVill,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  16  April  1745, 
proved  12  June  1756. 


Norwich,  2d 
bapt.  11  Aug.  1683  ; 
bur.  in  St.  Mary’s 
church,  Bury  St. 
Edmunds,  3  April, 
1721. 


the  Rev.  John  Lucas, 
of  Norwich,  who  made 
AVill,  P.C.C.  113  Degg, 
7  Sept.  1700  ;  she  was 
bur.  in  St.  Mary’s,  Bury, 
in  Oct.  1717. 


youngest  son,  bapt.  at 
St.  Mary’s,  Bury,  16S4. 
M.I.  in  St.  Gregory’s 
churchyard,  Sudbury ; 
died  1716,  aged  31 ;  lands 
in  Suffolk  and  Essex.  7 


widow,  made 
Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  12  Apr. 
1755,  proved 
24  December 
^following. 


AVilliam  Hovell 
and  Richard  Ho¬ 
vell  died  in  in¬ 
fancy. 

Elizabeth,  devi¬ 
see  of  her  great 
uncle,  Richard 
Hovell. 


William  Hovell,  of  Badwell=f  Elizabeth,  dau.  of  the  Rev.  Alexander 


Ash,  Esquire,  born  at  Bury 
1715;  M.B.  Cantab.,  1740; 
J.P.  for  Suffolk ;  sold  his 
Norfolk  estate  1751.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  19  Aug.  1768, 
proved  26  July  1769  ;  bur. 
in  Badwell  chancel  21  July 
1769.  M.I. 


Burrell,  M.A.  (of  the  family  now  repre¬ 
sented  by  Lord  Gwydyr),  Rector  of 
Adstock,  Bucks,  and  Prebendary  of 
Lincoln ;  mar.  at  St.  Benet’s,  Paul’s 
Wharf,  London,  30  March  1736.  She 
died  at  Adstock  Oct.  1764,  aged  52,  and 
was  bur  in  the  chancel  there  with  her 
parents.  Monument  to  their  memory. 


Hannah,  dau.  of: 
John  Booty,  of 
Lackford, Gent.; 
sister  and  coheir 
of  John  Booty, of 
Ingham,  died  7 
Feb.  1777 ;  bur. 
in  AVvverstone 


=Thomas  Hovell,  of=pMary 


Elmswell,  Bacton  and 
Wyverston,  Gent.,  2d 
surv.  son ;  bap.at  Bury 
1719  ;  mar.  Hannah 
Booty  at  Lackford,  21 
Sep.  1743.  AVill,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  30  April  1801 ; 
chancel.  M.I.  /t\d.23Feb.l805,ast.86./\ 
See  Next  Page. 


Foyster, 
2d  wife, 
mar.  at 
Elms¬ 
well 
17  April 
1788. 


AVilliam  Ho¬ 
vell,  eld.  son, 
bapt.  1745; 
mar.  Betty 
Peppen. 


John  Hovell, 
bapt.  at  Bad- 
well  1757 ; 
mar.  and  had 
issue. 


Jane  Philippa, 
born  1739  ;  m. 
John  Manning; 
bur.  in  Badwell 
chancel.  M.I. 


Elizabeth, mar. 
Ellis  Pett,  of 
Walsham  le 
AVillows,  1762  ; 
bur.atBadwell. 


- 1 - 

Arabella  Cather¬ 
ine,  born  1749 ; 
mar.  John  Dent, 
of  Langham, 
Gent.,  1768. 


Maria,  bapt.  1755;  mar.  the  Rev.  John 
Lamb,  M.A. ;  she  died  1840.  M.I. 
Their  son,  the  Yery  Rev.  John  Lamb, 
D.D.,  was  Dean  of  Bristol  and  Master 
of  Corpus  Chr.  Coll.,  Camb. 


Timothy  Bur¬ 
rell  and  others, 
d.  infants  or 
s.p. 

O2 


104 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Pftugrrr,  Hobdl  of  OTyberstow’  nnb  Clotrrc. 


Hannah,  dan.  of  John  Booty,  of  Lackford,  co.; 
Suffolk,  Gent.,  sister  and  coheir  of  John 
Booty,  of  Ingham  ;  died  7  Feb.  1777,  aged  61 ; 
bur.  in  Wy vers  tone  chancel ;  is  called  Ann  in 
M.I.  at  Wyverstone. 


=Thomas  Hovell,  of  Elmswell,  Bacton,  and  Wyverstone, =j=Mary  Foyster,  2d  wife, 
Gent,  (see  preceding  page) ;  bapt.  at  St.  Mary’s,  Bury  St. 

Edmunds,  1719  ;  mar.  Hannah  Booty,  at  Lackford,  21 
Sept.  1743.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  30  April  1801  ;  died  23 
Feb.  1805,  aged  86 ;  named  on  the  tomb  at  Wyverstone  ; 
sold  Wyverstone  lands  to  John  Moseley. 


mar.  at  Elmswell  17 
April  1788  ;  proved  her 
husband’s  Will  20  July 
1805. 


William  Hovell,  of  Elmswell,  and  afterwards  of  Wyverstone1 
and  London,  Gent.,  devisee  of  his  uncle  John  Booty,  1773  ; 
mar.  at  Elmswell,  22  Sept.  1777 ;  died  12  Sept.  1820,  aged 
66;  named  on  the  Wyverstone  tomb;  sold  Wyverstone 
lands  to  Thomas  Cocksedge. 


Charles  Richard  Hovell,  bom  at 
Wyverstone  18  Dec.  1785  ;  bapt. 
1  Feb.  178|;  bur.  there  21  June 
1786. 


Oliver  Hovell,  born  at 
Wyverstone  26  Nov. 
and  bapt.  29  Nov.  1799 ; 
died  in  childhood. 


:Mary,  dau.  of  Hamblen  Blanchflower, 
of  Watton,  co.  Norfolk;  bapt.  there  8 
July  1759  ;  died  5  March  1806,  aged  47  ; 
and  was  bur.  at  Wyverstone.  M.I.  to 
her  and  her  infant  children. 


Thomas  Hovell, 
born  and  bapt. 
at  Elmswell, 
Suffolk,  29  Mar. 
1790. 


Elizabeth,  born 
at  Elmswell  31 
May  1792 ;  bur. 
thei'e  28  March 
1793. 


Hannah  Maria  Hovell,  bapt.  Elizabeth  Hovell,  bapt.  at  Harriot,  bapt.  at 
at  Wyverstone  12  March  Wyverstone  19  Nov.1790;  Wyverstone  21 
1783;  bur.  there  31  July  died  at  Cheltenham,  12  Nov.,  &  bur.  there 
1807  ;  ®t.  24.  M.I.  April  1884,  set.  93.  M.I.  25  Nov.  1792. 


Thomas  Hovell,  of  Clapton,  Mid-=j=Mary, 
dlesex;  bapt.  at  Elmswell,  24 
September  1780 ;  married  14 
June  1809;  died  12  Septem¬ 
ber  1844. 


1.  Mary  Kezia  De  Berdt,  born  3 
May  1810;  married  29  Aug. 
1850,  as  his  2d  wife,  Alexander 
AugustinNathanielMariaGreen ; 
died  23  May  1890,  aged  80. 


dau.  of  Dennis  De 
Berdt,  of  London,  merchant, 
of  an  ancient  Flemish  family. 
She  died  20  October  1821, 
aged  39. 


Charles  Hovell,  Surgeon  R.N,  born  at  Wy-=pMary  Anne,  dau.  of  William 
verstone  3  July  1788 ;  made  Will  1  Oct. 

1849  ;  died  12  June  1859,  aged  70  ;  bur.  at 
St.  Gregory’s,  Canterbury,  17  June  1859. 

Had  with  other  issue,  who  died  s.p., 


2.  Esther  Reed,  born  31  Aug. 
1811;  married,  23  Nov. 
1841,  Samuel  B.  Merriman, 
She  died  28  June  1862. 


3.  Caroline  B.  Ho¬ 
vell,  born  14  Aug. 
1813  ;  died  18  Oct. 
1822,  aged  9.  M.I. 


4.  Julia  Jane,  born  14 
Oct.  1814;  mar.  the 
Rev.  Challis  Parois- 
sien,  M.A.,  Rector  of 
Hardinffham,  Norf. 


Adams,  bapt.  at  Deal,  co. 
Kent,  6  April  1790 ;  mar. 
there  1811  ;  bur.  at  St. Gre¬ 
gory’s,  Canterbury,  1862. 
- 1 

Sarah  Ann  Hovell,  bapt. 
at  Deal  1  Dee.  1813  ;  died 
unm.  29  Nov.  1870,  aged 
57  ;  bur.  at  St.  Gregory’s, 
Canterbury,  2  Dec.  1870. 


Thomas  Mark 
Hovell, Surge¬ 
on  in  the  East 
India  Com¬ 
pany’s  Army ; 
born  10  Feb. 
1816 ;  died  at 


Dennis  De  Berdt' 
Hovell,  of  Elstree, 
Herts ;  born  17 
June  1817  ;  mar¬ 
ried  24  Feb.  1848 ; 
died  5  June  1888, 
bur.  at  Elstree. 


l.Arthur  Hovell 
Romilly,  Lieut, 
in  the  Duke  of 
Cornwall’s  L.I.; 
served  in  the 
South  African 


2.FrancisIlenry 
Romilly,  Lieut, 
in  the  Welsh 
Regiment ;  serv¬ 
ed  in  the  South 
African  war. 


'Mary,  3d  dau.  of  Ab¬ 
raham  De  Horne,  of 
Lexden,  Essex  (see 
Burke’s  Landed  Gen¬ 
try,  1871,  De  Horne  of 
Stanway  Hall) ;  died 
29  June  1898,  aged 


- 1 

5.  Anna 
Margaret, 
mar.  1842 
Rev.Lewis 
Page  Mer¬ 
rier,  M.A. 
of  U.  Coll., 


Eliza  Maria  Car¬ 
oline  B.  Hovell ; 
born  1826;  died 
unm.  29  Nov. 
1870,  set.  44 ; 
bur.  at  St.  Gre¬ 
gory’s,  Canter- 


Charles  Henry  John  Hovell, =j=Sarah,  dau.  of  Mi 


of  Auckland,  New  Zealand, 
Brigade-Surgeon  Lieut. - 
Col.,  served  in  the  New 
Zealand  war;  mar.  (2ndly) 
Maria,  dau.  of  Helier  Vi- 
bert ;  died  at  sea,  1893, 


Bombay,  13  M.I. 

Nov.  1839. 

M.I. 

72  ;  bur.  at  Elstree,  Oxon ;  d.  4  bury,  2 
Herts.  M.I.  Feb.  1903,  1870. 

set.  84. 

Dec.  and  was  bur.  in  mid-ocean. 
M.I.  in  Napier  Cathedral. 

r  H 

1.  Mary  De  Berdt,  mar.  1872 
Captain  Francis  John  Romilly, 
R.E.,  of  the  elder  branch  of 
Lord  Romilly’ s  family,  who  was 
killed  in  action  near  Suakim, 

22  March  1885,  leaving  issue  a 
daughter  and 

T5 

2.  Ellen  B., 
mar.  21  Sep¬ 
tember  1882, 
Ernest  Bevir, 
and  has  issue. 

i  i  i 

3.  Jessie  Arthur  Dennis 
DeHorne  DeBerdtHovell, 
Hovell.  eldest  son,  born 

—  1851 ;  died  unm. 

4.  Emily  9  Apr.  1872.  M.I. 

Margaret  at  New  College, 
Hovell.  Oxford. 

Henry 
Spearman 
Reed  Ho¬ 
vell,  3d 
son ;  born 
1859;  died 
1863 ;  M.I. 

r 

Harry  Kinnaird 
Hovell,  3d  son, 
born  1862 ;  mar.  at 
the  Pro-Cathedral, 
Napier,  N.Z. ,20  June 
1888,  Mary  Lilian, 
dau.  of  Latham  Os¬ 
borne  Beale. 

chael  Becker,  1st 
wife,  mar.  20  Sept. 
1848  ;  died  24  Mar. 
1868,  set.  39,  as  the 
result  of  a  fall  from 
her  horse.  M.I.  in 
Napier  Cathedral ; 
had  with  other 
issue, 

— 'i 

Harriett  Eva,  2d 
dau.,  born  1854 ; 
mar.  13  Dec.  1879 
at  the  Pro-Cathe¬ 
dral,  Napier,  N.Z., 
Henry  Ellison,  of 
Napier,  N.Z.  (who 
d.  1895)  ;  has  issue. 


Thomas  Mark  Hovell,  F.R.C.S., 
of  Elstree,  Herts.,  and  Harley 
Street,  London,  2d  son ;  born 
1853  ;  medical  attendant  on  the 
late  Emperor  Frederick  III  of 
Germany,  who  bestowed  on  him 
the  Crown  order  in  1888. 


The  Very  Rev.  De  Berdt  Hovell,  Dean  of^Emily,  younger  dau. 


Waiapu,  New  Zealand,  eldest  son ;  born 
21  April  1850;  Vicar  of  Napier,  1878; 
appointed  Dean,  1889.  See  Biographical 
notices  in  Burke’s  Colonial  Gentry ;  the 
Cyclopaedia  of  New  Zealand,  etc. 


of  George  Flitch,  of 
Woodstock,  Canter¬ 
bury,  New  Zealand  ; 
mar.  4  Jan.  1876  at 
St.  Saviour’s  church, 
Templeton,  N.Z. 


Hugh  De  Berdt 
Hovell,  4th  son, 
born  1863 ;  Ma¬ 
jor  in  the  Wor¬ 
cestershire  Reg¬ 
iment;  D.S.O.  ; 
served  in  the  S. 
African  war. 


Robert  De  Berdt 
Hovell,  5th  son ; 
born  1S64 ;  ser¬ 
ved  as  a  Volun¬ 
teer  in  the  Mata- 
bele  war. 


Denys  De  Berdt  Hovell, 
6th  son,  born  1866  ;  mar. 
1st,  20  Feb.  1895,  Henri¬ 
etta  Margaret,  dau.  of 
Hubert  Gray,  who  died  in 
Matabeleland  1898 ;  2dly 
Ada  Maud  Mary  Hen¬ 
derson,  1901. 


1.  Hugh  de  St. 
Croix  Hovell, 
eldest  son ;  born 
at  Prebbleton, 
N.Z.,  Jan.  2, 
1877 ;  died  in 
1887.  M.I.  in  Na¬ 
pier  Cathedral. 


2.  Orioll  Hilton  Mor- 
den  Hovell ;  born  at 
Napier  Aug.  18, 1878  ; 
Lieutenant  in  the 
Manchester  Regi¬ 
ment  ;  served  in  the 
South  African  war. 


3.  Rollo  Rich¬ 
ard  St.  John 
Hovell,  born 
at  Napier, 
March  31, 
1884. 


1.  Ivy  B.  de 
Hastings  Ho¬ 
vell,  only  dau.; 
born  at  Na¬ 
pier. 


HOVELL  OF  WYVERSTONE  AND  ELSTREE. 


105 


Prtujjrcr,  SUtllys  of 


Thomas  Willys,  or  Willowes,  of 
in  co.  Cambridge. 


his  wife,  willed  lands  to  Elizabeth, 
her  daughter. 


Elizabeth, 
mar.  .  .  .  Wil- 
lesmore,  and 
had  issue;  liv¬ 
ing  in  1568. 


Thomas  Willys,  of  High  Hall,  in  Horn-=j=Joan,  dau.  of  Martin  Folkes,=pStephen  Hovell,  of  High 


ingsea,  co.  Cambr. ;  purchased  the 
Manor  of  High  Hall  by  Fine,  Mich.  2  Sf 
3  P.  $•  M.,  1555.  Will,  P.C.C.  20  Bah- 
ington,  5  Sept.  1568;  died  11  Sept, 
following  ;  inq.  p.m.  10  Eliz. 


of  Westley,  co.  Cambr.,  an¬ 
cestor  of  Ffolkes,  of  Hilling- 
ton,  Baronets,  who  made  Will 
P.C.C.  24  Paper,  7  Oct.  1571. 


Hall,  in  Horningsea,  1st 
husb.  Will,  Ely  Consis¬ 
tory,  30  July  1552.  Vide 
Hovell  of  Wyverstone 
and  Elstree. 


George 

Willys, 

living 

1568. 


Ed  ward  Willys. 
Was  he  the 
husband  of  Ag¬ 
nes  Hovell, who 
ob.  1576  ? 


Thomas  Willys,  of  High  Hall, ^Elizabeth,  dau. 


co.  Cambr.,  Esq.,  born  circa 
1555.  Will,  Ely  Consistory,  12 
Feb.  1625,proved8  March  163$. 


of  John  Hasell, 
of  Bottisham, 
co.  Cambridge. 
Burke. 


George  Willys,  Elizabeth 
named  in  his  Willys, 
father’s  Will  ao.  1568. 
1568. 


Edward  Hovell,  of  Exning,  Suf-=pMargaret,  dau.  of 


folk,  1569 — 1575,  half  brother  to 
Thos.  Willys ;  after  of  Bury  St. 
Edmunds,  where  he  died  in  1608. 


Richard  Willys,  of  High  Hall  in  Horn¬ 
ingsea  and  Fenditton,  and  of  the  Inner 
Temple,  Esq. ;  ob.  1625,  aged  circa  48. 
Visitn.  of  Cambr.,  1684.  Of  Balls,  co. 
Herts.  Herts  Visitation,  1634. 


Mane,  dau.  and  sole 
heir  of  William 
Heumarsh, of  Balls 
in  Hertfordshire, 
Esq. 


Thomas  Wil¬ 
lys,  2d  son, 
Clark  of  the 
Crown. 


.  .  .,  mar.  .  .  . 
Reynolds,  &had 
son,  Mr.  Thomas 
Reynolds. 


William  Morden  and 
sister  of  Oliver  Mor¬ 
den,  ancestor  of  Lord 
Suffield. 


Oliver  Hovell,  of  Bury  St.=pElizabethKempe, 


Edmunds,  cousin  german 
to  Richard  Willys. 


married  at  St. 
Mary’s,  Bury. 


A 

A  quo  the  Hovells  of  Bury,  Wyverstone,  and 
Elstree.  See  their  pedigrees. 


1.  Sir  Thomas  Willys, =j= Anne,  eldest  2.  Sir  Richard  Willys,  of  Waltkam=f= Alice,  dau.  and 


of  High  Hall  and 
Fenditton ;  created  a 
Baronet  1641  ;  died 
1701  in  his  90th  year ; 
born  circa  1612. 


1.  Thomas  Willys,  two 
years  old  at  the  Hertf. 
Visitn.  1634  ;  died 
unmarried. 


dau.  &  coheir 
of  Sir  John 
Wilde  of  Can¬ 
terbury, Kut. 


Abbey;  created  a  Baronet  by 
Charles  I,  1646;  Governor  of  New¬ 
ark  for  the  King  ;  died  1690 ;  bur. 
at  Fenditton. 


sole  heir  of 
Thomas  Fox, 
M.D.,  of  Walt¬ 
ham  Abbey. 


3.  Wm.  Willys,  Col.  of  Horse 
in  the  service  of  K.  Chas.  I ; 
mar.  Cathn.,  dau.  of  SirJohn 
Offley,  of  Madeley,  wid.  of 
Tho.  Willys,  son&h.  of  Tho. 
Willys,  of  Ash,  co.  Hants. 


Elizabeth,  mar. 
Sir  William 
Man,  of  Canter¬ 
bury,  son  of  Sir 
Christopher 
Man. 


Sir  Thomas  Fox  Willys,  Bart.,  died  unmarried 
1701,  aet.  29  ;  Baronetcy  extinct. 


Alice,  elder  dau.; 
ob.  cselebs. 


Anne,  younger  dau. ; 
ob.  Calebs. 


1.  Anne,  mar.  Anthony 
Fisher,  son  of  William 
Fisher  of  Wisbeach. 


2.  Elizabeth,  mar.  Ed- 
wardN  utt,of  N  ecking- 
ton,  near  Canterbury. 


3.  Jane,  mar.  Nicholas  Repps, 
D.D.,  of  Mattishall,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk. 


- 1 — i — i - - — ~i 

4,  5,  6.  Mary,  Hester,  7.  Ellen, 
and  Frances,  not  yet  died  un¬ 
married  1684.  married. 


2.  Sir  John  Willys,  ofy=Mary,  dau.  of 


Fenditton,  Bart. ;  d. 
1704,  ast.  68  ;  was  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
Esq.,  in  1684. 


Thos.  Savage, 
ofElmleyCas- 
tleWorcester- 
shire,  Esq. 


3.  Richard  Wil¬ 
lys,  a  Gentle¬ 
man  Pensioner 
to  his  M. ;  un¬ 
mar.  1684. 


Catherine, da.=pWm. Willys,  of=j=Mary,  dau.  of  .  .  .  Gore, 


of . . .  Ashford, 
of  Ashford, co. 
Devon,  1st  w. 


London,  Ham¬ 
burg  merch., 
4th  son. 


Elizabeth,  set.  6,  1634. 


of  London,  wid.  of  Geo. 
Evelyn,  eld.  son  of  G. 
Evelyn,  of  Wotton ; 
2nd  wife. 


5.  Robt.  Willys,  of  Foxton, 
Cambr. ;  mar.  Mary,  dau. 
of  Tho.  Stagg,  of  London, 
wid.  of  Wm.  Llewelin,  of 
Melbourne,  Cambr. 


Sir  Thomas  Wil-- 
lys,  of  Fendit¬ 
ton,  Bart.;  aged 
9  in  1684 ;  died 
1705. 


-Frances 

Rix. 


John, 
2d  son, 
tet.  1 
1684. 


1.  Anne,  set. 
12  in  1684. 

2.  Mary,  Bet. 
10  in  1684. 


1.  Sir  Thomas  Willys,  of 
Fenditton,  Bart.;  cousin 
and  heir  to  Sir  Thos. 
Willys,  1725 ;  died  un¬ 
married  1726. 


2.  Sir  William  Willys,  of 
Fenditton,  Bart. ;  suc¬ 
ceeded  his  brother  1726 ; 
died  unmarried  1732. 
Title  extinct. 


- n — i 

Anne,  Mary 
and  Frances 
living  1684. 


John  Willys, 
aged  2  years 
in  1684. 


Sir  Thomas  Willys,  of  Fenditton,  Bart. ;  died  unmarried  1725, 
aat.  circa.  20.  Title  to  his  cousin,  Sir  Thomas  Willys. 


jffolfets  of  Ruslibrook 


Armorial  ©tarings* 

The  Arms  claimed  by  Folkes  of  Cheveley,  co.  Cambridge,  and  Mildenhall,  co.  Suffolk,  at  the 
Visitation  of  the  former  County  in  1684,  were  a  fleur  de-lys,  and  the  Crest,  a  goat’s  head  erased. 
Cole,  the  Cambridgeshire  antiquary,  who  copied  them  from  the  original  tricking  at  the  Heralds’ 

College,  has  omitted  the  tinctures.  Cole’s  MSS.,  vol.  xxi,  fol.  37.  In  an  earlier  Visitation  of 

Shropshire  ( Earl .  MS.  12J/.1,  fo.  lJ/.Sb )  Foulkes  of  that  county  and  of  Staffordshire  bore,  Vert  a 
fleur-de-lys  Argent.  The  present  Ax-ms  of  Ffolkes  of  Hillington  are,  Per  pale,  Vex-t  and  Gules,  a 

fleur-de  lys  Ermine ;  and  the  Crest  is  A  dexter  arm  embowed,  vested  per  pale  Vert  and  Gules, 

holding  in  the  hand  a  spear  pi-oper. 

Like  their  Rushbrook  cousins  the  Folkeses  of  Cheveley  and  Mildenhall  were  lineal  descendants 
of  Martin  Folkes  of  Westley,  who  made  his  will  in  1571.  A  too  brief  account  of  the  family  is 
given  in  that  delightful  book  “  Rushbi-ook  Parish  Registers,  with  Jerrnyn  and  Davers  Annals,” 
edited  by  the  Rev.  Sydenham  H.  A.  Hervey,  M.A. 


Will  of  William  Jffoltas,  1495. 

The  vijth  day  of  August  in  the  yere  of  owr  lord  m'cccclxxxxiii  I  Wittm  folkys  of 
Newmarket  make  my  Testament  and  last  wyll  oon  this  wyse.  ffvrst  I  bequeith  my  sowle  to 
god  almyghty,  to  the  blessed  Wirgin  his  modi-e  oui-e  lady  saint  mary  and  all  the  hooly 

company  of  heuen  and  my  body  to  be  buryed  in  the  church  of  owr  lady  of  Newmarket  by 
fore  the  Image  of  saint  xpofur.  I  wyll  that  there  be  founde  a  lawmepe  bi-ennyng  by  fore 
the  Image  of  saint  xpofur  dui-yng  all  dyuyne  suyce.  To  the  sayd  church  to  the  Rodeloftyng 
which  that  they  beganne  ffui-st  xxs.  To  the  high  autur  of  Stecheworth  xxd.  To  the  trynyte 
yeld  of  Dytton  iij8  iiijd.  To  Margaret  my  wyf  the  terme  of  the  payment  of  the  Aungell  with 
the  house  and  lond  within  Stecheworth  and  newmarket  tyll  tyme  that  the  Angell  be  paid  for; 

and  aftir  that  she  shall  haue  the  Angell  the  terme  of  her  lyff.  And  aftyr  hir  deacesse  I  wyll 

that  (it),  except  the  tenauntres  shall  x-emeyne  to  my  sonne  Nicholas.  Item  xxvi8  viijd  to  the 
repai-acyon  of  the  church  of  Sticheworth.  Item  viij  mks  to  a  prest  to  sing  for  me  a  yere  for 
the  helthe  of  my  soule,  margret  my  wyf  and  all  cristen  sowles.  I  geue  aftyr  my  place 

be  paid  for  to  Wihm  and  John  my  sonnes  all  my  shoppis  and  tenauntres  to  depart  by  twixt 
them.  To  the  gray  ffreres  of  Cambrige  for  a  trentall  of  saint  gregory  to  pray  for  me  xs. 
The  Resydew  of  all  my  goodis  I  bequeith  to  Symond  folkys  my  brother,  Wyftm  folkys  and 
John  ffolkys  my  sonnes,  home  I  make  myne  executors  to  pay  my  dettys,  and  to  dispose  for 
my  soule.  Probatum  apud  lamehith  iiijt0  die  Julij  [1494].  P.C.C.  13  Vox. 


FFOLKES  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


107 


Will  of  Simon  JFfoltas,  1508. 

The  vii j tu  day  of  Aprill  in  the  yere  of  or  Lord  god  mIvcviii  I  Symon  ffolkys  of  Westle 
Waterles  in  the  diocise  of  Ely  make  this  my  testament,  ffirst  I  comende  my  soule  to  almighty 
god,  oure  lady  seynt  mary  and  to  all  the  seyntes  of  heven,  and  my  body  to  be  buried  in 
the  churche  of  seynt  Peter  th’appostell  bifore  th’ymage  of  seynt  Cristofer.  ffor  the  kepyng  of 

a  lampe  in  the  same  churche  for  eumore  I  geve  a  cowe.  To  the  makyng  of  a  tabernakyll  in 

the  same  church  for  seynt  Nicholas  xvi8  Ac.  To  euy  preest  beyng  at  my  burying  iiijd,  and  to 
euy  clerk  iid,  and  to  euy  poore  body  there  beying  pfsent  id  w4  mete  A  drynk.  In  like  forme 
to  be  doon  on  my  xxx4U  day.  To  Pernell  my  doughter  for  to  offer  euy  Sonday,  terme  of  a 

yere,  id  for  my  soule  iiijs  iiijd.  Ynto  Margaret  my  wyff  my  tente  called  Asplondis  w‘  all  the 

londes  vnto  that  tyme  my  son  Marteyn  come  to  the  age  of  xviij  yeres.  To  my  said  wif  a 

tent  in  Newemkett  w4  ii  acris,  and  aftir  hir  decesse  I  woll  that  the  tente  and  lond  remayn 
to  our  yong  childe  Agnes.  To  euy  childe  of  my  doughter  Pernell  and  of  William  Malyn. 
My  sons  Marteyn,  Richard  and  Thomas.  My  twoo  doughters  Audre  and  Mary  when  they  come 
to  the  age  of  xvi  yeres.  I  make  Richard  Norwych  and  William  ffolkes  executors.  These  men 
beiyng  Witnesse :  Sr  Richard  Boswell  my  confessor  A  pson  of  Westle,  Richard  Lenne  A  others. 

The  last  will  of  me  Symon  ffolkis.  To  my  son  Marteyn  at  the  age  of  xviij  yeres  the 
londes  and  tehtes  called  Asplondis.  To  my  soiie  Richard,  when  xviii,  my  londes  and  tentes  in 
Burgh.  To  my  son  Thomas,  when  xviii,  my  tent  in  Newmkett.  To  my  doughter  Agnes  the 
older  a  copy  tent  w4  londes  durying  her  life.  To  Margaret  my  wif  a  tent  w4  ij  acres 
somtyme  Water  Booton. 

Probatum  xxviii  die  Aprilis,  Anno  dmi  1508  jur  Rici  Norwich  et  WiHi  ffolkes  exec  ac 
Robei’ti  Bentley.  P.C.C.  34  Adeane. 

The  will  of  Martin  Folkes,  of  Westley,  1571,  son  of  the  testator,  will  be  found  on 
page  86,  amongst  the  evidences  of  Hovell  of  Wyverstone  and  Elstree. 


Mill  of  Kith s  als.  JFfnlkes,  1575. 

The  22nd  daye  of  ffebruary  1573,  Anne  Rickes,  now  the  wiffe  of  thomas  folkes  of 
Burwell  in  the  countye  of  Cambridge  and  lat  the  wiffe  of  thomas  Goodwyn  of  Matteshall  in 
the  countye  of  Norff,  deseased.  To  theodor  Goodwyn  afs  Rickes,  my  howses  A  lands  wth  in 
the  countye  of  Norff.  To  the  said  Theodor  my  manner  of  Little  Stonham  als  Stonham 
Jearnegan  w4  in  the  countye  of  Suffolke.  To  Gillian  Lilly  my  kinswoman  xxs.  To  Martha, 
Thomas,  Elizabeth,  Edmund  and  John  pattell,  children  of  Alice  pattell,  my  late  husbonde 
Goodwyn’s  syster.  To  my  syster  Julian  Mapes  hir  two  doughters.  To  my  Syster  benton’s  fower 
children.  To  Grace  Rickes  tenne  pounds  (part  of  which  is)  in  the  handes  of  hir  mother  in  law. 
To  my  kynsman  Richard  Drake  my  ringe  with  a  redd  stone.  My  kynswoman  ftrances  Drack. 
My  sister  Bayeard’s  ffower  youngest  children.  To  my  brother  in  lawe  Roger  Goodwyn  iiij1* 
yerely  duringe  his  naturall  life.  Residue  of  my  goodes  to  Theoder  Goodwyn  als  Rickes  my 
sonn  whome  I  ordayne  my  soole  executor. 


Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Wroo,”  fol.  44. 


108 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Thomas  Goodwin,  L.L.B.,  the  first  husband  of  the  testatrix,  was  Commissary  for  the 
Archdeacons  of  Norfolk  and  Norwich,  1556  and  1563.  Being  in  priest’s  orders  his  marriage  was 
disallowed  in  the  time  of  Queen  Mary,  and  his  son,  for  a  time,  took  the  name  of  Theodore 
Goodwin  als  Rickes.  Anne  Goodwin  als  Rickes  was  the  second  wife  of  Thomas  Folkes,  having 
married  him  at  Burwell,  14th  October  1570  Theodore  Goodwin,  her  son,  who  was  Feodary  of 
Norfolk  and  owned  manors  in  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Yorkshire  and  Cambridgeshire,  married  Anne 
Ffolkes,  the  daughter  of  his  stepfather,  and  their  descendants  entered  a  pedigree  in  the 
Cambridge  Visitation  of  1619.  See  “Goodwin  of  Stonham  Parva,”  vol.  i,  p.  235. 


Mill  of  ®bomas  jffoltas,  1588. 

Thomas  ffolks  of  Newmarkett  co.  Camb1  xxth  April,  xxxth  Elizth.  To  be  buried  in  the 
church  or  churchyard  of  Burwell.  To  the  poore  of  Burwell  xiju ;  of  Newmarkett  vu ;  of 

Swaffham  Prior  xu;  of  Swaffham  Bulbeck  vu.  Vnto  the  children  of  my  two  bretheren  John 
William  ffolks.  Vnto  the  children  of  my  daughter  Agnes  Goodwyn  when  xxi.  Vnto  my 

wife’s  son’s  children  &  her  daughter’s  children  when  xxi.  I  geve  the  Lytle  Parsonage  or 
Priorye  of  Burwell  with  the  howses  &  landes  vnto  Agnes  Goodwyn  my  daughter.  Vnto  the 
children  of  John  Graunge.  My  two  farmes  at  Swaffham  Prior.  Dower  of  Jane  my  wife. 
The  Residue  to  Theodor  Goodwyn  my  sonn  in  law,  whom  I  make  my  executor  :  he  to 

dischai’ge  John  Graunge  my  sonne  in  lawe  of  bonds  as  he  is  bounde  vnto  my  Lord  North 
for  me.  Probatum  xij°  die  Junij  1588  juramento  Theodori  Goodwyn. 

P.C.C.  42  Rutland. 


Mill  of  Jitartm  Jffolkes,  1657. 

I,  Martin  ffolkes  of  Rushbroke  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  yeoman,  the  24th  daye  of 

May  1637,  knowing  there  is  an  appointed  tyme  for  men  to  dye,  and  that  everie  man  must 
goe  to  the  howse  of  his  ffathers,  and  that  earth  must  returne  to  earth  from  whence  it  came, 
doe  make  my  last  will.  My  body  (to  be)  buried  in  the  Church  of  Westly  Waterles.  Vnto 
Martin  ffolkes  my  sonne  my  stocke  at  Claydons  and  all  my  land  in  Westly,  Brincly,  Barrowe 
and  Dullingham  in  the  Countie  of  Cambridge,  which  were  sometymes  Symon  ffolkes’  and  before 
him  William  ffolkes’ ;  except  landes  (in)  ioynture  to  Margaret  my  wife,  and  falles  to  my  eldest 
sonne  by  her,  Thomas  ffolkes.  Vnto  Judith  ffolkes,  Margaret  ffolkes  and  Elizabeth  ffolkes,  my 
daughters  (to  each)  £200.  Vnto  Symon  ffolkes  my  youngest  sonne  my  tenement  bought  of 
Symon  Norwich,  and  he  shall  pay  Bridget  Noi’wich  when  shee  shall  come  to  the  age  of  fower 
&  twentie  yeeres.  Vnto  the  Towne  of  Wesly  five  poundes  vppon  Condicon  that  I  maie  haue  a 
burying  place  in  the  end  of  the  South  Alleye  next  to  the  Chancell  in  the  parish  church  for 
my  self,  my  issue  and  kinred.  Vnto  ffewder  ffolkes  my  brother  50s  a  yeere  if  he  shalbe 

helpfull  to  my  sonn  to  the  vttermost  of  his  power.  I  doe  nominate  ffrancis  ffolkes  my  brother, 

clarke,  and  Martin  ffolkes  my  sonne  to  be  executors.  Theodoret  ffolkes  a  witness.  Probatum 
secundo  die  Septembris  1637  juramentis  executorum.  P.C.C.  126  Goare. 


FFOLKKS  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


109 


Will  of  William  ffolkes,  1637. 

The  twoe  &  twentieth  day  of  January  1637,  I  William  Folkes  of  Exning  in  the  County 
of  Suffolk  doe  make  this  my  last  Will  and  Testament.  I  will  that  my  bodie  be  buried  in  the 
Church  of  Exninge  and  that  five  poundes  be  distributed  among  the  poore  people  the  daie  of 
my  buryall.  I  give  vnto  Anne  my  welbeloued  wife  ffourtie  poundes  a  yeare  during  her  naturall 
life.  My  cosen  John  Raven.  Said  wife  shall  not  clayme  dower  in  my  lands  at  Burwell  in  the 
County  of  Cambridge  nor  in  Cowling  in  the  County  of  Suffolk.  Ynto  my  sonne  Symon  my 
howses,  landes  ifc  tenementes  in  Cowling ;  and  that  close  of  pasture  called  Cysselies  in  Burwell 
and  copie  landes  bought  of  Michaell  Bridgman.  And  ye  residue  of  my  landes  and  tenementes 
in  Burwell,  I  give  vnto  my  grandchild  ffrancis  ye  sole  daughter  of  my  sonne  William  deceased, 
which  came  vnto  mee  from  my  ffather  John  ffolkes.  My  daughter  Anne  Sendon  widd.  My 
daughter  Phillip  the  wief  of  George  Westropp.  My  daughter  Grace  y8  wief  of  John  Westrop. 
Ynto  my  daughter  Priscilla  one  hundred  poundes  over  &  aboue  ye  hundred  poundes  alreadie 
given  vnto  her  husband  Richard  Maning  My  daughter  Bridgett  ye  wief  of  John  Bridgman. 
My  sonne  Symon  I  make  sole  Executor. 

Probatum  secundo  die  Maij  1638  Juramt0  Simonis  ffolkes  filij  dicti  defuncti. 

P.C.C.  60  Lee. 


Mill  of  Hinton  Jffolbs,  1641. 

The  20th  day  of  ffebruary  1641.  Simon  ffolkes  of  Cheveley  co.  Cambridge  gent.  To  my 
kinsman  Thomas  Green  of  Swaffhm  bullerke  my  Mannor  af  Caldcott,  payinge  thereout  vnto  his 
three  bretheren  named  Edward,  William  and  Michaell  three  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  Martin 
ffolkes  the  grandchilde  of  my  brother  Martin  ffolkes  deceased  my  houses  and  lands  in 
Mildenhall,  co.  Suffolk,  payinge  ffyftie  pounds  to  his  brother  John  ffolkes  and  to  his  two  sisters 
twenty  pounds  a  peece  as  my  guifte.  Ynto  my  kinsman  William  Phillipps  lands  <fcc.  in 
Newmarkett,  Wooditton,  Cheveley  and  Dullingham,  payeing  thereout  vnto  his  brother  Edmond 
Phillipps  &c.  Vnto  my  very  good  Lady  the  Lady  Carleton  the  Lease  of  the  Scyte  of  the 
Mannor  of  Cheveley.  Vnto  my  kinsman  John  Raven  my  mansion  house  in  Cheveley  with  the 
lands  belonging.  Allsoe  my  Mannor  of  Burtons  in  ffreckenham  for  life.  And  after  I  bequeath 
(them)  vnto  my  kinsman  Simon  ffolkes  the  second  sonne  of  my  brother  William  ffolkes  deceased. 
And  for  default  of  issue  males  to  the  right  heirs  of  mee  the  said  Simon  for  ever.  To  the 
said  John  Raven  leases  conveyed  vnto  mee  by  Thomas  Willys  Esqr  in  Ashe  or  Deane  in  the 
County  of  Southampton,  payinge  legacies  to  my  sister  Agnes  wife  of  Michaell  Hancocke,  my 
sister  Julian  Wilkins,  widdowe,  my  sister  Grace  Wilkins,  widdowe,  and  to  Anne,  Philippe, 
Grace  and  Bridgett,  the  foure  daughters  of  my  brother  William,  deceased.  To  my  kinsman 
Martin  ffolkes  the  second  sonne  of  my  late  brother  Marten  two  hundred  pounds  to  bee 
distributed  amongst  his  children  after  his  death.  To  my  cosen  Mary  Jackson  widdowe,  the 
daughter  of  my  said  brother  Martin,  one  hundred  pounds.  To  ffrances  ffolkes  the  grandchilde 
of  my  brother  William  ffolkes  one  hundred  pounds  and  all  my  silver  plate :  and  to  her  mother 
Mrs  ffairecloth  tenn  poundes.  To  the  children  of  my  kinsman  John  Norman,  deceased ;  and  to 

P 


110 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


William  Norman  his  brother ;  and  to  his  sister  Waters,  widdowe.  Kinswomen  Anne  Wilkins 
and  Mary  Cooke,  widdowe.  Kinsman  Thomas  Cropley.  To  my  worthy  freinde  Sr  John  Cotton 
one  hundred  pounds.  My  kinsman  Mr  ffrancis  ffolkes  and  to  eiiy  of  his  brothers  and  sisters. 
To  my  godsons  that  beare  my  name,  as  Simon  ffolkes  of  Westly,  Simon  ffolkes  of  Risbrooke, 
Simon  Sendall,  Simon  Westroppe,  Simon  Wilkins  the  sonne  of  John,  Simon  Wilkins  the  sonne 
of  Martin,  and  Simon  the  sonne  of  Henry  Clarke,  tenne  pounds  a  peece.  To  my  brother 
Hancocke  and  my  cosen  John  Westropp  five  pounds  a  peece  with  desire  to  be  Supviso"  of  this 
my  will.  And  I  ordaine  the  said  John  Raven,  Simon  ffolkes,  Martin  ffolkes  iunr  or  grandchilde 
and  Thomas  Greene  executors.  Thomas  Grange  a  witness  In  a  Codicil,  with  various  bequests, 
testator  leaves  to  Nan  Raven  twenty  pounds  in  gold. 

Probatum  vicesimo  die  Julij,  1642,  juramentis  Johannis  Raven,  Simonis  ffolkes,  Martini 
ffolkes  et  Thomre  Greene.  P.  C.C.  93  Cambell. 


Mill  of  Jftartin  JFfoIkes,  1665. 

The  seaventh  day  of  May  1665,  Martin  ffolkes  of  Rushbrooke  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk. 
I  doe  nominate  my  sonn  Martin  ffolkes  sole  executor,  and  doe  desire  my  brother  in  law  John 
Clarke  of  Bury  S*-  Edmond,  Esquire,  and  Edward  Bourne  of  Bury,  gent.,  to  be  assistents  to 
him  and  my  wife  Elizabeth  ffolkes.  Ynto  Martin  ffolkes  my  sonn  all  the  lands  which  I  lately 
bought  of  the  Executors  of  Mr  Acton  in  Harwich  and  Saxelby,  co.  Lincolnshire,  and  in  Broad 
holme,  co.  Nottingham,  and  my  leases  at  Rushbrooke,  Eldoe  and  Bradfeild,  and  all  other  my 
goods,  lands  and  chattells,  he  paying  all  my  mortgages  and  performing  this  will.  I  doe  giue 

my  wife  the  halfe  of  my  Plate  to  dispose  of  amongst  our  children.  Ynto  Edward  ffolkes  my 

sonn  an  annuity  of  Tenn  Pounds,  for  he  knowes  he  have  spent  his  Portion  already.  My  sonn 

Reeue  haue  had  all  his  wife’s  Portion.  Elizabeth  ffolkes  my  daughter  now  marryed  to  Mr 

James  Reeve.  Vnto  Anne  ffolkes  my  daughter  ffower  hundred  Pownds.  Judith  ffolkes  my 
daughter  marryed  John  Dickenson  and  I  have  secured  ffower  hundred  Pownds  to  her.  Ynto 
Simond  ffolkes  my  sonn  ffower  hundred  Pownds  at  his  age  of  two  and  twenty  years.  Vnto 
Thomas  ffolkes  my  youngest  sonn  ffower  hundred  Pownds.  To  the  poore  of  Bury  (and)  of 
Rushbrook.  Probatum  vicesimo  quarto  die  Martij  1676. 

P.C.C.  31  Hale. 


Mill  of  JRartm  jFfolbs,  1705. 

Martine  ffolkes  of  Hillington  in  the  County  of  Norfolk,  Esquire,  the  19th  day  of 
September,  1705.  My  soul,  with  all  humility  of  spirit  I  surrender  vnto  God.  My  body  I 
desire  may  be  buried  in  the  Chancell  of  Hillington.  To  the  poor  of  Rushbrook  in  Suffolk  (the 
place  of  my  birth)  tenn  pounds.  My  neece  Elizabeth  Reeve,  now  the  wife  of  Mr  Henry  Lord, 
and  her  children.  My  brother  and  sister  Stuart.  My  brother  the  Reverend  William  Wake, 
Doctor  in  Divinity,  and  my  sister  his  wife.  To  my  brother  Simon  ffolkes  and  his  wife, 
my  brother  Thomas  ffolkes  and  his  wife,  and  my  sister  Challis.  To  my  dearly  beloved  wife, 
Mrs  Dorothy  ffolkes,  my  coach,  all  my  J ewells  and  Rings  (except  only  a  large  diamond  ring 
which  she  was  pleased  to  give  me  and  was  Sr  William  Hovell’s  her  father’s)  and  my  house  in 
Little  Queen  Strete  wherein  I  now  dwell,  dureing  soe  many  years  as  she  shall  continue  my 


FFOLKES  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


Ill 


M iddow.  Leasehold  estate  in  Middlesex  and  Yorkshire  to  be  sold  and  the  moneys  arising  by 
the  sale  to  be  laid  out  in  the  purchase  of  manors  and  lands.  My  eldest  son,  Martin  ffolkes ; 
my  second  sonn  William  ffolkes;  my  youngest  sonn  Henry  ffolkes.  Vnto  my  only  daughter 
Elizabeth  ffolkes,  six  thousand  pounds.  My  two  younger  sons  are  infants  of  tender  yeares. 
I  confinne  unto  my  wife  all  manors  and  lands  settled  upon  her  for  Joynture.  I  give  her  my 
(purchased)  lands  in  Norfolk.  My  moiety  of  the  ffarme  of  Paddington  in  Middlesex  to  my 
Heire  at  Law.  To  my  brother  Mr  Thomas  ffolkes  the  diamond  ring  I  have  usually  worne. 
To  Mr  Novell,  Rector  of  Hillington,  five  pounds,  for  mourning  Unto  the  Right  Honorable 
Henry,  Lord  Dover,  in  remembrance  of  the  many  obligations  I  have  received  from  his  Lordship 
and  the  Right  Honourable  the  late  Earle  of  S4  Alban,  his  deceased  uncle,  one  hundred  guineas. 
To  my  nephew  Mr  Martin  Challis  the  yearely  sume  of  thirty  pounds  towards  his  support  in 
the  University.  Unto  Mr  John  Nichell  and  Mr  Thomas  Grove  my  kinsman.  Unto  my  sonn 
Martine  ffolkes  the  great  diamond  Ringe  which  his  mother  gave  me  and  was  Sr  William 
Hovell’s  his  grandfather’s.  My  most  dear  wife  Mrs  Dorothy  ffolkes  (to  be)  sole  Executrix 
dureing  her  widdowhood.  Should  she  marry  againe  or  dye,  Dr  William  Wake  and  my  brother 
Mr  Thomas  ffolkes  and  my  long  friend  Mr  Andrew  Card  to  be  the  executors.  Probatum 
secundo  die  Aprilis,  1706,  juramento  Doroth*  ffolkes  relicte  et  Executricis. 

P.C.C.  158  Eedes. 


^rtutjirr  from  tljr  Camfcrfogr  Vteftatton,  1684. 


....  Faulkes- 
of ...  . 


Arms,  a  fleur-de-lys  ;  Crest,  a  goat’s  head  erased  :  with  this 
note,  “A  seal  only  to  justifie  their  -pretensions  to  the  coat. 


2.  Simon  Faulkes  of  Exning  in  Co.  Stiff.  :  obijt  circ.  an  :=p 
1630.  ( John  or  William.) 


1.  Simon  Fa-ullces  of  Cheveley  in  Com.  Cambr :  obijt  circ.  ann :  1644, 
cselebs.  Sep  :  apud  Cheveley. 


Catlidge  in  Com : 
Cambr  :  obijt  circ. 
ann :  1639. 

eley  in  Com  Cambr:  obijt 
an  :  1668  set.  circ.  50. 

John  Foiston  of  Bridgeman  of  New-  Westrope  of  Chester-  .  .  .  Westrop 

Kennit  in  Com.  market  Co.  Suff:  ford  in  Com.  Cambr.  of  Exning  in 
Suff.  wollen  draper.  Com.  Suff. 

r  r 

Francis  Faulkes,  onely  child  1.  Bridget  marr.  to 

marr :  to  Samuel  Faircloth  Will  Clayton  of  New- 

of  London  and  of  Clapham  market  in  Com.  Suf- 

in  Surrey.  folk. 

I  "  '  1 

r  t  ~i 

2.  Hannah  marr.  to  Robt  3.  Sarah  marr.  to  Edwd  Lindsale  of  Francis  died  un- 
Bollard,  of  Pansworth  in  Saffron  Walden  in  Essex,  brothr  to  married  circa,  an. 
Com.  Cambr.  John  Lindsell  of  Bossham  Com.  1660. 

Cambr. 

-  “1 

1.  Simon  Faulkes  2.  John  Faulkes  of  Cheveley=^Mary  daur.  of  Oliver  William  Faulkes  of  Mildenhall=f=Mary  daur.  of .  .  .  Ormes  sister  of 


died  unmarried. 


Com.  Cambr.  setat :  37  ann. 
1684. 


Pamphlin  of  Hadden-  in  Suff.  set.  circ.  32  an. 
ham  in  Ins.  Ely. 


i — i — i - 

1.  Simon  died  young. 


,  I  i  - 

1.  Elizabeth  eet.  14. 


- 1 — i — i - 

4.  Mary  set.  9  ann. 


Charles  Orme  of  Peterborough. 


2.  John  died  young.  2.  Mary  died  young.  5.  Cath :  set.  6  ann. 


7.  Barbara 
set.  1\. 


i  r 

1.  Charles  set.  7. 


2.  Simon  set.  1\. 


Mary  set. 
6  an. 


3.  Martin  set.  3  an.  3.  Francis  set.  11  an.  6.  Anne  set.  4  ann. 

From  “  The  Visitation  of  the  County  of  Cambridge  by  Sir  Henry  St.  George,  Clarencieux,  1684.”  “  This  volume,” 

writes  Cole,  “  I  began  to  copy  in  the  Heralds’  Office,  and  got  a  person  to  write  while  I  was  absent,  but  he  has  made 
infinite  mistakes.  However,  I  was  interrupted  by  the  exorbitant  demands  of  the  inferior  officers,  so  I  left  the  design 
unfinished.”  Cole’s  MSS.,  vol.  xxi,  pp.  iii  and  36b. 

P2 


112 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


prturjxrr,  jffolftrs  of  ftusproofc  anti  inlltngton. 


ffolkes  of  .  .  .=f 


William  ffolkes,  of  Newmarket,  co.  Suffolk.  Will,1 
P.C.C.  13  Vox,  7  Aug.  1493.  To  be  bur.  in  St. 
Martin’s  church  ;  names  Simon  ffolkes,  his  brother. 


;Margaret,  his 
wife ;  living 
1493. 


Simon  ffolkes,  of  Westley  Waterless,  co.  Cambridge. =f=Margaret,  his 


Will,  P.C.C.  34  Adeane,  8  April  1508. 
in  Westley  church. 


To  be  buried 


A 


wife ; 
1508. 


living 


Martin  ffolkes,  of  Westley  Waterless. = 
Will,  P.C.C.  24  Daper,  7  Oct.  1571  (see 
page  86)  ;  under  age  in  1508. 


Richard  andThomas  ffolkes,  Parnell, 

under  age  in  1508  ;  lands  in  apparently 
Burgh  and  Newmarket.  mar.  1508. 


- ! - 1 — | - 

Agnes,  Audrie  and 
the  elder,  Mary,  under 
1508.  age,  1508. 


Agnes,  the  younger ; 
under  age  1508. 


William  ffolkes  of  =pAgnes 
Westley  Water¬ 
less  ;  bur.  there 
19th  Oct.  1594; 
named  in  his  bro¬ 
thers’  Wills  1588, 

1591. 


Parnell,  Joan,  mar.,  1st,  Stephen  Ho- 
mar.  .  .  veil,  of  High  Hall,  in  Horn- 
Clarke  ;  ingsea  ( see  page  103),  and, 
living  2d,  Thomas  Willys.  A  quo 
1571.  Willys,  Baronets  ( see  page 
105). 


John  ffolkes,  of 
Swaffham  Bul- 
beck.  Will, 
P.C.C.  1591.  See 
Pedigree  A. 


Jane,=j=Thomas  ffolkes,  of— Anne  Rickes,  2d 


dau. 
of  .  . . 

1st  w. 


Newmarket.  Will, 
P.C.C.  1588  ;  mar. 
Ann  Goodwin,  wd., 
14  Oct.  1570. 


wife,  widow  of 
Thos.  Goodwin, 
LL.B.  Will,  Feb. 
1573,  Arch.  Sudb. 


Agnes  ffolkes,  dan.  and  coh.  mar.  Theodore  Goodwin, 
Esq.,  of  Stonham  Parva,  son  of  Thomas  Goodwin,  LL.B. 


Anne,  dau.  and  coh.,  mar.  John  Grange,  Orene  c.  Good¬ 
win,  Eliz.  B.and  A. ;  dead  1589.  Ped.,  Camb.  Visn.,  1619. 


Simon  ffolkes,  of  West- 
ley  Waterless ;  bapt. 
there  20  June  1562 ; 
mar.  Mary  .  .  .,  and 
had  issue. 


Elizabeth,  da.  of=f  Martin  ffolkes,  of  Rush-=pMargaret,  da.  of  Thomas 


Canham, 
of  Lowestoft, 1st 
w. ;  bur.  in  Nov. 
1621. 


brook,  Suff. ;  bapt.  at 
Westley,  1579.  Will,  24 
May  1637.  Buried  in 
Westley  church. 


Canham,  of  Thetford, 
gt.,  who  made  Will, P.C.C. 
10  Evelyn,  1638  ;  she  died 
1635,  bur.  at  Ruslibrook. 


Theodore 
ffolkes,  bur. 
at  Rushbrook 
3  Mav  1641. 


Francis  ffolkes,  in  holy 
orders ;  devisee  of  his 
kinsman  Edmd.  Mileson, 
1622 ;  living  1637. 


Martin  ffolkes,  of  Rush-=j=Elizabeth,  da.  of 


brook.  Will,  P.C.C.7  May 
1665;  prob.  1676 ;  bought 
lands  in  Lincolnshire, 
etc. ;  ob.  1671. 


Bourne,  of 
Bury  St.  Ed., 
gent.;  died  1687. 


Judith,  bapt.  1621;  mar. 
Edw.  Browne,  of  Lowes¬ 
toft,  and  had  s.,  Martin 
Bi’owne,  of  Rotterdam, 
who  ob.  s.p.  1711. 


Thomas  ffolkes,  of  Bols- 
over,  co.  Derby,  clerk. 
Will,  P.C.C.  84  Berkeley, 
8  June  1655  ;  mar.  and 
had  issue. 


T 


Simon  ffolkes,  bapt. 
1631 ;  of  Eckington, 
co. Derby,  clerk, 1655. 

Other  issue. 


Margaret,  bapt. 
1625 ;  mar.  John 
Clarke,  of  Bury 
St.  Ed.,  Esq. 


Martin  ffolkes,  of  Hill-=f  Dorothy,  dau.  &  Simon  ffolkes, =j=Elizabeth,  dau.  Thomas  ffolkes, =pSilence  Edward  ffolkes,  d.  1690. 


ington,  Norff. ;  born  at 
Rushbrook,  1640.  At- 
torney-Genl.  to  Cath¬ 
erine  of  Braganza ;  ob. 
17  Feb.  170f. 


coh.  of  Sir  Wm. 
Hovell,  of  Hill- 
ington,  Bart. ; 
her  Will,  P.C.C., 
was  pr.  in  1724. 


bapt.  at  Rush¬ 
brook,  1652. 


&  coh.  of  Samuel 
Hanson,  Esq. 


of  Barton  Hall, 
co.  Suffolk. 


Hanson, 
2d  wife. 


Elizabeth,  sole  dau.  &  hr.,  mar. 
Sir  Thomas  Berney,  Bart. 


Elizabeth,  dau.  &  hr.,  mar. 
Sir  Thomas  Hanmer ;  s.p. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  Jas.  Reeve. 
Anne,  mar.  John  Challis. 
Judith,  mar.  Jo.  Dickenson. 


Martin  ffolkes,  F.R.S.,  P.S.A. ;  William  ffolkes,  of  Hilling-1 
born  1690;  mar.  Lucretia  Brad-  ton ;  mar.,  1st,  Ursula,  dau. 
shaw;  died  1754,  bur.  at  Hill-  of  Samuel  Taylor,  by  whom 
ington  ;  had  with  other  issue  daughters. 


'Mary,  dau.  of  Sir 
William  Browne, 
M.D.,  of  King’s 
Lynn,  2d  wife. 


Henry  ffolkes, bap.=r  Anne,  da.  of 
at  St.  Giles  in  the  .  .  .  Muller. 
Fields,  1704. 

A  daughter. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  1694 ; 
mar.  Thomas  Payne, 
of  Hough  on  the  Hill, 
co.  Lincoln. 


Elizabeth,  bom  1722, 
dau.  and  coh.,  mar.  Sir 
Richard  Betenson. 


Sir  Martin  Browne  ffolkes,  of  Hill-=pFanny,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Sir 


ington,  F.R.S.,  created  a  Baronet, 
26  May  1774;  ob.  11  Dec.  1821. 


John  Turner,  Bart.,  of  War- 
ham,  Norfolk;  died  1813. 


Elizabeth  Payne,  m. 
Henry  Vernon,  of 
Thurlow,  co.  Suffolk. 


Ethelreda  Payne,  m. 
Sir  John  Cust,  Bart., 
Speaker  of  the  House 
of  Commons. 

I - - - - - 1 - - - ~T - 1 - 1 

Sir  William  John  Henry  Browne^Charlotte  Philippa,  dau.  of  Dominick  Fanny  Mary,  mar.  Anna  Mar-  Lucretia  Georgiana,  mar. 
ffolkes,  2d  Bart.,  F.R.S. ;  born  1786 ;  I  Geoffrey  Browne  and  sister  of  Dom-  Gilbert  Harvey  tina,  died  SirEdward  West, Chief  Jus- 
mar.  1818  ;  died  24  March  1860.  |  inick,  1st  Lord  Oranmore.  West,  died  1813.  1853.  tice  of  Bombay;  died  1828. 


Martin  William' 
Browne  ffolkes ; 
born  1819  ;  mar. 
1843 ;  ob.  1849. 


'Henrietta  Bridget, 
dau.  of  Gen.  Sir  C. 
Wale,  K.C.B.,  of 
Little  Shelford. 


William  John 
ffolkes;  born 
1820,  ob.  1867. 

Fanny  Louisa. 


George  Howe 
ffolkes  ofWol- 
ferton  ;  born 
1834  s.p, 


Rev.  Henry  Edward=pSophia  Louisa,  dau. 


ffolkes,  Rector  of 
Hillingtonjborn 
1823,  mar.  1850. 


of  the  Rev.  E. 
Browne  Everard,  of 
Burnham  Thorpe. 


MargaretC  harlotte, 
mar.  Francis  Hay 
Gurney,  of  Thick - 
thorn  ;  ob.  1899. 


A 


Sir  William  Hovell  Browne-rEmily  Charlotte,  dau.  of  Robert  Martin  William=j=Wilhelmina  Mary  Em-  Etheldreda  Isabella,  married 


ffolkes,  3d  Bart.,  of  Hilling- 
ton,  Norfolk ;  born  1847. 


Elwes,  of  Congham,  Norf. ;  mar. 
1875. 


Brown  ffolkes ; 
b.  19  July  1849. 


ily,  dau.  of  Lieut.-Col. 
J.  D.  Brett. 


Henry  Birkbeck,  of  Stoke  Holy 
Cross,  Norfolk,  who  died  1895. 


Dorothey,  born  21  June  1876. — Hon.  J.  Daunay,  eldest  son  of  Viscount  Downe. 


Audrey.  Barbara.  Cynthia  Mary. 


FFOLKES  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


113 


iPetrigm  jffolfccs  of  Cljcbrlrj). 


Martin  fiolkes,  of  Westley  Waterless,  co.  Cambridge.1 
Will,  P.C.C.  24  Daper,  7  Oct.  1571.  See  page  86. 


William  fiolkes,  of  Westley 
Waterless;  buried  there  19 
Oct.  1594.  A  quo  ffolkes,  of 
Rushbrook  and  Hillington. 


John  fiolkes,  of  Swaff-=f=Margaret  Ha-  Thomas  Willowes,=T=Joan  ffolkes, =j=Stephen  Ho 


A 


ham  Bulbeck,  co.  Cam¬ 
bridge.  Will,  1  Sept., 
proved  19  Nov.  1591. 
P.C.C.  73  Sainberbe. 


Anne,  mar. 
Thos.  Rav¬ 
en  of  Had- 
denham,co. 
Cambr. 


Mary,  mar. 
Allen  Phil¬ 
lips  ofNew- 
market,and 
had  issue. 


Agnes,  wife 
of  Michael 
Hancock, 
1642. 


Margaret,  mar. 
.  .  .  Greene,  of 
Swaffham  Bul¬ 
beck,  and  had 
issue. 


slewood,  mar. 
at  Westley  Wa¬ 
terless  15  June 
1566. 


of  High  Hall, 
in  Horningsea ;  2d 
husbd. 


survived  her 
2d  husband. 


A 


A  quo  Willys  of  Fenditton. 


veil,  of  High 
Hall,  Horn¬ 
ingsea,  1st 
husbd. 


Thomas  ffolk¬ 
es  held  Bur- 
well  Priory. 
Will,  1588. 


Julian,  mar. 
John  Wilkins. 
She  was  a 
widow  1642. 


1 


J 


Grace,  mar. 
Martin  Wil¬ 
kins  ;  was  a 
widow  1642. 


Edward  Hovell,  of  Ex- 
ning,  mar.  Elizabeth, 
sister  of  Oliver  Mor- 
den.  A  quo  Hovell 
of  Bury. 


Agnes,  his  dau. 
and  coh.,  mar. 
Theodore  Good¬ 
win,  Esq.  See 
vol.  i,  p.  235. 


I - 

Martin  ffolkes,  of  Laken-=pMary. 
heath,  Suffolk.  Will, 

P.C.C.  113  Soane,  1  Dec. 

1620. 

A 


Simon  ffolkes,  of  Cheveley,  Cambr., 
gent. ;  Lord  of  Burton’s  Manor  in 
Freckenham,  co.  Sufi.  Will,  P.C.C. 
93  Cambell ;  ob.  1642,  set.  76,  s.p. 


William  ffolkes,  of  Exning, =p  Anne,  dau.  of  Oliver 


Suffolk.  Will,  22  Jan.  163|, 
P.C.C.  60  Lee,  proved  2 
May  1638. 


Priscilla,  wife  of 
Richard  Mann¬ 
ing,  1637. 


Anne;  wife  of  .  .  . 
Sendon  or  (?)  Sen- 
dall;  1637. 


Philippa,  wife  of  George 
Westropp,  of  Exning, 
1637. 


Grace,  wife  of  John  Westropp, 
of  Chesterford,  co.  Cambridge, 
1637. 


Morden,  of  Exning  ; 
sister  and  devisee  of 
Philippa  Bourne  1639. 


Elizabeth, 
named  in 
her  father’s 
Will,  1591. 


Bridget,  wife  of  John  Bridge- 
man,  of  Newmarket,  co.  Suffolk, 
1637. 


William  ffolkes,  of  Kirtling,  co.=j=Mary  ^William  Fairclough,  2d  husb. ;  Simon  ffolkes,  of  Cheveley,  Camb.,=j=Frances,  dau.  of  John 


Camb.»;  died  before  1621 ;  1st 
husband. 


Frances,  sole  dau.  and  h.,  mar.  Rev. 
Samuel  Fairclough,  Fell.  Caius  Coll., 
Camb. ;  M.I.  in  Heveningham  ch., 
Suff. 


mar.  at  Westley  Waterless,  10 
May  1621. 


gent. ;  died  in  1669,  aged  circa.  50. 


Bridget,  mar.  Will¬ 
iam  Clayton  ofNew- 
market,  Suffolk. 


Hannah,  mar.  Robt. 
Bollard,  of  Pans- 
worth  in  Cambr. 


Sarah,  mar.  Edwd.  Linsdale, 
of  Saffron  Walden,  brother 
of  John  Linsdale, of  Bosham. 


Foiston,  of  Kennet,  co. 
Cambridge. 


Frances  ffolkes,  died 
unmarried. 


Simon  ffolkes,  son  and 


William  ffolkes, =j=Mary,  sister  of 


h. ;  a  lunatic,  1653.  Creke,  of  Kirtling,  co.  Camb.  Esq.;  born  1647; died  1708, 
ffolkes  c. ffollces,  Bridges,  Will,  P.C.C.  204  Browning,  aged  61;  entered  ped.  in 
484.  Ob.  1666.  M.I.  prov.  1719 ;  ob.  s.p.  Cambr.  Visitn.  1684.  M.I. 

in  Cheveley  chancel.  in  chancel. 

ver  Pamphlin,  of  of  Mildenhall, 
Haddenham,  in  co.  Suffolk ;  set. 
the  Isle  of  Ely ;  ob.  circa  32  in  1684. 
1687,  set.  41.  M.I. 

Charles  Orm- 
es  of  Peter¬ 
borough. 

i  T  t  r  ~r  ~r 

1.  Elizabeth,  2.  Mary,  3.  Frances,  set.  4.  Mary,  set.  5.  Catherine,  6.  Anne,  set. 

set.  14.  d.  young.  11,  1684.  9,  1684.  set.  6,  1684.  4,  1684. 

r-r  T 

i  r 

Barbara,  set.  1.  Charles,  set. 

li,  1684.  7,  1684. 

”1 

2.  Simon,  set. 
li,  1684. 

- - , 

1,  Simon  and,  2, 
John  died  young. 


3.  Martin  ffolkes,  of  Cheveley,  Esq.;  set.  3,  1684;=Frances,  dau.  of  Robert  Pennyng,  Esq.; 
ob.  1746,  set.  65.  M.I.  in  Cheveley  chancel.  ob.  31  Jan.  1713. 


Mary,  aged 
6,  1684. 


Cheveley.  “  On  the  north  wall  of  the  Chancel  is  a  mural  monument  of  stone  of  a  man  on  his  knees,  in  a  short 
cloak,  with  a  square  beard  and  a  cap  on  his  head,  under  an  arch,  and  over  it  is  this  coat,  viz :  a  single  Fleur  de  Lis, 
for  Folkes.  He  is  under  a  sort  of  canopy  supported  by  2  pillars,  and  in  the  compartiments  below  is  this  inscription 
with  the  following  verses : 

M.  S. 

Hie  requiescit  sub  Spe  Resurrectionis  Justorum  Simon  Folkes 
Gen :  qui  caslibem  vitam  agens,  Deo  optimo  Max :  &  Christo 
Servatori  serviens,  mullum  reliquit  Superstitem.  Obijt  Festo 
Sancti  Petri,  Anno  Dom’  1642.  JEtatis  76. 

Primitia  Sanctse  sequitur  sic  Sancta  Propago : 

Primitias  sanctas  ordine  quisque  suo  ” 


Cole’s  MSS.,  vol.  xviii,  fo.  116. 


jRottien  of  €rm»g. 


Will  ot  Joljn  JKcrtott,  1556* 

John  Murdun  of  Ixning  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  yeoman,  the  xxij  Oct.  1556.  Vnto 
Agnes  my  wyfe  the  howse  I  dwell  in  and  lands  in  Ixning,  and  all  my  lands  in  Stecheworth 
in  the  Countie  of  Cambridge.  After  hir  decease  Wiftm  my  sonne  to  haue  said  howse,  my 

leace  of  the  Parsonage  of  Ixning,  and  the  lands  he  now  occupieth  in  Wratting,  Weston  and 

Balshm.  Vnto  Thomas  my  sonne  the  howses  and  croft  bought  of  John  Dawbridge  and,  after 
my  wife’s  decease,  the  residue  of  my  arrable  lands.  The  free  lands  in  Stechworth  I  bequethe 

to  John  Murdon,  sonne  and  heire  of  Thomas  Murdon,  my  eldest  sonne,  deceased.  I  appoynte 

my  wyfe  executrix  and  William  and  Thomas  my  sonnes  executors.  Thomas  to  haue  the  leace 
of  farme  called  Aucycles  in  Ixning.  Probat  ix  ffeb.  1558  executory. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “Bell,”  fo.  580. 

The  will  of  William  Morden,  the  testator’s  son,  who  inherited  the  parsonage  of  Exning, 
and  who  died  in  1574,  will  be  found  in  abstract  on  page  87. 


William  Norton  an&  ^Frances  bis  itrife,  1575 — 1607. 

The  administration  of  the  goods  of  William  Morden,  late  of  Thurlow  Parva,  gentleman, 
was  granted  to  Frances  Morden  the  relict,  7th  October  1607.  Admons.,  Arch.  Sudb.  Book , 

1605—1612,  fo.  26. 

By  Fine  in  Michaelmas  term  17th  and  18th  Elizabeth  (1575),  William  Morden  and 

Frances  his  wife  sold  a  messuage  in  West  Wratting,  co.  Cambridge,  with  garden,  orchard,  and 
nine  acres  of  arrable  land,  to  John  Webb. 

In  a  visitation  pedigree  of  the  Soames  of  Suffolk,  Harl.  MS.  1560,  it  is  stated  that 
Frances,  the  sister  of  Sir  Stephen  Soame,  Alderman  of  London,  married  William  Morden,  of 
Carton,  in  com.  Cambridge.  Carton  or  Carlton  is  near  to  Thurlow  Parva.  In  his  will  (P.C.C., 

1  Soame,  1618)  Sir  Stephen  Soame  mentions  his  sister  Morden,  widow;  Stephen  Morden,  his 

godson,  son  of  J ohn  Morden,  deceased ;  and  the  children  of  Oliver  Morden.  Another  brother, 
Thomas  Soame,  of  Little  Bradley  in  Suffolk,  also  names  his  sister  Morden  in  his  will,  P.C.C., 
made  in  1606. 


MORDEN  OF  EXNING. 


115 


Mill  nf  John  JHorfon,  1612. 

The  sixteenth  daye  of  March,  1612,  John  Morden  of  the  parish  of  St.  Mary  A.udries  in 
the  Countie  of  Surrey,  clothworker ;  not  doubting  of  everlasting  life :  one  of  the  elect.  Vnto 
Olipher  Morden  ray  brother,  a  ringe  with  deaths  head.  George  Morden  my  brother.  Vnto 
Stephen  Morden  my  sonne  at  his  age  of  one  and  twentye  yeares ;  my  wife  to  give  him  a 
reasonable  porcon.  Vnto  Mary  my  wife,  whom  I  appointe  my  executrix,  all  my  goodes  :  she 
to  see  to  the  education  of  my  said  childe.  Mr  John  Scarburgh  and  Mr  John  Homes  my 
brothers  in  law  to  be  overseers.  Probatum  27°  Martij,  1613,  Juramento  Marie  Morden  relicte. 

P.C.C.  22  Capell. 

Stephen  Morden  was  a  godson  of  his  great  uncle,  Sir  Stephen  Soame  who  names  him 
and  his  late  father  in  his  will,  dated  1618. 


Abrnmistratton  of  M&W  Jttor&m,  1615. 

Emanavit  comissio  (xiij0  die  Julij,  1613)  Olivero  Morden  poae  beate  Marie  Abchurch, 
London,  Clothworker,  patruo  Stephani  Morden  et  Mari*  Morden,  liberoru  ni  &  it  Mari*  Morden 
nuper  poae  Sci  Salvator  in  burgo  de  Southwark  in  Com  Surrise,  vidu*  defunct*,  ad  adminis- 
trand  bona  die.  diet®  defunct*  duran  minori  *tate  liberoru.  Ad  novo  comiss  Aug.  1619. 

Admon  Act  Book,  P.C.C.  1611—1614. 


MtU  of  ©liber  Jftorbnt,  1621. 

Oliuar  Murdun  of  Exninge  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  4  April,  1621.  Vnto  Oliuer 

Mordun  my  sonne  the  Rectory  and  personage  of  Thurston,  which  I  lately  purchased,  he  to  pay 
yearely  27”  to  my  brother  ffrancis  for  twelve  yeares.  Vnto  my  sonne  John  two  hundreth 
pownds.  Vnto  my  sonne  William  Murdun  sixe  hundreth  powds.  Vnto  George  my  sonne  sixe 
hundreth  powndes  at  his  age  of  xxij  yeares.  Vnto  my  sonne  Martaine  all  my  howses  and 
land  at  Bart5  Mills,  also  the  howse  and  land  in  Burwell,  also  the  howse  where  my  brother 
Francis  dwelleth  after  his  decease.  Vnto  my  two  daughters  Anne  it  Phillipe  euery  one 
of  them  4001  at  their  ages  of  xx  yeares.  Vnto  Phillipe  my  wife  4001  :  she  not  to 

clayme  dowrie.  Vnto  my  dough  ter  Bryante  1001  and  my  daughter  Jhones  100’.  I  giue 
to  the  towne  of  Exnynge  eightene  lether  bucketts  and  one  hocke  fitt  for  the  pulling 

downe  of  a  howse  when  anie  casualty  shall  happen  by  fyre :  and  these  to  be  laid  in 

a  place  fittinge.  Willi  my  sonne  and  George  my  sonne  shalbe  broughte  vp  at  schole  and  my 
daughters  likewise.  The  rest  I  giue  to  Phillipe  my  wife  and  Oliver  my  sonne,  whome  I  make 
my  executors.  Robert  Turnor  and  John  Blumfeld,  fellowes  of  trinity  hall  in  Cambridge,  to  be 
sugvisors.  Probatum  10  Nov.  1624,  juramentis  Phillippe  Murdun  et  Oliver  Murdun  exec. 

P.C.C.  99  Byrde. 


116 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  (Skorge  JKoritett,  1624. 

The  25th  daye  of  August  1624,  George  Morden,  Cittizen  and  gouldsmith  of  London.  To 
be  buried  in  the  church  of  St.  Bride’s,  London,  as  nere  as  maybe  to  my  late  wife.  To  my 
sonne  John  Morden  and  my  daughter  Mary  Morden,  to  each,  4501,  at  their  ages  of  one  and 
twenty  yeares.  If  both  die  unmarried  before  said  age  sixe  hundretli  powndes  to  be  paied 
amonges  the  children,  now  under  age,  of  my  late  brother  Oliver  Morden,  and  the  other  300i 
amongst  the  children  of  my  father  in  lawe  Thomas  Harris.  Vnto  my  lovinge  mothe  frances 
Morden  tenn  powndes.  To  my  sister  Anne  Morden  the  some  of  tewnty  nobles.  Vnto  my 
lovinge  sisters  xxxs  a  peece  to  make  them  Ringes.  My  brother  Oliver  Morden’s  children  which 
are  with  there  mother.  William  Morden  my  kinsman  and  servant.  My  brother  in  lawe  Thomas 
Harris.  Mr  Thomas  Soame  and  Mr  Henry  Austyn  to  be  executors.  My  beloved  frende  John 
Morden  an  overseer.  Probatum  septimo  die  Sept.  1624  jur  Thome  Harris.  P.C.C.  78  Byrde. 

The  testator  was  the  son  of  William  Morden,  of  Little  Thurlow,  co.  Suffolk,  and  Frances 
his  wife,  sister  of  Sir  Stephen  Soame.  By  some  misunderstanding  he  is  called  “  Robert  ”  in  the 
London  Visitation  of  1665 — a  by  no  means  unprecedented  error.  The  brother  Oliver  was  not 
of  Exning,  as  has  been  too  readily  assumed,  but  of  the  parish  of  St.  Mary  Abchurch,  London. 
See  “Mary  Morden’s  Administration,  1613.” 


Will  of  ©Ufar  JKorfcn,  1626. 

Oliver  Morden  of  Swaffham  Bulbeck  co.  Cambridge,  Esquior,  21  March,  1626.  To  be 
buried  in  Exning  churchyard  at  the  south  end  of  my  fathers  tombe.  I  give  the  Parsonage 
and  Rectorie  of  Exninge  vnto  my  mother  Phillipp  Morden  of  Barton  Mills,  co.  Suffolke,  during 
her  widdowhood,  and  after  her  widdowhood,  vnto  my  brother  John  Morden.  Vnto  my  brother 
George  Morden  threscore  pounds  yearelie.  Vnto  William  Morden  my  brother  3001.  Vnto  my 
mother  the  profits  of  the  Parsonage  of  Thurston,  co.  Suffolke,  for  tenne  yeares ;  and  then  to 

Martin  Morden  my  brother,  with  my  houses  in  Barton  Mills,  my  lands  in  Burwell,  and  my 

ffishinge  houlden  of  the  Manor  of  Baldwin’s  ats  Lees  in  Reach  Lode,  co.  Cambridge.  Vnto 
Phillippa  Morden,  my  mother,  my  house  now  in  buildinge  in  Exninge,  with  arrable  lands  for 
life,  and  after  her  decease  to  John  Morden  my  brother.  To  my  mother  3001  towards  buildinge 
said  houses  according  to  the  plott  allready  taken.  To  the  said  John  my  two  shoppes  in 
Newmarkett.  To  William  Carrowe  and  Alice  his  wief,  tenement,  dove  house,  croft,  orchard,  Ac., 
in  Swaffham  Bulbecke  in  the  occupacon  of  John  Prime.  Vnto  Thomas  Morden,  boxe  maker 
and  Cittizen  of  London,  151.  Vnto  Susan  Bryant  my  sister  3001,  and  my  brother  John  Bryant 
her  husband.  Vnto  my  sister  Anne  Morden  3001  when  twenty  one.  Vnto  my  sister  Phillipp 

Morden  3001.  House  in  Exninge  adioyninge  the  church  yard  to  the  Churchwardens,  and  to 

Mr  Henry  Vernon,  gent.,  William  ffolkes  senr,  John  Westropp  senr,  Robert  Shellie,  and  Edward 
Bridgman,  as  ffeoffees  in  trust  to  place  poore  men  or  women  in.  Also  another  house  to  the 
same  vses.  To  the  poore  of  Exning  61  ;  of  Newmarket  41 ;  of  Swaffham  31.  My  mother  and 
John  Morden  my  brother  to  be  executors :  they  to  give  bond  for  20001.  To  my  cosen  John 
Morden  of  Exninge  51 ;  my  cosen  William  Morden  51 ;  William  ffabian  51.  John  Chenery  a 
witness.  Probat.  20°  die  Aprilis  1627,  jur  Johis  Morden  fratris.  Postea  6°  die  Junij  1627 
jur  Phillippe  Morden  Matris.  .  P.C.C.  40  Skynner. 


MORDEN  OF  EXNING. 


117 


Iwptisttion  mt  tl)£  toatb  of  flo JHorto,  1655. 

Cantebr.  Inq  capta  apud  Cantebr  vicessimo  nono  die  Julij  anno  regni  Dili  Caroli,  Angl, 
Ac.  Regis  deciino  post  mortem  Rof>5i  Murden  gen  p  sacrm  Ac.  Qui  dicunt  qd  pd  Rofus  diu 
ante  obit  suit  fuit  seit  de  vno  Capital  mesuag  vocat  Bonyvants  als  Bullyvants  in  Fenditton ;  ac 
de  diusis  inclis  terr  continen  centum  acr  in  Fenditton,  Horningsey  &  Teversham  in  dco  Corn 
Cantebr ;  necnon  de  libtate  ffaldagij  in  Fennditton,  etc.  nug  Joins  Wood  mil;  ac  de  vno  mesuag 
iacen  in  Soham  in  quodam  vico  ibm  vocat  Townestreete ;  ac  de  horsecroft  close  in  Soham  A 
ffordham ;  ac  de  libtate  foldagii  in  Soham  nug  Elizabeth  Gray  vid  &c.  &c.  ;  ac  de  quindecim 
acr  (t  dimid  terr  in  campis  de  Reche  &  Burwell ;  ac  de  vno  clauso  pasture,  etc.,  in  West 
Wrattinge  in  Com  fid  Ac.  Idem  Ro$us  Murden  postea,  scitt  decimo  quarto  die  Aprilis  vlt 

condidit  testamentum.  Voluit  ofnia  fimissa  in  Fenditton,  Horningsey,  Teversham,  Burwell  <fc 
West  Wratting  cuidam  Join  Murdon  filio  suo  sen  A  hered  suis.  Et  vltius  devisavit  in  his 

Anglicanis :  I  give  vnto  Robert  Murden  my  sonne  my  ffreehold  messuage  with  gardens,  lands, 
meadowes,  Ac.,  in  Soham,  in  Churchgate  Streete,  etc.  etc.  Vnto  Roger  Murden  my  sonne  my 

demeasne  land,  itc.,  in  Soham :  his  education,  <tc.,  to  be  provided  for  by  my  executor. 

Constituit  Thomam  Hayward  executor.  Obijt  seit  inde  decimo  octavo  die  Aprilis  vlt.  Jobes 
Murden  est  filius  et  px  hered  fidict  Ro$i.  Sexto  die  Aprilis  vlt  fuit  etat  sexdecim  anno£. 
Capital  mes  voc  Bullyvant’s  A  centum  acr  terr  Ac.  tenebantur  mo  do  de  Robto  Heath  mil 
Capital  Justic  Dni  Regis  in  Banco  vt  de  MaSio  suo  de  Soham,  Ac.  Ac  fid  quindecim  acr  & 
dimid  terr  in  Burwell  Si  Reche  tenentur  de  Dna  Regina  vt  de  MaSio  suo  de  Burwell. 

On  a  black  marble  slab  covering  an  altar  tomb  in  Soham  churchyard  is  the  following 
inscription  to  Robert  Morden,  the  testator’s  son  : — - 

“  Hie  in  adventum  Domini  mortalitatis  hasce  exuvias  quas  pie  deposuit  reponi  voluit 
Robertus  Morden  filius  Rogeri  Morden,  Generosi :  obijt  quarto  Non  :  Septembr  anno  AErte 
Christiana  1679,  setatis  sme  54.  Coles’  MSS.,  ix,  98. 


Mill  of  Holm  JEorftnt,  16S6. 

John  Morden  of  Bradley  Magna,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  12th  August  1686.  Unto  John 

Morden  my  sonne  and  his  heirs  my  lands,  houses,  messuages,  &c.,  in  Fenditton,  Horningse, 

Teversham,  Soham,  Burwell  and  West  Wratting  in  the  County  of  Cambridge,  at  his  age  of 
one  and  twenty  yeares  :  he  to  pay  annuity  to  Anne  my  wife.  Unto  the  said  John  £30  yearly 

until  he  is  twenty  one,  for  his  education,  Ac.  Unto  Frances  Hasell,  my  daughter,  £500.  My 

four  other  children  John,  Anne,  Catherine  and  Beata.  Unto  Anne,  my  daughter,  £1,500  at  her 
age  of  twenty  one.  Vnto  Catherine,  my  daughter,  messuages,  barnes,  meadowes,  Ac.,  in  Cowledge, 
co.  Suffolk,  in  various  tenures.  Unto  Beata,  my  daughter,  houses,  lands  and  woods  in  Posling- 
ford  and  Stansfield  in  Suffolk.  Unto  John  my  sonne  a  messuage  in  Cowledge  late  purchased 
of  Mr.  Castleton.  Unto  Anne  my  wife  £80  yearely  out  of  all  lands  in  Cambridgeshire.  Wife 
to  be  sole  executrix,  and  my  couzin  Thomas  Heyward  sugvisor.  Probatum  3  May  1687  Jura- 
mento  Annse  Morden  viduse  et  unice  executoris. 

P.C.C.  65  Foot, 

Q 


118 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ffiljanrm)  Depositions,  JJtor&en  t.  JKortien,  1585. 

The  interrogatories  on  the  part  of  Nicholas  Mordon,  plaintiff,  and  of  Robert  Morden  and 
Barbara  his  wife,  defendants,  elicited  the  following  statements 

John  Morden,  of  Exning,  grandfather  to  Robert  Morden  the  defendant,  and  great  grand¬ 
father  to  Nicholas  Morden  the  plaintiff,  died  circa  1558  ( see  his  will  on  page  1 14).  He  had 
previously  settled  a  messuage  in  Weston  and  West  Wratting,  in  Cambridgeshire,  upon  John 
Morden  the  younger,  also  of  Exning,  his  second  son. 

This  John  Morden  the  younger  was  father  of  Robert.  He  died  early,  and  Johan  his 
widow,  Robert’s  mother,  remarried  one  Oliver  Thorneton. 

The  tenants  of  the  Wratting  messuage  acknowledged  John  Morden  the  younger  as  their 
landlord.  After  his  death  it  was  held  by  Johan,  his  widow  :  and  when  she  died  it  passed  to 
Robert  Morden,  her  son.  There  was  another  house  in  Wratting  which  William  Morden,  brother 
of  John  the  younger,  inherited  from  their  father.  One  William  Morden  (so  it  is  deposed)  still 
has  the  lease  of  the  land  at  variance. 

Nicholas  Morden,  the  plaintiff,  claims  to  be  “cousin”  (that  is,  blood  relation)  and  next 
heir  to  John  Morden,  of  Exning,  his  great  grandfather. 

Mitford  Depositions,  680,  Moredon  c  Moredon,  and  681,  Mordan  c.  Mordan. 

The  will  of  Robert  Morden,  of  Soham,  was  proved  at  Bury  in  1591.  He  bequeaths  the 
house  he  lives  in,  with  its  lands,  to  Barbara  his  wife,  with  remainder  to  Henry  his  son ; 
his  houses,  etc.,  in  West  Wratting  to  Roger  his  son;  pastures,  etc.,  in  Soham  to  John  his 
son ;  and  monies  to  Anne,  his  daughter,  when  she  marries,  or  comes  of  age. 


® battery  Will,  JHorta  r.  JHorbnt,  jFrb.  1674-5. 

Mary  Morden,  the  plaintiff,  was  widow  of  Oliver  Morden,  of  Exning,  co.  Suffolk,  gentle¬ 
man,  son  of  John  Morden,  who  had  held  the  Rectory  there,  with  the  Parsonage  house,  tythes 
and  glebe  lands,  of  the  yearly  value  of  £500  or  £600,  of  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Canterbury. 
About  May  1663  (15th  Chas.  I)  the  said  Oliver,  with  John  Morden  his  brother  and  Mary  his 
sister,  wife  of  William  Raymond,  of  Newton,  co.  Cambridge,  were  seized  for  their  three  lives 
of  this  Rectory,  etc.  By  Indenture,  dated  the  19th  of  that  month,  in  consideration  of  her 
considerable  portion,  he  settled  said  Rectory  upon  trustees  for  plaintiff’s  use.  In  1668,  being 
straitened  for  money,  they  mortgaged  it  to  Oliver  Morden,  of  Wicken,  co.  Cambridge,  gent. 
In  May  1674  John  Morden  the  brother  died,  and  Oliver,  of  Wicken,  put  in  a  life  in  his 
room.  He  has  now  gotten  all  the  deeds,  etc.,  into  his  possession,  and  refuses  to  pay  the  £30 
per  annum  which  he  covenanted  to  allow  her.  Morden  c  Morden,  Whittington,  480. 

In  the  pedigre  of  Ho  veil  of  Bury  (see  page  103),  it  is  inexactly  stated  that  Oliver 
Morden,  of  Exning,  brother  to  Margaret  Hovell,  was  ancestor  to  Lord  Suffield.  Subsequent 
researches  have  shown  that  the  lineage  of  that  peer,  as  hitherto  accepted,  was  based  upon 
imperfect  information.  He  derives  from  John  Morden,  Margaret  Hovell’s  uncle.  Her  brother, 
therefore,  was  his  collateral  ancestor  only.  See  the  Morden  pedigree  on  the  next  page. 


MORDEN  OF  EXNING. 


119 


Prtrigm,  fHortmt  of  Cjrmng. 


=John  Mordon,  of  Exiling,  co.  Suffolk.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.^p Agnes,  liis  widow.  Will,  Arch. 


22  Oct.  1556,  proved  Feb.  1558.  Hold  Exning  parsonage. 
Lands  in  West  Wrattiug,  Weston,  etc.,  co.  Camb. 


Sudb.  13  Jan.  1562,  prob.  3  May 
1567. 


Thomas  Morden, 
eldest  son,  died  in 
his  father’s  life¬ 
time,  leaving  a 
son,J  ohnMorden. 


John  Morden,  of  Exning, 
2d  son  of  John.  Joan, 
his  wd.,  renupt.  Oliver 
Thorneton.  Morden  c. 
Morden,  Mitford  Depcone. 


Robert  Morden, =pBarbara. 
of  Soham,  co. 

C  ambridge . 

Will, Arch. Sudb. 

8  Aug.  1590. 


Thomas  Morden, 
exor.,  1574,  to  his 
father,  who  left 
him  the  manor  of 
Biggin,  etc. 


William  Morden,  of  Fen-r 
ditton.  Will,  P.C.C.  30 
Martyn,  24  May  1574. 
Parsonage  of  Exning, 
Manor  of  Biggyn,  etc. 


-Alice,  relict  of 
•  ■  •  JufTge,  by 
whom  issue  : 
she  was  living 
24  Mav  1574. 


!— ! - 

Alice,  wife  of  .  .  . 
Revell,  1562,1574. 

Joan,  wife  of  .  .  . 
Winterflood,  1562. 


Thomas  Morden,  the 
younger,  living  1562, 
having  sons  George 
and  John  Morden,  & 
a  wife  Elizabeth  M. 


Francis 
Morden, 
beyond 
the  seas 
1574. 


u — rr 


t — i — r 


Humfrey  Morden.  Elizabeth  Morden,  1574. 
Edward  Morden.  Joan  Morden,  1574. 

Henry  Morden.  Frances  Morden,  1574. 


Mary  Morden,  1574, 
to  go  to  Cambridge 
“  to  learn  to  sewe.” 


Roger  Morden,  of  So¬ 
ham,  gent.  Inq.  p.m. 
10  Car.  Lands  in 
Fenditton,  etc.,  co. 
Camb.  Will  dated 
14  April  1635. 


Oliver  Morden,  of  Exning,  gent.‘ 
Will,  P.C.C.  99  Byrde  4  April 
1621,  prob.  Nov.  1624.  Held  the 
parsonage  of  Thurston  of  the 
Crown,  and  lands  in  Barton 
Mills,  etc.  Inq.  p.m.  22  Jas.  I. 


John  Morden,  of  Great=j=Anue 


Deres- 

ley. 


Bradley,  co.  Suffolk ; 
who  made  Will,  P.C.C. 

65  Foot  1686 ;  lands  in 
Fenditton,  etc.  A  quo 
the  Harbords,  Barons 
Suffield.  /tx 

Morden  of  Gt.  Bradlry. 


Oliver  Morden,  of  Swaff- 
ham  Bulbeck,  co.  Camb., 
Esq.,  s.  and  heir ;  held  the 
parsonages  of  Exning  &  of 
Thurston,  co.  Suff.  Will, 
P.C.C.  40  Skyyner,  21 
Mar.  1626.  Inq.  p.m.  3 
Car.  I,  ob.  s.p. 


‘Philippe,  dau.  of  John  Chenerie,  of  Bar-  Katherine,  wife 
ton  Parva,  co.  Suff.,  who  made  Will,  Arch,  of  ....  Sell, 
Sudb.,  7  Oct.  1624,  and  of  Phillippe,  his  1574,  by  whom 
wife,  who  remar.  Richd.  Drury,  of  Reach,  a  son,  William 
(vol.  i,  p.  364).  She  made  Will,  Arch.  Sell. 

Sudb.,  10  April  1636. 


Margaret,  wife  of 
Edward  Hovell, 
of  Exning,  and 
after  of  Bury  St. 
Eds.  See  note  at 
foot  of  page  118. 


- , - 

William  Morden, 
admitted  to  Cains 
Coll.  Camb.  1618; 
B.A.  162f,  M.A. 
1626  ;  bur.  at  St. 
Clements,  Cam¬ 
bridge,  4th  Oct. 
1628. 


George  Morden,  in 
Holy  Orders,  1644. 
Morden  c.  Morden. 
Chas.  I,  B.  and  A. ; 
devisee  of  Oliver 
Morden,  his  bro¬ 
ther,  1626 ;  living 
1639. 


Susan,  wife  of  John 
Bryant  1621.  Her 
mother,  Phillippe 
Morden,  by  her  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  1636, 
left  her  houses  and 
lands  in  Bury  St. 
Edmunds. 


.  .  .  Jhones, 
named  in 
Oliver  Mor¬ 
den’  s  Will, 
1621. 


John  Morden,  of  Exning, =f=Margaret,  bur. 


gent.,  heir  to  his  brother, 
Oliver  Morden, 1627.  Par¬ 
sonage  of  Exning,  etc. 
Will,  P.C.C.  24  July  1654; 
prob.  24  Dec.  1659. 


at  Exning  15 
April  1670. 
Cole’s  MSS.  1, 
177,  but  query. 


Anne,  wife  of  Wil¬ 
liam  ffolkes,  of 
Exning,  who  made 
Will  22  Jan.  1637. 
A  quo  Folkes  of 
Cheveley. 


Philippe,  wife  of  John 
Bourne,  of  Cambridge, 
gent.  Her  Will,  P.C.C. 
1639,  names  her  bro¬ 
thers  and  sisters  Mor¬ 
den. 


Martin  Morden,  of  Exning, = 
gent.  Will,  P.C.C.  38  Goare 
4  Feb.,  prov.  9  Feb.  1635. 
Rector  of  Thurston.  M.I. 
at  Exning. 


‘Alice,  his  wife,  liv¬ 
ing  in  1679,  when 
her  son,  Oliver 
Morden  made  his 
will. 


Oliver  Morden,  of  Exning, = 
gent. ;  sold  the  Rectory  of 
Exning  to  Oliver  Morden,  of 
Wicken,  his  cousin ;  dead 
1674.  M.I.  at  Exning. 


=Mary,  his  widow,  plain¬ 
tiff  in  Morden  c.  Morden, 
Whittington  480 ;  was 
wife  of  .  .  .  Casborne  in 
1679. 


John  Morden,  Vicar  of 
Lindsell, in  Essex, 1666- 
1674 ;  bur.  at  Exning,  2 
June  1674.  Cole’s  MSS., 
vol.  i,  177 .  M.I.  there. 


Mary,  wife  of 
William  Ray¬ 
mond, of  New¬ 
ton,  co.  Cam¬ 
bridge,  1674. 


Oliver  Morden,  of  Wic-=fEliza- 
beth. 

Will,  P.C.C.  62  Bath,  18  ' 

Nov.  1679.  Rectories  of 
Thurston  and  Exning. 


— l 
. .  .  ux. 
. . .  Jer¬ 
vis,  by 
whom 
issue. 


I 

Oliver  Morden,  of  Exning,  gent.  Will,  P.C.C.  14  Box, 
13  Dec.  1693,  proved  18  Jan.  following. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of  Mr.  Robert  Day,  devisee 
of  her  brother  Oliver  Morden,  1693. 


Anne  Morden,  named,  1679, 
in  her  father’s  will. 


On  the  sides  of  a  handsome  altar  tomb  of  black  marble  in  Exning  churchyard  are  the  following  inscriptions : — 

“  Here  lieth  ye  Body  of  Oliver  Morden,  Gent,  son  of  John  &  Margarot  Morden,  who  died  ye  16th  of  June,  1674. 

“  Martin  ye  youngest  son  of  Oliver  &  Philip  Morden,  Gent,  buryed  Feb.  4th  1659.  John  their  2d  son,  Gent,  buried 
Octo :  29,  1659.  Margaret,  ye  wife  of  John  Morden,  buried  April  15,  1670.  John  Morden,  Vicar  of  Lyndse,  in  Essex, 
buried  June  2,  1674. 

“  Oliver,  son  of  Martin  Morden,  Gent,  buried  Nov.  22,  1679,  Aged  45  years.  Near  vnto  this  place  lieth  the  Body  of 
.  .  .  .  Morden,  aged  29  years,  1663.” 

Cole’s  MSS.,  vol.  i,  171. 


120 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


IDrtugrrr,  JBorfcm  of  <0rrat  35 r at> Ir jy» . 


-f-Jolni  Morden,  of  Exiling,  co.  Suffolk.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  22  Oct.=j=Agnes,  his  widow.  Will, 
I  1556,  proved  Feb.  1558.  Held  Exning  parsonage  ;  lands  in  West  |  Arch.  Sudb.  13  Jan.  1562, 


j  Wratting,  Weston,  etc.,  co.  Camb. 


Thomas  Morden, 
s.  and  h.,  ob.  vita 
patris ;  leaving  a 
son,JohnMorden. 


John  Morden,  of  Exning,  2d  son.  Mor-- 
den  c.  Morden,  Mitford  Depcons.,  680, 
681;  lauds  in  West  Wratting  and 
Weston  ;  ob.  vita  patris. 


:Jolian,  his  wife, —Oliver 
survived  her  first  Thorne- 
husband  six  or  ton,  2d 
seven  years.  husb. 


proved  3  May  1567. 

i — 1 

William  Morden,  of  Fenditton,  co.  Camb. 

Will,  P.C.C.  30  Martyn,  24  May  1574,  pro¬ 
bate  8  July  following;  Rectory  of  Exning; 
Manor  of  Biggyn.  ^ 

Morden  of  Exning. 


Robert  Morden,  of  Soham.co.  Cambridge.1 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  8  Aug.  1590,  prob.  28 
May  1591 ;  lands  in  West  Wratting,  etc. ; 
had  with  other  issue  : — 


'Barbara,  —Henry  Seaman,  of  Soham, 
his  wife.  2d  husb.  Will,  P.C.C.  1607; 

names  the  Mordens,  his 
step-children. 


William  Morden,  of  Wratting=p Frances,  sister  &  devisee 


and  Little  Thurlow.  Admon. 
Arch.  Sudb.  2607 ;  sold  lands 
by  Fine,  1576. 


of  Sir  Stephen  Soame, 
Alderman  of  London, 
who  made  Will,  P.C.C. 
1  Soame,  1618. 


RogerMorden,  of  Soham,  gent.: 
Inq.  p.m.  10  Car.  Will,  14 
April  1635  ;  lands  in  Fendit- 
tou,  West  Wratting,  Burwell, 
etc. ;  had  wih  other  issue  : — 


i - - - " 

Oliver  Morden,  of 
St.  Mary  Abchurch, 
London,  clothwork- 
er  funcle  of  Stephen 
Morden,  1613. 


George  Morden,  of  Lon¬ 
don,  goldsmith.  Will, 
P.C.C.  25  Aug.  1624  ;  to 
be  bur.  in  St.  Brides’ 
church,  near  late  wife. 


Mary,  dau. 
of  Thomas 
Harris  ;  d. 
before  25 
Aug.  1624. 


John  Morden,  of  St.=pMary,  Admon. 


Mary  Overies,  South¬ 
wark.  Will,  P.C.C. 
16  March  1612,  pr.  27 
March  1613. 


P.C.C.  1613, 
July  13,  to  Ol¬ 
iver  Morden, 
of  London. 


John  Morden,  of  Groat 
Bradley,  co.  Suffolk,  gent., 
s.  and  h. ;  born  1618.  Lands 
in  Fenditton,  etc.  Will, 
P.C.C.  12  Aug.  1686; 
probt.  1687.  M.I. 


Anne,  dau.  of  Walter 
Deresley,  gent.,  who 
made  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.  1678.  Her 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb. 
1702  ;  probt.  1711. 


Robort  Morden,  gent., 
born  1625 ;  ob.  Sept. 
1679.  set.  54.  M.I.  on 
altar  tomb  in  Soham 
churchyd.  Will,  P.C.C. 
146  King. 


Sir  John  Morden,  Bart., — Susan,  dau.  of  Jo- 


born  1623 ;  founded 
Morden  College.  Will, 
P.C.C.  213  Barrett, 
1702,  pr.  6  Oct.  1708 ; 
ob.  s.p.,  ast.  85. 


seph  Brand,  Esq., 
of  Edwardstone, 
co.  Suff.  Will, 
P.C.C.  6  May  1717; 
ob.  s.p. 


Stephen  Morden, 
only  son  ;  godson 
and  devisee  of  his 
great  nncle,  Sir 
Stephen  Soame, 
1618. 


John  Morden,  of  Great  Bradley=f=Judith,  eld.  dau.  and  coh.  of  William  Cropley,  of 


and  after  of  Suffield,  Norfolk, 
gent.  Will,  P.C.C.  1726  ;  cousin 
and  devisee  of  Sir  John  Mor¬ 
den,  1702. 


Haughley,  Suffolk,  by  Catherine,  dau.  of  Sir  Chas. 
Harbord,  Kt.,  and  sister  and  coheir  of  Harbord 
Cropley  Harbord,  Esq.,  and  of  Sir  Chas.  Harbord, 
who  is  bur.  in  Westminster  Abbey. 


Frances,  wife  of  John 
Hasell,  of  Bottisham, 
Cambr.,  gent.,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C.  113 
Dyer,  20  Jan.  1700. 


“i — r~ 

Anne. 

Cath- 


Beata  Morden, 
named  as  exe¬ 
cutrix  in  her 
brother’s  Will, 
25  Oct.  1726. 


Sir  William  Morden,  eld.  s. ;  created=pElizabeth,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Robert 


a  Baronet  1745;  inherited  estates  of 
maternal  uncle,  and  assumed  name 
of  Harbord,  1742  ;  died  17  Feb.  1770. 


Robert  Britiffe,  Esq.,  M.P.  Morden, 
of  Baconsthorpe,Norf.;  mar.  living 
1732;  d.  1777.  1726. 


Catherine, 
devisee  of 
brother  Sir 
Wm.  Har¬ 
bord,  1769. 


Judith,  Rev.  Thomas  Morden,  bapt.=j=Eliza- 
living  1710 ;  Rector  of  Cantley,  beth. 
1726.  Norfolk,  1736 ;  of  Caius 
Coll.,  Camb.,  1726. 


Sir  Harbord  Harbord,  2d  Baronet ;  -pMary.  eld.  dau.  and  coh.  Robert  Harbord,  named 


born  Jan.  1734;  created  Baron  Suf¬ 
field,  of  Suffield,  Norfolk ;  died 
4  Feb.  1810. 


of  Sir  Ralph  Assheton,  in  his  father’s  Will,  10 
Bart.;  mar.  7  Oct.  1760;  Nov.  1769. 
died  1  June  1823. 


Catherine  Morden,  de¬ 
visee  of  her  uncle,  Sir 
Wm.  Harbord,  1769. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  1738 ; 
mar.,  1754,  Rev.  Thos. 
Carthew,  of  Wood- 
bridge,  Suffolk. 


L 


William  Assheton  Harbord,  2d 
Baron  Suffield  ;  born  1766  ;  mar., 
1792,  Lady  Caroline  Hobart,  dau. 
of  John,  2d  Earl  of  Buckingham¬ 
shire;  died  s.p.  1821. 


- - — - p- — - 

Georuiana,  dau.  and=i=Edward,  3d  Baron  Suf-' 


heiress  of  George,  2d 
LordVernon,  1st  wife; 
mar.  1809,  died  1824. 


field  ;  born  1781 ;  died  6 
July  1835,  having  with 
other  issue : — 


;Emily  Harriot,  dau.  of 
Evelyn  Shirley,  of  Et- 
tington  Park,  co.  War¬ 
wick  ;  mar.  1826 ;  died 
1881. 


Mary,  mar. 
Sir  George 
Armitage, 
Bart.,  1783. 


Edward  Yernon,  4th 
Baron  Suffield,  born 
1813 ;  mar.  1835,  Char¬ 
lotte  Susannah,  only 
dau.  of  Alan,  2d  Lord 
Gardner ;  ob.  1853,  s.p. 


Georgiana  Mary,  mar., 
1st,  George  Edward 
Anson,  C.B.,  and,  2dly, 
CharlesEdward  Booth- 
by,  Esq. 


Sir  Charles  Harbord,' 
Bart., 5th  Baron  Suffield; 
born  1830;  sue.  his  half 
brother,  1853  ;  mar.  4 
May  1854,  and  has  issue. 


'Cecilia  Annetta, 
dau.  of  Henry 
Baring,  &  sister 
of  Edward,  1st 
LordRevelstoke. 


A 


- ! - 

William  Harbord, 
4th  son  ;  born  1831 ; 
mar.  1855, Gertrude, 
2d  dau.  of  Charles 
Dennis,  and  has 
issue. 


— r~i 

Louisa, 
died  1838. 

Catherine,  m. 
J.  Petre  1802. 

- 1 

Rev.  John  Morden, 
5th  son  ;  born  1832 ; 
mar.  1857,  Caroline, 
dau.  of  Anthony  Ha- 
mond,  Esq.,  of  West- 
acre,  and  has  issue. 


The  Arms  allowed  to  Sir  John  Morden  at  the  London  Visitation  of  1664 — Argent,  a  fleur-de-lis  Gules — were  those 
borne  by  Mordon,  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  in  1368.  Lord  Suffield  bears : — Quarterly  1  and  4,  quarterly  Azure  and 
Gules,  four  lions  rampant  Argent,  and  in  the  centre  an  imperial  crown  Or,  for  Harbord ;  2  and  3  Morden,  as  above. 


«j()tttng  of  ©aolngli. 


Armorial  Hearings. 

The  arms  which  accompany  the  Whiting  pedigree  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664  are 
three  chevrons  on  a  shield  (Harl.  MS.  1085).  They  are  more  fully  described  in  the  contemporary 
manuscript  formerly  in  the  possession  of  Sir  John  Blois,  so  frequently  quoted  by  Jermyn  and 
Davy,  as  Sable,  three  chevrons  Argent. 

Thomas  Whiting  of  Boxford,  who  heads  the  pedigree  in  the  Candler  MSS.,  was  probably 
descended  from  the  clothmakers  of  the  name,  who  had  lived  there  for  some  generations.  He 
may  even  have  been  the  “  Thomas  Whiting,  son  of  Thomas  Whiting  of  Boxford,”  who  entered 
Caius  College  in  1573  ;  but  this  is  doubtful.  Sir  Edward  Bysshe  has,  perhaps  mistakenly, 
described  him  as  of  Norfolk. 

The  Hadleigh  Whitings  are  especially  remarkable  for  their  near  relationship  to  a  very 
unusual  number  of  the  early  emigrants  to  New  England.  Besides  their  pedigree  entered  at  the 
Heralds’  College  in  1664,  they  and  their  connections  are  very  fully  dealt  with  by  Matthias 
Candler,  their  neighbour  and  contemporary,  in  his  Manuscripts,  now  in  the  Bodleian  Library  and 
the  British  Museum. 


Mill  of  foljn  Minting,  1057. 

The  second  daie  of  Aprill,  1637,  John  Whiting  of  Hadley  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  mercer. 
To  Rose  my  loveing  wife  my  landes  and  tenementes  in  Naughton  (Newton)  and  Neging  for  her 
life,  vpon  Condicon  that  shee  seale  a  Release  vnto  my  sonnes  John  and  Henry  of  all  her  thirdes 
or  Dower  of  the  rest  of  my  landes  and  howses.  And  after  her  decease  I  give  said  landes  and 
tenementes  vnto  John  Whiting  my  sonne.  Vnto  the  said  John  my  landes  in  Layom  (1  Layham), 
and  a  Mill  there  vnto  belonging  called  Coe  mill,  my  howse  wherein  I  dwell  in  Hadly,  and  the 
pece  of  ground  near  Tapsall  bridge.  To  Henry  Whiting  my  sonne  my  howse  and  land  in 
Bramford  and  the  some  of  Seaven  Hundred  poundes.  To  Rose  my  wife  ffiftie  poundes.  Vnto 
Marie  Coper  my  daughter  fortie  poundes.  Ynto  Henry  Whiting  my  sonne  my  part  of  a  Shep 
called  the  Roebuck  and  my  coppyhold  howse  at  Carsy;  he  to  pay  to  his  mother  Tenn  poundes  a 
yeere  during  her  widowhood.  Vnto  Robert  Payne  my  sonne  in  lawe  my  howse  and  land  in 
Newton  called  the  Saracens  Head  dureing  his  life,  and  after  his  death  to  John  Payne  my  grand¬ 
child.  Robert  Payne  to  assure  to  his  twoe  sonnes  that  he  had  by  my  daughter,  John  and  Robert 
Payne,  thirty  poundes  a  pece  more  as  he  stand  bound  to  doe  vpon  marriage.  To  Thomas 

U 


122 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Whiteing  my  grandchild  Twentie  poundes  to  be  layd  out  in  plate  for  him.  To  Hanna  Proctor 
my  grandchild  twenty  nobles.  To  John  Payne  my  grandchild  fortie  poundes,  And  to  Robert 
Payne  my  granchild  twentie  nobles,  And  to  George  Coper  my  grandchild  twentie  nobles — at  their 
age  of  twenty  one  yeares.  I  will  my  Executor  doe  geue  and  make  my  wife  and  daughters  gownes 
of  good  blacke  serge  and  my  sonnes  and  sonnes  in  lawe  blacke  clokes  of  thirteene  shillinges  fower 
pence  the  yard,  and  my  cosen  Thomas  Gattes  a  like  cloke,  and  the  Minister  that  shall  preach  at 
my  buryal  fower  yardes  of  the  same  to  make  him  a  gowne.  Tenne  poundes  to  the  poore  people 
of  Hadley,  to  be  geven  out  in  lynnen  cloth  &  some  wollen  at  the  discretion  of  my  wife  and  my 
Executor  and  the  Churchwardens.  To  the  poore  of  Boxford  five  poundes  in  lynnen  and  wollen 
Cloth.  Rest  of  my  goodes  Ac.  to  John  Whiteing  my  sonne,  whome  I  make  my  sole  Executor. 
I  entreate  my  two  loveing  frendes  and  cosens  Mr.  Robert  Stansby,  parson  of  Westrop,  and  Mr. 
John  Browning,  parson  of  Semer,  to  be  Supervisor.  Witnesses  Richard  Tilson,  Thomas  Gattes. 

Probatum  decimo  quin  to  die  Novembris  1637  juramento  Johnis  Whiteing  filij  dicti  defuncti 
•et  executoris.  P.C.C.  50  Goare. 


Mill  of  feint  Harrison,  1639. 

John  Harrison  th’  elder  of  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  clerk,  14th  April,  1639.  To  John 
Harrison  my  eldest  son  lands  in  Weston  als  Wissington  co  Suff :  for  life:  failing  issue  of  his 
body  remainder  to  Isaac  Harrison  my  son.  To  Isaac  my  said  son  lands  in  Pentlow  co  Essex. 
To  Thomas  Harrison  my  son  lands  in  Sudbury.  To  Mary  my  daughter  at  her  age  of  twenty 
one  tenements  in  Waldingfield,  which  I  purchased  of  Mr.  Isaac  Winckall  my  father  in  law,  after 
the  decease  of  J udith  my  wife.  My  daughter  Judith  Whiting.  To  the  said  Judith  my  wife 
lease  lands  in  Sudbury  Ac.  Probat  12  Nov.  1640. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norwic.  Wills  1640-42,  fol.  70. 


Mill  of  folm  M lilting,  1643. 

John  Whiteing  late  of  Hadleigh  in  the  Countie  of  Suff  mercer.  Judith  my  wife  to  give 
a  full  release  of  ye  thirds  of  my  lands  to  the  vse  of  my  Children.  Vnto  said  Judith  my 
House  at  Hadleigh  wherein  I  dwell  and  all  my  lands  and  my  Mill  in  Langham  (1  Layham)  and 
Raydon,  the  tyme  shee  shall  continue  my  widdowe.  I  haue  discharged  my  wives  former  estate 
of  those  legacies  wch  it  was  ingaged  and  for  the  great  charges  the  house  haue  cost  me  in 
repacons.  And  yf  she  shall  happen  to  marry  againe  the  rents  of  my  said  lands  and  house  shalbe 
imployed  to  ye  educacon  of  my  two  sonnes  Thomas  and  John  Whiteing,  and  then  my  mynde 
is.  that  my  sonne  Thomas  Whiteing  should  be  brought  up  by  his  grandmother  Whiting,  and  my 
sonne  .lohn  Whiteing  by  his  grandmother  Harrison.  Vnto  Thomas  Whiteing  my  sonne  lands  in 
Nawten  (Newton)  A  Nedging,  now  in  possession  of  my  mother  Whiteing  for  life,  bequeathed  to 
my  selfe  by  my  fathers  will.  Vnto  the  said  Thomas  my  house  in  Hadleigh  my  copy  lands  in 
Newton  and  my  interest  in  y4  house  called  Samson’s  head,  or  els  a  hundred  pounds  wch  I 
lent  my  Brother  Payne  of  New  England  vpon  it — at  two  and  twenty  yeares  of  age.  Vnto  John 


WHITING  OF  HADLEIGH. 


123 


Whiteing  my  sonne  those  landes  woh  I  have  in  Langham  (1  Layham)  and  Raydon  called  Counill 
yf  she  (sic)  shall  live  vntill  shee  (sic)  shall  attayne  the  age  of  two  and  twenty  yeares.  To  my 
sonne  Thomas  Whiteing,  yf  he  attayne  the  age  of  fower  and  twenty  yeares,  the  summe  of  eight 
hundred  pounds,  and  fyve  hundred  poundes  vnto  my  sonne  John  Whiteing  These  moneys  shalbe 
gathered  together  by  my  supvisors  and  layed  out  in  land  for  the  vse  of  my  said  two  sonnes. 
Vnto  my  loveing  mother  Whiteing  twenty  poundes.  Vnto  my  mother  Harrison  ten  poundes  yf 
she  be  liveing.  Vnto  such  poore  people  of  Hadleigh  as  my  supra  visors  and  Mr  Richardson  and 
Richard  Tilson  of  Hadleigh  shall  nominate,  xls  yearly  out  of  my  house  there.  Remainder  of  my 
estate  to  supvisors  to  be  devided  among  my  two  sonnes  at  their  severall  ages  above  specified 
T  nominate  the  said  Judith  my  loveing  wife  sole  executrix,  and  desire  my  loving  brother  Henry 
Whiteing  and  my  cosen  Thomas  Gates  to  be  supvisors.  This  xvith  daye  of  January  1643.  I 
give  to  my  brother  Henry  Whiteing  for  his  paines  to  be  taken  five  pounds.  I’robatum  penultimo 
die  .Januarij  1644  Juramento  Judith*  Whiteing  retce  et  excis. 

P.C.C.  31  Rivers. 


5® ill  of  jEtkbolas  .Stanton,  1648. 

The  nynth  of  November  1648,  Nicholas  Stanton  of  Ipswich,  Clef.  To  executors  houses 
and  lands  lately  purchased  of  Henry  Stanton  of  Fritton  co.  Norfolk,  to  be  sold  for  payment  of 
my  debts  and  legacies.  To  my  kinsman  William  Sabbourne.  To  my  sister  Margaret  Stanton. 
George  Cooper  my  wifes  sonne.  To  the  poore  of  Margarets  parish  in  Ipswch  tenne  poundes, 
whereof  ffive  poundes  to  be  laid  out  in  Bibles.  To  the  poor  of  Stratton  Michills  in  Norfolk.  To 
the  Library  in  Ipswich  ffive  poundes  to  be  laid  out  in  bookes.  To  my  mother  in  law  Elizabeth 
Stanton  now  living  in  Hempnall  in  Norfolk.  To  my  mother  in  law  Whiteing.  My  cozen  Stanton’s 
sonne  of  Fritton.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Stebbing  of  Brandeston  and  Mr.  Thomas  Waterhouse.  To  Daniel 
Ray  sonne  of  Daniel  Ray  of  Ipswich.  My  aunt  Cooper  lyveing  in  Hingham  in  Norfolke.  To 
Joseph  Moyse  or  his  wife  liveing  in  New  England.  To  my  kinswoman  Judith  Smith  the  late 
wife  of  Henry  Smith  liveing  in  New  England  &  her  five  children  Judith  John  Elizabeth  Henry 
and  Daniel.  To  Mary  my  wife  twenty  pounds  to  be  laid  out  for  the  good  of  the  Plantation  of 
New  England.  To  my  brothers  Robert  Stanton  liveing  in  Norwich,  Samuel  Stanton  and  Henry 
Stanton  To  said  Henry  my  youngest  brother  my  lands  in  Stratton  Peters  and  Stratton  Michaells. 
To  my  sisters  Elizabeth,  Judith  and  Frances.  To  Nicholas  Stanton  eldest  sonne  of  my  brother 
Robert  Stanton  and  the  other  two  children  of  the  said  Robert.  To  each  of  the  children  of  my 
sister  Judith  by  Robert  Lock.  To  George  Cooper  my  wifes  sonne  all  my  printed  books  when  he 
shall  accomplish  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares :  meantime  I  comitt  them  unto  the  hands  of 
Mary  my  welbeloved  wife  and  to  her  care  to  be  reserved  for  him.  Notwithstanding  if  the  said 
George  Cooper  dye  before  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares,  or  that  he  shall  not  apply  himselfe 
to  the  caleing  of  the  ministry,  my  mynde  is  that  forthwith  my  books  shall  be  delivered  vnto 
my  brother  Henry  Stanton.  My  paper  books,  notebooks  and  manuscripts,  with  all  moneys  and 
debts,  and  my  howshold  stuffe  and  goods,  I  give  to  Mary  my  wife  and  her  heires  for  ever ; 
and  I  appoint  her  and  Mr.  Christopher  Vyn  of  Stratton  Michells  to  be  executors.  Probatum 
decimo  quarto  Februarii  1649  Juramento  Mari*  Stanton  Relict  diet  defunct. 

P.C.C.  31  Pembroke. 


124 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES, 


Will  of  Jo  bit  S'parljaiuk^  1655. 

John  Sparhauke  the  elder  of  great  Coggeshall,  co.  Essex,  clothier,  the  nyne  and  twentith 
March  1653.  To  the  honest  poore  people  of  great  Coggeshall  ffive  pounds.  Ynto  Hester  my 
loving  wife  one  annuity  of  ffive  and  forty  pounds  out  of  my  messuages  and  lands  in  Braintree, 
Booking,  Stisted,  and  Coggeshall.  Unto  my  sonne  John  Sparhauke  the  messuages  aforesaid  charged 
with  said  annuity.  Ynto  Samuell  Sparhauke  my  sonne  messuage  or  Inn  called  the  George  in 
Witham  and  messuages  with  orchard  Ac.  near  West  Streete  in  Coggeshall,  and  ffive  hundred 
pounds  to  be  paid  to  my  brother  Christopher  Sheriffe  who  I  desire  to  be  his  gardian.  Unto  my 
daughter  Hester  five  hundred  pounds  which  shall  be  paid  to  my  cozen  Whitinge  of  Ipswich  for 
her  vse  at  her  age  of  twenty  yeares.  I  desire  that  my  Cozen  Whitinge  would  take  care  for 
her  educacon  and  be  her  gardian.  I  will  that  the  fower  hundred  pounds  in  the  hands  of  my 
Cozen  Stuckey  of  London  and  one  hundred  pounds  in  the  hands  of  my  brother  Mr.  Robert 
Crane  shall  be  for  her  porcon.  To  my  daughters  Sara,  Susan  and  Elizabeth  five  hundred  pounds 
a  peece  at  their  severall  ages  of  twenty  yeares.  Ynto  the  children  of  my  brother  Sparhauke  in 
New  England  the  debt  wch  their  father  did  assigne  to  me  to  receaue  of  their  vnckle  Samuell 
Auger.  My  Cozen  I’echy  and  her  children.  Vnto  my  Loving  freind  Mr  Owyn  Deane  of  Christ 
Church  in  Oxford  and  his  heires,  lands  in  Baddow.  My  Cozen  Westly  late  of  Stanaway,  clarke. 
Children  of  my  brother  Edward  Sparhawke.  Cozen  Samuell  Crane.  Samuell  Sherman  my  kinsman, 
the  sonne  of  John  Sherman.  My  sonne  John  and  my  brother  Shereffe  to  be  executors. 
Testator  desireth  that  John  Baffyn  A  Michell  llichold  would  take  upon  them  to  be  overseers  of 
this  will  for  the  good  and  benefite  of  my  Children.  This  will  was  proved  the  last  day  of 
Septembr  1653  by  the  oathes  of  John  Sparhawke  and  Christopher  Sheriffe. 

B.C.C.  30  Brent. 

Esther  Sparhawk  the  daughter  was  wife  of  Nathaniel  Burrell  when  her  mother  made  her 
will  (P.C.C.  97  Hene)  in  1668. 


ffittU  of  Hobart  ttratte,  1658. 

I  Robert  Crane  of  great  Coggeshall  in  the  County  of  Essex,  grocer,  consideringe  the  certainty 
of  death  but  the  incertainty  of  the  tyme,  doe  therefore  in  preparation  therevnto  make  this  my 
last  will.  I  giue  vnto  my  deare  and  lovinge  Wife,  in  liewe  of  her  Joyncture,  in  pursuance  of  the 
obligacon  entered  into  by  me  before  marriage  vnto  my  brother  in  lawe  Mr.  Nathaniel  Bacon, 
my  coppiehold  landes  and  houses  in  West  M’sey  co.  Essex  for  life,  and  the  revercon  thereupon 
vnto  my  sonne  Samuell  Crane  during  his  life,  and  after  his  decease  to  the  heires  of  his  body, 
and  for  default  of  such  issue  to  my  sonne  Thomas  Crane.  Ynto  my  sonnes  Samuell  and  Thomas 
Crane  one  messuage  in  Stocke  Streete,  with  landes  meadowes  and  pastures  in  the  occupation  of 
my  selfe  and  William  Cottyes  in  great  Coggeshall,  and  two  messuages  in  Church  Street  with 
orchard  and  garden,  and  one  other  in  West  Street,  and  one  cottage  with  orchards  and  gardens 
in  the  back  lane ;  they  to  pay  my  sonne  Robert  Crane  duringe  his  life  all  the  profitts  that 
can  be  made  out  of  the  same,  and  after  his  decease  vnto  such  issue  as  he  shall  leave  behinde 
him.  To  my  said  sonnes  Samuell  and  Thomas  Crane  one  messuage  called  the  Chappell  neere 
Coggeshall  markett  house,  and  one  messuage  in  Stonham  Streete ;  they  to  pay  vnto  the  said 


WHITING  OF  HADLEIGH. 


125 


Robert  my  sonne  all  the  rents  and  profitts.  Ynto  my  said  sonne  Robert  in  further  augmentation 
to  his  maintenance  fifteene  poundes  more  yearlie.  William  Turner  of  White  Chappell,  and  William 
Turner  his  sonne  of  Marks  Tey  in  Essex,  to  assure  Copyholds  in  West  M’sey  to  the  use  of 
my  sonne  Thomas  and  his  heires  for  ever.  I  give  more  vnto  my  sonne  Thomas  my  ffree  messuage 
neere  the  Markett  house  in  great  Coggeshall  in  the  tenure  of  John  Starlinge.  Ynto  my  sonne 
Samuel  Crane  my  messuage  with  lands  woods  ifcc.  in  Pentlowe  and  Belchampe  St.  Paule.  To  the 
poore  of  great  Coggeshall  twentie  poundes.  Ynto  my  daughter  Rogers  the  wife  of  Nathaniell 
Rogers  nowe  of  Newe  England,  clarke,  ffower  hundred  poundes  in  liewe  of  the  porcn  I  promised 
in  marriage.  My  grandchildren  Samuell,  Nathaniell,  Ezechiell,  Timothy  &;  John  Rogers,  to  every 
of  them  ffiftye  poundes,  in  part  of  payment  of  wch  I  will  they  shall  accept  of  a  bond  made 

vnto  me  of  ffower  hundred  pounds  from  Mr.  Josua  Foote  of  Newe  England.  Vnto  my  daughter 
Mary  Wliiteing  wife  of  Henry  Whiteing  of  Ipswich  twoe  hundred  poundes  as  the  remaynder  of 
her  porcn.  Vnto  Henry  Whiteing  and  Mary  Whiteing  my  grandchildren  One  hundred  poundes 
a  piece  at  their  severall  ages  of  one  and  twentie  yeare.  Vnto  my  daughter  Elizabeth  the  wife 
of  William  Chaplyn  twoe  hundred  poundes.  To  Robert  and  Mary  the  children  of  my  sonne 
Thomas  Crane  one  hundred  pounds  a  peece.  Vnto  Diana,  Elzabeth,  Margarett,  Frances  and 
Bridgett,  daughters  of  my  brother  Thomas  Crane,  deceased.  Francis  Stafford  widowe  my  kinswoman. 
Vnto  my  three  kinswomen  daughters  of  my  sister  Johan  Foulsham.  Anne  the  wife  of  William 
Higham  my  kinswoman.  To  Susan  wife  of  John  Voyse  of  great  Coggeshall.  To  Robert  Crane 

sonne  of  my  cozen  Robert  Crane  of  Braintree,  when  twentie  one.  Vnto  my  sonne  Samuell 

Crane  my  coppie  lands  and  tenements  in  Lowford  and  Rowses  Marsh  in  much  Wigborowe  in 

Essex  ;  he  to  sell  them  towardes  the  payment  of  my  debts  and  legacies.  Residue  of  my  personall 
estate  to  my  sonnes  Samuell  and  Thomas  Crane  whome  I  make  Executors. 

Proved  the  18th  day  of  March  1658  by  the  oath  of  Samuell  Crane  the  survivinge  executor. 

P.C.C.  179  Pell. 

Nathaniel  Bacon  Esq ,  younger  son  of  Edward  Bacon  of  Shrubland  Hall  in  Suffolk,  and 
grandson  of  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  Keeper  of  the  Great  Seal  of  England,  was  Recorder  of  Ipswich 
and  of  Bury,  M.P.  for  the  University  of  Cambridge,  1640,  and  for  Ipswich,  1654.  He  first 
married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Robert  Maidstone  of  Boxsted,  Essex,  gent.  Her  sister,  Margaret 
Maidstone,  became  the  wife  of  Robert  Crane  of  Coggeshall,  the  testator.  His  second  wife  was 
Susan  Holloway,  widow  of  Matthew  Alefounder  of  Dedham  and  stepdaughter  to  John  Goodwin 
of  East  Bergholt,  a  liberal  supporter  of  the  “  plantation  ”  or  colony  of  New  England  (vol.  i,  226). 
He  died  in  1660.  Candler's  Pedigrees,  llarl.  MS.  6071  and  Maidstone  Pedigree  in  the  Visitation  of 
Essex  163 If. 


Mill  ot  InDiti)  lUdjariismt,  1659. 

The  tenth  day  of  June  1 60 9  I  Judeth  Richardson  now  wife  unto  William  Richardson  of 
lladleigh  in  the  county  of  Sufi.  gent,  having  some  small  portion  of  goods  at  myne  owne  dispose, 
doe  make  my  will.  Vnto  mine  eldest  sonne  John  Harrison  of  Waltham  in  Essex  ffifty  pounds. 
Vnto  his  sonne  John  tenn  pounds.  Vnto  his  daughter  Dorratie  twenty  pounds.  To  the  rest 
of  his  children  pillowbeers,  table  linen  Ac.  Vnto  my  sonne  Isack  Harrison  of  Hadleigh 
fforty  pounds  in  full  recompense  foi  his  giving  vpp  of  his  right  in  a  peece  of  land  in  little 


126 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Waldingfield  called  bloud  meadow.  Vnto  ffrancis  Harrison  his  wife  a  peeee  of  wrought  satten 
of  an  orring  culler.  Vnto  his  sonne  Tsack.  Vnto  his  daughter  Martha  my  diamond  Ring. 
Vnto  his  daughter  ffrances.  Vnto  my  two  other  sonnes  John  and  Robert.  Vnto  my  sonne 
Thomas  Harrison  of  Cooleadge  twenty  pounds.  Vnto  my  daughter  Judith  Lawrence  twenty 
pounds.  Vnto  hir  sone  Robert  Howe,  hir  two  sonnes  Thomas  Whiting  and  John  Whiting,  and 
her  daughter  Mary  Lawrence.  Vnto  my  sonne  in  law  John  Goldsmith  of  London  my  silver 
Tankerd.  My  daughter  John  Harrison’s  wife  and  ye  wife  of  my  sonne  in  law  John  Richardson. 
Vnto  my  loveing  Husband  six  pounds  to  buy  him  mourning  apparel!  My  sonne  John  Richardson’s 
daughters  Susan  and  Hannah.  My  sonne  in  law  Charles  Richardson’s  wiffe  The  wife  of  my 
sonne  in  law  Edward  Browne  of  Lavenham.  My  other  three  daughters  in  law.  My  sonne  in  law 
John  Harrison  of  Waltham  to  be  sole  executor. 

In  a  Codicil  dated  21  Septr  1661,  testatrix  states  that  her  husband,  William  Richardson 
is  now  deceased,  and  makes  some  alterations  and  additions  to  her  will,  leaving  five  pounds  each 
to  the  other  four  children  of  her  son  Isaac  Harrison,  namely  Francis,  John,  Robert  and  Mary 
Harrison.  Probation  primo  die  Septembris,  1663,  Juramento  Johannis  Harrison  executoris. 

P.C.C.  115  Juxon. 


Mill  of  Hobnl  Cram\  1666. 

I  Robert  Crane  of  Hadleigh  in  the  County  of  Sufi’,  gent,  make  and  ordaine  this  my  last 
will  and  Testament.  L  give  to  my  sister  Mary  Crane,  whom  I  make  my  sole  Executor,  all  my 
lands  and  tenements  in  Kelvedon  in  the  County  of  Essex,  and  the  revercons  in  all  those  lands 
which  now  are  the  Joynture  of  my  mother  in  lawe,  the  wife  of  MT  Robert  Andrewes.  But  in 
case  (she)  dye  without  issue  of  her  body,  Then  I  will  that  the  aforesaid  premisses  be  sold  by 
Thomas  Goulding  and  equally  divided  betwixt  the  children  of  my  vncle  Whiting  and  Anne 
Rogers  in  New  England,  and  the  children  of  my  cosen  Thomas  Goulding.  Vnto  the  aforesaid 
Thomas  Goulding  and  his  heires  my  house  in  Bi’antrary  ( Braintree).  I  give  my  two  messuages 
in  Coggeshall  vnto  Will  :  Fowlser  and  his  heires  for  ever.  Vnto  Will :  Hawkins  my  two  messuages 
in  Fering  Hill.  To  Mr  Whiting  of  Sermer  for  preaching  my  funerall  sermon  ffiue  pounds,  and 
to  the  poore'  of  Kelvedon  ffiue  pounds  alsoe.  This  ffowerteenth  day  of  May  1666.  Probatum 
fuit  vicesimo  secundo  die  Maij  1669  Juramento  Marie  Stisted  als  Crane  vx  Laurentij  Stisted 
sororis  dicte  defuncte  et  executricis  in  hujusmodi  Testamento  nominat. 

P.C.C.  51  Coke. 


Mill  of  j^amurl  (Crane,  1669. 

Memorandujn  :  I  Samuell  Crane  of  Great  Coggeshall  in  Essex,  gent,  doe  make  this  my 
last  will.  T  giue  to  my  loveing  sister  Mrs  Margarett  Rogers  now  of  Ipswich  in  New  England 
my  messuages  lands  and  tenements  in  Saltcote,  Much  Wigborowe,  Tolson  Knights,  and  Great  and 
Little  Tottham  co.  Essex,  and  my  messuages  in  Great  Coggeshall,  for  the  terme  of  his  life,  and 
after  her  decease  to  her  children  equally  in  full  discharge  of  a  mortgage  of  flower  hundred 


WHITING  OF  HADLEIGH. 


127 


pounds  vpon  some  part  of  said  premisses.  Vnto  my  loving  sister  Mns  Mary  Whiting  wife  of 
Mr  Henry  Whiting  of  Ipswich  my  lands  in  West  Mersey  co.  Essex  and  my  capitall  messuage 
auntiently  called  Constantines,  and  (other)  messuages  in  Coggeshall  neere  the  Markett  house  there, 
(one)  of  them  in  the  occupation  of  Mr  Isaac  Hubberd,  and  after  her  decease  to  her  children. 
Also  messuages  there  out  of  which  I  haue  granted  to  my  sister  in  law  the  wife  of  ... 
Daynes,  the  late  wife  of  my  brother  Robert  Crane,  one  annuity  of  twenty  pounds  (for)  life — 
the  said  grant  being  all  her  liuelihood.  To  my  sister  Elizabeth,  the  late  wife  of  Mr  William 
Chaplin  late  of  Bury  S*  Edmunds,  my  copy  lands  in  Stockstreete  in  Coggeshall  and  after  her 
decease  to  her  children.  Ynto  my  loueing  brother  Mr  William  Olopton  my  messuage  in  Stone- 
hamstreete  in  Great  Coggeshall  and  my  messuage  in  Church  Lane  for  life  (and  then)  to  his 
children.  Ynto  my  cozen  Mr  Lawrence  Stisted  of  Ipswich  and  my  loveing  niece  Mary  his  now 
wife  my  lands  in  Belcham  S*  Paul  and  Pentlow  co.  Essex  for  life,  (then)  to  the  child  or 
children  to  bee  borne  of  the  body  of  the  said  Mary ;  they  to  release  my  Executors  of  the 
one  hundred  pounds  given  to  the  said  Mary  by  the  will  of  her  grandfather  Mr  Robert  Crane. 
Ynto  my  uncle  Mr  Edward  Sparhawke,  messuage  called  Spooners  in  Great  Coggeshall  for  life  (then) 
to  his  sonne  Samuell  Sparrehawke  and  his  daughter  Sarah  Sparhawke.  To  my  kinswoman  Mrs 

Bridgett  Andrews  wife  of  Mr  William  Andrews,  cittizen  and  cheesemonger  of  London,  messuage 
in  Church  streete  in  Coggeshall  for  life  (then)  to  her  sonne  Thomas  Gresley.  Ynto  my  loving 
ffather  in  law  Mr  Robert  Feltham  of  Sculthorpe  in  Norfolk.  My  uncle  Mr  John  Crane  living 
about  Horram  in  Suffolke  and  his  son  John  Crane.  To  my  ffather  Mr  Robert  Crane :  my  cozen 
Cooper,  widdow,  and  her  children :  my  cozen  Burgis,  widdow  :  the  children  of  my  cozen  Robert 
Foulsum,  deceased,  living  in  Suffolk.  Vnto  my  cozen  John  Yoyce  of  Outling  in  Essex  one  obligacon 
entred  into  by  Richard  Voyce  his  ffather  to  mee.  Vnto  my  cozen  Susan  Voyce,  widdowe,  and 
her  daughter  Elizabeth.  My  cozen  Frances  Stafford,  widdow,  and  her  sonne  Nathaniell  Stafford. 
The  ffower  children  of  my  cozen  William  Foulsum  of  Stisted.  My  cozen  Ambrose  Foulsum  and 
his  children.  My  cozen  Robert  Crane  of  Braintree  and  his  sonne  Robert  Crane.  My  cozen 

Samuell  Sparhawke.  Cozen  John  Foulsum  living  about  Tottham  and  his  sonne  John.  My  cozens 
Bridgett  wife  of  John  Vice  of  Raine  in  Essex,  Mary  Smith,  and  the  widdow  of  my  cozen  John 
Sherman.  One  hundred  pounds  to  bee  destributed  by  my  Executors  amongst  Twenty  poore 
Ministers.  I  give  ffifty  pounds  to  my  loving  brother  Mr  Heniy  Whiting  and  my  cozen  Mr 
Lawrence  Stisted,  both  of  Ipswich  in  Suffolke  to  be  distributed  amongst  Tenn  poore  Ministers. 
To  my  said  brother  Clopton  my  messuage  called  the  Greene  Draggon  in  Great  Coggeshall.  Vnto 
Christian  Whiting  one  of  the  daughters  of  my  brother  Whiting  one  hundred  pounds  more  than 
what  before  I  have  giuen  in  this  will.  To  Mary  and  .  .  .  the  two  daughters  of  my  loving 

•cozen  Mr  John  Blomfeild.  I  release  my  cozen  Mr  John  Rogers  and  my  cozen  Mr  William 

Hubbard,  both  of  Ipswich  in  New  England,  of  all  sumes  of  money  they  owe  unto  mee.  My 
messuage  called  Baldwins  in  Patteswicke  in  Essex  and  my  part  of  a  wood  called  Munckwood 
in  Coggeshall  to  be  sould.  I  giue  the  rents  of  my  messuage  in  Stoneham  streete  in  Coggeshall 
to  the  vse  of  the  poore  of  Great  Coggeshall  for  ever,  to  be  laid  out  in  Bread  every  25th  of 
December,  and  soe  to  continue  for  ever  I  appoint  my  very  loveing  friends  Mr  William  Cox 

the  elder  and  Mr  Isaac  Hubberd  of  Coggeshall  Executors  (I  give  them  ffifty  pounds  a  peece  for 
their  paines)  and  Joseph  Driewood  gent,  and  John  Wilbore  clothier  both  of  Coggeshall  Supvisors. 
I  give  them  twenty  pounds  a  piece  for  their  paines.  This  ....  day  of  November  1669. 
Probatum  decimo  die  Augusti  1670  Juramentis  Witimi  Cox,  Senor  et  Isaaci  Hubberd. 


P.C.C.  97  Penn. 


128 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Haititalj  iftftocomett,  1 672. 

Hannah  Newcomen  of  Ipswich,  Relict  of  Mathew  Newcomen  late  of  Leyden  in  Holland, 

Clerk.  My  daughter  Mary  now  wife  of  John  Whiting  of  Groton,  Clerk.  Unto  Ambrose  Newcomen 

the  sonn  of  my  brother  Thomas  Newcomen.  Vnto  my  three  grandchildren  Christopher  Wase 
Elizabeth  Wase  and  Hannah  Wase.  Vnto  my  ffower  daughters,  Elizabeth  Newcomen,  Hannah 
Newcomen,  Martha  Newcomen  and  Alice  Newcomen,  for  the  augmenting  of  theire  Portions 

bequeathed  to  them  by  theire  father,  One  hundred  pounds  a  peece.  Land  called  Broome  Leys 
and  Messuage  in  Hedingham  Sibble  co.  Essex,  not  long  since  taken  up  in  my  sister  Scotts  name, 
to  my  sonn  Stephen  Newcomen  and  his  heires  for  ever.  Vnto  my  said  sonn  Stephen  one  great 
silver  cup  with  the  cover,  one  silver  medicinall  spoone,  my  best  feather  bed  with  the  red 

furniture,  the  red  Twilt  and  red  chaires.  My  sister  Scott  to  share  the  rest  of  my  goods  with 
my  ffower  daughters.  My  sonn  Stephen  Newcomen  to  be  sole  Executor.  'l'his  Eighteenth  of 
Aprill  1672.  Signed  sealed  and  delivered  in  the  presence  of  vs  Thomas  Pones,  William  Wye. 

Probation  decimo  die  Nouembris  1675  Juramento  Stephani  Newcomen  filij  et  Executores. 

P.C.C.  114  Dicer. 


SStill  of  3 oI)it  ®H biting,  Clerk,  1 6S0. 

John  Whiting  of  Groton  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  Clerk,  being  sick  in  body  doe  make 
this  my  last  will.  I  give  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  God  my  creator  trusting  in  him  for  mercy 
and  Salvation  through  the  meritts  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  my  body  to  be  decently  but  privately 

buried  in  Groton  Chancell.  Vnto  my  loving  wife  Mary  Whiting  my  lands  in  Layham  and 
Reydon  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  which  are  part  of  her  Dowry,  for  her  life ;  and  after  her 
decease  to  my  brother  Thomas  Whiting  of  Hadleigh  and  his  heires.  Vnto  my  wife  my 
messuage  and  lands  in  Combs  in  Suffolk,  alsoe  part  of  her  Dowry  for  her  life ;  And  after  her 
decease  to  my  brother  Thomas  Whiting  and  his  heires.  Vnto  my  brother  Thomas  Whiting  my 
coppy  hold  lands  in  Combs  he  to  pay  Tenn  pounds  yearly  to  my  wife,  soe  long  as  she  shall 
continue  my  widdow.  Vnto  my  brother  Thomas  Whiting  my  messuage  lands  and  woods  in 
Ardley  and  Much  Bromley  in  Essex:  he  to  pay  vnto  my  kinswoman  yearly  Hannah  Wase  ffifteene 
pounds,  soe  long  as  she  shall  continue  vnmarried.  And  if  she  happen  to  marry  with  the  consent 
of  my  wife  or  of  my  brother  Robert  Howe  of  Waldingfield  Magna,  Gentleman,  or  of  Steven 
Newcomen  of  Marlsford,  Clerke,  then  my  will  is  that  my  said  brother  Thomas  Whiting  shall 

pay  (her)  Two  Hundred  pounds  vpon  the  day  of  her  marriage.  My  loving  brother  Robert  How  of 
Waldingfield  Magna :  my  loveing  sister  Mary  Newcomen  of  Marlsford  :  my  sisters  Martha  Denton 

of  Ipswich,  Hannah  Newcomen  and  Alice  Newcomen :  my  kinswoman  Elizabeth  Wase.  Vnto- 

Martha  Whiting,  daughter  of  my  brother  Thomas  Whiting,  to  buy  her  a  piece  of  Plate.  To  the 
poore  of  Groton  ffive  pounds.  And  all  the  Rest  of  my  estate  I  give  to  my  deare  and  loueing 
wife,  whom  I  doe  make  sole  Executrix.  The  eleaventh  day  of  March  1680.  Signed  Jic.  in  the 
presence  of  Robert  Frend,  Sam11  Frend,  Fra:  Quarles.  Probatum  tertio  die  Decembris  1681 
Juramento  Marise  Whiting  Relcie  dci  deftli.  B.C.C.  189  North. 


WHITING  OF  HADLEIGH. 


129 


fflill  of  ®Ijontas  SSIjtttng,  1682. 

Thomas  Whiting  of  Hadleigh  in  the  County  of  Suff.  Mercer.  I  give  my  sinfull  and 
unworthy  soule  into  the  hands  of  Allraighty  God  trusting  in  him  for  mercy  and  Salvation  through 
the  merits  of  Jesus  Christ  my  Saviour.  My  body  to  be  decently  but  privately  buryed  in  the 
North  He  of  Hadleigh  Church  by  my  ffather  Whiting  and  Grandfather.  Unto  Mary  my  beloved 
Wife  over  and  above  her  joynture  all  my  household  stuffe  and  Plate.  Goods  in  warehouses  to 
be  sold  for  payments  of  debts ;  and  should  they  fall  short  Executrix  and  Executors  to  sell  house 
and  land  in  Stonne  street,  meadows  in  Hadleigh  and  Layham  Atc.  To  my  wife  that  fforty 
shillings  yearly  due  to  me  from  my  sister  Whiting  for  the  copyhold  land  at  Combes  given  vnto 
me  by  my  Bro :  Mr  John  Whiting  with  House  and  lands,  with  the  woods  belonging,  in  the 
occupation  of  John  Clarke  and  myselfe,  to  be  sold  provided  Executors  pay  vnto  Mrs  Hannah  Wase 
of  Ipswich  spinster  ffifteen  pounds  yearly  soe  long  as  shee  live  unmarryed.  And  if  shee  happen  to 
marry  with  the  consent  of  Mrs  Mary  Whiting  her  aunt  or  of  Mr  Robert  How  of  Waldingfeild 
Magna  or  Mr  Stephen  Newcomen  of  Marlesford,  then  that  they  pay  unto  (her)  two  hundred 
pounds.  Houses  and  land  in  Combes  and  kittle  Finborough  unto  my  sonne  Joseph  Whiting,  he 
to  pay  my  loving  Brother  Mr  Robert  How  interest  for  two  hundred  and  ffifty  pounds  at  the 
rate  of  fiive  pounds  tenne  shillings  per  cent.  Unto  my  sonne  Joseph  meadow  ground  and  land 
in  Layham  and  Reydon  after  the  decease  of  my  sister  Mrs  Mary  Whiting.  Unto  my  two 
daughters  Judith  and  Martha  Whiting  and  their  heires  my  houses  and  lands  in  Haughton 
[Norton]  and  Nedgin  in  co.  Suff.  holden  of  the  Manor  of  Nedginshall,  Cosfordshall  and  Talmage 
hall.  My  Lease  Land  in  Sudbury  to  my  two  daughters  towards  their  two  porcons,  which  I 
desire  Executors  would  make  up  five  hundred  pounds  apeice.  Unto  my  deare  and  honoured 
Mother  Mra  Judith  Lawrence  of  Marlesford.  Unto  my  honoured  Mother  Mrs  Judith  Beaumond. 
Unto  my  sisters  Mrs  Mary  Newcomen  of  Marlesford  and  Mrs  Mary  Whiting  of  Ipswich.  My  wife 
Mrs  Mary  Whiting,  my  brother  Mr  Robert  How  of  Waldingfield  Magna  and  Mr  John  Beaumont 
Senr  of  Bildeston  to  be  my  Executors.  This  16th  day  of  November  1682.  Probatum  duodecimo 
die  Julij  1684  Juramentis  Marias  Whiting  Relcse  et  Roberti  How  duorum  Exrum;  Reservata  ptate  <fcc. 

P.C.C.  97  Hare. 


Mill  of  Untrg  SRIjttmj,  1685. 

I  Henry  Whiting  of  Ipswich  gent,  do  make  this  Will  comitting  my  Soule  to  the  mercies 
of  Allmighty  God  and  hopeing  for  salvacon  through  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ.  I  give 

to  my  daughter  Mrs  Mary  Blomfeild  three  hundred  pounds  to  be  secured  for  her  sole  and  separate 

use.  To  my  grandson  Henry  Blomfeild  one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  sonne  Peyton  Ventris  Esqr 
and  to  my  daughter  Margarett  his  wife  my  Mannors  of  Waylands  and  of  Ipswich  Alwards  als 
Sl  Peters,  the  messuage  he  now  occupies  and  all  other  Mannors  messuages  and  lands,  formerly 
the  estate  of  Edward  Mann,  Esqr,  that  I  lately  purchased.  To  the  said  Peyton  Ventris  my 
Messuage  and  lands  in  Wenbam  parva,  he  paying  three  hundred  pounds  towards  the  payment 

of  my  Legacies.  I  bequeath  one  thousand  pounds  to  be  laid  out  in  the  purchase  of  lands  to 

be  conveyed  to  the  use  of  my  sonne  Henry  Parsons  and  my  daughter  Christian  his  wife  for 

S 


130 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


their  lives,  and  after  to  the  use  of  the  daughter  of  the  said  Henry  by  the  said  Christian  and 
to  the  heyres  of  the  body  of  that  daughter :  but  in  case  the  said  Christian  dyes  in  the  life 
of  this  said  Henry,  without  issue,  then  to  the  use  of  my  three  daughters  Mary  Margaret  and 

Judith.  To  my  daughter  Judith  one  thousand  pounds  and  my  messuages  &c.  in  Bramford.  To 

my  sister  in  law  Mra  Lawrence  tenn  pounds.  To  the  wife  of  Francis  Thompson,  merchant,  tenne 
pounds.  To  George  Cooper,  clerke,  and  my  couzin  Robert  Paine  and  to  the  sonne  of  my  nephew 
Thomas  Whiting  deceased,  to  buy  each  of  my  aforesaid  Couzins  pieces  of  plate  in  remembrance 
of  me.  To  the  poore  of  the  parish  of  Sfc  Laurence  five  pounds.  I  give  also  twenty  pounds 

to  be  given  to  tenn  such  poore  persons  as  shall  be  thought  by  my  couzin  Lawrence  Stisted,  Mr 

Raymer,  Minister  of  St.  Laurence,  and  my  Executor  the  most  proper  objects  of  Charity.  To  John 
the  boy  I  have  hitherto  maintained  two  hundred  pounds  for  his  maintenance,  binding  out 
Apprentice  &c.  My  house  wherein  I  dwell  at  Ipswich  and  my  shipping  <kc.  and  all  the  rest 
of  my  estates  to  be  disposed  of  and  all  the  money  arising  thereby  to  be  equally  divided  amongst 
my  three  daughters  Mary  Margarett  and  Judith.  Each  of  the  said  shares  to  be  laid  out  in 
the  purchase  of  lands  that  may  come  to  the  issue  of  my  said  three  daughters.  I  require  my 
daughters  and  their  Husbands  and  their  Heires  to  release  all  their  right  in  the  houses  in 
Coggeshall  in  the  County  of  Essex  to  such  persons  as  shall  be  interested  in  the  same  under  a 
sale  formerly  made  of  them.  I  make  my  sonne  Peyton  Yentris  Executor.  This  two  and  twentieth 
day  of  March  1685. 

Codicil.  Executor  to  deduct  out  of  moneys  &  bequests  to  my  daughter  Blomfield  as  he 
hath  expended  touching  her  husband  Mr  John  Blomfield  about  his  Confinement  and  the  Charges 
relateing  there  unto.  Immediately  after  her  decease  her  share  of  my  estate  to  goe  to  the  children. 
The  thirteenth  March  1686.  Probatum  undecimo  die  Maij  1687  Juramento  Peyton  Yentris. 

P.C.C.  70  Foot. 


(Will  uf  teuton  Unttrts,  1691 

I  Peyton  Ventris  Knt,  one  of  the  Justices  of  theire  Majesty’s  Court  of  Comon  Pleas,  doe 
make  this  Will  on  the  twenty  eighth  of  March  1691,  comitting  my  soule  to  the  mercy  of 
God,  hopeing  for  Salvation  through  the  mediacon  of  our  Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ.  I 
charge  all  my  Reall  and  personall  (estate)  with  the  payment  of  my  debts  and  full  performance 
of  the  Legacyes  and  Trusts  I  stand  oblieged  unto  by  the  last  Will  of  my  late  ffather  Mr  Henry 
Whiting.  To  my  deare  Wife  soe  long  as  she  contynueth  my  Widow  all  my  Mannors  Messuages 
Lands  and  Tenements,  in  entire  Confidence  that  she  will  educate  my  Children  and  provide  for 
them  in  fitting  manner.  And  my  desire  is  that  if  she  marryes  againe  she  would  accept  of  one 
Hundred  pounds  a  year  out  of  the  Estate.  After  her  decease  I  give  to  my  sonne  Peyton  and 
his  heyres  my  Mannor  of  Grandhams  in  Great  Shelford  and  my  Messuage  in  Shelford;  and  my 
Mannors  Messuage  in  Ipswich  are  to  goe  to  my  sonne  Peyton  as  my  late  ffather  Whiting’s  Will 
hath  entailed  them.  I  likewise  give  (him)  my  messuage  in  Qui  in  Cambridgeshire  and  my  Lease 
of  the  Rectory  of  Stow  Qui  which  I  tooke  of  the  Bishop  of  Ely.  To  my  sonne  Robert  and 
his  heyres  my  Messuages  and  Lands  that  I  purchased  of  Gostling  in  Newburn  in  Suff.  My 


WHITING  OF  HAD  LEIGH. 


131 


Estate  and  Interest  in  the  Messuage  in  Merzy  in  Essex  and  my  parte  in  the  houses  in 
Coggeshall  and  all  my  lands  in  Essex  I  give  to  my  sonne  Edward.  My  messuage  and  lands  in 

Little  Wenham  in  Suff.  to  my  sonne  John  and  his  heires.  I  give  my  lands  and  tenements  in 

Bilderston  in  Suff.  which  are  to  come  to  me  and  my  wife  after  the  death  of  Mr  Sam :  Layton 

to  my  sonne  William  and  his  heires.  I  do  not  meane  that  these  bequests  to  my  Children 

should  take  effect  till  my  Wife’s  decease.  I  give  to  my  Honoured  and  deare  Mother  my  largest 
peice  of  broad  gold  woh  she  formerly  gave  me.  I  desire  my  Wife  to  pay  my  Mother  fforty  two 
pounds  cleare  quarterly  during  her  life,  my  mother  permitting  my  wife  to  receive  to  her  own 
use  the  rent  of  Mr  Barlee.  I  charge  the  Lease  of  the  Rectory  of  Stow  Qui  with  the  payment 
of  two  Hundred  pounds  to  Mary  my  daughter  after  my  wifes  decease,  if  she  then  be  married 
or  sixteen  yeares  of  age.  I  charge  the  ffreehold  parts  of  the  estate  in  Newburn  with  the  pay¬ 
ment  of  one  Hundred  pounds  to  my  said  daughter  Mary.  I  give  to  Mr  Raymond  three  pieces 
of  Twenty  shifts  broad  gold.  I  make  my  deare  Wife  sole  Executrix  and  bequeath  unto  her  all 
personall  Estate.  My  wife  to  be  very  moderate  in  the  Expence  of  my  ffunerall.  I  give  Peyton 
all  my  Bookes  except  such  English  bookes  as  my  Wife  choose  for  her  selfe.  Probatum  vicesimo 
septimo  die  Aprilis  1691  Juramto  Dominse  Margaretse  Ventris  Viduse  Relcse  dci  defuncti. 

P.C.C.  73  Vere. 

Sir  Peyton  Ventris  was  a  lineal  descendant  of  ancient  family  of  Ventris  of  Cambridgeshire, 
whose  pedigree  was  entered  in  the  Visitation  of  that  County  in  1619. 


SEiU  of  Hobart  Ifofoe,  1701. 

The  ffirst  day  of  January  1701  I  Robert  How  of  Witnesham  in  the  county  of  Suffolke 
gent,  declare  this  to  be  my  last  Will  and  Testament.  As  for  that  part  of  my  worldly  estate 
which  the  Lord  hath  lent  me  I  dispose  of  it  as  ffolloweth  I  give  unto  Robert  Newcomen  my 
kinsman  that  house  and  grounds  in  Great  Waldingfield  called  Jourdans.  To  Mary  Newcomen  my 
beloved  kinswoman  my  Colledge  Lease,  that  I  bought  of  James  Woolverton  late  of  Ipswich,  in 
Layerbreton  co.  Essex,  and  that  house  and  ground  in  Edwardston  in  the  occupacon  of  Thomas 
Moodey,  and  the  remainder  of  the  time  of  ffifty  years  that  I  have  in  a  ffarme  at  Pollstead  or 
Stoak  nigh  Naland  with  all  the  timber  and  wood  thereon  growing.  To  the  said  Mary  Newcomen 
that  land  given  to  me  by  my  sister  in  law  Mrs  Mary  Hammond  in  Wethersfeild  and  Shawford 
co.  Essex,  if  it  shall  any  wayes  fall  unto  me.  I  give  (her)  likewise  all  the  moneys  due  to  me 
from  Bonds  or  Mortgage  provided  she  pay  unto  her  brothers  and  sisters  five  pounds  a  peice. 
Unto  my  brother  and  sister  Newcomen  to  buy  them  mourning.  To  the  Minister  that  shall  preach 
my  ffunerall  sermon  twenty  shillings.  I  appoint  Mary  Newcomen  my  beloved  kinswoman  sole 
Executrix.  I  would  desire  my  brother  Mr  Steven  Newcomen  her  ffather  to  be  assistant  to  her 
and  I  give  tenn  pounds  for  his  paines.  I  have  given  away  some  land  that  was  tyed  to  me 
by  my  brother  Mr  Thomas  Whiting  of  Hadleigh.  If  my  cousin  Joseph  Whiting  shall  pay  unto 
Mary  Newcomen  the  moneys  due  to  me  and  unpaid  she  shall  release  the  said  land  to  the  said 
Joseph  Whiting. 

Probatum  vicesimo  primo  die  Julij  1703  Juramto  Maria?  Newcomen  Executricis. 

P.C.C.  Ill  Degg. 

Sa 


132 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Inscription,  St.  1‘aumtcr's  Cljnrrb,  Ipstotclj, 

Here 

onderneath  lye  ya  bodys  of  Eliz¬ 
abeth,  ye  Wife  of  Samll  Layton,  of  London, 

Gent.,  daughter  of  Henry  Whiting,  some  time 
Bailiff  of  this  Town  And  Mary  his  wife,  and  Anne,  y“ 
daughter  of  ye  said  Sam11  and  Eliz :,  Anne  departed 
this  life  ye  10th  Ocber,  and  Eliz:  (who  after  10 
months  marriage  dyd  in  childbed)  ye  14  of  ye  same 
month  Ano  Dom.  1685. 

“  Not  a  year  matcht,  the  first  fruites  of  our  love, 

She  with  herself  offer’d  to  God  above.” 

Uxor  lunarum  paucorum  nata  dierum 
Mollia  nunc  mollis  corpora  condat  humus 
non  omnis  vita;  mi  sene  amplaxabitur  hora 
Postque  brevem  vitam  non  moriturus  Amor 
Moerens  posuit  maritus  et  pater. 


Mill  of  loscpb  Hinting,  1747. 

Joseph  Whiting  of  Stratford  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  gentleman.  Unto  Hannah  Whiting 

my  wife,  in  lieu  of  her  thirds,  my  estate  in  Polsted  co.  Suffolk  and  lands  in  Hadleigh,  Layham 

and  Roydon  co.  Suffolk  for  life  or  during  the  term  of  her  widowhood,  which  shall  first  happen, 

and  after  her  decease  to  my  son  Thomas  Whiting  and  his  heirs  for  ever.  Unto  my  said  son 

Thomas  my  estate  in  Newton  co.  Suffolk  called  the  Sarricons  head  with  lands  &c.  belonging ; 
also  estate  in  Assington  or  Wisston  co.  Suffolk.  Unto  Hannah  my  daughter  and  her  heirs 
estates  in  Combes  and  Little  Finborow  and  estate  in  Hadleigh  now  in  the  occupation  of  Nathaniel 
Fairclough,  gent,  and  John  Hasted.  Unto  Hannah  my  wife  my  Household  goods  &c.  and  all 
my  Plate  for  life,  and  after  her  decease  to  my  two  children,  Thomas  and  Hannah  Whiting. 

To  Thomas  Whiting  my  son  two  hundred  pounds  due  from  John  Eisher  of  Holland  co.  Essex, 

my  diamond  ring  &c.  &c.  The  rest  of  all  my  goods  to  Hannah  my  wife,  whom  I  appoint  my 
Executrix  together  with  Simon  Dove  Esqr  of  Barham  co.  Suffolk.  This  31st  day  of  October, 
1747.  This  will  was  proved  the  18th  of  March,  1757,  by  the  Oath  of  Hannah  Whiting, 
widow :  power  being  reserved  to  make  the  like  grant  to  Simon  Dove  Esqr  the  other  Executor. 

P.C.C.  106  Herring. 

Matthew  Newcomen,  whose  step-daughter,  Mary  Raney,  married  the  testator’s  uncle,  was 
son  of  Stephen  Newcomen  of  Colchester  and  grandson  of  John  Newcomen  and  Alice  Gascoign 

his  wife.  His  great  grandfather  was  Brian  Newcomen  of  Saltfleetby,  co.  Lincoln.  When  the 

Visitation  of  Lincolnshire  was  taken  in  1592  (The  Genealogist,  vol.  v)  Stephen  Newcomen,  the 
father,  was  “a  Student  in  Cambridge.”  See  Matthew  Newcomen’s  life  in  the  National  Dictionary 
of  Biography. 


WHITING  OF  HADLEIGH. 


133 


mbitins  ^rtugrffd  from  tfjr  CanUUr  HSL&&. 


i - 

Henry  Whiting 
s.p. 


.  .  .  .  Whiting  of  Boxforde. 


John  Whiteing 
of  Hadleigh. 


=j=Rose  daughter  of 
Fisher  of  Buers. 


rm 


i - - - “ - r  '  ' — 

Rose  Whiting  married  1st  to  Dauid  The  rest  died 
Wood  a  citizen  of  London;  2,  to  young. 

Henry  Proctour. 


Anne  Whiteing  married  to 
Robert  Payne ;  they  went 
into  New  England. 


Mary  Whiting  1st  married  to  George  Coivper  •' 
2,  to  Nicholas  Stanton,  clarke,  3d1!/  to  Samuel 
Slater  clarke. 


John  Whitings  Judith  daughter  of  John  Har — Robert  Howe— Matthew  Lawrence  Toume  Henry  Whiteing=f=Mary  daughter  of  Robert  Crane 


of  Hadleigh, 
Alderman. 


rison  of  Sudbury,  clarke. 


John  Whiting. 


of  Sudbury.  Preacher  of  Ipswich  ;  3. 
husband. 

— ”~i 

Thomas  Whiteing,  eldest  sonne. 


Portman  of  Ips¬ 
wich. 


of  Cockshall  in  Essex. 


Mary  Whiteing. 


Rose. 


John  Whiteing  s.p.  Margaret.  Christian. 


Elizabeth. 


- I 

Judith. 


i - - 

John  Harrison 
of  Waltham  in 
Essex . 


John  Harrison  of  Sudbury  came  out  of =p Judith  daughter  of— William  Richardson, 


ye  north  of  England.  He  was  a  pious 
man  and  an  eminent  preacher  in  the 
time  of  K.  James  and  K.  Charles. 


Isaac  Wincoll  ( 8f) 
of  Mary  da,ught’  of 
Sr  . . .  Gaudy e  Knt. 


Gent,  of  Hadleigh, 
Alderman,  her2d  hus¬ 
band. 


Isaac  Harrison, 
Rector  of  Had¬ 
leigh  in  Suff. 
D.D.  1657. 


Thomas 
Harrison 
of  Col- 
lidge. 


Robert=  Judith  Harrison,  first  married— Matthew  Lawrence, Towne  preach-—  John  Whiting 
Howe  of  to  Robert  Howe  of  Sudbury  and  er  of  Ipswich,  3  husband ;  xohich  of  Hadleigh, 
Sudbury,  after  to  Matthew  Lawrence  of  Mr  Lawrence  was  of  a  family  in  Alderman. 
Ipswich,  preacher.  Lincolnshire. 


Mary  daughter  of  Samuell  Sparhatvke=r Robert  Crane  of  Coxhall  —Margaret  daughter  of  Robert  Maidston  of  Boxsted 


of  Dedham  in  Essex. 


in  Essex. 


Samuell 

Craine. 


Elizabeth=j=Thomas  Craine  of — .  .  .  daughter  of  Har-— Anne 


Markam. 


Kelvedon  in  Essex. 


i - 

Thomas. 


John. 


hall  in  Essex,  the  relict  of  Walter  Clopton. 


rington  of  Hawsted  ii  Reinolds 
wife.  Hi  wife. 


Margaret  married  to  Nathaniel 
Rogers  rector  of  Assington 
whence  he  ivent  into  Netv 
England. 


Mary  married  to 
Henry  Whiting 
Portm’  of  Ips¬ 
wich. 


The  rest 
all  died 
s.p. 


Prifti-=f=Gilbert  Rany  minist’ 
at  Stoake  parish  in  Ips¬ 
wich. 


=f -Hannah  daughter  of  Robert=^Matthew  Newcomen 
Snelling  Esqr  a  Portman  of  Lecturer  at  Dedham 
Ipswich.  in  Essex. 


Elizabeth  Rany  married  to  Christ ’  Mary  married  to 

Wase,  Schoolmaster  of  Dedham.  John  Whiteing, 

=f=  clerke. 


Elizabeth.  Hannah. 


— i  j — ! — j — , — | — , — ; - 1 - 1  | - i  | - 

Mattheiv,  Matthew,  Elizabeth  Stephen  Hannah  Martha 

Thomas,  Hannah,  Newcomen.  Newcomen.  Newcomen.  New  - 

Martha,  Sarah,  comen. 

Sarah,  all  died  in¬ 
fants. 


I 

Alice 

New¬ 

comen. 


Harl.  MS.  6071,  collated  with  Tanner  MS.  Lib.  Bodleian,  257. 


134 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


^rtugrrr,  OTjtttng  of  $?airtrit$. 


Isaac  Wincoll  of  Netherhall^pMary,  dau.  of  Sir  Thomas  Gawdy  Thomas  Whiting  of  Boxford,  in=pJulian,  his  wife, 


and  of  Twynsted,  co.  Essex, 
Esq.  He  d.  1638,  and  was  bur. 
in  Twynsted  church. 


of  Gawdy  Hall  in  Redenhall,  co. 
Norfolk,  Knt.  His  Will,  P.C.C.  22 
Leicester,  1  Nov.  1576. 


co.  Suffolk.  Candler.  Will, 
Archd.  Sudb.  8  Aug.  34th  Eliza¬ 
beth,  proved  3  April  1593. 


proved  her  hus¬ 
band’s  Will  in 
1593. 


John  Harrison 
of  Sudbury,  co. 
Suff.,  clerk.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
14  April  1639 ; 
1st  husband. 


r*r-i - 

Isaac  Harrison, 
D.D.,  Rector  of 
Hadleigh,  1657 ; 
JohnHarrisonof 
Waltham, Essex, 
clerk,  1658 ;  and 
Thos.  Harrison. 


Judith  Wincoll.~Wm.  Richardson,  gent, 
She  made  Will  Alderman  of  Hadleigh, 
as  Judith  Rich-  2d  husbd.  Will,  P.C.C. 
ardson,  10  June  452  Pell  3  Mar.  1658; 
1659.  P.C.C.  issue  by  a  former 
115  Juxon.  wife. 


i — i - - - 

Thomas  Whiting, 
living  1592. 

Henry  Whiting, 
living  1592,  died 
s.p.  Candler. 


John  Whiting,  Alder-=f=Rose,  dau.  of  Wm. 


man  ofHadleigh.  Will, 
P.C.C.  150  Goare,  2 
April  1637  ;  prob.  15 
Dec.  follg.  M.I.  in 
Hadley  church. 


George  Cooper,  1st  husbd., = 
brother  to  Samuel  Henry 
Cooper,  Rector  of  Earl 
Stonham ;  had  son,  George 
Cooper,  Fellow  of  Magda¬ 
len  Coll.  Oxford.  Candler. 


I - 

Mary  Whiting  ;- 
her  3d  husband 
was  Sami.  Slater, 
Minister  of  St. 
Katherine’s  in 
London.  Candler. 


A 


^Nicholas  Stanton  of 
Ipswich,  clerk,  2d 
husbd.  Will,  P.C.C. 
31  Pembroke  9  Nov. 
1648.  Mont,  in  St. 
Margaret’s  church, 
Ipswich. 


Rose,  wife  of 
David  Wood, 
citizen  ofLon- 
don  ;  she  re- 
nupt  Henry 
Proctor,  gent. 


Fisher  of  Bures. 
Rose  Fisher,  her 
mother,  made  Will 
Cur.  Ep.  N.  1604. 


- 1 — i — i 

Alice,  Anne 
and  Mary, 
named  in 
their  fath¬ 
er’s  Will, 
1592. 


Robert  Howe-pMatth e w  Lawrence, =f  Judith  Harrison, =pJohnWhiting,  Alder- 


of  Sudbury  in 
Suffolk ;  1st 
husband,  s.  & 
h.  of  Robert 
Howe  of  Le 
Friers,  Gent. 


Town  Preacher  of  Ips¬ 
wich;  3d  husband.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.  19  Feb. 
1651, prob.20  May  1652; 
issue  by  a  former  mar¬ 
riage. 


living  1682  and 
then  described  as 
Mrs.  Lawrence  of 
Marlesford. 


Robert  Howe  of 
Witnesham,  co. 
Suff.,  gent.  Will, 
P.C.C.,  Ill  Degg, 
1  Jan  1701,  prov¬ 
ed  21  July  1703 ; 
ob.  s.p. 


Mary  Lawrence,  = 
sole  issue  by  this 
marriage;  devisee 
of  Robert  Howe, 
her  half  brother, 
in  1701. 


A 


:  Stephen  N  e  wcomen 
of  Marlesford,  co. 
Suffolk,  clerk ;  son 
of  Matthew  New¬ 
comen  of  Leyden 
in  Holland,  clerk. 


man  of  Hadleigh  ;  2d 
husbd.  Will,P.C.C.31 
Rivers,  16  Jan.  1643, 
probt.  30  Jan.  1644. 
M.I.  in  Hadleigh 
church. 


HenryWhiting,  gent.,Port-r 
man  of  Ipswich.  Entered 
pedigree  in  the  Suffolk 
Visitn.  1664.  AVill,  P.C.C. 
70  Foote  13  Mar.  1686 ; 
prob.  11  May  1687. 


i  n  r 

Henry  Whiting,  1685. 

Judith  Whiting,  1685. 

John,  s.p.,  and  Rose. 
Candler. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  Samuel 
Layton  of  London,  gent., 
d.  14  Oct.  1685.  Monu¬ 
ment  in  St.  Lawrence’s 
church,  Ipswich,  to  her 
and  her  infant  daughter. 


Anne,  mar.  Robert 
Payne;  they  were  liv¬ 
ing  in  New  England 
in  1643 ;  they  had 
two  sons,  Robert  and 
John  Payne,  1637. 


:Mary, sister  to  SamuelCrane 
of  Coggeshall,  gent.,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C.  97  Penn, 
proved  10  Aug.  1670.  Her 
sister  mar.NathanielRogers 
of  Ipswich  in  New  Eng¬ 
land. 


Mary,  mar.  to  John  Blom- 
field,  s.  and  h.  of  Wm.Blom- 
field,  Esq.,  of  Bildeston, 
who  entered  ped.in  the  Suf¬ 
folk  Visitation,  1664. 


Thomas  Whiting  of=pMary,  dau.  of  Joseph  Beau- 


Hadleigh,  eldest  son. 
Will,  P.C.C.  97  Hare, 
16  Nov.  1682,  proved 
12  July  1684.  M.I. 
in  Hadleigh  church. 


mont  of  Hadleigh,  gent., 
who  entered  ped.  in  the 
Suffolk  Visitn.  1664.  She 
ob.  9  May  1703,  aged  63. 
M.I.  in  Hadleigh  church. 


John  Whiting,  Rector  of  = 
Groton,  mar.  at  Dedham 
I70ct.l661.  Will, P.C.C. 
189  North,  11  March 
1680,  prob.  3  Dec.  1681 ; 
bur.  in  Groton  chancel. 


:Mary,  dau.  of  Gilbert  Rain¬ 
ey,  minister  of  Stoke  Parish 
in  Ipswich  by  Hannah,  dau. 
of  Robert  Snelling,  Esq. 
Her  Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  was 
proved  in  1687. 


Margaret,  mar.  Sir  Chris- 
Peyton  Ventris,  Kt.,  tian, 
Justice  of  the  Com-  mar. 
mon  Pleas, who  made  Henry 
Will,  P.C.C.  73  Vere  Par- 
28  March  1691,  prov-  sons, 
ed  27  April  followg. 


I  ,  -  | 

Joseph  Whiting  of  Strat-=pHan-  Martha  Whit-  Judith  Whit- 
ford,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.  nah.  ing,  devisee  of  ing,  devisee  of 

Will,  P.C.C.  106  Herring,  her  grand-  her  grand- 

31  Oct.  1747,  proved  18  father  Beau-  father  Beau- 

March  1757.  M.I.inHad-  mont  1681.  mont  1681. 

leigh  church. 


Edward  Ventris  of  the  Chantrey,: 
Sproughton,  Esqr.  Will,  P.C.C. 
212  Browne  1  Jan.  1739,  proved 
15  July  1740.  To  be  buried  in 
St.  Nicholas  ch.,  Ipswich;  had 
with  other  issue. 


=Mary,  sister  of  Row¬ 
land  Holt  of  Red¬ 
grave,  co.  Suffolk, 
Esq.;  niece  to  Sir 
John  Holt,  Knt., 
Lord  Chief  Justice. 


Peyton  Ven¬ 
tris,  Esq.,tho 
eldest  son, 
died  s.p. 

Other  issue. 


Thomas  Whiting, 
son  and  heir. 


- 1 

Hannah. 


Edward  Ventris,  Rector  of  Brandon  and  Burgate,  bur.  1674 
in  St.  Nicholas  church,  Ipswich. 


WHITING  OF  HADLEIGH. 


135 


firtitgnx,  Crane  of  CoijgcQljaU. 


Crane  of  .  .  .=f= 


Mary  dau.  of  Sam¬ 
uel  Sparhawke  of 
Dedham  in  Essex ; 
sister  to  John  Spar¬ 
hawke  ofGreatCog- 
geshall,  who  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  30 
Brent  1653.  Had 
brother  inNewEug- 
land.  She  was  bur. 
at  Coggeshall  16 
Oct.  1639. 


Robert  Crane  of= 
Coggeshall,  co. 
Essex,  1614.  Will, 
P.C.C.  179  Pell ; 
proved  18  March 
1658 ;  names  bro¬ 
ther-in-law,  Mr. 
Nathaniel  Bacon. 


-Margaret,  dau.  of- 
Robt.  Maidstone  of 
Boxhall,  co.  Essex, 
gent.,  mar  :  settle¬ 
ment  16  Aug.  1630. 
Her  sister  mar. 
Nathaniel  Bacon, 
Esq.,  M.P.  for 
Bury. 


-Walter  Clopton,  1st 
husb.  of  Boxsted,  Gent., 
who  made  Will  24  Dec. 
1622,  and  was  then  of 
Coggeshall.  His  son 
Wm.  Clopton  is  termed 
“  brother  ”  by  Samuel 
Crane  in  1669. 


Thomas 
Crane ; 
dead  in 
1658. 


1 — i - 


Joan,  mar.  Foul- 
sham,  and  had 
son  Robert  Foul- 
sham  of  Stisted, 
living  1669;  she 
seems  to  have 
died  before 
1658. 


Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Robt.  and  Margaret  Crane ;  bapt.  at 
Coggeshall  11  May  1631 ;  wife  of  William  Chaplyn  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  who  was  dead  in  1669. 


— i 

Diana,  Elizabeth,  Margaret, 
Frances  and  Bridget ;  all 
living  in  1658. 


Mr.  John  Crane, 
living  1669  in  or 
near  Horham  in 
Sulf  olkwhenSaml . 
Crane,  his  nephew, 
made  his  Will. 


John  Crane, 
1669. 


Samuel  Crane  of  Cogges¬ 
hall,  gent.  Will,  P.C.C.  97 
Penn,  Nov.  1669;  proved 
10  Aug.  1670.  Founded 
charity  in  Coggeshall. 

The  rest  died  young. 
Candler. 


Elizabeth,  dau.; 
of  Wm.  Mark- 
ant  of  Kelvedon, 
co.  Essex,  who 
made  Will  8 
Jan.  1643  P.C.C. 
19  Rivers ;  prov¬ 
ed  18  December 
1644. 


=Thomas  Crane  of- 
Kelvedon,  gent. 
Will,  11  Nov.  1654, 
P.C.C.  159  Aylett ; 
bapt.  at  Cogges¬ 
hall,  1617.  His  2d 
wife,  dau.  of  Har¬ 
rington  of  Haw- 
sted.  Candler. 


-Anne  Reinolds, 
3d  wife ;  was 
wife  of  Mr.  Ro¬ 
bert  Andrews, 
1666,  when  Ro¬ 
bert  Crane,  her 
stepson,  made 
his  will. 


Robert  Crane, 
to  whom  his 
father  left  rent 
charges  inl658. 
His  relict  was 

wife  of . 

Daynes  inl669; 
bapt.  at  Cog¬ 
geshall  1615. 


i — i - - 

Thomas  Crane, not 
named  in  his  fa¬ 
ther’s  Will,  1654. 


John  Crane, 
named,  1654. 


not 


- 1 - - - — -  — 

Robert  Crane  of  Hadleigh, 
co.  Suffolk,  gent.  Will, 
P.C.C.  51  Coke,  13  May 
1666,  probt.  22  May  1669. 
Lands  in  Kelvedon  to  his 
sister  Mary. 


Mary  Crane,  mar.  as  2d  wife 
Laurence  Stysted  of  Ipswich, 
gent. ;  and  heir  to  her  broth¬ 
er,  Robert  Crane.  Henry 
Whiting,  1685,  terms  him 
“  cousin.” 


Robert  Crane  of  Braintree' 
in Essex, “cousin” to  Sami. 
Crane  1669. 


Margaret,  mar. 
Nathanl.  Rogers, 
Rector  of  Assing- 
ton  in  Suffolk. 
He  was  of  Ips¬ 
wich,  New  Eng¬ 
land,  1669,  and 
left  numerous  de¬ 
scendants. 


Mary,  mar.  Hen¬ 
ry  Whiting  Port- 
man  of  Ipswich, 
who  made  Will 
22  March,  1685, 
P.C.C.  70  Foot. 
His  dau.  mar.  Sir 
Peyton  Yentris. 


Robert  Crane,  1669. 


Mary  Rogers  mar. 
Mr.  William  Hub¬ 
bard  of  Ipswich  in 
New  England, 
“  cousin  ”  to  Sam¬ 
uel  Crane,  1669. 


IJriitjjrfe,  Drtucomrn  of  OTttitrsIjain. 


Stephen  Newcomen  of  Colchester,  3d  s.  of  John  Newcomen  of  Saltlleetby,  co.  Lincoln.' 


.  .  .  Prety-; 
man,  for¬ 
mer  wife. 
Candler. 


Gilbert  Raney, = 
minister  of  St. 
Mary  Stoke, 
Ipswich.  Cand¬ 
ler. 


Hannah,  dau.  of  Robert  Snelling,  Esq.,  of= 
Ipswich.  She  made  Will  as  Hannah  New¬ 
comen  of  Ipswich,  widow,  P.C.C.  115  Dicer, 
18  April  1672,  naming  her  sister,  Alice 
Scott. 


Elizabeth  Raney  mar.  Christopher  Wase 
of  Dedham,  and  had  issue  Elizabeth, 
Hannah  and  Christopher  Wase.  Hannah 
Wase  was  of  Ipswich,  spinster,  when 
Thomas  Whiting  made  his  Will  in  1682. 


Mary  Raney  mar.  John  Whit- 
ingof  Groton,  co.  Suffolk,  clerk, 
who  made  Will,  P.C.C.  189, 
North,  11  March  1680,  naming 
the  Newcomes. 


'Matthew  Newcomen,  lec¬ 
turer  at  Dedham  inEssex; 
sometime  of  Leyden  in 
Holland,  clerk ;  dead  18 
April  1682. 


Thomas  New-=p 
comen, Rector 
of  Clothall, 
Herts,  1653. 


Ambrose  Newcomen, 
devisee  of  Hannah 
Newcomen,  his  aunt, 
1672. 


Alice  Scott 
of  Ipswich, 
widow,  in 
her  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.; 
names  some 
of  her  sister 
Newcom¬ 
en’s  child¬ 
ren,  1686. 


Stephen  N ewcomen^-Mary,  dau.  of  Matthew  Law-  Elizabeth 

of  Witnesham.  co.  rence,  town  preacher  of  Ips-  Newcomen, 
wich,  by  Judith  Harrison  named  in 
Harrison  (relict  of  Robert  her  mother’s 
Howe  and  John  Whiting).  Will,  1672. 
She  made  Will,  5  Feb.  1704. 


of  Witnesham,  co. 
Suffolk,  clerk.  Will 
17  May  1703  ;  was 
of  Marlesford  in 
1680. 


Hannah,  mar.  to  Jo¬ 
seph  Hudson.  She 
made  Will  asHannah 
Hudson  of  Ipswich, 
wo.  P.C.C.  206  Fox, 
6  April  1715. 


MarthaN  ewcomen 
was  wife  of  John 
Denton  in  1680, 
when  John  Whit¬ 
ing  made  his  Will. 


- 1 — I 

Alice  Newcomen, 
s.p.  in  1680. 

Seven  children 
died  in  infancy. 
Candler. 


Stephen  Newcomen, 
living  1705. 


Matthew  Newcomen, 
living  1705. 


T 


Robert  Newcomen,  devisee  of  Robert 
nowe  of  Witnesham,  1701. 


Mary  Newcomen,  executrix  to  her  uncle, 
Robert  Howe  of  Witnesham,  1703. 


JSrigijt  of 


t.  Ctmumtislmrp 


♦ 


Armorial  Hearings. 

“  Sable,  a  fess  Argent,  between  three  escallops  Or,  is  born  by  the  name  of  Bright,  and 
was  at  first  granted  to  Thomas  Bright  of  St.  Edmondsbury  in  Suffolk,  son  of  Thomas  and  Mary 
his  wife,  daughter  of  ...  .  Peiton,  by  William  Camden,  Clarencieux,  in  the  14th  year  of  the 
Reign  of  King  James  the  First  (1616).” 

“  Afterwards  the  same  coat  was  confirmed  to  one  Thomas  Bright  of  Netherhall  in  Suffolk, 
eldest  son  of  Robert  Bright,  who  was  second  brother  to  Thomas  Bright  of  Sfc  Edmondsbury 

abovesaid,  by  Sir  John  Borough,  the  29th  of  July  1641,  and  17th  year  of  the  reign  of  King 

Charles  the  First.”  Guillim’s  Heraldry ,  Sixth  Edition,  pp.  244,  245. 

At  the  Visitation  of  Suffolk  in  1664,  William  Bright,  Esq.,  of  Talmach  Hall,  the  grandson 

of  Thomas  of  St.  Edmundsbury,  bore  the  arms  above  described  together  with  a  crest,  viz.  : — 

A  dragon’s  head  Gules,  collared  and  lined  Or,  vomiting  flames  of  fire.  And  Thomas  Bright  of 
Net  her  hall,  son  of  the  Thomas  Bright  to  whom  these  insignia  had  been  confirmed  “p.  Boroughe 
Garter”  in  1641,  was  allowed  the  same  properly  differentiated  by  a  crescent.  Ilarl.  MS.  1085. 

“  The  Brights  of  Suffolk,  England,”  a  model  work  of  its  kind,  printed  at  Boston,  Massachusetts, 
in  1858,  gives  an  almost  exhaustive  history  of  the  family,  together  with  the  wills,  pedigrees, 
monumental  inscriptions  and  other  records  upon  which  it  is  based.  The  documents  which  we 
now  subjoin  are,  for  the  most  part,  the  outcome  of  more  recent  research,  and  some  of  them  are 
new  to  genealogists. 


Mill  of  Shorn  as  iSright,  1587. 

The  twentith  daie  of  Auguste,  1587,  and  in  the  nine  and  twentith  yeare  of  the  raigne 
of  our  most  noble  and  soueraigne  ladie  Queene  Elizabeth,  I  Thomas  Brighte  the  elder  of  Burye 
saincte  Edmondes,  draper,  do  herebie  declare  this  my  laste  will  and  testamente.  And  herein  first 
and  especiallie  I  commende  my  sowle  into  the  mercifull  handes  of  allmightie  god,  trustinge  in 
the  merites  and  passion  of  Jesus  Christe  to  haue  pardon  of  my  sinnes.  I  giue  vnto  Margarett 
my  wife  my  mannor  known  by  the  name  of  Botters  in  Tompson  in  the  countie  of  Norff.  and  the 
stocke  of  foure  hundred  sheepe  vnto  the  said  mannor  belonginge,  and  also  my  tenementes  called 
Bees  and  Brightemears  in  Tompson  aforesaid :  also  my  porcon  of  tithyes  dewe  oute  of  the  mannor 
of  Broocke  halle  in  Foxeyearthe  in  Essex,  and  other  my  meisuages  Ac.  in  Burie,  Barton  next 
Burye,  Nowton  and  Fornham  sainct  Martin,  to  houlde  duringe  the  whole  tearme  of  (her)  life,  yf 
she  shall  keape  her  vnmarried.  And  yf  the  said  Margarette  shall  happen  to  marrie  again  all 
(these)  giftes  shalbe  vtter  voide  and  (she)  shall  haue  onelie  one  annuitye  of  fiftie  poundes  a 


BRIGHT  OF  ST.  EDMUNDSBURY. 


137 


yeare  from  thencefforth.  After  the  decease  or  mariage  of  the  said  Margarette  I  bequeatli  vnto 
the  feoffees  of  the  landes  and  tenntes  of  the  towne  of  Bury  and  their  heires  for  ever  my  porcon 
of  tithes  paieable  out  of  the  mantio1'  of  Broocke  hall  in  Foxeyearth  to  the  vses  followinge : 
That  fortie  shillinges  yearelye  maie  be  bestowed  in  the  reparations  of  the  churches  of  sainct 
James  and  sancti  Marve  in  Burye ;  and  fortie  shillinges  maie  yearly  be  imploied  to  the  releife 
of  the  poore :  and  twentie  shillinges  maie  be  bestowed  vppon  the  poore  prisoners  in  the  gaell  of 
Burye :  and  yf  further  proffittes  maie  be  made  of  the  said  tythes  I  will  that  (they)  shalbe 

imploied  to  other  godlie  and  charitable  vses.  I  giue  vnto  Thomas  Brighte  my  sonne,  after  the 
decease  of  the  said  Margarett  my  wife  or  after  the  daie  of  her  marriage,  my  mannor  of  botters 
in  Tompson,  the  tenementes  called  Bees  and  Brightemeares  with  all  the  messuages,  landes,  heath 
groundes.  sheppes  walkes,  &c.,  belonginge,  together  with  the  stocke  of  fower  hundred  ewes,  duringe 
the  tearme  of  (his)  life.  And  after  (his  decease)  then  vnto  Walter  Brighte  the  sonne  of  my 
said  sonne  Thomas  and  to  (his)  heires  males.  I  giue  vnto  Roberte  Brighte  my  sonne,  after  the 
decease  of  Margarette  my  wife  my  farme  called  Bartton  place  in  greate  Barton,  with  all  the 
meadowes,  pastures,  sheppes  walkes,  woodes  itc.  I  bequeath  vnto  Henrye  Brighte  my  sonne,  after 
the  decease  or  marriage  of  my  wife,  those  lands  and  tenementes  in  Barton  which  I  lately 

purchased  of  Sr  Roberte  Jermyn  and  George  Cocke.  I  giue  vnto  Jasper  Brighte  my  sonne, 

immediately  after  the  decease  or  marriage  of  Margarete  my  wife,  my  messuage  in  Nowton. 
Vnto  the  said  Thomas  Brighte  my  sonne  after  my  wifes  decease  my  close  in  Westgate  Streete 
in  Burie  which  Walter  Brighte  my  father  did  giue  vnto  me  by  his  last  will,  and  also  that 
orcharde  adioyning  which  I  latelie  pui  chased  of  Milles  Blomfilde.  Vnto  Henry  Brighte  my  sonne 
my  messuage  wherein  I  now  dwell,  and  the  tenemente  wherein  Thomas  Brighte  my  sonne  now 
dwellithe,  and  the  shoppe  and  taverne  which  I  late  had  of  the  ffeoffc merits  and  graunts  of  the 
ffeoffees  of  the  landes  and  tenntes  of  the  towne  of  Burye.  etc.  <tc. — stables,  shoppes,  tavernes  or 
sellers,  stone  house,  Dove  house,  yearde  and  hopgrounde.  Vnto  Jasper  my  sonne  my  messuage 
(on  the  decease  of  Margarette  my  wife)  with  one  stable  and  the  house  which  I  latelie  builded, 
lieinge  in  Burie  in  Skinners  rowe  and  Smithes  rowe,  and  my  meadowe  at  Bab  well  mille.  Vnto 
Margarette  my  daughter  nowe  the  wife  of  Mr  Roodes,  Agnes  my  daughter  now  the  wife  of 
Thomas  Reade,  Katherine  my  daughter  when  twentie  one,  Anne  my  daughter,  when  twentie  one 
or  on  the  daie  of  her  mariage,  and  vnto  Suzan  my  daughter.  Vnto  Thomas  and  Henrye  sonnes 
of  the  said  Agnes.  Vnto  the  children  of  my  sonne  Thomas  Bright  which  byn  now  livinge. 
Vnto  Edmond  Brighte  my  brother  and  Thomas  his  sonne.  Vnto  the  wife  of  William  Osbonde 
of  Burie.  Vnto  the  children  of  my  brother  John  Bright.  Vnto  the  poore  of  Burie  ffowre 
poundes.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  shall  be  deuided  betweene  my  children  and  the  poore,  the 
poore  to  haue  one  (like)  parte  or  porcon.  I  make  Margarette  my  wife  sole  executrix.  And  if 
she  marrye  againe,  Thomas  and  Roberte  my  sonnes  to  be  executors.  I  requeste  Mr  Jervis  of 
Whepsted  my  father  in  lawe  to  be  superuisor.  Probatum  vicesimo  quinto  die  Septembris  1587 

juramento  procuratoris  Margarete  Brighte  relicte.  P.C.C.  53  Spencer. 

This  will  is  in  part  recited  in  the  Inquisition  post  mortem  of  Thomas  Bright  taken  at 
Thetford  in  the  43rd  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  He  was  found  to  have  been  seized  of  the 
Manor  of  Butters  als  Buttalls  als  Tompson  Hall  in  Tompson  co.  Norfolk,  together  with  a  capital 
messuage  called  Brightmeres.  He  had  died  on  the  30th  of  August  in  the  29th  year  of  the  said 
queen  (1587);  and  Thomas  Bright  his  son  and  heir  was  aged  thirty  years  and  upwards. 
Escheats,  Eliz.,  1.  57.  Similar  Inquisitions  were  taken  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds  in  the  29th 
year  of  Q.  Elizabeth,  and  at  Stratford  Langthorne  in  the  43d  year  of  Q.  Elizabeth  in  connection 

T 


138 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


with  his  Suffolk  and  Essex  estates.  Engravings  of  his  portrait,  which  is  still  remaining  in  the 
Guildhall  at  Bury,  will  be  found  in  “  The  Brights  of  Suffolk,  England,”  and  “  Bond’s  History  of 
Watertown,”  published  in  the  United  States. 

Mr.  Jervis  of  Whepsted.  the  father  in  law  whom  Thomas  Bright  appointed  to  be  his 
supervisor,  was  the  second  husband  of  Joan  Payton,  his  wife’s  mother.  His  will,  dated  9th  July 
1594,  was  proved  in  the  Court  of  the  Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury  on  the  2d  of  December  of  the 
same  year.  See  “  Pedigree  of  Payton,  Hammond  and  Langham  of  London,”  Suffolk  Manorial 
Families ,  vol.  i,  262. 


MtU  of  Stephen  Moa&gate,  1598. 

In  the  name  of  God,  to  whose  maiestie  be  all  honor  and  glorie,  Amen  The  tenth  daie 
of  Maye,  1598.  I  Steven  Woodgate  of  Estberholte  in  the  countie  of  Suff.  clothier,  make  this 
will.  I  give  vnto  Steven  Woodgate  my  sonne  by  Mary  my  late  wife  my  messuage  wherin  I 
now  dwell,  and  all  my  landes  and  tenementes  wcU  came  to  me  by  the  guifte  of  Steven  Woodgate 
my  late  ffather  and  lands  purchased  of  Edward  Cole  and  Edward  Forthe  gentleman,  with 
remainders,  failing  issue  of  the  said  Steven,  to  Thomas  Woodgate  my  sonne,  Beniamin  Woodgate 
my  sonne  and  John  Woodgate  my  sonne.  Vnto  Thomas  Woodgate  my  sonne  my  free  tenement 
in  Estberholt  which  I  newelie  built,  my  tenemente  &  landes  called  Warryshall,  and  free  meadowe, 
latelie  bough te  of  William  Cardinall,  gentleman,  lying  next  the  olde  River  Vnto  Beniamin  my 
sonne  house  latelie  bough  te  of  John  Woodgate  my  brother  <fcc.  Vnto  Daniell  my  sonne  three 
tenementes  in  East  Berholt  betwene  the  lande  of  Adam  Cardynall  and  the  waie  enteringe  into 
Barfold  heath.  Vnto  John  Woodgate  my  sonne  tenemente  latelie  boughte  of  Edward  Markes, 
tenemente  late  bought  of  Robert  Auger  <fcc.  To  Thomas  Beniamin  and  John  Woodgate,  my 
sonnes,  to  everie  of  them,  three  hundred  poundes  at  their  ages  of  one  and  twentie  yeeres.  To 
Daniel  Woodgate  my  sonne  fouer  hundred  poundes  at  his  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  To 
Hanna  my  daughter  two  hundred  poundes  at  her  age  of  eightene  yeeres.  My  sonne  in  lawe 
John  Goodwin  shall  haue  the  education  of  the  said  John  Woodgate  my  sonne  vntill  his  said  age 
of  one  and  twentie  yeares,  and  shall  see  him  well  and  vertuouslie  brought  vpp  with  the  proffitte 
of  the  three  hundred  poundes.  My  good  frende  and  loveinge  kynsman  Roberte  Deranghe  of  Grayes 
Inne  gent,  shall  haue  the  custodie  of  three  hundred  poundes,  pcell  of  the  legacie  giuen  to  Daniell 

Woodgate  my  sonne,  to  see  him  vertuouslie  brought  up  in  learninge.  My  brother  John  Woodgate 

shall  haue  the  two  hundred  poundes  giuen  to  my  daughter  Hanna  Woodgate  to  see  her  brought 
vp.  If  he  refuse  to  become  bounde  to  her  then  my  loveing  kinsman  Edmond  Barker  of  Sibton 
gentleman  shall  receiue  the  two  hundred  poundes  with  the  proffitte  of  the  same  to  see  her  brought 
vp  and  shall  become  bound  to  her  for  the  true  payment  of  the  same.  My  sonne  in  lawe  John 
Howe  shall  take  the  one  hundred  poundes  being  the  residue  of  my  portion  giuen  vnto  Daniell 
my  sonne,  to  be  paid  to  (him)  at  his  age  of  eightene  yeeres  so  far  forthe  as  it  be  thought  fitt 

by  my  cozen  Robert  Deraugh  gent,  and  my  sonne  in  law  John  Goodwin.  Vnto  Elizabeth 

Houburd  my  kinswoman  five  poundes.  To  Samuell  Skynner  my  kinsman  six  poundes.  To  Marie 
Skynner  my  kinswoman  six  pounds.  To  Anne  Borrowe  the  wiefe  of  Xpofer  Borrowe  and  to 
my  sister  in  lawe  Woodgate  the  wife  of  my  brother  John  Woodgate  to  either  of  them  a  spurr 
Riall  to  make  either  of  them  a  gold  ringe.  To  Elizabeth  Borrowe  the  daughter  of  the  saide 


BRIGHT  OF  ST.  EDMUNDSBURY. 


139 


Anne  Borrowe  a  french  crowne  to  make  her  a  gold  ringe.  My  godsonne  Steven  Thorpe,  Elizabeth 
Woodgate  my  kinswoman,  Edmond  Woodgate,  John  Woodgate  my  kinsman,  Anne  Woodwarde. 
To  the  poore  folke  of  Estberholte  five  poundes.  I  ordaine  Stephen  Woodgate  my  sonne  and 
John  Goodwin  my  sonne  in  lawe  my  Executors,  and  the  aforesaide  Robert  Deraugh,  and  my 
verie  good  friende  Christofer  Borrowe  my  Sup  visors.  This  is  added  the  seavententh  of  Julie  1598. 
I  cleerelie  forgiue  unto  my  sonne  in  lawe  Henrie  Brighte  thirtie  two  poundes  which  he  resteth 
debter  to  me  in  my  booke,  and  also  five  poundes  which  I  stand  charged  to  paie  to  Thomas 
Walgrave  of  Buers  gent.,  and  tenne  poundes  which  I  spent  in  suite  aboute  the  recoverie  of  his 
wiefe’s  lande  at  Naylond :  altogether  (the)  somme  is  fortie  seauen  poundes,  which  whole  somme 
I  clearlie  discharge  the  above  saide  Henrie  Brighte  for  euer.  And  I  giue  live  poundes  to  be 
bestowed  at  the  discretion  of  my  Executors  for  the  placeing  of  poore  children. 

Probatum  vicesimo  tertio  die  Nouembris  1598,  juramento  procuratoris  Stephani  Woodgate 
filij  dicti  defuncti.  Reservata  ptate  Johanni  Goodwin  alteri  executori  cum  venerit  earn  petitur. 

P.C.C.  90  Lewyn. 

Benjamin  Woodgate  of  East  Bergholt,  the  son  of  the  testator,  in  his  will  (Arch.  Sulf.) 
23  July  1603,  names  Stephen  Woodgate  his  brother,  his  sister  Mary  Bright’s  children,  and  his 
brother  in  law  Henry  Bright. 

In  the  Sentence  (P.C.C.  72  Skinner),  dated  20  June  1627,  confirming  the  will  of  Daniel 
Woodgate,  another  of  the  testator’s  sons,  Mary  Cole  als  Woodgate,  and  Hannah  Wragge  als 
Woodgate  are  described  as  his  natural  and  legitimate  sisters.  (Henry  Bright  was  dead  and  Mary 
(Woodgate)  his  widow  had  remarried  William  Cole.)  See  the  will  of  Thomas  Bright  1618,  Henry 
Bright’s  brother,  Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  i,  316. 

The  Proceedings  in  Chaplyn  c  Woodgate  (Proctor’s  Act  Book,  1627)  mention,  amongst 
others,  John  Chaplyn  the  husband  of  Sara  Chaplyn  als  Woodgate,  Sava  Chaplyn  als  Woodgate 
the  relict  of  Daniel  Woodgate  deceased,  Hannah  Wragg  als  Woodgate  and  Mary  Cole  als 
Woodgate,  sisters  of  said  Daniel,  and  William  Cole,  the  husband  of  Mary  Cole  als  Woodgate. 


Cljancm)  fJromDhtjjs,  Southgate  c.  ffiooilkrin,  1599. 

Sheweth  yoT  Orator  Stephen  Woodgate,  of  Estbergholt  co.  Suff.  clothier  that  Stephen 
Woodgate  ffather  of  yor  Orator  was  seased  of  one  messuage  and  land  in  Estbergholte  and  did 
marry  one  Kattryn  Whiter  widow  and  made  a  ffeoffament  of  said  messuage  to  the  vse  of  the 
sayd  Stephen  Woodgate  the  ffather  and  Kateryn  his  wife  and  to  the  heyres  of  the  sayd  Stephen 
for  ever.  Said  Stephen  and  Kateryn  had  issue  Elizabeth,  Kateryn  and  Ane.  Elizabeth  maryed 
John  Goodwyn ;  Kateryn  maryed  Edward  Clarke  and  Ane  maried  John  How.  Stephen  the  ffather 
gave  good  sumes  of  money  in  advancement  of  said  maryages.  Afterwards  Stephen  the  ffather 

dyd  mary  one  Mary  Derehaw  and  made  a  ffeoffment  of  said  messuage  and  land  to  the  vse  of 

the  said  Stephen  and  the  said  Mary  and  the  heyres  males  of  the  body  of  sayd  Mary,  and  for 
want  of  such  issue  male  to  the  right  heyres  of  the  said  Stephen  for  ever.  Sithens  Elizabeth 
Goodwyn  and  Kateryn  Clarke  are  dead  havyng  issues  of  theare  bodies  begotten.  Stephen 

Woodgate  the  ffather  and  Mary  his  second  wyfe  had  issues  male  Stephen,  Thomas,  Beniamyn, 

Daniell  and  John ;  and  afterwards  Mary  the  second  wyfe  likewise  died,  and  Stephen  lived  many 


140 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


yeres  vnmaryed  and  died  abowte  one  yere  and  halfe  last  past.  By  his  will  he  did  devise  the 
messuage  and  land  to  yor  Orator  and  made  yor  Orator  and  John  Goodwyn  executors.  He  did 
also  devise  to  John  Woodgate  his  yonger  sune  thre  hundred  powndes  at  his  age  of  xxi  yeres. 
Yor  Orator  being  but  yonge  and  vnexperyenced  did  seale  an  obligacon  in  the  latin  tunge  to  save 
Goodwyn  harmles  for  the  execution  of  sayd  will.  But  so  it  is  that  Goodwyn,  Edward  Clarke 
and  Ane  How,  widow,  having  gotten  the  evidences,  have  combyned  together  and  contryved  secret 
conveyances  of  sayd  Messuage. 

The  Answere  of  John  Goodwin.  Steven  Woodegate,  Complayhnt’s  ffather,  was  greatlie 
advanced  by  Katherine  Whiter,  widdowe,  his  wife,  having  by  her  fifty  poundes  by  yeare  in 
lande  and  one  thowsand  poundes  in  goodes  and  did  in  consideracon  of  saide  marriage  enfeoffe 
(her)  in  said  messuage.  Elizabeth  (their)  eldest  daughter  married  this  Defendant.  Stephen  her 
ffather  made  great  promises  for  her  advancement.  Not  longe  before  his  deathe  (he)  tolde  this 

defend*  that  he  reposed  his  wholle  trust  and  confidence  in  him  about  the  execution  of  his  will. 

He  saide  “  Sonne  Goodwine  I  woulde  have  the  to  take  vppon  the  my  wholle  estate  and  to  see 
my  children  paide  there  legacies,”  alledgeinge  that  he  feared  that  if  his  estate  should  come  into 
complaynhts’  handes  his  other  children  shoulde  verie  slenderlie  be  paid  there  porcons  :  Complaynht 
kept  all  the  goodes.  As  sone  as  Compl*  shall  satisfie  said  legacie  of  three  hundred  poundes 
vnto  his  brother  John  Woodegate,  Defend*  is  readie  to  become  bounden  for  the  repaym*  of  the 
same.  Defend*  is  verylie  pswaded  that  Compl*  can  reade  the  condicon  (being  well)  vpp  in 
learninge.  Defend*  hath  no  evidences  concerninge  said  messuage.  If  Steven  Woodgate,  complaynnt’s 
brother,  sonne  to  Steven  Woodgate  deceased  by  his  ffirste  wife,  since  gone  beyond  the  seas, 
should  come  home  againe,  he  should  be  compelled  to  buye  said  messuage  of  his  said  brother,  &c. 

Q.  Eliz:  B.  &  A.  WW.  21.  55. 

Katherine  Whiter,  widow,  the  first  wife  of  Stephen  Woodgate,  is  doubtless  identical  with 
Katherine  Woodgate,  daughter  and  devisee  of  William  Hovell  a  Is  Smyth  of  Haughley,  1582,  who 
refers  to  her  children  and  names  Stephen  Woodgate  of  Eastbergholt  in  his  will  (Suffolk  Manorial 

Families,  vol.  ii,  26).  She  was  sister  therefore  to  William  Hovell,  Esq.,  of  Hillington.  Mary 

Derehaugh,  Stephen  Woodgate’s  second  wife,  was  equally  well  connected.  She  was  daughter  of 
Thomas  Derehaugh  of  Badingham,  and  sister  of  John  Derehaugh  and  of  Julian  the  wife  of  John 
Barker  ais  Chapman  of  Sibton ;  and  Robert  Derehaugh  of  Gray’s  Inn  and  Edmond  Barker  of 
Sibton,  gentleman,  named  in  her  husband’s  will,  were  her  near  kinsmen. 


Will  of  Jltargtm't  JSrigljt,  1599. 

The  eighte  and  twentethe  daie  of  November,  1599,  I  Margarett  Bright  of  London,  widowe, 
doe  make  and  devise  this  my  last  will :  ffirste  and  principally  I  give  my  Sowle  vnto  Allmightie 
god  my  Creator  and  to  his  deare  sonne  Jhesus  Christe  my  Saviour  and  Redemer,  by  the  merritts 
of  whose  deathe  and  passion  I  assuredlie  hope  to  be  made  ptaker  of  his  most  glorious  kingdome 
of  heaven.  I  give  vnto  Robert  Bright,  Honrie  Bright  and  Jasper  Bright  my  sonnes,  and  to 
Anne  Reade,  Katheren  Barker,  Joan  Houghton  and  Suzan  Barker  my  daughters,  to  everie  of 
them  one  hundred  pounds  a  peece.  To  everie  of  the  children  of  my  sonne  Thomas  Bright  at 
theire  severall  ages  of  twentie  and  one  yeares.  To  everie  of  the  children  of  my  sonnes  Robert 


BRIGHT  OF  ST.  EDMUNDSBURY. 


141 


Bright  Henrie  Bright  and  Jasper  Bright  and  of  my  said  daughters  ffortie  shillings  apeece.  To 
the  children  of  my  brothers  Raphe  Payton,  Adam  Payton,  and  of  my  brother  George  Peiton 
deceased,  and  of  my  sisters  Reyner,  Rose  Langham,  Sibill  Hancock  deceased  and  of  my  sister 
Willson.  To  my  twoe  sisters  Rose  Langham  and  Margerie  Willson  to  either  ffive  poundes  apeece. 
To  the  poore  of  the  pishes  of  St.  James  and  St.  Marie  in  the  Towne  of  Burie  St.  Edmondes 
and  in  the  Comon  Goale  of  Burie,  and  of  Tomson  in  Norfolk  and  of  Barton,  Naughton  and 
Risbie  in  Suffolk.  To  my  daughters  Ann  Reade  and  Katheren  Barker,  Beakers  of  silver.  To 
my  daughter  Joan  Houghton  a  gilte  Beaker  and  a  white  cupp  of  silver;  and  to  my  daughter 
Suzan  Barker  a  gilte  Beaker  and  a  cupp  of  silver.  Vnto  Marie  Dickeman,  nowe  the  maide 
servaunte  of  Robert  Bright  my  sonne,  one  gowne  of  black  clothe  of  the  price  of  tenne  shillinges 
the  yarde  and  twentie  shillinges  in  monie.  To  the  Clidren  [sic]  of  Christes  Hospitall  in  London 
at  the  daie  of  my  buriall,  in  monie  and  breade,  yf  they  shalbe  present,  the  some  of  three 
poundes.  To  everie  my  owne  sonnes  and  sonnes  in  lawe  a  cloke  of  black  clothe  of  the  price 
of  eightene  shillinges  the  yarde.  Fortie  shillinges  in  monie  or  breade  to  be  distributed  amongest 
the  poore  att  the  daie  of  my  buriall.  And  of  this  my  Testament  and  laste  will  I  make  my 
lovinge  sonnes  in  lawe  Bennett  Barker  and  Edmond  Houghton  Executors.  And  Overseers  I 
appointe  my  lovinge  sonne  Robert  Bright,  Salter.  And  I  do  publish  this  to  be  my  verie  true 
laste  will  and  testament,  and  have  caused  it  to  be  written  into  this  paper  booke  containinge 
tenn  sheetes  of  paper  all  written  vppon  one  side  and  to  everie  leafe  have  subscribed  my  name 
with  my  owne  hands. 

Probatum  vndecimo  die  Martij  1599  Juramento  procuratoris  Benedicti  Barker  et  Edmundi 
Houghton  executorum.  P.C.C.  16  Wallopp. 

Margaret  Bright  was  daughter  of  William  Payton  of  Risby  in  Suffolk.  Her  sister  Rose 
Payton  married  Simon  Langham  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  and  their  descendants  entered  pedigrees 
in  the  Visitations  of  London,  1634,  and  of  Sussex,  1662.  (S’ uffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  i, 

262,  375).  Her  sister  Margerie  Payton  married  Richard  Wilson,  Rector  of  Rattlesden.  Olorenshaw’s 
Notes  on'  Rattlesden,  p.  30).  Anne  Payton,  sole  daughter  and  heiress  of  her  brother  Thomas 
Payton,  became  the  wife  of  John  Hammond  of  Hawkedon,  whose  great  grandson,  John  Hammond 
of  Cresseners,  entered  his  pedigree  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664.  [Suffolk  Manorial  Families, 
vol.  i,  261).  See  Pedigree  of  Payton,  Hamond  and  Langham  in  Suffolk  Manorial  Families, 
vol.  i,  262. 


Mill  of  Jranris  Sarbr,  1605. 

The  xviitb  daie  of  Aprill  1603  I  Eraunces  Barker,  Citizen  and  vintener  of  London  do 
make  this  my  phte  testament  in  manner  and  forme  followinge.  My  bodie  I  will  to  the  earth 
to  be  decentlie  buried  in  the  church  of  Sainte  Marie  Atthill  nere  vnto  my  first  wife  Katherine 
Barker.  She  doth  lie  in  the  Sowth  syde  of  the  saide  church  before  the  Lady  Buckle’s  pew 
dore :  yf  not  there  then  in  the  Middle  Isle  nere  my  ffather  John  Barker  and  Elizabeth  Barker 
my  second  wife’s  daughter.  I  give  vnto  my  sister  Fraunces  Smithe  one  hundred  poundes :  to 
my  brothe1'  Smithe  and  my  sister  thirtie  shillinges  a  peece  to  make  either  of  them  a  Ringe. 


142 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Vnto  my  aunt  Marie  Saundersonne  one  hundred  poundes  and  to  William  Saundei’sonne  her  sonne 
Ifortie  poundes.  Vnto  my  aunte  Bruty  and  her  husband  and  her  two  daughters.  Vnto  Henrie 
Thorpe  and  to  Michaell  Thorpe  my  vncles.  Vnto  the  poore  of  Stockgouldinge  in  Buckingham- 
shere  where  I  was  borne  tenn  poundes.  Vnto  the  poore  of  Potton  in  Bedfordsheire  where  my 
mother  was  borne  tenn  poundes.  Vnto  the  poore  of  Everton  in  Bedfordsheire  tenn  poundes — 
vnto  the  godliest  poore  that  enhabiteth  the  said  pishes.  Vnto  the  poore  of  Sainte  Marie  Atthill 
in  London  tenn  poundes,  and  of  Saint  Catherines  Coleman’s  tenn  poundes.  Vnto  Alee  Bailie 
my  sister  one  hundred  poundes.  To  William  Thorpe  sonne  of  Michaell  Thorpe  the  lease  of  the 
Saint  John’s  heade.  To  either  of  my  brother  in  lawe  Michaell  Teates  sonnes  Fraunces  and 
Thomas  one  hundred  pounde.  Thomas  Bailie  my  brother,  Mr  Raphe  Bailie  my  brother  in  lawe, 
Lionell  my  godson,  and  Anne  Bailie  the  daughter  of  John  Balie  of  Coventrie  deceased.  Vnto 
my  brother  Robert  Bright,  Edmond  Houghton  and  his  wife,  my  brother  Jasper  Bright  and  his 
wife  gownes  and  cloakes.  To  Robert  Reade  the  sonne  of  Thomas  Reade  ffyftie  pounde  when  he 
is  a  freeman  of  London.  To  the  poore  of  the  Poultrie  Counter,  of  Woodstreate  Counter,  the 
Woodstreate  Counter,  the  prisoners  in  Newgate,  the  poore  in  Ludgate  and  in  the  Kinge’s  Benche, 
to  each  tenn  pounds  and  to  the  poore  of  the  White  Lyon  and  the  Marshallsey  to  each  ffive 
pounde.  My  kinseman  Mr  Richard  Archedale,  my  aunt  Hubert  and  my  cosen  Robert  Thorpe. 
To  some  godlie  learned  man  that  shall  preach  at  my  ffunerall  ffortie  shillinges.  To  Fraunces 
Barker  my  godchilde,  the  sonne  of  Bennett  Barker  tenn  pounde.  To  my  godchildren  Fraunces 
Houghton  and  Fraunces  Benne  the  sonne  of  John  Benne.  To  either  of  my  brothers  in  lawe  in 

Burie  a  cloake  and  to  their  wives  a  gowne.  To  my  brother  Reade  ffyftie  pounde.  My  kinsewoman 

Elizabeth  Holliwell  dwellinge  in  Sudburie  and  her  sister  Marie  Swayne  dwellinge  in  Bysshoppe’s 
Starford.  To  the  poore  of  Christe’s  Hospitall  tenne  poundes  in  monie  and  to  everie  of  the 
Children  a  penny  loafe  that  shall  accompanie  my  Corpes.  To  everie  of  the  prechers  that  shall 
come  from  Oxford  or  Cambridge  to  preach  at  Pawles  Crosse  for  the  space  of  two  yeares  tenn 
shillinges  a  peece  towerdes  their  chardges  to  be  pntlie  paide  them  vppon  demaund  made  by  them, 
And  my  will  is  that  the  Byshoppes  men  or  some  other  whome  it  may  concerne  be  given  to 
vnderstand  of  this  my  gifte  to  the  end  that  the  Preachers  may  knowe  of  yt,  and  so  to  aske  it 

of  my  execu?.  To  the  marriage  of  fforty  poore  maidens  fortie  poundes.  To  ffiftie  poore  men,  to 

either  of  them  a  black  gowne  worth  twentie  six  shillinges  eight  pence,  to  accompanie  my  Corpes 
to  church,  and  fyve  shillinges  a  peece  in  monie  to  be  paide  them  assone  as  they  shall  come 
from  church.  To  the  Companie  of  Vinteners  thirtie  ounces  of  gilt  plate  to  make  them  a  standing 
Cupp  and  my  name  to  be  sett  on  it  and  yt  to  remaine  in  the  hall.  To  George  Langham 
brother  of  John  Langham  twentie  pound.  Vnto  Jesper  Bright  one  hundred  poundes.  Vnto  my 
daughter  Susanne  Barker  my  landes  in  Bedwell  Parke,  my  messuage  called  the  Rose  at  Newington, 
sometime  vsed  as  an  Inne,  my  two  messuages  on  the  north  east  side  of  the  said  Rose,  ffower 
hundred  pounde  in  mony  and  my  picture.  Vnto  the  childe  conceaved  in  my  wives  wombe  one 
thousande  pounde.  My  will  is  that  my  wife  have  her  thirdes  and  do  make  her  and  my  daughter 
Suzan  my  executors,  and  my  brothers  Robert  Bright,  Thomas  Baile  and  Edmond  Houghton  to 
see  this  will  pformed.  For  their  paines  I  give  them  ether  a  silver  cup  of  twelve  ounces.  To 
the  poore  of  Wolledge  in  Kente  tenn  pounde,  and  towerdes  the  makinge  of  a  well  in  the  weste 
ende  of  the  Towne  over  againste  my  dore  fower  poundes ;  and  towerdes  the  makinge  of  a  new 
paire  of  stares  at  the  water  side  ffower  pounde.  Probatum  vicesimo  quinto  die  Junij  1603 
Juramento  procuris  Suzanne  re  Ice  et  executricis.  Reservata  potestate  Suzanne  Barker  filie  <kc. 


P.C.C.  30  Bolein 


BRIGHT  OF  ST.  EDMUNDSBURY 


143 


Administration  of  |asprr  Srigljt,  1609. 

April,  1609.  Quinto  die  emanavit  comissio  Joanne  Bright  relicte  Jasperi  Bright,  nup 
pochie  See  Marie  Abchurch  civitis  London  def.  hent3  <kc.  Ad  adraiStranct  bona  jura  et  credita 
dci  def.  de  bene  <fcc.  iurat. 

Admon  Act  Book,  P.C.C.  1605-10,  fo.  151 

In  1613  Joan  Bright  of  London,  widow  of  Jasper  Bright  late  of  London,  Salter,  sued 
John  Langham,  citizen  and  Leatherseller  of  London,  evidently  his  cousin  of  that  name  (see 
Pedigrees  of  Langham,  vol.  i,  pp  262,  376),  and  Edmund  Houghton,  citizen  and  draper  of 
London,  probably  her  brother  in  law  (see  Pedigree,  Bright  of  Talmach  Hall),  whom  she  had 
appointed  her  attorneys  to  assist  her  in  the  administration  of  the  estate.  She  charges  them  with 
misappropriating  monies.  This  seems  to  settle  the  question  as  to  whether  Jasper  Bright  the 
salter  and  his  namesake,  Margaret  Bright’s  son,  were  one  and  the  same.  Chancery  Bills  and 
Answers,  James  I,  38,  J+S-  Bright  contra  Ilo'ngliton. 

Thomas  Bright,  the  son  of  Jasper  Bright,  was  a  devisee  in  the  will  of  his  uncle  Robert 
Bright,  Esq.,  of  Pakenham,  in  1630,  an  abstract  of  which  is  given  on  the  next  page. 


Mill  of  Hoi mt  Houghton,  1623. 

In  the  name  of  God  to  Wliome  bee  all  glory  honore  and  praise  now  and  for  ever,  Amen. 
I  Roberte  Houghton,  Knight,  one  of  the  Kinges  Maties  Justices  of  the  pleas  before  his  Highnes 
to  bee  holden,  doe  make  this  my  last  will.  I  commend  my  soule  vnto  Almightie  god,  faithfullie 
beleiving  in  Jesus  Christ  my  savioure ;  my  bodie  to  bee  buried  without  funerall  pompe.  I  will 
that  Marie  my  loving  and  beloved  wife  shall  enjoye  my  howse  in  Norwich,  wherein  I  now  dwell, 
with  the  gardens  belonging  and  the  garden  or  orchard  neere  Jack’s  pitt  in  Norwch.  Likewise  I 
will  that  the  said  Marie  shall  haue  my  Mannor  of  Lessey  in  Suffolk.  And  I  will  that  after  her 
decease  Frances  Houghton  my  eldest  sonne  shall  haue  my  said  Mannor  and  the  premisses  in 
Norwich.  I  will  that  Frances  my  sonne  and  Hellen  his  wife  shall  haue  my  Mannors  of  Threxton 
Hemnalls  Farthinges  and  Curlewes  and  Pentsthorpe  in  the  Countie  of  Norff.  To  my  sonne  John 
Houghton  one  hundred  and  fiftie  poundes.  To  the  said  Mary  my  wife  (certain  leases),  one 
hundred  poundes,  all  her  Jewells  and  linnen  which  shee  had  of  the  guift  of  her  good  mother, 
and  my  Carpet  of  greene  cloth  vpon  which  shipes  are  wrought.  To  my  sonne  Frances  my  bason 
and  Ewer  of  silver  parcell  guilte,  my  two  guilte  Tankerdes,  and  the  greate  broade  Cupp  or 
boll ;  and  to  my  wife  my  other  silver  basons  and  my  Skinking  pott  and  the  residue  of  all  my 
plate.  To  my  said  wife  two  hundred  thirtie  and  three  poundes  six  shillinges  and  eight  pence 
over  and  besides  the  before  menconed  one  hundred  poundes.  To  my  two  daughters  Elisabeth 
Bright  the  wife  of  Roberte  Bright,  gent.,  and  to  Mary  Catlin  the  wife  of  Richard  Catlin,  gent., 
to  eache  of  them  fiue  poundes  to  bee  bestowed  on  peeces  of  plate — a  small  remembrance  in 
regard  of  the  love  I  beare  them.  To  Hellen  the  wife  of  my  sonne  Frances  and  Lidea  the  wife 
of  my  sonne  John.  To  my  grandchildren  Roberte  Houghton,  Flizabeth  Houghton  and  Marie 
Houghton  children  of  my  sonne  John  Houghton  and  to  my  grandchildren  Thomas  and  Mary 
Catlyn.  To  the  poore  within  the  parishe  of  Ste  Stephen  in  Norwich  fiue  poundes.  The  residue 


144 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


absolutelie  to  my  sonne  Frances  Houghton  whom  I  make  my  sole  executor.  This  fouretenth  daye 
of  Januarie,  1623.  Probatum  vicesimo  tertio  die  Martij  1623  Juramento  Francisci  Houghton  filij 
dicti  defuncti  et  executoris.  P.C.C.  28  Byrde. 

The  marriages  of  Edmund,  the  brother  of  Sir  Robert  Houghton,  to  Joan  Bright,  and  of 
Elizabeth  the  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Houghton  to  Robert  Bright  are  entered  in  the  Houghton 
pedigree  compiled  by  Norris,  the  well  known  Norfolk  genealogist,  a  copy  of  which  will  be  found 
in  the  Davy  MSS.  Mus.  Brit.  (Davy’s  Suffolk  Families,  Houghton). 


.Snttnice  Confirming  Kntmttorg  of  Sljontas  IB  right,  1628. 

Senten :  Condemnat  in  negocio  Computi  bonorum  Tho :  Bright :  Curife  Prerogat  Cant : 
Auditis  visis — et  mature  discussis  per  nos  Henricum  Marten  militum,  Curiae  Prerogat  Cant 
Magrum  ....  Comissarium  Itime  constitutum  meritis  et  circumstantis  cuiusdam  negocii  exhibicois 
Inventarij  et  reddicois  Computi  bonorum  Thomae  Bright  nuper  de  Bury  sci  Edmundi  defunct 
quod  coram  nobis  in  iudicio  inter  Margaretam  Bright  als  Guehste  filiam  naturalem  et  itimam 
dicti  defunct  ex  vna  (parte)  et  Edmundum  Brighte  et  Thomasine  Bright  als  Meade  proles  et 

administratores  dicti  defuncti  ex  altera  (parte) . pronunciamus  et  declaramus  pfatos 

Edmundum  Brighte  et  Thomazinam  Brighte  als  Meade  in  expensis  Itimis  ex  parte  prenominatoe 
Margaretse  Brighte  als  Guehste  in  hoc  nego0  factis  et  faciendis  sue  parti  sure  solvend 
condemnand . 

Lecta  lata  et  promulgata  fuit  haec  sententia  deffinitiva  vltima  Sessione  Termini  Trinitatis 
die  Sabbati  quinto  die  Julij,  1628,  in  loco  Cons  infra  eccliam  Cathedralem  divi  Pauli  London,  Jic. 

P.C.C.  73  Barrington. 


Mill  of  Kotef  bright,  1650 

I  Robert  Bright  at  this  fisent  time  in  bodely  health  and  in  sound  and  jifect  memory 
doe  ordaine  and  declare  this  to  be  my  last  will.  I  comitt  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  god  my 
mersifull  father,  trusting  to  the  merits  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  pardon  of  my  sinnes.  I  hope  to 
be  an  inheritor  of  glory  after  this  life  ended.  Amen. 

I  give  to  my  sonne  Thomas  the  reversion  of  that  measuage  called  Battelies.  When  I 
married  in  the  ninteenth  yeare  of  the  Reigne  of  King  Jeames  I  was  bound  in  two  thousand 
pond  bond  to  give  (it  him)  by  will.  Vnto  my  sonne  William  the  fearme  called  Barton  place 
and  lands  I  hould  in  Barton  and  Rougham.  Unto  my  sonne  Henry  my  grownds  and  houses  in 
Cockfeild,  the  lands  in  Tostock  or  Norton  I  purchased  of  Mr  John  Nune,  the  free  and  copie 
hould  lands  I  purchased  of  the  Cobbel,  my  new  built  house  in  Pakenham,  and  all  the  lands, 
mesuages  and  houses  that  was  latelie  in  the  tenure  of  John  Manister :  all  which  lands  and 
tenements  I  have  conveyed  unto  Edmond  Millesone  and  Bennet  Barker  for  the  uses  of  my  two 
sonnes  William  and  Henry  by  a  Tripertite  Indenture  bearing  date  the  first  day  of  March,  1621  : 
as  allsoe  for  the  newe  built  house  and  grownes  in  Pakenham  given  to  my  sonne  Henry  by  an 
Indenture  wheare  in  I  have  feoffed  (them)  unto  John  Houghton  and  I  Jennet  Barker  to  the  uses 
there  in  expressed.  I  further  give  to  my  sonne  Henry  that  tenement  wherein  Thomas  Wiseman 


BRIGHT  OF  ST.  EDMUNDSBURY. 


145 


now  dwelleth,  upon  Condishone  that  he  paye  unto  Thomas  Bright  the  sonne  of  Edmond  Bright 
now  living  in  Bury  twenty  shillinges  a  yeare.  I  allsoe  give  unto  Thomas  Read  now  living  in 
Bury  twenty  shillinges  a  yeare  during  his  naturall  life.  I  give  to  my  sonne  Thomas  the  tenement 
wth  the  grownes  belonging,  now  in  the  occupation  of  one  Macro,  lying  in  Rougham  upon 
Condishion  that  the  bonds  that  I  sealed,  upon  mariadge  of  my  eldest  sonne,  to  Mr  Mileson  now 
deceased  be  delivered  up,  and  upon  receate  of  these  bonds  my  sonne  Henry  shall  deliver  up  his 
right  of  the  foresaid  tenement  unto  my  sonne  Thomas.  Unto  my  sonne  Thomas  my  great  bell. 
Unto  my  sonne  Henry  the  hangings  in  the  dyning  chamber,  the  hanggings  in  the  Parlor 
chamber  and  the  hanggings  in  the  Kitching  chamber  with  the  paynted  cloth  over  the  Kitching 
chamber,  as  allsoe  three  paynted  beadsteads  standing  in  three  severall  roomes.  1  further  give  to 
my  sonne  Henry  my  great  booke  called  Speede’s  Cronicles.  I  likewise  give  him  my  great  bruing 
brase  with  the  beare  vessells  and  bruing  vessells  there  unto  belonging  I  give  and  bequeath 
unto  my  sister  the  Lady  Carew,  my  sister  Barker  and  my  sister  Houghton  to  every  of  them 
five  ponds.  To  Thomas  Bright  the  sonne  of  Jasper  Bright  my  brother  tenn  poundes.  I  give  to 
Thurston  three  pounds,  to  Pakenham  three  pounds,  to  Rougham  thirty  three  shillings  fourepence, 
to  Barton  thirty-three  shillings  fourepence,  to  Tostock,  Norton  and  Stowlangtoft  twenty  six 
shillings  eight  pence  (each),  and  to  Ixworth  three  pownds,  to  be  given  by  the  Minister,  church¬ 
wardens  and  overseers  to  the  poorest  people  that  hath  most  need.  I  charge  my  Executor  theire 
be  not  doale  given  at  all  to  anie  one  that  cometh  either  to  the  house  or  to  the  church,  neither 
will  I  have  anie  gangling  of  bells,  but  carry  my  body  desently  to  the  grave,  and  that  there 
be  nothing  adoe  but  cakes  &  wine  an  beare.  I  give  to  Joane  Houghton  my  sister  y®  feather- 
bead  and  boulster  &  beadstead  that  is  belonging  to  the  bead  wch  she  lieth  upon.  Charging  my 
sonnes  to  love  one  another  and  that  theire  be  no  unkindness  amongst  them  in  dividing  of  my 
goods,  and  that  my  sonnes  shall  drawe  Lotts  for  theire  parts.  Of  this  will  I  doe  apynt 
Mr  Cartwright,  Mr  Wright  <fc  Mr  Catling  to  be  overseers.  I  doe  make  and  apynt  my  sonne 
Henry  my  sole  Executor.  I  have  conformed  this  my  last  Will  with  my  hand  and  seale  the  first 
of  October  1630.  Proved  at  Norwich  1  March  1630.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 

The  lengthy  will,  of  which  this  is  an  abstract,  is  given  verbatim  in  the  “  Brights  of  Suffolk, 
England,”  already  referred  to  (p.  136). 


Hill  of  J^xxsanmx  Jfxx'stoit,  1641. 

Susanna  Freeston  of  Mendham  in  ye  Countye  of  Norff,  widdowe  of  Richard  Freston,  Esq., 
the  third  day  of  June  1641.  Vnto  Richard  Freeston  my  sonne  all  my  lands  in  Alltoft,  Warm- 
feild  &  Normanton  in  y6  County  of  Yorke.  Vnto  Elizabeth  Freeston  my  daughter,  my  messuages, 
tenements,  orchards,  &c.,  in  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  and  my  Cisterne  of  lead  vsed  wth  my  mault 
house.  Provided  always  that  if  both  my  sonne  and  my  daughter  shall  depart  this  life  before 
their  severall  ages  of  one  and  twenty  yeares  without  yssue  of  their  bodies,  Then  my  will  is 
that  Borowdale  Milleson,  gent.,  my  brother  and  his  heyres  shall  have  th’one  moietie  of  said 
lands  in  Yorke  and  Suff.,  and  that  Borrowdale  Bright,  Elizabeth  Bright  and  Agatha  Bright,  the 
sonne  and  daughters  of  Agatha  Bright  my  sister  decd,  late  wife  of  Thomas  Bright,  Esq.,  shall 
have  th’other  moyetie.  Moneys  to  be  raised  for  the  educacon  of  Richard  my  sonne  and  the 
marriage  porcon  of  Elizabeth  my  daughter.  Vnto  Susanna  Mileson  my  god  daughter,  daughter  of 
the  said  Borrowdale  Mileson  my  brother,  ten  pounds.  Vnto  Borrowdale  Bright,  Elizabeth  Bright 

U 


146 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


and  Agatha  Bright,  being  my  god  children,  to  every  of  them  a  piece  of  plate  of  five  pounds  a 
peece  price.  I  ordaine  the  said  Elizabeth  Freston  my  daughter  sole  executrix. 

Whereas,  by  my  last  will  I  have  bequeathed  part  of  the  goodes  which  late  were  Richard 

Freston’s  my  late  husband  and  which  he  intended  for  Richard  Freston  my  sonne  ;  I  as  executrix 
of  his  will  have  taken  a  reassurance  thereof  againe  vnto  my  selfe,  to  inable  me  to  dispose 
thereof  by  my  will,  in  liewe  of  divers  disbursements  of  greater  value,  which  I  have  disbursed 
for  the  said  Richard  my  sonne ;  yet  for  the  avoiding  of  differences  wch  may  arise  between  my 
sonne  and  my  daughter,  my  will  is  that  Richard  my  sonne  shall  not  be  discharged  of  his 
,  marriage  porcon,  graunted  vnto  me  by  the  Kinge’s  Maty  in  his  highnes  Courte  of  Wards,  vritill 
he  shall  haue  fully  released  vnto  Elizabeth  my  daughter  all  his  right  therein.  This  xxixth  day 
of  February  1643. 

I  the  said  Susanna  Freston  doe  now  give  vnto  my  loveing  frend  Tobias  Frere  of  Harleston, 
gent.,  together  with  Borrowdale  Mileson  my  brother  all  the  said  Mannors,  iic.,  of  Richard  my 
sonne,  together  wth  his  marriage  porcon  before  menconed,  all  wch  shalbe  disposed  by  them  as  in 
my  will  is  menconed.  This  postscript  to  be  annexed  as  a  Codicill  to  my  will  this  xxixth  day 
of  Februarie  1643.  Probatum  penultimo  die  Decembris,  1645,  Juramento  Elizabeths}  Freeston 
filise  dec  def,  et  executricis  in  testo  noiate.  P.C.C.  146  Rivers. 

Agatha  Mileson,  the  sister  of  the  testatrix,  married  Thomas  Bright,  Esq.,  of  Netherhall  in 

Pakenham.  Richard  Freston  the  son  made  his  will  in  1648,  and  died  without  issue.  Elizabeth 
Freston,  who  thus  became  sole  heiress  to  her  mother  and  her  brother,  married  first  Sir  Nicholas 
Bacon  of  Gillingham,  co.  Norfolk,  Baronet,  and  secondly  Sir  William  Godbold  of  Mendham, 
Knight,  and  the  estates,  conditionally  bequeathed  to  Borrowdale  Bright,  Elizabeth  Bright  and 
Agatha  Bright,  passed  to  her  legal  heirs. 


SEill  cf  Sir  jEtxdjoias  ffiardo,  rirra  1644* 

The  Remembrance  of  the  shortness,  fraylety  and  corruptible  estate  of  man’s  lyfe,  not 
knowing  how  long  it  may  please  God  to  continew  the  same,  and  considering  allso  what  troubles, 
suits  and  chardges  in  law,  and  what  great  vnkindnes  doth  daylie  happen,  even  amongst  the 
neerest  in  blood,  for  the  not  making  of  men’s  wills,  Theise  and  suchlyke  considerations  have 
moved  me  S'  Nicholas  Carew  allias  Throckmorton  of  Bedington  in  the  countie  of  Surry,  Knight, 
to  make  my  humble  and  heartie  prayers  unto  allmightie  God,  that  it  may  please  him  to  grant 
me  the  assistance  of  his  gratious  directions,  that  I  may  advisedly  sett  in  order  those  worldly 
goods  which  it  hath  pleased  (him)  to  bestowe  vpon  me.  Vnto  Sr  Francys  Carew,  Knight  of 
the  bathe  and  to  his  heires  malles  lawfully  begotten  (I  give]  the  Mannor  of  Walton,  with  the 
windemill  and  howse  to  it,  and  the  howse  called  Newbarnes,  with  all  the  tithe  of  the  parishe 
of  Mitcham :  And  for  wante  of  such  issue,  Then  to  my  seconde  sonne  Nicholas  Carew  and  the 
heirres  malles  of  his  bodie :  And  for  want  of  such,  to  my  thirde  sonne  Geordge  Carew  and  the 
heirres  males  of  his  bodie :  And  for  want  of  such,  Then  to  my  fourthe  sonne  Edmund  Carew 
and  to  the  heirres  males  of  his  bodie :  And  for  wante  of  such  issue  male,  then  to  my  fifte 
sonne  Oliphe  Carew :  And  for  wante  of  such,  Then  to  my  heirres  for  ever.  By  severall  fines 
and  Indentures  I  have  levied  vnto  Sr  Thomas  Grymes,  Knight  and  Robert  Wolrich,  Esqr,  of  the 
Mannors  of  Biggin  and  Tamworth  in  Mitcham,  Tooting,  and  Martin  in  the  County  of  Surry, 
the  Rectorie  of  Cowdham  in  the  Countie  of  Kent,  and  fortie  acres  of  pasture  in  East  Barnet 


BRIGHT  OF  ST.  EDMUNDSBURY. 


147 


in  the  Countie  of  Hertford.  I  doe  hereby  declare  that  I  haue  not  not  changed  or  made  void 
anie  of  the  vses  or  estates  appointed  by  the  Indentures  aforesaid.  And  my  will  is  that  all 
manner  of  writings  concerning  these  mannors  (fee.  be  deliuered  to  those  my  sonnes  to  whom  the 
said  premises  are  conveyed.  And  for  that  my  eldest  sonne  Sr  francys  Carew,  Knight  of  the 
bathe,  hath  runne  him  selfe  farre  in  debte  and  fearing  if  I  shoulde  make  him  my  executor  my 
hole  estate  would  be  dissipated,  I  make  and  ordaine  my  welbeloued  brothor  in  law  Sr  Thomas 
Grymes  of  Peckham  my  sole  executor  And  I  bequeath  (him)  forty  poundes.  I  geiue  the 
remainder  of  my  goods  to  my  grandchild  Nicholas  Carew,  sonne  of  Sr  francys  Carew,  at  the 
age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares. 

And  concerning  my  onely  daughter  Susanna  Carew  which  I  had  by  my  last  wife. 
According  to  a  covenant  in  an  Indenture  tripartite  made  the  13th  day  of  August,  1616, 
Betweene  my  selfe  of  the  first  part,  Susanna  Butler,  widdow,  of  the  second  parte,  and  Thomas 
Trevor  of  the  Inner  Temple  London  esquire  with  others  on  the  third  part,  That  I  should  pay 
vnto  my  said  daughter  at  the  day  of  her  maryage  or  her  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares,  which 
of  them  shall  first  happen,  the  sume  of  three  thousand  pounds  for  her  portion :  Now  my  will 
is  that  it  be  accordingly  payed  vnto  her.  And  (I)  do  admonish  her  in  a  fatherly  care  that 
she  be  advised  and  guided  by  my  executor  and  overseers,  both  concerning  the  disposing  of  her 
said  portion  and  her  marriage.  And  my  will  is  that  vntill  the  day  of  her  marriage  or  her 
age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares  there  be  allowed  vnto  her  yearely  for  her  maintenance  the 
summe  of  sixe  score  poundes.  And  further  my  will  is  that  my  said  daughter  and  Elizabeth 
Butler  her  sister  shall  have  and  enioy  the  lodging  chamber  where  they  vsually  lye,  and  the 
lodging  and  diett  of  their  servants,  during  the  space  of  sixe  months  next  after  my  decease,  if 
my  said  daughter  shall  so  longe  like  to  liue  there. 

Allso  I  geiue  vnto  my  youngest  sonne  Oliphe  Carew  fiue  hundred  pounds  for  him  to 
imploye  in  his  trading.  Allso  I  geiue  vnto  my  grandchilde  Rebecca  Carew,  eldest  daughter  of 
my  eldest  sonne  Sr  francys  Carew  one  hundred  pounds  at  her  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares 
or  the  day  of  her  mariadge.  Allso  I  geiue  vnto  Susanna  Carew,  Elizabeth  Carew  and  Phillip 
Carew,  the  second,  third  and  fourth  daughters  of  my  saide  eldest  sonne,  to  (every)  of  them 
one  hundred  pounds  Allso  I  geiue  to  the  parishe  Church  of  Bedington  to  be  vsed  one  the 
communion  table  one  siluer  flagon  with  my  armes  graven  vpon  it.  And  I  geiue  to  the  poore 
of  Bedington  fiue  pounds :  and  to  all  my  menseruants  &  maydseruants  which  are  with  me  at 
the  tyme  of  my  death  one  hole  yeares  wages  over  and  aboue  what  is  dew  vnto  them.  And  I 
doe  desyre  my  louinge  frendes  Sr  Thomas  Trevor,  Knight,  one  of  the  Barons  of  the  Exchequer 
and  Robert  Wolrich  of  Greies  I :  in  the  Countie  of  Middlesex  esquire  and  Edward  Harris  of 
the  Inner  Temple,  London,  esquire  to  be  the  supervisors. 

The  last  sheet  of  this  imperfect  transcript  (which  is  taken  from  the  Carew  Papers,  Add. 
MS.  29,605,  fol.  29b — 39b)  is  endorsed  “Copy  of  part  of  the  Will  of  Sr  N8  Carew  als 
Throckmorton.”  There  is  no  indication  of  date  or  witnesses. 

By  her  marriage  with  Sir  Nicholas  Carew,  Susan  Bright,  the  aunt  of  Henry  Bright,  the 
New  England  emigrant,  became  sister  in  law  to  Sir  Walter  Raleigh.  The  monument  which 
Susanna  Carew,  described  in  the  will  as  her  only  daughter,  placed  to  her  memory  in  Bedington 
church,  has  the  following  inscription : — 

“To  the  memory  of  my  deare  mother,  the  Lady  Carew,  late  wife  of  Sir  Nicholas  Carew 
of  Bedington,  Whose  vertuous  Life  doth  memory  deserue :  who  taught  her  children  Heauen’s 
great  God  to  serue.  She  departed  this  life  the  xith  day  of  December  in  the  yeare  1633.” 

TJ2 


148 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES, 


•prtrigrrrs,  from  tljr  J^uffolft  Visitation,  1664. 


Thomas  Bright  of  Bury  8t.=j=.  .  .  .  daughter  of 


Edmunds. 


Bet  on. 


John  Bright  of  Talmach  Hall=f=Martj  dau.  of  William  Style  of 


in  Little  Bricett. 


Hemington. 


William  Bright  of  Talmach  Hall, =rSarah,  dau.  of  Henry  North  of 


1664. 


Laxfield. 
Sarah. 


Robert  Bright  o/=p 

Netherhall. 


Thomas  Bright  of^f- Agatha  dau.  of  . 


Netherhall. 


Mileson. 


i - - - 

Thomas  Bright  of  Netherhall ,=p.  .  .  .  dau.  of  ..  .  Highton 
1664.  J  [Higham], 

Agatha. 


Bright  iktugrre  from  tljr  Canfcler 

Maria  Styles  (dau.  of)  Gulielmus  Styles  de  Gosbecke  gen’,  nupta  John  Bright  de  Tallemacli  hall  in 
Briset,  arm’,  et  post  eius  mortem  ....  North  filii  Dom’  North  de  Gattelage.  Harl.  MS.  6071,  p.  314. 

=r 

I - - - 1 - 1 - 1 - -| 

William  Bright.— Sarah  North  (dau.  of)  Henry  North  of  Laxfield,  Esq.,  John  Thomas  Elizabeth  (Bright),  married  to  Tho- 

Harl.  MS.  6071,  married  to  Wm  Bright,  son  of  John  Bright  of  Talle -  (Bright),  (Bright).  mas  Salter.  Harl.  MS.  6071,  p.  314. 
p.  314.  mach  hall  Esq.  Harl.  MS.  6071,  p.  501.  s.p.  =p 

i - * 

John  (Salter). 

Harl,  MS.  6071,  pp.  314,  501,  and  Tauner  MS.,  Lib.  Bodleian,  257. 


©jrrrrpt  from  Cfirogntorton  iprtngrrr, 

liar l .  1561. 


Sr  Nicholas  Throckmorton  of  Paul’s  Perry  in  Com’  North-^Anne  3.  sister  coheire  of  Sr  ffrancis  Carew  of  Bedington 
ampton,  Kn*  (son  of)  Sr  George  Throckmorton  Catherin  I  in  Com  Surrey  Knt :  ob.  1607,  s.p.  (and  dau.  of)  Sr  Nic- 
d.  of  Nicholas  Lord  Vaulx  of  Herou'den  lieire  to  her  holas  Carew,  Knt.  of  the  Garter,  beheded  12.  H.  8. 
mother. 


Susan  d.  of  .  .  .  Bright  of  St.  Edmund’s=rSr  Nicholas  Throckrnorton=rMary  d.  of  Sr  George 


bury  in  Com  Suffolk,  widow,  of 
Butler  of  London,  Marchant. 


Thomas  Susanna. 

dyed  an 

inffant. 


called  Carew  by  Reson  hee 
was  soe  adopted  :  now  1623. 


Moore  of  Lossley  in 
Com  Surrey,  Knt ■ 


Elizebeth  vx  Sr  Arther  Throgmorton  of 

Sr  Walter  Paul’s  Perry  in  Com’  North- 

Raleigh  Knt.  ampton  Knt.  1623. 


n - 

Anne,  ob.  s.p. 

Mary,  s.p. 


~r 

Elizebeth  vx  James 
Pointz  of  Okenden 
in  Com  Essex. 


1.  ff ranees 
Carew  20. 
yere  old. 


T1 


2.  Nicholas.  4.  Edmund. 


3.  George. 


5.  Olliff. 


Visitation  of  Surrey,  1623,  Harl.  MS.  1561,  fo.  251  b. 


BRIGHT  OF  ST.  EDMUNDSBURY. 


149 


Bright  of  Calmad)  $iaU. 


Thomas  Bright,  Alderman,  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s,  son  of  Walter=f=  Margaret,  da.  of  William  Payton  of  Risby,  co.  Suffolk, 
Bright  of  that  town,  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Botters  in  Thompson,  who  made  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  6  Sept.  1556  ;  sister  to 


co.  Norff.,  and  a  Suffolk  and  Essex  land  owner.  Will,  P.C.C.  53 
Spencer,  20  Aug.,  proved  25  Sept.  1587.  Inq.  p.m.  1587. 


Margaret,  mar.  Mr. 
Robert  Roodes,1587, 
sometime  of  Cran- 
brook,  co.  Kent.  Ad- 
mon.,  P.C.C.  Jan.  7 
1591-2,  to  Margaret 
Bright,  her  mother. 


Anne,  bapt.  at  St.  James’s 
ch..  Bury,  1562  ;  mar.  1583 
to  Thomas  Reade. 

Katherine,  bapt.  1572 ; 
inar.  Bennet  Barker,  Al¬ 
derman  of  Bury. 


Joan,  bap.  1573  ;  mar. 
Edmund  Houghton  of 
London,  brother  of 
Sir  Robert.  Norris. 

Seven  daughters  died 
in  infancy. 


Rose  Payton,  who  mar.  Simon  Langham  of  Bury. 
Her  Will,  P.C.C.  16  Wallop,  is  dated  12  Nov.  1589. 


Francis  Barker,  Citn.=j=Susan,  bapt.  1579; — SirNicholasCarew 


and  Vintner  of  Lon¬ 
don.  Will,  P.C.C.  40 
Bolein,  17  April,  pro¬ 
bate  25  June  1603 ; 
1st  husbd.,  by  whom 
a  daughter  ? 


MargaretKent,=fT.  Thomas  Bright,  Alder-y=.  .  .  .  da.  of 


1st  wife ;  mar. 
1577  at  St. 
James’s  Bury  ; 
bin-.  17  Feb. 
1589. 


Constance, 
bapt.  1579. 

Margaret,  bap. 
1586.  Was  this 
Margt.  Bright 
als.  Gueliste  ? 


man  of  Bury,  Lord  of  But¬ 
ters  Hall  Manor  in  Thomp¬ 
son  1629 ;  Grant  of  Arms 
1616,  Guillim.  Bur.  13 
July  1626  St.  Mary’s,  Bury; 
Inq.  p.m.  3  Car. 


Thoinasine, bapt. 1587, 
is  called  Thomasine 
Bright  als. Meadel628, 
in  Decree  confirming 
her  father’s  Will ;  wife 
of  Meade  of  London, 
mercht. 


Beton,  Bysshe. 
(Mary,  ?  3d  wife 
of  Thomas  Bright, 
Gent.,  was  bur.  at 
St.  Mary’s,  Bury, 
1625.) 


2.  Robert  Bright, Esq.,  of 
Barton  and  New  House 
in  Pakenham,  co.  Suff.; 
Lordof  N  etherhall  Manor 
in  Thurston.  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  1  Oct.  1630. 
See  Pedigree  A. 


mar.,2ndly, .  .  Butler 
of  London,  mercht., 
by  whom  a  da.,  Eliza¬ 
beth  Butler.  She  died 
11  Dec.  1633  ;  mon. 
in  Beddington  Ch„ 
/^Surrey. 


als. Throckmorton, 
Kt.,  3d  husb.;  mar. 
Susan  Bright  at  St. 
Mary,  Woolnorth, 
London,  14  Aug. 
1616, by  whom  a  da. 
Susanna  Carew. 


3.  Henry  Bright  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
Gent.,  bapt.  1560; 
died  1609.  Admon. 
P.C.C.  Dec.  1610.  He 
mar.MaryWoodgate. 
See  Pedigree  B. 


4.  Jasper  Bright,  Citizen 
and  Salter  of  London, 
bapt.  1567  ;  bur.  at  St. 
Mary  Abchurch,  Lon¬ 
don.  Admon.  P.C.C. 
April  1609  to  Joan  his 
relict ;  had  issue. 


Margaret,  bapt.  1594.  Anne,  bapt.  at  St.  James’ 
Was  this  Margaret  Ch.  1597;  mar.  at  Word- 
Bright  als.  Guehste  well,  Suff.,  1622,  John  Gib- 
named  in  the  Decree,  bon,  D.D.,  Rector  of  that 
1628,  confirming  her  parish,  by  whom  issue  a 
father’s  Will  p  son,  John  Gibbon. 


Thomas  Bright, 
bapt.  at  St.  James’ 
Bury,  1602  ;  of 
the  Middle  Tem¬ 
ple,  London,  1632 ; 
living  1658. 


Mary  Bright,  bapt. 
at  St.  James’  Ch., 
1605  :  s.p.  in  1658, 
when  Edmund 
Bright,  her  brother, 
made  his  Will. 


Walter  Bright,  son 
&  heir,  bapt.  1582. 
Admitted  to  Caius 
Coll.,  Cambr.,  April 
1599,  then  aged 
16 ;  died  s.p.  1624. 


John  Bright  of  Talmach  Hall,= 
gent.,  captain  in  the  Parlia¬ 
mentary  Army ;  bapt.  1593. 
Lord  of  Thompson  HallManor. 
Will,  P.C.C.  67  May,  14  Jan. 
1659.  Mont,  in  Great  Bricet 
Church.  Lands  in  Ireland. 


Mary,  da.  of  Wm.  Style, 
Esq.,  of  Hemingstone 
Gt., who  madeWill,  Arch. 
Suff.,  19  May  1645.  She 
re-nupt.  the  Hon.  John 
North,  son  of  Dudley, 
3d  Lord  North. 


Edmund  Bright  of  Mil-— Susan,  da.  of  Edward 
denhall,  co.  Suff.,  gent.;  Alston,  sister  &  devisee 


bapt.  1600;  mar.  1632; 
bur.  by  his  parents  in 
St.  Mary’s  Ch. yd.,  Bury. 
Will,  P.C.C.  1658, 9  Jan.; 
his  issue  dead. 


of  Joseph  Alston,  gt., 
who  made  Will, Cur.Ep. 
Norw., 1643,  who  names 
her  children;  mar.  1632 
atWoolpit,  10  Oct. 


- 1 

Thomas, 
b.  1595, 
d.  1601. 


William  Bright,  Esq.,: 
of  Talmach  Hall,  b. 
1626.  Will,  P.C.C. 
101  Poley  1706;  mar. 
Sarah  Gilson,  his  2d 
wife,  1704. 


:Sarah,  1st  wife,  da. 
of  Henry  North  of 
Laxfield,  son  of  Sir 
Henry  North  and 
grandson  of  Roger, 
2d  Lord  North. 


John  Bright  of 
Talmach  Hall, 
gent.;bapt.l631, 
died  1657,  bur. 
in  Great  Bricet 
Church. 


Mary,  da.  of  John=f  Thomas  Bright,  Alderman=Dorothy,  2d 


Revett,  Esq.,  of 
Brandeston,  co. 
Suffolk,  1st  wife, 
mar.  there  1660 ; 
bur.  there  9  April 
1666. 


of  Bury.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  wife,  died  3 
1709.  He  mar.  3d  Martha,  Dec.  1684. 
da.  of  John  Fiske,  Esq.,  at  M.I.  in  St. 
Rattlesden  1686 ;  she  died  Mary’s 
1703,  and  has  M.I.  in  Rat-  Churchyd., 
tlesden  Church.  Bury. 


Elizabeth,  mar. 
Thomas  Salter, 
son  and  heir  of 
Martin  Salter 
of  Battisford, 
co.  Suff.,  Esq. 


Sarah  Bright,  sole= 
da.  &  heiress;  bapt. 
at  Offton  Feb.  1 
165f .  By  her  mar. 
TalmachHall  went 
to  the  Dawtreys. 


Thomas  Dawtrey, 
Esq.,  of  More,  co. 
Sussex, &  Dodding- 
hurst  Place,  co. Es¬ 
sex  ;  High  Sheriff 
of  Essex,  1682. 


Mary  Bright,  bapt. 
at  Brandeston  1661 ; 
mar.  at  Nowton  1682, 
Samuel  Batteley ; 
M.P.  for  Bury  1710. 
He  died  1712  s.p. 


Alice  Bright,  bapt.  at 
Brandeston,  1666;  mar. 
John  Westhorp;  both 
living  in  1709.  He  be¬ 
came  sole  heir  to  his 
father-in-law’s  estates. 


John  Salter,  deviseel709 
of  his  uncle, Tho.  Bright. 

Thomas  Salter,  devisee 
of  hisuncle,  Tho.  Bright, 
1709. 


Edward  Salter  of  Bat¬ 
tisford,  Gent.,  died  24 
July  1724  ;  mar.  Mary 
.  .  .,  who  died  23  Feb. 
1707,  set.  35  ;  both  bur. 
at  Battisford.  =f= 

_ i 


William  Dawtrey,  Esq.,  grandson  and  de¬ 
visee  of  Wm.  Bright,  1706;  High  Sheriff 
of  Essex  1736  ;  ob.  s.p.  1758.  Estates  to 
nephew,  Richard  Luther. 


Sarah  Daw-=j=Edward 
trey,  heir 
to  her  bro¬ 
ther. 


Luther  of  Miles 
Manor  in  Kelvedon,  co. 
Essex,  Esq. ;  High  Sheriff 
of  Essex,  1701. 


.  .  .  Salter, =John  Lewis,  gent  He  died  7  Dec. 
daughter  &  1724,  aged  33,  and  was  buried  at 

heir.  Battisford. 


Richard  Luther,  Esq.,  of  Miles  in  Kelve-=f=Charlotte,  da.  of  Hugh  Chamberlain,  M.D., 


don ;  succeeded  to  the  estates  of  William 
Dawtrey,  his  uncle ;  died  28  Dec.  1767. 


of  Alderton  Hall,  co.  Suff.;  Court  Physician 
temp.  James  II  and  Queen  Anne. 


Rebecca  Luther,  named  1706  in  the 
Will  of  her  great  grandfather, 
William  Bright ;  then  under  age. 


John  Luther,  Esq.,  Lord  of  the  Manors  of  Miles  and  Talmach 
Hall;  M.P.  for  Essex,  1764;  m.  Lavinia  Bennett;  ob.  s.p.  1786. 


Charlotte  Luther,  sister  and  coheir;  m. 
Henry  Fane,  Esq.,  M.P.,  brother  to  the  Earl 
of  Westmoreland. 


Rebecca, sisterand  coheir, 
m.  John  Taylor,  Esq. 


150 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Qi.  Brtgljt  of  0rtljn1)all. 


Thomas  Bright,  Alderman  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds, =Margaret,  da.  of  Adam  Payton  of  Risby,  co.  Suffolk, 


Lord  of  Botter’shall  in  Thompson,  Norfolk. 
P.C.C.  53  Spencer,  20  Aug.  1587. 


Will, 


sister  to  Rose  Payton  who  mar.  Simon  Langham  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds.  Will  12  Nov.  1589. 


1.  Thomas  Bright  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  Lord  of  But¬ 
ter’s  Hall  Manor;  had 
Grant  of  Arms,  1616  ;  bur. 
at  St.  Mary’s,  Bury,  13 
July  1626 ;  Inq.  p.m.  3  Car. 
Snia.  P.C.C.  1628. 


Katherine,  bur.: 
at  St.  Mary  Ab- 
church,  London, 
1595.  She  had 
also  a  son  John, 
born  1594,  died 
1602. 


-2.  Robert  Bright  of  Lon¬ 
don,  after  of  Pakenham, 
co.  Suff.,  gent.  Lord  of 
Netherhall  Manor  in 
Thurston.  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  N.,  1  Oct.  1630; 
probt.  1  March  163°r. 


^Elizabeth,  daugh.  of 
Sir  Robert  Hougton, 
Kt.,  who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  28  Byrde,  14 
Jan.  1633;  bur.  at 
Thurston  1629.  See 
Earl.  MS.  1552. 


3.  Henry  Bright  of 
Bury  St.  Eds.,  gent., 
bapt.  1560;  admon. 
P.C.C.  Dec.  1610;  mar. 
Mary  Woodgate  &  had 
son,  Henry,  who  went 
to  New  England. 


4.  Jasper  Bright  of 
St.  Mary  Abchurch, 
London ;  citizen  & 
Salter  of  London ; 
Admon.  P.C.C.  Apl. 
1609  to  Joan,  his 
relict ;  had  issue. 


Thomas  Bright,- 
Esq.,  of  Nether¬ 
hall,  son  &  heir ; 
baptised  at  St. 
Mary  Abchurch, 
1590 ;  had  Con- 
firmation  of 
Arms  1641 ;  bur. 
at  Thurston 
8  Aug.  1661. 


=r  Agatha,  sister  of  Boro- 
dale  Mileson  of  Norton, 
co.  Suff.,  Esq.,  and  of 
Susanna  Freston,  1641. 


William  Bright,  bap.  1592,^= 
of  Great  Barton,  gent., 
devisee  of  Henry  Bright, 
his  brother,  1652. 


Captain  William  Bright  of  Hull,  “  cousin  ”  and  devisee 
of  Thomas  Bright  of  Ipswich  1698. 


Henry  Bright,  bapt.= 
at  St.  James’,  Bury, 
1593  ;  of  New  House, 
Pakenham,  co.  Suff., 
gent.  Will,  P.C.C. 
385  Brent,  2  March 
1652,  proved  1653. 


-Martha,  da.  of  William 
Fiske  of  Norton,  gent., 
who  made  Will.  Bury 
Wills,  Camden  Soc.,  20 
March  1638 ;  bap.  there 
1607  ;  mar.  there  28 
June  1626. 


Thomas  Bright, 
bap.  at  St.  Mary 
Bothaw,  1597 ; 
devisee  of  Robert 
Bright,  his  un¬ 
cle,  1630. 


1.  William  Bright, 
living  1668;  probably 
father  of  Wm. Bright, 
who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  171  Herne,  13 
August  1702,  nam¬ 
ing  aunt,  Katherine 
Woodward,  etc. 


2.  Robert  Bright  of 
Ipswich,  grocer. 
Will, Arch.  Suff., 29 
May  1668 ;  probt. 
3  July  following. 
Henry  Bright,  his 
brother  to  be  exor. 


3.  Henry  Bright 
of  Framsden, 
gent.,  1698;  Phis 
Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
N.,  1714,  then  of 
Clopton. 


4.  Thomas  Bright, 
Portman  of  Ipswich. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  17 
June  1698;  to  be  bur. 
with  wife  in  St.  Mat¬ 
thew’s  ch.  His  “cous¬ 
in”  Capt.Wm. Bright 
was  his  chief  heir. 


5.  John  Bright, 
“  a  distemper¬ 
ed  ”  man  so¬ 
journing  with 
Mr.  Ashborne; 
named  1686 
in  his  uncle 
Fiske’s  Will. 


- 1 — i 

1.  Katherine,  mar. 
1630  Francis  Wood¬ 
ward  ;  a  widow  in 
London  1698. 

2.  Martha,  wife  of 
Robt.  Nicholas  of 
Devises,  gent., 1698. 


Thomas  Bright  of  Ne-=pElizabetli,  da.  of  Cle- 


therhall,  gent.,  entered 
ped.  in  Suff.  Visitn. 
1664.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
4  May  1713 ;  bur.  in 
Thurston  church.  In 
Malaga  1650. 


mentHeigham,  Esq., 
of  Barrow ;  great 
grand-daugh.  of  Sir 
Clement  Heigham  ; 
dead  in  1704. 


Robert  Bright  of  Ne¬ 
therhall,  son  &  heir. 
Will,  P.C.C.  240  Ber¬ 
keley,  1652 ;  proved 
1656,  names  “  cous¬ 
in  ”  Willm.  Bright. 


Borowdale  Bright, 
living  1666. 

Agatha  Bright. 
Will,  P.C.C.  8  July 
1666 ;  prob.  Feb. 
166£. 


Elizabeth,  living  1666. 

Dorothy,  living  1666. 

Mary,  bapt.  at  Risby 
1625 ;  living  1652. 


- n 

Susan,  bapt.  1628  at 
Thurston.  Will,  P.C.C. 
176  Nabbs,  Sept.  1660. 

Katherine,  bap.  at  Thur¬ 
ston  1631 ;  bur.  there 
1632. 


Thomas  Bright  of  Netherhall, =j=Mary,  sister  and  heir  of 


Esq. ;  bap.  at  Barrow,  1660 ; 
mar.  circa  1712,  when  52 
years  old.  Will,  26  Dec.  1713, 
probt.  4  May  1727 ;  bur.  in 
Thurston  ch. 


William  Grigson  of  Forn- 
cett,  gent.  Her  Will,  16 
Aug.  1743,  proved  16  Oct. 
1744  by  Mary  Tyrrell,  her 
dau. ;  bur.  in  Thurston  ch. 


Agatha,  bap.  at 
Thurston  1663. 
Will  1731,  prob. 
at  Bury  1732 ; 
bur.  in  Thurston 
church. 


Dorothy  Bright  of 
Pakenham  ;  ob. 
s.p.  Admon.  to 
her  brother,  Tho¬ 
mas  Bright,  June 
1713. 


Mary,  bapt.  at 
Thurston  1667 ;  mar. 
John  Risby,  Esq.  of 
Thorpe  Morieux. 
Will  1727;  ob.  s.p. 
See  vol.  i.  73. 


H  eyham  B  right, 
died  of  small 
pox  at  Aleppo, 
6  Oct.  1704,  un¬ 
married. 


Thomas  Bright  of  Netherhall, 
Esq. ;  bapt.  1713  ;  died  31  Dec. 
1736,  aged  23,  unm. ;  M.I.  in 
Thurston  church.  The  last  of 
his  family. 


Anne,  1st  wife,  da.  of  Sir  — Edmund  Tyrrell,  Esq.  of  Gipp-: 
John  Duke,  M.P.  for  Oxford,  ing  ;  bap.  1703.  Will,  15  Aug. 
1640;  descended  from  the  1746,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  To  be 
Dukes  of  Brampton,  in  co.  bur.  in  Stowmarket  church. 
Suffolk. 


=Mary  Bright,  2d  wife,  only  sister  and 
heiress  ;  bapt.  1715  ;  mar.  1743  ;  bur.  in 
Stowmarket  church,  18  Sept.  1753. 
Admon.  to  Robt.  Sparrow,  the  guardian 
of  her  son. 


Edmund  Tyrrell,  Esq.  of  Gipping  ;  bapt.  1746  ;  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk,  1774  ;  sold  Netherhall ;  died 
1799,  aged  53  ;  bur.  in  Stowmarket  church.  Will  25  Aug.  1798,  P.C.C.,  proved  1799.  Estates  to  his 
cousins  the  Tyrrells.  M.I.  in  Stowmarket  church. 


Sarah  Tyrrell,  bom  6  April 
1746  ;  died  young. 


There  were,  apparently,  two  William  Brights,  nephews,  “cousins”  or  consanguineous,  to  Thomas  Bright  of  Ipswich,  in 
1698.  One  of  these  is  thus  referred  to  in  the  will  of  John  Hovell  al’s  Smyth,  Arch.  Suff.  1694,  as  “  Mr.  William  Bright  of 
Barton  sonne  of  Doctor  Bright.” 


BRIGHT  OF  ST.  EDMUNDSBURY. 


151 


iprtucjrrr  33  .  33rigf)t  of  33ut*y  anti  |3rlo  Ciujlanti. 


John  Blight  of  St.  Marys  parish,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  mercer ;  living  there  temp.  Henry  VII.  Leased=p 
lands  of  the  Abbey,  30  Henry  VIII,  1538 ;  bur.  in  St.  Mary’s  churchyard,  1545. 


.  .  .  lst=rWalter  Bright  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds, — Margaret  Elwokl,  Roger  Bright  of=j=Joan  Rolfe.  Will, 


wife. 


mercer.  Will,  P.C.C.,  4  Bucke,  28  Aug. 

1550,  proved  6  Feb.  1551 ;  bur.  25  Jan. 

1551.  St.  Mary’s  Register. 


2d  wife  ;  mar.  23  Bury,  named 
Jan.  1545,  at  St.  1550  in  his 
Mary’s,  Bury.  brother’s  will. 


Arch.  Sudb.,  4  Feb. 
1578,  proved  26 
March  1580. 


Margaret,  wife  of  Thomas 
Page  of  Thurston  (who 
made  Will  5  Oct.  1546)  ; 
named  in  her  brother’s 
Will,  1550  ;  had  issue. 


i — i - 

Augustine  Bright; 
living  1550. 

Nicholas  Bright ; 
living  1550. 


Thomas  Bright,  living 
1578,  of  Bury,  6  Sept. 
1584,  when  he  made 
will  nuncupative. 


:Alice  Stone ;  mar. 
1667 ;  re-married 
Richard  Ireland, 
1586. 


Ann,  bapt.  1539 ; 
mar.  Thos.  Wright 
1567,  and  had 
issue. 


Mary,  bapt.  1545  ; 
mar.  Thos.  Balles, 
1576,  and  had 
issue,  1578. 


Margaret,  bapt.  1543  ; 
mar.  Richd.  Collen  or 
Collign,  1569,  and  had 
issue,  1578. 


Thomas  Bright,  1578.  Agnes  Bright,  1578.  Margaret  Bright,  1578. 


John  Bright,  the  elder,  of  Bury, 
clothier.  Will,  P.C.C.,  5  Aug.1593  ; 
Decree,  P.C.C.  40  Dixey,  1594 ;  mar. 
Alice  Walot  1544,  who  made  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  11  July  1600. 


n — i — ■ — ~  — 
Walter,  bin*.  1550. 

Thomas,  bur.  1585. 

Susan,  bur.  1573. 


Joan,  wife  of  Thoma3 
Cage,  1550;  had  four 
daughters. 

Katherine,  wife  of  . . . 
Batt,  1550 ;  had  issue. 


Thomas  Bright,  Aider- 
man  of  Bury.  Will, 
P.C.C.  1587;  Inq.  p.m. 
41  Eliz.,  etc. ;  mar. 
Margaret  Payton,  who 
made  Will  P.C.C.  1599. 


Ann,  1st  wifey 
died  1563; 
had  da.  Mar¬ 
garet  Bright ; 
bapt.  at  St. 
Mary’s,  1558. 


=Edmund  Bright=rKatherine,  sister 


of  Bury ;  Ad- 
mon.  Arch.  Sudb. 
27  Nov.  1589; 
to  his  widow. 


Joan,  mar.  Thos. 
Osborne,  1572, 
and  had  issue ; 
living  1594. 


Katherine, bapt. 
1563 ;  mar.  Hen¬ 
ry  Copsey,1587 ; 
living  1594. 


Alice,  bap.  1565 ; 
mar.  Nicholas 
Sharpe,  1590 ; 
living  1594. 


Mary,  mar.  1580 
Henry  Cage,  & 
had  issue ;  living 
1594. 


Cicely,  mar.  Robert 
Beane,  and  had  issue  a 
da.,  Cecily  Beane  ;  liv¬ 
ing  1594. 


Margaret  Bright, 
bapt.  1560;  living 
1594,  apparently 
s.p. 


Elizabeth, 
bap.  1568, 
bur.  1576. 


r~ i - 

Margaret  Bright,  m. 
Robt.  Roades. 

Anne,  bap.  1562;  in. 
Thos.  Reade  1663. 


Katherine,  bapt.  1572 ; 
mar.  Benedict  Barker, 
gent.,  Alderman  of 
Bury. 


Joan,  bapt.  1573  ; 
married  Edmund 
Houghton,  brother 
of  Sir  Robert. 


Thomas  Bright  of=j=Mary,  wid.  of  Erasmus 
Bury ;  born  1561 ; 
mar.  2  Feb.  1592  at 
St.  Mary’s  Bury. 


Cooke,  whose  descendt. 
entered  ped.  in  the 
Suff.  Visit.  1664. 


of  Thomas  Cock- 
sage,  gent.,  who 
made  Will  P.C.C. 
5  Peter  1571. 


- -T1 

Robert,  bap. 1564. 

Katherine,  bapt. 
1565. 


Margaret,  bapt. 
1594. 

Marie,  bap. 1596. 


Thornes  Bright, 
bapt.  1598 ;  mar. 
Alice  D avys, 
1623. 


- n 

Susan, 


Edmund, 
bap.  1567.  bap.  1573. 

Alice  John, 

bap.  1568.  bap.  1574. 


Francis  Barker, =j=Susan  Bright,  bap.  1579  ;=f=Sir  Nicholas  Carew 


1st  husband,  by 
whom  a  dau., 
Susan  Barker  P 


her  2d  husband  was 
Butler,  by  whom  a  da., 
Rachel  Butler. 


/!\ 


als.  Throckmorton, 
3d  h  usb . ,  by  whom  a 
da., Susanna  Carew. 


A 


1.  Thomas  Bright,  Al¬ 
derman  of  Bury ;  son 
and  heir ;  Lord  of  But¬ 
ters  Hall  Manor  in 
Thompson,  Norfolk. 
Had  grant  of  Arms, 
1616. 


2.  Robert  Bright,  Esq. 
2d  son,  of  New  House 
in  Pakenham ;  mar. 
Eliz.,  da.  of  Sir  Robert 
Houghton.  =p 

A 

Pedigree  A. 


4.  Jasper  Bright, 
citizen  and  Salter 
of  London ;  bapt. 
at  St.  James,’  Bury 
1567 ;  bur.  at  St. 
Mary  Abchurch, 
London,  1609. 


3.  Henry  Bright  of  Bury ; 
bapt.  20  Sept.  1560,  at  St. 
James,’  Bury,  to  whom  his 
father  left,  1527,  estate  in 
Great  Barton  and  houses 
in  Bury ;  died  1609. 


=Mary,  da.  of  Stephen=r=Richard  Barker 


Woodgate  of  East 
Bergholt,  co.  Suffolk 
She  mar.  thirdly, 
William  Cole,  gent.  ; 
both  living,  1618. 


of  Nayland,  1st 
husband ;  ob.  7 
Nov.  1594,  1st 
husband.  Inq. 
p.m.  40  Eliz. 


Thomas  Bright  of 
Ipswich,  gent., 
bapt.  1596.  Will, 
P.C.C., 1618;  probt. 
1625 ;  names  Mary 
his  mother,  and 
Wm.  Cole  her 
then  husband. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  1598 
at  St.  James’,  Bury  ; 

mar . Dell  ;  a 

widow  1657,  when 
she  made  Will ; 
P.C.C,  17  September 
1598. 


— i — , - r~i — i - 

Anne,  bapt.  at  Stephen,  bapt.  at 
St.  James’  ch.  St.  James’,  Bury, 
1600;  d.  inft.  1605;  died  1607. 

Martha,  mar.  John,  bapt.  1600; 
....  Blowers,  living  1618. 
and  had  issue.  — 

Samuel,  bap.  1606. 


Henry  Bright,  bapt.: 
at  Bury  1602  ;  went 
to  New  England 
circa  1630 ;  mar. 
circa  1634  ;  died  at 
Watertown  in  N.E. 
Will  25  Jan.  1680  ; 
prob.  1686. 


:Ann,  daughter  of 
HenryGoldstone, 
son  of  Wm.  Gold- 
stone,  Vicar  of 
Bedingfield,  co. 
Suffolk ;  baptised 
1615  atWickham- 
brook. 


John  Bright,  eldest 
son  1680  ;  mar. 
Mary  Barsham. 


Nathaniel  Bright, 
2d  son,  mar.  Mary 
Coolidge. 


- 1 — 

Anna 

died 

young. 


Abigail 
m.  Elisha 
Odlin. 


Mary,  mar. 

Nathaniel 

Coolidge. 


Anna,  m. 

Samuel 

Ruggles. 


Elizabeth, 
m.  Walter 
Hastings. 


Mary  Barker,  sole 
da.  and  heir;  born 
1593;  mar.William 
Forth  of  Nayland, 
gent.,  cousin  to  Sir 
Robert  Forth  &  to 
Mary,  wife  of  John 
Winthrop. 

- 1 

Beriah, 
m.  Isaac 
Fowle. 


152 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


OTootitjatf  of  (Unst  Bfrgljolt. 


Stephen  Woodgate  of  East  Bergholt,  co.  Suffolk,  clothier.  Will,  P.C.C.  49=f  Cecily,  his  relict,  prov- 


Wrastley,  3  Oct.  1557,  proved  19  Nov.  same  year, 
and  Capell ;  children  young. 


Lands  in  East  Bergholt 


ed  her  husband’s  Will, 
19  Nov.  1557. 


Katherine,  Rose, 
and  Elizabeth, 
young  &  unmar¬ 
ried  in  1557 ;  one 
was  wife  of  Robt. 
Lincoln  als.  Skyn- 
ner  of  East  Berg¬ 
holt  1591. 


John  Whyter,; 
1st  husband, 
made  Will  20 
Dec.,  5  Eliz., 
1563.  Wood- 
gate  c.  Shelley 
Clianc.  Proc. 
Ser.  II,  192,  9. 


-Katherine,  da.  of= 
William  Hovell 
als.  Smyth  of 
Haughley,  gent., 
who  made  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  7 
May  1582.  See 
page  26. 


Richard,  Mary  and  Ann  Whyter ;  very  young  in  1563. 


= Stephen  W  oodgate: 
of  East  Bergholt, 
clothier.  Will, 
P.C.C.  90  Lewyn, 
10  May  1598 ; 
probt.  23  Novem. 
same  year.  See 
page  138. 


_ i 


Stephen  Woodgate, 
the  elder;  beyond 
the  seas  in  1599. 

Elizabeth,  m.  John 
Goodwin  of  East 
Bergholt, who  made 
Will  10  May  1600. 


Katherine  Wood- 
gate,  mar.  Edward 
Clarke  of  East 
Bergholt ;  Edward 
Clarke,  her  son, 
made  Will  1625, 
P.C.C.  127  Clarke. 


Anne  Woodgate,  was  widow 
of  John  Howe  in  1599,  by 
whom  a  son,  Stephen  Howe. 
By  her  2d  husband,  Robert 
Alefounder  of  Dedham,  she 
had  a  son,  John  Alefounder, 
who  entered  pedigree  in  the 
Essex  Visitation  1664. 


i - ' 

John  Goodwin  of  East 
Bergholt,  by  Will,  19 
July  1638,  left  £50  to 
the  Plantation  of  New 
England.  See  Ped. 
Suff.  Manorial  Fam¬ 
ilies,  vol.  i,  226. 


-Mary,  da.  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Derehaugh  of 
Badingham,  co. 
Suffolk,  2d  wife. 
Woodgate  c.  Good¬ 
win,  Eliz.,  B.  &  A. 
W.  21,  55. 


Richard  John  Woodgate,  3d  son, 

Woodgate,  mar.  Julian,  sister  of 

2d  son.  Grace  Harwell,  who 

made  Will,  P.C.C.  18 
Butts,  1580.  By  her  1st 
husband  she  had  a  son, 
Leonard  Tillett. 


: - 


Edmund  Woodgate,  1580. 


Elizabeth  Woodgate. 


Stephen  Woodgate, 
eld.  son,  of  E.  Berg¬ 
holt,  clothier.  Will, 
P.C.C.  146  Clarke, 
10  Oct.  1625.  Had 
issue  by  Margaret 
his  wife,  John,  Tho¬ 
mas,  Stephen  and 
Martha. 


Benjamin  Woodgate, =pSusan,da.ofChas. 


3d  son  of  East  Berg¬ 
holt,  clothier.  Will, 
Arch'.  Suff.,  23  July 
1603  ;  proved  28  Feb. 
following  ;  names 
Benjamin  his  son,  & 
Mary  his  sister,  wife 
of  Henry  Bright. 


Groome  of  East 
Bergholt,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C. 
58  Goare,  9  Mar. 
1636.  She  was 
then  wife  of  Robt. 
Aldis  of  Ipswich. 
Harl.  MS.  1560. 


A 


Thomas  Woodgate^Elizabeth,  da.  of  John 


of  Ipswich  (Cand¬ 
ler),  2d  son,  under 
age  1598  ;  of  Lon- 
dou,  merchant, 
1625;  already  mar¬ 
ried  in  1607. 


Knapp,  Portman  of 
Ipswich.  She  after¬ 
wards  became  4th  ivife 
to  Richard  Holmested, 
Rector  of  Dinnington. 
Candler  MSS. 


- 1 — , — — - — 

Daniel  Woodgate  of  E. 
Bergholt, 4th  son .  Will , 
23  Oct.  1624 ;  Inq.  p.m. 
10  Car. ;  had  issue. 


John  Woodgate, 
son ;  living  1625. 


5tli 


- ! - 

Hannah  Woodgate, 
not  yet  18  when 
her  father  made  his 
Will.  Was  Hannah 
Wragg  als.  Wood- 
gate  in  1627. 


Mary,  wife  of  Henry  =p 
Bright  of  Bury,  1598. 
Her  1st  husband  was 
Richard  Barker  of 
Nayland ;  her  3d  hus¬ 
band  was  Wm.  Cole  of 
Bury  St.  Eds.,  gent. 


Elizabeth  Woodgate, 
wife  to  John  Neave  of 
Ipswich  ( Candler) , who 
made  will  5  Aug.  1665, 
P.C.C.,  49  Mico.;  prob. 
29  March  1666 ;  had 
many  children. 


Martha  Woodgate,  mar.  Thomas 
1st  Thomas  Wilson,  by  Wood- 
whom  a  son  Thomas  gate. 
Wilson ;  2d  Captaine  ( Cand- 
Robert  Nelson.  Her  3d  lev) . 
husband  was  Captaine  Harl. 
Lionel  Lingwood  MS.  6071. 
(Candler).  =j= 


Mary  Woodgate,  wife  to 
Edward  Wase  of  Lon¬ 
don  :  devisee  of  her 
cousin,  Thomas  Bright 
of  Ipswich,  1618 ;  was 
then  unmarried.  Suff. 
Man.  Earn.,  vol.  i,  316. 


Mary  Barker,  sole  da.  and 
heir  ;  bapt.  1593  ;  mar.  Wil¬ 
liam  Forth  of  Nayland, 
gent.,  the  friend  of  John 
Winthrop,  Gov.  of  Massa¬ 
chusetts  ;  mar.  lie.  1611,  Bp. 
London.  Suff.  Man.  Fam., 
vol.  i,  119,  321. 


- 1  ! — ! - 1 

Henry  Bright,  the  new 
England  Emigrant. 

Thomas  Bright  of  Ips¬ 
wich,  who  names  Mary, 
dau.  of  Thos.  Woodgate 
of  Ipswich  in  his  will. 
Suff.  Man.  Fam.,  vol. 
i,  316. 


Thomas  Wilson,  cousin 
John  Wace,  1693,  then 
their  Majesties’  Service 


and  devisee  of 
married  and  in 
in  Ireland. 


John  Wace,  citizen  and  clothworker  of  London.  Will,  P.C.C. 
29  Coker  (Suff.  Man.  Fam..,  vol.  i,  316),  22  April  1693; 
bequests  to  the  daughters  of  Alderman  Dannett  Forth  and  to 
Thomas  Wilson,  his  cousin. 


Dannett  Forth,  Esq.,  eldest  son, 
Alderman  of  London ;  named, 
with  his  daughters  in  the  will 
of  John  Wace,  1693. 


Woodgate  contra  Shelley,  Chancery  Proceedings,  series  ii,  W.  192,  9.  Steven  Woodgate  of  East  Bergholt  and  Katheryn 
his  wife  widow  of  John  Whiter,  and  Richard,  Mary,  and  Anne  Whiter,  infants,  children  of  said  John,  complainants.  Whiter 
held  tenements  and  lands  of  the  Manor  of  Horkesley  co.  Essex,  in  all  fyve  score  and  nyne  acres.  He  made  will,  20lh  Dec. 
in  the  fyfte  yere  of  Q.  Eliz.  giving  to  Katheryn  his  wyfe  tenements  called  Welhouse,  for  life ;  and  to  Mary  his  daughter 
his  grove  called  the  Castle ;  and  to  Anne  his  daughter  two  tenements  called  Churchland  &c.  His  fields  called  Lesshers  and 
Cokkerells  he  gave  to  Katheryn  his  wife  with  remainder  to  her  son,  if  she  had  one.  Richard  Whiter  was  since  born.  On 
Whyter’s  decease  she  came  to  the  Court  of  the  Manor  and  prayed  that  her  children  might  be  admitted  to  these  copyholds. 
William  Shelley  Esq.,  the  Lord  of  the  Manor,  answered  that  yf  she  woulde  marye  wl  one  William  Washyngton  she  and  her 
children  should  be  admitted  tennants ;  but  should  she  marye  Steven  Woodgate  they  must  give  Washyngton  20'  for  his  good 
will.  Complaynants  pray  that  a  subpena  be  granted  against  Shelley  and  Wasshington;  who  reply  that  the  charge  is  false 
and  slanderous.  Rejoinders  and  replications  follow  and  the  proceedings  are  voluminous. 


l&arrett  of  Stirs tlmll. 


Will  of  |ol)it  of  $uru,  1465. 

I,  John  Baret,  beyng  at  Seynt  Edmndys  Bury  this  Satyrday  next  folwyng  the  feaste  of  the 
Natiuite  of  oure  Lady,  the  yeer  of  oure  Lord  Cryst  m1  cccclxn  and  iij  make  my  testeraent  in  this 
wyse :  First  I  corny  tte  my  soule  to  oure  Lord  God  Almyghty  and  to  oure  Lady  Seynt  Marie  and  to 
all  the  Seyntes.  And  my  body  to  be  beryed  by  the  awter  of  Seynt  Martyn,  namyd  also  our  Ladyes 
awter,  in  Seynt  Marie  chirche  at  Bury,  vnder  the  ocloos  of  the  retourne  of  the  candilbeem,  be  fore 
the  ymage  of  our  Sauyour,  and  no  stoon  to  be  steryd  of  my  graue  (tomb),  but  a  pet  to  be  maad 
vnder  the  ground  sille  ther  my  lady  Schardelow  was  wont  to  sitte,  the  stoolys  removyd  and  the 

body  put  in  as  neer  vnder  my  grave  as  may  be  wythoute  hurt  of  the  seid  grave . 

I  wille  haue  at  myn  interment  at  my  diryge  and  messe  v.  men  clade  in  blak  in  wurshippe  of  Jhus 
v.  wounds,  and  v.  wommen  clad  in  whith  in  wurshippe  of  oure  ladyes  fyve  joyes,  eche  of  them 

holdyng  a  torche  of  clene  vexe . I  will  yl  on  the  day  of  my  intirment  be  songge  a  messe  of 

prikked  song  at  Seynt  Marie  auter  at  vij.  of  ye  clokke  be  the  morne  or  sone  aftir,  y*  ye  messe  of 
requiem  may  begynne  forthwith  whan  y*  is  doo,  to  spede  the  tyme  for  ye  sarmon  ;  the  wiche  messe 

of  oure  lady  I  wille  the  Seynt  Marie  preest  kepe  in  a  whith  vestement  wiche  is  redy  made  ageyn 

yt  tyme,  with  a  remembraunce  of  my  armys  and  my  reson  (motto)  therto,  Grace  me  gouerne.  For 
what  day  God  fortune  y*  I  desese,  y*  day  eche  wyke  in  ye  yeer  I  wille  Seynt  Marie  preest  sey  a 
messe  of  oure  lady  at  Seynt  Marie  avter  in  ye  seyd  vestement,  and  af?  the  gospel  to  stonde  at  ye 
awter  is  ende  and  reherse  John  Barettys  name  opynly,  seying  Be  profundys  for  me,  for  my  fader 

and  my  mod,  and  for  alle  crysten  sowlys,  and  to  have  mynde  on  vs  and  on  Edmond  Tabour  in  his 

memento,  and  af?  the  said  messe  to  sey  a  memorie  of  requiem  for  vs  and  for  alle  cristen  sowlys. 

I  will  y*  Jenete  Whitwelle,  my  nece,  haue  hir  dwellyng  in  a  part  of  my  hefd  place  terme  of 
hire  lyffe.  And  she  to  haue  a  keye  of  the  grete  gardeyn  gate,  to  go  in  whan  she  wille,  and  hire 
suanth  and  what  ffrende  she  wille  calle  to  hire,  and  a  place  of  the  gardeyn  assigned  to  hire  for 
herbys  and  for  woode  to  lye  in.  Also  I  geve  and  be  gwethe  to  Willam  Baret,  sone  onto  Jeffrey 
Baret  of  Cratfeld  my  neve,  my  hefd  place  which  1  dwellyd  in,  with  the  gardynes,  berue,  and  duffous 
that  I  purchasid  therto.  I  will  that  my  executours  do  delyue  vxr  acres  and  xiij  of  lond  in  the 
Westegatefeld  and  in  Mekil  hornyngiserd,  Litil  hornyngiserd  and  Westele  which  I  will  Will“m  Baret 
haue  with  the  hefd  place,  to  hym  and  to  his  eyr  male ;  and  for  defawte  of  hem  I  wille  John  his 
brother  ineryt  next ;  and  for  the  defawte  of  eyr  male  of  the  seid  John,  then  Robert  his  brother  to 
haue  it ;  and  for  defawte  of  eyr  male  of  the  seid  Robert,  than  Thom  Baret,  brothir  to  ye  seid  J ohn 
and  Robert  to  haue  it ;  and  for  defawte  of  eyr  male  of  the  seid  Thomas  than  wil  I  John  the  sone 
of  Robert  Baret,  my  neve  haue  it  ;  and  for  defawte  of  issew  male  of  the  seid  J  ohn,  than  to  his 

Y 


154 


SOFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


oldest  brother :  and  so  fro  oon  to  another.  »  And  for  defawte  of  yssew  male  of  the  said  Robert, 
than  I  will  John  Baret,  sonne  of  old  Jeffrey  Baret  of  Cratfield,  dwellyng  w4  the  Abbot  of  Seynt 
Benyghtys,  to  hym  and  to  his  eyres  male  as  longe  as  they  laste.  But  I  wil  that  in  no  wyse  noon 
ydiot  nor  fool  oceupye  the  seid  goods,  but  refuse  hym  and  take  anothir  that  is  next,  [that]  the 
name  of  Baret  may  contynwe  goodly  as  longe  as  God  wochesaffe.  And  for  defawte  of  eyr  male  of 
the  Baretys  I  wille  my  hefd  place  and  londe  to  the  yssew  male  comyng  of  Thom  Drury  and 

Kateryn  my  nece . There  is  vij  acres  lond  lying  by  the  hih  weye  toward  the  grendyll,  not 

ferre  from  Herdwyk,  the  endys  abbuttyng  to  ward  the  sexteyn’s  medwe,  wiche  lond  my  fadir  gaf 
to  my  sustyr  Alis  Whitwelle  and  to  the  issew  coming  of  hire,  which  lond  Katerine  and  Jenete  my 
necys  be  in  possession.  I  grawnte  to  Willam  Baret,  or  to  hem  that  shalle  occupye  my  hefd  place, 
the  yeers  I  haue  vndir  the  coventys  seel  for  a  tenement  in  punchys  lane  w4  a  gardeyn  therto, 
except  the  halle,  the  ij  chambrys  with  the  soler  above  in  the  ende  of  the  halle,  and  a  part  of  the 
gardeyn  [which]  I  wil  that  Jone  Crattefeld,  othir  wyse  called  Jone  Baret,  my  nece,  dough tir  to 
Willam  Baret,  my  brother  of  Cratfeld,  haue  ’true  of  lyf,  and  the  said  Willrhn  Baret  to  paye  yeerly 
x8  to  my  seid  nece  Jone  Baret,  who  is  agyd,  terme  of  hire  life.  I  yeve  and  qwethe  to  the  seid 
Jone  Baret  a  competent  bed  and  othir  stuff  of  housshold,  a  lityl  grene  coffre  for  Kerchys  standing 
in  my  stodye,  and  a  notliir  coffre  stondyng  in  my  cliambyr  at  Elmyswelle.  I  wyll  to  Jenete  Whit¬ 
welle  my  nece,  terme  of  hire  lyf,  my  place  wich  I  bought  of  John  Notyngham  [and]  my  yeeris  that 
I  haue  be  copy  in  the  medwe  at  Babwelle.  I  yeve  and  qwethe  to  John  Aleyn  my  chyld  my  beste 
horse  with  sadil  and  brydil.  If  he  wil  be  a  preest  or  aprentys  to  a  craft  I  will  my  executours 
helpe  hym  therto.  To  sere  John  Cleye  my  cosyn,  and  preest  with  my  mais?  Prisote,  my  boke  with 
the  sege  of  Thebes  in  Englyshe.  To  Elizabeth  Drury,  my  wif,  a  ryng  of  gold  with  an  ymage  of  the 
Trinite.  To  my  neue  Thomas  Drury  my  best  purs  of  silke  and  gold,  and  xx11  to  put  ther  jnne  : 
the  seid  Thomas  to  haue  my  best  ryng  of  gold  next  my  signet,  therin  is  wretyn  Grace  me  governe. 
To  Anne,  the  doughtir  of  the  said  Thomas  Drury,  oon  of  my  lowe  chased  pecys  like  to  that  hire 
mooder  Katerine  my  nece  shal  haue.  To  John  Drury,  sone  on  to  the  seid  Thomas  and  Katerine  an 
nowche  of  gold,  w4  an  amatyst  and  a  saffer  w4  peerlys  hangyng  by. 

I  wil  that  the  Rysbygate,  wich  is  moost  roynows  of  the  town,  be  amended  and  maud  of  my 
coost  with  fre  steon  and  bryk,  archyd  and  embatelyd,  substancyally  to  endure  ;  and  a  twyx  the 
batilment  and  the  arche  in  the  myddys  I  wil  haue  an  ymage  of  oure  lady,  sittyng  or  stondyng  in 
an  howsyng  of  free  stoon,  and  remembraunce  of  me  besyde.  I  geve  to  Wiliam  Baret  my  signet  of 
gold,  with  a  pellican,  and  my  armys  grave  ther  in.  I  wil  that  myn  executours  make  a  sale  of 
my  place  at  the  popis  hed,  my  place  with  taverne  that  I  bough  of  Robert  Barbour’s  wiff,  and  my 
place  in  Mustowe  called  the  Hert  of  Hoop.  I  geve  to  Davit  John  Kertelynge  my  silver  forke  for  grene 
gyngor.  To  Clement  Drury  my  browne  cuppe  of  erthe  curyd.  I  ordeyne  these  v.  psonys  executours 
of  this  my  will  :  Thomais  Drury,  Thomais  Heigham  ye  yonggere,  maistir  Willam  Queyth,  Adam 
Newhhawe,  John  Coote  gentylman  ;  and  supvysour  I  ordeyne  John  Clopton  esqwyer  and  executour. 
Probatum  secundo  die  Maii,  1467.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Hawlee,”  fo.  95. 

The  will,  of  which  the  above  is  a  much  abbreviated  abstract,  is  given  verbatim  in  Bury  Wills 
and  Inventories ,  edited  for  the  Camden  Society  by  the  late  Samuel  Tymms.  In  that  work  it 
occupies  nearly  thirty  pages,  and  there  are  fourteen  more  of  descriptive  notes  and  illustrations.  It 
abounds  with  allusions  to  the  usages,  social  and  ecclesiological,  of  the  times  of  Henry  the  Sixth, 
and  is  most  interesting  reading.  John  Barrett,  who  is  supposed  to  have  been  Chamberlayn  or 
Treasurer  of  the  Abbey,  was  the  son  of  a  certain  Geoffrey  Barrett  of  Ci’atfield,  whose  will  was 
proved  in  1416  (Liber  “Osberne,”  fo.  142).  His  striking  altar  tomb  still  remains  in  St.  Mary’s 


BARRETT  OF  WESTHALL. 


155 


church  at  Bury.  Thomas  Barrett,  of  the  Westhall  family,  claimed  him  as  a  collateral  ancestor  in 
his  letter  to  Sir  Edward  Bysshe,  Clarencieux,  in  1671,  and  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  the 
statement,  although  yet  unproven,  is  correct.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  extreme  length  of  the 
will  precluded  its  insertion,  in  a  complete  form,  in  Suffolk  Manorial  Families. 


(Hill  of  ®£offn>|]  JJamtt,  1485. 

In  dei  nomine  Amen,  v°  die  mensis  Maij  Anno  Dni  ml0  cccclxxx  tercio,  Ego  Galfrus 
Barett  de  Haleswurth  condo  testamentum  meum.  Commendo  aiam  meam  deo  omnipotenti,  beate 
Marie  Virgini  &  omnibus  scis,  corpusq3  men  ad  sepeliend  in  Ecclesia  poclii  de  Haleswurth.  Lego 
sumo  Altari  eiusdem  Ecclie  vis  viij'1 :  ad  reparaconem  dee  Ecclie  vis  viijd.  Lego  ad  reparaconem  noui 
campanil  in  Rumburgh  ijs.  Lego  cuilt  domini  fratru  in  Don00  ad  orand  p  aia  mea  vi8  viijd.  Lego 
Robto  Ileuenyngham  fdio  Edmundi  Heuenyngham  Armigeri  xxvis  viij d  ad  promoconem  suam  ad  artificrh 
mercatoris  cu  veSit  ad  etatem  xiiij  annor.  Lego  Jotie  Heuenyngham  filie  ffdci  Edi  ad  suam  maritagiu 
vis  viijd.  Lego  vno  Cap11';  secular  ad  selebrand  p  anima  mea,  Katerine  vxoris  mee,  parentum  et  amicoru 
meoru  quibus  teneor  in  Ecclia  de  Halleswurth  p  unum  annum  viij  marc  vi8  viijd.  Lego  Ecclie 
de  Halleswurth  x  marc  ad  empeoni  vnius  campane  voc  Mary  baret  ita  qd  dca  campana  sit 
solut  de  meis  pprijs  solo.  Volo  qd  omnia  mesuagia  mea,  terr  A  tent  que  habeo  in  vitf  de 
Halleswurth  Suthwold  p  Executores  meos  vendantur  ad  soluend  debita  &  legata  mea. 
Residuum  vero  lego  &  committo  disposicoi  .Job is  Barett  filij  Robti  Barett  de  Barsham,  Johis 
Barett  filij  Wittm  Barett  de  eadm,  Johis  Medowe  de  Halleswurth,  Johis  Barett  de  Blythburgh 
quos  ordino  meos  Executores  &  Supiusor  Johis  Euerard  de  Cratfeld :  Et  lego  cuilibet  Executoru 
meoru  vis  viijd  preter  expensis  suis  Et  prefato  Johi  Euerard  p  labore  suo  vi3  viijd. 

Probatum  fuit  apud  Norwicum  &c.  sexto  die  Augusti  anno  Dni  M1  cccclxxxiii°. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  Registrum  “  Castone,”  fob  169  b.  (Harl.  MS.  10,  fo.  175  b). 


Still  ot  Jlobtt  IBarrett,  1510. 

John  Barrett  of  Blythborough  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke.  My  soul  to  God  &  my  body  to 
be  buried  in  the  Church  of  the  Blessed  Trinity  of  Blythborough,  by  S1  Anne  on  the  north  side. 
To  the  High  Altar  iij8  iiijd.  To  the  Cathedral  Church  of  Norwich  xxd.  Legacies  to  the  churches 
of  Walberswick,  Easton  &  Westleton.  To  buy  a  pair  of  silver  condlesticks  for  Blythborough 
Church  xxx1.  To  Johanne  my  wife  two  feather  beds,  mattras  &  halfe  of  household  stuff 
Residue  to  William  Barrett  my  son.  Executors  to  make  my  wife  Johan  a  grant  by  writing  of  an 
annuity  of  x  marks  out  of  the  messuage  wherein  I  dwell  &  land  which  I  late  bought  of  John 
Hoo  in  Blythburgh  &  also  a  like  grant  to  Alice  my  daughter  in  law,  late  wife  of  John  Baret 
my  son  of  L8  a  year.  The  messuage  and  land  on  which  above  are  charged  I  bequeath  to  my 
grandchild  Jeffery  Baret;  and  if  Jeffery  die  then  to  my  son  William  Baret:  Johan  my  wife  to 
have  messuage  called  “  the  Crown  ”  for  life,  which  my  father  dwelled  in  at  his  death.  Lands 
in  Blythburgh,  Bulchamp  &  Wenhaston.  William  Barrett  my  son,  exor.  Dated  the  feast  of 
S.  Thomas  the  Martyr,  1510.  Proved  March  10th  1513  by  son  William  Barrett. 

Suffolk  Archdeaconry  Wills,  1513-18,  fol.  32. 


156 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ffiltU  of  loan  Uamtt,  1526. 

Johan  Barrett  of  Blythburgh  widow,  10th  January,  1526.  My  soul  to  God  &  our  Lady 
Sfc  Mary  A  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  Church  of  Holy  Trinity  Blytheburgh  by  my  husband. 
To  the  High  Altar  of  said  church  iiis  iiijd.  To  Jeffery  Barret  in  recompence  for  wearing  his 
stuff  my  greatest  best  bed,  brass  pan  &c.  To  Alice  Barrett  my  god  daughter  bed,  furniture,  coral 
beads,  jewelry.  To  Alice  Kempe  feather  bed  &c.  To  Margaret  Barrett  my  da.  in  law  my  best 
gown.  To  Agas  Barrett  my  tauny  gown  purfled  with  shanks.  To  Johan  Kent  round  purfled 
gown.  To  Audry  Barret  my  long  jet  beads.  To  Elizabeth  Barret  my  green  girdle.  To  Johan 
Peasenhall  &  Agas  Bedon  each  a  black  kirtell.  To  Johan  Kent  my  best  head  lurcher.  Robt. 
Kent  my  godson  an  ewe.  Elizth  Southe,  Elyn  Bryuse,  Katn  Kent  kerchers.  Agnes  Smith  my  reband. 
Agnes  Arteys  beads.  To  John  Barett  gold  ring.  William  Barett  the  younger  a  gold  ring. 
John  Kent  my  servant.  Proved  14th  March  1526. 

Norwich  Con.  Court,  Regr.  38,  fo.  214  a;  Suffolk  Arch.  Wills,  1526,  fol,  163. 


Mill  of  Militant  Hamit,  1565, 

The  tenth  of  March,  1565,  I  Withn  Barret  of  Westhale  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  gent, 
doe  make  and  ordaine  this  my  Testament  it  laste  will  in  manner  A  forme  followinge.  That  is 
to  saye,  ffirste  I  bequethe  my  Sowle  to  allmyghtie  god,  fyrmelie  belevynge,  throughe  the  merits 
of  Jesus  Christe  my  redemer,  to  have  the  ffruycion  of  his  Dyvine  maiestie.  Hamon  Claxton 
Esq’  to  have  rents  of  all  hereditaments  wch  I  have  of  the  lease  of  Margaret  Barret  my  mother 
until  my  son  Thomas  be  xxvi  yeres  of  age.  To  Margaret  my  wife  all  my  other  lands  Ac. — the 
wood  A  gi’ounds  called  Westhall  Wood,  my  lands  A  tenements  called  Prentouts,  the  close  &  meadow 
called  Goddells  Close  A  Goddells  meadow  together  with  the  pasture  parcell  of  the  Wood  now 
Walter  Lenye’s  and  lands  I  have  of  the  lease  of  Thomas  Rous  Esquyre,  for  her  natural  life, 
she  bringing  up  my  two  sons  Owen  A  Xpofer  and  my  daughter  Prudens.  At  wife’s  decease 
said  lands  to  my  said  sons  Owen  A  Christopher.  To  Margaret,  Hellen  A  Katherine  my 
daughters  on  their  several  daies  of  marriage.  To  Thomas  my  son  one  fetherbed  A  all  that 
belonge  therunto.  Residue  of  houshold  stuffe  with  all  my  horses  Ac.  to  Margaret  my  wife  whom 
with  Richard  Barret  my  brother  I  ordejne  my  executors. 

This  is  the  trewe  will  of  the  above  named  Wittm  Barret,  gent.,  for  so  muche  as  is 
therein  contayned,  beinge  wrytten  in  his  Lyfe  tyme.  These  beinge  wytnes :  Fraunces  Bohun, 
James  Wolnaughe,  p  me  Robtu  Thompson  cler,  Wittm  Wolnowghe. 

A  codicill  anexed  to  the  Will  of  the  said  Wittm  Barret,  beinge  Pronounced  and  declared 
by  hym  in  his  Lyfetyme  but  not  wrytten  before  his  Deathe.  He  gave  unto  Margaret  his  wyfe 
all  his  mylche  kyne  in  the  presence  of  Frances  Bohun,  Robert  Thompsone  priste,  Wittm  Wol¬ 
nowghe.  Moreover  the  said  Wittm  Barret  did  gyve  unto  Francis  Bohun,  gent,  xx8,  these  beinge 
wytnes  :  James  Wolnowghe,  Wittm  Wolnaughe.  Also  he  gave  unto  Owyn  Barret,  Xpofer  Barret 
A  Prudence  Barret  his  three  golde  Rings  that  he  used  to  weare,  in  the  presence  of  the  same 
vvytnesses.  And  also  to  Thomas  Barret  his  eldest  son  one  sylver  salte  pcell  gylte  A  xi  silver 
spones  whiche  he  had  of  his  father’s  gyfte,  in  the  presence  of  the  last  named  three  witnesses. 

Prob  apud  Norwicum  undecimo  die  April  1566  by  Margaret  the  relict:  A  by  Richard  Barret 
another  exor  9th  August  1566.  Norwich  Consistory,  Book  “  Folkin,”  fo.  12. 


BARRETT  OF  WESTHALL. 


157 


Mill  oi  8Ijomas  MtngMft,  1575* 

The  nynthe  daie  of  June  1575  I  Thomas  Wingfeilde  of  the  Cittie  of  Norw°h  gent,  meaninge 
shortlye  to  take  my  voiage  into  the  Countrie  of  Ireland  doe  make  my  laste  will  in  fourme 
followinge.  I  commende  my  sowle  to  allmightie  god,  and  my  bodye  to  the  earthe.  I  gyve  to 
my  brother  Anthonye  Wingfeild  of  London  goldsmyth,  all  my  Landes,  Tenements,  Rentes  Ac. 
within  the  Realme  of  England  or  in  Ireland.  To  Owen  Barrett  and  Xpofer  Barrett  fyve  poundes 
a  peece,  and  to  my  sister  Prudence  Barrett  Tenne  poundes  to  be  paide  to  hir  at  hir  mariage 
or  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  The  rest  of  all  my  gooddes  &c.  I  bequeath  to  my  saide  lovinge 
brother  Anthony  Wingfeild.  And  I  make  the  same  Anthonye  the  sole  Executor  of  this  will.  In 
witnes  whereof  I  the  same  Thomas  to  this  my  present  wrytinge  have  sett  my  hande  and  seale 
the  daye  and  yere  abovesaide,  1575. 

Probatum  Quarto  die  Martij  1582  Juramento  Anthonij  Wingfeild  fris  et  executoris,  etc. 

P.C.C.  13  Rowe. 


Mill  of  AntboitD  Mingfblit,  1596. 

The  six  &  twentith  daie  of  ffebruarie  in  the  nine  and  thirteth  yeare  of  our  Soueraigne 
Ladie  Elizabeth,  I  Anthonie  Wingfeilde  of  London  gentleman  doe  make  and  declare  my  will.  As 
touchinge  such  temporall  possessions  as  god  has  voutsafed  to  bestowe  vppon  me  I  dispose  them 
as  herevnder  is  mentioned  and  expressed.  Firste  I  giue  to  my  cosen  Sr  Richard  Wingfeilde 
Knight,  my  messuage  &c.  in  North  Rougeton,  Setchey,  South  Linne  and  Hardwicke  in  the  countie 
of  Norfolke,  And  also  three  roodes  of  Customarie  lande  lyinge  within  the  homstall  in  Westwinch 
nowe  in  the  teanure  of  Thomas  Goodwin.  To  my  brother  Christofer  Barret  of  Norwiche  grocer 
thirtie  poundes  in  monie.  To  my  brother  Owyn  Barrett  of  Soulde  in  the  countie  of  Suffolk, 
gentleman  Thirtie  poundes.  I  will  that  my  Executor  shall  deliver  thirtie  poundes  into  the  handes 
of  the  foresaide  Christopher  Barrett  for  the  vse  of  my  Sister  Prudence  Platman  and  hir  children. 
To  my  cosen  Wingfeilde  Athowse  of  Kinges  Lynne  fortie  shillinges.  To  my  cosen  Mistris  Dorathie 
Gilbert  daughter  and  heire  of  John  Gilbert  of  greate  Fanbroughe  in  the  countie  of  Suff.  Esquier. 
To  Elizabeth  Gilbert  sister  to  the  (said)  Dorothie  Gilbert.  To  Vrsula  Gilbert  sister  also  to  the 
saide  Dorothie.  To  my  cosen  Mr  John  Wingefeilde  brother  to  the  saide  Sr  Richarde  Wingfeilde 
my  best  geldinge  with  saddle  and  bridle.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  I  giue  to  my  saide  loueing 
cosen  Sr  Richard  Wingefeilde  whome  I  ordaine  my  sole  Executor.  Probatum  Quinto  die  Martij 
1596  Juramento  procuratoris  Domini  Richardi  Wingefeilde.  P.C.C.  22  Cobham. 


SStiU  d  ®l)rislopI)£r  IBamlt,  1649. 

I  Christopher  Baret  ye  elder  of  the  City  of  Norwich,  Grocer,  being  very  ancient  &  full  of 
daies,  yet,  praised  be  ya  Lord,  of  sound  memory  and  understanding,  warninge  before  my  eyes 
ye  continuall  remembrance  of  man’s  frailty,  and  desirous  to  dispose  y*  earthly  porcon  God  hath 
comitted  to  my  care  undisposed  of,  doe  this  3d  July  make  this  my  last  will  and  testament.  I 
giue  to  the  poore  of  S4  Stephen’s  parish  xliij8  iiiid  A  to  the  Mayor  Ac.  for  the  poore  of  the 
City  v1.  To  my  two  sonnes,  Thomas  &  Christopher,  all  my  right  A  title  in  any  accompt 


158 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


or  reckoninge  between  Edmund  Doyly  Esq.  of  Shottisham  deceased  &  me.  To  Catherine  my 
daughter  my  right  &  title  in  the  Manor  of  Pulham  wherein  Gooch  lived,  and  my  other  estate 
which  Thomas  Preston  deceased  &  others  purchased,  and  the  said  Thomas  occupied  as  my  tenant, 
and  now  Isaac  Preston  his  son  holds  of  me  in  Pulliam.  To  my  said  daughter  Catherine  one 
hundred  poundes.  To  my  son  Robert  Baret  one  hundred  poundes.  To  Elizabeth  my  wife  the 
residue  of  my  estate.  I  ordeyne  her  sole  executrix.  My  loving  freinds  Charles  George  Cock  of 
the  City  of  Norwich,  George  Cock  of  Barsham  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  and  Robert  Cocke  of 
Great  Yarmouth  to  see  my  last  will  carried  out.  John  Calthorpe,  Sara  Ottway,  Easter  Herrick, 
witnesses. 

Probatum  apud  Norwic.  22  Aug.  1649.  Juramento  Elizabethie  Baret  relictas  et  executricis. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norwic. 

The  chief  interest  in  Christopher  Barrett,  who  was  Mayor  of  Norwich  in  1634,  centres  in 
the  fact  that  Margaret,  his  daughter,  and  Simon  Huntington,  her  husband,  emigrated  with  their 
children  to  New  England  and  became  the  ancestors  of'  a  distinguished  American  family,  which 
numbers  amongst  its  scions,  Governors,  Judges,  Generals  and  Colonels,  Doctors  of  Divinity, 
Professors  and  Members  of  Congress,  particulars  of  whom  will  be  found  in  the  Genealogical 
Memoir  of  the  Huntington  Family ,  by  the  Rev.  E.  B.  Huntington,  A.M.,  Stamford,  Connecticut, 
1863.  In  the  State  Library  at  Hartford,  Connecticut,  is  a  letter  of  Peter  Barrett  of  Norwich, 
dated  20th  April  1650,  to  his  nephew  Christopher  Huntington,  referring  to  moneys  of  his 
brother  Stoughton  (Margaret  Barrett’s  second  husband)  and  to  the  death  of  her  father  in  the 
previous  August. 


j^tafcnwitt  of  ®Ijomas  IBaratt,  1671. 

William  Baret  of  Blyborow  in  Suffolke  married  Margaret  y9  daughter  &  sole  heiress  of 
Richd  Love  of  Westhall  in  Suffolke  in  right  of  ye  sd  heiress  :  wee  beare  ye  two  Coates  Quarterly 
of  a  Lion  Rampant  &c.  &  a  Chevron  betwixt  3  Cross  Croslets  wtk  our  paternal  Coate  of  a 
Bend  azure  betweene  3  Lozenges  tongued  Gules  in  a  feild  Argent.  The  sd  Wilt  had  by  his 
wife  Margaret,  William  his  Eldest  Sonn  wth  severall  other  Children,  both  sonns  and  daughters,  of 
wcU  we  can  give  noe  accompt  but  of  one  daughter  yfc  was  married  to  Aid.  Hornsey  of  Norwch 
whose  daughter  was  married  to  Aid.  Wenman  of  Norwch  in  right  of  wch  daughter  Aid.  Hornsey 
did  impale  ye  Baret’s  Coate  &  left  it  standinge  on  his  Gate  &  soe  remaineth  where  Aid. 
Wenman  now  Liveth,  yet  we  have  heard  y*  some  of  ye  name  remaineth  about  Soul  or  South- 
woold,  Dunwich  &  Alburrow  townes  in  Suffolke.  The  fforesaid  Wm  Baret  deceased  ye  8th  of 
Noub  1547  pmo  Edw.  6*.  (The  quartering  with  the  lion  rampant  is  probably  that  of  Love.) 

William  ye  Eldest  Sonn  of  ye  Aforesaid  Wm  Baret  married  Jane  y®  daughter  of  Wilt 
Claxton  of  Halesworth  in  Suffolke  by  whom  he  had  issue,  but  all  dyed  w*  out  issue :  his  2d 
wife  was  Margaret  ye  widdow  of  .  .  .  Winkefeild,  Abbot  of  Castle-Acre  in  Northfolke,  by  whome 
he  had  Owen  &  Christopher  &  one  daughtr  Prudence  all  which  were  borne  to  him  in  Westall 
in  Suff.  The  sd  William  deceased  ye  11th  of  March  1565. 

Owen  married  to  one  Christian  Randall  by  whome  he  had  one  sonn,  2  daugh? :  ye  sonn 
dyed  young :  ye  daughter  left  issue,  but  can  give  noe  accompt  of  them. 

Christopher,  beeing  very  young  when  his  ffather  dyed,  was  by  his  mother  Margaret  (whoe 


BARRETT  OF  WESTHALL. 


159 


afterwards  married  to  Aid.  Suckling  of  Norwcl‘)  brought  to  Norwch  <fe  by  his  ffather  in  Law 
Sucklinge  bound  out  an  Apprentice  to  London  at  ye  age  of  12  yeares  for  12  yeares  service* 
after  y3  expiration  of  his  service  he  ....  &  seated  him  selfe  in  Norwch  &  married  Elizabeth 
y®  daughter  &  sole  heiress  of  Allen  Clarke  a  Gentleman  of  Hebberstow  or  Hemmerston  in 
Lyncolnshire  by  whome  he  had  male  issue  Christop’1  his  Eldest  Sonn  (whoe  dyed  a  single  pson), 
William,  Thomas,  Peter  &  Robert,  besides  severall  other  Children  both  male  &  ffemale  y4  dyed 
issueless,  except  only  Margaret  whoe  married  to  one  Symond  Huntington  whoe  Carried  her  to 
New  England  &  had  severall  Children  by  her,  but  wee  can  give  noe  account  of  her  or  them, 

yet  thinke  y4  shee  &  severall  of  her  Children  are  Livinge  there. 

William  ye  sonn  of  Christoph  married  to  Martha  ye  daughter  of  .  .  .  Morris  of  Bristow  & 
by  her  had  severall  Children :  all  dyed  isules  but  Christopher  whoe  is  yet  a  single  man  & 
Peter  whoe  married  Jane  y®  daughter  of  .  .  .  Thornton  a  minister  in  Northfolke  &  by  her  hath 
two  sonns,  Thomas  &  William,  both  very  young. 

Thomas  ye  3  sonn  of  Christoph  Baret  married  Sarah  y®  daughter  of  ffrancis  Cock  Ksqr 
by  whome  he  hath  had  severall  Children  both  sonns  and  daughters  :  all  dyed  issueless,  Butt  Thomas 
&  Elizabeth.  Thomas  married  Hester  daughter  of  John  Mann  Esqr  by  whome  he  hath  had  two 
Children,  John  &  Sarah,  but  both  dyed  verry  young.  Elizabeth  married  to  William  Rayley  2d 
sonn  to  John  Rayley  Esqr  by  whom  shee  hath  now  Liveing  foure  sonns,  John,  Thomas,  William 
Jt  Augustine  &  five  daughters,  Mary,  Sarah,  Elizab,  Ann  &  Rebecca. 

Peter  ye  4th  sonn  of  Christoph  Baret  married  to  Mary  y®  daughter  of  .  .  .  Wright  of 
Beckles  in  Suffolk  by  whome  he  hath  had  severall  Children  y4  dyed  young.  Thomas  his  eldest 

married  to . dyed  lately  Issuless.  Christoph  his  2d  sonn  is  still  a  single  man : 

Elizab411  his  daughter  married  to  John  Kent  of  London  whoe  liveth  at  y®  3  Tonns  in  Crowchet 
ffryars  <fc  hath  Children  by  her,  but  I  know  not  how  many. 

Robert  y®  5th  sonn  of  Christoph  Baret  married  to  Lydia  y®  daughter  of  fir :  Cock  Esqr 
by  whome  he  had  severall  Children  y4  dyed  young :  his  eldest  was  Christopher  whoe  dyed 
Issueless :  his  daughter  Elizabeth  married  to  .  .  .  Jackson  of  Yarmouth  in  Norfolke,  March4  & 
hath  by  him  one  Sonn  Robert  <fc  one  daughter  Lydia  both  young. 

This  ffamily  and  ther  Auncestors  did  inhabitt  in  Westhall  &  Bly borough  for  betweene  2 
&  3  hundred  yeares  &  y®  Coate  of  Armes  was  sett  in  ye  Glass  windowes  of  y®  sd  parish 
Churche  till  ye  Late  Reformation,  that  tooke  painted  Glass  as  Idolatrous,  beate  them  downe,  as 
Robert  y®  youngest  sonn  of  y®  abovesd  Christopher  did  often  testify  (whilst  Liveing)  to  his  owne 
knowledge.  There  is  now  extant  an  Aunchent  Monument  of  one  of  o1'  Auncestors  in  Bury  & 
there  was  an  other  whoe  Layeth  buryed  in  Sb  Martins  in  the  feilds  as  I  was  informed  by  a 
Letter  from  a  Relation  some  yeares  since. 

William  Baret,  2d  sone  to  Christoph,  beeing  servant  to  Sr  John  Sucklinge,  Controuler  to 
ye  howshold  of  his  Late  Matie  Cha  y®  1st,  about  50  odd  yeares  since,  searched  ye  Heiroulds’ 
office  in  London  &  found  y®  Coate,  verry  aunchent,  given  without  a  Ci'est :  and  about  100  <fc 
odd  yeares  after  y®  Crest  of  a  Helmet  Bard  &  Plumed  Or  &  Azure  was  added ;  &  we  have  a 
tradition  amongst  vs  y4  it  was  given  to  Wifi:  Baret,  a  french  Gentleman  y4  cam  over  with 
William  y®  Conqueror  &  was  with  him  at  y®  Bataile  of  Abby,  as  Stow  mentions  in  his  list  of 
names  taken  after  y®  Battaile. 

This  statement  was  made  by  Thomas  Barrett  of  Norwich  (whose  pedigree  was  entered  in 
the  Norfolk  Visitation  of  1664)  to  Sir  Edward  Bysshe,  in  a  letter  dated  4th  Nov.  1671. 
4dd.  MS.  22,883,  fo.  40. 


160 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


petugm,  Barrett  of  OTrsfljall  anti 


John  Barrett  of  Blythborough  in  Com.  Suff.  gent.  (Harl.  MS.- 
1560);  devisee  of  Margaret  Hoo,  1498  (in  Will  Arch.  Suff.), 
and  of  Geffrey  Barrett  of  Halesworth,  1483  (in  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  proved  18  July  1487). 


.  .  daughtr  of  ... ;  probably  Johan  Barrett, 
widow,  whose  Will  (Arch.  Suff.),  10  Jan.  1526, 
provides  for  her  burial  by  her  husband  in 
Blythborough  church. 


William  Barrett  of  Westhall  in  Com.  Stiff. =f=Margarett  daughtr  fy-  heire  to 
gent.,  sone  Sf  heire.  named,  1565,  in  her  son’s  Will. 


Jane  maryed  to  Phillipe  Sowthells  of  St. 
Andreives  of  Ilkenshall  in  Com.  Stiff,  gent., 
after  to  Robert  Slcete,  3d  to  James  Letter  of 
Lowestoft.  She  made  Will,  Arch.  Suff., 
14  Feb.  1584. 


Love  of  Westhall ; 


A  daughtr  maryed  to  Geferye  Kempe  of 
Woodbridge. 


Agnes  maryed  to 
Robert  Canon  of 
Wrentham. 

Alyce  maryed  to 
James  Barne. 


Awdrye  m.  to  William 
Barker  of  Southold  (who 
made  Will  P.C.C.  1557); 
after  to  Robert  Bardwell 
(who  made  Will  P.C.C. 
66  Dixey,  1593). 


ffrances  maryed  to  Nycholas  Elizabeth 
Hornsse  of  ffraustenton.  Mannyng 

—  hall,  who 

Dorothe  maryed  to  Robert  See  his 
Barker  of  Sowthoivlde.  5  E.  VI. 


m.  Robert 
of  Ukets- 
ob.  1540. 
Inq.  p.m. 


William  Wingfield,  som e-^rMargaret  Wingfeilde,=f-Wiiliam  Barrett  of  Westhall=f=Jane  daughter  to  Willm  Xpofer,  second  sone, 


time  Abbot  of  Castle 
Acre,  1st  husband,  Harl. 
MS.  6071.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  16  Nov.  1555. 


d.  to  Petyshall  of 
Norwyche,  his  second 
wyffe.  She  mar.  3d 
Alderman  Suckling 
of  Norwich. 


Anthony  W  ingfield. 
Will,  P.C.C. 22  Cob- 
ham,  1597. 


Thomas  Wingfield. 
Will,  P.C.C.  13  Rowe, 
1575. 


in  Com.  Stiff.,  gent.,  sone  8f 
heire.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
10  March  1565 ;  prob.  9  Aug. 
1566.  Entered  ped.  Suffolk 
Visitation  1561. 


Claxton  of  Chesson  in 
Com.  Stiff.  esquire. 
All  her  children  are 
said  to  have  died  sans 
issue. 


mar.  Prudence,  sis¬ 
ter  of  Reginald 
Rouse  of  Bading- 
ham.  Harl.  MS. 
1560. 


Richard, 
third  sone, 
named  in 
his  broth¬ 
er’s  Will 
1565. 


Hamond  Barrett 
sone  Sj  heire. 


William, 

second 

sone. 


Thomas,  third 
sone ;  living 
1565. 


Eleanor,  Katherin  8f 
Margarett,  all  living 
1565. 


Owen  Barrett,  named  in  his  father’s  Will, 
1565,  married  Christian  Randall  and  had 
a  son,  who  died  young,  and  two  daus., 
who  married  and  had  issue ;  bapt.  1561. 


Christopher  Barrett,  bapt.  at  Westhall,  1562  ;  went=f  Elizabeth,  dau.  &  sole  heir 


to  Norwich  with  his  father-in-law  Suckling;  Mayor 
of  Norwich,  1634.  His  Will  was  proved  there  in 
the  Bishop’s  Court  22  Aug.  1649. 


of  Allen  Clarke  of  Heb- 
berstow  or  Hemmerston, 
in  co.  Lincoln,  gent. 


Prudence, 
wife  of  ...  . 
Platman,  in 
1596. 


Chris-  William  Barrett,  2d 

topher  son,  mar.  Martha, 

Barrett,  da.  of  .  .  .  Morris 

eldest  of  Bristow,  and  had 

son,  a  son  Peter  Bar- 

died  un-  rett,  who  mar.  Jane 

mar.  Thornton  and  had 

issue. 


Thomas  Barrett=j=Sarah,  dau.  of  Fran- 
of  Norwich,  3d 
son,  entd.  ped.  in 
Norff.  Visitation 
1664.  Will,  P.C.C. 

131  Cann,  19Dec. 

1683,  proved  6 
Dec.  1685. 


cis  Cock,  Esq.,  of 
Norwich,  whoseWill, 
P.C.C.  24  Ridley, 
1628,  names  her  and 
her  husband  &  their 
daughter. 


Peter  Barrett, 4th 
son,  mar.  Mary 
Wright  of  Bec- 
cles ;  wrote  letter 
to  his  nephew  in 
New  England, 
1649. 


Robert  Barrett, 
5th  son,  mar. 
Lydia,  dau.  of 
Francis  Cock, 
Esq.,  by  whom 
several  child¬ 
ren,  living  1671. 


- 1 

Margaret,  mar. 
Simon  Hunting- 
ton,  who  took 
her  to  New  Eng¬ 
land  ;  she  mar. 
2d  Tho.  Stough¬ 
ton. 


Thomas  Barrett,  son  and=pHester,  dau.  of  Elizabeth  Barrett,1 


heir,  1664 ;  proved  his  fa¬ 
ther’s  Will  in  Dec.  1685. 


John  Mann,  Esq.,  had  nine  children 
of  Notwich.  living  in  1671. 


William  Ray  ley, 
2d  son  to  John 
Rayley,  Esq. 


Christopher  Huntington,  to  whom  his  uncle  Peter 
Barrett  wrote  letter,  1649,  printed  in  “  Genea¬ 
logical  Memoir  of  the  Huntington  Family.” 


i — i - 

John  and  Sarah  died 
very  young. 


John 

Rayley. 


- ! - 

Thomas 

Rayley. 


William 

Rayley. 


Augustine 

Rayley. 


Mary. 


Sarah. 


■ — I - 

Elizabeth. 


Ann. 


Rebecca. 


The  Barrett  Pedigree  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1561  is  here  given  in  italics.  Descents  are  added  from  the  Norfolk 
Visitation  of  1664,  and  from  the  written  statement  sent  to  Sir  Edward  Bysshe  by  Thomas  Barrett  of  Norwich  in  1671. 

The  Arms  of  Barrett  of  Westhall  at  the  Visitation  of  Suffolk  in  1561  were  Argent,  a  bend  Azure  between  three 
buckles  lozengy  Gules  (Harl.  MS.  1560).  At  the  Vistation  of  Norfolk  in  1664  these  were  borne  by  Thomas  Barrett  of  Norwich, 
the  then  representative  of  the  family,  with  the  addition  of  a  Crest,  on  a  helmet  two  ostrich  feathers,  the  one  Or,  the  other 
Argent  (Harl.  MS.  1085).  A  similar  shield  appears  upon  the  tomb,  in  the  church  of  St.  Mary,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  of  John 
Baret,  the  pious  and  munificent  churchman,  who  died  in  1467,  but  the  bend  is  super-posed  over  one  of  the  buckles.  There 
is  no  reasonable  doubt  of  the  near  relationship  of  the  Bury  and  the  Westhall  Barretts,  although  the  exact  lines  of  descent 
have  not,  as  yet,  been  clearly  worked  out. 


fJartrttjge  of  jfiuborougl). 


JUmoral  Hearings. 

The  arms  of  Partridge  of  Finborough,  as  recorded  in  the  original  manuscript  of  Cooke’s 
Suffolk  Visitation  of  1577  at  the  Heralds’  College,  were  Chequy  Argent  and  Sable,  on  a  bend 
Or  three  escallops  of  the  second.  Edmondson,  however,  usually  an  excellent  guide,  describes  the 
bend  as  Gules  ( Complete  Body  of  Heraldry ,  1780,  vol.  ii).  Harl.  MS.  1560  has  it  Sable. 
Harl.  MS.  1820  omits  the  escallops.  "We  need  scarcely  add  that  the  only  correct  authority  is 
the  Original  Visitation,  and  that  all  the  others  are  wrong.  The  Crest  was  a  horse’s  head  erased, 
per  fesse  Sable  and  Gules,  crined  (or  maned)  Or. 

Partridge  of  Finborough  was  one  of  the  “  cheife  gentry  ”  of  the  county  whose  arms 
Ryece,  the  author  of  the  Breviary  of  Suffolk  (1618),  caused  to  be  painted  on  the  windows  of 
Preston  church  early  in  the  seventeenth  century.  Partridge  impaling  Tymperley  was  formerly  in 
Hintlesham  church,  where  so  many  of  the  latter  family  were  buried.  (Add.  MS.  5,829,  fo.  202a.) 

Mr.  Charles  Partridge,  M.A.,  of  Stowmarhet,  Suffolk,  political  officer  in  Southern  Nigeria, 
W.  Africa,  writes : — “  Partridge  has  always  been  a  prolific  name  in  Suffolk.  As  far  as  I  know, 
the  only  branch  ever  entitled  to  use  armorial  bearings  was  that  of  the  ‘  Visitation  ’  family  of 
Partridge  of  Great  Finborough,  which  seems  to  have  resided  in  the  county  during  the  reigns 
of  Mary  and  Elizabeth  only.  The  other  branches  established  in  Suffolk  before  1600  may  be 
tabulated  as  follow  : — 

(1)  Of  Wood  bridge  •  Rob.  Pteriche  of  Woodbridge  made  his  will  16  May  1459,  proved 

Archd.  Suff. 

(2)  Of  Shotley ;  John  Pertryche  of  Shotley’s  will  is  dated  7  Aug.  1463,  proved  Archd.  Suff. 

(3)  Of  Acton,  Sudbury,  and  Lavenham  ;  see  Proceedings  of  the  Suff.  Institute  of  Archceology, 

vol.  x,  part  ii,  150-163. 

(4)  Of  the  Greetings  and  Stonhams ;  will  of  George  Partryche  of  Creeting  All  Saints 

proved  1536,  Archd.  Suff. 

(5)  Of  Ipswich. 

(6)  Of  Bradfield  S.  Clare  and  Great  Welnetham ;  see  The  Bast  Anglian,  or  Notes  and 

Queries,  on  subjects  connected  with  the  counties  of  Suffolk,  etc.,  third  ser.,  vol. 

viii,  190-191. 

(7)  Of  Higham  and  Capel  S.  Mary,  afterwards  of  Holton  S.  Mary  and  Shelley  Hall.” 

At  the  Visitation  of  Gloucestershire  in  1583  {Harl.  MS.  lOjl,  fo.  4b)  the  arms  allowed 

to  Partrich  of  that  county  were  Chequy,  Argent  and  Sable,  on  a  bend  Gules  three  escallops 

Or ;  the  Crest  being  out  of  a  ducal  coronet  Or,  a  horse’s  head  Sable.  These  insignia  had  been 

confirmed  by  Lawrence  Dalton,  Norx-oy,  in  1561,  and  afterwards  by  William  Hervey,  Clarencieux, 

in  1566. 


W 


162 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(Extracts  from  |3arislj  Kcgistcrs. 

Badingham. 

1552.  Maria  pertrege  filia  Robarti  pertrege  Baptizata  fuit  7,no  die  Augusti  Anno  dni. 

155a.  Agneta  partridge  filia  Robarti  partridge  Baptizata  fuit  14  die  ffebruarij  Anno  dni. 

Great  Finborougii. 

1558.  Margret  Partredge  wid.  buried  the  24  of  December. 

1562.  Margret  Partredge  filia  Robert  Partredge  bapt.  17  Maye. 

1578.  Margret  Partredge  filia  Tho :  Partredge  bapt.  20  November. 

1579.  Nicholas  Partredge  bapt.  the  19  of  November. 

1581.  Thomazen  Partredge  bapt.  the  8  of  Maye. 

1582.  Ivatherin  Partredge  fillia  Tho :  Partredge  bapt.  5  December. 

1586.  Ursula  Partredge  fillia  Robert  Partredge  was  baptized  the  24  of  September. 

„  Bytteris  [?  Beatrice]  Partredg  ux  Thomas  Partredge  thelder  buried  the  9  of  December. 

„  Ursula  Partredge  buried  the  23  of  December. 

158A.  ffrancis  Partredge  ffilius  Robert  Partredge  bapt.  the  29  of  January. 

1594.  Thomas  Partredg  buried  the  28  of  October. 

(The  next  entry  of  the  name  is  in  1670.) 

Buxhall. 

1577  July  xxviij.  John  Salter  and  Agnes  Partridge  maried.  (And  see  Copinger’s  Hist,  of 
Buxhall,  154-155.) 


from  tlje  Suffolk  Uisttatiim,  1577. 


Robert  Partridge  of  Finborow.  co.  Suff.=i=Margaret,  da.  of  .  .  .  Nunn  of  Sprowton  in  Suff. 


Robert  Partridge  of  Finborow. =FUrsula,  da.  of  ..  .  Ive  of  Laxfield  in  Suff. 


I - 1 - 1 - 1 

Thomas  Partridge,  son  and  heir.  Robert  Partridge,  2  son.  Mary.  Agnes. 


No  ancient  pedigree  of  the  Ives  of  Suffolk  has  been  recorded  in  the  Harleian  MSS. ;  but  they  inter¬ 
married  with  the  families  of  Wade,  Partridge  and  Colby.  Metcalfe’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  pp.  17,  99,  173.  In 
the  twentieth  year  of  Edward  IV  (1480-81)  John  Tymperly,  sen.,  “purchased  by  Fine,  the  Manor  of  Boyton 
in  Finborougii  Magna,  Combes,  Stowmarket,  Hecham,  Buxhall  and  Felsham,  of  John  Ive  and  Alice  his  wife 
and  John  Colby  and  Isabella  his  wife,  daughter  of  said  John  and  Alice.  Now  John  Colby  of  Banham  in 
Norfolk  who  married  Isabel,  dau.  and  one  of  the  heirs  of  .  .  .  Ive  of  Finborough,  had  issue  John  Colby  of 
Brundish,  whose  children  were  living  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1561.  Marl.  MS.  1103.  Dorothy  Tymperley, 
a  descendant  of  John  Tymperley,  married  Thomas  Partridge,  the  son  of  Robert  Partridge  and  Ursula  Ive 
in  1578.  Thomas  Tymperley,  her  father,  was  the  then  lord  of  Boyton  Hall. 


PARTRIDGE  OF  FINBOROUGH. 


163 


Will  of  fvobnt  ffulritrge,  1594. 

The  tenth  daie  of  Aprill,  1594.  I  Robert  Partridge  the  elder  of  greate  Fynborowe  in 
the  countie  of  Suff.,  gentleman,  doe  make  this  my  last  will  and  Testament.  I  bequeath  my 
soule  into  the  handes  of  god  and  my  bodie  to  be  buried  within  the  parishe  church.  I  giue 
to  my  wife  Urcelie  Partridge  one  yeerelie  annuitie  of  twentie  poundes  payable  by  Richard  Howe 
of  Stowmarket,  gentleman,  as  is  specified  in  a  paire  of  Indentures  betweene  vs ;  provided  that 
{she)  shall  quite  release  to  my  sonne  Thomas  Partridge  all  that  right  which  she  maie  haue  in 
anie  of  my  landes  in  Beeston,  Sprowston,  Spixworth  and  Crostwicke  in  Norff  and  Dinington 
in  the  countie  of  Suff.  Further  I  giue  to  (her)  the  vse  of  two  hundred  poundes  duringe  her 
naturall  life  with  condition  for  the  true  repaiement  thereof  to  my  sonne  Robert  after  her 
decease.  To  Dorothie  Richar,  the  wife  of  Henrie  Richer  of  Buxhall,  the  somme  of  tenne 
poundes ;  (they  to)  release  all  benefits  as  maie  befall  to  the  saide  Dorothie  by  the  death  of 
John  Rooke  her  father.  I  bequeath  to  Alice  Games,  the  wife  of  Adlord  Games  of  greate 
Fynbarowe  the  somme  of  five  poundes.  Also  to  the  saide  Alice  Games  a  dun  ambling  nagge 
which  her  husband  hath  nowe  in  his  occupation.  Adlord  Games  doth  owe  me  twentie  fouer 
poundes.  Yf  (he)  and  Alice  his  wife  shall  make  a  release  of  all  guiftes  and  benefittes  as  maie 
befall  to  her  by  the  death  of  John  Rooke,  her  father,  the  saide  Adlord  shall  be  acquitted  of 
the  debt.  I  giue  to  Anne  Devoros  the  wife  of  William  Devoros  tenne  shillinges.  Also  to 

Robert  Devoros  the  sonne  of  the  saide  William  the  somme  of  three  shillinges  fouer  pence.  The 
saide  William  Devoros  standeth  bounde  for  the  paiement  of  twentie  poundes.  Yf  (he)  and 
Anne  his  wife  shall  release  all  guiftes  as  maie  befall  to  her  by  the  death  of  John  Rooke  her 
father  then  the  saide  bonde  to  stand  voide  and  to  be  redeliuered  into  the  handes  of  the  saide 
William.  I  giue  to  Annis  Salter  my  daughter,  the  wife  of  John  Salter  of  Buxall,  a  syluer 
goblet  of  percel  guilt  and  two  stone  pottes  tipped  with  syluer.  To  my  daughter  Marie  Girlinge 
the  wife  of  Edward  Girlinge  thirtie  shillinges.  To  my  brother  Thomas  Partridge  twentie  shillinges. 
To  Frauncis  Partridge  the  sonne  of  my  sonne  Robert  Partridge,  fortie  shillinges.  To  the  poore 

of  greate  Fynbarow  twentie  shillinges,  to  be  distributed  at  the  time  of  my  buriall.  To  the 

poore  of  Stowmarket  tenne  shillinges.  To  the  poore  of  Buxhall  tenne  shillinges.  I  stand 

bounde  to  Thomas  Tymperly  Esquier  late  of  Hyntelasham,  deceased,  for  the  paiement  of  three 
hundred  and  fouer  score  poundes  to  my  sonne  Thomas  Partridge.  I  giue  to  my  saide  sonne 
Thomas  two  hundred  poundes  due  to  me  from  the  saide  Thomas  Tymplye  by  a  certeine 

obligation.  Alsoe  I  giue  to  my  saide  sonne  Thomas  Partridge  one  bonde  wherein  the  said 

Thomas  standeth  bounde  vnto  me  for  the  paiement  of  one  hundred  and  tenne  poundes.  I  make 
my  saide  sonne  Thomas  Partridge,  with  my  saide  sonne  Robert  Partridge,  to  be  my  onelie 
Executo”.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  shalbe  equallie  deuided  betweene  my  saide  two  Executora 
Prouided  that  my  sonne  Thomas,  in  consideration  of  the  legacies  to  him  bequeathed,  shall 
deliuer  to  my  sonne  Robert  Partridge,  at  the  now  mansion  house  of  John  Scarlett  in  Stow¬ 
market  the  aforesaide  bond  wherein  I  stand  bounden  to  Thomas  Tymperlie  Esquier,  or  one 

sufficient  discharge  from  the  Executors  of  the  saide  Thomas  Tymperlie  for  the  saide  bonde. 
And  I  make  John  Scarlett  of  Stowmarket,  clothier,  Suprauiso1  of  this  my  last  will,  and  for  his 
paines  I  bequeath  (him)  the  somme  of  twentie  shillinges.  Theise  beinge  witnesses,  Richard 
Scarlette,  Richard  Smithe  et  mei  Johannes  Godard. 

Tertio  die  Decembris,  1597.  Emanauit  commissio  Thome  Partridge  filio  dicti  defuncti  ad 
administrand  bona,  &c.  P.C.C.  Ill  Cobham. 

W2 


164 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


•partrfoflf  of  Jftnfiorougl;. 


Robert  Partridge  of  Finborough,  co.  Suff. 
wife  was  a  widow  at  the  date  of  her  burial 
died,  therefore,  before  25  Dec.  1558. 


His=i=Margaret,  da.  of  .  .  .  Nunn  of  Sprowston,  co.  Norf.  [Inf.  alia.,  the  Visitation 


he 


pedigree  gives  Sproughton,  co.  SufE.,  most  probably  an  error  for  Sprowston, 
co.  Norf.]  Bur.  (“  widow  ”)  24  Dec.  1558  at  Gl  Fiuborough,  co.  Suff. 


Thomas  Partridge ;  John 
called  “  the  elder  ”  Rooke 
in  1586.  Named  in  of  Bad- 
his  brother’s  will, 10  ing- 
Ap.  1594.  Bur.  28  ham ; 
Oct.  1594  at  G*  Fin.  will 
His  wife,  Beatrice,  dat.  14 
bur.  9  Dec.  1586  at  Oct. 

Gl  Finborough.  1550. 


;(1)  Ursula,  da.  of  .  .  .  Ive  of  (2) 
Laxfield,  co.  Suff . ;  prov.  her 
1st  husb.’s  will  29  Oct.  1550 
(Ax-chd.  Suff.).  Named  in 
her  2nd  husband’s  will, 1594. 

[Nich.Iveof  Laxfield;  will 
dat.  18  June  1535,  mentions 
da8 * *  Eleanor  &  Eliz.  &  other 
child11,  prov.  22  Sept.  1535 
by  wid.  Joan  (Archd. Suff.).] 


Dorothy  Alice  Anne  Rooke,  wife  of  William 

Rooke,  eldest  Rooke,  Devereux  of  Bacton,  who  made 
daugr,  wife  of  youngest  will  (Arch.  Sudb.)  16  Jan.  1605, 
Henry  Richer  dau.,  mar.  proved  9  May  1606.  Peter 
of  Buxhall ;  Adlord  Devereux,  M.A.,  their  7th  son, 
named  with  Games  of  an  eminent  preacher,  became 
her  sisters,  G 1 *  Fin-  Rector  of  Rattlesden,  1614, 1  & 
1594,  in  Rob1,  borough  ;  was  Chaplain  to  George  Villiers, 
Partridge’s  unm.  14  1st  Duke  of  Buckingham. — 
will.  Oct.  1550.  Candler. 


:(2)  Robert  Partridge  of  Gl  Finborough,  gent.,  eldest  s.  &  h.  His  name 

appears  in  list  of  Suff.  Freeholders,  A.D.  1561  (Lansd.  MS  ,5).  27  Mar. 

6  Eliz.  (1564),  he  was  party  to  an  agreement  with  Jas  Nun ne  of  Beeston, 

co.  Norf.,  re  sale  of  lands  at  Beeston  (S.  Andrew),  Crostwick,  Spixworth, 

&  Sprowston,  lately  bel.  to  Simon  Nunne,  father  of  James  (see  Turner  & 
Coxe’s  “  Cal.  of  Charters  &  Rolls  preserved  in  the  Bodl.  Lib.,”  p.  410; 

Parkin’s  Blomefield’s  “  Norf.,”  x,  404  ;  &  Page’s  “  Suff.,”  p.  363).  13  Sept- 

21  Eliz.  (1579), he  was  admitted  to  lands  in  manor  of  Colston  Hall,Bading- 

ham, co.  Suff.  (see  “  Partridge”  in  Add.  MS.  19,144).  Will  (Rob.  P.  the 

elder  of  Gfc  Fin.,  Suff.,  gent.)  dat.  10  Ap.  1594 ;  desires  to  be  bur.  in  G*  Fin. 

church,  but,  apparently,  was  not ;  proved  3  Dec.  1597  by  ex’or  (P.C.C.,. 
Ill  Cobham). 


2.  Agnes  Partridge,  bapt.  at  Bad- 
ingham  14  Feb.  155$,  mar.  at 
Buxhall  28  July  1577  John  Salter, 
after  of  Long  Stratton  in  Norfolk. 
See  Devereux  pedigree,  Harl.  MS. 
6071  Tanner  MS.  180,  Candler’s 
MSS. 


1.  Mary  Partridge, 
bapt.  Badingham 
7  Aug.  1552  ;  wife 
of  Edward  Girling 
in  1594,  and  so 
described  in  her 
father’s  ■null. 


Margaret 
Partridge,, 
bapt.  at 
Gl  Fin- 
boro’  17 
May  1562. 


1  R.  of  Buxhall  1644.  His  da.  Anne  m.  1625  at  Rattlesden  the 
Suff.  genealogist  Matthias  Candler,  R.  of  Coddenham  1629 — 1663. 


Thomas  Partridge  of  Gb  Fin.,=pDorothy  Timperley  of  G1  Fin.,  4th  da.  Jeffrey  Cuckoe.=(l)  Rose.  At  date  of  her  (2)=f  Robert  Partridge  of 

of  Tho.  T.  of  Hintlesham  Hall,  esq.,  Had  mess.,  &c.,  2Qj  marr.  she  was  Gl  Fin.,  2ad  s.  Was 

by  Audrey,  his  wife,  da.  &  co-h.  of  Sir  at  Earl’s  Colne,  Rose  Cuckoe  of  Col-  admitted,  28  Eliz. 

Nich.  Hare,  Master  of  the  Bequests,  co.  Essex,  wh.  Chester,  wid.  Marr.  (1585-6),  to  lands  at 

Marr.  lie.  dat.  20  Jan.  157$  (Bury  S.  he  left  by  will  to  lie.  dat.  15  Nov.  1585  Earl’s  Colne  (Chan- 

Ed.,  vol.  i,  fol.  2).  Named  as  “  my  Rose  his  wife.  (Bury  S.  Ed.,  vol.  i,  eery  Proc.,  Cha.  I,, 

daughter  Partriche  ”  in  her  father’s  fo.  70).  pp.  22,  48). 

will,  1594  (P.C.O.,  60  Dixey). 


s.  &  h.  His  father’sex’or  1594. 
His  father  left  him  lands  at 
Beeston,  Sprowston,  Spix¬ 
worth,  &  Crostwick,  co.  Norf., 
&  Dennington,  co.  Suff. 
Proved  his  father’s  will,  1597. 


r~r 


Margaret  Partridge,  Thomasine  Part- 
bap.  at  Gl  Fin.  20  ridge,  bap.  at  Gk 
Nov.  1578.  Fin.  8  May  1581. 


Nicholas,  bap.  at  G4 * & * 
Fin.  19  Nov.  1579. 


Katherine,  bap.  at 
G*  Fin  .5  Dec.  1582. 


Ursula  Part¬ 
ridge,  bap. 
24  Sep.,  bur. 
23  Dec.,  158 
at  G*  Fin. 


Francis  Partridge, 
bap.  29  Jan.  158f 
at  Gl  Fin. ;  named 
in  his  grandfa¬ 
ther’s  will,  1594. 


Robert  Partridge  &  Hannah  his  wife  v.  Rich.=Hannahk 
Harlakenden,  esq.,  &  Edw.  Ellistone,  gent.,  re  living 
lands  at  Earl’s  Colne,  co.  Essex,  1646  (Chan-  1646. 
eery  Proc.,  Cha.  I,  pp.  22,  48).  [Ed.  Elliston 
m.  Mehetabell,  da.  of  Tho.  &  Dorothy  Harlak¬ 
enden.] 


Some  seventeenth  century  pedigrees  describe  the  Partridges  as  of  Finborough  Hall.  In  his  will,  dated  10  Ap.  1594,  Robert 
P.  is  styled  of  G’-  Finborough,  and  the  last  entry  of  the  name  in  that  parish  register  is  the  burial  of  his  brother  Thomas  P. 
on  28  Oct.  1594.  Robert  P.’s  will  was  proved  3  Dec.  1597.  The  Partridges  seem  to  have  left  Finborough  between  1594  and 
1597,  and  were  succeeded  there  by  the  Gilberts.  The  lordship  was  granted  by  Q.  Eliz.  to  Hen.  G.  of  London,  goldsmith, 
whose  son  Sir  John  G.  of  Finb.  Hall  was  “bur  at  Finborough  by  his  father”  (Metcalfe,  202).  It  is  more  probable, 
however,  that  the  Partridges  lived  at  Boy  ton  Hall  in  Finborough,  a  manor  which  their  kinsmen,  the  Tymperleys,  purchased 
of  tho  Ives  and  Colbys  in  1481.  See  footnote  to  the  Partridge  pedigree,  p.  162. 

Tho  following  is  taken  from  the  pedigree  of  Devereux  of  Bacton  in  the  Candler  MSS.  (Harl.  MS.  6071,  pp.  376-377’ 
collated  with  Tanner  MS.  180,  pp.  52-53),  “  Wm.  Devereux  of  Bacton  (married)  Anne  Rooke  daughter  and  one  of  the  coheirs 
of  ...  .  Rooke  of  Badingham.  Dorothie  her  sister,  the  eldest,  (married)  ....  Richer.  Her  younger  sister  married  .... 
Games.  A  sister  of  the  liaulfe  blood,  daughter  of  their  mother  and  of  her  2d  husband,  Robt.  Pattrick,  married  .... 
Salter  of  Long  Stratton  in  Norff.  whose  3  sonnes  live  in  Long  Stratton.  Penelope,  one  of  his  (Salter’s)  daughters,  married 
.  .  .  .  Whiting  of  Ipswich.  Another  married  ....  Smith,  a  younger  brother  of  Brian  Smith  of  Cavendish.”  Some  of  the 
sons  of  William  Devereux  and  Anne  Rooke  fought  in  the  “  low  cuntry  warres,”  and  died  there.  And  one,  as  stated  above, 
Peter  Devereux,  Rector  of  Rattlesden,  became  “  Chaplain  in  Ordinary  to  George  Villiers  ye  1st  Duke  of  Buckingham.”  He 
married  and  had  sons  who  took  orders,  and  daughters  who  married  clergymen,  one  of  whom  was  Matthias  Candler,  the 
genealogical  Vicar  of  Coddenham. 


JJartrttigt  of  S>i)c![n>  l)all. 


Will  of  ®Jjontas  faring,  1625. 

The  8  december  1625  and  in  the  ffirst  yeare  of  the  Raigne  of  our  sounge  Lord  Kinge 

Charles  of  England,  &o.  I  Thomas  Partridge  of  Capell  in  the  Countye  of  Suff.  yeoman  &c. 

ffirst  and  principallye  I  doe  Comend  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  God  that  gaue  [it]  assuredlye 
beleeueinge  throughe  the  meritts  and  passion  of  Jesus  Christ  my  Sauior  to  haue  pdon  and 
fforgiuenesse  of  my  sinnes.  I  giue  to  Richard  Partridge  my  sonne  all  my  lands  and  ten[emen]ts 
in  Capell,  he  to  pay  XI 50  to  Susan  Partridge  my  daughter  at  the  age  of  one  and  Twentye. 
To  Tho.  Partridge  my  sonne,  my  messuage  called  Cookes  [in  Higham],  And  one  meadowe  called  Balls 
acre  in  Stoake  next  Neyland.  To  Robert  Partridge  my  sonne  my  messuage  called  Roodeinges, 
my  medowe  lyeinge  in  Netherhall  meddowe  in  Stoke  next  Neylande,  and  three  acres  in  Stoake 
wh  I  hold  of  the  manner  of  Netherhall ;  he  to  pay  ffortye  shillings  yearelye  to  Alice  my  wife 
and  ffower  pounds  yearlye  to  the  wife  of  Thomas  Partridge  my  sonne  deceased  vntill  her  daughter 
Marye  Partridge  be  of  full  age ;  and  also  to  paye  vnto  her  two  daughters  Elizabeth  and  Marye 

and  to  Tamisin  Partridge  my  sonne  Daniell’s  daughter  Twentye  pound  a  peece  at  the  age  of 

one  and  Twentye.  To  the  afforesaid  Richard  Partridge  my  messuage  in  Higham  wch  I  purchased 
of  Thomas  Wakelin  gent.,  he  to  pay  to  Alice  my  wife  ffortye  shillings  yearelie  and  Ten 
pounds  yearelie  to  Daniell  Partridge  my  sonne.  I  giue  to  Elizabeth  Partridge  my  daughter  ffyue 
shillinges,  ....  to  Marye  Partridge  my  daughter  ffyue  shillinges,  ....  to  the  wife  of  John 
Manwood  [of  Ipswich]  my  Cossen  late  deceased  X5,  to  Martha  Adams  my  Cossen  £5,  to  Mary 
Gardiner  her  sister  £5,  to  Phemima  Kettle  my  Cossen  £5,  to  the  poore  of  Higlni?  20/-,  to  the 
poore  of  Capill  20/-.  The  moueables  wthin  the  house  shalbe  equallye  devyded  Amonge  Richard 
Partridge,  Thomas  Partridge  and  Robert  Partridge  my  sonnes  and  Susan  Partridge  my  daughter. 
The  residue  unbequeathed  I  giue  to  Richard  Partridge  my  sonne,  Prouided  that  he  allowe  his 
brother  Thomas  Partridge  sufficient  mayntenance  till  he  haue  commenced  mr  of  Arts.  Son  Richard 
to  be  executor.  This,  the  second  will  of  Thomas  Partridge,  was  proved  17  July  1627  by  Richard 
Pattridge.  Archd.  Suff,  year  1627-28,  fo.  100. 

Robert  Partridge,  youngest  son  of  the  testator,  lived  at  Roodings  in  Stoke,  then  at  Higham, 
and  finally  at  Holton  S.  Mary  Hall.  In  a  deed  dated  14  Jan.  163£,  now  in  the  possession  of 
Charles  Partridge  of  Stowmarket,  he  is  styled  “  Robarte  Partridge  of  Stoake  by  Nayland  yeoman.” 
Thomas  Rolfe’s  will,  dated  3  Nov.  1653  (original  probate,  endorsed  “  Rolfes  will  for  Goodman 
Pattridge,”  also  penes  C.P.),  devises  “to  Thomas  Partridge  my  Godsonn  the  sonne  of  Ro  :  Patteridge 
of  Holton  Hall  my  Little  Roane  mare  Colt  with  the  ball  face,  And  I  give  to  my  Ex :  and 
Super :  hereafter  named  my  bay  Colt  in  the  meadowe  I  make  Ro :  Patteridge  my 

Executor”  .  .  .  Richard  Patteridge  of  Capell  to  be  a  supervisor.  In  another  deed  penes  C.P., 
dated  12  Nov.  1672,  he  is  styled  Robert  Pattridge  the  elder  of  Holton,  gent.,  and  his  burial-entry 
in  Holton  register  describes  him  as  “Gen:”  in  1676.  He  bequeathed  his  “Deske  in  my  Chamber 
called  the  best  Chamber”  to  his  son  Robert.  It  now  belongs  to  Miss  Partridge  of  Hadleigh. 


166 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Jattt  Jltann,  1679. 

.  .  .  Jane  Mann  of  Ipswch,  Suff.,  Singlewoman  ...  I  Giue  <fc  Bequeath  to  my  Neece 

Jane  Mann  daughter  of  my  Brother  Thomas  Mann  late  of  Yoxford  deceased  £100  ...  to  mv 

Nephewes  the  Sonnes  of  my  said  Brother  Thomas  (That  is  to  say)  to  John,  Thomas,  Edward, 
William  &  Jeoffery,  £5  apeece,  And  to  my  Neeces  the  daughters  of  my  said  Brother  Thomas 
■(That  is  to  say)  To  Elizabeth  £15,  To  .Dorothy  £10,  To  Mary,  Margaret  &  Martha  £5  apeece 
.  .  .  to  my  Neece  Elizabeth  the  daughter  of  my  Brother  Edward  Mann  of  Ipswcl1  Esquire 
£10 ;  And  to  my  Neeces  Hannah  &  Ellen  the  daughters  of  my  said  Brother  Edward  £5  apeece 
...  to  my  Brother  in  Law  Daniel  Partridge  of  Capell  £5,  And  to  my  Sister  Mary  his  wife 

£10 ;  And  to  Daniel  «fe  Mary  the  Children  of  my  said  Brother  &  Sister  Partridge  £10  apeece 

...  to  my  Sister  Mann  of  Yoxford,  To  my  said  Brother  Edward  Mann  Esquire,  And  to  my 
Sister  his  wife  20/-  apeece  to  buy  them  Rings ;  To  Madam  Mary  Brooke  of  Yoxford,  Mr 
Nathaniel  Parkehurst,  Mr  Roger  Young,  Mr  Philip  Candler,  MrU  Elianor  Stockton,  20/-  apeece 
to  buy  them  Rings ;  to  Mr  John  Fairfax  of  Barking  £5,  And  to  Elizabeth  his  wife  20/-  to 
buy  a  Ring;  To  Mr  Tobias  Legg  40/-;  To  Mr  Benjamin  Brunning  40/-;  To  Mr  James  Waller 
of  Rattlesden  40/- ;  To  my  Cozen  Manning  of  Walpoole  widow  20/- ;  To  my  Cozen  Strowger, 

Cozen  Focard,  Cozen  Sarah  Manning  20/-  apeece;  To  my  Cozen  Samuel  Manning  40/-;  To  my 

Cozen  Elizabeth  Cole  20/- ;  To  Mris  Elizabeth  Asty  20/- ;  To  Goodwife  Broome  of  Ipswch  where 
I  lodge  40/-;  Item  I  giue  to  my  foresaid  Sister  Partridge  All  my  wearing  Appell  Woollen  & 
Linnen  ...  I  Doe  Nominate  and  appoint  my  said  Brother  Edward  Mann  of  Ipswch  Esqj  : 
to  be  Executor  .  .  .  Dated  21  June  1679.  Proved  29  June  1681  by  Elizabeth  Mann,  widow, 
Edward  Mann,  Armiger,  the  executor,  having  died  before  probate. 

Archd.  Suff.,  book  King,  1681-84,  fo.  50a — 51a. 

[In  167a  Daniel,  fourth  son  of  Rob.  Partridge  of  Holton  S.  Mary  Hall,  m.  Mary,  dau. 

of  the  late  Edward  Mann  of  Ipswich,  esq.  Edward  Mann  seems  to  have  been  married  no  fewer 

than  five  times  : 

(1)  His  first  wife  was  Eliz.,  dau.  of  Barthw  Brooke  of  Worlingworth  and  Southolt,  by 

Eliz.,  dau.  of  Sir  Rafe  Wiseman  ( see  Metcalfe,  118).  By  her  he  had  two  childQ 

bapt.  at  S.  Mary-at-the-Quay  church — Edward  in  1 6 1 S,  and  Eliz.  in  1620.  Edward 

(the  son)  was  a  Counsellor-at-law,  and  was  probably  the  “  Mr.  Mann,”  Recorder  of 
Ipswich,  who  entertained  the  diarist  Evelyn,  perhaps  at  Ashbocking,  on  10  Sept. 

1677.  He  d.  in  1681,  and  is  commemorated  by  an  heraldic  slab  in  S.  Nicholas’ 

church,  Ipswich,  displaying  Mann  impaling  Nicolson  and  Withe. 

(2)  His  second  wife  was  Dorothy,  dau.  of  Anth.  Mannock  of  Stoke-by-Nayland,  who, 

thro  his  mother  Dionisia  Roberts,  was  descended  thro’  the  FitzAlans  from  the 
Plantagenet  kings  of  England.  By  her  he  had  two  child11  bapt.  at  S.  Mary-Quay — 
Thomas  in  1627,  and  Jane  on  26  June  1628.  Their  mother  d.  16  Nov.  1629  ( see 
slab  in  S.  Mary-at-Stoke  church).  Jane,  whose  will  is  printed  above,  d.  unm.,  and 
was  bur.  at  S.  Mary-Quay  in  1679.  Thomas  Mann  was  of  the  Inner  Temple, 

Usher  of  the  Rolls,  and  of  Yoxford,  Suff.  He  d.  in  1669,  his  sisters  Jane  Mann 

and  Mary  Mann  being  among  his  devisees.  A  hatchment  displaying  Mann  impaling 
Alston  hangs  in  Yoxford  church.  His  grandson,  Rob.  Mann  of  Linton,  Kent,  was 
father  of  Sir  Horatio  Mann,  K.C.B.,  who  was  created  a  baronet  in  1775.  His 


PARTRIDGE  OF  SHELLEY  HALL. 


167 


nephew  Sir  Horatio  Mann,  M.P.,  was  succeeded  at  Linton  Place  in  1814  by  his 
nephew  James  Cornwallis,  fifth  Earl  of  Cornwallis,  who  assumed  the  surname  of 
Mann.  ( See  Burke’s  Extinct  Baronetcies.) 

(3)  On  27  July  1634,  “Katherine,  the  dau.  of  Edward  Man”  was  bapt.  at  S.  Mary-Quay. 

Her  mother  (name  unknown)  was  probably  Edward  Mann’s  third  wife. 

(4)  In  1644,  Arthur  Hopton  of  London,  gent.,  mentioned  in  his  will  his  cousin  Eliz.  Mann, 

wife  of  Edward  M.  of  Ipswich.  She  was  probably  his  fourth  wife,  and  mother  of 
his  dau.  Mary,  wife  of  Ban.  Partridge  of  Holton  (bapt.  1642). 

(5)  On  7  Sept.  1664,  a  licence  was  granted  (Archd.  Suff.)  for  a  marriage  at  Raydon 

between  Edw.  Mann  sen.  of  Ipswich,  gent,  and  widower,  and  Susanna  Day  of 
Holton ,  wid.  She  was  probably  his  fifth  wife. 

On  24  Feb.  167^  this  much  married  man  (Edward  Mann  of  Ipswich,  the  elder,  esq.) 
made  his  will,  desiring  to  be  buried  in  S.  Mary-Quay  church.  He  mentioned  his  three 
surviving  child11  (Tho.  had  d.  in  1669) — Jane  Mann,  Mary  Mann,  and  Edward  Mann.  On 
28  Feb.  167^,  “Mr.  Edward  Man  the  elder”  was  bur.  at  S.  Mary-Quay.  A  fortnight  later, 
15  March,  a  licence  was  granted  (Archd.  Suff.)  for  a  marriage  at  S.  Clement’s  church  between 
Dan.  Pattridge  of  Holton,  “  generosus,”  and  “  Mrs.  ”  Mary  Man  of  Ipswich,  and  they  wero 
married  there  on  23  March,  but  the  bride’s  name  was  incorrectly  entered  as  “Ann.”  In  1679, 
they  and  their  child3,  Daniel  and  Mary,  were  devisees  in  Jane  Mann’s  will  ( see  above).  Daniel, 
the  son,  was  progenitor  of  the  Partridges  of  Shelley  Hall. 


The  ten  asterisks  in  following  pedigree  of  Partridge  of  Shelley  Hall  indicate  that  the 
original  probates  are  in  possession  of  Charles  Partridge  of  Stow  market,  who  has  many  other 
family  deeds,  etc.,  dating  from  163f. 

The  pedigree  begins  with  Tho.  P.  of  Higham,  b.  circa  1560.  The  earliest  Partridge  entry 
in  the  Higham  register  is  1585,  when  his  eldest  s.  was  bapt.  He  (the  father)  was  perhaps 
brother  of  the  John  P.  who  m.  Gresell  Manhoode  at  Higham  6  June  1585.  They  had  s.  Rob. 
bapt.  Stratford  S.  Mary  1589,  and  child3  bapt.  Higham  1591-1 60| — Tho.,  Wm,  Eliz.,  Martha, 
Anth.  (bur.  there  1610).  Tho.  Browning  and  Gysell  Partrich  were  m.  Higham  159f,  Nich.  P. 
and  Marg1  Balls  1600,  and  Nich.  P.  and  Mary  Welles  1 6  First  mention  of  Partridge  under 
Higham  in  Suff.  Subsidy  Rolls  1  Ed.  VI  to  45  Eliz.  is  in  1597. 


Tho.  P.  of  Shelley,  4  s.  of  Rob.  P.  of  Holton  Hall,  was  of  Holton  when  he  m.  Marg‘ 
Garrad  there  1668,  and  was  bur.  there  fm  Shelley  11  May  1681.  His  wid.  prov.  his  will 
Arch  Suff.  1  Ap.  1682,  probate  penes  Mrs.  Hester  Payn,  da.  of  late  Hen.  Partridge  of  Shelley 
Dairy.  They  had  3  sons:  (1)  Rob.,  bur.  (s.  of  Tho.  P.  of  Whatfield)  at  Holton  4  Aug.  1674;. 
(3)  Tho.,  dev.  in  father’s  will,  bur.  (of  Stoke,  s.  of  Tho.  P.  late  of  Shelley)  21  Sept.  1682  at 
Holton;  (2)  Rob.,  dev.  in  father’s  will,  afterwards  of  Nayland,  bur.  there  1751,  adm’on  1752 
Arch.  Sudb.  to  da.  Mary  Quarles,  wife  of  Francis  Q.  By  Mary  his  wife,  bur.  there  1752,  he  had 
s.  Rob.  bapt.  and  bur.  there  1702,  and  da.  Mary,  m.  Higham  1740  to  Fra.  Quarles  of  Nayland. 
Deeds  penes  George  Partridge  of  Layham  Waterhouse  show  that  in  1755  Francis  Quarles  of 
Nayland,  surgeon,  and  Mary  his  Avife  owned  the  lands  at  Raydon,  Layham,  and  Shelley,  named 
in  will  of  Thomas  Partridge  of  Shelley,  1680.  Mary  Quarles  was  buried  at  Nayland  in  1757 
and  Francis  Quarles,  surgeon,  in  1770. 


$artrfrfr  of 


Eliz. ;  bur.=p(l)  Tho.  Partridge  of  Higham,  afterwards  of  Capel  S.  Mary,  yeoman  ;  b.  c.  1560  ;  bought  lands  Stoke-by-Nayland  1600  (2) 


Higham 
1599. 


(deed  penes  C.P.),  and  Capel  1601 — Pines.  Made 2  wills,1  Archd.  Suff.,  19  May  1624  and8  Dec.  1625,  lands  Capel, 
Higham,  Stoke;  bur.  Capel  1627  ;  inq.  p.m.  Ipsw.  14  Sept.  1627  (Esch.  3  Car.,  2,  75),  and  Bury  l  Sept.  1629  (Harl. 
MS.  756,  p.  298).  See  East  Anglian  Notes  Queries,  iv,  364 ;  v,  116  ;  vii,  12 ;  ix,  90,  142,  238,  363. 


Tho.  P. ;  bap.=j=Anne  ; 


Higham  1585; 
bur.  Stoke 
1623. 


m.  (2) 

John 

Hankin. 


Dan.  P. ;  dev. 
in  father’s 
wills;  had  da. 
Thomasine. 


Mary  P.;  m. 
Capel  1617 
John  Brad- 
street  of  C. 


John  &  Wnl; 
bap.  Higham ; 
not  ment.  in 
father’s  wills. 


Anna,  da.  and  h.=p(l )  Ric.  P. of  Capel, yeoman ;  bap.  Higham  (2)  = 


of  Wm  Jorden, 
eldest  s.  of  Wnl 
J.  of  Bentley. 


1601;  of  Bentley  1645  (Brit.  Mus.  tract 
“4105.  a.”) ;  bur.  Capel  1672 ;  will  Arch. 
Suff.,  lands  Capel,  Higham,  Stoke. 


Tho.P.; 

bap. 

Stoke 

ici«  . 
-*-0TT  i 

bur. 

there 

1624. 


Eliz.  Mary 
P. ;  P. ;  inq. 
her  p.m. 
sist.  1637, 
Mary’s  Miscell. 
heir  Esch. 
1637.  xiv,  14. 


3.  Tho.  P.  of=pEliz. 


E.Bergholt, 
gent. ;  bap. 
Capel  1635; 
bur.  E.  B. 
1704;  will 
Arch.  Suff. 


Tren- 
ham  ; 
m. 

Capel 

1660. 


- 1 — i - 

l.  Ric.p.; 
d.  unm. 

Susan  P.; 

m.  Capel 
1667  John 
Rivers. 


2.  Rob.  P.; 
bap.  Capel 
1633;  ob. 
vit.  pat. 
leaving  is¬ 
sue  Rob., 
Ric.,  Ann. 


4.  John  P.  of  Stoke, 
yeoman  ;  bur.  1686 ; 
issue:  Mary,  John, 
Thd.,  Eliz.,  Bridget, 
Ric.  ;  will  Arch. 
Sudb.,  lands  Stoke, 
Assington,  Capel. 


i - 

1.  John  P.  of- 
Stoke,  yeoman; 
bap. there  1634; 
bur. there  1 696; 
will  Arch.  Sud., 
lands  Stoke, 
Hadleigh. 


: Judith  ;  Mary,  da.  of  — 
will  pr.  Edw.  Mann  of 
Archd.  Ipsw., esq.  (will 
Sudb.  Arch. Suff.);  m. 
1701.  S.  Clem., Ipsw., 
1671  ;  bur. 
Holton  169$. 


John  P. 

=  Eliz.  Partridge;  m. 

1.  Rob.=pMercy, 

Judith 

John  P.  of 

Tho.  P.; 

ArthurP. 

Dan.  P.,  successively  of  E.=j=Eliz.Prat 

of  E. 

Brantham  1699 ;  will 

P.  of 

da.  of 

P. ;  bap. 

Stoke ;  m. 

dev.  in 

of  Stoke ; 

Berg.,  Langham  in  Ess.,  W. 

of  E. 

Berg., 

pr.  Arch.  Suff.  174f, 

Hoi- 

Ric. 

Stoke 

there  1694 

father’s 

bap. 

Bergholt  in  Ess.,  &  Layham, 

Berg.;  m. 

yeo- 

property  betw.  John 

ton, 

Smith 

166$; 

El.  Town- 

will. 

Higham 

yeoman,  only  s. ;  bap.  Holton 

Brant- 

man 

Wellum  s.  of  Bridg- 

etc., 

ofHigh- 

m.  1699 

es ;  15 

— 

1673; 

167 a  ;  dev.of  Jane  Mann  1679; 

ham 

ob.  S.p. ; 

et  Partridge,  Eliz. 

yeo- 

am, 

Wm 

child11 

Eliz.  P.; 

d.  1763 

will  1734;  d.  17|$  aged  68, 

1700; 

adm’on 

wife  of  John  Chis- 

man ; 

gent. ; 

Beckett 

bap.  there 

m.  Lit. 

aged 

m.i.  W.  Berg.  At  Wyncoll’s 

bur. 

1730 

nail  of  Capel,  and 

bur. 

m. 

of  Pol- 

169J-1717, 

Wenham 

“  92,” 

Farm,  Layham,  on  white 
pargeting  over  doorway:  1723 

Layham 

Arch. 

Eliz.  Trenham  da.  of 

there 

Capel 

stead. 

niany  d. 

G.  Parker, 

m.i. 

1756. 

Suff. 

r 

Tho.  T. 

1698. 

TJ 

1687. 

r 

young. 

Copdock. 

Stoke. 

D.P. 

Tho.  P.  of  Holton;  bap.=f*Hannah  7  child11 ;  bap. 
E.  Berg.  1695;  dev.  in  Pratt  ;  Higham,  E. 

will  of  father’s  first-  m.  Hoi-  Berg.,  Hol- 

cousin  Ric.  P.  of  tonl72§;  ton;  d. 

Stratfd  1740  ;  bur.  bur.  young. 

Holton  1769.  1774. 


Tho.  P.  of  Layham,  afterwards  of  Shelley  Dairy,  yeo¬ 
man,  only  s. ;  bap.  E.  Berg.  1701 ;  named  in  wills  of  fa¬ 
ther’s  first-cousins  Aid.  and  Ric.  P.  of  Stratfd,  1736  and 
1740 ;  d.  Shelley  1783  aged  82  ;  bur.  Layham  ;  will  Norw. 
Consist.,  lands  Stoke,  Assington,  Wiston,  Layham. 


:Margl,  da.  of  Sam.  Strand 
of  Polstead,  yeoman ;  bap. 
Stoke  1702 ;  dev.  in  fa¬ 
ther’s  will,  pr.  1739  Arch. 
Sudb. ;  bur.  Layham  1778, 
m.i.  there. 


l - 

Ric.  P.  of  Fordham,  farmer,  fm 
formerly  of  Stratfd,  only  s. ;  bap.  Holton 
1723  ;  dev.  in  wills  of  grandf.’s  first-cousins 
Aid.  and  Ric.  P.  of  StratfJ,  1736  &  1740 ;  d. 
1784  aged  60,  m.i.  Fordham ;  adm’on 
Comm.  Lon.,  E.  &  H. 


1769,=j= Alice ;  d. 
1788  aged 
59,  m.i. 
Fordham ; 
will  Comm. 
Lon.,  E.  & 
H. 


I - 

1.  Dan.  P.  of  Wiston,  yeo-= 
man  ;  bap.  Polstead  1726;  d. 
1803  aged  77,  m.i.  Stoke ; 
will  Arch.  Sudb.,  lands  Wee- 
ley  in  Ess.,  Wiston,  Assing¬ 
ton,  Nay  land,  Stoke. 


I 

tridges  of  Col- 
ster,  surgeons,  & 
Fordham,  W. 
gholt,  etc.,  far- 
's,etc.  (See “An 
ex  Covey  ”  in 
ex  Review  of 


-Anne  Stew¬ 
ard,  Assing¬ 
ton  ;  m.  Wis¬ 
ton  1758;  bur. 
Assington 
1796  aged 
67. 


3.  Alderman  P.;  bap. 
Layham  1728 ;  dev. 
in  wills  of  grandf., 
1734,  &  grandf.’s 

first-cous.  Aid.  P.  of 
Stratfd  1736  ;d.  1744, 
m.i.  Layham. 


4.  Ric.  P. ; 
bap.  Lay¬ 
ham  1731; 
d.  1744 
aged  12, 
m.i.  there. 


Ann  P. ;  bap.  Wiston 
1759 ;  m.  there  1779 
Step.  Lewis  of  Stoke ; 
adm’on  1836  Arch. 
Sudb.  (Had  grands. 
Wm  Partridge  Lewis 
of  Higham  and 
Stoke.) 


Dan.  P.  of 

Mary  P. ; 
bap. Wiston 

John  P.of  Wis- 

Rob.  P. ; 

Alder- 

1.  John  P.  of=pEliz.,  da.  of 

Wiston ; 

ton ;  bap.  there 

bap.  Wis- 

man  P. ; 

Shelley  Dairy, 

Tho.  Ansell 

bap.  Nay- 

1762  ;  m. 
there  1837 

1764  ;  ob.  s.p. ; 

ton  1766; 

bap. 

yeoman ;  bap. 
Shelley  1766  ;m. 

of  G1  Wen- 

land  1760; 

bur.  Assington 

d.  unm. ; 

Wiston 

ham,  s.  of 

dj.  unm. ; 

John  Clark; 

1834  aged  69 ; 

bur.  Ass- 

1769; 

Gk  Wenham 

Rob.  A.  of 

bur.Assing- 

ob.s.p.;  bur. 

will  Arch. Sud., 

ington 

bur. 

1789 ;  d.  intes- 

Milden ;  d. 

ton  1813 

there  1844 

lands  Wiston, 

1806 

Assn 

tate  1837  aged 

1842  aged 

aged  52. 

aged  81. 

Stoke,  Ass’ton. 

aged  40. 

1770. 

71,  m.i.  Shelley. 

71,  m.i. 

Shelley. 

3.  Hen.  P.  of  Shel-=rPhoebe 


sons 

nnm. 

8 

da’. 


ley  Dairy, yeoman ; 
bap.  Shelley  1807 ; 
m.  there  1838  ;  d. 
Colch.  1884  aged 
76,  m.i.  Shelley.  > 


Chantry; 
d.  Little- 
hampton, 
Sussex, 
4896. 


5.  Edw.  P.  of  Water 
House,  Layham, 
yeoman  ;  m.  Tend- 
ring  1847  Susannah 
Thompson  ;  d.  1865, 
m.i.  Shelley.  ^ 


Ann=j=l.  Rob.  P.  successively  of  Ma- 


Els- 

den 

of 

Had¬ 

leigh. 


sons  Bridge  in  Raydon,  Over¬ 
bury  Hall  in  Layham,  &  Strat¬ 
ford  Lodge, yeoman;  bap. Shel¬ 
ley  1796 ;  m.  Hadleigh  1830 ;  d. 
1858  aged  62;  adm’on  P.C.C. 


Mary  Ansell 
P.;  bap. 1797; 

d.  unm.  1860 
aged  63, m.i. 
Shelley;  will* 
Arch.  Suff. 


Sarah,  da.=j=(l)  Rob.Elsden  (2)- 


of  Edw. 
Marven 
Syer ;  m. 
1860  ;  d. 
1878. 


sir 


P.  of  Wood- 
house,  Strat¬ 
ford,  yeo¬ 
man  ;  b. 
Raydon  1838. 


sy 


=Emily 

Reyn¬ 

olds 

of 

Stratd. 


Walter  Ar¬ 
cher  P.  of 
GlHenny& 
Lamarsh  ; 
d.  unm. 
1898. 


Fred.  P.  of 
Holbrook  & 
Wey  bread, 
now  in  Cana¬ 
da;  m.  A.  Eng¬ 
lish  ;  issue. 


2.  Charles  Tho.  P.of  Stowmar-= 
ket,  &  Sulley’s  Farm,  Raydon, 
yeoman,  formerly  of  Offton 
Place ;  b.  Aldham  Hall  1841 ; 
joined  1st  Y.B.S.R.  I860; 
farmed  Shelley  Hall,  1872-75. 


Hath.  Pleasanco,  da. 
of  Wm  Rob.  Hewitt 
of  The  Rookery, 
Stowmt,  nephew  of 
Ja8Waller  H.,  Lieut. 
1st  Foot. 


Charles  Partridge,  M.A.,  F.R.G.S.,  political  officer 
S.  Nigeria,  W.  Africa;  b.  Offton  Place;  Christ’s  Coll., 
Camb.,  1892-95 ;  joined  2nd  V.B.  Suff.  R.  Jan.  1900. 


Tho.  Leonard  P. ; 
joined2ndV.B.S.R. 
Jan.  1900. 


3.  Charles  P.  of  Shel¬ 
ley  Hall,  succd  fa¬ 
ther  there,  left  there 
1875;  d.  unm.  Shel¬ 
ley  House  1878  aged 
73  ;  will*  Arch.  Suff. 


- 1 — I - 

Cath.  Mary 
P.  of  Church 
House,  Had¬ 
leigh. 

3  das. 


Kathleen,  da.  &  h.  of=rWm  HampP.,  late  Lieut.  R.  Mon.  Mary 
Leasowe  Walker  of  |  Eng.;  served  S.Af.  1900,  Lieut.  Adel- 
Scarboro’ ;  m.  1901.  ^Montgomeryshire  Imp.  Yeom.  ine  P. 


Mjrtlry  S?aU. 


-Susan ;  (3)— Alice  Wilkin;  m.  Cape 
bur.  1625  ;  bur.  Stoke  1635 

Capel  adm’on  163 J  Arch.  Sud. 

1624.  to  John  Mason  her  son. 


1  Bequeathed  £5  to  (in  1st  will)  John  Manwood  of  Ipsw.  my  cousin,  Martha  Adams 
his  gist.,  Mary  Gardyner  his  sist.,  A  Phemima  (Peninnah)  Kettle  my  cousin,  A  (in  2nd 
will)  wife  of  John  Manwood  my  cousin  late  decd,  Martha  Adams  my  cous.,  Mary 
Gardiner  her  sist.,  A  Phemima  Kettle  my  cousin.  See  E.  A.  N.  Q.,  vii,  128. 


—Anne  Rev.  Tho.  P. ;  bap.  Higham  1603  :  adm.  Emman.  Col!.,  Camb., 

Wright ;  1619  ;  B.A.  1622  ;  ment.  in  father’s  wills  as  not  “  Commenced 

m.  Capel  Mr  of  Arte”  ;  M.A.  1626  :  licd  to  Layer-de-la-Ha.y,  Ess.,  1628  ; 

1659.  will  pr.  P.C.C.  1631.  Had  s.  Tho.  bap.  Stoke  1628. 


Rob.  P.  of  Holton  S.  Mary  Hall,  formerly  of  Rood-: 
ings,  Stoke,  yeoman ;  bap.  Higham  160 1 ;  bur. 
Holton  1676  ;  will*  P.C.C.,  lands  Stoke,  Stratford, 
Raydon,  Higham,  Holton. 


Eliz. 
Crispe 
of  Lit. 
Cornai'd. 


=p4.  Dan.  P.  of  E.  Berg- 
holt,  etc.,  yeoman ; 
bap.  Higham  1642 ; 
bur.  Holton  1686 ;  will 
pr.  Arch.  Suff.  1692  ; 
lands  G4  Cornard, 
Assington,  Holton. 
(Sist.  Eliz.  m.  Era8 
Richardson,  E.  Berg.) 

“l 


Sarah, da.  of  John1 
Alderman  of  Bel- 
stead,  by  Susan, 
da.  of  Rob.  Al- 
founder  of  Ded¬ 
ham,  by  Joan 
Jenney;  m.  Bel- 
stead  1672  ;  bur. 
1694. 


-(2)  2.  Rob.  P.  of  Stratford, 
yeoman  ;  bap.  Stoke 
163f;bur.  Stratfd  1713; 
will*  Arch.  Suff.,  lands 
Holton,  Stratfd,  G4 
Bricett,  Ringshall,  E. 
Berg.  (SeeF.  A.  Crisp’s 
Collect s  relating  to 
Crispe  Fain.,  i,  23.) 


(1)  = 


3.  Tho.  P.  of  Shel-=r Marg4 
ley,  yeoman  ;  bap.  Garrad, 
Higham  1640 ;  bur.  Ray- 
Holton  1681  ;  will  don ;  m. 
Arch.  Suff.,  lands  Holton 
Raydon,  Shelley,  1668. 
Layham.  4/ 

See  p.  167. 


Tho.: 
Bones ;  m. 
Stratford 
170°  ;  will 
(of  Tend- 
ring)  pr. 
1727 

Com.Lon., 
Ess.  &  H. 


=  (1)  Mary  P. 
bap.  Ca¬ 
pel  1674 ; 
dev.  of 
aunt  Jane 
Mann  of 
Ipsw. 1679; 
d.  173f ,  m. 
i.  Holton. 


(2)  - — Alderman 
P.of Strat¬ 
fd,  gent.,  2 
s. ;  bap. 
therel  67|; 
slab  Strat¬ 
fd  ch.; 
will*  Arch. 
Suff.  1737. 


Martha- 
Browne 
of  Ded¬ 
ham;  m. 
there 
1716  ;d. 
1749, 
slab  in 
S.  ch. 


(1)  John  P. 
Stratford 
gent.,  4  s.;  bap. 
there  168§  ;  d. 
1756  aged  73, 
slab  Stratfd 
ch.  ;  adm’on 
P.C.C.  to  Rob. 
P.  neph.  A  h. 


of  (2)=Mary 
Lewis, 
wid.; 
will 
(of  S. 
Nich., 
Col.) 
pr. 
1762. 


3.  Ric.  P. 
of  Strat¬ 
fd,  gent.; 
bap.  there 
1680 ;  d. 

1740,  m.i. 
there ;  will*  ther’s 
Arch. Suff.  will 
1675. 


Bob  ■ 
P.,  eld¬ 
est  S.  ; 
dev.  in 
grand- 
fa- 


5.  Rich.  P.  of  Holton  A  E. 
Berg.,  gent. ;  bap.  High¬ 
am  1651 ;  m.  Capel  1687 
Frances  Dade  of  Strat¬ 
ford  ;  d.  1727  aged  75, 
altar-tomb  Holton. 
Eliz.,  da.  &  h.,  m.  John 
Stubbin  of  Raydon, 
gent.,  of  fam.  of  S.  of 
Naughton,  &  had  issue. 

6.  Nath.  P.  of  Holton, 
etc.,  gent. ;  bap.  Holton 
1653  ;  bur.  there  174f 
aged  90.  Susanna,  da. 
&  h.,  m.  James  Wilder  of 
S.  Peter’s,  Ipsw.,  esq., 
and  ob.  s.p.  Her  sist. 
Marg4  d.  1721,  aged  27, 
altar-tomb  Holton. 


John  P.,  only 
s. ;  bap.  Bri¬ 
cett  1720 ;  d. 
1739,  slab 
Stratfd  ch., 


Rob. 


P.  of  Fordliam,  Ess.,  gent.  ;  b.  1700-1 ;  dev.  in  grandf.’s=pSarah 


quaint  lines. 

Of  ! 

5.  John  P. 

6.  Rob. 

of  Shelley; 

P.  ;  d. 

d.  unm. 

1749 

1762  aged 

aged  5, 

“  26,”  m.i. 

m.i. 

Layham. 

Laym. 

will,  17^5,  of  land  E.  Berg. ;  1727,  of  Clacton,  Ess. ;  dev.  in  wills 
of  uncles  Aid.  A  Ric.  P.  of  Stratfd,  1736  &  1740;  will  1775, 
Bricett,  Stratford,  Holton,  G4  Waltham, 
;  d.  1777  aged  76,  m.i.  Stratfd  ;  will*  P.C.C. 
1776,  “being  lame  by  a  Paralytic  Stroke.” 

r- 


lands  Ringshall, 
Messing,  Braxted 


Holden, 
Lang- 
ham  ;tn. 
there 
1742. 


John  P.  of  S.  Osyth,  Ess. ;  dev.  in  Mary  P. ; 
wills  of  grandf.,  17-jv,  &  uncle  wife  of 
Aid.,  1736 ;  ob.  s.p. ;  will  pr.  1737  Hen.  Si- 
Comm.  Lon.,  Ess.  &  Hert’s.,  by  mons  of 
Eliz.  Dines  late  Partridge  his  Fing- 
relict.  ringhoe. 


2.  Arthur  P.  of  Shelley  Hall,  formerly  of  Lay- 
ham,  yeoman  ;  bap.  Layham  1727 ;  suecd  John 
Spells  as  tenant  at  Shelley  Hall  1758;  m. 
Fordliam  1759 ;  bur.  Laym  1789  aged  61, 
m.i.  there ;  will*  P.C.C.,  lands  Stratford, 
Holton,  Raydon,  Hemingstone,  Barham, 
Coddenham,  Laym.  (Wife  was  3rd  cousin.) 


(1)  Sarah  P.,  el-  (2)=Ambrose 
der  da.  A  co-  Mayhew, 

h. ;  bap.  Ford-  Holton, 

ham  1 74)  ;  d.  yeoman  ; 

1822  aged  ob.  s.p. 

“  81,”  m.i.  1831 

Stratford.  aged  71. 


Mary  P.,  younger  da.  &  co-h. ; 
m.  (1)  1769,  Fordham,  Matt. 
Ellis  of  Feering,  who  d.  1772, 
(2)  Tho.  Blyth  of  New  House, 
Park  Laue,Langham ;  will  1801, 
lands  Messing,  G4  Braxted,  etc.; 
ob.  s.p.  1804,  aged  58. 


- 1 - 

Mary  P. ;  m. 
Shelley  1788 
Tho.  Wils- 
more  of  High¬ 
am,  after¬ 
wards  of  Pel- 
don;  ob.  s.p. 
Colch.  1831, 
m.i.  Shelley. 


2.  Rob  P.  of  Shelley  Hall,  gent.  ;=j=Mary,  da.  of  Tho.  Ansell, 


bap.  Shelley  1773  ;  m.  G4  Wen- 
ham  1795  ;  d.  Shelley  Hall  1854 
aged  81,  m.i.  Shelley ;  will*  P.C.C. 
lands  Stratford,  Raydon,  Peldon 
in  Ess.,  Hadleigh,  Layham, 
Holton,  Ringshall,  Offton,  Bri¬ 
cett,  Higham.  Corp1  6th  Troop 
Loyal  Suff.  Yeomanry  Cavalry. 


- 1 - 

2.  Tho.  P.  of  Aldhaim 
Hall,  formerly  of  Chat- 
tisham  Place,  yeoman ; 
bap.  Shelley  1800 ;  m. 
there  1827  ;  d.  Aldham 
Hall  1875;  will  P.C.C. 


by  Eliz.,  da.  of  John 
Kemball  of  Monks-Eleigh 
(fam.  now  represented 
by  Gen.  Sir  A.  B.  Kem¬ 
ball,  K.C.B.,  K.C.S.I. — 
8.M.F.,  i,  287);  d.  1855 
aged  82,  m.i.  Shelley. 


4.  Dan.  P.  of  Lay-= 
ham,  etc.,  yeoman ; 
b.  1783 ;  d.  Bury 
1830.  (His  only  s. 
who  attained  man¬ 
hood,  Lionel  Bloss 
P.,  ob.  s.p.  1882, 
aged  69,  m.i.  Bury  ; 
will  Arch.  Sud.) 


Alary 

Bloss. 


3.  James  P.-T=-Eliz.,  sist.  of  Sir 


Eliz.  Ellen1 
P. ;  b.  Chat- 
tisham 
Place  ;  d. 
1874,  m.i. 
Hadleigh. 


-Wm  Bacon  of  Friars 
Hall , Hadleigh, whose 
mother  was  d.  A  h. 
of  Rev.  R.  Pritchett, 
B.D.,  R.  of  Layham  ; 
,m.  Aldham  1857. 


:Cath.,  da.  of  Rob.  Sheldrake 
of  Hadleigh,  by  Cath.,  da.  of 
Tho.  Sheldrake  of  Wetlier- 
ingsettHall ;  d.  lS44aged40. 
Her  sist.  Judith  was  mother 
of  Judge  Philbrick,  K.C. 

T 


4.  John  P.  of  Wood-=r  Jane  Bridges,  da.  of 
house  A  Stratfd  Lodge, 
yeoman ;  m.  Stratfd 
1846  ;  d.  1879  aged  67, 
mural  brass  S.  church  ; 
will  Arch.  Suff. 


Edw.  Cook  of  Hol¬ 
ton  Hall,  by  Ann, 
sist.  of  Thomas 
Nunn,  M.A.,  R.  of 
Claydon  ;  d.  1892. 


Eliza  P.  of 
Shelley 
Hall, after 
of  S. 
House ;  d 


of'Stratford 
&  Holton, 
yeoman  ; 
bap.  Shel¬ 
ley  1775;  d. 
1859  aged 
83.  (See 
next  p.) 

i — 1 

Wm  P 
House, 
only  s. 
Bevan 


Joseph  Bailey, 
bar4,  M.P.,  of 
Glanusk  Park, 
co.  Brecon, 
grandf.  of  Lord 
Glanusk ;  d.  1832, 
aged  57,  m.i. 
Stratford. 


of 


Beaufort  =f 
co.  Brecon, 
m.  Charlotte 
d.  1862  aged 
61,  tablet  Llangattock 


unm. 1893.'*  ch.  (3  sons  d.  unm.) 


I — i — 


Amelia  Eliza  P.; 

Rob. 

Arthur 

Annie 

m.  E.  M.  Warm- 

P.,  1 

JohnP., 

Jane  P. 

ington  of  Dud¬ 

son. 

3  son. 

of  Ipsw. 

ley,  solr,  bro.  of 

=i= 

— 

C.  M.  Warming- 

Helen 

ton,  K.C.,  M.P. 

4- 

4/ 

Mary  P. 

Wm  Bailey  P.  of  Bacton,- 
co.  Hereford,  A  Llanfoist 
House,  co.  Mon.,  J.P.  for 
those  counties ;  b.  1840  ; 
m.  1871 ;  High  Sheriff 
elect  of  co.  Brec.  1902. 


Bettina=j=Hen.  Rand.  Trafford,  J.P., 
MaudP.;  j  D.L.,Michaelchurch  Court,  co. 
in.  1899.  ^/Hereford,  High  Sheriff  1896. 


Ric.  Crawshay  Bai¬ 
ley  P.,  L4  Shropsh. 
I.Y.,  S.  Af.  1900. 


Alary  Joseph  P.  of  Llan-=r 
F.  E.,  thewy  Court,  co. 
da.  A  h.  Mon. ;  m.  Jessie 
ofW.  H.  Eliz.,  da.  of  Ed. 
Hamp,  James,  M.D.,  J.P. 
Bacton.  co.  Radnor;  d.  1888. \j/ 


Yiolet  Reg.  Gardner  P.;  killed  in  ac-  Hen.  Francis 
Hel-  tion,  29  Sep.  1900,  Bethulie,  P.,  L4  8th  Hus- 
enaP.  S.  Af.,  Shropsh.  I.Y.  sars;serv.S.Af. 


Daisy  Dorothy 
Hamp  Irene 
P.  Hamp  P. 

X 


170 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Partntifff 


of  Barton,  imxfortisinrr. 


( See  preceding  page.) 


James  Partridge  of  Stratford  S.  Mary  &  Holton  S.  Mary,  3  s.  of  Arthur  P.  of  Shelley  Hall.-pEliz.  Bailey. 


i - - - — 

Wm  P.  of  Beaufort  House,  oo.  Brecon,  only  s. ;  b. 
1800-1;  m.  Merthyr-Tydvil,  co. Glamorgan ;  d. 
1862  aged  61,  tablet  Llangattock  oh.,  co.  Brecon. 


:Charlotte,  da.  of  Tho. 
Bevan  ;  d.  1873  aged  61, 
tablet  Llangattock  ch. 


— i - - 

Eliz.  P. ;  d.  1876=Herbert  Will- 
Southsea,  Hamp-  iams  of  Usk, 
shire,  sine  prole.  co.  Mon. 


- 1 

Susannah  P.  of  Peckham, 
Surrey;  d.  unm.;  bur. 
Norwood  cem.,  Surrey. 


i - — - - 1 - 1 - 1 - - 1 - 1 - 1 


Maria  P. ; 

Wm  P.;  Eliz.  Mat- 

Richard 

Rob. 

Wm  Bailey  P.  of- 

=Mary  Fran- 

Mary 

Josoph  P.  of= 

yJessie  Eliz.,  da. 

m.  Tho. 

d.  ildaP.;m. 

Crawshay 

Tho.  P. ; 

Bacton,  co.  Here- 

ces  E.,  da. 

Char- 

Llanthewy 

of  Edw.  James, 

Adney, 

young.  JohnBenj. 

P.;  d.unm. 

d.  1853 

ford,  &  Llanfoist 

&  h.  of  Wm 

lotte 

Court,  nr 

M.D.,  of  Park- 

M.R.C.S., 

Evans  of 

at  sea 

aged  17, 

House,  co.  Mon., 

Hen.  Hamp 

P.;  m. 

Abergavenny, 

held,  Edgbas- 

of  Merthyr- 

Dowlais, 

returning 

tablet 

J.P.  for  those  coun- 

of  Bacton 

Will"' 

co.  Mon. ;  b. 

ton,  co.  War- 

Tydvil,who 

co.  Gla- 

fm  Brit. 

Llan- 

ties;  b.  1840;  m. 

Grange,  s. 

Rich- 

1843;  m.  1878 

wick,  J.P.  co. 

was  bur. 

morgan. 

Columbia 

gattock 

Bacton  1871 ;  High 

of  Francis 

ards 

Watei’looville, 

Radnor;  b. 

Presteigne, 

=p 

1863  aged 

ch. 

Sheriff  elect  of  co. 

Hamp  of 

Evans 

Hampshire ; 

1846;  d.  1883, 

co.  Radnor. 

\1/ 

28,  tablet 

Brecon  1902. 

Bacton. 

of 

d.  1888,  m.i. 

tablet  Lland- 

Llangat- 

\ 

/ 

Dow- 

Llanddewi- 

dewi-Skirrid 

tock  ch. 

See  preceding  page. 

lais. 

Skirrid. 

ch. 

r 

Joseph  Edw.  Crawsliay  P.,  Lfc  41st  (Welsh)  Reg1; 

served  S. 

Af.  1901-2,  L*- Roy.  Mon.  Rob.  Liston  P. 

T 

Ernest  Hugh  P. 

— I 

Wm  Mevrick  P. 

ipartritiffr  of  3rton,  iSuMrarg,  anti  Habrnjiam. 

(See  “ Proceedings  of  the  Suff.  Institute  of  Archaeology”  for  1899,  vol.  x,  part  ii,  pages  150 — 168.) 


Partrich. w 


Agnes=f=(l)  Robard  Partrich  thelder  of  [?  All  Saints,] 
Sudbury  ;  will  dat.  8  Dec.  1489,  to  be  bur. 
bur.  in  in  Acton  ch’yard,  had  ten’s  (prob.  all  at 

Acton  Acton)  called  Smethes,Rayes,Archendemys 

ch’-  orArchedemys,  Stokes,  Parmenters,  Strutts 

yard.  with  Blyndmannes  Crofte,  and  Deyes  with 

(First  a  croft  called  Gotescroft ;  will  prov.  22  Oct. 

wife.)  1491,  P.C.C.,  1  Dogett.  He  made  a  cause¬ 

way  at  Twinstead  in  Ess.  (his  wid.’s  will) . 
On  31  July  1468,  he  was  Rob.  Parteryche 
of  Acton — Turner  and  Coxe’s  Calendar  of 
Charters  and  Rolls  preserved  in  the  Bodl. 
Lib.,  p.  410. 


(2)— (2)  Mawde,  da.  of  .  .  .;  devisee  in  (1)- 
her  sec.  liusb.’s  will ;  her  will 
(Mawde  Partericli  of  Sudbury, 
w'id.)  dat.  25  Feb.  1494,  to  be 
bur.  in  the  Chapel  of  All  Saints’ 
ch.,  had  a  house  at  Sudbury  and 
another  at  Ballingdon,  bequests 
to  Annes  Brounesmyth  “  my 
Suster  ”  and  Mawde  her  da. ; 
will  prov.  P.C.C.,  23  Yox. 

(Second  wife.) 


:Thomas 
Wellis 
or  Well  - 
ys  of  All 
Saints, 
Sud¬ 
bury  ; 
bur.  in 
the 

Chapel 
of  All 
Saints’ 
ch. 


Roger  Part- 
rich  ;  co-ex’ or 
and  devisee  in 
his  bro.  Ro¬ 
bert’s  will  ; 
bought  of  his 
bro.  Rob.  a 
ten.  called 
“  Deyes  and 
with  a  croft 
called  gotes¬ 
croft  in  Ake- 
ton.” 


JohnPart- 
rich ;  devi¬ 
see  in  his 
bro.  Ro¬ 
bert’s  will; 
sold  to  his 
bro.  Rob. 
two  ten’s 
in  Laven- 
ham. 


Grace' 
Part- 
rich  ; 
devi¬ 
see  in 
her  fa¬ 
ther’s 
will. 


William  Rob.  Partryche  of  Acton,  yeoman  ;” 
Crochon  co-ex’or  of  and  devisee  in  hisfather’s 

or  Cro-  will,  wh.  he  prov.  22  Oct.  1491 ;  will 

chyn  ;  dat.  20  Sept.  1525,  to  be  bur.  in 

devisee  Acton  church,  had  ten’s  at  Acton 

in  his  called  Coppins  or  Coppyns,  Arche- 

father-  dems  or  Archedoms,  Stooks,  and 

in-law’s  Parmenters ;  will  prov.  30  Oct. 

will.  1525,  Archd.  Sudb. 


=Isabell,  da.  of  ... ;  devisee  in  her  father-in- 
law’s  will,  and  in  that  of  Maw'de  Parterich, 
who  also  made  a  bequest  to  Isabell’s  sist.  Jo- 
hanne,  wife  of  Rob.  Cowper  of  Edwardston  ; 
devisee  in  her  husb.’s  will,  1525;  her  will  (of 
Acton,  wid.)  dat.  17  Dec.  1545,  to  be  bur.  in 
Acton  ch’yard,  ex’ or  to  be  Wm  Haywarde  of 
Acton,  yeoman,  who  pr.  will  5  Feb.  154]  at 
Fornham,  Arch.  Sudb. 


Geo.  Patericlie  of  Lav-  Roger 
enham;  will  (Arch.  Part- 
Sudb.)  13  Mar.  1542;  riche; 
to  be  bur.  in  ch’yard,  devisee 
resid.  legatee  &  ex’or  in  his 
to  be  Rob.  Partriche  brother 
“ my  Cosen  [?  nephew]  George's 
wth  whom  I  ame  and  will, 
haue  bine  longe  sicke.” 


Rob.  Crochon ;  he  and  his  sist.  Agnes  Thomas 
and  brothers  were  devisees  in  Crochon;  Crochon; 
their  grandf.  Partrich ’s  will,  devisee  devisee 

being  then  under  21  and  unm.  1489.  1489. 


John  Crochon ;  b.  after  8  Dec.  1468  ;  devisee,  under  21  and  unm.,  in  his  grandf. 
Partrich’s  will,  1489  ;  probably  the  same  as  the  John  Croehen  who  was  devisee  in 
Rob.  Partryche’s  will,  1525,  in  which  an  Edmund  Croehen  was  also  dev.,  and  to 
wh.  both  John  C.  and  Edm.  C.  were  witnesses. 


3L’<£strange  of  Dakrtilmm. 


Jlrntorial  Hearings. 

The  arms  of  Hamon  Le  Strange,  Esq.,  of  Pakenham,  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664 
were  Quarterly  of  9  (with  a  crescent  for  difference)  : — 

1,  Strange — Gules,  two  lions  passant  in  pale  Argent. 

2,  Vernon — Or,  on  a  fess  Azure,  three  garbs  of  the  field. 

3,  Camoys — Argent,  on  a  chief  Gules,  three  plates. 

4,  Walkfare — Argent,  a  lion  rampant  Sable,  charged  on  the  shoulder  with  a  mullet  of 

the  field. 

5,  Morieux — Gules,  a  bend  Argent,  billetee  Sable. 

6,  Beaman — Or,  a  cinquefoil  pierced  Gules. 

7,  Pyke — Argent,  three  piles  wavy  in  point  Gules. 

8,  Rushbrook — Sable,  a  fess  between  three  roses  Or. 

9,  Hastings— Or,  a  maunch  Gules. 

The  crest,  a  lion  passant  guardant  Or,  is  also  charged  with  a  crescent  for  difference. 

Hamon  L’Estrange  of  Pakenham  was  nephew  to  Sir  Nicholas  L’Estrange,  the  first  Baronet 
of  Hunstanton,  in  Norfolk.  Pedigrees  of  this  ancient  and  knightly  family  will  be  found  in 
the  Visitation  of  Norfolk  156S ,  edited  by  the  Rev.  G.  H.  Dashwood,  F.S.A.,  pp.  61-67  and  443,  and 
in  Carthew’s  History  of  Launditch,  vol.  i,  p.  142-145. 

The  L’Estranges  acquired  their  Pakenham  estate,  which  is  still  known  as  Beaumont  Hall, 
by  the  marriage  of  John  L’Estrange  with  Alice,  daughter  and  heir  of  Nicholas  Beaman  or 
Beaumont,  before  1436. 


Mill  of  fiatn  t  ^Uicr  IT  (Estrange,  1656. 

The  sixteenth  of  October,  1656,  Dame  Alice  Lestrange  of  Sedgford  co.  Norff,  Relict  of 
Sr  Hamon  Lestrange  Kn4  of  Hunstanton.  My  body  to  be  interred  in  the  Chancell  of 
Hunstanton,  neere  to  the  body  of  Sr  Hamon  Lestrang,  my  late  deare  husband.  I  giue  vnto 
Sr  Nicholas  L’estrange  Bar*  my  breweing  Copper,  my  washing  Copper,  my  Milke  Copper,  Ac., 
my  Serge  Bedd  lyned  with  Pentado,  with  the  chares,  stooles  and  Carpett  suteable.  Vnto  Dame 
Anne  Lestrange,  my  Daughter  in  Law,  the  Bedd  of  blew  serge  in  my  owne  Chamber.  Vnto 
Dame  Elizabeth  Spring,  my  daughter,  Dorothy  Spring,  my  grandchilde,  Sr  William  Spring  Bar* 


172 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


and  Thomas  Spring  his  brother,  my  grandchildren,  Roger  Lestrang  my  sonne,  Judith  Lestrang 
my  daughter  in  law,  John  Lestrang,  Thomas,  William,  Edward,  Roger  and  Charles  Lestrang 
my  grandchildren.  Vnto  Dorothy  Lestrang,  daughter  of  my  sonne  Hamon  Lestrang  Esqr,  my 
Border  of  gold.  Hamon,  Nicholas,  William  and  Elizabeth  Lestrang,  brothers  and  sister  of  the 
said  Dorothy.  Nephew  Charles  Spelman,  neece  Katherine  Anderson,  neece  Anne  Wilson  wife  of 
Townesend  Willson,  clerke.  Cousin  Margaret  Fisher  wife  of  John  Fisher  of  Honning.  I  ordaine 
my  beloved  sonne  Hamon  Lestrang  of  Pakenham  in  the  Countie  of  Suff.  Esqr  sole  executor. 
This  will  was  proved  the  28th  of  February  1656  by  the  oath  of  Hamon  Lestrange  her  sonne 
and  Executor.  P.C.C.  77  Ruthen. 


Mill  of  Hamon  ICe  Strange,  1660. 

Hamon  Le  Strange  of  Pakenam  co.  Sufff  Esquire.  As  for  my  body  I  desire  it  may  be 
layd  in  Holme  Chancell.  To  J udith  my  most  Beloved  wife  the  Bedd  she  wrought,  two  silver 
Plates  given  her  by  my  father,  with  the  silver  Bason  and  silver  Salte,  and  all  the  lynnen  and 
plate  bequeathed  her  by  my  deare  mother.  I  give  vnto  her  soe  long  as  she  shall  remayne  a 
widdowe  Eighty  pounds  per  annum.  I  give  flue  hundred  pounds  towards  the  advancements  of 
my  two  daughters,  Elizabeth  and  Judith,  which  I  had  by  Judith  my  deare  consort.  Vnto 
Dorothy  my  daughter  the  bed  which  her  mother,  [sic]  and  seaven  hundred  pounds  for  her 
portion.  I  giue  my  daughter  Elizabeth,  which  I  had  by  my  first  wife,  twentie  pounds  per 
annum.  Vnto  my  sonne  William  one  hundred  pounds  at  the  Expiracon  of  his  apprentiship.  I 
will  that  onely  forty  pounds  of  the  Annuity  of  eighty  pounds  bequeathed  to  my  wife  shalbe 
extinguished  notwithstanding  shee  shall  happen  to  marry  againe.  I  constitute  Hamon  Le  Strange, 
my  sonne,  sole  executor  of  this  will,  dated  the  fifteenth  of  June  1660.  Sealed  and  declared  in 
the  presence  of  Elizabeth  Spring.  William  Spring.  Probatum  vicesimo  sexto  die  Septembris 
1660  Juramento  Hamon  Le  Strange  executoris.  P.C.C.  250  Mabbs. 


Mill  of  Harb^g  Il.JL  1791. 

Harvey  Aspin  of  Cockfield  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  clerk,  this  second  day  of  June,  1791. 
Vnto  Mary  Johnson  of  the  City  of  Norwich,  widow,  and  Ann  I  .’Estrange  of  Bury  Sl  Edmunds, 
spinster,  messuage  and  ffarm  in  Hessett  and  Drinkstone,  and  ffarm  at  Cockfield  Great  Green 
and  Smallbridge,  co.  Suffolk,  and  ffarm  in  Pakenham,  to  them  and  to  the  heirs  of  their 
survivoi-.  Vnto  Nathaniel  Le  Acton  of  Livermore  Esqre  the  manor  of  Shimpling  Thorne,  and 
messuage  or  ffearme  belonging,  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever.  Vnto  my  sister  Dorothy,  wife  of 
Nathaniel  Acton  of  Brampford  Esqr,  messuage  called  Peppers  wherein  I  dwell,  in  Cockfield 
aforesaid.  Large  bequests  to  servants,  butler  and  steward  and  to  the  Churchwardens  of  Bailham, 
Hartest  and  Boxted.  The  residue  to  my  said  sister  Dorothy  Acton.  She  to  be  sole  executrix. 
Proved  28  June,  1791,  by  oath  of  Dorothy  Acton,  sister  of  the  deceased. 

P.C.C.  263  Bevor. 


l’estrange  of  pakenham. 


173 


tfrtotgra.  IL’fCstxancjr  of  Paftenljain. 


Herlewin.: 


Hugh  le  Plaiz,  of  Barnham  in  Suffolk.=p.  . 


Ralph  Fitz  Herlewin  als.  de  Hunstanton,  1086.=j=Helewisa  do  Plaiz,  heiress  of  Barnham. 


Ralph  de  Plaiz,  temp.  Hen.  .  . 

As 


Ronald  le  Strange,  1112.=pMatilda  le  Brun. 


Reginald  le  Brun,  s.p. 


Simon  Fitz  Ralph,  temp.  Hen.  I,  s.p. 


2.  Hamo  le  Strange, 
dead  1160,  s.p. 


i - - 1 - 1 

1.  John  le  Strange, =rHawise,  3.  Guy  le  Strange,  ob.  circ.  4.  Ralph  le  Strange^Ela,  da.  of  Richard, 


1156,  ob.  1178-9. 


1177-8. 


1179  :  twice  marr. :  issue. 


-  ’T 

1160 :  dead  1194.  |  lord  of  Wormegay. 

As 


r~ - - - 1 - — - 1 - “I 

2.  Hamo,  1198, 1221.  1.  John  le  Strange,  1178;  ob.  circ.  1238,-pAmicia.  3.  Ralph,  1198.  4.  William,  a  cleric,  Preb.  of  Alveley. 

I 

l - 1 - - — - - 1 - - - 1 

2.  Hamo,  1227.  1.  John  le  Strange,  1st  Baron  of  Knocking,  ob.=j=Lucia,  da.  of  Robert  Ralph  de  Pic h f ord ,=p M arge ry  le  Strange, 

circa  1269.  I  de  Tregoz.  ob.  1252. 

I  A 


T — I 


2.  Hamo,  3.  Roger,  m.  Maud  de  Beau-  1.  John  le=j=Joan,  da.  of  Roger  4.  Robert  le  Strange,  mar.  Alianora  Hawise,  mar.  Griffin, 


died  in  champ,  wid.  of  Roger  de  Strange,  ob. 

1273.  Mowbray ;  ob.  1311  s.p.  circa  1275. 


de  Somery  and  de  Blancminster.  A  quo  Strange  of  Prince  of  Powis. 
Nichola  d’Albini.  Blackmere.  — 

Alice,  1260. 


Alianora,  1  wife,  1276.— -John,  lord  Strange  of  Knocking,  ob.  circ.  1309.=j=Maud,  dau.  and  heir  of  Roger  d’Eiville,  1309. 

I 

l - 1 - 1 - ~i 

1.  John,  lord  Strange, =pIsolda,  dau.  and  heir  3.  Hamon  le  Strange  of^Margaret,  da.  to  Ruffe  Vernon,  Eubolo  le  Strange,  mar.  Alice  de 


of  Knocking,  1309  ; 
ob.  1311. 


of  John  de  Walton.  Hunston,  co.  Norf.  Kid  .- 
dead  1317. 


cousin  8)'  heir  to  Richard  Laci.  Inq.  p.m.  9  Ed.  III.  Roger 
Vernon.  le  Strange  consang.  and  heres. 


As 


.  .  n - - ~i 

A  quo  Strange  of  Ness,  Knockyu,  Edmund  le  Strange,  twin  Hamon  le  Strange  esq.=^Katherine  da.  §'  heir  of  John,  lord  Camoys 

Ellesmere  and  Middle.  brother  of  Hamon.  of  Hunston  ;  ob.  1399.  (coheir). 


Sir  John  le  Strange,  Knight,  of  H  anstou-^  Eleanor  da.  8/'  heir  of  Richard  Walkefare,  Knight,  and  his  wife  the  da.  <f'  he  ire  of  Sir  Thomas 
or  Hunstanton,  co.  Norf.  Ob.6H.5, 1418.  1  Moreus  (Morieux),  lord  of  the  manors  of  Thorpe  Morieux,  in  Suffolk. 


Christopher,  named  in  Leonard:  John  le  Strange,^ Alice  da.  heir  of  John  (or  Nicholas)  Beman  (Beaumont)  and  his  wife  Eleanor, 


the  Roll  of  Gentry  lands  in  Esq.,  son  heir. 
12  Hen.  6.  Suffolk.  Will  prov.  1436. 


da.  8'  heir  of  John  Pyke,  by  his  wife  the  da.  8f  heir  of  John  Rusbroke.  She  brought 
Pakenham  in  Suffolk  to  the  L’Estranges. 


Hamon.=Eleanor,  da.  of  Sir  Philip  Radford. 


Roger  le  Strange,  esq.  son  8f  heir,=f=Jane  da.  of  ..  .  Beke. 
of  Hunston  and  Pakenham. 

_ I 


John  le  Strange,  eldest  son  mar.  Sir  Henry  le  Strange,  2  son,  brother  and  heir  to  John. =j= Katherine  da.  to  Roger  Drewiye  of  Halsted  (Haw- 


(.  .  .  Brewos e)  died  sans  issue.  Will  dated  1483.  Ob.  1485.  Manor  of  Shelley,  Suff. 


stead)  in  co.  Suffolk,  esq.  See  Drury  ped.,  vol.  i,  p.  354. 


Sir  Roger  le  Strange^  Anna,  da.  of  Sir  Xpofer  Robert  le=^Margaret  (Anne),  da.  (&  Johnle  Strange  was=j=Ann  (Margaret),  da.  8'  Anne, 


Knight,  eldest  son. 

Inq.  p.m.  21  H.  7 ; 
estate  in  Pakenham. 


Heydon,  Knight  (Sir  Strange, 

Henry  Heydon)  ;  his  2son, ob. 

Will  prov.  1510.  3  H.  8. 


coh.)  of  Thomas  le  Strange  of  Massingham  in 
of  Walton  co.Warwick, esq.-  Norfolk.  He  was  a 
She  rem.  Edw.  Knevett.  Judge.  3  son. 


John  le  Strange  died  Sir  Thomas  le  Strange, =j= Ann  da.  to  Katherine  mar.  to  Sir  Elizabeth,  mar.  to  John 


young.  Inq.  p.m.  6  Knight,  son  8f  heir ;  cousin  8' 

H.  8.  Brokehall  in  heir  to  Sir  Roger  le  Strange. 
Pakenham.  Will,  1544 ;  estate  in  Paken¬ 

ham. 


Nicholas,  Hugh  Hastings  of  Elsing  Wotton  of  Tudenham  in 
lord  in  co.  Norf. ;  2,  Thomas  co.  Norf.  esq.  Did  she 

Vaulx.  Gawdy,  -Esq.  (Query  ?).  mar.  Thomas  Gawdy  P 


coheir  of  Thomas  le  mar. 
Strange  of  Walton  in  .... 
Warwickshire.  Gour- 

ney. 

- n 

Barbara,  only  dau, 
and  heir ;  Henry, 
her  brother,  ob. 
v.p.  and  s.p. 


See  A. 


174 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


i  i - 1  i - 

Richard,  2  son,  John  le  Strange,  4  son. 
mar.  Dorothy  — 

Astley.  Roger,  5  son,  of  Wiveton, 

—  co.  Norff.,  Esq.  Will  Cur. 

Will m,  3  son.  Ep.  N.  1584. 


Henry,  6  son,  mar.  Kathu.  Lawrence. 

Thomas,  7  son,  mar.  Ann,  wo.  of  Sir 
Fras.  Shawe. 


Will m  le  Strange 
(8tli  son). 

Edmund,  9  son. 


Elizabeth,  mar. 
to  John  Cresenor 
of  Morley  in  co. 
Norf.  gK 


Alice,  mar. 
to  (Thos.) 
Calthorp  of 


1  w.  Ellen  da.  of  Sir - 
W m  Fitzwilliam  of 
Mylton  inNorthampt. 
Knight. 


■1.  Sir  Nicholas  le  Strange- 
of  Hunston  in  co.  Norf., 
ivas  knighted  in  Ireland. 
Lands  in  Pakenham. 


-2  w.,  Katherine  da.  to 
John  Hyde  of  Hyde  in 
co.  Dorset,  Esq.,  wo.  of 
Nicholas  Mynn. 


Ann,  mar.  to  Anthony 
Southwell,  brother  to 
Sir  Rob. 


Katherine,  mar.  to  Sir 
Rowland  Clark  of  Tongc 
in  co.  Essex,  Knight. 


Mary,  ux.  Tho¬ 
mas  Prentiss  ; 
ob.  1589. 


Hamon  le  Strange  of=f=Elizabeth,  da.  one  of  the 


Hunston  in  co.  Norf. 
Esq.  son  8f  heir. 


heirs  of  Sir  Hugh  Hastings  of 
Elsing  :  ob.  1580. 


Robert  le  Strange  (Richard), 
2  son  :  mar.  Joan  Athow,  and 
had  issue. 


John  le  Strange,  3  son. 
His  da.  mar.  Sir 
Henry  Spelman. 


Elizabeth, 
mar.  to  Wm. 
Punt  (?). 


Mary,  mar. 

to . 

Grey. 


Thomas  le  Strange  of  Huns¬ 
ton  in  Norf.,  s.p.—Grissell 
da.  to  Wm  Yelverton.  Sans 
issue.  She  rem.  Philip 
Wodehouse. 


Atm,  da.  of  Sir- 
William  Paston, 
2  wife.  ( Her)  1 
h usband,  S i r 
George  Chaworth. 


= Sir  Nicholas  le  Strange,  2=j=Margaret,  da. 


son,  heir  to  his  brother. 
ThisNicholas  was  knighted 
in  Ireland  1589 :  bapt. 
1562  :  ob.  1591. 


to  Sir  Robert 
Bell,  Lord 
Chief  Baron, 
mar.  1582. 


Anne,  mar.  Roger  Bozonn 
of  Wissingsete.  His  Will, 
1620,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
names  ChristoplierCrowe 
his  s.  in  law. 


Robert  le  Strange,  3 
son  (?  Roger). 

Elizabeth,  mar.  .  .  . 
Lumnor. 


3.  Paston. 

4.  Edward, 
ob.  s.p. 


1.  Sir  Hamon  le- 
Strange  of  Hunston. 

Will  2  July  1652, 
prov.  1654;  lands 
in  Pakenham. 


-Alice  2  da.  Sf  coh.  of  Ric. 
Smith  of  Sedgford  in  Norf. 
Richard  Stubbe  of  Sedge- 
ford.  Her  Will,  P.C.C.  77 
Rutlien,  1656. 


2.  Roger  le  Strange, 

s.p. 

Henry,  eld.  son,  ob. 
v.p.  Carthew. 


Hamond  Bozonn=f=  Frances  da. 


of  Wissingett  in 
Norf.,  Esq.,  ob. 
11  Jan.  166|. 
Harl.  MS.  1552. 


of  SirThomas 
Platers,  of  co. 
Sujf. ;  mar. 
setlmt.  1607. 


Elizabeth,  mar. 
Mr.  Christopher 
Crowe;  mar.  set- 
tlemt.  1595.  His 
Will  dated  1637. 


Sir  Nicholas  Le=f=Anne,  da.  of  Dorothy,  A&.^Hamond.  Hamon- 


Strange,  of  Hun¬ 
stanton,  Norfolk: 
created  a  Baronet, 
5  Chas.  I,  26  Aug. 
1630 ;  ob.  1655. 


Sir  Edward 
Lewknor  of 
Denham,  co. 
Suffolk.  Will 
prov.  1563. 


and  coh.  of 
Edmund  La¬ 
ve  rick,  of 
Up  well,  co. 
Norfolk. 


A\ 


L’Estrange,  Esq., 
of  Pakenham,  co. 
Suffolk :  bapt.  1605, 
bur.  in  Pakenham 
church,  1660.  M.I. 


-Judith  Roger  L’Estrange,  the 
Bagnell,  author, mar.  Mary, dau. 
2d  wife ;  of  Sir  Thomas  Dolman, 
her  four  of  Shaw,  co.  Berks.  Im- 
childn.  prisoned  for  his  loyalty 


- 1 — l — I — l - 

Dorothy,  ob.  s.p. 
Jane,  ob.  1620. 
Mary,  ob.  1621. 


Elizabeth, 
mar.  Sir  Wm. 
Spring  of  Pa¬ 
kenham,  co. 
Suffolk  ;  bur. 


ob.  inf.  to  King  Charles. 

John. 

in  ch.  M.I. 

,  ob.  1618.  1678. 

:Frances,  da.  of 

1 

Nicholas  L’Es- 

William 

1  1  1  I  1 

John, 

George  Cook,  gent., 

trange,  said  to 

L’Estrange, 

Roger, 

and  relict  of  John 

have  been  a 

said  to  have 

Elizabeth, 

Monk,  Esq.,  of  Sus- 

Spanish  mer- 

been  of  Ips- 

Anne, 

sex; bur.  Feb.  1726, 

chant,  and  to 

wich  ;  ob.  at 

Sarah, 

St.  Mary’s,  Thet- 

have  died  at 

Southwold, 

all  ob. 

ford. 

Smyrna  1661. 

Suffolk. 

infants. 

Dorothy,  mar. 
her  cousin, 
John  L’Es¬ 
trange  of  Gres- 
senliall,  son  of 
Sir  Nicholas. 
She  d.  1714. 


Mary,  dau.  of- 
Edmond  Asty, 
of  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  1st  w., 
bur.  in  Paken¬ 
ham  church 
1667.  M.I. 


T.  Hamon  L’Es¬ 
trange,  Esq.,  of 
Pakenham ;  ob. 
1717 ;  entered 
pedigree,  Suff. 
Yisn.  1664;  bur. 
at  Holm,  Norf. 


Barbara,  da.  of  - 
Edward  Bullock, 
Esq.,  by  Mary, 
da.  of  Sir  Wm.  de 
Grey,  of  Merton  ; 
mar.  1669 ;  ob. 
1704;  2  w. 


i — r 


William  and  Judith  L’Es-  Thomas  Bokenham, 

of  Thorpe  by  Nor¬ 
wich  ;  ob.  1743, 
bur.  at  St.  Gregory, 
1739.  /|\Norwich. 


Dorothy  said  trange,  mar. 
to  have  died  at  Barton,  co 
young.  Suff.,1692;ob. 


Hamon  L’Estrange,  of=j=Christian  Isabel 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Esq., 
bapt. at  Pakenham  1674 ; 
ob.  11  Aug.  1769,  aged 
95  ;  bur.  at  Holm,  Norf. 


- 1 — I — I — ! - 1 

Nicholas,  bapt.  1677.  Mary,  bapt.  1671, 
la,  da.  of  .  .  .  —  died  unmar.  10 

Harvey,  of  Cock-  John,  Barbara,  and  June  1755,  aged 
field,  Suff.;  ob.  Dorothy,  d.  young.  83 ;  bur.  at  Holme 
1756,  apt.  83.  by  the  Sea. 


Isabella  L’Estrauge,=Harvey  Aspin,  LL.B.,  of  Corpus 
dau.  and  coh.,  bapt.  Christi  Coll.,  Camb.  ;  Rector  of 
at  Pakenham  5  Dec.  Hartest,  Suff.;  ob.  1891,  aged 
1710;  bur.  at  Cock-  75;  bur.  at  Cockfleld.  Will, 
field  1790.  P.C.C.  263  Bevor. 


Mary  L’Estrange,  bapt.= 
1712,  dau.andcoh. ;  died 
14  June  1808,  aged  95; 
bur.  at  St.  George’s, 
Tombland,  Norwich. 


-Samuel  Johnson,  Esq.,  Barrister 
at  Law,  died  1766,  aged  63  ;  bur. 
at  St.  George’s,  Tombland,  Nor¬ 
wich.  Will,  P.C.C.  376  Tyndall. 


Ann  L’Estrang,  dau. 
and  coh., died  unmar¬ 
ried  ;  bapt.  at  Pak¬ 
enham  1714. 


Caroline  Isabella  Johnson,  dau.  and  coh.  1765. 


Anna  Maria  Johnson,  dau.  and  coh.  1765. 


l’ ESTRANGE  OF  PAKENHAM. 


175 


JAoyal  Brcsrnits— IL’<£stran0f,  Qntolti. 


(See  Vol.  I,  877). 


Henry  III.  King  of  England.=i=Eleanor,  of  Provence. 

I 

_ _ L_ 


i - ; - - - ; - - 1 

Edward  I,=pMargaret,  2nd  wife,  dau.  of  Philip  Aveline,  1st  wife,  dan.— Edmund,  Earl  of  Lancaster--]-' Blanc  lie,  2nd  wife,  dau.  of  Robert, 


King  of 
England. 


Ill  (Le  Hardi)  of  France,  sister  of  of  William,  Earl  of  younger  son,  born  St.  Mar- 


Philip  Le  Bel ;  mar.  1299. 


Albemarle,  s.p. 


cel’s  Day  17  Kal.  Feb.  1245. 


Earl  of  Artois,  3rd  son  of  Louis 
VIII  of  France. 


Edmund,  of  Woodstock,  2nd=j=Margaret  (widow  of  John  Comyn,  of  Ba¬ 
son,  born  1301 ;  created  Earl 
of  Kent  (Dugdale  ii,  92). 

b.  ii  93  a). 


Thomas, =Alice,  dau.  and  h.  Henry,  h.  to=rMaud,  dau.  and 


denagli),  dau.  of  John,  sister  and  heiress  eldestson;  of  HenrydeLacy,  his  brother, 

of  Thomas,  Lord  Wake  (Dugdale  i,  541,  no  issue.  Earl  of  Lincoln.  died  1343. 


h.  of  Sir  Patrick 
Chaworth ;  mar. 
27  Edw.  I. 


Joan,  will  dated  7  Aug.  1385  ;  2nd  husband,  William  de  Montacute,=pSir  Thomas  Holland,  1st  husband,  Eleanor,  2nd=rRichard,  Earl  of 


Earl  of  Salisbury  ;  3rd  husband,  Edward,  the  Black  Prince. 


Earl  of  Kent  in  right  of  his  wife  wife ;  3rd  dau. 

(Dugdale  ii,  746). 


Arundel. 


Thomas,  Earl  of  Kent  (Dugdale  ii,  75  a).=rAlice,  widow  of  John,  Lord  Beaumont  (Dugdale  i,  318  a)  ;  (mar.  in  38  Edw.  III). 


Alianoro,  4th  dau. —Thomas  de  Montacute,  Earl  of  Sir  John  Wodehouse,  of  Kimberley,  Knt.  ;  built  the=r  Margaret,  dau.  and  li.  of  Sir 


(Dugdale  ii,  76  a, 
77  b). 


Salisbury  (Dugdale  i,  651  b)  ;  Wodehouse  Tower  and  made  the  New  Park,  temp, 
died  3  Nov.  7  Henry  VI.  Henry  IV. 


Thomas  Fastolff,  of  Kim¬ 
berley,  Knt. 


Alice,  sole  dau.=j=Richard  Nevill  (son  of  Raphe  Nevill,  Earl  of  West-  John  Wodehouse,  Esq.,  won  great  praise  at  Agin-=f= Alice, 


and  heiress. 


moreland),  Earl  of  Salisbury  in  light  of  his  wife  court;  died  1430,  bur.  under  the  Free  School  at 
(Dugdale  i,  302  a).  Norwich. 


heiress  of 
Furneaux. 


I -  I - 

Alice. ^Henry,  Lord  Fitz-Hugh,  John  Wodehouse,  Esq.,  succeeded  his=j=Constance,  dau.  and  coli.  of  Thomas  Gedding  of  Ickling- 


died  4  Juno  12  Edw.  IV  brother  Henry;  died  1465,  bur.  in  Kim- 
(Dugdale  i,  405  b).  berley  Chancel. 


ham,  widow,  1st,  of  John  Poley,  Esq.,  2nd  of  John  Aleyne, 
one  of  the  Barons  of  the  Exchequer. 


Sir  William  Parr,— Elizabeth, =pNicholas,  Lord  Sir  Edward  Wodehouse,  knighted  at=pJane,  2nd  wife,  dau.  and  h.  of  Edmund  Swa- 

lst  husband.  2nd  dau.  Vaux,  2nd  hus.  Grafton  Field  ;  bur.  at  Kimberley.  tliyng,  of  Letton  ;  bur.  at  Kimberley. 


Anne,=j=Sir  Thomas  L’Estrange,  of  Hunstanton,  born  1414 ;  High 
2nd  Sheriff  of  Norfolk,  1532  ;  died  18  Jan.  1544.  Will  dated 

dau.  14  Jan.  1544,  36  Hen.  VIII ;  inq.  p.m.  18  April  36  Hen.  VIII. 


Edmund-]-  E 1  ea n or  Wodehouse,  mar.  thirdly=j-=John  Bozoune,  of 


Hasty  ngs, 
1st  husb. 


A 


Thomas  Cressener,  of  Morley,  Norf. ; 
bur.  in  the  Black  Friars  at  Norwich. 


Wissingsett,  co. 
Norf.,  Esq.;  died  8 
Feb.  1489. 


_ i 


Sir  Nicholas  L’Estrange,  oh.  19  Feb.  1579 ;  maiv 
secondly  Katherine,  dau.  of  John  Hide,  widow  of 
Nicholas  Mynn,  of  Basham. 


Tlllen,  1st  wife,  dau.  of  Sir  John  Bozoune,  Esq.,  of=rElizabeth,  dau.  of 


William  Fitz-William,  of 
Melton. 


W issingsett,  son  and  h . ; 
living  in  1559. 


Rouncerey,  of  Bretaigne, 
in  France. 


Hamon  L’Estrange,  of=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  and  coli.  of  Sir  Hugh  Robert  Bozoune,  of  Wissingsett,  Esq.,  inar.=j=Elizabeth,  1st  wife,  eldest 


Hunstanton ; 
Oct.  1580. 


died  7 


Hastings,  Knt. ;  ob.  1580 ;  bur.  22 
April  at  Hunstanton. 


secondly  Winefred,  dau.  and  coh.  of  William 
Knightly,  of  Norwich,  and  widow  of  Robt. 
Coke,  of  Mileham. 


dau.  of  Humphry  Kervill,  of 
Wiggenhall  St.  Mary. 


i - - - -  i  r~ 

( Inter  alios.)  Sir  Nicholas  L’Estrange,  bapt.  13  March  1562;  ob.  15  Dec.  Anne=j=  Roger  Bozoune,  Esq.,  eldest  son,  of  Wissingsett ; 


1591 ;  1st  wife,  Mary,  dau.  of  Sir  Robert  Bell,  Chief  Baron  of  the  Exchequer ;  L’Est- 
2nd  wife,  Anne,  dau.  of  Sir  William  Paston,  Knt.  range. 


Will  proved  24  Feb.  1623.  (For  Pedigree  see 
Carthew’s  Launditch  i,  276.) 


I 

See  A. 


176 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Sir  John  Heveningham, =pBridget,  dau.  of 


of  Heveningham,  co. 
Suff.,  Knt. ;  1st  wife, 
Catherine,  dau.  of 
Lewes,  Lord  Mordaunt. 


John  Speiman,  of=p  Anne 


Christopher  Pas- 
ton,  of  Paston,  by 
Ann  Audeley,2nd 
wife. 


i - 

Ham  on 
oune,Esq.,son 
and  h.;  ob.  11 
Jan.  1664-5. 


Boz-=pFrances,  dau.  of  Sir 
Thomas  Playters,  of 
Sotterley,  Suff  .,Bart. 
Marriage  settlement 
dated  6  Jac.  I. 


A 

-J — i 

Elizabeth 
oune,  marriage 
settlement  dat. 
26  April  37  Eliz. 
1595. 


Boz-=pChristopher  Crowe,  of  E.  Bilney, 
Norf.,  gent. ;  Will  proved  15  Nov. 
1637.  (For  Pedigree  see  Car- 
thew’s  Lnunditch  ii,  621.) 


A 


Narburgh ;  M.P. 
for  Castle  Rising. 


Heveningham. 


( Inter  alios.)  Bozoune  Crowe,  of  E.  Bilney  ;  mar.  before=j=Elizabetli,  dau.  of  Thomas,  sister  of 


20  Dec.  1636;  Will  dated  15  Sept.  1658,  proved  11  March 
following. 


Edward  Gournay,  of  West  Barsham, 
Esq. 


Abigail  Speiman,  bapt.  17  Feb.  1641  ;  mar.  13  April  1662 ;  bur.  at=pChristopher  Crowe,  of  E.  Bilney,  Esq. 
E.  Bilney  23  Aug.  1721.  proved  (Archd.  Norw.)  9  Oct.  1706. 


Will  dated  8  April  1706, 


Christopher  Speiman  Crowe,  of  E.  Bilney, = 
Crowe,  Esq.,  Esq. ;  died  1741,  aged  62,  bur. 
eldest  son,  there  28  Nov.  1741.  Admon. 
ob.  4  Nov.  granted  at  Norwich. 

1690. 


-Amy,  dau.  of  Wm.  Thorold, 
widow  of  Roger  L’Estrange, 
of  Hoe.  Will  dated  23  Jan. 
1721,  bur.  at  E.  Bilney  5  Jan. 
1723-4. 


- 1 - 

Anne= 

Crowe, 

eldest 

dau. 


:William  Yesey,  sometime  of  Hobland 
Hall,  Suffolk,  Esq.  (monument  of  his 
ancestor  Wm.  Yesey  in  Bradwell 
Church,  Suff.)  ;  bur.  at  N.  Elmliam, 
Feb.  4, 1722.  (See  Yesey,  vol.  i,  p.  62.) 


And 

others. 


Abigail  Vesey, 
born  and  bapt. 
24  Jan.  1696  at 
Elmham,  ob.  s.p. 


John  Munn-= 
ings,  of  Nor¬ 
wich  ;  mar.  8 
Aug.  1725. 


■pKatherine  Vesey,  born  28 
Nov.;  bapt.  29  Nov.  1700; 
ob.  2  Jan.  1773 ;  bur.  6  Jan. 
at  Elmham. 


— l — r- 

Two 

sons, 

ob. 

s.p. 


.  .  ,,=Justice  Anne  Rachel  Vesey,— Dr.  Mascoll,  1st  husband  ; 
dau.  Blofield,  aged  59  in  1755  ;  ob.  Meux  Rant,  2nd  husband,  of 
of  Burgh  s.p.,  bur.  at  Elmham  Old  Buckenham,  Esq.,  mar. 
Apton.  21  Jan.  1779.  13  Jan.  1755  at  N.  Elmham. 


Christopher  Mannings,  of  Bilney  Hall,  Clerk  in  Holy  Orders, =pMary,  dau.  of  Edward  Davy,  of 


Rector  of  Beetley  and  E.  Bilney;  ob.  1  Sept.  1805,  aged  79; 
bur.  at  St.  Leonard’s,  Shoreditch. 


Mileham,  gent. ;  died  14  Oct. 
1789,  bur.  at  Litcham. 


Anne 

Munnings. 


Dorothy=f=Wm.  Webb, 


Munnings. 


A 


of  Gressen- 
hall. 


(Inter  alios.)  Thomas  Crowe: 
Munnings,  of  Gorgate  Hall,  in 
Hoe,  clerk ;  bapt.  at  Bilney, 
Nov.  18, 1756 ;  Curate  at  Weas- 
enham  1784;  died  30  Sept.  1833; 
buried  at  Beetley,  where  he 
was  Rector. 


=j=Margaret,  dau. 

T 

Paul  John  son  ,=j= Ann 

| - 

. =pMary 

T 

Wotton  Byr-=f=  Sarah 

William 

of  John  Glen- 

of  llunton,  elk., 

Rachel 

Cox,  of 

Munn  - 

chinshaw 

Munn  - 

Pearse, 

ton  (?),  of  Up- 

Rector  of  Bees- 

Munn- 

Kings- 

ings, 

Thomas,  of 

ings, 

steward  to 

well,  Isle  of 

ton  Regis  and 

ings, 

ton-on- 

bapt. 

Chesterfield, 

bapt. 

King  Geo. 

Ely ;  died  15 

lug  worth  ;  ob. 

bapt. 

Thames, 

1  Oct. 

Derbyshire, 

23 

Ill,  pur- 

July  1825;  bur. 

30  July  1835, 

June 

Esq. 

1763. 

gent. 

Nov. 

chased  es- 

Beetley. 

aged  76. 

175S. 

1766. 

tates  atE. 

A 

/ 

Bilney. 

I 


Thomas- 
Kent, 
Esq., 
barris¬ 
ter  at 
law;  1st 
hus¬ 
band. 


:  Dorothy  =f 
Cox,  mar. 
2d  hus¬ 
band, 

1819. 


A 


:Charles  James 
Blomfield,  Bishop 
of  Chester  1824. 
of  London  1828- 
57  ;  2d  husband  ; 
born  at  Bury  St. 
Edmunds  1786. 


Charles  Camp-=f-Sarah 
bell,  elk.,  Rec-  Jane 
tor  of  Weasen-  Tbo- 
ham,  Norf.  ;  mas, 
born  3  Sept,  died 
1791;  died  20  16  Jan. 
May  1878.  1849. 

A 


Richd.  Aldous  Arnold,  clk.,= 
born  8  Dec.,  bapt.  12  Dec. 
1792  at  St.  Margaret’s, 
Lowestoft  ;  Gentleman 
Commoner  of  Trin.  Coll., 
Oxford ;  Rector  of  Ellough, 
co.  Suff. ;  died  29  April 
1877,  bur.  at  Ellough. 


A 


~-\ — 

Charlotte  Tho¬ 
mas,  born  20 
Apr.  1795;  mar. 
at  Chesterfield, 
2  Dec.  1816; 
died  21  May 
1832,  bur.  at 
Ellough. 


Joshua 

Jebb, 

K.C.B 


Sir—Mary 
Tho- 


A 


~ u  . 
-Rebec¬ 
ca 

Munn¬ 

ings, 

bapt. 

21 

May 

1772. 


Charles  Thomas  Arnold,  Clerk  in 
Holy  Orders ;  b.  26  Oct.  1817,  at 
Ellough ;  d.  13  May  1878,  at  Rome 
(see  Arnold  pedigree,  vol.  i,  p.387). 


Walter  Blount, =pMarian  Algernon  Lang-=pCaroline 


ofWallopHouse, 
Hants,  Clerk  in 
Holy  Orders. 


Pearse.  ton  Massingberd, 
of  Gunby,  Line., 
Esq. 


A 


A 


Pearse. 


Henry  Dymoke, Esq., : 
the  Hon.  the  Cham¬ 
pion  of  England ; 
created  a  Baronet. 


=Emma  Pearse,  to 
whom  Mr.  Pearse 
devised  his  Bilney 
property. 


A 


Stickling  of  f&arsljam. 


Jlrwurial  Scarings,  etc. 

The  Arms  of  Suckling  in  the  Visitation  of  Norfolk  ( Harl  MS.  1552,  fol.  121)  were 
Per  pale  Gules  and  Azure,  three  bucks  trippant  Or.  The  Crest  was  a  buck  courant  Or,  holding 
in  his  mouth  a  branch  of  honeysuckle  proper. 

The  original  Crest  of  this  family  was  a  stag  courant  Azure,  attired  and  unguled  Or. 
The  colour  was  afterwards  changed  to  Gules,  and  it  is  so  represented  on  some  of  the  family 
monuments.  But  Queen  Elizabeth,  on  one  of  her  progresses  through  Noi’folk,  granted  to  Robert 
Suckling  and  his  heirs  a  stag  courant  Or ;  adding,  in  consideration  of  his  good  and  loyal 

services,  a  sprig  of  honeysuckle  proper  to  be  borne  in  the  stag’s  mouth  (Suckling’s  History  of 
Suffolk,  vol.  i,  p.  41). 

The  family  claims  a  Saxon  origin.  Socling,  as  it  was  anciently  written,  signified  one 

holding  his  estate  by  socage  or  tenure  of  the  plough.  In  Suckling’s  History  of  Suffolk  is  a 
pedigree  compiled  from  original  documents  in  the  possession  of  the  author.  But  he  confined  it 
to  the  Norfolk  line,  persistently  ignoring  the  claims  of  the  more  ancient  possessors  of  the  name 
in  Suffolk,  who,  as  contemporary  records  prove,  had  long  held  lands  in  the  latter  county,  some 
of  which  were  at  no  great  distance  from  Beccles. 

He  makes  casual  mention  in  a  footnote  (vol.  i,  p.  39)  of  one  Robert  Sliding  who  was 
returned  in  the  Hundred  Rolls  as  holding,  in  1274,  a  small  estate  in  Suffolk;  and  of  a  Walter 
Sliding  of  Sapiston.  We  learn  from  other  sources  that  Johannes  Suclling  of  Framlingham 
attended  the  muster  of  the  Hundred  of  Loes  on  Thursday  next  after  the  feast  of  St.  George, 

19th  Edward  II,  1326  (Parliamentary  Writs,  part  i,  p.  745).  In  1331  William,  son  of  William 
Suclyng  of  Cratfield,  bought  lands  of  Richard  Denham  of  Cokeleye  ( Suffolk  Fines,  5  Edward  III ). 
A  William  Sucling  was  Priest  of  Helmingham  in  1349,  and  may  have  been  identical  with 

William  Sucling,  Vicar  of  Darsham,  presented  in  that  year  by  Maria,  Countess  of  Norfolk 
(Suckling’s  Suffolk,  vol.  ii,  p.  222).  In  1381  Margeria,  Johanna  and  Margeria  Succlyng  were 
assessed  at  the  Hay  Subsidy  for  the  township  of  Mildenhall,  and  a  Richard  Sucling  was  living 
at  Fressingfield  (Powell’s  Rising  in  East  Anglia).  Johanna,  wife  of  Philip  Sucling  of  Woodton, 
in  Norfolk,  owned  houses  in  Bally  gate  street  in  the  not  very  distant  town  of  Beccles,  in  1430 
(Suckling’s  Suffolk,  vol.  i,  p  40). 

Henry  Suklyng  of  Oulton,  whose  will  was  proved  in  the  Bishop’s  Court  at  Norwich, 
22  Feb.  145^,  left  a  messuage  in  Ci’atfield  for  the  benefit  of  his  soul.  In  1461  John  Suklyng 
devised  lands  and  tenements  to  his  wife  and  kinsman,  directing  that  his  body  should  be  buried 
in  Framsden  church.  John  Suckling  of  Westylton,  near  Darsham,  gave  his  estate  to  Agnes,  his 
wife,  in  1474  (Will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.). 

The  name  of  Suckling,  variously  spelt,  often  with  its  ancient  alias  of  Estall  or  Estaw, 
occurs  at  intervals  in  the  Suffolk  Clergy  Lists  at  Norwich,  notably : — 


Y 


178 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Stephen  Estawe,  appointed  to  the  church  of  Waldringfield  in  1429  ;  and  Walter  de  Estaugh, 
presented  the  same  year  to  Brightwell  by  John  de  Lampyt. 

Giles  Suckeleyne  instituted  to  Nacton,  and  John  Suckling,  formerly  Sacrist  at  Wingfield 
College,  buried  before  the  great  Rood  at  Stratton,  1375. 

Henry  Sucling,  Rector  of  Benhall  and  Master  of  Sudbury  College,  1439. 

John  Suckling,  D.D.,  first  Master  of  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cambridge,  owned  lands  in 
Sudbury  and  Great  Cornard,  which  he  had  apparently  inherited.  He  had  a  godson,  John 
Suckling,  the  son  of  his  brother  Thomas ;  a  brother  George ;  and  two  sisters  named  Joan. 
He  was  President  and  Bursar  of  the  College  and  Proctor  of  the  University  in  1491,  and  again 
in  1501.  In  the  latter  year  he  was  elected  Master  of  Goddeshouse  (Masters’  History  of  the 
College  of  Corpus  Christi).  It  was  in  1506  that  Margaret,  Countess  of  Richmond,  mother  of 
Henry  VII,  removed  the  site  of  this  institution,  re-edified  and  endowed  it  afresh,  and  placed 
him  at  its  head,  He  was  instituted  to  the  Rectory  of  Fen  Drayton  in  1494  (Alcock’s  Reg. 
Alien).  In  his  will,  dated  24  September  1506,  he  directed  his  tenements  in  Sudbury  to  be 
disposed  of  for  the  wealth  of  his  soul. 

The  will  of  Thomas  Sucklyng  of  Southwold,  with  a  wife  Cecilia  and  son  John,  was  proved 

in  March  1477.  Another  Thomas  Sucklyng,  also  of  Southwold,  had  a  wife  Joan.  His  last 

testament  Avas  proved  24th  Sept.  1.586  William  Suckling,  whose  will  was  dated  at  Southwold, 
6th  March  1547,  owned  the  Old  Hall,  with  lands  in  South  Avoid,  Roydon  and  Claydon. 

In  “An  Historical  Account  of  Dunwich,  South  Avoid,  etc.,  by  Thomas  Gardner,  1754," 

Walberswick,  Blithburgh,  is  a  list  of  fishing  craft  at  Walkerswick  in  1451  (29th  year  of  Henry  VI), 

the  owner’s  names  being  Galfryde  Greyve,  and  the  master’s  name  Richard  Suckling. 


€nvl))  211  tUo  of  ^ucfeltng  of  ^uffoIU. 

Mill  of  Iji'itrn  buckling,  1456. 

Henry  Suklyng  of  Oldeton,  fuller,  29th  January,  24th  Henry  VI.  All  my  lands  in 

Oldeton  to  Anabilia,  my  Avife,  for  her  life ;  and  then  to  be  sold  and  the  proceeds  disposed  for 

my  soul,  the  repair  of  Oldeton  Church  and  other  pious  uses.*  Lands  and  tenements  in  Cratfield 
and  elseAvhere  to  be  sold  and  money  disposed  as  above.  Proved  at  Carleton,  22  Feb.  145f. 

Consistory  Court  of  Norwich,  Register  “  Neve,”  fol.  44. 

This  Oulton  Avas  probably  in  Suffolk,  as  the  testator  Avas  a  Suffolk  landowner.  He  Avas, 
perhaps,  a  descendant  of  William,  son  of  William  Suclyng  of  Cratfield,  who  purchased  lands  in 
1331  of  Richard  de  Denham  of  Cokeleye  and  Johanna,  his  wife.  Suffolk  Feet  of  Finest 
5  Edward  III. 

In  the  ancient  Indictments  (9510,  g.  9)  Poll  Tax  List,  “John  son  of  Geffrey  Baret  de 

Cratfield,  at  the  time  of  the  levying,  feloniously  came  to  the  town  of  Fressingfield,  to  the 

house  of  Richard  Sucling,  and  then  threatened  the  aforesaid  Richard  Sucling  of  his  life,”  etc., 
etc.,  18th  June  1381. 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


179 


Will  of  Joint  Suckling,  1461. 

(Translated  from  the  Latin.)  I  John  Suklyng  bequeath  my  Soul  to  God  and  B.  Y.  Mary, 
and  my  body  to  be  buried  in  Framesden  Church.  To  Framesden  high  Altar  xijd  for  tithes 
forgotten.  To  the  High  Altar  at  Pethawe  xijd.  To  repair  of  Framesden  Church  xxs.  To  each 
godson  and  goddaughter  xijd.  To  Margery  my  servant  xijd.  To  the  light  of  the  Blessed  Virgin 
Mary  1  lb.  of  wax.  Residue  to  wife  Margaret  and  to  William  Suklyng,  son  of  John  Suklyng 
junior,  whom  I  appoint  executors.  Robert  Cheke  to  be  supervisor.  Wife  to  have  lands  and 
tenements  for  her  life,  with  remainder  to  the  said  William  Suklyng. 

Dated  Tuesday  after  the  Feast  of  St.  Peter  ad  Vincula.  Proved  5  Sept.  1461. 

Consistory  Court,  Norwich,  Liber  “  Betyngs,”  fol.  56b. 

The  Paston  Letters,  vol.  ii,  p.  60,  of  the  1874  edition,  have  the  following  under  date 
October,  1461  : — “  All  the  great  farmers  have  paid  xx,  and  one  of  Debenham  men,  called 
Sokelyng,  and  his  wife  xxx.”  Framsden,  Pettaugh  and  Debenham  are  almost  adjacent  places. 


Mill  of  John  buckling,  1474. 

(From  the  Latin.)  John  Suckelyng  of  Westylton,  co.  Suffolk,  ’26  Feb.  1473-4 . 

My  soul  to  God,  etc ,  .  .  .  .  and  my  body  to  be  buried  in  Westleton  Churchyard . 

To  the  High  Altar  there  for  tithes  forgotten  xiid.  To  the  reparation  of  the  above  Church  two 
bushels  of  malt  To  the  Convent  of  Friars  Minors  in  Donwich  iiis.  ivd.  to  pray  for  my  soul. 

My  wife  Agnes  to  have  my  tenement  in  Bregge  Street  in  Westleton,  with  the  lands.  Wife  to 

have  all  rny  money  and  household  goods  and  to  pay  my  debts.  The  Residue  to  my  wife  Agnes, 

and  she  to  be  the  Executrix,  and  to  dispose  for  my  soul’s  good. 

This  will  was  proved  at  Blyburgh,  27  April  1474,  by  Agnes  Suckelyng,  the  relict  and 
Executrix.  Cur  :  Epi  :  Norwc  :  Liber  “  Hubert,”  fol.  45  b. 


Mill  of  Joljtt  buckling,  13.®..  1506. 

In  dei  nomine  Amen  :  the  xxiiij  daye  of  September  1506,  the  yer  of  the  raynge  of 
Kynge  henry  the  vijth  xxij,  I  Jhoii  Sylynge  (so  spelt  in  the  will,  but  Syclynge  in  the  heading) 
Master  and  Kepper  of  Christ’s  College  in  Cambryge,  being  in  good  and  holle  mynd  Ac.  First  I 
bequethe  my  sowle  to  Almyty  god  and  to  or  lady  sent  Mary  and  to  all  the  holye  cupany  of 
hevyn,  my  body  to  be  beryde  wtin  the  Ch’apell  of  Crysts  College,  to  the  wych  chapell  I  gyve 
my  beste  couerlytt  to  ly  on  the  hersee  &  to  hange  on  the  chapell  wall  att  the  fests.  Also  to 
sayd  College  I  gyffe  my  best  brasse  potte,  my  best  cauderne,1  &  the  decretalls  wfc  a  Manuell2 
and  iij  auter  clothys.  To  the  hye  auter  of  St.  Andrewys  Churche  in  Cambrygge  iij3  iiijd  for 
tythes  &  offeryngs  forgotyn,  and  to  Mr  Nell  xx1*.  To  the  Vicar  of  Waddn3  xxd.  To  the 
reparacyn  of  the  sayd  church  vjs  viijd.  To  the  nniversyte  vjs  viije.  The  high  auter  of  Sent  benttse 
vj8  viijd.  To  benette  College  my  best  potte  A  lykewyse  a  pane.  To  hye  auter  of  Sent  peters 

3  Whaddon,  co.  Cambridge. 

Y" 


1  Cauldron. 


-  A  service  book. 


180 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


in  Sudbury  vjs  viijd.  My  sauter,'  ray  processyonary,  a  latyn  basyn  A  a  chiste  the  wyche  is  in  the 
kepynge  of  Mawte  Grey.  Also  to  the  ymage  of  our  lady  a  payer  of  bedds1 2  w*  a  rynge  of 
siluer  w*  ij  bedds  of  aumber,3  a  broche  of  gold  w1  a  rynge  wfc  a  safer.4  Also  to  hye  auter  of  All 
halowse  in  Sudbury  iijs  iiijd.  To  the  freers  of  Sudbery  iijd  iiijd.  To  Sir  Thomas  Nun  for  a  yer 
servyce  to  be  sunge  in  Cambrygge  for  my  sowle  A  fader  A  raoders  sowles,  and  of  Sir  John 
Fuller  his  fader  and  his  moder  vH  vj8  viijd.  To  George  my  broder  iij li  vj8  viijd  the  wyche  he 
oweth  to  me.  I  gyve  to  hym  a  dublett  clothe  of  waested  ;  to  his  wyffe  a  payer  of  beds  ( i.e ., 

beads)  A  to  Jhon  his  son,  my  godson  a  portewse5  <fc  ij  siluer  spongs.  To  Jhon  my  sister,  of 

Medam  xx8  wh  she  owetli  me,  A  also  to  her  a  golde  rynge  A  a  peyer  of  bedds.  Also  to 

Jh5n  my  older  syster  vis  viijd,  a  coverlett,  blankett,  payer  of  shetts  A  payer  of  bedds.  To 

Thomas  Thyslbern  the  elder  my  fetherbed,  wu  is  at  Drayton,  during  his  lyffe,  or  his  wiffe,  and 
at  their  death  to  his  son  John.  Also  a  goune  to  sayd  Jhon  the  wch  was  M'8  lewyngs.  . 
Bequests  to  Thomas  Thyslbern  the  younger,  and  Rose,  of  gowns  and  sheets.  To  Edward 
(1  Artweke)  his  sysings  wu  he  oweth  to  me  A  the  best  of  ij  gowns,  a  muster  deler6  A  a  vyolet 
A  to  Thomas  Hudson  the  toder.  To  Mekellaualdynfeld  (1  Mekellwaldynfeld,  i.e.,  Little  Walding- 
iield  in  Suffolk)  churche  to  buy  a  procyonary7  iij8  iiijd. 

The  Residue  including  three  tenements  in  Sudbury  and  two  acres  of  laud  in  much  Cornerd 
(i.e.,  Great  Cornard,  Suffolks)  to  executors  to  dispose  to  the  pleasure  of  God  A  health  of  my 
soul.  Appoints  as  executors  Mr  Robert  Chapell,  felow  of  Peterhouse,  Mfc  Symeon  Fyncham  parson 
of  benett  Church  and  Mr  Thos.  Nun  felow  of  Crist’s  College.  Jhon  Scotte  :  Sr  Edward  Antweeke,. 
Jhon  Thyslbern :  Tho :  Godson,  witnesses.  There  is  no  proof  recorded. 

Vice-Chancellor’s  Court  of  Cambridge  University,  vol.  i,  fob  19. 

John  Suckling,  D.D.,  the  testator,  was  the  first  Master  of  Corpus  Christi  College, 
Cambridge.  He  was  appointed  to  this  office  by  Margaret,  Countess  of  Richmond,  mother  of 
Henry  A7II,  in  150G. 


Mill  nf  $,td)0las  Snrkling,  1519. 

I  Nicholas  Sokelyng  of  Loyestofte,  beynge  of  hoole  mynde  and  good  remembrance,  make 
this  my  Testament  and  last  wyll  in  this  wysse.  First  I  bequeth  my  Sowle  to  Almighty  God, 
our  lady  Seynt  Mary  and  to  all  the  holy  company  of  heven,  and  my  body  to  be  buryed  yn 
the  parishe  Churcheyarde  of  Seynt  Margarett  yzi  Lowestoft  aforesaid,  to  whose  hyghe  Aulter  I 
bequeth  iis.  Item,  I  bequeth  onto  Alys  Darby,  wedowe,  ten  combes  of  whete  the  wych  I 
schuld  have  of  William  Gierke  of  Cesshamlande  yffe  yt  may  be  gotyn.  Item  I  bequeth  onto 
the  seyd  Alys  Darby,  Thomas  Sokelyng  and  Agnes  Sokelyng,  my  children,  equally  to  be  departed 
amonge  them,  xxx  ewes  and  lambs.  Item  I  bequet.h  onto  eche  of  the  forseyd  Thomas  and 
Agnes  a  coverlyth.  And  all  other  my  goodes  not  bequethed  I  present  and  geve  onto  Alys 
Darby  whom  I  ordain  and  make  myn  Executrix  that  she  maye  soe  doe  that  God  may  be 
pleysed  and  my  Sowle  therby  be  profyted. 

This  will  was  proved  at  Ipswich  1519  by  Alys  Darby,  the  daughter  and  Executrix  of  the 
said  deceased. 

1  Psalter.  8  Portheise,  a  portable  breviary.  7  Processionary. 

2  Beads.  6  Musterdevylers  cloth,  a  grey  cloth  8  Gt.  Comard  is  near  Sudbury,  as  is 

Amber  beads.  made  at  Montiviliers  in  Normandy.  also  Little  Waldingfield. 

1  Sapphire. 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


181 


Will  of  Kiri) or fr  Suckling,  1523. 

The  21st  daye  of  December  in  the  yere  of  our  Lord  God  1523,  I  Richard  Sykerlyng  of 

Dunstale,  heyng  of  hole  mynde  and  good  memory  make  this  my  Testament  and  last  Will  in 
forme  following.  First  I  bequeathe  my  Sowle  unto  Almightie  God,  to  our  lady  Seynt  Mary, 
and  to  all  the  holy  company  of  heven,  my  body  to  be  buryed  within  the  churche  yerde  of 

Seynt  Michell  of  Dunstall  aforesaid.  Also  I  geve  and  bequethe  unto  a  honest  prest  to  synge 

for  me,  and  those  I  am  bounde  unto,  in  the  said  Cherche  of  Dunstale  immediately  after  my 

decease  x8.  Also  I  geve  and  bequethe  unto  a  secular  prest  for  a  quarter  for  me  xxx8  yf  it 
may  be  born  of  my  goods  after  my  debts  be  paid.  Also  I  bequethe  to  Elizabeth  my  dawther 
all  manner  of  pewter  and  brasse  that  was  her  mother’s  after  the  decease  of  Margaret  my  wiff, 
yf  it  may  be  spared,  for  the  payment  all  the  residu  of  my  goodes  unbequeathed  I  bequethe 
them  to  Margaret  my  said  wiff,  and  to  Hugh  Byrkcloth,  prest,  whom  I  constitute,  ordeign 
and  make  my  Executors,  thei  to  dispose  for  me  lyke  as  their  charge  requyreth,  and  these  byng 
witnesses ;  —  William  Kempe,  Christopher  Howett,  Thomas  Parry  son,  with  other  more  thereunto 
called. 

This  will  was  proved  at  Ipswich  1523  by  Margaret  Sykerlyng  and  Hugh  Byrkcloth,  prest, 
the  Executors. 


Will  of  William  Sucklings,  1547. 

The  6th  day  of  Marche  1547,  and  in  the  seconde  yeare  of  the  reigne  of  Edwarde  the 
Sext  Kinge  of  England,  I  William  Sucklinge  of  Sowthwolde  in  the  countie  of  Suffolk  e* 
Merchaunte,  make  and  ordeyne  this  my  present  Testament  and  last  Wyll  in  this  forme 
following.  First  I  bequethe  my  Sowle  to  Almightie  God,  to  o1'  blyssed  Lady  Seynt  Mary  and 
to  all  the  holye  company  of  hevin,  and  my  body  to  be  buryed  in  the  Churchyerde  of  Sowth¬ 
wolde.  I  give  to  the  pore  people  of  Sowthwolde  after  the  discretion  of  my  Executrix  viu  to 
praye  for  my  Sowle.  I  geve  to  the  pore  people  in  Roy  don  v11  to  praye  for  my  Sowle. 
I  will  that  Elizabeth  my  wyff  shall  have  all  that  my  mease  that  I  dwell  in,  with  the  pyetell 
on  the  lai’ckefelde,  and  the  mast  howse  with  the  bowse  called  the  old  Hall.  Allsoe  myn  inclose 
at  the  see  syde  with  the  capstayn  therin  standinge  for  the  term  of  her  lyff  of  the  saide 
Elizabeth,  my  wyff  kepinge  all  the  saide  howse  in  sufficient  reparacons.  And  after  her  decease 
I  will  that  Robert  my  sonne  shall  have  all  the  saide  mease  and  other  the  premises  as  is 
afforesaide.  And  yf  it  shall  fortune  Robert  my  sonne  to  decease  out  of  this  worlde  my  wyff 
then  beinge  on  lyve,  Than  I  will  that  all  the  saide  mease  and  all  other  the  premises  shalbe 
souled  by  the  said  Elizabeth  my  wyff,  And  the  money  thereof  coming  to  be  equally  parted 
amonge  my  children  and  my  wyffes  children,  that  ys  to  saye,  Ele  and  Felice,  my  dowters,  and 
their  children,  Thomas  Jentylman  and  William  Jentylman  and  their  children.  Item,  I  woll 
that  the  said  Robert  my  sonne  shall  have  my  five  acres  of  lande  after  my  wyffes  decease 
lyinge  on  the  Estayite  of  William  liolbornes  landes.  I  woll  that  Elizabeth  my  wyff  shall  have 
my  mease  that  Jamys  my  sonne  dwellyth  in  withall  the  profittes  thereof  for  the  terme  of  hir 
lyff.  And  after  hir  decease  I  woll  that  the  saide  Jamys  my  sonne  shall  have  yt.  Item,  I 


182 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


woll  that  my  saide  wyff  shall  have  all  my  other  landes  called  Waynflete  landes,  partable 

between  William  Holborne  and  me,  except  my  parte  of  the  crosse  lande  at  the  Townes  ende 
for  the  terme  of  hir  liffe,  And  after  hir  decease  I  woll  that  all  my  parte  therof  shall  remayn 
to  Robert  my  sonne.  Except  before  excepted.  Item  I  woll  that  my  saide  wyff  shall  have  my 
tacle  howses  at  the  woodes  ende  with  ....  acre  of  lande  lyinge  at  the  cley  pytte  for  the 
term  of  hir  lyff,  And  after  hir  decease  I  woll  that  same  shall  remayn  to  Robert  my  sonne. 
I  give  to  the  same  Elizabeth  my  wyff  all  hir  owne  stuff  that  she  browte  unto  me,  And  as 

for  all  myn  owne  stuff  of  howsehoulde  with  all  my  nettes,  I  woll  that  .my  said  wyff  shall 

haue  thuse  and  occupacon  therof  and  the  profights  of  all  the  nettes  for  the  terme  of  her  lyff. 
And  after  hir  decease  I  woll  that  the  said  Robert  my  sonne  shall  have  (them),  and  yff  the 
said  Robert  my  sonne  decease  before  my  wyff,  than  I  woll  that  after  my  wyffe’s  decease  all 
the  saide  stuff  of  howsehould  and  nettes  shalbe  equally  duided  by  my  Executors  amongst  my 
children  and  my  wyffes  children  than  beinge  on  lyve,  that  ys  to  saye,  Ele  and  Felice  my 
dowters,  and  Thomas  Jentylman  and  William  Jentylman  my  wyffes  sonnes.  Item  I  give  to 
my  said  wyff  thone  halfe  of  my  shippe  called  the  “  George  ”  with  halfe  the  cokbote  therto 

perteyninge,  and  after  hir  decease  I  woll  that  the  saide  Robert  my  sonne  shall  have  thother 
half  of  my  saide  Shippe  and  bote  with  ther  tacling.  Yf  any  chaunce  mysfortune  or  casualtie 
shall  happen  to  the  said  shippe  or  bote,  that  then  the  said  Robert  shall  stande  to  the  chaunce 
of  the  same  for  his  parte.  I  woll  that  my  wyff  shall  have  all  my  catayle  in  Roydon  and 
Sowthwolde,  with  all  my  horse  plowghes,  cartes  and  tumbrelles,  all  my  coles  at  the  woodes 
ende,  and  all  my  come,  both  barley  and  rye,  in  my  berne  called  Watsenes  or  elles  wheare. 
I  give  and  bequeth  to  my  said  wyff,  and  to  Robert  myn  sonne,  my  other  ii  botes.  I  woll 
that  my  saide  wyff  shall  have  the  halfe  of  my  shippe  called  the  “  Edwarde  ”  with  half  hir  bote. 
I  woll  that  Thomas  Jentylman  &  William  his  brother  have  thother  half  of  the  said  shippe  and 
bote.  I  give  to  Richarde  Willot,  my  servant,  viiis  iiiid,  a  manfare  of  xii  scores  with  a  wairrop 
and  two  lynes.  I  woll  that  William  Hoberde  shall  have  my  parte  of  the  crosse,  land  lying  at 
the  Townes  ende.  I  woll  that  my  said  wyff  shall  have  the  longe  howse,  late  Waynfletes,  sett 
and  lying  by  Olyvers  gardinge.  I  woll  that  my  said  wyff  shall  have  the  pyetell  that  Robert 
Rinman  hath  in  occupacon  lyinge  between  Blackkes  and  Dowyes,  and  also  x  acres  of  lande 
which  John  Bealys  hath  in  occupacon.  I  woll  that  Robert  Tanner  shall  paye,  or  do  to  be 
payd,  to  Ele  and  Felecie  my  dawters  iiii8,  which  I  payed  him  for  my  close  nowe  beinge  in 
vowyance  betweene  the  Towne  and  me,  And  so  he  to  enjoye  yt  againe  when  he  hath  recoured 
yt  of  the  Towne.  I  woll  that  my  said  wyff  shall  have  all  myn  inclose  in  Roydon  called 
Baldokkes  for  term  of  hir  lyff,  and  after  hir  decease  I  woll  that  Robert  my  sonne  shall  have 
the  said  close,  and  yf  the  said  Robert  decease  before  my  wyff,  then  I  woll  that  my  wyff  shall 
sell  the  said  close  and  the  mony  therof  comenge  to  be  devided  equally  between  my  two 
dawters  Ele  and  Felecie  and  their  children.  The  said  Elizabeth  my  wyff  shall  have  my 
Tenemente  in  Roydon  with  all  the  landes  both  free  and  houlden  by  copye  of  Court  rolls  in 
Cleydon  aforesaid  for  term  of  hir  lyff,  And  after  hir  decease  I  woll  that  Jamys  my  sonne 
shall  have  (them),  except  the  inclose  called  Baldokkes  which  I  have  given  hertofore  vnto  Robert 
my  sonne  and  to  his  heyres.  The  residue  of  all  my  goodes  I  put  them  holy  to  the  disposal 
of  the  said  Elizabeth  my  wyff,  whom  I  make  my  sole  Executrix,  she  to  dispose  as  she  shall 
thinke  yt  to  be  the  most  pleasure  of  G  od,  and  the  helth  of  my  Sowle ;  and  I  elect  and  chose 
William  Howarde  of  Sowthwolde  to  be  myn  Overseer  .... 

This  will  was  proved  at  Norwich  ....  1547  .... 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


183 


Mill  of  (Blijatalj  buckling,  1558. 

The  16th  daye  of  September,  1558,  and  in  the  1st  yere  of  the  reigne  of  our  soueraign 
ladye  Elizabetli  ...  I  Elizabeth  Sucklynge  of  Sowthwolde  in  the  county  of  Suffolke,  wedowe 
.  .  .  make  this  my  presente  Testamente  and  laste  Will  .  .  .  First  1  commend  my  Sowle  to 

Almighty  God  and  my  body  to  be  buryed  in  the  Churchyarde  of  Sowthwolde  next  the  grave 
where  William  Sucklyng,  my  late  husband,  lyeth  buryed.  I  bequeathe  to  Thomas  Jentelman, 
my  sonne,  half  an  acre  of  lands  ...  in  Sowthewolde  ...  To  William  Jentelman,  my  other 
sonne,  my  pycktell  ...  in  Sowthewolde.  ...  I  will  my  longe  house,  late  Waynfletes,  sett 
and  lyinge  by  John  Swaynes  ...  to  be  sold  by  myne  Executors,  and  the  money  shalbe 
devided  amonge  the  children  of  the  said  Thomas  Jentelman  and  William  Jentelman  .  .  . 
I  will  that  my  halfe  sliippe  caled  the  “  Edward  ”  shall  remayne  euenlye  to  the  said  Thomas 
and  William  my  sonnes  .  .  .  yeldynge  and  payenge  therfore  to  the  said  childrene  of  the  sayd 
Thomas  and  William  my  sonnes  fortye  poundes  of  good  English  moneye  ...  1  will  that  my 

halfe  parte  of  my  Corye  called  the  Marye  shall  remayne  to  William  Jentelman  my  sonne  for 
ever.  I  will  that  Elizabeth  Jentelman,  the  daughter  of  the  said  Thomas  shall  have  my  beste 
gyrdle,  my  beste  beades,  and  my  best  taches  ...  I  geve  to  Johan,  the  wife  of  the  said 
Thomas  Jentelman,  my  said  sonne,  my  beste  gowne  and  my  best  kyrtle  ...  To  Margaret,  the 
wief  of  the  said  William,  my  sonne,  my  gown  next  the  beste  ...  To  John  Jentelman,  oldest 
sonne  of  William  Jentelman  ...  To  William  Jentelman  my  sonne  £12.  which  James  Sucklynge 
do  owe  unto  me  ...  I  geve  unto  Thomas  Jentelman,  my  sonne,  my  best  sylver  salte  and  one 
halfe  dozen  of  my  beste  sylver  spones.  I  geve  to  William  Jentelman,  my  sonne,  my  next  beste 
silver  salte  and  fyve  silver  spones  of  the  best  sorte  ...  I  will  that  the  residue  of  my  silver 
spones  .  .  .  thurtye  in  number  be  equally  divided  between  the  children  of  Thomas  Jentelman 
&  William  Jentelman,  my  sonnes  ...  To  Thomas  Jentelman,  sonne  of  Thomas  Jentelman,  my 
sonne,  .  .  .  <tc.,  etc. 

This  will  was  proved  at  Norwich  .  .  . 


■William  Suckling,  of  Southwold,  co." 
Suffolk,  made  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
6  March  1547,  leaving  lands  in  South¬ 
wold,  Roy  don  and  Clay  don. 


=Elizabeth,  his  relict  and  executrix, - 
made  Will  16  Sept.  1558,  leaving  all 
to  William  and  Thomas  Gentleman, 
her  sons,  and  their  children. 


William  Gentleman, 
of  Southwold,  1st 
husband  to  Elizabeth 
Suckling. 


James  Suckling  of  Southwold, 
apparently  of  age  when  his  fa¬ 
ther  made  his  Will ;  plaintiff 
in  Suckling  c.  Gentleman,  Chan. 
Proc.,  series  ii,  167-26. 


Ele~&  Fe¬ 

lice,  daugh¬ 
ters,  named 
in  their  fa¬ 
ther’s  Will, 
1547. 


Robert  Suck¬ 
ling,  died  be¬ 
fore  25  May 
1567, &  James, 
his  brother, 
was  his  heir. 


l - 

Thomas 
Gentleman, 
living  1561; 
had  issue 
by  Johan, 
his  wife. 


William  Gentleman,  of-pMargaret,  his 


Southwold,  made  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  8  March 
1561 ;  his  ship  then 
voyaging  to  Iceland ; 
probt.  30  April  1562. 


■wife,  to.  have 
his  house ,. 
lands,-  and 
shipping  foi 
life. 


I - r 

John  Gentleman,  eldest  William  Gen- 

son,  aged  18  in  1567 ;  tleman,  nam- 

one  of  the  defendants  in  ed  in  his  fa- 
Suckling  c.  Gentleman.  father’s  Will. 


Thomas  Gentleman,  Elizabeth,  not  Johann,  a  daughter, 

one  of  the  defen-  yet  17  years  namedinherfather’s 

dants  in  Suckling  c.  old  in  1561.  Will,  1561. 

Gentleman,  1567. 


184 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


OToo&ton  anti  35 ansi) am  OTtlls. 

Mill  of  fltrljarfr  buckling,  1551. 

I  Richard  Suckling  of  Norwich,  Citezen  and  Alderman,  being  in  perfighte  mynde  and 
understanding,  praysed  be  God,  the  xvij  daye  of  September  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lord  God 
mllccccclit0  do  ordeine  and  make  this  myne  laste  testamet  in  manner  and  fourme  folowing : 
first  I  bequeth  myne  soule  and  bodie  to  the  mercie  of  god,  my  bodie  also  to  be  buryed  in 
the  hie  alie  in  the  churche  of  Sancte  Symond  and  Jude:  T  bequeth  to  the  saide  churche  for 
to  incince  me  there,  with  reparacons  xls.  Also  I  geve  to  the  late  Hospitall  now  called  God’s 
house  among  the  poore  twentie  ponnds  to  be  ordered  at  the  discrecon  of  Mr  Mayer  and  his 
bretheren.  To  the  reparacon  of  the  cittie  walles  xh :  also  to  the  reparacon  of  the  river  xh. 
To  everie  spittel  house  abought  Norwich  gats  xxd.  To  everie  poore  householder  in  Sfc  Symond’s 
parrishe  xijd.  'I’o  my  brother  John  Suckling  xls.  To  my  brother  Nicholds  Suckling  xxs.  To 
Amy  ye  wiff  of  Nicholas  Suckling  vis  viiid.  I’o  John  and  Robert  Suckling  eche  xiij8  iiijd. 
To  John  Esthawe  my  best  violet  gowne ;  to  his  wiff  a  gowne  of  the  sayde  clothe  redie  made. 
To  Mawte  Tyllmer’s  doughter  xxs  at  her  manage.  To  Luce  Suckling  &  Elisabeth  myne  god- 
dough  ters  eche  xxs.  To  Johan  Ling  my  doughter  xxh  to  be  houlden  witbal  at  the  discrecon  of 
myne  executours.  To  the  sayd  Johan  my  tenement  of  Mother  Parkes  tk  after  hir  deceas  to 

remayne  to  Richard  Ling  and  his  heirs.  To  Elisabeth  Friar  my  doughter  xxh  and  the  tenement 

at  the  brigg’s  foote.  To  Cecilie  my  doughter  xxu  ifc  the  tenement  in  Sainte  Fasse  (?  St. 

Faith’s)  or  elles  to  make  hir  somme  xl1  without  that  tenement.  To  Agnes  my  doughter  xx11  &  the 

house  in  Saincte  Powles’.  To  Robert  Ling  xx8  <k  to  the  childe  of  Cicelie  Fisher  vis  viijd.  To 

Richard  Frire,  Alice  Bateman,  Jaffrie  Reve.  To  Wyttm  Margeris  mye  prentice  one  littell  fishing 
boote  and  two  of  the  best  netts.  To  Richard  Ling  myne  godsonne  tenne  pounds  to  finde  him 

to  scoole  at  Cambridge,  and  if  it  please  god  to  take  hym  awaye  then  the  sayde  x1*  to  be 

bestowed  uppon  his  brother  Robert  Ling.  To  Edonye  in  Yarmouthe,  John  Fitting  of  Croun- 

thorpe,  <k  to  John  Swaine  the  sonne  of  Anne  Swaine  of  Ohettgraye  at  th’age  of  xx  years. 

To  Joan  Estawe  her  child  vj8  viijd.  To  eche  of  the  three  chilldren  of  John  Ling  xxs  at  thage 

of  xx  years.  To  Mr  Barlow  parson  of  Catfilde  one  goune  clothe  at  the  discrecon  of  myne 
executors.  To  Robert  myne  sonne  myne  howse  and  land  in  Wootton  f relie  after  the  deaces  of 
his  mother;  and  to  John  Suclin  myne  sonne  the  place  that  I  dwell  in  after  the  deces  of 
his  mother,  the  said  John  to  finde  the  howse  in  good  reparacons.  To  be  delte  among  the  poore 
people  within  the  Cittie  of  Norwich  xx11.  To  Jane  myne  wyff  my  house  and  lande  at  Strampsale 
in  fee  simple,  and  also  the  thred  parte  of  househould  stuff.  The  rest  of  my  goods  I  referre  to 
thordere  and  discrecon  of  my  executours,  whome  I  make  Jane  myne  wyff,  Robert  myne  sonne, 
and'  John  myne  sonne ;  and  John  Esthawe  supervisor  of  this  my  testament ;  whome  also  I  give 
two  acrs  of  grounde  being  betwixt  Moyses  and  my  ladie  Calltbrope.  Whereas  I  have  geven  to 
Cicelie  and  Agnes  myne  doughters  certaine  porcons  I  wool  it  to  take  place  so  farre  as  they  doo 
marrye  honestlie  and  godlie  according  to  their  frinds  mynds.  I  wool  that  yf  enye  of  myne 
executors  shall  not  be  contented  with  this  my  order,  then  the  other  two  to  exempt  them  of 
the  executorship,  and  to  give  hym  goods  to  the  soome  of  two  hundred  marks  and  dysmysse 
him  of  all  other  bequests.  To  the  building  of  the  forefronte  fortie  trees  to  be  had  at  Wootton. 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


185 


I  have  before  geven  to  G odd’s  house  twentye  pounds.  I  wool  myne  executours  to  adde  twentye 
pounds  more  to  yt  and  to  buie  sooine  free  thing  within  the  cittye  to  remeyne  to  the  meyn- 
tenaunce  of  the  poore  foulk  and  the  scoole  for  a  perpetuitye. 

To  Doctor  Barrett,  Doctor  Glynne,  Doctor  King  &  to  Mr.  Roose,  eche  of  them  to  preache 
three  godlie  sermons  to  the  edyfieing  of  the  people,  and  they  to  have  eche  of  them  for  everye 
sermon  vis  viijd.  To  John  Bateman  xxs  and  to  Wyflm  Herne  at  his  mariage  xiij8  iiijd.  Thus 
I  conclude  referring  all  things  to  Godd’s  glorie,  who  be  praysed  for  ever  and  ever,  Amen. 
Witnesse  Syr  John  Fisher,  Mr.  Pettowe,  Mr.  Ling.  Provided  also  yf  Jane  myne  wyff  do 
marrie  againe,  then  I  wool  hir  clerelie  to  be  dysmyssed  of  all  former  bequests  and  of 

executorship,  and  she  to  have  twentye  pounds  a  yeare  during  her  liff,  and  the  thred  parte  of 

the  household  stuff.  Also  my  mother  to  have  during  hir  liff  foure  marks  a  yeare  to  discharge 
hir  boarde  withall,  so  farre  as  she  be  contented  to  be  ruled  by  myne  executours.  Also  yf 
John  myne  sonne  shall  mynd  to  sell  myn  house  which  I  have  geven  hym,  then  I  wooll  hym 
to  lette  his  brother  Robert  to  have  yt  twentie  pounds  better  cheape  then  eny  man. 

Furthermore  I  wool  to  the  poore  fourtie  pounds,  to  be  dystributed  yearlie  among  the 
lame,  blind  and  indigent,  speciallie  at  Christmas  xxs  and  at  Easterne  xx3  the  rest  to  be 
bestowed  at  other  tymes — everie  yeare  iiiju  during  x  years.  Witnesse  Mr.  Ling,  Sir  John 
Fisher,  John  Suckling  thelder,  Nicholas  Frier,  Richard  Frier,  Ac. 

Proved  at  Norwich  on  1 7th  October  1552  by  the  Executors. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  Register  “  Lyncolne,”  fo.  185. 

There  is  an  abstract  of  this  will  in  the  Rev.  A.  J.  Suckling’s  “  Antique  and  Armorial 
Collections,”  Add.  MS.  18,476 — 18,491.  Richard  Suckling,  the  testator,  was  nephew  to  John 
Suckling  als  Esthall,  who,  on  the  8th  of  July,  1554,  bequeathed  his  messuage  in  Woodton, 
called  Bigottes,  with  a  hundred  acres  of  land,  to  Alice  his  wife,  with  remainder  to  Robert 

Suckling  of  Norwich,  to  whom  he  left  the  rest  of  his  lands  and  houses.  By  a  deed,  dated 

14th  December,  1555,  Alice  Suckling,  the  widow,  released  to  this  Robert  Suckling,  whom  she 
terms  “grandson  of  her  husbands  brother,”  Bigotts  Wood  in  Woodton  with  one  hundred  acres 
of  pasture,  and  Eastgatefield,  containing  forty  acres,  which  her  husband  had  settled  upon  her. 
This  gives  us  a  sure  clue  to  the  relationship  of  the  parties.  John  Suckling  als  Esthall,  who 
seems  to  be  identical  with  the  John  Esthawe  of  Richard  Suckling’s  will,  further  mentions  John 
Suckling  the  son  and  Elizabeth  the  daughter  of  a  certain  John  Suckling,  Robert  Suckling  the 
younger,  the  children  of  Friar  and  of  Mayes  of  East  Bergholt  in  Suffolk,  Stephen  Manclarke 
of  Yarmouth,  Thomas,  Cecilie,  and  .lohn  Manclarke.  And  he  gives  substantial  legacies  to 
Mistress  Marie  Windham  and  Mistress  Katherine  Heydon,  daughters  of  Sir  Christopher  Heydon, 
to  the  “good  ladie  Heydon,”  Mistress  Elizabeth  Heveningham,  Mistress  Anne  Palgrave,  Alice 
Seevar,  Agnes  Seman,  Dorothie  Roodes,  and  others. 

A  curious  old  paper,  entitled  the  “Disposition  of  John  Manclerk,  1556,”  formerly  in  the 
possession  of  the  Rev.  A.  J.  Suckling,  the  Suffolk  Historian,  states  that  Eastgatefield  in  Woodton 
was  purchased  by  John  Suckling  the  elder,  the  father  of  John  Esthall  the  younger,  who  settled 
it,  as  above  said,  upon  Alice  his  wife. 


Z 


186 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  Atiam  Harfairk,  1552. 

The  1st  daye  of  Maye  1552,  I  Adam  Barwyke  of  Estbargholt  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke, 
Clothworker,  ...  do  make  this  my  last  will  .  .  .  First  I  bequeathe  my  Soull  to  God  .  .  . 

and  my  bodye  to  be  buried  in  the  Churche  of  Estbargholt  ...  I  doe  give  to  the  poore  of 

Estbargholt  £10.  Robert  Barwyke,  my  sonne,  is  a  troubellous  man  and  thretnethe  to  vex  my 
Executrix  and  the  residue  of  my  children  after  my  death  ...  I  doe  give  to  Edward 

Barwyke,  my  sonne,  my  tent  called  Monkes  Lea  in  Stratford,  in  the  county  of  Suffolke, 

to  hym  and  to  his  heyres  for  ever.  To  Edward  my  sonne  my  tent  called  Cheses,  lying  in 
Stratford  aforesaid,  and  my  Grove  called  the  Legrove  in  Langham,  in  the  countie  of  Essex 
.  .  .  and  my  Grove  that  I  dyd  bye  of  William  Baxter  of  Langham,  lying  in  the  said  town 
of  Langham  ...  I  give  to  Johan  my  wief  all  my  messuages,  landes,  and  tents,  lying  in 
Estbargholt,  Wely,  and  Thorppe,  Co.  Essex,  for  the  terme  of  her  natural  life  .  .  .  And  after 
the  death  of  the  said  Johan,  I  doe  give  to  Richard  Barwyke  my  sonne  all  my  messuages,  Ac , 
which  I  bought  of  George  Reynold  .  .  .  lying  in  Estbargholt  .  .  .  After  the  death  of  Johan 
my  wief  I  give  to  Richard  Barwyke  my  sonne  all  my  messuages  in  Estbargholt  which  I  dyd 
by  of  thexecutors  of  one  Garrard  of  Tattiston  .  .  .  and  my  landes  called  Gandes  in  Estbargholt 
.  .  .  and  my  litle  medowe  in  Estbargholt  lying  without  the  greate  fields  belonginge  to  the 
tent  called  M arlers  and  so  downe,  right  as  it  is  hedged  and  dyched,  to  my  grete  pondes  .  .  . 
and  the  felde  above  the  waterwayes  in  Estbargholt  .  .  .  After  the  death  of  my  wief  I  give 

to  William  Barwyke  my  sonne  my  messuage  in  Estbargholt,  and  the  two  little  pyckelles  lying 
within  the  gate  beneth  the  tent  called  Marlers  .  .  .  and  all  those  my  messuages  (late  Robert 
Marlers)  in  Estbargholt  with  the  pightle  that  lyetli  agaynst  my  gate,  and  the  grete  fielde 
lying  downe  to  the  mydewe  .  .  .  and  all  my  messuages,  landes,  and  tents  being  in  the  townes 
of  Willy  and  Thorpe,  in  county  Essex  ...  If  the  said  Richard  Barwyke  doth  die  without 
issue,  then  his  brother  William  is  to  have  his  possessions  in  Estbargholt,  but  if  both  sons  die, 
then  I  give  them  to  Elizabeth  Sucklinge,  Johan  Northern,  Agnes  Turner,  Bessie  Barwyke  A 
Margaret  Barwyke  my  daughters.  And  my  messuages  Ac  in  Wyllye  and  Thorpe  I  doe  give  to 
Robert  Barwyke,  John  Barwyke,  Edward  Barwyke,  A  Alice  Swynborne,  my  children.  To 
Richard  Barwyke  .  .  .  and  William  Barwyke  my  sonnes,  to  each  threscore  poundes  at  the  age 
of  xxi.  To  Besse  Barwyke  and  Margaret  barwyke  my  daughtei’s  to  each  xivu,  at  their  age  of 
xviii  yeares.  John  Barwyke  my  sonne  shall  paye  all  such  sommes  of  money  as  he  dothe  owe  unto 
me.  All  the  residue  I  leave  to  Johan  my  wief,  and  she  to  be  sole  Executrix  of  this  my  will. 
She  shall  give  securities  to  Robert  Sucklinge  and  Edward  Barwyke  for  the  paymente  of  the 
legacies  of  my  children.  And  I  doe  ordeyne  the  said  Robert  Sucklinge  and  Edward  Barwyke 
to  be  Supervisors. 


Will  of  Christian  buckling,  1608. 

The  eighteenth  daye  of  Aprille  in  the  6th  yere  of  the  reigne  of  our  most  gracious 
Soveraigne  James  King  of  Englande,  I  Christian  Sucklinge,  widdow,  of  Stowmarket  in  the 
countie  of  Suffolk,  gentlewoman,  doe  make  this  my  last  Will  and  Testament.  First  I  bequeathe 
my  soule  unto  Almightie  God  and  my  boddy  I  comitt  to  the  earth  from  whence  it  came,  to 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


187 


be  buried  in  the  Chauncel  of  Stowmarket  aforesaid.  And  as  concerninge  my  worldly  goodes,  I 
give  and  bequeathe  them  as  followeth  Imprimus  I  give  to  the  poorest  people  of  Norwich 
xlB,  to  be  distributed  by  the  Maior  and  the  Shire ves  there.  And  I  give  unto  the  poorest 
people  of  Stowmarkett  aforesaid  xls,  to  be  distributed  at  the  daye  of  my  funerall.  I  give 
likewise  to  the  pore  people  of  Sothwold  xH  I  give  to  myne  Executrix  to  bestow  vppon  my 
funerall  v1.  I  give  unto  Phillipa  Howe,  the  daughter  of  Richard  Howe  of  Stowmarket,  gent., 
xx1.  I  give  and  bequeathe  vnto  the  children  of  the  said  Richard  Howe,  namely,  to  John  Howe, 
to  Robert  Howe,  to  Michaell  Howe,  to  Roger  Howe,  to  Elizabeth  Howe,  to  Agnes  Howe,  to 
Frances  Howe,  to  Phillippa  Howe,  and  to  Susan  Howe,  to  euerie  of  them  v1  to  be  paid  at 
their  several  ages  of  xxi  yeres,  or  at  the  daie  of  their  several  mariages.  I  give  and  bequeathe 
unto  Elizabeth  Hershaw,  widdow,  my  sister,  <fc  to  John  Hershaw  vi1.  To  Ann  Garnett  and  to 
Christian  Garnett,  her  daughter,  to  each  and  to  everie  of  them  v1.  If  John  Sucklinge,  my 
sone-in-law,  doe  truly  paie  unto  Richard  Howe  aforesaid,  gent,  the  arrerrges  of  the  statute  the 
which  I  have  bargained  and  sowld,  assigned  and  sett  my  hand  vnto,  to  the  said  Richard  Howe 
for  the  full  performance  and  accomplishmente  of  this  my  last  will  and  Testament,  I  give  unto 
Elizabeth  Howe,  wife  to  Richard  Howe  aforesaid  v1.  I  give  and  bequeathe  vnto  Roase  Balles 
v11.  The  residue  of  my  goodes,  Cattells,  Chattells,  Landes,  Tenementes  (my  dettes  being  paid 
and  my  funeral  expenses  deducted),  I  give  them  wholy  to  Phillippa  Howe,  the  daughter  of 
Richard  Howe,  above  written,  whome  I  doe  ordeyne  and  make  sole  Executrix.  In  witnes  wherof 
to  this  my  last  will  I  have  published  my  name  and  sett  my  Seale. 

Christian  Sucklinge. 

She  was  second  wife  of  John  Suckling,  of  Norwich,  who  died  in  1600,  the  brother  of 
Robert  Suckling,  M.P.,  who  died  in  1589. 


Peter  Wade  of  Ivirstead  in  the  County  of  Norfolk,  clerk,  3d  March  in  the  first  year  of 
King  Charles.  To  Ruth  Suckling,  my  goddaughter,  three  poundes,  six  shillings  and  eight  pence. 
To  my  very  good  friend  Charles  Suckling  Esq  my  stafe  which  was  sent  me  out  of  Holland, 
and  xxB  to  make  him  a  ringe,  if  he  shall  please  to  except  thereof.  To  William  Gosling  and 
his  wife,  Mres  Spendlove,  Mres  Dasgate,  MrKS  Kent,  Mres  Anne  Suckling,  and  to  Mr  Robert  and 
Mr  Charles  Suckling,  the  children  of  the  above  named  Charles  Suckling,  xxs  apeece  for  a  ringe. 
Proved  29th  April  1626.  Cur.  Ep  Norw.  Wills,  1626,  fo.  63. 


SEill  of  Sir  Joljit  Suckling,  1626. 

Sir  John  Sucklinge  the  Elder,  Knight,  this  last  daie  of  September,  1626,  I  desire  that 
my  executors  do  bring  my  bodie  decentlie  to  the  gi’ounde,  avoydinge  all  expences  of  chargeable 
dynners  and  unnecessarie  blacks,  to  be  buried  in  the  Church  of  St.  Andrewes  in  Norwich, 
within  or  next  the  grave  of  my  most  deere  wief,  whom  it  pleased  God  of  late  in  chasticement 
of  my  manifoulde  sinnes  to  take  from  me.  I  give  to  my  beloved  daughter  Martha  a  faire 

Z2 


188 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ringe  with  eleven  diamonds  in  it.  And  to  my  prettie  twinns,  Ann  and  Marie,  I  give  two 

rings ;  viau,  to  Anne  one  with  thirtene  diamondes  in  it,  and  to  Marie  one  with  seaven 
diamondes.  To  Elizabeth,  my  youngest  daughter,  a  jewell  with  nineteene  diamondes  in  it,  and 

my  late  wief’s  girdle  of  pearle.  Unto  my  beloved  sonne,  Lyonell  Sucklinge,  all  my  terme 
of  yeares  in  the  Manor  of  Newton  in  Norfolke.  To  my  saide  daughter  Martha  the  sume  of 
fifteene  hundred  poundes.  And  I  desire  her  to  bestow  herselfe  in  marriage  with  the  consent 
of  my  two  sisters,  the  Ladie  Gleane  and  Mres  Laire  (Layer).  Unto  my  said  daughter  Ane 
twelve  hundred  poundes,  requiring  her  to  bestow  herselfe  in  marriage  with  the  consent  of  my 
nowe  wief,  her  loving  mother  in  lawe,  and  of  my  Executors.  To  my  daughters  Marie  and 

Elizabeth,  (to  each)  twelve  hundred  poundes,  advisinge  (them)  to  followe  the  councell  of  my 
said  wief  in  the  choice  of  a  husbande. 

I  give  further  to  my  daughter  Martha  one  Posnett  with  a  cover  of  silver ;  to  my 
daughter  Anne  a  Spowte  pott  of  silver ;  to  my  daughter  Marie  my  silver  Chaffingdish  ;  and  to- 
my  daughter  Elizabeth  three  silver  bowles.  I  forgive  my  cousin  John  Hassall  (the  money) 
which  he  oweth  me.  To  my  cousin  Mason,  one  of  my  sister  Hassall’s  daughters.  To  my 

cousin  Coks,  another  of  my  sister  Hassall’s  children.  To  every  one  of  my  sister  Gleane’s 
children.  To  my  godsonne  John  Gleane  eight  poundes  to  buy  him  a  dyamond.  To  my  cousin 
John  Cordall,  one  of  my  late  good  Aunt  Cordall  her  sonnes,  a'  dyamond  of  three  poundes.  It 
is  my  will  that,  before  my  housekeepinge  be  broken  up,  my  Executors  and  Supervisors  should 

conferre  with  my  children  of  the  fittest  places  for  them  to  dwell  in  vntill  they  shall  attaine 

their  severall  ages  menconed  in  this  will,  not  more  than  two  of  them  to  be  togeather  in  one 

house.  Executors  to  take  especiall  care  that  they  maie  not  want  decent  lynnen  clothes  and 

apparell,  charging  (them)  vpon  my  blessinge  to  serve  God  devoutlie,  and  He  then  wilbe  their 
Heavenlie  Father ;  leaving  my  youngest  daughter  Elizabeth  wholie  to  the  aducation  of  my  verie 
lovinge  wief.  I  would  have  my  Executors  to  keepe  for  my  sonne  John  the  best  Iron  Cheste 
and  my  Counter  which  are  at  my  house  in  London,  and  therin  to  lay  vp  his  Bookes  and 
Evidences.  I  give  the  chest  in  my  gallery  at  Goodfathers,  my  house  in  the  countrey,  to  my 

sonne  Lionell,  and  in  it  to  lay  vp  his  Writinges  and  Leases. 

Whereas  I  have  mortgaged  my  Mannor  of  Rosehall,  in  Suffolk,  to  certain  Feoffees  to  the 
vse  of  my  verie  lovinge  wief,  for  the  payment  of  six  thousand  poundes  within  one  yeare  after 
my  decease ;  Nowe  for  that  I  knowe  that  my  Executors  cannott  possiblie  paie  the  same  within 
the  time  menconed,  I  am  content  to  leave  that  Manor  wholie  to  the  said  Feoffees  for  her 
behalf,  And  would  have  my  Executors  give  her  the  Writinges  concerning  the  same,  unles  she 

shalbe  pleased,  out  of  her  noble  and  good  nature,  to  give  my  eldest  sonne  such  time  for  the 

payment  as  he  maie  be  able  to  compasse  the  same  without  hai'zarding  the  ruine  of  his  estate. 
I  giue  to  my  wife  all  her  Apparell,  Pearles,  Ringes  and  Jewelles,  save  onlie  one  chaine  of 
dymonds  which  I  lately  bought  of  one  Mr  Hardnett,  a  Jeweller  for  £155,  which  is  by  her  to 

be  repaid  to  my  Executors,  vnless  my  eldest  sonne  and  she  agree  about  the  Redemption  of 

the  Mannor  of  Rosehall.  I  giue  to  my  beloved  wief  my  best  coach  and  two  of  my  best 
coach  horses ;  and  if  she  have  a  mynde  to  buy  anie  of  my  householde  stuffe,  I  require  my 
Executors  to  use  her  well  in  the  buying  thereof ;  charging  my  children  upon  my  blessing  to- 
carrye  themselves  dutifullie  towards  her,  and  praying  her  verie  earnestlie  to  be  kinde  and  lovinge 
to  them.  (She)  is  to  dwell  in  my  house  in  Dorsett  Court  soe  longe  as  she  remaines  a  widdowe. 

I  nominate  my  good  friende,  John  Herne  Esq.,  Councellor  at  Lawe,  to  be  my  Supervisor,  and 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


189 


I  giue  him  for  his  paines  my  two  Cupps  of  Mother  of  Pearle.  And  for  that  I  have  seene 
manie  errors  in  the  giving  of  blacks  at  Funeralls,  I  have  thought  fitt  to  mencon  their  names 
whom  I  would  have  mourne  for  me,  vidu,  all  my  brothers  and  sisters  of  the  whole  blood,  my 
brother  Charles  Sucklinge.  my  neece  Jaye,  my  brother  Gleane,  my  brother  in  lawe  Mr  Christopher 
Barrett,  my  cousin  John  Hassall,  my  cosen  John  Gleane,  my  cosen  John  Suckling  that  now 
attends  on  me,  my  deere  wief  and  children,  my  Executor  and  Supervisor,  and  such  of  my 
servants  as  (they)  shall  thinke  fitt.  I  giue  xxx8  to  the  Preacher  that  shall  interr  my  bodie  at 
♦night.  Whereas  I  have  mistaken  the  agreement  with  my  lovinge  wief  about  my  house  in 
Dorsett  Court,  in  which  1  dwelt  at  the  time  of  my  marriage  with  her,  I  refer  myself  wholie 
to  the  Lease  which  I  have  sealed  to  her  vse,  praying  my  Executor  verie  earnestlie  to  dispose 
of  the  great  house  in  which  I  nowe  dwell  in  Dorsett  Court  which  I  leased  of  the  late  Earle 
of  Dorsett,  with  all  possible  expedicon,  (she)  to  haue  some  other  convenient  house  till  she  have 
that  according  to  my  lease.  Executors  to  cleere  anie  doubt  touching  plate,  utensills  or  goodes, 
which  weare  my  wief’s  before  my  marriage  with  her.  My  Executors  shall  finde  within  the 
desk  of  my  Studdie  in  Dorsett  Court  a  sufficient  writing  in  lawe  made  to  me  by  my  wife  in 
her  widdowhood.  It  is  my  earnest  desire  that  my  children  doe  love  and  agree  together,  and 
be  helping  and  ayding  one  to  another  as  brothers  and  sisters  ought  to  be,  charginge  my  sonne 
Lyonell,  vpon  my  blessinge,  to  surrender  my  coppihoulde  landes,  which  shall  descend  to  him  as 
my  youngest  sonne,  to  the  vse  of  my  sonne  John  and  his  heires,  as  is  in  this  my  will 
appointed.  Witnesses  : — Era.  Layton,  John  Acton,  J°  Suckling,  sonne  of  Mr  Robert  Suckling; 
Ac.,  Ac.  Proved  at  London  21  May,  1627,  by  the  oath  of  Mr  William  Barrett,  the  Executor. 

P.C.C.  55  Skynner. 

Sir  John  Suckling,  youngest  son  of  Robert  Suckling,  Mayor  of  Norwich,  by  Elizabeth, 
his  wife,  daughter  of  Adam  Barwick,  of  East  Bergholt,  in  Suffolk,  was  born  in  1569.  He 
married,  first,  Martha,  sister  of  Lionel  Cranfield,  Earl  of  Middlesex,  the  mother  of  his  children, 
and  secondly  Jane,  daughter  of  John  Reve,  of  London.  His  eldest  son,  Sir  John  Suckling,  the 
Cavalier  Poet,  was  born  in  1609.  He  purchased  the  Manor  of  Roos  Hall  in  Beccles,  where  he 
resided  at  times,  in  1600,  and  that  of  Barsham  in  1613.  In  a  letter  written  in  the  latter 
year  to  his  brother  Charles  Suckling  of  Woodton,  he  says: — “I  ame  nowe  nowe  gone  through 
for  Barsham,  and  have  had  a  line  recoverie  acknowledged  to  my  use  before  my  Lord  Hubbard, 

A  to-morrow  the  indentures  are  to  be  sealed . It  is  nowe  myne  A  I  trust  that  the 

name  of  Sucklings  shall  inheritt  A  possess  it  when  I  am  dead  A  rotten.”  Sir  John  was 
Secretary  of  State,  Comptroller  of  the  Household,  and  Privy  Counsellor  to  James  I  and  his 
unfortunate  successor,  and  M.P.  for  Dunwich  in  Suffolk.  Jane,  his  widow,  subsequently  remarried 
Sir  Edwin  Rich,  with  whom  she  resided  at  her  dower  House  of  Roos  Hall  through  the 
troublous  times  of  the  Rebellion.  See  Sir  John’s  Suckling’s  life  in  the  Dictionary  of  National 
Bioyraphy. 

His  three  daughters  are  buried  in  Pangbourne  Church,  Berkshire,  beneath  a  monument 
thus  inscribed  “  Within  a  vault,  under  the  marble  stones  hereunto  adjoining,  resteth  the  bodies 

of  three  sisters . Martha  was  first  marrayed  unto  Sir  George  Sowthcott  of  Shillingford  in 

the  County  of  Devon,  Knight ;  A  dyed  the  wife  of  William  Clagett,  of  Iselworth  in  the  County 
of  Middlesex,  Esquire.  She  dyed  at  the  Bathe,  29  June  1661.  Anne  was  marryed  unto  Sir 
John  Davis,  son  of  Sir  John  Davis,  both  lords  of  this  Manor,  A  dyed  the  24th  of  July  1659. 
Mary  Sucklinge  dyed  a  virgine  the  17th  of  October  1658.” 


100 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


BMill  of  buckling,  Dmt  of  JJoritricI),  1628. 

I  Edmund  Suckling,  Doctor  of  Divinity  and  Dean  of  the  Cathedral  Church  of  Norwich, 
being,  God  be  blessed  for  it,  in  good  and  perfect  understanding,  doe  make  and  ordaine  this 
my  last  Will  and  Testament  this  10th  day  of  Aprill  1628.  I  bequeath  my  soule  to  God.  And 
as  for  my  bodie,  I  bequeath  it  to  the  earth  from  whence  it  came ;  and  will  it  to  be  buried 
in  the  Cathedral  Church  of  Norwich,  under  the  stone  which  I  bought  and  laid  there  at  my 
charge.  I  give  to  every  petty  Cannon  of  that  Church  that  shall  accompany  my  body  to  my 
grave  in  their  surplices,  according  to  the  manner  and  custom  of  that  church  .  .  .  To  the 
Organist,  Episteller,  Gospellor  and  to  evei’ie  singing  man  that  shall  doe  the  like  I  give  twelve 
pence.  To  the  choiresters  for  their  attendance  eight  pence  apeece.  To  the  poore  of  Blowfield 
xxs,  and  of  Hillsden  xxs.  To  the  five  hospitalls  at  y®  gates  of  ye  citie  of  Norwich,  the 
hospitall  without  Magdalen  Gates,  and  the  prisoners  in  the  Castle  in  Norwich.  Unto  my  son- 
in-law,  John  Spendlove,  my  best  gowne  and  my  best  surplice,  and  my  mapp  of  ye  land  of 
Canaan  as  it  hangeth  in  my  studdy  at  Norwich.  To  my  son-in-law,  William  Layer,  the  picture 
of  his  mother  in  the  parlour  at  Blowfield.  Whereas  John  Law,  the  late  husband  of  Alice  my 
wife,  by  his  last  will  (1614)  hath  given  (her)  the  residue  of  his  goods  and  chattells,  upon  trust 
that  she  should  be  kind  to  his  kindred  and  at  her  death  leave  the  greater  part  thereof  uppon 
them  ...  I  doe  will  that  my  Executor,  after  the  decease  of  the  said  Alice  shall  pay  unto 
the  kindred  of  the  said  John  Law  as  the  said  Alice  ordereth. 

I  do  give  to  the  said  Alice,  my  loving  wife,  so  much  of  my  moveable  goods  as  by  an 
indifferent  Apprisement  of  two  persons,  the  one  to  be  taken  by  her,  the  other  by  my  Executor, 
shall  value  at  fower  score  pounds :  also  my  coach,  and  two  coach  horses  by  her  to  be  chosen. 
According  to  her  promise  I  will  she  shall  carefully  maintain  and  educate  Anne  Suckling  my 
daughter,  untill  said  daughter  shall  marry  or  attain  her  full  age.  Executors  to  pay  my  wife 
•£200  per  ann.  for  every  year  in  which  my  daughter  shall  so  be  maintained  and  educated. 

I  will  that  my  wife  shall  use  all  her  wearing  apparell  and  linen,  rings  and  chains  and 
braceletts  for  her  bodie,  and  such  peeces  of  old  gold  as  now  are  in  (her)  custodie,  and  a  silver 
porringer  given  unto  her  by  Anne  Layer,  my  late  sister,  and  one  silver  pot  spoone  given  to 
her  by  Elizabeth  Bavntz,  lately  also  deceased.  I  will  that  the  £5  given  to  Richard  Farrer  my 
grandchild  by  the  said  Anne  Layer  shall  be  paid  (him)  at  Shrovetide  next  ensuing  after  my 
decease.  I  doe  further  will  that  my  Executor  shall  pay  (him)  £3  when  he  shall  become  a 
Bachelor  of  Arts,  and  £4  more  when  he  become  a  Master  of  Arts.  I  give  to  Charles  Suckling,  my 

brother,  five  pounds  to  buy  him  a  piece  of  plate  in  remembrance  of  me.  I  will  that  all  the  rest 

of  my  goods  begiven  unto  Anne,  my  daughter,  and  to  my  daughter  Spendlove,  to  be  equally  divided. 

It  is  promised  unto  me  by  the  Chapter  of  this  Church  of  Norwich,  that  I  shall  have  a 
lease  made  from  (them)  unto  such  as  I  shall  name,  of  Trowse  Milles,  for  the  term  of  one 
and  twentie  yere,  so  that  I  should  be  the  better  enabled  to  make  provision  for  my  children. 
.  .  .  I  intended  to  have  given  all  my  books  in  my  studdy  in  Norwich  (and)  in  my  studdy 

at  Blowfield  unto  the  said  Dean  and  Chapter  towards  the  beginning  of  a  library.  I  shall  be 

enforced  to  forbere  that  my  good  intention  unless  it  shall  please  God  to  give  me  life  until  the 
said  lease  be  made.  In  respect  of  the  faithful  service  of  my  servant  John  Steele  I  appoint 
that  he  shall  have  paid  unto  him  six  poundes  thirteen  shillings  (and  four  pence).  This  will 
was  proved  the  3d  July  1628  by  Charles  Suckling  the  Executor  and  brother  of  the  deceased. 

P.C.C.  74  Barrington. 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


191 


Mill  of  ^lirc  (Surkling,  1652. 

Alice  Suckling  of  Norwich,  widow,  this  first  daie  of  August,  1632.  As  for  my  worldly 
goods,  I  give  to  my  brother  Mr  William  Heyward  twentie  poundes ;  to  his  daughter  Fermy 
three  poundes ;  to  his  daughter  Russells  daughter, — to  Jane  and  Anne,  to  either  of  them  three 
poundes,  and  to  Katherine  six  poundes.  I  give  to  my  cousin  Mres  Lucy  Jay,  widow,  my  little 
silver  bottle,  my  little  silver  testing  fork,  and  a  paire  of  gloves.  Unto  Mr  Suckling  Jay  my 
Bible.  Unto  her  sonne  Mr  Christopher  Jay  and  to  his  wife.  To  her  son  in  law  Mr  Cock  and 
to  his  wife.  To  Robert  Jay  a  sporiall.  To  my  godsonne  Joseph  Jay  a  double  soveraigne. 
Unto  her  daughter  Mres  Lucy  Jay  my  wrought  cushion  cloth  with  nett  work  and  spotts.  To 
Elizabeth  Jay  an  handkerchiefe  with  little  white  slips.  To  my  cousin,  Doctor  Hassall  Deane  of 
Norwich,  and  to  his  wife,  and  to  their  daughter  Mary.  To  Mr  Alderman  Barret.  Unto  my 
cousin  Lancaster,  and  to  his  wife.  To  my  sonne  in  law  Mr  John  Spendlove,  and  to  his  wife, 
and  to  their  daughter  Alice,  and  to  every  of  their  children.  Unto  Richard  Farrer  my  grand¬ 
child.  To  my  daughter  in  law  Anne  Sucklinge  two  high  stools  of  redd  Darnick,  the  little 
square  leaved  table  with  locke  and  key,  a  black  coife  and  a  forehead  clothe  wrought,  also 
savegard  clothe  and  hood,  my  brasse  Andirons  at  Carleton,  a  casting  bottle  of  silver  and  guilt, 
a  silver  porringer  with  a  cover,  a  maudlin  cupp  of  silver  with  cover,  etc.  My  brother  in  lawe, 
Charles  Sucklinge  (to)  acquite  my  Executor  of  any  clayme  for  their  parcells  of  plate  bequeathed 
vnto  her.  Ynto  my  brother  in  lawe,  Mr  Charles  Sucklinge,  and  to  his  wife,  and  to  his  sonne  Mr 
Robert  Sucklinge.  Unto  his  two  sonnes  in  law,  Mr  Archdeacon  Kent  and  Mr  Cocke,  and  to 
their  wives.  Unto  Mra  Martha  Sucklinge  my  picture  of  the  dead  man.  To  my  very  good 
friend  Mr  Corbet,  Chauncellor  of  Norwich,  my  picture  of  Christ  prayinge  on  the  mount.  To 
Mrs  Corbet  his  wife.  To  Mr  Howlett,  one  of  the  Prebendaries  of  Christ  Church,  my  picture  of 
Cain  and  Hierome.  To  Alice,  daughter  of  Mr  Eswell  of  London.  To  the  daughter  of  Mr  Ralph 
Blenerhasset.  To  Mr  William  Layer  of  Cringleford,  three  old  cushions  of  Tapistry  with  a  rose 
in  the  midst,  and  to  their  sonne,  Charles  Layer.  To  the  wife  of  Mr  William  Coppinge  the 

Elder  of  Heddingham,  my  grograine  fur’d  cloke  and  my  fawney  mantle.  I  have  given  Mr 
Theophilus  Vaughan  my  brazen  staffe,  (and)  to  his  wife  my  diamond  ringe,  Ac.  To  my 
brother,  Mr  Thomas  Heyward,  my  weddinge  ringe  with  a  diamond  stone  in  it,  my  greate 
chair  of  green  cloth  with  needle  work  slips  fringed  with  greene  silk  Ac.,  and  ten  poundes  I 
had  his  bill  for,  which  my  cousin  Vaughan  had;  (and)  to  his  wife  a  double  sovereign.  My 

cousin,  Thomas  Heyward,  his  sonne.  My  cousin  John  Heyward.  To  Thomas  Vaughan,  his. 
grandchild,  the  sonne  of  Capt.  Vaughan. 

I  have  already  fully  paid  all  legacies  Ac.  which  my  late  husband,  Mr  John  Lawe  of  the 
Cittie  of  London,  appointed  me  to  pay  unto  his  kindred,  and  have  distributed  amongst  (them) 
one  hundred  pounds  more  than  I  was  bound  to  do.  And  out  of  the  love  I  doe  beare  unto 
(them)  I  doe  bequeath  them  more  as  followeth.  I  give  to  my  cousin  Mrs  Mary  Browne,  widow, 

my  gold  braceletts,  (and)  to  her  sonne  William,  who  is  my  godson,  five  poundes.  To  my 

cousin,  Mrs  Mary  Woodhall,  daughter  of  Mr  Edmund  Woodhall  Esq.,  halfe  my  gold  chaine. 
(worth  £25)  and  the  steele  box  wherein  it  is  kept.  To  my  cousin,  Mrs  Bridget  Sothword,  the 
wife  of  Mr  Alexander  Southword,  the  other  halfe  of  the  gold  chaine,  (also  worth  £25).  To 
John  Lawe,  sonne  of  Anthony  Lawe,  tenne  poundes.  My  desire  is  to  be  buried  in  Christ 
Church  by  my  late  husband,  Dr.  Sucklinge,  Deane  of  Norwich ;  myne  Executor  to  lay  a  stone 


192 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


over  the  grave.  My  loving  friend,  Mr  William  Copping  the  Elder  of  Heddingham,  to  be  sole 
Executor,  and  my  loving  friend,  M1'  Daynes,  the  preacher  of  Beccles  to  be  Supervisor  .  .  .  . 
and  for  his  pains  I  give  him  five  poundes. 

This  will  was  proved  at  London  1  Aug.  1632,  by  the  oath  of  the  Executor. 

P.C.C.  126  Awdley. 

The  testratrix,  who  was  the  daughter  of  Thomas  Heyward  of  Thetford,  became  successively 
the  wife  of  Richard  Fulmerston,  of  John  Lawe,  D.C.L.,  Actuary  of  the  Prerogative  Court  of 
Canterbury,  and  of  Edmund  Suckling,  D.D.,  Dean  of  Norwich,  who  predeceased  her.  She  was 
great  grand-daughter  of  Thomas  Heyward,  of  Ipswich,  and  Alice  May,  who  afterwards  married 
Sir  Richard  Fulmerston  ( see  vol.  i,  p.  73),  and  is  mentioned  in  the  Heyward  pedigree  in  the 
Visitation  of  Norfolk.  Harl.  MS.  1552.  She  died,  sine  prole,  and  was  buried  at  Carlton  in 
Norfolk,  4th  Aug.  1 632.  Her  cousin,  Edmund  Woodhall,  is  named  in  the  will  of  his  mother, 
Mrs.  Mary  Woodhall,  which  will  be  found  in  volume  i,  p.  297. 


Joint  buckling,  1609 — 1641. 


Sir  John  Suckling,  the  Cavalier  Poet,  was  born  at  Whitton,  and  baptized  in  Twickenham 
Church  10th  February  1609.  He  succeeded  to  his  father’s  estates  of  Whitton  Park  and  Barsham 
Hall  in  1627.  The  following  year  he  started  on  his  travels  to  Italy,  France  and  Germany, 
afterwards  joining  the  English  volunteers  under  Gustavus  Adolphus  for  the  relief  of  the  Prince 
Palatine.  He  served  with  distinction  at  the  battle  of  Leipsic,  7th  September  1631,  and  was 
present  at  the  sieges  of  Crossen,  Guben,  Glognan  and  Madgeburg.  Returning  to  England,  he 
entered  upon  a  brilliant  social  and  literary  career.  In  1637  he  published  his  “Sessions  of  the 

Poets”  and  “Socimanism,  an  account  of  Religion  and  Reason.”  In  1638  he  produced,  at  his 
own  cost,  “  Aglaura,”  said  to  have  been  the  first  play  acted  with  scenes  in  this  Kingdom. 
Being  in  high  favour  at  Court,  especially  with  Queen  Henrietta  Maria,  their  Majesties  were 
present  at  the  first  representation.  The  gathering  of  political  clouds  was  shadowed  forth  by  the 
publication  of  “  Brennoralt  ”  in  1639,  and  when  the  national  supplies  were  refused  to  the  King, 
Sir  John  presented  His  Majesty  with  a  troop  of  a  hundred  horsemen,  clothed  and  maintained 
from  his  own  purse.  The  uniform  was  white  doublets  with  scarlet  coats  and  breeches.  ( State 

Papers,  Domestic  Series,  January  1632-9).  This  body  cost  him  XI 2,000,  which  he  raised  by  the 
sale  of  his  manor  of  Barsham  to  his  uncle,  Charles  Suckling,  of  Woodton.  With  these  men  he 
joined  the  expedition  to  the  North,  but  on  its  failure  they  were  disbanded.  Combining  with 
Henry  Percy  and  Henry  Jermyn  (afterwards  Earl  of  St.  Alban’s),  Sir  John  entered  into  a 

Royalist  plot  on  behalf  of  the  Queen,  and  by  a  Parliamentary  Proclamation,  issued  in  May 
1641,  they  were  charged  with  high  treason.  Jermyn  and  Suckling  fled  to  the  Continent,  where 
the  latter  died,  murdered  by  his  valet,  and  was  buried  in  the  Protestant  Cemetery  of  Paris, 
1641-2.  Selections  from  Sir  John  Suckling’s  works,  with  a  life  of  the  author,  by  the  Rev. 
Alfred  Suckling,  were  published  by  Longman  in  1836. 

“  The  Desposition  of  Christopher  Barrett,”  which  has  been  preserved  in  the  Muniment 
Room  at  Norwich  Castle,  throws  inteiesting  side  lights  upon  the  sale  of  Barsham  Hall.  Charles 
Suckling,  the  uncle,  found  that  he  had  paid  too  high  a  price  for  it,  the  rent  charges  and 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


193 


.annuities  considered.  Sir  John  urged  that  “one  Mr.  Riche,  who  had  married  the  Lady 
Suckling,”  would  have  procured  him  more.  But  this  was  disproved  by  a  letter  of  Mr.,  afterwards 
Sir  Edwin,  Rich.  He,  too,  had  found  the  incumbrances  upon  the  property  too  heavy.  Christopher 
Barrett’s  deposition,  taken  8th  September  1645,  gives  a  minute  account  of  a  meeting  between 
Sir  John  and  his  uncle,  at  which  he  was  invited  to  assist.  The  good  feeling  of  the  knight, 
who  was  anxious  to  end  all  matters  of  unkindness,  is  most  evident.  Mention  is  made  of 
Lionel  Suckling,  the  poet’s  younger  brother,  and  of  William  Barrett,  the  executor  of  his  father’s 
will.  The  Barretts  and  the  Sucklings  were  nearly  connected  by  the  marriage  of  Alderman 
Suckling,  of  Norwich,  with  the  widow  of  William  Barrett,  of  Westhall,  in  Suffolk.  Their 
respective  children  called  one  another  brother  and  sister,  the  Christopher  Barrett  of  the 
Deposition  having  been  especially  cared  for  by  his  stepfather.  See  Pedigree  of  Barrett  of 
Westhall  and  Norwich,  vol.  ii,  p.  160. 


Mill  of  ffiljarbs  Suckling,  1644. 

Charles  Suckling  of  Woodton,  in  the  County  of  Norfolk,  Esq.  in  the  tyme  of  his  last 
sickness  whereof  he  dyed,  in  or  about  the  moneth  of  December  1644,  did  by  word  of  mouth 

declare  his  last  will  and  testament . Whereas  he  had  formerly  given  a  great  parte  of 

his  personal  estate  to  his  sonne  Charles,  and  to  his  daughters  and  grandchildren,  for  their 
several  portions,  he  did  then  bequeath  the  overplus  and  remainder  to  his  sonne  and  heire,  Mr 
Robert  Suckling ;  there  being  then  and  there  present  Mr  George  Cock,  clerk,  Charles  Suckling 
junior  gent.,  Joseph  Fleming  and  others.  See  vol.  i,  p.  370,  and  vol.  ii,  p.  160,  for  references 
to  the  Rev.  George  Cock,  Rector  of  Barsham. 

The  above  nuncupative  will  was  proved  at  Norwich  the  10th  of  January  1645-6  by 
Robert  Suckling  Esq.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  Register,  “Alston,”  fo.  103. 


Mill  nf  limicl  ^iirkhttg,  1665. 

I  Lionel  Suckling,  borne  in  the  village  of  Whitton  in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  Esquire, 
being  in  good  health  and  memory,  doe  make  this  my  last  Will  and  Testament.  My  body  I 
bequeath  to  the  earth  from  whence  it  came,  to  be  interred  privately  and  frugally,  and  to  be 
laid  as  neere  as  possible  by  my  dearly  beloved  children  John  and  Mary  Suckling,  with  the 
Booke  of  Common  Prayer  only.  There  was  a  debt  of  £300  accrewing  to  me  from  my  brother 
Claget,  which  I  made  over  in  trust  to  my  brother  Sir  John  Davis  in  the  County  of  Barkshire, 
Knight.  I  have  taken  out  £220  of  my  principal  I  doe  therefore  dispose  of  the  odd  four¬ 
score  pounds  which  is  left  in  manner  following.  I  give  unto  my  beloved  wife  Ann  Suckling 
£50.  I  give  her  my  daughter  Mary’s  silver  caudle  cupp  and  spoone  :  also  my  Rubie  Ring  and 
my  amathest  Ring,  which  are  beset  with  little  diamonds.  I  give  her  my  owne  greate  Bible 
with  my  daughter  Mary’s  little  Bible  and  all  my  Prayer  Bookes,  desiring  her  to  be  very 
conversant  in  them,  and  to  practice  what  she  reads,  so  God  Almightie  bless  her.  But  in  case 
my  wife  should  die  before  the  month  after  my  death  be  expired,  then  I  bestow  all  uppon  my 


194 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


sweet  Neece,  the  Lady  Lee  and  her  children,  whose  beloved  husband  is  Sir  Thomas  Lee, 
Knight  and  Baronet,  liveing  at  Heartwell  in  the  County  of  Buckingham.  I  give  unto  my 

honoured  brother,  Sir  John  Davis,  and  to  his  most  virtuous  lady  mourning  rings :  (and  the 

same)  unto  Sir  Thomas  Lee  and  his  lady  bedfellow,  and  my  brother  William  Claget,  Esquire 

Unto  my  cosen  Robert  Suckling  of  Woodton  in  Norfolk  Esq.  my  silver  seale  that  has  my 
owne  cote  of  armes  upon  it.  Unto  my  noble  friend  Mr  Harrison,  that  did  live  at  his  house 
neere  the  horse  farrie,  who  has  ever  bin  most  loving  and  pleasant  unto  me,  my  gold  Ring 
which  has  His  Majesties  picture  in  it,  with  this  posie,  “  God  bless  King  Charles  from  all  his 
enemies.”  Unto  my  friend  Mr  William  Ireland,  my  mourning  ringe  which  I  soe  continually  did 
weare  for  my  Lady  sister.  Unto  the  widow  Juxon,  who  was  very  careful  of  me  in  my  great 
fitt  of  sicknesse  xxs.  Unto  my  good  cousin  Chapman,  and  my  cousin  Cooper  her  daughter, 
.  .  .  Angels  apiece  in  gold.  My  cousin  Croftes  Unto  Jane,  a  married  woman  who  tended  my  son 
John  Suckling  when  he  had  the  smallpox.  The  rest  of  my  estate  I  give  unto  my  worthy 
kinsman,  M*  Hugh  Hassall,  that  is  every  day  uppon  the  old  Exchange.  And  now  I  have  a 
little  quieted  my  soule  in  the  manifold  disquietings  of  this  world,  I  desire  the  Lord  God  of 
all  glory  to  showere  down  His  blessings  uppon  my  deare  wife,  brother,  and  sisters,  and  all  my 
friends  and  kindreds;  soe  I  take  my  leave;  and  now'  come  Lord  Jesus.  Amen  and  Amen.  I 
have  hereunto  putt  my  hande  and  seale  this  19th  day  of  August  1665. 

This  will  was  proved  in  Sept.  1665  by  Anne  Suckling  the  relict.  The  original  is  filed 

in  the  Court  of  Westminster. 


ffitill  of  Jltarg  Jinckltng,  1671. 

Mary  Suckling  of  Barsham  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  relict  of  diaries  Suckling  late  of 
Bracondale  near  Norwich,  this  8th  day  of  April,  1671.  I  give  unto  Mathew  Lemon  of  Weston 
in  Suffolk,  gent.,  besides  what  he  hath  already  at  his  inter  marriage  with  Mary  my  elder 
daughter,  the  sum  of  £100  upon  her  releasing  land  and  estate  which  descended  to  her  from 

her  father,  and  all  her  share  out  of  Mangreen  other  than  the  £100  aforesaid ;  to  be  raised  by 

sale  after  the  death  of  my  aunt  Aldrich. 

I  give  to  my  daughters  Ruth  (and)  Elizabeth  (to  each)  the  sum  of  £1000,  to  be  paid 
on  (their)  days  of  marriages  or  (their)  ages  of  one  and  twenty  years.  To  my  daughter  Lucy 
that  title  and  interest  on  lands  which  was  their  father’s  at  her  age  of  twenty  one  or  day  of 
marriage,  to  the  full  value  of  £1400  of  her  portion.  To  my  loving  friend  Robert  Suckling  the 

younger  of  Woodton,  gent.,  Edward  Osborne,  and  Charles  Foster  of  S'  Margarets  ....  gent., 

who  according  to  the  directions  of  my  late  husband  I  appoint  my  executors,  all  my  reversions 

and  rights  out  of  the  estate  near  Norwich  called  Mangreen,  and  in  possession  of  my  aunt 

Aldrich,  and  my  estate  in  Swardeston,  Dunstall,  and  Markshall  Paston ;  said  executors  to  sell 
the  same  to  pay  the  aforesaid  legacies,  and  to  divide  the  residue  after  my  daughters  Ruth, 

Elizabeth,  and  Lucie  equally.  I  give  £6  to  the  poor  of  bracondale  and  Lakenham  and  both 

the  Trowses ;  and  my  body  to  be  decently  buried  by  my  dearest  husband. 

This  will  was  proved  24  July,  1680. 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


195 


Will  of  S>ir  ffiDfmit  Kiel),  1675. 

In  the  Name  of  God,  Amen,  I  Edwin  Rich  of  Lincoln’s  Inn  in  the  county  of  Middlesex, 
Knight,  this  24th  day  of  April,  1675,  knowing  my  life  is  like  an  hower  glasse,  and  my  riches 

like  the  sand  in  it  which  runs  with  me  no  longer  than  I  continue  here,  and  then  must  be 

turned  up  by  another,  have  thought  good  to  sett  my  house  in  order,  Ac.  .  .  .  First  I  bequeath 
my  Soule  unto  God,  and  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  Church  of  Mulbarton  in  Norfolk,  in  a 
vault  which  I  have  prepared  for  that  purpose.  I  give  unto  my  good  friendes,  Sir  James 
Butler,  Sir  John  Churchhill,  Sir  John  Shaw,  Knt8,  and  to  George  Day,  Thomas  Manby,  Edward 
Atkins  and  George  Townsend  Esqrs  and  to  Mr  Goodrich,  Chaplain  of  Lincoln’s  Inn,  a  ring  of 
the  value  of  40s  apeece ;  these  words  “  Statutum  est  ”  to  be  inscribed  in  every  one  of  (them). 
To  my  sister  Elizabeth  Rich  twenty  marks.  To  my  neece  Elizabeth  Civill  £20,  and  to  my 
neece  Mary  Rich  £200,  on  her  day  of  marriage.  To  my  brother  Richard  Rich  £100.  To  the 
poore  of  the  ancient  Burrough  of  Thetford,  the  place  of  my  nativity,  <£20  for  fyve  hundred  years, 
to  be  distributed  in  bread  or  cloth  upon  the  24th  day  of  December  by  the  Maior,  to  be  paid 
out  of  my  lands  in  Suffolk  called  Rose  Hall  Farm,  These  and  all  my  landes  in  Suffolk  I  had 
by  marriage  with  the  Lady  Suckling,  my  loving  and  beloved  wife.  I  do  will  to  the  city  of 
Norwich  £50  for  the  relief  of  the  poore ;  to  the  poore  of  Beckles  £20,  to  be  distributed  in 
bread  on  the  24th  of  December;  to  the  poore  of  Mulbarton  £100,  and  £5  more  vpon  the  day 
of  my  buriall  there ;  and  £5  to  the  poore  of  Enfield.  I  give  £50  to  the  amending  of  the 

London  highway  beyond  Colchester  called  the  Severalls.  Unto  Trinity  Coll,  in  Cambridge  the 

Polyglott  Bible  and  the  Heptaglott  Lexicon  conteyning  eight  volumes,  to  remain  allwayes  in 
the  Library  of  that  College.  I  doe  give  all  the  residue  of  my  estate,  both  real  and  personal, 
unto  my  brother  Charles  Rich  and  his  heirs.  And  I  doe  make  him  my  heir  and  executor  .  .  . 
and  have  left  with  him  wherewith  (to)  reward  his  children  and  grandchildren  according  to 
their  demeritts.  And  now  I  beseech  God  Almighty  to  direct  my  Executors  in  the  faithful 
performance  of  this  my  will.  And  when  my  foresaid  legacies  and  bequests  are  all  paid,  I  shall 
leave  enough  wherewith  to  make  a  Blaze  in  the  world ;  but  I  hope  better  things,  and  end  as 
I  began,  in  the  Name  of  God,  Amen. 

Proved  in  the  Prerogative  Court  of  Canterbury  1675. 


Mill  of  Kobert  J^nckltng,  16S1. 

I  Robert  Suckling  do  make  this  my  last  will  and  Testament.  I  desire  to  be  buried  by 
my  first  loving  wife,  Dame  Anne  Wodehouse,  in  the  Chancel  of  Woodton  Church,  hoping 
hereafter  to  be  a  partaker  in  the  glorious  and  happy  resurrection.  I  bequeath  to  my  eldest 
son,  Robert  Suckling,  all  lands  in  Woodton,  Topcroft,  Bedingham,  Brooke,  Kyrsted,  Langhall, 
Seethinge,  Ditchingham  Broome  and  Trowse,  in  the  county  of  Norfolk ;  and  in  Barsham,  Ship- 
meadow,  Ringsfield,  Beccles,  S1  Andrews,  Ac.,  in  Suffolk.  Also  I  give  to  his  use  the  Marshes 
at  Haddiscoe,  wherein  Mr  Love  of  Lystand  and  my  father,  Mr  Charles  Suckling,  were  partners ; 
also  Tyndall  Wood  and  Sexton  Wood,  which  I  purchased  of  the  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  an 


196 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ozier  ground  and  meadow  in  Barsham  called  Capon’s  Dole.  My  mind  is  that  my  wife  shall 
have  my  house  at  Trowse  Newton,  and  after  her  decease  to  the  use  of  my  son  Horatio,  and 
if  he  be  dead  then  to  my  son  William.  I  bequeath  unto  my  said  son  William  £500,  when  he 
comes  out  of  his  apprentiship.  I  ordain  my  eldest  son  Robert  my  Executor ;  to  whom  I  give 
all  my  estate,  and  my  Chambers  in  Gray’s  Inn. 

I  give  to  Blanch  Scotlowe  £100  at  her  day  of  marriage.  Given  under  my  hand  and 
seal,  1684. 

This  will  was  proved  at  Norwich. 


Will  of  Eokrt  buckling,  1707. 

Robert  Suckling  of  Woodton,  Esqr.,  1707.  To  my  son  Shelton  Suckling  all  my  land  in 
Bedingham  Topcroft,  and  after  his  decease  to  his  first  born  son,  Capel  Suckling,  and  to  his  heirs. 

To  my  son  Henry  Suckling  and  his  heirs  one  tenement  and  lands  in  Bedingham  Topcroft, 
late  of  Robert  Sullows.  To  my  son  Edmund  Suckling  4'400.  To  my  son  John  Suckling  £600, 
so  soon  as  his  apprenticeship  is  expired.  To  my  daughter  Sarah  £1000  for  Her  fortune.  To 
my  son  Philip  £500  when  aged  twenty  one  years.  To  my  son  Maurice  £40  and  to  my  son 
Charles  £20. 

My  son  Robert  to  be  my  executor :  and  my  mind  is  that  he  shall  give  my  son  Maurice 
the  next  presentation  of  my  living  at  Barsham,  if  he  outlives  the  present  incumbent.  I  bequeath 
to  (him)  all  lands  reserved  out  of  the  settlement  made  upon  his  (Robert’s)  marriage  with 
Mrs  Dorothea  Berney,  except  what  is  here  bequeathed,  all  his  lands  in  Woodton,  and  Woods 
called  Tyndall  and  Seglow  in  Ditchingham  and  Hedenley  (he)  to  pay  legacies,  &c.,  &c. 

This  will  was  proved  18  April  1709.  Cur.  Ep.  Norwia,  Wills  1709,  fo.  57. 


Mill  of  JRauritt  Shtrkltng,  1.1.,  1727. 

I,  Maurice  Suckling  of  Barsham  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  clerk,  being  of  sound  mindr 
&c.  .  .  .  First  I  resign  my  soul  to  Almighty  God,  who  gave  it.  My  body  to  Christian  burial 
in  as  private  a  manner  as,  <fec.  I  give  unto  Anne  Suckling,  my  dearly  beloved  wife  for  the 
term  of  her  natural  life,  &c.,  in  confidence  of  her  goodness  that  she  will  perform  all  the  best 
meaning  of  this  my  will ;  that  she  shall  equally  divide  all  such  temporal  things  and  estates  as 
are  bequeathed  to  her  to  all  my  children  that  shall  be  living  at  her  decease.  I  appoint  (her) 
sole  executor.  Signed  and  sealed  this  13th  of  November  1727. 

The  testator  was  the  grandfather  of  Lord  Nelson.  The  will  of  Anne  Suckling,  his  widow,, 
will  be  found  on  page  199.  She  and  her  husband  and  her  two  sons,  William  Suckling  and 
Maurice  Suckling,  Nelson’s  favourite  uncle,  were  all  interred  in  the  chancel  of  Barsham  Church, 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


197 


Mill  uf  Itenpl  Hmklutg,  1744. 

Testator  wills  to  his-  son,  Robert  Suckling,  all  his  Manors,  &c.,  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk, 
and  all  lands  and  tenements. 

If  at  his  decease  his  wife  be  with  child,  she  is  to  hold  the  estates  in  trust  for  it.  If 
there  are  no  children  he  gives  her  estates  for  life,  with  remainder  to  Horace  Suckling  his 
brother  &  the  heirs  of  his  body.  Failing  these,  to  Maurice,  eldest  son  of  Maurice  Suckling  his 
late  uncle :  then  to  the  sons  of  said  Maurice,  according  to  seniority ;  and  failing  them  and  their 

issue,  to  the  right  heirs  of  him,  the  said  Denzil  Suckling  :  subject,  however,  to  the  payment  of  annuity, 

due  to  Dorothy  his  mother,  and  to  Hannah  his  wife,  by  the  deed  of  settlement  upon  her  marriage. 

If  Robert  my  son  die  without  issue,  then  to  Hannah  my  wife  £1000,  to  be  paid  from 
lands  in  Barsham,  in  Suffolk.  If  Horace  Suckling,  or  my  cousin  Maurice  Suckling,  should  come 
into  possession,  they  to  pay  to  my  sister  Mary  Howman  £100  yearly.  In  default  of  these  heirs 
Mary  Howman  to  inherit  my  estates. 

To  Sophia  Bright,  spinster,  an  annuity  of  £20,  out  of  the  malt  house  farm  in  Woodton, 
to  be  paid  in  the  north  porch  of  the  parish  church. 

I  appoint  Hannah  my  wife,  while  she  remains  unmarried,  Thomas  Thurston  of  Ipswich, 
Peter  Pullyn  the  elder  of  Halesworth,  and  Joshua  Grigby  of  Bury  Sl  Edmunds,  gent., 
guardians  to  my  son’s  estate  until  he  comes  of  age ;  they  to  be  careful  to  bring  him  up  in 
the  principles  of  the  Church  of  England,  and  in  a  manner  suitable  to  his  birth  and  fortune 

I  will  that  James  Jermyn  of  Halesworth,  Esq.,  be  steward  of  the  Courts  of  the  Manor  of 

Barsham.  Trustees  and  Guardians  to  be  paid  for  their  trouble,  and  necessary  charges  in  travel. 

I  nominate  Hannah  my  wife,  Robert  my  son,  and  James  Jermyn,  executors  of  my  will. 
Wife  to  have  liberty  to  dwell  at  Woodton  Hall.  My  collection  of  books  to  be  kept  for  my 
son,  to  whom  I  leave  the  residue  of  my  goods.  I  give  to  the  Trustees  and  Guardians  who 
act  £20  apiece  for  mourning.  I  leave  to  my  wife  all  her  paraphernalia,  and  all  her  apparel 
and  ornaments,  and  also  my  coach  and  chariot,  and  four  of  my  best  coach  horses. 

During  my  son’s  minority  my  wife  to  appoint  a  steward  of  a  good  character,  reputable 
and  knowing  in  the  law,  to  keep  all  Courts.  I  give  to  Horace  Suckling  my  brother  and  Mary 
Howman  my  sister  £10  apiece  to  buy  them  mourning.  I  desire  to  be  carried  to  the  grave  by 
six  of  my  tenants,  and  that  a  monument  be  erected  for  me,  and  that  £25  be  laid  out  thereon, 
and  no  more.  Dated  this  10th  day  of  October,  1744. 


Mill  of  lorotljy  buckling,  1747. 

I,  Dorothy  Suckling,  of  Ditchingham  in  the  County  of  Norfolk,  widow  of  Robert  Suckling, 
late  of  Woodton,  Esq.,  declare  this  to  be  my  last  will  and  testament.  I  commend  my  soul 
into  the  merciful  hands  of  God,  my  Creator ;  and  my  body  I  commit  to  the  earth  to  be  buried 
at  the  discretion  of  my  daughter  Mary,  wife  of  my  son  in  law  Roger  Howman.  I  give  to 
Robert  Suckling  and  Richard  Suckling,  my  sons,  (to  each)  two  guineas.  To  Horace  Suckling 
my  son  my  gold  watch,  and  an  annuity  of  £15.  To  John  Berney,  Esq.,  of  Swardiston  co. 
Norfolk,  whom  I  name  my  Executor,  £10  for  his  trouble.  All  the  rest  I  give  to  the  said 

John  Berney,  his  executors,  &c.,  for  Mary  Howman  my  daughter,  Dorothea  Howman  my  grand¬ 
daughter,  and  Edward  Howman  my  grandson.  If  these  die,  their  portion  to  be  paid  to  Horace 

Suckling  my  son.  This  will  was  proved  at  Norwich,  23  Jan.  1747,  by  John  Berney  the  Executor. 


198 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


mill  nf  (fltjabrtlj  Snrklutg,  1755. 

Elizabeth  Suckling,  widow,  of  the  parish  of  Sl  Andrew’s,  Norwich,  this  12th  da}’  of 
December,  1755.  My  desire  is  that  I  am  privately  buried  att  Wood  ton  in  the  county  of 
Norfolk  by  my  Executrix.  After  paying  my  funeral!  charges,  T  give  the  rest  of  my  personal 
estate  to  my  neece  Mrs  Mary  Howman,  and  unto  my  neece  Mrs  Ann  Berney,  to  be  equally 
divided  between  them.  I  appoint  my  neece  Mrs  Mary  Howman  my  sole  Executrix  of  this  my 
last  will  and  testament.  Elizabeth  Suckling. 

Jeremiah  Bigsby  Stedman  of  Bungey  in  Suffolk,  draper’,  and  James  Jermyn  of  Halsworth 
in  the  said  county,  Gent.,  make  oath  that  the  signature  is  in  (the)  hand,  which  they  do  know 
well,  (of)  Elizabeth  Suckling,  heretofore  of  the  city  of  Norwich,  (but)  late  of  Bungey,  widow. 
Bungey,  9th  March,  1765. 

The  testatrix  was  widow  of  Colonel  Shelton  Suckling  of  Shipmeadow  Hall  in  the  County 
of  Suffolk,  wdio  was  buried  at  Woodton  7th  July  1747. 


Still  of  Captain  Jttantm  Hucklutg,  1764. 

I  give  to  my  brother  William  Suckling  my  messuages,  lands  and  tenements  in  Barsham, 
Winfarthing  and  Diss ;  (he  to)  pay  to  Mrs  Mary  Turner,  granddaughter  of  Sir  Charles  Turner, 
£30  a  year.  And  I  give  unto  the  IT  Hon.  Dowager  Lady  Walpole,  mother  of  my  late  wife, 
the  sum  of  £100  in  token  of  my  duty  and  affection  for  her.  And  in  grateful  remembrance  of 
the  obligations  received  by  me  from  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  and  the  friendship  shown  to  me  by 

that  family,  I  bestow  the  following  legacies : — To  the  IT  Hon :  the  Earl  of  Orford ;  to  Lord 

and  Lady  Walpole  of  Wolterton ;  to  the  Rfc  Hon  :  Sir  Edward  Walpole,  Knight  of  the  Bath ; 
to  the  Hon:  Horatio  Walpole,  his  brother;  to  Lady  Mary  Churchill  and  the  Hon:  Thomas 
Walpole ;  to  the  Hon:  Richard  Walpole  and  his  lady;  to  the  Hon:  Miss  Harriet  Walpole  and 
the  Hon  :  Miss  Anne  Walpole ;  to  the  Hon  :  Horace  Walpole,  the  eldest  son  of  the  said  Lord 
Walpole,  the  respective  sums  of  £100  apiece.  To  the  Hon:  Robert  Walpole,  youngest  brother 
of  the  said  Lord  Walpole,  £1000;  and  to  the  Hon:  Miss  Catherine  Walpole,  eldest  daughter  of 
the  said  Lord  Walpole,  £1500.  If  any  of  these  legaties  die,  the  legacy  to  be  given  to  my 
brother  William  Suck  line 

I  give  unto  ....  Nelson,  ....  Nelson  ....  and  ....  Nelson  (so  in  the  will) 

the  sum  of  £1000  apiece  when  they  shall  attain  their  ages  of  twenty  one  years.  To  my 

nephew,  Maurice  Nelson,  eldest  son  of  my  late  sister  Nelson.  To  all  other  the  sons  of  my  late 
sister  Nelson  that  shall  be  living  at  my  decease  the  respective  sums  of  £500  apiece,  and  £150 
apiece  at  the  age  of  twenty  one  years.  I  bequeath  the  reside  of  my  estate  to  my  brother 
William  Suckling. 

Lord  Walpole  of  Wolterton  and  William  Suckling  are  named  as  executors. 

Captain  Maurice  Suckling  was  M.P.  for  Portsmouth  and  Comptroller  of  the  Navy  when 
he  died  in  17/8.  He  was  eldest  son  of  Maurice  Suckling,  D.D.,  by  Anne,  daughter  of  Sir 
Charles  turner,  Bart.,  and  was  born  at  the  Rectory  House  of  Barsham  in  1726.  Entering  the 
navy  under  the  auspices  of  his  mother’s  kinsman,  George  Townshend  (of  the  siege  of  Bastia 
fame),  he  early  rose  in  the  service.  When  in  command  of  the  “  Dreadnought,”  attended  by 
the  “Augusta”  and  “Edinburgh,”  he  fought  an  action  off  Cape  St.  Francois,  in  1757,  paralleled 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


199 


only  by  his  nephew  Nelson’s  achievements.  This  took  place  on  the  21st  of  October,  the  day 
of  the  great  victory  of  Trafalgar,  and  Nelson  alluded  to  it  at  the  commencement  of  that 
memorable  engagement. 

Anne  Suckling,  Captain  Suckling’s  mother,  and  Catherine  Nelson,  his  sister,  died  within 
a  few  days  of  one  another.  The  Captain,  at  this  time  of  double  mourning,  promised  to  take 
care  of  one  of  the  Nelson  boys.  Three  years  afterwards  Horatio,  being  home  for  the  Christmas 
holidays,  saw  his  uncle’s  appointment  to  the  “  Raisonable  ”  of  64  guns  in  the  county  paper. 
“Do,  William,”  he  said  to  his  brother,  “write  to  my  father  and  tell  him  I  should  like  to  go 
to  sea  with  uncle  Maurice.” 

Captain  Suckling  was  written  to.  “What,”  said  he  in  answer,  “has  poor  Horatio  done, 
who  is  so  weak,  that  he  above  all  the  rest  should  be  sent  to  rough  it  at  sea  1  But  bid  him 

come,  and  the  first  time  we  go  into  action  a  cannon  ball  may  knock  off  his  head,  and  provide 

for  him  at  once.” 

In  the  desperate  boat  action  off  Santa  Cruz,  in  which  Nelson  lost  his  arm,  he  received 
a  shot  through  the  right  elbow,  but  as  he  fell  he  caught  the  sword,  which  he  had  just  drawn, 

in  his  left  hand,  determined  never  to  part  with  it,  for  it  had  belonged  to  his  uncle,  Captain 

Maurice  Suckling.  And  writing  to  his  uncle  William  Suckling,  Comptroller  of  Customs,  on 
July  5th,  1788,  Horatio  says,  “I  trust  I  shall  prove  myself  worthy  of  the  place  in  the  service 
of  nry  country  which  my  dear  uncle  (Maurice)  left  me.  I  feel  myself  to  my  country  his  heir, 
and  it  shall,  I  am  bold  to  say,  never  lack  the  want  of  his  council.” 

When  the  bells  of  Barsham  church  were  re-hung  in  1896,  a  new  one,  bearing  a  suitable 
inscription,  was  added  in  memory  of  Captain  Maurice  Suckling  at  the  joint  expense  of  the 
Rev.  Robert  Alfred  Suckling,  lord  of  the  manor,  Horatio,  third  Earl  Nelson,  and  Captain 
Thomas  Suckling,  R  N. 


Mill  nf  Amu  Smfeling,  1767. 

This  is  the  last  Will  and  Testament  of  Anne  Suckling  of  Burnham  Thorpe,  widow, 
20th  Dec.  1767.  I  desire  to  be  buried  in  a  plain  manner,  without  pall  bearers,  in  the  Chancel 
(of)  Barsham  near  Beccles,  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  and  under  the  same  stone  where  the 

remains  of  the  Reverend  Doctor  Suckling,  my  late  husband,  are  interred.  My  funerall  expenses- 
and  all  my  just  debts  to  be  paid  as  soon  after  my  death  as  possible.  The  remainder  of  the 
£300  in  the  hands  of  William  Suckling,  my  sonne,  I  bequeath  as  follows : — The  income  arising 
therefrom  to  be  paid  to  my  daughter,  Catherine  Nelson,  for  her  sole  use  during  her  life,  and 
after  her  decease  to  be  equally  divided  among  my  granddaughters  Susannah,  Anne  and  Catherine 
Nelson.  I  give  to  my  grandson  Maurice  Nelson,  my  pearl  backed  watch ;  to  Susannah  Nelson 
my  six  gilt  tea  spoons ;  to  my  granddaughter  Anne  my  old  purse  containing  some  gold  medals. 
Also  to  my  son  William  Suckling  a  parcel  of  freehold  land  containing  five  acres  in  or  near 

Beccles.  My  household  furniture,  plate,  china,  and  wearing  apparel  I  give  to  my  daughter 

Catherine  Nelson.  The  rest  of  my  real  and  personal  estate  (I  give)  to  my  three  children, 

William  Suckling,  Maurice  Suckling,  and  Catherine  Nelson,  share  and  share  alike.  And  I 
appoint  my  son  William  Suckling  Executor  and  Trustee.  Witnesses : — Sarah  Bowers,  Richard 
Raven,  John  Smith  Junr. 


200 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


prturjrrc,  I>nrl. 


1552,  fol  121. 


Arms  : — Per  pale  Gules  and  Azure  three  bucks  trippant  Or ;  a  martlet  for  difference. 
Crest  : — A  buck  courant  Or,  holding  in  the  mouth  a  branch  of  honeysuckle  proper. 


Richard  Suckling  of  Wottonin  Norff  :=p.  .  .  d.  of  Swany  of  Com.  York. 


i - -  ' 

Elizebeth  vx  Tho  :  Rochester  of  Norwich. 


Joane  vx  .  .  .  Lyng  of  Nonvich. 


- 1 

James  vx  .  .  .  Markes  of  Barfold  in  Com.  Su>ff : 


Elizebeth  d.  of  .  .  .  Barwick  of  Suff  :  1.  wife.-=f=l.  Rob  :  Suckling  of  Norwich.^  Jane  d.  of  Wm.  Cardinall  of  Brumley  in  Essex,  2.  wife.  2.  John. 


:  i 

Anne  vx  Thom :  Mary  vx  Hasshold 

Layer  of  Nonvich.  of  London. 


4.  Charles  of  Wootton  in 
Norff.  m. 


-Mary  d.  Sf  coheire  of  Stephen 
Drury  of  Aylesham  in  Norff. 


i  “l 

Christofer.  Thomas. 


Elizebeth  vx  Charles  Maude  vx  3.  John. 
Cardinall  of  Dedham  Peter  Glene 

in  Com  :  Essex.  of  Norwich. 


— ~l - 

Luce  vx. 
Hassell  of 
London. 


1.  Edmond 
Docter  of 
Divinity. 


2.  Robert  at 
Campaigne 
in  France. 


~\  r  t  T  n  1 

Francis.  Charles.  Anne.  Mury. 


Robert. 


Lucey. 


fieWgm  from  tljr  Cantilrr 

{Arms)  : — Suckling :  parted  p :  pale  G.  Sf  B.  in  Bucks  passant  Or.  Cranfield.  Arg.  on  a  pale  B.  in  flouer  de  Lace  of  the 
lst  ...  .  quartered,  with  a  Bend  B.  Hi  martletts  Or. 


Robert  Suckling  twice  Mciior  of  Norwich.  He  lies  buried  in  S*  Andrews  church  in  Norwich,  1589,  Sf 
hath  an  hansome  monument :  he  had  by  his  1st  wife  5  sonnes  5  daughters  all  liueing  at  the  time  of 
his  death.  Erat  vir  magnse  prudentiee  ac  pietatis  :  ( so  in  the  mont ) . 


Sr  John  Suckling  Knt,  commonly  called- 
old  Sr  John  Suckling,  youngest  sone  of 
Robert ;  he  was  sometimes  secretary  to 
Tho :  E.  of  Dorset,  L.  Treasurer. 


Sf  John  Suckling  yl  gave  100  horse 
to  K.  Charles  in  the  beginning  of  his 
1st  warre  with  Scotland. 


- Martha  daughter  of  Thomas  Cranfield,  marchant  in  London. 
She  lies  buried  under  a  faire  tombe  in  Sl  Andreiv’s  church  in  Nor- 
wich,  whereon  her  picture  lies  at  Length  her  husband’s  by 
her  in  armour. 


Charles =p= 
Suckling 
Esq.  of 
Barsham. 


- 1 

Elizabeth,  married 
to  Charles  Cardin- 
all  of  g.  Bromley 
in  Essex. 


Robert  Suckling  of  Barsham 
Escfi.  =p 

A 


- ! - 

.  .  .  married  to  .  .  .  Bacon, 
sonne  of  Sr  Robert  Bacon  of 
Ryeborrow,  baronet. 


.  .  .  married  to  George  Cocke, 
rector  of  Barsham. 


Harl.  MS.  6071,  p.  466. 


Rose  hall  in  Beckles  did  antiently  belong  to  ye  ...  .  of  Colbye,  afterwards  to  old  Sr  John  Suckling  Knt,  whose  widow 
married  Mr  Edwyn  Rich,  sonne  of  Sr  Edwyn  Rich  who  was  brother  to  ye  old  Lord  Rich.  Mr  Ed/ivyn  Rich  is  now  owner  of 
it  this  year,  1656.  Add.  MS.  15,620,  p.  322. 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


201 


Cjrmpt,  J^uritUng  Pe&tcjm, 

18,480. 


Philip  Swelling ,  1430. =E Johanna,  surviving  1449. 


Stephen  Suckling ,  living  at  Woodton ,  1479.=f 

I 

i - 1 

John  Suckling. =j= 


John  Suckling: =p Alice  survived  her  husband. 

I 

i - 1 

Robert  Suckling  ob(  1539.= p 


Richard  Suckling,  oh1  1551=yJane  dr  of  Swaney  of  Yorkshire. 


This  Pedigree  examined  and  allowed 
by  Ralph  Bigland  Esq1',  Clarenceux 
King  at  Arms,  and  entered  in  the 
records  of  the  Heralds’  College. 


Thomas  Suckling,  of  Woodton  and  Langhall,  Nor¬ 
folk,  admitted  to  certain  estates  in  1348.  John 
Suckling  held  the  same  lands  1353. 

Pedigree,  Suckling’s  History  of  Suffolk,  vol.  i. 


T 

John  Suckling. 


- 1 

Nicholas  Suckling. 


I - - - - 

Eliz.  dr  of-rR  o  b  e  r  t=f=Johanna  dr  of  William 
Will™  Suckling  Cardinall  of  Bromley 
Berwick.  \  obt  1589.  co.  Essex. 


A 


A 


John 

Suckling. 


T 

Johanna 
—  Ling 
of  Norwich. 


~r  “i  r 

Elizabeth  =  Agnes, 

to  Thos  Ro-  — 

Chester.  Cicely. 


Fayne  = 
Markes  of 
Barford. 


Snscrijjttans  tit  Sarsljam  ODIjanceL 

“  Barsliam.  Within  the  altar  rails  lies  Dr  Maurice  Suckling,  the  maternal  grandfather  of 
the  heroic  Nelson.” 

Hie  jacet 

Maur  Suckling  S.T.P., 

Nuper  hujus  Parochise  Rector, 

Necnon  de  Woodton  in  Com :  Norf : 

Unus  e  Prebendis  Sacra;  Ecclesise  Westmoh. 

Ob:  Sep:  21°  Anno  Dom  :  1730°,  HStat.  54°. 

Uxorem  duxit  An  :  Fil :  Natu  Max  : 

Caroli  Turner  Barnbi  de  Warham  in  Com  :  Norf : 

Quie  hoc  posuit  Marmor. 

“  Above  the  inscription  are  the  arms  of  Suckling  impaling  Turner.” 

M.S.  Horatii  Suckling  Gehsl  /  Roberti  Suckling  de  Woodton  in  Com  :  Norf :  Armigeri  et 
Dorothea;  Uxoris  ejus  /  jamjam  defunctorum  Filij  natu  minimi,  /  Qui  cum  ad  tricesimum 
octavum  setatis  annum,  /  vix  seger  pervenisset  /  morbo  indies  ingravescente  /  correptus  Augusti 
die  decimo  quinto  Salutis  /  Anno  MDCCLI  /  nuptiarum  et  genialis  tori  inexpertus  /  animam 
<expiravit  suam 


Add.  MS.  18,476,  p.  52. 


202 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


}3riJigrrr,  Jsurftltwj;  of  2Moot>ton. 


John  Suckling  the  elder,  descended  from  a  family  of  landowners  long  settled  at  Woodton,' 
co.  Norfolk ;  purchased  Eastgate  field  in  that  parish,  as  stated  in  the  “  Disposition  of 
John  Manclarke,”  quondam  penes  A.  I.  Suckling,  the  Suffolk  historian. 


Robert  Suckling,  merchant ;  ob. 
1539 ;  bur.  in  SS.  Simon  and 
Jude’s  Church,  Norwich. 


John  Suckling  als.  Easthall,  of  Woodton.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.=Aliee,  his  wife,  to  whom  he  devised  Biggottes,  . Suckling, =p 

Reg.  Walpole,  fo.  126,  18  July  1553;  left  his  Woodton  estates  to  in  Woodton.  By  a  deed,  14  Dec.  1555,  she  brother  to  John 
Robert  Suckling,  of  Norwich :  names  Agnes,  wife  of  John  Suck-  released  this  and  Eastgate  field  to  Robert  Suckling  of  Wood- 
ling,  John  and  Elizabeth  their  children,  and  the  children  of  Suckling,  of  Norwich,  grandson  of  her  hus-  ton;  named  in 
Fryer  and  Mayes  of  East  Bergholt.  Ob.  s.p.  band’s  brother.  deed  1555. 


Richard  Suckling,  Alderman  of  Norwich.  Will,  Cur.- 
Ep.  Norw.,  17  Sept.  1551,  bequeathing  lands  in  Wood- 
ton,  and  making  John  Estawe  supervisor.  Witness  to 
Will  of  John  Swayne  1548,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 


Agnes  and  Cicely 
Suckling,  living 
1551,  and  named 
in  their  father’s 
Will. 


Joan,  namedinher  father’s  Will; 
mar.  John  Ling,  of  Norwich,  3 
Feb.  1543,  at  SS.  Simon  and 
Jude’s  Church  ;  had  issue  Rich¬ 
ard,  Nicholas,  and  Katherine. 


=Joan,  dau.  of  John  Swayne,  whose 
will  was  proved  1548.  She  ob. 
1577,  and  is  bur.  in  SS.  Simon  and 
Jude’s  Church,  Norwich. 


John  Suckling, 
named,  1551,  in 
his  brother  Rich¬ 
ard’s  Will. 


Nicholas  Suckling,  nam-=j= 
ed  in  his  brother’s  Will ; 
had  by  Amy,  his  wife, 
a  son. 


Jane,  mar . Markes, 

of  East  Bergholt,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk.  Is  called  Mayes  in 
her  father’s  and  great 
uncle’s  Wills.  Had  issue. 


Elizabeth,  mar.,  1,  Nicholas  Fryer, 
2,  Thomas  Rochester.  She  had 
issue  Robert  and  Richd.  Fryer,  and 
a  dau.  Elizabeth  Fryer,  whose  Will 
was  proved  in  Aug.  1589. 


John  Suckling,  of 
Norwich ;  had  by 
Agnes,  his  wife,  a 
son  John  and  dau. 
Elizabeth  ;  made 
Will  1559. 


Elizabeth,  1st  wife, -p Robert  Suckling,  el — Margaret,  2d  wife,  dau.=j=Joan,  3d  wife,  dau.  BlytlieHerne,~John  Suckling, - 


dau.  of  Adam  Bar- 
wick  of  G.  Bergholt ; 
mar.  at  St.  Andrew’s, 
Norwich, 9  Feb. 1551; 
bur.  there  3  June 
1569  ;  named  in  her 
father’s  Will,  1552. 


Richard  Suckling, 
eldest  son ;  bur', 
in  St.  Andrew’s 
Church,  Norwich, 
27  Dec.  1580;  ob. 
s.p. 


Lucy,  bapt.  1550; 
mar.  1572Percival 
Hassell, and  had  13 
children,  and  was 
bur.  in  St.  Peter’s, 
Cornhill.  He  died 
in  1601. 


dest  son,  born  1520 ; 
Mayor  of  Norwich  ; 
M.P.  15  Eliz.  Will 
proved  24  Oct.  1590, 
P.C.C.;  bur.  in  St. An¬ 
drew’s  church ;  mon¬ 
ument  there  and  M.I. 


of  Tho.  Pettingall  and 
wo.  successively  ofWm. 

Wingfield,  Willm.  Bar¬ 
rett  and  Richd.  Head; 
mar.  1569  ;  bur.  at  St. 

George’s,  Tombland ; 
issue  dead. 

Suckling  of  Barsham. 


A 


of  William  Cardin- 
all,  of  Bromley,  co. 
Essex,  and  widow 
of  Robert  Vesey, 
of  Wix,  mar.  19 
Nov.  1577. 


1st  wife ;  mar. 
2  Dec.  1549; 
bur.  in  SS.  Si¬ 
mon  &  Jude’s 
church,  Nor¬ 
wich,  13  June 
1580. 


Mayor  of  Nor¬ 
wich  1584.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
20  Feb.  1599; 
bur.  SS.  Simou 
&  Jude’s,  1600; 
mar.  2d  w.  1581. 


:ChristianCul- 
lyer,  2d  wife 
State  Papers > 
D.  1582.  Will, 
18  April  1608^ 
bur.  in  Stow- 
market  ch., 
Suffolk. 


John  Sterne,— Mary  Suckling,  born^=John  Hassall,  1st 


Bishop  Suffragan 
of  Colchester,  3d 
husbd.,mar.  at  St. 
Martin’s,  Lud- 
gate,  Feb.  1598- 
9 ;  ob.  1607-8. 


1551.  She  mar.  2dly 
Thomas  Gee,  who 
died  before  1589. 
Will,  P.C.C.  44  St. 
John,  proved  1631. 


husband,  Merch¬ 
ant  Adventurer; 
mar.  at  Norwich, 
1570 ;  bur.  at  St. 
Peter’s,  Cornhill, 
London,  1574. 


Elizabeth  Suck¬ 
ling,  born  1550 ; 
mar.,  1574,  Hen. 
Bowyer,  of  Lon¬ 
don,  brother  of 
FrancisBowyer; 
ob.  s.p. 


— — I 

John  Suckling,1 
born  1 553 ;  Cap¬ 
tain  of  Trained 
Bands,  1580. 
Will  pi’oved  19 
June  1612,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw. 


:Cecily,  dau.  of 
Francis  Bourne, 
mar.  1598.  She 
renupt.,  1613, 
Barnard  Utber. 
Will  proved  20 
Julv  1658. 


Elizabeth  Suck¬ 
ling,  bapt.  1558 ; 
mar.  Charles 
Cardinall,  of 
BramesHall, Es¬ 
sex.  Tanner  MS. 
Bodl.  Lib.  180. 


Anne,  mar.  1st  Edward 
Johnson,  of  Norwich, 
and  2dly  Thomas  Layer, 
Mayor  of  Norwich 
1576;  M.P.  1606;  ob. 
s.p.  1613;  Will,  P.C.C. 
147  Hall. 


Maud,  bapt.  1566, 
St.  Andrew’s,  N  or- 
wich ;  mar.  Sir 
Peter'.Gleane  1584, 
and  had  issue  Tho¬ 
mas,  Elizabeth  & 
Mary  Gleane. 


John  Hassall,  D.D., 
Dean  of  Norw.,  1628; 
b.  1654.  Will  proved 
P.C.C.  1655 ;  mar. 
Mary  ....  Her  Will 
proved  1655  by  her 
dau.,  Alice  Hassall. 


‘ — i — i 

John  Suckling,  bapt. 
13  Oct.  1600;  mar. 
Katherine . 

Richard  Suckling, 
bapt.  30  July  1605. 


Robert  Suckling, 
2d  son,  bapt.  1562 ; 
went  beyond  seas 
and  returned  1 600; 
ob.  1638.  He  and 
Jane  his  wife  (who 
died  1653)  were 
bur.  at  Barsham, 
co.  Suff. 


Anne,  Ist-pMartha,  2d  wife, — Edmund  Suckling,  3rd=pElizabeth, 


wife,  named 
in  Norwich 
Rolls  for 
1590—1601. 


sister  and  hr.  of 
Thos.  Wanton,  wo. 
of  Wm.  Layer,  of 
London,  by  whom 
issue;  died  1611. 


son,  D.D.,  Dean  of  Nor 
wieh  1604 ;  bapt.  at  St. 
Andrew’s,  Norw. ,1560; 
bur.  in  the  Cathedral, 
May  1628. 


widow  of 
mar.  at  St.  John’s, 
Maddermarket,  Norw., 
1612 ;  bur.  1614. 


3d  wife,= Alice,  4th  wife,  dau.  of  John 
Archer,  Heyward,  of  Thetford  (see  hia 
pedigree,  p.  212).  Shemar.,1, 
Richard  Fulmerston  ;  2,  John 
Law,  of  the  Prerog.  Court ;. 
3,  Dean  Suckling;  died  1632. 


,  i  I - 

Lucy,  mar.  1618  Thomas  Elizabeth,  mar.  1612  Dorothy,  mar.  1615  Wm.  Farrour, 
Marsham,  of  Stratton,  JohnSpendlove,Pre-  son  of  Richard  Farrour,  Mayor  of 
Strawless.  bendary  of  Norwich.  Norwich. 

Martha,  1st  wife,  sister  of=j=Sir  John  Suckling,  bapt.  1609;  Lord— Jane,  2d  wife,  da.  of  John  Reve,— Sir  Edwin 


- 1 

Anne 


Suckling,  bom 
1614,  living  1632. 


Lionel  Cranfield,  Eai’l  of 
Middlesex,  and  coheir  of 
her  mother,  Elizabeth,  wo. 
of  Vincent  Randall ;  mar. 
1603,  died  1617. 


of  Rose  Hall  Manor,  Beccles ;  pur¬ 
chased  Barsham  Hall,  1613 ;  Comptr. 
of  the  households  [of  James  I  and 
Chas.  I ;  d.  1627  ;  bur.  at  St.  Andrew’s, 
Norwich.  Will,  P.C.C.  55  Skynner. 


of  London,  by  Mary,  sister  of 
Roger  Abdy,  in  whose  Will,  P.C.C. 
38  Scott,  she  is  named ;  and  widow 
of  Charles  Hawkins,  of  St.  Mary’s, 
Aeons,  London. 


Rich,  of  Rose  Hall, 
Beccles,  jure  uxoris,  brother  of  Lord 
Rich,  and  3d  husband  of  Jane  Reve. 
He  made  Will,  P.C.C.,  24  April 
1675,  leaving  Rose  Hall  to  his  bro¬ 
ther,  Sir  Charles  Rich. 


Sir  John  Suckling,  the  Cavalier  Poet,  born  10 
Feb.  160f  ;  died  1641,  aged  32,  ob.  s.p.  Gave 
King  Charles  100  horsemen  for  his  war  with 
Scotland.  Sold  Barsham  to  his  uncle  Charles. 


Anne,  mar.  Sir  John  Davis, 
of  Bere  Court,  Pangbourno, 
Berks.  Anne  Davis, her  dau.& 
hr.  mar.  Sir  Thos.  Lee,  Bart. 


Lionel  Suckling,  born  1610 ; 
mar.  Catherine  Godsalve,  and 
died  1665.  She  was  bur.  at 
Great  Ormsby,  Norff.,  1648. 


Martha,  born  1605 ;  mar.  1st, 
1635,  Sir  George  Southcott, 
of  Shillingford,  Devon,  and, 
2d,  William  Clagett. 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


203 


$ciit<jnx,  ^ucfeltug  of  Barham. 


Margaret,  2d  wife,  dau.= 
of  Thomas  Pettingall 
and  wid.  of  William 
Wingfield,  WilliamBar- 
rett,and  Richard  Head. 
See  Barrett  of  West- 
hall,  vol.  ii,  p.  160. 


=Elizabeth,dau.of  Adam= 
Barwick,  of  East  Berg- 
holt,  co.  Suffolk,  1st 
wife ;  inar.  at  St.  An¬ 
drew’s,  Norwich,  1651 ; 
bur.  there  3  June 
1569. 

A 


:Robert  Suckling,  Mayor1 
of  Norwich,  1572-82 ; 
M.P.,  1573.  Will  proved 
(P.C.C.  70  Drury)  24 
Oct.  1590 ;  bur.  in  St.  An¬ 
drew’s,  Norw.;  fine  mont. 
there  to  his  memory. 


Moan,  3d  wife,  dau.=j=Robert  Yesey,  of  Wix 


of  Wm.  Cardinal,  of 
Bromley,  co.  Essex ; 
sister  and  devisee  of 
Stephen  Cardinall 
in  his  Will  1575, 
P.C.C. 54  Pickering. 


Abbey,  co.  Essex,  gent., 
son  of  William  Vesey, 
of  Hintlesham,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk,  1st  husb.  of  Joan 
Cardinal.  See  Vesey 
of  Wix,  vol.  i,  p.  64. 


Christopher, 
Thomas  and 
George, born 
at  one  birth, 
1582. 


Mary,  1st  wife,  dau.  and: 
coh.  of  Stephen  Drury,  of 
Aylsham,  co.  N  orff .,  gent.; 
bur.  at  Woodton,  1621. 
See  Drury  of  Aylsham, 
vol.  i. 


Frances,  mar.  be¬ 
fore  1625,  John, 
son.  of  John  Dus- 
gate,  of  Cockley 
Cley,  co.  Norff. ; 
named  in  Peter 
Wade’s  Will. 


Anne,  b.  1600;  mar. 
1628  George  Cock, 
Rector  of  Barsham, 
brother  to  Samuel 
Cock,  who  mar. 
Lucy  Suckling,  her 
sister. 


Ruth,  mar.  at  Barsham,  10  Sept. 
1639,  Thomas  Reeves,  of  Beccles,  co. 
Suffolk. 


:Charles  Suckling,  b.  1578 ;  pur-=Dorothy,  2d  wife,  dau.  of  Sir  An- 
chased  Barsham  and  Ship-  thony  Drury,  of  Besthorpe,  wid.  of 
meadow  of  his  nephew,  Sir  John  JohnBurman,  D.C.L.,  mar.  10  Feb. 
Suckling,  1640.  Will  proved,  1623 ;  bur.  at  Tasburgh  with  her 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  10  Jan.  1645.  1st  husb.  1642.  See  Drury  of 


Buried  at  Woodton. 


Besthorp,  vol.  i,  p.  355. 


William  Yesey,  of  Bed- 
ingham,  Norff.,  gent., 
half  brother  to  Chas. 
Suckling;  hemar. Mary, 
da.  of  Sir  Robt.  Beding- 
field,  and  had  issue. 


Mary,  mar.,  1623,  in  St. 
Luke’s  Chapel,  Norwich 
Cathedral,  Theophilus 
Kent, Archdeacon  of  Sud¬ 
bury,  who  died  during 
the  Rebellion. 


Lucy,  mar.  1636  Samuel 
Cock,  brother  to  George 
Cock,  Rector  of  Barsham, 
her  sister’s  husband, 
who  was  bur.  there  1647. 
Will  P.C.C. 


Agnes,  mar. 
before  1626, 
William 
Gosling. 


Margaret,  mar.  be¬ 
fore  1622,  Chris¬ 
topher  Spendlove, 
Rector  of  Wood- 
ton,  Norff. 


Margaret,  born  1612;  mar.  1646  Henry,  son 
of  Wm.  Rookwood  and  Margaret  D’Oyley. 
She  was  bur.  at  Weston.  Will  proved,  Cur. 
Ep.  N.,  22  Jan.  1691. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  at  Barsham,  1647,  Peyton 
Bacon,  3d  son  of  Sir  Robert  Bacon,  of  Ry- 
borough,  Bart.,  by  Anne,  da.  of  Sir  John 
Peyton,  of  Iselham. 


Anne,  1st  wife,  dau.  of  Sir 
Thomas  Wodehonse,  of  Kim¬ 
berley  ;  born  1617 ;  mar.  1635, 
at  St.  Michael’s,  Coslany,  Nor¬ 
wich  ;  bur.  2  July  1653,  at 
Woodton. 

i - 1 

Charles,  Philip,  3d 

2d  son,  son,  1664; 

1664 ;  buried 

buried,  1679  s.p. 

1673. 


-Robert  Suckling,  bapt.  1602,  of=f=Margaret,  2d  wife,  da. 


Woodton  and  Barsham ;  entered 
Gray’s  Inn  1624;  High  Sheriff 
of  Norfolk.  Will  20  June  1681. 
Buried  at  Woodton  2  July  1690. 
Pedigree  in  Norff.  Visitn.  1664. 


of  Sir  William  Doyley, 
of  Shottisham ;  mar. 
1664 ;  bur.  at  Trowse, 
Norff.,  22  Jan.  1670. 


Charles  Suckling,  of= 
Bracondale,  bapt. 
1607;  mar.  1644; 
died  of  the  plague ; 
1666 ;  bur.  at  Trowse. 


■Mary,  dau.  and  h.  of 
Thomas  Aklrich,  of  Man- 
green  ;  made  Will  at  Bar¬ 
sham  8  April  1671  ;  bur. 
at  Trowse. 


Horatio1 
Suckling, 
bapt.  at 
Woodton, 
1665. 


Grace 
Lomax, 
of  Eye, 
co. 

Suffolk. 


William  Suck¬ 
ling,  bapt.  at 
Woodton  15 
Dec.  1668. 


Ruth,  born  1653 ;  mar. 
Thomas  Leman,  of 
Beccles,  brother  of 
Neville  Leman;  she 
died  1776. 


Mary,  born  1650 ; 
mar.  at  Barsham,  in 
1668,  Matthew  Le¬ 
man,  of  Weston ;  she 
died  1722. 


Lucy,  ancestress 
of  Lord  Berners, 
mar.,  1,  Neville 
Leman,  and,  2, 
John  Knyvett. 


A 


I -  l - 1 - 1 - 1 

Robert  Suckling,  of  Wood-==Sarah,  dau.  of  Maurice  Blanche,  Anne,  mar.  Augustine  Elizabeth,  mar.  Abra-  Lucy,  born  1650;  mar. 


ton  and  Barsham,  born 
1641 ;  mar.  1669.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  29  Sept. 
1707 ;  proved  18  April  1709. 


Shelton,  of  Burning-  mar.  Ed-  Scottow,  of  Norwich,  ham  Castell,  Bailiff  Thomas  Stone,  of  Bed- 

ham,  Suffolk.  She  had  ward  Os-  23  April  1660;  died  of  Great  Yarmouth,  ingham,  co.  Norff.,  where 

eight  sons  and  seven  borne,  of  1662.  Feb.  1639;  mar.  at  she  was  bur.  1  August 

daus.,  and  ob.  1695.  Seething.  Woodton,  1667.  1720. 


Shelton  Suckling,  of  Ship- 
meadow  Hall,  co.  Suffolk, 
born  1675  ;  a  Colonel  in  the 
Army ;  died  1740.  For 
Will  of  Elizabeth,  his 
widow,  see  p.  198. 


- 1 — i — r  ”  - - 

Charles,  born  1677. 

Henry,  born  1683. 
Philip,  born  1690. 


— i — l — l - 

Mary. 

Jane,  born  1681. 

Blanch  e,bornl693, 
ob.  inf. 


- 71 - 

Elizabeth,  born 
1671 ;  mar.  1692, 
John,  s.  of  John 
Mallom,  of  Wac- 
ton,  and  had 
issue. 


Sarah,  born  1678 ;  mar. 
Richard  Henley,  Capt. 
of  Foot,  1706  ;  she  was 
bur.  in  St.  Andrew’s, 
Norwich,  2  July  1778. 


Anne,  bom  1680 ;  mar. 
1700,  Thomas  Berney, 
s.  and  h.  of  John  Ber¬ 
ney,  of  Swardeston  ; 
bur.  in  the  church  there 
1743. 


Robert  Suckling, =j=Dorothy,  dau.  of  John 
Berney,  of  Swardeston, 
co.  Norff. ;  mar.  settle¬ 
ment  23  May  1700. 
Will  proved  23  Jan. 
1747  (see  p.  197). 


son  and  h.,  of 
Woodton  &  Bar¬ 
sham,  born  1673 ; 
bur.  23  March 
1734,  aged  62. 


John  Suckling,  born— Anne,  dau.  of  John 
1689  ;  made  Colonel  and  sister  of  Thos. 
1733.  Will,  15  Dec. 

1727;  adm.,  P.C.C., 
granted  10  April 
1734;  ob.  s.p. 


Berney,  who  mar. 
Anne  Suckling  29 
May  1700;  ob.  s.p. 


Maurice  Suckling,  D.D.,- 
born  1676 ;  Rector  of 
Woodton,  1701 ;  Rector 
of  Barsham,  1730  ;  Pre¬ 
bendary  ofWestminster; 
bur.  in  Barsham  church. 


A 

Pedigree  A. 


■Anne,  dau.  of  Sir  Charles 
Turner,  Bart.,  by  Mary, 
dau.  of  Robert  Walpole, 
of  Houghton ;  bur.  in 
Barsham  Church,  1768. 


A 

Pedigree  B. 


2  B2 


204 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


i&uritftng  of  Bars!) am.  $)rtntjirr 


Robert  Suckling,  of  Woodton,  Langhall,  Barsbam  and1 
Shipmeadow,  son  of  Robert  Suckling  and  Sarah  Shelton 
his  wife  (see  p.  203)  ;  bapt.  at  Barsham,  10  June  1673; 
ob.  23  March  1734,  aged  61.  Will  proved  at  Norwich, 
18  April  1754;  bur.  in  Woodton  chancel. 


Dorothy,  dau.  of  John  Berney,  of  Swardeston, 
Norfolk,  by  Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Sir  Arthur  On¬ 
slow,  Bart. ;  mar.  settlement  3  May  1700.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norwich,  proved  23  Jan.  1747.  Bur. 
at  Woodton  15  Jan.  1747. 


Denzil  Suckling,  of  Woodton,  Bar-=j=Hannah,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Richard  Suckling, =pAnne,  dau.  of 


sham  and  Shipmeadow  ;  bapt.  23 
May  1703 ;  mar.  at  Brockdish, 
1739;  bur.  at  Woodton,  1744.  Will 
proved  at  Norwich. 


Richard  Tubby,  of  Reden- 
hall,  and  Frances  Sayer  his 
wife,  niece  of  Archbishop 
Tenison ;  bur.  at  Woodton, 
27  April  1796. 


bapt.  at  Woodton, 
1709 ;  buried  at 
Brook,  Norfolk,  16 
Nov.  1764. 


Rich.  Kylborne, 
of  N  orwich;  born 
1701  ;  bur.  at 
Brook,  19  April 
1793. 


Mary,  bap.  at  Barsham  1701;  mar. 
10  Nov.  1734,  Roger  Howman, 
M.B.,  son  of  Edmund  Howman,  of 
Norwich,  by  Margaret  Palgrave. 
She  died  6  Oct.  1798,  aged  97. 


Robert  Suckling,  Lord  of 
the  Manors  of  Woodton, 
Barsham  &  Shipmeadow ; 
born  1740 ;  entered  Trin. 
Coll.,  Camb.,  1758  ;  died 
unmar.;  bur.  at  Woodton, 
1802. 


Robert  Suckling,  of  Woodton, =j=Susannah,  da.  and  h. 


Langhall,  Barsham  and  Ship¬ 
meadow;  born  1737 ;  succeeded  his 
cousin,  1802.  Will  proved  19  Sept. 
1812,  by  Roger  Howman.  Bur.  at 
Woodton  8  Sept.  1812. 


of  William  Webb,  of 
London ;  mar.  at 
Brook,  5  June  1763  ; 
bur.  at  Woodton  30 
April  1803. 


John  Suck¬ 
ling,  bapt.  4 
Nov.  1743  ; 
buried  at 
Brook  1 
Dec.  1799. 


Edward  Howman,  M.A.,of  Gissing, 
Norfolk  ;  mar.  Anne,  dau.  of  Rev. 
Thos.  Fuston,  of  Cratfield,  Suffolk. 
Their  son,  Roger  Fuston  Howman, 
was  Rector  of  Shipmeadow  1803. 
See  “  Landed  Gentry,”  Howman 
Little,  of  Newbold  Pacy. 


Robert  George 
Suckling,  Roy¬ 
al  Artillery  ; 
killed  at  Gua- 


Suckling,  Rector 
of  Shipmeadow ; 
M.A.  Caius  Coll., 
daloupe,  6  June  Camb.,  I798l';bur. 
1795,  unmar.  18  Feb.  1803,  at 
Woodton. 


i - r - ; 

John  Thoinas=j=Mary  Anne,  da.  of  Maurice  William  Suckling, — Catherine,  dau. 


AnnaMariaSuck-=p Alexander 


Thos.  French,  mar. 
at  Brandish,  1797 ; 
bur.  in  St.  Ste¬ 
phen’s  ch.  Norwich, 
3  Feb.  1838,  sot.  66. 


R.N.,  born  1761;  bur.  at 
Woodton,  1820  ;  estates  to 
nephew.  He  mar.  2dly,  in 
1816,  Caroline  Ramell, 
who  ob.  s.p.  1855. 


of  Dr.  Framing¬ 
ham,  of  Lynn ; 
mar.  11  Oct. 
1796  ;  ob.  1814  ; 
1st  wife,  d.  s.p., 
bur.at  Woodton. 


ling,  born  17651; 
bur.  at  Woodton, 
7  Sept.  1848,  aged 
82. 


Fox, born  1770; 
mar.  at  St.  Cle¬ 
ment’s,  Nor¬ 
wich,  21  July 
1791. 


Susanna  Webb  Suck¬ 
ling,  born  8  Oct. 
1799  ;  bur.  at  Great 
Yarmouth,  5  Aug. 
1815. 


Emily  Susanna 
Suckling,  mar. 
Nicholas 
Cheeseman,  of 
Yorkshire. 


Rev.  Alfred  Inigo  Fox,  the  Suffolk  Historian ;  born  1796  ;: 
LL.B.,  Camb.  1824 ;  assumed  name  and  arms  of  Suckling 
only  by  letters  patent  1821,  under  Will  of  maternal  grand¬ 
father  (1812).  Succeeded  his  uncle,  1820,  as  lord  of  the 
Manors  of  Woodton,  Barsham,  Shipmeadow,  etc.  Rector  of 
Barsham,  1839.  Bur.  at  St.  Helliers,  Jersey,  10  May  1856. 


Charles  Rich¬ 
ard  Suckling, 
ob.  1891  sine 
prole. 


Fanny  Jane  Suckling, 
born  9  Aug.  1832 ; 
mar.  Rev.  William 
Barron,  and  had  issue. 


Rosa  Matilda  Suckling,  born  1824;  ob. 
1902 ;  mar.  Rev.  Robt.  Chilton, Rector 
of  High  Wickham,  &  had  a  dau.  Alice 
Chilton,  who  mar.  Rev.  J.  Haliburton 
Young,  Rector  of  Shipmeadow. 


Margaret  Anne  Suck¬ 
ling,  born  1826  ;  mar. 
11  Sept.  1849,  at  Bar- 
sham,  Rev.  St.  John 
Thorpe,  and  had  issue. 


;Lucy  Clementina,  dau.  of  Samuel 
Clarke,  of  Burgh  Apton,  by  Lucy, 
dau.  of  Joseph  Fox  of  Worliug- 
ham,  Suffolk  ;  mar.  31  Jan.  1816 ; 
bur.  at  Barsham,  Nov.  1876. 


- 1 

Elizabeth  Cranfield  Suckling, 
bom  1834;  mar.  the  Rev.  Wil¬ 
liam  Arthur,  and  had  issue. 


Robert  Alfred  Suckling,  born  1817  at  Bungay, =f= Anna  Maria,  dau.  of  John 


Suffolk ;  Royal  Navy,  1831 ;  Caius  Coll.,  Camb., 
1839  ;  B.A.,  1844;  M.A.,  1847  ;  Vicar  of  Bussage, 
Gloucestershire ;  bur.  there  1851,  aged  33  ( see 
“  Memoir,”  by  Rev.  Isaac  Williams,  London,  1853. 


Jelloly,  of  Cavendish 
Hall,  co.  Suffolk;  mar.  22 
April  1840 ;  bur.  at  Bar¬ 
sham,  29  June  1880. 


Henry  Edward  Suck¬ 
ling,  bapt.  at  Woodton 
5  March  1827  ;  Rector 
of  North  AVootton, 
Norfolk. 


Maurice  Shelton  Suck¬ 
ling,  born  1818 ;  M.A., 
Camb.,  1846.  Rector 
of  Shipmeadow,  1850; 
bur.  there  23  May  1895. 


;Barbara, 
dau.  of  Mat¬ 
thew  Coates, 
mar.lOSept. 
1850;  d.1896. 


Robert  Alfred  John  Suckling,  born 
1842 ;  succeeded  his  grandfather, 
the  Suffolk  Historian,  1856.  Lord 
of  the  Manors  of  Barsham  and  Ship¬ 
meadow.  Rector  of  Barsham,  1868  ; 
Vicar  of  St.  Peter’s,  London  Docks, 
1880  ;  Vicar  of  St.  Alban’s,  Holborn, 
London,  1882. 


Anna  Maria  Suck¬ 
ling,  born  Feb.  1842. 

Mary  Sarah  Suck¬ 
ling,  born  1843. 

Constance  Suckling, 
born  1849. 


Thomas  Suck-=f=  Florence  Horatia, 


ling,  of  High- 
wood,  Romsey, 
Hants ;  born  8 
August  1844 ; 
Captain  R.N.; 
mar.  6  Sept. 
1876. 


dau.  and  heir  of 
Admiral  William 
Benjamin  Suck¬ 
ling,  of  High- 
wood,  Romsey, 
Hampshire,  See 
Pedigree  B. 


John  Lionel  Suck¬ 
ling,  born  Feb. 
1848;  of  Woodton 
&  Barsham,  Aus¬ 
tralia  ;  mar.  Mary, 
dau.  of  P.  W. 
Wright,  of  Aus¬ 
tralia,  mar.  1871. 


- 1 

Sarah 

Shelton 

Studding. 


Robert  William  Shelton  Suckling, 
ob.  22  August  1877. 


A  large  bell  was  recently  hung  in  Barsham  church  tower,  inscribed,  “  A.M.D.G.  et  in  tnemoriam  Maurice 
Suckling,  Captain  R.N.,  maternal  uncle  and  early  patron  of  Admiral  Lord  Nelson.  Interred  in  this  church  27  July  1778. 
R.I.P.  D.  D.  Nelson,  3rd  Earl,  R.  A.  J.  Suckling  (Priest),  T.  Suckling,  Capt.  R.N.” 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM. 


205 


urfvliwj;  of  Bantam,  prtJtjjrcc  33. 


Maurice  Suckling,  D.D.,  born  1676.  Trin.  Coll.,  Camb. ;  M.A.,=j=Anne,  dau.  of  Sir  Charles  Turner,  of  Warham,  Bart.,  by 


1699;  Rector  of  Woodton,  1701;  Rector  of  Barsham,  1714; 
Prebendary  of  Westminster.  Buried  in  Barsham  chancel, 
1730.  Will,  P.C.C.,  proved  23  Nov.  1730. 


his  1st  wife,  Mary,  dau.  of  Robert  Walpole,  of  Houghton, 
and  sister  of  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  1st  Earl  of  Orford. 
Born  1691 ;  died  1768  ;  bur.  in  Barsham  chancel. 


Catherine  Suckling,  born=f=Rev.  Edmund  Nelson,  Rec- 


at  Barsham  Rectory,  9 
May  1725 ;  mar.  at  Bec- 
cles,  11  May  1749;  bur. 
at  Burnham  Thorpe,  IS’  or- 
folk,  26  Dec.  1769. 


A 


tor  of  Hilborough  and 
Burnham  Thorpe ;  ob.  20 
April  1802.  Will  proved, 
P.C.C.,  10  July  1802.  Bur. 
at  Burnham  Thorpe. 


Suckling  of  Baesham,  Nelson. 


Maurice  Suckling,  Capt.- 
R.N.,  born  at  Barsham, 
1726;  uncle  and  patron 
of  Lord  Nelson  ;  Comp¬ 
troller  of  the  Navjq 
1778;  M.P.  for  Ports¬ 
mouth  ;  bur.  at  Bar¬ 
sham,  27  July  1778. 


Alary,  dau.  of  Ho¬ 
ratio,  Lord  Wal¬ 
pole  ;  mar.  1761 ; 
ob.  s.p.  Admon. 
to  Horatio  Wal¬ 
pole,  her  brother, 
1778.  Buried  at 
Wickmere,  1764. 


William  Suckling,  born=j=Elizabeth 


at  Barsham,  15  July 
1730.  Comptroller  of 
Customs.  Bur.  at  Bar¬ 
sham  1798,  set.  68. 
He  mar.  2dly,  Mary 
Rumsey,  who  ob.  14 
Nov.  1806. 


Browne, 
1st  wife ; 
mar.  1760, 
died  1785. 


1.  William  Suckling,1 
born  1762.  Cornet  3d 
DragoonGuards,1783. 
Colonel.  Will  proved, 
P.C.C.,  22  July  1833. 
Bur.  at  Bath. 


Nelson  Suckling,  32 
Grenadiers ;  born 
1803 ;  died  sine 
prole,  1859 ;  bur.  at 
Mildenhall,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk. 


.  .  .  .  Wey- 
brew,  mar. 
1787;  bur. 
at  South¬ 
ampton,  30 
April  1848, 
set.  82. 


2.  Benjamin  Suckling, 
born  1768.  M.A.,Camb., 
1794  ;  Rector  of  Holt, 
Plumstead,  and  Mat- 
lask,  Norff.  Will  pr. 
at  Norwich,  1838. 


Elizabeth,  born  1772  ;  mar. 
1796,HenryWigley  (whoas- 
sumed  the  name  of  Gres- 
wolde,  1833),  Col.  Scots 
Greys.  She  died  1850.  Will 
P.C.C.  See  Greswolde  Will¬ 
iams, ofMalvernHall.  Burke. 


3.  Horace  Suckling,  Rec-= 
tor  of  Barsham  1797 ; 
born  1768 ;  Trin.  Coll., 
Camb. ;  M.A.,  1796  ;  mar. 
1796  ;  bur.  at  Barsham, 
1828.  Will,  P.C.C..  504 
Sutton. 


‘Catherine,  dau.  and 
coh.  of  GeorgeJack- 
son,  of  Kentish 
Town,&  Jane  Kilby ; 
bur.  at  Paignton, 
1861.  Will  dated 
Aug.  1851.  P.C.C. 


Horace  Suckling,  Major 
1st  Royals  ;  mar.  1823,  & 
had  son,  Fredk.  Herbert 
Suckling,  Capt.  1 0th  Hus¬ 
sars,  who  mar.  Elizabeth 
Latham  1857,  and  d.  Nov. 
1878,  leaving  issue. 


Robert  William  Suck-— Charlotte  Car¬ 
ling,  born  at  Barsham  oline,  only  da. 
31  March  1810;  Com-  of  Henry  F. 
mander  R.N. ;  died  Amadroz ;  died 
Dec.  1887 ;  buried  at  10  Jan.  1867, 
Great  Malvern.  s.p. 


Richard  Randall  Suck¬ 
ling,  b.  1807.  B.A., 

Oxon,  1829 ;  Rector  of 
Duntisbourne,  Glouc. ; 
mar.  Maria  Owen ;  ob. 
s.p.  1861 ;  buried  at 
Paignton. 


Horace  George 
Suckling,  born 
1770 ;  died  at 
Barsham,  6 
Sept.  1828,  s.p. 


William  BenjaminSuckling,=pCaroline,  da.  of  Wm.  William  Nelson=fMatilda,  dau.  of  Edwards  Ferrers  Acton,  of^pMary  Anne  Suck- 


born  1788.  Midshipman  at 
Trafalgar,  1805  ;  Rear-Ad¬ 
miral.  Ob.  11  Jan.  1865;  of 
Highwood,  Romsey,  Hants. 


Loaden,  of  Rose  Hill, 
Bideford;  ob.  18  July 
1896 ;  bur.  at  Amp- 
field,  Hants. 


Suckling,  born 
1806;  ob.  6  Dec. 
1883 ;  bur.atPe- 
tersfield,  Hants. 


Thomas  Suckling,  2d 
son  of  the  Rev.  Robert 
A.  Suckling,  Vicar  of 
Bussage,  co.  Glouc. ; 
born  8  Aug.  1844; 
Capt.  R.N. ;  of  High- 
wood  Romsey.  See 
Pedigree  A. 


i — 1 

Florence  Ho 
ratia  Suck 
ling,  of  High 
wood,  sole  da 
and  heiress 
mar.  6  Sept 
1876. 


Capt.  Dewes,  of 
Stubbington,  co. 
Hants. 


Gatacre  Park,  co.  Salop, 
Col.  2d  Shropshire  Militia  ; 
born  1805;  ob. 28  Nov.  1890. 
See  Burke’s  Peerage. 


ling,  born  1808,  at 
Barsham ;  mar. 
1832  ;  died  7  July 
1890 ;  bur.  at 
Tuck  Hill,  Salop. 


Wybrew  Jane  Suckling,  born 
1837 ;  mar.  1862,  Capt.  W.  F. 
Perrey,  of  the  Austrian  Army. 
Their  son,  William  Fredk. Suck¬ 
ling  Perrey,  born  1868,  mar. 
1896  Grace,  dau.  of  the  Rev. 
A.  G.  Barber. 


Edward  Ferrers  Ac¬ 
ton,  Capt.  76th  Reg.; 
born  1834;  mar.  1855; 
of  Gatacre  Park,  co. 
Salop  ;  devisee  of  his 
uncle,  Capt.  Robt. 
W.  Suckling. 


:Helen,  Mary  Henrietta  Acton,  born 

da.  of  1833  ;  died  1888 ;  mar.  1859, 

W.  P.  Ayton  Whitaker,  Rector  of 

Ranney  ;  Henstead,  Suffolk,  son  of 
ob.  25  Rev.  G.  Whitaker,  of  Knod- 

Dec.  dishall,  and  Anna  Maria 

1887.  Farr,  of  Beccles. 


Robert  William  Shelton  Suckling,  born 
22  June  and  died  22  Aug.  1877. 


Beatrice  Helen  Acton,  mar.  1882,  John  K.  Brooke,  of 
died  4  Feb.  1897.  See  Burke’s  “  Landed  Gentry.” 


Sibton  Park,  Yoxford,  Suffolk; 


Amongst  the  monumental  inscriptions  in  Barsham  chancel,  where  so  many  of  the  Sucklings  lie  buried,  is  the 
following : — 

“  Sacred  to  the  memory  of  William  Suckling,  Esqr,  late  of  Kentish  Town  in  the  County  of  Middlesex,  who  departed 
this  life  December  15th  1798,  aged  83.” 

“Against  the  wall  is  a  Hatchment  with  the  arms  of  this  gentleman  with  Rumsey,”  Quarterly,  1st  and  4th,  Argent 
a  fesse  Gules,  in  chief  a  label  of  four  points  Azure ;  2d  and  3d,  Azure  a  cinquefoil  within  a  bordure  Ermine. 

Add.  MS.  18,476,  page  52. 


206 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


^uriUtmj  of  Bargain,  prison. 


Maurice  Suckling,  D.D.,  born  1676 ;  M.A.,  Camb.,  1699  ;=j=Anne,  dau.  of  Sir  Charles  Turner,  of  Warham,  co. 


Rector  of  Woodton,  1701 ;  Rector  of  Barsham,  1714 — 
1730 ;  Prebendary  of  Westminster ;  buried  in  Barsham 
chancel  1730.  Will,  P.C.C.,  proved  23  Nov.  1730. 


Norfolk,  Bart.,  by  first  wife,  Mary,  dau.  of  Robert 
Walpole,  of  Houghton ;  bom  1691 ;  bur.  in  Bar¬ 
sham  chancel  1768.  Will,  P.C.C.,  20  Dec.  1766. 


i - - - 

Catherine  Suckling,1 
born  at  Barsham  Rec¬ 
tory  9  May  1726 ;  mar. 
at  Beccles,  11  May 
1749;  ob.  at  Burnham 
Thorpe,  26  Dec.  1767. 


=Rev.  Edmund  Nelson,  Cu¬ 
rate  of  Beccles,  1746 ; 
after  Rector  of  Hilborough 
and  Burnham  Thorpe  ;  ob. 
26  April  1802.  Will  proved, 
P.C.C.,  10  July  1802. 


Maurice  Suckling,  Capt.  - 
R.N.,  born  at  Barsham, 
1726  ;  Lord  Nelson’s  fav¬ 
ourite  uncle  ;  Comptroller 
of  the  Navy,  1778;  M.P.for 
Portsmouth ;  bur.  at  Bar¬ 
sham,  1778. 


-Mary,  dau.  of  Ho¬ 
ratio,  Lord  Wal¬ 
pole  ;  mar.  26  June 
1761  ;  ob.  s.p. 
Adm.  to  Horatio 
Walpole,  her  bro¬ 
ther,  8  June  1778. 


William  Suckling,  born= 
at  Barsham,  15  July 
1730;  Comptroller  of 
Customs ;  bur.  at  Bar¬ 
sham,  1798,  ast.  68.  He 
mar.,  2dly,  Mary  Rum- 
sey,wlioob,14  Nov.  1806. 


;Elizabeth 
Brown, 1st 
wife,  mar¬ 
ried  1760; 
died  1785. 


William  Nelson,  D.D.,  born=j=Sarah,  dau.  of 


1757  ;  Rector  of  Hillborough, 
Norf.;  created  1st  Earl  Nelson, 
1806 ;  bur.  in  St.  Paul’s  Cathe¬ 
dral,  1835.  He  mar.,  2dly, 
Helare,  dau.  of  Sir  II.  Barlow. 


Rev.  Henry 
Young;  mar. 
1786;  died  13 
April  1828. 
First  wife. 


Horatio,  Viscount  Nelson 
of  the  Nile ;  Rear-Admiral, 
1797 ;  born  1758 ;  killed 
at  Trafalgar,  21  Oct.  1805  ; 
bur.  in  St.  Paul’s  Cathe¬ 
dral,  London. 


Catherine  Nelson, 
born  1767  ;  mar. 
George  Matcham. 
See  Burlie’ s  Landed 
Gentry.  She  died 
1842. 


SusannaNelson,born: 
1753;  mar.  at  Burn¬ 
ham  Thorpe,  August 
1780;  bur.  there  13 
July  1813. 


A 

See  Pedigree  B. 

;Thomas  Bolton,  of 
Wells,  Norff.,  son 
of  Samuel  Bolton, 
of  Coddenham,  co. 
Suff. ;  born  1752  ; 
died  1834. 


Horatio,  Vis¬ 
count  Merton 
of  Trafalgar; 
born  1788; 
died  1808  un- 


Charlotte  Nelson,  dau.  & 
heir  ;  born  1787  ;  mar.  3 
July  1810,  Samuel  Hood, 
2d  Baron  Bridport,&  had 
with  other  issue,  Alex¬ 
ander,  1st  Viscount 
Brideport,  who  d.  1904. 


Thomas  Bolton, =pFrancesElizabeth, 


born  1786,  took 
name  ofNelson ; 
succeeded  his 
uncle  as  2d  Earl 
Nelson,  1835. 


dau.  and  heir  of 
John  Maurice  Eyre 
of  Landford,  co. 
Wilts ;  she  died 
1878. 


Catherine,  mar. 
her  cousin,  Sir 
Wm. Bolton, Kt., 
Capt.  R.N.,  18 
May  1803.  She 
died  1857. 


Elizabeth  Anne, m. 
1811  Rev.  Henry 
Girdlestone,  Rec¬ 
tor  of  Landford, 
co.  Wilts ;  died 
1871,  aged  86. 


- 1 — i — I 

George,  born  1787, 
ob.  1799  s.p. 

Jemima  Susanna, 
twin  with  Cath. 

Anne,  ob.  1830. 


Horatio  Nelson,  3d  Earl=j=Lady  Mary  Agar, 
only  dau.  of  Wel- 
bore,  2d  Earl  of 
Normanton;  died 
1904 ;  had  with 
other  issue : 


Nelson  of  Trafalgar, 
Baron  Nelson  of  the 
Nile;  bom  1823;  suc¬ 
ceeded  his  father  1835 ; 
mar.  1845. 


Emma  Horatia  Bolton, 
born  1804 ;  mar.  Dr.  Foley 
(who  died  at  St.  Omer, 
France)  ;  she  died  1869, 
and  was  bur.  at  Burnham 
Westgate;  s.p. 


Mary  Anne 
Bolton,  born 
1813 ;  died 
1864,  a3t.  51. 


n 


I - 1 

Ellen  Cather-=pHoratio  Girdle-  Rev.  F.  G. 
ine  Bolton,  stone,  born  1819 ;  Girdlestone, 
mar.  12  Dec.  diedl894,at  Lym-  Rector  of 
1844  to  her  ington,  Hants.  Landford, 
cousin.  June  1871. 


Herbert  Horatio= 
Nelson.  Viscount 
Trafalgar  ;  born 
1854 ;  mar.  1879. 


:Eliza  Blanche,  dau. 
of  Frederick  Gon- 
nerman  Dalgetty, 
of  Lockerly  Hall, 
Hampshire. 


Edgar  Agar  Horatio=f  Geraldine,  dau.  of 


Nelson,  3d  son, of  Ap¬ 
pleton  Manor,  Ather- 
stone  ;  born  1860 ; 
mar.  1889. 


Henry  H.  Cave,  of 
Rugby  in  co.  War¬ 
wick  ;  has  with 
other  issue  : — 


l — ; - 

Thomas 

Girdlestone. 

Francis 

Girdlestone. 


Henry 

Clapcott 

Girdlestone. 


Fanella 

Horatia. 

Lucy 

Gertrude. 


Albert  Francis  Joseph  Horatio  Nelson,  born  1890. 


Amongst  the  existing  portraits  of  the  Sucklings  and  their  kinsmen  are  those  of  Robert  Suckling,  M.P.  for  Norwich, 
on  panel,  dated  1583;  Sir  John  Suckling,  who  purchased  Barsham;  Sir  John  Suckling,  his  son,  the  poet,  by  Vandyke  (of 
which  engravings  will  be  found  in  his  life  by  the  Rev.  A.  J.  Suckling,  and  the  latter’s  History  of  Suffolk);  Robert 
Suckling,  High  Sheriff  of  Norfolk,  and  Anne  Wodehouse,  his  wife,  dated  1645;  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  Earl  of  Orford,  by  Van 
Loo ;  Nelson’s  grandparents,  Maurice  Suckling,  II. D.,  in  wig  and  gown,  and  his  wife,  Anne  Turner,  in  her  widow’s  weeds 
(dated  1745,  J.  T.  Heins)  ;  their  daughter,  Catherine  (Heins  1745),  afterwards  Nelson’s  mother.  These  and  many  other 
Suckling,  Walpole,  and  Townshend  portraits  are  now  in  the  possession  of  the  present  lord  and  patron  of  Barsham  Manor. 

A  large  oil  painting,  by  Bardwell  1764,  of  Captain  Maurice  Suckling,  R.N.,  once  the  property  of  Nelson  himself,  is 
now  at  High  wood  in  the  possession  of  Captain  Thomas  Suckling,  R.N. 


SUCKLING  OF  BARSHAM 


207 


Eojial  Sescmts— i&uritltng,  prison,  Bolton. 


Eleanor,  dau.  of  Ferdinand  III,=f=Edward  I,  King  of  England, =pMargaret,  dau.  of  Philip  III, 
King  of  Castile.  First  wife.  died  1307.  |  King  of  France.  Second  wife. 


The  Princess=j=Gilbertde  Clare,  Edward  II,  King=f=Isabella,dau.  The  Princess=j=Humphrey  de 


Joan  of  Acres, 

Earl  of  Glou- 

of  England, 

died 

of  Philip  IV 

Elizabeth 

Bohun,  Earl  of 

erton,EarlofNor- 

died  1307. 

r  J 

cester. 

1327. 

r 

J 

of  France. 

Plantagenet. 

r - J 

Hereford. 

folk, younger  son. 

Margaret  de  Clare, =pHugh,  Lord 
widow  of  Piers 
Gavestone. 


EdwardIII,King=j=Philippa,  da.  Eleanor  de=rJames  Butler,  first  Margaret  Plantage-= 


Audley. 

of  England,  died 

of  Wm.,  Earl 

Bohun. 

Earl  of  Ormonde. 

net, Duchess  of  N or- 

1377. 

of  Hainault. 

folk,  sole  da.  &  heir. 

Thomas  of  Broth-=p  Alice,  dau. 
—  '  of  Sir  Ro¬ 

ger  Hales. 


'John, 

LordSe- 

grave. 


Margaret  de  Aud-=pRalph,  1st 


i — 

John 


of  Gaunt, =pCatherine  James,  2d  Earl=rElizabeth,  dau.  Elizabeth 


lev,  sole  dau. 

and 

Earl  of 

Duke  of  Lancaster, 

Swynford, 

of  Ormonde, 

of  John,  Lord 

grave,  sole  dau. 

heir. 

r 

Stafford. 

died  1399. 

r 

3d  wife. 

died  1382. 

r  ^ 

d’Arcy. 

and  heir. 

r  J 

Se-=j=John,  4tln 
Lord  Mow¬ 
bray. 


Hugh,2dEarh 
of  Stafford, 
died  1386. 


John  Beaufort, =j=Margaret,  dau.  James,  3d  Earl=p Anne,  dau.  of 


Thomas,  Earl  of 

Earl  of  Somer¬ 

of  Thos.  Hol¬ 

of  Ormonde, 

John,  Lord 

bray,  Duke  of 

Warwick. 

set,  died  1410. 

land, E.ofKent. 

died  1405. 

Welles. 

Norfolk. 

The  Lady=pMichael  de  la  Pole, 
Katherine 
Stafford. 


i - 

Edmund 


Beau-=j=Eleanor,  dau.  James,  4th  Earl=f  Jane,  dau.  of  Margaret  de= 


Thos.de  Mow-=j=Elizabeth,  da. 

of  Richard,  E. 
of  Arundel. 


'Sir  Robert 
Howard. 


2d  Earl  of  Suffolk, 

fort,  Duke  of 

of  Rd.  Beau¬ 

of  Ormonde, 

William,  Lord 

Mowbray,  sole 

died  1415. 

Somerset,  died 
1445. 

champ,  Earl 
of  Warwick. 

died  1452. 

Abergavenny. 

dau.  da.  &  heir. 

Isabel  de  la=j=Thomas,  5th  Lord  Eleanor  Beaufort, =j=Sir  Robert  Thomas,  3d  son,=j=Anne,  dau. of 


Pole  ; 

died 

Morley,  died 

eldest  dau.  and  co- 

Spencer,  of 

7th  Earl  of  Or- 

Sir  Richard 

Duke  of  Nor- 

1466. 

r  ' 

_ 

1435. 

heir. 

r  '  J 

co.  Devon. 

monde,died  1515. 

r - J 

Hankford. 

folk,  d.  1485. 

i - J 

Robert,  6th=j=Elizabeth,  dau. 


Lord  Morley, 
died  1442. 


of  William,  Lord 
Roos. 


Margaret  Spen¬ 
cer,  second  dau. 
and  coheir. 


Alianora  Morley,  dau.: 
and  heir. 


:Sir  William  Lovel,  Lord 
Morley,  jure  uxoris. 


Alice  Lovel ;  she  re-married  Sir1 
Edward  Howard. 


Sir  William 
Parker. 


■Thos.  Carey, 
of  Chilton 
Foliot. 


LadyMargaret=j=SirWilliam  Bo- 
Butler,  2d  dau.  leyn,  of  Blick- 
and  coheir.  ling,  died  1505. 


John  Ho  ward,  ^Catherine, 

dau.  of  Win. 
Lord  Molines. 


'Elizabeth, 
dau.  of  Sir 
Fdk.  Tilney. 


Thos.  Howard,' 
Duke  of  Nor¬ 
folk,  died  1524. 


Anne  Boleyn, 
mar.  Sir  John 
Shelton,  of 
Shelton,  in 
Norfolk.  See 
below. 


Sir  Thomasn=Lady  Elizabeth, 


Boleyn, 
Earl  of 
Wiltshire. 


Howard,  eldest 
daughter. 


Thomas  How -=T he  Lady 
ard,  Duke  of  Anne,  3d  da.. 
Norfolk,  died  of  Edward 
1554.  IV,  King  of 

England;  1st 
wife. 


Sir  Henry  Parker, =p  Alice,  dau.  Sir  W  i  lli  am=pMary  Boleyn.  Anne  Boleyn,  Queen=fHenry  VIII, 


Lord  Morley,  jure  of  Sir  John 
matris  ;  d.  1555.  St.  John. 


Sir  Henry  Parker, ~Grace,  dau. 


Carey,  Esquire 
of  the  body  to 
King  Henry 
VIII;  died  1528. 


K.B.,  died  5  Edw. 
VI,  vita  patris. 


of  John 
Newport. 


She  renupt. 
Sir  William 
Stafford,  and 
died  1542. 


Consort  of  England ; 
beheaded  1530. 


King  of  Eng¬ 
land. 


George  Boleyn, =Jane,  dau. 
Viscount  Roch-  ofSirHen- 
ford,  beheaded  ry  Parker, 
1536;  s.p.  K.B. 


Elizabeth,  Queen  of  England  ;  born  1533; 
ascended  the  throne  1558  ;  died  1603. 


See  A. 


See  B. 


208 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


B 


Margaret  Parker ,=j=Sir  John  Shelton,  son  of  Henry  Parker,  Lord  Morley,=f=Lady  Elizabeth  Stanley,  Sir  Henry  Carey ,=f= Anne,  da.  of 


Her  sister  Jane  m. 
Yisct.  Rocliford. 


Sir  John  and  Anne  Bo- 
leyn.  See  above. 


succeeded  his  grandfather, 
1555. 


dau.  of  Edward,  Earl  of 
Derby. 


1st  Baron  Huns- 
don,  died  1596. 


A 


Sir  Thomas 
Morgan. 


Mary,  1st  wife,=pSir  Ralph  Shel-=pAnne,  dau.  of  Thos.— Sir  Charles 


•dau.  of  Sir  ffm. 
Wodehouse. 


ton,  Sheriff  of 
Norfolk,  1570. 


A 


Barrow,  of  Barn- 
ingham,  Suffolk. 


Cornwallis, 
2d  husb. 


George  Carey,  2d=rElizabeth,  John  Carey,  2d= 
Baron  Hunsdon;  dau.  of  Sir  son,  3d  Baron 
no  male  issue.  Jn.  Spencer.  Hunsdon. 

A 


-Mary  Hyde, 
widow  of 
Ricd.  Peyton. 


Henry  Shelton,  of- 
Shelton,  bapt.  1577 ; 
■died  1635. 


:Elizabeth,  dau.  of 
Thomas  Jermyn, of 
Debden,  Suffolk. 


Blanche  Carey, =j=Sir  Thomas  Wode- 


widow  of  Chris¬ 
topher  Peyton. 


house,  2d  Bart. 
Kimberley. 


of 


Henry,  4th  Baron  Huns-=T=Judith,  dau.  of  Sir  Thomas 
don  ;  created  Earl  of  I  Pelham,  of  Loughton,  Sus- 
Dover,  1627.  |  sex,  Bart.,  1st  wife. 

A 


Maurice  Shelton,  of  Barningham,=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Sir  Robert 
•Suffolk ;  died  1666.  Kemp,  of  Gissing,  Bart. 


Anne  Wodehouse,  1st  wife;  mar  =j=Robert Suckling,  Sheriff  of  Nor- 
1635,  died  1653.  folk  1664 ;  died  1690. 


Sarah  Shelton,  4th  dau.,  Hiar.=f  Robert  Suckling, 


at  Barningham, 
1669 ;  died  1695. 


co.  Suffolk, 


Sheriff  of  Norfolk 
1701 ;  died  1707. 


Sir  Charles  Turner,  of  Warham,  co.  Nor-: 
folk,  Baronet ;  mar.  2d,  dau.  of  Sir  Wm. 
Blois,  of  Coekfield,  Suffolk. 


Mary,  sister  of  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  1st 
Earl  of  Orford  and  of  Horatio,  Lord 
Walpole  of  Wolterton,  1st  wife. 


Robert  Suckling,  of  Woodton,  Bar-=j=Dorothy,  dau.  of  John  Berney,  of  Swar- 


sham,  and  Shipmeadow  ;  bapt.  at 
Barsham,  1673 ;  died  1734. 


deston,  co.  Norfolk,  by  Elizabeth,  dau. 
of  Sir  Arthur  Onslow,  Bart. 


Rec¬ 
tor  of  Barsham,  Suffolk,  and  Pre¬ 
bendary  of  Westminster  ;  d.  1730. 


A 


=Anne  Turner,  born  1691 ; 
died  atBurnhamThorpe, 
1768;  bur.  in  Barsham 
chancel. 


Catherine  Suckling, - 
born  at  Barsham  in 
1725 ;  mar.at  Beccles, 
1749  ;  died  at  Burn¬ 
ham  Thorpe,  1767. 


;R.ev.  Edmund  Nelson, 
C urate  at  Be ccle s , 1 746; 
Rector  of  Burnham 
Thorpe,  died  1802. 


Maurice  Suckling,  Captain  R.N.,=Mary,  dau.  of  Ho- 
Nelson’s  uncle,  patron,  &  friend;  ratio,  Lord  Wal- 
Comptroller  of  the  Navy,  1778 ;  pole,  mar.  25  June 
bur.  at  Barsham,  1778  ;  s.p.  1761 ;  died  1778. 


William  Suckling,  b.  at=pElizabeth 


Barsham  1730  ;  Comp¬ 
troller  of  Customs ;  died 
1798,  bur.  at  Barsham. 


Brown, 
1st  wife, 
mar.  1760. 


A 


William  Nelson,  D.D.,  born=j=Sarah,  dau.  of 

Rev.  Henry 
Young;  mar. 
1786;  d.  1828. 


1757 ;  created  1st  Earl  Nel¬ 
son  ;  died  1835 ;  bur.  in  St. 
Paul’s  Cathedral. 


A 


Horatio,  Yisoount  Nelson  Catherine  Nelson, 
of  the  Nile ;  born  1758  ;  born  1767 ;  mar. 
killed  at  Trafalgar ;  bur.  George  Matcham, 
in  St.  Paul’s  Cathedral.  and  had  issue. 


Susannah  Nelson, =j=Thomas  Bolton,  ofWells, 


born  1753 ;  mar. 
1780 ;  buried  at 
Burnham  Thorpe, 
1813. 


co.Norf  oik,  a  descendant 
of  the  Boltons  of  Wood- 
bridge,  co.  Suffolk;  died 
1834. 


Thomas  Bolton,  born  1786,  took- 
the  name  of  Nelson;  succeeded 
his  uncle,  William  Nelson,  as  2d 
Earl  Nelson,  1835. 


:Frances  Elizabeth,  dau. 
and  heir  of  John  Mau¬ 
rice  Eyre,  of  Landford, 
co.  Wilts. 


Catherine  Bolton,  mar.  her 
cousin,  Sir  William  Bolton, 
Kt.,  Captain  R.N.  1803 ; 
died  1842,  leaving  issue. 


Elizabeth  Anne,  mar.  in  1811 
Rev.  Henry  Girdlestone,  Rec¬ 
tor  of  Landford,  co.  Wilts ; 
she  died  1871,  Eet.  86. 


A 


- ! — I — I 

George  Bolton, 
ob.  s.p. 

J  emimaSusanna 
and  Anne. 


Through  their  ancestors,  the  Boltons  of  Woodbridge,  the  Earls  Nelson  can  claim  yet  another  line  of  descent  from 
Edward  1.  Thomas  Bolton,  of  that  town,  about  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century,  married  Mary,  sister  of  Sir 
William  Wiseman,  of  Canfield,  in  Essex,  Baronet,  whose  great  grandfather, |  Sir  William  Waldegrave,  of  Smalbridge,  died  in 
1554.  Sir  William  Waldegrave  who  died  in  1524,  the  grandfather  of  this  Sir  William,  married  Margery,  grand-daughter  of 
Roger  Wentworth,  of  Nettlested,  by  Margery,  widow  of  Lord  Roos  and  daughter  of  Sir  Philip  le  Spencer.  Sir  Philip  was 
fourth  in  descent  from  Hugh  le  Despencer,  Earl  of  Gloucester,  the  husband  of  Eleanor  de  Clare,  daughter  and  coheir  to 
the  Princess  Joan  of  Acre,  King  Edward  I’s  daughter  by  Eleanor  of  Castile.  The  Royal  lineage  of  Margery  Wentworth, 
wife  of  Sir  William  Waldegrave,  is  given  more  at  length  and  in  pedigree 1  form  in  vol  i,  page  313,  of  this  work. 


jfulmerston,  IjcAuatti. 


Mill  of  S>ir  Etrharft  Jfalimraton,  1566. 

The  23th  daye  of  Januarie  1566,  I  Sir  Richarde  Fulmlston  of  Thetforde,  Knight,  dooe 

make  theis  my  last  will.  First  I  comende  my  Soull  to  the  Infinite  mercy  of  the  Holly 

Trinitie,  and  my  boddie  to  be  buried  within  the  Parrishe  church  of  Sainte  Marie  in  Thetforde. 

The  ffunerall  whereof  I  will  shalbe  doon  in  suche  order  as  by  the  Lawes  of  this  Realme  is 

to  be  used.  I  will  haue  a  Conveniente  Tombe  of  ffreston  erected  over  me  and  my  wief. 

Myne  Executors  shall  cause  to  be  distributed  amonges  the  poore  in  Thetforde,  at  or  before  the 

daye  of  my  Burial],  fyve  poundes ;  to  the  poore  in  Croxton  tenne  shillinges ;  to  the  poore  in 
Kilverdeston  and  Brettenham  tenne  shillinges ;  in  Russheforde  iij8  iiijd ;  in  Eweston  vs ;  in  bothe 

the  parrisshes  of  Barneham  x8 ;  in  Elvedon  xx8 ;  in  Downeham .  Executors  shall  haue 

my  Chef  bowse  here  at  Thetforde  wherein  I  nowe  dwell,  together  with  the  pastures  in  my  owne 

handes  thervnto  belonging,  and  they  to  kepe  howse  there  during  the  time  of  three  monethes 

withe  my  provisions  remeyning  in  my  saide  howse  &  pastures.  So  as  in  that  time  my  §untes 
may  provide  for  them  selves  otherwise.  A  devyse  shall  be  made  to  have  a  preacher  founde 
for  ever  to  preche  the  word  of  god  within  the  said  church  of  Sainte  Marie  fower  times  in  the 
yere.  I  give  to  my  Executors  and  their  heires  the  Trinitie  churcheyard  and  the  Black  ffriars 
yarde  in  Thetforde  and  three  tenementes  in  the  parrishe  of  St.  Maries  in  Thelforde.  Allso 
one  other  Tenemente  in  St.  Maries  parrishe  wherein  certene  poore  ffolkes  doo  nowe  dwell,  that 
they  or  the  svivors  of  them  procure  Lycence  from  the  Quene  to  erecte  and  establishe  a  Free 
grammer  Schole  within  Thetforde  for  ever.  And  that  they  make  the  three  firste  tenementes  in 
one,  for  the  howse  and  chamber  of  the  Scholemr  and  Vssher  and  their  successors  for  ever.  And 
that  they  doo  make  the  other  tenement  for  the  habitacion  of  ffowre  poore  people,  twoo  to  be 
men  and  twoo  woomen  for  ever.  Mannors  landes  and  tentes  to  be  assured  to  the  valewe  of 
thirtie  and  fyve  poundes  for  the  better  meintenhce  of  precher,  Schole  and  poore  people.  I  will 
vnto  Thomas  Fulmerston  of  Lopham  in  the  Countie  of  Norff :  my  sunte  and  kinsman,  and  his 
heires  my  close  called  Roses  in  Farsefeild  and  Bresingham — that  he  or  they  shall  at  twooe  times 
in  the  yere  distribute  amonges  the  poore  prisoners  within  the  Gaole  for  the  Countie  of  Norff : 
tenne  shillinges  and  to  the  poore  prisoners  within  the  Gaole  of  Burie  Saincte  Edmonde  syxe 
shillinges  eighte  pence,  and  to  the  poore  prisoners  within  the  prison  of  Melton  in  the  Countie 
of  Suff :  three  shillinges,  fower  pence — So  that  the  Gaolers  shall  not  haue  anythinge  to  dooe  in 
the  distributing  of  the  saide  money. 

2  0 


210 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Agreement  betwene  my  Brother  Sir  John  Clere,  Knighte,  deceased  and  me,  made  vppon 
the  marriage  then  to  be  hadd  betwene  Edward  Clere  then  his  sonne  and  heyre  apparaunte 
and  Fraunces  now  his  wief  my  daughter  and  heire  apparate,  now  hadd  and  doon.  I  dooe 
leave  vnto  saide  Fraunces  my  Manor  of  Snareshill  within  the  Countie  of  Norff,  and  my 
Mannor  of  Thetforde,  late  belonging  to  the  Duchie  of  Lancastre  and  my  chief  mansion  howse 
at  Thetforde  Ac.  And  for  lack  of  yssue  of  said  Edwarde  Clere  and  Frauncis  my  daughter 
I  will  the  same  shall  wholly  remeyne  vnto  my  lorde  and  master,  Thomas  Duke  of  Norff.,  and 
his  heires  for  ever.  Vppon  this  condicion,  That  he  shall  assuer  vnto  the  saide  Thomas 
Fulmston,  and  for  lack  of  yssue  vnto  Christopher  Fulmerston  his  brother,  with  remeinder 
to  mye  right  heires,  landes  of  the  clere  yerelie  valewe  of  twentie  poundes  within  the  Counties 
of  Norff.  and  Suff.  Ac.  Ac.  Myne  Executours  and  the  survivors  of  them  shall  haue  the 
Mannors  of  Monkeshall,  Staynes  A  Rusheford  in  Elveden,  with  my  other  landes  and  Stock  and 
Cattail  going  vppon  the  same  in  the  saide  Countie  of  Suff.,  for  the  terme  of  tenne  yeres, 
with  remainder  to  said  Edwarde  and  Frauncis  vntill  Richarde  Fulmerston,  seconde  sonne  of 
saide  Thomas  Fulmerston  of  Lopham,  (be)  twentie-fowre.  Thomas  Fulmerston  eldest  sonne  of  the 
said  Thomas  at  his  full  age  of  twentie  fowre  yeres.  John  Fulmerston  sonne  of  the  saide  Chrofer. 

I  give  and  bequeathe  vnto  Thomas  Heywarde  my  lunte  and  sonne  in  lawe  and  Agnes 
now  his  wief,  the  thirde  parte  of  my  plate,  Juells  and  household  stuff,  and  the  other  thirde 
parte  of  my  vtensills  of  husbandrie  and  of  my  horses  here  at  my  howse  at  Thetforde :  my 
close  called  Letten  close  in  Carbrok  or  Letton,  co.  Norff. ;  or  elles  for  lack  of  said  landes  to 
paye  said  Thomas  Hayward  the  some  of  350  markes  to  purchase  landes  liimselfe.  And  to  my 
daughter  Heyward,  my  saide  sonne  in  lawe’s  wief,  three  skore  ewes  and  three  skore  ewe  hogges 
or  lambes.  Thomas  and  Richarde  Fulmerston  the  sonnes  of  Thomas  Fulmerston  of  Lopham  my 
kinsman  and  also  John  Fulmerston  sonne  of  Chrofer  Fulmerston  his  brother  dwelling  at  Stowe  in 
Norfolk.  To  Thomas  Fulmerston  of  Lopham  one  hundred  poundes.  To  Chrofer  Fulmerston 
ffortie  poundes.  Special  bequests  to  sonne  and  daughter  Clere,  hartelie  desyering  them  to  spende 
the  same  yearelie  in  keping  hospatalitie  in  my  howse  at  Thetforde.  I  doo  most  humblie 
Beseche  his  grace  my  lorde  A  mr  the  Duke  of  Norff.  to  be  one  of  my  chief  executoures.  I 
make  my  verry  ffrendes,  Osbert  Moundeford  and  John  Bleverhassett  Esquires  and  Edwarde 
Pecock  gentleman,  three  other  of  my  executrs.  And  finallie  I  doo  ordeine  my  verry  trustie  and 

loving  ffrendes  Sir  Thomas  Cornewallis  Kt.  A  Walter  Haddon  Esquier  to  be  Supervisoures. 

Martine  Vanknewbeck,  Edwarde  Crispe  A  others,  witnesses. 

In  codicil  of  the  same  date  is  a  list  of  those  to  whom  “  black  cloathe  gownes  and 
cotes  ”  are  given  to  be  worn  at  the  testator’s  funeral.  Mention  is  also  made  of  his  tenement 
in  Elveden,  called  Burvis,  with  the  lande  belonging.  Vicesimo  primo  Novembris  1567  Emanavit 
comissio  Edwardo  Clere  Ar  et  Francisce  eius  vxor,  filie  dicti  defunct,  eo  qtf  Prenobilis  Thomas 
Dux  Norff,  Ac ,  expresse  renunciaverunt,  ad  administrand  bona  eiusdem  defuncti. 

P.C.C.  33  Stonard. 

From  1537  downwards  the  testator,  then  Richard  Fulmerston  of  Ipswich,  gentleman,  made 
large  purchases  of  abbey  buildings  and  church  lands.  We  learn  from  his  Inquisition  post-mortem 
that  he  held  the  Manor  of  Thetford  Finches  in  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  the  late  Monastery  of  the 
Canons  of  the  Holy  Sepulchre,  the  site  of  the  Dominican  Monastery  with  the  Hospital  of  God’s 

House,  the  Rectories  and  Churches  of  Holy  Trinity,  St.  Cuthbert,  and  St.  Andrew,  and  the 

Benedictine  Nunnery,  all  in  that  town ;  also  the  Manors  of  Monk’s  Hall  and  Staines  in  Elveden 


MAY,  FULMERSTON,  HEYWARD. 


211 


and  the  Rectory  there,  together  with  lands  in  Brandon  Ferry,  the  Barnhams,  Downham,  Croxton, 
and  Westwicke.  In  ancient  times  the  greater  part  of  Thetford,  where  these  abbeys  where,  was 
on  the  Suffolk  side  of  the  river,  now  forming  St.  Mary’s  parish.  He  converted  the  Nunnery 
into  his  residence,  and  lived  and  died,  so  far  as  domicile  went,  a  Suffolk  man.  He  was  buried 
in  St.  Mary’s  Church,  where  a  sumptuous  monument,  now  greatly  delapidated,  was  erected  to 
his  memory.  The  Grammar  School  and  Hospital  for  the  Poor,  his  benefactions  to  the  town, 
were  also  in  Suffolk.  The  Arms  granted  him  by  Sir  Gilbert  Dethick,  in  the  reign  of  Queen 
Mary,  are  variously  described.  Burke  gives  them  as  Or,  on  a  fesse  between  three  doves  Azure, 
a  rose  between  two  garbs  of  the  first.  Davy  describes  the  birds  as  sea  mews.  The  Crest  is 
a  goat’s  head  erased  Gules,  platee,  armed  Or,  holding  in  its  mouth  a  branch  with  roses.  “  An 
eglantine  branch  vert,”  says  Davy,  flowered  argent.  Eglantine  is  an  old  world  name  for  the 
sweetbriar,  and  occasionally  for  the  wild  rose.  Halliwell. 


Will  of  GUjomas  1586. 

The  fouretenth  daie  of  Julie,  1586,  Thomas  Heywarde  late  of  Thetforde  and  nowe  of 
Brettenham  in  the  countie  of  Norfolke,  gent.  I  commende  mie  sowle  to  thinfinite  mercie  of  the 
holie  Trinitie.  My  foure  sonnes  Thomas,  Charles,  John  and  Frauncis  Heywarde  ar  all  vnder  age. 
I  giue  to  everye  of  theim  a  hundreth  pounds  a  piece  at  his  age  of  twentie  and  five  yeares. 
Children  of  mie  sonne  William  Heiwarde.  Children  of  mie  daughter  Alice  Fulmerston.  My 
mother  in  lawe  Mris  Joane  Haines,  Mr  Willm  Haynes  her  husband,  mie  brother  in  law 
Mr  Thomas  Wyles  and  Margaret  his  wyffe,  Alice  Fulmerston  mie  daughter  and  Richarde 
Fulmerston  mye  sonne  in  lawe.  Agnes  Wyles  my  late  servant.  Mie  brothers  in  lawe  Mr  John 
Woodshawe,  &  Mr  James  Woodshawe  whom  I  ordeyne  executors.  Agnes  mie  wyffe.  Land 
appointed  to  be  bought  by  Sr  Richard  Fulmerston  his  will  with  the  assent  of  Mr  Edward 
Cleere.  Agnes  Heiwarde  mie  daughter.  Mie  sonne  William  Heywarde. 

This  will  was  reade  before  the  testa tor  bie  Mr  James  Woodshawe,  one  of  the  executors, 
and  bie  (him)  acknowledged  and  bie  him  with  his  owne  hande  subscribed  and  sealled  and 
delivered  to  bothe  the  saide  executo1'5  then  present  in  a  certaine  vpper  chamber  next  vnto  the 
orcharde  of  the  howse  of  Mr  John  Woodshawe  at  Plaistowe  in  Essex,  the  daie  and  yeares 
aforesaid  in  the  presence  of  vs  John  Lawe,  Thomas  Wyles. 

Probatum  penultimo  die  July  1586,  procuris  Johannis  Woodshawe  et  Jacobi  Woodshawe. 

P.C.C.  40  Windsor. 

The  will  of  John  Woodshaw  of  the  City  of  London,  gentleman,  Thomas  Heyward’s  brother 
in  law,  is  dated  Septr  2n<1  1587.  He  names  James  Woodshaw  his  brother,  and  ordains  his  loving 
friend  Anthony  Lawe,  one  of  the  Proctors  of  the  Arches,  and  William  Benedict  of  London, 
Scrivener,  to  be  the  supervisors. 

C 


o 


212 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ffibanarn  proc^fotugs,  Heytoard  t.  ®ostlinge,  15$9. 

June  11th  1589.  Your  pore  orators  Thomas  Heyward  and  Agnes  his  wyfe,  Arthur  Wilton 
and  Martha  his  wyfe,  and  Margaret  Gostling,  complayn  that  one  Martha  Gostlinge,  late  of 
Topcroft,  co.  Norfolk,  wydowe,  grandmother  to  the  said  Agnes,  Martha  and  Margarett,  by  her 
last  testament,  dated  about  May  11th  in  the  27th  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth  (1585)  willed  them 
legacies,  to  be  paid  when  they  severally  became  of  age.  She  left  lands  called  Parkfield  in 
Hempnall,  in  all  about  fifty  acres,  to  one  Robert  Gostlinge  to  fulfill  the  said  will,  appointing 
him  and  Myles  Warde  executors.  The  widow  dyed,  having  previously  sold  the  lands  for  £440. 
Your  orators  have  long  since  attained  their  ages  of  one  and  twenty  years ;  but  their  legacies 
are  unpaid.  Eliz.  B.  &  A  ,  H.  H.  2,  20. 

The  pedigree  of  the  Thetford  Heywards  which  found  its  way  into  the  collection  of 
Norfolk  genealogies,  made  by  R.  Mundy  in  1620,  known  as  Harleian  MS.  1552,  practically  assigns 
to  Thomas  Heyward  and  Anne  Gostling.  the  children  of  Thomas  Heyward,  his  father,  and  Anne 
Woodshaw — a  by  no  means  unprecedented  blunder.  They  are  all  named  in  the  will  which 
Anne  Woodshaw’s  husband  made  in  1586,  the  year  of  his  death. 

This  Chancery  Bill  of  1589,  shows  that  Thomas  Heyward  and  Ann  Gostling,  who  were 
then  comparatively  young,  lived  a  generation  later  than  the  father  of  Alice  Heyward— successively 
the  wife  of  Richard  Fulmerston,  John  Lawe,  and  Dean  Suckling. 


®I)anm*5  |3  mailings,  UnjiuarD  buckling,  162$. 

Thomas  Heyward  th’elder  of  Tauerham,  co.  NorfF.,  gent.,  did  receive  of  Alice  Suckling, 
widowe,  his  sister,  lately  the  wife  of  Edmund  Sucklinge,  D.D.,  before  her  marriage,  £700,  to  be 
no  part  of  the  estate  of  the  said  Doctor.  About  thirtene  years  last  past  said  marriage  was 
had.  Orator  entered  into  covenants,  dated  23rd  Jan.  1615,  to  pay  the  said  Alice  £85  yerely 
during  her  life.  Orator  had  lease  of  the  Scyte  of  the  Manor  of  Balsham  and  lands  in 
Cambridgeshire,  for  severall  terms  of  yeares,  made  by  the  Governors  of  King  James’  Hospital 
in  Chrdhouse,  co.  Middx.,  at  the  charges  of  Thomas  Sutton,  Esqb  Orator  did  assign  these 
premisses  to  Dr.  Suckling  and  Alice  his  wife  for  the  residue  of  the  termes  of  years.  (Intricate 
proceedings.)  Bonds  given  by  Orator.  Agreements  well  known  to  said  Alice  and  to  Charles 
Suckling,  Esqr,  brother  of  the  said  Doctor.  About  19th  May  last  past  Dr  Suckling  dyed. 
Charles  Suckling  proved  his  will.  Moneys  were  to  be  paid  yerely  at  Dr.  Spencer’s  Tomb  in 
Christ  Church  in  Norwich.  Orator  and  Orator’s  son,  Thomas  Heyward  the  younger.  Charles 
Suckling  refuses  to  deliver  said  bonds  and  to  pay  certain  moneys. 

Answere  of  Alice  Suckling,  widowe,  one  of  the  Defendants,  18  Oct.  1628.  Fully  agrees 
that  Charles  Suckling  should  deliver  the  bonds  and  the  money  named  in  the  bill. 

Answer  of  Charles  Suckling,  Esqr.  Refers  to  Declaration  made  by  Dr.  Suckling  after  he 
had  made  his  will  and  before  his  death.  If  the  Court  think  fit  and  compell  him  he  will  paie 
the  money  &c.  out  of  the  Doctor’s  personall  estate. 


Charles  I,  B.  &  A.,  H.  H.  47.  1, 


MAY,  FULMERSTON,  HEYWARD. 


213 


Jttag,  fulmerston,  i^egtoarli. 


.  .  .  May,  named  as  former^ 
husband  in  Thom  asSpring’s 
Will,  1523 ;  described  as 
“  Lonzam  of  Suff.”  in  Karl. 
MS.  1552,  in  mistake  for 
May  of  Lonham,  i.e.  Lav- 
enham. 


:Alice,  dau.  of  .  .  .  King,  of  Box- 
ford,  co.  Suff.,  2d  wife  of  Thomas 
Spring.  Ryece,  Harl.  MS.  3873. 
ner  Will,  P.C.C.  1538,  names  her 
daus.,  Risby  and  Fulmerston. 
Bridget  Spring,  her  dau.  m.  Wm. 
Emley,of  Sussex.  Harl.MS.1046. 


:Thomas  Spring,  of  Lan-= 
ham,  or  Lavenham,  co. 
Suffolk,  the  “  Rich 
Clothier.”  Will  P.C.C. 
1523.  See  Dr.  Howard’s 
Visitation  of  Suffolke, 
1561 ,  vol.  i,  171. 


- Alice,  1st  wife,  sister  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Appleton,  of  Little  Wald- 
ingfield,  co.  Suffolk,  who  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  11  Bennett  1504. 
She  died  20  Jan.  1512.  See 
Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol. 
i,  323,  329. 


A 


William  Risby,  of=j=Margaret  May.  She 
Lavenham.  Will, 

P.C.C.  23  Powell, 

14  Nov.  1551  ; 
named  with  his 
wife  in  his  mother- 
in-law’s  Will, 1538. 


made  Will  as  Mar¬ 
garet  Risby,  wo., 
P.C.C.  4Tashel  1552, 
naming  her  sister, 
Alice  Fulmerston. 
Suff.  Manl.  Fams,, 
i,  69. 


Thomas  Heyward,  of = 
Ipswich,  1st  hus¬ 
band,  son  probably 
of  Christopher  Hey¬ 
ward, of  Ipswich,  who 
made  Will  1536, 
P.C.C.  3  Crumwel. 


=j= Alice  May,  devisee  of- 
her  mother  and  her 
sister  Risby,  as  Alice 
Fulmerston ;  bur.  in 
St.  Mary’s  Church, 
Thetford,  Suffolk, 
with  her  2d  husb. 


A 


Sir  Richard  Fulmerston,  of 
Thetford  St.  Mary,  co.  Suffolk, 
Knt.  Will,  P.C.C.  33  Stonard, 
1567,  naming  son-in-law,  Thos. 
Heyward,  of  Ipswich  ;  was  of 
Ipswich,  gent.,  1537  ;  mont.  in 
St.  Mary’s  Church,  Thetford. 


Robert  Fulmers¬ 
ton,  of  Stow  Beo- 
kerton,in  co.  N  or- 
folk,  mar.  .  .  dau. 
of  . .  Goodwin,  of 
Hinderclay,  Suff. 
Harl.  MS.  1552. 


T 


Thomas  Heyward,  of  Thetford,  gent.,: 
stepson  and  devisee  of  Sir  Richard 
Fulmerston,  1567.  Will,  P.C.C.  40 
Windsor,  1586,  proved  30  July  ;  names 
Alice  Fulmerston,  his  dau.  and  bro- 
thers-in-law,  John  and  James  Wood- 
shaw. 


William  Heyward,  of  Banham  or 
Barnham,  co.  Norff.,  gent.  (Harl. 
MS.  1552)  ;  had  issue  1586,  when 
his  father  made  his  will ;  devisee 
of  Alice  Suckling,  his  sister,  1632. 


:Ann,  dau.  of  %  .  .  .  . 
Woodshaw,  of  Lon¬ 
don,  sister  of  John 
Woodshaw,  of  Lon¬ 
don,  gent.,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C., 
2  Sept.  1587. 


Frances  Fulmerston,  sole 
dau.  and  heiress,  aged  28 
in  1567 ;  devisee  of  her 
aunt  MargaretRisby, 1552 ; 
mar.  Sir  Edward  Clere,  of 
Blickling,  Knt.  She  died 
in  1579,  leaving  issue. 


Thomas  Fulmers-=pAlice, 
ton,  of  Lopham, 
Norfolk,  kinsman 
and  devisee  of  Sir 
Richard  Fulmers- 
tonl567.  Pedigree, 

Harl.  MS.  '1552. 


Alice, 

Christopher 

dau.  of 

Fulmerston, 

Robert 

named  in  Sir 

Thorne, 

Richard  Ful¬ 

of  Ded¬ 

merston’s 

ham,  co. 

Will  1567. 

Essex. 

John  Law,  of- 
the  Preroga¬ 
tive  Court,  in 
Ivy  Lane; 
D.C.L.  Will, 
P.C.C.  98 
Lawe,  1614. 


: Alice  Heyward,  ob.  s.p.- 
She  mar.  3dly  Edmund 
Suckling,  D.D.,  Dean  of 
Norwich,  who  ob.  1628. 
She  made  Will  as  Alice 
Suckling,  wo.,  P.C.C. 
126  Awdley,  1632. 


L  Richard  Fulmerston, 
2d  son,  devisee  of 
SirRichard  Fulmers¬ 
ton  1567,  and  of 
Thomas  Heyward 
1586;  1st  husband  of 
Alice  Heyward. 


Thomas  Ful¬ 
merston, eld¬ 
est  son,  devi¬ 
see  of  Sir 
Richard  Ful¬ 
merston 
1567. 


John  Fulmers¬ 
ton ,  son  of 
Christopher, 
named  1567  in 
Sir  Richard 
Fulmerston’s 
will. 


Thomas  Heyward,  of  Taverham,  co.  Norfolk,  gent.,= 
1628.  Heyward  c.  Suckling,  Chas.  I,  B.  &  A.,  H.H. 
471,  devisee  of  Alice  Suckling,  his  sister,  1632 ; 
plaintiff  in  Heyward  c.  Gostling,  Eliz.  B.  &  A.,  H.  2, 
20,  1589. 


=Ann,  dau.  of  William  Gostling,  of  Bed- 
ingharn,  Norfolk ;  devisee  of  her  grand¬ 
mother,  Margaret  Gostling,  of  Top- 
croft,  1585  ;  mar.  in  or  before  1589. 


- 1 — i — i — i - 1 

Thomas,  Charles,  John,  and  Agnes  Hey- 
Francis  Hayward,  named  in  ward, named 
their  father’s  will,  1686,  and  1586  in  her 
in  Harl.  MS.  1552.  father’sWill. 


Thomas  Heyward,  named  in  Heyward 
his  aunt,  Alice  Suckling,  1632. 


Suckling,  1628 ;  devisee  of 


John  Heyward,  named  1632  in  the  will  of  his  aunt,  Alice 
Suckling. 


(grant  of  <3lrms* 

To  all  and  singular  to  whom  this  present  shall  come  William  Camden  Esquier,  also 
Clarencieux  principle  herald  A  King  of  Arms  of  the  East,  West  &  South  parts  of  England  from 
the  river  of  Trent  southward,  sendeth  due  commendation  in  our  Lord  God  everlasting.  Forasmuch 
as  anciently  from  ye  beginning  it  was  ordained  that  men  of  wisdom,  virtuous  life  &  noble  courage, 
A  such  as  for  their  learning,  justice  A  discretion  are  made  Magistrates  in  their  native  Country 
A  Commonwealth,  have  been  worthily  commended  to  the  world  by  monuments  and  remembrances 
of  their  good  deserts,  amongst  which  ye  chiefest  and  most  usual  hath  been  the  bearing  of  Signs 
in  Shields  called  Arms.  In  which  respect  being  required  by  Thomas  Bolton  of  Woodbridge  in 
the  County  of  Suff.  Esq1'  to  search  in  the  Registers  A  Records  of  toy  office  for  such  ancient 
arms  as  pertain  to  y°  house,  name  &  family  whereof  he  is  descended,  as  also  to  ratifie  &  confirm 
the  samo  unto  him  with  the  Crest  belonging,  with  such  congruent  difference  as  he  may  lawfully 
bear  without  prejudice  of  any  other.  All  whose  gentle  A  reasonable  requests  upon  due 
consideration  of  his  good  desert  &  ability,  and  withall  being  credibly  informed  that  ye  said 
Thomas  is  lineally  descended  from  the  Boltons  of  Bolton  in  Lancashire,  I  the  sd  Clarencieux 
King  of  Arms  have  ratified  &  confirmed  unto  him  these  his  antient  Arms  following :  that  is  to 
say,  two  coats,  quarterly,  The  first,  sa.  a  falcon  arg4  beaked,  membred  A  bells,  gold ;  The  2d  gules, 
3  wolves’  heads  erased,  gold,  the  3d,  as  the  2d,  the  4th  as  the  1st : — for  his  difference,  a  trefoil 
vert : — A  for  his  Crest,  or  Cognizance,  On  a  wreath  of  his  colours,  a  falcon  arg4  with  like 
difference,  mantled  gules,  doubled  arg4  as  more  plainly  appeareth  depicted  on  the  Margent.  Which 
Arms  A  Crest  I  the  said  King  of  Arms  (by  power  A  authority  under  the  great  seal  of  England 

unto  my  office  annexed)  do  by  these  prsts  ratify  &  confirm  unto  the  said  Thomas  Bolton  Esqr  A 

to  his  posterity,  with  their  due  differences,  to  use  &  shew  forth,  in  shield,  Coat  Armour  or 
otherwise  (according  to  the  antient  laws  of  armes),  without  any  contradiction  of  any  Manner  of 
person.  In  witness  whereof,  I  the  said  King  of  Arms  have  hereunto  sett  my  hand  &  seale  of 
my  office.  Dated  at  London,  ye  25th  day  of  Aug4  1610.  and  in  the  13th  year  of  our  Sovereign  Lord, 
King  James.  William  Camden,  Clarenceux  King  of  Arms. 

This  Grant,  relieved  of  some  of  its  redundant  verbiage,  is  taken  from  the  records  of  the 
Heralds’  College.  In  1803  Thomas  Bolton,  the  nephew  of  the  Hero  of  the  Nile,  served  as  one 
of  the  Esquires  at  Nelson’s  installation  as  a  Knight  of  the  Bath,  when  he  had  to  prove  his  right 

to  Arms.  He  memorialised  the  Earl  Marshal  for  a  grant,  stating  that  the  family  had  borne  the 

insignia  granted  by  Camden  in  1610  to  Thomas  Bolton  of  Woodbridge,  from  whom  he  was  by 
family  tradition  descended  ;  but  that  he  had  not  time  to  investigate  the  descent.  The  coat  allowed 
him  was  Sable,  on  a  mount  "Vert  in  base,  a  falcon  Ermine,  beak  and  bells  Or ;  in  the  mouth  a 
trefoil  slipped  of  the  second.  Crest,  on  a  mount  Yert,  a  falcon,  as  in  the  Arms. 


BOLTON  OF  WOODBRIDGK. 


215 


In  the  books  kept  by  the  Genealogist  of  the  Bath  is  a  pedigree,  dated  1805,  wherein  his 
descent  is  shewn  from  the  Grantee,  although  the  Arms  annexed  are  those  allowed  in  1803. 
From  the  information  of  C.  G.  Young,  181/2,  Garter  King  of  Arms. 

The  Arms  of  the  Boltons  of  Norfolk,  who  were  for  some  generations  previously  seated  at 
Boyland  Hall  in  Bressingham  and  Diss  Heywood,  were  Argent,  on  a  bend  engrailed  Gules,  three 
leopards’  faces  of  the  field.  Hail.  MS.  1552.  See  their  fuller  pedigree,  Harl.  MS.  6093. 


Mill  of  Sljomas  Holton,  1616* 

I,  Thomas  Bolton  of  Woodbridge  in  the  Countie  of  Suff :  gentleman,  vppon  the  fower 
and  twentith  daye  of  Januarye,  1616,  do  ordayne  and  declare  this  my  last  will  and  testament. 
First  I  commend  my  soule  into  the  mercifull  hand68  of  the  Almightie  god,  trusting  throughe  the 
meritts  of  his  sonne  Christe  Jesus  to  be  made  partaker  of  the  Kingdome  of  heaven.  I  give  to 
the  poore  of  Woodbridge,  with  other  poore  that  shall  come  to  my  Buriall,  six  poundes.  I  give 

to  Alice  my  wife  all  my  mesuage  and  landes  in  Melton  in  lieu  of  her  thirdes  and  dowry,  and 

therewith  also  to  bring  vp  in  the  feare  of  god  and  good  nourture  my  three  younge  children  Josias, 
Daniell  and  Sara.  And  I  will  that  Alice  my  wife  shall  paye  to  Josias  my  sonne  twentie  poundes 
a  yere  during  her  naturall  life.  And  after  her  decease  Josias  and  Daniell  my  twoe  youngest 
sonnes  shall  have  ioyntlie  togeather  my  (said)  mesuage.  I  bequeathe  to  Alice  my  wife,  during 
all  the  tyme  she  shall  liue  a  widowe,  the  moytie  of  my  mesuage  and  howse  wherein  I  nowe  dwell 
with  halfe  the  garden  &c.  Vnto  Thomas  my  sonne  my  mesuage,  howses,  landes  and  tenement 
in  Martellsham,  Belinges  magna,  Beling  parua,  Barkinston  or  elswhere,  vppon  Condition  that  he 
shall  perform  all  guiftes,  bequeathes  and  legaceys  appoynted  in  this  my  will.  Vnto  Thomas  my 
sonne  my  mesuage  and  lande  in  Fevertou  als  Teverton,  and  all  other  tenements,  remaynders  and 

titles  that  I  may  haue  righte  to.  Vnto  Thomas  my  sonne  all  my  partes  of  shipps  and  car  veils. 

I  bequeathe  to  John  my  sonne  fyve  poundes  to  be  paid  euery  quarter  of  the  yere  towardes  his 
mayntennce  at  Cambridge,  (and)  fifteene  poundes  when  he  shall  accomplishe  his  age  of  one  and 
twentie  yeres,  to  discharge  the  chardges  of  his  Commencement.  I  giue  him,  after  he  shall 
accomplish  his  full  age,  three  hundred  poundes,  vppon  condition  that  he  do  not  forsake  his 
begonne  Calling  of  a  Divine  for  seaven  yeres  next  folowing  the  date  hereof.  I  give  to  Alice  my 
daughter  twoe  hundred  poundes.  To  my  three  youngest  daughtrs,  Martha,  Susan  and  Sara,  to 
every  one  of  them  twoe  hundred  poundes,  when  they  shall  accomplish  the  seuerall  ages  of 
nynteene  yeres.  To  my  sonne  in'  lawe  William  Carye  and  Mary  his  wife  twentie  poundes.  To 
Thomas  Carye  my  graund  childe  twentie  markes  when  he  shall  accomplish  his  full  age.  I  make 
my  sole  executor  Thomas  my  sonne.  Yf  he  departe  this  life  before  my  three  youngest  children 
shall  accomplish  theire  seuerall  ages  of  one  and  twentie  yeres,  then  I  will  that  John  my  sonne 
shall  enter  into  the  landes  and  bring  vp  my  three  youngest  children.  Witnesse  Thomas  Ritcher 
and  John  Bolton. 

Probatum  decimo  sexto  die  Aprilis  1617  Juramento  Thome  Bolton  filij  dicti  defuncti. 

P.C.C.  31,  Weldon. 


216 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  uf  Hotel  Miseman,  1628. 

I  Robert  Wiseman  of  Canfield  inagna  in  the  Countie  of  Essex  Esq5,  the  17th  daie  of 
Aprill  1628,  doe  make  this  my  pfsent  testament  in  forme  following.  I  commend  my  sowle  vnto 
Allmightie  God,  and  my  bodie  to  be  buried  in  the  Chancell  of  the  church  of  Canfield  next  vnto 
my  last  wife.  I  make  my  brother  Wilim  Wyseman  my  Executor.  I  giue  vnto  (him)  my  mannor 
of  much  Canfield  and  my  mannor  of  little  Maplesteed  which  is  in  reuercdn  after  ye  death  of  my 
vncle  Edmond  Wiseman.  I  giue  vnto  my  brother  Thomas  Wiseman  twentie  poundes  a  yeere 
issueinge  out  of  fower  hundred  poundes  which  my  brother  in  lawe  William  Luckine  hath.  Vnto 
my  brother  Kenellme  Wiseman  twenty  poundes.  Vnto  Mary  Bolton,  now  wife  of  Thomas  Bolton 
of  Woodbridge  in  SufFolke,  twenty  poundes.  Vnto  my  sister  Susan  Wiseman  twentie  poundes. 
Vnto  my  sister  Parnell  Lycense  wife  of  John  License  of  Enfield  in  the  countie  of  Midd.  one 
hundred  pounds.  Vnto  my  Kinswoman  Rebecca  Wiseman,  daughter  of  Robert  Wiseman  Esqj 
the  suite  of  tenn  poundes.  I  ordaine  of  this  my  will  Henry  Glassecock  of  Hartisbury  in  the 
countie  of  Hartford  gent,  my  overseer.  I  give  vnto  the  said  Henry  tenn  ponndes  to  be  paid 
vnto  him  a  yeare  after  my  decease.  Sealed  and  delivered  in  the  psence  of  William  Wiseman, 
John  Reeve,  John  Turner,  William  Cummyne. 

Probatum  nono  die  Maij  1628  Juramento  Willirni  Wiseman  fratris  diet  defunct  et  executoris 
in  testamento  nominat. 

P.C.C. 

Robert  Wiseman,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Wiseman  of  Canfield  in  Essex,  was  brother 
to  Sir  William  Wiseman,  who  was  created  a  Baronet  in  1628,  and  to  Mary,  wife  of  Thomas 
Bolton  of  Woodbridge  named  in  his  will.  Ilarl.  MS.  1137.  He  married  Anne,  daughter  of  Sir 
Gamaliel  Capel,  but  died  without  surviving  issue. 


Cljaitmn  Carlson  r.  Solicit,  1657. 

Replication,  joynt  &  seuall,  of  John  Cawlton  &  Susan  his  wife  &  Sara  Bolton,  Complainants, 
to  the  Answers  of  Thomas  Bolton,  gent.  Sr  Wifhn  Wiseman,  Barronett,  Defendants.  Replyants 
say  that  Thomas  Bolton,  the  father  of  complainants  Susan  <fe  Sara  &  also  of  the  defendant  Thomas 
Bolton,  demised  the  legacies,  as  in  the  Bill  set  forth,  to  the  plaintiffs  Susan  A  Sara,  A  left  the 
lands  &  tenements  vnto  the  custody  of  defendant  Thomas  his  sonue,  and  said  Thomas  Bolton 
the  sonne  enioyed  the  same.  Complainants  John  Cawlton  A  Susan  his  wife  say  by  way  of 
Trause  that  defendant  Thomas  Bolton  hath  not  att  any  time  payed  them  any  pte  of  the  porcbn 
bequeathed  vnto  the  said  Susan.  Complainant  Sara  makes  a  similar  statement.  These  Replyants 
say  ioyntly  that  by  combination  the  most  pte  of  the  defendant  Thomas  Bolton  is  estated  or 
settled  in  the  defendant  Sr  Wihm  Wiseman  in  trust  for  the  vse  of  said  Thomas  Bolton  A  Mary 
his  wrife,  vppon  noo  iust  consideracon,  but  merely  to  defeat  the  Complainants. 


Chanc.  Proc.,  Charles  I.,  B.  A  A.,  C.C.  114,  14. 


BOLTON  OF  WOODB RIDGE. 


217 


MtU  of  Jtxcljalas  Sljmte,  1652. 

The  fourth  day  of  August,  1652,  I  Nicholas  Sheene  of  Alderton,  co.  Suff.,  gent.,  do 
publish  and  declare  ray  last  will.  I  do  stand  bound  unto  Josias  Boulton  of  Alderton,  gent., 
for  the  gformance  of  certain  Articles  of  agreement  between  me  and  the  said  Josias  on  the 
behalfe  of  Sarah  Armiger,  widdow,  his  sister,  vpon  my  marriage  with  her,  that  I  should  leave 
her  one  thousand  and  four  hundred  pounds ;  now  I,  in  pformance  of  the  said  Articles  and  bond, 
doe  hereby  devise  that  all  my  psonall  estate  (except  a  gray  nagg  which  I  giue  vnto  the  sayd 
Sarah)  shall  be  sould  by  her,  Daniell  Sheene  my  brother,  and  Robert  Chittocke  my  brother  in 
lawe,  and  out  of  the  money  she,  my  said  wife,  to  pay  my  debts  and  legacies,  and  receive  to 
her  owne  vse  the  sume  of  1450*.  And  of  the  overplus  which  shall  reniaine,  I  will  that  the  said 
Sarah  shall  paye  to  Augustine  Sheene,  sonne  of  Augustine  Sheene  my  brother,  the  one  halfe  of 
said  overplus  ;  and  the  other  halfe  in  bequests  to  Nicholas  Chittocke  my  nephew,  sonne  of 
said  Robert  Chittocke  my  brother  in  lawe,  Robert  Chittock,  Edmund  Chittocke  and  Anne 
Chittock.  To  Daniell  Sheene  my  brother  my  messuage  called  the  White  Horse  in  Framlingham, 
co.  Suffolk,  for  life,  with  remainder  to  the  said  Augustine  Sheene  my  nephewe.  To  Josias 

Bolton,  gent.,  my  brother  in  law,  five  pounds.  To  Thomas  Alexander  the  younger,  gent, 

twentie  shillings  to  buy  him  a  ring.  Vnto  the  said  Sarah  my  wife  and  her  heirs  my  messuage 
in  Framlingham  which  I  purchased  of  Henry  Kinge,  and  the  messuage  purchased  of  John 
Base :  and  my  messuage  in  Worlingworth,  to  make  sale  of  them  and  to  pay  1501  to  the  Master, 

Wardens,  and  Comonaltie  of  the  Misterie  of  Vintners  of  the  Cittie  of  London,  to  the  vse  of 

Thomas  Bullock.  Vnto  my  sister  Chittock,  Wiseman  Bolton  gent,  and  Mary  Bolton  five  pounds 
a  peice.  I  ordaine  Sarah  my  wife  my  sole  Executrix ;  and  make  my  trusty  friend  Thomas 
Alexander  the  elder,  of  Framlingham,  gent.,  my  supvisor  of  this  my  last  will.  I  give  unto  him 
the  sume  of  ten  pounds.  Witnesses  Josias  Bolton,  Robert  Armiger. 

This  will  was  proved  the  20th  day  of  May  1653  by  the  oath  of  Sarah  Shene,  the  Executrix. 

P.C.C. 


Will  of  §aral)  1655. 

I  Sarah  Sheene  of  Alderston  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  widdowe,  doe  ordeine  this  my 
last  Will  and  Testament.  I  bequeath  to  Josias  Bolton,  my  brother  now  liveinge  with  mee,  the 
vse  of  three  hundred  poundes  duringe  his  naturall  life :  and  after  his  death  this  three  hundred 
poundes  shall  bee  distributed  in  this  manner : — ffif tie  poundes  to  Wiseman  Bolton,  my  nephew, 
now  also  liveinge  with  mee;  tfifty  poundes  to  William  Bolton  of  Ipswich,  my  nephew;  fiiftie 
poundes  to  John  Carleton ;  ffiftie  poundes  to  William  Carleton,  his  brother;  ffiftie  poundes  to 
Edmund  Bolton,  brother  to  the  aforesaid  Wiseman  Bolton ;  and  ffiftie  poundes  to  Thomas  Bolton, 
now  apprentise  to  John  Hart  of  Woodbridge.  To  Susan  Carleton,  my  neece,  now  livinge  with 
mee,  two  hundred  poundes  at  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  Vnto  my  eldest  brother  the 
vse  of  one  hundred  pound  duringe  life,  and  after  his  decease  that  hundred  pounds  to  be  divided 
betweene  my  sister  Filby  and  Mary  Harvy,  my  neeee,  of  Sutton.  I  give  to  Wiseman  Bolton, 
my  nephew,  ffiftie  poundes  more.  To  Allan  Bolton,  the  sonne  of  John  Bolton  my  second 
brother,  twenty  poundes.  To  John  Bolton  sonne  of  the  aforesaid  John  twenty  fiive  poundes. 
To  Jane  Bolton  daughter  of  the  same  John  twentie  poundes.  To  Thomas  Bolton,  sonne  of  the 
aforesaid  John,  twentie  ffive  poundes.  Vnto  John  Petto,  the  sonne  of  .  .  .  Petto  of  Baudsey, 

2  D 


218 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ffive  poundes.  My  will  is  that  my  brother  Josias  Bolton  shall  have  one  hundred  poundes, 
besides  the  vse  of  the  three  hundred  poundes  duringe  his  life.  If  Susan  Carleton  departe  this 
life  before  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares,  that  two  hundred  poundes  shall  be  divided 
betweene  her  two  brothers  John  and  William  Carleton.  To  Mary  Bolton  the  wife  of  Thomas 
Bolton  of  Woodbridge  ffifty  poundes.  To  Mary  Cary  the  wife  of  William  Cary  of  Woodbridge 
ffifty  poundes.  Vnto  my  sister  Chittock,  sister  to  my  late  Husband  Sheene,  ffifty  poundes. 
Vnto  Josias  Bolton  my  brother  and  his  heirs  my  house  in  Alderton,  in  the  occupation  of  John 
Johnson.  Vnto  Augustine  Sheene,  nephew  to  my  late  husband  Sheene,  twenty  poundes.  Lastlie 
I  doe  nominate  my  brother  William  Cary  of  Woodbridge  and  my  brother  Thomas  Filby  of 
Tuddenham  Executors  of  this  will,  giveinge  vnto  them  all  that  l  have  not  herin  bequeathed 
towards  the  payment  of  my  debts.  The  seventh  day  of  March  1653. 

This  will  was  proved  the  6th  day  of  July  1654  by  the  oath  of  Thomas  Filby,  one  of 
the  Executors.  P.C.C.,  405  Alehin. 


Mill  of  SSiisnttait  IB  niton,  1658. 

Memorandum,  4th  June,  1658.  That  Wiseman  Bolton  of  Ipswich  in  the  County  of  Suff., 
gent.,  deceased,  whitest  he  lived  and  was  of  good  memory,  about  the  fourth  day  of  May  last 
past,  a  day  or  twoe  before  his  death,  with  an  intent  to  settle  and  dispose  of  his  estate,  did 
by  word  of  mouth  declare  the  same  in  these  words.  “  £  giue  vnto  my  brother  William  Bolton 
all  my  estate  whatsoever  And  I  make  him  my  Executor.  Or  the  said  Wisman  [sic]  Bolton  did 
declare  his  Will  and  Testament  in  words  to  the  like  effect.  In  the  presence  of  Robert 
Sparham,  Apothecary,  Anthony  Applewhite,  habbed  of  small  wares  and  others. 

This  will  was  proved  at  London  the  15th  day  of  June  1558  by  the  oathe  of  William 
Bolton,  the  brother  and  Executor.  P.C.C.,  494  Wootton. 


Mill  of  jitary  Bolton,  1685. 

Mary  Bolton  of  Woodbridge  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  widowe,  the  eighth  day  of 
September,  1683.  To  be  decently  buried  vnder  the  Gravestone  where  the  Body  of  my  late 
Husband  lies  interred,  hopeing  of  a  glorious  Resurrection.  1  give  vnto  Thomas  Bolton  my  sonne 
a  Birded  Coverlett,  as  it  now  stands  in  my  Roome,  my  Riding  Hood,  Muffe,  and  all  my  other 
Hoods,  both  Silke  and  Linnen,  and  a  Painted  Boxe  with  Lock  and  Key.  Vnto  William  Bolton, 
my  grandchild,  the  Trendle  Bed,  &c.,  wch  I  formerly  lent  my  son  Wittm  his  father,  and  two 
Paire  of  my  narrowest  hemping  Sheets.  Vnto  my  grandchild  Thomas  Hervey  one  Velvett 
Grogerin  covered  back  chaire.  Vnto  Edmund  Bolton  my  sonne  the  two  Bucketts  hanging  vpon 
iron  Chains  vsed  and  belonging  to  the  Well.  I  give  vnto  Wiffm  Bolton  my  sonne  all  my 
ready  money  and  other  my  Goods  not  otherwise  bequeathed  wch  of  Right  doe  belong  vnto  mee. 
Which  sayd  William  my  sonne  I  doe  Ordaine  to  be  my  Sole  Executor.  Probatum  apud  Gippm 
decimo  quinti  die  mensis  Augusti  1687.  Arch.  Suff.  Liber  “  Prideaux,”  fol.  260b. 

Thomas  Bolton,  of  Woodbridge,  gentleman,  the  testator’s  husband,  in  a  brief  will,  dated 
18th  April  1663,  devised  his  lands  to  Thomas  Bolton  his  son,  and  the  rest  of  his  estate  to 
Mary  his  wife,  whom  he  appointed  his  executrix.  It  was  proved  27th  January  1666  by  Thomas 
Bolton,  the  son,  his  widow  having  renounced.  Arch.  Suff,  Original  Wills,  1666,  No.  181. 


BOLTON  OF  WOODBRIDGE. 


219 


® banary  flrom'tihtgs,  IBolton  r.  Carry,  1708. 

Samuel  Bolton  of  Woodbridge,  Surgeon,  and  Alice  bis  wife,  and  Mary  Cary  of  Ipswich, 
spinster,  shew  that  William  Cary  of  Halesworth,  co.  Suffolke,  gent.,  made  his  last  will  about 

the  first  day  of  May  1686  in  these  words.  “  I  give  unto  Thomas  Cary  my  nephew  all  my 

lands  which  I  had  upon  mortgage  from  Miles  Gardner,  lying  in  Bulchamp,  and  my  fields  in 
Blyford  and  the  messuage  and  tenement  wherein  I  do  now  inhabitt  in  Halesworth  and  the 
messuage  &  lands  which  I  purchased  of  one  Drane,  and  the  messuage  which  I  had  of  Thomas 
Cary  my  brother  of  Woodbridge,  Gent.,  and  the  messuage  which  I  had  of  W alter  l’rowd  in 
Halesworth,  and  my  lease  off  two  tenements  in  Great  Tower  Hill,  London;  he,  the  said  Thomas 
Cary  my  nephew,  paying  out  of  the  same  to  his  fower  sisters  £800 : — (that  is  to  say)  to 
Katherine  his  sister  and  her  child  £200 ;  and  to  his  sister  Sarah  £200  and  to  each  of  his 
other  two  sisters  Alice  Cary  and  Mary  Cary  the  sum  of  £200  a  peice  at  their  several  ages  of 
one  and  twenty  yeares,  and  to  Sr  Henry  Beddingfeild,  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  the  Common  Pleas, 
twenty  guineas.  And  my  will  and  mind  is  that  the  residue  of  my  money  due  upon  mortgages, 
and  other  securities  taken  in  my  owne  brother  Thomas  or  nephew  Thomas  name,  shall  be  laid 
out  upon  purchases  of  land  in  trust  to  the  use  of  Thomas  Cary  my  brother  for  his  life,  and 

after  his  decease  remain  to  my  nephew  Thomas  Cary,  whom  I  make  my  Executors.”  Within  a 

few  years  after  the  death  of  the  said  William  Cary,  Thomas  Cary  the  elder,  his  brother, 
departed  this  life  intestate,  leaving  Thomas  Cary  the  younger,  his  eldest  sonn  and  heir,  and 
soon  after  Katherine,  his  widdow,  tooke  out  letters  of  Administration  and  possessed  herself  of 
the  personall  estate  of  the  said  Thomas  Cary  the  elder.  The  said  Thomas  Cary  the  younger 
received  to  his  owne  use  the  issues  of  the  lands  of  William  Cary  and  was  duly  admitted  to 
the  copyholds  and  paid  the  legacy  of  twenty  guineas  to  Dame  .  .  .  Beddingfield,  the  executrix 
of  Sr  Henry  Beddingfield.  Katherine,  one  of  the  four  sisters  of  the  said  Thomas  Cary,  was 
then  married  to  one  Thomas  Summerlay  of  London,  Scrivener,  long  since  dead,  and  her  child 
named  in  the  will  was  her  youngest  daughter  Mary,  since  mai'ried  to  Thomas  Fuller  of 
Hintlesham,  and  is  now  living.  Sara,  one  other  of  the  said  four  sisters,  is  married  to  Thomas 
Wade  of  Woodbridge  ;  your  Oratrices,  Alice,  now  the  wife  of  Samuell  Bolton,  and  Mary  Cary 
being  two  other  of  the  said  sisters  of  Thomas  Cary  the  younger  and  devisees  in  the  said  will. 
The  said  Alice  attained  her  age  of  one  and  twenty  years  about  the  26th  of  October  1691, 
being  since  married  to  your  Orator  Samuell  Bolton.  And  Mary  Cary  attained  her  said  age  in 
July  1701.  But  Thomas  Cary  junior  confederating  with  Thomas  Miller  and  Mary  his  wife, 
Thomas  Wade  and  Sarah  his  wife,  William  Perkins  of  Blyford,  co.  Suffolke,  Hone  Setter,  and 
others  doth  refuse  to  pay  the  respective  legacies. 

Answers  of  Thomas  Cary,  gent.,  &  others.  Complicated  statements. 

Chan.  Proc.,  Mitford  D.C.V.  31. 

In  the  Hawes  MS.,  written  circa  1712,  and  described  by  Page  in  his  History  of  Suffolk, 
pp.  83,  133,  are  notices  of  the  “Gentry  sometime  residing  in  Woodbridge,”  and  coloured 
drawings  of  their  Arms.  It  mentions  “  Thomas  Bolton,  Esqr,  who  dwelt  in  this  Parish  in  the 
reign  of  K.  Ja8  I  and  was  buried  there  1616.  From  him,”  it  adds,  “  Mr  Samuel  Bolton,  now 
living  in  Wroodbridge,  is  descended.”  Mr.  Bobert  Hawes,  the  compiler,  presented  an  autograph 
copy  of  this  manuscript  to  the  Master  and  Fellows  of  Pembroke  Hall,  Cambridge. 

2  D2 


220 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Ilrtiujm,  Bolton  of  2CIlooii6rt&jjf,  ?l?arl.  JHJsh 

1,177. 

Tho  :  Bolton  of  Woodbridg  =j=Elizab  :  Da  :  of  John  Cwrteis 
in  Com  :  Sujf.  j  of  Woodbridg. 

i - 1 - 1  1 

2.  John.  3.  Edward.  Tho  :  Bolton  of  Woodbridg ==.  ..  Da  :  of  ..  .  Wiseman  of 

sonne  8)'  hey  :  Canffeild  in  Com  :  Essex. 


Arms: — Quarterly;  1  and  4,  Sable,  a  falcon  close  Argent,  beaked  and  membered  Or;  2  and  3,  Gules,  three 
wolves’  heads  erased  Or.  A  trefoil  slipped  in  the  centre. 

Crest: — A  falcon  close  Argent,  charged  on  the  breast  with  a  trefoil  slipped  Yert,  beaked  and  membered  Or. 

P.  IF.  Camden  Clarencieux,  26  Aug.  1615. 


Cvrcqpt,  OTtsrman  jprtugnr,  I)arl.  1,137. 

John  Wiseman  of  Canfield.=fMargery  da.  to  Sr  William  Waldegrave  Kt. 


Thomas  Wiseman  of  Canfield,  3  sonne. =j= Alice  da.  Q"  h.  to  Robert  Mylles  of  Sutton  in  Suffolk. 


John  Wiseman  eldest  sonne,  ob.  s.p. 


T 

4.  Thomas. 


~r 

5.  Kenellum. 


6.  Edmund. 


Susanna.  Parnell. 


l - 

Robert  Wiseman  of  Castle2^ Anne  da.  to  Sr 
Canfield  Hall  in  Essex,  2  Gamaliel  Ca¬ 
son  8f  heire.  pell  Kt. 


3.  William  [created=j=[ Elizabeth,  da.  of  Henry  Capel, 
a  Baronet  1628;  d.  d.  1660 ;  bur.  in  Great  Canfield 
1643.  Morant.~\  Church.  Morant. ] 


- 1 

Mary  ux  Tho.  Boul¬ 
ton  of  Woodbridge 
in  Suffolk. 


John  Wiseman  son  8f  heire. 


I _ 

[Sir  ffm.  Wiseman,  2d  Bart. 


Morant.  ] 


Insrriptton  in  Mooftbtxitge  (Eljurrij. 

“  In  the  N.  Isle  ....  on  a  brass  plate,  over  which  was  another  square  now  gone.” 
Davy’s  note.  Add.  MS.  19,097,  fo.  854.  b.  The  missing  square  was  doubtless  inscribed  with  the 
arms  of  the  deceased. 

Here  lieth  buried  under  this  stone,  expec- 
tinge  a  joyful  resurrection,  the  Bodye  of 
Thomas  Bolton  of  Woodbridge  in  ye  County 
of  Suff.  Esquire,-  who  departed  this  naturall 
lyfe  the  23d  day  of  March  in  the  yeare  of 
our  Lord  God,  1616,  setatis  sure  48. 


BOLTON  OF  WOODBRIDGE. 


221 


33olton  of  OTootiforitip. 

Thomas  Bolton,  of  Boyton,  co.  Suffolk,  made  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  26  Jan.  1586,=j=Anne,  his  wife, 
proved  17  July  1587,  devising  lands  in  Hollesley  to  William  his  son.  I  living  1586. 


William  Bolton,  of  Hol¬ 
lesley,  co.  Suff.  Will,  21 
July,  43  Eliz.,  proved  9 
Dec.  1601.  Had  issue  by 
Anne,  his  wife. 


Edward  Bolton, 
under  age  43 
Eliz. ;  devisee  of 
his  brother, Wm. 
Bolton. 


Thomas  Bolton,  of  Woodbridge,  Esq.,  born=p Alice,  dau.  of  John  Cur- 


1568.  Will,  P.C.C.  31  Weldon,  26  Aug.  1616; 
died  23  March  following,  aged  48.  M.I.  in 
Woodbridge  Church.  Inq.  p.m.  15  Jas. 
Had  grant  of  Arms  1615. 


Josias  Bolton,  of  Alder- 
ton,  co.  Suff.,  gent.,  liv¬ 
ing  with  Sarah  Sheene, 
his  sister,  1653. 


Alice,  bapt.  1595 ; 
mar.  at  Wood- 
bridge,  1618,  to 
Francis  Barker. 


Edward,  3d  son 
(Harl.  MS.  1177), k 
Daniel,  named  in 
their  father’s  Will. 


Martha,  1616,  pro¬ 
bably  wife  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Filby,  of  Tud- 
denham,  1653. 


tis,  of  Woodbridge. 
Harl.  MS.  1177,  fol.  78  ; 
mar.  at  Woodbridge,  3 
April  1592. 


l  I 

Anne  & 
Johan, 
living 
43Eliz. 


Margerie, 
wife  of  .  .  . 
Butterham,. 
living  43 
Elizth. 


Susan,  1616,  wife 
of  John  Carleton 
in  1637,  and  had 
issue. 


Sarah,  youngest  dau.,  m. 
1st  .  .  .  Armiger,  and  2d 
Nichs.  Sheene,  of  Alder- 
ton,  gent.  Her  Will  1653. 


Mary,  mar.  William  Carey,  of  Woodbridge, 
gent. ;  she  made  Will,  P.C.C.  528  Ruthen, 
1656.  Wm.  Carey,  her  son,  entered  ped.  in 
Suff.  Yisitn.  1664.  Her  grauddau.,  Alice 
Carey,  mar.  her  2d  cousin,  Samuel  Bolton. 


Thomas  Bolton,  of  Woodbridge, - 
gent.,  son  and  heir  ;  aged  21,  15 
Jas.  Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  18  April 
1663  ;  probate  27  Jan.  1666  ;  was 
twin  with  Mary  Carey  his  sister. 


Mary,  sister  of  Sir  William 
Wiseman,  of  Canfield,  co. 
Essex,  Bart.  Harl.  MS.  1137 . 
She  made  Will,  Arch.  Suff. ,8 
Sept.  1683,  pr.  15  Aug.  1687. 


John  Bolton,  2d  son,  Harl. MS. 
1177 ;  devisee  of  his  sister 
Sheene,  who  names  Allan, 
John,  and  Thomas,  his  sons, 
and  Jane,  his  dau.,  then  living. 


Wiseman  Bolton,  of 
Ipswich,  gent.  Will, 
P.C.C.  494  Wootton, 
4  June ;  proved  15 
15  June  1558 ;  ob.  s.p. 


William  Bolton,  of 
Ipswich,  1653 ;  heir 
to  Wiseman  Bolton, 
his  brother;  married 
and  had  issue. 


Thomas  Bolton,  bapt. 
at  Woodbridge  1621 ; 
living  there  1653  ; 
named  in  his  mother’s 
Will,  1683. 


Edmund  Bolton, =pAnne, 


named  in  his  mo¬ 
ther’s  Will  1683 ; 
buried  at  Wood- 
bridge,  1705. 


his 

wife. 


- 1 — i - 

Mary  and  Eliza¬ 
beth,  bapt.  1628 
and  1629  at 
Woodbridge. 


.  .  .  mar.  to  .  .  . 
Harvey  ;  had  dau. 
Mary  Harvey,  of 
Sibton,  1653,  and 
son,  Thos.  Harvey. 


William  Bolton,  de¬ 
visee  of  his  grand¬ 
mother,  Mary  Bolton, 
in  1683. 


Mary,  2d  wife,= 
named,  1726, in 
her  husband’s 
Will. 


:Samuel  Bolton,  of  Woodbridge,  Surgeon, =j=  Alice,  dau.  of  Thomas  Carey,  of  Wood- 


1707  ;  bapt.  there  1668 ;  plaintiff  in  Bolton 
c.  Carey,  Mitford,  D.C.V.  31,  and  Bolton 
c.  Hurrion,  Mitford,  DXC.  111.  Will, 
Aorh.  Suff.,  18  April,  prob.  20  May  1726. 


bridge,  gent.,  grand-dau.  of  William 
Carey  and  Mary  Bolton;  niece  and 
devisee  of  William  Carey,  of  Hales- 
worth,  1686  ;  bur.  at  Woodbridge,  1711. 


~ — ~i 
Edmund 
Bolton,  bap. 
at  Wood- 
bridge  1674. 


SamuelBolton,  Edmundand  Rev.  Thomas  Bolton,  M. A.,  Rector  of  Hollesley,  bapt.=pMartha,  da. 


under  age  in  John,  under  at  Woodbridge  1697;  ob.  1772.  The  arms  granted 
1726.  age  in  1726.  1803  were  limited  to  his  descendants. 


of  John 
Bird. 


Elizabeth,  Anne 
wife  of  ...  .  Bolton. 
Geater  1726. 


Margaret  & 
Jane,  under 
age  in  1726. 


- 1 - — - -i 

MarthaBolton,  Mary 
3  times  mar-  Bolton, 
ried,  but  died  bapt. 
s.p.  1731. 


:Susanna,  dau.  of  Rev.  Ed¬ 
mund  Nelson,  and  sister 
of  Horatio,  Lord  Nelson ; 
mar.  1780  ;  died  1813. 

K 


Samuel  Bolton,  of=pAnne,  dau.  of  Edw. 


Coddenham,  Suff.; 
bapt.  there  1733 ; 
ob.  1776. 


Minster,  of  Yaxley, 
ob.  1784.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff. 


Mary  Young,  1st  wife, =Rev.  Thomas  Bolton,  Rec tor = Elizabeth, 
ob.  1777  ;  bur.  at  St.  of  Nedging;  born  at  Codden-  dau.  of  .  .  .  ., 
Matthew’s,  Ipswich ;  ham,  1736  ;  mar.  a  3d  wife,  2d  wife,  by 
sine  prole.  by  whom  issue.  whom  issue. 


Samuel  Bolton, =j=Mary,  dau.  of  Philip 


of  Akenham,  co. 

Suff. ;  born  at 
Coddenham  in 
1750 ;  m.  1778.  /K 

Pedigree 


Dykes,  of  Ipswich ; 
mar.  at  St.  Matthew’s 
Church. 


A. 


Rev.  William  Bolton,  = 
Trin.  Coll.,  Cambr. ; 
M.A.,  1780 ;  Rector 
of  Hollesley,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk  ;  ob.  1840,  set.  86. 


Mary,  dau.  of  Wm.Wood- 
thorpe,  of  Oakley,  co. 
Essex ;  mar.  at  Ipswich, 
12  Dec.  1776;  bur.  21 
April  1840,  set.  82. 


Thomas  Bolton,  of- 
Wells,  co.  Norfolk, 
merch. ;  born  at  Cod¬ 
denham,  1752;  mar. 
1780  ;d.  1834,  aet.82./. 


Pedigree  B. 


Anne,  mar.  at  Burnham  Westgate, 
Chas.  M.  Bradshaw  Pierson,  Capt. 
W.  India  Regt.,  who  died  1800,  & 
had  dau.  Caroline  Bolton  Pierson. 


Rev.  Horatio  Bolton, 
Vicar  of  Docking  1829, 
and  Rector  of  Oby, 
Norff.  ;  ob.  s.p.  1873. 


Emily  Bolton, 
born  1780,  died 
1868,  set.  88. 


Sir  William  Bolton,  Knighted=j=Catherine,  dau.  of  Thomas 


1803,  Capt.  R.N.,  ob.  10  Dec. 
1830,  set.  53.  Arms  granted 
1803.  He  mar.  his  cousin. 


Bolton  and  Susanna  Nelson, 
his  wife ;  sister  of  the  2d  Earl 
Nelson. 


A  son,  Emma  Horatia  Bolton,  bom  1804 ;  mar.  Dr.  Mary  Anne  Bolton,  Ellen  Catherine  Bolton,  born  1817  ;  mar.,  12  Dec.  1844,  her 
who  died  Foley  (who  died  at  St.  Omer’s  in  France)  ;  born  1813,  died  Dec.  cousin,  Horatio  Girdlestone,  who  died  at  Lymington,, 
young.  bur.  at  Burnham  Westgate  1869.  1864,  aged  51.  Hants,  1894.  She  died  1891,  leaving  issue. 


222 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Bolton  of  SElootibntigr.  ^ftngrrr  <3. 


Samuel  Bolton,  of  Akenham,  co.  Suffolk,  eldest=pMary,  dau.  of  Philip  Dykes, 
brother  of  Thomas  Bolton,  of  Wells,  born  1750 ;  of  Ipswich;  ob.  3  April 
died  1805,  aged  54 ;  bur.  at  Akenham.  1835,  aged  80. 


I - 

Samuel  Bolton, 
R.  A.,  eldest  son, 
killed  at  Water¬ 
loo  1815. 


T 

2.  ThomasBolton,  mar.  1841, 
Lucy,  dau.  of  John  Bates,  of 
Marlesford,  co.  Suff.,  gent. 


- ! - - - - - 

3.  Rev.  Edward  Dykes  Bol¬ 
ton,  Rector  of  Hollesley  and 
Great  Wratting,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk. 


4.  Rev.  John  M.  Bol¬ 
ton  ;  ob.  at  Whitton, 
co.  Suffolk,  1828, 
aged  34. 


5.  Philip  Bolton, 
died  in  India, 
1814,  aged  20. 


- 1 

Mary  Anne  Bol¬ 
ton,  eldest  dau., 
died  1806. 


i - “i - — - 1 - 1 — i - - — i 

6.  Charles  Bolton,  born  1798, =j= Anne  Elizabeth,  dau.  2.  Elizabeth  Bolton,  mar.  Rev.  3.  Harriet  Bolton,  unm.  4.  Frances  Bolton,  mar.  Dec. 
Commander  R.N. ;  mar.  1835 ;  of  Thomas  Howard,  J.  Hitch,  Rector  of  Westerfield,  —  1836  JamesYoung,  of  Wells, 

died  1879,  aged  80.  of  London,  died  1895.  Suffolk,  ob.  1823,  aged  42.  5.  Jane  Bolton,  born  co.  Norfolk,  surgeon. 

1796. 

I - - - — - 1 - - - - - - - i - 1 

Rev.  Charles  Nelson  Bolton,  New  Coll.  Oxon,  born  Anne  Elizabeth  Bolton,  elder  dau.,  mar.  Rev.  Mary  Henrietta  Bolton,  younger  dau., 
1844 ;  Vicar  of  St.  Mary,  Lichfield,  and  Prebendary  T.  H.  Howard,  then  Vicar  of  St.  Jude’s,  mar.  Rev.  G.  F.  Head,  Vicar  of  Clifton, 
of  Lichfield  Cathedral  1895  ;  living  1904.  Plymouth,  and  after  Vicar  of  Uffculme,  near  Bristol,  1904. 

Devon.  She  died  1894. 


Bolton  of  OTootJimtigr.  ^rtiujrtr  B. 


Thomas  Bolton,  of  Wells,  Norfolk;  born  at  Coddenham,: 
co.  Suffolk,  1752 ;  mar.  at  Burnham  Thorpe,  3  Aug.  1780 ; 
bur.  there  Oct.  1734. 


:Susannah,  dau.  of  the  Rev.  Edmund  Nelson,  Rector  of 
Burnham  Thorpe,  and  sister  of  Horatio,  Viscount  Nelson, 
and  of  William,  1st  Earl  Nelson.  She  d.  16  July  1813. 


Thomas  Bolton,  2d  Earl  Nel-; 
son,  Viscount  Merton  and 
Baron  Nelson  of  the  Nile,  born 
1786;  assumed  surname  and 
arms  of  Nelson  ;  mar.  1821 ; 
died  1  Nov.  1835. 


Frances  Catherine,  mar.  25 
Jan.  1855  Robert  John 
Pettiward,  of  Great  Fin- 
borough,  Suffolk.  She  died 
14  April  1877. 


: Frances  Elizabeth, 
dau.  and  heir  of 
JohnMaurice  Eyre 
of  Landford  and 
Brickworth,  Wilts. 
She  died  1878. 


George  Bolton, 
born  10  Nov. 
1787  ;  died  at 
sea  1799,  s.p. 


JemimaSusannah, 
twin  with  Cath¬ 
erine,  died  1864. 

Anne,  died  unmar. 
3  Oct.  1830. 


Catherine,  born  1781 ; 
mar.  her  cousin  1803, 
SirWilliam  Bolton, Kt., 
Capt.  R.N.  (who  died 
1830).  She  died  22 
April  1857. 


Elizabeth  Anne,  born 
1789 ;  mar.  1811,  Rev. 
Henry  Girdlertone,  Rec¬ 
tor  of  Colton  St.  An¬ 
drew,  Norff.,  1815,  and 
of  Landford,  Wilts,  1833. 


i — 


Susannah,  mar.  1865  Rev.  Alex-  4.  Rev.  Edward  5.  Henry 
ander  Colvin  Blunt,  Canon  of  Foyle  Nelson,  Nelson, 
Winchester  and  Rector  of  M.A.,  born  b.  1835; 
Burghclere,  Hants.  She  died  1833;  died  Sep.  d.  1863, 
s.p.  in  1900.  1859.  unm. 


Ellen  Catherine  Bol-=j=H  or  a  ti  o  Girdle- 


ton,  youngest  dau., 
born  1817 ;  mar.  12 
Dec.  1844 ;  d.  at  Lym- 
ington,  13  Feb.  1891. 


stone,  born  12  Dec. 
1819 ;  died  at  Lym- 
ington,  Hamp¬ 
shire,  13  July  1891. 


Horatio  N elson,3d  Earl=f=Lady  Mary  Agar,  only 


Nelson,  of  Trafalgar 
House,  Wilts,  and  Mer¬ 
ton,  co.  Surrey  ;  born  7 
Aug.  1823 ;  mar.  28 
July  1845. 


dau.  of  Welbore,  2d 
Earl  of  Normanton, 
by  Diana,  dau.  of 
George,  11th  Earl  of 
Pembroke. 


2.  Rev.  John  Horatio 
Nelson,  Rector  of  Shaw 
cum  Donnington,  Berks, 
born  1825;  mar.  Susan, 
dau.of  LordCharlesSpen- 
cer-Churchill,  &  has  issue. 


3.  Maurice  Horatio 
Nelson,  Rear-Admiral 
(ret.) ;  born  1832  ;  mar. 
Emily,  dau.  of  Sir 
Charles  Burrard,  Bart., 
and  has  issue. 


tt- 


Thomas  Girdle- 
stone. 


- TT1 

Frances  Girdle- 
stone. 


Henry  Clapcott  Fanella  Horatia. 
Girdlestone.  — 

Lucy  Gertrude. 


I - - - 1 - 1 - 1 — i - 1 - 1 - 

Herbert  Horatio  Nelson,  2.  Charles  Horatio  3.ThomasHora-  4.  Edward  Agar  Alice 

Viscount  Trafalgar,  born  Nelson,  born  1856  ;  tio  Nelson.  Horatio  Nelson,  Mary 

1854;  mar.  1879,  Eliza  mar.  1857, Ellen, da.  —  bom  1860;  mar.  Diana. 

Blanch,  dau.  of  Frederick  of  G.W.Pretty  (who  Albert  Horatio  1889,  Geraldine, 

Gonnerman  Dalgetty,  of  died  1900), and  died  Nelson,  b.  1862;  dau.of  HenryH. 

Lockerly  Hall,  Hants.  s.p.  1900.  died  1868.  Cave, &has  issue. 


— i - i — i 

Constance  Jane,  Edith,  mar.  1870  Chas. 
mar.  1870,  Hon.  and  Clement  Tudway. 

Rev.  Bertrand  Pley- 

dell  Bouverie,  3d  Mary  Catherine,  mar 
son  of  Jacob,  4th  Richard  Shaw,  of- 
Earl  of  Radnor.  Audlem. 


Caro> 


of  Jaalestoortl). 


Mill  of  Milliam  (£an>y,  1686. 

The  first  day  of  May,  1686,  I  William  Cary  of  Halesworth  in  the  County  of  Sufi'., 
gent.,  doe  make  this  my  last  will  and  Testament.  I  give  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  Allmighty 
God,  and  my  body  to  be  decently  interred  in  the  Church  of  Halesworth  1  bequeath  unto 
Thomas  Cary  my  nephew  all  my  lands  and  tenements  in  Bulcampe  ;  and  my  lands  in  Blyford, 
which  I  hold  by  the  conditional  surrender  of  Philip  Partrich,  late  deceased ;  and  all  the  messuage 
and  tenement  wherein  I  now  inhabit  in  Halesworth ;  and  that  messuage  which  I  late  purchased 
of  one  Drane,  holden  of  severall  mannors ;  and  that  messuage  and  lands  which  1  had  of  the 
surrender  of  Thomas  Cary  my  brother  in  Woodbridge;  and  the  messuage  which  I  hold  of  the 
surrender  of  Walter  Proud  in  Halesworth ;  and  my  lease  and  terme  of  yeares  to  come  of  my 
two  tenements  scituate  on  great  Tower  Hill,  London,  to  hold  to  the  said  Thomas  Cary,  my 

nephew,  and  his  heires  for  ever,  he  paying  out  of  the  same  to  his  foure  sisters  eight  hundred 
pounds,  in  this  manner  (that  is  to  say),  to  Katherine  his  sister,  £200,  which  shall  be  secured 
for  her  maintenance  dureing  her  life,  and  after  the  principall  for  her  child  now  with  her ;  my 
said  nephew  paying  unto  his  sister  Sarah  £200,  within  one  year  after  my  decease,  and  to  each 

of  his  two  other  sisters,  Alice  Cary  and  Mary  Cary,  £200,  at  their  sevei-all  ages  of  one  and 

twenty  yeares ;  my  nephew  Thomas  Cary  alsoe  paying  out  of  aforesaid  demised  lands,  to  my 
most  honoured  friend,  Sr  Harry  Bedingfeild,  now  Lord  Cheife  Justice  of  the  common  Pleas, 
whome  I  name  supervisor  of  this  my  will,  twenty  guineas  towards  his  advise  and  trouble  in 
the  settlements  of  the  severall  lands  in  this  my  will  devised.  I  give  to  my  couzin,  Prancis 
Barker,  five  pounds  to  buy  him  mourning,  and  to  my  two  Godsonnes,  Mr  John  Wheeler  and 
Mr  William  Nuthall,  twenty  shillings  a  piece  to  buy  them  rings  with  a  memento  mori.  To 

the  poore  of  Woodbridge  five  pounds.  To  the  poore  of  Hallesworth  tenn  pounds ;  six  pounds 
to  be  distributed  the  day  after  my  Interment,  and  foure  pounds  on  St.  Thomas  Hay  next  after 
my  decease,  in  such  manner  as  for  many  years  in  my  life  time  I  distributed  my  charity. 
Executors  shall  purchase  a  small  parcell  of  ground  of  the  Lord’s  wast  in  Halesworth,  at  the 
south  entrance  into  the  Towne,  nere  where  the  Lord’s  pound  now  standeth,  and  thereupon  to 
erect  a  house  for  the  poore,  to  conteyne  twelve  roomes,  besides  garretts,  foure  yards  and  a  halfe 
square  and  eight  foot  high,  all  to  be  bricke  from  the  foundation  to  the  roofe,  two  to  be  tiled 
Gabell  endes  with  double  chimneys,  and  two  chimneys  of  equal  distances  betweene  each ;  foure 
fire  hearths  supplyes  twelve  roomes  ;  one  pump  or  well  in  the  middle  behind  the  house  comon 

to  all.  This  I  intend  for  ever  a  habitation  for  twelve  or  more  aged  poore  single  woemen  and 

single  men,  of  honest  and  good  reputation,  coming  to  divine  service.  And  where  of  such  that 
number  be  wanting,  I  will  it  to  be  supplied  by  poore  widdowes  without  children  at  the  discre¬ 
tion  of  the  Churchwardens  for  the  time  being.  Every  person  that  shall  inhabit  in  the  poore’s 

house  shall  ware  a  badge  of  silver  as  thicke  as  a  halfe  crowne  and  broader  then  a  Crowne, 


224 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


with  my  Coate  of  Arms  and  an  inscription  on  the  Rym,  viz* : — “  Wus  Cary  qui  doctrina  et 
disciplinam  Ecciie  Anglican:®  profess*  approbavit  obijt  Anno  64°  ^Etatis  et  A0  Dom  86.”  I 
make  and  nominate  Thomas  Cary  my  brother  and  Thomas  Cary  his  sonne  my  Executors,  and 
the  Honoble  Sr  Harry  Bedingfeild,  Ld.  Cheife  Justice,  Supervisor  of  this  my  will.  My  debts 
and  legacies  discharged,  all  the  residue  of  my  moneys  due  upon  mortgages,  &c.,  shall  be  laid 
out  upon  purchases  of  lands  by  Executors  and  Supervisor,  to  be  made  by  them  to  two  or  more 
persons  in  trust  Such  purchased  lands  to  be  to  the  use  of  Thomas  Cary  my  brother,  and  after 
his  decease  to  my  nephew  Thomas  Cary  for  his  naturall  life,  and  to  his  first,  second,  &c ,  sonn 
for  life,  and  to  theyre  heyres  males  for  ever.  And  for  want  of  such  issue  I  give  -  one  moyety 
of  the  said  lands  to  the  right  heyre  male  of  my  uncle  Thomas  Bolton  Esq3  deceased,  my  mother’s 
brother,  and  his  heyres  for  ever ;  and  the  other  moyety  thereof  to  my  right  heyres.  I  give  my 
lands  in  All  Saints  and  St.  Margaretts  of  South  Elmham,  to  Thomas  Cary  my  nephew  and  his 
heyres.  I  give  unto  my  nephew  Thomas  Cary,  all  my  plate,  linnen,  China,  and  all  household 
goods  In  Witnesse  whereof  I  have  to  this  my  will,  conteyned  in  foure  sheets  of  paper  written 
and  interlined  with  my  owne  hand,  subscribed  my  name  and  sett  my  seal  of  armes  the  day 
and  yeare  of  the  first  sheet  above  written. 

A  long  “Catalogue”  follows  of  “moneys  due  to  M1'  Cary,  1  May  1686.” 

Probatum  vicesimo  primo  die  Octobris,  1686,  Juramentis  Thom*  Cary  sen  et  Thom*  Cary 
jun,  Execut.  P.  C.C.  127  Lloyd. 


Prtjujm.  Carry  of  i^alrstoortl). 


Allen  Carey,  of  Halesworth,  in=j=Anne,  sister  and  devisee  of  Robert  Cutler, 


Suffolk  ;  devisee  of  Robert  Cut¬ 
ler,  of  London,  1607. 


of  London,  who  made  Will,  P.C.C.,  8 
Sept.  1607. 


William  Carey,  of  Woodbridge,  co.  Suffolk  ;  = 
already  married  when  Thomas  Bolton  made 
his  Will  in  1616 ;  dead  1656. 


Mary,  dau.  of  Thomas  Bolton,  of  Woodbridge, 
Esqr.  She  made  Will,  P.C.C.  528  Ruthen,  20 
Dec.  1656,  proved  9  Dec.  1657. 


William  Carey,  of  Halesworth, 
gent. ;  entered  pedigree  in  the 
Suffolk  Visitation,  1664.  Will, 
P.C.C.  127  Lloyd,  1  May  1686. 
Founded  almshouses  in  Hales¬ 
worth  and  died  s.p. 


Thomas  Carey,  of  Wood-=j=Katherine, 


bridge,  gent.,  only  surviving 
brother  and  next  heir  to 
William  Carey,  1687  ;  died 
intestate  circa  1694.  Bolton 
c.  Carey,  Mitford  605,  31. 


his  widow, 
administer¬ 
ed  his  es¬ 
tate. 


Allen  Carey,  of  Woodbridge,5 
gent.,  made  Will,  P.C.C.  264 
Ruthen,  26  Sept.  1656,  nam¬ 
ing  William  Cary,  his  bro¬ 
ther,  executor. 


Anne,  his  widow, 
named  in  theCourt 
Books  of  Thorpe 
Hall  Manor,  Has- 
keton. 


Thomas  Carey,  of  Hales-=pElizabeth,  dau.  of 


T 


worth,  gent., son  and  heir; 
chief  devisee  of  his  uncle 
William  Carey;  was  dead 
in  1709.  Thorpe  Hall, 
Hasketon  Court  Books. 


Henry  North,  of  Lax- 
field,  Esq.,  by  Eliza¬ 
beth,  his  wife,  dau. of 
Sir  Anthony  Wing¬ 
field,  Bart. 


Katherine,  eldest 
dau.,  wife  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Somerley, 
of  London,  scri¬ 
vener;  both  de¬ 
ceased  in  1708. 


Sarah,  2d  dau.,  wife 
of  Thomas  Wade,  of 
Woodbridge,  1708. 
Bolton  c.  Hurrion, 
Mitford  590,  111,  & 
Bolton  c.  Carey. 


Alice,  3d  dau., 
wife  of  Sam¬ 
uel  Bolton,  of 
Woodbridge, 
1708.  Bolton 
c.  Carey,  1708. 


Mary 

Carey, 

set.  21 

1691; 

unm. 

1707. 


Mary 

Carey, 

sole 

dau.  & 

heir 

1656. 


L. 


Thomas  Carey,  of  Hales — Priscilla,  his  wife,  named 
worth,  gent.,  son  and  heir  1701  in  Haleswwth  Court 
1709  ;  living  1731.  Bolls. 


Mary,  wife  of  Thomas  Miller, 
of  Hintlesham,  co.  Suffolk, 
1708.  Bolton  c.  Hurrion. 


Rev.  Thomas  Bolton,  M.A.,  Rector 
of  Hollesley,  co.  Suffolk,  bapt.  1697  ; 
died  1772.  See  Bolton. 


The  Arms  of  William  Carey,  of  Woodbridge  and  Halesworth,  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664,  were 
Argent,  on  a  bend  Sable,  three  roses  of  the  field.  A  crescent  on  a  martlet  for  difference.  Harl.  MS.  1085. 


Rrmpr  of  Settles. 


^mortal  Searings. 

The  Kempes  of  Beccles,  whose  pedigree  is  given  in  Camden’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  1612, 
were  a  branch  of  the  Kempes  of  Gissing,  in  Norfolk.  They  bore  ( Harl .  MS.  1552,  fol.  181) 
Quartet ly  of  8  : — 

1,  Kempe — Gules,  three  garbs  within  a  bordure  engrailed  Or. 

2,  — Azure,  a  lion  rampant  Argent. 

3,  — Sable,  three  bars  Argent ;  on  a  canton  Gules,  a  saltire  of  the  second, 

4,  Hastings — Or,  a  maunch  Gules. 

5,  Duke — Azure,  a  chevron  between  three  birds  close  Argent,  beaked  and  legged  Gules. 

6,  Butvillain — Argent,  three  crescents  Gules. 

7,  Bardolph  (Harl.  MS.  1561) — Azure,  three  cinquefoils  Or. 

8,  — Argent,  two  chevrons  Sable. 

Their  crest  was  an  eagle  with  wings  endorsed,  standing  on  a  garb  lying  fessways,  all  Or. 

In  the  Visitation  of  London,  1568  [Harl.  MS.  1^63),  the  arms  of  Margaret,  daughter  of 
Edmund  Kempe,  and  wife  of  William  Dane,  Alderman  of  that  city,  are  Quarterly  of  6 
1,  Kempe,  as  above;  2,  Butvillain,  as  above;  3,  Argent,  two  chevrons  Sable;  4,  Sable,  a  lion 
rampant  Argent ;  5,  Sable,  three  bars  Argent,  on  a  canton  Gules  a  saltire  of  the  second ;  6, 

Ermine,  a  bend  chequy  Sable  and  Argent. 

In  the  Norfolk  Visitation  of  1664  (Harl.  MS.  1085)  the  arms  of  Sir  Robert  Kempe,  of 
Gissing  (and  afterwards  of  Ubbeston,  co.  Suffolk),  Baronet,  who  married  the  daughter  and  heir 
of  Sone,  differ  somewhat  from  those  tricked  in  Harl.  MS.  1552.  The  escutcheon  is  Quarterly  of 
Nine.  The  fifth  or  central  quarter,  apparently  Gules,  a  bend  Argent,  is  almost  obliterated  by 
the  shield  of  pretence  for  Sone  (per  pale  Or  and  Azure,  on  a  fess  wavy  two  crescents  between 
four  quatrefoils,  all  counterchanged) ;  and  the  two  last  quarterings  have  changed  places. 

For  further  particulars  respecting  the  Kempes  of  Suffolk,  Norfolk  and  Essex,  the  reader 
is  referred  to  the  “  General  History  of  the  Kempe  Families  of  Great  Britain  and  her  Colonies,” 
by  Frederick  Hitchin-Kemp,  an  illustrated  quarto  volume,  the  outcome  of  years  of  research.  It 
treats  largely  of  earlier  generations,  whose  connection  with  the  family  tree  is  not  as  yet  quite 
proven  or  understood,  and  its  illustrations,  especially  the  portraits  of  the  Gissing  baronets  and 
their  kindred,  are  excellent. 

It  cannot  be  denied  that  the  descents  in  the  visitation  pedigree  of  the  Weston  and 
Gissing  Kempes,  as  given  in  Harl.  MS.  1552,  are,  prior  to  the  real  marriage  of  the  coheiress 
of  the  Butvileins,  traditionary  and  inexact.  It  was  in  1460  that  her  son,  Robert  Kempe,  of 
Weston,  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  gentleman,  inherited  his  Gissing  manors,  on  the  division  of 
the  estates  of  his  late  uncle,  Sir  Robert  Butvillein,  of  Northamptonshire.  See  Bridge’s  History 
of  that  County,  vol.  i,  p.  554,  and  the  Indenture,  38  H.  6,  given  on  p.  226. 

2  E 


226 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


son  of  Jtlait  Hump*,  of  Stolon.  Jfnu,  1518. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  facta  in  curia  dni  Regis  apud  Westm  in  octab  sancti  Hillar, 
anno  regni  Regis  Edwardi  filij  Regis  Edwardi  vndecimo,  coram  Wilimo  de  Bereford,  Gilbto  de 
Ronbiry,  Jobe  de  Benstede,  Jobe  Bacun  rt  Jobe  de  Mutford,  Justic  T  alijs  3ni  Regis  fidelibj. 
tunc  ibi  presentibj.  In?  Henricum  filiu  Robti  le  Clerk  de  Carleton  T  Auelinam  vxefn  eius  quer 
T  Galfridum  film  Alani  Kempe  de  Weston  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio.  quadraginta  acris  terre,  vna 
acra  marisci  J  quinq,  solidatis  redditus  in  Carleton,  Resshem’e,  Mutford,  Barneby  ‘I  Honbergh.  Vnde 
plitm  conuencionis  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eodem  curia.  Scilt  qd  pdcus  Henricus  recogii  f?dca  ten  esse 
Jus  ipius  Galfridi,  vt  ilia  que  idem  Galfridus  het  de  dono  fidci  Henrici.  Et  p  hac  recognicione, 
fine  T  concordia  idem  Galfridus  concessit  pdcto  Henrico  T  Aueline  jidca  ten  cum  ptin,  etc.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  11  Edw.  II,  No.  1. 

Nine  years  later,  namely  in  1327,  there  were  living  in  Weston  and  Ellough,  adjacent 
Suffolk  villages,  Geoffrey,  William,  and  Alexander  Kempe,  and  the  surname  is  occasionally  met 
with  in  other  parts  of  the  county.  Lay  Subsidy,  Suffolk,  1  Edw.  Ill  A|A. 

It  is,  doubtless,  this  Alan  Kempe,  of  Weston,  who  heads  the  Kempe  pedigree  in  Harl. 
MS.  1552,  which  will  be  found  a  few  pages  later  on. 


Hotel  itettfjf,  of  Heston.  Indenture,  1460. 

This  indenture  made  betwene  Thomas  Herteshorn  of  Gissing  in  ye  Countee  of  Norff, 
Squier,  and  Elizabeth  his  Wyfe,  one  of  ye  Cosyns  and  heirs  of  William  Butuillein,  Squier,  yat 
dede  is,  to  witte  dough?  of  Elizabeth,  one  of  ye  susters  of  Sir  Robt  Butuillein,  Knyght,  fader 
of  the  seid  William,  on  ye  one  parte,  and  Robt  Kempe  of  Weston  in  the  Countee  of  Suff, 
Gentilman,  son  and  heir  of  Alice  Kempe,  another  of  ye  Cosyns  and  heirs  of  the  forseyd  William, 
that  is  to  witte  dough?  of  Julian,  another  of  the  systyrs  of  the  seid  Sir  Robt,  fader  of  the 
seid  William,  on  ye  othr  part,  of  and  on  ye  pticion  of  all  the  Maners  (etc.)  in  the  Comites  of 
Northampton,  Bedford  and  Norff,  in  ye  whiche  any  psones  were  or  ben  enfeffed  with  to  the 
vse  of  the  seid  William  (Butvillein)  or  of  his  heirs  :  Witnesseth  yat  it  is  agreed  that  the  seid 
Thomas  and  Elizabeth  his  wyfe  shuld  haue  for  ye  pgartie  of  ye  same  Elizabeth,  the  man9  and 
avoueson  of  the  chirche  of  Cottesbroke  in  ye  Countie  of  Northampton  and  the  londes  in  Henwyk 
and  Thorndyssh  in  the  Countee  of  Bedford;  Also  it  is  agreed  y*  ye  seid  Robt  Kempe  shall 
haue  for  his  ppartie  the  forseid  Man9  of  Flordon  with  ye  advoweson  of  ye  cliirches  of  Flordon 
and  Gyssyng  in  ye  seid  Countee  of  Norff;  and  also  the  man’s  clepyd  Hastynges  and  Dallynges 
in  Gissyng  to  gider  wl  all  other  londes  (etc.)  in  Gissyng  or  elswhere  in  ye  seid  Counte  of 
Norff,  to  the  forseid  Robt.  Kempe  and  to  ye  heires  of  his  body  ;  And  for  defaute  of 
issue  of  y2  same  Robt.  comyng,  ye  remaindre  y9of  to  yB  heires  of  ye  body  of  ye  forseid 
Alice.  And  yk  ye  forseid  Thomas  and  Elizabeth  (Herteshorn)  shull  require  all  yose  psones  y* 
stond  enfeffed  in  ye  seid  Maner  of  Flordon  and  in  ye  seid  Maners  cleped  Hastinges  and 
Dallynges  in  Gyssing  and  in  ye  seid  oy9  londes,  tentes  and  suices  in  Gissyng  or  elswhere 
wtinne  ye  seid  Countee  of  Norff,  to  make  lawfull  estate  y’of  to  ye  seid  Robt  Kempe  and  to 
the  heires  of  his  body  comyng  accordyng  to  ye  agreement  and  accorde  y9of  aboue  rehercyd.  In 


KEMPE  OF  BECCLES. 


227 


witnesse  wherof  y®  parties  aforeseid  to  yise  indentures  chaungeably  hau  set  yeir  sealesj  the 
xxviijth  day  of  ye  moneth  of  Juyn  the  yere  of  the  reigne  of  Kyng  Henr  y®  sixt  aft  ye 
conquest  xxxviijth  (1460). 

Et  memorand  qd  fidcus  Thomas  Herthishorn  venit  in  Cancellar  Regis  apud  Westm  quarto 
die  Julij  anno  j?senti  (1465)  et  recognouit  indenturam  j3dcam  et  omia  contenta  in  eadem  in 
in  forma  pdca.  Close  Roll,  6  Edw.  IV,  memb  34  dorso. 


Will  of  Eobrt  !Ump£,  15^6, 

Roberte  Kempe  of  Gissynge  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke  [sic]  Esquier.  To  be  buryed  in 
the  church  by  my  wief.  Masses  to  be  said  for  the  helthe  of  my  sowle.  To  my  sonne 
Bartilmewe’s  syx  children,  v  sonnes  T  oon  doughter.  To  Robert  Bacon  sonne  of  Richard  Bacon, 
my  sonne  in  law  1  to  his  doughter.  To  my  doughter  Jernyngham’s  iiii  children  :  my  sonne 
Jernegan  to  make  sure  of  hir  Joyntr.  Bartilmewe  Kempe  my  sonne  to  be  an  executor.  This 
viijth  Septemb1'  18  H.  8.  My  londes  in  Nor  IF.  L  Suff.  To  my  sonne  Bartilmewe  Kempe  my 
Manors  of  Dallyngs  T  Hastyngs  in  Gissynge  in  Norfolke  T  other  londes  &  tehtes  there  late  my 
father’s  all  my  purchased  landes  there.  Lands  late  Richarde  Kemp’s  of  Gissynge.  Failing 
yssue  of  the  seid  Bartilmewe  said  lands  to  (remain)  to  Lewes  Kempe  my  second  sonne  (and  to 
pass  on)  to  my  right  heires.  Vnto  the  saide  Bartilmewe  my  sonne  my  Manor  of  ...  .  and 
landes  in  Weston  in  Suffolk.  The  landes  in  Hapton  to  the  vse  made  on  his  maryage.  My 
Manor  of  Flordon  in  Norfolke  which  my  doughter  Elizabethe  nowe  hathe.  An  annuity  of  xii11 
a  yere  to  Lewes  my  seconde  sonne.  Sir  John  Shelton,  Knyght  and  Richard  Bacon  to  be 
supervisors.  Probatum  xxii  Januarii,  1526. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norwic,  Liber  Brigges,  fol.  224. 

In  his  Inquisition  post  mortem,  taken  20th  September,  19th  Henry  VIII,  it  is  stated 
that  Robert  Kempe  died  seized  of  the  Manors  of  Butvelyns,  Dallynges  and  Hastyngs  in  Gissing, 
and  lands  in  Florden  and  Brakon  in  the  county  of  Norfolk.  Bartholomew  Kempe,  Esqr.,  his 
son  and  heir,  was  of  the  age  of  thirty  years  and  upwards.  The  testator  was  already  married 
to  Anne  Clifford,  his  second  wife,  in  1490  (4th  Henry  VII)  when  a  settlement  was  made  upon 
her.  Another  Inquisition  had  been  taken  a  few  days  earlier  (16th  September)  respecting  his 
Suffolk  lands,  in  Weston,  Ellough,  Worlingham,  and  Reddisham.  He  had  died  on  the  5th  of 
December  1526. 


Will  of  Rirljarfr  luntp£,  1599. 

Richard  Kempe  of  Gissing  co.  Norff :  Esqr  12  March,  1599.  To  be  buried  in  the  Gissing 
Chappell  with  the  rest  of  my  Ancestors.  To  my  sister  Margarett  Cotton,  wife  of  Daniell 
Cotton  iij11  vis  viijd  yerely  for  life.  Wife  and  sonne  shall  keepe  together  and  mayntaine 
hospitality  in  Gissing.  To  my  daughter  Kempe  :  my  brother  John  Kempe :  brother  Thomas. 
Kempe :  sister  Buxton :  brother  Kempe  of  Antingham :  brother  Drury  of  Besthorpe,  nephew  and 
neece  Harborne ;  neece  Dorothy  Norton  :  cosen  Robert  Kempe  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  Vnto  my 
godson  John  Buxton  at  his  goeng  to  Cambridge.  Vnto  Ann  Lany  my  goddaughter  and  cosen 
at  her  daye  of  marriage.  To  Thomas  Kempe  a  scholler  at  Cambridge.  Nephew  Edward  Rowse.. 

2  E2 


228 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Vnto  Robert  Kemp  and  John  Kemp,  son  lies  of  my  sonne,  at  their  goeng  to  Grayes  Inne : 
My  nephew  Robert  Kemp,  sonne  of  my  brother  Robert  Kempe.  My  louing  wife  Alies  Kemp 
and  Robert  Kemp  my  sonne  to  be  Executors.  The  halfe  of  my  goodes  to  my  wife  and  the 
halfe  to  my  sonne.  Probatum  7  May  1600.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  Wills  1600,  fol.  44. 

In  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1612  the  testator  is  said  to  have  been  of  Washbrook  in 
that  county.  It  was  Thomas,  his  third  son,  who  settled  at  Beccles  and  succeeded  to  his  Suffolk 
estates  in  Weston  and  Ellough.  For  the  brother  Anthony  Drury,  of  Besthorpe,  and  niece 
Elizabeth  Harborne,  see  their  pedigree  vol.  i,  p.  355. 


Jlobcrt  of  Sira  S>t.  (Sdtmmta,  1595. 

In  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1612,  Robert,  the  fourth  son  of  Robert  Kempe,  of  Gissing,  is 
stated  to  have  married  Ann,  daughter  of  William  Stanton,  of  Westmoreland  ('!  Weston).  His  mother 
was  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Edmund  Grey.  We  first  hear  of  him  in  1593,  in  the  will  of  his 
great  aunt,  Elizabeth  Spelman  (Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  book  91,  fol.  294),  whose  niece  married  Edmund 
Grey,  of  Merton.  She  bequeaths  to  her  “cousin”  (or  nephew)  Robert  Kempe,  of  Bury  St. 
Edmunds,  the  “pycture  in  my  plor  of  the  iudgement  of  Solomon,”  and  makes  him  one  of  her 
executors.  Later  on,  in  his  will  in  1599,  Richard  Kempe,  of  Gissing,  his  eldest  brother,  speaks 
of  a  “  cousin,”  Robert  Kempe,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  and  a  nephew  Robert  Kempe,  son  of  his 
brother  Robert,  who  are,  apparently  identical.  In  1610  John  Kempe,  of  Antingham,  another 
brother,  bequeaths  money  to  his  nephew  Thomas  Kempe,  son  of  Robert  his  brother.  Very  little 
is  known  of  this  brother  Robert  Kempe,  who  made  no  will.  In  1588  and  1595  the  Adminis¬ 
tration  Books  in  the  Bury  Probate  Registry  describe  him  as  a  notary  public.  As  “  Robert 
Kempe  of  Bury,  gentleman,”  he  was  assessed  at  three  pounds  in  the  Suffolk  Subsidy  of  1610, 
42nd  Elizabeth,  i|~|.  His  name  does  not  occur  in  the  parish  registers  at  Bury.  What  became 
of  him,  his  wife,  and  his  sons,  Robert  and  Thomas,  or  what  other  issue,  if  any,  he  had,  has 
never,  as  yet,  been  ascertained.  It  is  not  improbable  that  Elizabeth  Kempe,  who  married  Oliver 
Hovell,  of  Bury,  and  whose  daughters  mated  with  members  of  the  Visitation  families  of  Clench, 
Chaplyn,  and  Vesey,  may  have  been  his  child.  See  their  pedigree,  vol.  ii,  p.  103. 


Mill  of  |obn  1610. 

The  30th  daye  of  September  in  the  8th  year  of  King  James.  John  Kemp  of  Antingham 
co.  Norfolk  Esqr.  To  the  poor  of  Fritton  co.  Suffolk,  six  poundes.  My  wife’s  linnen  she  brought 
out  of  Suffolke.  Nephew  Rouse,  Parson  of  Flordon :  sonne  John  Jermye  Esqr.  To  the  wives  of 
William  Rose  and  George  Battley,  daughters  of  my  wive’s  mother.  My  sister  Lawrence.  My 
Mannors  in  Suffolk  and  Norfolk  to  Robert  Kemp  gent,  my  sonne.  To  Amphilis  Gryme,  daughter 
of  Martyne  Gryme.  To  my  godson,  the  sonne  of  my  nephew  Robert  Kemp  Esqre.  My  nephew 
Thomas  Kempe,  sonne  of  my  brother  Robert  Kemp.  Robert  Kemp,  my  sonne,  to  be  executor, 
and  my  nephew  Robert  Kemp  of  Gissing  supervisor.  To  the  wife  of  John  Neave,  gent,  of 
Barnyngham.  Nephew  William  Harebourne  and  his  wife,  and  my  cozen  Elizabeth  their  daughter. 
Probate  15th  Dec.  1610.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  Book  105,  fol.  164b. 


KEMPE  OF  BECCLES. 


229 


Inquisition  on  tl)£  fieatl)  of  (Hjomas  1622. 

Suff :  Inquisico  capt  apud  Eye  in  dco  Com  Suff  decimo  septimo  die  Septembr  anno  regni 
Jacobi  Angt  ffranc  et  Hibnie  Regis  vicessimo,  post  mortem  Thome  Kempe  Ar  p  sacrfn 
Nathanielis  Neve  gen,  Willi  Browninge  &c.  Qui  dicunt  sup  sacru  suu  qd  pd  Thomas  Kempe, 
tempore  mortis  sue,  fuit  seit  de  Manlis  de  Weston  in  Corn  pdo,  Ac  de  vno  Capitali  mesuag 
vocat  Kempes  et  diusis  inclausis  pastur  et  bosci  in  Weston  p  estimacoem  ducent  acr  eid 
Capitali  messuagio  spectan.  Et  pdcus  Thomas  Ivempe  obijt  sic  inde  seitus  vicesimo  primo  die 
Maij  anno  regni  dci  Regis  nunc  Angt  vicesimo.  Et  Johes  Kempe  genlosus  est  eius  filius  T 
px  heres.  Et  tempore  mortis  pfat  Thome  Kempe  pris  sui  fuit  etatis  triginta  annor^  et  amplius. 
Et  Jur  pd  dicunt  qd  pdcm  MaSm  de  Weston  tenet1  de  Marnio  de  Beccles  in  Coin  pd  in 
socagio,  et  reddit  decern  solido^  p  annu  et  valet  clare  p  annu  centu  solid.  Et  qd  pd  Capitale 
mesuagm  vocat  Kempes  ac  ducent  acr  tenebantr  de  duo  Rege  nunc  vt  de  hundred  de 
Wangford  et  redditu  quatuor  solid  p  ann  Et  valent  clare  p  ann  centum  solidos. 

Inquisitiones  p.m.  C.,  vol  394,  p.  28. 


Still  of  ^ir  Eobtrt  lumps,  1646. 

The  29th  of  April,  1646,  I  Sr  Robert  Kemp  of  Gissing  co.  Norff.  K4  &  Baronet,  doe  ordaine 

and  make  this  my  last  will  written  with  myne  owne  hand.  First  I  comend  my  soule  into  ye 

handes  of  Almighty  God  my  maker,  and  unto  Jesus  Christ,  my  sweete  Saviour  and  Redeemer, 
thro’  the  meritts  of  whose  most  bitter  death  and  passion,  I  stedfastly  beleeve  to  have  remission 

of  my  sinnes.  My  body,  I  will,  shall  be  buried  in  my  Chappell  in  Gissing  Church. 

To  Robert  Kemp,  my  eldest  son,  all  my  books  and  my  yellow  diamond  ringe  and  an 
annuity  of  £80  a  year,  during  his  minority,  charged  on  Antingham  Manor  and  lands  there.  To 

Thomas  Kemp,  my  second  son,  during  his  life,  an  annuity  of  £60,  out  of  Antingham.  To 

Matthew  Kemp,  my  third  son,  £50  a  yere  for  life,  out  of  Flordon  Manor  and  lands,  to  begin 
when  he  is  sixteen.  To  Richard  Kemp,  my  fourth  son,  £50  a  yere,  when  sixteene  years  of 
age.  To  Maurice  Shelton  4  and  his  wife,2  to  each  of  them  £10,  to  buy  “  moorninge  clothes.” 

To  Dorothy  Jackman,  daughter  of  my  sister  Jackman,  deceased,  £100  at  her  marriage,  if 
it  be  with  the  consent  of  my  executor,  or  of  my  sister  the  Lady  Kemp  in  Essex. 

To  my  loving  brother,  Sir  Robert  Kempe  of  Finchingfield  in  Essex,  and  to  my  sister  his 
wife,  and  to  every  one  of  my  own  brothers,  and  to  my  son  Thomas  Waldegrave  and  his  wife 

£10  a  peice,  to  buy  them  “  moorninge  clothes.”  To  my  grandchild  Jane  Waldegrave  £20. 

To  my  cossen  Rous,  Minister  of  Antingham  S4  Maries,  and  to  my  cossen  Rous,  Minister 
of  Florden,  and  to  Mr  Proctor,  minister  of  Gissinge,  to  each  of  them,  cloth  for  mourning  gownes. 

Jane  my  well  beloved  wife,  during  the  minority  of  my  children,  to  take  their  several 
annuities  for  their  education  and  maintenance.  I  give  her  my  coach  and  coach  horses,  and  two 
other  of  my  horses  fittest  for  her  use,  at  her  choice,  and  also  all  her  jewels.  My  son  Robert  Kemp, 

1  Maurice  Shelton,  of  Barningham,  in  Suffolk,  who  married  Elizabeth  Kempe,  the  testator’s  daughter,  was 

grandson  of  Sir  Ralph  Shelton,  by  Anne,  daughter  of  Thomas  Barrow,  of  Westhorpe.  Sarah  Shelton,  his 
eldest  daughter,  who  became  the  wife  of  Robert  Suckling,  High  Sheriff  of  Norfolk,  was  the  grandmother  of 

Catherine  Suckling,  the  wife  of  the  Rev.  Edmund  Nelson  and  mother  of  Horatio,  Lord  Nelson,  the  hero  of 

Trafalgar. 

2  Elizabeth  Shelton  was  buried  at  Shelton  in  Norfolk  in  1681. 


230 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


when  twenty  one,  or  whoever  is  my  heir,  is  to  take  the  yearly  rents  and  profits  of  all  my 

lands,  subject  to  the  payment  of  my  debts  and  legacies. 

Dame  Jane  my  wife  and  my  much  esteemed  coossen  Sir  William  D’Oyley  of  Shotesham, 
Knight,  to  be  my  Executors.  I  give  the  said  Sir  William  D’oyley  £40,  to  buy  him  a  horse. 

For  the  confidence  of  his  fidelity  and  love  towards  me,  I  do  earnestly  intreat  him  to  be  one 

of  my  executors. 

In  witness  whereof  I  have  put  my  hand  and  seale  to  a  labell  putt  through  ye  topp  of 
this  my  will,  written  with  my  owne  hand  in  fower  sheets  of  paper. 

Proved  6th  Novr  1647.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  Register  1647,  fol.  93b. 

Sir  Robert  Kempe,  Gentleman  of  the  Privy  Chamber  to  Charles  the  First,  was  created  a 
Baronet,  14  March  1641,  for  his  eminent  loyalty  to  that  Monarch.  He  died  20  Aug.  1647,  half 
ruined  by  the  sequestrations  of  the  times. 


Mill  of  Hicborit  lumps,  1649. 

Richard  Kempe  of  Kich-neck  in  the  Collonie  of  Virginia,  Esquire.  My  bodie  to  be  decently 
buried  in  my  orchard.  I  make  my  deare  and  carefull  wife,  Elizabeth  Kempe,  and  my  poore  child 
Elizabeth  Kempe,  my  Executryes  of  my  whoale  estate  in  Virginia,  and  of  all  moneyes  due  to 
mee  in  England,  and  of  all  proceedes  of  Tob :  which  shall  be  shipped  this  yeare.  My  will  is 
that  my  vnckle,  Ralph  Wormeley,  during  the  minority  of  my  child,  be  Executor  on  her  behalfe. 
Executor  to  sell  the  Kich-neck  with  all  the  landes  belonginge ;  and  that  they  make  good  a  sale 
of  three  hundred  acres,  with  plantation  on  thother  side  the  creeke ;  hee  puttinge  in  securitie, 
according  to  his  bargaine,  to  pay  ten  thousand  Haight  of  Tob :  in  cash,  and  paying  for  the 
survey.  Executor  to  graunte  vnto  Geo  :  Keado  fifty  acres,  in  the  barren  necke  where  he  liveth, 
for  my  plantation  at  Kappalianocke.  And  that  my  wife  and  child  departe  this  Cuntrey,  I  desire 
that  my  parte  of  the  house  Att  Towne  be  sould.  Vnto  my  vnckle  Ralph  Wormeley  tenne 
poundes  to  buy  him  a  Ringe.  To  my  brother,  Mr  Edward  Kempe,  five  poundes.  To  my  neaphew, 
Edmunde  Kempe,  one  new  servante  this  yeare,  two  cowes  next  yeare,  and  five  hundred  poundes 
of  Tobaccoi  next  yeare  towards  his  buildinge.  To  my  beloved  freind,  Richard  Lee  forty  shillinges 
to  buy  him  a  ringe.  Lastly  I  pray  God  to  blesse  this  Collony.  And  I  desire  Sir  William 
Berkeley  to  accepte  tenne  poundes  as  a  poore  legacie,  desiringe  his  favoure  and  friendshipp  to 
my  poore  wife  and  child.  The  fourth  day  of  January,  1649, 

This  will  was  proved  at  London,  6th  Dec1  1656,  by  the  oath  of  Elizabeth  Lunsford  als  Kempe 
the  relict,  Elizabeth  Kempe  the  daughter  and  Ralfe  Wormeley  being  both  of  them  deceased,  and 
Dame  Elizabeth  being  first  sworne  truly  to  administer  the  same.  P.C.C.,  455  Berkeley. 

Richard  Kempe,  the  testator,  was  Secretary  of  Virginia,  and  is  frequently  mentioned  in  the 
State  Papers  of  his  day. 

Mill  nf  Sljomas  1667. 

The  23rd  March  1667  I  Thomas  Kempe,  late  of  Thwaite  and  now  within  the  jkuncts  of 
the  Cathedrall  Church  of  Norwich,  gente,  make  and  ordaine  this  my  last  will.  First  and  before 
all  things  I  comend  my  sinfull  soule  into  the  mercifull  hands  of  Almighty  God,  and  my  body 
to  the  earth  to  be  interred  in  the  South  lie  of  the  parish  church  of  Thwayte,  right  before 
the  seate  wherein  the  servants  belonging  to  my  predecessors  and  myselfe  have  used  to  sitt. '  I 


KEMPE  OF  BECCLES. 


231 


appoint  Frances  my  welbeloved  wife  and  Clement  Kempe  my  eldest  sonn  Executors.  I  did 
heretofore  by  Indenture  of  settlement  between  me  and  Sr  Thomas  Corbett,  Sr  Robert  Kempe, 

William  Kempe  and  John  Gostling  gent.,  bearing  date  26  Septr  1649  make  a  voluntary  settle¬ 

ment  of  my  mannor  of  Somerton  Hall  in  Thwayte  with  other  messuages  in  the  County  of 
Norff.  whereby  my  whole  estate  was  setled  vpon  my  sonne  Clement  and  the  heires  of  his  body. 
And  whereas  my  sonne  being  now  of  age  is  well  satisfied  that  there  is  good  cause  to  alter 
the  same,  and  is  ready,  as  becomes  a  dutifull  child,  to  joyne  with  me  in  the  alteration  thereof 
for  the  better  protection  of  his  younger  brethren  and  sisters.  Therefore  I  giue  vnto  Frances 

my  wife  a  yearly  sume  of  ffoure  score  poundes  during  her  life.  I  bequeath  vnto  him  my  said 

Mannor  of  Somerton  Hall  in  Thwayte,  my  capitall  messuage  there,  and  all  other  my  messuages, 
lands  and  tenements  whatsoever.  I  bequeath  to  Hobart  Kempe,  Thomas  Kempe  and  Robert 
Kempe,  my  three  younger  sonnes,  £200  a  peece,  at  their  respective  ages  of  one  and  twenty 
yeares.  I  giue  vnto  Elizabeth  and  Frances  my  daughters  £300  a  peece,  at  their  severall  ages 
af  one  and  twenty  yeares.  I  desire  my  Executors  to  educate  my  youngest  sonne  Robert  in  the 
schooles  of  good  learning,  and  if  he  be  found  capable,  that  he  be  sent  to  the  University  to 
the  studdy  of  Divinity.  I  giue  vnto  my  good  sisters  in  lawe,  Mrs  Elizabeth  Gostling,  the  Lady 
Alford  and  Mrs  Katherine  Corbett  ten  shillinges  a  peece  to  buy  them  Rings.  I  giue  vnto  my 
said  sonne  Clement  Kempe  all  my  goodes.  And  lastly  I  do  constitute  my  most  honord  and 
deare  ffriend  and  kinsman,  Sr  Robert  Kempe  of  Gissing,  Baronett,  Supervisor  of  this  will.  And 
thus  haueing  quieted  my  thoughts  as  to  my  Temporal  Estate,  and  haueing  cast  out  my  Anchor 
vpon  the  Rocke  of  my  hope,  even  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  I  haue  peace  with  God.  Sealed  and 
published  vpon  the  28th  March  1668. 

Probatum  fuit  decimo  sexto  die  Maij  1670  Juramanto  ffranciscse  Kemp,  Relictoe  et  vnius 
Extorum.  Reservata  ptate  similem  comiss  faciendi  dementi  Kemp  filio  &c.  P.C.C.,  61  Penn. 


Still  of  JKanrtce  JSIjelton,  16S0, 

Maurice  Shelton  of  Barningham  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  Esquire,  the  3rd  day  of  October, 
1680.  Whereas  by  Indenture  Tripartite,  dated  2d  April  1680,  made  between  me,  the  said 
Maurice  Shelton,  of  the  first  part,  Sir  Robert  Kemp  of  Ubbeston  in  Suffolk,  Barronet,  and 
Sir  Robert  Baldocke  of  Tacolneston  in  Norfolk,  K*,  of  the  second  part,  and  Philip  Page  of 
Tacolneston,  gent.,  of  the  third  part,  I  have  settled  manors  and  lands,  therein  named,  to  certain 
uses ;  I  hereby  declare  I  have  in  no  wise  revoked  the  said  uses  (other  than  as  to  Fakenham 
Wood),  but  do  will  the  same  to  go  as  is  hereinafter  mentioned. 

And  whereas  by  Tripartite  Indenture  of  25th  May  1672,  made  between  me  and  Martha 
my  wife  of  the  first  part,  Sir  Robert  Kemp  of  TJbbeston,  Barr*  and  Thomas  Wallgrave  the 
elder  of  Smallbridge,  co.  Suffolk  Esqre  of  the  second  part,  and  Sir  Robert  Baldock  and  Richard 
Kempe  of  Brooke  co.  Norfolk  Esqre  of  the  3rd  part,  I  have  assured  my  Manors  of  Reydon 
Hall,  Marks  als  Martins,  Jullies  als  Juloies  &c.  in  Reydon,  Capell,  Holton,  Stratford,  Heigham, 
Shelley,  Leyham,  Hadleigh,  Wenham  and  Wenham  Combust,  in  Suffolk,  to  the  use  of  myself  for 
life,  with  remainder  to  Martha  my  wife  for  her  joynture,  and  after  to  the  said  Robert  Kempe 
and  Thomas  Wallgrave  for  five  hundred  years,  in  trust,  to  raise  £2,500  portion  for  my  daughter 
in  case  of  failure  of  issue  male  by  me,  the  remainder  being  settled  by  the  first  named  Indenture. 
And  whereas  I  have  now  but  one  daughter,  named  Martha,  I  do  hereby,  for  an  addition  to  her 


232 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


portion,  devise  to  Sir  John  Cordell,  Bart.,  and  Thomas  Waldegrave,  Esqre,  My  manors  of  Reydon, 
<fec.  ifec.  to  hold  for  one  thousand  years  on  trust,  to  raise  <£2,500  for  an  additional  portion  for  my 
said  daughter.  And  for  the  further  securing  the  same,  I  give  to  Sir  Charles  Crofts  Read,  Knt, 
Robert  Suckling  gent,  my  brother  in  law,  and  Thomas  Edwards  of  Wisbich  Esqre,  whom  I 
ordain  my  executors,  all  my  wood  called  Fakenham  Wood  and  ground  in  Suffolk,  and  messuages 
&c.  in  the  Wiggenhalls,  Clenchwarton,  Old  Lynn,  Houton,  Tilney,  Islington,  Seche  and  Holme  Hall 
in  Norfolk  on  trust,  to  sell  or  mortgage  to  pay  off  loans  lent  me  by  Mary  Soane,  widow,  Ubbeston. 

I  bequeath  to  each  of  my  executors  £50  for  their  trouble,  and  appoint  my  honoured  uncle, 
Sir  Robert  Kempe  Barr4,  to  be  supravisor.  I  desire  to  be  buried  at  Shelton.  Such  jewells  and 
things  as,  by  the  wills  of  Maurice  Barrow  Esqr  or  of  Maurice  Shelton  Esqr  my  late  father, 
are  given  as  heir  looms  to  my  family,  to  be  preserved  for  that  purpose. 

I  give  to  Martha  my  wife,  the  furniture  of  the  chamber  at  Barningham  called  the  Mattin 
Chamber,  the  bed  and  hangings  in  the  great  chamber  in  the  Gallery  there,  and  all  the  goods, 
she  brought  with  her  at  the  time  of  her  marriage,  and  my  coach  and  four  coach  horses,  and 
their  harness.  And  I  give  to  Maurice  Suckling,  my  godson,  £10  to  buy  him  a  piece  of  plate. 

This  will  was  proved  at  Norwich,  11th  Novr  1680,  by  Robert  Suckling,  one  of  the  Executors. 

Court  of  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Norwich,  -Register  III,  fo.  232. 

The  testator’s  sister  Sarah  married,  1669,  Robert  Suckling,  of  Woodton,  by  whom  she  had 
Maurice,  born  1676,  the  “godson”  of  this  will  (D.D.,  Rector  of  Barsham,  Suffolk).  See  Suffolk 
Manorial  Families,  vol.  ii,  p.  196.  Her  descendants,  the  Sucklings  of  Barsham,  the  now  representa¬ 
tives  of  the  Sheltons,  quarter  their  arms  in  her  right.  Suckling  MSS.  Mus.  Brit. 

Major  Robert  Shelton,  the  testator’s  brother,  “  died  at  Mr.  Suckling’s  house  in  Norwich,  the 
24th  of  May  1690,  aged  36.  Buried  at  Shelton.” 


MtU  of  Jfranccs  Hemp 1689. 

The  seaventh  day  of  February,  1689,  Frances  Kemp  of  Ely  in  Cambridgeshire.  I  give- 
my  interest  in  that  lease,  which  I  hold  of  the  Lord  Bishop  of  Norwich,  unto  my  sonne 

Thomas  Benyon.  I  give  him  £100,  which  was  part  of  my  sonne  Thomas  Kemp’s  portion  which 
came  due  to  me  by  Letters  of  Administration  to  my  sonne  Hobart,  deceased.  Unto  my  dear 
sister  Womack  ffive  pound  to  buy  her  mourning.  Unto  my  granchild  Frances  Kemp  my 

amethist  Ring.  To  my  grandchild  Hester  Benyon  all  my  other  gold  rings  except  my  Wedding 
Ring.  To  my  sonne  Robert  Kemp  my  said  wedding  ring  and  Gold  Seal  and  all  my  books.  I 
ordaine  him  and  my  sonne  Benyon  Executors,  they  to  take  what  is  justly  due  to  them  from 
me.  Sealed  and  subscribed  in  the  presence  of  Samuel  Doughty,  Kath :  Womack,  James  Smyth, 

It  having  pleased  God  to  take  my  sonne  Thomas  Benyon  out  of  this  naturall  life  I  doe 
hereby  make  my  daughter  Mrs  Frances  Benyon,  widdow  of  the  late  Mr  Thomas  Benyon,  joynt 
Executor  with  my  sonne  Robert  Kemp.  In  witnesse  whereof  I  sett  my  hand  and  seal  this 
thirteenth  day  of  December  1690. 

Probatum  28°  die  February  1690  Juramentis  Roberto  Kemp  filij  at  Franciscae  Benyon, 
Extorum.  P.C.C.,  27  Yere. 

By  a  codicill,  dated  20th  Feb.  1685  (P.C.C.,  37  Lloyd),  Lawrence  Womack,  Bishop  of  St. 

David’s,  conditionally  devised  the  half  of  his  books  to  Robert  Kemp,  his  nephew,  at  the  discretion 

of  Mr.  Thomas  Hitch  and  Mr.  Thomas  Benyon  of  Ely,  his  supervisors. 


KEMPE  OF  BECCLES. 


233 


Will  of  Jsur  Holmt  lump,  1704» 

Sr  Robert  Kemp  of  Ubbeston  co.  Suffolk  Barronet,  3d  May  in  the  3rd  year  of  Queen 
Anne,  1704.  To  be  interred  in  my  old  Chappell  at  Gissing  in  Norfolk.  I  revoke  conveyance 

of  Manors  Ac.  made  unto  Thomas  Kemp  and  Peter  Kemp  my  nephews,  sons  of  Matt :  Kemp 

my  late  brother.  My  mannors  of  Ubbeston  Ac.  and  Rectory es  Ac.  in  Dunwich  to  my  eldest 
son  Robert  Kemp  Esqr ;  then  to  his  first  son  Ac.  ;  and  in  default  of  heirs  males,  remainder  to 
William  Kemp  my  youngest  son ;  then  to  his  first  son  Ac. ;  and  in  default  of  such  heires  male, 
unto  my  right  heirs  for  ever.  Unto  my  eldest  son  my  messuages  in  Halesworth  and  Mendham 

co.  Suffolk,  and  my  copyhold  lands  in  Norfolk.  Unto  Dame  Mary  Kemp,  my  wife,  closes  in 

Gissing  in  augmentation  of  her  Joynture.  Unto  her  my  coaches,  charriotts  and  the  plate, 
Jewells  and  goods  given  her  by  my  honoured  mother  in  law,  Mrs  Sone,  by  her  last  will. 
The  Residue  to  my  Executor  for  his  own  use :  he  to  pay  412,000  to  Mary  Kemp,  his  daughter 
due  to  her  by  virtue  of  his  marriage  settlement  with  her  mother.  Wife  and  eldest  son  to  be 
executors.  Probat  3  Nov.  1710,  juramento  Com  Roberti  Kemp,  Barronetti. 

Arch.  Suff.,  Liber  “  Raymond,”  fol.  38. 


of  fiolml  Hemp,  1734* 

The  7th  day  of  December,  1734,  I  Sir  Robert  Kemp  of  Ubbeston  in  the  County  of 
Suffolk,  Baronet,  do  make  and  declare  this  my  last  will.  My  body  I  commit  to  the  earth,  to 
be  buried  in  my  vault  at  Gissing,  between  my  two  former  wives,  and  right  over  my  late 
deceased  wife.  1  will  it  be  put  into  two  Coffins,  a  timber  one  within  the  leaden  one,  by  the 
person  in  Norwich  that  made  my  late  dear  wife’s.  I  give  unto  my  eldest  son,  Robert  Kemp 
Esqr,  all  my  mannors,  messuages  and  lands  in  the  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain ;  he  to  pay 
annuities  and  bequests.  Unto  Dame  Amy,  my  loving  wife,  the  £300  a  year  which  I  settled 
upon  her  before  marriage.  I  bequeath  (sums  of  money,  some  of  them  the  gift  of  their  uncle 
Isaac  Brand)  to  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Kemp ;  my  sons  Thomas,  Benjamin  and  William  Kemp. 
Dame  Amy  Kemp,  my  loving  wife,  to  have  the  care  of  my  daughter  Martha  until  she  marry 

or  come  of  age.  Annuity  to  my  son  John  Kemp,  he  having  hitherto  been  unfortunate  in  the 

world.  My  son  Isaac  has  spent  most  of  the  money  his  uncle  Brand  left  him.  My  mother  in 
law,  Mrs  Elizabeth  Spencer.  To  the  poor  of  Edwardston,  according  to  the  will  of  John  Brand 
Esqr,  my  late  father  in  law.  To  Dame  Amy  my  wife,  my  picture  that  hangs  up  in  her 
dressing  room.  To  my  daughter  Blois  and  my  brother,  William  Kemp  Esqr.  My  son  Robert 
shall  erect  a  monument  in  my  Isle  in  Gissing  Church,  where  my  vault  is.  Dame  Amy  Kemp, 

and  Robert  and  John  Kemp,  my  sons,  to  be  executors.  This  will  was  proved,  10th  May,  1735t 

by  Sir  Robert  Kemp,  Baronet,  and  John  Kemp  Esqr,  two  of  the  executors. 

P.C.C.  104  Ducie. 

Dame  Amy  Kemp  the  widow,  a  descendant  of  the  Burroughs  of  Wickhambrook,  was 
daughter  of  Richard  Phillips  of  Ipswich.  By  John  Burrough,  her  first  husband,  she  had  an 

2  F 


234 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


only  child  Amy,  who  married  Robert  Blois,  eldest  son  of  Sir  Charles  Blois,  Baronet.  Her  will 
and  that  of  her  daughter,  Amy  Blois,  who  was  buried  in  Westminster  Abbey,  will  be  found 
in  vol.  i,  pp.  305,  306,  of  this  work. 

In  consideration  of  Nelson’s  Suffolk  ancestry,  and  especially  of  his  descent,  through  the 
Sucklings  and  the  Sheltons,  from  the  first  Baronet  of  their  name,  the  Kemps  offered  to  sell 
Ubbeston  to  the  Nation  as  a  suitable  seat  for  Earl  Nelson  and  his  family.  Much  concerning 
this  proposal  and  its  consideration  by  Parliament  will  be  found  in  the  “  Historical  Chronicle  ” 
of  1815  and  Mr.  Hitchin-Kemp’s  “  History  of  the  Kempe  Families.” 

By  the  marriage  of  Sir  Robert  Kemp  with  Jane,  daughter  of  Sir  Matthew  Browne,  of 
Beechworth  Castle,  and  other  matches,  the  Kemps  and  their  descendants  derive  a  number  of 
Royal  descents,  the  most  remarkable,  perhaps,  being  that  from  King  Henry  the  Third,  through 
the  Fitz  Alans  and  the  Earls  of  Lancaster.  See  the  Browne’s  pedigree  in  the  volume  of  Surrey 
Visitations  published  by  the  Harleian  Society. 


Still  of  (Kltjabetb  lumpe,  1540. 

The  xxxi  yere  of  the  raygne  of  Kynge  Henry  theyght,  the  xxiii  daye  of  Januari,  I 
Elizabeth  Kempe,  the  dowghter  of  Robert  Kempe  late  of  Gyssyng  in  the  countie  of  Norff., 
Esquiyer,  make  this  my  last  will.  My  body  to  be  buried  in  Redenhall  church  bifore  the  Image 

of  the  Assumcyon,  and  to  have  a  stone  or  a  strowe  of  laten  to  be  graved  and  sett  in  the 

same  stone,  or  in  the  walle  nere,  with  an  Image  of  the  trinite  and  a  pycture  of  a  woman 
knelyng,  conteynyng  thes  wordes,  “  I  besych  you  of  yor  charite  pray  Jesu  to  have  mersy  of 
the  sowle  of  Elysabeth  Kempe.”  To  the  church  where  it  shall  chance  my  body  to  be  buried 
a  vestement  of  whyght  clothe  of  golde,  with  a  crosse  of  crymson  vellet  imbroyderyd  with  Jesus 
of  gold,  and  in  the  mydys  of  the  same  crosse  a  crucyfyx,  with  our  ladye  and  Saynt  John ; 
with  the  aube  and  stole  and  all  therto  belongyng,  as  chales  of  sylver  and  gylte,  a  superaltare, 
two  alter  clothes  of  lynnen  to  be  layd  upon  the  alter,  &c.  To  my  cozen  Robert  Applyard  a 
ryng  of  gold  graven  within  “Null  Joy  saunz  payne.”  My  owne  felowe  Mastres  Coke,  wedowe, 
of  Rumforth  :  my  cozin  Roger  Rockewode ;  my  sister  Anne  Bacon ;  my  nevy  Robard’s  wife ; 

my  nevy  Robert  Kempe,  the  eldest  son  of  my  brother  Bartylmewe ;  my  neces  Anne  and 
Elizabeth  Bacon.  To  my  aunte  Melton  a  night  gowne  of  blacke  chamblett,  weltyd  abowght 

with  blacke  vellet.  My  cosyns  John  and  Mary  Dade;  my  mother  Bacon;  Margarett  Jernyngham ; 
Robert  Jarnyngham  and  his  brother  Thomas ;  my  aunt  Alys ;  Alys  Rockod  my  maid ;  my  nevy 
Thomas  Bacon ;  Phylup  and  Anthony  Chought ;  my  unckyll  Syr  William  (?  William  Kempe  of 
Sprockton,  priest,  who  made  will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1549) ;  my  brother  Bacon  ;  my  neces  Elysabeth 
Apylearde  and  Elysabeth  Dade.  To  my  nevew  Robert  Bacon  a  salte  of  sylver  gilte,  my  sknofers, 
a  boocke  of  Deytte,  a  boocke  of  witecrafte,  a  boocke  of  the  folowyng  of  Criste,  a  booke  of  the 
seven  salmes  and  a  boke  of  John.  The  Residue  I  bequethe  to  my  sister  Anne  Bacon,  whom 
with  my  cosyns  Robert  Aplyeard  and  J  ohn  Dade,  I  ordeyn  my  executors ;  and  my  cozen 
Nycholas  Rockwode,  esquyer,  supervisor.  No  probate  is  recorded. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  Register,  “  Godsalve,”  1532-3,  fol.  92. 


KEMPE  OF  BECCLES. 


235 


Mill  of  (£tifoar&  €nnpf,  1671. 

Edward  Kempe,  Priest  of  Holy  Church  and  Fellow  of  Queen’s  Colledge  in  the  Vniversity 
of  Cambridge,  the  23d  day  of  October  1671.  My  frequent  infirmities  and  (great)  age  call  upon 
me  to  prepare  for  my  last  end.  I  doe  professe  my  selfe  a  sonne,  though  very  vnworthy,  of 
the  Church  of  England.  I  would  not,  for  any  thing  in  this  world,  dissent  from  what  the 
Catholick  Church  of  Christ  (doth)  hold  and  believe.  I  hope  I  shall  not  dye  soe  sodainely  but 
that  I  shall  haue  tyme  to  receive  my  absolution  from  some  Priest  of  Ploly  Church.  I  forgive 
all  the  world  any  injuries,  whatsoever  haue  beene  offered  me,  and  I  desire  all  men’s  forgivenesse 
in  what  I  may  haue  offended  them.  My  body  I  desire  may  be  interred  in  holy  ground,  there 
to  expect  a  glorious  resurrection,  when  God  shall  raise  it  from  its  dust.  I  doe  giue  vnto  the 
said  Queen’s  Colledge  the  sume  of  three  hundred  powndes  to  purchase  land,  or  a  rent  charge 
vpon  land,  in  vsum  sacelli,  for  the  maintenance  of  God’s  solemne  service  and  worshipp  in  the 
Chappell  of  the  saide  Colledge,  according  to  the  Rites  now  practiced  by  the  Church  of  England. 
I  giue  vnto  my  nephew,  Sr  Robert  Kempe,  the  sume  of  two  hundred  pownds,  out  of  the  five 
hundreds  of  mine  now  in  the  hands  of  Mr  Charles  Baron  of  Little  Eversden  in  the  County  of 
Cambridge.  I  nominate  Mr  Charles  Smyth,  ffellow  of  Queen’s  Colledge,  my  sole  executor. 
Surplusage  of  moneys  I  giue  vnto  my  said  nephew  Sr  Robert  Kempe.  My  will  to  be  entered 
into  the  Register  of  said  Colledge.  Probatum  28°  Nov.  1671,  coram  Deputat  Procancellarii 
Almas  Universitatis  Cantebr,  Comiss  adfti  Carolo  Smith  executori. 

Court  of  the  Chancellor,  U.  of  Cambridge,  Wills  1658-1736,  fo.  121. 


Prtrigrrc  from  tfjc  Suffolk  ©tottatton,  1612. 

Rob’t  Kempe  of  Gessinge  in  Suff :  mar :  to  his  first  ivyfe  Eliz :  d :  of  Edmond  Snythwin 
of  Bar  Ices  hire  <&  had  issue  Richard  Kempe  of  Washbrooke  in  Suff:  sonne  &  h :  who  mar :  Alice 
d :  of  Phillip  Cokeram  of  Mydelsex :  John  2d  sonne  mar :  Ann  d :  of  Thom :  Coddon  of  Wenston 
Gent :  Margaret  mar :  to  Thom  Rowse  of  Cransford  in  Suff :  Ann  mar :  to  Anthony  Drury  ; 
he  mar :  to  his  2d  ivyfe  Eliz :  d :  of  Edmond  Gray  &  had  issue  Thom :  3d :  Rob’t  f  sonne 
mar :  Ann  d :  of  Will’m  Stanton  of  Westmerrland :  Will’m  5  sonn :  Eliz : 

Thom:  Kempe  of  Becketts  in  Suff:  Esqre  the  3d  sonne  of  Rob’t  mar:  Ann  eldest  d:  & 
coheir e  of  Jo :  Moore  of  Ipswich  <&  hathe  issue  Jo :  sonne  &  h  :  Thom :  2d.  Robt  3d  :  Elizabeth 
mar:  to  Josias  Fawether  of  Brisett  in  Suff:  Ann:  Mary:  Martha:  &  Rebeca. 

John  Kempe  sonne  &  h :  of  Thom :  mar :  Eliz :  d.  of  John  Darby  of  Bramford  in  Suff: 
Gent.  Harl.  MS.  1820,  fo.  25b. 

The  best,  perhaps,  of  the  older  Kempe  pedigrees  is  that  in  Harl.  MS.  1154,  fo.  69b.  It 
gives  the  lineage  of  the  Butvilleins  and  Cliffords,  the  descendants  of  Edmund  Kempe  of  London 
and  Bridget  Style,  and  the  eldest  sons  of  Robert  Kempe  of  Bury  and  his  brother,  William  Kempe — 
details  not  to  be  found  in  better  known  genealogies  of  the  family.  It  also  shows  that  Alexander 
Kempe  of  Weston,  1327,  was  another  of  the  children  of  Allan  Kempe  of  that  parish. 

It  has  drawings  too  (fo.  lc)  of  a  number  of  Kempe  shields  “  in  the  windowes  at  Mr.  Fawether,” 
as  Kempe  impaling  Stanton;  Kempe,  with  a  mullet  for  difference,  impaling  Moore  of  Ipswich  ; 
the  arms  of  “  Moore  ''wnn  a  Mantell  over  the  chimlie  peece ;  ”  and,  probably  by  way  of  a  pleasantry, 
“  his  woord,”  or  motto,  “  Memento  Mori.” 

2  F2 


236 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Hcntpr  of  OTfSton,  Hutting  anti  33rcrlc£S. 


Allan  Kemp  of  Weston- 
in  Suffolk,  11  E.  2. 
Harl.  MS.  1552. 


zIsabell  da. 
of  Sir  Philip 
Hastings. 


Robert  Duke  of  Bramp-=f= Julian  da.  8f  coh.  of  Sir  Robert  Butvilleyne  of 
ton  in  Suffolk.  Harl.  Cotisbrooke  co.  Northampton  :  ( Aunt  8f  heire 
of  William  Butvillen.  Harl.  MS.  1561). 


ton  in  Suffolk. 
MS.  1552. 


Geoffrey,  son  of  Allan  Kempe,  of  Alexander. 
Weston,  sells  his  Suffolk  lands  by  Harl.  MS. 
Fine,  11  E.  2,  1318.  1154. 


John  Kempe  of=rAlice,  da.  8f 


Weston  in  Suf¬ 
folk. 


heir.  But  see 
below. 


Walter  Duke,  William,  Geoffrey  and  Alexr.  Kempe 

ob.  s.p.  Harl.  were  of  Weston  and  Ellough.  Suf- 

MS.  1561.  folk  Subsidy,  1327. 


i - - - 1 - - 1 - 1 - u 

1.  Robert  Kempe  son  ^=f=3Iary  da.  of  Bartholomew  White  2.  John.  3. Richard.  Margaretvx  Love-  Alice 
heir.  Harl.  MS.  1552.  |  of  Shotisham  in  Norfolk.  day  of  Norwich.  Kempe. 

, _ _ _ i 


Jeffery  Kempe,  probably  of  Weston, = 
in  Suffolk. 


=.  .  .  da.  of  Scharington  of  Craneworth  in  the  North : 
(Of  Sherington  co.  Norf :  Harl.  MS.  1177.) 


Harl.  MS.  1552. 


.  .  Kempe,  of  Weston,^ Alice,  daughter  of  Julian,  one  of  the  sisters  of  Sir  Robert  Butvillein,  of  Northamp- 


in  Suffolk,  circa  1430. 
Close  Roll,  6  E.  4. 


tonshire,  and  cousin  of  William  Butvillein,  Esqr.,  lord  of  the  manors  in  Gissing  and 
Flordon,  co.  Norff.  Close  Roll,  6  E.  4,  m.  34  b.  See  page  226. 


Robert  Kempe.  of  Weston,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  succeeded  1460  to  the  Gissing=j=Elizabeth  da.  of  ..  .  Curson  of 
Manors  (Hastinges  and  Dallynges)  of  his  kinsman,  William  Butvillein,  Esqr.  folk.  Probably  Stuston,  where 


2.  Edmund  (Vide  London )  mar.  Brigida,  sister  ofSr  Hum- 
frey  Style.  Harl.  MS.  1463.  Will,  P.C.C.  8  Spert,  1542. 


3.  John.  4.  William. 


Before  the  marriage,  in 
the  15th  century,  of  .  .  . 
Kempe  with  the  niece  of 
Sir  Robert  Butvillein,  the 
pedigree  in  Harl.  MS. 
1552,  upon  which  the 
present  one  is  founded,  is 
inexact  and  misleading.  . 


Stouton  or  Stutton  in  Suf- 
her  dau.  Cicely  lived. 


Alice,  a  nun  Cicely  vx  John  Melton  of  Sturston  in  Suffolk, 
at  Barking.  Her  Will,  P.C.C.  30  Bucke,  24  Dec.  1550. 


1  wife.  Elizabeth  da.  af  John  Apliard=pl-  Robert  Kemp  of  Gissing  in  Norfolk,  Esq.  Will,  Cur.=f=2  wife.  Anne  da.  of  Clifford  of  Kent. 


of  Blacknashe  in  Norfolk.  (Braknash, 
Harl.  MS.  1561.)  Bracon  Ash. 


Ep.  Norw.,  1526.  Inq.  p.m.  19  H.  8.  Manors  in  Gissing 
and  lands  in  Weston,  Ellough,  etc.,  co.  Suffolk. 


A  settlement  dated  4  H.  7,  1489,  is  re¬ 
ferred  to  in  her  husband’s  Inquisition. 


i — r 


Ann  ux  Richard  Bacon  of 
Harleston  in  Norfolk. 

Elizabeth,  sans  issue.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1540. 


Anne  ux  Thos  Ger- 
negan  of  Cove  in 
Suffolk.  (Mary) 
Harl.  MS.  1561.' 


Bartholomew 
Kemp  of  Gis¬ 
sing,  b.  1497. 
Inq.p.m.1554. 


r~ 


2.  William. 

3.  Antony,  of  Florden. 
Will,  P.C.C.  37  Lawe. 


4.  Edward  Kemp  of  London,  mercer— 
Mary,  da.  of  Edmund  Gray  of  Martin 
(Merton),  and  had  issue,  1,  Robert ;  2, 
Charles ;  3,  Edmond ;  and  Margaret. 


Ann  da.  of  John  Alleyne  Lewis 
of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  Kempe, 
His  Will,  P.C.C.  23  Feti-  2  son. 
place,  1513. 


"i — i 


Margaret  ux  Rob *  Bleverhasset. 

Florence  ux  S''  Richard  Wooddall  of 
Framston  in  Suffolk,  Knight. 


5.  Francis  (Kemp  of  Litle  Hadham  in 
Com.  Hertford.=Armynell  da.  of  John 
Brook  of  London)  :  had  issue.  Visita¬ 
tion  of  London,  1634.  Harl.  Soc. 


6.  Bartholomew  ( Kemp  of  London. 
=Barbara,  d.  of  Sharpe  of  Lon¬ 
don),  and  had  son,  Barthelmew 
K.  of  Croydon.  Harl.  MS.  1561. 


Elizabeth  da.  of  Edmund=F=l.  Robert  Kemp  of  Gissing  ^Elizabeth,  da.  of  Edmund  Grey  of  Martyn 


Smythwin  of  Berkshire. 
1  wife.  See  Pedigree  A. 


son  8f  heir.  Inq.  p.m.  1595 ; 
mont.  in  Gissing  church. 


A 


in  Norfolk,  2  wife ;  sister  to  Mary  Gray 
who  m.  Edward  Kemp,  Robert’s  brother. 


Thomas.  Admon.  Elizabeth  ux  Lionel 
to  Edward  his  bro-  Throkmortonof  Flix- 
ther  1562.  ton  in  Suffolk. 


3.  Thomas  Kempe  of^Ann,  eldest  d. 


Becketts  in  Suffolk 
Esqr_  Harl.  MS.  1820. 
Inq.  p.m.  20  Jas. 


coheire  of  John 
Moore  of  Ipswich. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  John 
Buxton  of  Tibben- 
ham,  4  Sept.  1584. 


5.  William  Kemp,  mar.  Thomasine,  da. 
of  Wm.  Waldegrave,  of  Hitcham.  She 
renupt.Samuel  Harsnet,Bp.  of  Norwich. 
Hn&Will’mK.  sonne  ffh.  Harl.  MS.  1154. 


4.  Robert  Kempe  of=j =Anne  da. 


Bury  St. Edmunds, 
1593 ;  of  London. 
Harl.  MS.  1154. 


1.  John  Kempe,  s.  (f  h.  mar.=^ Jane,  da.  and  coh.  of  Tho- 


heir  of  Wm 
Stanton  of 
Weston. 


Eliz.  d.  of  John  Darby  of 
Bramford  in  Suff :  gent.  He 
was  of  Beccles  and  Th waite. 


mas  Hobart,  of  Thwait, 
in  Norfolk,  by  Ann,  da. 
of  William  Raynes. 


Thom.  2d  son, 
Robt.  3d  son, 
Ann,  Martha 
fy'  Rebecca. 


Elizabeth  ux 
Josias  Fawe- 
therofBrisett 
■in  Suff. 


Mary  ux  Rich¬ 
ard  Mann  :  m. 
lie.  Arch.  Suff. 


Robert  Kempe, 
devisee  of  his 
uncle  Richard 
Kempe,  1599. 


Thomas  Kempe, 
son  8f  h.  Harl. 
MS.  1154,  fo.  70. 
Living  1610. 


Thomas  Kempe,  of  Thwaite,  Esq.,  and  after  of  Norwich,  clerk.=j=Frances,  da.  of  Sir  Thomas  Corbet;  mar.  circa  1649.  Will,  P.C.C. 
Will,  P.C.C.  61  Penn,  1667  ;  prob.  1670.  Somerton  Hall  Manor.  I  27  Vere  1690.  M.I.  in  St.  Mary’s  Church,  Ely. 


Hobart  Kempe,  died  Elizabeth 
at  sea,  1689,  s.p.  Kempe. 


Clement  Kempe,  of  Thwaite, =p.  .  .  dau.  of  .  .  .  Whit-  Thomas  ;  dead  1689. 
Norfolk,  heir  to  his  father.  I  ton  of  Wilby.  — 

Robert ;  living  1689. 


Frances,  dau.  and  heir,  mar.  John  Horne,  of  Witchingham,  gent. 


Frances,  mar.  Rev.Thomas 
Benyon,  1684;  he  was  dead 
in  1690,  leaving  issue. 


KEMPE  OF  BECCLES. 


237 


•prtjigm  <3.  Ixcntpc  of  <§tsstng  anti  itbtifston. 


/ 


Elizabeth,  da.  of  Edmund  Smyth — \-l.  Robert  Kemp  of  Gissing ^Elizabeth,  da.  of  Edmund  Gh-ey  of  Martyn  (Merton) 
win,  of  Berkshire,  1st  wife.  son  8f  heire.  A\in  Norfolk,  2  wife.  See  Kempe  of  Beccles. 


1.  Richard  Kempe  of  Alice,  da.  of  Philip 


Wasbrooke  in  Suffolk 
and  of  Gissing.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  12 
Mar.  1599. 


Cockram,  of  Hamp- 
sted,  co.  Middx. ;  re¬ 
married  Edward 
Poley. 


2.  John  Kemp,  of  Ant-= 
ingham.  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  1610.  Mon¬ 
ument  in  the  church. 
Ann  Calthrop,  2  wife. 


-Anne,  da.  of  Thos 
Codom  of  Suffolk. 
Cuddon,  of  Weston 
in  Suffolk  ;  1  wife. 


Margaret,  ux. 
Thomas  Rowse, 
of  Cranford, 
in  Suffolk. 


i _ 


Anne,  ux.  Anthony 
Drury  of  Besthorpe, 
who  made  will  in 
1616,  P.C.C.  109 
Cope. 


Robert  Kemp,  of  Gissing,  died  1612,  ost.=f  Dorothy,  da.  of  Arthur  Harris  of 


47.  Will,  P.C.C.  46  Capell,  proved  1613. 
M.I.  in  Gissing  Church. 


3.  Richard  Kempe,  Secretary  of  Vir¬ 
ginia,  1634.  Will,  P.C.C.  445  Berke¬ 
ley,  proved  1656,  by  Dame  Elizabeth 
Lunsford,  his  relict.  Had  issue. 


Crixsey  in  Essex,  by  Dorothy,  da.  of 
Sir  Wm.  Waldegrave.  She  made  will, 
P.C.C.  120  Hele,  1626. 


Robert  Kemp,  only  son,  settled 
estates  upon  his  kinsman,  Sir 
Robt.  Kemp,  Bart,  Admon. 
1626.  He  died  s.p. 


Edward  Rouse,  Rector 
of  Flordon,  1607 ;  de¬ 
visee  of  his  uncle,  1599. 


4.  Arthur  Kempe,  R.  of 
St.  Michael’s  at  Thorn, 
Norwich.  Will,  P.C.C.|68 
Rivers ;  probate  1645. 


5.  Edward  Kempe,  Fellow 
of  Queen’s  Coll.,  Camb. 
Will,  1671,  Chancellor’s 
Court,  U.  of  Cambridge. 


6.  Edmund  Kempe  of 
Virginia,  Attorney 
there  for  Sir  Robert; 
had  issue,  1644. 


- 1 

Matthew  (?) 
Colonel  Mat¬ 
thew  Kempe, 
of  Virginia. 


1.  Sir  Robert  Kempe,  1st  Bart.^Jane,  da.  of  Sir  Ma-  2.  John  Kempe. 


•of  Gissing ;  raised  troop  for  K. 
Charles.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
1647. 


thew  Browne,  of  — Amphillis,  da. 
Beechworth  Cas-  of  Roger  Bigot, 
tie,  co.  Surrey, Bart,  of  Antingham. 


Thomas  Kempe,  de¬ 
visee  of  Sir  Robt. 
Kempe,  of  Essex, 
Knt.,  1662. 


Dorothy,  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Sir  Robert 
wife  of  Kempe,  of  Essex,  Kt.  His 

William  Will,  P.C.C.  140  Juxon,  1662, 
Jackman,  names  Gissing  relations. 


Sir  Robert  Kempe,  of  Ub-= 
beston,  Suffolk,  2d  Bart. ; 
m.  1st  Mary,  da.  of  Tho. 
Kerredge,  who  died  s.p. 


Jane,  wife  of  John 
Dade,  M.D.,  of  Tan- 
nington,  Suffolk ;  lb. 
1657,  m.  1694. 


Mary,  da.  &  h.  of  John 
Sone,  of  Ubbeston. 
Her  motheHs  Will 
1679,  Arch.  Suff. 


— i — i - 

2.  Thomas  Kempe. 

3.  Matthew  K.  had 
sons  Thomas  and 
Peter,  1714. 


Richard  Kempe, 
ofUbbeston.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.  1714. 
Add.  MS.  19,138. 


J ane,  wife  of  Tho. 
Waldegrave,  of 
Smallbridge,  in 
co.  Suffolk. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of  Maurice 
Shelton, of  Bamingham,  Suf¬ 
folk;  had  with  other  issue 
a  daughter. 


Mary,  wife  of  Sir 
Charles  Blois, 
Bart.,  mar.  at  Ub¬ 
beston  1680. 


William  Kempe,  mar.= 
1st  Jane  Coleman.  He 
d.  1744.  M.I.  Anting¬ 
ham  Church,  Norff. 


:Elizabetli,  da.  and 
heir  of  Alderman 
Shardelow,  2d 
wife. 


Sarah  Shelton,  Maid  of  Honour  to  Queen 
Catherine  of  Braganza  She  mar.  Robert 
Suckling,  whose  grand-dau.,  Catherine 
Suckling,  was  the  mother  of  Lord  Nelson. 


Letitia,  da.  of  Robt.=f  Sir  Robert  Kemp,  of  Ub-: 


King,  of  Thurlow, 
Suff.,  1st  wife.  Her 
da.,  .  .  .  Kemp,  max-. 
Sir  Edmd.  Bacon,  the 
premier  Baronet.  /f\ 


beston,  co.  Suffolk,  3d 
Bart.  ;b.  1767.  Will, P.C.C. 
104  Ducie,  1734.  Wrote 
his  name  “  Kemp.” 


Mary  Elizabeth, =j=Martha,  da.  of  Wm.=Amy,4th  wife,  da.  of  Richd. 

Phillips,  and  widow  of  John 
Burrough,  of  Ipswich.  For 
her  Will  and  ancestry,  see 
vol.  i,  pp.  305,  306. 


da.  &  h.  of  John 
Brand,  of  Ed- 
wardston,  co. 
Suff.,  2d  wife. 


Blackwell,  of  Mort- 
lock,  co.  Surrey,  3d 
wife,  by  whom  3 
childn.  She  d.  1727. 


Sir  William  Kemp, 
8th  Bart.,  d.  1799. 
He  mar.  Marylves, 
of  Coltshall,who  d. 
1762, leaving  issue . 


A 


1.  Sir  Robert  Kemp,  4th 
Bart.,  b.  1669  ;  was  M.P. 
for  Orford,  and  d.  unm. 
1752. 


2.  Sir  John  Kemp,  5th  Bart., 
b.  1700 ;  mar.  Elizabeth,  da. 
of  Thos.  Mann ;  d.  s.p.  1761. 
Will,  P.C.C.  435  Cheslyn. 


3.  Rev.  Thos.  Kemp,  R.  of  Gissing, 
m.  Ann  Mallum.  Their  son,  Sir  John 
Kemp,  6th  Bart.,  d.  a  minor  and 
unm.  1771. 


4.  Sir  Benjamin  Kemp,  7th 
Bart.,  b.  1708 ;  d.  s.p.  1777, 
aet.69.  Will,  P.C.C.  73  Col- 
lier;  was  s.  by  his  cousin. 


Sir  William  Robert  Kemp, 
9th  Bart.,  born  1744  ;  mar¬ 
ried  1788  ;  died  1804. 


Sarah,  dau.  and  h.  of  Thomas  Benjamin  Kemp,  2d  son,  of  Swafield,= 
Thomas  Adcock,  of  Norfolk,  d.  1837 ;  M.I.  in  Antingham  Church. 
Carleton,  co.  Norfolk.  Had,  with  several  daughters, 


:Sarah,  da.  of 
.  .  .  Cooke. 


John  Kemp ;  had 
two  wives,  and  died 
s.p. 


Rev.  Sir  Wm.  Robert  Kemp,=Mary,  da.  of  Charles  Sir  Thomas  Kemp, 
10th  Bart.,  Rector  of  Gissing  ;  Saunders,  Esq.,  of  11th  Bart.,  died  s.p. 
b.  1791 ;  d.  1874,  s.p.  Camberwell.  1874. 


Rev.  Thomas  Cooke  Kemp,  Rector=pJane,  da.  of  Robert 


of  East  Meon,  co.  Southampton  ;  b. 
1787. 


Pretyman,  of  Eye, 
co.  Suffolk. 


Rev.  Nunn  Robert 
Pretyman  Kemp. 


Mary,  grand-da. 
of  Admiral  Ha- 
gar. 


Thomas  Cooke=Mary  Louisa,  da.  of 
Kemp,  ob.  s.p.  A.  Canham,  of  Ford- 
ham,  Cambr. 


Martha  Maria,  mar. 
1830  James  Burnax-d. 


Elinora  Sarah  Caro¬ 
line,  ob.  s.p. 


- 1 

Lucretia  Me¬ 
lissa,  died  1901 
s.p. 


Sir  Kenneth  Hagar  Kemp,=j=Henrietta  Mary  Eva,  da.  of  Henry  Capt.  Edgar  Kemp,=Ellen,  da.  of  Alfred  Caroline  Russell  Kemp,  mar. 
12th  Bart.,  born  1853.  |  Hamilton,  of  Chilham,  Kent.  died  1873  s.p.  Giles,  Esq.,  M.P.  Rev.  John  Sharp,  D.D.,  some 

^  time  Rector  of  Gissing. 


©arroto  of  Westhorpe. 


Armorial  Scarings. 

The  Arms  of  Barrow  of  Westhorpe,  as  sketched  in  that  admirable  collection  of  Suffolk 
pedigrees,  Harl.  MS.  1560,  were  Quarterly  of  six,  1,  Barrow,  Sable  two  swords  in  saltire 
Argent,  hilts  and  pomels  Or,  between  four  fleurs-de-lys,  all  within  a  bordure  of  the  third ;  2, 
Bures,  Ermine,  on  a  chief  dancette  Sable,  two  lions  rampant  Or ;  3,  Roydon,  chequy  Argent 
and  Gules,  a  cross  Azure;  4,  (1)  Morieux,  Azure,  three  leaves  Or;  5,  Farmor,  Ermine,  a  chevron 
Sable  between  three  roses  Gules ;  6,  Party  per  bend  wavy  Sable  and  Or.  The  Crest  which 
heads  the  pedigree  of  Barrow  in  Harl.  MS.  1552,  a  similar  volume  which  treats  of  Norfolk,  is 
a  hind’s  head  couped  Argent.  In  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664  (Harl.  MS.  1085)  a  shield, 
with  two  swords  in  saltire  between  four  fleurs-de-lys,  accompanies  the  name  of  “  Morris  Barrow 
of  Barningham  Esq.,”  but  no  tinctures  are  indicated. 

The  arms  of  the  Sheltons  of  Barningham,  who  inherited  most  of  the  Barrow  estates,  were 
Or,  a  cross  Azure. 


Mill  of  Milliam  Sarroio,  1615. 

Wiiim  Barrow  of  Westhorpe  co.  Suff.  Esq.  23  Dec.  1613.  To  be  buried  in  Westhorpe 
church.  Estate  to  executor  vntill  Maurice,  my  only  sonne,  come  to  the  age  of  twentie  and  ffower 
yeres.  Vnto  my  daughter  £1600  at  her  age  of  eighteene  yeares,  whether  married  or  no.  Vnto 
Jane  Hunte,  my  goddaughter  of  my  neece  Hunte  £100.  Vnto  my  nephewe,  Henry  Shelton,  rent 
chardge  out  of  my  Mannor  of  Reydon  hall  in  Suffolk  during  his  life.  If  my  sonne  and 
daughter  dye  wthout  heires  of  their  bodies,  the  one  moytie  of  my  Mannor  of  Newton  in 
Suffolke  shall  remayne  vnto  my  nephewe,  John  Claxton,  and  the  other  vnto  Anne  Claxton,  my 
neece ;  and  my  (other)  manors  and  lands  vnto  my  nephewe  Henry  Shelton  and  the  heires  of 
his  body ;  and  for  default  of  such  issue,  unto  the  right  heires  of  me,  William  Barrow  for  ever. 
I  appoint  Elizabeth,  my  now  wife,  sole  executor.  Probatum  xxi°  die  Januarij  1613,  juramento 
Elizabeth*  Barrowe,  relicte.  P.C.C. 


Mill  of  JRauritt  IBarrohi,  1665. 

Maurice  Barrow  of  Barningham  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk  Esq.,  16tl‘  Nov.  1665.  To  be 
buried  in  a  vault  I  built  at  the  end  of  the  north  side  of  Westhorpe  church  for  myself  and 
Mary,  Lady  Pointz,  my  wife.  She  is  already  well  endowed.  I  bequeath  her  nine  pieces  of 


BARROW  OF  WESTHORPE. 


239 


Arras  hangings  given  me  by  Mr  Richard  Smith,  my  father  in  law,  and  lands  in  Reydon  and 
Newton  near  Sudbury  during  her  life.  For  the  advancement  of  the  ancient  family  of  the  Sheltons, 
being  of  noble  extraction,  I  give  my  Manors,  Ac.,  of  Roydon  Hall,  Newton,  Westhorpe  and 
Coneyweston,  to  Maurice  Shelton  the  elder  and  the  heirs  of  his  body.  In  default  of  such,  I 
give  my  Manor  and  Advowson  of  Newton  unto  my  loving  couzin  Hamond  Claxton  :  and  one 
third  of  my  Manor  and  Advowson  of  Westhorpe  to  my  couzin  Charles  Fitch,  Esq.,  son  and  heir  of 
Sir  William  Fitch,  Kfc,  deceased.  Maurice  Shelton,  eldest  son  of  said  Maurice,  whose  father  (my 
entirely  beloved  cousin)  entrusted  me  with  his  and  his  two  sisters’  education.  My  Manor  of 
Packmaston  in  Kent  to  said  cousin  Hamond  Claxton.  Lands  in  Erith,  Plumsted  and  Lesnes, 
co.  Kent,  to  be  sold.  William  Barrow,  Esq.,  my  late  father;  his  eldest  sister,  wife  of  John 
Claxton,  Esq.,  my  late  uncle.  Thomas  Dandy,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Dandy,  deceased,  my 
kinsman.  Edmund  Ferneley,  Esq.,  my  kinsman,  and  Edmund,  Elizabeth  and  Mary,  his  children. 
Kinsmen  John  Sothebie,  James  Sothebie  of  London  and  Roger  Sothebie.  My  cousins  Francis 
Quarles,  Rector  of  Newton,  and  William  Quarles  of  Norwich.  My  cousins  Mary,  wife  of  Mr 
Richard  Humfrey,  and  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Mr  Charles  Humfrey,  deceased.  My  kinsman,  Sir 
Edmund  Bacon,  deceased.  Charles  Fitch,  Esq.,  my  cousin,  Barrow  Fitch  his  eldest  son  and 
Elizabeth,  Lady  Moore,  his  sister.  Lands  in  Hopton,  Weston,  Euston,  Knettishall,  Barningham, 
Ac.,  co.  Suffolk.  Farm  called  Brakland  Parke  in  Bardwell  and  Fakenham  Wood,  containing 
three  hundred  and  fifty  acres.  Indentures  recapitulated.  Maurice  Shelton  the  elder,  Hamond 
Claxton  and  John  Sothebie  to  be  executors.  For  the  finishing  of  the  vault  at  Westhorpe,  and 
the  erecting  of  an  iron  gate  for  its  preservation  I  appoint  the  sum  of  £500.  Blacks  and  rings 
to  be  given  to  my  kindred  and  friends,  and  blacks  to  my  servants,  to  the  value  of  £600,  my 
body  being  buried  with  all  decency  and  privacy.  To  the  Lady  Pointz,  my  dear  wife,  my  best 
fasset  diamond  Ring  (valued  at  a  hundred  pounds)  during  her  life,  and  after  her  decease,  to 
Maurice  Shelton  the  elder  Esqr  my  godson ;  to  whom  I  give  my  blue  saphir  ring,  and  my 
Guilt  Cup  and  cover  thereunto,  desiring  they  may  be  left  by  him  to  Maurice  Shelton  his  son 
(and  my  godson),  and  so  to  the  successive  heirs  of  the  ancient  family  of  the  Sheltons  for  ever. 
As  for  the  Mannors  of  Sfc  Cleers  &  Netherhall  &  my  Mansion  house  wherein  I  dwell  called 
Barningham  Hall  and  my  parke  called  Brakland  Parke,  I  limit  the  same  to  Maurice  Shelton 
the  elder  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body.  Nevertheless,  if  Mary  Lady  Pointz,  my  dear  wife,  by 
reason  of  her  inability  to  travell,  be  desirous  to  dwell  there  at  a  reasonable  rent,  the  said 
Maurice  Shelton  (for  my  sake)  to  yield  her  all  due  respect  and  assistance.  My  will  is  that 
she  shall  have  yearly,  during  her  life,  four  brace  of  bucks  and  four  brace  of  does,  out  of  the 
said  parke.  All  other  my  Manors  and  lands  shall  remain  and  stand  to  the  use  of  Hamond 
Claxton  of  Great  Livermere  Esqr  A  John  Sothebie  of  Bury  S1,  Edmunds  Esqr  and  their  executors 
for  the  space  of  twenty  years  after  my  decease,  who  shall  out  of  the  rents  thereof  pay  all 
my  debts,  mortgages,  funeral  expenses  and  legacies.  My  dear  father,  William  Barrow  Esq.  did 
constantly  intend,  in  case  he  died  without  issue,  the  greatest  part  of  his  estate  to  the  issue 
of  his  eldest  sister.  The  posterity  of  his  second  sister  is  fairly  enabled  by  lands  descended 
from  John  Claxton  Esqr  my  late  uncle,  and  by  gifts  of  Hamond  Claxton,  deceased.  To  Maurice 
Shelton,  eldest  son  of  Maurice  Shelton  the  elder,  my  chamber  in  Graye’s  Inne  in  the  county 
of  Middx.  This  lengthy  will  concludes  with  numerous  bequests  to  friends,  annuities  to  old 
servants,  and  substantial  gifts  to  the  poor. 


Abridged  from  a  copy  in  the  Davy  MSS. 


240 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Prtucjm,  Barr  oil)  of  OTrstijorp,  ^Ijclton. 


Richard  Barrow  of  Wynthrop  in  Com’  Lincon .= 
Harl.  MS.  1560.  Roger  Barow,  Harl.  MS.  1552. 


John  Shelton,  Esq.,  of  Shelton, =r  Margaret,  da.  of  Sir  Robert 
Norfolk  ;  ob.  1431.  Inq.  9  H.  6.  I  Brewes,  of  Wenham  Parva. 


1.  Thom.  Barrow=f=Margerett  d.  of  William  2.  John,  a  Joane  vx 

of  Winthrop  in  I  Qoderick  of  Kirkhy  in  preest.  Cawood 

Com’  Lincon.  |  Com ’  Lincon.  of  Lowth. 

, _ l 


Catherine  vxWillm 
Masonn.  Maston, 
Harl.  MS.  1552. 


l - 1 

Sir  Ralph  Shelton.=j=Margaret,  da.  of  Robert 
Will,  33  Horne,  Clere,  of  Ormesby. 
P.C.C.  1497. 

_ _ i 


Thom’  Barrow  of  Ship-^Mary  d.  8f  coheire  of  Hen.  Bures  of  Acton  in  Sujf.  (who  ob.  1528),  Sir  John  Shelton, -p Anne,  da.  of  Sir  Wm. 


denham  in  Com’  Norff., 
and  of  Newton,  co. 
Suffolk.  He  ob.  1590. 


1.  Thomas  Barrow, 
ob.  s.p. 

4.  Edioard. 


ffrances,  d.  of  S'1  RoZ>= 
Wing f eld  of  Lether- 
ingham  inSuff.  1  wife. 
She  ob.  s.p. 


by  Anne,  da.  of  George  Waldegrave,  of  Smalbridge,  juxta  Bures, 
who  renupt.  Sir  Clement  Higham,  and  made  Will  4  July  24  Eliz., 
naming  her  son-in-law,  Thomas  Barrow. 


Knighted  1509,  ob. 
1539,  set.  62,  brass 
in  SheltonChurch. 


3.  Henery,  executed 
at  London  with  Rook- 
wood,  31  Jan.  160f. 


Bridgett  ux  John 
Claxton  of  Lever- 
mereandhad  son, 
Hamon  Claxton. 


- : - 1 — i 

Mary  vx  Ar-  Eliza- 
ther  Bellett  of  heth. 
Com’  Devon.  — 

5.  John. 


Boleyn,  by  Margaret, 
da.  of  Thomas  Boteler,. 
Duke  of  Ormond. 


Sir  John  Shelton,  High=pMargaret,  da.  of 


Sheriff  of  Norff.  1565. 
Will  14  Nov.  1558, 
P.C.C.  37  Welles. 


SirHenryParker, 
s.  &  h.  of  Henry, 
Lord  Morley. 


z2.  Will’m  Barrow  of=f=Elizdbeth  d.  of  Thom. 


Westhorp  in  Com ’ 
Suff.oh.24  Dec.  1613. 
Inq.  p.m.  12  Jas. 


Daundy  of  Creting- 
ham  in  Suff.  2  wife. 
Ob.  1634. 


Sir  Charles  Cornwallis,1 =Anne  Barrow,  mar.  at: 
2d  husband,  Ambassa-  Shelton  L570  ;  after,  2d 
dor  to  Spain,  1610  ;  died  wife  to  Sir  Chas.  Corn- 
1629.  wallis  ;  mar.  lie.  1585. 


Sr  Rafe  Shelton  of 
Com’  Norff.  1  husb. 
High  Sheriff  1570. 
Admon.  1582. 


Sir  James=f  Mary,  da.  and  eoh.  of  Sir: 


Poyntz,  of 
Ocken- 
don,  co. 
Essex. 


Richard  Smith,  of  Lon¬ 
don,  and  wid.  of  Sir  Jas. 
Poyntz.  She  ob.  1666. 


-1.  Morris  (Maurice)  Barrow,  of 
Bamingham,  co.  Suff,  Entered 
ped.  in  Visitation  1664.  His  cousin 
Maurice  Shelton  was  his  chief  heir. 


— i — n 
Elizeheth  Sf 
Jane,  s.p. 

ffrances. 


Henry  Shelton,  of  Shelton 
bap.  1577.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
N.,  18  Sept.  1635,  proved  in 
January  163  $. 


Richard  Poyntz,  of  Barningham  ; 
ob.  s.p.  vita  matris.  Will,  P.C.C. 
2  Rivers,  10  May  1643  ;  names  his 
father-in-law  Barrow. 


Maurice  Shelton,  of  Barningham  ;=pElizabeth,  dau.  of  Sir  Robert 


^Elizabeth,  da.  of 
Thos.  Jermyn,  of 
Depden,  co.  Suff. ; 
mar.  at  Shelton, 
7  April  1619. 


chief  heir  to  his  cousin  Maurice 
Barrow,  1665  ;  died  the  next  year 
bur.  at  Shelton,  Jan.  1666. 


Robert  Shelton,  3d  son, 


s.p.  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Richard  Bokenham, 
of  Weston,  -co.  Suffolk,  mar.  1692. 
His  Will,  P.C.C.  8  Oct.  1715,  proved 
9  Sept.  1723. 


Charles  Shelton,  4th  son  ;  ob. 
s.p. ;  bur.  at  Shelton,  1710. 

i - - - 

1.  Maurice  Shelton,  of  Barning-=f-Martha,  da.  of  Robt.  Apple- 


Kempe,  of  Gissing,  Bart., 
who  made  Will  1647 ;  she  was 
bur.  at  Shelton,  Dec.  1681. 


Sarah  Elizabeth  Shelton, mar. 

Shelton,  Edmund  Ferneley,  of 

living  Creting,  in  co.  Suffolk,. 

1634.  3d  s.  of  John  Ferneley. 


Mary,  wife  of  Thomas  Greene,  D.D., 
Rector  of  St.  Olave’s,  Old  Jewry. 
Their  son,  Dr.  Maurice  Greene,  or¬ 
ganist  of  St.  Paul’s,  ob.  1755. 


Jane,  wife  of  Waldegrave 
Alexander,  of  Bading- 
ham,  co.  Suff. ;  died  1719, 
&  was  bur.  at  Ubbeston. 


ham,  died  at  Mr.  Suckling’s 
house,  Norwich,  7  Oct.  1680; 
bur.  at  Shelton.  Will,  Dean  and 
C.  of  Norwich,  prob.  11  Nov. 


ton,  of  Gt.  Waldingfteld, 
Suffolk ;  ob.  1688.  She 
names  in  her  Will  her  sister 
Bokenham  and  Lady  Kemp. 


2.  Henry  Shelton,  of  Barn-- 
ingham,  bapt.  1654.  Will, 
P.C.C. ,23  April  1688,  proved 
16  Dec.  1690,  by  Robt. 
Suckling,  the  executor. 


:Hester,  only  dau.  of 
Sir  John  Church¬ 
man,  of  Illington, 
co.  Norfolk  ;  mar. 
lie.  30  Nov.  1682. 


Sarah  Shelton,  mar.  at 
Barningham,  16  Nov. 
1669, Robert  Suckling,  of 
Woodton.  HisWill,  Cur. 
Ep.  N.,  29  Sept.  1707. 


Martha,  sole  dau.  and 
heir,  mar.,  1688,  Lisle 
Hacket  of  Monksworth 
Hall,  co.  Warwick ; 
bur.  1691  at  Shelton. 


Arabella,  dau.  of  Sir 
John  Duke,  of  Benhall, 
co.  Suffolk  ;  mar.  1703  ; 
bur.  at  Shelton,  1716. 


-Maurice  Shelton,  of=Margaret,  dau.  of  Rev.= 
Barningham,  bapt.  John  Randall,  of  Bury 
1683.  Will,  Arch.  St.  Edmunds,  mar. 
Sudb.,  1746,  probt.  1724  ;  d.  1727  ;  bur.  in 
1749;  bur.  at  Shelton.  Barningham  Church. 


=Madam  Bridget  Mas¬ 
sey,  wid.  of  William 
Hale,  of  Bury  ;  mar. 
1727 ;  d.  1768  ;  bur. 
in  Coneywarton  Ch. 


Maurice  Suckling, 
D.D.,  godson  to 
Maurice  Shelton, 
mar.  Anne,  dau.  of 
SirCharlesTurner. 


Thomas  Taylor, =j=  Arabella  Shelton, =Baron  Pretyman, 


1st  husband 
died  1727.  Dairy 
MSS. 


sole  surviving 
child;  bap.  29  Nov. 
1709. 


of  Bacton,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk,  2d  husband ; 
d.  1758.  DavyMSS. 


Maurice  Suckling,  Capt. 
R.N.,  uncle  and  patron 
of  Lord  Nelson ;  mar. 
Mary  Walpole  &  d.  s.p. 


WilliamSuckling,  born  at 
Barsham,  1730 ;  mar.  and 
had  issue.  See  pedigree, 
page  205.  =f= 

A 


Catherine  Suckling,  mar. 
the  Rev.  Edmund  Nelson, 
and  had,  with  other  issue, 
Horatio,  Viscount  Nelson 
of  the  Nile. 


John  Reilly,  Esq.,= 
1st  husband. 


Maria  Rebecca  Taylor,  d.  8  April  1810,  set.  81.  Tablet=Richard  Dillon,  2d  husband  ;  buried  Arabella  Taylor,  mar. 
in  Westhorpe  Church,  where  she  is  buried.  at  Westhorpe.  Tablet  in  the  church,  to  William  Garrod, 

Esq.  Ob.  s.p. 


John  Shelton  Reilly,  buried  at  Westhorpe,  28  March  1769. 


Edward  Duke  Reilly,  bur.  at  Westhorpe,  1770. 


BARROW  OF  WESTHORPE. 


241 


l\o|ial  Besrcnts-lUmpf,  ^urlUtug,  kelson. 


Henry  III,  King  of  England;  died  at  Bury=pEleanor,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Raymond  Berenger, 
St.  Edmunds  1272.  Count  of  Provence. 


i - ;  1 

Edmund  Crouchback,  Earl  of  Lan-=j=Blanche,  dau.  of  Robert,  Count  of  Artois  ;  Edward  I,  King  of  England  ;=j=Eleanor,  dau.  of  Ferdin- 


caster  ;  bur.  in  Westminster  Abbey. 


Queen  Dowager  of  Navarre. 


1272—1307. 


and,  King  of  Castile. 


Henry,  Earl  of=pMaud,  da.  and  heir  The  Princess  Joan  of-=f  Gilbert  de  Clare,  Earl  of  Edward  II,  Kingof  Eng-=j=Isabella,  dau.  of  Phi- 


Lancaster,  ob. 
1345. 


of  Sir  Patrick  Cha-  Acre,  2d  wife  ;  mar. 


worth. 


1289. 


Gloucester ;  ob.  1295. 


land ;  born  1284,  died 
1327. 


lip  the  Fair,  King  of 
France. 


Lady  Eleanor  Plan-=j=  Richard  Fitz  Eleanor,  sister  and  coh.  of=j=Hugh  le  Despencer,  Edward  III,  King  of=f=Philippa,  da.  of  William, 


tagenet,  3d  dau., 
mar.  1st  John,  Lord 
Beaumont. 


Alan,  Earl  of 
Arundel,  2d 
hush.,  K.G 


Gilbert  deClare ;  mar.1306. 


executed  1326. 


England,  1327-77. 


Count  of  Hainault. 


Philip  le  Despencer,  4th=fMargaret,  dau.  &  heir  Thomas  of  Woodstock, =j=Eleanor,  dau.  of  Hum 


son ;  1st  husb.;  ob.  1334. 


I 


Sir  John  Fitz  Alan, =f  Eleanor,  dau. 


of  Ralph  Goushill. 


6th  son,  Duke  of  Glou¬ 
cester. 


phrey  de  Bohun,  Earl 
of  Northampton. 


younger  son  ;  Lord 
Maltravers,  jure  ux- 
oris. 


and  heir  of 
Lord  Maltra- 


Philip  le  Despencer,  ob.  1350,  23  Ed-=j=Joan 
ward  III.  Strange. 


Anne  Plantagenet,  da.=pWilliam  Bourchier,  3d 


and  coh.,  widow  of  Ed¬ 
ward,  Earl  of  Stafford. 


husb.,  Count  of  Eu. 


Sir  Thomas  Fitz  Alan,  3d=j=Joane. 
son,  of  Beechworth  Castle, 
in  Surrey. 


Philip  le  Despencer,  summoned  to=pMargaret 
Parliament  1387.  I  Cobham. 


John  Bourchier,  Lord=rMargery,  dau.  and  heir 


Berners,  K.G., 
son ;  ob.  1474. 


4th 


Sir  Philip  Spencer,  of=pElizabeth,  dau.  and  heir 


of  Sir  Richard  Berners. 


Eleanor  Fitz=pSir  Tho. Browne, Trea- 


Nettlestead,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk,  jure  uxoris. 


of  Sir  Roger  de  Tibetoft, 
1st  wife. 


Alan,  dau.  & 
heir. 


surer  of  the  household 
to  King  Henry  VI. 


Margaret  Spencer,  sole=pSir  Roger  Wentworth, 


Lady  Johanna=pSir  Henry  Nevill,  slain,  vita 
Bourchier.  patris,  in  the  battle  of  Edgcot, 
9  Edward  IV. 


dau.  and  heir;  widow 
of  Lord  Roos. 


of  Nettlestead,  jure  ux¬ 
oris,  2d  husband. 


Sir  Richard  Nevill,  2d  Lord=rAnne,  dau.  of  Sir 


Sir  Geo.  Browne,  of^pElizabeth,  da.  Henry  Wentworth,  of=j=Elizabeth,  1st  wife,  da. 


Latimer  ;  ob.  1530. 


Beechworth,  jure 
matris,  High  Sheriff 
of  Kent  1481. 


of  Sir  William 
Paston. 


Codham,  co.  Essex,  2d 
son. 


and  coh.  of  Henry 
Howard,  Esq. 


Humphrey  Staf¬ 
ford. 


Sir  John  Nevill,  3d  Lord-f=Lady  Dorothy  “de 


Margery=FSirWilliam  Waldegrave,  of  Small- 


Went  worth. 


bridge,  co.  Suffolk. 


Latimer.  CatherineParr 
his  2d  w.,  m.  Henry  VIII. 


Vere,  dau.  and  coh.of 
John,  Earl  of  Oxford. 


Sir  Matt. Browne, =pFrideswide,  dau.  George  Waldegrave,  -p  Anne,  da.  of  Sir  Ro-  Sir  John  Nevill,  4th=f  Lucy  Somerset,  dau.  of 


High  Sheriff  of 
Surrey  1496. 


of  Sir  Richard 
Guildford,  K.G. 


of  Smallbridge  juxta 
Bures,  co.  Suff. 


bert  Drury,  of  Haw- 
stead,  co.  Suff. 


Lord  Latimer. 


Henry,  Earl  of  Worces¬ 
ter. 


B 


242 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


B 

_ i 


Hen. Browne, Esq. ,=j=Catherine,  dau. 
ofBeech  worth ;  ob. 
vita  patris. 


Anne,  sister  of  Sir=rHenry  de  Bures,  of  Ac-  Dorothy  Nevill,= 


of  Sir  Wm. Shel¬ 
ley,  2d  wife. 

William  Waldegrave, 
who  ob.  1554. 

ton,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq. 

dau.  and  coh. ; 
ob.  1608. 

r 

i - 1 

Thomas  Cecil,  E.  of  Exeter  : 
son  of  Lord  Burleigh,  brother 
of  the  E.  of  Salisbury. 


Sir  Thos. Browne, =pMabel,  da.  and  h. 
of  Beec.hworth 
Kt. 


=Thos.  Barrow,  of 


of  Sir  Wm.  Fitz- 
William. 

She  renupt  Sir  Clem.  Heigh- 
am,  and  made  Will  24  Eliz. 

Newton,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk  ;  ob.  1590. 

Cecil.1 

J 

J 

heath,  great  grandson  and  heir 
of  “  Old  Sir  Giles,”  1586. 


Sir  Matt.Browne,=j=Jane,  dau.  of  Sir  Anne  Barrow.  She  re-=j=Sir  Ralph  Shelton, High  Susan  Allington,  2d- 


of  Beechworth 
Castle. 

Thomas  Vincent.  nupt  Sir  Charles  Corn¬ 
wallis. 

Sheriff  of  Norfolk;  ob.  wife  ;  remar.  Isaac  Ap- 
1582.  pleton. 

r~ 

Jane,  sister  of= 
Amb.  Browne, 
High  Sheriff  of 
Surrey  1624-5. 

r 

r 

-Sir  Robt.  Kempe,  Henry  Shelton,  Esq.= 
1st  Bart.,  of  Gis-  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
sing,  co.  Norfolk  ;  1635. 

ob.  1647. 

i 

pElizabeth,dau.of  Thos.  Susan  Crane,  3d  dau.=j 
Jermyn,  of  Depden,  and  coh.  ;  mar.  1649. 
Suffolk ;  mar.  1619. 

— .  r - 

Sir  Robert  Crane,  of 
Chilton,  co.  Suffolk, 
Bart. 


K.B.,  of  Houghton, 
Norfolk;  ob.  1667. 


Sir  Robert  Kempe,  2d  Bart.,  of 
Ubbeston,  co.  Suffolk,  jure  ux- 
oris  Mary  Sone. 


Elizabeth  Kempe  ;  she  was=j=Maurice  Shelton,  of  Bar-  Robert  Walpole,  of^=Mary,  da.  and  h.  of  Sir 


bur.  at  Shelton 
1681. 


Dec. 


mingham,  co.  Suffolk. 


Houghton,  Norfolk  ; 
ob.  1700. 


Jeffrey  Burwell,  of  Roug- 
ham,  Suffolk. 


Robert  Suckling,  Esq.,  High  Sheriff1 
of  Norfolk,  1701. 


=Sarah  Shelton ; 
1669,  ob.  1695. 


Sir  Charles  Turner,  of  WarhamppMary,  sister  of  Robert  Walpole, 
co.  Norff.,  Bart.;  ob.  1738.  Earl  of  Orford;  she  ob.  1768. 


Robert  Suckling,  son  and  h.,  of=pDorothy 
Woodton,  Norff.,  and  Barsham, 

Suffolk ;  b.  1763. 


Col.  Shelton  Suckling,  of  Col.  John  Suckling,  Maurice  Suckling, =p Anne  Turner,  bur. 

in  Barsham  chancel 
1768. 


Bel-ney,  Shipmeadow  Hall,  Suffolk  ;  b.  1689 ;  mar.  Anne  D.D., Rector  of  Bar- 
mar.  1700.  b.  1675.  Berney.  sham,  co.  Suffolk. 


A 


William  Suckling,  b.  1730,=pElizabeth 
ancestor  of  the  Sucklings  Browne, 
of  Hampshire.  1st  wife. 


Maurice  Suckling,  Capt.- 
R.N.,  Comptroller  of  the 
Navy,  1778;  ob.  s.p. 


=Mary,  dau.  of  Horatio, 
Lord  Walpole ;  mar. 
1764,  ob.  1766. 


Rev.  Edmund  Nelson, =pCatherine  Suckling, 


Rector  of  Burnham 
Thorpe,  co.  Norff. 


A 


bn.  at  Barsham  1725  ; 
mar.  1749. 


William  Nelson,  D.D.,  born- 
1787  ;  created  1st  Earl  Nel¬ 
son,  1806 ;  bur.  in  St.  Paul’s 
Cathedral,  1835. 


Sarah,  1st  wife, 
da.  of  Rev.  Hen. 
Young ;  mar. 
1785,  ob.  1828. 


Horatio  Nelson,  Viscount 
Nelson  of  the  Nile  ;  born 
1758 ;  killed  at  Trafalgar, 
1805 ;  bur.  in  St.  Paul’s 
Cathedral ;  ob.  s.p. 


Susanna  Nelson,  born= 
1753  ;  mar.  1780;  mo¬ 
ther  of  Thomas,  2d 
Earl  Nelson. 


A 


Thomas  Bolton,  of 
Wells,  co.  Norfolk  ; 
born  at  Codden- 
ham,  co.  Suff.,  1752. 


- 1 

Catherine  Nelson, 
born  1767 ;  mar. 
George  Matcham  ; 
she  ob.  1842. 


A 


1  “  1  make  the  righte  honorable  and  my  verie  good  lord,  the  lord  Burghlie,  lord  highe  Treasurer  of  england  [my 
supervisor],  most  humblie  beseechinge  his  honor,  for  the  dutie,  love  and  good  will  that  1  haue  eu’  borne  vnto  him,  and  for 
the  great  attiaun’ce  that  I  haue  that  Giles  Alington,  my  yonge  nephew  and  now  my  heire  apparent,  should  match  in  his 
Lordshippes  howse  with  one  of  the  daughters  of  his  Lordshippes  sonne  and  heire,  Sir  Thomas  Cecill,  Knight ;  that  he  will 
not  only  be  aidinge  vnto  my  executors  in  the  due  execucion  of  this  my  Testament,  but  allso  that  his  Lordshippe  will  haue 
a  speciall  care  to  bringe  the  said  marriage  to  passe;  and  duringe  the  minoritie  of  my  said  heire  to  see  his  woodes  pre- 
serued,  his  howses  well  repaired,  and  his  poore  tennaun’tes  vyell  and  charitablie  ordered.” 

From  the  will  of  Sir  Giles  Allington,  1586.  P.C.C.  49  Windsor. 


Jrnnmt  of  Husljbroofe. 


Jlrmorial  Sea rings. 

The  arms  which  accompany  the  Jermyn  pedigree  in  Harl.  MS.  1560  are  Quarterly  of  niner 
1,  Jermyn,  Sable  a  crescent  between  two  mullets  in  pale  Argent;  2,  Rushbrook,  Gules  (Burke 
says  Sable)  a  fess  between  three  roses  Or ;  3,  Heveningham,  Per  cross  Or  and  Gules ;  on  a 
bordure  engrailed  Sable  eight  escallops  Argent ;  4,  Jarvile,  Paly  of  six  Or  and  Azure  ;  5.  Gissing, 
Argent  on  a  bend  Azure  three  eagles  displayed  Or ;  6,  Redesham,  Argent,  semee  of  fleurs  de  lys 
Gules  ;  7,  Reppes,  Ermine  three  chevrons  Gules  (Sable,  Burke)  ;  8,  Burgon,  Azure  a  hound  passant 
Argent ;  9,  Bozun,  Gules  (Sable,  Burke)  three  bird  bolts  in  fess  Argent. 

These  arms,  the  third  quartering  excepted,  appear  upon  the  monument  in  Rushbrook  church 
to  Thomas  Jermyn  Esqr,  who  died  in  1659.  When  Anne,  the  daughter  of  George  Heveningham, 
married  Sir  Ambrose  Jermyn,  she  added,  as  coheiress,  the  shields  of  Heveningham,  Jarvill,  Gissing, 
Redesham,  Reppes,  Burgon  and  Bozun  to  the  family  escutcheon. 

The  Crest  in  Harl.  MS.  1560  is  a  greyhound  passant  Argent,  collared  Or  and  eared  Sable. 
Two  variants  are  given  in  Burke’s  Armoury ;  a  greyhound’s  head  Sable  gorged  with  a  bar  gemelle 
Or ;  and  a  greyhound’s  head  proper  collared  Or. 

In  his  “  Rushbrook  Parish  Registers,”  the  Rev  Sydenham  H.  A.  Hervey  has  given  us  a 
delightful  history  of  the  Jermyns,  absolutely  readable,  with  endless  quotations  from  the  quaint  yet 
racy  manuscripts  upon  which  it  is  founded.  He  has  added  the  wills  and  many  portraits  of  the 
knights,  the  gentlemen,  the  esquires  and  the  peers  who  form  the  main  line  of  this  most  interesting 
family.  The  illustrations  of  Rushbrook  Hall,  the  fine  old  mansion  which  the  Jermyns  built,  add 
greatly  to  the  value  of  the  work. 

Like  most  early  descents,  the  pedigree  in  Harl.  MS.  1560,  said  to  be  based  upon  the 
Registers  of  the  Abbey  of  St.  Edmundsbury,  is  largely  conjectural.  That  the  families  of  Jermyn 
and  Rushbrook  were  closely  connected  is  rendered  probable  by  Rushbrook  wills  and  fines.  It 
would  almost  seem  that  the  John  Rushbrook,  who  calls  Jane  Jermyn  his  cousin  in  1514,  was 
identical  with  the  attorney  who  acted  for  Thomas  Jermyn  when  he  purchased  bis  Rushbrook 
estates.  These  and  other  evidences  which  we  subjoin,  relating  to  the  undoubted  descendants  of  this 
Thomas  Jermyn,  are  supplementary  to  those  printed  by  Mr.  Hervey. 


JFiiu,  S>ir  William  JUtsIjbrnoh,  1560. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Reg  apud  Westm  in  octavis  Sci  Johis  Bapte  anno 
regni  Edwardi  Reg  Angl  ?cij  a  conquestu  tricesimo  ?cio,  coram  Robto  de  Thorp,  Hen?  Grene  [(fee.] 
Justic  4  alijs  dni  Reg  fidelibj  tunc  ibi  jjsentibj.  In?  Willfh  de  Russhebrok  militem  4  Jofinam 
vx!em  eius  quer  &  Johera  de  Cauendyssfi,  Micfiem  Bures,  Radm  de  .  .  .  h  Withn  de  Rokelound 
deforc  de  Manlio  de  Russhebrok  enm  ptin.  Vnde  pltin  conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos.  Scilt  qd  jJdcus 

2  G2 


244 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Wifts  de  Russhebrok  recogii  [idem  Man! m  esse  ius  ipius  Jobis  vt  ittud  quod  ijdem  Jobes,  Michael, 
Rad  us  &  Wittm  de  Rokelound  bent  de  dono  [idci  Witti  de  Russhebrok,  et  p  hac  recogn  Jobes, 
Michael  Radus  Wittus  concesserunt  [ideis  Witto  de  Russhebrok  &  Jobne  |9dcam  MaSm.  Et 
post  decessum  ipor^  Witti  et  Jobne  [idem  man! in  integre  remanebit  Witto  fit  eordem  Witti  de 
Russhebrok  &  Johan  &  her  masciis  de  corpe  suo.  Et  si  contingent  qd  idem  Witts  fit  fidcor  Witti  T 
Jobne  obierit  sine  her  masclo  de  corpe  suo,  tunc  post  decessum  pdci  Willi  [idem  maSrn  remanebit 
.Jobi  fri  eiusdem  Witti  fit  pdcor^  Witti  de  Russhebrok  &  Johnam  &  her  masetis  de  corpe  suo 
imppfh.  Et  si  contingeat  qd  idem  Jobes  frater  Witti  obierit  sine  her  maseto  de  corpe  suo  tunc 
post  decessm  ipius  Jobis  [idem  man!  in  integre  reman  rectis  her  [idci  Willi  de  Russhebrok 
imppm.  Suff.  Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  33  Edward  III,  No.  16. 


SffitxII  of  Militant  Kttsljlirook,  1583. 

Memorandu  qd  die  Mercur  prox  post  festrn  sci  Petri  ad  uincia  anno  regni  Reg  RicT  sedi 
post  conquestu  septimo,  vltia  voluntas  Witti  de  Russhebrook  militis.  Itih  qd  fratres  de  Babewelle 
beant  x  marc  ad  celebrand  p  aia  matris  eius  ....  Itfh  qd  Alic  Markeshale  beat  centii  solid 
.  .  .  .  Et  qam  cito  quod  vltima  voluntas  sit  pfecta  &  debita  eius  sint  persoluta,  qd  tunc  feoffati 
facient  Thorn  fit  suo  statu  de  MaSio  de  Russhebrook  sibi  &  hered  sius  de  corpore  suo  exeunt. 
Et  si  obierit  anteqbn  sic  feoffat  vel  sine  hered  de  corpore,  qd  tunc  Maneriu  de  Russhebrook  & 
omia  at  terr  &  ten  in  Russhebrook,  Welnetham  magn  &  parua,  Rougham,  Monkebradefeld  &  alibi 
vendanf  &  distribuantr  p  aiabj  prin  &  mrm  ac  ommium  beneficor^  suor£.  Itm  vult  &  concedit 
qd  si  Alic  filia  supvixerit  eu  qd  heat  tota  camera  sua  cu  toto  apparatu  ad  cameram  spectan 
et  qd  heat  omia  foculia  sua.  Itin  jidcus  Wiltms  vult  qd  feoffati  ipius  Witti  feoffent  Robtin  Cook 
ik  Joham  vxorem  eius  ad  ?mih  vite  eoru  in  vno  ten  in  quo  inhabitant.  Probat  fuit  istud  testm 
apud  Norwicu  Oflac  dni  Epi  xviij°  die  Decemb  anno  domini  Mifto  CCCmo  octogessimo  tcio  &  com 
est  admin  omn  bonor^  (fee.  Nicbo  Drury  et  Thome  Germyn  exec  in  dco  testo  noiat. 

Regis trum  Harsyke  in  Archiuo  Registrarii  Norwicensis,  fo.  14a, 

Harl.  MS.,  10,  fo.  128. 


JltargarEt,  ImDoiu  of  8l]omas  Sermon,  1431. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Regis  apud  Westm  anno  regno r <5  Hen?  Regis  Angt 
Sexti  a  conquestu  nono,  Coram  Witto  Babyngton  [&c.]  Justic  tunc  ibi  [iseutibj.  In?  Wittm  Ippyng 
T  Jobem  Chamber  que?  et  Margaretam  que  fuit  vx  Thome  Germyn  Armig,  Wittm  Ram  T 
Alianoram  v2em  eius  4  Valentinii  Baylyf  Armig1  iu in  T  Annam  v5em  eius  deforc  de  vno  mesuagio, 
centum  T  sexaginta  acri  t?e,  sex  acris  prati  [&c.]  in  Rasshbroke,  Rougham,  Neweton  T  Bury  Sci 
Edi.  Vnde  plitin  conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cuf  Scitt  qd  pdei  Margareta,  Witts 
Ram  [Ac.]  recogn  [idea  ten  rt  redditr  esse  Jus  ipius  Witti  Ippyng.  Et  p  hac  recogn  ijdem  Witts 
T  Jobes  concesserunt  [idee  Margarete  [idea  ten  [&c.]  hend  T  tenend  eidem  Margarete  que  fuit 
vx  Thome  Germyn  tota  vita  ipius  Margarete.  Et  post  decessum  ipius  Margarete  [idea  ten  integre 
remanebunt  fidcis  Witto  Ram  T  Alianore  T  her  ipius  Alianore  de  corpore.  Et  si  contingat  qd 
eadem  Alianora  obierit  sine  her  de  corpore  suo  tunc  post  decessum  ipor<j  Witti  Ram  T  Alianore 
[idea  ten  T  reddit  remanebunt  jidcis  Valentino  T  Anne. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  7 — 11  Hen  :  6,  No.  18. 


JERMYN  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


245 


Smjmsitions  on  tljc  tioatb  of  ®komas  Jlmttmt,  1505. 

By  an  Inquisition  taken  at  Swafham  Market,  in  Norfolk,  14th  May  21  H.  7,  it  was  found 

that  a  long  time  before  the  death  of  Thomas  Jermyn  named  in  the  brief  a  certain  Thomas  Darell 

* 

was  seized  of  the  Manor  of  Marham  in  the  same  county.  By  a  charter,  which  was  produced  in 
evidence,  he  settled  this  to  the  use  of  the  said  Thomas  Jermyn,  and  to  fulfil  the  intention  of 
his  last  will.  It  was  found  too  that  Thomas  Leeffe  and  Robert  Rolff,  who  were  seized  of  the 
Manor  of  Barowes  and  lands  in  West  Toftes,  co.  Norfolk,  by  their  charter,  also  produced,  enfeoffed 
them  to  Thomas  Jermyn  aforesaid.  Afterwards,  on  the  12th  of  January  1496,  Thomas  Jermyn 
made  his  will  at  Rushbrook,  devising  Manors  and  lands  to  his  executors  for  thirteen  years ;  the 
Manor  of  Marham  then  passing  to  Robert  Jermyn  and  Francis  Jermyn  his  sons  for  their  lives, 
with  remainder  to  Beatrice  and  Anastacia  Dorell,  the  daughters  and  heirs  of  the  abovenamed 
Thomas  Darell;  whilst  the  Manor  of  Barowes  and  the  lands  in  West  Tofts  were  to  devolve  on 
St.  Michael’s  Day  1506  upon  Thomas  Jermyn,  his  eldest  son.  Marham  was  held  of  the  King, 
as  of  his  Honour  of  Hagenet,  and  Barowes  and  the  West  Tofts  lands  of  the  Priory  of  Thetford. 
Thomas  Jermyn  the  father  died  on  the  tenth  of  October  last  past,  and  Thomas  Jermyn  his  son 
and  heir  was  then  of  the  age  of  twenty  three  years. 

Inquisitions  Post  Mortem,  C.,  Vol.  19,  96. 

At  a  similar  Inquisition  taken  in  Suffolk  in  the  same  year,  it  was  deposed  that  Thomas 
Jermyn  had  died  possessed  of  lands  and  tenements  in  lx  worth  and  Brorne  held  of  the  Priory 
of  Ixworth ;  a  piece  of  land  in  Bury  St.  Edmunds  called  Greenehough ;  lands  in  Oakley  held  of 
the  Abbey  of  Bury ;  lands  in  Hoxne  held  of  the  Bishop  of  Norwich ;  lands  in  Thurston  held  of 
John  Wodell ;  a  tenement  called  Harvies  held  of  the  Prior  of  Thetford ;  and  a  third  part  of 
the  Manor  of  Braham  held  of  the  King  as  of  his  Honour  of  Clare.  His  will  is  mentioned  in 
part;  but  the  document  is  much  defaced,  and  is  in  places  altogether  illegible. 

Inquisitions  Post  Mortem,  C.,  Yol.  19,  No.  95. 


Mill  of  foljn  Kuskbrook,  1514. 

Jobes  Rushbrook  de  Gip00  generosus  die  Sabbti  px  ah  fest  Sci  Valentini  mcccccxiiii0.  To  be 
buried  in  the  church  of  St.  Peter  in  Ipswich.  Masses  to  be  sung  for  the  soules  of  Anne  and 
Agnes  my  wiffes.  Vnto  my  brother  Dom  Wiftm  a  monke  at  St.  Albons.  To  my  cosen  Anne 
Polley  ye  doughter  of  Simond  Polley  &  to  Anne  ye  doughter  Edmond  Polley.  To  my  cosen 
Jane  Jarmyn.  My  landes  in  Coombes  to  my  ii  doughters,  to  them,  their  husbouds  &  their 
children.  My  old  ffrend  Edmond  Gelget  to  be  executor.  Probatum  xvi°  die  mensis  Maij 
mcccccxiiij0.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  Lib  “Spirlinge,”  No.  5. 


SStxll  of  HaiokOTt,  1567* 

The  ffirste  daye  of  December  1567,  Edmunde  Hawkeryt  of  Rushbroke  in  the  Countye  of  Suff. 
yeoman.  To  the  children  of  Erne  my  sister,  late  wife  of  Thomas  Grene  of  Kyrkbye  in  the  Countye 
of  Yorke,  tenne  poundes.  To  the  said  Thomas  Agreene  ffortye  shillinges.  To  the  poore  beade- 


246 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


men  of  Boston  and  others  of  the  most  poorest  of  the  same  towne  ffortye  shillings.  I  bequeathe 
vnto  my  Mr,  Sr  Ambrose  Jermyn,  Knyght,  tenne  poundes,  and  to  my  good  Lad ye  and  mystresse, 
wife  of  the  same  Sir  Ambrose,  tenne  poundes.  To  Ede  Jermyn  Esquier,  John  Jermyn  Esquier, 
Mary  Lucas,  gentelwoman,  wief  of  Thomas  Lucas  gent.,  Bridgett  Crane  wyfe  of  Robarte  Crane 
of  Chylton  Esquier,  Elizabeth  Playter,  *  wief  of  Thomas  Plater  of  Satterly  Esquier,  Anne  Nonne 
wief  of  ffraunces  Nonne  of  Martlesham  esquier,  Agnese  Copynger  wief  of  Henry  Copynger  of 
Buxhall  Esquier,  and  Martha  Heigh m  gent  of  Denhm,  wyddowe,  children  of  my  olde  Mr  Sr 
Thomas  Jermyn,  Knyghte,  deceased,  to  euery  of  them  as  one  theire  heddes,  tenne  shillinges,  for 
a  remembrance.  I  bequeathe  to  Thomas  Jermyn  gent,  one  other  of  the  childrenne  of  my  olde 
Mr,  syxtene  poundes,  and  ifower  poundes  that  he  dothe  owe  me.  To  Robte  Jermyn,  Ambrose 
Jermyne,  George  Jermyne,  Ede  Jermyn,  Anthonye  Jermyn,  Wilim  Jermyne,  Anne  Jermyn,  wief 
of  Wilim  Tendall  Esquier,  Susan  Jermyne,  wyef  of  Lyonell  Tallamache  gent,  Dorothe  Jermyne 
wyef  of  Edwarde  Ducke  gent,  Margaret  Jermyn,  Hester  Jermyn,  and  ffrniices  Jermyn,  children 
of  the  saide  Sir  Ambrose,  my  maister,  and  to  euerye  of  them  as  on  theire  heddes,  tenne 
shillinges.  (Numerous  bequests  to  Sir  Ambrose  Jermyn’s  servants  at  Rush  brook,  Bradfield  S1  Clare 
and  Horningsherthe  follow,  and  to  the  poorest  people  in  Burye  Sfc  Ede,  Rosebroke  and  other  townes, 
and  to  the  prisoners  in  Burye  Gayale.)  The  resedewe  of  all  my  goodes,  plate,  Jewelles  and  readie 
money  my  verrye  minde  and  will  is  shalbe  distributed  amongest  the  poore  by  thaduise  of  Sr 
Ambrose  Jermyn  my  Mr,  whome  I  hartelye  desyre  to  be  Supuisor  of  this  my  Testamente  and 
laste  will.  I  make  myne  Executor  mv  ffrende  Richarde  Robinsone.  Probatum  apud  London,  vice- 
simo  die  ffebruarij  1567.  P.C.C.  5  Babington. 


Inquisition  on  tb t  Dratlj  of  S>ix  Jlntbrose  Jn*ntgn,  1577. 

By  his  Inquisition  taken  at  Bury  9th  Aug.  19th  Elizabeth,  it  was  found  that  Sir  Ambrose 
Jermyn,  long  before  his  decease,  had  held  the  Manor  of  Rushbrook  in  Suffolk,  with  twenty 
messuages,  ten  tofts,  four  hundred  acres  of  arable  land,  &c.,  which  Thomas  Jermyn  (his  grand¬ 
father)  by  John  Rushbrook  his  attorney,  had  purchased  of  Henry  Tey  and  Margaret  his  wife.  He 
had  also  held  the  Manor  of  Little  Whelnetham  which  Robert  Sexteyn  had  bought  of  John 
Awdeley  and  then  passed  on  to  him.  The  said  Thomas  Jermyn,  by  his  will  dated  6th  July,  1503, 
devised  Little  Whelnetham  to  Thomas  Jermyn  his  son,  with  remainder,  failing  heirs  male  of  their 
bodies,  successively  to  Robert  Jermyn  and  Francis  Jermyn  his  sons,  and  to  his  next  heirs  without 
end  He  died  on  the  6th  day  of  July  aforesaid.  By  a  statute  of  uses  at  Westminster  4th  Feb. 
27th  Henry  VIII,  the  Manor  of  Rushbrook,  previously  held  by  trustees,  was  transferred  to  Thomas 
Jermyn,  then  a  Knight,  the  son  of  the  testator.  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn  died  13th  Octr,  7th  Edward  VI, 
and  the  premises  descended  to  Sir  Ambrose  Jermyn  as  his  son  and  heir.  Sir  Ambrose  acquired 
the  Advowson  of  Rushbrook  by  feoffment  of  William  Cordell  Esqr,  Solicitor  General  of  King  Philip 
and  Queen  Mary.  He  was  seized  too  of  the  Manors  of  Bradfield  Combust,  called  Bradfield  Hall, 
of  Stanton  and  Mykellfelde  Hall,  and  of  Berdewell  Hall,  which  came  to  him  on  his  father’s  death. 
He  bought  the  Manor  of  Hepworth,  with  foldage  and  free  warren  in  the  parishes  around,  of 
William  Spring  Esqre ;  and  the  Manors  of  Brent  Illeigli  and  Fenhall,  with  twenty  messuages  in 
Lavenham,  Preston,  Kettlebarston,  Myldinge,  Monkes  Iileigh  and  Waldingfield  Parva,  which  he  bought 
of  William  Humberston  Esqre.  He  inherited  from  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn  his  father  the  Manors  of 
Old  Hall  and  Le  Hoo,  the  woods  called  Bromeley  Wood,  Le  Wood,  Oldehall  Wood,  Burye  Wood 


JERMYN  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


247 


and  Howe  Wood  and  foldage  in  Rougham,  Eldawe,  Barton  juxta  Bury  and  Bury  St.  Edmunds. 
He  owned  the  Manor  of  Wattlesfield,  the  woods  called  Croftewood,  Bryan’s  Wood,  and  the  Manors 
of  Gyffords  and  Hallymote  which  he  had  lately  bought  of  The  Most  Serene  Prince  Henry  VIII. 
King  of  England  and  Philip  and  Mary,  late  King  and  Queen ;  also  rnesuages  called  Bateleys 
and  Baxters,  bought  of  Thomas  Jermyn  Esqre,  and  Syclesmere  Meadow  containing  thirty  acres 
in  the  fields  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Nowton  and  Whelnetham  Parva,  which  he  had  bought  of 
Mary,  late  Queen  of  England,  and  gardens  and  pastures  in  Bury.  He  bought  the  Manor  of 
Redymere  in  Feltwell,  Sothery  and  Helgay  in  Norfolk,  and  a  thousand  acres  of  marsh  land  in 
Lakenhay  in  Suffolk.  He  purchased  the  Scite  of  the  late  dissolved  Priory  of  St.  Leonard  of 
Torkesey  in  Lincolnshire  of  Dame  Elizabeth  Chambleyne  and  Fitzraphe  Chambleyne  her  son  ; 
and  the  Manors  of  Spynney  and  Wyken  in  Cambridgeshire  of  Charles  Somerset  Esqr.  He  was 
seized  moreover  of  the  Manors  of  Bradfield  St.  George  and  Bradfield  St.  Clere,  which,  in 
consideration  of  a  marriage  between  Lady  Margaret  Stanley,  one  of  the  daughters  of  Edward, 
Earl  of  Derby,  K.G.,  and  John  Jermyn  Esqr  his  son  and  heir,  he  settled,  14th  Nov.  8th  Elizth 
upon  trustees  for  their  use  during  their  lives,  and  the  heirs  males  of  their  bodies  after  them. 
The  said  John  Jermyn  died  without  issue  on  the  9ch  March  following,  and  Lady  Margaret,  his 
widow,  was  yet  living  at  Rushbrook  Sir  Ambrose  Jermyn  also  held  the  Manors  of  Little  Hornings- 
herth  in  Suffolk ;  the  moiety  of  the  Manor  of  Caxton  in  Cambridgeshire ;  the  Manor  of  Bacons 
in  Essex;  the  Manors  of  Thorpe  Hall  West  Toftes,  Hockham,  West  Wretham  and  Thomson  in 
Norfolk ;  and  lands,  parcell  of  the  Manor  called  Mr  Steven’s  Manor,  which  he  bought  of  Robert 
Ashfield  Esq1'.  He  made  a  will,  devising,  amongst  other  things,  the  Manor  or  Capital  Mesuage  of 
Little  Horriuger  to  the  Lady  Dorothye  Jermyn  his  wife,  and  died  at  Rushbrook  on  the  fifth 
of  April  in  the  19th  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  Robert  Jermyn  Esqr,  his  son  and  heir  being  of 
the  age-  of  thirty  eight  years.  Nearly  all  these  lands  and  manors  were  held  of  the  King. 

Inq.  p.  m.  Wards  &  Liveries,  19th  Elizth.  No.  143. 


Mill  of  1597* 

The  seauenth  daie  of  December  1597  I  Edmund  Jermin  of  Sturson  in  the  countie  of  Norff, 
gentleman  make  this  my  Testament  and  last  will.  I  giue  vnto  Elizabeth  Jermin  my  eldest 
daughter  five  hundred  poundes  when  she  shall  accomplish  her  full  age  of  xxi  yeeres.  Vnto  Judith 
Jermin  my  second  daughter  five  hundred  markes.  Vnto  John  Jermin  my  second  sonne  yearely 
xiijii  vis  viid  rent  charge  out  of  my  Mannor  of  Hockham  in  Norff.  Vnto  Edmond  Jermin,  Ambrose 
Jermin,  Thomas  Jermin,  Talmache  Jermin,  Clement  Jermin  and  George  Jermin  my  sonnes  and 
to  euerie  of  them  a  severall  Annuitie  of  tenne  poundes  per  annum  rent  charge  out  of  my  saide 
Mannor  of  Hockeham.  My  will  is  that  William  Jermin  gent,  my  sonne  and  heire  apparent,  shall 
paie  all  my  debtes  (and  legacies)  out  of  the  issues  of  my  Mannors  and  landes.  I  doe  ordeine 
Dorothie  my  welbeloued  wife  sole  Executrice,  and  further  will  that  (she)  shall  yeerelie  receiue  all 
the  seuerall  Annuities  above  giuen  vnto  my  saide  sonnes  John,  Edmond,  Ambrose,  Thomas, 
Talmache,  Clement  and  George  for  the  bringinge  vp  of  them  vntill  they  shall  seuerallie  accomplishe 
theire  full  ages  of  xxi  yeeres.  Probatum  penultimo  die  Januarij,  1597,  Juramento  procurators 
Dorothee  Relicte  et  Executricis  dicti  defunct. 


P.C.C.  3  Lewyn. 


248 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Snijxnsitxon  on  tl )t  kail)  of  William  frnnun,  1606. 

Norff :  Inquis  capta  xi°  die  Junij  an  iiij0  Jacob  Reg  Angt  ad  inquirend  post  mortem 
Wittmi  Jermyn  nup  de  Sturson  Af  p  sacrament  Thome  Beamys,  Johis  Athill  [Ac.].  Qui  dicunt 
qd  pdcus  Wiftus  Jermyn  fuit  seitus  de  Maner  de  Sturson ;  ac  de  messuag  A  terr  in  Sturson, 
Stamford  et  Toddington ;  ac  de  Maner  de  West  Toftes  als  Barrowes ;  ac  de  messuag  et  quad- 
raginta  acris  terr,  et  in  octoginta  acris  terr  in  West  Toftes  voc  the  Noones  groundes  in  West 
Toftes  nup  pcella  possessionis  Moniai  de  Thetford.  Pvdict  maner  de  Sturson  [Ac.]  tenebantr  de 
Rohto  Comite  Sussex ;  ac  maner  de  West  Toftes  ats  Barrowes  de  Rege  vt  de  Baronia  nup 

Epatus  Norci ;  ac  the  Nonnes  grounde  de  Rege  vt  de  Maner  suo  de  Thetford.  Juratores  vlterius 

dicunt  quod  Witlus  Jermyn  obijt  duodecimo  die  Decembris  tertio  anno  regni  Jacobi  nunc  Regis 
Anglie ;  et  quod  Johes  Jermyn  Ar  secundus  fitiius  cuiusdem  Edmundi  Jermyn  defunct  est  frater 

et  px  heres,  et  tempore  capcois  Indus  Inquisicionis  est  etatis  viginti  et  quinqj  anno^  et  amplius. 

Dorothea  relicta  p’tfci  Edmuudi  Jermyn  patris  adhuc  supstes  est,  et  est  dotabilis  de  tertia  pte 
omniu  fffnissoij  jictco?. 

Inq.  p.  mort.,  C.  307,  73. 


Death  of  John  Jerrnp,  of  fiqpDot,  1607. 

By  an  Inquisition  taken  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  upon  the  4tb  of  July  in  the  5th  year 
of  King  James,  on  the  death  of  John  Jermyn  Esqr,  it  was  found  that  long  before  his  decease 
Sir  Thomas  Jermyn,  Knfc,  his  father,  had  been  seized  of  the  Manor  of  Depden  and  of  lands 
and  tenements  in  Depden,  Reede,  Wyckham  brook,  ITengrave,  Chevington,  and  Chetbergh  in  the 
County  of  Suffolk,  and  of  the  advowson  of  the  Church  of  Depden ;  also  of  a  tenement  called 
Yauncyes  with  garden  and  lands.  So  seized  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn,  by  a  charter  dated  27th  October, 
38th  Henry  VIII,  settled  them  in  trust  to  his  own  use  for  life,  and  after  his  death  to  the 

use  of  Anne  his  then  wife  for  her  life,  with  remainder  to  John  Jermyn,  son  of  the  said 

Thomas  and  Anne,  and  to  his  heirs  males,  and  failing  these  to  Thomas  Jermyn,  another  of  the 
sons  of  said  Thomas  and  Anne,  and  then,  he  also  dying  without  issue  male,  to  the  right  heirs 
of  the  said  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn.  Sir  Thomas  died  at  Rushbrook  in  Suffolk  so  seized,  and 
Anne  his  widow  entered.  She  afterwards  died  at  Depden  and  John  Jermyn  named  in  the  brief 
succeeded.  He  purchased  other  lands  in  Depden,  and  in  Croxton,  co.  Norfolk.  So  seized  he 
died  at  Depden  on  the  25th  of  November  last.  Thomas  Jermyn  Esqr,  his  son  and  next  heir 
is  of  the  age  of  forty  six  years  and  upwards.  The  Manor  of  Depden  is  held  of  the  Earl  of 
Exeter,  as  of  his  Manor  of  Castle  Acre ;  and  the  Messuage  in  Croxton  of  the  Masters  and 

Fellows  of  Christ’s  College,  Cambridge. 


Inquisitions  p.m.,  P.R.O.,  C.  296,  128. 


JERMYN  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


249 


®bomas  Jermgn  of  liqjta,  Jtimton',  1617* 

Thomas  Jermyn  Ar.  mense  Julij  1617.  Quinto  die  emanavit  comissio  Sare  Jermyn  retce 
Thome  Jermyn,  nuper  dum  vixit  de  Debden  in  Com  SuSp  ar,  def  hentis  etc’  A(J  administrand 
bona,  iura  et  credita  dci  def  de  bene  etc’  jurat.  Nor  dibc. 

Admoh  Act  Book,  P.C.C.  1615—1618,  fo.  126 b. 

In  the  Miscellaneous  Pedigrees  of  Penson,  Lancaster  Herald  (Harl.  MS.  1,110,  fo.  113), 
is  one  which  tells  us  that  this  Thomas  Jermyn  married  Sarah,  daughter  of  John  Stephen  of 
Althorn  in  Essex.  The  statement  is  confirmed  by  similar  pedigrees  in  the  Jermyn  MSS.  (Add. 
MS.  8,192,  under  “  Rushbrook  ”)  and  the  Blois  MS. — the  latter  written  by  a  neighbour  and 
contemporary. 


Mill  of  (Klijabetl)  fmttDtt,  1626. 

I  Elizabeth  Jermyn  of  Bury  St.  Edmond,  widdowe,  make  this  my  last  will  and  testament. 
I  giue  vnto  Anne  Jermyn  my  daughter  seavenscore  poundes.  Vnto  Susan  Jermyn,  daughter  of 
my  sonne  Edmond  Jermyn  thirty  poundes,  and  to  Catherine,  one  other  daughter  of  my  sonne, 
twenty  poundes.  These  legacies  I  desire  my  good  Lady  Jermyn  may  keepe  to  be  imploied  for 
the  benefitt  of  those  two  poore  children  vntill  they  shall  attayne  the  age  of  eighteene  yeares. 
I  giue  to  my  sonne  Ambrose  fiftie  poundes,  and  to  my  sonne  William  likewise  fiftie  poundes, 
and  to  my  sonne  Edward  fifty  poundes.  To  my  daughter  Grymes  the  bedd  wherein  vsually  she 
lyeth.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  I  giue  vnto  my  daughter  Anne  (she)  payinge  my  debtes ;  and  I 
giue  her  the  malte  wch  I  haue  putt  to  makinge  and  eighteene  poundes  of  money.  Vnto  my 
daughter  Bridget  Mildemaye,  to  Juda  Mildemay  my  grandchilde,  and  to  my  sonne  Robert,  ringes. 
And  I  make  my  sonne  William  Jermyn  sole  executor.  The  first  of  Maye,  1626. 

Probatum  apud  London  decimo  sexto  die  .Junij  1626,  Jura.mto  Wiftmi  Jermyn  filij  dee 
defunct. 

P.C.C.  80  Hele. 


Inquisition  on  tb t  teatb  of  John  Jrnnon,  1623. 

Inquisicio  capta  apud  Thetford  in  Coin  Norff.,  xii°  die  Septembris,  anno  Regni  Caroli  Angt 
[&c.]  Regis  tercio,  post  mortem  Johis  Jermyn  nup  de  West  Tofts  in  Com  jM'  Armi^i.  Juratores 
dicunt  qd  pdcus  Johes  Jermyn  in  vita  sua  seitus  fuit  in  Manerio  de  Bigottes  et  in  duobj 
mesuagijs  et  lx  acris  ?re  in  West  Tofts  pdca.  Postea  xi°  die  Mai)  1627  fecit  Testamentum  et 
legavit  fid  Mane?,  ter?  et  tenta  (except  unu  tentum  tria  cotagia  et  quatuor  acr  ?re)  Thome 
Jermyn  geSoso  fri  ejus  et  hered  mascul  de  corpore  ejus  ;  et  p  defeu  tlis  exitus,  Tallmag 
Jermyn  alio  fri  et  hered  mascul;  et  p  defeu  tlis  exit  Clemento  Jermyn  alio  fri  et  hered  mascul; 
et  p  defeu  tabs  exit,  rectis  hered  jifat  Johis  Jermyn  inppm.  Et  dedit  [id  tentum  et  quatuor 
acr  ter?  except  Edo  Andrewes  et  Alicie  vxi  eius.  Dedit  [idea  tria  cotagia  in  his  Anglicanis  verbis 
sequen : — I  geue  to  the  Towneshipp  of  West  Toftes  the  cottage  wcl*  the  roode  of  land  that 

2  H 


250 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


George  Gardiner  now  dwelleth  in  [and  two  other  cottages]  for  the  dwellinge  of  three  of  the 
poorest  couples  in  the  Towneshipp.  Johes  .Jermyn  postea,  vltimo  die  Junij  ante  captacrh  hujus 
Inquis  apud  West  Tofts  obijt;  et  Thomas  Jermyn  fuit  frater  et  pximus  heres  et  tempore  mortis 
ftaci  Johis  Jermyn  fuit  etatis  quadraginta  annoi'3  et  amplius.  Maner  de  West  Taffts  ats  Barrowes 
tenebaf  de  Prior  de  Tlietford.  Et  Maner  de  Bigotts  tenebat1'  de  Sno  Rege  vt  de  Castro  suo 
de  Dover.  Inq.  P.M.,  C.  464,  56,  <fc  C.  467,  47. 

About  a1  fourth  part  of  C.  464,  56  has  been  carefully  and  elaborately  obliterated. 

C.  467,  47  is  dated  29  March  8th  Chas,  and  names  both  the  Manors  throughout. 


Hdbma  HoDfoatj,  imk  of  Sljomas  Jmnun,  1629. 

We  are  indebted  to  Mr.  N.  E.  T.  Bosanquet  for  the  following  note,  which  is  based 
upon  entries  in  the  parish  registers  of  St.  Mary  Aldermary,  London.  Rebecca  Rodway,  wife 
successively  of  Thomas  Jermyn  of  Rushbrook  and  Henry,  third  and  last  Yiscount  Brouncker, 
was  the  only  child  of  William  Rodway,  citizen  and  merchant  tailor  of  London,  by  Rebecca  his 
wife,  who  remarried  Sir  Thomas  Trevor,  Lord  Chief  Baron  of  the  Exchequer.  In  his  will 
(P.C.C.  8  Ruthen),  proved  1656,  the  latter  mentions  his  “daughter  Jermin.”  Lady  Brouncker 
died  24th  January  1693-4,  and  was  buried  in  the  chancel  at  Rushbrook  under  a  marble  stone 
inscribed  to  her  memory.  The  register  describes  her  as  “  The  Honoble  Rebecca  Lady  Brounker 
(ye  Lord  Jermyn’s  mother).”  Her  will,  dated  13  May  1692,  is  given  in  full  in  Mr.  Hervey’s 
“  Rushbrook  Parish  Registers,”  already  alluded  to  on  page  243.  The  reference  to  William 
Rodway’s  will,  1626,  is  P.C.C.  48  Hele.  Sir  Matin  Lumley,  his  brother-in-law,  was  overseer. 


SStill  of  Sljomas  Jmmm,  1656. 

The  fifte  day  of  November,  1656,  I  Thomas  Jermyn  of  West  Tofts  in  the  Countye  of 
NorfF  Esqr  make  this  my  last  will.  My  bodie  to  be  buryed  in  West  Tofts  Church  neere  vnto 
my  brother  John  Jermyn.  My  sonne  John  to  gett  a  stone  to  lay  over  vs  with  this  inscription 
“  Here  vnder  lyeth  the  Bodyes  of  John  Jermyn  late  of  West  Tofts  Esqr :  And  alsoe  of  Thomas 
Jermyn  Esqr  his  brother,  a  Pentioner  of  the  bodye  of  the  late  Kinge  James,  and  alsoe  of  Kinge 
Charles,  both  of  blessed  memory.”  And  I  desire  Mr  Andrew  Dowty  of  Cranworth  to  preache 
at  my  buryall  and  to  bury  me  the  old  way,  if  it  may  not  be  preiudiciall  to  him ;  and  for  his 
paines  I  giue  him  ffortye.  Edward  shillinges.  [Large  bequests  to  the  poor  follow.]  What  shall 
remaine  of  twenty  seaven  pounds  which  I  haue  by  me — Edward  money— shall  repayer  the 
Alineshowses  withall.  I  devise  vnto  Elizabeth  Jermyn,  daughter  of  my  sonne  John  Jermyn,  my 
lands  and  tenementes  in  Cranworth  which  I  late  purchased,  to  hold  to  her  and  her  heires  at 
her  age  of  ffiftene  yeares.  And  in  the  meane  tyme  I  appoint  my  cozen  Mr  William  Jermyn, 
Mr  Andrewe  Dowty,  clerke,  and  Francis  Kinge  my  tennant,  ffeoffees  in  trust  for  [her].  If  she 
shall  depart  this  life  without  issue  of  her  body,  Then  T  devise  the  said  landes  to  her  next  heire 
lawfullie  begotten  by  my  sonne  John  Jermyn.  To  my  sister  Townshend  a  Ringe.  To  my  Cozen 
Smith  of  Bodney  a  mourneing  ribbon.  To  my  goddaughter  Anne  Towneshend  ffortye  shillinges. 


JERMYN  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


25  1 


To  ray  good  daughter  in  lawe  Mns  Elizabeth  Jermyn  all  my  gold,  which  is  about  thirtye  poundes 
and  my  great  Cabbinett.  I  giue  and  devise  vnto  my  said  sonne  John  Jermyn  my  messuages, 
Mannors,  Landes  and  Tenements  in  Westofts  (not  formerlie  devised)  dureing  his  life,  and  after 
his  decease  to  the  heires  male  of  his  body;  and  for  want  of  such  issue,  to  Elizabeth  Jermyn 
daughter  of  my  sonne  John  Jermyn  and  to  the  rest  of  the  heires  female  of  the  said  John. 
And  if  my  said  sonne  depart  this  life  without  yssue  of  his  body,  Then  I  giue  all  my  estate 
vnto  my  Cozen  Thomas  Jermyn  of  Rushbrooke  in  the  Countye  of  Suffolk  Esqr  and  to  his  heires 
for  ever,  (he)  payeinge  out  to  my  said  daughter  in  lawe  and  my  loveinge  Cozen  Mr  William 
Jermyn  (to  each)  twentye  poundes  a  yeare,  dureinge  their  lives,  and  to  the  Churchwardens  of 
West  Tofts  tenne  poundes  yearlie  for  the  poore  in  the  Almeshouse,  and  the  rest  of  the  poore 
of  the  said  towne.  To  my  grandchild  Jermyn  Shene  twentye  poundes  at  his  age  of  eighteene 
yeares,  and  in  the  mean  tyme  to  pay  the  use  thereof  to  Mris  Dorothy  Shene,  his  mother.  To 
my  neeee  Mris  Elizabeth  Salter  plate  of  Hive  poundes  in  value.  I  make  my  sonne  John  Jermyn, 
my  cozen  Mr  William  Jermyn  and  Mr  Wm  Davy  of  Ellingham,  Executors,  and  James  de  Cray 
Esqr,  my  noble  friend,  Supervisor. 

This  will  was  proved  13th  Feb.  1657  by  the  oath  of  John  Jermyn  the  son  of  one  of  the 
executors.  P.C.C.  173  Wootton. 


WtU  of  (K&foarit  1657. 

Edward  Sheene  of  Wymondham  in  the  Countye  of  Norff.  gent.  To  be  buryed  in  the 
Church  of  Wymondham.  Ynto  Dorothy  Sheene  my  welbeloved  wife,  out  of  my  true  and  entire 
affection  to  her,  all  my  houses  and  landes  in  Wymondham,  Winton  and  Napton  in  Norfolk,  as 
alsoe  in  Hoxon  in  Suffolke,  during  her  life,  she  to  educate  our  three  children  in  a  moderate 
and  motherly  sort.  And  after  [herj  decease  I  give  said  landes  [&c.]  vnto  Jermyn  Sheene  my 
onelie  sonn  and  to  his  heires.  Veto  Anne  Sheene  and  Sarah  Sheene  my  daughters  [moneys]  to 
be  paid  by  my  said  sonne.  I  make  my  wife  sole  executrix  and  John  Jermyn  Esqr  supervisor 
of  this  will.  This  will  was  proved  at  London  the  27th  day  of  May  1658  by  the  oath  of 
Dorothy  Sheene  the  relict.  P.C.C. 


Mill  of  Dante  Jltaro  Jerrngn,  1679. 

I,  Dame  Mary  Jermyn  of  the  Cittie  of  Norwich,  widdowe  of  Sr  Thomas  Jermiu  late  of 
Rushbrook  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  Knight,  doe  make  and  declare  this  my  last  will.  I  commend 
my  soule  into  the  hands  of  Almighty  God,  my  most  gratious  and  loveing  father.  I  give  unto 
the  poore  people  of  Edgefield  in  Norff  five  pounds.  Unto  my  sonne  Thomas  Newton  my  Mannor 
of  Edgefield  cum  Ellingham  and  my  messuages  and  farms  in  Norfolk,  during  his  life  naturall. 
I  give  (him)  full  power  to  make  Cassandra  his  now  wife  a  Jointure;  or  anie  other  woman 
whome  he  shall  take  to  wife.  (After  his  death)  I  devise  (said  lands,  &c.)  unto  Robert  Newton 
my  grandchild ;  and  for  want  of  heirs  males  of  his  body,  unto  Charles  Newton  my  grand¬ 
child  ;  and  failing  heirs  males  of  his  body,  unto  Henry  Newton  my  grandchild,  or  the  right 
heirs  males  of  the  said  Thomas  Newton  my  sonne.  For  want  of  such  issue  I  doe  give  my  said 

2  H2 


252 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Manor,  and  all  my  messuages  Ac.  whatsoever,  unto  Jermyn  Wyche  my  grandchild,  and  the 
heirs  males  of  his  body,  and  for  want  of  such,  unto  Cyril  Wyche  my  grandchild  ;  and  failing 
heirs  males  of  his  body,  unto  my  right  heirs  for  ever ;  subject  however  to  the  payment  of  £250 
a  peece  to  my  grandchildren  Cassandra  Newton  and  Ann  Newton.  My  grandchild  Elizabeth 
Newton.  My  friend  and  kinsman  Thomas  Covile  of  Horringer  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  gentle¬ 
man.  My  friend  Master  Thomas  Crane  of  Norwich,  merchant.  Unto  my  grandchildren  Jermyn 
Wyche,  Cyrill  Wyche  and  Henrietta  Wyche,  to  each  £100.  I  give  the  use  of  my  great  dyamond 
ffossed  ring,  now  in  the  possession  of  my  sonne  in  law  Sr  Cyrill  Wyche,  vnto  Jermyn  Wyche 
my  grandchild ;  and  if  he  die  without  issue  male,  vnto  my  grandchild  Cyrill  Wyche  :  and  if  he 
die  without  male  issue,  to  my  grandchild  Henrietta  Wyche.  At  her  death  I  desire  her  to  leave 
it  to  her  father  Sir  Cyrill  Wyche,  that  it  may  be  enjoyed  by  the  relations  of  the  blood  of  that 
worthy  gentleman,  Sr  Thomas  Jermyn,  and  be  preserved  as  an  heire  loome  in  his  memory  who 
did  first  give  it  me.  To  the  said  Henrietta  Wyche,  my  Knott  of  dyamonds,  and  the  handle  of 
a  Fanne  set  with  dyamonds  and  my  great  red  truncke  of  linnen.  To  my  sonne  Thomas  Newton 
ray  table  dyamond  which  was  given  me  by  Lady  Rant.  To  my  daughter  in  law  Cassandra 
Newton  my  pointed  dyamond  ring,  desireing  her  to  leave  it  to  her  son  Robert.  To  Mistresse 
Judith  Covile,  wife  of  my  loveing  kinsman  Master  Thomas  Covile,  my  ring  with  three  small 
dyamonds  which  I  usually  weare,  and  I  desire  her  to  weare  it  for  my  sake.  To  my  brother 
Edward  Barber  five  pounds.  1  doe  make  my  said  sonne  Thomas  Newton  my  Executor.  The 
seaventeenth  day  of  July  1679.  Probatum  vicesimo  tertio  die  Octobris,  1679,  Juramento  Thomse 
Newton  filij  dictse  defunctae.  P.C.C.  131  King. 

Dame  Mary  Jermyn,  the  testatrix,  was  daughter  of  Edmond  Barber  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s 
by  Joan  his  wife,  daughter  of  Matthew  Clarke  of  King’s  Lynn.  .Edmund  Berber  her  brother, 
a  Poor  Knight  of  Windsor,  married  Martha,  daughter  of  Ambrose  Blage  of  Horringer.  John 
Barber,  another  brother,  died  in  Virginia.  Anne  Barber,  one  of  her  sisters,  married  Frederick 
Cornwallis.  Her  grandfather,  Roger  Barber  who  married  the  daughter  of  John  Boldero,  entered 
his  pedigree  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1577.  We  gather  these  particulars  from  the  Suffolk 
Visitation  Book  in  the  Library  of  Caius  College,  Cambridge  (MS.  554,  fol.  26).  They  were 
probably  noted  down  by  Edmund  Barber,  Lady  Jermyn’s  nephew,  who  was  Fellow  of  King’s 
College,  Cambridge,  in  1679,  the  year  of  her  decease. 


iPeiujjm,  ©nil)),  SMalDnjrabr,  Stenngn,  1561. 

Anne  Drurye  daughter  of  Sr  Robert  Drurye  of  Halsted  in  the  Countie  Suff  Knight  first 
maried  to  George  W algrave  of  Smalebridge  in  the  Countie  of  Suff  esquire  and  had  by  him  yssue, 
Sr  William  Walgrave  Knight  sonne  and  heire,  George  Walgrave  second  sonne,  Edward  Walgrave 
thirde  sonne,  Anne  maryed  to  Henry  Bewers  of  Acton  in  the  Countie  of  9 uffolke  esquire,  filly s 
maryed  to  Thomas  Higham  of  Hygham  and  heire  to  John  Higham. 

After  the  saide  Anne  maried  to  her  second  husband  Sr  T nomas  Jermyn  of  Rusbroke  in  the 
Countie  of  Sufi  Knight  and  had  by  him  John  Jermyn  and  Thomas  Jermyn. 

John ■  Jermyn  aforesaide  maryed  to  Marye  daughV  to  Lyonell  Talmage  of  Helmyngham  in 
the  Countie  Suff  Esquire.  Harl.  MS.  1,103,  fo.  23b. 


JERMYN  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


253 


ttorigrtr,  Srrmjm  of  ADrtocn,  161*2. 

John  Jermin  of  Debden  in  Suff.  Gent.  mar.  Mary  the  da.  of  Lionel  Talmache  of  Helmingham 

in  Suff.  Esq.  and  had  issue,  Thomas  sonne  and  heir :  John  second  sonne :  Francis  and  Edmund 

obierunt :  Henry :  Ann  mar.  to  Thomas  Burlz:  Susan  mar.  to  Nevell  of  co.  Line. :  another  da. 

mar.  to  Delapinde  of  Kent :  Sarah  mar.  to  Wright  of  Norf. 

Henry  Jermin  of  Giffords  in  Suff.  the  third  son  of  John  mar.  the  da.  of  King  of 

Debden. 

From  Camden’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  1612. 


Srrmjm  of  Brptirn,  from  tljr  Canfclrr 


Spring. =r Thomas  Jermyn=pAnna  Jilia  Robti  Drury 


miles. 


de  Hawsted  Miles. 


Johannes  Jermyn  quern  pater  maneris  terrisql^Maria  filia  Lionelli  Tallemach  Ar. 
in  Depden  donavit. 


1.  Thomas  Jermin= j=.  .  .  .  Harris  de  2.  Johannes 
de  Depden  Ar.  Comit.  Essex.  Jermin. 


3.  Hugo  Jer¬ 
min. 


4.  Franciscus  5.  .....  6.  Henricus 

J ermin.  Jermin.  Jermin. 


Thomas  Jermin  de=j=[$ara.  Da  :  to  Jo  Stephens  of  Althorn  of  Essex  Jana  Jermin  vxor  Thomse  Wright  de  Kilverston 
Debden  Ar.  I  Sheire.  Harl.  MS.  1,110,  fo.  113.]  consilarii  ad  leges. 


Robtus  Jermin  qui  patri- 
moniu’  vendidit. 


- ! - 1 

Susanna  vxor  ....  Cole  qui  Jerminoru’  terras  in  Elizabetha  vxor  Henrici  Shelton  vulgo 
Depden  emit  a  Roberto  Jermin.  dicti  Capitanei  Shelton. 


Tanner  MSS.  257,  230;  Harl.  MS.  6,071. 


Sknnjm  of  ?i)oflil)am,  from  tljr  Canfilrr 


Ambrosius  Jermin,  3liv*  Ambrosii  Jermin  militis,  films, ^Elizabetha  filia  prima  et  cohseres 


manerio  de  Hockham 
profundit.  ( Thus  in 

a  patre  donatus  omnia  pro  amore 
Mr  Wingfeld’s  Booke.) 

Johannis  Paston  de  Huntingfeld 
in  Com’  Suff.  Armig’ 

1  T 

Johannes  Jermin.  Robertas 

Ob.  cselebs.  Jermin. 

Ambrosius 

Jermin. 

Edwardus  Jermin 
Locum  tenens  f 
in  Belgia. 

r  i 

Antonius  ccesus 
in  obsidione 
Bredse. 

7T 

Willelmus 

Jermyn. 

Thomas  Jermin  in 
duello  quodam 
apud  Newmarket 
Coesus. 

Edmundus  Jermin=p Le titia  filia  Henrici 


de  H ockham. 


Coldingham,  gen’ 


Brigitta  vxor  Walteri  Anna  Susanna  Jermin  vxor  Johannis  Crimes 

Mildemay  de  Badho  in  Jermin.  de  Peckham  in  Comit.  Surrise  fratris 
Comit.  Essexix.  Thomie  Crimes  militis. 


Catherine  Jermin. 


Susanna  Jermin.  Dorothea  Jermin. 


Harl.  MS.  6,071,  pp.  223,  224. 


254 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Priuffiff,  Sternum  of  fttufprootu 

( Founded  on  that  in  Harl.  MS.  1560,  which  is  printed  in  italics.) 

All  this  descent  from  Scotland  of  Rushbrooke  to  Hugh  the  sonn  of  John  of  Rushbrook  $ -  to  Hugh  Jermyn  is  proved  by  an 
inquisition  taken  by  the  oath  of  xii  men ;  the  transcript  wheareof  was  extant  in  the  Regester  of  the  Abbott  of  bury  now  in  the  hands 
of  Robert  Drewry  esqr. 


John- 

Jermyn. 


-Emme  d.  ffor  Rushbrook.  The  2  match  is  proued  by  the  inquisition  taken  out  of  the 

of  ..  .  Regester  of  bury  afforsayd  :  by  wfih  inquisition  the  sisters  of  Thomas  of 

Rushbrook  was  ffound  sole  heires. 


Scotland  of  Rush-= 
brook  in  Suff. 


Hugh  Jermyn  of  Rushbrook  in  Com  Suff=rMaude  d.  of 
soe  called  by  divers  deeds  without  date. 

_ i 


Beatrice  1.  wife ,  d.  of  .  .  ,-f-Michell  Rushbrooke. -f-. 


d.  of 


2  wife. 


i - ; - i - i - 

Sr  Thom  Jermyn ,  Justice  in-^- Agnes  d.  §-  coheire  of  Allice 
Eyre  temp  An"  1.  R.  1.  I  Michell  Rushbrook.  Rushbrook. 


Willm  2f 
Thomas,  s.p. 


Issabell  d.  Sf  co¬ 
heire  vx  large. 


Henery  Rushbrooke  proved  by  a  deed 
of  the  Abbotts’  afforesayd. 


1.  Sr  Willm- 
Jermyn  Knt. 


-Joane  his  wife,  proved  by 
a  deed  dated  the  1  of  E.  1. 


— i 

2.  John  Jermyn  bought  the  purport  of 
Wm  large  his  mother’s  inheritance. 


Williarnlarge.  (Arg. 
a  cock  Gu.,  a  chief 
of  the  2d.) 


Thomas  de 
Rishbrook. 


John  de  Rushbrooke 
lined  8.  E.  1. 


Hugh  Jermyn  :=j 
paid  subsidy 
1327. 


Hie  iacet  Willm  Germyn  nup  de  barking  in  Com.  Essex,  Armig.  qui  obiji  die  veneri  proxim’ 
ante  festum  sc’ti  Jacobi  Appostili  An"  Do  1434:  et  Christiana  vxor  eius,  que  obiit  die  Mar- 
curii  proxim’  ante  ffestum  Annuciac’ois  beate  Maiorse  veginis  An0  1433  :  quo%  Animab j  pro- 
piciatr  Devs.  Amen.  12.  H.  6.  (The  special  spelling  is  that  of  Harl.  MS/l560.) 


Hugh  Rush-=rMaulde 


brooke  liued 
26.  E.  1. 


of 


John  Jermyn- 
liued  13.  Sr 
23.  E.  3. 


-Joane 
d.  of 


Hugh  Jer¬ 
myn,  20  E. 
3. 


Edmond, 
18  20 
E.  3. 


Agnes, 
6  Sr  9 
E.  3. 


Allice  Jermyn, 
liued  18  E.  2, 
6  Sr  9  E.  3. 


Willm  Rushbrooke 
lived  34  E.  3. 


In  his  Will,  7  R.  2,  Sir  William  Rushbrook 
leaves  his  Manor  of  Rushbrook  to  Thomas 
his  son,  and  names  Alice  his  daughter, 
Thomas  Jermyn  being  one  of  the  executors. 


r 

Willing  Christia  n 

i 

8r  Thom  Jer-=j=  Margerett,  d.  of  Willm 

Robert  Ber-- p 

Jermyn 

his  wife 

myn  liued  48. 

Hore  of  Boxsted  in  Suff. 

nard  of  Is- 

ob.1434. 

i - J 

ob.  1433. 

E.  3. 

4  R.  2. 

1 

lam  esqr. 

i - 1 

Elizabeth  sister  Sr  coheire  Judeth  d.  Sr 
of  8r  Nicholas  lilling  of  coheire  vx 
Est  lilling  Knt.  Rob.  Olney. 


.  .  .  d.  Sr  coheire 
vx  John  Hunt  of 
Rushbrook. 


John  Jermyn- 
sonn  of  Wm. 
24.  H.  6. 


Ellenor  d.  Sf  coheire  Anne  2.  d.  vx  Valentyne 
vx  Willm  Rame.  Bayliff. 

These  2.  daughters  be  proved  by  a  fine 
levied  the  9.  H.  6.  (See  p.  244.) 


S’’  John  Bernard  off 
Akenham  in  Suff.  Sr 
Iselham  Knt. 


Thom  Jer-=pMargerett  d.  of  Leyman  of 
myn  of  I  Ipswich.  (Per  chev.  Gu.  & 
Rushbrook.  |  Ar.  3  annulets  of  the  1st.) 

I _ 


Margerett  1.  d.  Sf  coheire  vx  Thom  Peyton 
of  Suff. 


- Ellen  d.  Sr  coheire  of 
Sr  John  Mallory  Knt. 
Sff  widdoivof  Swinerton. 


Robert  Hunt 
Rushbrook. 


of 


3  4.$*  coheire  vx 
Strange. 


William-^  Margerett . 
Bozum. 


Margaret,  2d= 
wife,  living 
1496. 


1 


-Thom  Jermyn  of  Rush-= 
brook.  Will,  P.C.C.  39 
Holgrave  1496  &  1603. 


Mary  Jermyn 
ob.  s.p.;  living 
1503;  Will,  C. 
Ep.  N.  1547. 


Allice  1.  m.  to  Wm. 
Tassell ;  2,  to  Thomas 
Bolton;  had  son  Mar¬ 
tin  Bolton. 


-Catheryn  2.  d.  Sff  co¬ 
heire  of  Sr  John  Ber¬ 
nard. 


Themariage  of  Willm  Borgoun  Sr  of  Margerett  his  wife 
daughter  Sr  coheire  of  William  Bozun  is  proved  by  the 
King’s  writ t  of  livery  &  dowery  of  the  Man  nor  of  Roxs- 
ton  in  Com  Bedford  the  of  february  An"  E.  E.  4. 


Agnes  ux  Robert  Saxton 
and  had  issue  Thomas, 
1503.  See  her  Will, 
1520,  vol.  i,  289. 


Willm- 

Burgon. 


i — 


- 1 

Margerett 
d.  Sr  heire. 


George  Waldegrave^Awne  d.  of  Sr  Roberte=f  Sr  Tho.  Jermyn  of  Rush- 


of  Smalbridge,  1st 
husband. 


Drury,  mont.  in  Rush¬ 
brook  Church ;  ob.  1572. 


A 


brook.  Will,  P.C.C.  33 
Powell,  Sept.  1552. 


- 1 - 1 

Robert  Jermyn  to.  Beatrice  ffrancis  Jermyn  m.  Anas- 
d.  Sf  coheire  of  Darrell  of  tacia  d.  Sr  coheire  ofDar- 
Essex  Sr  ob.  s.p.  rell  of  Essex  8r  ob.  s.p. 

=r  Will  1550,  P.C.C.  8 

Bucke. 

i - 1 — | — i — | 

Margaret,  Mary,  Frances, 


Richard  Burgon=f=- 
of  Royston  in 
Com.  Bedford. 


A 

Jermyn  of  Debden. 


'-....  d.  of  Tho.  Spring, 
of  Lenham  in  Suff.  1 
wife. 


and  Anne,  devisees  of  their 
uncle  Francis  Jermyn, 
1550. 


A 


J ohn-y 
Burgon 
Esqr. 

B 


JERMYN  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


255 


B 


Bridget, wife 
of  Thomas 
Crane,  of 
Chilton, 
1567. 


Mary  vx  Thomas 
Lucas. 

Margerett  vx  Robt. 
Clopton  of  Kentwell. 


Anne  vx  Francis  Ursula  ux.  Ro- 
Noone  of  Marties-  ger  Martin,  de¬ 
ham,  1567.  His  visee  of  Ed- 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  mond  Jermyn 
Norw.  1571.  1573. 


Anthony  Jermyn, 
Esq.  Will,P.C,C. 
1  Lyon,  Nov.  1569, 
s.p. 


6.  Agnes  vx  Hen. 
Copinger  of  Lux- 
hall, ,  1552-1567. 


7.  Barbara,  1  m. 
to  John  Bacon 
ofHessett  in  Suff. 
1552. 


8.  ffrances  vx 
Lyonel  Good- 
erick.  Visit. 
Line.  1562-3. 


Alice,  vx  Robt.  Ash- 
feld,  of  Stowlang- 
toft.  She  ob.  1546. 
His  Will,  P.C.C.  12 
Coode,  3  E.  6. 


9.  Martha  vx  Thomas 
Higliam,  1552  ;  a 
widow,  1567.  Will, 
1591.  Vol.  i,  296. 


Elizabeth  vx 
Thomas  Pla¬ 
ter,  of  Sot- 
terley,  1567. 


George=fCatherin  2 


Heuen- 
ingham, 
2  sonn. 


d.  and  co- 
heire  of  John 
Burg  on. 


10. 


I — i 

Jane. 


Robert  ob. 


s.p. 


i - 

All-ice  vx 
Thom. 
Greene 
of  Kent. 


. .  vx  Edward 
Pitcher  of 
com.  Cam¬ 
bridge. 


Edmond  Jermyn,  of  Den¬ 
ham,  2d  son.  Will,  P.C.C. 
34  Peter,  1572 ;  ob.  s.p. 


Richard  Goodrick,  2d=j=S''  George  Blage  Knt.  1  =p  Dorathey  d.  of~l.  Sr  Ambrose  Jermyn  of Anne  d.  heire  of 


husb.  For  the  issue  I  husband  ;  by  whom  Hen-  I  Wm.  Badbye,  Rushbrook  Knt.  sonn 
of  this  mar.  see  Lin-  |  ry  &  Judith  Blage.  |  2  wife.  heire.  Will,  P.C.C.  15 

coin  Visitn.  1562.  /f\  A\  Daughtry,  March  1577. 


George  Heuening- 
ham  1  wife. 


1.  Anne  vx  Wm  Dorathey,  vx  Ed-  3 . 3d.  mar. 

Tyndale,  sonn  8f  mond  Duke  esqr  Richard  Goodrick, 
heire  of  S''Thom.,  of  Brampton,  co.  son  of  her  step- 
ob.  s.p.  Suff.  mother,  Dorothy. 


4- 


Susan,  1.  m.  to  Lyonell 
Talmage,  sonn  fp  heire 
of  Sr  Lionell ;  2.  to  [Sir] 
Wm.  Spring. 


Margerett  vx  .  .  . 
Dighton  of  Com 
Lincoln  Iff  hath 
-yssue  Thomas. 


Hester  vx  Hen. 
Blage  esqr,  son 
of  Dorothy, her 
step-mother. 


Frances  Jermyn, 
ob.  s.p.  Will, Arch. 
Sudb.,  1580. 


1.  JohnJermyn, 
ob.  s.p.—Mar- 
gerett,  d.  of  Ed¬ 
ward,  Erie  of 
Darby. 


2.  Sr  Robert  Jer-^f  Judith,  d.  of  S'"  3.  Ambrose^fElizebeth  d.  of  John  4.  Edmond  Jer-=p  Dorathey,  da.  of  Sr 


myn ,  of  Rush- 
brook,  Brother  Sp 
heire.  Will, P.C.C. 
56  Lawe,  1614. 


Judith  vx  WilVm  Walgraue  sonn 
8p  heire  of  Sr  Will’m  Walgraue  of 
Smalbridg. 


George  Blage 
Knt :  sister  of 
S''  Henery. 


Jermyn. 


Paston.  Her  Will 
P.C.C.  1626.  80, 

Hele. 


myn,  of  Stur- 
son  in  Norff. 


Wm. Spring  ofPak- 
enham  in  Suff.  Knt. 


A 

Jermyn  of  Hockham. 


A 

Jermyn  of  West  Tofts. 


- 1 — i 

George,  ob.  s.p. 

Wm.  Jermyn, 
youngest  son  ; 
living  1614. 


““i - 1 - ; - 1 - 1 

Anne  vx  W-illm  Pooley  ffrances,  wife  of  Sir  Dorathe,  wife  of  Sir  Suzan,  mar.  1612  Sir  William 
of  Boxsted.  Sir  Wm.  William  Woodhouse  Ralph  Shelton  ;  mar.  Hervey,  grandfather  of  the  1st 
Poley  mar.  1597.  1614 ;  mar.  1608.  1606.  Earl  of  Bristol. 


Mary,  dau.  of  Edmund  Barber=pi.  Sr  Thom.  Jermyn  Knt.  of=p Cut herin  d.  of  Will’m  2.  Robert  Jermyn, =f=Dorothy,  dau.  of=f  Butts  Bacon, 


and  widow  of  Thomas  Newton, 
of  Edgefield,  Norff.  ;  bur.  in  St. 
James’,  Bury,  1679. 


Rushbrook,  bapt.  Feb.  1572. 
Will,  P.C.C.  23  Rivers,  Jan. 
1644.  He  mar.  Mary  Bar¬ 
ber  1641. 


i — i - 

I  I 

Robert,  d.  1660. 

Elizabeth,  bapt. 
1644 ;  mar.  Sir 
Cyril  Wyche, 
1663. 


Killegraue  of  Han- 
worth  in  com.  Midle- 
ser(Killegrew  1st  w.) 


bapt.  April  1582  ; 
ob.  vita  patris, 
bur.  at  Rushbrook. 


Sir  Henry  War¬ 
ner  of  Milden- 
hall ;  mar.  1603. 


son  of  Sir  Nic¬ 
holas  Bacon. 
She  d.  1657. 


A 


Robert  Jermyn, 
bapt.  at  Rush¬ 
brook  1601  ; 
died  1623,  s.p. 


2.  Thomas  Jermyn,1 
Esqr.  Will,  P.C.C.  6 
Laud;  died  11  Nov. 
1659,  M.I.  in  Rush¬ 
brook  Ch. 


Rebecca  Rodway.  She 
remar.  Henry,  3d  Vis¬ 
count  Brouncker.  Her 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1692 ; 
bur.  at  Rushbrook. 


3.  Henry  Jermyn,  Vis-  Ann,  bapt.  Judith  Jer- 

count  Jermyn  1643,  Earl  1606.  myn, of  Bury 

of  St.  Albans  1660.  —  St.  Edm’nds. 

Will,  P.C.C.  36  Hare,  Elizabeth,  Will,  Arch, 

proved  1683 ;  mont.  in  bapt.  1608.  Sudb.,  Oct. 

Rushbrook  chan.;  ob.s.p.  1626;  ob.  s.p. 


1.  Robt.,  bapt.  Thomas  Jermyn,  of=j=Mary,  dau.  of  Hen-  Henry  Jermyn,— Judith,  dau.  of  Sir  1.  Katherine,  bapt. 


1630 ;  ob.  inf.  Rushbrook,  sue.  his 
—  uncle  as  Lord  Jer- 

4.  Charles,  a  myn  1683.  Will, 
cornet  1666.  P.C.C.  69  Degg, 
Jan.  1702. 


ry  Merry,  son  and  h.  bapt.  1636 ;  ere-  Edmund  Poley,  of  1634;  mar.  Sir  Ed- 
to  Sir  Henry  Merry,  ated  Lord  Do-  Badley,  by  Esther,  ward  Walpole, 
of  Derbyshire.  Her  ver  1685  ;  ob.  dau.  of  Sir  Henry  — 

Will,  P.C.C.  162  s. p.1708 ;  estates  Crofts,  of  Saxham,  2.  Elizabeth,  bapt. 
Leeds,  pr.Julyl713.  to  his  nieces.  Knt.  1638;  mar.  .  .  Hacon. 


3.  Judith,  bapt. 
1639;  mar.  Geo. 
Raleigh. 

4.  Henrietta, mar. 
Henry,  4th  son  of 
Sir  John  Gage. 


i - 1 - - 1 - ; - t  i  ~  i - 1 

Thomas  Jermyn,  Mary,  eld.  d.  &  coh.,  2.  Henrietta  Maria,  3.  Delariviere,  mar.  4.  Penelope,  bapt.  at  5.  Merelina,  bapt.  1673  ; 

bap.  1677;  killed  by  mar.  1682  Sir  Robert  mar.  Thos.  Bond,  2d  Sir  Symond  D.  Ewes,  Rushbrook  1670  ;  mar.  1,  Sir  Thos.  Spring, 

the  fall  of  a  mast;  Davers,  2d  Bart.,  of  son  of  Sir  Thomas  3d  Bart.,  of  Stow-  mar.  Grey  James  of  Pakenham,  Bart.;  2, 

mont.  in  Rushbrook  Rougham,  co.  Suff.  Bond,  of  Peckham,  langtoft.  She  died  Grove,  of  Pool  Hall,  Sir  Wm.  Gage,  of  Hen- 

Ch. ;  bur.  there  27  She  d.  1722,  leaving  Bart.  She  d.  1698,  1702,  leaving  issue.  co.  Salop,  and  had  grave,  Bart.  She  died 

Dec.  1692.  issue.  leaving  issue.  issue.  1727. 


256 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Scnitjm  of  Bqttm. 


Anne,  da.  of  Thos. 
Spring,  of  Laven- 
ham,  co.  Suffolk, 
1st  wife. 


Sir  Thomas  Jermyn,  of  Rushbrook,  Kt. ;  settled1 
the  Manor  of  Depden,  co.  Suffolk,  upon  Anne, 
his  wife,  and  John  Jermyn  their  son,  1546;  made 
Will  1552,  P.C.C.  33  Powell ;  represented  on  his 
/^wife’s  brass  in  Depden  Church. 

Jermyn  of  Rushbrook. 


-A  rme,  da.  of  Sir  Robt.  Drury,  = 
of  Hawstead,  co.  Suff.,  2d 
wife ;  held  Depden  for  life ; 
bur.  at  Depden,  1572  ;  brass 
and  M.I.  in  the  church. 


-Sir  George  Waldegrave,  of 
Smallbridge  in  Bures,  co. 
Suff.  Will,  P.C.C.  6  July 
1528 ;  represented  ou  his 
wife’s  brass  in  Depden  Ch. 


l 

John  Jermyn,  of  Dep-; 
den,  Esq.,  elder  son  by 
Anne  Drury.  Inq.  p.m. 
5  Jas. ;  bur.  at  Depden, 
25  Nov.  1606. 


John  Jermyn,  2d  son, 
living  at  Camden’s 
Visitn.  of  Suffolk, 
1612  ;  bapt.  at  Dep¬ 
den,  1565. 


Mary,  da.  of  Lionel 
Talmache,  Esq.,  of 
Helmingham,  co. 
Suff. ;  bur.  at  Dep¬ 
den,  6  Aug.  1606. 


Thomas  Jermyn,  senr., 
of  Depden,  gent., 
younger  son.  Will, 
Arch.  Subd.  Feb.  1580, 
prob.  1581  ;  ob.  s.p. 


Sir  William  Walde- 
grave,  son  &  heir ; 
d.  Dec.  1554.  Will, 
P.C.C.  34  More  1554. 
M.I.  in  Bures  Ch. 


- r- j-- - 

George  Walde¬ 
grave,  2d  son. 

Edward  Walde¬ 
grave,  3d  son. 


Anne,  mar.  to  Henry 
Bures,  of  Acton,  Esqr. 

Phyllis,  mar.  Thomas 
Higham,  Esqr. 


Francis  & 
Edmund 
Jermyn, 
died  be¬ 
fore  1612. 


Anne,  bapt.  1556  ;  mar. 
1588  Thomas  Burlz,  who 
made  Will  P.C.C.  1625. 
Had  son  Jermyn  Burlz. 


Suzan,  mar. 
to  .  .  .  Ne- 
vill,  of  co. 
Lincoln. 
Camden. 


T 


Martha,'  mar.  Stephen 
Delapiend.  Camden. 
Her  son,  Jermyn  Dela¬ 
piend,  bapt.  at  Depden 
1590. 


Sarah,  mar.  to 
....  Wright, 
of  Norfolk. 
Camden. 


- 1 

Elizabeth, 
bapt.  1559. 

Lionel,  bapt. 
1557,  d.  1562. 


.  dau.  of— Thomas  Jermyn,  of  Depden,  Esqr.,=Sarah,  da.of  JohnStephens 
.  .  .  Harris,  of  bapt.  there  1561;  aged  46  at  his  of  Althorn,  in  Essex.  Harl. 

father’s  death.  Admon.,  P.C.C.  5  MS.  1110,  fo.  113 ;  theBlois 
July  1617,  to  Sarah,  his  relict.  and  Jermyn  MSS.  Bur.  at 

=j=  Depden,  1641. 


Essex.  Harl 
MS.  1560. 


Hugo  Jermyn,  bapt. 
at  Depden  1566. 


Dorothy,  bapt. 
Depden  1558. 


at 


Henry  Jermyn,  of  Gif¬ 
fords  Manor  in  Wick- 
hambrook,  1612.  Cam¬ 
den. 


Sarah,  bapt.  at  Depden 
1 583 ;  was  mar.  there 
to  Richard  King  1607. 


Martha, bapt.  at  Depden  Anne,  bapt.  John,  bapt. 
1584  ;  was  mar.  there  to  at  Depden  at  Depden 
Geo.  Dalton  1604.  1585.  1599. 


i — | - - - 1 — | - 1 - 

Sarah,  b.  at  D.  1605.  Jane,  b.  at  D.  1608. 


Mary,  d. 
of  .  .  . 
King,  of 
Depden; 
d.  1615. 


Eliz.,  1612. 


Thomas;  bapt.  1606;  Anne,  bapt.  1609,  John,  1615. 
?  R.  of  Sheltonl633.  at  Depden. 


Robert  Jermyn,  sold 
his  patrimony  to  bap.  at  Depden  1587 ; 
Thomas  Coell,  his  mar.  1609.  Page.  She 
sister’s  husband.  had  with  other  issue 


Susanna  Jermyn, =j=Thomas  Coell, of  Ampton  Jane  Jermyn, mar. at  Dep 

and  after  of  Depden,  co.  den,  1600,  Thos.  Wright,  bap.  at  Depden 
Suff.,  gent.  Will,  Arch,  of  Kilverston,  co.  Norf.,  1601 ;  mar.  at  Shel- 
Sudb.,  proved  1650.  Esq.  His  Will,  P.C.C.  14  ton  1619. 

Brent, was  proved  1653. =p 


Elizabeth  Jermyn, =j=Henry  Shelton, of 
Shelton,  of  Nor¬ 
folk,  Esq.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  N.  1635. 


JermynCoell,ofBury  Sir  John  Coell,  of  Depden,1 
St.  Edmunds,  Gent.  Kt.,  entered  ped.  in  Suff. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  Visitn.  1664.  Will,  P.C.C. 
1677,  proved  1681.  54  Pett,  1688,  proved  1699. 


Jermyn=f=Anne,  dau.  of  Rich- 


Wright,  of 
Wangford, 

ard  Blatchford, 

Esq.,  of  Barning- 

Esq.,  of  Bexwell,  in 

ham,  co.  Suffolk  ; 

co.  Suffolk. 

Norfolk. 

ob.  1666. 

r - J 

r  J 

Maurice  Shelton, ^Elizabeth,  da.  of  Sir 
Robert  Kemp,  of  Gis- 
sing.  She  was  bur. 
at  Shelton,  1681. 


Cicely,  1st  wife,=rThomas  Coell,  Esq., —Anne,  2d  wife 
dau.  of  Sir  Hen¬ 
ry  Croftes,  of 
Little  Saxham, 
co.  Suffolk,  Kt. 


Sir  Robert  Wright,- =j=  Susan,  da.  of 


of  Depden.  .Will, 

executrix  to 

Kt.,  Chief  Justice  ; 

Matthew  Wren, 
Bishop  of  Ely, 

mar. at  Barning- 

P.C.C.  211  Lort,  3 

Sir  John  Coell, 

entered  ped.  in 

ham,  1669;  ob. 

Oct.,  proved  26  Oct. 
1698. 

1699. 

Suff.  Visitn.  1664. 

2d  wife. 

1695. 

L - n 

r - — 1 

r 

J 

Sarah  Shelton, =j=Robert  Suckling, 

Esq.,  of  Woodton, 
Norfolk.  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  1707. 


Richard  Thornhill, =j=Frances  Coell,  sole  dau.  and 


of  Ollantigh,  co. 
Kent,  Esq.  Page. 


heir ;  devisee,  1688,  of  her 
grandfather,  Sir  John  Coell. 


Robert  Wright,  emigrated 
to  South  Carolina.  Page’s 
Hist,  of  Suffolk. 


Maurice  Suckling,  D.D.,  Rector  ofq=Anne,  da.  of  Sir 


Barsham,  Suffolk  ;  Prebendary  of 
Westminster;  ob.  1730. 


Coell  Thornhill,  son  and  heir,  sold 
Depden  to  Hutchison  Mure,  of 
Great  Saxham,  who  died  1794. 


Charles  Turner, 
of  Warham.Norf. 


Catherine  Suckling,  b.  at  Barsham,  1725  ;=pRev.  Edmund  Nelson,  Rec-  William  ^Elizabeth 


mar.  at  Beccles,  1749;  died  at  Burnham 
Thorpe,  1767. 


tor  of  Burnham  Thorpe ; 
d.  1802. 


Suckling, 
Esq.,  2d  s. 


Browne, 
m.  1760. 


William  Nelson,  D.D.,  b.=T=Sarah,  dau.  of 


1757 ;  created  1st  Earl 
Nelson,  1806;  bur.  in  St. 
Paul’s  Cathedral  1835. 


the  Rev.  Hen. 
Yonge,  mar. 
1786,1st  wife. 


/N 


See  pedigree  p.  206. 


Horatio,  Viscount 
Nelson  of  the  Nile; 
b.  1758  ;  killed  at 
Trafalgar,  1805 ; 
bur.  in  St.  Paul’s 
Cathedral. 


Susanna  Nelson,=f=Thomas 


born  1753;  mar. 
at  Burnham 
Thorpe,  1780  ; 
bur.  there  1813. 


Bolton, 
b.  1752; 
d.  1834. 


Catherine  Nel¬ 
son,  b.  1767  ; 
mar.  Geo.  Mat- 
cham.  She  d. 
1842. 


Colonel  Wm.T. 
Suckling,  bn. 
1721,  d.  1833, 
bur.  at  Bath. 


A 


Weybrew, 
m.  1787, 
d.  1848. 


A 


See  pedigree  p.  205. 


JERMYN  OF  RUSHBROOK. 


257 


Srrmgn  of  i?odd;am. 


Sir  Ambrose  Jermyn,  of  Rushbrook,  co.  Suffolk  ;  lord  of  the  Manors=f=Anne,  da.  and  coheir  of  George  Heveningham, 


of  Bacons,  co.  Essex,  and  Hockham,  Norfolk, 
try,  proved  1577  ;  had  with  other  issue — 


Will,  P.C.C.  15  Daugh 


Esq.,  1st  wife. 
21  Jan.  1567. 


She  was  buried  at  Rushbrook, 


Sir  Robert  Jermyn,  of=f=Judith,  da.  of  Ambrose  Jermyn,  Esq.,  3d  son  (Cand-- j=Anne,  da.  and  coheir  of 


Rushbrook,  Kt.,  lord  of  the 
Manor  of  Hockham.  Will, 
P.C.C.  56  Lawe,  1614; 
names  Ambrose  Jermyn, 
his  brother.  ^ 


S  i  r  George  ler)  ;  a  recusant  1592,  Hatfield  MSS., 
Biagge,  sister  iv,  268  ;  described  also  as  of  Hockham 
of  Sir  Henry.  Rushbrook,  and  Stanton ;  sold  Bacons 
Manor  to  the  Mildmays;  bur.  at  Rush¬ 
brook,  5  June  1621. 


John  Jermyn, 
ob.  caelebs. 
Candler,. 


Anthony  Jermyn, 
slain  at  the  siege 
of  Breda. 


Thomas  Jermyn, 
killed  in  a  duel 
at  Newmarket. 


Edward  Jermyn,  son  of 
Mr.  Ambrose,  bur.  at 
Rushbrook  18  Dec.  1660. 


John  Paston,  of  Hunt- 
ingfield.  Her  sister  mar. 
Sir  Edward  Coke,  the 
lawyer.  Her  Will,  P.C.C. 
80  Hele,  proved  1626. 


Anthony  Jermyn,  of  Rush¬ 
brook,  Esq.,  ob.  s.p.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  1606 ;  bequests 
to  Edmond,  eld.  son  of  Am¬ 
brose  Jermyn,  his  brother, 
Wm.Jermyn, of  Stanton, etc. 


Anne,  Susanna,  mar.  John  Grimes,  of  Peckham, 
unm.  Surrey,  brother  to  Sir  Thomas  Grimes, 
1626.  Kt. 


Edmund  Jermyn,  of  Hockham/ 
eldest  son;  named  1606  in  Will 
,of  Anthony  Jermyn,  his  uncle. 


=Letitia  William  Jermyn,  executor  to  his  mother  Bridget,  mar.  Walter  Mildmay,  Esq.,  of  Bad- 

Goldingham.  1626;  P  of  Stanton,  co.  Suffolk,  1606  ;  ?  dow,  1634,  when  he  entered  pedigree  in  the 

Candler.  bur.  at  Rushbrook  1642.  Essex  Visitation. 


Catherine  Jermyn  ( Cand¬ 
ler ),  named  1626  in  her 
grandmother’s  Will. 


Susanna,  living  1626.  In  the  Essex  Visitations,  Harl. 
Soc.,  p.  485,  Richard  Sayer,  son  of  Sir  George,  mar. 
Susan,  da.  of  Edmund  Jermyn,  of  Rushbrook. 


- 1 

Dorothea 

Jermyn. 

Candler. 


1.  Ambrose 
Mildmay. 


- I - 

2.  Walter 
Mildmay. 


Judith  ux  Benja¬ 
min  Wallinger  of 
the  Pipe  Office. 


•l 

ipetittjm,  3frrmgn  of  Sturston  anti  <25Urst  Coffts. 


Sir  Ambrose  Jermyn  of  Rushbrooke  in  co.  Suff. . 
West  Tofts,  co.  Norff.,  and  Sturston  Manor. 


had  Bigots  Manor  in -rAnne  da.  Sp  heir  of  Sir  George  Heveningham, 
1  wife. 


Edmond  Jermyn  of  Sturston  in  co.  Norff.,  Esq.,  4  son,  Lord  of  Bigot’s  Manor ,=rDorothy  da.  of  Sir  Wm  Spring  of  Pakenham  in  co.  Suff.,  by  Anne, 
in  West  Tofts.  Will,  P.C.C.  3  Lewyn,  7  Dee.  1597,  proved  7  Jan.  following,  his  wife,  da.  of  Sir  Thomas  Kitson  ;  mar.  at  Pakenham  1577. 


1.  William  Jermyn,  of  Sturston,  Esq. 
Manors  of  Sturston  and  West  Tofts. 
Inq.  p.m.  4  Jas. ;  ob.  s.p.  12  Dec. 
3  Jas. ;  estates  to  his  brother  John. 


2.  John  Jermyn,  of  West  Tofts, 
Esq.,  aged  25  in  1506  ;  heir  to  his 
brother.  Will,  11  May  1627.  Inq. 
p.m.  3  Car.  and  8  Car. ;  ob.  30  June 
1627,  s.p. 


3  Edmund,  4  Ambrose  and  5 
George,  dead  apparently  in 
1627,  when  John  Jermin, 
their  brother,  made  hisWill. 


6,  Talmach  and  7,  Clement  Jermyn, 
named  in  the  Will  of  John  Jer¬ 
myn,  their  brother,  1627  ;  but  ap¬ 
parently  dead  in  1656. 


5.  Thomas  Jermyn,  of  West  Tofts,  co.  Norff.,  Esq./ 
heir  to  John,  his  brother,  1627,  and  then  aged  40. 
Will,  P.C.C.  173  Wootton,  5  Nov.  1656;  probt.  13 
Feb.  1657  ;  to  be  bur.  in  the  church.  M.I. 


yf-Anne,  his  widow,  bom  at  Brooke 
in  Norfolk;  made  Will  (Arch. 
Norff.)  4  Sept.  1665  ;  to  be  bur.  in 
Brook  church ;  was  of  Ovington 
1665.  Was  she  a  second  wife  ? 


Elizabeth  ux  Sr 
Rob.  Wynde  of 
South  Wotton  : 
eldest  da.  1597- 


Judeth,  second  dan., 
named  in  her  fa¬ 
ther’s  will  1597 ;  mar. 
.  .  .  Rouse,  of  ...  . 
(Candler.) 


- 1 — l 

Susan 

Jermyn. 

Sarah 

Jermyn. 


John  Jermyn,  apparently  only  son,  1656  ;=rEliza- 
heir  to  his  father  ;  manors  in  West  Tofts ;  beth, 
in  failure  of  issue,  these  to  pass  to  Thos.  living 
Jermyn,  of  Rushbrook.  1656. 


Dorothy  ux.  Edward  Sheene,  of 
Wymondham,  co.  Norff.,  gent., 
who  made  Will,  P.C.C.,  pro.  27 
May  1658.  Lands  in  Hoxne,  Suff. 


Mrs.  Elizabeth  Salter,  Anne  Towneshend,  niece 
niece  and  devisee  of  and  devisee  of  Thomas 
Thomas  Jermyn  1666.  Jermyn  1656  ;  dau.  of  his 
“  sister  Towneshend.” 


Elizabeth  Jermyn,  devisee  of  her  grandfather  1656, 
not  then  set.  15.  To  have  lands  in  Cranworth. 


Jermyn  Sheene,  only 
son,  1658. 


Ann  Sheene,  ?  wife  of  Richard  Turner, 
of  Ovington,  Norfolk,  1665. 


Sarah  Sheene, 
living  1568. 

2  i 


25.8 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Jftarn  JsrntMt,  1547. 

Marie  Jermyn,  in  her  will  proved  in  the  Consistory  Court  at  Norwich,  7th  January  1545, 
desires  to  be  buried  in  the  church  of  St.  Andrew  before  oure  Ladie’s  aultare.  She  gives  bequests 
to  Margaret  Jermyn,  daughter  of  her  brother  Robert  Jermyn  ;  her  brother  Fraunces  Jermv  [sic]  ; 
her  brother  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn;  her  neve  Ambrose  Jermyn  and  her  nece  Margaret  Gardiner; 
and  appoints  Mr.  Frauncys  Jermyn  her  executor. 


Mill  of  Jlntte  Jrnnon,  1665. 

Anne  Jermyn  of  Ovington  in  the  county  of  Norfolk,  widow  of  Thomas  Jermyn  late  of 
Tofts,  Esquire,  4th  Septr  1665.  To  be  buried  by  the  bodies  of  her  nearest  friends  and  relatives 
in  the  parish  church  of  the  town  of  Brooke,  in  the  said  county,  where  she  was  born.  She 
leaves  her  lands  in  Ovington  and  Saham  Tony  to  Richard  Turner  of  Ovington  and  Anne  his 
wife,  her  grandchild.  She  also  bequeaths  ten  pounds  to  Thomas  Wright  of  Downham  in  the 
county  of  Suffolk  Esquire.  Proved  in  the  Archdeaconry  of  Norwich. 


Mill  of  ^ir  Joljn  ttodl,  1688. 

I  Sr  John  Coell  of  Depden  in  Suff.  Kn*  doe  this  2d  day  of  June  1688  make  this  my 
last  will.  On  the  marryage  of  my  sonne  Thomas  Coell  with  his  present  wife  I  have  setled  all 

my  MannorB  in  the  County  of  Suff.  to  such  vses  as  by  the  Conveyance  thereof  may  more  at 

large  appear.  I  appoint  my  sonne  Thomas  Coell  &  my  daughter  his  wife  Executors  &  charge 
them  to  pay  to  the  (legacies)  hereinafter  named.  To  my  grandchild  Frances  Coell  £2,000  at  her 
day  of  marryage.  To  my  sonne  in  law  Edmund  Sheppard ;  my  sonne  Francis  Farnaby ;  my 

grandchild  John  Sheppard ;  and  my  sister  Heigham.  To  the  poor  of  Depden  £20.  To  the 

church  of  Depden  my  Communion  Plate.  To  my  cozen  John  Dalton  and  to  every  of  my  cozen 
germains  that  shall  be  liveing  at  my  decease,  to  each  a  Ring.  To  my  honoured  friend  Martin 
Folks  Esqr  a  Ring.  To  my  cozens  Thomas  Wright  of  Downham,  John  Stafford,  Leonard  Tyllot 
of  Bury  <fe  his  sister  Frank.  To  my  sonne  Farnaby  the  embroydered  Comon  Prayer  booke  with 
the  Arms  of  his  late  grandfather,  late  Bishopp  of  Durham.  Residue  of  estate  to  sonne  and 
daughter  Coell  whom  I  make  my  Executors. 

Whereas  some  encroachments  vpon  the  Corhons  of  Depden  have  been  made  for  my  par¬ 
ticular  benefitt  I  doe  give  vnto  the  poor  of  Depden  £20  besides  the  £20  given  to  such  as  were 
servants  to  me,  my  ffather  or  mother. 

Item  I  give  vnto  my  cosen  Sarah  Shelton,  widow  of  .  .  .  Hooper  gent,  and  to  my  cosen 
Thomas  King.  To  my  daughter  in  law  for  a  legacy  £300  for  her  care  and  kindness  in  the 
education  of  my  grandaughter  Frances  Coell. 

Probatum  decimo  quinto  die  Aprilis  1699  juramenti  An  rue  Coell  executricis  superstitis  in 
dicto  Testamenti  nominat.  Thomas  Coell  Ar  ffilius  et  alter  executor  antequam  onus  executionis 
in  se  acceptasset  morte  obijt.  P.C.C.  54  Pett. 


(Hartleys  of  Neuron. 


Clirtmllirr. 


Armorial  Hearings. 

The  Arms  of  Garneys  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1561  were  Argent,  a  chevron  engrailed 
Azure,  between  three  escallops  Sable.  Harl.  MS.  155.  They  were  allowed  at  the  Suffolk  Visita¬ 
tion  of  1664,  with  a  crescent  for  difference,  to  John  Garneys,  of  Mickfield,  who  derived  from 
Thomas,  the  second  surviving  son  of  John  Garneys  and  Elizabeth  Sulyard.  Harl.  MS.  1085. 
They  are  carved  upon  the  marble  slab  which  covers  his  grave  within  the  altar  rails  at  Mickfield, 
impaled  with  those  of  his  wife,  Elizabeth  Atherold — Per  pale  Sable  and  Argent,  a  lion  passant 
counterchanged.  They  occur,  too,  upon  the  monuments  and  inscriptions  to  his  descendants  in 
Kenton  Church. 

The  Crest  of  Garneys  of  Kenton  was  an  arm,  erased  at  the  elbow  and  erect  proper, 
holding  a  scymeter  Argent,  hilt  and  pomel  Or,  the  blade  marked  with  blood  in  three  places. 
Edmondson’s  Heraldry.  The  mermaid  proper,  holding  her  comb  and  mirror,  was  allowed  to  Nicholas 
and  Edward  Garneys,  of  Redisham,  also  descendants  of  John  Garneys  and  Elizabeth  Sulyard,  in 
1664.  Harl.  MS.  1085.  In  Camden’s  Suffolk  Visitation,  1612,  her  hair  and  comb  are  described 
as  golden,  and  her  mirror  and  tail  as  silver.  Harl.  MS.  1820,  fol.  1/.3. 

For  further  information  relating  to  this  house  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  Garneys 
section  in  the  first  volume  of  this  work  (pp.  189 — 194),  where  pedigrees  of  all  the  recognised 
branches  will  be  found,  and  descriptions  of  the  quarterings  brought  into  the  family  by  the 
heiresses  of  Ramsay,  Franceys,  Sulyard  and  Bacon,  of  Baconsthorpe. 


Will  of  William  ®amp,  1421. 

In  dei  nomine  Amen.  xiij°  die  ffebruarij,  Anno  Regni  Regis  Henrici  quinti  post  con- 
questum  octauo,  Ego  Willielmus  Garneys  de  Stoktone,  armiger,  condo  testamentum  meum.  .  .  . 
Lego  corpus  meum  ad  sepeliendum  in  ecciia  de  Geldestone.  Lego  summo  altari  ecclesie  de  Re¬ 
desham  parua  iij8  iiijd.  Lego  Petro  Garneys  fratri  meo  optimum  equum  meum  cum  optimo  gladio 
meo  vocato  Bastard.  Volo  quod  mille  missse  celebrentur  pro  anima  mea  quam  cito  poterint  post 
decessum  meum.  Lego  Radulpho  filio  meo  vnum  ciphum  stantem  vocat  le  note  deaurat  cum  vna 
pecia  argenti,  sibi  liberand  cum  pervenerit  ad  legitimam  etatem.  Lego  Roberto  filio  meo  ch,  si 
idem  Robertus  gubernari  voluit  per  executores  meos,  et  aliter  non.  Lego  Margarete  filie  mee  ch, 
si  eadem  Margareta  gubernari  voluit  per  executores  meos.  Ordino  executores  meos  Petrum  Garneys 


260 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


armigerum,  Johannem  Bacon  armigerum,  Robertum  Palgraue,  Robertum  Reue  capellanum,  Johannera 
Haldene,  et  Wiftm  Phelyppe  militem  superuisorem  testi  mei.  Yolo  quod  statim  post  decessum 
ineum  feoffati  mei  feoffabunt  Elizabeth  vxorem  meam  de  manerio  de  Stoktone  et  Berys  in  Gel- 
destone,  cum  alijs  terris,  per  finein  leuat  in  Cur  Sni  Regis,  pro  termino  Vite  sue  :  et  post 
mortem  pfate  Elizabeth  feoffati  mei  qui  superstes  sunt  soluerint  cc1*  ad!  maritand  Robertum  filium 
meum  et  Margaretam  filiam  meam.  Et  quod  statim  post  debita  mea  solut  feoffati  mei  ffeoffabunt 
Radulphum  Garneys  filium  meum  primogenitum  in  manerijs  terris  et  tenementis  habend  et  tenend 
eodem  Radulpho  et  her  de  corpore  suo  imppetuu.  Et  pro  defectu  heredum  de  corpore  ipsius 

i  , 

Radi  remanere  inde  Roberto  filio  meo  et  heredibus  de  corpore  suo.  Si  pdcus  Robertus  sine 
hered  de  corpore  obierit,  tunc  jldca  maneria  terr  et  tenta  reutantur  predictis  feoffati ;  et 
recipiant  exit  quousque  quingente  marce  de  manerijs  &c.  levaverint  [sic].  Et  statim  post  recep- 
tionem  quingentarum  marcarum  volo  qd  ffdci  feoffati  mei  feoffabunt  Margaretam  filiam  meam 
in  manerijs,  terris  et  tenementis,  habend  et  tenend  pdict  maner  sibi  et  heredibus  de  corpore.  Ita 
qd  si  pdca  Margareta  obierit  sine  herede  de  corpore,  [idea  maneria  reuertantur  et  remaneant  in 
manibus  suis,  et  exitus  recipiant  cu  executoribus  meis  donee  mille  marcas  inde  reciperint  ad  dis- 
ponend  pro  animabus  Willielmi  Garneys  et  Elizabeth  vxoris  eius,  MatiH  By  got,  quondam  comitisse 
Norff,  dni  Radulphi  filij  eiusdem  Comitissse,  dni  Johannis  filii  eius  dni  Radulphi,  dni  Radi,  dni 
Johanni.s  filij  eius,  dni  Radulphi  filij  eius,  Robti  Garneys  et  Aueline  vxoris  eius,  Johannis  Garneys 
et  Johanne  vxoris  sue,  et  pro  quibus  pffatus  Wittm  facere  deprecavi  tenetur.  Ita  qd  si  rect  heres 
sine  hered  de  corporib^  suis  obierit,  maneria  remanere  inde  rectis  heredibus  fidci  Willielmi  im- 
ppetuum.  Volo  qd  feoffati  meo  feoffabunt  Elizabeth  vxem  meam  in  manerijs  meis  de  Redisham, 
Barshames  et  Weston  et  in  alijs  terris  iacent  in  hundredo  de  Waynford  que  unquam  fuerunt 
Edi  de  Redesham,  et  Willi  de  Barsham,  ac  in  omnibus  terris  in  hundred  ffdict  que  Robertus 
Garneys  pa?  meus  ad  vsum  meum  perquisiuit :  sub  condicione  sequente ;  viz  :  nisi  Elizabeth  vxor 
mea  maritum  acciperit ;  tunc  volo  qd  jffati  feoffati  mei  feoffabunt  predictum  Robertum  fit  meum 
in  Manerio  de  Westone — et  pro  defectu  exitus  Roberti  remanere  inde  Radulpho  filio  meo.  Ita 
qd  si  jidictus  Radulphus  obierit  sine  herede  de  corpore  suo  et  si  contingat  jM  Margaretam  obire 
non  maritat,  qd  tunc  jfdict  summa  in  forma  jfdca  leuat  fuit  et  distribut  per  discrecoem  meorum 
feoffatorum  et  executorum.  Assignavi  et  dedi  quandam  parcellam  marisci  vocat  le  Park  in  villa  de 
Wyrlyngham  Petro  Garneys  armigero  fratri  meo  imperpetuum.  Si  contingat  Margaretam  filiam 
meam  obire  sine  herede  de  corpore  maneria  de  Weston,  Redesham  et  Barshame  remanere  Petro 
Garneys  fratri  meo  et  her  de  corpore  imppetuum.  Volo  qd  ipsi  quibus  dedi  omnia  bona  et  catalla 
mea  p  scriptum  meum  inde  confectum  pmittant  Elizabeth  vxorem  meam  gaudere  omnia  hustili 
menta  et  vtensilia  domus  habitacionis  mee  in  Geldeston,  et  omnia  ornamenta  et  iocalia  eidem 
vxori  ptineh.  Indenturis  quatriptitis  penes  Robtum  Palgraue  vnum  feoffatorum  et  executorum 
meorum  remanent  sigillum  meum  apposui  :  dat  apud  Geldestone  tercio  die  ffebr  Anno  Regni  Regis 
Henrici  qumti  post  conquestum  octauo. 

Probatum  fuit  apud  Norwicum  sexto  die  Aprilis  1425.  Registrum  Hyrnynge  in  Archiuo 
Registrarij  Norwicensis,  pte  2da  fol.  136  b.  Hail.  MS.  10,  fo.  238  b. 

Elizabeth  the  wife  of  the  testator,  who  brought  him  the  Manors  of  Geldestone,  Stokton, 
etc.,  in  Norfolk,  was  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  Ralph  Bygot  who  died  in  1415,  who  was  son  of 
Sir  John  Bygot,  the  son  of  Ralph,  the  son  of  Ralph,  the  son  of  John,  the  son  of  Sir  Ralph 
Bygot,  the  younger  son  of  Hugh  Bygot,  Earl  of  Norfolk,  and  Matilda  his  wife,  the  daughter 
and  coheir  of  Wm.  Marescall,  senr.,  Earl  of  Pembroke.  Thus  Sir  Symond  Dewes’  note,  compiled 
from  the  pedigree  in  the  will  and  from  other  sources. 


GARNRYS  OF  KENTON,  CHEVALUKR. 


261 


(Hill  nf  John  ffiarnm,  1522. 

John  Garneys  of  Kenton,  co.  Suff,  Esq.  20th  July  14  H.  8.  To  be  buried  in  his  chapell 
on  the  south  syde  of  Kenton  church  late  by  him  edified.  Elizabeth  his  wife,  Lionel  Talmage,' 
Esq.,  Edmund  Poley,  and  John  Garneys,  his  son,  to  be  executors.  The  ffeoffees  of  certain  of 
his  lands  to  pay  10  marks  to  an  honest  priest  of  good  life  to  sing  his  masses  dayly  in  his 
chapell  of  St.  John,  on  the  south  side  of  Kenton  church,  and  to  pray  for  the  soules  of  him 
the  said  John  Garneys,  Elizabeth  his  wife,  and  all  his  children,  Thomas  Garneys  his  ffader  and 
Margarete  his  moder,  his  brother  and  sister,  Peter  Garneys  and  Anne  his  wife,  Hugh  Fraunceys 
and  Phelip  his  wife,  Robert  Garneys  and  William  Garneys  his  ancestors,  Roger  Drury,  and 
Edward  Grymstone  his  sone  in  la  we ;  and  to  pay  xx8  to  his  daughter  Agneys,  now  professed 
at  Brosyard  Abbey  for  her  life.  Feoffes  to  convey  his  manors  of  Hamonds  in  Mekelfelde  and 
the  Stonhams  [etc.]  to  John  Garneys  his  second  son,  with  remainder,  falling  issue,  successively 
to  William  Garneys  his  son,  Thomas  Garneys  his  sone  and  his  right  heirs.  The  ffeoffees  of  his 
lands  in  Mettingham  to  stand  seized  thereof  to  the  use  of  Thomas  his  son,  and  the  heirs  of 
his  body.  The  Manors  of  Redisham,  Barsham,  and  Weston  to  Robert  Garneys  his  son;  with 

remainder,  failing  issue,  successively,  to  John,  William,  Thomas  his  sons,  and  his  own  right 

heirs.  His  manors  of  (1)  Luddon  and  Kenton,  after  his  decease,  to  Robert  his  son  and  Ann 
his  wife,  with  remainder  in  like  manner  as  above.  Annuity  of  xH  to  John  Garneys,  son  of 
Robert  Garneys,  fpr  nine  years. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  138  Briggs. 

The  chapel  of  St.  John,  which  the  testator  had  “late  edified  and  caused  to  be  made  on 

the  south  syde  of  Kenton  church,”  continued  to  be  the  burial  place  of  many  of  his  descendants, 

until  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century. 


Mill  of  Militant  ffianwga,  1525. 

The  xviijth  day  of  September,  in  the  xvijth  yere  of  King  Henry  the  viijth,  I  William 
Garneys  of  the  parishe  of  Alhalowes  in  Bredstrete,  hole  of  mynde,  lawdes  be  to  god,  do  make 
my  testament  in  this  fourme.  I  bequeth  my  soule  to  almighty  god,  to  our  lady  saint  Mary 

and  to  all  the  Saintes  in  hevyn ;  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  parishe  Churche  of  Badley.  I 

bequeth  to  my  suster  Jenney  fyve  poundes ;  to  Elizabeth  Pooley  xls ;  to  Dorathe  Pooley  xl8 ;  to 

the  Rode  light  of  the  pishe  of  Alhalowe  xx8 ;  to  the  brotherhed  which  I  am  of  vi8  viijd.  To 

my  cosyn,  Sir  Thomas  Garneys,  clerk  xx8.  To  my  brother  Thomas  Garneys  a  russet  gowne 

furred,  and  a  doblet  of  satyn.  To  my  prentice  a  blak  gowne  of  a  lower  price.  To  my  cosyn 

Swlyard  of  Lincolns  Inne  a  blak  gown.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  I  geve  them  to  my  mother, 
whome  I  ordeyn  to  be  myn  executrix,  and  my  brother  John  Garneys  and  my  brother  Pooley 
myn  executors  also,  and  they  to  distribute  them  for  the  welthe  of  my  soule.  Witnesse  hereof 

Robert  Strode,  Chapleyn,  and  Jane  Jenny  widowe.  Probatum  xvij  die  Nouembris  1525  Juramento 

Joannis  Garneys  executoris. 


P.C.C.  39  Bodfelde. 


262 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


®0U1  of  (Elijabdb  ®ant£j)S,  1557, 

I  Elizabeth  Garneys,  wydowe,  late  the  wife  of  John  Games  of  Kenton,  Esquier,  the  xviij 
daye  of  Marche,  1537,  do  make  and  ordeigne  this  my  last  will,  as  here  followythe.  Furst  I 
bequeth  my  soule  to  almighty  god,  to  our  Ladye  Sainte  Marye,  and  to  all  the  celestyall  com- 
panye  in  hevyne ;  and  my  bodye  to  be  buryed  in  the  churche  of  Badley,  before  our  ladye’s 
aulter,  by  my  sonne  William,  and  a  marble  stone  to  be  layde  over  me.  I  bequeth  to  my  sonne 
Roberte  a  goblett  of  syluer,  wl  a  couer  pcell  gilte,  a  counter  poynte  wrought  wl  butterflyes,  and 
xxvi*  viijd  for  a  gowne.  Also  I  giue  to  my  doughter  yn  lawe  his  wif  my  brode  dyaper  clothe 
[and]  to  my  sonne  Roberte’s  doughter  fyve  poundes.  I  give  Margarett,  my  sonne  Roberte’s 
doughter,  x1'  to  hir  maryagge.  To  John  Garneys  my  graundchylde  a  standinge  cuppe  gilt.  To 
my  sonne  Thomas  Garneys  twentye  poundes  ;  also  a  siluer  salte  w1  a  couer  pcell  gilte  &  six 
siluer  spones  wl  sharpe  knoppes.  To  my  doughter  Grymston  a  gilt  goblett  and  three  angell 
nobles.  To  my  doughter  Powley,  my  doughter  Cotten,  my  doughter  Wyseman,  my  doughter 
Agnes,  nonne  of  Brosyard,  my  sonne  Powley  [and  to]  Margerye  Poley  my  graundchild.  I  give 
tenne  poundes  to  be  bestowyd  on  repayrynge  on  the  highe  waye  betwyxte  Nedeham  markett  and 
Stowe.  The  Residewe  of  my  goodes  to  be  distrybuted  by  myne  executours  for  the  wealthe  of 
my  soule,  whome  I  ordeyne  my  sonne  in  lawe  Edmonde  Poley,  John  Garneys  my  graundechilde 
and  Thomas  Garneys  my  sonne. 

Probatum  tertio  die  Maij,  1539,  Juramento  procur  executo^  supra  noiatoj. 

P.C.C.  13  Crum  well. 


Mill  of  ®Ijomas  ®arn egs,  1547. 

The  xxvith  daye  of  Novembr,  1566,  Thomas  Garneys  of  Kenton  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke 
•esquire.  My  bodye  to  be  buried  in  the  sowthe  yle  of  Kenton  churche.  I  will  that  Fraunces  my 
wief  shall  haue  my  Mannor  called  Baynardes  in  Spexsale,  and  also  my  Mannor  called  Goodes  in 
Wilbey  for  the  terme  of  her  lyef  vppon  condicon  that  she  shall  not  clayme  any  right  of  dowre 
in  any  other  of  my  Mannors  or  landes ;  the  remaynder  after  her  decease  to  the  righte  heires  of 
me  foreuor.  Executors  shall  take  the  yssues  of  all  other  my  Mannors  and  landes,  that  is  to 
wite  of  the  moyetie  of  the  Mannor  of  Bakons  in  Loddon  and  of  the  Manno1'  of  Bakons  in 
Bakonsthorpe  in  Nor  ft'.,  and  of  the  iij,le  pte  of  my  Mannor  of  Cranysforde  in  Suif.  and  of  all 
my  landes  in  Brundishe  in  Suff.,  and  of  my  Mannors  of  Netherhall  in  Eye,  Cobdosse  in  greate 
Wheltham,  and  of  my  other  landes  in  Kenton,  Aishefeilde,  and  Mounkesham  in  the  saide  countie  of 
Suffolk  duringe  the  terme  of  xvie“  yeres  to  suche  vses  as  ben  hereafter  expressed.  That  is  to 
•saye,  if  Fraunces  my  wief  shall  be  delyvered  of  a  sonne,  then  my  executors  shall  paye  to 
Elizabeth  my  daughter  at  her  age  of  xviijen  yeres  sixe  hundreth  poundes  and  to  either  of  my 
sisters,  Elizabeth  and  Anne  Garneys  one  hundreth  poundes.  If  my  wief  be  not  enseinte  with  a 
sonne,  then  Nichas  Garneys  my  brother  shall  have  cccc11.  And  yf  my  wief  be  enseynte  with 
a  daughter,  Elizabeth  my  daughter  shall  haue  but  c1',  and  said  daughter  the  other  ch  at  her  age 
of  xviij  yeres.  I  bequeath  to  Fraunces  Bedingfeylde,  one  of  the  doughters  of  Anthony  Beding- 
felde  xl1'  and  to  Fraunces  Rookwod  daughter  of  Ede  Rookwoode  vu  and  to  Thomas  Rookwoode 


GARNEYS  OF  KENTON.,  CHEVALLIER. 


26S 


my  godsonne  son  of  the  sayde  Ede  xx11  and  to  Thomas  Brampton  my  godsonne  xxh,  and  to- 
Frances  Brampton  his  sister  x*‘  and  to  Anne  Brampton  and  Elizabeth  Brampton,  his  twoe  other 
sisters  to  either  of  them  v*j,  and  to  Alice  Kettleberghe  my  kyneswoman  xu  and  to  Charles 
Wisman  gent.  xx1'.  I  will  that  all  my  sayde  Mannors  and  other  premisses  before  willed  (except 
suche  as  ben  scituat  in  Kenton,  Aishefeilde  and  Mounkesham,  Aspall,  Debeham,  Wynston  and 
Thorpe),  after  sayde  term  of  xvien  yeres,  shall  remayne  to  my  righte  heires.  The  Mannors  before 
excepted  shall  remayne  to  theires  males  of  me  the  sayde  Thomas,  and  for  wante  of  suche  issue 
to  the  saide  Nichas  Garneys  my  brother  and  to  theires  males  of  his  body.  For  wante  of  suche 
remainder  to  John  Garneys  sonne  and  heire  of  Thomas  Garneys  late  of  Bealinges  in  Suff.,  <k  to 
his  heires  males,  and  for  wante  of  suche  to  my  cosen  Richard  Garneys  of  Mendlesham  ife  to 
heires  male  of  his  body,  ifc  failing  suche  to  the  right  heires  of  me  for  eu.  My  Mannors  of  Weston, 
Redsham  and  Barsham,  co  Suff.  My  capitall  mease  called  Kenton  hall.  Sr  John  Sulyarde  my 
ffather  in  lawe  to  be  supvisor,  and  Edward  Sulyard  esquire  my  brother  in  lawe  and  Ede  Bed- 
ingfeylde  of  Hynderingham  in  Norff.  esquire  to  be  executors. 

Probatum  xvii°  die  Octobris,  1567,  Jurato  Edwardi  Sulyard  et  Edmunde  Bedingfeylde. 

P.C.C.  29  Stonard. 

For  the  testator’s  descendants,  see  the  pedigrees  of  Garneys  of  Kenton  and  ffedenhani, 
Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  i,  191-192. 


Will  of  Joljn  ©arncgs,  1579. 

John  Garneys  of  Great  Bealings,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  23d  June  1579.  Unto  Nicholas  my 
sonne,  mesuages  and  lands  in  Mettingham,  Shipemedowe  and  Ilketshall,  with  remainder,  suc¬ 
cessively,  failing  issue,  to  John  Garneys,  sonne  to  Nicholas  Garneys,  of  Kenton,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq., 
my  cosen  Edward  Garneys  brother  of  said  John,  Thomas  Garneys  brother  of  said  Edward, 
Charles  Garneys  sonne  and  heir  to  said  Nicholas  Garneys,  Esq.,  and  to  the  right  heirs  of  me. 
My  brothei-  in  law  James  Crisp  of  Debenham.  I  give  my  lands  in  Myckfield,  Aspall  Stonham, 
3z;c.,  after  decease  of  Anne  now  my  wife,  to  Nicholas  Garneys  my  sonne,  and  failing  issue  of 
his  body,  to  John  Garneys  sonne  of  Nicholas  Garneys  of  Kenton,  Esq.  [etc.,  etc.];  also  my 
tenement  in  Henley.  My  cosen  Nicholas  Garneys,  his  four  sonnes.  Nicholas  my  sonne  not  yet 
of  age.  My  cosen  Nicholas  Sherlande  of  London.  Cosens  Richard  Garneys  of  Boyland,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk,  Esqr,  and  Nicholas  Garneys  of  Kenton,  Esqr,  to  be  executors.  Proved  at  Norwich, 
14th  March  1583. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  Liber  “  Bate,”  fo.  75. 


Mill  uf  iitcljolas  ©armgs,  1652. 

The  second  day  of  November,  1652,  I  Nicholas  Garneis  of  Mickfield  in  the  County  of 
Suff.,  gent.,  doe  make  this  my  last  will.  My  messuage  called  Bennetts  in  Mickfield  shalbe  sold. 
My  executrix  shall  cause  to  be  paid  out  of  the  moneys  (so)  ariseing  these  seuerall  sumes : — 
Vnto  Nicholas  Garneis  my  sonne  ill 00.  Vnto  Edmund  Garneis  my  sonne  illOO.  Ynto  Frances 


■264 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ray  daughter  £100.  Also  vnto  Anne  ray  daughter  £40.  Executrix  shall  provide  for  Margaret 
my  daughter  and  keepe  her.  After  the  decease  of  my  executrix  I  comitt  her  vnto  my  sonne 
John  Garneis ;  he  to  giue  vnto  Thomas  Dade  Esq3,  my  wives  halfe  brother  sufficient  security  for 
the  orderly  providing  for  her  during  her  life.  I  doe  giue  vnto  Nicholas  Garneis,  sonne  of  my 
-sonne  John  Garneis,  and  vnto  William  Dowe  and  Audry  Dowe,  the  children  of  my  sonne  in 
law,  William  Dowe  of  Badley  gent.  ;  and  to  Elizabeth  Garnon,  daughter  of  my  sonne  in  la  we, 
J ohn  Garnon  of  Bacton  gent,  ffive  pounds  a  peece.  I  ordeyne  Audry  my  welbeloved  wife  sole 
executrix ;  to  whome  I  giue  all  my  goodes ;  she  to  provide  for  my  younger  children  vntill  receipt 
of  their  porcons. 

This  will  was  proved  at  Westminster  24th  Septr  1653  by  the  oath  of  Audrie  Garneis  the 

relict. 

P.C.C.  389  Brent. 


Mill  of  Jane  ®ant£g3,  1752. 

Jane  Garneys  of  Aspall  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  widow,  24th  March  1730.  I  appoint 
my  daughter  Jane  Chevallier  sole  executrix  of  this  will.  I  give  unto  Charles  Garneys,  eldest 
son  of  my  son  Wentworth  John  Garneys,  all  my  lands  in  Bedingfield.  Unto  my  daughter  Jane 
Chevallier  certain  mesuages  in  Bedingfield  and  Eye,  with  remainder,  should  she  decease  without 
surviving  issue,  to  Clement  Chevallier  mv  son  in  law,  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever.  Proved  in 
the  Bishop’s  Court  at  Norwich,  9th  March,  1732. 

By  his  will  (Arch.  Suff.),  dated  1691,  Nathaniel  Garneys  of  Kenton,  the  husband  of 
the  testatrix,  directed  that  his  lands  in  Bealings  and  Hasketon  should  be  sold  if  his  widow, 
assisted  by  her  father  Mr.  Jefferies,  could  not  pay  his  debts.  This  will  probably  account  for 
the  diminished  estate  of  his  descendants.  His  messuage  in  Wetheringset  he  devised  to  Went 
worth  John  Garneys,  his  son  and  heir. 


Mill  of  Charles  ©antm,  1765. 

Charles  Garneys  of  Kenton,  co.  Suffolk,  Gent.,  5th  Dec.  1765.  Unto  my  brother  Thomas 
Garneys  all  my  messuages,  lands  and  tenements  in  Bedingfield,  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever ;  he 
to  pay  £100  to  my  brother  John  Garneys,  or  if  he  die,  to  my  two  nieces  Elizabeth  Garneys 
and  Charlotte  Garneys,  daughters  of  the  said  John,  at  their  several  ages  of  one  and  twenty 
years.  To  my  sister  Catharine  the  wife  of  John  Darby  of  Diss,  surgeon.  The  rest  of  my  estate 
I  give  to  my  said  brother  Thomas  Garneys.  I  appoint  him  and  my  cousin  Temple  Chevallier 
of  Aspall  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  clerk,  executors  of  this  my  will.  Thomas  Garneys,  one  of 
the  executors,  was  sworn  6  July  1778,  and  on  the  7th  July  Temple  Chevallier,  clerk,  the  other 
executor. 


Arch.  Suffolk,  Will  Book,  1778,  fo.  82  b. 


GARNEYS  OF  KENTON,  CHEVALLIER. 


265 


6arnrgs  of  Henton  airti  JftfrMeUi. 


Aveline,  named  in  the  will- 
of  William  Garneys,  1421, 
and  probably  his  mother. 


Robert  Garneys,  Esq.,  of  Beccles ;  died  14  May= 
1411.  Inscription  formerly  in  Beccles  church. 
Weever.  Bought  Little  Redisham  Manor,  1394. 


^Catherine,  da.  of  .  .  .  Brooke.  Harl.  MS.  1103. 
(Da.  of  John  Blanchard,  Esq.,  of  Heveningham. 
Blomefield.)  Buried  1405  in  Beccles  church.  Weever. 


Elizabeth, =Peter  Garneys,  Esq.,  of- 
1st  wife,  RoosHall  in  Beccles, son 
and  heir  ;  often  called 
Piers  Garneys.  Will,  3 
Sept.  1451,  pr.  at  Nor¬ 
wich  5  Feb.  following. 


named  in 
her  hus¬ 
band’s 
will. 


Anne,  da.  and  cob.  of  Ralph  Ram¬ 
sey  of  Kenton  Hall,  Suffolk,  by 
Alice,  da.  and  h.  of  Sir  Roger  Wel- 
lysham  and  of  Alice,  his  wife,  da. 
and  h.  of  .  .  .  Kenton  of  Kenton 
Hall  ;  married  before  8  H.  6. 


William  Garneys,' 
Esq., of  Geldeston, 
co.  Norfolk.  Will, 
13  Feb.  1421,  pr. 
at  Norwich,  6 
April  1425,  4  H.  6. 


-Elizabeth,  da.  and  h.  of  Sir  Ralph  Bigot,  of 
Stockton,  co.  Norfolk,  by  Elizabeth,  his  wife, 
da.  and  coh.  of  Sir  Thomas  Mortimer  of  At- 
tleburgh;  married  before  5  H.  4;  bur.  in 
the  church  of  the  Austin  Friars,  Norwich. 
Weever.  Died  in  or  before  10  H.  5. 


Thomas  Gar¬ 
aevs,  Esq.,  of 
Kenton,  son 
and  h. ;  mar. 
before  3  Sept. 
1451  ;  died  12 
Dec.  37  H.  6, 
1458. 


:Margaret,  da.  &  coh. 
of  SirHugh  Franceys 
of  Giffords  Hall  in 
Wickhambrook.  She 
mar.  secondly  Thos. 
Peyton  of  Iselham, 
co.  Camb.,  Esq.,  and 
died  3  June  1492. 


Elizabeth,  liv-= 
ingl451,  da.  of 
Sir  J  ohn  J  erney 
of  Metfield ;  re- 
nupt.  Henry 
Repps  of  Hev¬ 
eningham. 

Harl.  MS.  1552. 


;Edinund  Garneys, Esq. ,= 
to  whom  his  father 
gave  Roos  Hall  Manor ; 
died  3  May  1485.  M.I. 
formerly  in  Beccles 
church  to  him  and 
Elizabeth,  his  wife. 
Weever. 


of 


^Matilda,  dau 
Thomas  Ellys, 
Mayor  of  N orwich . 
See  Blomefield  for 
M.I.  formerly  in 
window  of  St. 
Peter’s,  Mancroft, 
in  that  city. 


Ralph  Garneys, 
Esq.,  of  Geldes¬ 
ton  ;  had  livery 
13  June  7  H.  6, 
of  the  Abbot  of 
Bury  ;  died  s.p. 
shortly  before 
20  Oct.  1446. 


- n 

Robert  Garneys, 
2d  son  died  before 
his  brother,  s.p. 

Margaret  Gar¬ 
neys,  died  s.p.  be¬ 
fore  her  brother 
Ralph. 


John  Garneys, ; 
Esq.,  of  Kenton 
Hall ;  aet.  48  in 
1492.  Will,  dated 
20  July  1522, 
pro.  at  Norwich 
8  August  1524. 
Buried  in  Kenton 
church.  Weever. 


:Elizabeth,d.&  h.  of 
Sir  John  Sulyard  of 
Wetherden;  Chief 
Justice  of  England; 
died  2  April  1539 ; 
bur.  in  Badley  ch. 
Weever.  Will, 
P.C.C.18Mar.l537, 
proved  3  Mayl539. 


Thomas  Gar¬ 
neys,  son  and 
heir,  aet.  6  in 
1459 ;  ob.  s.p. 


Margaret,  ux. 
John  Bishop 
of  Norwich. 


Richard  Garneys=f  Elizabeth, da.& 


of  Mendlesham, 
2d  son ;  Lord 
of  the  Manor  of 
Boyland  Hall  in 
Morningthorpe, 
Norff.  ;  died  14 
May  1515. 


h.  of  William 
Toppesfield  of 
Gislingham,by 
Eleanor,  da.  & 
h.  of  Richard  le 
Cherohe  of  Gis- 
lingham'. 


A 


- 1 - 1 

Sir  Christopher  Gar-  Thomas= 
neys,  Janitor  of  Garneys, 
Calais ;  Knighted  at  buried  at 
Tourraine,  25  Dec.  Beccles, 

5  H.  8  ;  ob.  s.p.  Joan,  1527. 
his  relict,  made  will  M.I.  for- 
27  August  1550,  merly  in 
proved  P.C.C.  12  the  ch. 
May  1552.  Weever. 


Anne,  da.  of 
Tho.  Bramp- 
tonofBramp- 
ton,  Norff., 
and  relict  of 
John  Wych- 
ingham,Esq. 
A  widow  in 
1532. 


A 


Anne,  living 
1537,  ux.  Edward 
Grimston  of  Ri- 
shangles  in  co. 
Suffolk.  She  was 
a  widow  in  1522. 


Mirabel,  ux. 
Edmond  Po- 
ley  of  Bad¬ 
ley,  both  liv¬ 
ing  1537. 


Elizabeth,  ux. 
Anthony  Yax¬ 
ley  of  Yax¬ 
ley,  Esq.,  Ser- 
geant-at-Law. 


.  .  .  ux. 
William 
Thwaytes 
of  Norf. 
Harl.  MS. 
1103. 


Anne,  ux.  Thomas 
Wiseman  of  Thorn- 
ham  in  Suffolk, 
who  made  will,  1 
June  1544,  dying 
young. 


Margaret,  ux. 
John  Cotton 
of  Panfield 
Hall  in  com. 
Essex.  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


Jane,  ux.  .  .  . 
Jenney,  devi¬ 
see  1552  of  her 
brother,  Win. 
Garneys ;  then 
a  widow. 


Agnes  Gar¬ 
neys,  a  nun  at 
Bruysyard, 
1517,  when 
her  mother 
made  her  will. 


Robert  Garneys  of  Ken¬ 
ton  Hall,  co.  Suff.,  Esq., 
son  and  heir,  aged  50 
'and  upwards  in  1541 ; 
bur.  at  Kenton,  3  Aug. 
1556.  A 


-Ann,  dau.  and 
coh.  of  Thomas 
Bacon  of  Ba- 
consthorpe,  co. 
Norfolk,  Esq. 


Thomas  Garneys  of=j=Margaret,  dau.  of  Sir  An- 


Great  Bealings  in 
Suffolk,  youngest  son 
1522.  Admon.  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  13  Jan. 
1566. 


Garneys  of  Kenton. 


thony  Bedingfield  of  Ox- 
burgh  in  com.  Norfolk; 
dead  13  Jau.  1566.  She 
married  secondly  Brice 
Rokewood. 


John  Garneys,  2d  son. 
Will,  28  Oct.  1526, 
proved  at  Norwich,  29 
Jan.  following.  To  be 
buried  in  S.  Peter’s 
church,  Ipswich.  S.P. 


William  Garneys,  of 
London.  Will,  P.C.C. 
18  Sep.  1525,  prob.  17 
Nov.  following;  de¬ 
sires  to  be  bur.atBad- 
leyin  Suff.;  ob.  s.p. 


John  Garneys  of  Great  Bealings,  Gent.,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Garneys,  and  one  of  the  heirs=pAnne,  dau.  of  Thomas  Sylesdon, 


presumptive  of  Thomas  Garneys  of  Kenton,  26  Nov.1566.  Inq.  p.m.,  26  Eliz.  Died  4  Feb.  1584, 
at  Stokesby,  co.  Norff.  Lord  of  Hamonds  Manor  in  Mickfield.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  23  Feb.  1579, 
proved  14  March  1583. 


Esq. ;  post  nuptial  settlement, 
Mich.  18  Eliz.  1576  ;  survived  her 
husband. 


Nicholas  Garneys  of  Mickfield,  co.  Suffolk,  Gent.,  son  and  heir,  aged  5  years=j= Audrey,  half-sister  of  Thomas  Dade,  Esq.,  of  Tannington  ; 


in  1584.  Will,  P.C.C.  389  Brent,  2  Nov.  1652,  proved  24  Sept.  1653  ;  devisee, 
20  Oct.  1585,  of  Richard  Garneys  of  Boyland  Hall.  Lord  of  Hamond’s 
Manor.  M.I.  in  Mickfield  church.  Ob.  2  Feb.  1653. 


l — l — l - 

Thomas  Garneys. 
Frances  and  Anne. 
Awdrey. 


Nicholas  Garneys,  Edmund  Garneys,  Elizabeth,  mar. 
bapt.  1616;  named  bapt.  1617;  named  Jo.  Garnon  of 
1652in  his  father’s  1652in  his  father’s  Bacton,  Gent.,  4 
will.  will.  Aug.  1640. 


dau.  of  Thomas  Dade,  Esq.,  by  Anne,  his  wife,  dau.  of 
Richard  Cornwallis,  Esq.  M.I.  in  Mickfield  church.  Sister 
and  devisee  of  Henry  Dade,  Esq.,  1651. 


A 


- i - 1 - 

Phoebe,  bapt.  1613  ;  Margaret  Gar- 
mar.  31  Jan.  1638,  neys.  To  be 
William  Dowe  of  provided  for 
Badley,  Gent.  for  life,  1652. 


A  dau.  of  Nicholas 
Garneys  ofMickfield, 
mar.  .  .  .  Thorne  of 
Y oxford.  Vol .  i,  240. 

2  K 


266 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


A 

_ i 


John  Garneys,  son  and  heir,  of  Mickfield,  gent.,  1664,  when  he=f  Elizabeth,  da.  and  coh.  of  Nathaniel  Atherold,  gent., 


entered  ped.  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
1  May  1672,  proved  1676.  M.I.  in  Mickfield  church. 


of  Hasketon.  Her  will,  Arch.  Suff.  14  Oct.  1682,  was 
proved  21  April  1683.  M.I.  in  Mickfield  church. 


John  Garneys,1  eldest1 
son,  of  Debenham, 
co.  Suffolk,  gent. ; 
died  2  Sept.  1706, 
aged  56.  M.I.  at 
Mickfield.  Will  1706. 


'Grace  Nicholas  Garneys, 

Bird,  linen  draper,  of 

bur.  at  Ipswich.  Will  14 

Mick-  July  1682  ;  proved, 

field  Arch.  Suff.,  21  Ap. 

1716.  1683  ;  ob.  s.p. 


Nathaniel  Garneys,1 * 
3d  son,  of  Mickfield, 
gent.  Made  will 
at  Kenton  8  Feb. 
1691,  proved  Arch. 
Suff.  13  Nov.  1693. 


A 


Mane,  da.  of  the  Rev. 
John  Jeffery,  Vicar 
of  Kenton,  to  whom 
she  placed  monu¬ 
ment  in  Kenton  ch. 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  N., 
1732. 


Martha  Gar¬ 
neys,  eld.dau. 
1672  ;  devisee 
of  Nicholas 
Garneys,  her 
brother,  1682. 


Elizabeth  Garneys,  named 
as  executrix  in  her  mother’s 
will,  1682,  and  her  brother’s 
1691 ;  subsequently  mar. 
Thomas  Clodd,  senr.,  of 
Kenton,  gent. 


Wentworth  JohnGarneys  of  Kenton,  gent.,' 
only  surviving  son ;  bapt.  1684.  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.  27  July  1728,  proved  12  Aug.  fol¬ 
lowing.  Lands  in  Bedingfield,  Debenham, 
and  Winston.  M.I.  in  Kenton  church. 


'Elizabeth,  sister  of  Thomas  Charleys 
Eames.  She  remar.  John  Garneys, 
Wareyn,  gent.,  by  whom  she  bapt.  at 
had  Catherine,  wife  of  John  Kenton, 
Darby  of  Diss,  surgeon,  1765.  1687;  s.p. 


Jane  Garneys,  bapt.  at  Ken-=pClement  Chevallier,of 


ton  1692 ;  to  whom  her 
mother  left  lands  in  Bed¬ 
ingfield  and  Eye  ;  she  died 
1752,  aged  59. 


Aspall,  co.  Suff., gent., 
died  6  May  1762,  aged 
64 ;  bur.  there  11  May 
following. 


Charles  Garneys  of 
Kenton,  gent.,  eldest 
son  ;  ob.  s.p.;  bur.  in 
Kenton  chancel.  M.I. 
Will,  Arch. Suff. 1765, 
proved  1778. 


Thomas  Garneys' 
of  Kenton,  gent., 
2d  son ;  d.  1792, 
aged  66.  M.I.  in 
Kenton  chancel. 


'Sarah  Sheldrake, 
of  Kenton  ;  mar. 
there  1762  ;  ob.  4 
July  1788;  bur¬ 
ied  in  Kenton 
chancel. 


JohnGarneys,5  3d  son,=j=Elizabeth 
Draper,  d. 
1805;  bur. 
in  Kenton 
chancel. 
M.I. 


of  Westleton,  co.  Suff., 
surgeon.  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.  Died  1798,  set. 
70.  M.I.  in  Kenton 
chancel. 


Rev.  Temple  Clieval-' 
lier,  P.C.  of  Aspal  ; 
bapt.  there  in  l731 ; 
mar.  there  1763  ;  bur. 
there  1804,  aged  73. 


A 


'Mary,  da.  of  .  .  . 
Fiske  of  Little 
Waldingfield,  co. 
Suff.;  d.  1807,  set. 
67 ;  bur.  in  As¬ 
pall  church. 


Thomas  Garneys  of  Kenton,  gent., ^Eliza- 


born  1763.  Took  Hedenham  estates 
on  death  of  Charles  Garneys,  but 
gave  them  up  to  the  Jrbys ;  had 
with  other  issue 


beth 
Darby, 
bur.  at 
Kenton. 


Sarah  Garneys,  mar.  .  .  . 
Wales  of  Downham  Market, 
Norff.,  surgeon,  where  she 
died  April  1820,  set.  54. 
M.I.  in  Downham  Church. 


Rev.  John  Chevallier,' 
M.D.,  Perpetl.  Curate 
of  Aspall ;  born  Aug. 
1774;  died  Aug.  1846; 
had  three  wives. 


'.  .  .  3d  wife, 
da.  of  ...  . 
Cole  of  Bury 
S.  Edmunds, 
mar.  1820. 


l 

Harriet,  bapt.  at 
Aspall,  1776  ;  mar. 
3  Nov.  1796,  John 
Cobbold  of  Ipswich, 
and  had  issue. 


1. Charles  Garneys=pPhebe  Robinson,  2. Thomas,  3.  William  Garneys, yEmma  Freeman,  Jane,  mar. 


of  Bungay,  co. 
Suff.,  surgeon  ; 
died  1881,  set.  91. 


died  1876 ;  bur.  married  ob.  1842 ;  had  with 
at  Bungay.  and  had  other  issue 

issue. 


died  1883,  bur.  at  George 
Kenton.  Freeman. 


Frances  Chevallier,  mar.  1845 
at  Aspall,  He  my  Horatio- 
Kitchener,  Lieut. -Col.  13th 
Light  Dragoons. 


1.  Henry,  died  s.p. 

2.  Charles,  went  to 
Australia. 


3.  Thomas  Garneys, 
of  Bungay,  surgeon, 
d.  1892,  set.  64 ;  mar. 
Emma  Garneys. 


4.  William  Garneys, 
of  Repton,  co.  Derby, 
Surgeon ;  mar.  Char¬ 
lotte  Freeman. 


Jane=j=John  Emma,  mar.  Horatio  Herbert  Kitchener,  2d  son 

Went-  her  cousin,  born  1850 ;  created,  1902,  Viscount 

worth  Thomas  Kitchener  of  Khartoum  and  of  As- 

Garneys.  Garneys.  pall,  Suffolk. 


Gar¬ 

neys. 


A 


1  By  his  will  (Arch.  Suff.),  22d  Aug.  1706,  John  Garneys,  of  Debenham,  gentleman,  devised  to  Grace,  his  wife,  his  capital 
messuage  called  Greenwoods,  in  Mickfield,  for  her  jointure  ;  also  other  messuages  and  lands  in  Mickfield,  Stonham  Aspall  and 
Debenham,  to  maintain  and  educate  his  children,  John,  Charles,  Mary,  Grace  and  Elizabeth  Garneys.  On  her  decease  he  leaves 
his  farm  called  Hammonds,  in  Mickfield,  to  Mary,  his  daughter ;  lands  there  called  Falsham,  and  The  Heath  to  Grace,  his 
daughter;  and  Greenwoods  to  Martha,  his  daughter,  charged  with  annuities  to  his  sons.  There  are  bequests  to  his  sister 
Clodd  and  Thomas  Clodd  of  Kenton,  gent.,  her  husband,  and  to  their  daughters  Jane  and  Elizabeth  Clodd.  Grace,  his  wife, 
to  be  sole  executrix. 

2  By  his  will  (Arch.  Suff.),  dated  February  2d,  1797,  John  Garneys  of  Westleton,  co.  Suffolk,  surgeon,  confirms 

settlements  made  at  the  marriages  of  his  daughter  Elizabeth  with  John  Woodcock,  of  Halesworth,  merchant,  and  his 

daughter  Charlotte  with  the  Rev.  Mr.  William  Kett,  of  Melton,  in  Suffolk,  clerk.  He  gives  to  Elizabeth  Garneys,  his  wife, 

the  interest  of  £400,  the  use  of  his  plate  and  furniture,  and  the  residue  of  his  personal  estate.  To  the  said  William  Kett 
and  to  his  heirs  he  devises  his  lands  in  Yoxford  called  “  Candlers.”  To  his  nephew  Thomas  Garneys  of  Kenton,  ten  guineas 
for  mourning.  And  he  makes  the  aforesaid  John  Woodcock  and  William  Kett  his  executors. 


GARNEYS  OF  KENTON,  CHEVALLIER. 


267 


CJjcballtcr  ^rtitgrcc,  front  tljc  Babg 


Clement  Chevallier  of  the  Isle  of  Jersey,  1698  ;= 
bur.  at  Aspall,  co.  Suffolk,  1729. 


Clement  Chevallier  of  Aspall, = 
co.  Suffolk  ;  died  1762,  aged  64; 
buried  at  Aspall. 


;Jane,  da.  of  Nathaniel  Garneys  of  Mickfield  and 
sister  of  Wentworth  John  Garneys  of  Kenton. 
She  died  1762  aged  59,  and  was  bur.  at  Aspall. 


John  Chevallier  of  Mickfield,  co.  Suff.,  gent.  ;=f=Mary 
had,  with  other  issue,  a  son  John  Chevallier, 
who  d.  s.p.  1828,  set.  77,  and  was  bur.  at  Aspall. 

A 


Mary  Chevallier,  bapt. 
at  Aspall  1732;  died 
unm. ;  bur.  in  Aspall 
church. 


Three  sons  Rev.  Temple  Chevallier,  Per-=pMary,  da.  of 
named  Cle-  petual  Curate  of  Aspall ;  bapt. 
ment  died  there  1731,  mar.  1763,  bur. 
in  infancy.  1804. 


.  .  Fiske  of  Jane  Chevallier,  bap.  Clement  Che- 

Little  Waldingfield,  co.  Suf-  at  Aspall  1730  ;  bur.  vallier,  bapt. 

folk  ;  died  1867,  aet.  67  ;  bur.  there  1806,  aged  75 ;  at  Aspall  22 

in  Aspall  church.  unmarried.  May  1735. 


Elizabeth  Maria,  born 
1769;  mar.  1796  Rev. 
Barrington  Blomfield 
Syer,  R.  of  Kedington. 


Rev.  Thomas  Cheval¬ 
lier,  3d  son, born  1770  ; 
Chaplain  R.N. ;  died  at 
Port  au  Prince,  unm. 


Jane  Chevallier, 
born  1771  ;  died 
unm.  1818 ;  bur. 
at  Aspall. 


Chas.  Cheval¬ 
lier,  4th  son, 
b.  1772  ;  died 
unm.  1844. 


Frederick, 
b.  1768,  & 
others  d. 
in  infancy. 


Harriet,  bapt.  at 
Aspall  1776;  mar. 
1796,  John  Cob- 
bold  of  Ipswich. 


Sophia, bom  1770 
mar.  at  Ellough, 
.  .  Cream  of  Long 
Melford,  surgeon. 


Rev. Temple  Fiske=rSarah,  da.  of 


Chevallier,  Rector 
of  Badingham,eld. 
son  ;  b.  1764  ;  bur. 
at  Aspall,  1816. 


Emma,  born  1797 ; 
died  1849  at  Ips¬ 
wich,  s.p. 


Ellen  Susan,  born 
1800,  d.  1842,  set. 
43. 


Rev.  Thos.  Chas. 
Chevalier,  b.  1803; 
ordained  deacon 
1828 ;  died  1835. 


Edge- 
cumbe  of 
Brompton,co. 
Kent,  d.  1818. 


Caroline,  1st  wife,1 
dau.  of  ...  . 
Hepburn,  of  Wis¬ 
bech  ;  bur.  at  As¬ 
pall,  1815. 


=Rev.  John  Chevallier,  M.D.,=pEmily,  2d  w.,  da. 


P.C.  of  Aspall ;  mar.  Eliz.  da. 
of  John  Cole  of  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  his  3d  wife. 


George,  bap.  1813. 

Charlotte  Sophia, 
mar.1851  Rev.  Ed¬ 
ward  M.  D.  Pyne. 


Mary,  mar.  1838,  Rev.  Chas. 
Boutell,  the  Archaeologist. 

Caroline,  mar.  1839  Thos. 
Kinder  of  Sandridge  Bury. 


of  Rev.  Barring¬ 
ton  Blomefield 
Syer,  Rector  of 
Kedington. 


Rev.  Clement  Che¬ 
vallier,  R.  of  El¬ 
lough,  2d  son ;  b. 
1765,  mar.  1813, 
bur.at  Aspall  1830. 


Rev.Jn.Che-=rCharlotte,  Barrington  =f=EUen,  dau. 


vallier,  mar. 
a  t  South- 
wold,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk,  1844. 


da.  of  Rev. 
Edw.  Bell, 
R.  of  Hel- 
mingham. 


Chevallier, 
M.B.,  mar. 
29  October 
1846. 


A 


of  Major 
Brownson, 
23  d  Regt. 
Welsh  Fu- 
^sileers. 


:Sophia,  eld. 
da.  of  John 
Farr,  Esq., 
of  North 
Cove. 


l.AnnaFarr 
Chevallier, 
mar.  1840 
Henry  Ro¬ 
berts,  Bar.- 
at-law. 


Frances,  mar.  at  Aspall,  24 
April  1845,  Henry  Horatio 
Kitchener,  Capt.  29th  Foot, 
born  1826,  died  1864. 


Harriet.  Rev.  Charles  Hen- 
—  ry  Chevallier;  de- 

Jane.  scendants  still  at 

Aspall. 


Emily,  mar.  at  As¬ 
pall, 1847,  Rev.Ric. 
Eaton  Monins,  R. 
of  Glemham. 


Frederick 

Cheval¬ 

lier. 


- 1 — i 

Isabella. 

Elizabeth. 


2.  Clementina  Sophia, 
mar.  1839  Wm.  Bracey 
of  Upper  Clapton,  Mid¬ 
dlesex. 


3.  Georgina  Eliza¬ 
beth, mar.  1830  Pe¬ 
ter  le  N eve  Foster, 
Barrister-at-law. 


4.  Mary  Anne,  mar. 
1842  Arthur  Fisher 
Tompson  of  Great 
Yarmouth. 


5.  Sophia  Jane,  mar. 
1846,  1,  Isaac  Jermy, 
of  Stanfield  Hall ;  2d, 
Thomas  Beevor. 


Clement  Chevallier,  mar. 
1851  Jane,  eld.  dau.  of 
Capt.  Samuel  Fielding 
Harmer,  R.N. 


1.  Rev.  Temple  Chevallier,  b.  1794  ;  V. ^Catherine,  da.  of  2.  Richard  Edgecumbe  Che  vallier, =j=  Jane,  da.  of  John 


of  Great  St.  Andrews,  Cambridge ; 
Mathematical  Professor  at  Durham. 


Chas.  Apthorpe, 
Wheelwright. 


twin  brother ;  born  1794  ;  mar.  at 
Gillingham,  Kent,  1825. 


Brooman,  of 
Brompton. 


3.  GeorgeCheval- 
lier,  Lieut.  R.N.  ; 
died  1819. 


Temple  Chevallier,  only  son, 
son,  died  1845,  set.  12. 


Catherine  Temple  Chevallier,  born  1828 ;  mar.  1847,  Rev.  Stuart 
Adolphus  Pears,  B.D.,  of  the  University  of  Durham. 


.  .  .  Chevallier,  a  son, 
born  1837. 

2  K2 


68 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


&ogal  Sfsrntt,  barneys  of  ifticMrlti. 


Edward  I,  King  of  England;  d.  1307.=rEleanor,  da.  of  Ferdinand  III,  King  of  Castile. 


The  Princess  Joan  of  Acre.=j=Gilbert  de  Clare,  Earl  of  Gloucester ;  d.  1295. 


Hugh  le  Despencer,  Earl  of  Gloucester.=j=Eleanor  de  Clare,  da.  and  coheir. 


Richard  Fitzalan,  Earl  of  Arundel.-plsabel  le  Despencer. 


Riohard  Sergeaux,  Inq.  p.m.  17  R.  2.^=Philippa  Fitzalan. 


Robert  Passelle,  1st  husband.=pPhilippa  Sergeaux,  aet.  18,  1399. 


Edward  Tyrrell,  of  Downhain,  co.  Essex.=j=Anne  Passele. 


Thomas  Cornwallis,  of  Brome,  co.  Suffolk ;  d.  1447.  rPhilippa  Tyrrell,  da.  and  coheir. 


William  Cornwallis,  of  Brome,  4th  son.=f=Elizabeth,  da.  and  coheir  of  John  Stamford. 


Sir  John  Cornwallis,  of  Brome  ;  d.  1544.=j=Mary,  da.  of  Edward  Sulyard,  by  Margaret  Hungate. 


Richard  Cornwallis,  3d  son.=rMargaret,  da.  and  heir  of  Lionel  Lowthe. 


Thomas  Dade,  of  Tannington,  co.  Suffolk. =^=Anne  Cornwallis,  1st  wife. 


Nicholas  Garneys,  of  Mickfield,  Suffolk.=j=  Audrey  Dade. 


John  Garneys,  of  Mickfield ;  d.  1675.=pElizabeth,  da.  and  coheir  of  Nathaniel  Atherold. 


Nathaniel  Garneys,  of  Mickfield;  d.  1693.=f=Jane,  da.  of  the  Rev.  John  Jeffery. 


Wentworth  John  Garneys, =rElizabeth 
of  Kenton  ;  died  1728.  Eames. 


Clement  Chevallier,  of  Aspall,=j=Jane  Garneys, 


co.  Suffolk ;  died  1762. 


died  1762. 


Thomas  Garneys,  of  Kenton.=f  Sarah  Sheldrake. 

A 


Rev.  Temple  Chevallier.^ Mary  Fiske. 

A 


of  ^totomarfeet. 


feeble 


Jlnnorial  ©tarings. 

The  Arms  allowed  to  the  Kebles  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664  were : — Barry  nebulee 
of  six  Argent  and  Sable,  a  canton  Gules.  The  Crest — A  demi-eagle  displayed  Argent,  charged 
on  the  breast  with  a  bar  nebulee  (some  say  a  bar  gemel)  Gules.  ( Harl .  MS.  1085).  These  were 
the  heraldic  insignia  of  the  Kebles  of  Homerston  in  Leicestershire  in  the  sixteenth  century  (Harl. 
MS.  1180),  but  it  is  doubtful  if  there  was  any  connection  between  the  families. 

At  the  same  Visitation  Thomas  Keble  of  Old  Newton,  descended  of  a  younger  son  of 
the  Stowmarket  house,  bore — Quarterly,  1  and  4.  Keble,  as  above,  with  a  crescent  for  difference, 
2  and  3.  Gules  a  griffin  segreant  Argent,  for  Went ;  whilst  the  shield  of  Richard  Keble,  Esq., 
of  Gray’s  Inn,  and  Creeting  All  Saints,  was  Keble,  with  a  crescent  on  the  canton ;  on  an 
inescutcheon  Quarterly,  1  and  4.  Argent,  a  chevron  between  three  griffins’  heads  erased  Sable, 
for  Cotton.  2  and  3.  Azure,  a  maunch  Or,  for  Coniers  of  Coniers  Manor  in  Great  Barton. 

On  the  Keble  monument  in  Tuddenham  chancel  are  shields  with  Sicklemore,  Per  chevron 
Argent  and  Sable,  in  chief  two  sickles  erect  of  the  second,  in  base  a  cockerell  Or,  and  Keble 
impaling  Sicklemore;  also  on  a  larger  escutcheon,  Quarterly  of  six.  1,  Keble.  2,  (1)  Croftes, 
Lozengy  Sable  and  Argent.  3,  (1)  Panell,  Argent,  three  chevrons  within  a  bordure  Gules. 
4,  (1)  King,  Argent  on  a  chevron  Sable  three  escallops  of  the  field.  5,  (1)  Fetiplace,  Gules,  three 
chevrons  Argent.  6,  Went,  as  above.  A  seventh  possible  quartering  may  have  been  Sicklemore. 

The  Croftes,  Panell,  King,  and  Fetiplace  marriages  occur  upon  the  doubtful  Keble  pedigree 
in  Add.  MS.  5524.  The  arms  of  these  heiresses  are  variants  of  those  assigned  to  the  names 
in  the  Armories.  Thus,  Croftes  of  Cheshire,  Lozengee  Argent  and  Sable,  is  given  as  Lozengee 
Sable  and  Argent;  Panell  of  Norfolk,  Gules  two  chevrons  within  a  bordure  engrailed  Argent,  as 
Argent  three  chevrons  within  a  bordure  Gules ;  and  so  throughout. 

The  doubtful  pedigree  seems  to  have  been  made  for  John,  son  and  heir  of  Richard  Keble, 
Esq.,  of  Gray’s  Inn,  in  1647.  An  amplified  copy,  much  decayed,  was  discovered  a  few  year’s 
since  in  a  disused  cupboard  of  the  Ancient  House  at  Ipswich,  and  is  now  in  the  possession  of 
Mr.  John  R.  Keeble,  of  Brantham  Hall. 


Mill  of  fobn  liable  tb t  Unr,  1530. 

John  Kebyll  le  heire  of  Stowrrlket  in  the  countye  of  Suffolk,  the  xith  daye  of  January, 
1530.  To  buryed  in  the  church  yard.  My  lands  and  tenements  vnto  John  Kebyll,  sonn  of 
Robert  Kebyll  my  sonn.  Margaret  my  wife.  Obitt  day  to  be  kept  for  Rychard  Kebyll 


270 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


th ’elder.  Messuage  in  Stowe  vnto  St’evyn  Kebyll  my  sonn  ;  said  Stevyn  Kebyll  and  John 
Kebyll  sonn  of  Robert  Kebyll  my  sonn  to  be  executors.  Lands  in  Saxton,  Thorney  and 
Stonham  to  Stevyn  my  sonn.  Probatum  xiij0  die  Octobris,  1531. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber.  Brett,  fo.  125b. 

In  his  will  dated  10th  November  1548,  Stephen  Keble,  of  Earl  Stonham,  yeoman,  the 
testator’s  son,  bequeaths  to  Gregory  Keble,  his  son,  his  tenement  called  Kentts  in  Stowmarket, 
to  Edmund  Keble,  his  son,  another  tenement  in  Stowmarket,  and  one  in  Saxton  Hamlet  of 
Stowmarket,  called  Hamonds.  He  appoints  as  executors,  Anne  his  wife,  Gregory  and  Edmund 
his  sons,  and  William  Blomeffyld,  of  Aspall  Stonham,  his  son-inlaw.  The  witnesses  are  John 
Keble  the  heir,  William  Keble,  Robert  Keble,  and  William  Vmffreye.  Probate  was  given 
10th  April,  1549.  Arch.  Suff.  Wills,  1544-1550,  fo.  468. 


ffi&mmtft  fcblc  of  (Earl  ^tonljam,  rirra  1550. 

To  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  Lord  Keeper,  John  Wood'  and  Phillip  his  wyfe,  John  Luffkyn 
and  Eraunces  his  wyef  and  Edward  Glanfyeld,  shew  that  Charles  late  Duke  of  Suffolk,  14th 

April  25  H.  8.  did  grant  to  Robert  Glamevyle  gent,  father  to  said  Phillipp,  Fraunces  and 

Edwarde  the  scyte  of  the  Mannor  of  Hurtes  in  Saxmondham,  with  howses  and  landes,  for  four 
skore  yeares.  These  Robert  Glanvyle  did  bequeath  to  Edmonde  Keble  and  Katheren  his  wyef, 
one  other  of  his  daughters,  the  rents  to  be  devyded  into  four  partes,  of  which  each  of  his  said 

children,  John  Luffkyn  and  his  wife,  John  Wood  and  his  wife,  Edmond  Keble  and  his  wife 

and  Edward  Glamvyle  should  have  one  part.  Glamevyle  appointed  Luffkyn,  Wood  and  Kebell 
his  executors  and  dyed.  Keble  and  his  wief  have  peacebly  enioyed  the  yearly  rentes.  The 
Indenture  of  lease  was  put  under  locke  and  keye.  But  soe  yt  is  that  Keble  has  taken  the  chest 
away  and  conveyed  it  to  some  place  vnknowen.  Yt  is  vehemently  to  be  suspected  he  will 
attempt  the  destruction  of  said  lease  and  the  vndoing  of  your  Orators.  Keble’s  Answer.  The 
chest  has  never  been  opened,  but  he  has  conveyed  it  from  his  howse  in  West  ■  Creatinge  (the 
lease  having  expired)  to  one  other  howse  of  his  in  Earle  Stonham.  Each  party  had  a  special 
keye  and  locke.  Chancery  Proceedings,  Series  ii,  195,  21. 


®ill  of  Joint  lubk  tln>  Urn,  1565. 

John  Keble  the  heire  of  Stowemarket,  yeoman,  the  xxij  Nov.  1565.  To  be  buried  in  the 
cfiyard  by  my  father  and  mother.  Vnto  William  Keble,  my  son,  lands  copy  of  the  Manor  of 

Erie  Stonham ;  he  to  pay  Margaret  my  daughter  xlu.  Gyles  Keble  my  sonn  to  have  my  manor 

of  Lezons  and  lands  bequeathed  to  him  and  his  heirs  for  ever  ;  also  lands  which  were  my 

father  in  laws,  John  Kinge  of  Stowe ;  he  to  pay  ...  to  Margaret  his  sister,  and  viiih  to 

Robert  Keble’s  children,  and  to  William  Browne’s  children,  as  bequeathed  by  the  will  of  the 
said  John  Kynge  late  of  Stowe.  Vnto  William  Keble,  my  eldest  sonn,  all  other  lands.  Vnto 
Anne  Keble  my  servant  and  kinswoman.  Gyles  Keble  my  sonn  and  William  Browne  my  sonne 
in  lawe  to  be  executors.  Probat  xx°  die  Martij,  1565. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Arnold,”  fo.  299. 


KEBLE  OF  STOWMARKET. 


271 


Thorney-Lezons  lies  in  Stowmarket.  The  Royal  Pardon  for  the  alienation  of  this  manor  by 
John  Keble,  senior,  appears  upon  the  Originalia  Rolls  of  the  eighth  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth. 
Thorney  Kebles,  another  of  these  manors,  as  its  name  implies,  was  once  held  by  members  of  the 
family. 


S'nh  uf  dLampseii  JItanor,  1595. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  Dne  Regine  apud  Westin  in  octabis  Sci  Mictiis  anno 
regnor^  Elizabeth  Angt  [etc.]  Regine  tricesimo  septimo  Inter  Nicfim  Turner  quer  et  Rich!  Keble 
't  Elizabeth  v2em  deforc  de  MaSio  de  Thorney  Campseye  in  Stowmkett,  Gippinge  T  West 
Cretinge.  Vnde  plitm  conuencois  sum  fuit  in?  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Sciit  qd  pidci  Iiicus  T  Elizabeth 
recogh  [idem  maSni  esse  ius  ipius  Nichi.  Et  p  hac  recogh  [etc.]  idem  Nicfius  dedit  pidcis  Richo 
T  Elizabeth  quadraginta  T  quatuor  libr  sterlingo^. 

Suff.  Fines,  Mich.  37  and  38  Eliz. 


Still  of  (Militant  lubk  t \)t  Heir,  1608. 

William  Keble  of  Gippinge  in  the  Countye  of  Suffolke,  yeoman,  the  xivth  daye  of  March, 
1608.  Ynto  eight  of  my  grandchildi’en,  being  children  of  my  son  John  Keble,  at  their  ages  of 
xxi  yeres.  Ynto  twoe  other  of  my  grandchildren,  being  children  of  my  sonne  in  lawe,  John 
Roydon.  Ynto  my  sonne  in  lawe  Mr.  Thomas  Tirell,  and  vnto  his  children,  there  being  tenne  of 
them.  Ynto  my  godson  William  Tirrell,  one  of  the  tenne.  Ynto  my  brother  Giles  Keble ; 
Margaret  Bell,  my  neice  ;  Richard  Bird  of  Stowupland,  one  of  my  sisters  sonnes.  Elizabeth  Keble 
my  daughter  to  be  sole  executrix.  My  sonne  in  lawe,  Mr.  Thomas  Tyrill  and  brother  Gyles 
Keble  to  be  supervisors.  Probat  xvij0  die  Maij  1609. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Rogen,”  fo.  17  b. 

By  Fine  in  Easter  Term,  18th  Eliztb,  William  Keble  the  Heir  and  Thomas  Keble  and  Eliauora 
his  wife,  sold  to  Thomas  Pretyman  senior  a  Toft  and  fourteen  acres  of  pasture  in  Mendlesham. 


Mill  at  ®iks  iitbk,  1625. 

Giles  Keble  of  Newton,  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  the  14th  Octr  1623.  Vnto  Thomas 
Keble  my  eldest  sonne,  Robert  Keble  my  seconde  sonne,  William  Keble  my  third  sonne.  To 
Joseph  Keble  my  sixth  sonne  cccH.  If  William  Keble  my  sonne  die  without  issue  male.  To 
Richard  my  sonne.  James  Keble  my  sonne  has  lands  from  my  brother  in  law  Jefferie  Went. 
To  Suzan  and  Elizabeth  Keble,  two  of  the  daughters  of  William  my  sonne.  Anne  (1)  Tevill 
and  Margaret  Wytherby  my  daughters.  To  Giles,  Thomas,  Anne,  Marie,  Frances,  John, 
Dorothie  and  Elizabeth  Keble,  children  of  Robert  Keble  my  sonne.  To  Jefferie,  John,  Robert, 
Thomas  and  Marye  Keble,  children  of  Jefferie  Keble  my  youngest  sonne.  To  Robert  Hall,  my 
greate  graundchilde  when  twenty  one.  Richard  Byrd  my  sisters  sonne.  Thomas  and  John  my 
sonnes  to  be  executors.  Probatum  xvij0  die  Novembris  1623. 

Arch.  Sudb.,  Book  “  Harold,”  fo.  668. 


272 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Sljomas  iubk,  1646, 

Thomas  Keble  the  elder,  of  Newton,  co.  Suffolk,  gentleman,  the  1 9th  March  1646.  Unto 
Elizabeth  my  wife  .£40  yearly  out  of  my  lands  to  bring  up  her  children  in  learning,  to  be 
paid  her  by  Thomas  my  sonne.  To  said  Thomas  Keble  my  sonne,  my  tenement  called  Brisetts, 
purchased  of  my  nephew  Giles  Keble.  To  Mary  my  daughter  £400  at  her  age  of  twenty  one 
years.  To  Elizabeth  my  daughter  £600  when  twenty  one.  To  my  daughters  annuity  of  £15 
out  of  the  lands  of  my  brother  William  Keble,  called  Little  Finborrowe  hall.  My  brother  in 
law  James  Tyrrill  Esqr  and  his  son  Robert  Tyrrell.  My  brother  Jeffery  Keble.  My  sonne  Thomas 
Keble  to  be  Executor.  Probate  28th  April  1648.  Arch.  Sudb.,  Book  Ashton  I.,  fo.  8b. 


(Still  of  Jlobtt  lublc,  1652- 

The  16th  day  of  May  1652,  John  Keble  of  Hallesworth  in  the  County  of  Suff :  gentlem. 
My  lands  in  Blyford  to  be  sold  towards  the  payment  of  legacies.  I  devise  all  my  other  lands 
and  tenementes  to  Joane  Keble  my  mother  during  her  life,  and  after  her  decease  in  mannr 
following,  viz*1 — my  coppy  lands  in  Darsham  and  Yoxford  to  such  purposes  as  my  father  by 
his  will  bearing  date  27th  January  demised — that  is  to  say,  if  I  shall  die  without  heires  of 
my  body,  said  lands  to  be  sold  by  Jeffry  Keble  my  vncle,  Charles  Rogell  my  kinsman,  John 
Antell  my  kinsman,  and  Gregory  Mills  my  vncle.  The  monies  arising  (to)  be  equally  devided 
between  the  children  of  my  vncle  Joseph  Keble  late  of  London.  1  devise  my  lands  in  Chesten 
and  Linsted  to  Samuell  Keble,  sone  to  my  vncle  Joseph  Keble,  late  of  London,  when  one  and 
twenty.  Lands  in  Holton  to  the  reliefe  of  the  poore  of  Hallesworth.  My  lands  in  Huntingfield 
to  Temperance  Keble,  daughter  of  Joseph  Keble,  late  of  London.  The  rest  of  my  lands  in 
Holton  to  be  sold,  and  tenn  pounds  a  peece  given  to  the  children  of  Richard  Kebble,  Thomas 
Keble,  Robert  Keble,  William  Kebble  and  Jeffery  Kebble  my  vncles.  I  make  Joane  Keble  my 
mother,  and  John  Cross  of  Bridgham  in  Norff.  gent.  Executors.  Proved  at  Westminster  21  May 
1653  by  the  Executors.  P.C.C.  372  Brent. 


Mill  of  Jdfan  lubk,  1660* 

Jeffery  Keble  of  Dagworth  in  Old  Newton  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  gentleman,  1st  Septf 
1660.  My  nephew  Thomas  Keble  of  Old  Newton,  gent,  to  be  Executor.  To  Mary  Partridge, 
my  daughter,  tenements  late  my  sister  Witherbye’s.  Lands  late  John  Witherbye’s  in  Haughley 
said  daughter  for  life,  with  remainder  to  her  children.  Thomas  Partridge,  my  sone  in  law, 
and  said  Mary  my  daughter  his  wife.  To  the  yongest  children  of  my  brother  Joseph  Keble, 
deceased.  Lands  settled  on  Mary  my  daughter  and  her  husband  by  George  Partridge  his  late 
father.  To  Susan  my  daughter,  wife  of  John  Symond,  gent.,  lands  in  Haughley,  with  remainder 
to  her  children.  To  Anne  my  daughter  the  tenement  I  live  in  in  Old  Newton.  Moyety  of 
lands  to  my  nephew  Richard  Keble,  Esq.,  and  to  said  Thomas  Keble  my  nephew.  Lands 
(specified)  to  Temperance  my  daughter.  To  Sara  and  Samuel  Keble  the  two  youngest  children  of 
my  brother  Joseph  Keble,  deceased,  at  their  several  ages  of  twenty  one  years.  To  Thomas  Keble 
my  Executor  and  the  daughter  of  Thomas  Witherbye  his  sister,  the  mothers  being  dead.  Probate 
23  Jan.  1660  to  Thomas  Keble  the  Executor.  Arch.  Sudb.  “Rex  Redux,”  fo.  128. 


KEBLE  OF  STOWMARKET. 


273 


Still  of  Jlatbanifl  IbbU,  1661, 

Nathaniel  Keble  of  Creatinge  All  Saints,  co.  Suffolk,  gentleman,  30th  Nov.  1661.  Frances 
my  faithfull  and  loveinge  wife  to  be  executrix.  My  lands  in  Backton  and  Wiverston  to  be 
sold,  and  £90  paid  to  my  sonne  Thomas  Keble,  £50  to  my  daughter  Martha  Bennett  for  the 
remainder  of  her  portion,  £140  to  my  daughter  Rebecca,  £140  to  my  daughter  Elizabeth,  and 
the  residue  to  my  sonne  Stephen  Keble. 

My  wife  is  at  liberty  to  hold  my  lands  in  Earl  Stonham  for  life,  with  remainder  to 

my  sonne  Stephen.  I  desire  her  to  allow  him  £10  a  year  out  of  my  Earl  Stonham  rents, 

hopeinge  that  upon  his  marryage  she  will  do  better  for  him  if  she  can  spare  it. 

If  the  custom  of  Backton  Manor  is  to  the  youngest  sonne  then  my  little  house  there 
is  to  descend  to  my  sonne  Thomas. 

My  law  books  I  doe  give  to  my  sonne  Stephen.  I  bequeath  all  my  personal  estate 

to  Frances  my  wife,  desiring  she  will  soe  order  things  that  my  said  sonne  Stephen  may  have 

the  best  of  my  household  stuffe  after  her  decease.  Proved  19  Jan.  1662  by  relict. 

Consistory  Court,  Norwich.  Wills  1662,  No.  102. 


mill  of  Jttarn  leble,  1678. 

Mary  Keble  of  S4  Andrew’s  parish,  Holborn,  in  the  Countj7  of  Middlesex,  4th  May 
1678.  My  land  in  the  parish  of  S4  Matthew’s  in  Ipswich,  now  in  lease,  unto  Joseph  Keble, 
my  brother,  and  his  heirs ;  as  also  my  interest  in  Holborne  House  and  £100  of  the  money 
in  my  brother  Richard  Keble’s  hands ;  of  the  rest  of  it,  £30  to  his  son  Joseph,  and  £30  to 
his  daughter  Mary  and  my  Chayne  of  Pearle.  I  give  £20  for  a  monument  for  my  father  and 
mother  at  Tudnam  church  in  Suffolk.  To  my  brother  John  Keble  and  my  sister  40s  a  peece 
My  brother  J oseph  Keble  to  be  my  executor :  he  to  bury  me  in  the  country,  if  he  pleases. 
On  the  22th  October  appeared  Richard  Keble  of  Old  Newton,  Esq.  :  he  knew  his  sister’s  hand¬ 
writing.  Probatum  xxij0  Octobris  1679,  juramento  Josephi  Keble  fratris  defuncti. 

P.C.C.  132  King. 

The  testatrix  was  buried  in  Tuddenham  chancel,  12th  October  1679,  below  the  tablet 
she  had  caused  to  be  erected  to  the  memory  of  her  parents. 


SStill  of  Kkljarti  HUbfe,  1685. 

Richard  Keble  of  Old  Newton  in  the  County  of  Suffolke,  Esqr.  I  give  to  my  daughter 
Mary  Keble  one  thousand  pounds  to  be  paid  her  at  her  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares ;  or  if 
she  Marry  with  my  Executor’s  and  her  Mother’s  Consent,  then  at  the  birth  of  her  first  Child 
five  hundred  pounds,  and  five  hundred  pounds  at  the  birth  of  her  second  borne  alive.  To  my 

2  L 


274 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


sonue  Joseph  Keble  all  my  estate  whatsoever  (after  his  sister’s  portion  is  paid).  I  make  my 
brother  Joseph  Keble  of  Grayse  Inn,  Esqr,  and  my  daughter  Mary  my  Executors  and  Revoke 
all  other  wills.  I  give  forty  shillings  to  the  poore  of  Old  Newton.  My  Executors  to  bury  mee 
where  they  please  in  Church.  This  18th  day  of  April  1683.  I  will  my  Mother  Wither  being  duly 
payed.  Probatum  secundo  die  Augusti  1684  juramento  Marise  Keble  filke. 

P.C.C.  103  Hare. 


Will  of  ®I)ontas  IRcblr,  1684. 

Thomas  Keble  of  Old  Newton,  gent.,  11th  Oct.  1684.  My  copyhold  lands  in  Old  Newton, 
Gipping,  Stowupland,  etc.,  to  my  daughter  Penelope  Keble  at  her  age  of  eighteen  years,  she 
to  marry  with  the  consent  of  her  mother  and  her  uncle  Meadow.  If  otherwise  I  give  these 
lands  to  my  nephew  Robert  Hill  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever.  But  if  said  Robert  Hill  never 
come  to  England  again,  I  bequeath  these  lands  to  my  cosine  John  Keble  of  London,  ffringe 
maker,  sonne  of  Giles  Keble.  If  said  daughter  should  die  without  issue,  some  of  these  lands 
to  pass  to  William  Meadow  the  elder,  my  brother  in  law.  Unto  Anne  Hill,  daughter  of  my 
sister  Hill,  £100.  To  John  Keble  the  elder  and  John  Keble  the  younger  of  Stowmarket, 
gentlemen ;  and  to  William  Meadow  the  younger,  Ralph,  John,  Mary  and  Elizabeth  Meadow, 
the  five  children  of  William  Meadow  of  Henley,  gent.  To  Thomas  and  Roger  Keble,  sonnes 
of  said  cousin  John  Keble  th’elder.  To  Samuel  Keble  of  London,  bookeseller,  sonne  of  my 
uncle  Joseph  Keble.  William  Meadow  of  Henly,  gent.,  and  Penelope  my  wife  to  be  my 
executors.  Sealed  the  13th  day  of  October  1684.  Probate  28th  Oct.  1684  to  Penelope  Keble, 
widow,  relict  of  the  deceased. 

Arch.  Sudb.,  Book  “  Chambers,”  fo.  378. 


Will  of  ®l)omas  llttbk,  1690. 

Thomas  Keble  of  Great  Coggesball,  clothier,  23d  May  1690.  My  freehold  lands  and 
tenements  in  Much  Tey  and  Chappell  ats  Pontesbright,  co.  Essex,  to  Mary  my  dear  wife  for 
life,  and  after  her  decease  to  my  daughter  Martha  and  her  heirs.  My  lands,  free  and  copy, 
in  Earles  Stonham,  co.  Suffolk,  to  my  daughter  Mary  and  her  heirs,  charged  however  with  the 

payment  of  £16  yearly  to  said  Mary  my  wife  during  the  life  of  Isaac  Cooke,  my  father  in 

law,  and  noe  longer.  Certain  freehold  lands  in  Earle  Stonham  to  my  daughter  Martha,  until 
my  wifes  decease,  and  then  to  my  daughter  Rebecca  and  her  heirs.  Copy  lands  in  Dedham, 
co.  Essex,  to  the  said  Rebecca.  To  my  nephew  John  Neeve  and  neice  Rebecca  Neeve  £20 
apeice,  they  to  release  all  actions,  Ac.  Plate  to  Mary  my  wife.  To  Martha  and  Mary  my 
daughters  £350  apeice;  and  to  Rebecca  my  daughter  £500,  at  their  several  ages  of  one  and 

twenty  years.  To  the  master  weavers  in  my  imployment.  Wife  to  be  sole  executrix  and  my 

cosen  John  Rous,  clerke,  supervisor.  Probate  21st  June  1692  to  Mary  Keble  the  relict. 

P.C.C.  Ill  Fane. 


KEBLE  OF  STOWMARKET. 


275 


00111  of  Josqjl)  l&cbh,  1710* 

I  Joseph  Iveble  of  Grayes  Inn  in  the  County  of  Middlesex,  Esqr,  doe  make  this  my 
last  Will.  I  devise  my  ffarm  in  Brantham,  Sutton  and  Tailings  ton  (Tattingston)  in  Suffolk 
unto  my  loveinge  cozen  Thomas  Serwold  of  London,  druggist,  in  trust  to  be  sold  for  payment 
of  the  legacies  hereby  given.  I  devise  unto  John  Keble  of  the  parish  of  St.  Sepulchers, 
London,  ,£200,  and  to  his  wife,  his  son,  and  his  daughter  £100  apeice.  Unto  Samuel  Keble 
the  elder  £200,  and  to  Samuell  Keble  the  youngei’,  his  son,  £200.  Unto  my  grand-neice  Mary 
Shepherd  £500.  To  the  Honorable  Society  of  Grayes  Inne  all  my  Manuscripts  of  Common 
Places  digest  of  the  Statute  Lawes  in  English,  with  the  little  Bookes  of  heads  and  Lawes 
therein  l’eferi'ed  to,  As  also  an  Exposition  of  the  same  Statutes  by  way  of  Reference  to  former 
or  Latter  Reports,  as  a  testimony  of  the  Honour  and  thanks  I  owe  to  them  for  their 

Countenance  of  that  Labour  that  I  could  not  have  enjoyed  but  by  their  permission.  I  devise 
unto  my  cozen  Samuell  Keble  the  elder  all  my  other  Library  of  Books  noted  and  Reports  of 
Manuscripts,  as  also  all  those  published  in  print.  I  devise  my  Chambers  in  Grayes  Inne  unto 
Joseph  Keble  my  nephew,  who  may  possibly  be  better  convinced  of  his  ill  choice  of  the 
service  of  the  seas,  he  to  permit  the  said  Mary  Shepperd,  his  sister’s  daughter,  to  inhabit 
therein  as  she  hath  done  some  years  past.  I  devise  my  house  at  Hamstead  wherein  I  dwell 

unto  Samuell  Keble  the  son  and  his  heires  for  ever.  And  I  make  the  said  Mary  Shepherd 

my  sole  Executrix — to  be  ordered  neverthelesse  by  the  said  Thomas  Serwold  as  supervisor  and 
trustee  of  this  will  (to  whom  I  give  £100).  For  the  expenses  of  ffunerall  Charges  I  give  £20, 
whither  I  be  buried  at  Hampstead  or  in  Suffolk.  I  make  the  said  Mary  Shepherd  and  Thomas 
Serwold  residuaxy  legatees.  Item  I  devise  to  cozen  Sicklemore  my  Barber  ten  pounds. 

Appeared  personally  11  Septr  1710  Mary  Keble  (the  wife  of  Samuell  Keble  senr)  of  the 
pai’ish  of  Sfc  Dunstan’s  in  the  West,  London,  and  Dorothea  Wall,  who  doe  depose  that  they 

knewe  Joseph  Keble  late  of  Greyes  Inne  who  dyed  on  or  about  the  28th  of  August  last,  and 
that  being  at  (his)  Chambers  (there)  they  saw  (him)  goe  into  (his)  Closett  or  Study  and  take 
from  off  a  shelf  there  a  Book  in  Manuscript,  and  (take)  thereout  (his)  last  Will  and  Testament, 
with  a  postscript  with  these  words  “  I  devise  to  Cozen  Sicklemore  my  Barber  tenn  pounds  ” 
which  will  Mr  Thomas  Benn,  an  attorney  then  present,  read  over  in  the  presence  of  these 
deponents. 

Probatum  undecimo  Septembris  1710  Juramento  Mai’ise  Shepherd  executrieis. 

P.C.C.  181  Smith. 


SStill  of  %tb h,  1678. 

Stephen  Keble  of  Needham  Mai’ket,  co.  Suff.,  gent.,  by  his  will  (P.C.C.  128  Reve)  1  Nov.. 
1675,  proved  2  Nov.  1678,  devised  his  lands  in  Bacton  and  Wyverstone  to  Elizabeth  Keble,  his 
sister,  and  her  heirs,  and  to  Thomas  Keble,  his  brother,  his  Manor  of  Filious  alias  Fyliolys  and 
his  lands  in  Earl  Stonham  and  Needham ;  and  he  gave  bequests  to  Martha  Bennett  and  Rebecca 
Neve,  his  nieces,  and  to  John  Neve,  his  nephew,  at  their  several  ages  of  twenty-one  years. 
To  his  mother  he  left  £10  per  annum  out  of  his  lands.  And  he  appointed  his  brother  Thomas 
Keble  and  his  sister  Elizabeth  Keble  as  his  executors. 


2  L2 


276 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


^ctucjm  front  tfjc  ^uffolii  Jftsttattou,  1664. 


John  Kehle  of  Stowmarket.= 


John  Keble  of  Stowmarket.— Ann  da:  of  Richard  How  of  Stowmarket. 


John  Keble  of  Stowmarket,  1664.=rElizabeth  da.  of  Tho  :  Kemp  of  co.  Essbx. 


John  Keble,  sone  8f  hr  1664. 


Thomas,  2  sone. 


Roger,  3  sone. 


firtrigrer  from  tljr  ILontiou  ©tsitatton,  1664. 


Giles  Keble  of  Old  NewtorrA n  Com:  Suff.- 


i — 

Tho  := 
Keble 
of  Old 
New¬ 
ton. 


Robt.=f=.  .  .  da.  of 


Keble 
of  Old 
New¬ 
ton. 


Tho:  s.  h., 

1664. 


Smith 
of  ..  .  nere 
Bungy  in 
Suff. 


Geoffry=r 
Keble  of 
Old  New¬ 
ton,  3 
sonn.  /\ 


Wm  Keble, 
clerk,  4 
sonne. 


A 


James  Keble 
of  Halsworth 
in  Suff  :  Sr  of 
Bernards  Inn, 
5  sone. 


Joseph =p  Rich  :  Keble  of  Graijs^y 

Keble  of 
London, 
mrcht. 


A 


Giles  Keble  of=j=Mary  d :  of  John 


Old  Newton. 


Denny  of  Little 
Stonham  in  Suff : 


John  Keble  of—.  .  .  da.  of  .  .  . 
London, Grocer.  .  .  .  Crawley  of 
London. 


John  Keble  of  London,—  Eliz  :  d  :  of  Tho  :  Croft  Tho  :  Keble,  Elizab  : 

1673,  set :  28.  of  London.  set.  22.  set  :  30. 


Inn,  one  of  the  Kepers 
of  ye  great  Seale  in 
ye  Long  Parliament. 


d:  of  Sic- 
klemore. 


John. 


Rich  : 


Joseph. 


— l 

Susan. 


•prtJtgm  from  tfjc  CaniJlrr  Canner,  180.  91. 


Keble  of  Earles  Stonham.- 


’Thomas=f 
Keble  of 
Earles 
Stonham. 


Robert  Keble  :  he  married 
Joane  Culham. 


Joane  married  to  Rich¬ 
ard  Girling. 


Stephen  Keble  of  Bacton.^ j= 


married  to  . 


Curteys  of  Framsden. 


I - — I  I — I — ! - - 1 

....  Keble  of  Creting,  Susan  Keble.  John,  Ralph,  Jeffery.  A  daughter  mar- 
an  Attorney.  ried  to  Benham. 


Brice  Keble  of  Earles  Ston-  Miles  Keble. 

ham :  he  sold  his  chiefe  — 

house  and  lands  to  Dyonise  John  Keble, 

Whinnery.  =f=  ^fc. 

/k 


Samuel=f=Grace  Aldred  (da.  of)  Joseph 


Keble. 


Aldred  of  Aspall  Stonham  (by) 
Mary  Sallowes  ( his  wife). 


Frances  Keble  first  married  to  W"‘ 
Whitbye  rector  of  Earles  Stonham. 
Her  2d  husband  was  Robert  Newton 
of  Needham.  She  died  s.p. 


i - 1 - 

Samuel.  Thomas. 


Robert.  Brice.  John.  Joseph.  Elizabeth.  Grace.  Stephen. 


Nathaniel. 


KEBLE  OF  STOWMARKET. 


277 


iPctugm,  £\rMc  of  ^totomarliet. 


Richard,  Kehle.  Pedigree,  Add.  MS.  5521,  fo.  168.=j=Jfawd  the  daughter  of  Croftes  of  Dalton. 


Richard  Kehle  of  Kehle  the  Heires ,=p 


Richard  Kehle  of  Kehle  the  Heires.=rMary  the  daughter  Sf  heir  of  Thomas  Panell. 


John  Kehle,  the  heir,  of  Stowmarket,  co.  Suffolk.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  1530,=j=Margaret,  named  in  her  husband’s  Will,  11  January  1530. 
proved  Oct.  1531. 


- p- - — | 

Robert  Reble,  of  Stowmarket,  son q=Margaret,  William  Keble,  1521,  ex-  Stephen  Keble,  of  Earl  Stonkam.p= Anne,  his  Richard  Keble, 


and  heir;  ob.  vita  patris.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  1521. 


his  wife.  ecutor  to  his  brother  Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  1548.  |  wife.  of  Stowmarket. 

Robert.  ^  Will,  1558. 

Keble  of  Earl  Stonham. 


i - -  i - 1 - 1 - 1 - - - 1 — i 

John  Keble,  the  heir.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb., =j=Elizabeth,  da.  of  John  Thomas  Henry  Keble,  James  Keble,  William  Keble,  Two 


1565.  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Lezons. 


King.  Add.  MS.  5524.  Keble,  3d  son. 

2d  son. 


4th  son. 


5th  son. 


daughters. 


William  Keble,  the  heir, =j= Anne,  sister  and  devisee  .  .  .  ,  wife  of  ...  Byrd;  Giles  Keble,  of  Old  Newton, =pAnne,  sister  &  coheir  of  Jeff  - 


of  Gipping,  co.  Suffolk. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1608. 


of  Roger  Bell,  of  Wes-  had  son  Richard  Byrd,  of  2d  son.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
thorpe,  co.  Suff.,  gent.,  Stowupland,  1608.  1623.  Inq.  p.m.  22  Jac. 

1575. 


rey  Went,  of  Woodbridge. 
His  Will,  Arch.  Suif.,  1612. 


A 

Keble  of  Old  Newton. 


John  Keble,  of  Stowmarket,1 
son  and  heir ;  had  eight  chil¬ 
dren  under  age  in  1608. 


.  .  ,  wife  of  John  Elizabeth  Keble,  sole  Anne  Keble,  marriedp=Thomas  Tyrrell,  of  Gipping, 


Roydon  in  1608  ;  executrix  to  her  fa-  and  had  issue,  1608. 
had  issue.  ther  1608. 


Esq.  Inq.  p.m.  13  Chas.  I,  ob. 
20  April  13  Charles  I. 


~1 — i 


John  Keble,  of  Stow-^pAnne,  da.  of  Richard  Robert  Keble,  bapt.  Elizabeth,  b.  1596, 


market,  draper.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  1641 ; 
mar.  after  1612. 


Howe,  gent.,  Lord  of  at  Stowmarket  in  and  Susan,  bap.  1606 
Abbot’s  Hall  Manor  1599.  at  Stowmarket. 

in  Stowmarket. 


William  Tyrrell,  Esq.,  of  Butley  Abbey, 
2d  son  ;  godson  to  Wm.  Keble,  1608  ;  mar. 
Lady  Forthe.  His  Will,  P.C.C.  1657;  s.p. 


i - - 1 - * - 1 - 1 - 1 

John  Keble,  of  Stowmarket,  gent.,  “  the  eldest  of  the=j=Elizabeth,dau.  of  Thos.  Thomas  Keble,  Robert  Keble,  Richard  ?  .  .  .  mar. 


family,”  entered  pedigree  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation 
1664.  Will,  P.C.C.  19  Lloyd,  proved  1685. 


Kemp,  devisee  of  Eliz.  under  age  in  under  age  in  Keble ;  to  Mr.  Ro- 
Kemp,  of  Twinstead,  1641 ;  2d  son.  1641  ;  3d  son.  4th  son.  bert  Eyre, 
Essex,  1662.  P.C.C.  1641. 


i - - r— - 1 

John  Keble,  of  Combes,  co.=pBridget,  only  da.  of  John  Burrell,  Roger  Keble,  3d  son,  devisee  Thomas  Keble,  2d  son,  of-pMary,  his 


Suff.,  gent.  ;  son  and  heir 
1664,  living  1692. 


of  Thetford,  D.D.  She  died  in  of  Thomas  Keble,  of  Old  New-  Combes,  clerk.  Will,  Arch. 
1724.  Chan.  Proc.,  Kehle  c.  Wright,  ton,  1684.  Sudb.,  proved  1686. 


widow,  liv¬ 
ing  in  1686. 


I - - -  T’  "T"  '  I 

John  Keble,  of  Stowmarket,  gent.,  eld.  Burrell  Keble,  of  Stowmarket, =pSarah,  Thos.  Keble,  Katherine,  wife  of 


son.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  N.  1726;  lands  to  surgeon.  Will,  P.C.C.  ob.  1755, 
Burrell  Keble,  his  brother;  ob.  s.p.  set.  65.  M.I.  at  Earl  Stonham. 


his 

wife. 


living  1726. 


Daniel  Quantrell, 
1726. 


1 - 1 

Thos.  Keble, 
son  and 
heir. 


Sarah  Keble,  sole  daughter  and  heir,  1755. 


278 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


JOrtugrre,  Affair  of  Carl 


John  Keble,  the  Heir,  of  Stowmarket,  co.  Suffolk.=j=Margaret,  his  wife,  named  in  her  husband’s  Will, 


Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  1530,  proved  1531. 


11  January  1530. 


Robert  Keble,  of  Stowmarket, =j=Margaret,  Stephen  Keble,  of  Earl  Stonham,  co.  Suffolk.=j=Anne,  his  wife.  Her  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  3  Nov. 


son  and  heir ;  ob.  vita  patris. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  1521. 


his  wife,  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  1548  ;  lands  called  Kents, 
1521.  etc.,  in  Stowmarket. 


A 


4  E.  6,  names  many  grandchildren. 


Gregory  Keble,  of  Earl  Ston¬ 
ham.  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  1559  ; 
tenements  in  Stowmarket  and 
lands  in  Thorney  and  Saxton. 


Joan,  da.  of  Robert 
Harlewyn,  of  Ash 
next  Campsey,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C. 


.  .  .  wife  of  William  Blomfield, 
of  Aspall  Stonham ;  by  whom 
sons  Stephen,  Gregory,  Edmund 
and  Bennet,  and  three  daus. 


Edmund  Keble,  of; 
Earl  Stonham,  1550. 
Chan.  Proceedings, 
Series  II,  195,  21. 


Catherine,  da.  of  Robert 
Glanvile,  lord  of  Hurts 
Manor,  Saxmundham, Suf¬ 
folk. 


i — n - 

Edmund  & 
William, 
living 
1559. 


Thomas  (probably 
Thomas  Keble,  of 
Earl  Stonham  & 
Filliols,  1588). 


— i 


Stephen  Keble,  of  Earl  Stonham,  lord  of  Thorney  Campsey  m.^pJoan,  Anne, Mary,  & 
1579  ( Baldrey  c.  Keble,  Series  II.  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  1603;  living  Joan,  named 
tenements  called  Hamouds,  and  lands  bought  of  William  1603.  in  their  fa- 
Keble  the  heir.  ther’s  Will. 


- i  ] 

I  I 

Arthur 
&  Anne, 
living 
1553. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of 
J ohn  Morgan  als. 
Carter,  1603. 


Stephen  Keble,  of  Earl  Stonham.1 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.  1616 ;  lands  in 
Stowupland,  etc. 


-Dorothy,  da.  of  George 
Thorowgood,  of  Barham, 
co.  Suffolk,  42  Eliz. 


Gregory  Keble,  to 
have  tent,  called 
Hammonds,  1603. 


- 1 - 

Thomas, 

living 

1603. 


- 1 — i 

Gertrude  and 
Anne,  living 
in  1603. 


John  Keble,  exor.  to  his 
brother  Stephen  Keble, 
1640;  had  2d  wife,  Ju¬ 
dith,  1640. 


Stephen  Keble,  of  Woodbridge,  mercht.=f  Elizabeth,  sister  to  Wil- 


Will,  P.C.C.  130  Coventry,  1640;  inq.  p.m. 
17  Chas.  I ;  had  Julions  Manor  in  Ston¬ 
ham,  and  lands  in  Stowmarket. 


liam  Wells,  of  Halver- 
gate,  co.  Norfolk,  gent.  ; 
marriage  settlemt.  1636. 


Robert 

Keble, 

1616. 


Dorothy,  w.  of  Sami.  Bridges. 
Phillip,  w.  of  Joseph  Allen. 
Joane,  w.  of  William  Cheney. 


John  Keble, heir 
presumptive  to 
his  uncle  Ste¬ 
phen  Keble,  in 
1640. 


Dorothy  Keble,  sole  da.  &  heir,  1st  wife=j=Robert  Marriott,  of  Bredfield, — Anne,  2d  wife,  da.=j=Edward  Mann,  Esq.  of 


of  Robert  Marriot.  She  was  devisee  of 
Simon  Wells,  of  Woodbridge,  gent. 
(P.C.C.  Penn),  1668),  who  names  his 
“  tender  nieces,”  Dorothy  and  Margaret 
Marriott. 


co.  Suffolk,  Esq.  (Visitn.  Suf¬ 
folk,  1664).  Will,  P.C.C.  68 
Beuce,  27  Dec.  1675,  proved 
15  June  1676,  leaving  many 
Suffolk  manors. 


&  coheir  of  James 
Wythe,  of  Frams- 
den,gent.  Hiswill, 
P.C.C.  31  Penn,  is 
dated  8  Aug.  1668. 


Ipswich,  her  2d  hus¬ 
band.  His  Will,  P.C.C. 
73  Bath,  is  dated  20 
March  1679 ;  probate 
27  Nov.  1680. 


A 


Dorothy  Marriott,  eldest  da, “‘Thomas  Knight,  of  Bredfield,  and  after  of  Woodbridge,  Esq.,  son  of 
and  coheir,  survived  her  hus-  John  Knight,  principal  Surgeon  to  King  Charles  II;  made  Will, 
band  and  died  without  issue.  P.C.C.  67  Bence,  6  Feb.  1675;  admon.  given  15  June  1676. 


Margaret  Marriott,  youngest  da. 
&  coheir,  to  whom  her  father  be¬ 
queathed  his  Manor  of  Bredfeld.. 
She  was  under  age  in  1675. 


KEBLE  OF  STOWMARKET. 


279 


iPrtugrre,  iublr  of  #lti  0rU)ton. 


Giles  Keble  of  Old  Newton,  2d  son  of  John  = 
Keble,  the  Heir.  AVill,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1623. 
Inq.  p.m.  22  Jas.  Manor  of  Lezons. 


Anne,  sister  and  coheir  of  Jeffrey  Went 
of  Woodbridge,  who  made  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  20  July  1612. 


1.  Thomas  Keble  of=f=Elizabeth,  da. 


Old  Newton,  gent. 
Will,  1646.  Mary, 
da.  of  Thomas 
Tyrrell  of  Gipping, 
Esq.,  1st  wife,  s.p. 


and  h.  of  Hen. 
Darby  of 
Needham,  co. 
Suff.,  gent., 2d 
wife. 


3.  William  Keble,- 
Rector  of  Rings- 
hall.  Will,  P.C.C. 
132  Nabbs,  1669. 
Manor  of  Little 
Finborough. 


;.  .  .  sister  of 
Robert  Hov- 
ell  als. Smith 
of  Ashfield, 
co.  Suffolk, 
gent. 


Thomas  Keble  of  01d=f=Penelope,  da. 


Newton,  gent.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  1684.= 
Mary,  sister  of  Wm. 
Meadows,  gent.,  1st 
wife;  s.p. 


and  h.  of  Sir 
Henry  Dere¬ 
ham,  of  West 
Dereham, 
Bart.,  2d  wife. 


“i — l 
Eliza¬ 
beth. 

Mary. 


Susan,  w. 
of  George 
Peppen,R. 
of  Rings- 
hall,  1659. 


Mary, w. of 
.  .  .  Lund, 
1659. 

Elizabeth, 
Anne  and 
Frances. 


4.  James  Keble  of=j=Joan,  da. 


Halesworth  and  Bar¬ 
nards  Inn,  gent. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff., 
1650.  Is  called  5th 
son  in  London  Visi¬ 
tation. 


and  coh. 
of  .  .  .  . 
Burrow. 


7.  Geoffry  Keble= 
of  Dagworth  in 
Old  Newton, gent., 
youngestson.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  1660; 
called  3d  son,  Lon¬ 
don  Visitatation. 


Penelope,  sole  da.  and  h.,  aged 
11  in  1692.  Keble  c.  Meadows, 
Mitford,  437,  37. 


Robert  Hill,  sister’s  son  and  heir  pre¬ 
sumptive  to  Thomas  Keble,  1684, 
then  beyond  the  seas. 


John  Keble  of 
Halesworth, 
gent.  Will, 
P.C.C.272Brent, 
in  May,  1652 ; 
prob.  May  1653  ; 
ob.  unm.  and 
s.p. 


Elizabeth. 


l — i - 

Mary,  w.  of 
Thomas 
Partridge, 
1660. 

Susan,  w. 
of  Jo. 
Symond, 
gent. 


i 


i — - — i 

Anne 

and 

Temper¬ 

ance, 

living 

1660. 


r~ 


2.  Robert  Keble=rAnne,  sister  of 


of  Old  New¬ 
ton,  gent.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb., 
1626. 


John  Smith  of 
Attleborough, co. 
Norff.,g3nt.  She 
made  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  1656. 


Margaret,  w.  of 
.  .  .  Wetherby  of 
Haughley,  1623. 
Her  will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  was  proved 
1651. 


5.  Richard  Keble, : 
Esq.,  of  Gray’s  Inn, 
one  of  the  Keepers 
of  the  Great  Seal. 
Tablet  in  Tudden- 
ham  Church. 


i — 


J  ohn  Keble  > 
London,  1656, 
mar.  .  .  .  da. 
of  .  .  .  Craw¬ 
ley  of  London. 


Elizabeth,  w.  of 
John  Nunn  of 
AshfieldThorpe, 
Norff.,  1656,  and 
had  issue. 


Anne,  Mary, 
Francis,  Doro¬ 
thy  and  Alice, 
named  in  their 
father’s  will, 
1626. 


Joseph  Keble  of 
Gray’s  Inn,  Esq., 
ob.  s.p.  Will, 
P.C.C.  181  Smith, 
1710.  Keble’s  Re¬ 
ports. 


Mary,  da.  of 
John  Sickle- 
more  of  Sic- 
klemore  Hall, 
near  Ipswich, 
mar.  lie.  1623. 


Anne, 
wife  of 

Tevell 
in  1623. 


- 1 

6.  Joseph 
Keble  of 
London, 
merchant, 
dead  in 
1662. 


Temperance  Jef¬ 
fries  of  Wales. 
Her  mother’s  will, 
P.C.C.  230  Brent, 
15  Mar.  1652. 


John 

MaryKeble  of 

Mary. 

Keble, 

St.  Andrew’s 

— 

s.  and 

Holborn. 

Sarah, 

h.  ap¬ 

Will,  P.C.C. 

the 

parent, 

132  King, 

young¬ 

1647. 

1678 ;  ob.  s.p. 

est  da. 

- 1 — l 

Temperance, de¬ 
visee  of  John 
K.  of  Hales¬ 
worth,  1652. 

Elizabeth. 


Giles  Keble=fMary,  da.  of  James  Keble. 


of  Old  New¬ 
ton,  gent.,  s. 
and  h. 


John  Denney, 
of  Little  Ston- 
ham. 


Thomas  Keble, 
living  1623. 


Richard  Keble  of- 
Old  Newton,  Esq. 
Will, P.C.C.103  Hare, 
1683,  proved  1684. 


Elizabeth,  da.  and 
coh.  of  Edmund  Cot¬ 
ton  of  Finningham, 
co.  Suff.,  Esq. 


Samuel  Keble  of  Lon-=rMary,  his  widow, 


don,  bookseller,  chief 
heir  of  John  Keble  of 
Halesworth,  1652. 


was  of  St.  Dun- 
stan’s  in  the  West, 
London,  1710. 


John  Keble  of  Lon-=j=Elizabeth,  da. 


don,  aged  28,  1673, 
3d  in  the  entail  of 
Thomas  Keble’s  es¬ 
tates,  1684. 


of  Thomas 
Croft  of  Lon¬ 
don. 


- ! — i — i 

Thomas  Keble,  set.  24, 
1673.  _ 

Elizabeth,  set.  30,  1673. 
Susan. 


Joseph  Keble,  son 
and  h.,  1683,  “  his 
ill  choice  of  the 
service  of  the  seas.” 


Mary,  under  age,  1683, 
mar.  .  .  .  Shepherd.  Her 
da.  Mary  was  chief  heir 
to  her  great  uncle,  Joseph 
Keble,  1710. 


Samuel  Keble  the 
younger ;  devisee  of 
Joseph  Keble  of 
Gray’s  Inn,  1710. 


Elizabeth,  a  year  old  in  1673. 


- 1 

Anne. 


280 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ffefctgrtr,  I\riilr  of  JftUtote. 


Thomas  Keble,  of  Earl  Stonham,  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Filliols  ;-pElizabeth,  da.  and  devisee  of  Robert  Salmon,  of 


brother,  perhaps,  to  Stephen  Keble  of  that  place. 
Arch,  Suff.  27  Jan.  1588,  proved  18  Mar.  following 


Will, 


Needham  Market,  co.  Suffolk. 
Suff.,  1529. 


His  Will,  Arch. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of  Raphe 
Hoggar,  by  whom  issue 
in  1558  ;  named  1627  in 
her  brother’s  Will. 


Alice,  wife  (1588)  of  John  Cur- 
teys,  of  Framsden  ;  had  issue 
John,  Ralph,  Jeffery  Curteys, 
and  a  dau.  mar.  to  .  .  .  Ben- 
ham. 


Marie,  wife  of 
John  Ponchard, 
1588 ;  had  issue 
John  and  James 
Ponchard. 


John  Keble,  living  1588  ;  was  late  of  Bromeshall,  ao. 
1625.  Whitby  c.  Keble,  Miscel.  Chanc.  Proceedings.  By 
Elizabeth,  his  wife,  had  only  son,  John  Keble,  who  came 
to  great  want. 


Thomas  Keble,  of  Earl  Stonham.1 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1627,  prob. 
1629  ;  names  Alice  Burlingham, 
his  grandchild. 


.  .  da.  and  coh. 
of  Miles  Docker. 
Edgar  c.  Keble, 
Eliz.  B.  ^  A. 


Stephen  Keble,  of  Bac-= 
ton,  co.  Suffolk  ;  lord,  of 
the  Manor  of  Filliols  in 
Earl  Stonham. 


Martha,  da.  &  coh.  of  Thomas 
Smith,  of  Bacton,  who  d.  1620; 
Rebecca,  her  sister,  m.  Thos. 
Cullum,  Esq. ;  another  sister 
m.  Hovell  als.  Smith. 


Robert=pJoan  Culham;  by 
Keble.  Leonard  Nunn,  of 
Framsden,  her  2d 
liusb.,  she  had  no 
I  issue. 


Brice  Keble,  of  Earl  Stonham, 
mar.  and  had  issue ;  sold  his 
chief  house  and  lands  to  Dionise 
Whinnery.  =f= 

A 


Frances,  mar.  IstWilliam  Whitby,  Rec¬ 
tor  of  Earl  Stonham  ;  2d,  Robert  New¬ 
ton,  of  Needham.  His  Will,  P.C.C.  30 
Mico.  1664.  Shed.  s.p.  Whitby  c.  Keble. 


- 1 

Susan 

Keble. 


Joan  Keble,  da.  and  heir,  mar. 
Richard  Girling,  of  Framsden, 
a  chief  constable.  Girling  ped. 
Tanner  MS. 


Miles  Keble, gent. 
John  Keble,  etc. 
Peter  Keble, 1627. 


SamuelKeble,  of  Creting, = 
devisee  of  Elizabeth  Sal- 
lowes  1659,  P.C.C.  147 
Nabbs.  Will, Arch. Suff.  18 
March  1679,  prob.  1680. 


Grace,  da.  of  Joseph  Aldred, 
of  Aspall  Stonham,  and  Mary 
Sallowes,  his  wife,  and  devi¬ 
see  of  Andrew  Felgate  1632 
in  Will,  Arch.  Suff. 


- 1 

Judith, 
mar.  to 
.  .  .  Al- 
derton. 


Nathaniel  Keble,  of  Creting,  gent.,=j=Frances,  his 


an  attorney.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
1661,  prob.  1662  ;  lord  of  Filliols 
Manor,  1639  ;  lands  in  Bacton,  Wy- 
verston,  and  Earl  Stonham. 


Samuel  Keble,  devisee  of  his  Thomas  and 
uncle  Robert  Newton,  1661 ;  of  Brice  Keble, 
his  brother,  John  Keble,  1673.  living  1659. 


Robert  &  Joseph  Keble, 
devisees  of  John  Keble, 
their  brother,  1673. 


Elizabeth  and  Grace, 
devisees  of  their  bro¬ 
ther  John  Keble,  1673. 


Elizabeth,  wife  in  1682 
of  John  Fowle,  Rector 
of  Creting  St.  Peter ; 
mar.  at  Barking,  1682. 


wife,  devisee 
of  John  Ben¬ 
nett, her  son- 
in-law,  1680. 


Nathaniel  Keble,  of  Crowfield,  co.-f Elizabeth, 


Suff.,  yeoman.  Will,  Arch.  Suff. 
1705,  names  Stephen  Keble,  his 
brother,  Brice  and  Joseph  Keble. 


his  wife. 
Will, Cur. 
Ep.Norw. 
1711. 


Stephen  Keble,  devi¬ 
see  1673  of  his  brother 
John,  and  1705  of  his 
brother  Nathaniel. 


John  Keble, of  Ston¬ 
ham  Parva,  ob.  s.p. 
Will  nunoup.  Arch. 
Suff.  1673. 


i - - - 1 

Stephen  Keble,  of  Needham,  I 
gent.,  lord  of  Filliols  Manor,  j 
Will,  P.C.C.  128  Reve  1675,  | 
ob.  s.p.  1678.  M.I.  in  Earl 
Stonham  chancel. 


- 1 

Rebecca, 
wife  of  .  .  , 
Neve ;  had 
issue  John 
and  Rebec¬ 
ca  N  eve, 
livingl675. 


Nathaniel  Keble,  of  Tun- 
stall,  co.  Suff.,  and  after 
of  Crowfield.  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.  1709. 


-Alice  Aldred, 
mar.atCodden- 
ham  28  June 
1702. 


Thomas  Keble,  of  Cogges- 
hall,  co.  Essex,  lord  of  Fil¬ 
liols  Manor.  Will,  P.C.C. 
Ill  Fane  1690  ;  d.  1692. 


Nathaniel  Keble,  devisee  Alice,  John  Keeble,  posthum- 
of  Elizabeth  Keble,  his  living  ous  son,  bapt.  at  Cod- 
grandmother  1711.  1711.  denham  1709. 


Mary,  da. 
of  Isaac 
Cooke. 


— l - 

Martha  Keble,; 
named,  1661, 
in  her  father’s 
Will. 


John  Bennett,  citizen  &  pewterer  of 
London.  Will,  P.C.C.  40North  3Dec. 
1680,  prob.  1681 ;  messuages  in 
London  and  Bury  St.  Edmunds. 


Mary.  Rebocca.  Martha  BeDnett,  sole  da.  and  heir,  devisee  of  Stephen 
Keble,  her  uncle,  1675;  executrix  to  her  father  1681. 
Martha.  She  mar.  Mr.  James  Boys,  Vicar  of  Coggeshall,  1683. 


JElrrtpman  of 


Hatton. 


Armorial  hearings. 


The  Arms  of  Pretyman,  Gules,  a  lion  passant  between  three 
mullets  Or,  were  first  set  out  at  the  burial  of  Christopher  Wase,  of 
London,  for  Anne,  his  wife,  daughter  of  William  Pretyman,  of  Bacton. 
They  are  recorded  by  Camden,  who  was  present  on  the  occasion,  in 
his  book  of  Funeral  Certificates,  still  remaining  in  the  office.  In  1607 
they  were  passed  by  Camden,  Clarencieux,  and  William  Segar,  Garter, 
to  Sir  John  Pretyman,  together  with  a  Crest,  Two  lions’  gambs  erased, 
holding  a  mullet,  all  Or.  Harl.  MS.  6095,  fo.  27.  At  the  Visitation 
of  Suffolk  in  1612  they  are  appended  to  the  pedigree  of  Pretyman, 
of  Thorndon.  Harl.  MS.  1820,  fo.  6J  b.  They  were  subsequently 
allowed  to  the  Pretymans  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk,  by  Sir  Edward 
Bysshe,  at  his  Visitations  of  those  counties  in  1664.  There  still  exists 
(1905)  at  Horningold,  in  Leicestershire,  over  the  chimney  piece  of  the 
old  manor  house,  which  came  to  the  family  by  the  marriage  of  Sir 
John  Pretyman,  Baronet,  with  the  heiress  of  Sir  George  Turpin,  the 
fine  escutcheon,  painted  upon  panel,  which  heads  the  pedigree  of  the 
Driffield  Pretymans  (see  p.  311).  The  achievement  is  that  of  John 
Pretyman,  the  Baronet’s  eldest  son,  who  died  vita  patris.  Prety¬ 
man,  quarterly  of  seven,  impales  Mennes,  quarterly  of  four.  The 


shields  are  as  follows - 


1,  Pretyman— Gules,  a  lion  passant  between  three  mullets  Or;  in  chief  a  label  of  three 

points  Argent. 

2,  Howe,  of  Stowmarket. — Argent,  a  chevron  between  three  wolves’  heads  erased,  Sable, 

langued  Gules. 

3,  Turpin,  of  Knaptoft. — Gules,  on  a  bend  Argent  three  lions’  heads  erased,  Sable,  langued 

of  the  first. 

4,  Kinnesman,  of  Lodington. — Argent,  a  fess  chequee  Or  and  Sable  between  six  cross- 

crosslets  of  the  last. 

5,  Tilley. — Argent,  a  cross  botonee  between  four  crescents  Gules. 

6,  Paynkll,  of  Boothby  Pagnel. — Gules,  a  cross  fleurie  Argent. 

7,  Gobion,  of  Knaptoft. — Quarterly  of  four,  1  and  4,  Or,  2  and  3,  Barry  of  six  Argent 

and  Gules ;  all  within  a  bordure  Sable  semee  of  fishes  Argent. 


o 


M 


282 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


The  above  for  Pretyman  impales  Mennes  :  Quarterly  of  four  : — 

1,  Mennes.— Gules,  a  chevron  Vair  between  three  leopards’  faces  Or. 

2.1  Stuart. — Or,  a  lion  rampant  within  a  double  tressure  fleurie  counter  fleurie  Gules ;  over 

all  a  ribbon  in  bend  sinister  Sable. 

3.1  —  Argent,  a  ship  within  a  double  tressure  fleurie  counter  fleurie  Azure. 

4,  Mennes.— As  above. 

There  were  Pretymans  in  Northumberland  in  1385.  Gilbert  Pratyman  of  that  county  was 
defendant  in  a  De  Banco  suit  in  the  eighth  and  ninth  years  of  Richard  the  Second.  See  L)e  Banco 
Rolls,  Mich.  8  Ric.  II,  m.  642  dorso,  and  Hil.  9  Ric.  II,  m.  135,  calendered  in  Harrison  MS., 
vol.  viii,  P.R.O. 


William  f retjman  of  Sactott,  1595. 

Sciant  fJsentes  A  futi  qd  Nos.  Robtus  de  Sengilton  de  Baketon  A  Thomas  atte  cros  de 
eadm  villa  concession9  dedirn9  A  hac  Psenti  carta  3a  confirmauim9  Join  Brygge  de  Baketon 
j?dict  vnu  mesuagm  edific  cu  vno  clauso  adiacent  cu  oitq  suis  ptin  in  villa  de  Baketon  iacent 
in?  tr9  WiRi  Pratyman  ex  vna  pte  T:  regal  viam  ex  alta  pte  ciu9  vnu  caput  abutt  sup  tr^ 

fMci  WiRi  Pratyman  9sus  orient  A  aliud  caput  abutt  sup  venellam  Petri  Houlot  vs  us  Occident. 
Concessim9  etiam  A  dedim9  pttto  Joki  Brygge  vnu  pictellu  A  vnam  puam  pec  pastre  cu  oibj 
suis  ptin  in  Baketon  ffdict  quo^  pdcm  pictetl  iacet  in?  ?r>  Johis  P’sone  ex  vna  pte  A  gardinu 
quondm  WiRi  Ossebn  ex  al?a  pte  A  vnu  caput  abutt  sup  croftu  Henr  Arnald  9sus  austru  A 
aliud  caput  abutt  sup  regal  viam  9s  us  aquiion.  Et  fide  a  pec  pastre  iac  in?  ?r?  Petri  Houlot 

ex  vna  pte  T  fr9  WiRi  Pratyman  ex  alia  pte  T  vnu  caput  abutt  sup  ?r')  fidci  Petri  9s us 

Occident,  que  quidm  fldcm  mesuag  cu  jidco  clauso  adiacent  [idem  pictella  T  [idea  pec  pastre 

quondm  fuer  Willi  Ossebn,  II  end  A  tenerid  fidem  mesuag  cti  fidco  claus  adiacent  fid  cm  picteR 
A  pdcam  pec  pastre  cu  oibj  suis  ptm  fidco  .Jo hi  Brygge  hered  A  assignat  suis  tie  capitalibj 
dms  feod  iR  p  suic  inde  debita  A  de  iure  consueta.  Et  Nos  fifat  Robtus  A  Thoms  A  hered 
nri  pdem  mesuag  cii  pdeo  clauso  adiacent  pdem  picteR  A  prdcam  pec  pastre  cu  oibj  suis  ptin 
fifato  Jobi  Brygge  hered  A  assignat  suis  conta  omes  gentes  Warantizabim9  imppetuu.  In  cui9 
rei  testiom  hinc  psenti  carte  nre  Sigilla  nra  apposumu9.  Hijs  testib},  Simone  Manser,  Thom 
Smyth,  Robto  Bounce,  Johne  Sphauk,  Robto  Berte  A  alijs,  Dat  apud  Baketon  die  Lune  px 
post  festu  Sci  Mictiis  Arc  hi  anno  regni  Reg  Rici  sedi  post  conquestu  decimo  septimo 

Bacton  Charter  at  Orwell  Park. 

Two  seals  are  attached  to  this  charter,  which  is  written  on  vellum. 


1  Quarters  2  and  3  are  presumably  the  arms  of  John  Stuart,  Earl  of  Carrick  (1630),  second  son  of 
Robert  Stuart,  Earl  of  Orkney  (1581),  natural  son  of  James  V  of  Scotland ;  Lady  Margaret  Stuart,  who  married 
Sir  Mathew  Mennes,  K.B.,  being  his  sole  daughter  and  heiress,  and  the  mother  of  Margaret,  also  sole  daughter 
and  heiress,  who  married  John  Pretyman,  1650. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


283 


Will  of  William  Sjprrtpmatt,  147 

Extract  (translated)  from  the  Court  Rolls  of  Bacton  Manor,  Thursday  before  St.  Margaret’s 
Day,  Ao.  19th  Edward  IV.  (July  1479) 

John  Furmage  (Rector  of  Bacton)  and  William  Cake,  Executors  of  the  Will  of  William 
Pratyman,  dated  13  July  1475,  surrender  in  Court — 

Seven  acres,  half  a  rood  and  14  perches  of  demesne  land  called  Blakeloud. 

One  piece  of  meadow  called  Head  halfaker,  in  a  meadow  called  Le  Kur  (in  Wyverston). 
One  acre  of  meadow  in  divers  pieces,  late  in  the  farm  of  John  Blake  of  Cotton — 
and  the  same  John  Furmage  says  this  was  done  in  fulfilment  of  the  will  of  the  said  William 
Pratyman,  according  to  the  said  alienation  ...  to  the  use  of  the  Images,  Organs,1  and 
other  ornaments  of  Baketon  Church. 


Still  of  JUire  Cake,  born  frrfoman,  1488. 

Translation.  Alicia  Cake  in  pura  viduatate  mea  de  Baketon,  the  4th  day  of  February 
1487.  My  soul  to  God  Almighty,  the  Blessed  Virgin  Mary  and  all  the  Saints.  My  body  to 
be  buried  in  the  churchyard  of  the  Blessed  Mary  of  Baketon.  To  the  high  altar  of  the 

church  there  for  tithes  omitted  xijd.  To  the  cathedral  church  of  Norwich  iiijd.  To  Jofiane 
Symmonds  my  daughter  four  pieces  of  land,  of  which  the  one  piece  was  of  Stephen  Hesset  in 

Baketon.  The  second  piece,  which  late  was  of  Roger  Mey,  lies  in  a  field  called  Marlecroft  in 

the  town  of  Cotton,  between  lands  of  John  Olyve  of  one  part,  and  lands  of  the  Bishop  of 

Norwich  of  the  other.  The  third  piece,  formerly  John  Olyves,  lies  in  the  said  field  and  town 

of  Cotton.  The  fourth  piece,  with  a  small  piece  of  pasture  in  Cotton  field  in  Marlecroft,  lies 

between  land,  late  of  William  Wyngefeld,  Esqr,  and  one  head  abuts  on  land  formerly  of  John 
Revet.  All  these  four  pieces  of  land,  with  one  piece  of  pasture  and  one  pightell,  William 
Pratyman  my  father  gave  to  me  and  John  Revet  my  husband  deceased  in  fee  simple,  as  by 
Charter  of  the  said  William  to  me  and  the  said  John  more  fully  appears.  The  said  pightel 

called  Goodlardes  lies  in  Baketon  between  a  pasture  of  John  Hervy  late  of  Cotton,  on  the 

north,  and  a  lane  leading  from  the  common  way  to  Marlecroft,  on  the  south.  I  give  and 
bequeath  to  the  said  Jofiane  Symmonds  the  said  four  pieces  of  ground,  the  pasture  and  the 

pightell  ;  out  of  the  profits  of  the  last  a  light  to  be  kept  before  the  Image  of  our  Ladye 

St.  Mary  of  Pety  in  Baketon  church,  during  her  life.  Said  daughter  Jofiane  to  bring  up  my 

son  Thomas,  and  to  find  and  keep  him  in  all  things ;  and  said  Thomas  to  obey  her. 

The  residue  I  bequeath  to  the  said  Jofiane,  and  she  to  buy  a  book  or  other  ornament 
of  use  for  Baketon  church,  and  to  pray  for  the  souls  of  John  Cake  and  John  Revet  my 
husbands,  my  parents,  and  all  benefactors.  I  make  said  Jofiane  sole  executor  of  this  will,  and 
appoint  James  Hobart,  gentleman,  and  John  Firmage,  clerk,  supervisors.  Witnesses,  my  spiritual 
father  the  Rector  of  Baketon,  Nicholas  Garnon  and  John  Reddham.  Proved  at  Baketon 
10th  March  1488.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  Liber,  “  Hubert,”  80b. 


2  M2 


1  Organs,  always  mentioned  at  this  date  as  a  pair  of  Organs. 


284 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  William  ^relgman,  1541. 

William  Pratyman,  the  iiij  daie  of  February  1541.  To  be  buried  in  Bakton  church 
yard.  To  the  high  altar  for  tithes  forgotten  xxd.  To  the  reparacon  of  the  church,  or  ells 
towarde  buying  of  an  ornament  in  the  said  churche  xxs.  An  humble  prest  to  singe  for  my 
soule,  my  wife’s  soule,  and  all  Cristen  soules  for  the  space  of  one  year.  To  the  mending  the 
highwayes  in  Bakton  and  Cotton.  I  geue  to  Wiftm  Pratyman  my  sonne  and  to  the  heires 
males  of  his  body  my  tent  that  I  dwell  in  all  the  landes,  meadowes,  pastures  and  woodes 
in  Bakton  belonging ;  and  also  Baldwyn  tent  in  Bakton ;  and  all  my  closes  and  pastures  called 
Starvis  close,  Garnom  buscheis  and  Hun^downe,  being  in  Thornehm  greater  in  the  Countie  of 
Suff.  And  if  it  shall  fortune  the  said  Wiftm  to  dye  wfjout  heires  males  of  his  bodye,  then  I 
will  the  said  closes  called  Starvise  close,  Garnon  bussheis  and  Hungerdown  shall  remain  vnto 
Wiftm  Pratyman  sonne  of  Thomas  Pratyman  of  Cotton  and  the  heires  males  of  his  body  for 

eumore.  And  if  the  said  Wihm  Pratyman  sonne  of  the  said  Thomas  dy  w‘out  heires  males  of 

his  body,  then  I  will  said  pastures  and  closes  remain  vnto  Thomas  Pratyman  sonne  of  said 

Thomas  of  Cotton.  And  if  he  dye  w*out  heires  j  males  of  his  bodye,  then  all  said  pastures  & 
closes  remayn  vnto  the  right  heires  of  the  said  Wilim  Pretyman  sonne  of  the  said  Wiftm 
Pratyman  the  elder  for  eumore.  To  the  said  Wiftm  Pratyman  my  sonne  my  closse  &  pasture 
called  Asynhaw  wood  in  Wekhm  Skeith  according  to  the  Indentures  graunted  by  Walter,  some- 
tymes  abbot  of  Colchester  for  the  terme  specified  in  said  Indentures.  To  the  same  Wiftm 
Pratyman  my  pightell  arable  called  Killes.  To  Thomas  Pratyman  my  sonne  and  his  heires  my 
tent  called  Coke  which  he  nowe  dwelleth  in  with  the  londes  belonging  in  Cotton  and  Bakton, 

and  oon  pece  of  londe  called  ffathererge  in  Cotton,  sometymes  Thomas  Thui'bern.  To  the  same 

Thomas  Pratyman  my  ffree  land  being  in  Cristifeld  in  Cotton.  To  poore  people  of  the  parish 
of  Bakton  in  bread  and  herrings  to  the  value  of  xxs.  To  Thomas  Pratyman  my  sonne  my 

londes  in  Mendleshin.  Vnto  Sir  John  Pratyman  my  londes  &  tentes  in  Haughley  after  the 
decease  of  Alice  Hammonde,  widow.  I  geve  to  Wiftm,  Thomas,  Elynor  <fc  John  Pratyman,  the 
children  of  Thomas  Pratyman,  all  my  profits  of  my  milch  kene  for  the  space  of  iiii  yeares 
after  my  deceas,  and  Sir  John  my  sonne  shall  have  for  his  labour  xxs.  To  Alice  Pratyman 

the  wife  of  Thomas  Pratyman  vi3  viijd.  To  each  of  my  god  children  iiijd.  Vnto  the  sexton 

of  Bakton  ij  good  milch  kene,  and  I  will  that  from  the  yerely  farm  of  the  said  two  kene 
there  be  found  one  Taper  of  Wax  in  the  chancel  of  Bakton,  and  there  to  burn  in  the  time 
of  divine  §uice  before  the  blessed  Sacrament  of  the  Altar  every  Sonday  &  holy  day  for  ever 
more.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  I  give  them  to  Sir  John  Pratyman  my  sonne  and  Thomas 
Pratyman  my  sonne  and  appoint  them  my  executors,  and  Wiftm  Pratyman  my  sonne  supervisor 
of  this  my  will.  Probat  xxv°  die  maij  1542. 

Arch.  Subd.  Book  “  Colman,”  page  36. 


inquisition  on  tin  toatlj  of  ®illiant  ^prttgntan,  1542. 

Inquisition  taken  at  Stowmarket  in  Suffolk  on  the  19th  day  of  July  in  the  34th  year  of 
Henry  VIII  after  the  death  of  William  Pratyman  the  elder.  It  was  deposed  that  said 
Wiftm  Pratyman  before  his  decease  was  seised  of  a  messuage  and  croft  and  of  divers  pieces 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


285 


of  land  in  Baketon  in  the  said  county  held  of  the  King  by  military  service,  and  so  seized 
by  his  Charter  dated  10th  June  in  the  30th  year  of  the  King’s  reign  he  gave  said  messuage 
after  his  death  to  Will’m  Pratyman  his  son  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever.  Said  William 
Pretyman  seinor  was  also  seized  of  two  acres  of  arable  land  sixty  acres  of  pasture,  ten  acres 
of  woods  and  thirty-five  acres  of  pasture,  called  Stervysclos  in  Thornham,  held  of  the  King  as 
of  the  Honor  of  Eye,  which  by  his  charter,  19th  January,  33  Hen.  8th  he  confirmed  to  the 
said  William  Pretyman  his  son,  Thomas  Pretyman  of  Cotton  John  Wightman  of  Wickhamskeith 
and  John  Symons  of  Baketon,  in  trust,  to  remain  to  William  Pretyman  the  son  of  Thomas 
Pretyman  and  the  heirs  males  of  his  body,  and  failing  such,  to  Thomas  Pratyman  the  son  of 
the  said  Thomas  Pratyman  of  Cotton  and  the  heirs  males  of  his  body,  and  in  default  of  these 
to  the  right  heirs  of  the  said  William  Pratyman  the  elder  for  ever.  William  Pratyman  the 
elder  was  also  seised  of  twelve  acres  and  a  rood  and  a  half  of  land  in  Cotton,  held  of  this 
King  as  of  the  Manor  of  Cotton  Bresworth  for  military  service.  This  by  his  charter,  dated 
10th  May  in  the  28th  year  of  Henry  VIIIth,  he  confirmed  to  Thomas  Pretyman  senr  of  Bakton 

and  John  Symond  to  hold  for  his  use  during  his  life,  and  after  his  decease  for  the  use  of 

Thomas  Pretyman  his  younger  son  and  his  heirs  for  ever.  The  jurors  also  said  on  oath  that 
said  William  Pretyman  Senr  was  seised  of  twenty  acres  in  Cotton  which  by  his  Charter 

19th  Jany  33  Hen.  8th,  he  gave  to  the  said  Thomas  Pretyman  his  son,  Peter  Pretyman  John 

Wightman  and  John  Pretyman  of  Bakton  to  the  sole  use  of  the  said  Thomas  Pretyman  the 
younger : — said  twenty  acres  being  held  of  this  King  as  of  his  Manor  of  Hemnall,  late  part 
of  the  possessions  of  the  Duke  of  Suffolk.  William  Pretyman  the  elder  died  on  the  15th  of 
March  last  past,  and  William  Pretyman  his  son  and  heir  is  of  the  age  of  forty  years  and 
upwards. 


SSttll  of  Sljomas  ftotijman,  1543. 

Thomas  Pratyman  of  Bactoiie  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  yeoman,  x°  July  1543.  My  body 
to  be  buried  in  Bactone  churchyard.  I  give  to  the  reparacion  of  the  church  xls.  To  the  high 
altar  for  tythes  forgotten,  xiij8  iiij'1 :  to  the  high  altar  of  Cotton  church,  iijs  iiijd :  to  the  high 
altar  of  Old  Newton  church,  xx8.  An  able  priest  to  singe  &  celebrate  masse  for  my  soule  for 
the  space  of  one  year.  To  Peter  Pratyman  &  his  heirs  all  my  messuages  &c.  in  Bacton.  To 
Robert  Pratyman  my  sonne  all  my  messuages  in  Old  Newton.  To  Robert  and  Peter  Pratyman 
my  children,  Cotton  Hall.  To  Jone  Pratyman  my  wife  my  tenement  in  Wickham  Skeith  & 
Cotton,  as  it  now  stands  in  farme  of  John  Fenne,  during  her  life,  and  afterwards  to  John 
Pratyman  &  his  heirs  for  ever.  Said  Robert  &  Peter  to  pay  Jone  my  wife  yearly  xiijs  iiijd.  To 
Thomas  Pratyman  «k  his  heirs,  the  son  of  Robert  Pratyman,  my  ij  tenements  lying  in  Bury,  in 
Gilde  Hall  Street. 

I  will  that  all  my  impliments  of  household  stuffe  be  equally  divided,  my  wife  to  take  the 
best  part.  I  will  that  she  have  my  plowe  pightell,  p’cell  of  my  tenement  in  Bactone  where  I 
doe  nowe  dwell,  with  agress  and  ingress  without  interruption  I  will  that  she  have  sufficient 
firewood  in  Cotton  Hall  during  her  natural  life. 

I  give  to  Thomas  Pratyman,  the  sone  of  Robert  Pratyman,  iij  milch  kyne  being  at 
Newton.  I  give  to  John  Pratyman,  the  son  of  Peter,  iij  milch  kyne  at  Wickfia  :  to  Jone 
Pratyman  the  daughter  of  Peter  iij  milch  kyne :  to  Jone  &  Bessie  Garnom,  one  cowe  between 


286 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


them;  to  Mary  Bedell  one  cow  at  Crossis ;  to  Alice  Fenne  one  cowe ;  to  Jone  Rokket  one  cowe  ; 
to  Jone  my  wyfe  vi  milch  beves,  being  at  home ;  to  Jone  Pratyman  ye  daughter  of  Peter  Pratyman, 
iiij  pounds  xiij8  iiijd,  which  Pakeha  doe  owe  me.  I  will  yl  everyone  of  my  god’children  haue  iiijd. 

The  rest  of  all  my  goods,  my  debts  payd  and  this  my  will  fulfilled,  I  give  them  unto 
Robert  Pratyman  and  Peter  Pratyman  ray  children,  which  Robert  and  Peter  I  doe  ordayne  my 
executors,  to  order  and  dispose  in  Dedes  of  Charytie  where  they  shall  se  best  to  be  done  to 
please  God.  In  witnes  hereof,  John  Pratima,  clerke ;  William  Browne,  smythe ;  John  Pratim  the 
elder  ;  Robert  Symond ;  Tho.  Warren. 

Arch.  Sub.  “  Longe,”  fol.  349. 

The  original  is  much  decayed,  but  does  not  appear  to  have  been  proved,  or  to  have  been 
signed  by  the  testator  or  witnesses. 


SHU!  of  |oatt  pretjman,  1545. 

Johan  Pratyman  of  Bacton  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  wedo,  the  vi  daie  of  April,  1545. 
My  sowle  to  Almighty  god,  or  blessed  Lady  arid  the  holye  company  of  Heaven.  To  repacon  of 
Bacton  church  iij8  iiijd.  To  Rychard  Hudson  the  curate  of  Bacton  vi8  viijd  and  to  Syr  Edmund 
Symond,  clarke,  vis  viijd  to  pray  for  my  soule.  I  will  that  Thomas  Pratyman  and  John 
Pratyman,  the  children  of  Robert  and  Peter  Pratyman,  have  all  my  cloose  in  Nether  Heyfield 
in  Dagworth.  To  the  highe  wayes  where  most  need  is  in  Bacton  xx8.  Executors  to  distribute 
to  the  poore  people  of  Bacton  &  Cotton  vi.  I  give  to  Thomas  Pratyman  viij8 ;  to  Alyce 
Collman,  my  sister,  one  cowe ;  to  Margaret  Garnom,  daughter  of  Thomas  Garnom,  one  cowe ;  to 
Besse  Garnom  &  Johan  Garnom,  between  them,  one  cowe ;  to  Margaret,  Agnes  &  Johan  Garnom, 
the  daughters  of  Nicholas  Garnom ;  to  Christopher  Garnom  xvid ;  to  Robert,  Johan  &  Elizabeth 
Garnom,  the  children  of  Edmonde  Garnom  xs  amonge  them ;  to  Alyce  ffenne  iij8  viijd ;  to  Johan 
Collman,  the  daughter  of  Henrye  Collman,  a  cowe ;  to  Agnes  Browne  the  daughter  of  William 
Browne  xijd ;  to  Johan  Pratyman  one  cowe;  to  Mawte  Bullen  &  Agnes  Whytehed,  my  Kepers, 
xiij8  iiijd  between  them ;  to  George  Bardwell  xijd ;  to  Robert  Sparrowe  iis.  I  give  to  John  & 
Johan  Pratyman,  the  children  of  Peter  Pratyman,  viij  sylver  spones  to  be  devided  betweene 
them.  1  give  my  ffetherbed  to  the  chyld  my  dowter  in  lawe,  Peter’s  wyfF,  ys  now  grete  wthall. 
I  will  that  my  hutche  shall  be  still  remaining  in  the  howse.  The  rest  of  my  goodes,  my  debts 
&  legacies  payd  &  my  bodye  honestly  broughte  to  the  ground,  I  bequeth  to  Peter  Pratyman, 
my  sonne,  whom  I  make  my  soole  executor  of  this  my  laste  wyll. 

This  will  was  proved  4th  May  1546.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Cole,”  p.  208. 


Inquisition  on  tht  toatlj  of  |obn  freeman,  1559. 

Taken  at  Stowmarket,  19th  Oct.  in  the  first  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  He  had  owned 
a  messuage  and  lands  in  Bacton  and  Cotton,  held  of  the  Queen  as  of  her  Manor  of  Bacton, 
which  he  had  inherited  from  John  Pretyman,  his  father.  Also  two  pieces  of  land,  late  Rayn- 
berds,  in  Bacton ;  tenements  called  Gentlemans  and  Cobbes,  and  land  called  Bradmedow  in 
Bacton,  held  of  the  Queen.  Also  a  messuage,  with  curtilage,  in  Westhorpe,  with  divers  lands, 
ome  called  Flabourewent ;  a  tenement  there  called  the  Harte :  thirty  acres  in  Fynnyngham 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


287 


called  Chambers ;  thirty -six  acres  of  pasture  called  the  Hall  Close ;  eighty  acres  called  Ashmans 
in  Gislingham  held  of  the  Queen  as  of  her  Honour  of  Eye  ;  and  lands  in  Cotton,  Bacton, 
Fynnyngham,  Westhorpe,  Wickham,  Stoke,  and  Thornham  Magna,  held  respectively  of  Sir 
Thomas  Cornwallis,  Anthony  Russhe,  Esq.,  and  the  Queen.  Also  of  lands  in  Old  Newton, 
Gipping,  Dagworth,  Bacton  and  Cotton,  held  of  Robert  Spring,  Esq.,  and  Sir  John  Terrell. 
On  the  21st  of  February  1559  (O.S.)  said  John  Pretyman  made  his  will  in  these  English  words: — 
I  will  that  Margret  my  wife  shall  have,  in  recompense  of  hir  durye,  hir  dwellinge  in  my 
mancon  with  the  occupation  of  all  the  londes  belonging,  and  my  tenement,  called  Cobbes, 

duringe  hir  naturall  life  John  Pretyman  my  eldest  sonne  shall  have  my  tenement  in  Cotton 

called  Holmes  with  londs  belonging,  now  in  the  tenure  of  Hewghe  Gage ;  also  my  tenementes, 
londes  and  underwoods  in  Wyckham,  Fynnyngham,  Thornham  and  Stoke ;  a  tenement  in  Bacton 
called  Bownsers  and  a  close  called  Compence  and  Gipping  laylonde  close.  Thomas  Pretyman 
my  sonne  shall  have,  after  the  death  of  Margaret  my  wife,  my  mancon  that  I  now  dwell  in 
called  David  Jones;  my  tenementes  and  londes  called  Cobbes;  my  tenement  with  londes  called 
Gentlemans ;  lands,  tenementes  and  meadowes  in  Newton  called  Russons ;  my  close  in  Gislingham 
called  Ashemans ;  and  my  close  called  Compence  (except  that  is  before  bequeathed  to  J ohn  my 
son).  I  will  that  Thomas  my  sonne  shall  have  Philipp’s  ffelde1  and  the  gresse  close  and 
Wilbone  medowe1  as  it  lyeth  within  the  towne  of  Cotton  :  he  to  enter  into  all  seid  londes 

when  he  come  to  the  age  of  two  and  twenty  yeres.  For  defaulte  of  issue,  lawefullye  begotten, 
of  his  body,  1  will  seide  tenementes  and  londes  remeyne  vnto  John  and  William  my  sonnes 
and  ther  heyeres,  to  be  equallye  devided  between  them.  Vnto  William  my  sonne  my  tene¬ 

mentes  and  londes  in  Westhorpe,  Wyverstone,  Walsham  and  Backtone,  except  what  before  willed, 
and  a  close  in  Gislingham  called  ....  he  to  enter  said  londes,  &c.,  when  he  comes  to  the 
age  of  xxiij  yeres.  For  default  of  yssue  of  his  bodye  these  to  remeyne  to  John  and  Thomas 
my  sonnes.  Residue  to  my  executor,  and  also  the  occupieng  of  all  my  londes  vntill  seid  sonnes 
come  to  lawfull  age.”  Said  John  Pratyman  died  at  Bacton  (day  and  year  left  blank),  and  John 
Pratyman  his  son  and  next  heir  is  of  the  age  of  two  and  twenty  years  and  three  months  at 
the  time  of  the  taking  of  this  inquisition. 


Mill  of  ®l)omas  1561. 

The  tenthe  of  December,  1561,  1  Thoms  Pretyman  of  Nedhrn  in  the  County  of  Norff., 
yeoman,  doe  ordeine  and  make  this  my  last  will.  I  geue  to  the  pore  folckes  of  Bacton  and 
Cotton  three  pounde ;  to  the  reparinge  of  the  highe  waies  leadinge  from  Bacton  churche  to 
Wetherden  vi1  xiij8  iiijd.  I  will  that  William  Pretyman  my  sonne  shall  paie  to  Margaret  my 
wiffe  oute  of  myne  Mannor  of  Boyes  the  yerely  rent  of  xiij1  vis  viii11  duringe  (her)  life  naturall, 
vpon  condition  that  she  release  her  right,  title  and  dower  of  my  landes  in  the  counties  of 
Norff :  and  Suff.  To  the  saide  Margarett  all  such  vtensills  and  stuff  of  howshold  as  she 
broughte  at  the  tyme  of  oure  mariage  together,  nowe  beinge  at  Nedhrn.  I  am  bounde  to  leave 
her  one  hundred  pounde.  I  bequeath  to  William  Pretyman  my  sonne  all  my  Mannor  of  Boyes 
and  all  my  mesuages  (&c.)  in  Bacton,  Wetherden,  Cotton,  Mendelyshm,  Gyslinghfh,  Wikehm 
Skeith,  fenighm  and  Wyuerston  in  the  Countie  of  Suff.  I  geue  (him)  my  Lease  of  a  close 
called  Melfeelde  liinge  in  Cotton  and  Wyckhm  aforesaide.  To  John  Pretyman  my  sonne  my 


1  Granted,  1476,  to  William  Pratyman  and  liis  son  John.  Vide  Cotton  Manor  Rolls. 


288 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


mesuages,  landes  and  tenementes  in  Hethilde,  Braken  Ashe,  Carelton  and  Snyterton  within  the 
Countie  of  Norff. ;  my  sonne  William  to  release  his  title  or  clayme  in  all  those  Norfolk  landes, 
and  my  son  John  to  surrender  his  right  to  my  Suffolk  landes.  Somes  of  money  I  owe  to  John 
Leman  for  the  purchase  of  those  landes  in  Hethilde ;  all  my  landes  whersoeuer  to  be  charged 

vntill  suche  tyme  as  Hethilde  be  fully  paide  (for)  I  geue  to  John  my  sonne  all  Implementes 

at  Nedhm  which  were  none  of  Margarett  my  wife’s  before  or  manage.  To  Elynor  Bugge  my 
daughter  foure  mckes  (yearly)  oute  of  my  landes  in  Cotton  duringe  the  tyme  of  her 

naturall  life.  To  euery  of  (her)  children  at  the  age  of  xxi  yeres,  twentie  shillinges.  To 
euery  childe  of  John  Bugge’s  of  Barkine  whiche  he  had  by  Katherine  my  daughter,  twentie 

shillinges  To  Jhone  Garrehm  my  daughter  xxs  and  to  euery  of  her  childeren  xx8.  To  Bridgett 
Goche  my  dawghter  xx8  and  to  euery  of  hir  childeren  at  the  age  of  xxi  yeres.  To  Alice  Gaye 
my  dawghter  xx8.  To  the  towne  of  Bacton  twoo  mylche  kyne  which  I  will  my  executors  shall 

let ;  and  the  ferme  of  the  saide  kine  shall  remayne  to  thuse  of  the  pore  folkes  of  Bacton 

for  euer.  Executors  shall  distribute  to  the  pore  folkes  of  Bacton,  Cotton  and  Nedhm  twentie 
marckes  to  praie  for  me  and  my  frendes,  within  one  monethe  after  my  decease.  The  rest  of 

my  goodes  shalbe  equally  deuided  betwixte  my  executors  whome  I  ordaine  William  and  John 
Pretyman  my  sonnes.  I  geue  to  John  my  sonne  all  such  stuffe  and  Trashe  as  lyethe  at 

Hethild  which  I  lately  bought  of  John  Leman. 

Probatum  apud  London  secundo  Junij  1563  Juramento  procuratoris  executo^. 

P.CC.  23  Chayre. 

There  is  a  pedigree  of  the  Bugge  family  of  Needham  and  Barking  in  the  Suffolk 
Visitation  of  1664;  and  one  of  the  Bugges  of  Creeting  and  Brandeston  in  the  Candler  MSS. 
Harl.  MS.  6071,  384,  and  Tanner  MS.  180,  32. 


Mill  of  dljomas  |tetmnan,  1566. 

The  first  day  of  August  1566,  I  Thomas  Pratyman  of  olde  Newton  in  the  Countie  of 
Suff.  yeman  doo  make  this  my  last  will.  I  bequethe  to  Agnes  my  wief  all  that  my  Mannor 
called  olde  Newtonne,  with  all  my  messuages,  landes  and  tenementes  lying  in  Olde  Newtonne 
afforsaide,  vntill  suche  tyme  as  my  sonne  Thomas  shall  coom  and  accomplisshe  the  age  of  xxi 
yeres.  And  then  my  sayde  sonne  shall  gnter  all  the  [(misses,  except  one  tenement  whiche 
Thomas  Wynke  dwelleth  in  with  a  leaven  acres  of  lande  adyoyning,  which  I  give  vnto  Agnes 
my  wief  during  her  naturall  life.  To  Elizabeth  Pratyman  my  daughter  a  hundred  poundes  at 
the  age  of  eightene  yeres.  If  my  wief  be  now  withe  childe  I  bequeath  vnto  it  my  Lease  by 
Indenture  called  Cotton  hall  in  the  Countie  of  Sufff.  If  not  she  shall  liaue  Cotton  hall  vntill 
Thomas  my  sonne  shall  coom  to  the  age  of  xxi  yeres.  And  if  all  my  children  of  my  boddie 
dye  witheowte  issue  I  give  all  my  saide  Mannor,  landes,  tenementes  and  leases  vnto  William 
Pratyman  of  Backtonne  the  elder  and  his  heires  for  ever.  I  will  that  Thomas  my  sonne  when 
he  haue  entered  his  landes  shall  paye  vnto  Agnes  my  wief  ffortie  mat  Ices  yerely.  I  will  that 
my  wief  fynde  and  bring  vpp  my  children  honestlie  and  fynde  my  sonne  Thomas  to  lerning 
at  the  Grammer  scoles  vntill  he  coom  to  the  age  of  twentie  yeres.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  1 
give  them  to  Agnes  my  wief  whom  I  make  my  soil  Executric.  I  make  John  Bannyng,  my 
ffather  in  lawe,  my  Supervisour.  Probatum  septio  die  Decembris  1566  Juramento  procuratoris 
diet  Agnetis  relicte.  P.C.C.  32  Crymes. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


289 


Inquisition  on  tljo  teatlj  of  (lljontas  fratnman,  1567. 

Taken  26th  May  9th  Elizabeth.  He  was  seised  of  the  Manor  of  Old  Newton  in  Suffolk, 
held  of  Robert  de  Staleham  for  military  service ;  also  of  a  messuage  in  Newton,  which  he  held 
of  Sir  John  Sulyard,  as  of  his  Manor  of  Haughley ;  also  of  seven  acres  and  tenement  called 
Netherhall,  parcel  of  the  Manor  of  Old  Newton,  held  of  the  Queen,  as  of  the  Honour  of  Dover 
Castle.  Thomas  Pratyman  died  so  seised  on  the  8th  of  August  last  past ;  and  Thomas  Pratyman 
his  son  and  next  heir  was  then  of  the  age  of  two  years. 

Palmer’s  Calendars,  P.R.O.,  vol.  100,  fo.  322b. 


Inquisition  on  tln>  toatl)  of  foljtt  ftotgman,  1587. 

Taken  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds  2d  June,  in  the  29th  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  after  the 
death  of  John  Pretyman  of  Bacton  in  co.  Suffolk.  It  was  deposed  that  the  deceased  was 
seised  of  a  messuage  called  Pretyman’s,  a  barn,  a  garden,  twenty  acres  of  arrable  land,  ten 

acres  of  meadow  and  sixty  acres  of  pasture  held  of  the  Queen  in  capite  in  Bacton  and 
Cotton.  By  indenture  dated  the  10th  of  February  in  the  22d  year  of  the  said  Queen,  in 
consideration  of  a  marriage  between  the  said  John  Pretyman,  and  Joan  Holme,  the  sole 
daughter  and  heir  of  Robert  Holme  of  Wyverston  deceased,  he  enfoeffed  said  premisses  to  the 
use  of  himself  and  the  said  Joan  for  the  term  of  their  lives.  The  said  John  Pretyman  was 
also  seised  of  closes  in  Wyverston,  called  Okes  and  Gallo w  close,  which  by  writing,  dated 

8th  June  28th  Elizth,  he  settled  in  the  same  manner.  He  also  had  a  messuage  called 

Talbutts,  with  forty  acres  of  pasture,  ten  of  arrable  land  and  ten  of  meadow  in  Bacton  and 
Wyverston.-  By  his  last  will,  dated  15  April,  29  Elizabeth  he  devised  the  profits  of  Talbotts 
to  the  said  Joan  his  wife,  and  lands  which  he  had  late  purchased  of  William  Pretyman  his 
brother,  whom  he  made  executor  as  Bailiff  of  Richard  Pretyman,  testators  son  and  heir.  Said 
John  Pretyman  died  on  the  3d  of  May  in  the  29th  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  and  Richard 

Pretyman  his  son  and  heir  was  of  the  age  of  six  years  five  months  and  eighteen  days. 


Sitill  df  MiUiant  IJretpman,  1594. 

This  will  is  recited  in  a  mutilated  parchment  which  forms  part  of  the  Chancery  Proceedings 
temp.  Queen  Elizabeth,  P.P.  3,  61.  It  is  headed,  “  The  further  answer  of  John  Pretyman, 
defendant  to  the  Bill  of  Complaint  of  Katheryne  Pretyman,  Complaynant.” 

“The  Bill  of  Complaynt  sayeth  that  William  Pretyman,  father  unto  this  Defendant,  made 

his  will  13th  Septr  36th  Elizabeth,  as  follows : — ‘  In  the  name  of  God,  Amen . ettyman 

th’elder  of  Backton  in  the  countie  of  Suff.  gent,  and  of  the  diocese  of  Norwich,  make  this  .  .  .  . 

I  give  to  Robert  Drury  Esqr  my  Manor  of  Backton,  together  with  the  reversions  conveyed  to 
Dorothye  the  wife  of  John  Prettyman  my  sonne,  for  her  joincture,  lyinge  in  Thorneham  Magna, 
Gyslingham,  Cotton  and  Wickham,  for  one  year  after  my  decease,  and  then  to  the  use  of  the 

said  John  Prettyman,  his  heirs  and  assigns,  for  ever.  To  Kathren  my  wife  .  .  .  .  now 

2  N 


290 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


occupied  by  John  Nellson,  named  Christye  feildes  in  Cotton;  also  a  close  called  the  Park  in 
Cotton  occupied  by  Tymothye  Cunnolde ;  also  lands  occupied  by  ...  Tyler  in  Newton  ; 
also  the  tenement  called  ffyshe  ponde,  occupied  by  John  Bloome  of  Haughley  ;  to  the  said 
Kathren  for  the  terme  of  her  life.  My  sonne  John  Prettyman  to  allow  her  to  have  a  messuage 
called  Talbottes,  late  John  Clyntches  late  of  Ypswych,  and  by  him  set  over  to  William  Prettyman 
the  yonger  of  Backton,  for  seven  yeares  from  next  Michaelmas,  if  the  said  Katheryn  shall  so 
long  live ;  she  paying  my  sonne  xx1  yearlie.  I  also  give  to  the  said  Kathren  cows,  horses  (Ac. 
specified) ;  also  my  lands  called  Mellfeilde  in  Cotton  and  W yckham,  for  thirtye  yeres,  if  she  shall 
so  long  live.  I  bequeath  to  the  poor  of  Backton  x1 ;  of  Haughley  v1 ;  of  Cotton  v1 ;  each  at  the 
rate  of  xx8  a  year.  To  every  one  of  my  daughters  v1 ;  to  every  one  of  my  daughter’s  children 
v1  at  their  several  ages  of  xxi  yeres,  or  daies  of  marriage,  which  first  shall  happen  ;  to  every  one 
of  my  sisters  xx3 ;  to  my  sonne  Wylleston  v1.  The  residue  of  my  goods  Ac.  unbequeathed  I 
give  to  my  said  sonne  John  Prettyman,  whom  I  make  my  sole  executor.’” 


Inquisition  on  tl)£  Death  of  Sljomas  ^retnman,  1601. 

Taken  at  Stowmarkett  in  Suffolk  9th  April,  in  the  43d  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth  It  was 
found  that  said  Thomas  Pretyman,  yeoman,  had  held  a  close  called  Ashemans,  containing  sixty 
acres  in  Gislingham  ;  also  two  messuages,  two  cotages,  four  gardens,  sixty  acres  of  land,  twenty 
acres  of  meadow,  one  hundred  and  twenty  acres  of  pasture  and  four  acres  of  wood  in  Bacton, 
Cotton  and  Newton.  By  charter,  dated  8th  Septr,  42  Elizabeth,  he  enfeoffed  John  Pretyman  of 
Heasley,  gent.,  and  Thomas  Harwell  of  Felsham,  gent,  (lands  &  tenements  already  conveyed  to 
Fyrmin  Denny,  Esq.,  A  John  Pretyman,  gent.,  being  excepted)  in  Ashemans  in  Gislingham  to 
his  own  use  for  life,  and  then  to  his  heir  of  his  body  begotten ;  and,  failing  such  heir,  to  the 
use  of  Robert  Pretyman  his  second  son  &  heirs  of  his  body,  and  failing  these  to  John 

Pretyman  his  third  son  A  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and  for  lack  of  such,  to  his  own 

use  A  that  of  his  right  heirs  for  ever.  So  seized  said  Thomas  Pretyman  died  on  the  second 
day  of  January  last  past,  and  Thomas  Pretyman  his  son  and  heir  was  aged  thirty  years  and 
upwards  at  the  time  of  his  decease.  Ashmans  was  held  of  the  Manor  of  Goldingams,  also  in 

Suffolk.  The  two  messuages,  Ac.,  in  Bacton,  Cotton  A  Newton  he  held  of  the  Queen  in  capite. 

Inq.  p.m.,  43  Eliz.,  C.  265,  62. 


Inquisition  on  t\)t  Dratl)  of  |ol)n  fireman,  1607. 

Taken  at  Woodbridge,  2d  Septr,  5  Jas,  after  the  death  of  John  Pretyman  late  of 
Thorndon  in  Suffolk,  gent.  Deceased  was  seized  of  a  capital  messuage  in  Thorndon  called 
Shortes ;  of  another  messuage  there  called  Hardyes ;  of  a  close  called  Mullcrofte  in  Thorndon ; 
of  another  close  called  Puttoclcs,  containing  thirty  acres ;  of  pieces  of  land  in  Moorefylde  in 
Thorndon,  and  of  a  close  called  Puttockes  Lane  lying  near  the  Churche  Parthe  in  Thorndon. 
So  seized  he  died  on  the  12th  of  May  in  the  5th  year  of  King  James,  and  John  Pretyman 
his  son  and  heir  was  then  of  the  age  of  eighteen  years  and  fourteen  days.  Shortes  was  held 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


291 


of  John  Pretyman  senior,  father  of  the  deceased,  as  of  his  Manor  of  Thorndon ;  the  messuage 
called  Hardies  was  held  of  ...  .  Castleton,  clerk,  as  of  his  Rectory  of  Thorndon,  for  the 

annual  service  of  two  cocks  and  two  hens.  The  second  piece  of  land  was  held  of  the  King, 
as  of  his  hundred  of  Thredling.  A  third  piece  of  land  was  held  of  ...  .  Smyth,  Esqr., 
as  of  his  Manor  of  Lampettes  in  Thorndon.  Mullcroft  was  held  of  John  Pretyman,  father  of 
the  deceased.  A  piece  of  land  containing  twelve  acres  was  held  of  Robert  Morse,  gent.,  as  of 
his  Manor  of  Hestley  hall  in  Thorndon.  The  close  called  Puttocks  was  held  of  the  King,  as 
of  his  Honour  of  Eye,  for  military  service. 

Inq.  p.m.,  P.R.M.,  C  299,  133. 


Inquisition  on  iln>  tiratli  of  faijit  fi rripnran,  1611. 

By  an  Inquisition  taken  at  Eye  in  co.  Suffolk,  1st  Octr,  9th  Ja8  I,  on  the  death  of  John 
Pretyman,  gent.,  it  was  found  that  he  had  been  seized  of  one  free  tenement  for  the  term  of 
his  life,  with  reversion  to  a  certain  John  Pretyman,  jun.,  gent.,  his  grandson  and  his  heirs ; 
and  of  the  Manor  of  Thorndon  in  co.  Suffolk ;  and  of  two  closes  called  Great  Perryer  and 
Little  Perryer  in  Thorndon  and  Wetheringset.  So  seized  the  said  John  Pretyman  died  on  the 
10th  of  March  in  the  8th  year  of  the  present  King,  and  John  Pretyman  is  his  grandson  and 
next  heir.  The  Manor  and  other  premises  descend  to  the  said  John  Pretyman,  jun.,  as  son 
and  heir  of  John  Pretyman,  gent.,  deceased,  the  son  and  heir  of  John  Pretyman  named  in  the 
brief.  John  Pretyman,  jun.,  at  the  time  of  his  grandfather’s  death  was  fully  aged  twenty  one 
years  and  three  months.  Said  Manor  and  inclosures  were  held  of  the  King  in  capite. 

Inq9  p.  Mortem,  C.  339,  137. 


Inquisition  on  tin  teatl)  of  ® hernias  flretmnan,  1617. 

Inquisition  taken  at  Hoxne  in  co.  Suffolk  on  the  6th  of  October  in  the  15th  year  of 
King  James  after  the  death  of  Thomas  Pretyman,  the  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Pretyman 
deceased.  The  jurors  deposed  that  Thomas  Pretyman  the  father  of  the  said  Thomas  Pretyman 
the  son,  and  Dorcas  the  wife  of  the  said  father,  were  seized  (Dorcas  for  the  term  of  her  life) 
of  a  mesuage  called  Messinges,  held  of  Sir  John  Sulyard,  K1,  as  of  his  Manor  of  Haughley, 
and  of  lands  in  Old  Newton  late  parcel  of  the  Manor  of  Netherhall  in  Old  Newton,  held  of 
the  King  as  of  his  Duchy  of  Lancaster.  Thomas  Pretyman  the  father  died  on  the  4th  of 
August  in  the  13th  year  of  King  James,  and  Dorcas  survived  him.  Thomas  Pretyman  the  son 
and  heir  of  Thomas  the  father,  was  then  aged  thirteen  years  nine  months  and  two  weeks. 

Dorcas,  late  wife  of  Thomas  Pretyman  the  father,  died  on  the  20th  of  February  in  the  14th 

year  of  King  James.  Thomas  Pretyman,  the  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Pretyman  the  father, 

died  on  the  10th  of  June  in  the  15th  year  of  King  James,  and  Robert  Pretyman,  his  brother 

and  next  heir,  at  the  time  of  his  brother’s  decease,  was  of  the  age  of  fourteen  years. 

Inq.  p.m.,  P.R.O.,  C.  364,  57. 

2  N2 


292 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Iitqmsition  on  tlje  teatlj  of  William  Prtfgman,  1617. 

Suffolk.  By  an  Inquisition  taken  at  Ipswich  on  the  22d  day  of  January  in  the  15th  year 
of  King  James  it  was  found  that  William  Pretyman,  gentleman,  had  died  seised  of  a  messuage 
called  Bouncers  in  Backton,  and  of  a  close  and  other  lands  in  Cotton  and  Fynyngham,  parcell 
of  the  Manor  of  Cotton  Bresworth,  and  of  the  Manor  and  advowson  of  Cotton  Bresworth.  The 
said  William,  so  seized,  on  the  9th  of  August  in  the  first  year  of  King  James,  and  in  consideration 
of  a  marriage  previously  solemnized  between  Peter  Pretyman,  his  son  and  heir  apparent  and 
Anne  Harwell,  daughter  of  Thomas  Harwell,  gent.,  and  for  the  jointure  of  the  said  Anne,  by 
a  certain  indenture  enfoeffed  all  the  above  premises,  in  trust  for  the  use  of  the  said  William 
Pretyman  and  Peter  Pretyman  during  their  respective  lives.  If  it  happened  to  Peter  Pretyman 
to  die  in  his  father’s  life  time,  the  premisses  to  remain  to  the  use  of  the  said  Anne,  and  after  her 
death  to  pass  to  William  Pretyman  again  :  after  the  deaths  of  both  William  and  Anne,  to  pass  to 
the  right  heir  of  the  said  Peter.  Said  William  Pretyman  before  his  death  was  seized  of  another 
messuage  in  Backton  with  twenty  acres  of  land,  and  of  another  called  Dixies  in  Backton  with 
three  acres  of  land.  These  by  his  Indenture  dated  18th  May,  5th  James,  he  enfoeffed  to  Thomas 
Smyth  and  Edward  Copuldyke,  gent.,  for  the  use  of  himself  for  life,  and  after  his  decease  to 
the  use  of  Margaret,  his  wife,  for  her  life,  and  then  to  the  use  of  the  said  Peter  Pretyman 
and  his  heirs.  William  Pretyman  died  on  the  8th  of  July  in  the  15th  year  of  King  James, 
and  Peter  Pretyman  his  son  and  next  heir  was  then  of  the  age  of  forty  years  and  upwards. 
Margaret,  late  his  wife,  and  Anne,  the  wife  of  the  said  Peter  Pretyman,  are  yet  living.  The 
messuage  called  Bouncers  was  held  of  Sir  John  Pretyman,  Knt.,  as  of  his  Manor  of  Backton. 
The  Manor  and  advowson  of  Cotton  Bresworth  were  held  of  the  King  in  capite.  The  other 
messuages  were  held  as  of  the  Manor  of  Backton. 

Inq.  p.m.,  P.R.O.,  C.  364,  83. 


Htujtristttou  on  tl) t  Dratl)  of  Sljomas  Jtarnnatt,  1621. 

Suffolk.  At  an  Inquisition  taken  at  Eye,  20th  Dec.  19th  Ja8  I,  on  the  death  of  Thomas 
Pretyman,  gent.,  it  was  deposed  that  long  before  his  decease,  Thomas  Pretyman  senior,  gent., 
his  father,  had  been  seized  of  a  messuage  in  Bacton,  with  twenty  four  acres  of  land  and  four 
acres  of  wood  ;  also  of  a  close  called  Reeves,  with  ten  acres,  in  Bacton,  two  acres  called 
Russons  in  Newton,  a  capital  messuage  with  two  cottages  and  ten  acres  in  Bacton,  and  one 
hundred  and  twenty  acres  in  Cotton :  So  seized,  Septr  1st  42nd  Elizabeth,  said  Thomas  Prety¬ 
man,  the  elder,  in  consideration  of  a  marriage  between  Thomas  Pretyman  in  the  brief  named 
and  Hellen  Ashfield,  widow,  and  for  her  jointure,  enfeoffed  a  certain  Firmyn  Denny,  Esqr,  and 
John  Pretyman,  gent.,  of  said  messuages  and  lands,  to  the  use  of  said  Thomas  and  Hellen,  and 
the  heirs  of  their  bodies,  with  remainder,  failing  these,  to  the  other  sons  of  said  Thomas 
Pretyman  the  elder.  On  the  3d  of  September  following  Thomas  Pretyman  the  elder  granted  to 
Thomas  Harwell  and  John  Pretyman,  gent.,  during  the  life  of  Rachel  then  his  wife,  an 
annuity  of  lih  xiii8  iiijd  in  trust  for  her  use  after  his  decease.  On  the  8th  of  September  in 
the  same  year,  he  again  enfeoffed  Thomas  Harwell  and  John  Pretyman,  and  their  heirs,  in 
lands  for  his  own  use  during  his  life,  with  remainder  to  Thomas  Pretyman  named  in  the  brief. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


293 


and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  and,  in  default  of  these,  to  the  use  of  the  other  sons  of  him,  the 
said  Thomas  Pretyman,  Senior,  and  to  his  right  heirs  for  ever.  Afterwards  on  the  2d  of 
January  in  the  43rd  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  Thomas  Pretyman,  Senior,  the  father  died. 

Thomas  Pretyman  in  the  brief  named  was  seized  of  lands  and  pasture  called  Ashmans, 
containing  sixty  acres,  in  Gislingham ;  and  of  a  messuage  called  Le  Kay  in  Great  Yarmouth. 
On  the  10th  of  January  in  the  5th  year  of  King  James,  for  the  augmentation  of  the  jointures 
of  Helen  his  wife,  he  enfeoffed  them  to  William  Gooche,  gent.,  and  Humfrey  Howlett  to  her 
use.  Afterwards,  on  the  6th  of  September  in  the  19th  year  of  the  present  King  he  died. 
Hellen,  his  widow,  and  Rachell,  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Pretyman,  Senior,  are  still  living. 
Henry  Pratyman,  gentleman,  is  son  and  heir,  and  was,  at  the  time  of  the  death  of  Thomas 
Pretyman  in  the  brief  named,  his  father,  of  the  age  of  seventeen  years  and  seven  months. 
The  messuage,  with  twenty  four  acres  of  land  and  four  acres  of  wood,  is  held  of  Sir  John 
Pretyman,  K4,  as  of  his  Manor  of  Bacton.  Reeves  is  held  of  Peter  Pretyman,  gent.,  as  of  his 
Manor  of  Cotton  Bresworth.  The  capital  messuage  in  Bacton  is  held  of  the  King  in  capite 
for  military  service.  Ashmans  is  held  of  the  Manor  of  Gouldingham. 

Inquisitions  p.m.,  C.  385,  71. 


(Mill  of  Pretgman,  1656. 

The  seauenth  day  of  August  1636,  I  Peter  Prettiman  of  Barton  Bendysh  in  the  County 
of  Norfolk,  gentleman,  doe  make  this  my  last  will.  I  giue  to  the  poore  of  Barton  Bendishe  fiue 

poundes ;  to  the  poore  of  Bacton  in  Suff.  fiue  poundes ;  to  the  poore  of  Cotton  in  Suff.  fiue 

poundes.  Ynto  my  Honorable  freind  Sr  John  Hare  and  to  his  Honorable  Ladie,  (to  each) 
twentie  poundes,  as  a  small  token  &  remembrance  of  my  love.  Ynto  my  cossen  Augustin 
Messenger  and  my  niece  his  wife  ffortie  poundes.  Vnto  Margarett  Prettyman,  daughter  of 
Charles  Prettyman  deceased,  forty  poundes.  I  stand  bound  to  leaue  vnto  Elizabeth  my  nowe 
wife  landes  or  tenementes  within  the  Counties  of  Suff.  or  Norfolk  of  the  cleei'e  yearely  value 

of  ffortie  poundes  for  life.  And  to  the  intent  (she)  shall  not  claim  any  dower  out  of  my 

Mannors  or  landes,  I  do  giue  (her)  duringe  her  life  the  messuage  wherein  John  Spaldinge  now 
dwelleth,  with  all  landes  belonginge,  scituate  in  Backton  aforesaid.  I  giue  (her)  one  other 
tenement  with  the  homestalles  and  crofte  adioyninge  in  Backton,  nowe  in  the  occupacon  of 
Lawrence  Lord,  (and)  twenty  poundes  in  money  and  all  my  plate ;  alsoe  such  goodes  as  were 
her’s  before  our  entermarriage.  The  Revercon  of  said  premisses  shall  descend  vnto  my  sonne 
George  Prettyman  and  his  heires.  And  the  inheritance  of  my  Mannor  of  Cotton  hall,  and  of 
all  other  my  Mannors,  lands  and  tenements  in  Suffolk,  shall  likewise  descend  to  him.  I  alsoe 
giue  vnto  (him)  twoe  thousand  poundes  in  money.  My  said  sonne  George  shall  confirme  my 
guifte  and  bequest  formerly  giuen  vnto  my  wife.  I  ordaine  my  sonne  Tristram  Dymond  and 
my  lovinge  brother  Richard  Prettyman  my  executors  of  this  my  last  will.  A  Codicill  made 
the  11th  of  August  1636  and  annexed  vnto  (his)  will.  My  mynde  is  that  George  Pretyman 
my  sonne  shall  haue  all  my  leases  and  stock  in  Marshland,  and  also  my  stock  in  the  Loyes 
in  Fincham  in  the  Countie  of  Norfolke. 

Probatum  nono  die  Februarij  1636.  Juramento  Tristram  Dymond  et  Richi  Pretiman 
Executorum.  P.C.C.  27  Goare. 


294 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Inquisition  on  tl jc  Dimtlj  of  $ztzv  ^ntmnnn,  1637. 

By  an  Inquisition  taken  at  Eye  in  Co.  Suffolk,  10th  Nov.  12th  Chas.  I,  on  the  death 
of  Peter  Pretyman,  gentleman,  it  was  found  that  he  had  been  seized  of  the  Manor  and 
advowson  of  Cotton  Bresworth  and  of  a  close  and  pightell  containing  forty  four  acres  in  Cotton 
and  Fyningham,  parcell  of  the  said  manor ;  also  of  a  messuage  called  Bouncers  and  eighteen 
acres  in  Bacton;  of  another  messuage  in  Bacton  and  twenty  acres  in  the  occupation  of  John 
Spalding ;  of  another  messuage  called  Dixes  in  Bacton ;  and  of  a  close  called  Riverclose  in 
Burgate  and  Melles  in  the  said  county.  Afterwards,  namely  on  the  24th  of  August  last  past, 
Peter  Pretyman  died  at  Cotton,  and  George  Pretyman,  gent.,  his  son  and  next  heir,  was  aged 
twenty  and  one  years.  Bouncers,  the  messuage  with  twenty  acres  of  land,  and  Dixies,  were 
held  of  Henry  Pretyman,  gent.,  as  of  his  manor  of  Bacton  ;  The  close  called  River  close  in 
Bargate  and  Melles  was  held  of  Sir  Edmund  Bacon,  Bart.,  as  of  his  Manor  of  Burgate  ;  and 
the  Manor  of  Cotton  Bresworth  was  held  of  the  King  in  capite.  Inq.  p.m.,  C.  481,  167. 


5StiU  of  Joljit  f)n>tgman,  1638. 

The  third  day  of  December,  1638,  I  Sir  John  Prettyman  of  Driffild  in  the  County  of 
Glouc.,  Kn4.,  being  in  perfect  mind  and  memory  and  of  reasonable  strength  of  body,  as  I  am 
woont  to  be  at  this  time  of  the  year,  do  make  this  my  last  Will  and  Testament.  I  bequeath 
my  soul  to  God,  trusting  to  be  saved  by  the  merits  of  his  son  Jesus  Christ.  I  give  to  my 
daughter  Dorothie  Prettyman  £1,200.  I  appoint  the  money  due  to  the  children  of  John  Steevens, 
Esqr.,  which  I  have  set  out  at  interest  for  them,  to  be  justly  paid.  I  give  to  my  grandchild 

Marie  Browne  £2004  And  by  reason  she  will  be  under  age,  as  I  presume,  the  same  to  be  paid 

• 

unto  her  father,  and  by  him  to  be  set  out  for  her  benefit,  and  at  her  day  of  marriage  or  age 
of  one  and  twenty  to  be  paid  with  the  increase  thereof  unto  her.  I  give  to  my  grandchild  .Susan 
Hall  £100,  to  be  paid  her  at  her  day  of  marriage  or  age  of  twenty  one,  which  shall  first 

happen.  I  do  give  my  daughter  Mary  ten  pounds  per  ann  during  her  life,  over  and  besides 

that)  which  I  have  formerly  settled  upon  her.  To  every  of  my  daughters  that  are  married  £10 
apiece ;  and  to  every  of  my  grandchildren  five  pounds  apiece.  To  Mr.  Richard  Dowdeswell  £10 
to  buy  him  a  piece  of  plate.  I  give  all  my  personal  estate,  and  all  other  things  within  my 
power  to  devise,  to  my  son  William  Prettiman  to  enable  him  to  make  payment  of  my  debts 
and  legacies ;  and  after  that  done  and  performed  he  to  have  the  residue.  And  I  make  him 
sole  executor  of  this  will.  I  give  to  my  son  in  law  Browne  £10  to  buy  him  a  piece  of  plate. 
Executors  to  bestow  Rings  upon  every  one  of  my  last  wife’s  brothers  and  sisters,  and  their 
husbands  and  wifs,  as  remembrances  of  my  true  love  unto  them,  and  thirty  shillings  apiece  to 
be  in  every  ring.  I  desire  my  funeral  may  be  performed  in  a  decent  manner,  at  the  discretion 

of  my  Executors  and  Overseers.  To  my  son  John  Prettyman  and  his  wife  £10  apiece,  as 

tokens  of  my  true  love ;  and  I  charge  them  to  be  loving  and  kind  to  my  Executor  and  the 
rest  of  my  children.  I  make  my  son  in  law  Browne  and  the  said  Richard  Dowdeswell 
Overseers  of  this  will,  and  intreat  them  to  be  aiding  and  assisting  to  my  Executor,  whom  I 
charge  to  be  ruled  and  advised  by  them  in  all  things  concerning  this  will.  I  have  hereunto 


1  Who  became  the  wife  of  John  Evelyn,  the  Diarist. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


295 


put  my  hand  and  seal  the  day  and  year  above  written  and  have  subscribed  my  name  to  every 
leaf  thereof,  consisting  of  two  sheets  of  paper  besides  this  last  leaf.  John  Pretyman.  In  the 
presence  of  Richard  Dowdeswell,  John  Guy,  Nicholas  Philpot,  Will  Peeters,  John  Morris. 

Probatum  fuit  testamentum  apud  London,  vicesimo  quinto  die  Februarij  1638  juramento 
William  Pretyman,  Armiger,  filii  diet  defunct. 

P.C.C.  38  Harvey. 


Si till  of  |  obit  $  ragman,  1655. 

John  Prittyman  of  Wyverston  in  the  County  of  Suff.,  gentleman,  the  sixteene  day  of 
May  1655.  My  land  in  Backton  called  Rowelles  conteyneing  ffortye  eight  acres  to  be  sold  by 
mine  Executrix,  and  the  monyes  soe  raysed  to  be  for  the  payment  of  my  debts  and  legacies. 
To  Mary,  my  beloved  wife,  all  my  moveables  and  alsoe  ffoure  score  pounds.  My  personall 
estate  wthout  doores  to  be  sold,  and  together  with  my  dues  and  moneyes  vpon  bills  and  bonds  to 
be  for  the  payment  of  debts  and  legacies.  My  wife  to  choose,  before  the  sale,  two  of  my  best 
horses  and  two  cowes  My  dearely  beloved  mother  stands  bound  by  Indenture  to  pay  vnto  mee 
out  of  her  lands  at  Backton  fourteene  pounds  p  annum.  My  will  is  that  after  my  decease  the 
said  Margarett  my  mother  to  be  acquitted  of  the  same  for  ever.  Vnto  John  Payne,  sonne  to 
Miles  Payne  and  my  godchild,  tfiue  poundes.  Vnto  Isacc  Wragge  of  Bury,  clarke,  fforty  pounds. 
There  is  due  vnto  mee  vpon  bond  from  Mr  Francis  Browne,  my  ffather  in  law,  one  hundred 
and  fifty  pounds.  My  will  is  that  the  ffines  and  the  charges  in  taking  vp  all  the  coppyhould 
lands  pertaining  to  my  wife’s  Joyntui’e  shall  be  paid  out  of  the  said  summe,  and  Francis 
Browne  be  accountable  onely  for  the  remainder.  If  there  shall  remraine  moneys  after  payment 
of  my  debts,  such  summes  shall  be  deliuered  to  the  coheires  of  mine  other  land.  That  is  to 
say  to  John  Prittiman,  sonne  to  Mr  Henry  Prittiman,  Margarett  Doue,  formerly  wife  to  Mr 
Robert  Doue,  and  Elizabeth  Browne,  now  wife  to  Mr  William  Browne,  equally.  I  make  Mary 
my  dearely  beloved  wife  Sole  Executrix.  Proved  at  London  16th  June  1655  by  the  oath  of 
Mary  Prittiman  the  Relict  and  Executrix.  P.C.C.  273  and  287  Aylett. 


Still  of  Hubert  flrrtpntaii,  1659. 

Robert  Pretyman  of  Old  Newton  in  co.  Suffolk,  Gent  ,  by  will  dated  20th  April  1659, 
disposed  of  his  estate  as  follows : — 

To  John  Pretyman,  Esq.,  son  of  Sir  Jn°  Prettyman,  sometime  of  Bacton  in  co.  Suffolk, 
Knight,  deceased,  £100. 

To  Richard  Pretyman  the  elder,  of  Griston  in  co.  Norfolk  £20,  and  to  his  wife  £10.  To 
William  Pretyman,  son  of  said  Richard ;  Richard  Pretyman,  son  of  said  Richard ;  to  every  of 
the  daughters  of  said  Richard  Pretyman  the  elder. 

To  Edmund,  son  of  Elizabeth  Bishop ;  George  Harrison  of  Debenham,  testator’s  kinsman  ; 
to  the  wife  of  said  George  Harrison ;  to  Phillip  and  John  Stubbs  of  Essex,  testator’s  kinsmen  > 
to  Susan  Bassum  of  Essex,  his  kinswoman,  and  her  three  daughters ;  and  to  Stephen  Clarke  of 
Newton,  his  tenant. 


296 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


His  messuage  or  tenement  in  Newton,  with  all  lands,  Ac.,  in  occupation  of  the  said  Stephen 
■Clarke,  and  his  Manor  of  Old  Newton,  with  the  lands,  Ac.,  belonging,  to  George  Prettyman  of 
Bacton,  gent.,  his  cousin,  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever. 

Other  lands  &  tenements  in  Newton  or  Dagworth,  and  all  other  lands,  to  said  George 
Pretyman  and  his  heirs  for  ever,  subject  to  the  payment  of  legacies. 

To  the  poor  of  Newton,  Stowmarket,  Upland  and  Stowe,  Haughley  and  Bacton,  and  to 
Edmund  Hayward.  George  Prityman  of  Bacton  to  be  Executor.  Proved  at  London  16  July  1660. 

P.C.C.  141  Nabbs. 


Kill  of  |an t  freijimatt,  1738. 

Dated  11  June  1737,  with  Codicils  of  14th  &  15^  July  and  20th  October  1738.  She 

refers  to  Indenture  of  24th  March  1733  between  said  Jane  Pretyman,  Edward  Frere  of  Thwaite, 

Esqr  and  Thomas  Martin  of  Palgrave,  gent.  ;  and  mentions  her  late  husband,  George  Pretyman, 
Esqr,  her  eldest  son  Baron  Pretyman,  Esqr,  and  her  youngest  son  George  Pretyman,  gent. 

To  be  buried  near  the  side  of  my  dear  husband  in  Bacton  church.  To  my  good  friends 
Edward  Frere  and  Benjamin  Brundish  of  Wyverstone,  clerk,  in  trust,  all  my  Manors  and 
Lordships  of  Bacton,  Bresworth  Newhall,  Cotton  Bresworth  and  Old  Newton,  all  in  Suffolk, 
settled  by  my  late  husband  and  his  father,  Mr  George  Pretyman  deceased,  for  the  use  of  my 
said  son  Baron  Pretyman,  Esqr,  and  the  heirs  of  his  body :  and  in  default  of  such  heirs,  to 
George  Pretyman,  my  youngest  son,  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body  ;  and,  failing  these,  to  the 
right  heirs  of  my  late  husband,  George  Pretyman. 

And  whereas  my  late  father  in  law,  Mr  George  Pretyman,  did  by  his  last  will  give  to 
his  two  grandsons,  Peter  and  George  Pretyman,  the  sum  of  £200  apiece  at  their  ages  of  twenty 
one  years ;  these  sums,  if  not  so  paid,  to  come  out  of  the  estate. 

I  give  to  George  Pretyman,  my  youngest  son,  and  to  his  heirs  the  profits  and  rents  of 

other  lands ;  namely  messuage  or  farm  with  lands  in  Westhorpe,  Bacton,  Wyverstone  and 

Finningham,  messuage  or  farm  in  Wetherden  and  Haughley,  messuage  or  farm  in  Brockford  and 
Wetheringset,  messuage  or  tenement  with  lands,  Ac.,  in  Nettlestead,  messuage  in  Bradfield  St. 
Clere  and  that  wood  called  Raughwood  in  Bradfield,  all  in  the  county  of  Suffolk  ;  in  default 
of  issue  said  rents  to  pass  to  the  use  of  Baron  Pretyman,  my  eldest  son ;  and  if  he  die  with¬ 
out  issue,  my  aforesaid  legatees  Peter  Pretyman  and  George  Pretyman,  sons  of  my  late  brother 
in  law  Peter  Pretyman,  to  enter  into  these  estates. 

Executors,  after  my  decease,  to  sell  copyhold,  customary  and  leasehold  lands  and  tene¬ 
ments  in  East  and  West  Wretham,  Thompson,  Tottington,  Sturston,  Stanford  Tofts  and  Croxton 
in  Norfolk,  to  pay  the  just  debts  of  my  husband  and  myself. 

To  Baron  Pretyman,  household  goods,  furniture,  plate,  stock,  Ac.,  and  the  deer  in  the 
Park  at  Bacton.  To  George  Pretyman,  household  goods,  plate,  Ac.,  coach,  chariot,  horses,  Ac.,  at 
my  dwelling  house,  outhouse  and  yards  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds. 

To  my  kinsman  Mr  John  Hayes  of  London  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  and  to  my  god. 
daughter  Jane  Hayes.  Mrs  Elizabeth  Burrough  (who  now  lives  with  me),  my  friend,  I  nominate 
sole  executrix  of  this  will,  with  remainder  to  her  brother,  James  Burrough,  Esqre,  to  compleat 
the  executorship.  In  case  of  jointures  for  my  sons’  marriages,  my  trustees  shall  stand  seized  of 
property  set  aside  for  that  purpose.  Witnesses,  Robert  Barber,  Henry  Cocksedge,  Thomas  Martin. 

Proved  Arch.  Sudb.  1738. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


297 


Hiugljta'  jfortot*,  1539. 

Compiled  temp:  Henry  8th  (c.  1539),  Harl.  MS.  370. 

Haughley  Sorells.  Feoda  militum  pertinentia  dicto  manerio. 

Thomas  Pratiman  tenet  diversa  terras  et  tenementa  jacentes  in  Newton  nuper  Roberti 
Messing  quondam  Rogeri  Appyltwhate  pro  iiijta  parte  feodi  militis  ut  patet  anno  xvta  Regis 
Edwardi  iiijet  reddit  per  annum.  Fo.  35. 

Knights’  fees  belonging  to  the  Manor  of  Haughley  Sorell. 

Thomas  Pratiman  holds  divers  lands  and  tenemts  lying  in  Newton,  late  Robert  Messing’s 
formerly  Roger  Appultwhate’s,  for  the  fourth  part  of  a  Knight’s  fee,  as  appears  in  the  15th  year 
of  King  Edward  IY,  and  he  pays  [blank]. 


Cotton  Bresworth.  Feoda  militum  pertinentia  eidem  manerio. 

Willielmus  Pratiman  tenet  terras  et  tenementa  nuper  Johannis  Cooke  quondam  Johannis 
Olive  per  servicium  militare  et  vid  per  annum  ut  patet  anno  ixD0  Henrici  iiij  et  reddit  per 
annum  vid.  Fo.  36. 

Cotton  Bresworth.  Knights’  fees  belonging  to  the  same  Manor. 

William  Pratiman  holds  lands  and  tenements  late  John  Cooke’s  formerly  John  Olives  by 
military  service  and  6d  a  year,  as  appears  in  the  9th  year  of  Henry  IY  and  he  pays  yearly 
rent  6d. 


Predictus  Willielmus  Pratyman  tenet  vnum  messuagium  cum  viij  acris  terre  in  Bakton  et 
Feningham  quondam  Willelmi  Osbone  per  servicium  militare  et  ijs  ob.  per  annum — ii8  ob. 

Fo.  36  b. 

Aforesaid  William  Pratyman  holds  1  messuage  with  8  acres  of  land  in  Bakton  and 
Feningham  formerly  Wm  Osbone,  by  military  service  and  2s  0|d  yearly— 2s  0|-d. 


Dictus  Willelmus  Pratyman  tenet  unum  toftum  in  clausum  nuper  Johannis  Cooke  et 
quondam  Willelmi  Olyve  per  servicium  iiijd  et  de  Warda  Castri  Norwici  ob  quadr,  ut  patet 
anno  xvto  Edwardi  iii — iiijd.  Fo.  36  b. 

Said  William  Pratyman  holds  1  enclosed  toft  late  John  Cooke’s  and  formerly  Wm 
Olive’s  by  service  of  4d,  and  on  account  of  the  Ward  of  Norwich  Castle,  of  three  farthings,  as 
appears  in  the  15th  year  of  Edward  IV — 4d. 


Westhorpe  Feoda  militum  predicts  Mane?.  Robtus  Bake9  tenet  vnrh  messuagm  et  xvi  acr 
terr  apud  Oue9haghe  nup  Edmundi  Kneght  et  redd  de  Ward  ad  qfhlibet  termm — qj. 

Fo.  60  b. 

Johes  Pratiman  ten  un  mess  :  et  xvi.  ac :  terr  apud  Overhaugh,  nuper  Robert  Baker  et 
quondam  Edi :  Knight,  et  redd :  sec :  Ward  ad  quamlib  term — q3  [1  5d], 

2  O 


298 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ftljaiumi  fromMnqs,  garrison  *•  Ptetgman,  1598. 

The  29th  Nov1'  1598.  To  Thos.  Egerfcon,  Lord  Keeper.  George  Harrisou  the  younger  ik 
Margarett  his  wife  sole  daur.  and  heiress  of  John  Pretyman,  late  of  Bacton,  co.  Suff.,  decd, 
shew  that  one  Thomas  Pretyman,  grandfather  of  the  said  John,  was  seized  of  lands  and  tenem48 
in  Wickham  Skeith,  co.  Suff.,  and  of  lands  holden  of  the  manor  of  Cotton  Hemnall.  Said 
Thomas  declared  his  will  10th  July  1543,  and  gave  lands  to  Johan  his  wife.  After  her  decease 
these  lands  should  remain  to  the  sd  John  Pretyman.  He  also  surrendered  copyholds  and  shortly 
after  died  at  Bacton,  said  John  being  then  an  infant  aged  2  or  3  years.  About  2  years  after 
sd  Johan  died,  John  being  still  in  his  infancy,  aged  5  or  6.  After  this  Peter  Pretyman,  father 
of  sd  John,  entered  as  guardian  and  died  about  9  years  later,  John  being  still  in  his  minority. 
Peter  Pretyman  made  his  will  19th  July  1554.  He  gave  Katherine  his  wife  lands  in  Bacton, 
until  the  said  John  shd  be  22  ;  but  if  John  died  sans  heirs,  then  said  lands  to  remain  to 
William  Pretyman  the  younger  son  of  sd  Peter.  To  this  William  he  likewise  entayled  the  lands 
in  Cotton  after  the  decease  of  Katherine.  About  seven  years  afterwards  John  Pretyman  came 
of  age.  He  died  on  the  first  of  July,  35th  Elizabeth  1593. 

After  his  decease  George  Harrison,  one  of  the  heirs,  brought  an  action  of  trespass  at  the 
Suffolk  Assizes  against  William  Pretyman  for  entering  closes  devised  by  the  said  John. 

Answer  of  William  Pretyman,  24  January  1598.  Peter  Pretyman  did  make  said  will ; 
and  John  Pretyman,  who  was  father  to  Margaret  Harrison,  and  elder  brother  to  this  Defendant 
also  made  a  will,  dated  2d  Sept.  30th  Elizabeth,  devising  lands  to  Katherine  his  wife  for  life, 
with  remainder  to  this  Defendant,  who  was  to  pay  the  said  Margaret  £300,  and  to  William 
and  John  Dunkine  £30  each.  In  July,  35th  Elizabeth,  George  and  Margaret  Harrison  accepted 
this  £300.  Katherine,  his  widowe,  still  liveth. 

Further  answer  of  William  Pretyman,  Gent.,  Junr,  16  May  1599.  Thomas  Pretyman  was 
his  grandfather,  and  dyed  before  he  was  born.  John  Pretyman,  his  other  grandson,  who  was 
eldest  son  of  Peter,  and  elder  brother  to  this  Defendant,  was  then  thirteen  or  fourteen  years  old. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  2  Eliz.,  H.h.  4,  50. 

The  suit  is  continued  in  Pretyman  contra  Harrison,  Bridges  B.  &  A.  (before  1714)  539. 
The  pedigrees  on  pp.  305  and  306  throw  much  light  upon  the  rather  complicated  relationships 
of  the  parties  concerned. 


Inquisition  on  il)£  teatl)  of  Sir  JoI)n  frilmnan,  1659. 

Gloucestershire.  Inquisition  taken  at  Circencester  on  the  20th  day  of  April  in  the  15th 
year  of  King  Charles  on  the  death  of  John  Prettyman  late  of  Driffield  in  the  said  County. 
It  was  deposed  that  he  had  been  seized  of  the  Manors  of  Bacton  and  New  hall  Breas  worth  in 
Suffolk,  and  of  that  Capital  Messuage  in  S4  Mary  Ampney  in  Gloucestershire,  parcell  of  the 
Manor  of  S4  Mary  Ampney  and  Ashbrook,  called  Cancourte  Farme.  By  an  Indenture,  dated 
10th  May  in  the  104h  year  of  the  present  King,  between  the  said  Sir  John  Prettyman  K4  and 
Mary  his  wife  of  the  first  part,  John  Prettyman  Esqr,  then  .son  and  heir  of  the  said  Sir  John  of 
the  second  part,  John  Quarles,  Esq.  and  Humfrey  Dolman,  Esq.,  of  Shawe  co.  Berks,  of  the 


F  RET  Y  MAN  OF  BACTON. 


299 


third  part,  Edward  Hungerford  of  Chadham  in  Wiltshire,  Esq.,  of  the  fourth  part,  and  Richard 

Browne  of  Detford  in  Kent,  Esq.,  of  the  fifth  part,  in  consideration  of  the  marriage  between 

John  Prettyman  the  son  and  Elizabeth  then  and  now  his  wife,  it  was  agreed  that  Sir  John 
Prettyman  and  Mary  his  wife  and  John  Prettyman  his  son  should  levy  a  fine  by  which  John 
Quarles  &  Humfrey  Dolman  should  hold  said  manors,  ifec. .  to  the  use  of  Edward  Hungerford 
and  Richard  Brown  ....  Prettyman  and  William  Prettyman  the  son  and  daughter  of  the 
said  John  Prettyman  in  the  brief  named.  On  the  expiry  of  nine  years  and  two  days,  the  said 
Manors  of  Driffield  and  Sfc  Mary  Ampney,  &c.,  to  remain  to  the  use  of  Sir  John  Pretyman 

Kfc,  for  life,  and  after  his  death,  closes,  &c.,  to  the  use  of  the  said  Mary  Pretyman,  now 

defunct,  and  after  her  death  to  the  use  of  John  Pretyman  the  son  and  the  heirs  of  his  body, 
and  failing  these  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  aforesaid  Sir  John  Pretyman.  This  fine  was  levied 
in  Trinity  term  in  the  10th  year  of  the  reign  of  King  Charles.  Afterwards  in  the  12th  year 
of  the  said  King  Sir  John  Pretyman  and  John  Pretyman,  Esqr,  his  son,  by  Indenture  and 
Fine,  sold  their  Manors  of  Bacton  and  Newhall  Breas worth  to  a  certain  Henry  Pretyman  for 
£1,450  to  them  paid.  Sir  John  Pretyman,  still  seized  of  lands  and  tenements  in  Suffolk  which 
he  had  not  sold,  and  of  the  Manors  of  Driffield  and  Sl  Mary  Ampney  and  Ashbrook  in  co. 
Gloucester,  on  the  22d  of  Decr  in  the  14th  year  of  the  present  King’s  reign,  died  at  Driffield ; 
and  John  Pretyman  was  Iris  son  and  heir,  and  was  aged  twenty  six  years  and  upwards  at  the  time 
of  his  decease.  The  Manor  of  Driffield  was  held  of  the  King  in  capite.  And  the  Manors  of 
S4  Mary  Ampney  and  Ashbrook  with  the  Tithes  of  Sk  Mary  Ampney,  and  the  capital  messuage 
called  Cancourts  remain  as  limited  until  the  expiration  of  the  nine  years  and  two  days. 


@ill  of  Jltaro  Utitg,  1654. 

Mary  King,  widdowe,  now  residing  in  Marke  Lane,  London,  the  lift  day  of  July  1654. 
To  be  buried  without  vaine  pomp  or  ostentation  in  the  evening.  Benjamin  Baron,  my  onlv 
sonne  by  my  first  husband,  and  John  King,  my  eldest  sonne  by  my  second  husband,  are 
sufficiently  advanced  in  landes  and  leases  by  theire  severall  fathers,  and  my  daughter  Elizabeth 
Prettiman  hath  lately  bin  sufficiently  advanced  by  me  in  marriage  to  her  now  husband.  My 
sonne  Henry  King  is  still  in  his  minority.  I  giue  to  him  the  full  summe  of  six  hundred 
pounds  as  limited  by  certain  Indenture.  To  my  said  sonne  Henry  King  my  lands  and 
tenements  purchased  of  James  Hennings  of  Greene  Ende  in  the  parish  of  Stondon,  co.  Hertfs, 
in  1642,  when  he  shall  attaine  the  age  of  fower  and  twenty  yeares.  I  charge  him  to  be 
ruled  by  my  Executors.  Vnto  my  brother  George  Hari'ison  fiftie  poundes  and  to  my  godsonne 
Thomas  Fitche,  sonne  of  my  sister  Katherine  Fitche,  fiftie  poundes.  To  my  sonnes  Benjamin 
Baron,  John  King  and  my  sonne  in  law  William  Prettiman.  My  goods  remaining  in  the 
house  wherein  I  lately  dwelt  in  Blakesware  in  the  County  of  Hertfs,  now  in  the  occupation 
of  Sir  Roger  Langley,  Barronett,  comprised  in  pole  deede  made  to  me  by  John  King  my  sonn 
in  the  yeare  1651  (with  exception)  I  giue  to  saide  sonne  John  King; — the  pictures  mentioned 
in  said  deed  to  remaine  in  the  greate  Parlour,  matted  Chamber,  little  Parlour,  Hall  and 
Chamber  over  the  Hall.  I  giue  vnto  John  King  my  sonne  his  owne  Picture,  his  ffather’s, 
Mother’s,  Grandfather’s,  Grandmother  King’s  Pictures ;  as  also  Bishop  Henry  King  and  his 
wife’s  picture,  and  King  James  and  his  daught  the  Lady  Elizabeth’s  Pictures.  Vnto  my 

2  O2 


300 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


daughter  Prebtiman  a  Table  with  drawers  remaining  in  the  Closett  in  the  matted  chamber  in 
Blaksware.  I  order  that  my  lattine  Bookes  remaining  at  my  Mother’s,  Mistris  Harrisons’,  house 
in  Marke  lane  shall  be  sould  by  my  Executors ;  but  with  this  direction  that  my  brother, 
Bishop  Henry  King,  shall  have  refusall  of  them  if  he  pleaseth,  giving  for  them  a  valuable 
price  as  another  Chapman  will  giue.  The  best  of  my  apparell  I  giue  vnto  my  sister  Fitche’s 
three  daughters.  To  my  sonne  Henry  my  best  Persia  Carpett.  To  my  daughter  Pretteman  one 
long  cushion  wrought  in  tente  worke  and  imbroydered  vpon  sattin.  Books  in  my  sonne  John 
King’s  house.  To  my  daughter  Baron  my  ring  with  a  Rose  of  diamonds,  and  to  my  daughter 
King  my  diamond  ring  in  fashion  of  a  Harte.  To  my  sonne  Henry  King  the  Seale,  with  my 
late  husband  Doctour  John  King  his  Armes  thereon,  made  of  a  Hellitropion.  To  my  daughter 
Prettiman  my  seale  with  a  saphir  sett  in  Gold,  my  gould  watch,  and  my  sett  of  Counters, 
Cherurgion’s  Instruments,  Gold  Bodkins  and  other  Toyes  in  my  Closett,  which  are  useful  for 
her  quality,  and  her  father’s  picture  in  a  gold  case.  To  my  brother  George  Harrison  fiue 

poundes  to  bye  him  a  Ring  in  remembrance  of  me.  My  fiue  grandchildren,  Dorothie,  Mary, 

and  Beniamin  Baron,  children  of  m37  sonne  Beniamine  Baron,  and  Elizabeth  and  John  King, 
children  of  my  sonne  John  King.  My  cousin  Mary  Fitch  who  now  liueth  with  mee.  My 
cousin  Morbene,  Minister,  and  to  such  other  ministers  as  my  Exor  shall  thinke  fitt.  My 
Cousins  Grace  Mascall  and  Mary  Beddell.  To  my  loueing  Mother,  Misteris  Mary  Harrison,  an 
emerald  ring  sett  with  small  diamond  to  vse  for  her  life,  and  after  her  decease  I  bequeath 

the  same  to  my  dowghter  Elizabeth  Prettiman.  My  beloued  Brother  in  lawe  Bishopp  Henry 
King.  My  loueing  kinsman  Bishopp  Ralph  Bromrigg  [Brownrigg].  I  appoint  said  Bishopps 
overseers  of  this  my  will.  To  the  poore  of  Saint  Hallowes  Staynings,  London,  where  I  was 
borne.  Rest  of  my  estate  not  disposed  of  unto  my  sonne  Benjamin  Baron  and  sonne  in  Law, 
William  Prettiman  whom  I  confirm  e  Executors  of  this  will.  This  will  was  proved  18th  August 
1654  by  the  oaths  of  the  ioynt  executors.  P.C.C.  19  Alehin. 

Elizabeth  Pretyman,  daughter  of  the  testatrix  by  her  second  husband,  Dr.  John  King, 
Bishop  Elect  of  Eljy  was  wife  of  William  Pretyman,  the  brave  Royalist  so  frequently 
mentioned  by  Evelyn  in  his  Diary.  She  was  married  at  Charlton,  Kent,  October  26,  1652. 

See  Pedigree,  page  312. 


CljaitrOT  fwtuman  t.  1665* 

November  30th  1665. 

To  the  right  Honble.  Edward  Earle  of  Clarendon  Lord  High  Chancellor  of  England. 

Humbly  complaineing  sheweth  unto  your  Lopp  your  daily  Orator  Sir  John  Prettyman  of 
Loddington  in  the  county  of  Leic  Knight  and  Barfc,  That  wheras  your  Orator  in  the  yeare  of 
our  Lord  Christ  1656,  and  longe  before,  was  seized  of  some  other  estate  of  Inheritance,  amongst 
other  things  of  the  Mannor  of  Loddington  in  the  said  county  &  the  Rtory  Impropriate  of 
Loddington  and  the  advowson  of  the  Viccaridge  there,  &  of  messuages,  lands,  closes  &  other 
heriditamts  to  the  said  mannor  belonginge.  And  beinge  soe  seized  did  in  the  month  of  Aprill 
in  the  seid  yeare  of  our  Lord  1656,  in  consideration  of  a  marriage  had  between  John 
Prettyman  Esqr,  your  orators  then  eldest  sonne  and  heire  apparent,  and  Margarett  daughter  of 
Sr  Matthew  Mennes,  Knt  of  the  Bath,  convey  and  assure  severall  closes  &  parcells  of  the  said 
Mannor  of  Loddington,  amountinge  to  the  yearley  value  of  fowerteene  hundred  pounds  or  there- 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


301 


abouts,  to  the  vse  of  your  orator  for  his  Life  and  after  his  decease  then  to  the  vse  and 
behoofe  of  the  said  John  Prettyman.  And  your  orator  further  sheweth  that  in  pursueance  of 
his  constant  Loyalty  to  his  sacred  Majtie  that  now  is,  your  orator  did  in  the  monthes  of  June, 

July  &  August  which  were  in  the  yare  of  our  Lord  1659,  became  engaged  with  the  right 

honble  James  Earle  of  North  ton  and  with  Sr  Geo :  Booth,  then  Knight  Baronett  now  Lord 
Delameere,  and  severall  other  persons  of  honor  and  Loyalty,  in  a  designe  to  raise  an  army  for 

the  restauracon  of  his  Royall  Majtie  that  now  is  j  wherein  your  orator  expended  three  thousand 

pounds  att  the  least  of  his  owne  pp  estate.  And  by  reason  that  the  forces  vnder  the  cofhand 
of  the  said  Sr  George  Booth  (which  was  the  most  considerable  Body  engaged  in  y*  designe) 
were  routed  and  defeated  by  the  Rebells,  your  orator  was  brought  into  very  greate  hazard  of 
looseing  both  his  life  and  estate  and  into  continuall  feare  thereof. 

Thereupon  your  orator  was  advised  not  to  rest  vpon  the  said  former  conveyance ;  and, 
resolved  that  it  was  most  safe  for  him  to  trust  his  owne  children,  [by  a  deed]  executed  in  or 
about  the  month  of  November  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lord  1659,  he  conveyed  the  mannor  of 
Loddington,  <kc.,  vnto  William  Quarles,  Richd  Orton  &  Richd  Verney  Esq.,  to  the  use  and 
behoofe  of  your  orator  for  the  terme  of  his  life ;  the  remainder  to  Sr  George  Pretyman  in 
taile ;  the  remainder  to  William  Pretyman  gent  your  orator’s  third  sonne  in  taile ;  the  re¬ 
mainder  to  Thomas  Pretyman  Gent  your  orator’s  fourth  sonne  in  tayle ;  the  remainder  in  fee 
to  your  orator’s  right  heires  for  ever ;  with  power  reserved  to  your  orator  and  Dame  Eliz.  his 
then  wife  to  revoke  or  alter  the  vses  vnder  their  hands  and  seales.  (The  same  was  made 
and  executed  after  defeate  of  the  sd  Sr  George  Booth’s  forces)  yett  was  dated  longe  before. 

Certain  articles  of  agreement  bearing  date  23d  day  of  May  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lord 
1663,  were  made  between  yor  orator,  as  had  been  desired  by  the  said  Dame  Eliz :,  and  said 
Sr  George  Pretyman,  which  conveyed  ye  capitall  messuage  of  Loddington  and  all  the  lands  of 
the  mannor  which  had  not  been  settled  by  yor  orator  vpon  his  sonne  Jo  :  Pretyman  &  his  wife 
issue.  Those  lands  wch  your  orator  had  settled  vpon  his  eldest  sonne,  John  Prettyman,  and 
his  wife  or  issue,  your  orator  would  keepe  to  bee  disposed  of  att  his  owne  will  and  pleasure. 

Your  orator  did  shortly  after,  viz.  in  the  month  of  June  wh  was  in  the  yeare  of  our 

Lord  1663,  accomplish  ye  sd  articles. 

But,  may  itt  please  yor  Lopp,  since  that  time,  to  witt  in  the  months  of  August  or 

September  1664,  John  Pretyman  Esquire  yor  orator’s  Grandchild,  an  Infant  who  was  the  sole 
child  &  heire  of  your  orator’s  said  deed  eldest  sonne  John  Pretyman,  dyed,  whereby  the 
revercon  or  remainder  in  fee  simple,  limitted  to  your  orator  as  aforesd  by  the  sd  settlenJ  made 
vpon  the  said  marriage  of  his  said  eldest  sonne,  is  now  come  to  nought.  And  Sr  Geo. 
Pretyman  has  taken  possession  of  ye  mannor  &  ([misses  settled  vpon  John  Pretyman  &  doth 
make  very  greate  wast  &  spoile  in  the  woods  and  timber  groweinge  about  the  same,  <fc  in 

ploweinge  vpp  antient  pasture  grounds,  to  your  orator’s  manifest  wronge  <fc  iniury. 

And  your  orator  further  sheweth  that  whereas  he  is  indebted  vnto  his  sacred  Majtie  that 
now  is  in  ye  sume  of  4000 1,  which  hee  allwayes  was  &  still  is  very  desirous  to  pay  &  satisfie, 
yor  orator  pposed  the  securinge  of  the  same  vnto  his  Majestie  out  of  the  estate  wch  your 
orator  hath  in  Loddington.  But  Sr  George  Pretyman,  haveing  notice  thereof,  did  wholly  defeate  & 
hinder  yor  orator  in  the  perfecting  thereof;  scandalizeinge  your  orator’s  title  by  color  of  ye  sd 
settlements  which  yor  orator  made  for  the  preservation  of  his  life  &  estate  in  the  sd  times  of 
Rebellion. 


Mitford,  337,  167. 


302 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Answer  of  Sir  George  Pretyman,  Knt.  : — 

This  defendant  saith  that  he  believeth  itt  is  very  well  knowne  to  this  Defendant’s  said 
Father,  that  this  defendant  was  as  deepely  engaged  in  that  undertaking  as  the  Complaynant 
was,  and  was  in  greater  danger  than  his  sayd  Father,  being  taken  prisoner  in  the  service;  and 
afterwards  inakinge  his  escape,  was  constreyned  to  fly  beyond  the  sea  for  safety  of  his  life,  and 
to  abide  there  till  near  about  the  restitution  of  his  Majesty ;  and  therefore  there  is  noe 
probability  that  his  sayd  Father  would  thinke  the  estate  protected  in  this  Defendant’s  name. 

Pretyman  c.  Pretyman,  Hamilton,  428 

Feby.  1st  1668,  London.  Letter  of  George  Pretyman  to  Mr.  Burdenand : — 

I  am  frustrated  by  my  father  in  my  endeavours,  though  made  chiefly  for  his  advantage. 
He  tries  to  persuade  the  Commissioners  that  I  detain  the  estate,  and  prevent  the  satisfying  of 
the  King’s  debt.  I  am  resolved  to  make  no  further  efforts  to  procure  my  father’s  freedom,  but 
to  secure  my  own  estate  against  his  pretensions,  and  leave  him  to  take  his  own  course. 

State  Papers,  Domestic,  Car.  II  234,  No.  1. 


Jfrom  tjjc  Visitation  of  Haecstcr,  1681-3. 

Sr.  William  Halford,  of  Welham, =f=Elizabeth  daur.  of  Sr.  John  Prettyman  of  Loddington  in  com:  Leic.  Knt.  fy  Barrt.  by  Eliz. 

Leicr.  Knt.  Oct.  29,  Ao.  23,  last  I  his  wife  daur.  sole  heir  of  George  Turpin  of  Knaptoft  in  Co.  Leic. 

past. 

r~ - 1 - 1 

William  Halford  eldest  son  set.  18,  Ao.  1681.  Other  issue. 

(Signed)  William  Halford. 

The  above  is  a  faithful  extract  from  the  Pedigree  of  Halford  recorded  in  the  Heralds’  Visitation 
of  Leic.  Ao.  1681  made  the  22  day  of  Oct.  1822,  by  me. 

( Signed )  Eras  :  Townsend,  Rouge  Dragon. 


jfrom  tfjr  Visitation  of  tLrirrsttr,  1681. 


Gl  Goscott  Hundred.— Leicester,  23  Mar.  1681. 

Sr  Grevil  Varney  of  Compton  Verney  in  com. ^Catherine  daur.  of  Sr  Robr  Southwell  of 
Wors.  obijt  circ  an  1640  set  58.  Woodrising  in  com.  Norf :  Knt. 


2.  Richard  Verney  of  Alexton  in  com.  Rutland  Esq  Mary  eldest  daur.  of  Sr  Jno  Prettiman  of  Lodington  in  com  Leic  Kt  $p 
now  High  Shireeve  of  ye  sd  County  of  Rutland  set  55  Bt  by  Eliz  his  wife  dr  sole  hr  of  George  Turpin  of  Knaptoft  in  com 
an  1681,  8f  Just,  of  Peace-  Leic.  1  w. 


1.  John  Verney  Barr,  at  law 
of  ye  Middle  Temple  set  25 

1681. 


2.  George  now  a  fellow  of 
New  College  in  Oxford  set 
20,  1681. 


- ! - 

3.  Thomas,  Mercht 
in  Bond  set  18 
arm. 


Mary  wife  of  Samuel 
Davenport  ofCalveley 
in  co  Cestr. 

(Signed)  Richard  Verney. 


Extracted  from  the  Visitation  of  Leicester  made  1681-3,  and  examined  thereivith.  (Signed)  Charles.  A.  Athill,  Richmond 
Herald  of  Arms.  Coll,  of  Arms,  London,  29  April  1901. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


303 


ffrctgman  ffrMgrte,  %i  debt’s  Hmgtjts. 


Sir  George  Prettyman  2d  Son  of  Sir  John  Prettyman  of  Lodington  Co  :  LeicT  Bar  he  was  knighted  at 


John  Prettyman  held  50  Acres  of  Pasture  Sfc.  in  Thorndon  in 
Suffolk,  A»  4  Eliz :  See  my  several  Books  of  Suffolk 
Escheats. 

See  my  Suffolk  Pedigrees  late  Morgan’s,  p  75  where  are  the 
Proofs  of  this  Pedigree. 

See  my  M.S.S.  Suffolk,  A.  11,  1299. 

[On  page  126,  “  see  Mistress  Mary  Prettyman’ s  letter.”] 


Thomas  Prettyman  of  Bacton  in  Suffolk: 
which  he  purchased  A0  20  Eliz. 


.  .  .—William  Pretty-'- 
1st  man  of  Bacton 
wife.  Suffolk. 


=.  .  .  2d  wife  daur. 
of  William  Howe  of 
Stowmarket,  Suf¬ 
folk. 


.  .  29  Septr  1660. 

A  grant  of  Arms  to  Sir 
John  Pretyman  Knight, 
by  Segar  and  Camden, 
Garter  and  Claren- 
ceaux  .  .  .  day  of  1607. 
See  my  Book  called 
Shirley  fol.  318. 


1st  wife— Dorothy  daur.  of  Sir —Sir  John  Prettyman  of  Bacton,  sold  his  Estate  at  Bacton  ff  pur-^Mary  daur.  of 


Quy  a  daur.  Robert  Drury  Knt  chased  at  Driffield  in  Com  :  Gloucr.  Had  a  grant  of  Arms  by 
of  Tracy.  2d  1  wife.  Segar  Sf  Camden  Garter  and  Clarenceux  1607  ( said  to  be  buried 

at  Driffield).  Knighted  at  the  Coronation  of  King  Jas.  I. 


Bourchier 
of  Barnesley 
Co :  Gloucr. 


- 1 

William  Prettyman  of 
Grays  Inn  died  SP.  8f  his 
brother  found  to  be  his 
heir  21  Eliz : 


Sir  John  Pretty -- 
man  of  Loding¬ 
ton  Knt,  created 
aBaronet  of  Nova 
Scotia  .  .  .  day 
of  ...  16  .  .  . 
(some  erasure 
here). 


-Elizabeth 
daur.  Sf 
sole  heir 
of  Sr 
George 
Turpin  of 
Knaptoft. 


Susan  married 
Edward  Hun- 
gerford  of  Cad- 
enham  Co : 
Wilts  Esqr.,  fa¬ 
ther  of  Sir  Geo. 
Hungerford 
Kt,  see  p.  126. 


2.  Elizabeth  mar¬ 
ried  Sir  Richard 
Brown  of  Jays 
Court  Deptford  Co : 
Kent  Bart,  one  of 
the  clerks  of  the 
Green  Cloth. 


- 1 - 

3.  Mary 
died 
unmar¬ 
ried. 


4.  Robert.  3.  William  Pretty-^Elizabeth  daur.  of  John  King 


man  of  London 
Esqr  Remembran¬ 
cer  of  the  First 
Fruits,  died  ) 
March  1687,  burd 
at  Greenwich  Kent. 


William  Prettyman  living  unmarried  1696  a  Captn  of  a  Foot  Comp  died  un¬ 
married  burd  at  St  Martins  in  the  Fields  10th  Feby.  1707. 


Bishop  elect  of  Ely  but  never 
consecrated,  son  of  John  King 
Bp.  of  London  Bro’  of  Henry 
King  Bp.  of  Chichester ;  she 
died  26  Septr  1702  burd.  at 
the  New  Chapel  Westminster. 


Elizabeth  and  Mary,  living  unmar¬ 
ried  1712. 


i - 

John  Pret-- 
tyman  eld¬ 
est  son  died 
in  his  fa¬ 
ther’s  life¬ 
time. 


■Martha 
daur.  of 

Mints. 


Sir  George  Prettyman  of=f=.  .  .  daur.  of  Sr  Isaac 


Lodington  Co  :  Leicr  K 
Bt.  Knighted  as  before. 
He  or  his  father  sold 
Lodington.  He  is  living 
in  London  1712  and  goes 
a  begging. 


Sydley  of  St  Cleres  in 
Kent  B(  relict  of  Sr 
Chas  Houghton  of 
Norff:  Knt.  She  is  liv¬ 
ing  at  ....  in  Staf¬ 
fordshire. 


Williams 
Prettyman 
living  with 
Sr  Richard 
Verney 
Lord  W. 
1712. 


daur. 

of 


Thomas'- 
Pretty¬ 
man  of 
Hack¬ 
ney 
Middx. 


A  son  died 
young. 


1.  George 
Prettyman. 


2.  Sherley- 
Prettyman. 


Elizabeth  married  . 
Berkeley  of  Ireland. 


-.  .  .  1.  Mary  married  Sr  Richd. 

daur.  Verney  Lord  Willoughby 
of  de  Brooke. 

2.  Elizabeth  married  1st  Sr 
Thomas  Burton  of  Stokers- 
ton  Co.  Leicr  Bar 1  S/'  2'tlH 
Sr  William  Halford  of  Wel- 
ham  Co  :  Leicr  Knt. 


Elizabeth  living  1712. 


1  son.  1  daur.  3.  Katherine  marrd  .... 

Holford  of  Grays  Inn  Bar¬ 
rister  left  two  daurs. 

4.  Susan  marrd.  .  .  Sache- 
verell  of  Morley  Co.  Derby. 


Extracted  from  a  Collection  of  Pedigrees  of  Knights  made  by  Le  Neve  and  now  in  the 
British  Museum,  Harl.  MSS.  No.  5801,  p.  39,  by  me 

Fras.  Townsend. 


^rtn'gree  from  tfje  Suffolk  Visitation,  1612. 


“John  Pritiman  of  Thornton  in  Suff :  mar:  Mary  ye  d  ;  of  Sayre  of  Colchester  in  Essex  had  issue  John  sonne  §- 
h  :  George  obijt,  Thomas  age  15,  Willm.  age  12,  Margerett  mar:  to  Willm.  Browne  of  Colchester,  Elizabeth  age  16,  Ann  age  11, 
Rose  obijt.  John  Pritiman  sonne  h :  of  John.” 

Arms,  as  tricked  in  the  margin,  Gules,  a  lion  passant  between  three  mullets  Or. 


Harl.  MS.  1820,  fo.  64  b. 


304 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


^ctugrrc  from  t \)t  Suffolk  <£tsttatton,  1664. 

Thomas  Pretyman  of  Barton  ( Bacton)  =f- Mary1  sister  of  Henry  Houldrich ;  dan  :  of  .  .  ,2  Holdrich 


in  com :  Stiff. 


of  Beadlington  in  com  :  Norf. 


Henry  Pretyman,  of  Barton=^Mary  dan.  and  coheir  of  Richard  Pretyman  who  was  Coz-german  to  St:  John 


( Bacton ). 


Pretyman  of  Leicr. 


John  Pretyman  of  Barton  (Bacton) ,=pKatherine  dan.  of  Almott  Clench  of 


gt  1664. 


Great  Beatings  in  Com.  Suff. 


Henry  sonne  and  heir. 


1.  Mary. 


2.  Kath. 


- 1 

4.  Susan. 


3.  Margt. 

( Signed )  John  Brooke  for  Mr.  Jo.  Pretyman. 


A  true  copy  from  the  Visitation  Booh  of  the  county  of  Suffolk  Ao.  1664  remaining  in  the  College  of  Arms  Lond.  (D.  22)  this 
29  day  of  July  1868. 

( Signed )  Thos  :  Wm  King,  York  Herald. 


^rturyrff  from  tfjr  imitation  of  Norfolk,  1664. 

Peter  Pretyman  of  Backton  in  Com.  Suffolk.=j=Ann  daur.  of  ..  .  Wilson.3 


George  Pretyman,  of  Backton.  =f=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  ..  .  Wilson  of  ...  in  com.  Suff. 


Peter  Pretyman,  of  Lynn  Regis  in  Com.  Norf.  gt  1664.=f=Frances,  dau.  of  Samuell  Baron  of  Lynne  Regis,  Ar. 


George  sonne  8f  heire  set.  5,  Ao.  1664. 


1.  Frances. 


2.  Susan. 


A  true  copy  from  the  Visitation 
29  day  of  July  1868. 


(Signed)  Peter  Pretyman. 

Book  of  the  Co.  of  Norf.  Ao.  1664  remaining  in  the  College  of  Arms  London  (D.  20)  this 

(Signed)  Thos.  Wm.  King,  York  Herald. 


jfrom  tlje  ^tsitatton  of  Norfolk,  1664. 

Peter  Baron  sine  Baro  descened  out  of  France.=rGuillemette  Burguin. 

i - 1 

Peter  Baron  of  Boston  com.  Lincoln. =f=Mary  dr.  of  Be  la  Fontaine  of  Antxcerp. 

I 

i - 7 — 7 - - - 1 

Samuel  Baron  of  Lynn  Regis  in  Norf.  Dr.  of  Physick  lddl.^Frances,  dr.  of  Thos.  Goddard  of  Rutham  in  com.  Norf. 

I 

I - 1 - 1 

Frances  ux.  Petr.  Prittiman.  Other  issue. 

Arms  granted  to  Peter  Baron  of  Boston  by  Camden  Clarenceaux  :  Az.  in  chief  a  decrescent  and  increscent  moon  Ar.,  in  base 
a  molet  Or. 

Vide  Ancestor,  vol.  iii,  p.  117. 


1  Should  read  Hellen. 
5  John. 


3  Should  read  Thos.  Harwell  of  Felsham  co.  Suff  :  he  married 
secondly  Elizabeth  Wilson  co.  Norf.  by  whom  no  issue. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


305 


iprrtgman  of  33arton. 

John  Pratyman,  mentioned  in  Baeton  Charters  Ao.  35  Edward  III  (1361)  and  Ao.  50  Edward  III  (1376), 
as  holding  lands  there. 


William  Pratyman,  of  Baeton  ;  mentioned  in  Baeton  Charter,  dated  Ao.  7  Richard  II  (1383),  as  holding  laud;  possibly  the  same  who  held 
lands  near  Howlots,  in  Baeton;  mentioned  in  Charter  dated  Baeton,  29  Sep.,  Ao.  17  Bio.  II  1393  (At  Orwell  Park)  ;  died  before  1407. 
Presumed  to  have  married  a  daughter  of  Nicholas  Hobart,  and  to  be  the  father  of 


Nicholas  Pratyman. 
Grant  to  him  and  his 
brother  William,  1413, 
by  surr.  of  Richard 
Hobart.  Vide  Baeton 
Manor  Rolls. 


William  Pratyman,  of  Howlots,  Baeton.  Witness  to  Bacton- 
Charters  dated  9  Jan.  1407  and  1  May  1409  ;  (at  Orwell  Park) 
1413,  Prcepositus  of  Baeton  Manor;  1414,  witness  to  Baeton 
Charter  (at  Orwell  Park) ;  styled  “sen.”  1434;  1418,  exor.  of 
Peter  Howlot ;  dying  4  Oct.  1440  surrenders  lands  to  his  wife, 
his  son  William,  and  daughter  Alice. 


1  Agnes  (P  dau.  of  Peter  Howlot),  survived  her  hus¬ 
band,  who,  1440,  left  her  land  in  Baeton,  with  rem. 
to  their  son  William  ;  ob.  c.  1456.  These  lands  are 
traced  by  the  Baeton  Manor  Rolls  (at  Orwell  Park) 
by  generations  to  the  great  grandson  of  her  great 
grandson  Thomas  Pratyman,  of  Baeton. 


Alice,  mar.  1st  John  Revet,  Junr.,  of  Baeton,  before  1440 ; 
her  father  left  her  lands  in  fee  simple  by  charter  1440. 
Mar.  2d  John  Cake,  of  Baeton.  Her  Will,  c.  Ep.  Nor. 
Lib.  Hubert  80b,  4  Feb.  1488,  proved  at  Baeton,  10  May  ; 
leaves  lands  for  a  light  to  burn  before  “  the  Image  of 
our  Lady  of  St.  Mary  of  Pity  ”  and  “  to  buy  a  book  for 
the  Church.”  Buried  at  Baeton. 


William  Pratyman,  of  Howlots,  in  Baeton;  styled  “  Jun.”  1432,=pMarjory 


“  Sen.”  1440 ;  witness  to  Baeton  Charter  8  Oct.  1457  (at  Orwell 
Park).  In  1473  surrenders  lands  to  his  son  William,  Jun.,  and 
to  use  of  Will  13  July  1475  ;  leaves  money  for  “  organs  and 
ornaments  of  Baeton  Church  ”  ( vide  Manor  Rolls,  20  July  1479). 
Grant  of  land  in  Cotton  ( vide  Cotton  Rolls)  to  self  and  son 
John,  Sep.  1476;  dead  July  1479. 


survived  her 
husband;  last 
mentioned  in 
BactonManor 
Rolls,  as  his 
widow,  July 
1479. 


John  Pratyman,  “  Sen.,  son  of  William,  Sen.”  Thus  mentioned 
in  Cotton  Bresw'orth  Manor  Rolls,  1499  ;  grant  in  Cotton  to  him 
and  his  father  in  Sep.  1476,  for  which  he  did  fealty.  Ancestor 
of  the  Thorndon  Branch.  Vide  Pedigree. 


Peetyman 


A\ 

of  Thorndon. 


William  Pratyman,  of  Howlots,  Baeton;  styled  “Jun.”  1458, =j= Agnes 
“  Sen.”  1492  ;  known  as  “  Common  Ancestor  ”  of  the  Baeton 
and  Driffield,  co.  Gloc.,  Pretymans ;  sue.  to  his  father’s  lands  in 
Cotton  1478;  witness  to  deed  1474  (at  Orwell  Park).  His 
copyhold  lands  to  youngest  son,  “  custom  of  Manor  ”  of  Baeton, 
and  free  lands  to  eldest  son;  died  circa  1499,  intestate ;  dead 
1503.  Vide  deed  at  Orwell  Park. 


William  Pratyman,  Sen., 
yeoman,  of  Baeton, eldest 
son,  born  1463.  Ancestor 
of  the  Pretymans  of 
Driffield,  Lodington,  and 
Greenesfarme.  Fide  Ped¬ 


igree. 


A 


Pretyman  of  Driffif,ld. 


Thomas  Pratyman,  Sen.,  yeoman,  of  Howlots  and  Old  Newton  ;= 
youngest  son ;  held  by  knight’s  service  of  the  Manor  ;  of  Haughley 
1540  ;  lands  in  Cotton  Hall,  Old  Newton,  and  in  Wickham  Skeith, 
Cotton,  and  Bury.  Succeeded  to  copyhold  lands  of  Manor  of  Baeton 
(custom  to  youngest)  held  by  his  great  grandfather,  William  Praty¬ 
man,  for  which  he  did  fealty  in  1500;  surrendered  in  Court,  1543, 
to  youngest  son  Peter.  Will,  Arch.  Sud.,  10  July  1543.  “  Longe,” 

fol.  349,  mentions  sons  Robert  and  Peter,  and  grandsons  John  and 
Thomas.  Buried  at  Baeton  16  July  1543. 


:Johanne,  dau. of  JohnGarnom  (Gernoun), 
of  Baeton,  great  great  grandson  of  Robert 
Gernoun,  of  Wickham  Skeith,  who  pur¬ 
chased  land  in  Baeton  1421  (vide  deed  at 
Orwell  Park).  Her  Will,  Arch.  Sudb. 
“  Cole,”  fol.  218,  6  Apr.  1645,  pr.  4  May 
1546,  mentions  sons  Robert  and  Peter, 
and  grandsons  John  and  Thomas. 
Buried  at  Baeton,  8  Apr.  1545. 


Robert  Pratyman,  yeoman,  of  Old 
Newton,  eldest  son  ;  purchased 
manor  of  Old  Newton  of  Sir  Ed¬ 
mund  Bedingfield,  1543  ;  held  first 
Court  1544;  living  Oct.  1561;  dead 
Trinity  1562.  Vide  Cotton  Bres- 
wortli  Manor  Rolls. 


:Mai’garet,  relict  Peter  Pretyman,  of  Howlots,  Baeton,  2d  son  ;  did  fealty 
of  Thos.  Ger-  for  his  father’s  lands  to  Anne  of  Cleves,  Lady  of  the  Manor, 
noun,  of  Cotton.  1554,  when  he  surrendered  to  Katherine,  his  wife,  with 
Mar.  secondly  remainder  to  John,  his  son,  when  of  age  ;  remainder  to 
circa  1534 ;  liv-  William,  his  2d  son.  Will,  19  July  1654,  pr.  17  April 
ing  1553.  1559  Arch.  Sudb.  Bom  circa  1500,  a  boy  in  1511  (Bac- 

ton  Rolls)  ;  bur.  at  Baeton  24  July  1554. 

See 


r  Katherine  Fenne,  widow, 
of  Debenham  (dau.  of  P 
John  Fenne).  She  mar. 
secondly,  at  Baeton,  5 
Oct.  1539 ;  survived  2d 
husband  ;  living  1563. 


Thomas  Pretyman.  Lord  of  Old  Newton  Manor,  1557  ;  named  in  his  grand-=j=  Agnes,  dau.  of  John  Banninge.  She  mar.  secondly  John 


parents’  Wills,  1543-5.  Will,  4  Aug.  1566  ;  prob.  10  Aug.,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
Inq.  p.m.  9  Eliz. ;  Thomas,  his  son  and  h.,  then  set.  two  years. 


Stubbs,  circa  26  Eliz.,  by  whom  two  sons,  Philip  and  another. 
She  held  Old  Newton  Manor  until  1586. 


Thomas  Pretyman,  Lord  of  Old  Newton  Manor,  born  1564  ;  first  Court,  1 587. =r Dorcas,  ?  dau.  of  Thos.  Goodale,  of 
Purchased  Netherhall  in  Newton  and  lands  in  Gislingham.  Admon.  to  his  I  Stoneham,  already  mar.  in  1594  ; 
widow,  Cur.  Ep.  Norwich  1615  ;  Inq.  p.m.  13  Jas.  Died  14  Aug.  1615.  |  died  20  Feb.  1617. 


- 1 

Elizabeth,  named 
in  her  father’s 
Will. 


Thomas  Pretyman,  eldest  son,  set.  14  in 
1615 ;  born  Dec.  1601 ;  bur.  at  Baeton, 
11  Jan.  1617.  Inq.  p.m.  Court  of 
Wards,  1618;  ob.  s.p.,  his  brother 
Robert  being  his  heir. 


Robert  Pretyman,  Lord  of  Old  Newton  Manor ;  his  first  Court,  26  Oct.  1631 ;  heir  to  his  brother, 
Thomas  Pretyman.  Will,  P.C.C.  141  Nabbs,  25  April  1659,  proved  16  July  1660  ;  bequests  to  John, 
son  of  Sir  John  Pretyman;  Richd.  Pretyman,  of  Griston,  and  his  children,  Richard  and  William  ; 
George  .Harrison  ;  Susan  Bassino,  of  Essex,  his  kinswoman  ;  lands  and  manor  to  George  Prety¬ 
man,  of  Baeton,  his  kinsman.  Died  unm.  and  s.p. ;  bur.  at  Old  Newton,  30  April  1659. 

2  P 


306 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


A 


1.  Johane,  2.  Elizabeth,  bap.  at  Bacton, 
living  1543 ;  mar.,  20  Oct.  1569, 
1543.  Edmd.  Colville. 


3.  Alice,  bap.  at  Bacton 
1545  ;  P  mar.  Wm.  Dixon. 


4.  Elynor,  bap.  at  Bacton,  1546  ;  5.  Anne,  bap.  at  Bacton,  21  July 

mar.  Geo.  Smythe,  of  Bacton.  1554 ;  mar.  there,  9  Oct.  1675, 

Roger  Symonds. 


John  Pretyman,  Sen.,  of  Howlots,: 
in  Bacton,  1563.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
8  Sept.  1588,  probt.  1593  ;  lands  to 
his  brother.  Bapt.  1540;  bur.  in 
Bacton  Church ;  monumental  brass. 


■  Katherine,  relict  of 
.  .  .  Duncon ;  sur¬ 
vived  2d  husband. 
Bur.  at  Bacton,  21 
Aug.  1601. 


William  Pretyman,  Jun.,  of  Howlots,  2d  son  ;=j=Margaret,  dau.  of  Wm.  Longe 


bapt.  26  Jan.  1547 ;  bought  Manor  of  Cotton 
Bresvvorth  ;  admitted  to  his  brother’s  lands 
1603.  Will,  3  July  1617,  Arch.  Sudb.  Inq. 
p.m.  15  Jac. ;  bur.  at  Bacton,  4  July  1617. 


and  Jane  Pretyman,  of  Cot¬ 
ton  ;  bapt.  1551  ;  mar.  at  Bac¬ 
ton,  1570  ;  bur.  at  Narford, 
Norff.,  1628. 


Margaret,  sole  dau.  and  heir,  bapt.  at  Bacton  23  Jan.  1565  ;  mar.  there,  21  Nov.  1583,  George  Har¬ 
rison,  of  Debenham.  See  Chancery  Proc.,  2  Eliz.,  H.  iv,  50.  Released  1603  her  father’s  lands  to 
Wm.  Pretyman,  her  uncle. 


Charles  Pretyman,  4th  son,  of  Cotton  and  Bar-= 
ton  Bendish.  Will,  nuncp.  17  Oct.,  prob.26Nov. 
1626;  bapt.  atThorndon,  13  Nov.  1686;  d.  1626. 


-Thomasiue,  dau.  of  Wm.  Thurbarne,  of  Cotton;  mar. 
there  29  Jan.  1617.  She  renupt.  Edvvd.  Redmayne 
before  Oct.  1628,  and  died  1629. 


Margaret,  bapt.  at  Cotton  16  May  1619 ;  mar.  1st, 
Francis  Shepherd,  of  Cotton  and  Mendlesham, 
2  Feb.  1636  (lie.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.),  and  2d.  circa 
1654,  .  .  .  Quarles;  ob.  1663. 


Susanna,  bapt.  at  Cotton  16  Aug.  1620  ;  mar.  before 
1639  Augustine  Messenger,  of  Hackford  and  Whit- 
well  Manor,  Norf.  ;  died  6  Apr.  1653  ;  M.I.  in  Whit- 
well  Church. 


Margaret,  only  dau.,  bapt.  at 
Bacton  24  Feb.  1592 ;  bur. 
1617. 


William  Pretyman,  2d  son, 
entered  Caius  Coll.,  Camb., 
1590 ;  admitted  Gray’s  Inn, 
1600.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  7 
July,  prov.  8  Nov.  1617,  men¬ 
tions  Richard,  Charles  and 
Peter,  his  brothers.  Bapt.  at 
Bacton,  8  July  1576  ;  ob.  be¬ 
fore  8  Nov.  1617,  s.p. 


Richard  Pretyman,  3d  son,  of  Nar¬ 
ford  and  Griston,  co.  Norf. ;  left  Old 
Newton  circa  1626  ;  presented  to 
Diss,  1647.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
2  July  1660.  His  sons  named  in 
Will  of  Robt.  Pretyman,  of  Old 
Newton,  1659.  Bapt.  at  Thorndon, 
1581 ;  bur.  at  Hilboro’,  1660. 


Margaret, 

Sara, 

Anne,  bapt. 

bapt.  at 

bapt. 

at  Bacton, 

Bacton  10 

at 

1611 ;  mar. 

Oct.  1605  ; 

Nar¬ 

Thos.  Scott, 
ofFornham 

married 

ford, 

Edmund, 

Dec. 

St.  Martin, 

Bishop  of 

1630; 

widower, 

Thorn¬ 

bur. 

1636,  Lie. 

don. 

1632. 

C.C.,  Nor. 

Elizabeth,  1st  wife, 
bur.  at  Bacton  7 
April  1616. 

Anne,  2d  wife,  mar. 
before  1624;  bur.  at 
Hilboro,  Norf.,  30 
Jan.  1663. 


Elizabeth- 
Wilson,  2d 
wife,  sur¬ 
vived  her 
husband 
&  is  nam¬ 
ed  in  his 
Will. 


=Peter  Pretyman,  son  and  heir,  of  Howlots, = 
Bacton,  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Cotton ;  fine, 
15  Jac.  ;  of  Barton  Bendish,  1621;  named 
in  the  Norfolk  Yisitn.,  1664.  Will,  P.C.C. 
27  Goare,  7  Aug.  1636,  prov.  9  Feb.  1637. 
Inq.  p.m.  12  Car.  George,  his  only  son, 
then  set.  21.  Bapt.  at  Bacton,  1572 ;  ob.  at 
Cotton,  Aug.  1636. 


Anne,  1st  wife,  dau.  of 
Thomas  Harwell,  of 
Felsham,  mar.  circ.  9 
Aug.  1603.  For  settle¬ 
ments  see  Inq.  p.m.  of 
Wm. Pretyman,  15  Jac. 
See  Harwell  ped.  Suff. 
Yisitn.  1664  ;  died  be¬ 
fore  1620. 


George  Pretyman, of  Howlots,  Bacton, only  son  1636 ; 
admitted  to  ancient  family  copyhold  ;  Lord  of  the 
Manor  of  Cotton,  Livery,  15  Car.  I.  His  cousin  Ro¬ 
bert  Pretyman  left  him  Manor  of  Old  Newton,  1659 ; 
entailed  his  property  1658  on  Peter,  his  heir ;  rem. 
to  his  sons,  Thomas  and  Tyrell  ;  20  Nov.  1682, 
docked  entail  in  favour  of  Peter  and  his  son  George ; 
entered  Heralds’  Visitn.  Will  14  March  1686,  pro. 
22  Aug.  1688,  Arch.  Sudb.  Born  1607;  died  18 
July  1688 ;  bur.  in  Bacton  Church.  M.I.  Arms  of 
Pretyman  and  Tyrell. 

See 


=  Elizabeth1 
Wilson,  of 
. .  co.  Suff., 
mar.  prior 
to  1633; 
died  be¬ 
fore  1640; 
left  issue 
two  sons. 


B. 


Susan,  dau.  of 
Thos.  Tyrell,  of 
Gipping  Pk. ;  born 
1607 ;  mar.  prior  to 
1640;  died  21  Apr. 

1674 ;  bur.  in  Bac¬ 
ton  Ch.  M.I.  Left 
issue  one  son  and 
five  daus.  Vide 
Pedigree.=j= 

A 

Pretyman  of  Wetherden. 


Mary,  only 
dau.,  bapt.  at 
Bacton,  1605 ; 
mar. Tristram 
D’lmond,  of 
Upwell,  co. 
Norfolk ;  died 
1663;  bur.  in 
Upwell  Ch. 
Brass. 


Rev.  William  Pretyman,  M.A.,=pMary  Colvile,  of 
Rector  of  Hilboro’,  co.  Norfolk,  Somerton;  mar. 
eldest  son.  Paid  first  fruits  26  24  Aug.  1638, 
June  1635;  licence  to  preach  4  lie.  C.C.,  Nor.; 
Aug.1640.  Bap.  at  Bacton, 8  Nov.  bur.  at  Hilboro’ 
1609  ;  bur.  at  Hilboro’,  21  Dec.  31  March  1677. 
1681. 


Richard  Pretyman,  of  Lon-= 
don,  2nd  son ;  sometime  of 
New  Buckenham,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk.  Bap.  at  Bacton,  15  Nov. 
1610  ;  bur.  at  South  Lynn,  6 
Apr.  1692. 


:.  .  .  .,  1st  wife,  died  before 
1663.  Hemar.secondty,  Re¬ 
becca,  by  licence,  relict  of 
Richard  Fuller,  of  Upwell, 
co.  Norf.,  at  St.  Cath.  Cree, 
London,  1663. 


Ralphe  and  Henrie, twins. 
Bapt.  at  Bacton,  13  Jan. 
1624  ;  scholars  at  Lynn  ; 
drowned  whilst  bathing 
13  July  1636 ;  bur.  at 
Narford. 


John  Pretyman,  of  London,  merchant,  1st  son.  Will=Anne,  living 
25  July  1669,  pro.  5  Aug.,  P.C.C.  Coke  99;  mentions  1669 ;  execu- 
father,  mother,  Thomas,  his  brother,  Anne,  wife  ;  lands  trix  of  her 
in  Virginia.  Bapt.  at  Hilboro’  1639;  bur.  in  Trinity  husband’s 
Church,  Minories,  Midx.  Will. 


Thomas  Pretyman,  of= 
Upwell,  co.  Norfolk; 
living  1675.  Bap.  at 
Hilboro,’  15  April 
1645. 


=Mary,  relict  of  Phil. 
Fetch,  of  Upwell, 
who  ob.  1670.  Bur. 
at  Hilboro’,  6  Dec. 
1675. 


Richard,  2d  son, 
bapt.  at  Hilboro’ 
1643  ;  not  men¬ 
tioned  in  Will  of 
his  brother,  1669. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


307 


B 


Peter  Pretyman,  of  Bacton,  eldest  son,  lived1 
sometime  at  Lynn.  Signed  Heralds’  Visitn. 
Norf.,  1664  ;  held  first  Court,  Manor  of  Cotton, 
1688 ;  mar.  sett,  dated  10  Nov.  1658,  at 
Orwell  Park.  Bom,  1633  ;  died,  6  Oct.  1705 ; 
bur.  in  Bacton  Church.  M.I.  Arms  of 
Pretyman  and  Baron. 


Frances, 
living 
1664; 
bur.  at 
Felsham. 


Susan, 
bur.  at 
S.  Lynn 
14  Jan. 
1665. 


Mary,  an 
infant, 
bur.  at  S. 
Lynn 
1667. 


H 


:Frances,  2nd  dau.  and  coh.  of  Samuel  Baron,  M.D., 
of  Lynn,  co.  Norfolk,  grandson  of  Petrus  Baron 
D.D.  (a  Huguenot  of  Etampes,  France,  who  came  to 
England.  1547,  Lady  Margaret,  Professor,  Cam¬ 
bridge;  pedigree  Heralds’  Yisitn.  Norfolk  1664). 
Died,  22  Dec.  1666  ;  bur.  in  South  Lynn  Church. 
M.I.  Arms,  Pretyman  and  Baron. 


Thomas  Pretyman,  of^Dorothy,  dau. 


Sporle,  Norf.,  2nd  son  ; 
mentioned  in  entail  of 
Bacton  property,  1658 ; 
“  of  Sporle,’  vide  Close 
Roll  1680;  died  1716; 
bur.  in  Sporle Ch.  M.I. 


Elizabeth, 
an  infant, 
bur.  1666 
at  S.  Lynn 
Church. 


Thomas; two  Dorothy, bapt.  at  Sporle  1678;  mar. 
sons,  bapt.  at  at  Athlington,  Suff.,  1709,  Thomas 
Sporle  1680  Nelson,  great  uncle  of  Horatio, 
and  1683.  Lord  Nelson;  died  31  Jan.  1711  ; 

bur.  in  chancel  Sporle  Ch.  M.I. 


Anne,  bap.  at  Sporle 
1684 ;  mar.  at  Sporle, 
Robert  Dunham,  of 
Bridgeliam  co.  Norf., 
1705. 


of  John  Frere, 
of  Finning- 
hamHall,  Ar.; 
bap.  1649  ; 
mar.  1677  at 
Finningham. 


William, bapt. 
atSporlel688. 

John,  bapt.  at 
Sporle  1691. 


George  Pretyman,  Sen.,  of  Bacton,  only  son  ;  admitted1 
Trin.  Coll.,  Camb.,  1679 ;  Lord  of  the  Manors  of  Cotton 
and  Old  Newton  ;  first  Court  Cotton  1698;  purchased, 
30  April  1703,  Manors  of  Bacton  and  Bresworth  New- 
hall,  from  Henry  Pretyman ;  1691,  raised  troop  of 
Suff.  Light  Horse  ;  sold  moiety  of  Redisham  estate, 
1706.  His  Will  12  Aug.  1727,  pro.  25  Jan.  1728,  C.C. 
Norf.  ;  mentions  sons  George  and  Peter,  and  grand¬ 
sons  Peter  and  George,  sons  of  Peter  Pretyman.  Born 
1659;  aged  5  1664,  vide  Heralds’  Visitn.  Norf.;  died 
3  Sep.  1727  ;  bur.  in  Bacton  Church.  M.I.  Arms, 
Pretyman  and  Garneys.  Portrait  at  Riby  Hall. 


:Elizabeth,  dau.  and 
coh.  of  Edward  Gar¬ 
neys,  of  Redisham 
Hall,  co.  Suff.  Born 
1659 ;  bapt.  at,Hom- 
ersfield ;  mar.  c. 
1683 ;  portrait  at 
Riby;  died  25  Oct. 
1689  ;  bur.  in  Bac¬ 
ton  Church.  M.I. 
Arms,  Pretyman 
and  Garneys. 


Rev.  Rich.  Pretyman, 
M.A.,  1st  son  ;  Fellow 
of  Caius  Coll.,  Camb.; 
M.A.  1702  ;  Rector  of 
Cotton,  Frostenden 
cum  Thrandeston  and 
Thwayte,  co.  Suff. ; 
Rector  of  Finning¬ 
ham,  1723-8.  Bap.  at 
Sporle,  1677 ;  bur.  at  j 
Finningham,  2  Aug. 
1728. 


nr 


=Pleasance,  Thomas  Pre-=rEliza- 


dau.  of 

tyman 

Jun., 

beth, 

Edmund 

of  Sporle ; 

mar. 

Mayor,  of 

bapt. 

1686; 

c. 

Thwaite ; 

died  15  Oct. 

1712. 

mar.  c. 

1724;  bur.  in 

1715; 

Sporle 

Ch. 

dead  1743. 

M.I. 

1 

Elizabeth,  bapt. 

1 

Anne,  bapt. 

at  Sporle 

1713. 

at 

Sporle, 

1722. 

George  Pretyman,  Jun.,= 
of  Bacton,  1st  son ;  Lord 
of  Manors  of  Bacton,  Old 
Newton,  Cotton,  &  New- 
hall,  Bresworth  ;  rebuilt 
Bacton  Manor  house  on 
new  site  ;  portrait  atRiby. 
Will,  dated  2  Jan.  1 732, 
pro.  5  May  1733,  P.C.C. 
Price  158.  Bap.  at  Bac¬ 
ton,  23  July  1685  ;  died  15 
Feb.  1732 ;  bur.  in  Bacton 
Church.  M.I.  Arms, 
Pretyman  and  Pistor. 


rJane,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Rev. 
John  Pistor,  of  Claydon,  co. 
Suff.,  &  Jane  sister  of  John 
Purrough,  of  Ipswich.  Por¬ 
trait  at  Riby.  Mar.  settle¬ 
ments  9  Aug.  1711.  Will  11 
June  1733,  pro.  20  Oct.  1738, 
Arch.  Sud.;  manors  to  Baron, 
lands  to  George,  her  sons  ; 
mentions  her  brother-in- 
law  Peter’s  sons,  George 
and  Peter.  Died  6  Aug.  1738; 
bur.  in  Bacton  Ch.  M.I. 
Arms,  Pretyman  and  Pistor. 


— 1 - 1 

Eliz.,  Peter  Pretyman,  of=f=Margaret,  dau.  of  Wm. 
bur.  London,  merchant,  Cutlor,  of  Westm.,  and 
at  2nd  son,  of  Bassing- 
Bac-  hall  St. ;  traded  with 
ton  theLevant.  His  Will 
18  6  Aug.  1720 ;  pi'o. 

June  1  Dec.  1730,  P.C.C. 

1686.  Auber  338.  Bap.  at 
Bacton,  10  April 
1688  ;  bur.  at  St. 

Michael, Bassisshaw, 

London,  19  Nov. 

1730.  Portrait  at 
Riby-Hall. 


Cutlor,  of  Westm.,  and 
Ruth,  his  wife ;  spec, 
lie.  at  St.  Margaret, 
Westm.,  27  Nov.  1717. 
Her  letters  of  adrnon. 
10  Aug.  1739,  P.C.C. 
Henchman.  Mentions 
“  only  ”  children  Peter 
and  George.  Bur.  at 
St.  Stephen’s,  Cole¬ 
man  St.,  London,  21 
Dec.  1738. 


George 

Pleas- 

Frere  Pre¬ 

ance, 

tyman, only 

only 

son ;  born 

dau. ; 

1716.  De¬ 

mar.  at 

visee  of 

Finn¬ 

Anne  Frere 

ingham, 

1728  ;  died 

1742, 

young,  af¬ 

John 

ter  1730, 

Pykar- 

s.p. 

ell. 

Baron  Pretyman,  of  Bacton, 1st  son,=Arabellla,  only 
admit.  Caius  Coll.,  Camb.,  1730 ;  child  of  Mau- 
Middle  Temple,  1738;  Lord  of  Man-  rice  Shelton,  of 
ors  of  Bacton,  Old  Newton,  Cotton,  Barningham 
and  Bresworthe,  New  Hall;  1741,  andWesthorpe 
High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk ;  dissipated  Manor,  after- 
the  family  fortune  ;  Cotton  Manor  wards  of  Bury ; 
sold  at  his  death.  Will  8  Mar.  1757,  relict  of  Thos. 
Arch.  Sud.,  Dalton  II 283,  legacy  to  Taylor, of  Wes- 
George  Pretyman,  son  of  George  thorpe.  Mar. 
Pretyman, of  Bury,  his  cousin.  Born  at  Bacton, 
24  Feb.  1712 ;  bapt.  at  Bury,  25  Septem.  1738  ; 
March  1712;  died  15  Feb.  1758,  died  1761. 
s.p. ;  bur.  in  Bacton  Church. 


Jane,  Rev.  George  Pre- 
anin-  tyman,  2nd  son; 
fant  ;  1746,  mentioned 

bur.  in  deed  (at  Orwell 
at  Park)  as  Clerk  of 
Bac-  Croxton,  co.  N  orf . 
ton,  Bap.  at  Bury, 
17  1713;  died  160ct. 

June  1756,  s.p.,  hisbro- 
1716.  ther  being  his 
heir ;  bur.  in  Bac¬ 
ton  Church.  Por¬ 
trait  at  Riby. 


Peter  Prety-  George  Pretyman,  2d  son,  of 
man,  1st  son ;  Bacton  &  bury.  In  1658  left 
lived  with  his  sole  surviving  member  of  this 
cousin  Baron,  branch  of  the  family;  succeed- 
whoin  he  pre-  ed  to  manors  of  Bacton,  Old 
deceased.  Newton  &  New  Hall,  Bres- 
Bap.  at  St.  worthe,  with  remnant  of  fam- 
Michael  Bas-  ily  lands  as  heir  of  Baron  and 
sisshaw,  Lon-  Geo.,  his  cousins ;  Alderman  & 
don,  21  Nov.  ChiefMagistrate  of  Bury, 1773; 
1721  ;  died  portrait  at  Riby.  Born  Oct. 
s.p.  before  1722 ; bap.  at  St.  Michael  Bas- 
1758.  sisshaw,  Lond.,  7  Nov.;  bur.  at 

Finningham,  14  Dec.  1810. 


Susan,  da. 
of  John 
Hubbard, 
of  Finn¬ 
ingham  ; 
&  Kather¬ 
ine  Todd. 
Bn.  1728; 
died  21 
Nov.1807 ; 
buried  at 
Finning¬ 
ham. 


Right  Rev.  George  Pretyman-Tomlinc,  D.D.,  S.T.P.,  F.R.S.,  Bishop=j=Elizabeth, 


of  Winchester,  1st  son  ;  educated  at  Bury ;  entered  Pembroke  Coll., 
Camb.,  1771  ;  Senior  Wrangler  and  first  Smith’s  prizeman,  1772 ; 
Fellow,  1773  ;  tutor  to  Hon.  William  Pitt,  to  whom,  when  Chan¬ 
cellor  of  Exchequor,  1782,  he  became  Secretary ;  Canon  of  Westm., 
1784-7  ;  Dean  of  St.  Paul’s,  1787  ;  Bishop  of  Lincoln,  Jan.  1787  ; 
Mr.  Pitt’s  candidate  for  the  Primacy,  1805 ;  translated  to  Win. 
Chester,  Aug.  1820.  Portrait  at  Riby.  On  death  of  his  father, 
1810,  succeeded  to  family  manors  of  Bacton,  etc.  Under  Will  of 
Marmaduke  Tomline,  June  1803,  inherited  Riby  Hall,  taking  the 
surname  of  Tomline.  On  23  March  1823  returned  heir  male 
general  of  Sir  Thomas  Pretyman,  Bart.,  of  Greenes  Farme,  Line., 
by  Sheriff’s  Jury  of  Haddingtonre.  Born  at  Bury,  9  Oct.  1750; 
died  14  Nov.  1827 ;  bur.  in  Winchester  Cathedral.  M.I.  Will 
pro.  Nov.  1827. 


1st  dau.  & 
coheir  of 
Thomas 
Maltby,  of 
N  orwich& 
Germains, 
Bucks. 
Bornl758; 
mar.3Sep. 
1784 ;  bur. 
13  June 
1826  in  St. 
Margt.’s, 
Westm. 


- ! - 

The  Ven.  Archdeacon = 
John  Pretyman,  D.D., 
S.T.P.,  2nd  son,  Arch¬ 
deacon  &  Precentor  of 
Lincoln ;  presented  by 
Mr.  Pitt, c.  1790, to  Pre¬ 
bend  of  Norwich  ;  Pem¬ 
broke  College,  Camb. ; 
Rector  of  Shotley,1784, 
after  of  Sherrington  & 
Winwick,  co.  Bucks. 
Bap.  at  Bury,  26  Oct. 
1752;  died5  June  1817 ; 
bur.  in  Lincoln  Cath. 
M.I. 


= Anne,  4th  da.& 
eventually  coh. 
of  Henry  Ked- 
ington,  of  Sud¬ 
bury,  Suff.,  sis¬ 
ter  of  Robert  of 
Rougham  Hall. 
Born  21  Jan. 
1759 ;  mar.  at 
Sudbury,  15 
July  1784;  died 
29  July  1810; 
bur. in  Norwich 
Cath.  M.I. 


See  C. 


/N 

Pretyman  of  Buckinghamshire. 


Susan, 
only  da. 
Bap.  at 
Bury, 
Dec. 
1755; 
mar. 
George 
Hub¬ 
bard, of 
Bury; 
died 
Sept. 
1830; 
bur.  at 
Bury. 


— i 

Baron, 
an  in¬ 
fant  ; 
bur.  at 
Finn- 
ing- 
ham 
1763. 


308 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


C 


William  Edward  Tomline, : 
F.R.S.,  S.S.,lst  son,  of  Riby 
Hall,co.Linc. ;  Westminster 
School;  Trin.  Coll.,  Camb. ; 
M.P.  for  Truro,  1826-30; 
Minehead,  1830;  Hon.  Col. 
R.N.  Line.  Militia;  succeed¬ 
ed  to  family  manors  of  Bac- 
ton,  etc.  Born  27  Feb.  1787 ; 
died  28  May  1836 ;  bur.  in 
South  Audley  Chapel,  Lond. 


I - 

Frances, 
of  King’s 
Bromley. 
Born 
1812;  d. 
unmar. 
1839;  bur. 
at  Riby. 


Mary,  of 

King’s 

Bromley. 

Born 

1815; 

bur.  at 

Riby 

1839. 


John,  3rd  son,  Lieut,  in 
Foot  Reg.  Born  1616; 
died  unmar. ;  bur.  at  St. 
Nicholas  Ch.,  Brighton. 


=Frauces,  dau. 
&  sole  heir  of 
John  Amler,  of 
Ford  Hall,  Sa¬ 
lop,  and  Sarah, 
his  wife ;  mar. 
18  April  1811  ; 
died  30  Apr. 
1816  ;  bur.  in 
Riby  Church. 
M.I. 


Rev.  Canon  George  Thomas- 
Pretyman,  L.L.B.,  2nd  son; 
Chancellor  and  Canon  Resid. 
of  Lincoln  ;  Preb.  ofWinches- 
ter ;  Eton,  1807  ;  Trin.  Coll., 
Camb.,  1810;  L.L.B.,  1814; 
Rector  of  Wheathampstead  & 
Harpenden,  1814;  Yicar  of 
Chalfont,  St.  Giles,  co.  Ox¬ 
ford.  Born  5  Apl.  1790 ;  died 
14  June  1859  ;  bur.  at  Wheat¬ 
hampstead.  M.I. 


-Amelia,  3rd  dau. 
of  Christopher 
Tower, of  Hunts- 
more  Park,  and 
Weald  Hall,  co. 
Essex.  Mar.  25 
May  1814,  at  St. 
Margaret’s, 
Westm. ;  d.  June 
1867  ;  bur.  at 
Wheathamp¬ 
stead. 


1.  Alicia  =j=  Rev. Rich. Pretyman, =f=2.  Harriet, 


Porter, 

mar. 

June 

1840; 

died 

1848. 


3rd  son  ;  Canon  Re¬ 
sid.,  Precentor of  Lin¬ 
coln.  1817,  Eton  and 
Trin.  Coll.,  Camb.  ; 
Rector  of  Middleton 
Stoney, Oxford,  1819. 
Born  21  March  1793  ; 
died  25  March  1866 ; 
bur.  at  Middleton 
Stoney. 


da.  of  Rev. 
Frederick, 
Apthorpe, 
M.A., 
Preb.  of 
Lincoln. 
Mar.1849 ; 
died  11 
Feb.  1877; 
bur.  in 
Camb. 
Cemetery. 


Emily,  1st 
dau. ;  bom 
1815;  mar. 
1833,  Geo. 
K  n  o  1 1  i  s 
Jarvis,  of 
Doddiug- 
ton  Hall, 
co.  Line. ; 
died6Mar. 
1840 ;  bur. 
in  St. 
Mary’s, 
Dover. 


Caroline,  2nd 
daugh.,  born 
1816  ;  mar. 
1861,  Major 
William  Ogil- 
vy,  69th  Reg., 
2nd  son  of 
Rear  -  Admi- 
ralSirWilliam 
Ogilvy,of  Bal- 
dovan,co.For- 
far,  Baronet, 
R.N.  ;  died 
1895. 


Elizabeth 
Tower,  3rd 
dau.,  born 
1824  ;  mar. 
1851,  Wil¬ 
liam  Ham¬ 
ilton  Yat- 
man,  J.P., 
of  High 
Grove,  co. 
Glouc.;died 
1898  ;  bur. 
at  Tetbury. 


George  Tomliue,  F.R.S.,  of  Riby  Hall  and 
Orwell  Park,  co.  Suff.,  1st  son  ;  commission 
in  Life  Guards;  Hon.  Col.  S.  Line.  Militia; 
M.P.  for  Sudbury  1840,  Shrewsbury  1841-7 
and  1852-68,  Great  Grimsby  1868-74 ; 
High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk,  1832,  and  Lincoln, 
1852.  Born  6  March  1813 ;  succeeded  to 
family  manors  of  Bacton,  etc. ;  died  un¬ 
mar.  25  Aug.  1889 ;  ashes  deposited  in  Riby 
Church.  Left  his  cousin,  Capt.  Ernest  Q. 
Pretyman,  R.A.,  heir.  Will,  May  1889. 


William  Thomas  Tomline, 
of  Whitehall  Gardens,  2nd 
son ;  commission  in  10th 
Hussars.  Born23Mar.l814; 
died  s.p.  ;  bur.  18  May  1883, 
at  Eastbourne  Cemetery  (L 
324).  Mar.  Lady  Fanny 
Charlotte,  4th  dau.  of  Henry 
Yiscount  Gage ;  predeceas¬ 
ed  her  husband  ;  bur.  at 
Eastbourne  Cemetery  1883. 


Arabella,  4th  dau. 
born  1826  ;  mar. 
18551,  William 
Williams,  2nd  son 
of  Sir  John  Wil¬ 
liams,  of  Bodel- 
wyddan,  co,  Flint, 
Bart. ;  died  1861. 


Richard,  1st  son ; 
Eton  and  Trin. 
Coll.,  Camb.;  mar. 
but  died,  aged  49, 
s.p.,  24  August 
1889 ;  buried  at 
Ramsgate. 


William  Edward, 
bom  31  July 
1850 ;  Eton  and 
Emanuel  Coll., 
Camb.;  B.A. 1873; 
died  unmar.  Feb. 
1878 ;  buried  in 
Camb.  Cemetery. 


Rev.  George  Pretyman,  M.A.,  1st  son ;  Rector  of  Great  Carl¬ 
ton,  Line. ;  Baliol  Coll.,  Oxf.  ;  New  Inn  Hall ;  M.A.  1844,  when 
presented  to  Great  Carlton.  Born  at  Wheathampstead,  5  Jan. 
1818 ;  died  unmar.,  6  Apr.  1850 ;  bur.  in  chancel  of  Great 
Carlton  Church.  Monumental  Brass. 


Col.  William  Pretyman,  late  60th  Rifles, = 
3rd  son ;  commission  in  33rd  Regt, 
1838  ;  served  in  Bulgaria  and  Crimea  ; 
Brigade-Major  of  Light  Division  ;  pre¬ 
sent  at  Alma,  Inkerman,  and  fall  of 
Sevastopol ;  took  part  in  both  assaults 
on  the  Redan  ;  ment.  in  despatches ; 
medal  with  3  clasps  ;  commanded  4th 
batt.  60th  Rifles  ;  retired  1865.  Born 
5  April  1822  ;  died  5  Oct.  1894.  Bur. 
at  Wheathampstead.  M.I. 


Geraldine  Eliza¬ 
beth,  3rd  dau.  of 
Adam  Newman, 
of  Dromore,  co. 
Cork.  Married 
1865  ;  living  at 
Ennismore 
Gardens,  Lon¬ 
don,  1904. 


Rev.  Canon  Frederick  Pretyman,  B.D.,  J.P.,; 
2nd  son ;  Rector  of  Great  Carlton,  Line. ; 
matric.  at  Baliol,  1838  ;  Fellow  of  Magdalen, 
1842-58 ;  B.D.,  1852 ;  Canon  of  Lincoln, 
1873  ;  late  Rural  Dean  ;  presented  to  Great 
Carlton  1850,  resigned  1891.  Born  21  Oct. 
1819 ;  died  at  Great  Carlton  Lodge,  14  Feb. 
1905  ;  bur.  at  Great  Carlton.  M.I. 


: Georgina  Elizabeth,  2nd  dau. 
of  Edward  Knight,  of  Chaw- 
ton  House,  Hants,  and  God- 
mersham  Park,  Kent,  D.L., 
J.P.  ;  mar.  at  Chawton,  31 
Aug.  1858  ;  died  26  May 
1864|;  bur.  at  Great  Carlton. 
M.I. 


Capt.  Arthur’  C.  Prety¬ 
man, of  Haughley  Park, 
Suff., J.P. ,4th  son;  com¬ 
mission  in  25th  Reg. 
K.O.B.;  later  74th  Reg. 
Born  28  Jan.  1830; 
died  21  June  1898  ;  bur. 
at  Wetherden. 


Amelia 
Mary, only 
dau.,  born 
1862 ;  died 
14  June 
1879 ;  bur. 
at  Great 
Carlton. 


Herbert  Ed¬ 
ward,  Lieut. 
3rd  Battalion 
Gren.  Guards, 
com.l885;bn. 
at  Gt.  Carlton 
1863;  died  un¬ 
mar.  19  July 
1891;  bur.  at 
Gt.  Carlton. 


Ernest  George  Pretyman,  M.P.,  1st  son,  of  Orwell=rLady  Beatrice  Ad- 


Park,  co.  Suff.,  &  Riby  Hall,  co.  Line.,  J.P.  andD.L. 
Eton,  &  in  1880  entered  Royal  Artillery ;  Capt. 
1888 :  resigned  1889,  on  becoming  heir  to  his  cousin, 
George  Tomline,  to  whose  estates  and  Manors 
(Bacton,  Old  Newton,  Newhall,  Bresworth,  etc.) 
he  succeeded;  Hon.  Col.  1st  Suff.  Vol.  Artillery ;  re¬ 
presents  (1904)  WoodbridgeDivn.,  Suff.,  for  which 
he  was  elected  1895  and  1900 ;  Civil  Lord  of  the 
Admiralty,  Nov.  1900 ;  Financial  Sec.  to  the 
Admiralty,  Oct.  1903.  Living  1904. 


me,  eldest  dau.  of 
the  Right  Honble. 
Geo.  Cecil  Bridge- 
man,  4th  Earl  of 
Bradford,  P .  C . 
Married  28  June 
1894,  at  St.  Paul, 
Knightbridge. 
Living  1904. 


=Mary,  dau.  & 
coh.  of  Henry 
Baxter,  of  Id- 
nes,  co.  For¬ 
far.  Mar.  26 
Oct.  1858  Giv¬ 
ing  at  Haugh¬ 
ley  Park  1904. 


Geraldine  Amelia, 
only  child.  Mar. 
her  cousin,  John 
Robert  Bramston 
Newman,  of  Dro¬ 
more,  co.  Cork  ; 
living  1904. 


Emily 

Agnes, 

Arabella, 

Arabella, 

2nd 

3rd  dau., 

1st  dau., 

dau., 

living 

living 

living 

1904. 

1904. 

1904. 

“1 

George  Thomas,  1st  son,  bom  7 
April  1862  ;  died  6  Feb.  1870;  bur. 
at  Wetherden. 


George  Marcus  Tom¬ 
line  Pretyman, 1st  son, 
born  23  Apr.  1895. 


Ida  Beatrice, 
1st  dau.,  born 
5  Apr.  1896. 


Marjory  Eliza¬ 
beth,  2nd  dau., 
born  1  May  1897. 


Herbert  Ernest,  2nd 
son,  born  19  June 
1900. 


Winter  Frederic,  3rd 
son,  born  17  October 
1901. 


Frederic  Henry  Pretyman,  2nd 
and  only  surv.  son,  born  27  Sep. 
1875  ;  living  1904  unmar. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTOV. 


309 


$rrtgman  of  Cfjorution. 

John  Pratyman,  Senr.,  of  Cotton,  co.  Suffolk,  son  of  William  Pratyman,  Senr.,  of  Bacton,  so  styled,  1499,  in 
Cotton  Manor  Rolls,  where  grant  of  manor  lands  to  himself  and  father  is  enrolled  Sept.  1476 ;  died  circa  1606. 


William  Pratyman,  sworn  of  John  Pratyman,  of  Bacton  and  Wyverston,  set.  12  and  more  1497,  styled  Senr.: 
Cotton  tithing  Oct.  1481.  1517.  Will  9  March  1644,  Arch.  Snd.  433  Longe.  Bur.  at  Bacton  14  April  1644. 

Laud  in  Cotton  to  him  and  son  John,  1609.  Vide  Cotton  Manor  Rolls. 


= Margaret,  dau.  of  Hugh 
Smythe,of  Cotton  ;bur. 
at  Bacton  4  Aug.  1540. 


Thos.  Pratyman,  1526  John  Pratyman,  of  Bacton,  Yeoman,  held  Knight’s=j=Margaret,  dau.  of  John  Frcre,  of  Wickham 


Capellanus  of  Bacton, 
Rector  6  May  1531 ; 
died  circa  1538. 


fee.  Will  1  Feb.  1559,  Arch  Sud.  75  Pavnter,  to  sons 
John,  William,  and  Thomas.  Bur.  in  Bacton  Ch., 
26  Feb.  1559.  Inq.  p.m.  1  Eliz.  John  heir  set.  22. 


Skeith  ;  mentioned  in  her  father’s  will,  1530,  as 
mar.  Her  will,  2  May  1569,  to  sons  William 
and  Thomas.  Bur.  in  Bacton  Church  5  May  1569. 


Joan,  only 
dau.,  mar. 
John  Pye. 


Katherine,  bap. 
at  Bacton  1547 ; 
mar.  .  .  .  What- 
lock. 

Agnes,  bur.  at 
Bacton  1558. 

Julyan,  mar.  . . . 
Boldero. 


John  Pratyman,  1st  son,  of  Hestley= 
Hall;  lord  of  manor  of  Thorndon,pur. 
4  Eliz., and  Brames  Hall,  Wethering- 
sett,  co.  Suff.  Will,9Mch.,pr.  13  Mch. 
1611,  Cur.  Epi.  Norw.  171  Harman. 
Lres.  Admon.  to  gr’son  John  3  April 
1616,  Norw.  Died  at  Bylaugh,  nr.  Bill- 
ingford,  Norf.,  10  Mch.  1611 ;  b.  1537. 
Inq.  p.m.  8  Jas.,  son  John  dead,  gr’son 
John  heir  of  both,  set.  21  yrs.  3  mths. 


^Margaret,  dau. 
of  Nichs.Garn- 
ham(Gernoun) 
and  Elizth.,  his 
wife  (whose 
Will  1569,  pr. 
1572,  to  Thos.& 
John,  gr’sons). 
Bur.  at  Thorn- 
don  8  Jan. 1596. 


William,  2nd  son,  of 
Westhorpe,  mr.  Margt. 
Harte,  of  same  1563, 
lie.  C.C.  Norw.  She  bur. 
at  Wetheringsett  1601 ; 
he  died  c.  1606,  leaving 
issue  3  sons  and  4  daus. 
William  bap.  1574,  John 
1576,  Thomas  1583. 


Thos.  Pratyman,  3d  son,= 
of  Bacton ;  sub.  1588  to 
defence  against  Arma¬ 
da.  Will,  C.E.  Norwich 

1600,  to  sons,  Thomas, 
Robert,  and  John .  Bap. 
at  Bacton  1643 ;  bur. 

1601.  Inq.  p.m.  42  Eliz. 
Thomas  heir  set.  40. 


Rachel,  sister 
of  Thos.  Har¬ 
well,  of  Fel- 
sham.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb. 
1626 to  grand¬ 
sons  John, 
Henry  and 
Thomas. 


See  A. 


Anne,  1st  dau.,  Elizabeth,  bap.  Gracia,  bap.  Margarita,  John  Pretyman,  of  Cranworth,  co.: 

bap.  at  Thorn-  at  Tliorndon  at  Thorndon  bap.  at  Thorn-  Norf.  ;  Ires.  adm.  to  father,  goods, 

don  1562;  mar.  1564;  married  1565;  mar.  don  1568;  etc.,  Cranworth ;  lands  Thorndon, 

1584  John  Ga-  1584  Fras.  Hi-  1586  Willm.  mar.  1586  P.C.C.  1607.  Lres.adm.  to  sonJohn, 

son.of Bvlaugh.  gate,  of  Norw.  Middleton  of  Rich. Crane  of  of  Wetheringsett,  1616,  C.E.  Norw. 

Sole  devisee  of  &Mendlesham;  Westerham,  Westerwood  Inq.  p.m.  5  Jas.  Son  John  heir, 

father’s  Will.  lie.  C.C.  Norw.  Kent.Visitn.  and  Pullham.  set.  18.  Bap.  at  Bacton  1660 ;  bur. 

—  Sussex  1634.  at  Thorndon  May  1607.  Pedigree, 

Robert,  b. 1561.  Yisitn.  Suff.  1612. 


Margarita,  bap.  at 
Thorndon  1589  ; 
mar.  Wm.  Browne, 
of  Colchester. 


Mary,  bap. 
at  Wether- 
iugsett 
1594. 


Elizabeth,  bap. 
at  Wetheringsett 
1591 ;  mar.  Wm. 
Wolnough  1616. 


Frances, 
aet.  17  1612 
(Camden). 


Anne,  bap.  at 
Thorndon 1601 ; 
mar.  1624  Thos. 
Doole. 


Rose, 
bap.  at 
Thorndon 
1604,  s.p. 


Mary,  da.  of  Geo.  and 
Rose  Sayre,  of  Col- 
cehster,  devisee  under 
Will  of  father  1594 
remar.  Feb.  1610,  Fra. 
Thetford,  widr. ;  lie. 
C.C.  Norw.  ;  dead 
1630. 


- 1 — l 

Thomas,  2d  s. 
Admon.  to  fa- 
ther  1607, 
Norw.,  said  to 
have  had  son, 
Thomas. 


William, 

1566. 


b. 


Robert  and  Ed¬ 
ward,  bur.  1603- 
1606  at  Thorn¬ 
don. 


George, 
ob.  s.p. 
(Cam¬ 
den). 


John  Pretyman,  of  Brames  Hall ;  sold  Thorndon  Manor=yBridget,  dau.  of  John  Futter, 


to  Sir  Jno.  Pretyman,  1614,  and  Brames  Hall,  c.  1651 ; 
living  at  Bury.  Bap.  at  Thorndon  1589 ;  bur.  at  Bury 
Sep.  1663.  Had  issue  eleven  children.  Vide  C.P. 


of  Thuxton  ;  mar.  1611 ;  bur. 
at  Bury  Feb.  1662.  Ped. 
Futter,  Yisitn.  Norf. 


Thomas,  William,  bap.  1599.  A  William  and 

bap.  1597  at  Elizabeth,  of  Norw.,  living  at  Gt. 
Thorndon  ;  Porrton,  Line.,  1635;  buried  a  son 
living  1612.  William  there. 


Mary,  bap.  1614 
at  Thorndon  ; 
mar.  Thomas 
Morphew  1636. 


Daus.  mar. . .  . 
Burgess,  .  .  . 
Thing,  &  Hen¬ 
ry  Raymond. 


Veseley,  bap.  at  We¬ 
theringsett  1617. 

Rose,  bap.  1616. 


Winifrede, 
bap.  at 
Wethering¬ 
sett  1619. 


Margaret,  bap. 
at  Wethering¬ 
sett  1621;  un¬ 
mar.  1653. 


Katherine,  Grace,  Nazareth,  bap.  at  We- 
bap.atWe-  bap.atWe-  theringsett  1629.  Will 
thering-  thering-  1702,  Arch.  Sud.,  to 
sett  1622.  sett  1626.  Lydia,  da.  of  Thomas 
Pretyman. 


John  Pretyman,  bap.  at  Wethering¬ 
sett  Aug.  1624.  A  John  and  Mary 
bur.  at  Aspall  1661. 


Thomas  Pretyman,  bap.  at  Wetheringsett  Sep.  1627  ;  ment.  in  Will  of  Nazareth  as  dead  1702; 
his  unmar.  dau.  Lydia  a  devisee.  Was  this  Thomas  Pretyman,  Senr.,  of  Bury,  who,  with  Eliza¬ 
beth  his  wife,  was  living  in  1667  ?  A  Thomas  Pretyman,  Sen.,  issued  tokens  at  Bury  at  this  date. 
See  Pretyman  of  London. 


310 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Margaret,  bap.  Frances,'  bap.  at  Anne,  bap.  at  Bac-  Elizabeth,  bap. 

at  Bacton  1566 ;  Bacton  1567 ;  mr.  tonl571;mar.  Thos.  at  Bacton  1571 ; 

mar.  Ric.  Wood-  William  Gooehe  Arminger,  of  Can-  mar.  Thos.  Al- 

ward  1589.  1550,  Tudenham.  nington.  ston  1594. 


Katherine,  bap.  at 
Bacton  1576 ;  mar. 
Robt.  Richmond, 
Hedenham,  Norf. 


Martha,  bap.  at  Bac-  Mary,  mar 

ton  1579 ;  mar . Bax- 

Smythe.  ter. 


Thomas  Pretyman,  of  Bacton,  fine  44- 
Eliz. ;  Ires.  adm.  1621,  C.E.  Norw. 
Bap.  at  Bacton  Oct.  1669  ;  bur.  1621. 
Inq.  p.m.  Henry  heir  ®t.  17. 


;Helen,  dau.  of  John  Houlditch, 
of  Dedlington,  co.  co.  Norf. ; 
living  at  Diss  1636,  relict  of 
James  Blomefield,  Yisitn.Norf. 


Robert,  bap.  at  Bac¬ 
ton  7  Nov.  1570 ;  alive 
1600,  dead  1626. 


John  Pretyman,  bap.  at  Bac-=f  Mary  Mount, 
ton  1575  ;  presumed  to  have  j  married  at 
removed  to  London ;  ?  bur.  [  Thorndon 
at  St.  Helen’s,  Lond.,  1650.  |  Feb.  1601. 


Henry  Pretyman,  of  Bac-=j=Mary,  dau. 


ton  ;  pur.  manors  of  Bacton 
and  Newhall  of  Sir  John 
Pretyman,  Knt.,  1634.  Will, 
Arch.  Sud.  1666,  to  only 
son  John.  Bap.  at  Bacton 
1603  ;  bur.  Feb.  1666. 


Rachel,  bap. 
at  Bacton 
1626 ;  mar. 
.  .  .  Payne, 
c.  1656. 

Susan. 


Mary,  bap.  at 
Bacton  1633 ; 
mar.  Jos.  Glo¬ 
ver  ;  bur.  at 
Turn  stall, 
1709,  wid. 


of  Richard 
Pretyman, 
of  Bacton. 
Bap.  1606 ; 
mar.  1624; 
bur.  1643, 
at  Bacton. 


Eliza-  Thomas,  of  Bury.: 

beth,  Lres.adm.to  Ann 

bap.  his  widow,  Arch, 

at  Sud.  1674.  Bap. 

Bac-  at  Bacton  1609 ; 

ton  bur.  in  south 

1601.  porch  at  Bacton 

1674. 


Ann,  dau. 
(?)  of  John 
Stafford, 
of  Bury ; 
mar.  June 
1635,  at 
Ampton, 
co.  Suff. 


John  Pretyman,  of  Holborn, 
devisee  of  grandmother  1626. 
Will,  Court  of  Delegates  1661, 
lands  at  Stebon  Heath  to  dau. 
Elizabeth  Serjeant  and  her 
son  ;  Ires,  admon.  decree 
1680 ;  mar.  sister  of  Robert 
W  arner.  =f 


Margaret, 

Anne, 

bap.  at 

bap.  at 

Thorndon, 

Thorn¬ 

1603. 

don 

1606. 

Margaret, 
bap.  atBac- 
ton  1638  ; 
d.  unmar. 
1670;bur.at 
Turn  stall. 


Thomas  Pretyman,  son;-j=Elizabeth,  Baron  of 


of  Thomas  and  Anne ; 
bap.  at  Bury,  Oct.  1636. 
Lres.  adm.  to  wife 
1678.  P.C.C.  Reeve  of 
Newmarket. 


Thei’sfield,  Herts. 
Will, Arch.  Sud.  1694, 
mentions  daus.  Ann 
and  Mary,  and  bro¬ 
ther,  Chas.  Baron. 


Elizabeth, mar. 
at  St.  Margt., 
Westminster, 
1649,  Thomas 
Sarjeant,  wid., 
1680. 


John  Pretyman, of  Stebon 
Heath,  Midx.,  kinsman  of 
John  Clark,  whose  Will, 
P.C.C.4Cokel668, devises 
to  John  and  Wm., minors. 
Vide  C.P.  1670,  Bridges, 
534-95.  -r 


1.  Catherine, =j=John  Pretyman,  only  sur.  son,  of— 2.  Anne,  da.  of 
dau.  of  Al-  Bacton  Manor  &  Thetford.  Will  JohnBrames; 
mottClenche,  1678,  C.E.  Norw.  380  Potter.  En-  married  1668; 
of  Geat  Beal-  teredped.  Heralds’ Yis.  Suff.  1664.  bur.  in  Bac- 
ings  ;  bur.  at  Bap.  1632;  bur.  in  Bacton  Ch.  ton  Ch.,  1884. 
Bacton  1667.  M.I.  Arms,  Pretyman  &  Brames.  M.I. 


1  L 

r 

~) 

Robert, 

Anne, bap. 

Mary, 

bap.  at 

at  Bury 

bsp.  at 

Bacton 

1665;  mar. 

Bury 

1636; 

Thomas 

1671  ; 

dead 

Wicks. 

died 

1666. 

unmar. 

John  Pretyman  and  William  Prety¬ 
man,  minors  1668,  possibly  the  two 
brothers  who  joined  the  Duke  of 
York’s  Colony  inDelaware,  America, 
1675-80. 


Mary,  married 
Thos.  Smythe, 
of  Thrandes- 
ton;  wid.,  1727. 


- ! - - - 

Katherine,  mar. 
at  Finningham, 
1688,  John  Shul- 
ver ;  died  1727. 


Margaret, mar.  Susan,  Henry  Pretyman,  only  son,  devisee  of  father;  sold  Bacton  Manor 

John  Todd,  of  1664.  to  Geo.  Pretyman,  1703;  mar.  Mary,  dau.  of  Sir  John  Sedley  of 

Finningham.  St.  Clere,  Kent,  Bart.,  at  St.  Mary  Abbotts,  Kensington,  1682;  se¬ 

parated  1686  ;  bur.  at  Bacton  1707,  set.  45,  s.p. 


iprftgman  of  Hontion. 


Anne,  married, 
1st,  Jo.  Sharp, 
of  Bury ;  2nd, 
William  Wil¬ 
son,  of  Bury. 


Thomas,  ?  son  of  John  Pretyman,  of  the  Thorndon  family,  and  Bridget  Futter,  his  wife.  Bapt.  at  Wether-=j=Elizabeth. 
ingsett,  1627  ;  named  as  dead  in  the  Will  of  Nazareth  Pretyman  1702.  See  page  309. 

H 


Martha  (spinster), 
bap.  at  Bury  1668. 
Will,  Arch.  Sud. 
1728, to  Jane,  sister 
in  law  and  niece, 
Elizabeth. 


— ~i - 

Mary, 
mar. 
William 
Burton, 
of  Lon¬ 
don. 


J ohn,  cit.  &  surgeon,  Lond. ;  bouiid-j=Martha  Hard- 
Surgeon  Hall,  son  of  Thos.  Prety¬ 
man,  Sen.,  of  Bury,  1667.  Will 
1707,  P.C.C.  Arch.  Lond.  Died 
in  parish  of  St.  Christopher  le 
Stocks  July  1708. 


inge,  mar.  at 
St.  Botolph, 
Aldsgate  ;  ex¬ 
ecutrix  of  her 
husb.’s  Will. 


Peter,  bap. 
at  Bury 
1659 ;  fol¬ 
lowed  Jas. 
II  to  France 
1688;  d.s.p. 


I -  T  - - 

John, of  London;  bap.  Thomas,  of  London,  surgeon  ;  bap.=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  John  Mar¬ 
at  Christr.  le  Stocks  1680.  Will  1749,  P.C.C.  Greenly.  I  riott,  of  Rumford ;  mar.  1719 
1678 ;  died  1739,  s.p.  Bur.  1749,  at  Wanstead.  |  at  St.  Christopher  le  Stocks. 

i - 7  1 

Thomas  Pretyman,  born  1722,  only  child ;  of  Camberwell  and  Tower  Hill.  Will  1782,  P.C.C.  Corn-^-f  Sarah,  dau.  of  John  Nathan,  of 
wallis.  Bur.  at  Camberwell  1783.  j  Rochester ;  mar.  1723. 

- - - i 


Mane  Porey, 
of  London ; 
guardian  of 
Hen.  Prety¬ 
man,  of  Bac¬ 
ton  (above). 

i - 

Elizabeth,  devisee  of  Henry,  of  Lon- 
Martha,  bur.  at  Ips-  don,  only  son 
wich  1762.  living  1747. 


Henry,  of= 
Ipswich ; 
bap.  at 
Buryl655; 
died  be¬ 
fore  1682. 


r~r 


John  and  William,  only  sons,  both  living  1782 ;  reported  dead  1803,  s.p. 


Elizabeth,  only  dau.,  living  1782  unmar. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


311 


iJntptan  of  Snffidi). 


William  Pratyman,  of  Bacton,  eldest  son  of  William  and  Agnes,  styled  Junior 
1491-8,  Senior  1509.  Held  Knights  Fees  of  Bacton  and  Cotton  Bresworth  Manors 
by  ward  of  Norwich  Castle.  Will  dated  4  Feb.  1542,  Arch.  Sud.  Colman  36 ;  mentions 
sons  John,  William,  Thomas,  and  his  grandsons  John,  William,  and  Thomas ;  inq.  p.m. 
19  Julj',  34  H.  8  ;  son  William  aged  40.  Born  1463,  bur.  at  Bacton  25  March  1542. 


1.  Alice, ; 
dau.  of 
•  ■  Tyr¬ 
rell,  of 
Suffolk 
(Cam¬ 
den)  ; 
bur.  at 
Bacton 
5  April 
1659. 


-Thomas  Pratyman, 
of  Cotton  &  Need¬ 
ham,  co.  Norfolk; 
owned  lordship  of 
Boys  of  Bacton 
Will  dated  10  Dec 
1561,  pro.  P.C.C 
1563,  Chayre  23 
ment.  Wm.  &  John 
Inq.  p.m.  5  Eliz. 
aged  15  in  1513 
dead  7  Feb.  1563 
William  eld.  of  age 


Elynor, 
mar.  at 
Cotton, 
William 
Bugge 


Bridget,  bapt. 
at  Cotton  1538, 
married  .  .  .  . 
Gooche ;  living 
1561. 


1549. 


"T 


1 


:2.  Mar¬ 

William  Pratyman, 

garet 

Jun.,ofBacton;left 

Clerk, of 

his  father’s  lands  to 

Need¬ 

hi  s  nephew  W  illiam , 

ham,  co. 

son  of  Thomas,  by 

Norf.  ; 

Will  dated  1564, 

mar.  c. 

Arch.  Sud.  Born 

1561. 

Feb.  1496,  bur.  at 

Will 

Bacton  3  July  1564, 

1566,  C. 

s.p.m.  Dau.  Mar¬ 

C.  Nor., 

garet  not  21  1577, 

Bunne 

married  c.  1580  .  .  . 

63  ;  s.p. 

Mannynge. 

Sir  John  Pratyman, 
priest  of  W y  verstone, 
presented  May  1524, 
leaves  lands  to  Thos.. 
Wm.,  and  John,  sons 
of  brother  Thomas ; 
mentions  his  brother 
William.  Will  dated 
28  April  1545,  Arch. 
Sudb.  Longe  505. 
Died  s.p.,  bur-,  in 
chancel  of  Wy ver¬ 
stone  Church. 


- 1 - 

Alyce,  bapt.  at  Cotton 
1541 ;  mar.  John  Gaye, 
vel  Jaye,  of  Ersham, 
Norfolk.  Lie.  C.C. 
Nor.  1563. 


Katherine,  mar. 
John  Bugge,  of 
Barking,  Lord  of 
Bull  Hall  Manor. 
Her  Will  1561. 
Snff.Yisitn.1664. 


Joane,  mar. 
.  .  Garnham 
(vel  Ger- 
noun)  ;  liv¬ 
ing  1561. 


Arms  of  John  Pretyman,  Jcn., 
at  Horninghold,  Leic.,  1650.  > 

Pretyman  of  seven. 

Mennes  of  four  quarters. 


1.  Anne,: 

dau.  of 

John 

Howe, 

ofStowe 

Market, 

mar.  at 

Bacton 

Feb. 

1562, 

bur.  at 

Bacton 

20  Apr. 

1571. 


,=j=William  Pratyman,  Sen.,  Ist-r2.  Katherine 


son ;  fine  as  heir  of  to  land 
Cotton  (4  Eliz.)  ;  Lord  of 
the  Manors  of  Bacton  and 
Newhall  Bresworth,  purch. 
1587,  and  Markenshall  in 
Parkenham ;  advow.  of  Bac¬ 
ton  and  Hawley  ;  subsd.  to 
National  Defence  Fund 
against  Armada.  Will  dated 
13  Sep.  1594,  enrolled  in  C.P. 
Inq.  p.m.  37  Eliz.  John, 
son  and  heir,  aged  26.  Bur. 
at  Bacton  14  Sep.  1594. 


of  Witchenham 
Magna,  co.  Norf. 
Died  c.  1631. 


Thomas,  born 
prior  to  1542, 
bur.  at  Bacton 
23  April  1552. 


Thomas,  in¬ 
fant,  buried 
1552  at  Bac¬ 
ton. 


Katherine, bapt. 
at  Bacton  9 
June  1577,  died 
1594,  bur.  at  St. 
Bennet’s,  Sher- 
hog,  London. 
Vide  epitaph. 


- 1 - 1 

Marie,  bapt.  at  Bac-  Thomas, 
ton  1579 ;  married  bapt.  at 
March  1594,  Francis  Bacton  1 
Thetford,  of  Great  May, bur. 
Witchenham,  Barr ;  31  May 

died  before  1609.  1575  at 

Vide  C.P.  Bacton. 


1 .  Anne,— J  ohnPraty  man,  Jun .  ,= 
P  sister  of  Wy  verstone  and 
of  M.  Bacton.  Mar.  settls. 
Green,  in  Bacton  Rolls.  Will 
of  Wei-  15  Apr.  1587,  Arch, 
by,  co.  Sud.  Bright  228, 
Norfolk  lands  to  wife,  rem. 
(Blom) ;  to  Richd.,son.  Bap.at 
bur.  at  Cotton  1542,  died  2 
Bacton  May  1587,  bur.  in 
3  May  Bacton  Church.  M.I. 
1570,  Inq.  p.m.  29  Eliz., 
s.p.  Richard  only  son 

aged  6  years  5  mths. 


See  A. 


-2.  Joane,  dau. 
and  sole  heir 
of  Robert 
Holmes, Wy- 
verstone  ; 
mar.  Feb. 
1580,  remar. 
there  7  Sep. 
1587  to  John 
Clench,  of 
Ipswich ; 
Lie.  C.C., 
Norw.  She 
died  1629. 


Richard  Pretyman,  Sen.,  of  Wyverstone,  only  son.  Fine  44  Eliz.  Will  dated  15  Mar.  1646,=j=Margaret,  dau.  of  .  .  .  Ballard,  of  Bury; 


Arch.  Sud.  Ashton  II,  446,  to  John,  life  interest  to  wife, 
at  Wyverstone  11  July  1651. 


Bapt.  at  Bacton  1  Jan.  1580,  bur. 


Margaret,  bapt.  at  Bacton  1613  ;  mar.  1st  Robert  Dove,  2nd  Thos.  Cropley, 
Ar.  of  Shetland ;  she  died  1676,  bur.  in  Shelland  Church.  M.I. 


Richard,  bur.  at 
Bacton  1610. 


mar.  at  St.  Mary’s,  Bury,  30  April  1604 ; 
living  1655. 


Elizabeth,  bap.  at  Bacton  1616 ;  mar. 
William  Browne,  of  Finningham,  1647 ; 
living  1681.  Heralds’  Vis.  1664. 


John  Pretyman,  of  Wyverstone,  only  surviving  son.  Will  dated  =Mary,  dau.  of  Francis  Browne,  Mary,  1st  dau.,  bapt.  at  Bacton  8 
16  May  1655,  P.C.C.  Aylett  273  ;  mentions  his  mother,  wife,  and  of  Finningham.  Mar.  2  Rev.  Sept.  1606 ;  mar.  Henry  Pretyman, 
“my  cohs.”  Henry  Pretyman,  Margaret  Dove,  and  Elizabeth  Tobias  Blosse,  of  Belstead  Hall,  of  Bacton,  18  March  1624;  bur. 
Browne.  Bapt.  at  Bacton  1  Sep.  1611,  bur.  at  Wyverstone  Suff.  Bur.  at  Belstead  Oct.  1705.  there  6  Mar.  1643.  Vide  pedigree 
21  May  1655,  s.p.  Will  Arch.  Sudb.  Thorndon  Branch. 


312 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


1.  Christopher  Wase,  of=Anne,  1st  dan.,  —  2.  Sir  William  Armyne,  Knt., 


Goldsmith’s  Guild,  Lon-  bapt.  at  Bacton  20 
don  ;  mar.  at  Bacton  21  Jan.  1563,  died  at 
Aug.  1580,  died  Sept.  Silk  Willoughby, 
1605,  bur. at  St.Vedast’s.  co.  Line. 

Funeral  Certificate. 


widower,  of  Silk  Willoughby ;  Lord 
of  Osgolby,  co.  Line. ;  High  Sher¬ 
iff,  44  Eliz.  and  1  Jas.  Mar.  at 
St.  Aug.,  Farrington  within,  6 
March  1606. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  at  Bac¬ 
ton  Aug.  1568 ;  mar. 
Edmund  Pigott,  of 
Laughton,  co.  Bucks,  Ar. 
(Camden),  2  May  1586, 
at  St.  Vedast,  London. 


Susanna,  bapt.  at  Bacton 
1569,  died  April  1631,  mar. 
at  Bacton,  20  Nov.  1589, 
Sir  John  Woode,  Knt.,  of 
Foulbourne,  co.  York,  J.P., 
and  Hubbard,  co.  Camb. 


i - 

William  Pretyman, 
1st  son, of  Grey’slnn, 
adm.  1583.  Bapt.  at 
Bacton  7  April  1566, 
died  s.p.  Jan.  1587, 
bur.  in  Bacton  Ch. 
M.I.  Inq.  p.m.  31 
Eliz.  Brother  John 
heir,  aged  21. 


1.  Dorothy,  4th  dau.  of  Sir- 
Robert  Drury,  Knt.,  of  Roug- 
ham,  Suff.,  and  Elizabeth, 
his  wife,  dau.  of  Sir  William 
Drury,  Knt.,  of  Hawstead, 
co.  Sufi.  Vide  Suffolk  Man¬ 
orial  Families  I,  347.  Mar.  at 
Rougham  5  June  1593,  bur-,  in 
Bacton  Church  23  Feb.  1607. 


-Sir  John  Pretyman,  Knt.,  J.P.,  of  Driffield,  co.  Glouc.,  only  sur-= 
viviugson.  Fine  as  heir  37  Eliz.;  knighted  by  James  I  at  Theo¬ 
balds  July  1603;  created  J.P.  at  Coronation  of  Charles  I  1624. 
Left  Bacton  c.  1609 ;  pur.  (c.  1615)  Driffield  and  Ashbrook 
Manors,  co.  Glouc.,  before  1623  ;  sold  Suffolk  Manors  to  Henry 
Pretyman  1636.  Will  3  Dec.  1638,  P.C.C.  Hervey  38  ;  ments. 
sons  John  and  William.  Bapt.  at  Bacton  11  May  1567,  died 
22  Dec.  1638,  bur.  in  chancel  at  Driffield  Church.  M.I.  Inq. 
p.m.  1639.  Son  John,  heir,  aged  26. 


=2.  Mary,  dau.  of  Sir 
Wm.Bourchier,Kt., 
of  Barnsley,  co. 
Glouc.  Mar.  at  St. 
Barthol.  the  Great, 
Lond.,29  Nov.  1607, 
bur.  in  Driffield 
Church  1638.  M.I. 
Yisitn.  Glouc. 


i - 1 - — i - p  _ 

Elizabeth,  bapt.  at  Anne,  bapt.  at  Rougham  Dorothy,  unmar.  1638  ;  supposed  William,  bapt.  at  Roug- 
Rougham  1594,?  bur.  1605,  mar.  at  Driffield  1626  to  have  mar.,  c.  1640,  John  Far-  ham  1601,  P  bur.  at  Dr  if - 
at  Driffield  1601.  Ed.  Hall,  of  Hallowe,  co.  rington,  of  London,  who  ob.  16  field  1601. 

Wore.  July  1642. 


Mary,  living 
1638  unmar¬ 
ried. 


Susan,  mar.  settle— 
ments  Close  Roll 
1628 ;  Ires,  admon. 
1705 ;  bur.  at  Caine, 
Wilts.  Portrait  at 
Dingley  Hall,  Leic., 
1820. 


;Sir  Edward  Hungerford, 
created  Knt.  Bant,  by 
Charles  II,  of  Cadenham 
and  Caine,  co.  Wilts.  Will 
8  May  1665,  pro.  6  Oct. 
1667  ;  bur.  in  Brumble  Ch. 
Ped.  Le  Neve’s  Knights. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  at= 
Driffield  1614,  mar. 
there  1631,  died  6 
Oct.  1652,  bnr.  at 
St.  Nicholas,  Dept¬ 
ford.  M.I. 


:Sir  Richard  Browne,  Knight  and  Baronpt, 
British  Resident  at  the  Courts  of  Louis  XIII 
and  XIY,  1641-60;  Clerk  of  Council,  Car.  II. 
Died  12  Feb.  1683,  bur.  at  St.  Nicholas,  Dep- 
ford.  M.I.  Left  issue  Mary,  who  aged  12, 
mar.  in  Paris  John  Evelyn,  of  Sayes  Court, 
Depford,  author  of  Diary. 


1.  Elizabeth,1 
dau.  and  sole 
heir  of  Sir 
George  Tur¬ 
pin, of  Knap- 
toft  &  Horn- 
inghold,  co. 
Leic.  Mar. 
settlmts.  10 
May  1634  ; 
mar.  c.  1630, 
diedinLond. 
March  1663. 
Brought 
Horninghold 
on  her  mar. 


Robert, bapt. 
atDriffieldl3 
March  1641, 
bur.  at  Lod- 
ington  1654. 


l - 

Edward, 
bapt.  at  Drif¬ 
field  15  Dec. 
1644,  dead 
1665. 


Sir  John  Pretyman,  Knt.  and  Bart.,  M.P.,  of  Loding-=2.  Theodo- 
ton  Hall  and  Horninghold  Manor  House,  co.  Leic. ;  sia,  c.  1664, 
admit.  Lincoln’s  Inn  3  Feb.  1629;  active  Loyalist;  dau.ofThos. 
Comr.  Subsidy  Tax  1640,  and  for  Garrisons  1642,  co.  Adams,  of 
Glouc. ;  present  at  taking  of  Cirencester,  Feb.  1642  ;  London,  re- 
High  Sheriff  of  Leic.  1653  ;  bought  Loddington  from  lict  of  Lion- 
Earl  of  Newport  1650,  and  sold  Driffield;  joined  Sir  el  Knivett. 
George  Booth’s  rising  Aug.  1659 ;  created  Knight  Her  Will 
Baronet  of  Nova  Scotia,  c.  July  1660;  Commr.  Poll  1692, P.C.C. 
Tax,  co.  Leic.,  by  Act.  of  Parliament,  Sept.  1660 ;  Fane  209. 
by  Ires,  pat.,  Aug.  1660,  Receiver  General  of  First  Died  at 
Fruits ;  mentioned  in  several  letters  of  the  King,  Cheshunt, 
1663-70;  returned  Member  for  Leicester,  1661;  sat  co.  Herts, 
until  his  death,  c.  1676.  Born  1612.  Mentions,  s.p. 

C.P.  1665,  surviving  sons  George,  William,  and 
Thomas. 


William  Pretyman,  of  Bloomfield= 
Mansion,  Deptford,  and  Hatton 
Gardens,  Holborn,  2nd  son.  Roy¬ 
alist,  carried  letters  between  King 
Car.  and  his  Queen ;  agent  at 
London  during  usurpation  ;  mer¬ 
chant  adventurer  to  India  1655  ; 
after  restoration,  by  Ires,  pat., 
Sep.  1669,  King’s  Remembrancer 
of  First  Fruits.  Lres.  admon., 
P.C.C.  Extor.  and  Pine,  1688. 
Mentions  widow,  William  his 
son,  and  2  dans.  Frequently  men¬ 
tioned  in  Diary  of  Evelyn  as 
“  uncle.”  Bur.  at  Greenwich  8 
March  1688. 


Robert  Pretyman, 
of  St.  Dunstans  in 
West, Middx.  Lres. 
admon.  P.C.C.  (is¬ 
sued  to  father),  he 
styled  batchelor, 
14  Dec.  1634. 


:Elizabeth,  dau.  of 
John  King,  Bishop 
of  Ely  elect,  and 
Mary  Baron  nee 
Harrison,  son  of 
John  King,  Bishop 
of  London.  Mar. 
c.  1653.  Ment.  in 
Will  of  mother 
1654,  P.C.C.  Al¬ 
ehin  19 ;  died  1703 ; 
bur.  in  north  chan, 
of  St.  Margaret’s, 
Westm .;  Ires. of  ad¬ 
mon., P.C.C.  West 
to  son  William. 


William  Pretyman,  only  son ;  matric.  at  Christchurch  College,  Ox¬ 
ford,  1682,  aged  16  ;  student  of  Lincoln’s  Inn,  1684  ;  Commission 
as  Capt.  in  Earl  of  Arran’s  Horse,  1694  ;  petitions  Duke  of  Marl¬ 
borough  1706,  for  Commission  in  New  Levies.  (Le  Neve  states: 
Captain  of  a  foot  company.  Died  unmar.  10  Feb.  1707,  bur.  at  St. 
Martin-in- Fields.)  Bapt.  at  Greenwich  29  Aug.  1665. 


Elizabeth,  died  unmar.  Will 
pro.  1721,  P.C.C.  96  Bucking¬ 
ham,  by  her  heir  Elizabeth 
Littleton,  widow  ( nee  Baron  ?). 
Bur.  in  north  chan,  of  St. 
Margaret’s,  Westm.,  1721. 


Mary,  bapt.  at 
Greenwich  1656, 
died  unmar.  July 
1719.  Lres.  ad¬ 
mon.,  P.C.C.,  to 
sister. 


Mary,  1st  dau.,  bapt.  at  Driffield  1631,  died 
17  Aug.  1663,  bur.  in  Alexton  Church,  Leic. 
M.I.  Arms,  Yerney  and  Pretyman.  Mar. 
Sir  Richard  Verney,  3rd  Lord  Willoughby 
de  Broke;  mar.  settls.  21  Nov.  1651  at 
Compton  Yerney  1820.  Heralds’  Visitn. 
Leicester  1681. 


Elizabeth,  3rd  dau.,  bapt.  at  Driffield  Katherine,  bapt. 
1638,  died  1698,  bur.  at  W elham.  Mar.  at  Driffield  1648, 
1,  1656,  Sir  Thos.  Burton,  of  Stocker-  mar.  Wm.  Hol- 
stone  Bart.,  who  died  1659;  Will,  P.C.C.  ford,  of  Grey’s 
Peel  351.  2,  Sir  William  Halford,  of  Inn,  Barrister, 

Welham,  Knt.,  22  May  1662,  at  Lod-  after  1671  (Le 
ington.  Visitn.  Leicester  1681.  Neve). 


Susan,  bapt.  at  Drif 
field  1640,  mar.  Fer 
dinand  Sacheverell 
of  Morley,  co.  Derby 
His  Wilfp.C.C.  1663 
Juxon  44. 


See  B. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


313 


John  Pretyman,  Jun.,=p Margaret,  sole  dau.  and  heir  of  Sir  Mathew  Menues, 


T 


1st  son,  of  Horning- 
hold ;  mar.  settles. 
1650,  Close  Roll.  Will 
30  Aug.,  pro.  27  Oct. 
1658,  P.C.C.  Wotton 
551.  Bapt.  at  Drif¬ 
field  1632,  died  30Aug. 
1658. 


K.B.,  of  Sandwich,  Kent  (ob.  May  1648  ,  and  his 
wife,  Lady  Margaret  Stuart,  only  child  of  John 
Stuart,  Earl  of  Garrick  in  Orkney  (and  Lady  Eliz. 
Howard,  dau.  of  Chas.,  Earl  of  Nottingham),  son  of 
Robert  Stuart,  Earl  of  Orkney,  uat.  son  of  James  Y 
of  Scotland.  Mar.  March  1650,  remar.  1664  Sir 
John  Heath,  Knight.  She  was  bur.  at  Braisted  1676, 
M.I.,  leaving  a  dau.  Margaret  Heath,  sole  issue, 
who  mar.  George,  4th  Lord  Willoughby  de  Broke. 


John,  1st  son,  born  1653,  sole  heir;  bur.  at 
Greenwich  as  “  Mr.  Esquire  Pretyman,” 
29  Aug.  1664. 


Mathew,  2nd  son,  bur.  at 
Lodington  1656. 


Sir  George  Pretyman,  Knt.  and  Bart., ^Elizabeth,  only  dau. 


2nd  son,  of  Lincoln’s  Inn  and  Lodding 
ton.  Adm.  Lincoln’s  Inn  1665  ;  raised 
troop  of  Horse,  joined  Sir  George 
Booth’s  rising,  Aug.  1669 ;  taken 
prisoner ;  escaped  to  the  Continent 
reed,  by  the  King  at  Breda,  May  1660 
knighted  at  Whitehall,  29  Sept.  1660 
Bapt.  at  Driffield,  1638  ;  bur.  at  James, 
Piccadilly,  16  Apr.  1716,  s.p.m. 


of  Sir  Isaac  Sedley, 
Bart.,  of  St.  Clere, 
Kent, and  heir  of  his 
1st  wife  ;  mar.,  2, 
by  lie.,  at  St.  Clere 
1661 ;  mar.  settles. 
Close  Roll  1661. 
Living  1712  in  Staf¬ 
fordshire  (LeNeve). 


George,  1st  son,  bapt.  at 
Stoekerstone  1 662 ;  d  ead  be¬ 
fore  1712,  s.p.m.  (Le  Neve). 


Shirley,  on  authority  of  Le 
Neve  dead  1712,  leaving  is¬ 
sue  one  dau.,  Elizabeth. 


Sir  William  Pretyman,  Bart.,  3rd  son,  of  London.  Men¬ 
tioned  in  Chan.  Pro.  and  entries  in  Close  Roll  1660-84; 
petitions  the  King,  June  1660,  as  “  son  of  Sir  John.” 
Le  Neve  states  living  1712  with  Lord  Willoughby  de 
Broke  in  London.  Sue.  his  brother  Sir  George  as  3d 
Baronet  April  1716.  Bapt.  at  Driffield  3  Feb.  1640, 
bur.  at  Greenwich  8  Nov.  1719,  s.p.m. 


bur.  at 
Green¬ 
wich  20 
Sept. 
1694. 


Thomas  Pretyman,  4th  son,  of  Hackney  and1 
Greene’s  farme,  Line.  Bound  at  Draper’s 
Hall  1659.  Lands  at  Greene’s  farme,  pur¬ 
chased  by  his  father  and  uncle  1649,  conveyed 
to  him  1691  vide  Close  Rolls ;  reconveyed 
1698  to  son  Thomas.  Living  1710,  dead  1719 ; 
bapt.  at  Driffield  9  Feb.  1642. 


Mary,  eldest  dau.  of 
Hugh  Norris,  of  Hack¬ 
ney  Manor,  and  Susan, 
his  wife  (who  remar. 
.  .  .  Beaumont  before 
1668) ;  mar.  by  spec, 
lie.  15  Jan.  1668. 


Elizabeth,  only  child, 
mar.,  c.  1700,  Digby 
Berkeley,  of  Ardus- 
tan,  Carlow,  Ireland. 


Sir  Thomas  Pretyman,  Bart.,  only  son,  of  Hackney  and  Greene’s  farme,  aged  28=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  John  Buggin, 
at  mar.  Succeeded  his  uncle  Sir  William  as  4th  Baronet  1719  ;  elected  25  Aug.  I  of  North  Cray,  Kent.  Mar, 
1722  as  Sir  Thomas  Pretyman,  Bart.,  “  a  poor  Marchant,”  for  admission  into  [  there  by  lie.  1698 ;  bur.  in  chan. 
Morden  Coll. ;  no  evidence  of  residence,  last  mentioned  on  the  books  25  Dec.  I  vault  of  North  Cray  Church  11 
1749.  Left  only  issue  Elizabeth  and  Mary,  vide  C.P.  1710,  died  c.  1750.  April  1719. 


Elizabeth  Pretyman,  1st  dau.,  of  East  Wickham,  Kent.  Bapt.  at  North  Cray  1699. 
Her  Will,  P.C.C.  Webster  314  and  360,  pro.  14  July  1781  ;  no  residy.  legatee.  Mary 
Adderley,  cousin  German,  declared  nearest  heir.  Died  unmar.  1781 ;  bur.  16  May 
in  chan,  vault  of  North  Cray  Church. 


Mary  Pretyman,  2nd  dau.,  of  East  Wickham. 
Bapt.  at  North  Cray  1701.  Will,  P.C.C.  Lisle  354, 
1749  ;  sister  Elizabeth  devisee.  Diedunmar.  1749, 
bur.  in  North  Cray  Church. 


'Wtttn  frmtt  lung  tc  J®ulrritur-(£m't*ai,  1663-4. 

Whereas  Sr  John  Pretyman,  Knt  and  BarrM,  hath  by  his  Petioion  humbly  besought  us  to  accept 
of  a  surrender  of  our  Ires  Patents  granted  unto  him  of  the  office  of  Receiver  of  the  First  Fruites  and 
of  the  Tenths  installed,  and  of  other  y®  spirituall  paymts  within  our  Realme  of  England,  payable  to  us, 
our  heires  and  successors,  With  an  inteneion  neverthelesse  that  wee  would  grant  y®  said  office  unto  Sr 
Thomas  Cooke  of  Acton  in  y®  County  of  Middx  Knu,  for  and  during  his  natuall  life  ;  Which  surrender 
wee  being  gratiously  pleased  to  accept  of.  In  consideracion  thereof  and  of  the  good  and  acceptable 
services  of  the  said  Sr  Thomas  Cooke  performed  unto  us,  Our  will  and  pleasure  [is]  That  you  prepare  a 
Bill  for  our  Royall  signature  conteyning  a  grant  of  the  said  office  unto  y®  said  Sr  Thomas  Cooke,  To 
hold  for  and  during  the  terme  of  his  naturall  life,  With  all  fees,  proffits  &  advantages  thereunto 
belonging,  in  as  full  &  ample  manner  as  any  other  person  or  persons  formerly  or  of  right  have  held  or 
enjoyed  y®  same.  To  bee  executed  by  y®  said  Sr  Thomas  Cooke  or  by  his  sufficient  Deputy  or  Deputyes. 
And  for  so  doeing  this  slxalbe  your  sufficient  Warrant. 

Given  at  our  Court  at  Whitehall  the  .  .  .  day  of  .  .  .  in  the  fifteenth  yeare  of  our  Reigne. 
[ J any  30th  166| — Jany  29tb  16Gf.] 

Lett  it  be  directed  to  y®  Sollicitor. 

State  Papers,  Domestic,  Car.  II,  vol.  Ixxxviii,  No.  22. 

This  letter  is  endorsed  “Sr  Jo.  Prettyman.” 

2  Q 


314 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ipretgman  of  33ucfungl)amsf)irf. 


The  Ven.  John  Pretyman,  D.D.,  S.T.P.,  Archdeacon  and  Precentor  of=pAnne,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Henry  Kedington,  of 


Lincoln;  presented  by  Mr.  Pitt,  c.  1790,  to  Prebend  of  Norwich;  Rector 
of  Shotley,  co.  Suffolk,  1784.  Bapt.  at  Bury,  1752  ;  ob.  1817 ;  bur.  in 
Lincoln  Cathedral.  M.I.  See  Pedigree,  p.  307. 


Sudbury,  co.  Suffolk ;  born  21  Jan.  1759  ;  mar. 
at  Sudbury,  1784;  died  29  July  1810;  bur.  in 
Norwich  Cathedral.  M.I. 


Elizabeth  Anne, 
1st  dau.,  died  un¬ 
mar.  1812,  aged 
25  ;  bur.  in  Nor¬ 
wich  Cathedral. 
M.I. 


Hariet,  2d  dau.,  born 
1788  ;  mar.  Warner 
Wright,  of  Norwich, 
M.D. ;  ob.  15  Dec. 
1870;  M.I.  Norwich 
Cathedral. 


Rev.Canon  John  Pretyman,  M.A.,  Rector  of  Sher-=pDorothy  Jane,  da.  of  Rad- 


rington,  co.  Bucks  ;  St.  John’s  Coll.,  Camb  ;  Vicar 
of  Chiswick,  1809-11 ;  Rector  of  Sherrington, 
Vicar  of  Winwick  _  J.P.,  co.  Bucks ;  Preb.  of  Lin¬ 
coln,  1810;  bapt.  ’at  Rouglram,  15  Nov.  1785; 
died  22  Nov.  1842;  bur.  at  Sherrington.  M.I. 


c-lyffe  Sidebothom,  of  Sut¬ 
ton  CourtHouse, Chiswick; 
mar.  there  14  June  1814; 
died  31  Aug.  1873,  aged 
81 ;  bur.  at  Sherrington. 


Henry  George,  2d 
son,  born  1790, 
died  1807  ;  bur.  in 
Bristol  Cathedral. 
M.I. 


Matilda  Frances,  1st  dau.,  born  1819, 
died  24  May  1890,  bur.  at  Tenby  ; 
mar.  1841,  Sir  William  Milman,  Bart., 
of  Levaton  in  Woodland,  co.  Devon. 


Harriet  Jane,  2d  dau.,  born  1822,  died  April 
1901,  bur.  at  Aldowrie,  N.B. ;  mar.  1852,  Charles 
Fraser  Tytler,  I.S.C.,  J.P.,D.L.,  of  Balmain  and 
Aldowrie  Castle,  co.  Inverness ;  left  issue. 


Eleanor  Anne,  3d  dau.,  born  1823  ;  living  at 
Highlittleton,  co.  Som.,  1904;  mar.  1848, 
Capt.  Horace  Hayes,  of  Towermore,  co. 
Cork,  late  46th  Reg.  and  Ceylon  Rifles. 


Rev.  John  Radclyffe  Pretyman,  M.A.,  Vicar  of; 
Aylesbury,  co  Bucks,  1st  son ;  Scholar  of  Trin. 
Coll.,  Oxon.,  1834  ;  presented  to  Vicarage  of 
Aylesbury  1842,  resigned  1853  ;  author  of  works  on 
Education,  Religion  and  Poor  Laws  ;  born  at  Sher¬ 
rington,  20  July  1815  ;  died  2  Dec.  1899,  bur.  in 
Bournemouth  Cemetery. 


Edward  John,  2d  son,  Lieut. 
R.N.;  born  1847,  died  unmar. 
20  Feb.  1871 ;  bur.  at  Port 
Royal,  Jamaica. 


Mary  Amelia,  only 
dau.  ;  living  at 
Richmond  Lodge, 
Bournemouth , 1904. 


'Amelia,  2d  dau.  of 
Thomas  Tin  dal,  of 
Prebendal  House, 
Aylesbury ;  mar. 
there  7  Feb.  1844 ; 
died  5  July  1884, 
bur.  in  Bourne¬ 
mouth  Cemetery. 


Rev.  Henry  George  Middle- 
ton  Pretyman,  M.A.,  2d  son, 
Rector  of  Lowick,  co.  North- 
ton,  presented  1856;  Oriel 
Coll.,  Oxford  ;  M.A.  1843. 
Born  at  Sherrington  18  Sept. 
1817  ;  died  11  May  1870 ; 
bur.  at  Lowick. 


=f-Lucy  Emily,  da. 
and  coh.  of  Rev. 
Chas.  Sheffield, 
of  Flixborough, 
co.  Line.  Mar. 
1848,  died  21 
Aug.  1878,  bur. 
at  Lowick. 


Edward  Lee,  3d 
son,  46th  Reg. ; 
entered  R.M.A., 
Woolwich,  1844; 
bur.atSt.Peter- 
Port,  Guernsey, 
21  Jan.  1847, 
ast.  18,  unmar. 


Capt.  Chas.  Henry  Sheffield  Pretyman,  R.N.,  1st 
son,  born  19  Nov.  1850;  entered  Royal  Navy  1864, 
retired  Feb.  1896 ;  living  at  Maidenhead  1904  ; 
mar.  at  Cathedral,  Exeter,  Jan.  1890,  Agnes,  1st 
da.  of  Gen.  Fitzroy  Fremantle,  C.B.,  late  Cold¬ 
stream  Guards,  of  Chuffs,  Maidenhead. 


Ernest  Sheffield,  Lt. 
60th  Rifles ;  died 
when  serving  in  In¬ 
dia,  1  Oct.  1884,  un¬ 
mar.;  bur.  at  Feroze- 
pure. 


Mary, only 
dau. ;  died 
unmar., 
buried  at 
Lowick 
1864. 


Major-Gen.  Sir  George  Tindal  Pretyman,  C.B.,  K.C.M.G.,  1st  son,= 
Royal  ArtiRery ;  1865,  medal,  two  clasps,  Canada;  A.D.C.  and  Mil. 
Secty.  to  Gen.  Sir  Fredk.  Roberts,  Afghan  War,  1878-80;  thrice 
mentioned  in  despatches,  medal  with  three  clasps  and  bronze  star 
for  Kandahar;  C.B.,  1896;  served  in  South  African  War;  Mil. 
Gov.  Orange  Free  State,  1900 ;  mentioned  in  despatches,  medal 
and  four  clasps ;  knighted  1901  ;  1st  Class  Dist.,  India,  1901 ; 
born  at  Aylesbury,  1  Mar.  1845  ;  living  1904 ;  command  in  India. 


Winifred,  younger 
dau.  of  Frederick 
Locke,  J.P.,  D.L., 
of  Dane  House,  Sit- 
tingbourne,  Kent ; 
mar.  at  Simla,  In- 
|  dia,  25  June  1889  ; 
living  1904. 


William  Pretyman,  3d  son,  born; 
at  Aylesbury  23  April  1849 ;  1877, 
member  of  expedition  to  Borneo 
and  Soolo  to  treat  with  those 
Sultans  for  the  now  territory  of 
BritishNorth  Borneo, subsequent¬ 
ly  Political  Resident  there ;  living 
at  Bournemouth  1904. 


-Jean,  only  da. 
of  Samuel  Re¬ 
mington,  of 
llion.,  N.Y. 
Mar.  at  St. 
John,  Larch - 
mont  Manor, 
N.Y..  U.S.A., 
26  June  1883. 


George  Frederick, 1st  son, 
born  8  Sept.  1891  at  Ka- 
sauli,  Himalayas. 


Edward  Radclyffe, 
born  29  No  v.  1894  at 
Umballa,  India. 


Margaret  Amelia,  born 
at  Albany,  N.Y.,  17 
April  1884. 


Maurice  William,  1st  son,  born  at  Edge- 
water,  Illinois,  U.S.A.,  12  Aug.  1889 ; 
entered  Marlborough  College  1903. 


Frank  Remington,  2d 
son,  born  Edgewater, 
Ill.,  17  Feb.  1891. 


PRETYMAN  OF  B ACTON. 


315 


Prrtgman  of  SiSElrtfjcrticn. 


1.  Elizabeth  Wilson,  ot‘  .  .  .  .,=pGeoi-ge  Pretyman,  of  Bacton,  ob.=j=2.  Susan,  dau.  of  Thomas  Tyrrell,  of  Gripping,  Sufi'.; 
co.  Suffolk  ;  mar.  before  1633.  |  1688.  See  Pedigree,  pp.  306,  307.  I  born  1607  ;  bur.  at  Bacton  Church,  1674.  M.I. 

/k  j 

Pretyman  op  Bacton. 


Clere,  bapt. 
at  Bacton 
1640;  Will 
1699  Arch. 
Sud. 


Susan,  bapt. 
1641 ;  mar.,  1, 
Robt. Brooke ; 
2,  Robt.  Cud- 
den  ;  d.  1728. 


- i - — — i - 

Dorothie,  Anne,  bapt.  1647  ;  mar. 
bapt.1644;  JolmFrei'e,  of  Finning- 
mar.Thos.  ham  Hall,  Ar.,  1669 ; 
Smythe ;  bur.  at  Bacton  Church, 
died  1728.  1724.  M.I. 


l - 

Francis,  of  Wether- 
den,  bapt.  1685;  Will, 
Arch.  Sud.  ;  bur. 
1759,  s.p. 


Nunn  P re ty man, =p A nn,  dau.  of 


of  Laxfield ;  bapt. 
1680,  bur.  1746  at 
Laxfield. 


Thos.  Ross,  of 
Reede,  bur.  at 
Laxfield  1758. 


Eliza¬ 

beth, 

bapt. 

1676. 


I 


1.  Eliz.=rTyrrell  Pretyman, =j=2  .  Mary-f3.  A  n  n  e=j=4.  Sarah,  dau. 


Nunn, bur. 
atW  ether- 
den  1685. 


Tyrrell, 
d.  1695. 


only  son,  of  We¬ 
therden  &  Gray’s 
Inn  ;  b.  1643,  bur. 
at  W  etherden 1725. 

Steagall, 
of  Henis- 
ton,  died 
1700. 

j  - - 

Robert,  of  Lon  g=f- Elizabeth, 


Melford,  born 
1683,  bur.  at 
Ipswich  1771. 


dau.  of 
Wm.  Bur¬ 
ton,  of 
London. 


Ride,  bur. 
atWether- 
den  1707. 


Anne,  mar. 
Geo.  Irwine, 
of  Wether- 
den,  1721. 


of  Danl.  Wald- 
grave,  bur.  at 
Wetherden 
1726. 


- 1 

George. 


Susan,  mar. 
Wm.  Raffe. 


Mary,  mar. 
Robert  Le¬ 
man  ,  of 
Brampton. 


■ — i - 

Anne,  mar. 
John  Elmy, 
of  Beccles, 
1744. 


” — I - 1 


Susan,  mar. 
Jo.  Clover. 

Jane. 


George  Prety¬ 
man,  of  Eye, 
Solicitor ;  died 
1803,  set.  92,  s.p. 


Ill  I 

Susan,  bapt.  Tyrrell,  said  to  have  emigrated  Robert, 
at  Bury  1718.  to  West  Indies  ;  bapt.  at  Bury,  bapt.  at 
1720 ;  mar.  at  Palgrave,  Norf.,  Bury 
Thomas,  3d  s.  1707,'  Sarah  Lambert.  172L 


Dorothy,  mar. 

1,  Wm.  Rice; 

2,  Thos.  Quan- 
trill. 


I - - - — r- - - - - 

Rev.  Nunn  Pretyman,  B.A.,  John’s  Rev.  Thos.  Pretyman,  Rector  of  Frostenden  ;  B.A., 
Coll.,  Camb. ;  Rector  of  Cotton;  Will  Peterborough,  Camb. ;  bur.  at  Frostenden  1756,  set. 
1790,  C.C.,  Norwich;  bur.  at  Cotton  43;  mar.  Mary,  dau.  of  Waldergrave  Alexander,  of 
Church  1792,  set.  95.  M.I.  Bedingham.  All  issue  died  young. 


i 

Robert  Pretyman,  of  Wing-=j=Ann,  dau.  of 
field  Castle,  in  Suffolk;  bap.  B.  Hatchen, 
1717  ;  bur.  1801,  set.  84.  of  Cratfield  ; 

ob.  1814. 


% 


Hatchen  Nunn  Pretyman, 
Brookdish,  d.  1796,  aet.  38. 


ofT=Martha  Cotton,  of  Weybread; 
bur.  at  Wingfield,  1833. 


Robert  Pretyman,  of  St.  Mary  Stoke,  Ipswich,  died=j=Mary  Suggate, 


1821,  set.  59  ;  bar.  at  Belstead. 


d.  1837. 


i - 

Sarah  Jane,  mar.  Rev.  Thos. 
Cook  Kemp,  of  East  Meon, 
Hants.  See  Ped.,  p.  237. 


- 1 - - 

Robert  Pretyman,  of  Eye, 
unmar.  ;  bur.  at  Wing¬ 
field  1863,  cet.  77. 


- 1 

Nunn  Richard  Prety¬ 
man,  nnmar.  ;  bur.  at 
Wingfield  1808,  set.  23. 


i - 1 — 

Mary  Jane,  mar.  Alex.  Susan,  mar.  James 
Stamford,  of  Badding-  White,  of  Lt.  Sutton, 
ham,  1813.  1817. 


i  i  1  1  . 

Captain  Richard  Prety-  Capt.  George  Prety-  Charles, of  John,=f  Eliz.,  dau.  Robert  Pretyman,  2d  son,  mar.  Capt.Wm. Pretyman, 


man,  19th  Royal  Reg.  man,  Royal  Navy ;  Ipswich ;  of 

Nat.  Inf.  ;  mar.  Mary  Lieut.,  1815 ;  died  at  died  s.p.  Rams- 

Short,  at  Madras;  died  Ipswich  1868,  s.p.  1874.  holt. 

s.p. 

- - - - - T" 

Elizabeth,  mar.  Nunn  S.  Brewster,  Sarah, 

of  Bardfield,  Essex.  B.  F.  1 


of  John  Sarah,  dau.  of  Wm.  Helden,  R.N. , mar.  1846  Cath- 
Felgate,of  1818;  left  issue  male,  Charles  &  erine,  dau.  of  Lieut. 
Bawdsey.  William,  living.  Tasmania  1869.  Alex.  Webb,  R.N. ; 

d.  May  1865  s.p.m. 


mar.  John  Jane,  mar.  Thos.  H.  Waller, 

'.  Todd.  Rector  of  Waldringfield. 


Will  of  Francis  Pretyman,  of  Wetherden  (Arch  Sudbury,  376,  Dalton  II),  dated  1  March  1759. 
I  give  to  the  Revd  Nunn  Pretyman  and  to  Susan,  dau.  of  William  and  Susan  Raffe,  linen  and  silk  in 
hutch,  etc. ;  to  Dorothy  Raffe ;  to  Susan  and  Jane  Pretyman  of  Cotton ;  to  other  children  of  William  and 
Susan ;  to  Eliz.  Rice ;  to  Mary,  Thomas,  William,  Tyrell,  and  Pretyman  Quantrill,  children  of  my  sister 
Dorothy  Quantrill,  dec1*,  of  Badwell  Ash.  To  my  brother  in  law  George  Irwin,  of  Wetherden,  and  his  son 
George.  To  Brother  Robert  Pretyman,  of  Long  Melford,  and  brother  George  Pretyman,  of  Slirubling  Hall, 
both  in  co.  Suffolk,  house  and  yards  being  in  Bacton,  to  be  equally  divided 

2  Q2 


316 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


l\o|ial  Descent,  Bnigfman -^rrtyman. 


Edward  IY,  King  of  England.=j=Elizabeth  Wydeville. 


Elizabeth,  Queen  of  England.=FHenry  VII,  King  of  England. 


Mary  Tudor,  Queen  Consort  of  France.=j=Cbarles  Brandon,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  K.G. 


Lady  Frances  Brandon.=j=Henry  Gray,  Duke  of  Suffolk,  K.G. 


Lady  Catherine  Grey.=f=Edward  Seymour,  Earl  of  Hertford. 


Edward  Seymour, Lord  Beauchamp.=j=Honora  Rogers. 


Francis,  Lord  Seymour  of  Trowbridge.=p  Frances  Prinne. 


*  Charles,  2nd  Lord  Sey  triour.-f-Hon.  Elizabeth  Alington. 


Charles,  6th  Duke  of  Somerset. =j=Lady  Charlotte  Finch,  2d  wife. 


Lady  Frances  Seymour.=pJohn,  Marquis  of  Granby. 


Charles,  4th  Duke  of  Rutland,  K.G.=j=Lady  Mary  Isabella  Somerset. 


John  Henry,  6th  Duke  of  Rutland,  K.G.=j=Lady  Elizabeth  Howard. 


Lady  Elizabeth  Frederica  Manners.=j= Andrew  Robert  Drummond. 


Frederica  Mary  Adeliza.=j=Riehard  George,  9th  Earl  of  Scarborough. 


Lady  Ida  Anabella  Frances  L um ley.  George  Cecil  Orlando,  4th  Earl  of  Bradford. 


Lady  Beatrice  Adine  Bridgeman.=j=Ernest  George  Pretyman,  M.P.,  of  Orwell  Park. 


George  Marcus  Tomline  Pretyman. 


Herbert  Ernest  Pretyman.  Walter  Frederic  Pretyman. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


317 


&oyal  Brscmts,  iprctptan  of  35urluitgijam5!ju*r. 

Henry  III,  King  of  England.=rEleanor,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Raymond,  Count  of  Provence. 


Edmund  Plantagenet,  2d  surviving^ Blanche,  Dowager  Queen  of  Navarre,  dau.  of  Count  Edward  I,  King-pEleanor,  dau.  of  Ferdinand 


son,  Earl  of  Lancaster  and  Derby. 


Artois,  son  of  Louis  YIII,  King  of  France. 


Henry  Plan  tagenet,=f=Maud,  dau.  and  heir  of 


Earl  of  Leicester. 


Sir  Patrick  C haworth . 


Lady  Eleanor  Plan-^Richard  Fitz  Alan, 
tagenet.  I  Earl  of  Arundel. 


England, d.  1307.  |  III,  King  of  Castile. 

_ i 


Edward  II,  King=j=Isabella,  dau.  of  Philip 
of  England.  IY,  King  of  France. 


Edward  III,  King  of=f=Philippa  of  Hain- 
England.  I  ault. 


Humphrey  de  Bohun,=pThe  Princess  Eliza- 
4th  Earl  of  Hereford.  I  beth  Plantagenet. 


Hugh  de  Courtenay, 2d  Earl=pMargaret  de 


of  Devon;  died  1377. 


Bohun. 


Richard  Fitz  Alan, =pElizabeth  de  Bohun,  da.  Lionel,  Duke  of  Clar-: 


Earl  of  Arundel. 


of  Wm.,  Earl  of  North¬ 
ampton. 


Lady  Elizabeth  Fitz  Alan, =j=Sir Robert  Gou- 
Dowager  Duchess  of  Nor-  I  shill,  of  Hover- 
folk.  j  ingham,  Notts. 

_ _ i 

r 

Joan  Goushill,  dau.^Sir  Thomas  Stanley, 


and  coheir. 


1st  Baron  Stanley. 


Elizabeth  Stanley,  sister^Sir Richard Moly- 


of  the  1st  Earl  of  Derby. 


neux,  of  Sefton. 


Sir  Thos.  Moly-^Anne,  da.  &  heir  of  Thos. 
neux,  of  Sefton.  I  Dutton,  of  Dutton,  co. 
Lane. 


Sir  William  Moly-=pJane,  dau.  &  heir  of  Sir 
neux,  of  Sefton.  Rich.Rugge,  ofRugge. 


ence,  3d  son. 


■  Elizabeth  de  Burgh, 
dau.  of  the  Earl  of 
Ulster. 


LadyPhilippa=f  Edmund  Mortimer,  3d  Earl 


Plantagenet. 


of  March. 


LadyElizabeth=j=Sir  Henry  Percy,  K.G. 
Mortimer.  j  (Hotspur),  heir  to  the 
Duke  of  Northumberland. 


Lady  Elizabeth  Percy.=f=John,  7th  Lord  de 
Clifford,  K.G. 


l — 


_ i 


Thomas,  Lord=pJoan,  da.  of  Thomas,  Lord 
Clifford.  I  Dacre,  of  Gillesland. 


John,  Lord  Clifford. -r Margaret,  da.  of  Hy., 
I  Lord  Vesey. 


Sir  Philip  Courtenay, =j=Anne,  dau.  of  Sir 
6th  son.  I  Thomas  Wake. 


Sir  John  Courtenay,  of=f=Jane,  da.  of  Sir 
Powderham,  6th  son.  I  Alex.  Champer- 
|  noun. 

i - 1 

Sir  Philip  Courtenay ,=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  of 


of  Powderham. 


Walter,  Lord  Hun- 
gerford,  K.G. 


Sir  William  Courteney  ,=pMargaret,  dau.  of 


of  Powderham. 


Wm., LordBon  vile. 


Sir  William  Courteney ,=j=Cecilia,  dau.  of  Sir 


of  Powderham. 


John  Cheney. 


Sir  William  Courtenay, =pMargaret,  da.of  Sir 
“  The  Great  ”  ;  d.  1535.  I  Rich.  Edgecumb. 


Sir  Richard  Moly-=j=Eleanor,  dau.  of  Sir 


neux,  of  Sefton. 


Alex.  Radclyffe,  of  Ord- 
shall.  Lane. 


William  Molyneux,=j=Bridget,  dau.  of  John 
ob.  vitA  patris.  Caryl,  of  Warnham, 

I  Sussex. 

i - 1 

Sir  Richard  Moly-=i=Frances,  da.  of  Sir  Gil- 


neux,  1st  Baronet. 


bert  Gerard,  of  Sud¬ 
bury,  co.  Suffolk. 


Henry,  Lord  Clifford, ^Florence,  da.of  Hen. 
“  The  Shepherd.”  I  Pudsey,  of  Bolton. 


Dorothy  Cliffords 


:Sir  Hugh  Lowtlier,  of 
Cumberland,  K.B. 


Sir  Richard=j=Frances,  da.  of  John  Middle- 
Lowther.  I  ton,  of  Middleton,  Lane. 


Sir  Christopher=pEleanor,  da.of  Wm.Mus- 


Sir  Peter  Courtenay, -=pElizabeth,  da.  &  heir 
of  Ugbrooke,  Devon,  of  Robert  Shilston. 

*— 

Anthony  Clifford,  of=p  Anne  Courtenay,  da. 
Borscombe,  3d  son.  I  and  heir. 


Thomas  Clifford, =t= Anne,  dau.  and  coheir 


of  Ughbrooke. 


of  Hugh  Steplehill. 


stead,  co.  Notts. 

Lowther. 

grave,  of  Hayton  Castle. 

died  1665. 

J 

L 

Sabina  Clifford, =f=Mathew  Hales,  of  Efford, 
co.  Devon ;  died  1656. 


Alice  Byron.=pSir  John  Radclyffe,  of  Ord- 
shall. 


Sir  John=f  Eleanor,  dau.  of  William  Flem-  Rev.  John  Tindal,  D.D.,=pAnnie Hales, mar. 


Lowtlier. 


ming,  of  Rydale. 


Rector  of  Beere  Ferris. 


1655. 


Sir  Alexander  Radclyffe, -rJane,  da.  of  Ed- 
of  Ordshall.  ward  Shute. 


Sir  William  Lowther,=j=Joan,  da.of  William 
of  Swillington,3dson.  I  Busfield,  of  Leeds. 


B 


Rev.  John  Tindal,  Rector  of  St.=pElizabeth 


Ives,  and  of  Cornwood,  Devon. 


Prideaux. 


318 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


B 


C 

-j 


Robert  Radclyffe, =j= Anne,  ,dau.  and  heir  of  Agnes  Lowther.=pWiRiainDawson,  of  North  Rev.  N icholas  Tindal,  Translator  of-j-A  nne 


of  Withenshaw. 


Roland  Eyre,  of  Brad- 
way,  co.  Derby. 


Ferriby. 


Rapin  ;  Chap.  Greenwich  Hospital.  I  Keate. 


Alexander  Radclyffe,— Elizabeth,  da.of John  Major  George  Dawson, =j=Dorothy,  da.  of  Jn.  George  Tindal,  Captain— Diana  Poekling- 


of  Foxdenton,  Lane. 


Bagshaw,  of  Litton, 
co.  Derby. 


of  North  Ferriby. 


Heaton,  of  Faby.  Royal  Navy  ;  d.  1777.  I  ton  ;  d.  1806. 


Mary  Radc!yffe.=T=Rev.  Samuel  Sidebothom, 
I  of  Middleton,  Lane. 


Anne  Dawson  .=j=Kingsford  Yenner,  of  Bo-  Robert  Tindal,  of=j=Sarah,  only  child  of 


senden,  Kent. 


Chelmsford. 


Radeliffe  Sidebothom,  of  Sutton  Court,  Chiswick.=f=Anne  Yenner,  2d  wife. 


John  Pococ.k. 


Dorothy  Jane  Sidebotkom.=-rRev.  John  Fretyman,  M.A.,  Prebendary  of  Aylesbury. 


Thomas  Tindal,  4th  son.=pMary  A.  Uhthoff. 


- -  !  | - 

Rev.  Henry  G.  Pretyman,  M.A.,  Rector=pLucy  Emily,  da.  and  cob.  of  the  Rev.  John  Radclyffe  Pretyman, =j= Amelia  Tindal,  4th  da.;  mar. 


of  Lowick  in  Northton;  d.  1870. 


Rev.  Chas.  Sheffield. 


Vicar  of  Aylesbury ;  d.  1899. 


7  Feb.  1844,  d.  1884. 


Charles  Sheffield  Prety-— Agnes, da.of  Gen.  Major-Gen.  Sir  George^ Winifred,  dau.  of  William  Pretyman,  late  Po-=j=Jean,  only  da.  of 


man,  b.  1850;  Captain  Fitzroy  Freman-  Tindal  Pretyman,  C.B., 

Royal  Navy.  tie,  C.B.  K.C.M.G. 


Fredk. Locke, J.P.  litical  Resident  in  Borneo  ; 
and  D.L.  living  at  Bournemouth,  1904. 


Sml.  Remington 
of  Ilion.,  N.Y. 


George  Frederic.  Edward  Radclyffe. 


Maurice  William,  b.  1889. 


Frank  Remington.  Margaret  Amelia 


Still  of  Sljontas  frdtoman,  1600. 

Thomas  Pretyman  the  Elder  of  Bacton,  the  5th  day  of  December,  1600.  To  the  poor  who 
attend  my  burial  28  each.  I  bequeath  to  my  wife  Rachel  £53.  13.  4  issuing  out  of  lands,  etc.,  in  Cotton 
to  be  paid  yearly,  also  household  effects.  To  my  son  Robert  Pretyman  £100  ;  to  my  son  John 
Pretyman  £100 ;  and  to  my  daurs :  Martha  and  Mary  £200  each.  To  my  son  in  law  Robfc  Richmond ; 
my  grandchild  Richard  Woodward ;  Thos :  Armyger  and  Thos :  Auston  my  grand  children,  and  all  my 
grand  children.  To  my  daughters  Martha  and  Mary  aforesaid,  and  daughters  Woodward,  Gooche,  Armiger. 
To  brother  William  Pretyman;  nephew  John  Wartlock ;  Robert  Clarke  my  kinsman;  my  niece  lioldero; 
and  to  my  sister  Whatlock.  Residuary  legatee  &  executor  my  eldest  son  Thomas  Pretyman ;  the  exorship 
conditionally  upon  his  properly  carrying  out  sd  Will  ;  otherwise  my  wife  Rachel  and  my  bro’  Harwell 
of  Felsham ;  Overseer  my  brother  John  Pretyman.  Signed  Thomas  Pretyman. 

Original  Will,  Norwich  Consistory,  1600,  file  118. 


Kill  of  (Seorge  freeman,  1686. 

George  Pretyman  of  Bacton,  co.  Suffolk,  gentleman,  this  14th  day  of  March  1686.  To  Peter 
Pretyman  my  sonne ;  Thomas  Pretyman  my  sonne ;  Tirell  Pretyman  my  sonne ;  .  Cudden  my  sonne 

in  law ;  John  Frere  my  sonne  in  law.  To  George  Pretyman  my  grandson,  whom  I  make  my  sole 
executor,  all  my  personal  property.  The  will  was  proved  in  the  Court  of  the  Archdeacon  of  Sudbury 
22d  August  1688. 


PRETYMAN  OF  BACTON. 


319 


MtU  of  Eacljel  ^rctgman,  1626* 

Rachell  Prettiman  of  Thelvetham,  co.  Suffolk,  widow,  hoping  to  be  saved  by  the  blood- 
shedding  of  Jesus  Christ,  12th  October  1626.  Vnto  Martha  Smyth,  my  daughter,  a  piece  of 
growgryn  bought  for  me  to  make  a  gowne.  To  Rachel  Baxter,  my  grandchild,  tenne  poundes 
which  is  in  my  cozen  Henrie  Prettyman’s  hand.  To  John  Prettiman  my  grandchild ;  Dorothie 
Baxter  my  grandchild ;  Rachell  Prettiman  daughter  of  Henry  Prettiman  ;  Thomas  Prettiman ; 
Thomas  Alston;  John  Alston;  Dorothie  Alston;  Jane  Alston;  Marie  Alston;  Elenor  Alston. 
To  the  poore  of  Thelvethan  and  Mac  ton.  William  Gooch  my  sonne  in  la  we,  gentleman,  of 
Tuddenham,  to  be  sole  executor  and  residuary  legatee.  This  will  was  proved  at  Bury, 
26th  June  1627,  by  the  Executor.  Arch.  Sudb.  Register  1627,  fo.  2. 


Mill  of  (El m  $r£tmnan,  1095. 

Clere  Pretyman  of  Bacton,  14th  Decr  1695.  I  give  to  my  brother  Tirell  Pretyman,  £50; 
to  Tirell  Pretyman  son  of  my  said  brother  £20;  to  Nunn  Pretyman  my  nephew,  son  of  sd 
brother  £20,  to  be  paid  after  his  apprenticeship  with  Thos :  Ellis  of  Cotton,  practitioner  of 
Physick.  To  Robert  <fc  Francis  Pretyman,  two  younger  children  of  said  Brother,  at  their  ages 
of  21,  £20  each.  To  Robert  Cudden,  Thomas  Smythe  and  John  Frere  my  brothers  in  law  £10 
each.  To  my  three  sisters  £5  each  per  annum.  To  Ellen  Cudden,  da.  of  Robert ;  Robert 
Smythe,  George  ffrere  son  of  John,  my  Godchildren,  £40  each,  to  be  paid  after  the  death  of 

sd  sisters.  To  all  the  children  of  sd  sisters  £5  each  and  £20  each  after  the  death  of  their 

mothers.  To  my  god  daughter  Anne  Pretyman,  daur.  of  Mr  Thomas  Pretyman  of  Sporle1  in 

Norfolk,  £5.  To  God  daughter  Anne  Todd,  dau.  of  John  Todd  of  Fenningham.  To  Edward 

ffrere  of  Wickham  Skeith  £6  ;  to  Anne  ffrere  dau.  of  sd  Frere.  To  John  Algar  of  Cotton ; 

Susan  Jessup,  Widow,  his  sister.  To  the  Churchwardens  of  Bacton  for  the  poorest  of  the 

Parish.  To  the  ffeofees  of  the  Parish  of  Bacton  £5  at  interest.  All  payments  at  the  new 
Mansion  House  of  sd  brother  in  law  John  Frere,  called  Finningham  Hall.  Silver  candlesticks  to 
sister  Frere,  and  to  her  daughter  Anne  my  necklace  of  pearls  of  ten  strings.  Jewels,  plate,  linen 

and  cloths  to  be  divided  among  my  three  sisters.  To  John  Frere  my  brother  in  law,  my  sole 

Exor.,  £40. 

Codicil  dated  Feby.  16  1699.  To  Robert  and  Francis,  two  younger  sons  of  brother  Tyrell 
Pretyman;  to  Margaret  Clerke,  Wid.  ;  to  Mary,  wife  of  John  Dains.  Proved  26  March  1700 
by  John  Frere.  Arch.  Sudbury,  fo.  387,  Coc. 


(Mill  of  JItartija  prstmnan,  1728, 

Martha  Pretyman  of  Bury  Sfc  Edmunds  single  woman,  10  Aug.  1728.  I  give  to  Ann 
Craske  of  Bury  Sl  Edmunds,  Widow,  my  niece,  and  to  her  heirs  all  my  lands  in  reversion.  To 
Elizabeth  Pretyman  in  Ipswich  my  Niece.  To  Jane  Pretyman  my  sister  in  law.  Anne-  Craske 
residuary  legatee  and  sole  Executrix.  Proved  20  Aug.  1728,  Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury. 


1  Half  brother.  See  pedigree  page  307. 


320 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


$rctmnan  Inscriptions  in  IB  acton  ffibnrrl). 

HERE  VNDER  THIS  STONE  LIETH 
WILLIAM  PRETYMAN  THE  SONNE 
OF  WILLIAM  PRETYMAN  WHOE 
DIED  THE  FIRST  DAYE  OF  IANNA- 
RIE  '  AN  •  DO  -  1586. 

HERE  VNDER  THIS  STONE  LYETH 
IOHN  PRETIMAN  THE  SONNE 
OF  THOMAS  PRETIMAN.  HE  LIVED 
45  YEARS  AND  DEPARTED  THIS  LIFE 
THE  SECONDE  DAYE  OF  APRILL 
ANNO  DIE.  1589. 

“  This  inscription  now  hidden  by  seats.”  Davy’s  Suffolk  Collection « :  Hartismere  Hundred , 
}>.  40,  written  in  the  earlier  years  of  the  nineteenth  century.  (Date  in  Bacton  Register,  1587). 

HERE  LYETH  IOHN  PRETYMAN  SONNE  OF 
PETER  PRETYMAN.  HE  HAD  ISSVE  ONE 
DAVGHTER,  AND  LIVED  52  YEARES  AND 
DIED  THE  FIRST  OF  IVLYE  ANNO  1593. 

The  above  is  on  a  brass  plate.  “  The  south  aisle  of  Bacton  church  probably  belonged  to 
the  family  of  Pretyman.”  Copinger’s  Suffolk  Records  and  M 'IS. ,  vol.  i,  p.  78. 


Inscriptions  in  Sriffbli)  Cbnrclj,  ©lone. 


Heete  Lyeth  The  Body  of  ■  The  Body  of 

The  Right  Worshipfull  ....  Mary  Pretty  man 

Sir  John  Prettyman,  Knight,  buryed1  the  .  .  Dec  .  .  .  38. 

Who  was  buried  the  22ntl  day 
of  Dec.'  [1638.] 

Much  of  the  lettering  of  the  latter  tablet  is  effaced,  and  part  of  it  buried  under  the 
chancel  wall. 


Inscriptions  in  Itpludl  Cljttrcl),  Jlorfolk. 

Maria  uxor :  Tristr  Dvmond  Armig :  filia  Petri 
Prettyman  de  Bacton  in  Com  :  Suff :  Gent : 
obit  -15  Julij  1663  annoq :  retat.  suae.  57. 

Arms,  on  a  brass  shield -Argent,  on  five  lozenges  in  fesse  Gules  between  three  mullets 
Sable  five  escallops  of  the  first  (for  Djnnond). 

Bryant’s  Hundred  of  Clackclose,  Norfolk ,  p.  292. 

1  Lady  Pretyman  buried  Dec.  2,  1638;  her  husband,  Sir  John  Pretyman,  buried  22  Dec.  1638.  See 
Driffield  Register. 


llkaumont  of  JMtieston. 


Armorial  Searings. 

At  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664  (Harl.  MS.  1085)  the  shield  of  John  Beaumont  of 
Bildeston  was  Azure  semee  of  fleurs  de  lis,  a  lion  rampant  Or ;  on  the  lion’s  shoulder  a  mullet 
for  difference  :  Crest,  a  lion  passant  Or,  also  with  a  mullet  on  the  shoulder.  The  same  arms 
were  allowed  to  Joseph  Beaumont  of  Hadley,  differenced  by  a  martlet,  and  to  William  Beaumont 
of  Hadley,  with  a  crescent  on  the  lion’s  shoulder  charged  with  a  mullet. 

It  is  stated  in  connection  with  these  shields,  but  upon  insufficient  evidence,  that  these 
Beaumonts  came  “  out  of  Leicester.” 

On  the  slab  in  the  south  aisle  of  Bildeston  Church,  in  memory  of  John  Beaumont  and 
Susan  his  wife,  1641,  are  the  arms  of  Beaumont  as  above,  impaling  Ermine  a  cross  bow  erect 
for  Alabaster.  The  Beaumont  shield  appears  also  on  the  monuments  to  Joseph  Beaumont  and 
John  Beaumont  in  Hadleigh  Church,  to  Robert  Beaumont  and  William  Beaumont  in  St.  Mary 
Tower  Church,  Ipswich,  to  Charles  Beaumont  in  Witnesham  Church,  and  to  Benjamin  Beaumont 
in  Grundisburgh  Church,  all  in  the  county  of  Suffolk. 

Of  quite  another  family  was  John  Beaumont,  S.T.P.,  Rector  of  Hadleigh  and  Whatfield, 
1592-1599.  He  bore  Gules,  a  lion  rampant  within  an  orle  of  crescents  Argent,  being  the  arms 
of  Beaumont  of  Whitley,  co.  York,  quarterly  with  Argent,  on  a  bend  Sable  three  owls  of  the 
first,  for  Savile.  See  the  Tillotson  MS.,  fo.  392b,  now  in  the  custody  of  the  Society  of  Anti¬ 
quaries,  and  Foster’s  Pedigrees  of  Yorkshire  Families. 


alill  of  loljn  Ikammmt,  1545. 

In  dei  noTe,  Amen.  The  xviith  day  of  Julye  1543  and  in  ye  xxxv  yere  of  the  rayne 
of  our  soveraigne  Lord  King  Henery  the  VIII,  Bye  ye  grace  of  God  Kynge  of  Inglande, 
France  and  Ireland,  defender  of  ye  fay  the  and  suprem  heade  of  ye  catholicall  church  of  Inglande 
and  Irelande,  I,  John  Beymonte  of  Byldeston  wthin  the  comgtie  of  Suff.  doe  ordayne  and  make 
my  psent  teastement  and  last  will.  Fyrst  I  bequeth  my  soule  unto  Almightye  God,  to  our 
Ladye  Saynt  Marye  and  to  all  the  holy  company  of  Heaven,  and  my  bodye  to  have  sepulcher 
in  the  church  yarde  of  our  blessed  ladye  at  Bildeston.  To  Margaret  Beymont,  daughter  of 
mv  sonne  Robert,  iiiu  vi8  viiid,  toe  be  payde  at  her  eage  of  eyghteenth  yeares.  To  Robert 
Beymonte,  sonne  of  ye  foresayde  Robert,  xxxiii8  iiid,  at  his  eage  of  xxi  yeres.  To  John 

2  R 


322 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Beymont,  sonne  to  Thomas  Beymont,  my  sonne,  xxiij8  iiijd,  at  liis  eage  of  one  and  twentye 
yeares.  To  Agnes,  my  daughter,  xl"  and  my  wyfe’s  best  gouyrdle.  I  will  yfc  Robert,  my 
sonne,  haue  my  land  yfc  lyeth  in  Hechm,  holden  of  ye  ryght  honorable  Lorde  Byshoppe  of 
helye,  yeldinge  to  my  sonne  Rieherd  Beymonte  v1  xiijE  iiijd.  And  if  my  sonne  Roberte  refuse 
this  to  doe  and  pforme,  then  I  will  yfc  my  sonne  Rycherd  enter  and  have  the  sayd  lande 
called  Havells,  according  to  the  custom  of  ye  manor  of  Hechm,  and  to  use  it  to  his  most 
advantage.  Furthermore,  yf  my  sonne  Rieherd  be  departed  this  world,  I  will  that  my  sonne 
Robert  paye  unto  ye  eldest  chyld  of  my  sonne  Richard  iiij  inks.  The  restdue  of  the  sayd 
mony  over  and  above  ye  sayd  iiii  inks  toe  remayne  to  Robfj  my  sonne.  If  ye  sayde  Rieherd 
fortune  to  have  no  chyld  lyffing  of  his  bodye,  ye  sayd  iiii  mkes  to  be  pted  betwen  my  sonnes 
Robt  and  Thomas  Beymonte.  The  restdue  of  my  goods  and  implements  of  householde  I  put 
them  to  the  order  of  my  executors  to  bring  my  bodye  honestly  to  ye  earth.  I  ordayne  myne 
executor  of  this  will,  Robert  Beymont  my  sonne,  trusting  in  God  that  he  will  charytable 
pforme  the  same.  These  being  witnes,  Will™  Thrower,  John  Haywarde  and  Thomas  Taylor, 
with  others. 

Proved  in  the  Arcliidiaconal  Court  of  Sudbury,  November  15°,  1544. 


Mill  of  Hobart  JBeamnont,  1551. 

The  xxili  daye  of  July  1551,  and  in  the  fyfte  yere  of  Kinge  Edwarde  the  Sixte,  I, 
Roberte  Beamonte  of  Bildeston,  in  the  Countie  of  Suff,  clothyar,  calling  to  remembraunce  the 
transitorye  lif  of  man,  make  and  ordeyne  this  my  last  will.  I  will  that  Alice  my  wief  haue 
my  tenement  that  I  dwellin,  with  all  my  free  loudes  in  Byldeston,  for  her  naturall  lief.  And 
after  her  decease  I  will  [that  they]  remayne  to  Robert  Beamout  my  sonne  ;  and  for  defaulte 
of  issue  of  his  bodye,  to  Thomas  Beamont  my  sonne  ;  and  for  default  of  issue  of  his  bodye  to 
Henry  Beamont  my  sonne  ;  and  for  default  of  yssue  of  his  bodie  to  Julyan  Beamont  my  sonne. 
And  yf  it  happen  all  my  saide  sonnes  to  dye  whrate  issue,  then  I  will  said  tenement  and 
landes  remayne  to  my  next  heire  forever.  I  will  that  Alice  my  wief  shall  have  a  cotage  at 
the  townes  ende  with  a  close  called  Havelles  and  other  londes  and  medowes  in  Hecham  and 
Ketellberston.  And  after  her  decease  saide  cotage  and  Havelles  remayne  to  Robert  my  sonn, 
and  the  resydue  of  said  londes  to  Thomas  my  sonn,  and  the  medowes  in  Hecham  and  Ketell¬ 
berston  to  Henry,  my  sonn.  To  Thomas  my  sonne  with  the  bequest  of  Robert  Lofekyn  vi1  viij8 
when  he  shall  come  to  th’  age  of  xxi  yere.  To  my  son  Myknell  ten  poundes  when  he  comes 
to  said  age.  To  Margaret  my  doughter  when  xxi  ten  poundes,  with  the  bequests  of  my  father 
and  of  Robert  Lofekyn.  To  the  childe  my  wief  is  withall  ten  poundes.  My  wieffs  children, 
Alice  Boges,  Willyam  Boges  and  John  Boges.  To  John  Beamont  the  sonne  of  Thomas  Beamont 
my  brother  xxxiij8,  which  was  my  father’s  bequest.  I  make  the  said  Alice  my  wyef  my  sole 
executrix.  The  supervisors  I  ordeyn  John  Facon  of  Edwardeston  and  Thomas  Lofekyn  of 
Boxforth.  Probatum  xvij°  die  Augusti  1554. 


P.C.C.  6  More. 


BEAUMONT  OF  BILDESTON. 


323 


Mill  of  Jhiljimt  Ikaumont,  1586. 

The  xxth  daye  of  December,  1586,  I  Julion  Beamonde  of  Hadley,  in  the  county  of 
Suff.,  clothier,  doe  ordaine  this  my  last  will.  I  commend  my  sowle  into  the  handes  of  Almighty 

God,  and  my  bodye  to  the  earth  whence  I  was  taken  ovvte,  in  hope  of  the  glorious  appearing 

of  our  Savyour  Jesus  Christ.  To  Sara  my  wiffe  and  her  heires  all  my  houses  in  Hadley,  which 

I  late  boughte  of  Mr.  Edward  Clerke.  I  give  her  three  hundreth  pounds.  To  Edward 

Beamond,  my  eldest  sonne,  twoe  hundreth  pounds  at  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  To  John 

Beamond,  my  yonger  sonne,  two  hundreth  pounds  at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  To 

Sara  Beamond,  my  daughter,  one  hundreth  pounds  at  her  age  of  twenty  yeares.  To  Thomas 
Beamonde,  my  vncle,  of  Bildeston,  fower  poundes.  To  William  Boggas,  my  brother,  tenne  pounds. 
To  Mr.  Dootor  Crick,  my  brother  in  lawe,  twentye  pounds.  To  Mr.  Doctor  Chapman,  preacher 
of  the  churche  of  Deadham,  ffive  pounds.  To  Mr.  John  Holden,  preacher  of  the  Church  of 

Billesdon,  ffive  poundes.  To  vse  of  the  poore  people  of  Hadlye  tenne  poundes,  to  buye  woode  in 

the  somraer  so  that  the  poore  may  have  it  in  the  winter  for  theire  money  as  good  clieape  as  it 

was  boughte  in  the  Sohier :  and  so  to  continewe  for  ever.  To  the  Churche  of  Hadlye  the  book© 

of  Actes  and  Monumentes  of  the  churche  of  god  collected  by  Mr.  Foxe,  there  to  remaine  for 
ever.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  I  bequeath  to  Sara  my  wiffe  to  the  bringing  vpp  of  my  children  in 
the  feare  of  god,  and  to  sett  them  to  schoole  to  wrighte  and  to  reade.  I  make  [her]  my 
executor,  and  my  brother  in  lawe,  William  Wade  of  Bidleston,  to  be  my  superViso1-.  If  it  shall 
please  god  that  Sara  my  wiffe  contracte  herself  in  manage  with  any  man,  my  minde  is  that  my 
brother  in  lawe,  William  Wade,  whom  I  doe  ordayrie  my  supervisor  and  Edward  Gale,  my 

ffather  in  lawe,  shall  demaunde  a  good  assurannce  in  severall  bonds  to  eche  of  them  to  the 

performance  of  this  will.  These  being  witnesses  to  this  will  :  By  me  Michaell  Beamond,  Arthure 
Gale.  By  me  Julyon  Beamond. 

Probatum  decimo  septirao  die  January,  1586,  Juramenti  procuris  Sare  Beamond  relicti 
defuncti.  P.C.C.  1  Spencer. 


Mill  of  Jaljn  Seaumont,  1641. 

John  Beaumount  of  Bildeston  in  the  County  of  Suff,  clothier,  the  25th  of  November,  1641. 
First,  I  contend  my  soule  into  the  handes  of  God,  trusting  through  the  merrites  of  Jesus  my 
only  Saviour  to  have  free  remission  of  my  sinnes  :  next  my  body  to  Christian  buriall  in  the 
parrish  church  of  Bildeston,  soe  nerre  as  may  be  to  the  place  where  my  late  father  lyeth.  I 
give  vnto  Susan  my  wel beloved  wife  the  some  of  3001,  she  to  sufferr  my  sonne,  John  Beamount, 
quietly  to  hould  my  Mannor  of  Babbins,  wch  I  lately  purchased  of  Sr  John  Barker,  soe  soone 
as  [he]  shall  accomplish  his  age  of  fower  and  twenty  yeares,  or  his  day  of  marriage,  wth  the 
consent  of  the  said  Susan,  John  Alabaster  my  brother,  and  Edward  Beaumount,  of  Hadleigh,  my 
kinsman,  or  two  of  them.  I  would  have  said  sonne  John  brought  vpp  to  exercise  the  art  of 
clothmaking,  and  leave  [him]  the  cesternes,  waightes,  and  other  vtensills  as  are  belonging  to  the 
art.  If  said  Susan  be  minded  to  marry  againe,  she  shall  release  vnto  my  said  sonne  John  the 
dower  or  thirds  wch  shee  hath  of  the  messuages  [&c.]  which  I  have  given  unto  him.  I  give 
vnto  my  said  sone  3001  when  he  shall  have  attayned  his  full  age.  He  is  also  to  have  a  legacy 


324 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


given  him  by  his  late  grandfather,  John  Alabaster,1  gent.  Ynto  my  sonne  Michaell  2501  at 
his  age  of  xxi  yeares,  together  with  501  given  him  by  his  said  late  grandfather.  To  my  sonne 
Beniamyne  200*  at  his  age  of  xxi  yeares  [&c.].  To  my  daughter  Anne  300*  vppon  her  daye  of 
marriage.  To  Susan,  my  daughter,  wyfe  of  Willffi  Baylie,  five  poundes.  Vnto  William  Baylie 
her  sonne,  my  grandchild,  five  poundes  when  xxi.  To  my  daughter  Mary  other  2501,  together 
with  501  more  of  her  grandfather’s  guift,  when  att  her  full  age.  To  my  daughter  Sara  2501, 
and  501  to  her  as  to  the  rest  of  her  grandfather’s  guift.  Vnto  Abigaell  my  youngest  daughter 
2501  [<fcc.].  My  late  flfather  did  give  vnto  my  mother,  Margaret  Beaumount,  one  annuity  of  tenn 
poundes ;  executors  shall  paye  the  same.  Vnto  my  brother,  Samuell  Beaumount,  31,  and  to  his 
sonne  John  2*.  Vnto  my  brother,  Jonathan  Beaumount,  51,  and  to  his  sonne  Jonathan  51  at 
his  full  age.  To  John  Scarse,  sonne  of  Robert  Scarse,  my  brother-in-la  we.  My  good  friend 
Thomas  Boston,  cloth  worker,  my  brothers  in  la  we,  John  and  Thomas  Alabaster,  and  Edward 
Beaumount.  Annuity  to  my  sister  Margaret  Waltham,  widdow.  Many  messuages,  &c.,  &  lands 
in  Bildeston  &  Wattisham.  My  sonne  Michuell  Beaumount.  Farm  called  Woodhouse  in  Rattlesden 
to  Beniamine  my  sonne.  I  ordeyne  my  cosen  Mr.  Edward  Beaumount,  my  brothers  John 
Alabaster  «k  Jonathan  Beaumount  overseers,  and  John  Beaumount  my  sonne  executor. 

Tertio  die  Martii  1641,  emanavit  comissio  Susanne  Beaumount,  relicte  et  exci,  donee  Joties 
Beaumount,  filius  et  executor,  ad  vicesim  prim  retatis  sue  annu  attigeret. 

P.C.C.  35  Campbell. 


Mill  of  Ikamnont,  1645. 

Edward  Beaumont,  of  Hadley,  co.  Suff.,  clothier,  the  23d  of  April  1645.  I  will  the  surhe 
of  £10  to  be  distributed  amongst  the  poore  of  Hadley  where  I  doe  now  dwell  I  doe  give  vnto 
Alice  my  loveing  wife  £100,  and  vnto  my  sonne  John  Beaumont  £100.  Vnto  Sara  Beaumont 
my  grandchilde,  daughter  of  my  late  deceased  sonne  Phillip  Beaumont,  £100  at  her  age  of  twenty 
yeares.  Vnto  my  sister  Sara  Beaumont  and  my  brother  John  Beaumont  [to  each]  flfortie  shillinges 
to  make  them  ringes.  All  the  rest  of  my  estate  I  doe  leave  vnto  my  sonne  Joseph  Beaumont 
for  his  ow  n  vse  and  behoofe ;  except  the  half  part  of  all  my  plate,  lynnen  and  houshould  stuff, 
the  wch  I  doe  give  vnto  Alice  my  wife.  I  doe  hereby  expresse  and  declare  that  my  wooll,  yarne, 
■cloth,  and  other  things  belonging  to  the  trade  of  clotheing  shall  come  wholy  vnto  my  sonne 
Joseph  Beaumont,  whom  I  ordaine  full  and  sole  executor.  And  I  make  my  brother  John  Beaumont, 
overseer,  to  be  ayding  my  executor  with  his  councell. 

As  touching  my  lands,  I  devise  vnto  the  said  Sara  Beaumont,  my  grandchilde,  my  messuage 
in  Hadley  which  I  late  bought  from  my  sonne  Phillip  Beaumont.  To  my  sonne,  John  Beaumont, 
one  annuity  of  £10  out  of  my  messuages  in  Elmsett,  Rattlesden  and  Hadley.  And  I  devise 
said  messuage  vnto  Joseph  Beaumont,  my  sonne,  and  the  heires  of  his  body;  and  for  default 
of  such,  to  my  said  sonne  John  Beaumont  and  the  heires  of  his  body;  and  for  want  of  these, 

1  For  an  account  of  the  Alabasters  of  Hadleigh,  including  the  will  of  John  Alabaster,  the  grandfather, 
dated  20th  April  1637,  see  Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  i,  pp.  49-55. 


BEAUMONT  OF  BILDESTON. 


325 


vnto  the  right  heires  of  me  the  said  Edward  Beaumont  for  ever.  T  have  lately  lent  vnto  William 
Walgrave,  Esquire,  £400  vpon  a  mortgage  of  certain  lands  and  tenements  known  by  the  name 
of  Fishouse,  in  Bruers,  co.  Suff.  I  have  also  lent  £700  vnto  Dame  Susan  Bruce  and  William 
Bruce  and  John  Bruce,  her  sonnes,  of  Wenham,  vpon  messuages  called  Fauxhall  :  now  I  doe 
•  declare  yt  to  be  that  said  2  severall  suines  with  the  severall  interest  moneys  shall  come  vnto 
my  executor,  Joseph  Beaumont,  for  his  owne  propper  vse. 

Probatum  decimo  die  Junij,  1645,  Juramento  Josephi  Beaumont  filij  dicti  defuncti. 

P.C.C,  87  Rivers. 


Will  of  Josi'pl)  itamnont,  16S1. 

Joseph  Beaumont  of  Hadleigh,  co.  Suff :  Clothier,  the  4th  day  of  Aprill  1681.  I  give 
£25  to  ffifty  poore  people  of  the  towne,  such  as  my  wife  and  executors  shall  chuse.  Unto 
Martha  my  beloved  wife  £80.  I  give  her  during  her  life  messuage  and  lands  knowne  by  the 
name  of  Cockfeild  Hall  and  Cockfeild  Wood,  and  that  wood  in  Wittnesnam  and  Henley  now 
in  the  occupation  of  William  Hammon.  Unto  Edward  Beaumont,  my  son,  my  farme  and  free¬ 
hold  lands  in  Elmsett,  and,  after  my  wive’s  decease,  Cockfield  Hall,  with  all  the  lands  before 
bequeathed  to  her.  After  his  decease  I  give  said  messuages  and  lands  vnto  Edward  Beaumont, 

his  sonne,  and  to  the  heirs  of  the  body  of  said  grandson.  [Failing  these]  I  give  them  to 

Samuell  Goltie,  Rector  of  Dinnington,  and  his  heires  in  trust  for  the  behoofe  of  the  second 
.sonn  which  shall  be  begotten  of  my  sayd  son  Edward  [&c.  and  failing  these]  to  the  use  of  my 
right  heirs  for  ever.  Unto  Martha,  my  wife,  lands  in  George  Street  in  Hadleigh,  and  after  her 

decease  unto  my  sonne,  John  Beaumont  I  give  this  her  in  lieu  of  dower  and  thirds.  Unto 

John  Beaumont,  my  sonne,  and  his  heirs  lands  and  tenements  in  Assington,  co.  Suffolk,  and 
in  Wormingfield,  Mount  Bueres  and  Colne,  co.  Essex,  and  in  Layham,  co.  Suffolk,  and 
by  Cosford  bridge  in  Hadleigh.  I  give  him  also  £50,  my  mare  and  my  watch.  Unto  my 
sonne  in  law,  Thomas  Whiting 1  of  Hadleigh,  £10  and  to  my  daughter  Whiting  £20,  and  to 
their  daughter  Judith  Whiting  £50.  To  Martha  Whiting,  another  daughter,  £10,  and  unto 
Joseph  Whiting  their  son  £10.  Unto  my  son  in  law  Thomas  Sorell  £10,  my  daughter  Alice 
Sorell  £20,  and  their  sons  Thomas  Sorell,  Beaumont  Sorell  each  £T0,  and  to  Joseph  Sorell, 
another  of  their  sonnes,  £50.  To  William  Plampin,  my  sonne  in  law  ;  my  daughter  Martha, 
his  wife,  and  to  their  children  Joseph  Plampin,  John  Plampin  and  Martha  Plampin.  Unto  John 
Beaumont  and  Mary  Bennett  his  sister,  wife  of  John  Bennett.  To  ray  grandchild,  Edward 
Beaumont,  sonne  of  my  sonne  Edward,  £20.  Unto  my  brother  Mott  and  my  cousin  John 
Beaumont  of  Bilderston.  Rest  of  my  goods  to  Edward  my  sonne.  I  doe  appoynt  my  cousin 
John  Beaumont  of  Bilderston,  and  my  sonnes  in  law,  Thomas  Whiting  and  William  Plampin, 
executors.  And  I  nominate  Peyton  Yentris,  Esqr,  and  Mr.  Samuell  Goltie  supervisors.  Probatum 
nono  die  Junij  1681  juramentis  executorum  in  testamento  nominatorum. 

P.C.C.  87,  Mott. 

1  For  an  account  of  the  Whitings  of  Hadleigh,  including  the  Wills  of  Thomas  Whiting,  Joseph 
Whiting  and  Sir  Peyton  Ventris,  see  pages  121  to  135  of  the  present  volume. 


326 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  nf  Sara!)  Morris,  1698. 

I  Sarali  Norris,  wife  of  Truth  Norris  of  Ipswich,  Gent1,  being  sick  in  body  do  make  this 
my  last  will,  this  24th  day  of  July  1698.  I  commit  my  soul  to  the  Lord  who  made  it,  and 
my  body  to  the  earth  from  whence  it  was  taken.  I  give  my  leasehold  messuages  in  Wantford 
Street  in  Whitechapell  by  London,  unto  my  brother  John  Beaumont,  of  Bildeston  in  Suffolke, 
Gentleman,  and  to  his  son  William  Beaumont  of  Ipswich,  Clerke,  to  take  the  rents  thereof 
towards  the  payment  of  the  sums  I  have  bequeathed  in  this  will.  I  give  unto  my  husband 
twenty  shillings  to  buy  a  ring  and  weare  it  for  my  sake.  Unto  my  kinswoman  Susan  Hale 
of  London,  widowe,  £10.  I  bequeath  the  sum  of  £50  vnto  Deborah  Beaumont,  daughter  of  my 
said  brother  John.  I  give  her  two  silver  spoons  and  one  silver  porringer.  Vnto  John  Beau¬ 
mont,  son  of  my  said  brother,  five  pounds.  Vnto  my  kinsman  Jonathan  Beaumont,  living  with 
my  said  brother,  £10.  Alsoe  I  give  vnto  my  kinsman  Michaell  Beaumont,  brother  of  the  said 

Jonathan,  £20.  Unto  Susanna  Beaumont,  daughter  of  William  Beaumont  of  Ipswich,  £50.  Vnto 

everyone  of  the  rest  of  the  children  of  the  said  William  £5  a  peice.  V nto  Sarah  Beaumont, 
daughter  of  John  Beaumont,  my  kinsman,  of  Monks  Eley,  ten  pounds,  and  £5  a  peice  to  the 
other  five  children  of  the  said  John  Beaumont.  To  my  kinswomen,  Susann  Blomfeild  and  Anne 
Blomfeild,  to  either  of  them  £10.  Some  of  the  legatees  herein  menconed  are  under  age.  Unto 
all  the  children  and  grandchildren  of  my  husband,  Truth  Norris,  ten  shillings  a  peice  for  rings. 
Unto  Thomas  Norris,  dwelling  with  my  husband,  twenty  shillings.  Unto  the  poore  people  of 

Bildeston  four  pounds.  To  the  poore  of  the  parishes  of  St.  Peter  and  St.  Mary  at  the  Elma 

in  Ipswich  the  like  sum,  equally  between  the  said  parishes.  Unto  the  poore  of  Trymley  and 
Walton  twenty  shillings.  The  rest  of  my  estate  I  give  vnto  my  brother  John  Beaumont  and 
his  son  William  Beaumont.  Unto  my  said  brother  and  his  heirs  my  copyhold  messuages,  lands 
and  tenements  in  Walton  aforesaid.  I  ordein  my  said  brother  and  his  son  William  full  executors. 

Probation  vndecimo  die  Augusti  1698,  Juramentis  Johannis  Beaumont  and  Willielmi 
Beaumont  executoru.  P.G.C.  190  Lort. 


Mill  of  Joseph  IBeamttont,  1.1.,  1699. 

Joseph  Beaumont,  Doctor  in  Divinity  and  Master  of  St.  Peter’s  Col  ledge  in  Cambridge,, 
this  21st  day  of  Novr  1699.  I  leave  to  my  eldest  sonne  John  Beaumont  and  his  heirs  the 
Mannor  of  Tattingston  in  Suffolke,  with  the  perpetuall  Patronage  of  the  Rectory  and  the  house 
called  the  Place  in  Tattingston,  which  came  to  me  by  my  dear  wife  deceased  :  alsoe  house  and 
lands  purchased  of  Richard  Rose  junior  and  Richard  Rose  senior,  my  tenement  in  W  hers  ted, 
and  £100  in  money.  Whereas  I  have  lent  Madam  Jane  Balam  of  Elm  in  the  Isle  of  Ely, 
widow,  £2,500,  part  of  the  portion  I  intended  for  my  two  younger  sonns,  William  and  Charles, 
by  deed  dated  20th  Eeb.  1679,  I  doe  give  the  intire  mortgage  to  my  sonne  Charles  Beaumont, 
my  sonne  William  bein  now  dead.  To  my  sonne  John  Beaumont’s  children  I  give  as  follows — 
To  his  sonne,  Joseph  Beaumont,  Alton  Hall  in  Stutton  co.  Suffolke,  the  Mill  in  Stutton,  and 
the  lands  purchased  of  the  trustees  of  Robert  Sparrow.  To  his  sonne,  John  Beaumont,  my 
ffarme  in  Kettlebarston  it  Hitcham,  purchased  of  Sr  George  Weyneve.  To  his  daughter,  Mary 


BEAUMONT  OF  BILDESTON. 


327 


Beaumont,  ray  ffarme  in  Layhara,  bought  of  Mr.  John  Bugg.  To  his  daughter,  Anna  Susanna 

Beaumont,  my  ffarme  in  Layham  purchased  of  Mr  Thomas  Walker  and  my  ffarme  in  Raydon 

purchased  of  Mr.  Parsons.  To  his  daughter,  Elizabeth  Beaumont,  my  other  ffarme  in  Ivettlebarston 
Hitcham.  These  sons  and  daughters  are  not  yet  of  age.  My  sonne  John  hath  two  other 
■daughters  named  Carolina  and  Penelope.  I  doe  give  to  each  of  them  £200  at  their  ages  of 

seventeen  yeares  or  dayes  of  marryag.  All  my  bookes  and  papers  I  bequeath  to  my  sonne 

Charles  Beaumont  ;  he  by  noe  meanes  to  suffer  any  papers  of  my  writeing  to  be  made  publick, 
unless  it  be  the  coppy  of-  Psyche  revised  and  augmented  to  24  canto’s.  To  my  brother, 

William  Beaumont,  £40  ;  my  nephew  John  Smith  T5  ;  and  legacies  (specified)  to  my  servants. 

I  give  to  St.  Peter’s  Colledge  £300  towards  a  stock  for  the  Chappell.  The  £300  shall  in  the 
meanewhile  be  reposited  in  the  Colledge  Treasury,  soe  that  the  Master  and  Fellowes  may 

improve  it.  To  the  poor  of  little  S6  Mary  in  Cambridge  £20.  Rest  of  my  goodes  vnto  Charles 

Beaumont,  Fellow  of  St.  Peters  Colledge,  whom  I  appoint  the  sole  executor.  Probatum  xxiij°  Dec. 
1699  Juramento  Caroli  Beaumont  ffilij  et  executoris. 

P.C.C.  186  Pett. 


Will  of  JVmta  JiUaDohis,  170(5. 

Anna  Meadows  of  Needham  Markett,  widow  of  John  Meadows  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s,  clerk, 
35th  January  170f.  Messuage  in  Needham  to  be  sold.  To  Mary  Meadows  my  daughter,  Sarah 
Wright  my  daughter  and  Rebecca  Meadows  my  daughter,  according  to  the  will  of  my  husband. 
My  late  father  Mr.  John  Beaumont.  To  Susan  Blomfield  and  Anna  Elliston,  ye  two  daughters 
of  my  late  sister,  Susan  Blomfield.  To  John,  William,  Michael  and  Jonathan  Beaumont,  my 
brothers.  To  John,  Daniel,  Philip,  Rebecca  and  Mary  Meadows,  and  Sarah  Wright,  ye  six  children 
of  my  late  husband.  To  Sarah  Sparrow  my  sister  and  her  son  John  Hamond.  To  John  Blomfield, 
.son  of  my  sister  Blomfield  and  to  the  said  Anne  Elliston,  her  daughter.  To  my  brother,  John 
Sparrow  of  Reed,  my  Tankard  with  ye  Sparrow  Arms  upon  it.  To  Deborah  Luffkin,  my  sister, 
.silver  plate  with  ye  Beaumont’s  Arms  on  it.  To  Anna  Beaumont,  daughter  of  said  brother 
William  Beaumont.  John  Meadows  my  son  to  be  sole  executor.  Probate.  26  May  1707. 

Arch.  Suffolk,  Book  “  Yallop,”  fo.  104  b. 


Will  of  William  Ucanmoitt,  1707* 

I  William  Beaumont  of  Ipswich,  clerk,  considering  how  short  and  uncertain  my  time  in 
this  world  is,  do  make  this  my  last  will.  I  give  to  Mary,  my  loving  wife,  for  life,  all  my 
lands  and  tenements  in  Combs  and  little  Finborough  in  Suffolk ;  also  the  ffreehold  of  my  ffarm 
|n  Earlstonham ;  and  after  her  decease  I  give  the  Combs  and  Finborough  lands  to  my  son  John 
Beaumont,  and  the  Harm  in  Earlstonham  (excepting  the  piece  called  Peartree  Close)  to  my  sons 


328 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


William  and  Robert.  Unto  my  son  Michael  Beaumont  the  copyhold  land  called  Peartree  Close 
and  ,£100,  to  be  paid  him  when  he  is  twenty-ffour.  Unto  my  son  Robert  Beaumont  all  my 
books,  excepting  such  as  my  wife  shall  make  choice  of  for  herself  and  her  daughters.  To  my 
daughters  Mary  and  Anna,  to  each  the  summe  of  £150.  Unto  my  daughter  Susannah  Beaumont 
my  copyhold  lands  called  Conjuns  Wall  in  Bildeston.  My  children  to  give  their  mother  a  dis¬ 
charge  for  the  legacies  of  their  aunt  Norris,  lately  deceased.  Lands  given  me  by  my  ffather 
Beaumont,  called  Highstreet  ffarm  in  Bildeston,  shall  be  sold  to  pay  his  debts  and  legacies,  by 
Mary  my  dear  wife,  my  executrix.  This  :16th  day  of  November  1707. 

Probation  tricesimo  die  Augusti  1709,  Juramento  Maria;  Beaumont,  relictae  et  executricis. 

P.C.C.  188  Lane. 


Will  of  Ifonjamtit  Bmtmmtt,  1719. 

I,  Benjamin  Beaumond  of  Grundisburge,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  the  24th  March  1719,  bequeath 
my  body  to  the  earth,  surely  trusting  for  a  Joyfull  Resurrection.  I  give  unto  the  youngest 
son  of  my  cousin,  John  Conyers  of  Walthamstow,  near  London,  my  lands  and  tenements  in 
Grundisburge  aforesaid,  with  the  goods  and  chattells  as  they  now  stand  in  my  said  mansion 
house.  Unto  my  uncle,  John  Beaumond  of  Monk  Silly,  my  lands  and  tenements  in  Hitcham, 
Nedgen  and  Combes  in  this  county.  Unto  my  cousins  John,  Jonathan  and  Michael  Beaumond,. 
the  sons  of  my  aforesaid  uncle  John,  £10  each.  Unto  my  uncle,  John  Beaumond’s  four 
daughters,  £10  each.  Unto  Gerrod  Conyers  £40.  Unto  my  cousins  John,  Robert,  Michael, 
William,  Ann,  Mary  and  Susan  Beaumond,  the  children  of  my  uncle  William  Beaumond.  Unto 
Martha  Reeve  of  Ipswich  £20.  Unto  Mary  York  £20.  I  nominate  my  cousin,  John  Conyers 
his  youngest  son,  herein  before  mentioned,  to  be  my  sole  executor.  This  will  was  proved  at 
London  4th  July  1733  by  the  oath  of  Edward  Conyers,  the  only  son  of  John  Conyers,  Esqr, 
deceased,  the  sole  executor  in  the  said  will  named.  P.C.C.  192  Price. 


®U  of  ffibarks  JSUamnmtf,  D.ffl.,  1725. 

I  Charles  Beaumont  of  Cambridge,  Doctor  in  Divinity,  do  this  29th  da}?  of  April,  1725, 
declare  this  to  be  my  last  will,  written  by  my  own  hand  in  one  sheet  of  paper.  I  recommend 
my  unworthy  soul  into  the  hand  of  my  most  mercifull  Redeemer.  1  give  my  lands  and 

Dairy  House  in  Wivelingham  in  Cambridgeshire  and  in  Haddenham  in  the  Isle  of  Ely,  rented  at 

£300  a  year,  unto  my  cousin  Mr.  Robert  Beaumont,  Rector  of  Witnesham  in  the  county  of 
Suffolk,  and  after  his  decease  to  his  son  Charles  my  godson.  I  bequeath  my  dwelling  house  in 
Cambridge,  with  the  Brewhouse,  Garden,  and  Lyes  adjoyning,  and  all  my  pictures,  to  the  Masters 
and  ffellows  in  St.  Peter’s  Colledge  in  Cambridge.  I  give  to  my  ffaithfull  servant  John  Gee  my 
ee  e  e  e  s  n  Cambi  id^c,  in  little  St.  Maries  Parish,  and  all  my  Layes  in  Swinescroft,  out 
which  he  is  to  pay  to  the  Minister  of  Little  St.  Maries  fforty  shillings  a  year,  for  preaching 

a  sermon  upon  Good  ffriday.  I  bequeath  to  the  said  John  Gee,  and  to  his  son  John  Gee,  my 


BEAUMONT  OF  BILDESTON. 


329 


tenements  in  St.  Ives.  Sums  of  £955  and  £600  lent  upon  mortgages  I  bequeath  unto  St.  Peter’s 
Colledge,  to  be  laid  out  in  purchasing  the  perpetual  advowsons  of  two  livings  for  the  benefit  of  the 
ffellows  of  the  said  Colledge  for  ever.  Whereas  I  lent  to  my  cousin,  Mr.  Michael  Beamont,  late  of 
Huntingdon,  clerk,  £500  upon  a  mortgage,  out  of  that  sume  I  give  to  my  nephew,  Charles  Beaumont, 
£200,  and  to  my  neice  Anna  Susannah  Taster  £100,  and  to  my  neece  Honeychurch  £100.  I 
order  £100  to  be  paid  for  the  charges  of  my  ffunerall.  I  give  £25  to  little  St.  Maries 
parish,  for  binding  out  five  poor  boys  apprentice,  and  £5  to  be  laid  out  in  buying  bread  and 
coals  for  the  poor  [there].  I  give  £25  to  the  parish  of  Stapleford  for  binding  out  five  poor 
boys;  and  £5  to  buy  bread  and  turfe  for  the  poor;  and  £10  to  the  poor  of  Wivelingham ; 

and  £20  for  buying  a  decent  cloth  for  the  pulpit  and  another  for  the  Communion  Table,  and 

a  black  silk  hood  for  the  minister.  I  bequeath  to  my  neice  Mary  Capron  £50,  and  to  my 

nephew  Captaine  John  Beaumont  £50.  My  silver  tobaccoe  box,  silver  standish  and  silver  cup 

I  give  to  my  dear  friend  Mr  Burkett,  ffellowe  of  St.  Peter’s  Colledge.  And  all  the  rest  of 
my  plate  I  give  to  my  servant  John  Gee,  together  with  my  gold  rings,  watch  and  seal,  and 
my  chariott  and  horses,  and  to  his  son,  John  Gee,  all  my  books.  To  the  Library  of  St.  Peter’s 
Colledge  all  my  Reverend  Father’s  Latin  Manuscripts.  I  make  the  Reverend  Mr  Robert  Beau¬ 
mont,  Rector  of  Witnesham  in  Suffolk,  the  sole  executor  of  this  will. 

Probatum  fuit  vicesimo  die  Martij  1726,  juramento  Roberti  Beaumont  extoris. 

P.C.C.  57  Farrant. 


Mill  of  | obit  Ukaumoitt,  1724. 

John  Beaumont  of  Monk’s  Eleigh,  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  gentleman,  this  7th  day  of 
February  1724.  I  bequeath  my  two  groves,  called  Haukins  Grove  and  Little  Grove,  adjoining 
Bush  Farm,  unto  John  Beaumont,  my  eldest  son,  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever;  he  paying  thereout 
unto  my  two  daughters,  Sarah  and  Susan,  £100.  Executors  to  sell  my  copyhold  messuage  in 
Bilderston  to  discharge  the  mortgage.  The  remainder  of  the  money  I  give  to  my  son  Jonathan 
Beaumont.  Unto  Michael  Beaumont,  my  youngest  son,  my  dwelling  house  in  Monk’s  Eleigh 
and  lands  now  in  his  tenure ;  he  to  pay  Anne,  my  loving  wife,  £10  yearly  during  her  life. 
My  copyhold  tenement  with  the  orchard  I  give  to  my  two  daughters.  Household  goods  to 
wife  for  life,  then  to  my  daughters  equally.  My  wife  and  my  son,  John  Beaumont,  to  be 
executors.  This  will  was  proved,  12th  May  1725,  by  the  oath  of  Anne  Beaumont  the  widow. 

Original  Will,  Court  of  the  Deanery  of  Booking. 

The  ultimate  descent  of  the  testator’s  property  was  not  a  little  complicated.  It  is  stated 
at  full  length  in  the  Bildeston  Manor  Books,  in  the  minutes  of  a  Special  Court  Baron  held 
1st  September  1760.  John  Beaumont,  late  of  Aldham,  co.  Suffolk,  gentleman,  testator’s  eldest 
son,  had  surrendered  in  1737  lands  called  Cook’s  Croft  and  Great  Ponders,  to  his  own  use  for 
life,  then  to  John  Beaumont  of  Sproughton,  his  only  son,  and  Mary  Yesey,  this  son’s  intended 
wife,  for  their  lives,  and  then  to  the  right  heirs  of  his  said  son  for  ever.  The  son  died 
without  issue  a  few  years  later  (leaving  lands  to  William  Betts,  his  nephew,  son  of  his  late 
sister,  Anne  Betts),  and  Mary  Vesey,  now  his  widow,  remarried  John  Yere,  Esq.,  of  Norwich. 
Betts  claimed  the  copyholds  and  was  admitted.  But  Jonathan  Beaumont,  son  and  heir  of 
Jonathan  Beaumont,  late  of  Lavenham,  the  second  son  of  John  Beaumont,  the  testator  of  1725, 
and  the  right  heir  male  to  his  childless  cousin,  John  Beaumont  of  Sproughton,  demanded  his 
legitimate  reversions.  These  were  allowed.  All  parties  united  in  a  Common  Recovery  to  enable 
the  estate  to  be  sold,  and  the  conflicting  claims  to  be  equitably  settled. 

2  s 


330 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


firtiujrrrs  front  tijc  S'ltffolii  ^isttatton,  1664. 

Michael  Beaumont  of  Bildeston,  co.  Stiff. =f= 


John  Beaumont  of  Bildeston.=^Susan,  da.  of  John  Alabaster  of  Hadley,  co.  Stiff. 


John  Beaumont  of  Bildeston,  Gent.  1664.=rAnne,  da.  8j  hr  of  Wm  Mann  of  Hitcham,  co.  Suff. 


r 

John  Beaumont, 
son  hr  set.  17 
a°  1664. 

~i — r 

2.  William. 

3.  Michael. 

i — r  i  r  -i-T 

4.  Benjamin.  1.  Anne.  3.  Mary. 

5.  Jonathan.  2.  Susan.  4.  Sarah. 

T"T 

5.  Abigail. 

6.  Elizabeth. 

1 

7.  Deborah . 

(Certified  by) 

John  Beaumont. 

Julian  Beaumont  of  Hadley ,  co.  Suff.~ 

r 

Edward  Beaumont  of  Hadleigh.=f=  Alice,  da.  of  Rob t  Lufkin  of  . 

.  .  co.  Suff. 

_ _ i 

I 

Joseph  Beaumont  of  Ha  dleigh  Gt,  1664.=^Martha,  da.  of  John  Brond  of  Edwardston,  co.  Suff. 


I - 1 - - 1 - 1-—  - - 1 - 1 

Joseph  Beaumont,  son  hr,  ;e.t.  19  a°  1664.  2.  Edward.  3.  John.  1.  Mary  ux.  Thomse  Whiting.  2.  Martha.  3.  Alice. 

(Certified  by)  Joseph  Beaumont. 


Julian  Beaumont  of  Hadleigh,  co.  Suff ,=p  Sarah,  da.  of  Edited  Gaell  of  Hadleigh. 
r - 1 

John  Beaumont  of  Hadleigh,  2d  son.^rSarah,  da.  of  Edivd  Clarice  of  East  Bergholt,  Suff. 


William  Beaumont  of  Hadley,  co.  Stiff.  G(,  3d  son,1  1664.=rMary,  da.  of  Jn°  Blewett  of  Hadleigh. 

I - — - 1 - 1 - | - 1 

William,  son  8c  hr,  ;et.  9  a°  1664.  2.  Blewett.  3.  John.  Mary. 


Examined  (Signed  by)  W"‘  Woods,  Bluemantle,  28  June,  1828. 


(Certified  by)  W"‘  Beaumont. 


1  Joseph  Beaumont,  the  eldest  son  of  John  Beaumont,  of  Hadleigh,  and  Sarah  Clarke,  was  author  of  “  Psyche,  An 
Allegorical  Epic,”  and  other  poeuis,  and  one  of  the  best  scholars  of  his  age.  He  became  Chaplain  to  Charles  II  in  1660; 
Master  of  Peterhouse,  Cambridge,  in  1663 ;  and  Professor  of  Divinity  at  that  University  in  1670.  He  continued  to  discharge 
the  duties  of  this  office  until  his  eighty-fourth  year,  and  died  23d  Nov.  1699.  See  the  abstract  of  his  will  on  page  326. 


BEAUMONT  OF  BILDESTON. 


331 


iPetriflW,  Beaumont  of  Btltirston. 


....  Bogas,  ot'  Ed-=pAlice,  dau.  of  .  .  .- 
wardston,  co.  Suff. ;  I  survived  her  2d 
1st  husband.  \  husband. 

A 


'Robert  Beaumont,  of  Bildeston,  2d  husband,  son  and 
heir  of  John  Beaumont,  of  Bildeston,  1543.  Will, 
P.C.C.  6  More,  21  July  1551 ;  prov.  1552. 


i — l - 

1.  Robert 
Beaumont. 

3.  Henry 
Beaumont. 


2.  Thomas  Beaumont, of  Groton, 
co.  Suff.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  1618, 
probt.  1620.  =j= 


Beaumont  of  Coggeshat.l. 


4.  Julian  Beaumont,  of  Had- 
leigb,  co  Suff.  Will,  P.C.G.  1 
Spencer,  20  Dec.  1586.=f 

/k 

Beaumont  of  Hadleigh. 


Michael  Beaumont,  of- 
Bildeston.  Will, P.C.C. 
3  Rudd,  3  Dec.  1613, 
prob.  7  Jan.  1614;  M.I. 
in  Bildeston  church. 


Margaret  Skipper, 
mar.  at  Bildeston 
1582  ;  living  1641, 
when  John,  her  s., 
made  his  Will. 


Margaret, 
under  age 
1543. 

Another  da. 


John  Beaumont,' 
of  Bildeston. 
Will,  25  Novbr. 
1641,  P.C.C.  35 
Campbell  ;  lord 
ofBabbin’sMan- 
or ;  M.I.  in  Bil¬ 
deston  church. 


=Susan,  da.  of  John  Ala¬ 
baster,  of  Hadleigh.  Her 
Will,  Arch  Suff.,  2  Sept. 
1663,  probt.  1664. 


Samuel  Beaumont,  born  1592  ; 
bur.  1642.  By  Margaret,  his 
wife,  had  issue  John,  Samuel, 
and  Margaret. 


Michael, b.  1580, 
buried  1604. 

Thomas,  b.1590, 
buried  1617. 


Jonathan  Beaumont,  of 
Bildeston.  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.  1667.  By  Anne, 
his  wife,  had  7  children. 


- n 

Margaret,  mar. 
.  .  .  Waltham. 

Alice,  mar.  Rob¬ 
ert  Scarce. 


John,  bn.  Jonathan,  ob.  s.p. 
1637,  d.  Admon.  to  Mich- 
1667.  ael  his  brother. 


- 1 

Michael, ob.  s.p.;  Thomas,  Margaret,  coh.  to  Susan,  m.  Anne,  coh.  to  Michael; 

estate  to  his  b.  1643 ;  Michael  ;  married  Clement  mar.,  1,  Thomas  Clarke ; 

sisters.  ob.  s.p.  Steph.  Ainger.  Chaplyn.  2,  Robert  Smith. 


n - 

Anne,  bap.  161.7. 

Mary,  bap.  1619. 


- r- - “i 

Deborah,  Thomas, 
bp.  1632,  bapt.  and 
bur.1633.  bur.  1636. 


Mary,  Susan,  bapt.  1620;  mar. 
bapt.  William  Baylie, of  Step- 
1625.  ney,  co.  Middlesex. 


Sarah,  bapt.  1624 ;  mar.  Truth  Norris,  Abigail,  bapt.  Eliza- 
of  Ipswich.  Her  Will,  P.C.C.  190  1638,  ygst.  da.,  beth. 

Lort,  24  July  1698  ;  ob.  s.p.  living  1664. 


John  Beaumont,  of=rAnne,  da.  and  heir  of  William  Mann, 


Bildeston,  Gt  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  1702. 
Entd.  ped.  in  Suff. 
Visitation,  1664  ; 
lands  inWhitechap- 
el,  co.  Middx. 


of  Hitcham,  gent.  HisWill,  P.C.C.  165 
Pell,  1658 ;  lands  in  Monk’s  Eleigli. 


Katherine, =pMichael  Beaumont,  2d=pAnne,  2d  wife 
1st  wife,  sou.  Will,  1689  Cur. 
bur.  1664.  |  Ep.  Norwich, 


Susan,  Anne,  wife  of  Elias 
bapt.  Stonham,  of  Wald- 
1663.  ingfield  Parva. 


Will, 

Arch.  Sudb.  3  Feb. 
prob.  14  Mar.  1993. 


Benjamin  Beau¬ 
mont,  3d  son  ; 
bap.  1630;  farm 
in  Rattlesden. 


Susanna, 

living 

1693. 


Margaret, 

living 

1693. 


Anna,  bapt. 
1683,  liv¬ 
ing  1693. 


Michael,  b. 
1685,  living 
1693. 


Jonathan,  b.  Others 
1688,  living  died 
1693.  young. 


1.  John  Beaumont,  of  Monk’s-pSusan,  da.  of 


Eleigh,  gent.,  set.  17  1664. 
Will,  D.  of  Booking  prov. 
1725 ;  mar.,  secondly,  Ann 
Danford,  wid.,  at  Claydon,  5 
Jan.  1712. 


Wm.  Revett, 
of  Bildeston 
Hall,  Esq  ;  m. 
1683,  buried 
1692. 


2.  William  Beaumont, 
of  Inswich,  clerk;  bapt. 
17Jan.1649.Will, P.C.C. 
118  Lane,  1709.  Mar. 
Mary  Clarke.=f= 

A 

Beaumont  of  Ipswich. 


3.  Michael  Beaumont, 
of  Huntingdon,  clerk  ; 
bapt.  21  Oct.  1660  ;  m. 
Priscilla,  relict  of  Bic. 
Drury,  Esq.,  &  dau.  of 
Robt.Clapthorne ;  s.p. 


4.  BenjaminBeaumont, 
of  Ipswich.  Will,  1679; 
had  issue  byElizabeth, 
his  wife.  =j= 

A 

Beaumont  of  Ipswich. 


5.  Jonathan  Beau¬ 
mont,  bapt.  1661 ; 
devisee  of  Anna 
Meadowes,  1706  ; 
married  and  had 
issue. 


1.  John  Beaumont,  of  Aldham: 
and  after  of  Sproughton, 
gent. ;  bapt.  1679  ;  died  before 
1 1  June  1754.  Bildeston  Manor 
Books.  Copyholds  to  Jonathan 
Beaumont,  his  nephew. 


Ann,  John  Beaumont,  of  Sprough-^ 
wife  ton,  gent.,  only  son  ;  born 
of  1714  ;  ob.  vita,  patris,  4  Oct. 

.  .  1743, set. 29.  Will  1742.  M.I. 

Betts,  in  Hintlesham  church. 


2.  Jonathan  Beaumont, - 
of  Lavenliam,  brother 
and  h.  to  John  (Bildes¬ 
ton  Ma, nor  Books)  ;  bur. 
29  Nov.  1751. 


"Mary,  da.  and  coh.  of 
Thomas  Vesey,  of 
Sproughton,  gt.  She 
remar.  Jn.  Vere.Esq., 
of  N  orwich,  &  ob.  s.p. 


'Eliza¬ 

beth. 


~\ — I — T 


Sarah,  b.  1693,  wife 
of  .  .  .  Jacob  1725. 

Susanna,  b.  1695. 

Deborah,  b.  1687  ; 
m.  Robt.  Chaplyn. 


Michael  Beaumont,  of= 
Monk’s  Eleigh,  gent. 
Will,  1749.  Had  by 
Anne,  his  first  wife 
(who  died  1727) 


'Martha  Elliston,  2d 
wife,  mar.  at  Monk’s 
Eleigh  28  Oct.  1728 ; 
bur.  15  Nov.  1738; 
her  issue  dead. 


Susan,  da.  and  coh.,  wife  of 
John  Jacob.  Had  Bildeston 
copyholds  after  her  father’s 
death,  and  was  heir  to  her 
nephew, Wm. Fowler  ;  ob.  s.p 


Ann  (dead  1751), 
William  Fowler, 
deston  coyyholds 
his  aunt  when  he 


wife  of  John  Fowler, 
her  only  son,  had  Bil- 
1751,  which  passed  to 
died  s.p. 


William  Betts,  of  St. 
George’s,  Bloomsbury, 
devisee  of  John  Beau¬ 
mont,  his  uncle,  1742  ; 
admd.  to  Bildeston 
copyholds  1760. 


Elizabeth, 

1715. 


bap. 


Michael, 

1725. 


bap. 


John,  bap.  1718. 
Sarah,  bap.  1723. 


Susanna,  bap. 
at  Lavenham 
1727. 


Benjamin  Beaumont,  of  Stoke 
Ash,  co.  Sail.  ;  bap.  at  Laven¬ 
ham,  1721 ;  no  issue  by  Susan, 
his  wife.  Admon.,  Arch.  Suff. 
1755,  to  William  Daniel,  gent., 
sister’s  husband. 


Deborah,  bap.  at 
Lavenham  1717 ; 
married  William 
Daniel,  gent.,  the 
executor  of  her 
brother. 


Jonathan  Beaumont,  of 
Lavenham,  son  and  heir 
1754;  admitted  to  Bil¬ 
deston  copyholds,  late 
John  Beaumont,  his  un¬ 
cle’s,  1754  and  1760. 


332 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


•JBctugrre,  Beaumont  of  Jfystmri). 


John  Beaumont,  of  Bildeston,  entered  pedigree  in  the=j=Anne,  dau.  and  heir  of  William  Mann,  of  Hitcham, 
Suffolk  Visitation  1664.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  1702.  eo.  Suffolk,  who  made  Will,  P.C.C.  165  Pell,  1658. 


Anna,  bap.  1645  ;  mar.  John 
Meadows,  of  Bury,  clerk. 
Her  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  1705- 
6,  proved  1707 ;  names  her 
sisters  and  their  children. 


Susan,  bap.  1648  ;  mar. 
William  Blotnfield,  of 
Bildeston,  gent.  Her 
Will  1692, proved  Arch. 
Sudb.  1698. 


Mary,  bp.  1652; 
bur.  1664.  M.I. 
in  Bildeston 
church. 


- 1 - r  r  i 

Sarah,  bap.  1654  ;  mar.,  1,  Abigail,  bur.  1664.  Deborah,  yngst. 
John  Hammond,  of  Wal-  M.I.  in  Bildeston  ch.  dau.;  wife  of  .  .  . 
tisham,  gent,  (his  Will  —  Lufkin,  1706 ;  de- 

Arch.  Sudb.)  and,  2,  John  Elizabeth, bap.  1658 ;  visee  of  her  aunt 
Sparrow,  of  Reed,  co.Suff.  bur.  1670;  M.I.  in  ch.  Norris,  1698. 


1.  John  Beaumont,  bapt. 
1647,  of  Monks  Eleigh, 
gent.,  son  and  heir  1664  ; 
mar.  Susan  Revett,  of  Bil¬ 
deston.  See  ped.  p.  000. 


2.  William  Beaumont,  bapt.: 
1649, of  Ipswich,  clerk.  Will, 
P.C.C.  188  Lane,  1709  ;  R. 
of  Witnesham  1705,  of 
Hintleshatn  1709. 


Mary  Clarke,  her 
Will  P.C.C.  3  Teni- 
son  1717  ;  bur.  in  St. 
Mary  Tower  ch.,  Ips¬ 
wich.  M.I  •  ob.  aat.62. 


3.  Michael  Beaumont, 
of  Huntingdon,  clerk. 

5.  Jonathan,  yngst.  s., 
mar.  and  had  issue. 


4 .  Benjami  n= 
Beaumont, of  Ips¬ 
wich  ;  bapt.  1651. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff. 
1679. 


Elizabeth,  da.  of 
Geo.  Southwood 
by  Eliz.,  da.  of 
Wm.  Conyers, of 
Walthamstow, 
serjeant-at-law. 


Mary  Beaumont,  ob.  s.p.  1732,  Thomas,  bapt.  at  St. 
set.  55.  Will  prov.  1733,  bur.  Mary  Tower  ch.  23 
in  St.  Mary  Tower,  Ipswich.  Feb.  1691;  dead  1709. 

Susanna,  mar.  Rev.  Titus  Anne,  wife  of  Edward  Benjamin  Beaumont,  of 

Tweedy ;  ob.  1746.  Will  Duck,  devisee  of  Anne  Grundisburgh, gent.  Will, 

dated  1740 ;  lands  to  Rob.  Meadows,  her  aunt,  P.C.C.  192  Price,  1719; 

Beaumont,  her  nephew.  170§.  prob.  1733.  M.I.  in  the  ch. 

i 

1.  John  Beaumont,  of  Ips-- 
wich.  Will  Arch. Suff. 1747 ; 
d.  set.  69,  bur.  with  wife  in 
St.  Mary  Tower,  Ipswich. 

pSarah,  sister  of  Thomas 
Bantoft,  cousin  and  devi¬ 
see  of  Sarah  Fones,  1745, 
and  of  Mary  Paul,  1738. 

Michael  Beaumout,  bapt.p 
at  St.  Mary  Tower,  1687 ; 
bur.  there  1733,  set.  46. 

=Elizabeth,  da.  of  .  .  .  Bur-  William  Beaumont,  de¬ 
rough  ;  died  1777,  aet.  83  ;  visee  of  his  cousin  Ben- 
bur.  in  St.  Mary  Tower,  jamin  Beaumont,  of 
Ipswich.  Grundisburgh  1733. 

r  n 

Mary,  devisee  of  Mary  Sarah,  mar.  Thomas  Lodge, 
Beaumont,  1732,  and  devisee  of  Sarah  Fones, 
of  Sarah  Fones,  1745.  1745  (see  vol.  i,  87,  for 

Fones). 

r  *  i  r  n 

Mary  Beaumont,  John  Beau-  Michael,  bur.  Sarah,  bur.  William,  d.  1732 

d.s.p.  1796, ®t. 87;  mont,  bur.  1719  in  St.  in  St.  Mary  act. 7 ;  bur.  in  St. 

bur.  in  St.  Mary  1717  in  St.  Mary  Tower,  Tower,  Mary  Tower. 

Tower,  Ipswich.  MaryTower.  Ipswich.  1722. 

Robert  Beaumont,  bapt.  at  Hintlesham  1683  ;=f=Priscilla,  da.  and  cob.  of  Robert  Chapthorne,  Esq.,  and  relict  of  Richard  Drury,  of  Colne,  co. 


Vicar  of  St.  Laurence,  Ipswich ;  Rector  of 
Witnesham,  1708.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1737. 


Hunt.,  Esq.,  High  Sheriff  of  Cambr.  and  Hunts.,  1676,  by  whom  issue.  She  d.  12  Jan.  1749, 
mt.  72  ;  bur.  in  St.  Mary  Tower,  Ipswich.  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  (See  vol.  i,  365,  for  Drury.) 


Robert  Beaumont,  of 
Framsden,  co.  Suff., 
elk.  Will,  Arch.  Suff. 
1789,  pr.  1791 ;  names 
nephew  Philip  Bowes 
Broke,  of  Nacton. 


Charles  Beaumont,  Rector  of  Witnes¬ 
ham  ;  bapt.  there  1710 ;  died  1756, 
set.  45.  Slab  with  arms  in  Witnes¬ 
ham  church.  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  and 
P.C.C.  289  Glazier,  1756;  names  sis¬ 
ter,  wife  of  Edward  Venn. 


^Elizabeth,  da.  &  coh.  of  Thos.Vesey, 
of  Sproughton,  co.  Suff. ;  sister  of 
Mary  Vesey,who  m.  John  Vere,  Esq., 
and  John  Beaumont,  of  Sproughton  ; 
bur.  at  Witnesham  1791,  set.  77. 
(See  vol.  i,  62,  for  Vesey.) 


Mary,  bap.  atW  it- 
nesham  12  Oct. 
1716 ;  mar.  Edw. 
Venn,  M.D.,  of 
Ipswich,  1749. 
Crimp’s.  Mar.  Lie. 


— T1 

Priscilla,  bapt.  at 
Witnesham  1712; 
bur.  there  1745. 

Elizabeth, bap.  at 
Witnesham  1723; 
bur.  there  1730. 


Elizabeth  Beaumont,  dau.  and  coh.;  bapt.=pPhilip  Bowes  Broke,  of  Nacton,  co.  Suff., 
at  Witnesham  1748  ;  mar.  1771 ;  d.  1822.  Esq. ;  born  1749,  died  22  Aug.  1801. 


Amy  (Amanda)  Beaumont,  bur.  at  Witnesham 
18  July  1779,  ob.  s.p.  East  Anglian,  iv,  N.S.  127. 


Sir  Philip  Bowes  Vere  Broke,  Bart.,  K.C.B.,  of  Shrubland  Park,  co.  Suffolk;  Captain  of  the= 
“  Shannon  ”  when  she  fought  the  “  Chesapeak  ”  in  1813.  He  died  2  January  1841. 


=Sarah  Louisa,  da.  of  Sir  William  Fowle 
Middleton,  Bart.,  of  Shrubland  Hall. 


Sir  Philip  Broke,  second  Baronet,  born  15  January  1804;  Commander  R.N.  A  quo  Lady  Lorraine  Broke. 


BEAUMONT  OF  BILDESTON. 


333 


iPetugm,  Beaumont  of  ^atiltigt). 


John  Beaumont,  of  Bildeston,  in  Suffolk.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  dated  17  July  1543,  proved  15  Nov.: 
following.  Land  in  Hitcham  Manor. 


Bog  as,  of  Ed-=f=Alice,  his=pRobert  Beaumont,  of  Bildeston.  2.  Richard  Beaumont,  3.  Thomas  Beaumont,  of  Bil- 


- 1 

Agnes, 


named 


wardston,  co.Suff., 
1st  hush.,  had  with 
other  issue  a  dan. 


widow, 

living 

1551. 


Will,  P.C.C.  6  More  1551,  proved  named  in  his  father’s  deston,  1586;  had  son,  John  1543  in  her ’fa- 
1554.  Lands  in  Hitcham  and  Will  1543.  Beaumont,  when  his  father  ther’s  Will. 

Kettlebaston.  made  his  will. 


Alice  Bogas,  mar.  to 
Wm.  Wade,  who  died 
1599.  His  brass  in 
Bildeston  ch.  Her 
Will  P.C.C.  5  Weldon. 


1.  Robert.  4.  Julian  Beaumont, =pSarah,  dau.  Michael  Beaumont,  of  Bil-=i=Margaret 


of  Hadleigh,  co.  Suff. 
3.  Henry.  Will,  P.C.C.  1  Spen¬ 
cer,  made  and  proved 
Margaret.  1586. 


of  Edward 
Gaell,  of 
Hadleigh. 


deston.  Will,  P.C.C. 
Rudd,  3  Dee.  1613. 


Skepper, 
m.  1582. 


/N 


2.  Thomas  Beaumont, 
of  Groton  ;  a  quo 
Beaumont  of  Cog- 

GESHALL. 


Beaumont  of  Bildeston. 


Edward  Beaumont,  of  Had-=pAlice,  da.  of  Robert  Luf-  Sarah,  under  John  Beaumont,  of  Hadleigh,  2d=j=Sarah,  sister  and  devisee  of  Ed- 


leigh,  eldest  son,  bapt.  1580. 
Will,  P.C.C.  87  Rivers,  23 
April,  proved  10  June  1645. 


i — i — i — r - 

Edward,  Sarah,  and  Mary 
died  young. 

John,  bap.  1608,  living  1645. 


kin,  of  Playford  ;  devisee  age  1586. 
of  Mary  Lufkin,  her  mo¬ 
ther,  1609.  Anna. 


son,  bapt.  there  1584.  Will,  P.C.C. 
387  Brent  1652,  proved  1653. 
M.I.  in  Hadleigh  church. 


Edward,  bap. 
1606.  Will, 
P.C.C.  1639. 
Joan,  his  wid., 
living  1641. 


Mary,  wife 
of  John  Dis- 
ter,ol'Glems- 
ford  in  Suf¬ 
folk. 


i — I - 

John,  b.  1614, 
died  1617. 

Mary,  bant. 
1622. 


Edward,  bp. 
1625,  died 
1674.  M.I.  in 
Hadleigh 
church. 


ward  Clarke,  of  East  Bergholt, 
Esq.,  High  Sheriff  of  Suff.,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C.  488  Alehin, 
1646. 


Sarah, eld. da., 
wife  of  John 
White,  of  Ed- 
wardston,  in 
1652. 


Hannah,  wife 
of  Samuel 
Smith,  1652 
had  a  son, 
John  Smith. 


Joseph  Beaumont,  of- 
H  adleigli, gent., b.  1612. 
Will,  P.C.C.  87  North 
1681;  entered  pedigree 
in  Suff.  Visitn.  1664. 
M.I.  in  Hadleigh  ch. 


Martha,  dau.  of 
John  Brond,  of 
Edwardston, 
Esq.,  who  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  116 
Campbell  1641. 


PhilipBeaumont, 
hapt.  1615  ;  died 
young.  Had  by 
Sarah,  his  wife,  a 
dau.  Sarah  Beau¬ 
mont,  1645. 


JosephBeaumont,  D.D.y 
Master  of  Peterhouse, 
Camb.;  author  of  “Psy¬ 
che.”  Will,  P.C.C.  186 
Pett  21  Nov.,  proved 
23  Dec.  1699. 


-Elizabeth,  da.  and  h. 
of  Robt.  Brownrigg 
(by  Eliz.  Cutler,  who 
mar.  2dly  Matthew 
Wren,  Bp.  of  Ely). 
She  was  lady  of  the 
m.  of  Tattingston. 


William  Beaumont,  3d  son  ;. 
entered  ped.  in  Suff.  Visitn., 
1664.  Mar.,  1,  Mary,  da.  of 
John  Alabaster  ;  2,  Mary,  da. 
of  John  Blewitt  (by  whom 
issue)  ;  3,  Ann,  da.  of  William 
Brunskill.  He  d.  1712. 


Mary,  wife  of  Thomas 
Whiting  of  Hadleigh, 
gent.,  who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  97  Hare,  1682, 
leaving  issue. 


Alice,  wife  of  Thomas  Martha,  wife  of 
Sewell,1  of  Gt.  Henney,  Willm.  Plampin 
co.  Essex,  gent.,  1681,  1631,  by  whom 

and  had  issue.  three  sons. 


John  Beaumont,1 
gent.,  eldest  sou, 
lord  of  the  Manor 
of  Tattingston, 
co.  Suffolk. 


Joseph  Beau¬ 
mont,  s.  &  h. ; 
aged  19, 1664 ; 
d.  vita  patris. 


Edward  Beaumont, =j 
son  and  heir  1681  ;  to 
have  Cockfield  Hall 
and  lands  in  Elm- 
sett,  co.  Suff. 


John  Beaumont, 
1681;  to  have  lands 
in  Hadleigh,  Ass- 
ington,  Bures, 
Colne,  etc. 


Joseph  Beaumont, 
to  whom  his  grand¬ 
father  bequeathed 
Alton  Hall,  in  Stut- 
ton,  co.  Suff.,  1699. 


Charles  Beaumont,  D.D.,  Rec¬ 
tor  of  Witnesham.  Will, P.C.C. 
57  Farrant  1725,  prob.  22  Mar. 
1726.  Bequests  to  St.  Peter’s 
Coll.,  Cambridge  ;  ob.  s.p. 


- 1 

William 
Beaumont, 
ob.  vitd 
patris,  s.p. 


Mary,  wife  of  Joseph 
Capron,  of  Chigwell, 
co.  Essex,  gent., 1725  ; 
devisee  of  her  grand¬ 
father  1699. 


Anna  Susanna,  wife 
of  ...  .  Taster,  de¬ 
visee  of  her  uncle, 
Dr.  Chas.  Beaumont, 
1725. 


Edward  Beaumont,  son 
and  heir;  named,  1681, 
in  his  grandfather’sWill. 


Captain  John  Beaumont,  to  whom 
his  grandfather,  1699,  left  farm  in 
Kettlebaston  and  Hitcham. 


Elizabeth,  to  whom  her  grandfather  Caroline,  not  yet  Penelope,  not 
left  another  farm  in  Kettlebaston  aged  17  years  in  yet  aged  17  in 
and  Hitcham.  1699.  1699. 


1  In  her  father’s  will,  P.C.C.  87  North,  the  name  is  written  Serell.  In  the  Court  Rolls  of  Great  Henney  it  is 
Sewell.  Morant  says  in  this  connection,  “  Thomas  Sewell  of  Great  Henney,  gent.,  departed  this  life  in  1707.  He  had  taken 
to  wife  Alice,  daughter  of  Joseph  Beaumont  of  Hadley,  gent.,  by  which  he  had  issue  Thomas,  Joseph,  Beaumont,  and  two 
daughters,  Mary,  married  to  John  Tyrrell,  of  Preston,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  and  Alice,  married  to  Thomas  Carr,  of  Holbeach, 
co.  Lincoln,  gent.”  Morant’s  “  Essex,”  vol.  ii,  273. 


334 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


^rtitcjrrf,  33  rati  mo  it  t  of  Coggrsljall. 


Robert  Beaumont,  of  Bildeston,  co.  Suffolk,  clothier,  son  and  heir  of  John  Beaumont,  of-pAlice,  widow  of  William 


Bildeston,  who  left  him  lands  in  Hitcham  Manor,  1543;  had  lands  also  in  Bildeston  and 
Kettlebaston.  Will,  P.C.C.  6  More,  21  July  1551,  proved  27  Aug.  1554. 


Bogus,  of  Edwardstone, 
in  co.  Suffolk. 


Robert  Beaumont,  named 
in  Wills  of  his  father  and 
grandfather.  His  son,  Ro¬ 
bert  Beaumont,  of  Elmsett 
(named  in  Edw.  B.  Venn’s 
pedigree,  1814)  had  issue 
Robert  and  Samuel. 


Thomas  Beaumont,  of=pElizabeth 


Groton,  named  in  his 
father’s  will. Will, dated 
27  May  1618,  proved  at 
Bury  4  Oct.  1620,  ment. 
in  Edward  Beaumont 
Venn’s  ped.  A.D.  1814. 


Thomas  Beaumont,  bap. 
at  Boxford  12  Sep.  1574  ; 
ment.  in  Edw.  B.  Venn’s 
ped.  1814. 


Julian  Beaumont, nam¬ 
ed  in  Edw.  B.  Venn’s 
ped.  1814  ;  bur.  at  Gro¬ 
ton  20  July  1637. 


Michael  Beaumont,  of  Bil¬ 
deston,  ment.  in  the  Suff. 
Visitn.  1664.  Will,  P.C.C. 
3  Rudd,  Dec.  1613. 

/k 

Beaumont  of  Bildeston. 

- i - - 1 - 1 

Michael  Beaumont,  bapt.  at  Box-  Anne  (son),  bur.  .  .  .  ,  wife  of  Tlios.  Clam- 
ford  6  Mar.  1579;  bur.  at  Groton,  atBoxford  15  June  pen,  ment.  in  her  father- 
21  Feb.  1637.  1574.  in-law’s  Will. 


Runton, 
mar.  at 
Bildeston, 
27  April 
1572. 


Henry,  Margar¬ 
et  and  another 
child  (unborn  in 
July  1551)  men¬ 
tioned  in  their 
father’s  Will. 


Julian  Beaumont,  of  Had- 
leigh,  named  in  the  Suff. 
Visitn.  1664.  See  “  East 
Anglian,”  vol.  i,  N.S.  130. 

A 

Beaumont  of  Hadlf.igh. 


Judith, =rJohn  Beaumont,  of  Box-=f Judith  Hatch,  2d  wife, 


bur.  at 
Boxford 
22  April 
1617. 


ford,  bapt.  at  Groton  |  mar.  at  Whatfield,  Suf- 
1  Sept.  1586;  named  in  |  folk,  14  July  1618.  See 
father’s  Will  and  E.  B.  '  Davy  MSS.  19,088,  p. 
Venn’s  pedigree.  323. 


Abigail,  wife  of  Thos. 
Turner,  1618  ;  bapt. 
at  Groton,  6  April 
1585  ;  mar.  there  24 
July  1608. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of 
Peter  Coe ;  bapt. 
at  Groton,  25  Nov. 
1590 ;  mar.  there 
20  April  1611. 


Alice,  bapt.  at  Boxford  9  June 
1577. 

Joliane,  bapt.  at  Boxford  10  Jan. 
1582. 


Elisha,  bapt.  29  May 
1615  ;  called  Elye  in 
grandfather’s  Will. 

John,  bapt.  1617. 


i  i - - 

Jane,  bapt.  1619. 

Judith,  bapt.  26  Nov. 
and  bur.  18  Dec. 
1620  at  Boxford. 


- — T~1 - - - 

Judith,  bapt.  at  Box¬ 
ford  2  Dec.  1621. 


Mary,  bapt.  1 
1622. 


Jan. 


Thomas  Beaumont,  bapt. 
and  bur.  at  Boxford  1627. 

Susan,  bapt.  at  Boxford 
14  Dec.  1628. 


Thomas  Beaumont,  bapt.: 
at  Boxford  21  Nov.  1630; 
mar.  at  Edwardstone,  16 
April  1672,  then  described 
as  of  Bildeston. 


Susan  Hol¬ 
ton,  of  Nay- 
land  ;  bur. 
there  11 
Nov.  1689. 


Thomas  Jonathan  Beaumont,  of  Nayland  ;  bapt.  there  30  Nov.  1672.  Will  dated  1  Oct.  1706,- 
Beau-  proved  16  March  1743;  gave  tenement  in  Fenn  Street,  Nayland,  to  wife  for  life,  then  to 

mont.  two  eldest  sons,  Jonathan  and  Thomas.  Bur.  there  22  Jan.  1743. 


:Johannah,  dau.  of  .  .  .  Edwards, 
mar.  at  Stoke  by  Nayland  27  July 
1697. 


Jonathan  Beaumont,  bapt.  at  Nay-  Thomas  Beaumont,  bapt.  at  Nayland  25  May  1702.  Held  tene-: 
land 27  Dec.  1699  ;  underage  1706,  ment  in  Fenn  Street  there;  buried  at  Nayland  15  June  1778. 
when  his  father  made  his  Will.  Will  dated  1  June  1778,  proved  at  Norwich  20  July  following. 


•Martha,  his  wife, 
bur.  at  Nayland 
30  April  1781. 


Hannah,  bur.  at 
Navland  3  April 
1712. 


Thomas  Beaumont,  to  whom  his 
brother  Jonathan  left  tenement 
at  Nayland  in  18C0.  His  death 
presented  at  Nayland  Manor 
Court,  19  April  1824. 


John  Beaumont,  of  Nayland,  de-=j=Mary  Wink, 


visee  of  his  brother  Jonathan  in 
1800 ;  died  1804  seized  of  mes¬ 
suage  called  the  Guildhall.  Will 
proved  at  Bury,  1804. 


married  at 
Nayland  2 
Feb.  1773. 


Jonathan,  died  2  Feb.  1807,  Elizabeth, 
aged  71.  Will  proved  at  Ips-  Johanna, 
wich  4  March  1807  ;  house  to  Mary  and 
Thomas  his  brother.  Martha. 


- 1  l 

Samuel 

Beaumont. 

Robert 

Beaumont. 


Mary,  born 
6  June  1773. 

Martha,  born 
16  July  1774. 


Susannah,  born 

12  Sept.  1775. 

John,  born 
2  April  1777. 


Thomas,  born 
16  Sept.  1778. 

Jonathan,  bn. 
11  May  1780. 


i  i 

Samuel,  born 
12  July  1781. 

Robert,  born 
30  Nov.  1783. 


Elizabeth,  born 
30  Sept.  1785. 

Benjamin,  born 
17  June  1792. 


Joseph  Beaumont,  of  Col-=j=Sarah,  dau.  of 


Chester;  b.  12  Nov.  1787. 
Joint  devisee  with  his 
brother  Jonathan  under 
their  father’s  Will. 


John  &  Dinah 
Rootsey. 


Joseph  Beaumont,  of  Coggeshall,  co.  Essex;  born  at  Colchester, =pEliza  Polley,  of  South-  Sarah,  d.  in 


4  March  1827 ;  lord  of  the  Manors  of  Beaumonds  in  Lindsey, 
Glemsford,  Callis  Metholds,  Haughley,  and  Abbots  Hall  in 
Stowmarket;  died  18  July  1889.  Had  five  sons  who  died 
under  age. 


minster,  co.  Essex  ;  mar.  infancy. 
1854 ;  died  at  Cogges¬ 
hall,  1903.  Fanny. 


John  Rootsey 
Beaumont, 
died  circa 
1849. 


Dinah,  died  1880. 
Sarah,  died  1886. 
Mary,  died  1854. 


George  Fredk.  Beau  mont,  F.S.  A., 
b.  20  J uly  1856 ;  author  of  “  Hist, 
of  Coggeshall”;  mar.  31  Aug. 
1882,  Amy,  da.  of  Thomas  Phil¬ 
lips,  of  Kemerton  Court,  co. 
Gloucester,  and  has  issue  three 
sons  and  two  daughters. 


Mary  Louisa,  b.  27 
Mar.  1858;  mar.  18 
Feb.  1879,  Rt.  Rev. 
John  Phillips  Allcot 
Bowers,  D.D.,  Bishop 
of  Thetford ;  has 
issue. 


Percy  Muuro  Beau¬ 
mont,  b. 27  Aug.1861, 
Assoc.  Mem.  I.C.E.  ; 
mar.  27  Sept.,  Agnes 
Maria  Hamilton,  da. 
of  General  George 
Forbes  Hogg,  C.B. 


Gertrude  Helen,  b. 
12  Jan.  1865;  mar.  26 
Jan.  1886,  Rev.  Geo. 
Johnson  Scott,  only 
s.  of  Deputy  Surgeon 
General  J.  E.  Scott, 
M.D. 


Nina  Florence, 
born  2  April 
1868;  a  mis¬ 
sionary  at  Ma¬ 
seru,  Basuto¬ 
land. 


Joseph  Wm.  Beau¬ 
mont,  b.  27  Nov. 
1869 ;  m.  Gertrude 
Charlotte  Grieve,  of 
Stoney  Creek, Ham¬ 
ilton,  Canada,  22 
Nov.  1893. 


tBrauniont  of  gioutfjtoolU. 


Will  of  Shorn  as  ikanmont,  1582. 

I  Tliomas  Beaumonde,  Citizen  and  Alderman  of  Norwich,  make  this  my  last  will  and 

testament,  this  8th  daye  of  November  1582.  I  desire  to  be  buried  in  Sc  Andrew’s  church  nere 
unto  my  pevve  there.  I  give  to  Anne  my  wife  my  capitall  messuage  which  I  dwell  in,  and 
my  orchard  called  Sl  Cuthbert’s  and  lands  and  tenements  in  Carrowe.  To  my  daughter  Elizabeth 
and  to  Thomas,  Richard  and  Elizabeth,  her  children  To  Marie  and  Elizabeth  Nods,  children 

of  my  daughter  Marie  Nods,  deceased.  To  Suzan  my  daughter,  now  ye  wife  of  Robert  Play- 

forde,  and  to  each  of  her  daughters,  Anne  and  Cecilie.  Unto  Margaret  Beaumont  my  daughter 
my  lease  in  bowses  in  Norwich,  in  Holme  Street,  of  the  Mayor  and  Corporation ;  Anne  my 
wife  to  be  her  guardian.  To  Thomas  Lowen  my  sonne  in  lawe  and  to  Elizabeth  his  daughter. 
To  Peter  Beamond  my  brother.  To  Thomas  Farror  my  brother.  I  bequeath  unto  Thomas 
Beamond,  sonne  of  Robert  Beamond  my  brother,  and  to  his  heires  for  ever,  my  lands  in 
Southwold  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk.  And  of  this  will  I  ordeyne  Anne  my  wife  to  be  the 
sole  executrix. 

This  will  was  proved  in  the  Consistorial  Court  at  Norwich  on  the  22d  day  of  April 

1583  by  the  oath  of  the  Executrix. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norwic,  Liber  “  Bate,”  fo.  202. 


Pctiujrer  front  ttjr  <£tsttatton  of  Ivntt,  1619. 


Robertus  Beaumont  de  Com.  Su ffolcite.^ Emma  fd  ....  Bishop  de  Com.  Norff. 


Rob’tus  Beaumont  de  London  films  et  heeres.^Maria  filia  G’’n  Masingbard. 


Mar  gar  eta  filia  Joh’is  Swayton  de=^Thomas  Beaumont  de  Civitate-r  Anna  filia  Roberti  Pla  yford  de  Civitate 


ffeversham. 


Roffin. 


Norwici. 


l - 

Maria. 


Elizabetha. 


Edwardus,  A°  tets  9. 


Theodosia,  filia. 


Arms. — Beaumont — Azure,  semee  de  fleurs  de  lys,  a  lion  rampant  Argent :  impaling 
Massingberd  of  Lincolnshire — Azure,  three  quatrefoils  2  and  1  Argent ;  and  in  chief  a  boar 
passant  Argent,  charged  with  a  cross  pattee  Sable. 


Harl.  MS.  1432,  fol.  53  b. 


336 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


SPdrfffrff,  Beaumont  of  ^outfjiuolti. 


Beaumont,  of  Dunwich,  in  Com.  Suffolk.- 


Thomas  Beaumont,  of  Dunwich. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.  10  March  1471, 
proved  14  April  following  ;  men¬ 
tions  Henry  Beaumont,  senr., 
whom,  with  Agnes  his  wife,  he 
names  as  his  executors. 


-Agnes,  sister  of  William  Pyers.  She=.  .  .  Lee, 
made  Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  as  Agnes  Lee,  of  South  - 
of  Southwold,  13  May,  proved  21  wold,  co. 
Sept.  1501,  naming  her  sons  John  Suffolk ; 
Thomas  and  Robert  Beaumont,  and  2d  hus- 
her  lands  in  Woodbridge.  band. 


John  Beaumont,  of=T=Joan  Beaumont,  of  Pake- 


Dunwich.  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.  22  June  1446  ; 
names  Joan  his  wife 
&  Thomas  Beaumont 
his  brother. 


field,  widow,  made  her  Will 
Arch.  Suff.  10  June  1469, 
proved  14  March  following; 
names  Roger  Beaumont,  of 
Alby. 


Robert  Beaumont,  of- 
Southwold.  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.  9  Aug.  1535, 
proved  24  Jan.  1536 ; 
lands  in  Pakefield, 
Carlton  and  Kirkley ; 
names  Robert  Beau¬ 
mont,  his  nephew. 


^Katherine  Beaumont, 
of  Lowestoft,  widow, 
made  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.  8  June,  prov.  22 
July  1555;  lands  in  hun¬ 
dred  of  Mutford  to  John 
Beaumont,  her  son. 


Henry,  1471.  John  Beaumont, of n=Agnes, 


Margerie  and 
Joan,  1471. 
One  mar.  .  .  . 
Rose,  the  other 
.  .  .  Benton. 


Southwold.  Will, 
P.C.C.  5  Bennett, 
15  August,  proved 
60ct.  1508 ;  names 
Robert  Beaumont, 
his  brother. 


sur¬ 

vived 

her 

hus¬ 

band. 


Thomas  Beaumont, 
of  Southwold.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.  8  Aug., 
proved  4  Dec.  1501 ; 
ob.  s.p. ;  estate  to 
Robert  and  John, 
his  brothers. 


Henry  Beaumont, 
of  Dunwich.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.  1488; 
names  Margery 
his  wife,  Joan  his 
dau.,  &  John  Beau¬ 
mont,  of  South¬ 
wold. 


John  Beaumont,  and= 
Helen  his  wife,  sell 
lands  in  Carlton  and 
Kirkley  to  Richard 
Payne.  Fine  Hill. 
3  Eliz.  1560. 


■Helena,  named  in 
her  mother  -  in  - 
law’s  Will ;  had 
then  a  dau.  Kath¬ 
erine  and  other 
children. 


- 1 

Isabel,  named 
with  her  child¬ 
ren  in  her  mo- 
ther’sWill,1555, 
wasthen  wife  of 
Willm.  Goddill. 


r~ 


Robert  Beaumont,  of  South-^Emma,1  dau.  of  Riclid.  Thomas  Beaumont, 

Bishop  of  Yarmouth;  of  Norwich,  1542. 
probably  grand-dau.  — 

of  Emma  Bishop,  of  Margery,  named  in 
Southwold,  who  made  her  father’s  and  bro- 
W ill.  Arch.  Suff.  1500.  ther’s  Wills. 


wold.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
18  Decem.  1542 ;  lands  in 
Wenhaston  and  Uggeshall, 
co.  Suffolk ;  a  large  ship¬ 
owner. 


/K 


tt— n — 
Richard, 
Michael, 
John  and 
Gregory, 
living 
1542. 


Thomas  Beaumont,  Alderman 
of  Norwich.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.  8  Nov.  1582  ;  to  be  bur. 
in  St.  Andrew’s  church  :  lands 
in  Southwold  to  Thomas  Beau¬ 
mont,  his  nephew. 


Anne, 
named 
in  her 
hus¬ 
band’s 
Will. 


~T 


Robert  Beaumont,  of=j=Mary,  daughter 


London,  son  and  heir ; 
devisee  of  Thomas 
Beaumont,  his  bro¬ 
ther,  1582 ;  named  in 
his  father’s  Will, 1542. 


of  William  Mas- 
ingberd,  of  Lin¬ 
colnshire.  Harl, 
MS.  1432. 


- 1 — n 

Peter  Beaumont,  named,  1582,  in 
his  brother’s  Will. 

Margaret,  not  seventeen  in  1542. 

Rose,  not  yet  seventeen  in  1542. 


Elizabeth, 
was  mar. 
and  had 
issue  in 
1582. 


Mary,  mar. 
.  .  .  Nods  ; 
was  dead  in 
1582,  leav¬ 
ing  daus. 


Susan, wife  of  Ro¬ 
bert  Playford  in 
1582 ;  had  issue 
Anne  and  Cecily 
Playford. 


Margaret  Beau¬ 
mont,  named  in 
her  father’s 
Will. 


Margaret,  dau.  of- 
John  Swayton,  of 
Feversham  in  co. 
Kent.  Pedigree, 
Harl.  MS.  1432. 


-Thomas  Beaumont,  of- 
Rochester  ;  entered 
pedigree  in  the  Visita¬ 
tion  of  Kent  1619. 


:Anne,  daughter  of  Robert 
Playford,  possibly  her  hus¬ 
band’s  cousin  of  that 
name.  See  Pedigree,  Harl. 
MS.  1432. 


Edward,  aged  nine  in  1619. 


Mary. 


Elizabeth. 


Theodosia,  a  daughter. 


,  1  In  his  will,  P.C.C.  17  Alenger,  dated  20th  May  1538,  Richard  Bishop  th’elder  of  Great  Yarmouth,  merchant, 

leaves  his  “  soule  to  Jesus  Christ,  the  only  mediator  betwixt  the  selestial  father”  and  himself,  and  wills  his  body  to  be 
buried  in  the  parish  church.  He  directs  that  “  twenty  sermondes  be  preached  there  by  Dr  Barrett  of  Norwich,  to  the  utter 
confutac’on  of  the  papisticall  hope,”  and  refers  to  the  possible  re-marriage  of  Rose  his  wife.  He  bequeaths  money  to 
Richard  Aldrynge,  and  to  Alice  Oldringe  on  her  day  of  marriage.  To  John  Beamond  iiii1*,  and  other  sums  to  “  every  of 
his  belchildren.”  He  refers  to  his  malthouse  in  Yarmouth,  and  names  Symon  Richemon,  Robert  Beamond,  Thomas  Aldriche 
and  Richard  Davy,  his  sons-in-law,  and  the  heirs  begotten  of  “  ther  wif’s  his  daughters  joynctly  for  evermore.”  The  residue 
of  his  estate  to  his  wife  and  sons-in-law.  This  will  was  proved  27th  November  1540.  For  pedigree  of  the  Bishop  family 
of  Yarmouth,  see  Harl.  MS.  1552. 


Stubbing  of  Jlauglitoti, 


Armorial  Scarings* 

The  Arms  of  Stubbing  of  Essex,  as  depicted  on  the  “  New  Mapp  of  Middlesex,  Essex 
&  Herts,”  1720,  were  a  chevron  between  three  pickaxes,  in  “canting”  allusion,  as  it  is 
technically  termed,  to  the  stubbing  up  of  roots  and  undergrowths  in  that,  at  one  time,  wood¬ 
land  county  (see  Probert’s  Index  to  Pedigrees  and  Arms  of  Essex,  Add.  MS.  33,528,  fo.  1 63b). 
The  Arms  of  Stubbing  of  Suffolk,  engraved  upon  the  silver  of  Josiah  Stubbing,  who  was  buried 
in  Naughton  chancel  in  1686,  and  alluded  to  in  the  Will  of  his  grandson,  John  Stubbing  of 
Ray  don,  1769,  were  Gules,  a  cinquefoil  between  three  cross  crosslets  Argent;  and  his  Crest  was 
a  demi-ostrich  displayed,  holding  in  its  beak  a  key,  all  proper.  The  Book  Plate  mentioned  by 
Davy  in  his  “Suffolk  Armoury,”  is  that  of  John  Stubbing  of  Higham,  circa  1785. 

The  Stubbings  of  Bumpsted  Helion,  many  of  whom  were  buried  in  the  parish  Church,, 
were  Essex  landowners  from  the  fifteenth  century  downwards.  They  spread  into  the  adjoining 
counties  of  Cambridgeshire  and  Suffolk,  and  formed  a  well  defined  clan,  so  to  speak,  in  which  the 
Christian  name  of  Edmund  was  much  used.  In  the  earlier  part  of  the  seventeenth  century  there 
were  at  least  three  Edmund  Stubbings  among  the  beneficed  clergy  in  the  Eastern  Counties.  One 
was  Rector  of  Datchworth  in  Hertfordshire  in  1622;  another  Rector  of  Rampton,  near  Cambridge, 
in  1632;  and  a  third  Rector  of  Naughton,  in  Suffolk,  from  1594  to  1638. 


Mill  of  Militant  Stubbing,  1491. 

The  xxviii  day  of  Aprill  mcccclxxxxi  I  Willyam  Stobyn  of  Bumstede  Heliown  in  the 
dioc  of  London  make  my  last  will.  I  comend  my  soule  to  allmighty  god  and  to  our  Lady 

seint  Mary  and  to  all  seintes,  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  pissh  church  of  seint  Andrewe  in 

Bumstede  Helionn  before  the  Image  of  seint  Petyr,  fast  by  ye  sepulture  of  my  fader  and  my 
moder.  I  assigne  to  the  forseid  church  a  cowe,  price  vi8  viijd,  to  fynde  a  lyght  of  wex 

brennyng  on  the  halydayes  be  fore  the  crucifix  on  the  Rode  Loft.  I  bequeith  ij  keen,  price 

xiij8  iiijd,  and  with  the  fferme  of  the  ij  keen  I  will  that  the  yere  day  of  my  fader  and  moder 
[be  kept]  euery  yere  wfc  dirige,  masse  and  ringing  according  to  my  fader’s  will.  I  will  that 
William  Stobyn  my  sonne  haue  ii  croftes  clepid  Sages,  wfc  a  medow  at  thende  of  them  lying  in 
Bumstede,  to  geder  wfc  ij  kene,  and  w‘  ye  ferme  of  the  ij  croftes,  medowe  and  ij  keen  to  kepe 
yerely  my  yere’s  mynd  for  me  and  my  wife,  and  also  to  be  prayd  for  by  the  vicary  in  his 
bede  Roll,  when  he  biddyth  the  bedes,  and  also  to  be  prayd  for  euery  Wedynnesday  when  the 
vicar  seyth  Masse.  Also  I  bequeith  to  the  iiij  orders  of  the  frirers  in  Cambrigge  xiij8  iiijd  to 
pray  for  me.  I  bequeith  to  thencresing  of  the  torches  in  Bumstede  church  vi6  viiid.  Executors 
to  lete  to  ferme  a  croft  clepid  Harmer,  to  kepe  ij  lightes  of  wex  on  the  halydayes  in  the 
church  of  Bumstede,  wher  of  j  to  brenne  be  fore  the  crucifix  on  the  Rode  loft  and  the  other 

2  T 


338 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


light  to  brenne  be  fore  the  Image  of  our  Lady  of  pety  there.  I  will  that  my  executors  sell  my 
mece  clepid  Fosters,  and  all  the  money  therfor  to  be  dispendyd  on  the  church  of  Bumstede 
Helyonn  in  repayring  and  makyng  those  thinges  moost  nedefull  therto.  John  Aleyne  my  sonne 
in  lawe  mote  haue  my  mese  called  Morcis  w*  all  the  londes,  w*  ij  acres  called  Maryon’s  bussh, 
which  I  haue  sold  to  hym  for  xxxn,  to  be  payd  to  Thomas  Huntingdon  esquier  and  myn 
executors,  and  w111  a  part  therof  an  able  pest  of  goode  conusacion  to  syng  massis  for  the  sowles 
of  me,  my  wyfes,  my  fader  and  moder  and  my  benefactors  for  [two]  yeres  after  my  decease ; 
and  also  to  make  the  palying  abowte  the  church  yard  of  Bumstede,  and  wth  apart  to  pay  my 
dettes.  I  will  that  Johan  my  wyfe  haue  the  mese  that  I  nowe  dwell  in  clepid  Burtons,  with 
the  londes  I  bowte  therew*,  all  the  terme  of  hyr  lyfe,  and  after  her  deceese  said  meese  mote 
be  sold,  and  the  money  therof  to  be  disposyd  in  massys,  almesdedys  to  poufolk  and  yn  other 
dedes  of  chary te.  I  will  that  Johan  my  wyfe  haue  all  the  Ostilmentes  and  Jewellys  that  she 
browght  to  me  whan  we  where  maryed.  I  will  that  John  Stobyn  my  sonne  have  my  mese 
called  Byrdys  wfc  all  the  londes  pteynyng  all  the  terme  of  his  lyfe,  and  after  his  deceese  forseid 
mese  mote  remayne  to  Willyam  Stobyn  his  sonne,  my  godsone,  if  he  leve  than.  To  the  same 
John  my  sonne  my  depest  grene  gowne.  I  will  that  Willyam  my  sonne  haue  my  mese  clepid 
Crokes  with  the  londes  in  Crokisend  in  Bumstede.  To  the  same  Willyam  my  sonne  my  grene 
gowne  lynid  wt  Kendall.  I  will  that  Alice  my  dough  ter,  the  wyfe  of  John  Aleyne  aboueseid, 
haue  my  croft  clepid  ix  acres.  I  bequeath  to  Anne  Sknelhawk  ij  keeiie.  [Very  numerous 
bequests  of  cattle  and  horses  follow.]  To  Mygchell  Londen  my  sangneyne  gowne  and  to  Willyam 
Asshdon  my  cloke  and  my  hoode.  The  reside w  of  my  howsolld  and  Ystilmentes  I  bequeyth 
halfe  to  Johan  my  wyfe  and  the  other  half  pt  to  be  sold.  The  residew  of  my  goodes  to  be 
disposed  on  the  church  of  Bumstede,  in  almesse  to  poue  people  and  in  dedes  of  chary  te  by 
th’aduyse  of  Maister  Huntyngdon  and  myn  executors,  the  which  I  ordeyne  Wyllyam  Stobyn  my 
sonne,  Michaell  London  and  Willyam  Asshedon.  I  make  Maister  Huntyngdon  supuisou  of  this 
my  testament.  (No  probate  entered.)  P.C.C.  2  Dogett. 


(Mill  of  Hobart  <Stnbbing,  1524* 

The  fourth  day  of  Septembre,  1524,  I  Robert  Stubbing  of  Haverell  in  the  Countie  of 

Suffolk,  being  of  good  and  hole  mynde,  thanked  be  Jesu,  but  syke  in  body,  make  my  last  will. 

I  bequeth  my  soule  vnto  almighty  god  and  to  our  blissed  lady  and  to  all  the  blissed  company  of 
hevyn.  I  will  that  my  lether  be  well  tanned  and  to  be  solde  to  the  moost  profite  by  the 
sight  of  myn  executours,  towardes  the  payment  of  my  dettes.  To  Margaret  my  wife  my  house 
that  I  dwell  in  wb  all  the  free  londe  bilonging,  wfc  the  copye  called  Pentlow  hawken,  to  hir  in 
fee  simple.  I  geve  to  hir  fyve  melche  beastes  and  xxxu  shepe,  w‘  all  the  stuffe  that  she  brought 

with  hir.  Myn  owne  stuffe  of  housholde,  the  which  I  had  before  I  maryd  hir,  to  be  equally 

devided  bitwixt  hir  and  my  childern.  To  William,  my  eldest  sonne,  my  olde  hall  wfc  the  Tyled 
barn,  and  a  copye  called  Grayes,  and  land  at  the  Townes  ende,  and  the  copye  called  the  Cock,  Lc. 
To  Wittm  my  yongest  sonne  the  house  that  the  cowper  dwellith,  the  copye  called  the  Angill  wk 
the  olde  cupborde  in  the  hall.  To  Jone  my  doughter  xxxfci  shepe.  To  Sir  Robert  Symson  on 
trentall  to  synge  for  my  soule  and  all  xpen  soules.  Myn  executours  I  make  my  father  Wiffm 
Stubbing  of  Bumsted  and  my  fader  in  lawe  John  Cook  of  Helmadon, 

Probatum  xvi°  die  Nouembris,  1524,  juramet  Johnis  Cooke  psonatir  et  Wiffm  Stubbing. 

P.C.C.  27  Bodfeld. 


STUBBING  OF  NAUGHTON. 


339 


Mill  of  William  S>tnbbtmg,  1532. 

The  ixth  day  of  Decembr  mv°xxxij,  Wittrn  Stubbyng  thelder  of  Bumsted  Helion  in  the 
Dioe  of  London.  I  bequeth  ray  soule  to  god  almighti  to  or  lady  saynt  Mary  and  to  all  sayntes 
and  my  body  to  be  buryd  in  the  church  or  churchyard  of  Bumsted  aforsaid.  To  the  said  church 

to  have  a  yerly  anyusary  day  or  obyt  for  my  soule  and  all  christen,  iiij  keene.  To  my  iij  sones 

John,  Richerd  and  Wittm,  of  my  landes  to  the  valew,  either  of  them,  xxu.  That  is  to  wet  after 
this  man) :  ffirst  to  John  my  eldest  son  my  mesuage  that  I  dwell  in  callid  of  olde  Crookes  and 
Hartes  duryng  his  liffe;  and  after  his  decesse  to  remayne  holly  to  John  his  yongest  son  &  his 
heyres.  To  Recherd  my  son  all  my  londes  woodes  and  gardyns  called  Weegens  in  Bumsted 
aforesaid,  paying  to  syx  of  my  sone’s  childern  these  sumes  : — ffirst  to  William,  the  yonger  son  of 
Robert  my  son,  v  markes ;  to  William,  Richerd  and  John,  the  sones  of  John  my  eldest  son,  to 
eyther  of  them  v  markes ;  and  to  J ohn  and  Richerd,  sonnes  of  Edmunde  my  son,  to  eyther 
of  them  v  markes ;  to  be  payd  whan  they  cum  to  thage  of  xviij  yeres.  To  William,  my  thurde 
son,  all  my  londes  which  he  hath  now  in  farme  called  brodecroft,  heywardes,  Taillor,  Cokrell’s 
aker,  or  any  other  name.  The  said  William  my  son  shall  have  in  farme  the  londes  called  Sages, 
to  kepe  the  obyt  or  yereday  for  my  ffather  and  mother  after  the  man!  as  I  haue  done  before 
tyme.  The  valew  of  the  said  iii  seuerall  tenementes  or  landes  bequeathed  to  my  iij  sones,  John, 
Rcherd  and  William,  to  be  praysed,  and  all  that  be  praysed  to  be  solde  for  moore  than  xx1 — the 

said  suppluse  of  the  valew  to  be  disposed  to  the  repacion  or  ornametes  of  the  church  of 

Bumsted,  to  heye  ways  and  poure  pepulle.  The  residew  of  my  goodes  and  my  dettes  I  bequeth 

to  myn  Executors  to  pay  my  dettes,  fulfylle  my  legacies,  bryng  me  honestly  [to  the]  herth.  And 

the  residew  to  virtuous  and  meritorious  dedes  for  the  helth  of  my  soule  and  all  cristen  soules,  to' 
the  plesur  of  almighti  god.  I  make  my  Executors  Richard  Stubbynge  and  Will  my  sones. 

Wytnes  Sr  Wylim  Graunt,  clerk,  Will  Bell  th’elder,  Michaell  Raynold  [<fec.]. 

Comiss.  London,  Essex  &  Herts. 

The  messuages  bequeathed  by  the  testator  to  his  three  sons,  John,  Richard  and  William, 
remained  long  in  the  possession  of  his  descendants.  In  1574,  John,  the  youngest  son  of  John, 
left  Crookes  and  Harts  to  his  heirs.  Weegens  passed  from  Richard  to  his  son  William  (both  are 
named  as  residents  of  Bumpsted  Helion,  circa  1546,  in  the  Essex  Subsidy  Roll,  numbered  |-|A). 
And  this  William,  who  had  meanwhile  acquired  the  Manors  of  Bobulo  and  Bumpsted  Hall, 
settled  it,  in  1586,  upon  Henry  Stubbing,  one  of  his  younger  children.  [Chancery  Proceedings, 
Stubbyn  c  Stubbyn,  Mitford  vi,  161.]  As  late  as  1607  we  find  a  William  Stubbing  possessed 
of  Broadcroft,  Heywards,  Taillors,  Cockrells  aker  and  Sages,  the  inheritance  of  William,  the 
third  son  of  the  testator  of  1553. 


Mill  nf  Militant  Stubbing,  1544. 

In  ye  yere  of  our9  lorde  god  mvcxliiij  the  xviij  day  of  octobar9  I  Wylim  Stobbynge  of 
bumsted  heleon  in  the  covnty  of  essex,  sone  and  ayer9  of  Robard  Stobbyng  of  Hauell,  tannar9, 
in  the  county  of  Soil.  The  for  sayd  Wylim  ys  fulle  mynded  for  to  gooe  ho2  the  wa?  in  to 
calys  and  so  for  the  to  bolyn,  and  at  thys  day  afore  namyd  ys  fulle  mynded  to  make  my 
wylle  in  man)  and  foorme  as  here  af?  folow  :  furst  I  bequeth  my  soil  to  all  myty  god,  to  oS 

2  T2 


340 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


blyssyd  lady  saynt  mary,  and  to  all  the  blyssyd  company  of  heven.  Itm,  to  pore  pepull  to 
praye  for  my  soil  and  my  fathar’s  soli  and  my  mothar’s  soil  and  all  cresten  soils  xl8.  I?  I 
ay  fife  and  bequetb  to  Wylim  my  brothar  and  hes  chyldaryn  vi11  xiij8  iiijd,  yffe  so  be  yc  god  shold 
take  me  ou  to  hes  marsy,  or  I  make  ony  odar9  wylle ;  and  yfle  so  be  that  the  sayd  Wylim 

my  brothar  shold  ffex  or  trobell  my  exsecutur9  or  tornay  tham,  I  wylle  yk  the  sayd  Wylim 

shall  lesse  his  bequest.  It,  I  geue  to  Robard  my  brother  xls  upon  condyssheon  as  ys  a  for 
sayde.  To  the  chyldryn  of  Edmund  Stobbynge,  my  vncle,  to  euy  on  of  them  vi®  viijd. 
To  the  chyldryne  of  John,  my  vncle,  euy  of  them  vi8  viijd.  To  the  chyldryn  of 

Ry  chard  my  vncle  to  efry  on  of  them  vi®  viijd,  and  thay  to  haue  the  same  moy 

oothe  of  the  iiiju  that  their  fadar  do  howe  me  for  my  howsse.  To  the  chyldryn  of  Wilim  my 
vncle  to  efry  of  them  xiij®  iiijd,  and  to  Margaret  my  bedys,  and  to  Alis  my  girdill,  the 

chyldren  of  the  sayd  Wylim  my  vncle.  I  bequeth  to  Wylim  Stobbyng  my  sunne  whom  I  ordyn 
to  be  my  execu?  all  my  howsys,  londes,  meddowys,  passtores,  wodus  and  fedyngs,  sete  and  lying 
in  the  thowne  and  fyldys  of  Hauell  and  Wrattyng  in  Suffolk,  to  hem  ys  ayerres  and  asaynars  for 
ever5  more,  vppon  condysshon  if  I  maye  have  my  sayd  londus,  medows  and  pasture,  dewryng  my 
lyffe  for  gyffe  and  to  selle ;  and  yf  y1,  so  be  yfc  I  selle  ony  of  [them]  I  wylle  yl  Wylim 

Stobbyng  my  forsayd  sunne  shold  have  it  afore  ony  od9.  Yf  so  be  that  god  shold  take  me  on 
to  his  marcy  I  wylle  that  Wylim  my  sunne  shold  fullefelle  my  wylle.  The  rescedew  of  my  odre 
godes  I  gyffe  to  Wylim  Stobbyng  my  sunne,  my  executur  aforseyd,  to  gyffe  and  despose  for  my 
solle  and  all  crestyn  solles  were  he  se  the  most  nede.  Thes  beyng  wetnes ;  Mycaell  Raynold, 
John  brege,  Robard  Wellys,  Thomas  Haryson,  clarke,  wfc  od9  moe. 

Reg’ro  vi°  Decembris  anno  Sni  m  vc  xlv°. 

Com.  Lond.  Essex  &  Herts. 


Will  of  Joljtt  Stubbing  of  jKosses,  1557. 

The  ixth  daye  of  June,  1557.  I  John  Stubbyng  of  Mosses  in  Bumsted  Helyon  do  make 
this  my  wyll  in  manl  folowyng.  That  is  to  weete,  I  bequeth  my  sowll  vnto  Allmyghty  God 
T  to  our  lady  Seynt  Mary  T  to  all  the  holy  Company  of  hevyn.  And  my  bodye  to  be  buryed 
in  the  church  of  Bumsted  Helyon  aforesaid.  Vnto  John  Stubbing  my  eldest  son  all  my  londes 
T  tentes  late  pcell  of  the  psonage  of  Bumsted.  Ynto  Amye  my  wyfe,  my  mesuage  T  all  londes 
called  Sages  duryng  her  lyfe  T  after  her  decesse  it  shall  remayn  seuallye  vnto  Gyles  T  Wylim 
my  sons  in  coraon  and  to  their  heires  of  their  bodyes ;  for  defaute  of  such  yssue  to  seid  Gyles 
T  Wylim  for  euer.  Said  Gyles  T  Wilim  shall  haue  them  at  their  ages  of  syxten  yeres  xx®  out 
of  Sages  duryng  my  wyfes  lyfe.  Vnto  seid  Amye  my  wife  my  messuage  T  londes  called  Mossis 
or  Morses  T  Morselongs  in  Bumsted,  T  after  her  decease  they  shall  remayn  vnto  Thomas  T 
Rychard  my  sons  equally.  Vnto  Amye  my  dough  ter  xiij11  vi®  viiid  at  the  daye  of  her  maryage. 
I  make  Amye  my  wyfe  soole  executryx.  I  ordeyn  my  brother,  yong  John  Stubbyng,  svpJvysor. 
Wytnesses,  Wyllam  ....  Rychard  Fytch  T  Wyllyam  Staycye,  w1  others.  No  probate. 

Com.  Lond.,  Essex  and  Herts. 

By  an  Inquisition  taken  at  Stratford  Langthorne  in  Essex  7th  February,  9th  Elizabeth, 
it  was  found  that  John  Stubbing,  yeoman,  had  died  on  the  23d  of  January  previously,  and  that 
he  had  held  lands,  late  part  of  the  Rectory  of  Bumpsted  Helion,  of  the  Queen.  The  messuage 


STUBBING  OF  NAUGHTON. 


341 


called  Sages  was  a  fief  of  the  Masters  and  Fellows  of  the  Savoy ;  and  that  known  as  Mosses, 
of  the  Masters  and  Fellows  of  Queen’s  College,  Cambridge.  John  Stubbing,  the  son  and  heir, 
was  stated  to  be  of  the  age  of  sixteen  years,  but  he  was  certainly  older.  By  another  mistake 
Amy  his  wife  is  described  as  Agnes.  Inaccuracies  of  this  kind  are  not  infrequent  in  the  hurried 
returns  of  the  Eschaetors. 


$ttrdjas£  of  ®ss n  jltanors,  1565  an 5  1580. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  fine  Rcgine  apud  Westm  in  crastino  see  Trinitatis 
anno  regno^  Elizabeth,  Angtie,  Franc  T  Hibn  Regine,  vicesimo  sedo.  In?  Wilim  Stubbinge, 
quer,  et  Edwardum  Comitem  Oxoii,  deforc  3e  Marino  de  Bumpsted  hall,  ac  de  viginti  mesuagiis, 
viginti  gardinis,  mille  acris  ?re,  centum  acris  prati,  quingentis  acris  pasture,  quadraginta  acris 
bosci  T  sex  lib  rat  reddit,  in  Bumpsted  Helyon,  Bumpsted  ad  Turrim  T  Hempsted.  Ynde  plitni 
conuencois  sum  fuit  inter  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Scilt  pefeus  Comes  recogn  {idea  manium,  ten  1 
reddit  esse  ius  ipius  Willi,  vt  ill  que  idem  Wilis  het  de  dono  j?dci  Comitis.  Et  p  hac  recogn, 
remissione,  quietclam  Warant,  fine  T  concordia  idem  Wilis  concessit-  pdeo  Comiti  quandam 
annuitatem  viginti  libris  exeun  annualem  de  pdcis  manerio  [&c.]. 

Fine,  Essex,  Trin.  22  Eliz. 

By  a  similar  fine,  now  missing,  William  Stubbing  had  already  purchased  of  William  Cordell 
the  Manor  of  Bobulo  in  Bumpsted  Helion  aforesaid. 

Index  Finium,  Yol.  Y,  Hili.  8  Eliz.  1565. 

Bumpsted  Hall  passed  to  Edmund  Stubbing,  a  great-grandson  of  the  purchaser,  in  1638, 
on  the  death  of  his  father.  (Inq.  p.  m.,  1 4  Chas.  C.  487,  120).  Another  Edmund  Stubbing,  the 
purchaser’s  great-great-grandson,  succeeded  to  Bobulo  in  1662.  See  the  will  of  his  mother,  Joan 
Stubbing  of  Cottenham  in  Cambridgeshire,  P.C.C.  9  Land. 


Mill  of  Joint  Stubbing,  1574. 

John  Stoubbyng  of  Bumpsted  Helyon,  ye  xijth  of  ...  .  1574.  To  be  buryed  w4in  ye 
gyshe  churche.  Ynto  Mary  my  wyffe  my  ten6  y4  I  now  dwell  in  called  Croukes  and  my  copy 
growndes,  pcell  of  Hartes,  duryng  her  lyff.  Ynto  WylPm  Stoubbyng  my  sone,  after  her 
decease,  the  forseid  ten4  called  Croukes  &  ye  horn  pasture,  and,  for  lack  of  heyres  of  his  bodie, 
remainder  to  Thomas  my  son.  To  said  Wyllam  my  sone  a  pece  of  grownd  by  the  lond  new 
broken  vp,  pcell  of  Harts.  Vnto  Thomas  Stoubyng  my  sone  y®  closse  new  broken  vp ;  also 
one  medow  y4  lye  vnder  a  wood  called  Ould  Cote  hedge,  for  lyfe,  and  then  for  lack  of  yssu 
of  his  body  to  Wyllam  my  sone  &  to  his  heyeres.  Vnto  John  my  sone  arable  lond  abuttyng 
on  ye  hed  of  Huntyngwell  [&c.,  &c.].  For  lack  of  yssu  of  his  body  I  geue  yt  to  Rychard  my 
sone ;  also  peccys  of  lond  in  Owtfyld  [&c.].  Elyner  and  Johan  Stonbyng  my  dowghters.  The 
resydue  of  my  goods  [&c.]  to  Mary  my  wyfe  whom  I  ordeyne  mv  solle  executryxe. 
Wytnesses : — Rychard  Fytche,  WylFm  Stoubbyng,  Rose  Alen,  John  Stoubbyng  of  Blakemans, 
Wyllam  Rose. 


Comiss.  Lond.,  Essex  &  Herts. 


342 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Militant  Stubbing,  1599. 

I  Willam  Stubbin  of  Stansfield  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  this  8th  daye  of  October  in 
the  41st  yeare  of  the  raigne  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  beinge  of  good  minde  and  remembrance, 
praised  be  God  therefore,  knowing  the  estate  of  all  men  to  be  fraile  and  mortall,  and  soe  the 
time  of  death  to  be  uncertaine,  doe  ordaine,  make  and  declare  this  my  last  will.  That  is  say, 
I  comend  my  soule  to  Allmightie  God  my  Creator  and  to  Jesus  Christ  my  Redeemer,  and  my 
bodie  to  be  buried  in  the  Churchyard  of  Stansfield  aforesaid.  I  give  and  bequeath  to  Joan  my 

wife  my  moietie  and  halfe  gte  in  the  two  tenements,  the  one  whereof  is  called  Hatches  and  the 

other  Lausels,  with  the  land  and  pasture  belonging,  to  her  for  her  natural  life :  and  I  give  her 
the  use  of  all  my  household  stuffe. 

Unto  Edmund  Stubbin,  my  eldest  sonne  I  bequeath  my  abovenamed  moietie  of  Hatches 
and  Lausels,  on  my  wifes  decease,  with  the  lands  and  pastures  aforesaid.  I  give  unto  Richard 
my  sonne  tenne  poundes.  When  Edmund  my  sonne  has  the  whole  right  in  Lausells,  he  is  to 
make  an  assurance  of  part  of  it  to  my  said  sonne  Richard ;  and  if  Richard  die  without  issue 
then  it  is  to  return  to  Edmund. 

Unto  Ambrose  Stubbin  my  sonne  twenty  shillings  yearlie  for  his  life.  To  Joan  and  Agnes, 

my  daughters,  to  either  of  them  the  surae  of  fiive  poundes.  On  the  decease  of  Joane  my  saide 

wife,  the  household  goodes  to  be  equallie  pted  betwene  my  sonne  Ambrose  and  my  two  daughters. 
To  everie  poore  person  in  Stansfield  the  sume  of  iiijd  to  be  payed  on  my  buriall  daye.  My  sonne 
Edmonde  Stubbin  to  be  sole  executor.  Witnesses,  WilPm  Smith,  Willam  Grimwoode.  Proved  at 
Lavenham  22d  June  1602  by  the  executor.  Bury  Wills,  1600-5,  fo.  131. 


SSRxlI  of  (Ebmmtfr  Stubbing,  1654. 

Decimo  quinto  die  Februarij,  1634,  I  Edmond  Stubbin  of  Nawton  in  the  countie  of 
Suffolke,  clerke,  being  in  healthe  of  boddye  and  in  pfecte  mynde  and  remembrance,  thankes  be 
to  god  therfore,  yet  knoweiug  death  to  be  uncerteyne,  I  doe  make  this  my  last  will  and 
testament.  First  and  principally  I  bequeath  my  soule  into  the  handes  of  God  my  Creator  and 
mercifull  father,  and  to  Jesus  Christ  my  Saviour  and  redeemer,  and  unto  the  blessed  spiritt 
my  sanctifier  and  comforter,  in  assured  hope,  after  this  miserable  life  ended,  to  live  with  them 
in  eternytie  of  glory.  And  this  my  earthly  bodie  I  comitt  unto  the  earth,  the  comon  mother 
of  us  all,  to  be  buried  where  it  shall  please  god  in  his  providence  to  order,  in  assured  hope 
of  the  resurrection  of  it  at  that  last  and  great  daye,  to  be  made  like  unto  Christ’s  glorious 

bodie.  And  as  for  that  portion  of  goodes  it  hath  pleased  God  to  lend  me  in  this  frail  life, 

I  doe  thus  order  and  dispose  of  it : — My  loveing  wife  J ane  Stubbin  to  have  all  such  goods 
and  implements  as  she  brought  me  at  her  marriage ;  and  she  is  to  enjoy  her  thirds  out  of  all 

my  lands  &c.  To  my  sonne  Samuel  Stubbin  my  ancient  tenement  in  Stansfield  called  Lawsells, 

which  was  my  father’s  and  grandfather’s,  in  reversion  on  the  death  of  his  uncle  Richard  Stubbin, 
my  brother,  to  him  and  his  heirs  for  ever.  I  give  him  also  all  my  books  except  Aretius  on 
the  New  Testament,  Calvin  upon  Isaiah,  Calvin  upon  the  small  prophets,  Cooper’s  dictionary, 
my  Tremellius’  Bible,  my  lesser  Beza’s  Testament  and  Calvin’s  Institutions,  which  I  give  unto 


STUBBING  OF  NAUGHTON. 


343 


John  Norton  my  grandchild.  To  my  said  son  Samuel,  my  apparell,  except  my  best  cloak  and 
stuffe  cassock,  which  I  give  unto  Stephen  Norton  my  sonne  in  lawe.  To  my  sonne  Jonathan 
Stubbin  I  bequeath  my  tenement  in  Nawton  and  ground  and  meadow  copyhold  of  Whatfield 
Hall  Manor,  he  paying  his  brother  Samuel  five  pounds  a  year  rent.  Of  this,  two  and  twenty 
shillings  [are]  as  rent  paide  to  his  brother  Joshua  for  the  house  wherein  my  sonne  Samuel  now 
dwelleth,  and  the  residue  towards  the  maintenance  of  his  youngest  daughter  Sara  Stubbin.  If  my 
sonne  Jonathan  die  before  he  has  taken  up  this  tenement,  then  my  sonne  in  lawe  Stephen 
Norton  is  to  have  it.  Also  to  my  sonne  Jonathan  my  tenement  in  Naughton  called  Golds, 
charged  with  payment  for  the  maintenance  of  my  grandchild  John  Norton  at  Cambridge.  To  my 
daughter,  Elizabeth  Cole,  ten  shillings  for  a  ring.  To  my  said  sonne  J onathan  I  give  the 
Advowson  of  the  Rectory  of  Nawton.  To  Ambrose  Stubbin  my  brother.  My  sonne  Jonathan 
Stubbin  and  sonne  in  lawe  Stephen  Norton  to  be  executors.  Robert  Grymwade,  Nichalas  Pegge, 
Thomas  Rosier,  Witnesses.  Proved  18th  Sept.  1638,  by  Jonathan  Stubbin,  son  of  the  deceased; 
power  reserved  to  the  other  executor.  Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury.  Wills,  1636-1638,  fo.  348. 


Mill  of  fonatijan  Stubbing,  1661. 

The  21st  day  of  February,  1661,  I  Jonathan  Stubbin  of  Gosfeild  in  the  County  of  Essex, 
gent.,  doe  make  this  my  last  will.  I  comend  my  soule  into  the  handes  of  God  my  Creator, 
and  my  body  to  the  earth.  I  giue  vnto  Josias  Stubbin  (my  kinsman)  gent,  and  his  heires  my 
Rectory  of  Nauton  in  the  County  of  Suffolke  and  all  the  Gleabe  lands,  which  I  had  by  the 
will  of  Edmund  Stubbin  my  father,  late  of  Nauton,  Clef,  for  him,  the  said  Josias  Stubbin,  to 
present  a  minister  as  often  as  neede  shall  require.  I  bequeath  vnto  my  welbeloued  brother 
Samuell  Stubbin  of  Nauton  aforesaid,  Clef,  three  pounds  every  yeare,  over  and  aboue  the  ffiue 
poundes  which  I  pay  him  yearly  by  the  will  of  my  ffather.  Ynto  Katherine  and  Elizabeth 
Stubbin,  daughters  of  the  said  Samuell  my  brother,  twenty  poundes  a  peece.  Ynto  Sara  Stubbin, 
the  younger  daughter  of  the  Samuell,  thirty  poundes,  which  my  executor  shall  imploye  for  the 
good  of  said  Sarah  and  her  children.  Ynto  Anne  Norton,  daughter  of  my  sister  Sarah  Norton, 
tenn  poundes.  Vnto  the  rest  of  my  sister  Norton’s  daughters  twenty  pounds  to  be  equally  divided 
amongst  them.  Vnto  the  daughters  of  Francis  Cole,  which  he  had  by  my  youngest  sister 
Elizabeth  Stubbin,  twenty  poundes.  Ynto  my  kinsmen  John  Clarke,  sonne  of  James  Clarke  of 
Booking,  ffiue  poundes.  Ynto  Susanna  Clarke  and  Martha  Clarke,  daughters  of  the  said  James, 
ffiue  pounds  by  equall  porcons.  Ynto  Samuell  Stubbin  sonne  of  Samuell  my  brother.  Vnto  the 
aforenamed  J  osias  Stubbin  my  kinsman  all  my  coppyhold  messuages,  and  my  two  ffreehold 
messuages,  with  the  lands  belonging,  lyeing  in  Whatfield  and  Nauton  in  Suffolke.  All  the  rest 
of  my  goods  vnbequeathed  I  giue  vnto  the  said  Josias  Stubbin.  If  he  depart  this  life  before 
this  my  will  is  proved,  then  I  give  the  said  messuages  and  goodes  vnto  William  Daniell  of 
Braintry,  clothier,  to  be  sold.  And  the  moneys  which  the  said  premisses  shalbe  sold  for  shalbe 
devided  in  two  parts  to  the  children  of  said  Samuell  my  brother,  and  the  remainder  amongst 
my  sister’s  Norton’s  children  and  my  sister  Cole’s  children.  I  giue  vnto  the  said  Josias  Stubbin 
my  messuage  in  the  occupation  of  Robert  Archer,  and  my  messuages  in  the  occupacon  of  John 
Groome,  being  in  Nawton  aforesaid.  I  rdoe  ordaine  the  said  Josias  Stubbin  sole  executor 
Probatum  septimo  die  Maij  1668,  Juramento  Josiae  Stubin  executoris.  P.C.C.  71  Hene. 


344 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


SMI  of  Josiab  (Slabbing,  1686. 

I,  Josiah  Stubbin  of  Offton  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  Gent,  do  this  present  16th  day  of 
November  in  the  second  yeare  of  the  Raigne  of  King  James  the  Second,  1686,  make  my  present 
last  Will  and  Testament.  I  give  unto  Elizabeth  my  loving  wife  one  Annuity  of  twenty  pounds 
during  her  naturall  life,  out  of  my  coppyhold  messuage,  lands  and  tenements  in  Layham,  holden 
of  the  Manor  of  N etherbu ry  Hall.  Unto  Josiah  Stubbin  my  eldest  sonne  my  messuage  with  the 
land  belonging,  wherein  the  widow  Archer  now  liveth,  in  Offton  and  Bildeston  ;  also  the  copy 
messuage,  out  of  which  the  Annuity  before  named  shall  be  paid.  I  give  him  my  silver  headed 
cane,  my  silver  hilted  rapier  with  the  silver  imbroidered  belt,  and  my  gold  Seale  Ring,  to  be 
delivered  unto  him  at  his  age  of  eighteen  yea  res.  I  bequeath  unto  my  sonne  Edmund  Stubbing 
my  messuage  and  lands  in  the  occupacon  of  James  Cuthbert  in  Nawton,  and  also  that  Barne 
with  the  ground  belonging,  being  sixteen  acres,  which  I  purchased  of  Sarah  Stubbin,  widow. 
Unto  my  sonne  Edmund  the  messuage  wherein  William  Pegg  dwelleth,  and  the  messuage  and 
land  wherein  Daniel  Roberts  liveth,  in  Nawton,  and  that  messuage  with  the  Smyth’s  Shopp 
wherein  William  Groome  liveth,  in  Nawton,  and  that  messuage  with  land  wherein  Richard  Syer 
now  liveth :  and  the  ggetuall  Advowson  of  my  Rectory  or  Parsonage  of  Nawton,  with  the 
Parsonage  House,  Glebe,  Tythes  and  Rights  to  the  same  belonging.  I  give  my  said  sonne 

Edmund  my  imbroidred  black  fringed  Belt,  my  inlaid  Sword,  my  Gold  mourning  Ring,  my 

Jappan  Cane  with  a  silver  head,  to  be  delivered  unto  him  at  the  age  of  eighteen  yeares.  Unto 
my  sonne  John  Stubbin  I  give  my  Buff  Belt  and  best  case  of  Pistolls,  at  his  age  of  eighteen 
yeares.  Unto  my  daughters  Elizabeth  and  Ellen  Stubbin  the  messuage  and  lands  in  Shotley 

and  Chemston  in  the  said  County  of  Suffolk  in  the  occupacon  of  Leonard  Folgate  to  be  divided 

equally  between  them :  also  one  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  apiece,  at  their  severall  ages  of  one 
and  twenty  yeares.  Unto  my  daughter  Elizabeth  I  give  my  Diamond  Ring  with  six  diamonds, 
at  her  age  of  eighteen  years.  Unto  my  daughter  Bridgett  one  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  at  her 

age  of  twenty  one  years.  Unto  my  sister  Sarah  Lawrance  one  Annuity  of  three  pounds,  and  to 

Mary  and  Josiah  Lawrance  her  children  the  sume  of  fiive  poundes.  Younger  children  to  be 
brought  up  by  my  wife  until  they  be  fitt  to  be  putt  to  school.  Household  stuffe  and  Plate  to 
be  equally  divided  between  my  wife  and  children  when  Josiah  my  sonne  attains  his  one  and 
twenty  yeares.  If  my  sonnes  and  daughters  all  dye  without  heires  before  the  age  of  one  and 

twenty  yeares  I  give  the  one  moyety  of  my  Personal  Estate  to  my  wife  and  the  other  to  be 

equally  divided  amongst  my  sister  Sarah  Lawrence’s  children.  I  appoint  Ambrose  Chapman  of 
Framsden,  clerk,  Henry  Jones  of  Nawton,  and  Elizabeth  my  wife  executors  during  the  minority 
of  my  sonne  Edmund.  When  shall  attain  his  age  of  twenty  one  yeares  I  appoint  him  sole 
executor.  Signed,  sealed,  published  and  declared  in  the  presence  of  us,  Andrew  Rudland,  Robert. 
Sparrow,  Henry  Sherman.  Archdeaconry  of  Suffolk. 


Still  of  doljn  (Stubbing,  1757. 

This  is  the  last  will  and  testament  of  me,  John  Stubbin  of  Raydon  in  the  County  of 
Suffolk,  Gentleman.  Having  surrendered  all  my  customary  lands  and  tenements  to  the 
use  of  my  will  I  do  give  and  devise  unto  my  son  Partridge  Stubbin  and  his  heirs  my 
messuage  and  ffarm  situate  in  Naughton  in  the  county  aforesaid.  I  give  unto  my  daughter 
Frances  Stubbin  and  her  heirs  my  messuage  and  ffarme  in  Offton  in  the  County  aforesaid.  Unto- 


STUBBING  OF  NAUGHTON. 


345 


my  daughter  Bridgett,  the  wife  of  John  Brownrigg  Leak,  Clerk,  and  her  heirs  my  Advowson  of  the 
Rectory  and  parsonage  of  Naughton,  and  all  the  Tythes,  Rights  and  privileges  thereunto  belonging  ; 
also  my  Messuage  and  Blacksmith’s  Shop  and  all  the  lands  belonging  in  Naughton.  Unto  my 
daughter  Ellen  Stubbin  and  her  heirs  my  messuage  and  ffarm  in  Bricett  in  the  county  aforesaid  ; 
also  my  copyhold  messuage  and  ffarm  lying  in  Hitcham  in  the  county  aforesaid,  now  or  late  in 
the  occupation  of  the  widow  Scott.  I  bequeath  unto  Elizabeth  my  wife  and  Elizabeth  my  daughter, 
their  heirs  and  assigns,  equally  to  be  divided  and  their  heirs  as  tenants  in  common,  all  the 
rest  and  residue  of  my  real  estates.  Unto  my  son  John  Stubbin  the  sum  of  two  hundred  and 
fifty  pounds.  Unto  my  said  daughter  Frances  Stubbin  one  hundred  pounds.  My  Executrixes 
hereafter  named  shall  lay  out  the  sum  of  five  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  in  the  purchase  of 
freehold  lands,  which  shall  be  settled  and  conveyed  unto  my  said  daughter  Bridgett  Leake. 
Unto  the  said  Elizabeth  my  wife  all  my  household  goods  and  [furniture.  And  I  give  unto  my 
said  wife  and  the  said  Elizabeth  Stubbin  my  daughter  and  their  representatives,  equally  to  be 
divided  between  them,  all  the  rest  of  my  personal  estate.  And  I  nominate  and  appoint  [them] 
joint  Executrixes  of  this  my  will.  This  twenty  fifth  day  of  February  1757. 


Mill  of  Holm  (Stubbing,  1769. 

I  John  Stubbin  of  Raydon  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  Gentleman,  weak  in  body  but  of 

sound  mind  (praised  be  God)  do,  this . day  of .  1769,  make  my  last  will  and 

testament  in  manner  following.  To  Elizabeth  my  wife  I  bequeath  the  moiety  of  my  Manor  or 
Lordship  of  Chippely,  and  the  moiety  of  my  farm  in  Posliugford  and  Stansfield  for  life,  with 
remainder  after  her  decease  to  her  son  Newman  John  Stubbin,  and  his  heirs  for  ever.  I  also 
give  her  the  tenement  and  farm  called  Etevells  situate  in  Layham,  with  remainder  to  her  said 
son  Newman  John  Stubbin.  To  Francis  Stubbin  my  son  the  messuage  and  farm  in  Brookhouse 

in  Raydon,  now  in  his  own  occupation.  To  my  son  John  Stubbin  the  tenement  called  Cohooks 

in  Stoke  by  Nayland,  with  half  the  well  and  all  the  gardens,  lying  in  a  certain  street  called 
Thorrington  Street.  Also  to  the  said  John  Stubbin  I  give  my  Silver  Tankard,  and  the  six 
silver  spoons,  which  were  my  ffather’s  and  grandfathers,  with  the  ffamily  Arms  and  Crest 

thereon.  To  my  daughter,  Ann  Ram  Stubbin,  I  bequeath  the  Gold  Watch  and  Diamond  Ring 
which  were  her  late  mother’s.  My  wife  Elizabeth  Stubbin  to  chuse  for  herself  household  goods 

and  furniture  to  the  value  of  thirty  pounds.  Unto  John  Stubbin,  Francis  Stubbin  and  Ann 

Ram  Stubbin  I  give  all  the  remainder  of  my  linnen  and  plate,  and  all  my  China,  to  be 

equally  divided  amongst  them.  I  further  give  to  John  Stubbin  my  son  three  hundred  pounds 
out  of  my  residuary  estate.  The  remainder  to  be  equally  divided  between  the  same  John, 

Francis,  and  Ann  Ram  Stubbin.  I  appoint  my  brother  Josiah  Stubbin  and  Michael  Cooper  to 
be  the  Executors  of  this  will.  Witnesses  : — Partridge  Stubbin,  Henry  Cook,  Samuel  Meddowes. 


3MUI  nf  Amij  Stubbing,  1763. 

Amy  Stubbin,  wife  of  John  Stubbin  of  Raydon,  and  late  of  Stoke  near  Nayland  in 
Suffolk,  gentleman,  this  22nd  da)?  of  October,  1763.  First  I  confirm  the  settlements  made  by 
me  upon  the  said  John  Stubbin  previous  to  my  marriage  with  him.  I  give  him  all  my  estate 

2  u 


346 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


indisposed  of  by  these  settlements  of  and  in  the  messuage  and  ffarm  called  Brook  House  lying 
in  Raydon  or  Layham,  to  him  and  his  heirs  for  ever ;  he  paying  the  following  legacies  : — To 
Sarah  Coleman,  one  of  the  children  of  Joseph  Coleman,  clerk,  by  his  former  wife,  the  sum  of 
£100  at  her  age  of  twenty  one  years.  To  Joseph  and  Francis  Coleman,  two  other  of  the 
children  of  Joseph  Coleman,  clerk,  by  his  said  former  wife,  £100  apiece.  And  to  Richard 
Newman  and  Elizabeth  Newman,  son  and  daughter  of  Richard  Newman  of  Kersey  in  Suffolk, 
and  also  to  Thorney  [Thornhagh]  Gurdon,  son  of  Philippa  Guidon  of  Hadleigh,  widow,  and 
Letitia  Gurdon,  daughter  of  said  widow',  the  sum  of  £100  apiece,  to  be  paid  after  the  decease 
of  the  said  John  Stubbin.  I  give  the  Manor  of  Georges,  otherwise  called  Castells,  with  the 
scite  of  the  same  Manor,  and  all  rights,  messuages,  meadows,  pastures  and  woods  to  the  same 
belonging,  situate  in  Thorpe  Morieux,  unto  George  Clarke  of  Hadleigh,  during  the  term  of  his 
life,  and  after  his  decease  to  my  Executors,  in  trust,  to  sell  the  same.  I  direct  the  money 
arising  thereby  to  be  equally  divided  amongst  the  children  of  the  said  George  Clarke,  Sarah 
Coleman,  Joseph  and  Frances  Coleman,  Richard  and  Elizabeth  Newman,  Thorney  Gurdon  and 
Letitia  Gurdon,  share  and  share  alike.  I  appoint  my  said  husband  and  John  Wall  of  Holton 
in  Suffolk,  gentleman,  Executors.  The  residue  of  lands,  etc.,  and  all  my  personal  estate  I 
bequeath  unto  the  use  of  my  said  husband,  John  Stubbin,  his  heirs  and  executors.  In  witness 
whereof  I  set  my  seal. 

Stratford,  8th  July  1765,  John  Stubbin,  one  of  the  executors  within  named,  was  sw'orn 
faithfully  to  execute  this  will. 

Archdeaconry  of  Suffolk. 

The  testatrix,  a  descendant  of  the  knightly  family  of  Brand  of  Boxford,  was  John 
Stubbing’s  second  wife.  She  was  cousin  german  to  George  Clarke  of  Hadleigh  and  his  sisters 
Elizabeth  and  Philippa,  who  married,  respectively,  Richard  Newman  and  the  Rev.  Parker 
Gurdon.  She  names  their  children,  Elizabeth  Newman,  Thornhagh  Gurdon  and  Letitia  Gurdon. 
Elizabeth  Newman  became  the  third  wife  of  John  Stubbing,  the  testatrix’s  husband,  while 
Letitia  Gurdon  married  Vero  Kemball,  great  grandfather  to  the  present  Lady  Tollemache.  The 
Clarkes  were  children  of  the  Rev.  George  Clarke,  Rector  of  Raydon,  a  well  known  clergyman 
of  his  day,  who  married  Elizabeth  Brand,  the  aunt  of  the  writer  of  the  will.  See  the  pedigree 
of  Gurdon  of  Assington,  Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  i,  287. 


Still  of  (SUjabetlj  Stubbing,  1771. 

I,  Elizabeth  Stubbin,  of  Higham  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  being  weak  in  body,  but  of 
sound  mind,  praised  be  God  for  the  same,  make  this  my  last  will  and  testament  this  19th  day 
of  August,  1771.  I  desire  to  be  buried  in  the  ffamily  vault  at  Holton.  I  bequeath  unto  my 
sister,  Frances  Stubbin  of  Higham,  spinster-,  the  house  and  farm,  with  all  the  garden,  orchards, 
lands,  pastures,  and  meadows  belonging,  for  the  term  of  her  life,  and  after  her  decease  to  my 
nephew,  John  Stubbin,  eldest  son  of  my  late  brother  John  Stubbin,  and  to  his  heirs.  I  give 
to  my  said  sister  Frances  for  her  natural  life,  the  messuage  now  in  the  occupation  of  John 
Chisnall,  and  afterwards  to  my  said  nephew  John  Stubbin,  charged  with  the  payment  of  seven 
hundred  pounds  in  such  share  as  follows: — To  my  nephew  Josiah,  eldest  son  of  Josiah  Stubbin 


STUBBING  OF  NAUGHTON. 


347 


of  Raydon,  £200,  to  be  paid  after  the  decease  of  my  sister  Frances  Stubbin.  To  ray  niece 
Ann  Stubbin,  daughter  of  my  said  brother  Josiah,  £200.  To  my  nephew  John  Leake,  only  son 
of  John  Brownrigg  Leake  of  Hadleigh,  £300.  I  bequeath  my  ffarm  in  East  Bergholt  and 
Stratford  unto  my  sister  Ellen  Stubbin  of  Higham  To  Dame  Martha  Martin,  relict  of  Sir  George 
Martin,  late  of  Melford  in  Suffolk,  the  sum  of  ten  guineas,  to  be  paid  after  my  decease,  for 
mourning.  It  is  my  will  that  the  said  Dame  Martha  Martin  may  take  away  any  such  shrubs 
and  plants  that  may  belong  to  her.  All  the  rest  of  my  personal  estate,  plate,  china,  linnen, 
ffurniture,  Harming  stock,  bills,  bonds  and  mortgages,  I  give  to  my  sister  Ellen  Stubbin  to  hold 
to  her  own  for  ever;  and  I  appoint  her  sole  Executrix. 

Archdeaconry  of  Suffolk. 


Will  of  Juan  Stubbing  of  (kotU'ttljam,  1661. 

Joan  Stubbing  of  Cottenhara  in  the  County  of  Cambridge,  widdowe,  this  18th  day  of 
July,  1661.  Concerning  the  temporall  estate  which  the  Lord  hath  given  me,  I  give  to  my 
daughter  Stoughton  £150 ;  the  hundred  poundes  to  be  paid  after  my  decease,  and  the  other 
fifty  within  one  yeare  after  my  executor’s  entry  upon  his  land  in  Bobloe.  To  my  daughter 

Joannah  Stubbing  £200;  one  hundred  and  fifty  to  be  paid  her  at  her  age  of  one  and  twenty 

yeares  or  upon  the  day  of  her  marriage,  which  of  them  shall  first  come  to  passe ;  which 

severall  suines  of  money  were  given  by  their  late  ffather,  Mr  Edmond  Stubbing ;  the  other  fifty 
poundes  to  be  paid  her  by  my  executor  within  one  yeare  after  his  entry  vpon  my  land  in 

Bobloe  alias  Bobulo.  To  my  sister  Mns  Deborah  Wooley,  twenty  shillings  to  buy  her  a  ring 

withall,  as  a  remembrance  of  my  love.  1  give  to  my  sone  Edmund  Stubbings  [sic]  all  that 

part  of  the  Mannor  of  Bobloe  heretofore  in  the  possession  of  my  brother,  John  Stubbing,  with 

all  the  houses,  woods,  tythes,  rents  and  reversions  belonging,  scituate  in  Bumpsted  Hellions  in 

Essex,  and  all  other  my  lands  and  tenements,  he  to  pay  the  sumes  of  money  to  his  sisters 

as  is  specified.  I  give  him  all  my  goodes,  and  make  him  my  executor  of  this  my  last  will 

and  testament.  P.C.C.  90  Laud. 

John  Stubbing,  the  brother  named  in  the  will,  was  of  Bobulo  in  Bumpsted  Helion  in 
1638.  The  manor  was  purchased  by  their  grandfather,  William  Stubbing,  in  1546. 


JHanor  of  JBnmpstrf)  Sail. 

“  Edward  de  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford,  obtained  a  license,  12  May  1580,  to  alienate  this 
Manor  and  lands  called  le  Gibbons  Fee  to  William  Stubbing,  Gent.,  who  held  them  of  the  King. 
He  dyed  30  Dec.  1603,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Richard,  then  aged  60  years.  Edmund 
Stubbing,  Gent.,  his  brother  and  successor,  dyed  6  Sept1'  1630.  William  his  eldest  son  was  30 
years  old  ;  besides  whom  he  had  Thomas,  Henry,  and  John.  William  married  Mary  Collin  and 
dyed  5  Aug.  1638,  leaving  Edmund  his  son,  9  years.  Since  that  time  this  estate  hath  been 
possessed  by  Thomas;  and  by  another  Thomas,  who  dyed  29th  Sept1'  1744,  and  was  succeeded 
by  his  only  son  Thomas  Stubbing,  Esq.,  made  a  Justice  of  Peace  in  January  1744-5. 

Morant’s  “  History  of  Essex,”  ii,  532. 


348 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


iprtricjm,  stubbing  of  33uinpsitcti  Triton. 


William  Stubbing,  of  Bumpsted  Helion,  co.  Essex,  where  he  had  messuages  called=pJohan,  his  wife, 


Burtons,  Moroes  or  Mosses,  Crookes,  Fosters  and  Byrdys,  and  lands  called  Sages. 
Will,  P.C.C.  2  Dogett,  28  April  1491.  To  be  buried  in  the  church  by  the  sepulchre 
of  his  father  and  his  mother. 


to  have  Bur¬ 
ton’s,  etc.,  dur¬ 
ing  her  life. 


William  Stubbing,  of  Bumpsted  Helion.  Will,  Com.-^p.. 
Lond.,  Essex  and  Herts,  1532 ;  to  be  bur.  in  the 
church  ;  had  messuage  called  Weggens. 


Alice,  wife  of  John  Aleyn  ;  both  John  Stubbing,  to  whom  his  father  be-= 
named  in  her  father’s  Will,  queathed  a  messuage  called  Byrdys, 
1491.  1491. 


John  Stubbing,  eld¬ 
est  son  ;  to  whom  his 
father  left  Harts  and 
Crookes  in  Bump¬ 
sted,  1532 ;  mar.  and 
had  issue. 


Richard  Stubbing,  2d 
son,  to  whom  his  fa¬ 
ther  left  Weggens, 
1532 ;  of  Bumpsted 
Helion,  1546  (Essex 
Subsidy,  109,  281). 


William  Stubbing,  3d  son, 
to  whom  his  father  left 
Sages  and  Broadcroft ;  of 
Bumpsted  Helion,  1546. 
Will,  Com.  Lond.,  Essex 
and  Herts.,  1553. 


Edmund  Stubbing, 
named  1532  in  his 
father’s  Will,  and 
1544  in  that  of  his 
nephew,  William 
Stubbing. 


Robert  Stubbing, = 
of  Haverhill,  co. 
Suffolk.  Will, 
P.C.C.  27  Bod- 
feld,  1524 ;  oh.  vita 
patris. 


i - 

William 
Stub¬ 
bing,  eld¬ 
est  son, 
1632. 


Richard  Stub¬ 
bing,  named 
in  his  grand¬ 
father’s  Will, 
1532. 


r  r  r  n  r 
William.  John. 


Christian. 


Lewis. 


Margaret.  Joane. 


Richard.  Alice. 


Elizabeth. 


John  Stubbing,  nam¬ 
ed,  1554,  in  the  Will 
of  William  Stubbing, 
his  cousin,  of  Bum- 
sted  Helion. 


Richard  Stub¬ 
bing,  named 
in  the  Will  of 
William  Stub¬ 
bing  1544. 


:Margaret, 
probably 
dau.  of 
Jn.  Cook, 
of  Helma- 
don. 


i — 

William, 
his  son, 
livi  ng 
1491. 


William  Stubbing; 
the  younger  1524 , 
living  and  had  issue 
1544,  when  his  bro¬ 
ther  made  his  Will. 


John  Stubbing, 
youngest  son, 
1532 ;  had  Harts 
&  Crooks.  Will 
1574;  issue  by 
Mary  his  wife. 


John  Stubbing,  of  Mosses,  =j=Anne,  Amie,- 


held  part  of  the  Rectory  of 
Bumpsted  Helion.  Will,  Com. 
Lond.,  Essex  and  Herts, 
1577  ;  inq.  p.m.  9  Eliz.  To  be 
bur.  in  the  church. 


or  Agnes,  his 
wife ;  to  have 
Mosses,  etc., 
for  life. 


:WilliamStubbing,his  son, of  Bump¬ 
sted  Helion  1546  ;  bought  Bobulo 
1565,  and  Bumpsted  Hall  Manor 
1580.  Will,  P.C.C.  3  Harte  1693  ; 
inq.  p.m.  1  Jas.  To  be  bur.  in  the 
church. 


A 


Joan,liv-  William  Stubbing, 
ing  1524.  the  elder,  of  B.  Hel¬ 
ion.  Will, Com. Lond., 
Robert,  Essex,  &  Herts  1544 ; 
living  lands  in  Haverhill  & 
1544.  Wratting,  co.  Suff. 


Richard  Stubbing,  b. 
circa  1543,  son  and 
heir ;  aged  60in  1603. 
Had  livery  of  Bump¬ 
sted  Hall  Manor, 
1604.  Fine,  2  Jas. 


Edmund  Stubbing,  lord  of 
the  manors  of  Bumpsted 
Hall  and  Bobulo,  mar.  1585. 
Inq.  p.m.  6  Chas.,  ob.  6  Sep. 
1631.  Will,  Com.  Lond.,  Es¬ 
sex  and  Herts,  21  May  1630. 


Anne,  wife  of 
.  .  .  Allen  1603. 

Frances,  wife 
of  .  .  .  Flacke 
1603. 


Robert  Stubbing, 
exor.  to  his  fa¬ 
ther  ;  to  have 
part  of  the  Hos¬ 
pital  land  in 
Bumpsted. 


Henry  Stubbing,  to= 
whom  his  father 
gave  W eggens  in 
Bumpsted.  Will, 
P.C.C.  82  Drake, 
1596. 


Tho  mas  Stubbing,  on  whom 
his  father  settled,  13  Sept. 
1624,  Pryors  Field  and  Sybs- 
ley. 


=Elizabeth, 
his  widow, 
rem.  Wm. 
Crowe,  of 
Bumpsted 
Helion. 


William, appar¬ 
ently  only  son, 
to  whom  his 
father  left  his 
Suffolk  lands. 


Henry  Stubbing,  to 
whom  his  father 
gave  messuages  in 
Bumpsted  Helion. 


Mary,  wife  of  Bartholomew 
Partridge,  of  Widdington, 
co.  Essex,  who  entered  ped. 
in  the  Essex  Yisitn.  of  1634. 


r~ 


Margaret,  William  Stubbing,  the  younger,  of 
named  in  Bumpsted  Helion,  aged  7  in  1603. 
her  fa-  Stubbin  c.  Stubbin,  Mitford  6,161. 
ther’swill.  Moiety  of  West  Wickham  M.  Camb. 


William  Stubbing,  son  and=rMary,  dau.  of  Edmund  Stubbing.  Joan, =pJoan, his  widow. 


heir,  lord  of  the  manor  of 
Bumpsted  Hall.  Will  13 
July  1638,  Comiss.  Lond., 
Essex  and  Herts.  Inq.  p.m. 
14  Chas. 


John  Collen, 
of  Bardfield 
Magna  ;  mar. 
settlement  11 
Jas.  1613. 


his  widow,  held  the  man¬ 
or  of  Bobulo,  formerly  be¬ 
longing  to  JohnStubbing, 
his  brother,  in  1661. 


Will,  P.C.C.  90 
Laud,  18  July 
1661,  proved  25 
June  1662.  See 
page  347. 


Richard,  John  Stubbing,  of  Bo-— ‘Mary,  dau. 
named  bulo,  devisee  of  Wm.  of  Reynold 

1630  Stubbing,  his  brother,  Stocke,  of 

in  his  1640 ;  conveyed  Bo-  Elsenham, 

father’s  bulo  to  Edmund  Stub-  co.  Essex. 

Will.  bing,  his  brother. 


Edmund  Stubbing,  son=j= 
and  heir,  aged  9  in  1638, 
to  whom  his  father  left 
his  manor  and  lands. 


Mary.  Bridget.  Susan. 


- ! 

Sarah. 


Martha.  Anne. 


Frances. 


Edmund  Stubbing,  executor  1662  to  ...  wife  of  Johanna  Stub- 
his  mother,  who  left  him  her  manor  . .  .  Stough-  bing, under  age 
of  Bobulo  in  Bumpsted  Helion.  ton  1661.  in  1661. 


Catherine,  daughter  of  Edmund  Stubbing,  gent.,  married  William  Sharpe,  gent.,  who  was  born  in  1659,  and  died  14  Dec.  1692,  aged  33 
years.  M.I.  in  Bumpsted  Helion  chancel.  They  had  four  sons  and  five  daughters.  Cole’s  Collections,  Add.  MS.  5,806. 


STUBBING  OF  NAUGHTON. 


349 


Petugm,  Stubbing  of  l^augfjton. 


William  Stubbing,  of  Stansfield,  co.  Suffolk,  where  he  had  ancient  tene-=j=Joan,  his  wife,  already  mar 


ment  called  Lawsells.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  8  Oct.  4d  Eliz.,  proved  22  June 
1602  ;  bur.  24  March  160^. 


ried  in  1562  ;  bur.  at  Stans¬ 
field  21  June  1600. 


Edmund  Stubbing,  Rector  of  Naughton,  co.  Suffolk, ^Jane, living  1634 
1594;  bapt.  at  Stansfield,  5  Nov.  i 562.  Will,  Arch,  when  her  hus- 
Sudb.  15  Feb.  163§,  proved  18  Sept.  1638;  bur.  in  band  made  his 
Naughton  chancel.  Patron  of  Naughton,  1634.  Will. 


Richard  Stubbing, 
bapt.  at  Stansfield 
25  March  1565 ; 
living  1635. 


Ambrose  Stubbing,  of  Ash-  Agnes,  bapt. 
booking,  co.  Suff. ;  bapt.  15  at  Stansfield 
Aug.  1567  ;  living  1620.  Stub-  7  January 
bing  c.  Stubbing,  Jas.  I,  B.  A.  1570J. 


Katherine, =pSamuel  Stubbing,  some-=Hester  Jenkin,  of 


first  wife, 
buried  at 
Naughton, 
1633. 


time  curate  of  Naugh-  Great  Bricett, mar. 
ton  ;  bur.  there  1669  ;  lie.  Arch.  Sudb.  4 
mar.  Hester  Jenkin  at  Oct.  1634;  bur.  at 
Offton  1639.  Naughton  1645. 


Jonathan  Stubbing,  of 
Gosfield,  Essex,  gent., 
patron  of  Naughton ;  ob. 
s.p.  Will,  P.C.C.27  Feb. 
1661,  pbt.  7  May  1668. 


Joshua,  bapt.  1598 ; 
mar.  Sarah  Boughe 
at  Naughton,  1629. 

John,  bapt.  1596  at 
Naughton. 


- ri 

Elizabeth,  wife  of  Francis 
Cole  ;  mar.  at  Naughton  1624. 

Sarah,  mar.  at  Naughton,  1614, 
Stephen  Norton,  after  Rector 
there. 


Josiah  Stubbing,  of  Offton,  co.  Suff.,  gent.,=j 
patron  of  Naughton  ;  bapt.  there  1622.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.  16  Nov.  1686;  bur.  at  Naughton, 
14  Dec.  1686  ;  slab  in  chancel ;  of  St.  Bo- 
tolph’s,  Aldgate,  gent.,  in  1668. 

-Elizabeth  Grimwade,  of  Off-  Samuel,  Katherine,  de-  Elizabeth,  bapt.  Sarah,  youngest 

ton;  mar.  lie.  2  July  1668;  living  visee  of  her  1620  ;  devisee  da.,  wife  of  .  .  . 

died  3  Feb.  172§,  aged  79 ;  1661.  uncleJonathan  of  her  uncle  Lawrance  in 

slab  in  Naughton  chancel.  1661.  1661.  1686. 

i 

r  t  r 

Josiah  Stubbing,  of  Offton,  Edmund  Stubbing,  of  Had-  Jonathan  John  Stubbing,  of  Sulleys= 
gent.,  eld.  son.  Will,  Arch,  leigh,  gent.  ;  patron  of  Stubbing,  in  Reydon,  gent. patron  of 
Suff.  23  Aug.  1748  ;  lands  in  Naughton  ;  d.  15  Jan.  174f,  buried  at  Naughton.  Will,  P.C.C. 
Offton,  Bildeston,  and  Bri-  aged  73;  slab  in  Naughton  Naughton  25  Feb.  1757;  d.  20  June 
cett.  =j=  chancel.  1672.  1757,  set.  80.  M.I.  in 

Holton  churchyard. 

i 

i  i  i 

=Elizabeth,  da.  &  h.  of  Rich-  Elizabeth, 
ard  Partridge,  of  Holton  — 

St.  Mary,  gent,  (see  Part-  Ellen, 
ridge  ped.,  p.  169),  mar.lic. 

12  June  1714;  d.  1778,  set.  Bridget. 
86.  M.I.  at  Holton. 

1  f  1 

SamuelStubbing,  Bridget  Stubbing,  devisee  of  Alder-  Elizabeth  Stub-  Frances,  bapt.  at 

of  Offton,  died  man  Partridge,  of  Stratford,  gent.;  bing,  of  High-  Raydon  17-p) ;  bur. 

s.p.  Will,  Cur.  mar.  Rev.  John  Brownrigg  Leake,  am.  Will,  Arch,  at  Holton  1779. 

Ep.  Norw.  1784;  Rector  of  Naughton  and  Nettle-  Suff.  1771;  bur.  — 

lands  to  his  stead;  d.  1775,  rnt.  56.  M.I.  at  at  Holton  1772.  John  Stubbing,  bur. 

cousins.  Willisham.  =p  at  Holton  WJf. 

1 

i  l 

Partridge  Stubbing,  of  Ellen  Stub - 
Ipswich,  surgeon;  bapt.  at  bing  ;  bapt. 
Raydon  1725  ;  eventually  at  Raydon 
sole  h.  of  his  grand-uncle  1731 ;  bur. 
Nathaniel  Partridge,  of  at  Holton 
Holton,  gent.;  ob.s.p.  Will  1784. 
proved  at  Norwich,  1784. 

John  Brownrigg  Leake, 
of  Hadleigh,  Suffolk,  so¬ 
licitor,  only  son  ;  pre¬ 
sented  armorial  paten  to 
Hadleigh  church  (Suff. 
I.  of  A.,  ix,  207-8)  ;  d. 
1825,  aged  70.  M.I.  at 
Willisham. 


Anne,  da.  of=fJohn  Stubbing,  of=Amy,  2d  wife,  dau. —Elizabeth,  3d  wife,  dau. 


Francis  and 
Mary  Ram  ; 
died  3  Feb. 
1759,  aged 
35.  M.I.  at 
Stoke. 


Raydon,  gent.  Will, 
P.C.C.  1769  ;  lands 
in  Stansfield,  Pos- 
lingford,  Layham, 
&  Stoke  ;  ob.  1769, 
aged  48. 


of  John  Brand,  of 
Raydon,  son  of 
Joseph  Brand,  of 
Edwardston,  Esq., 
d.  1675 ;  slab  in 
Raydon  chancel. 


of  Richard  Newman,  by 
Elizth.,  his  wife,  dau.  of 
Geo.  Clarke,  Rector  of 
Raydon ;  mar.  at  Kersey 
1766  ;  d.12  Mayl825,  aged 
82.  M.I.  at  Somersham. 


Josiah  Stubbing,1 
of  Raydon  and 
Higham,  gent.  ; 
bapt.  at  Raydon 
1723  ;  living 
1808. 


:A  ntie 
Cook  ; 
mar, 
lie.  7 
May 
1749. 


A 

Pedigree  A. 


Ann  Ram  Stubbing,  m. 

1,  Rich.  Lytcott  Hicks  ; 

2,  Robert  Wilson,  of 
Trevallyn,  co.  Den- 
beigh,  Esq.  Shed.  1838 
aged  80.  Rich.  Lytcott 
Hicks,  of  St.  Nevis  in 
the  W.  Indies,  her  only 
sou,  d.  1810.  There 
are  M.I.  at  Stoke  Nay- 
land  to  her  two  daus., 
Fanny  Wilson,  who  d. 
1869  set.  74,  and  Lucy 
Wilson,  who  d.  1876, 
set.  79. 


John  Stubbing,  of— Mary,  d.  &  heir  of 
Higham,  gent.,  ob.  William  Bugg,  of 


s.p.  1816,  set.  66. 
M.I.  at  Stoke  by 
Nay  land.  Will, 
proved  P.C.C.  in 
1817. 


Ringshall,  son  of 
Francis  Bugg,  of 
Barking,  c.  1798. 
Her  Will  is  dated 
18  Aug.  1830. 


— i 

Francis  Stubbing, 
of  Mason’s  Bridge, 
Raydon,  gent.,  born 
1754-5;  died  1785, 
aged  30.  M.I.  at 
Stoke  by  Navland. 
Mar.  and  had  issue. 


Rev.  Newman  John  Stub-q=  Martha,  da.  of  James 


bing,  M.  A.,  Oxon ;  patron 
and  rector  of  Somersham 
and  vicar  of  Offton  and- 
Higham ;  b.  1767  at 
Raydon ;  d.  1835,  aged 
67.  M.I.  at  Somersham. 


Sparrow,  of  Gosfield, 
co.  Essex,  Esq.  ;  lady 
of  the  manor  of  Som¬ 
ersham  ;  b.  1768;  d. 
1861,  aged  93.  M.I. 
at  Somersham. 


Rev.  Newman  John  Stubbing, 
M.A.,  Oxon  ;  patron  and  rector 
of  Somersham,  vicar  of  Offton, 
and  lord  of  the  manor  of  Som¬ 
ersham  ;  b.  1799 ;  d.  unm.  1881. 
M.I.  at  Somersham. 


James  Stubbing,  of 
Birmingham,  solici¬ 
tor  ;  born  at  Offton, 
1800;  died  unm.  at 
Birmingham,  1880. 
M.I.  at  Somersham. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  Wil¬ 
liam  Rolfe,  M.D.,  of 
Booking,  co.  Essex, 
where  she  died,  leav¬ 
ing  two  daughters. 


Martha  Anne  Stub-: 
bing,  sister  and  co¬ 
heir  ;  died  at  East 
Bergholt,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk. 


: William  Har¬ 
dy  Travis,  of 
Hill  House, 
East  Berg¬ 
holt,  surgeon. 


William  Thomas  Travis, 
b.  1835  ;  solicitor,  Can¬ 
ada  ;  m.  Phoebe  M’ 
Knight,  his  1st  wife. 


Anne  Susan  Travis,  Fanny  Travis,  mar. 
mar.  Henry  New-  Charles  John  Newman, 
man,  of  Hadleigh,  of  the  Priory,  Kersey, 
surgeon  ;  J.P.  Suffolk. 


Ellen  Emma  Travis,  mar.  Ed¬ 
ward,  5th  son  of  Rev.  Joseph 
Hankey  Dobree,  of  Holton  St. 
Mary ;  d.  1887. 


Rev.  James  Travis,  Rector  of 
Manton,  Rutland ;  lord  and  pa¬ 
tron  of  Somersham  ;  mar.  Mar¬ 
garet  Warnes ;  d.  1899. 


350 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Stubbing  of  0augl)ton.  $Jrtngr«  91. 


Josiah  Stubbing,  of  Raydon  and  Higham,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.;  bapt.  at  Raydon,  1723  ;TAnne  Cook;  marriage 


living  1808;  son  of  Jonn  Stubbing  and  Elizabeth  Partridge,  his  wife. 


license  7  May  1749. 


Elizabeth,  da.  of  .  .  .  Weeding,  of=j=Josiah  Stubbing,  of  Sulleys,  in  Raydon,  eldest-pAnne,  dau.  of  George 


Layham,co.  Suffolk,  1st  wife;  died 
1786,  aged  25.  M.I.  at  Raydon. 


Anne,  mar. 
Thomas 
Clements  ; 
dead  1907. 


Elizabeth  Weeding 
Stubbing,  died  in 
infancy  23  March 
1782.  M.I. 


son  ;  born  1748-9  ;  died  1817,  aged  68. 
Raydon. 


M.I.  at 


Fenn,  of  Hadleigh,  co. 
Suff. ;  2d  wife. 


Maria  Anne  Stubbing, 
d.  1790,  aged  31.  M.I. 
at  Raydon. 


Josiah  Stub¬ 
bing  ;  went 
to  Australia. 


i — 


Hub¬ 

bard. 


A 


Partridge  Stubbing,  2d 
son,  of  Beaumont  cum 
Maze,  co.  Essex  ;  had 
three  daughters. 


Ellen  Stubbing^ 
born  1785-6,  ob. 
1859 ;  2d  wife. 


:John  Desborough  Walford,  of  Booking  and  Ipswich,  son  of  Rev. 
William  Walford,  of  Boreham  House  and  Hatfield  Place ;  born 

1790. 


A 


John  Stubbing,  3d  son,  of=j=Ellen 


" ~\ 
Maria, 


Harriet  Louisa,  1st  wife,  4th  da.  of  John  Part-=pRobert  Stubbing,  of  Sul-  -Elizabeth  Dur- 


ridge,  of  Shelley  Dairy,  eldest  son  of  Arthur 
Partridge,  of  Shelley  Hall ;  bap.  1797,  died 
1842.  M.I.  at  Shelley. 


leys,  in  Raydon ;  born 
1790;  died  3  June  1862, 
aged 71.  M.I .  at  Shelley. 


ham, died  1886, 
aged  80.  M.I. 
at  Shelley. 


Flamboro’  Head ;  Com¬ 
mander  R.N. ;  died  at  Ips¬ 
wich  1870. 

Skitter.  died  at 
Raydon. 

r  ~r 

Robert  Stub-  John  Stub¬ 
bing,  of  Mer-  bing,  now  of 
ton,  Middx.  Sydney,  in 

Australia. 

t-  u 

Frederick  Stub¬ 
bing,  died  s.p. 

r  \  \ 

Charles  Stub-  Emma,  Ellen,  mar.  Robert 
bing,  died  at  died  Skitter,  and  lives  in 

Hastings  unmar.  Sydney,  Australia. 

Ellen,  mar.  Frederick  Nunn  : 
Whatfield,  co.  Suffolk. 


had  a  dau.  Edith ;  all  buried  at 


Amelia,  mar.  Charles  Grimwood  Nunn,  of  Barrard’s  Hall,  Whatfield  ; 
both  living  1907. 


iPrtrigrer,  •Stubbing  of  Cotoltng. 


.  .  .  Stubbing,  probably  descended  from  William  Stubbing,  of  Bumpsted  Helion,  who  devised  (P.C.C. 
2  Dogett)  lands  and  messuages  called  Mosses  and  Sages  in  that  parish,  28  April  1491 . 


William  Stubbing, 
of  Cowling,  in  Suf¬ 
folk  1562.  Stub¬ 
bing  c.  Wentworth, 
Chan.  Proceeding  a. 
Series  II,  169,  50. 


~r 


John  Stubbing,  the 
younger,  is  named 
as  supervisor,  1557, 
in  his  brother’s 
Will,  Com.  Lond., 
Essex  and  Herts. 


John  Stubbing,  of  Mosses,  held1 
part  of  the  Rectory  of  Bump¬ 
sted  Helion  and  lands  called 
Sages.  Inq.  p.m.  7  Eliz.  Will, 
9th  June  1557  ;  to  be  buried  in 
the  church;  died  1565. 


Anne  orAgnes,- 
his  wife, remar. 
Wm.  Stubbing, 
of  Bumpsted 
Helion  ;  called 
Amy  1557. 


:William  Stubbing,  purchased- 
Bobulo,  1565,  &  Bumpsted  Hall 
Manor,  1580.  In  hisWill,  P.C.C. 
3  Harte  1603,  he  mentions  his 
stepsons  William,  John  &  Giles 
Stubbing  of  Mosses. 


.  .  .  .  1st  wife, 
married  circa 
1542.  See  ped. 
of  Stubbing 
of  Bumpsted 
Helion. 


John  Stubbing,  son  and 
heir,  under  age  in  1565 ; 
ob.  s.p.  Inq.  p.m.  9th 
Elizth.  1566,  when  Mos¬ 
ses  and  Sages  passed  to 
his  brother. 


Giles  Stubbing,  2d  son, 
heir  to  his  brother 
1566,  and  then  aged 
20;  was  of  Mosses  in 
Helion  Bumpsted  in 
1603.  =f= 


Thomas  Stubbing,  of  Cowling, 
co.  Suffolk.  Will,  P.C.C.  8  Dixy, 
1593  ;  ob.  s.p.  Lands  in  Bump¬ 
sted  and  in  Castle  Camps,  co. 
Cambr.,  which  he  bought  35 
Eliz.  Close  Roll. 


Agnes,  called  Amy, 
1567,  wife  of  .  .  . 
Oddy  ;  .  .  .  Revel  1 
her  1st  husband. 
Had  issue. 


William  Stubbing, = 
of  the  Ivytode  in 
Bumpstede,  1603. 
Will,  Arch.  Colch. 
1609;  exor.  to  Tho. 
Stubbing,  his  bro¬ 
ther,  1593. 


- 1 

Richard 
Stubbing, 
named  in 
his  fath¬ 
er’s  Will 
1557. 


Robert  Stubbing,  of  Bumpsted 
Helion,  bought  lands  in  Castle 
Campes  of  Thomas  Stubbing, 
his  uncle.  Close  Roll,  35 Eliz.  SO. 


Richard  Stubbing,  bought 
lands  of  Thomas  Stubbing, 
his  uncle,  35  Eliz.  Close 
Roll  1593. 


Bridget  and  Mar¬ 
garet,1  devisees  of 
Thomas  Stubbing 
their  uncle. 


Edmund  Stub¬ 
bing,  devisee 
of  his  father. 


John  and  Lewis  and 
Jeremy,  Thomas, 
living  in  living  in 
1609.  1609. 


Mary  &  Mar¬ 
tha,  devisees 
of  their  fa¬ 
ther. 


1  It  was  this  Margaret,  in  all  probability,  who,  as  widow  of  John 
30  Goare)  which  tells  us  so  much  of  the  Cambridge  Stubbings  of  1636. 


Taylor,  made  the  very  genealogical  Will  (P.C.C. 


STUBBING  OK  NAUGHTON. 


351 


&oyal  Qrsrent— liisiby,  .^parroto,  Stubbing;. 

Edward  the  First,  King  of  England.=j=Eleanor,  1st  wife,  dan.  of  Ferdinand  III,  King  of  Castile. 


The  Princess  Joan  of  Acre,  2d  wife,  died  1305-^Gilbert  de  Clare,  Earl  of  Gloucester,  died  1305. 

! 


Eleanor  de  Clare,  dau.  and  coheir,  married  1306.  =j=  Hugh  le  Despencer,  Earl  of  Gloucester,  executed  1326. 


Philip  le  Despencer,  4th  son. ^Margaret,  dau.  and  heir  of  Ralph  Goushill,  Lord  of  Camoys  Manor  in  Essex. 


Philip  le  Despencer,  Lord  of  Camoys  Manor  in  Essex ;  died  1350.y=Joan  Strange. 


Philip  le  Despencer,  summoned  to  Parliament  1387 — 1400.=j=Margaret  Cobham. 


Sir  Philip  Spencer,  of  Nettlestead,  co.  Suffolk,  jure  uxoris,  d.  1423.=pElizabeth,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Sir  Robert  Tibetoft,  of  Nettlestead. 


Margaret  Spencer,  sole  dau.  and  heiress,  widow  of  Lord  Roos,  who  died  s.p.=fSir  Roger  Wentworth,  of  Nettlestead,  jure  uxoris. 


Henry  Wentworth,  of  Codham,  co.  Essex,  2d  son. ^Elizabeth,  1st  wife,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Henry  Howard. 


Margery  Wentworth,  sister  to  Sir  Roger,  f  Sir  William  Waldegrave,  of  Smallbridge  in  Suffolk,  who  d.  1521. 


George  Waldegrave,  of  Smallbridge. =j=  Anne,  dau.  of  Sir  Robert  Drury,  of  Hawstead  ;  she  remar.  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn. 


Anne  Waldegrave,  widow  of  Henry  Bures  (Will  1582).=j=Sir  Clement  Heigbam,  of  Barrow.  Will,  P.C.C.  1570. 


Sir  John  Heigham,  of  Barrow,  married  I562.=f-Anne,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Edward  Wright,  of  Bradfield.  Suffolk. 

I 


Bridget  Heigham,  married  at  Barrow  1 592. =r William  Risby,  of  Thorpe  Morieux,  co.  Suffolk.  Will,  P.C.C.  1625. 


John  Risby,  of  Thorpe  Morieux,  married  I638.=rMargaret,  dau.  of  Sir  Thomas  Jermy,  of  Brightwell. 


John  Risby,  of  Thorpe  Morieux.  Will,  P.C.C.  1687. ^Elizabeth,  dau.  and  heir  of  Francis  Cornwallis  ;  she  d.  1705. 

I 

I - 1 

Heigham  Risby,  of  Thorpe  Morieux  ;  died  1740,  aged  64. =f  Elizabeth,  his  wife. 


Jane  Risby,  dau.  and  coheir.=j=Robert  Sparrow,  of  Offton,  in  co.  Suffolk. 


Jane  Sparrow,  only  dau.  and  heir;  mar.  1720.=pJohn  Sparrow,  of  Halsted,  co.  Essex;  born  1697. 


James  Sparrow,  of  Gosfield,  co.  Essex  ;  died  1777,  aged  52.  p Margaret,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Thos.  Bernard,  Rector  of  Little  Bardfield. 


Martha  Sparrow,  lady  of  the  Manor  of  Somersham.=rNewman  John  Stubbing,  Rector  of  Somersham  ;  died  1835. 


Newman  John  Stubbing. 


James  Stubbing. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  Wm.  Rolfe. 


Martha  Anne,  mar.  Wm.  H.  Travis 


r - : - i - 1 - i 

Wm.  Thomas  Travis.  Anne,  m.  Henry  Newman.  Fanny,  m.  Chas.  Newman.  Ellen,  m.  Edw.  Dobree.  Rev.  James  Travis. 


(follett  of  ®Hrsferftflti. 


(Brant  of  Arms,  1(304. 

To  All  and  Singular  unto  whom  these  presents  shall  come,  I  Sr  Edward  Bysshe,  Knight, 
Clarenceux,  Principall  Herald  and  King  of  Armes  of  all  the  South,  East  and  West  parts  of  this 
Realme  of  England  from  the  River  of  Trent  Southward,  Send  Greeting.  Whereas  Anthony  Collett, 
Sonne  of  Anthony  Collett  late  of  Westerfield  in  the  County  of  Suff’olke  Gentleman,  deceased,  and 
Samuell  Collett,  Sonne  of  Philologus  Collett,  second  Brother  of  the  last  named  Anthony  late  of 
Westerfield,  also  deceased,  Have  desired  mee  to  Assigne  unto  them  such  Armes  and  Creast  as 
they  may  lawfully  beare ;  Know  yee  therefore  that  I  have  thought  fitt  to  Assigne  unto  them 
and  either  of  them  the  Armes  hereafter  mentioned,  viz.  : — Sable,  on  a  Chevron  ingrailed  betweene 
three  Hinds  trippant  Argent,  as  many  Annuletts  of  the  first.  And  for  a  Creast,  on  a  Helmet 
and  Wreath  of  their  Colours,  a  Hind’s  Head  coupe  Argent,  with  a  Coller  ingrailed  Sable, 
mantled  Gules,  doubled  Argent,  As  in  the  margent  more  lively  is  depicted.  Which  Armes  and 
Creast  as  before  expressed  I  the  said  Clarenceux,  by  Power  and  Authority  of  my  office  to  me 
granted  by  my  Letters  Patents  under  the  Great  Seals  of  England,  Hoe  by  these  Presents  Assigne 
Give  and  Grant  unto  the  said  Anthony  Collett  and  Samuel  Collett,  and  unto  either  of  them  and 
unto  the  Heirs  of  the  body  of  them  and  either  of  them  lawfully  begotten,  To  be  by  them  and 
every  of  them  borne  with  their  due  Differences,  according  to  the  Lawes  of  Armes  for  ever.  In 
Witness  whereof  I  have  hereunto  affixed  the  Seale  of  my  Office  and  subscribed  my  Name. 
Dated  this  fourteenth  day  of  August  in  the  sixteenth  yeare  of  the  reign  of  our  Sovraigne  Lord 
Charles  the  Second,  by  the  Grace  of  God  of  England,  Scotland,  France  and  Ireland,  King, 
Defender  of  the  Faith,  Ac.  :  And  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lord  One  Thousand  Six  Hundred  and 
Sixty  Eower. 

Edward  Bysshe,  Clarenceux,  King  of  Armes. 


Mill  of  |obn  latmron.  1596. 

I  John  Dameron  of  Westerfield  in  the  County  of  Suffolke,  gent.,  make  this  my  last  will, 
the  second  day  of  February  1596.  My  bodie  to  be  buried  in  the  parish  church.  Unto  Margaret 
my  wife  my  messuages  and  landes  and  my  Manor  of  Westerfield :  she  to  bring  up  my  daughter’s 
children,  Anthony  Collett,  Philologus,  John,  Dameron,  Martha,  Abigail  and  Edny  Collett,  and  to 
find  Joane  Collett,  my  daughter,  sufficient  meat,  drink,  clothes  and  lodging.  After  my  wife’s 
decease  I  bequeath  the  manor  to  the  said  Anthony  Collett,  at  his  age  of  one  and  twentie 


COLLETT  OF  WESTERFIELD. 


353 


yeares,  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  bodjr.  Failing  these,  remainder  to  Philologus  Collett,  his  brother. 
Dameron  Collett  and  Martha  Collett,  sisters  of  the  said  Anthony.  Unto  John  Collett,  my  sonne 
in  lawe,  and  Joan  my  daughter,  his  wife,  my  messuage  called  Kelinge  in  Westerfield  and 
Witnesham  for  the  terme  of  their  lives,  and  after  their  decease  to  Philologus  Collett  their  sonne, 
at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  Tenement  called  Upgates  with  lands  in  Westerfield, 
Thurleston  and  Akenham  to  John  Collett,  my  grandson.  To  Anne  Medowe  and  .Mary  Man,  my 
sisters.  To  John  Medowe,  the  sonne  of  Robert  Medowe,  my  brother  in  lawe.  To  Frances  Man, 
daughter  of  Robert  Man.  To  John  Littlebury  and  to  Mary  Littlebury,  daughter  of  Michael 
Littlebury,  and  Thomas  Littlebury,  sonne  of  the  said  Michael.  To  Agnes  and  Grace  Medowe, 
daughters  of  Robert  Medowe,  and  Thomas  and  Robert  Medowe,  his  sonnes.  To  Edward  Man, 
sonne  of  Robert  Man  and  Margaret  Man,  daughter  of  the  said  Robert.  To  William  Man, 
sonne  of  Robert  Man.  Unto  Edmond  Dameron,  my  godson,  at  his  age  of  twenty  one  yeares. 
To  Margaret  and  Sibill  Dameron,  daughters  of  Edmond  Dameron,  and  John  Dameron  their 
brother.  Unto  Mary  Medowe,  daughter  of  Robert  Medowe.  I  ordeyne  my  executors  Mr 
Anthony  Felton  of  Playford,  Esqre,  Mr  John  Morgan  of  Ipswich,  Mr  William  Collett  of  Wether- 
ingsett,  and  my  sonne  in  law  John  Collett. 

Archdeaconry  of  Suffolk,  Will  Book  1596-7,  fo.  325. 


Will  of  Jloljn  Collett,  1599. 

The  ffourthe  day  of  Marche,  1599,  in  the  ffortith  two  veare  of  the  Raigne  of  our 
Soveraigne  Ladie  Elizabeth,  I  John  Collett  of  Westerfield  in  the  countie  of  Suff.,  gent.,  make 
and  ordaine  this  my  last  will.  I  comend  my  soule  to  Allmightie  good  and  my  bodie  to  be 
buried  in  the  church  of  Westerfeild.  I  have  greate  care  for  the  payment  of  my  debtes.  My 
executrix  shall  presently  after  my  decease  make  sale  of  all  my  corne,  cattell  and  hay,  and  pay 
[them]  with  the  money  thereof  comyng.  And  my  will  is  that  the  surplusage  shall  remayne  to 
Dameron  Collett  my  daughter.  I  further  geue  [her]  my  coppy  hould  landes  and  tenementes  in 
Little  Claston  and  Much  Claston  in  Essex,  vppon  condition  shee  shall  pay  ffortie  shillinges 
yeerly  to  Edithe  Collett  my  daughter.  In  default  of  payment  the  said  Edithe  shall  have  the 
said  landes  during  her  naturall  life.  To  John  Collett,  my  sonne,  and  his  heires  my  free  land 
lying  in  Westerfeild,  Whitton,  Thurlston  and  Witnesham,  called  Upgates.  To  Dameron  Collett, 
my  said  daughter,  and  to  her  heires,  one  peece  of  ffree  land  lying  nere  Christopher  Ashe  in 
Sainte  Margaretts  parishe  in  Ypswiche.  To  Edith  Collett,  my  daughter,  my  tytle  and  interest 
which  I  haue  in  the  house  which  I  boughte  of  Wilim  Peacocke  and  his  wife,  which  was  given 
to  them  by  John  Dameron,  my  ffather  in  lawe,  during  the  lives  of  the  longer  liver  of  them 
both.  All  the  rest  of  my  goodes  vnbequeathed  shalbe  sould,  and  the  same  to  be  equally  devided 
among  my  children.  I  do  ordaine  the  said  Dameron  Collet,  my  daughter,  my  sole  Executrix. 
I  earnestly  intreate  John  Lany,  esquier,  and  Frauncis  Lucas,  gent.,  to  be  the  overseers  of  this 
will.  And  I  geue  to  the  said  John  Lany  for  his  paynes  fforty  shillinges.  In  the  presence  of 
vs,  Frauncis  Lucas,  Thomas  Burroughe,  John  Collett.  Probatum  fuit  qqinto  die  Junii,  1600, 
Juramento  magistri  Johannis  Burroughe,  notarii  publici,  procuratoris  Damerone  Collett,  filie  et 
executncis.  P.C.C.  46  Wallop. 

2  v 


354 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  fHjtlologits  Colktt,  1646. 

Philologus  Collett  of  Westerfield,  Gent.,  7th  Novr  1646.  To  my  son  Samuel  Collett  and 
his  heirs  my  messuage  called  Reelings  in  Westerfield,  with  remainder  to  my  sonne  John  Collett, 
except  a  little  tenement  called  Mainards  lately  purchased  of  Lionel  Edgar,  the  elder,  Gent.,  and 
his  sonne  Thomas  Edgar,  Esqr.  Also  lands  in  Rushmere  purchased  of  Leonard  Tilliot,  except 
copyhold  lands  held  of  the  Manor  of  Rushmere  Hall  purchased  of  Anthony  Collett  of  Wester¬ 
field,  Gent.  To  John  and  Philologus  Collett,  my  sonnes,  all  my  lands,  &c.,  in  Westerfield, 
Foxhall  or  Thurleston,  purchased  in  their  names,  with  land  lately  Sir  William  Withypoles.  To 
Philologus  Collett,  my  sonne,  house  in  Westerfield,  and  lands  in  Westerfield  and  Ipswich  pur¬ 
chased  of  Leonard  Tilliot.  To  Henry  Collett,  my  sonne,  copy  lands  in  Rushmere  purchased  of 
Anthony  Collett  of  Westerfield,  Gent.  To  Benjamin  Collett,  my  sonne,  my  copyhold  tenement 
purchased  of  Lionel  Edgar  the  elder,  Gent.  All  my  personal  estate  to  my  three  daughters, 
Bridget,  Dorcas  and  Martha  Collett :  but  if  it  exceed  two  hundred  pounds  apeece,  the  overplus 
to  be  divided  between  my  sonnes  Benjamin  and  Henry  Collett.  I  appoint  my  brothers  in 
law,  Myles  Edgar  of  Eaye  and  Samuel  Jellow  of  Bury  St  Edmund’s,  John  Collett,  my 
brother,  of  Tuddenham,  and  my  nephew  Anthony  Collett,  of  Westerfield,  to  be  my  executors. 
Witnesses,  John  Collett  and  Anthony  Collett. 

Administration  of  the  goods  of  deceased  to  Bridget  Collett  and  Dorcas  Spinny,  wife  of 
Henry  Spinny,  daughters  of  the  testator.  Also  probate  of  his  will  7th  March  1646. 

Archdeaconry  of  Suffolk. 


Mill  of  UriDgett  Colkti,  1662* 

The  three  and  twentieth  day  of  September,  1662,  and  in  the  14th  yeare  of  the  raigne  of 
our  soverayne  Lord  Charles  the  second,  I  Bridgett  Collett  of  the  parrish  of  St.  Saviour  in 
Southwarke,  spinster,  do  make  this  my  present  Testament.  My  body  I  committ  to  the  earth 
from  whence  it  came,  to  be  in  decent  and  Christian  like  manner  buried  within  the  said  Church 
of  Saint  Saviour ;  the  somme  of  tenne  poundes  to  be  laid  out  about  my  funerall  and  the  entertain¬ 
ment  of  such  friends  as  shall  accompanie  my  corps  to  the  grave.  All  my  messuage,  lands  and 
premisses  in  Cloyden  (Claydon)  in  the  County  of  Suffolke  I  doe  giue  vnto  the  Wardens  of  the 
Church  of  Westerfield  and  their  successors  for  evermore ;  vpon  speciall  trust  that  they  will 
carefully  collect,  lay  out  and  imploy,  the  cleare  yerely  rents  and  proffitts  arising  [therefrom]  for 
the  teaching  and  keeping  to  schoole  only  of  poore  children  born  in  the  said  parrish,  where  most 
need  requires.  Provided  alwaies  that  said  Wardens  giue  a  true  accompte  in  writing,  vnto  the 
succeeding  wardens  and  vestrymen,  of  the  disbursements  by  them  made.  In  default  thereof  the 
device  to  them  shall  cease  and  be  vtterly  voyd.  I  bequeath  vnto  my  brother  John  Collett 

fourteene  poundes,  pcell  of  my  propper  moneys  and  estate  now  remaining  in  the  hands  of  my 

brother  Samuell  Collett.  Vnto  the  poore  people  within  the  parrish  of  St.  Saviour  in  Southwarke 
the  somme  of  five  poundes,  to  be  distributed  amongst  [them]  by  my  brother  John  Collett  before 

named,  as  he  shall  deeme  meete.  Vnto  my  sister  Darkis  Spenney  all  my  wearing  apparell 

(except  my  silver  lac’d  cloth  wastcote,  which  I  bequeath  vnto  my  cosen  Elizabeth  Collett  the 


COLLETT  OF  WESTKRFIELD. 


355 


daughter  of  Anthony  Collett  of  Westerfield.  Ynto  my  cousin  Mary,  the  daughter  of  ...  . 

Sugar,  deceased,  and  now  marryed,  twenty  shillings.  Vnto  my  brother  Henry  Collett  the  somme 
of  seaven  pounds.  Vnto  my  brother  Samuell  Collett  the  rest  and  residue  of  all  my  ready 
money  and  personall  estate ;  and  I  doe  make  him  sole  and  only  executor  of  this  my  will.  Sealed 
and  deliuered  after  the  said  Bridgett  Collett  did  giue  vnto  her  cousin,  Mary  Atkins,  her  redd 
sarge  petticote  and  a  piece  of  silk  mohaire,  in  the  presence  of  Richard  Blondell,  &c. 

Probatum  nono  die  Julij  1663  juramento  Samuelis  Collett  fratris  dicti  defuncti. 

P.C.C.  90  Juxor. 


Mill  of  Militant  JFos,  1676. 

William  Fox  of  Hollesly,  in  the  County  of  Suffolke,  gent.,  27lh  Septr  1676.  Vnto  Mary, 
my  daughter,  my  messuage  in  Bromswell  with  all  the  lands  belonging,  in  Bromswell,  Melton 
and  Ufford,  for  her  life,  and  after  her  decease  vnto  my  grandchild  Mary  Goodwin.  Vnto  the 
aforesaid  Mary,  my  daughter,  messuage  and  lands  in  Playford  for  life,  and  after  her  decease- 
vnto  my  grandchild,  Temperance  Goodwin,  another  daughter  of  the  said  Mary.  Vnto  the  said 
Mary,  my  daughter,  eight  hundred  pounds,  to  be  paid  her  at  her  house  in  Charsfield,  to- 
purchase  estate.  Vnto  Elizabeth,  my  daughter,  now  the  wife  of  Samuell  Collett  of  Westerfield, 
gent.,  and  the  heirs  of  her  body,  messuages  and  lands  in  Great  Bealings,  Little  Bealings  andi 
Capell  ;  and  the  terme  that  I  have  of  messuages  in  Tattiston,  which  I  had  of  Mr  Richard 
Rose  in  mortgage ;  and  the  sume  of  foure  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  Martha,  my  daughter,  now 

the  wife  of  Cornelius  Collett,  and  to  the  heires  of  her  body  my  lands  in  Eike,  and  those  in 

Hollesly  purchased  of  Bartholomew  Bolton,  and  my  messuage  known  by  the  name  of  the  signe 
of  the  Dogg,  with  all  the  tenements,  meadowes,  pastures  and  feedings  in  Grundisburgh.  And  I 
doe  further  give  vnto  the  said  Martha  the  sume  of  four  hundred  poundes,  to  purchase  an  estate 
for  her  and  the  heires  of  her  body.  I  have  formerly  settled  one  part  of  my  messuages,  marshes 
and  lands  in  Oreford  vpon  my  daughter  Mary.  I  doe  hereby  devise  vnto  Elizabeth  and  Martha, 
my  two  daughters,  the  other  two  parts  of  said  messuages,  &c.,  in  Oreford,  and  to  the  heires  of 
their  bodyes.  Vnto  Catherine,  my  wife,  my  household  stuffe  formerly  hers  before  her  inter¬ 
marriage,  which  are  in  Holleslie  and  Badingham,  she  to  release  her  title  of  dower  or  thirds  out 
of  my  lands  and  tenements ;  otherwise  I  doe  give  said  household  stuffe  vnto  my  sonne  in  law,. 
Samvell  Collet,  and  his  executors.  Vnto  William  March  and  Anne  March,  my  wife’s  children, 
tenn  pounds  a  peice,  they  not  to  challenge  my  executors  or  claim  dues  of  them.  I  give  vnto- 

my  said  daughter,  Mary  Goodwin,  widdowe,  one  sixteenth  part  of  the  Sampson  of  Woodbridge 

Pincke,  and  to  my  grandchild  Robert  Goodwin  one  two  and  thirtieth  part  of  the  said  Sampson 
Pinke,  and  one  two  and  thirtieth  part  to  Samuell  Collett  my  grandchild  Vnto  Elizabeth 
Collett,  my  daughter,  one  two  and  thirtieth  part  of  the  ship  whereof  Nicholas  Redgrave  of 
Woodbridge  goeth  master,  and  one  two  and  thirtieth  part  to  my  daughter  Martha  Collett.  My 
kinswoman,  the  wife  of  John  Wilson  of  Woodbridge.  My  cozen,  the  wife  of  Edmund  Grimwood 
of  Holleslie.  Son  in  law,  Samuell  Collett,  and  William  Hamond  of  U fiord  to  be  executors. 
Brother  in  law,  Mr  Robert  Yorke,  and  Mr  Philip  Clarke  of  Woodbridge  to  be  supravisors. 
Rest  of  my  goods  to  purchase  estate  for  my  three  daughters.  Probatum  quinto  die  Novembris,, 
1679.  P.C.C.  141  King. 

2  v2 


356 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mary  Fox,  the  daughter  and  coheir  of  the  testator,  was  married  to  Robert  Goodwin  of 
Hollesley,  who  entered  his  pedigree  in  the  Suffolk  Yisitation  of  1664.  Her  second  husband  was 
Robert  Sterling  of  Charsfield.  Temperance  Goodwin,  her  daughter,  became  the  wife  of  Richard 
Wei  ton,  D.D.,  Rector  of  Whitechapel.  See  pedigree  of  Goodwin  of  Martlesham,  Suffolk  Manorial 
Families,  vol.  i,  214. 


Will  of  Antljomi  ttolktt,  1677* 

This  eleventh  day  of  February,  1677,  I  Anthony  Collett,  of  Westerfield,  Gent:  doe  make 
this  my  Last  Will  and  Testament.  I  bequeath  my  soule  to  Almighty  God,  hoping  for  his  mercy. 
I  give  unto  my  eldest  and  only  sonne,  Cornelius  Collett,  of  Hosley,  all  my  estate,  and  lands 
on  the  north  side  of  Westerfield  Greene,  together  with  all  my  wood  and  timber  on  the  said 
ground.  To  my  five  daughters,  Elizabeth,  Anne,  Mary,  Rebekah  and  Candace,  all  the  rest  of 
my  lands  and  tenements  in  Westerfield,  Rushmere,  Ipswich,  Bramford,  Layson,  Buxall,  Norwich 
and  Whitton,  to  be  equally  divided  between  them  To  my  wife,  Elizabeth  Collett,  all  my 
personal  estate,  enjoyning  her  to  pay  my  debts  and  to  take  care  of  my  decent  buriall.  I  doe 
nominate  and  appoynt  [her]  and  my  sayd  sonne  Cornelius  to  be  joynt  executors. 

Proved  7tl*  May,  1678,  by  the  widow;  power  being  reserved  to  the  other  executor. 

Consistorial  Court  of  Norwich.  Original  Wills,  1678,  No.  14. 

The  seal  is  imperfect,  but  it  is  armorial.  There  is  a  chevron  engrailed  charged  with 
three  annulets,  and  in  base  a  (lion  1)  passant.  In  her  will  dated  7th  February,  1681,  and  proved 
at  Ipswich  21st  Octr  1682,  Elizabeth  Dowsing,  the  testator’s  widow,  devised  her  estate  to  her 
six  children,  Cornelius  Collett,  of  Westerfield,  gent.  ;  Elizabeth  Everitt,  of  Worlingfield,  [sic] 
widow;  Ann,  wife  of  John  Langley,  of  Ipswich;  Mary,  wife  of  Thomas  Browninge,  of  Copdock ; 
Rebeccah,  wife  of  John  Rivett,  of  Bramford;  and  Cadish,  wife  of  John  Hasell,  of  Akenham ; 
nominating  her  son  Cornelius  and  her  daughter  Elizabeth  Everitt,  executors.  She  had  remarried 
Bence  Dowsing,  of  Alderton,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  who  had  predeceased  her  by  a  few  months. 


Mill  of  Ji>anuul  Colktt,  1681. 

I,  Samuel  Collett  of  Westerfield  in  the  Countie  of  Suffi,  gent.,  the  one  and  twentieth 
■day  of  Aprill  1681,  doe  make  this  my  last  will.  I  commend  my  soul  into  the  hands  of  Almightie 
God  ;  my  bodie  I  committ  to  the  earth  ;  my  worldly  estate  I  dispose  as  followeth.  To  my  loving 
wife,  Elizabeth,  the  lands  I  bought  of  my  brother  John  Collet ;  the  peece  of  ground  called  Ditch- 
peece ;  and  the  ffreehold  I  purchased  of  John  Ward,  for  terme  of  her  life,  to  make  her  jointure 
full  ffourscore  pounds  a  yeare.  And  my  trust  in  [her]  is  that  sliee  will  performe  her  promise 
to  mee  in  settling  vpon  each  of  my  daughters,  Elizabeth  and  Mary,  lands  and  tenemts  of  the 
yearelie  value  of  thirtie  poundes,  to  augment  their  portions.  My  will  is  that  the  timber  which 
stands  vpon  the  wood  I  bought  of  my  brother  Cornelius,  shall  not  be  cut  downe  vntill  my  sonne 
Samuell  shall  attaine  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  The  rents  of  all  my  reall  estate  not  in 
jointure  to  my  wife  shall  be  disposed  by  [her]  towards  the  maintenance  and  education  of  my 
said  sonn  and  daughters,  vntill  hee  shall  attaine  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  years.  My  daughters’ 
portions  I  will  shall  be  to  each  ffive  hundred  pounds,  beside  the  provision  my  wife  designed  them. 


COLLETT  OF  WESTERFIELD. 


357 


My  ffather  in  law  Willm  Foxe  gent,  bequeathed  to  my  wife  ffoure  hundred  poundes,  shee  having 
a  plentifull  estate  of  her  owne  beside  her  jointure  and  what  I  haue  devised  to  her.  My  personall 
estate  will  amount  to  more  than  a  thousand  pounds.  My  wife  shall  lay  [this]  out  in  the  purchase 
of  lands  to  be  settled  vpon  my  sonn  and  his  heires.  In  case  my  sonn  Samuell  dye  vnder  age 
without  issue  of  his  bodie,  then  I  devise  the  messuage  and  lands  settled  in  jointure  to  my  wife 

to  the  eldest  sonn  of  my  brother  John  Collet  and  his  heires.  And  in  like  manner  my  mesuage 

and  lands  called  Manyers  in  Westerfield  and  the  townes  adjoining,  vnto  the  eldest  sonn  of  my 
brother  Henry  Collett  and  his  heires.  I  haue  thirtie  ffiue  pounds  of  rent  reced  of  lands  devised 
to  the  parish  of  Westerfield  by  my  sister  Bridget  Collet.  My  executors  shall  make  due  payment 
of  the  same  according  to  her  bequests.  I  doe  nominate  my  loving  wife  Elizabeth  sole  executrix, 
and  appoint  my  ffriends  Mr.  William  Hammond  and  Thomas  Brooke  supervisours,  to  be  aiding 
and  assisting  [her].  My  wife  being  sickly  and  infirme,  in  case  [she]  depart  this  life  before  she 
shall  haue  performed  this  will,  I  appoint  said  William  Hammond  and  Thomas  Brooke  my  executors 
to  execute  all  things  not  performed  by  [her]  in  her  life  tyme.  In  such  case  I  nominate  my 

ffriends  Peyton  Ventres,  Esqr.,  and  Mr.  Philipp  Clarke,  Supervisors  hereof,  and  give  [them]  tenn 

pounds  a  peece. 

Probatum  vicesimo  primo  die  Novembr,  1681,  juramento  Elizabeths  Collet  relicts  et  executricis. 

P.C.C.  161  North. 


^ministration  of  Contains  Collett,  16SS. 

Tertio  die  Junij,  1688,  emanavit  commissio  Elizabeths  Collett,  vidus  Cornelii  Collett  nuper 
de  Westerfield  in  Comitatu  Suffolcis  geh  defuncti,  ad  administrandum  bona,  jura  et  credita  dicti 
defuncti.  Administration  Act  Book,  1688,  P.C.C 


5® ill  of  Smmnd  Collett,  1710. 

Samuel  Collett  the  Elder,  of  Westerfield,  co.  Suffolk,  Gent.  Unto  Hannah  my  dear 
wife  my  ffarm  in  Rushmere  for  her  naturall  life.  After  her  decease  I  give  the  same  unto 
William  Collett,  my  second  son,  at  his  age  of  ffour  and  twenty  years.  Unto  Samuel 
Collett,  my  eldest  son,  my  capital  messuage  wherein  I  now  dwell,  with  the  lands  belonging, 
at  his  age  of  ffour  and  twenty  years.  In  the  meane  time  the  rents  of  said  estates 
shall  be  taken  by  my  trustees,  and  the  money  that  shall  arise  thereby  shall  be  for  the 
bringing  up  of  my  children.  I  give  to  my  wife  Hannah  and  my  kinsman  Thomas  Redgrave, 
and  their  heirs,  all  other  my  reall  estates  in  Westerfield,  Ipswich,  Great  and  Little  Bealings, 
Capell  and  Playford,  in  trust  to  pay  Legacies  and  Debts.  I  give  unto  William  Collett,  my 
second  son,  £300  when  twenty  four.  Unto  my  sons  William,  John,  Richard  and  Henry,  and 
unto  my  daughters  Ketura,  Hannah  and  Elizabeth,  £200  apeice  when  respectively  two  and 
twenty  [years  old].  The  household  goods  as  they  stand  in  my  house  I  give  to  Samuel  my  son, 
and  order  that  they  shall  go  along  with  the  house.  I  nominate  my  said  dear  wife  and  kins¬ 
man,  Thomas  Redgrave,  executors.  The  31st  March  1710.  Probatum  quinto  die  July  1715. 
Juramento  Hannse  Collett  unius  executorum.  P.C.C.  132  Fagg. 


358 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  Contains  Glolktt,  1741. 


Cornelius  Collett  of  Melton,  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  Gentleman,  the  23rd  day  of  July 
1741.  To  my  son  Cornelius  Collett  my  messuage  and  lands  in  Westerfield  and  Whitton,  and 
to  the  heirs  of  his  body,  with  remainder,  failing  these,  to  my  son  Anthony  Collett  and  the 
heirs  of  his  .bod}7 ;  and  failing  these,  to  my  nephew  Richard  Woodthorpe,  younger  son  of 
Richard  Woodthorpe  of  Trimly,  Gent.  Unto  my  son  Anthony  Collett  my  .messuage  and  lands 
in  Melton  and  Ufford,  one  moiety  of  which  I  hold  in  right  of  my  late  wife  Margaret  Collett, 
with  remainder,  in  default  of  issue,  to  the  said  Richard  Woodthorpe  the  younger.  Also  to  the 
said  Anthony,  property  in  Knattishall  cum  Buxhall,  Bramford  and  Bromeswell.  If  Richard 
Woodthorpe  should  ever  succeed  to  the  above  property,  he  to  pay  my  two  nieces,  Mary,  wife 
of  Woodthorpe  Buckenham  of  Hadleigh,  Gent.,  and  Rachael  Woodthorpe,  daughter  of  Richard 
Woodthorpe  the  elder  and  sister  of  my  said  niece  Mary,  £500  apiece,  and  £50  to  John  Raydon, 
son  of  John  Raydon  of  Brandiston,  yeoman.  I  appoint  my  two  sons,  Cornelius  and  Anthony, 
to  be  the  Executors  of  this  will,  and  the  said  Richard  Woodthorpe  of  Trimley  and  Woodthorpe 
Buckenham  of  Hadleigh  supervisors.  Witnesses  :  M.  Edwards,  John  Miles,  John  Burrell. 
Probate  30  May  1742. 


This  is  the  last  will  of  me  Anthony  Collett  of  Eyke  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  gentleman, 
made  this  15th  day  of  June  1783.  I  devise  unto  Anthony  Collett,  my  eldest  son,  all  my 
messuages,  lands  and  tenements  in  Walton,  Felixtow,  Trimley  Sfc  Martin  and  Trimley  S*  Mary. 
To  Mary,  my  dear  wife,  my  chaise  and  so  much  of  my  plate,  china,  pictures  and  ffurniture  as 
she  shall  think  proper  to  take,  such  election  to  be  expressed  in  writing  to  be  signed  by  her. 
I  also  give  her  £100  for  mourning,  and  to  all  my  children,  except  Anthony,  £20  a  piece  for 
mourning.  Unto  the  said  Mary,  my  wife,  and  Anthony,  my  son,  and  to  my  son  William  Collett 
my  ffreehold  messuages  in  Melton,  Bromeswell,  Capel  Sk  Andrew,  Shottisham,  Eyke,  Knoddishall, 
Rushmere  and  Bramford,  not  herein  given  to  my  son  Anthony,  in  trust  to  sell  the  same,  the 
moneys  to  be  used  for  purposes  herein  after  mentioned.  I  give  unto  my  son  Nathaniel  Collett 
£1000,  and  to  Woodthorpe  Collett  my  son  £1000,  and  to  Samuel  Collett  my  son  £1000,  and 
to  Elizabeth  Collett  my  daughter.  £1000,  when  they  shall  have  attained  the  age  of  twenty  one 
years.  Trustees  to  place  out  such  respective  sums  in  some  publick  stocks  or  ffunds.  The  residue 
of  the  moneys  shall  belong  and  be  paid  to  my  sons  Cornelius,  Robert,  William,  Nathaniel, 
Woodthorpe  and  Samuell  Collett,  and  to  my  daughters  Margaret,  Elizabeth  and  Ann,  and  to 
my  grandson  William  Mason,  the  son  of  my  late  daughter  Mary  Mason,  equally.  I  nominate- 
Mary,  my  wife,  to  be  the  sole  guardian  of  my  infant  children,  so  long  as  she  shall  live,  in 
their  minorities,  and  in  case  of  her  death  I  appoint  my  said  sons  Anthony  and  William,  and 
the  survivor  of  them  to  be  their  guardians ;  and  declare  this  to  be  my  last  Will  and  Testament,, 
contained  in  six  sheets  of  paper  :  Sealed,  signed  and  published  in  the  presence  of  Sam :  Kilderbee* 
Wm  Batley,  John  Judd. 

This  will  was  proved  the  28th  day  of  April,  1785,  by  the  oaths  of  Mary  Collett,  the 
relict,  and  Anthony  Collett,  the  son  of  the  deceased. 


P.C.C.  180  Ducarel. 


COLLETT  OF  WESTERFIELD. 


359 


Mill  of  Contains  ffioiktt,  1789. 

Cornelius  Collett  of  Westerfield,  Gent.,  27th  March,  1789.  I  confirm  the  marriage  settle 
ment  made  to  Margaret  my  wife,  and  give  her  the  new  tenement  known  by  the  sign  of  the 
Swan  in  Westerfield,  with  remainder,  after  her  decease  to  Margaret  Collett  my  daughter. 
I  also  give  to  Margaret  my  wife  an  annuity  of  £50,  chargeable  on  property  at  Alderton,  now 
in  the  occupation  of  my  nephew  Anthony  Collett  of  Walton,  Esqre.  I  bequeath  all  real  and 
personal  estate  to  my  said  daughter  Margaret,  and  the  heirs  of  her  body,  and  in  default  of 
these  to  Cornelius  Collett,  my  nephew,  of  Woodbridge,  merchant,  and  to  my  esteemed  friend 
William  Goodwin  of  Earl  Soham,  in  trust  to  sell  the  same  and  divide  the  money  so  arising 
between  the  children  of  my  late  brother  Anthony  Collett,  viz.  : — Anthony,  Cornelius,  Robert, 
William,  Woodthorpe  and  Samuel  Collett,  Margaret  wife  of  John  Russell,  Elizabeth  Collett,  and 
Ann  wife  of  William  Jones,  share  and  share  alike.  Trustees  to  invest  £11,000,  and  let  the 
interest  accumulate  until  my  youngest  daughter  come  of  age.  To  Cornelius  Collett,  my  nephew, 
£1,000,  and  to  the  rest  of  the  children  of  my  brother  Anthony  £225  a  piece.  To  William 
Wallis,  son  of  William  Wallis  of  Birmingham,  co.  Warwick,  and  grandson  of  my  late  brother 
Anthony  Collett,  £200.  All  the  residue  of  my  estate  to  Cornelius  Collett,  my  nephew.  Wit¬ 
nesses  :  John  Davis  Plestow,  Edward  Andrews,  William  Fryett. 

Codicil  7th  Septr  1789.  Whereas  since  making  my  will  I  have  consented  to  the  marriage  of 
my  daughter  with  John  Davis  Plestow  of  Ipswich,  Clerk,  but  according  to  said  will  the  children 
of  my  daughter,  if  she  die  under  age,  would  be  entirely  unprovided  for,  I  do  hereby  devise  all 
my  real  and  personal  estate  to  such  children  in  equal  shares.  But  if  both  she  and  her  issue 
die  under  age  then  the  property  is  to  go  to  my  brother’s  children  as  above,  but  the  said  John 
Davis  Plestow  to  receive  £500.  He  also  to  be  co-executor  with  Cornelius  Collett  and  William 
Goodwin.  Probate  18  Feb.  1790. 


Collett  -prtiujree  from  tljr  23 lots  #lj&. 


W.  Dameron  of  Westerfield  :  5  or  600 1  p.  an. 


Joane  fil  8/'  her.=f =.  .  .  Collett. 


Anthony  Collett =p.  .  .  da.  of  ..  . 


of  Westerfield. 


of  Norwich. 


Philologus=^  Dorcas,  da.  of  Miles 
Collett.  Edgar  of  Eay. 


John,  ob.  s.p.  in  Ireland.  Anthony.  A  dau. — .  1  . 


John  Collett.=y.  .  .  da.  of  .  .  .  Rivers 
of  Chattisham. 


John.  William,  elk.  Samuel. 


- 1 

Obadiah. 


I - 

Samuel. 


John.  Henry. 


Philologus. 


Benjamin.  Bridget. 


Dorcas. 


- 1 

Mary. 


360 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


iprtiujxrr,  Collett  of  OTrstixfietti. 


John  Collett,  of  Westerfield,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,=rJoan,  da.  and  heir  of  John  Dameron,  gent.,  lord  of  the 


married  1577.  Will,  P.C.C.  46  Wallop,  4  March 
1599,  proved  5  June  1600 ;  bur.  24  March  1599. 


Manor  of  Westerfield,  who  made  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  1596, 
proved  1597  ;  her  inq.  p.m.  10  June  43  Eliz. 


Anthony  Collett,  of=pElizabeth, 
Westerfield,  gent.,  da. of  John 
son  and  heir,  lord  of  Jesmond, 
the  Manor.  Inq.  of  Nor- 
p.m.  16  Car.,  died  11  wich,  Esq. 
Aug.  1640. 


Dameron  Col¬ 
lett,  mar.,  25 
Apr.  1600, Ed¬ 
ward  Mann. 

Abigail,  bapt. 
Dec.  1584. 


Martha,  bapt. 
1582 ;  mar. 
Samuel  Jel- 
low,  of  Bury. 


Philologus  Collett,  of-pDorcas,  da.  of 


Edith, 

1589. 


bapt. 


Westerfield,  gent.,  2d 
son  ;  bapt.  1586.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.  7  Novem. 
1646  ;  probt.  7  March 
following. 


i — i - 

John  Collett,  died 
in  Ireland  sans  is¬ 
sue.  Blois. 

....  a  daughter. 
Blois. 


Anthony  Collett.,  of=p 
Westerfield,  gent., 
son  &  heir.  Entered 
ped.  in  Suff.  Visitn. 
1664.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  11  Feb.  1677, 
pr.  7  May  1678. 


1.  Elizabeth,  widow 
of  ...  .  Everitt,  of 
Worlingfield  ( sic), 
living  1681. 


Henry  Collett,  4th 
son, 1662  ;  bap.  22d 
April  1638  ;  issue 
named  in  the  Will 
of  his  brother, 
1681. 


Elizabeth,  da.  of  Wil¬ 
liam  Manning,  of 
Knodishall.  She  re- 
mar.Bence  Dowsing, 
of  Alderton,  gent. 
Her  Will  7  Feb.  1681. 


Philologus,  3d 
son,  bapt.  19 
May  1636. 

Benjamin,  5th 
son ;  liv.  1646. 


Bridget  Collett, 
of  Southwark, in 
co.  Surrey.  Will, 
P.C.C.90  Juxon, 
1662 ;  founded 
school  at  Wes¬ 
terfield. 


- 1 - 

Dorcas, 
wife  of 
Henry 
Spenney 
1662. 


Henry  Edgar, 
gent.,  sister  to 
Miles  Edgar, 
of  Eye  ;  bur. 
25  Sept.  1641. 


John  Collett,  3d  son,  bapt.  23 
April  1588  ;  of  Tuddenham,  co. 
Suffolk,  gent.,  1646;  married 
Elizabeth,  da.  of  ...  .  Rivers, 
of  Chattisham.^p 


Martha, 

named 

1646 

in  her 

father’s 

Will. 


- 1 

Mary. 

Blois. 


John.  Obadiah. 

Blois.  Blois. 


Samuel. 

Blois. 


John  Collett,  2d  son, 
bap.  25  Mar.  1634. 
Had  issue,  1681,  re¬ 
ferred  to  in  the  Will 
of  Samuel  Collett, 
his  brother. 


Samuel  Collett,  son  &  h.= 
of  Westerfield,  gent. ; 
bapt.  12  April  1631 ;  had 
Grant  of  Arms,  1664. 
Will,  P.C.C.  161  North, 
21  Apr.  1681,  pr.  21  Nov. 
following. 


'Elizabeth,  da.  &  coh. 
of  Wm.  Fox,  of  Hol- 
lesley,  gent.,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C. 
141  King  1676.  Her 
sister  Martha  mar. 
Cornelius  Collett. 


— i 

William  Collett, 
clerk  [Blois),  son 
of  John  ;  born  at 
Westerfield;  sizar 
Gonville  &  Caius 
Coll.,Camb.;adm. 
17  Oct.  1643. 


2.  Anne,  wife  of  John 
Langley,  of  Ipswich ; 
named,  1681.  in  her 
mother’s  Will. 


3.  Mary,  wife  of 
Thomas  Brown¬ 
ing,  of  Copdock, 
1681. 


4.  Rebecca, 
wife  of  Jn. 
Revett,  of 
Bramford. 


Candace, wife  of 
John  Hasell,  of 
Akenham ;  mar. 
lie.  1  Feb.  1675. 


Elizabeth,  named 
in  her  father’s 
Will  1681. 


Mary,  named  in 
her  father’s  Will 
1681. 


Martha,  1st  wife,  da.  &  coh. — Cornelius  Collett,  of  Wes-=pElizabeth,  2d  wife,  da. 


of  William  Fox,  of  Holles- 
lejq  sister  to  Eliz.,  wife  of 
Samuel  Collett ;  mar.  lie. 
22  June  1675. 


terfield,  gent.,  only  son. 
Admon.,  P.C.C.  3  June 
1688,  to  Elizabeth,  his 
relict. 


of  Bence  Dowsing,  of 
Alderton ;  mar.  lie. 
Arch.  Suffolk  28  July 
1680. 


Samuel  Collett,  of  Westerfield,1 
gent.,  only  surviving  son. 
Will,  P.C.C.  132  Fagg  1710, 
proved  5  July  1715.  M.I.  in 
Westerfield  church. 


A 


Hannah,  da.  of  Wm. 
Hammond,  of  Ufford, 
gent.,  by  his  wife 
Hannah,  da.  of  Ro¬ 
bert  Villers.1 


ElizabethCollett,  Anthony  Collett, 
eldest  da.,  bapt.  bapt.  at  Wester- 
at  Westerfield  24  field  25  April 
June  1681.  1686. 


Cornelius  Collett,  of  Melton,  co.= 
Suffolk,  gent.,  bapt.  atWesterfield 
12  May  1685.  Will,  Arch.  Suff. 
23  July  1741,  proved  30  May 
1742  ;  bur.  at  Westerfield. 


Margaret,  da.  of  . .  .  Mary,  bapt.  24  June  1683  ;  mar.  Rich.  Wood- 
Crisp,  of  Melton  ;  thorpe,  of  Trimley,  gent,  (who  made  Will, 
bur.  at  Westerfield  P.C.C.  314  Pinfold  1754),  and  had,  with 
22d  Feb.  1701-2.  other  issue,  a  dau.  Mary,  wife  of  Wood- 

thorpe  Buckenham  of  Hadleigh,  gent. 


Margaret  Driver, =j-Cornelius  Collett,  of  Westerfield,  gent.  ;- 


last  wife,  ob.  3 
Sept.  1819,  set. 
76  ;  bur.  at  Wes¬ 
terfield. 


bapt.  27  Aug.  1719.  Will,  Arch.  Suff. 
27  March  1789;  proved  18  Feb.  1790; 
ob.  10  Feb.,  bur.  13  Feb.  1790,  set.  71. 
Had  four  wives. 


-Jane,  1st  wife,  Anthony  Collett,  of  Eyke,  co.  Suf- 
bur.  at  Wester-  folk,  gent.,  younger  son,  bapt.  10 
field  20  Jan.  Feb.  1720.  Will,  P.C.C.  180  Du- 
1752;  no  sur-  carel  15  June  1783,  proved  28  April 
viving  issue.  1785. 


Margaret,  surviving  da.  and  heir, bapt. 
19  Oct.  1770 ;  mar.  6  April  1790,  Rev. 
John  Davis  Plestow,  of  Ipswich,  after¬ 
wards  Rector  of  Harkstead,  co.  Suffolk. 


Mary,  born  1746 ;  mar., 
1,  .  .  (?)  Wallis  or  .  . 
Mason  of  Birmingham ; 
she  was  dead  in  1783. 


John,  b.  1750, 
&  Nathaniel, 
b.  1757,  died 

in  infancy. 


Margaret,  b.  1752  ;  mar., 
1,  Thomas  Ward,  of 
Dedham  ;  2,  Jo.  Russell, 
of  Woodbridge. 


Ann,  b. 
1759, 
mar.  W. 
Jones. 


Mary,  da.  of  Robert 
May,Esq.,HighSher- 
iff  of  Suffolk  1758. 
She  died  27  Feb. 
1799. 


Elizabeth,  b.  1754  ; 
mar.,  1,  John  Eb- 
den,of  Stowupland ; 
2,  .  .  .  Carthew. 


See  next  page. 


1  For  her  lineage  and  kindred  see  the  pedigree  of  Hammond  of  Ufford  from  the  Visitation  of  London,  1687. 
Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  i,  269. 


COLLETT  OF  WESTERFIELD. 


36  L 


Collett  of  OTrstrrfielti  anti  l\ntt. 


Anthony  Collett,  lord  of  the  Manor  of  Eyke,  co.  Suffolk  ;=pMary,  da.  of  Robert  May,  Esq.,  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk, 
bapt.  1720.  Will,  P.C.C.  180  Duoarel,  15  June  1783.  1758.  She  died  27  Feb.  1799. 


Mary,  b.  1746, 
mar.  William 
WallisMason ; 
dead  1783. 


Cornelius  Collett,  of  Wood- 
bridge,  b.  1748;  mar.  .  .  .  , 
da.  of  ...  .  Page,  of  Ciop- 
ton  ;  ob.  1828. 


Margaret,  b.  1752 ;  mar. 
1st  Thomas  Ward,  2d 
John  Russell,  of  Wood- 
bridge,  co.  Suffolk. 


Elizabeth,  b.  1754, 
mar.  John  Ebden, 
of  Stowupland,  co. 
Suffolk. 


John,  b.  1750, 
&  Nathaniel, 
died  in  in¬ 
fancy. 


Anne,b.  1759. 
mar.  William 
Jones,  living 
1789. 


Samuel  Collett 
of  Foxall,  born 

1764,  mar . 

Day. 


Anthony  Collett, npCath- 
of  Walton,  co.  erine 
Suffolk,  gent.  ;  b.  Trus- 
1744,  ob.  1804.  son.1 


Robert  Collett,  of  Win.  Collett,  b.  1755;  adm. 
London,  b.  1749,  Merton  Coll.,  Oxon,  1783 ; 

mar . Brice,  mar.  Anna,  d.  of  Rev.  Thos, 

=p  Carthew,  of  Woodbridge. 

A 

See  Pedigree  A. 


Charlotte  Spur-^Woodthorpe  Collett,  born=f=Letitia  Skin- 


ling,  of  Grun- 
disburg,  Suf¬ 
folk  ;  1st  wife. 


1762;  had  son,  Wood- 
thorpe  Collett,  of  Wood- 
bridge,  M.A.,  Cantab.  1827. 


A 


ner,  of  Ips¬ 
wich;  2d  wife. 


A 


Rev.  Anthony  Collett, =j=  Anne  Thomas  Collett,  of= 


B.A.,  Oxon,  1790 ;  M.A. 
1793 ;  Rector  of  Heven- 
ingham,  co.  Suffolk  ;  ob. 
1838.  ^ 


Rachel  Ringleton,  Wood- 
Curtis.  nesborough,  Kent; 

ob.  1845,  sot.  73  ; 


M.I.  at  Minster. 


See  Pedigree  B. 


: Margaret  Catherine,  mar.  Charles  Collett,  of  Walton,  Cornelius  Collett,  of 

Bushell,  H.  P.  Hannam,  m.  1st  Mary  Lynch,  2d  Eliz.  Beverley,  co.  York; 

ofMinster,  of  Northborne,  Harmsworth  &  had  issue.  mar.  Amelia  Daniel ; 

Thanet ;  Kent;  she  d. 1854  =p  ob.  1840;  leaving 

ob.  1838.  leaving  issue.  /)\  four  sons. 

See  Pedigree  B. 


Thomas  Collett,  of  Ringle¬ 
ton,  b.  1805 ;  ob.  15  Aug. 
1873 ;  mar.  Jane  Tomlin, 
of  Ash,  in  co.  Kent. 


i - 

Anne 
Friend, 
born 
1841  ; 


Mary,  mar.  Thos.  Wickes 
Solly,  of  Dent  de  Lion, 
Margate,  Kent,  by  whom 
three  sons  and  four 
daughters. 


Sarah  Crofts=f-George  Collett,  of= 


King,  ob.  10 
March  1850, 
aged  43 ;  1st 
wife. 


Walter’sHall, Monk- 
ton,  Kent ;  born 
1806,  ob.  21  Jan. 
1882. 


- i — 

:Eliza-  Marg- 
beth  aret, 

Smith;  died 
2d  unm. 

wife. 


Catherine,  b.  23  Sept.  1810  ; 
mar.  Henry  Gordon  Har- 
bord,  of  Liverpool,  surgeon, 
who  died  in  1849. 


Katherine,  b. 
1835,  d.  1884, 
mar.  B.  T. 
Whittington. 


Georgiana, 
mar. Thom¬ 
as  Trusson 
Collett,  of 
Ringleton. 


George, 
died 
1844, 
aet.  6 
years. 


George  Alfred^ 
Collett,  of  Wal¬ 
ter’s  Hall  in 
Monkton  ;  b. 
1848,  ob.  1907. 


:Georgina 

Clemson, 

mar. 

1881. 


Cornelius  Isab- 
Collett,  b.  ella. 
1857, mar.  — 
Edith  Emily. 
Solly. 


Alice,  mar. 
Rev.  T.  W. 
Tidmarsh, 
Rector  of 
Slapton. 


George  Clemson  Collett,  Alfred, 

born  1882.  b.  1883. 


Dorothy,  Harold,  Percy  Stapleton  Collett, 

b.  1885.  b.  1887.  b.  1888. 


Collett  Har- 
bord,  born 
1846,  died  25 
Jan.  1886, 
sine  prole. 


i - - » - 1 

Thomas  Trusson  Collett,  of=f=Georgiana,  da.  of  Geo.  George  Collett,  b.  1844, 


Ringleton,  co.  Kent ;  ob.  19 
Aug.  1881 ;  mar.  his  cousin. 


Collett,  of  Walter’s  Yicar  of  Basildon,  in 
Hall,  Monkton.  co.  Berkshire. 


Rev.  Harry  Harbord,  b.  1844,=pEllen  Jane,  dau.  of  Har- 


Rector  of  East  Hoathly,  co. 
Sussex ;  mar.  1882. 


- - r- , - | 

Thomas  Collett, =j=  Agnes  Maud, da.  of  Charles,  b.  1875 ;  William=pRuth  Lilian,  dau.  of 


b.  1867  ;  Yicar 
of  St.  Mary’s, 
Doncaster. 


Charles  Theodore  ob.  1903.  George 

Bewes,  of  Manna-  —  Collett, 

mead,  Plymouth.  Katherine,  b.  28  b.  1869. 
Dec.  1878. 


I - r 

Thomas  Kathleen 

Theodore,  Maud, 
b.  1897.  b.  1899. 


- 1 - 1 

Florence  Evelyn 
Mary,  Margaret, 
b.  1902.  b.  1905. 


Rev.  P.  H.  Kemp- 
thome,  of  Wellington 
College,  co.  Berks. 


Harry  Collett 
Harbord,  of  the 
Inner  Temple, 
Barrister  at  Law; 
born  1883. 


rison  Blair,  of  Kearsley, 
co.  Lancashire. 


Frances 
Evelyn, 
b.6  Mar. 
1887. 


- : 

Kenneth 
Blair,  b. 
11  Aug. 
1888. 


i - 

Charles  George 
Trusson,  Kempthorne, 
b.  1904.  b.  1907. 


Stephen  Geoffrey  Ellen  Beatrice  Arthur  Mac- 

Gordon,  Mann,  Marion,  b.  23  donald,  b.  26 

b.  1890.  b.  1892.  July  1894.  Aug.  1897. 


1  The  Trussons  were  long  connected  with  the  Colletts.  Thomas  Trusson  of  Alderton,  gent.,  in  his  Will,  1686,  names 
Elizabeth,  wife  of  Cornelius  Collett  and  daughter  of  his  sister  Hannah  Dowsing.  Gabriel  Trusson  of  Kelsale,  Esq.,  one  of 
this  family,  was  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  in  1766. 

2  W 


362 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


^rtugnx  <3.  Collett  of  HonlJon  anti  Norfolk. 


Anthony  Collett,  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Eyke,  co.  Suffolk  ;=pMary,  da.  of  Robert  May,  of  Westwood  Lodge,  and  of 
bapt.  18  Feb.  1721,  mar.  19  Feb.  1743,  died  27  Feb.  1785,  I  Eyke,  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk  1758;  she  died  25  Nov.  1799, 
aged  64.  .  j  aged  77. 


AnthonyCollett,  eldest  son,=pCatherine 
of  Walton,  co.  Suffolk,  Trusson. 
gent.,  b.  1744;  died  1804. 


A 

See  Pedigree  B. 


Robert  Collett,  of  Lon¬ 
don,  3d  son,  bapt.  16 
Sept.  1749,  died  July 
1824,  set.  77. 


Mane,  d.  &  h.  of  . . . 
Brice,  of  South¬ 
ampton,  b.  1752, 
m.  1780,  d.  1833. 


William  Collett,  4th  son, =i= Anna,  da.  of  Rev.  Thos. 


Rector  of  Swanton  Mor- 
lev,  Norfolk  ;  b.  1775,  m. 
1784,  d.  30  Sept.  1825. 


Carthew,  of  Woodbridge ; 
d.  at  Clapham,  Surrey, 
27  Dec.  1830,  aged  70. 


4- 


Rev.  Robert  Collett,  born=j=  Frances  Meyler,  da.  of 


1782,  mar.  27  Oct.  1809, 
died  at  Westerham,  co. 
Kent,  22  July  1838. 


Henry  Smith, of  Peckham 
House,  co.  Surrey ;  b. 
1790,  d.  26  Aug.  1857. 


William 

Collett, 

died 

s.p. 


Sara,  mar.  Geo.  Whit¬ 
more,  a  quo  Kenyon 
Slaney  and  the  Court- 
hopes  of  Whiligh. 


Mary,  mar.  Thos. 
Leventhorpe,  of 
London.  No  sur¬ 
viving  issue. 


Sophia,  mar.,  Nov.  1816, 
John  Deacon,  Banker,  of 
London  &  Mapledon,  co. 
Kent ;  she  died  in  1864. 


r- 
Robert 
Henry 
Collett, 
ob.  s.p. 
1831. 


Rev.  William  Lloyd=j=Frances  Harriet, 
Collett,  Yicar  of  dau.  of  Henry 
St.Stephen’s,  Shep-  Smith,  of  Mor- 
herd’s  Bush ;  born  den  College, 
1818,  died  1896.  Blaokheath. 


Phillis  Preston,  da.: 
of  F.  R.  Reynolds, 
of  Great  Yarmouth, 
first  wife ;  died  4 
June  1831. 


=Rev.  William  Collett, =pEllen,  dau.  of  Leon- 


Rector  of  Thetford, 
Norfolk,  &  Chaplain 
of  Morden  College, 
Blackheath. 


ard  Shelford  Bid- 
well,  Esq.,  mar.  1835, 
second  wife. 


Frances,  mar.  Rev. 
Preston  Reynolds, 
of  Thetford,  co. 
Norfolk. 


A 


Alfred  Col-= 
lett,  M.I.C.E., 
died  29  June 
1895. 


TdaM.,da.  Jessie  S.  Collett,  mar.  herkins- 
of  James  man,  James  Collett  Masen,  now 
Wilkin-  in  Argentina. 


Rev.William  ReynoldsCollett, 
Rector  of  Hethersett,  Norfolk; 
Hon.  Canon  of  Norwich  ;  mar. 
. . .  Hoste  ;  d.  s.p.  1902,  set.  79. 


Sir  Henry  Col¬ 
lett,  K.B..  died 
unmarried  Dec. 
1901. 


Sophia,  mar.  Mary 
Col.  Norgate,  Collett, 
and  d.  s.p.  at 
Hethersett. 


Reginald  Alfred  Collett,  b.  14  April  1888. 


William  Wallis  Collett  Mason. 


Margaret. 


Ascelin. 


- 1 

Kathleen. 


35.  Collett  of  $?aUisteali  anil  35ury. 

Anthony  Collett,  of  Walton,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.  ;=pCatherine  Trusson,  of  Kelsale. 
born  1744,  died  31  July  1804.  I  She  died  in  1819. 


Rev.  Anthonv  Collett,  B.A.,=j=Anne 
Oxon,  1790 ';  M.A.  1793;  Rachel 
Rector  of  Heveningham,  Curtis, 
co.  Suffolk  ;  ob.  1838. 


Catherine  Charlotte,  mar. 
Rev.  T.  J.  Blofeld,  Rector 
of  Drayton,  in  co.  Norfolk, 
and  left  issue. 


Thos.  Collett, 
of  Ringleton, 
mr.  Margaret 
Bushell.  See 
ped.  p.  361. 


Catherine,  mar.  H.  P. 
Hannam.  Harriet,  her 
daughter,  mar.  Anthony 
Collett,  her  cousin. 


Cornelius  Col¬ 
lett,  of  Bever¬ 
ley  ;  mar.  and 
had  issue. 


Mary-rCharles  Collett,  of=pEliza- 


Lynch, 

first 

wife. 


Walton,  co.  Suffolk  ; 
died  16  Aug.  1842, 
aged  66. 


Anne,  mar.  Fenton  J. 
Hort,  Esq.;  had  son, Dr. 
Hort,  Hulsean  Prof,  of 
Divinity,  Camb. 


William  Col¬ 
lett,  died 
young. 


i - 1 — 

Mary,  mar.  Rev.  Char- 
E.  Edgar,  Rector  lotte, 
of  Trimley,  in  Suf-  s.p. 
folk. 


Catherine, 
married  H. 
Wilkin,  s.p. 


Elizabeth, 
married  P. 
Fletcher, s.p. 


beth 
Harms- 
worth, 
second 
wife. 


Anthony  Collett,  Esq.,  of  Bury= 
St. Edmunds,  Captain'East  Suf¬ 
folk  Militia.  Born  1800,  ob. 
1856. 


-Harriet  Pett,  da.  of  H.  P. 
Hannam,  Esq.,  of  North- 
bourne  Court,  Kent. 


Mary  Cecil  Augusta  von  Linsingen,=j=Rev.  William  Collett, = 
sister  of  Count  Linsingen  Chamber- 
lain  to  George  V,  King  of  Hanover. 

1st  wife. 


Rector  of  Hawstead, 
co.  Suffolk. 


Rev.  Anthony  Collett,  Rector  of  Hasting- 
leigh  with  Elmsted,  1880-95;  Yicar  of 
Bredhurst,  Kent,  1895-05 ;  residing  at 
Canterbury. 


T 


Harriet,  mar.  Rev.  Maria, 
John  Ley,  Rector  of  unm., 
Waldron,  Sussex ;  re-  died 
siding  at  Guildford.  1894. 


~l 


Frances 
Ellen ; 
at  Can¬ 
terbury. 


1.  Sophia 
Elizabeth, 
ob.15  Aug. 
1899. 


-+ - 1 


2.  Ellen  Mary, 
of  Bury  St. 
Edmunds. 


Charlotte 
Stowiczek, 
2d  wife. 


8.  Leonora 
Julia,  of 
Bury  St. 
Edmunds. 


T 


3.  Augusta  Cecily,  4.  Mary  Louisa,  5.  William  Charles,  6.  Agnes  Marie,  mar.  Rev.  7.  Frederick  William, 

now  in  California,  a  deaconess  in  of  Wimbledon,  co.  A.  Woodforde,  Vicar  of  went  to  California, 

U.S.A.  London.  Surrey.  Locking,  Somerset.  IJ.S.A. 


9.  John  Anthony  Col¬ 
lett,  now  in  Washing¬ 
ton  State,  U.S.A. 


$lusfcett  of  ?|augt)lEj>. 


Confirmation  of  Arms  to  '#rnro  Jltusbtt,  1576. 

To  all  and  singular,  as  well  nobles  and  gentles  as  others,  to  whom  theis  psents  shall 
come,  Robt.  Cooke,  Esqr,  ats  Clarencieaulx,  Principall  Heraulte  T  Kinge  of  Armes  of  the  south 
Est  and  West  partes  of  this  Realme  of  England,  from  the  Riuer  of  Trent  southwards,  sendithe 
greettinge  in  owre  Lord  Cod  euerlastinge :  And  wheras  auntientlie,  from  the  begininge,  the 
valiant  and  vertious  Actes  of  worthey  parsons  haue  byn  comendid  vnto  the  worlde  wth  sundrey 
monumentts,  remembrances  of  their  good  deseartes  :  Emongest  the  which  the  cheifest  T  most 
vsuall  hath  byn  the  bearinge  of  signes  in  sheildes  caulled  Armes,  wch  are  non  other  then 
demonstrations  of  prowis  T  valoire,  diuersley  distributed  accordinge  to  the  qualiteys  T  deseartes 
of  the  parsons,  that  such  signes  T  tokens  of  the  dilligent,  fayethefull  T  coragous  might  appeare 
before  the  neiglegent,  courd  T  ignorant,  T  be  a  sufficient  cause  to  moue,  stirr  T  kindle  the 
hartes  of  men  to  Imittation  of  virtue  T  nobless :  Euen  so  hath  the  same  byn  T  yet  is 
contynualy  obserued,  to  the  Intent  that  such  as  haue  done  comendable  seruice  to  their  Prince 
or  Cuntrey,  ether  in  warr  or  peace,  may  therefore  both  recieaue  due  honor  in  their  liues,  T 
also  deriue  the  same  succesiuely  to  their  posterity  after  them.  And  beinge  required  of  Henry 
Muskett,  of  Halston  in  the  County  of  Suffolke,  gent.,  to  make  serche  in  the  Registers  1 
recordes  of  my  office  for  such  Armes  T  Creast  as  he  may  lawfully  beare ;  wherupon  at  his 
request  I  haue  made  serch  accordingly  T  do  find  that  he  may  lawfully  beare  the  Armes  T 
Creast  heareafter  folio winge : — That  is  to  say  Siluer,  tow  barrs  betwene  six  leopards’  heads, 
gules :  and  to  his  Creaste  or  Cognisance,  vpon  the  heaulme,  on  a  wi’eathe  siluer  ct  gules,  out 
of  a  crowne  wtu  a  chayne  sables,  a  demy  Antelopp  gould,  mantled  gules,  dubbed  siluer,  as 
more  playnly  Appereth  depicted  in  the  margent.  The  which  Armes  'I  creste,  'I  euery  parte 
and  parcelle  therof,  I  the  sayd  Clarenciaulx  Kinge  of  Armes,  by  power  and  Authority  vnto 
my  office  anexed  I  graunted  by  letters  pattente  vnder  the  great  Seale  of  England,  haue  rattified, 
confirmed  and  allowed,  given  T  granted  vnto  T  for  the  abouesayd  Henry  Muskett,  Gent.,  and 
to  his  posteritye,  wth  their  due  diffrences  to  vse,  beare  and  shew,  in  sheild,  cotearmoure 
or  otherwise,  wthout  impediment,  lett  or  interuption  of  any  pson  or  parsons.  In  wittnesse 
wherof  I  the  sayd  Clarencieulx  Kinge  of  Armes  haue  signed  theis  psents  wth  my  hand  T 
therunto  sett  the  seale  of  my  office,  the  13th  day  of  September  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lord  God 
1576,  and  in  the  23th  yere  of  the  Raigne  of  our  Souraigne  lady  Elizab,  by  the  grace  of  God 
Queene  of  England,  ffrance  T  Ireland,  Defender  of  the  faithe,  etc. 

Robt.  Cook  alias  Clarencieulx  Roy  D’armes. 

The  seale  by  some  accident  is  broke  away. 

Pedigrees  and  Coats  by  Randle  Holme.  Harl.  MS.  2146,  fo.  120. 

2  w2 


364 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


The  Arms  originally  assigned  to  the  families  of  Muschett  and  Muskett  were  three  male 
sparrowhawks,  which  were  anciently  termed  “  muskets.”  Thus  the  shield  of  a  certain  Robert 
Muschet,  circa  1259,  is  described  as  “scutum  d’azur  et  tres  muschetz  d’or  ”  ( Matthew  Paris, 
Works,  vol.  vii,  Additamenta ) ;  and  that  of  the  Muschetts  of  Fenditton,  whose  name  is  variously 
spelt  Musket,  Muschet  and  Muchet,  in  the  Rotuli  Hundredorum,  was  Gules,  three  sparrowhawks 
Or.  This  will  be  found,  with  other  quarterings,  on  the  escutcheon  of  their  descendants,  the  Cheneys, 
in  the  Visitation  of  Cambridge,  Harl.  MS.  1534,  fo.  124  b.  In  continental  heraldry,  again,  the  arms 
of  various  families  of  Mouchet  are  variants  of  “  De  gu.  a  trois  emouchets  d’or” — “emouchet” 
being  a  sparrowhawk.  ( Riestap ,  Armorial  General ,  vol.  ii )  But  when  Henry  Muskett  of 
Harleston,  in  Suffolk,  required  Clarencieux  to  search  the  Registers  of  his  office  for  such  arms 
as  he  might  lawfully  use,  that  herald,  recalling  the  statement  that  Harleston  Manor  had  once 
belonged  to  King  Harold  ( Hollingsworth’s  Stowmarket,  p.  44),  deemed  that  its  present  possessor 
could,  very  reasonably,  bear  something  resembling  the  reputed  shield  of  that  monarch,  viz , 

Gules  crusilly,  and  two  bars  between  six  leopards’  faces  Or,  3,  2,  1,  and  so  allowed  him  the 

Argent,  two  bars  between  six  leopards’  faces  Gules,  3,  2,  1,  of  the  grant  or  confirmation. 

Thus  evolved,  the  Muskett  arms  were  set  up,  with  those  of  other  Suffolk  gentlemen,  in  the 
windows  of  Preston  Church,  by  Ryece  the  Antiquary,  in  1631  ( Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  i, 
p.  103).  They  found  a  place  in  the  dining  hall  windows  at  Butley  Abbey  towards  the  end  of 

the  seventeenth  century  (Op.  Cit.,  vol.  i,  p.  117).  They  were  still  extant  upon  the  quaint  old 

Humphrey  monument  in  Occold  Church  when  Davy  visited  that  parish,  early  in  the  nineteenth 
century.  They  appear,  too,  with  other  quarterings,  on  the  book  plate  of  Francis  Bloraefield,  the 
Norfolk  Historian,  and  upon  the  Blomeficld  monuments  in  the  Church  of  Fersfield,  of  which  he 
was  sometime  Rector. 


irntrt)  JitusMt,  $ur tljazt  of  jfangljUu  lattDo,  136 6* 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Reg  apud  Westih  a  die  sci  michis  in  quindecim 
dies  anno  regni  Reg  Edwardi  fcij  a  conquestu  tricesimo  nono,  coram  Robto  de  Thorp,  Johe 
Moubray  T  Johe  Knyvet,  Justic  T  alijs  dni  Reg  fidelibj  tunc  ibi  fisentibj,  InP  Hen?  Musket 
que?  T  Johem  Bresete  T  Aliciam  vxem  eius  deforc,  de  vno  mesuagio,  quinquaginta  T  septem 
acris  tre,  vna  acra  prati,  tribj  acris  bosci  T:  decern  T  nouem  marcatis  redditus  cum  ptin  in 
Haghele.  Vnde  plitm  conuencois  sum  fuit  int  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Sciit  qd  jidci  Johes  T;  Alicia 
recogn  fidca  ten  cum  ptiii  esse  Jus  ipius  Hen?,  vt  ilia  que  idem  Hen?  het  de  dono  pdcorj 
Johis  T  Alicie  T  he?  ipius  Alicie,  f?dco  Hen?  T  he?  suis  imppm.  Et  pte'^ea  ijdem  Johes  T 
Alicia  concesserunt  p  se  T  he?  ipius  Alicie  qd  ipi  Warant  [idco  Hen?  T  he?  suis  {idea  ten 
cum  gtin  conta  oines  hoies  imppm.  Et  p  hac  recogn,  remissione,  quietclain,  Waf,  fine  % 
concordia,  idem  Hen?  dedit  j'idcis  Johi  T  Alicie  decern  marcas  argenti.  Suff. 

Suffolk  Fines,  39  and  40  Edw.  Ill,  No.  4. 


Hill  of  WtUtam  JHuskett,  1431. 


In  dei  noie  Amen:  quarto  die  mensis  Januarij  anno  dni  m'ccccli :  Ego  Will  Musket  de 
Sudbu?  condo  test  meum.  Inpmis  coinendo  aiam  mea  deo  he  m®  et  oib3  scis,  corf!  que  meu 


MUSKETT  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


365 


sepeliend  in  sepultur  eccie  pocft  Sci  Gregorij  in  Sudbur.  Lego  sumo  altari  ecc  Sci  Pet  eiusdrh 
vitt  in  recopensacoem  oblationu  T:  decima^  negligent  ornissar^  xxd.  It.  lego  collegio  Sci  Greg : 
dece  solid  ut  confratres  ibm  celebrant  p  aia  xnea  unu  trigintale  Sci  Gregorij.  Lego  fi'ibj  predicat 

dom9  Sudbur  decern  solid.  Lego  f rit>3  coiient  domus  de  Clare  dece  solid  ut  ipi  cuilt  celebrant 

p  aia  mea  unu  trigintale  Sci  Greg.  Lego  fribj  pdicat  dom9  ut  ipi  celebrent  p  aia  mea  unu 
trigintale  Sci  Gregorij  T;  ecia  lego  eisdin  fribj  ad  repacoem  dom9  sue  prdict  viginti8,  et  fribj 
dom9  de  Clare  ad  repacoem  domus  sue  xxs.  Lego  Katerine  filie  mee  dece  marcas  cum  uno  lecto 
integr  unu  pelium  cii  lauator  una  olla  et  una  patella  eneu  et  una  cista.  Lego  Wiltmo  Musket 
nepoti  meo  cent  solid.  Lego  Join  Goche  sadeler  nup  apffnticio  meo  unu  lectu  pic  dece  solid 
vel  eand  surha  monete.  Yolo  ut  Isabel  1  ux  mea  heat  meu  capitale  messuag  in  Sudbf,  quondam 
Wih  Plasslie,  cu  uno  gardino  nup  Jo  his  Barbor,  ad  term  vitie  sue,  et  post  ejusd  ux  mee  decess 
volo  ut  diet  mess  L  gardinu  vendant  et  moneta  inde  pven  dispontur  p  aia  mea  T;  aiabj  Agnetis 
ux  mee  defunct,  proviso  tamen  qd  Alicia  Regneld  mater  prfate  Isabefl  ux  mee  heat  una  carrla 
in  dto  messuagio  ad  term  vitse  sue.  Lego  Rico  Ive  nup  apprentico  meo  omia  Instrumenta, 
dicta  le  tooles,  artis  mee.  Omnia  alia  terrae  T;  tent  mea  volo  ut  vendan?.  Volo  qd  si  prefatus 

Ricus  Ive  voluit  emere  schoppas  meas  juxta  mercatu  de  le  pultri  volo  ut  ipe  emat  R  heat  eas 

p  xl8.  Ordino  Isabella  ux  mea,  Will  Scales,  Johem  Smyth  de  Yeldham  et  jicltam  Ricrh  Jve 
executores  quibj  do  Residuu  omni  bono^  ad  vendend.  In  quo^  oranT  R  singulosj  flmiss  testimon 
fisent  sigillum  meu  appens :  jlsent  Thoma  Sybton  J  Thoma  Fen,  capellanus.  Et  etia  volo  ut 
Johes  Musket,  clericus,  fra?  men  sit  supervisor.  Probation  apud  Sudbur  xx°  die  mensis  Feb 
anno  dni  m'ccccli. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Baldwyne,”  fo.  134  b. 


Mill  of  John  Jltnskett,  iUctor  of  fettntltam,  1455, 

In  Dei  nole  Amen.  Ego  Johes  Musket,  Rector  ecclie  poch  de  Brethenham,  sana  memento 
ac  bona  memoria  existens  apud  Brethenham  fidict,  octavo  die  menj  Octobr  anno  dni  m'cccclv0,  condo 
testm  meum  in  hunc  modum.  Jnjlmis  comendo  aiam  mea  deo  omnipotenti,  btee  marie  Virgini 
T;  omibj  scis,  corpus  qj  meu  ad  sepeliend  in  Cancel!  ecciie  prdict  coram  summo  altar.  It  lego 

ad  emendaeoem  unius  fenestr  iuxta  pulpeto  ecclie  fide  xx8.  It  lego  ad  emendacoem  ecciie 
pdict  iij8  iiijd.  If  lego  fabrice  ecclie  de  Haughlee  vj8  viijd.  Tt  lego  que  ord  firm  fidicato^  de 
Sudbur  ij8.  It  lego  Conuentui  ordinis  fffm  myno^  de  Babwell  ij8.  It  lego  Conuentui  ordj 

fratrum  bte  marie  de  monte  Carmeli  de  Gippewico  ijs.  If  lego  couentui  ordinis  fratrum  Augusf 
de  Clare  ij3.  It  lego  Wilimo  hamond  filiolo  meo  ij  quarter  ordij.  If  lego  Edmundo  Musket 

unu  quarter  ordij.  If  lego  Wilimo  Whatfeld  iiij  bj  fri  &  iiij  bj  ordij.  It  volo  qd  unus 
Capellanus  idoneus  sustentet  ad  celebrand  p  aTa  mea  &  p  aiabj  quibj  teneor  p  unum  annum. 
Residuum  vero  omh  bono^  &  catallajj  meo|  do  &  lego  executory  meis  ad  vedend,  recipiand  et 
recipiend  ac  disponend  pro  aia  mea  &  aiabj  omi  fidelium  defunctojj  in  opibj  caritaf  put 
executor  mei  viderint  deo  melius  placere  &  dcis  aiabj  expedir.  Et  huius  testi  facio  ordino  & 
constituo  executores  meos  Hugonem  Whersted  de  Brethenhm  fidief  &  WiRm  Musket.  Et  facio 
Ricrh  Swattok,  Rectorem  ecclie  poch  de  Bilston  supuisor.  In  cui9  rei  testiom  huic  fisenti 
testamento  meo  sigiliu  meu  apposui. 

Probatum  apud  Gippowicm  xiij0  die  mensis  Octobris,  anno  dni,  mcccclv0. 

Norwich  Consistory,  Liber  Brosiard,  fo.  211. 


366 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


WtU  of  Ipitry  JHnskett,  1468. 

In  dei  nole  Amen.  Ego  Henricus  Muskett  de  Haghley  Nor01  dioc  &c.  iiij0  die  Decembr, 
anno  dni  m'cccclxvi,  condo  tm  meu  in  hunc  mod.  In  pmis  lego  aiam  mea  deo  &c.  [sic].  It 
assigno  sumo  altari  dee  ecctie  p  dec  oblit^  iij8  iiijd :  assigno  f i  i bj  de  Babewell  p  tren11  Sci 
Gregorij  x8 :  assigno  Wido  Parker  Juh  matrice  ove :  assigno  Wido  Muskett  unu  agnu :  assigno 
Join  Muskett  filio  meo  magnu  pateft  de  la  braze  et  una  togam  de  violett :  assigno  Edo  Muskett 
filio  meo  una  togam  virid  :  assigno  Alic  ux  mee  omia  utensilia  ptin  ad  hospiciu  meu  1;  oniia 
bona  mea  et  catalla  mea  mobil  et  imobit.  Resid :  ve°  orh  bon  meo$  do  et  lego  ex  meis  quos 
ordino  et  constituo  Alic  ux  mea,  Johem  Muskett  filiu  meu  T  Thoma  Muskett  ac  Rogeru  bell 
sup  visor.  In  cuius  rei  testirh  apud  Hawley  xxvij  die  Octobr  anno  dni  mcccclxviii0.  No  probate 
is  recorded. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Baldwyne,”  fo.  407. 


®rant  of  lanD  to  Hirbartr  auk  loan  Jfhiskett,  1517. 

> 

Sciant  psent  T  futuri  qd  nos  Wiftms  Muskett,  Jobes  Bukke,  cleri?,  Robtus  Muskett  de 
Haughle,  Henricus  Muskett  de  Buxale  T  Edwardus  Crosse  de  Fyberwe,  dedim,  Concessim  T  hac 
psenti  carta  nra  confirmanl  Ricardo  Muskett  filio  dicti  Willi  T;  Johe  vxori  sue,  Join  Crosse  de 
Fyberwe  pdict,  Ricardo  Regnold  de  Wolpett  T  Johi  Bakoun  de  Haughle  pdict  vnu  inclausii 
vocat  Mansers,  cotinente  quiq^  acr  tre  put  iacet  in  Herleston,  vidlt  ini:1  terra  prioris  de 
Buttele  ex  vna  pte  et  t'ram  manerij  de  Hawghle  ex  al  Pa  pte,  cui9  vnii  caput  abuttat  sup 
terra  pdicti  po^  de  Buttele  v*s  austr,  et  aliud  cap1  abutt  sup  Ratelysmere  9s  aquilon  quequid 
inclausu  nup  huim9  ex  donacio  T  ffeoffamento  Willi  Cook  T  Willi  Bettes  de  Stowemket,  Joliis 
Belle,  Ricardi  Heseth  T:  Willi  Thyng  de  Haughle  pdict,  vt  in  quad  carta  inde  nob  fca  pleni9 
liquet  cui9  dat  est  apd  Hawghley  pdict  in  vigillia  nat  dni  an0  RR  Henrici  septimi  post  coquestu 
Anglie  octauo  decimo,  hend  T  tenend  predem  inclasu  cu  omibj  suis  ptin  pfatf  Ricardo  Muskett 
T  Jolie  vxori  sue,  Johi  Crosse,  Ricardo  Regnolde  T  Johi  Bakonn,  hered  T  assign  suis  ad  opus 
T  vsu  pdei  Ricardi  Muskett  T  J ofte  vxoris  sue  hered  T  assignato^  suo£  imppetuu  de  capit 
dnis  feod  ill  p  §uicia  inde  debit  J  de  iure  consuet.  In  cui9  rei  testiom  huic  psenti  carte  SigiH 
nra  apposum9.  Dat  apd  Harleston  pdict  decimo  die  mens  nouemh  an"  Regni  Regis  Henrici 
Octaui  nono. 

The  deed  is  endorsed  “  Deliberat  est  Seisma  cora  hijs  testibj,  Willmo  abell,  Johe  thyng 
T  Edihndo  Spynke  T  alijs.” 

The  Editor  is  very  greatly  indebted  to  Dr.  W.  A.  Copinger,  Professor  of  Law  in  the 
Victoria  University  of  Manchester  and  author  of  “  The  Manors  of  Suffolk,”  “  Suffolk  Records  and 
MSS.,”  etc.,  for  this  interesting  charter. 


@tU  of  William  jltuskett.  1545. 


The  fourth  day  of  Januarie,  1543,  William  Muskytt  the  elder,  of  Hawghley  in  the 
Countie  of  Suffolke.  To  be  buried  in  the  church  yarde  by  my  wife.  To  Jone  Wage,  doughter 


MUSKETT  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


367 


of  John  Wage  of  Newstreete  at  her  daie  of  marriage.  Vnto  Thomas,  Robert  and  William 
Wage,  sonnes  of  the  saide  John.  To  Margaret  Stannarde,  doughter  of  William  Stannarde  of 
Hawghley,  at  her  marriage.  To  the  five  children  now  livinge  of  Jone  Bowie  at  their  severall 
ages  of  eighteene  yeares.  To  Richard  Muskett  and  John  Muskett,  sonnes  of  John  Muskett  my 
sonne,  at  their  ages  of  eighteene  yeares.  Vnto  Jone,  Margarett  and  Dorothy  Muskett,  doughters 
of  Richard  Muskett  my  sonne.  Vnto  Rose  Osborne,  my  doughter,  my  tenement  called  Swannes 
and  meadow  at  Densebrigge,  sometime  Edmonde  Stannardes,  for  the  terme  of  her  lyfe,  and 
after  her  decease  vnto  William  Osborne  her  sonne.  To  Richard  Cowp  and  William  Cowp,  sonnes 
of  Jone  Bowie,  my  doughter,  at  their  ages  of  eighteene  yeares.  The  Residue  of  my  goodes  I 
give  to  Richard  Muskett  and  John  Muskett,  my  sonnes,  and  Joan  Bowie  my  doughter.  I 
appoynte  Richard  and  John  Muskett,  my  sonnes,  executors.  Probate  1st  July  1544. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Longe,”  fo.  443. 


(HEill  nf  fUcbarti  JRnskett,  1558. 

The  xxij  daye  of  August,  1558,  I  Richard  Musket  of  Ratlesden  in  the  countie  of  Suff. 
make  and  ordaine  this  my  jJsent  testament.  First  I  bequeth  my  soule  to  god  almightie, 
pfightlie  trusting  through  the  merights  of  his  blessed  passion  to  be  saved.  And  my  bodye  to 
be  bowried  in  the  sowthe  side  in  the  church  yarde  where  it  please  god  that  I  shall  departe 
owte  of  this  worlde.  To  the  high  aulters  of  Ratlesden,  Hawley  and  Harleston  for  my  tithes 
and  offerings  to  lytle  paid.  To  the  pore  folke  of  Rattlesden,  Hawlie,  Stowmket,  Drinckston, 
Wulpet,  Monuodon,  Elmswell,  Harleston,  Shelond,  Onehowse,  Fynberrough,  Buxhall,  Dagworth, 
Newton,  Gedding  and  Felsham,  and  all  the  pore  of  the  saide  towns  to  have  the  monie  at  my 
buriall  daye.  I  bequeth  to  the  xij  pore  folke  of  Hawley  and  to  iiijor  pore  folke  of  Harleston 

xvid  euie  weake  one  hole  yeare  after  my  deceaste.  T  bequeth  after  that  yeare,  x  yeares  after, 

x”  a  yeare,  to  be  paied  at  Christmas  and  at  Easter  by  even  porcon.  I  bequeth  to  William, 

my  sonne,  my  meadow  in  Wenarden,  vnder  this  condicon  that  he  paye  the  legacy  to  the  pore 

folke  of  Hawlye  and  Harleston : — -that  is  eight  pounds  ixs  and  iiiid — to  praye  for  my  sowle,  my 
wief’s  sowle  and  all  my  friends  that  daye  in  the  faith  of  Christ.  To  the  mending  of  the  high 
waie  betwen  Mere  bridge  and  Powll’s  wa?,  theare  that  most  neade  is,  fyve  powndes.  I  bequeth 
to  Wiltm  my  sonne  my  tenement  which  my  father  dwelt  in,  with  all  the  free  lands  belonging, 
and  my  free  land  wcb  I  bowght  of  John  Buck,  and  meadows  bowght  of  Wiftm  Betts,  Excepte 
one  close  called  Dewlande  and  a  lytle  meadowe  at  Norfilde  medowe.  Vnto  Wilhn  my  sonne  my 
tenement  called  Swanes,  wth  a  lytle  medowe  at  Dewe  Bridge  and  my  close  called  Bromefilde 
and  the  close  called  Stanard’s  close,  [also]  my  tenemente  called  Tothill  woh  I  bowght  of  Jeffreye 
Egmore,  excepte  one  close  called  the  Wet  stuble,  with  all  the  londes,  pastures,  meadowes 

and  feedings,  and  the  londes  belonging  to  the  Manor  of  Sorells,  and  excepte  the  house 

and  medowe  called  Tudnams  and  two  acres  being  in  Horse  Crofte  wch  I  bowght  of 

Edwarde  Barker.  I  bequeth  vnto  Henrye  my  sonne  my  tenemet  that  I  bowght  of  Mr 
Wright  and  all  the  londs  bowght  of  Edward  Berker,  [also]  Tudnams  and  my  close  called 

Maeriefelde,  and  my  copie  lond  cawlled  Crunpit,  my  close  called  Dewlande,  my  tenemente 
called  Trusses,  my  close  called  Great  Sholde  in  Stowe,  my  tenement  at  Dagworth  and  my  close 
called  the  Wete  Stuble,  contayninge  xiiij  acres.  Also  to  Henrie  my  sone  [I  give]  my  annuitie 


368 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


wch  I  have  owt  of  Harleston  Hawle,  and  all  the  copie  holde  of  the  saide  Manor  vnbequethed, 
to  discharge  that  obligacon  wjU  I  bownde  at  his  manage  to  John  Keble,  to  th’use  of  Henrie 
and  Anne  his  wieffe.  The  same  Henrie  shall  paye  vnto  Martha  my  wieff  tene  shillings  evy 
yeare  for  tearme  of  her  lief.  My  tehte  in  Wulpit  bowght  of  John  Wallar,  my  medowe  bowght 
of  Boxe  of  Pakenham,  a  lytle  medowe,  late  Robert  Hynnes,  my  tenemete  bowght  of  Roger  Crowe 
of  Lanham,  also  my  londs  in  Drynckston,  some  tyme  James  Thons,  to  be  leaten  by  my  executors 

tearme  for  tearme  of  ray  wief’s  lief.  To  Stephen  Humfrye,  my  sone  in  lawe,  all  my  londs  in 

Drynckeston,  he  to  paye  six  score  powndes  to  my  executor  after  my  wief’s  decease — That  is  for 
to  ■  saye  fortie  powndes  to  discharge  Margaret  Cotton  of  hir  father’s  legasye  and  the  Residue 
[later  on].  Vnto  Joane  my  daughter  thyrtye  powndes,  and  to  Roger  Grome  my  sone  in  law 
fyve  powndes.  Tenementes  in  Wolpete  with  londes  and  pastors  to  Harye  my  sone.  I  bequeathe 
Wittme  my  sone  my  tenement  called  Mores,  and  Lytell  Shordes  for  euer.  To  Harrye  my  sonne, 
my  lyttell  medowe  lyinge  by  Norfyld  medowe,  vnder  this  conditione  wrightine,  that  he  discharge 

Wittm  my  sone  ifc  his  heiers  of  fower  rente  capons  payinge  to  the  Maner  of  Halstone  Haulle. 

To  Rycharde  Mynes  my  godsone  xiij8  iiijd.  To  Wittm  my  sone  my  major  and  fower  syluer 
spones  whiche  came  from  Haulye.  To  Harrye  my  sonne  my  goblette  of  syluer  and  gylte  wth  a 
keuor  of  syluer  and  gylte  and  fower  syluer  spones,  the  whiche  goblett  and  spones  wer  my 
wyfes.  To  Martha  my  wyfe  the  plate  and  monyes  and  housoulde  stufe  I  am  bound  by  obligacon 
to  leave  hir.  To  Martha  my  wyfe  syxe  neate — she  to  discharge  my  executors  for  Martha  Grome, 
the  daughter  of  George  Grome,  of  the  gyfte  my  wyfe  gaue  hir.  Certain  hanginges,  leades,  horse 

mell,  and  sutche  lyke  stuffe  of  housolde  to  my  wyfe  and  after  hir  decease  to  remaine  vnto 

Roger  Grome  and  to  Dorothy  his  wyfe.  To  the  said  Roger,  my  sone  in  lawe,  the  fyve  poundes 

he  is  bounde  to  paye  me  for  Scabes  crofte.  To  Martha  my  wyfe  my  bay  geldinge  here  at 

whome.  Vnto  Olypher  Grome  my  bollokes  here  at  home.  Vnto  Roger  Grome  my  sone  in  lawe 
and  Dorithye  his  wyfe  my  Mustor  quernes  at  Hawley  and  pte  of  y®  pewter  and  brasse 
vnbequethed  y1  came  frome  Hawley.  Things  vnbequeathed  to  my  executors  to  fulfill  this  my  last 
will,  my  father’s  will  and  John  Grome’s  will  and  to  pay  my  debtes— Whome  I  ordaine  and 
chose,  in  the  name  of  God,  Wittm  my  sonne  and  Henry  my  sonne,  yl  they  wolde  do  for  me 
as  they  wolde  I  sholde  do  for  them.  These  witnesses  vnder  written — Martine  Nutman,  Henry 
Mvskett  of  Hawlye,  Olyuer  Grome  cum  alijs. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Bell,”  fo.  225. 


Will  of  Robert  ^ibbes,  1581. 

Robert  Sibbs  of  Coneyweston  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  28th  Jany  in  the  24th  yeare  of 
Q.  Elizabeth.  I  give  unto  Katherine  my  daughter,  my  Manor  called  Ladie’s  in  Rocklande,  in 
the  Countie  of  Norfolke ;  also  my  messuages  and  landes  in  Coneyweston,  Barningham,  Weston 
and  Hepworth  in  Suffolke.  To  Elizabeth  Muskett  my  daughter  xii1  yerely  during  her  life,  to  be 
paid  quarterly.  Unto  Robert  Muskett,  William  Muskett  and  Simon  Muskett,  my  saide  daughter’s 
sonnes,  to  each  xxh  after  their  mother’s  decease.  To  every  of  my  sister  Weniffe’s  children  xx8 
yerelie.  To  William  Vincent’s  children.  All  the  rest  of  my  goodes  I  give  to  Katherine  Sibbs 
my  daughter,  whom  with  the  said  William  Vincent  I  appoynte  my  Executors.  Witnesses,  John 
Vincent  and  Leonard  Sergeant. 


Arch.  8udb.  Liber  “  Browne,”  fo.  296. 


MUSKKTT  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


369 


Robertus  Sibbs  dum  vixit  de  Coniweston  in  Com  Suff  ab  intestat  nup  decessit.  Nono  die 
mensis  Feb.  1581,  coin  Lrae  administrat  bonor  dicti  defuncti  direct  Elizabethe  vxori  Wiiimi 
Muskett  et  Katherine  Sibbs,  filiabus  dicti  defuncti.  In  psona  Wiiimi  Muskett  jurat. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Book  of  Administrations,  1577-1593,  fo.  36. 

Administraco  bonoru  «fec.  Robti  Sybbes  nup  de  Conyweston  defunct,  commissa  fuit  xvii0 
die  mensis  Sept  1594  Robto  Muskett  filio  et  ad  Elizabethse  Sybbes  ats  Muskett  filie  et  ad 
dicti  defuncti,  non  administrat  per  Katherinam  Sybbes. 

Ibid.,  fob  200. 

The  collateral  descendants  of  Dr.  Richard  Sibbes,  the  eminent  puritan  divine  who  re-edified 
•  St.  Katherine’s  College,  Cambridge,  entered  a  pedigree  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664,  but 
no  Grant  of  Arms  is  recorded. 


5® ill  of  SBtlltam  jitnskett,  1594. 

William  Muskett  of  Haughley,  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  25th  May  1594,  leaves  his  soul 
to  God  the  Father,  Son  and  Holy  Spirit.  To  the  poor  of  Haughley  ten  pounds  to  be  put  to 
interest,  so  that  the  stock  be  not  diminished  but  for  ever  remain.  Alice  his  wife  to  inhabit 
his  freehold  tenement  called  Moares,  with  its  pastures,  for  life.  To  William  Muskett  his  eldest 
son  his  mansion  house  with  its  lands,  except  five  acres  which  he  bequeaths  to  William  Muskett 
his  grandson,  son  of  the  said  William.  Also  lands  and  pastures  called  Mansuers,  Merefield, 

Moorebridge  meadows,  Stannerds  close  and  Denbridge  meadow,  and  the  messuage  called  Moares, 
on  his  wife’s  decease.  To  Richard  Muskett,  his  son,  his  tenement  called  Tothyll,  with  its  lands, 
orchards,  woods  and  underwoods.  To  Henry  Muskett,  his  son,  his  tenement  in  Barton  and  his 
meadows  there.  To  Symon  Muskett,  his  son,  all  bonds,  i&c.,  he  to  pay  all  debts  except  four 
hundred  pounds  which  was  for  the  warranty  of  Gallowfield  and  twenty  two  pounds  which  he 
and  his  cousin,  George  Thresher  of  Rattlesden,  owed  to  Mr  Jenycks  of  Woolpit.  To  John 
Muskett,  his  son,  Cookstolefield  and  Gallowfield,  together  containing  fifty  acres.  To  Thomas 

Auger,  son  of  Alice  his  wife.  To  William  Muskett,  his  eldest  son,  a  cauldron,  the  great  table 
in  the  hall,  his  corslett  and  other  arms.  The  rest  of  his  goods  to  be  divided  equally  among 

his  other  children — but  Symon  to  have  money  in  lieu  of  his  share  of  the  household  stuff. 

William  and  John  Muskett,  his  sons,  to  be  executors.  Probate,  August  1595. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Blomefield,”  fo.  60b. 

The  testator’s  first  wife  was  Joan,  daughter  of  Simon  Bradstreet  of  Gislingham,  one  of 
the  three  wealthy  yeomen  of  the  name  who  were  assessed  for  the  Suffolk  Subsidy  of  1543 

(35  H.  8).  It  is  all  but  proven  that  Simon  Bradstreet,  Rector  of  Hinderclav  in  Suffolk,  and 
afterwards  of  Horbling  in  Lincolnshire,  the  father  of  Simon  Bradstreet,  Governor  of  Massachusetts, 

was  of  this  family.  Simon  Muskett  of  Gray’s  Inn,  the  testator’s  son,  is  known  to  have  be¬ 
friended  one  at  least  of  the  many  Bradstreets  who  took  priests  orders  in  the  sixteenth  and 

seventeenth  centuries. 

2  x 


370 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Inquisition  on  tlu>  btat\)  of  lUnrn  Jltustatt,  1595. 

Inquisico  capt  apud  Stowmkett  in  Corn  Suff  quinto  die  Septembris  anno  Regni  dne  n?e 
Elizabeth  trieesimo  septimo  coram  Simoi  Muskett  A?,  Escaeto?  dne  Regine,  ad  'inquirend  post 

mortem  Henrici  Muskett  gen  p  sacrfn  Thome  Miller  ats  Barnard,  Wiftmi  Deverris,  Ac.  Qui 
dicunt  quod  pdcus  Henricus  Muskett,  diu  ante  obitum  fuit  seitus  de  Ma3io  de  Harleston  et  in 
vno  messuagio  vocat  Denys  cum  diusis  pecijs  ter?  in  Hawley.  Et  de  vno  messuagio,  vno  gardino  et 
vno  crofto  vocat  Freton  in  Harleston,  ac  de  viginti  ac?  ter?  in  Shetland  et  Harleston  et  de  ter? 
in  Hawley,  ac  de  vno  clauso  pastu?  in  Olde  Newton,  et  de  vno  mesuagio  in  Wetherden. 
Ac  de  vno  bosco  vocat  Shortes  Grove  in  Stowmarkett.  Et  sic  seit  p  cartam  suam  geren. 
dat  xxv°  die  Januarij  anno  regni  dee  Regine  nunc  trieesimo  septimo  feoffavitt  Ricm 

Muskett  film  suii  seniorem  bend  et  tenend  pfat  Rico  Muskett  et  heredibj  imppm.  Et  pdcus 
Henricus  Muskett  postea  terciodecimo  die  Aprilis  anno  Regni  dee  dne  Regine  nunc  trieesimo 

septimo  supradeo  obijt.  Et  quod  Ricus  Muskett  est  filius  et  heres  pdei  Henrici  Muskett 

et  tempore  mortis  jfdci  Henrici  etatis  quadragint  anno^  et  amplius.  Ma3m  de  Harleston 

tenebatur  de  dna  Regina  nunc  in  capite  p  serviciu  militare.  Et  valet  clare  p  ann  quinque 
libras.  Mesuagiu  in  Hawley  &c.  tenebantur  de  Edwardo  Sulyard  Ar.  vt  de  maSio  suo  de  Hawley. 
Clawsum  in  Old  Newton  tenebatur  de  Manerio  de  Dagworth  [&c.]. 

Henry  Muskett  purchased  the  Manor  of  Harleston  Parva  in  1546.  (Originalia,  88  H.  8, 
1,  83).  Anne  Keble,  his  first  wife,  was  doubtless  one  of  the  Stowmarket  family.  ( Suffolk  Manorial 
Families ,  vol.  ii,  227).  Joane  Sharpe,  his  second  wife,  a  connection  of  the  Mild  mays,  was  cousin 
german  to  Adam  Winthrop,  who  frequently  named  her  in  his  Diary  and  visited  her  in  her  last 
illness.  See  the  Life  and  Letters  of  his  son,  John  Winthrop,  Governor  of  the  Massachusetts 
Bay  Colony,  vol.  i,  410.  She  was  buried  at  Wetherden,  20th  July,  1597.  Her  pedigree  will  be- 
found  at  page  41  of  the  first  volume  of  this  work. 


SEtll  of  HiclmrD  ttonke,  1605. 

The  tenth  daye  of  January,  1605,  I  Richard  Coocke,  sonne  of  Richard  Coocke,  late  of 
Hunston  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  make  this  my  last  will.  I  give  vnto  Elizabeth  Muskett, 
my  lovinge  mother,  the  silver  spoones  [etc.]  given  me  by  my  grandmother  Bloyse,  desireing  my 
ffather  in  lawe,  John  Muskett,  not  to  take  from  her  any  of  the  same.  To  said  ffather  in  lawe 
my  silver  tunne.  To  the  poore  of  Walsham,  Badwelash,  Hunston,  Stowlangtoft,  and  Norton. 
My  ffreinds,  Mr  John  Masham  of  Badwelash  and  Mr  Robert  Coocke  the  elder  of  Langham.  to 
be  executors.  I  give  my  lands  called  Shirwins  in  Badwelash  [etc.]  to  my  mother  for  life,  and 
after  her  decease  to  John  Muskett,  my  halfe  brother,  and  his  heyres  for  ever.  My  cosen 
Samon  of  Mendlesm,  and  my  kinsmen  John  Raynolds  of  Woolpet  Richard  Raynolds  of  Saffron 
Walden,  Anthony  Cage  of  Cambridge,  and  Robert  Coocke  of  Langham,  iunior.  Probat  v°  die 
Maij  1606  Robto  Cooke  vni  executoru.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  Strutt  (1606-8),  fo.  11. 

In  February,  1586,  John  Muskett  of  Haughley  had  licence  to  marry  Elizabeth  Cooke, 
widow,  of  Hunston,  the  testator’s  mother.  Administration  Book,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1577-93.  It  was 
directed  to  the  Rector  of  Coney weston.  John  Muskett,  the  testator’s  half  brother,  was  after¬ 
wards  of  Stowlangtoft  in  Suffolk  and  Bressingham  in  Norfolk. 


MUSKETT  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


371 


Mill  nf  JKargarrt  ®ack,  1607. 

I  Margarett  Cock  of  Withersfeild,  in  the  County  of  Suff :  widow,  the  13th  day  of  October, 
1607,  doe  make  this  my  last  will  and  testament.  I  giue  vnto  Mary  Muskett,  my  daughter, 
twentie  poundes  vpon  condicon  that  that  she  paie  vnto  my  daughter’s  sonne,  Giles  Allington, 
xa  euy  halfe  yeare.  Vnto  Giles  Allington,  my  daughter’s  sonne,  a  gold  ringe  inamelld  wch  is  in 
my  daughter  Muskett’s  hand,  to  be  deliued  at  his  age  of  twentie  yeares.  Vnto  Henry  Muskett, 
my  daughter’s  sonne,  a  silu  bowle.  Vnto  Grace  Browne  my  greene  gowne,  and  a  wheele,  and  a 
cofer.  Vnto  Mary  my  daughter  all  moveables  vnbequeathed.  I  ordaine  my  trusty  executors 
Richard  Muskett,  my  sonne,  and  Mary,  my  daughter.  Probatum  tricesimo  die  Novemb  1617 
juramento  Rici  Muskett  vni  executo^.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “Strutt,”  fo.  136. 

The  testatrix  was  daughter  of  John  Taylor  of  Lidgate  and  widow  of  William  Cock,  of 
Withersfield  in  Suffolk.  Her  daughter  Muskett’s  marriage  settlement,  dated  5  Jan.  25th  Elizabeth, 
is  entered  upon  the  Close  Rolls  of  that  year.  Susan,  her  other  daughter,  married  Giles  Allington  of 
Westley,  co  Cambridge  (a  grandson  of  “Old  Sir  Giles”),  who  made  will,  P.C.C.  37  Harrington, 
24th  April  1592.  <  For  her  pedigree  see  Suffolk  Manorial  Families,  vol.  i,  p.  248. 


JEtuskett  t.  (Hotksriige,  ttbait.  flror.  juries  £L 

Jan.  2d  1613.  John  Muskett  of  Stow  Langtoft,  co.  Suffolk,  gentleman,  and  Dorothie,  his 
wife,  sole  daughter  and  heire  of  George  Groome,  deceased  (who  was  sonne  and  heire  of  Roger 
Groome,  late  of  Rattlesden),  shew  that  the  said  Roger,  in  consideration  of  a  marriage,  about 
xxij  yeares  last  past,  between  the  said  George  and  Grace  Poole,  your  Oratrix’  mother,  conveyed 
a  messuage  and  lands  in  Felsham  to  the  said  George  and  Grace  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies ; 

and  from  that  time  forward  the  said  George  Groome  tooke  the  rents  and  pi’ofitts  thereof.  He 

died  about  xxi  yeares  sythens,  having  issue  your  Oratrix  Dorothie,  and  Grace  his  widow  took 
the  rents,  dying  about  xx  yeares  since,  when  the  Felsham  messuage  descended  to  your  Oratrix 
Dorothie,  as  their  sole  daughter  and  heire  in  tayle.  She,  being  about  the  age  of  haulf  a  yeare, 
was  brought  up  by  Roger  Groome,  her  grandfather,  who  had  the  deedes  aud  evidences  con¬ 
cerning  the  messuage.  When  verye  aged  Roger  did  take  to  wyffe  one  Dorothy  Leeche,  a  younge 
maide,  and  had  a  son  by  her.  He  was  then  seised  of  messuages  and  lands  in  Yardelye,  co. 

Essex,  and  Rattlesden  and  Elmswell,  co.  Suffolk.  He  made  Dorothie  Leech  a  joynture  for  life 

of  the  Rattlesden  messuage  and  dyed  about  xij  yeares  sithens.  Dorothie,  his  widow,  who  has 
since  taken  to  husband  one  George  Cocksedge,  tooke  Letters  of  Administration  and  did  get  into 
her  hands  all  the  deeds  and  wrytinges  concerning  the  aforesaid  messuages,  and  refuseth  to 
deliver  them  to  your  Orators.  They  seek  to  defraude  yor  Orators  of  the  lands  and  tenementes 
in  Suffolk,  and  to  entytle  John  Groome,  the  infant  sonne,  to  the  same :  pretending  that  Roger 
Groome,  about  a  quarter  of  an  hower  before  his  death,  did  make  a  deed  of  feoffement,  to  the 
use  of  his  will  made  not  haulfe  an  hower  before,  and  did  give  all  his  lands  to  the  said  John 
Groome,  his  child ;  endeavouring  to  disinherit  your  Orators. 

In  the  very  interesting  depositions  which  follow,  it  is  stated  that  Grace  Poole  and  John 
Muskett  were  both  near  of  kin  to  Simon  Muskett,  Counsellor  at  law,  who  conducted  the  case 
for  the  Plaintiffs.  See  also  “  Muskett  contra  Groome,”  Chan.  Proc.,  series  ii. 


2  X2 


372 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


The  following  entries  in  the  Rattlesden  Parish  Registers  throw  much  light  upon  this  story.. 
George,  the  sonne  of  Roger  Grome,  was  baptized  8  Feb.  1565.  George  Grome  and  Grace  Poole- 
were  married  3  Sept.  1591.  George  Grome,  the  sonne  of  Roger  Grome,  buried  22  Sept.  1592. 
Roger  Grome  and  Dorethy  Leache  maried  27  Nov.  1598.  John  Grome,  the  sonne  of  Roger- 
and  Dorithe  his  wife,  baptized  3  April  1600.  Roger  Grome  sen  Christiauo  Fidelis  buryed. 
8  May  1602. 


Administration  of  Untrn  iitnskctt,  1 613* 

Admoii  bonorum  Henrici  Muskett  nuper  de  Fretton,  obient  intestat,  comiss  Roberto  Brende 
et  Catherine  Brende  eius  uxor,  nuper  relc  dicti  defuncti,  xxiv0  die  Aprilis  1613. 

By  Indenture  dated  20th  June,  39th  Elizth.,  Henry  Muskett  of  Great  Dunham,  co. 
Norfolk,  gent.,  bought  two  messuages  in  Fritton,  with  the  lands,  etc.,  belonging,  of  Robert  Read, 
son  and  heir  of  Edmund  Read,  late  of  Hempnall.  Close  Roll,  39th  Elizth.,  prima  pars.  See 
also  Norfolk  Fines,  Mich.  39th  and  40th  Elizth. 

Katherine,  daughter  of  Hamond  Claxton,  Esq.,  of  Norwich,  married,  first,  Nicholas  Thurston, 
being  his  widow  in  June  1592,  when  her  father  made  his  will  ( Cur .  Ep.  Norw.).  Henry 
Muskett  was  her  second  husband,  and  Robert  Brend  her  third.  All  three  marriages  are  recorded 
in  the  Claxton  pedigree,  Harl.  MS.  155. 


Jliujmstttmt  on  ftnitl)  of  Ifimtn  JRuskctt,  1620. 

By  an  Inquisition  taken  at  Eye,  4th  January,  18th  James  I,  after  the  death  of  Henry 
Muskett,  late  of  Bury  St  Edmunds,  gent.,  it  was  found  that  Richard  Muskett,  gent.,  father  of 
the  said  Henry,  was  seized  4th  Dec.  13th  James  I  [1615],  of  messuages  and  lands  in  Harleston, 
Haughley,  and  Dagworth,  and  of  closes,  some  containing  from  fifteen  to  twenty  acres,  called 
Bromefield,  Horse  Close,  the  Fowerteen  Acre  Close,  Dewlands,  Murtons,  Sunpitts,  Mearefield,  and 
Sheepcolegreene.  So  seized,  it  was  covenanted  and  agreed,  by  a  tripartite  indenture,  dated 
4th  Decr,  13tb  James  I,  between  the  said  Richard  Muskett  of  the  first  part,  Sir  Anthony 
Browne,  of  Elsing.  co.  Norfolk,  K1,  Giles  Allington,  of  Pelham,  co.  Herts,  Esqr,  and  Nicholas 
Bell,  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s,  gent.,  of  the  second  part,  and  the  said  Henry  Muskett,  second  son 
of  the  said  Richard,  and  Mary  Bury,  singlewoman,  one  of  the  daughters  and  coheirs  of  Richard 
Bury,  late  of  Worlingham,  near  Beccles,  gent.,  deceased,  of  the  third  part,  that  the  said 
Richard  Muskett,  in  consideration  of  a  marriage  to  be  solemnized  between  the  said  Henry 
Muskett  and  Mary  Bury,  and  for  a  competent  jointure  for  the  said  Mary,  should  assure  the  foresaid 
messuages  and  lands  to  the  use  of  the  said  Henry  and  the  heirs  of  their  bodies.  On  the  first 
of  February  following  the  marriage  was  solemnized  at  Elsing  aforesaid,  and  the  said  Henry  and 
Mary  became  seized  of  the  aforenamed  lands.  Afterwards,  on  the  7th  of  February,  17th  James  I, 
Henry  Muskett  died  at  Bury  St.  Edmund’s.  Anne  Muskett,  his  daughter  and  sole  heir,  was  then 
of  the  age  of  two  years,  five  months  and  twenty-four  days.  Richard  Muskett,  his  father,  and  Mary, 
his  widow,  were  still  living.  Murtons  and  divers  of  the  lands  specified  were  held  of  the  King 
in  capite  for  military  service.  Inq.  post  mortem,  18tb  James  I. 


MUSKETT  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


373 


ffiltil  nf  KtcbarD  iiluskctt,  1 6^26* 

The  twentieth  day  of  October,  1626,  I,  Richard  Muskett  of  Bury  St.  Edmond,  gent., 
the  vnprofitable  servant  of  God,  beinge  stricken  into  yeares,  that  is  to  say,  of  the  age  of 
eighty  yeares  &  vpwards,  weake  in  body  but  stronge  in  minde  &  in  pfect  health,  doe  declare 
this  my  last  will.  And  first  I  doe  with  a  free  hart  render  and  give  againe  into  the  hand  of  my 
Creator  my  spirritt,  which  he  of  his  fatherly  goodnesse  gave  me,  nothinge  doubtinge  but  for 
his  infinite  mercies  he  will  receive  my  soule  into  his  glory  ck  place  it  in  the  company  of  the 
heavenly  Angells  &  blessed  saints.  And  as  toucheinge  my  body,  with  a  good  will  <k  free  hart 
I  give  it  over  to  be  buried  within  the  pish  church  of  Harlston,  neere  vnto  the  Chancell  dore. 
1  give  vnto  Richard  Muskett,  my  nephewe  &  grandchild,  all  my  lands  &  tenements  &  to  his 
heires  for  ever;  provided  that  Mary,  nowe  my  loveinge  wife,  shall  holde  &  enioy  them  during 
the  minoritie  of  the  said  Richard. 

And  because  I  shall  be  much  condempned  of  the  world  for  my  vnnaturall  dealinge  with 
my  said  nephewe  and  grand  child,  Richard  Muskett,  the  sonne  of  Thomas  Muskett  (which 

Thomas  Muskett  was  my  eldest  sonne,  but  is  now  deceased),  to  give  and  assure  a  great  part 
of  my  lands  vnto  Anne  Muskett,  the  daughter  of  Henry  Muskett,  ray  youngest  sonne,  also 
deceased ;  for  the  said  Richard  Muskett,  my  grandchild,  is  also  my  next  heire  at  the  Corhon 
Lawe ;  I  do  pronounce  and  declare  to  God  and  the  world  that  my  meaninge  never  was  that 
the  said  Anne  Muskett  should  ever  have  one  foote  of  lande,  but  that  her  portion  should  be 

in  money.  I  made  no  conveyance  but  reserved  my  lands  to  my  heires  males.  But  I  must 

cotifesse  my  imbecillitie  in  worldly  affaires  was  overpowered  by  Sr  Antbony  Browne ;  and  one 
Mr.  Rockett,  a  scrivener,  being  of  counsell  with  the  friends  of  the  said  Anne  Muskett,  did, 
contrary  to  my  instructions,  make  the  conveyance  in  such  manner  that  the  lands  assured  in 
joynture  vnto  the  mother  of  the  said  Anne  [should]  descend  to  the  heirs  female  as  well  as  to- 
the  heires  male  And  so  by  their  vndirect  dealing  [they]  have  beguiled  me  of  more  land  than  is 
fittinge  for  the  portion  for  an  heire  female,  my  ratike,  estate  and  liveinge  considered. 

I  give  vnto  Mary,  my  wife,  all  my  house,  wherein  I  nowe  dwell,  in  Bury  St.  Edmond’s, 
with  my  furniture,  plate,  jewells,  &c.,  and  appoint  her  to  be  the  sole  executrix  of  this  will. 
Probate  29th  July  1628. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Mason  ” 

It  is  but  fair  to  state  that  Mary  Bury,  who  became  the  wife  of  the  testator’s  second 

son,  had  a  good  inheritance  in  lands,  which  her  friends  doubtless  considered  should  be  met  by- 
similar  settlements  on  her  husband’s  side. 


Chiton  Jttusketi  nf  ®  ray's  Inn,  1560 — 1637- 

Simon  Muskett,  the  fourth  son  of  William  Muskett  of  Haughley  and  Joan  Bradstreet,. 
his  wife,  entered  Gray’s  Inn  in  February  1583,  and  was  in  due  time  called  to  the  bar.  He 
became  an  able  lawyer,  and  was  much  consulted  by  Suffolk  litigants.  His  signature  is  appended 
to  innumerable  documents  of  the  reigns  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  James  I,  and  Charles  I,  now  at 
the  Record  Office.  He  was  Escheator  for  Suffolk  in  1595  ;  a  Commissioner  for  the  removal  of 


374 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


illegal  buildings,  the  prevention  of  overcrowding,  and  the  enforcement  of  sanitary  measures  in 
London  in  1626  ( Fcedera  Rymeri) ;  and  a  Justice  of  the  Peace  for  Middlesex  in  1634.  In  1635 
he  compounded  for  knighthood  ( Calendar ,  State  Papers,  Domestic,  p.  531).  His  Chancery  Bills 
and  Answers,  written  in  the  matchless  English  of  the  days  of  Bacon  and  Shakespeare,  are 
clear,  incisive,  and  eminently  readable.  His  Will  of  1636  was  proved  in  the  Prerogative  Court 
of  Canterbury,  P.C.C.  115  Pile. 

By  his  first  wife,  Mary,  sister  of  Sir  Robert  Newdigate,  of  Hawnes  in  Bedfordshire,  who 
died  in  1613  and  was  buried  in  St.  Andrew’s,  Holborn,  he  had  four  children,  of  whom  only 
one  daughter  survived  him.  Simon,  his  second  son,  was  baptized  at  West  Stow,  near  Bury  St. 
Edmunds,  15th  September  1594,  when  he  was  residing  at  the  Hall,  whose  picturesque  gate 
house,  still  extant,  is  described,  with  illustrations,  in  the  admirable  volume  of  West  Stow 
Registers,  edited  by  the  Rev  Sydenham  H.  A.  Hervey.  He  married  secondly,  in  1615,  Beatrix, 
widow  of  Sir  Thomas  Eden  of  Sudbury  and  lady  of  the  Manor  of  Barnes  in  Whitechapel, 
which  had  been  settled  upon  her  by  Thomas  Goodman,  Esq.,  her  first  husband.  She  also  pre¬ 
deceased  him,  in  1623,  and  was  buried  in  the  church  of  St.  Botolph’s,  Aldgate,  London.  One  of 
her  daughters,  .  .  .  Goodman,  became  the  wife  of  Walter  Halliley  of  Hackney,  who  has  given 
us  an  account  of  his  mother-in-law’s  wardrobe,  which  will  interest  alike  the  antiquary  and  the 
student  of  human  nature.  “  Dame  Beatrice  beinge  in  wante  of  cloathes  and  other  necessaries 
for  a  gentlewoman  of  her  rancke  and  ffashion,  Orators  wife  deliued  vnto  [her]  one  Taffitye 
gowne  laied  with  silver  lace,  at  the  price  of  sixe  poundes ;  one  stuffe  petticoate  at  the  price 
of  ffortye  shillinges  ;  one  hatbond  of  gold  buttons  at  the  price  of  serfven  poundes ;  one  Taffatye 
cloake  lyned  cleane  through  with  Miniver  furre  at  the  price  of  sixe  poundes ;  one  rydinge 
suite  worth  three  poundes ;  one  other  cloake  of  Taffatye  lyned  with  silke  shagge  at  the  price 
of  three  poundes ;  certen  Lynnen,  as  sheetes,  pillowbeeres,  cushion  cloathes  and  table  cloathes, 
to  the  value  of  seaven  poundes ;  and  one  longe  cushion  of  blawe  satten  imbroadered  with  sprede 
eagles  of  golde  at  the  price  of  three  poundes.”  ( Halliley  contra  Muskett,  James  I,  B.  &  A. 
H.  18,  61,  13th  Nov.  1623.) 

In  his  earlier  days  Simon  Muskett  resided  mostly  at  Gray’s  Inn  or  Bury  St.  Edmund’s, 
and  later  on  at  Clerkenwell,  then  a  fashionable  suburb.  After  his  second  marriage  he  lived  at 
his  wife’s  Manor  in  Whitechapel,  as  had  her  other  husbands  before  him.  Robert  Muskett,  his 
eldest  son,  entered  Gray’s  Inn  in  1609,  proceeding  by  and  by  to  Christ’s  College,  Cambridge. 
We  find  his  signature  to  a  Chancery  Bill,  James  I,  B.  &  A.,  S.  39,  38.  But  he  died  young, 
as  did  his  brothers  Simon  and  John.  Mary,  the  daughter,  her  father’s  only  surviving  child, 
married  Thomas  Smallwood  of  Selford  and  had  numerous  descendants,  one  of  whom  entered  a 
pedigree  in  the  Chester  Visitation  of  1664,  which  is  given  verbatim,  with  many  other  details, 
in  Earwaker’s  History  of  East  Cheshire,  vol.  ii,  336. 


fiicbarD  Jflusbtt,  .^ale  of  ifarkston  lait&s,  164L 

Muskett  et  Dickenson. — This  Indenture  made  24th  July  in  the  16th  year  of  King 
Charles,  between  Richard  Muskett,  of  Shaddingfield,  co.  Suff :  gent :  of  the  one  part,  and  J ohn 
Dickenson,  of  Bury  St.  Edmund’s,  gent :  and  Roger  Dickenson,  sonne  and  heire  apparent  of 


MUSKETT  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


375 


the  said  John,  on  the  other  part,  witnesseth  that  the  said  Richard  Muskett  in  consideration 
of  eight  hundred,  six  score  and  ten  pounds  hath  sold  unto  said  John  &  Roger  that  messuage, 
sometimes  Mutton’s,  and  after  that  of  Simon  Muskett,  Esqr,  being  in  Harleston  in  Suffolke,  and 
that  close  called  Bromefield  in  Harleston,  and  that  messuage  with  the  Smithe’s  Shopp  thereupon 
erected  at  Quarries  Crosse  and  other  lands  and  closes  Known  as  Horseclose,  The  Fowertene 
Acre  Close,  Dewlands,  Sunpitts,  Mearefield  and  Murton’s  Close,  in  Haughley  and  Harleston,  and 
the  pasture  known  as  Sheepcotegreen  in  Harleston,  which  premises  the  said  Richard  Muskett 
had  by  descent  from  Ann  Muskett,  daur  heire  of  Henry  Muskett,  gent :  deceased.  Et 
Memorandum  quod  xxvii°  die  Julij  anno  suptoscript  [ifat  Ricus  Muskett  gen  venit  coram  dco 
dni  Rege  in  Cancellar  sua  et  recognavit  Indenturam  [ifcc.]. 

Indenture,  16th  Cha*  I.  Close  Rolls. 


Will  of  loljtt  Jfhtskett,  1649* 

John  Muskett  of  Bressingham,  in  the  Countye  of  North  the  30th  day  of  October  1649. 
I  contend  my  soule  into  the  mercifull  handes  of  God  my  maker,  and  vnto  Jesus  Christ,  my 
sweete  Saviour  and  Redeemer ;  through  whose  most  bitter  death  and  passion  I  steadfastly  beleeve 
to  receive  remission  of  all  my  sins.  I  bequeath  vnto  Mary,  my  welbeloved  wife,  all  my  messuages, 

landes  and  tenements  in  Badwell  Ashe  in  the  Countye  of  Suff.  I  also  give  [her]  all  myne 

implements  and  household  stuffe,  which  were  hers  before  my  marriage  with  her.  I  give  her  more 
my  silver  drinkinge  Cupp  and  fortye  poundes.  These  legacies  and  bequests  shalbe  in  full  recom¬ 
pense  of  dower,  she  to  release  vnto  Charles  Muskett  my  sonne  all  such  title  and  interest  of 
dower  as  shee  may  hereafter  claime.  Vnto  John  Muskett,  myne  eldest  sonne,  the  yearelie  surhe- 
of  tenne  poundes  out  of  my  landes  devised  to  Charles  my  sonne.  Vnto  the  said  John  my 

messuages  in  Badwell  Ash,  on  the  decease  of  the  said  Marie  my  wife.  Vnto  Charles  Muskett,. 
my  sonne  all  my  landes  [etc.]  in  the  Countye  of  Norff.  Vnto  John  Blomefeild,  my  grandchilde, 
tenne  poundes  at  his  age  of  sixteene  yeares.  Vnto  Thomas  Williamson,  my  wife’s  sonne  by  her 
former  husband,  and  to  John  Williamson,  his  sonne,  Ringes  to  weare  for  a  remembrance  of  me. 
To  the  poore  of  Bressingham,  North  Lopham,  Farsfield  and  Roydon.  I  bequeath  the  residue  vnto 
the  said  Charles  Muskett,  my  sonne,  whom  I  make  the  Executor  of  this  will,  straightlie  charginge 
him  to  see  the  same  well  and  truely  performed.  Witnesses — Robert  Morse,  George  Rayner, 
Phill.  Morse,  Ro :  Dover,  Juh.  Proved  the  29tb  Nov.  1658  by  the  oath  of  Charles  Muskett,  the 
Executor. 

P.C.C.  657  Wotton. 

Muskett  et  Dickenson. — This  Indenture,  dated  19th  Nov.  in  the  11th  year  of  King 

Charles  [1636],  between  John  Muskett  the  elder  of  Bressingham,  co.  Norfolk,  yeoman,  and  John 
Muskett  the  younger  of  London,  ffishmonger,  of  the  one  part,  and  John  Dickenson  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  gent.,  on  the  other  part,  witnesseth  that  the  said  John  Muskett  the  elder  and 
John  Muskett  the  younger  grant  and  sell  unto  the  said  John  Dickenson  one  meadow  in  Rattlesden, 
co.  Suffolk,  called  Fen  Meadow  or  Fenn  Street,  which  meadow  did  descend  vnto  John  Muskett 
the  younger  by  inheritance,  after  the  death  of  Dorothy  Muskett,  mother  of  the  said  John.. 
Close  Roll,  11th  Cha*  I.  * 


376 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Joint  ^uskctf,  1665* 

The  18th  day  of  February,  in  the  year  of  the  reign  of  our  soverign  Lord,  Charles  the 
Second  the  18th,  and  of  our  Lord  God  1665,  I,  John  Muskett,  of  Haughley,  in  the  County  of 
Suffolk,  gent.,  taken  very  sick  whilst  I  was  in  His  Majesty’s  service  in  the  wars,  yet  of  sound 
mind  and  memory,  do  make  and  ordayne  this  my  last  will  and  testament.  First  and  principally, 
I  commend  my  soul  to  the  protection  of  Almighty  God,  hoping  through  the  death  and  passion 
of  Jesus  Christ,  my  sweet  Saviour  and  Redeemer,  to  be  made  a  partaker  of  life  everlasting. 

As  touching  that  portion  of  worldly  goods  that  God  in  his  mercy  hath  lent  me,  I  dispose  of 
it  as  followeth.  I  devise  unto  my  four  eldest  daughters,  Ester,  Margaret,  Wynefred  and  Hannah, 
my  capital  messuage  called  Bucles  house,  with  the  buildings,  lands,  meadows  and  feeding  grounds 
belonging,  lying  in  Haughley,  Harleston  and  Shelland.  Unto  my  youngest  daughters,  Rachell 

and  Ann,  my  messuage  lately  purchased  of  Thomas  Daynes,  with  the  orchards,  lands,  pastures 
and  feeding  grounds  adjoining,  lying  in  Bacton  and  Cotton,  now  in  the  tenure  of  Thomas 
Studds,  and  my  leasehold  lands  there.  My  goods,  ready  monies  and  personal  estate  I  give  unto 
my  executrix,  towards  the  payment  of  the  legacies  hereafter  named :  that  is  to  say,  thirty  pounds 
apiece  unto  my  four  eldest  daughters,  and  sixty  pounds  apiece  unto  my  youngest  daughters 

Rachell  and  Ann,  to  be  paid  them  at  their  several  ages  of  one  and  twenty  years,  or  their 

respective  days  of  marriage,  which  shall  first  happen  I  bequeath  unto  my  brother,  Barnabie 

Muskett,  of  Colchester,  ten  pounds ;  he  to  deliver  a  general  release  unto  my  wife  and  eldest 
daughters  of  his  pretended  right  unto  my  capital  messuage.  I  nominate  Wynefred,  my  loving 
wife,  sole  executrix,  and  give  her  the  overplus  of  my  principal  estate  and  [certain]  rents  for 
the  education  and  bringing  up  of  my  younger  daughters  according  their  degree  and  quality. 

I  charge  all  my  daughters  to  be  dutiful  and  obedient  to  their  mother,  especially  in  the  matter 
of  their  marriage.  I  appoynt  my  well  beloved  friend,  Mr.  Thomas  Blomfield  of  Buxhall,  to  be 

supervisor  of  this  will,  and  I  leave  him  for  his  paynes  ten  pounds  Thus,  waiting  the  pleasure 

of  Almighty  God  I  end  this  will  and  sett  thereto  my  hand  and  seale  in  the  presence  of  these 
witnesses — Thomas  Blomfield  Senr,  Robert  Devereaux,  William  Harrison  Senr,  Thomas  Harrison, 
and  others.  Probate  10th  April  1667.  Cur.  Ep.  Norwic. 

The  testator  and  Barnaby  Muskett,  his  brother,  would  seem  to  have  been  sons  of  Henry 
Muskett,  who  married  at  Haughley,  4th  February  1599,  Rebecca,  sister  of  Barnaby  Gibson  of 
that  parish,  and  niece  and  devisee  of  Barnaby  Gibson  of  Stonham,  1594,  P.C.C.  28  Scott. 


Mill  of  JUrljarii  Jituskett,  1676, 

The  fifth  day  of  May,  1676,  I  Richard  Muskett  of  Methwold,  in  the  County  of  Norfolke, 
clerke,  being  somewhat  distempered  in  myne  head  but  sound  in  body  and  mind,  make  this  my 
last  will.  I  give  and  bequeath  to  my  deare  and  best  beloved  wife,  Frances  Muskett,  one  little 
gold  ringe  I  weare  upon  my  finger  [<fcc.].  To  my  daughter  Hannah  Muskett  ais  Bennett  my 
other  golde  ringe  with  a  seale  of  Armes  I  weare.  To  my  sonne  Samuel  Muskett,  living  in  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  five  shillings.  To  my  sonne  Charles  Muskett,  living  at  Mr.  Mariton’s  of  Oxburgh, 
linnen  [<fcc.].  The  residue  of  goods  I  bequeath  to  Frances,  my  wife,  and  Hannah  Muskett  ats 
Bennett,  my  daughter,  living  at  Mr.  Parlett  of  Barnham,  clarke,  whom  I  make  my  executrices. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  Original  Wills,  1678,  No.  186. 


MUSKETT  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


377 


The  testator  was  grandson  and  heir  of  Richard  Muskett  of  Harleston  Parva  in  1627, 
and  cousin  and  heir  of  Anne  Muskett  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds  in  1632.  The  baptism  of  Samuel 
Muskett,  his  eldest  son,  in  May  1640,  is  recorded  in  the  parish  registers  of  Shadingfield.  He 
sold  part  of  his  estate  to  John  Dickenson,  who  had  married  his  uncle’s  widow,  in  1641  {Fine, 
Mich.  16  Chas.),  and  the  remainder  ten  years  later  to  Edward  Wyneve  {Fine,  Fax  ter  1651),  who 
passed  them  on  to  Lady  Penelope  Hervey.  These  she  bequeathed,  in  1660,  together  with  the. 
Manor  of  Harleston,  to  Henry  Gage  Esq.,  her  third  son  {Visitation  of  Suffolk:,  edited  by  Hr.  Howard, 
vol.  ii,  177).  About  this  time  he  seems  to  have  taken  orders,  becoming  curate  of  Northwold  in 
Norfolk  in  1664.  Catherine  his  wife  was  buried  at  Weeting  in  1667  ;  Thomas,  his  son,  at 
Northwold  in  1675  ;  and  he  himself,  on  the  6th  of  October,  1678.  The  one  bequest  in  his  brief 
will,  which  recalls  his  earl}7  prosperity,  is  the  “  golde  ringe  with  a  seale  of  Armes,”  probably  an 
heirloom  inherited  from  his  grandfather. 


SStili  of  ® barks  JKitskett,  1678. 

Charles  Muskett  of  Frenze,  in  the  County  of  Norfolk,  gent.,  the  7th  day  of  September, 
1678.  Unto  Henry  Gibbs  of  Frenze,  my  son  in  law,  three  years  rent  of  the  Lang  Fenns  in 
South  Lopham.  Priscilla,  my  daughter,  his  now  wife.  Unto  Mary,  Thomas  and  Charles  Gibbs, 
my  grandchildren.  Unto  Mary  and  Elizabeth  Watts  my  grandchildren  To  Elizabeth,  the  daughter 
of  John  Blomfield,  of  Farsflield,  gent.  To  John  Muskett,  my  son,  and  his  heirs  all  my  lands  in 
Bardwell,  co.  Suffolk,  and  in  Lopham,  co.  Norfolk,  the  said  three  years  rent  excepted.  I  make  him 
my  executor.  Witnesses  : — Frances  Richards,  John  Womacke,  Thomas  Horneby  and  Robert  Fisher. 
Probate,  21st  Decr  1678  to  John  Muskett,  the  son  named  in  the  will. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norwic.,  Wills  1677,  1678,  fob  128. 


®R:ll  of  Joint  JHustatt,  168$. 

By  his  will  dated  20th  May  1688,  John  Muskett,  of  Botesdale  in  Suffolk,  mercer,  gave  his 
messuages  and  lands  in  Burgate  to  Elizabeth  his  wife  for  life,  and  then  to  Mary  his  daughter. 
To  the  said  Elizabeth  his  wife  he  devised  his  messuages  and  lands  in  Coneyweston,  subject  to 
the  payment  of  an  annuity  of  £12  to  Alice  Muskett  of  Coneyweston,  with  remainder  after  her 
decease  to  the  said  Mary  his  daughter  and  the  heirs  of  her  body,  and  failing  these  to  Henry 
Gibbs  and  Priscilla  his  wife,  testator’s  sister,  for  their  lives.  Said  lands  then  to  be  sold  for  the 
benefit  of  John  Bloinefield  of  Farsfield,  in  Norfolk,  gentleman,  testator’s  cousin.  His  messuages 
and  lands  in  Bressingham  and  South  Lopham  in  Norfolk,  and  in  Ashfield  and  Hepworth  in 
Suffolk,  he  left  to  Elizabeth  Muskett  his  daughter  and  the  heirs  of  her  body,  with  remainder  as 
before  to  Henry  and  Priscilla  Gibbs  and  to  John  Blomefield.  To  Elizabeth  his  daughter  his  silver 
tankard  and  porringer,  and  the  furniture  in  the  hall  chamber.  To  Mary  his  daughter  £500.  To 
Elizabeth  and  Mary  Watts,  his  kinswomen,  to  each  £10.  To  John  Blomefield  son  of  the  said  John 
Blomefield,  John  Breame  son  of  Robert  Breame  of  South  Lopham,  John  Breame  son  of  Charles 
Breame  of  Botesdale,  Thomas  Sargeant  son  of  Thomas  Sargeant  of  Coneyweston,  and  to  William 
Gibbs  son  of  Henry  Gibbs.  Wife  and  John  Blomefield  aforesaid  to  be  executors. 

This  will,  proved  in  the  Bishop’s  Court  at  Norwich,  is  given  verbatim  in  the  Chancery  Proceedings 
in  Muskett  contra  Muskett,  1689  {Reynardson,  1674-1692).  The  testator  did  not  live  to  sign  it. 

2  Y 


378 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


$rtugm  from  Catntien’d  ^uffolfc  Visitation. 

Richard  Musket  of  Haley  in  Suff:  mar:  Joane  d:  of  Abell  <&  had  issue  Henry  sonne  <fc  h: 
Henry  Musket  of  Halston,  specified  in  ye  former  visitac’on,  maried  to  his  first  wyffe  Anne 
ye  daug :  of  Keable  &  had  issue  Rich :  son’e  &  heire  :  to  his  2'1  wyfe  he  marri :  Jone  daugh  :  of 
Sharpe  of  London  <&  had  issue  Henry  2d  Grace  Alis  Jone  &  Dorathe : 

Richard  son’e  <&  heire  married  Mary  daugh:  of  WilVm:  Cooke  of  Wellingfield  in  Suff:  <b 
had  issue  Thomas  son’e  <{'  heire  Henry  2d :  this  is  another  descent. 

Harl.  MS.  1820,  fo.  12  b. 


fktngrrr  from  $?arl.  fFl«.  2109,  fol  35. 


Edmound  Conquest  of  Houghton  Conquest=j=Joane,  da.  to  W’n  Button  of  Ampthill 


in  co.  Bedford. 


in  co.  Bedford. 


1 

Edmound 
Conquest 
sonne  8f 
heir. 

~i  r  t 

Richard  2  sonne.  Elizabeth  vxor 

—  Phillepe  Kinge 

William  3  sonne.  of  Wormoll  in 

—  Com ’  Oxford. 

George  4  sonne. 

Dorothey  vxr 
John  Rotvse  of 
Slewkley  in 
com’  Hunting  - 
to’. 

~r 

Anne  vxor  Robart 
Newdigatte  of  Hanes 
in  Bedfordshr  Esqr 
Hawns. 

W1 

t  n 

Cicely  vxor  Ro-  frauncis. 
ger  Duncombe  of 

Breckhill  in 

Com’  Bucks. 

S'"  Robert 
Newdigate. 

T  T 

1.  Anne  vx  2.  Doret.hy  vx 

brow.  Marbury. 

—  1 

3.  Elizabeth  vx  Sr  Ed  4.  Mary  vxr  Simon  Muskett  of  Graeslnn  esqr  yon - 

Phillips  mr  of  Rolles.  ger  bvo  to  Muskett  of  busshes  co.  Suff. 

T3 

J 

r  T 

Robert  John 

s.p.  s.p. 

 1 

Simon 

s.p. 

Mary  heyre  to  her  brethren  vxr  Tho 

Smalwood  of  Selford  co.  Cestr. 

Visitation  of  Bedfordshire  1582,  with  additions. 


Prtugrrrs  from  tfjr  33 lots 


Richard ,=j= 


William  Muskett  de  Hawley: =p Joane  Broadstread. 


William.— Eliza  Sibbes.  Simon  Muskett  Ar.  a  lawyer.1— Lady  Edon. 

Add.  MSS.  19142,  fo.  398. 

Benedict  Rushbrooke  of  Hawley ,=^Margaret  Muskett  of  Hawley.  —  Wm  Devereux  of  Buxhall,  2  husb. 

I 

_ _ i _ _ 


William. 


Benedict. 


- 1 

Anne. 


Add.  MS.  8214,  fo.  167. 

In  its  original  form  the  first  of  these  pedigrees  has  additional  descents,  incorrectly  transcribed  from 
the  Suffolk  Visitations  of  1577  and  1612. 


MUSKETT  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


379 


^rtitffrrr,  JHusfcftt  of  liaurjijlry. 


.Henry  Muskett,  probably  a  kinsman  of  the  Muskets  and  Muschets  of  Cambridgeshire  named1 
in  the  Rotuli  Hundredorum,  purchased  messuage  and  lands  in  Haughley,  co.  Suffolk,  of  John 
Bresete  and  Alice  his  wife,  1366.  Suffolk  Fines,  39  40,  Edw.  III. 


.  .  .  Muskett,  living  circa=f= 
1400. 


John  Muskett,  sat  on  a  jury  at  Cheveley,  co.  Cambridge,  1384. 
Was  he  of  the  Cambridge  or  the  Suffolk  family  of  Muskett  ? 


Rolls  of  Parliament,  vol.  in,  8  Richd.  II. 


Agnes,  lst=j=William  Muskett,  of  Sud-- 
wife, named  bury,  co.  Suff.  Will,  Arch, 
in  her  hus-  Sudb.,  4  Jan.  1451,  proved 
band’s  will.  20  Feb.  following. 


^Isabel,  2d  wife, 
dan. of  Alice  Reg- 
neld  ;  survived 
her  husband. 


John  Muskett,  Rector  of  Brettenham, 
co.  Suffolk.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  8  Oct., 
proved  13  Oct.  1455  ;  bequest  to  Haugh¬ 
ley  church.  William  Muskett  an  exor. 


Thomas  Muskett,  living=p.  .  .  ,  his 


1458, when  John,  his  son, 
made  his  will.  ?  Exor.  of 
Henry  Muskett,  1468. 


wife,  liv¬ 
ing  1458. 


Katherine, 
named 
1451  in  her 
father’s 
will. 


William  Muskett,  nephew  or 
grandson  of  William  Muskett 
1451 ;  exor.  of  John  Muskett, 
Rector  of  Brettenham,  1455  ; 
devisee  of  Henry  Muskett, 
of  Haughley,  1468. 


Henry  Muskett,  of  Haughley ,=r  Alice, 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  27  Oct.  1468.  his 
Surrendered  “  Mondegomes  ”  wife 
to  John,  his  son,  4  E.  4.  Haugh-  1468. 
ley  Manor  Books.  Brotherper- 
hapsto  the  R.  of  Brettenham. 


John  Muskett, of 
Drinkstone,  co. 
Suff. ;  in  will, 
1458,  names  Ag¬ 
nes,  his  wife,  & 
possible  issue. 


William  Mus¬ 
kett,  brother 
and  devisee  of 
JohnMuskett, 
1458. 


Thomas  Muskett, 
of  Drinkstone. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb. 
1485.  By  Kath¬ 
erine,  his  wife, 
had  issue.  =p 


John  Muskett,  surrendered  “  Monde-1 
gomes  ”  in  Haughley  to  William  Mus¬ 
kett,  11  H.  7  1496.  Haughley  Manor 
Books. 


Edmund  Muskett,  devisee  of  John1 
Muskett,  Rector  of  Brettenham,  1455 ; 
heir  to  Alice,  his  mother,  11  E.  4. 
Haughley  Manor  Books. 


William  Muskett,  to  whom  his  father=j=... 
devised  messuages  and  lands  in  Drink¬ 
stone  :  had  son  Thomas  Muskett  1485. 


A 


William  Muskett,1 
of  Haughley.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudbury  4 
Jan.  1543,  pr.  1 
July  1544. 


-.  .  .  ,  his  wife,  Henry  Muskett,  of  Bux-=Alice,  his  wife,  to  whom 
dead  1543,  bur-  hall,  co.  Suffolk.  Will,  he  bequeathed  a  close, 
ied  in  Haugh-  Arch.  Sudb.  1539,  Wil-  with  remainder  to  Wil¬ 
ley  church-  liam  Muskett,  of  Haugh-  Ham  Bradstreet, 'another 
yard.  ley,  an  executor.  executor. 


Robert  Muskett,  of  Haugh-=j=Rose,  his  wife,  13 


ley,  5  H.  7,  1490.  Chan. 
Proc.  Parker  c.  Muskett ; 
dead  23  H.  8.  1531.  Haugh¬ 
ley  Manor  Books. 


Joan,  da.  and  coh.=^Richard  Muskett,— Martha,  widow  of 


of  William  Abell, 
of  Woolpit,  who 
made  will,  Cur.Ep. 
Norw.,  16  Dec. 
1525.  1st  wife. 


ofHaughley.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  22 
Aug.  1558,  bur. 
at  Rattlesden,  28 
Nov.  1558. 


John  Groom,  of 
Rattlesden,  who 
made  will  P.C.C. 33 
Populwell,  1548. 
2d  wife. 


Rose,  wife  of  .  .  . 
Osborne  ;  had  son 
William  Osborne; 
both  living  in 
1543. 


Joan,  mar.,  1,  .  .  . 
Cowper;  2,  .  .  .  . 
Bowie.  Had  sons 
Richard  and  Wil¬ 
liam  Cowper,  in 
1543. 


John  Muskett,  of 
Harleston,  co. 
Suff.  Will,  1556. 
Had  issue  by  Ag¬ 
nes,  his  wife. 


H.  8  ;  was  wife  of 
Richard  Lenaker, 
23  H.  8.  Haugh¬ 
ley  Manor  Books. 


Henry  Mus¬ 
kett,  the  elder, 
ofHaughley, 23 
H.  8.  Haugh¬ 
ley  Manor 
Books. 


Joan.  mar.  Steph¬ 
en  Humfrey,  of 
Drinkstone  ;  died 
there  in  1575.  M.I. 
in  Occolt  Church, 
Suffolk. 


- 1 — i 

Dorothy,  wife  of 
Roger  Groom,  of 
Rattlesden. 

Margaret,  ?  w.of 
Benedict  Rush- 
brook. 


Richard  Muskett,  of  Harleston.  In 
his  will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1605,  he  names 
his  dau.  Eleanor,  relict  of  Edmund 
Spurgeon,  who  re-married  James 
Muskett,  at  East  Harling,  Norfolk,  in 
1 598,  by  whom  issue. 


William  Muskett. 
Probably  Wm. Mus¬ 
kett,  of  East  Har¬ 
ling,  whose  will 
was  oroved,  Arch. 
Norfolk,  1607. 


John  Muskett,  pur-=y=Hellen,  sister 


chased  the  lands, 
1573,  of  William 
Muskett,  his  bro¬ 
ther.  Haughley 
Manor  Books. 


and  heir  of 
Thomas  Hey¬ 
ward.  Haugh¬ 
ley  Manor 
Books,  1573. 


A 


Joan,  1st  wife,  da.  of  Simon1 
Bradstreet,  of  Gislingham, 
co.  Suffolk,  and  of  Eleanor, 
his  wife,  who  made  will, 
Arch.  Sudb.  1556. 


^William  Muskett,  of— Alice  Augold,  or 
Haughley,  bur.  there  Auger,  of  Hopton, 
Aug.  1595.  Will,  Arch. 

Sudb.,  25  May  1594, 
pr.  in  Aug.  1595. 


co.  Suff.,  widow ; 
mar.  lie.  Arch. 
Sudb.,  Aug.  1585. 


A 

Pedigree  A.  Muskett  of  Haughley. 


Anne  Keble,  1st  wife,1 
probably  dau.  of 
John  Keble,  of  Stow- 
market ;  mar.  before 
1546. 


=Henry  Muskett, of  Har-=p Joan,  dau.  of  .  .  .  . 


leston,  co.  Suff.,  gent. ; 
ob.  13  Apl.  1595.  Inq. 
p.m.  37  Elizth. ;  pur¬ 
chased  Manor  1546. 


A 

Pedigree  B. 


Sharpe, of  London, 
2d  wife  ;  cousin  to 
Adam  Winthrop, 
the  Diarist. 


A 

Muskett  of  Harleston. 


Y 


380 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


^ctugrcc  3.  JHusfcftt  of  ?i)nttgljlc)>. 


Joan,  dau.  of  Simon  Bradstreet,  of  Gislingham,  co.  Suffolk,' 
and  sister  to  Thomas  Bradstreet,  Yicar  of  Haughley  1564  ; 
1st  wife ;  devisee  of  Eleanor  Bradstreet,  her  mother,  in 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  1  Sept.  1556;  buried  at  Haughley,  22  Sep¬ 
tember  1571. 


Richard  Muskett,  of  Haughley,  2d  son.' 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  30  Jan.  1616,  proved  3 
Feb.  following.  Lands  in  Haughley  and 
Stowmarket. 


Elizabeth  Kendal,  mar. 
at  Haughley  15  July 
1572;  bur.  there  10  July 
1608. 


Thomas  Muskett, of  Beccles,1 
gent.,  2d  sou.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  10  April  1646,  mak¬ 
ing  Beatrice,  his  daughter, 
sole  heir. 


Beatrice,  da.  of  Thos.  Goodwin,  mar.’  1st 
.  .  .  Uoggett,  of  .  .  .  (by  whom  issue)  ; 
2d,  Thos.  Gosselyn,  of  Beccles  ;  and  3d, 
Thos.  Muskett.  Mar.  lie.  Arch.  Suff.,  17 
Feb.  1628.  Nicholas  c.  Muskett,  Series II. 


A 


William  Muskett,  of=Christian  Coleman, =A  lice,  3d  wife,  wid- 
Haughley,  bur.  there  mar.  at  Haughley,  ow  of  . , .  Auger  or 
August  1595.  Will,  16  July  1572;  bur.  Augold,ofHopton; 
Arch.  Sudb.  25  May  there  1  Apl.  1583;  mar.  lie.,  Arch. 
1594;  pr.  Aug.  1595.  2d  wife.  Sudb.,  Aug.  1585. 


Henry  Muskett,  3d  son,  of  Great  Bar-=j=-Ursula,  his  wife  ;  joined 


ton,  co.  Suffolk,  1598.  Spalding  c.  Mus¬ 
kett,  Mitjord  ;  sold  lands.  Fine,  42  Eliza¬ 
beth. 


her  husband  in  sale  of 
land.  Fine,  Suffolk,  42 
Eliz. 


William  Muskett,  of  Brisley.  co.  Norf.,  1604.  Muskett  c.— Elizabeth, 
Burges,  Mitjord.  Muskett  c.  Burgys,  Jas.  I,  B.  8f  A.  his  wife. 
Lands  in  Elmham,  Colkirk,  and  Mattishall ;  ob.  s.p.  1605 .Fine, 
Admon  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  16  April  1607,  to  John  Mus-  Norfolk, 
kett,  of  Walsham  le  Willows.  3  Jas.  I. 


William  Muskett,' 
of  Coneyweston, 
eldest  son.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  20 
Feb.  1629 ;  bur. 
at  Haughley,  25 
May  1629. 


pElizabeth,  da.  &  coh. 
of  Robert  Sibbes,  of 
Coneyweston,  lord  of 
Ladies  Manor,  Rock¬ 
land  Tofts,  who  made 
will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
24th  Eliz.  1581. 


Mary,  sister  of' 
Sir  Robt.  Newdi- 
gate  of  Havvne, 
co.  Bedford,  1st 
wife  ;  bur.  in  St. 
Andrew’s  eh., 
Holborn,  1613. 


;Simon  Muskett, = 
Esq.,  of  Gray’s  Inn, 
4th  s.,  compounded 
for  knighthood  in 
1635.  Escheatorfor 
Suffolk,  etc..  Will, 
P.C.C.115PiIe,1637. 


'Beatrice,  2d  wife, 
mar.  1st  Thomas 
Goodman,  Esq.,& 
2d  (as  his  3d  wife) 
Sir  Thos.  Eden, 
of  Sudbury.  She 
died  in  1623. 


John  Muskett,  5th= 
s.,  of  Walsham  le 
Willows,  baptized 
1561.  Admon.  to 
Dorothy,  his  relict, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  Aug. 
1632. 


'Elizabeth  Cook, 
of  Hunston, wid¬ 
ow  ;  mar.  lie. 
Feb.  1586.  Ad¬ 
mon  .  Hook,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  1577 — 
1593. 


Robert  Muskett,  of' 
Haughley,  eld.  son ; 
heir  to  his  mother 
1595 ;  lord  of  Ladies 
Manor,  Rockland 
Tofts ;  mar.  44  Eliz. 
Onslow  c.  Muskett, 
Chas.  I,  B.  8f~  A. 


:Anne,  da.  &  coh. 
of  John  Brad¬ 
street,  of  Bux- 
hall,  who  made 
Will,  Arch.  Sud¬ 
bury,  10  Oct. 
1612. 


Simon  Muskett,  ofp=Anne 


Rockland  1625,  & 
after  of  H ockham. 
Kindersley  c.  Mus¬ 
kett,  Chas.  I,  B 
A.  Sold  Ladies 
Manor  by  Fine  17 
Jas.  I,  1619. 


Ted- 

gell, 

mar. 

8th 

Oct. 

1610. 


Mary,  ultimate¬ 
ly  sole  dau.  & 
heir,  m.  Thomas 
Smallwood,  of 
Selford,  co. 
Chester,  gent., 
See  Visitation  of 
Chester,  1664. 


Dorothy,  1st  w.,= 
da.  &  h.  of  Geo. 
Groom,  son  &  h. 
of  RogerGroom, 
of  Rattlesden. 
Muskett  c.  Cock- 
sedge,  C.P.,  Ser. 
II. 


William  Muskett,  eld-  John  Muskett, 
est  son,  joined  his  fa-  ofWymondham, 
ther  in  sale  of  lands,  eldest  son;  nam- 
1636.  Onslow  c.  Mus-  ed  in  his  father’s 
kett,  Chas.  I,  B.  8f  A.,  will,  Arch.  Nor- 
0.  9,  34.  folk,  No.  81, 

1641. 


Margaret, —Charles  Muskett,  of=j=Elizabeth,  1st  wife, 


'John  Muskett,  of= 
Stowlangtoft,  co. 
Suff.,gent.,&after 
of  Bressingham, 
Norfolk.  Will, 
P.C.C.  657  Wot- 
ton,  3  Oct.  1649. 
prob.29Nov.1658. 


'Mary,  2d  wife, 
relict  of  .... 
Williamson,  by 
whom  a  son, 
Thomas  Wil¬ 
liamson,  living 
1649. 


sister  of 
Nicholas 
Barker. 
Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw. 
1667. 


Frenze,  co.  Norfolk, 
gent.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  7  Sept.  1678; 
proved  21  Dec.  same 
year. 


da.  of  Robert  Fisher, 
of  Redgrave ;  mar. 
there  24  Sept.  1644. 
His  Will,  P.C.C.  28 
Aylett,  1644. 


Anne,  1st  wife  of 
Henry  Blomefield, 
of  Fersfield,  co. 
Norff.,  gent,  who 
made  Will, Cui\  Ep. 
Norw. ,8  Nov.1670. 


- 1 

John  Muskett, 
citizen  and  fish¬ 
monger  ofLondon, 
s.  &  h.  Close  Roll, 
Muskett  et  Dicken¬ 
son,  11  Chas.  I. 


Priscilla,  mar.  Hen¬ 
ry  Gibbs,  of  Frenze, 
Norff.  See  Gibbs 
pedigrees,  Tanner 
MS.,  180-128,  and 
Harl.  MS.  6071. 


Mary,  mar.  John 
Watts,  of  East 
Harling,  who 
madeWill,Arch. 
Norff. ,  26  Feb. 
1678; dead 1679. 


Mary,  lst=j=John  Muskett,  of  Botes-= 


wife, sister 
&  devisee 
of  John 
Richards 
1714. 


dale,  in  co.  Suff.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  20  May 
1688,  John  Blomefield 
executor  ;  bur.  at  Red¬ 
grave,  21  May  1688. 


'Elizabeth  Fisher, =Samuel  Farrow,  ob. 
2d  wife,  mar.  at  1707.  M.I.  in  Red¬ 
grave  church.  Had 
by  1st  w.  Margaret, 
mar.  to  Richd.  Crow, 
and  Ann,  mar.  to 
Robert  Fuller. 


Redgrave,  4  Oct. 
1682.  Sherenupt. 
Samuel  Farx-ow 
at  Redgrave  4 
Aug.  1696. 


John  Blomefield, 
of  Fersfield,  gent.  ;. 
born  1645  ;  grand¬ 
father  of  Francis 
Blomefield,  the 
Noi'folk  historian. 


Mary  Watts,  dau. 
and  coh.,  named  in 
her  grandfather’s 
Will  1678;  dead  19 
Nov.  1694.  East 
Harling  Manor 
Books. 


Elizabeth  Watts,  da. 
&  coh.  1679  ;  sister 
&  hr.  to  Mary  Watts 
1694,  &  then  wife  of 
Jeremie  Burrougli. 
East  Harling  Manor 
Books. 


Elizabeth  Mus-— Buckenham  Browne,  citi- 
kett,  elder  dau.  zen  and  salter  of  London. 
&  coh.,  aged  9  Indenture,  1703,  of  sale  of 
in  1689.  Mus-  wife’s  lands  to  her  step- 
kett  c.  Muskett,  mother.  Maudslay’s  liok- 
Reynardson.  enham  Notes,  p.  256. 


Mary  Muskett,  the  youuger=f-  John  White,  of 
dau.  and  coh.,  admitted 
to  reversions  on  her  mo¬ 
ther’s  decease ;  was  a 
widow,  1725.  Coneyweston 
Manor  /looks.  Married  at 
Hiuderclay  15  Jan.  170f. 


named  in  Re¬ 
covery,  Mich. 
9  Anne  1710, 
as  husband  to- 
Mary  Muskett- 


Muskett  White,  bur.  at  Redgrave,  7  Oct.  1710. 


MUSKETT  OF  HAUGHLEY. 


381 


iPrtriffm  35.  fHtisiiftt  of  ?l)arlreiton  $)arba. 


Anne  Keble,  1st  wife;  pro¬ 
bably  da.  of  John  Keble,  the 
heire,  of  Stowniarket.  See 
Keble  pedigree  p.  227. 


=Henry  Muskett,  of  Harleston,  co.  Suifolk,  gent.,  purchased^pJoan,  da.  of  ...  .  Sharpe,1  of  London, 


the  Manor  1536  ( Patent  28  H.  8).  Had  grant  of  Arms,  1576. 
Entered  pedigree  in  Suffolk  Visitation  1577.  Inq.  p.  mortem 
37  Eliz. ;  buried  at  Wetherden,  13  April  1599. 


and  cousin  german  to  Adam  Winthrop, 
who  records  her  death  in  his  Diary  ; 
died  21  July  1597,  bur.  at  Wetherden. 


Henry  Muskett,  of  Great  Dunham=Catherine,  da.  and  devisee  of— Robert  Brend, 3d 


and  after  of  Fritton,  co.  Norfolk, 
gent.  ;  bought  the  Fritton  lands  by 
Fine  39  and  40  Elizth.  Admon. 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  24  April  1613. 


Hamon  Claxton,  Esq.,  of  Nor¬ 
wich,  who  made  Will,  Cur.Ep. 
N.,  1592 ;  relict  of  Nicholas 
Thurston,  by  whom  issue. 


husband,  1613 ; 
named  in  Henry 
Muskett’s  admin¬ 
istration. 


Grace,  wife  of  Thomas 
Betts,  of  Wetherden; 
marriage  licence,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norwich,  14  Sept. 
1582. 


Alice,  mar.  at 
Harleston,  John 
Buller,  gent.,  19 
Dec.  1588;  after 
of  Wetherden. 


- 1 — l 

Joan. 


Doro¬ 

thy. 


Richard  Muskett,  of  Harleston,  gent.,  son=pMary,  da.  of 
and  heir ;  made  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  20  October 
1626,  proved  29  July  1628 ;  bur.  in  Harleston 
church  1627.  Inq.  post  mortem  3  Car. 


Cock,  of  Withersfield,  co. 
Suffolk,  by  Margaret,  sister  and  devisee  of 
John  Taylor,  of  London,  Esq.,  1600;  mar.  set¬ 
tlement  1583  ;  Close  Roll,  25  Elizabeth. 


John  Buller, 
bapt.  1593  at 
Wetherden. 


T - 1 — | 

Thomas  Buller,  Anne, 
bapt.  at  Weth-  — 
erden,  29  July  Alice. 
1601. 


Lucy,  wife  of- 
Thos.  Muskett, 
gent.,  bur.  at 
Harleston, 
1608.  Parish 
Register. 


-Thomas  Muskett, = 
of  Harleston, gent., 
son  and  heir,  bapt. 
there  1583 ;  buried 
there  1620 ;  ob.  vita 
patris. 


:Katherine,  da. 
of  .  .  .  Cannon, 
of  .... ;  mar. 
settlement  1 
Oct.  12  Jas.  I. 


Henry  Muskett,  of  Bury  St.  Ed-=j=Mary,  da.  &  coh.  of=j=John  Dickenson,  of  Bury 


munds,  gent.,  2d  son,  bapt.  at  Har¬ 
leston  1584;  sold  Worlingham  es¬ 
tate  by  Fine,  15  Jas.  I  ;  buried  at 
Harleston  1620.  Inq.  post  moi’tem 
4  Jan.  18  Jas. 


Rich.  Bury,  of  Wor¬ 
lingham,  gent.  Her 
sister,  Grizell  Bury, 
mar.  Wm.  Vesey,  of 
Wix,  co.  Essex,  gent. 


St.  Eds.,  gent.,  2d  husbd. 
Visus  Compoti,  Court  of 
Wards,  3  Car.  fought 
Harleston  Manor  of  Rich. 
Muskett,  16  Jas.  1618. 


/K 


Thomas,  son  of 
Thos.  Muskett, 
gent. ;  buried 
at  Harleston, 
15  October 
1617. 


Catherine,  da.: 

of . ; 

bur.  at  Weet- 
ing,  Norfolk, 
14  September 
1662. 


'Richard  Muskett,  of  Harleston,  gent,  heir= 
to  his  grandfather  1628  ;  after  of  Shading- 
field,  co.  Suifolk,  and  Weeting,  co.  Norff . ; 
sold  estates,  16  Chas.,  etc.  Close  Roll;  took 
holy  orders.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  5  May 
1676  ;  bur.  at  Northwold,  6  Oct.  1676. 


'Frances,  2d  wife,  named, 
1668,  in  a  Norfolk  Fine,  by 
which  she  &  her  husb.  sell 
to  Frances  Ilia  a  messuage 
in  Fincham ;  co-executor 
in  husband’s  Will  1678. 


Anne  Muskett,  only  da.  &  heir, 
bapt.  at  Worlingham,  2  Sept. 
1617  ;  bur.  at  Harleston,  1632. 
Inq.  p.m.  9  Chas.;  lands  to 
Richard  Muskett,  her  cousin 
and  next  heir. 


Samuel  Muskett,  of  Bury=j= Anne  King,  mar.  at 


St.  Edmunds,  bapt.  atShad- 
ingfield,  co.  Suff.,  21  May 
1640;  of  Bury  1674. 


St.  James’  church, 
BurySt.  Edmunds, 
19  May  1664. 


Charles  Muskett,  named 
1676  in  his  father’s  Will, 
then  living  at  Oxburgh, 
co.  Norfolk. 


Hannah, named  1676  Catherine,  buried  Thomas  Muskett, 
in  her  father’s  Will  at  Northwold,  in  buried  at  North- 
as  co-executrix  with  Norfolk,  26  Feb.  wold,  26  Decem¬ 
ber  mother.  1667.  ber  1675. 


Henry  Muskett,  baptized  at  St.  James’  church, 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  21  April  1665. 


Samuel  Muskett,  baptized  at  St.  James’  church, 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  26  Nov.  1666. 


1  “  Henry  Muskett  gent,  and  Joan  Bradley  gen’  were  married  the  7th  day  of  .  .  .  1563.”  Stoke  by  Nayland  Registers 
At  this  date  Joan  Sharpe  was  about  twenty-five  years  old  and  may  have  been  the  widow  of  .  .  .  Bradley. 

“  In  Harleston  in  the  time  of  Q.  Elizabeth  &  King  James  liued  a  ffamily  of  Musket.  The  estate  which  then  they 
had  was  thought  worth  300'  p’  annum.” 

“  Charles  Humphrey  liued  a  ffarmer  in  Harleston  hall  in  the  time  of  K.  Charles  after  he  had  sold  his  estate  in 
Rusbangles.”  (He  was  grandson  of  Stephen  Humphrey  and  Joan  his  wife,  the  sister  of  Henry  Muskett  who  purchased  the. 
Manor). 

“  Humphry — G.  a  lion  rampand  or,  armed  and  langued  b.  Over  his  head  a  crown  of  the  second.” 

Candler’s  Church  Notes  of  Suffolk,  1655.  Add.  MS.  15,520,  p.  90. 


382 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


js>fcetri)  lirtritjnx,  jWusfeett  of  Knttoooii, 

Thomas  Muskett  of  West  Harling,  Norfolk  ;  probably  descended  from  Haughley  in  Suffolk.  For  the  families  were  intimate=f= 
at  the  close  of  the  sixteenth  century,  James  Muskett  of  Harling  having  married  Eleanor  Spurgeon,  the  widowed  daughter  of 
Richard  Muskett  of  Harleston,  a  well  known  member  of  the  Haughley  branch,  in  1598.  See  pedigree,  page  379,  last  descent 
but  one. 


Elizabeth, =j=Roger  Folser  of  Shelfanger,  co.  Norff.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,=Mary  Muskett,  2nd  wife,  mar.  at  Shelfanger  1  Feb.  1686  ; 


1st  wife. 


11  May  1720.  Makes  Elizabeth  Elliott,  his  granddaughter, 
and  William  Elliott,  her  husband,  his  heirs. 


settles  closes  upon  Andrew  Muskett,  her  nephew,  ob.  1714. 
Winfarthing  Manor  Books. 


Thomas  Folser  of  Diss,  co.  Norff.,  gent.,  ob  vitci  patris.  Elizabeth,  his  only  child,  then  widow  of; 
William  Elliott  of  Shelfanger,  gent.,  made  Will,  Arch.  Norff.  20th  Sept.  1749,  devising  her  lands 
there  to  Eleanor  Critoft,  her  daughter,  wife  of  John  Critoft  of  Mattishall,  surgeon. 


:Ellen,  his  wife,  living  1720,  when 
Roger  Folser  made  his  Will. 


A 


I - -  I 

Anne,  1st  wife, =j=John  Muskett  of  Tharston  and=pMary,  da.  of  Ephraim  Hey  wood  Mary,  bapt.  at  Thelton  22  July 


da.  of  Geo.  Hart 
of  Tasburgh, 
who  made  Will, 
Arch.Norf.1757. 


Newton  Flotman,  gent. ;  bapt. 
at  Thelton,  1710.  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  16  April  1763 ; 
prob.  2  April  1768. 


A 


of  Diss,  co.  Norf.,  who  made 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  13  Feb. 
1764.  She  married  secondly 
Charles  Hart,  by  whom  issue. 


1708  ;  mar.  at  Thrandeston, 
co.  Suff.,  22  Jan.  1734,  John  Le 
Grice  of  Thelton,  gent.,  who 
made  Will  1749. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  at 
Thelton, 19Junel715; 
mar.  1  .  .  .  Hart,  2 
Jn.  Bousell,  a  Quaker 
writer  and  preacher. 


Joseph  Muskett,  of  Easton, =j=Elizabeth,  da.  of 


co.  Norff.,  3d  son,  b.  1757  ; 
bought  the  Manors  of  Int- 
wood,  Clippesby,  and  Plum- 
stead  Parva,  1808;  d.  1832. 


James  Salisbury 
of  C  heveley  ,C  am- 
bridgeshire;  mar. 
1780. 


Benjamin  Muskett,  of  Rock¬ 
land  St.  Peter ;  born  1758  ; 
mar.  Mary,  da.  of  James  Ful¬ 
cher, by  whom  Benjamin  Mus¬ 
kett  of  Diss.  He  d.  1833. 


Mary,  b.  1755  ; 
mar.  Wm.  Rich¬ 
ardson  of  Lang- 
barf  Gisboro, 
co.  Yorkshire. 


Sarah,  b.  1765  ;  mar.  James  Whiting  of 
Epsom,  from  whom  descended  Matthew 
&  Noel  Whiting  of  Clapham,  co.  Surrey, 
and  Henry  Whiting,  whose  da.  Julietta 
mar.  Sir  Alfred  Edward  Turner,  K.C.B. 


Joseph  Salisbury=f=Mary,  only  da.  of  Henry  Musket  of=pEmily,  dau.  of 


Muskett  of  Int- 
wood  Hall;  J.P. 
for  Norfolk ;  born 
1784. 


William  Jary  of 
Burlingham 
House,  Norfolk; 
mar.  there  17 
March  1812. 


Clippesby  Hall, 
Norfolk,  J.P. ;  b. 
11  April  1787;  d. 
27  Oct.  1851 ;  M. I. 
in  Clippesby  Ch. 


William  Grant 
of  Norwich ; 
married  8  July 
1817. 


Elizabeth, married 
William  Yetts  of 
Great  Yarmouth, 
J.P. ,8  April  1812; 
died  1854.  He  died 
25  Mar.  1863. 


William  Mus¬ 
kett  of  Stoke 
Newington, 
Middlesex  ;  b. 
1795  ;  died  in 
1850. 


-Elizabeth  Anna  Maria, 
da.  of  Rev.  John  Bur¬ 
rell,  M.A.,  F.L.S.,  Rector 
of  Letheringsett;  author 
of  “  ProdromusLepidop- 
torum  Britannicorum.” 


Mary  Anne, =j=Clement  Untliank  of  Henry  Joseph  Muskett,  M.A.,=pSophia  Anne,  da. 


sole  dau.  <fc 
heir ;  mar. 
2  Apr.1835 ; 
died  19Feb. 
1888. 


Norwich,  after  of 
Intwood  Hall ;  J.P. 
for  N  orf oik  and  D .  L . ; 
born  1804;  died  in 
1884. 


Rector  of  Clippesby  ;  b.  1820  ; 
mar.,  1,  Charlotte,  da.  of  Wil¬ 
liam  Heath  Jary  of  Blofield 
Lodge,  J.P.  (who  d.  s.p.  1884). 
He  died  1896. 


of  Edward  Ward 
of  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  2d  wife ; 
mar.  1896 ;  has 
with  other  issue 


Joseph  Muskett  Yetts  of  Sibtom 
House,  Lower  Norwood,  and 
Carlton  Rookery,  Saxmundham, 
Suffolk ;  died  9  August  1906, 
and  was  buried  in  Norwood 
cemetery  ;  had  with  other  issue 


=Eliza  Law¬ 
rence,  d.  30 
November 
1905  ;  bur. 
in  Norwood 
cemetery. 


Clement  William1 
Joseph  Unthank 
of  Intwood  Hall, 
J.P.;  High  Sheriff 
of  Norfolk,  1893; 
born  1847,  mar. 
20  May  1873. 


: Judith  Sarah, 
da.  &  coheir  of 
Onley  Savill 
Onley  of  Stis- 
ted  Hall,  co. 
Essex ;  High 
Sheriff,  1849. 


Henry  Joseph  Salis-=Winifred 
bury  Muskett,  eld-  Jane  Wal- 
est  son,  born  1867 ;  ker  ;  mar. 
of  Victoria;  Secre-  at  Victo- 
tary  to  the  Lieut.-  ria,  B.C., 
Governor  of  British  7  August 
Columbia.  1897. 


Henry  Muskett  Yetts, =f=Emily  Muskett, 


b.  1840 ;  of  Croydon, 
co.  Suri’ey ;  eldest  son. 
Has,  with  other  issue, 
Gertrude,  married  to 
HerbertAllder  of  Croy¬ 
don. 


A 


da.  of  Samuel 
Chas.  Marsh  of 
Great  Yar¬ 
mouth,  J.P.,  by 
Mary  his  wife, 
da. ofWm. Yetts. 


Robert  Muskett 
Yetts,  yst.  son, 
B.A.,  Cantab.; 
married  Edith 
Bloomfield;  died 
s.p.  in  1890. 


A 


MUSKETT  OF  HAUGHLKY, 


383 


Cltpprsftg,  anti  Bury  &t.  <35tununtis. 

=Mary,  his  wife,  named 
in  the  West  Harling 
Registers  1644 — 1660. 


Thomas  Muskett,  bapt.  at  West 
Harling  1644. 


John  Muskett,  bapt.  at  West1 
Harling  1647. 


Andrew  Muskett,  bap.  at  West  Harling 
9th  May  1650. 


Andrew  Muskett  of  Shelfanger,  1695;  after  of  Thelton,  co.  Norff. ;  nephew  and  heir  to  Mary  Folser,  1714. 

Manor  Books.  Devisee  of  Roger  Folser,  1720;  named  in  Will  of  Thomas  Alden,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1699;  defendant  in 
Exchequer  suit,  Manning  c.  Muskett,  1719 ;  imprisoned  in  Norwich  Castle  for  refusing  to  pay  tytlies;  died  1744. 


lFm/artkwi5r=j=Elizabeth,  his 
wife;  mar.  be¬ 
fore  July  1708. 


Andrew  Muskett,  of  Thelton,  2d  son  ;=pMary,  da.  of  .  .  .  Algar  of  James  Muskett  of  Yelverton,=j=Mary 


bap.  there  1711.  Will,  Arch.  Norf. 
1768;  lands  in  Wickhamskeith,  eo. 
Suffolk. 


Bressingham  ;  mar.  at  Roy- 
don,  3  Oct.  1738  ;  she  died 
in  1773,  aged  64. 


3d  son,  born  1714.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  25  Apr.  1771. 
Had  2d  wife,  Eleanor  .  .  . 


Wake  of 
Pulham  ; 
m.  1738. 


Charles 
Muskett, 
4th  son  ; 
b.  1716. 


Rhoda,  married 
....  Hart  of 
East  Greensted, 
co.  Essex. 


A 


William  Mus-=pMary,  da.  of  Isaac 


kett  of  Attle¬ 
borough,  5th 
son,  b.  1760, 
ob.  1848. 


Taylor  of  Hack- 
ford  in  Norfolk. 
She  died  22  Dec. 
1838. 


William  Mus-- 
kett  of  New¬ 
ton  Flotman, 
eld.  s.  ;  b.  at 
Thelton  1739; 
d.  1804. 


■Elizabeth,  2d  da. 
of  John  Muskett  of 
Tharston  &  New¬ 
ton  Flotman,  by 
Anne,  his  1st  wife. 


John  Muskett  of= 
Thelton,  2d  son  ; 
b,  13  Feb.  1741 ; 
d.in  1818.  He  had 
with  other  issue. 


:Mary,  da.  of 
Chas.  Hart  of 
Hapton,gent., 
who  made 
Will  1788. 


Charles  Muskett=pSusanna, 


of  Tacolneston, 
Norfolk,  3d  son; 
bapt.  at  Thelton, 
10  Nov.  1742. 


daughter 
of  ...  . 
Everitt. 


John  Muskett  of  Spix-T=Mary,  born  3  Feb. 


worth,  in  co.  Norfolk, 
eldest  son  ;  born  1769  ; 
died  8  July  1827,  aged 
58 ;  monument  in  Spix- 
worth  Church. 


1771  ;  d.  24  March 
1663,  aged  92 ; 
bur.  at  Spixworth. 
She  had,  with 
other  issue. 


John  Muskett  of= 
the  Abbey  Ruins, 
Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  J.P. ;  b. 
6  Oct.  1777;  d. 
13  Nov.  1662. 


'Isabella,  da. 
of  .  .  .  Stut¬ 
ter  of  Forn- 
ham  St.Gen- 
evieve ;  died 
Nov.  1849. 


Lucy,  mar.  Robert 
Martin  of  Bressing¬ 
ham  Hall ;  grand¬ 
son  of  Thomas 
Martin  of  Thetford, 
the  Antiquary. 


Robert  Muskett  of=f  Mary,  dau.  of 


Heigham  Grove, 
near  Norwich;  b. 
in  1774;  died  in 
1857 ;  had  with 
other  issue. 


L 


Holmes  of 
Tivetshall ;  m. 
24  October 
1797. 


Edwin  Burrell  Mus-= 
kett, M.D., Fellow  of 
the  Linnsean  Soc. ; 
District  Surgeon  of 
Hope  Town, Cape  of 
Good  Hope;  3d  son ; 
born  1836,  d.  1892. 


=j=Ellen  Rhoda,  da. of 
Joseph  Muskett, 
sister  of  Joseph 
James  Muskett, 
Dist.  Surg.  of  Mur- 
raysburg,  Cape  of 
G.  Hope;  d.  1873. 
A 


CharlesMuskett 
of  Bressingham, 
only  son  ;  mar. 
Rachel  Brown,  3 
Aug.  1866,  and 
had  issue  J.  H. 
Martin  Muskett. 


Mary  Elizabeth,  mar. 
Rev. Samuel  Hobson, 
LL.B.,  Vicar  of  Tut- 
tington,  N  orf  oik ;  au¬ 
thor  of  “  Letters  to  a 
Waverer.”  She  died 
1856. 


John  Muskett  of" 
Diss,  Coroner  for 
the  D  uchy  of  Nor¬ 
folk,  J.P. ;  ob. 
1881.  Issue  by 
Lucy,  1  w. ;  died 
in  infancy. 


'Eliza,  da.  of 
John  Gould, 
F.R.S., 
F.L.S.,  au¬ 
thor  of  The 
Birds  of  Au¬ 
stralia,  etc. 


Mary,  born  1798 ;  sole 
heir  to  her  brother,  Al¬ 
fred  Muskettof  Hiug- 
ham  Hall ;  mar.  Raw- 
don  Hunter  of  Titch- 
field,  co.  Hants. 


Rev. Samuel  Hobson, 
M.A.,  born  3  Febru¬ 
ary  1845 ;  Rector  of 
Waters  Upton,  in 
Shropshire ;  Dioces¬ 
an  Inspector  of 
Schools,  Licli.  Dioc. 


Hobson,  b.  5  Feb.  1848 ; 
Rector  of  Ridlington, 
Yicar  of  East  Rust  on, 
N  orf  oik,  and  R.  D .  Has 
two  daus.,  Marguerite 
and  Olive  Kathleen. 


'Margaret, 

Mary 

Helen,  only  da. 

only  da.  of 

Eliza¬ 

married  Ernest 

Ash  Rudd 

beth, 

Alfred  Edelston 

of  Ruston 

only 

of  Brixton,  co. 

Hall,  J.P., 

da. 

Surrey,  M.A. 

who  ob.  in 

(Oxon.),  M.B. 

May  1907. 

Rawdon  Hunter  Muskett, =pAda,  da  of  John 


born  1826,  of  Hingham 
Hall,  Norfolk  ;  J.P.  for 
that  County ;  heir  to  his 
uncles  ;  assumed  name  of 
Muskett  1867. 


Graham ;  married 
1867.  Robert  Gra¬ 
ham  Hunter  Mus¬ 
kett,  her  son,  was 
born  1872. 


A 


A 


SPartritige  of  West 


I 


These  pages  are  supplemental  to  161-170  of  this  volume,  and  are  the  result  of  further  research. 

As  stated  at  p.  161,  “Partridge  has  always  been  a  prolific  name  in  Suffolk”- — so  prolific 
that  it  is  convenient  to  study  the  West  and  East  Suffolk  branches  separately.  These  pages 
relate  to  W.  Suffolk  only — i.e.,  including  Hartismere  and  Stow  Hundreds,  as  before  1837 — and 
treat  of  Partridge  of  Acton  and  Partridge  of  Tuddenham  (near  Mildenhall). 

The  following  chronological  list  refers  to  early  bearers  of  the  name  in  Suffolk.  It  should  be 
realised  that,  in  the  original  documents,  the  first  three  letters  of  the  name  are  often  represented 
by  P,  which  may,  with  equal  correctness,  be  extended  into  either  Par  or  Per.  These  documents 
being  written  almost  always  in  Latin,  which  contains  many  more  words  beginning  with  per  than 
with  par,  it  has  become  usual  to  extend  P  into  Per  unless  Par  is  obviously  intended  (Pker,  Pva, 
etc.).  The  etymology  of  the  surname  Partridge  is,  however,  so  uncertain  that  such  forms  of  it  as 
Ptrich  may  be  extended  into  either  Partrich  or  Pertrich. 

Three  etymologies  seem  possible:  (1)  Nickname  from  bird;  (2)  place-name  ending  in  ridge, 
A.  S.  hrycg ;  (3)  Patrick. 

(1)  The  bird’s  name  is  from  F.  perdrix,  from  L.  perdix.  Hence  was,  almost  doubtless,  the 
Perdriz  family  of  Sutton  and  Eastwood,  Essex,  whose  pedigree  (Harl.  381,  fo.  115),  compiled  from 
ten  deeds,  begins  with  Will.  Perdriz,  “  vixit  temp.  H.  1  et  Steph.” ;  his  descendants  are  Perdix  in 
Liber  Rubeus,  596  and  739,  and  Pertriz,  Partriz,  Parteriz,  in  Feudal  Aids,  ii,  137. 

(2)  The  most  probable  are  :  Pettridge  hamlet,  Brenchley,  Kent,  and  Peteridge-Wood,  place  near 
Reigate.  No  examples  can,  however,  be  quoted  with  de  before  surname.  Petridge  occurs  at  Henley, 
Suffolk,  1631  ;  Pertridge  at  Stonham  Aspall,  1589;  Patridg  at  Holton  S.  Mary,  1721  (tomb). 

(3)  “  Patricius  ”  (Saint)  occurs  in  A.S.  Chron.  under  year  430.  Early  in  Henry  Ill’s  reign, 
Patricius1  was  parson  of  Burgate  ;  Patrick2  of  Blundeston  was  dead  by  1274;  Patricius3  le  Escot  of 
Framlingbam  and  Patrick3  of  Framlingham,  1273-74,  were,  apparently,  identical;  also,  perhaps,  Tho. 
Patrick3  of  Framlingham,  1278-79.  In  Suffolk  subsidy  of  1327,  Patric  :  Puntyng  is  sole  example. 

Of  either  (1)  or  (3)  was  probably  a  family  long  of  Hackford-next-Reepham,  Norf.,  first 
mentioned  as  Pertriz4  1250,  as  Pertrij 5  1285,  but  later  always  as  Pertrick  (Partrick).6 7 * 

In  mediaeval  literature,  the  bird’s  name  occurs  as  partryke 7  and  per  try  ke s — so  like  Patrick  (a 
•of  Patricius  is  long  or  short)  that  confusion  may  have  arisen  between  the  bird’s  name  and  Patrick, 
so  that  the  elements  of  partridge  became  fused  into  Patrick,  and  vice  versa,  and,  thus,  some  families 
now  named  Partridge  may  owe  it  to  a  progenitor  Patrick.  An  important  example  is  Will.  Partnc,9 
Berkshire,  1204-5. 


1  Oopinger’s  Stiff.  Records  MSS.,  i,  354. 

2  Rot.  Hund.,  ii,  167a. 

3  Copinger’s  Stiff.  Records  MSS.,  ii,  406. 

4  Rye’s  Short  Cal.  of  Norf.  Fines,  i,  80. 

4  Ibid.,  i,  128. 


6  Ibid.,  i,  132,  141,  161 ;  ii,  241,  245  ;  Rot.  Hunck, 
i,  489  (thrice). 

7  Poem  Cleanness,  c.  1360,  line  57 ;  Catholicon 
Anglicum,  1483,  p.  270. 

s  Cath.  Angl.,  p.  277. 

9  Hunter’s  Fines,  sive  Ped.  Finium,  i,  137. 


PARTRIDGE  OF  WEST  SUFFOLK. 


385 


Year. 

Names. 

Parish. 

Particulars. 

Authority. 

1305 

Alexander 

Pertrich 

Hadleigh  - 

“  Tenentes  terrarum  de  Pertrickes- 
lond.  Alexander  Pertrich,  [etc.] 
tenent  istem  terram,”  etc. 

1  Extent  of  Hadleigh  Manor  ” 
in  Proc.  Suff.  Inst.  Arch.,  iii, 
p.  234. 

1314-15 

Alan 

Pertrich 

Raydon  (in  E.  Suff.,  but 
adjoins  Hadleigh) 

Grant  by  Alan  Pertrich  of  Raydon, 
and  Hathelathia  his  wife,  of  land 
in  Raydon 

‘  A  Descriptive  Cat.  of  Ancient 
Deeds  in  the  P.R.O.”  in  Proc. 
Suff.  Ittst.  Arch.,  x,  p.  340. 

1318 

Edmund 

Pertrich 

Herringswell 

- 

s.  d. 

Taxed  at  -  3  6 

The  East  Anglian,  x,  p.  388. 

Geoffrey 

Pertrich 

Denham  (W.  of 
S.  Edmund’s) 

Bury 

1 

John 

Pertrich 

Eriswell 

- 

„  „  -  2  6 

1327  • 

John 

John 

Pertrik 

Pertrich 

North- Hales  or 
hithe  (in  N.E. 
on  the  seacoast) 

Elmsett 

Cove- 

Suff., 

„  „  -  1  4 

»  »  -  1  4 

Suffolk  in  1327,  being  a  Sub- 
-  sidy  Return  [A|p],  edited 
by  S.H.A.H.,  1906. 

Osbert 

Pertrich 

Elmsett 

- 

>,  „  i  o 

William 

Pertrick 

Ringshall  (in  E.  Suff., 
but  adjoins  the  W. 
Suff.  border) 

»  ,.  -  2  0 

l 

William 

Patryk 

Mildenhall  - 

- 

»  »  -  Hi 

- 

1329-30 

Albred 

Pertrich 

Denham  (W.  of 
S.  Edmund’s) 

Bury 

Hugh  Pryde  of  Sudbury,  chaplain, 
and  Albredus  Pertrich  of  Denham, 
chaplain,  bought  of  John  Page  of 
Acton  and  Alice  his  wife  lands  in 
Melford 

Rye’s  Calendar  of  the  Feet  of 
Fines  for  Suffolk,  p.  164. 

1340  ) 

Roger 

Pertrick 

Denham  (W.  of 
S.  Edmund’s) 

Bury 

- 

Nonarum  Inquisitiones. 

( 

John 

Partrich 

Eriswell 

- 

- 

1362-63 

Thomas  and 
John 

Pertrych 

Hadleigh  - 

Grant  to  Tho.  Pertrych  of  Hadleigh, 
Juliana  his  wife,  and  John  his  son, 
of  a  messuage,  3  crofts,  and  pas¬ 
ture,  in  Layham 

“  A  Descriptive  Cat.  of  Ancient 
Deeds  in  the  P.R.O.,”in  Proc. 
Suff.  Inst.  Arch.,  x,  p.  337. 

1372-73 

John 

Pertrich 

Stowmarket 

- 

Will.  Sparwe  bought  of  John  Pert¬ 
rich  and  Alice  his  wife  lands  in 
Stowmarket 

Rye’s  Calendar  of  the  Feet  of 
Fines  for  Suffolk,  p.  243. 

1381 

Nicholas 

Partrich 

Mildenhall  - 

- 

And  Dionis  his  wife  (Lay  Subsidy, 
Suff.,  -w) 

Powell’s  Rising  in  East  Anglia 
in  1381,  p.  85. 

1469-70 

Nicholas 

Partrych 

Mildenhall  - 

- 

Grant  of  messuage  called  Cheveleys, 
in  Moulton,  formerly  owned  by  him 

Copinger’s  Suffolk  Records  and 
MSS.,  iv,  p.  186. 

2  z 


iPartntip  of  atton. 


Will  of  Hatberiiw  fjartrnrb  of  Jlctott,  1445. 

(Translated  from  contracted  Latin  and  shortened.)  In  the  Name  of  God  Amen.  On  the 
day  next  before  the  Feast  of  the  translation  of  S.  Richard  A.D.  Mccccxliij.  I  Katherine 
Partrych  [petrych  (sic)]  of  Aketon.  [Testament.]  My  soul  to  god  almighty,  the  B.V.M.,  <fe  all 
saints.  My  Bod}'  to  be  buried  in  Aketon  churchyard.  To  the  high  altar  for  tithes  forgotten 
vja  viijd.  To  the  church  of  the  said  town  for  its  sustentation  or  reparation  or  of  the  ornaments 
there  xls.  To  the  poor  of  the  said  town  vjs  viijd.  To  the  Gyld  held  in  honour  [ sancti  1  spiritus] 
in  the  said  town  vjs  viijd.  To  tho  Gild  of  S.  John  the  Baptist  there  iij3  iiijd.  To  the  gild 
of  holy  trinity  at  Lavenham  vj8  viijd.  To  Nicholas  Hacon  Rector  of  Aketon  church  vj8  viijd. 
To  all  my  godsons  &  goddaughters  [ filiolorum  &  filiolarum ]  vjd.  To  the  sisters  of  Sudbure 
convent  x  marks.  To  the  friars  of  Clar[e]  convent  vjs  viijd.  To  the  friars  of  Babwell  vj8  viijd. 
To  Agnes  Ray  my  best  gown.  The  unbequeathed  Residue,  my  debts  first  paid,  to  my  executors — 
namely,  Gilbert  my  son  &  Margaret  his  wife.  Nicholas  Hacon  to  be  supervisor. 

In  the  name  of  god  Amen.  I  Katherine  Partrych  [petrych  (sic)]  of  Aketon.  [Will.]  To- 
Gilbert  my  son  my  tenement  in  which  I  dwell  to  him  and  his  heirs.  To  the  said  Gilbert  all 
utensils  inside  and  outside  the  said  house  &  pertaining  to  the  tenement.  To  the  said  Gilbert  one 
lode  carte  j  tumbrell  j  plow  all  horses  with  trappings  [  fatter  is]  &  all  other  appurtenances  xij 
sheep  &  iij  cows  on  condition  that  he  pay  towards  the  fulfilling  of  a  certain  part  of  my 
testament  xl  marks.  My  tenement  at  le  tye  to  be  sold  &  from  the  proceeds  a  priest  to  be 
maintained  for  a  whole  year  to  officiate  for  the  soul  of  William  Partrych  [ptrych]  &  my  soul 
&  the  souls  of  our  benefactors.  To  Andrew  Wysbych  xx8.  Executed  at  Aketon  [date  and  year 
as  above].  Proved  at  Sudbure  4  July  1443. 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  book  “  Baldwyne,”  fo.  56  b. 


Hobart  Partarndjc  of  Jlrton,  1468. 

James  Thurgor  of  Aketon,  William  Sheldrake  of  Sudbury,  Gilbert  Wareyn,  John  Bryan,. 
Robert  Longe,  and  Robert  Parteryche  of  Aketon,  demise  to  Ann  Freman,  late  wife  of  John 
Freman  of  Hertest,  James  Ward,  James  Sped,  John  Ward  of  Shympling,  and  William  Cokshed, 
one  messuage,  7  acres  of  land,  one  rood  of  wood,  and  6cf.  rents  in  the  village  of  Aketon.. 
Dated  at  Aketon,  31  July,  8  Ed.  IV  [1468].  Ch.  253. 

Turner  and  Coxe’s  Cal.  of  Charters  and  Rolls  preserved  in  the  Bodl.  Lib.,  1878,  p.  410. 

Concerning  the  above  names,  the  following  Acton  Wills  were  proved  in  Archd.  Sudb.  :  Robert 
Thurgor  1462,  James  Thurgor  1474,  Walter  Pyrlyston  alias  Wareyn  1474,  Robert  Bryen  1424, 
John  Longe,  sen.,  1442,  John  Longe  1445;  and  that  of  Rob.  Partrich  of  Sudbury  (to  be  buried 
at  Acton)  in  P.C.C.,  1491,  Rob.  Longe  being  an  executor. 


PARTRIDGE  OF  ACTON. 


387 


®£stamntt  of  Milliam  ^artruclj  of  ^rton,  14S|* 

(Translated  from  contracted  Latin  and  shortened.)  In  the  name  of  god  Amen.  16  Feb. 

1483.  I  William  Partrych  [ptrych]  of  Aketon  in  the  Diocese  of  Norwich.  My  soul  to  god 

almighty,  blessed  mary,  &c.  My  Body  to  be  buried  in  the  churchyard  there.  To  the  high  altar 
of  the  same  church  iijs  iiijd.  To  the  same  church  for  building  xiijs  iiijd.  To  Dionis  my  wife 

my  messuage  with  appurtenances  in  which  I  dwell.  To  John  my  son  my  messuage  with  appur¬ 

tenances  which  lately  was  John  Copyn’s  [Copn].  To  Alice  my  daughter  my  messuage  in  Waldyngfeld 
magna  with  appurtenances  on  condition  that  she  be  governed  by  her  mother.  My  messuage  at 
ladiden  [or  ladidon]1  to  be  sold  for  payment  of  my  debts.  To  Dionis  my  wife  all  my  utensils 
chatties.  Executors  to  be  Dionis  my  wife  it  Roger  Partrych  [ptrych]  of  the  same  town. 

The  unbequeathed  Residue  to  them  to  spend  for  the  safety  of  my  soul.  To  the  same  Roger 

vjs  viijd  for  his  labour.  Witnesses :  Henry  Moorland,  Vicar  there,  it  Richard  Morell,  chaplain, 

with  others.  Proved  at  Sudbure  17  March  148f. 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  book  “  Hervy,”  fo.  293. 

The  Will,  dated  20  March  146f,  of  John  Copyn  of  Acton  was  proved,  Archd.  Sudb., 
30  Ap.  1471. 

In  1525,  Rob.  Partryche  of  Acton  owned  the  tenement  there  called  Coppins  or  Coppyns 
(see  his  Will,  infra). 

Richard  Aslott  of  Acton,  Will  dated  12  Dec.  1485,  left  residue  to  George  Aslott  his 
son  and  Roger  ptrych,  the  executors ;  but  the  latter  renounced  probate  (24  Jan.  148f,  Archd. 
Sudb.).  Roger  Partrich  was  also  an  ex’or  of  the  Will,  8  Dec.  1489,  of  his  brother  Rob. 
Partrich  of  Sudbury  (see  below). 


Mill  of  Hobart  ^artrirb  of  J^n&bttrg,  1489. 

In  dei  nomi[n]e  amen  the  viij  day  of  Decembyr  in  the  yere  of  our  Lord  god 
mcccclxxxxj  2  And  in  the  vth  yere  of  the  Reigne  of  kyng  Henry  the  vijth  I  Robard  Partrich 
thelder  of  Sudbury  in  the  Dio?  of  Norwich  in  goode  mynd  being  thankys  be  god  make  and 
ordeigne  this  my  testament  And  Last  Will  [fo.  6  b]  vndre  this  forme  that  folowith  ffirst  I 
bequeth  and  Recommende  my  soule  to  the  holy  Trynitie  oure  Lady  saint  Mary  and  to  all  the 
saintes  of  heuen  And  my  body  tobe  buriede  in  the  church  yarde  of  Aketon  next  the  buriell 
of  Agnes  my  first  Wif  Also  I  will  that  xxx  daies  next  aftre  my  decesse  dirige  and  masse  be 
kept  dayly  in  Aketon  church  for  the  soulis  of  me  and  hir  and  of  oure  frendes  Wherfor  I  will 
that  the  curate  of  the  church  shall  haue  dayly  with  his  masse  peny  iiijd  Euerich  [Every]  other 
clerke  ijd  euy  childe  that  can  [knows]  his  dirige  jd  And  euich  child  lernyng  his  dirige  oh 
[ obolus ,  a  halfpenny]  Also  I  bequeth  to  the  fryer  of  the  house  of  sudbury  at  the  nolacion  of 

1  One  of  the  tenants  named  in  the  I.P.M.  of  Thomas  Clerebeke  of  the  manor  of  Clerbeks  in  Aeton, 
gent.,  taken  18  Sept.  1527,  was  Tho.  de  Wod’  of  Lavenham,  who  held  an  acre  of  land  and  a  garden  lying  in 
ladyton.  A  well  in  Acton  called  Ladywell  is  mentioned  in  1501  (Copinger’s  Sujj.  Records  Sf  MSS.,  vol.  i,  p.  7). 

2  A  scribe’s  error  for  mcccclxxxix.  8  Dec.  5  Hen.  YII  was  in  1489,  not  in  1491.  This  Will  was  proved 
22  Oct.  1491. 


2  Z2 


388 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


the  prio1'  there  to  say  daily  during  the  said  xxx  dayes  placebo  and  dirige  with  masse  of 

Requiem  for  the  soules  aforesaide  vijs  vjd  And  beside  that  I  bequeth  that  [sic]  to  the  Prior 

and  coueut  of  the  same  friers  for  a  trentall  within  the  same  terme  tobe  don  xs  Item  vnder 
like  forme  to  a  frier  of  the  house  of  Clar[e]  vijs  vjd  and  for  a  trentall  there  xs  Also  in  like 
wise  to  a  frier  of  the  house  of  Rabwell  [Babwell  in  Fornham  All  Saints]  vijs  vjd  and  for  a 
trentall  there  xs  Item  I  bequeth  to  the  high  Aulter  of  the  Church  of  Alhalowen  in  Sudbury 
for  tythes  and  offeringes  witholden  or  necligently  forgoten  and  that  the  vicar  ther  pray  for  my 

soule  iijs  iiijd  Also  in  like  wise  to  the  high  Aulter  of  the  church  of  Aketon  vs  Item  I  will 

that  myn  executors  Immediatly  aftre  my  decesse  do  [cause]  tobe  made  a  Crucifix  of  the  pitie 
[passion]  of  our  lorde  Conueniently  tobe  sett  vndre  the  glas  windowe  with  oute  the  Chauncell 
ende  of  Alhalowen  in  Sudbury  beforesaid  with  this  scriptur  vndre  writen  pray  for  the  soule  of 
Robart  Partrich  with  the  day  and  yere  of  myn)  decesse  remBred  ther  Also  to  the  Repacion  of 
the  church  of  the  said  friers  in  Sudbury  xxs  Item  to  the  Repacion  of  the  belles  in  Aketon 
church  ijs  Also  to  the  making  or  gilting  of  A  newe  tabernacle  wt  an  Image  of  Alhalowen  in 
the  north  side  of  the  chancell  of  the  same  church  w4  xiijs  vd  which  I  owe  of  the  yift  of 
Thomas  Raynhrn  and  with  xxs  which  I  owe  of  the  yeft  of  Thomas  Gyer  of  Colchestr  x  marc 
Also  I  bequeth  to  the  Repacion  of  the  said  Church  of  Aketon  v  marcs  Item  to  the  kerving 
or  paynting  of  the  tabernakyll  w*  the  Image  of  the  Trinte  in  the  same  Church  xs  Also  to 

the  making  of  a  newe  tabernakyll  for  the  Image  of  or  lady  in  the  south  side  of  the  said 

Chauncell  of  Aketon  xxs  Also  I  bequeth  to  the  Repacion  of  the  high  wayes  most  noyous  in 

the  same  towne  aboute  Archedemys  and  pmentes  x  marc  Also  besid  vjs  viijd  which  I  owe  to 

the  fratenite  of  the  holy  gost  in  the  same  towne  I  bequeth  ther  vnto  vjs  viijd  Also  of  the 

money  growing  to  me  by  John  Dey  and  Johnson  I  bequeth  to  the  beying  of  a  Guynebell 

[Evenbell]  bell  to  the  said  church  of  Alhalowen  in  Sudbury  if  such  be  ther  bowth  [bought]  xxs 
and  els  that  money  in  other  Charitable  werks  tobe  disposed  by  myn  execute's  Providide  allweys 
that  myn  executors  be  natt  charged  with  myn  said  legacies  made  to  Aketon  Church  but  onely 
as  they  may  be  Recouered  of  my  dettes  Also  I  bequeth  A  Cough  [cow !]  price  viijs  to  finde 
and  maynten  continually  for  eumor  A  lyght  of  wax  befor  the  said  Image  of  Alhalowen  in 
Aketon  vndre  man)  and  forme  of  other  lightes  accustomede  ther  Item  I  bequeth  to  euych  [every 
one]  of  myn  godchildryn  xijd  in  money  tobe  paid  at  their  mariage  of  [mistake  for  “  or  ”]  full 
age  of  xxi  yeris  vndre  like  forme  allwaies  tobe  paid  Item  I  bequeth  to  John  my  brother  xxs 
Also  to  John  Howlott  of  Chelisworth  vs  Also  to  John  Mynsale  late  my  sunt  [servant]  a 
bullocke  or  ellis  in  money  therfor  iiijs  Item  to  Robert  Boston  sunt  if  he  vnto  his  mariage  or 

full  age  of  xx  yer  dwell  still  w*  Robert  my  sonne  w*  a  bedde  iiij  shep  [sheep]  and  A  [fo.  7  a] 

busshell  [of]  malt  xls  Also  to  Alice  Coston  late  my  sunt  with  .  xviij.  which  she  claymeth  of 
me  vjs  viijd  Also  to  JoBane  Ducke  my  sunt  a  litle  grene  chest  Also  to  Johanne  Smyth  my 
sunt  xijd  Also  of  xlli  ijs  iiijd  which  William  Crochyn  apon  A  true  accompte  betwene  us  made 
at  this  day  owith  to  me  clerely  for  purchase  of  lande  and  wollen  cloth  I  bequeth  therof  to 
the  same  William  and  to  grace  his  wif  my  doughter  vijli  xiijs  iiijd  And  to  euerich  of  Robert 
Agnes  Thomas  and  John  the  Childryn  of  them  xls  and  thay  rest  due  [there  remains  owing] 
clerely  by  the  same  William  Crochon  xxiiijli  ixs  st [sic]  to  be  paid  to  me  or  myn  assignes  by 
thagrement  of  the  same  William  at  v  paymentes  wk  in  iiij  yeris  next  aftre  the  date  of  this  pnt 
writing  as  by  an  obligacion  with  a  condicion  therupon  more  clerely  may  apper  wherfor  I  will  assigne 
that  if  it  like  nott  the  said  William  Crochon  during  my  lif  or  ellis  Immediatly  aftre  my  decesse 
to  enseale  and  for  his  dede  to  deliuer  vnto  the  behoffe  of  pformacion  of  this  my  last  will  the 


PARTRIDGE  OF  ACTON. 


389 


said  obligacion  or  ellis  if  the  same  William  will  not  be  bounden  to  myn  executors  to  discharge 
them  ageinst  the  said  iiij  Childryn  of  the  said  Willia  at  ther  mariage  or  full  Age  of  xxi  yer 

of  the  said  money  to  them  hequethen  than  I  will  [th]at  my  said  bequests  to  the  same  William 

his  Wif  and  Children  made  as  I  haue  aboue  rehersid  shalbe  voide  and  of  no  strenght  And 

that  it  shall  than  be  laufull  to  myn  execute's  to  recou  of  the  same  William  and  of  his  assignes 

the  said  hole  sume  of  xlii  ijs  iiijd  And  to  dispose  it  as  they  shall  thinke  most  to  the  pleasur 
of  god  ifc  for  the  helthe  of  my  soules  aforesaid  And  if  any  or  all  of  the  said  children  befor 
mariege  or  full  age  of  xxjth  yer  decesse  than  I  will  the  pte  or  ptes  of  one  or  of  all  that  so 
decessen  Remayne  clerly  to  the  disposicion  of  the  said  William  on  his  behalf  pformyng  the 
pmessis  and  of  grace  his  wif  And  of  their  assignes  Also  I  bequeth  to  pe  same  grace  my  longe 
Russett  gown  Also  I  bequeth  to  Maud  my  wif  she  finding  myn  buring  cloth  my  best  blew  gown 
my  mantell  and  my  typett  of  frise  ij  horse  and  a  bullocke  w4  my  hostilments  Come  and  other 
stuff  of  household  in  Sudbury  Also  I  will  that  all  my  shep  [sheep]  and  corne  in  Aketon  before- 
said  be  sold  to  the  pformacion  of  this  my  last  will  of  which  money  I  will  and  also  charge 
myn  executors  that  Cs  in  xxxli  yerys  next  folowing  aftr  my  decesse  shalbe  disposed  in  the 
same  towne  conueniently  that  is  to  say  vs  yerely  to  the  keping  of  a  yer  mynde  [year-mind  or 
anniversary]  for  my  soule  with  the  soules  befor  rehersed  Also  I  bequeth  to  Robert  my  sonne 
the  Residue  of  all  myn  horses  and  bests  and  clothis  to  my  body  w[4]  my  spruce  Compter  and 
Gmdences  [Evidences]  in  the  same  Also  I  will  that  the  same  Robert  shall  haue  my  tenement 
called  Smethes  in  Aketon  w4  thappurtenucs  to  hym  his  heiris  and  assignes  for  eumor  Also- 
I  will  the  same  Robert  and  Isabell  his  wif  shall  haue  Jontly  to  them  their  heiris  and 
assignes  for  eumore  my  tenement  colled  Rayes  w4  thappurtennces  And  the  land  which  that  I 
purchased  of  John  Clopton  esquier  Also  I  bequeth  my  tenementes  called  Archendemys  stokes 
and  pmenters  in  Aketon  beforesaid  to  Maud  my  wif  during  her  lif  and  one  yere  complete  next 
folowing  aftre  hir  decesse  and  so  don  I  will  my  said  iij  tenements  remayne  to  Robt  my  sonne 
during  his  lif  and  aftr  his  decesse  if  he  haue  any  sonne  or  sonnes  ]vln  Able  to  purchase  the 
same  iij  tenementes  or  ellis  ij  or  iij  sonnes  in  Abilitie  to  [fo.  7  b]  purchace  the  same  iij 
tenementes  I  will  the  sale  of  theme  to  be  made  by  myn  execute's  or  by  their  assignes  vndre 
this  forme  ffirst  one  sonne  to  haue  a  pferment  in  the  purchasse  of  Archendemys  by  xiijli  better 
chepe  thane  a  stranger  of  Stokes  vii  better  chepe  than  a  stranger  And  in  pmenters  xls  vndre 
the  price  of  a  stranger  And  if  none  of  the  same  sonnes  be  than  not  able  nor  willing  to 

purchase  the  same  tenements  I  will  that  xxli  commyng  of  the  sale  therof  be  disposed  amonge- 
them  of  which  sale  I  will  also  xxli  be  disposed  to  one  doughter  or  amonge  all  the  doughters. 
of  the  same  Roberte  if  thanne  any  be  or  ellis  to  the  Repacion  of  Aketon  church  and  to  the' 
high  wayes  ther  Item  beside  that  o}>r  xxli  therof  to  the  Repacion  of  the  same  church  of 
Aketon  Item  xxli  to  the  Repacion  of  the  high  wayes  ther  in  the  same  towne  betwen  Sudbury 
and  Lauenham  Item  to  the  finding  of  a  pst  to  sing  by  an  hole  yere  for  the  soules  of  me  and 

my  frendes  in  the  said  church  of  Aketon  ix  marce  And  to  the  house  of  friers  of  Sudbury  for 

the  same  soules  ther  to  be  praid  for  I  bequeth  therof  v  marce  The  Residue  of  all  my  money 

comyng  of  the  same  sale  I  will  shalbe  disposide  in  almes  Dedes  to  poure  people  and  in  other 

charitable  werks  as  they  shall  thinke  most  to  the  pleasur  of  god  And  if  the  said  Roberte  my 

sonne  haue  non  such  sonne  or  sonnes  to  purchase  these  iij  tenementes  or  any  of  them  than  I 

will  the  sonne  or  sonnes  of  the  said  William  Crochon  and  Grace  his  Wif  shall  haue  like 

pferment  and  fauor  in  price  of  the  same  iij  tenementes  as  aboue  is  Rehersid  to  the  sonnes  of 
the  said  Robert  my  sonne  And  if  none  such  be  than  to  the  sonnes  of  Roger  my  brother- 


390 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


vndre  like  forme  And  if  none  such  be  thanne  to  the  sonnes  of  John  Partrich  my  brother  to 
haue  A  like  pferment  be  fore  a  stranger  Also  I  will  my  tenement  called  Strutts  blynd- 
mannes  crofte  by  rayn  executors  Immediatly  aftre  my  decesse  be  sold  And  as  well  the  money 
therof  commyng  as  the  xiijli  xiijs  iiijd  to  me  by  the  said  Roger  my  brother  owing  for  and 
upon  the  sale  of  a  tenement  called  Deyes  and  with  a  croft  called  gotescroft  in  Aketon  shalbe 
disposid  to  this  the  pformacion  of  this  my  last  will  And  also  I  will  that  all  my  shepp  [sheep] 
and  corne  in  the  same  towne  of  Aketon  be  sold  to  the  pformacion  of  the  same  will  Also  I 
will  that  my  two  tenementes  in  Lauenhm  which  I  late  purchaside  of  the  said  John  my  brother 
And  stane  [stand]  yit  chargid  for  the  morer  [greater]  pte  of  payment  of  the  same  at  the  fest 
of  saint  Mighell  tharchaungill  which  shal  be  in  the  yere  of  oure  lorde  mcccclxxxxij  be  sold  to 
the  same  John  if  he  than  or  at  any  tyme  Athishalf  [on  his  behalf]  will  purchase  and  pay  for 
them  like  wise  as  I  haue  and  am  chargid  to  pay  for  the  same  or  tobe  sold  to  a  nother 
sufficiant  psonne  And  I  will  that  xti  commyng  of  this  sale  be  truly  disposed  in  sur  and 
sufficiant  Repacion  of  the  said  high  wayes  than  most  noyous  in  Aketon  betwene  Sudbury  and 

Lauenhm  The  Residue  of  all  my  goodes  And  Catalles  aboue  not  bequethen  aftre  my  detts 

truly  paide  and  this  my  pnt  testament  and  last  will  fulfilled  I  will  and  bequeth  tobe  disposed 
in  masses  Aimes  Dedes  and  other  werks  of  Charite  for  the  soules  be  foresad  by  myn  executors 
whome  I  name  the  said  Robert  Partrich  my  sonne  Roger  Partrich  and  Robert  longe  And  I 
bequeth  to  the  said  Roger  for  his  due  attendaunce  and  labor  in  this  behalf  xls  Item  in  like 

wise  to  the  said  Robert  longe  xxs  And  of  theme  in  all  the  pmisses  Rightfully  tobe  pformed 

and  fulfillid  I  make  and  in  the  Worship  of  allmighty  god  besech  the  venlable  and  my  Right 
confident  marstre  Thomas  Appulton  [of  Lit.  Waldingfield,  see  S.M.F.,  i,  329]  gentillman  tobe 
supuisor  and  cohelper  Willing  and  Rewarding  to  hym  for  his  Diligent  labor  xls  Thes  Wittenessing 
sir  John  Morell  the  vicar  [fo.  8  a]  of  Alhalowen  in  Sudbury  Sir  Henry  Moreland  vicar  of 
Aketon  William  Parker  of  Sudbury  and  other  yoven  [given]  at  Sudbury  the  day  and  yere 
abouesaid. 

Proved  at  Lambeth  by  Rob.  Partrich,  ex’or,  22  Oct.  1491.  P.C.C.,  1  Dogett. 

This  will,  with  many  foot-notes  explaining  words  and  phrases,  etc.,  is  printed  at  pages 
153-158  of  vol.  x  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  Suffolk  Institute  of  Archaeology.  The  will  (see 
below)  of  Robert  Partryche  of  Acton,  son  of  the  above  testator,  shows  that  he  was  childless, 
and  that  all  the  lands  passed  to  the  Crochen  (Crochon  or  Crochyn)  family. 


Kill  of  JItafoite  Jlartmcl)  of  ^nDburo,  1494* 

In  dei  nomine  amen  The  xxv  day  of  the  Moneth  of  ffebruarij  the  yere  of  oure  lord  god 
'jmcccclxxxxiiij  I  Mawde  Parterich  of  Sudbury  Wedew  hoole  of  mynde  and  of  good  Remembraunce 
make  this  my  last  Wille  in  this  maner  folowyng  ffyrst  I  bequeith  my  sowle  to  almyghty  Ihu 
to  our  blessed  Lady  saint  Mary  and  to  all  the  company  of  hevyn  And  my  body  to  be  buried 
In  the  Chappell  by  my  husbond  Late  Thomas  Wellis  of  the  pish  of  Alhallow  in  the  said  towne 
of  Sudbury  Item  I  bequeith  to  the  high  aulter  of  the  said  church  for  my  oblacions  and  tythes 
forgeten  xxs  Item  I  bequeith  to  the  High  aulter  of  Saynt  Gregory  of  the  said  towne  vjs  viijd 
Item  I  will  at  my  day  of  burying  that  euy  preeste  comyng  to  my  dirige  haue  iiijd  euy  man 


PARTRIDGE  OE  ACTON. 


391 


that  is  a  clerk  ijd  and  to  children  that  be  darks  and  canne  synge  jd  Item  I  will  that  the 
ffreres  dominike  of  the  said  towne  syng  a  dirige  for  my  sowle  that  same  day  of  my  burying 
hauyng  for  ther  labour  xs  Item  I  will  that  Syr  John  Morell  vicar  of  the  said  church  of 
Alhallow  say  a  trentall  of  saint  Gregory  for  my  sowle  and  all  my  frendis  as  sone  as  it  may 
be  done  aftre  my  deceasse  hauyng  for  his  labour  xs  Item  I  will  that  the  said  ffreres  of  Sudbury 
say  a  nodir  [another]  trentall  within  xxx  dayes  aftir  my  deceasse  hauyng  for  ther  labor  xs 
Item  my  vijth  day  and  my  xxxl1  day  I  will  the  preestis  and  clerkes  of  the  said  church  syng 
a  dirige  for  my  sowle  and  my  frendis  soules  And  I  will  that  those  said  too  dayes  be  gevyn 
to  preests  and  clerks  and  to  pou  folke  ther  moste  nede  ys  and  specially  at  my  xxxth  day  v  rhke 
Item  I  give  to  Willia  Marchall  frere  of  this  said  howse  a  Whight  Abyte  Item  I  geve  to  the 
said  William  to  say  A  trentall  for  my  sowle  and  my  frendis  sowlis  xs  Item  I  will  that  myne 
executors  and  supvysor  do  make  the  ffreres  mylle  hous  in  the  said  freris  [friary]  yf  I  make  it 
nat  my  selffe  by  [in]  my  lyfe  and  that  they  be  sette  [there  be  spent]  ther  Aponne  x  iSc  Item 
I  will  that  the  said  ffreres  of  Sudbury  syng  euy  yere  myne  obite  for  me  and  my  ffrends  soulis 
the  terme  of  x  yere  aftir  my  deceasse  hauyng  euy  yere  xs  Item  I  geue  to  the  said  church  of 
alhallow  to  pray  for  me  and  my  ffrendis  sowlis  a  chales  of  Syluer  and  gilt  price  xti  Item  I 
geve  to  Annes  brounesmyth  my  Suster  my  gowne  of  Skarlet  ffurre  and  all  as  it  is  Item  I  geve 
to  the  said  Annes  my  Suster  my  beste  pair  of  bedis  of  Corail  during  her  lyfe  and  a.f?  her 

deceasse  I  will  that  Mawde  my  goddaugh?  her  dough?  haue  the  to  geve  and  selle  Item  I  geue 
to  Iche  of  her  children  as  many  as  she  hathe  vjs  viijd  I  geve  to  Wyllia  parkys  children  of 

Sudbury  A  foreseid  whos  names  be  called  Henry  John  Alis  and  Elen  to  Iche  of  those  iiij 

[children]  vjs  viijd  whanne  they  come  to  mariage  And  yf  it  happe  any  of  those  Children  as 
wele  of  my  Susters  children  as  of  William  pkers  that  be  vnmaried  to  dye  or  they  be  maried 
thanne  I  wyll  that  the  money  be  disposed  in  dedis  of  Aimes  to  pouer  folkes  by  myne  executo's 
and  supvisor  to  pray  for  me  and  all  my  ffrendis  sowlis  Item  I  geve  to  Richard  herward  of 
Sybillingham  [Sible  Hedingham,  Essex]  vjs  viijd  Item  I  geve  to  Isabell  Webbe  of  the  seid 
towne  vjs  viijd  Item  I  geve  to  Alyson  Gyon  of  yeldam  [in  Essex]  vjs  viijd  Item  I  geve  to 
Isabell  Alen  of  hyngham  ad  Castrum  [Castle  Hedingham,  Essex]  vjs  viijd  Item  to  John  her 

sonne  vjs  viijd  And  to  Iche  of  her  children  vjs  viijd  all  these  A  fore  Rehersed  of  children  and 
those  folowing  to  be  paid  of  [by]  myne  executors  And  sup  visor  as  it  may  be  allewed  and  hadde 

Item  I  geve  to  Annes  Ilger  of  lialstedde  my  Russet  gowne  And  vjs  viijd  Item  I  geve  vnto 

Isabell  Drayles  my  Musterler  gowne  coler  [collar]  and  Cuffis  lyned  with  velwett  Item  I  geve 
to  Isabell  ptrich  myne  engreyned  gowne  with  oute  the  ffurre  Item  I  geve  to  Johanne  her  Suster 

Wyf  to  Robert  Cowper  of  Edwardstowne  iijs  iiijd  Item  I  geve  to  Margarete  palmer  my  suaunt 

vjs  viijd  and  A  couerlett  Item  I  geve  to  alis  hyne  Servaunt  vjs  viijd  And  a  Whight 
coverlet  with  blew  brushes  Item  I  geve  to  Mawde  bolton  doughter  to  Isabell  drayles  vjs  viijd 
Item  I  geve  to  Willia  herward  thelder  of  the  pishe  of  saint  Gregory  vjs  viijd  Item  I  geve  to 
Iche  of  his  Children  vjs  viijd  Item  I  geve  to  Johanne  Russell  xijd  Item  I  geve  to  Annes 
laborer  xijd  Item  I  will  that  my  brode  clothis  within  my  howse  and  withoute  aftir  the  day  of 
my  deceasse  be  sold  by  the  discrecion  of  myne  executors  and  supvisor  and  the  money  therof 
had  and  alloued  to  be  disposed  vndir  this  condicion  that  is  to  say  A  seculer  preeste  of  good 
condicion  to  sing  for  me  and  my  ffrendis  in  the  seid  church  of  Alhallow  at  Jhus  Aulter  by  the 
terme  of  iij  yere  And  the  Residew  to  pou  folke  Item  I  geve  to  the  seid  towne  of  Sudbury 
to  haue  the  Custume  of  the  said  towne  free  for  euyr  xxli  vndir  this  condicion  folowyng  that 
is  to  sey  if  the  seid  menne  of  the  same  towne  or  of  any  odir  towne  will  take  it  in  hande  to 


392 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


/ 

make  it  ffree  within  the  space  of  vij  yere  after  my  decease  I  will  that  the  seid  xx^ti  goo  to 
eyed  [aid]  it  or  els  I  will  that  myne  executors  and  supvisor  dispose  the  seid  money  for  my 
sowle  and  my  ffrendis  havyng  A  preeste  Seculer  to  sing  for  my  sowle  and  my  ffrendes  in  Jhus 
chappell  of  the  seid  pish  tyll  xli  of  the  seid  money  be  spent  And  the  odir  xii  I  will  myne 

executors  or  supvisor  geve  it  to  pouer  folkes  of  the  seid  towne  eury  friday  vjd  tyll  the  seid 
money  be  spent  Item  I  geve  to  the  Cawsey  [Causeway]  which  my  husbond  late  Robert  Partrich 
made  by  yonde  Walter  ffrannces  cawsey  in  the  towne  of  Twynstedde  [Twinstead]  in  Essex  to 
Repair  [23  c]  it  A  geyne  vti  Item  I  geve  to  Maistres  Margery  Est  my  Crymesen  [Crimson] 
gowne  With  the  ffurre  Item  I  will  that  my  obite  be  kepte  in  the  church  of  Alhallow  a 
aforeseid  as  long  as  my  goodis  vnbyset  [unspent]  and  vnbequeithen  will  strecche  to  Item  I  will 
that  my  howse  which  I  dwellyn  be  sold  aftir  my  deceasse  And  the  house  in  balidon  [Ballingdon] 
in  the  Countie  of  Essex  And  all  othir  duels  [valuables]  whether  they  be  Masurs  Sponys 
[Spoons]  pecis  Girdillis  bedis  [beads,  rosaries]  or  any  odir  thingis  as  potts  pannys  and  all 

vtensillis  of  hustilments  of  myne  house  by  the  discrecion  of  myne  execute's  and  suseer  and  the 
money  therof  hadde  and  allewed  I  will  that  they  therwith  pforme  this  my  Last  Wille  I  will 

also  yf  any  of  my  kynred  wille  bye  any  of  those  said  liousis  that  they  haue  the  ^ferment  A 
fore  any  vder  and  xx*  within  the  price  And  in  lyke  wise  of  any  oder  vtensill  or  hustilments 
I  will  they  haue  It  [it]  within  the  price  of  any  oder  man  Item  all  my  detts  whedir  they  be 
by  byll  or  any  odyr  obligacions  of  rrlcbaunts  of  London  or  any  odir  place  wher  so  euyr  they 

may  be  founde  I  will  that  myne  execute's  and  supvisor  performe  this  my  Laste  will  therwith 

Item  I  geve  to  Wykam  powle  [Wickham  S.  Paul,  Essex]  A  Masseboke  price  vli  Item  I  will 

that  xiij  pou  folke  which  be  my  bedde  folks  haue  A  genste  myne  xxx*1  day  Iche  of  them  a 

blake  gowne  Item  I  Requir  and  pray  all  my  feoffeis  that  bene  enfeoffed  with  me  in  my  seid 
houses  to  delyu  Astate  whanne  they  be  Required  to  myne  execute's  And  supvisor  The  Resydew 
of  all  my  goodis  nat  sette  [spent]  nor  byqueithen  l  charge  and  Require  myne  executors  and 
supviso1  that  they  dispose  them  in  almis  dedis  and  amending  of  high  weyes  a  boute  the  seid 
towne  of  Sutbury  that  it  may  be  moste  ple§  to  alniyghty  Ihu  and  to  the  help  and  cowmeforth 
[comfort]  of  my  sowle  and  all  my  ffrendis  sowlis  whome  I  sette  [appoint]  and  ordayn  John  Reynold 
of  this  said  pish  Tanner  John  Harvy  ffuller  and  Syr  Willia  lynsey  parson  of  Glemesford  Supvisour 
of  this  my  Laste  wille  Iche  of  them  having  for  ther  Labour  xls  In  Wittnes  wherof  vnto  this 
$sent  wrytyng  I  haue  putte  my  Sealle  made  the  day  and  the  yere  a  boue  Rehersed  At 

Sudbury  A  fore  seid  [No  probate.] 

P.C.C.,  23  Vox. 

This  will,  with  many  foot-notes  explaining  words  and  phrases,  etc.,  is  printed  at  pages 
158-162  of  vol.  x  of  the  Proceedings  of  the  Suffolk  Institute  of  Archaeology. 


SMI  of  KoI mt  partnjcije  of  JUton,  1525* 

(Shortened  from  a  copy  printed  verbatim  in  The  East  Anglian,  vol.  xi,  pp.  274-277.)  In 
the  name  of  god  Amen  the  xx  September  mlicccccxxvtie  and  xvij  henry  theighte  I  Robert 
Partryche  of  Acton  in  the  countye  of  Suff  yeman  being  hooll  of  mynde  and  of  good  and 
pfighte  remembraunce  being  thankes  be  god  ffirst  I  giue  my  Soule  vnto  all  mightye  god  my 
maker  and  redemor  and  vnto  hys  gloriouse  mother  our  ladye  saincte  Marye  and  to  all  the 


PARTRIDGE  OF  ACTON. 


393 


hoolie  companye  of  heuen  my  bodye  to  be  buryed  in  the  churche  of  all  hallowse  in  Acton.  Ynto 

the  highe  auter  of  the  same  churche  for  my  tythes  and  offerings  by  me  forgotten  or  necligentlie 

wtholding  in  discharging  of  my  soule  n]s  mjd.  To  the  reparacons  of  the  same  churche  vjs  vnjd. 
Vnto  Isabell  my  wyff  my  tente  which  I  dwell  in  and  a  pece  of  lande  which  I  purchased  of 
John  ffermor  of  Lavenham  gent  To  holde  to  hyr  and  to  hyr  Assigneys  for  euer.  Also  my 
tenament  called  Coppins  wlall  maner  of  lands  medowes  pasturs  and  ffedings  [fo.  116  a]  in  Acton 
To  holde  to  hyr  During  hyr  naturall  lyff  keping  sufficient  reparacons  and  payeng  the  rents  therof 
yerelie  accustomed  And  after  hyr  Decesse  I  wyll  that  the  proffights  of  Coppyns  goo  to  the 
ffyndinge  of  an  obytte  whn  Acton  churche  for  fyue  years  for  my  soule  and  all  xpian  Soules 
And  after  the  v  years  be  expyred  then  I  wyll  it  be  putt  in  ffeoffment  into  thands  of  xij 

honest  psons  of  Acton  for  [1]  and  xix  veres  to  thentent  that  the  proffights  may  goo  yerelie  to 
the  reparacons  of  Acton  churche  by  thadvise  of  myne  Executours  [sic]  and  his  Executors  And 
the  ffeoffs  [rights]  of  the  same  And  after  [1]  and  xix  yeres  I  wyll  Coppyns  be  solde  by  the 
Churchwardens  of  the  same  Towne  that  then  shall  ffortune  to  be  and  by  him  that  god  shall 
prouyde  to  be  heyre  vnto  Thomas  Clarbeck  gent  [the  executor]  soo  he  be  dwellin  [fo.  116  b]  in 
Acton  and  be  of  full  age  And  the  monye  thereof  comynge  I  wyll  }’t  be  dysposed  in  Deds  of 
charytye  w4in  the  same  Towne  by  their  discrecons.  I  wyll  that  John  Crochen  [probably 

testator’s  nephew]  haue  the  tenemet  in  Acton  called  Archedoms  and  that  Edmund  Crochen 
[1  testator’s  grandnephew]  haue  the  i]  tenements  called  Stooks  and  pmenters  in  Acton  each 
payeng  therfor  to  myne  Executors  [sic]  such  soomes  of  monye  for  hys  parte  of  the  sale  of  the 
premysss  of  and  for  diuerse  legac[ie]s  of  my  ffaders  wyll  which  ys  yet  behynde  vnpayde  to  be 
Donne  in  Deds  of  charytye  in  suche  forme  as  yt  Doothe  appere  by  the  same  wyll  by  my 
Executor  And  whereas  I  haue  doon  diuerse  costs  in  Deds  of  charytye  as  well  in  ffyndinge  of 
a  [fo.  117  a]  preste  making  of  highe  wayes  as  other wyse,  entending,  [sic]  to  haue  allowaunce 
therof  of  the  sale  of  the  premysss  before  Assyned  to  John  Crochen  and  Edmund  I  wyll  that 
yf  yt  may  be  allowed  bothe  by  the  Lawe  and  good  conscience  that  all  the  costs  so  by  me 
doone  in  such  Deds  of  charytye  according  vnto  my  ffathers  wyll  and  suffycyet  proof  made 
thereof  to  myne  Executor  that  yt  be  equallye  Deuidyd  betwene  John  Crochen  and  Edmund  by 
my  executor  in  the  sale  of  the  same  Lands  and  tents  to  them  before  assigned  yf  J ohn  wyll 
agree  to  the  ptycon  as  I  haue  Declared  by  this  my  wyll  vnto  Edmund  of  Stooks  and  pmenters 
And  yf  John  Crochen  wyll  in  noowyse  agree  to  the  same  Dyuysyon  of  the  premysss  Than 
[Then]  I  wyll  that  John  haue  the  preferment  of  the  sale  of  Stooks  and  pmenters  payeng  therfor 
to  myne  Executor  such  Soomes  as  ys  behynde  vnpayde  as  Edmund  Crochen  shuld  haue  doon 
[fo.  117bl  to  the  pformaunce  of  my  ffathers  wyll  than  [then]  I  wyll  Edmund  shall  haue  in 
monye  xxxv11  of  the  sayd  costs  by  me  Donne  yf  yt  may  be  allowed  by  the  Lawe  and  con¬ 
science  to  be  payde  vnto  hym  ymedyatlye  after  the  sale  of  the  premysss  made  vnto  John  Crochen 
And  yf  yt  may  not  be  allowed  then  I  wyll  Edmund  shall  haue  my  tehte  which  Legatte 
Dwellith  in  To  haue  to  hym  for  euer  And  ffurther  I  wyll  Edmund  shall  haue  Coppyns 
ymedyatlye  after  the  Decesse  of  Isabell  myne  wyff  To  haue  to  hym  for  euer  and  my  gifte 
therof  before  Declared  to  the  same  churche  to  be  voyed  And  ffurther  I  wyll  that  yf  John 
Crochen  and  Edmund  lovinglye  doo  agree  for  the  ptycon  of  Archedems  Stooks  and  pmenters  as 
I  haue  before  Declaryd  [fo.  118  a]  Than  [Then]  I  wyll  that  Coppyns  after  the  Decesse  of 
Isabell  myne  wyffe  kepe  myne  obytte  for  the  sayd  fyue  yeares  And  ymedyatlye  afterwarde  the 
proffights  to  be  ymployed  to  the  reparacons  of  Acton  churche  as  I  haue  before  declared  and  my 
tente  which  Legate  Dwellith  in  Then  I  wyll  shalbe  solde  And  the  monye  therof  comynge  I  wyll 

3  A 


394 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


yt  be  ymployed  bo  the  payenge  of  my  Debts  The  resydewe  of  all  my  goods  and  cattallis  mouable 
and  vnmouable  after  my  Debts  ffyrst  payde  my  burieng  Donne  and  this  my  pnte  testament  and 
Last  wyll  fullfylled  I  comytte  them  hoolye  vnto  myne  Executor  to  deuyde  in  iij  parts  and  one 
pte  to  Dispose  for  my  soule  and  all  xpen  soules  the  i]  pte  to  Isabell  my  wyff  and  the  njde 
equallye  betwene  John  Crochen  and  Edmund  And  I  make  to  be  my  Executor  Thomas  Clarbeck 
gent  And  I  giue  vnto  hym  for  hys  Labor  and  busines  herin  to  be  hadd  [blank]  These  being 

witenesse  John  Crochen  Edmand  Crochen  John  Clarke  notary  w*  other  moo  Proved  [fo.  118  b] 
30  Oct.  1525  by  the  executor. 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  book  “  Brydone,”  fo.  115  b  el  seq. 

Thomas  Clarbeck  or  Clerbeck,  gentleman,  the  executor,  was  the  last  male  heir  of  an 

ancient  family  of  knightly  rank  long  seated  at  Clerbeck  Manor  in  Acton  (Copinger’s  Manors  of 
Suffolk,  vol.  i,  pp.  6,  9-12).  He  was  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Clerbeck,  and  grandson  of  Andrew 
Clerbeck  (died  1500).  He  died  7  Dec.  1526,  and,  at  an  inquisition  held  at  Eye  on  18  Sept. 
1527,  it  was  found  that  he  held  a  messuage  called  Clerbeks,  84  acres  of  land,  12  of  wood, 
6  of  meadow,  4  of  pasture,  and  xxxis  viiijd  annual  rents,  in  Acton,  Kettlebaston,  Sudbury, 
Melford,  and  Preston,  and  that  Joan,  wife  of  William  Ttriche,  was  his  kinswoman  [aunt]  and 
next  heir  (to  wit,  daughter  of  Andrew,  father  of  Thomas,  father  of  the  said  Thomas),  and  that 
she  was  aged  fifty  years  and  more.  The  smallness  of  the  estate  may  have  been  because  Andrew 
Clerebek  was  sometime  an  outlaw,  pardoned  in  1477-78  (Copinger’s  Suffolk  Records  <&  MSS., 
vol.  i,  p.  7). 

Thomas  Clerbeck  was  probably  quite  a  young  man  when  he  died  in  1526,  and  it  is 
hardly  likely  that  Robert  Partryche,  when  he  made  him  his  executor  only  fifteen  months  before, 
thought  that  “  hym  that  god  shall  prouyde  to  be  heyre  vnto  Thomas  Clarbeck  gent  soo  he  be 
dwellin  in  Acton  and  be  of  full  age  ”  would  be  Joan,  wife  of  William  Partriche.  No  evidence 

of  relationship  between  this  William  and  Robert  Partryche  (the  testator)  has  yet  been  found, 

but  it  is  highly  probable  that  they  were  related,  and,  in  a  tabular  pedigree  which  follows,  the 
degree  of  consanguinity  is  conjectured  to  have  been  first-cousin-once-removed.  Joan  Partriche  died 
in  1530,  and  “  the  manor  passed  to  her  nephews  William  Lucy,  Henry  Mack-William,  Edmund 
Walgrave,  Roger  Martin,  Richard  Merton,  Edward  Danyell,  Thomas  Ligate,  Thomas  Smerte, 
clerk,  and  John  Cordall,”  and  “was  sold  to  Thomas  Daniel.”1  In  1619,  “the  cheefe  howse  of 
the  Daniells  is  now  buylte  ”  where  the  “  famyly  of  yB  Clerebecks  ”  was  formerly  seated.2  It  is 
now  called  Acton  Place. 

The  Clerbeck  shield — Ermine  three  bars  Gules,  each  charged  with  as  many  crosses  patee 
Or8 — was  quartered  by  the  Rookwoods  through  the  mariiage,  about  1300,  of  Alan  de  Rokewood 
of  Acton  with  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  coheir  of  Walter  de  Clerbecke.3  It  is  said  to  be  on 
the  Rookwood  tomb  (1  1520-21)  in  Stanningfield  church,4  and  in  a  window  of  Hengrave  church. 

If  Joan  Partriche  had  left  issue,  Clerbeck  Manor  would  not  have  passed  at  her  death  to 
her  nine  “  nephews.”  It  is  therefore  conjectured  that  William  Partriche  was  a  widower  when  he 
married  her. 

In  1523-24  (subsidy  yff),  three  Partriches  appear  at  Acton  :  (1)  Robert  P.  (will  above), 
assessed  at  £24,  taxed  £1.4.0;  (2)  Robert  P.,  “  servaunt,”  £1,  taxed  4d  ;  (3)  George  P.  (will  below, 
desiring  burial  at  Lavenham),  £2,  taxed  Is.  No.  (2)  was  perhaps  Rob.  P.  “my  Cosen  [nephew]” 
mentioned  in  said  George  P.’s  will.  In  1524-25  (subsidy  L§£),  Robert  P,  of  Acton  was  assessed  at  £40. 

1  Copinger’s  Manors  of  Suffolk,  vol.  i,  p.  10.  3  Ibid.,  p.  125. 

2  Coll.  Top.  Gen.,  vol.  ii,  p.  124.  4  Proceedings  Suff.  Inst.  Arch.,  vol.  iii,  p.  310. 


PARTRIDGE  OF  ACTON. 


395 


Mill  of  Qkorgc  |JatmcIje  of  Uabcttljam,  154f. 

(Shortened  from  a  copy  printed  verbatim  in  The  East  Anglian,  vol.  xi,  p.  311.)  In  the 
name  of  god  amen  the  xuj  martch  1542  I  George  Pateriche  sicke  in  bodye  and  whole  of  mynde 
and  of  good  remembrance  ffirst  I  bequeth  my  soule  to  almyghtye  god  my  maker  and  redemer 
to  his  mother  our  ladye  saynt  Marye  and  to  all  ye  holye  company  of  heauen  my  bodye  to  be 
Buryed  in  ye  church  yearde  of  Lavenham  .  To  ye  hye  aulter  of  ye  sayd  church  for  my  tythes 
and  offeringes  necligently  by  me  forgotten  or  wthhould  viijd  .  To  my  brother  Roger  ptriche  xs 
and  I  will  xiij  pore  people  shall  haue  xujrt  at  the  daye  of  my  Buryall  to  praye  for  my  soule  and 
al  Christian  [fo.  404  a]  soules  .  To  Robert  my  Cosen  [1  nephew]  wth  whom  I  ame  and  haue 
bine  longe  sicke  for  his  payne  and  diligent  laboure  taken  for  me  all  ye  rest  dew  [residue]  of 
my  goods  cattells  and  debts  not  bequethed  the  wth  sayd  Robert  Ptriche  my  cosen  I  make  my 
sole  executor  witnes  Thomas  Eccleston  my  gostlye  father  [No  probate.] 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  book  “  Longe,”  fo.  403  b  et  seq. 

During  1558-1611  there  is  only  one  entry  of  the  name  in  Lavenham  parish-registers  : 
John  Lyllye  and  Eliz.  Patritche  were  married  14  Feb.  15|^.  Those  of  the  adjoining  parishes  of 
Cockfield,  Alpheton,  Long  Melford,  and  Preston  have  none  before  1600.  Great  Waldingfield 
has  one  entry  before  1600  :  Thomas  Partiche  [sic]  was  buried  12  Feb.  154^. 

George  Pateriche,  the  testator,  desired  burial  in  Lavenham  churchyard,  but  does  not  state 
that  his  cousin  (probably  nephew)  Robert  Partriche,  “  wth  whom  I  ame  and  haue  bine  longe 
sicke,”  lived  there.  Lavenham  is  about  7£  miles  S.W.  of  Great  Finborough,  and  it  is  not 
improbable  that  this  Robert  was  identical  with  the  Robert  Partridge  of  Finborough  who  married 
Margaret  Nunn,  died  before  25  Dec.  1558  (see  p.  164),  and  was  father  of  Robert  of  Finborough 
who  entered  his  pedigree,  and  had  his  arms  registered,  at  the  Visitation  of  1577  (see  p.  162). 


Mill  of  Hsbcll  fartrirlj  of  Acton,  1545. 

(Shortened  from  a  copy  printed  verbatim  in  The  East  Anglian,  vol.  xi,  pages  311-312.) 
In  the  name  of  god  Amen  the  xvijth  December  1545  &  xxxvij  yeare  of  our  Soveraigne  Lord 
kynge  Henrye  the  viij  of  Ingland  ffrance  and  Irelande  kynge,  and  immediatly  next  vnder  god 
of  the  church  of  Inglande  and  Irelande  the  supreme  heade  I  Isbell  Partrich  of  Acton  in  the 
dioces  of  Norwich  Wedowe  whole  of  mynde  and  pfecte  rememberance,  prayse  be  vnto  allmightie 
god  ffyrst  I  bequeath  my  soule  vnto  my  lord  god  my  maker  and  redemor  and  my  bodie  to  be 
buried  in  the  churchyearde  of  all  saincts  in  Acton  .  I  will  that  Wiftin  Heywarde  of  the  same 
own  yeoman  shall  bring  me  at  the  daye  of  my  buriall  honestly  to  my  sepulture  or  grave  att 
his  owne  discretion  Whome  I  ordeyne  to  be  my  sole  executor  .  I  gyve  vnto  the  iiij  childrej 
of  Gyles  Wright  iiij1*  sterlinge  money  equally  to  de  devided  at  a  lawfull  age  by  the  handes  of 
myne  executor  vnto  Wilim  Wright  xxs  vnto  Robarte  Wright  xxs  and  vnto  lames  Wright  xx8 
and  vnto  Agnes  Wright  xx8  .  To  the  mendinge  of  Stoke  slowe  [slough]1  \qs  vnjd.  To  the 

1  The  Ordnance  Map  of  1890  marks  Slough  Farm  in  Acton,  and  Slongh  Hall  in  Little  Waldingfield.  In  that 
of  1858  the  road  leading  from  Acton  village  to  Slough  Farm  is  called  Slough  Lane,  and  a  farm  just  N.W.  of 
Slough  Farm  is  called  Partridge’s  Farm  (Rookery  Farm  in  the  1890  map).  The  map  of  1858  also  marks  a 
Slough  Farm  in  Lavenham,  lying  about  1J  miles  N.  of  the  other  Slough  Farm. 

3  A2 


396 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


meridinge  of  Lawers  Slowe  vj®  viijd  [fo.  572  b]  The  residue  I  putt  fully  and  holly  into  the 
handes  of  Wiftm  Haywarde  and  he  to  dispose  at  his  discretion  for  the  helth  of  my  sowle  and 
all  xpen  sowles  Sr  Thomas  Brynkoley  Curate  of  the  same  towne  Gyles  Wright  wth  other 
Proved  at  “ffbrneham”  5  Feb.  154£  by  the  ex’or. 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  book  “  Longe,”  fo.  572  a  et  seq. 

This  is,  apparently,  the  last  recorded  will  of  Partridge  of  Acton.  In  1522-24  (Lay 
Subsidy,  Suff.,  yf§),  there  was  a  Wyll.  Pterych  at  Great  Welnetham,  and  a  Wyll.  Pterych  at 
Beyton.  In  1527,  the  heiress  of  Tho.  Clerbeck  of  Clerbeck  Manor  in  Acton  was  his  aunt 
Joan,  born  1476-77,  wife  of  a  Will.  Ptriche  (see  p.  394).  The  following  extracts  from  parish- 
registers  are  probable  links  between  Partridge  of  Acton  and  Partridge  of  Bradfield  S.  Clare  and 
Great  Welnetham,  but  no  proof  of  the  relationship  has  yet  been  found.  The  northern  point  of 
Acton  parish  is,  as  the  crow  flies,  4-|  miles  south  of  the  southern  point  of  Bradfield  S.  Clare 
parish,  Lavenham  and  Cockfield  lying  between,  and  5|  south  of  that  of  Great  Welnetham 
parish,  Lavenham,  Cockfield,  and  Stanningfield  lying  between.  Bradfield  S.  Clare  and  Great 
Welnetham  adjoin,  and  the  former  is  2|  miles  south-west  of  Beyton.  Great  Cornard  is  1^-  miles 
south  of  Acton. 

William  Partrich  of  Great  Welnetham,  who  died  in  1586  (see  his  will  below),  married 
Margaret  Adams,  widow.  Adams  occurs  frequently  in  Great  Welnetham  registers,  and  there  are 
six  Manwood  entries  at  Little  Welnetham  (adjoins  Great  Welnetham  and  Bradfield  S.  Clare) 
between  1573  and  1630.  The  discovery  of  Joan  Partridge’s  marriages  at  Great  Cornard  to 
Edmund  Manwood  and  Thomas  Adams,  in  1574  and  1577,  explains  the  bequests  to  “cousins” 
(nephew  and  nieces)  of  those  names  made  in  1624-25  by  Tho.  Partridge  of  Higham  and  Capel 
S.  Mary,  progenitor  of  Partridge  of  Shelley  Hall  (see  pages  168-169).  He  retrieved  the  fortune 
of  the  family,  which  was  fallen  considerably  since  the  days  .of  the  two  opulent  yeomen  Robert 
Parteryche  of  Acton  and  Sudbury  (will  dated  1489)  and  his  son  Robert  of  Acton  (will  dated 
1525);  he  did  not  marry  until  aged  36,  but  he  married  thrice,  and  had  seven  sons  and  three 
daughters ;  he  owned  lands  in  three  parishes,  and  sent  one  son  to  Emmanuel  College,  Cambridge  ; 
his  descendants  are  very  numerous,  and  some  are  still  landowners  in  that  part  of  Suffolk. 


(Bitrarts  from  }3arislj  Jirgisters. 

Bradfield  S.  Clare.1 

1543.  Johns  pertriche  de  ista  p[ar]ochia  sponsavit  brygida  brynglou  .  .  .  de  ead  p[ar]ochia 
septimo  die  octobrs. 

15l~.  decimo  nono  die  mensis  Januarij  natus  erat  Johes  pertryche  filis  Johis  pertryche. 

1546.  vicessimo  octavo  die  augusti  nata  erat  Joanna  thed  [sic]  filia  Johes  pertreyche. 

1548.  the  vij  day  of  October  was  thomas  pertrychesse  the  sonne  of  John  partrychesse  crystened. 

1550.  The  xviii  daye  of  november  was  Rycherd  partryche  borne  and  chrystenyd  sonne  to  John 
partriclie. 

155|.  The  thred  daye  of  fabruarij  was  annas  partryche  bonre  and  crystyned  dowthere  of  John 
partryche. 

1555.  The  vi  day  of  apriffe  was  dowry  the  partryche  chrystened  dowt’  to  John  partryche. 

1  Reprinted  from  Proc.  Suff.  Inst.  Arch.,  ix,  pp.  313-317. 


PARTRIDGE  OP  ACTON. 


*  397 


1558.  Johnes  ptrytryche  obijt  9  die  septebris  A°d  1558  [His  widow,  Bridget,  married  Tlio. 

Creeme  of  Hitcham,  who  had  lands  at  Hitcham  and  Hessett,  and  whose  will  she 
proved,  Archd.  Sudb.  237  Everston,  8  Mar.  16i§.  In  1589  (Arch.  Sudb.  278  Whitney), 
her  brother,  John  Bringlowe  of  Bradfield  S.  Clare,  made  a  bequest  to  “my  sister 
Creame.”] 

Great  Cornard.1 

157L  Jan.  29.  Edmund  Manwood  &  Joan  Partridge  married. 

1577.  June  4.  Thomas  Adams  &  Joan  Manwood  widow  married. 

Higham.2 

1585.  John  Partridge  singleman  and  Gresell  Manhoode  singlewoman  weare  maried  the  vith  of  June. 

„  Thomas  Partridge  y®  sonne  of  Thomas  Partridge  was  bapt.  the  xxviii  of  Oct. 

,,  Joane  Adams  ye  wife  of  Thoms  Adams  was  buried  ye  first  of  Nouember. 

1592.  Thomas  Adams  widower  buried  ye  xxixth  of  Aprell. 

Etc.  Etc.  Etc. 

Great  Welnetham3  (begin  1561). 

156f.  Thomas  Talworthye  &  Alice  Pattriche  were  marryed  the  xxth  daye  of  Januarye. 

1 5-5  jj.  Thomas  Nayler  &  Alice  Addams  were  marryed  the  xxixth  daye  of  Januarye. 

1 57|.  Edward  the  sonne  of  John  Pattriche  was  buryed  ye  xxjth  of  ffebruarye. 

1586.  Wilhn  Pattriche  was  buryed  the  iiijth  daye  of  December. 

1588.  Wilim  Addams  the  sonne  of  Kobart  Addams  was  baptized  the  first  daye  of  December. 

,,  The  Widowe  Pattriche  was  buryed  the  iiijth  daye  of  December. 

Etc.  Etc.  Etc. 


Mill  of  Militant  $artrtdj  of  (Breat  Mdiutljam,  1586. 

(Shortened.)  10  May  1586.  William  Partrich  thelder  of  greate  Wheltham  in  Suff9 
husbandman.  To  Margarett  my  Wife  my  Lease  for  terme  of  the  yeares  being  and  all  my 
movable  goodes  And  if  she  shall  happen  to  dye  before  the  terme  of  the  saide  yeares  be  ended 
of  my  saide  Lease  that  I  haue  of  Sr  Robarte  Jenny ne  then  I  will  it  and  all  my  movable- 
goodes  shall  remayne  to  Robarte  Adams  her  sonne.  To  Alice  Nayler  x1'  wthin  one  Yeare  after 
the  decease  of  Margarett  my  Wife.  And  if  Alice  shall  dye  before  the  tyme  Then  I  will  yt 

shalbe  devided  equallie  betwene  her  three  daughters  And  if  anye  of  them  do  dye  then  theie 

that  lyve  to  haue  thothers  pte  equallie  devided  And  if  yt  shall  happen  all  to  dye  .  then  I 
will  yt  shall  retorne  to  Robarte  Adams  children.  To  Thomas  Neylor  sonne  of  Thomas  Neylor 
£6.  13.  4  when  xxj.  To  John  Partridge  my  brother  a  good  mylch  Co  we.  To  euerye  of  John 
his  children  ij8  a  pece.  To  Alice  Tayleworthe  my  Sister  a  mylch  Cowe.  To  her  six  Children 
ij8  a  pece.  [fo.  87  a]  To  John*  Partrdge  r sic]  of  great  Wheltham  ij9.  To  Richarde*  Partridge 
[1  of  Kersey]  ij8.  To  Dorothie*  Payne  wife  of  Thomas  Payne  ij8.  To  Anne*  Rose  ij8.  To 

Thomas  Hunt  my  Sisters  sonne  ij8.  To  John  Hunt  ij8.  To  Witlin  Gilbert  my  §vaunt  iij8  iiij'h. 

1  From  “  register-bills  ”  preserved  at  Bury.  3  Ibid.,  vol.  viii,  pp.  190-191. 

5  See  The  East  Anglian,  vol.  ix,  pp.  90-92. 


398 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


To  Brigett  Game  my  mayde  vs.  To  the  poore  of  greate  Wheltham  iij8  iiijd.  Margarett  my  Wife 
and  Robarte  Adams  her  sonne  to  be  Executors.  mr  Richarde  Goodrich  to  be  Supvisor.  I  giue 
him  for  his  paynes  xiij3  iiijd.  Wittnesses  :  Thomas  Adams  Robarte  Tyler,  Wilim  Partrich  his 
marke.  Proved  at  Bury  S.  Edmund’s  15  Dec.  1586  by  the  ex’ors. 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  book  “Bright,”  fo.  86b  et  seq. 


The  four  devisees  marked  *  were  probably  children  of  John  and  Bridget  Pertriche  of 
Bradfield  S.  Clare  (see  p.  396),  and,  perhaps,  testator’s  first-cousins.  Joan  was  dead  by  this  date, 
and  Thomas  was  living  far  away  at  Higham  and  was  probably  too  prosperous  to  need  such  a 
small  bequest. 


From  this  will,  with  additions  from  parish-registers,  etc.,  is  drawn  up  the  following 
pedigree : 


.  .  .  Partrich. 


Adams 

(1st 

husb.). 


(1)  Marg4- ;  (2)— Wra  Partrich  the  elder  of  G4,  Wel- 
her  2nd  husb.’s  netham,  husbandman ;  there  in 
ex’ix,  1586 ;  bur.  1565-66, 1575-76, 1582  (lay-subsi- 
at  G4  Welm  4  dies)  ;  will  dat.  and  prov.  (Arch. 
Dec.  1588.  Sud.)  1586;  bur.  there  4  Dec.  1586. 


— I - - 

John  Partridge ;  dev.in=j= 
bro.  Will.’s  will,  1586, 
but  not  of  Gl  Welm, 
for  another  dev.  was 
“  John  P.  of  G4,  Welm.” 


AlicePattriche ;  m.: 
Gt  Welm  156|  ; 
dev.  in  bro.  Will.’s 
will,  1586 ;  bur. 
(wid.)  Cockfield 
1588. 


Alice  Addams  ;  m.= 
G4,  Welm  15f-§ ;  de¬ 
visee  in  Wm  Part- 
rich’s  will,  1586. 


- 1 

-Thomas  Rob.  Adams  of  Rushbrooke,  yeoman;  m.: 
Nayler.  there  1576;  Wm  Partrich’s  ex’or,  1586;  his 
son  Wm  bapt.at  GtWelm  1  Dec.  1588;  bur. 
at  Rushbrooke  162f ;  will  pr.  Arch.  Sud. 


l - 1 

Children  ; 
mentd  in 
will  1586. 


=Tho. 

Tal- 

wor- 

thy. 


6  child11 ; 
mentd  in 
will  1586. 


- 1 

•  *  •  > 
wife 
of .  .  . 
Hunt. 


Tho.  Hunt,  John 
“  my  sist.’s  Hunt, 
son,”  1586.  1586. 


3  d  aus ;  mentioned  in  Wm 
Partrich’s  will,  1586. 


Tho.  Neylor  ;  dev.  in  Wm  Partrich’s 
will,  1586,  as  not  21. 


Children  ;  mentioned  in  Wm  Partrich’s 
will,  1586. 


@l)r  Slaying  cf  John  |3artrid)e,  1608. 

(Extract,  shortened,  from  Ipswich  Great  Court  Books,  27  Ap.  12  James  I  [1614],  fo.  586.) 

“WHEREAS  there  was  latelie  a  Cart  of  Thomas  Partriche  of  Higham  [yeoman]  drawne 

with  seauen  horses  did  Rune  over  John  his  sonne  in  the  highe  weye  nere  the  friers  bridge 
whereby  he  was  sleyne  by  reason  whereof  the  carte  horses  &  furniture  were  forfeited  to  the 
towne  as  a  Deodand  have  bin  seazed  to  the  townes  use  IT  is  nowe  agreed  that  he  shall 

paye  to  the  Chamberlins  of  this  towne  to  the  townes  use  in  Redempcon  of  the  said  goods  xxs. 
in  payment  whereof  he  shall  have  his  goods  ageine.” 

Friars’  Bridge,  Ipswich,  spanned  the  Gipping  between  Boat  (now  Friars’)  Lane  in  S.  Nicholas’ 
parish  and  Portman’s  Walk  in  S.  Peter’s ;  S.  Mary’s-at-Elms  adjoins  Boat  Lane ;  their  registers 

{S.  Peter’s  burials  begin  1658)  do  not  record  John  Partriche’s  burial.  Presumably  the  accident 

happened  on  the  left  bank  near  where  Tanner’s  Lane  met  Boat  Lane  (Monson’s  map,  1848), 
for  why  should  the  (1)  waggon  have  crossed  the  (then)  little  wooden  bridge  to  the  dreary  marshes 
on  the  right  bank  1  John  was  bapt.  at  Higham  15  Mar.  159f,  so  was  aged  12  if  buried  there 
27  May  1608  (the  only  suitable  entry),  which,  though  six  years  earlier  than  the  above  agreement, 
may  tally  with  “  latelie.”  Bacon,  recording  it  ( Annalls  of  Ipswche,  455),  calls  him  “  childe.”  How 
bad  the  roads  were  to  require  seven  horses  for  one  “  Cart  ”  ! 

Dr.  Johnson  defines  Deodand  ( yiven  to  God,  that  is,  to  the  poor)  with  much  detail.  Tho. 
Partriche  may  have  had  a  “friend  at  court”:  his  nephew  John  Manwood  lived  at  Ipswich,  and 
in  1605  a  John  Manwood  was  one  of  the  “Chamberlins”  there. 


PARTRIDGE  OF  ACTON. 


399 


Will  of  Hidjarfi  flartridjc  of  Ibr mj,  1610. 

(Shortened  from  a  copy  printed  verbatim  in  The  East  Anglian,  vol.  x,  pp.  281-283.)  In 
the  name  of  god  Amen,  The  eight  of  August  1610  I  Richard  Partriche  of  Bromswall  [1  Bromes- 
well,  near  Woodbridge]  in  SufF  yeorna?  sicke  of  bodye  but  of  whole  mynde  and  pfect  re¬ 
membrance  laud  and  praise  be  geuen  to  Almightie  god ;  I  Comytt  my  soule  into  the  hands  of 
Almightie  god  my  onlye  Saviour  and  redemer  and  my  bodye  to  the  earthe  from  whence  it  came 
hoping  throughe  the  merites  of  Christe  Jesus  as  the  same  diethe  in  corruption  soe  it  shall  rise 
againe  in  in  corruption  and  be  vnited  to  the  same  soule  in  ioye  everlastinge  felicitye  in  the 
kingdome  of  heaven.  I  giue  vnto  Elizabeth  Sare  wife  of  Willnl  Sare  of  Carsey  [Kersey]  in 
the  Countie  aforesaid  my  house  in  Carsey  and  if  it  shall  fortune  that  she  doe  departe  this 
mortall  life  with  oute  heires  of  her  bodye  then  I  will  that  it  shall  be  sould  and  the  monie 
equallie  devided  betwene  Richard  Partrich  my  sonne  and  Marye  my  dawghter  wife  of  Steven 
Amys  and  the  heires  of  their  bodyes.  I  wish  that  Edward  Bendall  my  ffarmore  [tenant]  shall 

have  his  dwellinge  in  my  said  house  for  three  yeres  from  ye  feast  of  saint  Michell  tharchaungell 

next  after  my  decease  payenge  yerelye  vnto  Elizabeth  Sare  the  yerelye  rent  or  ferine  of  Twentye 

shillinges  [fo.  213  b].  Vnto  Steven  Amys  the  sonne  of  Steven  Amys  and  Marye  my  dawghter 

fowre  poundes  when  eighteene.  Vnto  fFaithe  Amys  my  grandchild  Tenne  pounds  when  eighteene. 
Vnto  Suzan  Partriche  dawghter  of  Richard  Partriche  my  sonne  five  pounds  when  eighteene. 
Vnto  Elizabeth  Parteriche  second  dawghter  of  the  said  Richard  five  pounds  when  eighteene. 
Vnto  Richard  Partriche  my  sonne  ffive  pounds.  Vnto  Anne  Partriche  my  sister  Twentie  shillings. 
Vnto  Elizabeth  &  Marye  my  dawghters  all  my  howshould  stuff,  And  I  make  them  Executors, 
And  my  lovinge  freind  Richard  Sugg  of  Carsey  supvisor  vnto  whom  I  giue  xxs.  Wyttnesss 
herevnto  Thoms  Wright  Steven  Amys  Thorns  Stannard  &  Richard  Harrison.  Proved  at  Bury, 
22  Aug.  1610,  by  ex’ix  Elizabeth,  ex’ix  Mary  reserving  her  right. 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  book  “  Rogen,”  fo.  212  b  et  seq. 

The  testator  was  probably  identical  with  Richard,  son  of  John  and  Bridget  Partriche, 
bapt.  at  Bradfield  S.  Clare  in  1550,  and  with  Richard  Partridge  devisee  of  William  Partrich  of 
Great  Welnetham  in  1586. 


Mill  of  foljtt  flattmDge  of  (Brmt  ffitrlnetlmm,  1624. 

(Shortened.)  In  the  name  of  God,  Amen  :  17  August  1624  John  Patteridge  of  great 
Weltham  in  SufF  husbondman  being  in  his  parfect  mynd  and  memory  made  his  last  Will  and 
Testament  nuncupative.  He  gave  the  house  or  Cottage  wherein  he  dwelt  and  the  yard  belonging 
to  the  same  in  great  Weltham  And  all  his  goodes  and  Chattalls  unto  Thomasin  his  Wyfe  during 
hir  lyfe  and  after  hir  decease  unto  Robert  Patteridge  his  sonne  he  to  pay  unto  John  Thomas 
Henry  Prudence  Dorothy  Bregett  Susan  and  Thomasin  Patteridge  sonnes  and  daughters  of  the 
deceased  forty  shillinges  a  peece  the  first  payment  to  be  made  to  the  eldest  of  them  wthin  one 
yeare  after  his  wives  decease  and  soe  be  the  rest  one  after  another  as  they  be  in  yeares  every 
yeare  one  after  another  Wytnes  to  the  same  John  Hamond  and  Willim  Pattericke. 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  book  “  Pearle,”  fo  44. 


400 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


^armiicfc  of  <3rton. 


William  Partrych  ;  for  his: 
soul  Kath.  P.  made  a  be¬ 
quest,  10  June  1443. 


J 


Katherine  ;  will  (Kath.  Paretrych  of  Acton)  dat.  10  June  1443,  to  be  bur.  in  Acton  churchyd,  re¬ 
ligious  bequests  to  Acton,  Lavenham,  Sudbury,  Clare,  &  Babwell,  had  2  tenements  at  Acton  (one  at 
“le  tye  ”),  bequests  to  Agnes  Ray  &  Andrew  Wysbych,  will  pr.  .Arch.  Sudb.  4  July  1443. 


Gilbert;  his  mother’s  co-ex’or  &  devisee  of  tenement  at  Acton. =f=Margaret ;  co-ex’ix  with  her  husband. 

?  ! 

. . . i _ _ _ ... _ 


Dionis 
ex’ix 
to  her 
hush'1, 
who  left 
her  a 
mes¬ 
suage 
at 

Acton. 


=p  William  Partrych 
of  Acton  ;  will  dat. 
16  Feb.  148|,  to  be 
bur.  in  A.  churchy  d, 
had  4  mess8  (one 
he  inhabited,  one 
late  John  Copyn’s, 
one  at  G4  Walding- 
field,  one  at  “  Ladi- 
don  ”),  prov.  Arch. 
Sudb.  17  Mar.  148* 


Agnes=j=(l)  Rob.  Parteryche  of  Acton,  (2) — (2)  Mawde  ;  dev.  in  (1)  = 


O' Ray); 

bur.  in 
Acton 
church¬ 
yard. 


1468  (see  p.  386)  ;  will  (R.  P. 
thelder  of  Sudbury)  dat.  1489,  to 
be  bur.in;Acton  ch’yard,  hadtene- 
ments,  prob.  all  at  A.,  called 
Smethes,  Raves,  Archendemys, 
Stokes,  Parmenters,  Strutts  with 
Blyndmannes  Crofte,  &  Deyes 
with  Gotescroft,will  prov.  P.C.C., 
1  Dogett,  1491.  He  made  a  cause¬ 
way  at  Twinstead,  Essex. 


2nd  husb.’s  will ;  her 
will  (M.  P.  of  Sudbury, 
wid.)  dat.  1494,  to  be 
bur.  in  chapel  of  All 
Saints’  ch.,  had  house 
at  Sudbury  &  another 
at  Ballingdon,  bequests 
to  sisterAnnes  Broune- 
smyth  &  Mawde  her 
da.,  pr.  P.C.C.,  23  Vox. 


Thomas 
Wellis 
of  All 
Saints, 
Sudb. ; 
bur.  in 
chapel 
of  All 
Saints’ 
church. 


RogerPartrych 
of  Acton ;  ex’or 
to  Wm  P.  of  A. 
148J,  to  Rich. 
Aslott  of  Actn 
1485,  &  to  his 
bro.  Rob.  P.  of 
Sudbury  1489 ; 
bought,  of  his 
bro.  Rob.,  Dey¬ 
es, &c.,inActon. 


JohnPart- 
rich ;  de¬ 
visee  in 
will,  1489, 
of  bro. 
Rob.,  to 
whom  he 
sold  two 
tenements 
in  Laven¬ 
ham. 


r  -1- 

- 1 

1 

1 

•  r  -1- 

— -i  ? 

John;  his 

Alice ; 

Rob.  Partrycheof  Acton, 

=Isabell ;  devisee  in  father-in 

Grace=j 

-William 

Geo.  Pateriche  of  Laven- 

Roger 

father 

her  fa- 

yeoman ;  his  father’s 
ex’or,  1489  ;  his  will  dat. 

law’s  will,  &  in  that  of  Mawde 

Part- 

Crochon 

ham  ;  will  (Arch.  Sud.) 

Part- 

left  him 

ther 

P.,  who  also  made  bequest  to 

rich  ; 

or  Cro- 

dat.  13  Mar.  154|,  to  be 

riche ; 

a  messu- 

left 

1525,  to  be  bur.  in  Acton 

Isabell’s  sist.  Joan,  wife  of 

devi- 

chyn ; 

bur.in  Lavenham  church- 

devisee 

age  [at 

her  a 

church ,  had  tenements 
there  called  Coppyns, 

Rob.  Cowper  of  Edwardston  ; 
dev.  in  husb.’s  will,  1525  ;  her 

see  in 

devisee 

yard,  residuary  legatee 
&  ex’or  to  be  Rob.  Part- 

in  his 

Acton] 

messu- 

her 

in  his 

brother 

late 

age  at 

Archedoms,  Stooks,  and 

will  (of  Acton,  wid.)  dat.  1545, 

fa- 

father- 

riche  “my  Cosen  [? 

George’s 

John 

Great 

Parmenters,  ex’or  Tho. 

to  be  bur.  in  A.  church vard, 

ther’s 

in-law’s 

nephew]  w4h  whom  I 

will, 

Cop¬ 

yn’s. 

Wald- 

Clarbeck,  gent.,  who 

ex’or  Wm  Haywarde  of  Acton, 

will, 

will, 

ame  and  haue  bine  longe 

164*. 

ing- 

fleld. 

prov.  will  Arch.  Sudb. 
30  Oct.  1525. 

yeoman,  who  prov.  will  154§ 
at  Fornham,  Archd.  Sudb. 

1489. 

1489. 

sicke.”  Geo.  P.  was  of 

Acton  1523-24.  *  ?  Identical.  | 

?  f- . 

Thomas 
Part- 
iche 
(stc) ; 
bur.  G4 
Wald- 
ingfield 
154§. 


:William  Partriche  ;=Joan,  da.  of  And.  Clerbeck, 
mentdinTho.Clere-  d.  1500,  of  Clerbeck  Man., 
Acton,  &  aunt  &  heiress 
of  Tho.  C.,  gent.,  who  d.  7 
Dec.  1526  ;  b.  1476-77  ;  wife 
of  Wm  Partriche  in  1527 
(see  I.P.M.  at  p.  394)  ;  d. 
1530  (Copinger’s  Manors  of 
Suff.,  i,  10). 


beke’s  I.P.M.,  18 
Sept.  1527  (see  p. 
394) ;  ?  same  as  Wm 
P.  of  G4  Welnetham 
or  as  Wm  P.  of  Bey- 
ton,  1522-24  (lay- 


Robert 

Crochon. 


Agnes 

Crochon. 


Thomas 

Crochon. 


— l 

John 

Crochon. 

_ ) 


Margt=j=*  Robert 


Devisees  in  grandf.  Parteryche’s  will, 
1489,  as  under  21  (b.  after  1467)  & 
unm. ;  John  C.  &  Edmund  C.  were 
chief  devisees  in  Rob.  Partryche’s  will, 
1525. 


subsidy  ]-§-§). 


Nunn ; 

bur. 

(wid.) 

Great 

Fin- 

boro’ 

Dec. 

1558. 


Part¬ 
ridge 
of  G4 
Fin- 
boro’  ; 
died 
before 
1559. 


(?  William)=j=  John  Pertriche  of  Bradfield  S.  Clare;  m.= 
Partrich.  there  7  Oct.  1543  ;  bur.  there  9  Sep.  1558. 


=Bridget  Bringlove ; 
m.  (2)  Tho.  Creeme. 


Rob.  Partridge  of  G4  Finboro’, ^Ursula 
gent. ;  m.  1551 ;  will  pr.  1597.  |  Ive. 


i - 1  ? 

#Rob.  Part¬ 
riche  ;  host, 
“  Cosen  ”  (? 
nephew),  & 
resid.  lega¬ 
tee  of  Geo. 
P.  of  La¬ 
venham, 
Mar.  154§. 

Tho.  P. ;  bur. 
G4  Fin.  1594. 


Margr4,— 

=William 

~r 

John  P.;= 

=(?  Gres- 

i.  i 

Alice ; 

widow 

Part- 

dev.  of 

ell,  da. 

m.  G4 

of 

rich 

bro.  Wm 

of  Edm. 

Welnm 

Ad- 

thelder 

1586;  ? 

Man- 

166* 

ams; 

of  G4 

same  as 

wood  of 

Tho. 

bur. 

Welnm, 

John  P. 

G4Corn- 

Tal- 

Great 

husb’d- 

ofHigh- 

ard  by 

wor- 

Wei- 

man ; 

am,  who 

1st  wife ; 

thye. 

nethm 

will 

had  5 

m.  6 

— 

4  Dec. 

dat.  & 

child" 

June 

. . .  mo- 

1588. 

proved 

bapt. 

1585  at 

ther  of 

Arch. 

there 

High- 

Tho. 

Sudb. 

(see  p. 

am.) 

Hunt 

1586. 

167). 

(1586). 

Child11  mentd 

in 

See  Par 

W“  P.’s  will  1586. 

Welnet 

JohnP. 

of  G4 

Welnm, 

husb’d- 

man;b. 

Bradfd 

S. Clare 

154$; 

willpr. 

Archd. 

Sudb. 

1624. 


Edmund- 

Man- 

wood 

of  G4 
Cornard, 
widowr ; 
will  pr. 
Archd. 
Sudb. 
157f, 
printed 
in  E.  A. 
N.  Q, 
x,  32. 


of  Gkeat 


(l)Joan(2)- 

P.  ;  born 
Bradfd 
S.  Clare 
1546 ; m. 
1st  husb. 
at  Great 
Cornard 

167*, 

2nd  husb. 
there 
1577; 
bur.  1585 
Higham. 


Thomas 

Adams, 

Higham, 
widow1'; 
will  pr. 
Archd. 
Suff. 
1592, 
Tho.  P., 
Higham, 
ex’or, 
see  E.A. 
N.  Q., 
vii,  128. 


Thomas 

P.  of 

Higham 

&Capel, 

yeoman; 

bap.  at 

Bradfd 

S.  Clare 

1548; 

will  pr. 

(p.  165) 

Archd. 

Suff. 

1627. 


RichdP. 
of  Ker¬ 
sey, yeo¬ 
man  ;  b. 
Bradfd 
S.  Clare 
1550; 
will  pr. 
Archd. 
Sudb. 
1610, 
see  E.A. 
N.  #■  Q., 
x,  281. 


'“I — ! 

Annas; 
?  wife 
of  .  .  . 
Rose 
1586; 
dev.  of 
br.  Ric. 
1610. 

Doro¬ 
thy;  ? 
w.  ofT. 
Payne 
1586. 


Tho.P. 
of  <3* 
Finb. ; 
m.l57j 
Doro¬ 
thy, da. 
of  Tho. 
Timp- 
erley, 
Hintle- 
sham 
Hall, 
Esq. 


?  j - 

Alice  Adams  ;= 
m.  G4  Welnm 
15f§ ;  chief 
dev.  of  Will. 
P.  1586. 


Thomas  Rob. Adams ;  John  Manwood  of  Ipswich  ;  b. 
Nayler;  ex’or  to  Wm  1572-76  ;  mentd  in  father’s  will 

he,  3  da8  P.  1586;  of  1576;  dev.  as  “my  cousin” 

&  s.Tho.  Rushbrooke,  (nephew)  in  Tho.  P.  will  1624  ; 

mentd  yeoman  ;  m.  d.  1624-25  ;  wid.  was  dev.  in 

1586.  there  1576.  Tho  P.’s  2nd  will  1625. 


See  Partridge  of  Shelley 
Hall,  p.  168. 

i — j - 

Mary  Adams  ;  b.  1578-85;  dev. 
in  father’s  will  1592 ;  m.  Stratfd 
S.  Mary  1597  Rob.  Gardner ; 
dev.  in  Tho.  P.’s  1st  will  as  sist. 
of  J.  Manwood,  Ips.,  &  in  2nd  as 
sist.  of  Martha  Adams  (1625). 


Rob.  P. 
of  G4 
Finb. ; 
m.  1585 
Rose 
Cuckoe, 
Colch¬ 
ester, 
widow, 
who 
owned 
lands 
Earls’ 
Colne. 


See  Partridge  of 
Finborough,  p.  164. 

- 1 

Martha  Adams ;  b.  1578-85  ; 
dev.  in  father’s  will  1592  ; 
in  Tho.  P.  1st  will  (1624)  as 
sist.  of  J.  Manwood  of  Ips.; 
&  in  2nd  (1625)  as  “my 
cousin”  (niece). 


PARTRIDGE  OF  ACTON. 


401 


Partnfogr  of  (great  iJUclnrtljam. 

John  Brynggeloue  of  Cockfield  (which  adjoins  Bradfield  S.  Clare,  which  adjoins  G'  Welnetham),  1327. — Lay  Subsidy,  Suff.,  i-§0-. 

:  ? 

John  Brynglouthe  or  Brynglove  of  BradSeld  S.  Clare  ;  bur.  there  11  Aug.  1556.=f=Helen ;  bur.  5  Nov.  1555  at  Bradfield  S.  Clare. 


-John  Bryngloue  or  Bryngelove  of 
Bradfa  S.  Clare,  husbandman  ;  b.  c. 
1518-19 ;  m.  there  30  Oct.  1546 ; 
will  (Bringlowe)  dat.  7  June  1589, 
-bequest  to  “  my  sister  Creame  ”  ; 
•d.  13  Nov.  1599  aged  c.  80  (Proc. 
Suff.  Inst.  Arch.,  ix,  324)  ;  will  pr. 
Arch.  Sud.  19  Nov.  1599. 


=Marg6 

Mott 

of 

Rush- 

brooke. 


Margt — Wm  Warde  of  Felsham  ;  John  Pertriche=j=(l)  Bridget  (2)  — Tho.  Creeme  of  Hitch- 


B. ;  m.  ?  same  as  W,n  W.  of  Chel- 
Bradfd  lesworth,  whose  will,  pr. 
S.  Arch.  Sudb.  1564,  names 

Clare  wife  Marg4,  child11  W™, 
15  Ap.  Philip,  Alice,  Agnes,  & 
1543.  bro.  Edmund,  &  lands  at 
Layham.  (Husbandman.) 


of  Bradfield  S. 
Clare ;  m.  there 
7  Oct.  1543 ; 
bur.  there  9 
Sept.  1558. 

(Ist  husband.) 


Brynglove ;  de¬ 
visee  as  “  my 
sisterCreame  ” 
in  bro.  John 
Bringlowe's 
will  1589  ;  liv¬ 
ing  Mar.  16y§. 


am;  will  dat.  18  Nov. 
1612,  lands  at  Hitcham 
&  Hessettto  wife  Brid¬ 
get,  Fra8  son  of  Wm 
Shercroste,  &  son  Tho. 
Creeme,  pr.  Archd. 
Sudb.  8  Mar.  16^§. 


•bur. 

.Gl 

Welm 

158f. 

'(1st 

wife.) 


i — 

Edwd 

P.  ; 

bur. 

G4 

W. 

21 

Feb. 

157*. 


,=j=(l)  John  Patteridge  of  (2)=pThom-  Joan  P. ;  bapt.  1546  ; 


Gl  Welnetham,  husband¬ 
man  ;  bapt.  Bradfd  S.  Clare 
154§ ;  devisee  in  will  of  Wm 
P.  of  G1  Welm  1586 ;  will 
dat.  &prov.  (Arch.  Sudb.) 
1624 ;  bur.  Gfc  Welm  16 
Aug.  1624. 


asine  ;  m.  (1)  Edmund  Man- 
bur.  wood  Jan.  157£,  (2) 
Gl  Tho.  Adams  1577, 
Welm  both  at  G4  Cornard  ; 
1  May  bur.  at  Higham 
1638.  1585. 


~T 


Prudence  P. ; 
bapt.  Gl  W. 

15 £§;  GP- 

W.a)1602Jo. 
Bale,  (2)  1606 
Peter  Whita¬ 
ker  of  Roug- 
ham,  widr ; 
had  issue. 


John=pEliz. 

P-; 

bap. 

G1 

W. 

1582; 
bur. 
there 
1627. 


bur. 

G4 

Welm 

166J. 


Dorothy 
P. ;  bap. 
GtWelra 
1584;  m. 

. . .  Ran¬ 
dall  & 
had 


— i 

Eliz. 

P- ; 

bur. 

Gl 

Welnl 

158#. 


h- 


Tho.  Partridge  of 
Higham  &  Capel 
S.Mary,  yeoman ; 
bapt.  Bradfd  S. 
Clare  1548  ;  bur. 
at  Capel  1627.  (A 
guo  Partridge  oe 
Shelley  Hall.) 


Rich.  Partriche  of 
Kersey  &  Bromes- 
well,  yeoman ; 
bapt.  at  Bradfd  S. 
Clare  1550 ;  will 
dat.&  nrov.  (Arch. 
Sudb.)  1610.  See 
The  E.A.,x, 281-283. 


“  Annas”  P.; bap. 
155f  ;  P  devisee 
as  Anne  Rose  in 
will  of  Will.  P. 
of  G‘  Welm  1586 ; 
devisee  in  bro. 
Richard’s  will 
1610. 


Dorothy  P.  ; 
bapt.  1555 ;  ? 
dev.  as  Doro¬ 
thy  Payne 
wife  of  Tho. 
Payne  in  W. 
Par  trich’ s 
will  1586. 


Thomas 
P.;  bapt. 
GtWelm 
158§ ;  ? 
of  Haw- 
stead 
1639-40. 


Robert  P.  of 
Gl  Welnetm, 
yeom’u;bap. 
there  1591  ; 
will  dat.  & 
pr.  (P.C.C., 
548  Pell) 
1659. 


Henry; 
P. ;  bap. 
G4  W  elln 
159f ; 
mentd 
in  bro. 
Rob.’s 
will 
1659. 


=Fran- 
ces ; 
mentd 
in 

Rob. 

P.’s 

will 

1659. 

? 


Susan  P.; 
bap.  Gl 
W.  159|; 
m.  there 
1622  Edw. 
Worth, 
by  whom 
3  child11. 


Bridget  P.; 
bap.  G4  W. 
1600  ;  she 
(widow 
Wilding)  & 
her  child11 
mentd  in 
Rob.  P.’s 
will  1659. 


Thomasine 
P. ;  bapt.  G4 
W.  160|;m. 
there  1630 
Anth. Stew¬ 
ard  ;  wid. 
Steward  & 
4  children 
mentd1659. 


-■Susan  P.;  bap. 
G4  Welm  1620; 
bur.  there  1643. 


John  Pattridge ; 
bap.  G4  Welm 
162J. 


- 1 

Rachel 
P. ;  bap. 
G4  Welm 
162#. 


Rob.  Partridge ;  “of  Ampton,  husband  man,  my  kins-— Mary  ; 
man,”  devisee  of  lands  at  G4  Welm  (will  of  Rob.  P.  herhus- 
of  G4  Welm  1659)  ;  will  (of  G4  Livermere,  husband-  band’s 
man)  dat.  &  pr.,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1674. 


Henry  Partridge;  devisee  of  lands  at  G4  Welnetham,  1674; 
•adm’on  (of  G4  Welm)  23  Jan.  168§  to  sist.  Mary  Partridge 
■al’s  Page,  Arch.  Sudb.,  v,  123. 


MaryP.;  devisee  1674;  adm’ix  of  property 
of  father  &  bro.  Henry,  168§,  then  wife  of 
Isaac  Page  of  (P  Stowmarket). 


“  Susan  Part¬ 
ridge  wife  of 
Luke  Ager  ” 
(1659). 

i 


“  Tho.Part- 
ridge  my 
kinsman  ” 
(1659). 


Robert  Partridge  ;  P  of 
Drinkstone  1673-74  ; 
devisee  20  Sept.  1674. 


Patrick  of  (great  <L24clnctfjam. 

(These  Patricks  have  been  very  carefully  separated  from  the  Partridges ;  the  confusion  in  spelling  is  remarkable.) 

Will.  Patrick  of  G4,  Welnetham,  yeoman ;  17  Aug.  1624,  witness  (Wm  Pattericke)  to  will  of  John  Patteridge  of  G4  Welm  ;=i=Marg4 ;  bur.  at 


will  dat.  &  prov.  (Arch.  Sud.)  1626;  bur.  G4  Welnl  7  Aug.  1626.  On  10  May  1586,  Wm  Partrich  the  elder  of  G4  Welm 
made  his  will ;  did  he  mean  that  this  Wm  Patrick  was  the  younger  ? 


G4  Welnetham 
27  Mar.  1625. 


Marg4  Patrick  ;  (?  bapt.,  Patridge, 
1581  at  Stanningfield),  1626;  mentd 
in  father’s  will  as  unm.;  will  (M. 
Patrick  of  Wel"‘,  spinster)  dat.  21 
Nov.  1633  ;  bur.  there  &  will  prov. 
{Arch.  Sud.)  17  Feb.  163f. 


John  Patrick  of  Hawstead,  yeoman  ;  m.; 
there  6  June  1609  (Patrick)  ;  1626  &  1633, 
ment'1  in  father’s  &  sister’s  will ;  30  Mar. 
1640,  of  G4  Welm  (Ship-Money)  ;  will  (J. 
Pattridge)  dat.  20  Jan.  165|,  pr.  27 
July  1654,  P.C.C.,  499  Alehin. 


= Alice  Parker ;  Anne  Patrick ;  (?  bap.,  da.  of  Wm=John 
pr.  husb’s  will  Partridg,  1586  at  Stanningfield);  Stew- 
asA.Part ridge;  m.  (Pattricke)  Gfc  Welm  15  Nov.  ard. 
bur.  (Wid.  Pat-  1610 ;  1626  &  1633,  mentd  in  father’s 
rick)  W.  Stow  &  sister’s  wills. 

11  Dec.  1657. 


(?  John^vMarg1  Patrick  ;bap.  (Part- 
Crow  ridg)  Hawstead  20  Jan. 
•of  W.  16ff;  1633,  mentd  in  aunt 
Stow  Margaret’s  will ;  165f, 

1640.)  vj/mentd  in  father’s  will. 


Eliz.  Francis,  da.  of=f=(l)  John  Patrick  of  G4  Welm,  yeoman  ;  bap.  (Partridg)  Haw-  (2)=Dorcas; 

"  '  stead  25  May  1613  ;  1633,  mentd  in  aunt  Marg.’s  will ;  165f,  ment'1  mentd  in 

(Pattridge)  in  father’s  will;  1674,  of  Gl  Welm  as  J.  Patteridge  husb.  s 
(Hearth  Tax)  ;  will  (Patricke)  dat.  1682 ;  bur.  there  (Part-  will 
ridge)  4  Nov.  1682  ;  will  pr.  Arch.  Sud.  28  Mar.  1683.  1682. 


(?  John  Frances  of  W. 
Stow,  1639-40)  ;  m. 
there  13  July  1639; 
bur.  there  18  J  une  1657. 


Eliz. ;  bap.  “  Patricke  ”  W. 
Stow  1641 ;  m.  Ric.  Lusher 
•of  ?  Livermere  Parva. 


Marg1 ;  bap.  “  Pattridge  ” 
Gl  Wei™  1643 ;  m.  (?  Wm) 
Palfrey  of  ?  Liv’mere  P. 


John  ;  bap.“  Pattridg”  GtWel™1645 ; 
J.  Patricke,  1682 ;  ?  J.  Patrick  of 
Ampton,  husb’dman,  will  pr.  1687. 


Dorothy  ;  bap.  “  Patt¬ 
ridg  ”  Gfc  Wei™  1647  ; 
m.  John  Hawkins. 


Francis ;  bap.  “  Patt- 
rick  ”  W.  Stow  165f  ; 
?  bur. Hawstead  1688. 

3  B 


402 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ipartritnje  of  Cutibrnijam  (near  fHillJrnfjall). 

John  Partrich  of  Fordham,  co.  Cambridge,  6  miles  S.W.  of  Mildenhall,  tenant  of  the  Prior  of  F.,  1274  (Rot.  Hand ii,  503). 

. -) 

Edmund  Pertrich  of  Herringswell,  Suffolk,  3*  miles  S.  of  Mildenhall,  1318  ( The  East  Anglian ,  x,  388). 

i —  •  •  . . . 

John  Pertrich  of  Eriswell,  1327  (Lay  Subsidy,  Suff.,  Af&).  William  Patryk  of  Mildenhall,  1327  (Ibid.). 

L . ~r . *  1  •  ... 

John  Partrich  of  Eriswell,  3  miles  N.  of  Mildenhall,  1340  (Nonarum  bnuisitiones) . 


Dionis  =pNich.  Partrich  of  Mildenhall,  1381  (Powell’s  Rising  in  E.  Anglia  in  1381,  p.  85).  In  1469-70,  Margt  Traas  of  Moulton  granted 
(1381).  •  a  messuage  called  Cheveleys,  in  Moulton,  owned  formerly  by  Nich.  Partrych  of  Mildenhall  (Copinger’s  Suff.  Records  MSS., 
i  iv,  186). 


Partrich.1 


Isabel;  for  whose=(l)  John  Partrych  of  Fordham,  co.  Cambridge,  6  miles  S.W.  of  (2)=Margt;  to  whom  her  husb.  left  for  life  lands  at 
soul  her  husb.  Mildenhall ;  will  dat.  7  May  1477,  to  be  bur.  in  S.  Mary’s  Exning,  &  also  lands  at  Fordham  &  Soham  held 

ch’yard  there,  religious  bequests  to  Fordham  &  Exning,  prov.  of  manor  of  Soham. 

14  July  1477,  Arch.  Sudb.,  book  “  Hervy,”  fo.  130. 


made  a  bequest, 
1477. 


John  Partrych  ;  devisee  in  his  father’s  will, 
1477 ;  ?  same  as  # 


.  .  .  *Partrich  ;  for  whose  soul  his  son  Thomas=j=.  .  .  . ;  for  whose  soul  her  son  Thomas 
made  a  bequest,  1547.  |  made  a  bequest,  1547. 


i -  i 

Tho.  Partrich  of  Tuddenham  the  elder  ;  will  dat.  16  Ap.  1547,  to  be  bur.  in  Tuddm  ch’yard ;t=  Rob.  Partrich  ;  for  whose  soul  his  bro.. 
prov.  20  June  1547,  Arch.  Sudb.,  book  “  Cole,”  fo.  285.  |  Tho.  made  a  bequest,  1547. 


.  .  .  .=j=(l)  Isabel ;  devisee  &  ex’ix  of  second  hus- (2)=pTho.  Partrvche  the  elder  of  Tuddm  ;  his  Tho.  Partrich ;  Kath.P.;  Alice  P. ; 

T>  „  — L  I  .-»"L  ohn  tt-  CK  d  /-il-  1  C7CCQ  .  I-.  fnflion’o  ci  v  ’  r\r»  ( 44  olrloaf.  cjati  55  1  1  .  In  i  a  <d  ott  l((rnnnn,nr'  fl  oxri  ooo  rl  ovri  CJOO 


Roger, 

(1st 

husb.) 


band’s  will,  which  she  prov.  6  Oct.  1558 ;  her 
will  (of  Tuddm,  wid.)  dat.  19  Jan.  156},  prov. 
19  June  1571,  Arch.  Sudb.,  book  “  Hum.” 


father’s  ex’or  (“  eldest  son  ”),  1547  ;  his  dev.(“younger  devisee  devisee 
will  dat.  24  Aug.  1558,  to  be  bur.  there,  son”)  in  fa-  as  Kath.  as  Alice 
prov.  6  Oct.  1558,  Arch.  Sud.,  “  Bell,”  358.  ther’s  will, 1547.  Page,  1547.  Reve,  1547. 


Rob.  Roger ;  devisee 
as  “son-in-law” 
[step-son]  in  Tho. 
Partryche’s  will, 

1558.  | 

i - 1 

“  All  the  children  of  Rob. 
Roger”  were  devisees  in  Is¬ 
abel  Partriche’s  will  1561. 


Joan  Partrich;  devisee  as—.  .  .  . 


,=j=(l)  Agnes  Partrich  ;  dev.  (2)= 


.  (3)^=Edward 


Joan  P.  1547,  as  my  da.  Frost. 

Elder. 

as  Agnes  Helldermy  godda. 

Egle. 

Tailer ; 

Joan  Frost  1558,  as  my  da 

(1st 

1547,  as  Agnes  Egle  my  da. 

(2Qd 

devisee 

Joan  Frost  156}. 

husb.) 

1558,  as  Ag.  Tailer  my  da. 
156} 

husb.) 

156}.  (3rd 
husb.) 

J  ohn  Reve 
the  young¬ 
er  ;  devi¬ 
see  156}. 


Tho.  Elder  ;  dev.  John  Elder ; 
1558  &  156}  (of  devisee  1558. 
Tuddenham). 


John  Eagle;  Eliz.  Eagle ;  dev. 
deviseo  1558.  1558  &  156}. 


James.  Edward.  Joan.  Margh 


Devisees  156}. 


ill  of  Jo Ijit  iPortrudi  of  JFor&Ijant,  co.  ffiambrt&ge,  1477. 


(Translated  from  contracted  Latin  and  shortened.)  7  May  1477.  John  Partrych  [ptrych]  of  Fordham,. 
Norwich  diocese.  Soul  to  god  almighty,  blessed  Mary,  &c.  Body  to  be  buried  in  churchyard  of  blessed 
Mary,  Fordham.  “  j  comb  ”  of  barley  [each]  to  Fordham  church,  and  gilds  of  corpus  Christi  (of  Fordham, 
for  celebrating),  Jesus,  Holy  Trinity  of  Ixnyng  [Exning],  and  S.  Mildred.  To:  John  Cavenham  Jun.  a  gown 
of  vyolett,  Thomas  Gylby  my  Russet  coloured  gown,  John  Cavenham  sen.  my  black  gown,  Robert  Cogge 
my  green  gown.  To  Margaret  my  wife  my  movable  goods  viz.  cattle  sheep  pigs  and  fowls  and  household 
utensils.  Also  the  income  from  my  lands  in  Ixnyng  for  life,  which  lands  I  then  give  to  John  Partrych  my 
son.  And  for  said  lands  ex  parte  dei  I  require  that  John  cause  to  be  celebrated  two  trentals  of  S.  Gregory 
for  me  [and]  Margaret  and  Isabell  my  wives.  To  Margaret  my  wife  my  lands  in  the  fields  of  Fordham  & 
Saliam  [Soham  |,  held  by  copy  of  court  roll  of  Saham,  for  life.  Then  to  said  John  Partrych.  He  to  pay 
said  Margaret  xxxiij8  iiij'1.  To  John  Partrych  my  batell  exe  [axe],  med  leta  nigra  [sic],  my  red  belt  numere 
deargentate  [sic].  To  Sir  (domino)  William  Cavenham,  supervisor,  my  primer.  To  William  Brampton  A  John 
Poole,  executors,  iij8  iiijd  each.  I  attach  my  seal.  Proved  at  Fornham  14  July  1477. 

Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  book  “Hervy,”  fo.  130b. 


CORRIGENDA  KT  ADDENDA. 


403 


Corrtpntia  ft  Sl&lirntia. 


Page  20. 


Page  45. 
Page  75. 
Ibid. 
Page  76. 

Page  83. 


Hovell  of  Badwell  Ash.  That  portion  of  the  pedigree  in  Harl.  MS.  1560  which  deals  with  the 
Hovells  of  Langham  has  never  been  quite  accounted  for.  It  was  probably  compiled  by  John  Smith 
the  elder,  Fellow  of  Eton  and  Yicar  of  Maple  Durham,  who  was  born  at  Hunston  in  Suffolk  in 
1585.  Now  Hunston  adjoins  Langham,  and  John  Smith  of  Langham  and  Julian  his  wife,  his 
father  and  mother,  are  described  as  of  Hunston  in  the  will  of  Thomas  How,  1607.  ( See  page  52.) 
They  seem  to  have  had  lands  and  houses  in  both  parishes,  and  held  for  a  time  the  manor  of 
Brent  Illeigh.  The  will  of  William  Tipshithe  of  Bradwell  (he  is  called  “  Tepshefe  ”  in  the  pedigree) 

dated  22d  Nov.  1592,  was  proved  in  the  Court  of  the  Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury.  He  names  Joan 

his  wife,  Mary,  Katherine  and  Dorothy  his  daughters,  who  were  then  unmarried,  and  John  Smith 
his  son-in-law,  whom  he  made  his  supervisor.  Like  the  other  Hovells  of  Badwell  Ash,  the  Yicar 
of  Maple  Durham  used  for  the  most  part  the  name  of  Smith ;  but  his  arms,  as  given  in  the 
records  of  King’s  College,  Cambridge,  and  on  his  son’s  ledger  stone  in  the  Chapel,  were  the 
Sable,  a  cross  Or,  allowed  to  the  Hovells  alias  Smiths  of  Ashfield  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664. 

Hovell  of  Sulgrave.  For  Yesterley  read  Yefterley,  meaning  Iffley  in  Oxfordshire. 

Hovell  of  Wyverstone.  Pedigree  A.,  last  descent.  Atleburgh,  should  be  Attlebridge,  co.  Norfolk. 

Pedigree  B.,  third  descent.  For  Wiverseon  read  Wiverston. 

Reconstructed  Pedigree,  last  descent  but  one.  For  Robert  Monceux,  17  R.  2,  1289,  read  Robert 

Monceux,  17  R.  2,  1394. 

Hovell  of  Wyverstone.  In  Cowling  alone,  as  we  have  already  said  (see  page  80)  and  the  adjacent 

village  of  Kirtling,  do  we  find  traces  of  an  unbroken  line  of  Hovells,  from  the  days  of  Edward 

the  First  to  those  of  Queen  Elizabeth.  Another  link  between  them  has  recently  been  discovered 
in  the  Probate  Registry  at  Bury,  in  the  will  of  Richard  Hovell,  1450,  which  we  subjoin  : — 

“  In  Dei  no’ie  Amen.  xij°  die  August’  A0  D’ni  1450  :  Ego  Ric’us  Hovyle  de  Cowleng  &c.  (sic). 

It’  lego  sum’o  altari  mea’  optima’  vacca’,  corp’  ad  sepultura’.  It’  lego  conc’t’  f’rm  b’e  me’  Cantab’r 

xs.  It’  frib’  de  Babwell  xs.  It’  volo  qd  Joh’  Hovell  frat’  men’  et  Margar’  ux’  sua  h’eant  ten’ 

voe’  Deyzes  cu’  croft’  adiacen’  sub  condico’e  sequent’  ;  ut  solua’t  aut  solu’  facia’t  quolib’  anno 

dur’  vita  sua  Thome  Smyth  fili  Margarete  londe  filie  mea  viij8.  Et  volo  qd  p’diet’  ten’  voc’ 
Deyzes  post  decess’  p’dict’  Joh’  Hovell  et  Margar’  ux’  sue  remaneat  Th’m’  Smyth  sibi  et  her’ 

suis  de  corp’e  suo  l’e  p’creat’  inp’p’m’.  Et  si  contingat  p’d’tum  Thoma’  sine  her’  ut  p’dict’  obire, 

ex  tunc  volo  qd  p’d’tam  ten’  vendatr  pro  salut’  omni’  fideliu’  defunct’.  It’  volo  qd  Thomas  Howell 
filius  meus  hea’t  omn’  terr’  et  ten’t  mea  jacent’  in  Cowleng  iuxta  t’rm’  Joh’  del  Chamber  post 
decessu’  meu’,  sub  condico’ein  seque’  :  vz’ — ut  soluat  infra  triu’  an  ex  tunc  p’x’  sequent’  Is  &  iijs 
et  iiijd  distrib’  pro  salut’  ai’e  mee.  Et  si  contingat  p’dict’  Thom’  Howell  obire  sine  her’  mascul 

l’e  p’creat’  inter  se  et  Al’e  ux  sua,  filia’  Joh’is  Mor  de  Whepstede,  ex  tunc  volo  ut  om’ia  terr’  et 

ten’t’  ut  in  quadam  carta  me’  confect’  contine’tr  vendatatr  ut  supra. 

“  Residuu’  vero  omn’  bonor’  do  et  lego  Rico  Hervy  de  Bernyston,  Thom’  Howell  de  Cowleng. 
Edwardo  Wynt’  de  eadem,  Willo  Webbe  capno  ut  vendant’  &c. 

“  Prob  :  fuit  apud  Wykhambrok  xvi  die  .  .  .  .  a°  d’ni  m'cccclii.” 

Arch.  Sudb.  Book,  No.  II,  fo.  118b. 


In  the  name  of  God  Amen.  The  12th  day  of  August  1450,  I  Richard  Hovyle  of  Cowleng  &c.  [sic] 
leave  my  best  cow  to  the  high  altar,  and  my  body  to  be  buried.  Item  I  leave  to  the  convent 
■of  the  bretheren  of  Sl  Mary  at  Cambridge  10s.  To  the  friars  of  Babwell  10s.  Item,  I  will  that 

3  B2 


404 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


John  Hovell  my  brother  and  Margaret  his  wife  have  the  tenement  called  Deyzes,  with  the  croft 
adjacent,  on  the  following  condicion : — namely  that  they  pay  or  cause  to  be  paid  every  year  during 
the  life  of  Thomas  Smyth,  the  son  of  Margaret  Londe  my  daughter,  8s.  And  I  will  that  the 
said  tenement  called  Deyzes,  after  the  decease  of  the  said  John  Hovell  and  Margaret  his  wife, 
shall  remain  to  Thomas  Smyth  and  to  the  heirs  of  his  body  lawfully  begotten  for  ever.  And  if 

it  happens  that  the  said  Thomas  die  without  heirs  of  his  body,  then  I  will  that  the  said  tenement 

be  sold  for  the  health  of  all  the  faithful  departed.  Item  I  will  that  Thomas  Hovell  my  son  have 
all  my  lands  and  tenements,  lying  in  Cowling  near  the  lands  of  John  del  Chamber,  after  my 
death ;  upon  the  following  condition,  that  he  pay  out  of  them  within  three  years  next  following 
50s  and  3s  and  4'*,  to  be  distributed  for  the  health  of  my  soul.  And  if  it  happen  that  the  said 
Thomas  Hovell  die  without  heirs  male  begotten  between  him  and  Alice  his  wife,  the  daughter  of' 
John  More  of  Whepstead,  then  I  will  that  all  lands  and  tenements  named  in  a  certain  charter  of 
mine  be  sold  as  above. 

The  residue  of  all  my  goods  I  give  and  bequeath  to  Richard  Hervy  of  Bernyston,  Thomas 
Howell  of  Cowling,  Edward  Wynt’  of  the  same,  and  William  Webbe,  chaplain,  that  they  be 
sold  &c. 

Thomas  Hovell  of  Hovells  in  Cowling,  whose  will  of  1473  will  be  found  in  the  present  volume- 
( see  page  83)  is  almost  certainly  the  testator’s  son  of  that  name,  whose  wife  Alice  was  the 

daughter  of  John  More.  For  his  wife  was  also  called  Alice,  and  a  William  More,  possibly  her- 

brother,  was  one  of  his  executors.  From  the  two  wills  the  following  pedigree  may  be  deduced : — 


.  .  .  .  Hovell,  living  circa  1399=j= 


l - 

Richard  Hovell  of  Cowling,  co.=p 
Suffolk.  Will,  Arch.  Subd.,  12  Aug.  I 
1450,  proved  1452. 


John  Hovell,  brother  and — Margery, 
devisee  of  Richard  Hovell,  his  wife. 
1450. 


Thomas  Hovell  of  Hovells  in=j= Alice,  his  wife,  da.  of 


Cowling.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb. 
16  March  1473  :  William  More 
an  executor. 


John  More,  1450  . 
named  in  her  hus¬ 
band’s  will,  1473. 


- 1 

Margaret  Londe,  da.  and  devisee 
of  Richard  Hovell,  1450 ;  had 
son  Thomas  Smith,  probably  by 
a  former  husband. 


i - 

William  Hovell,  not  yet  aged  18 
in  1483. 


Thomas  Smith,  named  in  his  grandfather’s 
will,  1450. 


Page  87.  Hovell  of  Wyverstone.  Will  of  William  Morden,  fourth  line.  For  Jugge  read  Ingge,  a  well  known- 
East  Anglian  surname  in  its  modern  form  of  Inge.  See  also  the  pedigree  on  page  119. 

Page  101.  Clench  Pedigree,  second  descent.  By  a  printer’s  error  Joan  Amias,  his  daughter-in-law,  is  made 

to  be  the  child  of  John  Clench  of  Leeds.  The  arms  beneath  attributed  to  Hovell  of  Bury  are 

not  authentic. 

Page  102.  Willis  Pedigree,  1684,  third  descent.  For  Foxtox  in  Cambridgeshire  read  Foxton.  • 

Ibid.  The  Arms  of  the  Hovells  of  Wyverstone  and  Elstree,  here  inexactly  described,  are : — Sable  a  cross 

Or,  in  the  first  and  fourth  quarters  a  crescent  of  the  last.  Crest : — A  rhinosceros’  head  couped 

proper. 

Page  103.  Pedigree,  Hovell  of  Bury,  second  descent.  William  Morden  of  Fenditton  was  not  the  direct . 

ancestor  of  Lord  Suffield,  who  derived  from  John  Morden,  his  brother.  ( See  Chancery  Bill  and 
Depositions  on  page  118,  and  Pedigree  of  Morden  of  Great  Bradley  on  page  120.)  The  Morden 
pedigree  at  the  College  of  Arms,  compiled  by  Robert  Laurie,  Norroy,  is  incorrect.  He  confounded 
Oliver  Morden  of  St.  Mary  Abchurch,  London,  Sir  John  Morden’s  real  uncle,  with  Oliver  Morden  of 
Exning,  his  distant  cousin;  an  error  which  has  led  to  repeated  mistakes  on  the  part  of  succeeding 
genealogists. 

Page  133.  Whiting  of  Hadleigh.  Will  of  John  Harrison  the  Elder  of  the  County  of  Suffolk,  clerk,  14  April 
1639.  To  my  eldest  son  John  Harrison  and  the  heirs  of  his  body,  my  lands  in  Weston  al’s 
Wissington,  with  remainder,  failing  such  issue,  to  Isaac  Harrison  my  second  son.  Unto  said  Isaac  - 


CORRIGENDA  ET  ADDENDA. 


405 


my  lands  in  Pentlow,  co.  Essex.  To  Thomas  my  son,  lands  in  Sudbury.  To  Mary  my  daughter 
when  of  age,  tenement  in  Waldingfield,  which  I  purchased  of  Mr.  Isaac  Winckall,  my  father-in-law, 
after  the  decease  of  Judith  my  wife,  to  whom  I  give  my  lease  lands  in  Sudbury.  My  daughter 
Judith  Whiting.  Probate  12  Nov.  1641  to  Judith  Harrison  the  relict. 

Norwich  Consistory.  Wills  1640 — 1642,  fo.  70. 


Page  161. 


Page  164. 


Page  167. 


Page  168. 


Page  169. 


Ibid. 


Partridge  of  Finborough.  Last  paragraph,  re  Partrich  of  Gloucestershire,  should  have  been  omitted. 
Their  arms  and  those  of  P.  of  Finboro’  are  closely  alike,  but,  so  far  as  is  known,  no  relationship 
existed  between  the  two  families. 

Ibid.  It  is  stated  that  Rob.  Partridge  who  m.  Ursula  Ive  desired  to  be  bur.  in  Gk  Finboro’  church, 
“  but,  apparently,  was  not.”  It  has  since  been  discovered  that  that  register  contains  no  burial- 
entries  between  4  June  1595  and  15  Aug.  1598.  Probably  he  was  bur.  there  during  this  blank 

period,  for  his  will,  dat.  10  Ap.  1594,  was  pr.  3  Dec.  1597.  No  “  register-bill  ”  for  1597  is 
preserved  at  Bury. 

Partridge  of  Siirlrey  Hall.  Paragraph  (5).  After  Edw.  Mann’s  death  in  167y,  his  wid.  (?  5th 
wife)  Susanna — who  was  S.  Day  of  Holton,  wid.  (Pof  Rob.  Daye  of  Holton  S.  Mary  and  Raydon, 
gent.),  when  he  m.  her  at  Raydon  1664 — was  m.,  27  Oct.  1674  at  Boxford,  to  Hen.  Alston  of 

Stisted,  Essex,  she  being  described  in  the  licence  (Archd.  Suff.,  book  xxix,  fo.  10)  as  Susan  Mann 

of  Raydon,  wid. 

Ibid.  (Third  generation.)  Eliz.,  elder  da.  and  eventually  sole  h.  of  Tho.  Partridge  by  Anne  his 

wife  (whose  2nd  husb.  was  John  Hankin),  was  m.,  24  Sept.  1637  at  Wiston,  to  Wm  Blythe  of 
Nayland,  widower.  In  1640-41,  Wm  and  Eliz.  Blyth  sold  to  her  uncles  Rich.  Partrich  [of  Capel 
S.  Mary]  and  Rob.  Partrich  [then  of  Higham]  her  lands  at  Capel,  Higham,  and  Stoke-by-Nayland 
(Fine,  16  Charles  1). 

Ibid.  The  descendants  of  Eliz.,  da.  and  h.  of  Rich.  Partridge  of  Holton,  who  in  1714  was  m.  at 
S.  Nich.  church,  Ipswich,  to  John  Stubbin,  then  of  Layham,  but  afterwards  of  Sulley’s  in  Raydon, 
are  fully  treated  of  at  pages  349 — 350  of  this  volume.  John  Stubbin’s  father,  Josiah  S.  of 

Offton,  patron  of  Naughton  rectory,  d.  1686  owning  lands  at  Layham,  Offton,  Bildeston,  Naughton, 
Shotley,  and  Chelmondiston ;  see  extracts  from  his  will  in  The  East  Anglian,  x,  365.  Josiah  Stubbin’s 
portrait  (?  by  Lely),  dated  1668,  and  penes  his  descendant  Mrs.  Charles  Newman,  is  reproduced  in 
Farrer’s  Portraits  in  Suffolk  Houses  (West),  facing  p.  130.  His  burial-entry  at  Naughton  calls  him 
“  Commissary,”  which  explains  the  costume  in  the  picture. 

Ibid.  (Fifth  generation.)  Probably  the  following  extracts  from  Thorrington  registers,  Essex,  relate  to 
the  family  of  Rob.,  eldest  son  of  Rob.  Partridge  of  Stratford  :  6  Feb.  1706,  John  Partridge,  s.  of 
Rob.  and  Mary,  bapt.  ;  2  May  1708,  Rob.  P.  bur.  ;  15  June  1708,  Mary,  da.  of  Mary  P.  wid., 
bapt.  Sarah  Holden  was  da.  and  co-h.  of  Rich.  Houlding  of  Langham,  yeoman  (will  pr.  Comm.  Lond., 
Ess.  and  Hert’s.,  272  Boultwood,  1763).  Mary  Partridge  was  wife  of  Hen.  Simons  of  Fingringhoe 
24  Dec.  1756,  was  Mary  Townsend  of  Lit.  Waltham  wid.  12  July  1775,  and  d.  before  12  June 
1791. 


Ibid.  Ibid.  (Seventh  generation.)  Probably  Mary  Bloss  was  da.  of  Lionel  and  Mary  Bloss,  bapt.  1784  at 

Aldham. — Farrer’s  Portraits  in  Suffolk  Houses  (West),  128. 

Pages  169-170.  Partridge  of  Bacton.  On  18  July  1903,  the  College  of  Arms  granted  to  William  Bailey 

Partridge  of  Glancoed  [Glawcoea]  in  Llanddetti,  co.  Brecon,  and  of  Bacton  Manor  and  The  Grange 
in  Bacton,  co.  Hereford,  esq.,  J.P.  for  co.  Hereford  and  co.  Monmouth,  and  his  descendants,  and 

to  the  other  descendants  of  his  father,  Wm  Partridge  of  Beaufort  House  in  Llangattock,  co. 

Brecon,  gent.,  deceased,  the  following  arms :  Chequy  Arg.  and  Sa.  a  horse’s  head  erased  between 
two  escallops  in  bend  within  four  bendlets  engrailed  all  Gu.  ;  crest,  On  three  escallops  fessewise 
Gu.  a  horse’s  head  erased  Sa.  Mr  Partridge  was  High  Sheriff  of  Breconshire  in  1904-5.  On 

1  Nov.  1902,  his  third  da.,  Violet  Helena,  was  m.  at  Bacton  to  Arthur  Lambert,  second  son  of 

the  late  Wm  Lambert  Manley  of  Hoddesdon,  Hert’s.  ;  on  20  May  1906,  his  fourth  da.,  Daisy 

Elizabeth  Hamp,  died  unm.  at  Cliftonville,  Margate,  aged  21  ;  on  3  Dec.  1907,  his  eldest  da 
Mary  Adeline,  was  m.  at  Bacton  to  her  first-cousin  Geo.  Roderick,  younger  son  of  the  late  Tho. 

Adney,  M.D.  Mr  Partridge’s  aunt  Susannah  P.  of  Peckham  was  bur.,  not  in  “  Norwood  cem., 


406 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Page  174. 


Page  202. 
Ibid. 

Page  228. 
Ibid. 

Page  217- 


Page  307. 
Ibid. 

Page  308. 
Ibid. 

Ibid. 

Page  310. 

Page  312. 

Page  313. 

Page  332. 
Page  337. 


Page  347. 


Surrey  ”  (p.  170),  but  in  Nunliead  cem.,  Camberwell,  Surrey.  His  sister  Eliz.  Matilda,  wife  of 
John  Benj.  Evans,  d.  1907  aged  73  leaving  two  daughters  :  Mary  H.,  wife  of  Maj.  Sam.  Moreton 
Thomas,  and  Jane  Maud,  wife  of  Geo.  Cuthbert  Leonard,  eldest  s.  of  L.  M.  Strachey,  J.P.  and 
D.L.,  of  Rodboro’,  co.  Gloucester,  grandnephew  of  Sir  Hen.  Strachey,  1st  baronet. 

Lestrange  of  Pakenham.  Will  of  Hamon  L’Estrange  Esqr.  of  Bury  S1  Edmunds,  26  Aug.  1762. 
Unto  my  daughter  Anne  L’Estrange  and  to  her  heirs  the  house  I  live  in  in  Sfc  James’  parish, 
with  garden  &c.  and  furniture  and  plate  &c.  and  all  personal  estate,  and  my  ffour  houses  in  Upwell 
and  the  Isle  of  Ely,  one  known  as  the  Five  Bells,  and  a  capital  messuage  and  two  other 
tenements,  and  lands  in  Upwell,  Outwell  and  Evellny  in  Norfolk  or  Cambridgeshire.  After  her 
decease  said  houses  &c.  to  remain  to  my  daughter  Mrs  Mary  Johnson,  the  wife  of  Samuel  Johnson 
Esqr.  of  Norwich  and  the  heirs  of  her  body  ;  also  my  ffarrne  on  the  ffenn  in  Pakenham.  To 
Mrs  Isabell  Aspin,  my  daughter,  wife  to  the  Rev.  Mr  Harvy  Aspin,  my  messuage  at  Barton  Mare 
in  Pakenham,  with  lands  belonging  ;  also  my  estate  at  Cockfield.  I  appoint  my  daughter  Anne 
L’Estrange  sole  executrix.  This  will  was  proved  at  London,  1st  March  1770,  by  the  oath  of  Anna 
L’Estrange,  spinster,  daughter  of  deceased.  P.C.C.,  108  Jenner. 

Suckling  of  Barsham.  Pedigree,  eighth  descent.  For  John  Hexjward  read  Thomas  Heyward.  See 
Pedigree,  page  203. 

Ibid.  Pedigree,  last  descent  but  one.  Date  of  the  elder  Sir  John  Suckling’s  baptism.  For  1609 
read  perhaps  1659. 

Kempe  of  Beccles.  Robert  Kempe  of  Bury,  1600.  Date  of  Suffolk  Subsidy,  Jff.  By  a  printer’s 
error  the  42nd  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth  is  given  as  1610,  instead  of  1600. 

Ibid.  The  ancient  Kemp  pedigree  in  Harl.  MS.  1484  (pencil  folio  43)  states  that  Robert  Kemp  of 
Bury  had  live  children  : — Robert,  Thomas,  Dorathy,  Anne  and  Elizabeth. 

Keble  of  Stowmarket.  Pedigree,  tenth  descent.  Elizabeth  Kempe  of  T winstead,  co.  Essex,  widow, 
made  her  will  (P.0.0.  108  Land),  23d  July  1662,  in  these  words : — “  I  give  vnto  the  three  children 
of  John  Kebble  of  Stowe  Markett  in  Suffolke,  gentleman,  one  Gold  Ring,  one  silver  spoone  and 
one  peece  of  silver  with  a  spread  eagle  upon  it.  Vnto  John  Crosse  my  elder  brother,  fforty 
pounds  out  of  the  hundred  pounds  remaineing  in  the  hands  of  the  abouenamed  John  Keble.  To 
Ambrose  Crosse,  my  younger  brother,  threescore  pounds  ;  which  Ambrose  Crosse  I  make  my  sole 
executor.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  I  bequeath  amongst  the  children  of  my  sisters  and  Ambrose 
my  brother  as  shall  be  alive  at  the  time  of  my  decease.”  Thomas  Keble,  the  husband  of  the 
testatrix,  had  previously,  3d  June  1657,  devised  his  messuages  in  Melford,  co.  Suffolk,  to  Elizabeth 
Keble  his  daughters  and  her  heirs.  {Will,  P.G.C.  20  Land.) 

Pretyman  of  Bacton.  Pedigree,  first  descent.  Petrus  Baron  was  Lady  Margaret  Professor  1579 — 
not  1547  as  here  stated. 

Ibid.  Last  descent  but  one.  In  1758,  not  1658,  George  Pretyman  of  Bury  was  the  only  “  adult 
male  ”  of  the  Bacton  family. 

Pedigree,  second  descent.  For  John,  3d  son,  read  John  Tomline. 

Ibid.  Elizabeth  Yateman  died  1897,  not  1898.  Arabella  Williams  died  1867,  not  1861. 

Pedigree,  third  descent.  For  Lady  Fanny  Gage,  wife  of  William  Thomas  Tomline,  read  Honbie  Fanny 
Gage. 

Pretyman  of  London.  A  Thomas  Pretyman  was  buried  in  the  Public  burial  place  at  Charterhouse, 
1696. 

Pretyman  of  Bacton.  William  Pretyman,  brother  of  the  1st  Baronet,  married  Mary  King  at  Charlton, 
Kent,  26tn  Oct.  1652.  William,  his  son,  was  at  Merchant  Tailors’  School  in  1674. 

Pretyman  of  Bacton.  Margaret  Mennes,  relict  of  John  Pretyman,  remarried  Sir  John  Heath  at  S*- 
Olave’s  Hart  Street,  London,  24th  April,  1664. 

Pedigree,  Beaumont  of  Ipswich.  Seventh  descent.  For  Chapthorne  read  Clapthorne. 

Stubbin  of  Naughton.  By  a  most  regrettable  oversight  the  ancient  spelling  of  the  family  name, 
“  Stubbing,”  has  been  adopted  throughout  this  section,  much  of  which  had  already  passed  through 
the  press  before  the  error  was  discovered. 

Ibid.  Line  4,  for  “  Sir  George  ”  read  “  Sir  Roger.” 


CORRIGENDA  ET  ADDENDA. 


407 


Ibid. 

Ibid. 


Page  352. 


Page  397. 


Ibid.  (Second  generation.)  Jane  must  have  been  Rev.  Edmund  Stubbin’s  2nd  wife,  for  on  16  Sept. 
1629  his  wife’s  name  was  Bridget  (deed  penes  Mrs.  C.  Newman). 

Ibid.  (Sixth  generation.)  John  Stubbin’s  2nd  wife,  Amy,  d.  1765,  not  1675  ;  probably  she  was  grandda., 
not  of  Joseph  Brand  of  Edwardstone,  but  of  John  B.  of  Raydon  by  Eliz.  Brage.  His  3rd  wife  was 
grandda.  of  Rev.  Geo.  Clarke  of  Raydon  by  Eliz.,  da.  and  h.  of  Capt.  Nich.  Brage  of  Stratford  S. 
Mary,  by  probably  a  da.  of  the  celebrated  parliamentarian  Maj.-Gen.  Sir  Philip  Skippon.  Interesting 
collections  of  Stubbin  portraits  and  relics  are  penes  Mrs.  C.  Newman  of  Ipswich  and  Mrs.  H- 
Newman  of  Hadleigh  ;  see  Farrer’s  Portraits  in  Suffolk  Houses  (West),  129 — 133.  Throughout  the 
Stubbin  section,  “  Stubbing  ”  should  be  “  Stubbin.” 

Collett  of  Westerfield.  As  with  the  Hammonds  of  Ufford  ( see  vol.  i,  269),  one  at  least  of  the 
Colletts  of  Westerfield  seems  to  have  emigrated  to  Norway  towards  the  close  of  the  seventeenth 
century.  A  member  of  the  family  writes,  “  I  think  it  was  in  1877,  when  travelling  in  Norway, 
I  met  with  a  Mr  Collett  living  in  a  charming  house  called  Lundbygaard  near  Nestved,  at  the 
southern  extremity  of  the  island  of  Sielland.  He  told  me  that  his  family  came  out  from  England 
in  the  reign  of  James  II.  They  settled  first  in  Bergen,  then  removed  to  Christiania  and  eventually 
to  Denmark.  He  shewed  me  a  house,  a  very  handsome  one,  in  Sielland,  which  had  belonged  to 
the  Colletts ;  and  over  the  chimney  pieces  were  carved  our  Collett  arms.”  Mr.  Alf  Collett  of 
Christiana,  who  published  “  Families  Collett,”  was  one  of  this  family. 

Muskett  of  Haughley.  There  was  a  younger  branch  of  the  Haughley  Musketts,  whose  eighteenth 
century  gravestones  line  the  path  leading  to  the  chancel  door.  Amongst  their  descendants  were 
Thomas  Willis  Muskett,  an  officer  who  served  in  the  Peninsular  war,  and  his  brother,  George  Alfred 
Muskett,  M.P.  for  St.  Alban’s  in  the  earlier  half  of  the  nineteenth  century.  Mary  Anne,  the 
daughter  of  the  latter,  married  Henry  Woodman  of  Rickmansworth. 


INDEX 


The  Capitals  refer  to  the  Sectional  Divisions  of  this  Volume. 


PAGE. 

PAGE. 

Aliington,  “  Old  Sir  Giles  ” 

..  242,  371 

Benger,  Sir  Thomas,  1572,  Will 

46 

Alston,  Henry  and  Susan  Dav,  1674,  Mar 

405 

Bigod,  Garney’s  Descent  from 

’ 2G0, 

265 

Arnold  of  Lowestoft,  Royal  Descent  . . 

176 

Bishop,  Richard,  1538,  Will 

.  • 

336 

Aspin,  Harvey,  LL.B.  1791,  Will 

172 

Blois  Manuscript,  The 

. . 

73 

Bolton  of  Woodbridge 

..  214-222 

„  Arms,  Grant  of,  etc. 

. .  214, 

220 

,,  Arms  (Norfolk) 

215 

,,  c.  Carey,  1708,  Chan.  Bill 

219 

Bacon,  Nathaniel  (Ipswich),  1654 

125 

,,  Carleton  c.,  1637,  Chan.  Bill  . . 

. . 

216 

Barber  of  Bury,  Pedigree,  Caius  Coll.  . . 

252 

,,  Mary,  1683,  Will 

. . 

218 

Barker,  Francis,  1603,  Will 

141 

,,  Pedigree 

..  221-222 

Baron  Pedigree,  Norfolk  Visit.,  1664  . . 

304 

„  Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.,  1177 

220 

Barnes,  Hovell  c.  1633,  Chancery  Proceedings 

41 

,,  Royal  Descent 

.  . 

208 

Barrett  of  Westhall 

..  153-160 

„  Samuel,  of  Woodbridge,  1712 

219 

„  Arms  and  Quarterings 

158,  159,  160 

,,  Thomas,  1616,  Will 

.  . 

215 

„  Christopher,  1645,  Deposition  .. 

192 

,,  Thomas,  1616,  M.l. 

.  . 

220 

„  Christopher,  1649,  Will 

157 

,,  Thomas,  1663,  Will 

.  . 

218 

„  Geoffrey,  1485,  Will 

155 

,,  Wiseman,  1658,  Will 

218 

„  Joan,  1526,  Will 

156 

Booty,  John,  1775,  Will 

.  . 

96 

„  John  (Bury),  1463,  Will 

153 

Boswell,  Hugh,  Will 

25 

„  John,  1510,  Will 

155 

Bradstreet,  Simon,  of  Massachusetts  . . 

369 

„  Pedigree  (Harl.  MS.,  1560,  etc.) 

160 

Bridgeman,  Royal  Descent  . . 

316 

„  Suckling  Marriage 

193 

Bright  of  St.  Edmundsbury 

..  136-152 

„  Thomas,  1671,  Statement  of  . . 

158 

„  of  Bury,  Pedigree 

151 

„  William,  1565,  Will 

156 

„  of  Netherhall,  Pedigree 

150 

Barrow  of  Westhorpe 

..  238-240 

„  of  New  England,  Pedigree 

.  . 

151 

,,  Arms  and  Quarterings 

238 

,,  of  Talmach  Hall,  Pedigree 

149 

„  Maurice,  1665,  Will 

238 

„  Arms 

.  . 

136 

„  Pedigree  (Harl.  MS.  1560,  etc.) 

240 

„  Jasper,  1609,  Admon. 

143 

„  William,  1613,  Will 

238 

„  Margaret,  1599,  Will 

140 

Barwick,  Adam,  1552,  Will 

186 

„  Pedigrees,  Suffolk  Visitn.,  1664 

148 

Bassano  of  London,  1633 

51 

,,  Pedigree,  Candler  MSS. 

148 

Beaumont  of  Bildeston 

..  321-334 

,,  Robert,  1650,  Will  . . 

-•  • 

144 

.Beaumont  of  Southwold 

..  335,336 

„  Thomas,  1587,  Will 

136 

„  of  Bildeston,  Pedigree 

331 

,,  Thomas,  43  Eliz.  Inquisition  . . 

.  . 

137 

„  of  Coggeshall,  Pedigree 

334 

„  Thomas,  1628,  Sentence 

Brise worth,  Alicia  de,  1250,  Curia  Regis 

.  . 

144 

„  of  Hadleigh,  Pedigree 

333 

78 

,,  of  Ipswich,  Pedigree 

..  332,406 

Brook,  William,  1556,  Will  . . 

26 

„  of  Southwold,  Pedigree 

336 

Bugge  of  Needham  and  Creeting 

.  . 

288 

.,  Arms  (Bildeston) 

321 

Burrell  of  Sussex  and  Kent 

.  . 

96 

,,  Arms  (Kent) 

335 

„  Alexander,  1771,  M.l. 

.  . 

98 

„  Arms  (Whitley,  co.  York)  . . 

321 

„  Benjamin,  1719,  Will 

328 

„  Bildeston  Manor  Books  . . 

329 

„  Charles,  D.D.,  1725,  Will  . . 

328 

Cake,  Alice,  1488,  Will 

,  . 

283 

,,  Edward,  1645,  Will 

324 

Carew,  Sir  Nicholas,  1644,  Will 

146 

„  John,  1543,  Will 

321 

Carey  of  Halesworth 

. .  223,  224 

„  John,  1641,  Will 

323 

„  Arms 

224 

John,  1724,  Will 

329 

„  Bolton,  e.  1708,  Chan.  Bill 

219 

„  Joseph,  1681,  Will 

325 

„  Pedigree 

.  . 

224 

„  Julyon,  1586,  Will 

323 

„  William,  1686,  WiU 

Carleton,  c.  Bolton,  1637,  Chan.  Proc.  . . 

.  . 

223 

„  Pedigree,  Kent  Visit.,  1616 

335 

.  . 

216 

,,  Pedigrees,  Suffolk  Visit.,  1664 

330 

Carter,  Barnard,  1664,  Will  . . 

94 

„  Robert,  1551,  Will 

322 

„  Rachel,  1708,  Will 

.  . 

94 

„  Thomas,  1582,  Will 

335 

Chaplyn,  c.  Woodgate,  1627 

.  . 

139 

William,  1707,  Will 

327 

Cheslyn,  Robert,  1651,  Will 

3  c 

42 

410 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ChEVALLIER 

PAGE. 

259 

„  Pedigree,  Davy  MSS. 

.  . 

267 

Clench,  Mary,  1685,  Will  . . 

92 

„  Pedigree,  Revett  MSS. 

101 

Clerebeck  of  Acton,  Arms  . . 

394 

„  Thomas,  1526,  Inquisition 

394 

Cock,  Margaret,  1607,  Will  . . 

.  . 

371 

Cocksedge,  Muskett,  c.  1613,  Bill 

.  . 

371 

Coell,  Sir  John,  1688,  Will  . . 

258 

Collett  op  Westerfield 

352-362.  407 

,,  of  Bury,  Pedigree  . . 

362 

,,  of  Denmark 

407 

,,  of  Hawstead,  Pedigree 

362 

,,  of  Kent,  Pedigree  . . 

.  . 

361 

„  of  London,  Pedigree 

.  . 

362 

,,  of  Norfolk,  Pedigree 

362 

„  of  Westerfield,  Pedigree 

. .  360,  361 

,,  Arms,  Grant  of,  1664 

352 

„  Anthony,  1677,  Will 

356 

„  Anthony,  1783,  Will 

.  . 

358 

„  Bridget,  1662,  Will 

354 

„  Cornelius,  1688,  Admon. 

.  . 

357 

,,  Cornelius,  1741,  Will 

,  . 

358 

„  Cornelius,  1789,  Will 

359 

,,  John,  1599,  Will  . . 

353 

„  Pedigree,  Blois  MS. 

359 

„  Philologus,  1646,  Will 

.  . 

354 

,,  Samuel,  1681,  Will 

.  , 

356 

„  Samuel,  1710,  Will 

357 

Cooke,  Richard,  1605,  Will  . . 

370 

,,  Smith,  c.  1563,  Chanc.  Proc. 

15 

Corrigenda  et  Addenda  . . 

,  , 

..  403-407 

Crane  of  Coggeshall,  Pedigree 

135 

,,  Pedigree,  Candler  MSS. 

133 

,,  Robert,  1658,  Will  . . 

124 

,,  Robert,  1666,  Will  . . 

126 

„  Samuel,  1669,  Will  . . 

.  . 

126 

Curtis,  Luke,  1680,  Will 

92 

Dameron,  John,  1596,  Will  . . 

352 

Danvers,  c.  Hovell,  Petition,  Eliz.  B.  and  A.,  1585 

48 

,,  John,  1556,  Will  . . 

,  , 

48 

„  of  Oxfordshire,  Pedigree 

.  . 

47 

„  c.  Winchester  Coll.,  1585,  Chanc.  Proc. 

48 

Devereux  of  Bacton,  Pedigree  Harl.  MS.  6071 

164 

Dickenson  and  Muskett,  Deeds 

.  . 

. .  374,  375 

Doiley  of  Oxfordshire 

.  . 

. .  47,  48 

Dowsing,  Elizabeth,  1681,  Will 

*  * 

356 

Eden,  Dame  Beatrice,  1623  . . 

374 

Elias,  Bishop  of  the  Jews,  1250 

.  . 

59 

Elsden,  Richard,  1637,  Will 

.  , 

91 

Estaugh,  alias  Easthall,  Family  of 

177,  178,  202 

Farmar  of  Ireland 

40 

Filliols,  Manor  of 

.  . 

. .  275,  280 

Folkes  op  Rushbrook 

..  106-113 

„  of  Cheveley,  Pedigree 

113 

„  of  Hillington,  Pedigree 

.  . 

112 

„  of  Rushbrook,  Pedigree 

.  • 

112 

,,  Arms 

.  • 

..  106,  111 

,,  Martin,  1571,  Will  . . 

.  . 

86 

,,  Martin,  1637,  Will  . . 

.  . 

108 

„  Martin,  1665,  Will  . . 

•  • 

110  , 

Folkes,  Martin,  1705,  Will  . . 

PAGE. 

110’ 

„  Pedigree,  Cambridge  Visit.,  1684 

111 

„  Rickes,  als.  Folkes,  Anne,  1575,  Will 

107 

,,  Simon,  1508,  Will 

107 

„  Simon,  1641,  Will 

109 

■  „  Simon,  of  Cheveley,  M.I. 

113 

„  Thomas,  1588,  Will 

108- 

„  William,  1495,  Will 

106 

„  William,  1637,  Will 

109 

Fox,  William,  1676,  Will 

355 

Freston,  Susanna,  1641,  Will 

145 

Fulmerston,  Heyward,  May 

..  209-213 

,,  Arms,  Grant  of 

211 

,.  Pedigree  of  . . 

213 

„  Sir  Richard,  1566,  Will  . . 

209 

Garneys  op  Kenton,  Chevallier 

..  259-267 

„  of  Kenton,  Pedigree 

265 

„  of  Mickfield,  Pedigree 

. .  265,  266 

„  Arms  and  Quarterings 

259 

,,  Charles,  1765,  Will 

264 

,,  Descent  from  Bygot 

. .  260,  265 

„  Elizabeth,  1557,  Will  . .  1 

262 

„  Jane,  1732,  Will  . . 

264 

,,  John,  1522,  Will  . . 

261 

„  John,  1579,  Will  . . 

263 

„  John,  1706,  Will  . . 

266 

„  John,  1797,  Will  . . 

266 

,,  Nicholas,  1652,  Will 

253 

,,  Royal  Descent 

268 

,,  Thomas,  1547,  Will 

262 

„  William,  1421,  Will 

259 

„  William,  1525,  Will 

261 

Gentleman  of  Southwold,  Pedigree 

183 

Goodwin,  Mary,  1647,  Will 

28 

,,  Olive,  1653,  Will 

4 

,,  Robert,  Hollesly,  1664 

356 

„  Temperance 

. .  355,  356 

Groom,  Roger,  1565,  Story  of 

371 

„  Rattlesden  Registers 

372 

Gurdon-Clarke  Marriage.  1765 

346 

Harrison  Manuscripts,  The . . 

73 

„  John,  clerk,  1639,  Will 

404 

„  c.  Pretyman,  1598 

298 

„  c.  Suckling,  1628 

212 

,,  of  Sudbury,  Pedigree 

133 

„  Thomas,  1586,  Will 

211 

Hautville,  Family  and  Arms 

. .  54,  56 

Havell  of  Suffolk, 

. .  55,  84 

Hawkeryt,  Edmund,  1567,  Will 

245 

Hemenhale,  Sir  William  de.  1379,  Will  . . 

69 

Heyward,  Fulmerston,  May 

..  209-213 

„  c.  Gostling,  1589,  Chanc.  Proc. 

212 

,,  Pedigree  (Ipswich  and  Banham)  . .  213 

„  c.  Suckling,  1628,  Chanc.  Proc. 

212 

„  Thomas,  1586,  Will 

211 

High  Hall  Manor,  co.  Cambr. 

. .  85,  86 

Horpole  Manor  in  Wickham  Market 

22,  57,  60,  71,  74 

Horsman,  Thomas,  1563 

2 

Houghton,  Sir  Robert,  1625,  Will 

143 

Hovell  of  Ashfield 

1-13 

Hoveli.  of  Badwell 

14-21,  403 

Hovell  of  Dallinghoo 

22,  23,  79 

Hovell  of  Elstree 

. .  85-105- 

INDEX.  411 


PAGE. 

PAGE. 

.HOVELL  OF  HAUGHLEY 

24-37 

Hovell,  Hugh,  son  of  Sir  Hugh,  1396  . . 

.  . 

72 

Hovell  of  Ireland 

38-40 

99 

Ireland,  Traditional  History 

40 

Hovell  of  London 

41-44 

99 

Isaac,  Fines,  etc.,  1619 

18 

HOVELL  OF  SULGRAVE 

45-48 

»> 

Irstede  Manor 

63 

Hovell  of  Surrey 

49-52 

99 

Jewell,  Hogan,  1606,  Fine 

43 

Hovell  of  Wyverstone 

54-84 

99 

Jews,  Dealings  with,  1250 

59 

Hovell,  alias  Smith,  Origin  of  the  name 

24 

99 

Joan,  widow  of  Sir  Robert 

70,  72 

99 

See  also  Smith. 

99 

John  and  Agnes,  1299,  Fine 

81 

99 

of  Ashfield,  Pedigree 

12 

99 

John,  Barham,  1692,  Will 

6 

99 

of  Badwell,  Pedigrees 

. .  21,  53 

99 

John,  Brent  Illeigh,  1600,  Will 

18 

of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Pedigree . . 

103 

9* 

John,  Bury,  1515,  Will 

84 

99 

of  Cowling,  Pedigree 

77,  82,  83,  404 

99 

John,  Fellow  of  Eton 

52 

99 

of  Dallinghoo,  Pedigree 

23 

,, 

John  and  Griffin,  1343 

65 

99 

of  Elstree,  Pedigree 

104 

John  and  Helen,  1594 

16, 

17,  18 

99 

of  Haughley,  Pedigree 

37 

99 

John  of  Hunston,  1607 

52 

99 

of  Hillington,  Pedigree 

. .  36,  37 

99 

John,  Iffley,  1557,  Will 

45 

99 

of  Hunterston,  Pedigree 

. .  75,  77 

99 

John  and  Julian,  1597,  Fine 

17 

♦ 99 

of  Langham,  Pedigree 

. .  21,  403 

99 

John,  King’s  College,  1706 

51 

99 

of  London,  Pedigree 

44 

99 

John  and  Matilda,  1357 

68 

99 

of  Mount  Hovell,  Cork 

39 

99 

John,  Parham,  1568,  Will 

23 

99 

of  Sulgrave,  Pedigree 

47 

99 

John,  Pettaugh,  1568,  Will 

23 

-99 

of  Wetherden,  Pedigree 

13 

99 

John,  Wyverstone,  1258 

61 

99 

of  Wyverstone,  Pedigree 

. .  76,  85 

99 

John,  Barham,  1692,  Will 

6 

■99 

Ada,  widow  of  Hubert,  1253 

. .  60,  79 

99 

Kirtling  lands 

Knights’  Fees  in  Suffolk,  1346  . . 

83, 

85,  88 

99 

Adam,  temp.  Hen.  Ill 

56,  77,  78 

99 

64 

99 

Alan  (Rughhaghe),  1292 

30 

99 

Langham  Registers 

20 

99 

Alianora,  1271 

63,  67,  79 

99 

Leofstan’s  Charter  . . 

56 

99 

Alice,  widow  of  Ralph,  1229 

57 

,, 

Liber  Pinchebeck,  c.  1070 

55 

‘99 

Alice  (Gaywood),  1655,  Will 

28 

99 

Luke  and  Isabella,  1337 

82 

99 

Anne,  wife  of  Thomas,  1777,  M.I. 

99 

99 

Margaret,  1655,  Will 

4 

99 

Arms  (Ashfield) 

1,  10 

99 

Martin,  Ashfield,  1258 

1 

99 

Arms  (Elstree) 

..  102,404 

99 

Martin  and  Sarah,  1269 

61,  62 

99 

Arms  (Haughley  and  Hillington) 

24 

99 

Mary,  1694,  Will 

93 

99 

Arms  (London) 

44 

99 

Mirabel,  1631,  Will 

3 

Arms  (Sulgrave) 

45 

99 

Monumental  Inscriptions  : — 

99 

Arms  (Wyverstone) 

55 

Adstock 

99 

99 

Ashfield  Lands,  purchase  of,  1252 

1 

Badwell  Ash 

99 

99 

Ashfield  Terrier,  1512 

25 

Bury  St.  Edmunds 

98 

99 

Badwell  Lands,  Sale  of 

16 

Cheltenham 

100 

■99 

c.  Barnes,  1633,  Chanc.  Proc.  . . 

41 

Hillington 

33 

- 99  . 

Bartholomew,  1291 

. .  66,  67 

Mildenhall 

34 

99 

Brent  Illeigh  Manor,  sale  of 

15 

Napier,  N.Z. 

100 

99 

Barnard  Carter,  1716,  M.I. 

98 

Sudbury 

98 

■99 

Charterhouse,  Mr.  of  the,  1716  . . 

32 

Wyverstone 

99 

"99 

Chichele  descent 

35 

99 

Oliver,  1667,  Will  . . 

92 

- 99 

of  Cowling 

77,  80,  82,  86 

99 

Oliver,  1722,  Will  . . 

95 

99 

Dame  Etheldreda,  1685,  Will  . . 

31 

99 

Pedigree,  Blois  MS. 

73 

Edward  of  Bury,  1605,  Will 

89 

99 

Pedigree,  Camden’s  Visit. 

9 

99 

Edward,  junior,  1590,  Fine 

89 

99 

Pedigree,  Candler  MSS. 

9 

"99 

Elizabeth,  1745,  Will 

96 

99 

Pedigree,  From  Will,  1540 

14 

.'99 

Exning,  Entries  in  Registers  . . 

97 

99 

Pedigree,  Harrison  MSS. 

74,  75 

99 

Farmar-Hovell  Marriage,  1700  . . 

40 

99 

Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.,  1103 

10,  11 

99 

Fines,  etc.,  1240-1230 

77 

99 

Pedigree  (Langham),  Harl.  MS.,  1560 
Pedigree,  Le  Neve’s  Knights  . . 

20 

99 

Foxes,  License  to  hunt,  1251  . . 

52 

99 

35 

99 

Francis,  Ashfield,  1692,  Will  . . 

6 

99 

Pedigree,  London  Visit. 

44 

99 

Francis,  1671,  Will 

30 

99 

Pedigree,  Norfolk  Visit. 

35 

99 

of  Gaywood 

. .  28,  37 

99 

Pedigree,  Oxford  Visit. 

47 

99 

Griffin,  1343,  Coheirs  of 

65 

99 

Penigree,  Surrey  Visit. 

53 

99 

Grisell  (Ireland),  1674,  Will  . . 

38 

99 

Penelope,  1717,  Will 

31 

99 

Henry,  1562,  Fine,  etc. 

. .  22,  23 

*9 

Pettistree,  Estate  and  M.I. 

29,  34 

■99 

Hogan,  1655,  Will 

43 

99 

Rachel,  Bury,  1723,  Will 

95 

99 

Hubert,  Ada  his  widow,  1258  .  - 

60 

99 

Ralph,  1229 

57 

M 

Hubert,  1253,  Marriage  of 

59 

99 

Richard,  c.  1066 

55 

99 

Hugh  and  Agnes,  1326,  Fine  . . 

81 

99 

Richard,  Esquire  to  H.  6 

10,  68 

99 

Hugh,  son  of  Alianora,  1292 

63 

99 

Richard,  Cowling,  1450,  Will  . . 

.  . 

403 

■99 

Hugh,  Bealings,  etc..  Manors,  1385 

69 

99 

Richard,  Hillington,  1068 

27 

99 

Hugh,  Haughley,  1596,  Will 

26 

„ 

Richard,  Bury,  1616,  Will 

98 

99 

Hugh,  Holkham,  116,  Will 

27 

99 

Richard,  Hillington,  1649 

29,  33 

99 

Hugh,  Ireland,  1709,  Will 

39 

99 

Richard,  Wetherden,  1652 

4 

99 

Hugh  and  Joan,  1301,  Fine 

77 

99 

Richard,  Gaywood,  1713 

31 

-99 

Hugh,  Kenninghall,  1690,  M.I.  . . 

34 

Richard,  Bury,  1716,  Will 

3'c2 

94 

412 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


PAGE. 

PAGE. 

Hovell,  Robert  and  Alianora,  1349 

67 

Jermyn  Pedigrees,  Candler  MSS. 

25¥ 

„  Robert  and  Margery,  1225 

. .  57,  58 

99 

Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.,  1560 

254 

„  Robert,  Licences,  etc.,  1231 

. .  58,  68 

99 

Pedigree,  Suffolk  Visit.,  1561  . . 

252 

„  Robert,  son  of  Robert,  1250  . . 

59,  62,  77,  78 

99 

Pedigree,  Suffolk  Visit.,  1612  . . 

253 

„  Robert,  son  of  Bartholomew  . . 

. .  66,  67 

99 

Rebecca,  wife  of  Thomas,  1629 

250' 

„  Robert,  son  of  Sir  Hugh,  1333 

77 

99 

Sir  Ambrose,  1577,  Inq.  p.m.  . . 

246 

,,  Robert  and  Joan,  1363 

72 

99 

Thomas,  1505,  Inq.  p.m. 

245- 

,,  Robert,  Dallinghoo,  1524,  Will  . . 

22 

99 

Thomas,  Depden,  1617,  Admon. 

249 

,,  Robert,  Wendling,  1566,  Will  . . 

41 

99 

Thomas,  West  Tofts,  1656,  Will 

250 

,,  Robert,  Ashfield,  1602,  Will 

2 

99 

William,  West  Tofts,  1606,  Inq.  p.m. 

248 

,,  Robert,  Walsham,  1611,  Will  .. 

3 

Jews,  The,  in  1250 

59 

,,  Robert,  Ashfield,  1672,  Will 

5 

Jugge, 

a  mis-reading  of  Ingge 

404 

„  and  Ryce,  Dallingho,  1563 

23 

„  Simon,  1620,  Will  . . 

5 

„  Sir  Hugh,  c.  1330,  . . 

64,  72,  77 

Keble 

of  Stowmarket 

269-280,  406 

,,  Sir  Richard,  1642,  Will 

34 

99 

of  Earl  Stonham,  Pedigree 

278 

,,  Sir  Robert,  c.  1320  . . 

70 

,, 

of  Filliols,  Pedigree 

280 

,,  Sir  William,  1669,  Will 

30 

99 

of  Old  Newton,  Pedigree 

279 

,,  Stephen,  1292 

62,  64,  65 

99 

of  Stowmarket,  Pedigree 

277 

„  Stephen,  Kirtling,  1552 

86 

99 

Arms  and  Quarterings 

269 

„  Stratford  Registers  . . 

34 

99 

Edmund,  Stonham,  1550 

270' 

„  and  Sturges,  1583,  Fine 

17 

99 

Giles,  1623,  Will 

271 

„  Thomas,  Cowling,  1433,  Will  . . 

83 

99 

Jeffery,  1660,  Will 

272 

„  Thomas,  Pettistree,  1648 

. .  29,  34 

99 

John  the  Heir,  1530,  Will 

269 

„  Thomas,  Ashfield,  1668,  Will 

5 

99 

John  the  Heir,  1565,  Will 

270 

„  Thomas,  Bury,  1723,  Will 

98 

99 

John,  Halesworth,  1652 

272 

„  Thomas,  Bacton,  1777,  M.I. 

99 

99 

Joseph,  1710,  Will  .. 

275 

„  William  (?),  temp.  William  I,  1066 

73 

99 

Mary,  1678,  Will 

273 

„  William,  son  of  Martin,  1286  . . 

77 

99 

Nathaniel,  1661,  Will 

273 

„  William,  son  of  Hugh,  1315 

63 

99 

Pedigree,  Add.  MS.  5524 

. .  269,  277 

„  William,  son  of  Richard,  1344 

82 

99 

Pedigrees,  Candler  MS. 

276 

,,  William,  Weybread,  1346 

. .  64,  65 

99 

Pedigree,  London  Visit.,  1664  . . 

276 

„  William,  Kirtling,  1552 

85 

99 

Pedigree,  Suffolk  Visit.,  1664  . . 

276 

„  William,  Haughley,  1582,  Will 

26 

99 

Richard,  1683,  Will 

273 

,,  William,  Sulgrave,  1610,  M.I.  . . 

46 

99 

Stephen,  1678,  Will 

275. 

„  William,  Bury,  1686,  Will 

93 

99 

Thomas,  Coggeshall,  1690,  Will 

274 

„  William,  Portsmouth,  1669,  Will 

33 

99 

Thomas,  Old  Newton,  1646 

272 

,,  William,  Ireland,  1697,  Will  . . 

39 

Thomas,  Old  Newton,  1684 

274 

„  William,  Badwell,  1768,  Will,  etc. 

. .  96,  99 

99 

Thorney  Campsey  Manor 

271 

Howe,  Robert,  1701,  Will 

131 

99 

William  the  Heir,  1608 

271 

“  Howell,”  for  Hovell 

44 

Kempe 

of  Beccles 

..  225-237 

Hubbard,  William,  1583,  Will 

16 

99 

of  Beccles,  Pedigree 

236 

„  of  New  England 

127 

99 

of  Ubbeston,  Pedigree 

237 

Huntington  of  New  England 

..  158,  159 

9* 

of  Weston,  Suffolk,  Pedigree  .  . 

225 

99 

Alen  of  Weston,  1318,  Fine 

225 

99 

Alexander,  1327 

. .  226,  235 

99 

Arms  and  Quarterings 

. .  225,  235 

“  Ingg  ”  (not  Jugg) 

..  87,  119 

99 

Butvilein  Marriage 

. .  225,  226- 

Ireland 

. .  38,  39,  40 

Dame  Amy 

233 

Istede,  or  Irstede,  Manor  . . 

. .  63,  74 

99 

Edward,  1671,  Fell,  of  Queen’s  Coll. 

235 

Ive  Family  of  Suffolk 

162 

99 

Elizabeth,  1540,  Will 

234 

Ive  of  Suffolk,  Notes 

. .  162-405 

99 

Elizabeth,  Twynstead,  1662,  Will 

406 

99 

Frances,  1689,  Will.. 

232 

99 

Geoffrey,  son  of  Alan,  1316,  Fine 

226 

99 

Hartshorn  Marriage,  1460 

226 

Jem mett- Browne,  Archbishop 

40 

99 

Hovell  and  Kempe  Marriage,  1608 

228 

Jentelman,  see  Gentleman. 

99 

John,  1610,  Will 

228 

J ERMYN  OP  RtJSHBROOK 

..  243-259 

99 

Nelson’s  Descent  from 

.  .  234,  242 

„  of  Depden,  Pedigrees 

..  253,256 

99 

Pedigrees,  Ancient  . . 

406 

„  of  Hockham,  Pedigrees 

. .  253,  256 

99 

Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.,  1154 

235 

„  of  Rushbrook,  Pedigrees 

..  254,255 

99 

Pedigree,  Suffolk  Visit.,  1612  . . 

235 

„  of  West  Tofts,  Pedigrees 

257 

99 

Richard,  1599,  Will 

227 

„  Anne,  West  Tofts,  1665,  Will  . . 

258 

99 

Richard,  Virginia,  1649,  Will  . . 

23B 

„  Arms  and  Quarterings 

243 

99 

Robert,  Weston,  1460,  Close  Roll 

226 

„  Dame  Mary,  1670,  Will 

251 

99 

Robert,  1526,  Will  and  Inquisition 

227 

,,  Edmund,  1597,  Will 

247 

99 

Robert,  of  Bury,  1593 

. .  228,  406 

,,  Elizabeth,  1626,  Will 

249 

99 

Robert,  1667,  Will 

230 

„  John,  Depden,  1607,  Inq.  p.m. 

248 

99 

Royal  Descent 

. .  234,  241 

,,  John,  West  Tofts,  1628,  Inq  p.m. 

250 

99 

Sir  Robert,  1646,  Will 

229 

„  Margaret,  w.  of  Thomas,  1431,  Will 

244 

99 

Sir  Robert,  1704,  Will 

! !  233 

,,  Mary,  West  Tofts,  1547,  Will  . . 

258 

99 

Sir  Robert,  1754,  Will 

233- 

Kerrington,  Hellen,  1664,  Will 
King  Charles  II,  Letter  of  . . 

„  Mary,  1654,  Will 
Kirtling,  Lands  in.  Fines  . . 
Kitchener,  Lord,  Suffolk  Ancestry 
Knapp,  Robert,  1563,  Will 


Layton,  Elizabeth,  1685,  M.I. 
Leofstan’s  Saxon  Charter  . . 
LestrangE  of  Pakenham  . . 

Arms  and  Quarterings 
Dame  Alice,  1616,  Will 
Hamon,  1660,  Will 
Hamon,  1762,  Will 
Pedigree 
Royal  Descent  . . 


INDEX. 


PAGE. 

19 
313 
299 
.  83,  88 

266 
2 


Muskett, 


132 

56 

..  171-176 
171 

171 

172 
406 

..  173,  174 
175 


413 

Henry,  1620,  Inq.  p.m. 

372 

John,  clerk,  1455,  Will 

365 

John,  Bressingham,  1649,  Will 

375 

John,  Haughley,  1665,  Will  . . 

376 

John,  Botesdale,  1688,  Will  .. 

377 

Ladies  Manor,  Rockland 

. .  368,  380 

Pedigrees 

..  379-381 

Pedigrees,  Blois  MS. 

378 

Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.  2109  .. 

378 

Pedigree,  Sketch  (Norfolk,  etc.) 

382 

Pedigree,  Suffolk  Visit.,  1612 

378 

Richard  and  Joan,  1517,  Charter 

366 

Richard,  1558,  Will 

367 

Richard,  1626,  Will 

373 

Richard,  1641,  Sale  of  lands  — 

374 

Richard,  1676,  Will 

376 

Sibbes,  Family  of 

Simon,  of  Gray’s  Inn 

. .  368,  369 

373 

William,  1451,  Will 

364 

William,  1543,  Will 

366 

William,  1594,  Will 

369 

Manclerk,  John,  “  Disposition  ”  of,  . .  185,  202 

Mann,  Edward,  Marriages  of  . .  ..  166,  167 

,,  Jane,  1679,  Will  . .  . .  . .  166 

Manning,  Jane  Philippa,  1770,  M.I.  ..  ..  99 

May,  Fulmerston,  Heyward  ..  ..  209,  213 

Meadows,  Anna,  1706,  Will  . .  . .  . .  327 

Monceux,  Robert  and  Joan,  1394  . .  . .  72,  403 

Monchensy,  Thomas,  1387,  Fine,  etc.  ..  ..  70,  71 

Monyngs,  Margery,  1598,  Will  . .  . .  18 

Morden  of  Exning  ..  ..  ..  114-120 

Arms,  1368  and  1664  . .  . .  120 

College  ..  ..  ..  103,  120 

Exning  Parsonage  ..  87,  115,  116,  118 

George,  1624,  Will  ..  ..  116 

John,  Bradley,  1686,  Will  ..  ..  117 

John,  Exning,  1556,  Will  ..  ..  114 

John,  Southwark,  1612,  Will  ..  ..  115 

Lord  Suffield’s  Descent  ..  118,  119,404 

Mary,  Southwark,  Admon.  . .  . .  115 

Monumental  Inscriptions  ..  ..  119 

c.  Morden,  1583  ..  ..  ..  118 

c.  Morden,  1674  ..  ..  ..  118 

Nicholas,  1583  ..  ..  ..  118 

Oliver,  Southwark,  1613  ..  ..  115 

Oliver,  Exning,  1621,  Will  ..  ..  115 

Oliver,  Exning,  1626,  Will  ..  ..  116 

Pedigrees,  Bradley  and  Exning  ..  119,  120 

Pedigree,  Coll,  of  Arms  . .  . .  404 

Robert,  son  of  Roger,  1679  . .  ..  117 

Roger,  1635,  Inq.  p.m.  ..  ..  117 

Sir  John  . .  . .  . .  103,  120 

Tomb  at  Exning  ..  ..  ..  119 

Tomb  at  Soham  ..  ..  ..  117 

William,  1574,  Will  ..  ..  87 

William  and  Frances,  1600  ..  ..  114 

Morston,  Manor  of  . .  . .  . .  81 

Muschett  of  Cambridgeshire  . .  363,  364,  379 

Muskett  of  Haughley  . .  363-381,  407 

Arms,  Confirmation  of,  etc.  . .  . .  363,  364 

Bradley  Marriage,  1563  . .  . .  381 

Bradstreet  Marriage  . .  . .  369 

Charles,  Frenze,  1678,  Will  . .  . .  377 

c.  Cocksedge,  1613,  Chanc.  Proc.  ..  371 

Dickenson  ct.  Close  Rolls  . .  . .  374,  375 

George  Alfred  . .  . .  . .  407 

Gibson  Marriage,  1599  ..  ..  376 

Harleston  Manor,  Add.  MS.  15,520  ..  381 

Henry,  buys  lands,  1366,  Fine  . .  364 

Henry,  1468,  Will  . .  . .  366 

Henry,  1595,  Inq.  p.m.  . .  . .  370 

Henry,  Fritton,  1613,  Admon.  . .  372 


Nelson,  Lord,  Royal  Descents 

. .  207,  241 

„  „  Suffolk  Ancestry 

198,  199,  206,  222 

Newcomen,  Hannah,  Will  . . 

128 

„  Pedigrees 

132,  133,  135 

Newdigate  Pedigree,  Harl.  MS. 

2109  . . 

378 

New  England 

121-127,  133,  134,  135,  147, 
150,  151,  152,  158,  159,  160 

Norris,  Sarah,  1698,  Will  . . 

,  . 

326 

Nunn  Charter,  1564,  Note  . . 

.  . 

164 

Orkney,  Earl  of,  1581,  Arms 

282 

Oxford,  Earl  of,  and  Stubbin,  1580,  Fine 

. .  341,  347 

Partridge  of  Acton 

..  386-402 

Partridge  of  Finborough 

..  161-164 

Partridge  of  Shelley  Hall 

165-170,  405 

Partridge  of  West  Suffolk 

..  384,385 

„  of  Acton,  Pedigrees 

. .  170,  400 

„  of  Finborough,  Pedigree  . . 

164 

„  of  Herefordshire 

. .  170,  405 

„  of  Shelley  Hall  . . 

. .  168,  169 

„  of  Tuddenham,  Pedigree  . . 

402 

„  of  Whelnetham,  Pedigree  . . 

. .  398,  401 

„  Arms  (Finborough) 

161 

„  Arms  (Herefordshire) 

405 

,,  and  Day,  mar.  1664 

405 

,,  and  Devereux,  Candler  MS. 

164 

,,  Etymology  of  Surname 

384 

„  George,  1542,  Will 

395 

„  Isbell,  1545,  Will 

395 

„  John,  Fordham,  1477,  Will 

402 

„  John,  Whelnetham,  1624,  Will 

399 

„  Katherine,  1443,  Will 

386 

„  Mawde,  1494,  Will 

390 

„  Parish  Register  Entries 

. .  162,  396 

„  Pedigree,  Suffolk  Visit.,  1577 

162 

„  Portraits 

405 

„  and  Quarles,  Marriages 

167 

„  Richard,  1610,  Will 

399 

„  Robert,  Acton,  1468,  Will  . . 

386 

„  Robert,  Sudbury,  1489,  Will 

..  387-390 

„  Robert,  Acton,  1525,  Will  . . 

392 

„  Robert,  Finborough,  1594  . . 

163 

„  Slaying  of  John  P.,  1608  . . 

398 

414 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


PAGE. 

1 

PAGE. 

Partridge, 

Stubbin  Marriage 

405 

Rich,  Sir  Edwin,  Will 

195 

99 

Thomas  Higham,  1585,  Note 

165 

Rodway,  Rebecca  (Lady  Brouncker)  . . 

275 

99 

Thorington  Registers 

405 

Rouse,  Christopher,  1566 

41 

99 

William,  Acton,  1483 

387 

Royal  Descents,  Arnold 

. .  175,  176 

99 

William,  Whelnetham,  1586 

397 

,,  „  Bolton 

208 

Patrick  of 

Whelnetham,  Pedigree 

401 

„  „  Bridgeman 

316 

Pinchbeck, 

Liber 

55 

„  „  Chevallier 

268 

Pretyman 

of  Bacton 

281-320,  406 

„  „  Garneys 

268 

99 

of  Bacton,  Pedigree 

..  305-308 

„  ,,  Kempe 

241 

99 

of  Buckinghamshire,  Pedigree 

314 

„  „  Lestrange 

. .  175,  176 

99 

of  Driffield,  Pedigree 

..  311-313 

„  „  Nelson 

207,  208,  241 

99 

of  London,  Pedigree 

310 

„  ,,  Pretyman.. 

..  316,  317 

** 

of  Orwell  Park,  Pedigree  . . 

308 

„  „  Suckling  .. 

207,  208,  241 

99 

of  Thomdon,  Pedigree 

309 

Rughhage  Manor 

80 

99 

of  Wetherden,  Pedigree 

315 

Rushbrook  Arms 

243 

99 

Arms  and  Quarterings 

..  281,  311 

„  John,  Ipswich,  1514,  Will  . . 

245 

99 

Clere,  1695,  Will 

319 

„  Parish  Registers  .  . . 

243 

99 

Francis,  1759,  Will 

315 

„  Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.,  1560  . . 

254 

99 

George,  1686,  Will 

318 

„  Sir  William,  1360,  Fine  . . 

243 

99 

Halford,  Pedigree,  1681 

302 

,,  Sir  William,  Will 

244 

,, 

Harrison,  c.  P.  Eliz.,  B.  and  A. 

298 

99 

Jane,  1738,  Will 

296 

99 

Joan,  1545,  Will 

286 

99 

John,  Bacton,  1559,  Inq.  . . 

286 

Sharpe,  Joan,  1563-1597 

. .  370,  381 

99 

John,  Bacton,  1587,  Inq.  . . 

289 

Sheene,  Edward,  1657,  Will 

251 

99 

John,  Thorndon,  1607,  Inq. 

290 

„  Nicholas,  1652,  Will 

217 

99 

John,  Thomdon,  1611,  Inq. 

291 

„  Sarah,  1653,  Will  . . 

217 

99 

John,  1655,  Will 

295 

Shelton,  Maurice,  1680,  Will 

231 

99 

John,  Whelnetham,  1624,  Will 

399 

,,  Pedigree 

240 

99 

Knights’  Services,  1539 

297 

Sibbes,  Robert,  1581,  Will  . . 

386 

99 

Letter  from  the  King,  1663 

313 

„  Administrations,  1581-4 

369 

99 

Martha,  1728,  WiU 

319 

Smith,  alias  Hovell,  of  Surrey 

49-53 

99 

Monumental  Inscriptions  . . 

320 

„  Arms,  etc.,  Harl.  MS.,  1561 

53 

99 

Old  Newton  Descents 

305 

,,  Arthur,  1558,  Will  . . 

62 

99 

Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.,  1820  . . 

303 

,,  Elizabeth,  1623,  Will 

50 

99 

Pedigree,  Le  Neve’s  Knights 

303 

,,  Pedigree 

53 

99 

Pedigree,  Norfolk  Visit.,  1664 

304 

„  Robert,  London,  Will 

49 

99 

Pedigree,  Suffolk  Visit.,  1664 

304 

Smith  (otherwise  Hovell)  : — 

99 

Peter,  Inq.  p.m.,  1637 

294 

„  Anne,  Ashfield,  1759,  Will 

8 

99 

Peter,  1636,  WiU 

293 

,,  Arms  in  Ashfield  Church 

1 

99 

c.  Pretyman,  1665 

300 

„  Badwell  lands  sold,  1575 

16 

99 

Rachel,  1626,  Will 

319 

„  Brent  Eleigh  Manor  sold 

17 

99 

Robert,  1650,  Will 

295 

„  Christian,  1557,  Will 

15 

99 

Royal  Descents 

. .  316,  317 

„  c.  Cooke,  1565,  Chan.  Proc. 

15 

99 

Sir  John,  1638,  Will 

294 

,,  John,  Badwell,  1553,  Will 

14 

99 

Sir  John,  1638,  M.I. 

320 

„  John,  Badwell,  Inq.  p.m. 

15 

99 

Sir  John,  1639,  Inq. 

294 

,,  John  and  Helen,  Fines,  etc. 

16,  17,  18 

99 

Thomas,  Bacton,  1543,  Will 

285 

„  John  and  Julian,  Fines,  etc.  . . 

17,  20,  21,  52 

99 

Thomas,  Newton,  1566,  Will 

288 

„  John,  Brent  Eleigh,  1600,  Will  . . 

18 

99 

Thomas,  Newton,  1567,  Inq. 

289 

„  John,  Fellow  of  Eton 

. .  61,  403 

99 

Thomas,  Bacton,  1600,  Will 

318 

„  John,  Provost  of  Kang’s,  M.I.  . . 

. .  51,  52 

99 

Thomas,  Bacton,  1601,  Inq. 

290 

„  John,  Hunston,  1603 

52 

99 

Thomas,  Newton,  1617,  Inq. 

291 

„  Langham  Registers,  etc. 

. .  20,  21 

99 

Thomas  Bacton,  1621,  Inq. 

292 

„  and  Masham,  1575,  Fine 

17 

99 

Tomline,  Bishop 

307 

„  Robert,  Ashfield,  1733,  Will  . . 

7 

99 

Vemey,  Pedigree,  1681 

302 

„  and  Sturges,  1588,  Fine 

17 

99 

William,  1393,  Charter 

282 

,,  Thomas,  Ashfield,  1604,  Will 

49 

99 

William,  1475,  Will 

283 

„  William,  Ashfield,  1540,  Will  . . 

. '.  14,  25 

99 

William,  1541,  Will  and  Inq. 

284 

„  William,  Ashfield,  1545,  Will  . . 

11 

99 

William,  1594,  Will 

289 

Sorrell  of  Great  Henney  . . 

333 

99 

William,  1617,  Inq.  p.m.  . . 

292 

Sparhawk,  John,  1655,  Will 

124 

Stanton,  Nicholas,  1648,  Will 

123 

Stubbing,  see  Stubbin. 

Stubbin  of  Naughton 

337-351,  406 

Quarles-Partridge  Marriage  . . 

167 

„  Amy,  Raydon,  1763,  Will,  etc. 

. .  345,  406 

•  * 

„  Arms 

337 

,,  Bobulo  Manor 

339,  341,  342,  347 

„  Bumpsted  Hall  Manor 

. .  341,  344 

Rattleaden, 

Joan  de,  1363  . . 

. .  72,  73 

„  Cambridge  Branch 

. .  337,  347 

Rickes,  als.  Folkes,  Anne,  Will 

107 

„  Cowling  Branch,  Pedigree 

350 

Richardson 

Judith,  1659,  Will 

125 

„  Descent  from  Brand 

406 

INDEX. 


Stubbin,  Edmund,  Naughton,  1634,  Will 
„  Elizabeth,  Higham,  1771,  Will 

„  Essex  Manors 

„  Joan,  Cottenham,  Will 

„  John,  Mosses,  Will  and  Inq.  p.m. 

„  John,  Bumpstead,  Will 

„  John,  Raydon,  1757 

„  John,  Raydon,  1769 

„  Jonathan,  1661,  Will 

„  Josiah,  1686,  Will  ' 

„  Pedigree,  Bumpsted 

„  Pedigree,  Naughton 

„  Pedigree,  Cowling 

„  Portraits  in  Suffolk 

„  Robert,  Haverhill,  1524,  Will 

„  Royal  Descent 

„  Spelling  of  the  name 

,,  William,  1491,  Will 

„  William,  1532,  Will 

„  William,  Haverhill,  etc..  Will 

„  William,  Stansfield,  Will 

Style,  Humphrey,  1718,  Will 
Suckling  of  Baksham 

„  Ahce,  1632,  Will.. 

„  Anne,  Barsham,  Will 

„  Arms 

„  Barsham  Manor,  1613 

„  Barsham  and  Woodton,  Will 

„  Charles,  1644,  Will 

,,  Christian,  1608,  Will 

„  Denzil,  1744,  Will 

„  Dorothy,  1747,  Will 

„  Early  Suffolk  Wills 

„  Edmund,  D.D.,  1628,  Will 

„  Elizabeth,  Shipmeadow,  1755 

„  Elizabeth,  Southwold,  1558 

,,  Estawe,  or  Estowe,  alias  of 

„  Henry,  1456,  Will 

„  Horace,  1751,  M.I. 

,,  Inscriptions  at  Barsham 

„  Inscription  at  Pangbourne 

„  Jermyn  Descent 

„  John,  Framsden,  1461,  Will 

„  John,  Westleton,  1474,  Will 

„  John,  D.D.,  1506,  Will 

,,  John,  Woodton,  1554,  Will 

,,  Kempe  Descent  . . 

„•  Lionel,  1665,  Will 

„  Manclerk’s  “Disposition” 

„  Mary,  Barsham,  1671,  Will 

„  Maurice,  D.D.,  1727,  Will 

„  Maurice,  Captain,  Will 

„  Nelson’s  Descent  from 

„  Nicholas,  1519,  Will 

„  Pedigree  (Barsham) 

„  Pedigree  (Woodton) 

,,  Pedigree,  Candler  MSS. 

„  Pedigree,  Coll,  of  Arms 

„  Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.,  1552 

„  Portraits 

„  Richard,  1525,  Will 

,,  Richard,  1551,  Will 


PAGE. 

342 

346 

341 

347 

340 

341 

344 

345 

343 

344 

348 

349,  350 

350 

406 

338 

351 

406 

337 

339 

339 

342 

37 

177- 

194,  406 

191 

199 

17L 

200,  232 

189 

184-199 

193 

186 

197 

197 

177-183 

90 

198 

183 

177,  185 

178 

201 

201,  205 

189 

256 

179 

179 

179 

185 

234 

193 

185 

194 

196 

198 

206 

180 

203-206 

202 

200 

201 

200 

206 

181 

184 

415 

PAGE. 

;,  Robert,  1681,  Will 

195 

Robert,  1707,  Will 

195 

Rose  Hall  Manor 

189,  195,  200 

Royal  Descents 

. .  207,  241 

Shelton  Marriage 

232,  237,  240 

Sir  John,  the  Elder,  1569,  Baptism 

406 

Sir  John,  1626,  Wifi 

167 

Sir  John,  the  Cavalier 

. .  189,  192 

Southwold,  Wills,  etc. 

178,  181,  183 

Thomas,  1477,  Will 

178 

William,  1547,  Will 

181 

William,  1798,  M.I. 

205 

Lord,  Suffolk  Ancestry 

120 

i  of  Bury,  Hovell  Descent 

95 

Tepshefe,  William,  Will,  etc.  . .  . .  20,  403 

Throgmorton  Pedigree,  1623,  Excerpt  from  . .  148 

Torkington,  Mary,  1695,  Will  . .  . .  8 

Tuddenham,  Sir  John  de,  1385  . .  . .  1  V 


Ventriss,  Sir  Peyton,  1691,  Will  . .  . .  130 

Vesey  Pedigree,  Essex  Visit.,  1664  . .  . .  101 

„  Thomas,  1661,  Will  . .  . .  . .  91 

Virginia,  John  Barber  of,  c.  1660  . .  . .  252 

,,  Rd.  Kempe’s,  Will,  1649  . .  . .  230 

„  William  and  Mary  College  . .  . .  32 


Wake,  Archbishop,  1751,  Will  . .  . .  32 

Washington,  William,  of  Essex,  1563  . .  . .  152 

Westhorpe,  Henry,  1599,  Will  . .  . .  89 

Whiting  of  Hadleigh  . .  . .  121-135,  404 

„  Arms,  1664  . .  . .  . .  121 

,,  Henry,  1685,  Will  . .  . .  129 

„  Inscription,  Ipswich,  1685  . .  . .  132 

„  John,  1637,  Will  . .  . .  121 

„  John,  1645,  Will  . .  . .  . .  122 

,,  John,  Groton,  1680,  Will  . .  . .  128 

,,  Joseph,  1747,  Will  . .  . .  132 

,,  Pedigrees,  Candler  MS.  . .  . .  133 

„  Pedigree  . .  . .  . .  134 

„  Saracen’s  Head  in  Newton  . .  121,  122,  123 

„  Thomas,  1682,  Will  . .  . .  129 

Whyter,  John,  Essex,  1563,  Will  . .  . .  152 

Willows,  Edward,  1576,  Will  . .  . .  88 

,,  Thomas,  1568,  Inq.  p.m.  . .  . .  85 

WiUys  Pedigree  . .  . .  ...  105 

„  Thomas,  1625,  Will  . .  . .  . .  90 

Wingfield,  Anthony,  1596,  Will  . .  . .  157 

„  Thomas,  1575,  Will  . .  . .  157 

Wiseman  Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.  1137,  Excerpt  ..  220 

„  Robert,  1628,  Will  . .  . .  216 

„  Royal  Descent  . .  . .  . .  208 

Woodgate,  c.  Goodwin,  1599,  Chan.  Proc.  . .  139 

„  Pedigree  . .  . .  . .  152 

„  c.  Shelley,  1563,  Chan.  Proc.  . .  152 

„  Stephen,  1598,  Will  . .  . .  132 

Wyverstone  Manor,  1390,  Fine  . .  . .  71 


416 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


INDEX  NOMINUM. 

4 


Aaron,  fil.  Abraham,  59 
Abdy,  202 
Abell,  366,  378,  379 
Abergaveny,  Ld.,  207 
Abbott,  92,  93 
Acre,  Joan  of,  268 
Acton,  110,  172,  189,  205 
Adcock,  237 
Adderley,  313 
Adney,  170,  405 
Adams,  104,  165,  169,  312, 
396,  397,  398,  400 
Agar,  206,  222,  401 
Ainger,  331 

Alabaster,  321,  323,  324,  330, 
331,  333 
Aldham,  2 
Alderman,  169 
Albini  de,  173 
Albermarle,  Earl  of,  175 
Aldrich,  194,  203,  336 
Aldred,  276,  280 
Aid  is,  152 
Aldryng,  336 
Alexander,  217,  240,  315 
Alefounder,  125,  152,  169 
Alford,  231 
Alden,  383 
Algar,  319,  383 
Aleyne,  154,  175,  338,  336 
Alington,  87,  242,  316,  371, 
372 

Allder,  382 

Allen,  41,  44,  51,  278,  341, 
348,  391 
Almott,  101 

Alston,  6,  149,  166,  310,  319, 
405 

Ames,  9,  12 
Amias,  101,  404 
Amadroz,  205 
Amler,  308 
Amys,  399 
Anderson,  172 
Andrews,  47,  48,  92,  103, 
126,  127,  249,  359 
Anguish,  30,  31 
Anson,  120 
Ansell,  168,  169 
Antweke,  180 
An  tel,  272 

Appleton,  9,  123,  240,  390 
Applewhite,  218 
Appleyard,  9,  13,  234,  236 
Applethwait,  297 
Apthorpe,  308 
Archdale,  142 
Archer,  343,  202 
Armiger,  217,  221,  310,  318 
Armstrong,  47 


I  Armitage,  120 
Arundel,  E.  of,  195,  207 
Armyne,  312 
Arnold,  176 
Arnald,  282 
Arteys,  156 
Artweke,  180 
Arthur,  204 

Artois,  Count,  175,  241,  317 
Ashborne,  150 
Ashford,  102,  105 
Ashfield,  247,  255,  292 
Ashdon,  337 
Ashton,  37,  120 
|  Aslott,  387 
'  Aspale  de,  74 
Aspin,  172,  174,  406 
Astley,  174 

Asty,  36,  53,  64,  72,  166,  174 

Athill,  248,  302 

Atherold,  259,  266,  262 

Athow,  174 

Atkine,  195 

Atkinson,  28,  37 

Athouse,  157 

Atte  Cros,  282 

Attlebridge  de,  73,  75 

Audley,  246 

Audley,  Ld.,  207 

Auger,  124,  138,  369,  379,  380 

Augold,  379,  380 

Aunger,  86 

Austin,  116 

Auston,  318 

Avelers  de,  79 


Babyngton,  244 
Bacstere  le,  64 
Back,  27,  37 

Bacon,  9,  15,  21,  48,  101,  124, 
125,  135,  146,  169,  200,  203, 
226,  227,  234,  236,  239,  255, 
259,  260,  265,  270,  366 
Badby,  255 
Badelingham,  64 
Baffin,  124 
Bagshaw,  318 
Bagwell,  174 
Bailie,  Baile,  142 
Baker,  3,  4,  9,  12,  13,  26,  297 
Bakerton  de,  57,  63 
Bakon,  65,  366 
Balam,  326 
Baldook,  231 
Baldwin,  Abbot,  65,  76 
Bale,  401 
Ball,  9,  13 


Ballard,  17,  85,  311 
Ballely,  149 
Balles,  151,  167,  187 
Bancroft,  32 
Bannyng,  288,  305 
Bantoft,  332 

Barber,  154,  205,  252,  255, 
296,  365 

Bard  well,  160,  286 
Bardolph,  225 
Baring,  120 

Barker,  48,  138,  140,  141,  144, 
145,  149,  151,  152,  160,  221, 
223,  323,  367,  380 
Barker,  ala.  Chapman,  140 
Barlee,  131  * 

Barlow,  184 
Barnard,  18,  94 
Barnard,  ols.  Hiller,  370 
Barne,  160 

Barnes,  4.  9,  10,  13,  35,  36, 
41,  42,  43,  44 

Barrett,  178,  185,  189,  191, 
192,  193,  202,  336 
Barron,  204,  235,  299,  300, 
304,  307,  310,  406 
Barrow,  208,  229,  240,  242, 
232 

Barsham,  de  36,  151,  260 
Bartlett,  37 
Barry,  40 

Barwick,  189,  200,  201,  202, 
203 

Base,  14,  28,  217 
Bassetts,  47 
Bassum,  295 
Bassingborne,  10,  11 
Bassano,  50,  51,  53,  305 
Bates,  222 

Bateman,  42,  43,  44,  184,  185 
Batley,  228,  358 
Batt,  151 

Bavent  de,  66,  74 
Bavntz,  190 

Baxter,  186,  308,  310,  319 
Bayeard,  107 
Bayfield,  92 
Bayliff,  244,  254  • 

Bayley,  169,  170,  234,  331 
Beale,  104 
Bealys,  182 
Bealknap,  69 
Beaman,  171,  173 
Beamys,  248 
Beane,  151 
Beare,  38,  39,  40 
Beauchamp,  41,  43,  44,  173, 
207 

Beauchamp,  Ld.,  316 
Beaumond,  129 


Beaumont,  134,  171,  313 
Beaumont,  Ld.,  175,  241 
Becker,  104 
Beckett,  168 
Beddell,  300 
Bedell,  286 

Bedingfield,  91,  101,  103,  203, 
219,  223,  262,  263,  265 
Bedon,  156 
Beere,  12 
Beevor,  267 
Beggere,  61 
Beke,  173 
Bekyngham  de,  80 
Bell,  174,  175,  267,  271,  277, 
339,  366,  372 
Bellesly,  55 
Bellet,  240 
Bendall,  399 
Benedict,  211 
Benger,  46,  48 
Benharn,  276 
Benn,  275 
Benne,  142 

Bennett,  33,  149,  273,  275, 
280,  325,  376 
Benstede,  226 
Benton,  107,  336 
Bentley,  107 
Benyon,  232,  236 
Bereford,  226 
Berenger,  241 
Berkeley,  230 
Bernard,  254,  351 
Berners,  203,  241 
Berney,  112,  196,  197,  198, 
203,  204,  208,  242 
Berte,  282 
Beton,  72,  148,  149 
Betenson,  112 

Betts,  329,  331,  366,  367,  381 

Bevan,  169,  170 

Bevir,  104 

Bewes,  361 

Beymont,  321 

Bidon,  61 

Bidwell,  362 

Bigland,  201 

Bigot,  237,  268 

Bird,  221,  271 

Birkbeck,  112 

Bishop,  295,  306,  335,  336 

Blackborne,  6,  9,  13 

Blackwell,  237 

Blage,  Blagg,  252,  255,  257 

Blair,  361 

Blanchard,  265 

Blanche ville  de,  79 

Blanchflower,  104 

Blancminster  de,  173 


INDEX  NOMINUM 


417 


Blatchford,  256 
Blatt,  93,  94,  103 
Blenerhasset,  191,  210,  236 
Blewitt,  330,  333 
Blofeld,  176,  362 
Blogate  de,  67 

Blois,  73,  121,  208,  233,  234, 
237 

Blomfield,  9,  13,  101,  115, 
127,  129,  130,  134,  137,  176, 
270,  278,  310,  327,  326,  332, 
363,  364,  375,  376,  377,  380, 
382 

Blondell,  355 
Blondevil,  101 
Bloome,  290 
Bloss,  169,  311,  405 
Blount,  176 
Blowers,  151 
Blunt,  48,  222 
Blyth,  169,  405 
Boarnes,  43 

Bogas,  322,  323,  331,  333,  334 
Boliun,  156,  207,  241,  317 
Bokenham,  174,  240 
Boldero,  252,  309,  318 
Boleyn,  207,  208,  240 
Bollard,  111,  113 
Bolle,  79 

Bolton,  206,  208,  224,  242, 
254,  256,  355 
Bond,  255 
Bones,  169 
Bon  vile,  Ld.,  317 
Booth,  301 
Boothby,  120 
Booton,  107 
Booty,  96,  97,  103,  104 
Bordesawe  de,  69 
Borrett,  4,  9,  13 
Borrowe,  138,  139 
Borough,  136 
Bosanquet,  95 
Boston,  324,  388 
Boswell,  25,  107 
Boteler,  240 
Botwright,  4 
Boughe,  349 
Boulton,  43,  220 
Bounce,  282 
Bourchier,  241,  303,  312 
Bourne,  110,  112,  113,  119, 
202 

Bousell,  382 
Bouverie,  222 
Bowers,  198,  334 
Bowie,  367,  370 
Bowtell,  267 
Bowyer,  202 
Boxe,  368 
Boys,  280 

Bozon,  174,  175,  176,  243,  254 
Bracey,  267 
Bradford,  Ld.,  308,  316 
Bradley,  381 
Bradshaw,  112 
Bradstreet,  168,  369,  373, 
378,  379,  380 
Brage,  407 
Braham,  55 

Brampton,  53,  263,  265,  402 
Brames,  310 


Brancaster  de,  47 
Brand,  120,  233,  237,  346, 
349,  407 
Brandon,  316 
Breame,  377 
Brege,  340 
Brend,  372,  381 
Brents,  40 

Bresete,  363,  364,  379 
Brett,  112 
Brewes,  240,  325 
Brewster,  315 
Brice,  361,  362 
Bridges,  278 

Bridgeman,  86,  89,  97,  109, 

111,  113,  116,  308,  316 
Bridport,  Viscount,  206 
Briseworth  de,  74,  76,  78 
Britiffe,  120 
Broadripp,  33 
Broadstred,  378 
Broghill,  Ld.,  38 
Broke,  26,  236,  332 
Bromton  de,  64,  65 
Brond,  330,  333 
Bronnesmyth,  170,  391,  400 
Brooke,  26,  47,  166,  205,  265, 

304,  315,  357 
Brooman,  267 
Broome,  166 
Brouncker,  Ld.,  250,  255 
Brow  (?  Crow),  378 
Brown,  6,  22,  38,  39,  40.  96, 

112,  126,  169,  191,  205,  206, 
208,  234,  237,  241,  242,  256, 
270,  286,  294,  295,  299, 
303,  309,  311,  312,  372,  373, 
380,  383 

Browning,  9,  122,  167,  229, 
356,  360 

Brownrigg,  300,  333 

Brownson,  267 

Bruce  (Brewes),  325 

Bruis  le,  55 

Brundish,  8,  25,  296 

Brunning,  6,  13,  165 

Brunskill,  333 

Bruty,  142 

Bryan,  47,  386 

Bryant,  115,  116,  119 

Brygge,  282 

Brykeloth,  181 

Brynglove,  401 

Brynglow,  396,  397,  400,  401 

Brynkoley,  396 

Brvuse,  156 

Buck,  367 

Buckenham,  358,  360 
Buckingham,  D.  of,  164 
Buckinghamshire,  E.  of,  120 
Bugge,  288,  311,  327,  349 
Buggin,  313 
Bukke,  366 
Bullen,  286 
Buller,  381 
Bullock,  174,  217 
Bulwer,  36,  38 
Bures,  238.  240,  242,  243, 
252,  256,  351 
Burges,  380 
Burgh  de,  317 
Burgess,  127,  309 


Burgon,  243,  254,  255 
Burguin,  304 
Burkett,  329 
Burleigh,  Ld.,  242, 

Burtz,  253.  256 
Burman,  17,  203 
Burnam,  17 
Burnard,  237 
Burnton  de,  74,  81 
Burrard,  222 

Burrell,  96,  98,  99,  103,  124, 
277,  358,  382 

Burrough,  92,  93,  233,  237, 
296,  307,  332,  353,  380 
Burrow,  279 

Burton,  303,  310,  312,  315 
Burwell,  242 
Bury,  372,  373,  381 
Busfield,  317 
Bushell,  361,  362 
Butler,  147,  148,  149,  195, 
207,  240 
Butterham,  221 
Butvillain,  225,  226,  235,  236 
Button,  378 
Buxton,  227,  236 
Byng,  28 
Byrd,  271,  277 
Byron,  317 

Bysshe,  11,  35,  121,  155,  159, 
352 


Cabeck,  5 
Cage,  52,  151,  370 
Cake,  283,  305 
Calthorpe,  158,  174,  184 
Cambridge  de,  68 
Camoys,  171,  173 
Campbell,  176 
Candler,  121,  164,  166 
Canham,  112,  237 
Cannon,  381 
Canon,  160 
Cantebrigg  de,  67 
Capel,  101,  216,  220,  221 
Capron,  329,  333 
Card,  111 

Cardinall,  138,  200,  201,  202, 
203 

Carew,  148,  149,  151 
Carew,  Lady,  145 
Carey,  207,  208,  215,  218, 
219,  221 

Carleton,  Lady,  109 
Carleton,  216,  217,  218 
Carr,  333 

Carrick,  E.  of,  282,  313 

Carrow,  116 

Carter,  93,  94,  98,  103 

Carter,  als.  Morgan,  278 

Carthew,  120,  360,  361,  362 

Cartwright,  145 

Caryl,  317 

Casborne,  8,  119 

Castell,  203 

Castleton,  21,  117,  291 

Castile,  K.  of,  207,  241,  268 

Catling,  145 

Catlyn,  143 

Caulfield,  38 


Cave,  206,  222 
Cavendish,  243 
Cavenham,  402 
Cawlton,  216 
Cawood,  240 
Cecil,  242 
Celestre,  68 
Challis,  111,  112 
Chamber,  244 

Chamberlain,  12,  57,  77,  149, 
247 

Champernoun,  317 
Champneys,  48 
Chantry,  168 
Chapell,  180,  32 
Chapman,  194,  323,  344 
Chapman,  als.  Barker,  25 
Chapman,  als.  Felton.  25 
Chaplyn,  101,  103,  125,  127, 

135,  139,  t/o z 

Charnelyn,  79 
Chatterton,  47 

Cha worth,  174,  175,  241,  317 
Chebehal  de,  79 
Cheeseman,  204 
Cheke,  179 

Chenerie,  97,  103,  116,  119 
Cheney,  278,  317,  364 
Cherche  le,  265 
Cheslyn,  41,  42,  44 
Chevallier,  264,  266,  268 
Chichley,  30,  33,  35,  36,  10 
Child,  7 

Chilton,  34,  204 
Chisnall,  168 
Chittock,  217,  218 
Chought,  234 
Churchill,  33,  195,  222 
Churchman,  240 
Cil’  d’Oillie  47 
Civill,  195 

Clagett,  189,  194,  202 
dampen,  334 
Clapthorne,  331,  332,  407 
Clare,  de,  207,  208,  241,  268 
Clarence,  D.  of,  317 
Clarke,  41,  42,  87,  110,  112, 
139,  140,  152,  159,  160,  168, 
174,  180,  204,  252,  295,  296, 
310,  318,  319,  323,  330,  331, 
332,  333,  343,  346,349,  355, 
*lf>7  4.07 

Claxton,  156,  169,  372,  381, 
238,  239,  240 
Clayton,  111,  113 
Clements,  38,  350 
Clemson,  361 

Clench,  92,  101,  103,  228, 
290,  304,  310,  311,  404 
Clerbeck,  387,  393,  394,  396, 
400 

Clerk,  66,  226,  311 
Clere,  210,  213,  240 
Cleves,  Anne  of,  305 
Cleye,  154 

Clifford,  227,  235,  236,  317 
Clodd,  266 

Clopton,  127,  133,  154,  255, 
389 

Clover,  315 
Clyntch,  290 
Coates,  204 

3  D 


418 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Cobbe,  28,  36,  37 
Cobbes,  287  •  ■ 

Cobble,  144 
Cob  bold,  266,  267 
Cobham,  1,  60,  241,  351 
Cock,  136,  158,  159,  160, 
191,  193,  200,  203,  371,  381 
Cocksedge,  97,  151,  296,  371 
Coddon,  235 
Coe,  334 
Coell,  256,  258 
Cogge,  402 

Coke,  25,  175,  234,  257 
Cokefield,  1 
Cokeram,  235,  237 
Coke,  188 
Cokshed,  386 
Colby,  2,  162,  200 
Coldham,  97 

Cole,  138,  139,  151,  253,  266, 
267,  343.  349 
Coleman,  380 
Coleshill,  de,  44 
Collen,  151,  347,  348 
Collign,  151 
Collymore,  48 

Colman,  17,  237,  279,  286, 
346 

Colville,  306 
Comyn.  175 
Corners,  269,  328,  332 
Conquest,  378 
Constable,  74 
Coooke,  370 

Cooke,  10,  14,  15,  16,  18, 
20,  21,  28,  36,  37,  97,  110, 


169, 

151, 

174, 

237, 

244, 

274, 

297, 

313, 

338, 

345, 

348, 

349, 

350, 

363, 

366, 

370,  : 

378,  380 

Coolidg' 

e,  151 

Cooper, 

16, 

121, 

122, 

123, 

130,  133,  134,  194,  345 
Coote,  154 

Copinger,  246,  255,  366 
Copping,  15,  23,  171,-  192 
Copsey,  151 
Copuldyke,  292 
Copyn,  387,  400 
Corbett,  231,  236,  191 
Cordall,  188.  394 
Cordell,  232,  246,  341 
Cordwell,  96 

Cornwallis,  208,  210,  240, 

242,  252,  265,  268,  287,  351 
Cossens,  4 
Coston,  388 

Cotton,  110,  227,  264,  265, 
269,  279,  315,  368 
Cottyes,  124 
Coulson,  36,  28 
Cousens,  4,  9,  13 
Courtenay,  317 
Courthorpe,  362 
Covile,  Coveil,  31,  252 
Cowper,  83,  170,  367,  379, 
391,  400 
Cox,  127,  176 
Cracknel,  90 

Crane,  124,  125,  127,  133, 
134,  135,  242,  246,  252, 
255,  309 


Cranfield,  189,  200,  202 

Craske,  319 

Cratfield,  154 

Crawley,  276,  279 

Cream,  267,  397,  401 

Creeme,  397,  400,  401 

Creirefes,  32,  33 

Creke,  113 

Cremer,  28,  37 

Cremer,  als.  Scryme,  28,  37 

Cresseher,  174,  175 

Cressingham,  63 

Creting  de,  79 

Crick,  323 

Criketot,  62 

Crispe,  169,  210,  263,  360 
Crispin,  47 
Critoft,  382 

Crochon,  170,  388,  389,  .390, 
393,  394,  400 
Croft,  276 

Croftes,  194,  255,  256,  269, 
277,  361 

Cropley,  110,  120,  311 
Croppyng,  64,  65 
Cross,  1,  9,  12,  272,  366 
Crouchback,  241 
Crowe,  174,  176,  343,  368, 
380,  401 
Crulle,  71,  75,  76 
Cubald,  79 
Cuckoe,  164,  400 
Cuddon,  237,  315,  318,  319 
Culham,  276 
Cullurn,  280 
Cullyer,  202 
Cunnold,  290 
Curson,  326 
Curteys,  276,  280 
Curtis.  92,  93,  103,  220,  221, 
361,  362 
Cust,  112 
Cuthbert,  344 
Cutler,  19,  224,  307,  333 


Dacre,  317 

Dade,  15,  36,  169,  237,  234, 
264,  265,  268 
Daimond,  306 
Dains,  319 
Dalgetty,  206,  222 
Dallynges,  226 
Dalton,  97,  161,  256,  258 
Dameron,  101,  353,  379,  360 
Danby,  47,  72 
Dandy,  239,  240 
Dane,  225 
Daniel,  331,  361,  394 
Dannay,  112 
Danvers,  46,  47,  48 
Darby,  180,  235,  236,  264, 
266,  279 
Darcy,  Ld.,  207 
Darrell,  245,  254 
Davenport,  302 
Davers,  46,  255 
Davis,  151,  189,  193,  194, 
202 

Davy,  43,  99,  176,  211,  251, 
336,  363 


Dawbridge,  114 

Dawkins,  28 

Dawson,  318 

Dawtrey,  149 

Day,  119,  167,  195,  405 

Daynes,  127,  135,  192,  376 

Deacon,  362 

Deane,  124 

Debeney,  16,  36,  37 

De  Berdt,  104 

De  Clare,  351, 

De  Horne,  104 
De  la  Beech,  47 
De  la  Hay,  10,  28,  35,  36 
Delamare,  Ld.,  301 
Dela  piend,  253,  256 
Dell,  151 
Denham,  178 
Dennis,  120 

Denney,  276,  279,  290,  292 
Dent,  96,  103 
Denton,  128,  135 
Derby,  E.  of,  247,  255,  317 
D'erehangh,  138,  139,  140,  152 
Dereslie,  119,  120 
Dereham,  279 
Dering,  10,  35,  36 
Despencer,  208,  241,  268,  351 
Dethick,  29,  211 
Devereux,  163,  164,  376,  378 
Deverris,  370 
Devon,  E.  of,  317 
Dewes,  205,  255,  260 
Dey,  15,  388 
Deyes,  400 

Dickenson,  110,  112,  374, 

375,  381 
Dickeman,  141 
Dighton,  255 
Dillon,  47,  48,  240 
D’lmond,  306 
Dines,  169 
Disney,  47 
Dister,  333 
Dobbins,  39 
Dobbity,  5 
Dobsee,  349,  351 
Docker,  280 
Doggett,  380 
Dolman,  174,  298,  299 
Doole,  309 
Dormour,  65,  66 
Dorset,  E.  of,  200 
Doughty,  232 
Dove,  132,  295,  311 
Dover,  Ld.,  112,  255 
Dover,  375 
Dowdeswell,  294,  295 
Dowe,  264,  265 
Dowsing,  361,  356,  360,  361 
Downe,  Vt.,  112 
Dowty,  250 
Doyle,  46 

Doyley,  46,  47,  48,  158,  203, 
230 

Drack,  107 
Drake,  107 
Drane,  219 
Draper,  266 
Drayles,  391 
Driver,  360 
Drummond,  316 


Drury,  154,  173,  200,  203,. 
227,  228,  235,  237,  241,  244, 
253,  254,  256,  261,  289, 
303,  312,  331,  332,  351 
Dry  wood,  127 
Duck,  246,  255,  332,  388 
Duffen,  28 

Duke,  150,  225,  236,  240 
Duncombe,  378 
Du  neon,  306 
Dunham,  307 
Dunkin,  298 
Dunster,  278 
Durham,  350 
Dusgate,  187,  203 
Dutton,  317 
Dyer,  22 
Dykes,  221,  222 
Dymond,  293,  320 
Dymock,  176 


Eagle,  402 
Eames,  266,  268 
Easthall,  202,  185 
Ebden,  360,  361 
Eccleston,  395 
Edelston,  383 
Eden,  374,  377,  380 
Edgar,  354,  359,  360,  362 
Edgecumb,  267,  317 
Edward  I,  8,  207,  208,  268, 
317,  351 
Edward  II.  317 
Edward  III,  175,  317 
Edward  IV,  316,  207 
Edward  (Black  Prince),  175 
Edwardes,  50,  232,  334,  358 
Egerton,  298 
Egmore,  367 
Eist,  392 
Eiville,  de,  173 
Elder,  402 
Elias,  Bishop,  59 
Elizabeth,  Queen,  2,  207 
Elizabeth,  Princess,  299 
Eleanor  of  Provence,  175 
Elliott,  382 
Ellis,  169,  319,  265 
Ellison,  104 
Elliston,  164,  327,  331 
Elmburge,  93 
Elmy,  315 

Elsden,  90,  91,  103,  168 
Elwes,  112 
Elwill,  37 
Elwold,  151 
Engelfield,  de,  1,  60 
Engennour,  le,  64 
English,  168 
Ennoyse,  le,  63 
Ernie v,  47,  213 
Estali,  177 

Estawe,  Esthawe,  177,  178i 
184,  185,  202 
Eswell,  191 
Evan,  26 
Evans,  405,  170 
Evelyn,  102,  105,  166,  294, 
300,  312 


INDEX  NOMINUM 


419 


Everard,  11,  94,  112,  155 
Everitt,  356,  360,  383 
Exeter,  E.  of,  96,  248 
Eye,  de,  78 

Eyre,  205,  208,  222,  277,  318 


Fabian,  166 
Facon,  322 
Faircloth,  109,  111 
Fairclough,  113,  132 
Fairfax,  166 
Fairly,  27 
Fane,  149 
Fannell,  55 
Farmer,  39,  40 
Farmor,  238 
Farnaby,  258 
Farr,  205,  267 
Farrar,  190,  191,  335 
Farrington,  312 
Farpour,  202 
Farrow,  380 
Fastolf,  175 
Fawether,  235,  236 
Felgate,  315,  344 
Feltham,  1 27 
Felton,  352 
Fen,  365 

Fenne,  13,  21,  285,  286,  305, 
350,  365 
Fenys,  48 
Fermor,  30,  393 
Fermy,  191 

Ferneley,  10,  24,  27,  35,  36, 
239,  240 
Ferror,  15 
Fetch,  306 
Fetiplace,  269 
Fiennes,  47 
Filby,  217,  218,  221 
Finch,  316 
Fincham,  180 

Fisher,  102,  105,  133,  134, 
172,  184,  185,  377,  380 
Fiske,  10,  27,  35,  36,  149, 
150,  266,  267,  268 
Fitch,  104,  239,  299,  300,  306 
340,  341 
Fitling,  184 

Fitz  Alan,  8,  166,  241,  268, 
317 

Fitz  Count,  47 
Fitz  Herlewyn,  173 
Fitz  Hugh,  175 
Fitz  Osbert,  65 
Fitz  Ralph,  56,  173 
Fitz  Walter,  48,  56 
Fitz  William,  65,  66,  75,  76, 
174,  175,  242 
Flacke,  348 
Flemming,  193,  317 
Flecheshehe,  79 
Fletcher,  362 
Flower,  1 
Foeard,  166 
Foiston,  111,  113 
Foley,  206,  221 
Folgate,  344 
Folkard,  4 


Folkes,  31,  32,  33,  36,  85, 
86,  91,  103,  105,  116,  119, 
258 

Folser,  382,  383 
Fones,  128,  332 
Fontaine,  de  la,  304 
Foolkes,  89 
Foorde,  10 
Foote,  125 
Fooxe,  86 

Ford,  20,  24,  33,  35,  36,  37 
Forman,  45,  47 
Forth,  138,  151,  152,  277 
Foster,  194,  267 
Foulsham,  125,  127,  135 
Fowle,  151,  280 
Fowler,  6,  13,  331 
Fowkes,  35,  39 
Fox,  85,  86,  102,  105,  204, 
355,  356,  357,  360 
Foyster,  103,  104 
Framingham,  204 
France,  K.  of,  207 
Franceys,  259,  261,  265 
Fraunces,  392 
Freelove,  101 
Freeman,  266,  386 
Fremantle,  314,  318 
French,  204 
Frend,  128 

Frere,  146,  296,  307,  309, 
315,  318,  319 
Fressingfield,  de,  80 
Freston,  150 
Friar,  184,  185 
Frost,  36,  50,  402 
Frver,  202 
Fryett,  359 
Fugal,  46 
Fulcher,  382 
Fulke,  38 

Fuller,  180,  219,  306,  380 
Fulmerstone,  192,  202,  211 
Furmage,  283 
Furneaux,  175 
Futter,  309,  310 


Gaell,  330 

Gage,  255,  287,  308,  377,  406 

Gale,  323 

Game,  398 

Games,  163,  164 

Gant,  de,  48 

Gardiner,  23,  165,  169,  250, 
258 

Gardner,  120,  219,  400 
Garnett,  97,  187 
Gamham,  309,  311 
Gameys,  2,  12,  13,  267,  307 
Garnon,  264,  265,  283,  285, 
286,  305 
Garrad.  4,  169 
Garrard,  9,  13,  167,  186 
Garreh’m,  288 
Garrod,  240 
Gascoyn,  132 
Gaseley,  9,  13 
Gason,  309 


Gates,  123 

Gattes,  122,  123 

Gawdy,  10,  11,  133,  134,  173 

Gaye,  288,  311 

Gayford,  11 

Geater,  221 

Gedding,  175 

Gee,  328,  329 

Gelgate,  245 

Cell,  31 

Gentleman,  183 

Germyn,  244 

Gernoun,  305,  309,  311 

Gerrard,  6,  317 

Gibbon,  3,  12,  149 

Gibbons,  5 

Gibbs,  377,  380 

Gibson,  376 

Giffard,  61 

Gilbert,  8,  12,  37,  157,  164, 
397 

Gilby,  402 
Giles,  94,  237 

Girdlestone,  205,  208,  221, 
222 

Girling,  163.  164,  276,  280 
Gislingham,  56,  63,  74,  75, 
80 

Gissing,  243 
Glamvyle,  270 
Glanvyle,  270,  278 
Glanusk,  Ld.,  169 
Glascock,  216 
Gleane,  188,  189,  200 
Glenton,  176 

Gloucester,  E.  of,  61,  77,  207 
Glover,  310 
Glynne,  185 
Goband,  102 
Gobi  on,  281 
Goche,  288,  365,  365 
Godbold,  146 
Goddard,  163,  304 
Goddill,  336 
Godfrey,  101 
Goderick,  240,  255 
Godson,  180 
Godyng,  82 
Godsalve,  202 
Golding,  26 
Goldingham,  253,  257 
Goldsmith,  69,  126 
Goldstone,  151 
Golley,  35 
Goltie,  9,  13,  325 
Gooch,  293,  310,  311,  318,  319 
Goodale,  305 
Gooding,  10,  35,  101 
Goodman,  374,  380 
Goodrich,  193,  398 
Goodwin,  4,  9,  13,  28,  36, 
37,  107,  108,  112,  113,  125, 
138,  139,  140,  152,  157, 
213,  354,  356,  359,  380 
Goodwyn,  als.  Rikkes,  107 
Gordan,  43 
Gore,  102,  105 
Gosling,  187,  203 
Gosnold,  7,  29,  36 
Gosselyn,  380 

Gostling,  130,  212,  213,  231 
Gothelard,  69 


Gould,  383 
Goulding,  126 
Gourney,  173,  176 
Goushill,  •  241,  317,  351 
Graham,  383 
Granby,  M.  of,  316 
Grange,  108,  110,  112 
Grant,  382 
Graunt,  339 
Gray,  de,  174,  251 
Gray,  104,  117,  174,  180, 
228,  235,  236,  237,  316 
Green,  39,  104,  109,  110, 
113,  240,  243,  245,  255,  311 
Greswold,  205 
Grieve,  334 
Griffin,  65 
Grigby,  197 
Grigge,  97 
Grigson,  150 
Grimmesby,  69 
Grimstone,  261,  262,  265 
Grimwade,  349 
Grimwood,  342,  343,  355 
Grinlinge,  4 

Groome,  152,  343,  344,  368, 
372,  379,  380,  371 
Grove,  111,  255 
Gryme,  228 

Grymes,  146,  147,  249,  253, 
257 

Guehste,  144,  149 
Ginbon,  9 
Guildford,  241 
Guilement,  55 
Gurdon,  346 
Gurney,  10,  28,  36,  112 
Guy,  295 
Gwillim,  54 
Gwydyr,  96,  103 
Gyer,  388 
Gyon,  388 


Hacktree,  72 
Hacket,  240 
Hacon,  255,  386 
Haddon,  210 
Hagar,  237 
Haia,  de,  57 
Hainault,  E.  of,  207,  241 
Haldene,  260 
Hale,  240,  326 
Hales,  207,  317 
Halford,  202,  303,  312 
Hall,  271,  294,  312 
Halliley,  374 
Hamilton,  96,  237 
Hammon,  325 

Hamond,  120,  131,  141,  284, 
327,  332,  355,  357,  360, 
365,  399 

Hamp,  169,  170,  405 
Hancock,  109,  110,  113,  141 
Handleye,  de,  77 
Hankford,  207 
Hankin,  168,  405 
Hanmer,  112 
Hannam,  361,  362 

3  D2 


420 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Hanson,  112 

Harbord,  88,  119,  120,  356, 
361 

Harborne,  227,  228 
Harding,  310 
Hardnett,  188 
Hare,  164,  293 
Hareborne,  228 
Hargate,  28 
Hargrave,  44 
Harkes,  46 
Harlakenden,  164 
Harlewin,  173,  278 
Harmer,  267 
Harms  worth,  361,  362 
Harold,  King,  363,  364 
Harrington,  133,  135 
Harris,  116,  120,  147,  236, 
253  256 

Harrison,  122,  123,  125,  126, 
133,  134,  194,  295,  298, 
299,  300,  305,  306,  340,  376, 
399 

Harsick,  10,  11,  24 
Harsnet,  236 

Hart,  16,  21,  217,  309,  382, 
383 

Harvy,  5,  174,  217,  220,  392 
Harwell,  290,  292,  304,  306, 
309,  318,  325,  152 
Hasell,  86,  105,  117,  120,  356, 
360 

Haslewood,  113 
Hassall,  188,  189,  191,  194, 
200,  202 
Hasshold,  200 
Hasted,  132 

Hastings,  59,  60,  74,  76,  151, 
171,  173,  174,  175,  225, 
226,  236 
Hatch,  334 
Hatchen,  315 
Haughes,  4 
Hautille,  54,  56 
Hauuil,  57 
Hauvyle,  de,  82 
Havell,  55 
Havenell,  55 
Haville,  de,  45 
Hawes,  219 
Hawell,  26,  84 
Hawkins,  39,  202,  401 
Hawstede,  18 
Hawys,  4.  9,  13 
Hay,  de,  57 
Haydon,  57 
Hayes,  296,  314 
Haynes,  211 

Hayward,  7,  117,  170,  296, 
322,  396,  400 
Head,  202,  222 
Heath,  313,  406 
Heaton,  318 

Heigham,  21,  92,  95,  150, 
154,  242,  246,  258,  351 
Helden,  315 
Helder,  402 
Helmes,  101 
Hemenhale,  69 
Heniphale,  69 
Henley,  203 
Hennings,  299 


Hereford,  de,  80 
He.nry  III,  1,  241,  317 
Henry  VII,  316 
Henry  VIII,  207 
Hepburn,  267 
Herberd,  uls.  Yaxley,  25 
Hercye,  47 
Herle,  de,  82 
Herlock,  82 
Herne,  185,  188,  202 
Herrick,  158 
Hershaw,  187 
Herteshorn,  226,  227 
Hertford,  de,  80 
Hervey,  69,  106,  218,  243, 
255.  283,  374,  377,  403 
Her  ward,  391 
Heseth.  366 
Hessett,  283 
Henmarsh,  102,  105 
Heveningham,  155,  176,  185, 
243,  255,  257 
Hewale,  22 
Hewitt,  168 
Heydon,  173,  185 
Heyward,  191,  192,  202,  210, 
211,  213,  379,  395,  406 
Hevwood,  382 
Hickes,  349 

Higham,  128,  148,  252,  255, 
256 

Highgate,  309 
Highton,  148 
Hill,  39,  40,  87,  274,  278 
Hitch,  222,  223 
Hobart,  10,  11,  20,  120,  236, 
283,  305 
Hoberde,  182 
Hobson,  383 
Hogan,  44 
Hogg,  334 
Hoggar,  280 
Hoggins,  96 
Holborn,  182 
Holden,  169,  323,  405 
Holding,  405 
Holdrich,  304 
Holford,  303 
Holland,  175,  207 
Hollins,  32 
Holliwell,  142 
Holloway,  125 
Holme,  363,  288 
Holmes,  101,  311,  383 
Holmested,  152 
Holt,  134 
Homes,  115 
Hoo,  155,  160 
Hood,  Ld.,  206 
Hooper,  258 
Hopton,  10,  167 
Hore,  254 
Horne,  236 
Horneby,  377 
Hornsey,  158,  160 
Horsman,  1,  2,  9,  13 
Hort,  362 
Hoste,  362 
Houberd,  138 
Houdyn,  79 

Houell,  4,  9,  10,  44,  45,  47. 
54,  75,  59,  61,  62,  98 


Houghton,  140,  141,  142, 

143,  144,  145,  149,  150,  151, 
303 

Houlot,  282 

Hovell,  1-84,  25,  53,  86,  105, 
101,  110,  111,  112,  113,  118, 
140,  228,  403,  404 
Hovell,  als.  Smith,  1-84,  68, 
80,  140,  150,  152,  279, 
280,  403 
Hoverel,  55 

Hovile,  Hovyl,  54,  82,  84 
Howard,  182,  207,  222,  241, 
313,  316,  531 

Howe,  52,  126,  128,  129,  133, 

134,  135,  138,  139,  140, 
163,  187,  276,  277,  281, 
303  311 

Howeil,  16,  40,  44,  45,  48, 
55,  85,  87 
Howett,  181 

Hewlett,  50,  53,  191,  293, 
305 

Howlott,  388 
Howman,  197,  204 
Howsego,  18 
Howys,  72 

Hubbard,  10,  16,  18,  21,  127, 

135,  305.  350 
Hubert,  142 
Huchenson,  31,  32 
Hudson,  135,  180,  286 
Huggon,  40 
Hulbert,  21,  37 
Humberston,  246 
Humfrey,  239,  270,  363,  364, 

368,  379,  381 
Hungate,  268 

Hungerford,  48,  299,  303,  312, 
317 

Hunsdon,  Ld.,  208 
Hunstanton,  de,  173 
Hunt,  9,  10,  12,  13,  238, 
397,  398,  400 
Hunter,  383 

Huntington,  158,  159,  160, 
338 

Hyde,  47,  174,  208 
Hynnes,  368 


Ilia,  381 

Inchequin,  Ld.,  38 
Ingge,  87,  119,  404 
Insula,  de,  57 
Inwood,  53 
Ipping,  244 
Ireland,  151,  194 
Irwine,  315 

Ive,  162,  164,  365,  400,  405 
Ives,  237 


Jackman,  229,  237 
Jackson,  109,  159,  205 
Jacob,  331 

James,  14,  20,  21,  25,  30, 
37,  169,  170 


James  I,  299 
Jarvill,  243 
Jarvis,  308 
Jary,  382, 

Jay,  191,  311 
Jebb,  176 
Jefferies,  264,  274 
Jeffery,  22,  101,  266,  268' 
Jellolv,  204 
Jellow,  354,  360 
Jemmett,  40 
Jenkin,  349 
Jenney,  169,  261 
Jenour  72 

Jentylman,  181,  182,  183 
Jenycks,  369 

Jermy,  228,  265,  267,  351 
Jermyn,  95,  103,  137,  192,. 
197,  198,  208,  240,  242,. 
255,  351,  397 
Jernegan,  236 
Jerningham,  20,  227,  234 
Jervis,  119,  137,  138 
Jesmond,  360 
Jessop,  34,  319 
Jetter,  160 
Jewell,  43,  44 
Jhones,  119 

Johnson,  172,  174,  176,  202, 
388,  406 

Jolly,  16,  27,  35,  36 
Jones,  287,  344,  359,  360,. 
361 

Jorden,  43,  168 
Jowers,  101 
Judd,  45,  46,  47,  358 
Jugg,  see  Ingg 
Juxon,  32,  194 


Kana,  de,  78 
Keable,  28 
Keado,  230 
Keate,  318 

Keble,  9,  12,  269-280,  368, 
370,  378,  379,  381,  406 
Kedington,  307,  314 
Kemball,  169,  345 
Kempe,  103,  105,  156,  160,. 
181,  208,  225-237.  240,  242, 
256,  276,  277,  315,  406 
Kempthorne,  361 
Kendal,  380 

Kent,  140,  156,  159,  176, 
187,  191,  203 
Kent,  E.  of,  175,  207 
Kenton,  265 
Kenyon-Slaney,  362 
Kerrington,  19,  21 
Kervill,  175 
Ketelyng,  154 
Kettle,  165,  169 
Kettleburgli,  263 
Kett,  266 

Kilborne,  4,  9,  13,  204 
Kilby,  205 
Kilderbee,  358 
Killegrew,  255 
Killegrave,  255 
Kinder,  267 


INDEX  NOMINUM. 


421 


King,  69,  213,  217,  237, 

250,  256,  258,  269,  270, 

277,  299,  300,  303,  304, 

312,  361,  378,  381 
Kinnesman,  281 
Kitchener,  266,  267 
Kitchener,  Ld.,  266 
Kitson,  28,  257 
Knapp,  2,  9,  10,  11,  12,  13, 
21,  152 

Knevett,  173,  364 
Knight,  278,  297,  308,  349 
Knightley,  175 
Knocking,  de,  173 
Knope,  3 
Knyvett,  203,  363 


Laborer,  391 
Laci,  Lacy,  de,  173,  175 
Lakingheath,  71 
Lamb,  103 
Lambert,  315,  405 
Lampet,  71 
Lancaster,  E.  of,  175 
Laney,  227,  352 
Langham,  141,  142,  143,  149, 
150 

Langley,  299,  356, .  ~  30 
Langston,  47 
Large,  254 
Latham,  205 
Latimer,  Ld.,  241 
Laverick,  174 

Lawe,  190,  191,  202,  211,  212, 
213 

Lawrence,  126,  129,  130,  133, 
134,  135,  174,  228,  344, 
349,  382 

Layer,  188,  190,  191,  200,  202 
Layton,  131,  132,  134,  189 
Leake,  96,  345,  347,  349 
Le  Brun,  173 
Leche,  87 

Lee,  194,  202,  230,  336 
Leech,  371,  372 
Leefe,  245 
Legg,  166 
Le  Grice,  382 
Leicester,  E.  of,  317 
Leman,  203,  288,  303,  315 
Lemon,  194 
Lenacre,  379 
Lenne,  107 

Leofstan,  55,  56,  74,  76 
Le  Plaiz,  173 
Lestrange,  34 
Leventhorpe,  362 
Lewis,  149,  168,  169 
Lewknor,  174 
Lewnyng,  180 
Ley,  362 
Leyman,  254 
Lilling,  254 
Lilly,  24,  35,  36,  107 
Lincoln,  E.  of,  175 
Lincoln,  als.  Skinner,  152 
Lindsell,  111 

Ling,  184,  185,  200,  201,  202 
Lingwood,  152 


Linsdale,  113 
Lisle,  33 
Little,  204 
Littlebury,  353 
Littleton,  312 
Llewelyn,  102,  105 
Loaden,  205 
Locke,  314,  318 
Lofekyn,  322 
Lofham,  de,  1 
Lomax,  203 
Londe,  403,  404 
Londen,  338 
Long,  30,  306,  386 
Lord,  110,  293 
Love,  9,  158,  160,  195 
Loveday,  75,  77,  236 
Lovel,  207 
Lowen,  335 
Louthe,  368 
Lowther,  317 
Lucas,  103,  246,  255,  353 
Luckine,  216 
Lucy,  394 

Lufkyn,  270,  327,  330,  332, 
333 

Lumley,  18,  250,  316 
Lumnor,  174 
Lund,  279 
Lunsford,  230,  237 
Lusher,  401 
Luther,  149 
Lycense,  216 
Lygate,  394 
Lyllye,  395 
Lynch,  33,  361,  362 
Lynsey,  394 
Lytefoote,  10,  21 


Mackwilliam,  394 
Maidstone,  125,  133,  135 
Malet,  55 
Mallom,  203,  237 
Mallory,  254 
Mallowes,  90 
Maltby,  307 
Maltravers,  241 
Malyn,  107 
Man,  4,  102,  105,  353 
Man  by,  195 
Manchester,  E.  of,  34 
Manclark,  185,  202 
Manhood,  167,  397 
Manister,  144 
Manley,  405 

Mann,  23,  129,  159,  160, 
166,  167,  168,  169,  236,  237, 
278,  330,  331,  332,  360,  405 
Manners,  316 
Mannesyne,  67 
Manning,  93,  96,  99,  103, 
109,  113,  160,  166,  311, 
360,  383 
Mannock,  166 
Manser,  28,  282 
Manwood,  165,  169,  396,  397, 
398,  400,  401 
Mapes,  107 
Mar  bury,  378 
March,  354 


Marchal,  391 
Marchoys,  79 
Marescal,  260 

Mareschal,  the  Earl,  64,  65 
Margeris,  183 
Markeshale,  244 
Markham,  133 
Markant,  135 

Markes,  138,  200,  201,  202 
Marler,  186 
Marriott,  278,  310 
Marsh,  382 
Marsham,  202 

Martin,  25,  54,  255,  296, 
347,  383,  394 
Mascall,  300 
Mascot,  176 

Masham,  16,  18,  21,  36,  37, 
370 

Mason,  42,  43,  44,  97,  169, 
188,  240,  358,  360,  361,  362 
Massey,  240 
Massingberd,  335,  336 
Maston,  240 

Matcham,  206,  208,  242,  256 
May,  28,  71,  192,  213,  360, 
361,  362 
Maydwell,  43 
Mayes,  185,  202 
May  hew,  169,  84 
Mayor,  307 
Meade,  143,  149 
Meadow,  155,  274,  253 
Meadows,  279,  327,  331,  332, 
345 

Medefeld,  79 
Melton,  234,  236 
Memies,  281,  282,  300,  311, 
313,  406 
Mercer,  101 
Mercier,  104 
Mereweather,  38 
Merriman,  104 
Merry,  255 
Merton,  394 
Messenger,  293,  306 
Messing,  297 
Metyngham,  de,  80,  81 
Mey,  283 

Middleton,  309,  317,  332 
Mildmav,  249,  253,  257,  370 
Miles,  358, 

Mileson,  1 12,  145,  146,  148, 
150 

Milman,  314 
Miller,  224 

Miller,  als.  Barnard,  370 
Milles,  15,  16,  21,  271 
Milleson,  144 
Minster,  221 
Mints,  303 
Mitchell,  39 
Mochet,  364 
Molines,  Ld.,  207 
Mollish,  38 
Molyneux,  317 
Monceux,  72,  76 
Monchensy,  70,  71,  75,  76 
Mondeford,  210 
Monins,  267 
Monk,  174 
Monner,  80 


Montacute,  175 
Monte  Camiso,  de,  56,  75, 
77 

Monyngs,  18,  21,  36,  37 
Moody,  9,  12,  13,  131 
Moore,  148,  235,  236,  239 
Moore  (Ipswich),  235 
Moorland,  387,  390 
Morbene,  300 
Mordant,  10,  35,  36 
Morden,  86,  88,  89,  97,  103, 
105,  113,  404, 

Mordun,  86 
More,  83,  84,  403,  404 
Moredon,  90 
Morell,  387,  390,  391 
Morgan,  208,  352 
Morgan,  als.  Carter,  278 
Morice,  50 

Morieux,  171,  173,  238 
Morley,  Ld.,  207,  240 
Morphew,  309 

Morris,  49,  50,  53,  159,  160, 
295 

Morse,  12,  291,  375 
Mortimer,  265,  317 
Morwan,  77 
Moss,  96 

Mothe,  10,  27,  35,  36 
Mott,  325,  401 
Mo'ubray,  364 
Mouchet,  364 
Mount,  310 
Mowbray,  173,  207 
Moyse,  123 
Muchet,  364 
Muller,  112 
Munchensy,  70,  71,  75 
Mundy,  212 
Munfichet,  58 
Munnings,  176 
Murdun,  87 
Mure,  256 
Muschett,  364,  379 
Musgrave,  317 
Muskett,  4,  363-383,  406 
Mutford,  225 
Mylles,  230 
Mynn,  174 
Mynnes,  368 
Mynsale,  388 


Nathan,  310 
Navarre,  Q.  of,  241 
Nayler,  397,  398,  400 
Neave,  152,  228 
Neeve.  273 
Nell,  Mr.,  178 

Nelson,  152,  198,  196,  199, 
204,  205,  206,  208,  221,  222, 
229,  234,  240,  242,  256,  290, 
307 

Neve,  229,  275,  280 
Neville,  10,  175,  241,  242, 
253,  256 

Newburgh,  de,  48 
Newcastle,  E.  of,  34 
Newcomen,  128,  129,  131, 

132,  133,  134 
Newdigate,  374,  378,  380 


422 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Newehage,  57 
Newehawe,  154 
Newman,  308,  436,  349,  351, 
405,  407 
Newport,  207 
Newson,  19,  21, 

Newton,  75,  251,  252,  255, 
276,  280 
Nichel,  111 
Nicholas,  150 
Nickols,  96 
Nicolson,  166 
Nigel,  48 
Noble,  49 
Nods,  335 
Nonne,  246 
Noone,  255 

Norfolk,  D.  of,  15,  195,  207, 
210 

Norgate,  362 
Norman,  109,  110 
Normanton,  E.  of,  206,  222 
Norris,  145,  313,  331 
North,  83,  108,  148,  149,  224 
Northampton,  E.  of,  301 
Northerne,  65,  186 
Norton,  227,  343,  349 
Norwich,  106,  108 
Notyngham,  154 
Novell,  11,  111 
Nun,  143,  180 

Nunn,  162,  164,  169,  279,  280, 
315,  350,  395,  400 
Nuthall,  223 
Nutman,  368 
Nutt,  102,  105 


Oddy,  350 
Odlin,  151 
Offley,  102,  105 
■  Ogilvy,  308 
Oillie,  de,  47 
Oldring,  336 
Olive,  297 
Oliver,  182 
Olney,  254 
Olyve,  283 
Onley,  382 
Onslow,  204,  208 
Oranmore,  Ld.,  112 
Orford,  E.  of,  198 
Orkney,  E.  of,  282 
Orme,  111 
Ormes,  111,  113 
Ormonde,  E.  of,  207 
Orton,  301 
Osbonde,  137 

Osborne,  151,  194,  203,  297, 
367,  379 
Ossebin,  282 
Ottway,  158 
Owen,  205 

Oxford,  E.  of,  241,  341,  347 


Page,  64,  151,  231,  361,  385, 
402 

Paine,  see  Payne 
Palfrey,  401 


Palgrave,  185,  204,  260 
Palmer,  391 
Pamphlin,  111,  113 
Pannell,  269,  277 
Parker,  168,  207,  208,  240, 
366,  379,  390,  391 
Parkes,  184 
Parkhurst,  166 
Parkys,  391 
Parlett,  376 
Paroissien,  104 
Parr,  175,  241 
Parryson,  181 
Parson,  77,  252 
Parsons,  47,  129,  134 
Partrich,  2 

Partridge,  271,  279,  348.  349, 
350,  385,  401 
Passelle,  268 

Paston,  174,  175,  176,  241, 
253,  255,  257 
Pateshill,  de,  57 
Patrick,  5,  384,  401 
Pattell,  106 
Paul,  332 

Payne,  82,  112,  121,  122, 
130,  133,  134,  167,  295, 
310,  336,  397,  400,  401 
Paynel,  281 

Payton,  138,  141,  149,  150, 
151 

Peach,  13 
Peachie,  102,  124 
Peacock,  352,  210 
Pears,  176,  267 
Pease,  176 
Peasenhall,  156 
Pecche,  62,  77 
Pechy,  124,  90,  91 
Pecock,  210 
Peeters,  295 
Pegge,  343,  344 
Peirse,  91 
Penning,  113 
Pennington,  8 
Pennye,  28 
Pennyman,  33 
Pensthorpe,  de,  74,  75 
Peppen,  279 
Percy,  192,  317 
Perdxiz,  384 
Perkins,  219 
Perrey,  205 
Perrot,  48 
Petre,  120 
Pett,  96,  103 
Petridge,  384 
Pettingall,  202,  203 
Pettiward,  222 
Petto  we,  185 
Petyshall,  160 

Peyton,  136,  203,  208,  254, 
265.  See  also  Payton 
Phaire,  40 
Phelyppe,  260 
Philbrick,  169 
Philip  (King),  246 
Philip  III,  of  France,  175 
Phillips,  109,  113,  233,  237, 
334,  378 
Philpot,  294 
Pichford,  173 


Pierson,  221 
Pigott,  47,  312 
Pinchebek,  56 
Pinverell,  57,  80 
Pirritt,  39 
Pistor,  306 
Pitcher,  255 
Pitt,  307 

Plain pyn,  19,  235,  333 
Plandon,  14 

Plantagenet,  207,  241,  317 
Plasshe,  365 

Platers,  174,  176,  246,  255 
Platman,  156,  160 
Playford,  335,  336 
Pless,  Princess  of,  95 
Plestow,  359,  360 
Pocklington,  318 
Pocock,  318 

Pointz,  148,  238,  239,  240 
Pole,  de  la,  207 
Poley,  2,  9,  12,  13,  175,  255, 
261,  262,  265 
Polley,  245,  334 
Ponchard,  280 
Ponder,  14 
Poole,  371,  372,  402 
Pooley,  101 
Poor,  le,  61 
Porey,  310 
Porter,  308 
Potter,  94 
Powle,  84 
Powley,  262 
Powis,  Prince  of,  173 
Pratt,  88,  89,  168 
Prentiss,  174 
Preston,  1,  60,  78,  158 
Pretty,  222 

Pretyman,  133,  135,  237,  240, 
271,  406 
Prideaux,  317 
Prime,  116 
Prinne,  316 
Prisote,  154 
Pritchett,  169 
Probert,  337  ’ 

Proctor,  122,  133,  134,  229 
Proud,  223 

Provence,  Count  of,  317 

P’sone,  282 

Pryde,  385 

Pudsey,  317 

Pullyn,  196 

Punder,  29 

Punt,  174 

Puys,  93 

Pye,  309 

Pyers,  336 

Pykarell,  307 

Pyke,  171,  173 

Pyne,  267 

Pyrlyston,  386 


Quantrell,  277,  315 
Quarles,  167,  128,  239,  298, 
299,  301,  306 
Queyth,  154 


Radcliff,  317,  318 

Radford,  173 

Radnor,  E.  of,  222 

Raffe,  315 

Rainsford,  47,  48 

Raleigh,  146,  148,  255 

Ralph,  fU.,  75 

Ram,  244,  349 

Rame,  253 

Ramell,  204 

Ramsey,  259,  265 

Randall,  158,  160,  202,  240, 

401 

Raney,  132,  133,  134,  135 
Ranney,  205 
Rant,  176 

Rattlesden,  de,  72,  73,  76 
Raven,  109,  210,  113,  198 
Ray,  123,  386,  400 
Raydon,  358 
Rayley,  159,  160 
Raymond,  118,  119,  131,  309 
Raymer,  130 
Rayner,  375 
Raynes,  236 
Raynham,  388 
Raynold,  339,  340 
Raynolds,  370 

Read,  137,  140,  141,  142,  145, 
149,  151,  232,  372 
Redesham,  243,  260 
Redgrave,  355,  357 
Redham,  283 
Redmayne,  306 
Reeve,  Reve,  110,  112,  184, 
202,  212,  260,  310  328, 

402 

Reeve,  als.  Wright,  25 
Reeves,  203 
Regneld,  365,  379 
Regnold,  365,  366,  392 
Reilly,  240 
Remington,  314,  318 
Repps,  302,  105,  243,  265 
Revell,  88,  119,  350 
Revelstoke,  Ld.,  120 
Revett,  27,  149,  283,  305, 
331,  332,  356,  360 
Rewse,  4 
Rey,  85 
Reyner,  141 
Reynold,  186 

Reynolds,  90,  105,  133,  135, 
168,  362 

Rice,  23,  315,  161 
Rich,  193,  200,  202 
Richar,  163,  164 
Richards,  34,  170,  377,  380 
Richardson,  123,  125,  133, 
134,  169,  382 

Richmond,  178,  179,  310,  318 
Richmond,  als.  Webb,  40 
Richold,  124 
Rickes,  107,  112 
Rickes,  als.  Goodwin,  107 
Ride,  315 

Risby,  150,  213,  351 
Ritcher,  215 
Rivers,  168,  359,  360 
Rix,  105 
Roades,  151 
Roberts,  166,  267,  344 


Robhud,  20,  21 
Robinson,  266 
Rochester,  200,  201,  202 
Rochford,  Ld.,  207 
Rockett,  373 
Rokket,  286 
Rockod,  234 
Roderick,  51 
Rodway,  255 
Rodye,  46 
Rogell,  272 
Roger,  402 

Rogers,  125,  126,  127,  133, 
134,  135,  316 
Rokeland,  243,  244 
Rolfe,  151,  245,  349,  351 
Romilly,  104 
Roodes,  137,  149 
Rooke,  163,  164 
Rooks,  18 

Rookwood,  203,  234,  240,  261, 
394 

Roos,  Ld.,  207,  208,  241,  351 
Roose,  185 
Rootsey,  334 

Rose,  228,  326,  336,  341, 
354,  397,  400,  401 
Rosier,  343 
Ross,  315 
Roubiry,  226 
Rouncery,  175 

Rouse,  41,  44,  156,  160,  228, 
229,  235,  257,  274 
Rowse,  227,  237,  378 
Roydon,  238,  271,  277 
Rudd,  383 
Ruddock,  39 
Rudland,  344 
Rugge,  317 
Ruggles,  151 
Rumsey,  205 
Runton,  334 
Rush,  287 

Rushbrook,  171,  173,  243, 
246,  254,  378,  379 
Russell,  10,  28,  35,  36,  40, 
191,  359,  360,  361,  391 
Rutland,  D.  of,  316 
Ryce,  23 
Rycce,  363,  364 


Sabborne,  1 23 

Sacheverel,  47,  48,  303,  312 
Salisbury,  38,  382 
Sallowes,  276 
Salmon,  280 

Salter,  14,  15,  18,  20,  21, 
25,  36,  37,  148,  149,  162, 
163,  164,  251,  257 
Samon,  370 
Sandys,  36 
Sare,  399 

Sargeant,  368,  377 
Saunders,  237 
Saunderson,  142 
Savage,  102,  105 
Saxton,  254 


INDEX  NOMINUM.  423 


Saye  and  gele,  47,  48 
Sayer,  204,  257,  303,  309 
Scales,  67,  365 
Scainbler,  36 
Scarborough,  E.  of,  316 
Scarburgh,  115 
Scarlet,  163 
Scarse,  323,  331 
Schotford,  79 
Scotland,  254 

Scott,  128,  135,  306,  334, 
344 

Scottowe,  196,  203 
Scrime,  als.  Cremer,  28,  37 
Seake,  47 
Seaman,  120,  185 
Seckford,  47 
Sedley,  310,  313 
Seevar,  185 
Segne  de,  57 
Segrave,  76,  207 
Sell,  87,  119 
Sendall,  110,  113 
Sendon,  109,  113 
Sengilton,  282 
Serell,  333 
Sergeant,  310,  368 
Sergeaux,  268 
Serwold,  275  ' 

Setele,  48 
Sewell,  4,  333 
Sexton,  41 
Seymer,  33 
Seymour,  316 

Shardelow,  82,  83,  153,  237 
Sharpe,  11,  20,  21,  151,  236, 
237,  310,  348,  370,  378,  379, 
381 

Sharpe,  als.  Smarte,  26 
Sharpull,  50,  53 
Sharington,  236 
Shawe,  174,  195,  222 
Sheene,  217,  218,  221,  251, 
257 

Sheffield,  314,  318 
Sheldrake,  169,  266,  268, 

386 

Shelley,  116,  152,  242 
Shelton,  203,  204,  207,  208, 
227,  229,  238,  239,  242, 
253,  255,  256,  258,  307 
Sheppard,  258,  275,  279, 

306 

Shercroft,  401 
Sheri  fEe,  124 
Sherland,  263 
Sherman,  124,  127,  344 
Shilston,  317 
Shirley,  120 
Shuldham,  84 
Shulver,  310] 

Shute,  317 
Sibbes,  368,  378,  380 
Sibton,  365 

Sicklemore,  269,  275,  276, 
279 

Sidebothom,  314,  318 
Silverlock,  42 
Simons,  169,  405 
Sincott,  47 
Skepper,  333 
Skete,  160 


Skinner,  138,  361 
Skinner,  als.  Lincoln,  152 
Skipp,  28,  37 
Skipper,  331 
Skippon,  407 
Skitter,  350 
Sknelhawk,  338 
Slaney,  Kenyon,  362 
Slater,  133,  134 
Smalwood,  374,  378,  380 
Smart,  43 

Smarte,  als.  Sharpe,  26 
Smerte,  394 

Smith,  11,  12,  21,  24,  25,  26, 
28,  37,  41,  92,  102,  123,  141, 

156,  163,  164,  174,  199, 

231,  235,  239,  250,  276,  279, 
280,  282,  291,  292,  309, 

310,  315,  319,  327,  333, 

361,  362,  365 
Smith  of  Bacton,  306 
Smith,  Charity,  49 
Smith,  als.  Hovell,  1-40,  49- 
53,  403 
Smythies,  96 
Smythwyn,  235,  236,  237 
Snelling,  133,  134,  135 
Soame,  114,  115,  116,  120 
Soane,  Sone,  225,  232,  233, 
237 

Socling,  177 
Sokelyng,  179 
Solly,  361 
Somerley,  224 
Somerset,  241 
Somery,  de,  173 
Sone,  see  Soame 
Sorrell,  101,  325 
Sothebie,  239 
South,  156 
Southalls,  160 
Southcott,  189,  202 
Southwell,  174,  301 
Southwood,  191,  332 
Spalding,  293,  380 
Sparham,  218 

Sparhawk,  124,  127,  133,  135, 
282 

Sparkeford,  81 

Sparrow,  88,  101,  150,  286, 
326,  327,  332,  344,  349,  351 
Spar’ we,  385 
Sped,  386 
Speede,  145 

Spelman,  172,  174,  176,  228 
Spencer,  67,  207,  208,  212, 
233,  351 

Spendlove,  187,  190,  191, 

202,  203 

Spenney,  354,  360 
Spetilman,  71 
Spinney,  354 

Spring,  95,  103,  171,  172, 
174,  213,  246,  253,  254, 
255,  256,  257,  287 
Spurgeon,  379,  382 
Spurhard,  79 
Spurling,  361 
Spynk,  366 
Squire,  96,  97 
St.  Albans,  E.  of.  111,  192 
St.  George,  10,  24 


St.  John,  40,  207 
Stachey,  405 
Stacye,  340 

Stafford,  E.  of,  125,  127,  207, 
241,  258,  310 
Stagg,  102,  105 
Stamford,  268,  315 
Stanley,  208,  247,  317 
Stannard,  4,  367,  399 
Stansby,  122 

Stanton,  123,  133,  134,  228, 
235,  236 
Starling,  125 
Steagull,  315 
Stebbing,  20,  103,  123 
Stedman,  198 
Steevens,  294 
Stekyll,  14 
Stephen,  249 
Stephens,  253 
Sterling,  356 
Steplehill,  31  7 
Sterne,  202 
Stevens,  Mr.,  247 
Steward,  35,  168,  401 
Stisted,  127,  130,  135 
Stobyn,  337,  339 
Stocke,  348 
Stockton,  166 
Stokes,  9 
Stone,  151,  203 
Stoneham,  31 
Stonore,  66,  67 
Stoughton,  160,  347,  348 
Stowiczek,  262 
Stradling,  47 
Strand,  168 

Strange,  173,  171,  241,  254, 
351 

Strode,  261 
Strowger,  166 

Stuart,  31,  36,  110,  282- 

313 

Stubbe,  174 
Stubbin,  169,  405 
Stubbs,  295,  305 
Stuckey,  124 
Sturges,  17 
Stutter,  383 
Stutvile,  87 

Style,  34,  37,  148,  149, 

235,  236 
Stylehouse,  116 
Styles,  148 

Suckling,  159,  160,  177-208, 
212,  213,  229,  232,  237, 
240,  242,  256,  406, 

Suffield,  Ld.,  88,  103,  118,. 

120,  404 
Sugg,  399 
Suggate,  315 

Suliard,  25,  47,  259,  261,  263, 
265,  268,  289,  291,  370 
Summerlay,  219 
Sussex,  E.  of,  247 
Sutton,  71,  212 
Swany,  200,  201 
Swatlyng,  175 
Swattock,  365 
Swayne,  142,  183,  184,  202 
Swayton,  335 
Swinerton,  254 


424 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES, 


Swynborne,  186 
Swynford,  207 
Sydley,  303 

Syer,  5,  12,  168,  267,  344 
Sylesdon,  365 
Symcotts,  51 

Symonds,  93,  95,  103,  272, 
279,  283,  285,  286,  306 
Symson,  338 
Synge,  39 


Tailer,  402 

Talmach,  29,  246,  252,  253, 
256 

Talmage,  252,  255,  261 
Talworthy,  376,  398,  400 
Talyor,  le,  64 
Tanvr,  79 
Tassell,  84,  254 
Taster,  329,  333 
Taylor,  88,  112,  149,  240, 
307,  322,  350,  371,  381,  383 
Teate,  142 
Tedgell,  380 
Tendall,  246 
Tenison,  204 
Tepshefe,  20,  21,  403 
Terrell,  287 
Tevell,  279 
Tey,  245 
Thackham,  43 
Theobald,  5 
Thetford,  311 
Thing,  309,  366 
Thomas,  176,  405 
Thompson,  130,  168,  156 
Thon’s,  368 
Thorne,  213,  265 
Thorneton,  118,  119,  120, 
159,  160 
Thornhill,  256 
Thorold,  176 
Thorowgood,  278 
Thorpe,  10,  139,  142,  204, 
243 

Thorpe,  de,  64,  65,  68,  363, 
364' 

Thresher,  369 

Throckmorton,  146,  151,  236 

Thrower,  322 

Thurbern,  284,  306 

Thurgor,  386 

Thurlow,  1,  7,  8,  12 

Thurstan,  fil.,  74 

Thurston,  197 

Thwaytes,  265 

Thykebrom,  de,  79 

Thyng,  366 

Thyslbern,  180 

Tibetoft,  241,  351 

Tidmarsh,  361 

Tillett,  152 

Tilley,  281 

Tilney,  207 

Tilson,  122,  123 

Timperley,  400 

Tindal,  95,  314,  317,  318 

Tipshithe,  403 

Todd,  307,  310,  315,  319 


Todenham,  63 
Tollmache,  345 
Tomline,  307,  308,  361,  406 
Tompson,  267 
Topshefe,  20,  21,  403 
Toppesfield,  265 
Torkington,  8,  12 
Tower,  308 

Townshend,  30,  195,  198, 

206,  250,  257,  302,  303, 
405 

Traas,  402 
Tracy,  303 
Trafford.  169 
Travis,  349,  351 
Tregoz,  de,  173 
Tremayne,  47 
Trenham,  168 
Trevor,  147,  250 
Trusson,  361,  362 
Tuvbb,  204 

Tuddenham,  de,  63,  69,  70, 
74,  75,  76,  80 
Tudway,  222 

Turner,  10,  15,  20,'  21,  35, 
36,  37,  112,  115,  125,  186, 
198,  201,  203,  205,  206,  208, 
216,  240,  242,  256,  258, 
271,  334,  382 
Turpin,  281,  302,  303,  312 
Tweedy,  332 
Tyler,  28,  290,  398 
Tyllmer,  184 
Tyllott,  92,  258,  354 
Tymmes,  91,  154 
Tymperley,  161,  162,  163, 

164,  400 
Tyndale,  255 

Tyrrell,  150,  268,  271,  272, 
277,  306,  311,  315,  333 
Tytler,  314 


Uhtlioff,  318 
Unthank,  382 
Utber,  202 


Van  Knewbeck,  210 
Vaughan,  191 
Vaulx,  148,  173,  175 
Vavisor,  46 
Vel,  le,  79 
Venn,  332,  334 
Venner,  318 

Ventris,  129,  130,  131,  134, 
135,  325,  357 
Vere,  329,  332 
Vere,  de,  241,  347 
Verney,  47,  301,  302,  303, 
312 

Vernon,  112,  116,  120,  171, 
173 

Vesey,  8,  ,  iOI,  102.  176, 

202,  203,  228,  317,  329,  331, 
332,  381 
Vesky,  le,  59 


Vibert,  104 
Vice,  127 
Villers,  360 
Villiers,  164 

Vincent,  50,  53,  242,  368 
Vinffreye,  270 
Von  Linsingen,  364 
Voyce,  Voyse,  123,  127 
Vyner,  123 


Wade,  72,  93,  219,  234,  323 
Wage,  366,  367 
Wake,  32,  35,  36,  110,  111, 
175,  317,  383 
Wakelin,  165 


Walcote,  50 

Waldegrave, 

32, 

139, 

208, 

220,  229, 

231, 

236, 

237, 

239,  241, 

242, 

254, 

256, 

315,  325,  351,  394 
Wale,  102 
Wales,  266 
Walford,  350 

Walker,  101,  168,  327,  382 
Walkfare,  171,  173 
Wall,  343,  360 
Wallar,  368 
Waller,  166,  315,  368 
Wallinger,  257 
Wallis,  359,  360 
Walot,  151 

Walpole,  198,  203,  205,  206, 
208,  240,  242,  255 
Waltham,  323,  331 
Walton,  173 
Wanton,  202 

Ward,  64,  212,  360,  361, 
382,  386,  401 
Ward,  le,  64,  162 
Wareyn,  266,  386 
Warmington,  169 
Warner,  34,  37,  255,  310 
Warnes,  349 
Warren,  50,  89,  286 
Wartlock,  318 
Warwick,  E.  of,  48,  207 
Wase,  128,  129,  133,  135, 
152,  281,  312 
Washington,  152 
Wastneys,  31 
Waterhouse,  40,  123 
Waters,  110 
Watts,  53,  377,  380 
Waynflete,  182 
Webbe,  114,  176,  203,  315, 
391,  403 
Weeding,  350 
Welles,  167,  278,  390,  400 
Welles,  Ld.,  207 
Wellum,  168 
Welly s,  170,  340 
Welton,  356 
Welysham,  265 
Weniffe,  368,  377 
Wenman,  158 
Went,  269,  271,  277,  279 
Wentworth,  2,  208,  241,  350, 
351 

Weriband,  79 


West,  95,  112 

Westhorp,  64,  65,  77,  88,  103, 
147 

Westly,  124 
Westminster,  D.  of,  95 
Westrop,  109,  110,  111,  113, 
116 

Westwick,  74 
Wetherby,  279 
Weybrew,  205,  256 
Weyneve,  326,  368,  377 
Whatfeld,  365 
Whatlock, 

Wheeler,  223 
Wheelwright, 

Whersted,  365 
Whinnery,  276 
Whitaker,  205,  401 
Whitby,  276,  280 
White,  40,  236,  315,  333,  380 
Whitehead,  49,  286 
Whiter,  139,  140 
Whitgift,  32 

Whiting,  123,  125,  133,  164, 
325,  333,  382,  404 
Whitmore  362 
Whitting,  124 
Whittington,  361 
Whitwell,  153,  154 
Whitwick,  31 
Whyter,  152 
Wichersdale,  de,  63 
Wickham,  48 
Wicks,  310 
Wightman,  285 
Wigley,  205 
Wilby,  236 
Wilbore,  127 
Wilde,  102,  105 
Wilder,  169 
Wilding,  401 
Wilkin,  169,  362 
Wilkins,  109,  110,  113 
Wilkinson,  9,  12,  362 
Wi  lies  more,  86,  105,  169 
Williams,  96,  170,  204,  205, 
308 

Williamson,  375,  380 
Willis,  Willys,  85,  86,  90, 
102,  103,  109,  112,  113,  404 
Willot,  182 
Willoughby,  313 
Willowes,  85,  86,  87,  88,  89, 
97,  103,  113 
Willson,  141 

Wilson,  152,  172,  304,  306, 
310,  315,  348,  355 
Wilton,  212 
Wine  kail,  404 

Wincoll,  17,  121,  133,  134 
Windham,  185 

Wingfield,  5,  8,  158,  160, 
202,  224,  240,  253,  283 
Wink,  334 
Winkefild,  46 
Winter,  403 
Winterflood,  119 
Winthrop,  151,  152,  370,  381 
Wiseman,  143,  166,  208,  216, 
220,  263,  265 
Wither,  274 
Witherby,  272 


INDEX  NOMINUM. 


425 


Withered,  5,  12 
Withypol,  354 
Wodehouse,  sps  Woodhouse 
Wolnaugh.  loti,  305) 

Wolrieh,  146,  147 
VVolverton,  130 
Womack,  232,  237 
Wood,  117,  133,  134,  270,  312 
Woodall,  236 

Woodcock.  9.  12,  13,  266 
Woodford,  362 
Woodgate,  36,  37,  83,  138, 
139,  140,  149,  150,  151 
Wood  hall,  191,  192 
Woodhouse,  174.  175,  194, 
203,  206,  208,  255 


Woods,  330 

Woodshaw,  211,  212,  213 
Woodstock,  E.  of,  175 
Woodthorpe,  221,  358,  360 
Wood  vi  lie,  316 
Woodward,  150,  310,  318 
Wooley,  347 
Worlledge,  97 
Wormegay.  de,  173 
Wormley,  230 
Worth,  401 
Wotton,  173 
Wragge,  139,  152,  294 
Wren,  256,  333 
Wright,  85,  145,  151,  159, 
160,  169,  204,  253,  256, 


258,  314,  327,  351,  395,  ! 

396,  399 

Wyc’estr,  de,  1,  60 
Wyche,  252,  255 
Wychingham,  265 
Wydeviile,  316 
Wye,  128 
Wylde,  102 
Wyles,  211 
Wyllasham,  77 
Wylleston,  290 
Wyncol,  17 
Wvnde.  257 
Wvnke,  288 
Wvsbych.  386,  400 
Wythe,  278 


Wytherby,  271 
Wyverston,  de,  61,  63,  75 
Wyvill,  de,  78 


Yatman,  318 
Yaxley.  265 

Yaxley,  als.  Herberd,  25 
Yelverton,  174 
Yetts,  382 

Yonge,  90,  102,  166,  204, 
206,  208,  215,  221,  222,  242, 
256 

Yorke,  9,  13,  328,  354 
Young,  see  Yonge 


* 


1 


J 


v-  ' 

;*  r  ■  i 

-  ■J'- 

'  J  ji 


r~t 


••A 


