X: 


■\ 


/ 


VOL.  I 


PART  l. 


Suffolk  Manorial  Families, 


BEING 


County  (ptetfaftone  anb  of$er  (pefctgree0, 


EDITED ,  WITH  EXTENSIVE  ADDITIONS , 


BY 


JOSEPH  JAMES  MUSKETT, 

Corresponding  Member  of  the  Historic  Genealogical  Society  of  New  England. 


It  is  the  Editor’s  desire  to  make  this  work  an  exhaustive  resume  of  the  Genealogy  of  the 
Shire.  It  will  be  issued,  to  Subscribers  only,  in  Parts  of  forty  pages,  price  5s.  each,  and  the 
number  printed  will  be  restricted  to  250  copies.  Communications  to  be  addressed  to  the  Editor, 
care  of  J.  Muskett  Yktts,  Escp,  56,  Lincoln’s  Inn  Fields,  London. 


PRIVATELY  PRINTED. 


EXETER : 

WILLIAM  POLLARD  k  Co.,  PRINTERS  &  LITHOGRAPHERS,  NORTH  STREET. 

1894. 


; 


|'4 


Suffolk  ^Rational  j/amtltes. 


BEING 


Ci)e  Counts  (Ptsttattons  anti  otljer  ^etitgrees. 


<x 


<y  >  \ 


EDITED.  WITH  EXTENSIVE  ADDITIONS. 


BY 


JOSEPH  JAMES  MUSKETT, 

CORRESPONDING  MEMBER  OP  THE  HISTORIC  GENEALOGICAL  SOCIETY  OF  NEW  ENGLAND. 

* 


VOLUME  I. 


J 

EXETER  : 

WILLIAM  POLLARD  &  Co.  Ltd.,  PRINTERS  &  LITHOGRAPHERS,  NORTH  STREET. 

1900. 


PRI  FA  TEL  Y  PRINTED. 


. 

E- 

it 


.  \~\  -  \S<n 

A  ^ , «  r 


■  -m 


*  „  »  • 

«  •  *.  e  ti 

*  •  •  •  c  • 

•  •  •  •  *  « 


•  •  • 


•  • 


•  •• 


_ 


PREFACE. 


The  leading  idea  of  the  present  work  is  to  give  the  pedigrees,  carefully  elaborated 
from  contemporary  documents,  of  every  notable  family  seated  in  Suffolk  before  the  era 
of  the  Georges,  together  with  abstracts  of  some,  at  any  rate,  of  the  wills  and  other 
evidences  upon  which  these  pedigrees  are  based.  It  is  not  pretended  that  these  genealogies 
are  exhaustive  or  absolutely  free  from  error,  but  they  have  been  put  together,  with 
infinite  pains,  after  years  of  preliminary  research.  For,  before  a  line  of  them  had  been 
printed,  some  twenty  thousand  of  the  Suffolk  wills  at  Bury,  Ipswich,  Norwich,  Lambeth, 
and  Somerset  House  had  been  noted  in  abstract  and  elaborately  indexed ;  the  Suffolk 
pedigrees  in  the  Heralds’  Visitations,  and  the  Harleian  and  other  Manuscripts  had  been 
copied  and  collated ;  the  leading  features  of  vast  numbers  of  Suffolk  Chancery  Proceed¬ 
ings,  chiefly  of  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  had  been  jotted  down  in  the 
form  of  brief  summaries ;  whilst  the  gossipping  collections  of  local  antiquaries  of  the 

Stuart  period,  such  as  Ryece,  D’Ewes,  Candler  and  Blois,  had  been  studied,  and  in  part 
transcribed  for  future  use.  It  need  scarcely  be  added  that  the  folios  of  Davy  and  the 
Jermyn  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum  have  been  largely  drawn  upon  in  the  compilation 
of  the  present  Volume. 

A  full  description  of  the  various  Manuscripts  and  Records  bearing  upon  Suffolk 
Family  history  will  be  found  in  a  paper  by  the  Editor  of  this  work  in  the  East 
Anglian ,  New  Series,  Vol.  IV,  p.  17.  In  print  Suffolk  genealogy  has  been  chiefly 

represented,  hitherto,  by  the  well-planned  but  fragmentary  edition  of  Harvey’s  Visitation 
of  1561,  edited  by  Dr.  Joseph  Jackson  Howard,  Maltravers  Herald,  and  by  the  Visita¬ 

tions  of  Harvey,  Cooke,  and  Camden,  for  which,  as  for  many  another  record  of  our 
ancient  gentry,  we  are  indebted  to  the  untiring  enterprise  of  Mr.  Walter  C.  Metcalfe. 

The  magnificent  quartos  of  Gage  and  Suckling  form  an  instalment  of  that  standard  history 
of  the  County  which,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  will  eventually,  if  not  perhaps  in  our  day, 
see  the  light.  Both  works,  it  need  scarcely  be  added,  give  pedigrees  of  the  families, 
ancient  and  modern,  which  were  seated  in  the  Hundreds  of  which  they  respectively  treat. 


IV 


PREFACE. 


The  Editor  cannot  allow  this  Volume  to  issue  from  the  press  without  acknowledging 
his  obligations  to  the  many  friends  who  have  aided  him  in  his  researches  and  assisted 
in  the  publication  of  these  pages ;  to  the  Clergy  of  the  County  who  have  permitted 
him  to  consult  their  Parish  Registers ;  to  the  officials  of  the  Public  Record  Office  and 
of  the  Principal  Probate  Registry,  Somerset  House,  to  the  District  Probate  Registrars 
at  Norwich,  Ipswich,  and  Peterborough ;  and  to  Members  of  the  College  of  Arms  and 
other  kindred  institutions. 

In  particular  he  would  mention  the  names  of  His  Highness  Prince  Frederick  Duleep 
Singh,  Sir  W.  Brampton  Gurdon,  K.C.M.G.,  M.P.,  Mr.  Charles  H.  Athill,  F.S.A.,  Richmond 
Herald,  Mr.  Gery  Milner-Gibson-Cullum,  F.S.A.,  Mr.  Robert  C.  Winthrop,  jun.,  of  Boston, 
U.S.,  the  Rev.  C.  H.  Evelyn  White,  F.S.A.,  and  Mr.  James  Junius  Goodwin.  He  retains 
a  grateful  sense  of  his  indebtedness  to  the  late  Sir  Bartle  Frere,  K.C.B.,  and  the  late 
Colonel  Chester,  for  help  rendered  him  in  the  earlier  stages  of  his  researches,  when  the 
evolution  of  Suffolk  Manorial  Families  was  but  a  cherished  possibility  of  the  future. 

J.  J.  MUSKETT. 


56,  Lincoln’s  Inn  Fields, 
London. 


SCUtntlirop 


of  Proton. 


Armnral  Searings. 


The  origin  of  the  Winthrop  coat  lias  been  the  subject  of  a  variety  of  speculations,  there 
being  few  instances  of  an  animal  superposed  upon  two  or  more  chevrons.  The  earliest  known  repre¬ 
sentations  of  the  Winthrop  Arms  are  as  follows  : — 

1.  A  Confirmation,  dated  June  24,  1592,  by  William  Detheck,  Garter,  to  John  Winthrop  (then 
of  Groton  Manor,  afterward  of  Aghadowne,  co.  Cork)  of  the  “  Shield  &  Cote  of  Amies  apperteyning  to 
his  Name  and  Ancestors,”  namely,  Argent,  three  chevrons  gules  crenelles,  over  all  a  lion  rampant 
sable  armed  and  langued  azure  ;  with  the  crest  of  a  hare  ppr.  running  on  a  mount  vert.  The  original 
Confirmation,  with  the  signature  and  seal  of  Detheck  is  still  in  existence,  together  with  what  appears 
to  be  a  duplicate  of  it,  but  without  a  seal. 

2.  An  emblazoned  pedigree  on  parchment,  illustrating  the  alliance  of  Winthrop  and  Forth  in 
1605,  and  signed,  “Scrutavi,  Ricardus  Sl  George,  A0  domini  1"  Martii  1610.” 

3.  The  Visitation  of  Suffolk  in  1612  ;  and  Harl.  MS.,  No.  1820,  which  apparently  formed 
part  of  the  note-book  of  that  Visitation.  In  these  MSS.  Winthrop  impales  Still  of  Lincolnshire. 

4.  Two  armorial-seals  (one  Winthrop,  the  other  Winthrop  and  Forth)  affixed  to  letters  written, 
in  1618,  by  John  Winthrop,  then  of  Groton  Manor  and  afterward  Governor  of  Massachusetts. 

It  is  noticeable  that  these  armorial-seals  bear  the  three  chevrons  described  in  the  Confirmation, 
while  the  pedigree  of  1610  and  the  Visitation  of  1612  display  two  chevrons  only.  It  is  difficult 
to  account  for  this  discrepancy,  which  may  have  resulted  from  some  carelessness  or  misunderstanding. 
It  is  further  noticeable  that  in  the  rough  notes  of  the  Confirmation  preserved  in  the  College  of  Aims, 
and  in  the  trackings  of  the  Visitation,  the  chevrons  are  plain  and  not  embattled,  which  can  only  be 
accounted  for  by  a  similar  supposition.  Be  this  as  it  may,  the  true  arms  of  Winthrop,  as  originally 
authorized  by  the  heralds,  require  three  crenellated  chevrons,  and,  with  rare  exceptions,  they  have 
been  so  borne  by  successive  generations  of  the  family  to  the  present  time. 


2 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Confirmation  of  Arms  to  Joljn  Mintljrop,  1592. 

rfm *0  all  auii  singuler  Nobles  anb  (gentlemen  of  total  estate  tngnttg  or  iiegrec 
bearing  Jtrmes  aIEo  to  hone  these  puts  shall  come  SHiU’m  ©etljedt  also  barter 
principall  hinge  of  Jtrmes  senbeth  beto  comenbacions  Jc  greetings  fettoue  yee  that  inhercas 
by  bertne  &  yc  ancient  authority  of  my  ©fffee  from  the  (JJueeues  most  exp  mate  $  am  to  take 
gen’raU  notice  &  to  make  publiqe  beclaiacou  rcrorb  &  testimony  for  all  matters  anb  causes 
of  Jtrmes  JJebigrces  &  bescent  of  all  Jtoblemeu  &  gent  throughe  all  her  Jtlaf«fi  kingbomes 
bominions  principalities  Isles  &  probinces  'Ho  the’nb  that  like  as  some  by  their  ancient  names 
parentages  kinbrebs  Sc  bescent  arc  gcn’ally  knoUm  Sc  anciently  regestreb  in  the  recorbs  of  my 
(Office  §o  others  for  theyre  bertues  baliantnes  bignities  Sc  beserts  may  be  inorthely  approbeb  anb 
better  biscerneb  by  these  latubable  ensignes  Sc  tokens  of  honor  Sc  tuorshippe  most  necessary  to 
be  hab  Sc  nseb  in  all  ye  commenbable  acts  of  gentility.  cSthcrefore  habing  proofc  of  this  .Shiclb 
Sc  Cote  of  JUmcs  appcrteynyng  to  ye  name  anb  Ancestors  of  John  SHnilCtljrop  Csqnirc  -Sonne 
of  Jtbam  SEpnetltrop  of  ©roton  in  the  County  of  ^nffk  gent:  J  the  saib  barter  principall 
king  of  JUmes  accorbing  to  the  authority  &  custome  of  my  office  habc  thought  goob  to  beclare 
blase  Sc  exemplify  the  same  .Shielb  or  Cote  of  JUmcs  together  tote  a  Crcast  or  Cognisance 

rons 

appropriate  for  atchiebemt  to  ye  same,  biv  (Ltisri.  [?]  d’anjent  three  Chen:  Gules  Crenellex,  ober  all 
a  |£ion  rampant  Sables  armcb  Sc  langucb  Azure  Jlnb  for  his  Crcast  or  Cognisance  a  ^are  pper 
running  on  a  mount  vert  sett  upon  a  helmet  in  a  (breathe  of  his  conllors  tuf6  mantells  Sc  tassels 
as  appcarcih  in  y'6  margent.  5To  habc  ailti  to  toll)  use  anb  enjoy  the  saib  <Shielb  Sc  Cote 
of  JUmes  tuf6  yc  saib  three  Chcbcrons  Sc  the  |£ion  rampant  together  tuf&  ye  Crcast  Sc  Cognisance 
of  a  hare  pper  running  upon  a  greene  hull  Sc  cloy  pt  Sc  peril  thereof  unto  ye  to^in  namcb  John 
iSunftljt'op  gent:  &  others  yc  chilbrcn  yssue  anb  posterity  of  the  saib  ,21b am  E^Utlftljrop 
of  ©roton  of  the  sayb  County  of  <S>uff:  ©squire,  lawfully  begotten  (obserbing  their  bue  biffcrcnces) 
for  eber.  Jtnb  yf  yer  may  habc  use  Sc  bearc  ye  same  armes  Sc  crests  upon  their  <§hiclbs  Cargets 
<Stoorbs  or  ensignes  for  tour  re  or  in  yt,r  rings  signctts  &  seals  for  l ’res  $  cbibences  or  in  anb 
upon  ye,r  houses  builbings  cbiffccs  utcnsilcs  anb  liberies  or  otherwise  eyther  pagnteb  carbcb  or 
ffgureb  upon  tymber  marble  glassc  mettaU  stones  tombes  or  monuments  :  anb  finally  for  any 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


3 


other  latofttl  toarlike  or  bertitous  &  ribile  uses  &  exercises  such  as  bn  the  latoes  of  armes 

►  » 

enstome  for  gent,  appertejmeth.  JVtib  this  logout  aitu  latoful  impeDimf  or  contradiction  of  anp 
pson  or  psons.  3hl  tuitUfS  Sc  ppctnall  remembrance  Sc  testemonu  hereof  £  the  said 
prinipall  lunge  of  JUtnes  habe  to  p1'6  t’res  patent  subscribed  mp  name  $c  fastened  the  seale 
of  mp  office  endorsed  b)f®  pe  signet  of  mp  JUmes  lTC0ltnt  [sic!]  at  the  office  of  JUmcs  |L‘ondoit 
^he  24  dap  of  June  in  the  xxxiij  peace  of  pe  reigne  of  our  <Sobercignc  ^£adn  (JTltjalictf)  bp 
the  grace  of  (§>ot)  <®uecnc  of  (England  Jfrancc  Sc  Ereland  defender  of  the  faith. 

1592 

WILLM.  DETHECK  HARTER 
principall-  hinge  off  Arms. 


H'atht  fstogm,  1498-1623. 

Internal  evidence  shows  the  so-called  “  Latin  Pedigree  ”  of  Winthrop  (1498-1623)  to  have 
been  chiefly  compiled  by  the  third  Adam  Winthrop  (d.  1623),  a  fragment  of  whose  Diary  (1595-1610) 
is  printed  in  the  “  Life  and  Letters  of  John  Winthrop.”  The  original  record  is  not  in  existence,  but 
the  following  is  taken  from  a  copy,  in  the  handwriting  of  John  Winthrop,  F.E.S.,  when  a  young  man, 
which  is  believed  to  date  from  1705  : — 

Non  longo  a  Newarke  super  Trent  cst  quidam  vicus  appellatus  Winthorpe  (vulgo  Winthrop) 
ox  quo  Winthropi  de  Groton  in  com.  Suffolciae  nomen  et  originem  siunn  habuerunt.1 

....  Adamus  Winthropus  de  [Groton  in  comitatu  Suffolciae  armiger  &  dominus  mannerii  de 
Groton]2  natus  fuit  in  ...  . 

....  Anno  domini  ....  Adamus  Winthropus  uxorem  duxit  Joane  Burton  Alia  D:  Burton.3 

1498.  Anno  domini  1498  et  anno  Regni  regis  Henrici  Septimi  decimo  quarto,  die  nono  Octobr 
in  oppido  Lannamiae4 *  in  comitatu  Suffolciae,  Adamus  filius  suns  primogenitus  natus  fuit,  viz.,  uno 
anno  post  preliii  apud  Blackheath  held. 


1  This  paragraph  is  suspected  to  have  been  an  interpolation  of  the  copyist,  who  may  have  chosen  this  method 
for  chronicling  what  was  undoubtedly  an  ancient  family  tradition.  The  will  of  a  William  Wynethorpe,  of  Wynethorpe, 
co.  Notts,  was  proved  May  4,  1445,  and  in  it  is  mention  of  a  son  Robert,  but  there  is  no  proof  that  the  Suffolk 
Wintlirops  descend  from  either  of  them. 

2  The  words  in  brackets  are  believed  to  have  been  an  interpolation  of  the  copyist.  The  third  Adam  W.  must  have 
known  that  the  manor  of  Groton  was  acquired  by  his  father,  and  not  by  his  grandfather.  There  is  no  proof  that  the 
first  Adam  W.  was  of  Groton,  or  that  he  was  entitled  to  be  styled  armiycr.  A  pedigree  dated  1742  calls  him  “Serjeant- 
at-law,”  but  there  is  no  evidence  of  this,  and  it  is  very  improbable. 

3  The  pedigree  of  1742  (very  unreliable)  styles  her  widow  of  L>!  Burton  and  dau.  and  co-heir  of  Dt  Burnell. 

4  Lavenham,  pronounced  Lannam  in  Suffolk. 

B2 


4 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


....  Anno  domini  ....  Adainus  Wiuthrop  cum  gravissimo  morbo  expiravit. 

....  Anno  domini  ....  Joane  Winthrop  uxor  Adami  Winthrop  e  vita  excessit. 

1515.  Anno  quinto  decimo  supra  millessimum  quingentessimum  et  anno  regni  Regis  Henrici 
octavi  nono,  Adamus  Winthrop  Londinum  venit  et  se  apprenticum  cum  Edwardo  Altam1  per  decimum 
obligavit. 

1526.  Anno  domini  1526  Adamus  Winthrop  admissus  fuit  in  libertatem  civitatis  London : 
et  juratus  tempore  Johannis  Allein  majoris  et  Johannis  Husae  camerarii  ejusdem  civitatis,  viz.,  nono 
Septembr  anno  regni  Regis  Henrici  octavi  decimo  octavo  et  anno  aetatis  suae  vicessimo  octavo. 

1527.  Anno  domini  1527  decimo  sexto  die  novembris  et  anno  regni  regis  Henrici  octavi 
decimo  nono,  uxorem  primam  duxit  Aliciam  Henny  honestis  parentibus  natam. 

1528.  Anno  domini  1528  octavo  die  novembris  Thomas  suus  filius  primogenitus  natus  fuit,  qui 
obiit  mense  Aprilis  anui  proxime  sequeutis. 

1529.  Anno  domini  1529  decimo  secundo  die  novembris  Wilhelmus  filius  ejus  secundus  natus 

fuit. 

1530.  Anno  domini  1530  Brigitta  filia  sua  primogenita  vero  die  januarii  nata  fuit. 

1531.  Anno  domini  1531  quarto  die  januarii  Ohristoferus  filius  ejus  tertius  Londini  natus  fuit, 
et  obiit  in  parochia  de  Stocke  in  comitatu  Essexiae  cum  nonum  mensem  aetatis  suae  appuliset,  anno 
regni  regis  Henrici  octavi  vicessimo  tertio. 

1533.  Anno  domini  1533  vicesimo  die  junij  anno  regni  regis  Henrici  octavi  vicessimo  quinto  et 
pentecostes  feria  secunda,  Thomas  secundus  ejus  nominis  et  quartus  filius  suus  natus  fuit  Londini,  quo 
vero  die  D.  Anna  Bollena  Regina  Angliae  coronata  est. 

-  Eodem  anno  1533  vicessimo  quinto  die  januarij  et  anno  regni  regis  Henrici  octavi 

vicessimo  quinto,  Alicia  uxor  ejus,  exqua  illi  nati  sunt  filii  quatuor  et  una  filia,  Londini  obijt.  Vixit 
cum  ilia  sex  annos  duos  menses  et  quinq:  dies. 

1534.  Anno  domini  1534  vicesimo  die  julij  anno  regni  regis  Henrici  octavi  vicessimo  sexto 
Adamus  Winthrop  anno  aetatis  suae  tricessimo  sexto,  Agnetem  Sharpe  filia  D:  Roberti  Sharpe  de 
Islingtona  in  comitatu  Middlesexiae  generosi,  puellam  annum  decimum  octavum  agentem,  in  uxorem 
secundam  duxit. 

1536.  Anno  domini  1536  mense  vero  januarij  anno  regni  regis  Henrici  octavi  vicessimo 
octavo  Brigitta  filia  sua  postquam  annum  sextum  aetatis  suae  appulisset,  obijt. 

1537.  Anno  domini  1537  et  anno  regni  regis  Henrici  octavi  vicessimo  nono  Thomas  ejus  4: 
filius  postquam  annum  quartum  aetatis  suae  complevisset,  Islingtonae  obijt. 

1539.  Anno  domini  1539  decimo  quinto  die  Novembris  et  anno  regni  regis  Henrici  octavi 
tricessimo  primo,  Alicia  filia  sua  primogenita  ex  Agnete  uxore  sua  cum  jam  illi  annos  quinos  quinq: 
menses  et  octo  dies  nupta  fuisset,  nata  est. 

1543.  Anno  domini  1543  Brigitta  filia  sua  altera  ex  Agnete  uxore  genita,  tertio  die  Maij 
ascentionis  domini  festo  celebrato  anno  regni  regis  Henrici  octavi  tricessimo  quinto,  nata  fuit. 

1  Edward  Altham,  a  leading  Clothworker,  Sheriff  of  London  in  1531. 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


5 


-  Hoc  anno  1543  Adamus  Winthrop  incarceratus  est  in  le  fleete,  eo  quod  cum  alienigenis 

negotiatus  fuerit  contra  Regis  edictum,  ibiq:  detentus  donee  600lb  ad  fiscam  regiam  solutus  sit. 

1544.  Anno  domini  1544  primp  die  martij  et  anno  regni  regis  Henri ci  octavi  tricessimo 
sexto  Mariam  tertiam  filiam  uxor  illi  peperit.1 

1546.  Anno  domini  1546,  vicessimo  die  januarij  anno  regni  regis  Henrici  octavi  tricessimo 
octavo  et  anno  aetatis  suae  quadragessimo  octavo,  Johannem  et  Adamum  gemellos  uno  partu  uxor 
peperit  quoq:  junior  infra  6:  menses  obijt. 

1548.  Anno  domini  1548  decimo  die  augusti  anno  regni  regis  Edwardi  sexti  secundo,  Adamus 
alter  filius  ejus  natus  fuit  in  Londini  urbem  in  parochia  S4  Peters  in  via  vocata  gracious  [Gracechurch], 
quo  vero  anno  Adamus  Winthrop  ab  Edwardo  rege  armigeram  regio  suo  scripto  et  sigillo  inscribitur.2 

1550.  Anno  domini  1550  decimo  septimo  die  maij  et  anno  regni  regis  Edwardi  sexti  quarto 
Katherina  quarta  ejus  filia  nata  fuit.3 

1552.  Anno  domini  1552  decimo  die  decembris  Susanna  quinta  ejus  filia  nata  fuit  anno  regis 
Edwardi  sexti  sexto. 

1562.  Anno  domini  1562  nono  die  novembri  et  anno  regni  Elizabethae  Reginae  quarto,  dictus 
Adamus  Winthrop  cum  gravissimo  morbo  laborasset  et  anno  aetatis  suae  sexagesimo  quarto  e  vita 
excessit,  et  in  parochiae  Ecclesia  de  Groton  consepultus  est.  Yir  pius  et  verae  religionis  amans. 

1565.  Anno  domini  1565  decimo  tertio  die  Maij,  anno  regni  Reginae  Elizabethae  septimo  et 
anno  aetatis  suae  quadragesimo  octavo,  Agnes  uxor  secundus  Adami  Winthrop  in  Springfield  in 
comitatu  Essexiae  obijt  et  in  chancell:  de  ecclesia  Springfield  consepulta  est.  Post  mortem  Adami 
Winthrop  nupta  fuisset  Gulielmo  Mildmay  de  Springfield  in  comitatu  Essexiae  generoso.4  Foemina 
preclaris  condecorata  donis. 

1574.  Anno  domini  1574  decimo  sexto  die  decembris  et  anno  regni  Reginae  Eliz:  decimo 
sexto,  aetatis  suae  vicesimo  sexto  et  quarto  menses,  Adamus  Winthrop  nuptus  fuit  Aliciae  Still 
uxor  ejus  primus,  filia  D:  Johannis  Still  de  Lincolnshire  et  soror  Doctoris  Johannes  Still  magister, 
collegii  sauctae  trinitatis  Cantabrigiae.  The  saide  Alice  died  in  childbed,  being  delivered  of  a  sonne 
which  was  born  dead  the  24  day  of  december  an:  1577,  in  the  20  yere  of  Qu:  Eliz:  and  lieth  buried 
in  Hadley  churche.  Protinus  aeterno  mittit  utrumque  Deo. 

1578.  Anno  domini  1578  secundo  die  junij  Elizabetha  uxor  Wilhelmus  Winthrop  in  Kent 
obijt,  ex  qua  illi  nati  sunt  3  filii  et  2  filiae,  nomina  Joshua,  Adam,  William,  Elizabeth  and  Sarah.5 

1  It  was  in  this  year  1544  that  he  acquired  Groton  Manor.  The  daughter  Mary,  of  whom  there  is  no  further 

mention  in  this  record,  is  stated  to  have  married,  1,  William  Celie,  of  London,  haberdasher  ;  2,  Abraham  Veysey,  of 

Ipswich,  yeoman.  She  is  repeatedly  referred  to  in  her  brother’s  diary  as  “  my  sister  Veysey.” 

2  In  the  margin  of  this  entry  are  inserted  the  words  “  on  fryday,”  evidently  the  day  of  the  week  on  which  the 
birth  occurred. 

a  She  is  not  mentioned  in  her  father’s  will,  and  undoubtedly  died  in  childhood.  It  was  about  this  time  that  he 
became  Master  of  the  Clothworkers  Company  of  London,  of  which  he  had  long  been  a  prominent  member. 

*  The  date  of  this  marriage  was  June  7,  1563,  as  entered  in  the  Groton  Registers. 

5  Unless  some  portion  of  the  record  is  missing,  the  writer  omitted  to  enter  the  marriage  of  his  brother  William, 

whose  wife  is  stated  to  have  been  the  dau.  of  ...  Norwoode  of  Kent.  Nor  does  he  appear  to  have  subsequently 

chronicled  the  marriages  of  four  of  his  brother  William’s  children,  with  whom  he  was  on  terms  of  intimacy  and  who  are 
mentioned  in  his  diary. 


6 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


1579.  Adam  Wiuthrop  was  married  to  Anne  my  secoude  wife,  the  daughter  of  Henry 
Browne,  of  Edwardston,  clothier,  the  20:  day  of  ffebruary  1579  in  the  22:  yere  of  the  reigne  of  Queue 
Elizabeth.1 * 3 

1581.  Anne  the  first  daughter  of  Adam  Wiuthrop  A  Anne  his  wife  was  born  on  fryday  being 
the  5  daie  of  January  anno  1581  in  the  24:  yere  of  Qu:  Eliz:  and  died  the  20  daie  of  the  same  month. 

-  Anno  domini  1581  primo  die  Martij  Wilhelmus  Wiuthrop  tilius  Adami  Winthrop  et 

Aliciae  uxor  ejus  primus,  Londini  obiit  anno  regni  Keginae  Elizabethae  vicesimo  (piarto.  Vir  sine 

fraude  bonus  et  pietatis  amans.- 

1585.  Anne  the  second  daughter  of  Adam  Winthrop  and  Anne  his  wife  was  born  iii 
Edwardston  on  Sunday  aboute  10  of  the  olocke  in  the  eveuynge  beinge  the  16  daye  of  january  anno 

1585  in  the  28  yere  of  the  reigne  of  Qu:  Eliz:  A  in  the  37  yere  of  my  age. 

1587.  Johannes  Winthrop  filius  Adami  Winthrop  de  Groton  in  comitatu  Suffolciae  armigeri  et 

Annae  uxor  ejus,  natus  fuit  in  Edwardston  decimo  secundo  die  januarij  1587  et  anno  regni  reginae 
Elizabethae  30:  on  thursday  aboute  5:  of  the  clocke  in  the  morninge. 

—  John  the  only  sonne  of  Adam  Winthrop  A  Anne  his  wife  was  borne  in  Edwardston 

aforesaide  on  Thursday  about  5  of  the  clocke  in  the  morninge,  the  12  daie  of  january  1587  in  the 
30  yere  of  the  reigne  of  Qu:  Eliz::j 

1590.  Anno  domini  1590  the  17  of  December  Agnes  Browne  the  mother  of  Anne  his  wife  died. 
Foemina  quae  Christum  corde  gerebat  herum. 

t 

1592.  Jane  the  tliirde  daughter  of  Adam  Winthrop  and  Anne  his  wife  was  borne  in 

Edwardston  on  Wednesday  betwene  the  houres  of  one  and  two  in  the  morninge,  beinge  the  14:  daie 
of  June  anno  1592  and  the  34:  yere  of  Queene  Elizabeth.  In  the  yere  1612,  5  of  january,  she  was 
married  to  Thomas  Gostlin  by  whome  she  had  sons  A  daughters  nominatim  :  Anne,  Jane,  Steven, 
Mary. 

1600.  Lucy  my  4  daughter  was  borne  in  Groton  on  fryday  in  the  morninge:  9:  of  january 
anno  1600  and  in  the  43:  yere  of  Qu:  Eliza:  and  in  the  52:  yere  A  5  month  of  my  age  and  in 

the  41:  yere  of  the  age  of  Anne  her  mother.4 

1604.  Anno  domini  1604  nono  die  augusti  Susanna  filia  Adami  Winthrop  et  Agnetae  uxor 
ejus  secundus  in  Coventry  obijt,  anno  aetatis  suae  quinquagesimo  secundo.  Nupta  fuisset  D:  Cottie5  .  . . 

1  The  words  “  my  seconde  wife  ”  and  similar  expressions  later,  on  seem  clearly  to  establish  the  authorship  of  the 

third  Adam  W.,  who  probably  copied  many  of  the  earlier  entries  from  his  father’s  papers. 

3  This  William  Winthrop  is  stated  to  have  been  an  active  supporter  of  the  Reformed  Faith,  and  a  letter  of  his 
to  John  Foxe,  the  Martyrologist,  is  printed  in  the  Proceedings  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society  for  1877.  He  was 
at  one  time  Churchwarden  of  St.  Michael’s,  Cornhill,  the  registers  of  which  parish  contain  the  baptisms  of  most  of  his 
children. 

3  These  two  entries  relating  to  the  same  person  (afterward  the  great  Puritan  leader  and  Governor  of  the 
Massachusetts  Bay  Colony)  suggest  that  the  copyist  of  1705  may  have  had  two  documents  before  him,  one  of  them, 
perhaps  an  almanac.  There  exist  thirteen  almanacs  containing  entries  by  the  third  Adam  W.,  but  the  earliest  is  of  1599. 

*  She  died  in  1679,  having  in  1622  become  the  second  wife  of  Emmanuel  Downing  of  the  Inner  Temple,  by 

whom  she  had  several  children,  one  of  whom  was  the  celebrated  Sir  George  Downing,  Bart.  For  some  interesting 
letters  of  her’s  see  Winthrop  Papers,  Part  III.  (5  Mass.  Hist.  Coll,  i.) 

5  Believed  to  have  been  Dr.  John  Cotta,  author  of  a  book  on  Witchcraft. 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


7 


1605.  Anno  domini  1605  decimo  sexto  aprilis  Johannes  Winthrop  in  uxorem  primam  duxit 
Mariam  filia  unigenita  Johannis  fforthe  de  Magna  Stambridge  in  comitatu  Essexiae  sex^ns  filius  Gulielmi 
fforthe  de  Butley  abbey  in  Suffolke. 

-  Anno  domini  1605  duodecimo  die  febra:  Johannes  filius  suns  primogenitus  in  Groton 

in  comitatu  Suffolciae  natus  fuit  quarto  die  Septemb1'  circa  5:  horologii  in  manu,  et  baptizatus  fuit 
vicesimo  tertio  die  sequente.1 

1607.  Anno  domini  1607  octavo  die  novembris  Alicia  filia  Adami  Winthrop  et  Agnetae  uxor 
ejus  secundus  anno  aetatis  suae  sexagesimo  octavo  obijt.  Cujus  erat  vita  vitae  medulla  meae.  N upta 
fuisset  1563:  Thomae  Mildmaye  Eq:  Aurat:  ex  qua  illi  nati  sunt  William,  Francis,  George,  Henrie, 
Tomas.2 

1613.  Anno  domini  1613  vicesimo  sexto  julij  Johannes  Winthrop  filius  Adami  Winthrop  et 
Agnetce  uxor  ejus  secundus  in  Ireland  obijt,  anno  aetatis  suae  sexagesimo  sexto  et  7:  menses.  Qui 
sibi  neque  mihi  utilis  vita  fuit,  qui  mihi  frater  durus  tempore  mortis  erat.  Nuptus  fuisset  1566: 
Elizabethae  Rysby  filia  D:  Itoberti  Rysby  de  Thorpe  in  comitatu  Suffolciae.3 

1614.  Anno  domini  1614  quarto  die  novembris  Brigitta  filia  Adami  Winthrop  et  Agnetae  uxor 
ejus  secundus  in  Tharfield  in  Hertfordshire  obijt  anno  aetatis  suae  septuagesimo  secundo.  Nupta  fuisset 
D:  Rogerio  Alibaster  ex  qua  illi  nati  sunt  George,  John,  Tomas,  Sara,  William.4 5 

1619.  Anno  domini  1619  vicesimo  die  maij  et  anno  regni  regis  Jacobi  decimo  septem  Anna 
filia  Adami  Winthrop  et  Annae  uxor  ejus  expiravit  anno  aetatis  suae  33  :  annos  quatuor  menses  et 
octo  dies  et  intra  mediam  ecclesiae  parochialis  Sk  Sepulchers  Londino  consepulta  est.  Anno  aetatis 
suae  20  :  nupta  fuisset  Thomae  Fones  farmacopola  Londini  qui  moerens  liaec  scripsit,  Ex  qua  illi 
nati  sunt  2  filii  et  5  filiae.  [Then  follow  some  Latin  verses  by  Fones  in  memory  of  his  wife,  which 
appears  to  have  been  imperfectly  copied.] 

1623.  Anno  domini  1623  Adamus  Winthrop  filius  junior  Adami  Winthrop  et  Agnetae  uxor 
ejus  secundus  in  Groton  in  comitatu  Suffolciae  hanc  vitam  transmigravit  aetatis  suae  75  :  et  sine 
ecclesia  consepultus  est.  Vir  bonus  et  prudens,  nulli  pietate  secundus.  Anna  uxor  ejus  e  vita 
excessit  1629  :  et  consepulta  est  cum  marito.  Foemina  quae  Christo  tota  dictata  fuit.0 

1  This  was  the  John  Winthrop  so  well  known  in  New  England  history  as  “John  Winthrop  the  younger,” 
long  Governor  of  Connecticut  and  one  of  the  most  active  of  the  early  members  of  the  Royal  Society.  For  numerous 
letters  of  his  see  Winthrop  Papers,  Part  IV.  (5  Mass.  Hist.  Coll,  viii.) 

2  This  list  of  children  is  partly  illegible.  Sir  Thomas  Mildmay  was  son  of  the  William  Mildmay,  of  Springfield, 
before-mentioned,  and  his  son  Henry  became  Sir  Henry  Mildmay  of  Graces,  a  distinguished  soldier  of  the  Irish  wars. 

3  This  John  Winthrop  became  one  of  the  promoters  of  the  Carbery  plantation  in  the  south  of  Ireland,  acquiring 
an  estate  at  Aghadowne,  co.  Cork,  and  eventually  disposing  of  his  life-interest  in  Groton  Manor  to  his  brother  and 
nephew.  He  was  long  separated  from  his  wife,  from  whom  he  took  steps  to  obtain  a  divorce,  and  in  his  old  age  claimed 
to  have  married  secondly  Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Thomas  Powlden,  of  Rathgogan,  co.  Cork,  to  whom  and  to  whose  children 
he  devised  his  property,  to  the  chagrin  of  his  relations  in  .Suffolk.  His  son  by  his  first  marriage  died  in  boyhood, 
and  his  natural  son,  John  Winthrop,  younger  of  Aghadowne,  died  there  unmarried  in  1681.  His  executrix  and  alleged 
widow  married  Thomas  Nott,  one  of  the  promoters  of  the  Carbery  plantation.  The  first  wife,  Elizabeth  Rysby,  married 
secondly  one  Reynold  Brauncli,  of  St.  Saviour’s,  Southwark,  the  licence  in  the  Bishop  of  London’s  Court  being  dated 
8  July,  1617.  A  letter  from  Brampton  Gttrdon  to  Gov.  John  Winthrop  in  New  England  alludes  to  her  death  at 
Southwark  in  1637. 

4  The  last  named  became  the  poet  and  dramatist,  William  Alabaster,  D.D, 

5  In  these  two  instances  the  precise  date  is  not  given,  but  Adam  W.  is  known  to  have  been  buried  March  28, 
1623,  and  his  widow  to  have  died  April  19,  1629. 


8 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


The  so-called  Latin  pedigree  of  the  third  Adam  Winthrop  ends  here,  and  it  seems  reasonable 
to  assume  that  the  copyist  of  1705  did  not  have  before  him  the  record  in  its  entirety,  as  it  contains 
no  mention  of  the  deaths  of  the  writer’s  daughters-in-law,  or  the  second  and  third  marriages  of  his 
son,  or  the  births  of  any  of  his  son’s  younger  children.  The  following  five  references  to  some  of 
these  events  are  taken  from  the  diary  and  almanacs  already  alluded  to : — 

1607.  The  xxth  of  Jan.  my  sonnes  second  sonne  Henry  was  Christened  at  Groton.  Mr  Sands 
A  my  b.  Snelling  were  his  godfathers. 

1609.  Dec:  30:  Forthe  Winthrop  was  born. 

1618.  On  fryday  the  24th  of  Aprill  my  sonnes  [third]  wife  came  first  to  Groton.  She  was 
maried  to  him  the  \torn]  day  of  the  same  moneth  at  Greate  Maplested  in  Essex. :: 

1618  [1619].  The  24:  daye  of  Marche  in  the  yere  of  our  Lord  1618  Stephen  Winthrop  was 
born.  The  Ladye  Anne  Tyndal  was  his  godmother  and  M1'  Steven  Egerton  her  brother  &  Mr  Deane 
Tindal  her  son  were  his  godfathers. 

1620.  Adam  Winthrop  the  second  sonne  of  John  Winthrop  Esquire  and  Mai'garet  his  third 
wife  was  borne  in  Groton  on  frydaie  ye  seventh  daie  of  ye  moneth  of  April  in  the  yere  of  our 
Lorde  one  thousand  sixe  hundred  and  twentie  and  in  ye  beginninge  of  ye  18:  yere  of  the  reigne  of 
our  Sovereigne  Lord  Kinge  James.  He  was  baptised  by  Mr  Nicholson  ye  parson  of  Groton  and  named 
Adam  by  Adam  Winthrop  his  grandfather,  Philip  Goslin  the  elder,  Jane  Goslin  his  fathers  sister,  & 
Mary  Cole  the  wife  of  Joseph  Cole,  who  were  his  godfathers  &  godmothers. 


3  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Tyndal.  Many  of  her  letters  are  printed  in  the  “  Life  and  Letters  of  John 
Winthrop.” 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


9 


(Bmblapn^  1610* 

The  so-called  “Emblazoned  Pedigree,”  attested  by  Richard  St.  George,  1  March  1610,  is  in  the  possession  of  the  heirs  of 
the  late  Thomas  Charles  Winthrop,  Esq.,  of  New  York.  It  is  so  faded  and  discoloured,  through  process  of  time,  that  the 
tinctures  of  the  escutcheons  cannot  always  be  given  with  certainty.  The  arms  attributed  to  Sharpe  of  Islington  and  Browne 
of  Edwardstone  do  not  appear  to  have  been  recorded  in  the  Herald’s  College. 

Chest  of  Fokthe  : — A  bear’s  head  sable,  muzzled  or. 


Adam  Winthrop  of  Groton  in  Com.  of  Stiff :  Married 
Jane  Burton  ye  Daught.  of  ...  Jr  had  issue. 

Arms  : — Argent  two  chevrons  crenelle  gules  : 
over  all  a  lion  rampant  sable. 


Robert  forth  of  Hadley  in  Com.  Suff:  Married 
...ye  Daughter  of  Odiam  of  London. 

Arms  : — Gules  two  bends  vaire  arg.  &  sable  :  on  a  canton 
or  a  demi-greyhound  couped  courant  of  the  third. 


Adam  Winthrop  of  Groton  in  Com.  Suff:=f=Agnis  ye  Daughter  of  Robt.  Sharpe 


son’ e  Jk  heire  of  Adam  Maried 


of  1 slinton  in  the  Coun.  of  Middlesex 
and  had  issue. 


Will’m :  forthe  of  Hadley  in- 
ye  Coun.  of  Suff:  Armi.  sone 
it  heire  of  Robert  Maried 


Arms  : — Winthrop,  impaling  Sharpe  :  ?  Or  three  phsoons  sable. 


-Elizabethe  the  Daughter  Jr  heire 
of  Powell  of  Wales  Jr  had 
issue  John  6th  sone. 


Adam  Winthrop  of =j= Alee  the  Daughter 
Groton  in  Suff :  ye  2d  ' 
sone  of  Adam  Win- 
throp  maried  to  his 
■first  viyfe. 


of  John  Still  of 
Lincolnshire  Jr  had 
no  issue  Jr  to  his 
second  wyfe. 


A  rms : — Winthrop,  impaling 
Still  :  sable  gutte  d’eau 
three  roses  argent. 


Arms :  — Winthrop,  impaling 
Browne  :  Ermines  on  a  chief 
argent  three  roundels  gules. 


Arms  : — Forthe,  impaling  Powell :  per  pale  azure  &  gules 
three  lions  rampant  arg.  :  quartering  Brokenspear, 
Gwaringdu,  Morley  and  Vaughan. 


-Ann  the  Daughter 
of  Henry  Browne 
of  Edwardston  in 
Com.  of  Suff:  and 
had  issue. 


John  Winthrop  of  Groton 
in  Suff:  sone  Jr  heire  of 
Adam,  Mar.  Elizabeth  ye 
dau:  of  Rob:  Risby  of 
Thorp  in  Suff. 


John  forth  of  Stanbridye^Thomasine  the  Daughter 


in  Essex  ye  6th  sone  of 
Will,  forth  of  Hadley  in 
Com.  of  Suff :  Maried. 


Arms  : — Winthrop,  impaling  Risby  : 
Sa.  a  cross  or  voided  between  four 
griffins  segreant  of  the  second. 


of  Hilles  in  the  Com.  of 
Essex  Jr  had  issue  one 
onely  Daughter. 


Arms  : — Forthe,  quartering  Powell, 
Brokenspear,  Gwaringdu,  Morley 
&  Vaughan  :  impaling  - 


Ann  eldest  Daughter 
mar:  to  Thomas 
fanes  of  London. 

I 

Arms :  - im¬ 


paling  Winthrop. 


Jane  ye  second  daughr 
Maried  to 


Arms  : 


paling  Winthrop. 


Luce  ye  third  daughter 
Maried  to 


Arms  :  - im 

paling  Winthrop. 


John  Winthrop  of  Groton=f=Mary  ye  daugh:  and  heire  of  John  forth 


sone  Jr 
Maried 


heire  of  Adam 


of  Stanbridge 
<b  had  issue. 


in  ye  Count/  of  Essex 


Arms  Winthrop,  impaling  Forthe  quartering  Powell, 
Brokenspear,  Gwaringdu,  Morley  &  Vaughan. 


Henry  Winthrop  the  second  of  John.  John  sone  Jr  heire  apar ant.  forth  ye  third  sone  of  John  Winthrop. 

I.  I  I. 

Winthrop  quartering  Forthe,  &c.  Winthrop  quartering  Forthe,  &c.  V  inthrop  quartering  Forthe,  &c. 


Scrutavi  Ricardus  St  George  A0  domini  7°  Marti j  1610. 


At  foot,  achievement  of  John  Winthrop  :  quarterly  of  eight : — 

1.  Winthrop  :  Argent  two  chevrons  crenelle  gules :  over  all  a  lion  rampant  sable. 

2.  Forthe  :  Gules  two  bends  vaire  argent  &  sable  :  on  a  canton  or  a  demi  greyhound  couped  courant  of  the  third. 

3.  Powell :  Per  pale  azure  and  gules,  three  lions  rampant  argent,  [but  query  ?  or  in  the  original.] 

4.  Brokenspear :  Argent,  on  a  cross  gules  five  mullets  or. 

5.  Gwaringdu:  Per  pale  azure  &  sable  three  fleurs-de-lis  or. 

6.  Morley  :  Argent  a  lion  rampant  sable  crowned  gules. 

7.  Vaughan  :  Sa.  three  boys’  heads  couped  at  the  shoulders  ppr.,  crined  or  having  snakes  vert  en wrapt  around  their  necks. 

8.  Winthrop  :  as  above. 

Crest :  On  a  mount  vert  a  hare  proper  courant. 

C 


10 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ffiSmtljrop  Suffolk  JJishation,  1612. 

Taken  on  “  Saterday  ye  24  of  August,”  or  “  ye  25  of  August  1611  ”  by  John  Raven,  Richmond 
Herald,  as  deputy  to  William  Camden,  Clareneieux  King  of  Arms. 


Adam  Winthorp  of  Groton  mar:  Jone  d:  of  ...  &  had  issue  Adam  sohe  &  heire. 

Adam  sone  &  h:  mar.  Agnes  d:  of  Sharpe  &  had  issue  John  sohe  &  h:  mar:  ye  d:  of  Risby 
of  Thorpe  &  had  no  issue  :  Adam  2d  sone. 


Adam  Winthorpe  of  Groton  in  Suff:  Gent:  2d  sohe  of  Adam  mar:  to  his  first  wyfe  Alice  ya  d: 
of  Still  of  Lincolneshire  &  had  no  issue  :  he  mar:  to  his  2d  wyfe  Ann  ye  d:  of  Browne 
of  Edwardstone  in  Suff  &  by  her  hath  issue  John  sohe  &  h:  Ann  mar:  to  Thomas  Fones  t»f 
London  Gent,  Jane  &  Luce. 


John  sohe  &  h:  mar:  Mary  d:  &  h:  of  John  Forth  of 
&  he:  age  6  Henry  age  4  Forth  age  1. 


Standon  in  Essex  &  hath  issue  John  sohe 
Harl.  MS.  No.  1820,  fo.  16b. 


At  fo.  1  of  this  MS.  is  a  tricking  of  the  arms  of  “  Winthrop :”  Ar.  two  chevrons  gu.  ;  over 
all  a  lion  rampant  sa.,  impaling  Still :  Sa.  guttee  d’eau  three  roses  ar.,  with  the  note,  “  Per  Dethick, 
Garter,  ye  24  of  June  1592  both  of  them.”  At  fo.  73b  is  a  rough  drawing  of  the  crest  of  “Wintherop  :” 
On  a  mount  vert,  a  hare  courant  proper. 


In  the  corresponding  MS.  in  the  Heralds’  College,  where  the  same  arms  are  given,  the  marriage 
of  John  Winthrop  with  the  daughter  of  Risby  is  omitted.  Both  MSS.  contain  inaccuracies.  John 
was  the  second  son,  and  Adam  the  third,  of  the  second  Adam  Winthrop.  John  Forth  was  of  Great 
Stambridge.  There  is  no  evidence  whatever  of  his  alleged  connection  with  Stondon  (or  Standon)  in 
Essex,  and  it  is  unlikely.  There  are  omissions  also.  Important  matches,  as  for  example  that  of  Alice 
Winthrop  with  Sir  Thomas  Mildmay,  are  altogether  ignored.  The  pedigree  would  appear  to  have  been 
jotted  down,  somewhat  hastily,  by  Raven,  during  a  personal  interview  with  Adam  Winthrop  the 
Diarist,  or  his  son  John  Winthrop,  afterwards  the  well-known  Governor  of  Massachusetts. 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


11 


mill  of  ^fcattt  Wtntljrop,  1565. 


In  the  name  of  god  Amen.  The  xxth  daye  of  September  An0  Domini  1562,  I  Adam  Wyn  trope 
of  Groton  in  the  Countie  of  Suff,  gentleman  and  late  clothworker  and  Cittezen  of  London,  being  whole 
of  mynde  and  in  good  and  perfect  remembrance,  thanks  be  giueu  to  almightie  god,  doe  ordayne  and 
make  this  my  presente  testamente  and  laste  will  in  manner  and  forme  followinge  ;  revoking  and 
disannulling  all  other  willes  &  testaments  heretofore  by  me  made,  or  caused  to  be  made.  ffirst  I 
bequeath  my  soule  to  almightie  God,  and  my  boddie  to  be  buried  in  the  parrish  churche  yarde  of 
Groton  aforesaide.  Item,  I  doe  giue  to  the  poore  people  of  Groton  xls  to  be  giuen  and  distributed 
to  the  viost  needest 1  by  my  executors  or  Administrators.  Item  I  do  giue  vnto  John  Wyntropp  my  sonne, 
the  leace  and  whole  terme  of  yeres  of  my  maucon  house  Whereiu  I  nowe  doe  dwell,  wholy  as  I  haue 
yt  by  leace,  withall  the  buildings,  Orchardes,  gardens,  tenements  with  th’apprtenncs,  to  the  saide  John, 
to  his  heires  and  assigners.  Neverthelesse  I  will  and  giue  the  saide  leace  and  mancon  house,  withall 
the  premisses  and  all  and  singular  th’apprtenncs,  vnto  Agnes  my  wief  during  her  naturall  lief.  Item 
I  doe  giue  vnto  Agnes  my  wief  all  that  my  manuor  of  Groton  with  the  Advowson  of  the  bennefice 
there,  with  all  and  singular  wooddes,  lands  and  tennements,  courts  and  profits  of  courts  rents  and 
seruics,  with  all  and  singuler  thapprtenncs  and  commodities  whatsoeu  they  bee,  to  the  saide  mannor 
belonging,  or  in  any  wise  appertayning,  during  her  naturall  lief.  Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  the  saide 
Agnes,  during  her  naturall  lief  all  those  landes  and  tenements,  meddowes,  and  pastures  which  I 
purchased  and  had  of  Thomas  ffacon  by  exchange  or  otherwyse.  And  also  all  those  landes  and 
tennements  wliiche  I  purchased  and  had  of  John  Doget,  wth  all  those  exchanged  landes  whiche  I  had 
of  ffrauncs  Clopton  Esquire.  Item  I  doe  giue  to  the  saide  Agnes  my  wief,  during  her  natural 
lief,  all  those  landes  and  parcells  of  lande  which  I  bought  of  Rose  Boude  widdow.  And  after  the 
decease  of  the  said  Agnes,  I  will  and  giue  all  that  my  foresaide  Mannor  with  the  Advowson  of  the 
benefice  with  thapprtenn’cs  as  is  aforesaide,  And  also  all  those  landes  which  I  had  of  Thomas  ffacon 
and  of  John  Doget,  wth  also  all  those  exchanged  lands  with  Mr  Clopton,  and  also  all  those  landes  and 
pcells  of  lands  whiche  I  bought  of  Rose  Bonde  widdow,  with  all  and  singular  the'1  premisses,  vnto 
John  Wyntropp  my  sonne  and  to  his  heires  males  of  his  boddie  lawfully  begotten.  And  for  lack  of  such 
Issue  males  of  the  saide  John  lawfully  begotten,  I  will  the  saide  mannor  with  the  advowson  of  the 
bennefice,  with  all  the  other  the  premisses  with  theire  app’tenn’cs,  and  also  the  other  landes  and 
tennements,  with  the  exchanged  landes  and  other  the  premisses  with  theire  app’tenn’cs,  shalbe  and 
remay ne  vnto  Adam  Wyntrop  my  sonne,  and  to  the  heires  males  of  his  boddie  laufully  begotten. 

And  for  defalte  of  such  Issue  of  the  saide  Adam,  I  will  all  and  singular  the  premisses  with  theire 

app’tenn’cs  to  remayne  vnto  Willyam  Wyntropp  my  sonne,  and  to  his  heires  males  of  his  boddie 
laufully  begotten.  And  for  lack  of  suche  Issue  of  the  saide  Willm,  I  will .  and  giue  all  the  saide 
prmisses  with  theire  app’tenn’cs  before  rehersed,  vnto  my  fower  daughters  :  That  is  to  saye  Alice, 

Bridget,  Mary  and  Susan,  and  to  theire  heires  then  living  :  and  when  the  saide  Maunor  and  all 

th’other  premisses  shall  so  dissende  and  come,  Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  Willm  Wyntrop  my  sonne  and 
to  his  heires  all  my  landes  and  tennements,  woods  and  pastures  and  feedings,  both  free  and  coppie 
now  being  in  the  occupac’on  and  meonoring2  of  John  Tylor  of  Groton,  excepte  the  lande  called 
Lynseye  Chappell  lande  in  the  occupac’on  of  the  saide  John  Tylor.  Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  the  saide 

1  This  is  underlined,  and  “  where  most  nede  is  ”  is  written  above. 

2  Meonoring  =  manoeuvring  or  management. 

C' 


12  SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 

Willm  and  to  his  heires  all  those  landes  and  tennent8  both  free  and  coppie,  now  in  the  occupac’on  and 
meonoring  of  John  Yeamon,  which  Nicholas  Colquyn  hath  of  me  to  farme.  Item  I  doe  giue  to  the 
saide  Willm  and  to  his  heires  so  muche  of  the  landes  exchanged  with  Mr  Clopton  as  doe  lye  within  and 
to  the  farme  that  the  said  John  Yeman  occupieth.  Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  Agnes  my  wief  my 
ij  tennements  in  Churche  streete,  now  in  th’occupacon  of  John  Lyrskin  and  the  wydoe  Waspe  duiing 
her  naturall  lyef.  Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  the  saide  Agnes,  terme  of  her  lief,  my  Coppie  land  which  I 
holde  of  the  Mannor  of  Beerhouse  in  Edwardston.  And  after  her  deceace,  I  will  the  foresaide 
ij  tenements  with,  the  saide  lande  to  remayne  vnto  John  Wyntropp  and  to  his  heires  males  of  his 
boddie  laufully  begotten,  and  soe  forth,  accordingly  as  aboue,  for  defalte  of  such  Issue  of  the  saide 
John.  Item  I  doe  give  vnto  Willm  Wyntropp  my  sonne  all  my  wearing  apparrell  and  rayment  to  my 
boddie  belonging.  Item  I  doe  giue  to  the  saide  Willm  Wyntropp  and  to  his  heires  all  that  my 
landes  and  tennements,  both  free  and  coppie,  lyeng  at  Woodkerstreete  in  Boxforde,  now  in  the  vse 
and  occupac’on  of  Raufe  Aerland.1  Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  Agnes  my  wief  during  her  naturall  lief 
all  and  singuler  my  howses,  buildings,  landes  and  tennements,  pastures,  wooddes  and  feedings,  both 
free  and  coppie,  with  theire  app’tenn’cs,  now  in  the  vse  and  occupa’con  of  Nicholas  Colquyn.  And 
also  all  those  landes  and  tennements  with  theire  app’tenn’cs  in  the  vse  and  occupa’con  of  John  Warde, 
with  also  all  the  late  Chappell  of  Lynsey,  with  all  the  landes  and  tennements,  Rents,  Tythes,  fedings 
and  pastures,  with  the  keping  of  the  faire  and  the  proffits  of  the  same.  And  all  the  other  rights 
and  commodities  to  the  same  belonging.  And  also  all  those  my  other  landes  and  tennements  both 
free  and  coppie  vnbequeathed,  being  noe  pcell  nor  member  of  my  saide  Manno’,  to  the  saide  Agnes 
for  terme  of  her  lief  :  And  after  her  deceace,  I  will  and  bequeath  all  those  foresaide  landes  and 
tennements,  both  free  and  coppie  with  theire  app’tenn’cs,  in  the  occupa’con  of  the  saide  Nicholas 
Colquyn  and  John  Warde,  And  also  all  the  other  premisses  with  theire  app’tenn’cs  vnto  Adam 
Wyntropp  my  sonne  and  to  his  heires  males  of  his  boddie  laufully  begotten.  And  for  lacke  of  suche 
Issue  of  the  saide  Adam  I  will  it  vnto  John  Wyntropp  my  sonne  and  to  the  heires  males  of  his 
boddie  laufully  begotten.  And  soe  successiuely  for  defalte  of  suche  Issue  of  John  Wyntrop  vnto 
Willm  Wintrop  my  sonne  and  to  his  heires  males  of  his  boddie  laufully  begotten.  And  for  lacke 
of  such  Issue  of  the  saide  Willm,  I  will  all  the  saide  premisses  remayne  wholy  to  my  iiijor  daughters, 
That  is  to  Alice,  Bridget  Mary  and  Susan,  to  them  and  to  theire  heires,  then  and  when  the 
premiss  shall  soe  dissende  and  come,  equally  to  be  divided  betwene  them  parte  and  parte  lyke. 
Item  I  doe  giue  and  bequeath  vnto  John  Wyntropp  and  to  Adam  Wyntropp  my  sonnes,  vj1  a  peece 
at  theire  age  of  xxili  yeres,  to  be  payed  yerely  vnto  them  and  vnto  eyther  of  them  by  the  handes 
•f  Agnes  my  wief  during  her  naturall  lief.  Whiche  saide  some  I  will  yt  be  levied  and  taken  yerely 
ate  of  all  my  landes  and  tennements,  goodes  and  cattails,  bequeathed  to  Agnes  my  wief.  Item  I  doe 
giue  vnto  Alice  Wyntropp  my  daughter  threescore  and  six  poundes  thirteene  shillings  and  iiij J  which 
is  in  the  handes  of  Willm  Wyntropp  my  sonne  as  yt  appereth  by  his  bill  obligatorie.  Item  I  doe 
giue  vnto  my  daughter  Bridget  other  threescore  and  six  poundes  thirtiene  shillings  and  fower  pence 
whiche  is  also  in  the  handes  of  the  saide  Willm,  deliured  to  hym  by  my  wief,  as  also  yt  doth  appere 
by  his  bill  obligatorie  ;  whiche  saide  some  I  will  yt  be  payed  to  the  saide  Alice  and  Bridget  at  the 
daye  of  theire  marriage,  or  at  theire  seuerall  age  of  xxiij  yeres,  yf  they  be  not  married  before. 
Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  my  ij  daughters  Mary  and  Susan  to  eache  of  them  fiftie  poundes  a  peece, 
to  be  payed  to  them  by  my  executors  at  the  daye  of  theire  marriages  or  at  theire  seuerall  age 
of  xxitl  yeres,  yf  they  be  not  married  before.  And  yf  any  of  my  fower  daughters  doe  departe  this 
worlde  before  their  legacies  be  payable  by  this  my  will,  That  then  I  will  that  her  or  theire  parte 
and  parts  of  suche  as  shall  departe  be  equally  devided  emonge  the  residue  that  oulive  of  the  saide 


1  The  first  syllable  is  underlined,  and  Bud  is  written  above  it.  The  name  was,  most  probably,  Rudland 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


13 


iiijor  daughters.  Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  Thomas  Hen  all  and  singular  suche  leace  and  terme  of  yeres 
as  he  hath  of  me  by  indenture,  accordinge  to  the  purporte  and  tennure  of  the  same  Indenture  : 
And  I  will  hym  also  to  haue  yerely  other  fower  lodes  wood  towards  his  fuell  ou  and  besides  that 
whiche  is  alreddie  graunted  to  him  in  his  saide  lease.  Item  I  giue  vnto  John  Wyntropp  my  sonne 
all  suche  Implements  and  moveable  household  stuf  as  hereafter  followeth  .  ffyrst  the  Seeling  in  the 
hawle  of  wainscote  rounde  aboute  the  hall  in  my  man’coa  house,  The  wyndowes,  portalls  and  skreenes, 
a  frame  and  a  longe  table  in  the  saide  hawle.  Item  a  fetherbed  with  a  bedsteede  in  the  parlo9  wholye 
furnisshed,  the  Cupboorde  there,  all  the  shelves  iu  the  Kitchen  Buttrie  and  backhouse,  the  leade  in  the 
back  house  with  all  the  necessaries  there  groundefast  and  nayldfast,  the  presse  in  the  storehouse  and 
in  the  chamber,  all  which  premisses  I  will  them  to  John  Wyntrop  my  sonne  and  to  his  heires. 
Nevertheless  I  will  them  to  remayne  still  there,  and  that  Agnes  my  wief  to  haue  th’use  and  occupieng 
of  every  of  them  during  her  lyef  tyme.  Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  Will’m  Wyntropp  all  my  Implements 
and  liouseholde  stuf  whatsoeu  they  be,  now  being  within  my  house  in  Sainte  Michaells  in  Cornehill 
in  London,  excepted  and  reseruid  to  the  saide  Agnes  my  wief,  the  vse  hauing  and  occupieng  of  them 

during  her  naturall  lief,  with  a  Chamber  in  yt  my  saide  house  at  all  tymes  whensoeu  she  the  saide 

Agnes  shall  come  to  my  saide  house  in  London,  with  also  her  deputie  or  servants  with  her  freely, 
withoute  any  let  or  interrupc’on  of  the  said  Will’m  hys  heires  or  assignes,  frely  and  withoute  eny 
monney  or  charge  payeng  for  them  during  her  lief,  And  also  the  best  chamber,  with  all  the  pewter, 
Brasse,  bedding  and  other  necessaries  and  ymplements  there,  to  be  at  th’use  and  occupieng  of  the  saide 
Agnes  freely  at  all  tymes  at  her  coming  to  London,  with  all  the  other  commodities  of  the  saide  house 
to  her  also  as  freely  as  is  aforesaide.  ffurthermore  I  will  that  yf  Will’m  Wyntropp  my  sonne  his  heires 
executors  or  assigners,  John  Wyntropp  or  Adam  Wyntropp  my  sonnes,  or  any  of  them,  or  theire  heires 
executors  or  assignors  of  any  of  them,  or  any  other  for  them,  or  for  either  of  them,  or  in  eny  of 
their  names  of  either  of  them,  or  by  any  by  or  of  theire  procurement  doe  molest  or  troble  Agnes 
my  wief  her  executors  or  assignes,  or  doe  attempte  or  otherwyse  goe  aboute  to  disproue  or  adnichillate 
or  disanull  this  my  will,  in  all  or  eny  parte  thereof,  That  then  I  will  that  the  parte  and  parte  gifts 
and  bequests,  as  well  of  houses  lands  and  tenements  botli  free  and  coppie  with  th’app'tenn’cs  as  othe^ 

moveables  and  bequests,  made  and  giuen  to  them,  and  to  them  and  theire  heires,  and  to  the  heires  of 

eyther  of  them  that  soe  shall  molest  or  troble  Agnes  my  wief,  or  attempte  or  otherwise  goe  aboute  to 
disprove  adnichillate  or  disaniil  this  my  saide  will,  in  all  or  in  eny  parte  therof  as  is  aforesaide,  to 
be  frustrate  and  voyde  and  of  none  effecte  and  to  haue  noe  benifite  of  this  my  laste  will,  but  then  I 
doe  giue  all  the  parte  and  parts  gifts  and  bequests  of  hym  and  them,  or  made  to  hym  and  them  and 
theire  heires  of  hym  and  them  that  soe  shall  molest  or  troble  Agnes  my  wief,  her  executors  or 
assigners,  or  attempte  or  otherwise  goe  aboute  to  disprove  adnichillate  or  disanull  this  my  will,  in  all 
or  in  eny  parte  thereof  as  ys  aforesaide,  vnto  Agnes  my  wief  to  her  heires,  executors  or  assigners, 
eny  thing  or  things  contayned  in  this  my  will  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding.  Provided  alwayes  and 
I  will,  that  yf  there  be  any  Article,  Worde,  clause  or  sentence  in  this  my  laste  will  that  is  not  or 
be  not  made  pfecte  and  formall  according  to  the  lawe,  That  then  I  will  that  Agnes  my  wife  her 
executors  and  assignes  shall  take  lerned  councell  in  the  lawe,  from  tyme  to  tyme  to  make  them  pfecte 
and  formall  acceding  to  the  law,  and  as  the  said  Agnes  my  wief  her  executors  and  assigners  and 
her  leraed  councell  in  the  lawe  shall  make  them  ;  not  altering  my  legaces  and  bequests  I  will  to  be 
my  will  and  to  stande  as  my  laste  will  and  testamente.  All  the  residue  of  my  goods  Cattalle,  Chattells, 
debtf  householde  stuf,  plate,  Juells  and  all  other  moveables  and  vnmoveables  whatsoeur  they  be 
vnbequeathed  I  doe  giue  them  wholy  vnto  Agnes  my  wief,  whome  I  doe  ordayne  and  make  my  whole 
executrix  of  this  my  will.  And  I  will  that  Richarde  Burde  of  Ipswiche  to  be  Supervisor  of  this  my 
will.  And  I  doe  giue  hym  for  his  paynes  xlb.  And  to  my  syster  his  wief  xx8  to  make  her  a  Ringe. 
And  to  my  sister  Whiting  other  xxs.  Witnesses  hereunto  Thoms  Gale,  John  Spencer,  Thomas  Osborne, 


14 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Richard  Bronde,  and  John  Warde.  ffurthermore  I  will  that  Agnes  my  wief  her  executors  or  assignes 
shall  saue1  and  recouer  by  the  vertue  of  this  my  will  ;  and  my  mynde  is  yf  the  saide  Willm  will  not 
and  doe  not  paye  at  any  tyme  after  this  present  date  of  this  my  will,  yf  he  refuse  or  denie,  or  doe 
not  paye  yt  to  my  saide  wief  the  money  of  bothe  the  within  written  billes  which  is  CC  marks,  he  be 
by  the  saide  Agnes  her  heires  executors  or  assigners  required  to  paye  yt.  And  after  the  recouerie 
of  yt  the  saide  Agnes  her  executors  or  assigners  to  repaye  yt  agayne  to  my  saide  children,  according 
as  is  menc’oned  in  this  my  will.  Witnesses  G.  for  Thomas  Gale:  by  me  John  Spencer  .  H.  by 
me  Thomas  Osborne  a  witnes  .  •  for  John  Warde  a  witness  .  ^  by  Richarde  Bronde  :  By 

me  Adam  Wyntropp.  j 

Probatum  fuit  huioi  Testamentum  coram  Magro  Waltero  Haddon  legum  Doctore,  Curie 
prerogatiue  Cant  Commissario  apud  London  Decimo  Quinto  die  mensis  Januarij  Anno  Domino  Millimd 
quingentesimo  sexagesimo  secundo  Juramento  Stephani  Tsbourde  ais  Godfrey  procuratoris  Agnetis  Relicte 
et  executrice  in  eodem  nominat  Cui  comissa  fuit  Administrate  &c.  de  bene  &c.  Ac  de  pleno  Jurio. 
Necnon  de  vero  et  piano  compto.  Reddend.  Ad  sancta  Dei  Evangelia  Jurat  &c. 

P.C.C.  2  Chayre. 


mtljrop  lattDs  tn  Islington,  tmp.  Hmn  OTIS. 


From  Harl.  MS.  608. 
fo.  6b,  7. 

Com  Midd 


Register  of  the  Sale  of  Abbey  and  other  lands,  4  &  5  Phil.  &  Mar. 


Islington 


Val 


in  corn!  ,pl  d  ]  in 


Terr  nup  cuiusdm  Adame  Winthorpe  Armiger. 
ffirml  vnius  Tenti  in  Islington  cul  gardino  adiac 
in  tenur9  cuiusdm  Jacobi  Collens  p  Annul 

Redd  vnius  Tent  cul  gardiS  &  horreo  scituat  in 
le  Churchestrete  in  Islington  pd  nup  in  tenurj 
Nichi  Bray  &  modo  in  tenura  dci9  Jacobi  Collens 
p  annul 

<j  Redd  vnius  Tent  cul  horreo  &  gardin)  adiacenl' 
scituat  in  le  Churchestre9te  p^dict  nup  in  tenura 
cuisd9  Robti  Sharpe  &  modo  in  temu9  pd  Jacobi 
Collens  p  annul 


xiijs  iiijd 


XXs 


y  xi,j 


xxxvi8  viiid 


fviij" 


Redd  vnius  claus  prat  continl  iij  acras  dc9  Atkins' 
prat  con  tin!  viijt0  acr9  AlteP  cl?  prat  voc  le  Hare  I 
cont  vnam  Rod  Alter9  cli9  cont  vnam  Acr  &  vnam 
.  Rod  &  dimissj  pfat  Jacobo  Collens  p  annul 

The  p  misses  were  parcel?  of  the  lands  of  one  Adame  Winthorpe  Esquyer,  but  by  what  tytle 
yt  came  to  the  Kinges  possessions  I  knowe  not  neytlier  ys  there  any  other  lands  of  the  same 
possessions  wythin  the  same  towne. 

e2  p  me  Antho:  hayforde  deput  valent  Browne  Aud.  j 

[  =  deput;  Yalentini  Browne  Audit.]  > 
xiij0  Junij  1558  Willm  Ormested  one  of  the  Mrs  of  the  Chuncery 
xx  yeres  p9chage  and  not  aboue  in  consyderacon  that  he  pmyseth  to 
gyue  thys  lande  to  the  churche  /all  to  be  pd  before  Mydsomer  next./ 


1  The  word  “  sue  ”  as  written  above  this 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


15 


©rant  of  ©roton  Jftanor  to  ^&ant  ffiintljrop. 

[1544.] 

“  3?  Adam  Wynthropp  de  con  sibi  &  hered.  Rex  omib3  ad  quos  ec  saltm.  Sciatis  qd  nos  p 
Buraa  quadringentarf  octo  librarf  octodecim  solidorf  &  trm  denar  legalis  monete  Angi  ad  manus 
Thes  nri  Cur  nrie  Augmentacionu  revencionu  Corone  nre  p  dilem  nob  Adam  \Yynthropp  solut  De  qua 
quidem  sua  fatem  nos  plenarie  esse  satisfeos  &  contentat  Eundemq,  Adam  hered  &  executores  suos 
inde  acquietatos  p  psentes  de  gra  lira  spali  ac  ex  2ta  sciencia  &  mero  motu  nris  dedim  concessinl 
ac  p  psentes  dan!  &  concedim9  pfate  Ade  Wynthropp  totum  illud  Manlium  nrm  de  Groton  in  Com 
nro  Suff  cum  suis  juribj  membris  &  ptin  univ’sis  nup  Monastio  de  Bury  Sci  Edmundi  in  eodem 
Com  dudum  spectans  &  ptinen  ac  pceil  possessionu  &  revencionu  ejusdem  nup  Monastij  dudum 
existens  Aceciam  omia  &  singula  mesuagia  molendina  domos  edificia  tras  ten  prata  pascuas  pastur 
redditus  re^siones  Ivicia  redditus  oSis  redditus  sicc  ac  redditus  sup  quibuscumq,  dimissionibj  seu 
concessionibj  reservat  annuitates  annuales  redditus  firmas  feod  firmas  aquas  piscarias  &  piscacoes 
boscos  subbosc  jampna  bruer  moras  coias  vias  vacua  funda  Cur  let  Cur  pficna  Vis  franc  pleg  ac 
omia  que  ad  vis  franc  pleg  ptinent  seu  impos?um  spectare  possuit  aut  debent  nativos  &  villanos 
cum  corf  sequelis  feod  milit  ward  maritag  escaet  relevia  heriett  meat  tolnet  custumas  libras  waiTennas 
bona  &  catalla  waviat  extahier  pficna  comoditates  emolumenta  &  hereditamenta  lira  quecumq  cum 
eorf  ptin  univsis  jacen  sive  existen  in  Groton  Boxford  &  Edwardston  in  dco  CoiTi  nro  Suff  ac  alibi 
ubicumq,  in  eodem  Com  dco  MaSio  quoquo  modo  spectan  sive  ptinen  Aut  ut  memb1'  pars  vel  pceR 
ejusdem  manlij  antehac  hit  cognit  accept  usitat  reputat  dimiss  seu  locat  existen  Aceciam  advocacoeiii 
donacoem  psentacoem  libaiii  disposicoem  &  jus  pronatus  Rcofie  ecclie  de  Groton  pdict  dco  nup 
Monastio  dudum  spectan  &  ptinen  Aceciam  rev’sionem  &  re^siones  pdei  Manlij  &  cetlorf  pmisorf  cum 
eorf  ptin  uni  vis  Ac  totum  ilium  annun  redditum  viginti  unius  libiarf  sex  solidorf  &  octo  denariorf 
sup  dimissione  pdei  Manlij  annuatim  reservat  Ac  ornes  &  singulos  alios  redditus  revencoes  &  ce?a 
aiinualia  pficna  quccumq,  sup  pniiss  aut  aliqua  inde  pcella  reservat  Necon  totum  ilium  boscum  nrm 
cum  ptin  vocat  Growton  Wood  continen  p  estirnacoem  triginta  septem  acras  jacen  crescen  &  existen 
in  pochia  de  Groton  [pdict  in  dco  Com  nro  Suff  ac  dco  nup  Monastio  dudum  spectan  &  ptinen 
Aceciam  totum  ilium  boscum  nr’m  cum  ptin  vocat  Howewood  continen  p  estirnacoem  quatuor  acras 
jecen  crescen  &  existen  in  eadem  pochia  ac  eidem  nup  Monastia  dudum  spectan  &  ptinen  Ac  oiiies 
&  singulos  alios  boscos  subboscos  &  arbores  nros  quoscumq,  de  in  vel  sup  pmisis  aut  aliqua  inde  pcella 
crescen  sive  existen  Ac  tot  terr  fundum  &  solum  eorfdem  boscorf  &  eorf  cujuslt  Adeo  plene  &  integre 
ac  in  tarn  amplis  modo  &  forma  put  ultimus  Abbas  dci  imp  Monastij  de  Bury  aut  aliquis  vel 
aliqui  p-decessorf  in  jure  nup  Monastij  illius  aliquo  tempore  ante  dissolucoem  sive  sursum  reddicoem 
ejusdem  nup  Monastii  vel  anteqam  nup  monastium  illud  ad  manus  liras  devenit,  pdict  rnaSium 
messuagia  ?as  ten  advocacoem  ac  ce?a  [Pmisa  aut  aliquam  inde  pcellam  huit  tenuit  vel  gavisus  fuit 
huerunt  tenuerunt  vel  gavisi  fuerunt  sue  here  tenere  vel  gaudere  debuit  aut  debuerunt  Et  adeo 
plene  &  integre  ac  in  tarn  amplis  modo  &  forma  put  ea  om’ia  &  singula  ad  manus  liras  rone  vel 
ptextu  dissolucSis  sive  sursum  reddicois  del  nup  monastii  aut  rone  vel  ptextu  alicujus  Carte  doni 
concessionis  vel  sursum  reddicois  p  dcih  nup  Abbem  &  nup  Convent  dci  nup  Monas?ii  sub  sigillo 
suo  Conventuali  nob  inde  confect  aut  rone  vel  ptextu  alicujus  actus  parliamenti  vel  alitf  quocumq. 
modo  devenerunt  seu  devenire  debuerunt  ac  in  manib3  nris  jam  existunt  seu  exis?e  debent  vel  deberent 
Que  quidem  manlium  mesuag  ?re  ten  ac  ceta  pmisa  cum  suis  ptiii  extendunt”  ad  clarum  annun 
valorem  viginti  unius  librar  &  viginti  denar  decima  inde  non  deduct  Hend  tenend  &,  gaudend  pdict 


16 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


manlium  mesuag  ?as  ten  prata  pascuas  pastur  redditns  re^siones  Svicia  boscos  subboscos  Cur  let  Cur 
pfic  franc  pleg  advocacoem  ac  ce?a  ofnia  &  singula  pfnisa  cum  eorf  ptin  uni$sis  pfato  Ade 
Wynthropp  hered  &  assign  suis  nuppm  Tenend  de  nob  liered  A  successoribj  n’ris  in  capite  p  Svicin 
vicesime  partis  unius  feod  militis  ac  reddend  inde  annuatim  nob  hered  &  successoribj  uris  quadraginta 
duos  [?  solid]  &  duos  denarios  legal  monete  Angt  ad  dcarn  Cur  nram  Augmentacionu  revencionu  Corone 
nfe  ad  festum  Scl  Micbis  Arcbi  singulis  annis  solvend  noie  decime  partis  pnusorf  rp  omibj  redditibj 
Sviciis  &  demand  quibuscumq,  p  inde  nob  hered  vel  successoribj  n’ris  quoquo  modo  reddend  solvend 
seu  faciend,”  Ac 

“In  cujus  rei  ec.  T~  11  apud  Westfh  xxix  die  Januarij  p  bre  de  privato  sigillo  &  de  dat  ec.” 

Patent  Roll  35  H.  8.  part  14  Memb.  5  (31.) 


of  ®roton  Jltattar,  1557. 


“  D-9  Licenc  alienandi  Adam  Wyntrop  Sen.  Rex  &  Regina  Ac  Omibj  ad  quos  Ac  Saltm 

Sciatis  qd  nos  de  Gra  n’ra  spiali  ac  V  novem  libris  decern  solidis  &  quinq,  denarijs  nob  solutis  in 

Hanapio  nfo  Concessim8  A  Licenciam  Dedims  ac  ^  psentes  Concedims  &  Licenciam  Dam8  V  nob  hered 
A  successoribj  nrm  deg  Regine  quantum  in  nob  est  Adam  Wyntrop  Seniori  qd  ipe  Totum  illud  Manliu 
suu’  de  Grotton  in  Com  nro  Suff  cum  suis  juribj  membris  &  ptin  uni^sis  nup  Monastio  de  Bury  Sci 
Edmundi  in  eodem  com’  dudum  spectaS  e  ptinen  ac  pcell  possession!!  A  revenconu  ejusdem  nup 
Monast’ij  existen  Aceciam  ofnia  A  singula  messuagia  ?ras  ten  prata  pascuas  pasturas  boscos  subboscos 
advocacoes  jura  jpnat  reddit  re^siones  svicia  cur  libtates  franches  pficna  cofhoditates  A  hereditamenta 
quecumq  cum  suis  singulis  ptin  trit2  existen  reputat  cognit  sive  usitat  ut  pars  pcett  sive 
membr  Manij  pdei  aut  dco  maSio  aliquo  modo  spectan  sive  ptinen  Que  de  nob  tenentr  in  capits 
dare  feoffare  alienare  vendere  A  concedere  possit  aut  p  finem  cognosce  in  cur  nra  coram  Justic  n’rie 
de  Banco  levand  seu  quocumq  alio  modo  dilcis  nob  Simoni  Ponder  &  Johi  Ponder  Hend  A  Tenend 
eisdem  Simoni  A  Johi  A  hered  suis  Ad  opus  A  usum  pfati  Adam  A  Agnetis  uxis  sue  p  t9mino 

vite  eor  A  eor  alt’ius  dincius  viven  Et  post  decessum  ipor  Adam  A  Agnetis  ad  opus  A  usum 

Johis  Wyntrop  sedi  genit  fit  prdcor  Adam  &  Agnetis  ac  hered  masculor  de  corpore  ipius  Johis 
legittime  pereatis  Et  ,p  defeu  tabs  exit  ad  opus  A  usum  prdcT  Adam  &  hered  suor’  imppm  de  nob 
hered  A  successoribj  n’rm  dec  Regine  pi  Svicia  inde  debita  A  de  jure  cousueta.  Et  eisdem  Simoni 
A  Johi  Ponder  qd  ipi  pdict  manliu  mesuagiu  tv  as  ten  reddit  reSsiones  ac  cet)a  ornla  &  singula  pmissa 
cum  ptin  a  pfato  Adam  recipe  possuit  &  tenere  sibi  &  assigu  suis  pdcls  ad  opus  &  usus  jJdict  de 
nob  hered  &  successoribj  n’rum  dee  Regine  pfdict  Svicia  pdea  imppm  sicut  pdem  est  tenore 
jlsenciu’  similic’  licenciam  dedim3  ac  dam3  spialem  nolentes  qd  pfati  Adam  A  Agnes  aut  pdei  Simon 
A  Johes  Ponder  vel  hered  sui  aut  pdcus  Johes  Wyntrop  vel  hered  mascul  de  corpore  suo  legittime 
pereat  aut  recti  hered’  pfati  Adam  imppm  rone  jymissor’  sive  eor’  alicujus  (p  nos  liered  vel  successores 
n’rm  dee  Regine  Justic  Escaetores  Vicecomites  Ballivos  seu  alios  ministros  nros  vel  dcor’  hered 
seu  successor’  nrm  pfate  Regine  quoscumq  inde  occonentr  molesteutr  pturbent1'  vexentr  in  aliquo  seu 
g’ventr  nec  eor’  aliquis  occonet1'  molestetr  pturbetr  vexetr  in  aliquo  seu  gvetr  In  cujus  rei  Ac 
T  R  A  R  apud  Westfh  sedo  die  Maij.” 


Patent  Roll,  4  &  5  P  A  M.,  part  11,  Memb.  18. 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


17 


Alienation  of  ©roton  JHanor,  1594. 

“D-  licen  alien  £  Jobe  Wynthropp.” 

“  Regina  Omibj  ad  quos  &c  Saltm  Sciatis  qd  nos  de  gra  nra  spiai  ac  p  sex  libris  tresdecim 
solidis  &  quatuor  denariis  solut  Firmar  nris  virtute  irar9  nrar9  paten  concessim  &.  licentiam  dedim  ac 
p  nob  heredj  &  snccessoribj  nris  quantum  in  nob  est  ,j)  psentes  concedim  &  licenciam  dam  Dilco 
nob  Jobi  Wynthropp  qd  ipe  Maner  de  Groton  cum  ptin’  ac  quinqj  mesuagia  tria  cotagia  octo  Gardina 
octo  pomar  ducentas  acras  terr  viginti  acras  prati  Centum  acras  pasture  septuaginta  acras  bosci  & 
coiam  pasture  <p  omibj  a$iis  cum  ,ptin  in  Groton,  Ed  ward  stone  &  Boxford  in  Com’  nro  SufF  Que 
de  nob  tenentr  in  capite  ut  dicitr  dare  possit  &  concedere  alienare  aut  cognosce  p  finem  in  Cur  nra 
coram  Justic  nris  de  Banco  aut  aliquo  alio  modo  quocumq,  ad  libitum  ipius  Jobis  Dilco  nob  Adamo 
Selye  Habend  &  tenend  eidem  Adamo  ac  heredibj  &  assign  suis  imppm  de  nob  heredibj  &  snccessoribj 
nris  ,p  svicia  inde  debita  &  de  jure  consuet  Et  eidem  Adamo  qd  ipe  pdict  maner  mesuag  terr 
teii  ac  ce?a  omia  &  singula  pmisa  supius  expssa  &  spificata  cum  ptin  a  pfat  Jobe  recipe  possit  & 
tenere  sibi  ac  heredibj  &  assign  suis  de  nob  heredibj  &  sucoessorbj  nris  p  Ivicia  p'dca  sicut  pdem 
cst  imppm  tenore  psencin  similit9  licenciam  dedim9  ac  p  nob  hei'edibj  &  successoribj  nris  pdcis 
dam9  spiai em  Concessim9  eciam  ac  p  nob  heredibj  &  successoribj  nris  p  p’sentes  concedim9  pfato 
Adamo  qd  ipe  -pdict  maner  mesuag  terr  ten  &  cet’a  pmissa  cum  ptin  p  finem  pdem  in  Cur  p'dca 
concedere  possit  pfato  Jobi  &  id  ei  reddere  in  eadem  Cur  habend  &  tenend  eidem  Jobi  ac  herebibj 
&  assign  suis  de  nob  heredibj  &  successoribj  nris  p  svicia  inde  debit  &  de  jure  consuet  Et  eidem 
Jobi  qd  ipe  pdict  maner  messuag  terr  ten  ac  ct’a  omia  &  singula  pmissa  supius  expssa  &  spificat 
a  pfat  Adamo  ex  dca  reddicoe  ejusdem  Adami  similit9  cape  &  recipe  possit  &  tenere  sibi  ac  heredibj 
&  assign  suis  de  nob  heredibj  &  successoribj  nris  p  svicia  pdea  sicut  pdem  est  imppm  tenore  psenciu 
similit9  licen  dedim9  ac  p  nob  heredibj  &  successoribj  nris  pdcis  dam9  spialem  Nolen tes  qd  pdcus 
Jobes  vel  heredes  sui  aut  pfat  Adamus  vel  heredes  sui  rone  pmissor’  p  nos  heredes  vel  successores 
nros  aut  p  Justic  Escaet  Vic  Ballivos  aut  alios  officiar  seu  ministros  nros  aut  dcore  hered  vel  successor9 
nros  quoscumq,  inde  occonentr  molestentr  impetant1'  vexentr  in  aliquo  seu  gventr  nec  eorf  aliquis 
occonentr  molestetr  impetatr  vexetr  in  aliquo  seu  gvetr  In  cujus  ec.  Ti  R.  apud  Westm9  sedo 
die  Septembr. 

Patent  Roll,  36  Elizabeth,  Part  13,  Memb.  31. 

The  second  Adam  Winthrop  had  entailed  the  Manor,  in  1557,  upon  his  second  son,  John_ 
The  latter,  being  concerned  in  a  plantation  in  the  South  of  Ireland,  was  now  about  to  relinquish 
his  life-interest  to  his  younger  brother,  the  third  Adam  Winthrop,  whose  only  son,  Governor  John 
Winthrop  of  Massachusetts,  sold  Groton  in  1631. 


✓ 


l> 


18 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


Will  of  loljn  Wiutljop  of  ^.gljaitolom,  1613. 

In  the  name  of  God.  Amen  .  .  .  Winthroppe  of  Aghadowne  in  the  Countye  of  Cork,  gent, 
being  in  perfect  helthe  in  body  and  good  memory  ...  be  to  God  therefore  doe  make  and  ordayne 
this  my  laste  Will  and  Testament  in  manner  and  forme  .... 

ffirst  I  bequeathe  my  Soul  to  Almightye  God  hopeing  verelye  to  be  saved  by  the  deathe 
and  passion  of  his  Sonne  Jesus  Christe  and  my  bodye  to  be  buryed  at  the  disposition  of  mv 
Executrix.  Then  I  give  towards  the  reliefe  of  the  poore  people  of  the  pish  of  Aghadowne  aforesd 
the  some  of  sixe  pounds  sterlinge  to  be  distributed  by  the  discretion  of  the  aforesaid  Executrix 
Item  I  bequeath  unto  Adam  Winthroppe  of  the  Michells,  the  some  of  tenn  pounds  sterling. 
Item  I  give  to  Elizabeth  Winthroppe  my  daughter  220  pounds  sterling  &  to  my  dau  Anne 
Winthroppe  one  hundred  and  fower  score  pounds  sterling  for  their  better  preferment  to  be  paid 
unto  them  and  either  of  them  at  the  daie  of  their  marriage  provided  that  they  and  eyther  of 
them  marye  by  the  conseynt  and  to  the  lyking  of  their  mother  otherwyse  my  meaning  is  that 
they  or  shoe  that  shall  marrye  without  the  consent  of  their  mother  shall  have  no  parte  of  the 
foresaid  Somes  as  my  gyfte,  but  do  leave  them  to  their  fortunes  and  their  mothers  favor  in  that 
kinde.  Item  I  give  to  Elixabeth  my  nowe  Wyfe  daughter  of  Thomas  Powlden  deceased  all  my 
houses  goods  and  chattells  whatsoever,  my  Ligasays  and  funerall  expenses  to  be  paid  by  her  and 
allowed  and  I  doe  finally  make  constitute  ordayne  and  appoint  my  wife  Elizabeth  daughter  to 
Thos.  Powlden  deceased  my  sole  and  absolute  Executrix  of  this  my  laste  Will  and  Testament  and 
doe  hereby  revoke  and  disallow  all  other  Wills  and  Testaments  heretofore  made  or  ordayned  and 
doe  hereby  declare  them  to  be  absolutely  voyde  frustrate  and  of  noe  efFecte.  In  witness  whereof 
I  have  hereunto  put  my  hande  and  Seale  dated  this  eight  and  twentyeth  day  of  March  1613. 
My  meaning  is  that  the  tenn  pounds  I  have  bestowed  on  Adam  Winthroppe  and  the  sixe  pounds 
which  I  have  bestowed  on  the  poor  shall  be  paid  within  three  months  next  after  my  decease. 

John  Winthropi\ 

Signed  and  sealed  in  prcscnc  of 
Edward  Sponey. 

William  Laughlin. 

John  Chapman. 

N.B. — Noted  in  a  piece  of  parchment  endorsed  “1615.  No.  1. — Last  Will  «fc  Test,  of  John 
Winthropp  of  Aghadown  in  the  Co.  Cork  gent.”;  but  from  another  document  in  the  envelope  it 
would  seem  that  the  Will  was  proved  31  January  1613.  Aghadowne,  Diocese  of  Ross. 

The  original  paper  has  been  pasted  upon  another  paper  for  preservation.  The  seal  is  gone 
all  but  a  fragment  of  the  edge. 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


19 


Will  nf  Jo  bn  Mtntbop  flf  ®roton,  1620, 

ig  before  John  Wintlirop  quitted  England  for  Massachusetts,  and  while  liis  father  was  still 
liv  ■  made  a  will  which,  though  never  proved,  has  been  preserved  amongst  the  family  papers 

in  a.  It  is  printed  in  extenso  in  his  Life  and  Letters,  Yol.  i.  151,  but  for  the  sake  of 

C(  :3e  and  for  its  Suffolk  allusions,  an  abstract  is  given  in  this  place.  It  does  not  mention 

tl  ed  lands  to  which  he  afterwards  succeeded.  His  second  will  of  1639  will  be  found  in 

V  '50,  of  that  work. 

n  the  name  of  God,  amen.  This  tenth  day  of  May,  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  God  1620 

I  .  Yynthrop  of  Groton,  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  Esquire,  being  in  sound  mind  and  good 

la  make  my  last  will  and  testament  in  matter  following  : — 

:rst,  I  commend  my  soul  into  the  hands  of  God,  who  hath  called  me  into  this  grace 

w:  ■  :  iow  I  stand  and  rejoice.  My  body  I  yield  to  the  earth.  For  such  temporal  goods  as 
I  si  v!  save  behind  me,  I  commit  to  the  care  and  disposition  of  Margaret  my  wife1,  [Mr.  Adam 
Winthrop  my  father,  Anne  Winthrop  my  mother]  and  John  Wintlirop  my  son,  whom  I  doe  ordain 
executors  of  this  my  will.  Item,  I  doe  give  unto  my  said  wife  all  those  my  lands  and  tenements 
which  I  lately  purchased  of  William  Forthe  of  Neyland,  gentleman ;  vij,  the  two  tenements  and 
six  acres  of  land,  lying  by  Leven  Heath,  and  ten  acres  of  woodland ;  which  land  and  woods  are 
called  by  the  several  names  of  Masterman’s  Cross,  Masterman’s  Grove,  Stubbins  Cross,  Stubbins 

Grove  and  Homylies  Grove  ;  also  one  close  of  pasture-ground,  called  Little-pond  Field,  containing 
about  eight  acres,  lying  at  the  end  of  Neyland  Town,  towards  Euers ;  and  also  three  acres  of 
meadow  lying  in  Lowe’s  Meadow,  in  the  parish  of  Assington,  just  by  the  said  end  of  Neyland 

Town :  all  of  which  are  more  particularly  expressed  in  a  deed  of  feoffment  from  the  said  William 

Forthe  to  me  made,  bearing  date  the  twenty  seventh  day  of  July,  1617 :  to  have  and  to  hold 
the  said  tenements,  lands,  pastures,  and  woods  unto  my  said  wife  for  term  of  her  life ;  and  after 
her  decease,  to  remain  to  Adam  my  son,  and  to  his  heirs.  I  give  unto  my  said  son  John  all 

that  messuage  -wherein  I  now  dwell,  together  with  that  indenture  of  lease  which  I  have  in  the 

same,  and  in  certain  acres  of  land  in  Groton  being  parcel  of  the  rectory  of  the  same  parish. 
Item,  whereas  I  have  one  parcel  of  land  called  Upper  Crabtree  went,  now  in  the  occupation  of 

Philip  Gostlin  the  elder,  which  I  have  left  out  of  former  conveyances  that  I  might  lay  it  unto 

the  parsonage  of  Groton,  in  satisfaction  of  the  like  quantity  of  land  which  I  have  of  the  same, 

I  do  hereby  admonish  my  said  son  that  he  so  dispose  hereof  as  may  be  best  to  God’s  glory  and 

the  due  recompense  of  the  faithful  incumbent  ;  as  myself  purpose  to  do,  if  God  spare  me  life. 

“Item,  for  Mary  my  daughter,  I  will  that  my  executors  shall  pay  her  grandfather  Forthe 
his  legacy  of  £240,  to  be  paid  her  at  her  age  of  eighteen  years,  and  withal,  I  commit  her  to 
the  care  of  my  executors  to  be  well  and  Christianly  educated  with  such  goods  as  I  shall  leave 
unto  them.  Item,  I  will  that  my  executors  shall  pay  unto  Luce  Winthrop,  my  sister,  one  hundred 
and  twenty  pounds  ;  one  hundred  whereof  is  due  to  her  upon  an  agreement  between  my  father 

and  me  upon  the  setting  over  his  whole  estate  unto  me.  Item,  I  will  that  they  shall  pay  unto 

Ezekiel  Bonde  threescore  pounds,  which  is  due  to  him  of  such  legacies  as  my  father  was  to  pay 

unto  him.  Item,  I  will  that  my  sons  Henry  and  Forthe  shall  be  brought  up  in  learning,  out  of 

1  The  words  in  brackets  are  partially  erased  in  the  original. 


D 


20 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


the  rents  they  are  to  have  by  the  will  of  their  said  grandfather  Mr.  Forthe.  My  other  two  sons 
Stephen  and  Adam  I  commend  to  the  care  of  their  mother,  to  be  brought  up  in  the  fear  of  God. 
Item,  I  will  that  my  executors  shall  pay  my  son  Henry  £13 . 6 . 8.  yearly  out  of  lands  which  should 
fall  to  him  by  his  grandfather  Forthe’s  will  at  his  age  of  twenty-four  years.  Item,  I  make  my  loving 
wife  and  John  my  son  executors  of  this  my  will  ;  charging  them  that  my  debts  may  be  truly  paid  ; 
for  performance  whereof  I  do  give  unto  my  son  John  the  lease  of  the  house  I  dwell  in,  with  the 
lands  thereunto  belonging  and  therewith  occupied. 

“  Published  in  the  presence  of  Henry  Winthrop,  Samuel  Gostlin.” 


Will  of  Htqjljm  Wmtljrop,  1658, 

I  Stephen  Winthrop  of  James  Streete  in  Westminster  in  the  Countie  of  Midd.  Esqre,  being 
sicke  in  bodie  but  of  perfect  minde  and  memorie,  revoking  and  renouncing  all  former  Wills  by 
mee  heretofore  made,  doe  make  and  ordaine  this  my  last  Will  and  Testament  as  followeth. 
First  I  giue  and  bequeath  to  my  well  beloved  Wife  Judith  Winthropp  All  that  myne  house 
wherein  I  now  dwell,  with  the  houses  adioyuing  lately  erected,  and  all  the  members  and  appur¬ 
tenances  thereunto  belonging  and  alsoe  my  lands  tenements  and  hereditaments  in  the  Cittie  of 
Westminster  in  the  Countie  of  Midd.  for  and  during  the  term  of  her  natural  life,  and  after  her 
decease,  then  the  said  premises  to  come  and  discend  to  all  my  children  whoe  shall  be  then  liveing 
to  be  equallie  divided  amongst  them.  Alsoe  I  doe  giue  and  bequeath  all  the  Rest  of  my  Eeall 
and  Personall  Estate  to  my  Executors  hereafter  named,  to  be  preserved  sole  or  disposed  of  to  and 
for  the  best  advantage  vse  and  behoof e  of  my  Daughters  Margarett,  Johanna  and  Judith,  and 
such  child  or  children  as  my  saide  Wife  shall  be  now  great  withall  and  shall  be  safely  delivered, 
to  be  equally  divided  amongst  them,  onlie  my  Will  and  Meaning  is  that  my  Daughter  Margarett, 
shall  haue  fiftie  pounds  of  lawful  money  of  England  more  than  anie  one  of  the  rest  of  my 
children  to  buy  her  a  ring,  the  said  Margarett  to  receive  her  part  or  portion  when  she  shall 
attaine  to  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares  or  day  of  marriage,  which  shall  first  happen  and 
not  before,  and  alsoe  the  said  Johanna  to  receive  her  part  or  portion  when  she  shall  attaine  to 
the  age  of  twentie  and  one  yeares,  or  day  of  marriage,  which  shall  first  happen  and  not  before, 
And  alsoe  the  said  Judith  to  receive  her  part  or  portion  when  she  shall  attaine  the  age  of 
twentie  and  one  yeares  or  day  of  marriage,  which  shall  first  happen  and  not  before,  and  so  like¬ 
wise  such  child  or  children  which  my  Wife  is  now  great  or  pregnant  with,  all  to  receive  their 
parte  or  parte  portion  or  portions  as  the  Rest  of  my  children  before  named  are  to  receive 
theires  and  noe  otherwise.  And  if  it  shall  happen  that  anie  of  my  children  shall  die  before  they 
shall  accomplish  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  years  or  day  of  marriage,  then  my  Will  Is  that 
his,  her,  or  theire  parts  or  portions  shall  be  equallie  divided  amongst  the  Rest  of  my  children 
which  shall  surviue,  and  my  Will  and  meaning  is  that  if  it  shall  happen  that  all  my  said 
children  but  one  shall  die  before  they  attaine  the  age  of  twentie  and  one  yeares  or  dayes  of 
marriage  That  then  my  Executors  to  pay  or  cause  to  be  payd  vnto  my  Nephew  Adam  Winthrop 
son  of  my  Brother  Adam  Winthrop  deceased  one  hundred  pounds  of  lawful  monie  of  England  to 
be  deducted  out  of  my  estate.  And  also  to  the  children  of  my  Brother  Deane  Winthop 
fiftie  pounds  of  lawful  English  money  to  be  equally  divided  amongst  them,  to  be  alsoe  deducted 
out  of  my  estate.  And  alsoe  to  my  Brother  Samuel  Winthrops  children  fiftie  pounds  of  lawful 
English  monie  to  be  equally  divided  amongst  them.  And  alsoe  to  my  halfe  Brother  John  Winthropp’s 
children  fiftie  pounds  of  lawfull  English  monie  to  be  equally  divided  amongst  them.  And  if  it  shall 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


21 


happen  that  all  my  saide  children  shall  die  before  they  shall  attaine  to  the  age  of  twenty  and  one 
yeares  or  dayes  of  marriage  that  then  my  Will  and  meaning  is  that  my  lands  tenements  and  heredita¬ 
ments  except  my  fee  farme  rents  shall  come  and  discend  vnto  my  saide  Cozen  or  Nephew  Adam 
Winthrop  after  the  decease  of  my  said  Wife,  and  that  my  Personal  Estate  and  fee  farme  rents  to  be 
divided  as  followeth,  videlicet,  to  my  said  Wife  five  hundred  poundes  of  lawful  English  monie  To  my 
Brother  Deane  Winthrops  children  three  hundred  pounds  of  lawfull  monie  of  England  to  be  equally 
divided  amongst  them  if  the  said  children  of  my  said  Brother  Deane  have  not  received  the  said 
Summe  before  mentioned  of  fiftie  pounds,  which  if  they  shall  bave  soe  received,  That  then  they 
shall  haue  but  two  hundred  and  fiftie  pounds  and  noe  more,  and  to  my  Brother  Samuells  Children 
two  hundred  pounds  of  lawfull  monie  of  England  if  they  haue  not  received  the  summe  of  fifty 
pounds  abouesaid,  which  if  they  shall  haue  received  the  said  summe  then  they  to  haue  but  one 
hundred  and  fiftie  pounds  and  noe  more  to  be  equally  divided  amongst  them.  And  alsoe  to  my 
halfe  Brother  John  Winthropps  children  two  hundred  pounds  of  lawfull  English  monie  to  be 
equally  divided  amongst  them  if  they  haue  not  received  the  fiftie  pounds  soe  giuen  to  them  as 
aforesaid,  which  if  they  haue  received  the  said  summe  as  abouesaid  then  they  to  haue  but  one 
hundred  and  fiftie  poundes  and  noe  more,  to  be  equallie  divided  amongst  them,  and  fiftie  pounds 

to  my  Cozen  Mary  Raineborowe  Daughter  of  my  Brother  in  lawe  William  Raineborowe  Esquire,  of 

good  and  lawful  monie  of  England,  and  to  my  Cozin  Judith  Chamberlaine  Daughter  of  my  Brother 
in  lawe  John  Chamberlaine  Esquire  fiftie  pounds  of  lawfull  money  of  England,  and  to  the  Poore  of 
Boston  in  New  England  one  hundred  pounds  of  lawful  money  of  England  vpon  condition  that  the 
Inhabitants  of  Boston  aforesaid  doe  build  and  erect  a  Tombe  or  Monument,  Tombes  or  Monuments, 
for  my  deceased  father  and  Mother  vpon  theire  Grave  or  Graves  of  fiftie  pounds  value  att  the 
least,  whoe  now  lyeth  buried  att  Boston  aforesaid,  according  to  the  love  and  honour  they  bore  to 
him  and  her  in  theire  lifetime.  And  further  my  Will  and  meaning  is  that  my  said  Wife  shall 
haue  the  breeding  vpp  of  my  said  children  vntill  they  accomplish  the  age  of  twenty  and  one 
yeares  or  dayes  of  marriage,  if  my  said  wife  continue  unmarried,  she  having  the  vse  of  theire 
parts  or  portions  for  theire  education.  But  if  she  hereafter  marry  that  then  she  to  haue  nothing 
to  doe  with  anie  of  my  Estate  but  what  is  before  giuen  her  as  her  legacies  nor  with  the  education 
of  my  saide  children,  but  the  same  wholy  to  be  lefte  to  my  other  Executors  onlie  to  perform 

this  my  last  Will  and  Testament  and  to  see  my  said  children  well  educated  and  not  to  be 

wronged.  And  lastly  I  doe  make  and  ordaine  my  said  Wife  Judith  Winthropp,  my  said  Brother 
in  lawe  John  Chamberlaine  Esquire  and  Thomas  Plampyon  Gent  my  sole  Executors  of  this  my  last 
Will  and  testament.  In  Witness  whereof  I  have  hereunto  sett  my  hand  and  seale  the  third  day 
of  May  in  the  yeare  of  our  Lord  according  to  the  computation  now  vsed  in  England,  one  thousand 
six  hundred  fiftie  and  eight  1658.  S.  Winthrop. 

Signed  and  sealed  in  the  presence  of  Leo  Chamberlaine,  Elizabeth  Balldrey,  The  mark 
of  X  Clement  Ragg. 

This  Will  was  Proved  at  London  ye  nyneteenth  day  of  the  moneth  of  August  in  the  yeare 
of  our  Lord  God  one  thousand  six  hundred  fiftie  and  eight  before  the  Judges  for  Probate  of  Wills 
and  granting  Administrations  lawfully  authorized  by  the  Oaths  of  Judith  Wiuthropp  and  John 
Chamberlain,  two  of  the  Executors  named  in  the  above  written  Will,  to  whom  Admon  of  all 
and  singular  the  Goods  Chattels  and  Credits  of  the  said  deceased  was  graunted  and  committed, 
they  being  first  legally  sworne  truely  and  faythfully  to  administer  the  same,  power  being  nevertheless 
reserved  to  Thomas  Plampyon  Esquire  the  other  Executor  to  make  like  Probate  and  graunt  like 
Administration  Avhen  he  shall  come  and  in  legal  manner  desire  the  same. 

P.C.C.  418  Woottom 


22 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ffittmtljrup  ass  in  ©ratan  (KljattcdL 

“  Here  lyetli  Mr  Adam  Wintlirop  Lorde  and  patron  of  Groton,  whiche  Departed  owt  of  this 
worlde  this  ix  day  of  November  in  the  yere  of  oure  Lorde  God  McccccLxij.” 

I 

“  The  above  plate,  removed  at  some  remote  period  from  the  grave  in  this  Chancel,  of  Adam 
Winthrop  Esq,  first  lord  of  this  manor  and  patron  of  this  church  after  the  Reformation, 
and  long  in  the  possession  of  his  family  in  America,  was  restored  in  1878  by  the  Hon. 
Robert  C.  Winthrop  of  Boston  in  New  England,  his  descendant  in  the  eighth  generation.” 

Beneath  the  escutcheon  on  the  Winthrop  tomb  outside  the  Chancel  : — 

Ccelum  Patria  Christus  Via. 

Hie  jacet  corpus  Adami  Winthrop  Ar:  filij 
Adami  Winthrop  Armigeri  qui  hujus  Ecclesise 
Patroni  fuerunt  et  Dili  Manerij  de  Groton. 

Praedictus  Adamus  filius  uxorem  duxit  Annam 
Filiam  Henrici  Browne  de  Edwarduston  per 
Quam  habuit  unum  filium  et  quatuor  Alias. 

Hanc  vitam  transmigravit  Anno  Dni  1623. 
yEtatis  sure  75.  Anna  vero  uxor  ejus  obijt 
1629.  Hie  quoque  consepulta  est. 

Beati  sunt  pacifici  nam  ii  Dei  filij 
Vocabuntur.1 


Jitarriage  Stolmrat  d  Slljomasnte  (Clapton,  1615, 

Patent  Roll.  13  Jas.,  28 th  part,  No.  21. 

D  been5  Alien9  ini?  Winthroppe  et  Clopton. 

Rex  Ornibj  ad  quos  Ac.  Saltm.  Sciatis  qd  nos  de  gra  nra  spiali  ac  p  centum  solidis  solut 
ffirmar  nrls  virtute  lrai9  nrai9  paten  concessim9  &  liccnciam  dedim9  ac  p  nob  heredibj  A  success9 
nrTs  quantum  in  nob  est  p  psentes  concedim9  A  licenciam  dam9  dilcis  nob  Johi  Winthroppe  seniori 
Armigo  A  Adamo  Winthroppe  Armigo  qd  ipi  Maum  de  Groton  cum  ptin  ac  quinq3  mesuag  tria 
cotag9  octo  gardin9  octo  pomar9  ducentas  acras  tre9  viginti  acras  p9ti  centum  acras  pastui9  septuaginta 
acras  bosci  A  coiam  pastui9  p  omibj  anils  cum  ptin9  in  Groton  Edwardston  A  Boxford  Necnon 
AduocacoSm  Ecciie  de  Groton  Com  nro  SufF  Que  de  nob  tenentra  in  Capite  vt  dicitm  dare  possuit  A 
concedere  alienare  aut  cognosce  p  finem  vel  p  recupacoem  in  Cui9  nra  coram  Justic  nris  de  Banco 
aut  aliquo  alio  modo  quocumqj  ad  libit  ipore  Johis  et  Adami  dilcis  Willo  Clopton  Juniori  Armigo 
A  Willo  fforthe  genoso,  habend  A  tenend  eisdem  Willo  A  Willo  ac  hered  A  assign9  ipius  Willi  Clopton 
ad  opus  A  vsum  pdei  Johis  Winthropp  ac  heredum  suor9  quousqj  maritagm  int9  ipm  Johem  A 
Thomazinam  Clopton  filiam  Willi  Clopton  senioris  Armigi  bit  A  solempnizat9  fuit.  Et  post 

1  The  Winthrop  glass  in  Groton  Church  is  of  the  present  century,  but  there  exist  several  fragments  of  ancient 
glass  with  Winthrop  Arms,  which  are  believed  to  have  come  from  the  Church  or  Manor  House. 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


23 


maritagm  pdict  Hit  &  solempnizat9  fuit  tunc  ad  opus  &  vsus  sequent  videlt  do  pr  scitu  pdci  man!] 
it  duab3  parcellis  tre  vocat  Groaton  hall  feild  vn)  parcell  vocat  Perryfeild  cum  structui?  supinde 
nup  erect  duabj  parcell  vocat  hogwent  &  Mellfeild  tribj  parcellis  vocat  greate  Collyns  &  vn9  prat 
continen9  tresdecim  acras  cum  ptin  omibj  in  temu9  Phi  Gosling  seniori  existen  vno  mesuagio  it 
quinq3  acras  tre9  parcell  de  lyttle  Collyns  in  tenur9  Jotiis  Rawling  Senioris  &  duab3  parcell  tre 
continen9  decern  acras  in  occupacoe  Thome  Beamont  ac  vn  parcell  pnti  it  pasture  continen  octo  acras 
in  occupacoe  Johis  Snelling  &  parcell  bosci  vocat9  Muchfeild  grove  cum  ptin9  parcell  pfnissorp  pdcorf 
existen9  ad  opus  &  vsum  pdci  Johis  Winthroppe  duran9  vita  sua  &  postea  ad  opus  &  vsum  pdce 
Thomazine  duran9  vita  sua.  Et  postea  de  it  p  omib3  ill  ter?)  it  ten9  pmencont  in  tenui9  pdcorf 
Johis  Bawling  Johis  Snelling  it  Thome  Beamont  ac  de  &  greate  Collins  pdict  cum  ptin9  ad  opus 
it  vsum  pfati  Johis  Winthropp  it  tal  exit  mascul  qua!  ,pcreabit  de  corpore  pdce  Thomazine  Necnon 

de  it  p  pdict  scit  pdci  manij  ac  ohiib3  at  ten-9  it  ten9  pmencoat  cum  ptin9  ad  opus  it  vsum 

pdci  Johis  Winthropp  ac  heredum  suorf>  masculorf  pcrea?  de  corpore  Marie  nup  vxis  iplus  Johis 
remaner9  inde  hered  de  corpore  eiusdem  Johis  remaner9  inde  vltius  hered  ipius  Johis  Winthropp 
imppm  Ac  de  &  p  ten9  in  occupacoe  Henr9  Sand  Clici  voc  Wrightf  in  le  ffenn  &  quibusdam  parcell 
tre9  p°ti  it  pastur9  continen9  sexdecim  acras  cum  ptin9  in  tenur9  ipius  Henr9  parcel!  eciam  pmissf 
existen  ad  opus  it  vsum  pdci  Johis  Winthropp  p  vita  &  postea  ad  opus  &  vsum  exit9  mascul  quam 
idem  Johes  pcreabit  sup  corpus  pdce  Thomazine.  Ac  de  it  p  trib3  claul  vocat9  howefeild  it  palne 
continen9  quadraginta  acras  ac  duab5  Perryfeild  £  continen9  sexdecim  acras  cum  duob3  cotagiis  in 
eisdem  edificat.  bosco  vocat  Salmons  Wood  continen9  viginti  acras  duob3  cotagiis  in  tenur9  Jaspi 
Biddesdalle  &  Henr  Surrey  senioris  it  parcell  tre  vocat  Ypp  Crabtree  Wcnte  cum  ptin  (similit  parcell 
pmissorf  pdcore  existen  pdco  Johi  Winthropp  ac  hered  suis  mascul  pcreat  sup  corpus  pdce  Marie 

nup  vxis  eius  remaner9  inde  hered  de  corpore  ipius  Johis  remaner9  inde  vltius  rcis  hered  eiusdem 

Johis  Wynthropp  imppm.  Necnon  de  &  p  tot9  resid  orhi  it  singulorf  pmissorp  pdcorf  cum  ptin9  ad 
opus  it  vsum  pdci  Johis  Winthropp  ac  heredum  suorf  masculorf  pcreat  sup  corpus  pdce  Marie  nup 
vxis  eius.  Tenend  de  nob  heredib3  it  success!  nris  p  suicia  inde  debita  &  de  iure  consuet9.  Et 
eisdem  WiHo  Clopton  Juniori  it  Wilio  fforthe  qd  ipi  pdict  maner9  mesuag1  terr9  ten°  it  ceta  pmissa 
cum  ptin  a  pfat  Jobe  Winthropp  it  Adamo  recipe  possint  it  tenere  sibi  ac  heredib3  it  assign9  ipius 
Willi  Clopton  Junioris  ad  sepal  vsus  pdict  de  nob  heredib3  it  success  nris  p  suicia  pdca  sicut  pdcrh 
est  imppm  tenore  psencm  similit  licenciam  dedim9  ac  ,p  nob  heredib3  it  successorib3  nris  pdcis  dam9 
spialem.  Nolentes  qd  pdci  Johes  Winthropp  it  Adamus  vel  heredes  sui  aut  pfat  Wilis  Clopton 
Junior  it  Wills  fforthe  vel  hered  ipius  Willi  Clopton  rone  pmissorp  p  nos  heredes  vel  successores  nros 
aut  p  Justic  Escaetores  Yicecomites  Balliuos  aut  alios  Official-9  seu  ministros  nros  aut  dcore  heredum 
vel  successoi-9  nror9  quoscumq3  inde  occonenf  molestenf  impetantr  vexentr  in  aliquo  seu  gWntr 
nec  corf  aliquis  occonetr  molestetr  impetatr  vexetr  in  aliquo  seu  ^net1'.  In  cuius  rei  &c.  T.  R. 
apud  Westm  prims  die  Septembris. 

For  very  numerous  wills,  pedigrees,  and  other  evidences  connected  with  the  knightly  family 
of  Clopton  of  Suffolk  see  “  Harvey’s  Visitation  of  Suffolke,  1563,”  edited  by  Joseph  Jackson 
Howard,  Maltravers’  Herald  Extraordinary. 


24 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Sntrotmctorg  to  Wxntljrop  |)eto0im. 

The  Pedigrees  here  printed  are  derived  from  the  following  sources  of  information : — 

1.  Wills,  Administrations,  Parish-Registers,  and  other  contemporary  records. 

2.  The  Diary  of  the  third  Adam  Winthrop  (1595-1610),  and  the  account  of  his  family 
compiled  by  him,  known  as  the  “  Latin  Pedigree.” 

3.  The  mass  of  Winthrop  family-papers  preserved  in  New  England,  selections  from  which 
have  been  in  course  of  publication  from  1825  to  the  present  time,  and  now  comprise  two  volumes 
of  Winthrop’s  Journal  (or  History  of  N.E.),  edited  by  the  late  Hon.  James  Savage,  two  volumes 
of  the  “Life  and  Letters  of  John  Winthrop”  (1587-1649)  edited  by  the  Hon.  Robert  C.  Winthrop, 
six  volumes  of  miscellaneous  selections,  edited  by  Committees  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical 
Society,  and  much  additional  matter  of  importance  scattered  through  other  publications  of  the 
same  Society. 

The  Pedigrees  have  also  been  collated  with  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1612;  with  the  two 
Harleian  MSS.  in  the  British  Museum,  numbered  respectively  Harl.  MS.  No.  1820,  fo.  16b  (date 
1611),  Harl.  MS.  No.  1560  (date,  seventeenth  century);  with  the  pedigree  compiled  by  John 
Winthrop,  F.R.S.,  in  1742;  with  the  pedigree  filed  in  the  College  of  Arms  in  1768  by  Benjamin 
Winthrop,  Governor  of  the  Bank  of  England,  and  numbered  C.  6.  D.  14.  The  two  last-named 
documents,  however,  abound  in  errors  and  omissions,  which  is  the  case  with  most  genealogies  of 
the  Winthrop  family,  whether  in  print  or  manuscript. 

The  Editor  thankfully  records  his  obligations  to  Mr.  Robert  C.  Winthrop,  Jun.,  of  Boston, 
U.S.A.,  for  much  valuable  information  concerning  the  different  branches  of  his  family,  for  much 
assistance  in  compiling  the  pedigrees,  and  for  transcripts  of  ancient  documents  still  in  the  possession 
of  himself  or  his  kinsmen  on  the  other  side  of  the  Atlantic. 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


25 


l2Etttrt)rop  of  Proton,  co.  Suffolk. 

[Issue  known  to  have  died  in  childhood  are  not  included  in  this  Pedigree.] 


Adam  Winthrop  of  Lavenham,  co.  Suffolk,  1498, =j=Joane,  dau.  of  ...  Burton, =p  John  Ponder  of  Lavenham,  clothworker,  2nd  husband.  Will 


1st  husband  ;  described  as  of  Groton  in  the 
Visitation  pedigrees,  Harl.  MS.,  No.  1820,  &c. 


devisee  of  her  second  hus¬ 
band,  1520. 


|  P.C.C.,  30  Ayloife,  5  June  1520  ;  probate 
\]/bur.  by  the  Cross  in  Lavenham  church  yd. 


4  July  1520 
See  Ponder. 


to  be 


Alice,  dau.  of= 
...  Heuny,  1st 
wife  ;  m.  in 
London,  16 
Nov.  1527 ;  d. 
25  June  1533. 


Adam  Winthrop,  Citizen  and  Clothworker  of  London ,=j= Agnes,  dau.  of  Robert  Sharpe=  'v  illiam  Mildmay  of 

Springfield,  co.  Essex, 
Gent,  (father  of  Sir 
Thomas  Mildmay  of 
Barnes,  co.  Essex,  by 
his  1st  wife).  Will 
P.C  C.,  10  Holney, 
13  Feb.  1570,  proved 
24  Feb.,  names  Win- 
throps,  &c. 


and  afterwards  of  Groton  in  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.  ;  born 
at  Lavenham  9  Oct.  1498  ;  Free  of  the  City  of 
London  1526  ;  had  grant  of  Groton  Manor  1544  ; 
inscribed  ‘Armiger’  by  K.  Edward  VI.  in  1548. 
Master  of  the  Clothworkers’  Company  1551.  D. 
9  Nov.  1562.  Will  P.C.C.,  2  Chayre,  20  Sept.  1562, 
prob1 15  Jan.  Monumental  Brass  in  Groton  chancel. 


l.  Alice,  eld.  dau.,  b.  15  Nov.  1539  ; 

m.  12  June  1563  Sir  Thos  Mildmay 
(s.  of  Wm  Mildmay  aforesd)  &  d. 
8  Nov.  1607  ;  having  had  issue, 
inter  at.,  Sir  Henry  Mildmay  of 
Graces,  K‘,  the  distinguished 
soldier.  See  Mildmay 


2.  Bridget,  2d  dau.,  b. 
3  May  1543  ;  m.  Roger 
Alabaster  of  Hadleigh, 
co.  Suff.,  &  d.  4  Nov. 
1614  ;  had  issue,  inter 
al.,  Wm  Alabaster, D.D., 
the  poet  and  dramatist. 
See  Alabaster. 


of  Islington,  co.  Midd.,  Gent., 
2nd  w.,  m.  in  London  20  July 
1534 ;  remar.  William  Mildmay 
at  Groton  1563  ;  his  2d  wife  ; 
d.  13  May  1565  ;  no  issue  by 
second  marriage.  See  Sharpe. 


...  ux.  Richard 
Burd  of  Ips¬ 
wich  ;  she  and 
her  husbd  de¬ 
visees  of  Adam 
Winthrop  in 
1562. 


3.  Mary,  3d  dau.,  b.  1  Mar. 
1544  ;  mar.  1st  William 
Celie  of  London,  &  2d  Ab¬ 
raham  Vesey  of  Ipswich, 
yeoman  ;  having  had  issue 
by  both  marriages.  See 
Vesey. 


4.  Susan,  4th  dau.,  b.  10  Dec. 
1552,  d.  9  Aug.  1604,  having 
m.  ...  Cottie,  believed  to  have 
leenDr.  John  Cotta,  author 
of  a  work  on  Witchcraft. 


Elizabeth,  dau.  ofThomas=j=2.  John  Winthrop,  2d  son 


Po widen  of  Rathgogan, 
co.  Cork  ;  executrix  and 
alledged  2d  wife ;  so  styled 
in  husband’s  will  and  else¬ 
where,  but  validity  of 
marriage  doubtful.  She 
d.  before  1638,  having  m. 
2d  Thos  Nott  of  co.  Sur¬ 
rey,  Gent.,  afterwards  of 
co.  Cork. 


b.  20  Jan.  1546  ;  of  Groton 
M  anor  &  after  of  Agliado wne, 
co.  Cork,  Gent.  ;  long  sepa¬ 
rated  from  his  1st  wife, 
but  ?  if  divorced  ;  sold  Gro¬ 
ton  Manor  to  his  brother  & 
nephew  1609.  Will,  Record 
0.,  Dublin,  28  March  1613, 
d.  26  July  1613. 

I—  - -  ■  — 1 


'Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Ro¬ 
bert  Risby  of  Thorpe 
Morieux,  co.  Suff., 
Gent.  ;  m.  6  Feb.  1565. 
She  m.  2  Reynold 
Braunch  ;  mar.  lie. 
Cur.  Ep.  Lond.,  dated 
8  July  1617  ;  died  at 
Southwark  1637.  See 
Risby. 


Alice,  1st  wife,— 3.  Adam  Winthrop, =j=Anne,  dau.  & 


da.  of  William 
Still  of  Gran¬ 
tham  in  co.  Lin¬ 
coln,  &  sister  of 
Dr.  John  Still, 
Bishop  of  Bath 
and  Wells  ;  m. 
16  Dec.  1574  ;  d. 
s.p.24Dec.  1579. 
See  Still. 


Benjamin  Winthrop,  living  A°  1582  ;  d.  in  boyhood. 


3d  sou  ;  b.  10  Aug. 
1548  ;  of  Edwards- 
tone  &  after  of  Gro¬ 
ton,  Esq.  ;  lawyer  and 
Count}7  Magistrate. 
For  his  Diary  see 
“  Life  and  Letters  of 
John  Winthrop  ;  ” 
tomb  in  Groton 
churchyard  28  March 
1623. 


John,  of  Aghadowne,  co.  Cork  ;  b.  before 
alleged  marriage  ;  d.  unm.  1634. 


Elizabeth,  d.  before  1613  ;  m.  before 
1638  Peregrine  Banister,  Esq, 


Anne,  b.  before  1613,  m.  before 
1638  Henry  Hoskins,  Gent. 


coheir  of  Hen¬ 
ry  Browne  of 
Edwardstone 
in  co.  Suffolk, 
clothier  ;  2d 
wife  ;  m.  20 
Feb.  1579  ;  d. 
19  April  1629. 
See  Browne. 


John  Winthrop,  b.  12  Jan.  1587, 
of  Groton  Manor,  co.  Suff.,  Esq., 
&  afterward  of  Boston  in  New 
England  ;  Governor  of  Massa¬ 
chusetts.  See  Pedigree  A. 


Anne,  b.  16  Jan.  1585  ;  m.  25  Feb. 
1604  Thomas  Fones  of  London 
&  d.  16  May  1619.  He  renupt 
Priscilla,  relict  of  Bezaleel  Sherman 
of  Ipswich.  See  Fones. 


Jane,  b.  14  June  1592  ; 
m.  3  Jan.  1612  Tho3 
Gostlin  of  Groton,  clo¬ 
thier  ;  d.  16  May  1666,". 
leaving  issue. 


Lucy,  b.  9  Jan.  16OO,  m,  10  April 
1622  Emmanuel  Downing  of  the 
Inner  Temple,  Gent,  (whose  1st  w. 
had  been  da.  of  Sir  James  Ware)  ; 
she  d.  19  April  1679  ;  had  issue, 
inter  al.,  Sir  Geo.  Downing,  Bart. 
See  Downing. 


1.  William  Winthrop,  eldest  son,  of  St.  Michael’s,  Cornhill,  London 
of  Foxe  the  Martyrologist  ;  b.  12  Nov,  1529  ;  died  2  March  1582. 


friend  and  correspondent-pElizabeth,  dau.  of  ...  Norwood 

of  Kent ;  died  2  Jupe  1578. 


1.  JoshuaWinthrop, eldest^ Anne,  dau.  of 


son,  bapt.  10  July  1559  ; 
of  London  &  afterward  of 
the  parish  of  Kilbrogan, 
Bandon,  Ireland  ;  d.  1626. 


Vincent  Nor- 
ringtou  of  Lon- 
don,  mercer,  m. 
before  1603. 


2.  Adam  Winthrop,  2d  son,  bapt.= 
7  Dec.  1561  ;  of  London  &  after¬ 
ward  of  the  Michells  near  Ban¬ 
don  ;  devisee  of  his  uncle  John 
Winthrop  1613  ;  d.  1634. 


Mane,  dau.  of  William 
Hilles  of  Holton  Hall, 
co.  Suffolk  ;  m.  in 
London  1599  ;  of 
Desertsergis,co.Cork, 
1637.  See  Hilles. 


Joshua  Winthrop  of  the  Michells  near 
Bandon  1626  ;  supposed  father  of  a  Ste¬ 
phen  Winthrop  living  at  Bandon  1658, 
but  of  this  no  proof.  See  Pedigree  D. 


John  Winthrop,  bapt.  in  London, 
21  Aug.  1603  ;  believed  to  have  d. 
young,  as  his  mother  &  sister  ad¬ 
ministered  his  father’s  estate  in  1634. 


Elizabeth  Winthrop, 
unmarried  in  1 637. 


Elizabeth,  eld.  dau. 
bapt.  24  A  j>ril  1569  ; 
m.  Humphrey  Mun- 
ninge,  M.A.,  Rector 
of  Hrettenham,  co. 
Suffolk.  Her  will, 
Arch.,  Sudbury,  is 
dated  8  March  1624; 
prob.  17  Oct.  1631. 
See  M toning. 


Sarah,  bapt. 
19  Aug.  1571  ; 
mar.  16  Feb. 
1595  John 
Frost  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds ; 
d.  Oct.  1603. 


E“ 


26 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


PEDIGREE  A. 

iSSEtntljrop  of  Boston  tn  JBteto  Cnglanti, 


Martha,  dau.  of  Capt.  William  Rainsborough,=i=Mary,  only  child  of  John=j=John  Winthrop,  see  Ped.  A.=Thomasine,  dau.  of-j=Margaret,  dau.  of 


RN.,  sister  of  Cols  Thos  &  Wm  Rainsborough 
of  the  Parliamentary  army  &  widow  of 
Thomas  Coytmore  of  Boston,  4th  wife.  M. 
Gov.  Winthrop  Dec.  1647,  and  3dly  in  1652 
John  Coggan  of  Boston. 


Forth  of  Great  Starn- 
bridge,  co.  Essex,  Gent., 
&granddau.  ofWmForth, 
Esq.,  of  Butley  Abbey, 
1st  w.,  m.  16  Mar.  1605  ; 
J  d.  26  June  1615.  See 
Joshua,  b.  12  Dec.  1648,  d.  young.  Forthe. 


Only  sou  of  3d  Adam  W.,  b. 
12  Jan.  1587.  Of  Groton,  co. 
Suff.,  afterward  Gov.  Massa¬ 
chusetts  Bay  Colony.  See  his 
“  Life  &  Letters  ”  in  2  vols.  ; 
d.  in  Boston  26  Mar.  1649. 


William  Clopton, 
Esq.,  of  Castleins, 
co.  Suff.,  2d  wife. 
M.  6  Dec.  1615  ;  d. 
s.p.  8  Dec.  1616  ; 
bur.  in  Groton 
chancel. 


1.  John  Win¬ 
throp,  eldest 
son,  b.  at  Gro¬ 
ton  15  Feb. 
1606.  See 
Pedigree  B. 


2.  Henry  Winthrop,  =j=Elizabeth,  his  cousin,  dau.  of 


~T 


2d  son  ;  bapt.  20  Jan. 
1607  ;  a  planter  in 
Barbadoes  1627-28. 
Drowned  in  New 
England  2  July  1 630. 


Thomas  Fones  ;  m.  in  London 
25  April  1629  ;  m.  2d  in  N.E. 
Robert  Feake  of  Watertown, 
Mass.,  &  3d  V\  illiam  Hallett 
of  Long  Island,  N.Y. 


3.  Forth  Winthrop, 
3d  son  ;  b.  30  Dec. 
1609  ;  of  Emmanuel 
College,  Cambridge  ; 
bur.  at  Groton  28 
Nov.  1630,  unm. 


Mary,  b.  1612  ;  m.  circa 
1632  Rev.  Samuel  Dudley, 
eld.  son  of  Thomas  Dud¬ 
ley, Gov.  of  Massachusetts; 
d.  12  April  1643,  leaving 
issue  ;  his  1st  wife. 


Martha  Johanna,  only  child  ;  b.  9  May  1630  ;  m.  Thomas  Lyon  of  Stamford, 
Connecticut  ;  his  1st  wife  ;  died  circa  1650,  leaving  one  daughter. 


Sir  John  Tyndal 
of  Great  Maple- 
sted,  co.  Essex, 
Knt.,  Master  in 
Chancery,  3d 
wife.  M.  29  Ap. 
1618  ;  d.  at  Bos¬ 
ton  in  New  Eng¬ 
land  1 4  Junel  64  7. 
See  Tyndal. 


r- 


4.  Stephen  Winthrop, =j=Judith,  dau.  5.  Adam  Winthrop,  5th  son  ;=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  6.  Deane  Winthrop,  6th  son,=j=Sarah,dau.  of 


4th son;  b.  at  Groton 
24  Mar.  1618.  Re¬ 
corder  of  Boston, 
N.E.,  &  after  Col.  in 
the  Parliamentary 
army,  &  M.P.  for 
Banff  &  Aberdeen  ; 
d.  in  London,  1658. 


of  Capt.  Wm  b.  at  Groton  7  April  1620. 
Rainsbor-  Of  Boston,  N.E.,  &  Governor’s 

ough  &  sister  Island  ;  d.  in  Boston,  Aug.  24, 
of  her  hus-  1652.  He  m.  2d  Elizabeth, 
band’s  step-  dau.  of  Capt.  Tho5  Hawkins, 
mother  ;  m.  widow  of  Nath1  Louey  &  after 
in  or  before  wife  of  Major  John  Richards. 
1645.  She  d.  1691,  s.p. 


Margaret,  b.  circa 
1656  ;  m.  1st  29 
Jan.  1676  Henry 
Ward  of  London, 
frame-work  knit¬ 
ter,  &  2d  Capt. 
Edmund  Willey, 
R.N.,16Julyl685, 
&  by  him  had  issue, 
r- 


Judith,  b. 
1658,  m. 
July  1677 
Richard 
Hancock 
of  London, 
cloth-wor¬ 
ker  ;  died 
s.p. 


- TTT~1 

Four  sons  & 
two  dau”,  d. 
in  infancy  or 
early  child¬ 
hood,  some 
of  whom 
were  buried 
at  Groton. 


of  Rev.  Jose 
Glover  &  sister 
of  the  wife  of 
Deane  Win¬ 
throp  ;  m.  Feb. 
1642  ;  died 
1648. 


b.  at  Groton  16  Mar.  1632. 
Instrumental  in  founding 
what  are  now  the  towns  of 
Groton  &  Winthrop,  Mass.  ; 
d.  16  March  1704.  He  m.  2d 
Martha,  widow  of  Capt.  John 
Mellows  of  Boston.  She  d. 
1716. 


Rev.JoseGlo- 
ver  &  step- 
dau.  of  Rev. 
Henry  Dun- 
ster.  1st  w. ; 
m.  before 
1648;  d.  be¬ 
fore  1684. 


Adam  Winthrop,  only=j=Mary,  dau.  of  Col. 


child,  b.  at  Boston  15 
Oct.  1647.  Harv.Coll. 
1668.  In  early  life  a 
merchant  at  Bristol, 
England.  Member  of 
Council  of  Mass.,  d.  in 
Boston  3  Aug.  1700. 


...  Luttrell  of  Bris¬ 
tol,  England.  She 
m.  2d  Col.  Joseph 
Lynde  of  Charles¬ 
town,  Massachu¬ 
setts  ;  &  d.  1715. 


I — l — l - - 

Jos5,onlyson,b.3  May  1666; 
d.  unm.  13  Nov.  1702. 

Margaret,  b.  1660,  m.  Jon¬ 
athan  Grover  of  Boston  & 
had  issue. 


7.  Samuel 
Winthrop, 
7th  son  ;  b. 
28  Aug. 
1627.  Be¬ 
came  a 
planter  in 
Antigua.  See 
PedigreeC. 

— n 

Priscilla,  b.  1669, 
m.  Eliab  Adams 
&  had  issue. 


Adam  Winthrop,  only  son,  b.  in  Bristol  3  March  1676.  Harv.  Coll.  1694.=pAnne,  dau.  of  Col.  John 
Member  of  Council  of  Mass.  Chief  Justice  Court  of  Common  Pleas,  I  Wainwright  of  Ipswich, 
Col.  of  the  Boston  regiment  ;  d.  in  Boston  2  Oct.  1743.  |  Mass.  M.  1700,  d.  1755. 

I - — - - - L 


Elizabeth,  b.  1613  ;  m. 
Capt.  Sam1  Kent  &  d.  s  p. 

i 


Mercy,  b.  1673, 
m.  11  Jan.  1700 
Atherton  Hough 
of  Boston  &  had 
issue  ;  d.  1702. 


Mary,  b.  in  Boston  9  May  1683  ;  m. 
1703  Col.  John  Ballantine  of  Boston; 
d.  17  Oct.  1739,  leaving  issue. 


1.  Adam,  eldest  son,  b.  in 
Boston  12  Oct.  1706. 
Harv.  Coll.  1724  ;  d.  s.p. 
in  Boston  12  Dec.  1744. 
=Mary,  dau.  of  Hugh 
Hall  of  Boston.  She  d. 
1790,  having  m.  2d  Wil¬ 
liam  Wentworth  of  N.H. 


Rebecca,  d.  of; 
James  Towns¬ 
end  of  Boston, 
step-dau.  of 
Rev.  Chas 
Chauncy  ;  1st 
wife  ; m.1746; 
d.  1753, 


- , - - - 

=2.  John  Winthrop,  2d  son,  b.  in^Hannah,  da. 
Boston  19  Dec.  1714.  Harv.  Coll,  of  Thomas 
1732.  Many  years  Professor  at  Fayerweather 
Harvard.  A  distinguished  astro-  &  widow  of 
nomer  &  man  of  science.  Member  Farr  Tolman 
of  Council  of  Massachusetts  ;  of  Boston  ; 
LL.D.  &  F.R.S.  ;  d.  in  Cam-  2d  w.  ;  m. 
bridge,  Mass.,  3  May  1779.  1756 ;  d.  1790. 


3.  Samuel  Winthrop, 
3d  son  ;  b.  13  June 
1716  ;  Clerk  Mass. 
Sup.  Court  ;  d.  s.p. 
5  July  1779. 

Anne,b.  9  Aug.  1709, 
m.  Benju  Pemberton 
of  Roxbury  &  d.  s.p. 


“n 


Lucy,  b.  22  Aug.  1721  ; 
m.  George  Jaffrey,  Trea¬ 
surer  of  New  Hampshire 
&  d.  s.p.  1776. 


Mary,  b.  22  March  1725  ; 
m.  Capt.  John  Phillips  of 
Boston ;&  d.  1794,  leaving 
one  dau. 


1.  John  Winthrop,  eldest  son,= 
b.  17  Sept.  1747.  Harv.Coll. 
1765.  ill  erchant  of  Boston  & 
Mem.  Legislature  of  Mass.  ;  d. 
12  Feb.  1800. 


:Sarah,  dau.  of 
Isaac  Phillips 
of  Boston,  m. 
1776,  d.  1800. 


2.  Adam  Winthrop,  2d  son, 
b.  27  Nov.  1748.  Harv.  Coll. 
1767.  Drowned  at  sea  4  Feb. 
1774,  unm. 


3  James,  3d  son,  b,  28  Mar.  1752. 
Harv.  Coll.  1769  ;  wounded  at 
Bunker  Hill.  Judge  Middx.  Court 
of  Pleas.  LL.D.  ;  d.  unm.  in  Cam¬ 
bridge,  Sep.  26,  1821. 


4.  William,  4th  son,  b.  19 
April  1753.  Harv.  Coll.  1770. 
State  Senator  of  Mass.  ;  d. 
unm.  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 
5  Feb.  1825. 


Sarah,  b.  17  Oct.  1779  :  m.  1798  James 
Andrews,  merchant  of  Boston,  and  d. 
12  Nov.  1862  ;  left  numerous  issue. 
Her  3d  son,  William,  assumed  the  name 
of  Winthrop  ;  m.  1848  Emma,  dau.  of 
Sir  Wm  Curtis,  Bart.  ;  was  many  years 
U.S.ConsulatMalta&d.s.p.  3  July  1869. 


1.  John  Winthrop,  eldest1 
son,  b.  21  Feb.  1778. 
Harv.  Coll.  1796.  Of 
Boston  &  of  Paton  Rouge, 
Louisiana  ;  d.  in  Baton 
Rouge  21  July  1819. 


Anne  Halsey, 
dau.  of  Col. 
Benjamin 
Hitchborn 
of  Dorchester, 
Mass.,  m. 
1801,  d.  1813. 


2.  Adam,  2d  son,  b.  19 
Mayl781.  Harv.Coll. 
1800.  Clerk  U.S. 
District  Court  in  La  ; 
d.  unm.  in  N.  Orleans 
25  Nov.  1846. 


~  i  I 

3.  Charles,  3d  son,  b.  13 
Mar.  1791  ;  of  Boston,  bar¬ 
rister  ;  d.  unm.  at  Keene 
N.H.,  4  May  1885. 

Harriet,  b.  15  Apr.  1783  ; 
d.  unm.  9  Feb.  1782. 


Adelaide  =j-Rev.  Thomas 
Augusta  Vernon  of 
Winthrop.  Newport,  RI. 


John  Winthrop,  only  son,  b.  in  Boston  1809.  Brown  Uni-=Sarah  Catharine, 
versity  1828.  Of  New  Orleans  &  Newport,  R.I.  Col.  of  dau.  of  L.  H.  Gale 
Louisiana  Militia  ;  d.  s.p.  March  12, 1886.  Last  descendant  of  New  Orleans, 
in  the  male  line  of  Gov.  John  Winthrop  by  his  3d  wife. 


AnnetteHalsey=j=John  James  De 
Winthrop,  b.  Wolf,  M.D.,  of 
1806  ;  d.  1884.  |  Providence, R. I. 

* 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


27 


PEDIGREE  B. 

ffiJBtntljrop  of  J^eVo  Eontion. 


Martha,  dau.  of  Thomas  Fones= 
of  London,  1st  wife  ;  m.  at 
Groton  8  Feb.  1630  ;  d.  at 
Ipswich,  Mass.,  1634,  without 
surviving  issue.  She  was  first 
cousin  to  her  husband  and 
sister  of  the  wife  of  his  brother 
Henry  Winthrop. 


=Jolin  Winthrop,  eld.  son  of  Gov.  John  Winthrop  of  Mass,  (See  Ped.  B.)  ;=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Edmund  Reade 


b.  12  Feb.  1606  ;  Trim  Coll.,  Dublin.  Barrister  Inner  Temple.  Served 
in  expedition  for  relief  of  Rochelle,  Followed  his  father  to  New  England 
1631.  Founded  Ipswich,  Mass.,  Saybrook  &  New  London,  Conn.  Agent 
of  Connecticut  at  Court  of  Charles  II.  Governor  of  Connecticut  1657- 
1676.  An  early  and  active  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society,  and  one  of  the 
most  accomplished  scholars  of  his  time.  Of  Boston,  Mass  ,  &  Hartford 
and  New  London,  Conn.  ;  d.  at  Boston  5  April,  1676.  For  very 
numerous  letters  of  his,  see  the  “  Life  and  Letters  ”  of  his  father,  and 
Massachusetts  Historical  Society’s  Collections,  series  5,  vol.  viii. 


Elizabeth,  b.  24  July  1636  ;  m.  1st 
1658Rev.  Antipas  Newman  of  Wen- 
ham  ;  2d,  1678,  Zerubbabel,  2d  son 
of  Gov.  John  Endicott  ;  d.  Dec.  7, 
1716,  leaving  issue  by  1st  marriage. 


Mary,  d.  Lucy,  b.  28  Jan.  1640  ; 
young.  m.  1660  Maj.  Edward 
Palmes  of  New  London, 
his  1st  wife  ;  d.  24  Nov. 
1676,  s.p. 


Margaret,  b.  1646  ;  m. 
1665  John  Corwin  of 
Salem  ;d.  30Nov.  1711, 
leaving  issue. 


of  Wickford,  co.  Essex,  sister  of 
Col.  Thomas  Reade  of  the  Parlia¬ 
mentary  army,  &  step-daughter  of 
the  Rev.  Hugh  Peter  ;  2d  wife  ; 
m.  in  England  1635  ;  d.  at  Hart¬ 
ford,  Conn.,  24  Nov.  1672.  For 
repeated  references  to  her,  see  the 
letters  of  Rev.  Roger  Williams. 


Martha,  3d  w.  of 
Hon.  Richard 
Wharton  of  Bos¬ 
ton  ;  d.  27  Sep. 
1 7 1 2 ;  had  t  wo  das. 


Anne, 2w.of  Hon. 
Jn°  Richards  of 
Boston  ;m.l  Sep. 
1692  ;  d.  s.p.  27 
June  1704. 


1.  John  Winthrop,  eld.  son,  surnamed  Fitz-= 
John,  b.  at  Ipswich,  Mass.,  14  Mar.  1638.  Cap¬ 
tain  in  army  of  Gen.  Monk.  After  m  service 
of  Connecticut.  Major-General  commanding 
expedition  against  Canada  1690.  Agent  at 
Court  of  William  &  Mary.  Governor  of  Conn. 
1697-1707 ;  d.  at  Boston  27Nov.  1707. 


-Elizabeth,  d. 
of  George 
Tongue  of 
NewLondon, 
b.  20  Octr 
1653,  d.  25 
April  1731. 


Mary, dau.  of  Hon.- 
W illiam  Browne 
of  Salem,  Mass., 
1st  wife  ;  d.  in 
Boston  14  June 
1690  ;  aged  34. 


Mary,  only  child,  m.  1701  Col.  John  Livingston,  eld.  son  of  Rob4  Livingston 
of  Albany ;  his  1st  w.  She  d.  at  Uncasville,  near  NewLondon,  8  Jan.  1713,  s.p, 


=2.  WaitStill  Winthrop, 2dson,b.atBoston=Katharine,  dau.  of 
27  Feb.  1642.  Chief  Justice  of  Massa-  Hon.  William  Brat- 
chusetts  &  Major  Gen.  of  the  Provincial 
Forces  ;  d.  at  Boston  7  Nov.  1717,  aged 
7 5.  For  numerous  letters  of  his  brother 
&  himself,  see  the  Collections  of  the 
Mass.  Historical  Society,  passim. 


tie  &  widow  of  J  ohn 
Eyre  of  Boston,  2d 
wife  ;  m.  1 3  Nov. 
1707  ;  d.  5  Aug. 
1725. 


T-! — I 


John  Winthrop,  only  surviving  son,  b.  in  Boston=f=Anne,  dau.  of  Joseph  Anne,  only  sur-=pThomasLechmere, Surveyor  Gen1  John  &  Eliza- 


26  Aug.  1681.  Harv.  Coll.  1700.  Of  Boston  & 
New  London  ;  resided  much  in  England  ;  became 
active  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society,  the  40th  vol. 
of  whose  Transactions  is  dedicated  to  him  ;  d. 
at  Sydenham  1  Aug.  1747  ;  bur.  in  Beckenham 
churchyard. 

Dudley,  Governor  of  viving  dau., 
Mass  ;m.l6Dec.  1707  ;  bapt.  28  Nov. 
d.  1776  ;  she  m.  2d  1686  ;  m.  17 
Jeremiah  Miller,  Esq.,  Nov.  1709  ;  d. 
of  New  London  ;  2d  22  Nov.  1746. 
mar.  s.p.  N 

of  Customs  for  the  Northern  beth,  d.  infants ; 
District  of  America  ;  a  younger  William  &  Jo- 
son  of  Edmund  Lechmere,  Esq.,  seph,  d.  in  child- 
of  Hanley  Castle,  &  brother  of  hood. 

Nicholas,  Lord  Lechmere  ;  b.  18 
/June  1683  ;  d.  4  June  1765. 

r 

Mary,  b.  18  Sept.  Katherine, b. 9  Mar.  1711 ; 
1708  ;  m.  1729  Joseph  m.  1st,  1732,  Sam1  Browne, 
Wanton, after  Gov.of  Esq.,  of  Salem,  ;  2d,  1744, 
Rhode  Island  ;  d.  31  Col.  Epes  Sargent.  Issue 
Jan.  1767;  had  issue,  by  both  husb“s. 

T  1 

Rebecca,  b.  9  Jan.  1713  ;  Margaret,  bapt.  16  Jan.  1718  ;  Anne,  b.  13  Dec.  1709  ;  d,  19 
mar.  1733  GurdonSalton-  m.  1743  Jeremiah  Miller,  Jun.,  June  1794,  aged  85. 
stall,  Junr,  son  of  Gov.  of  New  London  ;  d.  1803, 

Saltonstall,  of  Conn.  ;  d.  leaving  issue. 

30  Oct.  1776,  leaving  issue.  Eliz,h  &  John,  d.  infts. 

2.  Basil  Winthrop, 
2d  son,  b.  21  Aug. 
1722.  Of  New  Lon¬ 
don  d.  21  Jan. 
1771,  unm. 


Jane,  dau.  of  Francis  Borland,  Esq.,=j=l.  John  Still  Winthrop,  eld.  son,=pElizabeth,  dau.  of  Wm  Shirreffe,  Esq.,  of  An- 


and  grand-dau.  of  Hon.  Timothy 
Lindall  of  Salem  ;  1st  wife  ;  m.  in 
Boston,  4  Sept.  1750  ;  d.  in  New  Lon¬ 
don,  5  April  1760,  aged  28. 


b.  15  Jam,  1720  ;  Yale  Coll.  1737. 
Of  New  London  ;  d.  6  June  1776, 
aged  56. 


napolis,  Nova  Scotia  ;  widow  of  Capt.  John 
Hay,  40th  foot  ;  m.  in  Boston,  18  Nov.  1761  ; 
d.  in  England,  24  Jun.  1793.  2d  wife. 


r~i  i - 

John  Winthrop,  eld. 
son,b.  20  July  1751 ; 
Harv.  Coll.  17 70.  Of 
New  London  ;  d.  in 
New  York,  15  Nov. 
1780,  unm. 

Anne,b.7  Mayl755 ; 
m  .178  6  David  Sears, 
Esq.,  of  Boston  ;  d. 

4  Oct.  1789,  leaving 
only  child,  the  late 
Hon.  David  Sears  of 
Boston. 

Mary,b.31  Jan.1758; 
m.  1786  Richard  \V. 
Parkin,  Esq.,  of  New 
London ;  d.  30  Aug. 
1848  :  had  issue. 


■’Francis  Bayard,  2d 
son,  b.  11  March  1754; 
Merch1  of  New  York 
and  of  Fisher’s  Island, 
New  London  ;  m.  1st, 
1759,  Elsie,  da.  of  Thos 
Marston,  Esq.,  of  New 
York  ;  2d, 1790, Phoebe, 
dau.  of  John  Taylor, 
Esq.  of  New  York  ;  d. 
16  May  1817  ;  issue 
by  both  wives. 

Jane,  b.  1  Nov.,  1752; 
m.  1781,  Wm  Stew¬ 
art,  Esq.,  of  New 
London  ;  d.  30  Nov. 
1828;  had  one  daugh¬ 
ter. 


Joseph,  4th  son,  b.  19 
June  1757  ;  merch6  of 
Charleston,  in  South 
Carolina  ;  m.  1788  Sa¬ 
rah,  dau.  of  Alexander 
Fraser,  Esq.,  of  Char¬ 
leston  ;  d.  26  July 
1 828,  leaving  issue 
This  branch  now(1893) 
represented  by  his 
grandsons,  Joseph  and 
Francis  Winthrop  of 
Charleston, S.C.,Esqrs. 


William  Winthrop, 

3d  son,  b.  5  Jun.  1756; 
d.  in  New  York  27 
April  1827,  unm. 


Thomas  Lindall,  5th 
son,  b.  6  March  1760, 
Harv.  Coll.  1780.  Of 
Boston  ;  Lieut. -Gov. 
of  Massachusetts  ;  m. 
1786  Elizabeth,  dau. 
of  Sir  John  Temple, 
bart.,  and  grand-dau. 
of  James  Bowdoin, 
Governor  of  Massa¬ 
chusetts  ;  d.  in  Boston 
21  Feb.  1841,  leaving 
issue  ;  inter  al.  j  Hon. 
Robert  C.  Winthrop 
of  Boston,  Speaker  of 
the  House  of  Repre¬ 
sentatives  of  U.S. 
and  Senator  from 
Massachusetts  ;  b.  12 
May  1809. 


“I — TT 


Benjamin, 6th  son,  b.  17 
Sep.  1762  ;  m.  1785 
Judith,  dau.  of  Peter 
Stuyvesant,  Esq.,  of 
New  York  ;  d.  in  New 
York9  Jan.1844,  having 
issue.  His  grandson, 
Egerton  Leigh  Win¬ 
throp,  Esq.,  of  New 
York,  is  now  (1893)  the 
senior  representative  of 
this  branch. 

Elizabeth,  b.  17  April 
1766;  m.  1786  Jacob  Se- 
bor, Esq. of  Middletown, 
Conn.,  leaving  issue. 

Chas  &  Henry,  d.young. 


i  I 

Robert,  7th  son,  b.  7 
Dec.  1764;  entered  Royal 
Navy;  d.  Vice-Admiral 
10  May  1832,  having  m. 
1804  Sarah,  dau.  of 
George  Farbrace,  Esq.  of 
Dover,  having  issue,  inter 
at., Vice-Admiral  Geo.  T. 
S.  Winthrop,  R.N.  of 
Dover. 

Margaret  Shirreffe,  b. 
17  July  1767  ;  m.  1st, 
1788,  Adolphus  Yates, 
Esq.  ;  2d,  1801,  John 
Marston,  Esq.  ;  issue  by 
both  marriages;  inter  al., 
Admiral  Richard  Adol¬ 
phus  Yates,  R.N. 


i  Descendants  of  Francis  Bayard  Winthrop  have  become  very  numerous.  His  senior  lineal  representative  is  now  (1893)  his  grandson,  Henry 
Rogers  Winthrop,  Esq.  of  New  York.  Among  the  others  are  Buchanan  Winthrop,  Esq.,  of  New  York  ;  John  Still  Winthrop,  Esq. 
Tallahassee,  Florida;  Robert  Dudley  Winthrop,  Esq.,  of  New  York;  Col.  Woolsey  Winthrop  U.S.  Army,  &c. 


28 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


PEDIGREE  C. 


^ittntljrop  of  Snttgua-  Egons. 


Samuel  Wintlirop,  youngest  son  of  Governor  John  Winthrop  of  Massachusetts,  by=j=Elizabeth,  da.  of  . ,  mar.  in 


Margaret  Tyndall,  his  3d  wife  ;  b.  at  Groton  in  Suffolk  1627  ;  died  in  Antigua 
1674  ;  became  a  planter  in  the  West  Indies  1659  ;  Deputy-Governor  of  Antigua 
1667-71.  For  numerous  letters  of  his  see  Winthrop  Papers,  Part  iv.  (Massachusetts 
Historical  Society’s  Collections,  Series  5,  Vol.  viii.)  He  had,  with  other  issue 
that  died  young,  three  sons  and  three  daughters  : — 


Holland  1648  ;  died  in  Antigua  167  -fr ; 
will  dated  11  Dec.  1675.  For  an  ab¬ 
stract  of  it,  see  page  31. 


1  I 

Henry  Win¬ 
throp,  eld.  son,b. 
in  Rotterdam  in 
1649  ;  educated 
in  New  England; 
a  Captain  of  An¬ 
tigua  Militia  ; 
living  1710,  pro¬ 
bably  d.  soon 
after. 


Henrietta,  da. 
and  coh.  of  Capt. 
William  King  of 
Antigua,  and 
step-daughter  of 
GovernorRobert 
Carden  ;  her  sis¬ 
ter,  Mary  King, 
mar.  John  Frye, 
sen.,  of  Antigua. 


Joseph  Win¬ 
throp,  Sid  son, 
educated  in 
New  Eng¬ 
land  ;  a  Capt. 
of  Antigua 
Militia ;  d. 
in  Antigua 
1679;  will 
dated  13  Oct. 
1679. 


=Catherine,  Samuel=j= . variously 


da.  of . ,  Winthrop, 


mar.  2d 
Richard 
Slicer, 
gent. 


3d  son  ; 
Mem.  of 
Council  of 
Antigua ;  d. 
beforel701; 
was  of  Gro¬ 
ton  in  that 
Island. 


stated  to  have 
been  a  da.  of 
Sir  Thomas 
Warner  or  of 
Philip  War¬ 
ner,  Governor 
of  Antigua, 
but  of  this  no 
proof 


1.  Elizabeth,  mar.  1st  William  Mildon,  mercht.  of  Bristol, 
England,  and  of  Nevis;  2d  Francis  St.  John,  gent.,  and  3d 
Col.  Rowland  Williams  of  Antigua ;  had  issue  by  2d  and  3d 
marriages. 


2.  Sarah,  mar. 
s.p. 


Col.  Samuel  Jones  of  Antigua  ;  probably 


3.  Rebecca,  mar.  Col.  Willoughby  Byam  of  Antigua  (son  of 
Col.  Wm.  Byam,  Governor  of  Surinam)  and  had  issue. 


Samuel  Win-=j= Abigail,  da.  of  ...  Lav- 


throp,  b.  1692  ; 
living  1767,  pro¬ 
bably  d.  soon 
after. 


ington,  gent.,  and  sister 
of  Major  Wm.  Laving- 
ton  ;  d.  1773  after  her 
husband ;  bur.  at  St. 
Paul’s,  Antigua. 


Mary  Winthrop, 
mar.  1 70  Major 
William  Laving- 
ton  of  Antigua, 
and  had  issue. 


Sarah  Winthrop, 
only  child,  stated 
to  have  mar.  Col. 
George  Thomas  of 
Antigua,  but  of  this 
no  proof. 


Sarah  Winthrop,  pro-=j=Henry  Lyons  of  Lyons,  Antigua,  Major,  Col. 
„..i„  -i-.-i  i  — i  Holt’s  Regt.,  Mem.  of  the  Council  of  the 
Island  will  dated  24  Ap.  1714,  proved  2 
June  1715  ;  had  Groton  Hall  in  Antigua  with 
his  wife  ;  there  are  letters  of  his  among  the 
Winthrop  Papers. 


bably  only  child,  and 
ultimately  sole  heiress  ; 
mar.  24  Aug.  1690  at 
St.  Philip’s,  Antigua  ; 
survived  her  husband. 


?  William  Win¬ 
throp,  living  in 
1756  ;  d.  s.p. 


Mary, 

1760. 


d.  unmar. 


?  Robert  Winthrop, 
bur.  at  St.  John’s, 
Antigua,  27  June 
1779  ;  last  of  his 
family  in  the  male 
line  ;  d.  s.p. 


Elizabeth  Win¬ 
throp,  mar.  Capt. 
Jacob  Huyghe  of 
Antigua, and  had 
issue. 


1  |  3  |  5  | 

1.  Geoffrey  Lyons,  eld.  son, 
had  no  male  issue. 

3.  Joseph  Lyons  of  Groton 
Hall  in  Antigua. 

5.  John  Lyons,  5th  son. 


2 


HenryLyonsof An-=j=Amy,  da.  of  4 


tigua  ;  heir  to  his 
brother  Geoffrey  ; 
will  7  May  1742, 
proved  12  Jan. 
1747. 


Samuel  Parry, 
niece  of  Symes 
Parry  of  Symes, 
co.  Gloucester, 
Esq. 


4  I  6  |  [ 

W  inthrop  Lyons. 


6.  Samuel  Lyons. 

Catherine,  mar.  1st  Wm. 
Denning,  and  2d  Major 
Weatherill. 


Henry  Lyons,  eld.  son; 
d.  at  Harrow,  18  Mar. 
1736. 

Elizabeth,  d.  unmar. 


Joseph  Lyons,  2d  son,  b.=j=Mary,  da.  of  Col.  Geo.  Byam  and 


1725  ;  of  Exeter  Coll.  Ox¬ 
ford,  and  after  of  Antigua  ; 
had  posthumous  da.  ;  d.  sans 
male  issue  9  Oct.  1748  ;  will 
2  Oct.  1742  ;  probt.  4  Feb. 
1750. 


Henrietta  Maria  Frye  ;  mar.  21 
June  1748  ;  she  mar.  secondly 
Daniel  Mathew  of  Felix  Hall, 
Essex,  son  and  heir  of  William 
Mathew,  Governor  of  Antigua, 
/f^and  d.  in  1814,  aged  84. 


Jonn  Lyons,  3d  and  youngest  son,  of= 
Lyons,  Antigua,  Sturtlow  House,  Tet- 
worth,  co.  Hunt.,  and  Bath  ;  b.  1731  ;  sue. 
his  brother  1748  :  mar.  at  St.  Philip’s, 
Antigua,  1  Feb.  1753  ;  will  10  Dec.  1763  ; 
probt.  27  Mar.  1775  ;  d.  at  Bath  31  Jan. 
1775. 


= J  ane,  da.  of  Col. 
Samuel  Harman  of 
Harman’s,  Antigua, 
by  Dorothy  Lloyd  ; 
she  d.  at  Bath  17 
Feb.  1792,  act.  59. 


Catherine  Wal-=j=John  Lyons,  eld.  sur--f=Elizabeth  Robins,  2d 


rond,  1st  wife  ;mar. 
1784  ;  d.  12  Dec. 
1803,  aged  40  ; 
had  ten  sons  and 
five  daughters. 


viving  son  ;  b.  20  Oct. 
1760  ;  sue.  to  An¬ 
tigua  estates  ;  of 
St.  Austins,  Boldre, 
Hants  ;d.  6  Feb.  1816.^ 


wife  ;  mar.  17  May 
1804  ;  d.  18  Oct. 
1820,  tot.  53  ;  had  two 
sons  and  one  da. 


3  I 

Samuel  Lyons,  3d  son  ;  b. 
1768  ;  in  Holy  Orders, 
Rector  of  Nevis  ;  mar.  his 
cousin  Alicia  Harman  ;  lost 
at  sea  1827  ;  ob.  s.p.m. 


William  Lyons,  2d  surviving=pSarah,  da.  of  William  Lyons 
K  T"”  .  of  Antigua,  and  grand¬ 

daughter  of  Joseph  Lyons 
of  Groton  Hall  in  Antigua ; 
d.  1  May  1860,  aged  92. 


son  ;  b.  25  Jan.  1766  ;  mar. 
his  second  cousin  in  1795  ; 
of  Tenby,  Eng.  ;  d.  17  Nov. 
1849. 


Edmund  Lyons,  4th  son;  b.  21  Nov.  1790  ;=f=Augusta  Louisa,  Humphrey  Lyons,  9th=fEliza,  da.  of  Henry  William  Lyons,=j=Jane,da.of  James  Dobie 

of  Grangevale,  Ayrshire, 
by  Janet  Wilson  ;  d.  15 
Feb.  1867,  leaving  a  son 
and  one  dau.,  Janet 
Wilson  Lyons. 


Admiral  R.N.  ;  British  Minister  at  Athens 
1835-49,  at  Berne  1849-51,  at  Stockholm 
1851-63  ;  K.C.B.,  1835  ;  Bart.,  1840  ; 
G.C.B.,  1844  ;  raised  to  the  Peerage  as 
Baron  Lyons,  1856  ;  d.  23  Nov.  1858. 


da.  and  coheir  of 
Capt.  J  osiasRogers, 
R.N. ;  mar.  18  July 
1814  ;  d.  10  Mar. 
1852. 


son ;  Major-Gen.  Indian 
Army  ;  b.  8  July  1802 ; 
d.  25  May  1873  ;  he  mar. 
secondly  Adelaide,  da.  of 
Lord  Avonmore. 


Bennett  of  Fir  Grove, 
Liverpool  ;  mar.  4 
Nov.  1829 ;  d.  17  Mar. 
1859. 


Captain  R.N. ;  b. 
1797  ;mar,1830; 
d.  3  Oct.  1878. 


Richard  Bickerton  Pennell,  2d 
Lord  Lyons  ;  b.  26  Ap.  1817  ; 
Minister  at  Washington,  1858  ; 
Ambassador  at  Paris,  1867  ; 
createda  Viscountl881 ;  nomi¬ 
nated  an  Earl,  but  d.  before 
patent  was  sealed  8  Dec.  1887. 


Augusta  Mary  Minna  Catherine, 
younger  sister  and  coh.  ;  b.  1821  ; 
mar.  19  June  1839,  Henry  Granville, 
14th  Duke  of  Norfolk,  and  d.  22  Mar. 
1886  ;  she  had  issue  Henry  Fitzalan 
Howard,  the  15th  Duke,  b.  1847,  with 
ten  other  children.  (See  Burke’s  Peer¬ 
age.) 


I 

Edmund  Willoughby  Lyons, =j=Emily  Helen,  youngest 


Col.  Indian  Army  ;  eld.  son  ; 
b.  23  Feb.  1830  ;  d.  6  Jan. 
1889  ;  his  eld.  son,  Edmund 
Humphrey  Lyons,  is  the  repre¬ 
sentative  of  Lyons  of  St. 
Austins. 


da.  of  H.  Thomas,  Esq., 
Indian  Medical  Service; 
mar.  6  Dec.  1855,  1st 
wife.  Issue  two  sons  and 
one  daughter. 


Wilson  Dobie  Wilson 
Lyons ;  b.  1835 ;  sole  male 
representative  of  William 
Lyons  of  Tenby  and  of 
Joseph  Lyons  of  Groton 
Hall  in  Antigua. 


A 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


29 


PEDIGREE  D. 


HJtntljrop  of  Corfu 


Stephen  Winthrop  of  Bandon,  near  Cork,  1658,  supposed  descendant  of  Joshua=f=Mary  dau.  of .  Living  16  Sept.  1685, 


Winthrop  of  the  Suffolk  family  (see  Winthrop  of  Groton),  but  of  this 
proof  ;  Bandon  parish  records  not  going  so  far  back  ;  d.  at  Bandon  1685. 


Stephen,  eld.  son,  bapt.  24  Mar. 
1658  ;  died  before  1673. 


Thomas,  2d  son,  bapt.  1664  : 
a  tanner  at  Bandon  1685  : 
d.  s.p.  1704  ? 


Joseph,  5th  son,  bapt. 
1675  ;  d.  young. 


when  Admon  of  her  husband’s  estate  was 
granted  to  her  and  her  son  Tho8  Winthrop. 


Mary, 
1661  : 


bapt.  4  Oct. 
cl  1722  ? 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  July 
23,  1669  ;  d.  1723  ? 


. ,  1st  wife,1 

m. ante  1695  ; 
date  of  her 
death  not 
known. 


Jonathan  Winthrop,  3d  son,=Elizabeth,  dau.  of 
bapt.  23  Dec.  1666  ;  some-  .. ...  ;  d.  20  Sept. 


time  a  cooper  at  Bandon  ; 
afterward  Dep.  Collector  of 
Customs  at  Baltimore,  co. 
Cork ;  later  in  business  in 
London  ;  d.  27  Jan.  1737. 
Gravestone  in  West  Ham 
church  in  co.  Essex.  Will 
P.C.C.,  45  Wake. 


1738,  aged  84. 
Buried  in  West 
Ham  church.  Will 
P.C.C.,  225  Brod- 
ripp  ;  2d  wife,  ob. 
sp. 


Elizabeth,  b.  ante  1695  ; 
her  father’s  executrix. 
1736  ;  living  at  Stratford 
le  Bow  1740,  unm. 


Stephen,  d.  ante  1698,  inf. 
Wayte,  d.  ante  1698,  inf. 


Stephen,  4th  son,  bapt.  23  Sept. 
1673  ;  d.  1741  ?  stated  to  have 
m.  Constance  Westcombe  in 
1701  ;  perhaps  father  of  a  Jona¬ 
than  W.  stated  to  have  m.  2 
Dec.  1732  Anne,  sister  of  Hugh 
Jameson  of  Cliarleville  ;  and  of 
an  Abigail  W.,  who  is  said  to 
have  m.  1st  Rich'1  Couch,  mari¬ 
ner  ;  &  2d,  1745,  Robert  Crofts 
of  Ballythomas,  Gent. 

“i 


Benjamin  Winthrop,-pBridget,  dau.  of 


6th  son,  bapt.  2  Sep. 
1678  ;  m.  21  Jan. 
1702;  d.  30  Nov. 
1729  ;  Merchant  of 
Cork  ;  buried  in  old 
St.  Peter’s,  Cork. 


Lydia,  living 
174f,  unm. 


Jonathan  Winthrop,  only  surviving  son, 
of  St.  Catharine’s  Cree,  London  ;  bur. 
at  West  Ham  16  Mar.  1748.  Admon 
P.C.C.  29  Mar.  174f  to  Lydia  Win¬ 
throp,  spr  his  sister.  Ob.  s.p. 


William  Pem¬ 
broke  &  sister 
of  Thomas  Pem¬ 
broke,  Mayor  of 
Cork  ;  died  15 
Oct.  1744  ;  bur¬ 
ied  in  Old  St. 
Peter’s  church, 
Cork. 


i - 

Stephen, 
eld.  son, 
b.  28Mav 
1705.  See 
Fed.  E. 
(Winthrop 
of  London). 


n - 

Benjamin, 
d.  young. 

William, 
d.  young. 


William  Winthrop,  twin=j=Alicia,  dau. 


of  Robert 
Wrixon, 
Esq.  of 
Mallow. 


Jonathan, 
3d  son,  b.  29 
Dec.  1714  ; 
d.  unm.  at 
Nantes  in 
France,  5 
Nov.  1730. 


with  Stephen,  b.  28  May 
1705  ;  m.  24  Jan.  1733  ; 
d.  at  Bordeaux,  Nov. 

1765.  A  leading  mer¬ 
chant  of  Cork  from  whom 
Winthrop  St.  Cork  took 
its  name.  High  Sheriff 
1741,  Mayor  1744. 

- 1 - 1 - r- - 1 - 

Stephen  Winthrop,  b.=j=Katharine,  Mary,  m. 
...  ;  m.  6  Oct.  1757  ;  dauglit*'of  William 
d. ...  Sometime  Capt.  Yeamans  Lane  of 
65th  foot.  Served  in  Wrixon,  Cork, 
American  war  ;  after-  Esq.  and  had 

ward  of  Cork.  issue. 


- 1 - 

Mary,  b.  16 
Nov.  1703, 
m.  Rev. 
Richard 
Baldwin  of 
Bandon  ; 
d.  17  Feb. 
1761  ;  had 
issue. 


Bridget,  b.  25 
Dec.  1712,  m. 
William  Skeys, 
merchant  of 
Dublin,  d.  in 
Cork  13  Jan. 
1755. 


Sarah, b.  9  Sept. 
1718  :  m  Robert 
Wrixon,  Mayor 
of  Cork  in  1750; 
d.  April  1763  ; 
had  issue. 


- — |—tt  n 

Five  other  children, 
of  whom  were  two 
sons  named  Benja¬ 
min,  two  daughters 
named  El  izabeth,  and 
one  named  Bridget, 
died  in  infancy  or 
early  childhood. 


Bridget,  mar¬ 
ried  William 
Maunsell  of 
Limerick,  and 
had  issue. 


Sarah,  m.  Richard 
Pope,  of  Cork,  who 
was  guillotined  in 
Paris  during  the 
Terror  ;  she  had 


Frances,  m.  Ellinor,  m.  William  Jones, 
Nathaniel  of  Cork,  and  died  1824. 
Mitchell ,  F rom  this  marriage  descend 

Capt.  16th  the  existing  families  of 
foot.  She  Bence-Jones  of  Lisselan  co. 
d.  s.p.  1822.  Cork,  and  O’Donovan,  of 
Clan  Cathal. 


William  Winthrop, 
son,  of  Cork  ;  died 


eldest=pSarah,  dau.  of  ... 
I  Bradshaw,  of  Cork. 


Benjamin  Winthrop,  2d  son,  an  officer  in  the  army.  Killed 
at  the  taking  of  Santa  Lucia  in  1779  ;  unmarried. 


Mary  Anne,  Winthrop  ;  b. 
1763  ;  d.  unmarried. 


Stephen  Pembroke  Winthrop,  b.  ...,  died  in  Cork  1822,  aged  19.  Believed 
to  have  been  the  last  of  his  family  in  the  male  line  in  Ireland. 


Mary  Anne  Pembroke  Winthrop, 
died  unmarried  26  Feb.  1857. 


Two  children,  died 
in  infancy. 


Among  the  Winthrop  Papers  in  Boston  U.S.  are  several  letters  from  Jonathan  Winthrop  of  Bandon  to 
Fitz-John  and  Wait  Winthrop,  written  in  1694-1698,  and  intimating  a  possibility  of  his  emigrating  to 
New  England  if  he  received  encouragement.  He  addresses  them  as  strangers,  but  kinsmen,  without, 

however,  giving  any  clue  to  the  precise  degree  of  relationship  existing  between  them. 


% 


30 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


PEDIGREE  E. 

IBEtntljrop  of  HonOon. 


Frances,  dau.  of  ...  Davie  of  Exeter, =j=Stephen  Wintlirop,  eld.  son  of  Benjamin  Winthrop  of  Cork,=j=Mary,  dau.  of  Murthwait  Ivatt  of 


co.  Devon  ;  1st  wife  ;  m.  17  July- 
1733  ;  d.  in  London,  26  April  1739. 
Buried  in  St.  Stephen’s,  Walbrook. 


(See  Ped.  D.),  b.  in  Cork  28  May  1705.  Merchant  of  London. 
Sometimes  styled  of  Exeter  where  he  once  resided.  D.  in  Lon¬ 
don  1  July  1758.  Buried  in  St.  Stephen’s,  Walbrook. 


Wimbledon,  co.  Surrey,  Turkey 
Merchant ;  2d  wife  ;  m.  31  July 
1745. 


I  I 

Mary&  Ethel- 
red  both  died 
young ;  bur. 
St.  Stephen’s 
Walbrook. 


Bridget,  b.  5  May 
1734  ;  m.  David 
Roche,  Alderman 
of  Limerick,  the 
grandfather  of  Sir 
David  Roche  of 
Carass,  1st  Bart. 
Had  issue. 


Frances,  b.  28 
Mar.  1735;  m.22 
March  1757  Rob‘ 
Bligh,  Dean  of 
Elphin,  brother 
to  the  1st  Earl 
of  Daruley  ;  had 
issue. 


1.  Benjamin  Win¬ 
throp,  eld.  son,  b. 
5  Jan.  1737  ;  Mer¬ 
chant  of  London, 
and  Governor  of 
the  Bank  of  Eng¬ 
land  1804-5  ;  d.  7 
Oct.  1809. 


^Elizabeth, 
dau.  &  coh. 
of  Edward 
Neale,  of 
Lombard 
St.;  mar.  12 
Jan.  1765. 


2.  William, 2d 
son, b.26  July 
1746.  Some¬ 
time  an  offi- 
cerin  thel2t’1 
foot;  d.unm. 


3.  Stephen, 
3d  son,  b.  4 
Feb.  1749- 
50;  d.s.p.m. 

Martha,  b. 
12Sep.l747, 
d.  unm. 


Mary  Win-=j= John  Bris- 


throp,  b.ll 
Sep.  1748. 


coe,  of 
Twicken¬ 
ham,  co. 
Middx.Esq. 


John  Ivatt  Briscoe,  Esq. 
M.P.,  died  .  .  . 


Elizabeth,  b.  1768 ;  d. 
1810  ;  m.  William 
Mackworth  Praed, 
Esq.,  Serg.  at  Law, 
and  had  issue,  inter 
al.  the  late  Winthrop 
Mackworth  Praed, 
M.P.,  the  poet. 


Benjamin,  eld.  son, 
b.  29  March  1766  ; 
M.  A.University  Coll., 
Oxford, 1792.  OfLin- 
coln’s  Inn  ;  d.  unm. 
in  London,  1846  ; 
bur.  in  St.  Stephen’s, 
Wallbrook. 


Stephen  John,  2dson,=pMary  Horton, 


b.  30  Jan.  1767  ;  St. 
John’s  Coll.  Camb., 
A.B.  1791,  M.D.  1796. 
Of  London  and  of 
Little  Boundes,  Ton- 
bridge,  co.  Kent ;  d. 
April,  1819. 


dau.  of  Gama¬ 
liel  Lloyd, 
Esq., of  Leeds; 
mar.  July 
1779  ;  d.  Oct. 
1818. 


Edward,  3d  son,  b.  1769  ;=pMartha 
A.M.  St.  John’s  Coll.,  Eveleigh 
Camb.  1796  ;  Rector  of  m.  1811. 

West  Mailing,  Kent  ;  d, 

1826. 

r-ri - ■ 

Benjamin  Eveleigh  Winthrop,  M.A.,  Wad- 
liam  Coll.  Oxford  1840;  Barrister-at-Law  ; 
of  London  and  Dover  ;  d.  unm.  Mar.  1870. 


Martha  and  Frances,  d.  unm  ? 


— I  l  i 

William,  4th 
son,  b.  1770 
SometimeFel- 
low  of  St. 
John’s  Coll. 
Camb.  ;  m.  ... 
Peacham,  Jan. 
1827  ;  d.  s.p. 

John  and  Ber¬ 
nard, d.  young. 


Benjamin  Winthrop, =j=Anne,  dau.  of 


eld.  son,  b.  24  May  1800; 
A.B.  Clare  Hall,  Camb. 
1822  ;  of  82,  Cromwell 
Road,  London  and  Wol- 
verton,  co.  Warwick. 
Sometime  Rector  of 
Wolverton ;  d.  at  St. 
Leonard’s,  22  Sep.1885; 
bur.  at  Kensal  Green. 


John  Harvey 
Thursby,  Esq. 
of  Abington 
Abbey,  co. 
Northampt’n; 
m.  1834. 


Stephen  Win¬ 
throp,  2d  son  ; 
A.B.  St.  John’s 
Coll.,  Camb. 
1830.  Of  Lon¬ 
don  ;  d.  unm. 


Edward  Gama¬ 
liel  Winthrop, 3d 
son,  A.B.  St. 
John’s  Coll. 
Camb.  1834  ;  of 
London;  d.unm. 


-"l - 

William  Win¬ 
throp,  4th  son, 
b.  1815  ;  B.A. 
Worcester  Coll. 
Oxford;  of  Lon¬ 
don  and  of 
Brighton  ;  d. 
unm.  1  Dec. 
1879. 


Mary  Ann,  d.  29  Aug. 
1867.  having  m.  April 
1826  Hon.  and  Rev.  Ed¬ 
ward  Pellew,  4th  son 
of  Admiral  Lord  Ex¬ 
mouth,  by  whom  she 
had  a  numerous  family; 
inter  al.  Fleetwood 
Hugh  Pellew,  Esq.,  and 
Frances,  wife  of  Sir 
Louis  Mallet,  K.C.B. 


Elizabeth,  m.  25  Jan. 
1843,  Charles  Baring 
Young,  Esq.,  partner 
in  the  house  of  Baring 
Brothers  &  Co. ,  2d  son 
of  Sir  Samuel  Young, 
Bart.  She  had  four 
children,  inter  al. 
Charles  Baring 
Young,  Esq.,M.P.  for 
Christ  Church. 


Benjamin  Win -=pConstance,  dau. 


tlirop,  b.  1838 
A.B.  Trin.  Coll., 
Camb.  1860. 
Late  18tli  Hus- 


A 


of  John  Chris¬ 
tian  Boode,  Esq. 
of  Lucknam,  co. 
Wilts. 


StephenWintlirop,=j=Louisa,  d.  of 
2d  son  ;  formerly 
Captain  22nd  foot. 

Served  with  dis¬ 
tinction  in  Con¬ 
federate  Army  in 
Virginia  ;  d.  13 
Mar.  1879,  leaving 
issue, 

A 


- 1 - 

Edward  Win¬ 
throp,  3d  son  ; 
B.A.  Worcester 
Coll.  Oxon, 1866; 
Rector  of  Wol¬ 
verton,  co.  War¬ 
wick. 


William 
Young  Win¬ 
throp,  4th  s. 
A.B.  Clare 
Hall,  Camb., 
1874.  Barris¬ 
ter-at-Law. 


Mary  Anne  Em¬ 
ma,  m....  Welch. 

Eleanor,  m.  ... 
Courtenay,  and 
d.  187... 

Emily  Frances. 

Florence  Ellen. 

Anne  Gertrude. 


Constance  Ella, 
m.  9  Aug.  1881, 
Francis  Smith, 
of  Wingfield 
Park,  co.  Derby, 
3d  son  of  the  late 
Martin  Tucker 
Smith,  M.P. 


The  Editor  has  endeavoured  without  success  to  ascertain  some  missing  names  and  dates  in  this  pedigree  and  the  one 
immediately  preceding  it. 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


31 


Wmtbrnp  of  JUttigtm. 

( See  Pedigree  C.) 

Samuel  Winthrop  was  some  time  a  student  at  Harvard  College  in  N.E.,  but  left  without 
taking  a  degree  in  order  to  seek  liis  fortune  in  foreign  countries,  his  father  having  experienced 
pecuniary  reverses.  A  letter  of  his,  written  in  Latin  soon  after  his  arrival  in  Teneriffe  in  the 
autumn  of  1645,  shows  that  he  had  obtained  employment  in  the  Counting-room  of  a  merchant 
named  Ferdinand  Body  whose  partner  was  one  David  Stephens,  and  where  his  fellow-clerk  was 
“a  Knight’s  sonne  of  Kent,”  whom  he  finds  not  capable.  In  the  spring  of  1647  he  removed  to 
Barbadoes,  and  some  months  later  to  St.  Kitts,  whence  he  wrote  his  father  that  he  had  received 
much  kindness  from  the  Governer,  Sir  Thomas  Warner,  and  his  lady,  and  also  from  one  Captahi 
Clement  Everett.  In  January,  1648,  he  was  in  Fayal  on  his  way  to  Holland,  where  he  arrived 
early  in  April  and  where  he  married  a  few  months  later.  He  alludes  to  the  miscarriage  of  a 
number  of  letters  about  this  time  and  the  particulars  of  his  marriage  are  wanting,  but  Governor 
Winthrop  wrote  from  Boston  to  his  son  John  in  November,  1648,  “your  brother  Samuel  is  manned 
in  Holland  to  a  Dutchwoman  and  intends  to  come  this  way  and  so  to  Barbadoes.”  This  marriage 
must  have  taken  place  in  June  or  July,  *as  Samuel  makes  passing  allusions  to  his  “wife”  in 
a  letter  dated  “Rotterdam,  August  7,  1648.”  In  the  summer  of  1649  he  was  heard  of  in  Antigua 
where  he  was  acting  as  agent  for  one  “  Mr  Rich  of  London,”  and  where  he  appears  to  have 
resided  until  1653-4,  when  he  removed  to  St.  Kitts,  where  several  of  his  children  were  bom. 
In  September,  1657,  he  wrote  his  brother  John  expressing  his  deep  regret  that  the  cares  of  his 
business  had  obliged  him  repeatedly  to  postpone  a  visit  to  N.E.,  but  he  says  he  has  sent  his  two 
elder  sons  thither  to  be  educated.  In  October,  1660,  he  alludes  to  the  possibility  of  his  settling 
in  N.E.,  but  adds,  “  I  have  taken  much  paines  out  of  nothing  to  gett  an  estate  and  it  lying  in 
landes  and  plantacons  I  cannot  so  order  them  as  to  be  a  certain  profit  to  me  in  my  absence.” 
In  or  about  1662  he  returned  to  Antigua,  where  he  resided  until  his  death.  In  July,  1664,  he 
writes  his  brother  John  that  he  had  received  more  favours  than  he  expected  from  the  new  Royal 
Governor,  Lord  Willoughby,  and  that  the  latter  had  confirmed  him  in  his  lands.  In  166|,  he 

writes  his  brother  John  an  interesting  account  of  the  taking  of  Antigua  by  the  French,  whereby 

he  suffered  heavy  pecuniary  losses.  Not  long  before,  as  a  result  of  his  intimacy  with  the 
celebrated  George  Fox  during  the  latter’s  stay  in  the  W.I.,  Samuel  Winthrop  had  become  a  Quaker, 
and  in  Besse’s  “Sufferings  of  the  people  called  Quakers”  (vol.  ii.,  p.  371),  is  a  tribute  to  the 
courage  displayed  by  him  when  a  Commissioner  to  treat  with  the  French.  This  change  of  faith 
does  not  appear  to  have  lessened  the  esteem  in  which  he  was  held,  as  in  166f,  he  was  appointed 
Lieutenant-Governor  of  Antigua  and  he  continued  in  office  until  1671.  His  letters  to  his  family 

in  N.E.  give  the  impression  of  a  man  of  affectionate  disposition  and  deep  religious  feeling.  The 

latest  of  them  which  has  been  preserved  was  written  in  January,  1673,  from  Barbadoes,  whither 
he  had  gone  on  a  visit  to  Loi’d  Willoughby.  He  died  in  Antigua  in  the  following  year  at  the 
comparatively  early  age  of  forty-seven.  West  Indian  records  are  in  such  a  confused  and 
unsatisfactory  condition  that  his  will  has  not  been  found,  but  it  is  known  to  have  been  dated 
December  8,  1672. 

His  wife  died  in  the  latter  part  of  December,  1675,  and  her  will  (dated  December  11,  1675) 
is  in  the  Registry  at  St.  John’s,  Antigua  (lib.  C.  p.  97.) 


32 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


She  bequeaths  to  son  Henry  “  all  my  part  of  Barbuda  Island  with  all  the  stock.”  To  son 
Samuel  “all  my  part  and  share  in  [illeg.]  and  Long  Island,  with  the  stock,  as  well  as  my  part 
of  land  and  storehouses  at  St.  John’s,  and  my  gray  Barbuda  horse.”  To  dan.  Eliz:  Williams  £6 
sterling  to  buy  a  tankard.  To  dau.  Sarah  Jones  ten  thousand  pounds  of  muscovado  sugar  and 
a  silver  tankard.  To  dau.  Rebecca  Winthrop  forty  thousand  pounds  of  muscovado  sugar  (one-quarter 
of  it  on  her  attaining  the  age  of  sixteen),  “also  my  side  saddle  and  furniture  thereunto  belonging 
<k  a  negro  man  to  wait  upon  her,  likewise  ye  negro  girl  named  Lucy,  and  a  silver  porringer,  & 
all  my  wearing  apparell.”  To  son  Stephen  “  all  my  part  &  share  of  Groton  Hall  plantation,  also 
a  negro  named  Barabas,”  but  if  son  Stephen  die  before  he  marries  the  legacies  to  him  to  fall 

to  son  Samuel.  “  To  Jonas  Langford,  for  his  care  &  trouble  in  looking  after  me  in  my  sickness, 

four  thousand  pounds  of  muscovado  sugar  &  my  great  Bible.”  My  three  friends  Samuell  Jones, 
Jonas  Langford,  and  Edmund  Hull  to  be  overseers.  “  My  will  is  that  true  Ministers  of  ye  Gospel, 
whom  ye  world  in  scorn  call  Quakers,  be  entertained  &  accommodated  freely,  &  assisted  in  wdiat 
business  or  occasion  they  have,  from  time  to  time  with  all  courtesy  possible.” 

The  son  Stephen  mentioned  in  this  will  died  in  childhood,  and  it  is  noticeable  that  there 

is  no  allusion  to  Joseph  Winthrop,  second  son  of  the  testatrix,  pi’obably  for  the  reason  that  he 

was  in  independent  circumstances.  He  died  in  the  autumn  of  1679,  and  his  will  (dated  October 
13,  1679)  is  on  record  at  St.  John’s  (lib.  C.  p.  117).  He  bequeaths  to  “  sister  Williams,  sister 
Sarah  Jones,  &  sister  Rebecca  Byam,  £10  each  to  buy  a  piece  of  plate.”  Residue  to  wife  &  dau. 
but  in  event  of  dau.’s  decease  without  issue,  then  to  issue  male  of  brother  Samuel,  failing  which 
to  issue  male  of  brother  Henry ;  “  provided  that  whomsoever  of  my  brother’s  sons  shall  enter  into 
my  estate  shall  pay  out  to  Samuel  and  Thomas  Williams  my  nephews  one  hundred  thousand  pounds 
of  sugar  to  each  of  them,  to  my  neice  Elizabeth  Williams  three-score  thousand  pounds  of  sugar, 
to  my  neice  Frances  St.  John  fifty  thousand  pounds  of  sugar.”  Major  William  Barnes  and  Capt. 
Samuel  Jones  to  be  overseers.  Beloved  wife  Katherine  and  dear  dau.  Sarah  sole  executrixes. 

The  foregoing  are  the  only  two  early  Winthrop  wills  which  have  thus  far  come  to  light  in 
Antigua. 

In  a  work  entitled  “  Antigua  and  the  Antiguans,”  published  in  London  in  1844,  and 
abounding  in  errors,  it  is  stated  that  the  sons  of  Samuel  Winthrop  “inherited  a  large  estate  from 
their  father,  but  by  means,  it  is  said,  little  creditable  to  the  parties  concerned,  were  deprived  of 
their  patrimony.”  There  appeals  to  be  no  evidence  of  the  truth  of  this  statement.  The  two  younger 
sons,  Joseph  and  Samuel,  died  while  comparatively  young  men,  leaving  landed  property  to  heirs 
female.  The  eldest  son,  Henry,  became  pecuniarily  embarrassed  and  most  of  his  land  was  sold. 


The  will  of  William  Milton,  or  Millden,  1st  husband  of  Samuel  W.’s  eldest  dau.,  Elizabeth, 
constitutes  Samuel  W.  one  of  his  executors,  and  devises  one  third  of  his  estate  “unto  my  espoused 
wife,  Mrs  Elizabeth  Winthorpe,  daughter  of  the  said  Capt.  Sam:  Winthorpe.”  Will  dated  Nov.  11, 
1666  (P.C.C.  Bence  32 ;  previous  probate  in  Antigua?) 

The  will  of  Col.  Samuel  Jones,  husband  of  Samuel  W.’s  dau.  Sarah,  is  dated  June  15,  1684 
and  makes  her  sole  heir  to  over  1,000  acres  of  land. 

The  will  of  Lieut.-Col.  Willoughby  Byam,  husband  of  Samuel  Winthrop’s  dau.  Rebecca,  was 
proved  March  21,  1692.  He  devises  his  property  in  trust  to  his  brother,  Capt.  Edward  Byam, 
and  his  brothers-in-law,  Major  Fran:  Carlisle  and  Capt.  Sam:  Winthrop,  for  his  two  sons,  William 
and  Samuel,  and  his  three  daughters,  Dorothy,  Elizabeth,  and  Sarah,  “  all  under  age  and  to  be 
sent  to  England  to  be  educated.”  His  wife  had  apparently  predeceased  him. 

E 


WINTHROP  OF  GROTON. 


33 


Stintljrop  lan&s  in  ©roton,  temp.  ©ftfoarfr  HU 

Lauds,  &c.,  holden  of  the  Honour  of  Clare,  temp.  Edw.  6. 

Adam  Winthrop,  fF.  f?  terr.  &  tent.  prat,  pastur.  «fc  bosc,  in  Groton  voc  Gales,  Ballards> 
Goodwyns  <t  Hersents  perquis  de  Jolie  Ball. 

Rental  of  the  honour  of  Clare  in  Duchy  Crt  of  Lane.  Add.  MS.  19077  fo.  326. 


Jfhte.  <§>ak  of  ©roton  Jltattor,  1651. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  diii  Regis  apud  West  in  in  crastino  Sci9  Martini  anno 
regnor  Caroli  dei  gra  Angl  Scotie  fFranc9  &  Hibiiie  Regis  fidei  defsus  Ac.  a  conqu  septimo  coram 
Rob  to  Heath  Rico  Hulton  fFran  cisco  Harvye  &  Georgio  Vernon  Justic9  &  alijs  dhi  Regis  fidelibj 
tunc  ibi  jlsentib3  In?  Johem  Gurdon  Armigum  quer9  et  Drugonem  Deane  militem  Deane  Tyndall 
ArmigVim  Emanuelem  Downing  geno^sum  Thomam  Gosliiige  geno^sum  Johem  Wintropp  Armigum  & 
Margaretam  vxem  eius  &  Johem  Wintropp  geno^sum  filiu  &  hered  apparent  ipsius  Johis  deforc9  de 
Manvio  de  Groton  cum  ptin  ac  de  octo  mesuagijs  decern  cotagiis  vno  molendino  centum  acris  trev 
quadraginta  acris  prati  centum  acris  pasture  octoginta  acris  bosci  cola  pasture  liba  Warenna  bouis  & 
catallis  felonu9  &  fugitiuore  vis  fFranc  pleg9  &  libtat  cum  ptin  in  Groton  Lynsey  Kersey  Edwardston 
&  Boxford  necnon  de  advocacoe  ecclie  de  Groton.  Vnde  plitm  conueucois  sum  fuit  inr  eos  in  eadem 
Cur .  Scilt  qd  pdei  Drugo  Deane  Emanuel  Thomas  Johes  Wintropp  Margareta  &  Johes  Wintropp 
recogn  pdea9  mannhim  tenv  colam  pasture  Warennan  boua  &  catella  felonu9  &  fugitiuore  vis  fFranc'1 
pleg1  &  libtat  cum  ptin  ac  advocacoen  pdcam  esse  ius  ipius  Johis  Gurdon  vt  ill3  que  idem 
Johes  het  de  dono  pVlcore  Drugonis  Deane  Emanuelis  Thome  Johis  Wintropp  &  Margarete  A  Johis 
Wintropp.  Et  ilt3  re  miser'1  &  quietclam9  de  ipis  Drugone  Deane  Emanuele  Thoma  Johe  Wintropp 
A  Margareta  &  Johe  Wintropp  &  hered  sue  pdeo  Johi  Gurdon  &  hered  suis  imppm  Et  pt9ea  ijdem 
Dr  ugo  Deane  Emanuel  Thomas  Johes  Wintropp  &  Margareta  &  Johes  Wintropp  concesser  p  se  & 
hered  ipsius  Johis  Wintropp  Armig1  qd  ipi  warant9  pdeo  Johi  Gurdon  hered  suis  pdea  maSiu  ten 
coiam  pasture  warennam  boua  A  catalla  feloniu  &  fugitiuore  vis  fFranc  pleg1  A;  libtat  cum  ptin  ac 
advoeacoem  pdcam  coht  pdcos  Drugonem  Deane  Emanuelem  Thomam  Johem  Wintropp  &  Margaretam 
it  Johem  Wintropp  A  hered  ipius  Johis  Wintropp  Armig1  imppm  Et  p  hac  recogn  remissione 
quietclam  Warant9  fine  &  concordia  idem  Johes  Gurdon  dedit  pdcis  Drugoni  Deane  Emanueli  Thome 
Johi  Wintropp  &  Margarete  &  Johi  Wintropp  trescentas  <fc  sexaginta  libi9  sterlingorp.  SufF. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Mich.  7,  Glia’1  I.,  Suffolk. 


F 


I 


Will  of  flogn:  floater,  1507. 

In  dei  nomine  Amen.  I  Roger  Ponder  of  great  Waldingfeld  in  Suff  the  xxiith  day  of 

ffebruary,  in  the  yere  of  our  lord  god  m1  v°  vii,  beyng  of  goode  mynde  and  remembrance  ordeync 
and  make  my  last  will  in  man9  folowyng.  ffirst,  I  bequeth  my  soule  to  almighty  god  and  or 
lady  seynt  Mary  and  to  all  the  holy  company  of  heven,  and  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  chapell 
of  great  Waldyngfeld  biforo  thymage  of  seiynt  Jamis.  It9  to  eury  poore  man,  woman  and  child 
that  cometh  to  my  burying,  ld.  It9  I  will  that  ther  be  dispended  at  my  xxx1  day  to  priestSj 
clerks,  childern  &  to  poore  people  in  like  some  as  ys  at  my  burying  day,  and  a  goode  dyner  at 
saide  xxx*1  day  for  my  neighbours  wMn  the  said  towne.  It9  I  will  haue  an  honest  and  a  secular 
priest  to  syng  for  me,  my  wif  and  all  my  frendys  soules  at  seynt  Jamys  aulter  in  the  church 
bieforesaid,  by  the  space  of  ij  yeres.  It9  to  the  Trynitie  pisshe  in  Cambrigge  xs  to  be  expended 
amongst  poore  people  to  pray  for  my  soule.  It9  I  bequeth  to  poore  peopill  in  Ashewell  pisshe  in 
harford  shyre  xs,  to  poore  people  of  Ware  xs,  of  hecon  xs,  in  lewton  xs,  in  hoddeson  xs,  pysshes 
in  herford  shire  :  to  the  poore  people  in  seynt  John’s  pisshe  of  Colchester  xs,  of  seynt  petir 
pisshe  in  Celebes?  xs :  to  the  poore  in  Melford  in  Suff  xxs,  in  Sudbury  xxs,  of  Acton  vis  viii'1,  of 
laneham  xs,  of  litell  Waldyngfeld  xs,  of  Edwardstowne  and  Grotton  to  eche  of  tlieym  xs,  of  boxforde 
xs,  of  Asheton  and  Newton,  to  eche  of  theym  xs.  It9  I  will  that  Elizabeth  my  wif  shall  yerely 
receyve  and  pceyve  the  proufitts  of  ii  mesuags  of  old  tyme  called  Colmans  and  Rawlyns  wliiche 
late  I  bought  of  Mr  Appulton  during  vii  yeres,  she  paying  chargs,  and  kepe  yerely  myh  obite 

daye.  It9  I  bequeth  to  Elizabeth  my  wife  my  place  which  I  dwell  yn  wfc  thapprtenncs  pasturs  and 

gardeyns  thereto  annexed  and  a  pastur  called  the  Pynde  w*  a  medowe  which  late  I  bowght  of  Mf 
Appulton  lying  ayenst  John  Appulton  yate  for  termo  of  hir  life,  and  after  the  decesse  of  the  Said 
Elizabeth  I  will  the  said  place  remayn  to  John  Pondere  of  lauenham  and  to  th’eirs  males  of  his 
body.  And  if  he  dyeth  wloute  vssue  male  and  Geoffrey  ffoot  myh  executor  than  beyng  on  lyve, 
said  place  to  be  orderd  by  said  Geoffry.  And  if  Geoffrey  be  decessed  at  that  tyme  than  I  will 
said  place  remayn  to  Cristyan  my  dough?  and  to  the  heirs  of  hir  body  laufully  begotten,  And 
for  defawte  of  heirs  than  the  foreseid  place  be  sold,  and  the  money  to  be  disposed  in  deeds  of 
charitie.  It9  to  Elizabeth  my  wif  all  myn  Ostyllments  of  household  [Ac.]  soo  that  she  shall  pay 
to  ewly  oo h  of  my  childern  xijd.  It9  to  the  said  Isbell  ij  mylche  kene.  It9  I  bequeth  to  Elizabeth 
my  wif  my  place  in  Sudbury.  It9  to  Cristian  my  dough?  my  place  called  Sheppards,  and  aftir 
[her]  decesse  1  will  said  place  remayn  to  Elizabeth  hir  dowght  to  hir  heyres  and  assign  for  eu. 
It9  to  the  said  Cristian  my  dyehouse,  to  hir  and  hir  heirs.  It9  to  Margery  Papforth  my  close 
callid  Chippecrofte  whan  she  cometh  to  the  age  of  xvpj  yeres.  If  said  Margery  dye  before  said 
age  I  will  said  croft  remayne  to  Elizabeth  Chcs?.  It.  I  bequeth  to  Margery  Papforth  my  maser 
which  ys  in  kepying  of  hir  moder  whan  she  cometh  to  the  age  of  xviij  yeres.  It9  I  bequethe 


PONDER  OF  BRAINTREE. 


35 


to  Roger  Coo  my  godson  a  place  which  I  boughte  of  William  Chamberleyn.  It3  to  John  Helyon 
my  godson  a  tent  lying  in  the  pisshe  of  Stoke  Neylond.  It2  to  Rauff  Rudlond,  John  Roodland, 
John  a  Wood  and  John  ffuller  my  godsonnys  to  eclie  of  theym  to  bere  me  to  church,  vi8  viij'1 
The  residue  of  all  my  goods  and  catalls  I  remytte  to  the  discretion  of  myn  exccutors  whom  I 
ordeyne  Geoffrey  ffoote  of  Melford  and  John  Pondere  of  lavenham  ;  and  I  bequeth  to  echo  of  them 
for  their  labor  xls  and  their  reasonable  costs.  And  I  praye  Mr  Roger  Martyn  of  Melford  to  be 
supvisor.  Witnesse  Mr  Henry  Holywood  pisshe  priest  of  Mych  Waldyngfeld,  Jamys  Hen!  chapleyn 
w*  Mr  Roger  Martyn  of  Melford,  Ac.  Probatum  xxvi  die  Octobris  anno  dhi  millimo  quingeteslmo 
octauo  jnr  Galfridi  ffoote  A  Joliis  Pondere  executor2. 

P.C.C.  C  Bennett. 


Will  of  |o!jn  fnnter,  1520. 

In  De  nomine  Amen.  The  vth  day  of  June  the  yere  of  our  lord  god  m1  fyue  hundred  and 
twenty  I  John  Pondyr  of  lauenliam  Clothemakr  in  my  hoole  mynde  being  and  good  remembraunce, 
loved  be  god  /  make  this  my  Testament  and  last  will  in  maner  and  fourme  Mowing  /  ffurst  I 

bequethe  my  soule  to  almighty  god  and  to  our  blissed  lady  and  to  all  the  saints  in  heveii  /  and 

my  body  to  be  buryed  in  the  churchyarde  by  the  Crosse  next  my  wif  in  lauenham  aforesaid  /  Itm 
I  bequeth  to  the  high  awter  for  my  pryue  tithes  and  offrings  necgligently  forgoten  vi6  viijd  /  Itm 
I  wille  haue  bestowed  in  deedes  of  charitie  at  my  buryall  daye  and  the  vijth  daye  and  the  xxxH 
daye  vi1  .  .  .  Itrh  I  bequethe  to  the  bildyng  of  the  Steplc  in  lauenham  iiij  markes  /  Itm  I  bequethe 
to  the  Churche  of  Hawsted  a  vestment  the  price  xls  .  .  .  Itm  I  bequeth  to  Johane  my  wif  xl1  to 
be  payed  to  hir  or  to  hir  assignees  .  .  .  she  to  see  my  childern  honestly  kepte  aftrc  my 
behauyi9  /  Itm  I  geue  and  bequethe  to  the  said  Johane  my  wif  all  my  household  stuf  ...  all  my 
woddc  that  is  payde  for  and  all  the  greyne  .  .  .  Itm  I  bequethe  to  Wilim  Pondyr  what  tyme  he 

come  to  xxi  yeres  of  age  xxki  mark9 - Itm  I  bequethe  to  Erne  Powndyr  what  tyme  she  cometh 

to  the  age  of  xxi  yeres  x  marks  .  .  .  Itm  I  bequeth  to  Johane  Ponder  what  tyme  she  come  to 
the  forsaid  age  x  marks  /  Itm  I  bequeth  to  Roger  Ponder  when  he  come  to  the  said  age  x 
marks  /  Itm  I  bequethe  to  John  Pondyr  at  the  forsaid  age  x  marks.  /  Itm  I  bequethe  to  SymoS 

Ponder  whan  he  come  to  the  saide  age  x  marks.  I  wolde  the  money  ...  if  all  decesse 

.  .  .  executoris  shall  dispose  it  in  dedys  of  Charitie  for  the  moost  lielthe  of  my  soule  and  all  Xpen 
soules.  Itm  1  bequethe  to  Thomas  Wyndas  iij1  xiij9  iiij'1  and  a  gowne  he  to  be  payed  at  the 
fest  of  pentecost  next  comyng  by  my  executours.  Whom  I  constitute  and  ordeyn  Robert  Tryppe 
and  Wilim  Powndyr.  And  also  I  will  that  the  said  Wilim  shall  not  medill  nor  do  in  no  man) 
a  cause  of  this  my  wylle  wtoutc  the  assent  and  counsaille  of  Robert  Tryppe  my  said  executour  / 
and  if  he  doo  I  will  he  bee  vttfely  expulsed  and  neu  aftre  to  medill  in  this  my  will  .  .  .  The 
Residue  of  all  my  Goodes  that  is  net  bequethed  nor  giffen  I  putte  thann  in  the  disposicon  of  mye 

Executours  to  dispose  in  dedes  of  charitie  for  the  helthe  of  my  soule.  I  geue  and  bequeth  to 

Robert  Trippe  for  his  labour  xl5  and  William  Ponder  if  he  will  be  welle  ordred  and  to  kepe 
his  pmyse  that  he  made  to  his  father  xls. 

Probatum  fuit  .  .  .  quarto  die  July  mvxx0  .  .  .  approbation  .  .  .  et  comlssa  .  .  .  Roberto 
Trypc  et  Willmo  Ponder. 

30  Ayloff. 


P.C.C. 


36 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  ^imoit  fontor  of  lottftoit,  1557, 

Symonde  Ponder  of  London,  Pewteier,  17  Feb.  1557.  To  be  buried  in  the  pish  church 
of  Sfc  Dunstanes  in  the  West,  whereof  I  am  a  plshioner.  To  my  brother  Wyntroppe  and  his  wief, 

and  to  my  brother  Temple  and  his  wief,  rings  of  golde.  To  my  sister  Whitiuge,  and  my  brother 

John  Ponder,  and  my  brother  Roger  Ponder  rings  of  golde.  To  my  brother  Willfn  Ponder,  if  he 
be  a  lyve.  To  my  well-belouyd  wief  Dorathee  Ponder  the  lease  of  my  house  :  she  to  be  full 
executrix  of  this  my  will.  Vnto  Thomas  Ponder,  my  sonne,  the  rents  of  Caves  house,  and  the 
two  houses  in  Chancery  Lane,  and  the  house  that  stand eth  in  the  gardeyn  to  dwell  in.  Vnto 
my  sonne  Henrie  Ponder,  if  he  be  a  Pewterer,  my  dwelling  place  for  the  terme  of  yeres,  and 
also  all  my  moulls  and  tooles,  and  fortie  pounds  in  money.  To  Thomas  my  sonne  xP‘.  To  my 

daughter  Margarctt  Ponder  at  the  daie  of  her  mariage  xlu.  In  Codicil,  dated  dated  11  August 

1558,  bequest  to  John  Temple,  my  brother  in  lawe.  Probatum  4  Aug.  1558  juramento  Dorothee 
Ponder  relict. 

[P.C.C.  37  Noodes. 


Will  of  Joljit  fontor  of  fBraintm,  1561. 

The  xiijth  day  of  Aprill  1561,  I  John  Ponder  of  Brancktree  within  the  countie  of  Essex, 
yeoman,  whole  of  mind  but  sicke  in  bodie,  do  make  my  last  will.  My  bodie  to  be  buried  within 
the  church  of  Braintree.  I  haue  bought  landes  of  my  brother  in  law,  William  Aylet  and  Margaret 
his  wiffe : — sayd  landes  shalbe  given  vnto  Elizabeth  my  wiffe,  and  to  her  heires  for  ever  in 

full  recompence  of  her  dower  in  all  my  landes  and  tenemets.  To  John  Ponder  my  sonne  all  my 

houses,  lands  and  tenements,  within  the  townes  of  Booking  and  Braintree,  to  him  and  his  heires 
for  ever.  Vnto  Elias  Witham,  my  wives  sonne,  the  somme  of  Ixx'',  which  I  stand  bound  to  pay 
him  when  he  come  to  the  age  of  xxij  yeares.  Vnto  my  sonne  in  lawe  George  Raymond  xxu.  To 

Joane  Ponder  and  Sara  Ponder  my  daughters,  to  either  of  them  twentie  poundes  at  their  severall 

ages  of  xxi  yeares,  or  the  day  of  their  mariage.  To  Prudence  Ponder  my  daughter  xxa  at  the 
age  of  xxi,  or  at  her  mariage.  Vnto  Roger  Ponder  my  sonne  xxxu,  and  Grace  Ponder  my 

daughter  xxh  at  the  sayd  severall  ags  or  mariages.  Vnto  Roger  Ponder,  my  brother,  my  gold 

ringe  with  a  deathes  head  theiron  engraved.  To  my  sister  Joane  a  Hewpe  of  gold  of  the  value 

of  two  angells  and  a  halfe.  A  Ringe  to  my  sonne  in  law  George  Raymond  ;  and  to  George 
Raymond  the  younger  xxs  to  be  deliuered  to  his  father.  To  my  sister  Winthropp  a  gold  rynge, 
Also  for  the  avoyding  of  controversies  between  Elizabetli  my  wiffe  and  John  my  sonne  for  the 

deviding  of  my  moveable  goodes  ;  sayd  goodes  shalbe  devided  by  fower  honest  men  of  Braintree. 
Residue  to  John  Ponder  my  sonne,  whom  I  ordeine  sole  executor,  desiring  my  loving  frynd  Nicholas 
Wilbore  to  be  the  supervisor  :  to  whom  I  give  an  old  Ryall  of  gold.  To  Elizabeth  Rowt  my 
wives  sister  xs,  to  be  payd  at  the  day  of  her  mariage.  Probatum,  25  April  1561,  Juramento 
Joliannis  Ponder  filij  et  executoris. 


London  Consistory,  “  Bullocke,”  1559—1591,  fo.  35. 


PONDER  OP  BRAINTREE. 


37 


(Mill  of  Kogn:  fonto,  1563. 

I  Roger  Ponder  Pson  of  Greate  Yeldam  in  the  Countie  of  Essex,  24  April  1563.  I 
commende  my  soule  to  almightie  God,  the  father  the  sonne  and  the  holly  Goste,  heleiuing  most 
stedfastly  to  obtaine  mercie  and  grace  at  Gods  handes  for  Jhus  Christes  sake,  th’only  sauior  and 
redemer  of  all  mankynde.  Lyeing  and  being  sicke  of  boddie  in  the  same  parrish,  at  the  making 
of  this  my  pnt  testamente  and  laste  wille,  my  boddie  to  be  buried  in  the  Churche  of  Sainte 
Margarets  of  Ipswiche.  To  John  Ponder  my  godson  my  best  furred  gowne.  To  my  sister 
Sturropp  my  fyne  black  gowne.  To  my  brother  Sturrupp  a  black  gelding.  To  Elizabeth  Ponder 
the  half  of  my  brass  and  pewter  ;  the  other  half  to  Elizabeth  Russhell  and  Ales  Whiting  my 
neecs.  To  Edward  Barret.  To  Harry  Russhell  my  cloake.  To  Robarte  Whiting  my  cassock  of 
Chamlet.  The  residue  of  householde  stuf  to  be  equally  parted  betwene  Rauf  Wliyting  and  Richard 
Whiting  my  nevews.  My  brother  in  lawe  Gilbert  Sturrupp  of  St  Margarets  parrish  in  Ypswicli 
aforesaide  and  John  Ponder  of  Brandetre  my  nevew  to  be  executors.  Mathew  Gooding  a  witness. 
Probate  apud  London  12  July  1563  Jur  Jonannis  Pounder  executoris.  Resuata  potate  Gilberto 
Stirrap  executori.  Deinde  12  Decris  Anno  pdco  dictus  Gilbertus  renunciauit. 

P.C.C.  28  Chayre. 

Roger  Ponder  was  appointed  Rector  of  Groton,  in  Suffolk,  in  1546  on  the  presentation  of 
Adam  Winthrop,  his  half  brother,  the  Lord  of  the  Manor  and  Patron  of  the  Church.  In  1558 
he  was  presented  to  the  Rectory  of  Yeldham  Magna  in  Essex  by  John  de  Vere,  Earl  of  Oxford. 
See  “Newcourt’s  Repertorium,”  Vol.  II.,  689. 


Cljattarn  Cantor  c  JKaitn,  1604. 

“  John  Ponder  of  Brainktre  in  the  Countie  of  Essex,  gentleman,  about  the  month  of 
ffebruary  in  the  nineteenth  yeare  of  Her  late  Majestie  Queene  Elizabeth,  did  buy  of  one  Joseph 
Man,  then  of  Brainktre  aforesaide,  the  mannor  and  capitall  messuage  called  Symnells  in  Hawsted 
and  Stysted  in  the  saide  countie  of  Essex.”  It  was  stipulated  that  purchaser  should  be  saved 
from  all  disturbance  of  Eleanor  the  wife  of  said  Joseph  Mann.  About  the  month  of  April  in 
the  thirty  seventh  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth  controversies  arose  which  were  submitted  to  arbitrators, 
and  agreements  were  concluded  ;  Mann  to  deliver  a  general  release,  which  was  signed  on  the  third 
of  July  following.  About  June,  1603,  Mann  made  his  will,  leaving  goods  of  great  value  to  Eleanor 
his  relict  and  executrix,  who  now  demands  dower  &c.  in  said  lands.  In  her  answer  the  widow 
bases  her  case  which  is  a  complicated  one,  upon  the  wording  of  the  release.  “  CompT,”  she  says, 
“  is  a  man  lyttered,  and  noe  doubte  did  rcadc  the  deed  before  he  ensealed  the  same.” 

Mitford  I.,  Bundle  6,  No.  138. 


38 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


®tll  of  faint  f)onkr,  Doctor  of  lata?,  1625. 

John  Ponder  of  Askeby  in  the  countie  of  Norff:  Doctor  of  Lawe,  1625.  To  the  poore  of 
Rollesby,  Thirne  and  Askby  in  Norff:  and  of  Braintree  in  Essex.  To  my  sonne  John  Ponder  of 
Panfeild  in  the  countie  of  Essex,  gent,  my  liowses,  lands  and  leases  in  the  countie  of  Essex.  To 
my  sonne  in  lawe  Thomas  Mayhewe  and  to  his  heires  lands  in  Billockby  in  Norff:  which  I  purchased 
of  him.  My  goode  ffrlnde,  M1'  Rob1  Lynsey,  Vicar  of  Martham  in  Norff:  to  be  supvisor.  I  gave 
my  sonne  in  lawe  Thomas  Mayhewe  40011  vppon  his  mariage  with  my  daughter.  Vnto  my  nephew 
and  godson,  sonne  to  Mr  Rob*  Smyth.  To  my  brother  in  law  Mr  Christopher  Bulluer.1  My 
brother  in  law  Mr  John  Smyth  and  his  wife.  To  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Ponder  my  plate,  leases, 
goods,  Ac.,  she  to  be  sole  executrix.  Probat  Elizabethse  Ponder  6  Dec.  1625. 

Norwich  Consistory.  Wills  1625,  fo.  267b. 


front  tljr  Kcjtstcrs,  Jltarjarcfs,  Ipafotclj. 


Burials. 

1563.  Roger  ponder  preest  and  parson  of  great  yeldam  yn  the  countye  of  Essex,  departyng  yn 

thys  parryshe  yn  hys  brother  yn  lawes  howse  Gylberte  Styrrupe  was  buryed  yn  thys 

cliurche  on  the  rnudayc  the  xxvj  daye  of  Apryll. 

1563.  Jone  styrrupe  wvfe  of  Gylberte  styrrup  sometyme  the  wyfe  of  Thomas  wbytynge  was  buryed 
yn  thys  cliurche  on  the  wednesdaye  the  viij  daye  of  September. 

1573.  Joan  ponder  syngle  woman  was  buryed  the  xxviij  daye  of  the  moneth  of  Julye  beynge 

tewsdaye. 

Marriage. 

1562.  Gylberte  Styrruppe  wydower  and  Joan  wbytynge  wydowe  were  maryed  together  on  the 

miidaye  the  xxli  daye  of  the  moneth  of  Apryll. 


1  Was  tliis  the  11  cozen  Bulwer  ”  named,  29tu  May  1579,  in  the  third  Adam  Winthrop’s  Diary  ? 


PONDER  OF  BRAINTREE. 


39 


3P oirter.  ISHlnttng  of  3TpsVutcf). 


Adam  Winthrop  of  La-=f=Joan  Burton,  devisee  of= 


venhamin  Com.Suffolk 
1498,  1st  husband. 


John  Ponder,  her  2d  hus¬ 
band,  in  1520. 


:John  Ponder  of  Lavenham,  clothmaker,  kinsman  and  devisee  of  Roger  Ponder  of  Great 
Waldyngfeld,  1507.  Made  Will  P.C.C.,  30  Ayloff,  5  June  1520  ;  probate  4  July  ;  children 
under  age  ;  to  be  bur.  by  the  Cross  in  Lavenham  Churchyard. 


-L 


Adam  Winthrop  of 
Groton,  co.Suffolk, 
Esq.  ;  Will  P.C.C. 
2  Chayre,  20  Sept. 
1562  ;  bequest  to 
his  sister  Whiting 
and  his  brother-in- 
law  Willm  Burd  of 
Ipswich.  See  Win¬ 
throp  op  Groton. 


William  Ponder, 
eld.  son,  son-in- 
law  of  Myles 
Wytton,  of  La¬ 
venham  who 
made  will  P.C.C. 
6  Ayloff,  1521. 


Joan  Ponder,  1520, =j= 
widow  of  Thos 
Whiting,  20  Apr' 
1562  when  she  m. 
2d  Gilbert  Stirrop 
of  Ipswich  ;  bur. 
Sept.  8,  1563,  in 
St.  Margaret’s 
church  ;  devisee  of 
Adam  Winthrop 
1562. 


Thomas  Whiting, 
of  Ipswich  ;  Will 
P.C.C.  in  Loftus, 
29  Sep. 1545;  Prob*- 
29  Apr.  1561  ;  to 
be  bur.  in  St.  Mar¬ 
garet’s  Church,  in 
that  town  ;  lands 
in  Tuddenham,&e. 


Roger  Ponder, 
Rector  of  Gro¬ 
ton,  on  pres11  of 
Adam  Winthrop 
1546;  R.  of  Great 
Yeldham  1588  ; 
Will  P.C.C.  28 
Chayre  ;  bd  in 
St.  Margaret’s, 
Ipswich,  26 
April  1563. 


John  Ponder  of 
Braintree,  co. 
Essex;  Will  Cur. 
Ep.  Lond.  13 
April  1561, prob1 
25  Ap.  names 
his  sister  Win¬ 
throp,  and  his 
brother  Sir  Rogr 
Ponder  elk., 
Elizth  Rowt,  &e. 


Simon  Ponder, =^Doro- 


Citn  &  Pewterer 
of  London  ;  will 
P.C.C.37Noodes 
17  Feb.  1557, 
names  sister 
Whiting  and 
brother  Win¬ 
throp  ;  prob1  in 
Aug.  1558. 


thy 
Child¬ 
ren,  m. 
at  St. 
Peter’s 
Corn- 
hill, 
1539. 


Thomas 
Whiting  of 
St.  Margar¬ 
et’s  parish, 
Ipswich, 
Will  P.C.C. 
16  Peter, 28 
Mar.  1571  ; 
probate  in 
May  1573, 


=Marion. 


t  '  ~  r 

Matthew,  2d  son. 
Richard,  1563. 
Elizabeth,  1571. 
Alice,  1571.  1563. 


Ralfe  Whiting,  de¬ 
visee  of  his  uncle 
Roger  Ponder  1563. 
3d  son. 

Robert  Whiting, 
1563. 


John  Ponder  of  Braintree, 
Gent.,  1594,  Nowell  c  Scott, 
Eliz.  B.  &  A.  ;  devisee  of 
his  uncle,  Roger  Ponder, 
1563  ;  m.  Eliz.  Wrought 
mar.  lie.  Cur.  Ep.  Lond, 
6  Jan.  1561, 


t — i  l  l — 

Roger  Ponder. 

Sara  Ponder. 

Prudence  Ponder. 

Grace  Ponder. 


Thomas  Ponder. 
Henry  Ponder. 
Margaret  Ponder. 
Susan  Ponder. 


John  Ponder,  LL.D.,  Rector  of  Rollesby,  Norff.  1591  ;  First  Fruits.  Rector  of  Ashbie,  Norff.  1603  ;  First  Fruits. 
Will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1  June  1625,  probate  6  Dec,  1625.  Inq.  p.m.  3  Car.  Ob.,  7  Nov.  1625.  Names  brothers-in-law 
Mr.  Christopher  Bullwer  and  Mr.  John  Smith.  Lands  in  Burdbrook,  Booking  and  Braintree,  co.  Essex,  and  in 
Billockby,  co.  Norfolk.  He  is  mentioned  amongst  the  Rectors  in  Thurne  in  Blomefield’s  History  of  Norfolk. 


L 


John  Ponder,  of  Pan¬ 
field,  co.  Essex,  gent. ; 
living  June  1625  ; 
dead  3  March  1628. 


=j=Martha,  sister  of  Thos.= 
Roberts,  of  Little  Brax- 
sted,  co.  Essex,  gent. 
Visitation  of  Assex,  A° 
1612. 


=John  Bigge, 
2d  husband. 
3  Car.  1628. 


Elizabeth 
Ponder, living 
A'-  1625. 


John  Ponder,  heir  to  his  grandfather  3  Car. 
Fine,  13  Car.  1,  68. 


.  .  .  ux.  Thomas  Mayliew,  s.  and  h. 
of  Thomas  Mayhew,  of  Billockby, 
co.  Norff:  Gent.,  who  made  will, 
P.C.C.  87  Meade,  proved  22  Sept. 
1618,  which  names  Dr.  Ponder  and 
his  Billockby  lands.  For  Mayhew, 
see  Norfolk  Visitations,  Harl.  Soc. 


then  aet  eight  years  and  upwards  Had  livery  of  lands  13  Car. 


i — l — i — r 
1.  Thomas  Whiting. 

4.  John  Whiting. 

5.  William  Whiting. 
Katherine,  1571. 


2.  Robert  Whiting, of=f  Thomasine,  devisee 


Ipswich,  goldsmith. 
Will,  Arch.  Sufi:  10 
Oct.  1607  ;  prob*-  7 
Mar.  1607,  his  cousin 
Robt.  Sparrow  to  be 
executor. 


of  Mr2  Dorothy  Spar¬ 
row,  A0  1596,  step¬ 
mother  of  Wm. 
Sparrow,  in  W  ill, 
Arch.  Suff. 


Marion  Whiting,  m.  William  Spar¬ 
row, Portman  of  Ipswich,  whose  will, 
Arch.  Suff:  is  dated  1  Sept.  1611, 
and  who  was  bur.  in  St.  Laurence’s 
church  1615.  She  is  the  “cousin 
Sparrow  of  Ipswich”  named  1604 in 
the  3d  Adam  Wintlirop’s  Diary. 
From  her  descend  the  Sparrows  of 
Ofton  whose  ped.  is  given  in  the 
Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664. 


Edward  Whiting, 
of  Ipswich  ;  A  dm. 
P  C.C.  IS  July 
1600,  to  John  Sale, 
his  children,  Wil¬ 
liam,  Edward  and 
Grace  Whiting  be¬ 
ing  minors. 


i  i  i  I 

Dorothy  Whi¬ 
ting,  1571;  wife 
of  John  Finch, 
1607. 

Alice,  1571. 
Margaret,  1571. 
Joan,  1571. 


1.  William  Whiting. 


2,  John  Whiting. 


3,  Thomas  Whiting. 


Elizabeth. 


Thomazine. 


Marion. 


i^arpt  of  Islington. 


Willi  of  Militant  SMjarpc  of  Islington,  1525. 

In  clei  nomine  amen.  In  the  yere  of  our  lord  god  m1  vc  xxv1,1  and  vpon  the  xxju  day  of 

Septembr  In  the  xvij  yere  of  the  Reigne  of  our  soueraigne  lorde  Kinge  Henry  the  viijth  I  William 

Sharp  being  hole  in  memory  and  seke  in  body  do  make  this  my  last  will  and  testament  in  man)  and 
fourmo  following/,  ffirst  I  bequethe  my  soule  vnto  almighty  god,  to  our  blissad  lady  saint  Mary  and 
to  all  the  blissed  company  of  hevyn,  And  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  parishe  Churchyarde  of 
Iseldon  [the  old  name  of  Islington]  before  the  west  dore  by  my  first  wife  hir  grave  .  .  .  Item 
I  bequeth  to  Robert  Sharp  my  sonne  and  to  Elizabeth  his  wife  in  redy  money  lxvis  viij'1  St.  .  .  .  Item 
I  bequeth  to  my  sonne  Robert  .  .  .  my  best  maser,  my  drynking  home  foted  and  banded  with  siluer 

and  gilt  .  .  .  and  my  best  salt  of  siluer  /  Item  I  bequethe  to  Agnes  Sharp  my  doughter  in  redy 

money  the  surae  of  viu  xiij3  iiij'1.  Also  I  bequeth  my  tenement  with  th’appurtennce  in  Canbury  holde 
...  to  my  wife  Mary  Sharp  for  terme  of  hir  lyfe,  and  after  hir  decesse  .  .  .  the  said  tenement  .  .  . 
shall  Remayne  to  my  forsaid  doughter  Agnes  Sharp  to  hir  heires  of  hir  body  laufully  begotten  .  .  . 
To  Mary  Sharp  my  wife  oon  tenement  ...  in  the  Prebend  holde  .  .  .  for  terme  of  hir  life  ...  to 
Remayn  to  my  sonne  Robert  Sharp  and  to  his  heires  ...  To  my  said  wife  .  .  .  medowe  grounde  .  .  . 
in  Hybury  for  terme  of  hir  life  ...  to  Remayne  to  my  sonne  Robert  Sharp  .  .  .  Item  I  bequeth  to 
my  suster  Margery  Thomson  in  money  vis  viij'1  .  .  .  Residue  of  my  goodes  to  my  wife  Mary  Sharp 
.  .  .  my  wife  sool  executrix  .  .  ,  Item  I  will  and  bequethe  x3  of  money  to  be  gevyn  to  diuerse  pour 
people  to  pray  for  my  soule.  Probat  xi  Dec.  1525. 

P.C.C.  40  Bodfelde. 


Will  of  Borofljn  ^cton,  1556, 

3  March  1556.  Dorothy  Acton.  To  the  collectors  of  the  poor  of  St.  TowKe  parish.  To  my 
cozen  Agnes  Wyntropp  my  clieyne  of  gold.  To  Adam  Purvye  my  lands  Ac.  in  Barking  co.  Essex 
and  to  his  heirs  for  ever.  To  Lettys  Purvye  his  wife  my  bracelett  of  gold  Ac.  To  myn  ante 
Sharpe.  My  cosyn  John  Paecock  haberdasher  and  Adam  Purvey  latherseller,  citizens  of  London, 
they  to  be  overseers  and  executors  together.  Residue  equally  to  Mathew  (?)  Owtred  and  Agnes  Owtred 
my  brother  and  sister  when  21  or  at  their  marriage.  The  curate  of  St.  Olaves  Southwark  a 
witness  10  March  1556.  Probat  8  March  1556  to  John  Pecok  et  Ade  Purvey. 

P.C.C.  8  Wrastley. 

From  an  Indenture,  dated  13  Sept.  2  Edward  VI.  [Close  Roll,  4.  Ed.  6.  5th  part]  we  learn 
that  Ellen  then  wife  of  Richard  Owtred  but  formerly  wife  of  Thomas  Ecton  of  Barking  in  Essex, 
had  sold  lands  (late  the  property  of  the  said  Thomas  Ecton  and  of  Gabriel  Ecton  their  son)  to  John 
Purvey  Citizen  and  leather  seller  of  London.  Dorothy  Acton,  or  Ecton,  who  made  the  above  will 
and  Matthew  Owtred  were  probably  children  of  this  Ellen,  but  the  exact  relationship  to  the  Sharpes 
and  Winthrops  is  as  yet  unknown. 


SHARPE  OF  ISLINGTON. 


41 


frarpe  of  3faltngton,  co.  ififlfoblesf*. 


Arms  : — Apparently  Or,  three  pheons  azure,  according  to  the  Emblazoned  Pedigree  of  Winthrop  (see  p.  9).  The  Armouries  give 
Or,  a  pheon  azure,  as  the  shield  of  one  of  the  numerous  families  of  the  name.  Other  Sharpes  bore  pheons  within 
bordures.  &c.  &c. 


Mary,  devisee,  relict  and  execu-= 
trix  of  William  Sharpe,  1525. 


=William  Sharpe  of  Islington,  co.  Middx.  Will,  P.C.C.  40  Bod-=f=.  .  .  1st  wife,  buried  in  Islington  cliurch- 


felde,  21  Sept.  1525  , 
Thomson,  his  sister. 


probate  6  Dec.  1525  ;  bequest  to  Margery 


yard,  before  the  west  door  of  the  church. 


Robert  Sharpe  of  Islington,  Gent.,  151S  ;  named  in  his  father’s=j=Elizabeth,  named  1525  in  her  father-in¬ 
will,  1525  ;  sold  lands  in  Tottenham,  1536  ;  Fine  28  H.  8.  I  law’s  will ;  married  before  1518. 


- 1 

Agnes  Sharpe,  named 
father’s  will,  1525. 


her 


Adam  Winthrop  of  Gro-=j=Agnes  Sharpe,  aged  18,  1534,  2d— William  Mildmay  of  Spring-=p.  .  .  dau.  of  Pas- 


ton,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  1st 
husband  :  m.  20  July 
1534.  Will  20  Sept.  1562; 
prob1  5  Jan.  following. 
See  WiNTHiuir. 


wife  of  Adam  Winthrop.  She  m. 
2d  Wm.  Mildmay  at  Groton,  8 
May  1563  ;  d.  13  May,  1565,  aged 
48  ;  buried  in  Springfield  Chancel, 
Essex. 


field  Barnes  co.  Essex,  Gent., 
2d  husband.  Will,  P.C.C.  10 
Holney,13Feb.  1570  ;  probate 
24  Feb.  1570  ;  i  bequests  to 
Susan  Winthrop,  &c.,  &c. 


chall  of  Much 
Baddow  in  com. 
Essex,  Esq.,  1st 
wife. 


.  .  .  Sharpe  of=j= 
London,  circa 
1538. 


Adam  Winthrop  of  Groton, 
2d  s.,  b.  10  Aug.  1548.  Re¬ 
fers  in  his  Diary  to  the 
Mildmays  and  to  his  cousin 
Joane  Muskett.  See  Life 
and  Letters  of  John  Win¬ 
throp,  vol.  i,  pp.  409,  410. 


— i 

Alice  Winthrop, 
dau.  b.  15  Nov.  1539  ; 
mar.  12  June  1563  and 
had  issue  ;  d.  8  Nov. 
1607  ;  buried  in  Spring- 
field  church. 


eldest=j=Sir  Thomas  Mildmay  of 
Springfield,  co.  Essex, only 
son,  Knighted  at  White¬ 
hall  23  July  1603.  See 
Winthrop’s  Diary.  Will 
P.C.C.  1  Capell,  14  Nov. 
1612. 


Henry  Muskett  of  Harles-: 
ton  Parva  in  co.  Suffolk, 
Gent.  Entered  pedigree  in 
the  Suffolk  Visitation  of 
1577.  Iuq.  post  mortem 
37  Eliz.  ;  buried  at  Harles- 
ton,  Parva,  1595. 


= Joane,  dau.  of  .  .  .  Sharpe 
of  Loudon,  2d  wife  ;  born 
1538  ;  died  21  July  1597, 
aet.  59  ;  bur.  at  Wether- 
den,  co.  Suffolk.  Visited  in 
her  last  illness  by  her 
cousin,  Adam  Winthrop. 


Nicholas  - 
Thurston, 
Gent., 1st  hus¬ 
band  ;  dead 
1592,  when, 
Hamon  Clax- 
ton  made  his 
will. 


rHeury  Muskett,  of  Fritton,  co.  Sufi'. —Catherine,  dau.  of  Ham- 
Gent.,  2d  son  ;  purchased  Fritton  pro-  on  Claxton,  Esq.,  of 
perty,  1598  ;  Fine,  Mich.  39  and  40 
Eliz.  Admon.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  24  April 
1613  to  Catherine  Brend  late  his  relict 
and  to  Robert  Brend  her  husband.  Ob. 
s.p.  Muskett  e.  Claxton ,  Eliz.  B.  and 
A.  relates  to  her  jointure. 


T~l 


-RobertBrend,  Grace,  wife  Alice,  mar.  Joane. 


Norwich  whose  Will  Cur- 
Ep.  Norw.  7  June  1592, 
describes  her  as  then 
widow  of  Nicholas  Thurs¬ 
ton,  and  refers  to  children 
of  said  Nicholas. 


of  Norfolk. 
Camden,  A" 
1612  ;  third 
husband. 


of  Thomas 
Betts  of 
Wetlierden ; 
mar.  lie.  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.  14 
Sep.  1582. 


at  Harleston 
Parva,  19 
Dec.  1588  to 
John  Bullen, 
Gent. 


Dorothy. 


G 


jfltUmtaj)  of  (Crrttugljam, 


Will  of  William  Jltil&mag  of  ^pringMtr,  1570, 

13  Feb.  12  Eliz.  Anno  Dni  1570.  Willm9  Myldmay  of  Spryngfelde  in  the  county  of  Essex 
gent.  My  body  to  be  bnryed  wbn  the  parrish  Church  of  Springfelde  a  foresaid.  I  will  that 
Will  no  Myldmay  my  sonne’s  eldest  sonne  shalhave  Sampford  Barnes  and  Barnes  myll  after  that 
xxtj  yeres  be  expyred.  Item,  I  do  give  vnto  Sara  Myldemay  my  sonne’s  doughter  my  two  Croftes 
of  land  at  Springfeld  after  twenty  yeres  be  expyred.  Item  I  do  give  vnto  George  Myldemay  my 

sonne’s  secunde  sonne  my  copihold  bowses  at  Moulsham  and  my  copyholde  at  the  Marshe  style. 

I  do  give  vnto  Mary  Celey  tenne  pounds  ;  vnto  Susan  Wintroppe  tenne  pounds  to  be  paid  hir  at 

the  day  of  hir  marryage.  Kesidue  of  my  goodes  to  Thomas  Myldemay  my  sonne  (whom)  I  do  make 

my  Executor.  Probate  24  ffeb  :  1570  Jurament  Thome  Myldemay  Executr. 

P.C.C.  10  Holney. 


Will  of  Holm  Jltittmtaij  of  ffirdingbam,  1580, 

29  March  1580.  John  Mildmaye  of  Creatingham  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk  gentleman.  To 
Thomas  Mildmaye  my  eldest  sonne  lands  in  Springfield  ;  also  one  hundred  pounds  out  of  house  and 
lands  in  Fremmingham  in  Suffolk,  which  are  to  be  sold.  To  him  the  house  I  dwelt  in  last  in 
Chelmsford.  To  John  Mildmaye  my  Sonne  one  hundred  pounds  when  six  and  twenty  years  of  age  and 
my  houses  in  Chelmsford.  To  my  daughter  Thomazen.  Copyhold  lands  to  the  said  Thomas 
Mildmaye  my  sonne.  To  Robert  Mi  Id  may  my  sonne  one  hundred  pounds  and  my  lease  lands  in 
Cretingham  and  Branston.  My  sonne  Humfrye  Mildmay  is  deade.  To  Thomas  Mildmaye  my  youngest 
sonne  two  farmes  in  ffinchefeild  in  the  County  of  Essex  :  he  to  go  to  schole.  To  my  youngest 
daughter,  Marian  one  hundred  pounds  at  her  age  of  three  and  twenty  yeares.  To  my  daughter 
Thomazens  two  sonnes  Anthony  and  Thomas  when  twenty  six  yeares  of  age.  Robert  Tovells  and 
Robert  Alderton  to  be  executors.  Comissco  28  Junij  1580  Thome  Mildmay  fil  ;  Robertus  Atherton  A 
Robertus  Towell  renunc.  P.C.C.  25  Arundell. 


MILDMAY  OF  CRETINGHAM. 


43 


Will  of  ®I)omas  JIttl&map  of  jframlhtgbant,  1601, 

Thomas  Mildemay  the  elder  of  Framlingham  in  the  county  of  Suffolk  gentleman,  10  April,  43 
Elizabeth.  My  lands  in  Framlingham  to  Thomas  Mildemay  my  eldest  son,  which  were  the  inheritance 
in  fee  simple  of  John  Mildemay  gent,  my  late  father,  being  purchased  by  him  of  one  William  Mynn 
gent,  and  Edmund  Nuttall  my  father  in  law.  Lease  also  from  the  Queenes  Majesty  to  Olive  my 
wife  until  Thomas  my  son  attaine  his  age  of  four  and  twenty  yeares.  To  my  son  Walter  Mildemaie 
lands  in  Chelmesford  in  the  county  of  Essex.  My  cosen  Humfrey  Mildmay  of  Danburie  in  Essex 
Esquire,  Lands  in  reversion  to  me  from  Edmunde  Nuttall  my  father  in  law  and  Sibill  his  wife. 
John  Nuttall  my  cosen.  To  Marie  Mildmay  my  eldest  daughter,  Thomazine  and  Elizabeth  Mildmay 
my  daughters,  and  Olive  Mildemay  my  youngest  daughter.  My  wife  sole  executrix.  My  brothers 
Robert  Mildmay  and  Thomas  Mildmay  of  Grays  Inne  to  be  supervisors.  Probate  9  May  1601. 

P.C.C.  33  Woodhall. 


Will  of  ffiimtmttr  iluttall  of  Jfrantltnjljant,  1609, 

Edmond  Nuttell  of  Framlingham  at  the  Castell  in  the  County  of  Suffolk  yeoman  23  Aug- 
1609.  To  Richard  Everis  of  Framlingham  yeoman  and  to  Grace  his  wife  my  grandchild,  one  of  the 
daughters  of  Humferye  Knivett  and  Anne  his  wife  my  daughter,  messuage  where  he  and  I  now 
dwell,  and  other  messuages  and  lands  late  Edward  Page  gent,  deceased.  To  Nicholas  Knivett  my 
grandchild,  son  of  Anne  my  daughter.  To  Mary  Digges  my  grandchild,  one  of  the  daughters  of 
Mary  Bedingfield  my  daughter  late  wife  of  Edward  Page  of  Framlingham  gentleman.  To  Thomazine 
Mildmaye  my  grandchild,  one  of  the  daughters  of  Ollive  Manister  my  daughter,  when  twenty  one. 
To  Elizabeth  Mildmay  my  grandchild  another  daughter  of  said  Olive.  To  Olive  Mildmay  my  grand¬ 
child.  To  Anthony  Mildmay  son  of  said  Olive  my  daughter  when  twenty  two  yeares  of  age.  To 
Edmond  Page  my  grandchild  son  of  Mary  Bedingfield  my  daughter  one  hundred  pounds.  To  Thomas 

Page  my  grandchild  when  twenty  three.  To  Elizabeth  Page  and  Sara  Page,  Robert  Knivet,  Edmond 

Knivett,  Henry  Knivett,  Frances  Knivet  (a  daughter)  and  Thomazine  Knivett,  my  grandchildren.  To 
Mary  Spaldinge  my  grandchild,  wife  of  Robert  Spaldinge.  To  Mary  Bodye  my  grandchild.  My  daughters 

Anne  Knyvet,  Olive  Manister  and  Mary  Bedingfield.  Thomas  Nuthill  my  brother  and  John  Nuthill 

my  nephewe.  Obligations  jointly  with  Edward  Page  of  Framlingham  Gent,  father  of  aforesaid 
Edward,  or  with  Mary  his  late  wife,  or  with  Edward  Page  son  of  Edward  deceased.  William 
Bedingfield  and  Mary  his  wife  my  daughter :  Humfrey  Knyvett  and  Anne  his  wife  my  daughter,  &c., 
Ac.  Probat.  6  Nov,  1609.  Archd.  Suffolk. 


44 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  ®  booms  JltUimtan,  1612. 

Sr  Thomas  Mildmaye  of  Barnes  in  the  parishe  of  Springefeild  in  the  countie  of  Essex  Knight, 
14  Novr  1612.  ffirst  I  commend  my  soul  vnto  god  my  maker  and  my  bodye  to  be  buryed  in 
the  parishe  churche  of  Springfeild.  Item  I  giue  vnto  my  graundchilde  Thomas  Mildmaye,  the 
eldest  sonne  of  my  sonne  Thomas  deceased,  landes  called  Southefeildes  and  one  tenement  called 
Mottett’s  ffee  and  croftes  and  parcells  of  land  in  Springfeild.  Item  to  Edward  Mildemay  my 
graundechilde,  brother  to  the  said  Thomas,  and  to  his  heires,  my  ffarme  called  Colviles  in 
Springfeild,  my  tenement  called  the  Chekquer  otherwise  Springfeilds  in  Chelmesford  and  [other] 
tenements  in  Chelmesford  and  Springfeild.  Item  I  giue  and  bequeathe  vnto  Walter  Mildemaye  my 
youngest  sonne  all  my  come  and  cattell  plate  Jewells  househould  stuffe  and  all  my  hoppoales  in 
the  hopgarden,  and  my  two  leases  that  I  hould  of  the  Kinges  most  excellent  Maiestie  in  Chelmes¬ 
ford  and  Mulsham,  and  all  other  my  moueable  and  ymmoueables  whatsouer,  whome  I  make  and 
ordeyne  my  sole  executor.  Sealed  in  the  presence  of  Edward  Brand,  Samuell  Billinge,  Nicholas 
Drane  and  Tho  Sherlocke.  Probatum  penultimo  die  mens  Januarij  Anno  Domini  1612  Juramento 
Walteri  Mildemaye  gen'osi  executori.  P.C.C.  1  Capell. 

At  the  time  of  the  making  of  this  will,  which  names  only  his  second  and  fourth  sons, 
Alice  Winthrop  the  testator’s  wife  had  long  been  dead. 


Will  of  ®  booms  JRUtiomg,  1613. 

Thomas  Mildemay  of  the  parish  of  St.  James,  Clarkenwell  in  the  County  of  Middlesex  gent. 
6  Dec.  1613.  To  be  buried  in  the  chancel.  To  Margaret  my  wife.  To  my  nephew  William 
Mildemay,  who  is  my  next  heire  at  law,  my  tenement  in  Chelmesford.  To  Thomas  Mildemay  my 
nephew,  sonne  &  heire  of  Thomas  Mildemay  my  late  brother,  one  hundred  pounds  to  be  paid  him 
at  the  hawle  of  Greys  lime  if  he  be  then  livinge.  To  my  nephew  Walter  Mildemay  brother  of  said 
Thomas  ;  nephew  Arthur  Mildemay  another  brother  ;  nephew  Anthony  Mildemay  another  brother. 
My  two  neices,  Mary  Boddye  wife  of  my  nephew  Thomas  Boddye,  and  Thomazine  Smithe  her  sister 
wife  of  William  Smithe.  To  my  neice  Elizabeth  Mildemaye  their  sister.  To  my  neice  Oliffe 
Mildemaye  fiftye  pound.  To  my  nephew  Anthony  Boddye  forty  pounds.  To  my  two  neices  Katherine 
and  Christian  Boddye  sisters  to  said  Anthony.  Scutchions  of  myne  own  armes  to  be  pynued  vpon 
my  coffin.  Supervisors,  Aslacke  Lanye  of  Pulliam  co.  Norfolk  Esqr  and  Lionell  Edgar  of  Ipswich 
Gent.  My  sayed  neiphue  William  Mildemaye  nowe  to  reclayme  hymselfe  from  drincking,  swearing 
and  playing,  wherunto  he  liatlie  been  formerlie  muche  given.  Probatum  ult  die  Dec.  1613  juramento 
Willielmi  Mildemaye  executoris  nolat  in  testamento.  P.C.C.  114  Capell. 

Thomas  Mildmay  of  St.  James’  Clerkenwell,  was  first  cousin  to  Sir  Thomas  Mildmay  of 
Barnes,  whose  will  is  given  above. 


MILDMAY  OF  CRETINGHAM. 


45 


Will  of  Jltr  Ipntg  JRUtmtag  of  ® races,  1637. 

Sir  Henry  Mildmay  of  Graces  iii  litle  Baddou  in  the  county  of  Essex  Kk,  8  May  1637.  To 

bee  buried  by  the  bodie  of  my  late  wife  in  the  parrish  church.  Vnto  the  most  poore  and  impotent 
persons  of  Chelmisford  and  Moulsham,  sixe  pounds  ;  of  Springfeild,  five  pounds  ;  of  Little  Baddou, 
ffive  pounds  ;  of  Danburye,  ffower  pounds.  Vnto  Amye  my  wclbeloved  wife,  as  Augmentation  of  her 
Joynture,  my  ffarme  called  Imbers  in  Good  Esterne,  of  the  value  of  ffiftie  pounds  by  ye  yeare  and 
vpwards,  in  performance  of  Covenant  betweene  mee,  Brampton  Gurdon  Esqr,  her  (father,  and  herselfe 
before  our  marriage,  1  May  1616  :  Also  one  other  ffarme  called  Bellmers  in  Little  Baddou,  Arc.,  Arc. 
Vnto  Henry  Mildmay  my  sonne  and  heire  apparent,  my  Mannor  of  Graces  Arc.  to  him  and  to  his 
heires  males.  Vnto  the  said  Henry  my  sonne,  my  Manno1'  of  Newhall  in  Asheldhame,  my  Mannor 
of  Waltons  in  Purleighe  Arc.  Arc.  If  my  said  sonne  die  without  issue  male,  said  Mannors  to  my  sonne 
Walter  Mildmay  ;  and  if  he  die  without  issue  male,  to  Sir  Thomas  Mildmay  Kfc  sonne  and  heire  of 
William  Mildmay  my  eldest  brother,  and  after  his  decease  to  Henry  Mildmay  his  sonne  and  heire. 
For  want  of  issue  male,  said  Mannors  to  pass  to  Charles  Mildmay  second  sonne  of  said  Sir  Thomas 
Mildmay,  Thomas  Mildmay  the  third  sonne,  and  William  Mildmay  the  fourth  sonne  of  said  Sir 
Thomas  ;  and  if  the  said  William  die  without  heires  males  the  Mannors  to  remayne  to  Carevv  Heruy 
ais  Mildmay  my  nephew.  If  he  die  without  issue  male  said  mannors  to  my  brother  Walter 
Mildmay  Esquior  for  life,  and  after  his  decease  to  Ambrose  Mildmay  his  eldest  sonne  ;  he  dying 
without  heires  males,  to  Walter  Mildmay  his  second  sonne,  and,  failing  issue  of  the  said  Walter  to 
remayne  to  my  right  heires.  As  regards  lands  intayled  to  heires  begotten  of  my  former  wife  Alice 
Mildmay,  I  have  lately  sold  messuages  in  Swann  Alley,  Coleman  Street  London,  by  consent  of  Sir 
Arthur  Harris  Kfc  her  brother,  for  seven  hundred  and  forty  pounds.  This  somme  belongs  to  my  three 

daughters  by  her.  But  her  eldest  daughter,  late  married,  hath  had  of  mee  twelve  hundred  pounds  ; 

and  I  now  give  and  bequeath  twelve  hundred  pounds  a  peece  to  her  two  other  daughters  Marie  and 
ffrancis  Mildmay.  I  ordaine  Amy  my  wife  sole  executrix,  she  bringing  up  the  children  vntill  Henry 
my  sonne  be  one  and  twenty  yeares  of  age.  To  my  sonne  Walter  Mildmay  mills  and  millhouses 
and  ffarme  caled  Sales  in  East  Harringfield,  and  fower  hundred  pounds  to  be  paied  him  at  his  age 
of  one  and  twenty.  To  my  nephews  Sir  Thomas  Mildmay  and  Carew  Harvey  ats  Mildmay  and  their 
sister  ffrancis  Nutbrowne.  To  Edward  Mildmay  my  nephew  ;  William  Munings  my  cozen  :  and  my 
sonne  Harlackenden.  To  the  making  a  monument  in  Little  Baddou  church,  fforty  pounds.  My 
mapps  and  pictures  to  Amy  my  wife  for  life.  Brothers  John  Gurdon  Esquior,  Robert  Gurdon  and 
Edward  Gurdon  are  named  in  will  or  codicil.  Probat.  4  Nov.  1639  juramento  Dhe  Amie  Mildmay 
Relicte.  P.C.C.  176  Harvey. 

For  numerous  references  to  Sir  Henry  Mildmay  of  Graces,  and  a  letter  from  him  to  his 
cousin,  John  Winthrop  of  Groton,  see  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society’s  Collections,  Series  5, 
vol.  i.  Sir  Henry  was  High  Sheriff  of  Essex  in  1628,  and  his  canopied  tomb,  with  an  effigy,  is 
in  Little  Baddow  Church. 


46 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  8  atm  Jtttlimrag,  1669. 

Dame  Amy  Mildmay  of  Graces  in  Little  Baddow  in  the  County  of  Essex  widd  18th  May 
1669.  My  body  to  be  buried  in  Little  Baddow  Chancell  in  the  county  of  Essex  aforesaid.  I 
desire  to  be  laid  in  my  sisters  grave.  I  giue  to  my  beloved  daughter  in  law  Mary  Mildmay 
my  sonne  Henry’s  wife  the  sume  of  six  pounds  in  gold.  To  my  grand-daughter  Amy  Mildmay 
my  sonne  Henryes  eldest  daughter  the  sume  of  one  hundred  pounds.  To  Anne  Mildmay  my 
sonne’s  second  daughter,  Mary  Mildmay  my  sonnes  thii’d  daughter,  Lucy  Mildmay  and  Elizabeth 
Mildmay  my  sonnes  ffourth  and  ffith  daughters  the  sume  of  ffiue  pounds  a  peece,  and  all  my 
plate  to  bee  equally  devidcd  betweene  them.  I  giue  to  ffra :  Mildmay  my  sonne’s  sixth  daughter 
twenty  mark  in  money.  To  Robert  Mildmay  of  Terling,  my  sonne  in  law  and  to  his  wife.  To 
my  grandson  Robert  Mildmay  and  to  his  sister  Amy  Mildmay  tenn  pounds  a  peece.  To  my  brother 
Jo :  Gurdon  of  Ason  in  the  county  of  Suffolk  Esquire,  his  wife,  his  ffoure  sonnes,  Phillip,  Nathaniell, 
Brampton  and  Barrett,  his  three  daughters  Judeth  Gould,  Anne  Gurdon  and  Amy  ffourth.  To 
my  sister  Saltanstall,  my  sister  Joyce  Gurdon  and  her  sonne  James  Gurdon  and  John  Gurdon  and 
to  their  sister  Anne  Gurdon.  To  my  neece  ffisher,  my  neece  Leeds,  my  sister  in  law  my  brother 
Brampton’s  wife,  my  daughter  Wallopp,  my  son  Harlackenden  and  to  his  wife.  To  my  cousen 
Raymond  of  Ipswich  and  to  her  daughter  Russell.  To  Mr.  Edward  Alston  of  Newton  in  Suffolk 
three  pounds.  I  doe  make  null  all  my  former  grants,  of  all  my  lands  in  Bulmer  in  the  County 
of  Essex,  Lavenham,  Preston  or  Brenteley  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  and  I  doe  hereby  giue  all  my 
lands  in  Essex  or  Suffolk  or  elsewhere  vnto  my  sonne  Henry  Mildmay  and  his  heires  for  ever. 
All  the  rest  of  my  goods  att  Graces  or  elsewhere  I  giue  to  my  sonne  Henry  Mildmay  whom  I 
make  and  appoint  sole  cxecutor.  I  the  said  Dame  Amy  Mildmay  haue  to  this  my  last  will 
and  testament  sett  my  hand  and  seale.  And  now  Lord  what  waite  I  for,  my  hope  is  in  thee. 
Prepare  me  for  my  change  and  receiue  me  into  the  armes  of  thy  mercy.  Probatum  octavo  die 
Januarij  1670  juramento  Henrici  Mildmay  filij  et  extoris.  P.C.C.  6  Duke. 

For  three  letters  from  Dame  Amy  Mildmay  to  her  husband’s  uncle,  Adam  Winthrop  of 
Groton,  as  well  as  for  two  letters  from  him  to  her  and  some  verses  written  by  him  ou  the 
birth  of  her  son,  see  the  first  volume  of  the  “Life  and  Letters  of  John  Winthrop.” 

We  learn  from  the  pedigree,  which  Henry  Mildmay,  Esqr  of  Graces,  the  son  above  alluded 
to,  entered  in  the  Essex  Visitation  of  1664,  that  Amy  and  Anne,  his  daughters,  were  the  children 
of  his  first  wife,  Cicilia,  da.  of  Walter  Barker  of  Salop,  Esqr ;  and  Mary,  Lucy  and  Elizabeth, 
the  then  issue  of  his  second  wife,  Mary,  da.  of  Robert  Mildmay  of  Moulsham, — the  sister  of 
Benjamin  Mildmay,  who  was  summoned  to  Parliament  10  Feb.,  1669,  as  Baron  Fitz  Walter. 


MILDMAY  OF  CRETINGHAM. 


47 


iftflttomag  of  Csse*. 


Arms  of  Sir  Henry  Mildmay  of  Graces,  1634.  Harl.  MS.,  1542,  fo.  39b.  Quarterly,  1  and  4,  Mild.may  :  Arg.  three  lions  rampant 
Azure,  armed  and  langued  Gules  :  2,  La  Rous  :  Azure,  on  a  canton  Or  a  mullet  Sable  :  3,  Cornish  :  Sable,  a  chevron 
embattled  Or,  between  three  roses  Argent.  Crest :  A  lion  rampant  gardant  Azure,  armed  and  langued  Gules. 

Thomas  Mildmay  of  Chclmesford  Esqr.=rAnne  d.  of  Reade. 


1.  Thomas  Mild¬ 
may  of  Mousham 
in  Com.  Essex  Esqr 
—Anne  d.  of  Gun- 
sonn.  A  quo  Mild¬ 
may  of  Moulsham, 
Knights&  Baronets. 


T 


_ _ i 


Mary  vx  Mathew 
Bernard.  Arg.  abeare 
musled  sabble  saliant. 

Tliomazinvx  Anthony 
Bouchier  Esqr. 

Joane  vx  Christopher 
Payton  Esq'. 


3.  John  Mild¬ 
may  of  Cre- 
tingham  in 
Com.  Suffolk. 
See  Pedigree 
A. 


Sr  Walter  Mildmay 
of  Apthorpe  in  com 
Northampton  Chan¬ 
cellor  of  the  Exche¬ 
quer.— Mary  sister  of 
Sr  ffrancis  Walsing- 
ham  Knt  secretary  of 
estate.  =p 


.  .  .  d.  of-y-2. 

Paschall  of  of 
Much  Bad- 
dow,  1st 
wife. 


William 
Barnes 
ffeld.  Will  P.C.C.  10 
Holuey,  12  Eliz.  1570  : 
prob1  24  Feb.  1570  : 
bequests  to  Susan 
Wiuthrop  and  Mary 
Celey. 


Mildmay— Agnes,  2d  wife,  da. 
in  Spring-  of  Robert  Sharpe  of 
Islington,  co.  Middx, 
and  relict  of  Adam 
Wiuthrop  of  Groton, 
Esq.  :  mar.  there  7 
June  1563  ;  died  13 
May  1565.  See 
Sharpe. 


Sr  Thomas=f=Lady  ffrances 
Mildmay  of  Radcliff  d.  of 
Mousham  Henery,  Earle 
Knt.  of  Sussex,  Lord 

/|\Fitz- Walter. 

A  quo  Mildmay,  Baron 
FitzWalter. 


rn - 

1.  Sr  Anthony  Myld- 
may  of  Apthorpe 
K night  ffather  of  Mary 
Counter  of  Westmor- 
land. 

Martha. 


2.Humffrey M yldmay  of  Danbury  incom 
Essex.— Mary  d.  of  Hen  Capell  of 
Hadam  in  com  Hertford  Esqr,  and  had 
issue, 2.  Sr  Hum ff  rcy  M  yldmay  of  Dan¬ 
bury  Knt  1634-  2.  Sr  Henery  M yld¬ 
may  Knt  Mr  of  the  Jewell  howse  1634  ■ 
John  :  Anthony  and  Mary. 


Sr  Thomas  Mildmay^ Allice  d.  of  Adam 


of  Barnes  in  Spring- 
ffeld:  married  at  Gro¬ 
ton,  Suffolk,  12  June 
1563.  Will,  P.C.C. 
1  Capell,  proved  30 
Jan.  1 612. 


Wynthorpe  of  Groton 
in  com.  Suff olke  :  b. 
15  Nov.  1539  :  ob. 
1607  :  bur.  in  Spring- 
field  Chancel.  See 

WlNTHllOP. 


1.  Willm=^Margerctt  d.  of 
Mildmay  Sr  George  Har¬ 
vey  of  Marks  Knt 
liftennant  of  the 
tower ;  mar.  at 
Romford, llJuly 
1590. 


dyed 
the  liff't 
of  his 
ffather. 


2.  Thomas 
Mildmay, 
married  and 
had  issue. 


Alice,  d.  of  Sr  =f=3.Sr  Henery  Mildmay  of  Graces  in^Amie  d.  of 


William  Harris 
of  Crixsey  in 
com  Essex  1  wiffc. 


the  pish  of  litle  Badow  :  Knighted 
in  Ireland  by  Sr  Arther  Chiches¬ 
ter  then  lord  deputy  about  the  end 
of  Aprill.  3.  Jacob.  Rex.  Will 
P.C.C.  176  Harvey,  8  May  1637. 


Allice  vx  Harlakenden  of 
Earles  Colne  in  com  Essex. 


ffrances. 


- 1 

Mary. 


Brampton  Gor 
don  of  Assing- 
ton  in  com  Stiff 
Esqr  2  wiffe. 


W alter  =j=Brulgctt  d.  of 


Mildmay 
of  Bad- 

dowl634- 


Ambrose  Jer- 
myn  of  Rush- 
brook  2  broth¬ 
er  of  Sr  Rob¬ 
ert. 


1.  Ambrose 
Mildmay. 


2.  Walter 
Mildmay. 


Judith  vx  Bcniamyn 
Wallenger  of  the  Pipe 
Office. 


1.  Henery  Mildmay,  eldest  son,  M.P.  for  Essex  temp.  Chas.  II.  He  mar. 
Mary,  sister  of  Benjamin  Mildmay,  Baron  FitzWalter,  great-grandson 
of  Sir  Thomas  Mildmay  and  Lady  Frances  Ratcliff. 


2.  Walter.  Elizabeth,  mar.  Robert 
Mildmay,  Esq.  of  Ter- 
ling.  Morant. 


Mary,  mar.  Charles 
Goodwin  of  Rowfant, 
co.  Essex. 


- 1 - 

Lucy,  mar.  Thomas 
Gardiner  of  Tolles- 
bury,  co.  Essex. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  Edmund 
Waterson  of  London. 


Frances,  mar.  Christian  Fowler  Katlierin,  wife  of  Col. 
of  London.  A  quo  the  Bridges  Thomas  Townsend. 
of  Goodneston,  baronets. 


Among  the  numerous  descendants  of  these  daughters  the  ancient  barony  of  FitzWalter  is  still  in  abeyance. 


Sr  Thomas  Mildmay- 
of  Barnes  Knt.;  bapt. 
at  Romford,  14  Dee. 
1592. 


:...  1  d.  oj  Sr  John  Ernley 
Knt  of  Wetham,  co.  Wilts. 


Careto  Mildmay  als  Harvey  of  Markes  in  Romffordz 
2  brother  of  Sr  Thomas  Mildmay  of  Barnes  Knt 
adopted  heire  to  Sr  Gawen  Harvey  Knt  whose 
cossen  and  heire  he  teas.  He  died  1676. 


■Dorathey  d.  oj  Willm  Gerrard  of 
Harrow  on  the  hill  in  com  Midlesex 
Esqr  sister  oj  Sr  Gilbert ;  mar.  25 
Sept.  1626  ;  died  1667. 


William  Mildmay  of=j=Sybilla,  dau.  of  Sir  Thomas 
Barnes,  only  son.  I  Palmer,  Bart,  of  Wingham, 
|  co.  Kent. 

A 

A  quo  Sir  William  Mildmay  of  Moulsham 
Hall,  Baronet,  who  died  s.p.  in  1772. 


1.  Gawen  Harvei/, 

1634- 


Tl 


2.  ffrancis  H  ervey,  Groom=pMary,  dau.  of  Matthew  Elizabeth. 


of  the  Jewell  Office,  1630. 


Honeywoodof  Charing, 
co.  Kent. 


Amy. 


/K 


A  quo  the  Miklmays,  Baronets,  of  Moulsham  Hall  and  Dogmersfield  Park,  the  St.  Johns, 
Viscounts  Bolingbroke,  the  Bouveries,  Viscounts  Folkestone  and  Earls  of  Radnor,  &c., &c. 


The  pedigrees  from  the  Visitation  of  Essex,  1634,  Harl.  MS.  1542,  are  printed  in  italics.  The  additions  are  mostly  from 
Berry’s  Essex  Genealogies  as  edited  for  the  llarleian  Society  by  Walter  C.  Metcalfe,  F.S.A. 


I 


48 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


PEDIGREE  A. 

iiHttomag  of  Cretingham. 

i 

Arms  of  Mildmay  of  Cretingham  as  impaled  by  Thomas  Boddye  of  Bieknacre,  1612,  Harl.  MS.  6065.  Boddye  :  Argent  on  a  fess  Azure  three 
pelicans  Or,  on  a  canton  Gules  two  staves  ragulee  in  saltire  of  the  first  surmounted  by  a  ducal  coronet  of  the  third  ;  impaling 
Mildmay  ;  Argent,  three  lions  rampant  Azure,  a  mullet  for  difference. 


John  Mildmay  of  Cressingham  in  com  Suffolk.  3.  sonn  of  Thomas  Mildmay- 
of  Chelmsford  elder  brother  of  Sr  Walter.  Of  Cretingham  co.  Suff.  gent. 
Will  P.C.C.  25  Arundel,  29  Mar.  1580 :  prob1  28  June  1580  :  lands 
in  Framlingliam,  &c.  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Harolds  in  Cretingham,  5  Eliz. 


ffrances  d.  of  Raynbow 
of  Ipswich.  ?  Rainbor- 
ougli  of  Ipswich. 


Thomas  Mildmay  tlie= 
elder,  of  Framlingliam, 
co.  Suffolk,  gent.  Will 
P.C.C.  34  Woodhall,  10 
April,  43  Eliz. ;  probate 
9  May  1601  ;  names 
Cousin  Humfrey  Mild¬ 
may  of  Danbury,  co. 
Essex,  Esqr  ;  mar.  at 
Framlingliam  1582. 


:01ive,  d.  of  Edmund 
Nuttall  of  Framling- 
ham,  co.  Suff.,  who 
made  will,  Arch.  Suff. 
23  Aug.  1609.  Shere- 
mar.EdwardManister, 
gent.  ;  his  will,  Cur. 
Ep.Norw.pro.14  Jan. 
1611  ;  described  as 
Olive  Moore,  19  Jas. 
Framlingham  Court 
Rolls. 


- ! — ! — ! - - - 

Humphrey  Mild¬ 
may,  dead  1580. 

Thomazin,  married 
to  John  Boddye  of 
London,  1580. 

Marian  vx  Andrew 
Atwood  of  Wilt¬ 
shire;  youngest  da. 


Thomas  Mildmay, the 
younger,  of  Sl  James, 
Clerkenwell,  gent., 
6  Dec.  1613,  when 
he  made  Will,  P.C.C. 
114  Capell ;  prob1  31 
Dec.  naming  Mar¬ 
garet  his  wife  and 
divers  of  his  kindred. 
To  be  buried  in  the 
chancel  of  St.  James’. 


2.  Robert  Mildmay  of 
Tarling  in  com  Essex 
1634  who  fined  ffor 
shreeve  and  Alderman 
of  London. —Joane  d. 
of  Sr  Richard  Deane 
of  London  Knt ;  de¬ 
visee  of  his  brother, 
1601.  Ob.  s.p. 


1.  John  MUd-zf= . 

may  of  Prit- 
lewell  in  com. 

Essex;  named 
1580  in  his 
father’s  Will. 


Willm  Mildmay  of  Woodham  Water,  heir 
at  law  to  his  uncle  Thos,  1813  ;  had  son 
and  heir,  Robert  Mildmay,  in  1634,  who 
succeeded  to  the  Terling  estate. 


i — i - 

1.  Thomas  Mild¬ 
may,  eldest  son, 
1613  devisee  of 
his  uncle,  Tlio- 
masMild  may  the 
younger;  bap.  17 
Jan.  1584 ;  living 
1639. 

WalterMildmav, 

1613. 


Arthur  Mildmay,  devisee- 
of  his  uncle  1613  ;  bap. 
1589  ;  of  Wickham  Mar¬ 
ket,  co.  Suffolk,  19  Sept. 
1627,  when  he  made  his 
will,  P.C.C.,  109  Skyn- 
ner,  leaving  lands  in 
Framlingliam  to  his  son. 


Alary,  his 
relict  and 
executrix, 

7  Nov. 1627; 
living  1639. 


Anthony  Mildmay, 
devisee  1609  of  his 
grandfather  Nuttall, 
and  of  his  uncle, 
Tlios  Mildmay  the 
younger  ;  bap.  1599. 
—Alice,  dau.  of  ..., 
named  in  the  Frank  - 
lingham  Court  Rolls. 


Mary,  eldest  da.,  wife 
of  Thomas  Boddye  of 
Bieknacre  Priory  in 
Essex,  second  son  of 
John  Boddye  and 
Thomasine  Mildmay 
above  named ;  devisee 
of  Edmund  Nullall, 
1609. 


- 1 — i - 

Thomasine, 
wife  of  Wil¬ 
liam  Smith, 
1613. 

Elizabeth, 
bapt.  1595. 


Olive  Mildmay, 
named  in  family 
wills,  1601,1609, 
and  1613,  youn- 
gestdau.  wife  ap¬ 
parently  of  Henry 
Hayle,  1  Car. 
Pramlinyliam 
Court  Rolls. 


Robert  Mildmay,  only  son,  aged  11  in 
1627,  ob.  s.p.  1639,  Thomas  Mildmay 
his  uncle  being  heir  at  law.  Fram- 
lingham  Court  Rolls. 


— — l 

Mary,  only  dau., 
underage  in  1627 
living  1639. 


Robert,  son  of  Anthony 
Mildmay  and  Alice  his 
wife,  bapt.  at  Framling- 
liam  7  Feb.  1627. 


John  Boddye. 


Anne  Boddye. 


Befog  of  Btcfutacre  ilrtorg. 

From  the  Visitation  of.  Essex,  1G12,  Harl.  MS.  1541,  fo.  135,  collated  with  Harl.  MS.  6065. 

John  Body  of  London.  Boddye,  Harl.  MS.  6065. =j=  Thomazin  d.  of  John  Myldmay  of  frumliugham  in  com  Suff. 


Anthony  Body  of  London; — Allice  d.  of  Thom  Body  of-^-Mary  d.  of  Tho.  Myldmay  Catherin  unmar ;  Christian  vx  Tlio  Parker 

devisee  of  Thomas  Mild-  Tuiynes  of  Bieknacre  prior  I  of  framlingliam  ;  devisee  devisee  of  Thomas  of  Com  Cambridgh  ;  devisee 

may  his  uncle,  1613.  Sussex.  in  com  Essex  I  of  Tho8  Mildmay,  1613.  Mildmay  her  uncle,  of  Thomas  Mildmay  her 

Ssoun.  |  1613.  uncle,  1613. 

I - , - 

John  Body. 


i 

Anne. 


Alabaster  of  l?at)lngl). 


Will  of  Sljomas  Alabaster,  1591, 

Thomas  Alabaster  the  elder  of  Hadleigh  in  the  Conn  tie  of  Suffolk,  clothier,  16  June  1591, 
To  Thomas  Alabaster  my  sonne  my  copy  land  in  Carsey  and  my  free  lands  there.  To  Ann  Still  > 
wife  of  Dr  Still,  for  life,  lands  in  Hadleigh  purchased  of  Stephen  Upchar  of  Dedham  co.  Essex, 
clothier:  should  she  sell,  my  sonne  John  Alabaster  can  buy  the  same.  My  daughter  Priscilla 
Lawrence  deceased,  late  wife  of  Thomas  Lawrence  ;  her  children.  My  daughter  Margaret  nowe  wife 
to  John  Dorington  of  London.  To  my  brother  Roger  Alabaster  and  his  children  the  sufhe  of  one 
hundred  pounds  and  four  tenements  in  Hadleigh.  Mary  wife  of  John  Alabaster  my  sonne.  To  Sarah 
Still,  Nathaniel  Still,  Ann  Still,  Elizabeth  Still,  Mary  Still  and  John  Still,  at  their  ages  of  one  and 
twenty  yeares.  To  John  Alabaster  the  younger,  sonne  to  .John  Alabaster  my  sonne,  and  to  his 
sisters  Anne  and  Mary  Alabaster.  I’robat  10  June  1592.  Cur.  Pnerog.  Cant.  51  Harrington. 


Will  of  Mjn  Alabaster.  1657. 

John  Alabaster  the  elder  of  Hadley,  Clothier,  20  April  1637.  To  Mary  my  wife  three  hundred 
pounds.  Thomas  Alabaster,  my  good  father  deceased,  assured  to  me  and  to  Mary  my  wife  my 
Maueion  Howse  &c.  in  Hadley  :  this  I  bequeath  to  my  sonne  John  Alabaster  and  his  heires  male. 
To  Thomas  Alabaster  my  sonne,  my  lands  in  Kersey  and  divers  lands  in  Nawton  and  Nedging  for 
life,  then  to  John  Alabaster  his  sonne,  and  to  his  other  sonne,  Thomas  Alabaster  the  younger.  To 
my  daughters,  Susan  Beamond,  Bridget  Bryan,  Sarah  Blewett  and  Anne  Cooke,  each  one  hundred 
pounds.  To  John  Beamond  and  Thomas  Bryan  my  sonnes  in  law  ;  Thomas  Holman,  John  Holman 
and  Mary,  wife  of  Jeffrey  Janings  my  Ivinsfolke  ;  William  Glanfield  my  brother  in  law  ;  Edward 
Beamond  the  elder  my  loveing  kinsman  ;  and  to  William  Brooke,  my  kinsman,  a  weaver.  Probat 
6  May  1637.  Cur.  Pnerog.  Cant.  83  Goare. 

H 


50 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  Militant  (ShmSeUt,  1657. 

The  sixth  daye  of  June  1637,  William  Glanfield  of  Hadley  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke,  clothier. 
I  give  my  free  houses  to  William  Allabaster,  and  part  of  my  sheepe.  To  John  Allabaster,  Marie 
Allabaster  at  her  age  of  twentie  yeares,  Thomas  Allabaster,  ffrancis  Allabaster,  Elizabeth  Allabaster, 
Sarah  Allabaster  and  Jane  Allabaster,  the  summe  of  tenn  poundes  [apiece].  All  other  things 

I  leave  to  yor  disposing.  Thus  leauiug  the  world  and  sicke  my  selfe,  as  a  Ancker  hold 

vpon  Christ  :  and  soe  fare  well.  All  the  rest  of  my  goods  I  give  vnto  my  louing  sonne  in  lawe 
Thomas  Allabaster  of  Hadley  aforesaid,  clothier,  and  vnto  Elizabeth  his  nowe  wife  my  daughter  ; 
said  Thomas  and  Elizabeth  his  wife  my  daughter  to  be  my  executors.  Probatum  25  Aug.  1637, 
Juramento  Thome  Allabaster  vnius  execrun3.  Reservata  ptate  Elizabethse  Allabaster  alteri  execut 

cum  venerit.  P.C.C.  114  Goare. 


Umpriaitxott  mt  tbt  teatl)  of  Jofjn  Alabaster,  1658, 

Suff.  Inquisico  Indentat2  capt2  apud  Stowmlkett  in  dco  com  Suff.,  Anno  regni  Dni9  nri2  Caroli 
Angl2  [Ac.]  Regs  Ac.  decimo  quarto,  Annoqj  Dni  1638,  Coram  Johe  Combes  Armig’o  Escaetore, 
post  mortem  Johis  Allabaster  defunct2  p  scrm9  Johis  Brasier  [Ac.,  Ac.]  pborf  et  legliu9  homin9. 
<Jui  dicunt  quod  Thomas  Allabaster  pater  pdci  Johis  in  dco  bri  noiat  fuit  seitus  de  et  in  tribj 
sepalibus  tenemt2  et  domibj  Ac  de  vno  alio  tenemnt2  tunc  in  tenur9  Rogi  Allabaster  fratris  $dci 
Thome  Ac  de  omibj  illis  clausis  campis  et  pastin'9  nunc  in  tenur9  et  occupacone  dci  Thome  Allabaster 
cognit9  p  nomen  et  noia  de  Hornefeild,  Le  Highfeild,  Le  Pondfeild,  Cocks  feild,  greate  Wakelings 
■et  litle  Wakelings  iacen9  et  existen9  in  Hadleigh  in  com  pdict2.  Idm9  Thomas  p  Indentur  inter  ipm 
Thomam  Allabaster  ex  vna  pte  et  Jofiern  Brond  Clothier  ex  altera  pte  gerent2  dat2  vltimo  die  Julij 
Anno  regni  Dhe  Elizabethe  nup  Regine  Angl2  Ac.  Yicesimo  sexto,  in  consideracone  maritagii  bend  et 
solemnizand  inter  Johem  Allabaster  in  dco  bri  noiat  fit  diet2  Thome  Allabaster  et  Mariam  Brond 
filiam  dci  Johis  Brond  conveint  et  agreavit  cum  dco  Johe  Brond  qd  ipe  idm9  Thomas  Allabaster  ante 
diem  solemnizaconis  pdict2  maritagii  faceret  bon9  cert9  et  sufficient  statum  absolut2  in  feod  simplic? 
■quibusdm?  Arthuro  Yeysey  et  Willo  West  de  omibj  pdcis9  terris  et  ceteris  pmissis  in  Hadleigh  Edicts 
ad  sepal2  vss  et  intencories  sequent2  (videlt)  ad  vsum  pdci  Thome  Allabaster  duran9  vit2  natural3 
dci9  Johis  Allabaster  fil9  sui  et  post  eius  decessum  ad  vsum  pdee  Marie  Brond  p  iunctui?  ipius 
Marie  durant  vita  sua,  et  post  eius  decessu  ad  vsum  hered  dci2  Johis  sup  corpus  diet2  Marie 
littime  pereand,  et  p  defectu  thn  hered  ad  vsum  rectorf  hered  ipius  Thome  Allabaster  imppetun2. 
Et  Jur2  pdict  dicunt  sup  scrm2  suu2  qd  pdem2  maritagiu2  hitum  et  soleminzat9  fuit.  Et  quod 
idm2  Johes  huit  exitu9  sup)  corpus  pdicte  Marie  Johem  Allabaster  filiu2  suu2  senior2.  Et  qd 
pdicta  Maria  adhuc  supstes  est  et  in  plena  vita  existit.  Vlterius  Jurator2  pdci  dicunt  qd  pdcus 
Johes  Allabaster  in  dco  bri  noiat9  diu  ante  obitu2  suu9  fuit  seitus  de  vno  mesuagio  cum  areis 
hortis  et  gardin9  in  Hadleigh  in  occupacone  cuinsdm2  Willi  Godfrey.  Ac  de  vno  tenemento  m 
Hadleigh  in  occupacone  cuiusdm2  Thome  Bower.  Ac  de  clauso  vocat2  Bradfeild  in  Hadleigh.  Ac 
de  Cheeses  meadowe  et  Becon’s  Meadowe  in  Hadleigh  pdict.  Idm2  Johes  p  cartam  suam  Indentat2 
geren9  dat2  decimo  quinto  die  Aprilis  Anno  regni  Dni  nri2  Jacobi  nup  Rgs  Angl  Ac.  vicesimo 
tam  in  consideracone  paterni  amoris  quern  idm2  Johes  gerebat  erga  Johem  Allabaster  filiu2  suus 


ALABASTER  OF  HADLEIGH. 


51 


senior9  quam  p  competent9  iunctur9  cuidm9  Sibille  Britten  vid  modo  vxor  diet9  Johis  Allabaster 
filij  senior9  ipius  Joftis  in  bid  noTat  dedit  eadm9  pmissa  ad  vsutn  pdicti  Johis  Allabaster  in  dco 
bri  nolat  p  ?mio  vite  sue  Et  post  eius  decessm9  ad  vsum  pdcorf  Joliis  Allabaster  fil9  ss  et 
Sibille  Britten  pdict9  et  hered  de  corporibj  et  p  defectu  tlis  exitus  remanere  inde  rctis  heredibj 
ipius  Joliis  Allabaster  filij  senior9  dci9  Joliis  in  ppetum9.  Ylterius  Jurator9  pdci9  dicunt  qd  p9dcus 
Jolies  in  dco  bri  noiat  die  obitus  fuit  seltus  de  dinlsis  pcellis  terre  vocat9  the  Wyndmilfeild  or 
Coes  feild.  Ac  de  vno  tenemento  nunc  in  occupacone  Willi  Bird  scituat  in  Hadleigh.  Ac  de 

vno  tenemento  cum  omibj  terris  in  Kersey  mine  in  occupacone  Thome  Bennett.  Ac  de  vno  campo 

vocat9  Chopchurch  feild  in  Hadleigh.  Ac  de  mesuag9  in  Kersey  vocat9  Kersey  Mill  nup  pquisit9 

de  -  Rolfe  gen9oso.  Ac  de  tribus  tenement9  in  Hadleigh  Bridgstreete  et  vno  tenemento  in 

Duck  lane  et  vna  pecia  terr9  sup  Bacon  lane  ac  de  vno  tenemento  vocat9  Holford.  Ac  de  terris 
libris  in  Nawton  et  Nedging  in  dco  com9  contincntib}  quadragint9  quinqj  acras.  Idm9  Jolies  p 
vltimam  voluntat9  geren9  dat  vicesiino  die  Aprilis  Anno  Dni  1637  devisa vit  eadm9  ad  effeu9  sequend 
(videlt).  Itm  my  will  is  that  Mary  my  loveing  wife  shall  also  quietly  inioy  for  her  ioyncture 
all  those  pcells  of  land  wch  I  purchased  of  Sr  Nichas  Stoddard  K*  by  the  name  of  Wyndemel  feild 
or  Coes  feild  and  a  peece  of  my  hopyard  for  and  duringe  the  terme  of  her  naturall  life  and  after 
her  decease  I  give  sd  lands  to  John  Allabaster  my  sonne  and  to  the  heires  males  of  the  sd  John. 
Itm9  I  give  vnto  Anne  Cooke  my  daughter  the  liowse  wherein  Wilim  Bird  nowe  dwelletli  for  term 
of  her  life.  Itm9  I  give  vnto  Thomas  Allabaster  my  sonne  my  tenements  &  lands  in  Kersey 
duringe  his  life  and  after  his  decease  to  Thomas  Allabaster  his  sonne  and  to  his  heires  for  ever. 
Itm9  I  give  unto  Thomas  Allabaster  my  sonne  my  house  it  lands  &  meadowes  in  Kersey  called 
Kersey  Mill.  Itm9  I  give  vnto  Thomas  Allabaster  my  sonne  three  tenements  in  Hadleigh 

bridgstreete  and  one  tenement  wherein - Ashmeere  dwelletli  in  Duck  lane  and  one  peece  of 

pasture  lying  vppon  Bacon  lane  all  wcLl  were  given  by  my  good  father  Thomas  Allabaster,  as  by 
his  last  will  appearetli,  for  the  payment  of  two  shillings  a  weelce  euiy  Sabboth  day  to  the  poore 
people  of  Hadleigh,  wcU  hath  beene  given  in  breade  to  thirteene  psons,  from  the  death  of  my  sd 
father  vnto  this  day.  And  I  charge  my  sd  sonne  to  see  the  same  continued  as  it  hath  beene 
hetherto  by  me.  Itm9  I  give  the  Incorporacon  of  Hadleigh  for  ever  my  tenement  in  Hadleigh 
called  Posford,  and  my  twelve  acres  of  land  in  Coram  Street  to  the  intente  that  the  yeerely  rents 
be  pd  to  an  honest  sober  &  sufficient  man  who  shall  teach  poore  children  of  the  towne  of 
Hadleigh  to  reade  English,  write  and  to  cast  accompts.  Itm9  I  give  vnto  Thomas  Allabaster  my 
sonne  all  my  freehold  lands  and  tenements  in  Nawton  and  Nedging,  and  after  his  decease  I  give 
the  same  to  John  Allabaster  his  sonne  and  his  heires  male,  and  for  want  of  heires  males  of  the 
said  John  lawfully  begotten  I  give  sd  lands  vnto  my  grandchild  Thomas  Allabaster  the  yonger 
and  for  want  of  heirs  males  of  sd  Thomas  the  yonger  I  give  the  same  to  the  next  heires  of 
my  selfe  John  Allabaster  the  elder  for  ever.  Ylterius  Jurator9  dicunt  qd  p9dcus  Jofies  Allabaster 
sic  scitus  vicesimo  primo  die  Aprilis  Anno  Regni  Dni  Kegis  nunc  ?cio  decimo  obijt  Et  qd  p9dcus 
Johes  Allabaster  filius  fuit  filius  suns  senior  et  pximus  heres  Et  tempore  mortis  diet9  Johis 
ptris  ss  fuit  etat9  quadragint9  annorf  et  amplius  .  .  .  p9dcm9  mesuag  in  Kersey  vocat9  Kersey 
Mill  teueban?  dno  Rege  nunc  vt  de  lionoro  suo  de  Clare  p  servic  mil. 

Abridged  from  the  original,  Miscell.  Inq.  p.m.,  14  Car.  I.,  Part  27,  No.  34. 


H 


52 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  Hr.  William  Alabaster,  1640. 

I,  William  Alabaster,  Doctor  of  Divinity,  30  March,  1640,  doe  make  this  my  last  Will  and 
Testament,  as  followeth.  ffirst  I  give  and  bequeath  my  soule  to  Allmightie  God,  hopeing  to  be  saved 
through  the  meritts  of  Jesus  Christ.  My  body  to  be  decently  buried  at  the  discretion  of  Nicholas 
Bacon  of  Grayes  Inn,  co.  Middlesex,  Esquire  ;  whorne  I  doe  make  sole  exequitor.  Probatum,  ultimo 
Aprilis  1640  Juramento  Nicholai  Bacon,  Armigeri.  Cur.  Prscrog.  Cant.  51  Coventry. 


Will  of  Jlobn  Alabaster,  1655. 

John  Alabaster  of  Hadley  co.  Suffolk,  Clothier,  5  Novr  1655.  To  my  grandchild  Sibilla, 
daughter  of  my  late  son  John  Alabaster  by  his  wife  Bridget,  all  my  lands  and  tenements  whatsoever 
with  remainder  if  she  die  without  issue,  to  my  brother  Thomas  Alabaster.  My  late  father  John 
Alabaster  made  me  his  executor.  I  ordain  my  daughter  Mary,  wife  of  William  Gilbcrde,  Clerke,  my 
sole  executrix.  To  said  Sibilla,  my  granddaughter  at  her  age  of  one  and  twenty  years.  Probate 
17  June  1659  to  Bridget  Appleton  als  Alabaster,  now  wife  of  Robert  Appleton  Esq.,  the  natural 
and  lawful  mother  and  curator  of  Sibill  Alabaster  a  minor  &c.  Cur.  Prterog.  Cant.  355  Pell. 


Intetttoe,  1668.  JUabaster  zt  ISnrrmtgb. 

Indenture  4  May,  20  Chas  II.  1668,  between  John  Alabaster  of  Of  tor.  co.  Suffolk  Gent,  and 
William  Sparrow  of  Ofton  Gent,  of  the  one  part,  and  Charles  Burrough  of  Sproughton  Gent,  and 
Thomas  Goodall  of  Bernards  Inne,  London  Gent  of  th’other.  Alabaster  and  Sparrow  have  sold  unto 
Burrough  and  Goodall  the  messuage  in  Nawton  &c.  devised  unto  Thomas  Alabaster,  deceased  father 
of  the  said  John  Alabaster  in  the  will  of  John  Alabaster,  grandfather  of  the  said  John.  [See  above 
for  the  Will  referred  to.]  Close  Roll,  20  Chas.  II.  22,  12. 


Will  of  lane  Alabaster,  1708. 

Jane  Alabaster  of  Stuston  in  the  County  of  Suffolk.  To  William  Alabaster  of  Claydon  ; 
Thomas  Alabaster  of  Ipswich  ;  Bryan  Alabaster  of  Allington  ;  Mary  wife  of  John  Rudland  ;  Sarah 
wife  of  John  Styles  of  Henly  ;  Amy  Alabaster  of  London  ;  John  Balls,  son  of  my  late  sister,  and 
ffrancis  Balls  his  brother.  Said  William  Alabaster  to  be  executor  :  to  him  all  my  goods.  Probatm 
4  Oct.  1708.  Gulielmo  Allablaster.  Arch.  Sudbur.  Goodwin  IV.  fo.  182. 


ALABASTER  OP  HADLEIGH. 


53 


WU  of  Jknjanun  fBr gan,  1703, 

Benjamin  Bryan  of  Stuston  co.  Suffolk,  Gent.  29  Oct.  1708.  To  be  interred  in  my  own 
seat  or  pew  in  the  parish  church  of  Stradbrook.  My  lands  in  Stradbrook,  Wingfield  Ac.  to  be  sold 
by  my  cozen  Edward  Bosworth  the  elder  of  Stuston,  clerke.  Rents  to  be  bought  in  Old  Buckenham 
co.  Norfolk  and  settled  on  Trustees,  for  the  minister  of  Old  Buckenham  for  the  time  being. 
Elizabeth  wife  of  said  Edward  Bosworth  the  elder.  Edward  Bosworth  the  younger,  of  Stuston,  clerke. 
To  my  Kinsman  Bryan  Alabaster  of  Arlington,  son  of  John  Alabaster,  late  of  Ipswich,  deceased 
and  to  his  brother  William  Alabaster  of  Claydon  co.  Suffolk.  To  Thomas  Alabaster  of  Ipswich, 
brother  of  said  William.  To  Mary  Rutland,  wife  of  John  Rutland  of  Claydon,  and  to  her  sister 
Amy  Alabaster.  To  all  the  children  of  John  Alabaster  of  Saxmundham,  brother  of  said  Bryan 
Alabaster.  To  my  kinsman  John  Bryan  of  London,  Gent.  My  Kinsman,  Hambling  Church,  now  or 
late  of  Worlingworth  co.  Suffolk.  To  the  eldest  brother  of  Thomas  Keeble,  formerly  of  Stradbrook, 
Dr  of  Physck  ;  or  eldest  son  of  said  eldest  brother  ;  or  nearest  relation  of  said  eldest  brother.  Of 
the  residue  of  my  goods,  one  third  part  to  Mary  wife  of  said  John  Rutland,  and  Amy  Alabaster, 
one  third  to  Bryan  Alabaster  my  Kinsman,  and  one  third  to  Willie  Alabaster  my  Kinsman.  Said 
Edward  Bosworth  the  elder,  and  Benjamin  Wilcox  of  Staples  Inn,  London,  Gent  to  be  my  executors. 
William  Burlington  a  witness.  Probat  5  Oct.  1709  to  Benjamin  Wilcox  &  Edward  Bosworth  sen. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  Wills,  1709-11,  fo.  128. 


Urgatt  af  ©hranfoston. 

From  Sir  Edward  Bysshe’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  1664,  in  the  College  of  Arms. 


Thomas  Bryan  of  .  .  .  descended  -f=.  .  .  . 
out  of  Ireland. 


Thomas  Bryan  of  Stradbrooke=pBridgett,  da.  of  John  Alabaster 
in  Com:  Suff:  |  of  Hadleigh  in  Com:  Sufi: 


Benjamin  Bryan  of  Thrandeston 
in  Com:  Suff:  Gfc  1664. 


The  Arms  of  this  family  are  not  recorded  in  the  Original  Visitation,  nor  in  Harl.  MS.,  1085. 


54 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


I 


Alabaster  Jnscriptimts — L#aMagb  OLtrtirclj. 

On  a  brass  plate,  beneath  the  figure  of  a  man  at  prayer  : — 

“  Here  lieth  buryed  Thomas  Alabaster,  who 
being  about  70  yeares  old,  whereof  having 
lyved  in  this  Town  a  Clothier  above  40 
yeeres,  always  a  godly,  vertuous  and 
discreet  life,  he  dyed  in  the  faith  of 
Christ  Jesus  Our  Saviour  on  the  12th 
day  of  Jan?  1592.” 

On  a  brass  plate  beneath  the  figure  of  a  man  : — - 

“  Here  lieth  buried  the  Body  of  John  Alabaster,  late 
of  this  Town,  Clothier,  who  lived  a  godly  &  discijfet 
life,  A  was  of  a  holy  conversation,  for  whose  death 
the  rich  did  mourn  &  the  Poor  did  much  lament. 

He  was  kind  to  the  Rich  A  merciful  to  the  Poore 

and  lovinge  to  all  :  he  was  twice  Mayor  of  this  Town 

and  was  married  to  Mary  his  wife  fifty  A  one  years  and  had 

by  her  tow  sons,  A  nine  daughters,  and  was  threescore 

and  sixteen  years  old,  A  departed  this  life  the  21st  Ap.  1637.” 

There  is  another  inscription,  much  defaced,  in  Latin  verse,  with  some  Greek,  to  the  memory 
of  “  Johannes  Alabaster,  mercator  .  .  .  mdcliv.”  Of  him  Candler  says  (Harl.  MS.  6071.)  “  He  was 
grandchild  to  John  last  named.  John,  his  father,  is  yet  living  this  26  of  May  1656.  He  left 
one  daughter  married  to  William  Gilbert  Rector  of  Burnt  Elie.” 


ALABASTER  OF  HADLEIGH. 


55 


Alabaster  of  ^ablctgl). 


Akms  : — Ermine,  a  cross  bow,  bent,  in  pale,  Gules.  (Arcubalistarius.)  Davy’s  Suffolk  Armoury. 


Alabaster  of . married  circa  1520.= 


Thomas  Alabaster  of  Hadleigh,  co.= 
Suff.,  clothier ;  Will  P.C.C.  51  Har¬ 
rington  16  June  1591  ;  Prob6  10 
June  1592;  M.I.  in  Hadleigh 
G'hurch  ;  ob.  Jan.  12  1592,  aged 
70  years. 


;Christian,  da.  of  John  Warren  of  New- 
borne,  co.  Suff.,  by  Dorothy,  da.  of 
Robert  Fortlie,  Esq. ,  of  Hadleigh.  Her 
sister  Agnes  Warren  was  mar.  to  Arthur 
Vesey.  Roger  Warren,  Esq.,  her  bro¬ 
ther,  died  1588.  Marl.  MS.,  1560. 


- 1 

Roger  Alabaster  of  Had-=p Bridget,  da.  of  Adam  Winthrop, 
leigh,  co.  Suff.,  where  di¬ 
vers  of  his  children  were 
born.  Concerned  in  an  Irish 
plantation,  1595.  See  Adam 
Winthrop’s  Diary. 


Esq.  of  Groton,  co.  Suff.,  mar. 
26  April  1567  ;  buried  at  Ther- 
field,  co.  Herts.,  Nov.  1614. 
IVinthrop’s  Diary. 


John  Alabaster  of= 
Hadleigh,  clothier; 
bapt.  there  1560  ; 
Will  P.C.C.  83 
Goare,  20  April 
1637  ;  prob' 6  May; 
M.I.  in  Hadleigh 
Church  ;  Inq.  p. 
mort.  14  Car.  ;  ob. 
31  Ap.  13  Car. 


;Mary,  da.  of 
John  Brond  of 
Boxford,co.  Suff. 
clothier,  whose 
Will  P.C.C.  91 
Wood  is  dated 
16  Dec.  1608  ; 
mar.  settlem* 
26  Eliz. 


Ann  ux.  John 

Priscilla  ux. 

Margaret  ux.  Thomas 

Ala- 

Still,  D.D., 

Thos  Law¬ 

John  Doring-  baster, 

devi- 

Rector  of  Had¬ 

rence.  She 

ton  of  London,  see  in 

his 

leigh, afterBis- 

ob.  vita  pa- 

Bapt.  at  Had-  father’s 

Will 

hop  of  Bath 

tris. 

leigh,  1563.  A°  1591. 

(Of 

and  Wells.  He 

— 

London, 

mer- 

ob.  26  Feb. 

Christian, 

chant, 

Close 

1607  ;  Will 
P.C.C.  33 

bap.  at  Had¬ 

Roll,  4  Jas  15 

leigh  1565 

pU) 

Windebank. 

12  Aug. 

1.  William  Alabaster, 
D.  D.  Rectorof  Therfield ; 
Chaplain  to  the  Earl  of 
Essex  ;  Author  of  Rox¬ 
ana  ;  Will  P.C.C.  51 
Coventry  30  March 
1640  ;  Prob1  30  April 
following.  Fuller's  Wor¬ 
thies.  Born  1568.  Win- 
throp's  Diary. 


"“I  l  i  l  l 

2.  George,  died 
1596.  _ 

3.  John. 


4.  Thomas,  bapt. 
1585;  died  1620. 

Sarah, died  1602. 

Priscilla. 


Thomas  Britten- 
of  Hadleigh,  1st 
husbd, a  clothier; 
Will  P.C.C.  47 
Dale  13  March 
1620  ;  Probate 
16  June  1621. 
Names  Sibill  his 
wife  and  their 
children.  % 


-Sibill,  da.  of=pl.  John  Alabas- 


JohnCalton 
ofHadleigh, 
clothier ; 
mar.  settle- 
m*  15  Ap.20 
Jas,  was  then 
Sibill  Brit¬ 
ten,  widow, 


ter  of  Hadleigh, 
son  and  h.,  aged 
40  and  upwards, 
13  Car.  ;  Will 
P.C.C.  355  Pell, 
5  Nov.  1655  ; 
Prob1  17  June 
1659. 


-~\ - 

Susan  ux.  John 
Beaumont  of  Bil- 
deston,  clothier, 
whose  Will  P.C.C. 
35  Cambell  is  dated 
25  Nov.  1641.  A 
quo  Beaumont  of 
Bildeston,  1664. 


— 1 - 

Bridget  ux. Thomas 
Bryan.  She  renupt 
Thos  Smith  of 
Thrandeston,  Gent 
whose  Will  P.C.C. 
87  Mico  is  dated 
23  May  1665. 


Sarah  ux.  Blewett, 
1665. 

Annux  .  .  .  Cooke, 
1637.  _ 

Mary ,  devisee  1591 
in  her  grandfat¬ 
her’s  will. 


John  Ala-=f Bridget,  da.  and  h.  of= 


baster  of 
Hadleigh, 
ob.  vita  pa- 
<m,A°1654; 
M.I.  in  Had¬ 
leigh 
Church. 


William  Bull,  elk 
Blois,  wife  of  Robert 
Appleton  1664.  Ad¬ 
ministered  her  father- 
in-law’s  goods,  June  17 
1659. 


Benjamin  Bryan  of  Stuston,  Gent.,  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of 
1664.  Will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1708,  with  bequests  to  the  Alabasters. 

~l — l 

Two  other 
das  referred 
to  in  the 


- 1 

Thomas  Ala¬ 
baster  of  Had¬ 
leigh,  A0  1624; 
devisee  in  his 
father’s  Will 
1637,  and  in 
John  Beau¬ 
mont’s  Will 
1641.  Living 
1655  ;  had  se¬ 
ven  children. 


=Elizabeth,  da. 
of  W,n  Glan- 
field  of  Had¬ 
leigh,  clothier 
whose  Will 
P.C.C.  114 
Goare  is  dated 
6  June  1637 ; 
Probate  25 
Aug. 


:  Robert  Appleton 
of  Preston,  co.  Suff. 
Esq., 1664;  entered 
Ped.  in  Bysshe’s 
Visit11  ;  2d  husbd 
of  Bridget  Bull, 
she  being  his  2d 
wife. 


T 


Mary  ux  Will™ 
Gilbert,  elk,  Rec¬ 
tor  of  Burnt  Ely 
1664.  Bysshe.  Will 
P.C.C.  140  Reeve  8 
Nov.  1675,  bequest 
to  wife’s  neice  Sy- 
billa  Hunlocke. 


r- 

John 


in 

will  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Britten 
their  half- 
brother 
1643. 


Alabaster  of=j=. 
Ipswich,  bap1  at  Had-  I 
leigh  1624  ;  dead  in  j 
1708;  devisee  1637 of 
his  grandfather  ;  of 
Oftou,  co.  Suff.  Gent. 
1668.  Close  Boll  20 
Chas  II.  22,  12. 


Thomas  Alabaster, 
bap1  at  Hadleigh 
1627,  living  1637. 

Francis,  named  in 
will  of  Rose  Small 
of  Hadleigh, P.C.C. 
445  Wootton,1655. 


George  Hunloke' 
of  Hadleigh,  co. 
Suffolk,  Gent. 
See  Martlesham 
Deeds,  No.  12, 
1  Sept.  1697. 
Davy. 


=Sibilla  Alabaster  sole 
da.  and  heir  ;  was 
Sibilla  Hunlocke  of 
Stowmarket,  widow, 
3  June  1725.  Deed 
No.  13. 


- l — l — l 

Isaac  Appleton, 
s.  and  h.,  1664. 

Bridget  Apple- 
ton. 

Anne  Appleton. 


I - 

1  Bryan  Alabaster 
of  Allington,  son 
of  John  Alabaster 
of  Ipswich.  See 
Will  of  Benjamin 
Bryan  A°  1708. 
Cur.  Ep.  N. 


'William  Alabas¬ 
ter  of  Claydon,  co. 
Suff.  1708;  devisee 
with  his  brethren 
of  his  cousin  Ben- 
jam11  Bryan  of 
Stuston,  Gent. 


- ! — | - - 

•'Thomas  Alabaster 
of  Ipswich,  1708. 

’John  Alabaster  of 
Saxmundham 
1708.  Had  issue. 


- n 

’Mary  ux.  John  Rut¬ 
land  of  Claydon,  A0 
1708. 

'Amy  Alabaster  1708 
devisee  with  her  bre¬ 
thren  of  Ben.  Bryan ; 


Daniel  Locke  of  Ipswich.  Dead  before  14  March  17 50.=Anne  Hunlocke.  Intended  marriage 
Martleham  Deeds  No.  20,  Davy,  confirmed  by  Court  9  May  1718.  Deed  No.  14.  A  widow 
Rolls  of  Kings  Hall  in  Clopton.  14  March  1750.  Deed  No.  20.  Davy. 


1  The  above  were  devisees  of  Jane  Alabaster  of  Stuston  in  Will  Arch.  Sudb.,  proved  in  Oct.  1708  ;  ami  of  Benjamin  Bryan,  who  also 
died  in  that  year. 


®esej>  of  l)mtlcsl)iim. 


Armorial  Jkarinjs. 

Harleian  MS.  1820,  before  alluded  to  as  being,  in  all  probability,  Raven’s  note  book  during 
his  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  1611-12,  has  a  sketch  on  folio  lb  of  the  arms  of  “Vesye,  per  Cooke  1576”: — 
Ermine,  on  a  cross  sable,  five  martlets  or.  On  fo.  73b  is  the  crest  of  “Vesy,  per  Cooke”: — An  arm 
embowed  and  conped  at  the  shoulder,  erect  from  the  elbow,  habited  gules,  the  cuff  ermine,  holding 
in  the  hand  proper,  five  leaves  vert ;  a  crescent  for  difference.  Harl.  MSS.  891  and  1560  give  but 
four  leaves.  The  eldest  branch  of  the  Suffolk  family  was,  as  we  know,  represented  by  the  Veseys 
of  Wix  Abbey  in  Essex.  At  fo.  2b  are  the  arms  of  “  Doyle,  wyfe  to  Vesye  ”  : — Gules,  three  stags' 
heads,  argent,  attired  or. 

The  arms  of  “  Vesey  of  Hintlesham”  in  the  Visitation  of  1664,  Harl.  MS.  1085,  had  a  mullet 
for  difference,  their  ancestor  having  been  a  third  son.  “  Vesey  of  Bradwell  ”  had  his  mullet  charged 
with  a  crescent.  “Vesey  of  Aldham  ”  had  a  similar  shield,  with,  however,  the  ominous  note  appended, 
“  See  Raven.” 

For  the  claim  of  the  Veseys  of  Aldham,  if  indeed  they  ever  made  it,  to  be  near  cousins  of  the 
Hintlesham  Veseys,  is  somewhat  doubtful.  It  is  clearly  discountenanced  by  their  arms,  as  tricked  by 
Raven  on  the  very  first  page  of  his  note  book,  Harl.  MS.  1820;  “Vesy,  per  Cooke”:  Ermine,  on  a 
cross  sable,  five  martlets  or,  all  within  a  bordure  of  the  last ;  impaling  Church,  Argent,  on  a  fess 
engrailed  between  three  greyhounds’  heads  erased  sable,  three  trefoils  slipped  of  the  last;  the  crest 
as  before  described  ;  the  whole  being  the  achievement  of  the  Thomas  Vesey  of  Aldham  who  married 
Elizabeth  Church  of  Maldon  in  Essex,  and  was  living  when  Raven  made  his  Visitation  of  Suffolk 
in  1612. 


Vmg  :  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  1577, 

Arms  : — Ermine,  on  a  cross  sable,  3  martlets  or. 

Ohkst  : — On  a  wreath  a  dexter  arm  embowed,  habited  gules,  the  cuff  ermine,  the  hand  proper  holding  four  leaves  vert. 


ltoberte  Vessy. 


William  Vesy  of=pJoan  doughter  of  Robert 
Hintleslia  Suff.  |  Cutler  of  Ipswiche. 


Robert  Vesy.=pJoan,  d.  of  William  Cardinall 
|  of  Bromley,  Essex. 

- L_ - - 


William  Vesy. 


John  Vesy. 


Robert  Vesy. 


John  Vesy,  2  soone.=f=Ales,  d.  of  ..  Cutler. 
Willm  Vesy. 


William  Vesy, 
3  sonne. 


Harl.  MS.  891,  fo.  1*>. 


VESEY  OF  HINTLESHAM. 


57 


Hmg  IJftrig  ms  :  Hesitation  of  Suffolk,  1612* 

Robt:  Vesye  mar:  it  had  issue  Wiftm. 

Wiftm  Vesye  of  Hintlesliam  in  Suff:  Gent:  mar:  Jane  d:  of  Robt  Cutler  of  Ipswich  <t  had 
issue  Robt  sonne  &  h:  John  2d  Wiftm  3d. 

Wiftm  Vesye  ye  3d  sonne  of  Wiftm  mar:  Eliz:  ye  d:  of  Edward  Renold  of  Holton  in  Suff: 
&  had  issue  Charles  sonne  &  h:  Wiftm  2d  Eliz.  mar:  to  John  Brage  of  Stratford  in  Suff:  Ann  mar: 
to  Anthony  Parmeter  of  Norff:  Mary  mar:  to  Thom  Cutler  of  Stansted  in  Suff:  Frauncis  vnmaryed. 

Charles  sonne  <t  li:  mar:  Eliz:  d:  of  Edmond  Doyle  of  Shatsom  in  Norff:  &  hathe  issue  Thom. 

Harl.  MS.  1820,  fo.  21b. 

Thomas  Vesy  of  Aldham  mar:  Eliza:  daughr  of  Gardiner  of  Suff  it  had  issu  Thomas  soiie 
&  heire,  Alic  mar:  to  Henry  Gun  vile  of  Glaston  in  Suff. 

Thomas  Vesy  soiie  &  h:  mar:  Elizabeth  d:  of  John  Church  of  Maulden  in  Essex  it  had  issue 
Thomas  soiie  &  h:  Edward  2d  soiie,  Mary  mar:  to  Thomas  Atherold  of  Burgh  in  Suff: 

Thomas  Vesy  soiie  &  h:  mar:  Ann  d:  of  John  Vere  of  Henley  in  Suff:  it  hath  issue  Thomas 
soiie  it  h:  age  1,  Ann  age  10,  Mary  age  9,  Eliza  age  7.  Harl.  MS.  1820,  fo.  14b. 


Umg  fUtogm  :  Hesitation  of  (Ksses,  1654. 

Robert  Vessey  of  Wickes=pJane,  d.  of  Willm.  Cardinall 
in  Com.  Essex.  I  of  Bromley  in  Com.  Essex. 


William  Vessey  of  Bedingliam=j=Mary,  d.  of  Robert  Beddiugfeld 
in  Norfolk,  1634.  I  of  Ditchingliam  in  Norffolk. 


Elizabeth,  ux.  Jane,  ux. 

John  Plamer  ...Cooke, 

of  Norff. 


Harl.  MS.  1542. 


1.  Robert  Vessey 
of  Hadley  in  com. 
Suffolk,  42  yere 
old. 


2.  William  Vesey= 
of  Wickes  Parke 
in  Wicks,  1634. 


:Grizell,  d.  of 
Richard  Bury 
nigh  Heckles, 
Com.  Suffolk. 


3.  Phillip  Vessey. 

4.  Thomas. 


William  Vessey,  about  15  veres  old  1634. 


2.  Thomas  Vessey. 


Mary,  1  ux. 
Lionel  Chauncey, 
after  to  Luke 
Wast  of  Wicks. 


I 


58 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Koto  of  HaMrijI),  1559. 

Robert  Vesey  of  Hadley  in  the  countye  of  Suffolk,  clothier,  11  Octr  1559.  To  the  children 
of  William  Vesey  by  his  first  and  second  wives,  when  of  age.  To  the  children  of  Lawrence  Vezey, 
viz,  : — Abram,  Isaacke,  and  Laurance  when  twenty  four,  and  to  Rose,  Dorathe,  Margaret,  Anne,  Alice 
and  Marye  Vesey,  when  twenty  years  of  age.  To  John  Smith,  sonne  of  William  Smith  of  Hadley  : 
Anthony  Gosnold,  sonne  of  Robert  Gosnold,  late  of  Ottley  :  Alice  Gosnold  my  maide  :  Judith  Gosnold 
daughter  of  said  Robert :  Elizabeth  Smith,  dwelling  with  me,  daughter  of  John  Smith  of  Elmsett : 
Roger  Ball  of  Hadleigh  my  kinsman  :  Katherine  Cole,  daughter  of  Rose  Cole.  To  William  Vesey 
my  sonne  my  lands  in  Lcigham.  To  Arture  Vesey  my  sonne  the  howse  I  dwell  in  for  life ;  then  to 
Robert  Vesey  his  sonne  ;  then,  for  lack  of  sonnes  to  said  Arthur  and  Robert,  to  Laurence  Vesey, 
sonne  late  of  Laurence  Vesey  sonne  of  me  ;  and  then,  failing  issue  males,  to  Isaacke  Vesey.  Lands 
to  Arthur  Vesey  for  life,  then  to  Robert  Vesey  his  eldest  sonne.  To  the  said  Arthur  Vesey  lands 
in  Roydon.  To  Dorathe  Vesey  daughter  of  William  Vesey.  To  Laurence  Smith,  sonne  of  John 
Smith,  lands  in  Roydon.  To  William  Vesey  sonne  of  William  Vesey  ;  Ingelbrighte  Smithe,  sonne 
of  John  Smith  of  Elmsett:  Henry  Vesey  sonne  of  William  Vesey:  Robert  Smith  sonne  of  John  Smith 
of  Elmsett :  Edward  Smith  sonne  of  John  Smith  of  Elmsett ;  John  Gosnold  sonne  of  Robert  Gosnold 
late  of  Ottley  :  William  and  John  Gosnold,  also  sonnes  of  the  said  Robert  :  John  Smith  sonne  of 
John  Smith  of  Hadley  :  and  Robert  Smith  th’elder.  sonne  of  John  Smith  of  Elmsett.  Probate 
7  May  1561  Juramento  Willmi  Vesey  executoris.  Cur.  Pnerog.  Cant.  16  Loftus. 


Mill  of  Militant  Item  of  Hintksljam,  1575. 

William  Vesey  of  Hintlesham  in  the  countie  of  Suffolk,  gent.  3  June  1575.  To  Jone  my 
wife  ;  William  and  Charles  my  sonnes.  My  Manors  Ac.  in  Hintlesham  to  William  my  sonne.  My 
Manor  of  Cockerells  in  Buxalle  to  Charles  my  sonne.  My  Manor  of  Wicks  or  Wykes  hall  in  Essex 
to  John  Veysey  my  sonne.  To  Jone  Veysey,  my  daughter  in  law.  Her  late  husband,  Robei’t  Veysey, 
my  eldest  sonne,  deceased.  William  Vesey,  sonne  of  the  said  Robert  Veysey,  my  heire  apparente. 
Probat.  18  Nov.  1577  Johanne  relicte.  Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  44  Dawghtree. 


Mill  of  Jloane  Umg  of  Htntksljam,  1586. 

Johane  Veysey  of  Hintlesham  co.  Suffolk,  widow,  5  Octr  1586.  My  lands  in  Hadley  co 
Suffolk  to  Thomas  Walton  my  sonne  and  his  heires  males  ;  in  default  of  such  heires  males,  to  Thomas 
Glede,  eldest  sonne  of  my  daughter  Glede,  deceased  ;  in  default  Ac.  to  Samuel  Glede,  William  Glede, 
Robert  Glede,  or  John  Glede  respectively  :  and  in  default  of  issue  of  the  said  John  Glede,  to  the 
right  heirs  of  Thomas  Walton  my  sonne.  To  the  children  of  my  said  daughter  Glede  : — Mary,  Sara, 
Abigail,  and  John  Glede.  Thomas  Walton  my  sonne  :  his  house  at  Hadley  bridge  wherein  Nicholas 
Strutt  now  dwelleth.  Robert  Cutler  my  brother.  My  late  husband  William  Veysey.  My  sonne 
William  Veysey.  Robert  Derhaugh  my  brother.  Dorothy  Maddocke,  wife  of  William  Maddocke  of 
Ipswich.  My  sister  Colman.  Jane  Walton,  my  sonne  Waltons  daughter.  My  said  sonne  Thomas 
Walton  to  be  executor.  Probat.  27  May,  1590.  Cur.  Prserog  Cant.  32  Drury. 


VESEY  OF  HINTLESHAM. 


50 


Will  of  Hrrfort  Bmljanglj,  1611- 

Robert  Derehaugh  of  Graies  Inne  co.  Middlesex,  10  Oct.  1611.  To  William  Vesye  of 
Hintlesham  co.  Suffolk,  gentleman,  my  nephew,  lands  in  Hintlesham,  to  him  and  to  his  heires  for 
ever.  I  have  purchased  messuages  and  tenements  in  High  Holborne,  in  S*  Giles’  parish,  in  the  names 
of  ffrancis  Derehaugh  of  the  Inner  Temple,  London,  and  William  Yesey  the  younger.  Lands  in 
Halsted  co.  Essex  demised  me.  My  lease  of  the  Manor  of  Sovendesse  co.  Oxon,  Ac.  &c.  :  Executors 

to  take  the  profits  to  the  performance  of  m}'  last  will.  I  give  the  sum  of  one  hundred  pounds  each, 

to  every  of  my  nephew  Veysye  of  Hintlesham’s  children  : — Charles  Veysey  the  first  son  ;  William 
Veysey  the  younger  son  ;  Elizabeth  Bragge  his  eldest  daughter  ;  Anne  Parmeter  his  second  daughter  1 
Mary  Cutler  his  third  daughter  ;  ffrances  Veysye  his  youngest  daughter.  To  Robert  Derehaugh^ 
second  son  to  my  nephew  William  Derehaugh  of  Gedgrave  co.  Suffolk,  one  hundred  pounds  when 
twenty  one.  To  James  Derehaugh  the  third  son,  when  eighteen.  To  Mary  Saxcen,  eldest  daughter 

of  my  said  nephew  William  Derehaugh  ;  and  to  Dorothy  Derehaugh  his  youngest  daughter.  To 

Thomas  ffrench  the  father,  and  Agnes  now  his  wife,  my  niece.  To  ffrancis  Derehaugh,  eldest  son 
to  my  nephew'  William  Derehaugh  the  messuage  abovenamed  in  Holborne.  To  James  Derehaugh  his 
youngest  brother.  To  Robert  Derehaugh,  the  second  son,  lease  lands  in  Halsted  demised  me  by 
Thomas  ffrench  the  father  and  Thomas  ffrench  the  son.  To  my  said  nephew  William  Veysye  and 
Elizabeth  his  wife  my  messuages  and  lands  in  Peasenhall.  ffrancis  Derehaugh  and  William  Veysye 
the  younger,  son  of  my  said  nephew  to  be  executors.  Probat.  8  Feb.  1612. 

Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  15  Capell. 


Mill  of  Militant  fceg  of  Braftfodl,  1644. 

William  Vesey  of  Bradwell  co.  Suffolk,  Gent.  14  Jan.  1644.  My  wife  to  be  executrix.  Two 
thousand  pounds  to  be  divided  betwixt  my  three  daughters,  Alice,  Anne  &  Elizabeth,  when  nineteen. 
My  Manor  of  Bacons  in  Gorleston,  &c.  to  Richard  Vesey  m3'  son  ;  in  default  of  issue  of  said  Richard, 
to  'William  my  son.  My  lands  in  Beccles  and  Worlingtou  to  said  William  my  son.  M3r  brother 
Charles  Yesey,  Gent.  ;  his  daughter  my  niece.  My  sister  Bragg;  her  sons  Nicholas  and  John;  hex- 
daughters  Tayloi-,  Creemer,  Kerington  and  Joanes,  and  her  daughter  Elizabeth  Bi-agg  To  1113'  father 
in  law  Robei-t  Bragg,  Gent,  and  to  his  son.  My  aunt  M18  Melburne.  My  father  Richari  Jenkinson 
Gent.  ;  his  bi-otlier  Edward  Jenkinson.  To  my  uncle  Henry  Jenkinson  Gent.  M3'  cosen  Charles 
Gosling  ;  his  children.  Gift  of  my  uncle  Robert  Derehaugh  Esq.,  who  lyetli  buried  in  the  chancel, 
to  the  poor  of  Flowton.  M3'  uncle  Francis  Re3'nolds,  Gent.  To  the  child  my  wife  is  withal  I . 
Probat.  25  Feb.  1644  Alicie  Vesey  relict.  Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  34  Rivers. 


Mill  nf  Milliant  Ifessn  of  Mi*,  1650. 

William  Vesey'  senr  of  Weekes  co.  Essex  Gent.,  5  Septr  1650.  To  be  buried  in  the  church. 
Lands  to  Anne  my  wife  for  life.  For  the  advancement  of  William  Vese3’  my  eldest  son,  63'  Indenture 
dated  10  May  1650  I  assured  him  m3'  Manor  of  Parkehall,  ais  Weekes  Parke.  To  Anne  Vese3r  my 
daughter  when  eighteen.  M3'  two  sons  William  Vesey  and  Thomas  Vesey.  M3'  lands  in  Laxfield 
co.  Suffolk.  Wife  and  Thomas  Vese3'  my  son  executors.  Probate  1  May'  1654  to  the  relict  and 
son  named  in  the  will.  Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  59  Alehin. 

I2 


60 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  William  teen,  Clerk,  1670. 

William  Vesey,  clerk,  28  July,  1670.  Mary  my  wife  to  be  sole  executrix.  Annuity  of  sixty 
pounds  per  aunum  payable  to  my  mother.  To  my  wife  lands  in  Lound  and  Beccles,  co.  Suffolk, 
and  reversion  of  farm  called  Bradwell  hall,  being  part  of  her  joynture.  My  brother  in  law  Thomas 
Haselfoote,  Gent.  Reversion  of  lands  in  Bradwell  to  William  Vesey,  son  of  my  brother  Richard 
Vesey  ;  he  to  pay  two  hundred  pounds  to  the  poor  of  Yarmouth.  My  brewhowse  in  Bishopsgate 
Street,  London.  William  Walley,  Gent,  my  father  in  law.  Ten  pounds  apiece  to  divers  ministers 
in  Essex.  Probat.  15  Nov.  1670,  Marie  relict.  Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  153  Penn. 


Will  of  William  tetfij,  1699. 

William  Vesey  late  of  Whatfield  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  gentleman,  21  June  1699,  did  say 
in  will  nuncupative  “  I  give  my  goods  to  my  wife,  Elizabeth  Vesey.”  This  was  sworn  to  27  July 
1699.  Commissio  23  Dec.  1 7 ‘.'0  Elizabethsc  Isacke  als  Vesey  ux  Mathis  Isaack  geh,  relict  predict 
Willim  Vesey. 

His  widow  placed  a  mural  monument  to  him  in  Whatfield  Chancel,  with  the  Arms  of  Vesey 
impaling  On  a  fess,  between  three  crosses  patee,  as  many  roundels.  He  died  21  July  1699,  aet.  50. 


Mill  of  ^targ  teeg,  1712. 

Mary  Vesey  of  Sprauton  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  spinster,  14  March  1712.  My  mortgage 
on  the  lands  of  my  cosen,  Shelly  Wainkford,  in  Flowton  in  the  aforesaid  county,  being  two 
hundred  and  fifty  pounds,  to  my  godson  William  Wainkford,  son  of  said  Shelly  Wainkford.  To 
my  brother  John  Veseys  eldest  daughter,  Sarah  Rowning,  wife  of  John  Rowning,  one  hundred 
pounds.  To  his  second  daughter,  Elizabeth  Hammont,  the  now  wife  of  John  Hammont  the  younger 
one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  nephew  Thomas  Vesey,  now  only  son  of  said  brother  John  Vesey 
fifty  pounds.  My  cosen  Robert  Cutler.  Rest  of  my  goods  to  my  said  brother  John  Vesey,  whom 
I  ordaine  my  executor.  Jurat  21  Januarij  1719. 

From  the  Original  Will  in  the  Registry  of  the  Archdeaconry  of  Suffolk. 


YESEY  OF  HINTLESHAM. 


61 


inscription — IBraDtactl  (Kljanrd, 

On  a  quaint  monument,  with  a  number  of  sculptured  figures,  and  the  arms  of  Vesey  of 
Hintlesham. — 

“  Monumentum  Gulielmi  Vesey  de  hac  villa  Armigeri. 

&  duarum  uxorum,  &  septem  liberorum,  sub  hoc  mon° 
sepulti  Anno  Domini  1644,  retatis  sure  63.” 

And  Rich.  Yesey  Esq.  &  Anne  his  wife  &  five  children. 


Jf mg  inscriptions — Hintlcsljam  ® Ijnrcl), 

Here  lieth  the  Body  of  Charles  Vesey  Gent,  who  tooke  to  wife  Elizabeth 
the  eldest  daughter  of  Edmund  Doyly  of  Shotesham  in  the  countie  of 
Norfolke  Esqr.  He  died  the  second  day  of  June,  1657. 

Here  is  filtered  the  Body  of  Thomas  Yesey,  Gent,  sonn  of  Charles  Vesey  Gent, 
who  married  the  daughter  of  Thomas  Bull  of  Flowton  in  Suff.  Gent,  by  whom 
he  had  6  sons  &  3  daughters.  He  dyed  in  ye  yeare  1679. 

In  Memory  of  Thomas  Vesey  Gent,  who  died  April  ye  21st  1736,  aged  54. 
And  Elizabeth  his  wife,  who  died  April  ye  26th  1716,  aged  24. 

Here  lyeth  the  Body  of  Mr  John  Beaumont,  late  of  Sproughton  in  this 
county,  who  married  Mary  the  eldest  daughter  of  Thomas  Vesey  of  the 
same  Town,  Gent.  He  died  4th  Octr  1743,  aged  29  years. 

Arms  :  Beaumont  with  Vesey  in  an  inescutcheon. 


Jfront  tbc  Hcjistcrs  of  Suffolk, 

Robert  Vesey,  Gent,  formerly  of  Weekes  Abbey  in  Essex,  and  lately  of  Whatfield  Hall,  aged 
about  (?)  thirty  three,  was  buried  19  July  1676. 

Mr  Richard  Vesey,  second  son  of  Mr  William  Vesey  late  of  Parkes  Hall  in  Weekes  in  Essex 
was  buried  23  July  1684. 

William  Vesey  of  Whatfield  Hall,  Gent.,  was  buried  22  June  1699. 

Robert  Vesey  and  Theophila  Jackson  were  married  20  Novr  1700. 


62 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Weseg  of  ^tnflesfjam. 


Robert  Vesey  of  Hadleigh  in  co.  Suffolk,  clothier.  Will  11  Oct.  1559  ;  probate=p 
7  May  1561,  RC.C.  16Loftus  ;  lands  in  Roydon  and  Leyhain,  co.  Suffolk. 


i — i - 

Arthur  Vesey  of 
Hadleigh.  See 
Pedigree  A. 

Laurence  Vesey  of 
Hadleigh.  See 
Pedigree  A. 


J 


William  Vesey  of  Hintlesham,  co.  =j=Joane,dau.  of  Robert  Cutler  of= 

Ipswich,  2d  wife  ;  half-sister 
to  Robert  Dereliaugh,  Esq. 
Her  Will  P.C.C.  32  Drury  is 
dated  5  Oct.  1586  ;  prob.  27 
May  1590  •  names  Thomas 
Walton  and  William  Vesey 
her  sons. 


Query,  If  the  Suffolk,  gent.  ;  mar.  settlement 
mother  of  with  Joane  Walton,  w°  14  Feb. 
Robert  and  6  Edw.  6;  Will  P.C.C.  44  Daugh- 
John  Vesey  ?  tre,  3  June  1575  ;  prob.  18  Nov. 

1577  ;  Inq.  p.m.  19  Eliz.  ob.  4 
;  July  1577.  Manors  in  Suffolk 
sj/and  Esses. 


=■ J ohn Walton  of  H  ad- 
leigh,  1st  husband  ; 
Will  P.C.  C.26  Bucke 
19  July  1551. 

Tho*  Walton  of 
Grays  Inn,  co. 
Middx.  21  Eliz. 


- rl 

Rose,  mar.  1  st  John 
Smyth  of  Elmsett; 
2d  ...  Snelling. 

See  Pedigree  A. 

Mary,  mar.  Robert 
Gosnold  of  Otley, 
co.  Suffolk,  Esq. 


Robert  Vesey  =pJ  oan,da.  of  William  Car-  John  Vesey  of  Lind-=pAlice,  da.  of  ...  William'Veseyof  Hintleshamq=Elizabeth,  da.  of 


of  Wix  Abbey, 
co.  Essex,  s. 
and  heir,  ob. 
vita  patris. 


diuall  of  Bromley  in 
Essex  ;  sister  and  devi- 
seeof  StephenCardinall, 
B.D.,  1575,  in  Will 
-P.C.C.  54  Pickering. 


sey,  com.  Suffolk, 
gent.  ;  Will  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.  prov.  30  April 
1594. 


Cutler  of  Eye  in 
co.  Suff. ;  Harl. 
MS.  1560  and 
S91. 


See  Pedigree  B. 


William  Vesey. 


Elizabeth. 


gent.;  Will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
10  April  1616;  prob.  15  July 
1616  ;  Inq.  p.m.  14  Jas;  ne¬ 
phew  and  devisee  of  Robert 
Dereliaugh,  Esq.  in  Will 
P.C.C.  15  Capell  A°  1611. 


EdwardReynold 
of  Holton,  co. 
Suffolk  ;  mar. 
settlemt  16  May 
IS  Eliz. 


- 1 

Charles 

Vesey, 

named 

in  his 

father’s 

Will  A0 

1575. 


1.  Charles  Vesey- 
of  Hintlesham, 
gent.,  1612;  s.  & 
h.14  Ja8,andtheii 
ait.  35;  had  livery 
of  the  Priory 
there  same  year. 
M.I.  in  Hintles¬ 
ham  Church  ;ob. 
1657. 


:Elizabeth,  da.  of 
Edmond  Doyley  of 
Shottisham,  co. 
Norfolk,  Esq.,  by 
Ann  da.  of  Sir 
John  Goodwin  ; 
mar.  settlement  24 
Sept.  3  Jas. 


1.  Elizabeth, 
ux.  John  Bragg 
of  Stratford, 
co.  Suff:  who 
made  Will 
P.C.C.  Lee,  1 
Sept.  1638  ; 
prob.  16  Oct. 
1638. 


2.  Ann,  ux.  An¬ 
thony  Parmen- 
ter  of  Norfolk. 


4.  Frances,  ux. 
Richard  Tavlor, 
1616.  Harl. 
MS.  1546,  fo. 
152. 


Anne,  da.  of=2.  William  Vesey=f= Alice,  da.  of  Rich- 


Brag  of 
Hatfield  Pev- 
erell,  co.  Es¬ 
sex  ;  said  to 
have  been  mo¬ 
ther  of  Wm. 
Vesey,  &c. 
Blois  MS. 


of  Brad  well,  co. 
Suff.,  gent., 
younger  son  ; 
Will  P.C.C.  34 
Rivers  14  Jan. 
1644.  M I.  in 
Brad  well 
Church. 


ard  Jenkinson  and 
sister  toHenryJen- 
kinson  of  Oulton, 
co.  Suffolk,  gent., 
who  names  Rich¬ 
ard  Vesey,  his  ne¬ 
phew,  in  Will  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.  17  Jan. 
1660. 


3.  Mary,  ux. 
Thos  Cutler 
of  Stanstead, 
co.  Suff.  gent., 
who  cond. 
test.  P.C.C.  23 
Bowyer  1  Aug. 
1651. 


1 


Elizabeth,  Thomas  Vesey  of  Hintles-= 
mar.  John  ham,  gent,  1664;  entered 
Crouch  of  pedigree  in  Suffolk  Visit11 
Alswick  of  that  year  ;  Will  Arch 
Hall,  Suff.  20  Feb.  1678  ;  proved 

Herts.  20  Nov.  1679.  M.I.  in  the 
Blois  MS.  Church. 


Alary,  da.  and  coll, 
of  Tho’  Bull  of 
Flowton,  co.  Suff. 
gent.,  who  made 
Will  20  Sept.  1649; 
living  1679. 


William  Vese}r,=  Mary  (1), 
clerk  ;  Will  P.C.C.  da.  of 
153  Penn,  28  July  William 
1670:  prob.  15  Nov.  Walley, 
1670  ;  ob.  s.p.  lands  gent 
in  Lound,  Beecles, 

Brad  well,  &c. 


■T71 — r 

Alice. 

Anne. 

Elizabeth. 


Richard  Vesey  of  Brad-=pAnne  Ra¬ 


wed, 1664  ;enteredped- 
igree  in  Suffolk  Visit11 
of  that  year  ;  Lord 
of  the  Manor  of  Hob- 
land  Hall,  1684.  M.I. 
in  Bradwell  Church. 


cliell,  da. 
of...  Jen¬ 
kinson  of 
Norwich. 


3.  William  Ve-=pKatlier- 


sey  of  Elm- 
sett,  gent.  ; 
made  Will 
1713;  Vesey  c. 
Wankford, 
Mitford  2186. 


ine,  dau. 
of  Nico¬ 
las  Ba¬ 
con, Esq 
Blois. 


Charles  Vesey=Frances,da. 

of  Sir  Geo. 


1. 

of  Hintlesham, 
gent.;  Will  P.C.C. 
79  Cann,  26  May 
1681  ;  prob1  1 
July  1685. 


Weuyeve  ; 
had  a  son 
Dudley  Ve¬ 
sey.  Vesey 
c.  Vesey,  &c. 


2.  Thomas. 
Blois  MS. 

Benjamin. 

Daniel, 
had  da.  s.p. 


J  ohn=FSarah,da. 


Vesey. 


of  ...  . 
Hunt  of 
Elmsett. 
Blois  ; 
living 
1712. 


•TTl 

Mary  Vesey  of 
Sproughton,  A0 
1712  ;  Will 
provedArchSuff. 
21  Jan.  1719. 


Eliz.  &  Anne. 


William  Vesey, 
s.  and  li.,  aet. 
3,  1664  ;  devi¬ 
see  1670  of  his 
uncle  William 
Vesey,  clerk. 


I 


Rachel,  mar. 
Edward  Davy, 
gent.  M.I.  in 
Gressenhall 
Church, Norf.; 
ob  7  Sept' 
1725. 


...  Vesey,  sole  da.  &  heir¬ 
ess,  mar.  ...  Wangford  & 
had  sons,  to  whom  her  fat¬ 
her  left  his  estates,  1713. 


Thomas  Vesey  of  Sproughton, =j=Elizabeth,  da.  of  Edmund  Har- 


co.  Suffolk,  gent.  ;  buried  in 
Hintlesham  Church  ;  M.I.  there ; 
ob.  21  April  1736,  tot.  54. 


vey  of  Wickhamskeith ;  M.I. 
in  Hintlesham  Church  ;  ob. 
26  April  1716,  set.  24. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of  John  Ham¬ 
mond,  1712. 

Sarah,  wife  of  John  Rowning, 
1712. 


Mary  Vesey,  s,p. 

J  ohn  Vesey,  s.p. ; 
dead  in  1712. 


ri — r 


Shelly  Wangford,  s. 
and  h.,  ob.  s.p. 

Robert,  3d  son. 

Thomas,  4tli  son. 


2.  Wm.  Wangford,  heir 
to  Hintlesham  Priory; 
took  name  of  Vesey — 
Vesey  c.  I Vankjord, 
1739. 


T 


Rev,  John  Beaumont  of=Mary, 


Sproughton  ;  mar.  circa 
1737 ;  died  4  Oct.  1743, aet. 
29  ;  M.I.  in  Hintlesham 
Church;  ob.s.p.,lstliusbd. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.  1742. 


eld.  d. 
&  coh  ; 
ob.  s.p. 


=John  Vere,  Esq., 
of  Henley,  co. 
Suffolk  &  Thorpe 
by  Norwich. 


Elizabeth  Vesey, da.&= 
coh.  Articles  before 
marriage  dated  2 
April  1743  ;  bur.  at 
Witnesham,  27  Sept. 
1791,  aet.  71. 


•Rev.  Charles  Beau¬ 
mont,  Rector  of 
Witnesham,  co. 
Suff. ;  buried  there; 
M.I.iiiCliance];ob. 
9Nov.  1756, aet.  45. 


Elizabeth  Beaumont,  ultimately  sole  heiress  ;=f=Philip  Bowes  Broke  of  Nacton,  co. 
bapt.  at  Witnesham,  28  June  1748  ;  mar.  there  18  |  Suff.,  Esq.,  b.  10  May  1749  ;  died  22 
Nov.  1771.  Bast  Any.  AS.,  vol.  iv.,  p.  62.  sl/Aug.  1801. 


Amanda  Beaumont,  ob.  s.p.  ;  called  Amy  in 
Bast  Anglian,  vol.  iv.,  p.  62  ;  buried  at  Witnes¬ 
ham,  18  July  1799. 


VESEY  OF  HINTLESHAM. 


63 


PEDIGREE  A. 


<Peseg  of  Holton. 


Robert  Yesey  of  Hadleigh  in  co.  Suffolk,^, 
clothier.  Will  dated  11  Oct.  1559;  proved  j 
7  May  1561  ;  P.C.C.  16  Loftus  ;  lands  in 
lioydon  and  Leyhani. 


William  Vesey  of 
H  intlesham.gent. 
Held  divers  Man¬ 
ors  in  Suffolk  & 
Essex  ;  from  him 
descend  the 
Veseys  of  Hintle¬ 
sham,  1612  and 
1664,  which  see. 


Arthur  Vesey=p  Agnes,  dau.  of 
of  Hadleigh  in  John  Warren 
co.  Suffolk,  of  Newborne, 
1561.  Warren  co.  Suffolk, 'sis- 
Ped.  Hnrl.MS.  ter  of  Roger 
1103  &  1560;  Warren,  Esq., 
named  1559,  who'diedl588, 
in  his  father’s  &  of  Christian 
will.  Alabaster. 


Mary,  ux.  Robert 
Gosnold  of  Ot- 
ley,  co.  Suff., 
Esq.,  who  names 
his  father-in- 
law,  Rob*  Vesey 
in  hisWillP.C.U. 
2  Chancy, 26Jan. 
1553. 


LaurenceV  eseyof=f=A  1  ice 
Hadleigh,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk  ;  ob.  vita  pa- 
tris  ;  Will  P.C.C. 

11  More,  dated  3 
Sep.  1554;  proved 
14  Nov.  same 
year  by  Alice, 
his  relict. 


-L 


Rose,  ux.  John  Smyth  of  Elmsett, 
whose  Will  Cur.Ep.Norw.is  dated 
3  March,  and  proved  29  April 
1578.  She  mar.  2d  ...  Snelling, 
and  made  Will  Arch.  Sudb.  as 
Rose  Snelling  of  Elmsett,  widow, 
18  Nov.  1598,  her  cousin,  Yesey  of 
Hintlesham,  being  a  legatee.  A 
quo  Smyth  of  Elmsett,  1612. 


ArthurVesey,bapt.= 
at  Hadleigh,  1558, 
to  whom  Chris¬ 
topher  Jenney  of 
Theberton,  Esq., 
his  wife’s  brother, 
gave  the  benefice 
of  Ramsden,  co. 
Essex,  before  2 
June  1608. 


:Margaret,  da. 
of  Francis  Jen¬ 
ney  of  Knod- 
dishall,  co. 
SufE.,  Esq., 
already  mard 
1589 ;  devisee 
ofher'brothers 
1608,  1617  & 
1624. 


— i — i 

Robert  Yesey, 
eldest  son ;  de¬ 
visee  of  his 
grandfather 
Vesey  1559  ; 
named  in  Will 
of  Christoph1- 
Jenney, P.C.C. 
36  Wingfield. 
A°  1608. 


William=F  Mary , 
Cely  of 
London, 

1st  hus¬ 
band. 


da.  of  Adam= 
Winthrop  of  Groton, 
Esq.,  sister  of  Adam 
Winthrop  who  men¬ 
tions  her  in  his 
Diary.  She  was  born 
in  1544  and  living  in 
!  1605. 


~1 — I — I — I — l 


:Abraham  Vesey 
of  Ipswich,  2d 

Laurence. 

Dorothy. 

husband;  of  Hol¬ 

Margaret. 

ton  Hall  in  Suf¬ 
folk,  before  Sept. 

Isaac. 

Anne. 

1602  ;  see  Adam 

— 

Winthrop’ s  Diary  ; 
named  in  his 

Rose. 

Alice. 

father’s  Will,  A0 
1554. 

Dorothy. 

Mary. 

Robert  Vesey,  ne¬ 
phew  and  devisee 
of  Edmond  Jenney 
Esq.,  1624,  in  Will 
P.C.C.  57  Byrde  ; 
bapt.  at  Hadleigh, 
1592. 


— I - 

Mary  Vesey, 
neice  &  devisee 
of  William  Jen¬ 
ney,  Esq.,  1617, 
in  Will  Arch. 
Suff. 


- 1 — i 

Mary  Vesey  and 
Frances  Vesey, 
devisees  of  their 
uncle,  Edmond 
Jenney,  Esq., 
1624. 


Adam  Cely  or  Selye, 
named  in  the  Patent 
of  alienation  of  Gro¬ 
ton  Manor,  36  Eliz.  ; 
and  in  the  diary  of 
his  uncle. Adam  Win¬ 
throp,  1596. 


- 1 - — - 

Sarah  Cely, 
mar.  at  High- 
am,  Suffolk, 

21  Aug.  1601, 
to  Robert 
Humfrey. 


- ! - 

Abraham  Ve¬ 
sey,  named 
1609  in  the 
Diary  of  his 
uncle,  Adam 
Winthrop. 


- 1 

Amy  Vesey, 
married  17  Feb. 
1607.  See  Life 
and  Letters  of 
John  Winthrop, 
vol.  i.,  p.  428, 


(Mill  of  lattmtce  teeu  of  Ha&lrijlj,  1554. 

Laurence  Veysy,  3  Sept.  1554.  To  Roose  my  daughter  at  her  age  of  twenty  yeares  or  day 

of  marriage  :  Dorothe  my  daughter  :  Margaret  my  daughter  :  Anne  my  daughter  :  Alice  my 

daughter  ;  to  be  paid  them  on  their  days  of  marriage.  To  Isaacke  Veysy  my  sonne,  when  twenty 
one.  To  Abraham  my  sonne  fourtie  poundes  at  the  age  of  xxiu  yeres.  To  the  poore  folks  of 
Hadley  twenty  nobles  to  be  paide  within  one  yere  after  I  be  deade.  To  Mary  my  doughter 
twentie  pounds  at  the  daje  of  marriage,  or  at  the  age  of  twentie  yeres.  To  Alice  my  wief  the 
howse  wherein  I  nowe  dwell  \\rt  all  the  houses  and  londes  that  I  haue  in  Hadley  for  the  term 
of  her  lief  (except  the  house  wherein  Henry  Hunt  now  dwelleth)  whiche  house  I  giue  to  Abraham 
my  sonne  at  the  age  of  xx*1  yeres.  I  will  that  Alice  my  wief  before  she  doth  marrye  put  in 

suerty  to  my  ffather  and  my  brother  Willyam  Veysy  for  the  parformaunce  of  this  my  will  on 

my  childerns  parte.  I  give  to  Alice  my  wief  two  hundreth  poundes.  Witnesses,  Michael  Veysy 
Roger  Balle  and  Thomas  Jarvishe  Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  11  More. 


64 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


PEDIGREE  B. 


Wmy  of  WLix  SJbbeg,  Cssese- 


(According  to  the  Will  of 
Robert  Vesey,  1559,  Wm. 
Vesey  had  children  by  two 
wives.  A 


= William  Vesey  of  Hiutlesham,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,=f=Joane,  da.  of  Robert  Cutler  of  Ipswich  and 


who  made  Will  P.C.C.  44  Daughtre,  3  June  1575, 
devising  his  Manors  of  Wix  Abbey,  co.  Essex, 
Hiutlesham,  co.  Suffolk,  &c.  ;  Inq.  p.m.  19  Eliz. 


relict  of  John  Walton  of  Hadleigh,  2d  wife, 
She  made  Will  as  Joane  Vesey  of  Hintlesham, 
w°,  P.C.C.  32  Drury,  5  Oct.  1586. 


1.  Robert  Vesey  of= 
Wix  Abbey ,co.  Essex, 
gent.,  son  and  heir  ; 
ob.  vita  patris  ;  bur. 
at  Markes  Hall,  8 
Mar.  1575. 


=Joane,  da.  of  William  Cardinal 
of  Bromley  in  Essex  ;  sister  and 
devisee  of  Stephen  Cardinal, B.D. 
in  his  Will  P.C.C.  54  Pickering, 
28  Dec.  1575. 


John  Vesey  of  Lindsev,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.  ;=pAlice,  named ;  in  her  husband’s 


Will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  proved  30  April  1594  ; 
land  to  William  and  Elizabeth  his  children; 
remainder  to  brother  Vesey  of  Hintlesham. 


Will,  dau.  of 
Eye  in  co.  Suff. 


Cutler  of 
Harl.  MS.  1560. 


William  Vesey,  s.  and  h.,  under  age,  1594. 


Elizabeth. 


1.  William  Vesey  of  Beding-- 
ham  in  Norfolk,  1634.  Harl. 
MS.  1542.  Heir  to  his  grand¬ 
father,  19  Elizth  and  then  set. 
12  years.  Lord  of  the  Manor  of 
Wix  Abbey.  Inq.  p.m.  15  Car. 


-Mary,  da.  of  Sir  Robert  Bedingfield  of  Rose,  ux.  Fran-  A  daughter 

Ditchingham  in  Norfolk,  who  made  Will  cis  Bolton  of  ux.  Symes 

P.C.C.  74  Wallop,  20  Oct.  1600  ;  Ad-  Wilton,  in  Norf.  of  Colches- 

ministrator  of  the  goods  of  her  brother,  Harl.  Ms.  1560  ;  ter.  Harl. 

Philip  Bedingfield,  Dec.  1600  ;  bur.  at  bap.  at  Wix,  MS.  1560. 

Wix,  1642.  1573. 


T1 


2.  Robert  Vesey.  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


3.  John  Vesey. 
MS.  1560. 


Harl. 


1.  Robert1 
Vesey  of 
Hadleigh 
iuco.Suf- 
folk  ;aged 
42, 1634; 
sold  Wix 
Abbey. 


=Anne,  Grizell,  dau.  of= 
dau.of  Richard  Bury  of 
Philip  Worlington  by 
Forthe  Beccles.  Harl. 
Esq.of  MS.  1542;  m.  circa 
Had-  1620  ;  bur.  at  Wix, 
leigli.  April  1638. 


-2.  William  Vesey  of: 
Wix,  co.  Essex,  gent. ; 
Will  P.C.C.59  Alehin, 
5  Sept.  1650;  prob.  1 
May  1654  ;  Manor  of 
Parkliall  al’s  Wix 
Park.  i - 


Anne,  co- 
executrix 
to  her  hus¬ 
band  1654  ; 
named  1650 
in  his  Will. 


Mary  mar.(l)Lion- 
el  Chauncey  ;  (2) 
LukeWast  of  Wix. 


Anne,  bapt.  at  Wix,  13  Nov.  1640. 


Joane,  ux.  Jno. 
Cooke;  mar.  at 
Wix,  1631. 


n  i  r 

3.  Philip. 

4.  Henry. 

5.  Charles 


6.  Thomas=pMartha,da.of  Oliver 


Vesey  of 
Wix,  co.  Es¬ 
sex,  gent.  ; 
Will  Arch. 
Coleh.  20 
Sept.  1661  ; 
prob.27Nov 


Hovell  of  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  Bury ;  neice 
&  devisee  of  Rich. 
Hovell  21  Oct.16  .Tac. 
P.C.C.  103  Meade  & 
then  child  ;  bur.  at 
Wix,  5  Nov.  1644. 


William  Ves- 
sey,  bapt.  at 
Wix,  12  March 
1642  ;  bur. 
there  1657. 


William  Vesey,' 
son  and  h.,  15 
years  old  1634  ; 
of  Park  Hall  in 
Wix,  1649-1661. 


Mary.  Richard,  bapt.  1620. 

Elizabeth, bapt.  1621. 
Grizell,  bapt.  1622. 


Thomas,  Robert  Vesey,  son  and  h.,  Thomas 
bapt.  bapt.  at  Wix  11  April  Vesey, 
1632.  1639  ;  Entered  pedigree  bapt.  at 

in  Essex  Visitation  1664  ;  Wix,  7 
manor  of  Pond  Hall.  Feb.  1642. 


Mary  eldest  dau.  bapt.  at 
Wix  20  April  1630 ;  mar.  at 
Mistley,  22  Oct.  1660,Theo- 
philus  Pierce,  minister  of 
Frinton,  co.  Essex. 


1.  William  Vesey  of  What-= 
fieldHall,  co.  Suffolk,  gent. ; 
bapt.  at  Wix  1649  ; 
Will  21  June  1699  ;  died 
21  July  1699,  aet.  50  ; 
M.I.inWhatfield  Chancel. 


-Eliz.Clarke,=Matthew  Is-: 
cousin  &  h.  aack,  gent,  of 
of  Alleyn  Hitcham,  Suf- 
Reade.  See  folk  ;  2d  hus. 
Rkade  OP  band  ;  ob. 
Wickford.  1702. 


Maria, 
first  wife; 
bur.  at 
Hitcham, 
1619. 


2.  Richard  Vesey 
of  Colchester ; 
bap.at  Wixl650; 
bur.atWhatfield 
23  July  1684  ; 
Vesey  c.  Berriffe. 


- 1  i 

Thomas  bap. 
1656  ;  bur.  at 
Wix,  1661. 

J ohn, bap.at  Wix 
1658;  bur.  1660. 


Edward  Jackson  of  Holkam,  ob.=j=Theophila  Isaack,  died=Robert  Vesey  of  Wix,  2d  husband  ;  mar. 
1695  ;  A  quo  Cullum  of  Hardwick.  |  30  Nov.  1738.  at  Whatfield,  20  Nov.  1700.  Cullum  MS. 

A 


Robert  Vesey  of 
Wix  Park,  co.  Es¬ 
sex,  gent.,  born 
1654  ;  Will  Arch. 
Colch.l  Feb.  1719; 
prob.  11  Feb.  ;  ob. 
s.p. ;  Wix  Park  Hall 
to  Wm.  Vesey  son 
of  Wm.  Vesey  his 
kinsman. 


Charles=f-Mary, 
Vesey 
of  Wix, 
bapt. 
there 
1661. 

Vesey  c. 

Kings¬ 
bury. 


da.  & 
heirof 
Rich¬ 
ard 
Con- 
sine, 
1692. 


William  Vesey  of  Park  Hall  in  Wix,=j=Elizabeth 
gent.,  kinsman  and  devisee  of  Robert 
Vesey  1719  ;  Will  Arch.  Coleh.  24 
June  1723  ;  prob.  22  Oct.  1723. 


.  living 
1741,  defendant  in  Vesey 
c.  Vesey,  Mitford  2087. 


Richard  Vesey, 
bapt.  at  Wix, 
1693  ;  buried 
there  1702. 


Mary,  bapt.  at 
Wix  1687;  bur. 
there  1691. 


Mary,  bapt.  and 
bur.  on  Easter 
Day,  1695. 


Anne,  bapt. 
at  Wix,  1698. 


William  Vesey  of  Park  Hall  in  Wix,  gent.  1741, 
heir  ;  Vesey  c.  Vesey,  Mitford  2087. 


and=j=Susan 


Richard  Vesey,  youngest  son.  1723,  bapt  at 
Wix,  1714. 


William  Vesey,  bapt.  at 
Wix,  1739. 


Susan,  bapt  1743. 


Mary.  bapt.  and  bui\ 
1744 


Amy,  bapt.  and  bur. 
1748. 


Elizabeth,  bapt.  1753  ;  Lur. 
1765. 


The  Editor  is  greatly  indebted  to  the  Rev.  Proctor 
and  other  valuable  information  respecting  the  Veseys. 


Benwell,  M.A.,  Vicar  of  Wix,  for  copious  extracts  from  his  parish  registers, 


VESEY  OF  H1NTLESHAM. 


65 


PEDIGREE  C. 

W  esep  of  Slltifjam. 


Ahms  : — Ermine  on  a  cross  Sable,  five  martlets  Or  ;  all  within  a  bordure  of  the  last. 


Thomas  Vesey  of  Aldham  co.  Suffolk  ;  said  in= 
Harl.  MS,  1560  and  other  MSS.  to  be  2d  son  of 
Robert  Vesey  of  Hadleigh  ;  but  this  is  doubtful. 


'Elizabeth,  daughter  of  .  .  . 
Gardner  of  .  .  .  in  com,  Suf¬ 
folk. 


Thomas  Vesey  of  Aldham  in  Suffolk,  made= 
Will  Arch.  Sudb.,  as  Thomas  Vesey  of 
Burgh,  co.  Suff.,  gent.,  26  Oct.  1614  ;  pro¬ 
bate  18  March  1616;  Inq.  p.m.  16  Jas; 
lands  in  Hintlesliam,  &c. 


'Elizabeth, dau.  of  John  Church 
of  Maldon  in  Essex.  Arg.  on 
a  fesse  engrailed,  betw.  3  grey- 
houuds’  heads  erased  Sa.,  3 
trefoils  slipped  Sa. 


Alice  ux.  Henry  Gunvile  of  Gorleston,  co.  Suff., 
gent.,  who  made  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  6  April  21 
Eliz.  ;  prob1  4  Nov.  1580,  making  Alice  his  wife, 
executrix,  Alice  Ward  his  sister  inheriting  his 
lands  ;  ob.  sine  prole. 


1.  Thomas  Vesey  of= 
Aldham,  gent.,  s.  and 
h.,  aged  40  in  1617  ; 
lands  in  Aldham, 
Elmsett  and  Hiutle- 
sham. 


=Ann,  da.  of  John  Vere  of 
Henley  in  com.  Suffolk, 
sister  of  John  Vere  of 
Henley,  gent.,  who  made 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  11 
June  1615. 


Hollesley,  co.  Suff., 
gent.,  1st  husband 
Will  P.C.C.  1587 
Inq.  p.m.  34  Eliz. 


Thomas  Vesey  of  Aldham,  gent.,  s.  and  h.,=f, 
set.  1  year,  A°  1612  ;  Will  Arch.  Sudb.  14 
Oct.  1680  ;  prob4  11  July  1681  ;  names 
John  Vesey  his  grandchild. 


William  Herberd  of=j=Mary  Vesey=f=Thomas  Atherold  of  2.  Ed  ward  Ve- 
Hollesley,  co.  Suff.,  1  2d  wife  of  Burgh,  co.  Suffolk,  sey,  2d  son, 
Kent.,  1st  husband  :  Wm.  Her-  gent.  ;  Inq.  p.m.  12  A°1612.  Cam- 

Jus.  ;  made  Will  17  den  says  “Ed- 
June  12  Jas.  ob.  19  mond.” 

June.  2nd  husband. 


Anne,  cot.  10  A0  1612.  Mary,  aged  9  A0  1612. 


Elizabeth, 

1612. 


aged  7  A0 


John  Vesey,  s.  and  Anne,  wife  of  Joseph  Rand  of  Had- 
h.,  1680.  leigh,  co.  Suffolk,  1680  ;  had  issue. 


Elizabeth  Vesey,  a  spin¬ 
ster,  A°  1680. 


William  Vesey,  sole  executor 
to  his  father,  1680. 


Will  of  ®I)0ma*s  Umg  ol  JU&Ijam,  1614. 

Thomas  Vesey  of  Burghe  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke,  gentleman,  26  October  1614.  My  house 
at  Aldham  where  I  late  dwelt.  Thomas  Yesey  my  sonne.  Edward  Yesey  my  sonne.  Elizabeth  Yesey 
my  wife  to  be  sole  executrix.  Probatum  18  Martij  1616  Juramento  Elizabeths  Vesey  reiicte  et 
executrie.  Arch.  Sudb.  “Legate,”  fo.  171. 


Will  of  ®bontas  ffrng  nf  JUbljam,  1680. 

Thomas  Vesey  of  Aldham  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  Gentleman,  14  Oct.  16S0.  To  John  Vesey 
my  eldest  son.  My  daughter  Anne,  wife  of  Joseph  Rand  of  Hadleigh  in  the  county  of  Suffolk  wool- 
comber.  My  daughter  Elizabeth  Yesey,  spinster.  To  John  Vesey  my  grandchild.  My  three  grand¬ 
children,  Joseph  Rand,  Anne  Rand,  and  Martha  Rand  :  also  my  grandchild  Thomas  Rand.  My  son 
William  Vesey  to  be  sole  executor.  My  lands  much  mortgaged.  Probat.  11  July  1681  Juramento 
Gulielmi  Vesey  filij.  Arch.  Sudb.  “  Underwocd,  ’  fo.  103. 

K 


afttsbj)  of  Cljorpr  fflotintt. 


Armorial  Scarings. 

The  Anns  of  Risby  of  Thorpe  Morieux,  as  recorded  in  Raven’s  note  hook  (Harl.  MS.  1820), 
during  his  Suffolk  Vistation  of  1G11-12,  were; — “Sable,  on  a  cross  voided  five  billets  between 
four  griffins  segreant,  Or  :  and  the  Crest,  an  arm  couped  at  the  shoulder,  embowed,  in  mail  proper : 
in  the  hand,  proper,  four  ears  of  wheat,  Or,  stalked  Vert.  Harl.  MS.  1560,  fo.  159,  has  ears  and 
stalks  alike  Vert.  In  the  Emblazoned  Pedigree  of  Winthrop,  on  page  9,  which  is  confessedly  faded 
and  discoloured,  the  billets  arc  not  apparent.  Other  modifications  of  this  coat  arc  given  in  the 
Heraldic  Dictionaries. 

But  in  Bysshe’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  1664,  the  Arms  of  Risby  are  altogether  different, 
viz.  ; — Gules,  on  a  bend  Argent,  three  cross  croslets  Sable.  They  are  so  tricked  in  Harl.  MS. 
1085,  which  gives  the  Arms  of  the  Suffolk  and  Essex  families  in  the  Visitations  of  that  year,  and 
in  the  corresponding  MS.  at  the  College  of  Arms.  This  shield,  with  occasional  modifications,  is 
carved  on  the  Risby  tombstones  in  the  churches  of  Thorpe  Morieux  and  Felsham,  together  with  a 
Crest,  On  a  chapeau,  a  goat  passant.  Add.  MS.  19,088  fo.  287,  and  Add.  MS.  19,019  fo.  84. 


JUsbn  f)cfrigrcc :  Harl.  1174. 


The  Risby  pedigree,  Harl.  MS.  1174,  fo.  88b,  inexact  as  it  is,  has  been  followed  more  or  less  closely  by  other  ancient  MSS.  and 
possesses  much  genealogical  value.  It  is  in  the  handwriting  of  Henry  Lilly,  Rouge  Croix,  ante  1(33S.  With  this  agrees 
the  most  part  of  the  Risby  pedigree,  Harl.  MS.  1560. 


Roger  Groome  of  Lauenham ,=p 

I - — T - '  I - 

Alice  mar :  Bridget  1  wife=f=WiUm  Risby  of=\ 


to  Sexton. 

Alice  mar:  to- 
Thomas  Monn- 
yngsof  Neilgc- 
ine  in  Stiff. 


to 


Lauen  Clothier 
36  II.  S.  15U. 


-dan.  of  Kempe  of  Box  ford. 
...d.  of  King  of  Boxford. 
MS.  1560. 


WMnZ 


t~ 

Eliz: 


Thom.  <b 

Nicholas 

ingc  traueled  to  Jer¬ 

sonne  of  La- 

heireufJohn 

by  of  Thorpe 

Robt.  ob.  all 

Springe  of 

usalem  sonne  after 

venham. 

llarbotteU 

Morieux 

unmarytd. 

Lauenham. 

his  Returne  Ob. 

Harl.  MS. 

of  CroJ'elde. 

sonne  A  he. 

unmapped. 

1560. 

Thomas  Risby  of  Lauen’  Clothier .=p 

2  wife.  Ann d.of  Thom. =ltobert  Groome  of  Laven- 
Harl.  Risby  of  La  veil-  ham  in  com.  Suff.  Harl. 
ham.  MS.  1560,  fo.  298. 

-1 

-Margarydau.of 
Edw.  Russe  of 
Naylond.  2h 
she  mar.  to  Job  a 
Wincoll. 


to=j=  George 3 sonnehavc-  Thomas  2=pdau.  it  sole  Robert  Rys— 


r~T 


George 
*-P- 


ob. 


Brulgett 

mar.  to 

Edw. 

Iinappe 

ofWash- 

brooke. 


Robert  Mon.  of 
Monkes  Ellye 
sonne  Alie.  mar. 
Eliz:  dau.  of 
Harbart  of 
Hoselye. 


rJ 

Thomas 
Springe  of 
Loosehall, 
sonne  A  h. 


n — 
Robt.  ob. 
yonge. 


s.p. 


Jayne  m.  to 
Edw.  Grimston 
Esqr 


Thorn.3  sonn 
mar:  ye  dau. 
of  p  son  H ye. 

Willm.  Rysby  of  Thorpe  Aloryeux^Brigett  dau.  of  Sr  John  Robt. 
Gent,  sonne  A  lieire.  \  Higham,  Knt. 

, - 1 


Eliz:  l  dau. 
<0  colic,  mar. 
to  Henry 
Winckfeld 
Esqr 


Margarett  mar: 
to  Betts. 

Eliz:  mar.  to  Jo: 
Wenthorp  of 
Grot  ton. 


]Viiliam=f=l.  dau.  of 
Rysby  of  |  Smith  of  Call- 


Thorpe 
Morieux 
sonne  A 
he. 


endish. 
Curtis, 
a  fidler. 


Sly  to 
by  to 


A  rthur 
sonne. 


Elizabeth  ob.  a 
made. 


— i 

Another 


dau. 


And  had  issue  dyuers  children  : — John  Risby  and  others  ;  a  daughter  ux.  Thom.  Spring  of  Loosehall.  Harl.  MS.  1560. 


RISBY  OF  THORPE  MORIEUX. 


67 


Mlill  of  ffiljontas  Hisbg,  1500. 

The  vxiij  day  of  Decem.br,  the  yore  of  of  oure  Lord  god  m'ccccc.  I  Thomas  Rysby  of 
Lavenham  make  this  my  last  will.  hirst  I  commend  my  sonic  to  Almyghti  god,  to  oure  Lady 
saint  niarye  and  to  all  the  companye  in  licvin,  my  body  to  be  buried  w*in  the  chircli  yarde  of 
the  blissid  Apostelis  petir  and  powlc  in  Lavenham  aforesaid,  by  the  sepult1'  of  my  fader  there. 
I  tin  I  beqweth  to  the  high  awter  for  my  tithes  noclysently  doon  vs.  ItiTi  I  beqweth  xxu  to 
repaire  the  way  from  Lavenham  to  Mylford.  Itm  I  beqweth  to  the  hows  of  ffreris  in  Sudbury 
x  marc  to  repaire  tlicr9  chirch  and  liowsis  there.  ItiTi  I  bequeth  to  a  good  honest  fFrere  in  the 
same  hows  of  Sudbury  to  be  my  Pylgrymc  in  going  to  Rome  for  my  sowle  and  all  cristin  sowlis 

x  marc.  Itm  I  beqweth  to  the  hows  of  Gray  ffreris  Bab  well  xs  for  a  trentall  to  be  doon  for  my 

soule.  Itm  I  bequeth  to  the  lions  of  White  ffreres  in  Ippiswich  xs  for  a  trentall.  Itm  to  the 
hows  of  Augustyncs  ffreris  in  Clare  x*  for  a  trentall  to  be  doon  for  my  soule.  Itm  to  Maister  John 

Warcop  x3  to  pray  for  my  soule  hclth.  Itm  I  bequeth  to  poor  men  and  woomen  in  Lavenham 

xu  to  be  disposid  in  v  yer9  for  my  soule  and  all  my  good  frendis  soules.  Itm  to  Agnes  my  wife 
vi“  li.  I  will  that  Agnes  my  wife  have  hir  dwelling  with  John  my  sonne  in  my  lied  place  in 
the  high  strete  to  she  be  maried,  and  they  canne  so  longe  agree.  And  if  so  be  she  cannc  not 
agree  with  him,  no  w*  noon  of  hir  children,  then  I  wil  that  John  and  William  prouide  for  hir 
anne  bowse  to  she  be  maried.  Itm  to  John  my  sonne  myne  lied  place  in  the  high  strete.  Itm 
to  my  said  sonne  John  a  place  in  Preston  called  Lcwkuesse.  Itm  to  John  my  said  sonne  my  place 
called  IlaynaAvntf  lying9  in  Thorpe  and  Brethynhm  with  all  the  lands  that  longcth  thereto.  Itih  I 
bequeth  to  AVillia9  my  sonne  viyx  li  to  purchs  him  a  place  therw*.  To  AVilliam  my  said  sonne. 
my  place  called  Man's  and  Wcylondp  lying  in  Alton  and  Cokfeld,  lie  to  be  setto  cler9  ther9in. 
Itih  to  William  my  said  sonne  my  place  of  Pustgato  in  Hallcstreet  in  Lavenhm  with  the  loms  and 
all  that  longeth  ther9to.  Itm  I  bequeath  my  part  in  the  dyehows  to  John  and  AVilliam  my  sonnes 
Itih  to  echo  oon  of  my  daughts  xl1'  whenne  they  come  to  the  age  of  xviij  yers.  Itm  I  bequeth 
to  AA7illiam  my  brother  x1*,  to  Rob*  my  brother  x1',  to  Agues  my  suster  x  marc.  To  John  Rysby 
the  sonne  of  John  Rysby  deceasid  xxh.  To  Thomas  the  sonne  of  John  Rysby  deceased  xx1'.  Itih 
I  will  yf  it  happe9  John  my  son  to  decease  or  he  come  home  to  take  possession  in  his  goodes 
thenne  I  wil  that  all  his  part  ret9ne  to  William  my  sonne  that  is  to  him  by  me  afore  bequethed. 
The  Residue  to  John  and  AVilliam  my  sonnes  whome  I  make  executors  they  to  dispose  for  my 
soule.  Itih  to  my  lord  of  Oxenford  xl1'  whome  I  beseche  to  be  myn  supvisor  and  to  be  good  and 
gracious  lord  to  my  wife  and  sonnes.  Probatum  tcrcio  die  mensis  ffebruarij  1501.  Juramento  AVillm 
Cooke  et  Robti  Rysby  ac  AVillmi  Rysby  executoris.  P.C.C.  Blamyr,  fo.  123b. 


Mill  of  Kisfon,  1528. 

Agnes  Rysby  of  Lavanham,  wedowe,  13  Aug.  1528.  To  be  buryed  in  the  chirchyarde  by 
my  husband.  To  Thomas  Groome,  sonne  of  Robert  Groome  and  to  Agnes  Grome,  my  godchildren. 
To  Alys  Rysby  dowter  of  AA’illiam  Rysby  my  sonne.  To  Alleyn  Sexten.  To  Thomas  Cawston,  Agnes 
&  Jone  Cawston,  my  godchildren.  To  Morryn  Barker,  Agnes  Clogge,  Roger  Tryppe  my  godchilden. 
To  Alys  Sexten,  dowter  of  Robert  Sexten.  To  Agnes  Lynchc  of  Ratlysden  my  goddowter.  AVyllyam 
Rysby  my  sonne :  Thomas  Rysby  and  AA’illiam  Rysby  his  sonnes.  Jone  Cawston  my  dowter.  My 
three  dowters,  Jone,  Agnes  <fc  Jone.  My  sonne  executor.  Probat  6  Octobris  1528. 

Arch.  Sudb.  “Johnson,”  fo.  219. 

o 

K“ 


68 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will,  toitlj  ffioiuril,  of  Alice  spring,  1558. 

The  xiijth  day  of  April  1538  Alice  Sprynge  late  the  wife  of  Thomas  Sprynge  Esq 
of  Lavenham,  widowe.  To  be  buried  by  my  late  husband.  I  geve  my  tenemente  called  Branches  in 
Lavenham  vnto  my  daughter  Brygett  Sprynge,  and  all  such  money  as  is  due  vnto  me  by  my 
husbonds  last  wille.  Vnto  my  sonne  in  law  Richard  ffulmerston,  gent,  and  to  my  daughter  Alice 
his  wife  a  hundreth  poundcs  &c.  The  residue  of  all  my  goodes  I  geve  vnto  my  welbeloued  sonne  in 
lawe  William  Rysby  and  Margaret  his  wife  my  daughter,  the  which  William  and  Margaret  and 
Richard  ffullmerston,  gent,  my  sonne  in  law,  I  ordeyn  my  executours.  I  desire  my  good  Lord  of 
Oxinford  to  ayde  and  defend  my  said  executours.  And  I  geve  vnto  his  good  Lordshipp  twenty 
pounds  sterling. 

I  Alice  Sprynge,  of  Lavenham,  widowe,  the  last  day  of  August,  1538,  doo  ordeyn  this  p’nt 
Codycill,  which  I  will  to  be  annexed  vnto  my  last  will.  Item,  where  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn,  Knyght, 
doth  owe  vnto  my  sonne  William  Ernele,  the  sume  of  fyve  hundreth  m’ks,  for  the  legacye  of  my 
late  husband  Thomas  Sprynge,  made  vnto  Bridgett  Sprynge,  the  said  Thomas  is  daughter  and  myn ; 
the  which  Bridgett  the  forsaid  William  Ernele  hath  espoused  :  for  defaulte  of  payment,  I  will  myn 
executours  shall  recompense  said  sonne  William  Ernele  all  costs  and  charges  concernyng  the  recovereye 
of  the  said  fyve  hundreth  m’rks.  I  ordeyn  my  welbeloued  sonne  in  lawe  Will’m  Rysby,  and 
Margarett  his  wife  my  daughter  only  to  be  myn  executours.  And  I  doo  discharge  vtterly  Richard 
ffulmerston  my  sonne  in  law  from  the  execuc’on  of  my  said  testament  and  will  :  But  I  will  said 
Richard  ffulmerston  and  Will’m  Ernele  to  be  sup’visours.  Proved  5  Sept.,  1628. 

This  will,  which  we  give  in  a  condensed  form,  is  printed  in  Hervey’s  “Visitation  of  Suffolke.” 
edited  by  Dr.  Joseph  Jackson  Howard,  vol.  I.,  pp.  171-176. 


W  of  William  fUsbtJ,  1551. 

Willyam  Rysby  of  Lavenham  in  the  countie  of  Suff.  the  xiiijth  daye  of  Nouember  1551  and 
in  the  fyfte  yere  of  our  soueraigne  Lorde  Edwarde  the  Sixte.  ffirst  I  moost  mekely  comendc  my 
soule  to  Almightie  god  and  to  his  sonne  Jhu9  Christ,  by  the  meryts  of  whose  passion  I  trust  to 
haue  clere  remission  of  my  synnes,  and  my  bodye  to  be  buried  in  the  parishe  church  of  Lavenham. 
Item  1  will  that  Magaret  my  wief  shall  haue  all  that  my  manor  of  Thorpe  Moryeux  in  the  saide 
countie  during  her  lyf,  the  remaynder  after  her  decease  to  Robert  Rysby  my  sonne  and  to  theyres 
of  his  bodye  laufully  begotten.  And  yf  the  saide  Robert  dye  withoute  Issue,  the  seyd  manor  shall 
remayne  to  Thomas  Rysby  my  sonne;  for  defaulte  of  yssue  of  the  bodye  of  the  said  Thomas,  remaynder 
thereof  to  George  Rysby  my  sonne.  I  will  that  the  said  Robert  Risby  my  sonne  and  Margery  his 
wief,  shall  have  my  Manor  of  ffelshm  in  the  said  countie  of  Sufi’.  Item  I  will  that  the  said  Robert 


RISBY  OF  THORPE  MOBIEUX. 


C9 


Rysby  my  sonne  shall  haue  all  my  londs  and  tents  in  Brctenham,  Thorpp  aforesaid,  and  Heclmi9  .  . 
The  said  Robert  shall  hane  all  that  my  tent  in  Lavenham  knowen9  by  the  name  of  my  halle 

howus  which  I  nowe  dwellin  and  my  medowe  adioyning  which  I  bought  of  my  brother  in  lawe  Robert 
Sexten,  the  moite  of  my  dye  house  in  Lavenham  and  the  moyte  of  the  dye  hows  croft  in  the  highe 
strete.  And  thother  moite  of  saide  dye  house  and  croft  I  will  the  saide  Thomas  my  sonne  shall 
haue  yt.  Tents  in  Lavenham  to  Thomas  my  sonne  ;  and  londs  tents  and  hereditaments  in 
Shymplyng,  Alpheton,  Cockefeld  and  Lawsett  \sic\  in  the  saide  countie  of  Sufi',  and  lands  ifcc. 

in  Byldeston,  Naunton,  Bryset  Magna,  Briset  pva  and  Ofton  &c.  Item  I  will  that  George 
Risby  my  sonne  shall  haue  my  Manor  in  Boxforthe  called  Coddenlim  hall  and  all  my  londs. 
in  Boxforthe  Edwardeston  and  Groton  [and]  my  lands  and  tenements  in  Monkes  Ely.  Item 

Manors  &c.  willed  to  my  sonnes  Rob4  Thomas  and  George  shall  remayne  in  the  hand,  ordre 
and  rule  of  myn  executors  till  euery  of  them  shall  accomplishe  their  severall  ages  of  xxi  yeres. 
Item  vnto  the  said  Margaret  my  wief  my  goblet  of  siluer  with  the  couer  all  gilt.  Item  to  the 
children  of  Alice  my  doughter  twenty  poundes  when  they  shall  accomplishe  their  seuerall  ages 
of  xviij  yeres.  Item  to  the  children  of  Elizabeth  my  doughter  wief  of  Nicholas  Spryng  xxiij11. 
Residue  of  my  goodes  to  myn  executours  whome  I  ordeyne  the  said  Margaret  my  wyf,  Robert 
Rysby  and  Thomas  Rysby  my  sonnes,  and  Nicholas  Spryng  supervisour.  I  haue  subscribed 

my  name  the  xv  daye  of  Nouembr  in  the  said  fyfte  yere  of  Edwarde  the  Sixt.  ITobatum 

xxvij™0  Septembris  1552  Juramento  procur  Margarete  Relicte  et  Exp,  &c. 

P.C.C.  24  Powell. 

The  Manor  of  Coddenham  Hall  in  Boxford  was  purchased  by  William  Risby  of  William  Forthe 
and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  in  1547.  It  was  afterwards  sold  by  George  Risby,  his  son,  to  Edward  Clere, 
in  1563.  Fines,  Easter,  1  E.  6  &  Easter,  5  Elizabeth. 


Will  of  Jltargarrt  HisIjd,  1552. 

Margaret  Rysby  of  Laueham  co.  Suffolk  widow,  8  Nov.  1552.  To  be  buried  in  the  church 
nere  my  husband.  To  my  sister  Dame  Briget  Husey  and  to  her  children,  men  and  women.  To 

my  sister  Alice  Fulmerston.  To  Frances  Fulmerston  her  daughter  when  she  marries.  To  Thomas 

Heyward  son  of  my  said  sister  Alice.  To  George  Risby  my  sonne  a  tenement  <ic.  in  Lavenham 
&  land  in  Boxford.  Lands  to  Thomas  Risby  my  son  and  Robert  Risby  my  son.  To  my  son 
Nicholas  Spring  &  Elizabeth  my  dau.  his  wife.  To  Margery,  my  said  son  Robert’s  wife.  To  my 
dan.  in  law  Alice  Monnyng.  Bequest  of  William  Risby  my  late  husband.  To  Thomas  Rysby  my 
son  the  overplus  of  goods  bequeathed  me  by  my  husbands  will  ;  he  to  pay  Elizabeth  the  wifi’  of 
Robert  Osmonde  of  Bilson  that  she  release  hir  porcon  of  hir  legacye  bequeathed  her  by  her  grandfather 
unto  Thomas  Mounyngs  children  by  Alice  his  last  wiffe.  To  my  sister  in  law  wiff  of  William 
Causton  dwelling  at  the  Crosse  in  Lavenham.  My  cousen  Mr  John  Allington.  To  myn  Aunte 
Hall.  To  Henry  Hall  and  William  Hall.  Residue  to  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Spring,  whom  I 
ordeyn  sole  executrix.  To  my  cousen  Margaret  Allington  wife  of  said  John.  Probate  to  M  ill  and 

Codicil,  17  Feb.  1552,  ElizthaB  Spring.  P.C.C.  4  Tashe. 


70 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Robert  itisbn,  1557. 

The  thirde  dayc  of  Mayc  in  the  yerc  of  ov  Lorde  god  a  thousand  fyve  hundreth  ffiftie  and 

scavcn,  I  llobert  Rysbye  of  Thorpmorieux  in  tho  comitio  of  Suff.,  gcntilman,  do  make  my  last 

will,  ffirst  I  bequeath  my  soule  to  Almightie  god,  and  to  all  Saynctcs,  and  my  bodye  to  be 
buryed  in  the  chauncell  of  Thorpe  aforesaide,  before  the  highc  Aulter.  Also  I  give  to  Margerie 
my  wief  my  Mannor  of  Thorphawle  [&c.]  for  her  lyf  naturall.  And  after  hir  dicease  I  will  that 

William  my  sonne  shalhaue  said  Mannor  and  his  lieircs  forcuer.  Item  to  Margerie  my  wief  my 

two  Manners  in  ffclshm  A  Dringston  vntill  that  my  sonne  Willyam  come  to  the  full  age  of  xxi 
yores.  Item  to  Margerie  my  wief  my  lands  and  tents  in  Brethenhm,  Stonfeld  in  Hechm  and 

Henauts  in  Thorpe,  vntill  that  Thomas  my  sonne  come  to  the  full  age  of  xxi  yeres.  Item  to 

Margerie  my  wief  my  licdd  house  in  Laueuham  untill  Thomas  come  to  the  age  of  xxi  yeres.  And 
if  both  my  sonnes  die  withoute  lieircs  of  their  bodies,  then  I  will  that  my  doughters  liaue  the 
hole  londes  as  copertioners  to  gethers,  and  their  heires  foreucr.  To  Elizabeth  my  doughtcr  one 
hundreth  poundes,  Margaret  my  doughtcr  one  hundreth  pounde,  Anne  my  doughtcr  one  hundreth 
pounde,  to  be  paide  at  the  dayes  of  [their]  marriage.  Item  to  Thomas  Rysbye  my  brother  one 
ringe  of  golde  wth  a  deathes  licdd  in  yt.  To  George  Rysbye  my  brother  one  ringe  of  golde.  Item 
to  my  systcr  Spryngc,  my  syster  Spyre,  my  mother  in  lawe,  my  brother  John  Rosse  ;  to  Mathewe 

Deyc  ;  to  my  keper  Agnes  Dryecotte  ;  to  Thomas  WenyfF.  Margery  my  wieff  shall  liaue  the 

custodie  and  bringing  vpp  of  my  two  sonnes  vntill  they  come  to  the  age  of  xxi  yeres  ;  and  that 
they  bee  brought  vpp  to  Scoullc  in  the  arte  of  lernynge  all  the  said  tyme.  The  residue  of  my 
goodes  to  my  wief  wliome  1  make  sole  executrix.  And  1  make  Edwarde  Rosso  gent,  my  father 
in  lawe  my*  supervisor  Rrobatum  xxviij"  die  mensis  Junij  anno  d hi  1557  Juramento  Edwardi  Rosse 
geuerosi  procurator  Margerie  llclicte  executricf.  P.C.C.  21  Wrastley. 


®tll  of  Mil  fflmcoll,  1576. 

John  Wyncoll  of  Little  Waldingfcld  co.  Suffolk,  gent.  14  Oct.  1576.  To  bo  buried  in  the 
church.  To  Isacke  Wyncoll  my  sonne  A  heire.  To  Thomasyn  my  daughter  when  twenty  yeares 

of  age,  Jane  my  daughter  when  twenty,  Anne  my  daughter,  Brygett  my  daughter,  Amye  my 

daughter.  To  my  daughter  in  law,  Elizabeth  Wyntroppe,  the  taffita  gowne  which  was  some  tyme 
her  mothers,  in  consideration  of  her  good  will  to  Amy  my  daughter  nowe  in  her  tuition  and  custodie. 
To  my  sister  Coo,  my  sister  Rice.  To  Margaret  Wyncoll  wife  of  my  cosin  John  Wincoll.  To 
Robert  Wyncoll  th’elder  ;  William  Risbye,  Gent,  my  sonne  in  lawe ;  Margaret  Betts  my  daughter 

in  law.  My  lands  in  Much  and  Littell  Cornard  to  be  sold.  My  Manors  of  Netherhall  in  little 

Waldingfcld  and  in  Alphampton  co  Essex.  -My  Manors  of  Twinsted  and  Harberds  and  my  lands 
in  Essex.  To  my  sonne  John  Wyncoll.  Probate  25  Feb.  1576. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Lib.  Wroo.,  fo.  222. 


The  testator’s  step-daughter,  Elizabeth  Ilisby,  had  married,  in  1566,  John  Winthrop  of  Groton 
Manor,  afterwards  of  Aghadowne,  co.  Cork.  She  subsequently  became  the  wife  of  Reynold  Braunch. 


RISBY  OF  THORPE  MOHIEUX. 


71 


Mill  of  William  JUsbte,  1625. 

Willliara  Risbie  of  Thorpe  Morieuxe  in  the  countie  of  Suffolk  Esq1'  20  May  1625.  To  be 
buried  in  Felsham  chancel  near  Sir  Robert  Chambcrlyn’s  tombe  or  monument.  To  Daniel  Risbie,  one 
of  my  younger  sonnes,  lands  in  Thorpe  Morieux,  with  remainder,  failing  issue,  to  John  my  eldest 
son,  Robert  my  son,  William  my  son,  or  to  the  right  heirs  of  me.  To  John  Risbie  my  son  my 
Manors  &c.  in  Thorpe  Morieux,  Hitcham,  Erettenham,  Felsham,  Arc.  Arc.  in  the  countie  of  Suffolk, 
with  remainder,  failing  issue,  to  Robert  my  son,  Daniel  my  son,  William  my  son  or  to  my  right 
heirs.  To  William  Risbie  my  son  an  annuity  of  twenty  pounds  a  year.  To  my  daughters  Susan 
and  Jane  when  twenty  one.  To  my  sister  Bridget  Redferne.  My  aunt  Elizabeth  Braunch  My 
son  John  Risbie  to  be  sole  executor.  Probate  7  July  1625  Juramento  Joins  Risbie.  A  Second 
probate  21  Feb.  1628.  P.C.C.  73  Clarke. 


Will  of  Jlobn  ilisbo,  1687. 

I  John  Risby  of  Thorpe  Morieux  in  the  county  of  Suff.  Esq1'  make  this  my  last  will  this 
27  April  1687.  I  have  lately  lcavicd  a  ffine  of  my  estate  and  declare  the  same  to  be  to  the 
onely  use  of  mo  &  my  lieires  for  ever.  I  have  a  great  confidence  in  Elizabeth  my  dcarc  wife 
and  hopeing  that  she,  by  her  care  and  prudence,  will  soe  order  my  estate  as  provision  may  be 
made  for  raising  of  portions  for  my  children,  and  for  theirc  educacon  and  maintenance,  I  declare  my 
mind  to  be  that  the  said  Elizabeth  shall  receive  the  rents  of  all  my  manors  for  the  six  yeares 
next  comcing  after  my  decease,  and  make  sale  of  soe  much  of  my  goods  as  she  shall  please  for 
payment  of  portions  to  be  given  to  my  six  daughters,  Elizabeth  Risby,  Margaret  Risby,  Jane 
Risby,  Mary  Risby,  Anne  Risby  and  Catherine  Risby.  If  not  sufficient,  1  will  the  lands  in  Elmsett 
of  William  Smith  Esqr  deceased  shall  be  sold  and  the  money  be  employed  by  my  said  wife.  I 
devise  unto  Heigham  Risby,  my  second  son,  one  yearely  rent  of  forty  pounds  during  life  out  of 
mesuage  in  Thcrpc  Morieux.  Unto  Charles  Risby,  my  youngest  son,  one  other  like  annuity  out 
of  messuage  in  ffclsham.  I  request  that  my  wife  accept  of  one  hundred  and  twenty  pounds  per 

ann2  for  life  in  lieu  of  her  Dower.  My  Mannors  &c.  unto  John  Risby  my  eldest  sonno  for  fourscore 

and  nineteen  yeares  if  he  shall  soe  long  live,  and  after  the  determination  of  that  estate  then  to 
the  use  of  Jeffry  Maltiward  Esq1'  and  Robert  Maltiward  Esqr  and  theirc  heyres  to  preserve  the 
contingent  use.  For  default  of  issue  male  of  the  body  of  the  said  John  Risby  I  give  the  same 
land  unto  the  said  Heigham  Risby  my  second  sonne  and  heyres  of  his  body,  and  for  default  of 
such  to  Charles  Risby  my  sonne  and  to  the  lieires  of  his  body  and  for  default  of  such  unto  my 
six  daughters  and  their  respective  heyres  for  ever  equally  to  be  divided.  My  cheife  Mansion  house- 
called  Thorpe  Hall  (and)  those  my  lands  in  Elmesett,  fflowton  and  Hindlesham,  late  the  said 
William  Smiths,  unto  the  said  John  Risby  my  son  and  his  lieires  ft  r  ever.  Probation  Sexti  die 
May  1687  Juramento  Elizai  Relict®  et  unicae  Execnt.  P.C.C.  67  Foote. 

By  his  will,  8  July  1662,  proved  in  the  Registry  of  the  Archdeaconry  of  Sudbury,  (Rex 

Redux,  fo.  389)  William  Smith  Esqr  of  Elmsett,  left  his  lands  to  John  Risbie  of  Thorpe  Morieux, 
the  husband  of  Elizabeth  Cornwallis  his  granddaughter.  The  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  1611,  describes 
him  as  son  and  heir  of  Adrian  Smyth.  He  had  then  two  daughters,  Sarah  and  Elizabeth.  The 
former  he  specially  commends  to  the  care  of  his  executors.  The  latter  married  Francis  Cornwallis. 
Esqr  of  Yorkshire,  and  became  the  mother  of  Elizabeth  Risby. 


72 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Hishy  inscriptions — jfclsljam  Cljnrclj. 

i 

Here  lyetli  ye  Body  of  John  Risby  Esqr  late  of  Thorpe  Hall  in  this  County,  who  had  to 
wife  Elizabeth  the  only  daughter  of  Francis  Cornwallis  Esqr  late  of  ye  County  of  Norfolk,  by  whom 
he  had  issue  3  sons  &  6  daughters,  who  departed  this  life  ye  1st  day  of  May,  1687,  in  y®  49 
year  of  his  age. 

Arms  : — On  a  bend  3  crosses  flory.  Crest  : — A  goat  passant. 

Here  lyetli  ye  Body  of  Elizabeth  Risby,  who  was  wife  of  John  Risby  Esqr  and  daughter 
of  Francis  Cornwallis  Esq'  :  who  departed  this  life  ye  13  of  Jauuay  1705,  aged  64  years. 

Arms  : — In  a  lozenge ;  Risby,  On  a  bend  3  crosses  flory.  Quartering  Cornwallis.  Guttee,  on 
a  fesse,  3  Cornish  choughs. 

Here  lieth  Interred  the  body  of  Charles  Risby  Esqr.  who  departed  this  life  the  8  of  April 
1723,  aged  40  years. 

Here  lieth  Interred  the  Body  of  Heigham  Risby  Esqr,  who  departed  this  life  the  10th  of 
July  1740  aged  64  years. 

Here  lieth  the  Body  of  Katherine  Risby,  who  departed  this  life  the  31st  October  1747, 
aged  65  years. 

Arms,  in  a  lozenge,  On  a  bend,  three  mullets. 

Davy's  Suffolk  Collections,  Add.  MS.  19,019,  fo.  8ff 


Inscription— ®Ijorpc  Jitoricn*  (tbnrclj. 

Here  lyetli  ye  Body  of  John  Risby  Esq1'  late  of  this  Parish  who  died  Jany  the  21st  Ah 
Horn  1727.  A1103  IE  tat.  64. 

Arms: — Risby,  O11  a  bend  3  cross  crosslets,  Impaling  a  fesse  between  3  escallops.  Crest: — 
On  a  chapeau,  a  goat  passant. 

Add.  MSS.  19,088,  fo.  287. 


RISBY  OF  THOBP-E  MORIEUX, 


7  3 


of  Cljorpe  iftflorteu*. 


.  .  Risby  of  Lavenham,  buried  in  the= 
churchyard  there,  had  issue  Thomas, 
William,  Robert,  John  and  Agnes. 


i — 

Thomas 
of  Lavenham 
Harl.  MS.  1560; 
Will  P.C.C.  15 
Blamyr,  18  Dec. 
1500  ;  he  had 
with  other  is¬ 
sue  : — 


Risby=T= Agnes  who 
made  Will 
Arch. 
Sudb.  13 
Aug.  1528. 


Cecily  Spring,  m. 
Robert  Sexton  of 
Lavenham,  who  in 
Will  P.C.C.  6  Ay- 
loff  A0 1517,  names 
dau.  Margery,  wife 
of  William  Risby. 


Margaret,  dau.  of  Parris  of  Lynton,=f  Thomas  Spring  of  Lavenham,  clothier,  built  the 
co.  Cambr.;  relict  of  Edward  Bullin,  I  Vestry  there;  Will  P.C.C.  29  March  1486  ;  prob.  12 
Esq.  |  Sept.  1486. 

i 

- - - - - [ 

.  May,  named=pAlice,  dau.  of  .  .  .  King,=fThomas  Spring  of=j= Alice,  dau.  of  Thomas 


as  former  hus¬ 
band  in  Thomas 
Spring’s  Will  A0 
1 523.  [Louzam 
of  Suffolk,  /lari. 
MS.  1552.] 


of  Boxford,  2d  wife  of 
Thos Spring;  Ryece;  Harl. 
MS.  3873,  p.  75.  Bridget 
Spring  her  dau.  mar'1  Wm 
Ernley.  See  his  Ped.  in 
Sussex  Visit113,  Harl.  MS. 
1046.  A 


Lavenham,  the  Rich 
Clothier.  Will  dated 
13  June  1523  ;  prob1 
3  July  1524.  To  be 
buried  in  the  church. 


Appleton  of  Liltle 
Waldingfield.  com. 
Suffolk,  by  Margery 
Crane,  1st  wife  of 
Thomas  Crane.  She 
died  20  January  1512. 


A 


Anne,  daur  of 
Tho.  Risby  of 
Lavenham,  m. 
Rob1  Groome  of 
Lavenham  in 
Com.Suff.  Hurl. 
MS.  1560,  fo. 
298. 


Bridgett,  dau.  of =p  William  Risby  of  Lavenham, =f  Margaret  May.  She  is  Thomas=p Alice  May,  de-=pSir  Richard  Ful- 


ltoger  Groome  of 
Lavenham,  Harl. 
MS.  1560, 1st  wife. 
But  query  Margery 
da.  of  Robert  Sex¬ 
ton,  1517,  named 
above  ? 


Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Thorpe 
Morieux;  Will  P.C.C.  23  Powell, 
14Nov.l551 ;  prob. 27 Nov.  1551, 
names  brother  in-law  Robert 
Sexton.  Buys  Coddenham  Hall 
Manor  of  Wm  Forthe,  1  E.  6. 
Inq.  p.m.  6  E.  6. 


named  with  her  hus¬ 
band  in  her  mother’s 
Will,  1538.  Made  Will 
as  Margaret  Risby, 
widow,  P.C.C.  4  Tashe 
8  Nov.  1552  ;  names 
sister  Fulmerston,  &c. 


Heyward  of 
Ipswich  ; 
Harl.  MS. 
1552.  Had 
son,  Thos 
H  ey  ward 
A°  1552.  ^ 


of  her 
sister  Risby, 
1552.  “Lou¬ 
zam  of  Suf¬ 
folk  ”  Harl. 
MS.  1552. 


merston  of  The  t- 
ford.  See  Ful¬ 
merston  Ped. 
Harl.  MS.  1552. 
His  dau.  Frances 
mar.  Sir  Edward 
/f^Cleere. 


Alice,  ux.  Thom¬ 
as  Munnyng  of 
Nedging.co.Suff. 
Her  Will  Arch. 
Sudb.  is  dated 
2  Aug.  1582;  she 
then  a  widow. 


J  ohnWincoll,  2d— Margery,  = 
husband,  of  Lit-  dau.  of  Ed- 
tle  Waldingfield,  ward  Rosse 
g*.  In  Will  14  of  Nay  land 
Oct.  1576  he  in  Suffolk  ; 
names  dau. -in-  sister  to 
law,  Eliz.  Win-  John  Rosse, 
tlirop.  gent.,  1557. 


T.  Robert  Risby 
of  Thorpe  Mor¬ 
ieux,  Esq.  Will 
P.C.C.  21Wrast- 
ley,  3  May  1557; 
Inq.  p.m.  3  and 
4,  P.  &  M.;  aged 
22  in  1551. 


Elizabeth,  ux. 
Nicholas 
Spring  of  La- 
venliam.Aquo 
the  Springs  of 
Loosehall  in 
Walsham. 


3.  George  trav¬ 
elled  to  Jerusa¬ 
lem  and  died 
after  his  return, 
s.p.  Sfiia  P.C.C. 
265  Daper.  Eliz. 
Springe  alsRisby 
his  sister. 


2.  Thomas  Risby=j=Jane,  da.  and  heir 
of  John  Harbottle 
of  Crowfield  in 
Suff.  His  Will, 
1576,  P.C.C.  6 
Langley  ;  his  Inq. 
p.  mort.  29  Eliza¬ 
beth. 


of  Lavenham  ;  de¬ 
clared  “  non  est 
ideot  ”  in  Inq.  2 
Eliz.  Admon. 
P.C.C.  7  May  1601. 
to  Eliz111  Wing¬ 
field. 


l 


William  Risby  of  Thorpe=f  Catherine, d.  of  George 
Morieux  ;  Will  P.C.C.  57  I  Smith  of  Cavendish  in 
Nevill,  April  1593,  then 
of  Felsham,  co. Suff. Esq. ; 
prob.  12  July  1593  ;  aged 


3  years,  1 557.  Inq.  post 
m.  36th  Elizabeth. 


Suff.  ;  colieire  to  her 
mother,  whose  Inq. 
p.m.  as  wife  of  William 
Castleton  was  taken 
26  Elizabeth. 


Elizabeth,  ux. 
John  Win  tlirop 
of  Groton  ;  she 
mar.  secondly 
1617  Reynold 
Branch  of 
Southwark. 


Margaret,  m.  1  John 
Betts  of  Eye  inSuff  oik 
2  Anthony  Gosnold. 

Thomas  and  Anne 
named  in  their  fa¬ 
ther’s  will. 


i - - 

Robert  Elizabeth,  dau.  and 

Risbye,  colieire  mar.  Hen. 

ob.  s.p.  Wingfield  of  Crow- 

field  ;  her  second 
husband  was  Thos 
Clench  of  Holbrook, 
co.  Suff. 


William  Risby  of  Thorpe=fBridget,  da. 


TT 


Morieux,  Esq.,  s.  &  h.  aet. 
18,  35  Eliz.  ;  Will  P.C.C. 
73  Clarke,  proved  7  July 
1 625;  tobebur.atFelsliam 
names  aunt  Elizabeth 
Branch.Inq.p.m.lCharles. 


of  Sir  John 
Heigham  of 
Barrow  Hall; 
married  at 
Barrow,  21 
March,  1592. 


2.  Robert  Risby,  2d  son, 
ob.  s.p.  Risby  c.  Chap¬ 
lin,  1634. 

3.  Arthur  Risby,  3d  s. 
bapt.atThorpeMorieux, 
1584  ;  living  1593. 


T 


1.  John  Risby  of  Thorpe  Morieux, =f  Margaret,  da.  of 
Esq.,  1634;  Risbye.  Chaplin-,  aged  I  Sir  Tho3  Jenny 
24  and  upwards,  1625;  m.  at  Ket-  \  of  Brightwell  and 
tlebaston  2  Oct.  1638.  Lord  of  the  j  Kettlebaston,  co. 
Manors  of  Thorpe  Morieux,  &c.  |  Suffolk. 


Penelope,  bapt.at  Thorpe 
Morieux  A0  1600  ;  mar. 
there  1  Sept.  1619  to 
Thos  Spring  of  Loose 
Hall  in  Walsham. 


4.  Henry  Risby,  4th son  ;  bapt. 
at  Thorpe  Morieux,  1586  ;  of 
Cornard  Parva,  Suffk,  gent. 
1614.  Will  nuncupv  July  or 
Aug.  1614,  P.C.C.  105  Lawe  ; 
proved  8  Nov.  1614  ;  all  to 
sister  Bridget  Melton. 

— rn - 

Susan  and 
Jane  under 
age  A0 1625. 


Elizabeth, 
died  unmar¬ 
ried  ;  named 
1593  in  her 
father’s  will. 


Joane,  da.  and 
coh.  m.  Edw. 
Grimstone, 
circa  1580  ; 
had  son  Sir 
Harbottle 
Grimstone. 

- 7"i 

Bridget,  heir  to  her 
brother  Henry  Risby, 
1614,  and  was  then 
Bridget  Melton  ;  styled 
Bridget  Redfern  in  her 
brother  W  illiam  Risby ’s 
will,  1625. 


2.  Robert 
Risby  living 
1625. 


3.  Daniel  Risby, 
bap.  at  Thorpe 
Morieux,  1605  ; 
named  in  his  fa¬ 
ther’s  will  1825. 


William  Risby, 
named  in  his 
father’s  will, 
1625. 


“  John  Risby  of  Thorpe  Morieux,  Esq.,  mar.  dau.  and  h.  of  Fran.=f  Elizabeth  Cornwallis,  granddaughter  and  heir  of  William  Smith  of 
Cornewallis.  They  sold  their  estates  to  the  yongest  family.”  Harl.  Elmsett,  co.  Suff.,  Esq.,  who  made  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  8  July  1662. 

.  ~  ’  '  ’  She  joined  her  husband  in  the  sale  of  his  manors. 

died  1705.  M.I.  in  Felsham  Church. 


MS.  1085.  Will  P.C.C.  67  Foot,  29  April  1687.  Entered  ped.  in  the 
Suffolk  Visitation,  1664.  M.I.  in  Felsham  Church. 

“T 


Born  circa  1641  ; 


John  Risby,  eldest=Mary,  dau.  of 


son,  of  Thorpe 
Morieux.Esq.  Will 
Arch.  Sudb.  2 1 
Sept.  1727.  M.I. 
in  Thorpe  Church. 
Ob.  s.p. 

r 


Tho3  Bright 
of  Thurston, 
Esq.  Will 
Arch.  Sudb.  ; 
prob.1738;  ob. 
s.p. 


Heigham  Risby,  Esq.= 
2d  son,  b.  circa  1676; 
d.  174C,  aet.  64. 
M.I.  in  Felsham 
Church.  Lands  in 
Thorpe  Morieux. 


^Elizabeth. 


Charles  Risby, 
Esq.,  youngest 
son,  1687 ;  died 
1723,  aged  40- 
M.I.  in  Felsham 
Church. 


rn — i — i - 

Elizabeth, 
Margaret, 
Jane,  Mary 
and  Anne, 
who  mard 
Rev.  Edwd 
Grove,  1697 


Katherine  Risby  of  Thorpe  Morieux  ; 
Will  Arch.  Sudb.,  24  June  1741  ;  prob. 
11  Nov.  1747.  Brooke  Hall  in  Felsham 
and  Advowson  of  Thorpe  Morieux  to 
nephew  Rev.  John  Fiske.  Nieces  Edge 
and  Dawson  also  named.  M.I.  in  Fel¬ 
sham  Church.  Ob.  s.p. 


Jane  Risby,  dau.  and  coheir,  married  Robert  Sparrow  of  Ofton,  co.  Suffolk,  whose  sole  daughter  and  heiress,  Jane  Sparrow, 
married  circa  1720,  John  Sparrow  of  Halsted  in  Essex.  A  quo  Sparrow  of  Gosfield.  See  Burke’s  'Landed  Gentry. 


of  Ijaolctgl). 


WtU  of  Joljtt  §m,  IBtsIjnp  of  Hatl)  attfr  ®Mls,  1607. 

In  the  name  of  God  :  Amen.  I  John  Still,  by  the  permissyon  of  God  Bisshoppe  of  Bathe 
and  Wells,  doo  hereby  ordayne  and  make  this  my  laste  will  and  testamente.  I  doo  corny tte  my  soule 
into  the  most  mercifull  hands  of  my  heauenlie  ffather  :  and  my  bodye  to  be  buryed  in  the 
Cathedrall  Churche  of  Wells.  I  geue  Thirtye  poundes  for  the  makinge  of  a  monumente  or  tombe 
of  remembrance  nppon  the  place  where  my  bodye  shalbe  bnryed.  A  farme  house  and  free  lands 
in  Somerton  Erly  in  the  Countie  of  Somersett  is  assured  to  my  wife  Mistris  Jane  Still  during 
her  life,  in  consideration  of  dower,  and  after  her  decease  to  my  yongest  sonne  Thomas  Still.  I 
dooe  geve  to  my  welbeloued  wife  the  some  of  ffyue  hundred  poundes.  Also  I  doe  further  geue 
vnto  my  said  wife  my  great  gilte  bason  and  ewer,  and  that  gilte  wreathen  cuppe  or  nutt  (so  vsed 
to  be  called  by  vs)  withe  a  gilte  cover  therevnto  belonginge  wch  my  brother  Mr  Edwarde  Horner 
gave  vnto  vs  at  the  daye  of  oure  maryage.  Item,  I  doe  geue  and  bequeathe  to  Nathaniel  Still 
my  eldest  sonne  all  that  my  messuage,  house  and  lands  in  Hadley  within  the  countie  of  Suff: 
wch  I  boughte  of  Thomas  Alabaster  of  the  same  towne,  clothier,  (my  father  in  lawe).  For  defaulte 
of  lawfull  issue  of  sayde  Nathanyell,  said  houses  and  lands  to  remayne  to  John  Still  my  seconde 
sonne.  For  default  of  issue  of  the  said  John,  said  houses  Ac.  to  Thomas  Still  my  thirde  sonne.  If 
all  my  said  three  sonnes  departe  this  life  without  issue,  said  lands  etc.  in  Hadley  to  my  three  daughters, 
Anne  Eyre,  Elizabeth  Edwardes  and  Mary  Jones  A  to  their  heires  for  ever.  To  my  saide  sonne 
Nathaniel  Still  the  Mannor  House  of  Hutton  in  ye  Countie  of  Somersett  purchased  in  October  1604. 
Item  I  geue  to  my  second  sonne  John  Still  &  the  heires  of  his  body  my  house  in  ffodington  in  the 
countie  of  Som'sett.  The  impropriation  of  Milton  Clevedon  in  the  countie  of  Somerset  to  my  sonne 
Thomas  Still  and  his  heires  for  ever.  My  wife  Mistris  Jane  Still  did  with  her  money  purchase  the  mannor 
of  Mourton  in  the  countie  of  Somerset  &  Mourton  farme,  in  the  names  of  Mr  Thomas  Horner  of  Clofford 
Esquier  her  brother,  and  of  Mr  John  Horner,  his  sonne  &  heire,  in  the  firste  yeare  of  Kinge  James,  to 
the  only  use  of  the  said  Jane  &  the  heires  of  her  body  : — namely  to  the  use  of  Thomas  Still  our  sonne. 
I  geue  vnto  my  yongest  sonne,  [the  said]  Thomas  Still,  the  one  moiety  of  the  lease  of  the  Mannor  of 


STILL  OF  HADLEIGH. 


75 


Buckland  belonging  to  the  Bisshopprick  of  Bathe  and  Wells :  the  other  haulf  to  my  eldest  sonne. 
To  my  sonne  John  Still  fyve  hundred  powndes  to  be  added  to  his  former  gifte  of  my  house  in 
ffodington,  besides  the  Tenne  poundes  w<*  his  grandfather  Thomas  Alabaster  of  Hadley  gave  vnto 
him  To  my  youngest  sonne  Thomas  Still  fyue  hundred  powndes.  To  my  sonne  in  lawe  Roberte 
Eyr  the  some  of  One  hundred  poundes.  To  him  and  to  my  daughter  Anne  Eyr  his  wife  one 
standinge  guilte  cuppe  of  siluer  with  cover,  W*  I  had  of  the  late  Quenes  Mat*  for  a  newe  yeares 
gifte.  The  like  guilte  cuppe  I  geue  to  my  sonne  and  daughter  Mr  Richard  Edwardes  of  Lon  on : 
and  the  like  gilte  siluer  cuppe  to  my  sonne  in  law  Mr  Seston  Jones  and  to  my  daughter  Mary 
Jones  his  wife.  To  my  sonne  in  lawe  Mr  William  Morgan  one  like  standinge  gilte  cuppe.  To  evene 

of  those  sixe  children  wch  my  saide  sonne  Morgan  had  by  my  good  daughter  Sara  his  wife.  George 

Morgan,  one  of  [their]  sonnes  is  lame  of  his  feete.  To  John,  William,  Roberte,  Mary  A  Sara 
Mor-an.  To  the  children  of  my  sonne  Eyr:— of  my  daughter  Edwardes.  I  geue  to  the  poore 
people  of  Wells  the  some  of  Three  hundred  poundes,  that  newe  places  for  Allmose  men,  or 

verie  a^ed  old  woemen,  may  be  made  readie  w%in  the  nowe  almose  house  or  elsewhere  in  Welles. 
Quinto  ffebruarij  1607,  I  doe  further  geue  to  the  said  Allmose  house  and  poore,  twoo  hundred  poundes 
more  •  in  toto  ffyue  hundred  poundes.  I  doe  bequeathe  to  Trynitie  Colledge  in  Cambridge  the  some 
of  thirtie  poundes,  to  be  layde  oute  in  one  fayre  and  large  standinge  cuppe  withe  a  cover  gilte, 
enameled  I  with]  the  armes  of  the  same  Colledge,  and  allso  myne  owne  pryuate  armes  and  the  armes 
of  Wells  church,  both  ioyned  together  in  one  fitt  scutchion,  as  a  token  of  my  love  and  remembraunce. 
To  the  oulde  poore  people  of  Hadley  in  Suffolke,  as  a  token  of  my  oulde  loue  to  the  place  o  my 
mynisterye,  the  some  of  fiftie  poundes,  To  my  sister  Wynnyarlc  of  Cambridge.  To  my  good  brot  er 
in  lawe  Mr  Thomas  Horner  of  Clofford  Esqr.  My  brother  W-  Still.  My  cosen  John  Still,  my 
chaplen.  My  brother  in  lawe  Mr  John  Hipsley.  To  my  sister  nowe  the  wife  of  Mr  Richard  Scales. 
To  my  brother  in  lawe  Mr  John  Dorrington  of  London  merchante  and  to  my  sister  Ins  wife.  o 
my  brother  in  lawe  John  Alabaster  of  Hadley  clothier  and  to  my  sister  Ins  wife.  My  cosen  M'  John 
Runnyon  To  Mr  Deane  of  this  Cathedrall  churche  of  Wells  and  to  everye  of  then  Canon 

Residentiaries  in  golde,  to  make  everie  of  them  a  ringe  in  token  of  oure  Christyan  societie  together 
Item  I  doo  geue  to  the  Vicars  Corails  of  the  Cathedrall,  to  be  spent  in  the  amending  of 
comons  in  their  comon  hall,  the  some  of  twentie  pounds.  Item  I  appointe  my  elldest  sonne 

Nathaniell  Still  my  sole  executor.  W  Doctor  James  my  chauncellor  and  my  twoo  sonnes  in  lawe 
Mr  Robert  Eyr  and  [blank]  to  be  the  supvisors  and  overseers.  I  haue  lefte  m  wntinge  a  brei  e 
estimat  what  I  haue  at  this  tyme  in  readye  money,  and  what  in  debts  ;  what  in  plate,  Cattell 
Ac.  &c.  and  the  Stewarde  of  my  house  John  Sear  kepeth  another  coppie.  Given  this  fourth 
ffebruarye  1607.  John  Bath  &  Welles.  Probate  28  April  1608,  Juramento  ^11.^01^^ 

Executors- 

By  Fine  in  Hillary  Term,  7  James  I,  Nathaniel  Still  and  John  Still  sold  their  lands  in 
Hadleigh  to  John  Cawton. 

The  mural  monument,  with  recumbent  effigy,  of  Bishop  Still,  is  well  known  to  all  who  hare 
visited  W ells  Cathedral. 


L2 


76 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Inscription  in  HaMrigb  ftbnrclj. 

>■;  J 

On  Monumental  Brass  beneath  the  figure  of  a  woman : — 

Hie  matrum  matrona  jacet  pietatis  imago, 

Exemplum  vita,  speculum  virtutis  honesti, 

Verus  Alabaster  maritis  quae  vivit  in  cevum, 

■  Et  quam  certa  fides  coelo  super  astra  locavit. 

In  obitum  Annas  Still,  uxoris  Johi  Epi  Bathonie  .  .  rio  quae  abijt  April  15,  A0  1593. 

Davy  MSS.,  “  Hundred  of  Cosford.” 


Priitgm* 

Arms  : — Sable,  Guttee  d’eau,  three  roses  argent.  “  Per  Detliick,  Garter,  y°  21  of  June.”  Sari.  MS.  1820,  fo.  1. 

Add  MS.  5822,  Mus.  Brit.  Coles’  MS.,  vol.  xxi.,  fo,  134b  ;  with  excerpt  from  Winthrop  Pedigree,  Harl.  MS.  1560 
and  notes  from  the  Parish  Registers  of  Hadleigh. 


VVm  Still  de  Grantham  in  co.  Lincohi.=f= 


\Vm  Stilh 
de  Gran¬ 
tham,  2 
Filius. 


-Eliz:  Fi- 
lia  Tho. 
Pecliell 
&c. 


Jana  Filia  Jo -=pJohes  Still  Filius  pri-: 


A 


h’is  Horner  de 
Cloford  in 
com.  Somerset 
militis  2  uxor. 


Thomas  Still,  3  son,  Atatis  28,  1623. 


mus  Epus  Bath  and 
Wells  obiit  26  Feb¬ 
ruary  1607.  [Hec¬ 
tor  of  Hadleigh, 
Suffolk, 1571-1592.] 


-Anna  Filia  Tho: 
Alablasterde  Had¬ 
ley  in  com.  Suf¬ 
folk  uxor  prima. 
[Brass  in  Had¬ 
leigh  Church.] 


[Allice,  d.  of  =Adam  Win-  3.  Thomas. 


Still  in  com.  Lin- 
con,  sister  of 
John  Still,  bis¬ 
hop  of  Bath  and 
Wells  ;  Ob.  s.p. 


tlirop  of  Gro¬ 
ton  in  com. 
Suff.  Harl. 
MS.  1560.] 


4.  Georgius. 


Nathaniel  Still 
Hulton  in  com. 
Somers.  Arm.  Fil.  & 
Heres  Supstes  1623. 
[Bapt.  at  Hadleigh, 
1579.] 


de=J=Jana  Filia 
‘  Wm  Whit¬ 
more  de  Ci- 
vitate  Lon¬ 
don. 


T 


Johes  Still  de=pAnna  Filia 


Dursley  in  com. 
Som.  2  Filius. 
[Bapt.  at  Had¬ 
leigh,  1587.] 


Tho:  Baynard 
de  Coleborne 
in  com.  Wilts. 


Sara  Filia  primo- 
genita  uxor  Willi. 
Morgan  de  War- 
min.-ter.  [Bapt  at 
Hadleigh,  1575.] 


- , - | - 1 

Anna  2  Filia  Eliz:  3  Filia  Maria  4  Fi- 
ux.  Rob:  nuptaKich-  lia.ux.  Ces- 
E3-re  de  ards  Ed-  ton  Jones. 
Wells.  wards  de  [Bapt.  at 
[Bap.1581.]  London.  Hadleigh, 
[Bap. 1583.]  1585.] 


Anna  Filia  1  &  coh: 
rot.  10. 


2.  Jana  set:  9. 

3.  Marg1  set:  8. 


4.  Eliz.  sot. 


Anna  Filia  unica  setatis  4  Annorum. 


flkotunc  of  Ctitoartistone. 


Will  of  Jfoljtt  JJrohme  of  lEttbam,  1562. 

In  the  Name  of  God  Amen.  The  ixth  daye  of  Marche  in  the  yere  of  or  Lord  god  1562  Ac. 

I  John  Brown  of  Withum  [Witham,  co.  Essex]  Ac.  make  this  my  testament  Ac.  [sac] .  ffurst  I 

bequeth  my  soull  to  god  Ac.  To  Thomas  my  sonne  and  Elizabeth  his  wief  my  house  or  tenement 
called  Polles,  and  unto  the  heyres  of  their  two  boiyes,  and  for  lack  of  issue  I  bequeth  the  said 
house  vnto  Elizabeth  Raven  my  doughter,  and  for  lack  of  issue  of  the  said  Elizabeth  I  bequeth  the 
house  aforesaid  unto  Denys  Amys  and  to  the  heyres  of  her  bodye  lawfully  begotten,  and  for  lack 
of  issue  of  the  said  Denys  vnto  Thomas  Brown  my  brother  and  the  heyres  of  his  bodye,  and  for 
lack  of  issue  of  the  said  Thomas  I  will  the  said  tenement  to  the  next  of  my  bloode  and  to  their 
heyres  for  ever.  To  Henry  Brown  my  sonne  xxs.  To  John  Raven  my  sonne  in  law  iij11  vi8  viijd. 
Vnto  Denys  Amys  iij'1  vi8  viijd  at  the  daye  of  her  mariedge.  To  the  child11  of  Elizabeth 
Ravens  [sic].  To  Thomas  Brown  my  brother  xxs.  Vnto  Henry  Browns  iiij  childeru  that  is  to 

saye,  Margery,  Anne,  Joan  and  Anne  ye  yonger,  unto  euy9  one  of  them  xx\  Thomas  Brown  my 

sonne  I  ordeyn  and  make  my  executo1'.  Probatum  xix  Aplis  1563. 

Arch.  Colchester.  Liber  “  Puckell,”  1558-1666,  fo.  lxxxvi0. 

Clearly  the  will  of  the  father  of  Henry  Browne  of  Edwardstone,  whose  four  daughters  and  sister 
it  names.  This  is  important,  as  there  were  Brownes  of  Prittlewell  of  Visitation  descent  and 
of  quite  another  family.  It  is  to  be  regretted  that  the  Prittlewell  Registers  of  this  period  are  lost. 


Will  of  Ipnrij  fBrnhm*  of  (B&hmrMon£«  1595. 

Henry  Browne  of  Milton  in  Prittlewell  in  the  countie  of  Essex  yeoman,  23rd  June,  35 
Elizabeth,  ffirst  and  before  all  other  things  I  giue  my  sowle  to  almightie  God  who  made  me,  and 
to  Jesus  Christ  who  hath  redeamed  me,  and  to  the  holie  ghoste  who  sanctifieth  me,  acknowledging 
theis  three  persons  to  be  one  God,  Item  I  giue  and  bequeathe  to  Margaret  my  wief  the  summe 
of  twentie  pounds  of  lawful  money  of  England,  to  be  paid  to  her  so  long  as  it  shall  please  god  to 
giue  her  lief,  everye  six  monthes  tenne  poundes,  and  all  other  goodes  that  she  brought  to  me,  as 
householde,  corne,  catell  and  leases,  and  my  parte  of  the  shipp.  To  my  daughter  Margerio  now 
wiffe  of  Mr  Weston,  Vicar  of  Wormingfourde,  the  house  and  land  bought  of  M1'  Hanam,  to  her  and 
to  the  heires  of  her  bodie  she  had  by  her  husband  Speade.  To  John  Speade  her  sonne  the  summe 
of  fiftie  poundes  at  the  daye  of  his  marriage  or  his  age  of  four  and  twentie  yeares.  To  Benjamin 
Speade  her  sonne  and  Anne  Speade  her  daughter  the  like  porcon.  To  my  daughter  Anne  Snellinge 
ray  dye-house  in  Boxforde  strcat.  To  Anne  Snelling  her  daughter  fiftie  poundes  at  the  daye  of  her 


78 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


marriage.  To  Joane  Hilles  my  daughter  my  liovse  and  lands  in  Polsted.  To  William  Hilles  her 
sonne  and  Joane  Hilles  and  Elizabeth  Hilles  her  daughters  fiftie  poundes  [apiece].  To  Anne 
Wynthropp  my  daughter  my  mansion  howse  &c.  To  John  Wynthropp  fiftie  poundes  and  to  Anne 
Wynthropp  and  Jane  Wynthropp  fiftie  poundes  [apiece]  at  their  ages  of  four  and  twentye  yeares 
or  dayes  of  marriage.  My  brother  Raven,  my  sister  his  wiffe  and  eurie  of  their  children.  My 
brother  Browne  his  children.  Adam  Wynthropp  sole  executor.  Legacies  to  the  poore  of  Prittlewell 
and  Edwardstone  [and  to  othersj  to  be  paid  by  my  wief  out  of  my  shippe.  Probatum  27  January 
1596,  Juramento  Adami  Wynthropp.  P.C.C.  2  Cobham. 


Will  of  Huger  Weston,  1605. 

5  Feb.  1605.  Roger  Weston,  Clerke,  Vicar  of  Wormingford  co.  Essex.  To  Ann  Weston  my 
eldest  dawghter  my  house  in  Nayland  [co.  Suffolk]  which  I  bought  of  Josua  Spreade  after  the 
decease  of  Margery  my  wief.  In  like  manner  I  give  vnto  the  saide  Anne  the  parte  of  lande  the 
wch  I  bought  of  Margery  my  wief  and  John  Speede.  Item  vnto  Avis  my  second  dawghter  all  those 
my  landes  and  tenemts  the  wch  I  bowghte  of  Margery  my  wief  and  Josua  Speede  lyinge  in  Seamer, 
Whatfield  and  Nauton  [co.  SuffJ.  Item  vnto  Elizabeth  Weston  all  my  coppie  howse  and  lande 
lyeing  in  Hadlie,  and  ffortie  poundes  of  lawfull  mouney  of  England  at  the  age  of  one  and  twentie. 
The  reste  of  my  goods  parte  and  parte  like  [to]  the  three  sisters  Anne,  Avis  and  Elizabeth,  being 
the  dawghters  of  [me]  the  saide  Roger  Weston.  I  doe  appoynte  Doctor  Duke  my  kynde  cozen 
sole  executor.  Codicill  28  Novr  1608.  The  said  Roger  Weston  lyeing  sicke  in  London,  did  further 
wall  vnto  his  dawghter  Avis  Greaton  the  some  of  ffiftie  pounds  woh  was  owinge  vnto  him  by 
her  husbande,  and  vnto  his  dawghter  Elizabeth  Weston  the  some  of  threescore  poundes  over  and 
above  the  ffortie  poundes  bequeathed  vnto  her  in  his  last  will. 

28  Jan.  1608.  Viro  Mro  Johi  Duke  iti  Medicinis  Doctori  expresse  renuntiavit.  Comittatur 
Avitie  Greton  ais  Weston,  filie  dci  diet  defunct,  vxori  Radulphi  Greton. 

London  Consistory,  “Sperin,”  fo.  408. 


®tili  of  John  Jlndliug  of  Uorforft,  1617. 

John  Snelling  of  Boxford  co.  Suffolk,  clothier,  26  Jan.  1617.  To  Judith  my  wife  my  bond 
to  Francis  Choppin  and  Raphe  Choppin,  her  bretheren,  for  £800,  assuring  her  joynture  of  £50  per 
annum  which  is  performed  by  me  ;  she  not  to  marry  before  she  is  forty  years  of  age.  My  house 
<fcc.  in  Boxforde.  To  my  cousin  William  Amies  £48.  [This  was  Ames,  the  learned  Puritan  divine, 
whose  mother  was  a  Snelling.]  To  Elizabeth  Smyth  my  sisters  daughter,  now  wife  of  .  .  .  Martyn 
of  Ipswich,  saylor,  £30.  To  Joyce  Snelling,  my  brother  William  Snellings  daughter,  servant  to 
Mr  Offley  of  London,  £50.  Children  of  Thomas  Grimwade  of  Needginge  my  sisters  son.  To 
Robert  ffrench  my  sisters  son  threescore  pounds  of  Indico,  as  I  gave  his  brother  John.  To 
Margaret  Butcher  my  sister  Smiths  daughter.  My  sister  Weston,  my  first  wives  sister.  To  my 
son  and  daughter’s  four  daughters,  Mary,  Elizabeth,  Anna  and  Judith  each  £150.  To  John  Duke 
and  Anna  Duke  his  wife  all  those  houses,  lands  &c.  in  Boxford  and  Saffron  Walden  co.  Essex 
after  the  decease  of  my  wife.  Rest  of  my  goods  to  my  son  John  Duke  ;  he  to  be  sole  executor. 
Probate  16  May  1618  juramento  Johannis  Duke  Medicini  Docris  exor. 

Snia  [Sententia  or  Decree]  inter  John  Duke  ex,r  et  Judith  Snelling  relc. 

P.C.C.  48  Meade. 


BROWNE  OF  EDWARDSTONE. 


7$ 


By  his  Inquisition  Post  Mortem  (Palmer’s  Calendars,  100,  fo.  424)  it  would  appear  that 
John  Suelling,  who  died  8  March,  15  James  I.,  was  seized  of  the  manor  of  Shimplingthorne,  co. 
Suffolk,  and  of  lands  in  Suffolk  and  Essex.  Anne  his  daughter  and  sole  heiress,  wife  of  John 
Duke,  M.D.,  being  then  thirty  years  of  age. 

In  the  38th  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth  John  Snelling,  in  conjunction  with  Philip  Gostlin  (whose 
son,  Thomas  Gostlin,  married  one  of  the  daughters  of  the  third  Adam  Winthrop),  founded  the  free 
grammar  school  of  Boxford.  The  charter  establishing  this  institution  will  be  given,  with  the  other 
evidences  of  the  Gostlin  family,  further  on. 


Mill  of  Jokxx  fluke  of  (Kokbester,  1629. 

I  John  Duke  of  Colchester,  desirous  to  performe  the  dutie  of  a  Christian  man  to  leaue  myne 
estate  in  such  a  certaintie  as  that  there  maie  be  noe  difference  about  the  same  after  my  death, 
doe  make  my  will  in  forme  following.  And  first  I  bequeath  my  soule  to  my  good  god,  from 
whom  I  certainely  expect  everlastinge  happines  by  the  all  sufficient  sacrifice  of  my  lord  Jesus 
Chi'ist.  And  for  my  bodie  my  will  is  that  without  pompe  it  be  comitted  to  the  earth.  I  togeather 
with  my  beloved  wief,  Anna  Duke,  haue  already  ioyned  in  the  settlinge  of  my  landes,  beinge 
freehould,  in  Essex  and  Suffolke,  vpon  our  three  children,  Mary,  Elizabeth  and  Judith.  Anne  my 

wief  shall  haue  my  coppihould  landes  and  tenements  in  Bildeston  and  Nedginge  in  the  countie  of 

Suffolk,  and  in  little  Bromley  in  the  countie  of  Essex,  duringe  the  terme  of  her  naturall  lief,  and 
after  her  decease  the  same  shall  remayne  to  the  vse  of  my  daughter  Judith  Duke,  and  for  default 
of  yssue  to  the  vse  of  Mary  Wright  wief  of  Lawrence  Wright,  Doctor  of  Physicke,  and  Elizabeth 

Duke,  my  daughters,  their  heires  and  assignes  for  ever.  To  the  said  Anna  Duke  my  wief  my 

coppihould  wood  called  ffroste  grove  in  Langham  in  the  countie  of  Essex,  and  after  her  decease 
to  Elizabeth  Duke  my  daughter.  All  the  lands  and  tenements  lying  in  Norfolke,  which  I  purchased 
of  Mr  ffountaine,  vnto  the  aforesaid  Anne  my  wief,  vpon  condicon  that  the  saide  Anne  be  bound 
for  the  true  payment  vnto  my  three  daughters  Marie,  Elizabeth,  and  Judith  of  all  legacies.  Vnto 
my  daughter  Marie  one  liundreth  and  fiftie  pounds  ;  and  to  each  of  my  daughters,  Elizabeth  and 
Judith  fortie  pounds  p  ann.  vntill  their  severall  ages  of  twentie  yeares  and  one  or  marriage  daies, 
and  paying  also  vnto  each,  at  their  severall  ages  of  twentie  yeares  and  one,  the  some  of  seaven 

hundreth  pounds  a  peece,  in  full  satisfaction  of  the  last  will  of  John  Snelling  their  grandfather.  I 

giue  and  bequeath  to  my  lovinge  sonne  Lawrence  Wright  all  my  bookes  except  my  English  books, 
which  I  giue  to  my  wife  to  dispose  of  to  her  children.  To  my  welbeloued  cosens  Mr  John  Winthrop 
and  William  Armitage,  to  either  of  them  three  poundes  to  make  them  rings ;  whom  I  make 
supervisors.  To  the  two  children  of  Prudence  Thorne  my  sisters  daughters  deceased,  to  either  of 
them  thirtie  shillings.  To  Anna  Hiuffrey  five  poundes.  To  the  poore  of  Colchester  twentie  poundes. 
All  my  goodes,  Jewells,  and  househould  stuffe,  to  my  well  beloued  wief,  Anna  Duke,  for  life :  after 
her  dicease  to  my  three  daughters  or  their  posteritie,  as  my  said  wief  shall  dispose  vnto  them  by 
her  last  will.  I  ordaine  said  wief  sole  executrix  to  see  my  children  brought  vpp  in  good  nurture 

and  the  feare  of  the  lord  vntill  they  be  married.  This  my  will  I  haue  written  with  myne  owne 

hand  and  published  the  thirtie  daie  of  Aprill  1629.  There  is  due  to  the  executors  of  Macillis 
Greenerice,  fower  score  ster  [s/c]  of  lawfull  money  of  England  :  my  will  is  that  that  some  shall  be  paid 
by  myne  executrix.  I  giue  to  Marie  Wright  my  daughter  all  my  coppihould  land  in  Lexden  neere 
Colchester.  To  Judith  Duke  my  coppihould  land  in  little  Bently,  and  for  want  of  yssue,  to  the 
right  heires  of  me  the  said  John  Duke.  And  whereas  my  will  was  dated  before  the  last  of  Aprill, 
this  was  thus  perfected  the  first  daie  of  May.  Gyles  ffirmin,  a  witness.  Probatum  27  Junij 
1629,  juramento  Anne  Duke  relicte  et  executricis.  P.C.C.  53  Ridley. 


80 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  dljontas  ffiooke  of  fUbmarsb,  1679. 

Thomas  Coke  of  Pebmarsh  in  the  county  of  Essex  Esquire.  My  desire  is  that  my  body  may 
be  decently  buried,  without  pompe  and  ceremonyes,  in  the  churchyard  of  Pebmarsh,  betwene  the 
graves  of  my  beloved  and  entirely  loving  wives,  Elizabeth  and  Judith.  And  being  so  buried,  I 
require  mine  executors  to  cause  our  three  grves  (together  with  my  sonne  John’s  on  the  northside 
of  his  mother’s)  to  be  raised  with  good  bricke,  and  a  large  stone  to  be  laid  vpon  them.  Tenne 
li.  shall  be  laid  out  on  a  purchase  of  some  house  or  houses  neare  the  church,  to  be  imployed 
for  the  more  comfortable  releife  of  the  aged  poore  of  Pebmersh,  according  to  the  intention  of  the 
ffirst  donors,  in  addition  to  the  provisions  [already  made].  I  doe  also  give  ffive  pounds  more  to 
be  distributed  amonge  the  poorer  sort  of  wel  disposed  people.  Item  to  every  of  my  brothers  and 
sisters  children,  twenty  pounds  a  peece.  Eleven  pounds  more  to  be  distributed  among  such  poore 
ministeres  as  are  turned  out  of  their  livings  because  they  conforme  not.  To  Joseph  Coke,  my 
brother,  and  his  wife  ;  M1S  Arrowsmith  ;  Mrs  Parsons  and  MrB  Horton  [property]  as  was  Mr  Percivalls 
their  ffather  in  his  life  time.  It.  I  do  giue  vnto  my  daughter  Elizabeth  her  mothers  Bible,  that 
she  may  improue  it  as  she  did.  It.  vnto  Joseph  Coke  my  brother  ffifteene  hundred  pounds  for 
the  redeeming  of  Huntshall  in  Pebmersh,  vpon  this  condition,  that  if  my  sonne  and  daughter 
Parsons  shall  release  vnto  him  all  the  right  which  they  haue  in  my  said  ffarme  called  Huntshall, 
this  bequest  to  be  void.  And  I  do  then  give  Huntshall  vnto  my  said  brother  Joseph,  and  after 
his  decease  to  his  son  Thomas  and  his  heirs  for  ever,  [the  latter]  paying  vnto  his  sisters  here  in 
England  twenty  pounds  a  peice,  and  to  his  brother  and  sister  in  New  England,  also  twenty  pounds 
a  peice.  I  do  give  to  be  solde  by  my  executors,  my  ffarme  in  Gestingthorpe  called  Goddards,  and 
[a]  ffarme  in  Pebmershe.  All  the  residue  of  my  reall  and  personall  estate  vnto  Elizabeth  my 
daughter,  and  after  her  decease,  the  goods  to  her  children  as  she  shall  please,  and  the  land  and 
real  estate  to  her  sonne  John  Parsons  my  grandchild,  and  to  the  heires  of  his  body,  his  mother 
allowing  him  good  maintenance  for  his  liberall  education,  and  he  (when  he  shall  enjoy  the  land) 
paying  to  his  sister  Anthonea  three  hundred  pounds,  and  the  rest  of  his  mothers  children,  which 
she  may  hereafter  haue,  one  hundred  pounds  a  peece.  Item  I  doe  giue  vnto  Anthony  Parsons  my 
sonne  (if  he  will  accept  of  it)  my  best  ffurre  coat  and  what  bookes  he  please.  My  Polyglott  Bible 
to  my  nephew  Grandorge,  and  my  watch  to  my  cozen  Samuell  Bead,  and  my  law  books  to  my 
nephew  John  Bennett.  Lastly  I  ordaine  my  welbeloved  daughter  Elizabeth  Parsons,  my  cozen 
Samuell  Read,  my  nephew  John  Bennett  and  my  nephew  Isaac  Grandridge  [«c],  executors.  The 
—  day  of  January  1679.  Probatum  vicesimo  quarto  Novembris,  1682,  Juramento  Johannis  Bennett,  &c. 

P.C.C.  128  Cottle. 

Thomas  Cooke  was  Colonel  of  the  Militia  for  Essex  during  the  Civil  Wars.  He  was  created 
D.C.L.  at  Oxford,  9  Sept.,  1651,  and  in  1654,  M.P.  for  lissex  in  Cromwell’s  Parliament.  He 
married,  first,  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  co-heir  of  John  Duke  of  Colchester,  M.D.,  by  whom  he  had 
seven  sons  and  four  daughters.  His  second  wife  was  Judith,  daughter  of  Oliver  St.  John,  of  Keyshoe 
in  Bedfordshire,  Esq.  He  dyed  about  1684.  Hunt’s  tenement  in  Pebmarsh  hath  since  belonged  to 
Anthony  Parsons  his  sonne  in  law  and  heir.  Morant’s  “  Essex,”  Vol.  II.,  p.  263. 


81 


BROWNE  OF  EDWARDSTONE. 

MU  nf  (BUjakllj  parsons,  1680, 

Elizabeth  Parsons,  wife  of  Anthony  Parsons  of  Fetter  Lane  in  London,  this - day  of  August 

1680.  To  my  husband  Anthony  Parsons  my  moneys  upon  Hunts  Hall,  being  five  hundred  pounds,  for  life, 
and  after  his  decease  to  my  deare  daughter  Antonia.  If  she  die  without  issue,  the  same  moneys  to  my  sone 
Duke  Parsons,  and  failing  issue  of  his  body,  remainder  to  my  son  John  Parsons.  My  land  in  Pebmarsh  and 
Much  Henny  in  the  County  of  Essex  to  my  husband  for  life  ;  then  to  my  said  son  Duke  Parsons.  My  son 
in  law  Thomas  Parsons  and  my  daughter  in  law  Katherine  Parsons.  Thomas  Parsons  my  nephew  of  Milton 
in  Oxfordshire.  Plate  with  my  husbands  arms  and  mine  upon  it,  and  that  which  was  my  fathers,  and  both 
my  mothers,  to  my  three  children.  My  husband  to  be  executor.  If  all  my  children  die  without  heirs  of 
their  bodies  my  lands  to  go  to  my  mothers  relations,  John  Paynell  my  kinsman  of  Belough  in  Norfolk,  and 
his  two  sisters  ffrances  Broome  of  Norwich  and  Judith  Paynell  my  kinswoman.  Probatum  4  Feb.  1681 
juramento  Anthonij  Parsons  Armigeri,  mariti  et  executoris.  P.C.C.  23  Cottle. 


feljwjtwr  3BxlL  Sdkforft  t  Urotoiw,  1588, 

To  the  right  honorable  Sr  Wyttm  Cycell  Knyght,  Lord  Burleigh,  Sr  Walter  Mildmay  Knyght 
Chauncellor  of  her  Maties  Court  of  Eschequer,  Sr  Roger  Manwood  Knyght  Ld  Cheife  Baron  of  the  sayd 
Court.  Humblye  complaynyng  sheweth  vnto  yor  honors  Henry  Sackford  Esquyre,  one  of  the  Maysters 
of  her  Matles  privie  Purse.  Yor  orator  by  casualtie  of  shipwreacke  is  become  greatlye  impou;  yshed  and 
indebted ;  namely  to  one  Henry  Browne  &  one  Phyllip  Gostling  of  Boxford  in  the  countye  of  Suffolke, 
clothyers,  to  one  Henrye  Vyntner  of  Edwardstone  in  the  sayd  countye  &c.,  &c.  in  great  sumes  of  money. 
Which  debts  oryginally  grewe  for  clothes  and  other  wares  wcU  yor  orator  was  enforced  to  take  vpp  vppon 
many  a  hard  penyworth ;  yett  vor  orator  entendeth  to  make  full  satisfactyon  yf  there  myght  be  reason¬ 
able  tyme  pmytted  vnto  hym.  And  further  yor  orator  standeth  indebted  vnto  her  Matie  by  reason  of 
money  by  hym  received ;  for  the  payment  of  wch  yor  orators  lands  and  goods  are  fyrst  lyable.  Also  yor 
orator  is  an  Accomptant  in  her  Maties  Court  of  Eschequer  &  ought  to  haue  the  priviledge  of  the  sayd  Court. 
But  so  yt  is  that  the  aforesayd  Henry  Browne,  Phyllip  Gostlyng,  &c.  Ac.  haue  comenced  their  sen;  all  suyts 
agaynst  yor  orator  at  the  corhon  lawe,  entending  his  vtter  vndoing.  May  yt  please  yor  good  Lp9  to  grant 
the  Quenes  Maties  gracious  wrytte  of  Subpen9  to  be  directed  to  the  sayd  Henrye  Browne  &o.  oomaunding 
them  to  appeare  in  the  Quenes  Court  of  Eschequer,  and  to  desist  from  sueing  yor  orator  at  the  comon  lawe. 
And  yor  sayd  orator  shall  dailie  praye  vnto  almyghtie  God  for  the  pspous  estates  &  long  lyves  of  yor  honors. 

The  Jointe  &  sefilall  Aunsweare  of  Henrye  Browne  &  Phillipe  Goslyn  &  Henrye  Vyntener  defendtf. 
Phillipe  Goslyn  sayeth  that  he  did  sell  vnto  Thomas  Calthrope  and  Michael  Stacye,  deputies  for  Compl', 
about  fortye  brod  colored  clothes  for  two  hundreth  and  thirtye  pounds,  of  which  ther  remayneth  dewe  the 
some  of  fortye  pounds  wch  this  Defend11  hath  gentlye  required  of  the  PP,  but  hath  receyved  verye  hard 
speaches.  Whervppon  this  Defend1  hath  comenced  suyte  in  her  Maties  Court  of  Comon  Plees  as  he  thinketh 
lawful]  is  for  hym  to  doe.  And  Henry  Browne  sayeth  that  in  or  about  the  nynetenth  yeare  of  the  Quen’s 
raigne  he  did  sell  vnto  the  said  Thomas  Caltrope  and  Michaell  Stacye  fortye  colored  brod  clothes,  and 
recyved  money  at  dyulse  tymes,  so  as  ther  remayneth  dewe  unto  him  the  some  of  eight  and  thirtye  poundes 
And  Henrye  Yyntener  sayeth  that  he  did  sell  for  the  CompP8  vse  dyulse  brod  colored  clothes,  &  ther 
remayneth  dewe  one  hundreth  and  fyve  pounds.  And  the  said  Defdts  sayen  that  they  are  well  contented  yf 
Complt  will  put  in  good  suertye  to  paye  their  seul  all  debts  wth  reasonable  costs  and  will  staye  their  suyts  ; 
otherwise  by  protracte  of  tyme  their  wittnesses  or  the  Compl*  maye  dye  ;  and  then  they  shalbe  w^out 
remedye.  Pstitit  Saci9  in  Cur.  xxvij0  Aprilis  A0  xxx°  Re.  Suffolk  Bills  temp.  Q.  Eliz.  No.  89. 

Henry  Seckford,  afterwards  Sir  Henry,  was  brother  to  Sir  Thomas  Seckford,  Master  of 
Requests  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  the  munificent  founder  of  the  Woodbridge  charities  which  bear  his  name. 

M 


82 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Brotone.  of  Colchester. 


Browne  of 


John  Browne  of  Witham  in  com.  Essex  ;  Will  Arch.  Colchester,  9  March  1562  ;  probate  19  April1 
1563  ;  names  Elizabeth  Raven,  his  daughter,  and  Margery,  Anne,  Joan  and  Anne,  the  four  daughters 
of  Henry  Browne  his  son. 


Thomas  Browne,  de¬ 
visee  of  his  brother, 
John  Browne,  1562. 


Margaret, =Henry  Browne  of  Edwardston,=f=Agnes  Browne,  Elizabeth  Browne,=j=John  Raven, 


living  co.  Suff.,  and  after  of  Milton  in  the  mother  of 

1596,  2nd  Prittlewell,  co.  Essex,  yeoman.  Anne  Win throp, 
wife.  Will  P.C.C.  2  Cobham,  23  June,  died  17  Dec.  A0 

35  Eliz.  ;  prob1  27  Jan.  1596  ;  1590. AdamWin- 

ob.  set.  76  ;  bur.  in  Prittlewell  throp  s  Diary. 
Church ;  lands  in  Polsted,  Box 
ford,  Edwardston,  &c. 


living  1596,  styled 
“  my  dau1'  Raven  ”  in 
her  father’s  will. 


Eliz.,  devisee 
John  Browne. 
1562. 


35 

of 


Thomas  Browne.  = 
His  children  li¬ 
ving  1596  ;  eld¬ 
est  son,  1562. 


Elizabeth,  de¬ 
visee  of  John 
Browne,  1562. 


Jeremy  Raven,  my  coseu,  minis¬ 
ter  of  God’s  Word.”  Adam  Win¬ 
throp's  JJiary. 


“.  .  .  Browne,  my  cosen  and  his 
wifecame  to  Groton,  7  Aug.  1602.” 
Adam  Winthrop's  Diary . 


Adam  Win-= 
throp  of  Gro¬ 
ton.  co.  Suff., 
Esq.  Exor  to 
HenryBrowne 
1596,  whom  he 
names  in  his 
well-known 
Diary  ;  mar¬ 
ried  20  Feb, 
1579. 


l - 

=Anne,  da. 
andcoh.35 
Eliz.,  de¬ 
visee  with 
her  sister, 
Ann  Spel¬ 
ling,  in  her 
father’s 
will. 


L 


William  Hilles,=fJoan  Browne, 


of  Holton,  co. 
Suff.,  yeoman  ; 
Will  Arch.  Suff. 
2  Aug.  39  Eliz.  ; 
proU  20  Sept. 
1597  ;  named 
1597  in  Adam 
Winthrop's 
Diary.  See 
Hilles. 


'•v 


da.  and  coll, 
named  35 
Eliz.  in  her 
father’s  will. 
HerWillArch. 
Suff.  is  dated 
5  Sept.  1597  ; 
prob1  20  Dec. 
1597. 


John  Snelling,  of= 
Boxford,  clothier, 
cousin  to  Wm. 
Ames,  the  Puri¬ 
tan  Divine  ;  Will 
P.C.C.  48  Meade, 
26  Jany  1617. 
His  2d  wife  was 
Judith  Choppin, 
Inq.  p.m.  15  Jas. 


=Anne  Browne, 
da.  and  coll, 
Anne,  d.  of 
Browne  of  Ed - 
wardstone  in 
com.  Suff. 
—John  Snel- 
linq. — Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


Speade, 
1st  hus¬ 
band. 


=j=Margerie  Browne, =  Roger  Wes¬ 
ton,  Vicar  of 
Wormingford 
co,  Essex,  2d 
husbd,  died  2 
Dec.  1608  ; 
Will,  Lond. 
Consist.  5  Feb, 
1605  ;  cousin 
Dr  Duke  to  be 
executor. 


da.  and  coh.,  wife 
of  Mr  Weston, 
35  Eliz.,  named  in 
will  of  John  Snel¬ 
ling,  1617  ;  no 
issue  by  2nd  mar. ; 
dead  apparently 
in  1608. 


i 


William  Hilles, ^Elizabeth  Joan  Hilles, 

of  Holton  Hall,  Gibson,  mar.  3  Oct. 

where  he  took  mar.  15  1599,toAdam 

up  his  abode,  Jan.  1600.  Winthrop, 

30  Sep.  1602,  afterwards  of 

Adam  Win-  Bandon  in 

throp’s  Diary.  Ireland. 


Elizabeth 
Hilles,  li¬ 
ving  1603. 
Winthrop  c. 
Winthrop, 
Jas  I.  B.  & 
A. 


- 1 


John  Duke  of  Col  Chester, =p  A  line  Snelling,  da. 


Docter  of  Pliyssick.  W  ill 
P.C.C.  53  Ridley,  30  April 
1 629.  Lands  in  Suffolk  & 
Essex  ;  bequest  to  cousin 
“MrJohu Winthrop.”  See 
Diary. 


and  sole  heiress  by 
this  marriage  ; 
mar.  1 1  Nov.  1596. 
She  proved  husbds 
will  27  June  1629. 


John  Speade,  35 
Eliz.  about  to 
marry  A"  1604. 
See  Diary  for 
more  of  the 
Speades. 


BenjaminSpeade 
35  Eliz. 

Anne  Speade, 
mar.8  April  1607 
to  Tho8  Polley. 
Diary. 


Mary  Duke,  eldest 
dau.  and  coheir, 
mar.  before  1629, 
Laurence  Wright, 
Dr  of  Phisicke. 


Elizabeth  Duke,  2d= 
dau.  and  coh.  1629, 
1st  wife  :  already 
married  and  had 
issue  A°  1634. 


Thomas  Cooke  of  Peb-= 
marsh,  co.  Essex,  Esq.  ; 
in  Essex Visitn  1634;  Will 
P.C.C.  128  Cottle,  Jan. 
1679  ;  prob.  4  Nov.  1682, 


-Judith,  2d  wife, 
dau.  of  Oliver  St. 
John  of  Keyshoe, 
co.  Bedford,  Esq. 
Mora  nt. 


Anne  Duke,  3d  dau. 
and  coh.,  devisee  of 
her  grandfather  Snel¬ 
ling  1617  ;  dead, 
probably,  in  1629. 


Judeth  Duke,  devisee  of  her 
grandfatherSnelling  161 7, &  of 
her  fatherl629;  mar.  Rob1  Pay- 
nell  of  Belaugh,  co.  Norff.  Esq. 
and  ob.  1652.  =p 

A 


John  Duke,  ob.  before 
his  father  made  his 
Will. 


Elizabeth  Cooke,  only  child  named  in  her=j=Anthony  Parsons,  Esq.  of  the  Visita- 
father’s  Will.  She  made  Will  as  Eliza-  |  tion  family  of  Parsons  of  co.  Oxon. 


beth  Parsons  P.C.C.  23  Cottle,  Aug. 
1680  ;  prob.  4  Feb.  1681. 


See  ped.  Harl.  MS.  1480.  He  had 
also  issue  by  a  former  wife. 


Grace.  Essex 

Visitation, 

1634. 


— I 

Eight  other 

children. 

Morant. 


Duke  Parsons,  1680. 


John  Parsons,  1680. 


Antonia,  1680. 


“Anne,  late  wife  of  John  Duke  of  Colchester  in  Essex,  M.D.,  1649  ;  he  died  there  May  16,  1629  ;  she  was  Dr  and  Heiress 
of  John  Snelling  of  Boxford  in  Suff.  Gent.  ;  they  had  issue,  Mary  married  to  Laurence  Wright  of  London,  M.D.  ;  Eliz.  to  Thomas 
Cock  of  Pebmarsh  in  Essex,  Esq.  ;  and  Judith  to  Rob.  Paynell  of  Belaugh  in  Norfolk,  Esq.  ;  Anna  their  third  daughter  1647  ; 
Judith  Paynell  1652  ;  Robert  Paynell  Esq.,  Couucellor  at  Law,  1658.” 

Akms.  Duke  impales  Snelling  ;  Gules,  three  eagles’  heads  erased  Argent  ;  a  chief  indented  Ermine. 

Inscription  in  the  chancel  of  St.  John’s,  Maddermarket,  Norwich.  Blomefield’s  Norfolk,  vol.  iv.,  p.  295. 


jfoncs  of  Jlustrcti. 


Will  of  ®Ijomas  jfones,  1029. 

Thomas  Fones  citizen  and  apothecary  of  London  14  April  1629.  Having  already  by  acts 
executed  in  my  life  time  disposed  of  the  greater  part  of  my  personal  estate  to  and  among  my 
children  and  to  the  use  and  benefit  of  my  wife  I  do  hereby  commit  the  tuition,  education,  care 
and  tutelage  of  my  son  Samuel  Fones  during  his  minority  unto  his  uncle  John  Wynthrop  of  Groton 
in  the  County  of  Suffolk  Esqr,  John  White  of  the  Middle  Temple  London,  Esqr  and  James 

Thurlby  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  and  do  earnestly  desire  these  my  loving  friends  to  have  a 

special  care  that  he  be  brought  up  in  learning  and  in  the  fear  of  God  and  knowledge  of  his 
ways  ;  and  do  charge  and  require  my  son,  upon  my  blessing,,  to  subject  himself  unto  them  and 
to  be  ruled  by  them  in  all  things.  And  the  tuition  and  education  of  my  daughters  Elizabeth 
and  Martha  I  do  commit  unto  my  said  loving  brother  John  Wynthropp  until  they  shall  be 
married  or  attain  their  full  age  of  one  and  twenty  years.  The  tuition  of  my  youngest  daughter 
Mary  I  commit  to  my  loving  wife  her  mother.  My  loving  wife  Priscilla  Fones  and  my  loving 
brother  John  Wynthropp  to  be  executors,  Ac.  Witnesses  :  John  Smith,  Ri.  Fitch,  Tho:  Smith. 
Probate  29  April  1629.  P.C.C.  28  Ridley. 

For  frequent  references  to  Thomas  Fones  and  members  of  his  family,  see  “Life  and  Letters 

of  John  Winthrop,”  vol.  I.,  and  “  Winthrop  Papers,”  parts  III.  and  IV. 


Inquisition  on  tlje  tumtlj  of  ®Ijontas  jfones,  1629, 

Inquisico  Indentat9  capt3  apud  le  Guildhall  ciuitat3  London  duodecimo  die  Octobris  Anno 
regni  dni  nri  Caroli  dei  gra  Angt  Scotie  ffraunc  et  Hibnie  Regis  Ac.  quinto  coram  Rico  Deane 
milit  Maiore  Escaetor  ciuitatis  London  ....  post  mortem  Thome  ffones  defunct  sacramen 
Roberti  Sandon  ....  pbo?  et  legaliu  liomin,  qui  dicunt  qd  Samuell  Brond  et  Beniaminus  Brond 

M2 


84 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


existen  seit  in  dominico  suo  de  Manerio  <fe  Capital  messuag  vocat  Nusteed  ais  Nusteed  Hall 
scituat  in  vii  de  Polsteed  &  Boxford  in  Com  Suff:  et  de  et  in  duat>3  pceft  prati  vocat  Aueley 

meadowes  in  Polsteed  f?d  et  Assington  in  dco  com  SufF:  jid  Samuel  Brond  et  Beniam9  Brond 

p  Indentur  sua  geren  dat  vicesimo  die  Octobris  Anno  regni  Jacobi  nup  Begis  Angl  decimo 
sexto  vendiderunt  fffat  Thome  ffones  et  Johi  Wynthrop  de  Groton  in  dco  Com  Suff:  Ar.  et 

heredibj  impprn  jid  MaSer,  Capital  messuag  et  fid  claus9  vocat  Aueley  meadows . Et  sic 

inde  seit9  jffat9  Thoms  ffones  obijt  et  jffat  Johes  Wynthrop  supvixit  et  in  plena  vita  apud  Groton 
fid  adhuc  existit  et  adhuc  est  inde  seitus  in  dmico  suo  vt  de  feod.  Et  Jurator9  p’di  vlterius 
dicunt  qd  pdcus  Thomas  ffones  die  et  tempore  obitus  sui  fuit  seitus  de  duob3  messuag  cu 
ptin  scituat  in  quodam  vico  vocat  the  Old  Bayly  in  Suburb  ciuitatis  London  quo?  vnu  iacet 
in  pochia  Sctl  Martini  prope  Ludgate,  in  occupacone  Bici  Alley  et  alteriu9  iacet  in  parochia 
S':ti  Sepulcheri  London  et  fuit  in  occupacone  fifat  Thomse  ffones  tempore  mortis  eius.  Et  vlterius 
Jur  fid  die  qd  fidcin  messuag  in  pochia  sci  Martine  ppe  Ludgate  tehetr  de  dho  Rege  in  capite 
p  seruitm  vicesime  ptis  vnius  feodi  milit  .  .  .  .  Et  quod  fid  Maner,  Capital  messuag  et  due 

pcell  terra?  vocat  Aueley  meadowes  tenebantr  de  dc5  dho  Rege  vt  de  Hundredo  suo  de  Babargh 
in  Com  Suff:  in  libo  et  c5i  soccagio  .  .  .  .  Et  qd  fifat  Thoms  ffones  obijt  xvto  die  Aprilis  vltimo 
fiterito  apud  London  et  qd  Samuel  ffones  tempore  mortis  sue  fuit  filius  &  heres  ppinquior  et 
qd  pdcus  Samuell  ffones  decimo  die  ffebruarij  vltimo  ante  diem  eapeois  huius  Inquisicois  fuit 

etatis  duodecim  annor.9  Inq.  p.  m.  5  Car.  pl  2,  No.  15 


Mill  of  tffljomas  Jmtcs,  1678. 

Thomas  Fones  of  Ipswich,  Doctor  of  Phisick,  being  sicke  in  body  but  of  perfect  mind  and 
memory,  doe  make  my  last  will  in  manner  and  forme  followeing.  Impris  I  give  vnto  my  daughter 
Mary  one  two  and  thirtieth  part  of  the  ship  called  the  Smirna  Merchant,  lately  built  at  Ipswich. 

Item  I  give  vnto  my  daughter  Catherine  one  two  and  thirtieth  part  of  the  shipp  called  the 

Providence.  I  give  unto  my  daughter  Sarah  one  sixteenth  part  of  the  shipp  called  the  Catherine. 
My  executrix  shall  sell  my  two  and  thirtieth  part  of  the  shipp  Nathaniel  of  Ipswich,  and  the 

money  shall  be  equally  shared  betweene  my  said  daughters  Catherine  and  Sarah.  My  goods 

shall  be  sold  and  the  money  shared  amongst  my  said  three  daughters,  at  their  severall  ages  of 
one  and  twenty  years  or  days  of  marriage,  which  shall  first  happen.  My  messuage  in  Mendlesham 
to  be  sold  and  the  money  equally  shared  amongst  my  said  three  children.  In  case  my  wife 
should  happen  to  marry  againe,  before  all  my  said  daughters  are  marryed,  I  will  said  wife  shall 
enter  into  a  bond  with  security  in  eight  hundred  pounds  vnto  Mr  Lawrence  Stistead  and  my  two 
brothers  for  the  faithfull  pformance  of  this  my  will.  Item  I  doe  nominate  Mary  my  loveing 
wife  to  be  sole  executrix  and  my  loveing  brothers,  John  ffones  and  Barnaby  ffones,  and  Mr 
Lawrence  Stistcd  to  be  trustees.  Item  I  doe  give  vnto  my  said  daughters  and  their  heires  all 
my  lands,  tenements  and  ffinisses  whatsoever,  immediately  after  the  decease  of  my  said  wife, 
payeing  out  the  same  to  my  brothers  John  and  Barnaby  fifty  pounds  apeice,  to  my  sister  Ann 
Fones  twenty  pounds,  and  to  my  sister  Mary  Fones  twenty  pounds,  and  to  my  said  friend  Mr 


FONES  OF  NUSTEED. 


85 


Lawrence  Stisted  tenn  pounds.  I  have  sett  my  hand  and  seale  this  six  and  twentieth  day 
of  ffebruary  1678.  Probatum  decimo  quarto  die  Novembris  1679,  Juramento  Marise  Fones, 
llelictse,  &c. 

Vicesimo  secundo  die  Aug1*  1685  em*  com0  Johanni  Smith  curatori  Marim  et  Sarae  hones 
filijs  Thomse  ffones  nup  de  Gipwico  in  Com9  Suff:  deff'  ad  administrand  bona  Ac.  non  plene 
administrata  p  Mariam  ffones  Relictam,  jam  etiam  demortuam,  durante  minori  setate  et  in  solum 
beneficium  Marise  et  Sarae  ffones  minorum  pdict.  P.C.C.  141  King 


^ministration  of  Catljrrinr  fonts,  1680* 

Sept.  23  1680.  Adco  bonor  Catherinso  ffones  nup  de  Gippo  inupte  def1  comissa  fuit  . 
ffones  matri  nrali  et  ltime.  Arch  Suff 


^ministration  of  Jilarn  fonts,  1685. 

Aug.  13  1685.  Adco  bonoru9  Marise  ffones  nup  de  Gippo  vid  duran  minori  etate  et  in 
vsum  Marise  et  Sarse  ffones  filiarum,  comissa  fuit  Jolii  Smith  Mariti  Sarse  Smith  als  Dunk  on 
materterse  gardian  Admin.  Arch.  Suff 


Mill  of  Jianmrl  fonts,  1695. 

Samuel  ffones  of  East  Bergliolt  co.  Suffolk,  clerk,  28  Aug  1693.  To  Mary  my  wife  rents 
Ac.  of  my  farme  in  Polsted  and  Assington.  Certain  lands  to  be  sold  by  executors.  To  my 
daughter  Mary  ffones  four  hundred  pounds.  To  Mary  ffones,  Sarah  tlones  and  Alice  ffones 
daughters  of  my  son  Samuel  ffones  at  their  ages  of  one  and  twenty  years.  To  Mary  ffones  and 
Sarah  ffones,  daughters  of  my  son  Thomas  ffones.  Mary  my  wife  and  Mary  my  daughter  to  be 
executrixes.  Probat.  3  Nov.  1693,  executoribus,  Comiss  1  Dec.  1703  Alice  Haw  als  ffones  uxori 
Edward  Haw  et  nepte  ex  filio  defunct  et  legatarise  in  eodem  testamento. 

Arch,  Suff.  “  Sayer,”  fo.  467. 


86 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


jToites  of  Cornwall. 

The  ancient  document,  endorsed  “  Thos  Fones  his  pedigre  ’  which  is  here  given  verbatim,  was  found  amongst  the  papers 
of  Governor  John  Winthrop.  It  is  evidently  based  upon  the  Fones  pedigree  in  the  Visitation  of  Cornwall, 
1620,  with  which  it  is  now  collated  ( Harl .  MS.  1162).  It  appears  to  have  been  compiled  in  or  about  1629. 
In  the  margin  is  a  sketch  of  the  Fones  shield -two  eagles  displayed  in  chief,  with  a  mullet  in  base.  Opposite 
the  first  marriage  of  Thomas  Fones  is  a  rough  tricking  of  Fones  impaling  Winthrop : — a  lion  rampant  superposed 
upon  three  chevrons. 


IF*n  ffownes  of  Saxbie  Esq=f=.  .  .  da:  of  Sr  Robt  Hyelston  Kl- 
I  Hyelton.  Harl.  MS.  1162. 


Georg  ffownes  of  Saxbie  Esq= j=.  .  .  da.  of  ..  .  Malbanck  of  Malpas. 

I  Malbant.  Harl  MS.  1162. 


IF™  ffownes  al's  ffones  of  Saxbie.=r.  .  .  da:  of  Telham  of  Telham. 

I 

i - 1 

John  ffownes  als  ffones  of  Saxbie.=f=.  .  .  da:  to  Bradley  of  Bedham. 


John  ffownes  of  Saxbie .=f=.  .  .  da:  of  Lawell  of  Lawell. 

j  Lewell.  Harl.  MS.  1162. 

i - 1 - 1 - 1 - ' - ; - 1 - 7 

Thomas  S  son.  Ilumfrey  4  son.  Robert  1  son.  John  ffownes  of  Bedford  in  ye  parish  o/=p  Willm.  6  son.  Nicholas  5  son. 

Bransgrove  in  com  Wigorn  2  son. 


Will'm.  1  son  of  Bristoll.  Rich:  ffownes  al’s  ffones  of=j=Juane  da:  of  .  .  .  Tindall  of  ye  Isle  Thomas  2  sonne  &  heire=f=.  .  .  . 
S.P.  Bristoll.  3  son.  of  Axham  in  com.  Lincoln.  to  his  father. 


\  r 


John  1  son.  Prudence da.of  John-j-Thomas  ffownes  al's=^Joane  da. of  Walter  Annda:of  Adam  Win-^Thornas  Pones-j-Priscilla  da. 


Nichols  of  Davcstock 
Georg 2 son.  in  Devon  :  1  wife. 


Richard  3 
son. 


ffones  of  Plymouth 
lyveing  1620:  4  son. 


Heale  of  Knaton  in  throp  Esqof  Groton  in 
Devon :  2  wife.  com.  Suff  :  1  wife. 


r 


- r  i  n - 1 - 1  i 

Prudence.  Joane.  Richard  1  son  Sampson,  2  son.  Thomas  4  Elizb.  4  da. 

—  cet.18.  A»  1620.  —  son.  — 

Mary.  John  3  son.  Susan  5  da. 


Citizen  <1-  Apo- 
thecai-y  of Lon- 
donlOJS:  dyed 
the  15  of Aprill 
1629. 


of  John  Bur¬ 
gess  Dr  of 
Divinity  :  2 
wife. 


~r 


lien:  XV inthr op. =  Elizabeth.  1.  Martha.  2. 


- 1 - I - 

Samuel  Fones  sonne  <£■  hr  to  his  father :  Mary  Fones.  Priscilla,  obijt. 

cet  12  ao  16 2S. 


FONES  OF  NUSTEED 


87 


jfones  of  |§>uffolft. 


Anne,  dau.of  Adam= 
Winthrop  of  Gro¬ 
ton,  co.  Suffolk,  and 
sister  of  Gov.  J  ohn 
Winthropof  Mass., 
b.  16  Jan.  1585  ; 
in.  25  Feb.  1604  ; 
d.  16  May  1619  ; 
bur.  in  St.  Sepul¬ 
chre’s  Ch.  London. 

1  st  wif e. 


Thomas  Fones,  son  of  Tho-: 
mas  Fones  of  Bedford  in 
Bromsgrove,  co.  Worces¬ 
ter  (of  a  junior  branch  of 
Saxby,  co.  Devon),  Apo¬ 
thecary  in  London  at  the 
sign  of  the  Three  Fawns 
in  the  Old  Bayley  ;  d.  15 
April  1629  ;  Will  P.C.C. 
28  Ridley  14  Apr.  1629. 
Inq.  p.m.  5  Car.  Lord  of 
Nusteed  Hall  in  Polsted, 
co.  Suff. 


Priscilla,  da.  of  John  Burgess, =f=Bezaleel  Sherman — Henry  Painter  of  Exeter, 


D.D.,  Rector  of  Sutton  Cold¬ 
field,  co.  Warwick,  whose  Will 
P.C.C.  105  Sadler,  is  dated  12 
Sept.  1634  ;  m.  28  Aug.  1621, 
2d  wife.  S eeLif'eand  Letters  of 
John  Winthrop  for  letters  of 
hers. 


of  Ipswich,  grocer. 
1st  husband  of 
Priscilla  Burgess, 
made  Will  P.C.C. 
125  Meade,  7  Oct. 
1618. 


one  of  the  Westminster 
divines,  3d  husband  of 
Priscilla  Burgess !  See  let¬ 
ters  of  his  in  5  Mass.  Hist. 
Coll.,  i. 


Mary  Fones, youngest 
dau.,  d.  unm.  1631, 
See  5  Mass.Hist.Coll. 
vol.  i,  p.  71. 


UrsulaSherman, betrothed  toForth 
Winthrop,  who  d.  before  marriage. 
See  Lifed  Leltersof  John  Winthrop 
for  her  letter  at  this  time. 


John  Sherman,  devi¬ 
see  with  his  sister  of 
their  grandfather 
Burgess  in  1634. 


Samuel  Fones  of= 
East  Bergliolt,  co 
Suffolk, clerk, s.&  h. 
aged  11  A0  1629. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.  28 
Aug.  1693;  Prob*^ 
Nov.  ;  Admon.  1 
Nov.  1703,  to  Alice 
Haw  al’s  Fones. 
Lands  in  Polsted  & 
Assington. 


Mary,  da.  of 
Eleazar  Dunkon 
of  Harleston, 
Norff.,  draper, 
who  made  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Nor.  3 
May  1673  ;  Exx 
i  with  her  dau. 
Mary  Fones  to 
her  husband. 


H  enry  Winthrop1 
2d  son  of  Gov. 
John  Winthrop, 
m.25April,1629, 
1st  husband  ;  d. 
2d  July  1630, 
leaving  an  only 
child,  Martha 
Winthrop.  See 
Winthrop  Ped. 


Elizabeth  Fones, ^Robert^pWilliam 


eldest  dau., came 
to  New  England 
in  1631  after 
death  of  first 
husband.  Living 
1652,  and  pro¬ 
bably  in  1674. 
See  2  Mass.  Hist. 
Proc.  vi. 


Feake 
of  Wat¬ 
ertown 
Mass., 
2d  hus¬ 
band. 


Hallet  of 
Long  Is¬ 
land, 
N.Y.,  3d 
husband. 


Martha  Fones,  2  dau.,m.  at  Gro¬ 
ton,  Suffolk,  8  Feb.  1630,  John 
Winthrop,  afterward  Gov.  of 
Conn,  and  eld.  son  of  Gov.  John 
Winthrop  of  Mass.  She  d.  in 
Ipswich,  Mass.  1634,  s.p.  He 
m  2d  Elizabeth,  da.  of  Edmund 
Reade  of  Wickford,  co,  Essex, 
by  whom  he  left  a  numerous 
family.  See  Winthrop  Ped. 


Ni/ 


Martha  Johanna  Winthrop,  only  child,  born  at  Groton, =r Thomas  Lyon  of  Stamford,  Connecticut 


Suffolk,  9  May  1630 
had  two  children  but 


married  1647  ;  died  circa  1650 
only  one  survived  her. 


survived  his  first,  wife,  and  left  a  number 
of  children  by  a  second  marriage. 


Mary  Lyon,  born  1649  ;  married  1st  Joseph  Stedwell 
N.Y.  She  was  living  in  1698. 


of  Rye,  N.Y.,  and  2d  John  Willson  of  Bedford, 


Thomas  F  ones  of  Ipswich,  Dr= 
of  Phy  sick,  made  Will  P.C.C. 
141  King  26  Feb.  1678;  Pro¬ 
bate  14  Nov.  same  year;  ob. 
vita  patris,  wife  executrix  ; 
estate  finally  administered 
by  Jn°  Smith  22  Aug.  1685. 


:Mary,  executrix  to  her 
husband  1679  ;  ob. 
1685  ;  Admon.  Arch. 
Suff.  13  Ang.  1685  to 
“  Johi  Smith  marito 
Sarie  Smith  al’s  Dunkon 
mater  tene.” 


Mary  Fones 
one  of  her 
father’s 
executors, 
1693. 


Barnaby 
Fones  de¬ 
visee  of 
his  grand¬ 
father 
Dunkon. 
1673. 


- 1 - 

Anne  Fones 
dvisee  of 
her  grand¬ 
father  Dun¬ 
kon,  1673. 


Samuel  Fones=f , 
devisee  of  his 
brother  Thos. 
Fones,  1693, 
but  dead  in 
1703. 


— I 
John 
Fones, 
living 
1685. 


Katherine  Fones,  devisee  of 
her  father  1678;  of  Ipswich, 
1 680;  Admon.  Arch.  Suff.  23 
Sept.  1680  to  her  mother. 


Mary  Fones,  Sarah  Fones,  Mary  Fones,  Sarah  Fones,  Alice  Fones.  under  age  1693; 

living  1678  ;  living  1678  ;  living  A0  living  A0  wife  of  Edward  Haw,  1703, 

under  age  A°  under  age  A°  1693.  1693.  when  she  administered  her 

1685.  1685.  grandfather’s  estate. 


For  letters  of  Mrs.  Thomas  Lyon  and  members  of  her  family  see  “  Proceedings  of  the  Massachusetts  Historical 
Society,”  Second  Series,  Vol.  vi.,  pp.  2-20. 


#ostltn  of 


<@vo  ton. 


Incorporation  of  ®orfor&  CHrantntar  Reboot,  1592, 

Patent  Roll ,  38  Elizabeth  Part  12. 

Regina  omib3  ad  quos  &c.  saltm.  Cum  dilci  subdicti  nri  Jobes  Snelling  de  Boxford  in  corn 
Snff  A  Philippus  Gosbling  [sic]  de  Groton  in  eodem  com  clothiers  pio  zelo  moti  ppter  surham  erga 
priam  charitatem  &  ad  bonas  Iras  pmouend9  singulare  studiu  A  pcipue  ad  dei  optimi  maximi  gloriam. 

A  Juuentutis  eardem  villarf  A  ville  de  Edwardstone  infra  pdict  com  Suff  instruccoem  &  erudicoem 

quam  maxime  cupiunt  &  desiderant  qd  infra  ville  de  Boxford  fidict  vna  libra  Schola  gramaticalis 
funderet1  &  eriglet1  A  impphi  pmaneret.  Ac  ea  intencoe  vt  sumptus  &  ona  dee  Schole  melius  A 
decentius  supportari  valeant  A  possint  ijdem  Jobes  Snelling  &  Philippus  Goshlinge  ex  intimo  eor 
affectu  ad  ppositum  A  vsum  jidict  deder  A  concesser  dilco  subdito  nro  Jobi  Gurdon  de  Assington 
in  eodem  com  Suff  Armig;  o  A  quibusdam  alijs  vnii  mesuagm  siue  ten  cum  vno  gardino  &  horto 
eidem  ptinen  &  adiacen  cum  omibj  &  singulis  suis  ptiii  iacen  A  existen  in  Boxford  jidict  sicut 
p  chartam  inde  sic  p  fffatos  Jobem  Snelling  A  Philippum  Gosbling  vt  f]fertr  fact  plenius  apparet. 
Sciatis  qd  nos  p  ea  cura  quam  de  Juuentute  regni  nri  pie  A  libalit  instituend  singularem  hem9 
proqj  suraa  benevolencia  qua  bonas  Iras  ad  pcipiend  colendamqj  virtutem  A  religionem  plurium 
adiuuantes  ac  optima?  artiu  studia  studiososq5  psequinff  bine  pie  peticoT  graciose  annuentes  de 
gra  lira  spiali  ac  ex  eta  sciencia  &  mero  motu  nris  ,p  nob  hered  and  successoribj  nris  volum9 
concedim9  A  ordinam9  qd  de  ce'to  imppm  sit  A  erit  vna  liba  Schola  gramaticai  in  Boxford  |?dict  * 
p  educac  institucoe  &  instruccoe  pueror  A  Juuenn  in  gramatica  ppetuis  futur9  temporil* 
duratur  quo  erit  &  vocabitr  liba  Schola  gramaticalis  Regine  Elizabeth  in  Boxford.  Ac  Scholam 
illam  p  nocii  libo  Schole  gramaticai9  Regine  Elizabeth  in  Boxford  erigim9  cream9  fundam9  &  stabilim9 
firmit  p  psentes.  Et  qd  Schola  ilia  de  ceto  sit  erit  aut  esse  possit  de  vno  magro  sen  Pedagogo 

A  de  vno  Subpedagogo  seu  liipodidasculo  ac  pueris  A  Juuenibj  ibm  p  eos  edocend9  sedm  ordinacoes 

in  hijs  psentibj  iuferius  declarat.  Et  vt  intenco  ac  ppositum  hoc  pm  meliorem  firmioremqj 
sorciatr  efftih  Atqj  vt  bona  terr9  ten9  reddit9  reucues  A  at  hereditamen  ad  sustentacoem  Schole 
p’dte  ac  ludmagri  A  Subpelagogi  posthac  concedend  assignand  &  destinand  melius  gubnentr 


GOSTLIN  OF  GROTON. 


89 


tractentr  regantr  <fc  insinuant'  p  ppetua  continuacoe  eiusdem  volum9  concedim9  &  ordinam9  p  nos 
lieredibj  &  successoribj  nrls  p  psentes  qd  de  ceto  sunt  &  erunt  imppm  triginta  septem  discret9 
&  pbi  hoics  iuxta  ordinat  in  hiis  iris  nris  patentibj  content  &  declarat  noland9  eligend9  & 
assignand9  qui  erunt  &■  vocabuntr  Gubnatores  bonor  possessionu  &  reuenconu  libe  Schole  gramaticalis 
Regine  Elizabeth  in  Boxford.  Et  ad  munus  &  offic  pdict  bene  &  fidelitl  exercend  &  occupant! 

eligin9  noiamin9  assignauim9  &  constituim9  ac  p  psentes  eligim9  &  constituim9  diicos  nob  Wiiim 
Waldegrave  Senior  militem,  Wiiim  Waldegrave  Junior  militem,  Edwardum  Coke  Armigum  Attornat9 
nrin  genal,  Johem  Payton  Armigum,  Thomam  Clopton  Armig'um,  Jobem  Gurdon  Armig’um,  Thomam 
Waldegrave  senior  Aimig’um,  Thomam  Appleton  Armigum,  Thomam  Kempe  Armig’um;  Stephaun 
Piend  Armig’um,  Wiiim  Clopton  Armigum  A  Bramptoun  Gurdon  Armig'um,  Thomam  Waldegrave 
Junior,  Edwardum  Waldegrave,  Isachum  Appleton,  Johem  Wintroppe,  Adamii  Wintroppe,  A  Johem 
Hanham,  Genosos,  Johem  Knewstubb,  Thomam  Loveii,  Henr9  Sand^  <fc  Thomam  Nicholson,  Ciicos, 
Wiiim  Doggett  mercatorem,  Johem  Brand  Senior  Clothier,  Henr9  Browne,  Thomam  Alston,  Johem 
Plampin  &  Thomam  Lappache  yeomen,  Johem  Snelling,  Philippum  Goshling,  Lodouicum  Kedbey, 
Wiiim  Brand  Senior,  Johem  Doggett,  Johem  Jerrold,  Johem  Bond  &  Simonem  Laughlin  Clothiers 
&  Johem  Hopper  yeoman  fore  &  esse  primos  &  modernos  Gubnatores  bonor  possessionu  & 

reuenconu  dee  libe  Schole  Regine  Elizabeth  in  Boxford ;  continuand  in  eodem  Officio  duran9  vitis 
suis  natural.  Et  vltius  concedim9  &  ordinam9  qd  ijdem  Gubnatores  &  successores  sui  de  cefo 
imppm  sint  &  erunt  vnu  corpus  corporat  &  politicum  p  idem  noen  Gubnator  bonor  possessionu 
&  reuenconu  libe  Schole  gramatical  Regine  Elizabeth  in  Boxford  in  Com  Suff  ppetius  futur 

temporibj  vocabuntr.  Et  qd  p  idem  noen  sint  &  erunt  psone  hiles  apt  &  in  lege  capao  ad 

pquirend9  recipiend9  habend9  &  possidend9  tarn  bona  &  catali  qfh  maner  terr  ten  prat  pasc 

pastur  reddit  rencoes  &  ai  hereditamen  quecumqj  sibi  &  successor^  suis  impprii  .  .  .  &  p  nob 
heredibj  &  successoribj  nris  p  psentes  concedim9  pfat  Gubnator  bonor  possessionu  &  reuenconu 
libe  Schole  Regine  Elizabeth  in  Boxford  &  successoribj  suis  qd  ipi  de  cePo  imppm  heant  coe 
sigillum  ad  negocia  sua  &  quamlt  siue  aliqm  inde  parcel!  tangen9  sen  concnen9  d3serintr.  Et  qd 
j^dict  Gubnator  &  successores  sui  .  .  .  piitare  &  implitari  psequi  defendere  &  responderi  possint 
valeant  in  omibj  &  singulis  causis  querelis  sect  &  accoibj  quibuscumqj  .  .  .  coram  quibuscumqj 
Judicibj  &  Justiciar  inP  hoc  reginu  Anglie.  Et  volum9  ac  p  psentes  concedim9  .  .  .  qd  quandocumqj 
contiger  aliquem  vel  aliquos  Pdcor  modernor,  Gubnator  pantea  in  psentibj  menconat  obire  vel 

ab  officio  sua  amoueri  qd  tunc  &  totiens  bene  liceat  &  licebit  reliquis  dcor  Gubnator  ad  tunc 
supuiueh  vel  maiori  parti  eordem  aliam  id  on  earn  psonam  vel  alias  idoneas  psonas  timentes  deum 
ac  boni  nois  &  fame  integr  ac  existen  plene  etaP  viginti  &  vnius  annorf  in  locum  siue  locos 

sic  morientis  vel  amoti  elig*e  &  noiare.  Et  hoc  lociens  quociens  casus  sic  accidiP.  Et  vltius 

dedim9  &  concessim9  Pfat  Gubnator  plenam  potestatem  appunctuand  &  eligend  .  .  .  vnu  honestum 
liPat  &  discret  virum  existen  in  artibj  magrfh  ad  minus  fore  Pedagogum  libe  Schole  gramaticai 
pdict9  ac  vnu  pbum  &  idoneum  virum  fore  Subpedagogum  eiusdem  Schole  ...  Ac  p  aliqua  causa 
rofiabili  amouere  depriuare  &  a  loco  ac  offic  suis  pdict  expellere.  Et  qd  dci  Gubnator  facie 

ordinare  &  constituere  possint  bona,  idonea  &  salubr  statut  tangen  eleccoem  noiacoem  depriuacoem 
direccoem  &  gubnacoem  Pedagogi  Subpedagogi  &  Scholastico?  in  Schola  pdea  existen5,  acceiam 
gubnacoem  &  deposicoem  bonor  catallor  possessionu  reuenconu  eiusdem  Schole  ac  omia  alia 
necessaria.  Concedim0  pfac  Gubnator  spalem  &  licitam  auctoritatem  hend  pquirend  &  possidend 
eis  &  eor  successoribj  ad  sustentacoem  Schole,  maner  messuag  terr  ten  Rector  decimas  & 
hereditamen  quecumqj  dumodo  eadem  in  toto  non  excedant  clarum  annu  valorem  quadraginta  librar 
p  annu  .  .  .  Et  volum5  ac  p  psentes  ordinam5  qd  omia  exit  oim  prdict  trare  &  prmissore  disponant5 
ad  sustentaoeem  eordem  Schole  &c.  &  non  alit5  absq5  fine  in  hanapio  &c.  In  cuius  rei  &c. 
T  R.  aPu(i  Westih  xxij  die  Maij. 


N 


DO 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


®UI  of  Pi'tlip  ©ostlgn,  1626. 

I  Phillippe  Gostl}7n  of  Groton  the  elder  in  the  countie  of  Suff:  clothier,  doe  ordaine  and  make 
this  my  last  will  ye  first  daie  of  April  1626.  I  bequeath  my  sowle  into  the  handes  of  Almightie 
god.  I  giue  vnto  the  poore  people  of  Groton  sixe  poundes,  to  be  distrybuted  at  the  pishe 
churche,  by  twentye  shillinges  a  year,  vppon  the  first  sondaye  in  Maie.  To  Phillip  Gostlyn  my 
sonne  the  howse  he  nowe  dwelleth  in  called  Notts,  wth  all  the  lands  nowe  in  his  occupienge ;  also 
Paynes  and  Longe  Croft  ;  alsoe  my  tenem1  called  Goodwynes  and  Hesseth,  wth  all  the  lands  ther 
■vnto  belonginge  ;  alsoe  one  dyhowse  abuttinge  vppon  Goodwynes  ;  alsoe  one  woode  called  Bulles 

wood  conteynnge  nvne  acres,  to  him  and  his  heires  forever.  To  Thomas  Gostlyn  my  sonne  the 

howse  that  he  nowe  dwelleth  in,  wth  all  the  lands  in  his  owne  occupienge  ;  alsoe  my  tenem1  that 
Steven  Ockley  nowe  dwelleth  in,  wth  all  the  lands  in  the  occupacon  of  the  said  Stephen  ;  alsoe  the 
howse  y4,  Peter  Turner  nowe  dwelleth  in  wth  all  ye  lands  ;  alsoe  twoe  groves  conteyning  fowre 
acres  ;  alsoe  one  tenement,  nowe  in  the  occupacon  of  Gridley,  wth  apeece  of  land  called  Foxes ;  to 
him  aud  his  heires  forever.  Ynto  John  Gostlyng  my  sonne  my  howse  called  Warrens,  wth  the  barne, 
stable,  gardens  ortchard  and  all  the  appurtenncs,  nowe  in  ye  occupacon  of  William  Kedby  ;  also 
my  howse  called  Doves  wth  the  orchard  now  in  the  occupacon  of  Charles  Newton  ;  alsoe  my 

meadowes  that  I  bought  of  Peter  Bull,  and  my  lease  of  Collines  and  Collins  meadow,  and  my 

meadowe  that  I  had  by  exchange  of  Mr  Winthrop  ;  also  a  tenem*  called  Horners,  with  the  gardens, 
orchards,  and  the  land  belonging,  to  him  and  to  his  heires  forever.  Provided  always  that  my 
wife  Jane  Gostline  shall  have  y®  said  tenement  called  Warrens  wth  all  the  profits  during  her 
naturall  life.  And  my  will  is  that  my  sonne  Charles  Newton,  and  my  daughter  Susan  his  wyfe 
shall  have  Doves,  where  they  nowe  dwell,  wth  the  consent  of  the  Lord,  soe  long  as  either  of  them 
shall  lyve,  paying  therfor  yerely  vnto  my  sonne  John  Gostlyn  fowre  pound  everie  yeare.  Alsoe  my 
will  is  that  my  said  sonne  Charles  Newton  and  Susan  his  wyfe  shall  occupie  and  enioye  Horners 
wth  the  consent  of  the  Lord,  duringe  the  terme  of  twelfe  yeres.  Ynto  Samuell  Gostlyn  my  sonne 
my  howse,  now  in  ye  occupacon  of  John  Gostlyn,  and  lands  thereto  belonginge,  wth  Burchly  and 
Burchly  meadowe,  to  him  and  his  heires  forever.  My  sonne  John  Gostlyn  shall  occupie  said 
howse  duringe  the  lyfe  of  my  wyfe,  payinge  therfore  tenne  pounds  for  everie  yere.  Vnto  Charles 
Newton  my  sonne  &  Susan  his  wyfe,  my  lease  of  Pitchers  howse,  wth  ye  dyhowse,  leadfatts,  tilts 
jAndJ  wooduetts,  all  the  tearme  yet  vnexpired.  Also  I  give  all  my  goods  unbequeathed  vnto 
Phillippe  and  Thomas  Gostlyn  my  twoe  sonnes,  and  I  doe  ordaine  my  saide  sonnes  to  be  my  exec9. 
I  have  here  vnto  sett  my  seale  in  the  presence  of  John  Winthrop,  William  Newton.  Piobatum 
xxi°  die  Septembris  1626.  Et  comissa  fuit  adf  bonoru^  Ac.  Thome  vni  executori  .  .  . 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Pearle,”  fo.  622. 


®ill  of  ptiip  ®ostlin,  1629. 

The  fower  and  twentieth  day  of  ffebruary,  1629,  I  Phillip  Gostlin  of  Romford  in  the  Countie 
of  Essex,  Clothier,  considering  the  certainety  of  death,  and  the  vncertainety  of  the  tyme  how  soone 
or  suddenly  it  maye  please  God  to  call  me,  have  therefore  ordayned  and  made  this  my  will, 
ffirst  I  doe  commend  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  Allmightie  God,  trusting  through  Christ’s  merritts 
that  my  sinnes  are  forgiven,  and  that  at  the  last  day  I  shall  appeare  amongst  the  holy  elect 


GOSTLIN  OF  GROTON. 


91 


children  of  God.  And  my  body  I  comitt  to  the  earth  from  whence  it  came,  thither  to  be  brought 
in  that  Christian  forme  of  buryall  as  becometh  a  playne  man’s  corps.  Item  I  give  vnto  Mary 
Gostlin  my  wife  fower  parcells  of  pasture  or  wood  called  Hekeses,  conteyning  twenty  acres  or  more 
in  the  parish  of  Groton  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  for  life,  and  after  her  death  to  the  issue  of 
mee  the  said  Phillip  and  Mary  my  wife.  Alsoe  I  give  unto  Mary  the  goods  that  are  in  the 
George  at  Romford.  Item  I  give  vnto  Phillip  Gostlin  my  sonne  one  messuage  or  farm  house 
called  Goodines  and  Hasetes  conteyning  thirtie  two  acres  more  or  less.  Alsoe  my  seale  ringe  wch 
was  given  me  by  my  ffather.  Item  I  give  and  bequeath  to  my  sonne  Steven  Gostlin  one  pcell 
of  land  called  Balerds,  and  alsoe  one  hundred  pounds  to  be  paid  him  by  his  vncle  Steven  Cooke. 
More,  I  give  vnto  Mary  my  now  wife  all  my  bills  and  bonds.  To  the  poore  of  Groton  twenty 
shillings.  Vnto  the  poore  of  the  towne  of  Romford  twentie  shillings.  Item  I  give  to  Mr  Mosse 
for  a  sermon  at  my  funerall  tenne  shillings.  Item  I  doe  make  my  ffather  ffish  of  Romford  to 
be  overseer  of  this  my  will.  Item  I  doe  make  Mary  my  wife  to  be  my  whole  executrix.  And  if 
it  shall  happen  she  the  said  Mary  to  die  and  leave  noe  issue  of  our  two  bodies  then  the 
said  land  formerly  given  shalbe  equallie  divided  betweene  my  two  sonnes,  they  paying  to  my 
wives  sonne  Richard  Norris,  tenne  pounds.  Rich:  ffish  Scrip:  Probatum  sexto  die  Decembris  1631 
Juramento  Marie  Gostlin  Relicti  et  Executricis.  P.C.C.  133  St.  John. 

Ballards,  Goodwyns  and  Hersents  were  the  property  of  the  second  Adam  Winthrop,  temp. 
Edward  the  Sixth,  and  were  holden  of  the  Honour  of  Clare  (see  page  33).  In  1 604,  Philip 
Gostlin  of  Groton,  the  testator’s  father,  who  had  purchased  Goodwyn’s  and  Hersants  of  one  Robert 
Dixon,  sued  Jasper  Huggins,  the  husband  of  Dixon’s  widow,  for  recovery  of  the  title  deeds,  under 
colour  of  which  the  Huggins  had  stripped  the  premises  and  even  secretly  sold  them  (James  I. 
B.  &  A.,  G.  4.  73).  The  Chancery  Bill  is  signed  by  the  third  Adam  Winthrop,  who  was  counsel 
for  the  plaintiff,  and  evidently  won  the  case. 


®I)ontas  (Sostlxn  of  ffiroton,  1612 — 1649* 

Thomas  Gostlin,  a  Suffolk  clothier,  was  married  at  Groton,  5  January,  1612,  to  Jane,  second 
daughter  of  the  third  Adam  Winthrop.  The  births  of  twelve  children,  which  followed  this  union^ 
are  recorded  in  the  parish  registers  or  the  Winthrop  Diary.  Alice,  the  youngest,  was  baptised  on 
the  tenth  of  April,  1636.  In  a  letter  to  his  brother-in-law,  John  Winthrop,  dated  Groton,  March  2, 
1639,  Thomas  Gostlin  explains  his  reasons  for  not  having  carried  out  his  purpose  of  emigrating  to  New 
England.  At  the  outset  his  wife  was  indisposed  to  go,  and  now  that  she  is  willing  their  means  will 
not  admit  of  it.  He  adds  “we  have  a  great  desyer  to  send  you  yor  godson,  or  sonn  John,  to  be 
imployed  by  you,  &  indeed  we  had  sent  him  now  but  for  want  of  moneys.”  There  is  no  record, 
however,  that  John  Gostlin  came  over,  and  he  died  in  or  before  1649,  as  appears  by  a  letter  from 
his  father  in  that  year  to  John  Winthrop,  Junr.,  in  which  occurs  the  following  passage:— “We  have 
lost  many  of  or  family  since  your  departure'  :  my  sonn  Willis,  my  sonn  John,  my  daughter  Mary, 
my  sonn  Wolfe,— these  are  all  gone.  The  Lord  fit  us  for  or  change  ...  My  wife  desyors  to  be 
remembered  to  you  all.  My  cosen  Stephen  Winthrops  wife  also  desyors  to  be  remembered.  She 

1  This  is  since  1644,  when  John  Winthrop,  Jun.,  was  last  in  England. 

N2 


92 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


hath  bin  wtb  me  above  this  halfe  yeare.  Her  husband  is  in  Wales.  She  laye  in  heere  &  hathe  a 
fine  girle.  My  daughter  Willis  hath  changed  her  name  to  Bretland.  She  is  married  into  the 
north.  She  sent  writings  to  yr  father  concerning  some  estate  she  should  have  in  Virginia.  I  praye 
■doe  what  you  can  for  her.” 

Confirmatory  of  the  above  is  a  letter  from  Anne  Willis  about  her  claim  to  an  estate  in 
Virginia,  originally  granted  to  William  Willis,  deceased,  and  then  in  the  occupation  of  Justinian 
Cooper.  There  is  also  a  power  of  attorney,  in  which  she  is  described  as  “Ann  Willis  of  Chettle 
in  the  county  of  Dorset,  widdowe  of  Nathaneall  Willis  deceased.”  A  Zachariah  Willis,  presumably 
a  brother  of  her  husband,  joins  in  the  power. 

One,  at  least,  of  the  children  of  Thomas  Gostlin  and  Jane  Winthrop  seems  to  have  settled 
in  America.  In  a  letter  from  Mrs.  Emmanuel  Downing  to  her  sister-in-law,  Mrs.  John  Winthrop, 
written  from  Salem  in  New  England,  without  date,  but  probably  in  1639,  she  says: — “I  hear 
Margaret  Gostlin  and  my  Nan  is  a  cominge  [from  England],  and  no  we  I  shall  be  over  mayded.  I 
hear  you  want  one :  if  you  doe,  I  should  be  glad  she  might  serv  you  till  some  of  our  children  or 
seruants  wear  disposed  of.  She  doth  all  the  worst  worke  in  her  mothers  howes  and  is  very 
•servisable.”  Margaret  Gostlin  would  then  have  been  about  twenty  years  of  age.  She  subsequently 
married  .  .  .  Heathcote.  For  an  interesting  letter  from  her  in  Antigua,  June  27,  1665,  see 
■“Massachusetts  Historical  Society’s  Proceedings,”  Series  2,  vol.  v. 


IBrnjatnin  ffiostlm,  1615 — 1679. 

As  told  in  the  Winthrop  correspondence,  the  story  of  Benjamin  Gostlin,  the  honest  sea-captain 
of  the  seventeenth  century,  is  very  characteristic  of  the  times  he  lived  in.  Baptized  at  Groton 
on  the  9th  of  May,  1615,  the  son  of  Thomas  Gostlin  and  Jane  Winthrop,  his  wife,  he  became  a 
sailor  whilst  yet  in  his  teens.  Under  date  of  March  1,  1635  (old  style),  Emmanuel  Downing  writes 
to  John  Winthrop,  Jun.,  afterwards  Governor  of  Connecticut,  “  Ben  Gostlyn  is  like  to  prove  a  proper 
seaman.  He  is  returned  out  of  the  Streights  and  gone  to  sea  againe.  His  master  useth  him  like 
a  sonne,  and  the  youth  would  not  change  his  course  of  life  for  any  other.  So  soon  as  he  shalbe 
■out  of  his  tyme,  he  intends  to  see  New  England.” 

On  the  6th  of  March,  1639  (1640),  Benjamin  Gostlin  himself  writes  from  London,  to  his 
uncle,  John  Winthrop,  Governor  of  Massachusetts,  “  I  shold  be  verry  gladd  of  some  good  occation 
to  come  to  Newe  England  that  I  might  injoy  yr  sweete  society,  but  as  yett  I  am  in  soe  good 
imployment  &  in  soe  hopefull  a  waye  that  I  shold  be  much  blameable  if  I  shold  thrust  my  selfe 

out  of  it  ,  .  .  I  have  bin  at  home  these  6  months,  but  am  now  bound  for  Rushia  &  from  thence  to 

Leghorne.” 

Two  months  later  (May  8,  1640)  he  writes  his  uncle  again,  saying  he  has  been  delayed,  but 
expects  to  sail  in  ten  days.  He  sends  as  a  present  “a  small  rondlett  of  rise  and  2  jarrs  of  oyle.” 

The  letter  shows  him  to  have  been  a  religious  man,  with  some  interest  in  politics.  “  The  Lord  be 

mercyfull  unto  us,”  he  exclaims,  “  &  turne  the  Kinge’s  hart,  or  else  to  this  land,  in  my  foolish 
judgement,  is  nothing  to  be  expected  but  confushion.” 


GOSTLIN  OF  GROTON. 


93 


April  14,  1657,  Colonel  Stephen  Winthrop,  M.P.,  writes  from  London  to  his  brother  John  in 
New  England,  “  Cosin  Ben  Gostlin  is  come  rich  &  safe  from  the  East  Indye,  but  is  goeinge 
thither  againe.”  Stephen  Winthrop  died  in  the  following  year,  and  no  later  letter  of  his  is 
preserved. 

Sept.  12,  1658,  John  Winthrop,  Governor  of  Connecticut,  writes  his  son,  Fitz-John  Winthrop, 
then  a  Lieutenant  in  Monk’s  army: — “There  is  a  kinsman  of  ours,  Capt.  Gostlin,  a  captaine  of  a 
ship  was  last  yeare  at  ye  East  Indies.  If  he  be  come  home,  enquire  of  his  welfare,  and  of  his 
father  and  mother  and  brothers  and  sisters.  His  father  lived  at  Groton  in  Suffolke,  where  your 
grandfather  Winthrop  and  we  lived.  His  mother  was  your  grandfather  Winthrop’s  owne  sister. 
I  should  be  glad  to  heare  of  them  all.  If  you  are  in  Scotland,  your  Aunt  Downing,  I  believe, 
knoweth  them  all.  His  name  is  Capt.  Benjamin  Gostlin.  He  liveth,  I  suppose,  about  Ratcliffe,  or 
thereabouts.  Every  merchant  or  sea  capt:  upon  the  Exchange  knoweth  him  and  can  tell  where 
he  is.” 

June  29,  1604,  Benjamin  Gostlin  writes  Captain  Fitz-John  Winthrop  (both  being  then  in 
London)  “My  body  is  so  bruised  with  a  blow  y*  I  reced  from  a  horse  y*  I  am  incapeable  of 
mountinge  the  guard  this  daye ;  therefore  request  yon  to  doe  it  for  me,  and  I  shall  send  you  a 
horse,  with  all  things  requiset,  by  this  boy,  to  be  reddy  in  the  millitary  grounde  by  2  of  the  elk. 
If  you  can  borrow  a  buff  cote,  it  will  be  better  than  if  I  send  mine,  because  mine  will  be  too 
shorte.”  Fitz-John  Winthrop’s  regiment  had  recently  been  disbanded,  which  accounts  for  his  being 
without  a  horse  and  uniform. 

Nov.  25,  1661,  the  widow  of  Emmanuel  Downing  writes  from  East  Hatley  in  Cambridgeshire 
to  her  nephew,  John  Winthrop,  then  in  London  as  Agent  for  Connecticut,  “  I  am  sorry  to  hear  of 
my  nephew  and  neece  Gostlin’s  sickness.  Quarterns  are  not  civille  agues :  they  will  out  tarry 
their  Wellcome.  I  pray,  if  opertunity  present,  my  servis  to  my  deare  sister  and  them  all :  I  doubt 
not  of  her  much  joy  to  see  you ;  and  to  Collonell  Winthrops  wyfe  when  you  see  her.”  The  persons 
here  referred  to  are  Benjamin  Gostlin,  his  wife,  and  his  mother,  Jane  Gostlin  (born  Winthrop),  the 
writer’s  sister. 

Feb.  15,  1663  (1664),  Mrs.  Emmanuel  Downing  writes  Horn  East  Hatley  to  John  Winthrop, 
Governor  of  Connecticut : — My  son  Peters  wrote  mee  word  latley  that  not  long  since  hee  had  seen 
Captaine  Gozlin,  &  y*  my  nephew  had  lately  made  a  purchase  of  an  hundred  pounds  pr  An.  neer 
Groton  ;  y1  hee  &  his  wrife  &  children  -were  purposed  to  go  and  live  in  that,  &  that  my  sister  and 
one  of  her  daughters  should  continue  in  his  house  where  he  now  lives  at  Stratford.”  It  would 
appear  from  this  that  Thomas  Gostlin,  the  Captain’s  father,  had  been  some  time  dead,  and  that 
Jane  Gostlin,  his  mother,  was  not  living  at  Groton,  but  in  her  son’s  house,  probably  at  Stratford 
Langthorne  in  Essex.  For  we  learn  from  a  Fine,  made  in  Easter  term,  1657,  that  the  latter  had 
bought,  some  six  years  before,  three  messuages,  eight  cottages,  a  barn,  two  gardens  and  nineteen 
acres  of  land  in  the  adjoining  township  of  West  Ham,  of  which  Stratford  Langthorne  is  a  well- 
known  hamlet.  The  Fine  of  the  purchase  of  the  property  in  Groton,  the  place  of  his  birth  and 
early  associations,  will  be  given  hereafter. 

Feb.  8,  1667  (1668).  Captain  Robert  Morris,  variously  styled  “mariner”  and  “merchant,” 
writes  John  Winthrop  in  New  England  about  some  brood  mares  for  a  plantation  in  Maryland.  He 
adds,  “  If  you  charge  bills,  I  live  where  you  knowe,  in  Radcliffe  over  against  the  stone  taverns. 
Brother  Gostlin  was  verry  ill  when  I  wont  from  home,  and  his  good  wife  is  dead,  and  I  fear  the 


94 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


children  will  not  find  him  to  have  so  great  an  estate  as  wos  thought  for.  All  men  that  he  hath 
to  doe  with  cheate  him.”  The  “  brother  Gostlin  ”  here  referred  to  must  have  been  Benjamin,  who 
may  have  married  a  sister  of  the  writer. 

Oct.  6,  1679,  was  proved  the  will  (P.C.C.  129  King),  dated  Oct.  31,  1672,  of  “Benjamin 
Gostlin  of  Leigh  in  the  County  of  Essex,  mariner.”  He  devises  to  his  son,  Thomas  Gostlin,  all  his 
lands,  free  or  copyhold,  in  Groton  and  Kersey  in  the  County  of  Suffolke.  To  his  daughter  Judith, 
A\'ife  of  Zachary  Gellum,  his  house  in  Moorefields  in  the  County  of  Middlesex.  Said  Judith  to  be 
residuary  legatee  and  sole  executrix.  There  can  hardly  be  a  doubt  that  this  was  the  “  cousin 
Ben  Gostlin  ”  of  the  Winthrop  papers. 


jfixxe.  fxxrcljase  of  laxxfts  xn  dxrotoxx,  1665. 

Hec  est  finalis  Concordia  fca  in  Cur  Dni  Regis  apud  Westm9  a  die  sci  Micftis  in  tres 
septimanas  anno  regnor  Caroli  sedi  Dei  gra  Angi  Scocie  ffranc  &  Hibnie  Regis  fidei  defens  Ac. 
a  conqu  quinto  decimo  Coram  Orlando  Bridgeman,  Robto  Hyde,  Thoma  Tirrell  &  Samuele  Browne, 
Justic  &  alijs  Dni  Regis  fidelib^  tunc  ibi  jfaentib^  Int  Beniaminu  Gostlin  geSosum  quer  et  Joftem 
Browne  &  Mariam  vx9em  eius  deforc  de  septem  mesuagiis  trib^  gardinis  trib^  pomar  viginti  &  quatuor 
acris  T:re  quatuordecim  acris  prati  &  quatuor  acris  pasture  cum  ptih  in  Boxford  &  Groton.  Vnde 
plitm  conuencols  sum  fuit  int  eos  in  eadem  Cur.  Scilt  qd  f?dci  Johes  &  Maria  recogn  fidca, 
ten  cum  ptih  esse  ius  ipius  Beniamini  vt  ill  que  idem  Beniaminus  het  de  dono  {3dcor  Johis  & 
Marie  et  ill  remisef  A  quiet  clam  de  ipis  Johe  &  Maria  &  hered  suis  fklco  Beniamino  &  hereds 
suis  imppm.  Et  f?te9ea  ijdem  Johes  A  Maria  concesser  p  se  &  hered  ipius  Johis  qd  ipi  Warant 
fidco  Beniamino  &  hered  suis  fMca  ten  cum  ptin  conta  j?dcos  Joftem  A  Marian  A  hered  ipius  Johis 
imppm.  Et  p  hac  recogn  remissione  quietclam  Warant  fine  &  concordia  idem  Beniaminus  dedit 
$dcis  Johi  &  Marie  centum  libras  sterlingorf.  Suff.  Feet  of  Fines.  Mich.  1663.  Suff. 


Will  ot  Soljxx  ®0stlixx.  1645. 

The  thirteenth  day  of  ffebruary  1645,  in  the  one  and  twentieth  yeare  of  or  Soveraign  Lord, 
King  Charles  Ac.  I  John  Gostlyn  of  Mouncks  Eleigh  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke,  yeoman,  make 
my  last  will  and  testament.  To  the  poore  people  of  Moncks  Eleigh  forty  shillings,  to  be  paid 
into  the  hands  of  George  Day  and  my  brother  George  Chaplyn.  To  my  two  brothers,  Thomas 
Gostly  [sic.]  and  Jeremy  Gostlyn,  twenty  shillings  a  piece.  To  my  brother  Phillipp  Gostlyn  tenn 
shillings.  To  my  sister  Bridgett  Meadowes  widow  five  shillings.  My  meadow  called  Skippes 
Crosse  Meadow  to  John  Gostlyn  my  Kinsman,  sonne  of  my  brother  Thomas  Gostlyn  aforesaid, 
and  to  his  heires  for  ever,  presently  after  the  decease  of  Elizabeth  my  wife.  My  lease  of 
Moncks  Eleigh  Hall  wth  a  water  myll,  and  all  the  land  contayned  in  one  payre  of  Indentures 
granted  by  Thomas  Cropley,  gent,  to  my  wife  aforesaid.  To  my  said  wife  all  my  goods,  readie 
money,  bonds,  househould  stuffe  whatsoever.  I  nominate  [her]  sole  executrix.  Sealed  and  sub¬ 
scribed  in  the  jhice  of  vs,  John  Chaplyn,  George  Chaplyn  and  Thomas  Andrews.  Probatum  15 
Aprilis  1646  juramento  Elizabethoe  Gostlyn  relictce. 

The  marriage  of  a  Jeremy  Gostling  and  Mary  Usher  is  recorded  in  the  Registers  of 
Groton  16  April  1672. 


GOSTLIN  OP  GROTON. 


95 


(iostltn  of  Proton. 


Kedbie,  1st  hus-=pJane  Kedbie,  widow,  married  at— Philip  Gostlin  of  Groton,  co.  Suffolk,  clothier.  Will=j= Alice,  named  in  the 


band,  probably  Lewis 
Kedby,  one  of  the  feof¬ 
fees  of  Boxford  School 
in  1596. 


Groton  to  Philip  Gostlin,  19  Nov.  Arch.  Sudb.  1  April  1626  ;  proved  21  Sept.  1626  ; 
1616.  Her  will  nuncupative  Arch.  Bought  Good wy ns  and  Hessetts  and  other  lands  in 
Sudb.  1  July  1637,  was  proved  Groton;  buried  there  27  May  1626.  Co-founder  of 
next  day  by  Lewis  Kedby,  her  son.  Boxford  Grammar  School,  1595. 


Groton  Parish  Reg¬ 
isters  from  1578  to 
1598. 


Lewis  Kedby, = 
sole  heir  to  his 
mother,  1637. 


Joseph  Kedby, 
bapt.  21  Sept. 
1621  .AdamWin- 
throp’s  Diary. 


3.  John  Gostlin, 
to  whom  his  fa¬ 
ther  left  War¬ 
rens,  Doves  and 
Horners  in  Gro¬ 
ton,  1626  ;  bap¬ 
tized  there  2 
April,  1562. 


Susan  Gostlin,  bapt.  at  Groton, 
22  Jan.  1580  ;  wife  of  Charles 
Newton  in  1626. 


Charles  Newton,  stated  in  a  letter 
of  Forthe  Winthrop  to  his  brother, 
John  Winthrop,  17  April  1623,  to 
have  gone  to  Cambridge  in  that  year. 


4.  Samuel  Gostlin,  bapt.  at=pJoane 
Groton,  6  Nov.  1594  ;  witness 
1620  to  the  first  will  of  John 
Winthrop,  who  describes  him 
in  a  letter,  12  Aug.  1623,  as 
then  on  a  journey  to  Ireland. 


Thomas  Gostlin,  bapt.  at  Groton, 
29  Aug.  1630. 


1  i  i  i  I 

Margaret,  bapt.  1578. 

Margery,  bapt.  1590. 

Anne,  bapt.  1593. 

Joseph,  bapt.  1595  ; 
buried  1597. 

Marye,  bapt.  1598. 


2.  Thomas  Gost-= 
liu  of  Groton, 
clothier,  bap¬ 
tized  there  2 
March  1588  ; 
married  5  Jan. 
1612  ;  living 
1640. 


Jane,  dau.  of  Adam 
Winthrop  of  Groton, 
sister  of  John  Win¬ 
throp,  Governorof  Mas- 
i  sachusetts  ;  living  15 
Feb.l663,and  described 
in  her  sister  Downing’s 
letter  as  then  of  Strat¬ 
ford,  and  residing  with 
Benjn.  Gostlin,  her  son. 


.  .  .  Nor-=f=Mary,  last  wife  of  Philip- 
ris,  for-  Gostlin,  after  whose  death 
mer  hus-  she  married  “  one  whose 
band.  lands  were  worth  seven 
score  pounds  a  year.”  So  in 
letter  of  Thomas  Gostlin, 
11  June  1633. 

i — 1 

Richard  Norris,  devisee  1629 
of  his  stepfather  Gostlin. 


=Margaret  Blom-= 
field,  widow,  2d 
wife  ;  mar.  at 
Groton,  8  Sept. 
1617  ;  buried 
there  3  Nov. 
1623  ;  named  in 
Adam  Winthrop’s 
Diary. 


:1.  Philip  Gostlin  of- 
Romford,  co.  Essex, 
clothier;  bapt.  at  Gro¬ 
ton  18  Dec.  1586  ;  Will 
P.C.C,  133  St.  John, 
24  Feb.  1629  ;  inher¬ 
ited  Goodwyn’s  and 
Hessets  in  Groton  ; 
son-in-law  to  ...  Fish 
of  Romford. 


-Anne,  1st  wife 
1614  ;  died  in 
childbed  27 
March  1617. 
Adam,  Win¬ 
throp’s  Diary. 


i - r 

Anna,  bapt.  at 
Groton,  5  Oct. 
1613  ;  m.  1st 
Nathaniel  Wil¬ 
lis,  2d  ...  Bret- 
land  of  the 
North, 


i — i 


- 1 - 1 - ! - 

Jane,  born  Margaret, bapt.  Mary,  bapt.  Lucy,  bapt.  at  Martha  Gostlin. 

10  Feb.  at  Groton,  6  at  Groton.  9  Groton,  14  May  — 

June,  1619  ;  Sept.  1621.  1626.  Alice,  bapt.  at 

married  .  .  .  Winthrop  —  Groton,  10  Ap- 

Heathcote  and  Diary.  Died  Sarah,  bapt.  at  ril,  1636. 

had  issue.  Liv-  before  1649.  Groton,  3  Aug. 
ing  in  Antigua,  1628. 

1665. 


1616. 

Winthrop 

Diary. 


Philip  Gost¬ 
lin,  bapt.  at 
Groton,  13 
Sept.  1614  ; 
living  1629. 


Stephen  Gost-=pEllen 


lin,  bapt.  at  Gro¬ 
ton.  17  March 
1616  ;  living 
1639  ;  had  un¬ 
cle,  Stephen 
Cooke. 


Frost, 
mar¬ 
ried  at 
Groton 
7  June 
1638. 


I 

Benjamin  Gostlin,  a  sea  captain  ;  bapt.=p 
at  Groton,  9  May  1615  ;  bought  lands.  &c. 
at  West  Ham,  1657,  and  at  Groton,  1663. 
Made  will  at  Leigh,  co.  Essex,  P.C.C.  129 
King,  31  Oct.  1672  ;  probate  6  Oct.  1679. 


Stephen  Gostlin, 
born  16  March 
1617.  Winthrop 
Diary. 


Thomas  Gostlin, 
bapt.  at  Groton, 
15  Nov.  1633. 


John  Gostlin,  bapt.  at 
Groton,  18  Jan.  1623  ; 
died  in  or  before  1649; 
godson  to  Governor 
John  Winthrop. 


H 

Stephen  Gost¬ 
lin,  bapt.  at 
Groton,  28 
Oct.  1639. 


Thomas  Gostlin,  named  in  his  father’s  will,  1679  ;  sold 
lands  in  Groton  by  Fine,  28  Charles  II. 


Judith  Gostlin,  named,  with  her— Zachary  Gellum. 
husband,  in  her  father’s  will. 


V.  . 


1 ;  '  \  J  ’ 

Botomng  of  Jpstotcl). 


Armorial  Hearings. 

In  his  collections  towards  a  pedigree  of  the  Downings  of  East  Hatley,  Le  Neve  (“Baronets,” 
vol.  III.,  p.  128,  College  of  Arms)  states  that  “Godfrey  Downing  of  the  County  of  the  City 
of  Norwich  ”  bore  “  Barry  of  10  arg.  and  vert. ;  over  all  a  griffon  segreant  volant  or.” 

Armorial  seals  of  Emmanuel  Downing,  his  wife,  Lucy,  and  their  son,  Sir  George  Downing,  (of 
which  fac-similes  have  been  published  by  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society),  establish  the  fact  that 
they  used  the  arms  attributed  to  this  Godfrey  Downing  by  Le  Neve. 

The  arms  of  Downing  of  Norfolk,  as  given  in  the  Visitations  of  that  county,  “  Harl.  MS.”  No. 
1552,  fo.  219b,  were,  Barry  of  eight,  argent  and  vert.,  a  gryphon  segreant  or. :  and  the  Crest,  An 
arm,  embowed,  habited  in  mail  proper,  tied  round  the  wrist  with  a  riband  or,  and  holding  in  the 
hand  an  arrow  argent,  barbed  and  flighted  gold.  These  arms  were  used  by  the  two  Calibut 
Downings,  father  and  son,  in  1613. 

The  precise  relationship  between  the  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  Downings,  however,  has  not  yet 
been  ascertained,  and  has  been  the  subject  of  much  misconception  and  misstatement.  The  sixth 
volume  of  the  Fourth  Series  of  the  “  Massachusetts  Historical  Society’s  Collections  ”  contains  fifty-six 
letters  of  Emmanuel  Downing  and  four  of  Sir  George  Downing.  The  first  volume  of  the  Fifth  Series 
of  the  said  “Collections”  contains  an  additional  letter  of  Emmanuel  Downing,  forty-two  letters  of  his 
second  wife  (Lucy  Winthrop),  one  of  his  daughter  Mary,  two  of  his  daughter  Martha,  one  of  his 
daughter-in-law,  Mrs.  Joshua  Downing,  and  three  of  her  husband,  one  letter  of  the  Rev.  Joseph 
Downing,  brother  of  Emmanuel,  and  three  of  Charles  Downing,  grandson  of  Emmanuel. 

Letters  to  or  from  Emmanuel  Downing  and  his  brother  Joshua  are  also  to  be  found  in  the 
first  volume  of  the  “Life  and  Letters  of  John  Winthrop;”  while  in  the  second  of  the  volumes  of 
“  Historical  Collections  ”  already  cited,  and  partly  in  the  ninth  volume  of  the  Third  Series,  are 
nineteen  letters  of  Francis  Kirby  (husband  of  Susanna  Downing),  which  abound  in  references  to  his 
wife’s  family. 

The  pedigree  of  Downing  of  Ipswich  and  of  Gamlingay,  co.  Cambridge,  which  will  be  found 
a  page  or  two  further  on,  is  based  upon  probate  and  parish  records,  and  upon  the  very  numerous 
Downing  letters  just  referred  to,  collated  with  Le  Neve’s  Downing  pedigree  in  the  College  of  Arms. 


DOWNING  OF  IPSWICH. 


97 


®iU  of  (imge  Intoning,  1561. 

George  Downing  of  Beccles  in  the  Countye  of  Suffolk,  15  Dec.  1561.  To  Cicely  my  wife 
two  howses  wherein  I  dwell  in  Beccles,  for  the  terme  of  her  life ;  and  after  her  decease  to 
Barnabe  Downing  my  sonne,  at  his  age  of  five  and  twenty  yeares,  &  his  heires  male :  failing  such 
issue  to  John  Downing  my  sonne  when  twenty  five,  George  Downing  my  sonne,  William  Downing  my 
sonne,  in  order  of  entail :  and  failing  such  issue  of  my  sonnes,  to  the  next  heir  male  of  me.  To 
Margaret  Downing  my  daughter  xx1*  when  twenty  one  To  John  Downing  my  sonne  xxh.  John  and 
George  my  sonnes  to  go  the  grammer  schole,  and  then  to  the  Universitie  of  Cambridge.  To  Barnaby 
Downing  my  sonne  lxxxh.  My  cosen  Robert  Downing  of  All  Saints  in  South  Elmham.  Probat. 
26  June  1564  jur  Cecilias  Downing  relc.  et  executric.  Cur.  Prcerog.  Cant.  20  Stevenson. 


Mill  of  (Sm*g£  Do  toning,  1611. 

George  Downynge  of  Ipswiche,  Scholemaster.  Firste  I  commytt  my  sowle  to  my  blessed 
Saviour  Christe  Jesus,  who  hath  redemed  it  with  his  precious  bloudd.  And  my  Bodye  I  comytt 
to  Christian  Buryall  with  assured  psuation  that  he  will  rayse  it  upp  at  y®  laste  daye  from  death  to 
eternal  lyfe,  because  he  dyed  for  it,  and  rose  againe  to  iustifie  it. 

As  for  the  seate  &  staye  of  myne  howse,  landes,  goods  and  movables  I  give  full  aucthoritie 
to  Susan  Downynge,  Nahomie  Downynge  and  Abigale  Downynge,  my  three  daughters,  to  sell  my 
howse  and  tenements  with  the  gardanis,  orchardes  and  all  that  doeth  belonge  therto,  with  the 
welles  Passages  by  both  the  back  gates,  to  the  value  of  eight  skoare  aud  tenn  powndes. 

All  the  rest  of  my  goodes  to  my  foresaid  three  daughters  to  be  equally  devyded  amongst 
themselves.  I  give  my  three  daughters  the  lease  of  the  howse  I  now  dwell  in,  being  called  the 
white  Friars,  being  the  Free  howld  of  William  Hill  of  London  Merchaunt,  whereof  there  is  Fower 
powndes  a  yeare  will  aryse  cleare,  the  Rente  beinge  paide. 

I  give  unto  Joseph  Downinge  all  my  bookes  at  home  and  at  Cambridge,  saving  my  twoo 
houshold  bybles  with  tenne  of  my  cheif  bookes  at  home,  whiche  I  will  give  my  three  daughters. 

I  give  Nahomie  my  danske  cheste  whiche  standethe  in  the  somm9  pi  our  uppon  the  daunsk  cheste. 

I  will  and  give  full  aucthoritie  to  my  three  daughters  to  receive  and  paye  all  my  debtes, 
and  whatsoever  is  left  shalbe  therse.  I  haue  made  my  three  daughters,  Susan,  Nahomie  and 
Abygull  my  sole  and  only  executrix;  this  xvijth  of  Januarie  Anno  Dni  1611. 

Proved  at  Ipswich  3  October  1611  &  Administration  granted  to  Naomie  one  of  the  daughters. 


ffittll  of  iiatljantol  Bototring,  1616. 

Nathaniel  Downeinge  of  London,  gentleman,  7  May  1616.  To  be  buried  in  the  parish  church 

of  Sk  Dionis  Backchurch,  or  else  where  it  shall  please  my  executrix.  To  my  brother  Joseph 

Downeinge,  now  dwellinge  in  Ipswich,  twenty  pounds.  To  my  sister  Abigail  Goade,  wife  of  John 
Goade,  skinner,  and  to  their  sonne,  John  Goade.  To  my  sister  Susanna  Kirby,  wife  of  John  Kirby, 
skinner.  To  my  mother  in  lawe  Mary  Cellyn,  widow',  tenn  pounds  and  the  Hope  Ringe  which  wras  my 
mother’s.  To  my  brother  Joshua  Downeinge  the  seal  ring  of  gold  I  do  wear  on  my  hand.  To  my 
brother  Emanuel  Downeing  the  like  ring  of  gold  of  the  same  value  and  fashion.  Residue  to  Margaret 
my  wife  whom  I  make  sole  executrix.  Whereas  I  am  now  seized  in  fee  of  the  late  dissolved  monastery 
of  the  Fryers  Carmelites,  or  the  Whiteffryers  in  Ipsw'ich,  I  give  this  to  the  said  Margaret  my  wife 

and  to  her  heires  for  ever.  Probat.  14  May  1616  juramento  Margareti  Downeinge  relict  del  defunct. 

Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  48  Cope. 

O 


98 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


®ill  of  J&r  ©eorge  Bohming,  1685. 

Sir  George  Downing  of  East  Hatley,  co.  Cambridge,  Knight  and  Baronet,  24  Aug.  1683.  My 

body  to  be  interred  in  the  vault  which  I  have  made  under  the  chancel  at  Croyden  in  the  county 

of  Cambridge,  by  the  body  of  my  wife  Frances  Downing.  To  my  sons,  George  Downing  Esqr,  and 

William  Downing.  House  in  or  near  King  Street,  in  the  city  of  Westminster,  lately  called 

Hampden  House,  which  I  hold  by  lease  from  the  Crown,  and  Peacock  Court,  which  I  hold  of  the 
Collegiate  Church  of  St.  Peter,  Westminster  ;  all  which  are  now  demolished  and  rebuilt  or 
rebuilding,  and  called  Downing  Street,  to  Edward  Viscount  Morpeth  and  Sir  Henry  Pickering, 
Baronet,  my  son  in  law,  in  trust,  as  also  my  houses  in  St.  James’s  Park.  To  my  sons  Charles  and 
William  Downing  and  my  daughters  Lucy,  Mary  and  Anne  Downing  at  their  ages  of  twenty  one 
years  or  day  of  marriage.  To  my  dear  daughter  Frances  Cotton  the  guardianship  of  said  Lucy, 
Mary  and  Anne  To  Francis,  John  and  Thomas  Cotton,  children  of  said  Frances,  and  to  Elizabeth 
and  Frances  Pickering,  the  two  daughters  of  my  daughter  Pickering,  deceased.  To  my  nephew 
John  Peters,  niece  Lucy  Spicer,  nephew  Joshua  Downing,  and  to  Mr  Edmund  Woodroffe,  one  of  my 
Clerks  in  my  office  in  the  Exchequer.  A  Codicil  dated  7  July  1684.  Probate  19  July  1684. 

Cur.  Prterog.  Court.  139  Hare. 


Still  of  Utr  ©mge  flohmhtg,  1717. 

Sir  George  Downing  of  Gamlingay  Park  co.  Cambridge,  Baronet,  20  Dec.  1717.  My  Manors, 
lands  &c.  in  the  counties  of  Cambridge,  Bedford  and  Suffolk  to  James,  Earl  of  Salisbury,  Charles,  Earl 
of  Carlisle,  Nicholas  Leclimere  Esq.,  John  Pedley  Esq.  and  Robert  Pullyn  Esq.  to  hold  upon  such 
uses  as  are  after  declared.  To  the  use,  namely,  of  my  cousin  Jacob  Garret  Downing,  son  and  heir 
apparent  of  my  uncle  Charles  Downing  of  the  parish  of  St.  Andrew  Holborn  co.  Middlesex  Esq.  and 
after  his  death  to  the  heires  male  of  the  body  of  the  said  Jacob  Garret  Downing.  And  for  default 
of  such  issue  to  the  heirs  male  of  the  body  of  the  said  Charles  Downing.  And  for  default  of  such 
to  the  use  of  Thomas  Barnardiston,  son  and  heir  apparent  of  my  Aunt  Barnardiston  (wife  of  Thomas 
Barnardiston  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds  Esq.)  and  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body.  Failing  such  to  the 
heirs  male  of  the  body  of  my  said  Aunt  Barnardiston.  And  for  default  of  such  issue,  to  the  use 

of  my  cousin  Charles  Peters,  now  or  late  of  the  University  of  Oxford  &  the  heires  male  of 

his  body.  And  for  default  of  such,  to  the  use  and  behoof  of  my  cousin  John  Peters,  now  or 
late  of  the  said  Universitie,  brother  of  the  said  Charles  Peters  and  to  his  heirs  male  of  his  body. 

And  for  default  of  such  issue,  to  use  of  the  said  James,  Earl  of  Salisbury  &c.  in  trust,  that  out  of 

the  issues  of  said  premises  they  purchase  ground  within  the  town  of  Cambridge,  and  erect  a  colledge 
which  shall  be  called  by  the  name  of  Downing  College.  A  Charter  Royall  shall  be  obtained,  and 
Fellowes,  Schollars,  Members  Ac.  maintained  and  therein  shall  be  taught  such  useful  learning  as 
my  said  trustees  (with  the  consent  of  the  most  Reverend  the  Archbishops  of  Canterbury  and  York 
and  the  Masters  of  St.  Johns  College  and  Clare  Hall)  shall  direct  and  appoint.  Provided  allwaies 
that  if  the  said  lands  shall  come  to  be  vested  in  any  male  person  'whose  surname  shall  not  be 
Downing,  such  person  shall  take  the  simame  of  Downing  only.  My  personal  estate  I  give  unto  my 
said  cousin  Jacob  Caret  Downing,  whom  I  do  hereby  ordein  sole  extor  of  this  will. 

From  the  original,  penes  Mrs  Barmby  of  Yoxford,  A0  1845,  copied  by  Davy.  Add.  MS.  19,  127,  fo.  122. 

The  transcript,  with  probate  13  June  1749,  is  entered  in  the  Prerogative  Court,  179  Lisle. 


DOWNING  OF  IPSWICH. 


99 


Botontng  of  <@amltngag. 


George  Downing  of  Beccles,  co.  Suffolk  ;  Will  P.C.C.  20  Stevenson.  15  Dec.  1561  ;  probate  26= 
June  1564.  George  Downing,  his  son,  to  go  to  school  and  university. 


4- 


=Cicely,  named  1561  in  her  husband’s 
will  which  she  proved  1564. 


l.BarnabyDown- 
ing.  living  1561 
but  probably 
under  age. 


2.  John  Downing, 
2d  son,  to  go  to 
school  and  univer¬ 
sity,  1561. 


Margaret  3.  George  Downing,  Master  of  the  Grammar1 
Downing,  School.  Ipswich,  1607-10.  Entered  Queen’s 
under  age  Coll.  Cambr.  1569  ;  Will  Arch.  Suff.  14  Jan. 
1561.  1610;  proved 3  Oct. by  his  daughter  N ahomie. 


Nathaniel  Downing  of  London, = 
Gent.,  bapt.  at  St.  IVlary-at-Tower, 
Ipswich.  1587;  Will  P.O.C.48Cope, 
7  May  1616;  probate  14  May  to  bro¬ 
thers  Emmanuel  and  Joseph.  Ob. 
s.p.  To  be  buried  in  St.  Dionis 
Back-church,  London  ;  1st  husbd. ; 
married  6  May  1613. 


=Margaret,  da.  of  Dr= 
Selyne  or  Cellyn,  a 
French  Physician  ; 
her  husband  Down¬ 
ing  left  her  the  White 
Friars  in  Ipswich 
1616. 


=Edward  Rey¬ 
nolds  of  London, 
mercht,  2d  hus¬ 
band  ;  Will  28 
March  1618  ; 
probate  9  April 
the  same  year. 


Susanna,  wife  of 
Francis  Kirby  of 
London,  whose  let¬ 
ters  in  the  Muss.  Hist. 
Coll.,  Series  3,  vol,  ix. 
and  Series  4,  vol.  vii., 
refer  frequently  to 
theDownings.  1st  da. 


:.  .  .  ?  da.  of  Bel¬ 
lamy  ;  bur.  at  St. 
Lawrence,  Ipswich, 
1610. 


4.  William 
Downing,  4th 
son;  living  1561. 


2.  Nahomi,  2d  da.  1611. 
Benjamin,  bapt.  1593. 
Anne,  bapt.  Mar.  1595. 
Elnathan,  bur.  1609 


3.  Abigail,  3d 
da.,  wife  of 
John  Goade 
of  London, 
Merch^  and 
had  issue. 


Anne,  da.  of  Sir=j=Emmanuel  Downing  of  the  Inner= 


James  Ware  of 
Dublin,  K1, by  Mary 
da.  of  Ambrose 
Brydon  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds  ;  sis¬ 
ter  of  Sir  Jas  Ware, 
the  Irish  Anti¬ 
quary  ;  1st  w. 

I - 1 

James  Downing  went 
to  New  England,  1640; 
stated  to  have  lived  at 
Ipswich,  Mass.,  and  to 
have  left  issue. 


Temple,  Gent. ;  bap.  at  St.  Lawrence, 
Ipswich,  12  Aug.  1585  ;  one  of  the 
most  active  men  in  the  Massa¬ 
chusetts  Colony ;  of  Salem,  N.E. 
1638-1654  ;  previously  of  London 
and  Dublin  ;  later  of  London  and 
Edinburgh,  where  he  died  circa 
1660. 


Lucy,  da.  of  Adam 
Winthrop,  Ksq.,  sis- 
terof  JohnWinthrop, 
Governor  of  Massa¬ 
chusetts  ;  b.  9  Jan. 
1600  ;  mar.  at  Gro¬ 
ton,  Suffolk,  10  Apr. 
1622  ;  d.  19  April 
1679,  2d  w. 


Mary,  eld.  da.  went  to  Susan 
NewEtig.1633;  lstw.  went  to 
of  Anthony  Stoddard  NewEng. 
of  Boston;  d.  16  June  1633 ;  liv- 
1647,  leaving  issue.  ing!638. 


1.  Lucy,  m.  circa  1649  Wm.  Nor-  Dorcas,  b.  atSa- 

ton  of  Ipswich,  Mass,  and  had  lem  ;  probably 

issue  inter  al.  Rev.  John  Norton  of  d.  young. 
Hingham  ;  she  died  5  Feb.  1698. 


Joseph  Downing. 
Rector  of  St.  Ste¬ 
phens,  Ipswich,  in 
1 626  ;  of  Layer  Mar- 
ney,  co.  Essex,  1628; 
cited  1635  before 
Court  of  High  Com¬ 
mission.  =F 


Joshua  Downing=j=Grace,  sister 


of  Chatham,  Kent, 
one  of  the  Com¬ 
missioners  of  the 
Navy  and  J.P.  for 
Kent  ;  Will  1  Jan. 
1629;  prob‘  26 
Mar. 


of  Kenrick 
Edisbury  of 
Chatham, 
Surveyor  of 
the  Navy. 


Abigail,  bapt.  Rebecca,  bapt. 
1617.  1623  ;  bur,  at  Ips- 

—  wich  1625. 

Samuel,  bapt.  — 

1620.  Dorcas,  bapt.  1626. 


Joshua  Downing,  un¬ 
der  age  1629;  ob.utim. 
1634  ;  Adm.  23  May 
1634  to  Martha  Edis¬ 
bury,  his  sister. 


Martha,  only  da.  ;  hr. 
to  her  brother  ;  mar. 
John  Edisbury,  eld.  s. 
of  Kenrick  Edisbury, 
her  uncle. 


Anne,  bapt.  at  St.  Brides,  Fleet  St.,  1 2  April 
1633  ;  m.  1st  1656  Capt.  Joseph  Gardner 
who  was  killed  in  King  Philip’s  war  ;  and  2d 
1676  Simon  Bradstreet,  Gov.  of  Massa¬ 
chusetts,  2d  w.  ;  she  d.  s.p.  1713. 


3.  Martha  mar.  circa  1659  Capt. 
Peters  and  had  issue  a  son  John 
Peters  and  a  da.,  Lucy  Spicer, 
devisees  of  their  uncle,  Sir  G, 
Downing. 


Sir  George  Downing  of  East  Hatley  and  Gam-- 
lingay,  co.  Cambr.  ;  b.  in  Dublin  circa  1624  ; 
educated  in  New  Eng.,  A.B.  Harvard  1644  ; 
Scout-Master  General  of  the  Pari.  Army ;  Min¬ 
ister  to  Holland  under  Cromwell  and  Chas.  II. ; 
Sec.  to  the  Treasury,  &c.  ;  cr.  Baronet  1663  ; 
Will  P.C.C.  139  Hare,  24  Aug.  1083  ;  prob.  19 
July  1684;  refers  tobuildingof  DowningStreet, 
Westminster.  Bur.  in  Croyden  Ch.  Cambr. 


1.  Frances,  mar.  to  3.  Lucy,  mar.  to  Sir 
John  Cotton,  Esq.,  son  Richard  Bulkley  of 
and  heir  of  Sir  John  Oldbarr.n  in  Ire- 
Cotton,  Bart.  Le  Neve,  land,  Bart.  Le 
She  ob.  1681,  leaving  Neve.  Mar.  1685. 
issue.  Comb.  1  'istn.  Davy. 


=Frances,  4th  da. 
of  Sir  Wm. 
Howard  and 
sister  of  Charles, 
1st  Earl  of  Car¬ 
lisle;  d.  before 
1683  ;  bur.  in 
Croy  denChurcli . 


Joshua.,  bapt.  at  St. 
Brides,  Fleet  St.,  1627; 
at  Barbadoes  1648  ; 
Collector  at  Glasgow 
1658  ;  m.  circa  1657  ; 
supposed  father  of 
Joshua  Downing,  ne¬ 
phew  to  Sir  George 
Downing  1683. 


- 1 — i - 

Robert  Downing, 
bapt.  at  St.  Brides, 
Fleet  St.,  24  Mar. 
162|  ;  at  Colchester 
July  1646  ;  living 
1651. 

Adam,  d.  young. 


John  Downing,  bapt. 
at  Salem  1  Mar.  1640  ; 
stated  to  have  been  of 
Nevis,  and  to  have  d. 
at  Boston  1694  leaving 
a  son  Nathaniel ;  of  this 
no  proof. 


- ! - 1 - - - H . 

2  Philadelphia,  mar.  in  West-  5.  Anne,unm.  1693,  Le  Neve.  2.  William  Downing,  2d  son  ; 
minster  Abbey  to  Sir  Henry  Mar.  Francis  Pengelly  of  b.  1663;  “unm.  1693,”  Le 
Pickering  of  Whaddon,  co.  Whitchurch,  com.  Devon,  Neve.  Ob.  s  p.  ;  bur.  at 
Camb.,  Bart.  Le  Neve.  She  Esq.  She  ob.  23  Nov.  St.  James’  Ch.,  Bury  St. 
ob.  8  Mar.  1676.  Daiy.  1702.  M.I.  in  Whitchurch  Edmunds,  25  July  1704. 

Ch. 


1.  Sir  George  Downing  of=pKatherine,  da.  of  3.  Charles  Downing,  3d  son, Sarah,  da.  and  coh.  of  Jacob  Mary  Downing  “unmar. 


Gamlingay,  co.  Cambr.  2d 
Bart.  One  of  the  Tellers 
of  Exchequer  till  King 
James  left  England.  Le 
Neve.  Died  1711. 


Cecil,  Earl  of 
Salisbury.  She 
died  circa  1688.  Le 
Neve. 


of  Bury  St.  Edmunds  “  un¬ 
mar.  1693,”  Le  Neve  ;  m.  be¬ 
fore  1696.  Comptroller  of 
the  Customs.  Lands  at  Salem, 
N.E.  ;  d.  15  Ap.  1740. 


Garrad,  Esq.,  s.  and  h  of  Sir  1693,”  Le  Neve;  m. 
Thos.  Garrad  of  Langford,  Bart.  Thomas  Barnardiston, 
Le  Neve.  She  d.  20  Oct.  1742,  Esq.  of  Bury  St.  Ed- 
set.  63  ;  bur  at  St.  James,  Bury  monds  ;  d.  1728,  set.  57. 
St.  Edmunds.  =f 


SirGeorgeDowning  of  Gam-=Mary,  da,  of  Sir 
lingav,  3rd  Bait.,  8  years  Wm.Forester.Knt. 
old  1693,  Le  Neve  ;  M.P.  for  of  the  Green  Cloth; 
Dunwicli.  By  will  proved  separated  from 
1749  he  founded  Downing  husb.  by  Act  of 
Coll.  Cambridge,  failing  is-  Pari..  Le  Neve. 
sue  of  his  near  kindred  ;  Bur.  2  Aug.  1734, 


Sarah  Down-  Sir  Jacob  Garrard— Margaret,  da.  of=Admiral  Sir  Thos.  Barnar- 
ing,  a  child,  Downing,  4th  Bart.,  the  Rev.  .  .  .  Geo.  Bowyer,  diston.  Esq., 

bur.  at  St.  only  son;  M.P.  for  Price  curate  at  Bart.,  2d  hus-  Sergt.-at-Law ; 

James,  Bury  Dunwich  ;  mar.  17  Barrington  ;  d.  band ;  mar.  at  hr.  presumptive 

St.  Edmunds,  May  1750  ;  d.  6  Feb.  18  Sept.  1778  ;  Putney,  Nov.  11  to  Sir  G.  Down- 

11  Mar.  1706.  1764  s  p.  ;  cousin  and  bur.  at  Croyden,  1768;  ob.  6  Dec.  ing  ;  ob.  s.p. 


ob.  s.p. 


at  Hampton. 


heir  to  Sir  George  Cambr.,  s.p. 
Downing. 


1799. 


1752. 


o- 


i 


Will  of  Jol)tt  Hillfs  0f  Hontron,  1579. 

25  Marche  1579.  John  Hilles  Citizen  and  Skynner  of  London.  To  be  buried  in  the  churche 
of  St.  Mary  Newington  in  the  Countie  of  Surrye  where  I  now  lye  sick.  To  Anne  my  wife  whome 
I  make  full  executrix  all  the  new  rentts  in  the  parrishe  of  St.  Saviours  Sowthwark  and  for  so  beinge 
tyme  as  the  lease  of  my  howse  in  Cornehill  shall  continue,  revertion  to  Rowlande  Rayelton  my 
sonne.  My  howse  at  Newington  to  my  sonne  Rowlande  and  to  Tomasyn  his  wief.  To  William 
Stanton  my  wives  sonne  twentie  poundes  and  a  silver  bowle.  To  Peter  Hilles  my  brother  dwelling 
in  Assenton  in  Suffolk  my  farme  in  Meapom  in  Kentt  payeing  vnto  his  children  tenn  poundes  a 
peece  being  three  daughters  and  ij  sonnes,  and  after  the  decease  of  my  said  brother  Peter  to  Willm] 
Hilles  his  sonne  and  heire  to  hym  and  his  heyres  for  ever.  To  Johan  Huntt  my  sister  sonnes 
daughter  the  fower  houses  that  are  my  tenements  in  Kent  Streete  and  the  three  howses  tenements 
in  Newington  Towne  she  to  pay  hir  uncle  Abraham  Drayner  the  whole  rentt  for  the  first  yere.  To 
Mr  Bateman  for  my  funerall  sermon  xxs.  My  wife  full  executrix  and  hir  two  sonnes  Rowlande  and 
Willm  to  be  her  overseers.  Probate  24  April  1579  Agnets,  relce  &  ex\ 

Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  15  Bakon. 


SEill  of  William  Hilks  of  Holton,  1597- 

I  Willm  Hilles  of  Holton  in  the  Countye  of  Suffolk,  yeoman,  .  .  .  giue  to  my  two  daughters 
Johne  Hilles  &  Elizabeth  Hilles  all  those  my  free  lands  in  Meapim  in  the  county  of  Kent  now  in 
the  occupation  of  Martyne  Blisse  to  them  and  to  their  heirs  for  ever.  To  Johne  my  wieff  my  lease 
and  ferine  in  Holton  Hall,  also  all  moueable  goods  now  upon  ferme  ...  To  William  my  sonne  fortye 
pounds  at  age  of  foure  &  twentye.  To  Johne  my  daur  thirtye  poundes  at  one  &  twentye.  To 
Elizabeth  my  daur  thirtye  pounds  at  one  &  twentye.  If  any  of  my  children  die  before  legacies 
become  due,  survivors  to  share  equally.  To  Joane  my  wieff  all  household  stuff  tfc  other  goods,  whom 
I  appoint  executrix ;  she  to  enter  into  a  bond  before  probate  of  will  within  two  months  to  discharge 
debts  unto  Peter  Hilles  my  father  &  John  Browne  my  brother  in  law.  To  the  said  John  Browne 
five  pounds.  Bequests  to  Robt.  Snelling,  Edmund  Barker,  John  Gosnold,  Widdowe  Bunnett,  Thomas 
Pell,  Widdowe  Newman,  Thos.  Willes,  Widdow  Buirkes ;  to  every  one  lyke  portions.  To  Elizabeth 
Neale  &  Margrett  Shoppe  my  servants  eyther  of  them  x9.  Witnesses  William  Hilles,  Adam  Winthrop, 
William  Smith,  Peter  Hilles.  Probate  at  Ipswich,  Sept.  20th  1597.  Archdeaconry  of  Suffolk. 


HILLES  OF  HOLTON. 


101 


Will  of  loan  Utlks  of  Holtou,  1597- 

In  the  name  of  God  Amen.  The  ffifte  daye  of  Septemb1  An0  Dni  one  thowsand  fyve  hundreth 

nynetye  seaven,  and  in  the  nyne  and  thirtye  yere  of  the  Reygne  of  o<j  Sovereigne  Ladye  Queene 

Elizabethe,  I  Johane  Hilles,  latelye  the  wief  of  Willm  Hilles  of  Holton  in  the  Cownty  of  Suff. 
deceased  and  executrix  of  the  last  will  and  testament  of  my  sayd  housband,  the  woh  will  and 

testament  I  doe  allowe  and  have  put  in  execution  by  administring  of  the  goodes  and  cattells  of  my 

sayd  late  housband,  not  wthstanding  I  have  not  prowed  the  same  according  to  the  Lawes  Ecclesias- 
ticall  of  this  Relme,  being  nowe  visited  w‘  sicknes,  not  knowing  howe  soone  the  Lord  will  take  me 
out  of  this  lief,  doe  therefore  make  and  ordayne  this  my  last  will  and  testament  in  maner  and 
forme  hollowing,  ffirst  I  comend  my  sowle  to  god  the  father,  god  the  sone  and  god  the  holye 
ghost,  in  whose  name  I  was  baptised,  and  by  whose  onelye  mercye  through  the  Death  and  passion 
of  my  Lord  and  saviour  Jhesus  Christ  I  hope  to  be  saved,  ffirst  and  before  all  thinges  I  will  and 
my  mynd  is  that  all  such  debtes  and  duties  wcl‘  I  or  my  sayd  late  housband  doe  or  did  owe  to  anye 
pson  or  psons  be  trulye  payd  and  discharged,  and  lykewise  that  all  such  guiftes,  bequestes  and 
legacies  contayned  and  gyven  in  my  sayd  late  liousbands  last  will  and  testament  be  faythfullye  and 
dulye  pformed  and  fullfilled  according  to  the  true  intent  and  meaning  thereof.  Item  I  gyve  vnto 
Joane  and  Elisabeth  my  two  daughters  and  to  evarye  one  of  them  Thirtye  pownds  of  Lawfull 
Englishe  monye  to  be  payd  to  them  or  to  the  suruivour  of  them  at  the  daye  of  ther  severall 
marryages,  or  at  there  severall  ages  of  xxi  yeres  if  they  be  not  marryed  before  they  come  to  that 
age.  Item  gyve  to  Willm  Hilles  my  sone  ffortye  powndes  of  lawfull  Englishe  monye  to  be  payd  to 
him  at  the  age  of  xxi  yeres.  And  if  it  shall  happen  anye  of  my  sayd  children  to  dye  before  his 
or  her  legacye  be  due  to  be  payd,  that  then  the  survivor  of  them  shall  have  the  portion  or  portions 
of  him  or  her  so  deceasing.  Item  I  give  to  my  sayd  two  dawghters  all  my  lynnen  and  pewter  to 
be  delyvered  to  my  Sister  Weston  for  there  vse  vntill  they  come  to  ther  severall  ages  of  xxi  yeres 
and  then  to  be  devyded  equiallye  betwen  them.  Also  I  gyve  vnto  my  sayd  dawghters  two  of  my 

lesser  chestes.  And  I  gyve  to  my  dawghter  Johane  my  malt  quarnes.  The  residue  of  all  my 

Implementes  and  howshowld  stuffe  wth  the  horse  mill  except  my  corne,  cattell  and  things  belonging  to 
housbandrye  I  gyve  to  Willm  my  sone.  and  I  doe  gyve  to  my  sayd  sone  eleven  of  the  last  yeres  of 
my  lease  w=h  I  have  to  Howlton  hall  of  the  grant  and  devise  of  Mr  Willm  Mannocke  esquyre.  Item 
I  gyve  viij  bushells  of  Rye  viij  Bushells  of  Barlye  to  be  distributed  among  the  poore  people  of  the 
pishe  of  Howlton  aforesayd  by  the  discretion  of  my  executoj  wfiin  one  monthe  after  my  death.  Item 
I  gyve  to  everye  one  of  my  god  children  vs  and  to  Elisabeth  Neale  I  gyve  my  beste  petticoate. 

Item  I  gyve  to  John  Turner  my  servant  xxs  to  John  Neale  xl3  and  to  George  Neale  xs  and  to 

Nicholas  Reve  x8  and  to  Edmond  Neale  vs  and  to  Henrye  Hadlock  xvs  to  Margrett  Shoppe  v8.  Item 
I  gyve  to  Avice  Prophett  the  wief  of  Tobias  Prophett,  my  cloke  girtle  and  a  peticote  cloth  of  the 
russett  wooll  wch  is  at  owld  Goslinges.  Item  I  gyve  to  Roger  Aneward  xx8.  Also  I  forgyve  to 
John  Gosling  all  the  monye  that  he  dothe  owe  vnto  me.  And  for  the  better  governing  of  my  two 
dawghters  and  cf  their  portions  gyven  vnto  them  by  there  father  and  me,  I  doe  hartelye  praye 
and  desyre  my  brother  in  lawe  Mr  Roger  Weston  and  my  sister  his  wief  to  take  the  tuition  and 
care  of  them  and  to  maynetayne  them  vntill  there  portions  be  due  to  be  payd  vnto  them  if  they 
be  not  marryed  before.  Also  I  will  that  my  executor  hereafter  named  shall  have  the  keping  and 
custodye  of  all  those  goodes  and  howsehowld  stuffe  wch  I  have  before  gyven  to  Willm  my  sone  in 
this  my  last  will  and  testament  vntill  he  come  to  the  age  of  xxij,ie  yers.  The  residue  of  my  goodes 


102 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


and  cattalles  vnbequeathed  I  doe  gyve  to  Roger  Weston  and  Adam  Winthorpe  my  brothers  in  lawe 
whome  I  doe  nominate  and  appoynte  the  Executors  of  this  my  last  will  and  testament.  In  wittnes 
whereof  I  have  declared  the  same  to  be  my  last  will  the  daye  and  yere  abovewritten  in  the  prsence 
of  thes  psons  herevnder  named  as  wittnesses  to  the  same.  The  marke  of  Johane  Hilles.  John 
Neale.  John  Turner. 

Probatum  fuit  .  .  .  apud  Gipwicu9  .  .  .  vicesimo  die  .  .  .  Septembris  aho  dni  1597.  Et 
comissu  fuit  admi9straco  bonoru9  ec  Adamo  Winthrop  gen9  vni  executorr  .  .  .  Reservata  potestate 
consimilem  administraticte  comittend  Rogero  Weston  altero  executoru9  cu9  venerit  in  Juris  forma  .  .  . 

Archd.  Suff.,  Book  No.  36,  1596-7. 

The  Chancery  Proceedings  in  Wynthropp  c  Wynthrop,  James  1st,  B.  &  A.,  W.  12,  41,  Aa 
1603,  relate  to  the  final  settlement  of  the  Hilles  estates  and  throw  much  light  upon  the  genealogy 
of  that  family. 


tiles  of 


John  Hyllis  or  Hilles  of  Assington  in  co.  Suffolk,  made  Will  Arch.  Sudb.  24  Nov.  1547  ;  names-j- 
sons  John  and  Peter  and  dau.  Joan  ;  leaves  crucifix  to  John’s  wife  ;  Probate  30  Dec.  1547. 


I - 

.  .  .  ux.  .  .  .  John 
Hilles  devised  A0 
1579  houses  in 
KentStreet  and  in 
Newington,  co. 
Surrey,  to  her 
grand-dau.,  Johan 
Hunt. 


John  Hilles,  Citizen  and  Skinner  of  London,  in=Annes  to  whom 
Will  P.C.C.  15  Bakon,  25  March  1579,  devises 
capital  messuage  in  Meopham,  co.  Kent,  to 
Peter  Hilles,  his  brother  ;  names  “  son  ”  Row¬ 
land  Rayelton  and  Thomasyn  his  wife  ;  and 
desires  to  be  buried  in  the  church  of  St.  Mary, 

Newington,  Surrey  ;  Probate  24  April  1579  ; 
ob.  s.p. 


John  Hilles  de¬ 

Stan¬ 

Rayel¬ 

vised  his  rents 

ton, 

ton, 

in  St.  Saviour’s, 

former 

former 

Southw'ark, 

hus¬ 

hus¬ 

lease  of  house  in 

band. 

band. 

Cornhill,  &c.,  A0 

1579. 

Peter  Hilles  of  Assing- 
ton,co.  Suffolk.yeoman, 
1579,  afterwards  of 
Holton;  Will  P.C.C.  4 
Huddlestone,  21  Dec. 
1603;  prob.  9  Jan. 1606; 
makes  Parnell,  his  wife, 
executrix  ;  names  son- 
in-law,  John  Browne. 


William  Stanton,  devisee  of  his  stepfather,  John  Hilles,  1579.  Rowland  Rayelton,  1579. 


i — i — i - 

Tliree  daughters 
devisees  of  their 
uncle,  John  Hilles, 
1579,  one  of  whom 
was  wife  of  John 
Browne,  1597- 
1603. 


William  Hilles  of  Holton,  co.  Suffolk,1 
yeoman  ;  died  4  Aug.  1597  (see  Adam 
Winthrop' s  Diary).  Will  Arch.  Suff. 

proved  20  Sept.  1597  ;  devised  lands  in 
Meopham,  co.  Kent,  to  his  daughters ; 
devisee  of  John  Hilles,  his  uncle,  1579  ; 
names  John  Browne,  his  brother-in-law. 


=Joane,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Henry  Browne 
of  Edwardstone,  co.  Suff.,  and  sister  of 
Anne  Browne  who  mar.  Adam  Winthrop 
of  Groton  ;  made  Will  Arch.  Suff.  5  Sep. 
1597  as  Johan  Hilles  of  Holton, w°;  prob.  20 
Dec.  1597  ;  inherited  lands  in  Polsted, 
Suffolk,  from  her  father. 


- 1 - 

.  .  .  Hilles,  second 
son,  named  1579  in 
his  uncle’s  will  ;  ap¬ 
parently  dead  sans 
issue  in  1603. 


William  Hilles  of  Holtorn 
Hall,  co.  Suffolk,  where 
he  took  up  his  abode  30 
Sept.  1602  ;  named  in 
Adam  Winthrop' &  Diary, 
1.602—1605. 


:Elizabeth  Gibson ; 
her  marriage  1 5 
Jan.  1600  is  noted 
in  Adam  Win- 
throp's  Diary. 


Joan  Hilles  devisee=j=Adam  Winthrop,  Citizen  and  Mer- 


of  Henry  Browne, 
her  grandfather  ; 
married  3  Oct.  1599; 
of  Desertsergis,  co. 
Cork,  widow,  1637. 


chant  Tailor  of  London  ;  plaintiff 
in  Winthrop  c.  Winthrop,  1603 
[Jas.  I.  B.  &  A.]  ;  afterwards  of 
Bandon  in  Ireland,  where  he  died 
1634. 


Elizabeth  Hilles,  liv¬ 
ing  1603.  when 
moiety  of  reversion 
of  the  lands  in  Meo¬ 
pham  was  due  to  her. 
Winthrop c.  Winthrop 


Peter  Hilles,  born  at  Holton, 
18  Oct.  1603  ;  devisee  ot  Peter 
Hilles  his  great  grandfather. 


John  Hilles,  baptized 
24Julyl605.  (S eeAdam 
Winthrop' s  Diary. 


John  Winthrop,  bapt.  in  London, 
21  Aug.  1603  ;  believed  to  have 
died  young. 


Elizabeth  Winthrop,  unmarried 
in  1637,  when  she  was  co-admin¬ 
istrator  of  her  father’s  estate. 


ffUmmng  of  Jictigmg. 


Armorial  tarings. 

Munnings  (or  Monyns),  B.  a  shield  (or  inescocheon)  Arg.  within  an  orle  of  ( J> )  incresents  Or, 
quartered  with  Or,  on  a  pile  in  point  between  an  increscent  and  a  decrescent  (])([)  G.,  a  crescent 
(\&)  of  the  first. 

This  family  is  very  antient.  They  were  of  Monkes  Ely  and  of  Nedging,  but  have  long  since 
almost  wome  out.  One  of  that  family  ( but  of  no  very  great  ranke)  lived  in  Bury  St.  Edmonds  in 
the  time  of  K.  Charles ;  and  William  Munnings,  clarke,  is  now  rector  of  Preston,  sonne  of  Humfrey 
Munnings,  clarke,  minister  of  Brettenham,  who  was  one  of  the  most  grave,  learned  and  pious  ministers  of 
this  County.  The  most  eminent  place  in  Preston  church  is  given  to  the  coat  of  this  family ;  yet  I  knoive 

none  of  any  very  great  estate  of  that  name  in  Suff:  this  yeave  1659. 

So  writes  Candler  in  his  list  (“  Tanner  MS.”  Lib.  Bodleian,  226)  of  “  The  names  and  armes 
of  sundry  of  the  gentlemen  of  chief est  account  in  the  County  of  Sufi’:  as  their  coates  were  set  vp 

by  Robert  Reice  Esq3  (a  most  accomplisht  gentleman)  in  the  church  windowes  of  Preston  in  Sufi., 

about  the  latter  end  of  the  reigne  of  K.  James  or  the  beginning  of  the  reigne  of  K.  Charles.”  Rice, 
who  spelt  his  name  in  various  ways, — Reice,  Ryce  and  Ryece — was  a  man  of  comfortable  fortune, 
who,  having  no  children,  took  to  studying  the  family  antiquities  of  his  neighbourhood.  “The  will 
of  man,”  he  writes,  “hath  found  out  the  means  to  perpetuate  the  Reverend  memory  of  his  honor¬ 
able  friends  departed,  by  erecting  unto  them  the  lively  counterfeiting  resemblances,  effigies,  pyramids, 
epitaphs  and  monuments,  as  doth  plentifully  appear  in  our  churches.”  Extending  this  idea,  he  began 
to  decorate  the  church  of  his  own  parish  in  heraldic  fashion.  He  “  set  up  the  Royall  armes  of 
England  in  a  faire  table,”  and  then  proceeded  to  depict  the  escutcheons  of  the  gentry  around  him 
on  its  walls  and  windows.  These  he  has  described  with  much  quaintness  in  his  “  Breviary  of 
Suffolk,”  a  charming  account  of  the  county  which  still  exists  amongst  the  Jermyn  MSS.  “  Mooning,” 
for  so  he  writes  the  word,  bore  ‘  ‘  Qrtly,  1  &  4,  An  inset  escocheon  or,  betwn  8  Turkish  Moons 
incresents  O  J  2  <fc  3,  0>  a  crescent  O  on  a  pile  in  point,  betw.  an  increscent  and  a  decrescent  G.” 

Amongst  the  many  shields  on  his  tombstone  in  the  chancel  is  Rice,  quartering  Strangman. 
and  impaling  “Mouning,  an  escocheon  betw.  9  increscents,  4,  2,  2,  1.” 

Many  of  these  shields  were  still  in  existence  when  Davy  visited  Preston  in  the  earlier  part 
of  the  present  century.  Indeed  Rice  took  some  care  that  they  should  not  fade  too  rapidly,  for  in 
his  will  dated  11  Feb.  1638  [P.C.C.  36  Harvey]  he  bequeathed  to  “William  Mills  of  Lanham,  painter 


104 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


and  glazier,  forty  shillings,  with  all  my  boxes  of  Painting  Colours,  that  he  do  from  time  to  time 
renew  and  amend,  as  need  shall  require,  the  decays  of  colours,  words,  letters,  compartments  ar.d 
forms  of  those  tables,  writings  and  inscriptions,  which  he  hath  at  any  time  made  for  me,  as  they 
are  fixed  in  the  Parish  church  or  chancell  of  Preston  aforesaid.”  It  is  clear  Rice  thought  much  of 
his  Munning  descent.  He  makes  especial  mention  of  his  Munning  kinsmen  in  his  will : — “  To  my 
cousin  Mr  William  Munninge,  late  resident  at  Sir  Henry  Mildmayes  in  the  County  of  Essex  ”  (who 
also  calls  him  “  cousin  ”  in  his  turn1).  “  More,  I  give  unto  him  my  copyhold  meadow  in  Monkes 
Illigh,  commonly  called  Skipp’s  meadow,  and  now  in  the  occupation  of  Katherine  Munninge,  widow  ; 
he  to  sell  it  and  divide  the  proceeds  between  three  of  his  sisters,  Ann,  Katherine  and  Ellen  Mun- 
niug,  so  as  one  half  shall  go  to  Anne  Munninge,  aged,  lame  and  impotent,  and  the  other  half  to 
Katherine  and  Ellen.  To  Thomas  Munning,  sometime  my  seivant.  To  my  cousins  Rice  Munning 
and  his  sister  the  wife  of  Francis  Lucas.”  For  many  interesting  lettes  from  Robert  Rice  to  Gov. 
John  Winthrop,  see  Vol.  i.  of  the  latter’s  “  Life  and  Letters,”  and  Yol.  vi.  of  the  Fourth  Series  of  the 
“  Massachusetts  Historical  Society’s  Collections.” 


SSttU  of  JHmttuttj,  1521, 

In  the  yere  of  our  Lord  god  m  v°  xxi  the  xvi  daie  of  October,  I  Henry  Munyng  of  Nedgynge  in 
the  diocese  of  Norwiche,  hoole  being  in  mynde  and  of  good  remembraunce,  thankis  be  to  Jhu  my 

saviour,  ordeyne  my  testament  and  laste  will  in  maner  and  forme  folouring.  I  bequeth  my  soule  to 

allmighty  god  my  maker  and  Redemer,  to  his  mother  and  virgin  our  lady  seynt  Mary,  and  to  all 
the  hooly  company  of  seyntis  in  heveh.  To  the  making  of  a  Roode  lofte  in  the  churche  of 
Nedginge  iiju  via  viijd.  To  the  aulter  of  Semer  xs.  To  the  iij  houses  of  friers  in  Ypiswiche,  to 
euery  of  the  said  houses  x8,  ther  to  haue  in  euery  of  the  said  placis  a  trentall  of  xxx  massis,  To  the 

friers  of  Clare  in  like  maner  xe.  I  will  that  one  honeste  preste  to  singe  for  my  soule  and  my 

frendis  soulis  in  the  churche  of  Nedginge  the  terme  of  one  hole  yer,  and  he  for  to  haue  for  his 
stipende  viu.  I  bequethe  to  the  reparacion  of  Semer  brige  xls.  To  Margaret  my  wif  all  housis  and 
landis  in  Leyhrh  the  terme  of  hir  lif,  And  after  hir  decease  I  will  said  housis  &  landis  remayue 
vnto  Thomas  Munyng  my  sonne.  To  Robert  Rice  and  his  wif  xh.  To  Elisabtthe  Rice  x11  to  be 
paide  to  hir  in  the  daie  of  hir  mariage.  And  if  the  said  Elisabeth  die  or  she  be  maried,  then  I 
will  the  said  x1'  remayne  vnto  the  next  doughter  of  the  said  Robert  Rice  and  Agnes  his  wif.  To 

the  said  Margret  my  wif  my  house  in  Semer  called  Wodsalis,  she  to  haue  that  fee  simple  to  hir,  hir 

heires  and  assignes,  for  euer.  I  bequethe  to  Robert  Rice  my  house,  w‘  the  landis  therto  leyde, 
lying  and  stonding  in  Byston,  with  condicion  that  said  Robert  shall  paye  among  iiij  of  the 

child  erne  of  his  and  Agnes  his  wif  that  now  is  xx  marcs.  To  Thomas  Munyng  my  sone  the 

residue  of  my  housis,  landis,  medowes,  &c.  for  ever.  An  the  residue  of  my  goodis  I  put  them  holy 
to  the  disposicion  of  mvne  executors  to  disspose  them  in  dedis  of  charite  as  thei  shall  thinke  most 
plesure  to  god  and  for  the  wele  of  my  soule.  I  make  my  executours  to  be  Margret  my  wif,  Thomas 
Munyng  and  Robert  Rice,  they  to  bringe  my  body  honestly  to  the  erthe.  I  ordeyn  Thomas  Lynde 
of  Bylston  to  be  suparvisor,  and  I  give  hym  for  his  labour  xlB.  Probatum  xxix  Novembris  1521. 
Et  comissa  fuit  admistraoio  Margarete  Relicte  et  Thome  Munyng  executoribus. 

P.C.C.  18  Maynwaryug. 


1  See  his  will  at  p.  45. 


MUNNING  OF  NUDGING. 


105 


ffitill  of  Sljomas  Jitnnmng,  1556. 

Thomas  Munnynge  of  Nedgynge,  gentleman,  7  Oct.,  3  &,  4,  P.  &  M.  1556.  To  be  buried  in 
the  church  of  or  Lady  of  Nedginge.  To  Robert  my  son  my  lands  in  Layham,  Hadley  &  Semr  in 
Suffolk.  To  Thomas  my  son  my  lease  of  Nedging  hall  by  Indre  of  my  Lord  of  Suffolk.  Lands 
to  Alyce  my  wife  for  sixteen  years  for  the  education  of  my  children.  To  George  my  son  copyholds 
tkc.  in  Nedging.  Humfrye  my  son  nut  to  trouble  my  wife,  but  to  give  her  full  discharge  respecting 
his  farm  at  Hasilwoode.  Silver  goblets  etc  ;  one  of  whichc  was  my  father  in  lawe  William  Rysbyes. 
To  Margaret  Cryspe  my  daughter  a  ringe,  om  e  her  mothers.  To  Xpyane  Tomsane  my  daughter  a 
ringe  of  gold  &c.  To  Bridget  my  daughter  when  she  marries.  Elizabeth  Osmunde  my  wyves 
daughter.  To  Robert  Oder  my  sone  in  law,  my  bedfelie  staffe  wch  was  Kynge  Henrye  the  viijth. 
To  Robert  my  son  at  his  age  of  two  and  twenty  yeares.  Thomas  my  son  at  his  age  of  two  and 
twenty.  George  my  son  at  his  age  of  two  and  twenty.  Wyfe  sole  executrix.  Nephew  and  godson 
Robt  Ryce  of  Moncks  Yllye,  Gent,  to  be  supervisor.  Probate  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  28  May  1 557. 

Arch.  Sudb. 


ffitill  of  ffiltjabct!)  JHuitiung,  1624- 

Elizabeth  Munninge  of  Brettenham  in  the  countie  of  Suffolk,  widow  of  Humfrey  Mvnninge, 
clarke,  Mr  of  the  said  pishe,  8  March  1624.  To  Elizabeth  my  daughter,  wife  of  George  Salter. 
To  Richard,  Theophilus,  and  William  Mvninge  my  sonnes,  to  either  of  them  fyve  pounds  a  piece. 
To  Anne  Mvninge  my  daughter  £10.  To  Ellen  Mvninge,  Humfrey  Mvninge,  Abigale  Mvninge, 
Katheren  Mvninge,  and  to  Leonard  Mvninge  my  children,  to  either  of  them  £18  when  they 
shall  attaine  the  age  of  twenty  one  yeares  or  marry,  whichever  first  shall  happen.  William 
Chaplyn  of  Hitcham  and  Henrie  Munninge  my  brother  in  law  whom  I  appoint  executors  to  sell 
all  my  lands  and  tenements  in  Brettenham  and  Bildston  according  to  the  last  will  of  my  wel- 
beloved  husband  :  the  overplus  to  be  divided  equally  amongst  all  my  children.  Probat  17  Oct. 
1631.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  Column,  fo.  68lj. 

Humphrey  Munning  compounded  for  his  First  Fruits  as  Rector  of  Brettenham  on  the  22d 
October  1597,  his  suerties  being  Joshua  Winthrop  of  the  parish  of  St.  Michaels  le  Querne,  London, 
and  Adam  Winthrop  of  St.  Brides,  Fleet  Street. 

The  marriage  of  George  Salter  with  “  my  Cosin  Muninge’s  eldest  daughter  ”  is  noted  in 
‘Adam  Winthrop’s  Diary,”  under  29  Oct.  1617. 


Mill  af  irmii  Jltunmng,  1657- 

Henry  Mouning  of  Elveden,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.  1  Nov.  1657.  To  Elizabeth  my  wife  over 
and  above  joynture.  To  John  Mouninge  son  of  said  Elizabeth  and  me  fifty  pounds  at  his  age 
of  four  and  twenty  yeares,  and  my  houses  in  Bury  St.  Edmunds  :  in  default  of  issue  remainder 
to  James  Mouninge  my  son.  To  said  James  one  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  at  his  age  of  twenty 
four.  To  Henry  my  son  ;  Thomas  my  son  ;  Mary  my  daughter  wife  of  John  Holmes,  e'erke  ; 
my  other  four  daughters  Anne,  Magdalen,  Elizabeth  and  Susan,  when  twenty  one.  Children  by 
Magdalen  my  first  wife.  Rest  of  my  lands  to  William  Mouninge  my  eldest  son ;  he  to  be  sole 
executor.  Henry  Mouninge  my  second  son.  My  aunt  Howlett  of  Elden.  Probat  24  Jan.  1658. 
Oomissio  7  Junij  1692  Thome  Mouninge  filnl  &  legit  ult  volunt  Hen  Mouninge  nup  de  Elveden 

com.  Suff.  non  admin.  Willmo  Mouninge  filio  &  exec.  Cur.  Prerog.  Cant.  31  Pell. 

P 


I  Of) 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


jfflunmng  of  §?uffolfi.  $bt>.  itfli?.  5528. 

The  woorthie  X*  auncient  Descent  of  Munninges  of  Com:  Suff:  Deduced  from  &  Before  ye  tyme  of  Kinge 

lien:  ye  5>h  A  n°  Dhi:  llglo  vnto  theise  Dayes  in  Ano  1615. 


Gilbert  de  Mvnnines  Issue  d’  vne  maison  auncient  de  Poictiers  en  Frauncc.^C’harlotta  sa  femme. 


Olyver  de  Mvnnines  2d  sonne  taken  prysonner  At  ye  battell  of 
Agincorte  wth  his  broth1'  Anthonye  and.  dyws yen' :  of  ffraunce 
Came  into  Englande  in  ye  3d  yeare  of  Kinge  Hen':  ye  5th 
an°  D'ni:  If  15  haveing  sworne  fealtye  to  ye  Kinge  and 
p'miseinq  to  serve  faythfully  vnder  him  in  all  his  frenche 
warres;  he  receiued  his  pardon  X  lib’tie  (venant  a  la  batteile 
portuit  en  ses  armories  vne  croisants  d’or  sur  vnepyle  en  pointe 
de  que’ lies, entre Deux  croisants addosesde  gules  en  champc  d’or.) 
He  was  after  slaync  at  ye  battell,  of  Vernoille,  in  Perche  vndr 
Kinge  Hen  :  ye  6th  in  An0  3do  ipiu’s  regni  an0  Dni' :  1)2). 
die  mar’ :  An  tnglishe  woaman  called  Isabelle.  And  had  Issue: 


Anthony  de  Moonninges  Ist  jils  :  taken  pry  sonnet  w*h  his  brother  At  ye  Battell 
of  Agincort,  was  v:tfl  many  others  brought  into  England,  where  sweareinge  to 
serve  ye  Kinge  in  all  ye  frenche  waTres,  he  was  ransomed  X  set  at  lib'ty 
(veniant  a  la  battaile  il :  portoit  en  ses  armouries  d’ azure  d  vne  escu  d’argt. 
a  I’nrle  de  neuf  Croisants  entre  lacees  d’or.)  In  ye  ~th  yeare  of  Kinge  Hen: 
ye  6‘h  Ano:  Dni:  1)28  he  served  at  ye  seige  of  Orleans  vndr  Will’ni  Dela¬ 
poole  then  Lieuetenant  of  that  seige  after  he  was  taken  prysonner  wt)l  ye  said 
Will’ m  Delapoole  Erie  of  Sufe:  At  Jargeaux  at  length  groweinye  old  haveinge 
followed  the  Erie  in  all  ye  Kinges  warres  in  ffraunce,  he  left  his  sonne 
Henry,  whom  he  had  trayned  vp,  in  his  place,  X  soe  dyed,  not  longe  after 
about  Ano :  ye  22  t of  Kinge  Hen.  ye  6th  An0  Dni:  14)3.  his  mariage  was 
vnknowr.e  but  he  lefte  one  sonne. 


Blaunche  ob.  yonge. 


Bennetta  ob.  in  her  Infancie. 


Henry  de  Moounines  followed  ye  Erie  in  his  service  of  ffraunce,  and  when  ye  Erie  w  is  now  made  Marques  of  Suffe:  he  often  employed  him  in 
sondry  busynesses  in  ffraunce,  not  longe  after  when  ye  Marques  was  made  Duke  of  Stiff.  :  for  his  evil. I  counsell  of  ye  Kinge,  teinge  in  much  disgrace, 
wt!‘  ye  state  X  Com’ons  was  banished  ye  llealme,  X  in  his  departure,  melt  by  his  enimies  at  sea,  had  his  head  cut  of  :  This  Henry  lefte  ye  frenche 
warres,  <t  see  w^drawinge  him  selfe  into  ye  countrey  to  leade  a  retyred  lyfe,  he  came  into  Suff:  where  ye  Duke  had  sundrye  possessesions  amongst 
ye.  wch  he  had  beene  often  employed,  viliere  contenting  himselfe  to  Hue  in  a  meane  condicon,  he  g  tue  himselfe  much  to  devotion,  for  ye  wch  he  visited 
often  ye  Shryne  of  St  Edmund  at  Burye ;  not  far  loom  welt  towne  he  remayned.  He  mar:  Elizab' :  ye  daur  of  Thom:  Charles  of  Kettleburrowghe, 
<0  soe  died  about  an0  ye  l'Jth  0f  Kinge  Ediv:  ye  )th  an0  Dni:  1)78.  The  Armes  of  Thom:  Charles  were  ermines  on  a  chiefe  gul:  3:  mascles  [of 

the  first]  X  lefte  Issue  2:  sonnes  X  1  daur.  =j= 

r 


- n 

Jaques  de  Moonines 
2d  sonne  ob.  vnmaried 


Gundreda  a  clau:  mar: 
to  Knighton.  Barry 
of  S  :  urgt  X  Bleat: 
on  a  canto  argt  a 
tunne  Gul. 


Jean  de  Moounines  1st  sonne  followed  John  Dela  Poole  Duke  of  Suff:  ye  sonne  of  ye  sd  Will’m  to  wch  John,  for  yt  he  X 
Henry  X  Anthony  his  Anncestors  had  doone  faythfull  service  to  ye  familie  of  ye  De/apooles,  the  said  John  Delapoole 
Duke  of  Suff:  did  lett  vnto  this  John  Moonyncs  the  Marino1'  of  Nedgeinge  hall  wtdl  some  othr  thinges  here  in  Suff:  All 
weh  after  ye  battell  of  Stoke  f elide,  where  John  Delapoole  E'le  of  Lincolne  2d  son  o)  ye  Duke,  hghteinge  against  King 
Henry  ye  7,ft  in  ye  3d  yeare  of  his  raigne  was  slayne,  ye  house  of  ye  said  Delapooles  was  Attaynted ,  And  this 
Mannor  yfh  alt  yc  Delapooles  oth1'  landes  came  to  ye  Crowne  by  Attayndu''  ;  he  mar :  Margaret  ye  daur  of  Henry 
Woodwoonle.  Barrye  of  6  :  or  X  sab:  a  canton  Gul.  :  To  this  John  Mnunines  ye  Abbot  of  Bury  made  ye  first  lease  of 
Seamour  hall  in  Suff.  [His  daughter]  Katherine  mar  to  John  ll'oovliche  Ar.1  N :  2d  dau;  mar:  toSr  Clement  Hiqham 
Kt  Baron  of  the  Exchequer.  =j= 

i - 7 - 1 

Henry  de  Mnomiines  dwelling  as  a  farmer  at  Nedgeing,  being  well  trayned  vp  in  his  youth  X-  of  comely  stature  X  com’ endable  partes,  by  reason 
yt  all  ye  Delapooles  landes  were  giuen  to  Charles  Brandon,  Viscount  Lysle,  became  knowne  to  Charles  Brandon  X  loas  enterteyned  into  his  service, 
iclioe  beinge  once  made  Duke  o  f  Suff:  ffov  ye  skyll  wcJl  ye-  said  Henry  had  in  songe  X  vmsycke,  he  made  ye  said  Henry  Superintendante  of  his 
Chappell,  X  for  yt  ye  said  Henry  was  skylfull  in  ye  frenche  tongue,  wth  good  experience  and  discretion  :  for  lmploynd  the  Duke  Imployed  ye  said 
Henry  in  sondry  messuages  into  ffraunce,  attendeinge  upon  ye  Duke  when  he  fetched  lioame  into  Englande  Mary  ye  ffraunche  Queene  in  ye  7th  yeare 
of  Kinge  Henry  ye  8th  An°  D’ni:  1515.  Alter  yt  for  his  fide! itye  X  longe  service,  he  made  vnto  Thomas,  the  son  of  ye  said  Henry.  A  lease  of 
ye  Mannor  of  Nedgeinge  hall  for  ye  tearme  of  80  yeares,  w'h  ye  said  Henry  held  by  e.op>pye  of  Corte  Rowle,  about  Ano:  29:  of  Henry  ye  Sth 
An n  D’ni:  1537  :  He  mar:  Alyce  ye  dau:  of  ..  .  Bye  of  Larenham  in  com.  Suff:  ary1  a  fesse  Blew  3:  escalloppes  d’or.  He  dyed  X  was  buryed  at 
Nedgeinge  prd  :  in  com  Suff:  prd.  =j= 

i - - - ; - 1 - 7 - - - - - 1 

N:  ye  dau:  X  heir=f=Thom:  Mounine  of  Nedgeinge  prd  son  X  heire  of:  vnto=^  Alyce  ye  dau:  of  Willm  Bysby  of  Lavenham  Agnes  mar:  to 

of  Barker  first  mhome  the  ledse  was  graunted  by  y Duke  of  Suff:  ob:  X  |  in  com:  Suff:  Gul:  on  a  bend  argt  3:  Crosses  Robte  Ryee 

wyfe.  I  lyeth  buried,  at  Nedgeinge  afforesaide.  j  pattyes  sab:  second  wyfe.  Ar. 


Horn  trey  Mooun¬ 
ines  of  Seamour  in 
com  Suff:  1st  sonne, 
ivhere  he  dyed >1;  was 
buryed :  he  mar: 
Ellen  ye  dau:  of 
Vngle. 


- 1  i  i 

Margaret  mar:  to  Crispe. 

Christian  mar:  to  Thomp¬ 
son  of  Orfford. 

Elizab:  mar:  to  RoL‘  (Loa¬ 
der  ot  Lavenham  prd. 


Bridget  mar:  to 
Edmund,  Knape  ol 
IPashbrooke  in 
com:  of  Suff. 

Nicholas  3d  son, 
ob.  Infans. 


George  Thom  Mouunine,  now  of=f=Susan 

Mooning  Nedgeinge  in  com  Suff:  dau :  of 
)th  sonne  gen:  3d  son  mar:  Mary  Rosyer 

dyed  vn-  dau  of  ..  .  Hyeghe  of  3d 

married.  Nedgeinge  Clarke :  his  wyfe. 

first  wyfe.  ^ 


Rub 1  Mounine  eldest  son  X  heir 
mar:  Dorcas  dau:  of  Daniell 
Reeve  Doctor  of  Diuinitye. 


Thom  Moo’n:  2d  son. 
Israeli  3d  son. 


C/eint 
Moo’n: 
)th  son. 


Ryece  Moouninge  5th  sonne  of. 
Mary  3d  dau:  mar:  to  ..  .  Parke. 


Elizab.  eldest  dau: 
mar:  to  John  Grym- 
wade. 


Robt  Moonines  of  Hi- 
gleynes  in  Monckes- 
Ellighe  in  com:  Buff: 
gen •  2d  sonne,  liue- 
inge  Ano  16 15=^ Eliza¬ 
beth  ye  dau.  of  Her¬ 
bert.  -j — 

— - p - ! 

Bridget  2d  dau: 


mar:  to  ffrauncs 
Lucas. 


1  Katherine  Munnyng,  then  wife  of  John  Worlyche,  was  niece  and  devisee  of  John  Reve  al’s  Milforthe,  the  last  Abbot  of  Bury,  who 
names  her  and  her  two  sisters,  Margaret  wife  of  Thomas  Wingfelde  of  Sandwich,  and  Elizabeth  Munnyng  in  his  will  P.C.C,  dated  1540.  In 
the  Worlich  pedigree,  Hurl.  MS.  1560,  she  is  described  as  daughter  and  coheir  of  Thomas  Moiling.  She  was  living  9  Sept.  1558,  when  her 
husband  made  his  will  P.C.C.  6  Loftus. 


MUNNING  OF  NEDGING. 


107 


4#lumtfng  of  j&efcgtng. 


Henry  Munyng  of  Nedgynge,  co.  Suffolk  ;=j=Alice,  dau.  of=-Margaret, living! 521, 


Will  P.C.C.  18  Mayuwaryng  111  Oct.  1521  ; 
Probate  29  Nov.  1521  ;  lands  in  I.ey- 
ham.  Semere,  Bylston  and  Nedging  ;  names 
Thomas  Munying  one  of  his  executors. 


Pye  of  Laven- 
ham. 


one  of  her  husband’s 
executors,  being  pro¬ 
bably  a  second  wife. 


Thomas  Mouninge  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
Gent.  See  Higham  pedigree,  Hurl.  MS. 
1103.  In  a  Suffolk  Fine,  Hill,  1  Eliz.  Anne 
Higham  is  termed  one  of  his  daus  and  heirs, 
Katherine  Worlich  being  probably  another. 


Agnes  Munnyng,  wife  of 
Robert  Ryce  of  Preston, 
1521.  Her  descendant, 
Robert  Ryce,  the  Suffolk 
Antiquary,  in  Will  P.C.C. 
36  Harvye,  1637,  names 
Mr  William  M mining, 
Ryce  Munning,  &c  ,  &c., 
his  kinsmen. 


.  .  .  da.  and=j- Thomas  Munynge  of  : 
h.  of  .  .  .  Nedgyng.  co.  Suff.,  Gent. 
Barker,  1st  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  7  Oct. 
wife.  1556;  Prob4  28  May  1 557 ; 

to  be  bur.  in  the  church  ; 
names  Wm  Risby,  his 
late  father-in-law  and 
Elizabeth  Osmund  his 
wife’s  daughter. 


=Aliee,  da  of  W,n  Risby  of=f=. 
Lavenham  Esq  ;  made  will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  as  Alice  Mon- 
inge  of  Nedging,  widow,  2 
Aug.  1582  ;  Prob4  15  Jan. 
1587. 


1st  hus¬ 
band. 


Elizabeth,  ux.  Robert  Osmund  of  Bildes- 
ton,  co.  Suffolk,  1556  &  1582;  had  issue. 


Anne  Mouyng,  1  st  wife  of  Sir  Cle¬ 
ment  Higham  of  Barrow  ;  mar. 
circrtl530;  diedbefore  1540.  Her 
daus  and  coheirs,  Eliz.  Kempe, 
Margaret  Moseley,  Anne  Turnor 
and  Frances  Stoner,  sold  her  lands 
by  Fiue,  Hill  4  Eliz.  In  his  will, 
1570,  Sir  Clement  leaves  money 
to  the  poor  of  Semere  and 
Nedging. 


Humphrey 
Munning  of 
Semere,  co. 
Suff.,  mar¬ 
ried  Ellen 
Tingle.  His 
children 
were  under 
age  in  1582, 
when  Alice 
Munning 
made  her 
will.Admon 
Arch. Sudb. 
A0  1596. 


- ! — , — J - 

Margaret,  ux  .  .  .  Crispe, 
living  1556. 

Christian,  ux.  .  .  .  Thom- 
~son  of  Orford,  1556. 

Elizabeth,  ux.  Robert 
Woder  of  Lavenham, 
1556. 


Bridget,  ux.  Edmund 
Knapp  of  Washbrook. 
A  quo  Knapp  of  Hin- 
tlesham,  1612. 

Nicholas,  ob.  infaus. 

George,  devisee  of  his 
father,  1556. 


Thomas  Munning  of  = 
Nedging.  Gent  ;  held 
lease  there,  1610,  iieig- 
hnm  V.  Munnini/  ;  said 
to  have  mard  Mary 
Hyeghe  ;  Marion  Hol¬ 
brook  another  wife  ; 
mar.  lie.  Arch.  Sudb. 

7  Feb.  1589. 


Susan,  da  and  sole 
heir  of  John  Rosier 
of  Nedging,  who 
made  will  Arch. 
Sudb.  17  Sept.  1619. 
and  names  her 
children. 


Robert  Munning  of 
Monk’sEleigh  Gent. ; 
mar.  Eliz.,  da.  of 
Wm  Herbert  of  Hol- 
lesley,  Gent.,  who 
made  will  P.C.C.  1 
June  1587,  naming 
each  of  her  children. 


Thomas  Munning,  1619  ;  de¬ 
visee  of  Rob1  Ryce,  1 637. 


William  Munning.  not 
yet  23  A0  1619. 


Susan, 

1619. 


Anne, 

1619. 


Bridget, 

1619. 


Abigail. 

1619. 


I 


TT 


Robert,  eldest  s  ;  m.  Thomas,  2d  son.  Clement,  Ryece  Munning.de-  Eliz.  mar.  John  Gry  in  wade. 
Dorcas,  da.  of  Daniel  —  4th  son,  visee  of  Rob4  Ryce  of  — 

Reeve,  D.D.  Israel,  3d  son.  Preston,  1637.  Mary,  3d  da.  m.  to  ...  Parke. 


Bridget,  2  da.  mar. 
Francis  Lucas;  a  quo 
Lucas  of  Essbx,  1664. 


Humphrey  Munninge,  Rector  of  Bretten-=j=Elizabetli.  d.  of  William  Winthrop  of  Henry  Munning,  bapt.  at  Semer,  1565,  brother  in- 
liam,  co.  Suffolk.  Will,  Cur.  Fp.  Norw.  9  I  London,  Gent.,  who  d.  1581.  Her  law  and  executor  of  Elizabeth  Munninge,  1631. 
Oct.  1622  ;  Prob.  25  Sept.  1624  ;  “my  !  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  is  dated  8  March  Probably  the  Henry  Munninge  of  Bury  St.  Eds, 


cousin  Munninge  ”  of  Adam  Winthrop' s 

Diary, 


Richard  Theo- 
philus  and  Leon¬ 
ard  Munninge, 
devisees  of  their 
mother  in  1624. 


Elizabeth,  eldest  da., 
mar.  to  George  Salter 
29  Oct.  1616,  Winthrop 
Diary  ;  and  devisee  of 
her  mother  1624. 


1624  ;  Probate  17  Oct.  1631. 


temp.  King  Charles,  mentioned  by  Candler. 


Anne  Munning, 
devisee  of  R  o- 
bert  Rice  of 
Preston  1637. 


Abigail  Munning, 
under  1 8  v  hen 
her  mother  made 
her  will  1624. 


Humphrey, 
named  in  Rob4 
Plume’s  will,  1627. 
London  Consis¬ 
tory. 


Katherine  and 
Ellen  Munning, 
devisees  of  Rob1 
Rice,  1037. 


William  Munninge,  M. A., Rector=f  Abigail,  da.  of  .  .  . 
of  Brettenjiam,  1655;  devisee  of  I  Ward  of  Monks  Ely 


Rob4  Rice.  1637  ;  of  Chedburgh, 
Suff.,  1663,  when  he  made  will  ; 
probate  1  Dec.  1669  ;  sometime 
Rector  of  Preston:  cousin  &  de 
viseeof  Sir  Henry  Mildmay,1637' 


and  cousin  to  Nathan¬ 
iel  Ward,  Pastor  of 
Ipswich  in  New  Eng¬ 
land  ;  she  was  living  in 
1663. 


N/ 


:.  .  .  Smart.  Minister  of 
St.  Nicholas.  Ipswich,  Tan- 
ve ’•  M S.  ISO,  118.  first 
liusbd  of  Abigail  Ward  who 
had  by  him  three  sons. 
Ministers  at  Ipswich,  Rede, 
and  Kimbolton. 


Magdalene, =fHenry  Monniuge  of  Elve- 


lst  wife. 


den.  com.  Suff.,  Gent. 
Will  P.C.C.  31  Pell,  1  Nov. 
1657  ;  prob4  24  Jan.  1658  ; 
houses  in  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds  ;  names  Aunt  How- 
lett  of  Elveden. 


Eliza¬ 
beth,  2d 
wife. 


William  Munning,  ex¬ 
ecutor  to  his  father, 
1669. 


i  r 

William,  eldest  son. 
Thomas. 


Henry  Munning,  2d 
son,  final  admr  of  his 
father’s  estate,  1692. 


J  ames. 


- 1 — i - 

Anne. 

Magdalene. 


John  Munning,  son 
of  the  second  wife, 
1657. 


— i 

Elizabeth. 


Susan. 


P“ 


jfortl)  of  IpaOlngl). 


©rant  of  jVrrns  to  Hubert  JFortlj,  1559. 

To  all  nobles  and  gentles  tlmse  p’sent  Ires  reading  hering  or  seeing  Thomas  Hawley  als 
Clareneieulx  prinoipall  Herault  K yng  of  Amies  of  ye  South  East  &  West  parts  of  this  Realme 

of  England  from  ve  river  of  Trent  Southwards  sendeth  due  &  humble  commendacons.  As  equity 
willeth  &  reason  ordeyneth  y*  men  vertuous  &  of  noble  courage  be  by  their  merritts  &  good 

renowne  rewarded  not  only  their  p’sons  in  this  mortal  1  lyfe  so  brief  it  transitory  but  after  them 

those  \rt  shalbe  of  their  bodyes  descended  to  be  in  all  placys  of  honnor  p’petually  wth  other 
renowned  accepted  &  taken  by  certaine  Insigns  &  demonstrance’s  of  honnor  &  noblesse  yl  is  to 
say  blazon  helme  &  tymbre  to  thend  yl  their  ensamples  should  cause  other  to  enforce  theirselves 
to  bane  p’seuerance  in  using  their  dayes  in  feates  of  Amies  &  wercks  vertuous  to  gee  ye  renowne 
of  auncient  noblencs  in  their  lignes  &  posterities.  And  therfore  I  Clareneieulx  King  of  Arms  as  aboue 
is  written  not  alonly  by  ye  common  renowne  but  also  by  the  reporte  A  witnesse  of  men  worthy 
to  be  taken  of  worde  &  credence  am  playuly  certified  &  enformed  yl  Robert  Forde  of  Hadley  in  ye 
county  of  Suffolke  gent,  is  descended  of  a  house  undefamed  &  hath  of  long  times  pursued  in  feates 

of  Armes  &  works  vertuous  &  in  all  his  affaires  hath  borne  himselfe  so  vertuously  &  honestly  so  yl 

he  hath  well  deservyd  from  henceforth  to  here  ye  tokens  &  insigns  of  honour  &  noblesse  yt  is  to  say 
Armes  neuerthelesse  he  not  willinge  to  doe  anything  y1  should  be  preiudiciall  to  any  gent  of  name  & 
of  Armes  hath  desyred  me  ye  sd  Clareneieulx  King  of  Armes  to  set  forth  giue  grant  assigne  A 
appoynt  his  sd  Armes  healme  A  Creast  with  due  difference  lofully  to  be  borne.  Wherefore  1 
Clareneieulx  King  of  Armes  seying  the  request  so  iust  &  resonable  by  thauthoritye  to  me  and  to 
my  office  of  Clareneieulx  King  of  Armes  annexed  attribued  giuen  &  graunted  by  the  Kyng  our 
Soueraigne  Lords  highnesse  by  expresse  wordes  under  his  most  noble  greate  Seale  have  deuised  ordeind" 
&  assigned  to  ye  s'1  Robert  Forde  gentleman  these  Amies  as  hereafter  followeth.  That  is  to  say 
Gules  two  bends  siluer  &  sable  verre  in  a  Canton  gold  a  demi  greyhound  passant  sable  langued 
gewles  uppon  his  healme  on  a  torse  siluer  &  sable  oil  a  bears  head  rased  vert  moseled  gold  three 

dropps  siluer  as  more  playnelv  appeareth  depicted  in  the  margent.  To  haue  &  to  hold  to  hym  & 

his  posterity  A  they  his  to  use  to  their  worshipps  for  euermore.  In  witnesse  whereof  I  y*  s'1 
Clareh  Kynge  of  Armes  have  signed  these  prsents  with  my  hand  &  set  thereunto  the  seale  of  my 

Armes  wtu  the  Seale  of  my  office  of  Clareneieulx  King  of  Amies.  Yeuen  &  granted  at  London 

ye  10th  day  of  Decembre  ye  yeare  of  our  Ld.  god  1539  &  of  our  Soueraigne  Ld.  King  H.  8th 
ye  31  of  his  most  noble  reign.  Par  moy  Clareneieulx  Roy  d’Armes. 

Extracted  from  the  Records  of  the  College  of  Arms  and  examined  therewith  this  10th  day 
of  December,  1894.  Charles  H.  Athill, 

Richmond  Herald  of  Arms. 


FORTH  OF  HADLEIGH. 


109 


(Hill  of  William  Jfortlj,  1504. 

The  secunde  day  of  August,  in  the  yere  of  our  lord  m1  vc  iiij,  I  William  fioorth  of  Had’.eigh 
in  Suff.,  of  the  churche  of  Caunterbury  Jurisdiction,  immediate  albe  it  am  feble  in  body,  thanked 
be  almighty  god,  I  am  in  good  memory  and  of  hole  mynde,  ordeyne  and  make  my  testament  in 
hymself  conteynyng  my  last  will,  soo  that  first  and  bifore  all  things  I  bequeth  my  soule  to  almightie 
god,  to  or  blissed  lady  and  to  all  the  holy  seynts  in  heven,  ther9  my  soule  thorough  the  gret 
m9cy  of  god  to  haue  the  fruycion  of  the  eternall  deytie.  And  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  churche  or 
churchyerd  of  Hadleigh  forsaid.  It1  I  will  that  Sr  John  Gilbert  haue  eu9y  yere  x  m?es  during  the  tyme 
of  his  lif  naturall  to  syng  in  the  churche  of  Hadleigh  for  my  soule  and  all  my  friends  soules,  and 
to  be  good  and  loving  to  myh  executo1'.  It  I  will  an  honest  prcest  and  a  worshipful  1  ornament  be 
prouided  and  geven  to  the  church  of  Hadleigh  of  the  yssues  &  pffitts  growing  of  the  lands  that  I 
haue  in  Bretnahm  and  of  the  crofte  callid  Colys  crofte  in  Hadleigh.  Itm  I  will  that  the  holiwater 

stope  of  silu9  be  geven  to  the  priory  of  Butleigh  to  be  praide  fore.  Ip  I  bequeth  iiju  for  a  light 

to  brenne  bifore  the  holy  sacrament  day  and  nyght.  IP  I  will  the  vse  and  habitacion  of  my  mansion 
w*  all  the  vteusills  of  the  same  and  the  silu9  plate  that  I  haue  be  comen  aswele  to  Margaret  my 
wif  as  to  Robert  my  sonne,  and  af?  the  decesse  of  the  said  Margaret  integrally  the  said  mansion 
vteusills  and  silu9  plate  to  remayne  to  the  said  Robert  my  son.  And  to  that  entent  ther9  should 
be  the  more  concord  and  amytie  of  the  sayd  Margaret  I  will  she  haue  at  hur  free  libtie  lxxxvi 
vucf  of  silu9  plate.  I?  I  will  that  my  wif  shalhaue  yerely  during  the  t9me  of  hir  liff  naturall  of 

thissues  of  the  best  porcion  of  my  londf  xlu,  provided  that  alwey  she  be  sole  relicte  not  maried. 

I?  I  bequeth  another  c  mrcs  to  Thomas  Baldry  of  London  and  Elizabeth  his  wif  my  doughP.  IP 
to  John  Coke  the  house  that  he  dwellith  yn.  The  Residue  of  all  my  goodes  I  gewe  to  Robert  my 
son  whom  I  ordeyn  myh  executor  disiring  Sir  Jamys  Hobard  Knyght  to  bere  goode  assistauns  and 
geve  holsom  councell  that  this  my  last  will  may  stond  in  strength  and  take  effect.  Wittnes  of  this 
my  last  will  @  John  Asshewell  my  gcstly  fader,  Sir9  John  Gilbert  preest  and  other  moo-  Probation 
vicesimo  qui9nto  die  Octobris  1504.  Jur9  Roberti  fioorth  executores,  Ac.  P.C.C.  19  Holgrave. 


Will  of  Hotel  Jfortlj,  1540. 

18  July  32  H.  8.  Robert  fforthe  of  Hadleigh,  gentleman,  in  the  countie  of  Suff.  .  .  .  My 
body  to  be  buried  in  seint  Maries  Church  of  Hadlegh  .  .  .  vnto  eu9y  of  my  three  doughters,  Mary 
Julyan  and  Kateryn  ...  a  hundreth  pound  sterling  to  be  paied  at  the  day  of  mariage  .  .  .  vnto 
Will  in  fforth  my  yongest  sonne,  to  hym  and  to  his  heires  for  eu9more  the  mn9s  of  Oldhall  and 
New  hall  in  Mysteleigh  with  the  thorne  ...  in  Essex  ...  to  the  said  Willm  &  to  his  heires  .  .  . 
the  ferme  callyd  the  Melhouse  in  langham  in  the  said  countie  .  .  .  vnto  the  said  Willm  <fe  to  his 
heires  for  eu9  the  tenement  callyd  the  ftord  in  Manytre  or  Mysteligh  .  .  .  vnto  the  said  Willm  and 
to  his  heires  the  tenement  or  ferme  callyd  Jopys  in  Dedham  .  .  .  vnto  the  said  Willm  ...  all  my 
medowes  and  lands  in  Stratford  .  .  .  and  all  other  my  lands  iu  balford,  Mysteleigh,  langham  and 
Manyngtre  not  afore  rehersed  in  the  said  Townes  or  Counties  ...  I  make  myne  executours  Martyn 
fforth  myne  eldest  son  and  myne  heire,  and  Willm  fforth  my  yongest  sonne.  In  witnes  wherof  Dame 
Elizabeth  Baldry  widowe,  Mr  Doctor  Revytt,  Mr  Robert  Barfoot  M9cer,  Mr  Thomas  Barfote  Parson  of 
saint  Denys  Backchurch,  Elizabeth  Powell  and  other.  Itm  for  the  debt  of  John  Bowund  draper  my 
will  is  that  the  said  Dame  Elizabeth  ner  her  executours  be  troubled  or  vexed  for  the  same  but  clerely 
forgyvyn.  Probatum  16  Sepl.  1540,  Juramento  Willm  fforth  executoris.  P.C.C.  11  Alenger. 


110 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  William  Jortlj,  1555. 

Wyllyam  ffoorthe  of  Hadley  in  the  Countie  of  Sufi3  Esquyer,  thys  fyrste  daye  of  Marche  in 
the  fyrst  yere  of  the  reign  of  Queene  Mary.  I  do  gyue  to  the  poore  people  of  Hadley  twentie 

pounds.  To  the  poore  of  Butley  and  Capell  in  Suff  twentie  poundes.  I  do  gyue  to  euery  of  my 

systers  except  my  syster  Mary  Brewse  a  rynge  of  golde  price  fourtie  shillinges,  and  I  do  gyue  to 
my  said  syster  Mary  Brewse  twentie  poundes.  I  do  giue  to  my  Brother  Brewse  suche  one  of  my 
gownes  as  he  shall  chose.  Item  whereas  I  hauc  purchased  Phillipp  Wollu9stone  a  tenement  and 
certayne  landes  in  Wollu?stone  for  the  summe  of  threscoore  poundes  yf  the  said  Phillipp  shall 

paye  within  one  yere  next  after  my  decease  the  [said]  summe  I  do  giue  the  saidc  tenement  and 

premisses  to  the  same  Phillippe  for  terme  of  his  lief,  the  remaynder  after  his  death  to  Gyles 
Wollu^stone  his  brother.  Executor  to  giue  to  Andery  Wollu9stone  my  cosen  toward  her  manage  ten 
poundes.  I  do  gyue  to  euery  of  my  other  cosyns  Philipp  Wolu9stone  systers  a  ringe  of  golde.  Item, 
I  do  giue  to  ffrances  Warner  twentie  poundes.  Executors  shall  receaue  two  parts  of  the  profytts  of 
all  my  maners,  lands,  and  tenements  in  Butley,  Boy  ton  and  Tangam  in  Suff9  vntyll  my  eldest  sonne 
shall  come  to  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares,  as  also  the  whole  profytts  of  my  lands  holden  of 
the  Maner  of  Hadley,  Aldliam  and  Toppesfeild,  and  also  two  parts  of  all  my  lands  and  tenements 
in  London,  Stratford  Langthorne,  Westhani  and  in  Harwich  and  in  Colchester  in  Essex.  I  do  gyve 
to  euerye  of  my  two  daughters  Anne  and  Katherine  three  hundrethe  marks  at  their  full  age  or 
daie  of  manage.  To  Elizabethe  my  wief  during  the  space  of  twentie  yeares  after  my  dethe  moytie 
of  the  profytts  of  all  my  copyholde  lands  that  I  do  holde  of  Netherbery  hall  in  Layham  and  of 
Overberyhall.  I  do  gyve  vnto  my  wief  one  hundrethe  marks  in  monei  and  one  moitie  of  all  my 
goods  except  my  sheepe  at  Boyton  in  Sufi’  and  my  chayne  of  golde.  To  my  wief  during  her  lief 
naturall  copyhold  lands  and  tenements  holden  of  the  Manor  of  Hadley,  &c..  and  after  the  deathe  of 
saide  wief  all  the  same  do  remayne  vnto  Wyllyam  ffoorthe  my  third  sonne.  Copy  lands  in  Hadley 
to  John  ffoorthe  my  yongest  sonne,  To  Philologe  ffoorthe  my  seconde  sonne  Ladye  lande  holden  of 
the  Man9e  of  Toppisfeilde  hall.  I  do  gyve  to  Israeli  ffoorthe  my  fourthe  sonne  pasture  in 
Whatfeilde.  To  my  brother  Veysey  a  ringe  price  fourtie  shillinge.  To  my  goddaughter  one  of  the 
dough ters  of  my  cosyn  John  Browne  a  dozen  of  syluer  spoones  price  three  pounds  sixe  shillings 
eight-pence  and  to  my  cosyn  Roger  Waren  my  best  trottynge  geldynge.  To  my  godsonnes  beinge 
sonnes  of  my  brother  Edward  Morse,  Henry  Browne  and  my  cosyn  Roger  Waren  a  ringe.  Executor® 
Elizabeth  my  wyffe  my  cosen  Thomas  Albaster  ais  Alabaster  and  Roberte  ffoorthe  my  eldest  sonne. 
Supuiso9s  John  Browne  m9cer,  Richard  fforssett  gentilman  and  Richard  Cornewallis  gentillman.  Edward 
Whytclmrche  [a  witness].  Probatum  19  Jan.  1559  Elizabeths  Relcie.  Quinto  die  ffebruarij  1562 
comissa  Thome  Arblaster.  Deinde  6  May  1563  comissa  Roberto  fforth  executori. 

P.C.C.  7  Mellershe. 


Jmjnisition  on  tl )t  ftratb  of  Militant  Jrortlj,  1559. 

London.  Inquis  cap?  apud  Guyhaldam  London  octauo  die  ffebruarij  anno  regni  Elizabeth 
Angl  ffranc  &  Hibh  Regime  primo  coram  Thoma  Leigh  milite  maiore  ciuitatf  jfdce  ac  escaetore 
dee  due  Regine  post  mortem  Wiffi  fforthe  Armigi  p  saerfh  Thome  Lvtton  Johis  Haddon  ifcc.  .  .  . 
Qui  die  sup  saerm  ql  Wilis  fforthe  in  dco  brl  noTat  fuit  seit  de  vno  mesuagio  sive  tent  nup  voc 
le  Crane  &  postea  voc  le  Greyhounde  &  duab^  mesuagijs  adiaceh  scituat  in  pochia  SCi  Andree  iux 
Crists  Chiuche  infra  dcam  ciuitatem  London  nup  monastno  de  Byley  in  com  Essex  ptin.  Ac  de 
&  in  vno  mesuagio  scituat  in  pochia  Crist i  ac  nup  in  pochia  Sci  Nichi  ad  macellas  London  modo 


FORTH  OF  nADLEIGH. 


Ill 


in  tenur  Jofiis  Latnbe  carnificf.  F’dcus  Witts  ffoorthe  primo  die  Marcij  anno  regni  due  Marie  nup 

Regiue  Angt  primo  fecit  testm  &  legauit  ten  {idea  in  dca  ciuitat  London  in  Anglicis  v9bis,  videit : 

Itfn  I  will  that  my  executors  shall  receyve  aswell  two  parts  of  the  pffetts  of  all  my  mannors 
lands  and  tents  in  Butley  Boyton  and  Tangam  in  the  Couutie  of  Suff  vntill  my  eldest  son  or 
his  next  heirc  (if  he  dye  before  his  full  age)  shall  come  to  the  age  of  xx  yeres,  as  also  the  hole 
pffetts  of  all  my  lands  holden  by  copy  of  court  roll  of  the  mannors  of  Hadley  Aldam  and  Toppys- 
ffyld  except  suclie  lands  as  I  have  pticulerly  otherwise  by  this  my  last  will  assigned  and  gyven, 
and  two  parts  of  all  my  free  lands,  towards  the  pformaunce  of  this  my  last  will,  and  also  two 
ptes  of  all  my  lands  and  tents  lyeing  in  London  and  in  Stratford  Langthorne,  Westham,  Hanvyche 
and  Colchester  in  the  seid  countie  of  Essex.  Et  dci  testi  sui  fecit  A  constituit  PJlizabeth  tunc 
vxorem  snam,  Thomam  Albaster  als  Alabaster  &  Robtm  foorthe  film  suu  primogenitu  executores  suos. 
Executores  intrauer  A  fuer  &  adhuc  existunt  hide  possessionat.  Et  Jur  jidc  die  qd  {idea  mesuagia  in 
dca  pochia  Sci  *  Andree  iuxta  Crists  Churclie  tenent1'  tempore  mortis  dci  Witti  ffoorthe  tenebantr  de 
dna  Regina  nunc  in  capit  p  si  vie  vicesime  pt  is  vnius  feodi  milit  et  valent  p  ann  in  omib^  exitib^ 
centu  solid.  Et  qd  mesuagiu  imp  in  pochia  Sci  Nichi  ad  macellas  London  tenebatr  de  dca  dna 
Regina  tunc  p  fidelitat  tm  in  liho  burgagio  dee  ciuitats  London  p  omib^  slvicijs  et  valet  p  anh 
quinquagenta  &  quatuo^  solidos.  Pklcus  Witts  ffoorthe  obijt  xvij  die  Decembr  ante  capcionem  huius 
inquisicionis  et  Robtus  ffoorthe  est  filius  &  heres  eiusdem  Witti  fforthe  ppinquioa  A  est  tempore 
capcionis  huius  inquisicionis  etatf  octodecim  anno?  vnius  mensis  &  amplius.  In  cuius  rei  testimonium 
.  .  .  Jur  pdei  sigilla  sua  apposuer.  Ac.  Inq.  p.m.  I  Eliz..  I.  87. 


Will  of  Militant  JFortb,  1599- 

William  fforthe  of  Hadleigh,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  10  Sept.  1599.  To  my  brother  Israeli  fforthe, 
the  messuage  wherein  he  now  dwelleth,  for  the  space  of  tenne  yeares,  without  rent.  My  sonne  in 
lawe  Dannett  Poyntell,  whom  with  my  daughter  his  wife  I  make  executor,  all  my  lands  in  Suffolk, 
Norfolk,  Essex  or  Kent,  for  tenne  yeares,  rent  free.  To  Phillip  fforthe  my  sonne  Hive  pounds 
ycarely  for  tenne  yeares  :  and  the  same  to  Nycholas  fforthe  my  sonne.  To  my  said  sonne  Nycholas 
my  lands  in  Roydon  A  Wenham,  and  my  lands  late  purchased  of  Andrewcs  of  Roydon.  All  my 
other  lands  to  my  sonne  Phillip  fforthe.  To  William  dorthe  my  sonne,  a  load  of  wool.  Comisio  3 
Ootob  1599  Phillippo  fforth  fit  ad  administrand,  Ac.  Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  73  Kidd. 


Will  uf  Eobert  JFortb,  1600. 

Robte  fforthe  of  Butlie  in  the  county  of  Suff:  Esquire,  2  ffeb  1600,  431'1  Elizth.  I  comend  my 
soule  to  Allmightie  God,  beleivinge  through  the  meritts  of  our  Lord  to  be  forgeven  my  synnes  and 
to  inherite  lyfe  eu9lastinge.  My  bodie  to  be  buried  to  remaine  in  hope  of  the  resrection  \vlh  the 
elect  of  God  to  the  fulnes  of  all  ioy  to  contynue  for  eu9more.  1  give  and  bequeath  to  my 
welbeloved  wife,  ffrancis  fforthe,  the  apparell,  Jewells  and  ornaments  pvided  for  her  onlie  vse  :  also 
all  manner  of  honshold  stuffe,  and  all  my  plate,  mylch  neate,  dayrie  vessells,  Ac.,  and  one  hundred 
shepe,  my  coche  A  coche-horses  A  ffive  of  my  best  geldings  or  mares.  She  to  keep  herself 
vnmarried  during  the  mynoritie  of  our  children,  and  to  see  them  brought  up  in  godlie,  good  and 

decent  exercises.  To  Anne  my  daughter  three  hundred  pounds.  To  Dorathie  my  daughter  three 

hundred  pounds  when  she  accomplishes  her  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  To  William  fforthe  my 

sonne  all  my  armour,  weapons,  and  munitions  of  warre  at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  By 


112 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


wriglitinges  quinq-ptite  indented,  dated  xx  Aprell  36th  Elizabeth,  between  me,  by  the  name  of  Robte 
fforthe  th’elder  of  Rutlie  Esqr  on  the  one  pte,  &  Rob1  Lord  Riche,  Sr  Phillipp  Parker  of  Arraton 
Knight,  S1'  Henry  Glemham  of  Glemham,  Knight,  Edward  Cooke  of  Huntingfeild  Esquire  her  Maiti0 
Attorny  geirall,  Leonard  Spencer  of  Rendlesham  Esqr,  now  deceased,  John  Osborne  of  Harkstede 
Esquire,  Thomas  Hayes  of  the  Citie  of  London  gent,  &  Anthony  Morse  of  Stratford  in  the  said 
Conntie  of  Suff.  gent,  on  th  other  pte  ;  I,  in  consideration  of  the  affection  I  doe  beare  vnto  Willm 

fforthe  &  Robte  ffoithe,  my  sonnes,  have  conveyed  my  Manors  Ac,  in  Suff:  Essex  &  y®  Cittie  of 

London  :  I  nowe  for  confirmation  of  said  conveyances,  do  hereby  devise  said  manors  Ac.  in  manner 
following.  My  messuages  in  Langham,  Dedhm  and  Audley  in  the  County  of  Essex,  or  in  the 
townes  of  Stmtford  and  Stoke  in  Suffolk  ;  A  messuages  in  the  said  cittie  of  London,  to  the  use 

of  me  for  lyfe,  and  after  my  decease  vntill  Robte  fforthe,  yongest  sonne  of  me  be  twenty  one.  Nowe 

I  appoint  my  wyffe  to  hould  said  mesuages,  except  those  in  London  which  are  nowe  sould  to 
one  Dannett  Povntell  A  one  Willm  Essington,  vntill  said  Robert  fforthe  my  sonne  accomplish  his 
age  of  twenty  one  yeares.  In  default  of  yssue  of  the  said  Robert  fforthe  I  will  the  same  to 
William  fforthe,  one  other  of  my  sonnes  :  and  failing  heires  males,  remainder  to  the  daughters  of 
Robert  my  sonne ;  —  the  daughters  of  William  my  sonne  ;  —  the  daughters  of  me  : — their  yssue : — 
the  right  heirs  of  the  daughter  of  me,  for  ever.  I  give  and  bequeath  vnto  ffrancis  my  wyffe,  the 
Scite  of  the  Priory  of  Butlie,  and  nowe  Mancon  Hows  and  Gate  hows  of  me,  Ac.,  Ac.,  also  the 
tythes  of  Butley  and  Capell,  to  have  A  to  hold  during  her  lyffe  :  A  after  her  decease  to  the  said 
William  fforthe  my  sonne,  and  his  heires  males  ;  failing  yssue  to  Robert  fforthe  my  sonne,  Ac.,  Ac. 
Ynto  the  said  William  fforthe  my  sonne  my  said  Manor  of  Boyton  co.  Suffolk,  the  advowson  of 
Boyton  and  all  that  Salte  water  called  the  Gull,  vnto  the  mouthe  of  Orfford  Haven,  Ac.,  Ac.,  and 
failing  heires  males,  to  Robert  my  sonne,  Ac.,  Ac.  My  wife  to  enjoy  them  fourteen  yeares.  Item 
to  my  wel  beloved  brother  Israeli  fforthe  ffowertie  pounds.  Itm  to  my  welbeloved  brother  John 
fforthe  a  Ringe  of  Aungell  gowld  worthe  ffowertie  shillinges.  Itm  to  my  daughter  Margerie  Rogers, 
married  to  John  Rogers  two  hundreth  poundes,  the  said  John  to  scale  a  good  estate  of  the  cleere 
veerly  value  of  fortye  poundes  by  way  of  her  Joynture.  To  my  sonne  Robte  ffor:he  anuitie  of 
twentye  poundes  oute  of  all  my  lands. 

And  forasmuche  as  my  great  care  A  studdie  is  that  my  sonne  William  might  in  his  yonger 
yeeres  he  soe  seasoned  and  instructed  in  the  trewe  vnderstandiuge  A  knowledge  of  his  salvation,  and 

soe  might  contynue  to  lyve  in  the  feare  and  favour  of  God,  that  his  blessinge  A  peace  might  be 

vppon  him  all  the  dayes  of  his  life,  the  wch  the  Lord  of  his  mercie  for  Christes  sake  grunt :  my 
desire  is  that  my  lovinge  freind  Mr  Thomas  Retheriche,  now  Pastor  of  the  pislie  churche  of  Butlie 
A  Capell,  shall  be,  remayne  A  contynue  as  my  m}uiyster,  during  of  his  life.  In  consideration  of 

his  travel!,  care  A  payncs,  his  preachiiige  A  in  catichisinge  to  my  sonne  Willm  A  to  the  plshoners. 

And  in  respect  of  the  good  councell  I  hope  lie  will  give  from  tyme  to  tyme  to  my  said  sonnes,  I 
bequeath  to  the  said  Thomas  his  competent  dyet,  foode  A  lodginge,  and  his  wyve’s  in  my  howse  as 
they  nowe  haue  it,  during  his  lyffe.  And  I  do  further  give  said  Thomas  one  yeerly  stipend  of 
twenty  poundes  duringe  life.  To  eche  of  my  daughters  that  are  married  I  give  one  Ringe.  The 
Residue  of  my  estate  to  ffrancis  my  wyffe  and  to  William  my  sonne  whome  I  appoint  my  executours ; 
and  I  intreat  my  lovinge  and  good  freind  A  brother  in  lawe  John  Osborne  to  be  supvisor.  My  will, 
conteyninge  one  A  twentie  sheetes  of  pap  fyled  together  with  a  redd  silke  lace,  I  have  sealed  with 
my  scale  of  Armes.  Probatum,  2  Martij  1600,  juramento  procuris  ffrancis  A  Willmi  fforthe. 

Cur.  Ep  Norwich,  Originals,  A°  1600. 


FORTH  OF  HADLEIGH. 


113 


Will  of  %>ix  ®illiam  Jfortb,  1612. 

Sir  William  fforthe  of  ffhrneham  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk,  Knight,  7  Sept.  10  James.  To  be 
buried  at  Butley.  To  my  wife  one  hundred  pounds  yerely  out  of  my  lands  in  Butley,  Capell  and 
Boyton,  My  ffarm  in  Boy  ton  to  William  fforthe  my  son.  To  both  my  daughters  five  hundred 
pounds  apiece  at  their  age  of  sixteen  years.  Sir  Henry  Glemham,  Knight,  to  be  my  sole 
executor.  Probat  11  Dec.  1621.  Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  107  Dale. 


Will  of  Joi)n  jfortlj,  1615. 

In  the  Name  of  God,  Amen.  John  fforthe  of  Much  Stambridge'  in  the  Countie  of  Essex 
Gent.  I  comende  my  Soule  into  the  handes  of  almightye  god  by  whose  free  mercy  and  Grace 
I  hope  to  be  saved,  and  my  bodie  to  be  comitted  to  the  earthe  wthin  the  parishe  Churche  of 
Stambridge  afore  saide.  To  my  brother  Israeli  fforthe  for  the  terme  of  his  naturall  life  the  sum 
of  twentie  poundes  yerely.  Item  I  doe  give  vnto  Henry  Winthrop,  the  seconde  sonne  of  John 
Winthrop  and  Mary  his  wife  my  daughter,  and  to  the  heires  of  the  bodie  of  the  said  Henry  lawfully 
begotten,  my  free  messuages,  lands  Ac.  in  the  parrishes  of  Rocheford,  little  Stambridge,  II  unveil 
and  Assingdon  in  the  said  Countie  of  Essex.  Item  I  doe  give  vnto  fforthe  Winthrop,  the  thirde 
sonne  of  the  said  John  Winthrop  and  Mary  his  wife,  my  mesuages  lands  and  tenements  both  freehold 
and  copyhold  in  the  parrishes  of  Hadleigh,  Layham  and  Hoyden  in  the  Countie  of  Sufff.  I  doe 
give  to  Mary  Winthrop,  the  daughter  of  the  said  John  Winthrop  and  Mary  his  wife,  the  sum  of 
two  hundred  and  forty  pounds  of  lawful  money  of  England  at  hir  age  or  eighteen  or  her  daie  of 
mariage  if  that  come  first.  To  said  Henry  Winthrop  and  fforthe  Winthrop  when  at  their  severall 
ages  of  twenty  yeres.  I  appoint  the  said  John  Winthrop  and  Mary  his  wife  my  daughter  executors. 
Signature  of  Adam  Winthrop  as  a  witness.  Probat  apud  Ingatestone  4  Junij  1613  Juramento  Johnis 
Winthrop  vnius  executorum. 

Sriia  .  .  .  inter  Johem  Winthorpe  et  Mariam  vx  eius  executores  ex  una  et  Israelem  fforthe  frerii 
naturale  et  ligit  defuncti,  Ac.  From  original  Wills,  Arch.  Essex,  A°  1613,  No.  63. 


Will  rtf  (KHjabtl)  Kange,  1640. 

Elizabeth  Rany  of  Hadleigh  co.  Suffolk  widow  17  Nov.  1640.  To  be  buried  in  the  church. 
To  my  brother  William  Forthe  the  elder  and  his  son  William  Forthe  the  younger  twelve  hundred 
and  thirty  pounds  to  pay  legacies.  To  Jane  Clarke  five  pounds  a  year  for  life.  To  Francis  Gill. 
To  my  nephews  John  and  Robert  Forthe  sons  of  my  brother  Phillip  Forthe.  To  said  Phillip  Forthe 
my  brother  the  lease  of  my  house  in  Aldermanbury.  To  Phillip  Forthe  his  son  the  term  of  years  of 
my  messuage  in  Mark  Lane.  To  Jane  Forthe  my  sister,  wife  of  Phillija  Forthe  my  brother 
aforesaid.  Said  Phillip  to  be  sole  executor.  Probatum  19  Martij  1640  Juramento  Phillip  fforthe 
fratris  A  execut.  Cur.  Prterog.  Cant.  35  Evelyn. 

®iU  of  $  bilip  JFortlj,  1642. 

Philip  ffoorth  th’elder  of  Hadley  co.  Suffolk  Esq.  12  April  1642.  To  Philip  ffoorth,  my  second 
son,  lands  which  I  purchased  of  my  brother  Nicholas  ffoorth  in  Roydon,  co.  Suffolk,  Ac.,  to  him 
and  to  the  heires  males  of  his  body  lawfully  begotten  :  failing  such,  to  Robert  ffoorth  my  youngest 
son  and  heires  males  of  his  body  :  failing  these,  to  John  ffoorth  my  eldest  son  and  heires  males 

Q 


114 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


&c.  :  and  failing  these,  remainder  to  Elizabeth  Waldegrave,  wife  of  William  Waldegrave,  Gent.,  Anne 
Vesey  wife  of  Robert  Vesey,  Gent,  and  Mary  Southwell,  wife  of  John  Southwell  Esq.,  daughters  of 
me.  To  Jane  my  wife  a  meadow  in  Hadley,  bought  of  my  cousin  Wintroppe.  To  my  youngest 
son,  Robert  ffoorthe,  lands  in  North  Lopham  co.  Norfolk,  in  Roydon  co.  Norfolk  and  in  Roydon  co. 
Suffolk,  <fec.  To  John  ffoorth  my  eldest  son  and  to  my  daughter  in  law  Mary  ffoorth  his  wife.  To 
my  grandchildren  Jeimimah  Waldegrave  and  Philip  ffoorth,  son  of  John  my  son.  My  wife  sole 
executrix.  My  brother  in  law  William  ffoorth  and  my  son  in  law  to  be  supervisors.  Probat  ult 
Aug.  1646.  Cur.  Prmrog.  Cant.  119  Twisse. 


Mill  of  William  Jfortlj,  1642. 

William  fforth  of  Butley  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke  Esqr  16  Jan.  1642.  I  give  my  soule  into 
the  handes  of  Almightie  God,  and  my  bodie  to  be  interred  in  Christian  buryall  in  the  Vaute  at 
Butley  where  my  Auncestors  lye.  And  as  concerninge  temporall  estate  which  God  of  his  mercy 
hath  indued  me,  I  give  all  vnto  Anne  fforth  my  most  loving  and  tender  wife.  And  I  doe  make 
her  my  sole  executrix.  Sealed  in  the  presence  of  vs  William  Tyrell,  Geruase  Hubbald,  &c.  Probatum 
10  May  1645.  Jur.  Anna)  fforth,  Relictse.  Cur.  Pnerog.  Cant.  74  Rivers. 


Will  af  33orotbn  1645. 

Dorothy  Southcott,  daughter  of  Sir  William  fforth  Knt.  of  Suffolk,  the  wife  of  Nicholas 
Southcott  Gent.,  late  of  London  but  then  of  Widley  co.  Southton,  by  will  nuncupative,  1  Aug- 
1643  or  thereabouts,  would  give  nothing  from  her  husband,  whom  she  named  executor.  Probatum 
22  ffeb.  1644  juramento  mariti. 

Siiia  pro  valore  testamenti,  inter  Nicholaum  Southcott  executor™  ex  una  et  Caro1.  Perkins, 
fratrem  vterih  et  Annam  fforth  matrem  quarundam  Annfe  fforth  et  Doratheee  fforth  neptium  ex 
altera.  Cur.  Prserog.  Cant. 


Mill  of  ffilijabctb  Bril,  1657. 

Elizabeth  Dell  of  Bow  widdow.  Imprimis  I  doe  giue  vnto  my  louing  brother  Master  Henry 

Bright  of  New  England  the  summe  of  two  hundred  pounds.  And  if  said  brother  depart  this  life 

before  the  paiment  thereof,  the  said  summe  shall  be  devided  amongst  his  children.  Item  vnto 
my  sister  Martha  Blowers  and  her  children.  Vnto  my  neice  Marie  Blowers,  daughter  of  said  • 
Martha,  the  summe  of  one  hundred  and  seaventie  pounds  att  her  age  of  twentie  and  one  yeares  or 
day  of  marriage.  Item  I  giue  vnto  Master  Greenhall,  Minister  of  the  Gospel  att  Stepney,  the 
summe  of  tenn  pounds.  Item  vnto  the  poore  members  of  Master  Greenhill’s  church  the  summe  of 
twentie  pounds.  To  the  poore  widdowes  of  Bowe  fine  pounds.  Vnto  my  nephew  William  Parks 
hue  pounds  to  buy  him  a  peece  of  plate.  Vnto  my  brother  Master  William  ffoorthe  and  his  wife, 
my  bro:  Blowers  and  his  wife  :  my  cozens  William  Cawby  Esquire  and  his  wife,  Master  William 
Smith  and  to  his  wife,  Doctor  ffoorthe  and  his  wife,  Master  John  ffoorthe  and  to  his  wife.  To 

Master  Thomas  ffoorthe  and  to  his  wife  the  summe  of  hue  pounds  a  peece  to  be  paid  vnto  every 

of  them.  Vnto  my  cozin  Robert  fforthe  the  summe  of  tenn  pounds.  All  my  wearing  apparrell  to 
my  sister  Mary  ffoorthe  and  Martha  Blowers  equally.  All  my  plate  and  lioushold  stuffe  vnto  said 
sister  Martha  Blowers  and  to  my  nephewe  Doctour  ffoorthe,  my  executor,  equallie.  Vnto  my  cozin 
Ann  Barrachis  the  wife  of  Richard  Barilis  [stc]  of  Hacknay,  twentie  pounds.  Vnto  my  cozen  Mary 


115 


FORTH  OF  HADLEIGH. 

Ray  of  Ipswich  twentie  shillings.  Item  I  doe  constitute  my  nephewe  Doctor  William  ffoorthe  full 
and  sole  executor.  Item  I  doe  make  my  brother  ffoorthe  and  my  brother  Blowers  overseers.  This 
twelveth  of  Aprill  1657.  The  marke  of  Elizabeth  Dell.  Published  in  the  presence  of  Sarah 
ffoorthe,  Anne  West,  Phebe  Brown.  Proved  6th  August  1657,  by  the  oath  of  William  ffoorthe, 
the  evecutor  named  in  the  will.  Cur.  Pnerog.  Cant.  295  Ruthen. 

Amongst  the  marriage  "licences  granted  by  the  Bishop  of  London  in  1611,  is  that  dated  20 
June  which  relates  to  Elizabeth  Dell’s  half  sister,  Mary  Barker.  The  entry  in  the  Bishop’s  books, 
which  I  quote  from  the  “Genealogical  Gleanings”  of  Mr.  H.  F.  Waters,  stands  thus: — “William 
Foorth  of  London,  gen1,  bachelor,  about  30,  son  of  William  Foorth  late  of  Hadleigh,  Suffolke,  Esq. 
deceased,  and  Mary  Barker  of  London,  maiden,  about  17.  daughter  of  Richard  Barker  late  of 
Neyland,  Suffolk,  yeoman,  deceased,  with  consent  of  Mary  Bright  als  Barker  of  St.  Edmondsbury, 
Suffolk,  her  natural  mother ;  as  testified  by  Danet  Poyntell  of  St.  Mary  Aldermary,  Merchant  ;  at 
St.  Leonard’s  Bromley,  Middlesex.”  ' 


SStiU  of  Militant  Jfortlj,  1671« 

William  ffoorth  Dr  of  Law.  I  committ  my  soule  into  ye  hand  of  ye  Lord,  and  my  Body  to 
the  earth,  to  be  carried  no  further  than  from  my  dwelling  house  in  Higate  to  the  Chappell  there,  to 
be  interred  with  as  little  vaine  pomp  and  charge  as  may  bee.  To  my  brothers  and  sisters  ffive 
pounds  a  piece  to  buy  them  mourning.  Item,  Vnto  all  the  comissioners  &  ffarmers  of  the  London 
Excise  rings  of  twenty  shill,  a  piece.  To  my  deare  and  loving  wife  Margarett  fforth  all  my  goods 
except  what  I  have  settled  by  Deed.  Vnto  my  said  wife  tenne  pounds  a  year  after  my  sister 
Cawleys  decease.  Item,  All  my  Bookes  vnto  William  ffoorth  sonn  to  my  bro:  Tho:  ffoorth,  except 
wh*  English  books  my  wife  will  reserve  for  her  owne  reading.  She  full  and  sole  executrix. 
Probatum  vltimo  die  Junij  1671  jur  Relicte  Margaret®  ffoorthe.  The  will  is  sans  date. 

Cur.  Prserog.  Cant.  76  Duke. 


ttljanarg  IJrac^iungs,  jfortb  z  Jfortlj.  16S0- 

February  1st  1680.  William  ffoorth  of  the  Vniversity  of  Cambridge  Gent.,  Complainant.  One 
William  ffoorth,  late  of  the  parish  of  Sfc  Giles’  in  the  Fields  co.  Middx,  Doctor  of  Lawes,  vnkle  to 
yr  Orator,  had  the  Manor  of  Easthall  in  ffeltwell  co.  Norfolk,  by  lease  of  Christ’s  College  Cambridge, 

for  one  and  twenty  years.  The  said  Dr  ffoorth,  by  Indenture,  dated  23d  June  in  the  twenty  first 

year  of  his  Mat,es  reign,  between  the  said  Dr  ffoorth  and  Margarett  his  wife  and  Mary  ffoorth, 
mother  of  the  said  Dr  ffoorth  of  the  one  pte,  and  Thomas  ffoorth,  Citizen  and  Merchant  Taylor  of 

London,  brother  of  said  Dr  ffoorth  and  father  of  yor  Orator,  of  the  other  pte,  for  money  paid  by 

the  said  Thomas,  did  settle  the  said  premises  on  yor  Orator  his  nephew  and  on  said  Thomas  ffoorth 
yor  Orators  father.  Dr  William  ffoorth  died  without  issue.  Mary  ffoorth  his  mother  also  died.  rl  he 
indenture  is  referred  to  in  Dr  ffoorth’s  will  dated  27  April  1671.  Afterwards  Margaret  ffoorth,  now 
widow  of  Dr  ffoorth,  confederating  with  Thomas  ffoorth  and  Dannett  ffoorth  of  London  Esqr,  eldest 
brother  and  heire  of  the  said  Doctor,  to  defraud  yor  Orator,  detain  the  evidences,  leases,  Ac.,  giving 
out  that  Thomas  ffoorth  made  default  of  paying  the  said  money. 

Answer  of  Margaret  ffoorth  relict  and  executrix  of  Dr  William  ffoorth.  The  premises  yet  are 
demised  to  the  said  Thomas  ffoorth  at  a  yearely  rent  of  one  hundred  and  forty  pounds.  Thomas 
ffoorth  was  questioned  for  a  bankrupt.  He  hath,  she  believeth,  the  said  College  leases  in  Ins 
custodie.  Clianc.  Proc.  Whittington  II.  204. 


116 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ffltU  nf  JFranas  JFortl),  1725. 

ffrar.ces  ffoorth  of  Hadleigh,  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  spinster.  To  be  buried  with  my  sisters 
in  Hadleigh  church.  My  copyhold  messuage  called  the  Angel  in  Hadleigh  to  my  ffriend  John  Turner 
of  Hadleigh,  blacksmith,  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever,  also  my  share  of  land  &c.  late  the  property  of  John 
fforth,  gent,  deceased,  which  came  to  me  as  next  heir  upon  the  death  of  my  sister  Elizabeth 
Waynforth.  A  gravestone  or  monument  with  an  inscription  of  mine  and  my  sisters  deaths  to  be 
placed  in  Hadleigh  church.  The  rest  of  my  goods  to  the  said  John  Turner,  he  to  be  sole  executor. 
Probate  6th  November  1725  to  John  Turner.  P.C.C.  228  Romney. 


Jfortlj  Urass  in  HaMnglj  ffiijttrcb. 

At  the  top  are  the  Crest  and  Shield  of  Forth: — Quarterly  of  six,  1.  Forth.  2.  Powell. 
3.  Breakspere.  4.  Gwarrindy.  5.  Morley.  6.  Vaughan.  The  inscription  is  in  capital  letters, 
spaced  as  follows  : — 

“  Here  lyeth  buried  the  bodies  of 
William  Foorthe  Esquier  who  died  the 
14  day  of  September  Ano  Dhi  1599  & 

Of  Dorothie  his  wife  daughter  &  coheire 
Of  Richard  Harvy  of  Worlingworth 
gent,  who  died  the  14  day  of  October 
Ann0  Dhi  1581.  Had  issue  4  sones  Phillip 
Edward  William  &  Nicholas  &  one 
daughter  Elizabeth  married  to 
Mr  Poyntell  of  London  marchant. 


“  But  what  noble  Buildings  these  were  before  the  Dissolution  of  the  Priory,  may  be  guessed 
at  by  the  Gate-house  &  other  Ruins  remaining  to  this  day.  Out  of  which  arose  the  Mansion 
House  now  called  the  Abbey.  ’Tis  an  old  decayed  irregular  structure  .  .  .  having  but  one  wing 
on  the  Front,  and  a  Portall  adorned  with  some  Pilasters  of  the  Dorick  Order,  two  below  and  as 
many  above,  all  of  Freestone,  as  is  also  the  Entablement.  Over  the  Door  are  the  Arms  of  Forthe ; 
Gules  two  bends  vaire,  on  a  canton  ore  a  demi-greyhound  currant  sable ;  impaled  with  Glemham 
Ore,  a  chevron  gules  between  three  Torteaux ;  and  on  each  side  thereof  their  Crests. 

“  The  Gate  hath  for  Ornament  two  Pilasters  &  their  Pedestals  of  Freestone,  together  with 
the  following  Arms.  First,  a  little  above  the  Pilasters  on  the  Outside,  Forth,  &  three  Lyoncells 
rampant;  [Powell],  Under  the  Pediment  a  Lyon  rampant  [Morley];  and  a  little  above  the 
Pilasters  on  the  Inside  ;  1.  Three  flowers  de  lis  [Gwaringdu]  ;  2.  On  a  cross  five  mullets  [Broken- 
spear]  ;  and  under  the  Pediment,  A  chevron  between  three  Moor’s  Heads,  couped  at  the  shoulders, 
and  as  many  snakes  wrapped  about  their  necks  [Vaughan]. 

“  The  Wainscot  in  the  Dyning  Room  hath  been  very  Magnificent  <fc  ornamentall,  painted  of 
a  Copper  Colour  &  adorned  with  fluted  Columns  &  Pilasters  of  the  Dorick  Order  ;  the  whole  very 


FORTH  OF  HADLEIGH. 


117 


copiously  embellished  with  Gilding ;  the  gold  being  reported  not  to  have  cost  less  than  fifty  pounds. 
The  Cieling  is  adorned  with  Pannels  of  Crochett  work,  and  the  windows  with  Coats  of  Arms  of 
Stained  glaBS.  The  East  window  contains  these:  1.  Umphreys  : — Gules  a  lyon  rampant  ore,  armed 
and  langued  azure,  a  Ducal  coronet  in  Chief  of  the  second  ;  impaled  with  Frere,  Ore  two  leopards 

faces  in  pale  gules,  between  two  flaunches  of  the  Second.  2.  Musket : — Argent,  six  leopards  faces 

gules,  three  two  and  one,  between  two  bars  of  the  second  ;  impaled  with  Cock  : — Ore  a  fess  between 
two  lyons  passant,  gules,  armed  and  langued  azure.  And  in  the  North  window  are  these  : — 
1.  Musket,  empaled  with  Cannon  : — Gules  a  Bend  argent  between  two  Cottises  ore  charged  with 
a  Torteaux :  2.  Umphreys  impaled  with'  Dandy  : — Quarterly  Azure  and  ore,  on  the  first  a  mullet 

of  the  second:  3.  Umphreys  impaled  with  Musket:  4.  Musket  impaled  with  Abel  : — Argent  a  saltire 
engrailed  azure.  And  under  the  Pediment  of  the  Door  Case  in  the  same  Room  are  two  Coats 
quarterly.  1  &  4.  Forth ;  2  &  3.  Party  per  chevron,  sable  &  argent,  two  covered  Cups  in  chief 

of  the  second,  and  three  Spiders  in  base  of  the  first :  impaled  with  Gules  a  Lyon  passant  ore, 

armed  and  langued  azure  :  with  a  Crest  of  Forth :  a  Bears  Head  erased  sable,  muzzled  Ore.” 

The  Humphries  were  connections  and  probably  ancestors  of  John  Clyatt  who  married  Elizabeth 
Devereux  the  ultimate  heiress  of  the  Forthes. 

Ford’s  “Suffolk  Collections,”  Lib.  Bod.  MS.  Top.  Suffolk,  d.  12,  p.  415. 


Jfortfj  Suffolk  Uxsifatton,  1612. 

Taken  between  “Mondy  ye  12  of  August”  and  “Saterday  ye  24  of  August,”  1611,  by  John 
Raven,  Richmond  Herald,  as  deputy  to  William  Camden,  Clarencieux  King  of  Arms. 

Willm  Forth  of  Hadleigh  in  suff:  esqr  mar:  yc  d.  &  h:  of  Powell  of  Wales  &  had  issue 

Robt  first  Philogus  2d  sone  Willm  3d  Edward  4  Israel  ye  5  sone  of  Witt  Forth  John  6  Eliza 
&  Katherine. 

Wiilm  ye  3d  sone  of  Willm  esqr  mar:  Dorathey  d:  of  Richard  Harvie  of  Worlingworth  in  Suff: 
Gent:  &  had  issue  Phillip  first  Willm  2d  Nicholas  3d. 

Phillip  Forth  of  Hadleighe  sone  &  h:  of  Willm  Gent  mar:  Jane  d:  &  sole  heire  of  Thomas 
Walton  of  hadleigh  esqr  &  hath  issue  Willm  sone  &  h:  age  9  John  age  7  Phillip  age  5  Eliza  age  1. 

llarl.  MS.,  No.  1820. 

The  Forthe  pedigree  in  HarL  MS.  1820,  which  is  supposed  to  have  been  the  note  book  used  by 
Raven  during  the  progress  of  his  Visitation,  agrees  with  the  official  record  in  the  Herald’s  College. 
The  tricking  of  arms  which  accompanies  the  latter  is  Quarterly  of  Six;  1,  Forthe;  Gules  two  bends 
vaire  argent  and  sable:  on  a  canton  or  a  demi-grey hound  couped,  courant  of  the  third  :  2,  Powell; 
Per  pale  azure  and  gules  three  lions  rampant  argent  :  3,  Brokenspeare ;  Argent  on  a  cross  gules  five 

mullets  or:  4,  Gwaringdu;  Per  pale  azure  and  sable  three  fleur  de  lys  or:  5,  Morley  ;  Argent  a  lion 
rampant  sable  crowned  gules  :  6,  Vaughan  ;  Sable  three  boys  heads  couped  at  the  shoulders  proper^ 
crined  or,  having  snakes  enwrapped  about  their  necks  vert.  Harl.  MS.  1560,  fo.  276b,  gives  an 
additional  quartering : — Odiam  ;  Per  chevron  ermine  and  ermines,  three  covered  cups ;  the  two  in 
chief  sable,  and  the  one  in  base  argent.  This  follows  immediately  upon  Forthe,  preceding  Powell 
and  the  rest. 


118 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


rffortl)  iktitgrce,  Canbler  Mi 

Matthias  Candler's  Pedigrees  of  Forth,  Harl.  MS.  6071,  pp.  449  and  494,  collated 

with  Tanner  MSS,  180,  156,  and  257,  478 . 


Forthe.=F 


I 

Robert  Forth  of  Butley  in  Suff  Esq.  a  man  famous =7=.  .  .  Glemham. 
for  House-keeping  temp  Eliz  reigne. 


"l 

I  Vm  Forth  of  Had- 
leigh  Esq. 


.  .  .  Forthe  Esq: 
he  trauclled  and 
returned  not:  his 
wife  had  a  child 
but  he  disowned 
it. 


Mary  married  to 
Sr  Thomas  Bam- 
bergh  A  after  his 
death  to  L  Fts- 
cuunt  Fairfax. 


Martha  married 
to  Sr  Tho  Hayes 
A  after  his  death 
to  Sr  Richard 
Young. 


~r 


married 
to  Sr  .  .  . 
.  .  .  Knt. 


Anne  married  1st  to  Good- 
day  of  Preston  Hall :  her 
second  husband  was  Owen 
Tasborough  :  a  daur  of 
hers  was  married  to  Wm 
Copinger  of  Buxhall  Esq: 


Eliza¬ 
beth  2 
wife 
to  Jo 
Ran¬ 
ey. 


Wm  Forth  of 
Nettlested  Esq  : 
many  children: 
Wm  Dr  0f 
Lawes  and  many 
others:  John  Ac. 


Amie  1st  married  to  Robt  Gosnold  Esq1'  of 
Otley  of  whom  the  Gosnolds  of  Otley. 
HcrS't  husRl  was  Edioard  .  .  .  Mendham 
by  whom  she  had  Amie  Ward  married 
to  Edward  Malbye  Esq.  and  Henry  Ward 
who  had  iij  daughters. 


gr  Wm  =p  Dorothie  eld-— Gresham  —  Wm  Tirrell 


Forth 
Knt  of 
Butley 
Abbey. 


est  daughter 
of  Sr  John 
Gilbert  Knt  of 
Finborough. 


Perkens 
Sit  hus¬ 
band. 


of  Bury 
Abby  Esq 
3d  hus¬ 
band.  (See 
below). 


Anne  married 
to  Wm  Ruffe  of 
Hadleiyh  Esq 
had  a  daughter 
married  to  ... 
Carey  Esq. 


PhiUip =j=.. 


Forth 
of  Had. 
leigh. 


daugh¬ 


ter  A  heire 
of  Walton 
of  Had- 
leigh. 


Capt  Will- 
Forth  of 
Butley 
Esq. 


Anne  daughter— William  Tirrell  of  Bury  Abbey 


_ 1 


of  Browne  of 
Essing  hall  in 
Norff  sone  of  Sr 
Antonij. 


Esq  her  2  Husband  had  bee  re 
3  Husband  to  ye  Lady  Forthe 
her  1st  husbands  mother:  he  had 


John  Forth— Mary  daughter  of— Tho  Southioell 
of  Hadleiyh  Harbottle  Wing-  Esq  her  2  lius- 
Esq.  field  of  Crofiehl  band. 

Esq.  Royal  descent. 


— r.l 
Philip. 

Robert. 


no  1  ssue. 


A  daughter  named  Anne  married  to  Walter  Devereux 
Esqre  second  sone  to  Sr  Walter  Devereux  Knt  Viscount 
Hereford. 


Forth,  g.  on  ij  bends  verry  or  A  sa  :  on  a  canton  of  the  1st  a  demi 
grahound  coupe  current  sa. 

I  suppose  ye  bends  are  rather  Arg.  A  B  in  Mr  Leverland's  booke. 


fforthe.  g.  ij  bends  verrey  arg.  and  sa.  (or  Arg.  and  B.)  on  a  canton  or,  a  demi  greyhound 
cursant  sa. 

Robert  fforthe  Esq)  was  high  sheriffe  of  Suff  about  the  yeare  1596.  His  chiefe  house  was  Butley 
Abbey  which  he  left  to  his  sonne  Sr  William  fforthe  Knt.  and  he  to  his  sonne  William  fforthe  Esq), 
who  had  only  one  daughter  named  Anne  married  to  Walter  Devereux  Esq),  second  sonne  of  Sr  Walter 
Devereux  Knt  Viscount  Hereford,  now  living  1659. 

William  fforthe  of  Hadleigh  Esq),  a  yonger  brother  of  Robert,  left  Philip  fforth  of  Hadleigh 
Esq),  and  his  eldest  sonne  ivas  John  fforth  of  Hadleigh  Esq),  whose  sonne  Philip  fforth  is  now  living 
1659  and  vnder  age.  Since  dead  166 j. 

William  fforthe  of  Nettlested  Esq),  a  yonger  brother  of  Philip,  purchased  lands  of  the  E.  of 
Cleveland  in  Nettlested  and  built  an  handsome  small  house  thereupon,  but  after  sold  the  Estate  to 
Robert  Leman  gent,  ivho  had  one  only  daughter  and  heire  married  first  to  Thomas  Baker  of  Willing¬ 
ham  hall  in  ffresingfeld,  by  whom  she  had  no  issue,  and  after  his  death  to  the  Lord  Goring,  so  called 
because  his  father  teas  created  E.  of  Nonvich  after  K.  Charles  had  left  the  Parliamt.  The  children 
of  Wm  fforthe  Esq }  viz : — Wm,  Dr  of  Laives,  John  &c.  have  but  a  small  estate  in  Suff.  neither  live 
they  in  the  county  this  yeare  1659. 

From  Candler’s  “  Names  and  Armes  of  Sundry  of  the  Gentlemen  of 
Suffolk,”  &c.,  Tanner  MS.,  Lib.  Bodleian,  226,  p.  53. 


FORTH  OF  HADLEIGH. 


119 


jFortl)  of  italiletgl). 


William  Forth  of  Hadleigh,  co.  Suffolk  ;  Iuq.  p.m.  20  H.  7  ;  had  Coddenham  Hall  Manor  in  Boxford. 
6  Aug.  1504.  Will,  P.C.C.  19  Holgrave,  proved  24  Aug.  1504  ;  names  son-in-law,  Thomas  Baldrey,  &c. 


Ob.= 


= Margaret,  named 
husband’s  will. 


her 


Alice,  ux  Roger 
Martin  of  Bong 
Melford,  Harl. 
MS.  1560,  who 
made  willP.C.C. 
20  April  1535  ; 
proved  1542. 


Robert  Forth  of  Hadleigh, = 
s.  and  h.,  20  H.  7.  then  tet. 
30.  Inq.  p.m.  32  H.  8.  ;  ob. 
27  July  154a  ;  Will  P.C.C. 
11  Alenger,  24  July  32  H,  &; 
prob1  16  Sept  1540  ;  had 
manors  in  Suffolk  and  Essex. 


.  .  .  d.  and  h.  of 
Odiam;  s  3  cover¬ 
ed  cups  arg.  Harl. 
MS.  1560.  A  Brid¬ 
get  Odiam  m.  Wil¬ 
liam  Warren,  and 
their  son  John  mar, 
Dorothy  Forth. 


Dorothy,  ux.  John  Warren 
of  Newton,  co.  Suff.  ;  she 
was  aunt  to  Wm.  Forth, 
who  calls  Roger  Warren 
her  son  and  The3-  Ala¬ 
baster  her  son-in-law 
cousins  in  1559  ;  herdau. 
m.  Arthur  Vesey. 


Elizabeth,  ux  Sir  Thomas  Baldrey,  Lord  Mayor 
of  London,  who  names  his  brothers  Roger  Mar¬ 
tin  and  Robert  Forth  in  his  will,  A0 1534,  P.C.C 
17  Hogen.  Elizabeth  Baldrey  their  granddau1' 
■k  ultimate- heiress  married  the  second  Lord  Rich 
and  afterwards  Robert  Forth.  Essex  Visit n 
Harl.Soc.  Forarmsof  ‘ladyElizabethBawdrey, 
Baldrey  impaling  Forth,  see  Stoice  MS.  602. 


i — l - 

Martin  Forth,  s.  and 
h.,  32  H.  8,  aud  then 
set.  24  ;  had  manor 
of  CoddenhamHalliu 
Boxford. 

Katherine,  32  H.  8, 
perhaps  the  wife  of 
.  .  .  Vesey,  1559. 


Ann,ux01iver 
Dawbeuey  of 
London,  mer¬ 
chant,  Harl. 
MS. 1560.  See 
Fine  Trin.  S3 
H ,S\Dauheney 
and  Forthe. 


-  V  illiam  Forth  of  Had¬ 
leigh,  Esq. ;  bought  But- 
leyAbbey,  36  H.  8.  Will 
P.C.C. 7Mellershel  Mar. 
1  Mary  ;  prob1  9  Jan. 
1559  ;  names  brother 
Edward  Morse,  cousins 
Warren  and  Alabaster. 
Iuq.  p.m.  1  Eliz.  1,  87. 


^Elizabeth,  d.  and  h.  of 
1  Powell  of  Wales  ;  mar. 
1540  ;  executrix  to 
husbd  1559.  They  sold 
Coddenham  Hall  Ma¬ 
nor,  1  E.  6,  to  Wm 
Risby.  Fine  Easter 
1547.  See  Powell  of 
Wales. 


2.  Philologus  Forth=pMary  d.  aud  coheire 


of  John  Wiseman 
of  Thornham  in 
high  Suff.,  Harl. 
MS.  1560,  by  Elea¬ 
nor,  sister  and  coh. 
of  Charles  Cutler 
of  Eye. 


5.  Edward  Forth 
He  m.  Susan,  d.  of 
George  Cry  mble  of 
Rochford  in  Essex, 
after  3  wifedoTho3 
Goldingnf  Posling- 
ford.  See  Forth, 
Crymble,  Bode. 


ofWitnesham.  Gent. 

“  my  2d  son  ”  1559. 

Fine  16  Eliz.  Philo¬ 
logus  and  Mary 
Forth.  Manors  in 
Breisworth,  &c.,  co. 

Suff.,  late  Edmund 
Wiseman’s,  Gent, 

I - 1 — 1 - 1 

Ann  Forth,  Elizabeth,  33  Philologus  Forth,  s.  of  Philo- 
33  Eliz.,  de-  Eliz.  logus  Forth  of  Ipswich,  god- 

visee  of  Richd  —  son,  1589,  to  Alice  Whetcroft, 

Whetcroft,  Katherine,  33  w,f|;  so  in  her  will,  Cur.  Ep.  N  ; 

Clerk.  Eliz.  devisee  of  Riclid  Whetcroft,  33 

Eliz.  in  will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 


Julian,  wife  of  Edward 
Morse  of  Stratford,  co. 
Suffolk,  clothier,  whose 
will,  P.C.C.  51  Wrast- 
ley,  is  dated  13  Nov. 
1557,  his  “brother” 
William  Forth,  Esq., 
being  executor. 


Mary,  devisee,  32  H.  8, 
with  her  sisters  Julian 
and  Katherine  in  their 
father’s  will  ;  wife  of 
.  .  .  Brewse,  1559  ; 
Query  of  Giles  Brewse 
of  Denton,  co-.  Norfolk, 
Esq.  ?  Blais. 


4.  Israel  Forth  of  Had¬ 
leigh.  His  2d  w.  was 
Margaret,  d.  of  Tho3 
Ferneley  of  Creting,  and 
mother  of  Gresham  Per¬ 
kins,  Esq.,  Harl.  MS. 
1560,  Forth  and  Perkins 
Pedigrees.  By  her  no 
issue. 


1st 


wile. 


Catherine,  ux 
Edmond  Man- 
nock  of  Hol¬ 
ton  in  Suffolk, 
2d  son  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Mannock 
of  Worming- 
ford  ;  under 
age  A0  1559. 


6.  John  Forth  of 
Great  Stambridge 
in  Essex,  Gent.= 
Thomasine  Hilles,  wi¬ 
dow  of  GeorgeCrym- 
ble.  Will  Arch.  Es¬ 
sex  1613.  See  Forth, 
Crymble,  Bode. 


Jane  Forth,  da.  of 
Israeli  Forthe  of 
Kersey,  devisee  of 
Isaac  Smith,  31 
Eliz.  in  will  P.C.C. 
37  Leicester. 


Robert  Forth, 
devisee  of  Is¬ 
aac  Smith  31 
Eliz.  and  then 
under  age. 


Elizabeth  Forth, 
devisee  of  Isaac 
Smith  31  Eliz. 
She  and  her  sis¬ 
ter  then  under 
age. 


i - 

Mary,  dau.  and 
sole  heiress,  b. 
1  Jan.  1583  ;  ux 
John  Winthrop, 
Esq.;  afterGov.of 
Massachusetts. 


1.  Robert  Forth  of  But-=f  Margaret,  d.  of  Edward 


T 


ley,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  s. 
and  h.  Fine  11  Eliz 
Butley  Priory  late  Wm 
Forthe  his  father’s. 
Will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  2 
Feb.  1600. 


Glemham  of  Glemham  in 
Suff.,  her  mother  Mary 
Glemham  of  Benhall,  w°, 
in  will  P.C.C.  1  Holney, 
13  May  1568,  names  her 
/[\and  her  two  children. 


See  Forth  of  Butley 


William  Forth  of^Dorothy,  d.  of  Richard  Harvey  ^=.  .  .  -d.  of  Kene,  Elizabeth. 
Hadleigh  Esq.,  3d 
son.  Brass  in  Had¬ 
leigh  Church.  Ob. 

14  Sept.  1599.  Will 
P.C.C.  73  Kidd 
proved  3  Oct.  1599. 


of  M’orling worth,  co.  Suff.  by 
Johan,  d.  and  h.  of  Keene. 
Her  sister,  Anne  Ashfield,  in 
will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  30  Eliz  , 
names  her  and  the  Fortlis.  She 
ob.  14  Oct.  1581.  Brass  in  Had¬ 
leigh  Church. 


2d  wife.  Harl.  MS. 
1560.  Dau1'  pro¬ 
bably  of  Keen  of 
Starston,  Norlf. 
Forth  c.  Bacon, 
Eliz.  B.  dk  A. 


Anne  and 

Katherine, 

ob.  s.p. ; 

Admons. 

P.C.C. 

1562. 


1.  Philip  Forth=j=Joan,d.  and  Dannett  Poyn-=ElizabethForth.=John  Ranye,  citn 


of  Hadleigh,  Esq.  sole  heir  of 
Will  P.C.C.  119  Thom.Wal- 
Twisse,  12  April  ton  of  Had- 
1642;  probate  31  |  leigh  ;  sole 
Aug.  1646;  lands  j  exx.  to  her 
in  Lopham,  Norff . ;  |  husband, 
names  “  cousiu  I 
Winthrop." 

L. 


tell,  1st  husbd. 
mar.  settR  of 
his  widow  with 
John  Raney, 
1625,  was  of 
London,  Merchb 


She  made  will 
as  Eliz.  Ranye, 
of  Hadleigh,  w°, 
P.C.C.  35  Eve¬ 
lyn,  17  Nov. 
1640  ;  prob1  19 
March. 


and  draper  of  Lon¬ 
don.  WillP.CC. 
30  Russell  25  Feb. 
1631  ;  prob  6  Ap1 
1633  ;  issue  by  1st 
wife  ;  bequest  to 
Philip  and  Wm 
Forth. 


3.  Nicholas 
Forth  sold 
his  lands  in 
Roydon,  Suf¬ 
folk,  to  his 
brother  Phi¬ 
lip  Forthe. 


Wm  Forth  of  =j=Mary,  dau.  of 
Nayland,  Gent,  |  Richard  Barker 


1 620,  2d  son  ; 
of  Barking,!  631; 
of  Nettlestead, 
Blois.  Named 
in  1st  will  of 
John  Winthrop. 


of  Nayland,  co. 
Suff  ;  mar.  161 1 , 
half-sister  to 
H  enry  Bright  of 
New  England,  & 
Elizabeth  Dell. 


m - 

1  William  Forth 
dead  in  1642. . 

'  3.Philip  “my  2d 
son,”  1642. 

4. Robert, youn¬ 
gest  son,  1642. 


1 - 

2.  John  Forth1 
of  Hadleigh, 
eldest  son  and 
heir  to  his 
father,  1642. 
His  dan3  are 
named  in  the 
Blais  MS, 


=M  ary  ,d.  of  Har-=J  ohn  Southwell 


bottle  V  mg. 
field  of  Crow- 
field  in  Suff., 2d 
wife  to  South- 
well.  A  dm. 
Arch.  Suff  1674 
to  her  daus. 


of  Barham,  co. 
Suff  ,  Esq.,  2d 
husband.  Will 
P.C.C.103Bow- 
yer,7Nov  1650; 
ob.  s.p.  neices 
V  aldegrave 
named. 


- 1 - 

Elizabeth, ux 
Wm  Walde- 
grave,  gent. 
1642,  when 
she  had  da. 
Jem’mah 
Walde- 
grave. 


Anne,  ux 
Robert  Ve¬ 
sey,  Gent., 
1642. 

Mary,  ux 
Jo.  South- 
well,  Esq., 
1642. 


Wnl  Forth,  LL.D. 
devisee  of  his 
aunt  Dell,  1657. 
Will  P.C.C.  76 
Duke,  proved 
June  1671,  by 
Margaret  bis 
relict.  Ob.  s.p. 


Dannett 
Forth  of  Lon¬ 
don,  Esq.,  el¬ 
der  brother. 

JoForthel659 

RobertForthe 
living  1657. 


— I 

Thomas 
Forth,  citi¬ 
zen  and  mer¬ 
chant  tailor 
of  London, 
Feb.  1680 
Forth  c.  Forth 
IVhittington 
II.  20 If. 


Philip  Forth,  devisee  of  his 
grandfather  and  his  aunt  Raney. 
Under  age  1659  ;  dead  1664. 


T 


Jane  Forth,  ob.  1710, 
a;t.63.  M  I.  in  Hadleigh 
Church.  Ob.  s.p. 


T 


Frances Forth,  ob.l724s.p. 
M.I.  in  Hadleigh  Church. 
Will  P.C.C.  228  Romney. 


Elizabeth,  ux 
Waynforth. 
Ob.  s.p. 


Wm  Forth  of  Cambridge.  Gent,  16  80; 
devisee  of  Dr  Forthe  his  uncle,  1671. 


120 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


jforti)  of  Butleg. 


Robert  fforth  of  Tin  thy  in  com.  Stiff.  Esq. 
Fine  11  Eliz.,  I’.utley  Priory  late  Wil- 
liamForth’s  his  father’s;  uncle  to  Mary 
Winthrop  ;  High  Sheriff  1569  ;  Inq. 
p.m.  43  Eliz.  ;  Will  Cur.  Ep.  Norvv.  2 
Feb.  1600,  proved  2  March  1600. 


Sir  Thomas  Hayes  Martha.  1.  m.  to  Sr  Thom  Hayes=Sir  Richard  Young, 
Knt,  Lord  Mayor  of  Knt  it-  Alderman  of  London.  2.  Knt,  2d  husband. 
London,  1616.  to  Sr  Richard  Yong  K"1  Secretary 

to  the  lord  Chancellor  Bacon. 


.  .  .  ux  Pening. 

Margerie  vx  John 
Rogers  of  Essex, 
1600. 

.  .  .  vx  Vale. 


Amy,  1568,  tx  Edward 
XVarde  of  Mendham  in 
Stiff,  living  A0  1631, 
when  Frances  Tasburgh 
made  her  will.  “  Rob. 
Gosnoldof  Oatley,  Esq., 
1st  husband.”  Blois. 


Anne  vx  W illm  Roll e  of  Hadley, 
com  Suff. whoob.24Ap.22Jac.; 
Escheat  22  Jac. ;  she  adminis¬ 
tered  the  estate  of  Robt.  Rolfe, 
her  father-in-law,  1622,  she 
being  then  a  widow ;  she  renupt. 
Arthur  Jenney,  Esq.  Blois. 


-Frances,  d.  of  Edward  Glemham  of 
Glemham  in  Stiff.  Her  mother,  Marie 
Glemham, names  her  and  her  children 
in  her  will  P.C.C.  41  Holney,  1568. 
She  is  said  to  have  married  2dly  Sir 
Henry  Warner  of  Mildenhall,Kt.  Blois. 


SirWilliamBambor— 
ough,  grandson  of 
Wm.  Bamboroughof 
Rendlesham,  1572. 


-Mary,  1.  vx  Sr  M’m.=Thomas,  1st Viscount 
Bamboroughof  York-  Fairfax,  so  created 
shire  Knt  2  to  Thom,  in  1 628  ;  no  issue  by 
Viscount  Fairfax.  Mary  Forth. 


John  Herring  oi==ffra nces  vx  Richard  Good-=Q wtn  Tasburgh  of 


Mendham, 
Suffolk,  gent., 
second  husband; 
she  was  his 
second  wife. 


day  of  Kettlebaston  in 
‘•'tiff. ,  by  whom  she  had 
fforthe  Goodday,  &c. ;  she 
made  will  as  ffrances  Tas¬ 
burgh  of  Mendham  20 
Marclil631,Cur.Ep.Norw. 


1 .  Charlesfforth  of=j 
Butley  in  com.  I 
Suff. ;  “  disin- 
her(1,”  Bluis;  de¬ 
visee  of  his 
grandmother 
Glemham,  1568. 


-Elizabeth,  d. 
it  heire  of 
John  Jerne- 
gan  of  Som- 
erleyton  in 
Suff. 


2  Sr  JVillm  fforth  of -j- Dor athie  d.  it  co-=^=Gresham  Parkins  of  Had-—WilliamTyrrell  ot  BvryAb- 


Butley  in  Suff.  bro¬ 
ther  it-  heire  ;  Will 
P.C.C.  107  Dale,  7 
Dec.  10  Jas  ;  then  of 
Farnham,  Suff.,  Knt  ; 
prob1  11  Dec.  1621. 


heire  ot  Sr  John 
Gilbert  of  ffnborow 
hall  in  com.  Suff. 
renupt,  and  had 
son,  Chas.  Perkins. 


ley  and  after  of  Butley, 
Esq.  His  will  P.C.C.  133 
Clarke  24  July  1625;  prob4 
1 9  Nov.  to  Dame  Dorothy, 
his  relict;  bequest  toWm. 

4\Forthe,  wife’s  son. 


bey  Esq.  3<1  husband  to  ye 
LadyForth.  Harl.MS.607l. 
H  e  was  after  2d  husband  to 
Anne  Forth  her  dau. -in¬ 
law;  Will  P.C.C.  447  Ruth- 
ven  30  July  1657.  Ob.  s.p. 


Mendham,  co.  Suff. 
gent,  3d  husband, 
1631.  He  mar. 
Frances  Goodday, 
w°,  circa  5  Feb.,  6 
Chas. 

•~i 

Robert 
Forth. 
Blois. 
2d  son, 
under 
age  in 
1600. 


tt 


d.  A:  sole  heire 
vx  Sr  Philip  Kni- 
vett  of  Bucknan  in 
Norff.  Knt  &  Bar¬ 
onet. 

Francis  Fortlie, 
heir  to  his  grand¬ 
father  43  Eliz., 
then  cet.  8. 


1.  Henry  ob  yong 
at  Farnham,  co. 
Suff.  22  Aug.  12 
Jas  ; '  son  and  h. 
19  Jas;  Inq.  p.m. 
12  Jas  ;  his  bro- 
therW  m.  Fortlie 
then  ait.  5,  being 
heir-at-law. 


2.  Willem  fforth  o1~- 
Butley  Esqr  Cap¬ 
tains  of  the  trayncd 
Band.  Will  P.C.C. 
74  Rivers  16  Feb. 
1642  ;  prob.  10 
May  1645;  wife 
sole  executrix  and 
heir. 


-Anned.of  Tho¬ 
mas  Browne 
ot  Elsing  in 
com.  Norfolk. 
She  re-mar. 
Wm.  Tyrrell, 
as  above. 


Dorathey,  ux.Nich- 
olas  Southcott  of 
London. gent.  Her 
Will,  P.C.C.  32  Ki- 
vers,  1  Aug.  ]  643. 
Chas.  Perkins,  her 
uterine  brother, 
and  Ann  Forth, 
her  sister-in-law, 
named  in  Decree. 


Elizabeth, 
incidental¬ 
ly  mention¬ 
ed  in  her 
father’s 
will,  “  my 
two  daugh¬ 
ters.” 


Walter 
eux,  of  Castle 
Bromwich,  co. 
Warwick,  5th 
Viscount  Here¬ 
ford  ;  cousin  to 
Robt.  Earl  of 
Essex,  temp.  2 
Elizabeth. 


Dever-=p  Elizabeth, 
da.  of  Thos. 
Knightley, 
Esqr  of  Bo¬ 
rough  Hall, 
co.  Stafford, 
and  widow  of 
Thomas  Mar¬ 
tin,  2d  wife. 


.1 - 

William 
ffoortli, 
clearly 
died  be¬ 
fore  his 
father. 


_ I 


Dorothy  Fortlie, 
devisee  with  her 
sister  Ann  in  her 
aunt  Southcott’s 
will,  1643. 


Anne,  sole  da.  &  heir-=pWalterDevereuxof  Butley  Abbey 


ess,  died  before  hus 
band.  She  mar  about 
the  year  1648 ;  Clyatt 


and  Glemham  Hall,  Esq.  ;  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.  6  Sept.  1682;  prob*-  6 
Jan.1683;  also  P.C.C.  3  Hare;  2d 
c.  Carr;  settled  lands  |  brother  to  Viscount  Hereford  ; 
on  eldest  da.  I  joined  wife  in  settlement  of  lands. 


Edward  Dever- 
eux  and  John 
Devereux  devi¬ 
sees  of  their 
brother  Walter 
Devereux  1682. 


Leicester,  6thViscount=pPriscilla,  da. 
Hereford;  had  Christ-  of  John 
church  in  Ipswich  with  Catchpole, 
Eliz.,d.&li. of  SirWm.  of  Suffolk, 
Withypol,his  1st  wife,  2d  wife, 
by  whom  no  issue.  ^ 


Leicester  Devereux, 
only  son  ;  died  circa 
1680  in  his  father’s 
lifetime,  Clyatt  c. 
Bateson. 


JohnClyattof Butley, gent. ;  Will1 
Arch.  Suff.  6  Oct.  1691 ;  prob1  27 
Sept  1694;  to  be  bur.  in  St.  Law¬ 
rence’s  Ch.  Ipswich;  ob.  s.p  ;  ma¬ 
nors  to  his  cousin,  SainuelClyatt, 
Esq.  Clyutt  c.  Bateson,  &c.,  &c. 


Klizabeth  Devereux,  eldest 
da.  and  coh.,  mar.  at  Hark- 
stead  13  Apr.  1682;  ob.  s.p.; 
manors  to  her  husband  by 
Fine  and  Recovery  cutting 
off  entail. 


William  Batteson  of- 
Bourton  on  the  Hill, 
co.  Gloucester,  gent., 
set.  26,  a0  1682.  and 
unmar.  See  Visit*1  of 
Gloucester,  Earl.  Soc. 


^Carolina  De¬ 
vereux,  2d 
da.  and  coh. 
of  Walter 
Devereux. 


Frances  Devereux, 
3d  da.  and  coh., 
mar,  Thomas  Vi- 
lett,  clerk.  Jer- 
myn  MSS. 


Leicester  Clyatt,  only  child,  died  in  his 
mother’s  lifetime;  M.I.  in  St.  Lawrence’s 
Ipswich,  where  he,  his  father  and  mother 
lie  buried  ;  bapt.  there  20  July  1G84  ; 
bur.  20  Oct.  same  year. 


Robert  Devereux  Batteson,  eldest  son, =i=  Anne,  2nd  dau. 


1702;  ob.  1736, act  45.  Arms — Arg.3bats 
wings  erect  sable  ;  on  a  chief  gules  a  lion 
passant  gardant  arg.  Batteson,  Bateson 
or  Batson.  Of  Bourton  on  the  Hill. 


of  Allen  Cliffe, 
of  Mathern,  co. 
Worcester. 


— i — i - 

Caroline. 

Frances. 


- 1  I  i 

Anne. 

Elizabeth. 

Eleanor. 


William  Batson  of  Bourton  on  the  Hill,  co.  Glouc.;=p.  .  .  dau.  of  . 
ob.  1819,  set.  90.  |  co.  Worcester. 

I - [- - 

A  son. 


Pytts  of  Kyre  Wyard,  Robert  Batson,  ob.  s.p.  Anne  Batson. 


The  portions  in  italics  are  taken  from  the  Forthe  pedigree,  Earl.  MS.  1560. 

For  the  story  of  Elizabeth  Devereux,  heiress  of  Butley  Abbey,  see  an  article  in  the  “East  Anglian,”  New  Series,  Vol,  iii,  138, 
entitled  “  A  Clandestine  Marriage,”  founded  upon  Chancery  Proceedings  amongst  the  rival  claimants  for  the  possession  of  her  estates, 
Clyatt  c.  Carr,  Whittington  II,  B.  &  A.  ;  Clyatt  c.  Devereux.  Whittington  II,  B.  &  A.  ;  Clyatt  c.  Hook,  Mitford  II,  B.  &  A. 
Clyatt  c.  Bateson,  Mitford  IV,  B.  &  A.,  &c.,  Ac.  Arms  of  Clyatt : — Arg.  a  bend  double  cotised  sa. 


jfortj),  CnmiOlr,  16  otic. 


Will  of  iitrljarir  QLrjmbk,  1541. 

I  Rycharde  Crymbill  of  Rocheforde  in  the  county  of  Essex,  gentilman,  make  this  my  present 
testament  and  laste  will.  ffurste  I  bequeth  my  soule  to  almighty  god  etc.  Also  I  geue  to  Sr 
Henry  Canne,  lately  parysshe  priste  of  Rocheforde,  viijh  to  thentent  that  the  forsaide  Sr  Henry 
Canne  shall  preache  gods  worde  Soundayes  and  holye  dayes  when  convenyently  he  may,  by  the 
space  of  one  yere,  whn  the  whiche  tyme  to  preache  tenne  sarmondes  at  Rocheforde,  tenne  sarmondes 
in  fFulnes,  tenne  sarmondes  at  Leigh,  and  tenne  sarmondes  at  Pakilsham,  and  fyve  sarmondes  at 
fobbinge,  and  five  sarmondes  at  Hever,  the  rest  where  he  shall  thincke  mooste  neadful  duringe 
the  saide  yere,  and  yf  the  saide  Sr  Henry  Canne  cannott  be  gotten  or  will  not  doo  it,  then  I 
will  that  myne  executors  shall  gett  some  other  to  doo  it,  and  yf  they  can  gett  none  to  do  yt, 
that  is  to  preache  the  woorde  of  god  syncerely  as  is  abovesaide,  then  I  will  that  myne  executors 
dyspose  the  saide  viij u  in  deedes  of  charitie  to  the  pore  people.  Item  I  geue  to  a  pore  priste 
to  singe  and  pray  for  my  soule  and  for  all  Xpen  soules  by  the  space  of  one  quarter  a  yere 

xxxiij8  iiijd.  Also  I  will  to  Agnes  my  wyfe  all  my  householde  that  is  not  bequethed.  Item  I 

will  to  the  saide  Agnes,  yn  consyderacon  and  for  the  paines  takinge  for  me,  my  lease  that  I  haue 
in  Estwicke  for  the  space  of  the  yeres  that  I  haue  yn  it.  And  yf  the  said  Agnes  my  wyfe 
fortune  to  depart  w'in  the  saide  terme  I  will  myne  exectours  enter  into  the  saide  ffarme  and 
yerely  to  pay  the  yerely  proffitts  therof  vnto  George  my  sonne  vnto  that  Rycharde  my  sonne  come 
to  the  age  of  xxju  yeres.  And  then  to  delyuer  the  saide  lease  stock  and  cattail  to  the  said 
George,  Rycharde  and  William  my  sonnes  equally  to  be  deuyded  among p  theyme.  And  yf  all 
they  depart  w’in  the  saide  terme  w'oute  heyres,  the  said  Agnes  being  departed,  then  I  will  all  the 
saide  lease  and  stoke  to  my  doughter  then  lyvinge.  Also  I  will  that  Thomas  Crymbill  the  sonne 
of  William  Crymbill  have  the  Indenture  that  was  made  accordinge  to  the  Indenture  that  was  made 
betwene  my  sister  Margery  Crymbill  and  me  as  touching  Rogewarde  in  fulnes.  Item  I  will  the 

yeares  of  the  olde  lease  at  an  ende,  that  George  Crymbill  my  sonne  to  entre  in  to  Rogewarde 

and  occupye  the  one  halfe  jointly  wk  Thomas  Crymbill,  thone  to  be  others  heyre.  And  yf  they 
both  departe  w*out  heyres,  then  I  geue  my  newe  leas  of  Rogewode  to  my  sonnes  Rycharde  and 
William.  Item  I  will  that  myne  executours  haue  the  occupying^  of  my  ffarme  cauled  ffowlnes  hall 
and  all  the  proffetts  of  the  tythes  whiche  I  haue  by  lease  of  the  Kinge  1  will  that  myne 
executours  doo  pay  to  my  doughters  at  the  day  of  theyre  nmryage  or  at  xxitl  yeres  of  age  xx'h 

R 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


1  09 

J.  Li  Lt 

When  Ryeharde  Crymbill  my  sonne  comyth  to  thage  of  xxiu  yers  my  executors  shall  de'yver  the 
lease  of  Sowthwike  and  the  Indenture  and  lease  that  I  liadd  of  the  Kinge  to  Ryeharde,  William 
and  George  Crymbill  my  sonnes,  and  yf  all  my  sons  departe  wVmt  heyres  I  will  that  my  doughters 
receve  ffarmes  leases  and  proffitts,  and  yf  all  my  sonnes  and  doughters  departe  w*out  heyres  then 
I  geue  the  said  leases  to  John  Crymbill  the  sonne  of  Henry,  William  Crymbill  the  sonne  of  John, 
and  Thomas  the  sonne  of  William  Crymbill,  and  then  I  will  they  geve  to  my  brother  Hery  Crymbill 
tenne  pounde  and  if  he  be  depated  I  will  they  geue  vj"  xiijs  iiijd  among  my  brouther  Henry 
childerne.  Item  I  will  to  my  doughtcr  Agnes  Stain] ,  William  Stamer’s  wyfe,  v  mrcs,  to  my  suster 
ffarnes  childerne  iij1*  and  to  my  suster  Tayler  childerne  iij1'  and.  to  my  suster  Cowper  childerne 
fourty  shillinges  and  to  my  suster  Chelsams  childerne  xxs.  Item  I  geue  the  lease  of  the  parsonage 
of  Hawkewell  to  my  brother  in  lawe  William  Tavlor.  To  my  suster  ferneres  xiijs  iii jd  euery  yere 
duringe  xij  yeres  yf  she  so  longe  haue  neade.  Item  to  my  brother  Henry  Crembill  my  gowne 
furred  w*  cony.  Item  I  geue  to  Anne  Crymbill  a  cowe  bullock  of  ij  yeres  olde  and  bullockes  to 
Jane  farners,  Ryeharde  Tayler  my  godsonne,  to  my  daughters  sonne  John  frebarn  and  to  Edward 
Stainer.  I  will  that  yf  annv  of  my  sonnes  do  putt  oute  Thomas  Crymbill  oute  of  certeyne  londes  in 
Pryttwell  I  will  that  he  that  so  dothe  shall  lack  xv1'.  Also  I  will  to  Thomas  Crymbill  my  nevewe 
all  rents  I  haue  receyued  of  the  londes  of  Prittwell  sence  my  brouther  William  Crymble  dyed,  the 
repacons  allowed.  Item  I  will  that  myne  executors  kepe  all  my  childerne  at  scoole  and  then  to 
bynde  theyme  prentys  there  as  they  may  be  vertuously  brought  vpp  in  truthe.  Silver  spones  or 
gobletts  to  George  my  sonne,  Johan,  Margery,  Margaret  and  Elizabeth  my  doughters.  To  Agnes  my 
wyfe  a  barne  called  Beldam  barn  and  londe  therto  belonginge  painge  yerely  to  John  Crymbill  viij8. 
Also  1  geue  her  the  Downes  and  a  parcell  of  lande  cawled  Halyscrofte.  Alpo  I  will  that  John 
Crymbill  haue  my  lease  of  Swaynes  and  Moreses.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  and  cattail  I  geue  to 
my  executours  wliome  I  ordeyne  Henry  Bode  of  Raighleigh,  John  Stone  of  Pakilshrh.  And  I  will 
that  they  shall  yerely  accompte  before  my  ffather  William  Rutter  and  my  brouther  Henry  Crimbill 
my  Oversears. 

Decimo  quinto  Octobris  1541  Johannes  Stane  et  Henricus  Bode  onus  execuconis  renuciarnt  et 
cohiissa  fuit  administraco  Wilimo  Harres  et  Agneti  eius  vxor  imp  reice  dicti  defunct!. 

P.C.C.  35  Alenger. 


Mill  of  Crgrnbk,  1570. 

The  seconde  daie  of  Aprill  1570,  George  Crymble  of  Moclie  Stanbridge  in  the  Countie  of 
Essex.  I  giue  vnto  euerie  parrishe  within  Rocheford  hundred  such  somes  of  money  as  are  hereafter 
expressed  to  be  distributed  amongst  the  poore  .  .  .  Item,  I  giue  to  my  brother  Richard  Crimble 
x1*  .  .  .  to  Grace  Crymble  my  brother  Richard  Crymbles  daughter  vh  at  the  age  of  xviij  yeres  or 
at  the  daie  of  hir  mariage  ...  to  Richard  Crymble  my  brothers  soue  vu  ...  to  my  syster 
Margaret  Betts  xl3  ...  to  euerie  one  off  my  syster  Stamers  children  xi.s  ...  to  my  brother 
Stamer  the  iii  j 11  that  he  oweth  me  ...  to  eurie  one  of  my  aunt  Taylors  children  xx3  a  pece  .  .  . 
to  Benjamin  Shene  xxs  ...  to  Grace  Robson  xxs  at  the  age  of  xv  yeres  ...  to  euery e  of  my 

vncle  llemy  Crymbles  children  .  .  .  toward  the  repayringe  of  Hulbrege  xls  ...  to  euerie  one  of 

midell  John  Crypes  children  xijd  ...  to  Thom3  Hoscar  xx3  .  .  .  to  Margaret  Rob  John  xx’  .  .  . 

to  Clcmence  Hills  xls.  Itm  I  giue  and  bequeath  to  Thomasin  my  wief  lxxx'*  to  be  paied  to 


FORTH,  CRYMBLE,  BODE.  123 

her  ymediatlie  after  my  decease,  and  all  hir  apparell  and  hir  dwellinge  and  ocoupieing  of  my 
house  and  lande  in  Moche  Stanbrege  called  ffynches  wttt  the  stccke  of  cattell  vpon  the  grounds 
there  duringe  hir  lief,  and  the  one  halffe  off  all  my  household  stuffe  at  the  appointment  off  my 
overseers,  upon  condicon  that  she  shall  not  clayme  anye  thirde  pte  in  anye  other  of  my  lands. 
Item,  to  Mr  Brice  of  Bursted  iiij11  of  current  money  vpon  condicon  that  he  will  make  xij  sermons 
at  xij  sondrie  places  wthin  the  hundreth  of  Rocheforde,  whereof  one  sermon  shalbe  made  at  my 
buriall.  Item  to  George  Crymble  my  sonne  twoe  hundreth  seventeen  pounds  ffive  shillings  sixepence. 
Item  to  Grace  Crimble  my  daughter,  Suzan  Crimble  my  daughter,  Marie  Crimble  my  daughter 
(each)  twoe  hundreth  seventeen  pounds  ffive  shillings  sixpence.  My  brother  Richard  Crymble  shallbe 
my  overseer  and  haue  the  bringing  vp  of  my  ffouer  children  ;  that  is  to  saie,  George  my  sone, 
Grace,  Suzau  and  Marye  my  three  daughters.  When  George  my  sonne  dothe  come  to  the  age 
of  xx“  yeres  I  will  he  shall  recieve  all  suche  goods  and  lands  as  are  and  shalbe  due  to  him, 
and  my  three  daughters  when  they  severally  come  to  their  age  of  xviij  yeres.  If  all  my 
children  die  before  they  come  to  their  ages  before  expressed  their  ptes  shall  remaine  to  my  brother 
Richard  Crimble  and  his  children,  to  my  brother  Slamers  children  borne  of  my  sister,  and  to 
myne  vnele  Henry  Crymbles  sonnes,  and  to  my  cozen  George  Crymbles  sonnes  equallie.  All  my 
land  both  ffree  and  coppie  I  give  and  bequeath  to  George  Crimble  my  sonne,  and  to  the  heires 
males  of  his  bodie  lawfullie  begotten  :  ffor  lack  of  such  heires  males  my  lands  to  remaine  to  my 
daughters  for  the  terme  of  their  lives,  and  after  to  Richard  Crimble  my  brother,  and  heirs  males 
of  his  body ;  for  lacke  of  these,  to  my  cosen  Willm  Crimble  and  the  heires  males  of  his  body 
lawfullie  begotten,  and  for  lacke  of  these  to  the  right  heirs  of  the  Crimbles,  being  males,  for  ever. 
The  Residue  of  my  goods  to  my  children  equallie  whom  I  make  my  executours.  And  Willm 
Stamm ,  John  Crimble  and  Richard  Pease,  and  the  said  Richard  Crimble  to  be  my  ouerseers.  Probat 
x\rtl  die  mens  Novembris  1572  Jurameto  Gracie  Crimble  vnius  executore. 

Siiia  ex  parte  Riclii  Crymble’  probaconis  testi  Georgii  Crimble  nup  poctiie  de  Magna  Stambridge, 
inter  Thomazinam  Crymble  ats  Bode  relearn  testamentm  Jur  testes  probari  peteh  ex  una,  et 
Richardum  Crymble  Admi9stratorem  bonoru9  prefat  Georgii  Crimble  duran  minori  etate  Georgii 
Crimble,  Gracie  Crimble,  Suzanne  Crimble  et  Marie  Crimble  liberorp  dci  def’  et  executoru9  noiatorp 
in  testamento.  P.C.C.  40  Daper  &  10  Lyon. 


MtU  of  ®bomas  IBoite,  1581. 

The  eighteenth  day  of  June,  23  Elizth.  I  Thomas  Bode  of  Rocheforde  in  the  Countie  of 
Essex  yeoman  visited  wth  sicknes  in  my  bodie  by  the  handieworke  of  God.  To  be  buried  in  parish 
churche  of  Rocheford.  My  sister  Hilles  of  Hackewell.  To  Alice  Meller  of  Pagelsham  my  sister  my 
howse  and  lands  called  Pakes  in  Pagelsham  which  John  Meller  hir  husband  now  holdeth  and  a  copie 
tenement  in  Eastwood  to  the  said  Alice  and  hir  heires  for  evermore.  To  Thomazine  my  wief  my 
tenement  and  lands  in  Muche  Stambridgre  called  Moones  to  hir  and  hir  heires  for  evermore.  To  the 
said  Thomazine  my  tenements  and  lands  called  Birds  in  Boreham  for  life,  then  the  one  half  to 
George  Crimble  my  wieves  sonne  and  to  his  heires  for  euer,  and  the  other  half  to  Edward  Bode  and 
William  Bode  my  brothers  and  their  heires  for  euer  more.  To  my  said  wife  tenement  and  lands  in 
Terlinge  in  lieu  of  hir  generall  thirde  of  my  other  lands  for  life,  and  after  hir  decease  to  my 
brothers.  To  Thomas  Stephen  sonne  of  Robert  Stephen  my  brother  late  of  Brentwood.  To  other 
children  of  the  said  Robex-t.  To  the  children  of  my  cossin  Robert  Stephane  late  of  Leighe.  To 
my  brother  Stephen  of  Maldon.  To  my  brother  Thomas  Collins  and  to  Marie  his  wief  my  sister 


124 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


and  to  their  sonne.  To  my  said  wife  land  in  Althorne  for  life  then  to  Alice  Meller  my  said 
sister.  Howse  in  Rocheforde  whiche  I  lately  purchased  of  John  Crymble  to  William  Corneford 
of  Rocheford  for  life  then  to  Marie  Corneford  his  daughter  begotten  of  the  bodie  of  Clement  Comford 
deceased  &  failing  issue  of  her  bodie  to  William  Hilles  son  of  William  Hilles.  Lands  late  my 
father’s,  John  Bode,  according  to  his  will.  Judith  Bode  my  sister.  Cossens  Edward  and  Thomas 
Jenyns.  My  two  brothers  wives  and  my  brother  William  Bodes  children.  To  William  Richardson 
my  orcharde  in  Prittlewell.  Wife  to  be  Executrix  and  brothers  Overseers.  Probate  23  Aug.  1581 
to  relict.  Snia  ad  instantiam  Alicioo  Samon  ats  Miller  sororis.  Second  Probate  19  Dec.  1581. 

Arch.  Essex.  Brewer,  fo.  19. 

Thomas  Bode  de  Rockford,  fil:  et  hares  Johis  Bode  ex  conjuge  prima,  duxit  Thomasinam 
filiam  cui  cledit  terras  in  Stanhridge  Magna  diet  Stewards,  in  Black  Notley , 

Boram,  Rochford,  et  in  Alderne  infra  hundred  de  Denge,  post  mortem  cujus,  ilia  deponsauit 
Johannem  fforde  de  Buckley  Abbye  in  com  Stiffs,  qui  habuit  exit  Mariam,  filiam  suam  et 
hceredem,  vxor  Johannis  Wenthcrpe. 

From  the  pedigree  of  Bode  of  Feversham,  co.  Kent,  1619,  Harl.  MS,  1432. 


Mill  of  (BMoarf*  Jfortlj,  1591. 

Edward  fforthe  of  Iveldon  in  the  Countie  of  Essex,  gent.,  24  ffeb.  33  Eliz.  To  Suzan 
fforthe,  my  deere  and  velbeloued  wyfe,  all  my  lands  and  tenements  duringe  her  naturall  lyfe,  for 
the  better  bringing  vpp  of  my  children.  Vnto  John  fforthe,  my  second  sonne,  messuages  in  East 
Donylande  in  Essex,  and  messuages  and  tenements  in  Chelmesfforde,  at  his  full  age  of  one  and 
twenty  yeares.  Vnto  William  fforthe,  my  sonne,  lands  in  revereon  in  Stamb ridge  Magna  nowe  in 
the  occupation  of  William  Boode  gent,  at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares,  and  lands  in  Wickforde, 
Rawethe,  Pritwell  and  Paklesham  after  decease  of  Suzan  my  saide  wyfe.  I  further  give  to  my  said 
sonne  John  ffoithe  my  landes  in  Boram  after  the  deathe  of  his  mother.  To  the  childe  wherewith 
my  wyfe  is  nowe  grosment  incent,  if  it  be  a  man  child,  my  lands  in  Stambridge  Magna  nowe  in 
the  occupation  of  John  Mylls  ;  if  a  daughter,  one  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  Thomazine  and  ffraunces 
my  daughters,  one  hundred  pounds  a  peice  at  their  severall  mariages  or  severall  ages  of  one  and 
twenty  yeares.  I  give  my  severall  leases  of  Keldon  Hall  to  my  sonne  Edward  ;  but  if  he  die  before 
bis  full  age  of  twenty  one  I  give  them  vnto  John  my  sonne  ;  and  if  John  dye  before  his  full  age 
I  give  them  to  Willm  my  sonne.  I  appoint  my  wife  and  my  said  sonne  Edward  fforthe  my 
executors,  and  my  brothers  Robert  fforthe  of  Butly  Esquier  and  John  fforthe  gent,  Owyn  Tesborghe 
Esquyer  and  Henry  Wlietcrofte  Doctor  of  the  Lawe,  Supervisors.  Probat  29  April  1591,  jur. 
procuris  Suzanne  relce,  &c.  P.C.C.  26  Sainberbe. 


Will  nf  (EMuarti  Jfortl),  1612. 

Mr  Edward  fforth  of  New  Windsor,  co.  Berks,  gentleman,  sicke  in  body,  9  July  1612.  I 
give,  saith  he,  vnto  my  daughter  Sibilla  fforthe  one  hundred  poundes  when  she  cometh  of  age  or 
vpon  her  marriage  daye.  My  sonne  James  fforthe  is  to  be  myne  heire  ;  and  when  my  mother  dieth, 
he  shall  inheritt  more  land.  I  give  to  my  W'ife  one  hundred  and  fiftie  poundes,  who  also  hath  a 
Joynture,  and  whom  I  make  my  sole  executrix.  In  witnes  hereof  wTe  haue  sett  herevnto  our  handes 
and  seales  this  xiiijth  of  Julie,  Anno  1612.  John  Martin,  Vicarius  de  Nova  Windsor.  The  marke 
of  Anne  Martin.  Probatum  27  Julij  1612,  Juramento  Barbare  relicte  et  executric. 

P.C.C.  64  Fenner. 


FORTH.  BODE,  CRYMBEE. 


125 


of  loljtt  Wintbrop,  imtr,  1627. 

Knowe  all  men  by  these  pntes  that  I  John  Winthrop  sonne  &  heire  apparent  of  John 
Winthrop  &  Mary  his  wife  deceased,  daughter  &  heire  of  John  fforthe  gen  &  Thomasin  his 
wife  deceased,  have  remised,  released,  &  for  me  &  my  heires  by  these  phts  doe  remise,  release, 
it  quite  claime  vnto  my  lovinge  Aunt  Susan  Golding  wi3  &  her  heires  all  right,  title,  Claime, 
interest  «fc  demande  wch  I  or  my  heires  have  or  may  have  of,  in,  or  vnto  all  or  any  the 

lands  and  tenemts  of  the  sd  Susan  in  Boreham  or  els  where  in  the  sd  County  of  Essex  wch 

were  sometymes  the  said  Thomasin  fforthes  &  conveyed  or  intended  to  be  conveyed  to  the  sd 
Susan  or  her  heires  or  the  heires  of  Edward  fforthe  gen  her  husband  deceased.  And  all  Actions 
suits  &  demands  whatsoeu)  woh  I  the  sd  John  Winthrop  or  my  heires  have  or  may  have  of 
or  against  the  sd  Susan  or  her  heires  for  any  matter  or  cause  whatsoeu)  from  the  begininge 

of  the  world  vnto  the  daye  of  the  date  of  these  presents.  In  wittness  whereof  I  the  sd  John 
Winthrop  have  hervnto  putt  my  hand  &  seale  this  sixteenthe  daye  of  ffebruary  An0  Rf  dili  nri 
Carol  tertio. 

This  parchment,  now  in  the  possession  of  Robert  C.  Winthrop,  Jun.,  Esq,,  of  Boston,  U.S. , 
was  never  signed  or  witnessed.  It  is  endorsed,  “  Sealed  &  DeliuW  in  the  presence  of  .  .  .” 


Will  of  Stosan  ©oltiinj,  1651. 

Susan  Goulding  of  the  Cittye  of  London,  widdowe,  15  July  1631.  I  will  that  my  executor, 

Cornelius  Holland,  shall  pay  my  daur  ffrancis  Vernon,  widdowe,  during  her  life  natural!,  one 

yearely  some  of  eight  pounds,  after  one  hundred  pounds  or  more  of  the  money  oweing  to  me 
by  Thomas  Goulding  gent,  and  ffrances  Goulding  shall  be  paid.  After  decease  of  said  daughter  I 
give  said  hundred  pounds  vnto  Suzan  Holland,  daughter  of  said  Cornelius.  To  my  grandchild, 
James  fforth,  one  hundred  pounds  out  of  the  next  moneys  wch  shalbe  receiued  of  said  Thomas 
and  ffrancis  Goulding,  which  hundred  pounds  shalbe  layd  out  in  repayreing  of  his  howses  in 
the  counties  of  Essex  and  Sussex.  To  my  said  daughter  ffrances  Vernon  rny  silver  beaker  and 
both  my  beaver  hatts.  To  Richard  Vernon,  the  eldest  sonne  of  said  ffrances  Vernon,  my  daughter, 
one  hundred  pounds  on  the  ffeast  day  of  the  Nativity  of  Sfc  John  Baptist  1635  ;  which  hundred 

pounds  I  have  alreadye  putt  into  the  handes  of  Thomas  Smith,  Cittezen  &  Pewterer  of  London. 

If  said  Richard  Vernon  decease  before  this,  I  give  said  hundred  poundes  vnto  John  Vernon  his 
brother  on  the  Nativity  of  S*  John  Baptist  1636  ;  if  both  decease  and  ffrances  Vernon  my  daughter 
also,  I  give  the  same  hundred  poundes  vnto  all  the  children  of  my  grandchilden,  Katherine 
Lowefield  and  Susan  Clarke.  Vnto  the  said  Richard  Vernon  my  best  Bible,  my  wedding  ring, 
and  six  joyned  stooles  covered  with  Turkey  worke.  To  John  Vernon,  sonne  of  said  ffrances, 
fiftie  poundes.  Vnto  the  said  James  fforth  my  silver  and  guilte  bason  and  ewer,  my  white  silver 
bason,  &c.,  &c.,  at  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares  or  when  he  be  marryed.  Vnto  my  grandchild 
Sibill  Holland,  wife  of  the  said  Cornelius  Holland,  one  hundred  pounds,  to  be  paid  out  of  ye 
moneys  wcb  Mr  John  Boade  of  ffeversham  is  to  pay  my  executors.  To  Robert  Lowefield,  sonne  of 
my  grandchild  Katherine  Lowefield,  twenty  pounds  att  his  age  of  twenty  one.  To  Susan  Clarke, 


126 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


daughter  of  my  grandchilde  Susan  Clarke,  twenty  pounds,  at  her  age  of  sixteen  yeares  or  day  of 
marriage.  To  Henry  Smith,  sonne  of  Robert  Smith,  grocer,  twenty  pounds.  To  my  cosen  John 
Bead,  to  make  him  a  ring  v11.  Vnto  my  sonne  Smith  the  grocer  my  watch.  The  rest  of  my 
goodes,  chattells  and  creditts,  vnto  the  said  Cornelius  Holland  and  James  fforth  equallie  :  they  to 
be  my  executors.  My  kinsman  Robert  Lowfeild  the  elder,  gentleman,  and  the  said  Thomas  Smith 
(the  Pewterer)  to  be  overseers.  Whereas  certain  ffreehould  lands,  called  Wheelers,  lying  at  D unland 
in  Essex,  were  conveyed  vnto  John  Boad,  gent.,  in  trust  for  me,  I  bequeath  said  lands  after  my 
decease  to  ffrances  Vernon  my  daughter  for  the  terme  of  her  life,  and  after  her  decease,  to  the 
said  Richard  Vernon  and  John  Vernon  her  sonnes  and  the  heires  of  their  bodies  :  for  default  of 
such  issue,  to  the  heirs  of  the  said  Katherine  Lowefcild  and  Susan  Clarke,  my  grandchildren.  Item 
I  give  all  my  messuages,  lands,  tenements,  &c\,  in  the  Countyes  of  Suffolk  or  Essex  (except 
Wheelers)  vnto  James  fforth  my  grandchild  and  to  the  heires  of  his  bodye  :  in  default,  vnto  Sibell 
Holland  my  grandchild,  his  sister,  and  the  heires  of  her  body  lawfully  begotten  for  ever.  Decimo 
octavo  die  mensis  Aprilis  1634,  comiss  probatu  Cornelia  Holland  et  Jacobu  fforth,  exres. 

Dean  and  Chapter  of  Westminster,  “Camden,”  fo.  236. 


Cljanarn  iPrnccctthtgs,  Jfnrtlj  c-  18o 1634. 

James  fforth  of  New  Windsor  in  the  countie  of  Berkshire,  gentleman,  complaynant.  One  John 
fforth  late  Citizen  and  Clothworker  of  London  your  Orators  vncle,  your  Orator  being  his  next  heire, 
about  twelve  yeares  last  past  was  seized  of  the  moytie  of  a  ffarme  howse  and  fforty  five  acres  of 

land  called  Birds  in  Boreham  in  the  countie  of  Essex  and  of  two  messuages  in  Chelmesford  and  of 

a  messuage  and  fifty  acres  of  land  called  Wheelors  in  Dunnyland  in  the  said  Countie  of  Essex.  By 
the  persuation  of  John  Bode  of  Babbington  Priory  in  the  countie  of  Kent,  then  gentleman  now 
Esquier,  the  said  John  fforth,  without  any  peny  or  other  consideration  giuen,  by  deed  indented  sold 
said  premisses  to  the  said  John  Bode  and  his  heires  for  ever  upon  trust  that  the  said  Bode  permit 
Susan  Golding,  now  deceased,  grandmother  to  your  Orator,  whose  heire  also  yor  Orator  is,  to  enjoy 
said  premisses  during  her  life  ;  but  if  the  said  John  fforth  should  tender  sixpence  to  the  said  John 
Bode  in  the  presence  of  witnesses  at  the  Royal  Exchange  in  London  this  conveyance  should  be 
void.  John  fforth  had  nothing  in  the  world,  as  this  assurance  had  stripped  him  of  all  his  meanes. 
Having  tendered  the  sixpence  some  yeares  after,  but  not  according  to  the  precise  words,  he  dyed. 
Bode  now  claymeth  tytle  to  said  lands. 

Answer  of  John  Bode.  John  fforth  had  no  issue.  He  sold  said  laud  out  of  respect  to  Susan 

Goulding  his  naturall  mother.  She  had  given  him  great  sornes  of  money  and  he  desired  to 

recompenee  her,  but  his  merchandice  beyond  the  seas  had  twice  miscarried,  both  times  by  pirates. 
Having  little  or  nothing  but  what  his  said  mother  allowed  him,  hee  the  said  John  fforth  did  sell 
said  lands  vnto  this  defendant,  but  Defendant  never  knew  or  heard  of  the  Indenture  until  after 
John  fforth’s  death,  when  Susan  Gouldinge,  being  this  Defendants  aunte,  did  soiourne  with  Defendant 
in  the  summer  time  and  did  acquaint  Defendant  with  the  Indenture.  Said  Indenture  was  taken  in 
Defendant’s  name  in  trust  for  the  said  Susan.  Defendant  hath  beene  at  great  charge  anil  trouble 
uppon  severall  occasions  on  her  behalfe.  She  was  then  wife  of  Thomas  Gouldinge  the  elder  of 
Poslingford  in  Suffolk  Esquier,  and  the  Bargaine  was  not  taken  in  her  owne  name,  Gouldinge  being 
so  ill  an  husband  that  he  and  the  said  Susan  then  lined  asunder.  Because  Defendant  was  sickly  and 


FORTH,  CRYMBLE,  BODE. 


127 


might  die  the  said  Susan  desired  that  said  lands  might  be  conveyed  to  other  trustees.  So  another 

Indenture  was  made  3d  Novr  1623  betweue  this  Defendant  on  the  first  parte,  said  Susan  Gouldinge 

and  one  Kichard  Vernon  the  elder,  citizen  and  mercer  of  London  on  the  seconde  parte,  and  Sir 
Edward  Boys  the  yonger  of  Norrington  co.  Kent  Knight,  John  Wynthrope  of  Groton  Esquier,  George 
Brooke  of  East  Dunnylande  co.  Kent  Esquier,  and  Thomas  Aylett  of  Revenhall  co.  Essex  gentleman 
on  the  third  parte.  In  this  Indenture  Susan  granted  Wheelers  to  the  said  Sir  Edward  Boys,  John 
Wynthrope,  Ac.  for  the  terme  of  one  thousand  years,  they  payeing  vnto  this  Defendant  yearely  one 
pepper  corne  and  suffering  the  said  Susan  peaceably  to  hould  Wheelers,  and  immediately  from  the 
death  of  this  Defendant  the  said  Susan  to  permit  the  said  Richard  Vernon  and  ffrances  his 

wife  (daughter  of  the  said  Susan  Gouldinge  and  of  Edward  fforthe  Esquier  former  husband  of  said 

Susan)  to  have  Wheelers  with  reversion  to  Edward  Vernon,  Richard  Vernon  the  younger  and  John 
Vernon,  sonnes  of  the  said  Richard  and  ffrances  his  wife,  and  they  having  no  issue,  with  remainder 
to  Henry  Smith,  Susan  Smith  and  Katherine  Smith,  children  of  Robert  Smith  citizen  and  grocer  of 
London  and  Thomasine  his  wife,  another  daughter  of  the  said  Susan  Goulding.  The  said  Susan 
further  assured  the  moytie  of  the  messuage  and  forty  five  acres  called  Birds  to  this  Defendant,  he 
to  paye  one  hundred  pounds  to  Sybell  fforthe  her  grandchilde  yf  Charles  fforthe  her  brother  be  dead 
without  issue.  After  the  miking  of  said  Indenture  Sybbil  fforthe  did  marry  Cornelius  Holland  of 
the  citty  of  Westminster  Esquier,  and  before  1631  when  the  said  Susan  Gouldinge  made  her  last 
will,  Thomas  Gouldinge  her  husband  bcinge  then  dead.  Susan  Goulding  died  on  the  30th  of 
Marche  in  the  tenth  yeare  of  the  raigne  of  his  Matie  that  nowe  is.  Defendant  takes  it  to  be  true 

that  Complaynant  is  next  lieire  vnto  the  said  John  fforthe  and  Susan  Gouldinge.  Defendant  hath 

in  his  hands  and  custodie  the  said  parte  of  said  tripartite  Indenture  and  said  Deed  poll  made  by 
this  Defendant  and  a  coppie  of  the  will  of  Thomas  Bode  and  a  coppie  of  the  Indenture  of  Bargain 
and  Sale  and  a  coppy  of  the  will  of  Edward  fforthe  gentleman  grandfather  of  Complaynant  and 
husband  of  said  Susan  ;  and  Defendant  takes  it  that  said  Edward  fforthe  hath  devised  said  lands 
vnto  said  Susan  for  her  life  and  after  her  deceass  to  said  John  fforthe  and  his  heires  for  ever. 

He  denietli  that  said  John  fforthe  did  at  any  time  tender  the  some  of  sixe  pence  for  the  avoydinge 

of  said  Indenture.  Charles  I.,  B.  A  A.,  FF.  18-49. 


prnmfrings,  % Soto  t.  Jforti),  1635. 

John  Bode  of  Davington  Pi-iory  in  the  county  of  Kent  gentleman,  complaynant.  George 
Crimble  of  Stambridge  in  the  county  of  Essex,  gentleman,  your  Orators  late  grandfather,  was  seased 
of  divers  messuages  lands  and  tenements  in  Stambridge  and  elsewhere  in  Essex  of  the  clear  value 
of  three  hundred  pounds  yearly.  He  made  his  will  on  the  second  daye  of  Aprill  1570,  devising 
these  lands  to  George  Crimble  his  sonne  and  for  want  of  issue  of  said  sonne  to  Grace  Susan  and 
Mary  Crimble  his  daughters  for  their  lives,  and  then  to  Richard  Crimble  said  grandfathers 
brother  and  the  heirs  males  of  his  body  lawfully  begotten  ;  for  lack  of  such  he  left  them  to 
William  Crimble  his  cozen  and  the  heirs  males  of  his  body  ;  failing  these  to  the  heirs  of  the 
Crimbles  being  males  for  ever  ;  and  in  default  of  heirs  males  to  the  right  heires  of  the  said 
George  Crimble  the  testator.  Grace  Crimble  was  his  daughter  by  his  first  wife,  whoe  brought 


128 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


a  great  porcon  vnto  the  said  George  Crimble  the  grandfather,  and  George,  Susan  and  Mary  Crimble 
were  children  by  his  second  wife.  The  said  Mary  died  shortlie  after  without  issue,  and  Grace 
married  William  Bode  of  Rotchford  gentleman  and  by  him  had  your  Orator.  Shortlie  after 
said  grandfathers  death  the  said  George  Crimble  his  sonne  entered  into  his  lands  and  long  since 
died  without  issue.  By  virtue  of  said  grandfathers  will  his  lands  came  unto  the  said  Susan  as 
the  sole  survivor  of  his  daughters,  as  Mary  and  Grace  died  in  the  lifetime  of  George  the  sonne. 
So  Suzan  entered  into  the  said  lands.  She  lived  until  March  1634  ;  before  whose  death  the 
said  Richard  Crymble  and  William  Crymble  died  without  issue  :  and  all  the  heires  males  of  the 
Crymbles  were  dead  without  issue  before  the  death  of  said  Susan.  By  reason  whereof  one  moyitie 

did  come  vnto  your  Orator  as  son  and  heir  of  said  Grace  Crimble,  and  the  other  moyitie  to  the 

right  heirs  of  said  Susan — Grace  and  Susan  being  the  only  surviving  children  of  said  George 
Crimble  the  testator,  and  your  Orator  heire  generall  of  said  George  Crimble.  But  soe  it  is  that 
one  James  ffoorth  of  Windsor  in  the  Countie  of  Berkshire  first  prtending  himself  to  be  grandchild 
and  heire  of  said  Susan  and  having  gotten  into  his  hands  the  original  will  &  writings  deeds  & 
evidences — on  death  of  said  Susan  did  enter  in  vpon  the  lands,  &c.,  and  take  rents  as  sole  heire  of 
George  Crymble  the  testator.  Now  Grace  yor  Orators  mother  was  sole  heire  of  Crymble  by  his 

1st  wife,  who  brought  a  great  porcon  in  marriage,  and  said  Susan  was  daul  of  Crymble  by  his 

second  wife.  Your  Orator  ought  to  have  at  least  as  great  a  share  as  the  said  James  fforth. 
fforthe  also  pretends  William  Crimble  did  suffer  a  Recovery  :  he  hath  cutt  timber,  Ac.,  &c. 

Answer  of  James  ffoorth  Esquire  1635.  George  Crimble  the  testator  was  seised  of  messuages 
Ac.  in  Much  Stambridge,  Prittlewell,  Inworth,  Rocheford,  Rawrith,  Wickford,  and  Chelmysford.  Com¬ 
plainant  deriveth  only  by  heires  ffenmle,  knowing  well  that  there  be  left  heires  males  of  the 

Crymbles,  this  alone  overthrowing  his  prtended  title.  After  making  his  will,  said  George  Crymble 
the  elder,  George  his  sonne,  Richard  Crymble  &  the  said  Grace  and  Mary  Crymble  all  dyed.  Only 
Susan  (defendant’s  mother)  and  William  Crymble  were  left,  Susan  being  survivor  of  the  daughters 
to  whom  the  lands  were  left  for  life,  and  William  Crymble  the  next  in  tayle.  Tliomasine,  the  last 
wife  of  said  George  Crymble  the  testator  having  for  her  dower  the  lands  called  ffynches  in  Much 
Stambridge,  and  Susan  aforesaid  holding  the  residue  for  life  only,  the  remainder  being  William 
Crymble.  William  Crymble  having  the  freehold  vested  in  him  by  John  fforth  who  had  married  the 
said  Thomasyn,  and  by  Edward  fforth  who  had  married  the  said  Susan,  in  Easter  Term  26  Elizabeth 
the  said  Edward  fforth  did  Recover  the  premisses  against  him  the  said  William  Crymble  by  Comon 
Recovery,  by  the  name  of  ten  messuages,  eight  gardens,  eighty  acres  of  land,  ten  acres  of  meadow, 
sixty  acres  of  pasture,  four  acres  of  wood  and  twenty  acres  of  ffresh  marsh — as  appeareth  in  the 
Records  of  said  Court.  By  Indenture  tripartite  6  May  26  Elizth  said  Wm  Crymble  of  the  1st  part, 
Edward  fforth  A  Susan  his  wife  of  the  2d  and  John  fforth  &  Tliomasine  his  wife  of  the  3'1  part,  the 
uses  of  the  Recovery  are  all  declared,  flinches  to  be  to  Tliomasine  for  life  with  reversion  to  Edward 

fforth  and  Susan  his  wife  and  the  longer  liver  of  the  two,  and  afterwards  to  the  use  of  - 

[document  gone  in  this  place].  Edward  fforth  so  seised  made  his  will ;  he  left  premises  in 
Chclniesford  to  John  fforth  his  youngest  son  A  premises  unbequeathed  to  Edvard  ffoorth  his  son  A 
heir,  who  was  father  to  this  defendant,  and  dyed  leaving  this  defendant  lands  as  his  son  and  heir. 
Susan  (Defendants  grandmother)  also  dyed  about  two  years  last  past  and  before  her  death  made  a 
will.  Defendant,  who  is  .but  lately  come  to  the  age  of  twenty  one,  knoweth  not  the  contents  but 
will  informe  himself  thereof.  Chancery  Proceedings,  Charles  I,  B.  &  A.,  BB.  1C2-26. 


FORTH,  CRYMBLE,  BODE. 


129 


(Kljanttro  fJrnm&htgs,  t.  JfortI),  1635. 

Humbly  complayninge,  15th  April  1635,  John  Bode  of  Davington  Priory  in  the  Countie  of 
Kent,  gentleman.  John  ffoorth,  late  Cittizen  and  C’.oathworker  of  London,  was  about  twelve  yeares 
now  last  paste  seised  of  the  revercion  uppon  the  death  of  Susan  Gouldinge  his  mother  (and  your 
Orators  late  aunte)  of  the  moyity  of  a  ffarme  bowse  called  Byrds  and  forty  five  acres  of  land 
thereto  belonginge  in  Boreham  in  the  countie  of  Essex.  And  the  said  John  ffoorth,  having  noe  issue 
of  his  bodie,  out  of  the  loue  wch  liee  bare  vnto  his  said  mother  and  to  satisfie  her  for  diuerse  great 
somes  of  money  lent  him,  by  deed  inrolled  did  sell  with  other  lands  and  tenements  the  said  moyity 
of  lands  vnto  yor  Orator  and  his  heires  ;  yor  Orator  to  suffer  the  said  Susan,  being  naturall  mother 
of  the  said  John  ffoorth,  peaceably  to  take  the  rents  duringe  her  life.  John  ffoorth  died  ;  and 
shortly  after,  havinge  a  desire  to  gratifye  yor  Orator  for  divers  curtesies,  the  said  Susan  Gouldinge 
by  Indenture  tripartite,  dated  the  the  third  daie  of  November  1623,  between  the  said  Susan  and 
your  Orator,  on  the  first  parte,  and  one  Richard  Vernon  the  elder  Cittizen  and  Mercer  of  London 
on  the  second  parte,’  and  Sir  Edward  Boys  the  yonger  of  Nouington  in  the  countie  of  Kent  Knight, 
John  Wynthropp  of  Grotton  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke  Esquier,  George  Brooke  of  East  Dunnyland 
in  the  countie  of  Essex  Esquier  and  Thomas  Aylett  of  Reveuhall  in  the  countie  of  Essex  gentleman  on 
the  third  parte,  hath  appointed  that  your  Orator  should  convey  the  said  moyity  unto  the  said  Sir 
Edward  Boys,  etc.,  to  the  only  behoof  of  the  said  Susan,  and  after  her  decease  to  the  said  Sir 
Edward  Boys,  &c.,  their  heires  and  assignes  for  ever,  they  to  suffer  your  Orator  and  his  heirs  to 
enioye  said  lands.  Vppon  condition  that  yor  Orator  or  his  heires  should  pay  at  the  Royal  1  Exchange 
in  London  vnto  Sybill  fforth,  grandchilde  of  the  said  Susan,  the  some  of  one  hundred  pounds 
within  twoe  yeares  next  after  the  death  of  the  said  Susan.  Aboute  the  fifteenth  daie  of  July 

1631  the  said  Susan  Gouldinge  did  make  her  laste  will  and  did  giue  vnto  the  said  Sybill,  by 

the  name  of  Sybill  Holland  wife  of  Cornelius  Holland  of  the  citty  of  Westminster  Esquier,  the 
some  of  one  hundred  pounds  out  of  the  moneys  which  your  Orator  was  to  paye  vnto  the 
executors  of  the  said  Susan.  On  the  thirtieth  of  March  in  the  tenth  yeare  of  King  James  Susan 
Gouldinge  died.  But  now  soe  it  is  that  James  ffoorthe,  whoe  is  or  fftends  to  bee  next  heire  vnto 

the  said  Susan  and  allsoe  vnto  the  said  John  ffoorthe,  althought  he  hath  heard  the  said  Susan 

Goulding  his  grandmother  affirm e  that  John  ffoorth  her  sonne  did  conveye  those  lands  to  yor 
Orator,  and  knoweth,  being  her  executor,  that  she  hath  confirmed  them  by  said  tripartite  Indenture, 
and  hath  by  her  will  given  lands  called  Wheelers  to  her  own  daughter  and  grandchildren,  and  that 
he,  James  ffoorth,  hath  himself  in  a  letter  dated  the  third  daie  of  December  1634,  acknowledged  the 
said  moyity  of  Byrds  to  be  your  Orators,  and  that  Thomas  Gouldinge  the  said  Susan’s  husband  and 
the  said  Susan  herself  acknowledged  it  by  a  Fine  :  Knowing  also  that  your  Orator  went  to  councell 
for  the  said  Susan  at  his  own  costs  on  account  of  Thomas  Gouldinge  her  husband  his  ill  vsage  of 
her,  intending  to  pfer  a  Bill  against  said  Thomas  Gouldinge  into  this  IIonob,e  Courte  of  Chancery 
for  her  good  maintenance  :  Yet  the  said  James  ffoorth  out  of  his  covetuous  and  contensious  minde, 
to  get  away  Wheelers  from  his  grandmothers  grandchildren  and  the  moyitie  of  Byrds  from  your 
Orator,  hath  preferred  a  Bill  against  your  Orator  into  this  hont,le  Courte  full  of  false  things,  and 
saith  the  said  Indenture  is  obliterated.  Your  Orator  is  very  weake  and  sickly,  giuen  over  these 
twoo  yeares  by  Doctors  of  Physicke  and  stirreth  not  abroad.  He  prayeth  therefore  that  Your  good 
Lordshipp  would  grant  His  Maties  most  gracious  writt  of  subpoena,  etc.,  <tc.,  <tc. 

The  aunsweare  of  James  fforth  gent.  4th  May  1635.  He  much  wondreth  to  see  Complaynant, 
a  neere  kinsemen  of  this  defendant,  exhibit  soe  vnnecessary  a  Bill  against  this  defendant  taxing  him 

S 


130 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


that  hee  hath  sued  and  vexed  said  Compb  vpon  an  advantage  of  the  sickness  and  paine  and  old 
age  of  said  Complaynant.  Pick  and  painefull  and  old  and  bedred  as  hee  the  said  Comp1  is  or 
maketh  himselfe  to  bee,  hee  the  said  Comph  not  many  months  since  had  vigor  and  health  and  heate 
inoxigh  to  put  this  defend1  to  A  Trump  and  a  hazard  for  all  or  the  most  part  of  his  inheritance  : 

-  was  able  to  write  lettars  vpon  lettars  and  neuer  would  bee  att  peace  with  this  defendant 

being  very  young  and  rawe  in  all  worldly  affayres  and  lately  come  to  his  full  age  of  one  and 
twentie  yeares.  The  said  Susan  Goulding  in  the  tyme  of  her  last  sicknes  much  bewayled  an^ 
repented  the  wrongs  wch  she  had  offered  to  this  defendant  in  his  Birth  right.  Complaynant  need 
not  bee  so  peremptory  in  the  supporting  of  a  poore  and  weake  title  against  a  right  heire  who 
hath  beene  most  iniuriously  dealt  w*hall.  His  deceased  grandmother  kept  in  her  owne  hands 
dureing  all  her  life  both  the  said  {/tended  originall  deed  of  Bargaine  and  Sale  and  alsoe  the 
tripartite  Indenture.  Defendant  hopeth  that  thesse  things  may  be  solemnly  examined  and  deliberately 
heard  and  that  this  defendants’  iust  right  may  not  be  slighted. 

Charles  I,  B.  &  A.,  BB.  105,  13. 


Cljattaru  prom&htg*,  jfartlj  r.  SSUbb,  1640. 

James  Forth  of  Eaton  in  the  county  of  Buck.  Gent,  being  seised  of  one  ffarme  called  Belsyes 
and  of  lands  in  Barfold  &  Houlton  in  ye  county  of  Suff.  about  4  yeares  since  did  direct  one  Edw: 
Clarke  to  lett  ye  same.  Wherevpon  Clarke  did  treat  with  Agnes  Webb,  the  widowe  of  Rich:  Webb 
whoe  did  formerly  occupy  said  ffarme  vnder  yor  Or:  ancestors,  and  likewise  with  one  John  Webb  brother 
vnto  ye  said  Richard.  Yt  was  agreed  that  sd  Agnes  and  John  should  enioye  ye  ffarme  from  yeare  to 

yeare  only  and  should  pay  yearely  ye  some  of  49u.  But  now  soe  yt  ys  that  sd  Agnes  Webb  and  John 

Webb  takeing  notice  y*  yor  Or:  hath  noe  thing  in  writeing  vnder  theire  hands,  and  yor  Or: 

liaveing  mislayd  his  writeings  wch  cone]  ne  ye  sd  {/misses,  give  out  in  speeches  yk  they  nor  either  of 
them  doe  make  any  such  agreamt,  but  that  they  are  seised  of  ye  inhitance  of  ye  {/misses,  and 
doe  refuse  to  pay  ye  49"  p  annu  and  alsoe  doth  vtterly  spoyle  &  destroy  ye  sd  house  by  plucking 
vpp  ye  plancks  thereof,  and  some  of  them  have  felled  and  carryed  away  greate  pte  of  ye  tymber. 

Answeares  of  Agnes  Webb  widdowe,  John  Webb  &  Charles  Steine  Deft3.  They  thinke  it  to 
be  true  that  Comp'1  is  lawfully  seised  of  the  ferme  called  Bellsies  &  of  lands  &  tenem*8  in 

Eastberholt  and  Houlton,  and  did  imploy  Edward  Clarke  of  Eastberholt  to  let  said  lands,  whoe  had 
bin  formlly  imployed  in  that  kinde  by  the  grandmother  of  Comp11-  Richard  Webb  did  form]  ly 
occupy  said  ferme  vnd  some  of  Complts  ancestors.  But  Agnes  &  John  Webb  doe  deny  that  there 
was  more  rent  than  the  yearly  some  of  forty  pounds.  They  have  bin  much  dampnified  by  the 
molestacon  of  one  Thomas  Browne  whoe  {/tended  to  haue  a  lease  of  the  pmisses.  Edward  Clarke 
hath  lyved  for  many  yeares  in  Eastbeholt  &  is  a  man  of  great  estate  &  creddit  in  the  county  and 
Comp'6  may  vse  his  testimony  well  enough  if  he  thinke  soe  fitt.  Defts  vtterly  deny  that  they  did 
{/tend  to  clayme  the  {/misses  other  than  as  fermors,  or  that  they  have  spoyled  the  mansion  house  or 
comitted  wasts.  And  Def1,  Charles  Sterne  doth  deny  the  felling  <&  carrying  away  of  wTood  or  timber 
growing  vpon  said  grownds  saving  for  necessary  fyreing,  fencing  stuffe,  ploughbootf,  cartbootf, 
gatebootf  &  stylebootf,  which  the  lawe  doth  vsually  allowe  to  all  fermors. 

Charles  I,  B  &  A,  FF.  24,  22. 


FORTH,  CRYMBLE,  BODE. 


131 


Jportl),  Ccgmble,  33ot>e. 


....  Crymble  of  .  .  .  .= 


r-r~ 


.  ,  .  ux  .  .  .  Farmer,  .  .  .  ux 

1541.  1541. 

.  .  .  ux  Wm.  Taylor,  .  .  .  ux 
1541.  1541. 


Covvper,  Richard  Crymble  of  Rochford,  co.= 
Essex,  gent.  WillP.C.C.  lOAlenger, 
proved  15  Oct.  1541  ;  had  grandson 
Ghelsam,  John  Freborn  ;  held  lands  in  Foulnes 
and  Prittlewell,  and  leased  tythes  of 
the  Crown,  temp.  King  Henry  VIII. 


-Agnes,  named 
in  her  hus¬ 
band’s  will. 


Margery  Crymble, 
was  party  with  her 
brother  Richard 
Crymble  touching 
lease  of  Rougeward 
in  Foulnes. 


Henry  Crymble, 
living  1541,? 
when  he  had  a 
son  John  Crym¬ 
ble  and  other 
issue.  =t= 


William  Crymble, 
3d  son,  under  age 
in  1541;  apparent¬ 
ly  dead  in  1570. 


- — | — ! - 

Joan,  Margery  and 
Elizabeth,  named 
1541  in  their  father’s 
will,  and  then  appar¬ 
ently  under  age. 


Agnes,  wife  of  Wil¬ 
liam  Stamer,  1541 ; 
had  son  Edward 
Stamer,  and  divers 
other  children. 


Margaret, named  1541 
in  her  father’s  will  ; 
described  as  Margaret 
Betts  in  her  brothers’ 
wills  1570  and  1572. 


Richard  Crymble  of  Rochford,  2d  John  Crymble, 
son.  Will  Lond.  Consistory  27  cousin  and  de- 
Aug.  1572,  proved  7  Oct.  by  Susan  visee  of  Rich- 
hisrelict;theirissuealldead;many  ard  Crymble  in 
bequests  to  religion  and  the  poor.  1572. 


1st  wife,  said  to=pGeorge  Crymble,  1st  husband= 


have  brought  her 
husband  a  large 
portion  in  marriage. 
Bode  c.  Forth,  Chas. 
L,  B.  &  A. 


of  Thomasine  Hilles,  of  Great 
Stambridge,  co.  Essex,  eldest 
sou  of  Richard  Crymble  of 
Rochford;  Will  P.C.C.  40 
Daper  2  April  1570,  proved 
15  Nov.  1572. 


^Thomasine,  dau.  of= 
Hilles  of  Essex,  so 
described  in  the 
Blois  MS.  and  the 
For  tli — Win  thr  op 
pedigreeof  1611 ;  died 
before  Dec.  1612. 


-Thomas  Bode  of  Rochford,  co.= 
Essex,  2d  husband.  Will  Arch. 
Essex  18  June,  23  Eliz.  ;  prob. 
23  Aug.  1581 ;  Ob.  s  p. ;  devised 
estates  to  wife  and  brothers. 
See  Bode  Pedigree,  Harl.  MS. 
1432. 


:John  Forthe  of  Great  Stam¬ 
bridge,  co.  Essex,  gent.,  6th  son 
of  Wm.  Forth  of  Hadleigh,  3d 
husband.  WillA rch. Essex 7Dec. 
1612,  proved  4  June  1613  ;  es¬ 
tates  to  his  daughter  Winthrop 
and  her  children. 


Grace  Crymble, - 
sole  da.  and  heiress 
by  this  marriage  ; 
ultimately  co-heir¬ 
ess  with  her  sister 
of  the  half  blood 
Susau  Forth. 


= William  Bode  of  Much 
Stambridge, gent,  bro¬ 
ther  &  devisee  of  Thos 
Bode,  1581;  Will  Arch. 
Essex,  June  24  1591  ; 
prob.  2  Oct.  ;  names 
daughters  unmarried, 
Susan  and  Frances. 


George  Crymble, 
s.  and  h.,  under 
age  1570  ;  de¬ 
visee  of  Thos 
Bode  1581  ;  Ob. 
s.p. 

Mary  Crymble. 


Susan  Crymble,  da.  and= 
co-heiress,  half-sister  to 
Mary  Forth.  Her  2d  hus¬ 
band  was  Thos  Golding  of 
Poslingford,  co.  Suff.,  Esq  ; 
her  Will,  Dean  &  Chap. 
Westm.,  15  July  1631  ; 
pi’ob,  8  April  1634. 


:Edward  Forth  of  Kel- 
vedon,  co.  Essex,  gent., 
5th  son  of  Wm  Forth 
of  Hadleigh,  co.  Sufi., 
Esq.,  brother  to  John 
Forth.  Will  P.C.C.  26 
Sainberbe,  24  Feb.  33 
Eliz  1591. 


Mary  Forth,  sole  dau. 
and  heiress,  half  sister 
to  Susan  Crymble;  b.  1 
Jan.  1583  ;  mar.  16  Ap. 
1605,  John  Winthrop, 
after  Gov. of  Massachu¬ 
setts;  d.  12  April  1643. 
See  Winthrop  Prd.  B, 


John  Bode  of  Daviug-=j=Mary,  da.  of  Henry 


ton  Priory,  co.  Kent, 
Esq.,  only  son  ;  entered 
ped.  in  the  Visit11  of 
thatCounty,1619.  Will 
P.C.C.  51  Rivers  31 
Aug.  1641;  Prob1  1644. 


Heyman  of  Selliuge, 
co.  Kent,  Esq.,  1619, 
2d  wife.  Harl.  MS. 
1432.  The  1st  wife 
was  Mary,  da.  of 
Sir  Edwd  Boys  of 
Kent. 


Edward  Forth,  s.aud- 
h.,deadl634;  of  New 
Windsor,  co.  Berks, 
gent ,  9  July  1612, 
when  he  made  Will 
64  Fenner  P.C.C.  ; 
Probate  27  July;  Ob. 
vita  matris. 


-Barbara 


Jiving 

1612. 


- ! — | — - - - 

John  Forth, citizen 
and  clot.hworlcer 
of  London  ;  dead 
1634  s  p  ;  had  lost 
much  merchandise 
by  pirates. 

William  Forth. 


Thomasine  ux  Ro¬ 
bert  Smith,  citizen 
and  grocer  of 
London  ;  had  son 
Henry  Smith  who 
entered  ped.  in  the 
London  Visit11  of 
1633. 


Fi  ances  ux 
Richard  Ver¬ 
non,  citizen 
and  mercer  of 
London  ;  wi¬ 
dow  in  1631. 


John  Bode, 
borne  and 
sonne,”  to 
third  only 
the  rest  to  his  half-sister 
Mary  Bode. 


_ 1 

“  my  stub- 
disobedient 
have  one 
of  estates, 


James  Forth  of  Windsor,  co. 
Berks.,  Esq,  1635,  s.  and  h. 
Boae  c.  Bode,  A0  1634  ;  Bode  c. 
Forth  1635  ;  of  Eaton,  co.  Bucks. 
1640  ;  Forth  c.  JVardner,  ChasI. 
B&  A  ;  lands  in  Holton,  co.  Suff. 


Sybil  Forth  ux 
Cornelius  Hol¬ 
land  of  Westmin¬ 
ster,  Esq  ,  1631, 
and  had  dau. 
Susan  Holland. 


Charles  Forth, 
1634:  then  dead 
without  issue  ; 
grandson  of 
Susan  Golding. 


Katherine,  ux  Richd 
Lowefield  and  had  issue. 


Susan 

Clarke, 

1631. 


ux  Fraueis 
and  had  issue. 


Richard  Vernon. 
John  Vernon. 


Edward  Vernon. 


This  pedigree  is  founded  for  the  most  part  upon  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  Forth  c.  Bode,  Chas.  I.,  B,  k  A. 
Bode  c.  Forth,  Chas  I.,  B.  &  A.,  BB.  102,  26  ;  and  Bode  c.  Forth,  Chas.  I.,  BB.  105,  13. 


FF.  18,  49  ; 


Ulotoell  of  ®Bfntcl)unl). 


Who  was  Elizabeth,  daughter  and  heiress  of  Powell  of  Wales,  and  wife  of  William  Forth  of 
Hadleigh  1  A  prolonged  and  most  careful  search  amongst  the  wills  at  Somerset  House  and  other 
Probate  Courts;  the  Fines,  Inquisitions,  Close  Rolls,  Patent  Rolls,  Ac.,  Ac.,  at  the  Record  Office;  and 
the  Pedigrees  and  Genealogical  Collections  at  the  Heralds’  College  and  elsewhere,  has  failed  to  elicit  a 
single  fact  in  answer  to  this  question.  As  Elizabeth  Powell  she  witnessed  the  will  of  her  future  hus¬ 
band’s  father  in  1510.  As  Elizabeth  Forth  she  became  the  mother  of  an  heir  in  1541.  We  should 
have  been  altogether  without  clue  to  her  identity  had  not  three  of  her  sons,  or  their  immediate 
descendants,  assumed  the  very  remarkable  quarterings  of  Powell  of  Whitchurch  in  Glamorganshire. 
The  eldest,  Robert  Forth,  caused  them  to  be  worked  into  the  great  gateway  of  Butley  Abbey,  where 
Davy,  the  Suffolk  Antiquary,  saw  and  noted  them  in  1810.  They  embellish  the  brass  of  William 
Forth,  the  third  son,  who  died  at  Hadleigh  in  1599.  And  John  Forth,  the  youngest  son,  seems  to 
have  assisted,  in  1611,  a  year  or  two  before  his  death,  in  the  preparation  of  the  “Emblazoned 
Pedigree  ”  of  Forth  and  Winthrop,  in  which  the  quarterings  of  Powell,  Brokenspeare,  Gwaringde,  Morley 
and  Vaughan  are  marshalled  in  all  their  splendour.  These  quarterings  were  allowed  to  Philip 
Forth,  her  grandson,  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1612.  This  being  the  case,  we  give  pedigrees  of 
the  one  and  only  family  of  Powell  to  whom  such  quarterings  could  possibly  have  belonged  :  and,  as 
Welsh  evidences  are  scarce,  excerpts  of  two  documents  which  help  to  establish  the  date  of  the  Appowell 
who  married  the  heiress  of  Vaughan  of  Methvr — the  conjectural  grandfather  of  Elizabeth  Forth. 


5Bim&  of  ®Ijoittas  ijpofodl,  1525, 

Thomas  Ap  Howell  de  Whitchurch  in  Marchia  Wall  Gentilman,  Robtus  Ap  Howell  de  Ou  .  .  . 
in  coin  Heref.  Gentilman,  Joties  Ap  Guyllym  de  ffalley  in  com.  Heref.  Gentilman,  A  Hugo  Vaughan 
de  Kyngis  Caple  in  com.  Heref.  Gentilman,  recog.  debere  dhi  Rege  centum  libras,  Ac.  The  condicion 
of  this  recognizance  is  that  Thomas  ap  Howell,  Ac.,  psonally  appere  at  next  gen’all  sessions,  and  in  the 
meane  tyme  kepe  the  Kinges  peax  against  William  Rudhale  the  Kingis  8’iant  at  the  lawTe :  they 
sonally  to  appeje  before  the  King  at  Westm  A  then  &  there  to  aunswer  to  all  suche  caussis  as  shalbe 
allegid  against  them.  Close  Roll  15  H.  8. 

(Hill  of  (Halter  ^  Robert,  1558. 

Walter  ap  Robert  of  Trelecke,  co.  Monmouth,  Esq,  8  Aug.  1558.  To  be  buried  in  the  parryshe 
churehe  of  Trelecke.  To  Jane  my  wyff  the  terme  of  years  I  have  in  the  Mylls  at  Vske.  To  George  ap 
Robert,  my  sonne  A  heire,  my  lands  A  tenements  in  Pantglasse  wtbin  the  parryshe  of  Treleck :  for 
lacke  of  yssue  remaynder  vnto  my  sonne  Anthony  ap  Robert — Chrofer  ap  Robert — Thomas  ap  Robert 
(yonges  sonne) — right  heires  of  me.  Lease  graunted  by  one  Thomas  Murtyn  late  abbut  of  Tyntarne 
vnto  my  father  Thomas  ap  Robert.  My  daughters  Johan,  Mary,  Elizabeth,  Alice,  fflorence.  Elizabethe 
Appowell  my  suster.  My  goodis  A  cattells  wythiu  the  counties  of  Monmouth  A  Glouc:  Thomas  ap 
Morgon,  Knyght,  and  my  brother  yn  lawe  Thomas  Apowell  of  Whitchurch,  gentilman,  to  be  my  laufull 
executors.  Probat  14  Martij  1558  executoribus.  Cur.  Prterog.  Cant.  51  Welles. 


POWELL  OF  WHITCHURCH. 


133 


$otoell  of  Wntcburrl). 

From  the  Golden  Grove  Book,  four  volumes  of  Welsh  Pedigrees  collected  by  Hugh  Thomas,  Deputy 
Herald  to  Garter  King  of  Arms  in  1703,  lent  to  the  Public  Record  Office  by  the  Earl  of 
Cawdor.  The  annotations  in  brackets  are  attributed  to  Theophilus  Jones,  the  historian  of 
Brecknockshire.  Op.  Cit ,  vol.  i,  B.  209-11,  218,  220,  221. 


Herbert  the  son  of  Godwyn  the  son  of  Elfryd,  a  British  Nobleman  disinherited  by  \Vm  the  Conqueror,  m/:  (as 
Bede  Llwyd)  da:  of  Godwin  Earl  of  Kent.  =p 

Henry  PFitz  Herbert  Chamberlain  to  King  Henry  ye  first  m/:  (as  R.  Brooke)  Lucia  (as  Cl:  Cooke)  Julia  feh:  Robert 
Corbet  Lord  of  Alcoster  in  Com.  Warwick.  (Eng:  328.)  =p 

i - - — - - 1 

Herbert  Fitz  Henry  (as  Cl.  C  )  m/:  Emma  f:  Stephen  Earl  of  Bloys  and  Charteras.  sister  to  Stephen  King  of  England, 
her  mo:  Ella  f:  Wm  ye  Conqueror.  =p 

i - 1 

Herbert  Fitz  Herbert  Ld  of  Dean  Forrest  and  Chamberlaine  to  King  Stephen  m/:  Lucia  feh:  to  Miles  Fitzwalter  Earl 
of  Hereford,  br:  205.  =p 

i - 1 - 1 - - - — - 1 

Fetronella  m /:  Reynald  Peter  fitz  Herbert  as  Judge  m/:  Alice  f:  Roger  Fitz  Rogers  a  great  Barou  of  Northum- 
Egidius  de  Ca-  Fitzher-  berland.  [Sheriff  of  Yorkshire  in  1205:  Lord  of  Barnstaple  1217  :  died  1235.  Edmns  Bar. 
rew  (p.  89).  bert.  Gen.  V.  3,  p.  263.]  =f= 

Herbert  Fitz-  Reynald  Fitz  Peter  m/:  Joan  f:  Sr  Wm  de  fortibus  Knt.  Arg:  3  fornicauxes  gu:  al’s  unieornia  as  yu 
peter.  S.T.  office  of  Armes  :  his  eldest  Da:  &  coh:  The  sd  Peter  gave  Arms,  per  pale  az  &  gu  3  lions  ramp6  arg6. 


Herbert  Ld  of  Llanhowel  &  Beachley  m/:  Marg'  f:  S1'  John  Welsh  Kn6  (his  Arms)  arg  a  bend  gu. 


Adam  Herbert  m/:  Christian  fh:  Gwaringdhy  Lord  of  Gwerndhu.  [Arms  per  pale  az  &  sa  3  fl  de  lis  A.  from  Gwarin 
ddu  &  Ynyr  King  of  Gwent.]  =f- 

Jenkinrap  Adam  of  Gwerndhij  m/:  Gwenll.  f:  Sr  Aaron  ap  Rees.  Others  say  he  m/:  Alse  fh:  Dd  Roth  Ld  of  Roth. 
Arms,  arg  on  a  bend  cottis’d  sab:  3  mullets  of  the  first.  =p 

I - 1 

Gwylym  &c.  m/:  Gwemll.  f:  Howel  Vyclian  ap  Holl  ap  Yertli. 


Thomas  Gll’rn  of  Plas,  yn  y  betliyr  of  Llan  S6  fread  (as  Cott:  b)  he  m/:  Mawd  fh/:  Sr  Jn°  Morley  of  Rhagland  Kn6. 


Howel  of  Porthyr  which  he  purchased  m/:  .  .  .  f:  Huntley.  [By  his]  2da  uxr  Cath:  f:  Grono  ap  Jvor  Hir  (gl:  54) 
[he  had  with  other  sons],  =f= 

Hopkin.  Hopkin  aforesd  was  of  Whitchurch  &  m/:  (as  W.H.)  .  .  .  f.  Hugh  Huntley  of  Hadnock. 


Marg66  m/:  Nicholas  Wm.  (Gl:  2.) 


Dd  Vicar  of  Llandilo  Cwesynyr. 


Thos.  Thos  m/:  .  .  .  f.  .  .  .  Moore,  Vicar 
=f=  of  Newland.  =p 

i - 1 - 1  i - 1  p- - 1  i 

Robert  Powel  &c.  m/:  Reynald  m/:  .  .  .  f:  Morgan  Jane  m/:  Jn  Philpot  Joan  m/:  Wm  Gill’ms  of  Hopkin. 

Mawd  fh:  Lewis  Van  Gamage.  =f=  of  Rogefield.  Monmouth, 

of  Merthyr,  br:  121.  p 


Bridget  m/:  John  Dd  GU’m  of  Treleg. 

~r 


Jane  m/:  Wm  Jn  2d  Wm  Catclimay  of  Werceston. 

~T 


Tho3  Poll  &c.  m/:  .  .  .  f:  Tho3  John  Poll,  John  [m.  d.  of  Jevan  David  Phe.  Robert  of  Howent  [m.  Elizabeth, 
ap  Robert  of  Pantglas.  S:  T:  ap  Jenkin.]  d.  of  Wm.  Brown  of  Ross.] 


Harry. 


I - 

m/:  John 


.  da. 


- 1 - - i - 1 

.  da.  Walter  Powel  &c.  m/:  Eliz:  f:  Sr  Thomas  John  Poll’ m/:  Tho3  Poll’ m/:  .  .  .  Sr 
Herbert  Knt.  to:  =f= 


in  Wiltshire.  John  Bourn  Kn'. 


no 


134 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Clje  Dtscent  of  Cljomas  $otoell. 

From  “  Heraldic  Collections  hy  W.  Penson,  Lancaster  Herald 1613 — 1637.  Harl.  MS.  1052,  fo.  23b,  24- 

Arms  : — Quarterly, — 1.  Powell ;  Per  pale  three  lions  rampant.  2.  Brokenspear  ;  A  cross  charged  with  five  mullets. 
3.  Gwaringdu  ;  Per  pale  three  fleur  de  lys.  4.  Morley  ;  a  lion  rampant  Sable,  crowned  Or. 

Crest  : — A  blackamore  proper,  crined  Or. 


Godwyn  of  Cornwall.- 


”  l 

J 


Herbert,  sonne  to  Godwyn=j= 
_ _ ! 


Peter,  sonne  to  Herbert= 


I 


Reginald,  sonne  to  Peter.  ^p.Sibilla,  daughter  and  heire  of  Bletliyu  Brockspere,  Lord  of  Lowell  and  Bechley. 
Adam  sonne  to  Reignald.=j=.  .  .  Da.  and  heire  of  Gwarin  DDe. 


Jenkyn,  sonne  at  Adam.=p.  .  .  Da:  of  Jevor  ap  Bledre. 

I 


William,  sonne  to  Jenkyn.=p.  .  .  Da:  of  Howell  Vaughan  ap  Howell  Yerworth. 


Thomas,  sonne  to  William.=j=Mawde,  Da:  and  coheire  to  Sr  John  Morley,  Knight. 


Howell,  sonne  to  Thomas.  Of  this  Howell,  Powells  of  Whitecliurch  tooke  first  their  =j=Katherine,  Da:  to  Gronwey  ap  Jevor. 
surname  of  Powells. 


Hopkin  Powell.  This  Hopkin  was  ye  first  that  tooke  the  surname^.  .  .  Da.  of  Hugh  Huntley  of  Hadnock  in  com. 
of  Powell.  I  Glouc.  [He  was  living  1456  and  1483]. 


Robert  Powell.=j=  .  .  .  Da:  and  heire  of  Lewis  Vaughan  of  Marther. 


Thomas  Powell,  sonne  to  Rob* 1.  Elizabeth,  Da:  to  Tho.  Probart  of  Pantglas.  [Sister  and  devisee  of  Walter  Probart,  1558.] 

i 


Thomas  Powell  nowe  Liueing  A0  1576.=Persida,  Da:  to  Sr  Jo.  Borne  Kt. 


The  Bourne  Pedigree  in  the  Visitations  of  Somersetshire,  1565 — 1623,  Ilarl.  MS.  1445,  describes  Sir  John  as  one 
of  the  principal  Secretaries  of  State  to  Queen  Mary.  In  his  will,  P.C.C.  29  Pyekeryng,  dated  18  May  1563,  he  leaves 
two  parts  of  his  Manor  of  Batenhall,  co.  Worcester,  to  Dorothy  his  wife,  and  the  residue  to  Anthony  his  son  and 
heir.  He  also  makes  provision  for  the  tuition  and  government  of  his  children  during  their  minority.  This  will  was 
proved  1  July  1575,  by  Dame  Dorothy  his  relict,  and  later  on  Administration  was  granted  to  Anthony  Bourne  the 
son,  21  July  1576,  his  mother  having  died.  From  the  letters  of  this  Anthony,  Add.  MS.  23,  212,  circa  1577,  we 
learn  that  he  and  Thomas  Powell  had  been  friends  together  at  Oxford,  he  having  on  one  occasion  rescued  the  latter 
from  the  police,  and  on  another  entrusted  him  with  money  for  the  payment  of  his  debts. 

The  earlier  ancestry  of  Powell  of  Whitchurch  is  given  us,  with  more  or  less  exactness,  in  the  pedigree  drawn  up 
by  the  order  of  King  Edward  the  Fourth,  when  he  created  William  Herbert  Earl  of  Pembroke  in  1460.  (See  Coxe’s 
“Tour  in  Monmouthshire,”  pp,  141,  421,  and  the  articles  on  the  Herberts  in  BurkeV  “ Extinct  Peerages.”)  For  further 
information  respecting  the  Whitchurch  family  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  “  Genealogies  of  Morgan  and  Glamorgan,”  by 
George  Thomas  Clark,  pp.  264,  265,  and  to  the  Wakeman  MS.,  an  admirable  compilation,  now  or  lately'  in  the  custody 
of  the  Society  of  Antiquaries. 


POWELL  OF  WHITCHURCH. 


135 


ffly  Horti  of  JPenibrootv’s  iJebtgm. 

“  Drawen  by  Brooke,  Yorke  Hereaught Abridged  from  Harl.  MS.  6068,  “ Records  and  Pedigrees  of  Wales,”  fo.  55b — 69b. 
Henry  htz  herbert,  Chamberlane  to  King  Henry  the  first.=f=Lulia,  da.  to  Robert  Corbett ,  Lo.  of  the  Castell  of  Alencester. 


Herbert  Utz  henry.  q= 
_ I 


Herbert  fitz  Herbert,  Lo,  of  the  forest  of  Beane  by  his=f  Lucia,  ladye  of  the  forest  of  Deane,  sister  and  coheire  to  Henry,  Erie  of  Hereff  and 
wife,  Ao.  H.  2.  I  Counstable  of  England,  slayne  by  his  servaunt  24  H.  2. 

I - 1 

Peter  fitz  Herbert,  Lorde  of  the  third  part  Brecknocke  by  the  gift  of  Kin  ge  John.=f=  Alice,  daughter  of  ..  .  Saint  John. 


Reginald  fitz  Peeter,  Lord  &  Baron  of  Llanloneny  by  lorit  A»  H.  3  FfJoane,  doughB  of  William  defortibus. 


Peeterfitz  Reginald  mar.^f  Alice,  da.  db  heire  of  Blethin  Brodespere. 


Herbert  fitz  Peeter.  P’tie  p.  pale  b/g  3  lions  r’pt  ar.=f=Margett,  do.  to  Sr  John  Welsh,  Knight. 


Adam  fitzherbert,  lord  of  Llanoveny  and  Betesley,=j-Christiane  do.  <£•  sole  heire  to  Gwaring  dduy. 


Sr  Thomas  fitz  Adam,  Knight,  eldest  sonn,  Lord  Jenkyn  or  John  2  sonn,  Lorde  of  Giver n  ddee  WenUian,  doughter  of  Sr  Aron  ap 
of  Llanowell.  =r  ye  gift  of  Christian  his  moth- .  \  Pldri,  Knight. 

4'  ' 

I - 1 

Wdliam,  sonn  <k  heire  of  Jenkyn,  Lord  of  Gwerndhy, WenUian,  daughter  of  Howell  Ychan.  [Descended  of  the  Kings  of  Gwent.] 


John,  eldest  sonn  and  heir,  Lord  of 
Gwern  ddee.  =f= 

4/ 


Dauid  second  son  of 
W m.  =7= 


Howell,  3  sonn,  ivas  of 
Treowen.  =p 

4/ 


Thomas,  sonn  of  Wm.,=fMaud,  da.  and  coheir  to 
was  of  Pertheir,  he  Sr  John  Morley,  Knight, 
maried.  \  [Lord  of  Raglan  Castle]. 


Howell  Thomas  of  Peythier,  esq.  :  of  this  Howell  Yeuan  Thomas, 
ar  the  Powells  of  Pirthier  it  Whitchurch  descended.  second  sonn. 


Sr  William  7'homas,  Knight, Glades,  doughter  of  Sr  Dauid  Gam, 
Lo.  of  Raglan.  I  Knight,  <£•  sister  of  Morgan  Gam. 


_ i 


llopkin.  Harl.: 
MS.  6068,  fo. 
106b. 


William  Erie  oj  Pem-^fAnn,  da.  of 


broke,  slayne  at  Ban. 
burue  on  the  part  of 
Edw.  4- 


Sr  Water 
Deuereux, 
Knight. 


Elizabeth Herbert, 
mar.  Sr  Henry 
Stradlinge,  Knight. 


_ i 


Sr  Richard  Herbert  of  Colbrook,  K.^Margett, 


of  whom  Mathew  Herbert  is  descended  : 
[and  the  Lords  Herbert  of  Cherbury]. 


\1/ 


daughter  of 
Thomas  ap 
Griffith. 


Robert  mar.  Mauld, 
d.  <£•  h.  to  lewis 
Ychan,  heir  of  Me- 
thyr.  [Vaughan.] 


Katherin  Herbert, 
wiff  to  George  Gray, 
Earle  of  Kent,  <k 
lord  of  Ruthin. 


I - 1 

.  .  .  Powell  af 
Wales,  circa 
1520.  Suffolk 
Visitation, 

16 12, Pedigree 
of  Forth. 


Sr  George  Herbert 
of  St  Julians ,  mar¬ 
ied  dough t  to  Sr 
Richard  Croft. 

nU 


William  Herbert, 
Erleof  Huntingdon 
maried  Mary,  do.  <k 
heire  to  Richard, 
Erie  Riuers. 


Ann,  iviff 
to  John 
Greye, Lorde 
Powys. 


Sr  Walter  Her¬ 
bert,  mar.  Ann, 
sister  to  Edward 
Staff:  Duke  of 
Buckingham. 


Mauld.  wiff  to  Henry 
Percy,  Erie  of  North¬ 
umberland,  slaine  at 
Talton  fielde. 


Sir  Henry  Graye, 
second  of  George 
and  brother  and 
heire  to  Rich¬ 
ard,  Erie  of 
Kent. 


Charles  Som-=f  Elizabeth, 


ersett,  Erie  of 
Worcester, 
base  sonne  to 
Henry,  D.  of 
Somersett. 


doughter  and 
heire  of  Wm. 
Erie  of  Hunt¬ 
ingdon.  [heir¬ 
ess  of  Raglan.] 


ElianorPercie, 
mar.  to  Edw. 
Stafford,  Duke 
of  Bucking¬ 
ham’ 


Ann  Percie, 
maried  to  Wil¬ 
liam,  Erie  of 
Arvnddl,  who 
died  35  H.  8. 


Margett  Per¬ 
cie,  iviff  to 
Henry,  Lord 
Cliff  or de,  first 
Erie  of  Com- 
berland. 


Elizabeth  Powell, 
d  andh.,mar.Wm. 
Forth  of  Hadleigh, 
co.  Sufi.,  Esq. 

®r 

i - 1 

Johu  Forth,  6th 
son,  whose  d.  and 
heir  Mary  Forth, 
bom  1583,  mar. 
John  Wintlirop. 


Henrye  Graye 
of  Wrest  in 
the  Countey  of 
Bedford,  esq. 


Henry 
Somersett, 
Earle  of 
Worcester. 


Elizabeth  Stafford, 
wff  to  Thomas 
Howard,  Duk  of 
Norfolk. 


Henry 

Stafford, 

Lord 

Stafford. 


Henry  Fitsalan,  Lo. 
Hetravers  <k  Erie 
of  Arundell.  Bur. 
at  Aru:  1579. 


Henry,  Lo.  Clifford, 
Erleof  Comberland, 
father  to  George, 
now  liuinge  1597 • 


l - 1 

Henry 
Grave,  Erie 
of  Kent, 
now  liuinge 
1597. 


_ i 


William  Somer¬ 
sett,  Erl  of  Wor¬ 
cester,  father  to 
Edward,  Erie  of 
Worcester,  1597. 


7'homas  Howard, 
Viscount  Bin- 
don,  sonn  to  Tho: 
Duk  of  Norff. 


1 — l 

Edward, 
Lo.  Staf¬ 
ford,  now 
liuing. 


La  Marie  fitz 
Alayne,  2  dough¬ 
ter  tfc  coheire,  m. 
to  7'ho:  Duke  of 
Norfolck, 


i - 1 

Frances  Clif¬ 
ford,  iviff  to 
Phe.Lo.  Whar¬ 
ton,  now  liuing 
1597. 


Henry,  Lord. 
Pei  eye,  restored 
and  created 
Earle  of  North- 
umberlande  8 
E.  4 

W 
i - 1 

SirThomas  Per¬ 
cie,  second  sonn 
to  Henry, Erie  of 
Northumber- 
lande.  =f= 

l - 1 

Henry  Percy,  Erie 
of  Northumber- 
lande  if  died  in 
the  totcre  oj  Lon¬ 
don. 


Clopton  of  jWelforP. 


^rnt0rtal  Searings. 

The  Arms  of  Clopton,  Sable  a  bend  argent  between  two  cotices  dancettee  Or,  appear  upon 
the  seals  attached  to  their  deeds  and  charters  from  the  middle  of  the  fourteenth  century  downwards. 
Heading  the  Clopton  pedigrees  in  Harl.  MS.  1103,  a  contemporary  copy  of  the  original  Visitation 
of  Suffolk  by  William  Harvey,  Clarencieux  King  of  Arms  in  1561,  are  the  following  shields: — 

Clopton  of  Kentwell  Hall  in  Long  Melford. — Quarterly  of  six.  1.  Clopton;  as  above. 
2,  Mylde :  Argent,  a  lion  rampant  Sable,  over  all  a  fess  counter-compony  or  and  azure.  3,  Francis  : 
Gules,  a  saltire  between  four  crosses  patee  or.  4,  Iioydon ;  Chequy  argent  and  gules  a  cross  azure. 
5,  Knevitt :  Argent,  a  bend  within  a  bordure  engrailed  sable.  6,  Argent,  three  lions  rampant  gules. 
This  quartering  which  is  assigned  to  Kyrkham  in  Harl.  MS.  1560,  and  to  Belhouse  by  Dr.  Howard,  is 
common  to  both  families.  The  Crest  is  a  wolfs  head,  per  pale  or  and  azure,  and  the  Motto, 
“  Dor  en  avant.” 

Clopton  of  Liston. — Quarterly  of  four.  1,  Clopton.  2.  Mylde.  3,  Francis.  4,  Saye  ;  Per  pale, 
azure  and  gules,  three  chevrons  argent  voided  and  counter-changed  of  the  field,  over  all  a  crescent 
on  a  mullet  for  difference. 

Clopton  of  Sudbury. — Quarterly  of  six,  as  in  Clopton  of  Kentwell,  impaling  Peacock,  Gules,  on 
a  fess  argent,  between  three  plates,  each  charged  with  a  peacock’s  head  erased  azure,  as  many  mascles 
sable  ;  over  all  a  mullet  for  difference. 

Harl.  MS.  1820,  has  Clopton  of  Kentwell,  Quarterly  of  six,  as  before,  impaling  Baruardiston  ; 
Azure,  a  fess  dancettee  ermine,  between  six  cross  crosslets  argent. 

Harl.  MS.  1560,  fo.  5,  has  Quarterly  of  eleven.  1,  Clopton.  2,  Mylde.  3,  Francis. 
4,  Knevett.  5,  Kirkham.  6,  Bozun  of  Lincolnshire ;  Argent,  three  bird-bolts  gules.  7,  Uffleete ; 
Argent,  on  a  fess  azure  three  fleurs  de  lis  or.  8,  Deane ;  Sable,  two  bars  argent  within  a  bordure 
gules.  9,  Paynell  ;  Gules,  two  chevrons,  within  a  bordure  argent.  10,  Argent,  semee  of  fleurs  de 
lis,  a  lion  rampant  sable.  11,  Sable,  three  cinquefoils,  all  within  a  bordure  argent.  The  whole 
being,  apparently,  the  achievement  of  Mary  Clopton,  afterwards  the  wife  of  Sir  William  Cordell. 

The  Shield  of  Clopton,  quarterly  of  twenty,  from  Sir  William  Clopton’s  monument  in  Melford 
Church,  is  pictured  and  described  in  Dr.  Howard’s  edition  of  Harvey’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk. 


CLOPTON  OF  MELFORD. 


137 


The  wolf’s  head,  as  Clopton’s  Crest,  appears  on  the  seal  attached  to  a  charter  of  Sir  William 
Clopton  of  the  third  year  of  Henry  the  fourth,  1402.  It  is  occasionally  represented,  as  on  the 
Clopton  monument  at  Lyston,  issuing  from  a  ducal  coronet. 

A  great  number  of  Clopton  wills,  deeds,  pedigrees,  &c.,  have  been  printed  in  Dr.  Howard’s 
edition  of  “  Harvey’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk,”  vol.  i,  pp.  20 — 136.  Some  additional  evidences 
from  the  De  Banco  Rolls  and  other  sources  are  given  below. 


St.  3Cns  r.  Clapton,  1298. 

Suff.  Johannes  de  Scalariis  attachiatus  fuit  ad  respond  Wiffo  de  Clopton  de  placito  quare 

ipe  simul  cum  Rico  fratre  ejus  vi  &  armis  intravit  man]  ium  pfati  WiRi  de  Clopton  &  Aliciam 

filiam  &  alPam  heredem  Warini  fit  Hugonis  cujus  custodiam  &  maritagium  idem  Johannes  pdco 
WiRo  prius  vendiderat  ibidem  inventum  cepit  &  abduxit  &  earn  adhuc  detinet. 

Et  Johes  venit  &  defendit  vim  &  injuriam,  &c.  Et  bene  cognovit  qd  aliquo  tempore 
dimisit  pdco  WiRo  custodiam  &  maritagium  pdce  Alicie  et  bene  defendit  qd  ipe  non  amovit 

pdcam  Aliciam  a  custodia  ipius  Willi  nec  p  ipm  amota  fuit,  &c.,  et  ita  ponit  se  sup  patriam  & 
Wittus  similit.  Placita  Coram  Rege,  J/.9  H.  3,  1265,  Abbreviatio  Placitorum,  p.  156. 


Warinus  fil  Huyonis,=f=Alicie  uxor  sua — Johinnis  de  Scalar 
17  E.  1.  |  hceres.  2°  maritus. 

Hob!  de  Seint=  Mabdia  fil  it-  hcer.  Alicia  alt.  hceres,=j=  Walter  de  Cloptan,  4. 
Lislie.  matris  sue.  matris  sue.  I  26  E.  1. 


William,  fil. 


Willm  de  Clopton. 


~r 

H  ugo.  5. 


Adam,  a 
priest. 


Wrn. 

s.p. 


— i 
Robert. 


Contention  ’twixt  Robert  &  Mabel  Seintlish  on  the  one  part  &  Walter  &  Alice  Clopton  on  the 
other  part,  after  the  death  of  Warren  sone  of  Hughe,  for  lands  in  Cowling,  Estbersham,  Thimbelthorp, 
llofham,  &  Cardston.  The  agreement  was  made  that  Rob  &  Mable  should  have  all  Warren’s  tenements 
n  Thimblethorp  Rnffam  &  Cardston,  with  the  tenement  in  Eastbersham  which  Roger  de  Fenditton  did 
j'urchase  of  John  Scales  or  Scala ;  so  that  Walter  &  Alice  must  follow  the  sute  against  John  Warren 
Earle  of  Surry,  now  tennant  thereof,  or  against  his  heires  in  the  Rings  Corts,  &  shall  have  payd  them 
for  costs  yearly  two  marks  for  6  years  at  Easter  &  Michaelmas. 

“  Geneal.  of  Suff.  Fams.”  MS.  quondam  penes  Sir  J.  Blois,  p.  125. 


Will  of  Sir  Waltrr  Clopton,  H13. 

In  Dei  nomine  Amen.  Ego  Walterus  Clopton  miles  de  Hadlegh  compos  mentis  &  sane 
memorie  condo  testamentum  meum  in  hunc  modum.  Imprimis  lego  animam  meam  deo  beate  marie 
&  omnibus  sanctis  eius  &  corpus  meum  ad  sepeliend  in  cancello  in  capella  bte  marie  coram  ymagine 
eiusdem  ex  pte  borial.  Item  lego  sumo  altari  eiusdem  ecclie  quatuor  rnarcas.  Item  lego  ffabrice 
eiusdem  eccle  x  marc.  Item  lego  p  quodam  tabernaculo  de  nouo  repando  predict  ymaginis  iij3  iiijd. 

T 


138 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Item  lego  Elizabeth  vxori  mee  omnia  lectistjnia  mea  exceptis  quatuor  lectis  liberis  meis  exhibend 
secundu  discrecionem  executorum  meorum  &  ornamenta  aula  A  vtensilia  coquiue  quantum  ad  vasa 
enea  A  erea.  Item  lego  Alicie  mee  'mam  peciam  argenteum  desup  auratt  cum  suo  cooptor  maior 
jfc.  Item  xvh  monete  celebracioni  iij  mitt  missarum  p  anima  mea  celebrand.  Residuum  vero  oms 
bonorum  meorum  non  supius  legatorum  do  &  lego  execut  meis  videlt  Elizabeth  vxi  mee  Witti 
Clopton  de  Stoke  armigero  Nicho  Seman  clico  A  Johanni  Lawsell  die,  vt  ea  disponant  p  anima 
mea  festinanans  melius  &  oportunius  quo  viderint  deo  placere.  Et  ad  istud  testrn  fidelit  constituo 
A  facio  ffdictos  Elizabeth  Wiftm  Nichii  &  Johnem  p  presentes.  In  cuius  rei  testiom  presenti 
testamento  sigillum  meum  apposui.  Hijs  testibj  Johne  Lyncolt  Rectore  ecclie  poch  pdict  Rico  Benton 
clico  &  Henrico  Devyngton  clico.  Dat  apud  Hadlegh  quinto  die  mensis  Maij  anno  domini  mittmo 
ccccmoxiij.  Item  constituo  supuisorem  istius  testamentuum  Johnem  Howard  militem. 

Tenore  presencium  nos  Wiftmus  Milton,  Ac.,  notum  facimus  vniulsb  qd  xxviij  die  mensis 
Maij  anno  domini  supradict  Probatum  fait  testamentum  suprascript  in  ecclia  conuentuali  de  Stoke 
Norvvicen  dioc.  Et  comissa  fait  administracio  bonorem  eiusdem  dominis  Nicho  Seman  executori 
testamento  nominato,  Ac. 

Lambeth  Wills  (“  Nowic  sede  vacante  ”),  Arundel,  vol.  ii,  fo.  191b. 


1 1  lauta  ffiloptmt  t.  ttlopton,  1417* 

Suff.  Rex  mandauit  Justic'  suis  hoc  hre  suu  clausum  in  hec  vba.  Henricus  dei  gra  Rex 
Angl  &  ffranc  A  Dns  Hihn  Justic’  suis  de  Banco  saitm.  Transcriptum  pedis  cuiusdam  finis  leuati 
in  Cur  Dili  E.  quondam  Regis  Angl  paui  nri  auno  regni  sui  vicesimo  primo  coram  Johe  de  Stonore 
A  socijs  suis  tunc  Justic  eiusdem  paui  nri  de  Banco  p  bre  suu  in?  Wittm  fil  Waiti  de  Clopton 
querentem  et  Thomam  de  Clopton  A  Gilbtli  de  Pentelow  psonam  ecclie  de  Depedene  deforc  de 
quatuor  mesuagiis  vno  molendino  duabjj  carucatis  sexcentis  A  quinqa  acris  tre  quinquaginta  A  octo 
acris  prti  quinquaginta  A  quinqa  acris  pasture  sexaginta  &  quatuor  acris  bosci  A  duodecim  libratis 
redditus  cum  ptin  in  Wickhambrok  Denardeston  Stradesele  Stansfeld  Haukedon  Depedene  fHoketon  A 
Parua  Thrillowe  quod  coram  nob  in  Cancellar  nra  venire  fecim3  vob  mittim9  sub  pede  sigilli  nri 
mandantes  vt  inspecto  Inscripto  ffdco  vltelius  ad  psecucoem  Thome  Bendyssh  A  Alicie  vSis  eius  A 
Johis  Badewelle  A  Elizabeth  vxis  eius  filiaru  A  heredu  Walfi  de  Clopton  fil  Willi  Clopton  inde  fieri 
fac  quod  de  iure  A  scdm  legem  A  consuetudinem  regni  nri  Angl  fore  videritis  faciend  T.  me  ipo 
apud  Westm  xvi  die  Januar  anno  r  n  quarto  Tnscriptu  pedis  finis  j^dci  sequitr  in  hec  vba.  Hec  est 
finalis  concordia  facta  in  Cur  dni  Regis  apud  Westhi  in  crastino  Ascensionis  dni  anno  regni  Edwardi 
Regis  Angl  Vci j  a  conquestu  vicesimo  primo  .  .  .  in?  Wittm  fil  IValti  de  Clopton  quer  &  Thomam 
de  Clopton  A  Gilbtm  de  Pentelowe  psonam  ecclie  de  Depedene  deforc  de  quatuor  mesuagiis  vno 
molendino  duab^  carucatis  Ac.  Vnde  plitu  conuencols  sum  _fuit  inb  eos.  Scilt  qd  jtdci  Thomas  & 
Gilbtus  concesserunt  jjdco  Witto  tria  mesuagia  sexcentas  A  quinq^  acras  tfe  triginta  A  quatuor  prati 
quadraginta  acras  pasture  triginta  &  sex  acras  bosci  A  octo  libratas  redditus  cum  ptin  .  .  .  Et  ptea 
ijdem  Thomas  A  Gilbtus  concesserunt  .  .  .  q3  vnu  mesuagiu  vnu  molendinu  due  carucate  tre  vigiuti 
A  quatuor  acre  prti  quindecim  acre  pasture  viginti  A  octo  acre  bosci  A  quatuor  librate  redditus  cum 


CLOPTON  OF  MELFORD. 


139 


ptin  in  $dcis  villis  .  .  .  que  Iuetta  que  fuit  v2  Walti  de  Clopton  tenuit  ad  tnii  vite  de  hereditate 
Pdci  Gilht  et  que  post  decessu  ipius  Iuettse  ad  j)dcos  Thomam  &  Gilbtrh  debuerunt  .  .  .  post 
decessum  ipius  Iuettse  integre  remaneant  fldco  Wilio  .  .  .  et  post  decessum  ipius  Willi  vnu  mesuagiii 
centum  A  sexaginta  acre  tre  quatuor  acre  pati  sex  acre  pasture  sex  acre  bosci  A  triginta  solidate 
redditus  in  pdca  villa  de  ffloketon  integre  remanebunt  Wal?o  fit  eiusdem  Willi  &  heredib^  de  corpore 

suo  .  .  .  et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Wal?us  obierit  sine  herede  de  corpore  suo  ...  tunc  ..  .  eadem 

ten  remanebunt  Join  ffri  eiusdem  Wal?i  &  heredib^  de  corpore  .  .  .  et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Jobes 
obierit  sine  herede  de  corpore  suo  pcreato  tunc  eadem  ten  remanebunt  Edmundo  fri  eiusdem  Johis  A 

heredibjj  de  corpore  suo.  Et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Edus  obierit  sine  hede  de  corpore  suo  .  .  .  tunc 

eadem  ten  remanebunt  rectis  heredibz  jldci  Wilii  imppm.  Et  vnu  mesuagm  centu  &  sexaginta  A 
decern  acre  tre  decern  acre  pti  octo  acre  pasture  decern  acre  bosci  it  nouem  solidate  redditus  cum 
ptin  in  f?dca  villa  de  Thrillowe  integre  remanebunt  ffdco  Join  &  heredib^  de  corpore  .  .  .  irnppfn. 
Et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Jolies  obierit  sine  herede  de  corpore  suo  .  .  .  tunc  post  decessum  ipius 
Joins  eadem  ten  integre  remanebunt  fidco  Wal?o  .  .  .  Et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Wal?us  obierit  sine 

herede  de  corpore  suo  pcreato  tunc  post  decessum  ipius  Walti  eadem  ten  integre  remanebunt  jidco 

Edmundo  .  .  .  Et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Edus  obierit  sine  herede  de  corpore  tunc  post  decessum  ipius 
Edi  eadem  ten  integre  remanebunt  rectis  heredibjj  pfdci  Wilii.  Et  duo  mesuagia  vnu  molendinu 

ducente  &  quadriginta  &  quindecim  acre  tre  quadraginta  &  quatuor  acre  pti  quadraginta  &  vna  acre 
pasture  quadraginta  A  quatuor  acre  bosci  A  vndecim  librate  &  duodecim  deuarata  redditus  cum  ptin 
in  ffdcis  villis  de  Wikhambrok  Denardeston  Stradesele  Stansfeli  Haukedon  &  Depedene  integre 
remanebunt  Marie  filie  Willi  Kokerell  chiualer  tenend  de  capit  .  .  .  Et  post  decessu  ipius  Marie 
eadem  ten  integre  remanebunt  Willo  filio  jJdci  Willi  &  heredib^  de  corpore  imppm.  Et  si  contingat 
qd  idem  Wills  fit  Wilii  obierit  sine  herede  de  corpore  tunc  eadem  ten  remanebunt  fldco  Johi  & 
heredib^  de  corpore.  Et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Jolies  obierit  sine  herede  de  corpore  tunc  eadem 
tenn  cum  ptin  remanebunt  fide  5  Wal?o  &  heredib$.  Et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Waltus  obierit 
sine  herede  de  corpore  suo  .  .  .  eadem  ten  remanebunt  ffdco  Edo  &  herediba.  Et  si  contingat  qd 
idem  Edus  obierit  sine  herede  de  corpore  suo  tunc  eade  ten  integre  remanebunt  rectis  heredib^  pdci 
Wilii  fit  Wal?i  imppih.  Et  p  hac  concessione  &  concordia  idem  Wills  filius  Wal?i  dedit  |ldcis 

Thome  &  Gilbto  ducentas  marcas  argenti.  Et  sup  hoc  veh  quidam  ...  ex  parte  pdcorf  Thome 
Bendyssh  &  Ahcie  &  Johis  Bedewelle  &  Elizabeth  et  die  qd  tain  jfdcus  Wills  fil  Walti  qrh  |fdca 
Maria  tarn  obierunt  &  similit  qd  fldcor^  Wilii  fit  Wilii  &  Johis  fris  Walti  mortuus  est  sine  herede 
de  corpore  pereat  &  eciam  qd  jldcus  Wal?us  fii  Willi  iam  obijt  et  qd  quidam  Johes  Pelham 
chiualer,  Hugo  ffrauneijs  Armi§,  Alex  Eustas,  Ricus  Leuerer  &  Wilis  Coggeshale  ffdca  mesuagm 
molendum  Atc.  in  Wikhambrok  Ac.  ...  in  pdeo  fine  content  modo  ingressi  sunt  &  ea  tenent  cont 
formam  finis  jldci  Et  pet  bre  vie  Suff  directum  ad  jfinouend  jffatos  Hugonem  Alexin  Ricfh  &  WiSm 
Coggesale  effendi  hie  ostens  si  quid  Ac.  quare  {idea  mesuagm  molendinu  Ac.  Ac.  in  fidcis  villis  de 
Wikhambrok  Ac.  .  .  .  que  ipi  tenent  in  forma  jldca  post  mortem  fldcorp  Wilii  fil  Walti  &  Marie, 
Willi  fii  Willi  Johis  fris  Wal?i  &  Wal?i  fii  Wilii  fifatis  Alieie  A  Elizabeth  filiab^  A  heredibjj  euisdem 
Walti  fii  Wilii  remanere  non  debeant  iuxta  formam  finis  fklci  si  Ac.  eo  qd  vt^q^  fldcorf  Willi  fii 
Willi  &  Johis  fris  Walt9i  obijt  sine  herede  de  corpore  suo  pcreato  ei  concedit  retorne  bile  hie  a  die 
Pasche  in  tres  septimanas  &c.  De  Banco  Roll,  Hill,  4.  H.  5,  m.  321. 

Sir  Simon  D’Ewes,  who  married  the  heiress  of  the  Cloptous  of  Kentwell,  made  elaborate 
collections  relating  to  their  history,  which  will  be  found  amongst  the  Harleian  Charters  and  MSS. 
in  the  British  Museum.  He  deals  much  with  the  same  family  in  his  “Autobiography,”  a 
Bowdlerised  edition  of  which  was  printed  in  two  volumes  in  1845. 

T- 


140 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


5Htll  nf  William  Clapton,  1612. 

October  25th  1612.  Mr  William  Clapton  Esquyre  did  in  our  hearing  will  &  bequeath  all  his 
moveable  goods  &  chattels  what  soever  vnto  his  sonne  William  Clapton  ;  &  being  demaunded  yf  his 
meaning  were  not  that  his  other  sonne  Mr  ffrancis  Clapton  &  Mr  Whitcroft  should  not  have  any 
of  them  he  answeared  that  he  would  leave  that  to  his  sonh  William  his  discretion ;  &  this  he 
iustifyed  to  be  his  will. 

P  me  dohanem  ffirmin  eleriem. 

Thomas  Neavell. 

ExtlG  14  Januarij  1612. 

Comiss.  London,  Essex  and  Herts.,  1612. 

Obviously  the  will  of  William  Clopton  of  Liston,  who  died  on  the  25th  of  October,  1612, 
leaving  William  Clopton,  his  son  and  heir,  Francis  Clopton,  his  second  son,  and  a  daughter,  Mary, 
married  to  George  Whetcroft  of  Eye  in  Suffolk. 


Will  of  (ffilliam  Clopton,  1640, 

This  is  the  last  will  and  testament  of  mee  William  Clopton  thelder  of  Groton  in  the  county 
-of  Suff  gent  made  and  published  this  first  day  of  November  1640  I  commend  my  soule  into  the 
hands  of  Allmighty  God  stedfastly  believeinge  throughe  the  onelie  meritts  and  passion  of  my  blessed 
saviour  Christ  Jesus  to  obtain  pardon  of  all  my  sinns.  I  giue  vnto  my  loving  wife  my  customary 
lands  in  Groton  holden  of  William  Hobart  Esquire  as  of  his  mannor  of  Lynsey,  of  John  Sampson 
Esquire  as  of  his  mannor  of  Lillesey  cum  Sampsons  Hall  in  Carsey,  and  of  Isaack  Appleton  Esquire 
vnto  the  full  tearme  of  eightene  yeares.  And  after  the  expiracoii  of  the  said  tearme  I  will  that 
all  said  customary  lands  shall  come  to  my  sonne  William  and  his  heires  for  ever  Ry  Indenture 
of  demise  bearinge  date  the  seaven  and  twentieth  of  October  last,  I  the  said  Wm  Clopton  and  the 
said  William  Clopton  my  sonn,  have  letten  vnto  John  Sampson  the  younger  gent  and  Robert 
Sampson  gent  all  those  my  mannors  of  Chastlynes  Chipley  and  Sandefords  and  all  other  my  freehold 
lands  in  the  county  of  Suff.  vnto  the  full  tearme  of  eighteene  yeares,  which  lease  was  made  in 
trust  for  the  raiseing  of  porcons  for  my  younger  sonnes  and  daughters.  My  meaneinge  is  that  said 
lessees  shall  assigne  vnto  my  said  wife  as  well  the  said  Indenture  of  demise  as  alsoe  the  said 
premisses,  and  that  my  wife  (the  yearelie  rent  of  fower  score  pownds  beinge  deducted)  shall  raise 
porcons  for  my  younger  children,  that  is  to  say  for  every  one  of  them  (except  my  youngest  sonne) 
twoe  hundred  pownds  a  piece  as  they  bee  in  senioiity  one  before  another.  And  whereas  I  am 
seized  of  one  coppiehold  tenement  lyeinge  in  Lynsey  holden  of  the  said  William  Hobart,  of  which 
mannor  the  custome  is  that  coppiehold  estates  doe  discend  to  the  youngest  sonne,  my  will  is  that 
my  executrix  shall  shall  pay  vnto  my  said  youngest  sonne  the  somme  of  eightscore  pownds  onely 
and  noe  more.  I  doe  heartily  desire  my  said  executrix  that  my  sonn  Walter  bee  contyuued  at  the 


CLOPTON  OF  MELFORD. 


141 


vniversity  of  Cambridge  vntill  one  yeare  after  hee  shall  heve  taken  the  degree  of  a  Master  of 
Arts,  And  I  doe  nominate  my  loving  wife  Alice  Clopton  to  bee  the  sole  executour.  Probatum 
vicesimo  Septimo  die  Novembris  1640  Juramento  Alicie  Clopton  relicte. 

P.C.C.  148  Coventry. 

It  was  Thomasine  Clopton,  the  sister  of  the  testator,  who  became  the  second  wife  of  John 
Winthrop  of  Groton,  afterwards  Governor  of  Massachusetts,  6  Dec.  1615.  Her  marriage  settlement 
is  given  at  page  22.  The  pathetic  story  of  her  death,  but  one  year  later,  as  penned  by  her  husband, 
will  be  found  in  Vol.  I,  pp.  79-89,  of  the  “  Life  and  Letters  of  John  Winthrop.” 


SStiil  at  |3okii  ffiiopton,  1730. 

I  Poley  Clopton  of  Bury  Sk  Edmonds,  Doctor  in  Physick,  resigning  my  soul  into  the  hands  of 
the  ffather  of  Mercys  do  publish  this  my  last  will.  Impris  I  give  and  devise  unto  James  Reynolds 
Esqr  Lord  Cheif  Baron  of  his  Majesty’s  Court  of  Exchequer,  Thomas  D’Gray,  Thomas  Barnardiston, 
Baptist  Lee  and  John  Moyle  Esquires,  John  Turnor  Esqr  the  present  Recorder  of  Bury,  my  brother  in 
law  Mr  Edward  Crispe,  Mr  William  Turnor  and  Mr  Henry  Turnor  his  son,  Mr  Walter  Raye,  Mr 
Samuel  Raye,  Mr  Edward  Isaack  Jackson  and  Mr  Joshua  Grigby  all  of  Bury  aforesaid  and  to  their 
heires  so  much  of  my  mannors  &c.  in  Suffolk  and  Essex  (other  than  my  seat  called  Lyston  Hall)  as 
they  shall  think  fit,  not  exceeding  the  yearly  value  of  three  hundred  pounds,  upon  trust  that  they 
shall  erect  a  convenient  house  in  Bury  for  the  reception  and  maintenance  of  twelve  poor  people, 
inhabitants  of  Bury,  viz*  six  men  and  six  women  of  the  age  of  sixty  yeares  and  upwards,  and  shall 
after  said  house  shall  be  built,  imploy  the  rents  in  the  maintenance  of  the  said  poore  people.  Also  I 
will  that  when  said  trustees  shall  be  reduced  to  five  that  those  surviving  shall  convey  the  premises 
to  eight  other  inhabitants  of  Bury  under  the  trust  hereinbefore  expressed  and  so  toties  quoties  for 
ever.  Item  I  give  to  my  cousin  Richard  Clopton  of  Coney  Weston  one  thousand  pounds  for  the 

better  support  of  himself  and  ffamily  :  to  my  cousin  Thomas  Clopton  the  sum  of  two  hundred 

pounds  and  to  my  cousin  Walter  Clopton  the  like  sum  :  to  my  kinswoman  Mrs  Elizabeth  Tyler 
the  like  sum  and  to  my  kinswoman  Mrs  Elizabeth  Murrills  two  hundred  pounds.  Item  to  the 

Master  and  ffellows  of  Queen’s  Colledge  in  Cambridge  twenty  pounds.  To  my  relation  Mr  James 

Sturgeon  a  guinea  to  buy  a  ring  in  remembrance  of  me.  To  the  poor  of  James  in  Bury  ffifty 
pounds  and  of  S1  Mary’s  parish  ffifty  pounds  to  be  distributed  amongst  such  of  the  poor  who  do 
not  take  Collection.  To  the  poor  of  Liston  in  Essex  ten  pounds.  I  desire  my  body  may  be 
interred  in  Lyston  chancell  and  a  decent  monument  affixed  in  the  wall  near  it  with  an  inscription 
to  be  written  by  the  Reverend  Mr  Needeu  of  Rougham  to  whom  I  -  give  two  guineas  for  his 
trouble — the  monument  not  to  be  expensive  nor  under  one  hundred  pounds  charge.  As  to  Lyston 

Hall  and  all  other  my  reall  estate  I  give  to  my  dear'y  beloved  sister  Elizabeth  the  wife  of 

Mr  Edward  Crispe  and  to  her  heires  for  ever.  All  the  residue  to  my  said  sister  to  be  at  her  own 

disposal.  I  appoint  (her)  sole  executrix  this  SO1,11  October  1730.  Probatum  23  Nov.  1730. 

P.C.C.  301  Auber. 


142 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Clopton  of  fUtrftbambroofc. 


.  .  .  Clopton  of  .  .  .  in  the  county  of  Suffolk.  So  described  in  the  Visitation  of=j=.  .  .  dau.  of  .  .  .  Grey  of  Buckingham  Castle  in  the 
1561.  Harl.  MS.  1103.  William  Clopton.  Ilarl.  MS.  1560.  Of  Clopton  Hall  in  I  county  of  Norfolk.  Harl,  MS.  1103.  Anne,  dau.  of 
Wickliambrook.  Blois.  Visit,  temp.  H.  I.  D’ Ewes,  Harl,  MS.  639.  \  John  Grey.  Harl.  MS.  1560. 

i - - — - 1 - 1 

.  .  .  Clopton,  his  son  heir.  Harl.  MS.  1103.  Sir  Walter  Clopton.=f=.  .  .  dau.  of  .  .  .  Chewyt.  Harl.  MS.  A  daughter  ux.  .  .  .  Ger- 
Harl.  MS.  1560.  Visit,  temp.  Stephani  et  H.  2.  D'  Ewes.  |  1103.  Of  Cheduyt  Harl.  MS.  1560.  bridge.  Harl.  MS.  1560. 


.  .  .  Clopton,  his  son  and  heir.  Harl.  MS.  1103.  Sir  William  Clopton.  Harl.  MS.- 
1560.  Visit,  H.  2  et  R.  1.  D’Ewes. 


-.  .  .  dau.  of  .  .  .  Cockerell,  Harl.  MS.  1103.  Of 
Sir  William  Cockerell.  Harl.  MS.  1560. 


Richard  Clopton,  fil.  Willi. 
32  H.  3.  L)'  Ewes. 


.  .  .  Clopton,  his  son  and  heir,  married  .  .  .  Trussed.  Harl.  MS.  1103.  Sir  William=pFrances,  dau.  of  Sir  William 
Clopton.  Harl.  MS.  1560.  Walter  de  Cloptune  fil  Willi.,  temp.  R.  1  et  H.  5.  D'Ewes.  j  Trussel.  Harl.  MS.  1560. 

=.  .  .  dau.  of  .  ,  .  Pygott.  Harl.  MSS.  1103  and  1560.  The  old  inscrip¬ 
tion  on  the  parapet  of  Melford  Church  describes  the  dau.  of  Sir  John 


Sir  William  Clopton.  Harl.  MSS.  1103  and  1560.  Described1 
in  various  deeds,  Harl.  MS.  380,  dated  22  E.  1.,  as  father  of 
Walter  Clopton. 

Clopton 


Peecot  as  wife  of  Walter  Clopton,  whom  see  below. 


Alice,  first  wife,  dau.  andq=  Walter 


of  Wickham— 


coll,  of  Warin  Fitz  Hugh. 
Blois.  Of  Win.  FitzHugh, 
son  of  Hugh  de  Warren. 
D'  Ewes,  Harl.  MS.  380. 
She  was  buried  in  Chip- 
ley  Priory. 


brook,  22  E.  1,  when  he  bought 
lands  in  Chipley,  &c.  See  deeds, 
Harl.  MS.  3S0.  Dead  11  E.  3, 
I  vetta  being  then  his  widow. 
Died  20,  E.  2.  D’Ewes,  Harl. 
MS.  10. 


Ivetta,  2d  wife  ;  a  widow, 
11  E,  3,  Harl.  Charter,  51 
A.  4S ;  dau.  and  heir  of 
Weyland.  Deicer,  Harl. 
MS.  639. 

JohnClopton,  her  son,  11  E.  3. 


Clement,  son  of 
William  Clopton, 
sold  lands  in  Cow¬ 
ling  to  John  Shar- 
delow,  16  E.  2, 
HaH.  Charter,  43, 
C.  49. 


- 1 — i  i — i 

2.  Adam,  a  priest. 


Blois. 


William,  s.p.  Blois. 
5.  Hugo.  Bins. 
Robert.  Blois. 


Mary,  dau.=Sir  William  Clopton - 


of  Sir 
William 
Cockerell, 
2d  wife  ; 
mar.  set¬ 
tlement  in 
Bine,  31  E. 
3,  1348. 
Ob.  s  p. 


of  Wickliambrook, 21 
E.  3.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  22  Jan.  1376, 
proved  14  Jan.  1377. 
Lord  of  Toppesfield 
Manor  in  Hadleigh, 
co.  Suff.  and  Newen- 
ham  Manor  in  Ash- 
don.  To  be  buried 
in  Babwell  Friary. 


Amitia, 

filia 

Thoinse 
de  Grey. 
1/  Ewes. 
H  art. 

MS.  639. 
1st  wife. 


A  dau.  mar.  to 
.  .  .  Erpingham. 

A  dau.  mar.  to 
.  .  .  Walkote. 

A  dau.  mar  to 
.  .  .  Cavendish. 
Harl.  MS.  1560. 
But  see  below. 


1  st  wife, 
buried  in 
Chipley 
Priory. 


.—Sir  Thomas  Clopton^Ivatherine,  2d  wife,=rSirWilliamTend- 


of  Kentwell  in  Long 
Melford,  described 

as  son  of  Walter.  _ 

Harl.  Chart.  48.  D.  9.  1  Cur. 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 

8  Mar.  1383,  proved 
120ct.following.  To 
be  bur.  by  mother 
and  1st  wife  in  Chip- 
ley  Priory. 


l - 

Sir  William 
Clopton, 21  E.3, 
named  1376  in 
his  father’ swill; 
dead  4  H.  5  ; 
had  Hawstead 
Manor,  8  H.  4. 
Cullum  Char¬ 
ters. 


Sir  W alter  Clop-=f=Elizabeth, 


ton,  2d  son,  21  E. 
3, to  whom  his  fa¬ 
ther  left  his  ma¬ 
nor  of  Toppesfield 
Hall.  Made  Will, 
Lambeth  Regis¬ 
ters  Arundell  II, 
5  May  1413. 


1 


dau.  probably 
of  Sir  John 
Peccott  ; 
named  on  an¬ 
cient  Melford 
inscription  as 
wife  of  Wal¬ 
ter  Clopton. 


John  Clop¬ 
ton,  3d  son, 
21  E.  3,  dead 
sans  issue.  4 
H.  5,  not 
named  1376 
in  his  father’s 
will. 


Edmund=j=Blanche  Fitz- 


Clopton,2I  E. 
3,  to  whom 
his  father  de¬ 
vised  his  Ma¬ 
nor  of  Neweu- 
ham  Hall  in 
Ashdon,  co. 
Essex,  1376. 


Eustace,  de¬ 
scribed  as  late 
the  wife  of 
Edm. Clopton, 
20  May  7  H. 
4.  Bari. 
Charter,  57 
H.  7. 


Alice  Clopton,  da.  and  coheir,  wife  of  Tho-  Elizabeth, 
mas  Bendish  of  Steeple  Rumpsteed,  co.  da.  and  co- 
Essex,  4  H.  5.  John  Bendish  claimed  heir,  wife 
lands  there  as  their  son  and  heir.  27  H.  6.  of  John 
De  Banco  Roll.  See  Bendish  pedigree,  Badwell,  4 
Harl.  MS.  6065.  H.  6. 


William  Clopton.  son  and  heir,  passed  his 
Manor  of  Newenham  Hall  in  Ashdon  to 
Sir  John  Howard,  Sir  Walter  Clopton, 
William,  son  of  Thomas  Clopton,  &c.,  13 
H.  4.  Harl.  Charter,  4S,  D.  5,  and  48, 
D  6,  Mus.  Brit.  H  e  died  s  p. 


dau.  and  heir  of  Wm. 
Mvlde  of  Clare,  co. 
Suff.  Made  Will, 
Ep.  Norw.,  24 
Feb.  1403,  leaving 
Kentwell  Hall  and 
Lutons  to  Wm.  Clop¬ 
ton.  her  son.  To  be 
buried  in  Stoke  Nay- 
land  Church. 


ring,  2d  husband, 
survived  Kather¬ 
ine,  his  wife;  was 
bur.  in  the  Tend  - 
ring  Chapel  in 
Stoke  Nayland 
Church.  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


Alice  Tendring,  only  dau.  and  heir  ; 
mar.  Sir  John  Howard.  She  made 
Will  as  Alice  Howard,  P.C.C.  6  Luf- 
fenham,  13  Oct.  1426,  proved  25  Oct. 
following,  devising  her  Manors  of 
Buxhall  and  Brettenham,  co.  Suff., 
to  Robert  Howard,  her  son.  and  her 
Manor  of  Garboldisham,  Norfolk,  to 
Henry  Howard,  her  son  ;  desires  to 
be  buried  by  her  father  in  Stoke 
Nayland  Church. 


.  .  .  Clopton,  son  and  heir,  Ilarl.  MS.  1103.  William  Clopton.  Harl.  MS.  1560.  Not  recognised  by  D’Ewes=j-Margery.  Harl  Charter,  Mus. 
and  perhaps  identical  with  the  father  of  John  Clopton  below.  Wm.,  son  of  Thomas  Clopton,  is  so  described  |  Brit.,  54  A.  2.  Daughter  of  .  .  . 
in  deeds,  8  H.  4,  13  H.  4,  and  9  H.  5  (1407-1422).  Harl.  Charters,  54  A.  22,  48  D.  6,  and  48  D.  15.  I  Eustace.  Harl.  MS.  1103. 

.1 - - — - 1 

Margery,  dau.  of  Sir  Roger  Drury=j=William  Clopton  of  Kentwell,  described  by  D’Ewes  as  Esquire=f=.  .  .  dau.  and  heir  of  Elias  Francis 


of  Rougham,  co.  Suff.,  1st  wife. 
She  died  19  June  1420.  D’Ewes. 
Harl.  MS.  3S0.  Named  in  M.I.  in 
Melford  Church. 


i 


only.  Sir  William  Clopton  of  Kentwell.  Harl.  MS.  1103. 
Died  1446.  Long  M.I.  on  tomb  in  Melford  Church,  given 
in  the  Davy  MSS.  Identical,  perhaps,  with  the  foregoing. 
Made  a  Will,  Harl.  Charter,  58  G.  28. 


of  Norfolk.  Harl.  MS.  1103.  “Mar¬ 
gery  Francis”  in  the  M.I.  in  Melford 
Church.  She  died  12  June  1424. 
D’Ewes.  Harl.  MS.  3S4,  )o.  135. 


A  daughter,  doubtless  Alice  Clopton, 
mar.  to  J  olm  Harleston  She  was  bur. 
in  the  CloptonAisle  in  MelfordChurch 
Weever.  =F 


Catherine,  ux. 
John  Deuston. 
Horl.MS.1560. 
Living  1453. 


A  daughter,  ux.  .  .  .  Cavendish. 
A  quo  Cavendish  of  Cavendish, 
co.  Suff.,  and  Chatsworth,  co. 
Derby.  Harl.  MS.  1560. 


John  Harleston  of  ShimpTng,  co.  Suff  ,  Esq  ;  Will,  P.C.C.  Stokton,  fo.  206b,  31  May, 
36  H  6.,  proved  25  Oct  1453  ;  names  John  Clopton  and  John  Denston,  his  uncles.  He 
mar.  Margaret,  da.  of  Wm.  Berdewell,  Esq.  She  made  Will  as  Margaret  Harleston,  w°, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  10  March  37  H.  6.  proved  6  Nov.  1459,  naming  John  Clopton,  her  uncle, 
Elizabeth  Harleston  als.  Berdewell,  her  mother,  and  John  Harleston,  her  sou  and  heir. 


John  Clopton  of  Kentwell, 
Esq.  Will, P.C.C  17  Horne. 

4  Nov.  1494,  proved  16 
Nov.  1497;  names  Alice, 
his  sister,  wife  of  John  Har¬ 
leston.  Inq.  p,m.  13  H.  6. 
M.I,  in  the  Clopton  chapel  | 


Alice,  da.  of  Robert 
Darcy  of  Maldon  in  Es¬ 
sex.  Harl.  Ms.  1103. 
Sister  to  Sir  Robert 
Darcy,  who  names  John 
Clopton,  his  brother,  in 
his  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 


at  Melford,  which  he  built  j  Lond.,  1469.  Bur, 
in  part.  Weever.  /^Melford  Church. 

Clopton  of  Kentwell. 


m 


CLOPTON  OF  MELFORD. 


143 


Clopton  of  HenttoeU. 


John  Clopton  of  Kentwell  Hall  in  Long  Melford  ;  grandson  or  great  grandson^Alice,  da.  of  Robert  Darcy  of  Maldon,  co.  Essex,  Harl.  MS. 
of  Katherine  Mylde,  the  heiress  of  that  Manor.  Will,  P.C.C  17  Horne,  4  Nov.  I  1103,  sister  to  Sir  Robert  Darcy,  who  names  John  Clopton, 
1494,  proved  16  Nov.  same  year.  Inq.  p.m.  13  H.  6.  M.I,  in  Melford  Ch.  |  his  brother,  in  his  Will,  Consistory  Court  of  London  1449. 

_ _ 1 _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _ 1 _ 

, 


Joan,  1st  wife,=pSir  William  Clop-=jVThomasine,  3dwife — Katherine, 


dau  of  William 
Marrow,  Aider- 
man  of  London ; 
buried  in  Mel¬ 
ford  Church,  but 
M.I.  and  brass 
are  gone. 


ton  of  Kentwell, 
son  and  heir  ;  W  ill 
unproved, 'given  by 
Dr.  Howard,  dated 
14  Oct.  22  H.  8. 

He  died  20  Feb. 

1530,  ret.  50. 

Clopton  of  Geoton. 


sister  and  coheir  to 
Edward  Knevett 
of  Stanwey.  co.  Es¬ 
sex.  Margaret,  her 
other  sister,  mar. 
John  Roy  don. 


2d  wife, 
buried  in 
Melford 
Ch. ;  named 
in  her  hus¬ 
band’s  will. 


Sir  Edmund  Edward  Clopton.  3d  son  ;  of 
Clopton,  2d  Glemsford.  co.  Suff.  ;  Will, 
son,  “Knight  P.C.C. 36 Bennett,4 May  1504, 
of  the  proved  1510.  Elizabeth  Clop- 

Rhodes.”  ton,  hisdau.  and  sole  heir  mar. 
Hurl.  MS.  Nicholas  Wood  of  Fulborn, 
1560,  &c.  co.  Camb.  See  Wood  ped. 

in  Cambridgeshire  Visitation, 
1619,  Harl.  MS.  1043. 


John  Clopton  of=j=Elizabeth,  da.  and  li.=Robert  Weth- 
Kentwell,  Esq.,  of  John  Roydon  of  ersbey,  Gent., 


son  and  heir ; 
Will,  Harl. 
Charier,  43,  G. 


Essex,  by  Margaret, 
sister  and  coh.  of 
Edw.  Knevett  above- 


41,  5  Oct.  1541,  I  named  ;  made  Will, 


Arch-  Sudb.,as  Eliza¬ 
beth  Wythersbey  of 
Sudbury,!  Dec.  1563. 


proved  5  Nov. 
same  year.  Inq. 
p  m.  34  H.  8. 

I - 1 - 

George  Clopton,  4th  son,  of  Sud¬ 
bury,  Gent.  ;  Will,  P.C.C.  31 
Morrison  24  Sept.  1 565.  He  mar. 
1.  Alice,  da  and  coh.  of  Sir  Ste- 
■  phen  Peacock,  Lord  Mayor  of 
London  ;  2,  Eleanor  Deve,  by 
whom  a  son,  Francis  Clopton  the 
younger  ;  and  3,  Martha  .  .  . 
By  the  first  wife  he  had  issue: — - 


2d  husband 
Will,  P.C.C.  6 
Mellershe,  17 
Sept.  1559, 
proved!3  Jan. 
following. 


William  Clop¬ 
ton,  2d  son,  of 
Liston,  co.Essex, 
Esq,;  mar. Eliza¬ 
beth,  sister  and 
coh.ofThos.Saye 
of  Liston.  Heob. 
1537.  See  Clop¬ 
ton  of  Liston. 


Robert 
Clopton, 
a  priest, 
3d  son. 
Inq.  p. 
m.  21 H. 
8. 


~i  r 

Elizabeth,  ux. 
Sir  Geoffrey 
Gates  of  Es- 


A  daughter 
married  to 
.  .  .  Austin. 


Anne.ux.  Rich¬ 
ard  Poley  of 
Boxsted,  co. 
Suff., Esq.  Her 
Will,  P.C.C.  is 
dated  14  May 
1549  ;  prob.20 
Jan.  1550. 


1.  George  Clop¬ 
ton  of  Sudbury 
Harl.  MS. 1560. 
Not  24  in  1565. 


2.  Wm. Clopton 
of  York.  Harl. 
MS.  1560.  To 
go  to  Cam¬ 
bridge,  1565. 


Anthony  Clop¬ 
ton,  3d  son, 
dead  in  1563  ; 
mar.  Eleanor 
Hubbard.  Reyce 
Had  son  John 
Clopton  of  Lon¬ 
don,  devisee  of 
Eliz.  Wethers- 
bey. 

T 


Dorothy, 
mar.  1,  to 
...  White  ; 
2,  to  Vava¬ 
sor  ;  3,  to 
...  Apple- 
yard.  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


Magaret,= 
dau.  of  Sir 
Thomas 
Jermyn  of 
Rushbrook 
in  co.  Suf¬ 
folk,  first 
wife. 


=William=j=Mary,  dau.  of 


3.  Edmund 
Clopton,  and 
5.  Thomas 
Clopton.  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


4.  Francis 
Clopton  the 
elder,  1565. 
To  be  a  pren- 
tice'in  London. 


— i — l 

Mary& 

Eliza¬ 

beth, 

living 

1563. 


Thomas  Clop¬ 
ton,  s.  and  h., 
1553.  Settle¬ 
ment  by  Fine 
1  &  2,  P.  &  M. 
on  him  and 
Dorothy,  his 
wife  ;  both 
dead  s.p.  vita 
patris  ejus. 


William  Clop-= 
ton,  3d  son, 
of  Kentwell, 
Esq.;  Will,  11 
Dec.  1588, 
P.C.C-  ;  ob. 
s.p.  Heir,  20 
Eliz.,  to  Fran¬ 
cis  Clopton, 
his  brother. 


;AnneElmes 
Described 
by  Thos. 
Clopton, 
1597,  as 
Dame  Anne 
Norris,  late 
wife  of  my 
brother 
W  m. 


Elizabeth, 
wife  of  John 
Smith  of  Gar- 
boldsham,  co. 
Norfi.,  and  of 
Hundon,  co. 
Suff.,  1563. 
Harl.  MS. 
1552  &  1820. 


Margaret, 
wife  of  Ed¬ 
ward  Stote- 
ville,  final 
administra¬ 
trix  of  her 
brothers 
Francis  and 
Thos.  Clop¬ 
ton,  1612. 


Clopton 
of  Kent- 
well,  Esq. 
son  and 
heir,  ret. 
32  in 
1541. 
Admon. 
P.C.C.  17 
Sept. 
1562. 

Inq.  p  m. 
4  Eliz. 


- 1 

Anne, 
mar.  to 
Hamou 
Claxton 
of  Clied- 
istou,  co 
Suff.. 

Esq  ,  and 
had  issue. 
Blois. 


George  Per- 
ient,  2d  wife. 
She  renupt. 
George  Bar- 
nardiston  of 
Nowell,  co. 
Bedford,  Esq. 


Grisell,  mar. 
Thomas  West 
of  Cornard, 
Gent. 

Elizabeth, 
mar.  to  .  .  . 
Coleman. 


Anne,  ux.  Dorothy > 
Thos.  Hook-  wife  of 
wood,  Esq  .  Thomas 
who  d.  12  Curson. 
H.  8.  Altar 
tomb  in 
Stanning- 
fieldChurch 

- I — I 

Dorothy  Clopton  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  5  Bennett, 
proved  26  Sept.  1508, 
naming  her  sistersPoley 
and  Gates,  a  sister 
Anne  Darcy,  a  sister 
Katherine,  &c. 

Katherine. 

- 1 

John  Clopton  of 
Monks  Elleigh,  2d 
son ;  mar.  Margaret, 
da.  of  Robt.  Riece, 
Esq.,  relict  of  An¬ 
drew  Hobart  and 
aunt  to  Ryece  the 
Antiquary  ;  issue  by 
both  husbands. 


FrancisCloptonl563,  Riece 
said  to  have  had  four  Clopton, 
sons,  Francis,  Wm.,  younger 
George  and  Walter,  son, 1563. 
Blais. 


Margaret,  Kath¬ 
erine  and  Anne, 
devisees  of  Eliza¬ 
beth  Wythers¬ 
bey,  1563. 


- - 

George  Clopton,  eldest 
son,  by  second  mar¬ 
riage  ;  of  Kentwell, 
gent  ;  ob.  s.p  ;  bur. 
at  Melford  17  July 
1587.  Admon.,  P.C.C. 
23  Aug.  to  Thos  Clop¬ 
ton  the  younger,  his 
brother. 


Bridget,  youngest 
dau.,  mar.  John 
Stafford,  Esq.,  2d 
son,  and  ultimately 
heir  of  Sir  Hum¬ 
phrey  Stafford  of 
Blatherwick,  North¬ 
ampton.  Howard. 


John  Smith 
Halesworth,  co. 
Suff.,  gent.  Crane 
ped.,  Suff.  Visitn. 
1561,  and  Smith 
ped.  Suff.  Visitn. 
1612.  1st  husband. 


of=j=Agnes,  dau.  of  Ro-= 
bert  Crane  of  Chil¬ 
ton,  Esq.  ;  who  in 
Will  7  Oct.  32  Eliz. 
describes  her  as 
DameAgnes  Clere ; 
yet  living  1619. 


-Francis  Clopton  of= 
Kentwell,  Esq.,  2d 
son,  1553  ;  surviv¬ 
ing  son  and  heir, 
1562,  and  then  ret. 
23  ; .  died  5  April 
20  Eliz  ,  s.p. 


-Sir  Cliristopher=j=SirEdward Clere  Thomas  Clopton  of =j=  Mary,  dau.  of  Sir 


Heydon,  3d  husbd. 
named  1 597  by 
Thos  Clopton,  as 
having  mar.  Agnes 
his  brother  Fran- 
cisClopton’s  widow 


4  th  and  last  hus¬ 
band.  He&Dame 
Agnes,  his  wife, 
are  named  1595 
in  the  will  of 
Thos.  Clopton. 


John  Smith.  Harl.  MS.  1484 •  Anne  Heydon.  Harl.  MS.  14S4-  Robert  Clere.  Harl.  MS.  1484. 


Kentwell,  Esq., 
youngest  son  and 
at  length  heir  of  all 
his  brothers.  Will, 
P.C.C.  39  Lewyn. 
10  Jan.  1597.  Inq. 
p.  m.  40  Eliz.  1598. 
M.I.  at  Melford. 


William  Waldegrave. 
of  Smallbridge,  co. 
Suff.,  and  sister  of 
Sir  Wm.  Waldegrave 
theyounger.  Admon. 
P.C.C.  Feb.  1599  to 
Sir  Wm.  Waldegrave, 
her  father. 


Auue,  1st  wife, =j=Sir  William  Clop-= 
dau.  of  Sir  Tho-  ton,  Kt.,  s.  &  h  , 
mas  Barnardis-  ret.  5,27Feb.l597; 
ton  of  Clare, mar.  diedatHorsheath, 
at  Clare  1  Jan.  Cambr.,  4  March 
1610  ;  died  4  1618  ;  Inq.  p.  m. 

Feb.  1615.  M.I.  17  Jas,  ;  bur.  in 
in  Melford  Ch. 


= Elizabeth,  2d  wife,  dau. 
of  Sir  Giles  Allington,  & 
widow  of  Sir  Henry  Pal- 
lavicini  ;  mar.  at  Hors- 
lieath3  0ct.  15  Jas.  .Sir 
JohnTracy,Kt.,3d  husb. 
Her  two  sons  Edward  & 


Martha,  2d=Walter  Clop- 
wife.  dau.  ton,  Esq.,  2d 


Melford  Church.^ Wm.  Clopton,  ob.  inf. 


of  Isaac 
Barrow  of 
Spinney 
Abbey,  co. 
Cambridge. 


son,  1597  ; 
bapt.  at  Mel¬ 
ford,  1596  ; 
died  at  Ford- 
ham,  Camb., 
1627. 


:Anne,  da.  of 
Sir  Roger 
Thornton, 
Kt.,  of  Snail- 
well,  Camb. 
Harleian  Roll, 
C.  15. 


Elizabeth, 
named  1597  in 
her  father’s 
will  ;  bapt.  at 
Melford  1591  ; 
mar.  there  1615, 
to  Mr.  Jerome 
Bavliff. 


Anne  oiopton,  sole  dau.  and  heiress,  bapt.  at  Clare,  2  March  1612  ;  mar.  Sir  Simon  D’Ewes  1.  William  RogerClop-  Daniel 
of  Stowlangtuft,  Kart.  Cecilia  D’ Ewes,  their  only  child,  wife  of  Sir  Thos.  Darcy  of  St.  Clopton,  ton. son  and  Clopton, 
Cleres  Hall,  co.  Essex,  Part.,  was  buried  in  the  Clopton  Aisle  at  Melfoid  1  June  1661.  died  young,  heir.  1637.  3d  son. 
M.I.  Anne  Darcy,  her  only  child,  died  in  infancy.  1)' Rices. 


Mary, 
named 
1597  in 
her  fath¬ 
er’s  will  ; 
bapt.  at 
M  elford, 
1594. 


- 1 

Benjamin 
Clopton, 
living  163S 


144 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Clopton  of  (Proton. 


Katherine,  dau,=Joane,  dau.  of=j=Sir  William  Clopton  of  Kent-=j=Thomasine,  dau.  of  Sir  Thos.  Knevett  of  Stauway  in  Essex  ;  sister  and 


of  .  .  ,  Hopton,  Sir  William  well  in  Long  Melford,Kt.  ;  Lord 
widow  of  .  .  .  Marrow  of  of  the  Manor  of  Castelyns  in 
Darell  of  Essex,  Stepney  in  co.  Groton  jure  uxoris.  Made  Will 
2d  wife.  Ob.  Middlesex,  Al-  14  Oct.  1530  ;  buried  in  the 
s.p.  Howard.  derman  of  Clopton  Chapel  in  Melford 
Buried  in  Mel-  London,  1st  Church  by  Joane  &  Dame  Kath- 
ford  Church.  wife.  ferine,  his  first  &  second  wives. 


ultimately  coheir  of  Edward  Knevett,  Esq.  ;  aunt  and  coheir  (with  her 
two  neiees,  Elizabeth,  wife  of  John  Clopton  of  Kentwell,  and  Katherine 
Roydon)  to  Elizabeth  Raiusford,  wife  of  John  Rainsford,  Esq.,  her  brother’s 
daughter  ;  as  appears  by  the  Inq.  p.  m.  of  the  said  Elizabeth  Rainsford, 
24  H.  7,  from  whom  she  inherited  the  Manor  of  Castelyns  in  Groton. 
She  was  then  aged  40  years  and  upwards.  See  also  Knevett  pedigree 
Hart.  MS.  3S0,  fo.  128.  ’ 


Francis  Clopton  of  Melford,  = 
co.  Suffolk,  Gent.,  son  and 
heir;  Will,  P.C.C.  33  Chaney 
2  Feb.  1558,  proved  7  July 
1559  by  Bridget,  his  relict  ; 
Manor  of  Castelyns  to  Wm. 
Clopton,  his  nephew.  Ob. 
s.p. 


=Bridget,  dau.  of  Robert=Jolm  Warberton 
Crane  of  Chilton,  Esq.  of  Melford,  Esq., 
She  mar.  2d  John  War¬ 
berton,  gent.  ;  3d  .  .  . 

Fassett  :  and  4th  .  .  . 

J ermy  of  Tomlinson.  N o 
issue  by  any  of  these 
marriages. 


2d  husband  ;  Ad- 
mon.  P  C-C.  June 
1581,  to  Bridget 
Fossett  als.  War¬ 
berton,  his  relict. 


John 
Clopton, 
third  son, 
Harl.  MS 
1560. 


Margery  ,=j=Richard  Clopton  ^Margaret.  dau. 


dau-  of 
William 
Plater  of 
Sotterley, 
co.  Suff.,  2d 
wife. 


Frances,  Set  uau.,  mar.  to 
her  first  husband  Martin 
Bowes,  2d  son  of  Sir  Mar¬ 
tin  Bowes,  Alderman  of 
I.ondon ;  and  to  her  2d 
husband,  Henry  Hutton, 
Archbishop  of  York.  Cam¬ 
den.  She  was  living  in 
1584. 


Elizabeth,  4th  dau., 
mar.  Nicholas  Hobart 
of  Lindsey  in  Suffolk, 
gent.,  who  made  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  14  Feb. 
1606  ;  prob  26  Feb., 
and  was  buried  in  the 
chancel  there. 


Julian,  6th  dau., 
mar.  Thomas  Wye 
of  Lyppiott  in 
Gloucestershire, and 
to  her  2d  husband 
John  Throgmorton 
of  Oxfordshire. 

She  was  living  in 
1584. 


- ! - 

Mary,  youngest 
da.,  mar.  to  Ed- 
wardKing  of  Lin¬ 
colnshire,  Clerk 
to  Sir  W  m.  Cor- 
dall.  Executrix 
to  Dame  Mary 
Cordell,  her  sis¬ 
ter. 


of  Melford,  to 
whom  did  descend 
the  lands  of  the 
Knevetts  ;  named 
1530  as  one  of  his 
father’s  executors. 


and  coheir  of 
Sir  Richard 
Bozun  of  Bara- 
by  in  Lincoln¬ 
shire,  Ivnt.,  1st 
wife. 


Emme,  5th 
dau.,  living 
1584,  mar. 
GeorgeSmith 
of  Cavendish, 
co.  Suffolk, 
Esq. 


1 - 1 

Mary,  eldest  dau. 
mar.  Sir  Richd. 
Cordell  Master 
of  the  Rolls.  Her 
Will,  P.C.C.  2 
Feb.  1584,  was 
proved  13  Oct. 
1585. 


William  Clopton  of  Groton,  co.  Suff.,  Esq.,  son-pMargery,  dau.  of  Ed- 


and  heir  ;  Will,  P.C.C.  83  Cope,  5  Sept.  1615  ; 
prob.  28  Nov.  1615  ;  Inq.  p.  m.  15  Jas.  His 
death,  9  Aug.  1616,  is  noted  in  Adam  Winthrop’s 
Diary.  Lord  of  the  Manors  of  Castelyn,  co. 
Suffolk,  Ramsden  a.nd  Belhouse,  co.  Essex,  &c. 


1.  Anne,  mar.  to 
John  Maidstone  of 
Boxted.  co.  Suff.  ; 
bapt.  at  Groton, 
1580.  Had  issue  as 
in  the  Essex  Visita¬ 
tion,  1634. 


2.  Bridget,  mar.  to  John 
Sampson  of  Sampson’s 
Hall  in  Kersey,  Esq.,  27 
June  1598  ;  when  he 
made  Will,  Arch.  Subd., 
21  May  1647  ;  bapt. 
at  Groton,  1581. 


ward  Waldegrave  of 
Lawford,  co.  Essex, 
Esq.  ;  aunt  of  Je- 
mirnah,  Lady  Crewe 
of  Stene. 


Thomasine,  2d  dau.,  mar.  Thomas  Aldham, 
of  Sapiston,  co.  Suffolk,  gent.,  who  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  17  Tirwhite,  30  July  1581,  naming 
Wm.  Clopton,  his  brother-in-law  ;  prob.  12 
May  1582.  Her  2d  husbd.  was  Thos.  Kighley 
of  Greys,  co.  Essex,  Esq.  Blois. 


Richard,  devisee 
of  his  uncle 
Francis  Clopton, 
1539,  &  Edward 
died  sans  issue. 
Camden. 


3.  Thomasine,  bapt.  at  Groton, 
1582  ;  married  there  6  Dec.  1615 
to  John  Wiutlirop,  Esq.,  after¬ 
wards  Governor  of  Massachu¬ 
setts  ;  bur.  in  Groton  chancel 
with  her  infant  child  1 1  Dec. 
1616.  See Wintheop  of  Groton. 


4. Mary, bap. 
at  Groton, 
1588  ;  mar. 
George 
Jenuey  of 
London, 
gent.  Blois. 


5.  Margery, bapt.atGro- 
ton,1590;  mar.  there  22 
April  1617  ThomasDog- 
get  of  Boxford,  gent.,  s. 
and  h.  of  Wm.  Dogget, 
whose  Inq.  p.  m.  is 
dated  12  Jas. 


6.  Elizabeth, 
bapt.  at  Groton  9 
July  1601;  mar. 
George  Cocke  of 
Ipswich,  Mer¬ 
chant.  Blais. 


William  Clopton  of 
ton,  Esq.,  s.  and  li  ,  aged 
31  in  1616  ;  bapt.  there 
1584  ;  buried  there  7  Nov. 
1648  ;  Inq.  p.  m.  17  Chas. 
Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Cas¬ 
telyns.  Will,  P.C.C.  148 
Coventry,  1  Nov.  1640  ; 
prob.  27  Nov.  1640  to 
relict. 


Gro-=y Alice,  sister  of  Sir  Henry  Doy- 
lye  of  Shottisham,  co  Norff , 
Knt ,  married  3  Aug.  13  .las. 
1615.  at  W  hatfield,  Suffolk; 
sister  of  Wm.  Doylye  of  Had- 
leigli,  co.  Suff.,  gent  ,  who  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  133  Goare,  lo37  ; 
sister  of  Edmund  Doylye  of  Had- 
leigh,  Esq. 


n - 

Richard  Clopton, 
at  Groton,  1634. 

Thomas  Clopton, 
at  Groton,  1636. 


Walter  Clop-: 
ton,  2d  son, 
of  Cogges- 
hall,  co.  Es¬ 
sex,  24  Dec. 
1622,  when 
he  made  will. 
1st  husband. 


-  M  a r g a  r  e  t = Robert  Crane 
Maidstone,  of  Coggeshall, 
dau.  of  Ro-  Grocer  ;  mar, 
bert  Maid-  settlement  16 
stone  of  Aug.  6  Car. 
Boxted,  co.  1631  ;  living 
Essex, gent.  May  1645.  2d 
husband. 


Walde¬ 
grave 
Clopton. 
3d  son  ; 
bapt.  at 
Groton, 

18  May 
1587. 


-Eliza¬ 

beth 

Win- 

coil. 

Blois. 


- 1 

Thomas 
Clopton, 
4th  son. 
Camden' 
Bapt.  at 
Groton, 
18  Sept. 
1593. 


Willliam,  1622.  Walter,  1645.  Margaret,  1645.  Margary  Clopton.  Blois. 


bapt.  Walter  Clopton,  2d  son.  Blois.  Devi¬ 

see  1640  of  his  father  ;  of  Boyton,  co. 
Suffolk,  clerk,  26  Oct.  1 664,  when  he 
bapt.  i  made  Will,  P.C.C.  14  Hyde,  leaving 
all  to  Amy  Cutler,  his  kinswoman. 


Edmuud  Clopton. 
Blois. 

.  .  .  Clopton  of 
London.  Blois. 


.  .  .  Clopton  of 
clothier.  Blois. 


.  .  .  Clopton  of  London, 
stationer.  Blois. 


Dedham,  ....  wife  of  ...  . 

Wakeman  of  Gar- 
boldsham,  co.  Norff., 
clerk.  Blois. 


William  Clopton.  Esq.,  son  and=p  Bridget,  dau.  & 


heir,  aged  22  in  1640  ;  named 
in  his  father’s  will  ;  buried  at 
Groton,  25  April  1666. 


coheir  of 
Bernard,  of 
Norff.  Blois. 


Alice,  bapt.  Frances,  mar.  Joseph  Alston  of  Hindei- 
at  Groton,  weston,  co.  Norfolk,  gent.,  who  entered 
1638.  pedigree  in  the  Visitation  of  that 

County',  1664  and  had  issue. 


Elizabeth,  ux.  Robert  Cut¬ 
ler  of  Letheringham,  co. 
Suff.,  gent.  Blois. 


i - 


'William.  Blois.  Bridget,  1  aau.  i>u,is- 


Hannah  2  dau. 
Blois 


3  dau. 


- 1 

Blois. 


4  dau.  Blois. 


l - 


Amy  Cutler,  heir  and  executrix,  1664, 
to  her  uncle  Walter  Clopton. 


CLOPTON  OF  MELFORD. 


145 


Cloptoit  of  Etston. 


Joan,  da.  of  Sir  William  Marrow 
26  Oct.  28  H.  8,  1537. 


Inq.  p.m.  29  H.  8.  Died 


William  Clopton,  Esq.,  of  Liston  Hall,  co.  Esses,  in  right  of=f=Elizabeth,  da.  and  coheir  of  Thomas  Saye  of  Liston  Hall,  co.  Essex  Esq 
las  wife  ;  second  son  of  Sir  William  Clopton  of  Kentwell,  by  whose  Inq.  p.m.  was  taken  12  H.  7  ;  sister  and  coheir  of  Wm.  Saye  who  died 

in  boyhood,  1  Aug.  1508.  Liston  was  held  by  service  of  making  wafers  on  the 
King’s  Coronation  Day. 

-T 

Edward 
Clopton, 
ob.  s.p. 


Dorothy,  da.  of  Tho—2.  FrancisCIoptonof  Ked-=Mary,  da.  of  Sir=Elizabeth,  da.  of  1.  William  Clopton=j=E!izabeth,  da.  of 


mas  Gavell,  Esq.,  of 
Kirby  Cam.,  co. 
Norff.,  1st  wife.  His 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
is  dated  16Feb.  1514; 
prob.  9  Aug.  1522. 


iugton,  co.  Suff.  ;  ob  s.p. 
Joined  with  his  1st  wife  in 
sale  of  Langale  Manor, 
Norff.,  37  H  8.  11  is  2d 

wife  was  Lora,  da.  of  Sir . 
IJoger  Wentworth. 


Edw.  Walsing- 
ham  and  relict 
of  Sir  Tlios.  Bar¬ 
nardiston  of  Ket- 
tou.  co.  Suffolk, 
3d  wife. 


Sir  Tlios.  Barnar- 
diston,  and  relict 
of  .  .  .  Broxby  ; 
sister-in-law  to 
Mary  Walsingham ; 
4th  wife. 


of  Liston  Hall,  Esq., 
set.  28  in  1537  ; 
Inq.  pm.  10  Eliz.  ; 
died  6  Oct.  1568; 
mar.  settlement  22 
H.  6. 


Henry  Everard  of 
Denston.  Esq  ,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C. 
20  Alenger  10  Nov. 
1540. 


T~r 


William  Clopton  of  Liston  Hall, =j=  Anne,  da.  of  Sir  Thomas  Barnardiston  of  Ketton,  co.  Suff.  who  made  Roger,  ob 


Esq.,  son  and  heir,  set.  28,  10 
Eliz.  Inq.  p.  mortem  11  Jas. ; 
died  25  Oct.  1612. 


s,p. 


Will  10  Sept.  1551,  by  Mary,  da.  of  Sir  Edward  Walsingham,  Lieu¬ 
tenant  of  the  Tower,  who  re-married  as  above,  Francis  Clopton,  Esq.  Thomas,  ob.  s.p. 
She  was  bur.  in  Liston  Chancel  21  Nov.  1607.  3d  sou 


John  Clopton  in 
Lincolnshire. 
llarl.  MS.  1560 . 


1.  William  Clopton  of=j=Anne,  da.  of 
Liston  Hall,  Esq.,  ajt.  |  JolmWiseman 
40  in  1612  ;  Will,  of  Stisted,  co. 
P.C.C.  26  Byrd,  21  Apr.  |  Essex;  only 
1623;  probate  12 March  j  child  of  Eliz. 
1626  ;  Inq.  p.m.  22  Jac.  Glascock,  his 
Bur.  in  Liston  Chancel.  1st  wife. 


I — 

Mary 

Clop¬ 

ton, 


Anne,ux.Giles 
Harris  of 
Brinkley,  co. 
Camb.  Essex 
Visitn.,  Jfarl. 
MS.  16  42. 


Mary,  m.  1  Wm  Smyth  of  Thorndon,  Anne  ux. George 
co.  Suff.,  who  made  Will.  Cur.  Kp.  Parris  of  Dul- 
Norw.,  23  Jan.  1598  ;  prob.  21  Mar.  lingharn,  co. 
same  year.  Her  2d  husb.  was  George  Camb., by  whom 
Wheateroft,  Gent.,  of  Eye,  by  whom  she  had  an  only 
she  had  issue.  She  was  Mary  Wheat-  child,  Anne  Par- 
croft  in  1623.  Wheateroft  c.  Wiseman,  ris,  living  1623. 


2.  Francis  Clop-=f  Anne,  da,  of  John  Shorte 
ton  of  Melford 
&  after  of  Lis¬ 
ton, Gent  Will, 

Arch.  Sudb.,  8 
Nov  1630;  prob. 

21  Jan.  1640. 


William  Clopton 
of  Lis  ton,  2d  son, 
Will,Arch.Subd. 
30  May  1671  ; 
prob.  1685;  died 
at  Edwardstoue 
in  Suff.,  s.p. 


Francis  Clopton 
of  Haughley,  co. 
Suff., Gent.  Will. 
Arch.  Sudb.,  13 
Junel689;  prob. 
7  Jan.  1691. 
Ob.  s  p. 

■  1 


T 


EdmondClopton 
of  Wetheringset, 
co.  Suff  ,  Gent. 
Will,  P.C.C.  46 
Russell  ;  prob. 
16  May  1633. 
Ob.  s.p. 


Thomas  Clop¬ 
ton  of  Hitcham, 
co.  Suff  ,  Gent. 
WillArchSudb. 
14  June  1643  ; 
prob.  10  Jan. 
1645.  Ob.  s  p. 


Grisell,  ux. 
Laurence 
Wright  ot'Tos- 
tock,  Suff.,  who 
made  V\  ill, 
Arch  Sudb., 

27  April  1654. 

_ ,_J 


of  Wetheringset,  grand- 
dau.  &coh  of  Rich.  Shorte, 
who  made  Will,  P.C.C.  22 
June  1596  ;  his  Inq.  p.m. 
is  dated  38  Eliz.  ;  bur.  in 
Liston  Chancel,  1625. 

.  | 

Anne,  ux.  Margaret, 

J ohn  Cook  ux.  Wm.  El- 
of  Ipswich,  liston,  A0 
and  had  1630  ;  had 
issue  1630,  dau.  Han- 
1632.  nahElliston 

1689. 


Thomas  CIopton=pEliz..  da.  and  heir  of  John  Clopton7  ^Frances,  da. 


of  Liston  Hall, 
Esq.,  set.  12  in 
1623.  Will, P.C.C. 
17  Penn,  5  Dec. 
1667  ;  prob.  12 
Feb.  1669  ;  bur. 
at  Liston.  Served 
the  wafers  at  the 
Coronation  of 
King  Charles  the 
Second. 


Martin  Sparrow  of 
Birdbrooke,  Essex, 
who  made  \V  ill, 
P.C.C.  36  Aylett,  15 
Feb.  1651  ;  ob.  1696. 


of  Little  Wal¬ 
tham,  co.  Es¬ 
sex,  Gent. 
Morant. 


of  Mark  Mott, 
D.D.,  Rector 
of  Bayne,  co. 
Essex.  Mor¬ 
ant' s  Essex. 


Hannah,  ux.  Peter 
Devereux,  Rector 
of  Kirby.  Essex. 
Her  2d  husband 
John  Cocksedge 
of  Rougliam  mar. 
there  1641. 


William  Clop¬ 
ton  of  Rayne, 
co.  Essex,  eld¬ 
est  son.  Had 
da.  Esther 
living  1689. 


Richard  Clopton : 
of  Ipswich, Gent. 
2d  son,  Entered 
ped.  in  Suffolk 
Visitation,  1664; 
bur.  in  St.  Nich¬ 
olas  Church. 


Tich- 
burne 
Clopton. 
Morant' s 
Essex. 


John  Clop¬ 
ton  of  Jesus 
Coll., Camb. 
A.B.  1671. 
Morant, 


W  m.  Clop-  =Phen  ix , 


ton  of  St. 
John’sColl 
Camb. 
A.B.  1680. 


da.of  John 
Owen  of 
Little 
Bardfield. 


Frances, ux. 
Alleyn 
Blower  of 
Little  Wal- 
tham.clerk. 


Mercy,  m. 
Sir  Geo. 
Alleyn  of 
Little  Lees 
Bart. 


"1 — I — l 

Anne, 
Jane  and 
Elizabeth 
all  died 
unm. 


Francis, 
s,  &  h., 
set.  6,  A0 
1661. 


SarahClopton  of 
Ipswich.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  20 
Oct.  1698;  prob. 
5  Feb.  1698. 


:Sarah,  da.  of 
John  Thorne  of 
Harkstead,who 
made  Will, 
Arch.  Suff., 
1649  ;  m.  at 
Erwartonl645. 

— i 

Eliza¬ 
beth 
Clop¬ 
ton. 


Martin  Clopton, 
2d  son,  1651; 
bapt.  at  Liston, 
1630  with  a  twin 
-brother  ;  bur. 
there  15  Sep, 
1679. 


Thomas  Clopton,  3dson, 
1651;  of  London,  mer¬ 
chant,  11  Feb.  1665  ; 
Will,  P.C.C.  160  Penn, 
proved  15  Nov.  1670, 
by  John  Clopton,  his 
brother;  bur.  at  Liston 


Walter  Clopton, =Martha,  neice 
6th  son  ;  of  Rat-  to  Thos  Mael, 


tlesden.co.  Suff., 
clerk.  Will, Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  4 
June  1711.  Ob. 
s.p. 


clerk,  whose 
Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  is  da¬ 


ted  3 
1709. 


May 


Barnardiston  Clopton, 
7th  son;  bapt.  at  Liston, 
1654;  citizen  and  haber¬ 
dasher  of  London.  Will, 
P.C.C.,  160  North.  5 
Nov.  1681 ;  John  Clop¬ 
ton,  his  brother,  exor. 


Wiseman  Clop¬ 
ton,  8th  son  ; 
bapt.  at  Lis¬ 
ton,  1656  ; 
bur.  there  20 
Nov.  1680. 


- 1 

Elizabeth,  ux. 
Mr.  Thos.  Chey- 
ney  of  Eye,  mar. 
there  11  June 
1661  ;  Mar.  Lie. 
Vicar  General, 
Cant. 


William  Clop¬ 
ton  of  Liston 
Hall,  Esq., 
eldest  son, 
bapt.  at  Lis¬ 
ton,  1634.  Ob. 
1698. 


1667. 

i 

Ob.  s.p. 

- 

=pElizabeth, 

1 

Frances, 

1 

Mary,  mar. 

1 

Anne,  bapt. 

1 

Jane,  bapt. 

Lucy,  bapt. 

r  n 

John  Clopton^F  .  .  .  Matthew  Clop-n 

da.  of  Sir 

bapt. 

9  May  1671, 
Mr.  James 

1635,  mar. 

1638,  mar. 

1642,  mar. 

of  Norwich, 

ton,  6th  son, 

William  Po- 

1649. 

Robt.  Dal- 

John  Becon 

Philip 

mercer,  4th 
son,  bapt,  at 

bapt.  at  Liston, 

ley  of  Box- 

— 

Coker  of 

loson  of  Eye 

of  Colches- 

Goodwin  of 

1647  ;  of  Ed- 

ted,  Kt.,bur. 

Margaret 

Braintree. 

co.  Suffolk. 

ter,  Gent., 

Moulton, 

Liston  31  Mar, 

wards  toneHall, 

1  at  Liston, 

|  1715. 

living 

1681. 

1654. 

1658. 

clerk,  1662. 

1644;  living 
1681. 

Suffolk,  1681. 

William  Clop-=f=Anne,  da 


ton  of  Liston 
Hall,  Esq., 
living  there, 
1795, 


of  Edward 
Crispe  of 
Bury  St. 
Edmunds. 


Poley  Clopton  of  Liston  Hall,  and  also  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  Doctor  of  Physick.  Served  the 
wafers  at  the  Coronation  of  George  II.  Died 
unm,  31  Oct.  1730.  Founded  almshouses  at 
Bury.  Will.  P.C.C.  301  Auber,  30  Oct.  1730, 
prob.  23  Nov. 


Eliza beth.mar  atLis- 
ton  22  May  1690,  Ed¬ 
ward  Crispe  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  Esq. 
Ob.sj*  Executrix  to 
her  brother  1730. 


Mary. 

Eliza¬ 

beth. 


Richard  Clop¬ 
ton  of  Con¬ 
ey  Weston, 
30  Oct.  1730. 


Matthew,  1711. 
Elizabeth,  1681. 


1681. 


Elizabeth  Clopton, : 
dau.  and  coheiress. 


-Rev.  Gilbert  Affleck  of  Dalham,  co  Suffolk, 
mar.  22  Sept,  1746,  at  Rushbrook. 


Hannah  Clopton, = Martin  Folkes  of  Cheveley, 
dau,  and  coheiress,  co.  Cambridge. 

U 


Cjmtml  of  jWaplesttao. 


Inquisition  on  llje  teatl)  of  ®arl  JUbers,  1486. 

Stiff.  Inquisicio  capta  apud  Brandon  fery  in  com  pdco  penultimo  die  Octottr  anno  regni 
Eegis  Henrici  septimi  scdo  coram.  Gregorio  Lovell  Armijo  p  sacrni  Robti  Talbot,  gentelman,  Rici 
Jermyn,  &c.,  qui  dicunt  qd  Thomas  Scales,  miles,  die  quo  obijt  fuit  seisitus  de  MaSio  de 
Worlyngton  ac  de  aduocacoe  ecclie  de  Wyrlyngton  in  com  pdco,  qdqs  idem  Thomas  Scales  obijt 
in  festo  sci  Jacobi  Apli  anno  regni  Henr  sexti  tricesimo  octauo.  MaSiu  &  aduocacio  pdca 
descenderunt  cuidam  Elizabeth  filie  p?dci  Thome  Scales  vt  filie  &  hered  que  quidem  Elizabeth  iam 
defuncta  tempore  mortis  ipius  Thome  fuit  etatis  xxiiij0  annop.  Sic  inde  seisita  cepit  in  viru 

Antonio  Ay  deny  le  militem  nup  Comitem  Ryvers.  Que  quidem  Elizabeth  postea  obijt  inde  seisita 
sine  hered  mt  iparn  &  pfatis  Antoniu  pcreat  &  idem  Antonio  ipam  supuixit.  Antonins  obijt  vicesimo 
die  Junij  annc  regni  Rici  fcij  nup  de  fco  &  non  de  iure  Regis  Angl  primo.  P"dcm  maSin  de 
Wyrlyngton  tenetr  de  Abbe  de  Bury  Sci  Edmundi  &  valet  p  annu  x1'.  B'dca  Elizabeth  obijt 
scdo  die  Septemb1  anno  regni  dci  nup  Regis  Edwardi  quarti  Pciodecimo.  Et  qd  Johes  de  Veer 
Gomes  Oxon  &  Witts  Tyndale  armif  sunt  consanguinei  &  her  tarn  pdci  Thome  nup  dm  de  Scales 
qm  pdce  Elizabeth  ppinquiores.  Videlt  pdcus  Comes  Oxoii  fit  Elizabeth  filie  Johis  fit  Johis  fit 
Margarete  vfi  filiarf  &  her  Robti  dni  de  Scales  pfris  Rogi  pris  Robti  pris  Thome  nup  dni  de 
Scales  pris  pdce  Elizabeth  que  fuit  vx  pdci  Antonij.  Et  pdciis  Witts  Tyndale  fit  Thome  fil  Alane 
filie  Simonis  fil  Elizabeth  altkis  filierf  &  her  pdci  Robti  de  Scales  pJris  pdci  Rogi  pris  pdci  Robti 
pris  pdci  Thome  pris  pdce  Elizabeth  que  fuit  vx  pdci  Antonij.  Et  qd  pdcus  Comes  Oxon  est 
etatis  xl  an  nor  f  A  ampl  et  pdcus  Witts  Tyndale  est  etatis  xxxiij  annorp  &  ampi.  Ricus  Wydevile 
miles  nuc  Comes  Ryvers  est  frat  &  heres  pdci  Antonij  Comitis  in  bri  noiat  ppinquior  A  est 

etatis  xxv  annorf  &  amplius. 

This  Inquisition,  which  so  concisely  records  the  descent  of  Sir  William  Tyndal  from  Lord 
Scales,  is  one  of  the  four  which  detail  the  possessions  of  Anthony  Woodville,  Earl  Rivers,  in 
Norfolk,  Suffolk,  Hertfordshire  and  Cambridgeshire.  By  some  mediaeval  mistake  these  Escheats 
were  placed  with  those  of  the  first  year  of  Henry  VII.  Their  entry  in  the  Calendar,  “  Escaet. 

Hen.  VII,”  stands  thus  “  Antonij  nup  Comit  Ryvers  :  38  Norff.  :  Suff.  39  :  37  Hertf.  :  Cantebr.  36. 

These  offio  are  fyled  in  anno  primo  and  were  fownde  in  anno  scdo.” 


TYMDAL  OF  MAPLESTEAD. 


147 


Inquisition  on  t \)t  tr^atb  of  Sir  Militant  ®gn&al,  1498. 

Suff.  Inquisico  capta  apnd  Eye  vicesimo  septimo  die  Junij  anno  regni  Regis  Henrici 
septimi  Pciodecimo  coram  Pfio  Tylney  armi^o  Escaetore  dci  dni  Regis  post  mortem  Willi  Tendale 
militis  p  sacrm  Johis  Loveday  gentilman,  Matthei  Pygot,  Ac.  qui  dicunt  sup  sacrm  qd  pdcns  Witts 

Tendale  miles  nulla  tenuit  ter?  neq£  ten  de  dno  Rege  nec  de  aliquo  alio  die  quo  obyt.  Sed 

dicunt  qd  idem  Witts  diu  ante  obitu  suu  fuit  seitus  de  MaSijs  de  Brysworth  &  Barowe  in  com 
pdco,  et  sic  seitus  p  quandam  cartam  fteoffauit  Johem  ffyneux  militem,  Robtum  Rede  vnu  Justic 
dni  Regis,  Wilim  Boleyn,  Jotiem  Paston,  Humfrm  Conyngesby,  Ac.,  Ac.,  bend  eis  &  hered  ad  vsum 
A  intencoem  pimplend  diulsas  conuencoiies  int  ipfh  Wittm  Tendale  et  j9fat  Humfrm  Conyngesby 
confect  &  conficiend.  Et  qd  Hen?  Colet  miles  diu  ante  obitu  j3dci  Willi  Tendale  fuit  seitus  de 
Manfio  de  Wirdlington  in  coin  pdco  et  p  cartam  suu  feoffauit  {if  at  Johem  ffyneux,  Robtm  Rede, 
Ac.,  ad  intencoem  pimplend  diu:  sas  conuencoiies  in?  jidcos  Wilim  Tendale  et  Humfrm  confect, 
p’dci  Jobes  ffyneux  &  sui  cofeoffati  essent  seiti  de  jidcis  Manlys  de  Briswortli  A  Barowe  ad  vsum 
jidci  Wilti  Tendale  &  Marie  tunc  vxls  eius  iam  defunct  p  Pmio  vite  eo?  A  post  eius  decessum  ad 

vsum  Joliis  Tendale  filij  A  tunc  hered  apparentis  ipor  Willi  &  Marie  A  hered  ipius  Johis  pcreat. 

Mane?  de  Wirdlington  ten  de  Abbe  de  Bury  p  siuic  ignot  et  vai  decern  lib?.  Maner  de  Briswortli 
ten  de  Edo  Com  Suff.  p  s)  uic  igh  et  vat  quinque  libras.  Mane?  de  Barowe  ten  de  Abb  de  Bury 
Sci  Edmundi  p  s]uic  ign  et  vai  quatuor  iScas.  WiRmus  Tendale  mil  in  bri  noiat  obijt  vicesimo 
secundo  die  ffebr  anno  regni  Regis  Henrici  septimi  duodecimo.  Jobes  Tendale  est  filius  et  he? 
ppinquior  et  tempore  mortis  f?dci  Willi  fuit  tetatis  decern  annorf. 

Esch.  13  H.  7.,  No.  16. 

By  other  Inquisitions  of  this  date  Sir  William  Tyndal  was  found  to  have  been  seised  of 
the  Manors  of  Hockwold  Scales,  Ac.,  co.  Norfolk,  and  of  lands  in  Soharn  Monachorum,  Ac.,  co. 
Cambridgeshire, 


ah  of 


nffolk  (Estates,  1524. 


Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cu?  dni  Regis  apud  Westih  in  octavis  Sci  Martini  anno 
regnorj  Hen?  Octaui  dei  gra  Angl  &  ffranc  Regis  fidei  defensoris  A  dni  Hibn  a  conquestu  sexto 
decimo  coram  Robto  Brudenell,  Lodowico  Pollard,  Rico  Broke  A  Antonio  ffitzherbert,  Justic  &  alijs 
dni  Regis  fidelibj  tunc  ibi  psentibj  Int  Ricm  Belamy,  Thomam  fflete,  Thomam  Godsalue  A  Wilim 
Newton  clicm  quer  et  Johem  Tyndall  A  Amphillam  vxern  eius  deforc  de  MaSio  de  Oldhall  alias 
Bresworth  cum  ptin  ac  de  vno  mesuagio  vocat  Shrubbys  centu  acris  tre  quadraginta  solidatis 
redditus  cum  ptin  in  Bresworth,  Brokford,  Westhorpe,  magna  Thorneham,  parua  Thorneham,  Eye, 
Stokeasshe,  Yaxley,  Thorndon,  Tweyte,  Wytheryngset,  Colt,  Rysangles,  Bacton,  Wyuerston,  Cotton, 
ffemyngham  A  Gyslyngham.  Ynde  plitiu  conueiicois  sum  fuit  int  eos  in  eadem  Cu?.  Scilit  qd 
pdci  Jobes  A  Amphilla  recogn  |Jdca  maSm  &  ten  cum  ptin  esse  jus  ipius  Rici.  Et  ilia  remiserunt 
A  quietumclam  de  ipis  Jobe  A  Amphilla  &  hered  ipius  Johis  pdcis  Rico  Thome  A  \\  iftmo  A  hered 
ipius  Rici  impprn.  Et  j>Pea  ijdem  Jobes  &  AmphiHa  concesserunt  p  se  &  hered  ipius  Johis  qd 
ipi  warant  pdcis  Rico  Thome  &  WiHino  A  hered  ipius  Rici  pdca  ma3m  A  ten  cum  ptin  cont 
omes  hoies  imppm.  Et  p  hac  recogn  remissione  quietaclaiu  Warant  fine  concordia  ijdem  Ricus 
Thomas  &  Wilis  dederunt  pdcis  Johis  A  Amphille  ducentas  libras  sterlingorp.  Suff. 

Feet  of  lines,  Suff,  Mich.,  16  H.  8. 


148 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(Mill  of  ^ir  Mm  1538. 

John  Tendall  of  Iloccolde  in  the  countie  of  NorfF.  Knyght,  the  xvi  daye  of  Maye  mivcxxxviij. 
My  sonic  to  allmightie  god,  my  body  to  be  buryed  in  the  chauncell  of  Hoccolde  by  my  first  wyffe 
whoose  soule  god  pdon.  I  will  that  my  wyfe  liaue  all  her  ap  par  ell  and  jewells  for  her  body.  I 
charge  myn  executours  that  they  make  restitucon  of  all  suche  inyewres  as  canne  be  by  any  means 
provid  that  I  have  comytted.  To  the  repacoii  of  the  churche  teune  pounds.  In  the  name  of  god 
I  charge  my  wyfe  and  myn  heires  that  for  suche  landes  as  I  have  inclosyd  in  toffts  that  they  paye 
yerely  vnto  the  churches  of  Hoccolde  and  Wilton  vijs,  and  yf  they  faile  thus  to  do  I  charge  my 
sonne  Thomas  thelder  of  my  blessing  and  all  myn  executours  that  they  throw  downe  the  fences  and 
dykes  and  to  suffer  the  tenhts  to  ynioie  their  coraon  in  the  sayd  medowe  as  they  haue  donne  in 
tymys  past,  and  yf  myn  heires  woll  not  paye  the  seyd  mony,  then  yt  shalbe  lefull  for  the  tenhts 
and  the  inhabytants  to  throwe  downe  the  saide  fenses.  I  woll  also  that  for  suche  londes  as  be 
enclosyd  byfore  my  gate  that  they  paye  yerely  viijd  to  echo  churche  of  the  pisshes  of  Hoccolde  and 
Wilton  and  every  yere  two  combes  of  barley  to  the  psons  of  the  seid  churches ;  and  they  fayle  thus 
to  do  I  woll  that  the  seyd  towneships  shall  throwe  downe  the  said  heggis  and  vse  the  comou  and 
shakke  in  the  sayd  londs  as  they  vsyd  to  do.  To  the  doughters  of  Pyper  of  Cannes  fyve  pounds. 
I  woll  that  the  chyldern  of  Thomas  Jaxon  haue  iiiiu  and  half  a  hundred  of  wethers  and  ewes 
towards  their  bringing  vpp.  I  desire  my  sone  Thomas  thelder  to  se  his  sonne  brought  vp  tyll  he 
may  shyfte  for  hymself.  At  the  daye  of  my  obite  I  woll  that  as  many  as  shall  come  to  churche 
to  praye  for  my  soule  haue  '[bread  and  drynke  w*  some  other  refressing.  I  woll  that  to  every 
howsehold  in  Hoccolde  and  Wylton  be  delte  vjd  in  recompense  of  suche  corhone  dewtes  and  shakke 
as  they  haue  forborne  by  my  meanys.  To  every  household  in  Monford  xijd  in  like  recompence.  I 
woll  that  for  my  father  my  mother  for  my  wyfe  and  for  me  be  songe  iiij  trentalls  in  as  hastie  maner 
as  can  be  deuysed.  Also  that  Anne  Tendall  my  doughter  haue  two  hundred  mks  for  her  mariage. 
Mary  Tendall  my  doughter  shall  haue  three  hundred  marks  ;  Beatrix  my  daughter  one  hundred 
pounds.  To  the  doughters  of  Thomas  Baron  xl11  marks.  I  will  that  the  residue  of  my  goods  be 
deuyded  amongs  my  doughters  and  executours,  whom  I  make  my  wife,  Thomas  Tendall  thelder, 
Humfrey  Tendall  the  yonger,  my  doughter  Anne  and  my  doughter  Mary.  I  woll  that  a  horse 
price  iiij  nobles  be  deluled  vnto  Doctor  Clyffs  executours  that  they  se  his  debts  payd.  Probation 
viij0  die  Nouembris  1539  juramento  Thome  Tyndall  senior  executoris.  P.C.C.  33  Dineley. 


Will  of  Borotljn  ^tafiorft,  1608. 

The  one  and  twentith  day  of  June  1608,  in  the  sixt  yeare  of  our  Soveraigne  Lord  James 
■of  England,  &c.,  Kinge,  I  Dorothie  Stafford  of  Newe  Romney  in  the  county  of  Kent,  late  the 
wife  of  Henry  Stafford  clarke  make  this  my  last  will.  My  bodie  to  be  buried  in  the  churche  of 
new  Romney  besides  Mr  Stafford  in  the  chauncell  there.  I  did  morgage  an  estate  in  eight  acres 
of  land  in  new  Romney  for  the  good  of  Peregrin  Merricke  my  nephew.  My  will  is  that  Nicholas 
Parkhurst  who  hath  married  Judith  the  daughter  and  heire  of  my  saide  husband  shall  redeeme 
the  same  to  remaine  vnto  Stafford  Parkhurst  sonne  of  the  said  Judith,  and  to  the  heires  of  his 
bodye.  I  give  and  bequeath  to  my  cosen  Margarett  Tyndall  my  best  gilt  salte  and  my  trencher 
salt  and  one  dozen  of  silver  spoones.  To  my  cosen  Thomas  Scott  and  Elizabeth  his  wief  twoe 
gilt  cuppes.  And  of  this  will  I  make  Sr  John  Tyndall  Knight  my  sole  executor.  But  if  he  shall 
refuse  then  I  appoint  Judith  Parkhurst  to  be  sole  executrix.  Probatum  vicesimo  quinto  Octobris 
1608  jura*0  Judithe  Parkhurst,  executri8.  P.C.C.  89  Windebauk. 


TYNDAL  OF  MAPLESTEAD. 


149 


Util!  of  Sir  Joljn  'Sgtital,  1616. 

I,  Sr  John  Tyndall  of  Much  Maplestead  in  the  Countie  of  Essex,  Knight,  consideringe  that 
my  tyme  of  departure  out  of  this  trausitorie  life  is,  by  the  ordinarie  age  of  man,  nowe  neere  at 
hande,  yet  in  my  reasonable  health  and  vnderstandinge,  doe  make  my  will.  I  bequeathe  both 
my  bodie  and  sowle  into  the  mercifull  handes  of  Jesus  Christ,  my  onely  Saviour  and  Redeemer. 
I  have  by  severall  deedes  heretofore  disposed  of  certaine  of  my  hereditaments  and  chattells.  The 
rest  of  my  goods  I  give  vnto  my  deerely  beloved  wife,  whome  I  also  appoint  sole  executor,  duringe 
her  life,  and  after  her  death  I  give  saide  residue  vnto  my  verie  kinde  and  lovinge  brother  ffraunces 
Tindall  Esqj,  and  make  him  my  onely  executor.  And  after  his  death  I  make  my  sonne  Deane 
Tyndall  executor  :  and  yf  he  refuse,  then  my  sonne  Arthur  Tyndall  and  my  daughter  Margaret 
Tyndall.  Item  I  give  to  my  saide  wife  the  guilt  bason  and  ewer,  and  the  guilt  cupps,  and 
white  silver  bowle  which  sometymes  were  her  first  lmsbandes.  Item  I  give  vnto  her  my  great 
and  little  white  silver  salt  wth  their  covers  ;  and  my  guilt  tankarde  and  all  the  chaines  of  gold 
and  borders  of  gold  and  other  Jewells  which  she  hath  heretofore  vsed  to  weare.  I  desire  Sr  Jo. 
Deane  Knight  and  the  lady  his  wife,  my  brother  ffrancis  Tindall  and  my  sister  ffisher,  my  nephew 
Mr  Thomas  ffisher  and  loving  brothers  in  lawe  Mr  Thomas  Egerton  and  Mr  Stephen  Egerton  may 
haue  ringes.  House  in  Much  Maplestead  wherein  I  dwell  to  my  sonne  Arthur  Tindall  after  decease 
of  wife.  Probatum  2  Dec.  1616  Juramento  Deane  Tindall  :  Relicta  renunciah. 

Cur.  Prterog.  Cant.,  126  Cope. 

The  testator’s  daughter,  Margaret  Tyndal,  third  wife  of  John  Winthrop,  Governor  of 
Massachusetts,  was  one  of  the  memorable  women  of  Puritan  times  and  has  repeatedly  been  the 
subject  of  biography. 


Mill  of  JUtne  1620, 

The  14  of  June  1620,  I  Anne  Tindall  of  Much  Maplested  in  the  Countie  of  Essex  widow 
do  make  my  will.  First,  according  to  the  manner  of  gods  Elect  I  bequeath  my  soule  to  God 
that  gave  it,  to  Jesus  Christ  his  soone  that  Redeemed  it,  and  to  the  blessed  Spirritt  that  Sanctified 
yt  :  my  bodie  to  be  buried  in  the  place  where  yt  shall  please  god  to  call  me.  I  give  to  my 

loueing  and  eldest  sonne  Sr  John  Deane,  for  a  token  of  my  loue,  my  right  hand  bracelett  of  gould 

with  the  round  stone,  and  to  my  kinde  daughter  in  law  his  wife  my  other  bracelett  of  goold, 

the  fellow  to  it  :  also  I  give  to  that  sweete  brood  their  children  ten  pounds  to  be  bestowed  in 

some  pretty  Jewells  for  each  of  them.  To  my  eldest  daughter  Rachell  Deane  my  silver  standish ; 
and  to  my  daughter  Anne  Deane  my  two  new  sillver  porringers.  To  my  loueing  brother  in  law 
Mr  ffrancis  Tindall  my  wedding  ring  that  I  was  married  with  to  his  brother.  To  my  loueing 

and  kinde  brother,  Mr  Steuen  Egerton,  and  to  my  sister  his  wife,  for  want  of  a  better  legacie, 

my  gilt  tankard,  and  to  my  loueing  and  good  brother,  Mr  Thomas  Egerton,  a  pece  of  plate.  To 
my  lovinge  sonn  Deane  Tindall  my  gilt  bason  and  ewer,  with  nest  of  gilt  cups,  and  salts  sutable 
therto,  and  the  gilt  spones.  To  my  daughter  in  law  his  wife  my  cipresse  box  with  tills,  with 

such  trifles  as  she  shall  finde  in  yt.  To  my  goddaughter  Ann  Tindall  my  greate  silver  salte  and 

twentie  pounds  in  mony.  To  my  grandchilde  John  Tindall  two  silver  boules  and  my  two  liverie 
potts  and  tenn  pound  in  mony.  To  my  loveing  son  Arthure  Tindall  thirtie  pounds.  To  my 
daughter  Tindall  my  velvit  Gowne  and  kirtle  and  my  velvitt  cloak e.  To  my  daughter  \Y inthorp 
my  Tuftafeta  Gowne  and  my  Cabinett  which  her  father  gave  me.  I  give  her  my  greene  vclvett 


150 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


box  with  tills  and  all  such  things  as  be  in  them  at  the  time  of  my  death.  To  my  neece  Gibson, 
and  to  Ann  Hunwich  her  daughter.  To  my  louing  sonn  and  daughter,  John  and  Margaret 
Winthorp  and  theire  two  sonns  Steuen  and  Adam,  all  my  plate  and  money  not  before  bequeathed, 
I  make  my  loueing  sonn  Deane  Tindall  my  sole  executor.  No  moorneing  cloathes  to  be  given 
at  my  funerall  neither  chargeable  feast,  but  only  that  which  for  Christian  comeliness  is  necessary  ; 
Mr  Sephray  my  godly  frend  to  preach.  I  give  vnto  my  loueinge  brother  and  sister  each  of  them 
a  ring  of  the  value  of  twentie  shillings  apeece  in  remembrance  of  my  loue  to  them.  I  also 
intreate  my  executor  to  bestowe  some  little  remembrance  which  he  shall  thinke  fitt  vppon  Luce 
Reade  and  James  Harrington,  or  any  other  who  he  shall  thinke  hath  deserved  to  be  remembred 
by  me  in  my  will.  Probatum  secundo  die  Novembris  1620  Juramento  Decani  Tindall  executoris. 

Cur.  Pnerog.  Cant.,  94  Soame. 


Will  at  $>nnt  limits,  1624. 

In  the  name  of  God,  amen.  I  Anne  Deane  of  Much  Maplested  in  the  county  of  Essex, 
sister  vnto  Sr  John  Deane  of  Maplested,  Knight,  the  26  daye  of  June  1624,  make  this  my  last 
will.  I  comitt  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  Allmightie  god  my  most  loving  Creator  and  Redeemer  : 
and  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  chancell  of  Much  Maplestead.  I  give  vnto  my  most  lovinge 
sister  Mris  Rachell  Deane  all  my  lands  wlh  all  my  interest  in  the  Mannor  of  Terrington  Howards 
wthin  the  county  of  Norff:  Vnto  my  said  sister  one  little  white  Boxe  wth  all  the  money,  gould 
&  Jewells  therein  contayned.  Ynto  my  sister  Mrs  Winthrop,  one  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  my 
neece  Mm  Anne  Deane  one  hundred  pounds.  Ynto  my  brother  Mr  Arthur  Tindall  Esq3,  tenne 
pounds.  Vnto  my  nevew  Mr  Drew  Deane  tenne  pounds.  Vnto  my  two  neeces  Mris  Anne  Tyndall 
and  Elizabeth  Tyndall.  I  desire  Mr  Blyth  or  minister  to  preach  at  my  ffunerall.  Vnto  my  cosen 
Mris  Anne  Gibson.  I  ordaine  my  lovinge  brother,  Mr  Deane  Tyndale  Esquier  executor,  yea  most 
humblye  entreating  him  to  execute  the  same  accordinge  to  my  true  meaninge,  and  if  he  shall 
refuse,  my  desire  is  that  my  brother  in  lawe,  Mr  John  Winthrop  of  Groton  Esquier,  will  be  my 
executor.  In  witnes  whereof  I  haue  liereonto  sett  my  hand  and  seale  the  daie  and  yeare  aforesaid. 
Vicesimo  sexto  die  Januarij  1624  emanavit  comisio  Dho  Johanni  Deane  militi,  fri  nrali  et  ltirho 
defuncti,  ad  administrand  bona,  eo  quod  Deane  Tyndall  et  Johannes  Winthrop  oneri  execucohis 
renunlciarunt.  P.C.C.  8  Clarke. 


Will  of  S>aral)  (S^rtait,  1624- 

Sarah  Egerton  of  the  Parish  of  Blackfriars  London,  widow,  19th  Aug.  1624.  To  be  buried 
in  the  vault  in  the  Blackfriars  near  my  husband.  To  my  most  loving  cousin  Deane  Tyndale  of 
Much  Maplestead  in  the  county  of  Essex  Esqr  and  to  his  two  daughters  Mrs  Anne  and  Elizabeth 
Tyndale  one  hundred  pounds  apeece  :  to  my  loving  cousin  Mrs  Margaret  Winthrop  wife  unto  John 
Winthrop  of  Grotton  in  the  county  of  Suffolk  Esqr  one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  cousin  Anne 
Gibson  widow  one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  cousin  Mrs  Felix  Hilderson.  To  my  cousin  Mr  Thomas 
Egerton,  Minister  of  Adstock  in  Buckinghamshire,  and  to  his  sister  Elizabeth  Jones.  To  my  loving 
brother  Sir  Thomas  Croke  of  Ireland,  Knight  and  baronet,  the  seal  and  ring  with  the  death’s  head 
that  was  my  husbands ;  and  to  his  son  Mr  Thomas  Crooke  of  Grays  Inn,  co.  Middlesex  Esqr  my 
watch.  To  my  brother  Mr  Samuel  Crooke,  clerke,  my  wedding  ring.  To  each  of  my  other 
brothers,  Mr  D1  Crooke  and  Richard  Crooke,  clerke,  forty  shillings  apeece  to  buy  them  rings.  To 
my  niece  Alice  Crooke  daughter  to  my  brother  Dr  Crooke  all  my  plate.  To  my  sisters  Mra  Leach, 


TYNDAL  OF  MAPLESTEAD, 


151 


M"  Rowse  and  Mrs  Crooke,  wife  to  my  said  brother  Richard  Crooke,  forty  shillings  apeece  to  buy 
rings.  To  Mr  Gouge,  Lecturer  of  the  Blackfriars,  forty  shillings  to  buy  a  ring ;  and  I  appoint  him 
supervisor  of  my  will.  Residue  of  personality  to  my  said  cousin,  Mr  Deane  Tindall  and  I  appoint 
him  sole  executor.  Witnesses,  Fra:  Whitmore,  Arth:  Tindal. 

Proved' in  the  Prerogative  Court  of  Canterbury,  110  Byrde,  28  Dec.  1621,  by  the  Executor. 


Will  of  S>n  Uoijtt  Bratte,  1625. 

Sr  John  Deane  of  Maplested  Magna  in  the  Countie  of  Essex,  Knight,  9  ffeb.  in  the  firste  year 
of  King  Charles,  1625.  Item  Ynto  my  daughter  Anne  Deane  six  hundreth  poundes  ;  and  to  my 
daughters  Elizabeth  Deane,  Dorcas  Deane,  ffrances  Deane  and  Mildred  Deane  hue  hundreth.  pounds  a 
peece  as  they  shall  come  to  the  age  of  eighteene  yeares.  And  I  doe  will  and  bequeathe  vnto  my 
welbeloued  wiefe  my  Mannor  of  Dyneshall  and  other  my  landes  in  Maplested  Magna,  Maplested 
Parva  and  Halsted  in  consideracoh  of  Indenture  wherein  I  covenaunted  to  augment  her  Joynture 
ffowerskore  poundes  a  yeare.  Ynto  Executors  the  prcfitts  of  my  leases  of  Poslingford  Hall, 
Howton  Hall,  Jmpie  Hall,  Bully  Hall,  Nether  Hall  and  Overhall  in  the  parishes  of  Poslingford, 
Chavcndishe  and  Clare  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke,  duringe  twelfe  yeares,  towards  payment  of  legacies. 
Vnto  Drew  Deane  my  eldest  sonne  the  residue  of  said  leases.  Vnto  John  Deane  my  sonne  fifty 
pounds  a  year  out  of  my  lands  of  Onehowse  and  Calcott  in  Suffolke  at  his  age  of  twenty  j  eares. 
I  make  my  welbeloued  wife  and  my  sonne  Drew  Deane  my  executo18.  And  I  doe  humbly  praye 
the  right  Hoble  his  Mats  Master  of  his  Highnes  Courts  of  Wardes  and  Liveries  that  he  would  be 
pleased  to  graunt  the  Wardship  of  my  sonne  to  my  welbeloved  wife.  Probat.  4  May  1626  Jur  Diie 
Anne  Deane  relcte.  Reseruate  ptate  Drugonis  Deane  filij.  Probatum  20  Nov.  1626  jur  Drugonis 
Deane  filij.  Cur.  Prasrog.  Cant.,  57  Hele. 


SStiU  of  Hadjsll  Beano,  1626. 

Rachell  Deane  of  greate  Maplestead  in  the  county  of  Essex  gentlewoman,  the  27tu  daye  of 
Aprill  1626,  well  weighinge  that  the  settling  things  in  tyme  is  the  occasion  of  after  quiett,  doe 
make  this  my  will.  I  giue  vnto  the  Lady  Deane  my  sister  and  widdowe  vnto  my  brother  Sr  John 
Deane  one  fayre  diamond  ringe  enameled  blacke.  Ynto  Anne  Deane  my  niece  eldest  daughter  to 
Sr  John  Deane  my  damaske  gowne,  my  damaske  petticoate  and  my  riding  coate  of  crimson  bayes. 
Vnto  my  niece  Elizabeth  Deane  his  second  daughter  my  grogoren  gowne,  my  cornation  velvett 
pettycoate  and  my  white  gowne  of  tufted  holland.  Vnto  my  nephewe  John  Deane  his  second  sonne 
my  lands  called  Clenchworton  Marshe  in  Marsheland  in  Norfolk,  noe  waye  belonging  vnto  my 

Mannor  in  Marsheland.  I  give  unto  Edmund  Steedman  clerke  and  Parson  of  Onehowse  in  the 

countye  of  Suff  my  biggest  drinckinge  bowlle  of  silver.  Vnto  Anne  Joseline  for  her  longe  and 
faithefull  service  threescore  poundes  with  all  my  goodes,  silver  plate  and  moveables  not  otherwise 
given  in  this  my  will.  Vnto  Deane  Tindall  esquier  of  greate  Maplested  a  ringe  of  ffive  pounds 
price  for  a  remembrance.  Vnto  Drue  Deane  my  nephew  eldest  sonne  vnto  Sr  John  Deane  my 
little  truncke  box  covered  wth  greene  velvett  wth  a  needleworke  purse  of  sylke  &  silver  and  twoe 
peeces  of  oulde  goulde.  Vnto  aforesaid  nephewe  Drue  Deane  all  my  leases  lands  &  tenemtB 
in  Marsheland,  his  heires  &  assignes  for  eu.  I  make  Deane  Tindall  esquier  and  the  aforesayd 

Drewe  Deane  ioyntlye  my  executors.  Steuen  Deane  a  witness.  Probatum  septimo  dei  Junij  1627 
juramento  Deane  Tyndall  armigeri  et  Drugonis  Deane  ar  executoru.  P.C.C.  60  Skynner. 


152 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Cp&al  l^etotgree,  ^arl.  1411  anti  1542. 

Arms  (Sari.  MS.  1411) : — Quarterly  of  eighteen.  1,  Tyndall ;  Arg.  on  a  fess  sa.,  three  garbs  or:  2,  Dene:  3,  Bigod: 

4,  Grantesmill :  5,  Felbrigge  :  6,  Seales:  7,  Besuffen  :  8,  Lyzens  :  9,  Roffa  al’s  Rochester:  10,  Ufforde:  11, 

Vesy:  12,  Glanvill  :  13,  Valoines :  14,  Crake:  15,  Blond:  16,  Norwich:  17,  Mundefiord  :  18,  Inglethorpe. 

- 

Crest  : — Out  of  a  ducal  coronet  or,  a  plume  of  feathers  ermine,  within  a  basket  gu. 

Sr  Rob.  ffelbrigge  of  felbrigge  in  Norff:  mar.  Eliz.  Scales.  These  ffelbriggs  were  yr-  issu=f- Elizabeth,  eldest  d.  A  at  length  coh, 


male  of  Simon  Bigod  of  ffelbrigge,  yonger  son  ot  Hugh  Bigod,  S'* 1  E.  of  Norff. 


of  Rob.  L.  Scales  of  Barkway. 


Sr  Simon  ffelbrigge  of  ffelbrigge,  K. ^Margaret,  d.  A  h.  of  Semouitius  D.  of  Tescliinia  A  Silesia  in  Bohemia  A  of  his  wife. 


seas  made  K<  of  y*  Garter  by  K.  Hen. 
ye  5th. 


sister  to  Charles  ye  Jfh  Emperor  A  King  of  Bohemia.  She  cam  into  England  with 
Rich.  yf  Sds  wife. 


ASlana,  daughter  A  h.  of  Sr  Simon  ffelbrigge,  was  ivife  of  Sr  Will:  Tyndall.=^Sr  Will:  Tyndall  of  Beane  in  Northamp.,  married 
“  Soror  A  heres  Thom.  Felbrig,”  Stowe  MS.  613.  Alanaffel:  A  d.  ye  4  of  Hen.  6. 


Sr  Tho.  Tyndall  of  Deane,  K.,  married  Margaret  Ycluerton.=^Margart  d.  of  Sr  Will.  Yeluerton,  Chief  Justice  of  ye  Kings 

I  Bench. 


Sr  Will:  Tyndall  was  on  of  ye  Heires  general!  of  the  L,  Scales  A  had=^Mary,  d.  Ah.  of  Sr  Osbert 
Jlockwold  A  Wilton,  Ac,,  in  Norff:  after  that  Eliza,  Countess  of  Riuers,  Moundford  of  ffeltwell  in 
died  sans  issue:  Of  Hockwold  in  com.  Norff:  in  the  right  of  his  wiffe  : 
he  was  fformerly  of  Deane. 


Norff.  Gilbert Moundcfford 
of  Hockwold  in  corn,  Norff. 


Anne,  wife 
of  Sr  Hen. 
St  Jermyn. 


Jane,  wife  of 
John  Blenner- 
hasset  of  ffrense 
in  Norff. 


Sr  John  Tyndall  of  Hockwold  K.,  was  one  of  ye  Knights  of  the  Bath  at~ Amphillis,  d.  of  Sr  Humfrey  Conyngsby,  one  of 
ye  Coronation  of  Qaeene  Anne  Bollen.  Will,  P.C.C.  33  Dyngeley,  1538.  I  ye  Judges  of  ye  K.  Bench. 


Anne,  d.  o/=fS'’  Tho.  Tyndall=f=  Annie,  d.  of 


William  Pas- 
ton,  1  wife. 
Harl.MS.1542 


of  Hockwold  K., 
lyeth  buried  at  Ely. 
Will,  P.C.C.  37 
Butts,  1584. 


William  Tyndall. 

'Y 


Sr  Hen.  ffar- 
mour  of  Bars- 
ham  in  Norff., 
Knt.,  2  wife. 


Wul  Tyn¬ 
dall  married 
Anne,  d.  of 
Beaumarch, 
A  had  Will 
Tyndall. 


Dorothy 
wife  of  John 
Payton  of 
Knolton  in 
Kent,  Esq. 


— n - 

.  .  .  wife 
of  Keyes. 

.  .  .  wife 
of  Bacon. 


- I — i - 

.  .  .  wife 
of  Mer- 
ick. 

.  .  .  wife 
ofTylney. 


Beatrix,  2d 
wife  of  Rob. 
Dynne  of 
Beydon  in 
Norff. 


William  =p A  nne,  d.  of  Tho.- 

r 

i=Sr  John  Tyn • 

'  r 

2.  ffrances 

< 

Humffrey  Tin- 

“T 

Thomas- 

~r 

Elizabetli , 

T 

Susan , 

Elizabeth,  wife 

Deane, 

Egerton  of  Lon- 

dall  of  Much 

Tyndall 

dall,  Deane  of 

ine,  wife 

wife  of 

wife  of 

of  Tho.  ffisher. 

Esq.,  1 

don.  Esq.,  de- 

Maplested  in 

of  Lon- 

Ely  A  Mr  of 

of  Wilt. 

Coxey  of 

James 

marchant  of 

husbd. 

scended  of  ye 

Essex,  K.,Doc- 

don,  Esq., 

Queenes  Col- 

Calthorp 

Soame  in 

Whitall. 

London.  ( Vr- 

See 

Egertons  of 

tor  of  ye  Civil!, 

s.p. 

ledg  in  Cam- 

of  Ing- 

Cam- 

2dly  of 

sula,  ux.  .  .  . 

Deane 

IVronghall  in 

Lawe  A  one  of 

— 

bridg..  s.p. 

ham  in 

bridgsh. 

Tho.  fish- 

Fisher  of  Lon- 

Pedi¬ 

gree. 

Staff.  Of  Wrin- 
hillfiester.  Will, 
P.C.C.94Soame. 

the  Ms  of  the 
Chancery. 

3.  Henery 

Will,  P.C.C. 
108  Lawe 
1613. 

Norff., 

Esq. 

er,  mar- 
chant  of 
London. 

don.  Hail. 
MS.  1542.) 

Sir  John  Deane, 
Knighted  by  K. 
James,  1603  ; 
died  1625.  See 
DeanePediguee 


— n 
Anne 


Deane. 
Rachel  Deane. 


- 1 - r 

Deane  Tyndall  of  Map.^ Amy , 
tested,  Esqr  eldest  son  A 
heire,  one  of  the  Justices 
of  the  peaceof  his  county, 

Ao  1634. 


d.  A  sole 
heire  of  RobertWes- 
ton  of  Preston  Hall 
in  fjering  in  com. 
Essex. 


Arthur,  Margarett,vx .John  Win- 
ob.  s.p.  trope  of  Groton  in  Suffolk. 

Esqr.  “  Qui  migrauit  in 
novam  Angliam.”  Stowe 
MS.  613,  p.  181. 


- 1 

Rog’us  Tin¬ 
dall,  ob.  s.p. 
Stowe  MS. 


L 


1.  ffrances  Tyndall,  eldest  son  A  heire  apparent : 
aged  dbout  19  yeres,  A0  1634. 


2.  John. 


3.  Drue.  4 •  Deane. 


— i - 

Anne. 


Elizabeth. 


On  her  death  in  1413,  Sir  Simon  Felbrigg  placed  a  handsome  brass  over  the  grave  of  his  high-born  wife  in 
Felbrigg  Church,  with  this  inscription  : — “  Hie  jacent  Symon  Felbrygge  miles  quondam  vexillare  Illustrissimi  d  ni  Regis 
Ricardi  s’cdi  qui  obijt  .  .  .  die  mensis  .  .  .  anno  d’ni  mcccc  .  .  .  et  d’na  Margareta  quonda.  consors  sua  natioue  k 
gen’oso  sanguine  Boernrc  ac  olim  domicella  d’ne  d’ne  Anne  qu°da.  Anglie  Regine.  Que  obijt  xxvij  die  mensis  Junij 
a0  d’ni  mccccxiii  quar.  aiabz.  ppicietur  deus  Ame'." 


TYNDAL  OF  MAPLES  TEA  I). 


153 


Cgnlial  of  iHflaplesteati. 


Robert  Tyndal  ;  of  the  family1 
of  Adam  de  Tyndal,  Baron  of 
South  Tyudal  and  of  Langley 
Castle,  temp.  K.  John. 


i - 

Robert  Tvndal  of  Tausover,=j-Joan. 
co.  Northampton,  living 
1293. 


Sir  Wm.  Tyndal=pElizabeth,  cousin  and 
of  Tansover ;  ob.  |  heir  of  Sir  Henry 
40  E.  3,  1367.  I  Dene  of  Dene,  co. 
Blomefield ,  ii.  181.  ]' Northampton. 

i - 1 

John  Tyndal  of  Tansover,=j=Catheriue,  da. 


Henry  VII,  Emperor1 
of  Germany  and  Earl 
of  Luxemberg  ;  d. 
1331. 


_ l 


:Margaret,da.  Robert.2dLordScales.=f=Evelina.  da.  of  Sir 
of  .  .  .  Duke  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  I  Hugh  Courtenay, 

of  Brabant.  Worlington,  Suffolk;  I  sister  of  Hugh, Earl 

Iucp  p.m.  1325.  |  of  Devon. 


John,  Earl  of  Luxem-=j=-Elizabeth,  da.  and 
berg  and  King  of  Bo-  I  heir  of  Wenceslaus 
hernia;  slain  1346  at  |  IV,  King  of  Bo- 
the  battle  of  Cressy.  !  hernia. 

i - — - - J 

sister  ofq=Semovitius,  Duke  of 
Emperor  Silesia  and  Teschiua, 
who  died  died  1383. 


Robert,  3d  Lord  Scales, =j=Catheriue  sister 


Elizabeth, 
Charles  IV, 
of  Germany, 
1378. 


Lord  of  the  Manor  of 
Worlington  ;  d.  1370. 

Inq.  p.m.  43  E.  3. 

ultima  tely=pSir 


and  coh.  of  Wm. 
de  Lfford,  Earl 
of  Suffolk. 


Elizabeth, 
coheir  to  the  Barony  of 
Seales  ;  sister  to  Roger. 
4  th  Baron  Scales. 


Roger  Bigod  al’s 


Felbrigg  of  Fellbrigg. 
co.  Norfolk,  living  41  E, 
3  ;  died  in  Prussia. 


and  of  Dene  in  right  of 
his  mother  ;  died  1  H 
5,  1413. 


Sir  Humphrey 
Zouch. 


of  Margaret,  da.  and  heir,=j=Sir  Simon  de  Felbrigg  of  Felbrigg,  K.G.,  descendant  of  the  Bigods, 


ob.  1413.  Handsome 
brass  with  M.I.  at  Fel¬ 
brigg,  Norfolk. 


Earls  of  Norfo'k.  Will,  P.C.C.  14  Rous,  Testamenta  Vetusta,  dated 
Sept.  1431.  proved  Feb.  1443.  Buried  in  the  Church  of  the  Friars 
Preachersat  X  orwich.  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Breisworth,  co.  Suffolk 


Richard  Tyndal,  obijt  3  H.  5.  sans  Sir  William  Tyndall  of  Dene,= 
issue.  Blomefield' s  Norfolk,  ii.  181.  co.  Northampton  ;  ob.  4  H.  6. 


-Helena,  heiress  to  Thomas  Felbrigg,  her=Sir  Thomas  Wanton,  devisee 
brother;  had  Breisworth  Manor  inSuffolk.  1431  of  Sir  Simon  Felbrigg. 


Sir  Thomas  Tyndal  of  Dene,  and  of  Redeuhall,  co.  Norfolk,  grandson  and  devisee  of  Sir  Simon=j=Margaret.  da.  of  Sir  William  Yelverton, 
Felbrigg,  1431  ;  then  under  age  ;  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Breisworth  in  Suffolk.  He  died  1448.  I  Chief  Justice  of  the  King’s  Bench,  1471. 


i — 1 - ~ — 

Anne,  wife  of  Sir 
Henry  St.  Germain. 

Elizabeth,  d.  unm. 


Sir  William  Tyndall  of  Dene,  and  after  of  Hockwold,  co.  Norfolk.=pMary,  da.  and  heir  of  Sir  J  oan,  wife  of  John Blen- 

nerhasset  of  Frenze, 
co.  Norff.,  by  whom 
daughters  only. 


in  right  of  his  wife.  6  E.  4  ;  Inq.  p.m.  13  H.  7  ;  created  K.  B.  at 
the  marriage  of  Arthur.  Prince  of  Wales.  Inherited  Worlington 
Manor,  1484,  as  one  of  the  heirs  of  Thomas,  Lord  Scales. 


_ i 

of  Sir 


Osbert.Mondefordof  Felt- 
well,  co.  Norfolk,  Esq.,  by 
Eliz.  da.  of  .  .  .  Berney. 


Sir  John  Tyndal  of  Hockwold,  created  K.B.  at  the  Coronation  of=p Ampliillis,  da. 

Queen  Anne  Boleyn.  Will,  P.C.C.  Dyngeley,  1538.  Said  to  have  j  Bench.  She  ob.  1532 
been  offered  the  Crown  of  Bohemia,  bold. Suffolk  Manors  1524. 


Humphrey  Coningsby,  Judge  of  the  King's 
Brass  and  M  I.  in  Hockwold  Chancel. 


Anne,  da.  of  Sir  Wm.  Pas-=f  Sir  Thomas  Tyndal  of  Hockwold  and  Great= 


ton,  by  Bridget,  da.  of  Sir 
Henry  Heydon  of  Bacons- 
thorpe,  1st  wife. 


Maplestead,  High  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  and 
Suffolk.  1561.  Fuller.  Will,  P.C.C.  37 
Butt,  18  April  1534. 


-Anne,  daughter  of  S'r  Henry  William 
Fermor  of  East  Bersliam,  co.  Tyudal. 
Norff.,  2d  wife  ;  mar.  circa  15-14. 


- 1 — i 

Mary  &  Bea¬ 
trice,  1538. 


Wm.  Tyudal,  eld. 
son;  died  1591 ;  he 
sold  Hockwold  to 
Sir  Wm.  Pastou.  ; 
m.  Anne,  da.  of 
Sir  Ambrose  Jer- 
myn.  and  had  only 
child  Felix,  who 
d.  s.p. 


of= 


Sir  John  Tyndal, 
Great  Maplestead  ; 
Knighted  1603  ;  a  Mas¬ 
ter  in  Chancery  ;  mur¬ 
dered  1616  by  John 
Bertram ,  a  disappointed 
litigant.  Will  dated  17 
Jan.  1615,  P.C.C.  65 
Soane. 


Anne,  da  of 
Thomas  Egerton 
Esq.  ;  widow  of 
William  Deane, 
Esq.  Her  Will 
is  elated  14  June 
1620. 


Francis  Tyndal, 
ob.  1633,  s.p.,  act. 
80. 

Henry  Tyndal. 

William  Tyndal, 
the  younger. 


H  umplirey  Ty  u  dal , 
D.D.,  Dean  of  Ely; 
ob.  1614.  Brass  & 
M.I.  in  Ely  Cathe¬ 
drals  Jane,  da.  of 
Robt.  Russell  of 
West  Rudham.  co. 
Norff.  Will, P.C.C. 
108  La  we. 


Susan,  mar.  1 , 
James  Whittall ; 
2,  Tho.  Fisher  of 
London.  His 
Will  1613, P.C.C. 
27  Capel. 

Elizabeth,  mar. 
.  .  .  Page. 


Ursula,  mar.  .  .  . 
Coy  of  Soame;  she 
re-mar. ...  Upcher. 

Anne  or  Winifred, 
mar.  Wm.  Cal- 
throp  of  Ingham, 
Esq. 


Deane  Tyndal,  son  and  heir,=f:Amy,  da.  and 
born  1586  ;  bur.  at  Great 
Maplestead,  25  April  1678. 
a;t.  92. 


heir  of 
Robert  Weston  of  Pres- 
ted  Hall  in  Fering,  co. 
Essex. 


Arthur  Tyndal,  ob  s  p. ; 
bur.  in  Great  Maple¬ 
stead  Church,  3  Oct. 
1633. 


— 1 — i - 

Sarah,  ob.  in 
infancy. 

Roger  Tyndal. 


Margaret,  mar.,  April  29  1618,  John  Win- 
throp  of  Groton,  co,  Suffolk,  Esq.,  after 
Governor  of  Massachusetts  ;  his  3d  wife  ; 
ob.  14  June  1647,  ajt.  56, 


1.  Francis  Tyndal, 
son  &  heir.  d.  s.p. 
in  1634, aged  about 
19  years. 


2,  JohnTyndal  of  Great=pElizabeth,  da.  of  An- 


Maplestead,  Esq.,  heir 
to  his  father;  died  1706, 
aged  90  years. 


thouy  Deane  of  Dynes 
Hall.  co.  Essex,  second 
cousin  to  her  husband. 


3  DrueTyndal 
a  Hamburgh 
Merchant;  ob. 
1665,  s.p. 


4  Dene  Tyndal, 
buried  at  Great 
Maplestead.  23 
March,  1633. 


Elizabeth  Tyndal, 
mar.  8  Jan.  1701. 


only  dau.  and  heir  ;=r Jasper  Blythman  of  the 
|  of  Leeds  ;  died  20  March 
_ l 


Middle  Temple,  Esq.,  son  and 
173|.  See  Blythman  pedigree 


Anne,  mar  Thos,  Bowater  Elizabeth 
of  Whitley,  co.  Warwick,  d.  unm. 
and  of  the  Middle  Tern-  28  Mar. 
pie  ;  mar.  26  Sept.  1639.  1710. 

heir  of  Jasper  Blythman,  Recorder 
in  Tlioresby’s  Topography  of  Leeds. 


Lucy  Blythman,  only  dau.  and  heir,  married  1737  Charles  King,  Esq.,  son  to  William  King,  LL.D.,  Principal  of  St,  Mary’s 
Hall,  Oxford  ;  and  had  two  daughters  and  coheirs. 

V 


- 


154 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


®eane  of  Csses,  1634. 

Candler's  pedigree,  Harl.  MS.  6071,  and  Tanner  MSS.,  Lib.  Lodi,  (in  italics),  collated  with  the 

Visitation  pedigree,  1 634,  Marl.  MS.  1542. 

Arms  :— Sa,  a  fess  ermine,  between  three  chaplets  or  :  a  crescent  for  difference. 

Crest: — A  bear’s  head  couped  sa.,  muzzled  or;  a  crescent  for  difference. 

So  in  the  tricking,  Hart.  MS.  1542,  beside  which  is  noted  “  A  confirmation  by  l’res  Pattents  by  William 
ffower  al's  Norroy  King  of  Armes  to  William  Deane  of  Soffeld,  2  sonn  of  Will’m  Deane  of  Soffeld,  2 
sonn  of  William  Deane,  the  sonn  &  heir  of  John  Deane  of  Tomworth  in  Billiugton,  in  the  p’ish  of 
Blaekborne  in  Com.  Lanck ,  gent.:  dated  the  8  of  May  1 577-” 


Anne,  d.  of  Sr  John  Went-— William  Deane,  nf  Dean  shall  in=pAnne,  d.  of  Thomas  Egerton  of  Wal¬ 


worth  of  Codhain  in  com. 
Essex,  and  his  coheire,  wid- 
dow  of  Hugh  Rich  and  the 
lord  Matreuers,  1  wiffe. 
Harl.  MS.  1542.  Ob.  1580. 


Great  Maplested  in  Essex,  Esqr, 
sonn  and  lieire  to  his  ffatherand 
brother  John.  Harl.  MS.  1542. 
Son  of  William  Deane  of  Lancas- 
shire.  Harl.  MS.  1432. 


legrange  in  com,  Suffolk.  2  wiffe. 
Harl.  MS.  1542.  Of  Wrinhall  in 
Com.  Cestr.  Tyndall  ped.,  Harl. 
M  S.  1 542.  Widow  of  Blith,  Clerk  of 
the  Council  at  York.  Harl.  MS.  1432. 


:Sr  John  Tyndall  of  Much 
Maplested  in  Com.  Essex, 
Knt,one  theMr  of  the  Chan¬ 
cery  Harl.  MS.  1542.  2d 
husbd  ;  Will,  P.C.C.  126 
Cope,  proved  2  Dec.  1616. 


Sr  John  Deane. - 
Knighted  by  K.  James 
1603,  died  1625.  His 
Will.  P.C.C.  57  Hele 
is  dated  9  Feb.  1625; 
prob.1626.  Of  Dynes 
Hall. 


Katherine  Deane, 
borne  1605  ;  died 
1606. 


■Anne,  daughter  of 
S’  Drue  Dr  ary  of 
Riddlesworth,  mar¬ 
ried  1604-  Of 
Riddlesworth.  co. 
Norfolk.  Harl. 
MS.  1432. 


Anne  Deane  of 
Much  Maple¬ 
sted  ;  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  8 
Clarke,  24  J  mie 
1624;  names 
sisterWinthrop 


KachelDeane 
devisee  162t 
of  her  sister 
Anne;  made 
Will  1626, 
P.C.C.  60 
Skinner. 


Deane  Tyndall 
of  Maplested, 
Esqr.  eldest  son 
&  lieire.  Harl. 
M6.1542.  Half 
brother  to  Sir 
John  Deane. 


Arthur,  ob.  s  p. 
Harl.  MS.  1542. 
deviseeof  Anne 
Deane,  his  half 
sister. 

Roger,  ob.  s  p. 


Margaret,  vx.  John 
Winthrop  of  Gro- 
tou  in  Suffolk, 
Esq. ;  devisee  1624 
of  Anu  Deane. 
His  3d  wife  ;  she 
ob.  1647. 


Anne  Deane,  born  1607,  was  married  to  Antony 
Wingfield,  baronet  [ Married  Jan!)  1,  J62S ] 
Sr  Anthony  Wingfield  of  Letheringham  in  com- 
Suffolk.  Harl.  MS.  1542.  See  Burke’s 
“  Extinct  Baronetage,” 


Elizabeth 

Deane, 

Borne 

1609. 


Dorcas 

Deane, 

Berne 

1615. 


- i 

Frances 

Deane, 

Borne 

1617. 


DeaneWinthrop.young- 
erson  .  bapt  at  Groton 
in  Suffolk  23  Mar.  1622; 
died  at  Boston  in  New 
England  16Marchl704, 
aged  81. 


Mildred 

Deane, 

Borne 

1619. 


Lucy,  daughter  of  Sr  George  Goring, Drue  Deane  1606,  Knighted  1607 Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sr  Tho. 


Knt,"ftcrmade  L.  Goring,  and  by  Charles 
after  he  left  the  l'arl'et,  E.  of  Norwich. 
Baron  Goring  of  Hurstpierpoint.  Harl. 
MS.  1542. 


of  Greate  Maplestead  in  com. Essex,  Wing f eld,  Knt.  [his  21  lady] 
Knt..  one  of  the  Justices  of  the  Sister  to  Sir  Anthony 
Peace  in  this  County,  1634.  Harl.  Wingfield,  Anne  Deane’s 
MS.  1542.  Will,  14  Sept.  1638.  husband. 


— I 

John 

Deane, 

Berne 

1610. 


1 .  John  Deane, 
about  6  yere  old, 
1634.  Ob.  s.p. 


2.  Anthony  Deane  of  3.  Drew 

Dynes  Hall,  co  Essex,  Deane. 

Esq. ,  eldest  surviving 
son  ;  heir  to  his  father 


- i — 

Anne. 


— P 

Elizabeth,  mar.  John  Tyndal 
of  Great  Maplestead,  Esq., 
2d  son  and  ultimately  heir 
of  Deane  Tyndal. 


Hatnsborougl). 


The  family  of  Rainsborougli  or  Rainborough,  often  spelled  Rainborow,  so  prominently  associated 
with  the  naval  service  of  the  Stuart  period  and  with  the  army  of  the  Commonwealth,  is  believed  to 
have  originated  in  Suffolk,  though  proof  is  wanting.  The  distinguished  naval  commander  William 
Rainsborough,  whose  successful  expedition  against  Salee  is  a  matter  of  history,  was  M.P.  for  the 
Suffolk  sea-port  of  Aldborough  in  1640,  and  his  father,  Thomas  Rainborow  of  East  Greenwich,  is. 
supposed  to  have  been  grandson  to  the  Thomas  Raynburghe  of  Ipswich,  who  made  his  will  in  1544. 
There  was  active  communication  between  these  two  ports  in  Tudor  days,  and  the  name,  an  unusual 
one,  disappeared  from  the  one  place  a  little  before  it  is  found  in  the  records  of  the  other.  For 
much  valuable  information  relative  to  this  family  and  the  correction  of  various  errors  which  had 
found  their  way  into  print,  see  the  “New  England  Genealogical  Register,”  Vol.  xl,  pp.  158 — 171. 


Mill  ri:  Kntet  Kamborolu,  1535. 

The  xxiij  daye  of  Julie  in  the  yere  of  our  lorde  god  m1  cccccxxxiii*1  I  Robert  Rayneborowe 
of  Gosbeck  in  the  countye  of  Suff.  ordeyne  this  my  last  wyll.  To  Agnes  my  wiff  all  my  goods. 
To  said  Agnes  my  tente  in  Gosbeck  which  I  now  dwell  in  wvth  all  the  lands  belongen  for  the 
terme  of  hir  naturall  liff.  To  the  said  Agnes  my  wyff  my  tents  and  lands  in  Ashe  for  lyff. 
I  woll  after  the  decese  of  Agnes  my  wyff  Jaffrye  my  son  have  the  said  tents  &  lands  in  Gosbeck 
to  him  and  his  heirs  of  his  bodye.  After  the  decese  of  saide  Agnes  my  wyff  I  woll  that 
Thomas  Rayneborowe  my  yonger  sonne  haue  all  my  howsen  and  lands  in  Ashe  to  him  and  to 
his  heirs  of  his  bodye  laufullie  begotten  for  ever.  If  Jaffrye  decese  wythout  issewe  I  woll  the 
forsaide  tent  in  Gosbeck  wlall  the  lands  the  forsaid  Thomas  my  yonger  sonne  enioye  them.  I 
orden  Agnes  my  wyff  and  Thomas  my  sonne  the  yonger  executors,  they  to  dispose  the  residewe 
of  my  goods  to  the  most  plesure  of  god  and  welthe  of  my  sowle.  Probatum  apud  Gippewicum 
octavo  die  Octobr  1550  executrici,  Thoma  Raynborow  in  eadih  testamento  etiam  nominator  ante 
onus  exequitionis  eiusdfh  viam  vniilse  carnis  ingresso,  &c. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  “  Coraunte,”  fo.  79. 


156 


SUFFOLK  MANOR' AL  FAMILIES. 


®tll  of  Sljomas  Jiambarmtgli,  1544, 

The  xxvijth  daye  of  .Tatmarye  m1  cccccxliiij'1  Thomas  Raynburghe  of  Ippesvvicli  clothyer.  I 
eomende  my  soule  into  th’ands  of  all  myghtie  god  my  Creator  &  Redemor  and  my  body  to  be 

buryed  in  the  chercbe  yard  of  Saynt  Nycholas  pishe  in  Ippeswiche  aforsaid.  Itm  I  bequethe  to 

Syr  John  Hopson  pisslie  prest  of  the  said  pisshe  for  his  paynes  takyn  abonght  me  vis  iiijd. 

Itm  to  Anne  my  wyf  pownds  at.  Itm  I  will  that  my  houshold  stuff  be  equally  devyded  in 

thre  ptis,  wherof  thone  pte  I  gyf  to  the  said  Anne  and  thother  ij  equallye  to  my  sonys  Thomas 

&  Jamys.  Itm  I  gif  to  the  said  Anne  my  bowse  wherin  I  nowe  do  dwell  vntyll  my  said  son 

Jamys  com  to  thage  of  xxij  yers.  And  when  my  son  Jamys  is  coin  to  the  said  age,  said  Jamys 
to  liolde  said  bowse  for  hym  his  heyers  for  evyr.  Itm  to  said  son  Jamys  xxts  u  &  my  closse  & 
orteyard  in  Darye  lane.  Itm  I  gif  to  Thomas  my  son  xlu  sterlyng.  My  howse  in  Saynt  Georgis 
lane  to  be  sold.  Yf  botlie  my  sonys  dye  before  the  tyme  aboue  expressyd  than  my  said  howse 
shall  remayn  to  my  wyf  hyr  heyers  &  assign  for  eS.  Itm  I  gif  to  my  ii  dougtthers  Elyzabethe 
<fc  Marge  rye  xx1'  equallye  to  be  devyded  among  p  them.  I  giff  to  Jaffry  Watwytt  vis  viijd.  Itm 
I  bequeth  to  myn  owyn  mother  xxs  &  a  gown  clothe  of  the  best  pnke.  Itm  I  gif  to  Jafferye 

&  Thomas  my  brotherh  eclie  of  them  a  cote  clothe  the  pfc  xs  a  cote.  Itm  to  my  brother  in 

lawe  a  coobard,  a  cote  clothe  &  to  his  wyf  a  gown  clothe.  The  resydue  of  all  my  goodes  I 
put  to  the  dyspocoh  of  the  said  Anne  my  wyf,  whom  I  make  my  executors  vvyth  Rychard  Bloysse, 
gevyn  hym  for  his  labor  a  gowne  clothe  of  my  best  pnke.  Probatum  xxi  die  Martij  1544  Anne 
lelicto  r’esuata  ptate  Rico  Bloyse. 

Arch.  Suff.  Book  No.  15,  fo.  61b. 


Mill  of  William  Kahtsborouglj,  165S. 

William  Rainborov  of  London  Esquire.  I  bequeth  my  bodie  to  the  ground  and  my  soule 
to  my  Saviour  Jesus  Christ  To  the  hamblett  of  Wapping  fyftie  pounds  for  a  stocke  for  their 
pooro.  To  the  hamblett  of  White  Chappell  tenn  pounds  to  their  poore.  To  the  Trinity  House 
ffyftie  pounds  with  condicoh  that  they  giue  to  poore  Seamen  or  their  widdowes  of  the  hamblet 
of  Wapping  every  Sf  Thomas  day  ffortie  shillings.  To  my  eldest  sonne  Thomas  Rainborowe  my 
houses  in  Southwark.  To  my  sonne  William  Rainborowe  my  houses  in  Gun  alley  in  Wapping 
purchased  of  my  ffather  in  lawe  Renold  Hoxton  and  alsoe  one  thousand  pound  in  money.  To  my 
sonne  Edward  Raineborowe  twelve  hundred  pounds.  To  my  daughter  Martha  Coytmore  the  wife 
of  Thomas  Coytemore  now  in  new  England  the  some  of  seaven  hundred  pounds,  yf  she  be  alive 
at  the  tyme  of  my  death.  To  my  daughter  Judeth  Rainboiowe  one  thousand  pounds.  To  my 
daughter  Joane  Raineborowe  one  thousand  pounds.  To  the  sonnes  and  daughter  of  my  deceased 
sister  Sara  Port,  namely  Robert,  John,  Thomas  and  William  Porte  and  Martha  Porte,  two  hundred 
and  ffyftie  pounds.  To  my  brother  Mr  Thomas  Rainborowe  ffyftie  pounds.  To  my  sister 
Buckridge  ffiftie  pounds.  To  my  sister  Wood  ffyftie  pounds.  To  my  ffather  in  lawe  Renold 
Hoxton  and  to  my  mother  in  lawe  Joane  Hoxton  tenn  pounds  a  peece  to  buy  them  each  a  ringe. 
I  make  my  loveing  sonnes  Thomas  and  William  Rainborowe  executors  and  appoint  them  to  bring 
vp  my  younger  children  to  the  age  of  twenty  one  years  or  daie  of  marriage.  And  for  Ou] seers 


RAINSBOROUGH. 


157 


I  desire  my  loveing  brothers  in  lawe  Mr  Robert  Wood  and  Mr  John  Hoxton.  This  sixteenth  of 
July  1638.  I  give  to  my  mother  in  lawe  Jone  Hoxton  my  house  at  Wapping  now  in  the 
occupacon  of  Mr  Sander  Bence  dureing  her.  nrall  life  and  bequeath  to  my  grandchild  Wm  Rainborowe 
the  some  of  one  hundred  pounds. 

A  Codicil.  William  Rainborowe  did  about  a  yeare  since  and  att  other  tymes  declare  that 
Martha  Port  should  not  expect  the  ffyftie  pounds  legacie,  because  he  had  given  her  the  ffyftie 
pounds  and  all  her  wedding  clothes  in  marriage  wth  William  Ashley.  The  first  day  of  ffebruarie 
1641  wee  the  wittnesses  have,  subscribed  our  names  John  Hoxton,  Thom:  Hoxton,  Mary  Bennfes. 
Probatmn  octauo  die  Aprilis  1642  juramentis  Thome  Rainborowe  et  W  ilium  Rainborowe  filiorp. 

P.C.C.  51  Campbell. 

It  is  stated  in  the  Essex  Visitation  of  1664  that  Robert  Wood  of  London,  Merchant,  married 
Martha,  daughter  of  William  Rainsborough.  This  statement  involves  genealogical  difficulties,  but 
we  seem,  in  the  “loveing  brother  in  lawe  Mr  Robert  Wood”  abovemen tioned,  to  have  the  husband 
of  the  “  Martha  Rainsborough  ”  of  the  heraldic  MS. 


^ak  of  Suffolk  Hanks,  1652. 

This  is  the  finall  agreem1  made  in  the  Court  of  the  Common  Bench  at  WestmT  from  Easter 

day  in  fifteene  dayes  in  the  yeare  or  Lord  1652,  Before  Oliver  S1  John,  John  Puliston,  Peter 

Warburton  &  Edward  Atkyns,  Justices  &  others  psent,  Betweene  Arthur  Jenney  Esq1',  Ralph  Noore, 
Robert  Woodside  &  William  Hayle  plts  and  William  Raineborow  Esqr  &  IMargery  his  wife  & 

Thomasine  Jenney  deforceants  of  one  messuage,  one  garden,  foure  acres  of  land  <k  two  acres  of 

pasture  wth  the  apptenncs  in  Grundesburgh.  Wherevpon  a  plea  of  covenant  was  summoned 
betweene  them  in  the  said  court.  That  is  to  say  that  the  aforesaid  William  Rainborow  &  Margery 
cfe  Thomasine  have  acknowledged  aforesaid  tenements  Ac.  to  be  the  right  of  him  the  said  Arthur 
as  the  guift  of  the  aforesaid  William  Rainborow  &  Margery  &  Thomasine,  and  will  warant  to  the 
aforesaid  Arthur  Ac.  the  aforesaid  tenem16.  And  for  this  acknowledgemi,  warranties,  ffine  &  agreenff 
said  Arthur  &c.  have  giuen  ta  the  aforesd  William  Rainborow7  &  Margery  &  Thomasine  fforty  & 
•one  pounds  sterling.  Stiff.  Suffolk  Fine,  Easter,  1652. 


Kahisbormigl)  r.  ISUntijrap,  1680. 

12  June  1680  Edward  Rainborow  of  ye  parish  of  Cranford  co.  Middx  Gent.,  Complaynant. 
•Steuen  Winthrop,  late  of  ye  parish  of  S*  Margaret  Westminster  Esq.  was  seized  of  two  messuages 
and  lands  in  Westminster  aforesaid.  Hee  made  his 'last  will  abought  ye  yeare  1658  &  thereby 
demised  said  premises  to  his  wife  Judith  Winthrop,  and  after  her  decease  to  his  children  equally. 
Said  Steuen  att  his  death  had  diuers  children,  all  of  which  soone  deyed  Avithout  .  ,  .  except 
Margaret  Winthrop  &  Judith  Winthrop  daughters  <fc  coheires  of  said  Stephen.  Judith  Winthrop  ye 
mother  &  her  said  daughters  being  desirous  to  sell  treated  with  your  Orator,  Judith  the  daughter 


158 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


being  vnder  one  &  twenty  though  of  ye  age  of  discression.  An  agreement  redused  into  Articles 
[was]  made  29th  September  16  .  .  .  signed  &  sealed  by  ye  said  Judith  Winthrop  ye  mother  and 
her  daughters  and  your  Orator.  But  your  Orator  hauing  occasion  to  goe  beyound  ye  seas,  they 
ye  said  mother  <fe  daughters  confederating  to  defeet  your  Orator  haue  reentered  into  said  messuages 
&  premices,  it  y°  said  Margaret  hath  intermaried  with  one  Henry  Ward  silk  stocking  weuer  of 
ye  parish  of  Stepney  &  ye  said  Judith  ye  daughter  hath  attained  her  age  of  one  &  twenty  yeares 
&  hath  intermarried  with  one  Richard  Hancock  citten  &  packer  of  London,  and  they  or  one  of 
them  haue  receiued  rents  &  profets  thereof  and  doe  threaten  to  sue  your  Orator  for  two  hundred 
and  fifty  pounds  residue  of  fine  hundred  pounds  for  ye  purshis  of  ye  said  messuages.  Your  Orator 
is  alltogeather  remediles  att  Common  law. 

The  ioynt  and  seuj  all  answere  of  Judith  Winthrop  widow,  Henry  Ward  and  Margaret  his 
wife  &  Richard  Hancocke  and  Judith  his  wife  def63.  Said  Stephen  Winthrop  dyed  the  third  May 
1658  seised  of  said  joAiises.  At  his  death  he  left  three  daughters  (that  is  to  say)  the  defts  Margaret 
Ward,  Judith  Hancocke  &  Johanna  theire  sister  since  dead  without  issue,  coheires  of  theire  said 
father.  Comp16  being  brother  to  the  def6  Judith  the  mother,  and  having  the  management  of  her 
affaires,  to  serve  himself e  did  ptend  to  these  def68  that  they  had  noe  good  title  to  said  messuages, 
and  advised  Judeth  the  mother  to  sell  the  same.  In  a  writing  indented  dated  29th  Septr  1674  and 
mutually  signed,  for  ffive  hundred  pounds,  def68  did  alien  and  confirme  said  messuages  to  comp16,  with 
limittacons  after  expressed.  Judith  the  daughter  was  not  [then]  above  the  age  of  seaventeene  yeares. 
Comp16  did  pave  about  the  eighth  September  1676  the  sum  of  two  hundred  and  ffifty  pounds  in 
parte  of  payment  of  said  ffive  hundred  pounds.  He  hath  neglected  to  paye  the  yearly  siirne  of  ffive 
and  twenty  pounds  (being  a  great  parte  of  this  def63  maintenance).  Comp'6  was  indebted  by  bond 
for  money  formerly  borrowed,  and  vpon  account  to  Judith  the  mother.  The  def6  [has]  noe  counter- 
parte  or  coppie  of  the  deed.  The  pdnisses  were  worth  more  than  ffive  hundred  pounds. 

Chancery  Proceedings,  Bridges  IV,  No.  546. 


Hatnborolb  of  ismffolfi. 

John  Reyneborow  of  Ashbocking,  co.  Suffolk.  Will,=p 
Arch.  Sufi.  1  Jan.  7  1498  ;  proved  19  Jan.  1512. 


i - r 

Robert  Rayueborowe  of  Gosbeek,  co.  Suffolk.=f=Agnes,  named.  1533.  in  her  Margaret,  1498.  She  probably  married  .  .  . 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norwic.  23  July  1533  ;  proved  |  husband’s  will,  which  she  Watwytt,  and  had  issue  Elizabeth,  Margery 
8  Oct.  1550.  Lands  in  Ashbocking.  i  proved  in  1550  and  Jeffery  Watwytt,  who  were  living  1544. 


Jaffrye  Rainborow,  son  and  heir  Thomas  Rainborow  Thomas  Raiuborowe,  the  younger,  of  Ipswich,  clothier, =f=Anne. 

1533;deviseeof  Tlios. Rainborowe,  the  elder,  living  27  Jan.  1544  when  he  made  will  proved  21  March  1544, 

the  younger,  his  brother,  1544.  1544.  Arch.  Sufi. 


Tlios.  Rainborow,  elder  son  1544,  mar.  at  James  Rainborow,  younger  son  1 544,  Rainborouc/he  c.  Elizabeth,  Margery, 

St.  Nicholas,  Ipswich,  1554,  Elizabeth  Some,  Chanc.  Proc.  Series  ii..  and  Rnynebnrowfih.  v.  1544.  1544. 

Sanders.  He  seems  to  have  died  s.p.  Gnodwyn,  Town  Depcous,  35, 18.  Heir  to  his  brother 

Thomas  1501. 

The  Consistory  Court  at  Norwich  has  the  will  of  a  Wm.  Rammysbury  or  Rauusburgh  1523,  who  does  not 
seem  to  be  connected  with  the  Ashbocking  Raiuborows. 


R  A INSBOKOUGH. 


159 


Matnsborougl)  of  €a0t  <@reentotcf). 


Thomas  Rainsborough  of  East  Greenwich, =j=Martha  Moole,  married  at  Whitechapel,  co. 
co.  Kent,  a  sea  captain  ;  Will  P.C.C  8  |  Middx.,  11  Nov.  1582  ;  made  Will  as  Martha 
Byrd,  4  Dec.  1622,  proved  23  Feb.  1623.  1  Rdnboroweof  St.  Bride’s,  Fleet  St.,  London, 


Had  lease  of  Claver  Hanbury  in  Waltham, 
co.  Essex,  1619. 


widow.  29  Nov.  1626,  P.CC.  102  St.  John 
prob.  23  Sept.  1631. 


Barbara,  bapt. 
at  Whitechapel 
1583:  mar.Tho- 
masLee,  Citizen 
and  Armourer 
of  London,  and 
afterwards  to 
. .  .  Buckridge ; 
devisee  1638  of 
Wm.  Rains¬ 
borough,  her 
brother. 


Martha,  bapt.  1589; 
mar.  Anthony  Wood 
of  Redrith,  co  Sur¬ 
rey.  Mariner,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C  4 
Hele,  13  Aug.  1625. 
See  Essex  Visitation 
1664,  edited  by  Dr. 
Howard,  for  mar¬ 
riage  of  a  Maitha 
Rainsborough  with 
Robert  Wood. 


William  Rainsborough  of : 
London,  Esq  ,  R  N.  ;  Will, 
P.C.C.  51  Cainpl  ell,  16  July 
1638,  proved  8  April  1642  : 
bapt.  at  Whitechapel  1 1  July 
1587  ;of  Wapping,co. Middx  , 

1 624;  of  Southwold:  co.  Suf¬ 
folk  1636.  Commanded  the 
expedition  against  Salee, 
1637.  M.  P. for  Aldbo rough, 
Suffolk.  1640-2;  buriedin  St. 
Katherine's  by  the  Tower, 
17  Feb.  1642. 


J  udith,dau. 
of  Reynold 
and  Joan 
Hoxton  of 
Wapping, 
co.  Middx., 
where  she 
was  buried 
3  March 
1637. 


Sarah,  ux. 
Francis  Porte 
and  had  issue; 
she  was  dead 
1638,  leaving 
children,  de¬ 
visees  of  Wil¬ 
liam  Rains¬ 
borough,  their 
uncle. 


ThomasRains-r 
borough  of 
East  Green¬ 
wich,  gent  ; 
Will,  P.C.C. 

7  Eure,  24 
Nov.  1668, 
proved  2  Jan. 
1671  ;  no  sur¬ 
viving  issue. 


=Mary  ... 
a  widow, 
11  Feb. 
1677, 
when  she 
made  Will 
P.C  C. 37 
Reeve  ; 
prob.  9 
April 
1678  ;  ob. 
s.p. 


I 


Thomas  Coy tmore  of q- Martha,  bapt.  at=Jobn  V  inthrop, 
Wappinginco.Middx,  I  Whitechapel.  20  Apl.  Govern- t  of  Massa 
1 617;  became  2d  wife 
of  Thos.  Coytmore. 

1635  ;  and  4th  wife  of 
John  W  inthrop,  1647; 
renupt  1651  John 
,1  Coggan  of  Boston, 

1st  husband.  Wrecked  I  Mass.;  left  issue  by 
on  the  Coast  of  Spain  I  1st  and  3d  husband  ; 

27  Dec.  1644.  j  d.  1658. 

/K 


and  Charlestown, 
N.E..  Mariner,  to 
whom  Rowland  Coyt- 
more,  his  father,  left 
his  lands  in  Prittle- 
well,  &c.,  co.  Essex 


chusetts,  2d  hus¬ 
band  For  his  three 
previous  marriages 
see  Winthrop  Pedi¬ 
grees,  pp.  25-28. 


Judith.bapt. at  Wap¬ 
ping  in  sept.  1614  ; 
mar.  circa  1 644  Ste¬ 
phen  Winthrop,  af¬ 
terward  Colonel  in 
the  Parliamentary 
army  and  M.P  He 
was  of  Groton,  co. 
Suffolk  in  1651  & 
of  Westminster, 
1658.  See  p.  26. 


Joan,  mar.  John  Cham¬ 
berlain.  a  captain  under 
thel’arliamentand  after¬ 
wards  a  brewer  at  Dept¬ 
ford  ;  devisee  1668  of 
her  uncle,  Thomas  liain- 
borough.  Her  dau , 
Judith  Chamberlain  is 
named  1658  in  the  will 
of  Stephen  Winthrop. 


— n 
Samuel 
&  Rey¬ 
nold, 
seem 
both  to 
have 
died 
young. 


1.  Thomas  Kains-=j=Margaret 
borough  of  \\  liite-  to  whom 
chapel,  Esq  ,  Col.  her  hus- 
of  Infantry  under  band’s 
the  Parliament  &  goods 
finally  Vice-Admi-  |  were 
ral  of  the  Fleet  ;  ,  adminis- 


2.  William  Kainsbor — Margery  Jenney.  of  the 
ough  of  Fulham,  co.  Suffolk  family  of  that 


3.  Edward  Rainsbor-=j=Christian,  sister 


a  Member  of  the 
Long  Parliament. 
Admon  P  C  C.  24 
Nov.  1618. 


tei  ed 
1648. 


Middx.,  Esq.,  1649, 
previously  of  Charles¬ 
town, N.E..  aCol.  in  the 
Parliamentary  Army. 
El  ad  lands  in  Grundis- 
burgh.  co.  Suffolk,  1652. 
BouglitHigham  Ferrers 
I  ark,  co.  Northampton, 
t  lose  Hulls.  1650  &  1 657. 


name  ;  mar.  at  Wood- 
bridge.  9  June  1642  ; 
joined  her  husband  and 
her  sister,  Thoinasine 
Jenney  in  sale  of  lands 
in  Grundisburgh  to 
Arthur  Jenney,  Esq. 
Fine,  Easter,  1652. 


ough  of  Cranford,  co. 
Middx ,  gent. ;  Will. 
P.C.C.  62  Cottle,  14 
Sept  1677, proved  4  May 
1682.  Hepurchasedl674 
houses  in  Westminster 
of  the  heirs  of  Stephen 
Winthrop,  his  late  bro¬ 
ther-in-law.  llainburnw 
e.  Winthrop,  Bridges, 
IV,  546. 


1677  to  Mrs.  Sa¬ 
rah  Mackworth  of 
Shrewsbury.  Ur¬ 
sula,  doubtless  a 
second  wife,  is 
named  in  Rain- 
bnrowc.  Cartwrigh  t, 
1 690.  She  remar¬ 
ried  ...Cartwright, 
Esq. 


j 


William  Rainsborough.  eldest  son,  devisee  of 
his  grandfather,  163>.  and  of  his  uncleEdward, 
1677  ;  Captain  in  the  1 'arliamentary  Army  ; 
of  Boston  in  New  England  1673  ;  living  1687. 


Mary  Rainsborouph, 
devisee  of  Stephen 
Winthrop  in  1658. 


Mytton  Rainsborough,  son  and  JudithRains- 

heir,  1677  ;  plaintiff  1690  in  Rain-  borough, 
boruw  c.  Cartwright,  Collins,  II,  1677. 

470. 


3Heatie  of  (Wtrfoforti. 


ffitill  of  ®Ijomas  CfDooko,  1621. 

The  thirtye  daye  of  August  1621.  Thomas  Cooke  the  elder  of  Pebmshe  in  the  county 
of  Essex  yeoman  beinge  of  good  and  pfect  remembraunce  (thancks  be  given  vmo  Almighty  god) 
doe  make  my  pnte  will.  I  giue  vnto  the  poore  people  of  Pebulshe  five  pounds  to  be  paide 
vnto  them  at  the  daie  of  my  deathe.  Vnto  the  poore  of  Alphi^ston  and  LarSshe  to  either  of  the 
sume  pishes  tenn  shillings  a  peice.  Vnto  the  poore  of  the  said  pishe  of  Pebmshe,  as  an  addicon 
to  the  stock  of  twentye  pounds  given  by  Mr  Luke  Claphfn  some  time  minister  of  the  pishe, 
to  the  intente  that  the  pishioners  should  [icliase  a  house  or  lands  to  the  vse  and  behalfe  of  the 
poore  for  ever,  the  some  of  ffive  pounds.  Vnto  Thomas  Cooke  my  grandchild  my  messuage 
called  Goddards  and  all  my  lands  in  Gestingthorpe  and  litle  Maplested.  Vnto  my  brothers  Lawrence 
Cook  and  Robt  Cook  ffortie  shillings  a  peece  yearelye  duringe  their  naturall  lives.  Vnto  Thomas 
Wistowe  the  younger  my  sisters  sonue.  Vnto  the  children  of  my  brother  John  Cooke  deceased, 
my  sister  Wistowe  &  sister  Sawen  deceased,  and  my  brother  Lawrences  not  before  noinated. 
Vnto  George  Cook  my  graunchild  my  interest  &  terme  of  yeares  in  lands  in  Lamshe.  I  doe 
forgive  vnto  Edmunde  Reade  my  sonne  in  lawe  the  some  of  threescore  pounds  due  vnto  me  by 
his  bill  bearinge  date  the  first  daye  of  December  1606.  I  gene  vnto  my  daughter  Elizabeth 
now  wife  of  the  said  Edmunde  the  some  of  threescore  pounds.  Vnto  my  said  daughter  Elizabeth 
and  vnto  Margarett  her  daughter  now  wife  of  John  Lake  &  vnto  Suzan  now  wife  of  Thoms 

Cooke  my  sonne,  vnto  everie  of  them  one  spur  riall  of  gould.  Vnto  Samuell  Reade  my  grand- 

childe  ffortye  pounds  and  vnto  eiilie  of  the  residue  of  my  daughter  Reads  children  vnmarried 
tenn  pounds  a  p*ece.  Vnto  everie  of  the  children  of  Thomas  Cook  my  sonne  twentie  pounds 
a  peece.  The  residue  of  my  goods  I  giue  vnt  >  Thomas  Cooke  the  younger  my  sonne,  who  I 
make  my  sole  executor.  I  giue  vnto  Martha  Reade  now  wiffe  of  .  .  .  Epps  of  London  my 
graundchild  tenn  pounds  To  Thomas  Maninge,  Thomas  French  and  Richard  Goodwyn  two  shillings 
six  pence  a  peece. 

Probatum  vicesimo  primo  die  Novembris  1621  juramento  Thome  Cooke  j unions  filij  defuncti. 

P.C.C.,  94  Dale. 

Thomas  Cooke,  the  testator,  was  grandfather  of  Colonel  Thomas  Cooke,  M.P.  for  Essex  in 
1654,  whose  will  is  given  at  page  80.  According  to  the  pedigree  entered  in  the  Essex  Visitations 
( Harl .  MSS.  10SS,  1187  and  llf.32)  he  had  three  wives — Susan,  daughter  of  .  .  .  Brand  of 
Boxford  in  Suffolk,  the  mother  of  his  children ;  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  ,  .  .  North  of  Colchester ; 

and  Margaret,  daughter  of  .  .  .  Rice  of  Bures  St.  Mary  in  Suffolk.  Particulars  of  his  family 

and  descendants  will  be  found  in  the  Histories  of  Essex  by  Morant  and  Wright. 


READE  OF  WICKFORD. 


161 


®tll  of  ®imunt&  IUak,  16^25- 

In  y°  name  of  God  Amen,  ye  20th  day®  of  November  in  ye  vearc  of  our  Lord  one  thousand 

Six  hundred  and  [twenty]  thre  I  Edmand  Reade,  &c.  Item,  I  give  &  bequeth  unto  ye  Poore  of 

Wickford  twenty  shillings  of  Lawfull  English  mony  to  be  payde  to  ym  by  my  Ex  ecu  to™  with  in 
one  Month  next  after  my  dicease  :  Item,  I  give  &  bequeth  unto  John  Weald  my  Servant  five- 
pounds  of  Lawfull  english  money  to  be  Payde  to  him  within  one  yeare  after  my  decease :  Item, 

I  give  &  bequeth  unto  every  one  of  my  other  Servants  two  shillings  a  Peece  to  Be  payde  to  ym 

within  one  Month  after  my  decease :  Item,  I  give  &  bequeth  unto  William  Reade  my  son  and  to 
my  daughter  Reade  forty  shillings  apeece  to  Bye  ym  Rings  :  Item,  I  give  &  bequeath  unto  Elizabeth 
my  Loving  Wife  all  those  Leases  which  I  have  of  Mr  Edward  Syliarde  &  Mr  George  White ;  and 
allsoe  ye  Messages  and  Tenaments  or  Lands  theireunto  belonging  which  I  lately  Purchased  of 
Mr  Cockerum  now  in  ye  Tenor  &  occupation  of  John  Tyle  or  his  assignes  for  &  during  ye  Tearme 
of  her  Naturall  Life  ;  and  after  her  dicease,  I  give  &  bequeath  all  ye  sd  Leases  Messages  or 
Teniments  and  ye  lands  above  spesifyed  unto  William  Reade  my  son  upon  ye  Condition  y*  he  ye 
sd  William  my  son  shall  with  in  forty  dayes  next  after  my  deth  enter  into  bond  to  Elizabeth 
my  sd  Loving  Wife  in  ye  full  som  of  4001  y®  he  ye  sd  William  rny  soil  shail  paye  unto  my  soil 
Thomas  Reade  within  fourescore  dayes  after  y*  decease  of  my  sd  Loving  Wife,  if  he  ye  sd  Thomas 
be  yn  Living  or  otherwise  to  his  Children  if  he  have  any  then  Living  ye  full  sum  of  2401  of 

Lawfull  english  mony,  and  if  my  sd  son  William  shall  Refuse  to  enter  into  Bond  to  my  sd 

Loving  Wife  as  aforesaide  ;  yn  my  minde  and  Will  is  y®  my  sd  son  Thomas  Reade  shall  Presantly 
after  ye  dicease  of  my  sd  Loving  Wife,  enter  into  ye  aforesd  leases  &  Lands ;  and  allsoe  into  ye 
aforesd  Messages  or  Teniments  with  ye  apertinances  and  Lands  theireunto  belonging,  to  have  and 
enjoye  to  him  ye  sd  Thomas  Reade  or  ye  eyres  of  his  Body  Lawfully  begotten  and  for  Want  of 
such  Issue  yn  to  Remayne  to  my  son  William  Reade  and  his  Eyres  for  ever  :  Item,  I  give  & 
bequeth  unto  Samuell  my  second  son  &  to  ye  eyres  of  his  body  Lawfully  begotten  ;  y®  my  Message 
or  Teniment  with  ye  appertenances  &  Lands  theireunto  belonging,  Called  or  Knowne  by  ye  name 
of  Sopers  or  by  what  soever  Name  or  names  ye  same  be  Calld  or  Knowne ;  now  in  ye  Tenor  & 
occupation  of  George  Ballard  or  his  assignes ;  and  if  ye  sd  Samuell  my  son  shall  fortune  to  depart 
ys  life  without  Eyres  of  his  body  lawfully  begotten  ;  yn  my  minde  and  Will  is  y®  Thomas  my 
aforesd  son  shall  enter  into  ye  Messages  &  Lands  aforesd  to  have  and  enjoye  ym  to  him  or  ye  eyres 

of  his  Body  lawfully  begotten  ;  and  for  Want  of  such  Issue  unto  William  Reade  my  sd  soil  and 

to  his  eyres  for  ever  :  Provided  alhvayes  y®  if  ye  sd  Message  or  Teniment  and  lands  theireunto 
belonging  Called  Sopers  herein  and  hereby  formerly  given  &  bequethed  unto  Samuell  my  son  shall 
hapen  to  Com  to  William  my  son  in  Maner  &  forme  as  aforesaid:  yn  I  Will  y®  my  said  son 
William  shall  within  one  Month  yn  next  enter  into  bond  to  my  Executor  herein  and  hereby  nominated 
(If  she  be  yn  Living)  or  otherwise  to  ye  overseers  of  this  my  last  Will  &  Testiment  herein 
Nominated  in  ye  Penall  som  of  600‘  with  Condition  to  paye  300'  of  Lawfull  english  mony  in  maner 
&  forme  followinge  :  (that  is  to  saye)  unto  John  Lake  and  Anna  Lake  two  of  my  Grand  Children  : 
501  a  peece  :  &  to  Daniell  Epps  &  Elizabeth  Epps  two  other  of  my  Grand  Children  :  501  a  peece 
and  to  Elizabeth  my  Daughter:  1001  of  lawfull  english  mony  within  one  yeare  next  after  ye  sd 
Message  or  Teniment  &  ye  lands  theireunto  belonging  Called  Soppers,  shall  hapen  to  Com  to  my 
sd  son  William  in  Maner  &  forme  as  aforesaide  and  if  my  sd  son  William  shall  Refuse  to  enter 
bond  in  Maner  &  forme  as  is  aforesaide  then  I  will  y®  all  those  Messages  lands  &  teniments 
Called  Sopers  shall  be  and  Remayne  unto  my  aforesaid  Grand  Chilldren,  and  to  ye  Residue  of  my 
Grand  Children  of  all  my  Daughters,  and  to  Elizabeth  my  youngest  Daughter  equally  to  be  divided 
amongst  ym  and  if  my  sd  Grand  Children  shall  hapen  to  dye  before  the  sd  Legasye  shall  be  due, 
yn  my  minde  &  Will  is  y®  ye  saide  Legasye  shall  Ineur  to  my  two  Daughters  ye  Mothers,  and 

W 


162 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Ti-ovided  allsoe  yfc  if  Samuell  my  son  hapen  to  depart  this  life  without  Issue  of  his  body  lawfully 
begotten,  and  that  Thomas  my  soii  enjoye  ve  sd  lands  ifc  teniments  aforesd  and  to  him  in  and 
by  this  my  last  Will  ifc  testiment  bequethed ;  then  my  minde  and  will  is  that  those  leases  lands 
and  Messages  with  y9  lands  theireunto  belonging  which  is  before  given  unto  my  saide  son  Thomas 
shall  Presently  Ineur  and  Com  to  my  saide  son  William  lleade  and  to  his  eyres  for  ever  without 
paying  ye  foresaide  som  of  240'  unto  Thomas  Reade  my  son  or  any  part  theirof  in  maner  and 

forme  as  is  aforesaide.  Item,  I  give  and  bequeth  unto  my  saide  Loving  Wife  y®  lease  of  Frearne 

and  all  ye  time  and  tearme  to  Com  and  unexpired  for  and  towards  ye  Mayntenance  and  education 
and  bringing  up  of  Thomas  Reade  my  third  son  :  Item,  I  give  and  bequeth  unto  my  son  in  Law 
John  Lake  and  to  my  Daughter  Margaret  Lake,  forty  shillings  apeece  to  make  ym  Rings  and  to 
John  Lake  and  Anna  Lake  theire  Children  20s1'  apeece  :  Item  I  give  and  bequeth  unto  Daniell 
Epps  &  Martha  Epps  my  Daughter  40Btl  apeece  to  make  ym  Rings  &  to  Elizabeth  Epps  & 
Daniell  Epps  theire  Children  20sil  apeece :  Item,  I  give  and  bequeth  unto  Elizabeth  my  Daughter 
2001  of  Lawfull  mony  of  englande  to  be  payde  unto  her  at  her  full  age  of  20  yeares.  Item,  I 
give  &  bequeth  unto  my  Brother  John  Reade  ye  sum  of  five  pounds  to  be  payde  to  him  within 
one  whole  yeare  next  after  my  Dicease  :  Item,  I  give  and  bequeath  unto  my  son  William  my 

young  graye  Guilding  now  in  ye  Custo  lye  of  my  Kinsman  John  Reade :  all  ye  Residue  of  my 

Goods  Chattells  and  Mooveables  what  soever,  I  give  and  bequeth  unto  Elizabeth  my  said  Loving 

Wife,  who  I  make  and  ordayne  my  sole  executrix  of  this  my  last  Will  and  testiment ;  and  I  doe 

nominate  and  appoynt  James  Lawrence  of  Cliffords  Inn  Gentillman  and  John  Reade  of  Pitsaye  my 

Kinsmen  overseers  of  this  my  last  Will  and  testiment,  and  doe  hereby  give  y,G  thre  powmd  six 

shillings  &  aight  pence  apeece  to  be  payde  to  ym  by  my  saide  executrix,  Intreating  ym  to  be 
ayding  and  assisting  my  sd  loving  Wife  to  se  this  my  last  Will  and  tesiment  duly  and  truly 
executed  &  performed  according  to  my  Tntent  and  true  meaning  herein  and  hereby  set  down  and 
declared.  In  Witness  whereof,  I  the  saide  Edmand  Reade,  have  set  my  hand  to  every  severall 
lease  and  my  ^eale  to  ym  all  fixed  together,  and  doe  deliver  ye  same  into  y®  hands  of  my  Loving 
Wife  my  saide  executrix  this  20th  daye  of  November  in  the  21st  yeare  of  ye  Kings  Majestyes  Raigne 
that  now  is  and  in  anno  Domini  1623.  Edmand  Reade. 

Sealed  &  delivered  in  y®  Presence  of  Edmand  Lamb  :  Edward  Epps. 

Rob1  Marrable  his  Marke  he  is  Mr  Thomas  Lakes  Man.  Vera  Copia  From  Coll.  Reade. 

This  will,  found  among  the  Winthrop  Papers,  has  been  printed  in  the  Proceedings  of  the 
Massachusetts  Historical  Society  for  1862,  and  also  by  Mr.  W.  S.  Appleton  in  his  “Ancestry 
of  Priscilla  Baker,”  but  both  volumes  are  now  very  rare. 


Mill  of  Sljomas  1653. 

The  one  and  twenthth  day  of  October  1633  I  Thomas  Aleyn  of  Braughin  in  the  countye 
of  Hertf  gent,  ordayne  this  my  last  will.  First  1  bequeath  my  Soule  into  the  hands  of  my 
Lord  and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ.  I  give  vnto  my  daughter  Reade  ffifty  pounds.  Ynto  my  god- 
sonne  Aleyn  Reade  twenty  pounds  to  be  payd  him  at  the  age  of  eightene  yeares.  Ynto  Anne 
Reade  and  Jane  Reade  my  grandchildren  to  either  of  them  fourty  pounds  att  their  severall  ages 
of  eightene  yeares  or  dayes  of  maryage  which  shall  first  happen.  I  give  vnto  my  brother 
William  Aleyn  ffive  pounds,  vnto  my  brother  John  Aleyn  fourty  shillings,  to  my  sister  Colvile 
forty  shillings,  to  my  nephew  Francis  Aleyn  of  Haurelts  ffive  pounds.  Itrh  to  my  nephewe  Thomas 
Aleyn  being  my  godsonne  fourty  shillinges.  Ynto  the  poore  of  Braughin  fourty  shillings.  The 
residue  of  my  goods  I  give  to  Jane  my  wellbeloved  wife  whom  I  make  sole  executrix.  Probatum 
visesimo  sexto  die  mensis  Februarij  1633  juramento  Johis  Spanswicke  nora  procurat  excis. 

Arch.  Lond.  Essex  &  Herts.  “Dean.”  No.  146. 


READE  OF  WICKFORD. 


163 


Thomas  Aleyn.  was  the  representative  of  the  Aleyns  of  Icklingham  in  Suffolk,  a  township 
which  they  acquired  through  the  marriage  of  their  ancestor,  John  Aleyn,  Baron  of  the  Exchequer, 
temp  King  Henry  VII.,  with  Constance,  daughter  and  heiress  of  William  Gedding.  The  will  is 
sealed  with  the  Aleyn  Arms,  per  bend  rompu  argent  and  sable,  six  martlets  counter-changed. 
Pedigrees  of  the  family  are  given  in  the  Visitations  of  Suffolk  (Harl.  MSS.  891  and  1560)  and  of 
Devonshire  (Harl.  MS.  1080).  Allen  quartered  Gedding,  Aspall,  Peache  and  Watvyle  (Barretts  MS.  fyc.) 


Will  of  William  lUate,  1659. 

William  Reade  of  Birchanger  in  the  county  of  Essex,  Gentleman,  this  thirty  day  of  March 
1659.  I  bequeath  my  soule  to  God,  my  body  to  the  earth,  in  sure  and  certaine  hope  of 

Resurection  to  eternal  life  through  the  power  &  vertue  of  my  Redeemer.  To  be  decently  buried 
neare  the  body  of  my  deare  wife  in  the  Chancell  of  Birchanger.  Inprimis  I  make  my  loving 
sonne  Alleyn  Read  my  sole  executor  and  do  give  him  all  my  lands  to  him  &  to  his  heires  for 
ever.  Itm  Vnto  my  daughter  Ann  Clarke  widowe  two  hundred  pounds.  If  my  daughter  Ann 
Clarke  marrie  againe  she  shall  convey  to  my  grandchild  Elizabeth  .Clarke  her  daughter  one  hundred 
pounds  at  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares  or  day  of  her  marriage  which  shall  first  happen. 

To  my  sonne  Alleyn  Read  <k  to  his  wife  &  to  my  daughter  Anne  Clarke  &  likewise  to  my 

loving  brother  Colonell  Thomas  Read  &  his  wife  to  everie  one  of  them  perticularly  a  gold  ring 
of  forty  shillings  price  each  ring.  To  my  sister  Lake  my  sister  Symonds  my  sister  Winthropp 
my  cozin  Thomas  Cook  &  his  wife  my  cozin  Joseph  Cooke  my  cozen  Bennett  widowe,  to  Mr 

Lear  clarke  &  to  Mr  Thomas  Cuthbert  &  to  my  fower  grandchildren  William,  Alleyn  &  Thomas 
Read  <fc  Elizabeth  Clarke  to  each  of  them  a  gold  ring  of  twentie  shillings  price.  To  my  loving 
ffriend  William  Parsons  now  of  Birchanger  clarke  &  to  his  wife  &  daughter  Margarett  Parsons 
each  one  gold  ring.  Vnto  ye  poore  in  Birchanger  forty  shillings  and  ye  poore  of  Wickford  in 
Essex  forty  shillings.  All  y®  rest  of  my  estate  I  give  wholy  &  intirely  to  my  loving  sonne 
Alleyn  Reade  whome  I  make  my  executor.  Pved  att  London  the  sixt  day  of  June  1659  by 
the  oath  of  Alleyn  Read  y®  sonn.  P.C.C.  345  Pell. 


Inscription  in  Jiircljattgcr  ffiljanccl,  (Essrr. 

“William  Reade,  of  this  parish,  and  Ann  his  wife,  sole  daughter  and  heir  of  Thomas  Aleyn, 
of  Braughen  in  Hertfordshire,  gentleman,  by  Jane  his  wife,  one  of  the  daughters  of  Thomas 
Laventhorp,  of  Albury  Hall  in  the  said  county,  esquire.  She  died,  1 4tu  Nov.  1639.  He,  the 
3d  April,  1659.  This  monument  was  erected  by  their  only  son,  Aleyn  Reade.” 

Arms :  A  griffin  segreant  ...  a  canton  .  .  .  impaling  per  bend  rompu  ...  six  martlets. 

Wright’s  History  of  Essex,  Vol.  ii.,  155. 


Jlcaftc  fjctojrcc,  Harl.  1429,  fo.  lO^. 

“Allan  Read  Deputy  of  the  ward  of  Faringdon  without,  1670;  an  Atch1.  made.” 

Arms :  Azure  a  griffin  Segreant  Or,  a  canton  of  the  second,  quartering  “  Allen,  Brett, 
•,  Gedding,  Aspall,  Petchye,  Watkins,  Watervile,  Peverell.” 

Crest :  A  griffins  head  azure. 


William  Read  of  Wigford  in  Essex.~Anre  daughter  <£;  heir  of  Thomas  Alleyn. 

*  "  —  -  — 1 1 - 1 - -  -  .  .  ..  .  -  —  .  — i 


Aleyn  Reade,  only  sonn  e,=r  Katherine,  daa. 
ob.  16 — ,  buryed  at  Bis-  I  ot  Richard  Cut- 
hopstarford.  \  bert  of  Lond. 

i - 1 

Alleyn  Read. 


J ane  dk  Flizabeth  both  dyed  mayds  <£  ly 
buryed  in  St.  Annes  Chappell  in  St. 
Dunstan’s  west,  Lond. 


Anne  Reade  twice  marr.  ;  1  to  Henry 
Clarice  ;  Sly  to  Edward  Hides  Dr  of 
divinity. 


W- 


164 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Jveatie  of  3HtctifortJ. 


William  Reade  of  Wickford,  co.  Essex,  yeoman  ;  Will  dated  16  May^  .... 

1534,  proved  at  Chelmsford  26  June  the  same  year. 

I - — - 1 - 1 

Roger  Reade  of  Wickford  ;  made  Will  10 -^Elizabeth,  living  1557  when  .  .  .  ux.  .  .  .  Stonard,  and  had  son, 


Dec.  1557  ;  buried  17  March  1558. 


her  husband  made  his  will. 


Roger  Stonard,  1534. 


William  Reade  of  Wickford  ;=pMary,  named  1603  in 


in  Will,  3  July  1603,  desires 
to  be  buried  in  the  church 
and  names  “  my  brother 
Edmund  Church.” 


her  husband’s  will  ; 
sister  perhaps  of  Ed¬ 
mund  Church. 


Agnes,  wife  of  Henry 
I  >owe,  1557.  Her  son, 
Richard  Dowe,  is 
named  1603  iu  his 
uncle’s  will. 


John  Reade,  1557,  to 
whom  his  father  be¬ 
queathed  Great  and 
Little  Annys  in  Wick¬ 
ford. 


Roger  Reade  of  Pit-=j= 
sea,  co.  Essex  ;  bapt, 
at  Wickford  2  Oct, 
1553  ;  d.  1619. 


Thomasine,  dau.  - 
•of  Thomas 
Wallenger  of 
Chelmsford  ; 
mar.  at  Wick¬ 
ford,  14  Aug. 
1592;  bur.  there 
7  Dec.  following. 


=Edmund  Reade; 
of  Wickford, 
Gent.  ;  bapt.  23 
May  1563  ;  Will 
20  Nov.  1623  ; 
buried  1  1  )ec. 

following  at 
Wickford. 


Margaret,  mar.  John  Lake  and 
went  with  him  to  New  Eng¬ 
land.  She  was  sometime  of  New 
London,  Conn ,  and  after  of 
Ipswich,  Massachusetts,  where 
she  died  in  1672.  They  had 
one  son,  John  Lake,  and  two 
daughters,  Hannah  and  Martha. 
Hannah,  married  Captain  John 
Gallup  of  Stonington,  Conn., 
killed  in  action  with  the  Indians 
19  Dec.  1675,  and  left  issue 
Martha,  married,  1647,  Thomas 
Harris  of  Ipswich,  Mass.,  who 
died  in  1687,  leaving  issue. 


:Elizabeth,2d  wife,  dau  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Cooke  of  Pebmarsh,  co. 
Essex,  whose  Will,  P.C  C.  94 
Dale, is  dated  30  Aug.  1621  (by 
Susan,  his  first  wife,  dau.  of 
.  .  .  Brand  of  Boxford,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk)  ;  sister  to  Thomas  Cook 
of  Great  Yeldham.  Gent  ,  who 
entered  pedigree  in  the  Essex 
Visitatn.,1634.  Harl.M S.  1432. 


TTT-I 


:Hugh  Peter,  2d 

JohnReade, 

Margaret 

Two  sons 

husband,  the  well- 

bapt.  25th 

mar.  at 

named 

known  soldier 

Jan.  1575  ; 

Wickford 

William, 

preacher  of  Crom¬ 
well’s  army  ;  some¬ 

devisee  of 

15  Feb. 

d.  young. 

Edmund 

1586,  to 

— 

time  pastor  at 

Reade,  his 

William 

Richard, 

Salem,  Massachu¬ 

brother, 

Hurt. 

b.  1573. 

setts  ;  executed  as 
a  regicide,  1660. 

1623. 

Mary,  b. 
1571. 

r^-Ti 

Roger  Reade, 
living  1603. 

J ohn  Reade 
of  Pitsea. 

Agnes  Read, 
ob.  infaus. 


Elizabeth.born  at  Wick¬ 
ford,  1617  ;  2d  wife  of 
John  Winthrop,  Jun., 
Governor  of  Connecti¬ 
cut  ;  died  24  Nov.  1672, 
leaving  issue.  See  Win- 
throp  of  N & w  London, 
p.  27. 

I - 

Daniel  Eppes, 
m  1664  Eliza¬ 
beth  Symonds 
his  stepsister, 
and  d  1693, 
leaving  issue. 


Daniel 
Eppes  of 
Kent ;  of 
London, 
1621,  1st 
husband. 


= Martha  Reade, =j=SamuelSymonds, Esq.,  =^=Dorothy,  da.  of  Thomas 


mar.  Samuel 
Symonds  circa 
1637,  &  went 
to  New  Eng¬ 
land  ;  his  2d 
wife.  She  d. 
1662, 


4tli  son  of  Richd.  Sy¬ 
monds  of  Great  Yeld¬ 
ham,  co.  Essex;  of 
Ipswich,  New  England, 
1637 ;  Deputy  Gover¬ 
nor  of  Massachusetts, 
1673-79.  4, 


Harlakenden  of  Earl’s 
Colne,  co.  Essex, Esq.,  1st 
wife  ;  by  whom  many 
children,  both  sons  and 
daughters. 


Eliz.  Eppes, 
mar.  James 
Chute  of 
Ipswich, 
Mass.  ;  both 
living  1653. 


Mary  Eppes, 
mar.  Peter 
Duncan  of 
Gloucester, 
Mass.  She 
died  1692, 
leaving 
issue. 


MarthaSymonds, 
mar.  1,  John 
Denison;  2,  Rich¬ 
ard  Martyn  of 
Portsmouth, N.H. 
She  d.  1684.  Is¬ 
sue  by  both  hus¬ 
bands. 


Ruth,  mar.  1659, 
Rev.  John  Emer¬ 
son  and  d.  1702, 
leaving  issue. 

Samuel  Symonds, 
Harv.  Coll.  1663; 
d.  mim.  1669. 


Priscilla  Symonds, 
born  1648  ;  mar. 
1672  Thos.  Baker  of 
Topsfield,  Mass.,  & 
had  six  children  ; 
d.  1734. 


William  Reade  of  Birch-= 
auger,  co  Essex.  Gent. ; 
Will,  P.C.C.  345  Pell  ; 
names  sisters  Winthrop, 
Lake  and  Symonds.  He 
died  3  April  1659  ;  bur. 
in  Birchanger  Chancel. 
M.I. 


Anne,  dau.  and  heir  of  Thomas 
Aleyn,  Gent.,  of  Icklingham,  co. 
Suffolk,  and  after  of  Braughin, 
co.  Herts.,  who  made  Will,  Arch. 
Lond.,  Essex  and  Herts,  21  Oct. 
1 633, by  Jane, dau.  of  Thos  Leven- 
thorp,  Esq.  M.I.  in  Birchanger 
Church.  She  d.  14  Nov.  1639. 


Samuel  Reade,  2d 
son,  1623  ;  a  phy¬ 
sician  ;  of  Bis¬ 
hop’s  Stortford, 
co.  Herts.,  1643  ; 
dead,  apparently, 
in  1659. 


- 1 — i - 

Two  sons 
named 
Edmund, 
who  died 
young. 


Thomas 
son, of  Wickford.  gent., 
and  of  Salem,  Mass.  ; 
after  a  Colonel  in  the 
Pari.  Army  and  Gov. 
of  StirlingCastle.  Will 
proved  at  London  6 
Nov.  1 662. 


Reade,  ?d=r Priscilla,  dau.  of  John 
Banks  of  Maidstone 
and  sister  to  Caleb 
Banks  ;  aunt  to  Sir 
John  Banks  of  Ayles- 
ford,  created  aBaronet, 
1661. 


Aleyn  Reade,  citizen  andq=Katherine,  da.  of 
merchant-tailor  of  London  ;  ^  ”  ' 

Will,  PC.C.  166  King,  21 
March  1678,  proved  3  Dec. 

1679.  Had  Great  and  Lit¬ 
tle  Annys  in  Wickford. 


Richard  Cuthbert  of 
London  and  sister  of 
Thomas  Cuthbert. 
See  Read  pedigree, 
Hurl.  MS. 


- ! — , - 

Jane  and  Eliza¬ 
beth,  devisees  of 
their  grandfather 
Aleyn,  died  un¬ 
married. 


1429. 


Anne,  married  1st 
to  Henry  Clarke 
and  2d  to  Edward 
Hickes,  Dr.  of  Di¬ 
vinity. 


Samuel  Reade  of  Lon¬ 
don,  merchant,  kinsman 
and  final  executor  of 
Aleyn  Read  30  March 
1683.  Living  1714. 


i  i - 1 

Priscilla.  John,  b. 

—  1656  ;  d. 

Thomas,  young. 


Aleyn  Reade,  Gent., 
s.  and  h  ,  executor 
to  his  father ;  ob. 
s.p.  Vesey  c.  Read, 
lteynardson,  I,  117. 
Dead  1683. 


- — ri — i 

Richard,  Wil¬ 
liam  and  Tho¬ 
mas,  died  un¬ 
married  in 
1683. 


William  Vesey  of=Ehzabeth 
Whatfield.  co  Suf¬ 
folk,  Gent.  ;  ob. 
s,p.  M.I.  in  What¬ 
field  Gh.  See  Ve- 

SKY  OF  WlX. 


Clarke,  devisee=Matthew  Isaack  of  Hitch-=j=Maria,  1st  wife,  by 

whom  he  had,  with 
other  issue,  a  son  and 
two  daus.  who  survived 
him.  See  Cullum  OF 
s|/Haudwick. 


of  her  grandfather  Alleyn 
cousin  and  heir-at-law  to 
Alleyn  Read  1683  ;  no  issue 
by  either  husband. 


am,  com.  Suffolk,  Gent., 
2d  husband;  died  1702  ; 
had  married  Elizabeth 
Vesey  before  26  Dec. 
1700. 


The  above  is  founded  upon  the  Pedigree  of  Read,  with  numerous  wills,  &c.  given  in  the  “  Ancestry  of  Priscilla  Baker,”  by 
her  descendant  William  S.  Appleton  of  Boston,  U.S.  ;  the  Read  aud  Cooke  pedigrees  in  the  Harleian  MSS.  ;  and  the  very 
genealogical  Chancery  Proceedings  in  Veyscy  contra  Read ,  Reynardson,  I,  117.  in  the  Public  Record  Office.  Numerous  letters  from 
members  of  the  Reade  family  and  its  connections  are  to  be  found  in  the  six  volumes  of  selections  from  the  Winthrop  Papers 
published  by  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society,  while  many  others  are  still  unpublished. 


Qttiiitttonal  (fiutiences. 


The  preceding  portion  of  this  work  has  been  devoted  to  the  Winthrops  of  Groton  and  the 
families  allied  to  them.  The  five  following  evidences  would  have  been  included  in  proper  order 
had  they  come  to  light  in  season,  and  they  are  now  appended  before  passing  to  wholly 
different  subjects. 


Mill  of  ffimge  Still,  1560. 

Ano  Dili  1560,  Jauar  30.  I  George  Styll,  bacheler  in  Divinitie  and  felowe  of  S1,  John’s 
colledge  in  Oambridg,  being  sicke  in  body  but  sownd  in  mynde,  make  this  my  last  wiil.  I  bequeath 
my  whole  self  to  my  great  and  good  god  in  whom  onlye  I  costantly  beleve.  My  worldly  goods 
I  bestowe  theim  wholie  on  Mr  John  Styll  Doctor  of  Divinitie,  desyering  hym,  yf  he  thincke  so 
good  to  gyve  to  my  father  my  gelding.  All  my  books  (yf  my  said  brother  thincke  good)  I  gyve 
to  my  nephew  John  Styll  my  said  brother  his  eldest  sonne.  To  my  syster  Mrs  Ann  Styll,  my 
said  brother’s  wieff,  I  gyve  my  twoe  carpetts,  Ac.  To  Joan  my  sister  a  featherbedd,  Ac.  To 
Elizabeth  my  sister  three  or  four  pounds.  I  bequeath  for  four  yeres  after  my  death  yearlie  xs 
to  be  distributed  vnto  the  poore  of  Whatfeld  in  Suffolk  on  Xpemas  daye.  To  the  three  wytnesses 

of  this  my  wyll,  Mr  James  Byll  bachelor  of  Divinitie,  Mr  Peter  Wythipoll  and  Authonye  Higgyn 

Mr  of  arte,  I  bequeath  to  eche  of  theim  a  flrenche  crowne  to  make  them  a  ringe  to  remebre 

me  wtball.  For  all  my  apparell  at  Hadley  and  elsewhere  1  gyve  it  wholie  to  my  said  brother 

John  Still.  I  request  of  him  as  my  last  peticon  that  he  nevr  lett  Sr  Gedney  want  so  long  as 
he  lyveth.  Adm  to  Jo.  Styll,  S.T.P.,  fratri  naturali  et  ltimo  Georgij  Styll,  S.T.B.,  vicesimo  septimo 
die  Junij  1585.  Wills,  University  of  Cambridge,  1558 — 1602,  fo.  95. 

For  the  will  of  the  testator’s  brother,  successively  Bector  of  Whatfield,  Vicar  of  Hadleigh 
and  Bishop  of  Bath  and  "Wells,  and  for  their  pedigree  see  pp.  74-76.  Alice  Still,  their  sister, 
became  the  first  wife  of  the  third  Adam  Wintlirop  in  1574,  and  died  s.p.  in  1579. 

A  fine  pedigree  of  the  Stills  of  Dorsetshire,  descendants  of  the  Bishop,  with  some  account 
of  the  family,  will  be  found  in  Hutchins’  History  of  that  County,  Vol.  III. 


Cljanrsrn  prom&mgs,  Ifunne  t.  ISurtr,  1571- 

In  most  humble  manor  complayninge  sheweth  vnto  your  good  Lordeshippe  your  poore  and  daylie 
Orator  John  Hunne  of  the  Cytie  of  London  that  one  Richarde  Celye,  cosyngermyn  to  Maryon  Burde 
alias  Bryde  of  Ypeswiche  wydowe,  was  indebted  to  Thomas  Clerke  of  London  lynnen  draper  in  the 
some  of  fyftie  poundes  in  moneye.  Richard  Cely,  beinge  verie  vnable  to  pave  the  same,  requested 
said  Maryon  to  wryte  for  him  to  some  ffrende  of  hers  to  take  order  for  the  payment  at  some 


166 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


other  and  longer  daies.  Maryon  dyd  request  your  Orator  (for  there  was  great  ffrendesheppe  between 
your  Orator  and  said  Maryon)  to  deale  with  Thomas  Clerlce  for  Celye.  By  her  letters  said  Maryon 

did  promise  to  save  harmeles  your  Orator  whatsoever  he  shoulde  doo  promyse  or  vndertake  for 

Celye.  Your  Orator  [therefore]  became  bounden  to  Clerke  for  the  payment  of  tenne  poundes,  parcell 
of  the  said  ffyftie.  Sytlience  which  tyme  your  orator  hathe  byn  compelled  to  paye  the  said  tenne 

pounds  with  twelue  shillinges  for  damages.  But  soe  it  is  that  Maryon  doth  refuse  to  repay  to 

your  orator  the  said  tenne  poundes.  Said  pmyse  was  not  made  by  Maryon  I’urd  before  wytnesses, 

but  secretly  by  her  letters — which  letters  orator  has  sytlience  loste,  [being]  imbeseled  by  one 

William  Celye,  brother  to  the  said  Maryon.  Orator  cannot  compell  Maryon  to  pforme  her  pmyse 
by  the  comen  lawes  of  this  realme.  Maye  yt  therefore  please  your  good  lordesheppe  to  grant 
the  Queues  Wrytte  of  Subpena  to  be  directed  to  the  said  Maryon  Burde,  &c ,  &c. 

The  answere  of  Marryon  Bryde  ats  Bvrde  wydowe,  defendnnt,  14  Elizth.  Defendnt  att 
the  request  of  Richard  Cely  yn  the  lyfFo  of  Richard  Bryde  hyr  late  husbaud  dyd  cawse  a  letter 
to  be  dyrectedd  vnto  compleynnt  &  requested  him  to  be  ffryndly  vnto  said  Rychard  Cely.  And 

thoughe  the  supposell  were  true,  as  the  same  ys  very  vntrue,  yett  forasmuch  as  defend,  att  that 

tyme  was  a  wyffe  &  under  the  coverture  of  Rychard  Byrd  hyr  husband  she  demaundeth  Judgement 
of  this  honourable  Courte  yf  she  shalbe  ffurther  compelled  to  make  answere  to  the  surmyses  & 
allygacons  of  Compleynt. 

Chanc.  Proc.,  Series  II,  Bundle  97,  No.  85. 

It  would  now  seem  that  Maryon  Burde  alias  Bryde  of  Ipswich  and  Richard  Byrde,  her 

husband,  were  identical  with  the  “  Richarde  Burde  of  Ipswich  and  my  sister  his  wief,”  who  are 

referred  to  in  the  will  cf  the  second  Adam  Winthrop  (See  page  13).  Prolonged  research  has  failed 
to  discover  any  other  Richard  Burde  of  that  place  and  period.  It  has  been  assumed  that  Richard 
Burde’s  wife  was  the  own  sister  of  Adam  Winthrop,  but  the  evidence  of  the  wills  of  John  Cely 

of  Bury  St,  Edmunds,  1557,  and  of  Alice  Cely,  his  widow,  1558,  discovered  since  the  issue  of 

the  earlier  pages  of  this  volume,  creates  a  presumption  that  she  was  really  the  step-sister  of  Alice 
Henny  or  Hunne,  Adam  Winthrop’s  first  wife,  who  died  young  in  1538.  Alice  Cely,  previously 

wife  of  -  Hunne,  died  in  1558,  leaving  three  Hunne  children  then  surviving  and  a  stepdaughter, 

Maryon  Cely,  wife  of  Richard  Byrde  alias  Bryde  of  Ipswich,  clearly  the  defendant  in  “Hunne 
contra  Burd.”  She  also  left  a  son,  William  Cely,  who  is  believed  to  be  the  William  Cely  who 
married  Adam  Winthrop’s  daughter,  Mary.  For  the  will  of  Richard  Byrde  and  further  particulars 
of  the  families  of  Hunne  and  Cely  see  hereafter,  pp.  221-223  (Goodwin  of  Bull’s  Hall). 


Mill  ol  Holjn  SSUjtltntgljam,  1619 

The  sixteenth  day  of  August,  1619.  John  Whittingham,  citizen  and  grocer  of  London,  and 
nowe  of  Battersey  in  the  countie  of  Surrey  gentleman.  I  comehde  my  soule  vnto  God,  hopinge 
to  be  saved,  and  to  enioye  eternall  rest  amongst  the  blessed  companie  of  his  elect.  By  covennts 

bearinge  date  29tu  November  1614  before  my  intermarriage  wth  Sara  my  nowe  wieffe  I  haue  bounde 

my  selfe  to  paie  vnto  her  the  some  of  two  thousande  pounds.  I  giue  vnto  her  in  leiwe  of  her 

porcoh  wch  she  maye  claime  by  the  custome  of  the  cittie  of  London  and  in  recompence  of  all 

agreements,  the  leases  and  all  myne  estates  in  myne  house  and  lands  at  Battersey  and  in  my 


READE  OF  WICKFORD. 


167 


messuages  in  Whitecrossstreete  in'  the  parislie  of  Sct  Gyles  \vthout  Cripplegate  London  and  in  one 
messuage  in  Cheapeside  wherein  Mrs  Joane  Norrington  sometimes  did  inhabite.  I  doe  give  vnto 
the  saide  Sara  soe  muche  of  my  goodes  as  shalbe  of  the  value  of  two  hundred  pounds.  I  giue 
my  coppyhoulde  tenement  in  Battersey  sometimes  in  the  tenure  of  the  Ladie  Frauncis  Howarde, 
and  alsoe  all  other  my  coppiehoulde  messuags  in  Battersey  and  Waynsworth  vnto  the  saide  Sara  my 
wieffe  her  heires  and  assignes  for  ever.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  I  doe  bequeath  in  manner  and 
forme  following.  I  giue  vnto  my  children  one  equall  thirde  thereof  accordinge  to  the  lawdable 
custome  of  the  cittie  of  London.  Vnto  my  daughter  Dorothie  ffiftie  poundes  and  my  best  bearinge 
mantle.  Vnto  my  sonne  John  Whittingham  ffiftie  pounds.  Vnto  my  daughter  Marye  my  bearing 
mantle  trimed  wth  wachet  silver  lace.  To  my  sonne  William  Whittingham  a  guilte  bole  called  a 
boate  wch  was  given  him  by  his  godfather  Cranmer.  I  release  vnto  my  sister  Warrell  all  the 
debte  wch  she  oweth  mee.  Vnto  Sr  John  Weld  of  Arnolds,  Knight,  my  biggest  graie  cculte.  Vnto 
my  sister  Monger  and  my  sister  Ditchfeilde  eache  a  ringe  of  goulde.  To  my  nephew  Humfrey 
Warrell  ffive  pounds.  Vnto  my  nephewe  John  Blastocke  twentie  poundes  at  his  age  of  one  & 

twenty  yeares.  My  son  in  lawe  and  daughter  Gere.  I  giue  vnto  my  brother  in  lawe  Josua 

Winthroppe  and  to  his  wieffe  twentie  shillings  a  peece  to  make  each  of  them  a  ringe.  My  cosen 
Harrison  and  her  husbande  and  my  sonnes  in  lawe  Thomas  Vincent  and  William  Palmer.  To  my 
executor  ffortie  pounds.  To  Joane  Barton  my  sister  Ellis  her  maide.  Threescore  pounds  to  be 

bestowed  vpon  my  ffunerall.  Vnto  the  poor  of  Battersey  three  pounds.  To  the  poore  prisoners 

in  the  two  Compters  and  in  Ludgate  sixe  poundes.  The  residue  of  my  goods  I  whollie  giue  to 
all  my  children,  parte  and  parte  like.  I  ordaine  my  trustie  and  welbeloved  brother  in  lawe, 
William  Cranmer  executor.  And  overseers  I  name  my  lovinge  freinde  Mr  Humfrye  Phippes  and 
my  lovinge  brother  in  lawe  Mr  Edwarde  Ditchfeilde.  Probatum  vicesimo  primo  Septembris  1619, 
juramento  WiBmi  Cranmer,  executoris.  P.C.C.  88  Parker. 

John  Whittingham  and  Joshua  Winthrop,  his  brother  in  law,  had  married  two  sisters, 
daughters  of  Vincent  Norrington,  Citizen  and  Grocer  of  London,  whose  nuncupative  will,  dated  on 
or  about  the  second  of  January  1597,  was  proved  on  the  nineteenth  of  the  same  month  by  Joan 
Norrington,  his  relict.  [P.C.C.  5  Lewin.]  “  Sicke  in  body  and  in  danger  of  death  he  did  giue 
all  that  euer  he  had  unto  Joane  his  loueing  wife,  sayinge  that  if  he  had  five  thousand  pounds 
more  he  wold  not  giue  anie  from  her.”  On  the  12th  of  November  1617,  a  commission  was 
issued  to  Sarah  Whittingham,  one  of  the  sisters  referred  to,  for  the  final  administration  of  her 
father’s  estate.  It  was  Mary,  the  other  sister,  who  married  Joshua  Winthrop,  sometime  of  London, 
and  after  of  Bandon  in  Ireland,  whose  kindred  and  connections  will  be  found  in  the  pedigree  of 
Winthrop  of  Groton,  at  page  27. 


Will  of  Hotel  JRH&maD,  1646, 

The  ffirst  day  of  May,  1646.  Robert  Mildmay  of  Tarling  in  the  countie  of  Essex  Esqr. 

To  be  buried  in  my  chancell  of  my  pish  church  in  Tarling.  The  some  of  ffiue  hundred  pownds 

wnh  I  did  lend  vnto  my  brother  John  Goodwyn  of  the  Inward  Temple  London  Esqr  twentie  sixte 

day  of  May  1642  to  be  paid  vnto  my  exccuto18  within  one  yeere  nexte  after  my  decease.  For 

the  payment  whereof  said  John  Goodwyn  made  me  a  lease  of  the  Mannor  Milles  lying  in  Stystead ; 
out  of  which  said  some  to  be  paid  vnto  my  nephew  Robert  Mildmay  sonne  of  William  Mildmay 


168 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


late  of  Woodham  Water  the  some  of  twoe  hundred  povvnds  as  vpon  agreemt  of  his  marriage  was 
concluded.  Vnto  Anne  Gliston  wife  of  Henry  Gliston  Docter  of  Phizick  ffyftie  pownds.  Ynto 
Elizabeth  Peck  wife  of  Samuell  Peck  of  Chelmsford,  Gent,  ffyftie  pounds.  Vnto  Joane  Mildmay 
daughter  of  Thomas  Mildmay  of  Finchingfeild  ffowertie  pounds  at  the  age  of  eighteene  yeeres. 
Vnto  Robert  Mildmay  sonne  of  Anthony  Mildmay  of  Woodbridge  in  the  countie  of  Suffolck  the 
some  of  twentie  pownds  at  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeeres.  Vnto  John  Stalham  or  minnester 
the  some  of  ffiue  pounds.  Vnto  my  brother  John  Goodwyn,  Esqr  and  my  cozen  John  Maidstone 
Gent,  the  some  of  three  pownds  a  peece  to  make  them  rings,  whom  I  doe  request  to  be  superuisors 
of  this  my  will.  All  the  rest  of  my  goods  I  giue  to  my  loueing  wife  Joane  Mildmay  whom 

I  make  sole  executrix  :  she  not  to  suffer  any  wast  or  spoyle  of  my  houses  woods  or  lands 

at  Tarling  wch  I  haue  entaled  vpon  hir  dureing  hir  naturall  life.  Probat  13  July  1646  iuramento 
Joanne  Mildmay,  excutricis.  Arch  Colch.  Wills,  1646-47,  No.  21. 

The  seal  affixed  to  this  will  has  the  arms  of  Mildmay  with  a  mullet  for  difference.  The 

testator  was  son  of  John  Mildmay  of  Cretingham.  Anne  Gliston  and  Elizabeth  Peck  were 

sisters  of  the  Robert  Mildmay  named  in  the  will,  who  was  son-in-law  of  Dame  Amy  Mildmay. 
Anthony  Mildmay  of  Woodbridge  was  doubtless  the  son  of  Thomas  Mildmay  of  Framlingham. 
See  Mildmay  pedigrees,  pp.  47-48. 


Mary  Paul  of  Norwich,  widow,  16th  March  1737.  My  moiety  of  my  reputed  manor  and 
capital  messuage  and  of  all  my  lands  in  Polstead,  Boxford  and  Assington  in  the  county  of  Suffolk, 
also  moiety  of  messuage  and  lands  in  Mendlesham  in  the  said  county,  unto  my  loving  sister  Sarah 
Fones.  After  her  decease  all  said  messuages  lands  woods  &c.  in  Mendlesham  unto  my  three  grand¬ 
children,  Ann  Paul,  Mary  Paul  and  Samuel  Paul,  the  son  and  daughters  of  my  son  in  law  John 
Paul  of  Mile  End  Green  in  the  county  of  Middlesex  mariner,  and  to  their  respective  heirs  as 
tenants  in  common.  And  from  the  decease  of  my  said  sister  Sarah  Fones  I  give  my  moiety  of 
said  Manor  in  Polstead  Ac.  to  Nehemiah  Lodge  of  the  city  of  Norwich,  gentleman,  forever,  in  trust 
to  sell  and  receive  rents  and  to  pay  legacies.  That  is  to  say,  to  my  cousin  Katherine,  the  wife  of 
Mr  John  Nuthall.  citizen  and  Alderman  of  Norwich  the  sum  of  fifty  pounds  :  to  my  cousin  Sarah 
their  daughter  one  hundred  pounds  :  to  my  cousin  John  Jackson  woollen  draper  fifty  pounds :  to 
my  cousins  Elizabeth  Smyth,  Abigail  Smyth,  and  James  Smith  of  Norwich  each  fifty  pounds  : 
to  my  cousin  Elizabeth  Baist  the  wife  Mr  Edward  Baist  ten  pounds  :  to  my  cousin  Sarah  Beamont 
the  wife  of  Mr  John  Beaumont  ten  pounds  :  to  my  cousin  Mary  Lodge  the  wife  of  said  Nehemiah 
Lodge  ten  pounds  :  to  my  cousin  Martha  Jackson  twenty  pounds  :  to  my  grandson  John  Paul 
fifty  pounds  and  to  Thomas  Paul  son  of  said  John  Paul  at  his  age  of  twenty  one  years.  To  poor 
ministers  or  ministers  widows  and  other  poor  persons  the  sum  of  twenty  five  pounds  out  of  my 
South  Sea  Annuities.  My  sister  Sarah  Fones  to  be  sole  executrix.  Proved  12  October  1738  by 
oath  of  Sarah  Fones,  spinster.  P.C.C.  240  Brodrepp. 

The  will  of  John  Paul  of  Bethnal  Green,  co.  Middlesex,  Gentleman,  the  husband  of  testatrix, 
was  proved  in  the  Prerogative  Court  in  1733  (P.C.C.  15  Ockham),  and  that  of  Sarah  Fones,  her 
sister,  in  1745  (P.C.C.  J)6  Edmunds).  For  pedigree  and  wills  of  Fones  of  Nusteed,  see  pp.  83-87. 


Cullttm  of  Jpato  strati  &  ^artitDitfe. 


Walter  Cullum  of  Thorudon,  eo.  Suffolk,  owner  of  lands  in=pYsudore 


survived  her 


Thorndon,  Occolt,  Eye,  and  Wetheringsett.  Will,  6  Sept. 
1453,  proved  4  Oct-.  145.4, 


husband. 


John  Cullum  of  Thorndon. -=j=. 
Will  proved  8  June  1483. 


Robert  Cullum.  [Evidently  the  Robert  Cullum  of  Thorndon  whose  will. 
25  Sept.  1458,  proved  13  Oct.  following,  mentions  his  sons,  John  and 
Andrew,  and  his  wife,  Katherine.] 


Walter=pKatherine  Rivett,  mentioned  in  son’s  will,  4  April 
Cullum  1548  (probably  of  the  family  of  Rivett  of  the 
of  Stan-  neighbouring  parish  of  Rishangles,  of  whom 
hill  in  Agnes,  mar.  to  John  Frere  of  Wickham  Skeith, 
Thorn-  was  ancestress  of  the  Freres  of  Roydon  Hall, 

don.  Norfolk. 


Thomas  Cullum,  probably  same 
as  the  feoffee  of  a  Thorndon  deed, 
1494,  and  a  son  of  John  Cullum, 
who  mentions  him  in  will  above- 
named,  1483. 


John  Cullum,  probably  son 
and  same  as  the  John  Cul¬ 
lum  who  was  party  to  an 
Occolt  deed,  12  Jan.  15 
Henry  VII. 


Sibly 

Cullum. 


Thomas  Cullum  of  Stanhill  in  Thorn-=f=Alice,  da.  of  .  .  .  Aldrich,  widow  of 


don.  Will,  4  Ap.  1548,  prov.  24  Sept, 
following.  “  To  be  buried  in  church¬ 
yard  at  Thorndon.” 


John  Thatcher.  Her  will,  8  May 
1560,  was  proved  24  May  following. 
Bur.  25  May  1560  at  Thorndon. 


John  Cullum  of  the  Hill,  Thorndon:  bur.  James  Cullum,. 
there  4  March  1573.  Will,  22  Feb.  1573,  alive  22  Feb. 
proved  27  April  1574.  1573. 

See  Cullum  of  the  Hill. 


John  Cullum  of  Stan-=f=Mary 


hill  in  Thorndon, 
executor  to  his  father’s 
will,  1548  ;  bur.  27 
June  1597,  at  Thorn¬ 
don. 


Apple- 

wright. 


William  Cullum. = 
Faith  Routh,  mar.  at 
Thorndon,  13  April, 
1554  ;  legatee  of  her 
mother-in-law,  1560. 


Thomas  Cul¬ 
lum,  executor 
to  his  mother’s 
will,  a0  1560. 

*  =r 


Anne  or  Agnes  Cullum, =19 
April  1552,  at  Thorndon,  to 
Edmond  Jessop  of  Thorndon 
and  by  1560  was  mother  of 
Edmund,  Adam  &  Anne  Jessop. 


Thomas  Cullum, 
alive  1560. 


William  Cullum, 
alive  1560. 


Thomasine  Cullum, 
alive  1560. 


Sibly  Cullum.=(l)  Robert 
Smythe  of  Kenton,  mar.  at 
Thorndon,  4  Sept.  1548,  by 
whomAgnes&  Sibly  Smythe. 
=(2)  By  8  May  1560  .  .  . 
Aldrich,  by  whom,  at  that 
time,  mother  of  Rose  and 
Frances  Aldrich. 


l.John  Cullum  of  Stanliill- 
in  Thorndon,  M.A.  Will, 
22  Feb.  proved  21  March 
1609.  Buried  at  Thorn¬ 
don,  27  February  1609. 


=Rebecca,  dau.  of  Thomas=(2)  William  Butts,  Esq., 
Smyth  of  Bacton,  Suf-  of  Brockford  in  Wetlier- 
folk,  Gent.,  by  Alice,  dau.  ingsett.  Will,  28  Feb. 
of  Thomas  Ivye  of  Lon-  1647.  Bur. there  21March 
don  and  Wiltshire.  following.  Probate  31  May 

1647. 


2.  Thomas  Cullum,  bapt. 
25  Dec.1559;  bur.  30Mar. 
1 567.  Both  at  Thorndon. 

3.  Thomas  Cullum,  bap.  3 
Dec.  1568,  at  Thorndon. 


4.  Grace  Cullum,  named  in 
will,  1560.  Evidently  the 
Grace  Cullum,  dau.  of  John, 
bapt.  9  April  1541,  and 
buried  19  April  1567,  both 
at  Thorndon. 


Rebecca  Cullum,  mat. 
at  Thorndon,  7  Nov. 
1609.=Richard  Jessop 
of  Thorndon. 


Susan  Cullum  “  of  Brockford  in  Wetheriug- 
sett.”  Will.  10  June,  prov.  27  Nov.  1628. 
Bur.  30  June  1628  at  Wetheringsett,  un¬ 
married. 


Martha  Cullum,  bapt.  3  Aug.  1606,  at  Thorndon. 
=Rev.  llobert  Horner,  mentioned  as  alive  in  Sir 
Thomas  Cullum’s  will,  1662. 


John  Culluuu 
of  Thorndon, 
mar.  June  12 
1619  at  Eye; 
buried  in 
Thorndon 
church,  April 
26, 1667,  aged 
82. 


•Alice,  dau.  of 
JohnDusgate, 
Esq.,  of  Cock- 
ley  Cley,  co. 
Norfolk.  Will, 
27  Feb.  1672, 
prob.  9  April 
1675.  Bur.  at 
Thorndon,  20 
March  1674. 


A 

Pedigbee  A. 


Sir  Thomas  Cullum,  1st  Baronet  of  Haw- 
stead  Place  and  Hardwick  House,  Suff. ; 
Sheriff  of  London,  1646  ;  committed  to 
the  Tower  of  London  with  the  Lord 
Mayor  for  High  Treason  (Royalist  sym¬ 
pathies),  1647  ;  mar.  at  All  Hallows’, 
Lombard  Street,  18  Feb.  162|  ;  created 
Baronet,  18  June  1660  ;  died  6  and  bur. 
9  April  1664,  at  Hawstead.  Will,  2  May 
1662,  prov.  20  May  1664.  His  town 
house  stood  where  Cullum  Street  now 
exists  in  the  City. 


Mary,  one  of  the  5  daus. 
and  coh. of  NicholasCrispe 
of  London,  Mercht..  by 
Rebecca,  d.  of  John  Pake, 
Esq.,  of  Bromefield,  Essex : 
bap.  18  April  1602,  at  All 
Hallows’, Lombard  Street; 
died  22  July  1637,  &  bur. 
in  All  Hallows’ 28  July  fol¬ 
lowing.  She  was  1st  cousin 
to  the  celebratedRoyalist, 
z)\Sir  Nics.  Crispe,  1st  Bart. 


Daniel1 
Cullum, 
dead  by 
1628. 


Pedigbee  B. 


=Elizabeth,  da.  of  Wil¬ 
liam  Butts  of  Brock¬ 
ford,  Esq.,  by  his  1st 
wife,  Elizabeth,  dau.  of 
Robert  Hitcham,  Esq., 
of  Levington,  Suff.  : 
bap.  4  Aug.  1601,  at 
Wetheringsett  ;  remar. 
John  Wilby,  Esq.,  and 
was  alive  at  the  making 
of  Sir  Thos.  Cullum’ & 
will,  1662. 


Daniel  Cullum,  mentioned  in 
wills  of  1628  and  1647. 


Elizabeth  Cullum,  mentioned 
in  will,  1628. 


X 


170 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Jietitgm  & 


John  Cullum  of  Thorndon,  co.  Suffolk1 
(see  preceding  page),  mar.  12  June  1619, 
at  Eye  ;  buried  in  Thorndon  church,  26 
April  1667,  aged  82. 


Alice,  dau.  of  John  Dusgate  of  Cockley 
Cley,  Norfolk.  Will,  27  Feb.  1672,  proved 
9  April  1675.  Buried  at  Thorndon,  20 
March  1674. 


n - 

JohnCullum,bornl7 
Ap.,  bap.3May  1621 
at  Thorndon ;  bur.  2 
Ap.  1643  at  All  Hal¬ 
lows’,  Lombard  St. 

Francis  Cullum, 
bap.  at  Thorndon, 
27  July  1630  ;  bur. 
there  2  Sept.  1658, 
Adm.  granted  to 
his  father,  10  Feb. 

165f. 


William  Cul¬ 
lum  of  Thorn- 
don,  born  27 
March,  bap. 
15  April  162§ 
at  Thorndon  ; 
mar.  at  Brent 
hleigh,  Suff., 
9  Feb.  1656  ; 
bur.  at  Thorn¬ 
don,  15  June 
1700. 


=j=Mary,  dau.  of 
EdwardCole- 
man  of  Brent 
Eleigh,  Suff., 
Esq.,  by 
Dioness,  dau. 
of  Richard 
Hale,  Esq.  ; 
bap.  18  Mar. 
1623,  at 
BrentEleigh. 


Dioness  Cullum, = 
bap.  21  Aug. 
1660,  at  Brent 
Eleigh ;  mar.  at 
Thorndon  29 
May  1697 ;  died 
30  June.  bur.  6 
July  1707,  at 
Brent  Eleigh. 


-Robert  Cole¬ 
man  of  Brent 
Eleigh.  Esq., 
her  mother’s 
first  cousin  ; 
died  9  May, 
bur.  1 5  May 
1730  at  Brent 
Eleigh,  aged 
74. 


Grace  Cul¬ 
lum,  bap.  at 
Thorndon, 
24Jan.l625, 
died  10  Feb. 
1694;  bur. 
in  Denton 
church, 
Norfolk. 


=William  Her- 
veyof  Beding- 
field  Hall, 
Suffolk,  Esq.; 
died  18  May, 
bur.  20  May 
1681,  at  Bed- 
ingfield.  Will, 
4  Sept.  1 680  ; 
no  probate 
clause. 


Thomas  Cullum=f=Mary,  dau.  Rebecca  Cul-=f=  Ambrose 


of  London  and 
theBrick  House, 
Great  Dunmow, 
Essex  ;  born 
last  of  Feb., 
bapt.  15  March 
162f,  at  Thorn¬ 
don  ;  bur.  at 
Great  Dunmow, 
3  Jan.  167*. 


Anne  Cullum, = 
bap.  at  Brent 
Eleigh,  29 
Aug.  1663  ; 
died  20  May 
1739  ;  bur.  in 
Redgrave 
churchyard. 


A 


rJohu  Goate 
of  Thrand- 
eston,Suff., 
Esq.,  died 
4  Dec.1736, 
aged  65  ; 
bur.  in  Red¬ 
grave 

churchyard 


Charles  Cul¬ 
lum,  bap.  at 
St.  Dionys, 
Backchurch, 
19Sept.l651, 
buried  15 
Oct.  1689, 
atGreatDun- 


John  Cul¬ 
lum,  men¬ 
tioned  in 
will,  1672  ; 
buried  14 
Aug.  1676, 
at  Great 
Dunmow. 


of  John 
Wiseman, 
Esq. ,  of 
Boseart,  co. 
Northamp¬ 
ton;  died  31 
Aug.,  bur.  4 
Sept.  1662, 
at  Great 
Dunmow, 
aged  31. 


lum,  bap.  at 
Thorndon,  28 
Feb.  1627  ; 
executrix  of 
mother’s  will, 


1675,  &  joint 
executrix  of 
husband’s, 
1699,  men¬ 
tioned  as  dead 
in  deed  22 
Dec.  1702. 


Elton,  Esq., 
of  Babwell 
Friary  in 
Fornham 
All  Saints, 


Suffolk.  En¬ 
tered  his 
pedigree, 
1664.  Will, 
3  Dec.  1695. 
prob.  26 
zf\Jan.  1699. 


Thomas  Cullum, 
bap.  at  St.  Dio¬ 
nys  Backchurch, 
22  Aug.  1652  ; 
bur.  at  Great 
Dunmow,  5  May 
1656. 


Thomas  Cullum, 
bap.  at  St.  Dio¬ 
nys  Backchurch, 
6  Nov.  1654  ; 
bur.  at  Great 
Dunmow,  10 
Aug.  1697. 


John  Cullum, 
bap.  27  Jan. 
1657. at  Burnt 
Eleigh  ;  alive 
in  1664, 

William  Cul¬ 
lum,  bap.  12 
Feb.l658;bur. 
April  1659, 
both  at  Brent 
Eleigh. 


William  Cullum, = 
bap.  1  Jan.  1661,  at 
Brent  Eleigh ;  mar. 
23  March  169§,  at 
St.  Mary’s,  Bury  St. 
Edmunds  ;  died  23 
Ap.,  bur.  27  Ap. 
1 7  27,  at  Bren  t  Eleigh. 
Will, 1  Jan. 1723;  cod. 
20  Ap.  1727,  proved 
2  May  following. 


:Martha,  dau.  of 
Thomas  Crop- 
ley,  Esq.,  of 
Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  by  Mar¬ 
tha,  his  wife  ; 
died  7  Nov.1732, 
aged  62  ;  buried 
at  Eye  9  Nov. 
following. 


Mary  Cullum,  died= 
2  April  1730,  and 
bur.  9  Ap.  following, 
in  Solomon’s  Porch, 
Westminster  Abbey. 
Adm.  of  her  effects 
granted  to  Eliz. 
Paschall,  spr.,  her 
cousin,  12  May  1730. 


:(1.)  Robert= 
Colinge, 
Esq.,  of  St. 
Martin’s  in 
the  Fields, 
widower ; 
mar.  lie. 

17  Feb. 
1692* 


r(2.)  Sir  Thomas= 
Bromsall,  Kt., 
of  Biggleswade, 
Beds.,  Knight, 
24  Oct.  1704  ; 
died  3  months 
after  his  mar¬ 
riage.  Admon. 
to  widow,  22 
Feb.  170*. 


^(3.)  Rev.  Dr-  John  Her¬ 
bert,  bap.  at  St.  Mar¬ 
garet’s,  Westminster,  28 
July  1685  ;  died  26,  bur. 
30  Oct.  1729  in  Solomon’s 
Porch,  Westminster  Ab¬ 
bey.  Admon.  12  May 
1730,  to  his  mother,  his 
widow’  having  died.  He 
was  Prebend  of  West¬ 
minster. 


Mary  Cullum, = 
bap.  at  Thorn¬ 
don,  18  March 
1695  ;  died  22 
Dec.,  bur.  29 
Dec.  1756  at 
Eye  ;  mar.  at 
Occolt,ll  May 
1728. 


^Nathaniel  D’Eye, 
Esq.,  of  Eye,  bap. 
at  Eye.  3  Nov. 
1691  ;  died  4 
Nov.,  bur.  9  Nov. 
1758,  at  Eye. 


Martha 
Cullum, 
bap.  and 
bur.  at 
Thorn¬ 
don,  7 
Junel695. 


Martha  Cullum, = 
bap.  16  August 
1698  at  Thorn¬ 
don  ;  mar.  28  May 
1728,  at  Eye  ;  bur. 
30  July  1778  at 
Eye. 


:Barnaby  Gibson,  Esq., 
of  Stonliam  Parva, 
Suffolk  ;  bap.  23  Mar. 
1 6  8  5  at  StonhamParva ; 
died  15  July,  bur.  21 
July  1758  at  Stonham 
Parva. 


Dioness  Cullum, =j=Thomas  D’Eye,  Esq.,  of 
bap.  at  Thorn-  ~ 
don,  12  May 
1696  ;  died  2 
Sept.,  bur.  4 
Sept.  1730  at 
Eve. 


Eye ;  bap.  at  Eye,  14 
Feb.  1688  (brother  to 
Nathaniel  D’Eye,  who 
mar.  Mary  Cullum).  mar. 
at  Eye  4  Feb.  1723;  died 
24  Sept.,  bur.  30  Sept, 
following  1756  at  Eye. 


Nathaniel  D’Eye,  bap.  1  Dec.  1724  ;  bur. 
29  June  1731  ;  both  at  Eye. 


Cullum  D’Eye,  bap.  2  Nov.  1727  : 
bur.  15  Jan.  172*,  both  at  Eye. 


Dioness  D’Eye,  bap.  10  May  1726; 
bur.  1  July  following  ;  both  at  Eye. 


Rev.  Thomas  D’Eye,=Mirabella, 
Rector  of  Little  Pal-  da.  of  .  .  . 
grave,  Suffolk  ;  born  at  Stebbing, 
Moor  Hall,  Eye ;  bap.  Esq.,  of 
at  Eye  12  Oct.  1732;  Eye. 
d.  14  July  1766,  s.p. ; 
bur,  at  Oakley,  Suff. 


NathanielD  ’  Eye, bur. 
1  Oct.  1734,  at  Eye. 

Dioness  D’Eye,  bap. 
at  Eye  19  Oct.  1735, 
and  bur.  there  18 


Nathaniel  D’Eye,  twin  with  Mary 
Dioness,  bap.  25  July  1737  ;  D’Eye, 
bur.  23  Oct.  following  at  Eye.  bap.  at 
—  Eye  14 

Dioness  D’Eye.  twin  with  July 
Nathaniel,  bap.  at  Eye  25  1729  ; 

July &bur.there90ct.l737.  ob.  inf. 


Martha=j=(l.)  Edmund  =(2.)  Thomas 


D’Eye, 
bap.  at 
Eye,  13 
January 
1730  ; 


Betts,  Esq.,  of 
Oakley  ;  of  the 
family  of  Betts 
of  Wortham  ; 
mar.  at  Oakley; 


Waythe,  Esq., 
of  Eye,  Attor- 
uey-at-Law  ; 
mar.Oct.1789. 


diedl801./(sdiedSept.l788. 


CULLUM  OF  HAWSTEAD  AND  HARDWICK. 


171 


;Petitgm  38. 


Sir  Thomas  Cullum,  1st  Baronet,  of  Hawstead1 
Place  and  Hardwick  House,  co.  Suffolk  (see  p.  169). 
Sheriff  of  London,  1646  ;  created  Baronet,  18  June 
1660  ;  died  6  and  bur.  9  April  1664,  at  Hawstead. 
Will,  2  May  1662,  proved  20  May  1664. 


Alary,  one  of  the  five  daughters  aud  coheirs 
of  Nicholas  Crispe  of  London,  by  Rebecca, 
dau.  of  John  Pake,  Esq.,  of  Bromefield, 
Essex  ;  mar.  at  Allhallow's,  Lombard  Street, 
18  Feb.  162|. 


Sir  Thomas  Cul-=j=Dudley,  da.  of 


lum,  2nd  Bart., 
of  Hawstead  and 
Hardwick  ;  bap. 
26  Dec.  1628  at 
All  Hallows', 
Lombards  treet; 
mar.  at  Wick- 
liambrook,  Suf¬ 
folk.  27  May 
1656  ;  bur.  at 
Hawstead  16 
Oct.  1680.  Will, 
12  Sept.,  31 
CharlesII;  prob. 
1  Feb.  1680. 


ThotnasCullum, 
bap.at  Hawstead 
20  April  1662  ; 
educated  at 
Christ’s  College, 
Cambridge;  died 
unmarried  22 
Dec.  and  bur.  27 
Dec.  1700  at 
Hawstead. 


SirHeuryNorth, 
Bart.,  ofMilden- 
hall  ;  bap.  at 
Wickhambrook, 
13  Jan.  1637  ; 
bur.  at  Haw¬ 
stead,  10  Sept. 
1680.  Her  sister 
Peregrine  mar. 
Wm.  Hanmer, 
Esq.,  and  was 
mother  of  Sir 
Thos.  Hanmer, 
Speaker  of  the 
House  of  Com¬ 
mons,  aud  editor 
of  Shakespeare. 


Two  sons 
born  pre¬ 
maturely. 
See  their 
mother's 
epitaph. 
Bur.  in  All 
Hallows’, 
Lombard 
Street,  25 
Dec.  1632. 


- 1  i 

Mary  Cullum, 
bap.6  Junel625; 
bur.  22  May 
1649;  both  in  All 
Hallows’  Ch., 
Lombard  Street. 

Anne  Cullum, 
bap.290ct.1626; 
bur.190ct.1631 ; 
in  All  Hallows’, 
Lombard  Street. 


Sarah  Cullum, 
b.  after  1628  ; 
buried  at  Wes- 
terham,  Kent, 
18  April  1634. 

Susan  Cullum, 
bap.  4  Mar.l6f$, 
in  All  Hallows’, 
Lombard  Street. 
Ob.  inf. 


Rebecca^  Job 


Cullum, 
bap.  1 4  Dec. 
1623,  at  All 
Hallows', 
Lombard 
Street,  d. 
16  and  bur. 
there  30 
July  1661. 


Throg¬ 

morton, 

Esq., 

mar. 

1642. 


John  Cullum=f=Anna,  da.  of 


Job  Throgmorton,  bap.  13  Ap.  1643,  in  All 
Hallows’,  Lombard  St. ;  alive  2  May  1662, 
when  apparently  only  surviving  child. 


Other  issue  ob.  infants, 
and  bur.  in  All  Hallows’, 
Lombard  Street. 


of  London,  2d 
surviving  son, 
born  1635  ; 
died  in  Jan. 
17xnand  bur. 
in  All  Hal¬ 
lows’,  Lom¬ 
bard  Street. 
Will.  13  Sept. 

1709  ;  codicil, 
17  F^b.  1710, 
probate  23 
March  (o.s.) 

1710 


Thomas  Law¬ 
rence  of  Wood- 
borough,  Wilts., 
Esq.,  Salter; 
mar  lie.  3  Ap. 
1662; she then  of 
St.  Sepulchre’s, 
London,  &  aged 
about  18  ;  bur. 
in  All  Hallows’,. 
Lombard  Street,. 
23  March  169J. 


A 

Pedigree  C. 


Sir  Dudley  Cullum,  3rd  Bart.,  of= 
Hawstead  aud  Hardwick  ;  born  and 
bap  at  Wickhambrook,  17  Sep.  1657; 
educated  at  St.  John’s  Coll.,  Camb.  ; 
High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk,  1690  ;  M  P. 
for  the  County,  1702  ;  d.  16  Sept. 
1720  and  buried  27  following  at  Haw¬ 
stead.  Will,  20  March  1715  ;  con¬ 
firmed  16  April  1716;  proved  17 
February  172?.  Ob.  s.p. 


=(1.)  The  Honourable  Anne  Berkeley,1 
only  da.  of  John,  Lord  Berkeley,  of 
Stratton  (sometime  Lord  Lieutenant  of 
Ireland  and  Gov.  to  James,  Duke  of 
York,  afterwards  King  James  II),  by 
Christian,  da.  of  Sir  Andrew  Riccard, 
widow  of  Henry  Rich,  Lord  Kensington  ; 
mar.  at  Berkeley  (now  Devonshire)  House, 
8  Sept.  1681 ;  bur.  at  Hawstead  2  June 
1709. 


=(2.)  Anne,  da.  of  James  Wicks,  Esq., 
of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  by  Dorothy, 
his  wife  ;  mar.  12  June  1710,  at 
Hawstead  ;  remarried  Rev.  John  Ful¬ 
ham,  Vicar  of  Isleworth,  Archdeacon 
of  Llandaff,  Canon  of  Windsor,  &c.  ; 
died  22  January  1737,  and  bur. 
at  Hawstead  3  Feb.  following,  aged 
52. 


(1.)  Henry  North,  Esq.,  of 
Beuacre  Hall,  co.  Suffolk  ; 
mar.  21  Jan.  1692  at  Haw¬ 
stead  :  died  16  Dec.  1701, 
aged  39  ;  bur.  at  Beuacre. 


Alary  Cullum,  bap.=-(2.)  Philip  Bedingfield,  Esq. 
at  Hawstead  6  Feb.  of  Broomstliorpe,  Norfolk 
1658  ;  died  31  Dec.  died  24  Oct.  1730,  aged  59 
1705  ;  bur.  at  Ben-  buried  in  Norwich  Cathedral, 
acre.  Ob.  s.p. 


Elizabeth  Cullum,  bap.  at=pThe 
Hawstead,  30  Marchl660; 
mar.  12  July  1692,  at 
Grundisburgli,  Suffolk; 
bur.  at  Kelsale,  13  May 
1706. 


Rev.  William  Boys, 
Rector  of  Grundisburgh, 
Suffolk,  1688-95  ;  of  Kel¬ 
sale,  Suff.,  1695,  till  his 
death,  12  Aug  1700  ;  bur. 
15  Aug.  at  Kelsale. 


Henry 

Dudley 

William  Boys  of  Cambridge, 

North  Boys, 

Dudley  Boys, 

North, 

North, 

bap.  29  April  1693,  at  Grun¬ 

b.  22  March  ; 

bap.  26  Aug, 

died 

died  in¬ 

disburgh  ;  died  unmarried  16 

bap.  3  April 

1694, at  Kelsale; 

infant; 

fant  ; 

Dec.  172§,  and  bur.  in  Great 

1696  ;  bur.  8 

alive  10  Oct. 

buried 

buried  at 

St.  Andrew’s,  Cambridge. 

Will,  13  July  1722,  proved  18 

Sept.  1696  ; 

1722,  and  de¬ 

atBen- 

Beuacre. 

all  at  Kelsale. 

scribed  as  of  Kel¬ 

acre. 

Feb  172|. 

sale,  spinster. 

Anne  Boys,  b.=William 
16  Aug.,  bapt.  Smith  of 
12  Sept.  1697,  Beccles, 
at  Kelsale  ;  “  fell- 

alive  and  mar-  monger.” 
ried  25  Aug. 

1722. 


— H 

Elizabeth 
Boys  ;  bap. 
19Feb.l69f 
at  Kelsale, 
&  bur.  there 
16  March 
following. 


X“ 


172 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ikUtgree  C. 


John  Cullum  of  London,  2d  surviving  son  of  Sir  Thomas  Cullum, =pAnna,  da.  of  Thomas  Lawrence  of  Woodborough,  Wilts.,  Esq. ;  mar. 


1st  Baronet,  of  Hawstead  Place  and  Hardwick  House,  Suffolk. 


n — i - 

John  (Jullum,  2d  son  ; 
aged  about  21  in  1687; 
dead  by  1715. 

Stephen  Cullum,  bap. 
27  Aug.  1675,  and  bur. 
30  Nov.  following,  both 
in  All  Hallows’,  Lom¬ 
bard  St. 

Stephen  Cullum,  bap. 
17  Dec.  1676,  in  All 
Hallows’,  Lombard  St. ; 
was  still  alive  in  16S7. 


- 1 - 

Anna- 
Cullum, 
bap.  10 
January 
167§.  at 
All  Hal¬ 
lows’, 
Lombard 
Street ; 
mar.  4 
Sep.  1694 
at  St. 
Bride’s. 


Abraham 
Foster  of 
High 
Laver 
Hall,  Es¬ 
sex,  and 
All  Hal¬ 
lows  the 
Great, 
London. 


Lawrence  Cullum, 
bap.  22  Feb.  16f-jj, 
at  St.  Helen’s,  Bis- 
hopsgate  ;  d.  unm. 
19  Nov.  1717,  and 
bur.  in  All  Hal¬ 
lows’,  Lombard 
Street.  Will,  6 
Jan.  171y  ;  cod.  21 
Oct.  1717  ;  prov. 
28  Nov.  1717,  by 
his  brothers  in 
law,  Foster  and 
Hays. 


JohnFos-  Mary=Lewis  Scawen,Esq.,  Sarah  Fos-=RichardMer- 
ter,  alive  Fos-  2nd  son  of  Sir  Tho-  ter,  alive  ryofS.Mich- 

Jan.l  71f.  ter.  mas  Scawen  ;  died  May  1736.  ael,  Cornhill, 

Aug  1740.  Merchant. 


lie.,  3  April  1662  ;  bur.  in  All  Hallows’,  Lombard  Street,  1699. 


Mary  Cul¬ 
lum,  bap.  17 
March  166f 
in  All  Hal¬ 
lows,  Lom¬ 
bard  St.  ; 
diedl9Nov. 
&  bur.  there 
24Nov.l681 
=John 
Sherbrook, 
merchantof 
St.  Peter’s, 
Cheap.  Mar. 
license  4 
Oct.  1681. 


- 1 - 

Deborah  Cul¬ 
lum,  bap.  1 
Jan.  167J,  at 
All  Hallows’, 
Lombard  St.; 
mar.  at  St 
Bride’s,  2  Feb. 
169f.  Of 
Loversell,  co. 
York,  10  Nov. 
1730.  Will 
pr.  3  Dec. 
1731  and  16 
Jan.  1732. 


Claude  Hays, 
Esq.,  Turkey 
Merchant,  son 
of  ClaudHaijs, 
by  Eleonore 
I  Cognat  d, 
French  Pro¬ 
testant  refu¬ 
gee,  son  of 
Claude  Haijs 
of  Calais  ;  b. 
19  Feb.  167j; 
bur.  in  Hack¬ 
ney  ch.,  16 
Sept.  1728. 


- m 

Elizabeth  Cullum, 
bap.  10  and  bur.  11 
Nov.  1667  both  in 
St.  Hellen’s,  Bis- 
hopsgate. 

Deborah  Cullum, 
bap.  7  Sept.  1671  ; 
bur.  23  Mar.  167*, 
both  in  All  Hal¬ 
lows’,  Lombard  St. 

Rebecca  Cullum, 
bap.  11  Nov.  1681, 
at  All  Hallows’, 
Lombard  St. 


Claude  Anna  Hays, 
Hays.  =...  Thorpe. 


Deborah  Hays,  bap.  11  Dec. 
1713,  at  Hackney. 


(1.)  Curtis,  da.  of: 
Henry  Hawley, Esq. , 
of  Brentford,  J.P., 
by  Alice,  his  wife  ; 
mar.  4  Jan.  1699, 
at  New  Brentford  ; 
died  8  Feb.  and  bur. 
14  Feb.  170?,  aged 
26,  at  Brentford. 


Thomas  Cullum  of=j-[2.]  Savilia,  da.  of  Colonel  John  Strode,  Governor  of  Sir  Jasper  Cullum, 4th  =j=Anne,  d.  and  h.  of 


Ealing,  Middx., bap. 
25  July  1665,  at 
All  Hallows’,  Lom¬ 
bard  Street ;  bur.  3 
Dec.  1717  at  Ealing. 
Will,  10  Nov.  1717, 
proved  3  Feb.  171 J, 
by  his  widow. 


Dover  Castle,  and  at  one  time  in  attendance  on  King 
CharlesII,  by  Mary,  da.  of  John  Sa vile  of  Methley,  Yorks, 
Esq.  She  was  cousin  to  her  husband,  Col.  Strode  being 
son  of  Sir  George  Strode,  Kt.,  of  Westerham,  Kent,  by 
Rebecca,  da.  of  Nicholas  Crispe.  Bap.  at  St.  Margaret's, 
Westminster,  7  Ap.  1680  ;  mar.  at  All  Hallows’,  Lom¬ 
bard  St.,  28  Aug.  1711 ;  bur.  at  Ealing  30  Jan.  17|$. 
Will,  6  Oct.  1729,  prov.  4  Feb.l7f$,  by  Richard  Merry, 
her  nephew  in  law. 


Baronet  of  Hawstead 
and  Hardwick  ;  bap. 
6  Aug.  1674,  iu  All 
Hallo  ws’, Lombard  St. ; 
mar.there27Jan.169f ; 
HighSheriff  of  Suffolk, 
1722  ;  bur.  in  Haw¬ 
stead  ch.,  8  Nov.  1754. 


William  Wyat, 
Esq.,  of  Bursel- 
don,  Hants,  by 
Anne,  his  wife, 
died  9  Feb.  173|, 
and  bur.  17  fol¬ 
lowing  in  Haw¬ 
stead  church. 


Anna  Cullum  of  Spring  Thomas 
Gardens,  Charing  Cross;  Cullum, 
born  29  Jan.,  bap.  7  Feb.  b.22Aug. 
170?,  at  Brentford  ;  bur.  bap.  4 
17  Feb.  173J  at  Brentford,  Sep.  1712 
unmar.  Will,  15  Jan.  1731,  at  Eal- 
proved  16  Feb.  173f,  by  ing,  but 
Francis  Cullum, Ensign  in  unmen- 
lst  Reg.  of  Foot  Guards  tioned  in 
(Grenadiers),  Groom  of  theRegis- 
H.M.’s  Privy  Chamber,  ter.  Ob. 
His  will,  13  July  1734,  infans, 
proved  8  March  173f. 


Savilia 
Cullum, 
b.  17  Jan. 
bap.  24 
Jan.  1713 
at  Ealing; 
buried 
there  1 8 
Ap.  1729. 


Catherine  Cullum 
of  Prescott  Street, 
Goodman’s  Fields, 
bom  Dec.  23,  bap. 
Dec.  25,  1714,  at 
Ealing ;  bur.  there 
31  Aug.  1737, 
unm.  Will,  8  May 
1736,  proved  25 
Aug.  1737,  by 
cousin,  Richard 
Merry, 


(2.)  Susanna,  da.  and=pSirJohnCullum,5thBaronet=p(l.)  Jane, da. &h. 


heir  of  Sir  Thomas 
Gery,  Knt.,  Master  in 
Chancery,  by  Elizabeth, 
granddau.  of  Sir  John 
Witte wronge,  Bart.,  of 
Rothamstead.  Herts.  ; 
mar.  at  Ely  Chapel, 
Holborn,  30  Nov.  1731; 
d.12  Nov.,  bur.  18  Nov. 
1783,  at  Hawstead, 
aged  71. 


Jasper  Cullum, 
b.  20  Oct.  1740, 
at  Hardwick, 
bap.  6  Nov. 
1740,  in  Hard¬ 
wick  Chapel  ; 
bur.  at  Haw¬ 
stead,  21  May 
1756. 


Henry  Cullum, 
born  10  June 
1746  ;  bap.  17 
June  following 
at  St.  Mary’s, 
Bury  St.  Ed- 
muuds ;  died  at 
sea,  1773,  on 
his  way  to  the 
East  Indies. 


Francis  Jacob 
Cullum,  b.  5 
Aug.  1747,  at 
Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds;  bap.  at 
St.Mary’s  there 
11  Sep.  follow¬ 
ing;  d.  young 
aboutl756;bur.- 
at  Hawstead. 


Anne  Cullum, 
born  at  Hard¬ 
wick,  11  May, 
bap.  there  29 
May  1735; 
bur.  at  Haw¬ 
stead,  20  July 
1745. 


Isabella  Cul¬ 
lum,  born  26 
July,  bap.  23 
Aug.  1738, 
both  atHard- 
wick;  died28 
March, ibur.  5 
Aprill806,at 
Hawstead. 


Mary  Cul¬ 
lum,  born  2 
Sep., bap.  30 
Sep.  1739, 
at  Hard¬ 
wick  ;  bur. 
29  March 
1744,  at 
Hawstead. 


of  Hawstead  and  Hardwick; 
bap.  at  SI.  Benet’s,  Grace- 
church  St.,  7  May  1699  ; 
died  16  Jan.  1774  ;  bur.  22 
Jan.  following  at  Hawstead. 
Will,  20  July  1773,  proved 
17  March  1774. 


of  Thomas  Deane 
of  Freefolk, 
Hants, Esq.  Mar. 
license,  6  July 
1728.  Died  Dec. 
1729;bur,14Dec. 
1729  at  Whit¬ 
church,  Hants. 


Jane  Cullum,  ob.  infans,  bur.  28  Jan.  1730,  at 
Hawstead.  Adm.  of  effects  as  of  Freefolk, 
Syfrywast,  co.  Southampton,  Spinster,  granted 
to  father  6  March  171$. 


- 1 

Susanna  Cullum,  = 
born  at  Hardwick, 
27  April,  bap. 
there  24  May  fol¬ 
lowing,  1737;  died 
12  Sep.  1829  at 
Bury  St.  Edmunds; 
bur.  30  Sep.  at 
Hawstead. 


-Ashley  Palmer,  Esq. ,  of 
EatonSocon,  Beds  ,  and 
of  the  Grey  Friars  Bab- 
well,  in  Fomham,  All 
Saints,  Suffolk;  mar.30 
Oct. 1775,  atSt.Mary’s, 
Bury  St.  Edmunds;  died 
22  May  1792  and  bur. 
28  May  following  at 
Hawstead,  s.p. 


Rev.SirJohn  Cullum,  6th- 
Baronet,  F.R.S.,  F.S.A., 
sometime  Fellow  of  St. 
Cath.  Hall,  Cambridge  ; 
Rector  of  Hawstead, April 
1762,  and  of  Great  Thur- 
low,  Suff.,  Dec.  1774. 
Born  21  June  &  bap.  18 
July  1733  at  Hawstead; 
died  at  Hardwick,  9  Oct. , 
bur.  15  Oct.  1785  at  Haw¬ 
stead.  Will,  1  Dec.  1784  ; 
codicil, 20ct. 1785;  proved 
7  Nov.  1785.  Sans  issue. 


=Peggy,  only  da.  of 
Daniel  Bisson,  Esq., 
of  West  Ham,  Essex; 
bap.  15  Feb.  173 J, 
at  Bromley  St. 
Leonard’s  ;  mar.  10 
July  1765,  at  West 
Ham  ;  died  at  Hard¬ 
wick,  2  Aug.  ;  bur. 
at  Hawstead,  8  Aug. 
1810,  s.p.  Will,  15 
March  1807,  pr.  23 
Aug.  1810. 


Sir  Thomas  Gery  Cullum, 
7th  Baronet,  F.RS., 
F.S.A.,  F.L.S.,  Bath  King 
of  Arms  ;  born  30  Nov. 
1741  ;  died  8  Sep.  1831  ; 
buried  at  Hawstead. 
—Mary,  da.  and  h.  of 
Robert  Hanson,  Esq., 
sister  and  coh.  of  Sir 
Levett  Hanson  ;  born  28 
Jan.  1745;  died  13  Sep. 
1830.  =p 

A 

Pedigree  D. 


Rev.  James  Cullum, 
Rector  of  Great  Thur- 
low,  Suff.,  1786.  and 
of  Nacton-cum-Seving- 
ton ;  born  25  Nov. 
1754;  died  25  Sep. 
1835.=Anne,  da.  and 
coh.  of  Anthony  Bla- 
grave,  Esq.  ;  mar.  19 
July  1786  ;  died  28 
Jan.  1856. 

=r 

A 

Pedigree  E. 


Jane  Cullum,  born 
29  March  1744; 
mar.  11  Dec.  1773, 
Henry  Vernon, 
Esq. ,  brother  to 
Francis  Vernon, 
Earl  of  Ship- 
brooke.  She  was 
his  second  wife. 
She  died  22  Oct. 
1826. 

T3 

A 

Pedigree  E. 


Mary  Cullum, 
bora  22  March 
1749  ;  died  6 
March  1 833 ; 
mar.  Abra¬ 
ham  Jenkin 
of  Long  Sut¬ 
ton,  Line., 
Esq.,  Clerk  of 
the  Peace  for 
Suffolk, 

T 

A 

Pedigree  E. 


CULLUM  OF  HAWSTEAD  AND  HARDWICK. 


173 


^etitcsree  2B. 


(1.)  Jaue,  da  and  heir  of=j=Sir  John  Cullum,  5th  Baronet  of  Hawstead= 


Thomas  Deane  of  Free- 
folk,  Hants.,  Esq.  ;  mar. 
1728  ;  died  Dec.  1729. 


and  Hardwick  ;  bap.  at  St.  Benet’s,  Grace- 
church  Street,  7  May  1699  ;  died  16  Jan.  1744  ; 
bur.  22  Jan.  following.  Will,  20  July  1773, 
proved  17  March  1774. 


A 


Susanna,  da.  and  heir  of  Sir  Thomas  Gery.  Kt.,  of 
Ealing,  Master  in  Chancery,  by  Elizabeth,  grandda. 
of  Sir  John  Wittewrong,  Bart.,  of  Rothamstead, 
Herts.  ;  mar.  at  Ely  Chapel,  Holborn,  30  Nov.  1731; 
d.  12  Nov.;  bur.  18  Nov.  1783,  at  Hawstead,  aged  71. 


Sir  Thomas  Gery  Cullum,  7t.h  Baronet,  F.  11. S.,  F.S.A.,  F.L.S.,: 
Bath  King  of  Arms  ;  several  times  Alderman  for  the  Borough 
of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  Born  30  Nov.  1741,  at  Hardwick; 
bap.  in  Hardwick  Chapel,  5  Jan.  1742  ;  ed.  at  Corpus  Ch. 
Coll.,  Camb. ;  died  in  Northgate  Street,  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
8  Sept.  1831  ;  bur.  13  following  at  Hawstead. 


=Mary,  only  da.  and  h.  of  Robert  Hanson  Esq.,  of  Normanton,  Yorks.,  by  Eliza-’ 
beth,  dau.  of  Edward  Isaac  Jackson.  Esq.,  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  She  was 
also  coh.  of  her  brother,  Sir  Levett  Hanson  of  Normanton,  Chamb.  to  Ercole 
III,  Rinaldo  d’Este,  Duke  of  Modena.  Born  28  Jan.  1745  ;  bap  1  March 
following  at  the  Low  Church,  Kingston-on- Hull ;  mar.  1  Sep.  1774,  at  St. 
Mary’s,  Bury  St.  Edmunds  ;  died  13  Sep.,  bur.  18  Sep.  1830  at  Hawstead. 


I - 

John  Cul¬ 
lum, born  16 
Oct.  1776  at 
Bury  St. 
Edmunds  ; 
bap.  at  St. 
Mary  there 
6  Feb.  1777; 
died  26 
Oct.  1778; 
bur.  at  Haw¬ 
stead,  29 
Oct.  follow¬ 
ing. 


T 


Rev.  Sir  Thomas  Gery  Cullum, = 
8th  and  last  Baronet,  F.S.A.  ; 
born  23  Oct-  1777,  at  Bury  St. 
Edmunds  ;  bap.  19  Dec.  fol¬ 
lowing  at  St.  Mary’s  there  ; 
ed.  at  Pembroke  Coll.  Camb.  ; 
sometime  Rector  of  Knodes- 
hall,  Suff.,  and  Chaplain  to 
H.R.H.  the  Duke  of  Sussex;  d. 
26  Jan.  at  Hardwick  ;  bur.  3 
Feb.  1855  at  Hawstead.  [He 
was  heir  to  the  name,  fortune, 
and  estates  of  his  cousin,  John 
Vernon,  Esq.,  but  predeceased 
Lady  Harland,  who  stood  first 
in  the  entail.] 


(1.)  Mary  Anne,  ouly=\2.)  Anue  Lloyd, 
da  and  heir  of  Henry  sister  to  William 
Eggers  of  Woodford, 

Essex,  Esq.  Of  a 
family  for  several 
centuries  of  Ham¬ 
burgh,  Germany. 

Mar.  27  Aug.  1805 
at  Woodford  ;  died 
at  Rue  d’Angonleme, 

St.  Honore,  Paris, 

29  Jan.  1830  ;  bur. 
at  Hawstead,  20  Feb. 
following,  aged  47. 


Hanford-Flood  of 
Flood  Hall,  Kil¬ 
kenny,  Esq.  ;  mar. 
30  April  1832  at 
St.  Mary’s,  Mary- 
lebone ;  died  17 
Feb.  1875,  at 
Hardwick  ;  bur. 
23  Feb.  following 
at  Hawstead. 


John  Palmer  Cul-— Sarah  Mantle, 
lum,  Bath  King  of  mar.  23  April 
Arms,  born  18  May  1809,  at  St. 
1783,  at  Bury  St.  Martin  in  the 
Edmunds  ;  bap.  at  Fields,  Lou- 
St.  Mary’s  there,  don  ;  d.  s  p. 
19  June  following,  at  11,  Lower 
Alderman  of  Bury  Belgrave 
St.  Edmunds,  Place,  Lon- 
1829;  died  20  Aug.  don,  4  Oct. 
1829  at  Bury  St.  1840  ;  bur.  9 
Edmunds  ;  bur.  following  in 
25  Aug.  following,  Kensal  Green 
at  Hawstead,  s.p.  Cemetery. 


Susanna  Cul¬ 
lum,  b.  3 
March  1787, 
atBurySt.Ed- 
munds  ;  bap. 
at  St.  Mary’s 
there  23  July 
1788  (having 
been  privately 
bap.  11  March 
1787) ;  d.  20 
May  1805,  in 
London,  and 
bur.  in  the 
Gery  vault  at 
Ealing. 


Susanna  Arethusa  Cullum,  only  child,  bom  11  January=j=The  Right  Honourable  Thomas  Milner-Gibson  of  Theberton  House,  Suffolk  ;  born 
1814,  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds;  privately  bap.  16 
following  ;  received  in  the  congregation  at  Hardwick 
15  Oct.  1815  ;  married  23  Feb.  1832  at  Hawstead; 
died  23  Feb.  1885  at  11,  Avenue  du  Bois  de  Boulogne, 

Paris,  and  bur.  3  March  following  in  the  Cemetery, 

Bury  St.  Edmunds. 


Thomas  Gibson, 
born,  died  and 
buried  22  Dec. 
1833  at  Theber¬ 
ton. 


Thomas  Dudley  Milner-Gibson, 
born  16  Aug.  1845  at  50  Wilton 
Crescent,  London  ;  bap.  30  Oct. 
following  at  St.  Peter’s,  Eaton 
Sq.;  educated  at  King’s  College, 
London  ;  died  6  Sept.  1863  at 
Whampoa, China;  bur.  in  Happy 
Valley  Cemetery,  Hong  Kong. 


3  Sept.  1806  at  Port  of  Spain,  Trinidad,  West  Indies,  and  bap.  8  Nov.  following  by 
the  Brigade  Chaplain  ;  ed.  at  the  Charterhouse  and  Trin.  Coll.,  Camb.  (Wrangler)  ; 
M.P.  for  Ipswich,  1837-39  ;  for  Manchester,  1841-57  ;  and  for  Ashton-under-Lyne, 
1857-68  •  Vice-President  of  the  Board  of  Trade,  1846-48  ;  and  President  of  the 
same,  1859-66  ;  one  of  Her  Majesty’s  Privy  Council,  and  an  Elder  Brother  of  the 
Trinity  House  Corporation.  Died  25  Feb.  1884,  on  board  his  yacht  at  Algiers,  and 
bur.  13  March  following  at  Theberton. 


- r- - - - 

Oliver  Francis  Milner- 
Gibson.  b.  31  Dec.  1850 
at  50,  Wilton  Crescent; 
bap.  4  June  1851  at  St. 
Peter’s,  Eaton  Sq.  ;  d, 
at  Hampstead  10  Ap. 
1859  and  bur.  at 
Theberton. 


Florence  Arethusa 
Milner-Gibson  ;  b  13 
March  1839  at  48, 
Eaton  Sq. ;  bap.  29 
July  following  at  St. 
Peter’s,  Eaton  Sq.  ;  d. 
Oct.  19  and  bur.  25  at 
Theberton. 


Sydney  Isabella  Milner- 
Gibson;  born  28  Sept.  1849 
at  50,  Wilton  Crescent ; 
bap.  5  Dec.  following  at 
St.  Peter’s,  Eaton  Sq.  ;  died 
30  Sept.  1880  at  Hardwick, 
and  bur.  5  Oct.  following 
at  Hawstead. 


Anne,  da.= 
of  Charles 
Dixon, Esq., 
and  widow 
of  William 
Stocken, 

Esq.  Mar.at 
Algiers,  20 
Dec.  1893. 
Seeond 
wife. 


: Jasper  Joseph  Alexander=pElizabeth  Isidore, 


Milner-Gibson  ofTheber- 
ton  House,  Suffolk:  born 
23  Feb.  1852  at  50',  Wil¬ 
ton  Crescent,  and  bap.  7 
June  1854  at  St.  Peter’s, 
Eaton  Sq.  ;  educated  at 
Eton.  Died  2  Ap.1898  at 
the  Hotel  de  Paris, Monte 
Carlo,  Monaco; cremated 
the  9th  following,  and 
bur.  at  Woking. 


d.  of  Hon.  Geo. 
Parsons  of  Colum¬ 
bus,  Ohio,  U.S.A. 
Mar.  17  Dec.  1874 
at  Marylebone 
Parish  Church  ; 
died  6  Dec.  1889, 
bur.  13  following 
at  Theberton. 
First  wife. 


GeorgeGeryMilner-Gibson  Cullum, 
F.S.A., of  Hardwick  House, Suffolk; 
ed.  at  Trin,  Coll.  Camb.  ;  B.A., 
1880  ;  M.A.,  1881;  born  5  Nov. 
1857,  at  49  Wilton  Crescent ;  bap. 
22  J  uly  1 858,  at  St.  Paul’s,  Knights- 
bridge.  Succeeded  1875  to  estates 
of  Hardwick  and  Hawstead,  and 
granted  by  Royal  Sign  Manual 
names  and  arms  of  Cullum,  13 
Dec.  1878.  High  Sheriff  of  Suf¬ 
folk,  1888-89. 


Mary  Miluer-Gib-=rWilliam  Wybrow 
Robertson,  Esq., 
of  E.I.C.S.,  young- 


- 1 

Alice 

son,  born  1  June  1843, 
at  50,  Wilton  Crescent ;  i 
bap.  20  July  following  at  j  est  son  of  General 

St.  Peter’s,  Eaton  Sq.  ; . 

mar.  atMaryleboneParish 
Church,  20  July  1861  ; 
died  20  Aug.  1879,  and 
bur.  at  Gosberton,  Lin-  pany,  by  Giovanna 


Archibald  Robert¬ 
son,  one  of  the 
Directors  of  the 
East  India  Com- 


colnshire.  She 
second  wife. 


was  his 


Goodhew,  his 
wife  ;  born  10  Dec. 
1834. 


May  Bessie  Isabella  Milner  Gibson,  only 
child,  born  at  West  Cowes,  Isle  of  Wight, 
1  May  1876,  and  died  at  28,  Rue  Galilee 
Paris,  24  Nov.  of  same  year  ;  bur.  in 
Cemetery  of  St.  Germain-en-Laye. 


SydneyCather- 
ine  Milner  Rob¬ 
ertson,  mar.  at 
Hawstead  9 
June  1897. 


= William 
Horn- 
castle, 
Esq. 


Margaret  Alice=f Reginald  Gurney,  eldest  son  of  Francis 
Hay  Gurney  of  Thickthorn,  Norfolk, 
Esq.,  by  Margaret  Charlotte,  dau.  of  Sir 
William  Browne  ffolkes  of  Hillington, 
Norfolk,  Baronet. 


Maud  Robertson, 
mar.  at  Hawstead 
31  Oct.  1889. 


Arethusa 

Mary 

Robert- 


Hugh  Gurney,  born,  privately  baptized  and  died  at  Eastgate  House,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  22  May  1896. 
Buried  at  Hawstead  the  day  following. 


174 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


^ebtgree  <£. 


(1.)  Jane,  da. and  heir  of=pSir  John  Cullum,  5th  Baronet,  of  Hawstead=p(2).  Susanna,  da.  and  heir  of  Sir  Thomas  Gery,  Kt.,  Master 


Thomas  Deane  of  Free- 
folk,  HaDts,  Esq.,  mar. 
1728;  d.  Dec.  1729. 


and  Hardwick  ;  bap.  at  St.  Benet’s,  Grace- 
church  Street,  7  May  1699  ;  died  16  Jan. 
1774  ;  bur.  22  Jan.  following.  Will,  20  July 
/^1773,  proved  17  Mar.  1774. 


in  Chancery,  by  Elizabeth,  granddau.  of  Sir  John  Witte- 
wronge,  Bart.,  of  Rotliamstead,  Herts.  ;  mar.  at  Ely  Chapel, 
Holborn,  30  Nov.  1731  ;  d.  12  Nov.  ;  bur.  18  Nov.  1783  at 
Hawstead,  aged  71. 


Jane  Cullum,  boriin=Henry  Vernon,  Esq.,  of  Great  Thurlow,  Abraham  Jenkin  of  Long=f  Mary  Cullum, born  Rev.  James  Cullum=pAnne,  da. 


29  Mar.  1744  at 
BurySt.Edmunds; 
d.  22  Oct.  1826  at 
Bury  St .  Edm  unds ; 
bur.  30  Oct.  follow¬ 
ing  at  Great  Thur¬ 
low.  She  was  his 
second  wife. 


Suff.,  and  also  of  Hough  on  the  Hill, 
Lincoln,  by  right  of  his  1st  wife  ;  brother 
to  Francis  Vernon,  Earl  of  Sliipbrooke, 
son  of  Right  Hon  James  Vernon,  by  Lady 
Aretliusa,  granddau.  of  Richard,  Earl  of 
Burlington  ;  born  22  Feb.  1717  ;  mar.  1 
Dec.  1773  at  St.  Mary's,  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds;  d.  at  Lille,  Flanders.  18  Dec.,  bur. 
Great  Thurlow  31  Dec.  1776. 


Sutton.  Lincoln,  Esq., 
Clerk  of  the  Peace  for 
County  of  Suffolk,  and 
Alderman  of  the  Borough 
of  Bury  St.  Edmunds ; 
died  there 2 June  1807, and 
bur.  9  following  at  Haw¬ 
stead.  Will,  12  Ap  1806, 
proved  30  June  1807. 


Henry  Vernon,  John  Vernon  of  Great  Thurlow 
born  9  March  and  Wherstead  Lodge,  Suff.,  and 
1775  ;  bap.  8  at  one  time  also  of  Orwell  Park 
May  1775  at  in  same  county;  born  8  Junel776 
GreatThurlow;  at  Lille  in  Flanders  ;  bap.  6  Feb. 
educated  at  1777  at  St.  Mary’s,  Bury  St.  Ed- 
Eton,  and  died  rounds, at  same  time  as  his  cousin 
16  March  1787  John  Cullum;  educated  at  Eton; 
at  Bury  St.  Ed-  was  Lieut.-Colonel  of  the  1st 
munds;  bur.  22  Regt.  of  East  Suff  Militia  ;  died 
Mar.  following  25  May  1818  at  Brighton  ;  bur. 
at  Great  Thur-  4  June  following  at  Great  Thur¬ 
low.  low.  Will,  21  June  1815,  proved 

23  July  1818.  Unmarried. 


- 1 

Arethusa 


Vernon, =Sir  RobertHar- 
boru  posthumous  at  land,  Baronet 
Bury  St.  Edmunds  1  of  Wherstead 
July  1777  and  bap.  1  Lodge,  Suffolk, 
Aug.  following  in  St. .  born  1 6  Oct. 
Mary’s  church  there ;  1765;  Sheriff ,of 

mar.  26  May  1801  at  County  of  Suf- 
St.  James’, Piccadilly,  folk,  1822;  died 
Succeeded  her  bro-  18  Aug.  and 
theratGreatThurlow  bur.  25  follow- 
&c.;  died  30  March  ing  1848  at 
1860,  s.p.  ;  bur.  at  Wherstead, s.p. 
Wherstead  5  April 
following. 


22  March  1749  at 
BurySt.Edmunds; 
bap.  19  April  1750 
atSt.  Mary’s  there; 
mar.  there  12  Feb. 
1787;  died  6  March 
1833  at  Staindrop, 
co.  Durham,  and 
buried  there. 


Frederick 
Jenkin,  b.  10 
March  1792 
bap.  6  Nov. 
following  at 
St.  Maiy’s, 
Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds.  Lost 
in  the  “Glory” 
East  India- 
man. 


3dson,boru25Nov. 
1754  at  Bury  St. 
Edmunds  ;  Rector 
of  Great  Thurlow, 
Suff.,  1786, &ofNac- 
ton-cum-Leving- 
ton,  same  county  ; 
d.25Sep.  1835;  bur. 
atChelsworth,Suff. 
- 1 

George  Henry 
Jenkins,  Lieut. 
R.N.,  born  8 
July  1793  ;  bap. 

8  June  1799  at 
St.  Mary’s,  Bury 
St.  Edmunds  ; 
died  unm.  12 
Jan.  1831  at 
Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds. 


Mary  Anne  SusannaJenkin=Rev.JohnWil- 
Jenkin,  b.  b.13  June  1789,  liam  Drage 
21  Feb.1788;  bap.  29  Oct  fob  Merest,  born 
bap.  21  Feb.  lowing  at  St.  10  June  1789; 
1789  at  St.  Mary’s, Bury  St.  sometime 
Mary's,  Bury  Edmunds;  mar.  Vicar  of  Wem, 
StEdmunds;  there  20  Feb.  Salop;  Rector 
died  unm.  30  1810;  died  27  of  Staindrop, 
Aug.  1807,  April  1842  at  Durham, 1810. 
and  bur.  3  Staindrop,  co.  M.P.  for  11- 
Sep.  follow-  Durham,  and  Chester,  1818. 
ing  at  Haw-  there  buried, 
stead.  Died  s.p. 


The  Very  Rev.  Charles  Jeu-=(l.)EmilyMar-~(2.)  Katherine^  3.  )SarahGrace,  da. 


kin  (Vernon), D.D., born  30 
July  1790  at  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds;  bap.  at  St.  Mary's 
there  19  Oct.  following  ; 
Rector  of  Herriugswell, 
Suff.,  &c  ,  1827-60,  when  he 
succeeded  to  name&estates 
of  his  cousin  Vernon  by 
Royal  License  dated  1 3  Ap. 
1860;  died220ct  1863, and 
bur.  in  Upperby  church¬ 
yard,  Cumberland,  s,p. 


tha.da  of  Wil¬ 
liam  Walker, 
Esq., of  Barton 
Mills,  Suff, 
Esq.,  mar  29 
May  1827  at 
Barton  Mills  ; 
died  19  Nov. 
1845  ;  bur.  at 
Stradishall, 
Suffolk. 


Mary,  3d  da.  of 
Rev.  John  Horn- 
fray  of  Sutton, 
Norf.,and  widow 
of  DavidMignot, 
M.D., of  Jamaica; 
mar.  at  St. 
Luke’s,  Chelsea, 
15  Feb.  1849;  d. 
at  Herringswell 
30  March  1859, 
and  bur.  there. 


of  John  Fawcett, 
Esq.,  of  Petteril 
Bank, Cumberland, 
wid.  of  Edmund 
Lumley  Haworth, 
Esq.,  of  28th  Reg.; 
mar.  2  Dec.  1862  in 
Carlisle  Cathedral; 
remar.  Cap t  Harris 
St.  John  Dick,  2d 
Dragoon  Guards, 
22  June  1865. 


&  coh.  of 
Anthony 
Blagrave, 
Esq.;  and 
niece  of 
J  ohn  Bla¬ 
grave  of 
Calcot 
Place, 
Berks.  ; 
mar.  at 
Tilehurst 
Berks  , 

19  July 
1786  ;  d. 
28  Jan. 
1856  and 
bur.  at 
Chels- 
worth. 


Anne  Cullum,  born  May  1788  ;=(1.)  Don  Juan  de  Men -=p(2.)  Paul  Christophe  Elizabeth  Merlin,  Chef  d’ Escadron 


died  28  Sept.  1874,  at  Chateau 
de  Bruyeres,  Vosges,  France  ; 
bur.  at  Fonday,  Ban  de  la  Roche, 
Alsace. 


doza  Rios  ;  mar.  12 
May  1816  at  St.  Paul’s, 
Co  vent  Garden  ;  d.  s.p. 


Antoine  Honore  Gonzale  Merlin,1 
born  at  Paris  31  Oct.  1825  ;  Sous 
Prefet  of  Castel  Sarrazin  (Tam  et 
Garonne) ;  died  30  June  1858. 


Marie  Augusta,  da. 
of  Mr.  Gustave  Lehr 
of  Alsace  ;  married 
21  Aug.  1854. 


d’Artillerie,  son  of  the  celebrated  Antoine  Cristophe 
Merlin  de  Thionville  member  of  the  Convention  ;  born 
18  Dec.  1779  ;  purchased  Bruyeres  ;  died  9  Sept.  1864  ; 
I  bur.  at  Fonday,  Ban  de  la  Roche,  Alsace, 
r 


Arethusa  Galatea 
Cullum,  born  1789  ; 
died  unmarried  Sep. 
1812. 


Paul  Cristophe 
Elizabeth  Mer¬ 
lin  ;  ob,  infans. 


Henri  Marie  Gouzale  Merlin  of  the=pMarie,  dau.  of 


Ministry  of  the  Interior  ;  born  at 
Bruveres,  18  Nov.  1828  ;  mar.  25 
July  1855. 


Jean  Chdri  Roux, 
Officer  of  Ar¬ 
tillery. 


Paul  Isaac  Roger  Merlin, =f-Emilie,  da.  of  Mr.  Emile  Gros- 


of  Bruydres,  Vosges,  born 
at  Cannes,  22  Jan.  1858  ; 
mar.  at  Paris  12  Nov.  1884. 


jean  of  Mulhausen,  Alsace,  by 
his  wife,  Louisa  Siegfried  ; 
born  30  May  1862, 


Paul  Louis  Raoul  Merlin,  born  at 
Paris  23  Aug.  1862.  Sous  officer 
in  134th  Reg.  of  Line,  1885  ;  Sub- 
Lieut.,  90tli  Reg.  of  Line,  1889. 


Jeanne  Elizabeth=j=Capt.  Lucien  Mor- 


Merlin,  born  at 
Paris  23  Aug.1858; 
mar.  10  May  1880. 


Henri  Merlin  born 
at  Bruydres,  3  July 
1890. 


Madeleine  Augusta  Mer¬ 
lin,  born  at  Paris,  22 
Sept.  1885. 


Genevieve  Violette  Merlin, 
born  at  Bruyeres  2  April 
1893  (Easter  Day). 


Suzanne  Mortagne,  born 
at  Nancy  14  Feb.  1881. 


tague  of  1st  Reg.  of 
Engineers  ;  since 
Commandant  at 
Commercy  (Meuse). 
1 


H  enri  Mortagne,  born 
at  Commercy  10  Dec. 
18S6. 


The  Arms  of  Cullum  of  Hawstead  are  Azure,  a  chevron  ermine  between  three  pelicans  or,  vulr.iug  themselves  proper.  Crest — 
A  lion  sejant  or,  supporting  between  the  paws  a  column  argent,  the  capital  gold.  Motto — “  Sustineatur.” 

The  very  numerous  wills,  grants,  extracts  from  parish  registers,  &c.,  upon  which  the  above  pedigrees  are  founded,  have  appeared 
in  “Miscellanea  Genealogiea  et  Heraldica,”  Second  and  Third  Series,  and  are  being  privately  reprinted,  with  illustrations  and  addenda, 
by  Mr.  G.  Milner-Gibson  Cullum,  F.S.A.  Much  respecting  the  family  will  be  found  in  the  well-known  “  History  of  Hawstead,”  by  the 
Rev.  Sir  John  Cullum,  Bart.,  F.R.S.,  F.S.A.,  and  in  the  “History  of  Thingoe  Huudred,”  by  John  Rokewode  Gage. 


* 


CULLUM  OF  HAWSTEAD  AND  HARDWICK. 


]  75 


Cullum  of  tfje  2|tU,  Cfjornbon. 


.  Cullum. = 


John  Cullum,  of  the  Hill,  Thorndon,  buried  4  March  1573" 
at  Thorndon.  Will,  22  Feb.  1573,  proved  27  Ap.  1574. 


James  Cullum,  alive 
22  February  1573. 


John  Cullum  of  the  Hill,-pMarg;aret,  dau.  of  Thomas  Frere  of  Occolt,  Suif .,  Esq., 


Thorndon,  executor  to  his 
father  ;  born  1 52| ;  bur. 
19  July  1625  atThorndon, 
in  his  100  th  year. 


by  Margaret,  dau.  of  Edward  Bacon  of  Hessett,  Suffolk, 
Esq.  Mrs.  Cullum  was  aunt  to  Tobias  Frere  of  Harles- 
ton,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  Norfolk.  Mar.  7  Aug.  1570  at 
Thorndon  ;  bur.  14  March  1611  at  Thorndon. 


Sibly  Cullum. 
=(1.)  RogerBotye. 
=(2.)  .  .  .  Mow- 
ling. 


Jane  Cullum, 
buried  8  Jan. 
1562,  at 
Thorndon. 


Mary 

Cullum. 

Botye. 


John  Cullum,  Thomas  Cullum,  of  the  Hill,  Thorndon,  Gent.  ,=r Alice  .  .  .  bur. 
twin  with  Grace  bapt.  there  19  Nov.  1573.  Will,  21  March  1637,  1  April  1657 
Cullum,  bapt.  1 0  proved  21  Oct.  1643,  by  relict.  Left  his  pro- 
May  1566  at  perty  to  his  mother’s  relations,  Thomas  Frere 
Thorndon  ;  bur.  and  Tobias  Frere,  M.P.  Mentions  Sir  Thomas 
there  5  Ap.1612.  Cullum,  1st  Baronet,  whose  godfather  he  was. 


at  Thorndon. 
Will,  25  Aug. 
1655,  proved  1 
May  1657. 


Edmund  Cullum,  bapt. 
27  Nov.  1575  at  Thorn¬ 
don;  alive  1581, as  appears 
by  will  of  Thomas  Frere 
of  Occolt ;  bur.  26  Aug. 
1588,  at  Thorndon. 


Thomas  Cullum.  only  son,  bapt.  3  Dec.  1611,  at  Thorndon, 
and  bur.  there  16  Feb.  1636. 


i$ttltter=6tb0on  of  Cijeberton. 


— i 

Grace 
Cullum, 
executrix 
to  father, 
1574. 


GraceCullum, 
bapt.  10  May 
1566atThorn- 
don  ;  bur. 
there  13  May 
following. 


Grace  Cul¬ 
lum,  bapt.  19 
Oct.  1569  at 
Thorndon  ; 
bur.  there 
16  Oct.  1639. 


Rev.  Thomas  Gibson  of  Flyford  Flavell,  Worcester  (son  of  Thomas  Gibson  of  Fladbury,  co.  Wor-= 
cester)  ;  born  cir.  1672;  mat.  Balliol  Coll.,  Oxford,  aet.  15,  1687;  B.A.,  1691.  Vicar  of 
Broadway,  Worcester,  1693-6,  and  Flyford  Flavell,  1716-17.  Described  as  of  Pershore,  1720. 


Rev.  Thomas  Gibson,  Curate  of  Ramsey,  Essex,  1724;  Inducted=j=Susanna,dau.  of  John 


Vicar  of  Ramsey,  26  Feb.  1728  ;  Vicar  of  Dovercourt-cum-Harwich, 
4  April  1733.  Died  19  Dec.  1779,  aged  80  years.  (Succeeded  to 
the  property  of  his  friend,  Robert  Milner,  Esq  ,  of  Ipswich,  with 
remainder  to  his  son,  Thomas  Gibson,  under  Will,  19  Oct.  1762, 
proved  2  May  1763  )  Will,  10  Dec.  1779,  proved  1  March  1780. 
Buried  at  Dovercourt. 


Blacksell  of  Ramsey, 
Essex,  Gentleman,  by 
Susan, his  wife.  Died 
18  Nov.  1779,  aged 
75  years;  buried  at 
Dovercourt. 


Rev.  Anthony  Gibson,  born- 
cir.  1703  ;  matric.  at  Balliol 
Coll.,  Oxford,  15  Feb.  1720, 
aged  17  :  B. A.,  1724.  Will, 
“of  Teudriug,  Essex,”  26 
May  1777,  pr.  2  Sept.  1784. 
Sans  issue. 


:Sarali,  da.  of  .  .  . 
and  widow  of 
Richard  Vesey  of 
Tendring,  Essex, 
Farmer.  Will,  29 
Nov.  1784,  pr.  12 
Feb.  1789. 


The  Rev.  Thomas  Gibson,  born  14  Dec.  1724  ;=f=Elizabeth,  dau.  of 


bapt.  11  January  1725  at  Ramsey  ;  matriculated 
at  Balliol  Coll.,  Oxford,  14  July  1743  ;  B.A.,  1747; 
M.A.,  1750  ;  Curate  to  his  father,  and  afterwards 
Vicar  of  White  parish,  Wilts.  Died  17  Oct.  1797, 
at  Ipswich  and  buried  at  St.  Helen’s  church  in 
that  town. 


Thomas  Wood  of  Kirby 
le  Soken,  by  Martha, 
his  wife  ;  bapt.  20  Sept. 
1 73  2  at  Kirby  le  Soken ; 
mar.  at  Kirby  le  Soken, 
Essex,  11  Dec.  1753. 


John  Gibson  of  Har¬ 
wich,  Surgeon,  bapt. 
11  July  1727  at  Ram¬ 
sey  ;  died  intestate 
27  Aug.  1773  ;  bur. 
31  Aug.  following  at 
Dovercourt. 


=Sarah,  dau.  of  .  .  .  Chandler,  and 
widow  of  Baker  Phillips,  Esq.,  whom 
she  had  married,  31  July  1742,  in 
Gosport  Chapel,  Alverstone,  Hants., and 
whose  will,  dated  16  July  1745,  was 
proved  1 9  Sept,  following.  Her  second 
marriage  was  at  St.  Peter’s,  Colchester, 
9  January  175?. 


Thomas  Milner  Gibson,  bapt.  28  April=f=lsabella,  da,:=p(2).  William 
1767  at  Ramsey  ;  Cornet  in  2nd  Dragoon  of  Henry  Whiting  Woot- 


Guards  (the  Queen’s  Bays),  28  May  1790  ; 
Lieut,  in  same,  21  Dec.  1791  ;  Capt.  of 
an  Independent  Regt.  of  Foot,  21  June 
1793;  Major,  29  April  1S02  (Army  rank)  ; 
Capt.  (Regimental  rank),  21  March  1806, 
in  37th  (Royal  Hampshire)  Regiment. 
Mar.  17  January  1798  at  St.  James, 
Piccadilly  ;  died  23  May,  and  bur.  30 
following  at  Pentonville  Chapel,  Lon 
don. 


Glover,  Esq., 
of  Chester  ; 
died  3  Jan. 
1856,  &  bur. 
10  Jan.  fol¬ 
lowing  at 
Theberton, 
Suffolk. 


ton,  Esq.,  Cap¬ 
tain  in  West 
Suffolk  Militia; 
mar.  30  July 
1810,  ;  died  6 
May  1844,  and 
bur.  11  follow¬ 
ing  at  Theber¬ 
ton,  s.p. 


Thomas  Gib¬ 
son,  Lieut,  in 
63rd  Regi¬ 
ment  of  Foot, 
21  Jan.  1778, 
until  his  death 
while  serving 
with  it  in 
America,  Nov. 
1780,  unm., 
s.p. 


JohnGibson  of  Ipswich, Esq., =f=Annabella,da.of  Rev. 


2d  son, Chairman  of  Quarter 
Sessions  ;  twice  nominated 
High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk, 1835 
and  1836,  but  did  not  serve. 
(See  “  Ipswich  Journal,” 
“  Gent.Mag.”  1840  &“  Mar¬ 
garet  Catchpole,”  for  men¬ 
tion  of  this  eccentric 
character.)  Died  Ap.  1640, 
aud  was  bur.  in  St.  Helen’s 
ch.,  Ipswich,  16  Ap.  1840. 


Richard  Broome, Per¬ 
petual  Curate  of  St. 
Lawrence,  Ipswich, 
Rector  of  Knodeshall, 
Suft.,  and  Newton, 
Norff.  ;  mar.  at  St. 
MaryTower,  Ipswich, 
6  June  1794 ;  died  1 7 
March  1835 ;  buried 
25March  following  at 
St.  Helen’s,  Ipswich. 


The  Right  Honourable  Thomas  Milner-Gibson,  only  child,  born=pSusanna  Arethusa,  only  child  of 
3  Sept.  1806,  at  Port  of  Spain,  Trinidad,  West  Indies,  and  bap.  I  Rev.  Sir  Thomas  Gery  Cullum, 
by  Brigade  Chaplain  there  8  Nov.  Took  the  additional  name  of  8th  &  last  Baronet  of  Hawstead 
Milner  by  Royal  License,  7  Feb.  1839.  Married  at  Hawstead  23  \  and  Hardwick,  Suffolk  ;  born  11 
Feb.  1832;  died  25  Feb.  1884,  at  Algiers.  See  Cullum.  /(\Januaryl814.  Died  23  Feb.1885. 

For  issue,  see  Cullum. 


Annabella  Gibson,  only  child,  bapt. 
at  St.  Mary  Tower,  Ipswich,  3  May 
1795  ;  died,  unmarried,  7  June 
1831  ;  bur.  in  St.  Helen’s,  Ipswich, 
aged  36,  on  15  June  following. 


Arms  of  Milner-Gibson  : — Azure,  three  bridle  bits  chevronwise  Or,  between  as  many  storks  rising  Argent, 
close  Argent,  holding  in  the  beak  a  branch  of  laurel  proper  and  resting  the  dexter  claw  on  a  bridle  bit  Or. 


Crest  : — A  stork 


J&oltoero  of 


Armorial  Hearings. 

At  the  Visitation  of  Suffolk  in  1612,  by  Raven,  Camden’s  deputy,  the  Arms  allowed  to 
“John  Boldero  of  Berry,  descended  from  William  Boldero  of  Fornham  Martin,”  were — “Per  pale,  or 
and  azure,  a  saltire  counterchanged,  with  a  crescent  for  difference.”  The  Crest  of  “  Bolderoe  per 
Cooke,  Cla:  6  of  September  1576,  18  of  Eliz.,”  as  tricked  by  Raven  in  his  note  book,  Harl. 

MS.  1820,  fo.  45b,  was  “  a  greyhound  current  gules,  collared  or.”  At  fo.  2,  is  a  drawing  of  the 

Arms  of  “  Boldero  and  his  wife  Tilliote,”  viz.,  Boldero,  with  the  crescent,  impaling  “  Argent,  a  lion 
rampant  gules,  over  all  a  bend  azure.”  The  original  shield,  without  the  crescent,  and  the  crest  of 
1576,  will  be  found  upon  Boldero  monuments  at  Ixworth,  and  on  the  brass  of  George  Boldero  in  St. 
Mary’s  Church,  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  They  are  still  used  by  his  descendants  ;  some  of  whom,  however, 

about  the  close  of  the  eighteenth  century,  changed  the  crest  to  a  greyhound  sejant.  The  escutcheon 

on  the  monument  to  Dr.  Edmund  Boldero,  in  Jesus  College  Chapel,  Cambridge,  who  was  the 
seventh  son  of  “John  Boldero  of  Berry,”  is  charged,  as  might  have  been  expected,  with  the 
crescent  allowed  to  his  father. 

Another  Coat  of  Arms  recorded  in  the  Heralds’  College,  but  not  in  the  Visitation  of  1612, 
was  granted  to  Francis  Boldero  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  who  died  in  1579,  “  Per  pale,  argent  and 
azure,  a  saltire  counterchanged;  on  a  chief  of  the  first  three  griffins’  heads  erased  of  the  last.” 
Harl.  MS.  1820,  gives  the  colours  of  this  Shield  as  or  and  azure,  together,  with  a  special  Crest, 
“  A  lion’s  gamb  erased  or,  grasping  a  saltire  azure.” 

Drawings  of  the  Arms  and  Crest  of  “John  Boldero,”  above-mentioned,  will  be  found  in 
Harl.  MS.  1449,  fo.  71b,  and  in  Add.  MS.  5524,  fo.  18b. 


Wall  of  (Elijabetlj  Ccggosball,  1557. 

Elizabeth  Cocksall  of  fornham  Seint  Martin,  widowe,  the  late  wyf  of  Roger  Cocksall  of  fornham, 
gent.  10th  Octobre  1557.  Vnto  Fraunces  Baldero  my  sonne  301.  To  Edmund  Boldero  my  sonne 
431  6s  8d.  V  nto  Thomas  Boldero  my  sonne  201,  three  skore  ewes,  three  skore  shepe,  and  three 
skore  hogg  shepe,  also  coppye  tenement  Ac.  in  fornlrhn.  Vnto  John  Cocksall  my  sonne  twoe  hundreth 
ewe  shepe  and  one  hundreth  of  hogge  shepe  &c.  Vnto  John  Boldero  my  sonne  all  my  lands 
except  those  before  giuen  vnto  the  said  Thomas  Boldero.  To  John  Cage  my  sonne  in  lawe, 
Lewes  Cage,  sonne  of  said  John,  at  his  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares,  and  Cicylye  Cage  mother 


BOLDERO  OF  FORNHAM. 


177 


of  said  Lewis.  To  John  Gippes,  sonne  of  Richarde  Gippes  late  of  Barton  deceased,  at  his  age  of 
one  and  twentie  yeares  ;  George  Gippes  brother  of  said  John  ;  Elizabeth  Gippes  my  doughter’s 
doughter ;  Anne  Gippes  my  donghter’s  dough  ter  ;  Agnes  Pleasance  my  doughter  and  Cicylye  Cage 
my  doughter  Vnto  Fraunces  Boldero  sonne  of  Thomas  Boldero  my  sonne,  Elizabeth  Boldero 
doughter  of  said  Thomas  my  sonne,  Elizabeth  Hornigold,  wyfe  of  John  Hornigold  of  fornh’lm  Sainct 
Martin  and  to  Elizabeth  Hornigold  her  doughter.  To  the  sonnes  and  doughters  of  John  Pleasance 
of  Tuddenham—  Thomas,  John  and  Agnes.  To  Elizabeth  Cocksall  doughter  of  John  Cocksall  my 
sonne  ;  Edmund  Boldero  and  John  Boldero  sonnes  of  John  Boldero  my  sonne  ;  Anne  Cocksall  my 
doughter  in  lawe  ;  Bridget  Boldero  my  doughter  in  lawe  ;  Margaret  Boldero  my  doughter  in  lawe. 
Vnto  Mary  Bolderow  doughter  of  John  Boldero  my  sonne  ;  Henry  Boldero  and  Briget  Boldero, 
sonne  and  doughter  of  Fraunces  Boldero  my  sonne.  My  sonne  Edmund  Boldero  to  be  executor. 
Tenement,  sometyme  Wrights  and  Hornigolds,  wch  I  purchased  of  Thomas  Boldero,  to  Cicely  Cage 
my  doughter,  to  remayn  to  Lewes  Cage  and  to  the  right  heires  of  the  said  Lewes,  if  he  die 
without  issue.  Probatum  primo  die  Marcij  1557  Executoribus. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  More,”  fo.  318b. 

By  her  Inquisition  post  mortem,  4  and  5  P.  and  M.,  Elizabeth  Cocksall,  widow,  was  found 
to  have  owned  Babwell  next  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  being  the  site  of  the  Franciscan  Monastery,  called 
Grey  Friars,  held  of  the  King  ;  also  a  messuage  in  Fornham  St.  Martin,  formerly  Wrights,  afterwards 
Horningolds,  and  divers  lands  and  tenements.  She  died  on  the  last  day  of  October,  1557,  John 
Boldero  of  Fornham  St.  Martin,  her  son  and  heir,  being  forty  years  of  age. 


Will  of  foljn  iBoltao,  1582. 

The  xixth  daie  of  Marche,  1582,  I  John  Boldero  of  Foruehm  saincte  Marten  in  the  Countie 
of  Suff.  gentleman,  doe  make  this  my  last  will  &  testamente,  revokinge  and  adnichillatinge  all 
others  by  me  before  this  tyme  made  (excepte  onelye  of  my  messuage  in  Babwell,  whereof  1  haue 
of  late  declared  my  will,  which  shall  remayne  for  those  lands  and  tenementes  only).  I  giue  to 
my  sonne  John  three  hundred  poundes.  Margarett  my  wyfe  shall  take  the  benefytt  of  the  first 
choyse  of  the  howshold  stuffe  before  my  children  take  their  lotts.  To  my  sayde  wyfe  one  hundred 
poundes.  To  my  sayde  wyfe  one  silu)  boule,  one  silu)  potte  and  sixe  silver  spoones  whiclie  she 
shall  best  lyke.  I  give  to  my  sonne  Edmonde  Boldero  my  salte  of  silu)  and  guilt,  one  boule  of 
silu) ,  one  potte  of  silu),  one  mazer  bounde  with  silu)  and  guilte  and  three  silu)  spoones.  To 

the  saide  John  my  sonne  my  cuppe  or  boule  of  siluer  pcell  guilte  with  a  flower  on  the  knopp 

in  the  bottome.  I  give  to  John,  George,  William,  and  Thomas  my  sonnes  and  to  Marye  and 
Bridgett  my  daughters,  the  rest  of  my  silu)  plate  equally,  vnto  my  sonnes  at  their  seueral  ages 
of  one  and  twentie  yeares,  and  to  my  daughters  at  their  aiges  of  eightene  yeares.  I  praye  myne 
Executors  to  haue  most  diligent  care  to  the  godlye  and  vertuous  bringinge  vpp  of  my  saide  children 
William  and  Thomas.  I  will  myne  executors  to  delyver  to  my  cozen  Thomas  Andrewes  gentleman, 
Henry  Hornyngold  and  Thomas  Gooderiche  and  others  the  coefeoffes  of  the  mannors,  messuags, 
landes  &c.  sometyme  John  Smethies,  otherwise  called  Janckyne  Smethies,  fiourtye  poundes  towardes 
a  stocke,  the  proffitts  thereof  to  be  employed  for  daylie  settinge  on  worke  and  releife  of  the  poore 

within  the  towne  of  Burye  St.  Edmond  :  a  pfect  accompt  to  be  thereof  made  to  ye  Aldermen  for 


a 


178 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


the  tyme  beinge  yearely  vppon  Candlemas  Daye.  To  my  brother  Thomas  Boldero  ffyve  poundes. 
Vnto  my  brother  Edmond  Boldero  one  newe  bolle  or  cnppe  of  siluer  of  the  value  of  ffyve 
pounds  :  To  Anne,  Roger,  Marye  and  John,  my  daughter  Barber’s  childrenn,  to  every  of  them 
ffyve  pounds.  To  John,  Elizabeth,  Edward  and  George,  my  sonne  Edmond  Baldroe’s  children,  to 
every  of  them  ffyve  pounds.  To  my  brother  John  Coggeshall  one  newe  goulde  ringe.  To  George, 
Thomas,  John,  Elizabeth  and  Marye,  my  brother  Coggeshall’s  children,  to  euery  of  them  three 
poundes  sixe  shillings  and  eighte  pence.  Vnto  James  Wrighte  of  Bury  St.  Edmond  one  newe 
goulde  ringe.  To  the  Towneshipp  of  Fornehm  Martyn  ffovver  pounds  to  remaine  for  a  contynuall 
stocke  for  the  releife  of  the  poore.  The  resydue  of  my  goods  I  becpieathe  to  my  executors.  I 
doe  ordaine  Roger  Barber  my  sonne  in  lawe,  John  Gyppes  my  nephewe,  John  Boldero  and  George 
Boldero  my  sonnes  my  true  and  lawfull  executors,  and  I  ordeyne  Thomas  Andrewes,  gentleman, 
supervisor.  I  give  to  George  Baldoro  my  sonne  my  lease  in  Stanforde  in  Norff.  To  Elizabeth 
the  wiffe  of  my  brother  John  Coggeshall  one  aingell  of  goulde.  To  Fraunces  Boldero  my  godsonne 
ffourtie  shillings.  To  Elizabeth  the  wvffe  of  my  sonne  Edmond  Boldero  two  aungells  of  goulde. 
To  Mary  the  wife  of  Roger  Barber  my  sonne  in  lawe  one  hundred  combes  of  barley.  Probatum 
decirno  die  Julij  1584  juramento  procuratoris  Rogeri  Barbor,  Joliis  Bolderowe  et  Georgij  Boldero. 


Mill  of  (Eimtmtb  Solbmr,  1601. 

Edmonde  Boldero  of  Fornham  S*  Martin,  Gentleman,  22  Sept1'  1601.  To  Elizabeth  my  wife 
lands  and  tenements  for  life,  and  after  her  decease  to  tenne  of  my  youngest  children,  being 
sonnes.  To  said  sonnes  my  lands  in  Great  Barton  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke.  To  Edward  my 
sonne  my  lands  in  Ampton  in  lieu  of  legacy  of  1001  given  him  by  his  grandfather  Edmund  Page, 
Gent.  John  Boldero  my  late  father.  To  my  eleven  yongest  children  at  ther  severall  ages  of  twentie 
veares.  To  John  Boldero  my  sonne,  Elizabeth  my  daughter,  Edward,  George,  Henry,  William, 
Edmunde,  Robert,  Charles,  Francis,  Thomas  and  Nathaniel  my  sones.  Bequests  of  Edmund  Page 
their  grandfather.  Residue  to  Elizabeth  my  wife  ;  she  and  Edward  Boldero  my  sonne  to  be 
executors.  My  cozen  Edmunde  Andrewes  to  be  supervisor.  Probatum  14  Jan.  1602  Elizabeths© 
relictse  dci  defunct.  Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  Coppinge,  fo.  182b. 


ffiljanmjj  prombtngs,  IBoltorfl  c.  Ifcbbe,  1620. 

To  the  Hoble  Francis  Lord  Verulam,  Lo :  Chancello1'  of  England,  19  May  1620.  Humbly 
complayninge  Francis  Boldero  of  Felsham  in  the  Countie  of  Suff.  Gentleman,  and  one  of  yr 
Lordships’  servants.  One  Francis  Boldero,  Gent.,  grandfather  vnto  yr  Orator,  was  about  thirtie  or 
fortie  yeares  sithence  seised  of  one  messuage  called  Sfc  Nicholas  Chappell  in  Bury  S‘  Edmund’s  of 
the  yearely  value  of  xxu  and  did  by  will  conveye  it  to  Henry  Boldero,  yo1'  Orator’s  father,  his 
sonne  and  heire,  and  to  the  heires  males  of  his  bodye.  Yor  Orator’s  said  father  about  five  and 
twentie  yeares  since  did  mortgage  it  for  some  small  sume  to  one  Wittm  Webbe  and  John  Duffield. 
He  then  travelled  beyond  the  seas  and  on  returning  to  England  died.  Therevppon  Webbe  and 
Duffield  and  one  Wiffm  Spalding  of  Barton  got  the  deeds  Ac.  into  their  hands,  and  yor  Orator 
as  sonne  A  heire  of  the  said  Henry  Boldero  is  likely  to  be  defeated  of  his  inheritance. 


BOLDERO  OF  FORNHAM. 


179 


Ausweare  of  William  Webbe,  gent.  Henry  Boldero,  father  of  the  complaynant,  did  by 
Indenture  Inrolled  in  Chancery,  22  Feb.  30  Elizth,  sell  Sfc  Nicholas  Chappell  to  this  defendant  and 
to  John  Duffield.  Defendant  gave  more  for  it  than  any  other  man  would  have  given,  and  Henry 
Boldero  could  not  purchase  it  back.  Defend1  sold  it  to  Spalding  for  2901.  Spalding  agreeing  to 
discharge  said  lands'  of  all  incumbrances.  Miscell.  Chanc.  Proc.,  Series  I,  25,  20. 

By  his  Inquisition  post  mortem,  21st  Elizabeth,  Francis  Boldero,  Esq.,  the  Complainant’s 
grandfather,  was  found  to  have  held  the  Manor  of  Holderness  ats  Eastgatebarnes,  and  the  site  of 
the  Hospital  of  St,  Nicholas  in  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  together  with  lands  in  Great  Barton,  Fornham 
St.  Martin  and  Rougham.  Henry  Boldero,  his  son  and  heir,  was  then  twenty-three  years  of  age. 


Will  of  Jloljtt  Smttatt,  1625. 

John  Inman  of  Bury  S'1  Edmunds,  merchante,  6th  Octr  1625.  I  give  and  bequeathe  for 
the  advancement  of  the  children  of  Richard  Mountnye  of  London,  merchante,  my  sonne  in  lawe 
by  marriage  with  Rebecca  my  late  daughter,  the  sume  of  one  hundred  and  five  pounds,  to  be 
equally  parted  amongst  them  at  their  severall  ages  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  Vnto  George 
Boldero,  my  wive’s  eldest  sonne,  three  poundes.  Vnto  Thomas  Boldero,  one  other  sonne  of  my 
said  wife  three  poundes.  Vnto  Elizabeth  Morfew,  wife  of  Thomas  Morfew  and  daughter  of  my  said 
wife  three  poundes.  Vnto  Richard  Goodinge  of  King’s  Lynne  m9chant,  my  brother,  my  graven 
silver  tankard,  which  was  mine  before  marriage  with  my  nowe  wife.  To  Thomas  Goodinge  his 
eldest  sonne,  Richard  Goodinge  his  younger  sonne  and  Katherine  Goodinge  his  daughter.  Vnto 
Tryphosa  Clarke,  widow,  and  to  Alice  Osborne,  widow,  my  wive’s  sisters,  money  to  buy  ringes. 
Residue  to  Margarett  my  well  beloved  wife  whom  I  appoint  sole  executrix.  James  Fayercliffe  a 
witness.  Probate  29th  Oct1  1625,  to  Margaret  Inman,  the  relict. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Liber  “  Pearle,”  fo.  318. 

At  his  Inquisition  post  mortem,  George  Boldero,  gentleman,  Margaret  Inman’s  first  husband, 
who  died  8th  Nov.  1609,  was  found  to  have  held  a  tenement  and  land  in  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
the  site  of  Babwell  Friary,  and  lands  in  Fornham  All  Saints  and  Westley.  George  Boldero,  his  son 
and  heir,  afterwards  of  Ixworth,  was  then  aged  eleven  years  and  four  months.  For  the  inscription 
on  his  brass  in  St.  Mary’s  Church,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  see  below. 


Will  of  Ipitru  iBoltoro,  1660. 

I,  Henry  Boldero,  Merchant  Adventurer  resident  in  the  Cittie  of  Dordrecht  in  Holland, 
ordaine  this  my  last  will  the  eight  and  twentith  day  of  May  1660.  Touching  that  temporall 
estate  which  God  of  his  goodness  hath  lent  me  I  dispose  thereof  as  followeth.  I  giue  vnto  Sarah 
my  loveing  wife,  all  my  messuages  &c.  in  the  county  of  Norfolke  within  the  Kingdome  of  England 
dureing  the  terme  of  her  naturall  life,  vpon  condicon  that  she  doe  release  vnto  my  executor  all 
her  right  to  my  estate  either  in  England  or  Holland  other  than  such  as  I  liaue  bequeathed  her 


180 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


by  this  present  will.  I  farther  give  her,  vpon  the  condicon  aforesaid  all  my  plate  household  stufi'e 

and  impements.  I  also  giue  her  that  estate  which  was  bequeathed  vnto  her  by  the  last  will  of 

Tobias  Dehem  her  brother.  I  give  vnto  my  eldest  sonne  John  Boldero  my  messuages  and  lands 
in  Barton  Turfe  in  the  said  county  of  Norfolk  immediately  after  my  said  wife’s  decease.  Vnto 

my  sonne  Henry  Boldero  messuages  Ac.  in  Barton  Turfe  now  in  the  tenure,  of  John  Johnson, 

immediately  after  my  wife’s  decease.  Vnto  my  sonne  Daniell  Boldero  my  messuages  in  Barton 
Turfe  now  in  the  occupacon  of  William  Joy  immediately  after  my  said  wife’s  decease.  Vnto  my 
sonne  Evodius  otherwise  Edward  Boldero  my  messuages  Ac.  in  Hepworth  in  the  County  of  Suffolke. 
Vnto  my  daughter  Anne  Boldero  six  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  my  daughter  Jane  Boldero  the  like 
sum.  The  overplus  of  all  my  goods  I  bequeath  vnto  such  of  my  children  as  shall  be  vnmarried 
at  the  tyme  of  my  decease.  My  sonnes  John  Boldero  and  Henry  Boldero  to  be  joynt  executors 
of  this  my  last  will.  I  doe  appoynt  my  loving  brother  Edmund  Boldero,  clerke,  to  be  supervisor 
vnto  whom  I  give  for  his  paines  and  care  the  summe  of  ffifty  pounds. 

The  Codicill.  My  will  is  that  my  wife  shall  have  ffower  hundred  pounds  to  be  layd  out 

by  her  towardes  the  building  and  repairinge  of  the  house  wdierein  I  now  live  in  Barton,  and  also 

that  the  materialls  wch  are  alreddee  bought  for  the  said  buildinge  to  be  imployed  about  the  same, 
and  if  there  be  any  part  of  the  said  monyes  left  that  is  to  be  laid  out  in  land  and  left  as  an 
addicon  of  my  sonne  John  Boldero’s  part  after  the  decease  of  my  said  wiefe.  And  my  will  is  that 
Mary  Goodenough  my  daughter  shall  haue  ffifty  pounds  in  full  satisfacon  for  her  share  which  she 

or  her  husband  Smart  Goodenough  can  claime  to  any  part  of  my  personall  estate.  This  three  and 

twentith  of  February  1660.  Probatum  tertio  die  Aprilis  1661  juramento  Johannis  Boldero  et 
Henrici  Boldero  executor  in  testamto  nominat.  P.C.C.  55  May. 

Tobias  de  Hem  of  Norwich  married  Susan,  daughter  of  Zegher  Corsellis  of  London,  whose 
will  was  administered  in  1625.  In  1670,  Henry  Boldero  of  Whaddon,  co.  Cambridge,  clerk,  one  of 
the  sons  of  Henry  Boldero,  the  Merchant  Adventurer,  sued  Sarah  Boldero,  his  mother,  who  he 
thought  was  planning  to  defeat  him  of  his  reversion  to  the  messuages  in  Barton  Turf,  Nicholas 
Corsellis,  gent.,  the  trustee,  having  died.  She  denied  all  such  intention.  Boldero  c.  Boldero , 
Milford  II,  clxviii,  9. 


Mill  of  Jfottimr,  D.D.,  1679. 

I,  Edmund  Boldero,  Master  of  Jesus  Colledge  in  Cambridge  doe  this  nine  and  twentyeth 
day  of  March,  1679,  make  this  my  last  Will  and  Testament.  Imprimis  1  doe  declare  that  I 
looke  for  salvation  only  by  the  merritts  of  my  blessed  Redeemer,  trusting  through  his  pretious 
death  to  obtaine  mercy  and  pardon  of  my  sinnes.  And  in  his  hands  I  comend  my  soule  who 
dyed  for  all  men.  I  will  that  my  body  be  decently  buried  in  Jesus  Colledge  Chappell  where  I 
will  that  my  executor  shall  lay  a  stone  of  blacke  marble  with  this  Inscription,  Quod  super  est 
de  est,  sed  resurgam.  I  giue  to  Jesus  Colledge  Library  my  bookes  in  the  Colledge  and  at 
Snaylwell  Parsonage,  to  be  sett  apart  by  themselves,  as  a  testimony  of  the  respect  I  had  for 
that  Society.  To  my  neece  Jane  Colman  threescore  pounds  for  the  binding  out  each  of  her  two 
youngest  children,  Henry  and  Francis  Muriel  Colman,  apprentices.  To  the  towne  of  Glemsford  in 
Suffolk  ffive  pounds  towards  the  binding  out  of  poore  children  by  the  Eectour  that  shall  there 
succeed.  To  the  towne  of  Snaylwell  for  the  good  of  the  poore  ffive  pounds.  I  give  Mr  John  Lord, 


BOLDERO  OF  FORNHAM. 


181 


Fellow  of  Jesus  Colledge  my  best  gowne  and  cassocke.  I  likewise  giuc  him  all  my  paper  bookes 
with  all  manner  of  loose  writings,  willing  him  that  what  he  shall  not  thinke  fitt  for  his  owne 
vse  be  fortwith  burnt  in  the  fire.  To  my  honoured  ffrend  Dr  Beaumont,  Master  of  saint  Peter’s 
Colledge,  a  ring  of  ffourty  shilling.  The  rest  of  my  cash,  plate,  goods,  household  stuffo,  stocke 
of  corne,  sheep,  cowes,  horses,  with  all  other  moveables  or  unmoveables  at  Cambridge,  Snaylwell, 
Glemsford  or  elsewhere,  together  with  my  house  in  Snaylwell,  I  give  to  my  Kinsman  Mr  Daniell 
Boldero  whome  I  constitute  my  sole  executor.  I  constitute  Mr  John  Loi’d  aforesayd  supervisor 
and  bequeath  him  a  ring  of  ffourty  shillings.  Probatum  nono  die,  Augusti  1679,  juramento 
Danielis  Baldero,  execuP  in  testamento  noTaP.  P.C.C.  104  King. 

Edmund  Boldero,  the  seventh  son  of  John  Boldero  and  Mary  Tillott,  his  wife,  was  born  at 
Bury  St.  Edmunds,  in  1608  ;  educated  at  Ipswich  School;  admitted  to  a  Fellowship  of  Pembroke 
Hall,  Cambridge  in  1631,  when  he  took  the  degree  of  M.A.  ;  became  Curate  of  St.  Laui'ence, 
Ipswich,  1643  ;  was  ejected  from  his  Fellowship  during  the  Commonwealth,  suffering  much  for  the 
lloyalist  cause.  On  the  Restoration  he  was  created  D.D.  by  royal  mandate.  He  was  Chaplain  to 
Bishop  Wren,  who  presented  him  to  the  Rectories  of  Glemsford,  Westerfield,  and  Harkstead,  and 
afterwards  nominated  him,  in  1663,  to  the  Mastership  of  Jesus  College,  Cambridge,  which  he  held 
with  Glemsford  and  the  Rectory  of  Snailwell  in  Cambridgeshire.  He  was  Vice-Chancellor  of  the 
University  in  1668  and  1674.  For  the  inscription  on  his  monument  in  Jesus  College  Chapel 
see  below. 


John  Boldero,  M.A.,  Rector  of  Clipston  and  Dingley  in  the  county  of  Northampton.  To  be 
buried  at  Clipston  near  my  wife,  or  in  Ixworth  church  near  the  grave  of  my  dear  father,  in  case 
I  should  die  in  Suffolk,  To  my  nephew  John  Boldero,  Rector  of  Woolpit  in  Suffolk,  sixty  pounds. 
To  my  niece  Elizabeth  Boldero,  who  lived  with  me  some  years,  two  hundred  pounds.  To  my  nieces 
Anne  Wright,  Mary  Kent  and  Jane  Paine,  widow.  To  Mrs  Elizabeth  Gerard  the  daughter  of  my 
late  wife  (her  late  husband  went  to  reside  at  Coventry)  and  to  her  daughter  Sarah  Oakley.  To  my 
niece  Ann  Boldero  of  Ixworth  one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  niece  Frances  Griffin  fifty  pounds  for 
her  own  separate  use.  To  the  poor  of  Dingley  twenty  two  pounds.  To  my  said  niece  Elizabeth 
Boldero  my  great  silver  waiter  and  my  own  picture  in  the  great  parlour  at  Dingley,  and  to 
Frances  Gerard  her  mother’s  picture.  To  my  sister  MrB  Esther  Boldero  ten  pounds  for  mourning. 
To  the  eldest  child  of  my  nephew  Thomas  Cooke,  deceased,  five  pounds.  To  Mr  Nathaniel  Gerard. 
To  my  nephew  Roger  Boldero  of  Ixworth  and  his  heirs  my  lands  in  Ixworth,  formerly  my  late 
uncle’s,  John  Godbold.  To  my  nephew  George  Boldero  of  Ixworth  and  the  said  Roger  Boldero  his 
brother  my  farm  &c.  in  Old  Weston  and  other  lauds  in  the  county  of  Huntingdon.  The  said 
George  and  Roger  Boldero  to  be  executors.  Dated  the  first  of  May  1749.  Proved  1st  August 
1751  by  George  and  Roger  Boldero.  P.C.C.  228  Busby. 

We  learn  from  his  monument  in  the  nave  of  Ixworth  Church,  that  John  Boldero,  formerly 
Fellow  of  Christ  College,  Cambridge,  had  been  Rector  of  Clipston  and  Dingley  for  nearly  forty 
years.  He  died  on  the  12th  of  May,  1751,  aged  77  years. 


182 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


inscription,  ^t.  JKargs  ffiljurilj,  Unry  Sit  (Etonmtis. 

On  a  brass  in  the  middle  aisle  of  St.  Mary’s  Church,  with  the  arms,  mantle  and  crest 
of  Boldero. 

Here  lyeth  buried  George  Boldero,  Geutl,  who  lyved  in 
the  feare  of  God,  &  dyed  in  the  faith  of  Christ  the  7th 
of  Noveb.  Anno  Di  1609,  setatis  suse  47. 


inscription,  Jcsns  College  ffibapri,  Cambridge. 

Terra  quam  premis  (Lector) 

Sacra  est  memorise 
Edmundi  Boldero 
S.T.P. 

Yiri  (sseviente  Bello  civili) 

De  Ecclesia  Anglicana 
Optime  meriti,  utrique 
Carolo  Devotissimi  et 
Hujus  Collegii  custodis 
Dignissimi.  Qui  obijt 
5t0  die  Julij  Anno  Christi 
1679,  AStatis  suse  72do. 

Desine  Plura  inquirere  et  te  talem  Proestes. 

Quod  superest  Deest  sed  Resurgam. 

Arms  : — Boldero,  with  a  crescent  for  difference. 


inscriptions,  irioorth  CIjnrcIj- 

Amongst  the  numerous  inscriptions  in  lx  worth  church  and  chancel  to  members  of  the 
Boldero  family  are  the  following 

i  Terra  quam  Premis  (lector)  sacra 
Est  memorise  Georgii  Boldero 
Generosi  et  Annae  uxoris 
Ejus.  Ille  14°  Februarij  1665 
Haec  7  Augusti  1672 
Obijt. 

Which  two  bodies  here  do  stay 
Waiting  for  God’s  judgement  day. 


BOLDERO  OF  FORNHAM. 


183 


Hie  Commisti  Tumulantur  cineres 
Patris  gnatique  Simonis  et  Georgij  Boldero 
Quorum  uterque  non  tarn  jurisperitus 
Quam  justitia?  cultoi 
(Rarum  apud  causidicos)  audiit  Bene 
nempe,  Quicquid  Egregii  Peragerat 
Olim  Pater 

Idem  Patrizavit  Filins 
Quiescat  Placide  utriusque  Pul  vis  cognatus 
Ad  novisimum  Diem  Fseliciter  Resuscitandus. 

n,...  fHic  23'1  Junij  17011  ,  f 65 

0bnt  (ille  28  Junij  1737/  ^tat  \72‘ 

Accincti  estote  consanguinei 
Brevi  sequendum  est. 

Arms : — Boldero,  with  mantle,  helmet,  and  crest. 


Ite&tjra  of  Soltoo,  Ifarl.  182U. 

“The  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  Begone  on  ye  first  of  August,  1611,”  by  John  Raven,  Richmond 

Herald. 

John  [“  William  ”  in  the  original  Visitation  at  the  College  of  Arms]  Boldero  of  Fornham 
Martyn  mar.  fy  had  issue  Rich:  Rich:  mar.  4f  had  issue  Edmond. 

Edmond  Bol:  of  Fornham  in  Stiff:  sonne  3y  h:  of  Rich:  mar.  Isahell  d:  of  Smithy  of  Stiff: 
4'  had  issue  John,  Thom:  Fraunces,  Will’m  ohijt,  Edmond,  Ann  mar.  to  Rich:  Gips,  Cecily  mar: 
to  Cage,  3d  d:  mar:  to  Thom:  Plesans  of  Brandon. 

Thom:  Bol:  2d  sonne  fy  of  Forneham  mar:  Margery  d:  of  Bettes  of  Norff:  4'  had  issue  John 
sonne  4'  h:  Robt  2d,  Sisley  mar:  to  Charles  Woodward  of  Tetishall  in  Norff: 

John  Boldero  of  Bery  Sl  Edmond  sonne  4'  h:  mar:  Mary  if  d:  of  Raygnall  Tilliot  of  Ruffam 
in  Stiff,  fy  hathe  issue  John  age  22,  Thom  age  17,  Leyoncird  age  13,  George  age  10,  Henry  age  S, 
Fraunces  ohijt,  Edmond  age  3,  Mary  ohijt,  Mary  age  IS,  Eliz:  age  Ilf,  Ann  age  12. 

John  Boldero  of  Fornham  in  Stiff:  mar:  Margarett  d:  of  Howard  of  Norff:  f  had  issue 
Edmond,  Jo:  George,  WilVm,  Thom,  Mary  mar:  to  Ro:  Bather  of  Stiff:  Brigett  mar:  to  Will’m 
Hayward  of  Stiff: 

Edmond  sonne  fy  h.  mar:  Eliz:  d:  of  Edward  Page  of  Framlingham  in  Stiff:  f  had  issue 
John,  Edward,  George,  Henry  ohijt,  WilVm,  Edmond,  Roht,  Charles  ohijt,  Fraunces,  Thom:  Nathaniel! , 
Eliz:  mar:  to  Roht  Nutiall  of  Framlingham  in  Stiff: 

John  Bol:  of  Barton  in  Stiff:  sonne  Sy  h:  of  Ed:  mar:  Alice  d:  of  George  Pasfield  of  Fornham 
4'  had  issue  John  age  If,  Amy  7,  Eliz:  age  2,  Martha  age  3  weaks. 

Fraunces  Bol:  if  If  sonne  of  Ed:  of  Bury  Esqr  mar.  Briget  d:  of  Henry  Chettinge  of 
Wortham  in  Suff:  Sf  had  issue. 

Henry  Bol:  sonne  4'  h:  mar:  Margarett  d:  of  Thom  Harwell  of  Felsham  in  Stiff:  iy  had  issue 
George  sonne  4"  h:  Fraunces  2d,  Ann  mar:  to  John  Littelbury  of  Hagworthingliam  in  Lincolnshire  Estff. 


184 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


3Solt«ero  of  jfornljam. 

William  Boldero  of  Fornliam  St.  Martin.  Camden’s =f= 
Visitation  of  Suffolk,  anno  1612.  \ 


Richard  Boldero  of  Fornham  St.=pCecily  .  .  .  Was  of  Fornham  St.  Martin,  widow,  29  Sept. 
Martin.  Camden’s  Visitation  and  1519,  when  she  made  will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  proved  22  April 
Ilarl.  MS.  1S20.  1521  ;  bequeathed  her  mazer  to  Edmd.  Boldero,  her  son. 


T 


Roger  Coggeshall  of  Fornham=f Elizabeth,  da.  of  John  or  Jan-=f=Edmund 


St.  Martiu,  co.  Suffolk,  gent., 
2d  husband.  Inq.  p.  mort. 
34  H.  8.  Will  dated  23 
April  33  H.  8.  Ob.  26  April 
following. 


kin  Smithy.  Her  will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  10  Oct.  1557,  was 
proved  1  March  following. 
Inq.  p,m.,  4  and  5,  P.  and  M. 
Ob.  31  Oct.  1557. 


John  Coggeshall  of  Forn¬ 
ham  St.  Genevieve,  gent., 
only  child,  aged  14  in  1 540. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  31  Dec. 
1598;  bequests  to  nephews 
Edmund  and  John  Boldero. 


Edmund  Boldero, =p 
4  th  son,  living 
1582  ;  had  issue, 
Thomas  and  Francis 
Boldero,  17th  Eliz. 

A 


Boldero  of 
Fornham 
St. Martin, 
first  hus¬ 
band. 


- 1 - 

Katherine, 

ux . 

Smere;  had 
issue,  anno 
1519. 


Elizabeth,  ux. 
....  Wor- 
lyche ;  had 
issue,  anno 
1519. 


Joan,  ux. 

.  .  .  Davy, 
1519. 


Isabel!,  ux. 
....  Betts, 
1519, and  had 
issue. 


Anne,  ux.  Richard 
Gipps  of  Barton, 
co.  Suffolk  ;  a 
widow  in  1557;  had 
1  issue,  John,  George 
and  Anne  Gipps. 


Scisley,  ux.  John  Cage, 
ob.  s  p.  Her  will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  27  March  1570, 
proved  14  April  following, 
gives  many  bequests  to 
the  Bolderos. 


Agnes,  ux.  John 
Pleasance,of  Bran¬ 
don  Ferry,  co. 
Suffolk.  Of  Tud- 
denham.,  co.  Suff., 
1557  ;  had  issue. 


William 
Boldero, 
3d  son. 


Anne  Nurnr 
■of  Tostock, 
1st  wife, 
mar.  at 
Fornham  12 
Sept.  1541  ; 
bur.therel6 
July  1543. 


=John  Boldero  of=j-Margaret,  da.  of  ThomasBoldero,2d=j=Margery,da.of .  . .  Francis  Boldero  of  Bury=pBridgett,  da.  and 


Fornham  St.  Mar¬ 
tin  ,  gent.  ,heir  to  his 
mother,  and  aged 
40  in  1557.  Will, 
P.C.C.  18  WatPon, 
19  March  1582, 
proved  10  July 
1584.  Inq.  p.  m. 


Thomas  Hewer  of 
Oxburgh,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk,  mar.  at  Forn¬ 
ham  21  June  1546. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.24 
Feb.  1591,  proved 
31  March  1601. 


son,  of  Fornham 
St.Martin,29  April 
1586.  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  proved  3 
Aug.  1588. 


Betts  of  Norfolk, 
mar.  at  Fornham, 
12Julyl559;  living 
29  April  1588.  She 
renupt.  ..  Lambe. 


A 

See  Boldero  of  Yorkshire. 


St.  Edmunds,  Esq.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  19  Sep. 
17  Eliz.,  proved  31  Dec. 
1582 ;  previously  proved 
at  Bury  7  Oct.  1 580.  Inq. 
p.m.  21  Eliz. 


devisee  of  Henry 
Chitting  of  Wor¬ 
tham,  co.  Suffolk, 
who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  22  Mel- 
/)\iershe,10  Ap.  1559. 


See  Pedigree  A. 


Alice,bapt.l542; 
bur.  1546,  both 
at 


Anne,  bapt. 
16  July 
1546. 


r- 


John  Boldero,  2d  son, 
bapt-  1552  ;  had  son, 
Thomas  Boldero,  devisee 
of  WilliamSpalding,1599. 


William  Boldero,  4th  son, 
named  as  executor  in  his 
mother’s  will,  but  beyond 
the  seas  4  March  1601. 


Mary,  ux.  Roger  Barber,  Esq., 
of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  who 
made  will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  23 
Nov.  1605,  proved  6  Sept.  1606. 


Bridget, ux.  Wil¬ 
liam  Hayward  of 
Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  gent. 


Edmund  Boldero  of  Foru-=i=Elizabeth,da.  of  Ed-=JolmGowld, 

mar.  Eliza- 
betliBoldero 
at  Gt.  Bar¬ 
ton,  19  Jan. 

•  1602. 


ham  St.  Martin,  gent.,  son 
and  heir,  bapt.  there  25  Dec. 
1550.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  22 
Sept.  1601,  proved  14  Jan. 
1602.  Inq.  p.  m.  1  Jas. 


Edward  Boldero,  2d  son,  to 
whom  his  father  left  his  land  j 
in  Ampton,  1601,  but  who 
evidently  dieds  p.  before  the 
Suffolk  Visitation  of  1612. 


ward  Page  of  Fram- 
lingham,  co.  Suff., 
gent.  Her  mother, 
Mary  Page,  widow’, 
made  will.  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  7  Feb.  1602. 


George  Boldero  of=j=Margaret,da.of  WilliamFay- 


Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
gent  , 3d  son.  Will, 
P.C.C.  1  Wingfield, 
proved  18  Jan.  1609. 
Inq.  p.  m.  7  Jas. 


ereliffe  of  BurySt. Edmunds, 
clothier,  who  made  will, 
P.C.C,  40  Woodhall,  12  Dec. 
1600.  She  renupt.  John 
/)\Inman  of  BurySt.Edmunds. 


See  Boldero  of  Ixwtorth. 


Thomas  Bol¬ 
dero,  5th  son. 
Thomas  &  John 
Boldero,  his 
sons,arenamed 
1591  in  his 
mother’s  will.  4^ 


Gooche 

of 

Bury. 


George  Bol¬ 
dero,  3d 
son,  1611. 


Henry  Boldero, 
4th  son,  1611  ; 
bapt.  at  Forn- 
bam,  1585  ;  ob. 
s.p.  Camden. 


William  Bol¬ 
dero,  5th  son, 
1611,  bapt.  at 
Fornham, 
1587. 


Edmund  Bol¬ 
dero,  6th  son, 
1611,  bapt. 
at  Fornham, 
1589. 


Robert  Bol¬ 
dero,  7th  son, 
1611,  bapt. 
at  Fornham, 
1590. 


Charles  Boldero, 
8th  son,  annol611, 
bapt.  at  Fornham, 
1591  ;  died  s.p. ; 
bur.  at  Great  Bar¬ 
ton  4  July  1610. 


John  Boldero  of  Great  Barton,  co.=j= Alice,  da.  and  apparently  only 
Suffolk,  gent.,  son  and  heir.  Made  child  of  George  Paskfield  of 


will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  at  Fornham  St. 
Martin,  23  Jan.  1639  ;  probate  13 
April  1640.  Sold  Barton  estate 
to  John  Shawbery,  17  Jas. 


Amy  Boldero,  aged  7  in  1611. 
Camden’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk. 
Devisee  of  George  Paskfield,  her 
grandfather,  1622. 


Fornham  St.  Martin,  who 
made  will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  26 
March  1622. 


- 1 - 

Francis 
Boldero, 
9th  son, 
anno 
1611. 


Thomas  Bol- 
uero,  10th 
son, anno  1611 
bapt.  atForn- 
ham,  1593. 


Nathaniel  Boldero, 
11th  son,  anno  1611, 
bapt.  1596;  devisee 
of  William  Spald¬ 
ing  of  Timworth, 
1599. 


Elizabeth,  ux. 
Robert  Nut- 
liall  of  Fram- 
lingham. 


Elizabeth,  aged  2  in 
1611.  Camden.  Bapt. 
at  Great  Barton,  24 
Sept.  1609. 


Martha,  aged  1  in 
1611.  Camden. 
Bapt.  at  Great  Bar¬ 
ton,  22  Sept.  1611. 


Two  sons  named 
Thomas,  bapt.  1613  & 
1614  at  Great  Barton; 
died  in  infancy. 


Margaret, bap. 
at  Great  Bar¬ 
ton,  3  March 
1615. 


Jane,  bapt.  at  Great 
Barton,  5  May  1622; 
named  in  her  father’s 
will,  1639. 


John  Boldero,  son  and  heir  apparent,  aged  4  in  1611.  Camden. 
Living  1639,  when  his  father  made  his  will. 


Roger  Boldero,  bapt.  at 
Great  Barton,  15  Feb.  1617. 


Samuel  Boldero,  bapt.  at 
Great  Barton,  29  Oct.  1620. 


BOLDERO  OF  FORNHAM. 


185 


Anne  Nunn  of: 

Tostock.  llarl. 

MS.  1552.  /Kson  and  heir, 


^elitgree  %  38 oilier o  of  3tetoortf). 

Roger  Coggeshall  of  Fornham=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Jolm=pEdmund  Boldero  of  Fornham 
St.  Martin,  Gent.,  2d  husband.  |  or  Janckin  Smithy.  I  St.  Martin,  1st  husband. 

A 

I - 1 - 1 

John  Boldero  of  Forn-=j=Margaret,  da.  of 
ham  St.  Martin,  Gent.,  |  Thomas  Hewar 


of  Norfolk,  Esq. 


Francis  Boldero  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Esq.,  4th  son.=pBridget,,  dau.  and 
Camden.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  19  Sept.,  17  Eliz.  Inq.  I  devisee  of  Henry 
p.m.  21  Eliz.  I  Chitting,  Gent. 


George  Boldero,  Gent.,  of=pMargaret,  dau.  &  devisee  Bridget, named  Anne,  only  Henry  Boldero  of  Bury=f  Margaret,  dau.  and  coheir 


Bury  St.  Edmunds,  and  Bab- 
well  Priory  ,3d  son, bornl  561. 
Mar.  lie.  11  Jan.  1585.  Will, 
P.C.C.  1  Wingfield.  Inq. 
p.m.  7  Jas.  M.I.  in  St. 
Mary’s  church,  Ob.  1609. 

of  William  Fayercliffe  of  1559  in  her  surviving  St. Edmunds, Gent  .only 

Bury  St.  Edmunds,  who  grandfather  daughter  ;  son  and  heir,  aged  23  in 

madewill,P.C.C.40 Wood-  Chitting’s  will,  under  age,  1579  ;  sold  St.  Nicholas 

hall,  12  Dec.  1600.  She  but  dead  s.p.  17  Eliz.  Chapel,  30  Eliz.  ;  went 

mar.  2d  John  Inman  of  before  1575.  beyond  the  seas,  and 

Bury  St.  Edmunds.  returning,  died. 

of  Thomas  Harwell  of  Fel¬ 
sham,  Gent.,  who  made 
will,  P.C.C.  27  Parker,  22 
Feb.  1616.  Her  will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  12  Oct.  1624, 
proved  20  Dec.  following. 

r  H 

Elizabeth,  bapt.  at  Bury, 
1594,  wife  of  Thomas  Mor- 
phew,  1625,  when  John  In¬ 
man,  made  his  will.  Had 
dau.,  Rebecca  Morphew. 

"1  1”  i  ~1  r 

Thomas  Boldero,  Mary,  ux.  John  Har-  Anne,  ux.  John  Dorothy, 

bapt.  at  Bury,  well  of  Blakeuham  Littlebury  of  1624. 

1604;  devisee  of  Parva,  Gent.,  who  Hagworthiugham,  — 

John  Inman,  entered  pedigree  in  in  co.  Lincoln.  Penelope, 

1625.  the  Suff.  Vis.,  1664.  Harl  MS.  1820.  1624. 

r  t  t 

Martha,  Bridget, ux. 
1624.  .  .  .  Sugar, 

1624. 

L 

r 

George  Boldero,  s.  &  h.,  aged- 
11  in  1609  ;  of  Ixworth, Gent., 
18  Chas.  II.  Will,Arch.Sudb. 
proved  28  April  1666.  M.I.  in 
Ixworth  church.  Sold  Babwell 
to  Thos.  Morphew,  20  Jas. 
r  T  ~r  J 

i  i  i  i  i  i  i  i 

j=Anne  .  .  .  She  made  William,  bapt.  at  Bury,  1586 

will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  10  Mary,  1590  ;  Margaret,  1593 

Jan.  22  Chas.  II.  Lucretia,  1597  ;  John,  1600 

proved  23  Aug.  1672.  William,  1601;  Thomas,  1604 
M.I.  inlxworth  church.  and  John,  1607  ;  seem  to  have 
Died  7  Aug.  1672.  died  before  6  Oct.  1625. 

. 

r  n 

George  Boldero,  Francis  Boldero,  2d  Isaak  Bol- 
son  and  heir,  son  and  ultimately  dero  named 
1611.  Camden,  heir, 161 1.  Camden.  1624  in  his 

Dead  s.p.  before  Of  Felsham,  co.  mother’s 

19  May  1620.  Suff.,  Gent.,  1620.  will. 

Boldero  c.Spalding. 
t  n — r  n 

George  Thomas 
Boldero,  Boldero, 
1665.  1665. 


Simon  Boldero  of  Ixworth,  Gent.,  bapt.  there=pFrances.da. of  John  God- 


1636.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  dated  30  March 
1701,  proved  7  Oct.  1704.  Buried  in  Ixworth 
church. 


bold,  Esq.,  mar.  1658  ; 
buriedin Ixworth  church 
3  Sept.  1696. 


Rebecca,  bap.  1634; 
mar.  John  Bond, 
1674;  died!674;bur. 
in  Ixworth  church. 


Margaret 
and  Anne, 
duriug 
1665. 


Sarah,  bapt. 
at  Ixworth, 
1640. 


Simon  Boldero,  M.A.,  Can-p=Joan  Cooke 
tab,  1683  ;  Vicar  of  Gt,  of  Little 
Barton  andRector  of  Wool-  Livermere, 
pit  ;  bur.  at  Gt.  Barton,  married 
1722.  Will, Cur.  Ep. Norw.  1688. 


— r— i - 

Frances,  2d  son, 
devisee  of  John 
Godbold,  1707. 

Elizabeth,  1707. 


George  Boldero1 
of  Ixworth, Gent., 
3d  son, born  1665; 
died  1737.  Had 
with  other  issue  : 


- - — - j 

:Esther  Fiske,  John  Boldero,  b.  1674  ;=Abigail,  relict 
mar.  1701  ;  Fell,  and  Tutor  of  Christ  of  Rev.  .  .  . 

died  1707  ;  Coll.,  Camb.  ;  Rector  of 

buried  in  lx-  Clipstone,  co.  Northamp- 
worth  church.  ton.  M  I.  in  Ixworth  ch. 


John  Boldero,  only=j=Martha  Taylor 


son  and  heir,  B.A., 
Christ’s  Coll.,  Camb., 
1718;  Rector  of  Wool- 
pit,  Suff.  ;  ob.  17 
Oct.  1753. 


of  Woolpit;  m. 
17  Oct.  1728  ; 
bur.atWoolpit, 
25  Aug.  1746. 


i — i — n 
Mary, 
Jane, 
Martha 
&  Anne, 
living 
1720. 


L 


George  Bol¬ 
dero  of  Ix¬ 
worth,  Gent., 
died  unmar¬ 
ried,  1761. 


Elizabeth,  b.  1720;  m. 
Ezekiel  S  parke  of 
Walshain, Suff., Gent ; 
died  1799.  From 
whomSparke  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds. 


Roger  Boldero=j=EIizabeth 


son  and  heir, 
of  Ixworth, 
Gent.,b.l714; 
d.l794;bur.in 
Ixworth  ch. 


John  Boldero,  son  and  heir, =j= Ann  . 


b  1729 ;  B.A.,  Christ’s  Coll. 
Camb.,  1752;  Rector  of 
Ampton ,  Suffolk ;  bur.  there 
1781.  Will,  P.C.C.  3  Gosling. 


bur.  at 
Ampton 
11  Mar. 
1784. 


Simon  Boldero  of  Wool-=f=Susanna,dau.of  . . . 
pit,  bapt.  25  Jan.  1730;  Gardiner  of  Wool- 
d.  25  Mar.  1584  ;  bur.  |  pit, Gent. ;  m.  1757; 
at  Woolpit.  /)\died  o  July  1784. 

Boldero  op  Rattlesdesst. 


— i — i — i — i 

Roger  Boldero, 
b.l731;Martha, 
b.  1733,  and 
others,  who 
died  young. 


Dickens  of 
Bosworth,  co. 
Camb.  ;  s.p. 

- 1 

Frances,  b.  1716  ;  mar. 
Rev.  Edward  Griffin,  Rec¬ 
tor  of  Hardwick  and  Ding- 
ley,  co.  Northampton  ;  d. 
1798  ;  bur.  in  Ixworth 
church.  =j= 
rJ 

QeorgeBoldero,only=j=HesterGriffin,  his 


Cocksedge 
mar.  1750; 
d.  1755  ; 
bur.  at 
Ixworth. 
i - , 


surviving  child,  of 
Ixworth,  Gent.  ;  b. 
1753;  d.  1818;  bur. 
in  Ixworth  church. 


JohnBoldero,  Rector=pMary  Ann 


of  Ampton,  b.  1756  ; 
B.A.,  Christ’s  Coll., 
Camb.;  d.  1796;  bur. 
in  Ampton  church. 


Sibbs,  d.  25 
Sep.  1800,aet. 
37 ;  bur.  in 
Ampton  ch. 


George  Boldero,  3d  son, 
Rector  of  Raynham,Norff. ; 
d.  1823,  leaving  issue  by 
Christian,  his  wife,  a  dau  , 
wife  of  .  .  .  Temple. 


George  Boldero,  b.  1781  ;=Amelia  Cam-  Elizabeth, 
B.A.,  1804;  M.A.,  1819,  pion,  survived  b.  1783  ;  m. 
Caius Coll.,  Camb.;  Per-  husband  and  Rev.  H. 
petual  Curate  of  lx-  remarried  Mr.  Adams, Rec- 
worth  and  J.P.forSuff.;  Jameson  of  torofBard- 
d.  at  Brussells,  1836, s.p.  Cork,  Ireland,  well,  Suff. 


cousin  german;  m. 
1780  ;  d.  5  Oct. 
1835,aged80;bur. 
in  Ixworth  ch. 


John  Boldero,  b. 
1793,  Barrister- 
at-Law;d.24Ap. 
1829,  unmar.  ; 
bur.  at  Ixworth. 


Mary  Anne,  b.  1785. 

John,  b.  1788. 

Joseph  Edmd.Sibbs, 
b.  1796. 


Henry  George  Boldero, =pMarv  Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Joseph 

b.  1794;  Lieut. -Col.  ;  - - 

late  clerk  of  the  Or¬ 
dinance  and  M.P.  for 
Chippenham;  d.  1873; 
bur.  at  Grittleton. 


Neeld,  Esq.,  of  Gloster  Place,  Port- 
man  Square,  sister  of  late  Joseph 
Neeld, Esq.,  of  Grittleton,  M.P.,and 
of  late  Sir  John  Neeld,  Bart.,  of 
Grittleton.  Bur.  at  Grittleton. 


i — 

Hester, 
b.  1785; 
d.  1809. 


Frances, =j=Rev.  Edward 


b.  1787  : 
bur.  at 
Hep- 
worth. 


Rend  Payne, 
Rector  of 
Hepworth, 
Suffolk. 


George  Neeld  Boldero,  b.  1829  ;=j=Anna  Maria, dau.  of  William 
Major,  21st  Fusileers  at  Alma 
and  Inkerman ;  Lieut.-General, 

1888  ;  d.  5  May  1898  ;  bur.  at 
Grittleton. 


Henry  Kearney  Boldero,  b.=f=Grace  Cecilia, 
‘  '  ~  '  ’  da.  of  .  .  .  . 

Wyld,  Esq. ;  d. 
1886 ;  bur.  at 
Grittleton. 


Steuart  Trench,  Esq.,  son  1831 ;  Trin.  Coll.  Camb.,  B. A 
of  Rev.  Thomas  Trench,  1854,  M.A.  1857  ;  Rector  of 
Dean  of  Raplioe,  and  brother  Yatton  Keynall ;  now  Rector 
of  the  first  Lord  Ashtown.  of  Grittleton,  Wilts. 


George  Payne  of 
Bad  wellAsh,  Esq., 
J.P.  for  Suffolk, 
living  unmarried 
1898. 


- 1 

Mary,  b. 
1790 ;  mar. 
Rev.  .  .  , 
Dodson  ;  d. 
1854;bur.at 
Ixworth. 


— l 

Mary 
Payne, 
living  un¬ 
married 
ISPS. 


Mary,  died 
at  Malta. 


Harry  Stuart,  Lieut., 
R.N. ;  d.  1887,  aet.  24. 


Ruth,  mar.  Oct.  1890,  Lieut.  Montague  Browning,  R.N., 
eld.  son  of  Col.  Browning  of  Brantham  Court,  Suffolk. 


Walter,  1869,  in 
Holy  Orders,  1897. 


Maud 

Emily. 

Z 


Cecile 

Mary. 


Ethel 

Grace. 


186 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ikfctgree  35.  Boltiero  of  Battlesben. 


Simon  Boldero,  bapt.  at  Ixworth,  1660  ;  B.A.,  Jesus  Coll.=j=Joan  Cooke  of  Little  Liver- 
Camb.,  1679  ;  M.A.,  1683  ;  Vicar  of  Gt.  Barton  and  ' 

Rector  of  Woolpit,  1715.  Will,  Cur.  N.,  23  May  1720, 
proved  17  April  1723.  Bur.  at  Barton  12  March  1723. 


mere,  mar.  1688.  Admon. 
26  July  1731,  to  Jane  Bol¬ 
dero,  her  daughter. 


John  Boldero, Rector  of  Woolpit,  only  son  and=j=Martha 
heir  in  1725;  B.A.,  Christ’s  Coll.  Camb..  1718; 
deviseel749  of  JohuBoldero,  his  uncle,  Rector 
of  Clipston ;  died  17  Oct.  1753  ;  bur,  at 
Woolpit. 


Taylor  of 
Woolpit  ;  mar.  17 
Oct.  1728  ;  bur.  at 
Woolpit,  25  Aug. 
1746. 


Mary,  named 
1720  in  her 
father’s  will  ; 
was  Mary 
Kent  in  1753. 


Joan,  born  1699  ; 
named  1720  in  her 
father’s  will  ;  was 
Jane  Paine,  widow, 
in  1753. 


- 1 - 

Martha,  born 
1692  ;  was 
Martha  Stut¬ 
ter  in  1720. 


Anne,  born 
1689  ;  was 
Anne  Wright 
in  1720  and 
1753. 


1 


Johu  Boldero,  Rector  of=pAnn  ....  Simon  Boldero  ofp=Susanna,  dau,  of 


Ampton,  co.  Suffolk,  son  buried  at 
and  heir ;  born  16  Oct.  Ampton, 
1729;  B. A.,  Christ’s  Coll.  11  March 
Camb.,  1752  ;  died  1781./)\1784. 

See  Pedigree  A. 


Woolpit,  born  30 
Dec.  1730  :  bapt.  28 
Jan.  1731 ;  d.  25 
Mar.  1784  ;  bur.  at 
Woolpit. 


Gardiner  of 
Woolpit,  Gent.;  mar. 
6  Oct.  1757  ;  died  5 
July  1784  ;  bur.  at 
Woolpit. 


Roger  Boldero,  Martha,  born  Anne,  b.  1735. 
born  27  Dec.  1733  ;  mar.  — 

1731  ;  bur.  at  1757,  Simon  Mary,  b.  1736;  d.  1737. 
Woolpit,  26  Hunt  of  Nor-  — 

June  1756.  ton,  co.  Suf-  Elizabeth,  b.  1741  ;  d. 
folk,  Gent.  1754. 


I-*' 


Roger  Boldero=pDeborahPoole 


TT 

Elizabeth. 


TTT 

George, 


John  Boldero  of^pSusan 


Mary  Heasle-=pSimon 


of  Bury  St.  Ed- 

of  Monks 

Elizabeth 

Sarah  and 

Bury  St.Edmunds, 

Cocksedge, 

wood, 

born 

of  Drinkstone  ; 

rounds,  born 

Eleigh  ;  died 

Martha,  & 

Elizabeth 

b  1771  ;  d.  1838; 

d.  1848  ; 

1780  ; 

mar. 

bom  30  Jan. 

1766;  died  1810; 

1 848  ;  bur.  at 

Elizabeth. 

Susan, died 

bur.  in  the  Mauso- 

bur.  at 

1804;diedl845; 

1769;  died  1824; 

bur.  at  Wool- 
pit. 

j 

Woolpit. 

d.  young. 

young. 

leum,  Bury  St. 
Edmunds. 

Bury. 

L 

bur  atWoolpit. 
Second  wife. 

bur.  at  Wool- 
pit. 

r— 

Elizabeth,  1796; 
died  1812  ;  bur, 
at  Woolpit. 


Roger,  died  1843, 
unm,  ;  bur.  at 
BurySt.  Edmunds- 


Susan,  mar. 
CharlesParker 
and  had  issue. 


Sarah,  died 
in  infancy, 
1806. 


John,  died 
unm.  at 
Troston. 


John  Boldero, 
only  child,  died 
unmarried. 


Boldero=pElizabeth 

SusanNunn, 
died  1801, 
aged  27. 
First  wife. 


John  Boldero  of  Rattles- 
den,  born  3  Oct.  1806  ; 
bapt.  at  Stowmarket;  died 
31  Dec.  1885  ;  bur.  at 
Rattlesden. 


Mary  Anne,  born  1834; 
died  unm.  1894. 

Sarah  Maria,  b.  1835  ; 
mar.  William  Man- 
field  of  I  x  worthThorpe 
1858,  and  has  issue. 


=Sarah  Maria,  dau.  of  John 
Raynham  of  Drinkstone  ;  b. 
29  Dec.  1811  ;  mar.  16  Oct. 
1829  ;  died  20  Sept.  1879  ; 
bur.  at  Rattlesden. 


Susan,  born  1808; 
married  George 
Pledger  and  died 
.  .  .  . ;  bur.  at 
Rattlesden. 


Martha,  born 
1813;  mar. 
WilliamRan- 
som  and  died 
1851. 


William  Bol¬ 
dero, bornl818; 
mar.  AnnaCar- 
olineRaynliam; 
died  1851,  s.p. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  Thomas 
Markham,  and  died  1877, 
leaving  issue. 


George  Boldero  of=pSophiaRan- 
Ashfield,  co.Suff. ;  I  som,  mar. 
bur.  therein  1865.  |  1830. 

i - 1 

George  William,  b.  1837,  and 
other  issue. 


- 1 — i — i - 

AnnaCaroline,b.l837 

Helen,  b.  1839,  mar. 
Charles  Brasnett  of 
Gt.  Yarmouth  ;  has 
issue. 

Joseph,  born  1842  ; 
died  1845. 


- ! - 

Isabella  Jane, 
born  1844  ;  mar. 
Rev.  William 
Coleman,  Vicar 
of  Moreton  Mor¬ 
rell, co.  Warwick; 
has  2  sons, 


- 1 — i - 

Joseph  John,  born 
1847  ;  Mar.  1,  s.p. 

Alexander  Samuel, 
born  1848  ;  mar. 
and  settled  in  New 
Zealand  ;  has  is- 


Alice  Emma,  born 
1850;  d.  1883 

Henry  Francis, 
born  1852  ;  mar. 
Fanny,  da.  of  Rev. 
Richard  Proctor, 
Vicar  of  Kenniug- 
hall,  Norf. 


Edmund  Raynham  and  Lons¬ 
dale  James,  born  1854  ;  mar. 
Jaue.  da.  of  Sampson  Bell  of 
Hargrave,  Suff. 

Albert  John  Boldero  of  Rattles¬ 
den,  born  1857;  m.  1897  Mary, 
da.  of  John  Blaxall  Oxborrow 
of  Capel  ;  has  a  da.,  b.  1898. 


Johu  Simon  Boldero,  eldest=pEmma,  da.  of  Joseph 
son,  bom  12  Nov.  1830  ;  Brook  Burrell  of 
of  Corpus  Christi  Coll.,  Arthur  s  Seat,  Vic- 
Camb.,  B.A.,  1855  ;  M.A.,  toria  &  Fornham  St. 
1859.  Vicar  of  Amblecote,  Martin;  born  1835  ; 
Staffordshire,  since  1866.  mar.atFornham,1859 


George  Thomas  Boldero, 
2d  sou,  born  1832  ; 
mar.  1860  Kate  Spurling 
of  Ipswich  ;  settled  in 
New  Zealand,  and  has 
issue. 


Frederick  Boldero  of  Peukridge, 
Staffs.,  a  surgeon  ;  born  1841  ; 
mar.  Fanny,  da  of  Joseph  Webb 
of  Amblecote,  and  has  issue  : — 
Alexander  Francis  John,  born 
1874;  Frederick  Fitzroy,  born 
1882  ;  and  two  daughters. 


- 1 

Arthur 
bert  Boldero, 
born  1845  ; 
Captain,  R.N. 


Her-=pClara,  dau. 
of  J  oseph 
Webb  of 
Coal  bourn 
House,  Am¬ 
blecote. 


John  Herbert  Bol-=Sarah  Jane, 
dero,  Schoke  Cancell.  da.  of  Wil- 
Lincoln,  in  Holy  Or-  liam  Cart- 
ders  ;  bom  12  Nov.  wriglit  of 
1865,  at  Enville,  Blankney, 
Vicar  of  Martin,  co.  Lincoln- 
Lincoln  since  1896.  shire,  mar. 

1897. 


Katherine  Mary  Beatrice, born  atEu- 

Emma,  ville,1863;  mar.  Sept.  1890 

born  at  Rev.  Win.  Shuckforth 

Enville,  Grigson,  M.A.,  Vicar  of 

1860.  Pelynt, co. Cornwall, eldest 

son  of  the  late  Rev.  Wm. 
Grigson,  Rector  of  Whin- 
burgh, Norf  oik.  Has  issue. 


Henry  Lonsdale 
Boldero, inHolyOr- 
ders,  Scholaj  Cancl. 
Lincoln;  born  1868 
at  Amblecote. 

Ernest  Arthur, 
born  1873. 


Margaret  Frances 
Sydney,  born  1869. 

Mabel  Agnes,  born 
1871  ;  died  1890. 

Charles  Octavius 
Ebsworth,  b.  1875. 


Seymour 
Boldero, 
bom  1882; 
Midship¬ 
man,  R.N., 
1898. 


Guy 
Boldero, 
2d  son 
born 
1883. 


BOLDERO  OF  FORNHAM. 


187 


^elngree  C.  38oltieco  of  Porfislnre. 


Thomas  Boldero  of  Fornham  St.  Martin,  2d  son  of  Edmund  Boldero=j=Margery,  dau.  of 


Betts  of 


and  half  brother  to  John  Coggeshall. 
Aug.  25  Eliz.,  proved  3  Aug.  1588. 


Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  dated  13 


Norfolk  ;  mar.  at  Fornham,  12 
July  1559  ;  living  29  April  1588. 


- - 1  i - 1 — i - 1 

John  Boldero  of  Bury^pMary,  daughter  of  Reynold  Tillott  Robert  Boldero,  2d  Cecily,  bapt.  Elizabeth, bapt.  1564.  Isabel,  wife  of  .  .  . 
St.  Edmunds,  Gent.,  of  Rougham,  co.  Suff.  ;  sister  to  son,  bapt.  1563  ;  1561;m.Chas.  —  Brook,  1570,  when 

son  and  h.,  bapt.  at  Leonard  Tillott  of  Ipswich.  Her  mar.  at  Fornham  St.  Woodward  of  Francis,  named  1588  Cecily  Cage,  her 

Fornham,  1560  ;  will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  6  Aug.  1636,  Martin,  1591,  Eliza-  Tilteshall,  co.  in  his  father’s  will.  aunt,  made  her 

buried  there  1583.  was  proved  14  Jan.  following.  beth  King.  Norfolk.  will. 


Thomas  Boldero, 
2d  son,  aged  17  in 
1612.  Camden. 


Leonard  Boldero, 
3d  son,  aged  13 
in  1612.  Camden. 


- i - 

George  Boldero, 
4th  son,  aged  10 
in  1612.  Camden. 


Frances  Boldero  & 
Mary,  died  before 
1612.  Camden.  S.P. 


Mary,  aged  18  in  1612.  Camden.  Mar. 
Samuel  Moody  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
Esq. ,  who  made  will,  P.O.C.  1 8  Feb  1657. 


Elizabeth, aged  1 4in 
1612.  Camden.  Wife 
of  ...  Crispe,  1636. 


- ! - 1 - 1 

John  Boldero,  son=j=Jane,  da.  of  Aud-  Henry  Boldero,  5th  son,=j=Susau,  sister  of  Edmund  Boldero,  7th  son,  aged  Anne,  aged  12 


and  heir,  aged  22 
in  1612.  Camden. 
Of  Mildenhall,  co. 
Suffolk,  Gent.,  1622 


ley  Baker  of  Isle- 
ham,  co.  Oamb., 
Gent.  ;  mar.  set¬ 
tlement,  1620. 


A 


aged  8  in  1612.  Camden. 
Of  Dordrecht  in  Holland, 
1660,  when  he  made  will, 
P.C.C.  5  May.  Lands  in 
Barton  Turf,  co.  Norfolk. 


TobiasDehem  of  3  in  1612.  Camden.  D.D.  and  in  1612.  Cam - 
Norwich :  liviug  Master  of  Jesus  Coll.,  Camb.,  den.  Wife  of 
1670.  Boldero  c.  29  March  1679,  when  he  made  John  White, 
Boldero ,  Mil-  will ;  Vice-Chancellor  of  the  Uni-  1636. 
ford  II.  versity,  1666  and  1674. 


John  Boldero,  eldest 
son,  of  Dordrecht, 
Merchant.  Will, 
P.C.C.  100  Bruce,  17 
May  1664,  proved  16 
Sept,  following. 
Lands  in  BartouTurf, 
Norfolk. 


Henry  Boldero,  2d  son, 
at  Bury  School,  1656  ; 
A.B.1660Queen’sColl. 
Camb.  ;  of  Whaddon, 
co.  Camb., Clerk,  1670; 
heir  to  his  brother 
John,  1664. 


Daniel  Boldero,  3d  son,  of: 
Barton  Turf,  Norfolk,  and 
after  of  York,  where  he  died. 
Of  Jesus  Coll.,  Camb.,  1666. 
M.  A.  by  Royal  mandate,  1 669. 
Bur.  in  St.  Helen’s  church, 
York,  “in  the  South  Ille 
under  the  great  stone.” 


:Elizabeth,  sole  da.  and 
heir  of  Edward  Gale  of 
Combrough  in  Sheriff 
Hutton,  Yorks.  She  d. 
1716.  Will  proved  1717. 
Bur.  in  St.  Helen’s  church, 
York. 


Edward  Bol¬ 

Mary, 

Anne and 

dero,  4th  son, 

wife  of 

Jane,  ap¬ 

of  London, 

Smart 

parently 

Merchant, 1668. 

Good- 

unmar. 

“Elizabeth, 

enough, 

1664. 

da.  of  JohnWar- 

1660  ; 

ren  of  Snail- 

had  issue. 

well,  Gent. 

H  1 


Edward  Gale  Boldero,  son  and  heir,  of  Corn-=j=Mary,  sole  dau.  and  heiress  of  Wm.  Lewyns,  Esq ,  Henry  Boldero,  2d  Three  daughters 


borough,  Yorkshire,  and  also  a  Banker  in  York  ; 
born  1631  ;  died  1761,  aged  80. 


of  Esk,  co.  York,  and  Margaret,  his  wife,  2d  dau.  son;  drowned  ;  ob.  (two  married), 
of  Sir  Edward  Barnard  of  North  Dalton,  Yorks.  uum.  and  s  p.  died  s.p. 


Lewyns  Boldero,  son  and  heir,  b.= 
1708, of  Cornborough,  and  of  Cave 
Castle,  co.  York, which  he  inherited 
from  his  mother’s  uncle,  Henry 
Barnard,  Esq.  Took,  by  Royal 
License, the  name  and  arms  of  Bar¬ 
nard  in  addition  to  those  of  Bol¬ 
dero.  Ob.  1783;  bur.  inSt. Mary’s, 
Beverley. 


=Ann,  da.  of  Wm. 
Popplewell, 
M.D.,  of  Monk 
Hall  in  Ponte¬ 
fract  ;  b.  1729  ; 
mar.  2  Jan.  1755; 
d.  1797  ;  bur.  in 
St.  Mary’s  ch., 
Beverley. 


Edward=Estlier 


Gale  Bol¬ 
dero,  2dr" 
son  ;  a 
Bencher 
of  Gray’s 
Inn. 


Brass  of 
Richmond 
and  had 
a  dau., 
Mary, aged 
lOin  1769. 


John  Boldero, =i=Esther,  Henry  Bol-=j=. 


3d  son  ;  of  As-  dau. 
penden  Hall,  of  D. 
Herts., aBanker  Stone, 
of  St.  Andrew’s,  Esq.,  of 
Holborn,  Lon-  Bath, 
don.  /(\ 

See  Pedigeee  D. 


dero,4tli  son, 
of  Aviary 
Hill,  near 
Eltham, 
Kent  ;  b. 
1723. 


dau.of 

Ran¬ 

dall. 


A 

See  Pedigeee  D. 


- 1 

A  dau.  mar¬ 
ried  to  .  .  . 
Hutchinson. 


A  dau.  mar¬ 
ried  to  .  .  . 
Fallowfield. 


Henry  Boldero  Barnard  of=j=Sarah  Elizabeth,  dau. 


Cave  Castle,  Beverley,  Yorks. 
Sold  the  Manor  of  Corn- 
borough.  circa  1797,  and  died 
6  Feb.  1815. 


of  Roger  Gee,  Esq.,  of 
Bishop  Barton  ;  mar. 
23  Apiil  1783. 


Lewyns  Boldero,  born  1758  ;  died 
1824  ;  bur.  in  St.  Mary,  Beverley; 
and  left  a  dau.,  married  1821  to 
Captain  John  Ditmas,  who  died 
1827,  aged  27,  leaving  daughters. 


- ! - 

Anne,  born  1756  ;  mar¬ 
ried  Robert,  first  Lord 
Carrington.  She  died 
1827.  See  Peerage. 


Henry  Gee  Barnard,  son  and 
heir,  of  Cave  Castle ;  born 
1789  ;  mar.  1834,  Elizabeth, 
dau.  of  Henry  Elliot,  Esq.  ; 
died  1858,  s.p. 


Charles  Lewyns  Barnard, 
2d  son,  born  1790  ;  Cap¬ 
tain,  Scots’  Greys.  Killed 
at  Waterloo,  and  buried 
on  the  field. 


Edward  William  Barnard,  3d=pPhiladelpliia,  Frances, 


son ;  born  1 79 1 ;  in  HolyOrders ; 
Vicar  of  South  Cave ,  died  at 
Chester,  1827  ;  bur.  in  Lady 
Chape],  Chester  Cathedral. 


dau.  of  Archdeacon 
Wrangham  ;  married 
1821  ;  died  1880. 


Mary,  married  1808 
James  Bankes  of 
Wakefield,  Esq.  Ob. 
s.p.,  1834. 


Edward  Charles  Gee  Boldero-Barnard,  son  and  heir,=pSophia  Letitia,  dau.  of  the  Honble.  Andrew  Godfrey  Stuart  of 
J.P.,  of  Cave  Castle,  Yorkshire  ;  born  23  March  1822;  I  Lisdhu,  co.  Tyrone,  second  son  of  Andrew  Thomas,  Earl  of 
died  1895.  |  Castlestuart ;  mar.  5  June  1862  ;  living  1898. 

I - 1 

Ursula  Mary  Florence,  born  4  July  1869  ;  living  1898. 


Sarah  Elinor,  b.  1810; 
married  1832  Joseph 
Delpratt,  Esq. ,  of 
Jamaica. 

I 

rn — i — LTTTn 

Joseph,  Henry,  and 
seven  daughters. 


188 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


jpe&tgree  B.  3Soltiero  of  $spent>eit  Hall. 

Sir  Edward  Barnard  of  North  Dalton,  co.  York,  Recorder  of  Hull  and  Beverley, 
mar.  and  had  issue  ;  died  19  Jan.  1686  ;  bur.  in  St.  Mary’s  church,  Beverley. 


Daniel  Boldero  of  Barton= 
Turf,  Norfolk,  admitted 
Jesus  Coll.  Camb.,  1666  ; 
M.A.,  1669  ;  nephew  and 
heir  to  Edmund  Boldero, 
D.D.,  Master  of  Jesus, 
1679.  Settled  at  York, 
where  he  died  and  was 
buried. 


:Elizabeth,  sole  da. 
and  heiress  of  Ed¬ 
ward  Galeof  Corn- 
borough,  co.  York; 
died  1716.  Will, 
proved  1717.  Bur. 
in  St.  Helen’s 
church,  York. 


Margaret=j=William  Lewyns  or 
Barnard,  ~  ' 

younger 
daughter. 

( Her  elder 
sister  died 
s.p.) 


Leviuz  of  Esk,  co.  York, 
representative  of  a 
French  Hugenot  family, 
which  took  refuge  in 
England  after  the  mas¬ 
sacre  of  St.  Bartholo¬ 
mew. 


Henry  Barnard,  M.D.,  youngest  son=Eleanor,  only 
and  eventually  heir,  of  Cave  Castle,  dau.  of  Sir  Chris- 
near  Beverley  died  s.p.  1769,  and  topher  Lowther 
left  the  Cave  Castle  estates  to  of  Whitehaven, 
his  grand-nephew,  Lewyns  Boldero,  Cumberland, 
who  took  the  name  of  Barnard  by  and  aunt  to 
Royal  License.  See  pedigree  regis-  the  first  Lord 
tered  in  the  Heralds’  College,  A.D.  Lonsdale. 

1770. 


Edward  Gale  Boldero,  son  and  heir,  of  Cornborough,  and=f=Mary,  da.  and  sole  heiress  of  William  Lewyns,  Esq.,  of  Esk,  co.  York,  and  his  wife, 
also  a  Banker  in  York  ;  born  1681  ;  died  1761,  aged  80.  Margaret,  2d  dau.  of  Sir  Edward  Barnard  of  North  Dalton,  Yorks. 


LewynsBol deroof  Cave: 
Castle,  near  Beverley, 
bornl  708 ;  heir  toHenry 
Barnard,  M.D.,  his 
great-uncle;  had  Royal 
License  to  assume  name 
and  arms  of  Barnard.  /t\ 

Pedigree  C. 


Anne,  dau.  of 
Wm.  Popple- 
well  of  Monk 
Hill  in  Ponte¬ 
fract,  M.D. 


Edward  Gale  Bol¬ 
dero,  2d  son,  a 
Bencher  of  Gray’s 
Inn  = .  .  .  da.  of 
Brass  of  Rich¬ 
mond,  and  had 
issue,  Mary,  aged 
10  in  1769. 


John  Boldero,  3d  son,= 
of  Stapleton  Park, 
Darrington,  York  ; 
then  of  Aspenden 
Hall, Herts. ;  aBanker 
of  St  Andrew’s,  Hol- 
born, London;  d. 1789; 
bur.  at  Aspenden. 


- 1 — i - 

Esther, dau . mar. 


i - 1 - 

John  Boldero,  born  Charles  Boldero  of 
1756;  Edward, born  Aspenden  Hall,  Herts.; 
1757  ;  and  .  .  .  the  born  1758  ;  bapt.  at 
youngest  son,  died  Darrington ;  mar.,  but 
unmarried.  left  no  issue. 


William  Boldero,  in  Holy  Orders  ;  Trin. 
nail.  Camb.,  B.A.,  1791  ;  M.A.,  1794; 
Rector  of  Carlton  near  Newmarket,  and 
of  Ilford,  Essex.  Ob.  unm.  1833.  Chap¬ 
lain  in  Ordinary  to  the  Prince  of  Wales 
(afterwards  George  IY.) 


of  D  .  .  . 
Stone,  Esq., 
of  Bath  ; 
d.  1811  ; 
bur.  at  As- 
peuden. 


to  ...  . 
Hutchinson 

....  mar. 
to  ...  . 
Fallowfield . 


Henry  Bol-= 
dero,  4  th 
son,  of 
Aviary  Hill, 
near  El- 
tham,Kent; 
born  1723. 


Eliza¬ 
beth, dau. 
of  James 
Randall 
of  Lon¬ 
don,  Esq. 


Edward  Gale  Boldero,  =j=Sophia,  da.  of  John 


only  son  and  heir,  of 
Aviary  Hill,  Kent;  born 
16  Aug.  1757  ;  mar.  26 
June  1788  ;  died  1851, 
aged  94. 


I - - - 

Esther,  bapt.  at  Dar¬ 
rington,  1 7f  3;  mar.  Sir 
Stephen  Lushington, 
Bart.,  who  died  in  1807. 


.  .  .  mar.  Thos. 
Hibberd,  Esq.,  of 
Chalfont  ;  died  at 
Dorling  ;  ob.  s.p. 


Sophia,  mar.  Genl.  Denzil  Onslow 
of  Staughton  House,  Huntingdon¬ 
shire,  who  died  in  1838,  and  had 
issue.  See  Burke ,  1857  Ed.,  p.  886. 


Lonsdale  Boldero,  3d  son,  b.1792; 
Col.,  late  of  Grenadier  Guards  ; 
godson  of  Lord  Lonsdale;  d.uum. 
20  Jan.  1863  ;  bur.  atNuthurst. 


Cornwall,  Esq. .  of  Hen¬ 
don;  adesceudantof  the 
Cornewalls,  Barons  of 
Burford,  Herefordshire. 


Sophia,  born  1794  ; 
died  unmarrried. 


Sir  Henry  Lushington ,=j=Fanny 
Baronet,  son  and  heir,  Maria, 
born  1775  ;  succeeded  dau.  of 
his  uncle,  Charles  Bol-  Matthew 
dero,  in  the  Aspenden  Lewis, 
Hall  estates.  A^sq- 

See  Baronetages. 


Stephen  Lushington, 
D.C.L.,  Judge  of  the 
Admiralty  Court  and 
Court  of  Arches  ; 
mar.  and  had  issue, 
a  dau.,  mar.  to  Ven. 
Archdeacon  Norris. 


Henry  Bo!  dero  of  South^-pMargaret.  da.  of 


Lodge,  Horsham,  Sus¬ 
sex  (late  a  Captain  in 
the  Army  ;  served  at 
Waterloo) ;  born  1788  ; 
d.  1  Mar.  1859  ;  bur.  at 
Nuthurst. 


Win  Christie, Esq. , 
of  Hoddesden, 
Herts.  ;  died  12 
April  1882,  aged 
93  ;  bur.  at  Nut¬ 
hurst. 


John  Stephen 
dero,  2d  son,  born 
1790 ;  E.I.C.S.  ;  for 
45  years  a  Judge  in 
India;  died  inGloster 
Gardens,  Hyde  Park, 
1858. 


Bol-=j=Louisa, 
dau.  of 


Margaret,  only  child,  born  1822  ;  married  in  1868  ;  second=Colonel  Barttelot,  M.P.,  afterwards  Sir  Walter  Barttelot  of  Stopham, 
wife  ;  s.p.  ;  died  28  Jan.  1893  ;  bur.  at  Stopham.  Sussex,  Bart.  ;  died  2  Feb.  1893  ;  bur.  at  Stopham. 


Temple¬ 

ton, 

Esq. 


Edward  James  Boldero,^  E.I.C.S.,  John  Cornwall  Boldero,  married  and  Tempe  Stanley,  mar.  Louisa  Margaret,  mar.  General 

married,  but  died  s.p.  1879,  leaving  has  issue  ;  died  Aug.  1896,  in  London.  Capt.  Drew,  and  left  ThomasChamberlain  ;  s.p.  ;  died 

a  widow,  living  1897.  =p  issue.  1897  ;  both  are  bur.  at  Histon. 


I  ’  ~ ]  - - 1 -  -  1  ■■  ■— ] 

1.  Edward  John  2.  Louisa  Jane.  3.  Alice  Sophia.  4.  Ellen  Templeton.  5.  Henry  Cornwall  Boldero  of 
Boldero.  Brisbane,  Queensland,  in  1877. 


of  feenton. 


Armorial  fterittgs. 

The  Arms  of  Garneys  of  Kenton,  as  tricked  in  Marl.  MS.  1560,  are  quarterly  of  twelve : — 

1.  Garneys. — Argent,  a  chevron  engrailed,  Azure,  between  three  escallops,  Sable. 

2.  Ramsey. — Gules,  three  rams’  heads  cabosed,  Argent. 

3.  Wellysham. —  Sable,  two  bars,  Or,  in  chief  three  cinquefoils  of  the  Second. 

4.  Kenton. — Sable,  a  chevron  between  three  cinquefoils,  Or. 

5.  Francis. — Gules,  a  chevron  engrailed,  Ermine,  between  three  “  facons  ”  rising,  Argent, 

beaked  and  membred,  Or. 

6.  Deneston. — Azure,  two  lions  passant  guardant,  Or. 

7.  Wanton. — Argent,  on  a  chevron,  Sable,  a  cross-crosslet  of  the  field. 

8.  Suliard. — Argent,  a  chevron,  Gules,  between  three  pheons,  Sable. 

9.  Hungate. — Gules,  a  chevron  between  three  “houds  seant,”  Argent. 

10.  Bacon. — Azure,  three  boars  passant,  Or. 

11.  Antingham. — Sable,  a  bend,  Argent. 

12.  Baynard. — Sable,  a  fesse  between  two  chevrons,  Or. 

With  this  tricking,  the  drawings  of  the  Garneys  shield,  in  Marl.  MS.  1820,  are  in 

substantial  agreement,  but  Wanton’s  cross-crosslet  is  fitchee  and  Hungate’s  chevron  is  engrailed. 

The  crest  is  a  cubit  arm  erased,  grasping  a  scimitar  embrued,  all  proper.  In  Marl.  MS. 
1820,  fo.  51b,  the  scimitar  is  liilted,  Or.  The  latter  MS.  (fo.  43,)  gives  a  second  crest  for 

Garneys,  viz : — A  mermaid,  Argent,  crined  and  finned,  Or,  holding  a  comb  of  the  second  in  her 
dexter  hand . 

The  following  note  appended  to  the  tricking  in  Hall.  MS.  1560,  explains  some  of  the 
quarterings. 

Thomas  Bacon  was  the  sonn  and  heire  of  John  Bacon  of  Baconsthorpe  in  Norff.  esqr  and 
of  Margerett  his  wife,  daughter  and  heire  of  Bob.  Baynard  of  Speccishall  in  Suff,  esqr,  wch  John 

Bacon  was  the  sonn  and  heire  of  Roger  sonn  and  heire  of  S’’  Thomas  Bacon  and  AUice  his  ivife 

daughter  and  heire  Sr  Barthelmew  Antingham  Knt. 

Marl.  MS.  1820,  has  also  an  achievement  for  “  John  Garneys  of  Kenton,”  evidently 
meaning  John  Garneys  of  Mendlesham,  whose  mother  was  the  heiress  of  Toppesfield,  viz.  Quarterly 
of  nine,  1  to  7  as  before.  8.  Toppesfield,  Gules,  on  a  chevron,  Ermine,  three  martlets,  Sable ; 
and  9.  Church,  Sable,  on  a  fesse  between  three  fleurs-de-lys,  Argent,  as  many  escallops,  Gules. 

Ample  pedigrees  of  Garneys  were  recorded  in  the  Suffolk  Visitations,  in  1561,  1612  and 
1664.  The  Davy  MSS.  give  fifty-eight  closely  written  pages  of  Garneys’  wills,  escheats,  deeds  and 
monumental  inscriptions,  contributed  for  the  most  part  by  the  late  Thomas  Bond,  Esq.,  of  Tyneham, 
Wareham,  a  descendant  of  the  family. 


190 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(barneys  of  Benton. 


Aveline,  named  in  the  will=j=Robert  Garneys,  Esq.  of  Beecles  ;  died  14  May— Catherine,  da  of  .  .  .  Brooke.  Harl.  MS.  1103.  (Da. 
of  William  Garneys,  1421,  I  1411.  Inscription  formerly  in  Beccles  church,  of  John  Blanchard,  Esq.,  of  Heveningham.  Illume  field.) 
and  probably  his  mother.  I  I Yeever.  Bought  Little  Redisham  Manor,  1394.  Buried  1405  in  Beccles  church.  Wcever. 

r— - 1 - -  - -  - — - “I 


Elizabeth,— Peter  Garneys,  Esq.,  of= 
1st  wife,  RoosHallin  Beccles, son 

named  in  and  heir.  Will,  3  Sept, 
her  hus-  1451. proved  at  Norwich 

band’s  5  Feb.  foil  owing,  30  H.  6. 

will. 


Anne,  da.  and  coll,  of  Ralph  Ramsey 
of  Kenton  Hall,  Suffolk,  by  Alice,  da. 
and  h.  of  Sir  Roger  Wellysham  aud 
of  Alice,  Ills  wife,  da.  and  h.  of  .  .  . 
Kenton  of  Kenton  Hall ;  married 
before  8  H.  6. 


William  Garneys, Esq .,=p  Elizabeth,  da.  and  n.  of  Sir  Ralph  Bigot 


of  Geldeston,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk.  Will.  13  Feb. 
1421,  proved  at  Nor- 
wich,  6  April  1425, 
4  H.  6. 


of  Stockton,  co.  Norfolk,  by  Elizabeth,  his 
wife  da.  and  coll,  of  Sir  Thomas  Mortimer 
of  Attleburgh  ;  married  before  5  H.  4  ; 
bur.  in  the  church  of  the  Austin  Friars, 
Norwich.  Weever.  Died  in  or  beforelO  II.5. 


Thomas  Gar-=j=Margaret,  da.  and  coll.  Elizabeth, living=EdmundGarney8,Esq.=j-Matilda,  da.  of 

1451,  da  of  Sir  to  whom  his  father  Thomas  Ellys, 
John  Jeruey  of  gaveRoosHall  Manor;  Mayor  of  Norwich. 
Metfield  ;renupt.  died  3  May  1485.  M. I.  See  Bloniefield  for 
Henry  Repps  of  formerly  in  Beccles  M.l.  formerly  in 
Heveningham.  church  to  him  and  window  of  St. 
Harl.  MS.  1552.  Elizabeth,  his  wife.  Peter’s,  Maucroft, 
Weever.  in  that  city. 


neys,  Esq.,  of 
Kenton,  sou 
and  h.  ;  mar. 
before  3  Sept. 
14-51 ;  died  12 
Dec.  37  H.  6, 
1458. 


of  Sir  Hugh  Franceys 
of  Giffords  H  al  1  in  W ick- 
hambrook.  She  mar. 
secondly  Thomas  Pey¬ 
ton  of  Iselham,  co. 
Catnb.,  Esq.,  and  died 
3  June  1492. 


Ralph  Garneys, 
Esq.,  of  Geldeston ; 
had  livery,  13  June 
7  H.  6,  of  the  Ab¬ 
bot  of  Bury  ;  died 
s.p.  shortly  before 
20  Oct.  1446. 


- 1 — I 

Robert  Garneys, 
2d  son, died  before 
his  brother,  s.p. 

Margaret  Gar¬ 
neys,  died  s.p.  be¬ 
fore  her  brother 
Ralph. 


JohuGarneys,Esq.,=j=Elizabetli,d.&  h.  of 


of  Kenton  Hall 
aet.  48  in  1492. 
Will,  dated  20 
July  1522,  proved 
at  Norwich  8  Aug. 
1524.  Buried  in 
Kenton  church. 
Weever. 


John  Garneys,  2d 
son.  Will,  28  Oct. 
1526,  proved  at 
Norwich  29  Jan. 
following.  To  be 
bur.  in  St.  Peter’s 
church,  Ipswich. 
Married,  but  s.p. 


Sir  John  Sulyard  of 
Wetherden ;  Chief 
J  ustice  ofEngland; 
died  2  April  1539; 
bur.  in  Badley  ch. 
Weever.  Will, 

P.  C.C.  1 8Mar.  1537, 
proved  3  May  1539. 


- TT - 

Thomas  Gar¬ 
neys,  son  and 
heir,  aet.  6  in 
1459  ;  ob.  s.p. 

Margaret,  us. 
John  Bishop 
of  Norwich. 


RichardGarneys=j=Elizabeth,  da.  & 


of  Mendlesham, 
2d  son ;  Lord 
of  the  Manor  of 
Boy  land  Hall  in 
Morningthorpe, 
Norff.  ;  died  14 
May  1515. 


i - ; - 

Anne,  liviug 
1 537, ux.  Edward 
Grimston  of 
Rishangles  in  co. 
Suffolk.  She 
was  a  widow  in 
1522. 


.  .  .  ux.  Wm. 
Thwaytes  of 
Norfolk. 


WilliamGarneys 
of  London.  Will, 
P.C.C.  18  Sept. 
1525,  prob.  17 
Nov.  following  ; 
desires  to  be  bur. 
at  Badley  in 
Suff.  ;  ob.  s.p. 


Mirabel, 
us.  Ed¬ 
mond 
Poley  of 
Badley, 
both  liv¬ 
ing  1537. 


Elizabeth, 
ux.  An- 
thonyYax- 
ley  of  Yax¬ 
ley,  Esq, 
Sergeant- 
at-Law. 


Anne,ux.  Tho. 
Sherland  of 
Mendlesham, 
whose  grand¬ 
son,  Thomas 
Sherland,  was 
coh.  to  Richard 
Garneys,  1585. 
r- 


Dorothy,  ux. 
John  Downes, 
Esq., of  Melton, 
co.Norff., whose 
grandson,  John 
Downes  was  coh. 
to  Richard  Gar¬ 
neys,  Esq., 1585. 


h.  of  William 
Toppesfield  of 
Gislingham,  by 
Eleanor,  da.  and 
h.  of  Richard  le 
Cherche  of  Gis¬ 
lingham. 


- 1 - 1 

Sir  Christopher  Gar-  Thomas1 
neys,  Janitor  of  Garneys, 
Calais  ;  Knighted  at  bur.  at 
Tourraine,  25  Dec.  Beccles, 

5  H.  8  ;  ob.  s.p.  1527. 

J oan,  his  relict,  made  M.L  for- 
will,  27  Aug.  1550,  merly  in 
proved  P.C.C.  12  the  ch. 
May  15-52.  Weever. 


Anne,  da.  of 
Tho.  Bramp¬ 
ton  of  Bramp¬ 
ton,  Norff., 
and  relict  of 
John  Wych- 
ingharn,  Esq., 
a  widow  in 
1532. 


John  Garneys,  the 
younger,  4th  son. 
Harl.  MSS.  1560, 
&c.  Devisee  1535 
of  his  brother, 
Thomas  Garneys, 
the  priest. 


Alice,  da.  of=Thomas  Garneys,  Esq.,=Ursula,  da.  of  Edward 
Sir  William  of  Beccles.  MI.  in  Read,  Alderman  of 
Bio  Norton  church, 

Norff.  Will,  30  July 
1540,  proved  at  Nor¬ 
wich,  1541.  Roos  Hall 
to  Ursula,  his  wife.  Ob. 
s.p. 

— i 


Rous  of  Den- 
niugtou,  co. 
Suff.  M.L  in 
Bio  Norton 
church. 


Norwich.  She  married 
2,  Thomas  Browne  of 
Beccles  ;  3.  Sir  John 
Brend  of  Beccles  ;  4, 
Thomas  Colby  of 
Brundish. 


Thomas  Garneys,  3d 
son.  a  priest.  Will, 
P.O.C.3Spert,3Aug. 
1535, proved  28  May 
1541.  Names  “my 
aunt  Sherlaud, 
cousin  Edmoud 
Poley,”  &c. 


T 


Sir  Francis 
Garneys, 
Knt ,  of  the 
Rhodes,  2d 
son.  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


John  Garneys  of  Men-=j=Ursula,  da.  of 


dlesham,Gent.,son&h., 
aet.  22, 1515.  Will, Cur. 
Ep.Norw.,8  April  1552, 
prob.  11  June  1554. 
Manors  of  Boyland 
Hall  aud  of  Winchesters 
in  Mendlesham. 


Thomas 
ney  of 


Ber- 
Ked- 
ham.  co.Norff., 
Esq. ;  a  widow 
22  J  une  1556. 


Anne,  ux.  Thomas 
Wiseman  ofThorn- 
hatn  in  Suffolk, 
who  made  will,  1 
June  1544,  dying 
young. 


Margaret,  ux. 
John  Cotton 
of  Panfield 
Hall  in  com. 
Essex.  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


Jane,  ux.  .  .  . 
Jenney,  devi¬ 
see  1552  of 
her  brother, 
Wm. Garneys; 
then  a  widow. 


- 1 

Agnes  Gar¬ 
neys,  a  nun  at 
Bruysvard, 
151 7,  when  her 
mother  made 
her  will. 


Richard  Garneys  of  Mendlesham,— Margery, da.of 
Esq.,  son  and  heir;  aged  22  in  1554.  James  Tyrrell 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  20  Oct.  1585,  of  Columbine 
proved  19  Feb.  following.  Ob.  s  p.  Hall,  co.  Suff., 
Settled  Boyland  Hall  upon  his  Esq.,  ob.  s.p. 
kinsman,  Nicholas  Garneys  of  Admon.4Feb. 
Kenton  Hall.  1598,  P.C.C. 


Robert  Garneys  of  Kenton  Hall,  Esq., -j-Ann,  d.  if;  coheire  of  Thom.  Bacon  of  Thomas  Garneys  of  Bealings  Magna,  =pMargaret,  da.  of 


heir  of  the  whole  blood  of  his  cousin, 
Sir  William  Sulyard ;  aet.  50  and 
upwards  in  1541  ;  buried  at  Kenton, 
3  Aug.  1556.  Inq.  post  mortem,  2 
Eliz.  ;  manors  of  Reddisham,  Nether- 
hall  in  Eye,  &c. 


Bacons  Thorpe  in  Norff.  <£•  of  his  wife, 
d.  <k  heire  of  Rob  Baynard ,  sonn  <k  heire 
of  John,  sonn  &  heire  of  Sr  Roger,  sonn 
of  S>'  Tho.  As  of  his  'wife,  d.  <Sc  heire  of 
Sr  Barthelmew  Antinoham.  Bacon  Pedi¬ 
gree,  Harl.  MS.  1560. 


co.  Suffolk,  one  of  his  mother’s 
executors,  1517  ;  dead  26  Nov.  1556, 
when  Thomas  Garneys,  his  brother’s 
grandson,  made  his  will.  Admon., 


Cur 


Ep.  Norw.,  13  Jan.  1556. 

See  Garnets 


Sir  Anthony  Bed- 
ingfield  of  Ox- 
burgh,  co.  Norff  ; 
dead  13  Jan.  1556. 


A 

OF  Mickfield. 


John  Garneys  of  Spexhall,  co.q=Anne,  da.  of  Edmund  Roke- 


Suff.  Will,  P.C.C.  12  Tashe, 
29  July  1549,  prob.  7  June 
1553.  Ob.  vitapatris.  Decree, 
P.C.C.  50  Pickering,  anno  1575, 
between  his  dau.  and  his  sister, 
Anne  Wentworth  alias  Bacon. 


wood  of  Eustou,  co.  Suff., 
Esq.  ;  named  in  the  will  of 
Dame  Alice  Burgh, her  mother, 
P.C.C.  24  March  1558,  but 
then  dead  ;  sister  to  Finnyn 
z)\Rokewood. 


See  next  page. 


Elizabeth,  eldest 
dau.,  mar.,  first, 
James  Calthrop 
of  Cockthorpe. 
Norff. ;  secondly, 
Sir  Jerome  Bowes 
of  London. 


Anne,  2d  dau.,  mar.  1st 
toRichardDamport;  2d, 
toRobert  Bacon  of  Har- 
leston  ;  3d,  to  Jervys 
Wentworth  of  Went¬ 
worth  in  Yorkshire. 
Adamport,  Harl.  MS. 
1103. 


Margaret,  married  1st, 
Walter  Devereux, 
Yiscouut  Hereford;  2d, 
J ohn,  Lord  W  illoughby 
of  Parham.  Edward 
Ferrers,  Viscount  Here¬ 
ford,  Harl.  MS.  1560. 


GARNEYS  OF  KENTON. 


191 


barneys  of  lUnton 


John  Garneys  of  Spexhall,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.  (see=j=Anne,  dau.  of  Edmund  Rokewood  of  Euston,  co.  Suffolk, 
preceding  page).  Will,  P.C.C.  12  Tashe,  29  July  I  Esq.  Named  in  the  will  of  Dame  Alice  Burgh,  her 
1549,  proved  7  June  1553.  |  mother,  P.C.C.  24  March  1558,  but  then  dead. 


Thomas  Garneys  of  Keuton=f=Francis,  da.  of  Sir 


Hall,  Esq.,  heir  to  his  grand¬ 
father,  1556,  an  l  then  aged 
18.  Will,  P.C.C.  29  Grimes, 
26  Nov.  1566, proved  17  Oct. 
1567.  Lord  of  Bacon’s 
Manor  in  Baconsthorp. 


John  Sulyard  of 
Wetherdeu.  She 
mar.  2dly  at 
Kenton,  10  July 
1567,  John  Leu- 
thall,  Esq. 


“i  I  r 

John,  Edmund 
and  Robert 
Garneys,  ob. 
s.p.  Admon.  29 
April  1563  to 
Thos.  Garneys, 
their  brother. 


Nicholas  Garneys  of  Redis-; 
hamHalljEsq.;  succeeded  to 
Kenton  on  the  death  ofThos. 
Garneys,  his  brother,  and  to 
Boyland  on  the  death  of 
Rich.  Garneys,  1585.  Will, 
Cur.Ep  Norvv.,-30 Jan.162.3. 


Elizabeth,  sole  da. 
and  heir,  aged  3  in 
1567.  She  mar.  1st, 
William  Jerningliam, 
and  2d,  Philip  Strel- 
ley  of  Strelley,  co. 
Notts.,  and  died  s.p. 


Thomas  Garneys,  2d — Elizabeth,  JohnGarneys,3d=Margaret  Jack- 


sou,  of  Norwich. 
Will  nuncupative, 
16  Feb.  1617,  proved 
by  Nicholas  Garneys, 
his  father  28  Aug. 
1618,  P.C.C. 


relict  of 
Wm.  Forth 
of  Hadley. 
Settlement 
dated  14 
Aug.  1601. 


son,  ob.  vita 
patris.  Eliza¬ 
beth,  his  da.,  ob. 
s.p.  Will,  Arch. 
Suffolk,  30  July 
1617.  Ob.  s.p. 


son.  Her  will, 
P.C.C.  21  Carr, 
dated  26  Oct. 
1665,  proved 
18  Feb.  1666. 
Ob.  s.p. 


-Anne,  da. 
of  Thomas 
Clere  of 
Stokesby, 
co.  Norff. 
Esq.;  dead 
6  Ap.  1628, 


- - 

Alice,  mar. 
John  Bramp¬ 
ton,  Esq.,  27 
Nov. 1559.  Her 
will,  P.C.C.  4 
Fenner, is  da  ted 
1  Aug.  1611. 


Margery,  ux. 
Thos.  Smith 
of  Winston, 
co.  Norfolk, 
Esq.  M.I.  in 
Gillingham 
ch.  Diedl656 


Anne,  ux. 
Rich.Bellemy 
of  co.  Wilts. 

Elizabeth, ux. 
Henry  Reed, 
Esq.,  of  Wes¬ 
ton. 


- 1 — I 

Anne,  mar.  Au- 
thony  Drury  of 
Besthorpe. 

Elizabeth,  ux. 
Henry  Sherland 
of  London. 


— n 

Margaret,  wife 
of  Thos.  South- 
alls,  Gent., 1623 

Catherine,  ux. 
Wm.  Cuddon, 
Gent.  Will,  4 
May  1647. 


Charles  Garneys,  Esq  ,  eld.= 
son,  of  Kenton  and  Boyland 
Hall ;  died  30  Jan.  1657,aet. 
88.  Will,  P.C.C.  396  Woot- 
ton,  11  Aug.  1643,  proved 
6  May  1658.  High  Sheriff 
of  Norfolk,  1652. 


= Elizabeth,  sister  and 
coh.of  Sir  John  Went¬ 
worth  of  Somerley- 
tou,  co.  Suff.,  Kt. 
See  will  of  Dame 
Anna  Wentworth, 
P.C.C.  11  Jan.  1663. 


Ed  ward=f=Francis, 
Garneys 
of  Redis¬ 
ham,  4  th 
son. 


da. 

and  h.  of 
Henry  Elmy 
of  Rumborow, 
co.  Suffolk. 
^  Blais. 
Garneys  of  Hkdenham. 


Nicholas  Garneys, 
5th  son,  of  Little 
Redisham,  Gent. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff., 
12  June  1621, 
proved  18  Dec.  fol¬ 
lowing  Ob.  s.p. 


Clere  Garneys,  5th=j=Anne,  da.  of 
John  Jolly, 
of  Southwold. 
Her  will,  Cur. 
Ep.  N.,17Feb. 
/K1668. 


son,  of  Kenton, 
Gent.  Will, P.C.C. 
53  Wootton,  7 
Dec.  1655,  prob. 
25  May  1658. 


Garneys  of  Hedenham. 


Anne,  da.  of  William  Rugge=j=John  Garneys  of  Kenton  and=rE!izabeth,  da  of  Sir  Thomas 


of  Felmingham,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk,  1st  wife.  Garneys 
Peiigres,  College  of  Anns, 
1808. 

_ i 


Boyland  Hall,  Esq.,  sole  heir 
of  his  uncle,  Sir  John  Went¬ 
worth  ;  died  15  Dec.  1661. 
M.I.  in  Morningthorp  church. 


Thomas  Garneys 
of  Boyland  Hall, 
co.  Norfolk,  eld. 
sou;  sold  Sotner- 
leytou,  1672. 


— r 
Anne  Garneys, 
died  unmarried 
29  March  1668. 
M.I.  in  Morniug- 
tliorp  church. 


Elizabeth,  eldest 
da  and  coh.,died 
unmarried  13 
Mar  1675.  M.I. 
in  Morningthorp 
church. 


Soame,  Kt.,  Alderman  of  Lon¬ 
don.  Her  will,  P.C.C.  236 
Fagg,  7  Sept.  1715,  was  proved 
4  Aug.  1716. 


Anne, living 
1611.  Cam¬ 
den. 


Elizabeth, 
living  1611. 
Camden. 


- 1 

,  .  .  ux.  John  Cop¬ 
ping,  of  Wottou,  co. 
Norfolk ;  had  son, 
Charles  Copping 
1643. 


Susanna,  died 
uumarrried 
1685.  M.I.  in 
Morningthorp 
church. 


Mary,  da.  of  SirThos.=Wentworth  Gar-=Anne,  da.  of  Sir 
Abdy  of  Felix  Hail,  neys  of  Boyland  Charles  Gawdy  of 
Hall,  Esq.;  ob.  s.p. 

Will,  25  March 
1684,  proved  17 
Feb.  1712. 


Kelvedon, Essex.  Her 
will, P.C.C.  9  Browne, 
11  Dec.  1723,  proved 
23  Jan.  1739. 


Crow’s  Hall,  co. 
Suffolk, Kt.  M.I. in 
Morningthorp  ch. 
Died  7  Sept.  1681. 


William  Shipman=j=Mary  Garneys, = 


of  London,  mer¬ 
chant.  Will,7Sept. 
1681.  proved  2 
March  1684,  1st 
husband. 


2d  dau.  and 
coh.  Will,  6 
May  1725, 
proved  1  July 
1726. 


Thomas  Shipman 
of  London,  mer¬ 
chant,  ob,  s.p. 
Admon.  22  May 
1723.  Only  child. 


John  Dutton 
Colt,  bapt.  at 
Camberwell, 
co.Surrey;  ob. 
vita  patris. 


=Sir  Wm.  Dutton  Colt, 
Kt.,  Envoy  to  the 
Court  of  Hanover. 
Will,  4  Aug.  1689. 
Died  at  Heilbronu  in 
Germany,  1693. 


Margaret  Garneys, ^j=Sir  William  Gost- 


3d  da.  and  coh., 
died  23  Jan.  1723, 
aged  68.  M.I.  in 
Morningthorp 
church. 


lin,  Kt.,  Aider- 
man  and  Sheriff 
of  Loudon  ;  bur. 
in  Morningthorp 
church. 


- 1 

Martha 
4th  da.  and  coh. 
died  22  Aug.  1694, 
aged  35.  M.I.  in 
Morningthorp 
church. 


Garneys, =f=RobertRa  worth, 
Esq.,  of  London. 
Will,  28  June 
1705,  proved  19 
Sept.  1707. 


William  Dutton 
Colt,  an  Exon 
in  the  Guards  ; 
died  s.p.  before 
14  June  1726. 


Catherine  Gostlin, 
mar.  Sir  Henry 
Bendish  of  Steeple 
Bumpsted, co.  Essex; 
died  s  p.  1739. 


Charles=Elizabeth  Haworth,  mar.  1st, 
Gostlin,  William  Berners  of  Much 
2d  hus-  Haddon,  co.  Herts.,  Esq., 
band  ;  and  had  issue,  William  and 
ob.  s.p.  Henry  Berners. 


ElizabethColt,eld-=fWilliam  Staue,  Edmund  Dum-=pLeonara  Sophia  Colt^Denis  Bond  of  Grange, 


est  dau.  and  coh. 
of  her  mother  ; 
born  1687  ;  died 
1763. 


Esq.,  of  Forrest 
Hall,  co.  Essex 
died  20  Nov. 
1771,  aged  87. 


mer,  Esq.,  of 
Swathling,  co. 
Hants.;  married 
in  1715. 


younger  dau.  and  coh. 
of  her  mother  ;  died 
26  March,  bur.  3  April 
1766,  in  the  Temple 
church,  Loudon. 


co.  Dorset,  Esq.,  M.P. 
for  Dorchester,  1709  ; 
mar.  settlemt.,  1729  ; 
died  30  Jan.,  bur.  9 
Feb.  1740  at  Steeple. 


John  Ra worth 
Bedford  Row,  Hoi 
born  and  Boyland 
Hall.  Will  dated 
1726.  Bur.  at 
Morningthorp. 


Mary  Alice  Stane,  sole— John  West- 
dau.  and  heir  ;  ob.  s.p.  brook,  Esq., 
Will,  1  Dec.  1796;  prob.  dead  1  Dec. 
27  Feb.  1809.  1796. 


Mary  Dummer,  eldest  da.  and= 
coheir  (with  her  sister  Eliza¬ 
beth,  wife  of  ValentineKnight- 
ley,  Esq.) ;  married  1749. 


=John  Bond, Esq., 
of  CreechGrange 
co.  Dorset  ;  d. 
1784. 


i - 

Elizabeth 
child  and  heir;  born  1725; 
married  1746  ;  died  1757 
bur.  at  Amersham. 


Henry  Ra- 
worth,  died 
unmarried  in 
Aug.  1720. 


of=[=Anne,  dau.  of 
Caleb  Tren- 
field  of  Red 
Lion  Square ; 
|  mar.  settlemt. 
I  1724. 

J 


Ra  worth,  only=p  William  Drake,  LL.D., 
of  Shardeloes,  Bucks., 
M.P,  for  Amersham  ; 
bur.  there  1796. 


John  Bond,  Esq.,  of  Creech  Grange,  eldest  son  and  heir  ;  born 
1753;  mar.  Elizabeth,  dau.  and  heir  of  John  Lloyd,  Esq.,  of 
Cefncoed,  co.  Cardigan  ;  High  Sheriff  of  that  County,  and  M.P. 
for  Corfe  Castle  ;  d.  1824,  leaving  issue.  See  Burke's  Landed 

Gentry. 


William  Drake,  Esq.,  son  and  heir,  also  M.P.  for  Amersham  ;  mar.  Rachel 
Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Jeremiah  Ives  of  Norwich,  and  had  two  daus.  and 
coheirs,  Rachel,  who  mar.  1801  George  Irby,  Lord  Boston,  and  Emily, 
who  inherited  Boyland  Hall,  and  mar.  Rear-Admiral  Frederick  Paul 
Irby,  Lord  Boston's  brother.  See  Peerages. 


192 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(harness  of  iUfltcfefieU). 


John  Garneys  of  Kenton  Hall  in  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.  (see  page  190)=pElizabeth,  dau.  and  heir  of  Sir  John 


Will,  P.C.C.  138  Briggs,  20  July  14  H.  8.  Settled  his  Manor  of 
Hamonds  in  Mickfield,  in  remainder,  on  Thomas  Garneys,  his 
youngest  son. 


Sulyard  of  Wetherden,  Lord  Chief 
Justice  of  England,  by  Margaret,  his 
1st  wife,  dau.  and  heir  of  Hungate. 


Robert  Garneys  of=j=Ann,  dau.  and 
Kenton  Hall,  co.  Suf-  coh.ofThomas 
folk,  Esq.,  son  and  Bacon  of 
heir,  aged  50  and  up-  Baeonsthorpe 
wards  in  1541;  bur.  at  |  co.  Norfolk, 
Kenton,  3  Aug.  1556./jyEsq. 

Gakneys  of  Kenton. 


Thomas  Garneys  of  Great  Bealings  in  Suf-=j=Margaret,  dau.  of  Sir 
folk,  youngest  son  1522  and  one  of  his  mother’s  I  Anthony  Bedingfield 
executors,  1537  ;  dead  26  Nov.  1566,  when  |  of  Oxburgh  in  com. 
his  kinsman,  Thomas  Garneys  of  Kenton,  |  Norfolk  ;  dead  13  Jan. 
made  his  will.  Admon.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  13  1566.  She  married 

Jan.  1566.  secondly  Brice  Roke- 

wood. 


John  Garneys,  2d  son. 
Will,  28  Oct.  1526, 
proved  at  Norwich,  29 
Jan.  following.  To  be 
buried  in  St.  Peter’s 
church,  Ipswich.  S.P. 


John  Garneys  of  Great  Bealings,  Gent.,  son  and  heir  of  Thomas  Garneys,  and  one  of  the  heirs=pAnne,  dau.  of  Thomas  Sylesdon, 

v»rARmrrmfi\7P  nf  TVinvnns  f^flrnpva  nf  TT*vnfrvn  9 ({  "NTrw  1  Tnn  -n  m  9 TT.li7:  T)ipt1  4  Plsn.  !  rinsf',  minf.ial  Mich. 


presumptive  of  Thomas  Garneys  of  Kenton,  26  Nov.  1566.  Inq.  p.m.,  26  Eliz.  Died  4  Feb. 
1584,  at  Stokesby,  co.  Norff.  Lord  of  Hamonds  Manor  in  Mickfield.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  23 
Feb.  1579,  proved  14  March  1583. 


Esq.  ;  post  nuptial  settlement,  Mich. 
18  Eliz.  1576  ;  survived  her  hus¬ 
band. 


Nicholas  Garneys  of  Mickfield,  co.  Suffolk.  Gent.,  son  and  heir,  aged  5  years=p Audrey,  half-sister  of  Thomas  Dade,  Esq.,  of  Tannington  ; 


in  1584.  Will,  P.C.C.  389  Brent,  2  Nov.  1652,  proved  24  Sept.  1653  ; 
devisee,  20  Oct.  1585,  of  Richard  Garneys  of  Boyland  Hall.  Lord  of  Hamond’s 
Manor.  M.I.  in  Mickfield  church.  Ob.  2  Feb.  1653. 


dau.  of  Thomas  Dade,  Esq.,  by  Anne,  his  wife,  dau.  of 
Richard  Cornwallis,  Esq.  M.I.  in  Mickfield  church.  Sister 
and  devisee  of  Henry  Dade,  Esq.,  1651. 


TTT 


t — r 


Thomas. 

Nicholas 

Edmund 

John  Garneys,  son  and=FElizabeth,dau.and  coh. 

Elizabeth, 

Phoebe,  bapt. 

Margaret 

— 

Garneys, 

Garneys, 

heir,  of  Mickfield,  Gent., 

of  Nathaniel  Atherold, 

mar.  Jo. 

1613  ;  mar. 
31  Jan.  1638, 

Garneys. 

Frances 

named 

named 

1664.  when  he  entered 

Gent.,  of  Hasketon. 

Garnon  of 

To  be 

&  Anne, 

in  his 

in  his 

ped.  in  the  Suffolk  Visi¬ 

Her  will,  Arch.  Suff., 

Bacton, 

William  Dowe 

provided 

father’s 

father’s 

tation.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 

14  Oct.  1682,  was 

Gent.,  4 

of  Badley, 

for  for 

will ; 

will ; 

Norw.,  1  May  1672, 

proved  21  April  1683. 

Aug.  1640. 

Gent. 

life, 1652. 

bapt. 

bapt. 

proved  1675.  M.I.  in 

M.  I.  in  Mickfield 

— 

1616. 

1617. 

Mickfield  church. 

church. 

Awdrey. 

A  dau.  of  Nich¬ 
olas  Garneys 
of  Mickfield, 
Esq.,  mar.  .  .  . 
Thorne  of  Yox- 
ford  (see  p.240) 
Candler,  Tan¬ 
ner  MS.  ISO,  28. 


- i - — - 1 - 

John  Garneys,  eldest=pGrace  Nicholas  Garneys,  Na,thanielGarneys,=pJane,  da.  of  the  Rev.  MarthaGarneys,  Elizabeth  Garneys,  named 


son,  of  Debenham, 
co.  Suffolk,  Gent.  ; 
died  2  Sept.  1706, 
aged  56.  M.I.  at 
Mickfield.  Will,  1706. /f,1716. 


Bird,  linen  draper,  of  3d  son, of  Mickfield, 
bur.  at  Ipswich.  Will,  14  Gent.  Made  will  at 
Mick-  July  1682,  proved  Kenton,  8  Feb. 
field,  Arch.  Suff.,  21  Ap.  1691,  proved  Arch. 
1683.  Ob.  s.p.  Suff.,13Nov.l693. 


John  Jeffery,  M.A.,  eldest  dau.,  as  executrix  in  her  mother’s 
Vicar  of  Kenton;  1672  ;  devisee  of  will,  1682,  and  her  brother’s, 
to  whom  she  placed  Nicholas  Gar-  1691  ;  subsequently  mar. 
monument  inKenton  neys  her  brother  Thos.  Clodd,  Senr.,  of 
church.  1682.  Kenton,  Gent. 


Wentworth  John  Garneys  of  Kenton,  Gent.  ,=f=Elizabeth,  sister  of  Thoma 


only  surviving  son  ;  bapt.  1684.  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.  27  July  1728,  proved  12  Aug. 
following.  Lands  in  Bedingfield,  Debenham 
and  Winston.  M.I.  in  Kenton  church. 


Eames.  She  remar.  John 
Wareyn,Gent.,  by  whom  she 
had  Catharine,  wife  of  John 
Darby  of  Diss, Surgeon, 1765. 


Charles 
Garneys, 
bapt.  at 
Kenton, 
1687;  ob. 

s.p. 


Jane  Garneys,  bapt.  at  Ken¬ 
ton,  1692;  mar.  .  .  .  Cheval- 
lier  and  had  son,  Temple 
Chevallier  of  Aspall,  co. 
Suff.,  Clerk,  living  1765. 


r 

Jane 
Clodd, 
coh.  to 
her 

mother, 

1720. 


Ann  Clodd,  coh. 
to  her  mother. 
1720.  Court  Book 
of  Thorpe  Hall 
Manor  in  Haske- 
ton. 


Charles  Garneys  of  Kenton, Gent., 
eldest  son  ;  under  age  1728  ;  ob. 
s.p.  9  June  1778  ;  buried  in  Ken¬ 
ton  chancel.  M.I.  WiIl,Arch.Suff., 
5  Dec.  1765,  proved  6  July  1778. 


ThomasGarueys  of  Kenton, =j=Sarah  Sheldrake  John  Garneys  of  Yoxford,  Gent.,  3d-r-Elizabeth 


Gent.,  2d  son  ;  heir  to 
his  brother ;  ob.  5  Feb. 
1792,  aged  66.  M.I.  in 
Kenton  chancel. 


of  Kenton  ;  mar. 
there  1762;  ob. 
4  July  1788  ;  bur. 
in  Kenton  chancel. 


son.  Of  Westleton,  co.  Suff.,  Surgeon, 
2  Feb.  1797,  when  he  made  will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  proved  26  April,  1798.  M.I.  in 
Kenton  chancel.  Ob.  16  Mar.  1798, aet.  70. 


Draper,  died 
16  April  1805; 
bur.inKenton 
chancel.  M.I. 


Thomas  Garneys,  born  1763  ;  of  Kenton, =j=Elizabeth 


1797.  Took  the  Hedenliam  estates  on  the 
death  of  Charles  Garneys,  his  kinsman,  in 
1808,  but  gave  them  up  to  the  Irbys. 


Darby. 


Sarah,  married  .  .  .  Wales 
of  Downham  Market,  Nor¬ 
folk,  Surgeon,  where  she 
died  in  April  1820,  aged  54, 


Elizabeth,  mar.  John 
Woodcock  of  Hales- 
worth,  co.  Suffolk, 
Merchant,  1797. 


Charlotte,  mar.  Rev. 
William  Kett  of 
Melton,  co.  Suffolk, 
Clerk,  1797. 


Charles  Garneys,  Esq.,  Thomas  William 

of  Bungay,  1845.  Garneys.  Garneys. 


Jane,  youngest  dau.;  mar.  1830  George  Freeman, 
younger  son  of  John  Freeman,  Esq.,  of  Aspall. 


GARNEYS  OF  HEDENHAM. 


193 


6antegs  of  i)eOenl)am. 


John  Garneys  of  Spexhall,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.  (See=j=Anne,  da.  of  Edmund  Rokewood  of  Euston,  co.  Suf- 


page  191).  Will,  P.C.C.  12  Tashe,  29  July  1549, 
proved  7  June  1553. 


folk.  Named  in  the  will  of  Dame  Alice  Burgh,  her 
mother,  24  March  1558,  but  then  dead. 


Nicholas  Garneys  of  Redisham,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  second  son  ;  succeeded  to  Kenton1 
on  the  death  of  Thomas  Garneys,  his  brother,  in  1567,  and  to  Boyland  at  the 
decease  of  Richard  Garneys  in  1585  ;  built  Redisham  Hall.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
30  Jan.  1623,  proved,  with  codicil,  2  Sept  1628.  Desires  to  be  buried  in  Rings- 

field  chancel. 


=Anne,  dau.  of  Thomas  Clere  of  Stokesby,  co.  Norfolk, 
Esq.  Remarkable  monument  on  the  outside  of  Little 
Redisham  church,  with  brass,  to  Nicholas  Garneys  and 
Anne  Clere,  his  wife,  with  their  six  sons  and  five 
daughters,  erected  apparently  in  his  lifetime. 


Edward  Garneys,  4th  son,=fFrances,  dau.  of  Henry 


bapt.atKenton,25  Mayl576; 
executor  and  chief  heir  to 
his  brother, NicholasGarneys 
1621  ;  Lord  of  the  Manor 
of  Redisham,  1629. 


Elizabeth  Garneys,  de¬ 
visee,  1654,  of  her  uncle, 
Barnahy  Bateman,  her 
mother’s  half-brother. 
See  Elmy. 


Elmy  of  Rumburgh,  co. 
Suffolk  ;  half-sister  to 
Barnaby  Bateman,  Gent., 
who  made  will,  P.C.C. 
495  Alehin,  1654. 


Nicholas  Garneys,  5th  son, 
of  Little  Redisliam,  Gent.  ; 
bapt.  at  Kenton,  21  Dec. 
1579.  Will,  Arch.  Snff.,  12 
July  1621,  proved  18  Dec. 
following.  Ob.  s.p. 


Clere  Garneys,  6th  son,  of=f  Anne,  dau.  of  John  Jolly 


Kenton,  eo.  Suffolk,  Gent. ; 
bapt.  there  25  Mar.  1583. 
Will,  P.C.C.  354  Wootton, 
7  Dec.  1355,  proved  25 
May  1658. 


Mary,  devisee,  1654,  of  her  uncle 
Bateman.  She  mar.  John  King  of 
Norwich,  Gent.,  8  April,  and  died 
31  May  1653.  M.I.  in  St.  Peter’s, 
Maucroft,  Norwich. 


Clere  Garneys,  2d  sou,  named,  1668, 
in  his  mother’s  will  :  bapt.  at  Ken¬ 
ton,  4  May  1634  ;  Lord  of  the  Manor 
of  Redisliam,  1677,  when  he  held 
his  first  court. 


of  Southwold.  Her  will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  17  Feb. 

1668,  was  proved  15  June 

1669.  She  was  bur.  at 
Kenton,  29  May  1669. 


Elizabeth,  Anne,  bap.  at 
bap.at  Ken-  Kenton,  15 
ton,  24  Jan.  Dec.  1631  ; 
1627  ;  bur.  bur.  there  26 
there,  1649.  Junel649,s.p. 


Nicholas  Garneys  of- 
Redisham,Gent.  Will 
Arch.  Suff.,  3  Feb. 
1674,  proved  27  July 
1676.  To  be  buried 
in  Ringsfield  church. 
Lord  of  ReHisham 
Manor,  1653.  Ob.  s.p. 


=Mary,  da.  and  coh.  of 
Thomas  Freston  of 
Mendham.  Held  her 
first  court  at  Redis¬ 
ham,  31  May  1677. 
Sold  estates  by  Fine, 
Mich.  34  Car.  II., 
1683,toSirJohuDuke. 


- 1 

Edward= 
Garneys  of 
Homers- 
field,  co. 
Suffolk, 
Gent.  ;  was 
dead  3  Feb. 
1674. 


'Frances,  da  and  coh. 
of  Thomas  Freston  of 
Mendham, co.Suffolk, 
Gent ,  whose  will, 
P.C.C.  22  Pile,  was 
proved  11  Feb.  163-J. 
Sister  to  Nicholas 
Garneys’  wife. 


CharlesGarneys,=j=Mary,  sister  and  heir 


eldest  son,  of 
Kenton,  Gent.  ; 
ob.  25  June 
1678  ;  bur.  in 
Morningthorp 
church.  M.I. 


to  Wm.  Richmond  of 
Hedenham,  Norfolk. 
John  R  ichmond, Esq. , 
by  will,  Arch.  North, 
1686,  devised  his 
manors  to  Clere  Gar¬ 
neys,  her  son. 


- 1 

John  Garneys  of 
Redlmgfield,Gent., 
youngestson.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
proved  21  May 
1698.  Ob.  s.p. 
M.I.  in  Bedling- 
field  church. 


Elizabeth  Garneys.  coheir 
to  her  uncle, NicholasGar¬ 
neys;  bapt.atHomersfield, 
1659  ;  mar.  George  Prety- 
man  of  Bacton,  Gent.;  d. 
25  Oct.  1689,  aged  30. 
M.I.in  Bactonchurcli  with 
Arms  of  Pretyman  and 
Garueys.  =p 


Nicholas  Gar¬ 
neys, only  son, 
beyond  the 
seas  in  1674, 
when  his 
uncleNicholas 
Garneys, made 
his  will. 


Frances  Garneys, coheir 
to  her  uncle,  Nicholas 
Garneys,  1676.  Widow 
of  Thos.  Bradlaugh  alias 
Jacob  of  Laxfield,Gent., 
1673.  Joined  her  sister 
and  her  aunt  Mary  in 
sale  of  Redisham. 
Living  at  Beccles,  1700. 


Charles  Garneys, 
bapt.  1658  ;  of 
M  orningthorp,  co. 
Norfolk  ;  of  Ken¬ 
ton,  Gent.,  1686  ; 
devisee  of  his 
uncle,  John  Rich¬ 
mond, 1686;  living 
22June,9\Ym.lII. 


- ! — - 

Clere  Garneys,  2d: 
son :  Lord  of 
Park’s  Manor  in 
Hedenham  ; 
nephew  &  devisee 
of  John  Rich¬ 
mond, Esq.,  1686, 
and  his  sole 
executor,  1694. 


-Margaret,  dau. 
of  John  Watts 
of  Burnliam 
Market ;  devisee 
1686  of  John 
Richmond,  and 
then  not  yet 
married.  She 
died  1 7  22. 


Mary  Ga 
neys,  die 
at  Kenton 
10  June 
1685;  bur. 
at  Thorp 
in  Norfolk, 
12  June  fol¬ 
lowing. 


George  Pretyman,  Gent., son  and 
heir;  joined  his  father,  1706,  in 
the  sale  of  his  late  mother’s 
moietv  of  Redisham  Manor  to 
Sir  Edward  Duke. 


Catherine  Gar-=John  Bedingfield,  Rector 
neys,  sister  and  of  Hedenham  ;  Lord 
heir  to  Rich-  of  Park’s  Manor  jure 
mond  Qarneys.  uxoris  ;  died  s.p.  1729. 
Blomefield.  Blomefield. 


Richmond  Garneys  of:f-Anne,  dau.  of  Wil- 


Hedenliam,  Esq.,  son 
and  heir ;  Lord  of 
Park’s  Manor,  &c. ;  died 
1762. 


liarn Churchman  of 
Illington,  co-  Nor¬ 
folk,  Esq.  Blome¬ 
field. 


- 1 

Mary 

Garners. 


Charles  Garneys,  Esq. ,  of  Hedenham,  son  and  heir; 
died  s.p.  in  June  1808,  seised  of  Paik’s  Manor,  &c. 
Estates  to  Thomas  Garneys  of  Kenton  (see  page 
192)  who  passed  them  to  the  Irbys  (see  page  191). 


Clere  Garneys,  second  son,  of  London,  mer¬ 
chant.  Will,  P.C  C.  447Legard,  5  Mar.  1763, 
proved  16  Dec.  1767.  Desires  to  be  buried 
at  Hedenham  in  Norfolk.  Ob.  s.p. 


- 1  _ 

Catherine  Garneys, 
sister  and  devisee 
of  Clere  Garueys, 
1763  ;  died  s.p. 


Richard  Garneys  (see  page  190)  built  Boyland  Hall  in  Morningthorpe,  Norfolk,  where  so  many  of  the  family  were  buried,  in  1571. 
Over  the  portal  he  placed  the  full  coat  of  Garneys,  with  the  Toppesfield  and  eight  other  quarterings,  supported  by  two  mermaids,  and 
in  the  windows  was  his  motto,  “ffiolJbES  ©race  ©afaerne  ©ariUJJS.”  Nicholas  Garneys,  his  kinsman  and  heir,  erected  Redisliam  Hall, 
also  during  the  reign  of  Queen  Elizabeth,  a  fine  old  mansion,  displaying  the  Garneys  shield,  quarterly  of  twelve  (see  page  189).  The 
Hedenham  monuments  have  quarterly  of  sixteen,  in  which  the  additions  are: — 11,  Bacon  of  Redgrave,  Gules,  on  a  chief,  Argent,  two 
mullets  of  the  first  ;  14,  Richmond  of  Hedenham,  Ermine,  on  a  chief,  Sable,  a  griffin  passant  Or;  and  15,  Paly  of  seven.  Or  and 

Sable,  on  a  chief.  Gules,  three  martlets  ;  the  sixteenth  quartering,  like  the  first,  being  Garneys,  Argent,  a  chevron  engrailed,  Azure, 
between  three  escallops,  Sable.  See  Blomefield’s  Norfolk,  v,  292. 

2  B 


194 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


offltU  of  Jttcbolas  (Sam 1625. 

Nicholas  Garneys  of  Little  Redsham,  co.  Suffolk,  Esqr,  30th  January  1623.  P»y  his  will  of 
this  date  orders  his  body  to  be  buried  near  the  chancel  wall  of  the  church  of  Ringesfield,  where 
a  great  marble  stone  is  to  be  laid  upon  his  grave,  and  his  name  and  his  wife’s  and  the  names 
of  air  his  children,  as  well  dead  and  living,  to  be  engraven  in  brass  and  fixed  upon  the  same. 
Mentions  that  he  had  had  eleven  children  by  his  wife  Ann,  whereof  there  were  then  living  three 
sons  and  five  daughters,  viz.  : — Charles,  Edward  and  Cleere,  Margarie,  Ann,  Margarett,  Kateren  and 
Elizabeth.  Gives  to  his  wife,  for  her  life,  the  Manor  of  Suddon  in  Kenton  (heretofore  assigned 
to  her  for  her  jointure),  also  two  hundred  pounds,  two  bed  stedds,  one  of  wallnut  tree  turned 
and  the  other  with  square  postes,  with  the  best  featherbedde,  boulsters,  pillowes,  blanketts  and 
coverletts  and  all  other  furniture  to  them  belonging,  two  pieces  of  the  best  of  his  silver  plate, 
the  bason  and  ewer  only  excepted,  one  garnishe  of  pewter,  Ac.,  Ac.  Upon  condition  that  she 
assure  and  convey  unto  his  son  Edward  Garneys,  and  after  him  to  his  son  Cleere  Garneys,  all 
such  right,  title  and  demand  as  she  shall  or  hereafter  may  have  in  the  Manors  of  Reddesham, 
and  Barsham  in  Suffolk,  and  all  other  his  lands,  &c.,  in  Reddesham  aforesaid,  Great  Reddesham, 
Ringesfield  and  Barsham,  or  near  thereunto,  to  such  use,  (fee.,  as  is  hereafter  expressed.  To  Charles 
Garneys,  his  son,  and  his  lieires  male,  the  Manors  of  Kenton,  Boyland  and  Fretton,  <fec.,  to  uses 
limited  in  certain  conveyances  thereof  made.  To  said  Charles  a  gold  ring  of  the  weight  of  half 
an  ounce  in  gold,  with  a  seale  therupon  engraven  of  his  arms,  ifec.  To  Edward  Garneys,  his 
son,  the  said  Manor  of  Redesham  and  Barsham,  with  all  other  the  lands,  Ac.,  in  Little  Redesham, 
Great  Redesham,  Ringesfield  and  Barsham,  contained  in  certain  Indentures  thereof  named  between 
him  and  Henry  Elmy  of  Rumburgh,  to  him  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body ;  remainder  to  Cleere 
Garneys,  testator’s  son,  and  the  heirs  male  of  his  body  ;  remainder  to  testator’s  own  right  heirs 
as  in  said  conveyances  are  limited.  To  Elizabeth  Garneys,  his  grandchild,  daughter  of  John  Garneys, 
his  late  son,  forty  pounds  on  attaining  her  age  of  twenty  one  years.  To  Margery,  his  daughter, 
now  wife  of  Thomas  Smith,  Esqr,  one  juell  ring  of  the  value  of  forty  shillings.  To  Ann,  his 
daughter,  now  wife  of  Richard  Bellamy,  Gent.,  one  juell  ring  or  tablett,  value  40s.  To 
Margarett,  his  daughter,  now  wife  of  Thomas  Southall,  Gent.,  the  same.  To  Katherine,  his  daughter, 
now  wife  of  'William  Cuddon,  Gent.,  the  same.  To  Elizabeth,  his  daughter,  now  wife  of  Henry 
Rede,  Esqr  the  same.  Edward  Garneys,  his  son,  to  be  executor.  Five  pounds  to  be  distributed 
amongst  the  poor  people  who  shall  come  to  his  burial. 

By  a  Codicill,  dated  6  April  1628,  he  recites  the  death  of  Ann,  his  wife,  and  Elizabeth 
Garneys,  daughter  of  John  Garneys,  his  son.  The  legacies  to  them  to  be  void. 

Proved  22  Sept.  1628,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 

In  Ringsfield  churchyard,  in  a  lofty  niche  of  brick  on  the  south  wall  of  the  chancel,  is 
a  brass  plate  with  the  figures  of  Nicholas  Garneys  and  Anne,  his  wife,  their  eleven  children  kneeling 
behind  them.  These  figures  are  charged  with  their  respective  arms,  her’s  being  those  of  Clere  of 
Ormsby,  Argent,  on  a  fess  Azure,  three  eagles  displayed  Or.  The  shields,  singly  and  impaled,  are 
repeated  above,  with  the  mermaid  crest,  and  a  motto,  “  Flectar  non  frangar.”  There  are  suitable 
texts  of  scripture.  Below  is  the  inscription,  the  dates  being  left  blank — “  Here  vnder  lyeth  buried 
the  corpes  of  Nicholas  Garneys  Esquire  A  Anne  his  wife,  davghter  of  Charles  Cleere  of  Stoksbie 
Esqur,  which  Nicholas  builded  Redsham  Hall  and  deceased  the  daye  of  An0.” 


€lnt|>  of  Rumbiugl), 


ffitill  of  Jltarg  ®lnttr,  1578. 

The  thirteenth  daye  of  September,  1578.  Mary  Eimye  of  Sb  Margarett’s,  Ilketshall,  in 
the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  widow.  Vnto  Stephen  Eimye  my  sonne  and  Philipp  his  wife ;  Richarde 
Eimye  my  sonne  and  his  wife ;  William  Eimye  my  sonne  ;  Thomas  Eimye  my  sonne ;  Henry 
Eimye  my  sonne  and  his  wife ;  Robert  Eimye  my  sonne.  Vnto  Agnes  Swatman  my  daughter ; 
Elizabeth  the  wife  of  William  Newson,  my  daughter  To  Thomas  Eimye  my  grandchild,  Robert 
Eimye,  William  Eimye,  Fraunces  Eimye,  Nicholas  Eimye,  Henry  Eimye  and  George  Eimye  my 
grandchildren,  at  their  ages  of  two  and  twentie  yeares.  To  Ann,  Mary,  Philip  and  Elizabeth 
Eimye  my  granddaughters  at  their  severall  ages  of  twentie  yeares  or  dayes  of  marriage.  To  the 
child  the  wife  of  Stephen  Eimye  my  sonne  is  withall.  Vnto  William,  Richard,  Samuell  and 
Henry  Eimye  my  grandchildren,  sonne  of  Richard  Eimye  my  sonne.  Vnto  Elizabeth  and  Mary 
Eimye,  daughters  of  the  said  Richard  my  sonne.  Vnto  Henry,  Thomas  and  Mary,  children  of 
Thomas  Eimye  my  sonne.  To  Andrew  Eimye  sonne  of  Robert  Eimye  my  sonne.  The  legacies 
to  be  paid  at  their  respective  ages  of  two  and  twentie  yeares.  To  Symond  Smith  my  grand¬ 
child  when  twenty-two,  and  Margaret  Smith  my  grandchild  his  sister.  Vnto  Mary  and  Elizabeth 
Shryve  my  grandchildren.  To  William  and  Nicholas  Hellowes  my  grandchildren.  To  George 
and  Randall  Smyth  my  grandchildren.  To  Thomas,  Mary  and  Rose  Swatman  my  grandchildren. 
And  to  Mary  and  Anne  Newson  my  grandchildren.  Probatum  duodecimo  die  Martij,  1578,  jura- 
mentis  Henrici  Eimye  et  Roberts  Eimye  executoribus. 

P.C.C.  13  Bakon. 


SStill  nf  Soljit  ®aslmrglj,  1605- 

John  Tasburghe  of  Flixton  in  Southelmham,  co.  Suffolke  Esqr.  29th  Nov.  in  the  first  yeare 
of  King  James.  My  brother  John  Trace  Esqr.  My  daughter  Ashfield,  wife  of  Sr  Robert  Ashfield 
Kn*.  My  daughter  Ellmye.  My  two  grandchildren  John  Ashefeilde  and  John  Camocke.  My 
daughter  Ellmy’s  children.  My  sonne  Sr  John  Tasborough  Kn‘  to  be  executor.  Probatum  tercio- 
decimo  die  Julij  1607,  P.C.C.  66  Hudleston. 

2  B2 


196 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


<8lmg  of  3&umburgf). 


IVittm.  Elmy  of  Ru.rnbnrou.gh  in  Com.  Stiff.,  Hurl.  MS.  1560, = 
of  St.  Michael’s  iu  South  Elmham.  Will,  P.C.C.  12  Carew, 
6  July  1570,  proved  14  May  1576.  To  be  buried  by  his 
father  and  mother  in  St.  Michael’s  churchyard.  Lands  in 
South  Elmham,  Rumburgh,  and  St.  Margaret’s,  Uketshall. 


■Mary,  d.  of  Reignald  Rabbett  of  Hallworthin  Suj).  Devisee  of  her 
mother,  then  Margaret  Herde  of  Halesworth,  widow,  26  Dee. 
1550.  She  made  will  as  Mary  Elmy  of  St.  Margaret,  Ilketshall, 
widow,  P.C.C.  13  Bakon  13  Sept.  1578;  probt.  12  March  following. 
To  be  buried  by  her  husband  in  St.  Michael’s  churchyard. 


I - 

William  Elmy, 3d  son,  of  All=Margar- 
Saints  iu  South  Elmham.  et,  sister 
Will,  P.C.C.  72  Capell,  6  of  Olive 
April  1612,  proved  3  July  Smyth, 
1613.  Lands  in  Bungay  s.p. 
and  South  Elmham  to 
George  Elmy,  his  nephew. 


- 1 - 

Robert  El¬ 
my,  living 
1578  ;  had 
then  a  son, 
Andrew 
Elmy. 


— i - 

Henry  Elmy,  liv¬ 
ing  1612,  when  he 
had  issue,  John, 
E  ( 1  ward ,  an  d  B  rid  - 
get.  John  was 
then  married  and 
had  issue. 


- , - 

Agnes,  wife  of 
.  .  .  Swatman, 
1578,  when  she 
had  issue,  Tho¬ 
mas,  Mary,  and 
Rose  Swatman. 


Elizabeth,  wife 
of  William 
Newson,  1578, 
when  she  had 
issue  Mary  and 
Anne  Newson. 


- 1 

Margaret,  wife  of  Nicholas  Sinyth  of 
St.  Nicholas  in  South  Elmham.  His 
will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  is  dated  30  Jan. 
1567.  Her  children,  Symon  and 
Margaret  Smyth,  are  mentioned  in 
her  mother’s  will. 


Stephen  El-=pPhillip, 


my,  eldest 
son,  living 
1578. 


his  wife, 

living 

1578. 


— i - 

A  dau.  married 
. . .  Shrive,  and  had 
issue,  1 578,  Mary 
and  Elizabeth. 


Thom.  Elmy  of  Rumborough, =rJoane,d.  of  Ste  ven  Shawt- 


4th  son.  Will  P.C.C.  32 
Cope,  26  July  1614.  He 
was  living  there  in  1616. 


man  of  ...  in  com.  Suff. 
Buried  at  Rumborough 
1618,  aged  73. 


A  dau.  married  .  .  .  Richard  Elmy=j=.  .  . 
Hellowes,  and  had  of  Rumborough, 
issue,  1578,  Will-  2d  son,  living 
iam  and  Nicholas.  1578. 


I - - ! — | - 

George  Elmy  of  All  William, 

Saints  in  South  Elm-  1612. 

ham  heir  to  his  uncle,  — 

William  Elmy,  1613.  Nicholas, 

1612. 


— m - 1  i 

Francis,  Robert,  living 

1612.  1612. 

Stephen,  Philip  and  Mary, 

1612.  daughters,  1612. 


William,  living  Samuel,  living 

1578.  1578. 


Elizabeth,  living 
1578. 


Richard,  living 
1578. 


Henry,  living 
1578. 


Mary,  living 
1578. 


Mary  ux ■  Richard  Martha,  bapt.atRum- 
Browne  of  Suff. ,  Ao.  borough  1586 ;  married 
1612  ;  married  at  there,  1611,  to  William 
Rumborough,  1596.  Harvey. 


Philip,  bapt.  at  Rum¬ 
borough  1587;  married 
there,  1 6 1 5,  to  William 
Burward. 


- ( - 

Elizebeth,  bapt.  at  Rumborough 
1589  ;  married  there,  1612,  to 
Thomas  Scarlett. 


- 1 

Thomas  Elmy,  bapt.  at 
Rumborough.  1577;  bur¬ 
ied  there,  1585. 


1.  Henry  Elmye of=f=ffrances,  d.  of  John  Tasborough=yThomfis  Bateman  of 


Netlested  in  Stiff., 
bapt.  at  Rumbor¬ 
ough  1574  ;m.  at 
Homersfieldl595. 


of  fflixton  in  Suff. ,  relic  Thom. 
Bateman  of  flixon.  John  Tas- 
burgh’s  Will,  P.C.C.  66  Hudles- 
ton,  was  proved  13  July  1607- 


Flixton,  gent.,  1st 
husbd.  Will,  P.C.C. 
33Scott.30Dec.1589, 
probt.  24  May  1595. 


2.  John  Elmye,  3.  Jeromy  Elmy,=pD  ia  na  ,=Lionel  Bateman, 
bapt.  1579; exor.  bapt.  at  Rum-  dau.  and  gent,  brother  to 
to  his  brother,  borough,  1581;  heir  of  Baruaby  Bateman, 
Jeremy  Elmy’s  mar.  there  1610,  William  2d  husbd.  1631. 
will  1631.  1st  husband.  Hellwes.  Elmy  c.  Bateman, 

Chas.  I.,  B.  &  A. 


Frances, =f=Edward  Garneys 


lb  yere  old 
1612,  sole 
dau.  and 
heir. 


of  Redisham,  co. 
Suff.,  gent.,  Lord 
of  the  Manor  of 
Redisham. 


Barnaby  Bateman,  gent.,  younger 
son.  Will,  P.C.C.  499  Alehin  19 
Dec.  1653 ;  names  his  sister 
Garneys’  children,  prob.  11  June 
1654. 


rr 


Thomas  Elmy,  bapt.  at 
Rumborough,  1612. 

Joan,  bapt.  at  Rum¬ 
borough,  1614. 


TT 


Henry,  bapt.  at  Rum¬ 
borough,  1616. 

William,  bapt.  at  Rum¬ 
borough,  1617. 


- n 

John,  bapt.  at  Rum¬ 
borough,  1619. 

Mary,  bapt.  at  Rum¬ 
borough,  1620. 


A 

Garnets  of  Hedenham. 


The  Elmy  pedigree  from  Hart.  MS.  1560,  is  printed  in  italics.  Raven’s  narrative  pedigree,  written  when  he  visited  Suffolk 
in  1612,  will  be  found  at  the  foot  of  the  next  page. 

The  Arms  of  Elmy  of  Rumborough,  as  represented  in  Harl.  MS.  1560,  are  gyronny  of  eight  Or  and  Sable ;  on  a  chief 
of  the  first  two  elm  leaves  Vert.  Raven's  note  book,  Harl.  MS.  1820,  has  the  same  coat  impaling  Tasburgh. 

The  Crest,  according  to  the  Barrett  MSS.,  so  frequently  quoted  by  Davy,  is  on  a  chapeau  a  tower  proper.  These  MSS. 

place  three  elm  leaves  on  the  chief. 


ELMY  OF  RUMBURGH. 


197 


€lmj)  jPebtgree  from  tfie  Cantiler  Mi 


Richard  Elmye.^f2  Margaret,  daughter  of 
Tanner  MS.,  Lib.  ~ 

Bodleian,  180,128. 


.  Lawrence ,  a  famous  preacher. 
Tanner  MS.  180,  128.  A  reverend  grave  minister  who  had 
been  a  preacher  to  those  who  fleeing  for  religion  in  Q.  Marie’s 
dayes  met  together  in  woods  and  secret  places  as  they  could.  He 
i  was  a  gentleman  of  a  great  estate  and  exceeding  in  liberality  to 
the  poore.  In  the  time  of  Q.  Elisabeth  he  preached  at  Freeing- 
field.  He  owned  St.  James’  Park  in  South.  Elmham.  See 
Lawrence  pedigree,  Tanner  MS.,  180,  48. 


i - 

Richard = 
Elmye. 


Other  daughters  married  to 
Robert,  Ireland,  die. 


.  .  .  married  to  ..  .  Gippes  or  Gibb,  farmer  of  Friends 
hall  in  Norff.  and  had  issue  John,  Henry,  Thomas, 
Anne  married  to  John  Fishe  (who  went  with  his 
family  into  New  England ),  Mary  and  Sarah. 


Thomas  Elmye.  He  mar-=^Christian 


ried  Christian  Coppyn. 


William. 


Richard. 


Anne. 


Coppyn. 


James.  Thomas. 


- ! - 1 - 1 - 1 - 

Christian,  mar •  Margaret, married  Mary  married  Elizabeth,  married 
ried  to  ..  Hales,  to  .  .  .  Carman.  to  .  .  .  Fox.  to  Willm.  Chalker. 


i - 

William  Elmye- 
of  St.  John’s  in 
Palgrave. 


I — I — I — TTT 

Richard,  Eliza¬ 
beth,  William, 
Thomas,  all  s.p. 
Rebeckah  also 
andMattheu\s.p. 


-Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Matthew  Alliston—Dionyse  Whinnery,  2d  husband,  whose  1st  wife  was  Anne — Anne, daugh-=p Henry 


of  Castle  Hinningham  in  Essex,  who 
made  will,  P.C.C.  45  Clarke,  29  Sept. 
1621,  naming  Elizabeth  Elmie,  his 
daughter.  Castle  Hedenham. 


daughter  of  Samuel  James,  the  relict  of  Henry  Cowper. 
Dionetius  Whinery  of  Earl  Stouham,  Gent.,  made  will, 
Arch,  Sufi.,  21  March  1669,  proved  27  June  1674.  Seems 
to  have  died  s.p. 


ter  of  Samuel  j  Cowper, 
James,  1st  1  her  first 
wife.  |  hus- 

I  band. 

A 


Elizabeth,  married  to  John  Browne 
who  was  Alderman  of  Bury,  1658. 
His  first  wife  was  Mary,  dau.  of 
Samuel  Moody,  Alderman  of  Bury, 
and  Mary  Boldero,  his  wife.  See 
Boldero. 


Thomas  Elmye,  Richard  Elmye  of  Oakley,  co.  Suffolk, =Susan,  named  in 
brother  and  de-  yeoman  ;  in  his  will,  P.C.C.  22  Pile,  her  husband’s  will 
visee  of  John  24  Nov.  1635,  names  “  Dionies  Whynerie,  and  apparently 

Elmye,  1640.  my  father  in  law.”  He  had  lands  in  sans  issue. 

Palgrave,  &c. 


John  Elmye  of  Palgrave,  co.  Suff.,  Gent.  Will,  Cur.=pA?ine. 
Ep.  Norw.,  28  Dec.  1640,  proved  10  Feb.  following. 

Names  his  mother  Whinery,  and  his  brother  in  law,  John 

Browne. 


Martha,  married  to  S.- 
Henry  Cowper,  Rector  of 
Earles  Stonham. 


i — 


Elisabeth,  only  child, 
not  yet  twelve  years 
old  in  1640. 


Sam:  Henry  Cowper  of  Norwich,  clerk  ;  made  will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  1675  ;  names  his  cousin  William  Elmy. 
His  wife,  a  daughter  of  Joseph  Crane  of  Stowmarket, 
Gent.,  was  then  dead. 


- 1 — i - 

Martha  and 
Elizabeth. 


Joseph  Elmye  of  Norwich,1 
Merchant.  Will,  P.C.C. 
134  Twisse,  1646.  Lands 
in  Palgrave. 


A  daughter  married  John 
Carter  of  Stowmarket,  who 
made  will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
8  Nov.  1698. 


William. 


Martha.  Elizabeth. 


Amie,  wife  of  Benjamin  Cutlove  of  Stowmarket,  Dyonyse. 
1675  ;  had  issue,  1698. 


Thomas  Elmy  of  Rumborough  in  Suff:  sonne  of  WUl’m  dk  of  Mary  his  wyfe  ye  d:  of  Raygnold  Rabet  mar.  Joann  ye  d:  of 
Steuen  Shawtman  of  Suff:  &  had  issue  Hcnrey  sonne  tfc  h:  John  2d,  Jeremy  3,  Mary  mar:  to  Richard  Browne  of  Suf:  Pihillip, 
Martha  <£•  Elizabeth  vnmaryed. 

Henry  Elmy  of  Mettfelde  in  Suff:  Gent.,  sonne  &  h:  of  Thomas,  mar:  Fraunces  d:  of  John  Tasborough  of  Flixston  in  Suff: 
Esqr  Relicta  Thomas  Bateman  of  Flixton  in  Suff:  Gent:  hathe  issue  Fraunces  age  Ilf. 

*  Harl.  MS.  1820.  fo.  72b. 


<@«gg  of  dealings  JDarta. 


Will  of  Jltkfjad  ®ng0t  1623. 

The  fowerteenth  day  of  May  1623.  Michaell  Griggs  of  London,  gentleman.  I  will  that  my 
eldest  sonne  Michaell  Grigg  shall  have  all  my  lands  and  tenements  in  Dunstable,  Houghton  Regis, 
Kensworth  and  Codington  in  the  Countyes  of  Bedf.  and  Hertford.  To  Rechawrd  my  deare  and 
welbeloved  wife  my  messuages  in  Mauldon  in  the  said  countye  of  Bedford  for  terme  of  her  life : 
the  remainder  to  my  eldest  sonn  Michaell  Grigges  for  terme  of  his  life :  the  remainder  to  his 
eldest  sonne  Michaell  Grigges  :  and  for  want  of  issue  the  remainder  to  my  second  sonne  Robert 
Griggs :  and  for  default  of  issue  of  the  body  of  the  said  Robert  remainder  to  my  grandchild  Michaell 
Miller,  sonne  of  Sr  John  Miller,  Knight,  and  of  my  daughter  Dame  Marie  his  wife.  I  am  possessed 
of  the  rents  of  the  Manner  of  Becklings  in  the  parishes  of  Snape,  Sternefield  and  Freston,  in  the 
countye  of  Suffolk  under  a  lease  which  I  bought  in  the  name  of  my  second  sonne  Robert,  and 
likewise  of  divers  other  lands  in  Snape,  &c.,  free  and  copie.  My  said  sonne  Robert  shall  have 
said  lease  and  inheritance  immediately  after  the  decease  of  my  wife.  Messuage  in  Northampton 
to  my  wife  for  life,  the  remainder  to  my  sonne  Michaell  for  life,  remainder  to  Abraham  Griggs 

second  sonne  of  my  said  sonne  Michaell.  My  parte  of  that  capitall  messuage  called  the  Hargrowe 

in  the  parish  of  Church  Bicknell  in  the  countye  of  Warwicke,  and  all  my  other  lands  in  said 

countie  to  my  wife  for  life,  the  remainder  to  my  sonne  Michaell  Griggs  for  life,  the  remainder 

to  my  second  sonne,  and  for  want  of  issue  remainder  to  my  grandchild  Michaell  Pendleton.  To 
my  sonne  Michaell  Griggs  my  two  houses  in  Smithen  streete  in  Exeter.  And  out  of  the  same 
the  some  of  ffower  pounds  and  eight  shillinges  yearlie  for  ever  to  the  vse  of  the  poore  of 
Doddiscombsleighte  in  the  countie  of  Devon  where  I  was  nursed,  and  the  most  substantial!  of 
the  name  of  Babb,  Dudine  and  Shilstons  that  be  inhabiting  wthin  the  said  parishe  shall  bestowe 
the  same.  The  tenement  called  the  Old  Pallace  neare  the  Cathedral  Church  of  S*  Paul  to  my 
sonne  Michaell  Griggs  (part  being  in  his  tenure,  part  in  my  owne)  with  divers  shopps,  sellers, 
sobers  and  appurtenances.  Rent  due  to  the  Lord  Bishop  of  London  uppon  the  lease  by  which 
I  hold  the  same.  Other  messuages  in  Paule’s  Church  yard.  My  auntient  lease  of  two  tenementes 
in  great  Saint  Hellens  which  I  purchased  in  the  names  of  my  sonne  Anthonie,  now  deceased,  and 
Robert  Grigges.  Leases  in  Sl  Clement  Daines  and  Clarkenwell  to  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Wilkinson 
for  life — the  residue,  if  anie,  to  my  five  grandchildren,  Rechawrd  Lawson,  Rechawd  Pendleton, 
Rechawd  Holmaie,  Judith  Holmaie  and  Thomasine  Holmaie.  My  sonne  in  lawe  Richard  Holmaie 
his  house  in  Cheapside  in  the  yeare  1613.  The  three  children  of  my  daughter  Holmaie.  Lease 
of  messuage  neere  Lambes  Conduit  otherwise  Holborne  Conduit.  To  Rechawrd  my  wife  my  houshould 


GRIGG  OF  BEALINGS  PARYA. 


199 


furniture,  except  one  auntient  guilte  salte  with  a  cover,  which  was  my  ffathers,  which  I  give 
to  my  grandchild  Micliaell  Griggs.  To  my  said  wife  two  thousand  pounds.  Vnto  my  sonne 
Robert  Grigg  seaven  hvndred  and  fiftie  poundes,  foure  hvndred  when  he  shall  comence  batchelor 
of  Divinitie  or  proceed  Doctor  of  the  Civill  lawe  or  Doctor  of  Phisick  or  when  he  shalbe  called 
to  the  barr,  and  not  before.  I  ordaine  Michaell  Grigges  my  sonne  sole  executor.  Ynto  my 
daughter  the  Lady  Miller  three  hvndred  poundes.  My  three  sonnes  in  lawe  Sr  John  Miller,  John 
Wilkinson  and  Frances  Pendleton.  Ynto  Marie  Grigges  my  sonne  Michaelle  Griggs’  wife.  My 
brother  in  law  Mr  Richard  Prowse.  My  cozens  Mr  Edwarde  Griggs,  William  Griggs,  Mr  Humfry 
Sidenham,  Mr  John  Borrowe.  Goddaughter  Rechawrd  Prowse,  my  brother  Prowse  her  father.  My 
cozen  Joane  Millington.  I  doe  make  my  lovinge  and  auntient  true  friends  Mr  William  Bolton 
Esquier,  Mr  Anthony  Lowe  of  the  inner  Temple  Esquier  and  Mr  Lawrence  Lownes  overseers. 

Probatum  decimo  nono  die  Augusti,  1623,  juramento  Michaelis  Grigg  filij  defuncti.  The 
fifteenth  day  of  July  1657  Lres  of  Adon  issued  out  to  Benjamine  Grigg,  grandchild  of  Michaell 
Grigg  late  of  Sl  Gregories’  London,  to  Ador  ye  goods  Ac.  vnadstred  by  Michael  Grigg  sonne  and  sole 
exter,  ye  relict  of  y®  sd  Michael  the  testator  being  dead.  P.C.C.  80  Swann. 

The  Inquisition  after  the  death  of  Michael  Grigg  was  taken  at  Amptliill  in  Bedfordshire,  on 
the  5th  of  August,  in  the  22nd  year  of  James  the  First.  He  had  died  seised  of  ten  messuages 
and  of  divers  lands  in  Dunstable  and  Houghton  Regis,  co.  Bedford,  and  of  messuages  and  lands  in 
Carrington  and  Kensworth,  co.  Hertford.  He  had  held  a  messuage  in  Maldon,  co.  Bedford,  Le 
Chequer  in  the  town  of  Northampton,  and  Hargrave  House  in  Bickenhall,  co.  Warwick.  He  had 
pui’chased  messuages  in  Exeter  on  his  marriage  with  Iiichawde  his  wife,  and  lands  in  Snape,  Freston, 
Sternefield  and  Farneham,  co.  Suffolk.  His  will  of  May  14th  1623,  is  recited  to  show  his  disposition 
of  these  properties.  He  died  on  the  15th  of  August,  21  James,  in  the  parish  of  St.  Gregory, 
London.  Richawd,  his  relict,  was  living,  and  held  the  premises  in  Snape,  Ac.  ;  Michael  Grigg,  his 
son  and  heir,  was  of  the  age  of  thirty  years  and  upwards  at  the  time  of  his  father’s  death. 


'Sttbs  relating  to  Suffolk  lan&s,  1611 — 1691 

In  Michaelmas  Term,  1611,  Michael  Grigges,  Gentleman,  bought  of  Barbara  Grigges  widow, 
Godfrey  Allen  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  Robert  Smyth  and  Cecilia  his  wife,  Mary  Grigges  and 
Alice  Grigges,  two  messuages  with  gardens,  &c.,  and  one  hundred  and  twenty  two  acres  of  land  in 
Snape,  Freston,  Sternfield  and  Farnham  in  the  county  of  Suffolk.  Fine,  Mick.  9  Jas.  I. 

An  Indenture  is  entered  on  the  Recovery  Roll  of  Michaelmas  Term,  1653,  in  which  Michael 
Grigg  of  Otley,  co.  Suffolk,  Gent.,  sells  to  Benjamin  Grigg,  Citizen  and  Draper  of  London,  two 
messuages  with  lands  in  Snape,  Freston,  Sternfield  and  Farnham ;  also  messuage  and  lands  in 
Mawldon  and  Amthiil,  co.  Bedford,  formerly  the  property  of  Michael  Grigg,  Gent.,  grandfather  of  the 
vendor,  and  Hargrave  House  in  Church  Bicknell,  co.  Warwick,  with  the  lands  belonging. 

In  Hillary  Term,  1691,  Michael  Grigg,  Doctor  of  Law,  and  Barbara  his  wife  sold  to 
Robert  Haywai'd  a  messuage  and  lands  in  Snape,  Farnham  and  Sternfield,  co.  Suffolk.  Fine, 
Hill,  8  W.  &  M. 


200 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


<®rtgg  of  dealings  iParba. 


.  .  .  Grigg  of  co.  Bedford.  Bysshe  s  Visitation  of- 
Svffolk.  ( Robert  Griggs  of  that  county  subscribed 
£25  in  1588,  to  repel  the  Spanish  Armada  ) 


Michael  Grigg  of  London,  Gent.  ;  “  from: 
co.  Beds.”  Bysshe  Bought  lands  in 
Snape,  &c.,  co.  Suffolk,  1611.  Fine.  Will, 
P.C.C.  80  Swann,  14  May  1623,  proved 
19  Aug.  following.  Inq.  p.m.  22  Jas.  I. 
Died  15  Aug  1623.  Estates  in  Beds., 
Herts.,  Warwick,  Devon,  Northton.  &c., 
Lord  of  Becklings  Manor  in  Snape,  &c., 
co.  Suffolk. 


=Rechord,  sister  of  Mr.= 
Richard  Prowse,  mar.  at 
St.  Thomas  the  Apostle, 
London,  28  Aug.  1581. 
Renupt.  Sir  Richd.Deaue, 
his  2d  wife,  anno  1635. 


=Sir  Richard  Deane,  Kt., 
Alderman  of  London.  Will, 
P.C.C.  82  Sadler,  8  July 
1631,  proved  16  July  fol¬ 
lowing.  See  page  48,  Mild- 
MAY  OF  CRETINGHAM. 


William  Grigg  of  Exeter,  mer-: 
chant.  Will,  P.C.C.  80  Weldon, 
29  Dec.  1616,  proved  23  Aug. 
1617.  Names  his  brother, 
Michael  Grigg,  and  Recliord,  his 
wife. 


I - 

Thomas 

Grigg. 


William  Grigg, 
living  1623. 


Edward  Grigg. 
living  1623. 


Anne,  ux.  Humfrey 
Sydenham,  1623. 


Prudence,  ux. 
Burrow,  1623. 


John 


Robert=p. 
Grigg  of 
London, 

2d  son 
to  whom 
his  father 
devised 
his  Suf¬ 
folk  es¬ 
tates. 


Michael  Grigg  of  London,  Esq. ,  and=j=Mary. 
of  Dunstable,  co.  Beds.,  son andheir, 
aged  30  in  1623.  Bought  Manor  of 
Monken  Hadley,  co.  Middx.,  1627- 
High  Sheriff  of  Bedfordshire,  1630. 

Sold  tenement  in  Monken  Hadlev, 

23  July  1650. 


Anthony  Grigg, 
Citizen  &  Gold¬ 
smith  of  London. 
Will,  P.C.C.  84 
Dale, proved  9  Oct. 
1621,  by  Michael 
Grigg,  his  father. 


- 1 — r~ - 

Mary,  wife  of  Sir 
John  Miller,  1623, 
and  had  issue. 

Elizabeth,  wife  of 
John  Wilkinson, 
1623. 


Frances,  wife  of 
Frances  Pendle¬ 
ton,  &  had  issue, 
1623.  She  re¬ 
nupt.  Alexander 
Baker, Esq.,  J.P. 
for  Middlesex. 


- 1 

A  dau.  married 
Richard  Holmaie, 
and  had  issue. 

A  dau.  married 
John  Lawson,  and 
had  issue. 


Michael  Grigg,  son  and 
heir,  1623;  died  beyond 
the  seas,  s.p.  Admon. 
1656,  to  Benjamin 
Grigg,  his  brother. 


Abraham  Grigg,  2d  son, 
of  Warfield,  co.  Berks., 
Esq.  Admon.  13  Feb. 
1656-7,  to  Margaret, 
his  wife. 


Benjamin  Grigg, final  Joseph,  • 
administrator  of  his  bapt.  at 
grandfather,  and  of  Hadley, 
his  brother,  Michael  18  Aug. 
Grigg  in  1657.  1636. 


Rechord,  mar.  Richard  Pea¬ 
cock, Esq.,  Lord  of  the  Manor 
of  Totteredge,  Herts.  Mar. 
lie.  11  Jan.  1633-4.  Her 
will,  28  Feb.  1664. 


Mary,  mar.  Sir 
Richard  Ga- 
mon,  23  Dec. 
1646,atSouth 
Mimms. 


Michael  Grigg  of  Bealings  Parva,  co.  Suffolk, =j=Dorothy,  dau.  of  Robert  Gosnolcl  of  Otley,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  and  of  Dorothy,  his  wife,  who 


Gent.  Bought  lands  there  Fine,  Trin.,  1656. 
Entered  pedigree  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation,  1664. 
Buried  at  Little  Bealings,  17  Jan.  1669-70. 


Dorothy  Grigg,  living 
1673,  when  her  mother 
made  her  will. 


Robert  Grigg, 
bapt.  1656  ;  d. 
in  infancy. 


made  will,  Cur.  Ep.  Nonv  ,  24  Aug.  1671,  sister  of  Edward  Gosuold  of  Great  Yarmouth, 
Gent.,  whose  will,  Arch.  Suff.,  is  dated  20  Oct.  1673.  Buried  in  Little  Bealings  chancel, 
18  March  1678,  where  was  formerly  a  M.I.  to  her  memory.  Tom  Martin's  MSS. 


Rachel,  bapt. 
1653. 


Robert  Grigg, 
bapt  1662  ; 
living  1673. 


Charles  Grigg, 
bapt.  1663. 


Anthony, 
bapt.  1667- 


- 1 

Bridget, 
bapt.  1668. 


Frances  Grigg,  bapt.  at  Little 
Bealings,  19  April  1656.  Of 
Foulsham,  co.  Norfolk,  spr, 
8  Aug.  1720,  when  she  made 
will,  Arch.  Norw.,  naming  her 
nieces,  Recliord  Grigg  and 
Dorothy,  then  the  wife  of  .  .  . 
Springold. 


Michael  Grigg,  bapt.  at  Little  Bealiugs,- 
2  Jan.  1659  ;  B.A.,  Emmanuel  Coll., 
Camb.,  1681  ;  M.A.,  1685  ;  LL.D., 
Com.  Regis,  1689  ;  presented  to  Cres- 
singham,  Norff.,  1691  ;  Rector  of 
Upwell,  Norff  ,  1692.  Admon.,  P.C.C. 
1698.  to  Barbara,  his  relict.  Sold  lands 
in  Snape,  &c.,  co.  Suffolk,  bv  Fine, 
Hill,  3,  W.  and  M. 


=Barbara,  dau.  and  devi¬ 
see  of  Reginald  Williams, 
Esq.,  of  Stoke  next  Nay- 
land,  co.  Suff.,  who  made 
will,  P.C.C.  72  Eut,  20 
Nov.  1688.  Joined  her 
husband  in  sale  of  lauds 
in  Snape,  &c.,  3  W.  and 
M. 


EverardGrigg, 
bapt.  at  Lit¬ 
tle  Bealings, 
1664  ;  devisee 
of  her  uncle, 
Edward  Gos- 
nold,  1673. 


- 1 

Adam 
Grigg,  bapt. 
at  Little 
Bealings,  1 
Dec.  1669. 


Rechord  Grigg,  niece 
Frances  Grigg,  1720. 


and  devisee  of 


Dorothy,  wife  of  .  .  .  Springold,  niece  and 
devisee  of  Frances  Grigg,  1720. 


The  Arms  of  Grigg  of  Little  Bealings,  at  the  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  in  1664  ( Harl .  MS.  1085),  were  Argent,  three  lions 
passant,  in  pale,  with  a  bordure,  Azure,  and  were  identical  with  those  borne  by  Michael  Grigg,  High  Sheriff  of  Bedford,  in  1630. 
Davy,  in  his  “  Arms  of  Suffolk  Families  ”  {Add.  MS.  19,  159),  adds  a  Crest — Out  of  a  ducal  coronet,  a  dexter  hand  holding 
up  a  swan’s  head,  all  proper. 

In  the  window  of  a  room  in  the  Pied  Bull,  near  the  church  at  Islington,  on  the  ground  floor,  are  the  Arms  of  Sir  John 
Miller,  Ivnt.,  of  Islington.  Azure,  an  inescutcheon  between  four  mascles,  Or,  impaling  Grigg  of  Suffolk.  Lvsons’  “  Environs  of 
London,”  Vol.  Ill,  139. 

In  documents  relating  to  the  family,  of  the  sixteenth  and  earlier  part  of  the  seventeenth  centuries,  the  name  is  not 
infrequently  written  Griggs. 


4§>ootitoin  of  JBkuljalk 


Jhmortal  Hearings. 

The  Arms  of  Gooding  of  Freston,  as  granted  by  Robert  Cooke  Clarencieux  in  1596  to  Robert 
Gooding  of  that  place,  were  Or,  a  fess  between  six  lions’  heads  erased  gules.  The  fess  is  charged 
with  a  crescent  argent  for  difference,  he  being  the  descendant  of  a  second  son  of  his  Blaxhall 
ancestor.  The  Crest  is  a  griffin  sejant  with  wings  expanded  or,  legged  and  beaked  sable,  guttee  de 
poix.  The  grant  itself  has  been  lost,  but  it  was  confirmed  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1612,  and 

is  depicted  on  the  margin  of  the  original  pedigree  in  the  College  of  Arms.  Hark  MS.  1820,  the 

corresponding  volume  at  the  British  Museum,  has  a  similar  shield  at  fo.  2,  with  the  words  “  Gooding 
per  Cooke,  1596,”  whilst  the  Crest  is  given  at  fo.  44b. 

In  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664,  Hark  MS.  1085,  Richard  Gooding  of  Wherstead  has  the 
same  escutcheon,  also  with  a  crescent,  he  being  the  descendant  of  another  second  son.  It  is  assigned, 
provisionally,  to  George  Gooding  of  Debach  and  Robert  Gooding  of  Charsfield,  whose  ancestors  came 
from  Woodbridge  and  probably  from  Blaxhall,  with  a  note  implying  that  the  matter  would  be 
referred  to  Loudon  for  enquiry.  Goodwin  of  Torrington,  co.  Devon,  who  came  from  Suffolk,  bore 

the  like  ensigns  with  a  ring  on  the  fess  for  difference. 

In  the  earlier  evidences  of  this  family  the  name  is  written  “  Gooding.”  In  the  later  it  is 
often  changed  to  “Goodwin.”  In  the  will  of  Margaret  Gooding  of  Rendlesham,  1596,  it  is 

‘‘Goodwin”  in  the  transcript  and  “Gooding”  in  the  margin.  The  Shield  granted  to  Gooding  of 
Freston  in  1596  is  a  modification  of  those  ascribed  to  the  Earl  of  Kent  and  other  ancient  Godwins. 
Many  of  these  are  pictured  in  the  volume  known  as  E.D.N.  56,  in  the  College  of  Arms.  Amongst 
them  is  the  Coat  of  “  Goodwin  his  daughter  wife  to  K.  Edw:  Confes.,”  Gules,  between  two  bars  Or, 
six  lions’  heads,  three  two  and  one. 

2  c 


202 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


mm  of  aaaiittm  ©oo&mj.  1515. 

In  Dei  Nole  Amen;  the  xiiij  day  of  August  the  yere  of  our  lorde  god  ml  ccccc  xiij  I 

Will  in  Goodynge  of  Blaxhall  make  my  testament  and  last  wyll  in  forme  and  mam  foluynge.  ffyrst 

I  bequeth  my  sowle  to  Allmyghty  god,  my  body  to  be  buryed  in  the  cherch  yerd  of  seynt  Petyr 
in  Blaxhall.  Itm  I  bequeth  to  the  heygh  aw?  of  the  seyd  cherch  for  my  ththys  forgotyn  iij8  iiijd. 

Itfri  to  the  repacon  of  the  seyd  cherch  iiij11  Itm  I  wyll  that  my  executor  shall  pvyde  a  seculer 

pryst  to  synge  in  the  cherch  of  Blaxhall  by  the  space  of  xiij  wekys  for  my  sowle  A  for  all  my 
fryndys  sowlys.  Itm  I  bequeth  to  the  covent  of  Orford  ffreyers  to  synge  a  trentall  for  me  &  for 
my  fryndys  sowlys  xs.  Itm  I  bequeth  Johan  my  dowghtr  v  marke  in  mony  ij  melche  nette  xx 
shepe.  Itm  I  bequeth  to  emy  of  my  god  chyldern  a  mother  shepe.  Itm  I  will  my  execute's 
delyul  to  Iken,  Tunstall  &  Ashe  as  moche  whete  A  malte  as  shall  be  sufficyent  for  eche  of  the 
seyd  townys  a  cherchall.  The  resydowe  of  all  my  goodys  on  bequethyd  I  put  to  the  dysposycoh 
of  my  execute's,  they  to  doo  A  dyspose  for  the  wele  of  my  sowle  &  for  all  my  fryndys  sowlys, 
whom  I  make  and  ordeyne  Mathew  Goodynge  my  son  &  John  Alette,  and  Syr  Thomas  Harman 
pson  of  Blaxhall  sugvysor.  Probatum  xviij0  die  Septembr  M°  cccccxiij  executor^. 

Arch.  Suff.  Book  No.  7  fo.  12. 


5®ill  of  (Booking,  1519- 

The  xxvi  day  of  Merche  the  yere  of  oure  lord  god  m'cccccxix  I  Mathew  Gooddyng  of  Blax. 
hall  make  my  testamet  &  last  will  in  math  &  forme  folowyng  : — first  I  bequeth  my  soule  to 
allmighty  god  A  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  cherche  yerde  of  Blaxhall.  Yf  yt  fortune  that  Sr 
Thomas  Harman  now  pson  of  Blaxhall  fortewne  to  lede  his  chawnsell  then  I  will  toward  the  ledyng 
vi8  viijd.  I  bequeth  to  the  repacon  of  the  seid  cherche  xx8.  To  the  hey  auter  of  Tunstall  xijd. 
To  the  hey  auter  of  Asche  xijd.  I  will  that  my  execute's  fynde  me  a  secular  priste  to  syng  in 
the  prisch  cherche  of  Blaxhall  for  di  yere.  I  will  that  John  my  son  have  my  lond  that  I  bowght 

of  John  Engle.  I  wyll  that  the  seyd  John  haue  my  ferine  called  Walens  in  Blaxhall  holy  as  I  had 

itt  A  yf  yt  happyn  the  seid  John  to  dey  be  fore  his  mother  then  I  will  that  Mathew  his  brother 
haue  the  seid  ferine  as  John  scliuld  haue  had.  I  will  that  Willm  my  son  haue  my  tenements 
Gooddyngf  &  Lynds  w*  all  ptenants  in  Tustall  Asche  A  Blaxhall  after  the  decesse  of  his  mother  it 
ho  to  pay  to  Matheu  to  Thoms  A  to  Rycherd  his  brothern  xx  mark,  &  yff  yt  happyn  eny  of  the 
iij  brothern  to  dey  A  not  paid  then  the  ou!  lewer  to  haue  his  gte.  I  will  that  the  seid  Willm 
haue  at  the  tyme  of  his  entrans  ii  horse  pee  xiij8  iiijd,  a  kowe,  a  liefker,  &  x  mother  scheppe  iij 

combe  whete  &  v  combe  barley,  &  yff  it  happyn  Wyllm  to  dey  &  nat  in  posesyon  of  the  said 

londs,  then  I  will  that  Thom’s  his  brother  haue  the  seid  tenements  as  Willm  schuld  haue  had  them. 
I  will  that  Johne  Jane  &  Dorethey  my  dowters  have  eyther  of  them  xl8  at  the  time  of  mariage. 
I  will  that  eu!  yone  of  my  godscliildern  haue  a  mother  schyppe  Itm  I  will  that  Margery  my  wyfi’ 
haue  all  my  londs  Are  A  bonde  in  Blaxhall  Tunstall  &  Asche  duryng  her  lyff  &  after  her  decesse 
to  remayne  to  my  ehildern  a  cordyng  to  this  my  last  will.  Itm  I  will  sche  haue  all  my  mouabills 
A  detts  A  sche  to  discharge  my  wyll.  I  ordeyn  the  seid  Margery  my  wiff,  John  Rosenton  ofi’ 
Lerynghin  my  executors,  they  to  do  &  dispose  for  the  welthe  oA  my  soule  :  before  thes  wittnesses, 
Sr  Thoms  Herman  pson  of  Blaxhall,  John  A'lete,  John  Lacy  A  Thomas  Bedon.  I  will  that  John 
lAete  my  brotherlaw  my  suporsor  haue  for  his  labor  vj8  viijd.  Probatum  Ac.  xiiij  die  Maij  A0  Dfii 
m'°  cccccxix  executoribj.  Arch.  Suff.  Book  No.  8,  fo.  84 


GOODWTN  OF  BLAXHALL. 


203 


Will  of  William  fBrattftoit,  1559. 

The  iiijth  daye  of  Nouembr  m'cccccxxxix,  I  Willyam  Brandon  of  Blaxhale  in  the  countie  of 
Suff.  make  this  my  testament  &  last  will.  I  bequeth  uiy  soule  to  Allmightie  god  and  my  body  to 
be  buryed  w'in  the  cherch  yard  of  saynt  Peter  in  Blaxhale.  I  will  that  Syr  John  Baron  pryst  for 
my  soule  &  all  crysteyn  soulls  in  Blaxhale  cherch  by  the  space  of  a  quarter  of  a  yere  &  he  to  haue 
for  his  labo1  xxx8.  I  gif  ife  bequethe  to  Willm  Goodyng  xi,8 :  to  Mathewe  Goodyng  xl8  ;  to  John 
Goody ng  iii j 11 ;  to  Richard  Goodyng  viu  xiij8  iiijd  ;  to  Doratlie  Goodyng  viij 1  xiijd  iiijd  ;  to  Willm  Goodyng 
my  godson  vj8  viij'1 to  Edwarde  Goodyng  vis  viijd  ;  to  Willm  Wod croft  my  godson  vis  viijd ;  to  Thomas 
Wylde  my  godson  my  saye  coote,  a  ewe  &  a  lamb  ;  to  enjy  other  of  my  godchildren  a  lambe.  I  gif  xx3 
towardys  the  makyng  of  a  newe  coul  ong  of  the  ffownte  in  Blaxhale  cherch.  I  bequeth  to  Roger  Baldrye 
vis  viijd  my  blake  gowne  ;  to  Margarett  Grey  vis  viijd  ;  to  John  Dawys  vi3  viijd  ;  to  John 
Godderde  iij®  iiijd.  I  gif  to  Margerye  my  wyff  all  my  mesuagis  londys  and  tentts,  free  as  bond, 
lyeing  in  Tunstoll,  Biaxha’e  and  Ashe,  hollye  as  I  late  purchased  of  them  of  John  Soone  gent,  to 
haue  &  to  holde  to  the  said  Margery  my  wyff.  I  ordeyn  the  said  Margerye  my  wyff  &  Mathewe 
Goodyng  myn  executors  and  John  Soone  gent  to  be  supvisor.  Hijs  testify  Thoma  Harman  clico 
Rcore  de  Blaxhale,  Thoma  Wylde  &  alijs.  Probation  xxi"-0  die  Januarij  1539  execntoribj. 

Arch.  Suff. 


Will  oi  Sljantas  (Bootiing,  1595. 

The  tenth  day  of  Aprill  1595  I  Thomas  Gooding  of  flrestoun  in  the  county  of  Suff  gent., 
considering  the  vncertenty  of  man’s  life  togeither  wth  the  manny  yeeres  I  have  already  spent  in 
this  worlde,  and  therefore  by  coihon  course  of  nature  not  like  to  coutyniue  long  in  this  life,  but 
thorough  gods  mcies  in  Christ  Jesus  hopeing  and  hastening  to  a  better  lief,  doe  therefore  make  my 
will.  My  bodie  shalbe  buried  in  ffreston  church  before  the  chauncell  doore.  And  I  will  that  my 
execute's  shall  provide  a  faire  graue  stone  to  lay  vpon  nice  wth  a  plate  of  brasse  wrought  into  the 
same,  and  some  good  sentence  of  holy  Scripture  ingraven  therein  togeither  wth  my  name.  1  geue 
to  Robert  Gooding  my  eldest  sonne  and  to  his  heires  one  yeerely  rent  chardge  of  xxvj8  viijd  out  of 
my  landes  in  Kesgraue,  to  the  intent  that  bee  or  the  owners  of  flrestoun  hall  shall  bestowe  the 
same  vpon  the  poorest  inhabitauntes  of  ffreston  from  tyrne  to  tyme.  Also  I  doe  gene  vnto  the 
saide  Rob1  Gooding  and  his  heires  for  ever  one  other  yeerely  rent  chardge  of  twenty  shillinges  out 
of  my  said  landes,  to  thintent  that  hee  or  they  shall  yeerely  procure  therewUl  some  honuest,  learned 
and  godly  preacher  to  make  foure  sermons  in  ffreston  church.  Vnto  my  daughter  Alice  Barman 
the  wife  of  Robt1  Burmann  my  land  in  Whersteede,  and  after  her  decease  to  remayne  to  her  children 
&  theire  heires.  Also  I  geue  vnto  the  said  Alice  my  coppihoulde  land  in  St  Margettes  pish 
Ipswich  and  in  Barking.  Also  vnto  the  said  Rob1  and  Alice  during  theire  twoo  lyves  that  bowse 
wherein  they  and  one  Henry  Crane  now  dwell  in  the  towue  of  Ipswch,  and  after  to  the  children 
of  the  sayd  Robert  and  Alice  and  to  the  heires  of  the  saide  childrenn.  Vnto  Dorothie  Balles  my 
daughter  the  wife  of  Johnn  Bales  of  London,  gouldesmith,  my  houses  in  the  parrish  of  Sl  Mary 
Elmes  in  Ipswcl).  Ynto  Thomas  Gooding  my  sonne  and  to  his  wief  my  tenement  in  the  parrish  of 
Sfc  Mary  at  the  tower  in  Ipswich  and  my  lands  in  Holbrooke — the  sayd  Thomas  not  to  challenge 
any  of  my  coppihoulde  landes.  Ynto  Thomas  Gooding  my  grandchilde  the  sonn  of  Robert  Gooding 


204 


SUFFOLK  MANORrAL  FAMILIES. 


my  sonne,  my  mannor  of  Kesgrave  and  my  lands  in  Kesgrave,  Bellinges,  Martlesham,  ffoxhall  A 
Newborue.  To  Thomazin  Gooding  my  dau.  during  her  naturall  life  forty  poundes  a  yeere. 

The  like  annytee  to  my  daughter  Alice  Burmann.  Ynto  the  said  Thomazin  my  daughter  my 
tenement  in  Nactou.  Vnto  my  nephevve  Mr  Edward  Gooding  of  Ipswich  one  gowne  cloth  and 
to  my  nephewe  William  Goodinge  of  Rendlesham  one  gowne  cloth.  To  my  sister  Hayward 
one  gowen  cloth.  I  will  that  the  sayd  Thomas  Gooding  my  grandchilde  shall  have  to  him 
and  his  heires  all  the  insch  landes  wch  Mr  Richard  Mai’gette  hath  mortgaged  vnto  mee. 
Ynto  Thomazin  my  daughter  three  hundred  poundes  in  monny.  *  And  to  Rob*  Burman  my 

sonne  in  lawe  twoo  hundred  and  threescore  pounds.  To  my  sister  Hayward  thirty  poundes.  To 
Christofer  Balles  the  sonne  of  John  Bales  twenty  pounds  at  his  age  of  one  &  twenty  yeeres.  To 
the  Bailiffes,  Burgeses  and  Comrhaltie  of  the  towne  of  Ipswich  the  some  of  forty  poundes  to  be 
lent  out  to  foure  young  occupiers  from  twoo  yeeres  to  twoo  yeeres  for  ever  Also  to  the  Bailiffes 
Ac.  of  Ipswch  twenty  poundes  to  be  yeerely  laide  out  vpon  wood  and  cole  and  to  be  soulde  out 
againe  to  the  poore  of  Ipswich  at  the  same  price  for  w=h  it  was  bought.  To  Thomas  Burmann  the 
sonne  of  Robert  Burman  fifty  poundes.  Vnto  Robert  Gooding  my  sonne  all  my  armoure  as  well 
for  horsemenn  as  footemenn.  To  Thomazin  my  daughter  a  great  syluer  sault  wth  a  cover  gilt,  two 
bowlls  pcell  gilt,  one  cann  lipped  and  couered  pcell  gilt,  one  dumbe  bedd,  one  lardge  couering  of 

tapestery  woorke,  a  carpett  of  tapstery,  one  hanging  of  tapsterv,  one  cbayer  the  back  of  reed 

veluet,  one  chayre  wth  a  greene  back  imbroderd,  one  stoole  coued  with  yellowe  satten,  one  great 
chaire  looped,  one  lowe  stoole  couered  with  silke.  Vnto  Alice  Burmann  my  daughter  and  Thomazin 
Gooding  my  daughter  all  their  pcells  of  goods  equally  to  be  devyded  betweene  them:  three  great 
chestes  bounde-  wth  iroue,  foure  pickters  in  the  pier,  a  long  damaske  table  cloth,  two  skillitts,  three 
posnetts,  a  cheese  presse,  all  my  brueing  vessells,  one  bedsteed  with  image  wourke,  Ac.  Ac.  All  the 
rest  of  my  househoulde  stuff  I  gene  vnto  Thomas  Gooding  my  sonne.  And  I  ordaine  my  nephewe 
William  Gooding  of  Rendlesham  and  Mr  Richard  Cattlyn  of  Woluerston  executors.  Witnesss ; 
William  Hawes,  Henry  Crane,  John  Hubbard,  Christofer  Hayward,  Ac.  Probatum  decimo  tertio  die 
Nouembris  1595  jur  executorum.  P.C.C.  70.  Scott 

It  would  appear  from  his  Inquisition  Post  Mortem,  38  Elizabeth,  1.  140.,  that  Thomas 
Gooding  held  the  manors  of  Freston  and  Kesgrave,  together  with  lands  and  houses  in  Ipswich, 
Wolverston,  I.ittle  Bealings,  Newborue,  Plavford,  Martlesham,  Foxall,  Wherstead,  Nacton  and  Hol¬ 
brook.  He  died  30  October  37  Elizabeth,  when  Robert  Gooding  his  son  and  heir  was  aged  sixty 
years  and  upwards. 


Will  nf  JItarjiTOt  ffiootunj,  1596. 

The  viijth  day  of  Aprill  1596  I  Margaret  Goodwin  of  Rendlesham  in  the  cownty  of  Sufff  wief 
vnto  William  Goodwin  th’elder  of  Rendlesham  aforesaide  make  this  my  last  will.  My  former  will 
in  th’andes  of  my  brother  in  lawe  Steven  Woodgate  I  vtterly  disanul.  I  desire  to  be  buried  in 
the  church  of  Ash  next  Campessev.  Before  my  last  marriage  my  husband  promised  me  free  liberty, 
if  he  did  survive  me,  to  make  will  to  the  sufhe  of  one  hundred  pounds.  I  will  therefore  that  saide 
husband  doe  pay  vnto  my  sonne  John  Lane  th’elder  saide  hundred  pounds  to  the  pfornmnce  of  this 
will.  Vnto  my  sonne  John  Lane  the  yonger  x11)  part  of  the  saide  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  my 
daughter  Julian  Mowlton  or  her  children  xxu,  and  to  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Shiminge  xxu,  and  to 
my  daughter  Mary  Chapman  ais  Barker  xx",  and  to  my  daughter  ffaith  Barker  x11.  The  residue  to 


GOODWIN  OF  BLAXHALL. 


205 


my  loving  son  John  Lane  th  e  der.  Before  my  marriage  my  sonne  Richard  Barker  was  bownde  by 
law  to  my  husband  William  Goodwin  in  payment  of  threescore  and  six  pounds,  being  part  of  my 
childrens  stocke.  Said  Barker  to  put  in  good  assurance  to  my  sonne  John  Lane  thelder.  Saide 
threescore  and  six  pounds  to  remaine  to  saide  daughter  ffaith  Barker  and  her  children.  Bonds  of 
husband  to  my  brother  Stephen  Woodgate.  Husband  and  George  Goodwin  his  brother  to  be  bound 
in  one  thousand  mi  kes  vnto  Richard  Barker  of  Nayland  and  William  Peartree  of  Allington  for  the 
assurance  of  my  childrens  stocke.  My  sonne  John  Lane  th’elder  to  be  sole  executor.  Probat  17 
Julij  1598  Johi  Lane.  Arch.  SufF.  Book  No.  37,  fo.  147. 

The  testatrix,  whose  name  is  written  “Goodinge”  in  the  margin  of  her  will,  was  allied  by 
marriage  to  the  Goodwins  of  East  Bergholt  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  Goodings  of  the  Blaxhall 
family  on  the  other.  The  case  of  Barker  contra  Goodwin,  Ja8  I,  B  &  A,  B.  16,  75,  relates  to 
the  bond  referred  to  above.  It  describes  testatrix’s  husband  as  of  Woodbridge  Hasketon  in  1580. 


Mill  of  Hobart  (footling,  1601. 

The  thre  and  twentith  daye  of  December  1601  and  in  the  fortie  and  fower  yeare  of  the 
raigne  of  Queene  Elizabeth  I  Robert  Gooding  of  ffreston  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke  gentleman,  not 
knowing  howe  it  maye  please  the  Lorde  to  dispose  of  me,  make  my  last  will.  I  commend  my  sowle 

into  the  liandes  of  my  maker  and  creator,  from  the  bottom  of  my  harte  beseaching  him  to  accept 

of  the  death  and  passion  of  his  most  deare  sonne  as  a  sufficient  ransome  for  those  manie  and 
grievous  synnes  whereby  I  have  provoked  his  Maistie.  My  bodie  to  be  comelie  and  honestlie  buried 
in  the  chauncell  of  ffreston.  I  bequeath  to  John  Gooding  my  younger  sonne,  at  this  pnt  an  appntice 
in  London  with  Joane  Powell  vvidowe  at  the  Rose  in  Breadstreate,  two  hundred  poundes  to  be  paid 
after  his  appntiship  shall  be  expired.  To  Margaret  Goodinge  my  daughter  two  hundred  and  twentie 
poundes  at  the  daie  of  her  marriage.  To  Marie  Goodinge  my  daughter  one  hundred  and  twentie 
poundes  at  the  daie  of  her  marriage  ;  the  like  portion  to  Vrsula  Goodinge  my  daughter.  To 
Katherine  Hunte  my  daughter  the  wief  of  Thomas  Hunte  of  London  the  sonnne  of  ffiue  poundes 
every  yere  during  the  ioynt  lives  of  husbande  and  herselfe.  To  Anne  Goodinge  my  daughter  nowe 
the  wief  of  John  Pick  mere  of  London  a  like  yerely  guifte.  And  my  two  Executors  of  this  my  last 
will  I  appoint  to  be  Margaret  my  welbeloved  wife  and  Thomas  Goodinge  my  eldest  sonne.  And  I 
doe  entreate  my  brothers  in  lawe  John  Chalauor  and  William  Radcliff  to  be  my  overseers.  Cristofer 

Hayward  a  witness.  Probatum  decimo  die  ffebruarij  1662  Juramento  Executor. 

P.C.C.  18  Bolein. 


Mill  of  (Btihrarti  (Boobing,  1609. 

The  second  daye  of  December  1609  I  Edward  Goodinge  of  Ipswich  make  this  my  last  will.  I 
bequeath  my  soule  into  the  handes  of  Allmightye  god  ;  my  bodie  to  be  decentlie  broughte  to  the 
earthe  aunswerablie  to  the  reputacoh  wherein  I  have  lived,  and  to  burye  my  bodye  in  the  chauncell 
of  S‘  Stephen’s  churche  as  nighe  to  my  late  weif  as  maye  be.  I  give  and  bequeathe  to  my  sonne 
in  lawe  Robert  Mighell  gent9  and  Johane  his  wife  my  daughter,  and  to  theire  heires  betwene  them 
lawfullye  begotten,  my  cheife  howse  in  Westerfeild  with  all  the  yardes  hortyards  gardeins  bames 
and  stables  being  beyonde  Westerfeilde  Greene,  my  twoe  greate  closses  (in)  my  sonne  Matthewes 


206 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


occupacon,  one  by  the  waye  towarde  Witnesham  the  other  by  the  wave  towarde  Tuddenham,  my 
ffreehold  in  Byrstock  &  pece  late  in  the  occupacon  of  Anthony  Goodinge  wtb  the  fourme  where  the 
maypoale  standeth  next  the  hedge  to  Westerfeild  hall,  Ac.,  Ac.  I  bequeathe  vnto  my  sonne 
Mathewe  Goodinge  my  ffreehold  landes  lienge  in  the  Slades,  my  landes  holden  of  the  Mannors  of 
Tuddenham  and  Westerfeild,  and  my  coppyhold  closse  called  Christofer’s  Ashe,  and  after  the  deceasse 
0f  my  said  sonne  I  bequeath  all  the  sayde  land  vnto  my  sayd  sonne  Robert  Mighell  and  Johane  his 
wif  and  to  the  heires  of  the  bodies  of  the  sayde  Robert  and  Johane  forever.  I  giue  vnto  my  lovinge 
sonne  in  lawe  William  Syday  gent9,  my  brother  Robert  Goodinge,  Robert  Mighell  th’elder  my  sonne 
in  lawe  gent9,  Ac.,  my  closses  called  Bolmerlands  &  Markland,  my  wood  called  Bachin’s  Wood,  Ac., 
as  my  ffeoffees  of  trust  that  they  assure  the  same  to  my  daughter  Marye  Jerrome  and  her  heires 
in  suche  sorte  that  Edwarde  Jerrome  hir  husband  shall  not  receive  the  yssues.  In  case  the  said 
Marye  shall  departe  this  lief  before  the  said  Edward  Jerrome,  sayde  ffeoffees  shall  sell  the  said  lands 
and  the  money  thereof  shall  be  disposed  in  fourme  followinge  (.that  is  to  saie)  among  the  children 
of  Alice  my  daughter  deceased  late  the  wief  of  John  Ryvett  the  some  of  one  hundreth  poundes, 
parte  and  partelike  at  ther  severall  ages  of  one  and  twentye  yeares :  and  one  hundretli  pouudes 
vnto  my  sayde  daughter  Johan  Mighell;  and  one  hundreth  poundes  vnto  Jane  my  daughter  nowe 
the  wife  of  Daniell  Riche  ;  and  the  remainder  shalbe  given  to  my  daugh£j  Dorathie  Brook  (>.  I  giue 
vnto  the  saide  William  Sydaye,  Ac,,  my  closses  called  Churche  crofte  and  Swannes  Neast,  that  they 
as  my  ffeoffees  assure  the  same  Jane  Riche  and  hir  heires  in  suche  sorte  that  Daniell  Riche  hir 
husband  shall  not  receive  the  yssues,  and  after  the  saide  Jane  shall  departe  this  lief  the  lands  shall 
l'emaine  to  Jane  Parker  the  daughtj  of  my  saide  daughter  Jane,  twoe  pts  to  hir  and  the  thirde 
pte  to  John  Rayston  hir  sonne  and  his  heires  foreul.  I  give  to  Dorathie  my  daughter  the  wief 
of  Anthony  Brooke  my  closse  called  greate  Mangers.  Vnto  my  lovinge  sonne  in  lawe  William 
Sydaye  gent9  A  to  Anne  my  daughter  his  wief  my  closses  called  Bobbetts’  closes  and  Ipswich 
ffeild.  My  mynde  is  the  same  shoulde  not  descend  to  my  sonne  Mathewe  Goodinge  beinge 
my  heire  at  the  Comon  Lawe.  I  doe  clerelie  forgive  my  sonne  Mathewe  of  all  debts  as  my  said 
sonne  standeth  any  wayes  indebted  to  me.  To  the  poore  of  Westerfeild  and  Ipswich  the  some  of 
sixe  poundes.  My  ffunerall  to  be  solempnized  in  suche  sorte  as  becometh  a  man  of  my  place 
decently  and  conveniently.  I  make  my  welbeloved  sonne  William  Sydaye,  Robert  Mighell  and  my 
brother  Robert  Goodinge  my  executours.  Noe  acte  or  thinge  shalbe  done  by  twoe  of  myne 
executours  vnlest  the  sayde  William  Sydaye  be  one  of  the  twoe.  My  saide  sonne  William  Sydaye 
to  sell  my  lease  of  Cursone  howse  and  my  lease  of  Chelmeston.  I  make  George  Wynnyff  gent9 
suprovisor.  I  give  vnto  Johane  the  wief  of  my  sonne  Mathewe  the  some  of  ffourtie  poundes  yf  shee 
shall  overlive  my  saide  sonne.  Probatum  vicessimo  secundo  Junij  1610  Juramento  Wilimi  Sydaye  et 
Roberti  Mighell  executorum,  Roberto  Goodinge  alter  execut  renuciante. 

P.C.C.  61  Wingfield. 


(Kl)attar|)  prayings,  Habers  1655- 

22  Junij  1635.  Robert  Goodinge  of  Bamford  (Pramford)  in  the  county  of  Suffolke  gentle¬ 
man,  by  one  Richard  Nightingell  of  Ipswich  gentleman  brother  in  law  to  the  said  Robert,  offered 
to  sell  your  Orator,  John  Hauers  of  Stockerston  in  the  county  of  Leicester  Esquier,  the  Mannor  of 
ffreston  and  all  the  other  lands  tenements  and  hereditaments  of  the  said  Robert  Goodinge  in 
fireston,  Woulverston  and  Whersted  in  the  said  county  of  Suffolk  together  with  the  Advowsion  of 
the  church  of  ffreston.  Yor  Orator  and  Robert  Goodinge  and  Richard  Nightingell  had  diuers  com- 
unicacons,  and  in  fine  did  agree  that  Goodinge  should  conveye  the  Mannor,  messuages  Ac  to  yor 


GOODWIN  OF  BLAXHALL. 


207 


Orator  and  that  yor  Orator  should  paie  to  Goodinge  the  some  of  two  thousand  one  huudred  three¬ 
score  and  fifteene  pounds,  and  alsoe  that  noe  manner  of  timber  trees,  woods  or  vnderwoods  growing 
vpon  the  premisses  should  be  felled ;  alsoe  that  said  premisses  should  be  free  from  all  former 
leases,  joyntures,  dowers  &c.  made  by  the  said  Robert  Goodinge  or  Thomas  Goodinge  his  late  ffather, 
Robert  Goodinge  his  grandfather  or  Thomas  Goodinge  his  great  grandfather  or  by  any  other  person 
whatsoever.  But  now  soe  itt  is,  may  itt  please  yor  good  Lordshipp,  that  the  said  Robert  Goodinge 
hath,  contrarie  to  the  said  articles,  cutt  downe  and  carried  awaie  divers  of  the  trees  woods  and 
vnderwoods  groweing  vpon  the  premisses.  And  also  that  said  premisses  have  beene  soe  entayled 
that  yor  Orator  cannot  with  saftie  proceede  in  the  aforesaid  bargaine  and  is  likely  to  sustaine  much 
damage  and  losse. 

Answers  of  Robert  Goodinge  gent  &  Richard  Nightingale  gent.,  defendts,  iur  23°  Junij  1635. 
About  one  hundred  yeares  since  one  .  .  .  Lattimore  did  for  good  &  valuable  consideration  convey 

sayd  fhnisses  and  diuers  other  landes  vnto  Thomas  Goodinge,  this  def*  Robert  Goodinge’s  great 
grandfather,  and  the  same  descended  to  Robert  Goodinge  this  def*8  grandfather  sonne  and  heyre  of 
the  sayd  Thomas  &  after  his  discease  to  Thomas  Goodinge  this  def*8  ffather,  sonne  &  heyre  of  the 
said  Robert  and  after  the  discease  of  the  sayd  Thomas,  this  defls  ffather  and  of  Marye  his  wief 
this  defts  mother  (wch  sayd  Marye  after  marryed  one  John  Sherwood,  Doctor  of  Phisicke  &  is 
sithence  dead)  the  same  descended  to  this  def*  as  sonne  and  heyre  of  the  said  Thomas.  Defend*8 
knowe  of  noe  rent  yssuable  out  of  sayd  (fmisses  but  only  3s  6d  p  anh  or  thereabouts  to  the  King’s 
Ma*hB  wch  theis  defend*8  beleeue  haue  beene  dulye  payd.  John  Sherwood  is  still  livinge.  If  the 
sayd  mannor  or  anye  of  the  ^misses  be  chargeable,  defend*  Goodinge  intends  to  discharge  the  same 
&  exonlate.  Defend*8  denie  that  there  hath  beene  tymber  vpon  the  pmisses  cutt  downe  or  carrycd 
away  with  the  knowledge  of  theis  defend*8.  Charles  I.  B  &  A.  H  H.  17.  65. 


Mill  of  foI)tt  (Sootoitg,  1636. 

The  thirtieth  daie  of  December  1636.  I  John  Gooding  cittizen  and  haberdasher  of  London 
doe  make  my  last  will,  hopeing  to  be  saved  and  to  enioy  eternal  rest  and  happines  amongst  the  elect 

Children  of  God.  My  mortall  body  I  remitt  to  the  earth  in  hope  of  a  ioyfull  resurreccon,  the 

buriall  whereof  I  will  to  be  in  the  evening,  and  that  none  but  my  sonnes  and  daughters  and  their 
husbands,  and  such  of  my  kynne  as  will  take  the  paines  to  accompany  my  body  to  the  grave,  shall 
be  invited  or  be  at  my  buriall  :  and  I  will  that  there  shall  not  be  bestowed  above  ffyftie  pounds 
vpon  my  funeralls  more  than  the  severall  legacies  for  mourning.  My  goods  shalbe  devided  into 
three  equall  parts,  one  of  which  I  leave  to  Anne  my  welbeloved  wife  according  to  the  Custome  of 
London  and  one  other  to  my  two  sonnes  John  and  Robert  (being  vnadvanced).  And  as  touching 
my  daughters  I  have  allready  fully  advanced  them  in  marriage.  And  the  other  of  the  three  parts 
of  my  goods  I  give  as  followeth  :  Vnto  ffrancis  West  sonne  of  Richard  West  late  of  London  Silke  - 
man  the  some  of  fyftie  pounds  at  his  age  of  twentie  and  one  yeare.  Yf  Elizabeth  West  daughter 

of  the  said  Richard  shall  be  ruled  by  my  sonne  in  lawe  ffrancis  West  in  her  marriage,  then  I  give 

to  her  the  some  of  ffyftie  pounds.  To  my  loveing  sister  Mris  Margaret  Gayle  twentie  pounds  to 
buy  her  mourning  apparell  to  weare  for  me.  To  my  loveing  sister  Mrs  Mary  Same  ways  fyve 
pounds  to  buy  her  a  ringe  to  weare  in  remembrance  of  mee.  To  my  sister  Anne  Smith  fyve 
pounds.  To  my  flue  sonnes  in  lawe  twentie  pounds  a  peece  to  buy  mourning  apparrell  for  them¬ 
selves  and  their  wyves.  To  the  Parson  and  Churchwardens  of  Allhallowes  Bread  streete  in  London 
the  some  of  tenn  pounds  for  a  piece  of  plate  or  some  other  thing  for  the  vse  of  the  said  church 


208 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


To  Anne  my  wife  all  my  honsehould  stuffe  and  plate  and  the  residue  of  my  goods,  vpon  condicofi 
that  shee  shall  by  writeing  release  and  forever  quite  clayme  vnto  my  sonne  John  Gooding  and  his 
lieire,  all  her  Dower  and  revercons  in  all  my  freehould  lands  in  Ipswich  and  Darkeing  in  the 
counties  of  Surrey  and  Suff.  And  1  make  said  Anne  the  sole  executrix  of  this  will.  And  I  desire 


my  sonne  in  lawe  Mr.  ffrancis  West  the  elder  to  be  Overseer.  I  give  vnto  my  said  sonne  John 


Gooding  all  my  said  lands  in  Ipswich  and  Darkeing.  Item  I  give  to  Mr.  Hughes  preacher  of 
Gods  word  in  the  parrisli  church  of  Alhallowes  Breadstreet  fyve  pounds ;  to  the  releife  of  the  poore 


of  the  Company  of  haberdashers  London  the  some  of  tenn  pounds ;  to  Mr.  Bassill  Niccoll,  clarke  of 
the  said  Company,  fortie  shillings  to  make  him  a  ring ;  to  my  mayd  servants  that  now  dwell  with 
mee  three  pounds  a  peece  to  buy  them  mourneing  gownes.  Probatum  septimo  die  Martij  1636 


Juramento  Anne  Gooding  relce. 


P.  C.  C.  41  Goare. 


Will  of 


The  third  of  August  1647  I  Stephen  Goodinge  late  of  Bury  S1  Edmondes,  gent,  beinge  iveake 
in  body  but  of  perfect  memory,  doe  make  this  my  laste  will  in  mannj  followinge.  Into  the  handes 
of  All  mighty  God  that  gave  ytt  I  commend  my  spiritt,  fervently  praying  and  faithfully  trusting 
through  the  death  and  passion  of  my  most  deere  Redeemer  to  find  remission  of  my  sinns.  Ynto 
Marie  my  lovinge  wyfe  my  messuage  in  Cockrow  in  Bury  and  meadows  wthowt  the  Westgate  att 
Bury.  I  doe  give  unto  my  sayd  wyfe  the  somme  of  ffive  hundred  poundes  to  make  vpp  the 
sayd  messuage,  together  with  other  messuages  in  Bury  devised  to  the  sayd  Mary  by  her  late 
vncle  Mr  Edward  Darbye,  to  bee  of  the  yeerely  value  of  one  hundred  poundes,  as  I  did  promise 
vppon  maryage,  shee  the  sayd  Mary  to  give  vnto  my  executor  and  to  Anne  Goodinge  his  daughter 
sufficient  release  in  lewe  of  her  right  of  dower  in  my  messuage  called  the  Stillyard  in  the  Key 
pish  in  Ipswich.  In  token  of  my  coniugall  love  to  my  sayd  wife  I  further  devise  vnto  her  all 
plate  (reserving  allwayes  ffowre  peeces  of  plate  given  mee  by  my  ffather)  all  bedding,  howsholdstuffe, 
Ac.  (excepting  the  last  plate  reserved,  one  scrutoone  or  cabinett  plated  with  yron  plates,  one  Danske 
chest  plated  wth  yron  having  my  name  sett  in  yron  worke  vpon  the  cover,  and  one  greene  embroydered 
carpett  which  was  mine  before  marryage)  and  lastly  my  grey  ambling  nagge  or  the  sin  of  sixe  pounds 
thirteene  shillinges  fowre  pence  to  buy  her  one,  which  shee  pleaseth.  Plate  vnto  Anne  the  wyfe 
of  my  nephewe  Richard  Goodinge  gent,  and  Elizabeth  his  eldest  daughter.  Ynto  Anne  his  yonger 
daughter  my  tennemcnt  called  the  Stillyard  in  the  Key  pish,  with  all  the  howses,  sellers,  sobers, 
warehouse,  stables,  yardes,  gardens  Ac.  belonging^ — to  her  and  her  heires  for  ever.  Provided  that 
yf  said  Anne  shall  dye  before  she  attaine  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares,  I  devise  said  messuage, 
from  and  after  her  decease,  vnto  my  neece  Katheryne  Coke  daughter  to  my  late  brother  John 
Gooding  and  to  her  heires  for  ever.  I  give  vnto  the  children  of  John  Gooden  late  of  Trimlie  who 
marryed  Ann  Lewes  my  sisters  daughter  the  sm  of  ffifty  poundes  to  be  equally  distributed  as  they 
shall  severally  attaine  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  Vnto  the  sonne  of  one  that  marryed 
my  sister  Ivempes  daughter  tenn  poundes  when  one  and  twenty.  Ynto  my  cozens  Edmund 
Legge,  Stephen  Legge,  Richard  Legge  and  John  Legge.  Vnto  my  brother  in  lawe  Mr  John 
Knappe  of  great  Ellinghm  in  Norff.  ffive  poundes  to  buy  him  a  peice  of  plate.  Ynto  my 
cozens  Thomas  Knappe  and  Charles  Knappe  sonns  of  the  sayd  John,  and  unto  my  cozen 
Cotton,  widdow,  daughter  to  my  sayd  brother  Knappe,  my  cozens  Mary  and  Beatrice  two 
other  daughters  of  said  brother  Knappe.  Ynto  Elizabeth  Keble  wyfe  of  Mr.  Thomas  Keble  who 
maryed  my  wives  sister.  Ynto  my  cozen  John  Wright  of  Whersted  gent.  Ynto  my  worthy  freinde 


GOODWTN  OF  BLAXHALL. 


209 


Henry  Coke  of  Tkoriugton  in  Suff  Esq5  the  sin  of  twenty  poundes  to  buy  him  a  geldinge,  or  my 
yonge  gray  mare ;  which  he  pleaseth.  And  I  give  vnto  MIS  Margarett  Coke  his  wyfe  the  some  of 
tenn  poundes  to  buy  her  a  nagge.  Ynto  Mr8  Bridgett  Cooke  their  daughter  ffive  and  twenty 
poundes  to  buy  her  some  plate  and  also  my  scrutoore  or  cabinett  which  is  at  my  house  att  Bury 
reserved.  Ynto  Mr.  Richard  Cooke  eldest  sonne  of  the  sayd  Henry  my  black  geldinge,  and  to  Mri* 
Mary  Cooke  his  wyfe  five  poundes  to  buy  her  a  piece  of  plate.  I  give  vnto  Mr  Roger  Coke,  Mr 
Robert  Coke  and  M1'8  Theophila  Coke  children  of  the  sayd  Henry  Coke  to  each  of  them  ffive 
poundes  to  buy  them  plate.  Ynto  Mr  Robert  Coke  sonne  of  Clement  Coke  Esqj  deceased  ffourtie 
shillinges  to  buy  him  a  ringe.  Vnto  Mrs  Theophila  Coke  daughter  of  Arthur  Coke  Esq3  deceased. 
Ynto  Mr  Cyriake  Coke  who  maryed  my  niece  Katheryne  Smyth.  I  give  vnto  the  sayd  Katherine 
my  greine  embroydered  (carpett)  att  my  house  att  Bury  formerly  in  this  will  reserved.  To  my 

worthy  friends  Sr  John  Rous  of  Henham  Knight,  John  Scrivener  of  Sybton  Esq3,  Mr  Almott  Clench 

of  Bealinges  Hall  Esq3,  Mns  Susan  Clench  &  Alris  Dorotbye  Clench  children  of  the  sayd  Allmott 
Clench  fourtie  shillinge  a  peece  to  buy  them  ringes.  Vnto  Mr  Edmund  Clench  of  Ipswch  merchant 
and  vnto  Edmund  Clench,  William  Clench.  Phillipp  Clench,  Andrew  Clench  and  Dorcas  Clench  his 
children.  I  give  ringes  to  Mrs  Digbye  of  Layd  De  la  Hage  in  Essex  widdowe  and  vnto  her  two 

sonnes  Mr  John  Smyth  and  Mr  Edmund  Smyth.  Ynto  Mr  Edward  Dygbye  sonne  of  the  sayd  Mra 

Dygbye  one  browne  horse  colt  which  hee  hath  now  in  his  possession.  Vnto  Mr  Salter  Minister  of 
Bromely  in  Essex  and  to  his  wyfe  and  to  their  twoe  sonnes  Edward  and  Thomas  peeces  of  plate. 
I  doe  hereby  devise  vnto  my  sayd  nephew  Richard  Gooding  all  my  readie  money  bills  bonds  plate 
jcwells  &c.  and  constitute  him  sole  and  only  executor  of  this  will,  to  which  I  have  sett  my  seale 
the  day  and  yeare  first  above  wrytten.  Probation  octavo  die  ffebruary  1647  Juramento  Richard: 
Gooding.  P.  C.  C.  37  Essex 


©aattmg  Suffolk  Uisttatimt.  1612. 

Will m  Goodinge  of  Backshali  in  Sufi’:  mar:  &  had  issue  Mathewe  sonne  &  h:  Thom:  2d  sonne. 

Thom:  Goodinge  of  Freston  in  Suff:  2d  sonne  of  Wi  ftm  mar:  A  had  issue  Robt  sonne  &  h: 
Thom:  2d  sonne. 

Robt  Goodinge  of  Freston  in  Suff:  sonne  &  b:  of  Thom:  mar:  Margaret  ye  d:  of  James 

Ratcliff  of  Norwich  A  had  issue  Thom:  sonne  &  lv  Robt  2d  obiit  sine  pie  John  3J  ife  of  London  in 

Bred  streete  mar:  Ann  ye  d:  of  Walter  Browne  of  Beckworth  Castell  in  Surry  Katherin  mar:  to 
Thom:  Hunt  of  London  Margarit  mar:  to  Thom:  Toker  of  London  Gent  Mary  mar.  to  Samuel! 
Samwayes  of  Whersted  in  Suff:  Ann  mar:  to  Withn  Smith  of  Friston  in  Suff: 

Thom:  Goodinge  of  Ipswich  in  Suff:  Gent:  sonne  &  h:  of  Robt  mar:  Mary  ye  d:  of  Thom: 

Burlz  of  Debden  in  Suff:  Esqr  &  had  issue  Thom:  sonne  &  h:  age  4  Margaret  age  8  Mary  age  6 

Jane  age  3.  _ 

Wilim  Goodinge  of  Backshali  in  Suff:  Gent:  mar:  Margery  dan:  of  .  .  .  &  had  issue 

Mathew  sonne  &  h:  Thom  2d  wlierof  ye  other  howse  is  desended. 

Mathew  G:  of  Ipswich  in  Suff:  sonne  &  h:  of  Wilim  mar:  Jane  d:  of  Wilim  Gardner  &  had 
issue  Edward  sonne  &  h: 

Edward  G:  of  Ipswich  sonne  &  h:  of  Mathew  mar:  Jane  d:  of  Robt:  Jenner  of  Grounstore  in 
Suff:  and  had  issue  Edward  sonne  &  h:  Mathew  2d  Wilim  3  John  4  Ann  Jane  Dorathe  Elizabeth 
&  Margarett.  From  Camden’s  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  Harl.  MS.  1820.  fo.  24b  25. 

2  C 


210 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(^oolitns  iJetitgree,  Candler 


Harl.  M S  6071,  pp.  4-50,  451,  collated  with  Tanner  MS.,  Lib.  Bodleian ,  ISO,  121. 


Matthew  Gooding  of  Blaxhall  in  Sujf:  ■ 


Matthew  Gooding  of  lpswich=p Joane  daughter  of  Wm. 
Gent ,  Portman.  Gardiner. 


Thomas  Gooding  of  Preston. 


William  Gooding  of  Wood- 
bridge. 


Jane, =f=  Ed,  ward- 


daughter 


Gooding 


of  Rob't.  oflpswich 
Jenour  of  Portman. 
Grundis- 
borough. 


■Cicely, 
daughter 
of  ..  . 
Barbor. 


Tt 


Matthew  Gooding 
( with  a  mullet) 

Richard  Gooding 
( with  a  martlet). 


.  Mary  Gooding,  married 

Gooding.  to  ..  .  Jerom. 


John  Gooding 
(with  a  Heur 
de  lys ). 

Henry  Good¬ 
ing  ( with  an 
annulet). 


i  r 

Alice  Good¬ 
ing. 

Joane  Good¬ 
ing. 


Anne,=j=R ober  t  Elizabeth,  Margery 


daughter  of  Gooding. 
Edward 
Leggf  Legy. 

Tanner  MS. 

180,121.) 


daughter 
of  Bar¬ 
tholomew 
Hall  of 
JVher- 
sted.  ' 


Gooding. 
=r=John 
Fisher  of 
Ipswich. 

X 


S.P. 


I - 

Edward 
Gooding, 
heire  of 
Edward. 


Joane 

Gooding. 

Matthew 

Gooding. 


TT 


Wm.  Gooding.  Dorothie  Good-  Margaret  Good-  Joane  Gooding,  married  Nathaniel 

—  ing,  married  1,  ing,  married  to  to  Parker,  a  grocer  in  Gooding. 

Anne  Gooding,  to  Crane;  2,  to  Twede.  (Tweed.  Ipswich.  ( Christopher  — 

married  to  Wm.  Copping ;  3,  to  Tanner  MS.)  Parker,  Jan.  25  1587.  StephenGood- 

Siday.  Broke.  Tanner  MS.  180,  121.)  ing,  s.p. 


.. — 

Richard= 

Gooding. 


_ l 


John  Gooding.=j=.  .  .  daughter  and,  after  the  death  of  John  her  Anne  Gooding,  Richards  Anne  Gooding,  daughter  of  John 

brother,  heire  of  Christopher  Wright.  Tanner  s.p.  Gooding.  Aldus,  Portman  of  Ipswich. 

MS.  180,  121. 


.  .  .  married  to  Cyriake  Coke,  sonne  oj  Henry  Coke  of  Thorington,  Esq;  Tanner  MS.  180,  121. 


William  Good  ing. =f=  .  .  . 


George  Gooding,  s  p. 


James  Gooding. =p Eliza,  dough:  of  ..  .  Palmer  of  Norff.  Esq. 


William  Gooding, 
s.p. 


John  Gooding.^ Mary,  sister  of  Miles  Edgar 
of  Cranley  Hall  in  Eye,  and 
daughter  of  Miles. 


l — i - - 

1.  James  Gooding. 

2.  William  Gooding, s.p. 


3.  John  Gooding. 

4.  George  Gooding. 


Henry  Gooding 


Wm.  Gooding  of  Ilasketon,  Jus-- 
tice  of  the  Peace  this  yeare  1655. 
(Of  Woodbridge.  Tanner  MS. 
180,  121.) 


■Margerie,  one  of  the  tiro  daughters 
&  coheirs  of  W m.  Raleigh,  Gent.  ; 
her  sister  was  married  to  Henry 
Stebbing. 


Robert  Gooding. 
Tanner  MS. 


1.  Bridget,  to 
Daniel  Clench 
of  Burgh,  Esq. 
Tanner  MS.  180. 


William. 


John. 


Mary. 


Robert. 


Elizabeth. 


Bassingborne. 


I - 

Susan. 


’1  homas. 


2.  T  emperanee ,  mar¬ 
ried  to  Robert  Sparrow 
of  Wickham  Brooke. 


Henry. 


Sarah 


Although  not  always  accurate,  this  pedigree,  written  by  a  neighbour  in  the  lifetime  of  many  of  the  parties  it  names,  is 
contemporary  evidence  of  no  mean  value.  It  will  be  noticed  that  it  gives  the  Goodwins  of  Rendham  and  Marlesford,  one  of 
whom  termed  Goodwin  of  Martlesham  Hall  his  cousin,  a  common  ancestry  with  the  rest. 


GOODWIN  OF  BLAXHALL. 


211 


(footling  of  3fpstotcl). 


William  Gooding  of  Blaxhall,  co.  Suffolk  ;  W'ill  Arch.  Suff.  14  Aug.= 
1513,  proved  18  Sept,  same  year  ;  bequest  to  the  poor  of  Iken, 
Tunstall  and  Ash  ;  Matthew  Gooding,  his  son,  and  John  Flete 
being  executors. 


Matthew  Gooding  of; 
Goodings  in  Blaxhall,  co. 
Suffolk  ;  Will  Arch.  Suff. 
26  March  1519,  proved  14 
May  1519  ;  lands  in  Blax¬ 
hall,  Tunstall  and  Ash. 


i - 

^Margery, 
1519  and 
surviving 
husbands. 


living= William  Brandon  of  Blaxhall, 
1539,  2d  husband  ;  made  Will  Arch, 
both  Suff.  4  Nov.  1539,  bequeath¬ 
ing  lands  in  Ash,  Tunstall 
and  Blaxhall  to  Margery  his 
wife  ;  ob.  s.p. 


Joan,  wife  probably  of  John 
Flete,  whom  Matthew  Good¬ 
ing  in  1519  terms  his  bro¬ 
ther  in  law,  and  who  was 
exor.  to  Maud  Gooding  in 
1510. 


Reginald  Gooding  of  Wick-= 
hamMarket;  Will  Arch. Suff. 

1  Jan.  1501,  names  William 
Gooding  his  father  and  Mat- 
thewGoodiug  his  brother  and 
gives  bequest  to  Blaxhall  ch. 


Matthew  Good-1 
ing  of  Ipswich, 
son  and  heir. 
Camden.  Liv¬ 
ing  there  1538, 
1539. 


-Joan,  dau. 
of  William 
Gardiner. 
Camden. 


Thomas  Gooding  of 
Freston,  co.  Suffolk, 
Gent..  2d  son,  Lord 
of  the  Manor  of  Kes- 
grave;  Will  P.C.C.  70 
Scott,  1 0  April  1595; 
prolA  13  Nov.  See 
Gooding  of  Freston. 


WilliamGooding  of 
Woodbridge.  Blois. 
3d  son ;  married 
Margaret  Sporly. 
Jllois.  Living  there 
1549.  SeeGooDiNG 
of  Martlesham  & 
Grundisburgh. 


- •— ! — I — I - 

Richard  Gooding, 
4th  son,  1519. 


Joan,  living  1519. 


Jane,  living  1519. 


John  Gooding, 
5th  son,  1519  ; 
to  whom  his 
father  left  a 
farm  called 
Walens  inBlax- 
liall. 


Dorothy  Gooding, 
living  1519  and 
1539  ;  probably 
the  *!  sister  Hay¬ 
ward  ”  named  in 
Tlios.  Gooding’s 
will  1595. 


Joan,  dau.  of  Robert- 
Jenner  of  Grundis¬ 
burgh,  and  sister  of 
Robert  Jenner  of 
Laxfield,  who  made 
Will  P.C.C.  48  Hud¬ 
dleston, 18  Nov.  1606; 
mar.at  St.  Margaret’s, 
Ipswich,  16  Oct, 
1552. 


-Edward  Gooding=j=CecilyBarbor,2d 


i  r 


Edward  Gooding,  s. 
and  heir.  Camden. 
Not  named  in  his 
father’s  will,  1609. 

John,  4th  son.  Cam¬ 
den.  Notnamedl609. 


of  Ipswich,  Gent., 
1540,  s.  and  h.  ; 
Will  P.C.C.  61 
Wingfield,  2  Dec. 
1609;  prob.  2  June 
1610;  to  be  bur. by 
wife  in  the  Chan- 
celof  St.  Stephen’s. 


wife,livingl599. 
Bury  School  c. 
Gooding,  Eliz. 
B.  and  A. 


Cecily,  bapt.  at 
St.  Margaret’s 
1538.  — 

Alice,  bapt.  at  St. 
Margaret's, 1541. 


George  Goodiug, 
not  named  1609. 


Mary, wife  of  Ed¬ 
ward  Jerome, 
1609. 


Robert  Gooding  of 
Wherstead,  co 
Suff  ;  Will  P.C.C. 
99  Meade  30  Aug. 
1618  ;  prob  7  Oct. 
1618  ;  devisee  of 
his  brother  Ed¬ 
ward,  1609.  See 
Goodwin  of  Wher- 


William  Gooding, 
3rd  son,  1612; 
bapt.  at  St.  Mar¬ 
garet’s,  Ipswich, 
1566  ;  not  named 
in  her  father’s  will. 


.  .  .  Crane  ,=Dorothy,3d  dau.=Antliony  Brooke, 
1st  hus-  mar.  2d  .  .  .  3d  husband,  1609, 

band.  Can-  Copping.  Cand-  son  perhaps  of 
dler.  lev.  Wife  of  Walter  Brooke  of 

Anthony  Brooke  Bury;  under  age, 
1609.  Copinger.  1588. 

Blois. 


—  TTT“ I - 

Joan,  bapt.  1547. 

John,  bapt.  1548. 

Henry,  bapt.  1552, 
had  dau.  Johan 
in  1618. 

Susan,  bapt.  155g, 
bur.  1572. 


Elizabeth,  “  dau. 
of  Edward  Good¬ 
ing  and  of  Jane 
Gener  his  wife  ; 
bapt.  Sunday,  28 
March  1563. 


— : — m — i 
Margery,  ux.  John 
Fisher  of  Ipswich. 
Harl.  MS.  6071. 

Matthew,  3rd  son  ; 
Richard,  4th  son  ; 
Henry,  5th  son  ;  and 
John,  6th  son.  Harl. 
MS.  6071. 


- 1 

Margaret,  living 
1577  and  1612, and 
apparently  young 
est  dau.  mar.  Tho¬ 
mas  Twede.  Bury 
School  c.  Gooding 
Eliz.  B  &  A. 


Matthew  Gooding,  2d= 
son,  1612  ;  bapt.  at  St. 
Margaret’s,  Ipswich, 
1564  ;  heir  at  law  to 
his  father,  1609  ;  of 
Westerfield,  co.  Suff. 
1611  ;  Admon.  Arch. 
Suff.  27  June  that  year. 


rJoan,  devisee 
of  her  father- 
in-law,  1609  ; 
Administra¬ 
trix  of  her 
husband’s  es¬ 
tate,  1611. 


J oan,  eldest 
dau.,  bapt.  at 
St.  Margaret’s, 
Ipswich,  1568  ; 
wife  of  Robert 
Mighell,  Gent., 
1609,  having 
issue. 


Anne,  '  2d 

dau. ,  wife  of 
William  Sy- 

dav,  gent., 
1609. 


Rayston, 
1st  hus¬ 
band. 


John  Rayston,  devisee  of  his  grandfather,  1609. 


=Jane,4tlidau.,= 
1577,  mar. 
Christopher 
Parker,  25 
Jan.  1587. 
Candler,  Tan¬ 
ner  MSS. 


_ i  , _ 


-Daniel  Rich 
husband  of 
Jane  Good¬ 
ing,  1609. 


Alice,  5th  dau., 
1577  ;  dead  in 
1609  ;  mar. 
John  Ryvet  and 
had  issue. 


Jane  Parker,  devisee  of  her  grandfather,  1609. 


212 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


footing  of  12Hl)ersteati. 

Matthew  Gooding  of  Goodings  in=p  Margery,  devisee— Willliam  Brandon  of  Blaxhall,  2d  lius- 
Blaxhall,  co.  Suffolk  ;  Will  Arch.  Suff.  I  and  executrix  of  band;  made  Will  Arch.  Suff.  4  Nov. 
26  March  1519,  proved  14  May  fol-  both  husbands  1539,  bequeathing  lands  in  Ash,  Tunstall 
lowing;  lands  in  Blaxhall  Tunstall  I  (1519  and  1539.)  and  Blaxhall  to  Margery  his  wife.  Ob. 
and  Ash.  I  s.p. 


Matthew  Good-=pJoan,  daugli- 
ing  of  Ipswich,  I  ter  of  Wil¬ 
son  and  heir.  I  liamGardiner. 
Camden.  Living  Camden. 
there,  15.38  and 
1559. 


ThomasGooding  of  Fres- 
ton,  co.  Suffolk,  2d  son  ; 
Lord  of  the  Manor  of 
Kesgrave;  VVillP.G.C  70 
Scott  10  April  1595.  See 
Gooding  of  Fueston. 


William  Gooding  of 
Woodbridge.  Blais. 
3d  sou;  married  Mar¬ 
garet  Pporly.  Blois 
Living  there  1 549.  See 
Gooding  of  Mahtle- 

SHAM. 


KichardGoodiug 
4th  son,  151 9. 

Joau,livingl519. 

Jane  livingl519. 


John  Gooding,  5th 
son,  1519;  to  whom 
his  father  left  a 
farm  called  Walens 
in  Blaxhall. 


Dorothy  Gooding, 
1519  &  1539  ;  pro¬ 
bably  the  “  sister 
Hayward  ”  named 
in  Thos.  Gooding’s 
will,  1595. 


Edward  Good¬ 
ing  of  Ipswich, 
Gent.,  son  and 
heir.  Camden. 
Will  P.C.C.  61 
Wingfield, 2  Dec 
1609.  See  Good] 
ino  of  Ipswich 


Anne,  da.  of- 
Stepheu  Legy  of 
Wherstead,  co. 
Suffolk.  Jlysshe. 
1st  wife  ;  the 
name  is  written 
Leagy,  1639.  and 
Legge,  1647. 


Robert  Goodingof  Wherstead ;= 
made  "Will  P.C.C,  99  Meade,  30 
Aug.  1618  ;  probate  7  Oct-  fol¬ 
lowing;  had  liousesin  Harwich, 
co.  Essex,  &  in  Ipswich  ;  M  1. 
in  Wherstead  Church ;  died 
1618,  aged  80. 


dflizabeth,  da.  of  Bartholomew 
Hall  of  Ipswich,  by  Christian,  da. 
of  Richard  Broke,  Lord  Chief 
Justice.  Blais.  Mar.  24  March 
1599  ;  She  made  Will  Arch. 
Suff.  10  March  1625  ;  prob.  25 
April  1626. 


Richard  Gooding,  evidently  dead,  1625. 


Cecily,  bapt.  1538.  Henry,  bapt. 
—  1552. 

Susan,  bapt. 
1559. 

Margery,  ux. 
John  Fisher 
of  Ipswich 


Alice,  bapt.  1541. 
Joan,  bapt.  1547. 
John,  bapt.  1548. 


ltichardGooding; 
of  Wherstead, 
Gent., eldest  son 
Bysshe.  Remark¬ 
able,  but  half- 
obliterated  M.I. 
in  Wherstead 
Church  ;  died  8 
April  1633,  ;et. 


fAune,  da. 
of  Richard 
Margetts. 
Bysshe.Ma,r. 
at  Wher¬ 
stead  1 1 
Feb.  1604. 


Stephen  Gooding  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
Gent.  ;  Will  P.C.C.  36 
Essex  3  Aug.  1647  ; 
proved  8  Feb. following; 
He  mar.  Mary,  da.  and 
coh.  of  Henry  Darby  of 
Bury.  Kebler,  Goodwin 
Chas.  I,  B  and  A  : 
ob,  s.p. 


- 1 — r~ - 

Nathaniel.  Candler. 
Not  named  in  his 
father’s  will. 

Anne,  ux.  Thomas 
Kempe,  1618  ;  a 
widow  in  1630  ;  had 
married  da.  1647. 


Anne,  married 
at  Wherstead  14 
June  1598,  to 
John  Lewes  ; 
identical,  per¬ 
haps,  with  Anne, 
the  wife  of 
Thomas  Kempt. 


John  Gooding  of-j 
Wherstead,  Gent., 
youngest  son  ;  Will  | 
Arch.  Suff.  12  Jan. 
1639  ;  prob.  12  Feb. 
1639  ;  house  in 
Harwich,  &c.  :  M.I. 
iu  WhersteadChurch ; 
Ob.  26  Jan.  1639. 


I 

_ i 


Elizabeth,  da.  and  li. 
of  ChristopherWright, 
after  the  death  of 
her  brother  John. 
Candler.  She  died 
1627,  and  with  her 
father  and  brother 
lies  buried  in  "Wher¬ 
stead  Church  with 
M.I. 


Richard  Gooding  of  Wher¬ 
stead,  Gent.  ;  bapt.  there 
1 606  ;  Will  Arch  Suff.  1 2 
Feb.  1679  ;  proved  29  Oct. 
1683.  Eutered  ped.  in 
Bysshe’sVisitatn.  of  Suffolk, 
1664  ;  d.  25  Nov.  1682, 
aged  76  ;  M.I.  in  Wherstead 
Church. 


pAnne,  da.  of  John 
I  Aldus,  Portman  of 
I  Ipswich,  who  made 
Will  P.C  0.  117 
I  Bruce,  8  Feb.  1663 
I  she  had  ten  children 
I  and  died  26  Sept 
1683  ;  M.I.  iu  Wher 
stead  Church. 


Anne  Lewis,  mar. 
at  Wherstead  15 
Nov.  1 527  to  John 
Gooding  of  Trim- 
ley  ;  her  children 
were  devisees, 
1647,  of  her  un¬ 
cle  Stephen  Good¬ 
ing. 


.  .  .  Smitli= 
of  Sutton,  co. 
Suff.  ;  1st 
husband.  Of 
Stuttou. 

Davy. 


Katherine  Gooding  bapt.= 
at  Wherstead,  1626  ; 
sole  da.  and  heiress  1 639 ; 
not  then  ait.  19  ;  devi¬ 
see  of  her  une’e  Stephen 
Gooding  1647  ;  living 
1678,  when  her  hus¬ 
band  Cyriac  Coke  made 
his  will. 


Cyriac  Coke  of  Beccles, 
Gent ,  3d  son  of  Henry 
Coke  of  Thoringtou, 
and  grandson  of  Sir  Ed¬ 
ward  Coke,  Lord  Chief 
Justice.  He  entered 
ped.  in  the  Suffolk  Visi¬ 
tation  1664. 


Richard  Gooding=f=Elizabeth,  dau.  of 


of  Wherstead, 
Gent.,  son  and 
heir  1664  ;  buried 
there  12  May 
1695. 


J  ames  Copping  of 
Petistree,  Lord  of 
the  Manor  of 
Daveloes.  Gooding 
c.  Copping.  Mit- 
ford  II,  cccix. 


Anne,  wife  of 
Charles  My- 
land,  A0  1667  ; 
“  my  dau. 
Myleham, 

1679. 


Elizabeth, 
2d  daugh¬ 
ter,  1664. 
Bysshe. 


- 1 — i 

Stephen,  2d  son 
1664. 

Nathaniel,  3d 
son,  1664  ;  bapt. 
1649. 


Henry  Coke, 
son  and  heir, 
aged  16  in 
1664, 


John  Coke,  2d 
son,  1664. 

Cyriac  Coke, 
3d  son,  1664. 


Katherine 
Coke,  only 
dau. ,1663;  de¬ 
visee  of  her 
uncle  Stephen 
Gooding  1647. 


Stephen  Gooding,  bapt.  at 
Wherstead,  1685. 


James  Gooding,  bapt.  at  Wherstead 
2  Feb.  1 685. 


Anne  Gooding,  bapt.  at 
Wherstead,  1649. 


In  Wherstead  this  yeare  1655  lives  Captaine  Richard  Goading  who  married  Anne ,  daughter  of  John  Aldus,  a  Portman  of 
Ipswich :  his  estate  is  thought  worth  between  200 1  <!'  3001  p.  ann.  Candler  MS.,  Add.  MS.  15,520.  Arms,  1664,  as  Gooding  of 
Ipswich,  with  a  crescent  for  difference. 


GOODWIN  OF  BLAXHALL, 


213 


(footling,  of  jfreston  ant  of  Xonton. 


Mathew  Gooding  of  Blaxhall,=pMargery7,  living— William  Brandon  of  Blax- 


co.  Suffolk  ;  Will  Arch.  Suff. 
26  Mar.  1519,  proved  14  May 
1519;  lands  in  Blaxhall,  Tun- 
stall  and  Ash. 


1619  and  1539, 
surviving  both 
husbands.- 


liall,  2d  husband ;  made 
Will  Arch.  Suff.  4  Nov. 
1539,  bequeathing  lands  in 
Ash  and  Tuustall. 


Matthew  Gooding 
of  Ipswich,  son  and 
heir.  Camden.  Mar. 
Joan,  dau.  of  Wm. 
Gardiner,  and  had 
issue.  See  Good¬ 
win  of  Blaxhall. 


Daniel  Godfrey  of= 
Great  Bealings,  co. 
Suff.,  Gent.  LeNeve. 
Inq.  p.m  2  Jac.  ; 
Will,  6  Oct.  1  Jas.  ; 
ob.  in  Oct.  1  Jas.  ; 
his  dau.  then  ;ct.  7 an. 


.  .  .  1  dau.  of= 
Robert  Harl- 
wyn  of  Ash- 
next- Canip- 
sey ;  his  Will 
Cur.Ep.Norw. 
13  Nov.  1558. 


-Thomas  Gooding  of  Fres-=pDorothy, 


ton,  co.  Suff.,  Gent.,  2d 
son,  Portman  of  Ipswich, 
1560;  WillP.C.C.70 Scott 
10  April  1595;  prob.  13 
Nov.  ;  Inq.  p  m  38  Eliz  , 
Lord  of  the  Manor  of 
Kesgrave. 


died  cir¬ 
ca  1589, 
living  19 
Eliz. 


William  Gooding 
of  Woodbridge. 
Minis.  3d  son  ; 
living  there  1519; 
mar.  Margaret 
Sporly.  Minis.  See 
Goodwin  ok  Maii- 

TLESHAM. 


— ;n — i — i - 

Richard  Gooding, 
4th  son,  1519. 

John  Gooding,  5th 
son,  1519. 

Joan,  151J?. 


— i — 1 

Jane,  1579. 

Dorothy,  1519, 
probably  the 
sister  Hayward 
of  Thomas 
Gooding’s  will, 
1595. 


I 

.  j _ 


A  quo  Blomfield  and  Sorrell. 


Thomasine,  dau.  and=William 
heiress  by  this  mar-  Goodwin 
riage.  LeXeve.  Mar-  2dhusbd, 
garet  Godfrey,  her  1 6  May 
dau.  and  heir  mar.  2  Jas. 
George  Clinch  of 
^Bealings,  Gent. 


r 

Robert  Gooding 
Freston,  Gent,,  s.  and 
li  .  let.  60  in  1595  ; 
Will  P.C.C.  18  Bolein 
23  Dec.  1601  ;  prob. 
10  Feb.  1602;  bur. 
at  Freston  23  Jan. 
1601. 


of=pMargaret,  dau.  of 
James  Radcliffe  of 
Norwich,  who  made 
\\  ill  1>  C  C.  21  Lang¬ 
ley  4  July  1576  :  mar. 
settlement  1  Jan.  19 
Eliz.  1577  :  sistei  to 
William  Radcliff. 


Alice,  ux.  Robert 
Barman,  and  had 
son  Thomas  Burman 
1595. 

Dorothy,  ux.  John 
Bales  of  London, 
Goldsmith,  1595. 


ThomasGood- 
ing.  2d  son, 
mar.  Chris¬ 
tian  .  .  .  and 
had  issue, 
1595. 


Mary,  ux  Samuel  Sam- 
wayes  of  Wherstead, 
co.  Suff.  Camden. 
Clerk  ;  devisee  of  her 
brother,  John  Gooding, 
1636. 


Anne,  ux.  William  Smyth  of 
Freston.  Camden.  Devisee 
1647  of  her  sister  Gael!  Was 
wife  of  John  Pickmere  of  Lon¬ 
don  in  1601,  when  her  brother 
Thos.  Gooding  made  his  will. 


Ursula,  young 
and  unmarried 
1601  ;  mar.  at 
Freston  26  April 
1625  to  Jeffrey 
Blosse. 


Margaret,  ux.  .  .  .  Gaell ;  made 
will  as  Margaret  Gaell  of  Hadleigh, 
co.  Suff.,  widow,  22  Dec.  1647,P.C,C. 
165  Essex  naming  sister  Smyth  and 
brother-in-law  Samwayes.  Wife  of 
ThomasTookerof  London.  Canulen. 


Catherine,  ux.Tliom. 
Hunt  of  London. 
Camden.  Wife  of 
.  .  .  Tooker  of  Lon¬ 
don.  ltarl.  MS. 
1560. 


Thomas  Gooding  of  Freston.  = 
son  and  heir.  Camden  Gent- ; 
had  his  grandfather’s  lands  in 
Martlesham  ;  he  made  Will 
Arch.  Suff.  11  Aug.  1624  ; 
prob.  1 4  Oct. ;  Inq.  p.m.  1  Car  ; 
Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Freston ; 
died  there  12  Aug.  1624.  Of 
Ipswich  in  Suff.,  Gent.,  1612. 
Camden. 


Mary,  da.  and  li.  of  Thomas 
Burlz  of  Debden,  co.  Suff.,  Esq., 
by7  his  1st  wife  Dorothy,  da.  of 
Wm.  Cresswell  of  Prittlewell, 
co.  Essex.  Thos.  Burlz  made 
Will  P.C.C  13  Hele  :  proved  30 
Jan.  1625,  The  Will  of  Jermyn 
Burlz,  his  son,  is  dated  1641. 
Mary  Gooding  m.  2ndly  John 
Sherwood,  M.D. 


Robert  John  Gooding,  3d  son,  citizen1 

Gooding,  and  haberdasher  of  London;  Will 

2d  son,  P.C.C.  41  Goare  30  Dec.  1636  ; 

died  s.p.  proved  7  March  1636-7  ;  names 

Marl.  his  five  sons  in  law,  his  sisters 

MS. 1476.  Gaell,  Samwayes  and  Smith  and 
his  lands  in  Ipswich  and  in  Dork- 
iug,  co.  Surrey.  Entered  ped. 
in  the  London  Visitatn.  1634. 
Marl.  MS.  1476. 


-Anne,  dau.  of  Walter 
Browne  of  Beechwood 
Castle  in  Surrey.  Camden. 
Of  Dorking,  co.  Surrey. 
Bari.  MS.  1476.  The  will 
of  her  brother,  Thomas 
Brown,  Poor  Knight  of 
Windsor, P.C.C.  57  Wind¬ 
sor,  is  dated  8  March 
1614. 


rn - 

Thomas  Good¬ 
ing,  sou  &  heir, 
set,  4,  1612. 
Camden.  Bap.  at 
Freston,  1607  ; 
bur.  there  1622. 
Davy. 

Jermyn  Good¬ 
ing,!  ap.at  Fres¬ 
ton,  16  20.  Davy. 


Robert  Gooding, 
s.  andh.,  set.  12, 
7  May  1625  ; 
sold  the  Manor 
of  Freston  to 
John  Havers, 
Esq..  1635.  Ha¬ 
vers  c.  Goodin y, 
Chas.  I,  B  &  A  ; 
was  then  of 
Bramford 


Mary,  set.  6,  a°  1612, 
Camden.  Wife  of 
Richard  Nightingale 
of  Ipswich,  Gent., 
1 635  ;  devisee  of  her 
uncle  Jermyn  Burlz 
in  1641.  Her  Will 
P.C.C.  32  Rivers  19 
June  1644  ;  names 
*‘  my  sister  Rafe.” 


Margaret, 
set.  8  in 
1612. 
Camden. 

Jane.  set. 
3.  1612. 
Camden. 


! — I - 

John  Gooding, 
s.  and  1l,  1634. 
Bari.  MS.  1476 
Named  in  his 
father’s  will. 

Robert  Gooding, 
2d  son,  1634 ; 
named  in  his 
father's  will. 


Mary,  eld¬ 
est  dau., 
wife  of  John 
Tirrell  of 
Loudon, 
1634.  Bari. 
MS.  1476. 


Margaret,  2d 
dau.  married 
to  Francis 
West  of  Lon¬ 
don,  whom 
her  father 
appointed 
supervisor  of 
his  will,  1636. 


- 1 

Elizabeth, 
wife  to  Hen¬ 
ry  St.  John 
of  London, 
Merchant, 
1634.  Bari. 
MS.  1476. 


Samuel  Tirrell. 
Bari  MS.  1476. 


Anne  Tirrell,  eldest 
dau.  1634. 


.  .  .  Tirrell,  2d 
dau.  1634. 


Mary’  Tirrell,  3d 
dau.  1634. 


John  West,  Ann  West,  eld.  Elizabeth,  2d 
1634.  dau.,  1634.  dau.  1634. 


The  name  is  Godinge  or  Goodinge,  <£•  not  Goodwin,  as  he  tonteth,  as  appeireth  in  the  Visitation  of  Suff:  made  1512,  fo.  J/,  So  in 
the  original  Visitation  of  London,  1634.  Arms,  as  of  Gooding  of  Ipswich,  with  a  crescent  for  difference. 


214 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


<&oot>tom  of  jHartlesfjam. 


Matthew  Gooding  of  Blaxhall,  co.  Suffolk  ;= 
Will  Arch.  Suff.  26  March  1519,  proved  14 
May  following  ;  lands  in  Tunstall  and  Ash. 


Matthew  Gooding,  son 
and  heir.  See  Good¬ 
ing  of  Ipswich. 


Thomas  Gooding  of  Freston, 
Gent.,  2d  son;  ob.  1595. 
See  Gooding  of  Freston, 


=Margerv,  devisee  and— William  Brandon  of  Blaxhall,  2d  husband  ; 
executrix  of  both  made  Will  Arch.  Suff.  4  Nov.  1539,  be- 
her  husbands.  queathing  his  lands  to  his  wife. 

T" 


■William  Gooding,  3d=j=Margaret,  dau.  of  ... 
son.  Harl.  MS.  1560.  I  Sporle.  Hurl.  MS. 
Of  Woodbridge.  Blois.  \  1560.  Of  Sporly'.  Blois. 


Richard  Gooding,  4th  son. 
John  Gooding,  5th  son. 


Margaret  Castle,  re-=William  Gooding  or-j-Joan,  dau. 

Sawer  of 
Harl.  MS. 
Gedgrave, 


lict  of  Lane,  and  aunt 
by  marriage  to  John 
Goodingof  EastBerg- 
holt;  m.  at  Wood- 
bridge  4  Feb.  1576-7. 
See  Barker  c.  Good  win, 
Jas.  I,  B  &  A.  She 
made  WillArch.  Suff. 
8  Ap.  1596. 


Goodwin  of  Hasketon, 
co.  Suffolk,  Gent.,  son 
and  heir.  Harl.  MS. 
1476.  Was  of  Ren- 
dlesham,  co.  Suff.,  in 
1595-6,  when  Mar¬ 
garet  his  wife  and  Thos. 
Goodinghis  uncle  made 
their  wills. 


of  John 
Orford. 
1560.  Of 
Harl.  MS. 


Elizabeth, =Elizabeth, 1st  wife,  ^George  Gooding  of= 


1476,  who  made 
will  in  1566;  Roger 
Sawder  her  brother 
made  will  1579  ;  she 
was  mar.  at  Wood- 
bridge  28  July  1560, 


relict  of  John 
Currye,  who 
died  22  Ap¬ 
ril  1598,  3d 
wife. 


da.  iff  John  Smith 
of  Woodbridge. 
Blais.  Mar.  to 
George  Goodwin 
at  Woodbridge 
26  Jan.  1567  ; 
buried  3  April 
1581. 


See 


Grundisburgh,  2d 
son.  Harl.  MS. 
1566.  Inq.  p.  m. 
7  Jac.  Admon. 
P.C.C.  1  March 
1608  ;  bur.  at 
Woodbridge  16 
Jan.  1608-9. 


A 

Goodwin 


i  i  i 
Joan, Jane 
&Dorothy, 
1519. 

:Mirabell,2d 
wife.da  u  o 
WmSmyth 
of  Wood- 
bridge,  who 
made  will 
18  July 
1585P.C.C. 
34  Windsor. 


OF 


A 

Grundisburgh. 


Faith,  wife  of  Rich¬ 
ard  Barker  of  Wor- 
mingford,  co.  Essex, 
yeoman  ;  father  of 
Richard  Barker  of 
Stoke  by  Nayland  1616. 
Barker  c.  Goodwin. 


William  Gooding  or  Goodwin  of  Lon-= 
don,  eldest  son,  1634.  Harl.  MS. 
1476.  Inq.  p.m.  15  Chas.  ;  died  at 
Alderton,  co.  Suffoik,  10  Sept.  15 
Chas.,  s.p. ;  lands  to  John  Gooding, 
his  brother  and  heir  ;  Lord  of  the 
Manor  of  Martlesham,  co.  Suff. 


-Mary,  dau.  of  Richard 
Hovell  of  Hillingdon,  co. 
Norff.,  Esq.,  who  made 
Will  P.C.C.  16  Fenner, 
proved  12  Feb.  1611  ;  she 
was  mar.  20  June  6  Jas., 
and  survived  husband. 


John  Gooding  of  Ipswich, =j=Mary,  dau.  of  Henry 
.  w;n  r>  n  n  qq  „r  tv _ 


Gent.;  Will  P.C.C. 33  Rivers 
20  April  1644  ;  prob.  18  Feb. 
1644-5  ;  brother  and  heir 
to  Wm.  Gooding  15  Car. 
and  then  let.  60  ;  lands  in 
Martlesham,  Hasketon,  &c. 


William  Gooding  of-pMargery,  one  off =John  Crosse 


Hasketon,  Esq.;  Will 
P.C.C.  55  Bruce,  7 
Nov.  1663,  proved 
12  May  1664  ;  Lord 
of  the  Manor  of  Mar¬ 
tlesham,  M.I.  in  Has¬ 
keton  Church. 


William  Goodwin, 
eldest  son,  1614. 
Blois.  Ob. s.p. .John 
Goodwin  of  Martle¬ 
sham,  his  brother, 
being  heir  ;  d.  at 
Smyrna,  1664. 


the  two  das.  and 
coheirs  of  Win. 
Raleigh  of  Nor¬ 
folk,  Gent.  Her 
sister  married 
Henry  Stebbing. 
Candler. 


of  Little 
Bealings, 
Gent.,  2d 
husband. 
Davy. 


Bridget,  ux. 
Daniel  Clench 
of  Burgh,  co. 
Suff.,  Gent., 
who  entered 
pedigree  in  ; 
Bysshe’s  Visita¬ 
tion,  1664. 


Temperance,  ux. 
Robert  Spar- 
rowe  of  Wick- 
hambrook,  1664. 
Temperance  her 
da.  and  h.  mar. 
Devereux  Ed¬ 
gar,  Esq. 


Robert  Gooding 
of  Hollesley,  co. 
Suffolk,  when 
Bysshe  made 
his  Visitation, 
1664.  See  ped. 
of  that  year, 
Coll,  of  Arms. 


:Mary,  da.  and  coh. 
of  William  Fox  of 
Hollesley,  Gent.  ; 
her  2d  husband  was 
Robt.  Sterling  of 
Charsfield,  whose 
Will  P.C.C.  33  Lloyd 
is  dated  1685. 


Edgar  of  Denning- 
ton,co.  Suff.,  by  Brid¬ 
get,  d.  and  coh.  of 
Miles  Docker ;  sister 
of  Miles  Edgar  of 
Cranley  Hall  in  Eye. 

— 1 
John 
Gooding, 
2d  son, 
1644. 


Mary  Goodwin,  devisee  of  her  grandfather 
Fox,  1675,  in  Will  P.C.C.  141  King  ;  mar. 
Thos.  Knights  of  Woodbridge.  Hawes’  MS. 


Temperance,  mar.  Rich . 
Weltou,  D.D.,  Rector 
of  Whitechapel.  Hawes. 


T 


- ! - - - 

Robert  Goodwin, 
3d  son,  died  at 
Smyrna,  1665- 


r- 


Bassingbourne  Goodwin  of 
London,  Merchant  ;  had  by 
Katherine,  his  wife. 

_ T 


Benjamin  ob.  1681,  set.  3 
M.I.  at  Martlesham. 


Katherine  Goodwin 
of  Ipswich,  spinster. 


Thomas  Good¬ 
win,  living  1663. 

Mary,  eldest  da. 

Margaret.  Blois. 


Robert  Goodwin,  devisee  of  his  grand¬ 
father  Fox,  1676.  Executor  to  Robert 
Stirling,  1685.  Ob.  s.p.  Hawes’  MS. 
- 1 

Sarah,  4  th  da.  Blois. 
3d  wife  of  Peter 
Alderman  of  Had- 
leigh,  who  entered 
ped.  in  the  Suffolk 
Visitation,  1664  ; 
mar.  23  May  1684. 


Elizabeth,  2d 
da.  HI  iis.  Wife 
of  Mr,  Wil¬ 
liam  Red¬ 
grave  of  Deb- 
euham,  1696. 


Susan,  3d  dau.  Blois. 
mar.  Robert  Glover  of 
Shottisham,  Gent.,  who 
calls  John  Goodwin  of 
Martlesham.  brother  in 
his  will  28  Feb.  1681 ; 
M.I.,  Martlesham  Ch. 


Hannah,  dau.= 
and  coh  of  Fre¬ 
derick  Scott  of 
Leiston,  Gent., 
2d  wife;  she  died 
1691  ;  M.I.  in 
Martlesham 
Chancel. 


John  Goodwin  of  Martlesham, =p Elizabeth,  da.  and  coh. 
Gent.;  Will  P.C.C.  190  Noel,  I  of  John  Butcher  of 


22  Jan.  1696,  proved  16  May 
1700  ;  M.I.  in  Martlesham  Chan¬ 
cel.  His  firs  c  wife  Mary  Dawes, 
widow,  dau.  of  the  Rev.  John 
Glover,  Rector  of  Shottesham, 
died  s.p.  in  1680. 


Ipswich,  Physician,  3d 
wife  ;  jointure  dated  28 
Feb.  1681  ;  had  two 
sons  and  survived  her 
husband  ;  bur.  at  Mar- 
i  tlesham,  1736. 


Henry  Goodwin  off 
Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
Esq.,  younger  son; 
Will  P.C.C.  114 
Farrant  1724  ; 
prob.  9  May  1727. 
M.I.  in  St.  James’ 
churchyard. 


-Anne  Goodwin  of 
BurySt.Edmunds, 
widow  ;  made 
Will  P.C.C.  227 
Ducie,  22  Dec. 
1733  ;  prob.  7  Nov. 
1735. 


Hannah  Goodwin, 
living  1696;  devi¬ 
see  of  her  uncle, 
Mr-MatthewScott. 


— --j - 

Elizabeth  Good- 
wyn,  under  age, 
1696  ;  w.  of  Ed¬ 
ward  Avery,  Gent., 
1742. 


JohnGoodwin  of  Martlesham  and= 
Grundisburgh, Gent. ;  Will  P.C  C. 
161  Boycott,  17  March  1742, 
proved  2  May  1743;  M.I.  in  Mar¬ 
tlesham  chancel.  Ob.  1742, let. 48. 


= M ary,  da.  and 
coh.  of  Thomas 
Knights  :  Will  17 
Nov.  1766,  P.C.C. 
142  Bargrave. 


- 1  _ 

William  Goodwin, 
bapt,  at  Martlesham, 
15  July  1697  ;  bur. 
there  19  Sept.  1721  ; 
ob  cock 


Anne,  sole  da  .and  heir, 
mar.  Mr.  Justice  Lee, 
and  had  issue,  1733, 
a  sou,  William  Lee. 


John  Goodwin  of  Wood- 
bridge,  Esq.  ;  Will  Arch. 
Suff.  24  July  1755,  proved 
10  Feb.  1758  ;  Lord  of 
the  Manor  of  Martlesham 
=Grace  Trammel,  1743. 


Mary,  wife  of 
JamesTye,1755, 
and  after  of 
Gregory  Chas. 
liissowe.  She 
ob.  1789. 


Rev.  Thos.  Goodwin, 
Rector  of  Martle¬ 
sham  ;  M.I.  there  to 
him  and  Frances  his 
wife  ;  heir  to  his 
brother  John,  1753. 


Elizabeth,  b. 

1 736,  mar.  Wm. 
May  hew  of 
Woodbridge, 
Gent. 


Robert 
Goodwin  of 
Grundis¬ 
burgh,  dead 
1782. 


William  Goodwin 
of  Woodbridge;  ob. 
1798;  M.I.  at  Mar¬ 
tlesham;  Anne,  his 
d.  and  coh.  in. Rev. 
Chas.  Sharpe. 


Chester  George  Clarke  Doughty -p  Catherine,  dau.  of 
Doughty',  of  Theberton  Hall,  Vicar  Ezekiel  Revett  of 
R.N.,  ob.  of  Hoxne,  Rector  of  Den-  Hoxne,  Esq.  ;  died 
cool.  ham  and  Martlesham.  -4/1804. 


Mary  Ann  Doughty,  mar. 

1, Gerrad  Montague,  Esq. ; 

2,  Rev.  George  Lucas, 
Rector  of  Catfield,  Norff. 


Anne,  youngest  da. 
mar.  Geoi  ge  Doughty 
Esq.,  High  Sheriff  of 
Suffolk,  1793.  Shed 
12  May'  1829,  jet.  89, 

_ T 

Harriet  Doughty,  b.  18^=Aldous  Charles  Arnold, 


July  1769  ;  d.  17  May 
1796  ;  bur.  in  Lowestoft 
Church. 


Esq.,  R.N.  ;  b.  1763;  mar, 
1791  ;  d.  1809  ;  buried  in 
-q/Lowestoft  Church. 


GOODWIN  OF  BLAXIIALL. 


215 


<£ootitng  of  <£>nml)tsburgl). 


Matthew  Gooding  of  Blaxhall,  co.  Suffolk  ;  Will1 
Arch.  Suff.  26  March  1519,  proved  14  May 
following  ;  lauds  in  Blaxhall,  Tunstall  and  Ash. 


=M argery,  living  1519  and=William  Brandon  of  Blaxhall,  2d  husband  ;  made  Will 
1539,  and  executrix  to  both  Arch.  Suff.  4  Nov.  1539,  bequeathing  lauds  in  Ash, 
her  husbands.  Tunstall  and  Blaxhall  to  Margery  his  wife.  He  ob,  s.p. 


Matthew  Gooding  of 
Ipswich,  son  &  heir. 
Camden.  Mar.  Joan, 
dau.  of  Wm.  Gar¬ 
diner,  and  had  issue. 
See  Goodwin  of 
Blaxhall. 


Thomas  Gooding  of  Fres- 
ton,  Gent.,  2d  son.  Cam¬ 
den.  Lord  of  the  Manor 
of  Kesgrave  ;  Will  P.C.C. 
70  Scott  10  April  1575  ; 
had  issue.  See  Goodwin 
of  Freston. 


WilliamGood-=j=Margaret, 
ing,  3d  son.  dau.  of  .. 


Harl.  MS. 
1560.  Of 
Woodbridge. 
Bluis. 


Sporle. 
Bari.  MS. 
1560.  Spor- 
1  ly.  Blois. 


- 1 — r  - - — 

RichardGood- 
ing,  4th  son, 
1519. 

JohnGooding, 
5th  son,  1519. 


i  i 

Joan,  1519, 
Jaue,  1519. 


Dorothy  Gooding, 
living  1519  and 
1539  ;  probably 
the  “  sister  Hay¬ 
ward  ”  named  in 
Thos.  Gooding’s 
wiU,  1595. 


Elizabeth,  3d  wife,  relict 
of  John  Ourrye,  whoselnq. 
p.m.  was  taken  43Eliz. ;  in 
1  i  is  will  dated  2  Jan .  4  0  Eliz. 
he  leaves  his  wife  lauds  in 
Ipswich  and  Tuddenliam 
until  son  be  of  age. 


^Elizabeth,  1st  wife,=j=George  Gooding  of  Wood-= 
dau.  of  John  Smyth  1  bridge,  and  afterwards  of 


of  Woodbridge. 
Blois.  Mar.  there 


Grundisburgh,  co.  Suff.,  2d 
son.  Harl.  MS.  1560.  Inq. 


to  George  Gooding  i  p.m.  7  Jas.  Admon.  P.C.O.  1 


26  Jan.  1567  ;  bur. 
3  April  1581. 


March  1608  ;  bur.  at  Wood- 
bridge  16  Jan.  1608. 


j=Myrabell,  2d  wife,  dau.  of 
|  William  Smyth  of  Wood- 
i  bridge,  Merchant,  who  made 
Will  P.C.C.  34  Windsor  18 
July  1585  ;  mar.  at  Wood- 
bridge  9  Oct.  1581  ;  bur. 
there  1594. 


William  Gooding  of 
Hasketon,  Gent.,  son 
and  heir.  Bari.  MS. 
1476.  Mar. JoanSawer, 
and  had  issue  See 
Gooding  of  Martle- 
sham. 


John  Curry e, 
son  and  heir, 
a:t.  7,  1598. 


Margaret  Gooding, 
bapt  at  Wood- 
bridge,  1575. 

Susan  Gooding, 
bapt.  at  Wood- 
bridge,  1579. 


- i - 

George  Gooding  of; 
Grundisburgh,  Gent.,  s. 
and  h.,  ait.  20,  6  Jas.  ; 
W  ill  Arch.  Suff  17  Apr. 
1  ei  3  7 ,  proved  5  Sept. 
1640;  LordoftheManor 
of  Dodnash  al's  Falken- 
ham. 


-Alice,  da.  of  Tobias 
Blosse,  Portman  of  Ips¬ 
wich,  who  made  Will 
P.C.C.  24  St.  John, 
proved  11  Feb.  1630. 
She  renupt.  ...  Hondon 
of  co.  Herts.  Blois. 


- 1 - 

Temperance, 
bapt.atWood- 
bridge,  1581  ; 
mar.  Robert 
Stebbing  of 
Monewden. 
Candler. 


Agnes,  bapt.  at 
Woodbridge,  1584; 
wife  of  Robert 
Mowling  of  Brun- 
dish,  1608  ;  her 
father’s  adminis¬ 
tratrix. 


- '  l  l 

William,  bapt.  at 
Woodbridge,  1587. 

John,  b.  at  Wood- 
bridge,  1593. 

Myrabell,  bapt. 
1582,  bur.  1583. 


L 


Deborah  living  1637. 
Lydia,  living  1637. 
Martha,  living  1637. 
Dorcas,  living  1637. 


Elizabeth, 
wife  of 
JolmSteff, 
1653. 


George  Gooding  of: 
Falkenham,  co.  Suff., 
Gent  ;  Will  P.C.C. 
332  Berkeley  12  July 
1 656,  proved  29  Sept, 
same  year.  Lord  of 
the  Manor  of  Dodnes 
al’s  Falkenham, 


Alartha,  dau.  and  coh.  of 
Nathaniel  Atherold  of  Has¬ 
keton,  Gent.,  who  made 
Will  P.C.C.  500  Alehin  12 
Sept.  1653.  Her  Will  Arch. 
Suff.  12  Mar.  1697,  was 
proved  20  Mar.  1698,  she  be- 
ingthen  of  Hasketon, widow. 


t — r 


TT-r*i 


Tobyas  Gooding  of  Thomas  Gooding,  John,  1637. 


heir  to  his  brother 
Tobyas  Gooding, 
1653. 


Gt.  Healings, Gent.' 

Will  P.C.C.  553 
Aylett  27  May 
1653,  prob.  9  Jan. 

1654;  ob. s.p.  Tho¬ 
mas  Gooding,  his  living  1637, 
brother,  to  be  heir. 


James. 1637 
Mary,  1637. 


Samuel  Gooding,  — 

Frances, 
1637. 


George  Gooding.  Gent.,  son  and=j=Mrs.  Mary  Warne,  mar. 


heir ;  Lord  of  the  Manor 
Dodnes  in  Falkenham. 


of 


at  Hasketon,  22  Jan. 
1682. 


Nathaniel  Gooding  of  Hasketon,  Gent.  ;  Will  Areh.= 
Suff.  27  Aug.  1686,  prob.  2  April  1687  ;  lands  to  his 
mother  for  life,  then  to  right  heirs. 


I 


Elizabeth,  sole  execu¬ 
trix  to  her  husband, 
1686. 


Mary,  granddaughter  and  devisee 
of  Martha  Gooding,  1697  ;  bapt. 
at  Hasketon  26  May  1684. 


Elizabeth,  granddaughter  and  devisee 
of  Martha  Gooding,  1697  ;  bapt.  at 
Hasketon  9  Jan.  1686. 


By  liis  Inquisition  post  mortem,  7  James,  I.  77,  taken  at  Ipswich,  George  Gooding  was  found  to  have  been  seized  of  a 
messuage  and  divers  lands  in  Kirkton,  held  of  Anne,  the  Queen  Consort  of  James  the  First,  as  of  her  manor  of  W  altou  cum 
Trimley  and  Felixstowe  Priory,  and  also  of  lauds  in  Clopton  held  of  Sir  John  Rouse,  Knt.,  as  of  his  Manor  of  Kingshall  in 
Clopton.  He  died  at  Grundisburgh  14  January,  6  James  ;  George  Gooding,  his  son  and  heir,  being  twenty  years  of  age. 

Most  of  the  family  pictures  and  other  heirlooms  of  the  Goodwins  of  Martlesham,  Ac.  (including  a  coat  of  arms  beautifulh 
worked  in  silk  by  Mary  Edgar  wife  of  John  Goodwin  of  Hasketon),  are  now  in  the  possession  of  Mrs.  Doughty  of  Lowestoft,  widow 
of  Admiral  Fredk.  Proby  Doughty,  and  eldest  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Richard  Aldous  Arnold,  Rector  of  Ellough,  herself  a  descendant 
of  the  Goodwin  family. 


#oot>\um  of  f&otbtng. 


^rmartal  IB^arings. 

Amongst  the  insignia  of  the  various  families  of  Goodwin  depicted  in  the  volume  known  as 
E.D.N.,  56,  in  the  College  of  Arms,  is  a  somewhat  remarkable  shield,  which  may  be  described  as 
Argent,  a  pale  gules  ;  in  chief  and  in  base  a  plate  between  two  fleurs  de  lys,  and  in  fess  a  delu¬ 
de  lys  between  two  plates,  all  counterchanged.  The  accompanying  Crest  is  “a  mallard  tree  vert  ; 
on  either  side  a  cony  argent  eating  the  leaves  thereof.  It  is  not  said  to  what  Goodwins  these 
arms  were  assigned,  and  no  record  of  the  grant  has  been  officially  preserved  by  the  heralds.  A 
similar  reticence  is  observed  by  Add.  MS.  26,702,  in  the  British  Museum,  which  seems  to  be  a  copy 
of  E.D.N.  56.  But  in  Harleian  MS.  1422,  an  old  and  faded  collection  of  “Grants  by  Divers  Kings 
of  Arms  tricked  by  John  Gough,”  this  shield  and  crest  are  said  to  have  been  given  to  “  Wilim 
Goodwin  of  Booking  in  com  Essex  p  Wrioth.  G.  36.  H.  8.”  A  note  has  been  appended,  apparently 
in  another  hand,  “  ffile  p  Sr  Xpof  Barkl  G.,”  together  with  an  indication  that  the  leaves  which 
the  rabbits  are  eating  are  intended  for  “  mallows.” 

There  were  many  Goodwins  of  Booking  in  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  but  their 
exact  relationship  has  never  been  determined.  They  made  but  few  wills  and  the  earlier  Booking 
registers  and  manor  books  are  alike  missing.  It  is  not  improbable  that  the  Goodwins  of  Hartford 
in  Connecticut  come  of  the  same  stock.  Many  valuable  evidences  connected  with  the  Booking 
Goodwins,  including  ample  abstracts  of  the  wills  of  Sir  Thomas  Pope,  1556,  and  Anne  Rlunt,  1594, 
are  printed  in  the  “  Report  on  English  Investigations,”  contributed  by  Mr.  Henry  F.  Waters  to  the 
history  of  this  family.1  The  name  is  usually  written  “Goodwin,”  but  John  Peppys,  uncle  of 
William  Goodwin  of  Bermondsey,  in  making  his  will  in  1551,  refers  to  his  “sister  Goodinge”  and 
her  children,  and  describes  his  nephew  as  William  Godinge  als  Goodwyn. 


Jmjtristtum  on  tlj£  toatlj  of  Militant  ©oobtttg. 

Essex.  Inquisitio  capta  apud  Chelmesforde  nono  die  Augusti  annis  Regno?  Philippi  A  Marie 
dei  gra  Angl  Ac.  Regis  A  Regine  secundo  et  tertio  coram  Johe  Swallowe  Armig  Escaetore  post 
mortem  Willi  Goodwyn  Armigi  p  sacrament  Richi  Sandforde  &c.  qui  dicunt  qd  dcus  Wilis  Goodwyn 
die  quo  obijt  fuit  seitus  de  Mane?  de  Bonnes  in  Bokkyng  in  com  jklco  ac  de  cei'tis  pastur  in  Bok- 
kyng  &  Gosfylde  vocat  Knyghts  ffelde  Myddlefeld  Netherfelde  &  Bradfelde.  Et  de  vno  tent  in 
Bokkyng  vocat  Lyons  cu  viginti  acris  ter?,  duodecim  acr  ter?  in  Bokkyng  vocat  Lyttle  Lyons  nup 
in  ten  lira  Alicie  Spurge  vidue,  Ac. ,  &c.  Et  de  tehta  in  Bokkyne  Eud,  Ac.,  Ac.,  tefita  in  Branktrye, 


The  Goodwins  of  Hartford,  Connecticut,  pp.  56-74, 


GOODWIN  OF  BOOKING. 


217 


Ac.,  in  pcelle  prati  vocat  Hosterfords  Hoppes  in  Stysted  ac  vnius  tent  vocat  Hawkyns  in  ffelsted  ac 
de  terris  iacen  in  Wryttell  ac  de  quinquaginta  quinqj  acf  terr  mariscalis  vocat  Inmarshe  A  qnadra- 
ginta  acr  terr  marisc  vocat  Outmarshe  in  Mondon  in  eodem  com,  Ac.,  etc.  Et  Ylterius  j ura tores 
j^dcl  dicunt  qd  dcus  Wills  Goodwyne  vicesimo  fcio  die  Nouembris  anno  dni  mitlmo  quingentesimo  & 
quinquagesimo  quarto  fecit  vltima  voluntatem  in  scriptis  Anglic  verbis  hie  postea  seqintqj.  I  William 
Goodwyn  of  the  pyshe  of  Saint  Mary  Magdalen  in  Bermondsey  in  the  countye  of  Surf  beyng  syke 
in  body  but  hole  in  mynd  A  of  pfect  memory,  thanks  be  to  god,  do  make  this  my  last  will  & 
testament  in  man!  A  forme  folowyng :  First  I  bequeyth  my  soule  vnto  almyghty  god  my  maker  & 
redemer  A  my  body  to  the  earth  to  be  buried  in  the  pyshe  churche  abovenamed.  Item  1  geve 
and  bequeythe  all  my  goods  lands  and  tenements  vnto  my  wiff  Elyn  Goodwyn  whom  I  also  will 
name  A  appoynte  to  be  my  sole  executrix,  requiryng  her  for  her  owne  dychavge  A  my  also  as  she 
will  answere  befor  god  that  she  se  my  chyldren  to  be  vertucusly  broght  vpp,  pvydyng  alway  so  for 
them  as  becometh  a  good  mother  in  such  case  to  doo  for  her  chyldren.  Wrytten  the  xxiijlh  day  of 
Nouebr  in  the  yere  of  our  lord  god  a  thousand  fyve  hundred  fyftye  A  fower  in  the  {Isence  of  these 
psons,  Raffe  dodmere,  John  lewysse  clerke,  Arthur  yelderd,  Symon  medcalfe,  Wyllyam  bawdwyn,  Mystres 
An  blounte,  Mystres  ffysher,  put  p  eadem  voluntatem  in  eviden  Juratof  jfdcis  ostensa  plene  liquet. 
Et  Ylterius  Juaratores  jfdci  dicunt  qd  jidem  Maner  de  Bownes  Ac.  tenentur  in  socagis  de  Rog’o 
Wentworth  armi§o  ut  de  manor  suo  de  bokkyng.  Et  qd  doih  messiagu  siue  tenth  iacen  apud 
Bokkyng  ende  voc  Goodwyn  place  Ac.  tenentur  de  pfato  Ro^o  Wentworth  vt  de  manor  suo  de 
Bokkyng.  Et  qd  diet  terr  tenta  A  cetera  hereditamenta  in  Wryttell  tenentur  de  dno  Rege  A  dna 
Regina  in  liBo  socagio  vt  de  man  io  de  Staunton  lacye  in  com  Salop.  Et  qd  dca  terr  tenta  & 
cetera  in  Mondon  tenentur  de  duo  Rege  A  dna  Regina  vt  de  main  io  suo  de  Mondon.  Et  vlterius 
Juratof  dicunt  qd  dcus  Wifi ms  Goodwyn  obijt  vltimo  die  Nouembris  vltimo  preterito.  Et  qd 
Thomas  Goodwyn  est  euis  filius  et  heres  propinquior  et  fuit  etat  octo  annof  vndecimo  die  Decembris 
vltimo.  Esch.  2  A  3  P.  &  M.,  1,  35. 

The  will  of  William  Goodwin,  as  entered  in  the  Prerogative  Court  (P.C.C.  1G  More)  differs 
somewhat  in  its  wording  from  that  recorded  in  the  Inquisition.  “  Sicke  in  bodye  and  abyding 
the  marcie  of  God  to  take  me  forthe  of  this  myserable  world  when  his  will  shalbe,  but  yet  pyfte 
and  whole  of  memory,  I  make  and  ordeyne  this  my  last  will.  I  bequeath  all  my  landes  and 
tenements,  gooddes  and  cattalle  to  my  wife  and  to  my  children  together  during  their  nonage  and 
minoritie  for  and  to  theducacyon  of  and  bringing  vp  of  them,  my  said  children,  in  vertue  and 
learnynge,”  Ac.  It  was  proved,  the  Archiepiscopal  See  being  vacant,  by  the  oath  of  John  Goodman, 
the  executrix’s  attorney  11  Dec.  1554. 


«U  of  fnljtt  JKacIjell,  1574. 

The  twentieth  daie  of  Marche  1574  I  John  Machell  of  the  parrisli  of  Sainte  Mary  Magdalene 
in  Bermondseye  in  the  countie  of  Surrey  gentilman  doo  make  my  pnt  will.  All  my  londes  and 
tents,  lodgings,  chambers,  stables  and  gardeins  in  Warwick  Ynne  in  the  teanure  of  one  Robert 
Wengfeilde  Esquer  and  also  tenement  and  warehouse  in  the  teanure  of  one  Goodwyn,  one  other  tent 
somtimes  in  the  occupacon  of  doctour  Drury,  Ac.,  &c ,  vnto  Ellen  Machell  my  wife,  her  lieires  and 
assignes  for  euermore.  To  my  said  wife  twenty  eight  acres  of  londe  meadowe  and  pasture  woods 
and  underwoods  in  Barmondseye.  My  leace  of  Barmondseye  called  the  newe  Estegate  howse,  somtimes 
belonging  to  the  late  dissolved  monasterye  of  Barmondsey,  which  I  had  in  the  riglite  of  my  saide 

2  E 


218 


SUFFOLK  MANORTAL  FAMILIES 


wife  by  force  of  a  leace  made  vnto  her  by  Sir  Thomas  Pope  deceased  and  Dame  Elizabeth 
his  wife,  as  also  one  other  leace  of  the  Rectory  of  Denforde  in  the  countie  of  Northampton, 
I  will  and  bequeath  to  the  saide  Ellin  my  wife.  William  Charnock  gentilman  and  Alice  his 
Avife,  sister  of  me  the  said  .John  Machell,  to  assure  said  twentie  eight  acres  in  Barmondsey 
to  the  saide  Ellin.  Also  I  give  to  the  said  Ellin  my  wife  all  other  my  leaces,  goods, 
money,  plate  and  J  veils.  To  my  ladie  Sidnam,  my  sister  misteris  Anne  Blvnte,  to  Mr  Edwarde 
Meggs,  to  my  saide  brother  Witt  in  Charnock  and  to  my  sister  Alice  his  wife,  to  eurie  of 
them  flue  persons  a  gemewe  of  golde  of  tenne  shillings  a  peece  in  valve  and  to  everie  of  them  a 
blacke  gowne.  I  bequeath  to  Walter  Goodwyn  and  to  Thoms  Pope  Goodwye  my  wife’s  sonnes  to 
either  of  them  a  moorning  coate  and  a  pair  of  moorning  gaskens.  I  bequeth  to  Joane  ffelton  and 
ffrauncs  ffelton  my  wife’s  daughters  to  either  of  them  a  morning  gowne.  And  I  ordein  the  saide 
Ellen,  my  welbeloued  wife,  sole  executrix  of  this  my  will,  and  my  saide  sister  Anne  Blonte  and  Mr 
Meggs  supervisors  of  the  same.  My  saide  wife  shall  conveye  to  my  vncle  John  Gregory,  Stewarde 
of  Manchester,  one  Recognizaunce  acknowledged  to  my  vse  by  my  brother  Charnocke  concerning  my 
sister  his  wife,  and  I  wishe  my  said  vncle  John  Gregorye  to  dispose  the  same  at  his  will  and  pleasure. 

Lect.  sigillat  et  subscript  in  piicia  Margarete  Blvnt  vxor  Rici  Blvnte  geneross,  Benet  Poynter  vxor 
Vincent  Poynter  geneross  &c.  Probatum  fuit  tricesimo  die  Martij  1575,  Juramento  Ellene  relicti  et 
executric.  P.C.C.  12  Pyckering. 


Sittenturs,  ffinofttom  anir  jfitdje,  1569. 

This  Indenture  made  the  xxiijth  daye  of  June  in  the  eleventh  yere  of  our  souJaigne  ladye 

Queue  Elizabeth,  betwene  Thomas  Goodwyn  of  Bockinge  in  the  countye  of  Essex,  Gentleman,  and 

John  Fitche  of  London,  Gentleman,  wytnesseth  that  the  saied  Thomas  Goodwyn,  in  consider  aeon  of 
the  some  of  thirtene  poundes  thirtene  shillings  and  eight  pence  to  hym  well  and  trulye  payed,  hathe 
solde  vnto  the  saied  John  Fitche,  all  that  his  parte  purparte  and  porcion  of  one  mesuage  in 
Felsted  in  the  saied  comity  of  Essex,  late  in  the  tenure  of  Thomas  Brewer,  to  haue  and  to  holde 
vnto  the  saied  John  Fytche  his  heyres  and  assignes  foreul.  And  Thomas  Goodwyn  dothe  covennte 

that  the  saide  John  Fitche  his  heires  and  assignes  shall  frome  hensfourth  foreul  peceablye  holde 

and  enioye  three  partes  of  the  same  jhnisses  into  fyve  partes  egallye  devided,  without  lett  or 
disturbaunce  of  the  saied  Thomas  Goodwyn  or  of  any  other  pson.  Prouided  alwayes  that  yf 
Thomas  Goodwyn  do  paye  vnto  John  Fytche  the  full  some  of  thirtene  pounds  thirtene  shillings  and 
eight  pence  on  the  twenty  daye  of  October  next  cornynge,  betwene  the  howers  of  one  and  three  in 
thafternone,  at  the  shoppe  of  John  Walker  sl<yvenor  in  Flete  strete,  beinge  the  corner  shopp  at 
thende  of  Channel  ye  lane  London,  that  then  this  jfsente  sayle  shalbe  vtterly  voyde.  In  witnes 
whereof  the  saied  partyes  to  tlieis  jlscnte  Indentures  haue  intchaungeablye  putt  their  seales. 

Close  Roll,  11  Eliz.  14th  part. 

Thomas  Goodwin  was  but  eight  years  old  when  his  father  died,  and  much  of  his  inheritance 
seems  to  have  been  made  away  with  by  John  Felton,  his  mother’s  second  husband.  Goodwin  c.  Felton 
Chanc.  Proc.,  Series  II,  74,  42.  Becoming  embarrassed  in  his  circumstances  he  sold  his  lands  in 
Felsted  to  John  Fitche,  and  a  little  later  four  messuages,  four  gardens,  sixteen  acres  of  arable  land 
and  four  acres  of  woodland  in  Booking  to  one  Francis  Archer.  Fine ,  Easter,  12  Eliz.  The 
Indenture  between  Thomas  Goodwin  and  John  Fitche  is  the  last  known  document  which  mentions 
him  as  an  inhabitant  of  Booking.  By  an  interesting  coincidence  it  would  appear  that  a  John 
Goodwin  and  a  Richard  Fitche  were  churchwardens  there  in  1602.  Backing,  Inhabitants  of,  c. 
Smith,  Eliz.,  B  ifc  A,  BB,  29,  44. 


GOODWIN  OF  BOOKING. 


219 


(Soottann  of  Jjorfung 


John  Pepys  of  Braintree,  co.= 
Essex  ;  made  Will,  P.C.C.  19 
AylofTe,  31  Dee.  1518,  proved 
15  July  1519 ;  to  be  buried 
in  the  church  ;  lands  in  Brain¬ 
tree  and  Booking. 


:Margaret.  named  1518 
as  one  of  her  husband’s 
executors.  She  made 
Will,  P.C  C.  19  Ay  Ioffe, 
4  May  1519,  proved  15 
July  following  ;  names 
dau.  Margaret  Fryke. 


John  Pepys  of  Debden,  co.  Essex,  — Joan,  widow  of  Robert  Davenant, 
Esq.  ;  Will,  P.C.C.  2  Powell,  18  gent.,  who  d.  2  May  1526,  and  was 
Nov.  1551,  5  E .  6  ;  ob.  s.p.  bur.  at  Debden;  exx  to  her  2d  husb. 


Thomas  Pepys,  B.D.,  Ca¬ 
non  of  St.  Osithe’s  Priory, 
near  Colchester,  1518. 


- 1 

Margaret,  mar.  to  John 
Fryke  ;  she  had  three 
children  in  1519. 


Richard  Pepys,  exor.  to  his  father, 
1519  ;  of  London,  Scrivener,  24 
June  1523,  when  he  made  Will, 
P.C  C.  11  Bodfelde,  proved  17  June 
1523.;=Jane  .  .  .  ob.  s.p. ;  to  be 
bur.  in  St.  Mary’s,  Woolnorth. 


William  Pepys,  devisee  of 
his  brother  Richard,  1523. 
=Joan  .  .  .  who  re-married 
.  .  .  Bray,  and  was  his  wi¬ 
dow  in  London,  1552,  when 
John  Pepys  made  his  will. 


William  Goodwin  of  Goodwin-pElizabeth  Pepys,  not 


Place  in  Booking,  co.  Kssex,1523; 
devisee  of  Robt.  Cooke,  P.C.C. 
5  Alenger.  1539  ;  named  1523  in 
will  of  Thos.  Spring  of  Laven- 
ham,  co.  Suffolk. 


yet  married  in  1519, 
but  married  before 
24  June  1523. 


i - 

Edmund  Goodwin,  devisee 
Esq.,  his  uncle,  1551. 


of  John  Pepys, 


John  Goodwin, 
devisee  of  John 
uncle,  1551. 


the  elder, 
Pepys,  his 


John  Gooding,  the 
younger,  devisee  of 
John  Pepys,  1551. 


George  G  oodwin  ,de - 
visee  of  John  Pepys, 
his  uncle,  1551. 


John  Felton,  gent.,  2d  husbd.,=f  Ellen,  sister  to  Walter  Blount, =pWilliam  Goodwin  of  Booking,  and" 


mar.  at  Pentlow,  Essex,  22 
June  1557  ;  kinsman  to  Thos. 
Felton  of  Onger  Park,  co. 
Essex,  Esq.  ;  defendant  with 
Ellen,  his  wife,  in  Goodwin  c. 
Felton,  1570,  &c. 


Esq.,  and  to  Anne  Blount  of 
St.  James’,  Clerkenw'ell,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C.  36  Dixy, 
1594  ;  devisee  of  her  brother- 
in-law,  Sir  Thos.  Pope,  P.C.C. 
10  Chaynay,  1556, 


after  of  Bermondsey,  co.  Surrey 
Will  P.C.C.  16  More,  23  Nov.  1554, 
proved  11  Dec.  same  year  ;  tnq. 
p.  m.  2  and  3  P.  &  M.  ;  Lord  of 
the  Manor  of  Bounes  in  Bocking. 


=John  Machell  of  Ber¬ 
mondsey.  gent-,  3d  hus¬ 
band  ;  Will  P.C.C.  12 
Pyckering  20  March 

1574  ;  prob.  30  March 

1575  ;  bequests  to  his 
wife’s  children, 


I - 

Joan  Fel¬ 
ton,  devi¬ 
see  of  her 
aunt, Anne 
Blount, 
1594. 


Frances  Fel¬ 
ton,  devisee 
of  her  aunt, 
AnneBlount 
1594. 


Thomas  Goodwin,  son  and  heir,  aged  8  11  Dec.  1654; 
plaintiff,  1570,  in  Goodwin  c.  Felton,  Chanc.  Proc.,  Series 
II,  G.  74,  42;  called  Pope  Goodwin  in  the  will  of  his 
aunt,  Anne  Blount,  and  Thomas  Pope  Goodwin  in  that  of 
John  Machell ;  of  Bocking,  co.  Essex,  Gent ,  1569,  when 
he  sold  his  lands  in  Felsted.  C/oseBoll,ll  Elis. 


Walter  Goodwin, 
bapt.  at  Bermond¬ 
sey  6  Aug.  1552  ; 
devisee  of  his  aunt, 
AnneBlount, 1594. 


I 

Elizabeth, 
bapt.  at 
Bermond¬ 
sey  4  Sept. 
1550. 


2  E* 


<©ooti\mn  of  ©nil's  Hall. 


Mill  of  Halpb  (Soobimit,  1562. 

I  Raphe  Goodwyn  of  Ipyswyche  merchant  this  twentythe  day  of  December  1562  doe  ordayne 
and  make  this  my  laste  wyll.  I  bequethe  my  sowle  vnto  allmighty  god  and  my  body  to  be 
buryed  in  the  church  of  S*  Mary  at  the  Key  in  Ipyswyche  aforesaid.  I  wyll  that  my  maner 
knowen  by  the  name  of  Bullys  hall  lyeinge  in  Bedfyld,  Worlingworthe  and  Monkis  some  wythein 
the  sayd  county  of  Suff.  be  sould.  And  ffurtlier  I  gene  and  bequethe  my  capytall  messuage  wherein 
I  do  inhabytt  wythe  all  other  my  bowses  &c.  in  Ipyswyche  and  Stooke  nexte  Ipyswych,  and  allso  in 
Kyrbv  in  the  county  of  Essex  to  Elyzabeth  my  wyef  and  after  the  decease  of  the  said  Elyzabethe 
I  will  sayd  messuage  be  sould  and  the  money  be  bestowed  as  hereafter  appointed.  And  I  wyll 
yt  Chrystoplier  Goodwyn  my  eldeste  sonne  shall  haue  the  preferment  to  purchase  said  messuage 
before  any  other  parson  and  ffourty  pounds  w^'in  the  pryce  that  any  other  wyll  gene  for  the 
same.  And  yf  sayd  Xpofer  shall  not  conclude  for  the  purchase  I  wyll  that  Raphe  Goodwyn  my 
sonne  shall  haue  the  next  preferment.  And  ffurther  I  wyll  that  my  two  tenementes  in  the  Brooke 
Strete  nowe  in  the  tenure  of  Andrew  Inkeforby  and  Thomas  Eldred  aud  all  other  my  bowses  in 
Ipyswyche  be  allso  sould  after  the  decease  of  my  wyef  and  the  money  of  the  sale  dystrybuted 
emonges  suche  my  chyldres  hereafter  nomynated  (that  ys  to  say)  to  my  sonne  Raphe  Goodwyn  vpon 
the  sale  of  my  capytall  messuage  ffourty  poundes  and  vpon  the  sale  of  the  rest  of  my  landes  other 
ffourty  poundes.  And  I  gene  to  Roberte  Goodwyn,  Rychard  Goodwyn  and  ffraunces  Goodwyn  to 
eyther  of  them  after  decease  of  my  sayd  wyef  ffourty  pounds,  And  where  Xpofer  my  sonne  ys 

yndebted  to  me  as  apperethe  by  his  accompte  in  the  some  of  ffoure  scoore  and  fyve  pounds  I  will 

said  Xpofer  be  acquyted  of  all  debtes  against  me  so  that  he  do  dystrybute  the  same  as  emonges  his 
children,  that  ys  to  say  Raphe,  Wyllyam,  Rychard,  Xpofer,  Elyzabeth  and  Maryon,  at  there  adge  of 
twenty  and  one  yeres  or  at  the  dayes  of  there  maryadge,  wliiche  shall  ffyrste  happen.  All  the  rest 

of  my  goods  I  gene  them  hooly  to  Elyzabeth  my  wyef  whom  I  make  my  soole  executryxe,  theys 

beinge  wytnesses,  Roberte  Bray,  one  of  the  Bay  lyes  of  Ipyswyche,  Rychard  Bryde  als  Byrd,  Raphe 
Scryvener,  Humfrey  Scryvenr  and  others.  Probatum  vndecimo  die  ffebruarij  1562  Juramento  Petri 
Johnson  procuris  Elizabeth  relicte  ac  executricis.  Decimo  sexto  Novembris  1574  emanauit  comissio 


GOODWIN  OF  BULL’S  HALL. 


221 


Crofro  Goodwyn  filio  defunct  i  ad  administrand  bona  4?  Elizabeth  relcam  iam  defuncta  non 


administrat. 


P.C.C.  9  Chayre. 


By  his  will  dated  8th  March  1534  (P.C.C.  30  Hogen)  John  Smith  of  Ipswich,  Orchall-maker, 
left  his  Manor  of  Bulls  Hall  in  Bedfield  and  other  lands  to  Sir  Humphrey  Wingfield,  Sir  Thomas 
Rush  and  Ralph  Goodwin  of  Ipswich,  his  executors,  to  be  sold  by  them.  His  Inquisition  Post 
Mortem,  taken  35  H.  8,  tells  us  he  had  purchased  it  of  William  Byggot,  Gent. 


Will 


1568 


The  twentye  daye  of  October  1568  I  Richard  Bryde  als  Byrde  of  Ipswiche  gent  being  visited 
w*  aige  and  ympotencye  of  bodye  do  therefore  ordaine  this  my  testament  in  manner  followinge. 
ffirste  I  moste  humblye  cofnytt  my  soule  into  thandes  of  allmyghtye  god  my  creator  and  salvior  and 
my  bodye  to  be  bewryed  in  the  parrishe  churche  of  Saint  Marye  at  the  Keye  in  Ipswiche  aforesaide. 
Secondelye  I  bequeathe  vnto  Clarion  my  wyfe  for  the  tearme  of  her  lyfe  all  my  landes  and 
tenementes  in  Nackton,  Levingeton,  Ipswiche,  or  in  Stoke  nexte  Ipswiche.  I  will  that  my  saide  wyfe 
shall  take  the  some  of  tennce  score  and  tenne  poundes  in  consyderacon  of  suche  moneye  as  I  had 
for  her  howse  which  I  solde  in  the  cornehill  in  Ipswiche.  Monye  comeing  of  the  sale  of  howses  in 
Stoke  and  Ipswiche  I  will  shall  be  devided  amongest  William  Goodwyne,  Richaid  Goodwyne, 
Elizabeth  Goodwyne  and  Clarion  Goodwine,  sonnes  and  dawgliters  of  Johanne  my  late  dawghter  and 
Anne  Bryde  daughter  to  Augustyne  Bryde,  to  be  paide  to  the  sonnes  at  there  seuerall  aiges  of 

twentye  and  foure  yeares  and  to  euerye  of  the  daughters  at  theire  severall  aiges  of  tweutie  yeares 

or  at  the  seuerall  dayes  of  theire  seuerall  mariagf.  Vnto  the  said  Augustyne  my  sonne  after  the 
deceasse  of  the  said  Marion  my  wyfe  my  landes  and  tenements  called  Campelles  Locks  and  firemans 
iu  Nacton  and  Levyngeton  for  tearme  of  his  lyfe  and  after  his  deceasse  to  Anne  Bryde  als  Birde 
the  dowgbter  of  the  said  Augustyne,  and  for  defaulte  of  heires  of  the  bodye  of  said  Anne  said  lands 
shall  remayne  vnto  William  Goodwyn  sonne  to  my  late  dawghter  Johann  and  to  theires  of  the  bodye 
of  said  William,  and  for  defaulte  of  suche  yssue  I  will  the  same  to  Richard  Goodwyne  his  brother, 
and  for  defaulte  of  yssue  of  his  bodye  to  the  nexte  heires  of  me  foreuer.  My  myndo  ys  that  Raufi' 
Goodwyne  one  of  the  sonnes  of  the  said  Johanne  my  dawghter  after  the  deathe  of  my  wyfe  shall 
liaue  my  lands  and  tenements  caked  Humbercar  in  Nacton  and  Levingeton  vpon  conditione  that  he 
do  paye  vnto  Xpofer  Goodwyne  brother  of  the  said  Rauffe  one  annuitie  of  ftoure  poundes,  and  for 

defaulte  of  yssue  I  will  that  after  the  deceasse  of  the  said  Raffe  and  the  deceasse  of  my  saide  wyfe 

that  said  landes  shall  remayne  to  William  Goodwyne  his  brother,  and  for  defaulte  of  yssue  of  the 
bodye  of  said  William  to  be  begottenn  I  will  said  landes  to  Richard  Goodwyne  his  brother,  and  for 
default  of  suche  yssue  to  the  right  heires  of  me  foreuer.  Annuities  of  three  poundes  and  four 
poundes  to  Augustyne  Byrde  als  Hurd  my  sonne  and  to  Elizabeth  wyfe  to  my  saide  sonne  Augustyne. 
The  annitie  demised  vnto  Xpofer  Goodwyn  my  dowghter’s  sonne  shalbe  takenn  by  the  executors  or 
assigne  of  Marion  my  wyfe  to  his  vse  and  bringinge  vpp  vntill  he  shalbe  of  the  full  aige  of  twentye 
and  twoe  yeares,  and  then  theye  to  be  accomptable  to  hym,  and  he  frome  thenceforth  himselfe  to 
receaue  the  resydue  thereof.  Also  I  giue  vnto  Elizabeth  Goodwyne  my  dawgliters  dawghter  one  posted 
bedd  Ac.,  to  Xpofer  Goodwyne  sonne  of  my  late  dawghter  Johanne  one  posted  bedd  Ac.  I  will  that 
my  executrixe  shall  bestowe  amonge  the  poore  people  in  Ipswiche  at  my  beryenge  in  charitable  decdes 
the  some  of  tenne  poundes.  The  resydue  I  whoallye  giue  vnto  Marion  my  wyfe  whorne  I  ordaine 
sole  executrix.  Probatum  vicesimo  nono  Novembris  1568  Juramenti  Radi  Browne  procur  Marione 


relce. 


P.C.C.  23  Babington. 


222 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  (EU^abotb  ®00&imtt,  1572. 

The  xxviijth  daie  of  Julye  in  the  fourteneth  yeare  of  the  raigne  of  or  soueraigne  ladye 
Elizabeth,  I  Elizabeth  Goodwyne  of  Ippeswiche  widdowe,  remembringe  the  fraile  estate  of  theis 
mortall  life,  declare  my  laste  will.  I  bequeathe  my  sowle  vnto  almightie  god,  and  as  for  my  bodie,  to 
be  buried  by  my  late  husbande.  I  forgyve  Vallentyne  Goodwyn  my  sonne  all  suche  debtes  as  he 
oweth  me.  Vnto  Richard  my  sonne  my  standing  cup  wth  the  cover  pcell  gilte  and  sixe  siluer  spones 
called  postell  spones  and  a  siluer  pot.  Item  I  will  and  bequeth  vnto  ffrauncs  my  daughter  a  siluer 
bason  and  a  siluer  salte  pcell  gilte,  a  dozen  of  siluer  spones  and  two  white  gobletts.  Vnto  Elizabeth 
Abbes  my  daughter  one  of  my  white  gobletts  and  a  scarlet  gowne  and  to  Margaret  Barber  my 
daughter  one  other  white  goblet  and  a  scarlet  gowne.  Item  I  bequethe  vnto  Robert  my  sonne  a 
nest  of  gilte  gobletts  w*  a  cover.  Vnto  Anne  Abbes  a  siluer  pott  etc.  Vnto  my  nephewe  Thomas 
Barbour  of  London  a  siluer  pott  wl  a  cover.  Vnto  my  daughter  in  lawe  Margarett  Goodwyn  my 
beste  scarlet  peticote.  I  will  that  my  executors  shall  make  sale  of  suche  lands  and  tents  as  by 
the  will  of  Rauffe  Goodwyn  my  late  husband  are  appointed  to  be  solde  and  ffortie  pounds  pcell  of 
the  money  shalbe  equallie  deuided  betwene  my  said  two  daughters  Elizabeth  and  Margaret,  and  the 
residue  of  the  money  wch  shall  remayne  of  the  sale  of  the  said  lands  and  tents  together  wth  all 
other  my  goods,  my  debts  leigacs  and  funeral  expencs  discharged,  shalbe  equallie  distributed  betwene 
Rauffe  Goodwyn,  Richard  Goodwyn  and  ffrauncs  Gilget  my  children  by  even  porcons.  Vnto  Thomas 
Eldred  my  late  husband’s  satten  doblet.  Vnto  my  graundecliilde  Richard  Goodwyn  my  litle  white 
goblet  pcell  gilte.  I  forgyve  John  Abbes  my  sonne  in  lawe  all  suche  debts  as  he  owreth  me.  I 
ordeyne  John  Gylget  my  sonne  in  lawe  and  the  said  Richard  Goodwyn  executors,  and  make  my 
loving  sister  Joliau  Barbor  and  my  lovinge  frende  Rauffe  Scryvener  Supvisors — to  wtC11  Johan  and 
Rauffe  Scrivener  I  giue  for  their  paynes  twTo  of  my  beste  golde  rings.  Probatum  decimo  nono 
Septembris  1572  Juramento  Edwardi  Biggs  procuris  Executor.  P.C.C.  28  Daper. 


Mill  0f  Christopher  ©oofttom,  1607- 

Christopher  Goodwine  of  Downham  Markett  in  the  countie  of  Norfolk,  Gent,  10th  December 
in  the  fifth  yeare  of  King  James.  Vnto  Nicholas  Rixe  my  father  in  lawe  all  my  apparell.  Vnto 
Beatrice  Ryxe  his  wife  my  mother  in  lawe  vi1  xiijs  iiijd  in  monie  or  goodes.  To  Anne  Rixe  my 
sister  in  lawe  40s.  Vnto  Elizabeth  my  wife  fifty  poundes  due  to  me  out  of  the  M armor  of  Castle 
Campes  in  the  countie  of  Cambridgeshire  for  my  annuitie  for  five  yeares  ended  at  the  ffeast  of  S4 
Micliaell  last  past :  also  the  residue  of  my  goodes.  I  make  John  Pell,  gent,  of  West  Winch  in  the 
countie  of  Norfolk  and  the  said  Elizabeth  my  wife  executors.  Probatum  24  Maij  1608  Jurmento 
Johannis  Pell  et  Elizabethe  Goodwine  relicte.  P.C.C.  38  Windebank. 

We  learn  from  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  Goodwyn  c  Skynnei,  a.d.  1600  (Eliz.  B  <k  A, 
GG.  5,  15),  that  the  testator  was  then  Messenger  in  the  Court  of  Wards,  and  that  he  had  had  the 
Patent  or  Grant  of  the  Stewardship  of  the  Manors  of  Lavenham  in  Suffolk  and  Castle  Camps  and 
Foulmer  in  Cambridgeshire  conferred  upon  him  in  the  36th  and  37th  years  of  Queen  Elizabeth  by 
Thomas  Skynner,  sometime  Lord  Mayor  of  London.  His  identity  with  Christopher  Goodwin,  the 
grandson  of  Raphe  Goodwin,  Portman  of  Ipswich,  has  yet  to  be  established. 


GOODWIN  OF  BULL’S  HALL 


223 


(^oottarin  of  Bull’s  $jall. 


.=j=John  Cely  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  =j= Alice,  widow  of  .  .  .  Hunne=j=, 


John  Cely,  1557. 


yeoman  ;  Will  Arch.  Sudb.  1557, 
proved  14  Dec.  1558  ;  names  son- 
in-law  Richard  Bryde  als.  Burd,  son 
Wm.  Cely,  &c. 


and  after  of  John  Cely  ; 
made  Will  Arch.  Sudb.  14 
Dec.  1558  ;  probate  12  Jan. 
following. 


Huun 
or  Hunue 
of  .  .  . 


William  Cely,  half-brother  to  Maryon 
Burd,  1571.  Ilann  r.  Bard,  Chanc.  Proc., 
Series  II,  11.  97,  85.  , 


John  Hunne, 
1558  ;  of  Lon¬ 
don,  1571. 


Ann,  wife  of  .  .  . 
Blake,  and  mother 
of  AuneBlake,!  558, 


Thomasiue,  wife 
of  Thomas  Brett, 
1558. 


Richard  Bryde  als.  Byrde  op 
Ipswich,  gent.  ;  Will,  P.C.C.  23 
Babington,  20  Oct.  1568,  proved 
29  Nov.  1568  ;  to  be  buried  in 
church  of  St.  Mary  at  Key. 


Augustine  Byrde  als.  Bryd  ; 
had  wife  Elizabeth  and  dau. 
Anne  Byrd,  1568. 


-Maryon  Cely.  RapheGood win, Portman  of  Ipswich ;  Will,1 
P.C.C. 9 Chayre.20Dec.1562;  prob.  llFeb. 
following  ;  to  be  bur.  in  St.  Mary  at  Key. 
Imp  p.m.  5  Eliz.  Lord  of  Bull’s  Hall  Manor 
in  Bedfield  ;  lands  in  Kirby,  co-  Essex. 
Twice  chosen  M  P.  for  Ipswich. 


Raphe  Goodwin- 


Robert  Goodwin, 
named  1578  in 
< roodwync .  Fisher. 


Rieliai  d 
Goodwin. 


'Elizabeth,  sister  of  Wm.  Barber 
of  Ipswich  ;  sold  Bull’s  Hall  Ma¬ 
nor  ;  Will,  P.C.C.  28  Daper  27 
July  14  Eliz.  ;  prob.  19  Sept. 
1572  ;  bur.  in  St.  Mary  at  Key, 
2  Aug.  1572. 


Elizabeth,  Margaret,  ux, 

ux.  John  .  .  .  Barber, 

Abbes,  1572.  1572. 


Joan  By  ide¬ 
als.  Bryde, 
dead  1568, 
when  her 
father  made 
his  will. 


j  .  j — 

Goodwin, 

£  Eliz. 


^Christopher 
son  and  heir, 

1563,  and  then  aged  36; 
of  Ipswich,  merchant. 
1578,  Gnodwin  c.  Fislier, 
and  1 588,  Smith  c ■  Good¬ 
win, i  Eliz.  B  &  A. 


Valentine  Goodwin  of  King's  Lynne,  Frances 
1554,  Close  Roll,  1  ifc  2,  P  <£•  M ;  of  ux.  John 
Thoruham,  co.  Norfolk,  gent..  1588.  Gilgate, 
Goodwin  c.  Fisher,  Eliz.  B  &  A,  GG.  6,  1572. 

41.  Goodwin  c.  Good, win,  Eliz.  B  &  A, 

GG.  13,  28.  Goodwin  et  Nunes , 

Close  Roll,  30  Eliz.  25. 


. .  .  ux.  Roger  Warren  of  Ipswich, merch., 
who  in  Will,  P.C.C.  22  Mellershe, 
Sept.  1559,  names  his  brother-in-law 
Christopher  Goodwin,  his  sons  ltichd., 
Christopher,  John  and  Robert  War¬ 
ren,  &c.  ;  Raphe  Goodwin,  a  witness. 


William  Goodwin,  1568  ;  of  Ipswich,  RichardGood-  Raphe  Goodwin, 
1587,  when  he  made  Will,  Arch.  Sufi.,  win.deviseeof  devisee,  1568,  of 
naming  Elizabeth  his  wife  ;  Ralph  and  his  grandfa-  his  grandfather 
ChristopherGoodwin,  being  witnesses,  ther  Byrd.  Byrd. 


Christopher  Goodwin,  1568. 
Query  if  identical  with  Chris¬ 
topher  Goodwin  of  Downliam 
Market,  1607. 


—i - 1 

Elizabeth  Marion 
Goodwin,  Goodwyn, 
1568.  1568. 


Thomas  Spelman  of  Norwich,  geut.,  married  Cecily,  daughter  and  heir  of  .  .  .  Reedham  of  Ipswich,  gent.,  widow 
of  Ralph  Goodwin  of  Ipswich,  and  before  that  of  .  .  .  Smith  of  Suffolk.  Norris,  quoted  by  Davy. 

Alice  and  Cicely  Reedham,  the  daughters  and  coheirs  of  .  .  .  Reedham  of  Ipswich,  were  of  tender  years  in 
1561,  Thomas  Flatman  being  their  guardian.  They  were  seized  of  lands  and  tenements  in  Ipswich  and  Bramford, 
together  with  a  messuage  and  two  hundred  acres  in  Toppesfield  and  Finchingfield,  co.  Essex,  the  evidences  of  which 
had  come  into  the  hands  of  Elizabeth  Layer,  widow.  Redham  c.  Layer,  Chancery  Proceedings,  Series  II,  155,  1. 


#oothotn  of  Cast  J&crgljolt. 


Ralph  Goodwin,  who  purchased  an  estate  at  North  Burlingham  in  Norfolk,  in  1491,  would 
seem  to  be  the  common  ancestor  of  the  Goodwins  of  North  Burlingham  and  of  East  Bergholt. 
The  manor  called  Goodwin’s  in  the  former  place  had  passed  from  the  name  before  the  35th  year  of 
Henry  VIII.  Blomefield’s  Norfolk,  VII,  22^.  Margaret,  eldest  daughter  of  Richard  Goodwin  of 
North  Burlingham,  married  there  in  1559  to  James  Keppinge  of  Freetliorpe,  was  one  of  the  next-of- 
kin  who  contested  the  will  of  John  Goodwin  of  East  Bergholt  in  1  GO  1 .  Decree,  P.C.C.  J-5  Woodhall. 
Full  abstracts  or  verbatim  copies  of  the  wills  of  Ralph  Goodwin  of  North  Burlingham,  1518,  John 
Goodwin  of  East  Bergholt,  1600,  Daniel  Goodwin  of  Yoxford,  1625,  and  John  Goodwin  of  East 
Bergholt,  1638,  with  other  valuable  evidences  bearing  on  the  history  of  the  family,  are  given  in 
“  The  Goodwins  of  Hartford,  Connecticut,”  pp.  46-56.  The  complicated  relationships  of  John 
Goodwin,  who  bequeathed  fifty  pounds  to  the  plantation  of  New  England,  are  best  explained  perhaps 
by  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  Woodgate  c.  Goodwin,  Eliz.,  B  &  A,  Woodgate  c.  Goodwin,  Jas  I, 
P>  A  A,  and  Chaplin  c.  Woodgate,  Mitford  V,  lxxvi,  35,  which  will  probably  appear  amongst  the 
“  Genealogical  Gleanings  in  England,”  contributed  by  Mr.  Henry  F.  Waters  to  the  “  New  Eugland 
Historical  and  Genealogical  Register.” 


Inquisition  on  tlj t  toatlj  of  |o!jn  ©ooMuin,  1606. 

Suff.  Inquisico  capt  apud  Woodbridge  in  com  pdco  vicesimo  nono  die  Octobr  regni  dni  nri 
Jacobi  dei  gra  Anglie  Ac.  Regis,  quarto,  coram  ffrancisco  Andrewe  gen;  oso  Escaetore  dci  Regis,  post 
mortem  Johis  Goodwyn  imp  de  Estbargholt  in  3c°  com  Suff  p  sacrament  Robti  Atherton  Ac.  qui 
dicunt  qd  jidcus  Johes  Goodwyn  fuit  seitus  de  vno  capitli  mesuagii  nup  Robti  Wyles  in  Estbargholt 
ac  de  vno  clo  voc  Spefild  in  eisdem  villa,  ac  etiam  de  vno  alio  tehto  vocat  Dennyse  in  Shotley  in 
dco  com  Suff,  necnon  de  duo  clo  vocat  Blunts  in  Estbargholt,  et  de  vno  alio  inclo  terre  vocat 
Anuotts  in  Estbargholt,  ac  de  vno  tento  vocat  Glaswyns  in  Stratford  in  com  jidco,  ac  de  vno  clauso 
vocat  little  Boyton  Hall  feild  cu  grovetto  nup  pcelt  man,  ij  de  Boyton  Hall  cont  quadraginta  acr,  ac 
etiam  de  reulcoe  post  mortem  Elizabeth  Smyth  vidue  Man]  ij  de  Boyton  Hall  Ac.  in  Capell  in  com 
jfdco  nup  Steplii  Woolward,  ac  din1,  sa^  pecia^  terre  prati  pasture  A  bosci  vocat  Barnefeild,  Carters, 
Lynton,  Rushemer,  Butts,  Tuffp  &  Glaswrightf,  Harmons,  Longmeadowe  A  Netherlotenfoi’d  contineh 
nonaginta  acr  in  Capell,  necnon  vnius  prati  sine  alneti  cont  quatuor  acr  in  Capell.  Et  sic  inde 
seitus  jidcus  Johes  Goodwyn  decimo  die  Maij  anno  regni  nup  Regine  Elizabeth  quadragesimo 
secundo  apud  Estbargholt  obijt  et  qd  Jobes  Goodwyn  filius  pdci  Johis  fuit  px  lieres  pris  A  tempore 


GOODWIN  OF  EAST  BERGHOLT. 


225 


mortis  pdci  Johis  pris  fuit  etatis  tresdecim  anno;*  et  amplius.  Et  Juratores  pdci  pteria  dicunt 
qd  capitie  mesuagiu  vocat  Spefeild  tenentr  de  Edwardo  Lambe  armigero,  vt  de  Malays  suis  de 
Ilillaries  et  Spencers  in  Estbargholt  .  .  .  .  et  tentnm  vocat  Dennyse  tenetr  de  Jobe  Stratton 
armigero,  vt  de  man]  io  suo  de  Kyrton  Hall  in  Shotley.  Et  jidcm  elm  vocat  Blunts  tenebatr  de 
Jobe  Wentworth  armigero  vt  de  man]  io  de  Wenham  Magna  ....  Ac  qct  jldcm  Man]  m  de 
Boyton  Hall  Ac.  tenebantr  de  Edward  Sulyard  armigero  vt  de  man]io  suo  de  Stratford  Hall  in 
libo  socagio.  Et  Barnefeld,  Carters  &c.  tenentr  de  Preposito  &  Socijs  Colegij  Regine  in  Cant  vt 
de  Man]io  suo  de  Grotes  in  Capell.  Et  insup  dicunt  qd  fldict  Elizabeth  Smyth  vid  iure  suo 
exitus  de  Great  Boyton  Hall  feild  Ac.  Ac.  a  tempore  mortis  jMci  Johis  Goodwyn  pris  vsq3  diem 
capcionis  huius  inquisicois  pcepit.  Ac  quod  pens  Johes  Goodwyn  filius  et  Daniell  Goodwyn 
frater  eius  exitus  et  pfic  rcsict  mesuagiojj  Ac.  a  tempore  mortis  jfdci  Johis  Goodwyn  pris  pcepit 
et  huit.  Escaet  3  Car.  2,  CO. 

The  Inquisition  of  Daniel  Goodwin,  the  younger  son,  who  succeeded  to  the  Manor  of  Boy  tons 
(Miscelh  Inq.  p  m.  1 6,  39),  was  taken,  long  after  his  decease,  in  the  fifteenth  year  of  King 
Charles  the  First,  He  held  most  of  the  lands  above  referred  to,  a  Thomas  Woolward  being  one 
of  his  tenants.  At  his  death  on  the  20th  of  December,  1625,  Edmund  Goodwin,  his  son  and 
heir,  was  found  to  be  ten  years  of  age. 


Will  of  ffiootifom,  1645. 

I  Edmund  Goodwyn  of  Neyland  in  the  couutie  of  Sniff  make  this  my  last  will  in  manner 
followinge.  Haveinge  alreadie  provided  with  god  for  my  soule  I  leave  my  bodie  to  bee  buried 
by  my  Executor.  I  give  vnto  Margarett  my  wife  all  my  landes  in  the  occupation  of  Richard 
Mosse  and  after  her  decease  to  my  sonne  Edmund  and  his  heires.  I  give  unto  her  all  the 

revenues  of  my  lands  and  tenements  vntill  my  sonne  Edmund  shall  attaine  to  the  age  of  one 

A  twentie  yeares,  that  out  of  the  profitts  maie  bee  gatherd  ffiue  hundred  poundes  which  I  give 
for  my  daughter  Maries  portion,  to  be  paied  at  one  and  twentie  yeares  of  age  or  daie  of 
marriage,  and  one  hundred  poundes  vnto  my  sonne  Daniell.  I  giue  to  my  sonne  Daniell  all  my 
lands  and  tenements  in  the  occupation  of  James  Hedge  and  John  Woolward,  hee  to  enter  the 
same  at  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares,  and  in  the  meanetime  my  wife  to  have  the  profitts 
thereof.  To  my  sonne  Edmund  all  my  other  landes  and  tenements  formerly  not  mentioned,  to  enter 

the  same  at  one  and  twentie  yeares  of  age.  I  make  my  beloved  wife  my  sole  execuP.  I  would 

have  my  wife  looke  to  the  traineinge  vpp  of  my  children  in  the  feare  of  god,  teachinge  of  them 
till  theire  severall  ages  aforesaid  out  of  my  said  landes  and  tenements.  I  desire  that  my  worthie 
freindes  Natliainell  Bacon  Esqr  and  Colonell  Brampton  Gurdon  Esqr  would  bee  pleased  to  see 
this  will  performed.  And  that  their  love  in  so  doinge  may  bee  considered  not  in  a  sparinge 
waie  but  to  theire  content.  This  tenth  daie  of  June  1645.  Probatum  vndecimo  die  ffebruarij 
1645  Juramento  Margarete  Goodwin  relicte.  P.C.C.  13  Twisse. 


22G 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


<§ootitotn  of  Cast  3Sergf)olt. 


Richard  Goodwin  of  North  Burlingham,  co.  Norfolk,  1539,  grandson  probably=f= 
of  Ralph  Goodwin  of  that  place,  whose  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  dated  1518,  is  I 
printed  in  “  The  Goodwins  of  Hartford,  Conn.”  Buried  in  the  church  there  | 
25  June  1576.  I 


Margaret  Goodwin, 
bapt.  at  Burlingham 
1539  ;  mar.  there  1559 
to  James  Keppinge  of 
Freethorpe  Norff.,wlio 
made  Will  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.  1593.  She  is 
named  in  the  Decree, 
1 601,confirmingthe  will 
of  John  Goodwin  her 
brother. 


Elizabeth  Keppinge,  ux 
Wm.  Neale  of  Sale- 
house, Norff.,  who  made 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
26  April  1631,  naming 
his  cousin,  Thos.  Good¬ 
win  of  Burlingham, 
gent. 


- 1 — I — ! - - 

Elizabeth,  bapt. 
at  Burlingham, 
1540;  mar.  there 
to  Jeffrey  Camp, 
lyn  or  Catlyn  3 
Nov.  1566. 


John  Goodwin  of  East: 
Bergholt,  co.  Suffolk, 
clothier  ;  Will,  P.C.C. 
39  Wallop,  10  May 
1600  ;  Decree  P.C.C- 
45  Woodhall,  1601  ; 
—  Inq.  p.m.  4  Jas.  ;  bapt. 

Alice,  bapt.  29th  at  Burlingham  1555  ; 
Sept.  1548,  died  10  May  1600. 

—  Manor  of  Boyton  Hall 

Ann,  bapt.  1552.  in  Capel. 


^Elizabeth,  da.  of  Ste¬ 
phen  Woodgate  of 
East  Bergholt,  clothier, 
who  made  Will,  P.C.C. 
90  Lewin,  10  May 
1598,  by  Katherine  his 
first  wife,  relict  of  .  .  . 
Whiter.  Woodgate  c. 
Goodwin,  Eliz.  B  &  A. 


Thomas  Barker  oF=j=Mary  Goodwin,  not 


Sibton.co.  Suffolk, 
Esq.  ;  Will  P.C.C. 
59  Rivers  28  July 
1643.  He  mar.  2d 
Elizabeth,  sister  to 
Henry  Maxey, Esq., 
by  whom  numer¬ 
ous  children. 


yet  18  in  1600  ;  w.  of 
Thomas  Barker  in 
1638.  She  had  issue 
in  1638,  when  John 
Goodwin  her  brother 
made  his  will,  but 
appears  to  have  died 
s.p. 


William  Neale,  to  whom  his  Ellen 
father  left  messuage  and  1631. 
lands  in  Saleliouse  and  - 

Hoveton  St.  Jolm,co.  Norff.,  Agnes 

1631;  then  under  age.  1631. 


Neale, 


Neale, 


— i — i 

Elizabeth 

1631. 

Margaret 

1631. 


Neale, 


Neale, 


William  Goodwin  of 
North  Burlingham, 
bapt.  there  1542  ;  bro¬ 
ther-in-law  and  devi¬ 
see  of  James  Keppinge, 
1593  ;  had  with  other 
issue  =p 
n - 1 

Thomas  Goodwin,  bapt. 
3  March  1576. 

William,  bapt.  1578. 


RichardGoodwin,  bapt. 
19  Sept.  1545. 

Stephen,  bapt.  at  Bur- 
liugham  1557  ;  buried 
there  1558. 

Grace,  bapt.  at  Burling¬ 
ham  1550  ;  mar.  there 
29  July  1571  to  Henry 
Reade. 


Daniel  Goodwin  of  Yox-=f  Dorothy,  da.  of  Edmund  Bar-=j=EdwardYeard- 


ker  of  Sibton,  gent.,  and  of  I  ley,  2d  husbd., 
Marion  his  wife,  who  made  Will,  1 635,  when 
P.C.C.  105  Sadler,  2  Sept.  1635,  |  Marion  Barker 
naming  her  grandchildren  Ed-  |  made  her  will, 
following  ;  Inq.  p.m.  15  mond,  Daniel  and  Stephen 
Car.  Heob.20Sep.1625.  Goodwin,  Mary  Yardley,  &c. 

\P 


ford,  co.  Suffolk,  gent. 
Lord  of  the  Manor  of 
Boytons;  WillP.C.C.29 
Oct.  1625, proved  16Feb. 


i - - 1 - 1 

Edmund  Goodwin,  s.  &  h. ,  set  ^Margaret,  Daniel,  devi-  Stephen, 

10  in  1625  ;  Will,  P.C.C.  13  |  named  in  see  of  his  devisee  of 

Twisse,  10  June  1645  ;  then  of  her  hus-  grandmother  his  grand- 

Neyland.  co.  Suff.  ;  prob.  11  |  band’s  will,  Barker,  1635.  mother, 

Feb.  164o.  1645.  Barker. 


_ i 


John  Goodwin  of  East= 
Bergholt,  s.  and  h.,  set. 
13  in  1600,  3d  husbd. 
of  Elizabeth  Lincoln. 
Will  P.C.C.  Ill  Lee 
19  July  1638  ;  left  £50 
to  the  plantation  of 
New  England. 


=  Elizabeth,  da.  of  Robt.  Lin-=j=George  Hubert  of= 
coin,  al’s  Skinner,  who  I  East  Bergholt,  1st 


made  Will,  P.C.C.  69  St. 
Barbe,  1590  ;  sister  of  Dan¬ 
iel  Skinner  of  East  Berg¬ 
holt,  who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  26  Dorset,  1608. 


husbd.;  Will, 

!  P.C.C.  54  Kidd, 
|  proved  16  <  June 
|  1599  by  Elizabeth 
Holloway  al’s  Hu¬ 
bert,  his  relict. 


Edmund,  under  age,  1645. 


-William  Holloway  of  Fast- 
Bergholt,  clothier.  2d 
husbd.  of  Elizabeth  Lin¬ 
coln  ;  Will  P.C.C.  22  Dor- 
sett.6Jas., proved  24Marcli 
1608,  by  Eliz.  his  relict. 
Woodgate  c.  Goodwin,  Jas. 
I,  li  tb  jL. 


Mary. 


- 1 

Daniel. 


first  wife  of  Wm.  Holloway. 


Sarah,  m.  1  Daniel 
Woodgate,  who  made 
Will  1625  P.C.C,  2 
JolmChaplyn.  Chap- 
lyn  c.  Woodgate,  Mil¬ 
ford  V ;  was  Sarah 
Betts,  w°,  1638. 


Mary  Holloway, 
ultimate  heiress 
by  this  marriage, 
was  w.  of  John 
Woodgate  of 
East  Bergholt, 
1617. 


John  Goodwin 
of  Emmanuel 
Coll.  Camb.1631, 
only  child  ;  a 
clergyman  ;  de¬ 
visee  of  his  half- 
brother  Wm. 
Hubert.  By 
Mary  his  wife 
had  issue. 

T 


Wm.  Hubert 
of  East  Berg¬ 
holt,  clothier, 
only  son  ;  Will, 
P.C.C.  96  Goare, 
15  May  1637, 
probate  16  June 
same  year;  ob. 
s.p. ;  names  the 
Goodwins,  &c. 


Elizabeth  Holloway, 
set.  16  on  her  bro¬ 
ther’s  death  in  1617; 
mar.  Frances  Quarles 
of  Newton  by  Sud¬ 
bury,  clerk.  She 
made  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  6  Aug.  1638, 
having,  with  other 
issue,  a  son. 


Wm.  Holloway 
of  East  Berg¬ 
holt,  set.  4  at 
his  father’s 
death,  ob.  s.p, 
Admon ,  1617, 

to  Elizabeth 
Goodwin,  his 
mother. 


Anne  H  olloway, 
set.  14  in  1617  ;  m. 
Roades  Heyward 
of  East  Bergholt, 
whose  Will,  P.C.C. 
18  Juxon  is  dated 
8  Jan.  1662.  Her 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
was  proved  24 
Nov.  1683. 


Susan  Holloway, 
set.  10  in  1617;  m. 
1  Matthew  Ale- 
founder  of  Ded¬ 
ham,  Candler,  and 
2Nathaniel  Bacon, 
Esq. ,  of  Gray’slun, 
who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.106  May,  26 
Aug.  1660,  prob.  8 
July  1661. 


Mary  Holloway, 
set.  8  in  1617. 
In  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.  3  June 
1631,  she  names 
her  brother 
John  Goodwin  ; 
prob.  5  J  uly 
1631.  Ob.  unm. 


John  Goodwin,  under  age  in  1638. 


William  Quarles. 


A  dau.,  mar.  Wm.  Hamby. 


(gootitotn  of  jframlmgliam. 


Will  of  (Eltjabclij  (BooMtmt,  1629. 

Elizabeth  Goodinge  of  Finningham  in  the  countie  of  Suffp,  widowe,  20th  January  1629.  Vnto 
Edmund  Goodinge  my  sonne  my  great  chest  nowe  at  the  dwelling  of  Robert  Ruslie  my  sonne  in 
lawe.  To  Elizabeth  Goodinge  my  grandchilde,  daughter  of  Edmund  Goodinge  my  sonne.  To 
Margery  Rushe  my  daughter  one  truncke  cheste  being  at  Robert  Rushe’s  my  sonne  in  lawe  aforesaid. 
To  Elizabeth  Kersey  my  daughter.  To  Rachell  Portte  and  Judith  Portte  my  grandchildren.  To 
John  Dowsen,  Thomas  Dowsen  and  Robert  Dowsen  my  grandchildren.  To  Robert  Rushe,  Jasper 
Rushe  and  Edward  Rushe  my  grandchildren.  To  Avis  Turner  my  grandchild.  My  welbeloved 
sonne  Jasper  Goodinge  to  be  executor.  Probatum  undecimo  die  Octobris,  1630,  executori. 

Arch.  Sudb.  Lib.  Corner,  fo.  81. 


Will  ttf  Jasjur  dooMtmt,  1656. 

Jasper  Gooding  of  Framlingham  in  the  countie  of  Suff:  the  20th  May  1656.  I  bequeath  vnto 
Judith  my  loving  wife  my  capitall  messuage  wherein  I  now  dwell  in  Framlingham,  with  all  the 
lands  appertaining,  dureinge  the  terme  of  her  naturall  life,  she  payeing  the  annuity  of  fforty  pounds 
a  yeare  vnto  my  sonne  John  Gooding  or  to  his  now  wife,  according  to  a  writeing  bearing  date  the 
one  and  thirty  day  of  August  1640  made  by  me  vnto  the  said  John  after  his  marriage.  After 
decease  of  said  Judith  I  give  said  premises  vnto  the  said  John  Gooding  my  sonne  ;  except  sixteen 
acres  called  Helbrook  which  I  giue  vnto  Thomas  Morphew  my  sonne  in  law,  John  my  sonne  also  to 
pay  him  two  hundred  pounds  in  consideracon  of  his  marriage  with  Susan  my  daughter.  I  giue 
Broadwater  meadowes  vnto  James  Gooding  my  sonne.  To  Thomas  Gooding  my  sonne  Black  Acre 
and  other  lands.  I  giue  Red  Rose  meadow  unto  Elizabeth  my  daughter  now  the  wife  of  Andrew 
Keepe,  and  land  called  Strawbury  Hilles  vnto  Rachell  Porter.  Ynto  Judeth  now  the  wife  of  Nicholas 
Kempe  a  house  and  parcell  of  grownd,  Kempe  to  pay  hue  pounds  vnto  above  named  Rachell  Porter. 
Ynto  Susan  Gooding,  the  daughter  of  John  Gooding  my  sonne.  Vnto  Edmond  Gooding  my  brother. 

Judeth  my  beloved  wife  to  be  sole  executrix.  This  will  was  proved  12th  Feb.  1656,  by  oath  of 

Judeth  Gooding,  the  relict.  P.C.C.  83  Ruthen. 

William  Port  of  Ilarleston,  co.  Norfolk,  brewer,  is  spoken  of  as  “brother”  to  Jasper  Goodwin 

of  Framlingham,  in  1626,  in  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  Goodinge  c.  Damont,  Chas.  I,  B  &  A, 

GG.  29,  7. 

2  Fs 


228 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


©ooDVutit  of  jframltrtgljam. 


Thomas  Gooddynge  of  Burgate,  co.  Suffolk  ;=fMargery,  living  1551  ;  probably 
Will,  Arch  Sudb.,  5  Oct.  1551,  proved  3  Feb.  sister  to  George  Stirling,  her 
following;  children  then  young;  names  a  brother,  husband’s  brother-in-law. 
George  Goodinge.  Ob.  vita  patris. 


1st  wife. 


-Thomas 

yeoman 


I - . — 

Goodwin 


of  Melles,  co.  Suffolk, =j=Elizabeth,  2d  wife,  made  Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 


Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  12  July  1518  ; 
lands  in  Burgate  and  Wortham  to  Thomas 
Goodwin,  his  son  ;  names  his  son  Jasper. 


l — r 

Thomas  Goodwin  of 
Burgate,  co.  Suff., 
1598  ;  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.  1  Nov.  1618  ; 
prob.  15  Dec,  same 
year ;  had  issue. 

William  Goodwin. 


20  Jan.  1629  ;  then  of  Finningham,  co.  Suffolk, 
widow  ;  probate  11  Oct.  1630  to  Jasper  Good¬ 
win,  her  son. 


I  I 

Margaret  Goodwin,  1551,  ux. 
Garblesham,  1598. 

William  Goodwin,  1551. 


Jasper  Goodwin  of; 
Kramlingham,  1613  ; 
Will,  P,C.C.83  Rutli- 
en,  20  May  1656, 
proved  12  Feb.  fol¬ 
lowing  ;  “  brother  ” 
toWm.  Porte  of  Har- 
leston,  1626. 


:Judith,  al¬ 
ready  married 
1613  ;  Will, 
P.C.C.  448 
Pell,  12  Nov. 
1658  ;  bur.  29 
Jan.  follow¬ 
ing. 


- 1 - — - 

Edmund  Goodwin, 
1598,  named  1656  in 
his  brother's  will. 


Elizabeth  Goodwin, 
devisee  of  her  grand¬ 
mother,  1629. 


Margery,  wife  of 
Robert  Rush, 
1629. 

Elizabeth,  wife 
of  .  .  .  Kersey, 
1629. 


Rachel,  mother 
perhaps  of  Kach- 
el  Porte  &  Jud¬ 
ith  Porte, grand¬ 
children  of  Eliz. 
Goodwin,  w°,  in 
1 629, herself  pro¬ 
bably  then  dead. 


n  i  i 


Anne,  1598. 
Francis,  1598. 
Prudence,  1598. 


I  I  I  I 

Judith,  Jas¬ 
per,  Mary 
and  Samuel 
seem  to 
have  died 
young. 


Elizabeth,  bapt. 
atFramlingham. 
1623  ;  wife  of 
Andrew  Keepe, 
1568,  when  she 
had  three  child- 


Susan,  bapt. atFram¬ 
lingham  1 623  ;  mar. 
there,  5  Sept.  1654, 
to  Thomas  Morpliew, 
gent. ,  of  Eye,  who  was 
devisee  of  Thos.  Good¬ 
win ,  her  brother,  1 6  62. 


=John  Goodwin  of= 
Framlingham, 
gent.,  heir  to  his 
father;  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  8  Feb.  1677; 
prob.  19  May  1 687 ; 
buried  IS  Ap.1687. 


:  Bridget,  2d  wife, 
a  mar.  settlement 
30  Aug.  1 640  ;  died 
before  husband, 
but  after  his  will 
was  made  ;  bur.  14 
Feb.  1686. 


James  Goodwin, 
bapt.  at  Framling- 
ham,  1620.  His 
father  settled  copy- 
hold  upon  him  and 
Mary  his  wife,  20 
Dec.  1650. 


Thomas  Goodwin 
of  Framlingham, 
singleman,  son  of 
Jasper,  made  Will. 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  22 
July  1662  ;  bur.  6 
Aug,  same  year. 


Jasper  Goodwin  of 
Framlingham,  eldest 
son;  Will, Arch. Suff., 
16  Dec.  1695  ;  prob. 
14Feb.  170f-;  ob.s.p.; 
lands  to  Jasper  Good¬ 
win,  his  nephew, 
r 


TT 

John  Goodwin,  ob. 
s.p.;  Adrnon  Arch. 
Suff.  10  Dec. -1695. 

Thomas  Goodwin, 
bapt  at  Framling¬ 
ham,  1657. 


James  Goodwin  of=j=Sarah,  relict  of 


Framlingham, 
gent.  ;  Admou 
Arch.  Suff.  23 
March  1692,  to 
Sarah  Goodwin  his 
relict. 


James  Goodwin, 
re  married  and 
was  Sarah  Lan¬ 
caster  in  1712  & 
had  dau.  Sarah 
Ludbrooke. 


Susan  Goodwin, 
Will,  Arch.  Sufi., 
dated  1701. 


Bridget,  ux.  .  . 
Buckenham  of 
Bramfield,  1612. 


Sarah  Goodwin, 
Will,  Arch.  Suff., 
dated  1712. 

Mary  Goodwin, 
Will.  Arch.  Suff., 
dated  1740. 


John  Goodwin  of  Edmund  Goodwin=j=Elizabeth, 
Framlingham, 
gent.  ;  Will,  Arch. 

Suff.,  27  May]  719, 
proved  3  Sept, 
same  year  ;  child¬ 
ren  by  Mary,  his 
wife,  then  under 
age.  =j= 


of  Framlingham, 
gent.,  bapt.  1688  ; 
died  1734,  sot.  46  ; 
Will.  Arch.  Suff, 
6  Sept.  1734, 
proved  7  Dec. 
same  year. 


John 

Goodwin. 


James 

Goodwin. 


Edmund 

Goodwin. 


da.  of  John 
Wilgress  of 
Framling¬ 
ham. 


Bridget,  wife 
of  ...  E'uller. 
1712,  was  of 
Parham,  wi¬ 
dow,  in  1740. 


Jasper  Goodwin  of: 
Framlingham  Ad- 
mou.  Arch.  Suff.  26 
Nov.  1728  to  Mar¬ 
garet,  his  relict,  and 
Jasper  Goodwin. 


Margaret,  living 
in  1728;  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  9 
Julyl734 ;  prob. 
20  July  ;  all  to 
dau. 


Elizabeth, 

1701. 

Susan 
1701.  ' 


J  udith.wife  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Buck  of  Fram¬ 
lingham,  1677 ;  had 
issue  Thos.  Buck, 
only  son,andSarah, 
ux.  ...  Godbold, 
only  dau.,  1712. 

- 1 

James  Goodwin, 
brother  of  Edmund 
and  Jasper  Good¬ 
win,  1695,  devisee 
of  Sarah  Goodwin, 
his  aunt,  1712. 


Jasper  Goodwin  of  Fram-=f=Jane,  living 


_J  , _ 


lingliam,  gent,  1757 
exor.  to  his  son-in-law, 
Edmund  Goodwin  ;  bapt. 
27  June  1710.  | 

L 


1731  &  1740. 


Sarah,  bapt.  30  Jan. 
1711  ;  wife  of  Samuel 
Newson  of  Framling¬ 
ham,  1731  and  1710. 


Margaret  bapt.  25  Dec. 
1712  ;  wife  of  Nicholas 
Newson  of  Framling¬ 
ham,  1734  and  1740. 


Edmund  Goodwin  of  Framling-=f- Margaret,  dau.  of  John  Pierson  of  Hunt- 
ham,  Surgeon,  bapt.  there  1732;  I  Jasper  and  Jane  j  ingfield  and  after  of  Fram- 


died  Oct.  25  1757  ;  Will,  Arch. 
Suff,  30  March  1757,  proved  25 
May  same  year. 


Goodwin,  bapt. 
Framlingham, 
Oct,  1733. 


lingham,  gent. ;  died  12 
E'eb.  1785,  set.  55  ;  buried 
at  Framlingham. 


- 1 — i - 

James  Goodwin, 
bapt.  3  Aug.  1732. 

Jasper  Goodwin, 
bapt.  1736. 


1  r 


Mary  Goodwin, 
bapt.  1735. 

Barbara  Goodwin, 
bapt.  1737. 


- 1  i 

Judith  Goodwin, 
bapt.  1740. 

Sarah  Goodwin, 
bapt.  1731. 


Margaret  Edmund  Goodwin  of  Bartlow,  co. 
Goodwin,  Camb.,  M.D.,  an  eminent  scientist  ; 
bapt.  17  died  at  Framlingham  8  Aug.  1829, 
Oct.  1750.  set  73.  Gent.  Mag.  Estates  to  his 
nephew,  Edmund  Goodwyn  Pierson. 


Jasper  Pierson= 
ofFramlingham, 
gent.,  married 
there  26  June 
1806. 


-Mary,  dau.  of 
William  Ed¬ 
wards  Jury  of 
FVainling- 
ham. 


John  Pierson^...  sister  of 
of  Acle,  co,  Rev.  Dr, 
Norfolk,  Sur-  Colville, 
geon  ;  no 
issue. 


Sophia=j= Joseph  Newson 
Pierson.  I  of  Glemham, 
co.  Suffolk. 


i  gent. 


John  Pier-  Mary  Pier-  Edmund  Goodwin  Pierson  of  Framlingham.  Had 

son,  bapt. at  son, bapt.  at  Royal  Licence.  21  June  1832,  to  assume  name  of 

Framling-  Framling-  Goodwyn  only,  in  accordance  with  the  will  of  his 

ham,  1807.  ham,  1809.  uncle,  Dr.  Edmund  Goodwyn. 


— r 


Sophia  Susanna  Pier¬ 
son,  bapt.  at  Fram¬ 
lingham,!  8  1 0 ;  buried 
there,  1811. 


Susanna  Pier¬ 
son,  bapt.  at 
Framlingham 
1812. 


- 1 

...  ux.Capt. 
Blomfieldof 
Wrentham, 
1829. 


1 


#ootitotn  of  J^artforti, 
Connerticut. 

The  paternity  of  William  Goodwin,  the  New  England  emigrant  of  1632,  has  not,  as  yet, 
been  definitely  ascertained,  but  it  is  probable  that  he  came  from  Braintree  or  Booking,  which 
together  form  one  long  street  in  the  county  of  Essex.  He  was  one  of  the  so-called  “  Braintree 
Company,”  which  Mr.  Hooker  followed  to  the  western  world.  Men  from  Braintree  were  amongst 
his  fellow  voyagers.  His  brother,  Ozias  Goodwin,  had  married  a  Braintree  woman.  A  William 
Goodwin  of  Booking,  who  may  well  have  been  himself,  was  son-in-law,  in  1617,  to  Robert 
White  of  Messingfu  Indeed,  Goodwins  in  some  number  had  lived  in  Booking  for  generations,  and 
had  continued  to  reside  there  until  his  day.  There  is  a  remarkable  coincidence,  too,  connected 
with  the  Christian  name  of  his  brother — Ozias.  Its  use  is  singularly  rare  ;  but  it  seems  to  have 
been  affected,  so  far  as  Suffolk  and  Essex  arc  concerned,  by  people  who  had  some  kind  of 
connection  with  Booking.  In  1618,  Ozias  Adams  was  owner  of  a  messuage  called  Potter’s  in 
Booking  which  had  descended  to  him  from  his  father.1  In  1663,  there  died  at  Booking  a  Richard 
Merrells,  apparently  of  the  same  stock  as  Ozias  Merrells,  the  father,  and  Ozias  Merrells,  the  son, 
of  the  Sudbury  family  of  that  name,  whilst  the  names  of  Ozias  Paske,  John  Adams  and  Richard 
Merrells  occur  in  significant  juxtaposition  as  kinsmen  and  devisees  of  Thomas  Hammond  of 
Hawkedon  in  1670.  A  township,  some  of  whose  inhabitants  were  surnamed  Goodwin,  and  others 
christened  Ozias,  is  not  unlikely,  one  would  think,  to  have  produced  the  Ozias  Goodwin  whose 
descendants  helped  to  people  Connecticut. 


Will  of  Eokrt  Woo&hmrft,  1640. 

The  seaven  &  twentieth  day  of  May,  in  the  sixteenth  yeare  of  our  Sovereigne  Lord  Charles, 
by  the  Grace  of  God  of  England  Ac.  King  :  I  Robert  Woodward  of  Brayntree  in  the  county  of 
Essex  doe  make  A  ordayne  this  my  last  will.  I  commend  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  God,  by  the 

merits  of  Jesus  Christ  my  blessed  redeemer,  in  assured  hope  to  inherit  yl  immortall  kingdome 

prepared  for  all  his  Ellect  people.  I  giue  unto  Mr  Collins  my  faithfull  paster  twenty  shillings.  Vnto 
my  sister  Rachel  Clay  the  wife  of  Myles  Clay  of  Brayntree  twenty  shillings.  Vnto  my  father  in 
law  Edward  Clay  my  best  cloake.  I  give  A  bequeath  unto  my  daughter  Mary  Goodwin,  the  wife 
-of  Ozias  Goodwin  now  in  New  England  tenne  shillings.  Unto  my  sonne  John  Woodward  tenne 
pounds  at  his  age  of  one  A  twenty  yeare.  The  rest  of  my  goods  I  giue  to  Joane  Woodward  my 

wife,  and  doe  appointe  the  said  Jone  sole  A  alone  executrixe.  And  intreat  my  good  friend  and 

brother  Myles  Clay  to  bee  my  suprovisor.  Probate  fuit  apud  Brancktree  xi  Julij  1640  iuramto 
extricis. 


1  Exchequer  Bills,  James  I,  Essex,  No,  268. 


230 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(Socfototit  of  ©artfort),  Connecticut. 


....  Goodwill.  Of  the= 
Goodwins,  probably,  of 
Suffolk  or  Essex. 


Robert  Woodward  of  Braintree,1 
Essex,  made  Will  27  May  16th 
Chas.  1640. 


Wiliiani  Goodwin,  Ruling  Elder  of  Church  in" 
Newtown  and  Hadley,  Mass.,  &  Hartford,  Conn. 
Sailed  from  London,  1632,  one  of  the  “  Braintree 
Company  one  of  the  founders  of  Hartford, 
Connecticut ;  described  by  Governor  Winthrop 
in  1634  as  a  reverend  and  godly  man  ;  died  1673. 


=Susanna,  ff^robably 
2d  wife  ;  first  named 


in  deeds  dated 
uary  1669-70. 


Jan- 


:.  .  .  daughter,  probably,  of 
Edward  Clay,  and  sister  of 
Miles  Clav- 


U- 


Ozias  Goodwin  of  Hartford, = 
Conn.,  born  in  England, 
1596  ;  believed  to  have  been 
younger  than  his  brother 
William ;  died  1683,  aged 
about  87. 


- 1 

=Mary  Woodward,  described  by 
her  father  in  1640  as  “  Mary  Good¬ 
win,  the  wife  of  Ozias  Goodwin, 
now  in  New  England;”  died  before 
her  husband. 


Elizabeth1 
Goodwin, 
only  child, 
survived 
her  hus¬ 
band. 


=John  Crow 
ofHartford, 
Conn.,  died 
1686  ;  nu¬ 
merous  de¬ 
scendants. 


/N 


WilliamGoodwin,= 
eldest  son,  born 
about  1629,  of 
Hartford,  Conn. ; 
died  there  15  Oct. 
1689,  left  three 
children. 


=Susanna,  sis¬ 
ter  of  Sarah 
Fruen,  she 
re- married 
John  Shep¬ 
herd  in  1691. 


Sarah,  daugh-= 
terofJohnColes 
of  Hatfield, 
Mass.,  1st  wife, 
died  1676.  M.I. 
in  graveyard. 


^Nathaniel  Good-=^  Elizabeth, 


win  of  Hartford, 
Conn.,  born 
aboutl637 ;  died 
8  Jan.  1713. 


daughter  of 
Daniel  Pratt 
of  Hartford, 
Conn  ;  living 
July  1724. 


Hannah.born  about  1639  ;  mar¬ 
ried  1661  William  Pitkin  of 
Hartford,  Conn.,  Attorney  and 
afterwardsTreasurer  of  the  Col¬ 
ony  of  Connecticut.  She  died 
12  February  1724,  aged  85. 
M.I.  in  graveyard  there. 


Nathaniel  Good-=f=Mehetable, 
win  of  Hartford, 

Conn., died  Nov¬ 
ember  1747  ; 

Deacon  of  first 
Congregational 
Church,  1734 — 

1747. 


_ i 


Nathauiel-f-Sarah,  2d  wife,  SamuelGoodwin=j=Marv  Steele.  Ozias  Goodwin  of- 


daughter  of 

Goodwin  of 

daughter  of 

of  Hartford, 

daughter  of 

Hartford,  Conn., 

Samuel  Por¬ 

Hartford, 

John  Easton  ; 

Conn.,  born  22 

Lieut.  James 

born  26  Junel689; 

ter  of  Had¬ 

Conn.,  born 

born  15  Nov. 

Aug.1682  ;  mar¬ 

Steele  of 

married  6  J  une 

ley,  Mass.  ; 

July  1665  ; 

1675  ;  married 

ried  1 8  March 

Hartford, 

1723.  Deacon  first 

she  died  6 

died  12  March 

14  Sept.  1699  ; 

1707-8  ;  died  23 

Conn. 

Congregational 

Feb.  1726. 

1746. 

died  2  Jan. 
1740. 

January  1711-2. 

Church  1756  to 
death  26  Jan.1776. 

-Martha  Wil¬ 
liamson, d  augh- 
ter  of  Capt. 
Caleb  William¬ 
son  ;  born  13 
February 17  00 ; 
died  8  Feb¬ 
ruary  1777. 


Stephen  Good¬ 
win  of  Sims¬ 
bury,  Conn., 
baptized  24 
Aug.  1701;  died 
5  Dec.  1785, 
fet.  85. 


=Sarah,  daugh¬ 
ter  of  Joseph 
Gillet  of  Hart¬ 
ford,  Conn.  ; 
married27June 
1727;  died  24 
Oct.  179  2,  fet.  8  8 


Daniel  Goodwin  of 
Hartford  Conn., 
born  15  Jan.  1705; 
died  6  Jan.  1772. 
Deacon  First  Con- 
gregationalChuroh 
1769-72. 


= Dorothy, 
daughter 
of  John 
Cole  ; 
died  Oct. 
1746,  tot. 
26. 


Samuel  Goodwin- 
ofHartford,  Conn., 
born  10  Oct.  1710; 
married  2  Jan. 
1750-1  ;  died  30 
September  1776. 


I 


J.aodamia  Mer- 
rell  of  Hart¬ 
ford,  Conn., 
born  28  Jan. 
1728-9  ;  buried 
6  May  1790. 


Jonathan  Goodwin=j 
of  Hartford, Conn.,  I 
born  1733,  married 
26  Nov.  1761  ; 
died  2  Sept.  1811  ; 
had  three  child¬ 


ren. 


:Eunice,  daughter 
of  Joseph  and 
Eunice  Olcott,  of 
Hartford,  Conn., 
born  3  October 
1736  ;  died  23 
March  1807. 


Stephen  Goodwin=j= Abigail  Gillet, 


of  Goshen,  Conn., 
born  16  Sept.1734; 
died  30  July  1788. 
a  Captain  under 
Washington  1776. 


maried  16  Ap¬ 
ril  1752  ;  re¬ 
married  1791, 
John  Ensign. 


Nathaniel  Good¬ 
win  of  Hartford, 
Conn.,  baptized 
13  Nov.  1743  ; 
died  20  Feb. 
1782. 


-Anna  Shel¬ 
don,  daugh¬ 
ter  of  Isaac 
Sheldon, 

I  died  4  Feb. 
1823,  fet.  73. 


George  Goodwin  of  Hart¬ 
ford, Conn., born7  January 
1757  ;  died  13  May  1844. 
Publisher,  also  proprietor 
and  editor,  “  Connecticut 
Couraut,”  1777-1825. 


James  Goodwin  of: 
Hartford,  Conn.,  born 
27  Dec.  1777  ;  died  13 
Sept.  1844.  Lieut  and 
Capt.  First  Governor’s 
Foot  Guards. 


-Eunice,  daughter  of 
Capt.  LemuelRoberts 
of  Simsbury  Coun. 
born  22  Aug.  1774 
married  3  Mar.  1799 
died  13  Aug.  1825. 


Dr.  Daniel- 
Good  win  of 
Geneva,  On¬ 
tario,  Co.  N.Y. 
a  Physician  ; 
born  1769  ; 
died  22  Sept¬ 
ember  1825, 


_ i 

-Lucretia, 
daughter  of 
John  Collins, 
born  20  Jan. 
1779  ;  mar¬ 
ried  3  Jan. 
1799  ;  died  4 
Dec.  1807. 


Nathaniel  Goodwin  of 
Hartford,  Conn., born 5 
March  1782  ;  died  29 
May  1 855.  Treasurer 
City  of  Hartford,  1818- 
53  ;  Treasurer  Town  of 
Hartford,  1835-54  ; 
Judge  of  Probate  ;  An¬ 
tiquary  &  Genealogist. 


Jonathan  Goodwin,1 
born  23  Dec.  1799; 
died  8  Oct.  1877  ; 
Capt.  and  Major  1st 
Company  Governors 
Foot  Guards.  Re¬ 
presentative  to 
State  Legislature 
1836. 


Clarinda,  daugh¬ 
ter  of  John  New¬ 
berry  of  East 
Windsor,  Conn., 
born  1  Jan.  1800; 
married  7  June 
1826  ;  died  5 
May  1866. 


k 


J atnesGoodwin  of  Hart¬ 
ford,  Conn., born2  March 
1803  ;  died  15  March 
1878.  Major  1st  Com¬ 
pany  Governor’s  Horse 
Guards,  1829-33;  Pres. 
Conn.  Mutual  Life  In¬ 
surance  Co.,  1848-65, 
1869-78. 


Lucy,  daughter  of 
Joseph  Morgan  of 
West  Springfield, 
Mass.  ;  born  4 
Feb.  1811  ;  mar¬ 
ried  30  July  1832; 
i  died  19  September 
1890. 


DanielGoodwin  of  De¬ 
troit,  Michigan,  born 
24  Nov.  1799  ;  died 
24  Aug.  1887.  Judge 
of  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Michigan. 


Stephen  Austin  Goodwin 
of  Chicago,  Illinois,  born 
26  Nov.  1807  ;  died  13 
May  1879;  UnitedStates 
District  Attorney  for 
Illinois. 


James  Junius  Good-=pJosephineSarah,  Francis  Goodwin, ^Mary  Alsop  Jackson, 


win  of  Hartford, 
Conn.,  born  16  Sep¬ 
tember  1835  ;  mar¬ 
ried  19  June  1873. 


daughter  of 
Joshua  Ballin¬ 
ger  Lippincott 
of  Philadelphia. 


A 


M.A.,  Archdeacon  of 
Hartford,  Conn.  ; 
born  25  Sept.  1 839  ; 
had,  with  other  issue, 
a  son.  /R 


daughter  of  Commo¬ 
dore  Chas.  Hunter 
Jackson.  U.S.N.  ; 
married  3  June  1863. 


#oottotn  of  ftflarlcsforti. 


(Util  of  fames  (Kooilfoin,  1650. 

I  James  Goodwyn  of  Rendham  in  the  county  of  Suff(j  gent,  upon  the  eighteenth  day  of 
June  1650  doe  make  this  my  last  will,  believing  that  as  my  body  dyeth  in  corruption,  soc  at  the 
second  comeing  of  Christ  my  soule  and  body  shall  rise  in  incorruption,  and  asend  vp  into  the 
heaven  and  there  inioy,  with  my  blessed  Saviour,  all  happines  for  evermore.  I  give  all  my  bowses 
<fc  lands  in  Rendham  vnto  my  sonne  James  and  Joane  his  wife,  charging  him  in  the  name  of  a 
father  that  he  suffer  them  to  descend  vnto  John  Goodwyn  his  eldest  sonne.  I  give  vnto  my  sonne 
James  Goodwyn  my  lands  and  tenements  called  Cwoodwell  in  Carleton  if  he  shall  release  by  Deed  all 
his  right  to  my  messuages,  etc.,  in  Martlesham,  Vnto  George  Goodwin  my  sonne  my  messuages, 
Ac.,  in  Martlesham,  and  also  twelve  loades  of  heath  yearly,  to  be  taken  vpon  the  heath  ground  vpon 
the  sheepe  walk  of  my  couzen  William  Goodwyn  gent  belonging  to  Martlesham  Hall,  which  twelve 
loades  of  heath  were  granted  vnto  me  and  my  heires  by  ffrances  Noone  gent.  Vnto  my  sonne 
John  Goodwyn  the  suihe  of  two  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  Henry  Goodwyn  my  sonne  my  lands 
and  tenements  in  Brusyeard,  and  if  Heury  my  sonne  be  dead  without  issue  I  give  said  lands 
vnto  James  my  sonne,  and  after  his  decease  vnto  James  his  youngest  sonne,  my  grandchild.  I 
give  my  lease  and  interest  in  the  Mannors  of  Melton  cum  Ufford  and  Kingston  to  my  executor 
to  sell  or  keepe  the  same  at  his  choyce  and  election.  All  the  rest  of  my  goods  I  give  vnto 
my  sonne  George  whom  I  appoint  sole  executor.  To  every  one  of  the  children  of  my  brother 
John  Bossett  and  to  Rose  the  wife  of  .  .  .  Hill  of  Wickham  Markett  ffeltmaker  forty  shillings 
apiece.  Unto  the  poore  twenty  pounds.  I  charge  my  said  sonns  James,  John  and  George  that 
they  live  loveingly  and  kindly  together  in  the  feare  of  God.  Probatum  octavo  die  Novembris 
1650  Juramento  Georgii  Goodwyn.  P.C.C.  177  Pembroke. 


WtU  nf  lames  (Sbo&hmt,  1664. 

I  James  Goodwyn  of  Rendham  in  the  county  of  Sufff  gent  ordeine  this  to  bee  my  last 
will.  I  doe  giue  my  soul  into  the  hands  of  God  my  maker  A  Jesus  Christ  my  redeemor  hopeing 
of  a  ioyefull  resurreccon  in  the  lif  to  come.  Vnto  John  Goodwyn,  my  eldest  sonne,  my  mancon 
bowse  &  howsen  with  all  the  lands  belonging,  and  the  hether  church  close  &  Pitmore  close  w,h 
my  wife  was  iniountered  in  for  the  terme  of  her  life.  I  doe  giue  vnto  my  sonne  John  the  further 


232 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


church  close  \vch  was  conveighed  on  vnto  fower  of  my  wines  children,  to  pay  them  threscore  pounds 
a  peece,  but  one  of  them  is  dead,  but  Hanna,  ffrancis  and  Phillip  Perryman  is  nowe  liueing.  Vnto 
my  sonne  John  all  moueables  &c.  and  the  table  in  the  gallery  woh  was  giuen  vnto  my  wife  by  her 
daughter  Katherine  decesed.  My  sonne  John  shall  conveigh  his  interest  in  the  meadows  and 
hempland  in  Marlesford,  nexte  the  bowse  which  my  sonne  James  hath  in  the  right  of  his  mother, 
to  his  brother  James  &  to  his  lieires.  I  doe  giue  vnto  my  sonne  John  the  32th  pte  of  a  shipp 
called  the  Vanity.  Vnto  my  sonne  John  my  Dannish  colte  &  my  sorrell  mare  wth  a  nevve  saddle, 
my  ring  watch  &  all  the  goods  wcL  I  brought  wth  me  to  Rend  ham  when  I  married.  Vnto  my 
sonne  James  all  that  mancon  bowse  or  howsen  wth  all  the  lands  in  Brusyard.  Vnto  my  sonne 
James  a  partable  howse  lyinge  in  Wodbridgc  in  the  occupacoh  of  the  widdowe  Cotteway.  Vnto 
my  sonne  James  my  sihil  tobacco  box  wth  a  little  roundc  table  in  the  hall.  I  doe  make  my 
lovinge  sonne  John  Goodwin  executo'  and  Mr  George  Gurton  supuisor.  I  doe  giue  Gabriel  Reve 
my  brother  in  lawe  twenty  shillings  :  to  twoe  of  my  wines  children  viz*,  Jonas  and  ffrancis  ffiue 
shillings  a  peece  and  to  Phillipp  Perryman  my  godsonne  tenne  shillings  :  chargeing  my  two  sonnes 
to  liue  in  the  feare  of  god  &,  to  love  one  another.  The  twentieth  day  of  June  1G6L  Probatum 
primo  May  1667  iuramento  Job  is  Goodwyn.  From  the  original  will,  Arch  Suff. 


®oobtotn  of  ©ebacf)  anb  of  i&mbbam. 


From  the  Suffolk  Visitation,  166  4. 


Edmund  Gooding  of  TFoodbridgez 
in  Com.  Suff. 


James  Gooding  of  Rendham^  Eliz.  da.  of  .  .  .  Palmer  of 


in  Com.  Suff. 


in  Com.  Nor/. 


_ l 


George  Gooding  of  Debach  in=j=Eliz.  da.  of  John  Coggeshall 
Com.  Suff.,  gt,  1664 ■  of  Orford  in  Com.  Suff. 


James,  sonne  is  heire,  eet.  16,  Ano  1664.  Mary. 

(Signed)  George  Gooding. 


Edmund  Gooding  of  IT oodbridge- f= 
in  Com.  Suff'. 


James  Gooding  of  .  . 


James  Gooding  of  Rendham=f=Joane ,  da.  of  John  Cooke  of 


in  Com.  Suff.,  gt,  1664- 


Marlcs/oi  d. 


John  Gooding  of  Rendham,  gt,  1664 ■  James. 

(Signed)  James  Gooding. 


Arms  of  Goodwin  of  Debach,  Or  a  fess  between  six  lions’  heads  erased  gules  ;  a  crescent  for  difference. 
Crest.  A  griffin  sejant,  wings  expanded  or,  guttee  de  poix,  claws  and  beak  sable.  Note,  “ per  Raven,  per  Robt  Cooke, 
1576."  The  arms  of  Gooding  of  Rendham  are  not  recorded. 

Extracted  from  the  Visitation  of  Suffolk,  Anno  1664,  and  examined  therewith  this  13th  day  of  December,  1895. 

Charles  H.  Athill, 

Richmond  Herald. 


GOODWIN  OF  MARLESFORD. 


233 


Sootitotn  of  jflarlesforti. 


Edmund  Goodwin  of  Woodbridge,  co.  Suffolk,  Bysshe, -- 
living  there  1573,  bur.  9  July  1612  ;  Admon.  Arch.  Suff. 
24  J uly  same  year  to  Anne  Goodwin  his  relict.  A  descend¬ 
ant,  probably,  of  Matthew  Gooding  of  Blaxhall. 


-Anne  or  Annis,  named  in  the  Woodbridge 
Registers,  1573 — 1581  ;  had  lands  in  Glem- 
ham  Parva  and  Marlesford  in  her  own  right, 
Gooding  et  Gooding,  Close  Roll,  6  Jas.  43. 


George  Goodwin, 
bapt.  at  Wood- 
bridge.1573;  living 
there,  1608.  Good¬ 
ing  et  Gooding, 
Close  Roll,  6  Jas.  43. 


James  Goodwin  of  Woodbridge,  gent.,  1624,  (7oodw£n=pElizabeth,  dau.  of 


c.  Frere,  Jas.  I,  B  &  A  ._bapt.  there  1575.  Of  Rend- 
ham,  co.  Suff.,  18  June  1650,  when  he  made  Will. 
P.C.C.  177  Pembroke,  proved  8  Nov.  same  year  ; 
naming  Win.  Goodwin,  gent.,  of  Martlesham  Hall, 
his  cousin.  Bought  lands  in  Rendham,  16  Jas.  Fine. 


Palmer,  Esq., 
of  Norfolk.  Bysshe. 
Candler. 


William  Goodwin,  bapt. 
at  Woodbridge,  1577. 

Thomas  Goodwin,  bapt. 
at  Woodbridge,  1579. 


Alice,  bapt. 
at  Wood- 
bridge, 
1581. 


Frances, 2d  wife,= 
stepmother  to 
John  Goodwin, 
1671;  relict  of 
.  .  .  Perryman, 
by  whom  she 
had  issue  Fran¬ 
cis, Philip, Louis, 
Hannah  &  Kath¬ 
erine  Perryman. 


= James  Goodwin  of= 
Rendham,  gent., 
1664,  s.  and  h.  ; 
entered  ped.  in  the 
Suffolk  Visitation 
of  that  year;  ofPet- 
tistree, gent.,  1638. 
Goodwin  c.  Dove. 
Will,  Arch  Suff. 
20  June  1664, 
proved  1  May  1 667. 


: Joan,  dau.  and  coll, 
of  John  Cooke  of 
Marlesford,  Bysshe, 
whose  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  is  dated  26 
Feb.  1637.  Kath¬ 
erine  Cooke,  her 
sister,  mar.  Ed¬ 
mund  Dove  of 
Coddenham. 


- t~l - 

William,  s  p., 
Candler,  bapt. 
at  Wo  od- 
bridge,  1606. 


Edmund, 
bapt.atWood- 
bridge,  1610. 


George  Goodwin, = 
younger  son,  of  De- 
bach, co.  Suff. .gent. 
1664  ;  bapt.  at 
Woodbridge,  1615; 
entered  peOigree 
in  the  Suffolk  Visi¬ 
tation  1664  ;  devi¬ 
see  of  John  Good¬ 
win,  his  nephew, 
1671. 


JolinGoodwin  of  Rend-- 
ham,  gent.,  eldest  son, 
1664;  Will.  Arch.  Suff., 
17Dec.  1671,  proved  26 
April  1672  ;  ob.  s.p. 
Lands  in  Woodbridge, 
Marlesford,&c. .  to  J  ames 
Goodwin,  his  brother. 


=Mary,  only  dau.  of= 
John  Lawrence  by 
Anne,  his  wife,  one 
of  the  three  sisters 
and  co-heirs  of 
John  Hill.  Conrt 
Books  ot  Thorpe 
Hall  in  Hasketon. 


-Oliver  Clenclie, 
2d  husband, 
1677.  Court 
Rolls  o  f  Kings- 
hall  Manor  in 
Clopton. 


James  Goodwin  of  Marlesford, 
gent.,  brother  and  heir  of  J  ohn 
1671;  Will,  Arch.  Suff.  23 Oct. 
1680  ;  prob.  9  May  1682  ;  to 
be  bur.  by  his  mother  in  the 
church.  Lands  in  Rendham  & 
Carleton.  Youngest  son.  Bur¬ 
ied  at  Marlesfoid  3  April  1682. 


:Elizabeth.diu. 
of  John  Cog- 
geshall  of  Or- 
ford.  Bysshe. 
ElizabethCog- 
geshall,  her 
mother,  made 
Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  22  Sept. 
1653. 


1  1 

Henry 
Goodwin, 
devisee  of 
his  father, 
A°  1650. 

Thomas, 
bapt.  at 
Wood- 
bridge!614. 


John  Goodwin,, 
bapt.  at  Wood- 
bridge,  1611 ;  of 
Wickham  Mar¬ 
ket  27  Oct.  1676, 
when  he  made 
Will,  Arch,  Suff. 
proved  14  Dec. 
same  year. 


Elizabeth  Goodwin, =Thomas  Knowles 
sole  da.  and  li.,  1671  ;  of  Walton,  co.  Suf- 
was  Elizabeth  Knowles, 

1680,  and  had  title  to 
lands  in  Rendham  and 
Marlesford. 


folk,  1676  ;  of 
Marlesford,  1680. 


John  Goodwin,  eldest  son, 
devisee  of  his  grandfather, 
James  Goodwin,  in  1650  ; 
died  sans  issue.  Court 
Rolls  oj  Sxoeffling  Camp- 
sey. 


James  Goodwin  of  Pettestree,  co.  Suffolk, =j=Anna,  dau.  of  John— John  Warre 


gent.  ;  aged  16  in  1664  ;  cousin  and  heir  of 
James  Goodwin  of  Marlesford,  1680.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  dated  23  Jan.  1693  ;  names 
brother-in-law  Richard  Coveil ;  died  28  Feb. 
1693;  buriedat  Marlesford,  3  March  following. 


Jeaffreson  of  Clop¬ 
ton, co  Suffolk, gent. 
She  died  12  April 
1701.  Hawes  MB., 
quoted  by  Davy. 


of  Campsey 
Ash,  second 
husband. 
Hawes  MS. 


- 1 

Mary  Goodwin,  1664,  Bysshe, 
devisee  of  John  Goodwin,  her 
cousin,  1671  ;  wife  of  John 
Butler  of  Southwark,  gent. 
1680  ;  wife  of  Richard  Coveil, 
1693. 


Aline,  dau.  of  Allen  Cotton  of  Marlesford,=pJohn  Goodwin  of  =f  Catherine,  dau.  of  Simon 


Esq.,  by  Frances,  dau.  of  Thos.  Smith  of 
Marlesford,  gent.,  and  Frances,  his  wife, 
dau.  of  Simon  Blomfield  of  Coddenham. 
Hawes  MS.  Mar.  at  Marlesford,  27  Nov. 
1696  ;  buried  there  10  March  169^. 


Marlesford,  gent., 
son  and  heir,  devisee 
1716  of  Simon  Dove, 
his  wife’s  father. 


Doveof Hadleigh,co  Suffolk 
Esq-,  Lord  of  the  Manor  of 
Marlesford,  2d  wife.  His 
Will,  P.C.C.  Ill  Whitfield, 
w’as  made  1716,  proved  1717. 


- 1 — 1 - 

James  Goodwin,  bur¬ 
ied  at  Marlesford, 
1695. 

George  Goodwin,  bapt. 
at  Marlesford,  1 682. 


- 1 

Elizabeth 
Goodwin,  bap. 
at  Marlesford, 
19  July  1686. 


Allen  Goodwin  of  Marlesford,  gent., 
son  and  heir ;  bapt.  there  22  Oct. 
1697  ;  Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  23  May 
1766,  proved  27  Dec.  following  ; 
lands  in  Marlesford  and  Martle¬ 
sham  to  James  Goodwin,  his  bro¬ 
ther  ;  died  set.  69  ;  buried  23 
Dec.  1766. 


James  Goodwin  of  Had-=j=Bridget, 


leigh,  co.  Suffolk,  Sur¬ 
geon  ;  heir  to  Allen  Good¬ 
win.  his  brother,  1766  ; 
bapt  at  Marlesford  6  Jan. 
1705;  bur.  there  11  May 
1769.  See  Marlesford 
Deeds,  Davy  MS. 


living 

1766. 


Anna  Maria,  bapt. 
1 7  04,  wife  of  Sam¬ 
uel  Warre  of  Box- 
ford.  co.  Suffolk, 
and  had  dau  Anna 
Maria  Taylor, 
widow,  1766. 


- 1 — | - 

Simon  Goodwin, 
of  Hartford,  co. 
Kent.  Surgeon, 
Will,  P.C.C.  264 
Brooke,  1  Sept. 
1726  ;  pbt  1728. 

John  Goodwin. 


— ~  n — 1 

Elizabeth,  bapt.  at 
Marlesford,  1707; 
buried  1 7 1  8. 

Catherine,  bapt. 
at  Marlesford, 
1702;  buried  1704. 


L 


John  Goodwin  of  Hadleigh,  Surgeon  ;  trustee  of=f-Elizabeth.  James  Good- 
Devereux’s  Charity  at  Marlesford.  1766.  Will,  win,  2d  son, 

P.C.C.  357  Hay,  1  June  1778,  proved  1  Sept.  1766. 

same  year. 


Allen  Goodwin,  3d  son,  whom  Bridget,  Elizabeth, 
Allen  Goodwin,  his  uncle,  living  living  a° 

named  as  heir  presumptive  in  1766.  1766. 

1766. 


John  Goodwin,  under  age  1778  ;  to  have  his  father’s  lands  ill  Hadleigh, 
Marlesford  and  Martlesham  when  21. 


Elizabeth. 


2  G 


#oothotn  of  §s>tont)am  Jfarba, 


®Stll  of  ®I)cntao  (Stmttkmt,  1635. 

The  will  of  Thomas  Goodwyn  of  litle  Stonham  in  the  county  of  Suff.  Esquier  written 
with  his  owne  hand.  I  bequeath  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  my  gracious  God  in  Christ  J  esus. 
I  doe  charge  my  executor  as  he  shall  aunswere  it  at  the  dreadful  day  of  Judgment  to  pay  all  my 
iust  debts  to  one  penny.  If  my  executor  cannot  pay  my  debts  within  a  convenient  tyme  hee  shall 
make  sale  of  my  landes  in  Stoweupland  and  Gipping  as  also  my  lease  in  Earlstonham.  I  geue  vnto 
John  Goodwyn  my  sonne  my  houses  and  lands  in  East  Tuddenham  &  Coulton  within  the  county 
of  Norff.  I  geue  vnto  Anne  Goodwyn  my  daughter  six  hundred  pounds  out  of  the  proffitts  of  my 
Mannor  of  S6  Omers  in  Burwell  within  the  county  of  Cambridge.  Vnto  Bartram  Goodwyn  my 
sonne  the  advowson  of  Stanningfeld  within  the  county  of  Suff.  Vnto  Edward  Goodwyn  my  sonne 
my  interest  in  the  fishing  voyage  with  the  right  honourable  Phillipp,  Earle  of  Pembrocke,  the  said 
Edward  making  payment  of  the  residue  of  the  money  which  remaynes  behind  of  my  vnderwrighting. 
Vnto  Ambrose  my  sonne  all  the  right  in  the  Salt  pannes  or  works  which  I  have  purchased  at  the 
South  &  North  Shields  within  the  counties  of  Durham  &  Northumberland  as  alsoe  my  interest  in 
the  company  of  the  Saltmakers,  provided  that  he  doe  pay  vnto  my  daughter  Anne  in  increase  of  her 
porcon  formerly  geven  vnto  her  the  some  of  flower  hundred  poundes.  I  geue  vnto  Dorothy 
Rookwood  my  daughter  three  hundred  poundes.  Vnto  Bartram  my  sonne  twoe  hundred  poundes. 
Vnto  Edward  my  sonne  five  hundred  poundes.  I  geue  vnto  Thomas  Watson  my  old  servant  twenty 
nobles  a  yeere  during  his  life  out  of  my  lease  in  Poyers  in  Mendelsham  hopeing  he  wilbe  a  faithfull 
servant  vnto  my  sonne  as  hee  hath  bene  vnto  mee.  Vnto  the  children  of  George  Buckenham,  late  of 
Bradfeild  St  Clare’s,  ffortie  pounds,  in  performance  of  a  trust  by  their  ffather  reposed  in  mee.  I  doe 
ordaine  Ambrose  Goodwyn  my  sonne  my  sole  executor.  Alsoe  I  doe  make  my  especiall  frendes 
Harbottle  Wingfield  Esquire  and  John  Sheppard  of  Mendelsham  gent  to  bee  the  Supervisors  and 
doe  geue  to  each  of  them  tenn  poundes  to  buy  them  a  peece  of  plate  in  remembrance  of  my 
loue  to  them.  Last  I  geue  vnto  Mr  Wragg  the  Minister  of  Mendelsham  ffive  poundes  to  preach 
at  my  buryall  if  God  call  mee  within  the  the  county  of  Suff.  I  subscribed  my  hand  this  thre 
&  twentieth  day  of  January  1635.  If  it  please  the  Lord  to  bring  mee  back  againe  from  my 
iourney  I  entend  to  make  this  my  will  more  perfect.  Probatum  25  Aprilis  1638,  Juramento 
Ambrosii  Goodwyn  filij.  P.C.C.  39  Lee. 

By  his  Inquisition  post  mortem  (Escli.  14  Car.  3,  80),  taken  at  Eye  on  the  tenth  of  September 
in  the  fourteenth  year  of  Charles  the  First,  Thomas  Goodwin  was  found  to  have  been  seized  of  the 
Manors  of  Stoneliam  Jernegan  and  Mendlesham  in  Suffolk,  Belhouse  in  North  Tuddenham  in  Norfolk, 
Tomers  alias  Thomers  in  Cambridgeshire,  and  Appleton  super  Wiske  in  Yorkshire.  He  died  so 
siezed  on  the  third  of  April,  1638,  Ambrose  Goodwin,  his  son  and  heir,  being  then  aged  forty  years 
and  upwards. 


GOODWIN  OF  STONHAM  PARVA. 


235 


<&oot>totn  of  §s>tonIjam  ;|iarba. 


Roger  Goodwin  of  Stonham.  Blois.- 


.  .  Westcott.  Arg.  a  fess  gu:  in  chief  three 
covered  cups  of  the  last.  Blois. 


Thomas  Goodwin  of  Stonham  Parva  in  com.  Suffolk.  Rarl.- 
MS.  1534.  Of  Mattishall,  co.  Norfolk,  Bachelor  of  Laws, 
29  May  1569  when  he  made  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  proved 
10  Aug.  following.  Rector  of  Bressingham,  1547  ;  after 
Vicar  of  Mattishall  ;  Commissary  for  the  Archdeacon  of  Nor¬ 
folk  1556,  and  for  the  Archdeaconry  of  Norwich  1563. 


:Anne  daughter  of  John  Hyckes  or  Ricks  of 
Mattishall.  Harl.  MS.  1534 •  Named  1569 
in  her  husband's  will.  This  marriage  was 
disallowed  temp.  Queen  llary,  her  husband 
being  in  priest’s  orders  ;  in  1573  her  son  is 
styled  Theodore  Goodwyn  al’s  Kycks. 


Roger  Goodwin,  devisee  of  Thomas 
Goodwin  in  1569,  who  requests  his 
wife  to  be  good  to  him  “  my  poor 
and  lame  brother.”  Joined  Theo¬ 
dore  Goodwin,  22  Eliz.,  in  the  sale 
of  the  Manor  of  Stonham  Parva. 


it"" . 

Anne  Goodwin,  mar. 
at  Burwell,  Cambridge¬ 
shire,  14  Oct.  1570  to 
Thomas  Folkes. 

Jonas  Turner  &  Mary 
Goodwin,  mar.  at  Ston¬ 
ham  16  Nov.  1567. 


Theodore  Goodwin  of  Stonham1 
Parva,  Esq.  Harl.  MS.  1534. 
Feodary  of  Norfolk.  Blois.  Lord 
of  the  Manors  of  Bel  house  in  North 
Tuddenliam,  co.  Norff.  ;  of  Ston¬ 
ham  Parva,  co.  Suff. ;  of  Wiske, 
co.  Yorke;  of  St.  Omers,  co.  Camb., 
&c.  Inq.  p  m.  16  Jas.;  ob.  23 
July  15  Jas. 


;Anne  da.  and  co-heir  of  Thomas  Folkes  of  Bur- 
well,  co.  Camb.  Harl.  MS.  1534-  Who  names 
her  and  her  husband  in  his  Will,  P  C  C.  42 
Rutland,  20  April  1588  ;  mar.  at  Burwell  12 
Dec.  1573.  Theodore  Goodwyn  al’s  Rycks 
passed  his  Manor  of  Stonham  Parva  to  Thos. 
Folkes  and  others  by  Fine,  Mich.  21  &  22  Eliz. 
See  Grene  c.  Goodwyn ,  Eliz.  B  &  A,  for  the 
daughters  of  Thomas  Folkes. 


Jarmy  Goodwin  of  Norwich, 
gent. ,  kinsman  of  Thomas  Good¬ 
win  of  Little  Stonham.  In  his 
Will,  Arch.  Norwich,  26  Aug. 
1612,  proved  7  Oct.  1612,  are 
bequests  to  Dorothy  and  Anne, 
the  daughters  of  Thomas  Good¬ 
win,  Theodore  Goodwin  being  a 
witness. 


Anne,  caughter=j=Thomas  Goodwin  of  Stonham  Parva, =f  Dorothy,  da 


of 


of  Orrell  of 
Lawshall  ; 
Gillingham , 
Cant.”  Blois. 
Adm.  16  Feb. 
1634  P.C  C.,  to 
Thos.  Goodwin, 
her  husband, 


Esq.,  son  and  heir,  set.  40,  and  up¬ 
wards  1617.  Will  P.C.C.  39  Lee  23 
Jan.  1635,  proved  25  April-1638.  Inq. 
p  m.  14  Car.  ;  Manors  of  St.  Omers 
in  Burwell,  co.  Camb.,  and  of  Bel- 
house  in  N.  Tuddenham,  co.  Norff., 
and  of  Mendelsham,  co.  Suff. ;  ob.  3 
April  14  Car. ;  bur.  4  April  1638. 


John  Goodwin, 
to  whom  his 
father  devised 
lauds  in  East 
Tuddenham  and 
Coulton,  co. 
Norff.  1635. 


Nathaniel, 
died  in  in¬ 
fancy.  Blois. 
bapt.  with 
his  brother 
John  3  Mar. 
1617. 


Theodore, 
named  in  his 
father's  will, 
Admon. 
P.C.C.  ;  bapt. 
at  Stonham, 
1597. 


and  coh.  of  A  daughter. 
Bertram  Calthrop,  Esq  ;  =.  .  .  elk. 

mar.  settlement  8  May  39  of  Norff. 
Eliz.  Her  sister  mar.  Am-  Blois. 

brose  Duke,  Esq.,  at  Stoll-  — 

ham  1599.  Margaret  Cal-  A  daughter, 
throp,  her  mother,  4  Aug.  =.  .  .  Shax- 
1 607  in  Will  Cur.  Kp.  Norw.  ley.  Blois. 

names  her  &  her  husband. 


1  r 

Theodore 
Goodwin,  2d 
sou,  39  Jiliz. 

Edward 
Goodwin,  4  th 
son,  16  Jas. 


Roger  Goodwin  of  Stan¬ 
ton,  16  Jas.,  3d  son,  39 
Eliz, ;  had  two  daughters. 
Blois.  John  Richmond  of 
Hedenham,  Norff.,  mar. 
Mary,  da.  of  Roger  Good¬ 
win  of  Stonham,  and  died 
6  Feb.  15Chas.  Blomefield, 
x,  144. 


EdwardGood- 
win,  named 
1 635  in  his 
father’s  will ; 
of  London. 
Blois,  Bapt.  6 
Jan.  1604. 


Bartram  Goodwin, 
ob.  adol.  Blois. 
Bapt.  6  Dec.  1601. 

Thomas  Goodwin, 
of  London.  Blois. 
Bapt.  13  Feb., 1602. 


Anne  or  A  my, 
ux.  .  .  .  Rook- 
wood,  brother  of 
Edward  Rook- 
wood,  who  mar¬ 
ried  her  sister  ; 
bapt.  at  Ston¬ 
ham  1  Jan.  1607. 


Dorothy,  ux.  Ed¬ 
ward  Rookwood 
of  Euston,  co. 
Suff.  Blois. Nich¬ 
olas  Rookwood, 
their  son,  wras 
bapt.  at  Ston¬ 
ham,  1629. 


- 1 

Mary,ux. 
John 
Rich¬ 
mond  of 
Heden¬ 
ham,  co. 
Norff. 


Bertram  Goodwin,  to  whom  his= 
father  left  the  advowson  of 
Stanningfield,  1635.  Rector  of 
Earl  Stonham  and  Stonham 
Parva  on  presentation  of  Thos. 
Goodwin  of  Euston,  Esq  ,  1634  ; 
Rector  of  Stanningfield,  1637, 


-  Bridget,  sister  of  Dorothy  Heigham  ; 
made  will  as  Bridget  Goodwin  of 
Creeting,  All  Saints,  widow,  P.C.C. 
373  Pell,  3  Jan.  1658,  proved  21  June 
1659,  naming  lands  in  Tostock, 
Thurston  and  Beighton  :  bur.  at 
Stonham  20  Feb.  1658. 


Ambrose  Goodwin.  Esq.,  Lord  and  patron  of=f=Mary,  sister  of  Tho- 


Mendlesham,  txecutor  to  his  father  1635  ; 
inherited  his  lands  and  manors  in  Suffolk, 
and  his  saltpans  in  South  and  North  Shields, 
co.  Durham  ;  son  and  heir,  14  Car.  and  aged 
40  years  and  upwards.  Sold  the  Manor  of 
Stonham  Parva  to  Sir  William  Harvey.  Fine 
Hillary,  1652. 


mas  Baxter.  Blois. 
Living  1670,  when 
Mary,  her  dau.,  made 
her  will  ;  buried  at 
Stonham  Parva  1 9 
June  1676. 


1 — 1 — 1 - ;  _  . 

Thomas  Goodwin.  1658,  named 
in  his  mother’s  will. 

John  Goodwin,  executor  to  his 
mother  1 658  ;  bapt.  at  Ston¬ 
ham  1638. 

Bartram  Goodwin,  named  1658 
in  his  mother's  will  ;  bapt.  at 
Stonham  1639. 


Dorothy,  wife 
of  .  .  .  God¬ 
dard,  Blois. 
bapt.  at  Ston¬ 
ham  22  Jan. 
1637. 


Theodore 

Goodwin. 

Blois. 


Anne  Goodwin,  eld. 
dau.  Blois.  OfWeth- 
eringsett,  co.  Suffolk, 
spinster.  Made  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  1691  ; 
to  be  buried  in  Little 
Stonham  Chancel  ; 


bapt. 

1629. 


at  Stonham 


Mary  Goodwin,  2d  dau 
Blois,  Bapt.  1639;  of  Men 
dlesham  spr.  Made  Will 
P.C  C.  57  Cottle,  29  Jan 
1670, proved  19  May  1682 
leaving  all  to  Anne,  her  sis 
ter  ;  names  her  mothei 
and  her  sister  Acton;  bur 
at  Stonham. 


- 1 

Dorothy,  youngest 
dau.  ;  made  Will,  9 
July  1 707,  as  Dorothy 
Acton  of  London,  wi¬ 
dow.  See  deed,  Add. 
MS.  19,  114,  fo.  33b. 
Estates  in  Brockford, 
co.  Suffolk. 


Thomas  Goodwin  of  Woodbriuge,  son  of  Mi'. 
Theodore  Goodwin  and  Elizabeth,  his  wife, 
buried  at  Stonham  Parva  15  July  1681. 


1 - 

Jenney  Andrews— Mary  Acton,  dau.  of 
of  London,  Gent.,  Dorothy  abovenamed 
1707.  1707. 


The  Arms  of  Goodwin  of  Stonham  Parva,  together  with  a  brief  pedigree,  are  given  in  the  Visitation  of  Cambridgeshire,  1619. 
Harl.  MS.  1043.  Paly  of  six,  or  and  sable :  on  a  chief  gules  three  martlets  or.  Crest :  a  horse’s  head  couped  or,  bridled  argent, 
out  of  a  ducal  coronet  azure. 

2  G* 


(goofitotn  of  Cornngton. 


ffiRiU  uf  frmrii  (Sooiihiht,  1552. 

In  the  name  of  God,  Amen,  the  xvij  daye  of  Octobre  in  the  yeare  of  oure  lorde  God  a 
thowsande  ccccclij  and  in  the  the  vjth  of  King  Edward  the  vj.  I,  henry  goodwill  of  Kesgrave  in 
the  diocese  of  Norwich  of  good  mynde  &  perfighte  remembraunce,  althowe  sicke  in  bodey,  ordeine 
and  make  this  my  prent  testament  and  last  will  in  manner  aude  forme  hereafter  enswinge  :  ffirst  I 
beqneth  my  sowle  to  God  and  by  and  throwghe  the  meritts  of  his  passion  my  truste  is  the  same 
shalbe  savid— Itm  I  will  that  Jone  my  wifle  and  John  my  sonne  have  &  occupie  jointly  all  my  lands 
&  tenements  both  fre  &  copie  in  Kesgrave  aforesaid,  Martlesham,  Letell  healings,  &  foxehoole  &  my 
ferine  there  from  Michaelmas  next  after  my  decease  for  half  a  year  A  my  stock  of  cattle  &  corn 
except  such  as  shall  be  herafter  otherwise  willed  or  given,  and  with  the  profights  thereof  my  younger 
children  shall  be  set  for  to  learninge  service  or  to  some  other  exercise  of  vertue  as  thei  may  be  kepte 
from  Idleness — And  then  I  will  said  Jone  my  wiffe  shall  have  my  tenement  Churchis  in  litle 

healings,  the  hemp  lande,  the  brickeyarde  &  the  lands  A  pastures  on  the  North  side  of  the  River 

runing  from  said  brickyarde  unto  the  pasture  now  in  the  ferme  of  Thomas  Leeke  called  blaksons, 
that  is  to  say,  that  tenetor  close  w*  the  pastures  at  the  Sowtheste  corner  of  the  same,  or  other  lands 
of  myne  lying  in  the  beacon  hide  and  Moltes  close,  the  copyholds  I  hold  of  Sackefordehall  on  the 
North  part  of  said  tenement  Churches,  and  ij  other  peices  near  there  on  the  East  side  of  the  waie 
leading  from  the  beakon  untc  Colnes  ;  to  have  and  to  hold  onto  saide  wiffe  Jone  for  her  naturall 
life  &  after  her  decease  to  remain  tc  Henry  Goodwin  my  third  sonn  for  ever,  and  if  he  die  before 
his  mother,  then  son  John  to  have  them. 

To  said  son  John  Goodwin  tenement  Noblotts  and  burchis  with  lands  belonging  as  well  as  such 
lands  belonging  to  the  tenement  Churches  A  the  tenement  Havens  as  arenot  before  or  hereafter 
specified  as  given  or  bequeathed,  in  Kesgrave,  little  healings  &  Martlesham,  on  conditions  he  pay  his 
his  mother  an  annuity  of  3U  vj3  viijd  per  annum  at  Miclielmas  and  at  the  ffeast  of  the  Annunciation 

equally.  Wife  has  power  to  enter  if  not  paid.  To  said  wife  a  hundrithe  shepe  as  thei  rune,  ij 

melche  kene,  oh  hors,  ij  featherbedds  furnished  wl  ij  joyned  bedstedles,  ij  coverletts,  ij  paier  of 
blanketts,  iij  paier  of  shetes,  ij  bolsters  and  ij  pillowes,  one  brasse  pot,  oh  ketell,  oh  possenet, 
oh  stele  pan,  halfe  a  garnislie  of  pewter  and  half  a  dozen  silver  sponis. 

Itm  I  give  Henry  my  sonne  my  lease  of  the  parsonage,  and  to  Thomas  my  sonne  xls  and 
to  Robert  my  sonne  other  xls.  To  my  seconde  sonne  George  Goodwin  the  tenement  haves  in 
Kesgrave  and  Pleiford,  as  John  Grimser  nowe  occupies  the  same  ;  that  is,  the  house,  garden,  orchard, 
pictell  &  close  on  North  of  same  abutting  on  the  high  way  from  Woodbrigge  to  Ippeswiche, 
childeronsfilde,  the  fen  with  the  pounde  &  the  pictell  called  perotts  pictells  as  long  as  the  exchange 


GOODWIN  OF  TORRINGTON. 


237 


between  Master  Stisted  and  me  continueth,  or  else  I  will  when  the  exchange  shalbe  broken  that  my 
said  sonne  George  have  two  pictells  called  pernells  pictells  leying  at  the  Weste  ende  of  the  parsonage 
close  abuttinge  on  Ippeswiche  way  North.  Also  saide  sonne  George  to  have  the  tenement  Ives 
otherwise  called  bodisleis  w*  land  pastures  and  marsh  in  foxhoole,  to  holde  to  him  for  ever,  paying 
his  brother  Henry  Goodwyn  xxs  per  annum.  If  son  George  die  without  lawful  issue  then  to  son  John 
Goodwin.  As  for  two  younger  sons  Thomas  and  Robert,  I  have  not  appointed  them  any  lands  for 
that  my  brother  Thomas  hath  promised  me  he  will  give  them  jointly  his  lands  in  Ottlie  and  Clopton 
that  were  my  fathers.  To  every  of  my  daughters  20s  each  at  marriage  or  20  years.  To  son  John 
all  such  cattle  &  moveables  as  I  have  given  to  wife  for  her  life.  All  the  brewing  vessels,  hangings 
of  the  chambers  Ac.  to  be  equally  parted  into  two  parts  by  my  brother  Thomas  and  my  bi-other  in 
law  John  Dameron  or  Robert  his  son,  and  one  part  to  be  given  to  wife  &  said  son  John  in  equal 
shares  and  the  other  part  equally  to  my  other  childen.  To  my  said  brotheren  for  a  poor  remem- 
braunce  for  their  paines  takeing  in  pricinge  of  corne  cattell  Ac.  I  give  each  of  them  vjs  viijdJ  The 
residue  of  my  estate  wholly  at  the  discretion  of  my  wife  A  son  John  Goodwin  whom  I  make  myne 
executors  these  being  witnes  Thomas  Goodwin  my  saide  brother,  Robert  Dameron,  Ssteve  Goodwin 
with  other. 

Proved  at  Norwich  on  24  January  1552  and  administration  committed  to  executors  in  the 
person  of  William  Stevinson  their  procurator.  Cur.  Ep  Norw.  “Lincoln,”  fo.  272. 


(^ootAotn  of  Corrington. 

Arms  and  Crest  as  Gooding  of  Suffolk  : — On  the  fess  a  ring  for  difference,  or.  The  pedigree  entered  in  the 
Visitations  of  Devonshire,  Harl.  MS.  1080,  fo.  '272b,  is  printed  in  italics. 


Goodwin  of 


I 


j 


William  Cobbe  of  Peterbridge  in=f  Margaret,  da  of 


Norfolk.  Harl.  MS.  1552, f 0.166. 
See  Pedigrees  of  Cobbe  in  the 
Norfolk  Visitation,  Harl.  Soc. 


Thomas  Wales 
Lynn  Bishop. 
Harl.  MS.  1552. 


of 


John  Goodwin  of  Kesgravein  co. 
Arch.  Suff.  24  July  1535  ;  lands 
ings  to  Henry  Goodwin,  his  son  ; 
tiugstone  and  Strutton,  Otley 
names  Thomas  Mellyes,  &c.,  &c. 


Suffolk.  Will,=p 
in  Little  Beal- 
;  lands  in  Tat- 
and  Clopton  ; 


Margaret=j=Riehard 


Cobbe. 


Lee 
Leigh  of 
Norwich 
Harl.  MS. 
1552. 


Henrie  Goodwin  of  Kesgrave  in=^J oan,  named  Thomas  Good- 
Suff.  Harl.  MS,  1080.  Will,  1552  in  her  win, witness  1535 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  18  Oct.  1552,  husband’s  to  Johulnglose’s 
proved  24  Jan.  following;  lauds  will.  Query  if  will;  had  his 
in  Kesgrave,  Martlesham,  Lit-  sister  to  Dam-  father’s  lands  in 
tie  Healings,  Foxhall,  &c.  ;  eron  of  West-  Ottley  and  Clop- 
devisee  of  John  Inglose  of  erfield.  ton.  1552. 

Kesgrave,  1635. 


Edmund  Goodwin, 
to  whom  his  bro¬ 
ther  devised  lands 
in  Foxhall,  1535. 


.  .  .  ux.  Thomas 
Mellys,  devisee 
of  John  Inglose 
and  John  Good¬ 
win  1635  ;  had 
daughters  Mar¬ 
garet  and  Alice 
Mellys. 


.  .  .  ux.  John  Dam¬ 
eron,  Henry  Good¬ 
win’s  brother-in- 
law  ;  had  son  Robert 
Dameron  of  Sud- 
borne,  who  made 
Will,  P.  C.  C.  22  Da- 
per  7  Aug.  1570. 


Dorothy,  d.  of=^John  Goodwin  of  Kesgrave 
Jlich:  Leigh e  of  |  in  Suff.,  to whomhis  father 
Korwich.  Harl.  |  left  most  of  his  lands  ;  de- 
M \  1080  and  \  visee  of  John  Ingljsel535, 
1552.  I  and  of  Robert  Dameron 

|  1570. 


George  Good¬ 
win,  second 
son,  1552;  de¬ 
visee  of  John 
Inglose,  1535. 


- - - | - | - p-p-j 

Henry  Goodwin,  Thomas  Good-  Robert  Good-  Alice,  Anne 
3d  son,  1552;  win,  1552;  de-  win,  1552;  de-  and  Christian, 
devisee  of  Rob-  viseeofRobert  viseeofRobert  devisees  of 
ert  Dameron,  his  Dameron,  his  Dameron,  his  John  Inglose, 
cousin,  1570.  cousin,  1570.  cousin,  1570.  1535. 


HcnrieGondwinof  Torinytonin  Devon, =j=Susan,  d.  of  Tho:  Cutcliff  of  Ilfordcomb, 
7  son,  liveing  1620,  when  the  Visita-  co.  Devon.,  who  entered  pedigree  in  the 
tion  of  Devonshire  was  made.  |  County  Visitation  of  1620. 


Charles  Gooduiin,  eldest  sonne,  at.  John,  2.  Georye,  3. 
10,  a<>  1620. 


- n - — ri - 

John,  1,  Christofer,  S. 

Georg,  2.  Henrie,  4- 

- ! - | 

1,  Margarett.  2,  Anne. 


Edmund,  5. 
IFillm,  6. 


#ootitotn  of  gojforti* 


Will  of  Jltargarot  ffiatt&kr  al’s  (illicit,  1556* 

The  eleuenth  daye  of  January  m'ccccclvi.  Margaret  Candelcr  als  Gyllet.  I  gyve  to  the  poore 
mens  boxe  at  Yoxforde  foure  pence.  To  Thomas  my  sone  my  howse  that  I  dwell  in  called  fords 
and  all  the  londs  therto  belonging,  also  I  will  that  all  the  steyned  clothes  that  I  haue  shall  go 

styll  with  the  howse  and  a  copborde  and  all  the  stolles  and  chayres,  a  cowle  to  put  in  henes  and 

a  counter  table,  all  these  thigs  to  remayne  styll  with  the  howse.  I  gyve  to  Owen  my  sone 
a  gelding  of  thre  yeres  olde  and  to  Thomas  my  sonne  a  table  cloth.  To  Erne  my  dowghter  two 
neate.  To  Margaret  my  dowghter  a  cowe  and  a  worsted  kyrtle.  To  Anne  Candlare  my  dowghter 
a  cowe  and  a  featherbedde,  a  bolster  and  a  gowne  cloth.  I  gyve  to  Anne  Poley,  my  dowghter  a 
payre  of  shets,  a  cowe,  a  featherbedde  and  a  bolster  and  my  best  frock e.  I  gyve  to  Margaret 
Poley,  to  Ane  Poley,  to  Mary  Poley  and  to  Alee  Polley  the  dowghter  of  Anne  Poley  to  euery  of 

them  a  payre  of  shets.  To  Harry  Poley  a  sliepe  and  to  Margaret  Poley  a  shepe.  Item  to  .John 

Waren  a  shete.  The  residue  of  my  goods  shalbe  equally  devided  amonge  my  children.  I  ordeyne 
and  make  my  executor  Robert  Poley  the  elder  gentylman  and  Thomas  Candeler  my  sonne.  In 
witnes  of  this  my  last  will  making,  Willm  Reve,  Curat  of  Yoxforde,  Willm  Bloke,  John  Awlcocke,  Arc. 
Probatum  apud  Yoxforde  xxix  die  Marcij  1557  executoribjj.  Arch.  Suff.  Book,  18,  fo  3. 


SStill  of  Holier!  flol^,  155S* 

Roberte  Polye  of  Yoxforde  in  the  countie  of  Sufff  gent,  ffirst  I  bequethe  my  sowle  to 

almightie  god  my  savior  Jesus  Christe,  by  whose  deathe  I  assure  my  selfe  that  I  am  redemed 

and  iustified.  I  will  my  bodye  to  be  cohiitted  to  the  earthe  betwene  the  fonte  and  the 
churche  dore  within  the  churche.  The  ferme  of  my  tehte  called  Polyes  in  Sybeton  I  gyve  vuto 

Elizabeth  my  wief  duringe  her  naturall  lief  and  then  she  to  gyve  it  where  she  shall  please.  Also 


GOODWIN  OF  YOXFORD. 


235 


I  gyve  to  my  wief  this  tent  with  all  the  londs  belongynge  wherein  I  nowe  do  dwell  vppon 
condition  that  she  shall  give  to  Thomas  Candeler  xls  by  yere  and  paye  Johan  Cooe  iijs  iiijd  for  her 
dowrye.  Vnto  my  wief  my  tehte  in  the  streete  called  Boveriehes  and  after  her  decease  the  profights 
for  one  hole  yere  shall  be  parted  amongs  the  children  of  Edward  Poley.  Vnto  everie  chayelde  that 
Mr  Owen  Hopton  my  maister  hathe  vs.  Vnto  Ane  Candler  vis  viijd  and  Eme  Candler  vi3  viijd. 
Vnto  Mr  Charles  Hopton  xs  and  xs  vnto  Mr  Thomas  Hopton  and  x8  vnto  Maystres  Dorathie 
Hopton.  Vnto  Thomas  Candler  obligacons  of  xM  and  xx11.  To  Margaret  Candler  vj8  viijd.  Vnto 
Margaret  Polye  my  servaunt  xxB.  If  Thomas  Candler  shall  departe  this  worlde  withowte  anye 
issue  of  his  bodye,  then  this  tent  to  remayne  to  Mr  Owyn  Hopton  my  maister  from  whome  it  came 
and  he  to  yelde  and  paye  for  it  xxh  to  Robert  Polye  of  Wrenthm,  his  wief  and  her  children  vju  and 
to  Ane  Polye  and  her  children  xiju  and  vnto  Eme  Candler  xl3  if  she  shalbe  then  lyvinge.  I  gyve 
to  the  preiste  for  brekinge  of  the  grownde  in  the  churche  fyve  shillings.  Vnto  Jeffrie  Fiske  his 
wief  and  children  v3.  I  gyve  vnto  my  wief  a  younge  colte  amblynge  :  vnto  Thomas  Candeler  my 
lease  whiche  I  haue  of  Richarde  Knyghtf  of  Brampfelde.  Vnto  Alice  Polye  a  wighte  calfe. 
Vnto  Marye  Polye  a  calfe.  Vnto  Elizabeth  my  wief  a  payer  of  quernes  and  a  mal tinge  fatte  for 
terme  of  her  lief,  and  after  her  decease  they  shall  remayne  vnto  Thomas  Candler  with  the  howse. 
I  make  myne  executors  Elizabeth  Polye  my  wief  and  Thomas  Candler.  And  my  maister  Mr  Owen 
Hopton  I  hartelye  require  to  be  supervisor  of  this  my  last  will  whereunto  I  haue  sette  my  hand. 
Dated  the  xvtb  dyae  of  October  1558.  Probatum  decimo  die  Novembris  1558  executoribus. 

Arch.  Suff. 

There  liued  antiently  in  Yoxford  of  the  fj'amihj  of  Poley  :  one  of  them  married  Agnes  eldest 
daughter  of  Robert  Gillot  al’s  Candler  and  had  by  her  a  sonne  named  Henry  dead  long  since  without 
■issue  and  diners  daughters.  Another  of  them  dying  without  issue  gaue  to  Thomas  Gillet  al’s  Candler 
of  Yoxford  such  lands  as  he  had  in  Yoxford  :  who  sold  them,  and  Henry  Rush  is  now  owner  of  them  : 
the  house  stands  on  ye  north  side  of  the  Riuer  in  ye  roade  towards  Darsliam,  right  ouer  against  the 
going  into  Cochfeild  Hall ,  this  yeare  1655.  Add.  MS.,  15,  520,  p.  267. 


Will  of  Hi'nrg  itoks,  1586, 

The  thirtene  daie  of  September  1586,  I  Henry  Poolie  of  Yoxford  in  the  countie  of  Sufff 

singleman  doe  make  this  my  present  testament.  I  comend  my  sowle  into  the  handes  of  god,  and 

this  my  bodie  I  will  to  the  earthe.  I  geve  vnto  the  fyve  children  of  John  Goodwyn  and  my  sister 
Margaret  his  wyefe  the  some  of  six  powndes,  thirtene  shillings  fower  pence  ;  they  to  receyve  the? 

porcons  with  the  proffett  at  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  Vnto  the  thre  children  of  Raphe 

Snelling  of  Yoxford  vi8  viijd  a  piece  ;  they  to  receyve  the?  porcons  as  the  children  of  John  Goodwyn 
shall  doe.  I  geve  vnto  Alice  Carter  my  sister  twentie  shillinges  and  vnto  Thomazine  Deye  twentie 
shillinges.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  to  be  evenlie  devyded  between  my  two  sisters  Margaret  Goodwyn 
aad  Marie  Snelling.  I  make  my  executors  Raphe  Snelling  and  Margaret  Goodwyn,  trusting  in  god 
they  will  se  this  my  testaments  fullie  pformed  according  to  my  mynd.  Probatum  xxi  die  Octobris 
1586,  et  comissa  fuit  admistracio  executorib^.  Arch.  Suff.  Book,  31,  fo.  137. 


240 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ill  of  JItargaret  ®ooi)fout,  1612, 


The  xxiij  of  Aprill  in  the  tenth  yeare  of  the  raigne  of  our  Soveraigne  Lord  James,  of 

England,  &c.,  Kyng,  I  Margaret  Goodwyn,  wyddow,  though  sick  in  body  yet,  thancks  be  to  God, 
of  pfect  memory,  doe  ordayne  and  make  this  my  last  will  in  manner  following.  I  bequeathe  my 
soule  into  the  hands  of  God  and  my  body  to  decent  buryall.  To  Robert  Goodwyn  my  sonne  xx8. 
To  Henry  Goodwyn  my  sonne  xxiij8  and  iiijd.  To  Margaret  Thcrne  wyddow,  my  daughter,  my 
stuff  gowne.  To  Elizabeth  Neave  my  daughter  my  best  cloatli  gowne.  To  Alice  Goodwyn  my 

daughter  my  best  petticoat,  Ac.  To  the  fyve  children  of  my  daughter  Thorne  iij8  iiijd  a  peece. 

The  rest  of  my  goods  to  my  executors  Margaret  Thorne  my  daughter  and  Alice  Goodwyn  my 

daught^.  Probatum  xxmo  die  Maij  1612  comissa  administraco  bonorum  executoribus. 

Arch.  Suff,  Book  of  Wills,  1612,  fo.  15. 


Cantiler,  jpoleg,  <§»oottann. 

From  the  Candler  Pedigrees ,  Tanner  MSS.,  Lib.  Bodleian ,  257  and  180,  collated  with  Harl.  MS.  6071. 


Robert  Giltett  alias  Candler  of=^ Margaret  Mansfield,  daughter  of  Mansfield  of  Walderswicke  <£•  of  Margaret, 


Yoxjord.  Harl.  MS.  6071,  pp. 
367,  368.  Tanner  MS.  257, 
pp.  364,  365,  and  180,  p.  21. 


one  of  the  two  daughters  «fc  coheirs  ot  .  .  .  Keene  of  Cretingham  :  the  other 
daughter  of  Keene  was  married  to  Folkard  of  Bedfield.  Harl.  MS,  6071,  &c. 
Margaret  Candler  al’s  Gillet  made  will,  Arch.  Suff.  11  Jan.  1556. 


William  Gillett  al’s  t  handler. 
Owen  Gillet  al’s  Candler. 


Edward  Poley  of  Yox-=j=Agnes.  daughter  of  Gil¬ 
ford,  dead,  apparently,  |  Ictt  al’s  Candler  of  Tox¬ 
in  1558.  ford  :  died  1586. 


Thomas  Gillett  al’s 
Candler  of  Yoxord. 


•TT1 

Anne, 

Margaret, 

Erne. 


Margaret  Poley ,  married  to 
John  Gooding.  Margaret 
Goodwin  made  will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  23  April  1612. 


Agnes  Po¬ 
ley,  mar¬ 
ried  to 
.  .  .  Deye, 
s.p. 


Mary,  married  to  Ralph  knel¬ 
ling  ot  Yoxford.  He  had  lands 
there  in  the  time  of  K.  James. 
Add.  MS.  15,520. 


henry  Poley,  died  1586.  Will,  Alice  Poley, 

Arch.  Suff.  13  Sept.  1586.  married  to 

proved  21  Oct.  same  year;  be-  John  Cartel •, 

quests  to  Margaret  Goodwin,  Auy.26  15S6 

KalphSnelling  &  Alice  Carter.  =f= 


1  I 

Robert 

Good¬ 

win, 

1612. 

Henry 

Good¬ 

win, 

1612. 


Joane  Good¬ 
win,  married 
to  William 
Stocke  1599  : 
s.p.  Harl.  MS. 
6071. 


Margaret  Goodwin, 
married  to  William 
Thorne  :  all  her  issue 
dead  except  one  sane 
and  a  daught.  Mar¬ 
ried  at  Yoxford  3 
Feb.  1593.  She  was 
bur.  there  1635. 


- r-i 

Elizabeth 
Goodwin  : 
was  Eliza¬ 
beth  Neave 
1612. 

Alice  Good¬ 
win,  living 
1612. 


Ralph  Snel-=pA  nne 


T 


ling ,  he  mar¬ 
ried  .  .  .  . 
Jtrare :  and 
was  living 
1655.  Add. 
MS.  15,520. 


Renee. 
Harl. MS. 
6071. 
Beare. 
Tanner 
MSS.  257 
and  180. 


mar¬ 
ried  to 
John 
Head. 


mar¬ 
ried  to 

Harle- 

wyn. 


William,  who  married  .  .  . 
daughter  of  Nicholas  Gur¬ 
neys  of  Miclfield,  Esq. 


A  daughter  married 
to  John  J'almer  oj 
Yoxjord. 


Robert.  Ralph. 


Alice,  married  to 
.  .  .  Peacock :  qu. 
ij  not  rather  Mary. 


Eliza¬ 
beth, 
married 
to  Mich¬ 
ael  Can- 


Margaret 
man-ied 
to  Ralph 
Band  ; 
ob.  cum 
sua  prole. 


John  <C-  Francis. 


Cajdoc  of  I.  is  gate. 


Confirmation  of  Jlrnts  to  Joint  ®aulor,  1572. 

To  all  and  singular  as  well  nobles  and  gentills  as  others  to  whom  these  presentes  shall  come 
Robert  Cooke  Esquier  alias  Clarencieulx  principall  lierehault  and  Kinge  of  armes  of  the  Sowth  Este 
and  West  partes  of  this  Realme  of  Englande  from  the  River  of  Treute  southwards  sendith  greeting. 
Wheras  aunciently  from  the  beginninge  the  valiaunt  and  vertuous  actes  of  worthie  persons  have  been 
comended  to  the  worlde  with  sondry  monumentes  and  remembrances  of  their  good  desertes,  Emongst 
the  which  the  chefest  and  most  vsuall  hath  ben  the  bearinge  of  signes  in  shildes  called  Armes 
which  are  euident  demonstracions  of  prowes  and  valoir  diversly  distributed  accordinge  to  the  qualities 
and  desertes  of  the  persons  order  as  it  was  most  prudently  deuised  in  the  beginninge  to  st-irre  and 
kindell  the  hartes  of  men  to  the  imitacion  of  vertuc  and  noblenes.  Euen  so  hath  the  same  ben 
and  yet  is  continually  obserued  to  the  ende  that  such  as  liaue  don  comendable  sendee  to  their 
Prynce  or  Contry  either  in  warre  or  peace  maye  bothc  receaue  due  honor  in  their  lines  &  also 
deriue  the  same  successively  to  their  posteritie  after  them.  And  beinge  required  of  John  le  Talor 
of  London  Esquier  to  make  searche  in  the  regesters  and  recordes  of  my  Office  for  the  auncient 
Armes  belonginge  to  that  name  and  familie  whereof  he  is  descended,  wheruppon  I  have  at  his 
request  made  searche  accordingly  so  that  findingc  the  true  and  perfect  descent  I  coulde  not  without 
his  great  preiudice  assigne  vnto  him  any  other  than  those  whiche  are  to  him  descended  from  his 
anneestors.  That  is  to  saye  quarterly,  in  the  firstc  for  Talor  sables  a  lion  passant  siluer,  in  the 
seconde  for  Beniclere  golde  a  lion  rampant  regardant  gules  a  coller  siluer,  in  the  thirde  for  Sely  siluer 
a  cheueron  gules  betwen  thre  egles  displaied  sables,  the  laste  as  the  firste.  And  for  that  I  finde 
no  Creaste  vnto  the  same,  as  commonly  to  all  auncient  Armes  there  belongeth  none,  I  haue  giueu 
vnto  him  by  waye  of  encrease  for  his  Creaste  or  Coguoisance  vppon  his  healme  on  a  wreath  siluer  and 
sables  an  Ownce  standinge  in  proper  cooler  manteled  gules  dowbled  siluer  as  more  plainly  apperith 
depicted  in  this  margent.  The  whiche  Armes  and  Creaste  and  euery  parte  and  parcell  thereof  I  the 
saide  Clarencieulx  Kinge  of  Armes  by  power  and  aucthoritie  to  my  Office  annexed  and  grawnted  by 
Letters  patentes  vnder  the  great  seale  of  Englande  to  ratifie  confirme  and  allowe  to  the  saide  John 
le  Talor  Esquier  and  to  his  posteritie  with  their  due  differences  and  they  the  same  to  vse  beare  and 
shewe  in  Shilde  cote  armour  or  othervvaies  at  his  and  their  liberty  and  pleasure  without  impediment 
let  or  interuption  of  any  person  or  persons.  In  witnes  whereof  I  the  saide  Clarenciewlx  Kinge  of 
Armes  have  sett  hereunto  my  handc  and  seale  of  Office  the  xxth  day  of  Juli  in  a°  1572  and  in  the 
fourteenth  yere  of  the  reigne  of  owre  souereigne  Lady  Elizabeth  by  the  grace  of  God  Queno  of 
Englande  franco  and  Irelande  defendor  of  the  faith,  Ac. 

Rob°t  Cooke  alias  Clarencieulx,  Roy  Darmes. 

2  H 


242 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Smitl)  of  HUImrn,  ffirrtiftrate  of  ^tms. 

I  Henry  Farnham  Burke  Esquire,  Somerset  Herald  of  Arms  and  Genealogist  of  the  Most 
Illustrious  Order  of  Saint  Patrick,  do  hereby  certify  and  declare  that  the  Armorial  Bearings  above 
depicted,  namely,  Arms — Quarterly  of  six,  1st  and  6th  azure  a  saltire  parted  and  fretty  between  four 
martlets  argent  (for  Smith  of  Kilburn),  2nd  gules  on  a  chevron  or  between  three  bezants  as  many 
crosses  patee  fi  tehee  sable,  in  the  centre  chief  point  (for  cadency)  a  martlett  or  (for  Smith  of 
Withcote),  3rd  sable  a  lion  passant  argent  (for  le  Talor),  4th  or  a  lion  rampant  guardant  gules 
•collared  argent  (for  Beniclere),  5th  argent  a  chevron  gules  between  three  eagles  displayed  sable  (for 
Sely).  Crests — 1st  (Smith  of  Kilburn)  in  front  of  a  mount  a  serpent  nowed  thereon  an  owl  all 
proper,  2nd  (Smith  of  Withcote)  a  cubit  arm  erect  vested  per  pale  or  and  azure  cuffed  argent,  the 
hand  proper  holding  a  griffin’s  head  erased  of  the  second  beaked  gold,  charged  on  the  n.eck  (for 
cadency)  with  a  martlet  of  the  last,  Motto,  Coenobio  Salvus — do  of  right  belong  and  appertain  unto 
the  descendants  of  Samuel  Montgomery  Smith,  late  of  Paradise  House,  Kilburn,  deceased,  and  are 
duly  registered  to  them  in  the  Records  of  the  Herald’s  College,  London,  as  witness  my  hand  this 
twentieth  day  of  February  1891.  H.  Farnham  Burke,  Somerset. 


Willi  of  ®£nr ge  (Mg,  1489. 

The  xviij  day  of  the  moneth  of  June  the  yere  of  owre  Lord  god  m’cccclxxxix  I  George  Cely 
citezin  and  ffelmonger  of  London  and  marchunt  of  the  Staple  of  Calice  ordeine  and  dispose  this  my 
put  testament  and  last  will  in  maner  folowing.  First  and  principally  I  reeommende  my  soule  to 
Almighty  god  my  creator  and  savior  and  to  oure  blissid  lady  Sancte  Marye  his  glorious  moder  and 
to  alle  the  hooly  companie  of  hevin.  Itm  to  my  iiij  childern  and  to  the  vtk  in  the  moder  bely  Lh 
to  eche  of  theim.  And  the  residue  of  my  goodes  I  give  freely  vnto  Margerie  my  wife.  And  of 
this  testament  I  make  of  verry  trust  Margery  my  wife,  and  she  to  dispose  for  me  as  she  shall 
please  god,  I  make  and  ordeyne  hir  my  soole  executrix  for  the  substaunce  I  haue  comyn  by  liir.  In 
witnesse  whereof  I  haue  put  my  seale.  And  at  this  day  this  is  my  will  and  testament  I  take 
god  to  reporte. 

This  is  the  last  will  of  me  George  Cely-  concerning  my  londes  and  tenements.  My  wife 

Margerie  shall  enioye  alle  suche  landes  as  be  assigned  to  hir  for  her  joincture.  My  sonne  Richard 

shall  haue  my  lands  in  lytell  Thorrok  in  Essex.  My  sonne  Averey  shal  haue  my  landes  late 
purchased  of  .  .  .  Hungerford  in  Essex.  My  sonne  George  my  hows  in  Merklane  with  half  the 
gardyne.  My  sonne  John  the  other  half  of  the  gardyue  with  the  tenements  in  Mynchinlane.  The 
child  in  my  wife’s  bodie  shalhaue  my  landes  and  tenements  in  Wenyngton  and  Alvetheley  in  Essex. 
My  wife  shalhaue  the  profittes  duringe  the  none  age  of  my  childerne.  Also  I  will  that  my  brother 
Richard  haue  the  Jeull  whiche  I  had  of  King  Richard  and  the  thirde  parte  of  the  shippe  called 

Margaret  Cely  for  euer.  Probatum  quinto  die  mens  Marcij  anno  dhi  M°cccci,xxxxvit0.  Et  comissa 

administracio  bonorum  dicti  defunct  p  Margeriam  relic  non  administratorum  Johanni  Cutte  generoso 
et  Alvered  Rawson  mercatori  Stapule  villo  Calis  ciuitate  London.  P.C.C.  8  Horne. 


TAYLOR  OF  LIDGATK. 


243. 


®tU  of  ®I)ontas  ®aulort  1542. 


The  xiijM  daye  of  Maye  in  the  yere  of  •  or  lorde  god  1512  and  in  the  yore  of  the  reign  of 
Henry  the  viijth  the  xxxiiij*'  I  Thomas  Tayler  of  Lydgate  in  the  countie  of  Suff.  ordeyn  and  make  my 
present  will.  First  and  above  althings  I  bequetli  my  soule  vnto  almightye  god  and  to  his  blysscd 
mother  our  lady  saynte  Mary  and  to  all  the  whole  company  of  hevyn,  and  my  body  to  be  buryed 
in  the  pyshe  churche  of  Lydgate  in  the  oh  ende  of  the  space  before  the  holy  rode  there.  To  the 
high  aulter  of  the  seyd  churche  for  my  tithes  necligently  and  oblyvyously  forgotten  iijs  iiijd.  I 
will  that  myn  executors  do  bye  oon  cope  price  viu  xiijs  iiij'1  of  lyke  colour  and  sute  as  the  cope 
and  vesture  whiclie  I  gave  to  the  seyd  churche  to  the  honor  of  our  sayvior  Jim.  I  giue  vnto  Izake 

Tayler  the  sone  of  John  Tayler  deceased  viu  xiijs  iiij'1  when  he  shall  aceomplishe  the  age  of  twenty 

yeres.  I  will  that  Alice  my  wyfe  and  Edmond  my  sone  haue  the  lialfe  pte  of  my  vtensiles  and 
ymplements  of  howseholde  and  thother  half  pte  I  will  shalbe  eqally  aporcioned  in  amyable  man! 
amongs  my  childern  Roberte  George  and  Margaret.  I  giue  vnto  Robert  and  George  Tayler  my 
sonnes  my  interest  for  terme  of  yeres  yet  to  come  in  the  Man!  and  Lordship  of  Lydgate  whiche  I 

haue  of  the  lease  of  my  late  Lorde  of  burgeveny.  I  giue  vnto  the  said  George  my  sone  two 

hundred  shepe  and  viij  mylche  bests  going  at  Ovsden  and  to  euery  one  of  his  sonnes  and  doughters 
tenne  sheepe,  also  I  giue  vnto  every  one  of  the  sonnes  and  doughters  of  my  late  sone  John  Tayler 
tenne  shepe,  also  I  do  giue  vnto  euj  y  one  of  the  sonnes  and  doughters  of  my  dough  ter  Margaret 
ten  shepe.  Also  I  giue  vnto  Thomas  Tayler  theldyst  sonne  of  my  late  sonne  John  Tayler,  Edmond 
Tayler  and  John  Tayler  also  sonnes  of  the  seyde  John  to  euery  of  theym  fyve  marks  when  they 
shall  aceomplishe  the  age  of  twenty  and  one  yeres.  Also  vnto  Izake  Tayler  when  he  shall  accom- 
plishe  thage  of  xxi  yeres  foure  pounds  sterling.  Also  vnto  Joane,  Margaret  and  Mary  Tayler, 
doughters  of  the  seyd  John  to  ei?y  of  them  xls  when  they  shall  aceomplishe  thage  of  twenty  yeres. 
I  giue  vnto  Sr  William  Bolward  my  blacke  cloke.  Tenement  within  the  townc  of  Wykehm  in  a 

certeyn  hamlet  called  Boydon  vnto  thusc  of  Robert  Tayler  my  sone  and  of  his  lieyres  for  euer. 

Tent  called  Sybells  in  Lydgate,  with  my  other  londes  and  tents  in  Lydgate,  Benhm,  Dalham, 
Ovsden,  Assheley,  Cartelynge  and  Colyng  within  the  counties  of  Suff.  and  Cambrydge  to  thuse  of 
sayd  Alice  and  Edmond  during  the  lyfe  naturall  of  sayd  Alice  in  full  satysfaction  of  her  dowry. 
And  after  the  deceas  of  the  sayd  Alyce  sayd  londs  to  thuse  of  the  seyd  George  and  his  heires 
for  ever.  I  will  that  ymmedyatlv  after  the  deceasse  of  Alice  my  wyfe  George  my  sonne  shall 
fynde  Edmond  Tayler,  also  my  sone,  duringe  his  lyfe  naturall,  ineate,  drynke,  hosen,  shoone, 

bedding,  lynen  and  wolen  and  all  other  necessary  things  to  liyrn  belonging  and  also  paye  yerely 

vnto  the  sayd  Edmonde  vis  viijd.  I  ordeyn  Alice  my  wyfe  Robert  and  George  Tayler  my  sonnes 
myn  executours  and  Sr  Robert  Whytyng  clerke  supervisor.  Probation  xiiij0  die  Octobris  1542. 

P.C.C.  10  Spert. 


-244 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


([(Kill  of  3olm  Sagltrr,  1600. 

The  thirteenth  day  of  November  1600,  in  the  two  and  fouretithe  yere  of  our  sovereigne 
Ladie  Elizabeth  by  the  grace  of  god  Queene  of  Englande,  Arc.  I  John  Tailor  citizen  and  haberdasher 
■of  London  doe  make  this  my  present  will.  I  commende  my  soule  into  the  handes  of  god  my 
maker  saviour  and  redemer.  1  will  my  bodie  to  be  brought  to  the  earth  by  Clarenciaulx  and 
the  herrauldes,  and  they  to  haue  for  their  duties  paines,  paynctinges  of  my  armes  paines,  gownes 
and  laboures,  thirteen  poundes  six  shillinges  and  eight  pence,  and  that  don,  then  I  will  my  debtes 
to  be  payed  if  I  happen  to  owe  anie.  Whereas  Elizabethe  my  onlie  daughter  is  marryed  vnto 
Thomas  ffreake  esq^  by  whom  she  hathe  manie  children  my  desier  is  that  she  shall  have  absolute 
power  without  controulement  of  her  husband  to  dispose  of  suclie  parte  of  my  substaunce  as  hereafter 
is  mentioned  at  her  owne  free  will  and  pleasure.  My  mynde  is  that  if  the  saide  Thomas  ffreake 
shall  become  bounde  to  the  master  and  foure  wardens  of  the  frateruitie  of  Habberdashers  to  deliver 
the  sornme  of  two  thowzande  poundes  vnto  the  handes  of  sufficiente  persons  and  to  permit  the 
saide  Elizabeth  to  have  the  ordering  thereof  and  of  the  increass  which  shall  come  and  also  by  her 
last  will  to  devise  the  same  to  suche  of  her  children  kinsfolkes  or  other  persons  as  to  her  self 
shall  seem  meete,  without  anie  lett,  trouble  or  intervption  of  the  said  Thomas  ffreake  :  then  I 
doe  give  and  bequeathe  to  the  vse  and  behoof  of  the  saide  Elizabethe  my  daughter  the  some  of 
two  thowsaude  poundes  for  the  performaunce  of  my  devise  before  mentioned.  For  lacke  of  suche 
appoynetment  thereof  to  be  made,  saide  guifte  shall  be  voyde,  and  then  I  give  the  saide  two 
thowzand  poundes  vnto  ffrauncis  Smithe  the  eldest  sonne  of  my  said  daughter  Elizabethe  by  ffrauncis 
■Smithe  her  late  husbande.  I  doe  give  towardes  the  advauncement  of  soe  manie  of  the  eight 
children  of  my  saide  daughter,  videlicet,  ffraunces  Smithe,  John  ffreake,  Robert  ffreake,  Raphe  ffreake, 
Thomas  ffreake,  Edmund  ffreake,  Elizabethe  and  Alice  ffreake,  as  before  their  ages  of  twentie  and 
fower  yeres  shall  not  marrye  withoute  suche  consent  therevnto  as  is  after  lymitted,  the  some  of 
eight  thowzande  markes  to  be  distributed  amongest  them  at  their  seaverall  ages  of  twentie  and 
fower  yeres.  I  doe  give  vnto  the  saide  companie  of  Habberdashers  to  make  them  a  Dynuer  at 
their  Hall  on  the  daie  of  my  funerall  the  some  of  twentie  poundes,  and  also  the  somme  of  twentie 
poundes  more  to  be  bestowed  in  a  standing  cup  withe  my  Armes  vppon  it.  And  further  I  doe 
giue  vnto  the  master  wardens  and  commynaltie  of  the  saide  company  two  hundred  poundes  to  be 
lent  to  foure  yonge  men  by  liftie  poundes  a  peice  for  the  space  of  fower  yeres,  and  that  after 
the  same  foure  yeares  be  ended  to  be  lent  to  other  foure  younge  men,  to  contynewe  after  that 
sorte  for  ever.  Provided  that  everie  one  of  the  younge  men  shall  give  every  Monday  soe  longe 
as  he  shall  have  the  fiftie  pounds,  at  the  ehurche  dore  of  Saint  Stephens  in  Colmanstreate,  six 
pence  in  bread  to  such  poore  householders  as  shall  be  thoughte  meet.  And  if  the  companie  of 
Habberdashers  shall  neglect  the  state  of  the  suerties  for  repaymt  then  I  will  the  same  two  hundred 
poundes  vnto  my  two  nephewes  John  Hildersham  and  Richarde  Hildersham.  Moneys  to  the 
churchwardens  of  Sainte  Stephens  in  Colmanstreat  to  lay  out  yerelie  iu  the  somer  time  in  buyenge 
scacoales  billets  or  faggots  and  iu  the  w'ynter  tyme  to  suffer  the  poore  to  have  the  same  after  the 
prices  they  cost  and  so  to  contynue.  My  nephewe  John  Mayle.  My  waterbearer  and  his  wife 
and  the  cobler’s  wife  that  gave  me  my  spanyell  shall  have  each  of  them  a  gown.  Seaventie  gownes 
of  ordiuarie  clothe  to  be  given  vnto  seaventie  of  the  poorest  inhabiters  of  Sainte  Stephens  and  other 
the  parishes  within  the  same  warde.  To  the  poore  children  harboured  in  Christs  Ilospitall  the 
somme  of  one  hundred  poundes.  To  the  relief  of  the  poore  prisoners  in  and  aboute  London 


TAYLOR  OF  LIDGATE. 


245 


threscore  and  tonne  poundes.  'J’o  the  poore  of  Cerne,  Burton  Montegue  and  Shrowton  in  Dorsset 
Sheire  at  the  discretion  of  my  sonne  Master  Thomas  Freake  and  my  daughter  thirtie  poundes.  To 
the  poore  in  Stetchworthe  in  the  countie  of  Cambridge,  in  Withersffeildc  in  Suffolcke  where  my  sister 
Cocke  dwelleth,  and  in  Gaseley  in  Suffolcke.  To  my  saide  sister  Margaret  Cocke  widowe  one 
hundred  poundes.  My  cosen  John  Mayle  and  his  wief  to  the  vse  of  their  fower  sonnes.  And  more 
I  give  vnto  my  said  sister  Margaret  Cocke  a  moorninge  gowne  and  one  ringe  of  gould  withe  a 
deathes  head  of  an  ounce  weight.  I  give  vnto  her  daughter  Marye  Musket  fffftie  poundes  and  vnto 
her  two  sonnes  Thomas  and  Harrye  Musket  tenne  poundes  a  peice.  Vnto  Mary  Tailor  widowe  of 
Robert  Tailor  a  ringe  of  gould  of  an  ounce  weight  withe  a  Deathes  lieade  and  the  same  vnto  everie 
daughter  of  the  said  Robert  Tailor.  Vnto  John  Tailor  nowe  dwellinge  in  Gaselye  being  the  eldest 
sonne  of  James  Tailor  deceased  the  somme  of  two  hundred  poundes,  the  same  to  everye  other 
childc  of  the  said  James  Tailor.  To  my  nephew  John  Hildersham  one  hundred  poundes  and  to  my 
nephewe  Richarde  Hildersham  his  brother  one  hundred  poundes.  Vnto  the  maynetenaunee  of  Martha 
their  sister  fiftie  poundes.  To  her  sister  Marye  a  goulde  ringe.  I  doe  forgive  vnto  Francis  Langley 
suclie  moneys  as  he  owethe  me.  To  the  vse  of  my  neece  Marie  Webbe,  her  husband  to  make  vnto 
her  an  estate  of  his  landes  in  Withersfeild.  Vnto  my  nephewe  Charles  Burroughe  twentie  poundes 
and  to  his  sister  nowe  the  wief  of  one  Sadler  twentie  poundes.  Vnto  Isaac  Burrell  sonne  of 
Lambert  Burrell  tenne  poundes  at  his  age  of  twentie  and  one  yeres.  Vnto  my  godsonne  Thomas 
Harpham  and  to  Thomas  Harpham  his  father.  Vnto  my  lovinge  frende  Master  John  Heardson 
whome  I  call  sonne  a  moorninge  cloke  of  verie  fine  clothe  for  a  remetnbraunce  of  my  love.  A 
dynner  to  be  made  amongist  my  familier  frendes  at  the  house  of  Thomas  Cressye  called  the 
Wyndemyll  in  Lothebury  as  my  kinde  frendes  Sir  Thomas  Walsingham  and  Master  Walter  Fletcher 
shall  thinke  meete.  One  half  of  my  geodes  vnto  Elizabeth  my  daughter  to  her  owne  propper  vse 
and  the  other  half  amongest  her  children  at  their  lawfull  ages  of  twentie  and  fower  yeres  or  dayes 
of  marriage.  I  make  the  said  Elizabeth  my  sole  executrix  saving  of  Indentures  passed  vnto  me 
by  the  said  Thomas  Freake  her  husband,  whereof  I  make  my  cosen  John  Mayle  executor.  Probatum 


P.C.C.  2  Woodhall. 


tertio  die  Januarij  1600. 


George  Tayler  of  Lidgate  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  gentleman,  20th  May  1633.  Lands  to 
Katherine  my  wife  during  the  term  of  her  natural  life.  Lands  (specified)  to  my  daughter  in 
law  Blanche,  now  the  wife  of  Thomas  Loveringe  of  Cambridge  gentleman,  late  the  wife  of  my 
son  Geoige  Tayler;  he  to  give  acquittance  in  disharge  of  all  claims,  and  the  executors  of  John 
Hills,  D.l).,  late  of  Fulbourne  in  Cambridgeshire  also  to  give  acquittances;  if  not  said  lands  to 
Katherine  my  wife  absolutely.  To  John  Tayler,  son  of  my  late  sou  George  Tayler  and  the  said 
Blanche  his  wife,  reversion  of  said  lands.  To  four  of  my  grandchildren,  namely,  Anne  Dcreslye, 
George  Dereslye,  Katherine  Tayler  and  George  Tayler.  Katherine  my  said  wife  to  be  executrix. 


l’robat.  14  April  1634. 


Arch.  Sudb.  “  Column,”  fo.  318. 


246 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  Bant t  (Kltjabtflj  jfreke,  1659. 

I  Dame  Elizabeth  Freke,  widdow,  late  wife  of  Sr  Thomas  Freke  of  Ivverne  Courtnay  als 
Shroton  in  the  county  of  Dorsett  Knight  being  aged  & »  now  weake  of  body  doe  hereby  this 
second  day  of  December  1639  make  this  my  last  will.  My  bodj'  to  bee  buryed  in  the  vault  of 
the  church  of  Iwerne  Courtney  where  my  late  husband  S1'  Thomas  Freke  was  buryed,  decently  it 
without  pompe.  And  concerniuge  my  leases  plate  Jewells  goods  <fc  chatties  wherewith  it  hath 
pleased  God  to  bless  mee  either  as  executrix  vnto  my  late  ffather  Mr  John  Taylor  or  as  executrix 
vnto  my  firstc  husband  Mr  ffranuis  Smith  or  any  waves  by  my  late  husband  Sr  Thomas  Freke 
I  bequeathe  the  same  in  manner  followinge.  I  doc  give  vnto  my  sonne  Francis  Smith  the  sume 
of  three  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  my  sonne  Robt  Freke  three  hundred  pounds.  I  forgive  my  sonne 
Raufe  his  debt  of  flower  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  my  sonne  Thomas  Freke  three  hundred  pounds. 
Vnto  my  sonne  William  Freke  ffive  hundred  pounds  and  I  forgive  him  the  one  hundred  pounds 
hee  owes  mee.  Vnto  my  daughter  Jane  Tregonwell  my  Jewell  adorned  with  a  blew  Saphire  some 
Rubies  &  Diamonds  &  my  coach  &  furniture  therevnto  belongingo,  and  to  my  sonne  Tregonwell 
the  ffifty  pounds  which  hee  owetli  mee  to  buy  him  coach  horses.  Vnto  my  loveing  daughter  the 
Lady  Covert  a  ringe  of  fforty  pounds  price  as  a  token  of  my  love.  Vnto  my  flower  daughters 
in  lawe  twenty  pounds  apiece.  Vnto  my  grandchild  John  Horsey  one  hundred  pounds.  Twoe 
hundred  pounds  to  purchase  annuity  for  Elizabeth  the  daughter  of  Sr  George  Horsey  Knt.  The. 
foresaid  John  Horsey  brother  of  said  Elizabeth.  Vnto  my  grandchildren  Mabell  Hastings,  Frances 
Hastings  and  her  three  brothers,  Katherine  daughter  of  my  sonne  Robert  Freke,  Francis  Smith. 
Vnto  my  cousin  Christopher  Langley  one  hundred  pounds.  Vnto  Richard  Dun  my  apprentice  ffive 
pounds.  I  doe  forgive  my  cozen  Elizabeth  Meggs  the  ten  pounds  arrere  of  her  rent.  I  appointe 
my  Executor  to  bestowe  one  hundred  pounds  in  blackes  for  mourninge  to  my  owne  sonnes  and 

daughter  Tregonwell  and  to  such  servants  as  my  Executor  shall  thinke  fitt.  And  I  doe  ordayne 

my  sonne  John  Freke  executor.  And  I  doe  will  that  my  said  executor  shall  sell  my  chayne  of 
perle  consistinge  of  five  lincks.  And  doe  make  Mr  Doctor  Wood  and  Richard  Rogers  Esq <5  overseers, 
and  for  their  paynes  I  give  them  a  piece  of  plate  of  the  value  of  tenn  pounds  a  piece.  Probatum 
decimo  septimo  die  ffebruarij  1640  Juramento  Johannis  Freke  filij  dcoe  defunct. 

P.C.C.  19  Evelyn. 

Sir  Thomas  Freke  of  Ewern  Courtney,  son  of  Robert  Freke,  Esq.,  one  of  the  Tellers  of  the 

Exchequer  in  the  reigns  of  Henry  VIII  and  Queen  Elizabeth,  was  a  person  of  considerable  note 

in  the  county  of  Dorset.  The  parish  church  of  Ewern  Courtney  (a  place  more  generally  known 
as  Shroton)  was  rebuilt  by  him  in  1614.  It  is  a  typical  specimen  of  the  church  architecture  of 
the  period.  The  burial  place  of  the  Frekes  is  at  the  higher  end  of  the  north  aisle  and  is 
enclosed  by  wooden  screens  curiously  carved  with  corbel  heads  and  pinnacles  and  scroll  work,  the 
cornice  of  one  of  which  supports  the  Arms  of  Taylor  of  Lidgate.  Within,  a  stately  monument 
commemorates  Sir  Thomas,  who  died  in  1633,  and  Dame  Elizabeth.  A  long  and  eloquent 
inscription  records  their  virtues.  On  their  escutcheon — Freke,  Sable  two  bars  Or,  in  chief  two 
mullets  of  the  same,  impales  Taylor  quartering  Beniclcre  and  Cely.  The  Crest  is  a  bull’s  head 
eouped  Sable,  horned  Or.  The  matches  of  their  numerous  children  are  indicated  by  other  shields. 
There  is  a  full  pedigree  of  the  Frekes  in  Hutchins’  “History  of  Dorset,”  vol.  iv.  From  Ralph 
Freke,  a  younger  son  of  Sir  Thomas,  descend  the  Hussey-Frekes  of  Hannington  in  Wiltshire.  It 
was  William  Freke,  brother  of  Sir  Thomas,  who  became  the  ancestor  of  the  Frekes,  Baronets  of 
West  Bilncy  in  Norfolk,  and  of  the  Evans-Frekes,  Barons  Carbury. 


TAYLOR  OF  LlDGATE. 


247 


i&rtitgree,  Cambrfogesbtre  Wtsitatton.  1619. 


Hart.  MS.  1401,  fo.  S6b  87. 


Thomas  Taylor  of  Lidgate, - 
in  vo.  Cam:  an 0  1505. 


Thomas  John  Taylor  of=^ fielder.  Edmond 

Taylor,  Stretchworth  in  Taylor, 

son :  <fc  h:  co.  Camb:  5  sonne. 


a  da. 


Robert  Taylor^.  .  .  da.  George  Taylor- f-Margarel,  da:  to 


of  Gaseley, 
3  sonne. 


to  ..  . 
Harvey. 


of  Lidgatt,  J 
sonne. 


1 — r 


- r— — — — - 1  r — | - j - 1 

...wife  Margaret,  Thomas  Taylor.  Isaacke,  John  Mary, wife  Thomas  Taylor.  Joane.  ...wife 

to  ...  m  ...  .  —  4  sonne.  Taylor  to  James  —  to  ..  . 

llildis-  Cocke  of  Edmond  2  sonne.  of  Land:  Langley  of  James  Taylor.  Wyattof 

ham.  Witherfield.  3  son:  Tharlowe.  BurweU. 


4.  Ann  vxor  Gef- 
jerey  Lancaster. 


I — i  “ 
Ann  <jfc 
Margaret. 


John  Bacon  of 
Ilassett  in  SuJ). 


3.  Alice  vxor  Jo. 
Everard  of  Haxoden. 


- 1 — T" 

Franc. 


John. 


- 1 — i  • 

Timothy 

Lancaster. 

Geffery. 


Ann. 

Amy. 


George 

Taylor. 


- 1 

Dorothy. 


William  Taylor, 
2  sonne. 


2.  Amy.  vxor  John 
Webbe  of  Cowling. 


M argery  vx.  Hugh 
Lancaster. 


Margaret. 

Martha. 


— i — r 

John. 


William. 


— l 

Rich: 


Adam 

Webbe. 


Thomas 

Lancaster. 


I 


Margaret. 


Caglor  ilebtgm,  College  of  3rms. 

Thomas  le  Talor  of  Carlisle,  co.  Cumberland.=pJane,  daur.  of  .  .  .  Egleouby. 


John  le  Talor  of  Carlisle  aforesaid.  =fTsobel.  daur.  of 


Townes  of  co.  Northumberland. 


Thomas  le  Talor  of  Lidgate,  co.  Suffolk. -pMary,  daur.  and  heir  of  John  Beniclere,  who  bore  for  Arms,  Or,  a  lion 

|  rampant  guardant  Gules,  collared  Argent. 

, - 1 

Thomas  le  Talor  of  Lidgate  aforesaid.=j=Elizth,  daur.  and  heir  of  Rich®  Sely,  who  bore  for  Arms,  Argent,  a  chevron 

|  Gules  between  3  eagles  displayed  Sable. 

I - 1 

John  le  Talor  of  Lidgate  aforesaid  and  of  Stetch  worth,  Co.  Cambridge.=j=Elizth,  daur.  of  John  Helder  of  co.  Suffolk. 


Thomas  le  Edmond  le  Talor,  John  le  Talor, =j=Berseba,  Isaac  le  Ta-  Jone,  mar- 

Talor,  eldest  2nd  son.  slain  at  3rd  but  eld-  !  one  of  the  lor,  4th  &  ried  to 

son,  slain  at  “  Muskelbrough  est  surviving  |  daurs.  of  youngest  Rich'*  Hil- 


William=j=Margaret. 
Cocke  of 
\\  itherfeild 


“  Moterell.” 
Died  s.p. 


Field.”  Died 
s.p. 


son  &  heir. 


Edwd  Hall 
of  London. 


dersham. 


co.  Suffolk. 


Francis  Smith,  Citizen  &  Mercer  of  London, =Elizabeth,r=Sir  Thos.  Freake 
whose  ancestors  &  descendants’  names  are  only  child  of  Iwerne  Court- 
recorded  in  the  Heralds’  College.  1891.  k  heir.  nay,  co.  Dorset, 


l — 1 

.  .  Musket.=j=Marye. 


_ I 


Thomas  Musket. 


Harrye  Musket. 


248 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Caglor  of  ilt&pte. 

Thomas  le  Taylor  de  Carliell  in  com.  Cumb'land.=f=Jane,  da.  of  ..  .  Eyleonby,  Esq. 


John  1c  Taylor  of  Carliell,  Esq.^lsabetl,  da.  oj  .  .  .  Townes  of  Northumberland. 


Thomas  le  Taylor  of  Lidyate  in  com.  Suff.  A  r.~  Mary,  da.  and  hey  re  of  John  Beniclere ,  Esq. 


Alice,  living  1  (A‘±  — Thomas  le  Taylor  of  Lidyate  in  Buff.,  Esq.  Thomas  Tay-: 
when  her  husband  lor  made  lxis  Will,  P.C.C.  10  Spert.  1-1  May  1542  ;  probate, 
made  his  will.  14  Oct.  1542  ;  desires  to  be  buried  in  the  church.  Iuq. 

p.m.,  34  H.  8  ;  lands  in  Suffolk  and  Cambridgeshire. 


-Elizabeth  da:.b  heyre  of  Richard  Sely,  merchant  of  the  Staple 
of  Calais,  who  made  Will,  P.C.C.  25  Dogett,  4  July  1493, 
proved  30  July  1493  ;  and  to  whom  his  brother,  George 
Cely,  bequeathed  the  jewell  he  had  of  King  Richard. 


George=pMargaret,  da.  of 


Taylor  of 
Lydgate, 
gent.,  s. 
and  heir, 
<ct.  30  in 
1542  ; 
bom  circa 
1512. 


John  Bacon  of  Hes- 
sett  in  co.  Suffolk, 
who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  lOCrumwell 
1  Nov.  1530.  Her 
Will,  Arch.Sudb.,is 
dated  1  Jan.  1600. 


John  le  Taylor  of  Lidyate ■ 
ib  of  Stctchworth  in  coin. 
Suff.,  Ar.,  ob.  vitA  pain's. 
John  Taylor  of  Steeli- 
worth,  co.  Camb.,  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  37  Hogen, 
11  Feb.  1535  ;  probate 
5  July  1536. 


=  Elizabeth ,  da.  of  John  Helder  of  Suff 
She  probably  remar.  Thos.  Burrell  of 
Stechworth,  who  made  Will,  P.C  C  31 
Mellershe,  18  Nov.  1559,  whose  da., 
Elizabeth  Burrell  mar.  Tho.  Bur- 
rough  of  Wickhambrook. 


Edmond  Taylor, 
living  1542. 

Margaret,  was 
mar .  and  had 
i.S3ue  in  1542. 


Robert  Taylor=pMary,  dan. 


of  Gaseley  in 
com.  Suff.  ; 
had  sons  and 
caus.  in  1542. 


of  .  .  .  Har¬ 
vey.  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


~r 


Thomas  Taylor.  James  Taylor  of  Gaseley.  John  Taylor.  3  sou,  ...  wife  to  Wyatt 
Harl.  MS.  1560.  Harl.  MS.  1560.  Harl.  MS.  1560.  of  Burwell. 


Thomasle 

Edmond 

John  le  Taulor,  3=f-  Bethsahc, 

Isaak  J  oane, manned 

Margaret,  married 

Taylor,  1 

Taylor,  2 

sonne,  of  London, 

da:  of 

Taylor,  4  to  Richard  Hil- 

to  IVilUam  Cock  of 

snnne, 

sonne.stayne 

Esq.,  citizen  and 

Edw.Hall 

sonne,  un-  dersham. 

Withersfiekl,  co. 

slayne  at 

at  M  uscle- 

haberdasher,  made 

of  Lon¬ 

der  age  — 

Suff.  She  made 

Mottrell ; 

borouyh 

Will,  P.C.C.  2 

don,  Esq. 

in  1541.  Elizabeth, 

Will,  Arch.  Sudb. 

s.p.  Liv¬ 

feild,  s.p.  ; 

Woodhall,  13  Nov. 

living  a0  1535. 

13  Oct. 1607  ;  prob. 

ing  a° 

living  1542. 

1600  ;  prob.  3  Jan. 

30  Nov.  same  year. 

1542. 

following. 

W* 

Mary,  ux.  JamesLang- 
ley  of  Thurlow  in  com. 
Suff.  Harl.  MS.  1560. 


Christopher  Langley, 
devisee  1639  of  Dame 
Elizabeth  Freake. 


FrancisSmith,citizeu=r£7««ietA<i,  (mica  =j=Sir  Thomas  Freake 


and  mercer  of  Lon¬ 
don,  1st  husband. 
Marriage  licence,  18 
Dec.  1585,  granted 
by  the  Bp.  of  Loudon ; 
died  before  13  Nov. 
1600. 


filia :  made  will 
as  Dame  Eliza¬ 
beth  Freke,  2 
Dec.  1639;  prob¬ 
ate  17  Feb.  1640 
to  John  Freke, 
her  sou. 


of  Cerne,  co.  Dor¬ 
set,  and  of  Ewerne 
Courtnay,  Kt ,  2d 
husband.  Will, 
P.C.C.  30  March 
1633.  Funeral  Cer¬ 
tificate  1633. 

I - , 


Giles  Allingtou  of 
Westley.  co.  Camb. 
gent.;  Will, P.C.C. 
37  Harrington,  24 
April  1592;  grand¬ 
son  of  Sir  Giles 
Allington  &  Mary 
Gardiner. 


:SusanCoek. 
Allington 
Pedigree, 
Harl.  MS. 


1534, 

15*>. 


fo. 


Richard  Musket  t 
of  Harleston  Par- 
va,  co.  Suffolk, 
gent.;  Will, Arch. 
Sudb.,  20  Oct. 
1626.  Iuq.  p. 
mortem,  3  Car. 
13  Sept.  1627. 


- 1 

-Mary  Cock. 
For  her  mar¬ 
riage  settle¬ 
ment  see 
Close  Roll,  5 
|  Jan.  25  Eliz. 


Francis  Smith,  sole  issue  by 
this  marriage.  See  pedigree  of 
Smith  of  Kilbukn. 


John  Freake,  Esq.,  son 
and  heir.  See  Burke’s 
Extinct  Baronetage. 


Giles  Allington,  devisee 
of  Margaret  Cock,  his 
grandmother,  1607. 


Thomas  Muskett,  devisee  of  John 
Taylor,  1600.  Ob.  vita  pair  is.  Bur. 
at  Harleston,  1620. 


1.  Margery, 
ux,  Hugh 
Lancaster, 
and  had 
issue. 


2.  Amy,  ux. 
John  Webb 
of  Cowling; 
and  had 


George  Taylor  of=f=Katherine, 


Lidgate,  gent.,  son  & 
heir  ;  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  20  May  1633, 
proved  14  April  1634. 


living  1633. 


3.  Alice,  ux.  John  Ever- 
ard  of  Hawkedon,  co. 
Suff..  and  had  issue, 
three  daughters  Ann, 
Amy  and  Dorothy 
Everard. 


4.  Ann,  ux.  Geffry  Lan¬ 
caster  of  Owsden,  co. 
Suff.,  Gent.,  who  made 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  18 
June  1597,  and  names 
brother  Geo.  Tavlor. 


William  Taylor, 
2d  sou  ;  Adrnon. 
June  1604,  to 
Marie,  his  relict. 


George  Taylor  of  Lidgate,  gent.  ;= 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Nonv.,  proved  27 
July  1621  ;  also  Arch.  Sudb. 
Ob.  vitd  patris. 


Blanche,  living  1621;  = 
remarried  Thomas 
Lovering. 


=Thomas  Lovering,  2d  hus¬ 
band  ;  named  1633  in  George 
Taylor’s  will,  and  then  of 
Cambridge. 


J  ohu  Taylor, heir  pre¬ 
sumptive  &  residuary 
legatee  to  his  bro¬ 
ther,  1621. 


— l 

.  .  .  ux.  .  .  _  Deresley  ; 
had  issue,  George  Deres¬ 
ley,  named  1633  jn  ,hi* 
grandfather's  will. 


George  Taylor,  son  and  heir, 
1621  ;  named  1633  in  his 
grandfather’s  will. 


John  Taylor,  devisee  of 
his  grandfather,  George 
Taylor,  1633. 


Katherine,  devisee  of  her 
grandfather.  1633.  Query  if 
daughter  of  John  Taylor. 


The  Taylor  pedigree  in  Cooke’s  Visitatiou  of  London,  1568,  Harl.  MS.  1463,  is  printed  in  italics.  A  pedigree  of  Taylor  of 
Lidgate,  from  llarl.  MS.  1560,  is  given  in  the  Visitations  of  Suffolk,  edited  by  Mr.  Walter  C.  Metcalfe,  F.S.A. 


TAYLOR  OF  LIDGATE 


249 


of  Utlbunt. 


William  Smith  alias  Heriz  or  Harris  of  Withcote,  co.  Leicester  ==.  .  .  daughter  of  William  Ashby  of  Lowesby,  co.  Leicester 
Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Withcote,  1495,  when  he  presented  to  I  She  remarried  Roger  Ratclift'e. 
the  Rectone 


John  Smith  alias  Harris  of  Withcote  aforesaid  ;= 
Will  dated  23  Oct.  1543,  proved  13  Nov.  1545 
(42  Pynnyug  P.C.C.) 


Roger  Smith  of  Withcote, =j=Frances  dau.  of 
son  and  heir  ;  inherited  I  Sir  Thomas  Grif- 
landsinTilston,co  Leic., of  j  fin  of  Dingley,  co. 
his  stepfather, 1558;  High  |  Northampton 
Sheriff  for  co.  Leicester,  i 
42  Eliz.  Died  1603.  si/ 


:Dorothy,  da.  of  Richard  Cave  of  Stanford,  co.  Northampton,  and  sister  of  Sir  Ambrose 
Cave.  She  remarried  Henry  Pole  of  Withcote  aforesaid,  Knight  of  Rhodes  (whose  Will,  IS 
April  1558,  was  proved  17  Feb.  following,  P.C.C.  39  Welles).  Living  20  June  1584. 


- ! - p - — - 

Frances  Clement  Smith 
Smith, 2d  of  Oakham,  co. 
son, 1601.  Leic.,  3d  son. 


si/ 


4/ 


..  dau.  of- 
Bayard  of 
co.  Leic.  & 
relict  of 
Wye,  1st 
wife. 


=Erasmus  Smith  of- 
Somerby,  co.  Leic., 
5th  son.  Bur.  at 
Husbands  Bos- 
worth,  Leic.,  1615, 


sJ/Ect.  81.  M.I. 


-Margaret,  da. 
of  Cecil,  Lord 
Burghley,  and 
widow  of 
Roger  Cave. 


- 1, 

W  illiam 
Smith,  6th 
son,  liv¬ 
ing  1558. 
Drowned. 


Ambrose  Smith,  Citizen  and  Mercer=j=Joan,  da.  of  John  Coo  of  Cog- 
of  London,  4th  son.  Purchased  geshall,  co.  Essex  ;  died  30 


~r 


Withcote  of  his  eldest  brother.  Will, 
20  June  1584, proved  23  same  month. 
Bur.  at  Withcote.  M.I. 


Henry  Smitli- 
of  Withcote 
aforesaid  ;  eld¬ 
est  son  ;  living 
1605. 


Si/1 


...  dau.  of  Henry 
SkipwitliofCotes, 
parish  of  Prest- 
wold,  co.  Leic., 
and  sister  of  Wm. 
Skipwith,  Mayor 
of  London. 


April  1601  ;  Will  proved  2  May 
following  (28  Woodhall,  P.C.C  ) 
Portrait  in  Guildhall,  Norwich. 


Robert 
Smith  of 
Groby, 
Leic,, 
7th  son. 


AnthonySmith 
of  co.  Kent, 
1568,  8th  son. 

•4/  ■  ■ 


Henry 

Smith, 

9th 


George= 
Smith  of 
Withcote 
1584, 

10  th  son. 


:Mary,  da. 
of  Wm. 
Allen  of 
Marefield 
co.  Leic, 


— i 

Margery, 
ux. Gilbert 
Berye  of 
AshweR, 
co.Rutl’nd 


Sir  William  Smith, =f=Elizabeth,  da. 


Kt.,  Citizen  and  Mer¬ 
cer  of  London  :  Will 
21  Jan.  1619,  proved 
17  July  1620.  Free 
of  the  Mercers’  Com¬ 
pany,  1597 


of  Thomas 
Skinner, 
Mayor  of  Lon¬ 
don  ;  living 
1601. 


n]/ 


Margaret, 
wife  of  Sir 
Thos.  Wilkes, 
Kt.,  Clerk  of 
the  Council 
to  Q.  Eliza¬ 
beth. 


Elizabeth, 
wife  of  Mar¬ 
tin  Calthorpe 
of  An  ting- 
ham,  co.  Norf. 
Both  living 
1601. 


- 

Anna. 


Isabell  alias  Sibell, 
wife  of  .  .  .  Lewis. 
Remarried  .  .  .  May¬ 
nard  of  cos.  Hertford 
and  Northampton. 
She  was  living  1619. 


Francis  Smith,  Citizen  and  Mercer  of= 
London,  second  son.  Had  Freedom  of 
the  Mercers’  Company  by  patrimony, 
1582.  Sole  executor  to  his  father,  1584 ; 
marriage  license  granted  18  Dec.  1585 
(Bishop  of  London)  ;  died  before  13 
Nov.  1600.  (First  husband.) 


=Elizabeth,  only  child  and  heir  of  John=f-Sir  Thomas  Freake  of  Cerne,  co. 


Taylor  of  London.  (See  his  pedigree.; 
Sole  executrix  to  her  father  and  first 
husband  ;  buried  at  Iwerne  Courtnay 
alias  Shroton,  co.  Dorset,  23  Jan. 
1640-1,  aged  73  ;  Will  dated  2  Dec. 
1639,  proved  P.C.C.  17  Feb.  1640. 


Dorset,  and  of  Iwerne  Courtnay, 
Knight.  (Second  husband.)  One 
of  the  Tellers  of  the  Exchequer  ; 
died  5  May  1633,  aged  69.  Funeral 
Certificate  taken  7  Feb.  1633-4 ; 
.Will,  30  Mar.  1633,  P.C.C. 


Dorothy,  wife  of  Benedict 
Barnham,  Alderman  of  Lon¬ 
don  (who  d.  3  Ap.  1598,  set. 
39, bur.  at  St  Clemen  ts,East- 
cheap.  M.I.)  Remar.  Sir 
John  Packington  of  West- 
wood,  Wore.  =p 


Francis  Smith  of  Woodliaine  in  the  parish- pi  aith  (Fides,  Here, 


of  Shute,  co.  Devon,  only  son  and  heir  ; 
born  7  Sept.  1586  ;  mentioned  in  the 
will  Of  his  mother,  Dame  Elizabeth 
Freake,  1639. 


married  at  Shute 
aforesaid  5  Nov. 
1633.  MadeWillas 
Faith  Read,  1681. 


Elizabeth  Barn- 
ham,  da.  and  eoh., 
wife  of  Sir  Mervin 
Audley,  Kt.  Fine 
13  Jas. 


Alice  Barnham, 
mar.  F  ra  ncisBaeon , 
VisconntVerulam, 
I  ord  (  hancellor  of 
England. 


Dorothy  Barnham, 
da.  and  coh.,  wife 
of  Sir  John  Con¬ 
stable,  Kt.  Fine, 
13  Jas. 


Bridget  Barn¬ 
ham,  da.  &  coh., 
wife  of  Sir  Wnr. 
Soame  of  Suf¬ 
folk,  Kt.,  13  Jas. 


Francis  Smith  of  Woodliaine  aforesaid  ;  bapt.  at  Sliute: 
1634;  buried  there  1678  ;  devisee  of  his  grandmother, 
Dame  Elizabeth  Freake,  1639.  Admon.  in  the  Dean  and 
Chapter’s  Court,  Exeter,  1679  to  Joyce,  his  relict. 

r  ■■ 


Joyce,  da.  of  Henry  Ver- 
yard  of  Branscombe,  co. 
Devon,  bur.  at  Shute  11 
March  1718. 


Richard  Smith, 
bapt.  at  Shute, 
2  April  1637. 


Mary,  bapt.  at 
Shute  10  Mar. 
1636. 


- 1 

Elizabeth,  bapt. 
at  Shute  30 
April  1639. 


Henry  Smith  of  Bulkhayn  in-j-Elizabeth, 
the  parish  of  Shute  ;  bapt.  at  his  wife, 
Shute  1654.  Will  dated  25  living  1711. 
May  1711,  proved  at  Exeter 
8  May  1712. 


William  Smith,  Daughters.  Francis  Smith  of  Whit- 
born  12  Dec.  ford,  Shute  ;  bapt.  11 

1655;  bapt.  at  Nov.  1668.  Will,  27  Sept. 

Shute  aforesaid.  1714,  proved  4  Nov.  1714, 

at  Exeter.  > 


-Mary. 


- 1 

Janies  Smith  of=f-Mary. 
Shute;  bapt. there 20 
Aug.  1672.  Will,  4 
Aug.  1749,  proved 
1752  at  Exeter. 


Francis  Smith  of  Bulkhayn^f  Eleanor,  da.  of  Thomas  Robertson 


and  of  Smiters  pit,  parish  of 
Shute  ;  bapt.  1691  ;  bought 
lease  of  Smiters  pit  of  the 
trustees  of  Lord  Petre  for  99 
years,  1716  ;  living  1758  ; 
died  before  1784. 


See  next  page. 


or  Robinson  of  Shute ;  h° pt.  25 
Nov.  1695 ;  mar.  at  Colyton  13 
Nov.  1716  ;  died  at  St.  Martin’s  le 
Grand,  London,  aged  90  ;  bur.  at 
Christ  Cli.  and  St.  Leonard’s, 
Foster  Lane,  24  Oct.  1784.  M.I. 


Elizabeth,  Joan,  Henry  Smith  of 
wife  of  bapt.  9  Um bourn,  Shute; 
Wm.Reed.  Mar.  bapt.  1680  ;  Will, 
—  1685  at  24  May  1761, 

Joyce,  liv-  Sliuie  proved  at  Exeter 
ing  1712.  afore-  3  July  1761;  mar. 
said.  Mary  .  .  . 


StephenSmith  of  Col- 
hayn,  Shute ;  bapt. 
1683  ;  died  set.  66  ; 
M.I.  in  ShuteCliurch- 
yard.  Will  proved 
at  Exeter  23  May 
1751.  m/ 

9  T 


Nl/ 

-Tliomas- 
ine,  sister 
of  John 
Down¬ 
ing. 


250 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Smith  of  HiUmnt  — continued. 


Francis  Smith  of  Bulkhayn  aforesaid  and  of  Smiterspit,  parish  of=pEleanor,  dau.  of  Thomas  Robertson  or  Robinson  of  Shute  aforesaid  and 


Sliute  aforesaid;  bapt.  at  Shute  2  .Ian.  1691  ;  bought  of  the 
trustees  of  Robert  .lames.  Lord  Retre,  the  lease  of  Smiterspit  for 
99  years  5  Nov.  1716  ;  living  25  Feb.  1741,  25  May  1747,  and  1758  ; 
died  befoie  1784. 


I - : - 

Joyce,  Thomas  Smith,— Agnes, 
born  b.  23  Aug.  1 719;  Will 
12  Jan.  bapt.  4  Sept.  dated 
1717-8,  following  at  18  Jan. 
bapt.  Shute.  Admou.  1768. 

7  Feb.  at  Exeter  16 
1717-8.  October  1767 


- r - 

Francis  Smith  of- 
Shute,bornl7Aug. 
1723;  bapt.  10  Sep. 
following  ;  Will  25 
Oct.  1756;  Ad  moil. 
11  May  1757  at 
Exeter. 


:Eleai)or 
Clapp  of 
Farring- 
don,  co. 
Devon  ; 
mar.  1 0 
Nov.1746. 


Dorothy,  his  wife,  dau.  of  .  .  .  Swain  ;  bapt.  at  Shute  aforesaid  25 
Nov.  1695  ;  married  at  Colyton  13  Nov.  1716  ;  died  at  St.  Martin’s  le 
Grand,  London,  16  and  buried  at  Christ  Church  and  St.  Leonard’s, 
Foster  Lane,  London,  24  Oct.  1784,  aged  90.  M.I. 


Eleanor,  wife  of 
Edward  Holwell 
of  Sidbury,  co 
I  >evon  ;  bapt.  at 
Shute  3  Dec  1721; 
living  1802. 


Dinah,  born  27 
Sept.  1725  ; 
bapt.  at  Shute 
17  Oct.  ;  died 
27  Sep.  1746, 
aged  21  years. 


Henry  Smith,  born  9  May 
1727  ;  bapt.  at  Shute  ;  died 
24  and  bur.  26  Oct.  1751 
at  St.  Katherine  near  Tower 
Hill.  Admon.  28  Jan.  1758 
at  Exeter  to  Francis  Smith, 
his  father. 


I - 

Carolus. 

Elizabeth. 

Joel,  boru 
1734. 


Stephen  Smith  of  Kilburn,  co.  Middx. ;  Sarah,  born 

boru  at  Shute  14  March  1731-2  ;  bapt.  30  Jan.  1737 ; 

there  4  April  1732  ;  bur.  17  Jan.  1815  bapt.  1  March 

at  St. Leonard’s  Church  aforesaid:  removed  1737  atShute; 

to  Christ  Church  aforesaid  1819:  Will,  married  Dan- 

14  Dec.  1802,  proved  in  Consistory  Court,  iel  Hart,  and 

London,  12  April  1815.  had  issue. 


Samuel  Smith  of  Kilburn, = 
co  Middx.,  and  of  St.  Mar¬ 
tin’s  le  Grand ;  born  24  April 
1742  at  Shute  ;  bapt.  8  May 
following  ;  died  5  Oct.  1819  ; 
buried  at  Christ  Church 
aforesaid. 


n - 

Samuel  Smith, born  1772; 
died  1773  ;  bur.  at  St. 
Martin’s  le  Grand. 

Sally,  born  1675  ;  died 
1767  ;  bur.  at  Islington. 


Sarah,  born  1767  :  mar. 
1789  to  Frederick  William 
Petersdorff  of  Tottenham, 
Middlesex;  died  1848; 
bur.  at  Abney  Park 
Cemetery. 


Elizabeth,  born  1769  ; 
mar.  6  Sept.  1793  to 
George  Scott  of  Sliep- 
herd’sBush,  co.  Middlesex; 
Hied  1855  :  bur.  at  Kensal 
Green.  M.I. 


Eleanor,  born  1770; 
bapt.  at  Christ  Church, 
Newgate  St.  ;  died  5 
Mar.  1856  unmarried  ; 
bur.  at  Kensal  Green 
Cemetery.  M.I 


Sarah,  dau.  of  John  Neale  of 
Berkeley,  co.  Gloucester;  born 
8  April  1739  ;  bapt.  at  Berkeley; 
married  at  St.  Paul's,  Covent 
Garden,  Middx.,  1764  ;  died 
at  Kilburn  1821  ;  bur.  at  Christ 
Church  aforesaid.  M.I. 


Dinah  Smith  of  Paradise 
House,  Kilburn  :  born  13  Nov. 
1779  ;  bapt.  at  Christ  Church 
aforesaid  ;  died  unmarried  24 
Jan.  1855  ;  buried  at  Kensal 
Green  Cemetery.  M.I. 


r- 


Richard  Neale  of  Bristol, =fAmi 
co.  Glouc.  :  born  1 5  Dec. 

1760  ;  bapt.  at  Berkeley  in 
that  county  :  died  24  June 
1 817;  buried  in  St.  Nicholas' 
Church,  Bristol. 


Smith,  born  25 
May  1777  ;  bapt.  at 
ChristChurch, Newgate 
St. :  mar.  there  17  Aug. 
1802  ;  died  20  April 
1831.  and  bur.  there. 


Samuel  Smith  of  Oakland  House, -y- 
Cricklewood,  Willesden,  Middlesex, 
formerly  surgeon  in  the  Northum- 
land  Fencibles  ;  born  8  Sept.  1774; 
bapt.  at  Christ  Church  aforesaid  ; 
died  15  May  1 866;  buried  at  Calais. 


Giace  Callender,  only  surviving  child  and  heir 
of  Robert  Anderson,  Lieut. -Colonel  in  the  East 
India  Co.’s  service  ;  born  at  Fort  William, 
Bengal,  East  Indies,  29  Sept.  1784  ;  mar.  at  St. 
Andrew's,  Holbom.  27  Jan.  1803  ;  died  11  May 
1812  ;  buried  at  Christ  Church  aforesaid. 


Georgina  Neale,  only  surviving=T=Samuel  Montgomery  Smith  of 


dau.  ;  born  26  May  and  bapt. 
at  All  Saints’  Bristol,  27  June 
1 803;  mar.  at  Fulham.  Middx., 
20  July  1824  ;  died  5  Nov. 
1885. 


Paradise  House,  Kilburn  ;  born 
7  April  1805  ;  bapt.  at  St. 
Andrew's.  Holborn  ;  died  26 
June  1880;  buried  at  Ivensul 
Green  Cemetery. 


Sidney  Smith,  boru 
1803  and  died  1805. 

Georgiana  Diana, 
born  1810  ;  died 
1812. 


Robert  Anderson  Sidney 
Smith,  born  27  Aug.  1808  ; 
bapt.  at  St.  Andiew’s,  Hol¬ 
born  ;  died  28  Oct.  1885  ; 
buried  at  Highgate  Ceme¬ 
tery. 


Grace,  born  13 
Aug.  1806  ;  died 
unmarried  2  Sept. 
1887;  bur.atNor- 
wood  Cemetery. 
M.I. 


Samuel  Montgomery  Charles7 
A  If  red  Anderson  Smith  of  Para¬ 
dise  House  aforesaid,  F.R.C.S.  ; 
born  15  June  1825  ;  bapt.  at 
Willesden  Church  ;  living  1891 
at  Richmond  Road,  Barnsbury, 
London,  s.p. 


= Jessie,  youngest  dau.  of  Henry  Kendall 
of  Newmarket,  and  coheir  of  her  brother 
Walter  Norton  Kendall  of  Newmarket 
aforesaid  ;  born  3  May  1833  ;  married  at 
St.  Stephen  s,  Shepherd's  Bush,  8  April 
1858;  died  27  Feb.  1876  ;  buried  at 
Brotnptou  Cemetery. 


Gordon  Smith  of- 
Richmond  Road. 
Barnsbury.M.ll.C.  S. ; 
born  11  Jan.  1829  ; 
bapt.  at  Willesden 
(  hurcli  aforesaid  ; 
living  1891. 


^Henrietta  Alice,  dau.  of  Georgina, 
John  Gutsole  of  Dover;  horn  26  Jan. 
boru  10  July  1823  ;  mar.  1827  ;  liv- 
12  June  1855  at  St.  James'  ing  uumar- 
Dover  ;  died  6  Dec.  1883  ;  ried,  1891. 
buried  at  Brompton  Ceme¬ 
tery. 


Samuel  Gordon  Smith 
of  Richmond  Road, 
Barnsbury,  M.R.C.S.  ; 
born  20  June  1858  ; 
bapt.  at  St.  Andrew’s, 
Islington  ;  living  un¬ 
married  1891. 


Anderson  Francis  Smith, 
M.R.C.P.  and  M.R.C.S., 
Edinburgh  ;  born  14  Dec. 
1859;  bapt.  at  St.  Andrew's. 
Islington  ;  living  unmarried 
1891. 


Alfred  Longman  Wilson,7 
Clerk,  Curate  of  South- 
gate,  co.  Middlesex,  1884; 
born  at  Holloway,  co. 
Middlesex.  14  Nov.  1846  ; 
living  1891. 


Eleanor  Landewar- 
neck,  born  16  May 
1856  ;  bapt.  at  St. 
Andrew’s, Islington ; 
married  there  2 1 
Sept.  1882  ;  living 
-1891. 


- 1. 

Henrietta 
Jessie 
Georgina, 
boru  22 
Sep.  1867. 


I,  Henry  Farnham  lluike,  Esquire,  Somerset  Herald  of  Arms  and  Genealogist  of  the  Most  Illustrious  Order  of  Saint  Patrick 
do  hereby  certify  and  declare  that  the  Pedigrees  of  Smith  and  Le  Talor,  with  their  family  connections  and  arms,  are  duly  registered 
in  the  Records  of  the  Heralds’  College,  London,  as  witness  my  hand  this  fourth  day  of  March,  1891. 

H.  Farnham  Burke,  Somerset. 


aminonti  of  IBurp 


Mill  of  Inljtt  Hammond,  11.®.,  1590. 

I  John  Hamond  Doctor  of  lawe  the  one  and  twentie  day  of  December  the  two  and  thirtie- 
ycare  of  the  raigne  of  onr  soueraigne  Ladie  Queene  Elizabeth  doe  make  and  declare  my  last  will  as 
ensueth.  One  moitie  of  my  goods  and  chattells  (except  my  bookcs)  I  bequeath  to  my  welbeloued 
good  wife  Agnes  Hamond  and  the  other  moietie  thereof  amounge  all  my  children  equally  amoungest 
them.  And  my  wife  shall  haue  the  use  of  the  same  towardes  the  bringing  vpp  of  my  said 
children  so  longe  as  she  keepeth  her  self  sole  and  vnmarried.  And  I  will  that  said  children 
shall  haue  theire  porcions  payed  to  them  as  they  seuerally  shall  come  to  theire  ages  of  one  and 
twentie  yeares  or  marriage,  which  shall  first  happen.  And  my  bookes  I  leaue  to  my  eldest  sonne 
to  be  kept  for  him  safely.  And  of  this  will  I  make  my  welbeloued  wife  my  sole  executrix.  And 
ouerseers  thereof  my  deere  beloued  right  worshipfull  and  good  freinds  Sr  Drewe  Drewry,  Sir  Wiftm 
Bowes,  Knightes,  Roberte  Beale  and  William  Daniel],  Esquires.  I  bequeath  all  my  lands  &  tenements 
in  the  Counties  of  the  Citie  of  London  and  Essex  to  my  said  welbeloued  wife  for  the  terme  of  her 
life,  the  reulcion  of  the  same  to  descend  to  my  sonne  and  heirc.  Witnesses,  Alexander  Nowell 
[Dean  of  St.  Paul’s]  Richard  Smyth,  William  Hamond,  Robert  Moorer.  Probatum  decimo  secundo 
die  Octobris  1590  juramto  procuratoris  Agnetis  relicte.  P.C.C.  62  Drury. 


Mill  of  ®I)omas  Uammanfr,  1599. 

Memorandum  that  the  eleuenthe  day  of  March  1599,  Thomas  Hamonde  late  of  Burie  Sfc  Ede 
in  the  countie  of  Sufi',  gent,  lying  at  the  house  of  William  Glover  of  Ashe  in  the  saide  countie 
gent,  declared  his  will  nuncupative  as  followeth.  Assurances  had  bin  made  to  him  in  trust  to  the 
vse  of  his  brother  Doctor  Hamondes  children :  viz :  from  his  brother  in  lawe  Arthure  Jenney 
esquier  for  one  hundred  and  fyftene  poundes,  and  from  his  brother  in  lawe  Edward  Ward  gent  by 
a  lease  of  the  parsonage  of  Barkwaie  and  by  bonde  for  ffive  hundred  poundes.  He  willed  that 
one  hundred  and  fyftie  poundes  of  the  said  somes,  wch  should  fyrst  grovve  due  and  be  receaved, 

2  I2 


252 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


his  brother  in  lawe  William  Glover  aforesaide  should  recevc  to  the  vse  of  his  neece  Joan  Hamond. 
He  devised  that  his  nephewe  William  Hamond  gent  should  receave  the  residue,  to  the  vse  of  his 

brothers  and  sisters,  children  of  the  saide  Doctor  Hamond,  and  should  paie  the  same  to  them 

orderlie  as  they  should  growe  of  age  ;  in  which  matter  his  saide  nephewe  William  Hamond  should 

allwaies  take  the  advice  of  the  sayd  William  Glover.  He  did  appointe  the  sayd  William  Glover 

gardian  to  Thomas  Hamond  his  sonne  duringe  of  his  minoritie,  and  that  for  theducacion  and 
bringinge  of  him  vp  Glover  should  take  the  protitt  of  his  landes  in  Moulton  in  the  countie  of  Sufi 
vntill  his  sonne  should  accomplishe  his  full  age.  Lastlie  touchinge  his  lease  of  Wennlinge  and  his 
lease  of  landes  in  Essex  he  dyd  assigne  them  to  the  Reverend  ffather  William  the  Lord  Byshopp  of 
Norwch  in  trust  for  the  use  of  his  said  sonne.  And  named  him  the  said  Lord  Byshopp  his  executor, 
saying  he  would  comitt  into  his  hands  both  lyfe  and  goods. 

Octauo  Septembris  1601  emanavit  comissio  Willmo  Hamond  nepoti  ex  fratre  dicti  defuncti  ad 
administrand  bona  durah  minori  etate  rrhome  Hamond  filij  dicti  def:  pro  eo  quod  Reverendus  in  xpo 
pater  Norwicen  Epus  oneri  execuconis  testamenti  rcnunciauit. 

Shia  pro  valore  testi  Thome  Hamond  def  Curie  P-rogatiue  Cant,  coram  nobis  in  judieio  inter 
Reverendum  in  xpo  patrem  Willm  pmissioue  divina  Norwicen  Epufh,  executorem  nominatum  voluntatis 
<lieti  Thome  Hamond  negotium  promoveii  probare  ex  vna  et  Thomam  Hamond  iuniorem  filium  dicte 
Thome  senioris  in  iuniori  sua  etate  p  .Tohem  Btirroughe  et  Willmum  Glover  curatores  ac  Henricum 
Hamond  seniorem  Willmum  Hamond  et  Edwardum  Hamond  fratres  defuncti  ac  Josephum  Warde  et 
Willmum  Glover  prox  consanguineos  dicti  defuncti  ex  altera,  Ac. 

Octavo  die  Julij  1606  emanauit  comissio  Willmo  Ward  avunculo  Thome  Hamond  filij  def  ad 
administrand  bona  &c.  eiusdem  def.  durah  minori  mtate  prefati  Thome.  •  Lris  adnis  honor  prefato 
Willmo  Hamond  cofniss  hodie  revocatf. 

t 

Tertio  die  Maij  1613  emanavit  comiss  Thome  Hamond  filio  Thome  Hatfiond  imp  de  Burie  Sci 
Ivli  def  administrand  bona  Ac.  p.  Willmu  Warde  non  plene  adtil  Necnon  ex  eo  quod  Ire  adms 
honor  dci  def  cuidam  Wni°  Hamond  fuerunt  et  sunt  revocate,  Ac. 


Mill  of  Untni  Hantmoitir,  1 600. 

Henry  Hamond  of  Burye  St  Edmunde  clothier,  25  Maye  1600.  Ynto  John  Hamond  my 
eldest  sone  my  messuage  wherin  I  now  dwell  wUl  the  seelings  and  hangings  as  it  is  now  furnished, 
and  alsoe  my  other  tenement  wherein  Edmund  Butler  nowe  dwelleth.  Ynto  the  said  John  all  my 
loonies  woade  fatts  Ac.  Vnto  William  Hamond  my  sonne  lynnen  suche  as  his  mother  shall  thincke 
meete  for  a  poore  scholler  the  firste  yeare  of  his  goinge  to  studdy  in  Cambridge.  To  Thomas 
Hamond,  Edward  Hamond,  Henry  Hamond,  my  sonnes  and  Agnes  Hamond,  Susanne  Hamond, 
Margaret  Hamond  my  daughters  twentye  poundes  apeece.  To  John  Brydon  my  sonne  in  lawe  my 
horse  colte  wch  I  haue  runnynge  in  the  pasture  of  my  brother  in  lawe  Mr  Richarde  Wybard 
dwellinge  in  High  Vngre  in  Essex,  hoping  that  this  my  smalle  gyfte  for  remembraunce  shalbe 
aeceptyd,  and  therewith  I  hartely  desire  him  to  be  a  comfort  vnto  my  wief  and  children.  And  I 


HAMMOND  OF  BURY 


253 


give  vnto  my  daughter  Mary  Brydou  his  wief  tenn  shillings  towards  the  huyeinge  of  a  hatt  or 
such  like  thiuge.  And  to  my  verie  lovinge  sister  Mistress  Margaret  Wy bal'd e  of  Parsly  hall  in 
Essex  wieffe  vnto  Richard  Wybarde  the  gentleman  aforenamed  I  wholly  give  my  daughter  Margarett 
Hamonde  to  take  hir  as  hir  owne  having  no  better  guifte.  I  make  my  wief  &  John  my  sonne 
executors.  My  lovinge  sonne  in  lawe  John  Brydon  &  my  brother  Thomas  Michel  I  to  be  the  valwers 
and  pryzers  of  my  moveables.  Probatum  duodecimo  Junij  1602  juramento  procuratoris  Johannis 
Hamonde  filij  defuncti.  P.C.C.  40  Montagu. 


Still  of  Hicljarfr  Mtibarfr,  1607, 

Richard  Wybeard  of  High  Ownger  in  the  county  of  Essex,  gentleman,  the  seaventeenth 
September  1607.  I  bequeath  to  almighty  god  my  soule  which  I  most  humbly  beseech  his  heavenly 
maiestie  even  for  his  sonne  Christe  Jesus  his  sake  to  make  partaker  of  eternall  blessedness.  My  body 
to  be  buried  in  some  convenient  place  within  the  church  of  Highe  Ownger.  To  John  Wiberd  myne 
eldest  sonne  the  somtue  of  tenn  poundes.  And  to  my  sonne  Lawrence  tenn  poundes.  And  to  my 
sonne  William  thirty  poundes.  And  to  my  sonne  Roberte  forty  shillinges.  And  to  my  daughter  Mary 
the  wife  of  Roberte  Webster  I  giue  live  markes.  And  to  Catherine  wife  to  William  Habell  five 
markes.  To  Jeremy  Wibeard  my  sonne  one  hundred  markes  when  he  shall  come  to  the  full 
age  of  twenty  and  six  yeares,  said  Jeremy  to  enter  into  bond  not  to  take  to  wife  one  Margaret 
Hammond  the  daughter  of  Mathewe  Hamond  and  his  cozen  germaine.  To  Edward  Wibeard  my 
youngest  sonne  fiftie  poundes  at  his  ago  of  twenty  and  sixe  yeares.  Unto  Jeremy  my  greate 
guilte  salte  after  the  decease  of  Margaret  my  wiefe.  To  my  daughter  Joane  Somibaneke  six 
angelles.  To  Margaret  Hamond  my  kinswoman  and  servaunte  twenty  shillinges.  To  old  Mary 
my  maide  twenty  shillinges.  The  rest  of  my  goodes,  my  landes  Ac.  I  giue  to  Margaret  my  wife 
whome  I  doe  name  executrix.  And  I  doe  appoynte  Charles  Somibaneke  Doctor  of  Diuinity  my 
sonne  in  lawe  overseer.  Probatum  nono  die  Maij  1610  juramento  Margarete  Wibeard  relicte. 

P.C.C.  47  Wingfield. 


Mill  of  (EMtmrb  ^antmonft,  1626. 

Edward  Hamond  of  the  parish  of  Alhallowes  in  ye  Wall,  London,  gentleman,  5  Dec.  1626. 
To  be  buried  in  the  church  or  churchyard.  Vnto  my  most  kind  loving  and  constant  wife  Mary 
Hamond  the  lease  of  my  howse  in  the  parish  of  Alhallowes  in  ye  Wall  for  the  tearme  of  yeares  yet 
to  come.  My  daughters  Elizabeth  Coot  widdowe  and  Anne  Bower.  Hawses  and  gardens  wch  I  hold 
in  the  pish  of  St.  Buttolphe  wthout  Algate,  London,  for  the  tearme  of  yeares  yet  to  come.  To  my 
sonne  George  Hamond  the  sume  of  tenn  poundes  yearlie  ;  he  to  live  in  the  howse  with  my  wife 
in  such  manner  as  hee  now  doth ;  also  ffiftie  poundes.  To  Marie  my  wife  the  lease  of  howse  in 
Aldersgate  Strete  for  the  yeares  yet  to  come.  Remainder  of  leases  Ac.,  to  George  Hammond  my 
sonne.  To  my  daughter  Anne  Bowres  now  wife  of  George  Bowres  my  copper  Andyrons  &c.  Vnto 
my  loving  sister  Margaret  Wibert  widdowe  forty  shillinges  to  buy  her  a  ringe.  To  my  loving 
cosens  William  Hamond  and  Edmond  Hamond  sonnes  of  my  brother  William  Hamond  deceased. 
Residue  to  Mary  my  wife  whome  I  ordain  executrix  of  this  my  will.  My  said  two  cosens  and  my 
friend  William  Allen  Esq.  to  be  supervisors.  Admco  17  Junij  1620  comissa  fuit  Georgio  Hamond 
iilio,  Maria  Hamond  relicta  jam  demortua  Ac.  Arch.  London,  Wills  1627 — 1633-4. 


254 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


lammonb  of  53urp  §s>t.  Ctununtis. 


.  .  .  Hammond  of 


JohnHammond,LL.D.,:=j" 
a  Master  in  Chancery, 
1575  ;  Will,  P.C.C.  62 
Drury,  21  Dec.  32 
Eliz.,  proved  12  Oct. 
1590.  Lands  in  Chris- 
hall,  &c.,  co.  Essex; 
children  then  under 
age.  Life  (unreliable)  in 
Cooper’s  A  theme  Can- 
tabrigiensisit;  Dictionary 
of  National  Biography. 


■  Agnes,  executrix= 
to  John  Ham¬ 
mond,  1590  ; 
re-married  to 
Arthur  Jenney, 
Esq.,  as  his  2d 
wife.  Jenney  r, 
Wright ,  Eliz.  B. 
&  A.  ;  sister, 
perhaps,  of  Alex. 
Nowell,  Dean  of 
St.  Paul’s. 


: Arthur  Jenney  of; 
Knoddishall,  co. 
Suffolk,  Esq.,  set.  65 
in  1601,  Exchequer 
Com  mins  ion,  Suffolk. 
Will„  P.C.C.  34 
Hayes,  10  March 
1604  ;  married 
Agnes  Hammond, 
widow,  13  Oct. 

1 595,  Jenney  c. 
Wright,  Eliz.  B. 


^Elizabeth.  1st 
wife,  dau.  of 
George  Jerne- 
gan  of  Somer- 
leyton,  co.  Sufi., 
Esq.,  and  graud- 
dau.  of  Sir  John 
Jernegan  ;  mar. 
settlement  22 
Feb.,  2  and  3, 
P.  and  M. 


Henry  Ham¬ 
mond,  young¬ 
est  son, named 
inSpecialCom- 
mission,  Ex¬ 
chequer^ 43Eliz 
2965, together 
with  his  three 
sisters. 


L 


- ! — 1 - r 

Johan,  Marie  and 
Judith,  named  in 
Special  Commission , 
43Eliz. ;  oneof  them 
seems  to  have  mar¬ 
ried  Chas.  Reeve  of 
the  University  of 
Cambridge  and  to 
have  had  issue,  Wm. 
Reeve  of  Harlow, 
co.Essex.  Visitation 
of  London,  163 fy. 


William  Hammond,  son 
and  heir, born  circa  1575; 
of  Alby  als.  Aldeby.  co. 
Norfolk,  Gent.,  42  Eliz., 
Exchequer  Bill,  Nnrff. 
296  ;  Administrator  of 
the  goods  of  Thomas 
Hammond,  his  uncle  ; 
died  a  soldier  beyond  the 
seas  circa  1622.  I/amnnd 
e.  Glover,  Jas.  I,  B  &  A, 
H.  3,  70. 


= Ursula,  dau.  of 
Arthur  Jenney, 
Esq.  ;  mar.  lie. 
Bp.  of  London, 
3  July  1596  ; 
described  1604 
as  Ursula  Ham¬ 
mond  in  her 
father’s  will. 


Thomas  Hammond  of  Bury= 
St.  Edmunds,  LL.B.  Under 
Collector  of  Tithes  and  Sub¬ 
sidies  to  his  kinsman  William 
Redman,  Bishop  of  Norwich. 
He  made  Will  nuncupative, 
P.C.C.  28  Woodhall.  1 1  March 
1599  ;  Admon.  8  Sept  1601 
to  William  Hammond  his 
nephew.  Admon.  3  May  1613 
to  Thomas  Hammond  his  son. 
Had  lands  and  leases  in  Nor¬ 
folk,  Essex  and  Lincolnshire, 
and  in  Moulton  and  Bury  St. 
Edmunds,  co.  Suffolk  ;  ob.  11 
March  1599,  buried  at  Ash  by 
Campsey  14  March  following. 


pAnne,  da.  of  Edward 
|  Ward  of  Mendham, 

I  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  by 
j  Amy,  da  of  Robert 
J  Fortlie  of  Butley  Ab- 
|  bey  ;  sister  to  Eliza- 
i  beth,  wife  of  William 
I  Glover  of  Ash,  co.  Suf- 
i  folk,  Gent.,  and  Mary, 
I  wife  of  William  Rant, 
I  M.D.  From  her  bro¬ 
ther,  Sir  Wm.  Ward, 
descend  the  Wards, 
Earls  Dudley.  Her 
father’s  will  is  dated 
1632.  She  was  buried 
at  Ash  19  July  1599. 


Thomas  Hammond,  son  and  heir,  only  child,  aged  7  in 
1599  ;  administered  his  father’s  estate  3  May  1613  ; 
of  Gray’s  Inn,  co.  Middlesex,  Gent.,  1621  and  1622, 
Bamond  c.  Glover,  Jas.  I.  B  and  A,  H.  21,  41  and 
Hamond  c.  Glover,  Jas.  I,  B  and  A,  H.  3,  70.  I 'escribed 
as  Esquire  in  his  grandfather  Ward’s  will  17  Oct.  1632. 
Entered  the  University  of  Cambridge,  but  left  ap¬ 
parently  without  taking  degree. 


Margaret,  wife  of 
Richd.  Wyberd 
of  High  Onger, 
co  Essex, Gent., 
who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  47  Wing¬ 
field,  17  Sept. 
1607.  Her  Will, 
P.C.C.  120  Sad¬ 
ler,  is  dated  6 
June  1635.  See 
Wiberd  peds.  in 
London  Visita¬ 
tion,  1634. 


Henry  Hammond  of; 
Bury  St.  Edmunds, 
Clothier  ;  described 
in  Special  Comm  ission , 
Exchequer,  2964,  42 
Eliz.,  as  brother  to 
Thomas  Hammond 
of  Bury  ;  born  circa 
1545  ;  aged  55  in 
1600;  Will,  P.C.C. 
40  Montague,  25  May 
1600,  names  sister 
Mrs.  Margaret  Wy- 
bard. 


Margery  .  .  . 
She  made 
Will.  Arch. 
Sudb.,  “  Le¬ 
gate.”  fo.  384, 
22  May  1617, 
proved  20  Feb. 
following. 


William  Hammond, 
Gent.,  Citizen  of 
London,  42  Eliz ,  a 
party  to  the  Decree, 
P.C.C.  28  Woodhall, 
1 599,  confirming  the 
validity  of  his  brother 
Thomas  Hammond’s 
will  ;  dead  1626, 
leaving  sous,  Wm. 
Hammond  and  Ed¬ 
mond  Hammond. 
Citizens  of  London, 
1635. 


Matthew  Hammond 
of  Bury  St.  Ed 
rounds,  named  1607 
in  the  will  of  Richard 
Wybard,  but  perhaps 
then  dead :  named 
also  in  the  M.I.  of 
Henry  Groom  of 
Ufford,  his  son-in- 
law,  1634.  Hurl. 
MS. 4969.  See  Ham¬ 
mond  of  Ufford. 


Edward  Hammond  of  All  Hal¬ 
lows  on  the  Wall,  London.  Gent., 
co-purchaser  with  Thomas  Ham¬ 
mond,  his  brother,  of  St.  Paul’s 
Hospital,  Canterbury.  Close  Roll, 
39  Eliz.  Will,  Arch.  London, 
5  Dec.  1626,  proved  17  June 
1 630  ;  names  Mary,  his  wife,  who 
died  before  probate  ;  Margaret 
Wybard,  widow,  his  sister,  Wil¬ 
liam  Hammond  and  Edmond 
Hammond,  sons  of  late  brother, 
William  Hammond,  &c.,  &c. 


Joane  Wiberd,  one  of  the 
daus  ,  mar.  Charles  Sonny- 
bank,  D.D.,  Canon  of 
Windsor,  who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  163  Lee.  9  Aug. 
1636;  prob.  30  Nov.  1638. 
See  Hamond  c.  Sonny- 
bank,  tbc  ,  Exchequer 
Bill,  F.liz.,  Norff.,  296. 
Humfrey  Wellinge,  Gent , 
her  first  husband. 


John  Ham¬ 
mond,  eld¬ 
est  son, 
named  with 
his  wife  and 
five  child¬ 
ren  1617  in 
his  mother’s 
will. 


Mary,  sister  of 
John  Scott  of 
Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds.  Gent, 
who  made  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
1633,namingher 
and  five  of  her 
children ;  living 
1647. 


Mary,  wife  of 
John  Brydon, 
1600andl6l7, 
son  of  Am¬ 
brose  Brydon 
of  Bury,  and 
brother  of 
Mary  Bridon, 
who  mar.  Sir 
James  Ware. 
See  page  99. 


William  Ham¬ 
mond,  a  schol- 
lar,  going  to 
Cambridge, 
1600. 

Thomas,  dead 
in  1617,  leav¬ 
ing  a  widow, 
Amy  Ham¬ 
mond. 


“I  I  I  I  1 
Edward, 
Henry, 
Agnes, 
Susan  & 
Margaret 
all  living 
1617. 


Elizabeth,  ux. 
.  .  .  Coot,  a 
widow.  1626. 

Agnes,  wife  of 
George  Rower 
who  entered 
pedigree  in 
the  London 
Visitation, 
1634. 


George  Hammond. 
Thos.  Hammond,  his 
uncle,  had  lease  in 
Moulton,  co.  Suff..  of 
Trinity  Hall,  Camb.  for 
the  lives  of  Anne,  his 
wife,  Thomas,  his  son. 
and  tills  George  Ham¬ 
mond,  his  nephew. 
Exch  eq  n  er  Depeo  ns. , 
Eliz  ,  Norff.,  3029. 


John  Hammond,  eldest 
son,  1617  and  1633. 


Mary,  wife  of  William 
Sampson,  1633. 


Henry,  1617  :  dead 
probably  1633. 


RapheHammond, 
1617  and  1633. 


William  Hammond 
1617  and  1633. 


- 1 


Oliver  Hammond,  1633, of 
Bungay,  co.  Suff.,  1647. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff. 


This  pedigree  is  founded,  for  the  most  part,  upon  the  very  numerous  Exchequer  Bills  and  Depositions  in  the  Public 
Record  Office  relating  to  the  family  temp.  Queen  Elizabeth. 


ammo  HU  of  Cllingfjam. 


Mill  of  Joint  JJammoni*,  1541. 

The  xxvi  daie  of  Aprell  in  the  xxxiij  yere  of  or  souering  lord  King  Henry  the  eight  I 

John  Hamonde  of  Ubbeston  in  the  countie  of  Suff,  remembring  my  self  to  be  in  this  tnsitorie 

world,  but  as  a  flower  this  daie  floryshing  &  the  next  morovve  withered  and  gone,  order  &  dyspose 
such  goods  as  almighty  god  hathe  lent  me  according  to  my  in  ward  myud  aftecion  &  entent.  My 
body  to  be  buried  in  the  churche  or  churche  yard  of  Vbbeston,  to  the  wiche  churche  I  bequeth 
xxs  to  the  repacons  of  the  windowe  in  the  stepell  tlier.  I  gyfe  to  Jhoh  Hamond  my  eldest  sohe 
all  my  londs  &  tenementes  in  Walpole  in  Suff.  To  my  sone  Robert  my  tenement  purchesid  of 
Edmnd  Coleman  when  he  shall  come  vnto  the  age  of  xxi  yeres.  I  gyffe  to  my  son  Xpofir  oon 
mease  edyfyyd  callyd  Stubbyng  lyeng  in  Vbbeston  and  all  lands  belongyng  when  he  shall  accomplyshe 
the  full  aege  of  xxi  yeres.  To  Katerin  my  wyff  my  leasse  vnder  the  covent  seall  of  the  liowse 
of  seiut  edis  during  all  her  nat avail  lyff;  after  her  decease  my  seid  son  Jhoti  Hamond  shall  haue 
the  leasse.  Jane  Carie  hath  bequethed  to  my  son  Jhon  implements  and  iouells.  Eueryon  of  my 
dowghtors  shall  haue  x  markes  when  they  shalbe  maried.  Seid  wyff  shall  lcepe  my  son  Xpofer  to 
the  schole  vnto  he  shalbe  of  the  age  of  xiij  yeres.  Myne  executors  I  ordein  &  make  my  master 
Anthony  Henynghm  csquier  &  Jhon  Haimod  my  son.  If  my  wyff  do  cleym  dowry  or  make  trobell 

or  mary  her  self  to  any  man  \vt  ow*  leue  consent  &  assent  of  my  seid  Mr  Master  Anthony 

Hevenyghfh  then  such  bequestes  as  I  have  gyuen  her  to  be  vtterly  voyd.  Probatum  quarto  die 
Maij  1541  comissa  administratio  bonorum  executoribus.  Cur.  Ep.  Norwich. 


Mill  of  Joljn  Jjaminonii  of  (Ellutgljam,  1 632. 

John  Hamond  of  Ellingliam  in  the  countie  of  Norff:  gent.  7  July  1G32.  To  Richard  Hamond 

my  second  sonne  my  manors  Ac.  in  Herringfleet  and  other  townes  in  Suffolk  late  purchased  of  John 

Vfflet  th’elder  and  John  Vfflet  the  youger,  at  his  age  of  two  and  twenty  yeares  ;  he  to  pay  Vrsley 
my  wife  the  summe  of  sixty  poundes  yearely  during  her  life.  To  Thomas  Hamond  my  third  sonne 
and  to  his  heires  for  ever,  my  messuages  in  Tannington  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolk  when  he  cometh 
to  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  To  Francis  Hamond,  my  fourth  sonne,  my  messuages  in 
Great  Yarmouth  when  twenty  one.  To  Anthony  Hammond  my  ffifth  sonne,  messuages  and  lands  in 
Walpoole  iu  the  countie  of  Suffolk  at  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  To  Marie  Hamond  my 
eldest  daughter  the  summe  of  six  hundred  pounds,  to  be  paid  her  at  her  age  of  two  and  twenty 
yeares,  or  day  of  marriage.  To  Katherine  Hamond,  my  second  daughter,  five  hundred  pounds  ;  and 
to  Ursley  Hammond  my  third  daughter  five  hundred  pounds,  to  be  paid  them  respectively  at  their 

dayes  of  marriage  or  ages  of  two  and  twenty  yeares.  My  mansion  house  and  lands  in  !•  llingham 

to  Ursley  my  wife  for  life,  in  lieu  of  dower  and  thirds.  To  John  Hamond  my  eldest  sonne  said 


256 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


lands  &c.  in  Ellingham  on  decease  of  my  wife.  To  him  my  Manor  of  Newells  in  Ellingham  and 
divers  lands  in  Suffolk  and  in  Norwich  when  he  attaineth  his  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  To 
Francis  Cuddon  my  brother  in  law.  Ursley  my  wife  to  be  sole  executrix.  Probat  26  Sept.  1632 
juramento  Ursulte  Hamond  relicte  et  executricis.  P.C.C.  93  Audley. 

We  learn  from  Suckling’s  “Suffolk,”  vol.  II,  pp.  13-14,  that  John  Uftiet,  sen.,  and  John 
Ufflet,  jun.,  conveyed  the  Manor  of  Titsall  in  Herringfleet  to  John  Hammond,  29  Jan.  1631.  It 
appears  from  his  Inq.  post  mortem,  8  Chas.,  that  the  latter  died  20  July  1632.  On  the  24th  March 
1650,  Richard  Hammond  of  Ditchingham,  co.  Norfolk,  Gent.,  sold  this  manor  to  Thomas  Meadow, 
Alderman  of  Great  Yarmouth. 


Still  of  Inbtt  L#ammonlr  of  (Bllmgljfun,  1657, 

John  Hamond  of  Ellingham  in  the  County  of  Norff:  Esquire,  23  March  1657.  To  John 

Hamond  my  sonne,  my  messuages,  lands,  tenements,  meadows,  Ac.  in  Mettingham  in  the  county  of 

Suffolk,  to  him  and  to  his  heirs  for  ever.  To  William  Hamond  my  sonne,  the  suihe  of  six  hundred 
pounds  to  be  paid  him  by  Thomas  Hamond  my  sonne,  at  his  age  of  two  and  twenty  yeares :  in 
default  of  such  payment  the  said  William,  after  he  is  four  and  twenty  yeares  of  age,  to  sell 
messuages  &c.  in  Ellingham,  in  the  tenure  of  Marshall  Smith  and  Richard  Coddenharn,  for  the  best 
price  and  to  pay  himself.  To  Katherine  my  daughter  five  hundred  pounds  when  one  and  twenty 
years  of  age  and  the  same  to  Elizabeth  my  daughter.  All  my  other  lands,  messuages  &c.  in 
Suffolk  or  Norfolk  to  my  said  sonne  Thomas  Hamond.  Rest  of  my  goods  to  my  brother  in  law 
Thomas  Le  Gros  Esq.  and  my  beloved  uncle  Francis  Cuddon  of  Shankfield  in  the  county  of  Suffolk, 
gent.,  whom  I  make  executors:  they  to  have  the  guardianship  of  the  said  Thomas  if  I  die' before 

he  comes  to  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  years.  Whereas  my  dearely  beloved  brother  Thomas  Le 

Gros  Esq.  have  sen]  all  tymes  expressed  ho  had  convayance  to  settle  considerable  estate  in  Manors 
&c.  vpon  him  the  said  Thomas  my  sonne,  if  they  amount  to  two  hundred  pounds  per  annum  Thomas 
shall  pay  to  John  Hammond  his  brother  an  annuity  of  twenty  pounds  per  annum  and  shall  give  my 
lands  in  Shimpling  and  thirteen  pounds  thirteen  shillings  and  threepence  to  William  my  sonne,  who 
shall  also  enter  upon  my  lands  in  Hemnall  and  Shelton  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  :  also  then  I 
increase  my  daughters  porcions  three  hundred  pound  a  peece.  To  my  said  brother  and  uncle  all 
my  messuages  Arc.  in  Beckles  in  Suffolk  to  sell  for  the  raising  of  daughters  porcions  Ac.  they  to 
match  with  the  goodwill  and  well  likeing  of  my  welbeloved  wife  and  sonne  Thomas.  Seal  of 
Arms: — three  birds  on  a  chevron.  Probatum  8  April  1661,  Admon,  bonoru  comissa  Francesco  Cuddon 
gen.  Reservata  potato  consimilem  Adcoem  comittend  Tho.  Le  Gros  Ar.  alteri  executor. 

“  Wills  for  Several  Years,”  Norwich  Consistory,  No.  88, 


Mill  of  Ursula  l&amontr,  1877. 

Ursula  Hammond^  of  Bungay  in  the  county  of  Suffolke,  singlewoman,  16  April  1677.  To  be 
buried  in  the  parish  church  of  Ellingham  neare  Bungay  in  Norfolke.  Vnto  my  sister  Mns  Mary 
Marshall  wid  the  suhie  of  fifty  pounds  for  life,  and  after  her  decease,  to  her  two  daughters 
Mary  and  Margarett  Marshall.  Vnto  my  sister  Mres  Katherine  Johnson  wid  thirty  pounds.  Vnto 
my  neece  Elizabeth  Hamond,  daughter  of  my  brother  Mr  Richard  Hamond  forty  pounds.  Vnto  my 
nephew  Mr  Thomas  Hamond,  the  brother  of  aforesaid  neece  fforty  pounds.  My  nephew  Mr  John 
Hamond  of  Ellingham  to  be  sole  executor.  Probatum  25  Aug.  1677. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  Wills,  1677,  No.  60. 


HAMMOND  OF  ELLINGHAM. 


257 


fjammonti  of  Cllmgfjam. 


Katherine, living — John  Hammon  of  Vpson  in  com.  Suff.  Of  Ubbestou  in  Suffolk.  VfiW  ^pMorgerett,  d. 


34  H.  8,  1541.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw  ,  26  April.  34  H.  8,  proved  4  May  1541.  Leaves  copy 
lands  in  Walpole,  co.  Suffolk,  to  John  Hammond,  his  son. 


of  Cary. 


Robert  John  Hammon  of  Ellingham  iuxla  Bungey.=\ 
Ham-  Bought  the  manors  of  Ubbeston,  Wal- 

mond,  pole,  Cookley,  &c.,  co.  Suff.,  by  Fine, 

under  Mich.,  38  H.  8.  Lord  of  the  Manors  of 
age,  Nevills  in  Ellingham  and  of  Dunston,  co. 

1541.  Norff.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw..  6  Jan.,  36 
Eliz.  ;  prob.  11  Feb.  1588.  M.I.  in 
Ellingham  Church. 


■June,  d.  of  John  Apleyard  of  Dunston,  co.  N orf  oik, =j=  John  Methwold  of 


Esq.  Avis  Appleyard,  her  mother,  made  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  10  Jail.  1576.  She  made  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Forw.,  17  March  1603,  as  Jane  Hammond  of 
Ellingham,  widow ;  prob.  5  April  1604  ;  then 
weak  and  aged.  Mentions  her  son,  Thomas 
Methould  of  Langford. 


South  Pickenham, 
co.  Norff.,  1st  husb. 
Will,  15  Oct.,  1  E. 
6,  proved  at  Nor¬ 
wich  1  Nov.  1552. 
Inq.  p.m.  2  E.  6. 


- 1 

Christo¬ 
pher  Ham¬ 
mond,  not 
yet  set.  13, 
1541. 


k 


Richard  Hammon  of  Ellingham,  co. 
Norff.,  gent.  ;  Inq.  p.m.  2  Car.  ; 
Manor  of  Nevells,  &c.,  in  Ellingham. 
Lands  in  Herringfleet,  Beccles,  Bun¬ 
gay,  &e.,  co.  Suffolk.  Ob.  s.p.  6 
Aug.  2  Car.  Adm.  P.C.C.  28  Feb. 
1632,  to  Ursula  Hammond,  w°. 


John  Hammon  of  Ellingham  in=f=  Vrsula,  d.  of  I Vrn.  Cuddon  of  Shad- 


com,  Norff.,  Gent.,  brother  &  heii 
to  Richard,  2  Car.  and  then  pet. 
60  ;  Inq.  p  m.  8  Car.  ;  Ob.  20 
July  1632.  Will,  P.C.C.  93  Aud- 
ley,  7  July  1632.  Manors.  &c., 
in  Herringfleet,  &c.,  co  Suffolk. 


Willm  Hammon. 
Harl.  MSS,  1449 
and  1552.  Son 
and  heir  ;  Ob.  s.p. 

Dorathey.  Harl. 
MSS.  1449  and 
1552. 


Thomas  Ham¬ 
mond,  3d  son, 
1632,  to  whom 
his  father  de¬ 
vised  lands  in 
Tannington,  co. 
Suffolk. 


Anthony  Hammond,  5th 
and  youngest  son,  1632, 
to  whom  his  father  left  his 
lands  in  Walpole,  co.  Suff. 
He  ob.  s  p.  1633  ;  copy 
lands  to  Francis  H.,  his 
brother.  Court  Rolls  of 
Fib  ton. 


dinyfeild  in  com.  Suff.,  Esq.,  who 
made  Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  27  July 
1633,da.and  coh.  byMary  his  lstwife, 
da.  and  coh.  of  Geo.  Harvey  of  Oulton; 
living  1647  ;  final  administratrix 
of  Richard  Hammond,  1632. 


Mary,  wife  of  Richard 
Plume  of  Great  Yeld- 
ham,  co.  Essex,  whose 
brothers’  descendants 
intermarried  with  the 
Hammonds  of  Hawke- 
don. 


Mary,  eldest  da. 
not  yet  14  in 
1632  ;  was  Mrs. 
Mary  Marshall, 
widow,  in  1677  ; 
had  then  two 
daus.  Mary  and 
Margaret  M  ar- 
shall . 


Katherine,  2d  da., 
wife  of  James 
Johnson  of  Elliug- 
ham,  co.  Norff , 
clerk,  diamond  c. 
Johnson,  Chas.  I, 
B  and  A.  A  widow 
1677. 


Ursula  Hammond,  3d  da., 
of  Bungay,  co.  Suffolk, 
spinster,  when  she  made 
M  ill.  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  16 
April  1677,  proved  25 
Aug  same  year :  desiring 
to  be  buried  in  Ellingham 
Church. 


Richard  Hammond,  2d= 
son,  1632  ;  of  Ditching- 
ham,  co.  Norfolk,  Gent. 
Sold  the  Herringfleet 
Manors,  1650,  toThos.  Mea¬ 
dow  of  Great  Yarmouth. 
Suckling,  II,  13,  14. 


1670,  when  Tho¬ 
mas  Hammond, 


John  Hammond  of  Ellingham, =j=Elizabeth,  living 
Esq.,  son  and  heir,  aged  18, 

Feb.  14  1631.  Will,  Cur. 

Ep.  Norw.,  23  March  1657, 
proved  8  April  1661  ;  lands  in 
Beccles,  Mettingham,  &c.,  co. 

Suffolk. 


Francis  Hammond  of  Kir-=f=  Anne,  da.  of 


Thomas  Hammond,  devisee  of 
his  aunt, Ursula  Hammond,  1677. 


Elizabeth  Hammond,  devisee  of 
her  aunt,  UrsulaHammond,lG77. 


her  son. 
will. 


made  his 


by  Redon  in  Com.  Norff.,  yt., 
4  sonne,  A0  1664  ;  succeeded 
to  his  brother  Anthony’s 
copyholds  in  Sibton  and 
Walpole,  co.  Suffolk,  1633. 
Visitation  of  Norfolk,  1664- 


Math:  Stephens 
of  ..  .  So  in 
the  Norfolk 
Visitation  of 
1664. 


I 


John,  sonne  ,5  heire, 
(jet.  12,  Ann  1664- 


2.  Francis. 


3.  Charles. 


- 1 

Elk. 


ThomasHammond  of  Elling¬ 
ham,  co.  Norff.,  Gent.,  son 
and  heir.  Will,  P.C.C.  117 
Hale,  8  July  1670,  proved 
7  Nov.  1677  ;  Lands  in 
Ilketshall  and  South  Elm- 
ham.  co  Suffolk,  to  John 
Hammond,  his  brother. 
Ob.  s.p. 


John  Hammond,  second= 
son,  of  Ellingham,  1686, 
Gent.  Hamond  c.  Ijany. 
Aet.  18  in  1659,  when  he 
entered  Caius  Coll.  Camb. 
Devisee,  1677,  of  Ursula 
Hammond,  his  aunt  ; 
heir,  1677,  to  Thomas 
Hammond,  his  brother. 


^Elizabeth,  dau.  of 
Thomas  Rede,  devi¬ 
see,  1676,  of  Thomas 
Edgar  of  Glemham, 
co.  Suff.,  Gent. 
Hamond  c.  Lany, 
Mitford  V.  Hamond 
c.  Git  ling,  Whitting¬ 
ton  II,  &c. 


William  Ham¬ 
mond,  to  whom 
his  father  de¬ 
vised  his  lands 
in  Shimpling, 
Hempnall  and 
Shelton  in  1657, 


Katherine 
Hammond, 
living  1657. 


Elizabeth  Hammond, 
living  1657  ;  devisee 
of  Thomas  Ham¬ 
mond,  her  brother, 
1670,  and  of  Ursula 
Hammond,  her  aunt, 
1677. 


The  Hammonds  of  Ellingham  by  Bungay,  although  Norfolk  gentry,  descended  from  Suffolk,  resided  near  the  Suffolk  border) 
and  held  Suffolk  Manors.  Their  pedigree  from  the  Norfolk  Visitations  of  1613  (Harl.  MS.  1449  and  1552)  and  1664  (College  of 
Arms)  is  printed  in  italics.  Their  Arms  (Harl.  MS.  1449  and  Bysshe’s  Norfolk  Visitatiou,  1664)  were  Argent,  on  a  chevron,  Sable 
three  martlets  of  the  field.  Crest : — On  a  wreath  Or  and  Gules,  out  of  a  ducal  coronet  of  the  first,  an  elephant’s  head  Argent, 

tusked  and  eared  Or. 

2  K 


^ammonfi  of  Ipatofcetion. 


Ji>a It  of  Crmnur's  Jltanor,  1540. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Regis  apud  Westni  in  crastino  Aiar  anno  reguojj 
Henrici  octaui  dei  gra  Angt  &  ffranc  Regis  Ac.  tricesirno  scdo  coram  Jofie  Baldwyn,  WiRo  Shelley, 
Tkoma  Willugliby  &  Cristofei’o  Jenney  Justic  A  alijs  dni  Regis  fidelil>5  tunc  ibi  jtaentibj.  Inf 
Thomam  Heigham  quer  et  Johem  Cressener  Armi^um  A  Elizabeth  vxleni  eius  deforc  de  MaSio  de 
Cresseners  cum  ptin  ac  de  quatuor  messuagijs  ducentis  acris  tre  viginti  acris  prati  centum  acris 
pasture  viginti  acris  bosci  &  viginti  solidatis  redditus  cum  ptin  in  Hawkedon,  Stansfeld,  Somerton, 
Herthurst,  Rede  &  Depden  vnde  plitm  conuencois  sum  fuit  inf  eos  in  eadem  cur  Sciit  qct  pdei 
Johes  A  Elizabeth  recogh  fldca  manlum  &  ten  cum  ptin  esso  ins  ipius  Thome  vt  ilia  que  idem 
Thomas  liet  de  dono  jidcor^  Job  is  &  Elizabeth  et  ilia  remiserunt  &  quictumclam  de  ipi§  .1  ohe  & 
Elizabeth  A  hered  suis  ]3dco  Thome  A  hered  suis  imppm.  Et  p?ei  ijdem  Johes  A  Elizabeth 
concesserunt  p  se  &  hered  ipius  Elizabeth  qd  ipi  Warant  pdeo  Thome  A  hered  suis  p’dca  manlum 
A  ten  cum  ptin  contra  omes  hoies  imppm.  Et  p  luxe  recogh  remissione  quietaclam  Warant  fine  A 
concordia  idem  Thomas  dedit  [Mcis  Johi  A  Elizabeth  ducentas  libras  sterlingor^.  Suff. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  Mich.,  32  H.  8. 

Thomas  Heigham  sold  lands  in  Hawkedon,  Stansfield,  Somerton  and  Brockley  to  John 
Andrews  in  the  first  year  of  Edward  the  Sixth.  Fine,  Mich.  1,  E.  0.  In  the  second  year 
of  Edward  the  Sixth,  John  Cawston  and  John  Andrews  held  the  Manor  of  Cresseners  in 
Hawkedon  of  the  Honour  of  Clare  by  the  service  of  half  a  Knight’s  fee.  Rental  of  the  Honour 
of  Clare  in  the  Dutchy  Court  of  Lancaster ,  quoted  by  Davy.  In  the  third  year  of  Queen  Elizabeth, 
John  Cawston  assured  Cresseners  to  Anne  Hammond,  his  daughter,  and  Thomas  Hammond,  her 
husband.  His  will,  Arch.  Sndb.,  dated  8  Feb.  1560,  was  proved  in  1564. 


Will  of  Arnic  Hamilton lt,  1611. 

I,  Anne  Hamoud  theldxr  of  Hawkdon  in  the  countie  of  Suffolk,  widdow,  daughter  of  John 

Cawson  late  of  Hawkdon  deceased,  this  28th  day  of  March  1611  bequeathe  to  Nicholas  Hamond 

my  sonne  and  Mary  Hamond  my  daughter  two  thirds  of  my  Manor  called  Crossners  with  the 

lands  tenements  Ac.  in  Stansfield  Hawkdon  and  Reed  which  late  belonged  to  John  Cawson  my 

father  and  which  he  assured  to  me  and  Thomas  Hammond  my  late  husband  by  deed  dated 


HAMMOND  OF  HAWKEDON. 


259 


6  Feb.  in  the  tliirde  yeare  of  Quecne  Elizabeth.  To  Thomas  Hamond  eldest  sonne  of  Thomas 
Hamond  my  eldest  sonne  the  remaining  third  part  of  these  lands.  To  Robert  Hamond  and  John 
Hamond  the  younger  sonnes  of  said  Thomas  Hamond  my  sonne.  To  George  Hamond  my  sonne 
and  Robert  Hamond  my  sonne.  To  Thomas  Coppen,  Mary  Coppen,  Bridget  Coppen  and  Alice 
Coppen  my  grandchildren.  To  Thomas  Hamond  sonne  of  Phillipp  Hamond  my  sonne.  To  Phillipp 
Robert  and  Elizabeth  other  children  of  Phillipp  my  sonne.  To  Ambrose  Hamond  my  sonne.  The 
said  Nicholas  Hamond  my  sonne  and  Mary  Hamond  my  daughter  to  be  executors.  Probation 
23  Nov.  1612  Nicbolai  Hamond  alter  exec  Maria  Hamond  jam  dcmortua. 

Arch.  Sudb.,  Liber  Everston,  fo.  230. 


Mill  nf  Sljmnas  pammaitfr,  1661. 

Thomas  Hamond  of  Cresners  in  Hawkedon,  gentleman,  16  Feb.  1661.  My  Mannor  of 
Cresseners  to  John  Hamond  my  sonne,  he  to  take  advice  of  my  brother  William  Hall  of  Risbie 
in  the  countie  of  Suffolk  and  of  my  sonne  in  law  Thomas  Worlich  and  of  my  sonne  Walter 
Hamond  and  to  pay  the  portions  to  be  raised  for  my  other  children.  To  my  said  sonne  John 
Hamond  the  sume  of  thirtie  poundes  yearelie  vutil  he  attaine  the  age  of  forty  yeares.  To  Alice 
the  daughter  of  my  daughter  Elizabeth  late  deceased  the  sume  of  twenty  shillinges  yearlie  until 
she  attain  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares,  then  tenn  pounds  yearlie  for  life.  My  daughter 
Anne  late  the  wife  of  Christopher  Scott  clerk  to  have  no  part.  My  cousens  Thomas  Hamond, 
clothier,  and  Phillip  Hamond.  If  John  my  sonne  die  without  issue  said  Mannor  to  Walter  Hamond 
my  sonne.  My  bookes  of  songes  for  four,  five  or  six  voices  &c.  &c  to  John  Hammond  my 
sonne,  whome  I  appointe  sole  executor.  Probat  29  Oct.  1662. 

Arch.  Subd.,  “  Rex  Redux,”  fo.  383b. 


Mill  of  Obamas  Uantmmtfr,  1070. 

Thomas  Hamond  of  Hawkedon  in  the  countie  of  Suffolk,  clothier,  6  March  1670.  My 
close  in  Cavendish  conteyning  tenn  acres,  sometimes  the  land  of  Ambrose  Brewster  deceased,  I 
devise  vnto  Edmond  Plume  the  elder  of  Hawkedon,  Gent,  Edmund  Plume  and  Robert  Plume  sonnes 
of  said  Edmund  the  elder,  Phillip  Hamond  of  Boxted  sonn  of  Phillip  Hamond  of  Hawkedon, 
John  Hamond  sonn  of  Thomas  Hamond  late  of  Cresners  in  Hawkedon,  John  Hamond  the  elder  A 
Mathew  Abott  the  yonger  of  Hawkdon  and  to  their  lieires  for  ever,  vpon  this  speciall  confidence, 
that  they  permitt  the  churchwardens  &  overseers  of  Hawkedon  to  take  all  the  rents  A  profitts 
to  be  distributed  amongst  the  poore  inhabitants  betweene  the  first  day  of  Nouember  and  the  ffirst 
day  of  Decr  yearely  foreuer.  If  John  Hunt  of  Wickhambrook  do  pay  my  executors  ffyfteene 
pownds,  then  he  shall  haue  my  land  in  Wickhambrooke  which  he  hath  assured  me.  The  two 
daughters  of  said  John  Hunt  which  he  had  by  his  wife  that  was  daughter  to  my  cosen  Ambrose 
Hamond  deceased.  Executors  shall  sell  my  customary  lands  in  Pentlow  in  Essex.  Executors  to 
sell  all  my  messuages  and  lands  in  Glemsford.  To  Elizabeth  and  Mary  Houghton  my  two  houshold 
servants  my  messuages  Ac.  in  Hawkedon  for  three  years,  then  to  Mary  Everard  one  of  the  daughters 
of  Richard  Everard  late  of  Hawkedon  Gent  and  to  her  heirs  for  ever.  To  Phillip  Hamond  of 


260 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Boxted  in  Suffolk  sonne  of  Phillip  Hamond  of  Hawkedon  my  kinsman  my  grove  and  a  messuage 
called  the  Moate  in  Boxted,  my  barne  and  pastures  there,  and  lands  in  Boxted,  Glemsford  or 
Somerton  appertaining  to  said  barne,  he  to  pay  three  hundred  pounds  amongst  such  of  my  kindred 
as  he  and  Edmund  Plume  the  yonger  abouesaid  shall  iudge  to  be  most  fitt.  If  he  do  not  pay 
then  I  give  said  lands  to  the  next  heire  of  mee.  To  Richard  and  Abraham  Kerrington  sonnes 
of  John  Kerrington  late  of  Glemsford  the  messuage  I  purchased  of  Edward  Frost  of  Boxted.  To 

Toby  Parker  my  servant.  All  my  arable  ffeild  in  Glemsford  called  Newcroft,  being  nyne  acres, 

to  trustees  for  the  poore  of  Glemsford.  To  Martha  wife  of  John  Auborne  of  Denston  in  Suffolk 
a  messuage  in  Stansfeild  for  life,  then  to  Ambrose  Westrop  yeoman  and  his  heirs.  To  Henry 
Kerington  sonn  of  Hemy  Kerington  of  Glemsford  clothier  deceased  five  acres  in  Glemsford  abutting 
upon  Calice  and  Newcroft.  I  forgive  Thomas  Paine  of  Boxted  all  moneys  due  vnto  mee.  To 
John  Hamond  and  Walter  Hamond  sonnes  of  my  kinsman  Thomas  Hamond  late  of  Cressners 
a  messuage  in  Stansfield.  To  my  couseus  Ambrose  Everard  of  Reed  and  his  three  children  and  to 
the  sisters  of  said  John  and  Walter  Hamond  and  to  Thomas  Wolrich  their  brother.  To  Dorothy 
one  of  the  daughters  of  my  cosen  George  Ruse.  To  Mary  Ruse  another  daughter  marryed  to  one 
Glascock.  To  Hester  Ray  widdow.  To  Ozias  Paske  of  Boxted  &  John  Adams  the  elder  of 
Hawkedon.  Mr8  Frances  Welstead  my  kinswoman  The  widdow  Scott  of  Cavendish  my  kinswoman. 
To  the  children  of  William  Copin  &  Dorothy  his  wife.  To  Ambrose  Westrop  of  Thurston,  John 
Westrop  his  brother  and  Thomas  Houghton  of  Braintree  son  of  John  Houghton  of  Black  Notley 
in  Essex.  To  Richard  Merrills  of  Hartest,  yeoman  my  kinsman.  To  the  widdow  Gentle  of 
Hartest  daughter  of  Nicholas  Hamond  my  kinsman.  Vnto  John  Paske  now  or  late  of  Kedington 
my  kinsman  sonne  of  John  Paske  late  of  Boxted.  To  the  children  of  John  Auborne  of  Denston 

To  Robert  Hamond  of  Melford.  Edmund  Plume  the  yonger  and  Philipp  Hamond  the  yonger 

to  be  executors.  Probatum  7  Sept.  1678  jur  executorum.  P.C.C.  99  Reeve. 


Will  of  fijtlip  Irammooft  of  Iftaiotooit,  1751. 

1,  Philip  Hamond  of  Hawkedon  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  Esquire,  confirm  to  Elizabeth  my 
wife  my  estate  called  Hawkedon  Hall  (according  to  the  true  intent  of  my  son  Philip  Hamond’s 

articles  of  marriage)  now  in  my  own  occupation,  with  a  liberty  of  living  in  the  said  house.  T0 

Philip  Hamond,  my  eldest  son,  the  Little  House  upon  Hawkedon  Green ;  he  to  suffer  Elizabeth 
my  wife  to  recieve  rents  during  her  life,  the  better  to  enable  her  to  pay  my  cosen  Anne  Barker 
her  annuity  of  ten  pounds  a  year  and  her  interest  money  of  sixty  pounds.  Said  Philip  to  pay 
his  youngest  sister  Anne  Hamond  forty  pounds  after  wives  death.  To  my  youngest  daughter  Anne 
and  her  heirs  for  ever  ffarme  in  Boxted  Street,  with  lands  in  Boxted,  Hartest  A  Stansted.  Unto 
said  son  Philip  Hamond  the  eight  pounds  a  year  payable  by  my  son  Mr  John  Keye  out  of  the 
Mote  ffarm  in  Boxted  Ac.  Wife  to  pay  to  my  son  John  Hamond  thirty  shillings  a  year,  and  to 
my  sister  Anne  Pells  of  North  Glemham,  widow,  eight  pounds  a  year.  Goods  to  wife.  To  be 
privately  buried  in  a  pinned  grave  only  in  Boxted  chancel  near  my  father  and  mother.  My 
youngest  daughter  Anne  Hamond  to  be  sole  executrix.  10  Nov.  1731.  Probate  21  Nov.  1735. 

Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  Wills,  1735,  fo.  193. 

The  Arms  of  Hammond,  as  represented  on  the  hatchments,  Ac.,  in  the  churches  of  Hawkedon 

and  Boxsted,  are  Per  pale  gules  and  azure,  three  demi-lions  passant  guardant  or  ;  and  the  Crest, 

a  wolf’s  head  erased  quarterly  or  and  azure.  The  greater  part  of  the  pedigree  which  follows  is 
taken  from  the  Records  of  the  College  of  Arms. 


HAMMOND  OF  HAWKEDON. 


26  L 


gammonti  of  fjatoftetion. 


Thomas  Hammond,  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Cresseners  in  Hawkedon, =pAnne,  daughter  of  John  Cawston  of  Hawkedon,  Lord 


co.  Suffolk,  which  he  acquired  from  his  father-in-law  by  deed  of 
feoffment  6  Feb.  3  Eliz.  (1561).  Adm.,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  26  Sept. 
1586,  to  Thos.  Hammond,  his  son,  Anne,  his  relict,  having  renounced. 


Thomas  Hammond- 
of  Hawkedon,  1587. 
Admon.,  Arch.  Sudb  , 
13  Nov.  1595,  to 
Anne  his  relict. 


Anne,  dau.  of 
Thos.  Payton  of 
Debden,'co.  Suff. 
Mar.  lie.,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  1587. 


— — , — , - 

Nicholas  Hammond,  1611. 


1 


of  the  Manor  of  Cresseners.  Her  will,  in  which  she 
is  styled  Anne  Hammond  the  elder,  is  dated  28 
March  1611,  proved,  Arch.  Subd.,  1612. 


Mary,  co-executrix 
to  her  mother, 
1611  ;  ob.  unm. 


Thomas  Hammond= 
of  Cresseners  in 
Hawkedon,  Gent  , 
16  Feb,  1662.  Will 
Arch.  Sudb.,  proved 
29  Oct.  following. 


-Sarah,  dau.  of 
Sir  John  Pas- 
chall  of  West 
Hassingfield  in 
com.  Essex,  Kt. 
Bysshe. 


A  mbrose  Ha  m  mond ,  1 6 1 1 . 

Itobert  Hammond,  1611.  George,  1611 

— n  n - 

Robert  Hammond, 

2d  sou,  1611. 


Anne,  ux.  .  .  . 
Coppen, &  had 
issue,  Thomas, 
Alice  and 
Bridget,  1611. 


Philip  Hammond, =pElizabetli,  1631. 


of  Boxsted.  Will, 
20  Dec.  1631, 
proved  Arch. Sudb., 
20  Feb.  following. 


Will,  12  May 
1 639,  proved 
P.C.C.  187Essex, 
13  Dec.  1648. 


John  Hammond, 
3d  son,  1611. 


Thomas  Hammond, 
eldest  son.  Adm. 
to  his  brother 
Philip,  1648. 


Ann, 


John  Hammond  of 
Cresseners  and  East 
Bergholt,  Gent ,  son 
andh.  Entered  ped. 
in  SuffolkVisitation, 
1664;  living  25  Dec. 
1693  ;  ob.  s.p. 


Walter  Hammond,  2d= 
son,  of  Pebmarsli,  co. 
Essex,  and  after  of 
Cresseners,  heir  to  his 
brother  1696  ;  living 
21  June  1705  ;  died 
10  May  1718. 


=Deborah, 
living  4 
Ap.  1714. 


bapt. 

- n 

Anne,  w°  of  Chris- 
toher  Scott,  clerk, 
1662  ;  was  of 
Cavendish,  1670. 

Elizabeth,  wife  of 
Thomas  Worliche. 


1514. 


Philip  Hammond= 
of  Boxted,  co  Suff., 
Gent.  ;  bapt  1597  ; 
ob.  1674.  set.  78. 
M.I.  in  Hawkedon 
Church. 


:  A  nne,  dau.  of 
Thomas  Griggs 
of  Hartest,  co. 
Suff  ,  Gent.  His 
Will,  PC.C.  11 
Oct.  1605. 


Robert  Hammond, 
bapt.  at  Boxted, 
1601  ;  bur.  1631. 

Elizabeth,  1611  ; 
bur.  4  Mar.  1622. 


Philip  Hammond 
of  boxted,  Gent. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
23  Aug.  1679;  pro¬ 
bate  12  May  1685. 
Ml.  in  Boxsted 
Church. 


_ ! 


=Martha,  sister  of 
Edmund  Plume 
of  Hawkedon, 
Esq.  M.  Lin  Box¬ 
ted  Church. 
Arms,  Hammond 
impaling  Plume. 


A  nne,  ux,  Edmund  Plume 
of  Hawkedon,  Esq.,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C.  95  Lane, 
1705,  Hi  ob.s.p.  Estates  to- 
Philip  Hamond,  his 
nephew7.  Shed.  17 22, aged 
91.  Ped.  Suff.  Vis.  1664. 


JohnHammondof  Brick=j=Mary ,  dau.  of  Edward 
Branch  of  Snailwell, 
co.  Cambr.  ;  mar.  set¬ 
tlement  4  Ap.  1704  ; 
ob.  1715,  pet.  35.  M.I. 


House  and  Cresseners 
in  Hawkedon,  Gent., 
1712 — 1723,  eldest 
son. 


W  al  ter  H  ammoud, 
2d  and  youngest 
s. ;  of  Stansfield,co. 
Suff.,  1719  ;  mar. 
and  had  issue. 


Susannah,  eld. 
dau.;  wife,  1705. 
of  John  Jolly  of 
Little  Saxharn, 
co.  Suffolk. 


Philip  Hammond  of=j=  Elizabeth, sister  and  devisee  of 
John  Pells  of  Cransford,  co. 
Suff.,  Gent.,  in  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  11  Sept.  1713.  Mar.  lie. 
Arch.  Suff.,  28  Sept.  1685. 


Hawkedon,  Esq.,  only 
son.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  10  Nov.  1751. 
Bur.  in  Boxted  Ch. 


John  Hammond  of = Anne,  sole  da.  and 
Cresseners  &  of  h.  of  Wm.  Phillips 


i — i — r 


Keddington,  co. 
Suff.,  eldest  son, 
born  1706;  ob. 
s  p,  circa  1773. 


of  Cotton  Hall  in 
Keddington,  mar. 
22  June  1704  ; 
bur.  at  Hawke¬ 
don,  1715. 


Walter,  2d  son. 
Mary, bapt. 1709. 
Branch,  b.  1710. 


Thomas  Ham¬ 
mond  of  New¬ 
market,  3d 
son  ;  bapt.  at 
Hawkedon 
1713  ;  ob.  18 
Nov.  1772. 


;  Rebecca 
Pleas- 
ance,  m. 
6  July 
1738 
ob.1793. 


Philip  Hammond- 
of  Boxted,  Esq., 
b.  1687  ;  d.  5 
May  1757.  M.I. 
in  Hawkedon 
Church. 


=Anne,  b. 
1681. bur.  at 
Hawkedon 
9  Dec.1742. 
M.I.  in 
Hawkedon 
Church. 


JohnHamtnond  of  Mel- 
ford,  Gent.,  mar.  Mary, 
da.  of  Roger  Ca  stel  1 ,  Esq  . 

Anne,  m.  John  Keye, 
clerk,  who  made  will, 
P.C.C.  Bedford,  1731. 


John  Hammond  of —A nne,  ob.  9  Ap.  Thomas,  2d  son. 


Cresseners  and  of 
Denston,  co.  Suff.. 
Gent.  ;  ob.  27  Feb. 
1809,  set.  69.  M.I. 
at  Hawkedon. 


1809,  set.  75. 
M  I.  on  altar- 
tomb  in  Hawke- 
donChurchyard. 


Mary,  ux.  Rich¬ 
ard  Eaton. 

Rebecca. 


Charles  Hammond=j=Ann 
of  Needham  and 
Newmarket,  Cam., 
Banker,  3d  son,  b. 

1749  ;  died  6  Mar. 

1837. 


Watson 
of  Exning, 
co.  Suff.,  in. 
25  Nov.  1782; 
ob.  3  Jan. 
1830. 


Philip  Knights=j= .  Anne,  d.  1738. 

Hammond, Esq.,  — 

bapt  at  Boxted,  Wm.  Hammond,  Gt., 

1718  ;  ob.  1758.  and  Elizabeth,  his 

M.I.  in  Hawke-  wife  M.I. in  Hawke¬ 
don  Church.  dun  Church,  1757. 


John  Hammond  of^Mary,  da.  of  Wm. 


Ashly, co.  Cambr-. 
and  of  Cresseners, 
which  was  sold  by 
his  grandson  in 
1885. 


Harlock.  M.I.  at 
Hawkedon  to  John 
Harlock  Ham¬ 
mond.  her  son,  who 


sl/d.  1823 


Charles  Hammond  of; 
Needham  and  New¬ 
market,  Banker,  only 
surviving  son  ;  born 
1783  ;  married  1818  ; 
died  19  April  1837. 


Maria  Elizabeth,  da.— Octavius  Hammond, : 
of  Isaac  Bank  Robin-  fifth  son,  Rector  of 
sou.  Rector  of  Wald-  Herringswell,  co. 
ingfield,  Suff.,  1st  wife;  Suff. ;  born  19  March 
died  23  Nov.  1863.  1835. 


Anne  Eliza¬ 
beth,  da.  of 
Thos.  Roger . 
son  of  Liver¬ 
pool. 


‘Ellen,  2d  da.  of 
John  Wilson  of 
Swinton,  co- 
Lancaster1;  died 
9  Jan.  1882,  ict. 
83. 


r* 


Philip  Hammond  of  Hawke — Harriet,  da.  of  ...  Kichard- 
don  Hall,  Esq.,b.  1749;  died  son  of  Melford.  She  renupt. 


1779  His  only  child,  Philip 
Knights  Richardson  Ham¬ 
mond,  born  and  died  1775. 
Estates  to  his  wife. 


John  Oliver,  Dec.  1779,  who 
thus  acquired  the  Hawke¬ 
don  estates,  which  after 
passed  to  the  Hales  family. 


Charles  E  ‘ton  Hammond, =f=Emily  Law,  2d  da.  of 


eldest  son,  of  Needham  Hall 
in  Gazeley,  co  Suff.,  and  of 
Newmarket,  Banker  ;  b.  5 
Nov.  1819  ;  mar.  at  Thorpe 
Arnold,  co.  Leic. 


the  Rev.  Plumpton 
Wilson,  M.A.,  Rector 
of  Thorpe  Arnold , 
co.  Leic.  She  died 
17  July  1879. 


Edward  Ham¬ 
mond,  2d  son, 
of  Cleveland 
House,  New¬ 
market;  b.  1821. 


Frederick  Ham-=[=Florence  Amy, 
mond  of  Cleveland  eld.  da.  of  the 
House, Newmarket  Rev.  John  Den- 
Banker,  &  of  Wood-  ny  Gilbert  of 
ditton,  co.  Camb. ;  Chedgrave 
born  24  Dec.  1837.\|/Manor,  Norff. 

- 1 — i - r 

Henry  Harnmon 
3d  son  ;  b.  1824, 


1.  Ellen,  b.  1822  ; 
mar.  1842  John 
Dobede,  eld.  son  of 
John  Dobede  of 
Soham,  co.  Camb., 
Esq.,  J.P.  &  D  L. 


2.FannyEliza, 
born  1828; 
mar.  John 
Calder  of 
Liverpool. 


Alfred  Hammond, 
b.  1827  ;  d.  1828. 


Anne,  3.  Emily,  b.  26  Dec.  1830  ; 

born  mar.  26  April  1859  Rev. 

1825  ;  Richard  Folliott  Scott, 

died  M.A.,  Vicar  of  Arlesley, 

1826.  co.  Beds.,  and  J.P.  See 

Scott  ok  Retton.  Burke. 


- 

Louisa, 
born 
31  Oct. 
1833. 


Charles  Edward  Hammond, =f=Agnes  Osborne  Mar- 
of  Newmarket,  Banker,  eld-  |  garet,  2d  da.  of  James 
est  son,  born  1856.  J.P. for  j  Allise  Wilkinson, 
Cambridgeshire  &  Suffolk.  I  Capt.lSth Regiment; 

sj/tnar.  1883. 


Henry  Lewis  Hammond— Ellen  Clare,  eldest 
of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  da.  of  the  Rev.  Ricli- 
and  of  Newmarket,  ard  Folliott  Scott, 
Banker,  2d  &  youngest  M.A.,  Vicar  of 
son  ;  born  1859.  Arlesey,  co.  Beds. 


t — r 


Emily  Blanche. 

Margareta  Ruth, 
died  April  1895. 


- i 

Ellen  Agues,  b.  1852; 
mar.  1876  Oswald 
Conway  Pyemont  of 
Croydon,  co.  Surrey. 


262 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


^agton.  2|ammonb,  Sangljam  of  Eonticin. 


.  Payton  of 


William  Payton  of  Risby,  =j= Joan,  <lau.  of  —Robert  Jervis  of  Broekley,  co.— Barbara,  Thomas  Payton,  John  Webb  of  Risby,  Lord  of 


co.  Suffolk.  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  6  Sept.  1556,  proved 
6  Oct.  following ;  names 
John  Webbe  of  Risby,  his 
brother-in-law. 


i - - 

Margery,  ux.  Richard 
Wilson  of  Rattlesden, 
co.  Suff.,  clerk.  Had  a 
daughter,  Margery  Wil¬ 
son,  living  1599. 


She  re-  Suffolk,  Gent.  Will,  Arch.  2d  wife,  one  of  the  execu-  the  Manor  of  Rochells  in 

married  Robert  Sudb.,  9  July  1594,  proved  1594.  tors  of  William  Shelland.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 

Jervis  and  died  2  Dec.  following;  bequests  Payton,  his  bro-  1586  ;  names  Mr.  Jervis  of 

1587.  to  Adam  Payton’s  children,  ther,  1556. 

Sybil  Hancock,  &c  ,  &c. 


Whepstead,  his  brother-in-law, 
Sibil],  his  wife,  &c.,  &c. 


Margaret,  ux.  Thomas  Bright  of  Bury  St.  Ed-  Joan  Pay- 
muuds  ;  made  will  as  Margaret  Bright  of  Lon-  ton,  died 
don,w°,  P.C.C.  16  Wallop,  12  Nov.  1589  ;  prob.  unmarried 
16  March  following.  A  quo  the  Brights  of  beforel588. 
Netherhall  and  Talmach  Hall,  in  the  Suffolk 
Visitation,  1664,  and  of  New  England. 


- ! - I - | 

Alice,  Elizabeth,  Sibill,  ux.  Richard  Han- 
uxor.  ux.  Clem-  cock  of  Ely,  both  living 
Adam  ent  Hindes  1588.  She  was  one  of  the 
Macro,  of  Ely;  both  devisees  of  Robert  J  ervis, 
living  1588.  1594, but  wasdead  in  1599. 


l - 

Thomas  Pay- 
ton,  sou  and 
heir,  a°  1556  ; 
•died  before 
1588. 


=Anne.  Robert  Adam  Payton  of  Bury  St.  Ed- 
Payton,  rounds,  yeoman,  third  son,  1588. 
2d  son  ;  Payton  c.  Hammond,  Eliz.  B  &  A. 
dead  His  children  are  devisees  of  Robert 

1588.  Jervis,  1594,  and  of  Margaret 
Bright,  1599. 


1 — r 


John  Payton,  4th  son. 
Ralph  Payton,  5th  son. 
George  Payton,  6th  son. 


- 1 

Rose,  d.  of  Payton 
named  in  herfather’s 
will,  1556  ;  in  Payton 
c.  Lanyham.  1558  ; 
and  in  Robert  Jer¬ 
vis’  will,  1594. 


■Simon  Langham  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds  in 
com.  Suff.  Ilarl.M 
14-76,  being  the  Visi¬ 
tation  of  London, 
1634.  Living  15S8. 


Anne  Payton,  sole=pThomas  Hammond 


■daughter  &  neiress, 
1586.  Marriage  li¬ 
cense,  Arch.  Sudb.,  7 
Feb.  1587  ;  then  of 
Hawkedon,  co.  Suff. 


of  Hawkedon,  1587. 
Admou.,  Arch.  Sudb., 
13  Nov.  1595  to  Anne 
Hammond,  his  relict. 


l - 

John 

Lanyham, 
eldest  son. 


George  Langham  of  London,  Mercld,  One-=f=  Thomazin,  d.  of 


of  the  Capts.  of  the  Cilty  of  Loud.  :  lining 
ao  1634-  Alderman  Deputy  of  Vintry 
xoard.  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Little  Haugh 
in  Norton,  co.  Suffolk.  Mileson  c.  Lang¬ 
ham,  Chas  I,  B  and  A.  Dead  1644. 


Rich.  Scales  of 
London.  Ar.  a  fes ; 
gu.,  a  label  as, 
Harl.  MS.  1476. 


- 1 

...  ux.  ... 
Withers. 
Mileson 
c.  Lang¬ 
ham. 


Thomas  Hammond  of=j=Sarah,  da.  of  Sir 


Cresseners  in  Hawke¬ 
don  Gent  ,  eldest  son. 
Will,  16  Feb.  1662, 
Arch.  Sudb. 


John  Paschall  of 
West  Hauning- 
field  in  com.  Es¬ 
sex,  Kt. 


1.  George  Lang¬ 
ham,  Gent,  exor. 
to  his  father. 
Mileson  c.  Lang¬ 
ham. 


- 1 — l - 

Henry,  2. 
Elizabeth. 


~r— r 


Thomas,  3. 

Willm.  4- 


- 1 - — 

Susan,  ux.  Jo. 
Jackson  of 
Mortlake  in 
com.  Surr. 


Judith  ux. 
Tho.  Bates 
of  London. 


- 1 

..  ux.  Mr. 
Harvey. 
Mileson  c. 
Lanyham. 


This  pedigree  is  founded  upon  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  Payton  contra  Hamond,  Q.  Elizabeth,  B  and  A,  P.p.  14.  41, 
dated  12  June  1588.  The  complainants  are  Adam  Payton  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  Margaret  Bright  of  Bury,  widow,  Richard  Wilson 
of  Rattlesden,  clerk,  and  Margery,  his  wife,  Simon  Langham  of  Bury  and  Rose,  his  wife,  Clement  Hynds  of  Ely  and  Elizabeth, 
Ids  wife,  and  Richard  Hancock  of  Ely  and  Sibill,  his  wife  ;  said  Adam  Payton,  Margaret  Bright,  Margery  Wilson,  Rose  Langham, 
Elizabeth  Hynds  and  Sibill  Hancock  being  children  of  one  William  Payton  of  Risby,  who  made  his  will  6  Sept.  1556.  The 
principal  defendants  are  Thomas  Hammond  and  Ann,  his  wife,  the  only  child  of  Thomas  Paytou,  deceased,  eldest  son  and  heir 
of  William  Payton,  the  testator,  and  brother  to  the  complainants.  The  suit  relates  to  lands,  &c.,  in  Risby,  Bury  St.  Edmunds) 
and  Little  Saxham,  settled  by  testator  upon  Johan,  his  wife.  It  is  stated  that  he  had  six  sons  and  seven  daughters  by  the 
said  Johan,  who  survived  him  one  and  tlxirty  years.  Their  names,  as  recited  in  the  proceedings,  are  given  above. 


IpantmoiHj  of 


atostcai. 


Inquisition  nit  tbt  trnatlj  of  Anno  Hamnumfr,  164L 

SufF.  Inquisitio  indentata  capt  apud  Burye  Scti  Edmundi  vicessirao  die  Januarij  anno 
regni  dni  nri  Caroli  Anglie  etc.  Regis  post  mortem  Anne  Hammond  nuper  vxoris  Thome 
Hammond  dum  vixit  de  Lawshall  in  com  pd  yeoman.  John  Hoe  ais  Howe  pater  j^dict  Anne  fuit 
seisitus  de  vno  messuagio  in  Hawkedon  &  87  acris  terr  in  Hawkedon  &  Rede  p  |Jdictu  Johem 
Hoe  perquisit  de  diuersis  personis  &c.  Idem  Johes  sic  seisitus  concessit  Phillippo  Sparrow  de  Depden 
yeoman  et  Anthonio  Sparrow  de  Hawkedon  p’dict  messuagiu  &c.  ad  opus  jifat  Johis  Hoe  et  post 
decessu  ad  opus  jJdict  Anne  filie  &  hered  corpora  Anne  &  defectu  talis  exit  ad  vsu  rectis  hered 
pdicti  Johis  Hoe.  Ulterius  |?dict  Anna  vicesimo  die  Aprilis  1629  cepit  in  viru  pdict  Thomatn 
Hammond  et  postea  vicessimo  tertio  die  Aprilis  1633  apud  Lawshall  obijt.  Indict  Johes  Hoe  28 
die  Octobris  1634  apud  Bradfield  obijt  et  Thomas  Hammond  octavo  die  Augusti  1640  apud 
Hawsteade  obijt.  Johes  Hammond  fuit  filius  senior  et  prox  heres  de  corpora  pdict  Anne,  et  tempore 
mortis  matris  fuit  setatis  duorum  anno£  octo  mensiu  et  24  dier.  Terr  jid  perquisit  de  Jotianne 
Sparrowe  Rebecca  vxori  eius  et  Antonio  Sparrow  tenebantur  de  Dho  Rege  vt  de  Honore  suo  de 
Clare  pceft  ducat  su  Lancastrie.  Inq.  p.m.  16  Car.  3,  10. 


Sttb  relating  to  HatastoatJ  Xan&s,  1756. 

Close  Roll,  30  Geo.  II,  8,  2. 

Indenture  tripartite,  dated  26  Nov.  1756.  Between  Ambrose  Hammond  of  Thames  Street 
in  the  parish  of  S1  Martin  Angore  London,  Salter,  only  son  and  heir  male  of  Francis  Hammond 
late  of  the  parish  of  Sl  Laurence  Jury  London,  Salter,  deceased,  who  was  eldest  son  and  heir  of 
Thomas  Hammond,  heretofore  of  the  said  parish  of  Sfc  Lawrence  Jury,  by  Martha  his  wife,  of  the 
first  part.  Thomas  Gray  of  Little  Moor  Fields  in  the  parish  of  Sfc  Giles  without  Cripplegate  of 
the  second  part,  and  Thomas  Bouns  of  Sl  Clement  Danes,  Gentleman,  of  the  third  part.  For 
Barring,  Docking,  and  Destroying  all  estates,  tails  and  remainders,  and  assuring  the  same,  said 
Ambrose  hath  sold  his  estates  in  Hawsted  and  Websted  in  the  county  of  Suffolk,  being  eighty 
acres  more  or  less,  to  the  said  Thomas  Gray. 


264 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


lammonb  of  fiato  steal). 


Anue,  da.  and  heir  of  John  Hoe  als,= 
How,  who  gave  her  lands  in  Hawke- 
don  and  ob.  at  Bradfield  28  Oct. 
1634.  She  was  m.  20  April  1629  and 
ob.  at  Lawshall  13  April  1633  ;  Inq. 
p.m.  16  Car.  ;  Admon.  of  Dorothy 
How,  her  mother,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1649. 


-Thomas  Hammond  of  Hawstead,  co.  Suffolk, =j=Susan,  2d  wife,  da.  of  Francis  Asty  of  Bury 


yeoman  :  ob  there  8  Aug  1640.  Will.  Arch. 
Sudb  ,  31  Aug.  1638  ;  prob.  31  Aug.  1640  ;  he 
names  Mr.  Asty,  his  father-in-law,  Thomas 
Hammond  of  Waldingfield  and  Abraham  Ham¬ 
mond  of  Stauningfield.  Lands  in  Lawshall  to 
John  Hammond,  his  son.  M.I.  in  Hawstead 
Chut  eh.  Gage,  p.  455. 


John  Hammond  of  Hawke-= 
don.  oo.  Suff.,  Gent.,  s.  &  h., 
1640;  born  circa  1630.  Will. 
Arch.  Sudb.,  29  Dec.  1682. 
proved  8  Nov.  1683.  Lands 
in  Lawshall,  Cockfield, 
Hawkedon  and  deed. 


Rebecca,  1682  and  1695. 


Elizabeth,  1682 
1695. 


and 


-Sarah,  da.  of  John  Spar¬ 
row  of  Reed  and  cousin 
to  Anthony  Sparrow,  Bp. 
of  Norwich  ;  devisee  of 
her  brother  Williams  par- 
row  of  Bildeston. clerk, in 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1684. 


Anne  Ham¬ 
mond,  named 
1638  in  her 
father's  will,  & 
1649  in  the 
Admon.  of 
Dorothy  How. 


Philip  Ham¬ 
mond,  youngest 
son,  bapt.  at 
Hawstead  19 
Mar.  1639  and 
named  1640  in 
his  father’s  will. 


St.Edmunds,  Gent.,  who  madeWill,P.C,C. 
96  Coventry,  1639  ;  sister  and  devisee  of 
EdmondAsty  of  Bury,  Gent.,  1643,  P-C.C. 
38  Rivers,  and  of  Francis  Asty  of  London. 
P.C.C. 225 Box, 1694.  ShemadeWill.P  C.C. 
2  Foote,  1  July  1686  &  was  then  of  Haw¬ 
stead,  w°.  M.I.  in  Hawstead  Ch. 


Francis  Hammond,  bapt.  at  Hawstead= 
1 1  April  1 638  ;  dead  in  1 686,  when  his 
mother  made  her  will. 


George  Hammond  of  London,  1704  ;  dead 
1736  ;  married  and  had  issue,  Susan,  Anue 
and  Mary. 


ThomasHammond= 
2d  son,  of  Chelms¬ 
ford,  Gent.  Will, 
P.C.C.  30  Degg,  17 
J  uly  1 695,  proved  1 
Feb.  1702.  Lands 
in  Hawkedon,  &c., 
to  JohnHammond, 
her  nephew. 


rHannah.  cousin — Robert  Gow 
to  Win.  Neave.  er,  styled 
Will,  P.C  C.  29 
Poley,  6  April 
1705.  proved 
11  Feb.  1706. 

Of  Chelmsford, 
widow. 


husband  of 
Hanuah 
Hammond  in 
prob.  of  her 
will,  170£. 


Martha,  1st  wife,= 
dau.  of  George  Ben- 
sou  of  Towcester, 
co.  Northampton, 
Esq.  ;  mar.  lie., 
Faculty  Office,  17 
Sept.1669.  Named 
in  Close  Roll,  30 
Geo.  II,  Hammond 
and  Gray. 


=Thomas  Hammond,  Citi-=pMary,  2d 


John  Hammond,  eldest  son,  of= 
Wattisham  Hall, co. Suff., Gent. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.  ;  prob.  28 
Nov.  1684  ;  names  uncle  Mr. 
Wm.  Sparrow  and  father-in- 
law,  John  Beaumont. 


=Sarali,  da.  of  John=John  Sparrow 
Beaumont  of  Bildes-  of  Reed,  co.  Suf- 
ton,  Gent.  Her  sister  folk.  Gent. .  2d 
Anne  Meadows,  w°,  husband.  Will, 
names  her  and  her  Arch.  Sudb., 
son  in  will,  1706.  1715. 


Martha,  widow  of 
Robert  Rayne  of  Gayns- 
ford.  co.  Durham.  Made 
Will,  P.C.C.  322  Boy- 


zen  andSalterofLondon, 
bapt.  at  Hawstead  1636. 
Will,  P.C.C.  206  Poley, 
30  .Tune  1704,  proved  19 
Sept.  1707.  Country 
house  at  Enfield,  co. 
Midd.  Lands  in  Haw¬ 
stead  and  Wliepstead, 
co.  Suffolk. 


'  43  ; 


John  Hammond,  s.  and  h.,  of 
Hawkedon,  Gent.,  1705. 


Elizabeth  Hammond,  devisee  of  her 
uncle  and  aunt,  1695,  1  705. 


proved  7  Oct.  1" 
had  son  Cuthbert  Rayne. 


Susan  Hammond, 
made  Will,  P.C.C. 
116  Potter,  1 2 
Aug.  1746  ;  prob. 
23  May  1747  ; 
names,  with  others, 
cousin  Elizabeth 
Sedgwick. 


wife,  named 
1704  in  her 
husband’s 
will.  Had 
dau.  Eliza¬ 
beth  Came 
by  a  former 
husband. 


- 1 

Mary,  wife 
of  Leonard 
Belt  1736 
devisee  of 
SusanHam 
mond,  he 
sister  1746 


Francis  Hammond,  eldest  son, =f=Honor,  eldest  dau.  of  Ambrose— Andrew  Lillie,  2d  Thomas  Hammond,  Citizen=pAnne,  younger  dau.  of 


Citizen  and  Salter  of  London, 
succeeded  to  his  father’s  lands 
in  Hawstead  and  Whepstead. 
Admon.,  P.C.C.  26  Aug.  1728. 
toHonorHammond,  his  widow. 


Asty  of  Northaw,  co.  Herts.,  by 
Anne,  sister  of  Sir  Fisher  Tench. 
Ambrose  Asty  made  Will,  P.C.C.  1 
Browning,  19  Jan.  1718.  Devisee 
of  AmbroseAsty,  her  brother,  1757. 


husband,  devisee 
of  Thomas  Ham¬ 
mond,  1736. 


and  Salter  of  London.  Will, 
P.C.C.  153  Potter,  21  March 
1736,  proved  18  June  1747. 
Buried  in  Northaw  Ch..  co 
Herts,  12  June  1747.  M.I. 


Ambrose  Hammond,  only  son,  born=j=Sarab,  dau.  of  Mrs.  Honor  Elizabeth 

1  708  ;  Citizen  and  Salter  of  London, and  Henry  Wright  Hammond,  died  Hammond, 

after  of  Potter’s  Bar,  co.  Midd,,  Gent,  of  Thornton,  co.  1758  ;  buried  died  1768  ; 

Settled  Hawstead  estates  1756.  C  lose  York  ;  buried  in  in  Northaw  buried  in 

Roll,  30  Geo.  II,  Hammond  and  Gray.  South  Minims’  Church,  co.  Northaw 

Will,  P.C.C.  247  Bogg,  5  Dec.  1768,  Church,  co.  Herts.  Church,  co. 

proved  5  July  1769.  Midd.,  1766.  Herts. 

i - 1 

Francis  Hammond,  Citizen  and  Salter  of  London,  born  1739  ;  buried  at  South  Mimms  1798  ,=j=Mary,  dau.  and  heiress  of  William  Wood- 
apparently  only  son  and  devisee  of  his  father,  who  left  him  lauds  in  Middlesex,  Hertfordshire,  gate  of  Sele,  co.  Kent,  died  1778  ;  buried 
and  Suffolk  (Hawstead  and  Whepstead).  |  at  South  Mimms. 


Mary,  under  age 
1768  ;  mar.  Robert 
KingscoteofKings- 
cote.co.  Gloucester; 
devisee  of  Am¬ 
brose  Asty,  her 
uncle,  1757. 


A  mbrose  Asty  of 
Northaw,  co.  Herts , 
Esq  ,  by  Anne,  sister  of 
Sir  Fisher  Tench.  Bur¬ 
ied  at  Northaw  1749. 
- 1 

Anne,  under  age 
1768;  mar.  John 
Manley  of  the 
Braziers, co.  Herts. ; 
devisee  of  Ambrose 
Asty,  her  uncle, 
1757. 


Sir  Francis  Thomas  Hammond  of  Plumton,  in  Whepstead,  co.  Suffolk, =j=Louisa.  dau.  James  Ham- 
Knight  Grand  Cross  of  Hanover  and  of  the  Royal  Order  of  Wurtem-  of  Admiral  mond  of  Pot- 
burg;  First  Equerry  to  King  George  IV;  Lieut. -Governor  of  Edinburgh  Sir  Richard  ter's  Bar,  co. 
and  General  of  H.  M.  Forces.  Ob.  26  Nov.  1850;  bur.  at  Northaw.  M.I.  |  King,  Bart.  Herts. 


Ambrose  Hammond, 
named  1768  in  his 
grandfather’s  will ; 
died  young. 


Elizabeth, 
died  young. 


Georgina  Augusta  Francis,  only  child  ;  died  25  Oct.  1824,  art.  16  ;  buried  at  Dupplin  Castle,  N.B. 


The  above  differs  in  many  respects  from  the  pedigree  given  by  Gage  in  his  “History  of  Thingoe,”  which  is  founded  upon 
the  information  of  Sir  Francis  Thomas  Hammond.  Sir  Thomas  bore  as  Arms,  Quarterly  1st,  Argent,  on  a  chevron  Sable  between  three 
ogresses,  each  charged  with  a  martlet  of  the  field,  three  escallops  Or,  all  within  a  bordure  engrailed  Vert ;  for  Hammond  (the  will  of 

his  ancestor,  in  1638,  having  been  sealed  with  a  chevron  between  three  ogresses)  :  2d,  Bendy  Or  and  Azure,  for  Asty  ;  3d,  Checquy 

Or  and  Gules,  a  canton  Ermine,  for  Rayne :  and  4th,  Argent,  on  a  chevron  Sable,  threee  crosses  patee  Or,  for  Benson.  Crest. 

An  eagle  Sable,  bsuant  out  of  a  ducal  crown  Or,  infiled  with  a  rose  proper.  It  is  difficult  to  reconcile  these  quarterings,  and 

indeed  Gage’s  pedigree  itself,  with  the  data  afforded  by  the  wills,  deeds,  licenses,  Ac.,  upon  which  the  present  genealogy  is  based. 


! 


HAMMOND  OF  HAWSTEAD. 


265 


6rtgg0,  Hammonti,  |3olueU,  Eag. 


John  Griggs.  = 


=Rose  Griggs  of  Somerton,  co.  Suffolk,  widow, 
proved  at  Bury  (100  Boner)  27  April  1494. 


Will 


William  Griggs  (Grigg)  of  Stansfield,  co.  Suff.;  yeomau.  Will,  1 5: 
April  1515,  proved  at  Bury  (219  Boner)  20  March  1515.  Lands  in 
Somerton,  Boxted,  Hartest,  Stansfield,  Posliugford  and  Lawshall. 


=Katlierine  Browne.  Will,  15  May  1523,  proved  at  Bury  (60 
Newton)  15  June  1523.  Executors,  “Sir  John  Coppin, 
parson  of  Burgate,  and  William  Browne,  my  brother.” 


J 


Edmund  Griggs  of  Somerton.  Lands=j=Rose.  William 
at  Weston  Colville  and  Wrating,  co.  Griggs. 

Camb.  ;  died  1556. 


Robert  Grigge  of  Brockley,  co.  Suff.  Will,  5  Aug. 
1562,  proved  at  Bury  (31  Wood)  27  Sept.  1562. 
Lands  in  Hartest,  Somerton,  Boxted,  &c. 


Nl/ 


Joane,  mar¬ 
ried  to  John 
Davy. 


RobertGriggs. 
John  Griggs. 


Henry  Griggs  of  Brockley.  Will,  3  Sept.  1574,  proved  at  Bury  (53  Wroo)=j=Alice,  his  relict, — Stephen  Sparrow  of 


- 1 

Rose 


29  Oct.  1574.  “  Son  Thomas  to  goe  to  schoole  as  long  as  he  wolde  goe  or 

his  friends  wolde  drive  him.”  C/ianc.  Proc .,  Eliz.  I,  3,  57,  Iceson  c.  Grigges. 


re-mar.  Stephen 
Sparrow. 


Brockley  ;  mar.  at 
Reed,  21  June  1575. 


Griggs.  \ 


Thomas  Lilly  of=pAnne,  Griggs,  m. 


Dens  ton,  co.  Suff. 
Will,P.  U.  C.  7  7  Hay  es, 
6  Dec.  1604  ;  chil¬ 
dren  young  ;  names 
brother-in-law  Tho¬ 
mas  Grigg3. 


at  Hartest,  8  Oct. 
1581.  Sliere  nupt. 
Michael  King,  and 
made  will  4  Oct. 
1632.  Lilly  c. 
Orbell,  Mitford  II. 


Dorothy  Thomas  Griggs  of  Hartest,  Gent.1 
Griggs.'  Inq.  p.m.  1606.  Will,  P.C.C.  59 
Stafford,  11  Oct.  1605,  proved  7 
July  1606.  Ob.  1  March  1605. 
Lands  in  Brockley,  Hartest, 
Whepsted,  &c.  co.  Suffolk,  and 
in  Lincolnshire. 


=Anne,  his  relict  and=j=Thomas  Wright  of Mary, 
executrix,  mar.  |  Hartest, Gent.  Will,  I  2d 

secondly  Thomas  1  Bury  Wills,  Camden  wife. 

Wright  at  Brockley  See.,  22  Mar.  1646, 

22  Dec.  1608;  bur.  prov.  1648;  founded 
at  Hartest  20  March  almshouses  at  Har- 
1637.  test  ;  bur.  there  13 

xj/Jan.  1647.  xl/ 


William  Orbell, =p  Anne  Lilly,  made 


made  Will, 
1664.  Lilly  c. 
Orbell,  Mitford 
II,  283,  63  and 
329.  34. 


Will,  P  C.C.  374 
Woolton,  15  Oct. 
1657,  as  Anne  Or¬ 
bell  of  Pentlow,co. 
Essex, widow;  pro¬ 
bate  2  July  1658. 


WilliamGriggs, 
son  and  heir, 
a;t.  8  in  1606  ; 
living  22  Mar. 
1646  ;  bapt.  at 
Hartest,  13 
Sept.  1598. 


- i — n - 

Thomas,  bap,  1599. 

John,  bapt.  1605. 
Alice,  bapt.  1602. 


Henry  Griggs  of  So-=j=Susan  Stebou,  mar. 


merton,  clothier,  bap. 
atHartest,1603.  Will, 
25  Aug.  1666,  proved 
at  Bury  1 5  J une  1670. 
Bur.  at  Somerton,  4 
March  1669. 


at  Hartest  23  Dec, 
1628.  Made  will  as 
Susan  Griggs  of  Box¬ 
ted,  widow,  22  Oct. 
1677,  proved  Arch. 
Sudb.  1679. 


Anne  Griggs,  bapt.  at 
Hartest,  1601  ;  mar. 
at  St.  Mary’s,  Bury  St. 
Edmunds,  Philip 
Hammond,  Gent.  ; 
bur.  in  Hawkedon 
Church,  1676.  M.I. 


Thomas  Orbell  of= 
Stansfield,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk.  Made  Will, 
P.C.C.  78  Hale,  10 
July  1676;  prob, 
14  July  1677. 


Mary,ux  John 
Fitch  of  Bel- 
champ  St. 
Paul,  co.  Es¬ 
sex;  had  issue. 


Henry, 

bapt. 

1629. 

Thomas, 

1646. 


J ames  Griggs, - 
bapt.  at  Har¬ 
test,  14  June 
1632;  died 
before  29  Oct. 
1677.  I 


= Frances,  dau.  of  Henry  Hammond 
of  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  who  made 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  24  Sept.  1664, 
naming  her  husband  and  children. 
Mar.  at  St.  Mary’s  Church,  24 
April  1659. 


Susan  Griggs, =pHenry  Murton, 


bapt.  atHartest, 
1634;  bur.  at 
Somerton,  25 
Dec.  1676  ;  had 
sons  and  daus. 


of  Somerton,  co. 
Suffolk,  b.  there 
1636  ;  bur.  at 
Boxted  19  Sept. 
1673. 


Walter  Ray  of  Den¬ 
ham,  co.  Suffolk. 
Will,  P.C.C.  100  Co¬ 
ker,  17  July  1691, 
proved  13  June  1693, 
by  relict. 


- 1 - 

-Elizabeth  Orbell, 
one  of  the  daus., 
mar.  at  St,  Mary’s, 
Bury  St.  Edmunds 
12  June  1667. 


William  Orbell. 

Bridget,  wife  of 
Wm.  Clarke  of 
Pentlow,  1676. 


i — — i — I. 

Henry  Griggs. 
James  Griggs. 
Alice  Griggs. 


Henry  Murton, 
mar.  Mary, 
dau.  of  Henry 
Hammond  of 
Lawshall, co.Suf- 
folk. 


Katherine  Mur¬ 
ton,  bapt.  at  Som¬ 
erton,  1668  ;  bur. 
atHawstead.  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  prov. 
1752. 


-4 

=Jolin  Powell  of 
Hammond’s  Farm, 
Hawsted.  Will,  14 
June  1723,  proved 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 
1725. 


Walter  Ray,  citizen=j=Elizabeth, 


and  grocer  of  Lou¬ 
don,  devisee  of  his 
grandfather  Orbell, 
1676  ;  died  1735. 
Will,  P.C.C.  167 
Wake.  Mary  Ray, 
his  dau.,  mar.  Ed¬ 
ward  Isaack  Jackson. 


dau.  of  Pe¬ 
ter  Ling  of 
Bury  St. 
Edmunds, 
died  1  Oct. 
1739, 


Henry  Ray. 
Richard  Ray. 
John  Ray. 


Nt' 


Orbel  Rey  of: 
Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  died 
1753.  Will, 
P.C.C.  299 
Searle.  Susan 
Ray,  his  da., 
mar.  J  ames 
Oakes  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  -q/ 


Rebecca 
Garn- 
ham,mar. 
15  May 
1701  ; 
died  26 
Jan.  1750. 


- 1 

Margaret 
Ray,  mar. 
Thomas 
Clark, 
Esq. 


David  Powell.  2d  son,  born  at  Haw¬ 
sted,  1695  ;  citizen  and  salter  of 
London  ;  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Wattis- 
field,  co.  Suffolk.  Died  at  Clapton, 
co,  Middx.,  1784,  aged  88.  From 
whom  descend  Powell  of  Loughton, 
Powell  of  Sfeldhukst  and  the  Baden- 
Po wells.  See  “  The  Pedigree  of  the 
Family  of  Powell,”  by  Edgar  Powell. 


i 


am  mo  till  of  Jlpstoul) 


Mill  of  fjammontr,  1667. 

I  Edward  Hamond  the  elder  of  Ipswich,  marriner,  being  through  ye  rich  mercy  of  God  in 
perfect  health  mind  and  memory  make  this  my  last  will  and  testament  in  manner  and  forme 
following.  I  give  vnto  my  daughter  Abigail  one  hundred  pounds  vpon  her  marriage  or  fourteen 
days  after  the  decease  of  her  mother  ;  also  my  messuage  in  S*  Nicholas  parish  fourteen  dayes 

after  the  decease  of  my  aunt  Tebb.  Vnto  Thomazine  my  daughter  the  like  sutne  of  one  hundred 

pounds  at  day  of  marriage  &c.  and  my  parte  of  the  sliipp  called  the  Patriarke.  Vnto  Thomazine 
my  wife  while  she  remaines  my  widdowe  the  vse  of  my  personall  estate,  shipping,  goods  &c.  for 
the  educating  and  bringing  up  my  children.  After  her  decease  the  house  I  dwell  in  to  Edward 
my  sonne,  according  to  his  mother’s  Joyntur.  My  house  in  Wicks  Bishop  and  copy  lands  to 
Nathaniel  my  sonne  ;  he  to  pay  my  sonne  Samuel  tenn  pounds  after  my  wives  decease  if  he  be 

then  living.  My  shipping  to  be  devided  into  two  parts  :  one  part  of  which  I  bequeath  to  my 

two  daughters,  and  the  other  part  equally  to  my  sonnes  William,  Jonathan  and  John.  Wife  to 
give  bond  of  one  thousand  pounds,  in  case  she  marry  again,  to  my  brother  Mr  John  Hammond 
and  to  Mr  Henry  Parkehurst  of  Ipswich.  The  second  day  of  Novr  1667.  Codicil  6th  Novr  1667. 

I  bequeath  one  tenth  part  of  my  whole  estate  to  the  silenced  ministers  :  namely  two  thirds  of  it 

to  the  Presbiterian  ministers  that  need  it  and  one  third  of  it  to  ye  Independents,  begging  their 

Prayers  to  God  for  his  Covenant  blessings  vpon  my  posteritie.  Tricesimo  die  Aprilis  1681  Comiss 

Adhi  Abigail  Bowell  ats  Hamond  vxori  Thome  Bowell  filie  dci  defte — Thomazina  Hamond  relicta  et 
vnica  execu  trice  ante  mortem  dci  testator  mortem  obienti. 

Arch.  Suff.  Liber  “  King,”  fo.  20. 

The  Hammonds  of  Ipswich  were  a  race  of  hardy  sea  captains  and  themselves  in  great  part 
owners  of  the  ships  they  sailed  in  and  the  cargoes  they  carried.  They  held  the  Manor  of  Newton 
Hall  in  Swilland  for  several  generations.  Edward  Hammond,  who  died  a  little  after  the  Restoration, 
is  mentioned  with  approval  by  Matthias  Candler,  the  genealogical  Vicar  of  Coddenham.  “  Henry 

Bloomfield,”  he  says,  “  one  of  the  Chiefe  Constables  of  the  Hu  of  Thredling,”  married  to  his 

second  wife,  “  Thomasin  daughter  of  Thomas  Coale  of  Ipswich,  the  relict  of  W“  Peche  a  Mr  of 
a  ship  neere  the  old  Barre  gates  in  Ipswich.  She  had  a  daughter  m.  to  Edward  Hamont 
Mr  of  a  ship  in  Ipswich,  a  pins  man.”  Harl.  MS.  6071,  p.  543.  An  armorial  tombstone  in 

the  churchyard  of  St.  Clement  bears  the  inscription,  “  The  Burying  place  of  Captain  Benjamin 

Hamond  and  Captain  John  Hammond,  sons  of  Edward  Hamond  in  this  parish.”  Then  follow 
names  and  dates.  The  Shield,  Party  per  pale,  displays  a  quatrefoil  between  three  demi-lions 
passant  guardant  ;  and  the  Crest  above,  on  helmet  and  torse,  is  a  wolf’s  head  erased. 


HAMMOND  OF  IPSWICH. 


267 


fjammonti  0f  ^psltncl). 


EdwardHammond  of=j=Catlierine,  his  wife,  1571 — 1577.  The 


Ipswich  ;  living  in 
St.  Clement’s  parish, 
1571—1577. 


r~r-- 


Mary,  bapt.  at  St.  Clem¬ 
ent’s,  1571. 

Susan,  bapt.  at  St.  Clem¬ 
ent’s,  1573. 


marriage  of  William  Greenleaf  and  a 
Catherine  Hammond  is  recorded  in  the 
Registers  of  St.  Clement,  1579. 


John  Ward  of  Ipswich,  shipwright ;  very  aged  wlien= 
he  made  Will,  P.C.C'  42  Russell,  17  Feb.  1630  ;  prob. 
9  May  1633.  Had,  with  other  property,  a  messuage 
in  St.  Clement’s  parish. 


John  Ward, 
eldest  son, 
apparently 
s.p.  in  A0 
1630. 


Robert  Ward 
of  Ipswich  ; 
had  issue  by 
Thomasiue, 
his  wife. 
1630. 


Richard  Ward 
dead  1630 
having  issue, 
Richard  and 
Thomasiue 
Ward. 


Elizabeth,  ux. 
Thomas  Greenleaf 
of  Ipswich,  who 
made  W  ill,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  23  Aug. 
1619  :  prob.  1621. 


Thomas  Cole= 
of  Ipswich, 
Mariner. 

Will  proved 
P.C.C,  1626. 


- 1 - 

^Thomasine 
Ward.  HerWill 
of  12  Ap.  1651, 
was  proved 
P.C.C.lllGrey, 
9  June  1651. 


Margaret, 
ux.  .  .  .  Hur- 
lock  and  had 
issue.  She 
was  dead  in 
1630. 


perhaps=pW’illiamHammond=pMary,  second  Thomas  Cole^f  Sarah,  dau.  of 


the“sisterHa- 
mant  ”  named 
in  the  will  of 
Thos.  Eldred 
of  Ipswich. 
See  his  ped. 
in  the  Yisitn. 
of  Essex,  1634. 


of  Ipswich.  Mari¬ 
ner.  Will,  P.C.C. 
339  Alehin  and  70 
Pembroke,  24  Jan. 
1649;  prob.  23  May 
1650.  He  names 
Hannah  Morgan,  a 
grandchild.  Had 
many  children. 


wife.  She  re- 
nupt  Henry 
Parkliurst  of 
Ipswich,  Mari¬ 
ner,  whose 
W’ill,  Arch. 
Suff.,  is  dated 
8  Feb.  1680. 


of  Ipswich, 
Mariner. 
Will,  P.C.C. 
12  Dec.  1638, 
proved  13 
Feb.  1639. 
Had  son, 
ThomasCole. 


Marian  Greene, 
w°.  who  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  113 
Campbell,?  Aug. 
1642  ;  sister  to 
Thomas,  Re¬ 
becca  &  Abigail 
Greene. 


William  Peach  of: 
Ipswich,  Mariner. 
Will,  P.C.C.  14 
Sadler,  23  Feb. 
1632  ;  prob.  1634. 
Final  administra¬ 
tion  1681  to  Edward 
Hammond,  his 
grandson. 


:Thomasine  Cole, 
afterwards  second 
wife  of  Henry 
Blomfield,  1638 
“  one  of  the  chiefe 
Constables  of  the 
Hundred  of  Thred- 
ling.”  ilarl.  MS. 
6071. 


M/ 


"i — : — l — l 

J  olm  Cole. 

Margaret. 

Susan,  ux. . . . 
Tebb. 

Elizabeth,  ux. 
....  Pat- 
teriehe. 


John  Hammond  of= 
Ipswich,  devisee  of 
Ed  ward  Hammond 
his  brother,  1667. 
Sold  Newton  Hall 
Manor  in  Swilland 
by  Fine ,  Mich. 
1658. 


:ElizabethCrane, 
married  at  St. 
Clement’s.  Ips¬ 
wich,  1658.  Her 
son  William 
bapt.  1 650  and 
dau.  Eliz.,1647. 


William  Hammond  of 
Ipswich  ,M  ariner  .Will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  13  March 
1661.  By  Dorcas,  his 
wife,  had  two  sons, 
William  and  John,  and 
three  daughters,  Han¬ 
nah,  Dorcas  &  Martha. 


— — i - 

Richard  Ham¬ 
mond,  living 
1649. 

Mary  Ham¬ 
mond,  the  elder, 
living  1649. 


- r~ t - 1 - 

Sarah  wife  of  Edward  Hammond  of- 
John  Barnes,  a0  Ipswich.  Mariner.  Will, 


1649. 

...  wife  of  .. 
Grymble,  1649. 


Arch.  Suff-,  2  Nov.  1667. 
Admon.,  30  April  1681, 
to  Abigail  Bo  well,  his 
dau.  Names  his  aunt 
Tebb  and  his  brother 
Mr.  John  Hammond. 


- 1 

:Thomasine 
Peach,  mar.  at 
St.  Clement’s, 
Ipswich,  1638  ; 
dead  before  30 
April  1681,  and 
in  the  lifetime 
of  her  husband. 


John  Ham¬ 
mond  of  Ips¬ 
wich, Mariner. 
Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  7  June 
1690  ;  names 
Wm.  Ham¬ 
mond;  his  bro¬ 
ther.  Estate 
in  Swilland  & 
St.  Clemeut’s, 

I  pswich. 


fMary.  She 
made  Will, 
Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  12 
April,  a0 
1709  ;  prob. 
25  June  fol¬ 
lowing. 


J  onathan  H  amrnond. 
WUl, P.C.C.  189  Barnes, 
30  Sept.  1696  ;  prob. 
20  Oct.  1712,  s.p. 

Nathaniel  Hammond. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  26 
Feb.  1688;  prob.  13  Ap. 
1695  to  Amy,  his  relict. 


-- — — r - 

Edward  Hammond1 
of  Ipswich. Mariner 
bapt.  at  St.  Clem¬ 
ent’s.  1640.  Will, 
P.C.C.,  125  Dyke, 
7  Aug.  1690,  prov. 
same  year.  M.I. 
in  St.  Clement’s 
churchyard. 


^Elizabeth  . 

She  made  will. 
Arch.  Suff.,  3 
Oet.1721;  prob. 
17  Jan.  1722. 
M.I.  in  St. 
Clement's 
ehurchvard ;  d. 
1721,  aged  82. 


~\  r  i  t 

Abigail,  wife 
of  Thomas 
Bowell,  1668. 

Thomasine. 

Samuel. 

John,  1667. 


_ , _ i 

William  Hammond1 
of  Ipswich,  Mari¬ 
ner.  Will.  P.C.C. 
195  Lane,  18  Mar. 
1700,  proved  15 
Aug.  1709,  refer¬ 
ring  to  lands  in  St. 
Clement’s  and  his 
mother’s  shipping. 


=...  da.  and  de¬ 
visee  of  John 
Wright  of  St. 
Clement’s, 
Ipswich,  Esq., 
who  made 
Will,  P.C.C. 
97  Hare,  1683. 


John  Ham-=T=Grace,  his 


mond  of  Ips¬ 
wich,  Mariner. 
Will,  Arch 
Suff.,  16  Jan 
1737,  proved 
1751  ;  Jona¬ 
than  Ham¬ 


mond,  an  exor.sJ/Thomasine. 


wife ;  ob.  9 
Sept.  1728, 
aged  33.  M.I. 
in  St.  Clem- 
eut’s  church¬ 
yard.  Had 
daus.Grace& 


- 1 — i - 

Mary,  wife 
of  JohnRay- 
mond,1721. 
M.I. 

Sarah,  wife 
of  Andrew 
Taylor, 

1721. 


Thomasine, 
wife  of  John 
Margerum  of 
Ipswich, 
Gent.,  who 
made  Will, 
P.C.C.  109 
Henchman, 
1739. 


Elizabeth, 
wife  of  ... 
Luscoe, 
1690  and 
1721. 


Benjamin  Ham¬ 
mond  of  Ipswich , 
Mariner.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  1746. 
Was  twice  ship¬ 
wrecked.  Ob.  9 
June  1749,  aged 
71.  M.I.inSt.Cle- 
ment’s  ch.  -yard. 


John 

Ham¬ 

mond. 


- 1 — j — - 

Mary,  wife 
of ...  Frost, 
1700. 

Elizabeth, 
not  yet  18 
years  old  in 
1700. 


— rl 


Judith  & 
Sarah, 
living  a0 
1700. 


Edward. 


William  Hammond  the  younger, =pMary  . 
of  Ipswich, Mariner.  Will, P.C.C.  I  proved 
62  Herne,  18  March  1699 
bequeathing  Newton  Hall  i 
Swilland. 

Mary,  named  1709  in  her  grandmother’s 
will,  her  aunt  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Robert 
Small,  being  her  guardian. 


her 
husband’s 
will.  20  Ap. 
1702. 


Benjamin. 

Mary. 


Elizabeth,  John  Hammond  the  younger,  of  Ips-=j=Elizabeth,  sister  of  Thomas 
ux.  Robert  wich,  Mariner;  devisee  of  Mary  Veseyof  Sproughton,  Gent.; 

Small.  Yesey,  1712.  Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  20 

Dec.  1741,  prov.  16  Dec.  1746  ;  names 
sister  Mrs.  Abigail  Ellison. 


Veseyof  Sproughton,  Gent.; 
devisee  of  Robert  Cutler, 
1737’  See  Yesey  of  Hin- 
tlesham. 


Jonathan  Hammond  of  Ipswich,  Surgeon,  executor  of  John  Hammond, 
his  kinsman,  1737  ;  devisee  of  Robt.  Cutler  of  Sproughton,  Gent.,  in 
Will,  P.C.C.  198  Spurway,  1737. 

2  L2 


Ijwntmouti  of  Ufforli. 


®tll  ol  Jltarjarrt  Jfatljer,  1655. 

Margarett  Father  of  Yoxford  in  the  County  of  Suffolke  widdow,  15  July  1633.  First  I 
bequeath  vnto  Edward  Haraond  of  Westleton  my  nephew  and  to  Sarah  his  wyfe  all  my  messuages 
lands  tenements  &c.  in  UfFord  Melton  and  Bromeswell,  and  to  the  longest  liver  of  them,  and  after 
their  decease  to  William  Hamond  sonne  of  y'  said  Edward  and  Sarah  and  to  his  heires  for  ever; 
and  for  want  of  such  issue  to  John  Hamond  brother  of  the  sayd  William.  Said  William  not  yet 
one  and  twenty  yeares  of  age.  Ynto  sayd  Edward  Hamond  all  my  goods,  ready  money  &c.  Bv 
Indenture  tripartite,  dated  16  April  in  the  tenth  year  of  his  late  maiestye  King  James,  between 
John  Father  my  then  husband  and  me  his  then  wyfe  on  ye  ffirst  pte  and  Henry  Groome,  then 
of  Petistree  and  now  of  Vfford  on  ye  second  pte,  and  William  Glover  late  of  Ash  gent,  and  others 
on  ye  third  pte,  it  was  provided  that  for  consideracohs  therein  named  Henry  Groome  or  Margaret  his 
wife  should  enioy  the  Manor  liowse  called  Otlyes  in  UfFord  where  in  ye  said  Henry  Groome  now 
dwelleth  after  ye  decease  of  y*  aforesaid  John  Father  and  of  me,  and  should  pay  such  sumes  of 

money  as  I  should  will,  not  to  exceed  three  hundred  pounds  in  all.  Now  I  bequeath  unto  Jone  Till 

widdow  fForty  shillinges  :  Ynto  Robert  Geyton  of  Sutton  yeoman  thirty  pounds  :  Vnto  John  Man 
ten  pounds  :  Vnto  Mary  Culham  fine  pounds  &c.  I  appoint  sayd  Edward  Hamond  sole  executor. 
Probat.  29  Oct1'  1633  Edwardo  Hamond.  Arch.  SufFolc.  Original  Wills,  1633,  No.  38. 

The  William  Glover  mentioned  in  this  will  was  brother-in-law  to  Thomas  Hammond  of  Bury 
St.  Edmunds  (see  pp.  252 — 254).  His  son,  William  Glover,  Esq.,  of  Ash  sued  Edward  Hammond, 
the  executor,  for  five  hundred  pounds  which  he  alleged  the  testatrix  had  promised,  so  far  back 
as  1597,  to  leave  him  when  she  died.  ( Glover  c.  Hammond,  Chas.  I,  B  and  A,  GG.  18,  33.) 
She  was  at  that  time  the  widow  of  John  Glover,  his  grandfather.  By  Fine  in  Easter  Term,  1598, 
John  Father,  her  next  husband,  probably  by  way  of  marriage  settlement,  conveyed  his  Manor  of 
Otleys  in  UfFord  to  William  Glover,  her  stepson  ( Suffolk  Fines,  Pasch.,  40  Eliz.),  and  this  sale 

was  confirmed  by  a  similar  Fine  in  1601  ( Suffolk  Fines,  Trinity  Term,  43  Eliz.)  In  1612,  as 

stated  in  the  will,  he  finally  settled  it  upon  Margaret  Groom,  his  wife’s  niece,  who  seems, 
judging  from  her  uncle  Wyberd’s  testamentary  allusions  (see  p.  253),  her  many  marriages,  and 
John  Father’s  liberal  deed  of  gift,  to  have  been  a  very  attractive  woman.  He  made  will  as  John 
Father  of  Pettistree,  yeoman,  on  the  24th  August,  1625,  bequeathing  his  estates  in  Woodbridge, 
UfFord  and  Bromeswell  to  Edward  Hammond,  his  wife’s  nephew,  absolutely.  Probate  was  made 
15  Sept.  1625,  in  the  Registry  of  the  Archdeaconry  of  SufFolk. 


♦ 


HAMMOND  OF  UFFORD. 


269 


Will  of  Jltargaret  JFo*,  1660. 

Margaret  Fox  of  Ufford  in  the  couny  of  Suffolk  widd,  12  Nov.  1660.  Vnto  my  sister 
in  law  Sarah  Hamond  late  wife  of  Edw:  Hamond  my  late  brother  a  thirty  shillings  peece  of  gold. 
Vnto  John  Hamond  and  William  Hamond  my  nephewes  sonnes  of  ye  said  Edward  Hamond  my 
brother  ye  sum  of  threescore  pounds  a  peece.  Vnto  Thomas  Hamond  my  nephew  one  other 
sonne  of  y»  said  Edward  fifty  pounds.  Vnto  Lydia  y6  wife  of  John  Margritts  one  of  ye  daught3 
of  said  brother  threescore  pounds.  Vnto  Sarah  Hamond  my  neece  ye  daughtr  of  said  brother 
3  score  pounds.  Vnto  Elizabeth  Redgrave  my  neece  my  silu]  salt  sellar.  Vnto  aforesaid 
Lydia  Margitts  my  neece  my  dyamond  Ring.  Vnto  aforesaid  Sarah  Hamond  my  neece  one 
little  silu]  wine  cup  and  my  ring  with  a  murry  stone  and  my  red  ryding  sute.  I  giue  vnto 
Tho.  Alstone  ye  sonne  of  William  Alstone  geut.  my  late  husband  xxs  to  buy  him  a  Ring.  Vnto 
Elizabeth  the  wife  of  Tho.  Mann  of  Yoxford  gent,  my  best  gilt  cup  &c.  Vnto  John  Hamond 
sonne  of  John  Hamond  my  nephew  fiue  pounds  to  buy  him  a  piece  of  plate  wthall.  Vnto  Mearah 
Redgrif  and  Rose  Redgriffe  ye  daught8  of  aforesaid  Elizabeth  Redgrave  fiue  pounds  apeece  to  be 
paid  to  Henrye  Redgrave  their  father  for  theire  vse.  Vnto  Richard  Margitts  and  Elizabeth  Margetts 
ye  children  of  aforesaid  John  Margitts  fiue  pounds  a  peece.  Vnto  Edw.  Hamond  and  Thomas 
Hamond  children  of  aforesa  William  Hamond  fiue  pounds  a  peece.  Vnto  Joane  Briggs  of  little 
Glemha  my  kinswoma  twenty  shilling.  Vnto  Henrye  Briggs  yfi  sonne  of  John  Briggs  forty  shillings. 
All  ye  rest  of  my  money,  goods,  &c.,  vnto  my  nephew  William  Hamond.  Said  John  Hamond  and 
William  Hamond  to  be  executors.  Probat.  9  Maij  1661  Willimo  Hamond  vni  ei'm. 

Arch.  Suff.,  Book  No.  68,  “  Lockier,”  fo.  182b- 

We  are  told  in  Add.  MS.  4969,  which  consists  for  the  most  part  of  drawings  of  Arms  in 
Suffolk  and  Norfolk  Churches  by  William  Harvey,  Clarencieux,  that  there  was  in  Ufford  Church 
a  monumental  inscription  to  Henry  Groome  of  Ufford,  Gent.,  who  married  Margaret,  daughter  of 
Matthew  Hammond  of  St.  Edmundsbury,  Gent.,  and  died  on  the  3rd  of  April,  1634.  The  note 
occurs  upon  fo.  96,  an  inserted  leaf,  and  the  inscription  itself  has  long  since  disappeared. 


^ehtgtee  of  ijammonh  of  tSEfforti. 


From  the  London  Visitation  of  1687,  in  the  Records  of  the  Colleije  of  Anns. 


i - 

1.  John  Ham¬ 
mond  of  London, 
mercM  nov>  liv¬ 
ing  married  <£• 
hath  issue. 


Edward  Hammond  of  Wessiltou  Hall  in  co.  Suffolk =f= 
obyt  circa  ann.  1660  cetat  circa  65  an- 


2.  William  Ham¬ 
mond  of  Ufford 
in  co.  Suff.  cel. 
circ.  52  annor. 
16S7  second  son. 


-Hannah  daur 
of  Robt  Vil- 
lers  of  Loud- 
ham  Hall  in 
com.  Suff. 


- 1 - 

Thomas,  a  mer-=j=. 
chant  in  Norway 


Ob.  circa 


an. 


way. 


1683. 


daur  of 
inNor- 


Several  children  all  in 
Norway. 


Edward  Hammond— Catherine 

cit.  and  Haber-  daur  of  . 

dasher  of  London,  Yallop  of  Nor- 
but  free  of  the  wich,  Oentle- 
Fishmongers :  cetat  man,  sister  to 
27  Ann.  1687  hath  Sr  Robert  Y. 
as  yet  no  issue.  Kt. 


L 


2.  Thomas=r Parnell 


Hammond 
Citizen  of 
London, 
cet.  25  An. 
1687. 


dauT  of 
...Austen 
of  New¬ 
ton  in 
Suffolk. 


3.  William 
n oio  living  in 
Norway  being 
a  merch1  there 
unmanned  cet. 
23  An.  1687. 


If.  John  Ham¬ 
mond  of  the  six 
Clerks  Office  in 
Chancery,  cet. 
21  an.  1687. 


William  only  child  cet.  dim.  anni  16S7. 


•  i  I 

1.  Lydia  married  to  John  Mar  gets 
of  W oodbridge  in  Suffolk. 

2.  Elisabeth  married  to  Henry  Red¬ 
grave  of  Woodbridge  in  Suffolk. 

3.  Hannah  died  unmarried. 

I  i  I  i 

5.  Edmund,  cet.  17  Hannah 

annor.  1687,  now  living 

—  unmarried 

6.  Henry ,  cet.  15  ann.  cet.  circ.  19 

—  Ann.  1687. 

7.  Mathew,  cet.  10 
ann. 


Arms  Per  pale,  0.  and  B.,  3  demi-lions  counterehanged,  2  and  1  ;  in  centre  point  a  quatrefoil  Erm. 

“  It  doth  not  appear  that  they  are  related  [to]  Hammond  of  Hogclen  (Hawkedon)  and  of  East  Burgholt.” 

The  original  will  of  Henry  Redgrave,  1667,  now  in  the  Ipswich  Registry,  in  which  he  appoints  William 
Hammond,  his  brother-in-law,  supervisor,  is  sealed  with  the  Arms  of  Hammond  of  Hawkedon,  Party,  per  pale,  three 
demi-lions,  2  and  1  ;  the  Crest  being  a  wolf's  head  erased. 


270 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES, 


Hatnmont)  of  Effort). 


..  Hammond  of . =F 


J  ohn  Ham  mond, 
LL.D.,  a  Master 
in  Chancery. 
Will,  P.C.C.  62 
Drury,  21  Dec. 
32Eliz.  See  pedi¬ 
gree, p.254,  Ham¬ 
mond  of  Burt 
St.  Edmunds. 


- 1 - 

Thomas  Hammond 
LL.B.,  of  Bury  St. 
Edmunds.  Will, 
P.C.C.  28  Wood- 
hall,  11  March 
1599.  See  pedigree 
p.  254,  Hammond 
of  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds. 


Henry  Hammond 
of  Bury  St.  Ed¬ 
munds,  clothier. 
In  Will,  P.C.C. 
40  Montague, 
names  sister  Mrs. 
Margaret  Wyberd 
of  Parsly  Hall, 
Essex. 


William  Ham¬ 
mond  of  Lou¬ 
don,  Gent.  ; 
dead  1626, leav¬ 
ing  sons  Wil¬ 
liam  &  Edmond 
Hammond, citi¬ 
zens  of  Loudon, 
1635. 


Matthew  Hammond1 
of  Bury  St.Edmunds, 
Gent.  ;  named  in  the 
will  of  Richard  AVy- 
bard,  1607,  and  in  the 
M.I.  of  HenryGroom 
of  Ufford,  his  son- 
in-law,  1634.  Add. 
MS.  4969. 


Edward  Ham¬ 
mond  of  London, 
Gent.,namesMar- 
garet  Wyberd, 
his  sister,  in 
Will,  Arch.  Lond. 
1626.  Had  issue, 
a  dau.  m.  George 
Bower  of  London. 


Margaret,  wife  of 
Richd.  AVyberd  of 
High  Onger,  co. 
Essex,  Gent.,  who 
names  Matthew 
Hammond  &  Mar¬ 
garet  his  dau.  in 
Will,  P.CC.  120 
Sadler,  1607. 


Elizabeth, -^Edward  Hammond  of= 


probably 
1st  wife  ; 
bur.  at  Uf¬ 
ford,  1623. 


Ufford,  co.  Suffolk, 
Gent.,  nephew  and 
devisee  of  Margaret 
Father,  1633,  who 
gave  him  lands  in 
Ufford,  Bromeswell 
and  Melton. 


Margaret,  bapt.  at  Ufford,  1622. 


:Sarah,  second 
wife ;  a  widow 
in  1660  when 
Margaret  Fox, 
her  sister-in- 
law,  made 
her  will  ;  bur¬ 
ied  at  Ufford, 
1678. 


Henry  Groome- 
of  Ufford,  Gent., 
first  husband. 
Made  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw. ,  1 
Juue,  proved  4 
Sept.  1639.  M.I. 
formerly  at  Uf¬ 
ford,  Lands  to 
his  wife. 


-Margaret  Hammond, = 
made  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  as  Margaret 
Fox  of  Ufford,  w", 
13  Nov.  1660  ;  prob. 

9  May  1661  ;  named 
in  will  of  Richard 
Wyberd,  1607  ;  died 
sine  prole. 


-William  Alston= 
of  Marlesford, 
co.  Suffolk, 
Gent.,  2d  hus¬ 
band.  Made 
Will,  P.C.C.  108 
Evelyn,  9  June 
1646.  Had  issue 
by  a  former 
wife. 


Fox,3d 
hus¬ 
band  ; 
dead  in 
1660. 


Joan  AVyberd,  one 
of  the  daus.,  mar. 
Clias.  Sonnybanke, 
D.D., Canon  of  Wind¬ 
sor,  who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  163  Lee,  9 
Aug.  1636.  Her 
first  husband  was 
Humfrey  Wellinge, 
Gent. 


I - i - - - — - 

John  Ham-=f= .  2.  William  Hammond^  Hannah,  da.  of  Robert 


mond  of  Lon¬ 
don,  merchant 
1657  &  1687  ; 
bapt.  at  Uf¬ 
ford,  1627  ; 
deviseeofMar- 
garet  Father, 
1633,  and  of 
Margaret  Fox, 
1660. 


of  Ufford,  Gent., bapt. 
there  1629.  Will, 
P.C.C.  34  Shaller,  14 
Mar.  1718,  proved  5 
Feb.  1719.  Devisee 
of  Margaret  Father, 
1633, and  of  Margaret 
Gildersleeve,  1633. 


3.  William  Ham¬ 
mond,  bapt.  at  Uf¬ 
ford,  1 662  ;  a  mer¬ 
chant  in  Norway, 
1687,  and  not  yet 
married. 


\’ filers  of  Pettestree, 
co  Suffolk,  who  made 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  circa 
1674,  and  of  Margery, 
his  wife,  whose  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  was  proved 
circa  1683.  Bur.  at 
Ufford,  1718. 


3.  Thomas  Hammond, 
bapt.  at  Ufford,  1630  ; 
of  London,  merchant, 
1656.  Went  to  Norway 
where  he  died  circa 
1683.  Married  .  .  .  . 
da.  of  ...  in  Norway 
and  had  children  living 
there,  1687. 


- , — , — , - - - 

1.  Lydia,  married  to 
John  Marge tts  of 
Woodbridge  ;  living 
1660. 

3.  Hannah,  ob.  s.p. 
Sarah,  living  in  1660. 


- 7 

2.  Elizabeth,  married 
to  Henry  Redgrave  of 
AVoodbridge,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk,  mariner,  who 
made  AVill,  Arch,  Suff., 
27  Feb.  1667,  proved 
11  April  1668  ;  mar.  at 
Ufford,  1655. 


1.  Edward  Hammond  ^Catherine,  5.  Edmond, 

Citizen  &  Haberdasher  sister  to  bapt.  at  Uf- 

of  London;  bapt.  at  Sir  Robert  ford,  1669  ; 

Ufford,  1658  ;  no  issue  Yallop,Kt.  set.  17  in 

in  1587.  1687. 


6.  Henry, 
bapt.  at 
Ufford, 
1672  ;  set. 
15  in  1687. 


Matthew 
bapt.  at  Uf¬ 
ford,  1676  ; 
bur.  there 
1697. 


- 1 

Hannah, 
bapt.  at 
Ufford, 
1667. 


_ 


AVilliamHammond=j=Mary,  dau.  of 


of  Whitton,  co. 
Suff.,  Esq. , son  and 
heir ;  buried  in 
vault  which  he  had 
made  in  AA'hitton 
church. 


I — r 


Mary,  bapt.  at 
AVhitton,  1699. 

Rachel  1,  bapt.  at 
AVhitton,  1702. 


Sir  Thomas 
Hook,  Bart.,  of 
Tangier  Park 
House,  Hants. 
Davy. 


2,  Thomas  Hammond, : 
citizen  of  London,  set. 
25  an.  1687.  Of  Ufford, 
co.  Suff.,  25  Nov.  1722, 
when  he  made  Will,  Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.;  prob.  30  Sept. 
1725. 


-Parnell,  dau. 
of  .  .  .  Aus¬ 
ten  of  Newton 
in  Suffolk. 


4.  John  Hammond  of  the=j=Catherine,  living  1  720.  She 


Six  Clerk’s  Office  in 
Chancery,  ret.  21  in  1687. 
Will,  P.C.C.  53  Marl- 
borough24Aug,1720;  bur. 
inPetistreeCh.in  Suffolk; 
prob.  7  March  1721. 


M/ 


had  issue  John  Hammond 
of  Staple  Inn,  Middx.,  son 
and  heir  ;  Catherine,  wife  of 
Richard  Wild,  1710, &  Eliza¬ 
beth,  who  made  AVill,  1741, 
proved  Arch.  Suff.,  4  Aug. 
■1747. 


AVilliam  Hammond=Mary  Bronsden  of  Dept- 
of  Ufford,  Gent.,  26  ford,  co.  Kent  ;  mar. 

settlemt.  16  July  1715. 


May  1741,  when  he 
made  AVill,  P.C.C. 
180  Strahan,  proved 
23  June  1 748,  byMary 
his  relict.  Ob.  s.p. 


Ufford  Deeds.  Devisee 
1750  of  Mary  Bronsden, 
her  neice ;  was  then  of 
Woodbridge,  s  p. 


- 1 — i — i - - - 

John  Hammond,  1722. 

Mary,  bapt.  at  Ufford, 
1692  ;  mar.  there  to 
Edward  Holley,  1714. 

Edward, an  infant, bapt. 
and  bur.atUfford,1690. 


Sarah,  bapt.  at 
Ufford,  1694  ; 
mar.  Rev.  Jacob 
Chilton,  Rector 
of  Ufford  ;  died 
1783,  ®t.  89  ; 
youngest  dau. 


- 1 

Hannah,  ux . 

Nelson  ;  a  widow  in 
1722, when  her  father 
names  her  and  her 
two  daughters  Han¬ 
nah  Nelson  and 
Margaret  Nelson. 


1.  John  Hammond  of 
AA’hitton,  Esq.,  son  and 
heir.  AVill,  P.C.C.  177 
Price,  26  May  1731, 
prob.  7  June  1735;  bur. 
inAVhittonChurch.  Ob. 
s.p.  Manors  in  Suffolk, 
AA’arwick,  Devon,  Som¬ 
erset  and  Cornwall. 


2.  AVilliam  Hammond, 
Esq.,  2d  son,  heir  to  his 
brother,  1733.  Will, 
P.C.C.  92  Anstiss,  1 
Nov.  1747  ;  prob.  5 
Dec.  1747.  Ob.  s.p. 
Of  Great  Russell  Street, 
co.  Middx.  ;  bur.  in 
AA’hitton  Church. 


3.  Edmund  Hammond  of  Thomas 
Whitton,  Esq.,  3d  son,  Hammond, 
heir  to  his  brother,  1747.  bapt.  at 
AVill,  P.C.C-  199  Lynch,  AVhitton, 

17  Oct.  1755  ;  prob.  1760.  1705;  bur. 

Estates  on  sister’s  death,  there  7  Apr. 
s.p.  to  William  Hamilton  1743.  Ob. 

of  Naples,  merchant,  s.p. 

apparently  a  friend, 


Elizabeth  Ham¬ 
mond  of  AA’hitton, 
spinster.  AVill, 
Arch.  Suff.  31 
Aug.  1733;  prob. 
4  Sept.  1737.  Ob. 
s.p.  Estate.to  her 
sisters  Mary  and 
HesterHammond. 


- 1 

Esther  Hammond  of 
AA'hitton  Hall,  spinster, 
heir  to  her  brother 
Edmund.  Will,  P.C.C. 
19  Cheslyn,  5  June 
1760  ;  prob.  7  Feb. 
1761,  to  Elizabeth,  her 
cousin,  wife  of  Michael 
Heathcote,  Esq. 


J^ammonti  of  SUctjjertim. 


Will  of  ®Ijmtra  Hammattb,  1599, 

Thomas  Hammond  of  Wetherden  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke,  tanner,  12  Feb.  1599.  To 

be  buried  in  the  church  or  churchyarde.  To  Susan  my  wife  all  my  howses,  lands,  meadowes  &c 

vntill  Thomas  Hammonde  my  sonne  attayneth  the  full  age  of  seven  and  twenty  yeares.  Vnto 
Thomas  my  saide  sonne  my  virginalls  Ac.,  the  coffer  wherein  my  euidences  do  ly  Ac.  Alsoe  there 
is  one  hekfors  hide  of  Willyam  Muskett  in  the  bushes.  Legato™  as  I  am  to  pay  tenn  poundes 
a  yeare,  as  in  my  late  vncle  Barnabe  Gibsons  will,  in  the  church  porch  of  Debnum.  Said  vmde’s 
will,  the  which  I  stand  bound  to  M1'  Theodor  Goodwin  late  of  little  Stonham  gentleman  in  bond 

of  twoe  hundred  poundes.  Cozen  Barnabe  Gibson  shall  enter  in  said  stock  in  discharge  of  said 

Barnabe  agaynst  Theodor  Goodwin.  To  my  daughters  Susan,  Dina  and  An  Hammond  thirty  poundes 
apeece.  Wife  shall  keepe  my  son  Thomas  Hammond  at  the  free  schoole  at  Bodesdall  one  yeare 
after  my  decease.  To  Susan  Bettes  the  daughter  of  Thomas  Bettes  late  of  Hawley  the  sume  of 
five  poundes  as  by  Bettes’  will.  To  Thomas  Bettes  brother  to  said  Susan.  My  wife  and  sonne 
to  be  executors.  Probat  6  Oct.  1601  Susanne  Hammond  relicte  et  Thome  Hammond  filio. 

Arch.  Sudb.,  “  Whitney,”  fo.  453b. 


Will  of  ®Ijomos  Ifantmonft,  1610- 

Thomas  Hammond  of  Wetherden,  singleman,  20  April  8  Jas.  Executors  to  pay  ten  pounds 
per  annum  during  the  life  of  Suzan  Hammond  my  mother  as  by  the  last  will  of  Thomas 
Hammond  my  father.  Ynto  Suzan  Hammond  my  sister  the  tenement  where  my  mother  dwelleth 
after  her  decease.  Ynto  Dyana  Hammond  and  Anne  Hammond  my  sisters  lands  holden  of  the 
Mannor  of  Haughley.  By  lymatacon  of  the  will  of  Barnabe  Gibson,  late  of  little  Stonham,  my 
father  was  bound  to  perform  ten  pounds  by  yere  for  xx4i  yeres.  Barnabe  Gibson  my  kindsman 
and  Suzan  Hammond  my  mother  shall  have  the  lettinge  of  my  father’s  stocke,  office  of  tannynge 
Ac.  for  that  purpose.  To  my  sisters  Dyanie  and  Suzan  xxv11  each.  To  Symond  Whitten  my 
kindsman  x'1  he  to  acquit  my  mother  and  sisters  of  all  manner  of  accons  &c.  To  said  sisters 
seaven  skore  poundes  a  peece  out  of  my  sister  Suzann  lands  on  deathe  of  my  said  mother  and 
all  my  lands  in  Haughley  or  Wetherden.  To  my  sister  Dynaie  my  virginalls.  To  Mr  Barnabe 
Gibson  his  eldest  sonne  all  my  lattyne  and  lawe  bookes.  Best  of  my  goodes  to  Suzan  Hammond 
my  mother  and  Suzan  Hammond  my  sister.  Probatum  26  Nov.  1610  Suzanne  Hammond  sorori 
et  vni  exec  reseruat  potestate  Suzanne  Hammond  matri.  Arch.  Sudb.,  “  Rogen,”  fo.  254. 


272 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


fjammonli  of  metber&en.  ©egnes. 


.  .  .  Hammond1 
of  Wetherden, 
eo.  Suffolk. 


=.  .  .  probably  sister  of  Barnabas  Gibson 
of  Stonliam  Parva,  co.  Suffolk,  who 
founded  local  charities  and  was  buried 
in  the  church.  In  his  will,  a0  1594, 
P.C-C.  28  Scott,  he  appoints  Thos. 
Hamond,  his  nephew,  supervisor,  and 
names  his  children. 


Thomas  Betts  of  Wether¬ 
den,  yeoman.  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  10  July  1559  ;  prob. 
8  Mar.  1562  ;  to  be  buried 
in  the  church  ;  names  eldest 
son  of  his  brother  Walter 
Betts.  &c. 


:Joan  Betts  of  Wetherden, 
widow.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
24  March  1589  ;  prob.  1 
March  1590  ;  to  be  buried 
in  the  church  ;  names  sons 
Thomas  and  Andrew  Betts. 


Joan  Hammond, 
us.  .  .  .  Whitton 
and  had  son,  John 
Whitton,  devisee 
1594  of  Barnabas 
Gibson. 


Thomas  Hammond  of- 
Wetherden.  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb..  12  Feb.  1599; 
prob.  6  Oct.  1601 ;  to  be 
buried  in  the  church  ; 
namesBarnabasGibson, 
his  late  uncle. 


:Susan  Betts, 
devisee  of 
ThomasBetts, 
her  brother, 
in  1596;  living 
8  Jas. 


2.Thomas  Betts  of  Haugh-=j=Mary, 


ley,  co.  Suff.  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  23  Dec.  1596  ; 
prob.  6  May  1597  ;  to  be 
bur.  inWetherdenChurch; 
names  Andrew  Betts,  his 
brother. 


living 

1596. 


Walter  Betts, 
s.  and  h.  1559. 

AndrewBetts, 
3d  son,  1559. 


- ; — n 

Elizabeth,  ux. 
Thos.  Marshall  of 
Honygham,  Norff., 
1559. 

Margaret,  1559. 


sp 


Thomas  Hammond  of  Weth¬ 
erden.  Will,  Arch.  Sudb., 
20  Apr  8  Jas.  ;  prob.  26 
Nov.  1610.  Ob.  unm.  and 
s.p.  Names  Barnabas  Gib¬ 
son,  and  Simon  Whitton, 
his  kinsmen. 


- ! - - 

Susan  Hammond,1 
sister  and  coheir  of 
Thomas  Hammond, 
1610;  devisee  of  Bar¬ 
nabas  Gibson,  1594, 
and  of  Thomas  Betts, 
her  uncle,  1596. 


=John  Winterflood  of 
Alveley  Hall  in  Assing- 
ton,  Gent. ,  son  &  heir  of 
George  Winterflood  and 
grandson  of  John  W.  & 
Susan  Gale.  Inq.  p.m.9 
Car.  Ob.  6  July  9  Car. 


Diana  Hammond, = 
sister  and  coheir 
of  Thomas  Ham¬ 
mond  1610  ;  de¬ 
visee  of  Barna¬ 
bas  Gibson  1594, 
proved  husband’s 
will  10  April  1640. 


John  Winterflood,  Gent ,  son  and  heir,  1633. 


:John  Deynes  of 
Coddenham,Gent., 
a  chief  constable. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff., 
3  May  1639.  Inq. 
p.m.  16  Car.  ; 
marriage  recorded 
in  Bysshe’s  Visitn. 
of  Suffolk. 


- 1 

Anne  Ham¬ 
mond,  sister  and 
coheir  of  Thomas 
Hammond  1610, 
devisee  of  Bar¬ 
nabas  Gibson  in 
1594. 


Dorothy,  da.— John  Deynes,  Esq.,=|=Bridget,  dau.  of 


of  Sir  Richard 
Broke,  Ivt.,  by 
whom  he  had 
no  issue  ;  1st 
wife. 


M.D.  of  Ipswich. 
Entered  pedigree  in 
the  Suffolk  Visitation 
of  1664.  Will,  Arch. 
Suff.,  29  July,  a°  1674; 
prob.  20  Sept.  1680. 


Bartholomew  Dade, 
Gent.  ;  of  Ipswich, 
w°,  13  Aug.  1681, 
when  she  made  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.  ;  prob.  27 
Aug.  1681. 


Thomas  Deynes,  M.A., 
Rector  of  Gosbeck  ; 
born  1 625  ;  mar.  Anne, 
da.  of  Maurice  Moseley, 
Gent.,  Will, Arch. Suff., 
2  June  1674  ;  prob.  17 
June  1674. 


Francis  Deynes,  M.A., 
born  1630  ;  mar.  Alice, 
dau.  of  .  .  .  Burton,  some¬ 
time  Mayor  of  Orford, 
and  had  issue,  a  dau. 
Dinah,  devisee  of  her  aunt 
Susanna  Deynes,  1650. 


Susanna  Deynes  of 
Coddenham,  co. 
Suff.,  singlewoman  ; 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.  13 
Nov.  1650  ;  prob.  23 
April  1662, 


John  Deynes,  son 
and  heir. 


Elizabeth  Deynes, 
1674. 


Dorothy  Deynes, 
1674. 


Mary  Deynes, 
1674. 


Bridget  Deynes, 
1674. 


Johannes  Deynes  de  Jordains  in  Coddenham  gen,  natus  Anno  D'ni  1590,  a  chiefe  constable  (married)  Dinah  Hammond  filia 
Thome  Hammond  de  Wetherden,  nupta  1633.  (She  was)  one  of  the  three  daughters  and  coheires  of  Thomas  Hammond.  Susanna 
nupta  Johani  Winterflood  de  Early  Hall  in  Assington  Gent.,  Dinah  Hammond  nupta  Jo:  Deynes  Gent,  et  Anna  Hammond  fuerunt 
cohceres  post  mortem  Thomce  Hammond  fratris  qui  ccelebs  obijt. 

From  the  Deynes’  pedigree,  Harl.  MS.  6071.  p.  270,  collated  with  Tanner  MS.,  Lib.  Bodleian,  180,  141 


(gurtion  of  assmgtm 


^rtnorml  Searings. 

Tlie  Arms  of  Gurdon,  as  confirmed  and  allowed  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1612,  were  Sable, 
three  leopards’  faces  jess  ant  fleurs  de  lys  Or,  and  the  Crest,  On  a  wreath  Or  and  Sable,  a  goat 
Argent,  climbing  a  rock  or  mount  proper,  on  the  top  of  which  grow  three  sprigs  Vert,  flowered 
proper,  apparently  of  the  wild  rose.  The  official  drawing  which  accompanies  the  pedigree  represents 
Gurdon  as  quartering  Sexton,  Argent,  three  sinister  wings  Gules,  and  impaling  Brampton,  Quarterly, 
1  and  4,  Gules,  a  fess  Argent,  in  chief  three  plates,  for  Brampton  ;  2,  Chequy  Or  and  Gules,  a 
bend  Ermine,  for  Basingham  ;  and  3,  Argent,  three  piles  wavy  converging  in  point,  over  all  a  fess 
Argent,  apparently  for  Barton.  This  was,  clearly,  the  authorised  atchievement  of  John  Gurdon,  then 
Lord  of  Assington,  whose  mother  was  coheir  of  Sexton,  and  whose  wife  the  daughter  of  Brampton 
of  Letton  in  Norfolk. 


The  heraldic  MSS.  at  the  British  Museum  and  elsewhere,  although  of  no  real  authority,  give 
some  interesting  variations  of  these  authorised  Arms  and  Quarterings  of  Gurdon.  We  are  told  in 
the  old  family  pedigree  at  Letton  that  the  leopards’  faces  were  originally  argent,  but  that  Robert, 
the  younger  son  of  Sir  Adam  Gurdon,  changed  them  to  gold  to  be  distinguished  from  the  elder 
branch,  then  in  Wiltshire.  The  Arms,  as  tricked  in  Harl.  MS.  1560,  the  best  collection  of  Suffolk 
Visitation  Pedigrees  to  be  found  out  of  the  Heralds’  College,  are  surmounted  by  two  crests  which 
have,  at  one  time  or  another,  been  adopted  by  the  family.  The  one,  which  appears  [upon  the  older 
monuments  at  Assington,  is  a  leopard’s  face,  party  per  pale  Argent  and  Sable,  between  two  wings 
addorsed  counterchanged.  The  other  is  the  Goat  Argent,  horned  Or,  climbing  a  rock  proper,  with 
a  sprig  issuing  from  the  top  Vert.  An  atchievement  follows  which  is  identical  with  that  of  Brampton 
Gurdon  of  Letton  in  the  Norfolk  Visitation  of  1664.  Harl.  MS.  1085.  Beneath  the  second  crest, 
that  with  the  goat,  rock  and  twig,  is  Quarterly  of  Eight : — 


1. 

2, 

3. 

4. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 


Gurdon. 

Sexton. 

Brampton. 

Basingham. 

Barton. 


Gurdon. 


Sable,  three  leopards’  faces  jessant  fleurs  de  lys  Or. 

Argent,  three  sinister  wings  Gules. 

Gules,  a  fess  Argent,  in  chief  three  plates. 

Chequy  Or  and  Gules,  a  bend  Ermine. 

Argent,  on  a  fess  Gules,  three  annulets  Or. 

Paly  of  six  Argent  and  Azure,  over  all  a  fess  Gules. 

Argent,  three  piles  wavy  converging  in  point,  over  all  a  fess  azure. 
As  No.  1. 


According  to  Add.  MSS.  5524,  a  book  with  Tom.  Martin’s  autograph  on  the  first  leaf,  Paly 
of  six,  Argent  and  Azure,  over  all  a  fess  Gules,  is  for  Lizers.  Many  MSS.  give  a  Shield,  Quarterly 
of  four  :  1,  Gurdon  ;  2,  Sexton  ;  8,  Barton  ;  and  4,  the  Paly  of  six,  Ac.,  as  the  Arms  of 
the  Gurdons  of  Assington  before  their  marriage  with  the  heiress  of  Brampton. 

2  M 


274 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


The  monuments  at  Assington  are  numerous  and  interesting,  and  one  especially,  of  coloured 
marbles,  erected  in  1648,  is  covered  with  armorial  insignia.  The  Quarterly  of  Eight,  already 
described,  appears  above  the  effigy  of  Brampton  Gurdon.  The  shield  above  that  of  his  wife, 
Elizabeth  Barrett,  as  described  in  the  Davy  MSS.,  is  Quarterly  of  nineteen:  1,  Barrett;  2,  Belhouse  ; 
3,  Braytoft ;  4,  Dyneley ;  5,  Fitzherbert ;  6,  Milo,  Earl  of  Hereford  ;  7,  De  Forte  ;  8,  Cheuduitt ; 
9,  Foscott  ;  10,  Marney  ;  11,  Bruyn  ;  12,  Comyn  ;  13,  Lytton ;  14,  Booth:  15,  Oake  ;  16, 
Weyland  ;  17,  Godmanston  ;  18,  Cavalere  ;  19,  Barrett,  as  before.  The  Crest,  differing  from  those 
depicted  in  the  MSS.,  is  Out  of  a  ducal  coronet  Or,  two  wings  erect  addorsed  Argent.  A  pencil 
drawing  of  this  exceptional  device  is  given  in  Harl.  MS.  1560. 

Other  coats  have  since  been  added.  The  Norfolk  Gordons  for  some  time  quartered  the 
Arms  cf  Dillingham,  whose  heiress  brought  considerable  estates  to  the  family ;  but  in  the  present 
day  they  simply  use  Brampton  quarterly  with  their  own  shield,  in  order  to  distinguish  their 
branch  from  the  Gurdons  of  Suffolk.  The  escutcheon  on  the  monument  of  Nathaniel  Gurdon, 
S.T.P ,  of  Assington,  who  died  in  1696,  has  thirty  quarterings,  many  of  which  are  now  so  much 
defaced  as  to  be  almost  unrecognisable. 


Will  of 


John  Gurdon  senr  of  Dedham  in  London  Dioces  by  his  last  Will  dated  13  Aug:  Ano  1487, 


first  bequeathed  his  soule  to  ye  Allmighty  God  S1  Mary  ye  Virgin  &  all  y®  Saints,  A  his  Body 

to  be  Buryed  in  ye  North  Portch  of  ye  Church  of  S1  Mary  ye  Virgin  of  Dedham.  Also  gave  to 
y®  High  Altar  of  ye  same  Church  for  his  Tiths  forgotten  20s.  And  gives  for  ye  building  of  ye 
Tabernacle  of  S*  John  y®  Evangelist  in  ye  foresd  Church  20  Marks.  And  willeth  that  his  Executors 
shall  buy  one  marble  stone  for  his  Grave,  and  procure  one  fit  Presbiter  to  celebrate  masses  for 
his  Soule,  &  for  ye  Souls  of  John  Gurdon  ct  Joane  his  wife  parents  of  him  ye  sd  testator,  &  for  y® 
Soules  of  Margaret  his  owne  wife  &  of  Joane  &  Alice  his  daughters,  in  ye  sd  church  of  Dedham 
by  ye  space  of  3  yeares,  they  giving  to  him  a  competent  stipend.  And  gives  to  Matilda  his 

own  wife  201  sterling  &  4  woollen  clothes  containing  each  of  them  in  length  24  yards,  &  all  her 

own  utensills  wh  she  had  before  he  (ye  testator)  maried  her.  And  willeth  that  John  Gurdon 

his  son  shall  have  his  tenement  in  wh  y«  same  John  (y®  Son)  now  liveth,  &  one  acre  lying  in 
a  large  meadow  called  Lufkyns  meadow,  on  ye  condition  that  ye  foresd  John  shall  pay  therefore 
201  in  mailer  following,  viz1  : — to  Agnes  daughter  of  y®  testators  son  Robert  Gurdon  40s,  also  to 
Robert  son  of  ye  sd  Robert  40s,  and  to  Margaret  daughter  of  ye  sd  Robert  40s.  And  if  any  of  y® 

sd  3  children  shall  die  before  it  be  16  years  old,  then  y®  part  of  y®  deceased  child  shall  be  equally 

divided  between  y®  other  two  surviving.  And  if  all  y®  sd  3  children  shall  die  before  they  be  16 

years  old,  then  ye  sd  61  given  to  them,  shall  be  distributed  in  pious  uses  &  in  works  of  charity 

for  ye  health  or  welfare  of  his  own  soule  &  of  their  souls  tfe  for  all  y®  souls  to  whom  he  is 

obliged  (teneor).  And  in  like  maner  that  his  sd  son  John  shall  pay  to  Joane  daughter  of  his 

same  sonne  John  40s,  &  to  John  y®  eldest  son  of  his  fores'1  son  John  40s  and  to  John 

younger  son  of  his  forest  son  John  40s.  And  if  all  ye  fores'1  3  children  shall  die  before  y®  sd  age 


GURDON  OF  ASSINGTON. 


275 


then  y®  foresd  6l  shall  be  distributed  by  his  executors  in  y®  maner  abovesd.  And  likewise 

81  y'  residue  of  y®  sd  mony,  to  be  expended  by  his  executors  in  y*  same  maner.  Also 

willeth  that  y®  foresd  John  his  son  shall  have  his  tenem1  in  wh  ye  sd  testator  now  inhabiteth 

paying  therefore  30'  sterling  in  maner  following  viz  :  to  Witt  Gordon  son  of  y®  sd  testator 

20’,  And  10  marks  for  making  of  y®  abovesd  tabernacle  in  a  better  forme.  And  ye  residue  thereof 

viz :  5  marks  to  be  distributed  and  expended  for  his  Soule  &  for  ye  Soules  to  whom  he  is  obliged. 

Also  he  gives  to  y®  fores*1  William  his  son  all  his  tenem1  called  Ramys  in  Dedham  and  all  maner 

of  things  pertaining  to  ye  arts  both  of  a  Weaver  &  ffuller,  and  all  his  own  utensills,  except  one 

little  chest  wh  he  gives  to  Agnes  daughter  of  his  aforesd  son  Robert.  Also  except  12  pieces  of 
plate  wh  he  orders  to  be  equally  devided  between  ye  foresd  3  children  of  his  sd  son  Robert  A 
ye  foresd  3  children  of  his  sd  son  John.  Also  except  One  Table  called  y®  Dowble  Cownter  wb  he 

orders  to  be  sold  A  that  ye  money  be  disposed  for  his  soule.  Also  gives  to  his  sd  son  Robert 

all  his  Tenem1  late  of  Hen:  Vyne,  &  one  ffield  late  of  John  Taston  lying  in  Dedham,  &  all  his 
Tenem1  called  Bodys  in  Langham.  And  willeth  that  his  sd  son  John  shall  have  5  roods  of  meadow 
called  Snowes  meadow  lying  in  West  meadow,  And  that  his  sd  son  Rob1  shall  have  3  roods  of 
meadow  lying  in  Easthows  meadow  to  hold  to  them  A  their  heirs  in  maner  underwritten,  viz : — 
that  his  sd  sons  John  A  Robert  shall  keep  his  Anniversary  for  20  yeares  next  after  his  death  ;  in 
ye  first  yeare  of  his  aforesd  term  to  be  disbursed  in  his  funerall  exequies  A  other  works  of  Charity 
20s,  &  in  every  year  next  during  y®  sd  terme  108.  And  gives  to  his  sd  son  Robert  to  pay  his 
y®  said  Robts  debts  13'  sterling  Also  willeth  that  his  sd  son  Rob1  may  have  for  his  life  all 
y*  easements  of  him  y®  sd  Rob1  in  y®  Dying  house  called  y®  Whodliows  scituate  betw:  y®  foresd 
Tenem1  in  wh  his  sd  son  John  now  dwelleth  &  y®  Gate  called  Howegate  for  working  ye  art  of 

Dying  in  y®  same  house  of  his  proper  goods  with  liberty  of  ingress  &  egress  as  he  shall  please 

except  at  such  times  in  wb  his  sd  son  John  hath  any  Dying  work  in  ye  same  house.  Provided 
that  his  sd  son  Rob1  shall  bear  a  third  part  of  y®  charge  of  ye  repaires  of  y®  sd  house  A  apurt 
during  his  life  &  receiving  y®  third  part  of  y®  profits  thereof  if  any  other  in  ye  meane  time 
shall  have  any  Dying.  And  willeth  that  Thomas  Martyn  junr  son  of  Tho:  Martyn  senr  of  Wrabnase 
&  Isabella  his  wife  daughter  of  ye  testator  may  have  all  his  tenem1  A  apurtenans  called  Bowyers 
lying  in  the  town  of  Sutton  on  condition  that  if  ye  sd  Tho:  Martin  senr  shall  infeoff  y®  sd  Isabell 
in  so  many  lands  &  tenem18  as  shall  be  of  y®  yearly  value  of  his  sd  tenem1  called  Bowyers.  And 
if  ye  sd  Tho:  Martin  seiT  shall  not  do  so  then  ye  sd  tenem1  called  Bowyers  to  remaine  to  y®  sd  Isabell 
her  heirs  &  Assigns  for  ever.  Also  he  gives  to  William  Gurdon  his  Brother  yearly  6s  8d  for  6  years 
towards  y®  ffarme  of  his  mansion  house.  Also  to  Stephen  Lufkyn  his  servant  40s.  The  rest  of 
his  Goods  he  giveth  to  ye  foresd  John  &  Robert  his  sons  to  dispose  for  y®  health  of  his  soule 
as  they  shall  see  best.  Wh  John  A  Robert  he  maketh  executors  of  this  his  will.  And  Mr  John 
Barfoot  vicar  of  y®  foresd  Church  Supervisor  of  y®  same  Testament.  In  witness  whereof  he  hereto  set 
his  Seale,  witness  Witt  Mynot,  Steph:  Lufkin,  John  Hunt,  Ac.  This  will  was  Proved  before  John 
Aleyn  als  Kerver  Bachellor  of  Lawes  Comissary  of  Thomas  Bishop  of  London,  A  y®  Administration 
of  y®  goods  comitted  to  y®  executors  within  named,  Dat  14  Janu:  Aiio  Dni  within  written  1487. 

From  the  Gurdon  Papers. 

In  his  will,  Lambeth  Registers,  Morton  II,  fo.  13(  dated  20th  March  1498,  William  Mynot  of 
Ipswich,  the  above-named  witness,  desires  “to  be  buried  bifore  the  chapel  dore  of  oure  Lady  of 
grace,  the  grave  to  be  coulyd  w1  a  stone  aftre  John  Gordonys  in  the  porche  of  the  churche 
of  Dedham.” 


2  M2 


276 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  ifobtt  dmrtrnn,  1504. 

John  Gordon  of  Dedham  in  ye  Diocess  of  London,  by  his  Will  dated  3  Apr:  1594  first 
bequeaths  his  soule  to  Almighty  God  our  blessed  Lady  St  Mary  ye  Virgin  &  to  all  ye  holy  company 
in  Heaven.  His  Body  to  be  Buryed  in  ye  Church  or  Church  yard  of  our  Lady  in  Dedham.  And 
gives  to  ye  High  Altar  of  yc  sd  Church  for  Tithes  &  offerings  negligently  forgotten  &  witholden 
266  8d.  And  to  ye  Grey  ffrerys  of  Yepyswych  for  a  trentall  to  be  said  for  his  Soule  10s.  And 
to  ye  White  ffrerys  of  Yeypswich  for  a  trentall  10?.  And  to  y°  Black  ffrerys  of  ye  same  town  10® 
for  a  trentall.  And  to  ye  Grey  ffrerys  of  Colchester  for  a  trentall  108.  And  willeth  that  there 
be  given  &  disposed  at  his  Burying  day  11'.  And  that  there  be  disposed  in  Aimes  deedes  to 
y°  poore  for  me  at  my  Seven  day  51  &  also  at  his  thirty  day  4'.  And  ordreth  a  secular  Priest 
to  sing  for  ye  soules  of  himself  friend  &  all  Christian  soulis  in  y®  sd  church  of  Dedham  by 
ye  space  of  2  years,  the  sd  Priest  to  have  for  his  stipend  20  marks.  And  gives  to  ye  making 

of  a  new  Isle  of  ye  North  side  of  y°  sd  Church  of  our  Lady  in  Dedham  401  on  condition  that 

ye  Parishioners  will  beare  ye  charges  to  finish  ye  sd  Isle  or  else  ye  sd  401  to  be  disposed  for  ye 
pleasure  of  God  &  profit  of  his  soule  &  all  his  friends  souls.  And  gives  to  ye  building  of 
ye  Steeple  in  Dedham  101  to  be  paid  out  of  ye  next  setting.  And  orders  that  his  executors  buy 
a  Vestment  for  Priest  Decon  &  Subdecon  with  a  Cope  of  White  cloth  of  Tissew.  And  gives  to 
ye  Prioress  &  Convent  of  Campsey  for  a  Dirigi  &  masse  to  be  sunge  for  his  soule  &  all  his 
friends  souls  26s  8d.  And  orders  that  his  executors  shall  observe  his  Year  day  by  ye  space  of 

12  years,  disposing  in  costs  &  charges  ye  first  yeare  26s  8d  &,  every  yeare  after  13s  4d  for 
ye  sd  }2  years.  And  bequetlis  to  Joane  his  wife  301.  And  willeth  that  Joane  his  wife  &  John 
his  son  part  equally  his  houshold  as  in  Brass  Pewter  Latton  Coper  Spitts  Andirons  &  Trevets.  And 
ordreth  that  all  clothes  belonging  to  his  Body  <fc  Bedding  be  parted  equally  between  Joane  his  wife 
&  John  his  son.  And  his  Jewells  to  be  equally  divided  between  Joane  his  wife  &  John  his 
son,  except  yt  John  his  son  shall  have  4  of  ye  best  siluer  spoones  &  2  of  ye  lightest.  And  gives 
to  John  his  son  100’  starling  at  y,!  age  of  20  years,  &  if  ye  sd  John  die  within  ye  age  of  20 

years  then  ye  sd  mony  to  be  disposed  by  y°  discretion  of  his  executors  for  his  soul  and  his 
friends  soules.  And  gives  to  his  son  John  his  house  wh  Witt  Clerk  dwellcth  in  with  ye  tcnemt 

called  Bernards  &  ye  lands  meadows  and  Grove  called  Woodgate  lands  with  Lovebrigg  meadow,  on 

condition  that  Joane  his  wife  shall  have  ye  nether  part  of  ye  foresa  house  that  Witt  Clerke 
dwelleth  in,  with  Parlour  Chamber  &  Soler  for  terme  of  her  life.  And  gives  to  John  his  son  his 

place  wu  he  'yf  testator  dwelleth  in  with  ye  woodhouse  &  y®  Leygh  thereto  belonging,  And  his 

tenenV  called  Cancelerys  (Chancellors)  &  his  meadow  that  was  Thomas  Gurdons,  Also  an  acre  of 
meadow  lying  in  Broad  meadow,  Also  5  roods  of  meadow  lying  in  Halkys  meadow  late  called 
Snowes.  And  gives  to  John  his  son  his  tenemt  lying  in  Ardelegh  called  Beres  tenem1  with 
y®  lands  called  Schelheth,  Also  a  field  called  Pett  field  with  a  lane  called  Perkyn’s  lane,  And 
his  lands  &  Grove  in  Langham  called  Aldowennys,  on  condition  that  if  ye  sd  John  die  within 
ye  age  of  20  years  then  all  ye  foresd  tenemts  lands  meadows  &  Groves  be  sold  by  his  executors, 
except  his  wifes  part  above  rehersed  for  terme  of  her  life,  &  y»  mony  of  ye  sd  premisses  to  be 
disposed  by  y*  discression  of  his  executors  to  y®  most  pleasure  to  God  &  profit  of  his  soule  & 
all  his  friends  souls.  And  gives  to  John  his  son  his  Sprewse  table  in  y®  Hall.  And  to  Cristion 
his  daughter  20’  sterling  at  y®  age  of  20  years.  And  if  y®  sd  Cristian  die  within  ye  age  of  20 
years  then  y®  sd  mony  to  remaine  to  Joane  his  wife  &  John  his  son.  And  willeth  that  Joane 
his  wife  shall  have  after  his  (ye  testators)  death  y®  keeping  <k  rule  of  Christion  his  daughter  «k 
of  y®  20'  beuqeathed  to  y*  sd  Cristion  till  y*  sd  Cristion  be  20  years  old.  And  ordereth  &  requireth 


GURDON  OF  ASSINGTON. 


277 


all  his  ffeoflfees  A  cofeofFees  in  all  his  lands  tenemts  meadows  pastures  woods  &  Groves  rents  or 
services  that  they  shall  deliver  a  sufficient  estate  &  seasin  of  &  in  such  lands  tenemts  A  premisses 
when  they  shall  be  required  by  his  executors.  The  residue  of  all  his  Goods  he  comitts  to 

ye  disposall  &  discretion  of  my  executors  to  be  disposed  to  y°  most  pleasure  of  God  A  weale  of 

his  soule  his  friends  souls  &  all  Christian  soules.  And  makes  for  his  executors  John  Gurdon  his 
son,  Stephen  Dunton  &  Wirt  Clerke  of  Dedham,  &  ye  sd  Steph:  Dunton  A  Wirt  Clerke  each  of 
them  to  have  for  their  labour  4l  starling.  And  supervisors  Master  John  Barfoott  Vicar  of  Dedham, 
A  Thomas  Woodhowse  of  ye  same.  Witnesses  Tho:  Grenlyng,  Wifi  Aleyn  Ac.  In  witness  whereof 
he  set  his  seale.  This  will  was  proved  21  May  Ano  1504  at  Lambeth  before  Wifi  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury,  ye  sd  John  Gurdon  ye  testator  deceased  having  Goods  in  divers  Dioceses  of  ye  Province 

of  Canterbury.  I  suppose  it  was  Arch  Bp.  Warham,  his  Armes  at  ye  bottom  of  vu  seale  of  ye  office, 

is  first  ye  Arms  of  ye  A:  Bishoprick  of  Canterbury  impaled  with  his  own,  viz.  a  fess,  in  chief  a 
Goat’s  head  erased  &  in  base  3  escallops  shells  2.  1. 

Abstract  from  the  Gurdon  Papers.  P.C.C.  5  Holgrave. 


Mill  of  William  Brampton,  1561, 

Wirt  Brampton  of  Norwich  Esq.  by  his  will  dated  9  July  1561  bequeaths  his  soule  to 

Almighty  God  and  to  all  ye  Company  of  Heaven,  A  his  bociy  to  buried  in  ye  church  or  church 

yard  where  he  shall  die.  And  orders  his  executors  to  give  in  almes  to  ye  poore  in  Sfc  Stepens 
parish  20s  to  pray  for  his  soule.  And  gives  to  every  Lazar  house  without  Norwich  Gates  20d  a 
piece.  And  gives  to  ye  poore  people  in  Attilborough  10s.  And  gives  to  his  son  Wirt  Brampton 
his  Manor  called  Chaunticleres  in  Attelborough  A  all  lands  &  one  close  called  Burtons  in  Attilborough 
to  have  &  to  hold  to  ye  heires  males  of  his  body,  and  for  lack  of  such  issue  male  to  Thomas 
Brampton  his  Own  son,  and  for  lack  of  issue  male  of  ye  sd  Thomas  to  remaine  to  Thomas  Brampton 
of  Kings  Lynne  &  to  ye  heires  male  of  his  body  A  for  lack  of  such  issue  to  remaine  to  Henry 

Norris  his  own  daughters  son  &  to  ye  heires  male  of  his  body  &  for  lack  of  such  issue  of 

ye  sd  Henry  to  remaine  to  ye  right  heires  of  him  ye  sd  Wirt  Brampton  ye  testator.  And  gives 

to  ye  sd  Wirtm  Brampton  his  son  &  to  Elizabeth  his  wife  his  mantion  place  in  Letton  with  all 

ye  lands  Ac.  And  willeth  that  Ellinor  his  own  wife  shall  have  all  ye  North  part  of  his  messuage 
in  Norwich  in  ye  parish  of  St  Stephen  A  Sl  Peter  with  ye  rnoyety  of  ye  ffield  gardin  &  liberty 
of  outegate  A  ingate  at  her  will  and  pleasure.  And  that  Wirt  Brampton  his  son  shall  occupy 
ye  other  halfe  of  ye  sd  messuage  A  gardin.  And  gives  to  Elinor  his  wife  his  close  without 
S1  Giles  Gate  in  Norwich  wh  he  purchased  of  Mr  John  Appleyard.  And  gives  to  his  son  Thomas 
his  ground  called  Chappell  a  field  Croft  containing  11  acres.  And  makes  his  sons  executors  to 

do  for  ye  pleasure  of  God  A  profit  of  his  soule.  Proved  before  Matthew  Archbishop  of  Canterbury 

27  June  1563.  Gurdon  Papers. 


Still  flf  William  Brampton,  1567- 

The  last  will  and  testanA  of  Wirt  Brampton  of  Letton  dated  5  May  9  Eliz.  1567.  Whereby 
he  gives  unto  his  Brother  Thomas  Brampton  &  his  heirs  all  his  copy-hold  lands  in  Attleborough 
A  Besthorpe.  And  gave  to  his  son  Gurdon  A  Amy  his  wife  the  Tenement  he  purchased  of  .  .  . 
Wright  with  all  ye  lands  both  flree  A  bond  to  ye  same  belonging  to  have  A  hold  to  them  A  to 
ye  heirs  of  their  bodies  &  for  want  of  such  issue  then  to  ye  heirs  males  of  him  ye  s'1  \\  itt 
Brampton  forever.  Upon  condition  that  his  sd  son  Gurdon  A  Amy  his  wife  shall  make  such 


278 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


assurance  as  may  be  devised  unto  ye  Inhabitants  of  Letton  for  ever  of  their  right  for  their  cattell 
going  in  a  close  called  Somehouse,  with  ye  mowing  it  enjoying  of  ye  first  crop  of  24  acres  called 
Somehouse  meadowes,  paying  no  more  than  they  have  heretofore  payed  ;  viz.  for  a  milch  cowe 

from  Sl  Georges  day  to  Lamas  1 0d,  it  to  ye  end  of  harvest  12d;  And  for  a '  two  yearling  from 

S*  Georges  day  to  Lamas  6d  &  to  ye  end  of  Harvest  8d  ;  And  for  a  yearling  from  Sl  Georges 
day  to  Lamas  4d,  it  to  ye  end  of  Harvest  Gd  ;  And  for  every  acre  of  ye  24-  acres  of  meadow  12J. 

This  assurance  to  be  done  by  his  executrs  at  his  cost  it  charges.  And  if  his  sd  son  it  Amy  his 

wife  will  not  performe  or  agree  to  this  assurance  making,  that  then  he  wills  that  ' his  gift  herein 
&  all  other  that  hereafter  shall  be  menconed  giveu  or -bequeathed  shall  be  no  gift  but  void  to 
his  sd  son  &  daughter.  So  that  then  he  gives  all  the  same  to  his  Brother  Tho:  Brampton  it  his 

heirs  forever  to  maintainc  ye  sd  Inhabitants  of  Letton  in  their  sd  right  &  Custom  in  Somehouse 

it  ye  24  acres  of  meadow  before  mentioned.  And  if  his  sd  son  it  daughter  shall  vex  or  disquiet 
bis  executors  or  not  suffer  them  to  carry  his  Goods  it  chattells  out  of  his  house  &  ground  within 
Letton,  or  break  it  make  void  a  lease  wh  he  made  to  .  .  .  fiord,  Then  all  his  gifts  to  his  sd  son 

it  daughter  Gurdon  shall  be  void.  Also  he  gives  to  his  sd  son  it  daughter  all  his  copyhold  lands 

in  Letton  Shipdham  it  Cranew:  upon  ye  fores'*  conditions.  And  gives  them  his  Cart  it  Plough 
with  ye  horse  &  furniture  thereto  belonging,  it  his  Bed  in  ye  hall  chamber  with  ye  furniture  thereof 
upon  ye  same  conditions.  Item  he  gives  to  ffraunces  his  wife  20  of  his  best  milch  neate,  it  3  of 
his  best  geldings,  all  her  dewells,  and  all  ye  Plate  that  was  her  own  before  he  married  her,  with 
a  covered  silver  pott  guilt,  &  ye  sheep  that  Mr  Prentise  hath,  &  10  of  his  best  Beds  unbequeathed 
with  ye  furniture  of  them,  &  all  other  Household  stuff  wh  she  had  before  he  married  with 
her.  The  10  featherbeds  with  ye  furniture  thereof  to  be  all  ye  stuff  of  that  sort.  Item  he  gives 
to  Dennys  Showldham  101  to  be  imployed  for  her  use  till  she  be  married  or  come  to  20  years 
of  age.  Item  he  gives  to  his  brother  Thomas  Brampton  his  Bason  it  ewer  of  silver,  it  a  Tester  of 
a  Bed  Imbroydered  with  his  own  Armes  &  his  mothers.  All  other  his  goods  &  chattells  he  gives 
to  ffraunces  his  wife  A  to  his  Brother  Tho:  Brampton  to  use  at  their  pleasure  performing  this 
his  last  will  &  testam*.  Desiring  Mr  Thomas  Sowthwell  Esq.  to  be  Supervisor  to  whome  he  gives 
51  to  assist  &  ayde  my  executors  especially  in  y®  assurance  for  yc  Custom  of  ye  Inhabitants  of 
Letton  in  Somehouse  &  ye  24  acres  of  meadow  if  need  shall  so  require. 

The  Probat  is  not  here  expressed,  it  being  but  a  copy  of  so  much  as  concerns  Somehous. 
This  will  was  after  made  voyd  by  y®  Award  of  6  ffeb.  15  Eliz.  1572. 

Gurdon  Papers. 


MtU  of  Hobnrt  ©nrboit,  1578. 

Bobert  Gurdon  of  Assington  in  Suffolk  Esq.  by  his  Will  dated  3  Apr.  An.  1578,  20  Eliz. 
Bequeths  his  Soule  to  God,  trusting  only  to  be  saved  by  ye  death  &  passion  of  our  only  Saviour  Jesus 
Christ.  And  gives  to  Rose  his  wife  100’  per  ah  to  be  paid  half  yearly  by  John  Gurdon  his  son 
in  ye  name  of  her  Joynture  in  full  of  all  her  right  of  Dower  out  &  of  all  his  manors  lands  & 
tenem18.  And  gives  to  yB  sd  Rose  his  wife  yu  chamber  wherein  he  lyeth  it  ye  iner  chamber 

next  thereto  during  her  life  with  all  such  furniture  in  y'  sd  Chambers  as  shall  serve  her  necessary 

use  &  so  much  of  his  Plate  as  shall  be  in  value  20  marks  &  1001  of  money  to  be  paid  her 
within  2  years  after  his  decease  And  gives  to  Elizabeth  Waldegrave  his  daughter  all  his  Lease 

&  terme  of  years  yet  come  of  it  in  ye  Parsonages  of  Much  Coggeshall  it  Little  Coggeshall  in 

Essex.  And  gives  to  ye  three  children  of  his  sd  daughter  viz.  Tho:  Waldegrave  John  Waldegrave 
it  Elizabeth  to  each  of  them  20*  to  be  paid  unto  his  son  Tho:  Waldegrave  their  father  to  be 


GURDON  OF  ASSINGTON. 


279 


employed  -  to  ye  best  advantage  of  y'  sd  3  children  untill  they  shall  be  fitt  to  have  ye  same.  And 

gives  to  John  Gurdon  his  son  all  those  Tenemts  lands  «fc  hereditam4"  v"  he  lately  purchased  of 

John  Wyncoll  of  Waldingfielde  to  have  and  hold  to  him  for  term  of  his  life  &  then  to  remaine 
unto  Brampton  Gurdon  y°  son  of  his  sd  son  John  Gurdon  cb  to  ye  heires  of  his  body  &  for 
lack  of  such  heires  then  to  remaine  to  ye  right  heires  of  him  yc  sd  Rob4  Gurdon  forever.  And 
gives  to  his  sister  Wyncoll  101.  And  to  Mary  ye  wife  of  John  Glamefilde  10’.  And  to  ffrances 
ye  wife  of  John  Duke  61  13s  4d.  And  to  Rob4  Lawrence  51.  And  to  Mr  Welche  minister  of  Little 
Waldingfild  5*.  And  to  Mr  Knewstub,  to  Mr  Grokes  &  to  Mr  Birde  each  of  them  40s.  And  to 

y®  poore  in  Assington  &  there  aboute  201  to  be  paid  within  6  years  after  his  death.  And  gives 

to  his  daughter  Appleton  dor  ye  use  of  her  son  Isaack  Appleton  20  marks.  And  gives  to 
Tho:  Jervis  his  serv4  101.  And  to  Will  ffoker  his  servant  40s.  And  to  John  Pullen  his 
servant  40’.  All  ye  l’est  of  his  Goods  &  chattells  he  gives  unto  John  Gurdon  his  son,  whom  he 
maketh  his  sole  executor,  p  mee  Robertu  Gurdon.  Witnesses  Tho:  Crooke,  John  Knewstub,  John 
Hanna.  It  was  Proved  at  London  12  May  An:  1579  before  Will  Drury  Dr  of  Lawes,  Comissary 
of  ye  Prerogative  Court  of  Canterbury.  Gurdon  Papers,  P.C.C.  19  Bakon. 

By  his  Inquisition  post  mortem,  7th  April,  21st  Elizabeth,  Robert  Gurdon  was  found  to  have 
held  the  Manors  of  Assington,  Shimplingford,  Series,  Stratton  and  of  Rousliall  in  Clopton. 


Willi  of  (Blijabctl)  JSarrrtt,  1594. 

Elizabethe  Barrett  widowe,  late  wife  of  Edward  Barrett  esquire,  27  May  364b  Elizabeth.  My 
bodye  to  be  revereutlie  and  comelie  buried  in  the  vaulte  in  Alveley  churche  where  my  late 
husband  lyeth.  All  my  plate,  lynnen,  carpetts  &c.  to  be  bestowed  by  my  executor  as  in  a 
Schedule  or  Inventory  I  have  appoynted.  I  give  one  hundred  poundes  to  my  said  executor  for 
the  payment  of  my  debts,  dischardge  of  my  fuSalls  and  in  keepinge  of  my  howshold  and  familie 
one  moneth  next  after  my  decease,  so  as  my  servauntes  may  have  some  respite  to  prouide  places 
where  to  bestowe  them  selues.  To  Mr  Sandes  (and  other  ministers  each)  tenn  pounds  as  a  testimony 
of  my  care  to  doe  some  good  in  the  church  of  god  and  to  the  professors  of  his  most  holie 
word.  I  bequeath  to  my  welbeloued  sister  Anne  Borlace  wydowe  sixe  silver  frute  dishes  hauiuge 
the  armes  of  my  father  graven  vppon  them.  To  the  poore  of  Alvethley  the  somes  of  twentye 
poundes,  whereof  Joane  Cole  myne  old  servaunt  shall  have  five,  and  the  residue  to  be  bestowed 
amongst  certeiune  poore  wydowes,  wherein  my  desire  is  that  the  most  godlye  and  aged  shalbe 

therewith  most  relieued.  To  the  poore  people  at  Braye,  at  Barham  in  Sufi'.,  at  Coddenham,  at 

Brendwood  in  Essex  &c.  To  my  sonne  Bacon  and  my  good  daughter  his  wife  one  hundred  poundes 
to  be  made  into  sundry  percells  of  plate  as  it  shall  best  like  them  as  a  testimonie  of  my  unfeined 
good  will  and  loue  to  ward  es  them.  Vnto  Phillip  Bacon  sonne  of  my  daughter  Helene  twentie 
poundes.  And  vnto  Nathan iell  Bacon  another  of  her  sonnes  twentie  poundes.  And  to  Jane  Bacon 
her  daughter  sixe  and  twentie  poundes  thirtene  shillings  fower  pence  to  make  her  a  bason  and 

ewer  of  siluer  with  it.  I  bequeath  to  Elizabethe  Gurden  daughter  of  my  sonne  Brampton  Garden 

esquire  fiftie  poundes  to  buy  her  a  chaine  and  some  Juells.  And  to  Amy  Gurden  an  other  of 
his  daughters  twentie  poundes.  And  to  Judith  Gurden  another  of  his  daughters  twentie  poundes. 
Alsoe  I  bequeath  to  John  Corbett  sonne  of  my  sonne  in.lawe  Thomas  Corbett  esquire  six  and 
twentie  poundes  thirtene  shillings  fower  pence  to  make  him  a  bason  and  ewer  of  siluer  and  to 
Elizabethe  Corbett  his  sister  twentie  poundes.  I  bequeath  to  my  cosen  and  god  daughter  Mrs 
Elizabeth  Riche  tenn  poundes.  My  further  will  and  minde  is  that  myne  executor  shall  disburse 


280 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


the  sonic  of  two  hundred  poundes  towardes  the  purchasinge  certaine  landes  for  the  erecting  of  a 
free  Grammer  Schole  within  the  parish  of  Alveley  and  the  raayntennce  of  a  godlie  discret  and 
able  scholemaster  there  to  be  placed  for  the  teachinge  of  poore  mens  children,  and  that  my 
executor  shall  make  godlie  and  necessarie  orders  and  constitutions  for  the  good  gouernment  of  said 
Schole  master  and  Schollars.  My  late  dere  and  blessed  husbande  Mr  Barrett  had  some  speech 
withe  me  that  I  shoulde  give  of  the  profittes  of  his  leases,  mannors,  messuages  &c.  in  Essex  vnto 
Humfrcy  Foster,  then  esquire  and  sithens  made  Knight,  then  having  married  one  of  my  said 
husbands  daughters,  the  some  of  twoe  liundereth  poundes.  And  vnto  Ann  Barrett  daughter  of 
Charles  Barrette  esquier  deceased  two  lmndered  poundes.  And  vnto  Walter  Barrett  one  of  the 
sonnes  of  the  said  Charles  one  liundered  poundes  more.  In  performance  of  which  speeche  I  bequeath 
vnto  the  said  Sir  Humfrey  Foster,  Ann  Barrett  and  Walter  Barrett,  woods,  underwoodes,  groves, 
coppices  and  hedgerowes  (specified)  to  be  by  them  felled  and  carried  away  in  full  recompence 
satisfaction  and  paymeute  of  the  said  sonies.  Provided  neuerthe  lesse  that  if  Edward  Barratt  Esquire, 
sonne  and  lieire  of  the  sayde  Charles  Barrett,  shall  paye  the  said  seuerall  somes  of  money,  then 
my  will  is  that  the  said  Edward  shall  bane  the  said  woodes  before  anie  other  person.  I  bequeath 
vnto  my  good  and  lovingc  freinde  Frauncis  Barhe  gent,  six  score  poundes  according  to  a  like 
request  to  me  made  by  my  late  husband  who  loved  the  said  Frauncis  very  well.  And  if  my 
executor  shall  refuse  to  paye  said  some  then  I  give  vnto  the  said  Frauncis  Panic  the  woodes  <tc. 
now  growinge  in  Donmowe  grove  and  in  hedgerowes  in  Alveley  &c.  in  Essex.  I  give  vnto  the 
sayed  Edward  Barrett  all  my  bruinge  vesselles,  my  copper  in  the  bruhowse,  my  horse  mill  &c.  at 
the  end  of  my  lease  of  Belhowse.  To  Fraunces  Prynne  daughter  of  John  Prynne  of  London  fortie 

shillinges.  I  ordayne  my  lovinge  sonn  in  lawe  Edward  Bacon  executor.  And  if  it  shall  happen 

that  the  said  Edward  Bacon  refuse  or  departe  this  life  I  make  my  lovinge  sonn  in  lawe  Brampton 
Gurden  executor  ;  and  if  he  refuse  or  departe  this  life  I  make  my  lovinge  sonn  in  lawe  Thomas 
Corbet  executor.  And  I  appoint  my  lovinge  kinsman  Roberte  Beale  and  my  good  freinds  John 
Butler,  Humfrey  Mitchell  and  Fraunces  Rafhe  Esquiers  ouerseers  of  the  same.  And  I  give  to 
euery  of  my  said  ouerseers  one  spowt  port  of  siluer  of  the  value  of  sixe  poundes  thirtene  shillinges 
fower  pence  a  peece  liavinge  the  Amies  of  Sr  Roberte  Litton  Knight  my  ffathier  graven  upon  them. 

An  Inuentorie  of  all  the  goods  of  Elizabethe  Barrett,  wydowe,  which  she  hath  given  to  her 
cliilderen,  servaunts  and  freindes  according  to  her  last  will  made  the  fower  and  twentith  daye  of 
June  1594. 

Imprims  I  give  vnto  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Gurden  my  best  siluer  basson  and  ewer  with 
three  white  siluer  saltes,  and  two  siluer  tankards,  and  the  great  broad  boule  with  the  couer  suteable 

vnto  the  bole.  Item  I  bequeath  vnto  her  a  silver  chaffing  dishe.  And  a  maudline  cuppe  whiche 

I  doe  commonlie  drinke  balme  water  in,  and  three  broade  silver  saucers  Ac.  I  further  bequeath 
vnto  her  one  table  clothe  of  damaske,  and  one  square  bord  clothe  of  damaske  one  eupbord  cloth 
of  damask  and  one  towell  of  damaske  before  meate  and  one  towell  after  meate,  with  two  chamber 
towells  of  damaske  and  one  dozen  and  a  halfe  of  damaske  napkens  &c.  I  further  bequeathe  vnto 
my  daughter  Gurden  the  standinge  bedsteed  in  the  best  efiabr  at  Belhowse  with  all  the  furniture 
belonging  vnto  it  that  is  to  saye,  the  fetherbedd,  the  bolster,  a  payer  of  blanketts,  a  payer  of 
pillowes,  a  tawnye  rugge,  a  tawnye  silke  counterpoynte  lyned  with  tawnye  bayes,  the  tester  and 
vallence  of  clothe  of  gold,  with  a  fringe  cf  tawny  silke  and  gould,  five  curteynes  of  tawnye 
silke,  three  curteyne  roddes,  a  silke  quesshen  pillowe  imbroydered,  three  curteynes  of  greene 
buckcrim  for  the  windowe  and  two  curteyne  rods.  I  ffurther  bequeath  vnto  her  the  standinge 
bedsted  in  the  Seeled  chamber  at  Belhowse  with  a  payer  of  pillowes  a  blewe  rugge  and 
the  best  coverlet  of  orras  vsed  there  Ac.,  the  tester  and  valence  of  blewe  and  yeallow 


GURDON  OF  ASSINGTON. 


281 


imbrodered,  five  curteynes  of  blewe  mocadoe,  &c.,  etc.  I  further  bequeath  vnto  her  in  the 
midle  tower  chambr  at  Belhowse  the  standinge  bedsted  &c.  I  bequeath  vnto  her  the 
Spannish  bedsted  in  the  gallerye  chamber  next  the  seeled  chamber  at  Belhowse,  with  the 
fetherbed  &c.  a  couerlitt  of  tapistry  and  one  of  the  newe  campies.  Ynto  my  daughter  Gurde  the 
standinge  bedsted  in  the  dyninge  chamber  at  Belhouse  &c.,  the  greate  buckerim  curteyne  that 
goeth  crosse  the  chamber,  with  the  curteyne  rod.  I  give  vnto  her  the  thre  peices  of  hangings  of 
arras  which  hangeth  in  the  hall  chamber  at  Belhowse,  the  greate  silke  chayer  imbrodered  in  the 
best  chamber,  the  great  turkey  worke  chayer  in  the  seeled  chamber,  and  one  low  bbacke  chayer 
of  orringe  tawney  lether  with  two  of  the  best  greate  backe  chayers  of  lether  here  at  Belhowse. 
I  further  give  vnto  my  daughter  Gurden  a  payer  of  creepers,  a  payer  of  andirons  &c.  in  the 
seeled  chamber.  I  give  vnto  her  fruite  dishes  of  silver  and  sixe  jellie  dishes  and  two  pewter 
stills.  I  further  give  vnto  my  said  daughters  Elizabeth  and  Ann  twelve  chestes  to  be  equallie 
deuided  betwixt  them.  Ann  Corbet  shall  have  ye  Cyp  cheest  in  the  best  chamber  at  Belhouse 
and  soe  my  daughter  Gurden  the  uexte,  and  soe  one  after  an  other  vntill  the  full  number  be 
accomplished.  I  further  give  vnto  my  daughter  Gurden  the  feild  bedsted  which  is  nowe  in  my 
chamber  at  London.  I  further  give  vnto  my  daughter  Ann  Corbett  my  silver  perfuminge  pann 
with  a  cover,  and  my  silver  scuiher  and  my  greates  maudlin  cuppe  and  three  broade  silver  saucers. 
I  further  give  vnto  her  in  the  best  chamber  at  Braye  a  feilde  bedsteed,  tester  and  valence  of 
greene  mokadoe  with  lace  and  fringe  of  orringe  tawney  silke.  I  further  give  vnto  her  in  the  hall 
chamber  at  Braye  a  Spauishe  bedsteed,  a  white  Irish  rugge,  a  campie  of  blewe  and  white  dornux 
and  the  greene  buckerim  curteyne  which  goeth  crosse  the  said  chamber.  I  give  vnto  her  my  other 
longe  carpett  of  Turkey  worke  with  the  cubbard  cloths  suteable  to  the  carpett,  the  worke  of 
cowcumbers  and  woodbinds.  And  the  turkey  worke  carpett  the  work  of  jelleflowers.  And  three 
peeces  of  old  orras  which  were  lianginges  for  my  chamber  att  London.  I  further  bequeath  vnto 
my  daughter  Corbett  one  table  clothe  of  Burdes  eyes.  I  give  vnto  her  a  payer  of  creepers  in 
Mr  Deeringes  chamber  at  Belhowse,  alsoe  a  payer  of  creepers  in  the  new  chamber  at  Braye,  and 
a  payer  of  creepers  in  the  chamber  within  the  greate  parlor  at  Bray.  I  give  her  one  hanginge 
pott  one  chaffer  to  heat  water  in  the  kitchen  and  the  beefe  kettle  at  Bray.  I  give  vnto 
Mr  Gyfford  the  bedsteed  which  is  now  in  the  gate  house  chamber  at  London  and  my  silver  pott 
which  I  doe  drinke  here  in. 

Probatum  apud  London  decimo  octavo  die  Octobris  1594  juramento  Edwardi  Bacon 
executoris.  ,  P.C.C.  71  Davy. 

The  will,  of  which  the  above  is  an  abstract,  covers  many  closely  written  folio  pages  at 
Somerset  House.  We  have  given  but  a  tythe  of  the  old  world  chattels  enumerated  in  the  Schedule 
or  Inventory  which  accompanies  it. 


Havinge  called  vppon  the  lord  for  the  assistance  of  his  most  gracious  and  holye  spiritt  to- 
direct  me  in  this  weightie  business,  I  John  Gurdon  of  Assington  in  the  Countye  of  Suff  esqr> 
the  sixte  day  of  December  1621,  doe  nowe  sett  downe  this  present  -writeinge  to  be  my  true  last 
will  and  testament.  First  as  becometh  a  good  Christian  I  doe  resigne  my  soule  and  spiritt 
jfsentlye  after  it  shalbe  disolved  out  of  this  mortall  bodye,  into  the  handes  of  allmightie  god. 
And  althoughe  I  doe  acknowledge  that  when  I  looke  onlye  unto  my  selfe  and  the  excess  of  my 


2  N 


282 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


transgressions  against  soe  gracious  a  ffather  I  doe  finde  there  my  estate  vncomfortable,  yett  liftinge 
vp  the  eyes  of  my  sowle  vnto  his  deare  and  onelie  sonne  Jesus  Christe  I  doe  remayne  in  that 
hope  that  putteth  by  all  discouragements  and  assureth  me  of  the  favor  and  love  of  god.  In  a 
former  will  I  had  made  my  sonne  Brampton  executor.  I  have  vpon  very  just  occasions  changed 
my  purpose  therein.  And  for  the  disposinge  of  my  worldly  goods  my  minde  is  that  my  granchilde 
John  Gurdon,  eldest  sonne  of  my  sonne  Brampton  Gurdon  by  his  first  wiefe,  shall  enioye  my 
fearme  lands  advowsions  tythes  and  heraditaments  in  Assington  pcell  of  the  late  priorye  of  Hatfeild 
Peverell  in  Essex,  which  I  did  lately  purchase  of  John  Winterflood  gent,  and  allsoe  Sowdens, 
Wardes  and  Wiggons  in  Assington  which  I  doe  houlde  for  yeares  yet  to  come  by  the  demise  of 
John  Winterflood  thelder.  Allsoe  messuage  in  Assington  purchased  of  Sr  Edwyn  Eiche  and 
messuage  called  Garlands  which  I  did  purchase  of  Sr  W  lliam  Waldegrave  Knight  the  elder,  and 
tenement  with  lands  I  purchased  of  William  Sydaye  the  elder  gent.  Allsoe  I  doe  giue  vnto  the 
said  John  Gurdon  my  pasture  groundes  and  woodes  called  Searles  and  Yawlie  woodes  in  Assington 
and  little  Cornard.  I  doe  likewise  giue  vnto  the  said  John  Gurdon  the  fearme  howse  alsoe 

purchased  of  Sir  William  Waldegrave  deceased  and  lands  called  Hitchcockes,  to  have  and  to  houlde 
all  sayde  messuages  Ac.  vnto  him  the  said  John  Gvrdon  his  heires  Ac.  for  ever.  I  doe  further 
giue  vnto  the  said  John  Gvrdon  lands  and  tenements  in  Ovington  neare  vnto  Clare  in  Suflf,  allsoe 
lands  in  Bullmere  co.  Essex.  My  leased  landes  which  I  boughte  of  the  children  of  Edward  Uamond 
A  of  John  Sidaye  in  Assington  likewise  I  giue  vnto  the  said  John  Gurdon,  and  tenement  called 
Yawley  howse  at  the  end  of  Yawlie  wood  and  my  fower  acres  of  meadowe  grounde  in  Wissington 
alias  Wiston  and  Naylond  which  I  boughte  of  John  Doggett.  And  I  would  earnestly  entreat 

my  sonne  Brampton  Gurdon,  even  as  he  would  have  the  love  and  favour  of  Allmightie  god,  that 
he  would  permitt  all  those  Mannors  Ac.  to  remayne  to  such  persons  as  are  expressed  in  certain 
Indentures  try  partite  made  betweene  me  the  sayd  John  Gurdon  and  Amye  my  wife  on  the  first 
parte,  Elizabeth  Barret  widow  Sr  Erne  Drury  Knight  and  others  of  the  second  parte,  and  the 
said  Brampton  Gurdon  my  sonne  on  the  third  parte,  bearinge  date  2  Feb.  30  Q.  Elizabeth,  Ac., 
and  as  my  said  sonne  long  sythence  a  little  before  his  entermariage  with  a  second  wife  did  by 
an  instrument,  bearing  date  the  25  June  1606,  wherein  he  did  solemplye  vowe  and  protest  before 
god  and  divers  others  that  vrere  psent,  that  is  to  saye  Thomas  Kempe  and  Thomas  Waldegrave 
esqrs  John  Knewstubb,  Henry  Sandes,  Thomas  Lovell  and  Thomas  Chambers  ministers  of  the  word 
of  god  and  Philip  Gostlinge  yeoman,  vnto  me  and  his  mother  that  he  would  not  make  frustrate  the . 
said  conveyance  of  the  estates  therein  limited,  except  it  were  to  make  a  joyncture  of  eight  score 

pounds  by  the  yeare,  all  which  lands  are  menconed  to  lye  in  Assington  and  adioynninge  townes 

and  in  Cogeshall  in  Essex  and  other  townes  neere.  Item  I  bequeath  vnto  Robert  Gurdon  my 
grandcliilde,  brother  to  said  John  Gurdon  of  the  Avhole  bloud,  my  messuages  Ac.  in  Letton, 
Cranworth  and  Shipdham  in  the  Countye  of  NorfF  and  to  the  heires  of  his  body,  and  for  defaulte 
of  such  issue  vnto  Edwarde  Gurdon  my  grandchild  the  whole  brother  vnto  the  said  Robert.  Item 
I  doe  giue  vnto  the  said  Edward  Gurdon  messuages  in  Letton  purchased  of  one  Thurborne  and 
of  one  George  Garrett  and  of  one  Hall  I  giue  vnto  my  aforenamed  grandchilde  Robert  Gurdon 
ffiftie  poundes,  vnto  sayd  Edward  Gurdon,  one  hundreth  poundes.  Vnto  my  good  friend  Mr 
Chambers  of  Assington,  clei'ke,  the  some  of  twenty  markes,  vnto  my  cosen  William  Playne  of 
Lavenham  gent  thirtye  poundes,  and  to  his  mother  Margarett  Playne  widowe  flortie  shillinges  to 
make  her  a  ringe.  Vnto  my  grandchilde  Brampton  Gurdon,  whome  my  said  sonne  had  by  his 
second  wiffe  Muriell  the  daughter  of  Marten  Sydley  esq1'  deceased,  all  my  houshould  stuff’  at  Letton, 
which  I  left  there  for  the  furnishing  thereof  -when  I  repayred  thether,  for  his  vse  vnto  my  said 

sonn  Brampton  Gurdon  his  ffather,  to  be  left  to  him  the  said  Brampton  the  younger  at  his  age 


GURDON  OF  ASSINGTON. 


28a 


of  fower  &  twentye  yeares  or  at  his  daye  of  marriage,  yf  he  shall  happen  to  marry  sooner.  I 
doe  giue  vnto  the  said  Muriell  the  some  of  twentie  povvndes  to  buye  her  a  gowne.  I  doe  give 
vnto  the  rest  of  my  sonne  Brampton  Gurdon  his  children  by  the  said  Muriell  excepting  Edmund 
twentie  poundes  a  peece  at  their  severall  ages  of  twentie  yeares.  All  the  rest  of  my  houshould 
stuffe  besids  that  which  I  left  at  Letton  for  my  vse  there,  whether  it  be  nowe  at  Assington  or 

sy  thence  conveyed  to  Wenham  or  anye  other  place,  and  all  my  plate  and  furniture,  and  allso 

my  furniture  of  houshold  &  plate  which  at  the  tyme  of  my  decease  shalbe  in  my  chamber 

wherein  I  doe  now  vsuallie  lye  and  keepe,  and  allso  the  furniture  in  the  Inner  Chamber  therevnto 

nexte  adioyninge,  I  doe  allso  giue  and  bequeathe  vnto  my  sayd  grandchilde  John  Gvrdon.  I  doe  giue 
vnto  the  poore  of  Assington  twentye  pounds.  I  make  the  aforenamed  John  Gvrdon  my  grandchilde 
sole  executor.  I  doe  allso  appoynte  Sr  Henry  Mildmaye  to  be  supervisor,  to  which  Sr  Henry 
Mildmay  I  doe  giue  ten  pounds  and  my  best  geldinge  at  his  owne  choice.  Allso  I  doe  appointe 
as  a  thinge  by  me  especiall  desired,  that  my  saide  grandchilde  John  Gurdon  will  make  some 
especiall  monument  in  Assington  churche  not  onlye  of  my  selfe  but  of  my  father  mother  and 
wife,  being  his  grandmother,  such  as  he  shall  thincke  meete  &  fitt  for  our  estate  condicon  & 
callinge  as  v*ee  lived  in  this  worlde.  I  giue  vnto  Edmunde  Gurdon  my  grandchilde  the  coppieholde- 
in  Melforde.  Sealed  and  published  in  the  prsence  of  Geffray  Gate  thelder,  John  Appleton  and 
Robert  Locke  my  servant.  Probatum  decimo  Octobris  1623  juramento  Johannis  Gurdon  nepotis 
ex  filio  eiusdem  defuncti.  P.C.C.  99  Swann. 


(Mil  of  JSrampimt  (Suiitmt,  1G47- 

This  nyneteenth  day  of  October  1647  I  Brampton  Gurdon  of  Assington  in  the  county  of 
Suffolk  Esqr,  being  of  perfect  memory  blessed  be  god,  doe  make  this  my  last  will.  I  comend 
my  soule  into  the  hands  of  Almighty  god,  my  body  to  be  buried  in  Assington.  I  have  made 
surrender  of  my  coppiehold  lands  and  tenements  in  Greate  Wenham  East  Bergholt  and  Roydon  in 
the  County  of  Suffolk  to  the  vse  of  my  last  will.  I  doe  give  the  same  to  my  eldest  sonne 
John  Gurdon.  I  have  likewise  surrendered  my  coppiehold  lands  and  tenements  holden  of  the 
Mannor  of  Shipdham  and  lyeing  in  Shipdham  and  Letton  in  the  county  of  Norfolk  to  the  vse  of 
my  last  will.  I  doe  give  the  same  vnto  my  sonne  Brampton  Gurdon.  I  give  vnto  Merriell  my 
dearly  beloued  wife  my  best  coach  and  five  horses  and  all  my  plate  marked  with  Sidleyes  and 
Knevitts  coates,  one  deep  silver  bason,  one  silver  suger  box,  a  silver  chaffin  dish,  three  greate  and 
three  lesser  silver  drinking  bowles,  two  broad  silver  bowles,  a  silver  foot  with  a  screw,  six  silver 
plates  with  Gurdons  and  Sidleyes  Coatts,  six  silver  sawcers,  a  cawdle  cupp  with  a  cover,  a  little 
silver  tankerd,  fower  silver  porringers,  fower  trencher  salts,  fifteene  silver  spoones  and  the  bell  salt. 
Item  I  give  vnto  her  six  high  stooles  of  crostitch  and  two  high  chayres  to  them  later  wrought,  and 
six  crostitch  cusheons,  and  the  two  Turkey  wrought  carpetts,  these  being  in  the  dineing  chamber, 
and  such  of  the  pictures  there  as  shee  shall  make  choyce  of.  Item  I  give  vnto  her  the  fowleing 
table  in  the  greene  chamber  ;  and  all  the  furniture  in  the  yellow  chamber  and  inner  chamber, 
conteyDed  in  the  Inventury  beareing  date  the  28th  of  January  1646.  I  further  give  vnto  her 
six  new  Turkey  wraught  cusheons  and  one  suite  of  new  greene  carpetts,  consisting  of  three  in 
the  greate  parlor  and  a  Livery  cubbord  and  a  little  table  in  the  seeled  chamber.  And  I  further 
give  vnto  her  the  furniture  in  the  redd  and  white  chamber  and  the  inward  chamber  to  the  same ; 

2  N2 


•284 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


excepting  a  livery  cubbord  with  a  drawer,  a  high  Turkey  wraught  chayre  and  a  little  Turkey 
wraught  chayre.  And  I  further  give  vnto  her  three  of  the  Servts  best  bedds,  the  bedd  which 
sliee  wrought  with  all  belonging  to  it,  as  chayres  counterpane  and  stooles,  and  the  bedstead 
and  all  other  her  worke  wraughte  by  her  or  now  in  working.  Item  I  give  vnto  my  wife 
26  old  plaine  napkins  marked  B.  G.  and  nyne  old  plaine  napkins  marked  G,  and  all  the 
lynnen  in  the  horded  chest  in  the  Gallery  marked  M.  G.  and  conteyned  in  the  Inventary 

aforesaid.  And  likewise  the  linnen  in  the  firendell  chest,  and  in  the  first  chest  in  the  dryeinge 
chamber  and  six  paire  of  holland  sheets,  1  paire  fine  eln  wyde,  and  tenn  paire  of  pillowbeers  in 
the  great  chest.  I  further  give  my  said  wife  three  brasse  potts  whereof  that  bought  of  Mr 

Hopkins  be  one,  the  chaffer  bought  whilst  I  lived  at  Grecneford,  one  square  copper,  two  kettles,  three 
skelletts,  one  paire  of  the  best  dripping  panns,  six  sheetes,  one  of  the  best  morters,  one  chopping 

knife,  and  a  clever,  a  brasse  cullender  and  a  skimer,  two  pott  ledds  and  two  potthooks,  a  brasse 

ladle,  a  basting  ladle,  a  flesh  hooke,  a  fryeing  pann,  two  resting  irons,  seaven  trayes,  seaven  cheese 

motts,  five  cheese  breds,  one  barrell  churne,  a  keeler,  a  cheese  tubb  and  a  skimer.  My  will  is 

that  all  the  pewter  stamped  with  Bannetts  (Barretts)  and  Littons  Arrnes  doe  goe  to.  my  sonne 
John  Gurdon,  the  residue  to  be  devided  betwixt  my  said  sonne  and  my  wife.  Item  I  give  vnto 
my  sonne  Brampton  Gurdon  the  furniture  in  his  chamber  menconed  in  the  inventary  aforesaid. 
I  further  give  him  one  hundred  pounds  in  liew  of  a  guift  given  him  by  my  mother  Scdley.  I 

give  vnto  him  my  sworde,  launce  armes,  my  light  horse  Armes  in  Norff.,  my  3'1  corslett  armes 

and  my  second  muskett  with  lied  piece  bandeleers  and  other  furniture  belonging  to  them.  I  give 

unto  my  said  sonne  Brampton  the  bald  colt.  And  to  my  wife  a  horsemans  Armes  and  a 

muskett.  Vnto  James  Gurdon  the  sonne  of  my  sonne  Robert  Gurdon  one  hundred  pounds,  to  be 

disposed  of  for  his  best  advantage  by  bindinge  him  out  apprentice  or  other  wise,  but  soe  soone 

as  he  shalbe  of  full  age  or  come  to  enioy  his  lands  he  may  bee  as  beneficiall  to  his  sisters  as 

my  guift  to  him  doth  amount  vnto.  I  give  to  my  daughter  Mildmay  one  little  guilte  bowle  and 

twenty  pounds  in  money.  Item  to  my  sonne  Johns  wife  one  longe  damaske  table  cloth,  a  short 
damaske  table  cloth,  a  square  damaske  cloth,  a  cubbard  damaske  cloth,  two  damaske  towells,  and 
two  dozen  of  damaske  napkins,  and  twenty  pounds  in  money.  To  my  sonne  Hill  and  to  his 
wife  twenty11,  halfe  thereof  to  my  sonne  and  lialfe  to  my  daughter.  To  my  sonne  Saltonstall 
flfifty  pounds  and  to  his  wife  ffifty  pounds.  To  my  sonne  Roberts  wife  five  pounds.  And  to  my 
sonne  Bramptons  wife  five  pounds.  I  give  to  my  nephevves  Nathaniell  Bacon  and  ffrancis  Bacon 
to  each  fforty  shillings  for  rings.  Item  I  give  to  Mr  Walker  my  Minister  tenn  pounds,  to  Mr 
Pecliy  fforty  shillings,  to  Mr  Newcomen,  fforty  shillings,  to  Mr  Rayment  fforty  shillings,  to  Mr  Rogers 
of  Ipsv'ich  in  Newr  England  five  pounds,  and  to  Mr  Stansby  of  Ipswich  in  this  county  two  pounds, 
to  Mr  Edes  fforty  shillings.  Item  I  give  to  the  poore  people  of  Assington  twenty  pounds.  To 
the  poore  of  Dedham  two  pounds.  To  the  poore  of  Newton  twenty  shillings.  To  the  poore  of 
Sudbury  five  pounds.  To  the  poore  of  Boxford  forty  shillings.  All  these  guiftes  to  the  poore 

to  be  imployed  as  my  executor  shall  thinke  fitting.  Item  I  give  to  my  servant  Thomas  Jones 

fforty  shillings  besides  his  wages.  To  Ezra  Swett  fower  markes.  To  Ougon  -  and  his  wife 

to  each  twenty  shillings.  To  Peter  Dyxe  and  his  wife  fforty  shillings.  To  every  one  of  my 
servants  not  herein  remembred  halfe  a  yeares  wages  besides  their  wages  then  due.  To  Edmond 
Smith  twenty  shillings.  To  Mother  Ardly  twenty  shillings.  Item  I  give  vnto  my  wife  five  hundred 
markes.  I  make  my  sonne  John  Gurdon  sole  and  only  executor  and  my  loveiug  nephewes 
Nathaniell  and  Francis  Bacon  Supervisors,  and  I  give  to  each  of  them  five  pounds.  I  give  all 
the  residue  to  my  said  sonne  John  my  executor,  and  declare  this  to  be  my  last  will  and  testament 
consisting  of  these  fower  sheetes  of  paper,  my  hand  and  seale  being  sett  to  each.  Subscribed 
sealed  and  published  in  the  presence  of  Ste:  Blomfield,  John  Riden,  Edmund  Jesupp. 


GURDON  OF  ASSINGTON. 


285 


Memorandum,  Ibis  Codicill  to  be  taken  as  a  further  part  of  my  last  will.  I  doc  give 
vnto  my  loveiug  brother  Martin  Sedley  Esqr  fforty  shillings  to  buy  him  a  Ring.  Vnto  Mr  Smith 
of  Dedham  fforty  shillings.  Vnto  the  poore  people  of  Stoake  by  Nayland,  of  Buers  S*  Maries 
&  of  Nayland  fforty  shillings  to  each.  1  give  vnto  Mr  Eaton  now  liveing  with  me  2  pounds. 
Vnto  Isaake  Cooke  my  servant  ffifty  shillings  and  to  Susan  Hudson  my  servant  three  pounds  more 
than  formerly  given  to  them  in  my  will.  I  give  vnto  Edmond  Jesupp  twenty  shillings  and  to 
An  Rayment  five  pounds,  both  servants  vnto  my  sonne  Brampton  Gurdon.  I  have  allwayes  intended 
that  Meriell  my  deere  wife  should  have  an  estate  in  my  coppiehold  messuage  in  Wenham  Magna, 
East  Bergholt,  Caple  and  Holton  which  I  purchased  of  Arthur  Hodilow.  I  doe  hereby  declare  that 
my  said  wife  shall  have  all  my  said  messuage  dureing  the  tearme  of  her  naturall  life  to  her 
owne  use.  Upon  the  marriage  of  Brampton  Gurdon  my  eldest  sonne  (by  Merriell  my  now  wife) 
with  Mary  his  now  wife  I  did  settle  my  mannors  etc.  in  Norfolk  upon  him.  I  now  declare  to 
avoid  all  after  doubt  and  disputes  that  the  same  mannors  &c.  shall  come  and  remaine  to  my  said 
sonne  Brampton  Gurdon  and  his  heires  for  ever.  Further  I  give  to  him  the  spruce  chest  in 
which  Letton  evidences  and  conveyances  are  bestowed.  This  first  day  of  ffebruary  1648.  Sealed 
in  the  puce  of  us,  Martin  Lewis,  Isaac  Key,  Joseph  Lewis.  Probatum  apud  London  decimo  sexto 
die  Maij  1650  jurameuto  Johis  Gurdon  filij  diet  defunct  et  executoris. 

P.CC.  68  Pembroke. 


J^fctg;ree  of  3Srampton  of  Xetton. 


Sr  Peirce  Brampton  of  Letton^ p.  .  .  d.  &  coliiere  of  Sr  Peirce 
in  Com.  Norfolk.  I  Basingham  Knt. 


I 

_ i 


Sr  Thom  Brampton  of  Letton  in  Norff.=r.  .  .  d.  &  coheire  of  ..  .  Barton. 


William  Brampton  of  Letton  in  N or f. Elizabeth,  da.  of  John  Leventliorp  in  co.  Hertford,  Esq. 


- 1 - 1 - - 1 - 1 - 1 

Thomas^Alice,  d.  of  Ann,  first  d.,  Elizabeth,  wife  to  Dorothy ,3daughtr  ffrancis.^daughtr,  Will’m  Bramp-=f=  Elizabeth. 


Bramp¬ 
ton  of .  . 
2  son. 


John  Gar-  wife  to  Tlio-  frauds  Cushin  wife  to  Wm.  wife  to  Wm.  ton  of  Letton 

neysofKen-  mas  Norrysof  of  Bingham  in  Drwry  ot  Bes-  Baundy  of  Ips-  in  Norff.,  son 

ton.  Lancaschr.  Norff.  2  daugh-  thorpe  in  Norff.  viich  in  Svff.  cfc  heire  to  Wm. 

ter. 


d.  to  Robt. 
Browne  of 
Som' setshire 


Thomas  Brampton. 


John  Garden  son  <fc  heire  of  Robert  Gordon^ Amy e,  his  only 


of  Assington  in  Suff. 


daughtr. 


Brampton  Garden  of  Assington  in  Svff.  ^Elizabeth,  d.  of  Edward  Barrett  of  Belhowse  in  Essex. 


- 1 - ~i - - - - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 - 1 

John  Garden,  Robert  Garden,  Brampton  Garden,  Edward  Gorden,  Will’m  Gorden.  Ann.  Elizabeth.  Judith, 


first  son. 


son. 


3  son. 


4  son. 


5  son. 


Arms  : — Brampton.— Gules,  a  fess  Argent ;  in  chief  three  plates. 

Basingham. — Cheeky  Or  and  Gules  ;  over  all  a  bend  Ermine. 

Barton. — Quarterly,  1  and  4,  Argent  on  a  fess  Gules  three  Annulets  Or  ;  2  and  3,  Paly  of  six  Argent  and 
Azure  ;  over  all  a  fess  Gules. 

Harl.  MS.  1552,  fo.  47>',  collated  with  the  original  in  the  College  of  Arms. 

Harl.  MS.  1552,  contains  “  The  Visitacion  of  Norff.  made  <£•  taken  by  William  Harvey  Clarencieux  King  of  Arms, 
1563,  enlarged  with,  another  visitacion  made  by  Clarenceux  Cooke  with  many  other  descents  Also  the  Vissitation  made 
by  John  Raven,  Richmond,  1613.  Transcripta  P.  R.  Mundy  Anno  1620.” 


286 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


(SurDon  of  ^sstngton. 


Bertram  de  Gurdon  in  1199  shot  King  Tticliard  the 
first  with  a  barbed  arrow  from  ye  walls  of  y»  Castle  of 
Chaluz  of  vfih  wound  the  King  afterwards  died:  but  he 
first  torgave  Bertram,  reflecting  upon  his  own 
avaritious  undertalcing. 


This  Sr  Adam  was  outlawed  for  treason  it-  Rebel¬ 
lion  as  one  of  the  adherents  to  Simon  Earl  of  Leicester 
A  with  his  followers  kept  between  Wilton  A  fernham 
whither  Edward  the  first  came  with  an  army  di- 
hearing  of  Sr  Adam’s  bravery  demaned  a  single  com- 
bate  A  at  last  pleased  xoith  his  bravery  A  proof  of  his 
manhood  bad  him  yield  promising  him  life  A  his 
lands  again  :  xoho  throwing  away  his  weapon  enjoyed 
the  full  benefit  of  Prince  Edivard's  promise  :  twas 
before  lie  was  King.  Sr  Adam  after  this  was  made 
one  of  the  justices  Itinerant  for  the  Pleas  of  the 
forest.  Sr  Adam  bore  the  Leopard's  heads  fiory 
argent  in  a  field  Gxdes  <t  Robert  his  younger  son  was 
he  that  changed  the  colour  to  black  <t  gold  to  be 
distinguished  from  the  elder  house  then  in  Wiltshire. 


Jelry  de  Gurdon  in  1220  had  the  custody  of  ye  lands  dr 
heire  of  Stephen  de  Muschamp  in  Priermarc  which 
Phillip  de  Ulcotes  gave  him  :  obiit  123S. 


Sr  Adam  Gurdon  of  Shropshire  :  obt  1310.= 


! - ; - 

Robert  Gurdon,  Sheriff  of  London 
obiit  13 jo  :  younger  son. 


John  Gurdon,  merchant  in  London ,: 
obt  13S5. 


What  is  become  of  Sr  Adam's  eldest  son  A 
his  descendants,  I  know  not. 

=f=  Thomas  Gurdon  of  Oxfordshire,  the 
elder  branch. 


Thomas  Gurdon,  sometimes=f= 
stiled  of  London  A  some¬ 
times  of  Kent,  obt  lj36 : 
Clyne  in  Kent. 


John  Gurdon  of  Kent, 
in  his  son’s  will. 


.J 

obt 


Sr  Adam  Gurdon  of  Shropshire  the  latter  end  of 
Queen  Elis,  told  Brampton  Gurdon  that  the  Essex 
and  Stiff.  Gurdons  were  descended  from  his  family 
thro'  the  city. 


Ij65  ;  namecL 


=Joan,  dau.  of 
her  son’s  will. 


named  in 


Margaret=f=  John  Gurdon  of  Dedham  in  Essex  died  ljS7  A  in  his — Mathilda,  dau:  of 


2d 


dau.  of 
first  wife. 


will  gives  severall  gifts  to  ye  church  viz.  to  build  in  a 
better  form  or  repair  the  Tabernacle  of  St  John  the 
Evangelist  in  Dedham  church,  Ac.  A  gave  to  a  pres¬ 
byter  to  pray  for  John  Gurdon  A  Joan  his  wife  being 
his  parents.  See  his  will,  p.  274. 


wife,  a  Clothier's  widow  in 
Dedham,  who  being  well  stock 
lor  ye  cloatliing  trade  she  A  her 
husband  carried  that  trade  till 
his  death. 


Thomas  Gurdon,  younger  son. 
In  Will,  P.C.C.  23  Vox,  12 
Dec.  1495  ;  names  Grace,  his 
wife,  Katherine, Johan  &  Anne, 
his  daus.,  and  desires  to  be 
buried  in  Dedham  church. 


- 1 

W”>  Gvr- 
don,  3d  ion 
Named 
1487  in  his 
brother’s 
will. 


John  Gurdon  of  Dedham. = 
Will,  P.C.C.  5  Holgrave, 
3  April  1504  ;  prob.  21 
May  1504.  To  be  bur.  in 
the  church,  to  which  he 
gives  large  bequests. 


'-Joan,  dau.  of  ...  . 
In  her  Will,  Arch.  Colch., 
dated  28  Dec.  1512,  she 
names  Christian  Cradock, 
her  dau.,  John  Gurdon, 
her  son,  &c. 


Joan  A  Alice , 
died  before 
their  father, 
and  are  named 
in  his  will. 


Isabella  Gurdon. 
= Thomas  Martin 
of  Wrabnes  and 
had  son,  Thomas 
Martin,  1  i  vin  g 1 4 8  7 . 


WiiliamGurdnrt, 
a  weaver  A  ful¬ 
ler  :  named  in 
his  father’s  will, 
1487. 


Agnita,  fil.  Tho:=f=Rnb.  Sexton,  deLav-^Ccecilia,  Mary,  3  da.  and  coh.  of = John  Gurdon  of=pAnne,  da.  of  John 


Jermyn  de  Rysh- 
brook  mil,  ux. 
second.  Her 
son’s  widow  m. 
Martin  Sedley 
of  Morley,  co. 
Norff. 


enham  inCom.Suff  fil  Tho: 
gen.  qui  tenuit  Bill-  Spring  de 
ham  hall  10  H.  8.  Laven- 
1519.  Sepult  apud  ham,  ux 
Lavenham.  Will,  prim. 
P.C.C.  6  Ayloff,  25 
Feb.  1517.  A 


JohnButterof  Dedham. 
Her  eldest  sister  m. 
Robt.Rolfeof  Hadleigh, 
co.  Sufi.  Alice,  her  2d 
sister  m.  John  Hawis, 
Town  Clerk  of  Ipswich. 
Earl.  MS.  1560. 


Dedham;  named 
1505  in  his 
father-in-law. 
Coleman’s  will. 
Lord  of  Roushall 
Manor  in  Clop- 
ton.  Ob.  1536. 


Colman  of  Lynns- 
hall  in  Edward- 
stone,  co.  Sufi., 
who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  4  Adeane, 
16  Dec.  1505. 


Robert  Gurdon,  a  cloth¬ 
ier  A  dyer  ;  named  with 
Rob.  Gurdon,  Margaret 
Gurdon  A  AgnesGurdon, 
his  children,  1487,  in 
his  father’s  will. 

■“i - 1 

Joane.  Christian,  mar. 

named  after  1504  to 

in  her  Robert  Cradock 

grand-  of  Dedham  ;  had 

father’s  daus.  Joan  and 

will,  Alice  Cradock  in 

1487.  1612. 


Rose  Sexton,  Gl!i  dau.  =j=  Rob.  Gurdon  of  Wald- 


colieir  to  her  bro¬ 
ther,  Tlios.  Sexton, 
and  widow  of  Will 
Appleton  of  Little 
Waldingfield,  Esq., 
by  whom  issue.  See 
AfPLETON. 


Ingfield  parv:  Esq. 
Bought  Assington  of 
Sir  Miles  Corbet. 
Will,  P.  C.C.  19Bakon 
3  Ap.  1578.  High 
Sheriff  of  Suffolk. 


- 1 — l — l - 

...  1st  dau.,  mar. 
William  Butter  of 
Dedham. 


3d  dau.  mar. 


Fox. 


6th  dau. ,  mar , 
Coleman. 


A  nn,  jth 
dau.  mar. 
Roger  Wyn- 
col  of  Wal- 
dingfeild  & 
had  son, 
John  Wyn- 
coll.  A  wi¬ 
dow,  1580. 


Amy,  5th  dau.  mar. 
.  .  .  Nottingham, 
of  Ipswich. 

Jane,  8th  dau.,  mar. 
Wm.  Cardin  all  of 
North  Bromley  in 
Essex. 


Katherine,  7 th  dau., 
m.  Richard  Laurence 
of  Spexhall,  co.  Suff. 
His  Will,  P.C.C.  34 
Loftus,  27  Oct.  1560. 
She  died  before  24 
Jan.  1561,  probably 
in  childbirth. 


Alice,  2  dau.,  mar. 
Rob.  Thorpe  of 
Brent  lley  hall. 
(“1,  m.toBunneof 
Manitre.  2,  to  Rob. 
Thorpe.”  Earl. MS. 
1560.)  Had  4  chil¬ 
dren,  1560. 


ThomasLit-= 
tleofShrub- 
land  Hall, 
co.  Suffolk, 

Esq.  Cand¬ 
ler,  Earl. 

MS.  6071. 

i - 1 

HelenLittle, sole  dau. 
and  heiress,  m.  Ed¬ 
ward  Bacon  of  Shrub- 
land  Hall,  co.  Suff., 
Esq  ,  3d  son  of  Sir 
Nicholas  Bacon,  Lord 
Keeper.  Her  Will, 
P.C.C.  119  Twisse,  is 
dated  30  Oct.  1645. 


=Elizabeth,  dau.  and=i=Edward  Barrett  of 


coh.  of  Sir  Robert 
Lytton,  Kt.  Her 
Will, P.C.C.  71  Dixey, 
dated  27  May,  36 
Eliz.,  was  proved  18 
Oct.  1594. 


Belhouse  in  Alve- 
ley,  co.  Essex,  Esq. 
Will.  P.C.C.  6 
Windsor,  15  Jan. 
1584  ;  prob.  25 
Feb.  1585. 


John  Gurdon  of= 
Assington  and  of 
Wenham:  ob.1623. 
H  ighSheeiff  nt'Sn  if. 
158 j.  Will,  P.C.C. 
99  Swann,  6  Dec. 
1621,  proved  10 
Oct.  1623. 


-Amy,  sole  daugh. 
A  heir  of  Will. 
Brampton  o/  Let- 
ton.  Norff.,  who 
made  will  5  May 
1567,  which  was 
made  void,  1572. 


- ! - 

Robert 
Gurdon, 
2  son, 
died 
unmar¬ 
ried. 


Elizabeth,  onely  daugh¬ 
ter— Thomas  Wald- 
grave  of  ye  ferriers  in 
Betters.  In  his  Will. 
P.C.C.  48  Fenner,  1 
June  1611.  he  names 
“  MaryBadby,my  now 
wife.”  =p 

i _ _ 


John  Thorp 
mar.  .  .  . 
Nevill,  1st 
wife  A  .  .  . 
Dighton  of 
Liticolnsh  ire 
second  wife. 


Anne  Barrett, 
younger  dau. 
and  coheir  by 
this  marriage, 
mar.  Thos. 
Corbett  of 
Sprowston,co. 
Norfolk,  Esq. 


-BramptonGurdonof  As-~- 
sington,only  son, Burgess 
for  Sudbury,  1629,  High 
Sheriff  of  Suffolk,  1628 : 
Will,  P.C.C.  68  Pem¬ 
broke,  1647,  proved  16 
Mayl650.  Entered  ped. 


Eliz.dau.of  Edit).- 
Barret  of  Bel- 
house  in  Alveley 
A  coheir  to  her 
mother,  dau.  A 
coheir  ol  Sr  Tho. 

Litton  of  Hert- 
fordshire,  Kt.  A>n  Suffolk  Visitn.  1612./f\12  May  1608, 


Muriell,  dan.  of 
Martin  Sedly  of 
Morley  in  Norff., 
2d  wife.  His 
Will,  with  Sen¬ 
tence,  P.C.C.  22 
&  53  Wingfield, 


See  next  page. 


See  Gurdon  op  Letton. 


Elizabeth  Gur¬ 
don,  only  dau. 
dyed  unmar¬ 
ried:  she  lies 
buried  under 
a  fair  monu¬ 
ment  in  Blick- 
ling  chancell. 


Thomas  Waldegrave,  eldest 
son.  His  dau.  A  heir 
mar.  Herbert  Pelham, 
Esq.  Another  dau.  A 
heir  m.  Isaacke  Wincoll. 
and  had  issue,  Isaacke 
Wincoll,  Penelope,  mar. 
Lome  ...  2d  dau.  mar. 
Dr.  Collins  of  Norwich. 


There  were  three  Adam  Gurdons  in  the  thirteenth  century.  There  is  a  letter  in  Rymer’s  “Foedera”  from  Edward  II 
introducing  the  sons  of  the  Adam  Gurdon  of  his  day  to  the  Pope.  See  papers  on  this  subject  in  the  “  Genealogist,”  N.S.,  vol.  IV,  107  &c 


GURDON  OF  ASSINGTON. 


287 


#urt>oit  of  tetngton. 


Elizabeth,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Edward  Barrett  of^fBrampton  Gordon  of  Assington,  co.  Suffolk, =i=Muriel,  dau.  of  Martin  Sedley  of 


Belhouse  in  Aveley,  co.  Essex,  by  Elizabeth,  dau. 
and  coheir  of  Sir  Thomas  Lytton.  See  Barrett’s 
pedigree  and  quartering  in  the  “  Visitations  of 
Essex,”  edited  by  Mr.  W.  C.  Metcalfe,  F.S.A. 


Esq.,  (see  preceding  page)  ;  M.P.  for  Sudbury,  I  Morley,co.  Norfolk, who  madeWill, 
1620;  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk.  1628.  Will,  |  12  May  1608,  proved  5 March  1609; 
P.C.C  68  Pembroke,  Oct  1647,  proved  1649.  ^sister  to  Sir  Ralph  Sedley. 

Gukdon  of  Letton. 


John  Gordon, Esq.,  of=pAnn,  da.  of  Sir  Cal- 


Assiugtou  ;  M.P.  for 
Suffolk  in  the  Long 
Parliament.  Will, 
P.C.C.  129  King,  25 
June  1677,  proved  4 
Oct.  1679.  Entered 
pedigree  in  Suffolk 
Visitation,  1664. 


Robert  Gurdon, 
Esq.,  of  Assiugton, 
s.  and  li.  Ob.  s.p. 
He  mar.  Elizabeth, 
dau.  of  Lord  Lysle. 
( Jurdon  MSS. 


throp  Parker  and  of 
Dame  M  ercy  ,his  wife ; 
who  madeWill,  P.  C.  C. 
123  Pile.  2  July 
1636.  Her  Will, 
P.C.C.  107  North,  23 
Aug.  1680  ;  prob.  16 
July  1681. 

1 — i — r 


Robert  Gurdon,  2d=j=  Joyce, 
son,  aged  13, 1612  ; 
of  the  Inner  Tem¬ 
ple,  Esq..  6  Oct. 

1647,  when  he 
made  will. 


dau.  of 
James  Harvey, 
Esq.,  of  co.  Es¬ 
sex.  She  was  of 
London,  widow, 
1677. 


James  Gurdon,  son  and  heir,  entered 
pedigree  in  the  Londou  Visitatn.,1 664. 


- 1— I - 

Brampton  Gur- 
dou,  3d  son,  d. 
uum.atClifford’s 
Inn,  1621. 

William, 5th  son, 
died  young  at 
Cambridge . 


i  i 

Elizabeth, 
eldest  dau., 
died  s.p. 

Judith,  3d 
dau.,  set.  17 
in  1612, died 
sp. 


- 1 

Amy,  2d  dau  , 
aged  19  in  1612; 
mar.  Sir  Henry 
Mildmay,  Kt.,  of 
Graces  in  Essex. 
Her  Will  dated 
18  May  1699,  is 
given  at  p.  46. 


John  Gurdon,  2d  son,  s.p. 
Brampton  Gurdon,  5th  sou,  s.p. 
William  Gurdon,  7th  son,  s.p. 


Margaret, =Philip  Gurdon,  M,D.,  of=Mrs.  Elizabeth  Gurdon 
da.  of  Sir  Assingtou,  had  four  wives  al’sAgge.  S’ntia, P.C.C. 
Andrew  and  died  s  p.  Will, P.C.C. 

Joyner,  124  Dyke,  proved  1690. 

Bart.  Blois.  Lucy,  then  his  wife,  sur¬ 
vived  him.  Third  son. 


112  Penn, 1670, between 
Philip  Gurdon,  her  hus¬ 
band,  and  Elizabeth 
Goodwin,  her  dau. 


Barrett  Gurdon, 
6th  son,  of  Assing- 
ton,  Gent.  Will, 
P.C.C.  141  Lort.  7 
J  une  1693, proved  3 
Juuel698.  Ob.s.p. 


Rev.  Nathaniel  Gurdon.  D.Dy 
4th  son,  Rector  of  Chelms¬ 
ford.  Inherited  Assington  on 
the  death  of  Philip  Gurdon, 
his  brother.  Will,  P.C.C.  72 
Lort,  proved  20  March  1698  ; 
d.  1696,  Eet.  64. 


= Elizabeth,  dau.  of 
llev.  Emmanuel 
Arundell  of  Stoke, 
co  Northampton  ; 
ob.  1727,  aged  90  ; 
bur.  at  Balsham,  co. 
Camb.  M.I. 


Elizabeth, eld¬ 
est  da  mar. 
....  Barber 
of  Norwich, 
M.D.  Candler, 
&c. 


Judith,  2d  dau.,  mar. 
1, .  .  Doddridge, Coun- 
sellor-at-Law.  Candler. 
2.  John  Gould  of  Lon  don , 
merchant.  Had  issue, 
1693,  Samuel,  Daniel 
and  Nathaniel  Gould. 


Anne,  3d  dau.,  mar.  1st 
Samuel  Brandling  of 
Ipswich, Esq., who  made 
Will.  P.C.C.  73  Duke, 
2  Jan.  1670  and  was 
then  of  Gray’s  Inn  ; 
2d,  Mr.  John  Joliffe. 


L 


John  Gurdon,  Esq.,  of=pLetitia,  dau.  and  coheir  of 


Assiugton  ;  M.P.  for 
Sudbury  ;  ob.  1758, 
aged  86.  Will,  P.C.C. 
55  Arran.  21  Feb.  1752, 
proved  1759. 


Sir  William  Cooke  of 
Broom  Hall,  co.  Norff., 
Bart.  ;  died  1710,  ret.  37. 
Hersister,ElizabethCooke 
mar.  Thorn  hagh  Gurdon. 


Anne,  eldest  da., 
mar.  Sir  John 
Comyns,  Chief 
Baron  of  the 
Exchequer. 


Elizabeth,  2d  dau.,  mar. 
the  Rev.  William  Wood- 
roife,  B.D.,  Rector  of 
Balsham.  co.  Camb.  Her 
Will,  P.C.C.  73  Treuley, 
was  proved  1742. 


- 1 - 

Amy, 
unmar¬ 
ried  in 
1693. 


Amy,  4thdau.,  mar.  1st 
Hugh  Forth  of  London, 
who  entered  ped.  in  Vis¬ 
itation  of  Loudon, 1664. 
In  1677  and  1693  she 
was  wife  of  Dr.  Thomas 
Jacomb. 

- 1 

Robert 
Gurdon, 
youngest 
sou,l693. 


Judith,  married 
Richard  Comyns, 
Esq.,  brother  of 
the  Chief  Baron. 


Nathaniel  Gurdon 
■of  Assiugton,  Esq., 
s.  and  h  ,  m.  Eliza¬ 
beth,  dau.  of  John 
Bayer,  Esq.,  of 
Stowmarket. 


John,  2d  son, 
a  lawyer. 

William,  3d 
s.  ;  a  mer¬ 
chant,  mar.  & 
had  issue, Ed¬ 
ward  in  1752. 


Rev.  Philip=f=Elizabeth,  Elizabeth. 


Gurdon, 4th 
son,  Vicar 
of  Bures. 
Will,  P.C.C. 
80  Ducarel. 
7  Nov. 1780. 


dau.  of 
Herbt.  Pel¬ 
ham,  Esq., 
of  Bures. 


Letitia. 


Rev.  Brampton=Anne,  dau.  of 
Gurdon,  Othson,  the  Rev.  Wm. 
Vicar  of  Assing-  Woodroffe, 
ton,  Rector  of  abovenamed 
Mildingfe  Official  and  Elizabeth 
of  Sudbury.  Ob.  Gurdon,  his 
1780,  ait.  73.  wife. 


Rev.  Parker  Gur  =f=Philippa,  da.  of 


don,  Rector  of 
C  ran  worth  cum 
Letton :  ob.  13 
June  1672,  ait. 
53.  M.I.atCran- 
worth. 


J 


theRev.George 
Clarke,  Rector 
of  Raydon.  Ob. 
1779,  Eet.  65  ; 
bur.  at  Stoke 
by  Nayland. 
M.I. 


John  Gurdon  of 
Assington,  Esq. 
Will,  15  Sep. 
1777,465  Collier, 
P.C.C.  ;  ob.  s.p. 
same  year. 


Rev.  Philip  Gur-=j=Sarah  Rich- 


don,  succeeded  to 
Assington  by  the 
death  of  his 
cousin,  John  Gur¬ 
don  ;  ob.  1817. 


ardson  ;  ob. 
1822,  aged 
69.  M.I.  at 
Assington. 


Rev. 
.1  olm 
Gur¬ 
don, 
1780. 


Elizabeth, 
ob  unm.at 
Colchester 

Letitia. 


Jemima,  mar. 
Charles  Xing, 
Vicar  of 
Hoxne.  .  .  . 
Ray,  2d  hush. 


Thorn  hagh  Gur¬ 
don  of  Saxmund- 
ham,  co.  Suff.  ; 
mar.  &  had  issue; 
devisee  of  John 
Gurdon,  1777. 


Vero  Kemball  of=pLetitia  Philip- 


Witham,  co.  Essex, 
Surgeon,  mar.  at 
Hadleigli,1776.  Ob. 
1814, set. 65;  bur.at 
W  oodhamMortimer 


pa  Gurdon, 
bapt.  1754  ; 
last  in  the  en¬ 
tail  of  J  ohn 
Gurdon,  1777. 


BramptonPhilipGur- 
don,  6th  Dragoon 
Guards,  born  1779. 
Ob.  at  Cootehill,  co. 
Cavan,  1804,  aged 
23.  M.I.  there. 


BridgetAurea,da.=j=JohnGurdon=j=Aune,  da.  of 


of  William  Lam- 
barde,  Esq.,  of 
B  eeclim  out , 
Sevenoaks.  She 
ob.  1  June  1826. 


of  Assington, 
Esq.,  mar.  8 
Jan.  1828 
died  1869. 


Col.  Charles 
Powell  Leslie 
of  Glaslough, 
co.  Monoghan, 
M.P. 


— i — i — i — ; — 

AnnaMaria. 

Jemima. 

Letitia. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  1812 
Rev.  Joseph  Adam 
Stephenson,  Rector 
of  Limpshain,  co. 
Somerset. 


Vero  Clarke  Kemball,  Surgeon- 
General  I.M.D.,  mar.  and  had, 
with  other  issue,  General  Sir 
Arnold  Burrows  Kemball, 
K.C.B  ,  K.C.S.I.,  &e. 


John  Barrett=j=Sophia  Katherine  Gatnbier, 


Gurdon,  b. 
1825  ;  mar. 
1857; ob  1863 
vita  patris. 


6th  dau.  of  Charles  Doug¬ 
las  Halford,  Esq.,  of  West 
Lodge,  East  Bergholt, 
Suffolk. 


Bertrand  Gurdon.  b.  1829  ;  mar.  1854, 
Sarah  Evelyn,  eldest  dau.  of  Kev.  Wm. 
Clarke  King  of  Durham,  who  died  the 
same  year.  Is  now  a  priest  of  the 
Oratory,  Brompton. 


Mary,  2d  da.  of  the= 
Rev.  Arthur  Hanbury, 
Vicar  of  Bures,  co. 
Suffolk.  She  ob.  1869. 


-Rev.  Philip=p. 
Gurdon,  b. 
1835. 


of 

A. 


.  dau. 
Mons. 
F.  Rio 


of  Paris. 


PlnlipGurdon,Esq.=j=Kdith,  3d  dau.  of 
of  Assington,  J.P.,  |  the  Rev.  Charles 
born  2  Dec.  1857  ;  Holland,  Rector  of 
mar.  4  Nov.  1885.  |  Petworth. 


Edward  Barrett  Gur¬ 
don,  born  1860  ;  mar¬ 
ried  and  had  issue  one 
son  ;  died  1885. 


WilliamGur- 
dou,  R.A., 
born  1682. 


John  Gur¬ 
don,  born 
1861. 


Arthur  Gur¬ 
don,  born 
1864. 


Amy. 


Francis, 

born 

1879. 


—  i ; — i . 
Elise.  Valerie. 


John,  born  1887. 


Willliam  Nathaniel,  bom  1890. 


Eleanor,  born  1888. 


288 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES, 


tuition  of  Jetton. 


Elizabeth,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Edward  Bar-=j=Brampton  Gurdou  of  Assington.  co.  Suffolk,1 


rett  of  Belhouse  in  Aveley,  co.  Essex,  by 
Elizabeth,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Sir  Thomas 
Lytton  of  Hertfordshire,  Knt.  First  wife  ; 
died  1603. 


Esq.,  only  son  and  heir  of  John  Gurdon, 
Esq.  ;  M.P.  for  Sudbury,  1620  ;  High  Sheriff 
of  Suffolk,  1628.  Will,  P.C.C.  68  Pembroke 
/|\19  Oct.  1647,  proved  1650. 


Gurdon  of  Assington. 


Muriel,  dau.  of  Martiu  Sedley  of  Morley, 
co.  Norfolk,  Esq.,  who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  53  Wingfield,  12  May  1608  by 
Abigail,  dau.  of  Sir  Thos.  Knyvett  of 
Ashwelthorpe  ;  sister  to  Sir  Ralph 
Sedley  ;  2d  wife  ;  ob.  1661,  set.  78. 


I — r- 

Tliomas 
Gurdon, 
2d  son,& 
Martin 
Gurdon, 
4th  son, 
died  s.p. 


Edmond  Gur¬ 
don,  3d  son,  d. 
at  the  “  Bar- 
moodies,”  i.e. 
Bermuda,  on 
his  way  toNew 
England. 


Brampton  Gurdon.  =pMary,  da. 


Esq. ,  of  Letton, co.Nor- 
folkjCol.of  the  Suffolk 
Horse  during  the  Civil 
War.  M.  P.forSudbury. 
Will,P.C.C.21  Penn, 10 
Feb.  1662,  proved  1669. 


of  Henry 
Polsted 
of  Lon¬ 
don,  ob. 
1679, set. 
71. 


Abigail,  eld.  da.,  mar.  Amy, 
ltogerHillof  Pouudsford,  2d 
co.  Somerset,  Esq.,  M.P.,  dau., 
after  Baron  of  the  Ex-  died 
chequer;  who  made  Will.  s.p. 
P.C.C.,  44  Carr,  1664, and 
had  son. Sir  Roger  H  ill,  Ivt. 


Muriel,  3d  dau.,  mar.  1633  Richard  Saltonstall, 
Esq.,  eldest  son  of  Sir  Richard  Saltonstall  of 
Essex,  and  went  with  him  into  New  England, 
1635.  She  had,  with  other  issue,  Gurdon 
Saltonstall,  s.  and  h.,  who  ob.  s.p.,  and  Richard 
Saltonstall,  Citizen  of  London,  who  made  will, 
P.C.  C.  1 38  Carr, 25  Aug.  1 665,  andob.  vita  patris. 


Brampton  Gurdon  of  Letton,  co.  Norfolk, ^Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Colonel  Thornhagh  of  Fenton,  co.  Nottingham,  Thomas  Gurdon, 
Esq.  ;  ob.  1691.  |  son  of  Sir  Francis  Thornhagh  ;  ob.  1718.  son  ;  ob.  s.p. 


second 


Thornhagh  Gurdon  of  Letton, =f=Elizabeth, 
Esq.,  Receiver  General  of  Nor¬ 
folk  temp.  Q.  Anne.  Author  of 
11  The  Origin  and  Rights  of 
Parliament.”  Will,  P.C.C.  61 
Ockham,  proved  5  March  173f. 


dau.  and  coli. 


of 

Sir  William  Cooke,  Bart.,  of 
Brome  Hall,  Norfolk,  sister  to 
Letitia,  who  mar.  John  Gurdon 
of  Assington.  Her  Will,  P.C.C. 
139  Seymer,  was  proved  1745. 


Brampton  John,  3d  Yen.  Brampton  Gurdon  of  Elizabeth, 

Gurdon,  2d  son,  died  Denham,  co.  Buckingham,  died  an  in- 

son,  ob.  s.p.  1691,  s.p.  clerk,  1633.  Archdeacon  of  fant,  1668. 

Sudbury  and  author  of 
several  theological  works  ; 
ob.  1741.  Of  London,  1725. 


Brampton  Gurdon, 
eldest  son.  of  Lettou, 
co.  Norfolk  ;  ob.  s.p. 
vitd  patris. 


Thornhagh  Gurdon  of  Letton, =j=Sarah,  sole  dau.  and 


Esq.,  heir  to  his  father.  Will, 
P.C.C.  223  Cornwallis,  6  Dec. 
1779,  proved  6  May  1783.  Bur¬ 
ied  in  Crauworth  church. 


heir  of  Theopliilus 
Dillingham,  Esq-,  of 
Shelton,  co.  Beds.  ; 
ob.  1754. 


Jane  Gur-  Elizabeth  Gurdon  of 

don,  died  the  Cathedral  Pre- 

1760,  s.p,  cincts,  Norwich.  Will, 

P.C.C.  456  Warburton, 
1776  ;  ob.  1779. 


- 1 

Letitia,  mar. 
Rev.  Nathaniel 
Saltier,  Rector 
of  Ashdon,  co. 
Essex. 


Mary,  dau.  and  coheir  of= 
Samuel  Howard,  Esq.,  2d 
wife  ;  ob.  1821. 


=Brampton  Gurdon,  Esq.,  of  Letton,  Norfolk,  and  Grundesburgh.= 
Suffolk,  b.  1740  ;  took  the  surname  of  Dillingham  ;  High  Sheriff 
of  Norfolk,  1789  ;  died  1820. 


Mary,  only  dau.  by  this 
marriage,  mar.  William 
Frere,  Sergeant-at-Law, 
Master  of  Downing  Col¬ 
lege,  Cambridge,  who 
died  1836.  She  ob.  1684. 


Theopliilus  Thornhagh  Gurdon, ^Anne, 
Esq.,  of  Letton  and  Grundisburgh; 

Col.  West  Norfolk  Militia;  J.P. 
and  D.L. ;  High  Sheriff  of  Norff., 

1824  ;  born  24  Aug.  1764  ;  died 
13  March  1849. 


da.  of  William 
Mellish,  Esq.,  M.P.  of 
lllyth,  co.  Notting¬ 
ham  ;  mar.  25  July 
1706  ;  ob.  23  Dec.  1850. 


Thornhagh  Phi¬ 
lip  Gurdon,  born 
13  Sept.  1765  ; 
died  1  Nov. 
1833. 


=Mary,  dau.  of  Philip  Bedingfield  of  Ditcli- 
ingham,  co.  Norff.,  Esq.,  1st  wife  ;  died 
1769. 

- - 1 

Philip  Brampton  Gurdon,  born 
10  July  1767  ;  Captain  58th 
Foot  ;  fell  in  action,  24  April 
1795,  in  the  Island  of  Grenada, 
West  Indies. 


Brampton=j=Henrietta 


Gurdon,  Esq., 
of  Letton  and 
Grundes- 
burgh,  J.P.  & 
D.L. ;  M.P.  for 
West  Norfolk; 
High  Sheriff, 
1855;  b.  1797 ; 
ob.  28  April 
1881. 


Susannah, 
eldest  da. 
and  coheir 
of  Nicholas 
William, 
Lord  Col- 
borne;  mar¬ 
ried  12  Aug. 
1828  ;  died 
1880. 


John  Gurdon,  Esq.,  b. 
1799  ;  m  1st.  in  1835, 
Mary  Martin  Slater,  wi¬ 
dow  ofSirThos.  Ormsby, 
Bart.,  and  da.  and  h.  of 
Gen1.  Francis  Rebow,  & 
assumed  name  of  Re¬ 
bow;  2d  Lady  Georgina 
Toler,  da.  of  the  Earl 
ofNorbury.by  whom  he 
had  issue.  He  ob.  1870. 


Rev.  Philip  G  ur- 
don,  M.A.,  J.P., 
Rector  of  Cran- 
worth  cum  Letton ; 
b.  1800  ;  m.,  1832, 
Henrietta  Laura, 
da.  of  John  Pul- 
teney,  Esq.,  of 
N  ortherwood, 
Hants,  and  had 
issue  ;  ob.  1874. 


William  Gur-  Rev.  Edward  Gurdon,  Rector 
don  of  Bran-  of  Kimberley,  born  1812  ; 
tham,co.Suff.,  mar.,  1st,  Mary  Wilhelmina 
Esq.,  born  Frederica,  da.  of  Wm.  Frere, 
1864  ;  Re-  Master  of  Downing,  who  died 
corder  ofBury  1850  ;  and  2d  Catherine,  Mar- 
St.  Edmunds,  garet  Temple,  da.  of  Rev. 
and  Judge  of  Temple  Frere,  Rector  of  lloy- 
CountyCourt;  den,  Norfolk,  and  Canon  of 
died  1884.  Westminster.  She  died  1892, 
leaving  issue.  He  died  1873. 


- 1 

Anne,  only  dau., 
mar.,  1825,  Henry, 
eld.son  of  the  Hon. 
John  Wodehouse, 
and  grandson  of 
Lord  Wodehouse, 
by  whom  she  had 
the  present  Earl  of 
Kimberley  &  other 
issue.  She  died 
1880. 


Harriot  Ellin,  5th  =j=Robert  Thornhagh  Gur-=j=Emily  Frances,  dau. 


dau.  of  Sir  William 
Miles,  Bart.,  of  Leigh 
Court ;  mar.  4  Sept. 
1862  ;  died  7  April 
1864  ;  1st  wife. 


don  of  Letton  and 
Grundesburgh,  J.P.  & 
D.L.  ;  M.P.  for  South 
Norfolk,  1880,  and  for 
Mid  Norfolk,  1885 ; 
born  1823. 


of  Rev.  RobertBooth- 
by  Heatlicote  of 
Friday  Hill,  Essex  ; 
mar.  27  July  1874. 
2d  wife. 


Sir  William:=pLadyEvelineCa- 
BramptonGur-  milla,  2d  dau.  of 
don,  K.C.M.G.,  Isaac  Newton, 
C.B.,  2d  son  ;  5th  Earl  of  Ports- 
born  1840.  mouth  ;  died 
1894. 


- , - ! 

Charlotte,  born  1835,  mar.  Amy 
S  May  1860,  Horace  Broke,  Louisa, 
Esq., only  sou  of  Major-Gen.  b.1833; 
Broke,  and  cousin  of  Sir  died  6 
George  Broke  Myddleton,  Feb. 
Bart.  She  d.  1868,  leaving  1864. 
issue. 


Amy  Harriott,  b.  23  March  1864  ;  mar.  1st  19  Aug.  1884,  Lionel  Charles,  eldest 
son  of  Walter  Drummond,  Esq.  (see  Strathallan  in  Burke's  Beeraje). 
2d,  Alfred  Bayley,  son  of  the  Rev.  Nicholas  Ridley  (see  Ridley,  Barouets). 


Bertram  Francis 
Gurdon,  born  13 
June  1877. 


- 1 - 

Bertram  Heath- 
cote,  b.  1875  ;  d. 
an  infant. 


Muriel  Charlotte, 
born  1876. 


The  Gurdon  Pedigree  of  1612  is  given  by  Mr.  Metcalfe  in  his  “  Visitations  of  Suffolk.”  Passages  from  the  old  family 
tree  at  Letton  are  printed  in  italics  on  page  286.  Similar  pedigrees  occur  in  Hark  MS.  1560  and  the  Candler  MSS. 


Merton  of  Ealicnljam. 


Will  of  Hokrt  barton,  1517. 

The  xxv  day  of  ffebruary  1517  I  Robert  Sexten  thelder  of  Lauenhm  make  my  last  will. 
I  bequeth  my  soule  to  god,  to  our  lady  saint  Mary  and  to  all  the  holy  company  of  hevyn.  My 
body  to  be  buried  in  the  pissh  Church  of  Lauenhm.  I  will  haue  an  honest  priest  to  singe  for 
my  soule  and  for  all  xpeti  soules  by  the  space  of  vi  yeres  after  my  deth.  I  geve  vnto  the 
bylding -of  the  Stepull  of  lauenhm  Church  xl1'.  I  will  also  haue  two  tapers  on  the  Beame  before 
the  Rode  for  to  brenne  in  the  tyme  of  diuine  seruice  by  the  space  of  ii  yeres.  I  will  my  wife 
Annes  Sexten  haue  all  my  londe  win  the  pisshe  of  Lauenhm  for  the  terme  of  her  lyfe,  and  after 
all  the  said  houses  londs  medowes  and  pastures  remayn  to  Thomas  my  sonne.  Also  I  geve  vnto 
my  son  Thomas  Sexten  cc1*  assone  as  he  cometh  to  the  age  of  xxiiij  yeres.  I  will  also  that 
he  haue  all  my  lond  in  Essex  lying  in  Gastynyorp,  grete  Mapulstede  and  litell  Mapulsted.  And 
if  it  fortune  that  my  son  Thomas  to  dye  and  haue  noon  issue  of  his  body  I  will  that  my  londe 
in  Essex  and  the  residue  of  the  money  and  ware  remayn  to  my  doughters  which  I  haue  by  my 
wife  Agnes.  To  euly  of  my  vi  doughters  which  I  haue  by  my  wife  Agnes  xlu  a  pece  at  the 
day  of  their  mariage  orells  assone  as  they  come  to  the  age  of  xxt;  yeres.  To  my  sister  Thomas 
Barbour’s  wife  xxs  to  pray  for  my  soule.  Vnto  eujy  one  of  William  Rysby’s  children  that  he 
hath  by  my  doughter  Margaret  xx8  a  pece  at  the  age  of  xx  yeres.  Also  vnto  euly  one  of  Thomas 
Cokar's  childern  that  he  hath  by  my  doughter  Annes  xxs  in  like  maner.  I  make  Annes  Sexten 
my  wyfe  executrice,  and  John  ffbuhell  supuisor.  Witness  I  Sr  John  Cooke  pisshe  priest  of  Lauenhm, 
John  Hunt,  Thomas  Burton,  John  Yole  and  many  moo.  Probatum  apud  Lamebith  xx°  Marcij  1517 
jurament’  procuris  Agnetis,  relicte  &  executric’.  P.C.C.  6  Ayloffe. 


Will  oi  1520. 

I  Agnes  Sexten  make  and  declare  my  testamente  the  xxth  day  of  July  the  xij tu  yere  of 
the  Reigne  of  Kinge  Henry  the  viijth.  I  bequethe  my  soule  to  almightie  good  to  our  lady 
Saincte  Mary  and  to  all  the  holy  company  of  hevon,  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  churche  of 
Lavenham  by  my  late  liowsbond  Robert  Sexten.  I  will  haue  an  honeste  preste  to  singe  for  my 
soule  my  liowsbande  and  my  frendes  soules  by  the  space  of  vi  yeres.  I  bequethe  to  my  sonne 
Thomas  all  my  white  woll  and  my  wodde  wl  all  necessaries  belonginge  to  the  occupacion  of 
clothmaking,  excepte  my  dyed  woll  whiche  I  will  shalle  goo  to  the  pfourmance  of  this  my  laste 
will.  I  give  to  Alis  my  doughter  lx1*,  to  Margaret  my  daughter  lx11  at  hir  age  of  xviij,  to 
Rose  my  doughter  lx11,  to  my  doughter  Mary  lx11,  to  my  doughter  Agnys  lx“,  to  my  doughter 
Briget  lx1'.  I  geve  to  Ambrose  Jermen  my  god  sonne  five  marks,  to  my  broder  Robert  xl8,  to 

my  broder  ffraunces  xl8  and  a  litle  goblet  pounsed,  to  my  sister  Mary  xl8.  I  geve  for  a  foote 

to  be  made  before  Saincte  Anne  in  the  churche  of  Lavenham  xx8.  I  will  that  my  children  enioy 
my  Joells  and  plate  accordinge  as  I  haue  made  deliuery  &  guifte  vnto  theym.  Also  in  the  way 

of  chai-itie  I  require  on  goddes  behalf  charge  myn  executors  to  fulfill  the  will  of  myn  housbando 

2  O 


290 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Robert  Sexten  in  all  that  is  not  yet  perfourmd.  I  give  to  the  buildinge  of  Rushbroke  ehurche 
v  mks.  If  suche  debte  as  Jois  Tyler  and  other  mchaunts  of  the  Stiliard  owe  me  come  to  myn 
executours  than  immediately  after  I  bequeath  xl1'  to  be  bestowed  vpon  reparacon  and  ameiulinge 
of  the  highe  waies  and  other  xl1’,  pcell  of  the  said  debts,  to  be  bestowed  vpon  the  buyldinge  of 
the  Steple  in  Lauenham.  Also  I  geve  an  hundred  marks  pcell  of  the  foresaid  debts  for  a  candle 
beame  wlin  the  clmrche  of  Lavenham.  I  make  my  broder  Thomas  Jermen,  John  flowelle  and 
Thomas  Sexten  executours.  Probatum  xxii j°  die  Augusti  1520  Executorib^. 

P.C.C.  31  Ayloffe. 

mill  of  William  Jltxtljitialte,  1538. 

William  Methwold  of  Langforde  in  the  Countve  of  Norff,  Esquyer,  the  fourthe  daye  of  the 
monythe  of  Octobre  1538.  I  bequeth  my  soule  to  god  almightye,  the  ffather,  the  sonne,  and 
thollye  goste,  in  whome  I  haue  all  my  hole  truste,  faythe  and  confidence,  and  my  wretchid  bodye 
to  the  yerth.  To  the  reparacon  of  the  churche  of  Langforde  made  of  stones,  where  the  people 
slmlde  be  taught  the  worde  of  god,  and  also  to  the  cofnen  box  for  the  reliefe  of  poure  people 
and  to  sett  idel  psons  on  worke  accordinge  to  the  kyngs  lawes  xxs.  To  the  churche  of  South 

Pykenham,  for  the  like  purpose  xxs,  Ac.,  Ac.  I  will  that  they  bestowe  amonge  poure  wydowes 

and  other  ympotente  persons  win  the  hundred  of  South  Grenehowe  iiiju.  To  the  right  heire  of 
Edmonde  Hunte  of  Glemmysforde  twenty  pounde.  I  will  that  myne  executours  kepe  the  profitts 
of  my  ffarmys  of  Lytle  Bokenham  Stanforde  and  North  Pykenham,  fyndinge  and  kepinge  my  seven 
doughters  till  they  come  to  the  age  of  xviij  yeres  or  be  maryed — that  is  to  save  Alyce,  Marye, 
Amy,  Rose,  Anne,  Elizabeth  and  Tomsyu,  and  thereof  to  be  paide  to  them  ffortye  pounde.  I 
will  suche  of  the  twelve  hundred  3-owes  as  cannot  be  kept  conuenyentle  vppon  my  said  ffarmes 
be  solde.  I  will  that  Alice  my  wife  shalhaue  my  lease  I  haue  of  the  sheppashire  in  South 
Pikeuhm  called  the  Slay  whiche  I  haue  of  the  demyse  of  my  lord  Latymer,  paying  the  rent  of 
the  same.  If  said  Alice  dye  before  the  saide  yeres  then  I  will  that  John  Methewold  my  eldest 

sonne  shalhaue  the  leas.  Myn  executors  shall  take  the  profutes  of  my  Manour  of  Langford  and 

of  all  my  purchased  lands  in  Bodney,  Stanford  Ac.  for  the  space  of  tenne  yeres  towards  the 
marriages  and  heaping  of  my  said  daughters.  All  the  residue  of  my  goods,  except  my  swannes 
and  signetts,  which  I  giue  and  bequeth  to  John  Methwold  my  eldest  sonne  to  contynue  wk  my 
Manner  of  Langford,  to  the  finding  of  my  said  daughters.  1  ordeine  Alice  my  wife,  Richard 
Methewold  my  brother,  John  Oliver  of  Tofts  and  Edmond  Bitson  clerke,  psonne  of  Langford, 
myn  executours.  And  I  desier  Sir  Christofer  Jenney  and  Sir  Thoas  Jermyn  to  be  supuisors  and 
ayders.  Probatum  xiiij0  die  Maij  1539  juramento  Rici  Methwold  psonaliter  pntis. 

P.C.C.  13  Crum  well. 


8>tar  ttljambr  (Ixant  t.  H^nhtgljam,  1342. 

To  the  King  our  Sovrain  Lord.  Showeth  yor  most  humble  subiect  Robert  Crane  Esquyor 
that  con  Wyllm  Methold  Esquyor  for  the  sum  of  oon  hundreth  pounds  sold  unto  yor  said  subiect 
as  well  the  custody  of  the  body  of  John  Methold  his  then  son  A  heir  apparnt  untell  his  full 
age  of  xxi  yers  as  the  marridge  of  the  same  John  Methold.  And  after  the  said  bgayn  and  sale 
the  said  Wittm  Methold  died  about  thre  yers  past  A  more.  So  it  is  moost  gracious  Sovrain  lord 
that  oon  Antony  Hevenyngham  Esquyor  on  the  Sonday  next  aftr  Allhallowen  Day  last  past,  beyug 
then  accompayned  wth  a  fouer  or  fyve  psons  whoos  names  yor  subiect  cannot  in  any  wyse  lerne, 
havyng  vppon  them  Cootes  A  Dubletts  of  Fence,  arrayed  with  swerds  bucklers  daggers  bowes  and 


SEXTON  OF  LA  VEX  HAM. 


291 


other  wepoiis,  in  moost  ryoutous  manr  did  breke  the  prke  gate  of  yor  subiect  at  Chylton  in  the 
Countie  of  Suff  <fc  did  then  throw  the  same  of  the  hyngells  into  the  comen  wey  or  strete,  and 
on  the  said  Sonday  between  the  houres  of  eight  &  jx  of  the  clok  in  the  fore  none  did  entre 
in  to  the  Chauncell  of  the  pishe  Chirch  of  Chylton  &  did  take  away  the  said  John  Methold. 
yor  subiect  then  saying  his  matens  not  pceyvyng  any  such  doing.  When  the  said  mysdemeanor 
was  signyfyed  unto  yor  subiect  the  same  yor  subiect  went  out  of  the  Chirch  into  a  Grene  adioyninge 
the  Chirch  yerd,  at  which  tyme  the  said  Antony  &  psoues  were  all  on  horsbak  &  had  trussed 
the  sd  John  Methold  lyke  wyse  on  horsbak  to  have  ryden  their  wey  w*  hym.  Yor  subiect  then 
leyed  unto  the  charge  of  the  said  Antony  his  mysdemeanour,  whereuppon  the  same  Antony  then 
&  ther  sweryng  such  abhomynable  othes  which  yor  subiect  detesteth  to  exprsse  drew  out  his 
swerd  and  commanded  the  said  psones  to  draw  their  swerds  and  then  casted  a  foyne  at  yor 
subiect  which  he  cast  asid  wfc  his  cap  being  dubled  up  in  his  hand,  &  did  ryde  away  w*  the 
said  John  Methold  as  fast  as  their  horses  could  go,  and  the  same  John  evr  sith  the  said  Sonday 
hath  w*  liolden  &  kept  from  yor  subiect  ayenst  all  equyte  &  good  consyens.  In  tendre  consideration 
whereof  it  may  please  yor  moost  excellent  Maicstie  to  grnte  yor  most  gracious  W^tt  of  Subpena 
commandyng  the  said  Antony  Hevenyugham  to  appre  in  yor  Starre  Chamber  at  Westmr  to  answer 
to  the  Jurysses  &  to  have  w*  him  the  body  of  the  said  John  Methold  to  be  delyred  to  him  to 
whom  yor  maiestie  shall  please  to  appoynt. 

Th’  answer  of  Anthony  Hevenyngham  esquier  to  the  bill  of  compleynt  of  Robte  Crane. 
Or  sayd  Sovereigne  lorde  by  his  most  gracious  Ar  fire  generall  pdon  by  Acte  of  his  liighe  Courte 
of  Parliament  holden  the  xiiij  of  January  in  the  xxxvth  yere  of  (his)  Reigne  ded  &  hathe 
pdonyd  all  riouts,  routs,  on  lawfull  assembles,  fforeis  &  armis  done  by  any  of  his  subiects  before 
the  seyd  xiiij  daye  of  January  ;  of  which  pdon  deffend  prayeth  allowans  &  benefit.  Wyttm 
Methold  mensioned  in  the  bill  of  compleynt  held  the  Maner  of  Langforthe  wthin  the  Countie  of 
Norff  of  Deffend  by  one  hole  Knights  Fee  &  by  the  yerly  rent  of  vi3  viijd  as  by  thande  of  his 
very  tennte,  that  is  to  saye  of  tliomage  &  fealte  as  of  fee,  whiclie  svice  discendyd  to  Deffend 
as  sone  &  heier  of  Sir  John  Hevenynghm  Knight  decessyd.  The  Manor  discendyd  to  the  seyd 
John  Methold  as  sone  &  heyer  of  seyd  Wyttm,  the  same  John  being  under  thage  of  xxi  yers, 
that  is  to  saye  of  th’age  of  xiiij  yers,  by  reson  whereof  the  custody  wardshipe  &  marriage  of 
the  said  John  Methold  did  belong  to  Defend  the  Sonday  next  after  the  Feast  of  all  Saynts  in 
the  seyd  xxxv  yere  of  or  lorde  the  King.  Defend  did  take  &  sease  the  body  of  the  seyd  John 
ifc  hym  maried  as  good  &  lawfull  for  hym  yt  was  to  do.  And  yf  Wyllm  Methold  had  solde 
the  custody  of  the  seyde  John  his  sone  &  after  died,  that  sale  is  not  materiall  nor  takythe 
not  awey  the  Tytle  &  Wardshippe  that  Defend  is  entitled  to  have.  Defend  had  (no)  other  limber 
of  s)  vunts  with  hym  than  he  was  comonly  wonte  to  ryde  wth.  His  sVunts  had  (no)  other 
weapons  but  as  slvyng  men  do  comonly  ryde  wyth.  Which  matters  (he)  is  ready  to  averre  & 
prove,  as  this  honable  Courte  shall  hym  award. 

Star  Chamber  Proceedings,  Henry  the  VIII,  Vol.  II,  fol.  27,  28. 


Mill  of  Holjn  JJtdljfraltr,  1547. 

I  John  Methwoulde  of  South  Pickenlmm  in  the  County  of  Norfolk  Gentu  being  of  good 
minde  &  memorie  thanks  be  to  God  make  this  my  last  will  &  testament  this  15d  day  of  December 
in  the  1st  year  of  reign  of  King  Edward  the  6d.  First  I  the  said  John  do  bequeath  my  soule 
to  Allmightie  God  &  my  body  to  be  buried  within  the  parish  church  of  South  Pickenham  when 
it  is  the  pleasure  of  Allmightie  God  to  take  me  to  his  mercye  &  I  bequeath  the  wardship  & 


292 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


marriage  of  Thomas  Methwold  my  son  &  heir  to  Alice  Methwold  my  mother.  Item  I  give  unto 

my  said  mother  towards  the  bringing  up  of  my  said  son  all  freehold  lands  as  I  now  have  in 

South  Pickenham  wherein  Jane  my  wife  stood  not  possessed.  Item  I  bequeath  and  will  that  Jane 
my  wife  shall  have  <k  enjoy  all  freehold  land  wherein  she  is  entitled  which  was  &,  is  my  will. 
Item  I  give  unto  Jane  my  wife  all  such  moveables  as  I  now  have  only  except  such  things  as 
my  father  William  Methwold  bequeathed  by  his  last  Will  &  Testament  &  which  Will  &  Testament 
I  will  not  to  be  broken  but  to  be  performed  according  to  the  due  meaning  &,  effect  thereof. 
And  fore  as  much  as  business  may  be  hex-eafter  for  my  sickness,  to  the  intent  to  avoid  slanderous 
&  ill  speeches  I  do  now  declare  by  this  Will  &  testament  how  I  came  by  it.  So  it  was  I  had 
occasion  to  ride  to  Norwich  whereon  I  took  my  journey  thirward  on  horseback  with  my  wyff 
behind  on  Wednesday  fortnight  before  Christmas  in  the  morning  being  a  great  frost  &  at  Sayme 
(Saham)  bridge  a  little  on  this  side  Walton  Market  the  water  was  frozen  &  then  I  caused  my 
horse  to  go  over  the  bridge  &  when  he  was  on  the  middle  bridge  his  foot  slivered  on  the  one 
side  by  reason  that  I  spurred  him  &  so  I  fell  into  the  water  there  with  me  A  myne  wyfe 
wherein  I  had  been  drowned  if  my  wyff  had  not  gotten  up  in  the  water  &  have  taken  me  by 
the  head  &  kepe  it  above  wrater  until  one  Henry  Page  of  Hasshill  did  helpe  me  ought  &  had 
us  both  to  a  house  in  Sayme  &  therefore  I  would  myne  wyff  should  bear  no  charge  nor 

rebuke  for  this  my  sickness  which  came  by  the  mishap  aforesaid  &  none  otherwise. 

_  Cur.  Ep.  Norwic. 

Mill  of  Militant  jftrntarj?,  1621. 

The  first  daye  of  November  1621.  Willm  Firmage  of  Rougham  in  the  Couutye  of  Suff. 
gent.  Vnto  my  brother  Francis  Firmage  all  my  lands  and  houses.  Vnto  my  sister  Shouldham 
threescore  pounds.  To  my  nephewe  Thomas  Shouldham  and  Willm  Shouldham  and  to  my  neece 
Frances  Shouldham  twenty  pounds  a  peece.  To  my  sister  Gawdy  fforty  pounds,  also  I  giue  vnto 
hir  my  watche.  To  my  nephewes  Thomas  Gawdy  and  Edward  Gawdy  to  each  of  them  twenty 
pounds.  To  my  brothers  Mr  Thomas  Shouldham  and  Mr  Edward  Gawdy  to  each  of  them  five 
pounds  and  a  ring  of  golde  with  deathes  head  and  this  posy  Melioris  ianua  vitce.  To  my  unckles 
Mr  Henry  Firmage,  Mr  Cristofer  Hirne  and  Mr  Jonas  Pitts  to  eache  of  them  a  ringe  of  golde 
with  deathes  head  and  the  like  posy.  To  my  aunt  Hirne  and  my  aunt  Pitts  to  each  of  them 
a  peece  of  plate.  To  my  vnckle  George  Methwold  three  pounds  and  to  each  of  his  children  twentie 
shillings.  To  my  cosen  Joane  Barwicke  three  pounds.  To  Ann  Pitts  daughter  of  my  cosen 
Lionell  Pitts  and  to  Eleanor  Methwold  daughter  of  my  cosen  Robert  Methwold  to  each  of  them 
a  peece  of  plate  wrorth  three  pounds.  To  Edwai'd  Buller  sonne  of  my  cosen  Alexander  Buller, 
Anne  Pitts  daughter  of  my  cosen  Thomas  Pitts,  Winifrid  Drury  daughter  of  Mr  Clement  Drury 
of  Rougham  and  Elizabeth  Goodricke  daughter  of  Mr  Samuell  Goodricke  of  Rushbrooke.  To  my 
cosens  Edmond  Porter,  Thomas  Pitts  &  Richard  Herbert  of  Bury.  To  Mr  Robert  Drury  of 
Rougham  my  Sett  of  English  and  Italian  Madrigalle  mauuscript  to  3,  4,  5,  and  6  voices,  and  to 
Mrs  Drury  his  wife  my  picturs.  To  Mr  John  Drury  of  Rougham  my  Sett  of  Latin  Mottetts  to 

4,  5  and  6  voices,  and  all  other  my  Setts  of  Singing  bookes  unbequeathed.  To  Mr  George  Kirby 

of  Bury  my  base  vyoll  with  the  case  and  all  my  bookes  of  vyoll  lessons.  To  Mr  George 

Kirby  of  Bury  my  Setts  of  bookes  of  ffancies  &c.  together  with  all  my  dutch  Roiall  ruled  paper. 

I  doe  make  my  said  brother  Francis  Firmage  executor  of  this  will.  Vnto  my  neece  Anne  Gawdy 
ten  pounds  when  shee  shall  attayne  to  the  age  of  eighteene  years,  and  vnto  my  vnckle  William 
Firmage  the  somme  of  twenty  pounds*  I  forgive  my  vnckle  John  Firmage  six  pounds  wch  hee 
oweth  mee.  Probatum  vicesimo  septimo  die  Maii  1622  juramento  Fraucisci  Fyrmage  fratris  diet! 
defuncti.  P.C.C.  47  Saville. 

The  Arms  of  Methwold  of  Norfolk,  as  tricked  in  Harl.  MS.  1552,  are  Azure  six  escallops,  3,  2,  1, 
Or,  a  crescent  for  difference.  The  Crest  is  a  goat’s  head  erased  Argent,  attire  and  beard  Sable. 


SEXTON  OF  LAVENHAM. 


293 


iiebtgm,  Merton,  ifletljtoolli  of  jEtorfolfi, 


Cecily,  sister  of  Thomas- 
S firing  nf  Lanham,  first 
wife  :  dau.  of  Thomas 
Spring,  whose  will,  P.C.C. 
29  March  1 486,  was  proved 
12  Sept,  following. 


■Robert  Sexton  of  Lanham  in- 
Com.  Suffolk.  Will,  P.C.C.  6 
Ayloff,  25  Feb.  1517,  proved 
20  March  same  year.  Moiety 
of  Mauor  of  Byham  Hall  in 
Great  Maplestead.  Morant. 


Margery  to  Willm 
Risbye  of  Laven- 
ham  in  Suff.,  who 
made  Will,  P.C.C. 
24  Powell,  14  Nov. 
1551  ;  mar.  and 
had  issue,  1517. 
See  Risby. 


Agnes,  mar.  to 
Thomas  Coker 
of  Essex,  gent. 
Named  1496  in 
her  grandfather 
Jermyn’s  will  ; 
mar.  and  had 
issue  1517. 


Mary,  mar.  to 
Anthony  Rouse 
of  Badingham  in 
Com.  Suff.,  gent.. 
who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  29  More, 
22  Nov.  1554. 


Bridget,  mar.  to 
Wm  Jerveys  of 
Suff.  Bridget 
Jervis  of  Whep- 
sted,  her  dau., 
made  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  1583. 


: Agnes,  sister  to  Sr  Thomas  Jermyn  of  Rush- 
broke  in  Com.  Suff:  da.  and  devisee  of  Thos. 
Jermyn,  Esq.,  1496,  in  Will,  P.C.C.  39  Hol- 
grave.  She  made  Will,  P.C.C.  31  Ayloff,  20 
July  12  H.  8,  proved  23  Aug.  1520.  To  be 
buried  by  her  husband  in  Lavenham  church. 


T 


Wm.Appleton=f=  Rose,  first  mar.  fi>=j=Ilobert  Gurdon 


of  Walding 
field  Parva,  co. 

Suff..  Gent., 
whomadeWill 
Arch.  Sudb., 

20  Sept.  1538./f\living  1579. 

See  Appleton. 


Wm  Apieton  ofWal- 
dingfeild  in  Suff.  ; 
after  to  Robert  Gor¬ 
don  of  Assington  in 
Com.  Suff.  esqr  : 


of  Assington,  co. 
Suff.,  Esq.,  de- 
viseeof  Anthony 
Rouse,  his  bro- 
ther-in-lawl554. 
A  Ob.  1578. 

See  Guudon. 


l 

Mar¬ 
garet, 
mar.  to 
Ed¬ 
mond 
Moore, 
gent. 


I - 

Thomas 


Lanham  in  Com.  Stiff, 
gent.  ;  devisee  of  his 
grandfather  Jermvn, 
1496.  Will,  P.C.O. 
15  Jankyn,  25  May 
21  H.  8  ;  children 
very  youug. 


Sexton  of =f- Elizabeth,  d.  <b=^Martyn  Sidley 


heireofTho.-Mount-  of  Morley  m 
neyofYngmonteney  Norff.,  2  husb. 
in.  Com.  Essex,  gent,  whose  grand- 
Had  Byham  Hall  dau.,  Muriel 
Manor  until  her  j  Sedley,  mar. 
son  became  of  age.  |  Brampton  Gur- 
/Kdon. 

r 


Willm  Methwold  of  Lang¬ 
ford  in  Com.  Norff.,  esqr, 
son  cfc  heire  of  Richard 
Methwold  of  Langford, 
esqr  ;  died  26  Oct.  1 539. 
Will,  P.C.C.  13  Crum- 
well,  4  Oct.  1538. 


Thomas  Sexton  of  Long- 
ham  in  Com.  Norff.,  gent , 
eldest  son.  Of  Gt.  Maple- 
stead,  co.  Essex,  Gent.,  6 
Oct.  1577,  when  he  made 
Will, P.C.C.39  Daughtry, 

Jane  Miller,  his  wife,  re¬ 
married  George  Golding, 

Gent, 

i 

( - - 

Mary,  mar.  John  Hilton  of  Burton,  co.  West¬ 
moreland,  Gent. ,  and  ob.  s.p.  Davy.  M orant. 


- 1 — i 

Robei  t  Sexton,  2 
son,  named  in 
his  father’s  will; 
ob.  s.p.  Blois. 

Edmond,  3  son, 
not  named  in 
his  father’s  will ; 
ob.  s.p.  Blois. 


Alys,  maryed 
to  John  Cag¬ 
ney,  and  had 
a  dau.,  Alice, 
mar.  to  Wm. 
Rookwood  of 
Weston,  co. 
Norff. 


M ary,  maryed  to  Thomas 
Bedingfeild  of  Flemings 
Hall,  son  and  h.  of 
Philip  BedingfieldjEsq. 
His  Will,  P.C.C.  42 
Holuey,  7  Nov.  1570, 
was  proved  17  Nov. 
1571.  A  quo  Beding- 
field  of  Ditchingham. 


Susan,  mar.  George  Alin  geby,  but  died  s.p. 
Byham  Hall  passed  to  her  sister.  Morant. 


- 1 - 

-Alis,  mar.  to=Edmond  Wolsey 
W m  Methwold  of  Newton  in 
of  Langford  in  Com.  Norfolk, 

Co '  Norff.,  mar.  to  his  2  wife 
gent.  Alice,  d.  to  .  .  . 

Sexton  <b  had  noe 
yssue.  Wolsey 
Pedigree. 


Agnes,  first  mar.  to 
Henry  Caslell,  aftr 
to  Willm  Knight 
of  Sowihumpton, 
gent.  For  Arms 
and  ped.  of  Knight, 
4  E.  6,  see  Harl. 
MS.  1544,  fo.  216''. 


— I - 1 - - — ■ 

Ann,  Anne,  maryed  to  Hum- 

maryed  phrey  Mynsterchamber, 

to  Rob-  whose  Inq.  p.m.  was 

ert  Bar-  taken  6  Eliz.  Bv  Fine, 

wyke.  Is  20Eliz.,NicliolasGisling- 

called  ham  and  Frances,  his 

Amy  in  wife,  their  sole  da.  and 

her  heir,  succeeded  to  their 

father  Manor  of  Hoo  Margaretts 

will.  m  Stuston,  Suffolk. 


Elizabeth. 


Rose. 


Elizabeth,  d  to — John  Methwold,  eldest= 


Robert  Crane, 
first  wife  lyvinge. 
Was  wife  of  Ed¬ 
ward  Wright  of 
Thwayte,  co. 
Suff.,  at  the 
Visitation  of 
1561. 


son  ib  heire  ;  he  dyd 
repudyate  his  1  wife. 
An  infant  at  his 
father’s  death.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  15 
Dec.  1547,  proved  1 
Nov.  1552.  Inq.  p.m. 
2  Edw.  VI. 


■Jane  Aplyard  o/=p John 
Dunston,  2d  wife, 
dau.  of  Thomas 
A  ppleyard .  Made 


Will  as  Jane 
Hammond,  Cur. 
Ep.  N.,  1603. 

See  Hammond 


Ham¬ 
mond  of  El- 
lingliam-by- 
Bungay,Gent. 


2d  liusbd. 
Will,  Cur,  Ep. 


/\Norw.  1558. 
OF  Ellingham. 


Willm  Methwo!d=E Susan  d.  to 
George  Al  i  ngton 
of  Rushford, 
Esq.,  brother 
to  Sir  Giles 
Alington  of 
Horseheath,  co. 
Cambridge. 


of  Rushworth  in 
Com.  Norff.,  gent.  : 
d.  26  Aug.  1586. 
Will,  P.C.C.  ;  bur. 
in  South  Picken- 
hani  Chancel. 


Dorothy,  da.=f=  Thomas 
of  James 
Downes  of 
Bodney,  Esq. 

Buried  at 
Laugford,  30 
July  1608. 


Methwold,- 
only  son  ;  aet.  2,  2 
Nov.,  2  E.  6.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  23 
Jan.  1630  ;  prob.  9 
Jan.  1632  ;  bur. 
at  Langford,  1631  ; 
named  in  his  mother’s 
AwiU-  A 


:Judith  Car¬ 
ter,  m.  at  St. 
Simon  and  St. 
Jude,  Nor¬ 
wich,  20  July 
1611  ;  bur.  at 
Langford, 
1630. 


I - 

George  Meth¬ 
wold,  Captain  at 
sea  ;  married 
Martha  .... 
Devisee  1621  of 
Wm.  Firmape, 
his  nephew. 


Frances  Meth¬ 
wold,  m.Edward 
Firmage  of  Ash- 
field  in  co.  Suf¬ 
folk,  Gent.  Her 
son,  Wm.  Fir- 
mage.madeWill, 
P.C.C.  47Saville, 
1  Nov.  1621. 


Xpofer 

Meth¬ 

wold. 


Thornazin,  mar. 
to  Thomas  Wol¬ 
sey  of  Newton 
in  com.  Norff., 
son  of  Edw. 
Wolsey  above- 
named  by  his 
first  wife. 


Dorothy,  m.  1,  Wm. 
Hubert  of  Worstead  ;  2, 
Wm.  Pater  of  Louth  ; 
3,  Christopher  Hyrne 
of  Wramplingham,  by 
whom  six  children;  bur. 
there  8  Sept.  1628. 
Norff.  Archaeol.,  Vol.  ix, 
177. 


- 1 

Mary  Meth¬ 
wold,  m.Kobt. 
Read  of  Ring- 
stead  Magna, 
co.  Norff.,  son 
of  Thos.  Bead 
and  Bridget, 
d.  of  John  Le 
Gros. 


Sir  Wm.  Methwold  of  Lincoln’s=f Margaret,  2d  dau.  of — Sir  Thos.  Rotherham, 


Inn,  Sergt.-at-Law  ;  mar.  at  Bar¬ 
ham,  14  Aug.  1591  ;  afterwards 
Chief  Baron  &  Lord  Chief  Justice 
of  Ireland  ;  died  7  March  1620  ; 
buried  at  Christ  Church,  Dublin. 


John  Southwell  of  Bar¬ 
ham.  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.  ; 
died  23  Dec.  1640  and 
was  bur.  on  the  26th  at 
Christ  Church,  Dublin. 


one  of  the  Privy 
Council  in  Ireland, 
son  of  George  Rother¬ 
ham,  by  Jane,  da.  of 
Christopher  Smith. 


Thomas  Methwold: 
of  Little  Cressing- 
liam,  co.  Norfolk  ; 
married  before  18 
May  34  Eliz.  ;  died 
before  16  Oct.  41  Eliz. 


Busan,  da.  of  An-=Gilbert 
thony  Hogan  of  Lew  in. 
Castle  Acre,  by 
Alianor,  dau.  of 
Thomas  Page. 


Elizabeth  Methwold,  only  child, 
born  18  June  1592  ;  mar.  18 
July  1608,  at  Dagenham,  Essex, 
Thomas  Potts,  Esq.,  Master  of 
Hare  Hounds  to  James  I  and 
Charles  I. 


Mary,  dau.  of 
Wright  of 
Rotherhall, 
co.  Kent;  bur. 
at  Kensington 


i - i - n  . 

Wm.  Methwold,  bap.  10=pSarah,  da.  of  Sir  Richd.  Deane,  Thomas  Meth-  Francis 

Sep.  1590.  InEastlndia  LordMayor  of  London,  1628, &  wold,  died  in  Methwold, 

widow  of  Wm.Bolfe  of  Enford,  India.  Admon.  killed  in 

co. Wilts;  M.P.forHeytesbury;  granted  to  his  Holland, 

mar.  to  Wm.  Methwold  at  St.  dau.,  Susannah,  — 

Matthew’s,  Friday  St ,  15 Feb.  wife  of  Thomas  Susan 

1652.  Her  will  proved  1678.  James  in  1649.  Methwold. 


Company ’s  servicel  61 5 
Died  at  Hale  House, 
Kensington,  Mar.  1653. 
5  Oct.  1652.  fi^Faulkner’s  Kensington. 
A  quo  Methwold  of  North  aw, 
co.  Herts,  1773. 


The  pedigrees  of  Sexton  and  Methwold  from  the  Norfolk  Visitations,  Harl.  MS.  1552,  are  printed  in  italics.  The  Arms  of  Sexton,  as 
tricked  in  this  manuscript  are  Quarterly,  1  and  4,  Sexton,  Argent  three  sinister  wings  Gules,  2  and  3,  Mountney,  Azure  a  bend  Argent 
between  six  martlets  Or,  a  crescent  for  difference.  Crest,  out  of  a  ducal  coronet  Or,  a  horse’s  head  Argent  between  two  wings  expanded  Sable. 


fSmxougl)  of  Wtrlffiamlirook 


©rant  of  ^rrns  to  ©Ijontas  IBurrouglj,  15SG. 

To  all  and  singuler  aswell  Nobles  and  Gentels  as  others  to  whom  theis  presents  shall  come 
bee  seene  harde  readd  or  vnderstood  I  Robert  Cooke  Esquire  alias  Clarencieulx  Kinge  of  Armes  of 
the  Easte  Weste  and  Southe  partes  of  this  Realme  of  England  sendeth  greetinge  in  owre 
Lorde  God  euerlastinge.  Forasmuch  as  auntientlie  from  the  beginninge  the  valiaunte  and  verteuous 
actes  of  worthie  persons  haue  been  commeded  to  the  worlde  and  posteritie  with  sondrie  monuments 
and  remembrances  of  their  good  desertes  Emongest  which  the  cliieffest  and  most  usual  hath 
been  the  bearing  of  Signes  and  tokens  in  Sheilds  commonlie  called  Armes  beynge  Euidences  and 
demonstrations  of  valoire  and  worthiness  diuerslie  distributed  accordinge  to  the  qualities  and  deserte 
of  the  persons  mereting  the  same  Euen  so  hath  the  same  been  and  yett  is  continuallie  obserued 
and  kept  to  thentente  that  such  as  haue  done  commendable  seruice  to  there  prince  and  Countrey 
may  receaue  dewe  honor  in  their  lyues  and  also  deryve  and  continewe  the  same  successyuelie  to  yer 
posteritie  for  euer  :  And  where  as  I  the  saide  Clarencieulx  Kinge  of  Armes  am  credebly  informed  that 
Thomas  Burrough  of  Wyckliambroke  in  the  Countie  of  Suffolke  gentilinan  hath  vsed  him  selfe  so 
vertuoslic  and  discreetlie  that  he  well  deseruetli  to  be  admitted  accepted  and  taken  into  the  number 
and  Soccietie  of  other  gentils :  In  consideration  whearof  and  for  a  further  declaration  of  the  saide 
Thomas  Burrough  Gentilman  and  at  his  instant  Regueste  I  the  saide  Clarencieulx  Kinge  of  Armes  by 
Power  and  aucthoritie  to  me  committed  by  Letters  patentes  vnder  the  greate  Seale  of  Enlaud  haue 
assigned  geuen  vnto  graunted  and  by  this  presentes  doe  assigne  geue  and  graunt  vnto  the  saide 
Thomas  Burrough  gentilman  this  armes  and  Creast  followinge,  that  is  to  saie  :  The  feilde  Argent  two 
Clieuernels  betweene  three  Chaplets  verte  the  rosis  d’or,  apon  his  healme  on  a  torse  argent  and 
vert  a  griffons  heade  coivpey  of  the  fielde  beaked  d’or,  charged  with  too  Clieuernels  of  the  coulor 
as  in  the  armes,  manteled  gules,  dowbled  argent  as  more  plainelie  appeereth  depicted  in  the 
margent  heerof.  Which  Armes  and  Creaste  and  euerie  parte  and  parcell  thereof  I  the  saide 

Clarencieulx  Kinge  of  armes  doe  by  this  presentes  giue  graunte  ratifie  and  confirme  vnto  the  saide 
Thomas  Burrough  gentil :  and  to  his  issue  and  posteritie  for  euer  and  hee  and  they  the  same 
to  vse  beare  and  inioye  at  all  tymes  and  for  euer  hereafter  (with  their  dewe  differencis  accordinge 

to  the  lawe  of  armes)  at  his  and  their  libertie  and  pleasure  without  impedement  lett  or 

interruption  of  enie  person.  In  witnesse  whearof  I  the  saide  Clarencieulx  Kinge  of  arms  haue 
liearunto  subscrybed  my  name  and  sett  thertoo  the  Seale  of  my  Office  the  xxu  of  June  in 

the  xxviij11  yeare  of  the  reygne  of  our  moste  gratious  Souereygne  Ladie  Queene  Elizabethe  &c. 
and  in  the  yeare  of  owre  Lord  God  m  o.  i.xxxu  and  vi. 

Robt  Cooke  Alias  Clarencieulx  Roy  Darmes. 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


295 


The  original  grant,  in  the  possession  of  the  Rev.  Charles  Burrough,  M.A.,  Rector  of  Eaton 
Bishop,  being  much  mutilated,  the  missing  words  have  been  supplied  from  the  ancient  record  in 
the  College  of  Arms  and  are  printed  above  in  italics. 

By  the  authority  of  the  College  of  Arms,  the  descendants  of  William  Burrough  and  Margaret, 
his  wife,  daughter  and  ultimately  heiress  of  Thomas  Highmore,  are  entitled  to  quarter  the  arms  of 
Highmore, — Argent,  a  cross  bow  pointed  upwards  between  four  moorcocks  Sable  beaked  and 
membred  Gules — with  those  of  Burrough  of  Wickhambrook. 


(Mill  of  ®bomas  JSnrall,  1559. 

The  xviij  daye  of  November  1559  and  yn  the  first  yere  of  Quien  Elizabeth,  &c.  Thomas 
Burrell  of  Stechwourthe  yn  the  Countie  of  Cambridge.  I  bequeath  my  sowle  to  the  great  mercie 
of  god,  only  trustinge  in  the  merritts  of  his  passion  as  the  scripture  and  holly  churche  doth 
teache  me,  and  my  boddie  to  be  buried  in  the  churche  of  sainte  Peter’s  of  Stetchworth  nere 
whereas  Alice  my  wief  doth  lye.  Vnto  my  sonne  Lambert  all  my  free  landes  yn  Thunderley  in 
the  Countie  of  Essex.  Allso  ther  shalbe  leayed  in  a  stocke  one  hundreth  poundes  to  finde  my 
sonn  Lambert  his  books  conditionally  that  yf  the  same  lambert  doe  not  continew  his  studdie  at 
the  la  we  the  space  of  xij  yeres  I  will  the  saide  hundrethe  poundes  to  remayne  to  my  doughters. 
Yf  the  said  Lamberte  die  withoute  Issue  said  lands  to  remayne  to  Christen  my  doughter  and  to  the 
heires  of  her  boddie,  and  for  lacke  of  such  issue  to  remayne  to  Elizabeth  my  doughter  and  to 
the  heires  of  her  boddie,  and  for  lacke  of  such  issue  to  remain  to  the  righte  heires.  To  the  poore 
of  Charlton  in  the  Countie  of  bedforde  where  as  the  aforesaide  Thomas  was  borne  tenn  poundes. 
Vnto  my  doughter  Christen  fortie  marks,  her  mother’s  wedding  ringe  &c.  Vnto  Anuis  my  doughter 
all  my  coppie  holde  landes  yn  dullingham  and  all  my  land  both  frie  and  coppie  in  Stechworth 
to  her  and  to  the  heires  of  her  boddie  lawfully  begotten.  And  after  her  deceace  I  bequeath 
them  vnto  Elizabeth  my  doughter  and  vnto  her  heires  for  ever.  I  bequeath  vnto  Elizabeth 
my  wief  all  suche  howseholde  stuff  as  she  brought  with  her  and  tenn  pounds  of  reddie  money 
and  iij  bullocks.  The  residue  of  my  brasse,  pewter  and  lynnen  shalbe  equallye  devided 
betweene  lambert  my  sonne  and  Christian  my  doughter,  and  Christian  to  have  first  choyce  for 
that  she  ys  yougest.  I  bequeath  vnto  Thomas  Burro  my  sonne  yn  lawe  and  vnto  my  doughter 
Elizabeth  his  wief  all  that  my  leace  and  term  of  yeres  which  is  graunted  me  by  the  lord. 
North.  Vnto  my  godson  John  fl'olks  xls  and  xx  combe  of  barley.  To  Edmonde  roulter,  Wittm 
Wrighte,  Wittm  Poulter,  Margaret  Poulter.  To  James  Sherman  xxd  to  helpe  Christen  to  a  mistres. 
I  bequeath  to  the  vicar  my  blaclte  gowne  faced  with  budge.  Lambarte  my  sonne  to  be  executor 
and  Thomas  Burro  my  sonne  in  lawe  overseer  and  Supervisor.  Sealed  in  the  presence  of  John 
Sycei’,  Alex)  raunow,  John  Sherman  and  Wyttm  Powlter  and  others.  P.C.C.  31  Mellershe. 


Mill  of  JHartba  irngbant,  1591. 

Martha  Heigham  of  Denham  in  the  County  of  Suff.  widowe  late  the  wyfe  of  Thomas 
Heigham  of  Denham  Esquyer.  I  giue  to  Charles  Clere  eldest  sonne  of  Thomas  Clere  of  Stokesby 
in  the  County  of  Norff.  Esquyer  and  of  Anne  his  wife  my  daughter  ffoure  hundred  poundes.  To 
Martha  Clere  daughter  of  the  said  Anne  twoe  hundred  markes,  and  to  Susan  Clere  the  second 
daughter  of  the  saide  Anne  one  hundred  pounds)  and  to  Marie  Clere  and  ffrauncs  Clere  two  other 
daughters  of  the  said  Anne  Clere  two  hundreth  marks  at  theire  severall  ages  of  twenty  and  one 


2 90  SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 

yeares.  To  Dorothye  Lewkenor,  Martha  Lewkenor,  Anne  Lewkenor,  Hester  Lewkenor,  Suzan 

Lewkenor,  Sara  Lewkenor,  and  to  Elizabeth  Lewkenor  daughters  of  Suzan  Lewkenor  my  daughter 
at  their  ages  of  twenty  and  one  yeares  or  their  severall  dayes  of  mariage.  My  plate  and  howsehold 
stuff,  and  all  my  hogge  slieepe  at  Elveden  and  five  hundred  of  my  ewes  at  JJownham  to  the 
saide  Anne  Clere  and  Suzan  Lewkenor  my  daughters.  Also  I  giue  to  the  Master  and  ffellowes 
of  Emanuell  Colledge  in  Cambridge  one  hundred  poundes  so  that  (they)  founde  a  perpetuall 
Scholershipp,  and  doe  bestowe  the  same  vppon  Timothy  Pricke  the  sonne  of  Robert  Pricke 

Preacher  of  the  worde  of  god  at  Denham  when  the  said  Timothy  shall  be  fitt  for  such  a  place. 

To  the  poore  of  Burye  S‘  Edmond  tenne  pounds,  Ac.,  Ac.  To  Sr  John  Higham  of  Barowe  a  golde 

ringe  that  was  my  husbandes  having  the  Heigliam  Armes  vppon  it.  And  to  my  sister  Copinger 
one  other  golde  ringe  that  hathe  in  it  the  Armes  of  the  Jermyns,  and  when  she  dyeth  I  desyre 
that  she  woulde  giue  it  to  her  sonne  Robert,  And  I  will  a  goulde  ringe  to  my  sister  Plater, 
and  to  my  nephewe  Edmund  Ashfielde  gent,  five  poundes.  Also  I  giue  to  my  godchildren  hereafter 
named  these  severall  somes.  To  Yrsula  Randolph  widowe  my  neece  the  daughter  of  my  saide 
sister  Copinger,  to  Judithe  Heigliam  the  daughter  of  S1'  John  Heigliam,  to  Martha  Jermyn  the 
daughter  of  1113-  nephewe  Thomas  Jerman,  to  my  godchilde  the  sonne  of  my  cosen  Thomas  Burlz, 
to  my  neece  Martha  De  La  Piende  and  her  daughter  Martha,  to  every  of  them  ffive  markes.  To 
Ceorge  Burro  the  sonne  of  Thomas  Burro  my  brother  in  lawe  ffive  poundes.  To  my  nephewe 
Henry  Copinger  the  sonne  of  my  sister  Copinger  ffive  markes.  Also  I  giue  to  my  sister  in  lawe 
Bridgett  Burro  to  make  herselfe  thereof  a  kirtle  a  peece  of  tuffed  taffita  abowte  three  yardes 
wliiche  I  lately  boughte.  And  to  Clement  Paman  of  Chevington  ffive  markes.  Also  I  bequeathe 
to  the  Cliurchewardens  of  Denham  and  to  theire  successors  my  greate  Englishe  Bible  of  the 
Geneva  translation  for  the  vse  of  the  parrishioners  in  the  Churche  there.  By  this  my  will  I 
devise  all  my  Mannors,  landes  tenements  and  liei-iditaments  to  the  uses  and  limitacons  expressed 
in  an  Indenture  dated  the  five.th  day  of  November  in  the  yeare  of  the  Quene  Mates  that  nowe 
is  the  three  and  thirtieth  made  betweene  me  of  the  one  parte  and  Sr  Robert  Jermyn  of  Rushbrooke 
and  others  of  the  other  parte.  I  appointe  Edwarde  Lewkenor  of  Denham  Esquier  my  sonne  in 
lawe  my  sole  and  onely  executor,  and  the  residue  of  all  my  goodes,  leases,  farmes,  and  the  issues 
of  my  lands  I  give  freely  to  the  said  Edward  for  ever.  And  of  this  will  I  doe  make  supervisor 
my  brother  John  Jermyn  of  Depden  Esquier  and  doe  give  vnto  him  for  his  paynes  twenty 
pounds.  I  have  sett  my  scale  thereto  and  subscribed  my  name  the  eighte  daye  of  November 
1591.  Probatum  tricesimo  die  July  1593  juramento  procuratoris  Edwardi  Lewknor  executoris. 

P.C.C.  55  Nevell. 


Still  nf  Sljom&s  jftrrronjl),  1595. 

Thomas  Burro  of  Wickhambrooke  in  the  Countie  of  Sufff  Gent.  12  May  1595.  Firste  my 
bodie  to  be  buried  in  the  chancell  of  Wickhambrooke  neere  where  Elizabeth  my  late  wife  was 
buried.  Secondlie  to  Bridget  my  wife  all  my  howses,  landes  Ac.  dureinge  her  naturall  life 
vppon  condition  that  she  doe  paie  yerely  to  Wiftm  my  sonne  fortie  poundes  and  keep  the 
couenantes  in  one  paire  of  Indentures  contained,  dated  4th  September  33  Elizabeth,  which  on  her 
parte  and  others  of  the  one  parte  and  William  Wooddall  Esquier  and  James  Wooddall  gent,  on 
the  other  parte  are  to  be  performed.  On  her  decease  I  giue  aforesaide  howses,  lands  Ac.  to 
William  my  sonne  and  to  his  heires  for  euer.  I  giue  to  Thomas  my  sonne  my  sealinge  ringe 
of  golde  and  my  sworde  and  dagger  wth  the  liiltes  of  Damasken  worke.  I  giue  vnto  George  my 
sonne  my  double  gymo  ringe  of  golde  and  a  greate  spoone  of  syluer  and  guilt  which  was  giuen 


A 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


297 


by  his  godfather  M>  Lewkenor  at  his  christeuinge.  I  will  that  my  yongest  sonnes  Thomas  and 
George  shall  enter  and  haue  all  those  goodes  and  cattells,  which  by  this  my  will  I  haue  geuen 
them,  at  theire  seuerall  ages  of  fouer  and  twentie  yeares.  I  will  that  John  Sadler  my  sonne  in 
lawe  be  paide  tenne  poundes  which  I  thinke  I  owe  him  of  the  twentie  poundes  I  promised  him 
with  my  daughter  his  wife  in  marriage.  My  daughter  Sadler,  her  sonne  Thomas  Sadler.  My 
sister  Cumin.  My  sister  Sherman.  My  sister  Reve.  My  godsons  Thomas  Bonde  and  Thomas 
Burro.  All  the  reste  of  my  goodes  to  William  my  sonne  and  his  heires,  and  that  he  enter  and 
haue  them  presentlie  after  my  death.  I  will  my  parsonage  of  Wickhambrooke  be  soulde  (to)  paie 
my  debtes,  the  overplus  to  remaine  to  my  two  yonger  scnnes  Thomas  and  George.  I  appointe 
William  my  sonne  executor  and  Charles  my  sonne  and  John  Sadler  my  sonne  in  lawe  overseers. 
I  will  my  executors  prouide  a  Tombe  to  be  laide  vppon  the  place  where  my  bodie  shalbe  buried, 
vppon  which  it  maie  appeare  what  wiues  I  haue  had  and  also  what  sonnes  and  daughters,  with 
somme  godlie  epathite  thereon  ingrauen.  Probatum  vicesimo  nono  die  Junij  1597  juramento 
procuratoris  Willimi  Burroe  filij.  P.C.C.  48  Cobham. 


JHarriage  Hmwtt  af  ®bnmas  Summed),  1610. 

Burrough,  Thomas,  Gent,  of  Sl  Dunstan’s  in  the  West,  bachelor,  aged  thirty  four,  son  of 
Thomas  Burrough,  late  of  Wickhambrook  in  the  countie  of  Suffolk,  Gent,  who  died  about  ten 
years  since,  and  Elizabeth  Harmon  of  the  parish  of  S‘  Michael  Basishaw,  aged  thirty  three  or 
thirty  four,  widow  of  James  Harmon  of  the  same,  Gent.,  who  died  about  two  years  since;  attested 
by  Anthony  White  of  the  same  parish,  goldsmith,  uncle  to  said  Elizabeth  ;  at  Sl  Mildred,  Bread 
Street;  13  Decr  1610.  Bishop  of  London’s  Office. 


Will  of  Jltarn  WoottljaU,  1611. 

I  Mai'y  Woodhall  of  Walden  in  the  Countie  of  Essex  wydowe,  late  wyfe  of  William 
Woodhall  of  Walden  aforesaid  Esquire,  doe  this  thirtieth  day  of  September  1611  make  and  declare 
this  my  will.  I  bequeath  my  soule  to  Allmightie  God,  trustinge  by  the  merritts  of  our  sweete  Savior 
Christ  Jesus  to  obteyne  forgiveness  of  all  my  synnes  and  to  be  made  partaker  of  everlastiuge 
happines  in  the  lyfe  to  come  :  my  body  to  be  decently  buried  in  the  pishe  church  as  neere  vnto 
my  husband  as  coveniently  may  be.  I  geve  to  my  sonne  William  Byrd,  Doctor  of  the  Civill 
lawe,  twentie  pounds  in  gold  and  my  guilt  salt.  To  my  sonne  Edmund  Woodhall  Esquire  my 
bason  and  ewer  of  silver  and  to  my  daughter  in  law  his  wyfe  my  braceletts  of  gold.  To  my 
sonne  Thomas  Byrd  twenty  poundes  in  money  and  one  of  my  beere  bowles  of  silver.  To  my  sonne 
George  Byrd  twenty  poundes,  one  of  my  white  beere  bowles  of  silver  and  my  olde  silver  pot  that 
was  my  ffathers.  To  my  two  sonnes  William  and  Grindall  Woodhall  one  hundred  and  ffiftie 
pounds  a  peece.  To  my  daughter  Debora  Calton  ffortie  pounds  not  to  be  paid  to  her  husbands 
hands  but  for  the  benefit  of  her  and  her  children.  To  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Burrouges  twenty 
pounds.  To  my  daughter  Dorothie  Woodcocke  twentie  poundes.  Whereas  I  haue  heretofore  geuen 
some  token  of  my  kinde  affection  to  my  daughter  Catherine  Barlee  and  that  shee  is  beter  provided 
for  certeine  stay  of  livinge  hereafter  than  anie  of  her  sisters,  I  doe  entreate  her  to  accept  of 

2  P 


298 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


my  goodwill  towardes  her  heretofore.  I  geve  to  my  daughter  Jane  twentie  pounds.  I  geve  to 
my  daughter  Calton’s  five  children,  viz*,  William,  Anthoney,  George,  Edmund  and  Michaell  Calton 
to  everie  of  them  five  pounds  a  peece  at  their  severall  ages  of  one  and  twentie  yeeres.  I  geve 
to  my  daughter  Burroughes  her  five  children,  viz1  Mary,  William,  Elizabeth.  Thomas  and  Edmund 
Burroughes  five  pounds  a  peece  at  their  severall  ages  of  one  and  twentie  yeeres  or  daye  of 
marriage  of  the  daughters.  To  my  daughter  Woodcocke  her  children,  beinge  eight  in  number,  five 
pounds  a  peece.  Vnto  my  daughter  Barlee  her  daughter  Grace  five  pounds  at  her  age  of  one 
and  twentie  yeares.  Vnto  my  sonne  Thomas  Byrd  his  three  children,  viz*  William,  Thomas  and 
Mary  to  every  of  them  five  poundes.  I  geve  more  to  Mary  Burroughes  my  Goddaughter  fortie 
shillings.  To  the  poore  of  the  Almshouse  in  Walden  six  pounds.  To  be  distributed  to  the  poore 
people  of  Walden  at  my  buriall  six  pounds.  Towards  the  repayringe  of  that  windowe  in  the 
church  of  Walden  wch  is  over  my  husbands  tombe  fortie  shillings.  I  make  my  sonnes  1  >octor 

Byrd  and  George  Byrd  my  executors.  And  Overseers  I  make  my  sonnes  Edmund  Woodhall  and 

Thomas  Byrd.  Brobatum  quarto  die  Novembris  1613  juramento  vcnerabilis  viri  Within  Byrd 

legum  doctoris  et  Georgij  Byrd  generos’  filiorum  nfalium  dicte  defunct.  P.C.C.  101  Capell. 


SStill  of  fftanj  Uurnmglj,  1624- 

The  Nuncupative  Will  of  M™  Mary  Borrough  deceased,  ffebruary  sixeteenth,  one  thousande 
sixe  hundred  twenty  flfowre.  In  primis  she  gave  to  hir  brother  Wittm  Borrough  ffoure  pounds. 
Item  to  hir  brother  Thomas  Borrough  ffoure  pounds.  Item  to  Mns  Grace  Barlee  one  bracelett. 
Item  to  Mns  Wysemam  a  payre  of  nevve  slietes.  To  Mris  Shawe  a  ringe.  These  things  she 
bequeathed  leavinge  &  appoyntinge  hir  sister  Mris  Elizabeth  Burrough  her  executor. 

An  Inventorie  of  the  goods  of  Mris  Mary  Burrough  deceased  as  aforesaide  prized  by  Mr  Henry 
Wiseman,  Godfry  Shaw  and  Thomas  Claydon.  In  ready  money,  seaventeeu  pounds.  Item  in 
wearinge  apparrell  wollen  &  lynnen,  ten  pounds.  Item  newe  lynnen  for  bed  A  table,  seaven 
pounds.  Item  spoones  rings  &  iewells  eight  pounds.  Item  ffloxe  &,  yarne  one  pound.  Item  two 
bonds  of  ffourty  pounds  oweinge  hir  in  Suffolke.  Probatum  vltimo  die  July  1625  juramento 
Elizabth  Burrough  sororis  dee  defuncti.  P.C.C.  80  Clarke. 


ffibanarj  flromtongs,  fBnrrcttjlj  t.  digits,  1625 

Charles  I,  B  and  A,  BB.,  102 ,  86. 

Humbly  complayning  sheweth  your  daily  Orator  George  Borough  of  Pettagh  in  the  County 
of  Suffolk,  clerke,  that  many  yeares  since  Sr  Thoms  Jermy,  late  of  Brightwell,  being  seised  of 
the  Mannor  and  advowson  of  Gosbecke,  then  full  of  oue  Andrew  Kinwellmarsh,  clerke,  who  is 
yet  living,  did  on  the  xxth  September  ixth  James  confirme  the  next  presentation  vnto  Thoms 
Mathew  of  Brightwell,  clarke,  who  granted  the  first  avoydance  to  Henry  Bowcer  of  Stansteed  in 
the  County  aforesaid,  clerke.  After  the  graunting  of  said  advowsion  Sr  Thoms  Jermy  sold  the 
Mannor  vnto  Wittm  Styles  of  Gosbeck  gent!  who  dwelt  wthin  the  pish.  Kinwelmarsh  having  other 
spirituall  livings  in  his  hands,  the  said  Church  of  Gosbecke  was  for  the  most  pte  a  long  time 
together  served  by  weake  and  vnable  curats.  Styles  and  the  rest  of  the  pishioners  being  much 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


299 


greived  therewith  and  desirous  to  have  a  good  Pastor  and  honest  Minister  to  instructe  them 
painefully  and  sincerely  in  the  true  doctrine  of  Christ  Jesus  to  theire  sowles  comforte,  in  and  aboute 
the  yeare  1619,  the  said  Styles  and  Nicholas  Allen  of  Gosbecke  gentl  repaired  to  yor  Orator  who 
was  at  that  time  Incumbent  of  Pettaugh,  being  the  next  pish,  and  made  knowen  theire  wishes. 
The  pishioners  were  most  willing  by  a  generall  contribucon  of  some  reasonable  some  of  money  out 
of  theire  private  purses  to  pcure  Kinwelmarsh  to  make  a  resignation.  Yet  it  was  not  in  the 
power  of  Styles  to  present  by  reason  of  the  assignment  to  Bowcer.  Not  longe  before,  Stiles  and 
the  pishioners  had  caused  Bovvcer’s  sonne,  being  Curate  there  vnder  Andrew  Kinwelmarsh,  to  bee 
thence  removed,  and  Bowcer  in  his  displeasure  would  not  assigne  his  interest  in  the  next  advowson 
but  vpon  an  extraordinary  deere  and  high  rate.  Theire  desire  and  purpose  was  that  yor  Orator 
might  succeed  Kinwelmarsh  iu  their  church,  and  knowing  that  Bowcer  and  yor  Orator  were  of  very 
inward  acquaintance,  they  moved  yor  Orator  to  treat  with  him  on  their  behalf,  yor  Orator  at  that 
very  time  having  just  refused  a  pastorall  charge  offered  by  one  Wiftm  Stebbing.  After  this  treaty 

Bowcer  assigned  over  his  interest  to  -  Sparrow  and  the  pishioners  procured  Kinwelmarsh  to  resign 

the  Church  to  the  ordinary.  Sparrow,  however,  surrendered  the  assignment  into  the  hands  of  Stiles 
who  proposed  that  yor  Orator  should  pay  twelve  pounds  p  aun  to  Mr  Kinwelmarsh  in  case  he  were 
thereunto  presented.  Your  Orator  vtterly  refused  to  be  p'sented  wth  other  than  a  clear  conscience 
before  God  and  Man.  Wherevpon  Styles  adventured  of  himself  to  pay  the  said  twelve  pounds,  but 
yr  Orator  would  not  consent.  Nicholas  Allen  by  way  of  mediation  made  apposition  that  Styles, 
who  had  a  sonne  whom  yor  orator  had  and  yet  hath  brought  vp  in  learning,  should  give 
yor  Orator  a  graunt  of  the  next  avoydance  in  as  ample  man 3  as  S1'  Thoms  Jermy  had  done  to 
Thomas  Mathew,  when  yor  Orator  might  wth  safetie  vndertake  to  free  him  from  the  payment  of 
the  twelve  pounds.  Yor  orator  was  accordingly  instituted  admitted  and  inducted.  Yor  Orator  left 
the  graunt  of  the  next  avoydance  of  the  said  church  in  the  custodie  of  Nicholas  Allen  in  trust 
that  a  good  minister  shall  be  presented  by  your  Orator’s  assignee  (should  your  Orator  happen  to 
die)  to  keepe  the  same  for  the  benefitt  of  your  Orator’s  wife  and  children.  But  Mr  Stiles  having 
conceaved  causeless  displeasure  against  yor  Orator  ffor  demanding  tith  of  ffower  and  twenty  acres 
of  wood  sold  by  the  said  Mr  Styles,  hath  now  giuen  out  yt  he  will  spend  y°  value  of  the  Mannor 
of  Gosbeck  rather  than  yr  sd  Orator  should  haue  ye  next  advowcon  soe  graunted.  And  the  said 
Styles  hath  not  pd  to  y®  sd  Kenwelmarsh  ye  xij1  p  annu,  and  hath  exhibited  a  bill  against  your 

Orator,  to  weare  out  your  Orator,  having  a  great  charg  of  children,  with  expenceful  suits  in  law, 

who  hath  nevertheless  in  a  true  &  carefull  manner  pformed  his  pastoral  duty  ever  since  his 
sd  incumbence  in  ye  sd  Church  of  Gosbecke.  May  it  please  yr  good  lopp  to  graunt  his  Mata  most 
gracious  Writ  of  Subpena  that  sd  William  Stiles  &  Nicholas  Allen  may  vpon  their  oathes  discover 
y®  truth,  to  y®  end  yl  yr  Orr  may  leaue  yl  little  small  pvision  for  his  sonue  who  is  thereby  to 
be  y®  only  stay  of  yr  sd  Or:  familie. 

In  his  answer  Nicholas  Allen  gent  says  that  the  grant  of  the  next  Advowson  of  Gosbeck 
church  was  made  to  Nicholas  Sparrow  brother  in  law  to  Complaynant.  The  difference  betwixt 

Complaynant  and  Mr  Styles  was  by  letters  from  the  late  Lord  Keeper  of  the  great  Seale  of  England 

referred  to  clteyn  gentn  and  they  finding  no  cause  to  relieve  the  Complt,  as  it  seemeth,  did 
forbeare  to  make  any  answare. 

The  statements  in  Styles  c  Burrough,  Cha5  I,  B  and  A,  SS.  75,  25,  A°  1625,  throw  much 
light  upon  this  complicated  suit.  Bowcer  agreed  with  George  Burrough,  Clarke,  then  &  yet  Viccar 
of  Pettaugh,  who  was  to  pay  him  lviu  for  the  next  avoydance  and  psentacon  to  Gosbeck. 
Burrough  pcured  one  Nicholas  Sparrowe  of  Gosbeck,  beinge  his  brother  in  la  we,  to  take  the 


300 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


grant  that  he  might  psent  him  when  the  church  became  voide.  Kynwelruarshe  havinge  other 
spirituall  livings  in  his  hands  Gosbecke  was  s]ved  a  long  tyme  together  by  weake  curats  and 
menn  of  infamous  lieff.  Yor  Orator  (Styles)  &  the  rest  of  the  pisshioners,  grieved  &  discon¬ 
tented,  dealt  with  Kinwellmarsh  about  his  resignacon,  who  being  very  ould  and  having  been 
Incumbent  there  well  nye  fiftye  yeares  agreed  y*  if  he  might  haue  xxv1  downe  in  ready  money 
&  xiju  a  yeare  more  dureing  his  liefF  he  would  resigne.  Burrough  seemed  very  thankefull 
and  pmised  great  love  and  3  vice  in  requitall  of  there  charge  and  pmised  to  pvide  a 
sufficient  Curate  to  s]ve  in  his  absence  wcU  would  cost  him  xx1  p  anii  more  than  the  xij1  that  he 
must  paie  to  Kinwelmarshe.  The  pishioners  paied  Kinwelmarshe  the  xxv1  out  of  their  owne  purses. 
Burrough  wanting  money  to  paye  Bowcer,  yor  Orator  (Styles)  became  bounden  with  him  as  his 
suertye  vnto  one  John  Reynolds  ats  Etheridge  father  in  lawe  to  Sparrowe  &  an  inhabitant  of  Gosbeck 
in  an  obligation  of  fower  score  pounds.  Yor  Orator  prays  the  Court  that  he  may  be  acquitted  thereof. 

George  Burrough,  fourth  and  youngest  son  of  Thomas  Burrough  of  Wickhambrook,  was 
baptized  there  on  the  26th  of  October  1579.  He  entered  Corpus  Christi  College,  Cambridge,  in 
1594,  was  admitted  to  Bishop  Nix’s  Scholarship  in  Trinity  Hall,  26th  May  1597,  and  took  his  degree 
of  LL.B.  in  1600.  He  was  ordained  priest  29th  Sept.  1604,  by  John,  Bishop  of  Norwich,  and  was 
instituted  the  same  year,  on  the  presentation  of  John  Turner,  Gentleman,  to  the  living  of  Pettaugh, 
the  sureties  for  his  First  Fruits  being  his  brother  Thomas  Burrough  of  the  parish  of  St.  Dunstan 
in  the  West,  London,  and  his  cousin  Thomas  Sherman.  In  1621  he  was  permitted  by  dispensation 
of  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  confirmed  under  the  Great  Seal,  14th  March  Jas.  I,  to  hold  the 
adjoining  rectory  of  Gosbeck  together  with  that  of  Pettaugh.  He  retained  Gosbeck,  and  perhaps 
Pettaugh,  during  the  Usurpation,  and  dying  at  the  age  of  seventy-four  was  buried  at  the  latter 
place  on  the  21st  of  February  1653. 

The  Editor  is  indebted  for  most  of  these  particulars  to  the  kindness  of  Dr.  Bensly,  the 
courteous  Registrar  of  the  Bishop  of  Norwich.  They  are  given  in  “  Consignation  Book,”  No.  3,  and 
in  the  Tanner  MSS.,  now  in  the  possession  of  the  see. 


®StiU  of  Sljontas  Ihimmglj,  1665. 

I  Thomas  Burrough  of  Newchurch  in  the  Isle  of  Wight,  13  Decr  1663,  make  my  will  in 
manner  and  forme  following.  First,  I  bequeath  my  soule  into  the  hands  of  Almightie  God  my 
Creator  and  Redeemer  and  my  Bodie  to  be  buried  in  my  parish  church.  Item,  vnto  my  brother 
William  Burrough  and  my  brother  Nathaniel  Burrough  and  my  sister  Frances  Burrough  my  land 
called  by  the  name  of  Spicers  during  their  liues  ioyntly,  and  after  theire  deceases  vnto  Charles 
Burrough  the  sonne  of  my  brother  Charles  Burrough.  I  giue  vnto  my  sister  Frances  Burrough  the 
sume  of  ffifty  pounds,  vnto  my  brother  William  Burrough  fifty  pounds  and  vnto  my  brother 
Nathaniell  fifty  pounds.  Vnto  Mistris  Barbarie  Loueing  all  the  Goods  in  my  house  which  I  bought 
of  her  Mothers  executors.  To  the  poore  of  my  parish  the  sum  of  fforty  shillings.  I  appoint  my 
loving  brother  Charles  Burrough  sole  executor.  Probatum  quinto  die  Maij  1664  juramento  Caroli 
Burroughs  ffratris.  P.C.C.  47  Bruce. 

Thomas  Bui’rough  was  instituted  to  the  Vicarage  of  Newchurch,  to  which  he  had  been 
presented  by  King  Charles  I,  1  Feb.  1641.  The  chancery  suit  of  Burrough  c.  Serle,  Mitford  II, 
clxiii,  in  which  Charles  Burrough  of  Ipswich  was  plaintiff,  relates  to  Newchurch  tythes,  unpaid  in 
the  lifetime  of  his  brother. 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


301 


Will  of  Jtatljanirii  ISnrroujjb,  1681. 

The  thirteenth  day  of  Decembr  1681  I  Nathaniel  Burrough  of  Limehouse  in  the  parish  of 
Stepney  in  the  County  of  Middx,  merchant  being  sick  in  body  and  calling  to  mind  the  uncertainty 
of  the  time  of  my  decease  doe  by  these  presents  declare  my  last  will.  I  give  unto  my  sonne 
George  Burrough  of  New  England  the  sume  of  twenty  pounds.  Unto  Anne  Wheeler  of  Limehouse 
widow  tenne  pounds  and  all  such  debts  as  are  justly  due  unto  me.  And  I  doe  nominate  the  said 
Anne  Wheeler  sole  executrix.  Probatum  vicesimo  tertio  Martij  1682  jurarn  A  nine  Wheeler  extrcis. 

P.C.C.  32  Drax. 


Will  of  Jloljtt  1685. 

John  Style  of  Stepney  in  the  County  of  Middx,  gent.  To  Elizabeth  Nurse  I  give  thirty  pounds 

and  to  Frances  Walshall  seaventy  pounds  to  be  abated  to  them  vpon  their  paying  six  hundred 

pounds  the  remainder  of  the  mortgage  money  chargeable  on  Glassenbury  house  in  Smithfield. 
To  Mr  Mathew  Meade  some  time  Minister  of  Stepney  twenty  pounds.  To  Doctor  Ainslow  of  Spittle 
ffeilds  tenn  pounds.  To  Seth  Powell  of  Barnard’s  Inn  London  gent  tenn  pounds.  To  my  sister  in 
law  Mre  Elizabeth  Short  twenty  shillings  to  buy  her  a  ring.  To  her  sonn  Peter  Short  five  pounds. 

To  Mrs  Lisle  forty  shillings  to  buy  her  a  ring.  To  Mrs  Mildmay  daughter  to  Mrs  Brewster  four 

pounds.  To  Mrs  Taylor  wife  to  Mr  Taylor  of  Barking  parish  tenn  pounds.  To  Mr  Graves  some 
time  Minister  of  Stepney  five  pounds.  To  William  Burrough  of  Staple  Inn  London  gent,  whome 
I  doe  make  sole  executor  forty  pounds,  he  to  give  a  true  accompt  of  his  executorship  from  time 
to  time  to  Seth  Powell  whome  I  make  overseer  of  this  will.  To  my  servant  Elizabeth  Yere  my 
household  goods.  Lastly  I  give  to  my  nephew  Mr  George  Burrough  of  New  England,  clerke,  all 
my  books  and  all  other  my  estates  which  shall  be  consigned  or  remitted  to  him.  The  six  and 
twentieth  day  of  October  1685.  Memorandum,  published  as  a  Codicill.  My  will  bearing  date  the 
five  and  twentieth  day  of  March  1680  wherein  I  devised  vnto  Richard  Hoare,  Cittizen  and  Goldsmith 
of  London,  that  parcell  of  a  Capitall  Messuage  in  West  Smithfield  London  called  Glassenbury  house 
together  with  four  Messuages  in  Cock  lane  shall  not  be  revoked.  And  I  doe  give  to  Mr  Austin 
Brewster  forty  shillings  to  buy  him  a  ring.  Probatum  tricesimo  die  Julij  1685  juramto  Willimi 
Burrough  execut.,  &c.  P.C.C.  101  Lloyd. 

John  Style  of  Staple  Inn,  co.  Middlesex,  gentleman,  acquired  Glassenbury  House  and  the 
Cock  Lane  property  by  his  marriage  with  Francis,  youngest  daughter  and  coheir  of  Ralph  Wilbraham 
of  Bashyn,  co.  Hereford,  Esq.,  and  relict  of  John  Hughes,  the  father  of  Frances  Walshall  mentioned 
in  the  will.  Wallsall  c.  Styles,  Mitford  II,  ccciv,  137. 


®tU  of  ffibarks  SurroxujI),  1689. 

Charles  Burrough  of  Ipswich,  Gent.,  15  Aug.  1689.  I  comend  my  soule  into  the  hands  of 
Allmighty  God,  my  body  to  be  interred  according  to  the  laudable  usage  of  the  Church  of  England. 
Unto  my  three  daughters  Elizabeth  Bridget  and  Susan  all  my  personal  estate  equally  to  be  divided 
between  them.  All  my  houses  ffarmes  and  lands  as  alsoe  the  use  of  all  my  household  stuffe  I  give 


302 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


to  Amy  my  loveing  wife  during  her  natural  life.  At  the  time  of  theire  said  mother’s  decease  I 
give  my  ffarme  and  lands  in  Westhall  unto  my  sonne  in  law  Mr  Thomas  Baxter  and  Amy  his  now 
wife  for  life  and  after  theire  decease  to  the  right  heires  of  the  said  Amy  for  ever,  they  to  pay  unto 
Elizabeth  Philipps  my  grandchild  one  hundred  pounds.  Unto  my  daughter  Elizabeth  one  other  ffarme 
in  Westhall  and  Hasleworth,  she  to  pay  Amy  Philipps  my  grandchild  fifty  pounds.  Unto  Richard 
Philipps  my  grandchild  my  house  in  Ipswich  and  also  annuity  of  foure  pounds  per  annum  out  of 
the  ffarme  in  Belsted  which  I  bought  of  Sr  Henry  Oapell,  he  to  pay  his  sister  Amy  Philipps  fifty 
pounds.  Unto  my  daughter  Bridget  my  ffarme  in  the  occupacon  of  Henry  Smith.  Unto  my 
daughter  Susan  lands  in  Somersham  &c.  Unto  my  brother  William  Purrough  and  his  wife  and  my 
cosen  William  Burrough  theire  sonne  five  pounds  a  piece  to  buy  them  mourning.  To  my  cosen 
George  Burrough  sonne  of  my  brother  Nathaniel  Burrough  twenty  pounds.  To  the  towne  of  Pettaugh 
five  pounds  for  the  poorest  and  most  ancient  of  the  said  parish  as  most  constantlie  come  to  hearc 
divine  service.  Amy  my  wife  to  be  sole  executrix.  Probatum  7  Julij  1690  juramento  Amim 
Burrough  viduse  et  relcte.  P.C.C.  101  Dyke. 


JHarriage  Xtmtse  of  Militant  $itrrmtglj,  1690- 

Burrough,  William,  of  Staple  Inn,  London,  bachelor,  aged  thirty,  and  Elizabeth  Burrough 
of  Ipswich,  spinster,  aged  twenty  four,  daughter  of  Amy  Burrough,  widow,  who  consents;  at 
S‘  Michael,  Wood  Street  or  S‘  Austin,  London;  17  October  1690.  Faculty  Office,  Archbishop  of 
Canterbury. 


( ISitrrottjjIj  of  (England,  1692, 

George  Burrough,  the  American  emigrant  of  the  seventeenth  century,  whose  name  in  his 
adopted  country  was  more  frequently  written  Burrowes,  is  best  known  as  the  chief  victim  of  the 
final  outburst  of  religious  fanaticism  which  tarnishes  the  history  of  the  New  England  settlements. 
His  whole  story  is  tinged  with  adventure.  Son  of  a  Limehouse  merchant  and  grandson  of  the 
puritan  Rector  of  Pettaugh,  it  is  probable  that  his  theological  leanings,  and  much  intercourse  with 
the  old  sea  dogs  of  his  native  place,  led  him  to  cross  the  Atlantic.  He  graduated  at  Harvard 
in  1670.  His  daughter  Rebecca  was  baptized  at  Roxbury  in  1674.  In  1676  we  find  him  preaching 
at  Falmouth,  in  the  province  of  Massachusetts,  with  such  acceptance  that  the  community  granted 
him  two  hundred  acres  for  his  services.  Scarcely  wras  he  thus  settled  when  the  Indians,  thirsting  for 
blood,  swooped  down  upon  the  place  and  massacred  its  inhabitants.  With  such  as  survived  he 
escaped  to  Bang’s  Island  in  the  harbour,  from  whence  he  wrote  the  details  of  the  disaster  which 
were  forwarded  to  the  Governor  and  Council  at  Boston.  In  1680  he  was  ministering  at  Salem, 
where  unhappily  he  made  enemies,  but  had  returned  to  Falmouth  in  1683.  Again  the  Indians  sacked 
the  place,  and  again  he  escaped  with  his  life.  On  the  8th  of  May  1692,  he  was  charged  with 
witchcraft  and  sent  to  prison.  The  official  records  of  his  trial  on  the  3rd  of  August  following  are 
a  sufficient  vindication  of  his  character,  His  indictment,  dated  9th  May  in  the  4th  year  of  William 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKH AMBROOK. 


303 


and  Mary,  King  and  Queen  of  England,  sets  forth  that  George  Bin-rough,  late  of  Falmouth  in  the 
province  of  Massachusetts  Bay,  clerk,  had  used  those  detestable  arts  called  Witchcraft  within  the 
town  of  Salem  against  one  Mary  Walcott  and  others,  she  being  thereby  tortured,  consumed,  wasted 
and  tormented,  against  the  peace  of  our  Sovereign  Lord  and  Lady,  the  said  King  and  Queen. 
Witnesses  confessed  that  he  had  administered  witch  sacraments  at  their  meetings.  Their  testimony, 
such  as  it  was,  was  corroborated  by  circumstantial  evidence.  Burrough  was  a  man  of  extraordinary 
strength  and  activity.  On  one  occasion  he  had  carried  a  cask  of  cyder  unaided  from  a  canoe  to 
the  shore  ;  and  on  another  had  lifted,  and  whirled  around  him,  a  barrel  of  molasses  by  putting  his 
finger  in  the  bunghole  ;  and  on  yet  another  had  held  out  a  gun  of  seven  feet  barrel  with  one 
hand.  Upon  his  urging  that  an  Indian,  who  was  present  on  the  last  occasion,  had  done  the  same,  it 
was  answered  by  his  accusers  that  the  latter  must  have  been  the  Devil,  who,  the  witnesses  swore, 
looks  like  an  Indian.  It  was  said  that  his  house  was  haunted  with  spirits,  that  he  could  tell  what 
his  wives  (for  he  had  been  two  or  three  times  married)  had  been  doing  during  his  absence,  and 
that  he  knew  their  secret  thoughts  Incredible  as  it  may  seem,  he  was  convicted  on  evidence  like 
this.  He  was  hanged  on  the  19th  of  August,  on  the  Gallow’s  Hill  at  Salem.  His  last  prayer  at 
his  funeral,  for  he  was  buried  immediately  afterwards,  was  so  solemn,  pertinent  and  affecting,  that 
Cotton  Mather,  the  fanatical  divine,  who  had  busied  himself  at  his  accusation,  trial  and  execution,  and 
who  had  preached  when  his  last  struggle  had  ended,  was  driven  to  say  that  no  man  could  have 
made  such  a  prayer  unless  the  devil  had  helped  him. 

But  the  witch  finders  had  gone  too  far.  A  man  of  blameless  life,  of  unusual  attainments  and 
of  singular  generosity,  had  been  judicially  murdered,  and  public  opinion  began  to  turn.  One  month 

later,  Giles  Cory,  the  last  that  suffered  from  these  wretched  charges,  refusing  to  plead,  was  pressed 

to  death.  Nineteen  persons  had  been  killed,  professing  their  innocence.  The  gaol  at  Salem  was 
full  of  prisoners.  Accusations  were  bandied  about  in  all  directions,  implicating  members  of  the 
Council  and  even  the  Governor’s  wife,  Lady  Phipps.  It  became  clear  to  all  right  thinking  persons 
that  an  end  must  be  made  to  so  dangerous  a  movement.  At  the  Court  in  January  all  the  prisoners 
were  practically  acquitted.  Mr.  Sewall,  one  of  George  Burrough’s  judges,  at  a  public  fast, 
acknowledged  the  error  he  had  made,  and  desired  to  humble  himself  in  the  sight  of  God.  In  1711, 

the  Government,  confessing  the  wrong  doing,  at  the  instance  of  Charles  Burrough,  one  of  his  sons, 

made  such  restitution  as  was  in  their  power,  and  granted  special  provision  for  his  heirs,  who  still 
held,  it  would  seem,  the  two  hundred  acres  which  had  been  given  him  at  Roxbury. 

George  Burrough  kept  up  his  intercourse  with  his  English  kinsmen  almost  up  to  the  day  of 
his  decease.  He  was  the  chief  heir  to  his  father  in  1C81  and  to  his  uncle,  John  Styles,  in  1685. 
In  1689,  another  uncle,  Charles  Burrough  of  Ipswich,  remembered  him  in  his  will.  He  corresponded, 
mostly  on  business  matters,  with  William  Burrough  of  Staple  Inn,  his  cousin  german,  as  late  as 
1692.  His  affairs  are  referred  to  in  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  Fere  c.  Burrough,  Mitford  III,  cccxci, 
and  Burrough  c.  Buckland,  Mitford  III,  ccccxii.  He  had  many  children.  By  her  marriage  with  Peter 
Thomas  of  Boston,  liis  daughter  Elizabeth  became  the  ancestress  of  a  numerous  and  distinguished 
progeny,  Isaiah  Thomas,  LL.D.,  who  founded  the  American  Antiquarian  Society,  being  one  of 
her  descendants.  Authorities  : — Savage’s  “  Genealogical  Dictionary,”  Hutchinson’s  “  History  of 
Massachusetts,”  Sewall’s  “  Diary  and  Letter  Book  in  the  Collections  of  the  .Massachusetts  Historical 
Society,”  “New  England  Historical  and  Genealogical  Register,”  Vol.  i,  37,  &c.,  Ac. 


304 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  uf  Amy  fBarrmtgb,  1700. 

This  is  ye  last  will  and  testam1  of  me  Amy  Burrough  of  Ipswich,  widdow,  made  ye  twentieth 
day  of  Decemb  1700.  First  I  give  unto  ye  three  children  of  my  late  daughter  Philips  ye  surhe  of 
one  hundred  pounds  to  be  equally  devided  between  them.  Unto  my  daughter  Amy  ye  wife  of 
Mr  John  Felton  ye  like  sume,  Unto  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Burrough,  widow,  ye  like  surhe.  Unto 
my  grandaughter  Susan  Gibson  ye  like  suhie.  My  sonn  in  law  James  Gibson  to  pay  ye  interest  of 
one  hundred  pounds  (devised  to  him  &  ye  sd  Amy  Felton  &  Elizabeth  Burroughe  upon  this  trust) 
unto  my  daughter  Bridgett  now  ye  wife  of  Mr  Thomas  Witherden,  towards  her  seperate  maintenance. 
In  case  ye  said  Thomas  Wetherden  shall  survive  her  ye  interest  to  be  paid  yearly  unto  my 
grandaughter  Bridget  Witherden  towards  her  maintainance  untill  she  shall  attaine  her  age  of  one 
&  twenty  yeares  or  day  of  marriage.  I  hereby  nominate  and  appoint  ye  sd  Amy  Felton,  Elizabeth 
Burrough  &  James  Gibson  to  be  ye  executr  &  executrixes  of  this  my  will.  I  give  vnto  ym  all 
my  psonall  estate — ye  overplus  to  be  equally  devided  between  ym.  I  desire  my  said  executors  to 
see  me  decently  buried  in  Sfc  Margaretts  church  in  Ipswich  as  near  unto  my  late  husband  as 
conveniently  may  be.  Signed  sealed  &c.  in  ye  |?sence  of  Elizabeth  Clarke,  Elizabeth  Deering, 
Simon  Blomfield.  Probatum  fuit  septimo  die  Novembris  1701  Juramtia  Elizabethae  Burrough  et 
Jacobi  Gibson  duorum  Executorum.  Reservata  potestate  An  me  Felton  alteri  exrum  noiat  simile  onus 
in  se  acceptaturse  vel  eidem  renuntiaturae  cum  venerit.  Endorsed  “  Madam  Burrough’s  will.” 

Heraldic  seal  with  the  two  chevrons  and  the  three  chaplets. 

Arch.  Suffolk.  Original  Wills,  1701,  No.  92. 


Mill  of  ®Ijomas  Higbmor^  1719. 

Thomas  Highmore  Esqr,  Sergeant  Painter  to  his  Majesty.  To  my  son  John  Highmore  all 
my  real  and  personal  estate  (except  one  moiety  of  the  household  goods,  linnen,  plate,  and  other 
ffurniture  in  my  houses  at  Duke  Street  or  at  Hampton  Court)  chargeable  with  the  payment  of 
two  thousand  pounds  beimg  part  of  the  marriage  porcon  of  my  daughter  Margaret  Burrough 
pursuant  to  the  trusts  declared  in  Indenture  tripartite,  dated  the  one  and  thirtieth  January  1717, 
between  me  and  my  said  daughter  of  the  one  part,  my  said  son  and  Elizabeth  Burrough  of  the 
second  part  aud  my  son  in  law  William  Burrough  of  the  third  part.  I  give  to  my  said  daughter 
one  moiety  of  the  household  goods  &c.  in  my  said  houses  in  Duke  Street  or  at  Hampton  Court. 
To  my  brother  Edward  Highmore,  my  sister  Elizabeth  Burnell  and  my  sister  Rachell  Rawlins 

the  yearly  sum  of  ten  pounds  each.  To  my  cousins  Samuel  Highmore,  Nathaniel  Highmore, 

Edward  Highmore,  Joseph  Highmore,  Mary  Highmore,  Elizabeth  Goldfinch,  Samuel  Burnell  and 
Thomas  Burnell  the  sum  of  two  pounds  each  for  mourning.  I  give  to  my  said  daughter  Margaret 
eight  hundred  pounds  over  and  above  what  I  have  hereinbefore  bequeathed  to  her.  To  such  poor 
people  living  within  the  parishes  of  S‘  James  Westmr  and  Hampton  as  my  executor  shall  think 
proper  objects  of  charity  the  suhi  of  ten  pounds  to  be  divided  among  them  as  he  shall  see 
fitt.  I  appoint  my  said  son  John  Highmore  whole  and  sole  executor.  In  witness  whereof  I  have 

here  unto  sett  my  hand  and  seal  this  fifth  day  of  March  1719.  Probatum  decimo  octavo  die 

Martij  1719  juramento  Joins  Highmore  armigeri  filij  dicti  defuncti.  P.C.C.  62  Shaller. 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKH AMBROOK. 


305 


Will  of  Joljit  fBnrronglj,  1724. 

I  John  Burrough  of  Ipswich,  Gent.,  do  make  this  my  last  will  in  manner  following.  I 
give  to  my  daughter  Mrs  Amy  Blois  ffifty  pounds  for  mourning  and  to  her  husband  Robert 
Blois  Esqr  the  like  sum.  To  my  brother  in  law  Richard  Rhilipes  Esqr  ten  guineas  to  buy  him 
a  ring  in  remembrance  of  me.  To  my  brother  in  law,  Mr  Francis  Coleman  and  my  nephew 
Mr  Philips  Coleman  his  son  ten  guineas  a  peice.  To  my  sister  Mre  Pister  and  to  her  son  in 
law  Mr  George  Prettyman  junr  and  Jane  his  wife  my  neice,  one  guinea  apeice  to  buy  them 
rings.  I  give  the  sum  of  one  hundred  pounds,  which  I  will  shall  be  laid  out  by  Mr  Robert 
Edgar,  Mr  John  Catchpoole,  Mr  Benjamin  Crocker  and  Mr  Robert  Manister,  all  of  Stephen’s  parish 
in  Ipswich,  in  the  purchase  of  land,  in  trust  that  the  profitts  of  the  said  premisses  shall  yearly 
be  laid  out  in  bread  and  be  distributed  amongst  the  poor  of  said  parish  who  shall  attend  divine 
service  there,  so  often  as  there  shall  be  a  sermon.  I  give  all  my  messuages,  lands,  and  real 
estate  and  the  residue  of  my  personal  estate  unto  my  dear  and  loving  wife  Amy  Burrough,  and 
constitute  her  sole  executrix.  The  thirteenth  day  of  June  1721.  Probatum  vicesimo  quinto  die 
Augusti,  1727,  juramento  Amice  Burrough  executricis.  P.C.C.  180  Farrant. 

Mill  ot  ^ntn  iBfots,  1752. 

Amy  Blois  of  Grundisburgh  in  the  county  of  Suffolke,  widow.  To  be  decently  interred  in 
Westminster  Abbey  for  which  I  direct  my  executrix  hereafter  named  to  expend  the  snme  of  one 
hundred  pounds.  I  give  and  bequeath  to  my  mother  the  Lady  Kemp  my  diamond  necklace,  ear 
rings  and  ring.  I  give  to  my  uncle  Coleman  twenty  pounds  to  buy  him  a  ring.  I  give  to  my 
cousin  Coleman  twenty  pounds  to  buy  a  ring.  To  my  cousin  Prettyman  teun  pounds  to  buy  a 
ring.  I  give  thirty  pounds  to  be  distributed  to  parsons  widowes  and  orphans.  I  give  twenty 
pounds  to  the  poore  debtors  in  Ipswich  Gaol.  I  also  direct  that  my  manors  of  Grundisburgh, 
Burgh  Hall  and  Cleaves  in  the  County  of  Suffolke  be  soli  to  Sir  Charles  Blois  if  he  will  give 
a  thousand  pounds  for  it  to  pay  my  debts  and  legacies.  All  the  rest  I  give  to  my  said  mother 
the  Lady  Kemp  who  I  appoint  my  sole  executrix.  Eighth  March  1732.  Proved  at  London  17 
Aprill  1733,  by  the  oath  of  Dame  Amy  Kemp  (the  wife  of  Sr  Robert  Kemp,  Barronet)  the 
mother  of  said  deceased  and  sole  executrix.  P.C.C.  109  Price. 

(Still  vf  (Slijafotlj  jSurmtglj,  1741. 

Elizabeth  Burrough  of  the  parish  of  Sfc  George’s  Bloomsbury  in  the  county  of  Middlesex 
widow.  I  commend  my  soul  to  Almighty  God  hoping  to  be  accepted  for  the  meritts  of  my  blessed 
Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  commit  my  body  to  the  earth  to  be  decently  and  privately  buried 
in  the  middle  aisle  of  the  church  of  S*  Andrews  Holboru  in  the  vault  wherein  my  late  husband 
William  Burrough  and  William  Burrough  my  son  do  both  lye  interred,  and  that  in  about  a  week 
after  my  decease.  To  my  daughter  Margaret  Burrough  one  guinea  for  a  ring.  To  my  three 
grandsons  Thomas  Burrough,  and  William  Burrough  and  Charles  Burrough  each  of  them  one  guinea 
for  a  ring,  My  executor  shall  provide  my  grandson  William  Burrough,  who  is  gone  to  sea,  with 
necessarys  for  the  first  two  years  as  I  was  obliged  to  do.  I  devise  the  residue  of  my  personal 
estate  to  my  three  grandsons  Thomas  Burrough,  William  Burrough  and  Charles  Burrough  equally. 
Lastly  I  nominate  James  Hughes  of  the  parish  of  S‘  George’s  Bloomsbury  sole  executor  this 
thirteenth  day  of  March  1741.  On  the  twenty  first  day  of  October  1743  Admon  of  the  goods  of 
Elizabeth  Burrough,  widow,  were  granted  to  William  Burrough  the  grandson  and  one  of  the 
residuary  legatees,  for  that  James  Hughes  the  executor  named  in  the  will  renounced  the  execution. 

P.C.C.  304  Boycott. 

2  Q 


306 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  5  ante  ^rnn  Hemp,  1745. 

Dame  Amy  Kemp  of  Kesgrave  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  widow.  To  Philips  Col  man  of 
Ipswich  Esqr  and  to  Elizabeth  his  wife  the  sum  of  1  fifty  pounds  each,  having  already  made  him 
a  present  of  seven  hundred  pounds  in  the  month  of  July  last  past,  as  also  a  present  of  all  my 
Jewells  to  the  said  Mrs  Colman.  Also  I  give  to  Martha  the  wife  of  Mr  Dorrell  Short,  to  Thomas 
Hodges  of  Ipswich  Esquire  and  to  the  Reverend  Mr  Thomas  Bishop  of  the  same  town  ffifty  pounds 
each.  I  give  to  the  Corporation  lately  erected  for  the  Relief  of  the  Clergyman’s  Widows  within 
the  County  of  Suffolk  the  sum  of  one  hundred  pounds  and  to  the  Hospital  School  in  Ipswich  the 
sum  of  two  hundred  and  fforty  pounds  which  I  will  shall  be  paid  to  the  major  part  of  the  Portmen 
of  the  said  town.  I  desire  to  be  buryed  under  the  seat  I  usually  sit  in  in  the  Church  of 
Kesgrave,  late  at  night  in  a  very  private  manner,  and  that  my  corpse  may  be  carryed  there  by 
twelve  Poor  Men  of  the  said  parish  to  whom  I  give  for  their  trouble  ffive  shillings  each.  To  the 

poor  of  Kesgrave  ffive  pounds  ;  also  to  the  Minister  who  shall  perform  the  duty  of  my  ffuneral 

the  sum  of  six  guineas  for  a  ring.  The  rest  of  my  estate  I  give  to  my  brother  Richard  Phillips 

Esquire  and  I  appoint  him  sole  executor.  The  eleventh  day  of  October  1745.  Proved  the 

eighteenth  day  of  ffebruary  by  the  oath  of  Richard  Philips  Enquire.  P.C.C.  53  Edmunds. 


Mill  of  loljtt  Higijntonv  1757- 

I  John  Highmore  of  the  parish  of  Saint  Paul  Covent  Garden  in  the  Couuty  of  Middlesex 
Esquire  being  in  declining  health  and  not  knowing  how  soon  it  may  please  God  to  take  me  out 

of  this  transitory  life  do  therefore  make  my  will.  First  and  principally  I  commend  my  soul  to 

God  and  my  body  to  the  earth  to  be  decently  buried  in  a  genteel  and  handsome  manner  in  the 
vault  in  the  parish  church  of  Saint  James  Westminster,  and  I  do  particularly  enjoyn  my  executor 

that  my  body  be  put  in  a  substantial  leaden  coffin  within  one  of  the  most  durable  kind  of  wood 

and  that  the  lid  be  kept  open  and  not  fixed  down  until  immediately  before  my  interment  which  I 
desire  may  not  be  made  within  the  space  of  ten  days  after  my  decease  unless  my  corpse  will  not 

admit  of  being  so  long  kept.  I  give  to  my  nephew  Thomas  Burrough  my  executor  the  sum  of  ten 

pounds  in  trust  that  he  do  pay  the  same  to  the  Churchwardens  and  Overseers  of  S‘  James 
Westminster  to  be  by  them  distributed  amongst  the  poor.  Also  ten  pounds  to  the  Churchwardens 
and  Overseers  of  Hampton  in  the  County  of  Middlesex  for  the  same  purpose.  To  my  cousin  Mary 
Sheaf,  wife  of  .  .  .  Sheafe  the  sum  of  twenty  pounds  for  mourning  and  to  .  .  .  Burnel,  daughter  of 
my  late  cousin  Thomas  Burnel  the  sum  of  twenty  pounds.  Also  I  will  my  executor  pay  a  bond 
given  by  him  to  my  late  cousin  the  Reverend  Mr  Samuel  Highmore  for  payment  of  sixty  three 
pounds  with  interest.  Also  I  require  him  to  pay  one  other  bond  given  to  one  .  .  .  Neale  for  the 
use  of  the  twro  daughters  of  William  Cler,  vintner,  late  of  Stafford  Street  in  the  parish  of  S‘  George 
Hanover  Square.  I  require  that  all  bonds  given  me  by  my  late  cousin  Elizabeth  Goldfinch  widow 

and  my  said  cousin  Mary  Sheaf  and  her  husband  shall  be  .cancelled.  Also  I  will  that  all  bonds 

given  me  by  my  nephews  Thomas  Burrough  and  William  Burrough  be  cancelled  and  I  give  to  my 
said  nephew  William  Burrough  the  sum  of  eight  pounds  for  mourning  and  a  mourning  ring  of  one 
Guinea  value,  also  the  sum  of  two  hundred  pounds.  I  devise  him  for  his  life  one  annuity  of  ffifty 
pounds  out  of  my  lands.  I  heartily  hope  and  hereby  admonish  my  nephew  and  executor  Thomas 
Burrough  as  my  dying  request  that  he  will  from  time  to  time  preserve  brotherly  love  and  affection 
towards  my  said  nephew  William  and  render  him  the  best  advice  and  services  in  his  power.  I 
bequeath  my  said  nephew  Thomas  Burrough  a  mourning  ring  of  one  Guinea  value  to  be  worn  in 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


307 


remembrance  of  me,  also  the  residue  of  my  estate,  and  I  do  appoint  him  sole  executor.  In  witness 
whereof  I  have  to  this  my  will  written  on  one  skin  of  parchment  set  my  hand  and  seal  the 
second  day  of  August  1756. 

Since  making  my  last  will  I  have  thought  proper  by  way  of  Codicil  to  make  the  following 
alterations  therein.  I  now  exempt  the  ffarm  at  Bramford  near  Ipswich  in  Suffolk  and  the  ffreehold 
house  in  Old  Bond  Street  and  my  personal  estate  from  being  chargeable  for  the  annuity  to  my 
nephew  William  Burrough.  But  as  to  the  large  ffreehold  house  in  Albemarl  Street  lett  by  lease  to 
the  Bight  Honrable  Elizabeth  Countess  of  Kildare,  the  Coach  houses  and  stables  in  Ormand  Mews 
and  the  lands  in  Islington  and  all  other  lands  I  may  dye  possessed  of  it  is  my  will  that  they 
should  stand  as  security  for  said  annuity.  Amongst  my  personal  estate,  besides  money,  Stock  in 
the  publick  ffunds  Ac.  I  may  probably  dye  possessed  of  a  considerable  quantity  of  plate  and  china 
ware,  some  gold  and  some  silver  watches,  some  genteel  ffamily  seals,  some  diamond  and  some  gold 
ffamilv  rings,  some  pictures  of  considerable  value,  part  of  them  being  portraits  of  my  ffamily,  a 
considerable  collection  of  books  besides  linnen  furniture  and  curiosities,  I  earnestly  desire  my  said 
nephew  Thomas  Burrough  that  with  the  affection  of  a  worthy  and  truly  loving  brother  he  will 
cause  (certain)  bequeathed  effects  to  be  delivered  into  the  hands  of  my  said  nephew'  William,  and 
I  recommend  it  to  him  that  he  will  be  as  much  more  bountifull  to  his  said  brother  as  he 
reasonably  can  in  things  not  absolutely  enjoined  by  my  will.  My  cousin  Mr  Joseph  Highmore  of 
Lincoln  Inn  Feilds  his  son  and  daughter  and  my  cousin  Mra  Mary  Sheaf  likewise  the  sons  of 
my  late  cousin  the  Keverend  Mr  Samuel  Highmore  and  the  sons  and  daughters  of  my  late 
cousin  Mr  Nathaniel  Highmore  I  desire  may  be  invited  to  my  ffuneral  and  that  a  mourning  ring 
of  one  Guinea  value  may  be  presented  to  each  of  them.  As  for  my  nephew  William  Burrough 

should  he  be  so  far  distant  from  London  as  he  now  is  it  will  be  much  too  far  for  him  to 

travel  to  town  to  attend  my  ffuneral.  Mr  Benjamin  Ivishire  of  Poland  Street  whom  I  formerly 
appointed  undertaker  of  the  ffuneral  of  my  late  sister  I  now  appoint  undertaker  of  my  own.  I 
the  said  John  Highmore  have  to  this  codicil  set  my  hand  and  seal  the  thirtieth  day  of  January 

1757  in  the  presence  of  John  Gubbins,  Sarah  Gubbins,  David  Ewart  Not.  Pub. 

This  will  was  proved  with  codicil  annexed  the  fourth  day  of  April  1759  by  the  oath  of 
Thomas  Burrough  Esquire  the  sole  executor.  P.C.C,  133  Arran. 

Towai’ds  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century  the  period  between  death  and  interment, 
which  in  the  time  of  Queen  Elizabeth  and  James  the  First  had  been  but  one  or  twTo  days,  became 
considerably  lengthened,  apparently  from  a  dread  which  had  developed  itself  in  the  public  mind 
of  being  buried  alive.  Indeed  directions  were  not  unfrequently  given  by  will,  as  in  the  present 
instance,  for  a  still  more  protracted  delay ;  some  testators  even  insisting  that  their  body  should 
be  kept  an  entire  fortnight  in  an  open  coffin  before  it  was  finally  committed  to  the  ground. 


®iil  af  ®I)omas  Jtomntglj,  1772, 

This  is  the  last  will  of  me  Thomas  Burrough  of  the  parish  of  Saint  Martin  in  the  ffields 
in  the  county  of  Middlesex,  Esquire,  but  now  residing  at  Guildford  in  Surrey.  I  give  unto 
Nathaniel  Highmore  of  the  Mayor’s  Court  Office,  London,  gentleman,  all  my  lands  near  Holloway 
in  the  county  of  Middlesex  for  life,  and  after  his  decease  to  my  neice  Mary  the  wife  of  John 
Strong  of  the  city  of  Carlisle,  gentleman,  her  heirs  and  assigns  for  ever.  .  .  I  give  to 
Nathaniel  Highmore  aforesaid  and  Thomas  Sibthorpe  of  the  Middle  Temple  London,  gentleman,  all 
other  my  messuages  Ac.  whatsoever,  upon  the  several  trusts  herein  expressed.  In  the  first  place 


308 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


to  suffer  Mary  Street  of  Stoke  next  Guildford,  spinster,  to  take  out  of  my  messuages  in  Albemarle 
Street  and  Ilond  Street  and  Ormond  Mews  the  yearly  sum  of  eighty  pounds  for  her  natural  life  : 
and  further  to  pay  unto  my  neice  Mary  the  wife  of  John  Strong  the  annual  sum  of  twenty 
pouuds,  to  my  nephew  John  Burrough  the  annual  sum  of  twenty  pounds,  to  my  nephew  Charles 
Burrough  the  annual  sum  of  twenty  pounds,  to  my  niece  Margaret  Burrough  the  annual  sum  of 
ftifteen  pounds,  to  my  noice  Elizabeth  Burrough  the  annual  sum  of  ffifteen  pounds.  From  the 
decease  of  Mary  Street,  Nathaniel  Highmore  and  Thomas  Sibthorpe  shall  stand  seized  of  said 

messuages  for  the  use  of  my  said  nephews  John  Burrough  and  Charles  Burrough  and  my  said 
neices  Margaret  Burrough  and  Elizabeth  Burrough.  Said  Nathaniel  Highmore  and  Thomas  Sibthorpe 
to  sell  my  messuage  at  Guildford.  To  John  Ewart  of  Brampton  in  the  county  of  Cumberland 
the  sum  of  fforty  pounds,  as  a  token  of  my  grateful  remembrance  of  the  kindness  he  has  shewn 
to  myself,  nephews  and  neices.  To  my  servant  James  Blanch  the  sum  of  ffive  hundred  pounds. 
I  do  direct  that  the  clear  residue  of  my  personal  estate  shall  be  divided  into  five  equal  parts, 
and  executors  shall  pay  one  part  to  Mary  Strong,  one  to  John  Burrough,  one  to  Charles  Burrough, 
one  to  Margaret  Burrough  and  the  remaining  part  to  Elizabeth  Burrough.  And  I  do  appoint 

the  said  Nathaniel  Highmore  and  Thomas  Sibthorpe  to  be  executors.  1  do  declare  this  only  to 
be  my  last  will  this  seventh  day  of  December  1772. 

By  Codicil  dated  7  Novr  1775  the  testator  devised  his  messuage  at  Guildford  to  James 
Blanch  his  servant  and  his  heirs  for  ever.  By  another  Codicil,  7th  June  1776,  he  left  to  the 
said  James  Blanch  all  his  printed  books,  his  bureaus,  salts,  drinking  glasses,  china,  table  clock 
made  by  Tho.  Tompion,  his  ffurniture  Ac.  Ac.  ;  to  the  wife  of  Mr  Anthony  Highmore  and  the 
longest  liver  of  her  daughters,  his  gold  repeating  watch;  to  Anthony  Highmore  junior  his  small 
gold  watch  with  the  gold  chain  and  seals  thereunto  belonging. 

This  will  was  proved,  with  Codicils,  the  seventh  day  of  November  1780  by  the  oaths  of 

the  executors.  P.C.C.  504  Collins. 


JSurnmgb  IBrass  at  Mitkbambroob. 

In  the  chancel,  against  the  south  wall  and  deeply  inserted  within  it  and  protected  by  a 
wooden  screen,  are  several  brass  plates,  consisting  of  a  man  in  a  gown,  with  ruff  and  short  hair, 
standing  between  his  two  wives,  with  ruffs  fly  caps  and  embroidered  petticoats;  beneath  them  the 
following  inscription  in  Roman  capitals  : — 

Anno  /Etatis  suae  66. 

Neare  to  this  place  lyeth  burved  the  Body  of 
Thomas  Burroughe,  Gent.,  first  maryed  to  Elizabeth 
Burwell,  secondly  maryed  to  Briget  Higham,  who 
dyed  the  xixth  of  June  1597,  whos  Soule  Resteth  wth  God. 

Above  are  three  coats  of  arms,  painted  on  brass. 

Dexter  Side,  Burrough,  Arg.  two  chevrons  between  three  chaplets  Azure  (query  Vert), 
impaling — blank. 

Sinister  Side,  BuRROUGn,  impaling  Higham,  Sa.  a  fesse  checquy  Or  and  Az.  between  three 
horses  heads  erased  Argent. 

In  the  centre,  Burrough  alone. 

Crest : — A  griffin’s  head  couped  Arg.  beaked  Or,  charged  on  the  neck  with  two  chev8 
Az.  (Vert.). 

Motto  : — Constantiam  Diligo. 

Over  the  heads  of  the  figures : — Dexter  side,  two  sons  and  one  daughter.  Sinister  side, 
three  sons  and  three  daughters.  Davy  MSS.,  Mus.  Brit. 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


309 


Inscription,  S>t  Jltargarct's  ttbnrclj,  Ipstoiclj. 

On  a  black  slab,  near  the  entrance  to  the  chancel  : — 

Here  lyeth  buried  the  Body  of  Charles  Burrough,  Gent., 

Who  departed  this  life  May  the  Forth,  1690, 
aged  7  8  years. 

Here  also  resteth  the  Body  of  Amy  Burrough, 
the  wife  of  Charles  Burrough,  Gent.,  who 
departed  this  life  September  the  18,  1701, 
aged  77  years. 

Arms Burrough  of  Wickhambrook.  Two  chevrons  between  three  chaplets,  impaling  a 
lion  rampant  and  a  canton. 

Crest : — A  griffin’s  head  couped,  charged  on  the  neck  with  two  chevrons. 

On  the  projecting  ends  of  the  rafters  of  the  roof  on  the  south  side  of  the  nave  are, 
amongst  others,  the  following  shields  of  Arms  : — 

Burrough,  as  above,  impaling  a  lion  rampant  and  a  canton. 

Phillips.  Sable  seme  de  lis  a  lion  rampant  crowned  Or,  a  canton  ermine  ;  impaling  Burrough. 

Davy  MSS. 


Inscription,  jfeantpton,  ttnntbcrlanb. 

Here  lies  interr’d  the  Body  of  William  Burrough,  Gent., 
descended  from  a  respectable  family  in  the  County 
of  Suffolk,  who  died  the  9th  of  August  1759, 

Aged  37  years. 

Arms  : — Burrough  of  Wickhambrook.  Motto-. — “Vive  ut  Vivas.” 


JFront  tljr  farislj  ilrjjistcts  of  Mickljambnmk. 

Willmus,  filius  Thomas  Burrow,  bapt.  18  Martij,  1565. 

Thomas,  filius  Thome  Burrowe,  bapt.  25  Aprilis,  1576. 

Georgius,  filius  Thome  Burrow,  bapt.  26  Octobris,  1579. 

Johannes  Sadler  &  Elizabetha  Burrowe,  nupt.  7  Aprilis  1580. 

Carolus  Burrowe,  gen.  &  Maria  Kynge,  wid.  nupt.  7  Apr.  1591. 

Elizabetha  Burrowe,  filia  Willmi,  bapt.  30  Martij  1595. 

Suzanna  Burrowe,  fit  Charoli  Burrowe,  bapt.  5  Oct.  1595. 

Willmus  filius  Willmi  Burrowe,  bapt  7  Octobr  1596. 

Maria  Burrowe,  sepulta  8  Dec.  1596. 

Thomas  Burrowe,  gen.  sepult.  21  Junii,  1597. 

Brigetta'  Burrowe  nupt.  Thome  French,  gen0  2  Dec.  1597. 

Carolus  Burroughe,  gen.  &  Elizabetha  Sayer,  nupt.  14  Oct.  1598. 

Thomas  Burroughe,  gent,  the  son  of  Wyllia,  Counsaler,  bapt.  Apr.  1,  1599. 
George  Burroughe,  son  of  Charles  Burroughe,  gent.  bapt.  25  May,  1600. 
John  Burroughe,  son  of  Charles,  bapt.  19  Dec.  1606. 

John  Burrowe,  son  of  Edmund,  bapt.  18  Dec.  1625. 

Sara  Burrough,  daur  of  William  Burrough,  gent,  bapt.  9  Sept.  1630. 
Charles  Bui’rough,  gen.  sepult.  11  Feb.  1636. 


310 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES, 


jfrorn  tlj£  ^artslj  ilejtstcrs  of  P^ttaujlj. 

George  Burrough,  Rector  of  Pettaugh,  dyed  the  xxi  of  February,  1653,  and  was  buryed  the 
xxiiijth  of  the  same  February. 

Amy  Burrough,  daughter  of  Charles  Burrough  gent,  and  Amy  his  wife,  was  born  the  xxith  of 
June,  1654,  and  was  baptized  the  xxixth  of  the  same  June. 

The  aforesaid  Amy  Burrough  the  daughter  dyed  the  fourthe  November,  1654,  and  was  buryed  the 
eighth  of  the  same  November. 

Samuel  Burrough,  son  of  Charles  Burrough  gent,  and  Amy  his  wife,  was  borne  the  xixth  of  May, 
1655,  and  was  baptized  the  fifth  of  June  following. 


Jfront  tljo  JtegtsUrs  of  JEarjartf’s,  Hfjjslmclj. 

George  Burroughs  was  buried,  16  Januarye,  1658. 

The  Right  Worshipful  Richard  Phillips,  widower,  A  M1'8  Francis  Burrough,  single  woman,  were 
married  in  Sk  Stephins  parish,  29  Dec.  1674. 

Mrs  Francis  Burroughs,  sisstter  to  Mr  Charles  Burroughs  was  buried,  8  September,  1678. 

Frances,  wife  of  Mr  Richard  Philips,  was  buried  24  July,  1683. 


Burrougf)  ^eDtgree. 

Harl.  MS.  1560,  fo.  t?A- 


William  Borow  of=\ 
London,  Oent. 


Elizebeth,  d.  of  .  .  .  Bunnell  of  Dou.ingham=f=Thomas  Borow  of  W ickhambrook=^Bridgett,  2  d.  of  Thom. 


in  Com.  Cambridg.,  1  wife. 


in  Suff. 


I  Higham  of  Higham  in 
Suff.,  2  wife. 


Charles  Borow  of  Wick-=^Mary,  d.  of  John  Debnam  Elizebeth,  vx  John 
hambrook.  of  Denston  in  Suf.  Sadler. 


Thomas  Borow. 


Charles  Borow, 


Elizebeth. 


Susan. 


Will'm  Borow  of  Wick-=f=Elizebeth,  d.  of  Wm.  Woodhall  Thomas, 
hambrook.  of  Walden  in  Essex. 


George. 


Susan,  vx.  John  Pounds 
of  Boxford  in  Suff 


William  Borow. 


- , - , 

Mary.  Elizebeth. 


A  Grant  of  these  Armes  to  Tho:  Burrough  of  Wickhambrook  by  Cla:  Cooke  29  of  June  28  Q.  Eliz.  Cooke's  Guifts 
p.  60.  Arg.  two  chevronels  Vert  between  three  chaplets  of  the  second,  the  flowers  Or, 

Crest  : — A  griffin’s  head  Argent  charged  with  two  chevronels  Vert. 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


311 


ISurrouglj  of  fQEtdiijatnbrooft. 


William  Burrough  of  London,  Gent.=j= 
Harl.  MS.  1560. 


Elizabeth,  dau.  of  ^Thomas  Burrough  of  Wick-=pBrid  get,  2d  da.  of=Thomas  French 


Thomas  Burrell  of 
Dullingham  and  of 
Stetchworth,  co. 
Cambs.  ;  mar.  ante 
1 559  ;  bur.  in  the 
Chaucel  of  Wick- 
hambrook;  1st  wife. 


hambrook,  co.  Suffolk. 
Grant  of  Arms,  20  June 
1586.  Died  19  June  1597; 
bur  in  theChancel  ofWick- 
hambrook,  21  same  month. 
Will  dat.  12  May  1595, 
proved  P.  C.C.  29  J  unel  597. 


Heigham 


Thomas 

of  Higham,  co. 
Suff. ;  living  1595; 
mar.  to  Thomas 
French  at  Wick- 
hambrook,  2  Dec. 
1597. 


of  Wetherfield, 
co.  Essex.  Will, 
dat.  23  July 
1599.  proved 
P.C.C.  31  Oct. 
following. 


Elizabeth,  mar. 
ante  1595  John 
Sadler  of  Stra- 
dishall,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk.  His  Will 
dat. 6  Aprill626, 
proved  Arch 
Sudbury  26  Sep. 
following. 


Elizabeth" 
Sayer.mar. 
at  Wick- 
hambrook, 
14  Oct. 
1598.  Liv¬ 
ing  1637, 
2d  wife. 


-Charles  Burrough  of=j=Mary,  da.  of=j=KicliardKing 
Wickhambrook  son  '  ' 
and  heir.  Admon. 
granted,  6  June  1637 
to  Elizabeth  Bur¬ 
rough,  his  widow, 

Archd  Sudbury ;  bur. 
at  Wickhambrook  11 
Feb.  1636. 


John  Debenham 
of  Denston,  co. 
Suff.  Licence  to 
marry  Charles 
Burrough,  24 
March  1590, 
Arch.  Sudb.  ; 
1st  wife. 


of  Stausfield, 
co.  Sufi.  Will 
4  Dec.  1590, 
prov.  P.C.C. 
21  same 
month.  1st 
husband. 


A 


George,  bapt.at 
W  ickhambrook 
25  May  1600. 


John,  bapt.  at 
W  ickhambrook 
19  Dec.  1606. 


ThomasBur- 
rough.  Harl. 
MS.  1560. 


Elizabeth. 
Harl.  MS. 
1560. 


Charles. 
Harl. 
MS. 1560. 


Susanna,  bapt, 
at  Wickham¬ 
brook  14  Oct. 
1598. 


2.  William  Bur¬ 
rough  of  Wick- 
hambrook,  bapt. 
there  18  March 
1565.  Admon. 
granted  25  May 
1609,  P.C.C. 


:Elizabeth,  da. 
of  William 
Woodhall  of 
Saffron  Wal¬ 
den,  co.  Essex. 
Mar.  there  5 
Sept.  1591. 


Susan,  ux. 
John  Pound 
of  Boxford 
in  Suff. 
Harl.  M  S. 
1560.  (John 
Bonde?) 


William  Burrough,  son  and  heir,  bapt.  at  Wick¬ 
hambrook  7  Oct.  1596  ;  had,  by  Sarah  his  wife, 
a  dau.  Sarah,  bapt.  at  Wickhambrook  9  Sept. 
1630.  Sold  estates  1629,  Close  Roll,  5  Chas. 


3.  Thomas  Bur-= 
rough  of  Chan¬ 
cery  Laue  in  the 
parish  ofSt.Dnn- 
stan’s  in  the 
West,  Loudon, 
aged  34  in  1610. 
T" 


"Elizabeth,  widow  of 
James  Harmon  uf  St. 
Michael,  Bassishaw. 
Mar.  Lie.  Bp.  of  Lon¬ 
don,  13  Dec.  1610, 
To  marry  at  St.  Mil¬ 
dred’s,  Bread  Street. 


4.  George  Burro  ugh,  Clerk,  bapt  at  Wick -=p.  .  .  da.  of 


Thomas  Burrough, 
living  1613  ;  bapt. 
at  Wickhambrook, 
1  April  1599. 


hambrook,  26  Oct.  1579.  Entd.  Corpus 
Christi  Coll.  Camb.  1594.  Admitted  to 
Bp.  Nix’s  Scholarship  in  Trinity  Hall, 
Camb. 26  May  1597.  LL.B.1600.  Rector 
of  Pettaugh  1604,  and  of  Gosbeck,  1621. 
Bur.  at  Pettaugh  24  Feb.  1653. 

— 7  “i 

Elizabeth,  liv¬ 
ing  1624;  bapt. 
at  Wickham¬ 
brook,  1595. 


Edmund  Mary  Burrough  living 

Burrough,  1613.  Nuncupative  Will 

living  1613  16  Feb.  1624,  proved 

and  1624.  P.C.C.  31  July  1625. 


Nicholas 
Sparrow  of 
Wickham¬ 
brook,  and 
sister  of 
Nicholas 
Sparrow  of 
Gosbeck, 
both  in  Suf¬ 
folk. 


William=j=. 


Bur¬ 
rough. 
Living 
1663  & 
1689. 


living 

1689. 


Charles  Burrough  of  Ips-=j=Amy,  who  prov.  her  hus- 


wich  and  of  Staple  Inn, 
co.  Middx.  A  clerk  in  the 
Court  of  Chancery.  Died 
4  May  1690,  aged  78;  bur. 
at  St.  Margaret’s,  Ipswich. 
M.I.  Will  dated  15  Aug. 
1689,  proved  P.C.C.  7 
July  1690. 


ban  d  s  will  in  1 6 9  0 .  D  ied  1 8 
Sept.  1701,  aged  77  ;  bur. 
at  St.  Margaret’s.  Ipswich. 
M.I.  Will  dated  20  Dec. 
1700,  prov.  Arch.  Suffolk, 
7  Nov.  1701.  Aims — A 
lion  rampant  and  a 
canton. 


Thomas  Bur-  Frances,  liv-  Nathan ielBurrough=f=.  .  .  sister  of 
rough,  Vicar  of  ingl663;died  of  I.imeliouse,  co.  John  Style  of 

Newchurch,  Isle  unm.  ;  bur.  Middx.;  living  1663  Stepney,  co. 

of  Wight.  Will  at  St.  Mar-  Will  dat.  1681  and  Middx.,  who 

proved  P.C.C.  5  garet’s,  Ips-  •  proved  P.C.C.  23  made  Will, 

May  1664.  wich,  1678.  March  1682.  P.C.C.  26  Oct. 

i - — - 1  1685. 

George  Burrough  of  New  England  hi  America,  Clerk  in  Holy 
Orders.  Entered  Harvard  College  1670.  Died  1692  leaving  issue. 


William  Burrough  of  Staple1 
Inn,  co  Midd.,  and  of  South¬ 
ampton  Buildings  in  the  parish 
of  St.  Andrew,  Holborn.  A 
clerk  in  the  Court  of  Chan¬ 
cery  ;  was  aged  30  in  1690. 
Bur  atSt. Andrew’s,  Holborn, 
25  Feb.  1696-7.  Admon. 
granted  P.C.C.  22  March 
1696-7  to  ElizabetliBui  rough, 
his  widow. 


'Elizabeth,  da.  &  coheir,  aged 
20  in  1690 ;  mar.  at  St. 
Augustine’s,  London,  19  Oct. 
1690  ;  Lie.  Faculty  Office, 
dat.  17  same  month.  Of  St. 
G  eorge’s,  Bloomsbury,  widow, 
13  March  1741,  when  she 
made  will.  To  be  buried  at 
St.Andrew, Holborn.  Admon. 
granted  21  Oct.  1743  to  Wm. 
/^Burrough,  her  grandson. 


- 1 — l — 1 — 

Samuel, 
bapt.atPet- 
taugh,1655: 
Charles,  liv¬ 
ing  1663,  & 
A  my,  bapt. 
and  bur.  at 
Pettaugh, 
1654,  all 
died  s.p. 


1 1  ichard^pF  ranees, 


See  next  page. 


Phillips  of 
Ipswich. 
Will  dat.  17 
Sept.  1719, 
proved 
P.C.C.  28 
Jan.1719-20 
Mar.  at  St. 
Stephen’s, 
Ipswich,  29 
Dec.  1674. 


mar.  at  St. 
Stephen’s, 
Ipswich 
(reg.  at  St. 
Margaret's. 
Ipswich)  29 
Dec.  1674 ; 
bur.  at  St. 
Margaret’s, 
Ipswich  24 
July  1683. 


Amy,  mar. 
ante  1689 
Thomas 
Baxter  of 
Meudham, 
co.  Suff., 
and  his  wi¬ 
dow,  1 691  ; 
wife  of  John 
Felton, 
1700. 


Bridget, 
mar.  ante 
1700,  Tho¬ 
mas  With- 
erden  of 
Tunbridge, 
co.  Kent,  & 
had  issue. 
Burrough  c. 
Drury,  Mit- 
ford  IV,  a0 
1691. 


- 1 

Susan,  liv¬ 
ing  1689  ; 
mar.  ante 
1700  James 
Gibson  of 
Ipswich, 
who  died 
Dec.  1701, 
leaving  Su¬ 
san  Gibson, 
infant,  dau. 
and  heir. 


JohnBurroughof  Ipswich, =pAmy,  living  1689  ;  mar.  Sir  Rob-— Sir  Robert  Kemp  of  Gissing,  co.  Norfolk. 


Lord  of  Lovetofts  Manor 
in  Bramford,  1703.  Will, 
13  June  1724,  proved 
P.C.C.  25  Aug.  1727. 


ert  Kemp  at  St.  Andrew  Under¬ 
shaft,  London,  9  July  1728.  Will 
dat.  11  Oct.  1745,  proved  P.C.C. 
18  Feb.  following. 


Bart. ;  born  at  Ubbeston,  Suffolk,  25  June 
1667-  Died  18  Dec.  1734,  aged  67;  bur.  at 
Gissing  23  same  month.  Will  7  Dec.  1734, 
prov.  P.C.C.  10  May  1735.  2d  husband. 


Richard  Phil¬ 
lips  of  Lin¬ 
coln’s  Inn, 
co.  Middx. 
Living  1719. 


Elizabeth,  living  1719, 
wifeof  Francis  Colman 
of  Ipswich.  Had,  with 
other  issue,  a  sou, 
Phillips  Colman. 


John  Burrough,  living 
1719.  Died  s.p.. 


Robert  Blois  (eldest  son  of  Sir 
Grundesburgh,  co.  Suffolk,  Bart.) 
lifetime  of  his  father,  1728. 


Charles  Blois  of— Amy,  dau.  and  sole  heir, 
Died  s.p.  in  the 


Died  3  April  1733,  aged  34.  Buried 
in  Westminster  Abbey  9  same  month.  Will  dated  8  March 
1732-3,  prov.  P.C.C.  17  April  following. 


312 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Burrougf)  of  MRtckbanifat'oofc. 


William  Burrough  of  Staple=j=  Elizabeth,  da.  and  colieir  of  Charles 
Inn, co. Middx,  (see preceding  |  Burrough  of  Ipswich,  aged  24  in 

1690.  Mar.  at  St.  Augustine’s, Lon¬ 
don,  19  Oct.  1690.  Of  St.  George’s, 
Bloomsbury, widow,  13  March  1741, 
when  she  made  Will  P.C.C.  Ad- 
mon  granted,  21  Oct.  1743,  to 
William  Burrough,  her  grandson. 


page),  a  clerk  in  the  Court 
of  Chancery, aged  30  in  1690.  j 
Burrouqh  c.  Drury,  Mitford 
IV,  DXXXIII.  Bur.  at  St. 
Andrew’s,  Holborn,  25  Feb. 
1696-7.  Admon.  1696-7. 


Thomas  Highmore  of  Duke  Street  in  the  parish1 
of  St.  James,  Westminster,  &  of  Hampton  Court, 
co.  Midd.,  Serjeant-Painter  to  King  William  III, 
Queen  Anue  and  King  George  I.  Born  22  June 
1660.  Died  8  March  1719-20  ;  bur.  at  St. 
James’, Westminster.  Willdat.  5  March  1719-20, 
prov.  P.C.C.  18  same  mouth.  See  Dictionary 
of  National  Biography. 


=Joane,  dau. 
of  Thomas 
Dogget  of 
co.  Bedford, 
mar.  31  May 
1684. 


William  Burrough  of  the  parish  of  St.=fMargaret.  only  surviving  da.  of 


Andrew’s,  Holbom,  and  afterwards 
of  St.  James’,  Westminster.  Bapt. 
at  St.  Andrew’s,  Holborn,  29  Dec. 
1692.  Died  ante  1734  aud  was 
buried  at  St.  Andrew’s,  Holborn. 
Admon.  granted  to  Margaret  Bur¬ 
rough,  his  widow, 14 Sept.  1727, P.C.C. 


Thomas  Highmore,  and  heir  to 
her  brother,  John  Highmore. 
Mar.  at  St.  Martin’s  in  the  Fields, 
eo.  Middx.,  20  Feb.  1717-8  Ante 
nuptial  settlement  dat.  31  Jan. 
same  year.  Living,  a  widow, 
1734  and  1741. 


Thomas  High-  John  Highmore  of  the  parish  of  St. 
more.  Born  2  Paul’s,  Covent  Garden,  eo.  Middx., 
March  1686.  and  of  the  Inner  Temple.  Only 
Died  before  surviving  son  and  heir.  Died 
1716,  s.p.  unmarried,  and  buried  at  St. 

James, Westminster,  24  Api-il  1759. 
Will  dated  2  Aug.  1756,  proved 
P.C  C.  4  April  1759. 


- 1 

Martha  High- 
more,  born  23 
March  1684-5. 
Died  before 
.1717. 


William  Burrough  of  Brampton,  co.  Cum-=j=Margaret  Dixon  of  Keswick, 


berland.  Under  age  in  1741.  Adm.  his 
grandmother  Elizabeth  Burrougli’s  will  in 
1743.  Living  1757.  Died  9  Aug.  1759,  aged 
37  ;  bur.  at  Brampton,  co.  Cumberland.  M.I. 
Admon.  granted  27  Sept.  1759,  P.C.C. 


co.  Cumberland  ;  mar.  at 
Crostliwaite  in  the  said  co. 
3  Aug.  1749.  Died  7  April 
1794,  aged  71  ;  bur,  at 
Brampton  aforesaid.  M.I. 


Thomas  Burrough  of  St.  Martin’s  in 
the  Fields,  co.  Middx  ,  aud  of  Guild¬ 
ford,  co.  Surrey.  Under agein  1741. 
Buried  at  St.  James’,  Westminster, 
1  Nov.  1780  Will  dat-  7  Dec.  1772, 
proved  P.C  C.  7  Nov.  1780. 


- 1 

Charles  Burrough  of  St. 
James’,  Westminster,  and  of 
H.M.S.  “Bridgewater.”  Un¬ 
der  age  in  1741.  Will  dated 
21  Oct.  1745,  proved  P.C.C. 
20  April  1749. 


John  Burrough  of 
Brampton  afsd. ;  eld¬ 
est  son  bap.  at  Bramp¬ 
ton,  11  Oct.  1749. 
Died  unmar. ;  bur.  at 
BramptonlDee.1820. 
Willdat.16  Julyl818, 
prov.  at  Carlisle  24 
May  1821. 


Charles  Burrough  of  Bramp¬ 
ton,  Master  and  Command¬ 
er  in  the  Royal  Navy.  2d 
son.  Bapt.  at  Brampton 
13  Sept.  1753.  Died  13 
July  1810,  aged  57  ;  bur.  at 
Brampton,  16  same  month. 
M.I.  Will  30  Jan.  1810, 
proved  at  Carlisle  31  Oct. 
same  year. 


:Anne,  da.  of  John  Ewart 
of  Brampton.  Born  25 
Jan.  1768.  Mar.  at 
Brampton,  23  Jan.  1799. 
Died  16  Dee.  1835  ;  bur. 
at  Holy  Trinity,  Bromp  - 
ton,  co.  Middx.  Will  dat. 
2  Aug.  1832,  prov.  P.C.C. 
16  Dec.  1836. 


Mary,  eldest  dau. 
Bapt.  at  Bramp¬ 
ton.  2  Jan.  1751. 
Mar .  to  Joh  n  S  tron  g 
of  Carlisle,  Attor- 
ney-at-Law.  Died 
25  Nov.  1794,  aged 
44;  bur.  at  Bramp¬ 
ton.  M.I. 


Margaret,  2d  dau. 
Bapt.  at  Brampton 
25  Feb  1756.  Mar. 
Sampson  White  of 
Clapham.  co.  Surrey. 
Bur.  at  Clapham  16 
April  1803,  aged  48. 


Elizabeth,  3d  and 
youngest  da.  Bapt. 
at  Brompton  9  Aug. 
1758  ;  mar.  there 
6  Oct.  1782  to 
James  Parker. 


J 


William  Burrough, 
eldest  son.  Born  15 
Dec.  1799;  bapt.  at 
Brampton  6  Feb. 
1800.  Died  unmar. 
20  Feb.  1826;  bur. 
at  All  Saints,  Man¬ 
chester,  28  Sep . 
1826. 


John  Burrough  of= 
West  Drayton,  co. 
Middx.,  Commander 
R.N.,  second  son  ; 
born  28  Feb.andbapt. 
at  Brampton  afsd.  2 
Oct.  1801.  Died  18 
May  1870  ;  bur.  at 
Holy  Trinity, Bromp¬ 
ton,  co.  Middx. 


Ann,  da.  of 
James  Wain- 
wright  of  Key  e 
Hill  House, 
near  Birming¬ 
ham.  Mar.  at 
St.  Sidwell’s, 
Exeter,  27 
July  1843  ; 
living  1896. 


Charles  Bui-rough 
of  Montpelier  Sq., 
Brompton,  3  son. 
Bom  7  Aug.  1803; 
bapt.  at  Brampton 
12  June  1804.  Died 
unmar.  28  July 
1 880  ;  bur.  at  Holy 
Trinity,  Brompton. 


Thos.  Burrough 
4  son.  Born  21 
May  1805  ;bapt. 
at  Brampton  2 
Jan.  1806.  Died 
30  Nov.  1808  ; 
bur.  at  Bramp¬ 
ton. 


James  Burrough  of 
Montpelier  Sq., 
Brompton,  5  son. 
Bom  20  Nov.  1806  ; 
bapt.  at  Brampton 
7  Jan.  1807.  Died 
unm.  23  May  1885  ; 
bur  at  Holy  Trinity, 
Brompton. 


Mary,  only  da.  Born  8 
May  aud  bapt  .atBramp- 
ton  1  Oct.  1802.  Mar. 
at  St.  George’s,  Han¬ 
over  Sq.,  6  March  1832, 
to  Henry  Mole  Bagster 
of  Guildford  St. ,  Russell 
Sq.,  Bloomsbury.  Died 
11  June  1863,  and  bur. 
at  Highgate  Cemetery. 


Rev.  Charles  Burrough  of  Jesus  Coll.,  Camb.,  M.A.,  Rector  of  Eaton=pGeorgina,  da.  of  George  Long  of  Grove  Lodge,  Southsea,  co.  South- 


Bishop,  co.  Hereford,  only  child.  Born  11  Dec.  1846  ;  bapt.  at  West 
Drayton,  co.  Middlesex,  15  April  1847  ;  bring  1896. 


Charles  James  Bur¬ 
rough,  eldest  son.  Born 
25  July  1872  ;  bapt.  at 
Clun,  co.  Salop,  24  Aug. 
1872.  Clerk  in  Holy 
Orders,  1897. 


John  Burrough,  2  son. 
Born  5  Sep.  1873  ;  bap, 
at  Clun  afsd. 4  Oct.  follow¬ 
ing.  B.A.  Jesus  Coll. 
Camb.,  and  Clerk  in  Holy 
Orders,  1896. 


William  George 
Burrough,  3  son. 
Born  22  July 
1875  ;  bapt.  at 
Clun  afsd.  24 
Aug.  following. 


ampton.  Mar.  at  St.  Bartholomew’s,  Southsea,  co.  Southampton, 
8  June  1871  ;  living  1896. 


Herbert  Strong  Bur¬ 
rough,  4  son.  Born 
13  Dec.  1876  ;  bapt. 
at  Clun  afsd.  21  Jan. 
1877. 


Francis  Thomas  Bur¬ 
rough,  5  sou.  Born 
26  Oct.  1879  ;  bapt. 
at  Clun  afsd.  30  Nov. 
following. 


- 1 

Edmund  Andrew 
Burrough, 6son.  Born 
16  Nov.  1881.  Bapt. 
at  Clun  afsd.  4  Dec. 
following. 


Hubert  Michael  Burrough, 
7  son.  Born  26  April  1884  ; 
bapt.  at  Eaton  Bishop,  co. 
Hereford,  8  May  following. 


Evan  Gabriel  Burrough,  8 
son.  Bom  21  Sep.  1885  ; 
bapt,  at  Eaton  Bishop  afsd. 
18  Oct.  following. 


Harold  Martin  Burrough,  9 
son.  Bom  4  July  1888  ; 
bapt.  at  Eaton  Bishop  afsd. 
5  Aug.  following. 


— -I - 

Walter  Raphael  Burrough, 
10  son.  Born  13  Feb.  1892, 
and  bapt.  at  Eaton  Bishop 
afsd.  13  March  following. 


— I 

Mary.  Born  4  April 
1878  and  bapt.  at  Clun 
afsd.  1  May  following. 


The  pedigree  here  given,  a  few  additions  by  the  Editor  excepted,  was  entered  at  the  Heralds’  College  in  May  1895,  when  the  Arms  of 
Burrough  of  Wickham br  ok,  quarterly  with  Highmore,  were  allowed  to  the  Rev.  Charles  Burrough,  M.A.,  Rector  of  Eaton  Bishop,  and  his 
descendants. 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


313 


3&ogal  Descents,  Uutrougf)  of  12Etcftframbtoofe. 


David  I,  Kiup:  of  Scotland,  heir  to  his=pMaud,  dau.  of  Waltheof,  Earl 
mother  Matilda,  sister  of  Edgar  Atlieling.  j  of  Northumberland. 

_ _ _ i 


Henry  I,  King  of  England,  =pMatilda,  1st  wife,  sister  of  David  I, 
d.  1135.  |  King  of  Scotland. 

i - 1  r- 

Maud,  widow  of  Henry  IV,=^=Geoffery  Plantagenet,  Count  Henry,  the  Crown  Prince, =f= Adeline,  dau.  of  William  de  Warren,  by  Gundreda, 
Emperor  of  German)’.  |  of  Anjou.  ob.  vita  patris.  |  “  daughter  ”  of  William  the  Conqueror, 

i - 1  _  r- 


Henry  II,  King  of  England,  d.=pEleanor,  dau.  of  William  of 
1189.  |  Aquitaine. 

, _ I 


David,  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  Prince  of=j=Maud,  dau.  of  Hugh,  Earl  of 
Scotland.  |  Chester. 

_ _ i 


John,  King  of  England,  1199-=j=Isabella  of  Augouleme,  second 
1216.  I  wife. 


Isabella,  secoud=pRobert  de  Bruce,  died 
daughter.  |  1251. 


Henry  III.  King  of  England,  1216-=pEleanor  of  Provence,  died 
1272.  I  1291. 


Robert  Bruce.  =f  Isabel,  dau.  of  Gilbert  de  Clare,  Earl  of 
|  Gloucester. 

i _ 


Richard  de  Clare,  4th  in=j=Maud,  dau.  of  John 
descent  from  Dermod  |  de  Lacy,  Earl  of 
McMurrough,  King  of  |  Lincoln. 

Leinster. 

f - \  i - — - 

Gilbert  de  Clare, =f=The  Princess 


Edward  I,  King  of=j=Eleanor,  1st  wife,  dau. 
England  1272-1307,  !  ot  Ferdinand  III,  King 
b.  1239.  |  of  Castile,  d.  1290. 


- 1 


Robert  Bruce,  5th  in=j=  Margaret,  dau.  of 


descent  from  David  I, 
King  of  Scotland. 


Nigel,  Earl  of  Car- 
rick. 


The  Princess=f  Humphrey  de 


Edward  II,King=j=Isabel,  dau.  of 


Earl  of  Glouces¬ 
ter,  d.  1295. 

Joan  of  Acre, 

2d  wife,  d. 
1305. 

Elizabeth 
Plantagenet, 
d.  1316. 

Bohun,  Earl  of 
Hereford,  2d 
husband. 

of  England, 
1327. 

d. 

Philip  the 

Fair,  King  of 
France. 

King  of  Scot¬ 
land,  d.  1329. 

L - 1 

r - J 

r 

r - J 

Robert  Bruce, =f=Isabel,  dau.  of 
Donald,  Earl 
of  Marr. 


HughleDespeneer,=j=EleanordeClare,  Lady  Eleanor=p  James  Butler,  Earl  Edward  III,=pPhilippa,  dau.  of  Princess  Mar-=j=Walter,  Lord 


Earl  of  Gloucester, 
executed  1326. 


dau.  and  coheir, 
mar.  1306. 


de  Bohun. 


I 

Philip  le  De-=j=Margaret,dau.  audh.  of 
spencer, 
son. 


of  Ormonde,  1st  King  of  Eng-  I  William,  Count 
husband,  d.  1337.  land,  d.  1377.  of  Hainault. 


jory,  dau.  of 
Robert  Bruce. 


High  Steward  of 
Scotland. 


James  Butler ,=pElizabeth,  dau.  of  John  of  Gaunt,  =pKatherine 


4  th 

Ralph  Gousliill,  Lord  of 

2d  Earl 

of 

Sir 

John  Darcy,  Duke  of  Lan- 

Swynford, 

of  Scotland. 

Camoys  Manor  in  Essex. 

Ormonde, 

d. 

she 

remar.  Sir  caster. 

3d  wife. 

1382. 

Robert  Hereford. 

Robert  II,  King=j=Elizabeth, 

dau.  of  Sir 
Adam  Bruce. 


Philip  le  Despeucer,  d.=pJoan 


1350,  lord  of  Camoys 
Manor.  Essex. 


Strange. 


James  Butler,  3d=pAnne,  dau.  of  Sir  John  Beau-=j=Margaret,  dau.  of  Robert  III, =pAnnabell.i,  dau. 


EarlofOrmonde, 
d.  1405. 


John,  5th  Lord 
Welles. 


fort,  1st  Earl  of 
Somerset. 


Thomas  Holland, 
Earl  of  Kent. 


King  of 
Scotland. 


_ I 


of  Sir  John 
Drummond. 


Philip  le  Despencer, =j=Margaret  James  Butler,  4th  Earl=j=Joan,  dau.  of 


summoned  to  Parlia¬ 
ment  1387-1400. 


Cobliam. 


of  Ormonde, 
White  Earl.” 


“  The 


Gerald,  5thEarl 
of  Kildare. 


1 - 1  1 - 1 

Sir  James  Stewart,  Black=pJoau  B cau fort.  =p James  I,  King  of 


Knight  of  Lorn,  2d  hus¬ 
band,  mar.  1438. 


A 


Scotland,  assasin- 
ated  1437. 


Sir  Philip  Spencer,  of=j=Klizabetli,  dau.  and  coheir  of  Sir  Lady  E]iza-=f=Jolin  Talbot,  2d  James  II,  King  of=j=Marv,  dau.  of  Arnold, 


Nettlestead,  co.  Suffolk, 
jure  uxoris,  d.  1 423. 


Robert  de  Tibetoft,  Lord  of  the 
Manor  of  Nettlestead,  1st  wife. 


beth  Butler. 


Earl  of  Shrews¬ 
bury,  d.  1460. 


Scotland,  killed  1460. 


Duke  of  Gueldres. 


_ I 


John,  I.ord=Margaret  Spen-=j=Sir  Roger  Wentworth,  Sir  Gilbert=p  Audrey,  dau.  of  James  III, 


Roos,  1  st  lius- 

cer,  sole  dau.  and 

of  Nettlestead,  jure 

Talbot,  d. 

Sir  John  Cotton, 

King  of 

Mary  of  Scot¬ 

band. 

heiress. 

uxoris,  2d  husband. 

1516. 

2d  wife. 

Scotland. 

land. 

The  Princess^pJames,  1st'  Lord 
Hamilton,  2d  hus¬ 
band,  d.  1494. 


_ i 


Henry  Wentworth,  of= 
Codham.co.Essex,  Esq., 
2d  son. 


^Elizabeth,  1st  wife,  dau.  and  coheir 
of  Henry  Howard,  Esq.,  collateral 
ancestor  of  the  Dukes  of  Norfolk. 


Sir  John=pMargaret,  dau.  of  Elizabeth  Hamilton,=pMatthew  Stewart,  2d 


Talbot. 


Adam  Troutbeck, 
Esq. 


sister  of  James, 
Earl  of  Arran. 


1st 


Earl  of  Lennox,  d. 
1513. 


_ i 


Margery  =pSir  William  Waldegrave, 


Wentworth, 


of  Smallbridge,  co.Suffolk, 
d.  1524. 


A 

See  next  page. 


Sir  John=j=Frances,  dau.  of  Sir 
Talbot.  John  Gifford. 


See  next  page. 


John,  3d  Earl  of  Lennox, =pLady  Anne  Stewart,  dau.  of 
murdered  1526.  John,  Earl  of  Atholl. 


See  next  page. 


2  R 


314 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Konal  fitscoite,  $nmmglj  of 


Wtrkbantbrook  — continued. 


Margery  Wentworth=pSir  William  Waklegrave,  of  Small-  Sir  John=pFrauces,  dau.  of  Sir  John,  3d  Earl  of  Len-=j=Lady  Anne  Stewart. 
{see  preceding  page).  bridge,  in  co.  Suffolk,  d.  1524.  Talbot.  I  John  Gifford.  nox,  murdered  1526.  I  dau.  of  John,  Earl  of 

|  Atholl. 

- - — J  ■ - 1  . - 1 


r~ 


i — 


George  Waldegrave,  =1= Anne,  dau.  of  Sir  Robert  Sir  Johu=pCatharine,  dau.  of  John  Stewart,  Lord  ofp=.  .  .  dau.  of  De  la  Verrey, 

Esq.,  of  Smallbridge.  |  Drury,  of  Hawstead.  Talbot.  Sir  William  Petre.  Aubigny,  jure  uxor  is.  I  Lord  of  Aubigny. 


Phillis  Waldegrave, =f  Thomas  Higham,  son  of  Sir  George  Talbot,  Aune-pThomas  Needham,  Esme  Stewart,  created=f  Catherine  de 


sister  to  Sir  William 
Waldegrave. 


John  Higham,  of  Higham,  9th  Earl  of 
co.  Suffolk.  Shrewsbury. 


Talbot. 


of  Shenton,  Esq.  Duke  of  Leunox,  1579, 


Ralsae. 


Bridget  Higham, =pThomas  Burrougli,  of  Wickham-  Robert  Need-=p  Frances,  dau.  of  Sir  Lady  Mary  Stewart, =j=John  Erskine,  18th 


2d  wife. 


brook,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  1597. 


ham,  Esq.  I  Edward  Aston. 


2d  wife. 


George  Burrougli,  LL.B.,  Rectorp=Frances,  dau.  of  Nicholas  Robert  Needham,  created=j=Catheriue 


of  Pettaugh  and  Gosbeck,  co. 
Suffolk,  d.  1653. 


rough,  living 
1689. 


Sparrowe,  of  Wickham- 
brook. 


Viscount  Kilmorey,  d 
1627. 


Robinson. 


Earl  of  Marr,  d.  ]  634. 


Lady  Annep=Johu,  6th  Earl  of 


Erskine. 


±j= 

Charles  Burrough,  of=j=Amy,  d. 

The  Hon.  Ellen=j=Sir  William 

Lady  Margaret  Leslie, =j= 

Ipswich,  b.  1612,  d. 
1690. 

1701. 

Needham. 

Owen. 

3d  wife,  widow  of  Lord 
Balgony. 

Rothes,  mar.  1614. 
d.  1641. 


Wemyss,  d.  1680. 


William  Burrougli,  of  Staple^ Elizabeth  Burrough,  Ellen=j=Sir  George 
Inn,  co.  Middlesex,  died  1697-  .  dau.  and  coheir,  mar.  Owen.  Norton. 

1690. 


Sir  James  Wemyss,  created=j=Margaret,  Countess  of  Wemyss 


Lord  Burntisland,  1672. 


in  her  own  right,  d.  1705. 


_ I 


William  Burrough  of=j=Margaret,  dau.  and  ultimately  heir 


the  Inner  Temple, 
1727. 


of  Thomas  Highmore,  Sergeant 
Painter  to  Queen  Anne,  d.  1719. 


Ellei;=j=William  Trenchard,  Margaret,  sister=j=David  Carnegie.  4th 


Norton. 


Esq. 


of  David,  Earl  of 
Wemyss. 


Earl  of  Northesk,  d. 
1729. 


William  Burrough,  of  Bramp-=j=Margaret  Dixon,  of 


ton,  Cumberland,  d.  1759. 


Keswick, Cumberland, 
d.  1794. 


Frances=j=J ohn  Hippesley,  George  Carnegie,  6th=j=Lady  Anne  Leslie  Melville, 


Trenchard. 


Esq. 


Earl  of  Northesk,  d. 
1792. 


dau.  of  Alexander,  5th  Earl 
of  Leven. 


Charles  Burrough  of=j=Ann  Ewart,  Mary  Bur-~John  Robert  Hippes-=j=Mary  William,  7th  Earl  of  Northesk.  =pMary,  dau.  of  William 


Brampton,  Cumber 
land,  Commander 
R.N.  He  was  first 
Lieutenant  on  the 
“  Russell,”  74,  at 
Camperdown,  1797, 
d.  1810. 


dau.  of  John 
Ewart,  Esq., 
died  1835. 


rough,  d 
1794. 


Strong  ley, Esq., assumed 
of  Car-  name  and  arms  of 
lisle.  Trenchard. 


Gore. 


John  Long,  of=j=Ellen 
Preshaw,  Hants,  I  Trench- 
Esq.  I  ard. 

_ .  I _ 


At  Trafalgar  he  was  third 
Admiral  in  command  on  board 
the  “  Britannia,”  100.  He  died 
1830,  and  was  buried  in  the 
Crypt  of  St.  Paul’s  Cathedral. 


D  enry  Ricketts,  Esq., 
niece  of  Earl  St.  Vin¬ 
cent,  Admiral  of  the 
Red  and  General  of 
Marines. 


J  ohn  Burrough,  of  West; 
Drayton,  Middlesex, 
Commander  R.N.  He 
was  mate  on  board  the 
flag  ship  “  Asia,”  84, 
at  Navarino,  1827,  d. 
1870. 


-Aim  Wainwright, 
dau.  of  James 
Wainwright,  Esq. 


William  Burrough  Strong, =j=Margaret,  dau.  of  Edward 


Lieut.  44th  Regiment. 
Wounded  at  Quatre  Bras 
1815. 


Gray,  of  the  Kirk  House, 
Cumberland. 


- 1 

Walter  Long,-pThe  Lady  Mary  Car- 


of  Preshaw, 

Hampshire, 

Esq. 


negie,  sister  of  the  8th 
Earl  of  Northesk. 


Eliza  Margarita  Strong,  d.  1873.=j=George  Long,  of  Soutlisea,  Hampshire,  J.P. 


Charles  Burrough,  M.A.,  of  Jesus  College,  Cambridge  ;=f=Georgina  Long,  b.  1848. 
Rector  of  Eaton  Bishop,  co.  Hereford  ;  b.  1846. 


- 1 - 

Edmund 
Andrew, 
b.  1881. 


Charles 
James,  b. 
1872. 


John,  b. 
1873. 


William 
George, 
b.  1875. 


Herbert 
Strong, 
b.  1876. 


Mary,  b. 
1878, 


Francis 
Thomas, 
b.  1879. 


Hubert 
Michael, 
b.  1834. 


- 1 - 

Evan 
Gabriel, 
b.  1885. 


Harold 
Martin, 
b.  1888. 


Walter 
Raphael, 
b.  1892. 


jf o rtl)  of  lontion. 


Cljattccrn  froatbtttjs,  dfortlj  c.  Siacan,  1601. 

2.  Eliz.  11.  &  A.  FF.  2.  jD. 

In  most  humble  wise  complayning  sheweth  Pliillipp  Forthe  of  Hadleighe  in  the  Countie  of 
Suff.  gentleman,  that  Wittm  Forthe  late  of  Hadleighe,  Esquier,  fatlier  vnto  yor  Orator,  was  in 
his  life  tyme  seased  of  oue  capital  messuage  &  threeskore  acres  of  land  in  Hadleigh  aforesaid 

and  of  divers  other  lands  in  Hadleighe,  Reydon,  Hundlesham  and  Aldham,  to  the  yerely  valewe 
of  one  hundred  pounds.  And  soe  seased  did,  abowte  the  eighteenth  yere  of  the  Queues  Matie 
that  nowe  is,  take  to  wyfe  Dorothe  Harvey,  and  for  her  joynture  did  convey  said  lands  and 
tenements  vnto  John  Kene  late  of  Starston  in  the  Countie  of  Norff.  gent,  and  Edward  Bacon  of 
Redenhall  in  Norff.  gent,  to  the  vse  of  the  said  Wittm  Forthe  and  Dorgthie  his  wyfe,  and  the 
right  heires  of  the  said  Wittm  for  ever.  Said  William  Forthe  afterwar™  acknowledged  recogni¬ 
zances  to  Wittm  Averye  of  Skole,  and  vnto  Adam  Wyntropp  of  Groton  gent.,  and  after,  abowte 
the  ffortethe  yere  of  her  Ma41e  said  Raigne,  by  his  last  will  did  devise  vnto  Israeli  Forthe  of 
Hadleighe  gent.,  brother  of  the  said  Wittm,  said  capitall  messuage  for  tenn  yeres.  Said  lands 
descended  vnto  yor  Orator  as  eldest  sonne  &  next  heire  vnto  said  Wittm  &  Dorothe.  But  the 
deed  of  entayle  and  divers  other  escripts  and  muniments  ben  causually  come  to  the  hands  of 

the  said  Wittm  Averye,  Adam  Wyntropp,  Israeli  Forthe,  Edward  Bacon  and  Hester  Keene  of 

Starston  widowe,  or  some  of  them,  who  have  made  estates  in  secret  manner  to  their  owne  vse, 
wherby  they  intend  to  disinherit  yor  Orator. 

The  seuall  answere  of  Edward  Bacon  gent,  one  of  the  Defend48.  Abowte  the  xviijth  yere 
of  the  Raigne  of  or  Souerigne  Lady  Elizabeth,  Wittm  Forth,  father  of  the  Comp14,  did  take 
to  wyfe  Dorothe  Harvy  kynswoman  vnto  this  Def4  and  for  her  joynture  did  assure  said  lands 

vnto  John  Keene  late  of  Starston  in  Norff.  gent,  and  vnto  this  Defend4 ;  wch  deed  the  said 
John  Keene,  as  this  Defend4  hath  heard,  did  all  his  lyfe  tyme  verie  safelie  keep  for  the 
benifitt  of  the  said  Dorothe  &  her  children.  Said  deed  came  to  the  possession  of  Hester  Keene 
wyfe  of  the  said  John,  and  his  sole  and  only  executrix. 

Unmindful  of  the  parish  registers  and  the  inscription  in  Hadleigh  Church,  the  pedigree  on 
page  119  of  the  present  volume,  following  too  closely  Hark  MS.  1560,  makes  the  younger  sons 
of  William  Forth  to  be  the  children  of  a  second  wife,  the  daughter  of  .  .  .  Kene.  It  is  clear, 
however,  as  well  from  the  inscription  and  registers  referred  to  as  from  the  Chancery  Proceedings 
just  recited  and  the  Kene-Harvey  pedigree  in  Hark  MS.  1552,  that  Dorothy  Harvey  was  the 
mother,  and  Joan  Kene  the  grandmother,  of  the  sons  in  question,  in  common  with  their  brothers 
and  their  sister. 


2  R2 


316 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mill  of  ®Ijonms  IBrigbt,  1618. 

Thomas  Bright  of  Ipswich,  mchant,  the  17Ul  daie  of  Aprill,  1 6 1 S.  First  I  give  and  bequeath 
vnto  Willia  Fourth  my  brother  in  lawe  of  Nayland  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke  gent,  the  some  of 
threescrore  powndes  to  this  vse,  that  he  paie  vnto  Marie  Bright  my  mother,  nowe  wife  of  William 
Cole,  the  yeerlie  rent  of  six  pownds  for  the  payment  whereof  I  stand  bound.  Vnto  the  saied 
Marie  my  mother  the  some  of  twentie  pownds.  Vnto  my  brothers  John  and  Henry  Bright  to 
each  of  them  seventie  pownds  when  they  shall  accomplish  their  ages  of  one  &  twentie  yeeres. 
Vnto  my  two  sisters  Elizabeth  &  Matthewe  Bright  to  ech  of  them  fiftie  pownds  at  their  ages  of 

one  &  twentie  yeres.  Vnto  Marie  my  sister  nowe  wife  of  the  saied  William  Forth,  the  sufhe  of 

ffive  pownds.  Vnto  Marie  Woodgate,  one  of  the  daughters  of  Thomas  Woodgat  of  Ipswich,  ffive 

pownds  at  her  age  of  one  &  twentie  yeeres.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  vnto  the  saied.  Wittm 

Forth  whomc  I  ordaine  sole  executor  of  this  will.  V-icesimo  sexto  die  Januarij  1625  emanavit 
Commissio  Johanni  Bright  fratri  Thome  Bright  def  ad  administrand  bona  &c.  iuxta  tenorem 
testament  j?dict  eo  qd  WiHnms  Forth  executor  noiatus  oneri  execucouis  expresse  renunciavit. 

_  r.C.C  13  Hele. 

ffilill  of  Jfoljit  @SttiC£,  1695. 

John  Wace,  Citizen  and  Cloatli worker  of  London.  Unto  Lettitia  my  wife  the  sume  of 
seaven  hundred  pounds,  her  rings  and  watch,  all  my  plate,  and  such  of  my  books  as  she  pleaseth 
to  take  and  all  my  household  goods  during  her  life.  Unto  Elizabeth  Wildboar  wife  of  Mr 
Wildboare  of  Watling  street,  London,  grocer,  and  daughter  to  the  late  Alderman  John  Foorth, 
seaventy  five  pounds.  Unto  M™  Martha  Hillersden  widow  cue  other  daughter  of  the  late  Alderman 
John  Foorth  seaventy  five  pounds.  Unto  my  cousin  Mrs  Mary  Cawley  widow  ffourscore  pounds. 
To  the  children  of  Mr8  Elizabeth  Wildboare  and  Mra  Martha  Hillersdeu.  To  Alderman  Dannet 
Foorth  six  pounds  for  a  ring,  and  to  his  daughters  Mrs  St.  John,  Mrs  Martha,  Mrs  Eebecca,  Mra 
Elizabeth,  Mrs  Sarah  and  Mrs  Dannet,  to  each  of  them  ffive  pounds  for  rings.  Unto  Mrs  Mary 
Hillersden  and  Mra  Dawson  daughters  of  the  said  Alderman  John  Foorth  each  ffive  pounds  for 
rings.  Unto  my  cousin  Thomas  Matthew  of  Sudbrook  in  Surry  gent,  ffive  pounds  for  a  ring. 
Unto  my  cousin  Thomas  Wilson  now  in  their  Majtiea  service  in  Ireland  the  sume  of  ffifty  pounds 
&  to  his  children.  Unto  Doctor  Samuel  Anuesley  and  my  loving  wife  Lettitia  thirty  pounds  in 
trust  for  such  poor  distressed  Protestants  as  have  been  forced  to  fly  from  France  or  Ireland ; 
also  seaventy  pounds  to  be  distributed  amongst  seaven  poor  dissenting  ministers  that  doe  preach 
the  Gospell  of  our  Lord  in  Wales ;  also  ffifty  pounds  to  be  distributed  amongst  twenty  five  poor 
people  such  as  have  been  diligent  in  their  callings  but  are  past  labour  and  fallen  into  want. 
Unto  my  cozen  John  Wace  of  Stoakesby  neer  Yarmouth,  clerke,  the  sume  of  one  hundred  pounds 
and  unto  John  Wace  his  son  (if  any  such  son  he  hath)  ffifty  pounds.  Unto  the  children  of  my 
cousin  Thomas  Wace,  clerke,  deed  the  sume  of  one  hundred  pounds.  Unto  my  cousin  Edmund 
Wace,  Hector  of  Ililburgh  in  Norfolke,  one  hundred  pounds.  Unto  my  ffather  Mr  William 
Whitebredd  of  Carrington  in  Bedfordshire  and  unto  Lettitia  his  wife  ffive  pounds  a  peece  for  rings. 
Unto  my  cousin  Mrs  Mary  Kewitt  fforty  shillings  for  a  ring.  The  rest  of  my  estate  to  be 
divided  into  four  parts.  Of  these  I  give  two  parts  unto  my  wife,  one  part  unto  Mra  Elizabeth 
Wildboare  and  one  part  to  Mra  Martha  Hillersden.  I  ordain  my  said  loving  wife  and  my  cousin 
John  Wace  of  Stoakesby  and  my  cousin  Edmund  Wace  of  Hilburgh  to  be  executors.  This  two 
and  twentieth  day  of  Aprill  1693.  Probatum  nono  die  Maij  1693  juramentis  Leticia;  Wace  relict* 
Johannis  Wace,  clici  et  Edmundi  Wace,  clici,  executorum.  P.C.C.  89  Coker. 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


317 


Mill  nf  JHarjawt  Jfortb,  1696. 

Margarett  Foorth  of  the  Copy  Farme  in  hums  toad  Hellions  in  the  County  of  Essex,  widow. 
Unto  my  niece  Margarett  the  wife  of  Robert  Darken  my  necklace  of  pearls  and  my  two  diamond 
rings  and  my  husbands  little  picture  set  in  gold  and  the  choice  of  my  books.  Unto  Margaret 
the  eldest  daughter  of  said  Robert  ffifty  pounds  at  her  age  of  one  and  twenty  years.  Unto  my 
nieces  Margaret  Curteene  and  Anna  Ady.  Unto  William  and  Stephen  Rayner  sons  of  Michaell 
Rayner.  Unto  Mary  Foorth  the  daughter  of  Robert  Foorth  and  to  Joseph  Clarke.  Unto  my 
brother  and  sister  Rayner.  Unto  Mr  Francis  Williams,  Mr  Stephen  Standrett  and  to  Mr  Paine 
senr  and  to  his  son  Mr  William  Paine  of  Walden.  To  my  loving  ffriend  Mr  William  Hill  of 
Lincolns  Inn  and  to  Mra  Mary  Cauely,  widow,  and  to  Mr  Dannet  Foorth  and  to  Mr  Thomas 
Foorth.  To  the  poore  of  Haverhill  where  I  design  to  be  interred  by  my  dear  sister  Anna 

Coleman.  To  my  cousen  Margarett  Hoult  and  to  George  Gibbs.  Unto  the  town  of  Bumstead 

Hellions  the  surne  of  twelve  pounds  a  year  to  be  paid  out  of  my  ffarme  called  the  Copy  Farme 
towards  the  maintaining  of  a  Gospel  Minister  to  preach  there,  that  is  to  say  one  of  them 
comonly  called  Dissenters,  not  to  the  Church,  because  they  want  it  not.  All  the  residue  of  my 
estate  together  with  the  Copy  Farme  which  I  hold  of  the  Master  and  Fellows  of  Queen’s  College 
in  Cambridge  I  give  unto  my  brother  Michael  Rayner  whom  I  appoint  sole  executor  this  twenty 
fourth  day  of  June  1696.  Decimo  sexto  die  Maij  1700  emavit  comeo  Wiftmo  Rayner  extori 

nominat’  in  testamento  Michael18  Rayner  dum  vixit  executoris  Margaretce  Foorth  ad  administrand  &c. 

P.C.C.  72  Noel. 


ftljanrern  fJrnaritmjs,  IBrnkme  c.  jfortlj,  1697. 

Samuell  Browne  of  London,  Merchant,  and  Elizabeth  his  wife,  sole  executrix  of  the  will  of 
George  Saunders,  late  of  London,  Gentleman,  her  former  hnsband,  Complainants  against  William 
Foorthe  of  Eriswell,  co.  Suffolk,  clerk,  and  Anne,  his  wife.  The  further  answer  of  William  Foorth 
and  Anne  his  wife,  two  of  the  Defendants.  In  consideration  of  a  marriage  lately  solemnized 
between  said  William  Foorth  and  Anne  Archer,  daughter  and  only  child  of  Isaac  Archer  of 
Mildenliall,  co.  Suffolk,  clerk,  and  of  ffive  hundred  pounds,  her  marriage  porcon,  it  was  agreed 
by  Indenture  dated  2  Aprill  1691,  that  the  said  William  Foorth  should,  for  the  joynture  of  the 
said  Anne,  sell  unto  the  said  Isaac  Archer  and  to  John  Pamplyn  of  Haddenham  in  the  Isle  of 
Ely  Esqr,  the  Watermill  called  Cooke’s  Mill  ais  Gibson’s  Mill,  with  lauds,  orchards,  gardens, 
ponds,  fflood  gates,  dams,  ffishing  places  etc.  in  Westburgholt  &  Fordham,  co.  Essex,  which  said 
William  Foorth  purchased  of  the  said  Isaac  Archer  in  March  last  past,  and  also  two  messuages, 
sometimes  called  Barham  and  Mallowes  in  Feltwell  co.  Norfolke  and  forty  acres  of  enclosed  ffen 
<tc.  which  William  Foorth,  Doctor  of  LawTes,  deceased,  vnckle  of  the  said  William  Foorth  purchased 
of  William  Smith,  and  also  of  ground  in  Feltwell,  decreed  to  the  said  messuages  in  lieu  of  a 
right  of  way,  4th  May  1680.  Indenture  mentioned,  dated  23  June  1669,  between  William  Foorth 
of  the  parish  of  St.  Giles  in  the  fields  co.  Middlesex,  Doctor  of  Lawes,  Margarett  his  wife  & 
Mary  Foorth,  mother  of  the  said  Dr.  William  Foorth,  of  the  one  part,  and  Thomas  Foorth, 
Citizen  &  Merchant  Tailor  of  London  (brother  of  the  said  Dr.  William  Foorth  and  ffather  of 
'William  Foorth  party  to  these  psents)  of  the  other  part.  Said  premises  are  held  in  trust  by 
the  said  Isaac  Archer  and  John  Pamplyn  to  the  use  of  the  said  William  Foorth  (party  to  these 


d 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES, 


318 

psents)  during  his  naturall  life,  and  after  his  death  to  the  use  of  the  said  Anne  in  part  of  her 
joynture,  and  immediately  after  her  decease  to  the  use  and  behoofe  of  the  heirs  of  the  body  of 
the  said  Anne  by  the  said  William  Foorth,  and  for  default  of  such  issue,  to  the  right  use  of 
the  said  William.  Collins  I.  B.  &  A.  No.  SIS. 

The  Indenture  of  June  23,  1669,  is  referred  to  in  the  Chancery  Proceedings  of  Forth  c. 
Forth,  1680,  in  which  William  Forth,  the  defendant  in  the  present  suit,  appears  as  complainant. 
He  was  then  of  the  University  of  Cambridge.  See  page  115  for  abstract  of  the  pleadings 
recorded  on  that  occasion. 


®tU  of  Jltarg  JltarsIjaU,  1715. 

I  Mary  Marshall  of  London,  widow,  being  infirm  of  body,  and  that  increased  by  my  grief 

for  the  death  of  my  late  dear  and  loving  husband  Mr  Joseph  Marshall,  do  make  my  last  will. 

I  desire  to  be  decently  but  privately  buried  in  the  parish  church  of  S*  Mary  Aldermary  as  near 
the  corps  of  my  dear  husband  as  may  be.  I  give  to  the  Charity  School  in  Gravell  Lane  in 
Southwark  the  sumrne  of  one  hundred  pounds.  •  I  bequeath  unto  and  amongst  twenty  poor 
Dissenting  Ministers  the  summe  of  two  hundred  pounds,  that  is  to  say  to  each  of  them  ten 
pounds  a  peice.  I  give  amongst  twenty  poor  widows  the  summe  of  one  hundred  pounds.  I 
direct  that  there  shall  be  paid  out  of  my  estate  to  those  my  relations  next  after  named  the 
several  annuities  following,  viz* — to  my  cousin  Dannetta  Dellingham  daughter  of  my  late  uncle 
Dannett  Foorth  the  yearly  summe  of  twenty  pounds;  to  my  cousin  Sarah  Jukes  daughter  of  my 
late  uncle  Thomas  Foorth  the  yearly  summe  of  ten  pounds,  and  to  my  cousin  Mary  Terry, 
widow  of  Stephen  Terry,  the  like  yearly  summe  of  ten  pounds,  which  said  annuities  shall  be  paid 
for  their  owne  seperate  and  respective  uses  without  the  intermedling  of  their  husbands.  I  give 

to  my  cousin  John  Meade  one  hundred  pounds ;  to  my  cousins  Mathew,  Samuel,  Robert,  Francis, 

Rebecca  and  Mary  Meade,  sons  and  daughters  of  my  late  uncle-  Richard  Meade  fifty  pounds 
a  peice.  To  my  cousin  Rebecca  Shrimpton  wife  of  Epaphras  Shrimpton  of  Boston  in  New  England 
the  summe  of  two  hundred  pounds  and  all  my  household  linnen.  To  my  cousin  Mathew 
Rolleston  of  Friday  Street  London  ffifty  pounds  and  to  my  cousin  Deborah  Rolleston  his  sister 
one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  cousin  Samuel  Rolleston  (brother  of  the  said  Mathew)  the  summe 
of  ffive  hundred  pounds  if  he  shall  be  bred  a  Dissenting  Minister,  when  he  shall  attain  his  age 
of  twenty  one  years.  To  my  aforesaid  cousin  Dannetta  Dellingham’s  two  daughters  one  hundred 
pounds  a  peice.  To  each  of  the  two  daughters  of  my  cousin  Elizabeth  Wildbore  daughter  of 
my  late  uncle  John  Foorth  one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  cousin  Elizabeth  Baker,  wife  of  James 
Baker,  one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  aforesaid  cousin  Mary  Terry’s  son  and  daughter,  ffifty 
pounds  a  peice.  To  Richard  Baker  Cittizen  and  Skinner  of  London  and  to  Anne  his  wife  ffive 
pounds  a  peice.  To  the  three  children  of  widow  Smith,  who  was  the  neice  of  Martha  Lathum 
deceased,  twenty  pounds.  My  late  dear  husband  did  desire  me  to  give  unto  Joseph  Higgison  son 
of  my  neice  Elianor  Higgison  the  summe  of  one  hundred  pounds.  I  do  likewise  give  him  the 
further  summe  of  one  hundred  pounds.  To  my  loving  brother  Benjamin  Marshall  and  to  my 
neice  Anne  Marshall  the  summe  of  two  hundred  pounds  a  peice.  To  my  said  neice  Elianor 
Higgison  one  hundred  pounds  and  to  my  cousin  Sarah  Foorth  daughter  of  my  late  uncle  Dannett 
Foorth  twenty  pounds.  To  my  cousin  Joseph  Reynolds,  writing  master,  one  hundred  pounds. 


BURROUGH  OF  WICKHAMBROOK. 


319 


To  Sr  Nathaniel  Meade  ten  guineas  for  mourning  and  to  Dr.  Richard  Meade  also  ten  guineas. 
To  Mr  Tongue  and  Mr  Newman,  Ministers  of  Salters  Hall  London  ten  pounds  each.  To  M™ 

Elizabeth  Johnson  widow,  ten  guineas.  To  my  cousin  Mary  Meade  wife  of  Robert  Meade  son 

of  my  uncle  Mathew  Meade  my  best  muff  tippet.  To  Mrs  Anne  Ashley  my  gold  watch.  To 
Mrs  Anne  Clarke,  daughter  of  Mr  Clarke  the  Dissenting  Minister  ten  pounds,  and  to  Mrs  Rebecca 
Bedford  ffive  pounds.  I  will  that  eighty  rings  of  twenty  shillings  price  each  shall  be  given 

amongst  my  relations  and  acquaintance.  To  my  loving  cousin  William  Meade  of  Aylesbury,  gent, 

all  my  late  jewels  and  household  goods,  and  the  residue  of  my  estate,  and  I  ordain  him  sole 
executor  16th  January  1715.  Probatum  decimo  quinto  die  Junij  1716  juramento  Gulielmi  Meade 
executoris.  P.C.C.  121  Fox. 


Will  of  $tare  jfortlj,  1717. 

The  last  Will  and  Testament  of  me  Mary  Forth  of  Mildenhall  in  the  County  of  Suffolk, 
spinster,  made  this  seventh  day  of  July  1717.  I  give  unto  my  youngest  sister  Sarah  Forth  all 
my  apparel  and  linnen.  One  half  of  all  my  lands  and  tenements  to  my  said  sister  Sarah  Forth 
and  her  heirs  for  ever  and  the  other  moiety  unto  my  two  brothers  William  Forth  and  Isaac  Forth 
and  my  sister  Anne  Forth  and  their  heires  as  tenants  in  cornon  and  not  as  joint  tenants.  I 
appoint  my  dear  Mother  Mr*  Anne  Forth  sole  executrix,  to  whom  I  give  such  rents,  issues  and 
proffetts  as  shall  first  grow  due.  Probatum  vicesimo  octavo  die  Novembris  1721  juramento  Annie 
Foorth  executricis.  P.C.C.  200  Buckingham. 


Will  of  Jltargartf  Jfortlj,  1718. 

Margaret  Foorth  of  the  parish  of  S*  Mary  Magdalen  Bermondsey  widow.  To  Charles  Price 
and  Margaret  his  wife  of  the  parish  aforesaid.  To  Margaret  Price  their  daughter  one  hundred 
pounds  to  be  paid  to  Nathaniel  Price  her  uncle  until  she  attain  her  age  of  one  and  twenty  years. 
If  she  die  before  such  age  I  give  said  hundred  pounds  to  Elizabeth  Price  her  sister.  Unto  Alice 
Powell  widow,  Joseph  Powell,  Mary  Slingsby,  Peter  Powell  and  Ursula  Powell.  To  Elizabeth  Murrill 
and  Alice  Reddish  of  the  parish  'of  S*  Gyles  Cripplegate.  To  John  Sargant  the  elder  and  John 
Sargant  the  younger  both  of  the  County  of  Salop  and  to  Jane  Sargant.  To  Richard  Purcell  of 
Ken  wick  Parke  in  the  County  of  Salop.  To  Thomas  Jukes,  Yicar  of  Halesowen,  co.  Salop  and  to 
Sarah  his  wife  and  to  Sarah  and  Elizabeth  his  daughters  and  to  George  and  Charles  his  sons.  To 
Mary  Crosley  at  Hooke  in  Hampshire.  To  Thomas  and  John  Pursell.  All  the  residue  of  my 
estate  to  William  Jukes  who  for  some  time  past  hath  been  assisting  to  me  in  my  affaires  since  the 
death  of  my  late  dear  husband  George  Foorth  and  was  his  near  kinsman.  I  appoint  said  William 
Jukes  full  and  sole  executor.  I  bequeath  my  lands  and  messuages  to  the  said  William  Jukes  and 
doe  ratify  the  settlement  of  some  part  of  them  which  I  have  made  by  Indenture  tripartite  bearing 
date  14th  and  15th  March  1717  between  me  the  said  Margarett  Foorth  and  John  Willins  of 
London,  brewer,  of  the  first  part,  Lewen  Cholmley  of  London,  gent,  and  Thomas  Smalley  of  the 
parish  of  S1  Mary  Magdalen  Bermondsey,  of  the  second  part,  and  the  said  William  Jukes  of  the 
third  part,  of  some  part  of  my  lands  and  tenements  To  this  will  I  sett  my  hand  and  seale 
this  23d  August  1718.  Probatum  nono  die  Octobris  1718  juramento  Wiffmi  Jukes  executoris. 

P.C.C.  192  Tenison. 


320 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


SRUl  of  Untrn  Jfortl),  1746. 

Henry  Forth  of  Darlington  co.  Durham,  Esqr  5th  April,  1746.  To  Abraham  Hilton,  second 
son  of  Abraham  Hilton  of  Cockerton  co.  Durham  Esqr  by  Marg‘  his  wife  my  eight  messuages  in 
Darlington.  To  Mrs  Mary  Yane,  2nd  daughter  of  the  Honble  Henry  Vane  of  Raby  Castle,  all  those 
five  closes  in  Darlington  called  Skepper  Closes,  held  by  me  under  lease  from  the  Bishop  of  Durham  ; 
also  three  closes  called  Wardale  Furrs,  held  of  the  Manor  of  Bondgato  in  Darlington  ;  also  my 
five  sixth  share  of  those  water  corn  mills  in  Darlington  called  the  Bishop’s  Mills.  To  said  Mrs 
Mary  Vane  my  messuage  or  farmhold  at  Stoddy  alias  Stothey,  parish  of  Dinsdale  ;  also  my 
messuages  or  farmholds  in  the  parishes  of  Middleton  Sb  George  and  Newbiggin,  all  sometime  since 
purchased  by  me  from  the  IP  Hon.  Christr  Lord  Barnard.  To  Mary  Hilton,  infant  daughter 
of  sd  Abraham  &  Margaret  Hilton  £200.  To  Captain  Anthony  Smith  £50. 

To  sd  Hon.  Henry  Vane,  my  study  of  books,  A  also  those  six  pictures  or  portraits  of  the 

family  to  which  I  have  the  honour  to  belong,  desiring  that  they  may  remain  at  Raby  Castle  for 

the  use  A  entertainm*  of  himself  &  such  of  his  posterity  as  shall  at  any  time  reside  there. 

If  sd  Mrs  Mary  Vane  shall  die  before  me,  then  the  messes  Ac.  devised  to  her  to  go  to 

the  younger  children  of  sd  Henry  Vane  by  the  Rb  Hon.  the  Lady  Grace  Vane.  Residue  of 

personal  A  real  estate  in  the  Counties  of  Durham  &  York  to  sd  Mrs  Mary  Vaue,  my  executrix. 

And  now  after  resigning  my  soul  into  the  hands  of  Almighty  God  for  pardon  A  forgiveness 
of  my  sins  through  the  only  merits  &  mediation  of  my  blessed  Saviour,  A  leaving  my  body 
to  the  discretion  of  my  extrix,  not  being  in  the  least  solliciateous  about  it,  I  take  my  leave 
of  a  vane  A  troublesome  world,  a  place  I  have  long  thought  upon  with  indifferancy. 

If  sd  Mary  Hilton  die  under  twenty  one,  I  give  sd  £200  to  -lames  son  of  Mr  Abraham 
Smith  of  Bp.  Auckland,  clerk.  To  Mr  Richd  Hilton  of  Darlington  £10. 

Admon  with  will  annexed  granted  8  July  1746  by  the  Prerogative  Court  of  York. 


QLljanccry  prom&ttujs,  Salltc  t.  Jfnrtlj,  1698. 

James  Tillie  of  Pentillie  Castle  in  Cornwall,  complainant.  John  Forth  Esqr,  heretofore 
Alderman  of  London,  had  large  brewhouses  at  Kingston  on  Thames  and  Taunton  co.  Somerset 
and  sugar  works  in  Middlesex  and  iron- works  in  Worcestershire  and  was  a  Farmer  of  the  Excise 
and  of  the  Kings  Revenues  in  Ireland.  He  became  indebted  to  His  Majesty  fifty  thousand 
pounds  and  mortgaged  his  property.  He  died  intestate  in  Decr  1676,  leaving  issue  by  Albinia 
his  relict,  a  daughter  of  Sir  Henry  Vane,  Henry  Forth  an  infant  of  very  tender  years,  and  by 
a  former  wife  Elizabeth  Forth  and  Martha  Forth  then  under  age.  Albinia  in  forlorn  condition 
sought  assistance  of  your  Orator,  who  afterwards  married  -.  .  .  Vane  one  of  her  sisters,  and 
your  Orator  helped  them  all.  Matthew  Meade  of  London,  clerk,  and  Dame  Frances  Vane,  mother 
of  said  Albinia,  were  parties  to  trusts.  Albinia  died  in  August  or  September,  1679.  Thomas 
Hillersden  Esqr  had  married  Anne,  eldest  sister  of  the  whole  blood  to  Elizabeth  and  Martha,  and 
Joseph  Dawson,  Alderman  of  London,  deceased,  married  one  other  sister.  Christopher  Vane  Esqr, 
now  Christopher  Lord  Bernard  was  himself  a  creditor  of  John  Forth,  who  was  greatly  involved. 
Your  Orator  preserved  some  houses  at  Stroud  Green  Ac.  for  Henry  Forth  the  son  who  was  under 
his  care.  Elizabeth  Forth  abovenamed  married  Nicholas  Wildbore  and  Martha  Forth  one  Hillersden 
of  Devonshire.  Henry  Forth  came  of  age  and,  influenced  by  some  of  his  great  relations,  brought 
actions  at  law  against  your  Orator.  Reynardson  I.  and  II,  475-80. 


FORTH  OF  LONDON, 


321 


jfortl)  of  3Lontion. 


William  Forth  of  Hadleigh,=j=Dorothy,  dau.  and  coh.  Richard  Barker  of=j=Mary,  dau.  of  Stepheu=pHenry  Bright  of=YYilliain  Cole, 


co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  younger 
brother  to  Robert  Forth  of 
Butley  (see  page  119);  bapt. 
at  Nettlestead,  1579.  Brass 
in  Hadleigh  church.  Will, 
P.C.C.  73  Kidd,  10  Sept. 
1 599, proved  3  Oct.following. 


of  Richard  Harvey  of 
Worlingworth,co.  Suff. , 
by  Joan,  dau.  and  heir 
of  Thomas  Keen  of 
Starston,  co.  Norff. 
Harl.  MSS.  155 2d;  1560. 
She  died  14  Oct.  1581. 


Nayland,  co.  Suff. 
Inq.  p.m.  40  Eliz. 
Died  7  Nov.  1594. 
Held  Fen  Streete 
and  the  House  at 
Hill  of  the  Crown. 


Woodgate  of  East  Berg- 
holt,  co.  Suff ,  who 
made  will,  P.O.C.  90 
Lewyn,  1598.  Had 
lands  in  Nayland.  De¬ 
visee  1618  of  Thomas 
Bright,  her  son. 


|  Bury. St.  Edmunds. 
Adm.  P.C.C.  1610. 
Devisee,  with  wife 
and  children,  of 
Benjamin  Wood- 
gate,  her  brother, 
in  1603. 


Gent.,  named  in 
Bury  Guildhall 
Records  and  in 
the  will  of  his 
stepson,  Thomas 
Bright. 


Philip  Forth  of  Had¬ 
ley,  Esq.,  sou  and  h.; 
bapt.  there  1572  ; 
mar.  Joan  Walton. 
Will,  P.C.C.  119 
Twisse,  12  A  pril 
1642,  proved  1646. 
For  his  issue,  see 
page  119. 
r- 


William  Forth,  2d  sur-=j=Mary  Barker,  sole  dau. 

and  heir,  aged  one  year 
in  1594  ;  had  livery  of 
the  Nayland  lands,  9 
Jas. ;  mar.  lie.,  20  June 
1611,  Bp.  Lond.;  living 
1669  ;  half-sister  to  the 
Brights  of  New  Eng¬ 
land. 


viving  son;  bapt.  at  Had¬ 
leigh,  1579  ;  of  Nayland, 
co.  Suffolk,  Gent.,  1620  ; 
of  Barking,  co.  Suffolk. 
1631.  Sold  estate  in  Net¬ 
tlestead,  4  Car.  Devisee 
of  Elizabeth  Dell,  1657. 


Mary, bapt.  21  Oct. 
1614;  mar.  1st  Ed¬ 
ward  Parks,  Citizen 
&  Merchant  Tailor 
of  London,  who 
made  will,  P.C.C. 
10  Grey,  proved 
1651 ;  by  whom 
issue.  2nd, William 
Cawley.  She  was 
living  1693. 


Martha,  born  1617  ;  mar. 
William  Smith,  Rector  of 
Hockwold  and  of  Feltwell, 
Norfolk,  who  made  will, 
P.C.C.  34  Mico,  1664.  He 
died  28  Dec.  1665,  aet. 
64,  and  she  in  March 
1668,  aet.  51.  M.I.  in 
Hockwold  chancel  with 
Arms  of  Smith  impaling 
Forth. 


Thomas  Bright  of 
Ipswich,  M  erchan  t. 
Will,  P.C.C.  13 
Hele,  17  Ap.  1618. 
Ob.  s  p.  “  Marie 
my  sister  nowe 
wife  of  William 
Forthe  of  Nay¬ 
land.” 


HenryBright, 
under  age, 
1618.  Of  New 
England, 
where  he  died 
1680. 

John  Bright. 


Elizabeth,  ux. 
.  .  .  Dell  ;  ob. 
s.p.  See  her 
will,  P.C.C. 
1657, at  p.l  14. 
Names  her 
brother,  ffm. 
Forth  and  his 
children. 


- 1 

Martha,  wife 
of  James 
Blowers,  who 
was  beyond 
the  seas  in 
Aug.  1663, 
when  his  goods 
came  to  his 
widow,  P.C.C. 


Abigail, 
bapt.  16 
May 
1620. 


William  Forth,  LL.D.,  of  St. 
in-the-Fields,  and  after  of 
gate,  co,  Middx.  ;  bapt.  22  Sept. 
1612  ;  purchased  lands  in  Feltwell, 
Norfolk,  1656,  of  William  Smith,  his 
brother  in  law.  Will,  P.C.C.  76 
Duke,  proved  30  Juue  1671.  See 
page  115  for  settlement  of  his  Felt¬ 
well  property.  Forth  c.  Forth , 
1680  Whittington  II,  204. 


Giles-=Margaret,  execu- 
High-  trix to  her  husband 
1671  ;  defendant 
in  Forth  c.  Forth, 
1680.  Her  will, 
P.C.C.  72  Noel, 
dated  24  June 
1696,  was  proved 
16  May  1700.  She 
d.  s.p. 


Robert  Forth; 
had  daughter 
Mary,  1696. 
Was  this  Mary 
Marshall  ? 

Did  he  m.  the 
sister  of  Mat¬ 
thew  Meade, 
the  celebrated 
divine  ? 


Dannett  Forth,  Esq  ,  Alder¬ 
man  of  London,  eldest  son, 
living  1693.  Nephew  by 
marriage  to  Dannett  Poyn- 
tell  of  London  (see  p.  119). 
Arms  in  Brewer’s  Hall,  Lon¬ 
don.  See  Orridge’s  Citizens 
and  their  Rulers. 


Thomas  Forth,  Citizen  and=f=. 
Merchant  Tailor  of  London, 
on  whom  his  uncle.  Dr.  Forth, 
settled  his  lease  of  Easthall 
Manor  in  Feltwell,  23  June, 

21  Chas.  II.  (See  Forth  c. 
Forth,  p.  115.) 


lst=j=John  Forth,  Esq.,  Alderman  of= 


Mary,  born  circa  1644  ; 
mar.  1674  Francis  St. 
John  of  Longthorpe, 
Northampton,  eldest  son 
of  the  Lord  Chief  Jus¬ 
tice  and  ancestor  of 
William  Drogo,  7  th 
Duke’  of  Manchester. 
She  was  living  1693. 


- 1— l - 

Martha,  aged  32 
iu  1692,  when  she 
mar.  Daniel  Dis¬ 
ney  of  Christ 
Church,  London, 
Esq. 

Rebecca,  Eliza¬ 
beth,  and  Sarah 
Forth,  living  1693. 


- 1 

Dannetta, 
born  circa 
1654,  mar.  12 
Aug.  1681, 
William  Dil¬ 
lingham  of 
St.  Faith’s, 
London,  lace- 
man,  and  had 
issue. 


wife, 
dau.  of 


London  ;  a  Farmer  of  the  Excise 
and  of  the  King’s  Kevenue  in 
Ireland.  Died  intestate  in  Dec. 
1676.  Tillie  c.  Forth,  1698.  Free 
of  the  Brewers,  17  Sept.  1687. 
Arms  in  Brewer’s  H  all.  Admon. 
P.C.C.  1678  and  1686. 


Elizabeth, 
mar.  Nicho¬ 
las  Wild- 
bore  Citizen 
and  Grocer 
of  London. 
She  and  her 
children  liv¬ 
ing  in  1693. 


William  Forth,  LL.B.  Ad¬ 
mitted  Caius  Coll.,  Camb., 
1675,  and  then  aet.  17 ; 
LL.B  ,  1681  ;  ordained 
Deacon,  1682  (Loudon); 
priest, 1683.  Vicar  of  Eris- 
well,  Suffolk.  See  Forth 
c.  Forth,  1680,  on  page  115. 


=Anne,  sole  dau. 
and  heir  of  Rev. 
Isaac  Archer, 
B.A-,  Vicar  of 
Mildenhall,  co. 
Suffolk.  Browne 
c.  Forth,  1697. 
(See  page  317). 


T 


J 


Mary,  Susanna, mar. 
mar.  1675  atAllHallows 
Thomas  on  the  Wall, 
Hillers-  London, 
don  of  1675,  to  Jos- 
Elstow,  eph  Dawson 
co.Beds.  ofEdmonton, 
Esq.  She  Gent. ,  after 
then  Alderman  of 
aged  19.  London. 


Martha, 
mar.  1686 
Richard 
Hillersdon 
of  Devon- 
liire,Gent. 
She  was  a 
widow  in 
1693  and 
had  issue. 


=Albinia,  2d  wife, 
posthumous  dau. 
of  Sir  Harry  Vane 
of  Baby  Castle  ; 
mar.  lie.,  17  April 
1668,  she  then 
aet.  24. 


Henry  Forth  of  Dar¬ 
lington,  co.  Dur¬ 
ham, Esq., only  son ; 
ob.  17  June  1746, 
aet.  72.  No  issue 
by  Mary,  his  wife. 
Will,  Cur.  Prserog. 
Ebor.,  prov.  8  July 
same  year.  See 
Hist,  of  Darlington 


ThomasForth  GeorgeForthof=Margaret.  Her 


of  Feltwell, 
Norfolk,  died 
s.p.  Adm. 
P.C.C.  1694, 
to  William 
Forth,  his 
brother. 


St.  Mary  Mag¬ 
dalen,  South¬ 
wark,  Brewer. 
Will,P.C.C.207 
Whitfield, prov. 
Nov.1717.  Ob. 

s.p. 


will,  P.C.C. 
192  Tenison, 
prov.  9  Oct. 
1718,  by  Wil¬ 
liam  J  ukes. 
her  nephew. 


- 1 

Sarah, = 
devisee 
of 

George 

Forth, 

her 

brother. 


i — i — i — r~~ 
Isaac  Forth. 

William  Forth. 

Anne  Forth. 

Sarah  Forth. 


Mary  Forth  of 
Mildenhall,  co. 
Suffolk.  Will, 
P.C.C.200  Buck¬ 
ingham,  7  July 
17l7,prov.8Nov. 
1721,  by  Anne 
Forth,  her 
mother.  Ob.  s.p. 


William  J  ukes  of 
London,  Mer¬ 
chant  ;  d.  1749. 
Will,  P.C.C.  112 
Lisle.  =Eliza- 
beth,  da.  of  Jos- 
ephClark.  A  quo 
Jukes  op  Brom¬ 
ley,  Kent, 


- 1 - 

George  Jukes  of 
London,  Mer¬ 
chant,  bur.  at 
Bromley,  Kent. 
Will,  p!  C,C.  117 
Hutton,  1758. 
His  nephew 
Jukes  Coulson, 
was  his  heir. 


- 1 - 

Charles 

Jukes, 

mar. 

Eliza¬ 

beth 


T 


Sarah  Jukes,- 
born  at  Meth- 
wold,  Norfolk, 

2  Mar.  1691 ;  m. 
at  Halesowen, 

Staffs.  Lie. Wore, 

12  Feb.  1709. 

A  quo  Jukes  Coulson  of  West- 
bourne  Place  co.  Middlesex,  and 
now  of  Frognal,  Hampstead. 


=Rev.  Thomas  Jukes,  M.A.,  son  of 
John  Jukes  of  Bridgenorth,  Shrop¬ 
shire  ;  Pembroke  Coll.,  Oxon.  1676, 
aet.  17  ;  Curate  of  Eriswell,  Suffolk  ; 
Vicar  of  Methwold,  &c.,  Norfolk, 
1670-6.  Blomefif.ld.  Vicar  of  Hales¬ 
owen,  co.  Wore.  Tablet  in  church 
there.  Add.  MS.  21,237,  f.  396. 
- 1 

Elizabeth  Jukes,  mar. 
Capt.  Robt.  Allen,  lt.N., 
who  commanded  the 
“  Royal  Sovereign,”  and 
H.M.  Yacht,  “the  Mary.” 
Bur.  with  her  husband  in 
Greenwich  church,  1784. 
Will,  P.C.C.  69  Rocking¬ 
ham.  A  quo  Allen  op 
Blackheath. 

2  s 


John  Coulson 
of  Halesowen, 
and  after¬ 
wards  of 
Walsall,  co. 
Stafford. 
sl/(Mayor,1751). 


Appleton  of  WaltirngfieltL 


Armorial  Hearings. 

The  Arms  of  Appleton  of  Waldingfield,  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1577,  were  Argent,  a  fess 
Sable,  between  three  apples  Gules,  stalked  and  leaved  Vert.  The  Crest,  an  elephant’s  head  Sable, 

eared  and  tusked  Or,  wreathed  round  the  trunk  a  snake  entering  the  mouth  Vert.  The  same 

Arms  and  Crest  were  allowed  at  the  Visitation  of  1664,  with  a  shield  of  pretence,  for  More  of 
Wiggenhall  St.  Germain,  Sable,  a  swan  with  wings  expanded  Argent,  beaked  and  legged  Or, 
within  a  border  engrailed.  A  separate  escutcheon  at  the  side  of  the  tricking  in  Harl.  MS.  10S5 
has  More  quartering  Ermine  a  spear’s  head  embrued  with  blood  proper. 

On  the  brass  of  Mary  Appleton,  1526,  in  the  church  of  Waldingfield  Magna,  her  figure  is 
surmounted  by  an  achievement  in  which  Appleton  quarters  Crane,  Argent,  a  fess  between  three 
crosses  crosslet  fitchee  Gules,  and  impales  Mountney,  Azure,  a  bend  between  six  martlets  Or. 

Some  heraldic  collections  of  the  seventeenth  century,  as,  for  example,  Harl.  MSS.  1196 
and  1560 ,  represent  Appleton’s  coat  as  Quarterly  of  twelve  :  1,  Appleton;  2,  Crane;  3,  Mollington, 

Or,  a  fess  between  two  chevrons  Azure  ;  4,  Carbonell,  Gules,  a  cross  Argent,  within  a  border 

engrailed  Or ;  5,  Butler,  Argent,  three  covered  cups  in  bend  Sable,  cotised  Gules  ;  6,  Sexton  ; 
7,  Mountney  ;  8,  Isack,  Sable,  a  bend  Or,  in  sinister  chief  a  leopard’s  face  of  the  second ; 
9,  Condy,  “  Vice-admirall  to  the  Kynge,”  Barry  wavy  Argent  and  Azure,  three  anchors  Or  (the 
MSS.  differ  as  to  the  number  of  bars  and  of  anchors);  10,  Tuke,  per  chevron  Argent  and  Sable, 
three  cranes’  heads  erased  counterchanged  ;  11,  Hawte,  Or,  a  cross  engrailed  Gules  ;  12,  Wheathill, 
per  fess  Azure  and  Or,  a  pale  counterchanged,  three  lions  rampant  of  the  second.  Crest,  out  of 
a  ducal  coronet  Or,  three  pine  apples  Vert,  the  tops  purfled  of  the  first.  Motto,  “  Difficilis 
sed  fructuosa.” 

It  should  be  observed  that  these  MSS.  have  no  official  authority,  that  the  crest  they 
depict  is  not  that  of  the  Suffolk  Visitations,  and  that  some  at  least  of  the  numerous  quarterings 
attributed  to  Appleton  have  been  assumed  upon  evidence  which  is  exceedingly  doubtful. 

An  excellent  account  of  the  Waldingfield  family  will  be  found  in  the  “Memorial  of  Samuel 
Appleton  of  Ipswich,  Massachusetts,”  by  Isaac  Appleton  Jewett.  It  gives  in  full  the  pedigrees 
of  Appleton  and  Isaaclc  of  Kent  from  Harl.  MS.  1196,  together  with  engravings,  including  the 
brass  of  Mary  Appleton,  and  with  transcripts  of  family  documents,  such  as  the  most  genealogical 
will  of  liobert  Byece,  1637,  and  the  ancient  Appleton  inscriptions  at  Waldingfield,  as  copied  by 
Weever.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Appleton  Pedigree  and  Arms  from  the  Visitation  of  1577  and 
from  Harl.  MS.  1560,  will  be  found  in  that  useful  work,  “The  Visitations  of  Suffolk,”  edited  by 
Walter  C.  Metcalfe,  F.S.A. 


APPLETON  OF  WALDINGFIELD. 


323 


Will  of  ®Ijomas  Appleton,  1504* 

I  Thomas  Apullton  of  Litell  Waldyngfeld  in  the  diocese  of  Norwich  make  my  testament 
the  xxu  day  of  Januarye  the  yere  of  or  lord  m1  vc  iiij  and  of  the  Reigne  of  Kyng  Henry 
the  vijth  the  xxth  yere.  First  I  bequeth  my  soule  to  almighty  god,  to  or  lady  seynt  Mary  and 
to  all  the  holy  copany  of  heven.  And  my  body  to  be  bnried  in  the  church  of  seynt  lawrence  in 
Waldyngfeld  nyghe  to  my  wif.  I  will  haue  a  priest  syngyng  in  Waldingfeld  the  space  of  iiii  yeres 
for  me  my  fader  and  moder  my  wif  and  other  my  kynnesfolke  and  my  benefactors.  I  geve  to 
the  church  of  Waldingfeld  a  vestmet  w4  deken  and  subdeken  off  suche  color  and  price  as  shalbe 
thought  metely  and  convenyet  for  the  said  church.  I  will  that  the  nonnys  of  Mailing  haue 
iiij11  in  fowre  yeres  to  the  convent  to  sey  Placebo  and  Dirige  w4  masse  of  Requiem  for  me  the 

day  of  myn  obite.  I  will  that  Dame  Anne  my  doughter  haue  xiij3  iiijd  yerely  owte  of  my 

londs  and  tents  y4  I  haue  in  Kersey,  Grotton  and  other  townes  the  which  I  haue  geven  to  my 
son  William  Appulton.  To  my  son  Gilbert  Appulton  vij  horses  w4  the  plough  and  a  cartt  w4  all 
the  harneys  thereto  belonging,  viij  keen,  a  masse  booke  w4  a  challice,  aulter  clothes  and  vestments. 
To  my  son  the  pson  of  Lanehm  my  gilt  cupp  w4  the  couJyng.  I  give  him  my  best  salt.  I 
will  Robert  Appulton  haue  myn  other  salt  of  silu).  And  I  will  that  my  son  William  Appulton 
haue  my  flatt  pece  of  sill?  &  the  coulyng  of  the  same.  I  will  that  Robert  Appulton  haue 
iij  gobletts  of  siluer  and  a  stonding  maser.  I  will  that  my  nappry  and  beddyng  and  all  other 
stuff  of  household  be  devided  betwene  son  Robert  and  his  broder  Richard.  I  will  that  he 
that  hath  my  man!  of  Holbrok  haue  my  ferme  of  Branston  hall  duryne  myn  yers.  I  will  that 

all  suche  plate  and  Jewells  as  here  foloweth  that  William  Appulton  gave  his  moder  that  he  haue 

them  agen  according  to  his  moders  will  and  myn,  that  is  to  sey  a  dokett  of  gold  to  the  value  of 

xlvi8,  a  ryng  of  dokett  gold  after  the  faccon  of  a  hopp,  a  flat  pece  of  silu]  whereof  the  bremys  be 

gilte,  a  maser  that  I  drynk  of  daiely,  a  newe  long  carpett  that  he  sent  his  moder.  And  thies 
ben  the  Jewells  that  I  and  his  moder  yeve  hym.  In  primis  a  ryng  w4  a  blewe  stone  that  the 

Abbess  of  Brussyerd  hir  sister  gave  hir  the  tyme  of  hir  decease,  and  half  a  doseyn  of  silu]  sponys 

w4  grete  gilte  knoppis  on  the  ende  of  eu)y  spone  that  he  ded  doo  make  for  his  moder.  The  residue 
of  my  goods  I  remytt  to  myn  executors  toward  the  amendyng  of  the  high  way  leddyng  fro  my 
Ma9  of  Holbrook  to  the  well.  I  make  myn  executors  my  suster  Margaret  Spryng,  my  son  Thomas 
Appulton  pson  of  Lanehm  and  my  son  William  Appulton.  And  suguisor  my  nevew  Thomas  Spryng 
to  whom  I  give  for  a  remembrance  a  signett  of  gold  graven  w4  Seynt  John’s  head.  Probation 
nono  die  ffebr  1508  Jur  Willi  Appulton  executoris  Reseruate  potestate  Margarete  Spring  executrici. 

P.C.C.  11  Bennett. 


Will  of  William  ^pplrloir,  1512. 

The  xx  day  of  the  rnoneth  of  July  1512  I  William  Appulton,  Citizen  and  drag  of  London, 
willinge  not  to  departe  hens  intestate  make  this  my  present  testament.  I  give  my  soule  to 
almighty  god  my  maker  and  to  our  blessed  lady  saint  mary  the  virgin  his  glorious  moder  and 
to  all  the  holy  company  of  hevyn.  I  will  that  my  goods  be  devided  into  thre  equall  parts 
whereof  I  .will  that  Elizabeth  my  wife  shalhaue  one  accordinge  to  the  custume  of  the  Citie  of 
London.  And  I  reserue  to  me  and  my  executours  to  the  pfourmnunce  of  my  legacies  the  secunde 

2  S2 


324 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


parte,  and  the  thirde  parte  I  geve  to  William  Appulton  and  to  Edwarde  Appulton  my  sonnes  and 
to  the  enfaunte  nowe  beinge  in  the  wombe  of  my  wyfe  when  they  shall  com  to  their  lawfull  age 
or  marriage.  I  geve  to  the  high  awter  of  Alhalowen  Berkyng  in  Towrestrete  of  the  Citie  of 
London  iijs  iiijd.  Also  to  the  werk  of  the  body  of  the  churche  of  litell  Weldingfelde  in  SufF.  xls — 
an  honest  prest  to  pray  for  my  soule  by  the  space  of  iii  yeres.  My  brother  Kichard  Appulton 
hath  deliuered  me  in  gage  all  his  evidencs  concernynge  Honston  Hall  the  whiche  my  cosyn  Edward 
Stubbes  hath  in  kepyng.  I  constitute  William  Strode  mchunt,  my  cosyn  Edward  Stubbes  gentilman 
and  William  Roche  of  london  drap,  my  executours  to  se  the  premisses  truely  executed.  As 
touchinge  the  disposicioh  of  my  londs  tenements  rents  and  seruics  I  will  that  my  wyfe  shalhaue 
my  londs  &c.  in  the  pisslie  of  saint  mary  Axe  of  the  said  Citie  of  london  during  her  naturall 
lyfe.  I  will  that  she  haue  in  likewise  all  my  londes  and  tenements  that  I  haue  of  the  gyfte 
of  my  fader  in  Kersey,  Grotton,  Hadley,  Semer  and  Whatfelde  in  the  Countie  of  SufF.  vntO  such 
tyme  as  my  sonne  William  Appulton  shall  come  to  thage  of  xxi  yeres.  And  I  will  that  my  suster 
Dame  Anne  Appulton  haue  out  of  said  londs  yerely  xiij8  iiijd  according  to  my  faders  will.  And 
then  said  William  to  haue  the  same  londs  and  the  heires  of  his  body  foreuermore.  And  for 
default  of  such  issu,  the  remaynder  therof  to  Edward  Appulton  my  sonne,  and  for  defaulte  of 
issu  the  remaynder  to  the  Infaunt  nowe  beinge  in  the  wombe  of  my  said  wife.  And  if  all  my 
childern  decesse  wh>ut  heires  of  their  bodyes  laufully  begoten,  than  I  will  all  my  said  londes  and 
teuts  liooly  remayn  to  Richard  Appulton  my  brother.  Probatum  vltimo  die  Aprilis  1513  Jurament 
Wiffmi  Roche  &  Wiffmi  Strode  executorum.  P.C.C.  21  Fetiplace. 


Will  of  William  ^pploton,  1558. 

The  xx  daye  of  the  moneth  of  September,  1538,  Wiffm  Appulton  of  litle  Waldingfelde, 
Gentleman.  To  be  buryed  in  the  churche.  I  will  at  the  daye  of  my  burying  there  be  a 
dyrige  &  a  masse  song  for  me  &  certayne  monye  distributed  there  amongeste  the  pestes  clerkes  & 
poore  people  as  it  maye  stand  wth  the  King’s  lawes  prayinge  for  my  soule.  To  Rose  my  wife 
my  lease  of  the  mannor  of  Bramston  Hall  in  Mykill  Waldingfelde.  To  Edwarde  Appulton  my 
brother  all  my  apparell.  1  stande  bounde  to  Mr  Perpoynte  of  London  for  the  payenP  of  xxtye 
mkes  for  my  sayde  brother  Edward  Appulton.  The  residue  of  myne  goodes  I  remitte  and  geve 
to  Rose  my  wife.  Instauntly  requireing  sayde  wife  to  be  good  to  Frances  my  daughter  duringe 
her  nonage.  I  ordeyne  her  my  executrixe  of  this  my  will.  Probatum  iido  die  Maij,  1539. 

Arch.  Sudb.,  Liber  “  Longe,”  fo.  301b. 


Will  of  (BMtmrli  ^jjpkton,  1580. 

The  last  daie  of  August  1580.  Edwarde  Appleton  of  Edwardston  in  the  countie  of  SufF. 
gentleraanne.  Ynto  Mr  Doctor  Crooke  twentie  shillings.  To  Mr  Knowstubbes  twentie  shillinges. 
To  Mr  Feilde  of  London,  preacher,  ffortye  shillinges.  To  Mr  Welche  fFyve  poundes  and  to 
Mr  Sandes  of  Boxforde  fFyve  poundes.  Ynto  Alice  my  wiefF  all  the  Residue  of  my  goods,  plate, 
Jewells,  monneye,  corne  and  cattell.  Vnto  the  same  Alice  my  wiefF  all  my  messuages,  liowses, 
lands,  wooddes,  fFermes  and  possessions  in  Edwardstone,  litle  Waldingford,  Much  Waldingforde  aud 


APPLETON  OF  WALDINGFIELD. 


325 


Groton  during  her  naturall  lieff,  and  from  her  deceasse  whollie  to  remayne  vnto  Thomas  Appletonne, 
gentleman,  my  nephewe  and  to  his  heyres  for  ever,  he  to  paie  vnto  Marie  Appleton  his  daughter 
the  somme  of  one  hundred  poundes  in  the  daie  of  her  marriage.  By  my  deede  of  ffeoffament 
bearinge  date  the  eighte  and  twentithe  daie  of  this  presente  Auguste  1580  I  have  enfeoffed  Thomas 
Gale,  Henry  Browne  and  others  in  one  messuage  and  sixe  percells  of  lande  called  Hookers  on 
the  hill,  in  Edwardstone,  to  the  vse  of  me  the  saide  Edward  and  sayde  Alyce  my  wieff  for 
terme  of  oure  lyves  and  after  oure  deceasse  to  the  vse  of  my  saide  feoffees,  fortie  shillings  of 
the  rentes  thereof  to  be  yearlie  delyvered  to  the  Churchewardens  of  litle  Waldingford  in  the  ffeaste 
daie  of  All  Saincts  to  the  vse  of  the  poore.  And  fortie  shillings  to  be  payed  to  the  handes  of 
the  Churchewardens  of  muche  Waldingfeild  to  the  vse  of  the  poore.  And  twentye  shillinges  to  be 
everie  yeare  payd  to  the  Churchewardens  of  Edwardstone  to  the  vse  of  the  poore  people  of  the 
saide  prishe.  And  I  ordaigne  that  whensoeu!  those  nowe  ffeoffees  shall  deceasse,  that  then  by 
the  laboure  and  meanes  of  my  nexte  heire  then  lyvinge  and  of  ffyve,  fower,  three  or  twoe 
of  the  saide  ffeoffees  then  survivinge  a  newe  estate  and  ffeoffamet  shalbe  made  to  more  homiest 
personnes  and  theire  heires  in  ffee.  And  if  my  sayde  nephewe  or  any  of  his  heires  shall  fayle 
or  refuse  to  perfourme  the  premisses  according  to  my  trewe  meaninge,  then  his  estate  in  Hockers 
and  the  landes  appteyning  shall  cease,  and  my  ffeoffees  shall  have  full  power  to  lette  the  same, 
and  the  Reperacions,  Owterents,  Sutes,  Services,  Taxes,  Fiftenes,  Subsidies  and  other  chardges  beinge 
firste  paide,  the  overplusse  of  the  rentes  shalbe  delyvered  vnto  the  handes  of  the  aforesayde 
Churchewardens  of  Edwardston  to  be  by  them  distributed,  withe  the  consente  of  the  person,  vicar 
or  minister  amongeste  the  poore  people  within  the  parrishe.  And  of  this  my  present  testamente  I 
doe  appoincte  Alice  my  welbeloved  wieff  my  trewe  and  onelie  executrix,  and  William  Cloptonne  of 
Groton  Esquier  and  my  sayde  nephewe  Thomas  Appleton  to  be  the  Supvisors.  Probatum  deciino 
die  Novembris  1580  Juramento  procurator^  Alicse  relicte  et  executricis. 


P.C.C.  41  Arundell. 


Mill  of  ®I)omas  Jlpplefott,  1605. 

Tewesday  the  first  daie  of  March,  1603,  XLVto  Reg.  Eliz.  I  Thomas  Apleton  esquier  do 
make  this  my  last  will  and  testament.  First  I  make  Marie  my  wife  my  onlie  executrix  and  I 
do  give  vnto  her  all  my  goodes  and  chattells,  knowinge  that  she  will  have  as  great  a  care  of 
my  children  as  I  have.  I  give  vnto  my  saide  wife  all  my  landes  and  tenemts  excepte  theise  vnder 
specified ;  that  is  to  saie  I  will  that  my  sonne  John  shall  have  the  Mannor  of  Caple  after  the 
death  of  my  wife.  1  give  to  my  daughter  Judeth  aud  her  heires  my  ffarme  in  Glensforde  in 
Suffolk  called  the  Courte  and  the  landes  in  the  occupation  of  Osborne  phtlie  after  my  death 
wthout  anie  delaie.  To  my  sonnes  Thomas  and  Samuell  ech  of  them  one  hundred  poundes  when 
they  shall  come  out  of  theire  apprenticeship.  To  Mr  Robert  Welch  of  Waldingfeild  ten  poundes. 
I  will  that  my  sonne  and  heire  and  his  heires  shall  paie  and  satisfie  to  the  poore  people  inhabitinge 
littell  Waldingfeilde  tenn  loades  of  wood  everie  yeare  and  to  their  successor  for  ever.  This  will 
was  made  by  the  saide  Thomas  Apleton  and  subscribed  by  his  hande,  beinge  before  red  vnto  him 
by  John  Wiucoll  in  phce  of  Thomas  Colman,  Anne  Coleman  and  John  Woolnowe.  Probatum  decimo 
Sexto  die  Maij  1603  Juramenti  Marie  Apleton  relce  dci  def  et  executric. 


P.C.C.  32  Bolein. 


326 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  of  J&r  Ssaa t  Jljjpktmt,  1608. 

This  eigth  day  of  September,  1608,  I  Isaack  Appleton  of  Little  Waldingfeild  in  the  countie 
of  Suffolke,  Knight,  being  now  sick  in  body  yet  sound  in  mynde,  doe  ordayne  and  make  this 
my  testament  conteyning  therein  my  last  will.  As  touching  my  soule,  I  bequeath  it  into  the 
handes  of  Allmighty  God  my  sole  redeemer  and  SavioL  As  concerning  my  body,  I  desire  it  may 
be  buryed  among  my  Auncesters  in  the  Church  of  litle  Waldingfeild  vntil  the  resurrection  of  all 
flesh.  I  will  vnto  my  deare  and  loving  mother,  Mns  Mary  Appleton,  my  messuage  called 
Willinghame  in  Glennsford  as  lately  purchased  by  my  late  ffather.  Moreover  I  doe  give  her 
duringe  her  naturall  life  all  the  rest  of  my  lands  in  Sufi  oik  (such  lands  excepted  as  are  already  assured 
vnto  my  loving  wief  Mary  Appleton  for  her  ioyncture)  for  the  bringing  up  of  my  fower  children. 
Nevertheles  if  my  loving  wief  Mary  Appleton  shall  desire  to  have  the  education  of  my  sayd 
children  as  mother  vnto  them,  then  my  mother  shall  allow  vnto  her  towards  the  bringing  vp  of 
my  eldest  sonne,  if  he  be  not  taken  warde,  twenty  pounds  by  the  yeare,  and  for  ech  one  of  the 
other  children  twenty  markes  by  the  yeare.  I  give  vnto  my  yonger  sonne  John  Appleton  my 
Capitall  messuage  in  Glennsford  and  three  other  tenements  after  the  deceasse  of  my  sayd  mother. 
I  doe  give  my  coppihould  landes  in  Glennsford,  after  the  decease  of  my  sayd  mother,  vnto  my 
two  daughters  Mary  and  Dorothy  equally.  Yf  my  mother  shall  happen  to  depart  this  world  before 
my  eldest  sonne  shall  come  to  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares,  then  I  do  give  the  rents  of 
those  landes  vnto  my  loving  brother  in  law  John  Cage  Esquior  in  consideration  of  the  mayutennce 
of  all  my  sayd  children  vntill  my  sonne  Isaac  shall  come  to  the  age  of  one  and  twenty  yeares. 

I  bequeath,  so  much  as  in  me  lyeth,  vnto  my  loving  brother  John  Appleton  all  my  right  which  I 

have,  or  might  have,  in  that  Mannor  of  Capell  which  my  late  ffather  devised  vnto  him,  commonly 
called  Chartford  Hall.  Vnto  Isaack  Appleton  my  sonne  my  fower  Tenements  in  the  Churchyard 
of  litle  Waldingfeild  (ei’ected  and  applied  by  my  late  father  to  charitable  vses)  with  earnest  charge 

as  he  will  answere  before  God  to  contynue  the  same,  by  placing  in  them  from  time  to  tyme  poore 

men  or  wydowes.  I  appoynt  six  loades  of  wood  yearely  to  be  distributed  among  those  fower 
houses.  I  give  vnto  my  sayd  wief  Mary  Appleton  all  my  plate,  except  that  which  hath  bene 
formerly  given  vnto  my  children,  and  one  long  sylver  bowle  which  I  give  vnto  my  mother.  Vnto 
the  poore  people  of  litle  Waldingfelde  five  poundes.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  I  doe  give  vnto  my 
mother  whom  I  ordayne  sole  executrix.  Witnesses  Robert  Ryece  ;  Thomas  Lovell  ;  Richard  Hall. 
Probatum  duodecimo  die  Julij  1609  juramento  Marie  Appleton  matris  et  executricis. 

P.C.C.  70  Dorset. 


Mill  ot  Jftarj  Appleton,  1612. 

Memorandum  that  Mary  Apleton  of  the  parish  of  Saincto  Bridgets  in  the  Cittie  of  Loudon, 
widdowe,  late  wife  of  Thomas  Appleton  late  of  little  Waldingfeilde  in  the  county  of  Suff.  esq^  deceased, 
about  the  eightenth  of  ffebruarie  1612,  beinge  moved  to  make  her  will  in  the  tyme  of  the  sicknes 
whereof  she  died,  she  saide  she  would  giue  all  to  her  sonne  Samewell  Appleton,  savinge  two  gowns 
and  other  apparell  to  her  two  daughters  ;  there  being  pi^sente  Mrs  Lewes  and  Elizabeth  Cheape 
with  others. 

Vndecimo  die  mensis  Junij  1613  emanauit  comisio  Samueli  Appleton  filio  diet!  defuncte  ad 
administrand  bona  iura  et  credita  dicti  defuncti  iuxta  tenorem  testamenti  nuncupavi  predicte 
defuncti-  P.C.C.  62  Capell. 


APPLETON  OF  WALDINGFIELD. 


327 


SSttll  of  |oIjn  Appleton,  1622* 

John  Appleton  of  Chilton  in  the  countie  of  Suffolke,  gent.,  the  eight  day  of  Januarie  1622, 
trusting  and  most  stedfastly  beleeving  to  bee  saued  in  the  day  of  the  generall  resurrection  and 
Judgement  by  the  onelie  merritts  and  passion  of  my  Lord  and  Savyour  Jesus  Christ.  Whereas 
Sr  Robert  Crane  of  Chilton,  Knight,  by  penall  obligation  bearing  date  the  sixt  day  of  this  present 
Januarie  standeth  bound  vnto  Abraham  Gibson  of  Kedington,  clearke,  for  the  payment  of  the 
yearly  some  of  thirty  pounds  vnto  mee  and  Frances  my  wife  during  our  naturall  lives.  My  will 
is  that  the  same  annuity  be  paid  unto  my  said  wife  after  my  decease  ;  and  for  non  payment 
I  give  vnto  the  said  Frances  my  Mannor  of  Churehfoord  Hall  als  Chatford  hall  in  Capell  and 
Wenham  for  her  naturall  life,  and  after  her  decease  I  giue  the  same  vnto  Robert  Appleton  my 

eldest  sonne.  Vnto  the  said  Robert  my  tenement  or  ffearme  lands  in  Capell.  I  giue  vnto  John 

my  sonne  that  messuage  copihold  of  Sr  Robert  Cranes  Mannor  of  Carbonells  cum  Chilton.  My  wife 
shall  educate  and  bring  vp  the  said  children.  If  it  shall  happen  the  said  Robert  and  John  my 
sonnes  and  the  child  which  my  wife  is  now  great  withall  to  depte  this  life  without  issue  of  their 
bodies  my  will  is  that  the  said  Mannor,  ffearme  lands  and  tenements  shall  goe,  remayne  and  bee 
vnto  Samuell  Appleton  my  brother,  his  heires  and  assignes  for  ever.  I  doe  hereby  giue  vnto  the 
said  Frances  my  wife  the  Rectorie  of  Capell  appendant  vnto  my  aforesaid  Mannor,  and  after  the  full 
age  of  the  same  Robert  my  sonne  he  shall  haue  the  same  Advowsion.  I  giue  vnto  my  wife  all 
my  money,  plate,  goods  &c.  after  paying  my  debts  &c.  I  nominate  my  loving  and  assured  ffriend 
Sr  Robert  Crane,  Knight,  and  my  loving  cousin  John  Gurdon  the  younger  esquier  to  be  ye 
executors.  Read,  subscribed,  sealed  and  published  in  the  presence  of  John  Winthrop,  Abraham 
Gibson,  Wm  Jirmyn.  Probatum  decimo  septimo  die  Maij  1631  Juramento  Dm  Roberti  Crane, 

militis,  unius  executorum.  Deinde  sexto  die  Septembris  1631  Juramento  Johis  Gurdon. 

P.C.C.  47  St.  John. 


aitit  Jtpjikton,  jfine,  1655. 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Regis  apud  Westrn  in  Crastino  Purificacois  be  Marie 
Anno  regno^  Caroli  Angl  &c.  Regis  decimo,  Int9  Ricm  Gildersleve  &  Jokem  Boreham  quer  et 
Samuelem  Appleton  geSosum  &  Juditham  vxem  eius,  Thomam  Gostlyn  A  Jauam  vxem  eius  & 
Stephum  Keable  &  Mariam  vxeih  eius  deforc  de  duob^  mesuagijs,  duobjj  gardinis,  duob^  pomarijs, 
vndecim  acris  tre,  trib^  acris  prati  &  decern  &  octo  acris  pasture  cum  ptm  in  Groton  &  Combs. 
Fdci  Samuel  &  Juditha,  Thomas  &  Jana  &  Stephns  &  Maria  recogh  $dict  ten  esse  ius  ipius  Rici  & 
Johis.  Et  ijdem  Ricus  &  Johes  deder  j^dcis  Samueli  &  Judithe,  Thome  &  Jane  &  Stepho  &,  Marie 
sexaginta  libr  sterlingoa.  Suff.  Fine,  Suffolc.,  Hill,  10  Car. 

By  a  similar  Fine  in  Easter  Term,  11  Chas.  I,  Samuel  Appleton  and  Judith,  his  wife,  and 
Richard  Turner  and  Johanna,  his  wife,  sold  a  messuage  and  seventy  acres  in  Milden  and  Monks 
Elleigh  to  William  I’arwick,  clerk,  and  Daniel  Cage. 


328 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


SStill  of  ^orotlig  (Krabock,  1666* 

I  Dorothy  Cradocke  of  Covent  Garden  in  the  county  of  Middx.,  widdowe,  being  of  great  age 
and  very  weake,  doe  make  this  my  last  will.  I  comend  my  soule  to  Almighty  God,  hopeing  that 
after  this  paineful  life  ended  I  shall  liue  and  raigne  with  him  in  glory.  Vpon  the  death  of 
my  brother  Isaac  Appleton  Esquire,  the  third  parte  of  the  capitall  messuage  called  Bucknam  House 
in  the  countye  of  Norfolke  (amongst  other  lands  which  I  haue  disposed  of)  discended  vnto  mee  as 
one  of  his  thi-ee  sisters  and  coheirs.  My  executors  shall  sell  the  same  and  I  doe  charge  my 
brother  in  law  John  Butler  Esquire  and  Ambrose  Butler  gent.,  of  the  Inner  Temple  London,  and 
my  sonne  Robert  Cradocke  Cittizen  and  Vintner  of  London,  to  doe  all  lawful  and  reasonable 
things  in  order  to  this  sale.  I  and  my  brother  Fairbeard  and  his  wife  did  agree  with  Mr  Marriott 
for  the  sale  of  each  of  our  third  parts  but  there  were  differences  touching  the  same.  My 
executors  shall  put  out  two  hundred  pounds  for  the  vse  of  my  two  grandchildren,  daughters  of 
Dorothy  Goodbody  deceased,  and  I  do  dispose  of  two  hundred  pounds  unto  my  daughter  Anne 
Garway.  My  sonne  in  lawe  John  Garway  is  bound  for  my  sonne  Robert  Cradocke.  I  doe  make 
my  loveing  freinds  John  Garway  of  London  Vintner  and  Baron  Turner  of  London  Goldsmith, 
Executors.  All  other  my  estate  I  give  vnto  my  sone  Robert  Craddock.  Probatum  7  Martij  1667 
Juramentis  executorum.  P.C.C.  35  Carr. 


Snscriptioits  in  feat  Malbhtgfielb  (Eljurrlj. 

....  Iohn  Appulton  of  Waldingfeild  Magna  .  .  .  .  ob.  anno  14  of  Hen.  4,  1416.  Three 

Aples  gules  leaues  and  stalkes  vert. 

Orate  pro  animabus  Iohannis  Appulton  et  Margarete  vxoris  eius,  qui  quidem  Iohannes 
obijt  9  die  Aprilis,  Anno  Domini  1481,  et  predicta  Margareta  obijt  4  die  Julij  Anno  Dom.  1468 
quorum  .... 

Orate  pro  anima  Thome  Appulton  de  Waldingfeild  Magna,  qui  Thomas  ab  hac  luce  migrauit 
4  die  Octob.  ann.  Dom.  1507. 

Orate  pro  anima  Margerie  Appulton  que  obijt  4  die  Nouemb.  anno  Dom.  1504.  Cuius 

anime  propitietur  altissimus.  Amen. 

Orate  pro  animabus  Roberti  Appulton  generosi  et  Marie  vxoris  eius,  qui  quidem  Robertus 
obijt  27  Augusti  1526.  Quorum  ....  Amen. 

Weever’s  “  Funeral  Monuments,”  p.  759. 

The  brief  but  authentic  pedigree  of  Appleton  of  Waldingfield,  taken  by  Cooke,  Clareucieux, 
at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  in  1577,  begins  with  the  marriage  of  William  Appleton  with  Rose  Sexton. 

But  Harl.  MSS.  1560  and  1196  add,  upon  what  authority  we  know  not,  a  number  of  earlier 

descents.  John  Appleton  of  Waldingfield  Magna,  1416,  they  say,  had  issue  John  Appleton  of 
Waldingfield  Magna,  1459,  and  he  in  his  turn  had  two  sons,  Thomas,  who  died  in  1467,  and 
John,  who  died  in  1483 — the  latter  being  father,  by  Margaret  his  wife,  of  Thomas  Appleton,  who 
married  Margaret  Crane.  These  MSS.,  helpful  as  they  are,  abound  with  statements  which  are  not 
supported  by  evidences.  Together  with  the  Appleton  genealogies  compiled  by  Candler  and  Blois  in 
the  time  of  the  Usurpation,  they  form  the  basis  of  the  pedigree  which  appears  on  the  next  page. 


APPLETON  OF  WALDINGFIKLD. 


329 


Appleton  of  TOaltitngfid!). 

John  Appleton  of  Waldingfield  Parva  (third  in  descent  from  John  Appleton  of  Waldingfield=f=Margaret,  dau.  of  Richard 
Magna,  who  d.  14  H.  4),  d.  9  April  1481.  See  Appleton  pedigree,  Hart.  MS.  1196,  on  p.  335.  |  Welling,  died  1468. 


Thomas  Appleton  of  Waldingfield  Parva,  co. Suffolk/ 
1485.  Will,  P.C.C.  11  Bennett,  20  Jan.  1504, 
proved  9  Feb.  1508.  Inq.  p.m.  23  H.  7.  Manors 
of  Holbrooks  and  Bramston  Hall  in  Waldingfield. 
&e.  M.I.  in  Waldingfield  Church.  Weever. 


ATargerie,  dau.  of  Robert  Crane  of  Stonham,  co. 
Suffolk,  Esq.,  sister  to  Robert  Crane,  who 
mar.  Anne  Ogard,  and  to  Elizabeth  Crane, 
Abbess  of  Bruisyard.  M.I.  in  Gt.  Waldingfield 
Church.  She  d.  4  Nov.  1504. 


Margaret,  first  wife  of  Thomas  Spring 
of  Lavenham,  who  made  will,  P.C.C. 
1523,  and  mother  of  Sir  John  Spring  ; 
sister  and  executor  of  Thomas  Apple- 
ton.  1508. 


Robert  Appleton=fMary,  da.  and  coll. “Roger  Martin  of 


of  Waldingfieli 
son  &  heir,  aged 
30  in  1508.  M.I. 
Little  Waldiug- 
fieldChureh.  Ob. 
27  Aug.  1526. 


of  Thomas  Mount- 
ney  of  Yngrnon- 
teney,  co.  Essex  ; 
sister  of  Elizabeth 
Mountuey,  who  m. 
Thomas  Sexton. 


Melford,  Esq., 
2d  husband, who 
willed,  P.C.C. 
1535,  to  be  bur¬ 
ied  beside  her  in 
Melford  Church. 


William  Appleton, "=Eliza- 
Citizen  and  Draper  beth, 
of  London.  Will, 

P.C.C.  21  Fetiplace, 

20  July  1512,  proved 
30  April  1513  ;  lands 
in  Kersey, Gro  ton, &c. 


living 

July 

1512. 


Richard  Appleton, 
Gent.  ;  joined  his 
brother  William  in 
sale  of  divers  Suf¬ 
folk  lands  to 
Thomas  Spring. 
Close  Rolls ,  4  H.  8. 


- - 1  i - 

Thomas  Appleton, 
Parson  of  Laven¬ 
ham.  1504. 

Gilbert  Appleton, 
living  1505. 


Dame  Anne 
Appleton,  a 
nun,  1504, 
living  1512. 


William  Appleton  of  Waldingfield=j=Rose,  dau.  and  ulti-= 


Parva,  Esq.,  underage,  1512.  Will. 
Arch.  Sudb.,  20  Sept.  1538,  proved 
2  May  1539.  Inq.  p.m.  33  H.  8. 
Died  24  Aug.  28  H.  8.  Lord  of  Hol¬ 
brook's  and  Bramston  Hall  Mauors 
in  Waldingfield. 


mately  coheiress  of 
Robert  Sexton  of 
Lavenham,  by  Agnes, 
sister  of  Sir  Thomas 
Jermyu  of  Rushbrook. 
See  Sexton.  sy. 


:Robert  Gurdon  Edward  Appleton=Alice,  dau.  of- 
of  Assington,  of  Edwardstone,  Firmyn  Roke- 
co. Suffolk,  Esq.,  co.  Suffolk,  Gent,  wood  of  Euston, 

2d  husbd.  Will,  Will,  P.C.C.  41  co.  Suffolk, 

P.C.C. 19  Bakou,  Arundell,  31  Aug.,  Gent.  Statement 

1578.  See  Gun-  proved  10  Nov.  of  Isaac  Preston, 

1580.  Ob.  s.p.  Esq. 


^Edmund  Walde- 
grave  of  Hitcham, 
co.  Suffolk,  Gent., 
2d  husband.  Mar. 
lie.,  Arch..  Sudb., 
dated  Nov.  1581. 


Frances,  mar.  1566  William  Littlebury 
of  Dedham,  Essex,  who  made  will, 
P.C.C.  52  Pyekering,  20  July  1571, 
naming  Thomas  Appleton,  his  late 
wife’s  brother.  She  ob.  s.p. 


Thomas  Appleton  of  Wald  in  gfield=j=M  ary,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Edward  Isaacke  of  Well  Court,  co. 


Parva,  Esq.,  aged  5  years,  33  H.  8. 
Will,  P.C.C.  32  Bolein,  1  March 
1603,  proved  16  May  following. 
“  Dyed  in  London.”  Candler. 


Mary.ux.  Robert  Ryece 
of  Preston  in  Suff., 
Gent.,  who  made  will, 
P.C.C.36  Harvye  7  Feb. 
1637,  naming  John  and 
Samuel  Appleton,  his 
brothers  in-law.  He 
died  s.p. 


Laurence  Butler  of= 
Great  Gransdou,  com. 
Hunt., Gent.,  2d  husbd. 
A  codicil,  P.C  C.  104 
Russell,  28  May  1628  ; 
prob.  14  Nov.  1633,  to 
Isaac  Appleton,  Esq., 

“  my  late  wife's  son.” 


Judith,  ux.  Lewes  Bay- 
ley,  Bishop  of  Bangor, 
her  2d  husband.  She 
m.  1st  .  .  .  Allen,  a 
minister  ( Blois )  and 
seems  to  have  had 
grandson  Zoucli  Allen, 
devisee  1637  of  Robert 
Ryece. 


Sara,  bapt.  at  Little 
Waldingfield,  1580  ; 
mar.  Edward  Bird  of 
Walden,  a  Surveyor. 
Blois.  She  m.  2d  Henry 
Smyth,  Doctor  of 
Divinity  and  Master  of 
Magdalen  College  in 
Cambridge. 


Kent.,  Esq.,  by  Margery,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Sir  Richard 
Wheathill  of  Calice.  She  made  will,  P.C.C.  62  Capell, 
18  Feb.  1612.  Her  father’s  will,  P.C.C.  19  Peter,  is  dated 
29  April,  14th  Elizabeth,  1572. 


3.  Thomas  Apple- 
ton,  3d  son  ;  ob. 
s.p.  ;  of  London. 
Blois.  Was  living 
in  1603,  and  is 
named  in  his 
father’s  will.  Bapt. 
at  Little  Walding¬ 
field,  1585. 


4.  Samuel  Appleton,  Gent.=j= Judith 
4  th  son  ;  bapt.  at  Little  Everard. 
Waldingfield,  1586.  Of  Blois. 
Ipswich  in  New  England, 

1637,  when  Robert  Ryece, 
his  brother-in-law,  made 
his  will.  Sold  his  Suffolk 
lands,  10  and  11  Chas.  I. 

Appleton  of  New  England. 


:Mary,  the  unfortunate  daugh-=j=l.  Sir Isaack  Appleton  of  Wal¬ 


ter  of  Anthony  Cage  of  Long 
stow,  co.  Cambridge,  Esq. 
Harl.  MS.  1560.  Sister  of  Sir 
JohnCage.  “Mary,  Lady  Apple- 
ton,  and  wife  to  Mr.  Lawrence 
Butler,  was  buried  at  Walding¬ 
field  Parva,  14  June  1615.” 


dingfieldjKnt.  Will,  P.C.C. 
70  Dorsett,  8  Sept.  1608  ; 
"prob.  12  July  1609.  He 
names  “  my  loving  wife, 
Mary  Appleton,”  aud  ap¬ 
points  his  mother  executor. 
Inq.  p.m.  11  Jas.  I. 


1st 

wife, 

Blois 


-2.  John  Appleton,  Gent.,: 
2d  son.  Will,  P.C.C.  47 
St.  John,  8  Jan.  1622;  was 
then  of  Chilton,  co.  Suff. ; 
prob.  17  May  1631.  Ob. 
29  May  6  Car.  Inq  p.m. 
9  Car.  Manor  of  Chat- 
ford  Hall  in  Capell. 


John  Appleton,  Dorothy,  sister  and  coheir  to  Isaac 
2d  son, evidently  Appleton,  ux.  .  .  .  Cradock  of 
dead  s.p.  inl666.  London.  She  made  will,  P.C.C. 

Buried  at  Little  35  Carr,  2  Dec.  1666.  Her  children 
Waldingfield,  were  Robert  Cradock,  Citizen  aud 
1640.  Davy.  Vintner  of  London,  Dorothy,  m. 

to  .  .  .  Goodbody,  and  Anne,  the 
wife  of  John  Gar  way. 

i - 1 

of=pDame  Susan, relict=Isaac  Appleton  of 
of  SirRobertCrane,  Waldingfield,  Esq. 
Bart ,  and  dau.  of 
Sir  Giles  Allingtou 
of  Horsheath.  She 
made  will,  Arch. 

Sudb.,  18  Aug. 

1676.  She  names 
her  grandson, 


Mary,  ux.  Robert  Fair- 
beard  of  London,  coheir 
to  her  brother  Isaac 
Appleton.  Deviseel630 
of  her  uncle,  Anthony 
Cage  of  Burrough 
Green,  co.Camb., Clerk, 
P.C.C.  14  St.  John. 


Sir  Robert  Crane 
Chilton,  co  Suff, 
Bart.,  1st  husband. 
He  made  will, 
P.C.C.  10  Crane, 
13  Feb.  1642;  prob. 
23  Feb.  same  year. 
Dame  Susan,  his 
relict,  desired  to  be 
buried  beside  him 
in  Chilton  Church, 
anno  1676. 


Horace  Walnole 


On  his  death,  we 
learn  from  the 
will  of  Dorothy 
Cradock  his  sister, 
Bucknam  House 
and  lands  in  Nor¬ 
folk,  went  to  his 
three  sisters  and 
coheirs,  as  he  died 
s.p. 


Martha, 
of  Mr  Thomas 
Moore  of  St  Ger- 
maynes  nigh  Lynne 
A-  Martha  his  wife, 
daughter  of  Wm 
Jackson.  Harl.M.S. 
6071.  M.I.  inWig- 
ginhall  chancel. 
She  ob.  1653.  For 
her  father’s  will, 
see  p.  336. 


- 1 

Frances,  ux.  Jacob 
Preston  of  Norff. 
Blois.  She  died  1673. 
Her  son,  Sir  Isaac 
Preston  of  Beestou, 
co.  Norfolk,  bapt.  at 
Waldingfield  Parva, 
1640,  died  in  1708. 
r~ 


married 
to  Capt 
Gifford. 
Bari.  MS. 
6071,  &c. 


=FrancesCrane,2d\vife 
Blois.  She  is  named 
in  her  husband’s  will, 
and  in  the  Appleton 
pedigree  at  the  Suf¬ 
folk  Visitation,  1664. 
Sir  Robert  Crane  was 
one  of  her  trustees. 


daughter^ j=Robert  App!e-=j- 
ton,  Esq  ,  of 
Pres  ton, co.Suff., 
anno  1664.  En¬ 
tered  pedigree 
in  the  Suffolk 
Visitation  of 
that  year.  Was 
14  years  old,  6 
('ar.,  when  liis 
father  died. 


:Bridget.  dau.= 
and  heir  of 
William  Bull, 
clerk,  and  re¬ 
lict  of  John 
Alabaster  of 
Hadleigh,  co. 
Suffolk. 


John  Appleton,  2d 
son.  His  uncle, 
Robert  Ryece,  left 
him  lands  in  Ket- 
tlebaston,  the 
abode  of  quite 
another  family  of 
Appleton,  1637. 

=Jolin  Alabaster, 
son  aud  heir  of 
John  Alabaster, 
who  made  will, 
P.C.C.  355  Pell, 
5  Nov.  1655;  prob. 
17  June  1659  to 
Bridget  A  ppleton 
alias  Alabaster, 
wife  of  Robert 
Appleton,  Esq. 


Martha,  eldest  daughter,  heir  to  her  mother  and  her  grandfather  Moore,  mar-  Isaac  Apple- 
ried  Maurice  Shelton  of  Barningham,  co.  Norfolk,  Esq.  Shelton  c.  Putricke,  ton,  son  and 
Whittington  I,  498, 1673.  Her  will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  1  Oct.  1681,  was  proved  1688.  heir,  1664. 


1 — r 


Bridget, 
and  Anne 
Appleton. 


Sibala  Alabaster,  sole  da  aud  heir 
ux.  George  Hunlope  of  Hadleigh 
co.  Suff.,  Gent.  See  Alabaster. 

2  T 


330 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


Appleton  of  Jieto  tifttglanb. 


Judith  Everard,  mar.=j=Samuel  Appleton,  4th  sou  of  Thomas  Appleton  of  Little  Walding-=j=Martha, 
at  Preston,  co.  Suff.,  field,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.  ;  bapt.  there  1586  ;  emigrated  to  New  second 
1616.  England,  1635  ;  died  at  Rowley,  Massachusetts,  1670.  wife. 


Mary,  bapt.  at 
Little  Walding- 
field,  1616. 

Judith,  bapt.  at 
Little  Walding- 
field,  1618  ;  d. 
at  Reydon,  Suf¬ 
folk,  1629. 


i — r 


Martha,  bapt.  at  Little 
Waldingfield,  1620  ;  m. 
Richd.  Jacob  of  Ipswich, 
New  England. 

Sarah,  bapt.  at  Reydon, 
Suffolk,  1629  ;  m.  ltev. 
Samuel  Phillips  of  Row- 
ley,  New  England. 


John  Appleton,  bapt.= 
at  Little  Walding¬ 
field,  1622.  Captain 
oflpswichTroop  New 
England  ;  Deputy  to 
Gen.  Court,  1656-78; 
J.P.  ;  died  at  Ips¬ 
wich,  New  England, 
1699. 


I 


:Priscilla,  dau.  Samuel  Appleton,  bapt.  at  Little  Wal- 
of  the  Rev.  dingfield,  1625;  mar.  1st  Hannah  Paine, 
Jose  Glover;  1651;  2d,  Mary  Oliver,  1656  ;  Major 
mar.  1651  i  and  Com.-iu-Chief  in  Indian  War; 
died  1698.  Assistant  and  Councillor  ;  arrested  and 

imprisoned  by  Andros,  1687-88  ;  died 
at  Ipswich,  N.  E.,  1696.  =i= 

vU 

See  Pedigree  A. 


Judith, bap. 
at  Reydon, 
Suffolk, 
1634  ;  mar. 
Sam  Rogers 
of  Ipswich, 
New  Eng¬ 
land. 


John  Appleton,  b.  at 
Ipswich,  N.E.,  1652; 
Colonel,  Councillor  ; 
Chief  Justice,  Court 
of  Com.  Pleas  ;  died 
1739. 


^Elizabeth,  Elizabeth,  b. 
da.  of  John  at  Ipswich, 
Rogers  of  1654.  mar. 
Ipswich;  m.  Richard  Dum 


Samuel  Appleton,  b.: 
at  Ipswich,  N.E., 
eirca  1656;  diedl693; 
had  four  children, 
1680  ;  died  mer  of  New-  but  no  descendants 
bury. 


1754. 


in  male  line. 


-Mary,  dau. 
of  Rev.  John 
Wood  bridge 
of  New¬ 
bury  ;  died 
1712. 


- 1  I - 

Josfc,  b.  and  d. 
1660. 

Jose,  b.  at  Ipswich, 
1662  ;  d.  at  Bos¬ 
ton,  1721,  unm. 


TT 


Sarah,  b.  at  Ipswich,  N.E.,  1671 ; 
mar.  Daniel  Rogers  of  Ipswich. 

Mary,  b.  at  Ipswich,  1673  ;  mar. 
Nathaniel  Thomas  of  Marsh¬ 
field. 


.  i - rn — n — 

Elizabeth,  b.  at  John, 
Ipswich,  1682  ;  William, 
mar.  Rev.  Jabez  Daniel, 
Fitch  of  Ports-  andjohn, 
mouth,  N.E.  all  died 
young. 


- r - “i - ; — t- 

Dauiel  Appleton,  b.  at  Ipswich,  Rev.  Nathaniel  Appleton, =j=Margaret,  da.  Priscilla,  b. 


1692;  J.P.,  Deputy  and  Colonel;  D.D.,  b.  at  Ipswich,  N.E., 
mar.  1715,  Elizabeth,  da.  of  1693;  A. B.,  Harvard  Coll., 
Thos.  Berry  (who  d.  1773),  and  1712  ;  Fellow  of  Harvard; 
d.  1762.  Several  children,  but  died  at  Cambridge,  N.E, 
only  one  daughter  married.  1784. 


of  ltev.  Henry  at  Ipswich  ; 
Gibbs  of  1697  ;  mar. 
Watertown  ;  Rev.  Robert 
mar.  1719  ;  d.  Ward  of 
1771.  Wenham. 


Margaret,  b.  at 
Ipswich,  1701; 
mar.  Rev.  Edw. 
Holyoke,  Presi¬ 
dent  of  Harvard 
College,  N.E. 


Margaret,  b.atCamb., 
N.E.,  1720  ;  m.  Rev. 
Joshua  Prentise  of 
Holliston. 


th  i  i  i  r* 

Jose,  Nathaniel, 
John,  Mercy, 
Mercy  &Samuel, 
all  died  young. 


Elizabeth,  b.  at 
Camb.,  N.E., 
1726  ;  mar.  Isaac 
Rand. 


Mehitable,  b.  at  Cam¬ 
bridge,  N.E.,  1728  ;  m. 
Rev,  Samuel  Haven  of 
Portsmouth,  N.E. 


Henry  Appleton,  b.  at  Cambridge,  N.E.,  1737, 
of  Portsmouth,  N.E.  ;  m.  and  had  issue,  but 
no  descendants  in  the  male  line  ;  A.B., 

Harvard,  1755. 


Mary,  dau.: 
of  Isaac 
Walker,  m. 
1754  ;  d. 
1755.  1st 
wife. 


Nathaniel  Appleton,  born  at=f=Rachel,  dau.  of  John  Jane.  dau.  of  Rev.=j=John  Appleton,  b.  at  Cam-=fPriscilla,  dau.  of 


Cambridge,  N.E.,  1731  ;  d. 
at  Boston,  N.E.,  1798  ;  A.B., 
Harvard,  1749  ;  J.P.  ;  Fellow, 
Amer.  Academy. 


John  Appleton, 
married,  but  no 
cliildren. 


Mary 

mar. 

Samuel 

Emery. 


Henderson,  m.  1756; 
d,  1804.  2d  wife. 


John  Sparhawk,  m. 
1767  ;  d.  3  790.  1st 
wife. 


George  & 
Henry, d. 
young. 


- 1 

Thomas, 
married, 
but  no 
son. 


ri - 

Henry  & 
Jane,  d. 
unmar¬ 
ried. 


Margaret 

married 

Willard 

Peele, 


bridge,  N.E.,  1739  ;  d.  at 
Salem,  1817;  A. B., Harvard, 
1757. 


- 1 — rm 

John,  William,  Catharine, 
Charles  and  Daniel,  all 
d.  young. 


Wm.  Greenleaf, 
m.  1794  ;  d.  1826. 
2d  wife. 


Alfred  Greenleaf 
Appleton,  d.  un¬ 
married. 


Nathaniel  Walker  Apple-1 
ton,  of  Boston,  born  1755; 
A.B.,  Harvard,  1773;  a 
physician  ;  Fellow  Amer. 
Acad.  ;  mar.  1780  ;  died 
1795. 


=Sarah,  dau.  of 
Wm.  Green¬ 
leaf,  mar.  2dly 
Joseph  Haven 
and  d.  1838. 


Charlotte, 
m.  Thomas 
Perkins  of 
Boston. 


Elizabeth, 
m.  Thomas 
Lane  of 
London. 


George  Washing¬ 
ton  Appleton  of 
Boston,  probably 
died  unm. 


John  Sparhawk= 
Appleton  of  Salem, 
b.  1775  ;  d.  1824; 
A.B.,  Harvard, 
1792  ;  Publisher 
and  Antiquary. 


Mary,  da. 
of  Peter 
Lander, 
m. 1807  ; 
d.  1838. 


Nathaniel  Apple- 
ton  of  Salem,  mar. 
but  no  descen¬ 
dants  in  the  male 
line. 


Charles  Hender-  Sarah, 
son  Appleton,  George  and 
b.  1784  ;  mar.  Sarah,  died 
and  had  issue.  young. 


S  arahTil  — |-N athan  iel  Walker=j=M  ary 
den,  mar. 

1806.  1st 
wife. 


William  Green-  JohuAppleton,M.D.,: 


Appleton,  of  Bos¬ 

fin  Green, 
mar.  1821. 

mar.  John 

leaf  Appleton, b. 

of  Cambridge,  b.  at 

ton,  b.  1783  ;  d. 

Welsh 

1794  ;  mar.  and 

Salem,  1809  ;  mar. 

1848. 

2d  wife. 

Foster. 

had  issue. 

and  had  issue. 

- n 

Mary 
Lander  & 
Peter 
Lander, 
d.  young. 


Nathaniel  Green¬ 
leaf  and  Emily 
Ellsworth,  died 
young. 


Charles  Tilden 
Appleton,  born 
1809  ;  mar.  and 
had  only  daus. 


— 71  .  - 

William  Chan- 

ning  Appleton, 
b.  1812;  mar. 
but  s.p. 


Francis  Parker  Appleton 
of  Boston,  present  head 
of  the  family  ;  b.  1822  ; 
mar.  and  has  issue. 


- n - 

Emily  Ellsworth 
Appleton,  died 
unmarried. 


George  Herman 
Appleton,  b. 
1831  ;  mar.  and 
has  issue. 


APPLETON  OF  WALDINGFIELD. 


331 


PEDIGEEE  A. 

Appleton  of  JBieU)  €nglant>. 

Hannah,  dau.  of  William=j=Samuel  Appleton,  jTounger  son  of  Samuel  Appleton,  =pMary,  dau.  of  John  Oliver, 


Paine  of  Ipswich  in  New 
England;  mar.  1651.  1st 
wife. 


the  Emigrant;  bapt.  at  Little  Waldingfield,  1625  ; 
Major  and  Commander-in-chief,  1675  ;  Assistant  and 
Councillor  ;  died  at  Ipswich,  New  England,  1696. 


Hannah,  b.  at 
Ipswich,  N.E., 
1 652  ;  mar.  Wil¬ 
liam  Downes  of 
Boston. 


Judith,  b  at 
Ipswich,  1653  ; 
mar.  Samuel 
Wolcott  of 
Wethersfield. 


Samuel  Appleton, = 
b.  at  Ipswich, 
1654  ;  mar.  1682  ; 
Colonel  ;  Coun¬ 
cillor  ;  died  1725. 


=Elizabeth.  dau.  of 
Wm.  Whittingliam. 
She  mar.  2d  Rev. 
Edward  Payson  of 
Rowley,  N.E. 


J  ohn  .mar.  twice, 
but  no  descen¬ 
dants  in  male 
line. 


of  Newbury,  N.E.  ;  mar. 
1656  ;  died  1698.  2nd  wife. 


1 

Joanna, 

1  1  J  1  1 

William,  Jos- 

n  # 

Oliver. 

married 

eph,  Oliver, 

See 

Matthew 

Mary,  and 

Pedi- 

Whipple 

Mary,  died 

GREE 

of  Ipswich. 

young. 

B. 

Whittingliam.  Samuel  Appleton, =f=  Anne,  dau.  of  John 


Mary  and 
Elizabeth,  d. 
young. 


b.  at  Ipswich  circa 
1695  ;  mar.  1719  ; 


Gerrish  of  Boston  ; 
mar.  2d  Rev.  Joshua 


d.  iuLondon,  1728.4,GeeofBoston;d.l736. 
Four  childn. ;  no  descendts.  in  male  line. 
See  Williams  of  Pennsylvania. 


Hannah,  b.  1684  ; 
mar.  1st,  Wm.  Clark, 
&  2d,  Josiah  Willard. 

Martha,  mar.  Joseph 
Wise. 


- 1 

Elizabeth,  b. 
1712;  mar.lst 
David  Pay- 
sou,  and  2d 
Nathaniel 
Mighill. 


I - , 

Isaac  Apple- 
ton,  b.  at 
Ipswich,  N.E., 
1664;  d.  1747; 
Major. 


=Priscilla,  dau.  of  Thomas 
Baker  of  Topsfield,  Mass., 
by  Priscilla,  dau.  of  Samuel 
Symonds,  Esq.,  and  Martha 
Reade ;  d-  1731.  See 
Reade  of  Wickford. 


Priscilla,  b.  at 
Ipswich,  1697  ; 
mar.  1st  Thos. 
Burnham, and2d 
Arthur  Abbot. 


- 1 — | - 

Isaac,  b.  1699  ; 
d.  1700, 

Mary,  b.  1701  ; 
mar.  William 
Osgood. 


Isaac  Appleton,  b.= 
at  Ipswich.  1704  ; 
d.  1794  ;  he  mar. 
2d  Hephzibah,  wid. 
of  Jos.  Appleton. 
She  d.  1788. 


Elizabeth,  b.  at 
Ipswich,  1736  ; 
mar.  Samuel  Bart¬ 
lett  of  New  Ips¬ 
wich. 


Thomas  Appleton- 
of  Beverley,  b.  at 
Ipswich,  1741  ;  d. 
1830.  He  mar. 
2dly  Lydia  Dane. 


Susanna  Per¬ 
kins,  1st  wife, 
by  whom 
several  chil- 
xp-dren. 


-Elizabeth,  dau. 
of  Francis  Saw¬ 
yer  of  Wells. 
Maine  ;  d.  1785. 
1st  wife. 


Elizabeth,  b. 
1706  ;  mar. 
Josiah  Fair- 
field  of  Wen- 
ham. 


Martha,  b. 
1708  ;  mar. 
John  White 
of  Haver- 
field. 


Rebecca, 
b.  1710  ; 
mar.  Wil¬ 
liam  Dodge 
of  Ipswich. 


- 1 

Joanna,  b. 
1717  ;  mar. 
Wm.  Story. 


John,  of  Bux¬ 
ton  ,  Maine  ;  b. 
atlpswich,  1742; 
mar. ,  but  ob. 
s.p. 


Isaac  Apple-=j=Mary,  d. 


ton,  b.  at  Ips¬ 
wich,  N.E., 
1731  '.removed 
to  New  Ips¬ 
wich,  N.H., 
mar.  1760  ;  d. 
1806. 


Dorothy, 

married 

David 

Everett. 


of  Joseph 
Adams  of 
Concord, 
d.  1827. 


Francis  Appleton,1 
b.  1733  ;  moved  to 
New  Ipswich  ;  d. 
1816  ;  had  with 
other  issue. 


=Elizabeth  Samuel  Appleton, =7=Mary 


Daniel,  b.  at  Ipswich, 
1745;  mar.  1776.  Eliza¬ 
beth  Adams  (who  d.  1832) 
by  whom  issue  ;  d.  at 
Buxton,  Maine,  1836. 

I 


William, of  Ports¬ 
mouth;  b.  atlps¬ 
wich,  1747  ;  mar. 
but  no  descen¬ 
dants  in  male  line. 


at 


- 1 

Mary,  b 
Ipswich, 

1749  ;  mar. 
Major  Wood¬ 
bury. 


Rev.  Joseph 


Hubbard, 

b.  at 

Ipswich. 

White, 

b.  1751  ;  d.  at  North 

mar.1758; 

1738  ; 

mar.  1769  ; 

died 

Brookrield,  1795  ;  had, 

d.  1815. 

died  1819,  leaving 

1834. 

with  other  issue. 

issue. 

V 

/ 

.  J 

Appleton,=j=Mary  Hook, 
mar.  1777  ; 
d.  1842. 


John  A  ppl eton  ,had  wi  th=pElizabeth 


other  issue,  a  son,  John 
Appleton,  LL.D  ,  Chief 
J ustice,  Supreme  Court 
of  Maine. 


Peabody. 


Jesse  Appleton,  D.D.,=j=Elizabeth, 
b.  1772.  Hisdau.  mar.  dau.  of  the 


Franklin  Pierce,  Presi¬ 
dent  of  the  United 
States. 


Appleton,  Finan-=f=Mary  Ann 
Cutler. 


Hon.  Robert 
Means  of  Ara- 
M/herst,  N.H. 


i — 

William 

cier  and  Philanthropist  ; 
Member  of  Congress  ;  b. 
1786  ;  d.  at  Boston,  1862, 
leaving  issue.  -4/ 


Mary,  mar. 
J  oseph  Bar¬ 
rett,  1809. 


- 1 — | - 

Emma  and 
Ebenezer, 
died  young. 


Emily, mar.  Joseph  Appleton  of  New 
Moses  Jew-  Ipswich,  b.  1764  ;  d. 
ett,  1804  ;  at  Keene,  N.H.,  1791, 
d.  1809.  unmarried. 


Aaron  Appleton  of  Keene, 
N.H.,  mar.  1st  Eunice 
Adams,  2d  Keziah  Bixby; 
left  no  issue. 


Ebenezer^pSarah 


Apple- 
ton,  had 
issue. 


\F 


Paterson, 
m. 1809  ; 
d.  1837. 


Isaac  Apple-=pSarali 
ton  of  Dublin, 

N.H.,  b.  1762; 
mar.  1788. 


r 


Sarah,  mar. 
James  B. 
Todd. 


Samuel  Appleton,  Merchant 
Twitchell,  and  Philanthropist,  b.  1766; 
b.  1768  ;  mar.  Mrs.  Mary  Gore  ; 
d.  1828.  d.  at  Boston,  1853  ;  no 
issue. 


Moses  Appleton, 
M.D.,  of  Waterville, 
Maine  ;  b.  1773  ; 
mar.  Ann  Clark.  1801, 
and  left  issue. 


Maria Theresa=j=Nathan  Appleton,  LL  D.,  &c.,-pHarriot 


Gold.lst  wife, 
b.  1780  ;  d. 
1833. 


b.  1779  ;  twice  member  of 
Congress;  wrote  “  Remarks  on 
Currency  and  Banking,”  1841; 
d.  at  Boston,  1861. 


Emily, mar. 
S.  Ksta- 
brook.1842. 


— I — ; - 

David,  d. 
uum. 


T 


Mary. 


— I 

Isaac,  d. 

young, 

1827. 


Thomas  Gold  Appleton,  author 
of  the  “  Nile  Journal,”  &c.  ;  b. 
1812  ;  d.  unm.,  1884. 


Mary,  mar.  Robert 
James  Mackintosh. 


Sumner,  b. 
1802  ;  mar. 
1839;  d. 
1867. 

- 1 

Harriot 

and 

Nathan. 


J  oseph=p  H  annah 


Appleton 
b.  1791 
d.  1840. 


Kuowl- 
ton. 


Samuel 
Appleton, 
b.  1803  ; 
d.  1830. 


:Emily 

Hay¬ 

ward. 


NE 


- 1 

Harriet  G.,  mar. 
Rev.  Henry  A. 
Kendall  of  Dub¬ 
lin,  N.H. 


I - 

Charles  Sedg¬ 
wick  Appleton, 
b.1815  ;  d.  uum. 
1835. 


Frances  Elizabeth,  mar. 
Henry  Wadsworth  Long¬ 
fellow,  the  Poet,  1843. 
She  died  1861. 


William  Sum¬ 
ner  Appleton, 
married  and 
has  issue. 

2  T2 


A 


332 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


PEDIGREE  B. 

Appleton  of  J£eto  Cnglanti. 


Hannah,  (lau.  of  Wiliam  Paine 
of  Ipswich  in  New  England  ; 
mar.  1651.  1st  wife. 


=Samuel  Appleton,  younger  son  of  Samuel  Appleton,  the  Emigrant, ^Mary,  dau.  of  John  Oliver 


\F 


bapt.  at  Little  Waldingfield,  1625  ;  Major  and  Commander-in-chief, 
-1675  ;  Assistant  and  Councillor ;  d.  at  Ipswich,  New  England,  1696. 


of  Newbury;  mar.  1656  ; 
d.  1698.  2d  wife. 


John,  mar.  Isaac  Appleton,  =pPriseilla,  dau.  of  Thomas  Johanna,  mar.  William, Joseph,  Oliver  Appleton.-pSarah,  dau.  of  Tobi- 


twice,  but  no  b.  at  Ipswich, 
descendants  1664;  d.  1747  ; 
in  male  line.  Major. 


\F 


Baker  of  Topsfield,  Mass.,  Matthew  Whip-  Oliver,  Mary,  b.  at  Ipswich, 

by  Priscilla,  dau.  of  pie  of  Ipswich.  and  Mary,  d.  1677  ;  mar.  1701  ; 

Samuel  Symonds.  young.  d.  1760. 


ttt-i - 

William,  Thomas, 
Lucy  and  Priscilla, 
all  d.  young. 


Sarah,  b.  1709  ;  mar.  1st  Ben¬ 
jamin  Swain,  and  2d  Benjamin 
Wvman. 


Hannah,  b.  1711 
Thomas  Swain. 


Mary,  mar. 
Whipple. 


Nathaniel 


jah  Perkins  of  Tops- 
field,  Mass.  ;  d.  1769. 


Daniel,  b.  1720;  d. 
1807;  unmarried. 


Ipswich,  1702;  mar.  1st 
1729  Bethiah  Whipple, 
who  d.  1736  without 
surviving  issue.  He  d. 
1787. 

2d  wife  ;  mar.  b.  1705  ;  mar.  b,  1707  ;  mar.  1713;  mar.  Mary,  pleton,  b.  at 

1739  ;  d.  Hephzibah,  dau.  of  Lucy,  dau.  of  dau.  of  James  Rus-  Ipswich,  1721  ; 

1811.  Benjamin  Swain,  Thos.Boardman,  sell,  and  had  issue.  mar.  1745;  d 

and  had  issue.  See  and  had  issue.  See  below.  1798. 

below.  See  below. 

Brown,  d. 
1807. 

i  r 

Oliver  and  Mary 
Oliver,  d.  young. 

r  “t"  ~i  i  r  ~i  i  i  i  r  t  _  t 

Sarah,  mar.  Hannah,  Lucy,  Bethiah,  mar.  Nathaniel,  Nathan-  Eunice,b.l760;  Susannah,  b. 

to  ...  .  Mehitable,  d.  Joshua  Gid-  iel,  Sara,  Lucy,  all  mar.  Ephriam  1766;  mar.  Jere- 

Norton.  unm.  dings.  d.  young.  Fellows.  miah  Underhill. 

~l 

Sarah,  b. 
1765;  mar. 
John  Winn. 

Katherine,  Oliver  Appleton,  b.  at  Ips- 
mar.  Wil-  wich,  1760  ;  mar.  1789, 
liam  Whip-  Martha  Patch  (who  d.  1861) 
pie.  and  had  issue.  He  d.  1 852. 


- 1 

Rebecca, 
mar.  Jacob 
Perkins. 


Benjamin  Appleton,— Mary 
b.  at  Ipswich,  1750  :  Tilton, 
mar.  1773,  and  had  d.  1845. 
issue  ;  died  1825. 


Oliver  Appleton.  =j=Sarah  Cogs- 
b.  at  Ipswich,  I  well,  mar. 
1757  ;  d.  1797.  |  1790,  and  had 

4/issue  ;  d.1846. 


Oliver  Appleton  (see  above),  grandson  of= 
Samuel  Appleton,  the  Emigrant ;  b.  at 
Ipswich  in  New  England,  1677  ;  d.  1760. 

=Sarah,  dau.  of  Tobijah 

Perkins  of  Topsfield, 

Massachusetts;  d.  1769. 

r  i 

Oliver  Appleton,  b.  at  Joseph  Appleton,  b.= 

Ipswich,  N.E.,  1702  ;  at  Ipswich,  New  Eng- 

mar.  1st  Bethia  Whip-  land,  1705  ;  mar.  1734; 

pie,  2d  Sarah  Frail;  d.  d.  1782;  had,  with  other 

1787.  See  above.  issue,  who  d.  young. 

=Hephzibah,  dau-  of 
Benjamin  Swain.  She 
mar.  2dly  Isaac  Apple- 
ton  (see  Pedigree  A), 
and  d.  1788. 

i 

Johu  Appleton,  b.=j 
at  Ipswich,  N.E., 
1707  ;  mar.  1731  ; 
d.  1794. 

i 

=Lucy,  dau.  Nathaniel  Appleton,  b. 
of  Thomas  at  Ipswich,  N.E.,  1721  ; 
Boardman,  mar.  Susanna  Brown ; 
d.  1790.  d.  1798.  (See  above.) 

'  11  1 

Joseph  Appleton,  b.  at  Ips-  Hephzi-  Thomas  Appleton, =j=Mehitable 

wich,  1740,  mar.  1st  Haunah  bah,  b.  b.  at  Ipswich,  Crocker, 

Bacheller,  1762,  and  2d  1741  ;  1747  ;  mar.  1768;  d.  1804. 

Eunice  Perkins,  1776;  by  mar.  died  in  1810; 

whom  issue.  =p  Nathan-  leaving  issue.  4/ 

4/  iel  Day, 

r  T  H 

Lucy,  Mary, 
b.  1732;  b.  1744; 
mar.  mar. 

Abra-  Daniel 
ham  Rogers. 
Howe. 

T  ~r  ~\ 

Margaret, b.  Elizabeth,  John,  b. 

1742;  mar.  b.  1748  ;  1750  ;  d, 

1st  John  mar.Aaron  1798, 

Kinsman,  Treadwell.  unmar. 

2d  Daniel 

Thurston. 

J 


Mary  Steveus,= 
2d  wife,  mar. 
1739. 


=Samuei  Appleton,  b.  at  Ipswich, =j=Mary,  dau.  of 


1713  ;  mar.  1st  Mary,  dau.  of 
the  Rev.  Samuel  Phillips  ;  she 
d.  1737.  He  d.  in  1780. 


James  Russell,  3d 
wife  ;  mar.  1743  ; 
d.  1803. 


Benjamin  Appleton, =j=Rebecca  William  Appleton,  b.=j=Sarah 


b.  at  Ipswich,  1734  ; 
mar.  1768  ;  d.  1798, 
leaving  issue.  4^ 


Gilling-  at  Ipswich,  1737  ;  Kinsman 

ham.  mar.  1764  ;  d.  1807,  d.  1809. 

leaving  issue.  4/ 


L 


Samuel  Appleton,  b. 
at  Haverhill,  1740; 
d.  at  Boston,  1784. 
He  mar.Sarah  Anson, 
by  whom  issue. 


Thomas  Appleton,  b.  Mary,  mar. 

at  Haverhill,  1744  ;  Moses  Gale, 

mar.  Martha  Barnard,  — 

1766  (she  d.  1829).  Hannah,  d. 

He  d.  at  Boston,  young. 

1803,  leaving  issue. 


Daniel  Appleton,  b.  at  Haver¬ 
hill,  1754  ;  mar.  Lydia  Ela,  1775 
(she  d.  1826),  and  d.  1828. 
Amongst  their  children  was 
Daniel  Appleton,  who  founded  the 
Publishing  House  at  New  York. 


William  Appleton,  b.  at 
Haverhill,  1754  ;  mar. 
1782  ;  d.  at  Boston,  1795. 
Issue  by  Hannah  Clarke, 
his  wife,  who  d.  1845. 


Haunah, 

married 

Edward 

Wood¬ 

bury. 


APPLETON  OF  WALDIN OFIELD . 


335 


Appleton  i^eDtgree,  Hatl.  JR&.  1196. 


Orate  pro  aiabus  Joh’is  Appulton 
ct  Margareta  vx  ei’  qui  quid’  Joh’es 
obijt  9  die  Aprilis  Anno  D’ni  11/81 
et  Margareta  obijt  1/  die  Julij  Anno 
D’ni  11/68  quoru.  aiab.  propitietur 
Deus . 


Joh’es  Appulton  de  Waldingfilde =p 
magna  tempore  H.  1/  anno  11/ 
11/12,  huit  filium. 


Joh’es  Appulton  de  Waldingjild =f= 
mag.  27  H.  6  &  36  H.  6, 
1457. 


Andreius  Butlere=rChaterina  Car. 
miles  ob.  1429. 


Will’ ms  Crane.=j=Margeria  sola  filia  et  heres. 


Robt.  Crane  de  Stoneham  p’va=f=vx  filia  Syngleton. 
temp.  H.  6. 


I  l 

Thomas  Appulton  2  fil.  Joh’es  Appulton  de  Waldingfielde^vx  Margareta. 
6  Edw.  4,  146S,  p’va  obijt  22  Ed.  4  1481- 


Robertus=^Anna  jilia  Andrei  Ogard  militis  Rob’t.- 

Crane.  apud  Bucknam  ad  castru.  Mowntney 


Joh’es  Appulton  jil.  et  heres  ob.  1492,  bis  Thomas  Appulton  obijt=j=Margeria  sola  Jilia  Georgius  Crane,  ante  Thomas  Mowntn  .  .=f= 


maritatus  Elizabetha  et  Alicia. 


1507,  2  filius. 


Joh’es  Jil.  et  heres  <£>  axais. 


— 1 

3  Jilie. 


Orate  pro  anima  Thome  Appulton  natyve  de  Waldingjild 
mag.  qui  Thomas  ab  luce  migravit  Anno  D’ni  1507 
4  die  mensis  Octobris. 


et  heres. 


patrem,  airats. 


Orate  p.  ai’a  Margerie  Appulton  que 
obijt  4  die  Novembris  Anno  D’ni  1504 
cuius  anime  pp’itietur  Deus. 


Thomas  Mowntney. = 


I 


l — 


Thomas  Mountney.=r 

\ 

_ - 1 


Thomas  Mowntney  de  fr...  in  Com.  Essex  . 


Aicia  nupta  Thome  Springe  Robertus  Appulton^ Maria  2  Jilia  et  heres  pnstea  Elizabeth 


cognominato  Diviti.  1512.  obijt  1526. 


nupta  Martino  de  Melforde.  nupta  Tho  .  .  ,  ham  <£>  1517. 


Robtus  Sexten  de  Lav en-^ Agnes  soror  Thome 


Jermyn  militis. 


Orate  p.  a’iabus  Rob’ti  Appulton 
generosi  et  Marie  vx.  eius  qui 
quidem  Robt.  obijt  27  die  mensis 
Augusti  Anno  D’ni  1526  quoru. 
ai’ abus  propitietur  Deus.  Amen. 


Edwardus  Appulton  de  Edwards-  IVill’us  Appultnn=j=Rosa  sexta  Jilia  et  coheres  in  Thomas  Sexten.^ 


Ion  2  JUius.  awais.  duxit  de  Waldingefelde 
Alicia  filia  (fir  mani  Roockwoodde  p’va. 

Ewston. 


fine  postea  nupta  Robt.  Gourdon  \ - - 

de  assington  armigero.  Thomas  Sexten. 

Edwardus  Isaacke=\=  M argeria.  2  coheres  Richardi 


de  Kancia. 


Wheattell  de  S 


francisca  nupta  little  Berry  de 
Dedham. 


Thomas  Appulton  obijt  Londini  vbi=f=Maria  2  coheres.  Margareta  3  coheres  nupta  Johanni  Jenny 
sepellitur.  de  Stutton. 


Maria  1  filia  nupta  Robto 
Ryece  de  Preston. 


Juditha  2  filia  nupta  Lodovico  Bayly 
vt  Theollogo. 


Saraah  nupta  Edwardo  Byrde  de 
Walden  in  Com.  Essex  gen. 


- 1 


Juditha  obijt  infans. 


Samuell  App  :  4  filius. 


- ! - ] - 

Thomas  A.  3  ft.  <0  airais.  Joh’es  Ap.  2  filius. 


miles.— Maria  filia  Anthonij  Cage  ar. 


Like  most  of  the  pedigrees  in  the  Harleian  MSS.,  that  of  Appleton  above  given  cannot  be  relied  upon  for  exactitude  of 
statement  in  all  its  details.  Margery  Crane,  the  wife  of  Thomas  Appleton,  was  not  the  daughter,  but  the  sister  of  the  Robert  Crane 
who  married  Anne  Ogard,  and  is  indeed  so  described  by  him  in  his  will,  now  in  the  custody  of  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Canterbury. 
We  learn  alike  from  his  Inquisition  post  mortem  and  from  the  will  of  Dame  Anne  Arundel,  his  relict,  that  he  died  without 
surviving  issue  and  that  Robert  Crane,  his  brother’s  son,  was  his  heir.  Alice  Spring,  again,  the  second  wife  of  Thomas  Spring 
of  Lavenham,  was  the  daughter  of  one  King  of  Boxford.  Margery  Spring  (not  Alice  as  stated  on  p.  73),  the  first  wife,  was 
sister  and  executrix  of  Thomas  Appleton.  To  this  day  it  is  not  quite  certain  whether  William  Appleton,  who  married  Rose  Sexton 
and  Edward  Appleton,  his  brother,  were  not  the  nephews  rather  than  the  sons  of  Robert  Appleton  and  Mary  Mounteney,  who 
left  no  wills,  and  died  unnoticed  by  the  escheators  of  their  day. 


336 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


®ill  of  ®Ijontas  JHnors  of  j$f.  ©mttatns,  1666. 

I’th  name  of  God  Amen.  I  Thomas  Moore 
the  fourth  yeare  of  my  age  above  threescore 
Revokeing  all  the  wills  I  made  before 
make  this  my  last.  And  First  I  doe  implore 
Allmighty  God,  into  his  hands  to  take 
my  soule  which  not  alone  himselfe  did  make 
But  did  redeeme  it  with  the  pretious  bloode 
of  his  Deare  sonne ;  that  tytle  still  holds  good. 

I  next  bequeath  my  body  to  the  dust 

From  whence  it  Came,  which  is  no  more  than  just. 

Desireing  yet  that  it  bee  laid  close  by 
my  eldest  daughter  though  I  say  not  why, 

And  leave  my  Grandchild  Martha  (but  her  due) 

my  Lands  and  all  my  Chattells  save  a  fewe 

you  shall  hereafter  in  this  schedule  finde 

to  pyetye  or  Charitye  designed, 

wliome  I  my  Sole  Executrix  invest 

to  pay  these  and  my  debts  and  take  the  rest. 

But  since  that  shee  is  vnder  age  I  pray 
Sr  Edward  Walpole  and  her  ffather  may 
the  Supervisors  bee  of  this  my  will 
Provided  that  my  Cousen  Colvile  still 
and  Maior  Spencely  their  assistants  bee 
foure  honest  men  are  more  than  two  or  three. 

And  then  I  shall  not  Care  how  sooue  I  dye 
if  they  accept  it,  and  I’ll  tell  you  why. 

There’s  not  a  man  of  them  but  is  so  just 
with  wliome  almost  my  soule  I  durst  not  trust. 

Provided  shee  do  make  her  second  sonne 
heyre  to  my  house  at  least  and  halfe  my  land 
If  shee  have  such — and  when  she  has  soe  done 
Shee  be  a  meanes  to  let  him  vnderstand 
It  is  my  wish  his  name  be  written  thus 
T.  A.  B,  C.  or  D.  Moore  alius. 

To  the  poore  of  Germans  twenty  pounds  for  a  stocke  to  sett  the  poore  on  worke.  It  case  it 

please  God  my  grandchild  Martha  should  dye  ere  she  come  of  age  or  be  married  I  doe  declare 

Thomas  Gurling  the  sonne  of  Mary  Gurling  to  be  my  heire.  Martha  my  wife  to  ioyne  with  my 

supvisors  in  matching  my  grandchild  Maria.  The  22th  day  of  November  1666.  Probatum  fuit 

decimo  quinto  die  January  1667.  JuramenV  Marthse  Appleton.  P.C.C.  90  Hene, 

In  the  chancel  of  Wiggenhall  St.  Germains,  Norfolk,  there  is  an  inscription  in  memory  of 
Martha,  wife  of  Robert  Appleton,  Esq.,  eldest  daughter  and  coheir  of  Thomas  Moore.  She  died 
10th  October  1653.  And  near  this  is  a  monument  erected  by  Martha  Appleton,  her  daughter,  the 
“  grandchild  Martha  ”  of  the  above  will,  in  sorrowing  memory  of  Thomas  Moore,  her  grandfather, 
who  passed  happily  to  a  better  world  on  the  7th  of  November  1667.  Blomefield,  IX,  193. 


APPLETON  OF  WALDINGFIELD. 


333 


HSHtUtams  of  iknnsgftiama. 


Stephen  Williams  of  Great  Yarmouth,  co.  Norfolk ;  of  a=j=Margaret,  (lau.  of  Nicholas  Cooke  of  North  Repps,  co.  Nor- 


sixteenth  century  family  residing  in  that  town  ;  married 
at  St.  Nicholas  Church,  22  Sept.  1605  ;  bur.  19  Sept. 
1625. 


folk,  and  Winifred,  his  wife  ;  sister  and  devisee  of  Thomas 
Cooke  of  Great  Yarmouth,  who  made  will,  Arch.  Norw., 
3  Nov.  1623.  She  was  bur.  at  Yarmouth,  13  Sept.  1625. 


2d  wife,  relict  of— Robert  Williams  of  Norwich,  bapt.  at  Great  Yarmouth, =pElizabeth  Stalham,  went 


John  Fearing,  who  came  11  Dec.  1608;  Freeman  of  Norwich,  1630  ;  Warden  of  his 
from  England  in  the  Guild,  1635  ;  emigrated  to  Massachusetts,  1637  ;  Freeman 
“  Diligent,”  in  1638.  of  Roxbury,  1638  ;  member  of  the  Ancient  and  Hon. 

Artillery  Company,  1644;  d.  1  Sept.  1693. 


Samuel  Williams,  b.  in  England,  1632  ;  mar.  Theoda,  dau. 
of  the  Hon.  Wm.  Parke,  and  was  father  of  the  Rev.  John 
Williams  of  Deerfield,  Mass.,  who  was  captured  by  the 
Indians,  29  Feb.  1704,  and  taken  to  Canada  with  four 
children — his  wife  and  two  young  children  being  killed. 
From  his  dau.,  Euuice,  descended  by  Indian  and  half- 
breed  intermarriages,  Thomas  Williams,  known  as  Tehora- 
gwanegen,  a  Chief  of  the  Iroquois,  and  his  son,  the  Rev. 
Eleazer  Williams,  well  known  as  one  of  the  pretenders 
who  claimed  to  be  Louis  XVII  of  France. 


TT 


Elizabeth  and  Deborah, 
went  with  their  father 
intoNewEngland.  The 
former  mar.  Richard 
Cutter,  and  the  latter 
became  the  2d  wife  of 
John  Turner  of  Rox¬ 
bury.  Their  descen¬ 
dants  now  number 
many  thousands. 


with  her  husband  to  New 
England  ;  d.  at  Roxbury, 
Massachusetts,  28  July 
1674. 


Nicholas  Williams, 
d.  at  his  brother’s 
house  at  Roxbury, 
Mass.,  27  Aug.  1672. 


Capt.  Stephen  Williams,  commanded  the  Red 
Troop  of  Horse  through  the  wars  at  the  com¬ 
mencement  of  the  eighteenth  century.  From 
him  descended  Benjamin  Williams,  whose  dau., 
Susan  May,  mar.  Jerome  Napoleon,  son  of 
Prince  Jerome  Napoleon,  and  Elizabeth  (Patterson) 
Bonaparte  of  Baltimore.  From  them  descended 
the  late  Col.  Jerome  Napoleon  Bonaparte,  and 
the  Hon.  Charles  Joseph  Bonaparte  of  Balti- 


John  Williams,  went  with  his 
father  into  New  England,  1637  ; 
died  at  Roxbury,  Massachusetts, 
1658,  unmarried  and  intestate. 


Martha,  1st  wife,  dau.  of  the=pCapt.  Isaac  Williams  of  Newton, “Judith, 2d  wife,  dau.  of  Peter  Hunt, 


Hon.  William  Parke,  member  of 
Ancient  and  Hon.  Artillery  Com¬ 
pany  and  Deputy  to  the  General 
Court,  1635 — 1667 


Mass.  (1638 — 1707)  ;  Commander 
of  the  troop  of  Foot ;  Representa¬ 
tive  to  the  General  Court  of  the 
Colony.  Bur.  under  arms,  1707. 


and  widow  of  Nathaniel  Cooper, 
sou  of  Thomas  Cooper  of  Hingliam, 
Norfolk,  England.  She  was  mar. 
1677. 


Capt.  Isaac1 
Williams  of 
Newton-Rox- 
bury,  Mass. , 
(1661—1789). 
His  2d  wife 
was  Mary, 
widow  of 
Nathaniel 
Hammond. 


pElizabeth,  dau.  of  Jonathan  Hyde  of  Newton,  .  .  . 
and  granddau.  of  Capt.  Wm.  French  of  Bil-  1st 
lerica,  Mass.  She  was  b.  1659,  and  d.  1699.  wife. 


.=j=Rev. 


William  Williams=F. 


of  Hatfield,  Massachusetts. 


2d 

wife. 


Col.  Ephraim  Williams  of 
Stockbridge,  Massachusetts. 


Col.  Williams  of 
the  Frontier  and 
Indian  War.  Re¬ 
presentative  to 
General  Court. 


Col.  Elisha  Wil- 
liams  of  the 
Frontier  and 
Indian  War  ; 
Rector  of  Yale 
College. 


Rev.  Solomon  Col.  Israel  Thomas  Williams,  Surgeon,  Col,  Ephriam 

Williams  of  Williams  of  Frontier  and  Indian  War.  Williams,  jun.; 

Lebanon,  the  Fron-  From  him  descended  the  killed  in  battle, 

Connecticut.  tier  and  Rt.  Rev.  Dr.  John  Williams,  8  Sept.  1755; 

•=j=  Indian  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Founder  of 

War.  Episcopal  Church  of  the  Williams  Col- 

United  States,  who  d.  1899.  lege. 


Ebeuezer  Williams,  5tli  son,  b.  1691  ; 
mar.  Mary,  dau.  of  Andrew  and 
Elizabeth  Vetch  of  Lebanon- Goshen, 
Connecticut.  For  their  descendants 
see  the  work  of  A.  S.  Wright,  Esq. 


Capt.  William  Williams  of  New-=j=Experience,  dau.  of  Joseph  Wilson  of  New¬ 


ton,  Massachusetts,  and  Mans¬ 
field,  Connecticut  (1690—1767); 
Capt.  of  troop  ;  Representative 
to  General  Court  of  Connecticut. 


ton,  Mass.,  and  Deliverance,  his  wife ; 
granddau.  of  Lieut.  Griffin  Craft  of  Rox¬ 
bury  and  of  Christopher  Jackson  of  Stepney, 
co.  Middx.,  and  of  Norland,  1602. 


Hon.  William  Wil¬ 
liams,  one  of  the 
signers  of  the  De¬ 
claration  of  Inde¬ 
pendence. 


Captain  Amariali  Williams,  com¬ 
manded  the  Company  of  Minute 
Men  from  Mansfield,  Conn.,  at 
the  Lexington  alarm,  and  thence 
through  Bunker  Hill  and  the 
Revolution. 


Captain  Phinehas  Williams  ofq=Mary,  dau.  of  Bennet  Field  of 


Mansfield,  Conn.,  and  Wood- 
stock  Vermont  (1734 — 1020) ; 
Capt.  of  Woodstock  Company, 
1 776, and  through  the  Revolution. 
For  his  issue  see  next  page. 


Lebanon,  Conn.,  whose  mother, 
Mary  Bennet  of  Northampton, 
Mass.,  was  captured  by  the 
Indians,  1704,  her  two  youngest 
Nj/children  being  killed  by  them. 


834 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


?8Satlltams  of  l^ennoglbama. 


Captain  Samuel  Appleton,  of- 
Ip3wich,  Massachusetts,  son  of 
Samuel  Appleton,  Esq.,  and 
Anna  Gerrish,  and  fifth  in 
descent  from  Samuel  Apple- 
ton  of  WaldingfieldjCO  Suffolk, 
the  New  England  Emigrant 
of  1635.  See  pedigree,  p.  331, 
Appleton  of  New  England. 


=Mary,  dau.  of  John  Wentworth, 
jun.,  of  Portsmouth,  N.H.  (1703- 
1733),  Judge  of  the  Courts  of 
Probate  and  Common  Pleas ;  niece 
to  Penning  Wentworth,  Governor 
of  New  Hampshire.  Fifth  in  des¬ 
cent  from  William  Wentworth,  the 
New  England  Emigrant.  She  d. 
at  Woodstock,  Vermont,  1810. 


Captain  Phinehas  Wil¬ 
liams  of  Mansfield, 
Connecticut  and  Wood- 
stock,  Vermont,  1734- 
1820  (see  preceding 
page),  Captain  of  Wood- 
stock  Company,  1776, 
and  through  the  Revo¬ 
lution. 


=j=Mary,  dau.  of  Bennet  Field  of 
Lebanon,  Connecticut,  whose 
mother,  Mary  Bennet  of  North¬ 
ampton,  Mass.,  was  captured 
by  the  Indians,  1704,  her  two 
youngest  children  being  killed 
by  them.  She  returned  from 
captivity,  1706. 


Rebecca  Appleton,  b.  at=f=Henry  Barlow  Brown, 


Portsmouth,  New  Hamp¬ 
shire,  30  June  1766  ;  d. 
at  Woodstock,  Vermont, 
1816.  Her  brothers, 
Samuel  and  Henry  Apple- 
ton,  died  s.p. 


Esq.,  Barrister-at-Law, 
Registrar  of  Wills  and 
Deeds  for  the  County  of 
Charlotte,  New  Bruns¬ 
wick,  temp,  George  III. 
and  George  IV. 


CaptainOliver 

Williams, 

commanding 

regiment, 

1776. 


Hon.  Jesse  Williams  of : 
Woodstock,  Vermont, 
(1761-1842)  ;  Judge  of 
the  Courts  of  Probate  and 
Common  Pleas  ;  Presi¬ 
dent  Judge  of  the  latter. 


:Hannah,  dau.  of  Gershom  Palmer,*  jun.,  of 
Woodstock,  Vermont,  a  Lieut,  of  the  Revo¬ 
lutionary  Army,  by  Lucy,  dau.  of  Bennet 
Field  above-named.  Gershom  Palmer’s 
mother,  Mehitable  Badger,  descended  from 
Daniel  Lunt,  who  was  killed  by  the  Indians 
in  the  early  days  of  the  colony. 


Mary  Ann  Went¬ 
worth  Brown  (1795- 
1879.)  Her  sister, 
Louisa  Wentworth 
Brown,  mar.  .  .  . 
Higgiuson,  and  had 


i — — 

Hon.  Norman  Williams  of 
Woodstock,  Vermont,  Clerk  of 
the  Courts  of  the  County  of 
Windsor  for  thirty  years. 
State  Senator  and  Secretary  of 
State  for  Vermont  (1791- 
1868). 


I - 

Mary  Ann  Went¬ 
worth, 2nd  child;  b. 
1822;  mar. William 
Merritt  Campbell, 
Esq. 


Hon.  Hezekiah  Williams, b.  1798  ;  Memberof  the  Congress  for  Maine.  Rev.  George  Pal- 
His  three  sons  were  all  in  service  through  the  Civil  War  ;  Hezekiah,  iner  Williams, 
jun.,  was  Medical  Director  of  the  Army  of  the  Tennessee;  Charles  Professor  of 
was  in  the  Army,  and  Edward  Patterson  in  the  Navy.  As  Captain  Physics  in  the 
of  the  U.S.S.  Oneida,  he  went  down  writh  his  ship  in  Yokohama  Bay,  University  of 
after  providing  for  the  safety  of  all  who  could  escape.  Michigan. 


Henry  Brown  Williams,  of  San 
Francisco,  California  ;  born  1820  ; 
mar.  Mary  Cooke  ;  d.  1890,  leaving 
one  daughter. 


Charles  Storrow  Williams,  b. 
1827  ;  Director  of  R.R.  Trans¬ 
portation  for  Confederate  States, 
1863-5  ;  ob.  s.p. 


Norman  Williams,  jun.,  of 
Chicago,  Ill.;  b.  1835  ;  mar. 
Caroline,  dau.  of  Hon.  John 
Dean  Caton. 


— n 
Louisa 
and 
Susan, 
d.  s.p. 


Edward  Higgiuson  Williams,  M.D.  of  Philadelphia  and  Went  worth, =j=Cornelia  Bailey,  dau.  of  Lieut.  John  A.  Pratt,  and  grand-daughter 


Rosemont,  Pennsylvania,  Knight  of  the  Swedish  Order  of  the  North 
Star  ;  Member  of  the  Swedish  Royal  Academy  ;  U.S.  Commissioner  to 
the  Melbourne  and  Sydney  Expositions  ;  b.  1  June  1824. 


of  Lieut.  John  Pratt  of  the  New  Hampshire  troops.  She  was  sixth 
in  descent  from  Lieut.  Samuel  Pratt  of  Weymouth,  Massachusetts, 
who  was  killed  in  the  war  of  1676. 


Edward  Higgiuson  Williams,  jun.,  of  Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania,  b.=j=Jennie  Olive,  dau.  of  Augustine  S. 


30  Sept.  1849  ;  Fellow  of  American  Philosophical  Society  and  of 
American  Geological  Society. 


Bems,  late  of  Brookline,  Massa¬ 
chusetts. 


William  Anna,  mar.  William 

Williams,  F.  Dreer  of  Philadel- 

d.  s.p.  phia. 


Olive  Bemis. 


- ! - 

Cornelia. 


Elizabeth. 


Edward  Higginson. 


- 1 - 

Norman. 


Amory  Leland. 


Wentworth. 


“  Dr.  Edward  H.  Williams  has  been  prominently  identified  with  educational  matters  in  the  United  States,  having  erected 
and  equipped  buildings  for  teaching  pure  and  applied  science  at  Carleton  College  (in  memory  of  his  son  William),  and  at  the 
University  of  Vermont  (in  memory  of  his  wife),  and  has  given  largely  to  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  and  other  institutions.” 

*  Gershom  Palmer  was  descended  from  George  Denison  of  Stouington,  Connecticut,  who  returned  to  Europe  for  a  time,  serving 
as  Captain  under  Oliver  Cromwell,  both  in  England  and  Ireland.  Coming  back  to  America,  he  was  placed  second  in  command 
of  the  colonial  troops,  whom  he  headed  in  the  war  which  destroyed  the  Narragansett  nation,  taking  prisoner  their  chief 
Miantonomo.  He  died  at  Hartford,  during  a  session  of  the  General  Court,  of  which  he  was  for  many  years  a  member. 


iioggett  of  #roton. 


Armorial  Umrngs. 

The  Arms  allowed  at  the  Visitation  of  London  in  1664  to  “John  Doget,  mchant,”  descended 
from  “  Grotten  in  Suff:  ”  were  Gules,  two  greyhounds  salient  combatant,  Or,  collared  Argent.  The 
crest  was  an  unicorn’s  head,  Ermine,  maned  Or,  horned  Argent.  Earl.  MS.  1086.  The  shield 
is  a  slight  variant  of  that  of  Doggett  of  Honingham  and  Shernbourn  in  Norfolk,  in  which  the 
greyhounds  are  collared  Sable.  But  the  crest  of  the  latter  family  is  altogether  distinct — a  lion’s 
head  erased,  Or,  gorged  with  a  mural  coronet,  Sable.  Harl.  MS.  1552.  These  insignia,  together 
■with  others  borne  by  various  families  of  the  name,  form  the  frontispiece  of  the  “  History  of  the 
Doggett — Daggett  Family,”  by  Samuel  Bradlee  Doggett,  one  of  those  excellent  genealogies  for 
which  the  Americans  are  famous,  the  result  of  prolonged  and  often  costly  research,  alike  amongst 
the  ancient  records  of  this  country  and  the  more  modern  registries  on  the  other  side  of  the 
Atlantic.  This  work,  for  which  the  Editor  is  indebted  for  much  useful  information,  abounds  with 
illustrations,  the  views  of  Groton  and  Boxford  Churches  being  exceptionally  clear  and  artistic. 


Will  of  Jloljn  Doggett,  1564. 

The  xvii  daye  of  January,  1564,  John  Doggett  of  Bures  S*  Marye  in  the  coihte  of  Sufff 
gentilman.  Vnto  Wylliam  Dogget  the  yonger  my  sonne  my  capitall  messuage  or  head  liowse  in 
Groton  called  Edmiids,  with  londes  tents,  meadows,  feedings  &  pastures  in  Groton,  now  in  the 
manuraunce  of  my  brother  Wittm  More  or  his  assignes,  one  liowse  called  the  Dye  bowse  and 

meadows  belonging,  one  pece  of  lond,  lyinge  Shaddow,  abuttynge  vpon  the  parsoge  lond  of  Growton 

&c.,  &c.,  vnto  sayd  Wittm  &  the  heires  of  his  bodie,  when  he  atteyneth  his  full  age  of  one  and 

twentye  yeres;  but  if  he  fortune  to  dye  before  that  tyme  without  issue  lawfully  begotten  I  geve 

said  londes  to  Jhon  my  sonne  at  his  age  of  twentye  one.  Vnto  said  Jhon  my  sonne,  when 
twentye  one,  and  his  heires,  I  geve  my  tent  called  Wrights  now  in  the  manuraunce  of  Jhon 
Tayler,  closes  called  Mancliffes,  Monkes  and  Meyes,  one  tent  in  Stone  Strete  in  Boxford,  and 
lands  in  Groton,  Edwardestone  &  Boxford.  If  he  die  without  issue  said  londes  to  Wittm  my 

sonne  &  the  heires  of  his  body.  Executor  to  hold  said  londes  vntil  sonnes  come  to  their 

severall  ages  of  one  and  twentye'  yeres,  also  to  have  the  gouernment,  ordre  &  bringinge  vppe 
of  them  &  of  all  my  children.  Vnto  Wittm  Dogget  my  eldest  sonne  &  to  his  heyres  my 

messuage  now  in  the  manuraunce  of  Jhon  Ridsdale  <fc  the  lands  belonginge  in  Groton,  also  x1  at 
his  full  age  of  one  and  twentye.  Vnto  Ann  my  doughter  one  hundreth  markes  at  her  age  of 
one  &  twentye  yeres.  Vnto  Wittm  Dogget  my  yongest  sonne  my  copie  houlde  landes  <fc  tenemts 
called  Robbes  landes  copy  of  Wittm  Walgrave  Esq.  of  his  mr  of  lesen  Hall.  Vnto  Robert 
Lapage  vh.  Vnto  Alice  Abbott  v1  xiij8  iiijd.  Vnto  Thoms  lapage  iij1  vi3  viijd.  Vnto  Rafe 


338 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Lapage  iij1’  xiijs  iiijd.  Vnto  Alis  Edgar  my  kinswoman  iij 11  vi3  viijd.  Ynto  Jane  lapage,  Alis 
lapage  &  Mary  lapage,  to  euery  of  them  vis  viijd.  Ynto  my  sister  More  x3,  my  sister  Spencer 
xxs,  her  daughters  &  sonnes.  To  my  brother  Jhon  Abbott  xx8  A  to  Thoms  Doggett  xi3  viijd. 
To  my  daughter  Ardelye,  Vnto  the  poore  of  Buris  xls,  of  Groton,  xis,  of  Wison,  xx8.  To  James 
Smyth  xx8,  Thom  Jane  xs,  Gyles  Ashfilde  gentleman  xxvi8  viijd,  Rychard  Alen  xx8.  The  residue 
of  my  goodes,  plate,  Jewelles,  cattelles  &c.,  equally  to  my  thre  children  Jhon  Doget,  Wiltru 
Doget  &  Ann  Doget.  I  ordeyne  my  brother  WiSm  Moore  of  Groton  sole  executor.  Jhon 
Winterflowed,  A  Vitim  Alyn  Ac.  witnesses.  Probat.  sexto  die  mensis  Maij  1565. 


Arch.  Sudb.,  I.iber  “  Arnolde,”  fo.  154. 


The  sixte  daye  of  October,  1566,  I  William  More  of  Groton  in  the  countye  of  Sufff  gentilman 
make  this  my  phte  testamente.  My  bodye  to  be  buried  in  the  pishe  churche  of  Groton.  I 


bequeath  unto  my  lovinge  wief  Alice  More  all  my  landes  and  tenements,  except  [those]  to  other 


persons  pticulery  geuen,  duringe  her  naturall  lyef.  I  «euc  unto  Thomas  Lappage  my  sonne  iu 
lawe,  after  the  decease  of  my  saide  wief,  my  cappitall  messuage  in  Boxford  called  Churches,  with 
the  landes  belonginge  in  the  townes  and  feildes  of  Boxford  and  Edwardeston.  Unto  Raffe  Lappage, 
after  the  deathe  of  my  wief  my  messuage  whiche  Lewis  of  Stoke  now  dwelleth  in.  Unto 
William  Lappage  my  messuage  in  Edwardeston.  Unto  Robert  Lappage  xxx11.  To  Mary  and  Alice 
Lappage,  daughters  of  the  said  Robert  Lappage,  to  either  of  them  fyve  poundes.  To  Alice 
Edgar  my  wiues  daughter  fourtye  poundes.  Unto  Margarett  Pigott  of  Ippiswiche  my  sister 
foure  poundes  yerely.  Unto  Paskynge  Nedeham  my  sisters  daughter  fourtye  poundes.  To  her 
daughter  Anne  Newton  when  xxi.  To  my  kynsman  Henry  Fox  tenne  poundes.  Ynto  Thomas 
Cowper  thelder  of  Ippiswiche  duringe  his  lyef  my  messuage  in  Caresey.  Ynto  John  More  and 
his  heires  my  landes  and  tenements  called  Lyndeseys  in  Stoke  next  Naylande.  Ynto  Thomas 

More  the  sonne  of  Richard  More  my  landes  and  tenements  called  Jolyves  win  the  sayde  towne 
of  Stoke,  he  to  pay  vnto  Alice  Starlinge  his  sister  fyve  poundes.  Vnto  Robert  More  my 
kynesman  twentye  sixe  pounds  thirtene  shillinges  fowre  pence.  Vnto  William,  Thomas  and 
Margerye  More  the  children  of  John  More  of  Hengham  in  Norff.  To  the  children  of  Symon 
More  my  brother.  Vnto  John  Wyntroppe  gent,  John  Spencer,  William  Coo,  and  John  Gale  and 
there  heires  for  euer,  after  my  wiefs  dicease,  my  messuage  in  Boxforde  and  Hadleighe  nowe  in 
the  tenure  of  Christofer  Clyf,  to  distribute  the  rents  to  the  poore  people  of  Boxford  and  Groton. 
To  the  poore  of  Edwardeston  the  some  of  twelve  poundes.  To  my  sister  Elizabeth  Spencer 
twentye  shillings.  To  John  Dogat  fyve  poundes  at  thage  of  xxii  yeres.  To  Anne  Dogat 

fourtye  shillings  to  be  payde  at  the  daye  of  her  marriage.  Chambre  hangings  Ac.  vnto  William 

Dogatte  the  yonger  also  fyve  powndes  to  be  payde  to  him  at  his  age  of  xxi  yeres.  To  Elizabeth 

More  the  daughter  of  my  brother  Richard  More.  The  residue  of  my  goodes  I  geue  vnto  my 
lovinge  wife  and  Thomas  Lappage  her  sonne,  which  twoe  I  ordeyne  my  executors.  My  said 
sonne  in  lawe  shall  haue  the  execucoii  of  the  last  will  of  my  brother  John  Dogate  to  wliome 
I  was  onely  executor,  and  the  bringinge  upp  of  all  the  children  of  the  sayde  John  Dogate. 
Probation  viii0  die  Marti  j  1566  juramenti  procuris  Alicie  relce  et  Thome  Lappage. 


P.C.C.  9  Stonard. 


DOGGETT  OF  GROTON. 


339 


Mill  of  floljit  fioggett,  1619, 

I  John  Doggett  of  Groton,  co.  SufF.,  Clothier,  22  May  1619,  beinge  warned  thorough  sicknes 
of  my  mortall  estate,  doe  make  this  my  last  will  and  testam*.  I  comend  my  soule  into  the  hands 
of  allmighty  god  my  maker  and  redeamer.  I  will  that  my  bodye  be  decentlye  buried  in  the 
churchyard  of  Groton  by  my  late  and  dear  wife  at  the  discretion  of  Lewis  Kidbye  and  Francis 
Cooper,  my  sonnes  in  lawe.  I  doe  giue  vnto  John  Dogget  my  eldest  sonne  and  his  heyres  for 
euer  my  lands  tenemts  and  hereditamts  in  Groton,  and  one  dye  house  with  the  lead  and  fatts 

and  lands  in  Groton.  Vnto  Beniamyn  Dogget  my  yojigest  sone  that  freehold  messuag  in  Groton 

called  Streats  and  two  closes  holden  cf  the  King’s  Colledge  in  Cambridge  and  one  messuage  called 
Brokehouse  and  lands  in  Wiston,  co.  Sufff  and  tenement  &  lands  in  Neyland  &  coppiehold  lands 
there.  And  alsoe  the  sume  of  one  hundred  pounds  at  his  full  age  of  xxiiijtie  yeares.  To  Amy 
Dogget  my  daughter  one  hundred  pounds.  Yf  my  sonnes  John  and  Beniamyn  refuse  to  pay 
legacies  I  appoint  my  louinge  kinsman  John  Brond  of  Edwards  ton  Gent.  &  Joseph  Coell  of  Groton 

clothier  to  enter  into  my  lands  &  satisfy  &  pay  said  debts  and  legacies.  Vnto  the  poore  of 

Groton  tenn  pounds.  Alsoe  I  doe  giue  towards  the  mayntenance  of  the  free  schole  of  Boxford 
the  sume  of  fower  pounds.  I  giue  vnto  Lewis  Kidbye  my  sonne  in  lawe  and  Suzan  Kidbye  my 
daughter  his  wife  one  anuitye  of  fiue  pounds — and  to  their  children  at  their  decease  fiftye  pounds 
to  be  equally  diuided  amongst  them.  My  household  stuffe  to  be  equallye  diuided  betweene  my 
flue  daughters.  Bridgett  my  daughter  shall  have  the  first  choyse  because  she  is  my  eldest 
daughter,  To  my  godsonne  John  Dogget  the  sonne  of  John  Dogget  xx3  and  his  two  daughters 
xxs  apiece.  To  Anne  and  Suzan  the  daughters  of  Francis  Cooper  and  Bridgit  his  wife  the  some 
of  xxs  a  piece.  And  to  Mary  the  daughter  of  Martha  Flack  my  daughter  xxs.  To  the  poore 
of  Boxford  and  of  Edwardston  xxs  apiece.  I  make  John  and  Benmayn  Dogget  my  sonnes  sole 
executors.  But  because  John  my  sonne  his  abode  is  beyond  the  sea  it  shall  require  I  doe  make 
Francis  Cooper  my  sonne  in  lawe  supvisor  of  this  will.  And  I  hartily  desire  him  that  he  will 
take  paynes  in  this  behalfe  vntill  it  shall  please  god  to  send  him  safely  into  England.  And  I 
doe  giue  him  for  his  Labor  and  paynes  soe  taken  iiju  vis  viijd.  The  mke  of  John  Doggett.  Sealed 
and  published  in  the  presence  of  vs  Thomas  Nicholson,  the  mke  of  George  Culpecke  &  ffrancis 
Cooper.  Probatum  fuit  apud  Buriam  Ste  Edi  quarto  die  Augusti  1619.  Et  coinissa  fuit  Ads0 
bouor<>  Johanni  Doggett  vni  Executory.  xxx°  die  Augusti  1619  Comp*  Beniamin  Dogget  alter 
Executor.  Et  Adsem  bonor^  sibi  comitti.  Arch.  Sudb.,  Liber  “Gibson,”  fo.  321. 


Sale  of  ICaitfts  in  fBofforfr,  1629, 

Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Regis  apud  WestrS  in  crastino  Aiar  anno  reguo^ 
Caroli  dei  gra  Angl,  &c.,  Regis,  &c.,  quarto.  In?  Robtum  Gurdon  Ar  quer  et  Aviciam  Doggett 
viduam  &  Thomam  Doggett  geSosum  &  Marcia  in  vxeiu  eius  deforc  de  trib^  mesuagys,  duob^ 
horreis,  trib^  gardinis  trib^  pomarijs,  centum  &  triginta  tre,  duodecim  acris  prati,  viginti  acris 
pasture  &  octo  acris  Jampno^  ife  bruer  iu  Boxford  &  Polsted,  vnde  plitin  conuencois  sum  fuit 
in?  eos.  Et  p  hac  recogn  remissione  quietclam  Warant  fine  &  concordia  idem  Robtus  dedit  pdcis 
Avice  &  Thome  &  Marg’ie  ducentas  libras  sterlingor^. 

Feet  of  Fines,  Suffolk,  Mich.,  4  Chas.  I. 

2  U2 


340 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


It  need  scarcely  be  stated  that  the  sum  mentioned  in  this  document  is  a  merely  nominal 
one.  There  is  a  letter  of  Thomas  Doggett  respecting  this  property  in  the  Massachusetts’  Historical 
Society’s  “Collections,”  Series  V,  Vol.  I,  179,  dated  6th  Oct.  1627,  addressed  “To  my  very  loving 
brother  Mr  John  Winthrop  Esqr  at  his  house  in  Groton.”  “  You  desire,”  he  says,  “  to  helpe  me 
wth  a  chapman  for  my  house  &  land.  I  am  to  goe  (God  willing)  wth  my  vnckle  Brand  to  London 
to  parley  about  the  sale  of  it.  I  haue  a  plott  of  all  my  lands,  and  how  many  acres  euery  field  & 
close  coteyne.  I  have  been  bidden  180011  for  it,  but  my  vnckle  thinks  it  to  be  to  littell.  If  a 
gent  will  buy  it  to  dwell  in  my  prise  is  twoe  thousand  pownd.” 


piston  t.  gloggett,  1644. 

The  answare  of  Avice  Doggett,  widdowe,  one  of  the  Defts  to  the  bill  of  Comp11  of  Edward 
Alston,  Compl*. 

This  Def*  doth  not  knowe  of  any  discourse,  bgayne  or  agreem*  betwen  the  Compl*  and 
WiHm  Doggett,  some  tvmes  her  husband,  and  is  a  meere  stranger  to  all  the  passages  in 
the  Complts  bill  charged  to  the  other  Def6,  Ann  Duke,  and  her  late  husband.  In  1810  the 
said  WiHm  Doggett  dyed.  Before  his  death  he  made  his  last  will  and  testam*  .and  thereby 
amongst  other  things  devised  as  followeth.  “  I  give  to  WiRm  Doggett  my  sonne  flower  hundred 
pounds,  and  to  John  Doggett  my  sonne  ffower  hundred  pounds,  and  to  Lappage  Doggett  my 
sonne  one  thousand  pounds,  and  to  Richard  Doggett  one  thousand  pounds,  to  be  payd  to  evily 
of  my  said  ffowre  sonnes  at  their  sem  all  ages  of  ffowre  and  tw'enty  yeeres.  I  give  vnto  Anna 
Doggett  my  eldest  daughter  to  be  payd  vnto  her  att  her  age  of  twenty  yeeres.  Allso  I  doe 
give  to  Suzan  Doggett  my  second  daughter,  to  Avice  Doggett  my  third  daughter,  to  Alice 
Doggett  my  ffourth  daughter  and  to  Dorothy  Doggett  my  youngest  daughter  flower  hundred 
pounds  apiece,  to  be  payd  vnto  them  at  there  sen!  all  ages  of  twenty  yeeres.  I  give  to  the 
poore  people  of  Boxford  ffifty  pounds  to  be  layd  forth  in  a  parcell  of  land  wch  shalbe  pj  chased 
by  John  Doggett  my  brother  and  John  Brond  my  brother  in  lawe  wthin  one  yeere  after  my 
death.  1  doe  give  to  Thomas  Lappage,  my  father  in  lawe  ffyve  pounds ;  to  Mr  Joseph  Bird  the 
parson  of  Boxford  ffyve  pounds ;  and  to  Mr  Henry  Sands,  the  preacher  of  the  said  towne  ffyve 
pounds.  I  doe  give  to  my  brother  John  Doggett  ffyve  pounds,  and  to  Anne  Kent  my  sister 
ffyve  pounds,  and  to  John  Brond  my  brother  in  lawe  ffyve  pounds,  and  to  my  sister  his  wife 
ffourty  shillings  to  make  her  a  rynge,  allso  to  eu]y  one  of  my  brother  Bronds  children  ffourty 
shillings.  I  doe  give  to  the  governoures  of  the  free  sclioole  of  the  foundacon  of  the  late  good 
Queene  Elizabeth  in  Boxford  tenn  pounds.”  And  of  the  same  his  will  the  devisor  appoynted 
this  Def1  and  Thomas  Doggett  his  sonne  Executors.  But  Thomas  Doggett  relinquishinge  his 

executorshipp  this  Def*  tooke  vpon  her  thexecucon  of  the  said  will  and  made  pbate  in  the 

P^rogative  Court  of  Canterbury,  and  caused  the  estate  to  be  Inventoryed  and  apprized  in  1610 

and  1611.  She  hath  payd  many  yeeres  since  seu]  all  legacyes  by  the  said  will  bequeathed,  and 
hath  long  since  fully  administered  her  said  husband’s  jfsonall  estate,  that  came  to  her  hands,  and 
a  thousand  pounds  more  out  of  her  owne  purse.  All  wcU  matters  this  Deft  is  ready  to  averre, 
maynteyne  and  prove  as  this  Honble  Court  shall  award. 

This  answer  was  sworn  to  1 8th  April,  21  Charles  I.  and  bears  the  signature  of  Avis 

Doggett  the  deponent.  Chancery  Proceedings,  Mitford,  54,  44. 


DOGGETT  OF  GROTON. 


341 


Will  of  feint  Doggett,  1652. 

I  John  Dogett  of  London,  Mercer  and  Merchant  Adventurer  of  England,  now  and  many 
yeares  past  an  Inhabitant  in  Hamburgh  in  Germany,  beinge  att  present  infirme  in  body  yett  in 
my  perfect  vnderstandinge  doe  hereby  make  my  last  will.  I  bequeath  vnto  the  howse  of  Orphants 
in  Hamburgh  called  the  Weasen  Howse  the  sume  ef  two  hundred  and  ffifty  Marcks  Lubs,  to  bee 
paid  to  the  overseers  of  the  orphants  called  the  furstunders  of  the  Wesen  Kinderen.  To  the 
children  of  my  deceased  brother  Doggett,  and  my  sister’s  children,  to  each  ffortye  shillinges  starlinge, 
to  be  paid  in  England  by  my  executors,  viz*  to  Bridgett,  Elizabeth,  Susan,  Martha  and  Amy 
Doggett  their  children.  Vnto  my  first  borne  grandchilde  John  Taylor  all  my  Lattyne  and  Dutch 
Bookes.  The  rest  of  my  bookes  written  and  printed  to  my  sonne  John  Dogett,  who  I  doe  ordaino 
for  my  sole  executor.  One  third  part  of  my  estate  vnto  my  beloved  wife,  and  the  like  to  my 
sonne  John  Doggett,  and  one  sixth  part  to  my  daughter  Anne  the  wife  of  George  Watson,  and 
one  sixth  part  to  the  two  children  of  my  deceased  daughter  Elizabeth  late  wife  of  late  Henry 
Taylor,  viz*,  to  John  and  Francis  Taylor  beinge  orphants.  In  the  meane  time  my  executor  shall 
pay  for  the  education  and  maintenance  of  each  of  them.  This  19th  day  of  March  1652.  Proved 
the  thirtieth  June  1653  by  John  Dogett  the  executor.  P.C.C.  242  Brent. 


SStill  of  (Elizabeth  Doggett,  1655. 

I  Elizabeth  Doggett,  widdowe  of  the  late  Mr  John  Dogett,  marchant  in  Hambrough,  being 
of  great  age,  desire  that  my  goods,  may  be  in  a  iust  manner  bestowed  as  by  my  will  is  here 
specified.  I  comitt  my  Soule  into  the  hands  of  the  mercifull  God  for  the  sake  of  my  onlie 
Saviour  Jesus  Christ.  I  ordeine  my  sonne  M1'  John  Dogett  sole  executor.  I  giue  unto  my  sonne 
in  lawe  Mr  George  Watson  for  himselfe,  wife  and  ffamily  for  mourning,  fiftie  pounds.  I  giue  to 
his  wife  my  daughter  Anna  Watson  for  a  Remembrance  two  siluer  porringers  and  foure  siluer 
spoones.  I  bequeath  unto  my  said  daughter  Watson’s  children  two  hundred  pounds.  Unto  the 
children  of  my  deceased  eldest  daughter  Elizabeth  Taylor,  viz*  John  and  Francke  Taylor  each  ten 
pounds  for  mourning.  More  to  John  Taylor  a  small  siluer  Beaker  formerly  giuen  him  by  my 
sister  Margarett  and  one  hundred  pounds  (when)  he  be  twenty  foure  yeare  old.  But  in  case  he 
prove  an  vnthrifte  the  capitall  shall  remaine  in  the  hands  of  my  executor — and  John  Taylor  have 
only  the  Interest  of  six  pounds  per  annum  as  before.  I  giue  unto  my  grandchild  Francis  Taylor 
one  hundred  pounds  at  her  day  of  marriage.  But  in  case  shee  dye  before  marriage  unto  her 
brother  John.  In  case  both  theis  Orphants  should  die  before  marriadge,  the  one  hundred  pounds 
shall  be  giuen  to  the  children  of  my  sonn  John  Davies  and  the  other  one  hundred  pounds  to 
the  children  of  my  daughter  Watson.  To  Francis  Taylor  a  siluer  beaker  formerlie  giuen  to  her 
mother  by  her  godmother.  Unto  my  sonne  John  Dogett  my  sole  executor  a  siluer  salt  and  six 
siluer  spoones  and  all  monies  and  goods  of  mine  ;  and  all  things  here  or  in  England  to  be  fully 
enioyed  by  him  and  his  heirs.  And  for  the  confirmacon  hereof  I  have  subscribed  of  this  my 
will  and  testament  two  of  one  tenor,  the  one  in  Dutch,  being  in  my  owne  hands — the  other  in 
English,  left  with  my  sonne  John  Dogett  to  be  observed  according  to  the  Lawes  and  Customes 
of  England.  Actum  in  Hambrough  the  tenth  day  of  October.  1653.  This  will  was  proved  at 
Westminster  the  seaventeenth  day  of  Janry  1653  by  the  Oatlie  of  John  Dogett  the  sonne  and 
sole  Executor.  P.C.C.  320  Alehin. 


342 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Will  af  William  lagjett,  1675* 


William  Doggett  of  the  parish  of  Stepney,  co.  Midd.  Gent.  To  be  decently  buried  in 
Whitechappell  church  yard.  Lands  to  be  sold.  My  loving  sonn  John  Spering,  my  daughter 
Susanna  Spering,  my  grandchildren,  Ann,  Mary,  John  and  Roger  Spering,  their  flower  children,  at 
their  respective  ages  of  one  and  twenty  yeares.  Ynto  my  loving  sonn  Daniell  Bright,  my  daughter 
Avis  Bright,  my  grandchild  Daniell  Bright.  My  grandchild  William  Williams  when  he  comes  to 
the  age  of  ffower  and  twenty  yeares.  Ynto  my  grandchild  William  Doggett  when  out  of  his 
apprenticeshipp.  Vnto  my  two  grand  daughters  Ann  and  Mary  Doggett,  daughters  of  my  sonn 
Richard.  Vnto  my  sonns  Richard  Doggett  and  William  Doggett.  Vnto  my  sonn  Jefferson  and 
my  daughter  Ann  Jefferson.  Vnto  my  sonn  Beniamin  Doggett  and  his  children.  Vnto  the  ffower 
children  of  my  sonn  William  Doggett,  viz6  :  Mary,  Avis,  .John  and  Susanna  Doggett.  My  sonn 
Robert  Doggett.  My  loving  kinsmen  Mr  John  Doggett  merchant  and  my  loving  sonn  John  Spering 
to  be  ioynt  executors.  This  twelf  day  of  October  1675.  Memorandum.  That  I  William  Doggett 
doe  by  this  Codicill  give  to  my  executors  all  my  messuages  and  lands  in  Boxford  in  the  country 
of  Suffolk  to  sell  to  perform  my  will.  The  ffowerteenth  day  of  October  1675.  Probate  Secundo 
die  Maij  1676  juramentis  Johannis  Doggett  et  Johannis  Spering.  P.C.C.  48  Bence. 


Kingston,  Jamaica,  8th  July  1703.  Dear  Brother.  It  is  now  about  a  week  since  I  received 
two  letters  from  you,  the  one  da.ted  in  November  the  other  in  January,  in  which  I  had  one 

inclosed  from  sister  de  Bary.  I  am  just  crawld  out  of  a  very  severe  ffeaver,  and  after  that 

ffeaver  an  Ague,  which  by  the  help  of  God  and  the  Jesuits  Bark  is  gone,  but  shall  be  some 

time  before  I  recover  my  strength.  About  three  weekes  since  had  a  letter  from  your  wife 

who  has  been  sick  of  a  ffeaver  but  recovered.  (Here  follows  a  passage  in  cypher).  lie  serve  her 
in  everything  lyes  in  my  power.  And  now  I  must  tell  you  that  on  the  fourth  instant  by  the 
packett  Boat  I  received  a  letter  from  my  Brother  Otgher  with  an  account  of  my  Mother’s  death. 
When  I  consider  how  little  advantage  she  had  of  liveing  it  is  my  opinion  she  is  in  the  happier 
state  now.  I  here  send  you  a  coppy  of  part  of  the  letter  that  my  brother  Otgher  sent  me.  Pray 
take  noe  notice  of  haveing  received  any  letter  from  me — it  will  doe  me  a  diskiudness. 

“  She  has  made  me  (he  writes)  her  sole  executrix,  but  your  brother  John  has  thought  fitt  to 
enter  a  Caveat  against  my  Administring,  and  will  perhaps  make  me  spend  some  money  which  would 
have  done  you  and  others  good.  There  will  be  nothing  comeing  to  him,  and  indeed  his  circumstances 
is  very  bad.  He  hath  done  very  ill  to  come  from  his  wife  and  children  at  Carolina  to  serve  the 
Coll :  who  is  but  in  bad  circumstances  himself.  He  thinketh  to  frighten  me  by  his  rough  course, 
and  force  me  to  comply  with  him,  but  he  hath  mistaken  his  man.  Your  mother’s  estate  is  already 
by  losses  and  by  her  weakness  greatly  reduced — which  is  none  of  my  fault.  She  has  left  you  201 
for  mourning  and  -}  of  the  Residue,  you  allowing  3601  out  of  it  which  she  formerly  advanced  you. 
I  doubt  not  something  will  be  comeing  to  you  but  can  make  you  noe  dividend  till  I  have  done 
with  your  brother.  Your  brother  is  to  pay  6201  which  he  had  advanced  to  him  before  he  is  to 
have  his  }  of  the  estate.  I  am  sure  he  will  be  a  debtor  to  the  estate  and,  if  he  crosse  me,  can 
charge  him  with  more.  I  heare  he  lodgeth  in  the  Fleet,  where  he  will  have  noe  good  Councell 
given  him.  But  I  value  not  the  worst  he  can  doe.” 


DOGGETT  OF  GROTON. 


343 


The  Baggs  just  goeing  so  cannot  inlarge.  Since  we  are  all  mortall,  and  a  little  I  have  to 
expect,  I  here  tell  you  I  make  you  my  sole  executor  in  case  of  Mortality,  designing  to  make  my 
■will  and  leave  you  all  I  can  lay  claime  to.  My  service  to  honest  Tony,  and  all  friends  who  ask 
after  (me).  I  am  in  hast,  dear  Jack,  your  truely  loving  brother,  Ben.  Dogett.  To  Mr  John  Doggett. 
Probatum  decimo  quarto  Novembris,  1706,  juramento  Johanis  Dogett  fratris,  unici  executoris  in 
humodo  testamento  nominat.  Commissary  of  London,  Will  Book,  1706-7,  fo.  166. 


©Still  of  (Eli^abrtlj  Doggett,  1765. 

Elizabeth  Dogett  of  College  Hill  in  the  City  of  London,  Spinster,  9  June  1765.  Unto 
my  very  worthy  Friend  Alexander  Broughton  of  South  Carolina,  Esquire,  one  Gold  Ring  as  a 
token  of  my  Good  will  and  gratitude.  Unto  my  loving  sisters  Ann  Dogett  and  Mary  Lewin 
one  Gold  Ring  to  each  as  a  token  of  my  love.  Unto  my  brother  Benjamin  Dogett  of  the 
Parish  of  Battersea  in  the  County  of  Surry,  Gentlemen,  All  and  every  of  my  Estate  Real  and 
Personal,  whether  in  Great  Britain,  Carolina,  America,  or  in  any  part  of  the  World.  I  appoint 
my  said  dearly  beloved  Brother  Benjamin  Dogett  my  Universal  Heir  and  Sole  Executor. 

P.C.C.  46  Alexander. 

Feb.  1  :  The  will  of  Elizabeth  Dogett  formerly  of  South  Carolina  in  America,  but  late  of 
Battersea,  co.  Surry,  Spinster,  dec’d,  was  proved  by  Benjamin  Dogett  the  Brother  and  Sole  Exec. 

Probate  Act  Book,  1775. 


Doggett  Dross  in  Dosfora  CEIjnrdj. 

On  a  brass  plate  with  scroll  work  and  other  devices,  placed  between  four  separate  shields 
(the  Arms  of  the  City  of  London,  of  the  Merchant  Adventurers,  &c.)  is  the  following  inscription: — 

Here  lyeth  Willia  Doggett  Marchant  Adveterer  Citizen  and  Mercer  of  London  and  free  of 
the  East  India  Company  who  tooke  to  wife  Avis  Lappadge  ye  daught.  of  Thomas  Lappadge  of 
Boxford  wth  who  he  lyved  19  yeares  &  had  Issue  by  her  6  sohes  &  6  davghters  ye  said  Will 
depted  this  life  ye  10th  of  Octob.  1610  being  of  the  age  of  53  yeares. 


Doggrtt  pdngrrr,  Ursitation  of  Donftcm,  1665. 


John,  Doggett  of  Qrolten- 
in  Com.  Suff. 


John  Dogget  of  London,  Mercld.=j=Bliz.  Buchton  of  Hamburg. 


John  Dogget  of  London  Merck1-,  Alice,  da.  of  John  Beauchamp  of  London. 


John,  2. 


Beauchamp  Dogget,  sone  <1:  heire,  at.  6,  1665. 


— i 

Elizabeth. 


Benjamin,  3. 


344 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Jielitgtec,  ©oggett  of  Proton,  Eappage. 


Richard  Doggett,  a  wealthy  inhabitant  of= 
Groton,  co.  Suffolk,  1526.  Lay  Subsidy,  Nor¬ 
folk  (and  Suffolk )  150.257,  IS.  H.  S. 


J ohn  Doggett  of  Bures: 
St.  Mary,  co.  Suff., 
Gent.  Will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  17  Jan.  1564, 
proved  6  May  1565 ; 
lands  in  Groton,  &c. ; 
children  under  age. 


Thomas  Bacon=f=dnne  Bacon,  d.  of=  Robert  Gosnold 


William  Doggett,  the 
elder,  of  Lavenham, 
1567.  Close  Boll  9 
Eliz.,  Doggett  c.  Oder. 
Sold  lands  in  Gro¬ 
ton,  Edwardston, 
Kersey,  &c. 


of  Hessett,  co. 
Suffolk,  Gent. 
Will,  10  Mar. 
1546  ;  had  son, 
George  Bacon  of 
Hessett,  Esq. 


Rich.  Doggett,  2  wife  of  Otley  in  co.  Lappage, 
of  Robert  Gosnold.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  2d  1st  hus- 
Harl.  MS.  1560.  In  husband  ;  no  band, 
her  will,  Arch.  Suff.,  issue  by  this  mar- 
names  niece  Alice  riage.  liar l .  MS. 

Edgar  &  sister  More.  1560. 


Ann  Dog¬ 
gett,  under 
age  1564  ; 
was  Anu 
Kent  in 
1610. 


M/ 

r~ 


=Aliee  Doggett, - 
relict  of  .  .  . 
Lappage.  Ex¬ 
ecutrix  to  her 
secoud  husband. 


=William  More  of  Gro 
ton,  Gent.,  2d  hus 
band.  Will,  P.C.C 
9  Stonard,  6  Oct 
1566,  prob.  8  Mar. 
following  ;  names  his 
brother  Doggett. 


Thomas  Lappage=pAgnes,  da.  of 


of  Boxford,  Gent. 
Will,  P.C.C.  34 
Lawe,  29  Jan. 
1611;  then  nearly 
80  years  old ; 
prob.  4  May  1614. 


Thomas  Gael  of 
Edwardstone. 
S’nia,  P.C.C.  41 
Drury,  1590. 
Her  sister  mar. 
Ralph  Blois. 


- , — , - | - 1 

Ralph  Lappage,  Alice,  mar.  Robert  Robert  Lappage, : 
dead  1593,  leav-  Edgar  of  Sotterley,  devisee  of  his 
mg  issue.  co. Suff., Gent.  Her  uncleDoggett and 

—  Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  his  stepfather 

William  Lap-  is  dated  2  Julyl595;  More.  Had  lands 
page  ;  had  issue,  devisee  of  John  in  Stoke  next 
Doggett,  1564.  Nayland. 


J  ohn  Dog-- 
gett  of 
Groton, 
clothier, 
1582.  Will, 
Arch. 
Sudb., 
1619.  Fre¬ 
quently 
named  in 
Adam 
Winthrop’ s 
Diary. 


= Dorothy, 
bur.  at 
Groton,  4 
Mar.  1605. 
See  Win- 
throp’s 
Diary. 


William  Doggett  of= 
Boxford,  Gent.,  bom 
1557-  Will,  Alston  c. 
Doggett,  1610.  Inq. 
p.m.  12  Jas.  M.I.  in 
Boxford  church  ;  ob. 
10  Oct.,  8  Jas. 


Anne 
Doggett, 
bapt.  at 
Boxford, 
1592. 


Susan  Doggett, 
bapt.  at  Boxford, 
1595;  mar.  at  Gro¬ 
ton, 1617,  Mr.Rich- 
ardNorwich.  A  dam 
Winthrop’s  Diary. 


=Avice  Lappage, 
dau.  and  coh., 
mar.  at  Boxford, 
1591  ;  devisee, 
1650,  of  Chris¬ 
topher  Scarlett, 
her  son-in-law. 


Susan  Lappage,  da.  and 
coh.,  mar.  John  Brond 
of  Edwardstone,  Gent., 
who  in  his  will,  P.C.C. 
116  Cambell,  1641, 
names  many  of  his 
Doggett  kinsmen. 


Mary  Lappage,  devisee 
of  Wm.  More,  1566; 
wife  of  Thos.  Canham 
of  Assington,  1611. 

Alice  Lappage,  wife  of 
Wm.  Hayward,  1611. 


Elizabeth  Lappage,  dau. 
and  coh. ;  devisee,  1595, 
of  her  aunt  Edgar  ;  wife 
of  John  le  Gris,  clerk, 
1611.  His  will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  11  March  1629, 
prov.  21  April  following. 


Avis  Doggett,  Alice  Doggett,  bapt.  1601  ;  mar. 
bapt.  1598;  mar.  at  Boxford,  1624,  Christopher  Scar- 
at  Boxford,  1620,  lett  of  Nayland.  Will,  P.C.C.  99 
to  John  Bond  ;  Grey,  23  Sept.  1650  ;  prob.  16  May 
devisee  of  Chris-  1651.  John  Scarlett,  his  sou,  entered 
topher  Scarlett,  pedigree  in  Essex  Visitation,  1664. 
1650. 


Dorothy, 
b.  1605  ; 
youngest 
daughter 
1610;  liv¬ 
ing  1641. 


Bridget, 
bapt.  at 
Boxford, 
1606  ; 
dead  in 
1610. 


WilliamDog- 
gett,  bapt.  at 
Boxford, 
1599;  devisee 
of  his  father, 
1610. 


Thomas  Doggett  of=f=Margery,  da.  of  Wil- 


Boxford,Gent.,  bapt. 
1594,  son  and  heir. 
Joined  his  mother, 
1628,  in  sale  of  lands 
to  Robert  Gurdon, 
Esq.  Fine,  Mich.,  4 
Chas. 


liam  Clopton,  Esq., 
of  Groton;  mar.  there 
18  June  1617.  Her 
sister,  Thomasine 
Clopton,  was  2d  wife 
of  John  Winthrop, 
Go  v.  of  Massachusetts 


Lappage  Doggett, 
bapt.  at  Boxford, 
1606;  bought  lands 
in  Monks  Eleigh  of 
John  Doggett  and 
Elizabeth,  his  wife, 
1632.  Fine, Suffolk, 
Hill,  7  Chas. 


John  Doggett, bap. 
at  Boxford,  1602  ; 
living  1610.  Sup¬ 
posed  to  be  the 
John  Doggett,  who 
went  with  John 
Winthrop  to  New 
England  in  1630. 


Richard  Dog¬ 
gett  of  Had- 
leigh,  co. 
Suffolk,  bapt. 
at  Boxford, 
1608. 


:Sarah,  dau.  of  John  Le 
Gris  of  Wiston,  co. 
Suff.,  Clerk  (see  above) 
and  Elizabeth  Lappage. 
Named  1642  in  the  will 
of  Elizabeth  Le  Gris, 
her  mother,  P.C.C.  4 
Fines,  1642. 


William  Doggett,  bapt.  at  Groton,  1618; 
named  in  John  Brond's  will,  1641. 


Richard  Doggett,  named  in  will  of 
his  grandmother,  Le  Gris,  1642. 


Avis  Doggett,  1642. 


ElizabethDoggett, 

1642. 


John  Doggett,  bapt.=j=Elizabeth,  da.  of 


at  Groton,  1582  ;  be¬ 
yond  the  seas,  1619 ; 
a  Hamburg  Mer¬ 
chant.  Will  1653. 


Buchton  of  Hamburg. 
Her  will,  P.C.C.  320 
Alehin,  10  Oct.  1653  ; 
prob.  1 7  Jan.  following. 


Benjamin  Doggett, of=j=Susan, dau. of  Rich. 


Assington,  co.  Suff. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  19 
Aug.  1647  ;  had  sou, 


Munnings  Doggett.  sj/ Harvey,  1638. 


Monings  of  Stoke 
next  Nayland.  His 
will,  P.C.C.  48 


- I — i - 

Bridget,  wife  of 
Francis  Cooper, 
1619.  — 

Susan,  wife  of 
LouisKidby,!  6 1 9. 


- 1 — i - 

Amy  Doggett, not 
yet  14  in  1619. 

Martha,  wife  of 
.  .  .  Flack, 1619. 


— i — i — i — i 

Elizabeth, 
Joseph,  Abra¬ 
ham  &  Ben¬ 
jamin,  bapt. 
at  Groton. 


John  Doggett  of  London, : 
Esq.,  entered  pedigree  in 
theVisitation,1665.  Will, 
P.C.C.  46  Bath,  26  Dec. 
1679  ;  prov.  6  April  1680. 
H 


= Alice,  dau.  and  devisee  of 
John  Beauchamp  of  Rei- 
gate,  co.  Surrey,  Esq.,  6 
June  1653,  when  he  made 
will,  P.C.C.  107  Aylett. 


Richard, named,  1632, 
in  the  will  of  Thomas 
Bladwell  of  London, 
merchant,  his  uncle, 
P.C.C.  320  Alehin. 


Thomas, 
named,  1632, 
in  Thomas 
Bladwell’s 
will. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of 
HenryTaylor ;  dead  in 
1653  ;  had  sons  John 
and  Francis  Taylor. 


Anne,  wife  of  Mr. 
George  Watson, 
having  issue,  1679, 
Esther,  wife  of  Hugh 
Norris. 


Beauchamp 
Doggett,  son 
and  heir,  aged 
6  in  1665. 


John  Doggett,  2d  son  in  1665, 
of  Carolina  in  America,  1703, 
where  he  had  a  wife  and 
children,  but  then  “  lodging  in 
the  Fleet  ”  and  very  poor. 


Benjamin  Doggett,  3d  son  in  1665, 
of  London,  Merchant.  Died  at  Kings¬ 
ton,  Jamaica.  Will,  Comiss.  Lond.,  8 
July  1703,  proved  14  Nov.  1706  by  John 
Doggett,  his  brother,  exor.  and  heir. 


- 1 - ; - — — I 

Alice,  wife  of  David 
De  Bary,  1699  ; 
named,  1703,  in  the 
will  of  BenjaminDog- 
gett,  her  brother. 


Elizabeth,  wife  of  Mr.  Justus 
Otgher  of  London,  merchant, 
1679.  Mar.  lie.,  20  Dec.  1671. 
Had  dau.,  Katherine,  wife  of 
David  Longuemantle,  1699. 


Brurj*  of  Jlougtjam. 


Armorial  Scarings. 

The  Arms,  which  accompany  the  earlier  pedigrees  of  Drury,  as  for  example  in  Harl.  MS. 
891,  are  Quarterly,  1  and  4,  Drury ;  2,  Freysell  ;  3,  Saxham.  Later  on,  as  the  heiresses  they 
married  added  their  shields  to  the  family  escutcheon,  the  Drury  quarterings  became  considerably 
augmented.  The  Drurys  of  Sussex,  who  claimed  descent  from  Thomas  Drury  of  Rougham,  1473, 
and  Catherine  Whitwell,  his  wife,  bore  Quarterly  of  Eight ;  1  and  8,  Drury ;  2,  Saxham  ;  3, 
Freysell  ;  4,  Gedding ;  5,  Naunton  ;  6,  Aspall ;  and  7,  Whitwell.  The  Arms  upon  the  monument 
in  Rougham  chancel  to  the  memory  of  Sir  Robert  Drury,  who  died  early  in  the  reign  of  Charles 
the  First,  agree  substantially  with  those  allowed  to  Robert  Drury  of  Tendring,  a  descendant  of 

the  Rougham  family,  at  the  Essex  Visitation  of  1664,  a  tricking  of  which  appears  in  Harl.  MS. 

1085,  and  in  the  corresponding  MS.  at  the  College  of  Arms.  (See  the  edition  of  Bysshe’s 
Visitation  of  that  County,  edited  by  Dr.  J.  J.  Howard,  Maltravers  Herald.)  They  are  as  follows  : — 

Arms. — Quarterly  of  10;  a  mullet  for  difference: — 

1,  Drury,  Argent,  on  a  chief  Vert,  two  mullets  Or,  pierced  Gules. 

2,  Saxham,  Argent,  six  cross  crosslets  fitchee  Gules,  3,  2  and  1,  a  chief  dancettee  Azure. 

3,  Freysell,  Sable,  six  cinquefoils  Argent,  3,  2  and  1. 

4,  Gedding,  Chequy,  Argent  and  Gules,  on  a  fess  Azure,  three  round  buckles  Or,  tongues 

fessways  to  the  dexter  side. 

5,  Naunton,  Sable,  three  martlets  Argent. 

6,  Aspale,  Azure,  three  chevronels  Or. 

7,  Whitwell,  Gules,  a  fess  chequy  Argent  and  Sable,  between  three  pairs  of  annulets 

interlaced  Or. 

8,  Liston,  Vert,  ten  bezants,  3,  3,  3  and  1. 

9,  Carbonell,  Gules,  a  cross  Argent  within  a  bordure  engrailed  Or. 

10,  Bovill,  Quarterly,  Or  and  Sable. 

Crest. — A  greyhound  courant  Argent,  collared  and  ringed  Or.  Below  this  monument  is 
another  representing  a  woman  in  a  winding  sheet,  with  Drury  impaling  Sable,  two  bars  embattled 

and  counter-embattled  Argent,  and  in  chief  three  plates,  apparently  for  Barnes  of  Cambridgeshire. 

As  is  well-known  to  genealogists,  the  Drurys  of  Hawstead,  who  descend  from  a  younger  brother 
of  the  Drurys  of  Rougham,  added  a  Tau  cross  to  the  mullets  on  the  chief  in  the  family  arms, 
a  fact  which  has  given  rise  to  many  ingenious  conjectures.  See  “  East  Anglian  Notes  and 
Queries,”  1858,  &c.,  Vol.  I,  pp.  12,  18,  and  Vol,  III.,  p.  214. 

The  descents  which  follow  are  based  for  the  most  part  upon  the  fine  Drury  pedigrees,  now 
in  the  possession  of  Sir  Hereward  Wake  and  of  F.  S.  E.  Drury,  Esq.,  which  were  compiled  in 
1612  by  Thomas  Drury  of  Rougham,  and  used  by  Sir  John  Cullum  in  the  preparation  of  his 
“  History  of  Hawstead.”  Valuable  additions  have  been  made  from  the  Drury  pedigrees  in 
Add.  MS.  5523,  which  are  annotated  by  Le  Neve,  and  in  Harl.  MS.  6071,  which  were  written 
by  Matthias  Candler,  a  Suffolk  contemporary  of  many  of  the  later  members  of  the  family. 

2  V 


346 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


©rurj)  of  Cfturston, 


5523. 


A  deade  wt  oiot  date  in  ivhich  is  declared  that 
Richard  ye  sonne  of  William  le  elder  de  la 
greene  of  Thurston  sold  wt  warrant  for  a 
somme  of  money  Certeyn  lands  beinge  in 
Church  fdde  to  John  Drury,  sonne  of  John 
and  Lord  Henry  his  sonne  and  to  there  heirs 
Reserueing  Id  q}  yearely  to  him  and  his  heirs 
for  all  Seruics.  Ranee  Date. 

Adam,  the  sonne  of  Richard  Russell  of  Thur¬ 
ston,  sold  land  in  Thurston  to  Henry  Drury 
and  his  heirs  for  yearely  Rent. 

Roger  Bryme  of  Rowgham  solde  Lande  and 
mesuages  in  Rowgham  to  Henry,  sonne  of 
John  Drury  of  Thurston,  and  there  by  it 
appeareth  that  Roger  was  Brother  to  Henry 
Drury. 


Drury,  a  nobleman  of  Normandy  came=f= 
in  to  England  wt  King  William  Con¬ 
queror.  “  The  name  signifieth  a  pretious 
Jewell.”  Harl.  MS.  6071.  Blois. 

I - 1 

John  Drury  of  Thurston  in  Com.  Suffolke ,=j= 
esquire ,  sonne  and  heire. 

i - 1 

John  Drury  of  Thurston  in  Com.  Suff dike, =\ f= 
esquier,  sonne  and  heire  as  in  Auncient  I 
weightings  Sance  Date  is  Euident. 

I - 1 

Henry  Drury  of  Thurston,  esqr,  sonne=f 
and  heire. 

r - J 


John  Drury  of=f 
ThurstoninCom. 
Suffolke,  esquire, 
sonne  and  heire. 

_ 


John  Geddinge  of- p 
Geddinge  in  Com. 
Suffolke,  tempore 
Edward  first. 


A  Deede  wt  oiot  date  where  in  is  expressed  that  Richard 
sonne  of  John  Le  Palmer  of  Thurston  solde  with  warrant 
for  a  somme  of  Money  Certeyne  lands  in  Thurston 
feild  vnto  John  Drury  of  the  same  Towne  and  to  his 
heirs  <0  to  holde  by  the  tenure  of  ld  qt,  at  the  feasts  of 
St  Michaell  for  all  Seruices  and  Demannds. 

Charta  sine  dat  : 

Adam  sone  of  Haydon  of  Stowe  and  of  Thurston,  sould 
Lande  to  Henry  Drury,  sonne  of  John  Drury,  called  of 
Thurston,  sonne  of  Henry,  and  to  his  heires  by  Rente 
of  ld  21  of  Kinge  Edward  first,  a°  1292. 

Emma  de  la  hid,  wydow,  solde  a  . .  .  Mesuage  to 
Henry  of  Thurston  and  to  Hauys  his  wyfe  the  Longer 
Inter  and  to  Alee  there  Daughter  by  this  tenure  for  a 
pare  of  Giltc  spurres  or  vid  in  monye  for  all  Seruis 
and  Demawnds. 


Roger  Drury  of  Thurston  in 
Suffolke,  2d  sonne,  obijt  sine 
ply  mar:  Cecylie,  Daughter  of 
John  Repence.  Ar.  Gules  a  bend 
and  Labell  of  3  Poyntes  or. 


Henry  Drury=f=Hauys,  dauyh.  of  Richard — “  Cicilia  filia  Johis 


of  Thurston  in 
Com.  Suffolke, 
esquier,  sonne 
and  heire. 


Greene  of  Darkwaye  in  Suf¬ 
folke  (Uertf  qre )  Attorney. 
Azure  3  Buckes  trippant  or,  a 
^  eode.  Richard  at  Greene. 


lteyner  de  Thurston, 
2d  eius  vxor,  s.p.” 
Candler.  “  Ccociliam 
Reincon.”  Blois. 
Cecile  Renire.  Wake. 


Catherin,  ddest- 
daugh.  <Ss  Cohr. 
mar.toSr  Rich¬ 
ard  Freyzell  of 
Suffolke  Knight. 


Nigell  Drury,  2d 
sonne,  Shrive  of 
London,  a°  d’ni  the 
first  of  Kinge  Edw. 
2d  1307.  Edmuud 
Drury  his  son  and 
heir,  1334. 


Roger  Drury,  3  sonne, 
psonne  of  Bradfeilde 
and  Lord  of  the  same 
manner  the  Remayneth 
in  that  famylie  to  this 
daye. 


Mawde,  vnmar. 

Alice,  mar.  to 
William  Swet- 
inge  of  Suffolke, 


John  Drury  of  Thur-~- 
ston,  in  Com.  Suffolke, 
Esquier,  sonne  and  heire 
tempore  Kinge  Edward 
first,  19,  1291. 


■Amabell  daugh.  of 
Thomas  Newton, 
Esquier.  Sables, 
too  shanke  bones  in 
Salter  argente. 


Jayne,  2d  daugh. 
and  coheir e,  mar.  to 
Thomas  Ickworth  of 
Ickworth  in  Com. 
Suffolke,  Esquier.  sj/ 


Sr  Symond=f=Agnes, 


Saxham  of 
Thurston  in 
Com.  Suffolk, 
Knight. 


daugh¬ 
ter  and 
sole 
heire. 


Sr  Roger  Drury,  Kt  of  Rougham, 
his  will  dated  1420.  To  be  buried 
in  Rougham  church:  will  p’ved 
2b  Oct.  same  yr  :  he  bequeaths 
to  each  of  the  churches  of  Rougham 
Thurston,  Baketon,  Tostock, 
Drynkeston,  Heggesete  et  Berton. 
Register,  Hyrning,  pk  2,  fol.  72a 
in  the  bishop’s  office  at  Norwich. 


Sr  Roger , 
Drury,  Clarke 
and  Parson  of 
Bawton  in 
Suffolke,  ivhoe 
liued  ye  13  of 
Kinge  Edward 
3d  a°  d’ni 
1340. 


Nicholas  Drury=j=Agnes,  sole 
daughter 
and  heire 
of  Sr  Sy- 
mond  Sax- 
ham,  Kt. 
Joane  qr. 
Joan  in  his 
will.  Out¬ 
turn. 


of  Thurston  in 
Com.  Suffolke, 
esquier,  sonne 
tfc  heire,  died 
ye  13  of  Kinge 
Edw.  3d  a° 
1339?  Will  7 
Rich.  2,  1384. 
Cullum. 


L 


*This  Nicholas  and  Thom  Heathe  for  the  loue  of  John  A  Gaunte 
theire  Captayne  they  tooke  their  voyage  wt  him  into  Spayne  and 
theye  haue  assumed  to  them  Sellefs  the  Crosse  Tawe  in  the  Cheffe 
of  there  Armcs  euer  since  that  tyme  for  the  Howse  of  Hawsted. 
Whilsle  he  Florished  at  Thurston  in  the  Aunciente  howse  of 
Saxhams,  which  lande  wt  others  Came  by  his  Mother  beinge  heire 
to  her  father  to  him  allso  did  desende  the  Mannorr  of  Hawsted 
wt  others  :  he  lyeth  Buryed  w(  his  wyfe  in  Thurston  Church  in  a 
Chapell  ouer  aganst  his  fathers  chap:  where  his  4  rmes  doeth 
appeare  ivt  his  Crosse  Tauy.  See  below,  Nicholas  Drury. 


Sr  Roger  Drury  of  Chauente  in  Rowgh.=^ Margarett,  daugh. 


in  Com.  Suffolke,  Knight  in  Right  of 
his  wyfe,  sonne  and  heire,  obijt  8th  0f 
K.  Henry  o,  a»  1419.  Fines  div.  Com. 
6  //.  4 ■  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  Harl. 
MS.  10,  fo.  226,  proved  24  Oct.  1420. 


and  sole  heire  of  Sr 
Thomas  Naunton  of 
Chauente  inRougham, 
Kt,  4  H-  6,  1425. 
Gent.  Mag.  1813. 


*  Nicholas  Drury  of  Saxham’ s  in- 
Thurston  in  Suffolke,  2d  sonne, 
cfc  of  Hawsted,  buried  with  his 
wife.  Will,  Gage,  p.  428,  Arch. 

Sudb.,  4  Jan.  1454,  proved  2 
Sept.  1456.  See  note  above. 

Drury  of  Hawstead, 


Joanne,  daugh. 
to  Thomas 
Heathe,  esquier, 
of  Mildenhall. 


John  Drury  of  Wether- 
clen  in  Com.  Suffolke,  Gent: 
3  sonne.  =j= 

1 - ' 

Roger  Drury.  This  family 
continued  at  Wetherden 
many  years.  Wake. 


TTI - 

Margery  and  Joan, 


named  m 
father’s  will. 


their 


Elizabeth,  4tli  dan. 
mar.  John  Baret  of 
Bury.  See  his  will, 
1463.  Bury  Wills, 
Camden  Soc. 


- i — i - 

Roger,  2d 
sonne,  obijt 
sine  Ply. 

Nicholas 
Drury,  3  s. 
WillatLam- 
beth,  1445. 


George 
Drury, 
first 
sonne, 
died 
before 
his 

father, 
sine  Ply.  Two  daus. 


ThomasDrury 
of  Candellers 
in  Hedgesctt 
in  Com.  Suff: 
5th  son.  Will 
4  July  1444. 
Harl.  MS. 
639. 


Margarett,  mar.  to  Sr 
William  Clopton,  Knight, 
the  first  at  Melford. 
She  was  his  2d  wyfe : 
She  obijt  9  of  K.  H.  5th 
a«  1429,  buryed  at  Mel¬ 
ford.  See  Clopton  of 
Melford,  p.  142. 


Sr  William  Drury  of  Rowg¬ 
ham  in  Com.Suffolke,  Knight, 
sonne  heire,  liued  in  14 
yeare  of  K.  Henry  6  :  a°  d’ni 
1435  :  obijt  28:  of  H:  6, 1449. 

Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  10 
June  1450,  proved  27  June 
1450.  Harl.  MS.  10,  fo.  112 .-^/Lancaster 
Drury  of  Rougham. 


-Katherin,  Daughter  of  Sr 
Hughe  ( Otes )  Swynforde, 
Knight,  and  of  Catherin, 
his  wyfe,  dau.  of  Payne 
Roicett  als.  Gwyan  Kinge 
of  Armes  :  she  after  mar: 
to  John  Gwant,  Duke  of 
This  false. t 


William. 


John. 


Thomas. 


Walter. 


Alice. 


— ( - 

Joan. 


Margery. 


— 1 

Agnes. 


t  In  Thorndon  Church,  Suff.,  in  the  chancell  on  a  stone,  is  the  portraiture  of  a  woeman  above  whose  head  are  these  arms  per 
pale  fiance  and  Ingland  qHerly  a  labell  of  3  poynts  and  azure  a  chevron  charged  with  three  boars’  heads  coupd,  about  the 
arms  these  words,  these  be  the  arms  of  dame  Katherine  Swinford,  sometime  dutchess  of  Lane  that  by  Sr  Will  Swinford  had  Sr  2’homas 
S:  Kt,  father  to  Dame  Katerine,  wife  to  Sr  William  Drury,  Kk 


DRURY  OF  ROUGHAM. 


347 


Jirurg  of  liougljam. 


Sir  William  Drury  of  Rougham  in  Suffolk,  son  and  heir=f=Catherine,  dau.  of  Sir  Thomas  Swyuford,  son  of  Sir  Otes  Swyuford  and 
of  Sir  Roger  Drury  and  Margaret  Naunton  (see  page  346).  I  of  Catherine,  liis  wife,  dau.  of  Sir  Payn  Roet,  Guyenne  King  of  Arms, 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  10  June  1450  ( Uarl .  MS.  10)  |  who  after  mar.  in  1396  John  of  Gaunt,  Duke  of  Lancaster.  The  Inq. 
prob.  27  June  1450  and  24  Dec.  1476.  |  p.m.  of  Catherine  Drury  was  taken  19  E.  4,  anno  1479. 


Thomas  Drury  of  Rougham, =f=Catherine,  dau.  aud 


Esq.,  son  and  heir  to  his  mother; 
aged  50  in  1479.  Inq.  p.m.,  3 
H.  7,  anno  1487. 


coh.  of  John  Whit- 
well  of  Suffolk. 


- — , - 

Roger  Drury, 
2d  son,  died 
s.p. 


George  Drury,  3d 
son,  Pai'son  of 
Woolpit  in  Suf¬ 
folk. 


- 1 — i - 

Catherine 
and  Anne 
were  nuns. 


Mary,  mar.  Edward  Grim- 
stone  of  Rishangles,  Esq. 
She  was  bur.  at  Thorndon, 
6  March  1469. 


John  Drury  of  Rougham,1 
Esq.,  son  and  heir  ;  aged 
31  in  1487.  Inq.  p.m.  14 
H.  7,  anno  1499. 


:Margaret,  dau.  of  William 
Felton  als.  Chapman  of  Sud¬ 
bury,  Gent.,  who  made  Will, 
P.C.C.  81  Vox,  3  Dec.  1493. 


Catherine,  mar. 
RobertRokewood 
of  Thetford. 


Elizabeth, 
mar.  to 
Thomas 
Traas. 


- , - 

Anne, 

died 

young. 


Clement  Drury  of  Shropsliire,  2d  son,  mar. 
Sarah,  dau.  of  Peter  Rowton.  =p 

\L" 

Drury  of  Sussex. 


Elis.,  d.  <£•— John  Drury  =pElizabeth,  dau.  of  JohnGolding- 


T 


coh.  of  Rob¬ 
ert  Liston, 
2  wife. 
Visit.  1612, 
but  this 
doubtful. 

I — 

Robert=f 
Drury  of 
Rougham, 
Gent.,  ob. 
vita  patris. 


of  Rougham, 
Esq.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  prov. 
1556.  Inq. 
p.m. 


ham  of  Belstead,  by  Thomasine, 
dau.  and  coh.  of  Robert  Liston, 
Esq.,  who  made  will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  1484.  See  Inq.  p.m. 
of  Isabel  Liston,  his  widow,  7  H. 
7,  and  her  will  in  Harl.  MS.  10. 


Francis  Drury,  2d 

Alice, 

Elizabeth, 

sou,  mar.  Elizabeth, 

died 

mar.  Fulk 

dau.  and  heir  of  Sir 

unm. 

Grey.  A 

Robert  Daye  of 

Will, 

quo  Grey  of 

Swarston  in  Norfolk. 

1534, 

Carbrook 

Their  son,  John  D., 

Sudb. 

in  Norfolk. 

ob.  s.p. 

Shed.  1555. 

Dorothy,  mar.  1  Edmund 
West  of  Weston,  Gent., 
who  made  will,  P.C.C. 
11  Thower,  1529.  She 
renupt.  Robert  Downes, 
of  Melton,  Esq. 


-Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Thos. 
Tay  of  Layer  de  la 
Hay,  co.  Essex.  She 
renupt.  Edmund  Good¬ 
win  of  Thurston.  Blois 
and  Norfolk  Visit., 
Harl.  Soc. 


John  Drury  of=j=Eleanor,da. 
Godwick  and  of  of  Thomas 
Eaton,  co.  Norff.,  Sydney  of 
2d  son,  devisee  of  Walsing- 
Robt.Goldingham,  ham. 
his  uncle,  1547. 

Drury  of  Docking. 


William  Drury, =j=Marjr, da. 


LL.D.,  3d  son, 
Judge  of  the  Pre¬ 
rogative  Court.  He 
made  will  1589. 


of  Sir 
Richard 
South- 
well. 


- 1 — i - ; 

Anne,  w.  of  Francis 
Bacon,  who  made  will, 
P.C.C.  lOSheffield, 1569, 
s,  of  Thos.  Bacon  of 
Hessett. 


Drury  of  Tendring.  William,  6  E.  6. 


Mary,  mar. 
Edward 
Page  of 
Framling- 
ham,  Har¬ 
binger  to  Q. 
Elizabeth. 


Sir  Robert  Drury  of  Rougham, = 
son  and  heir  ;  Knighted  1603; 
heir  to  his  grandfather  inl556, 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  22  Nov. 
1624  ;  prob.  10  Jan.  1625. 
Inq.  p.m.  1  Car.  M.I.  in 
Rougham  chancel.  Ob.  ret.  82. 


EdmundDrury  of  Rougham, 
Gent.,  2d  son,  b.  1576.  Will, 
P.C.C.  124  Cope,  2  Dec.  14 
Jas.  ;  prob.  5  Dec.  1616,  to 
John  Drury,  his  brother. 
Ob.  s.p.,  vita  patris. 


:Elizabeth,  youngest  dau.  of  Robert,  2d 
Sir  William  Drury  of  Haw-  son,  and 
stead,  who  bought  his  ward-  Elizabeth, 
ship  before  1557 ;  made  will,  died  young. 
P.C.C.  16  Nodes,  1557. 

Bur.  in  Rougham  chancel. 

Ob.  1621.  M.I. 


John=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Hamon=j=. 
Drury,  Claxton  of  Norwich,  Esq., 

2d  son,  who  made  will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Camden.  Norw.,  7  June  1592.  Her 
Of  mother’s  will,  Cur.  Ep.  < 

Rougham.  N.,  1604,  17  May.  \|/ 


.  Ward,  2d 
husband  (1),  by 
whom  a  son,  Ha- 
mon  Ward.  Harl. 
MS.  1476. 


Thomas  Drury  of  Rougham,  William,  Francis 

Esq.,  4th  son,  b.  1581.  Will,  born  Drury, 

P.C.C.  80  Cope,  4  July  1574, and  born 

1616.  Made  great  Drury  others,  1584. 

pedigree  still  extant.  Ob.  d.  young.  Blois. 

s.p.  vita  patris. 


Dorothy,  mar.  Sir  John 
Pretyman  of  Bacton,  Kt. 
His  2d  wife  wasMary,dau. 
of  Wm.  Bourchier  of 
Barnesley,  co.  Glouc. 


Elizabeth,  mar. 
Wm.  Playne  of 
Preston,  co.  Suff., 
Gent.,  son  of 
Apollo  Playne. 


Robert=p Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Charles 


Drury  of 
Rougham, 
Esq.,  son 
&  heir.  Ob. 
vita  patris, 
anno  1623. 


r~ 1 - 

William 
Drury, 
born  1599. 

Robert  and 
Susan,  died 
young. 


Croftes  of  Bard  well,  Esq., 
who  made  will,  Arch. 
Sudb.,  26  June  1616. 
Thomasine  Croftes,  her 
mother,  made  will,  15  Jas. 


Dorothy,  dau.  of: 
Edward  Barnes  of 
Soham,  co.  Carnb., 
Esq.  Monument 
in  Rougham  chan¬ 
cel. 


John  Drury,  Counsellor-at-Law,  b.  1580  ;  exor. 
to  his  brothers  Edmund,  Thomas  and  Clement 
Drury.  Placed  monument  in  Rougham  chancel 
to  his  parents.  Will.  P.C.C.  255  Aylett,  19  Aug. 
1650.  proved  19  Feb.  1654.  M.I.  in  Ashwicken 
church,  Norfolk.  East  Ang.  Ill,  320.  See 
si /Blomefeld. 

Drury  of  Lezlate. 


Clement  Drury,  6th=f=Mar- 


son,  b.  1585,  of 
Rougham,  Gent. 
Will,  Arch.  Subd., 
Jan.  1623,  proved  13 
April  1624.  Ob.  vita 
patris. 


garet. 


I — 


Dorothy,  mar . Clarke.  Blois.  Candler.  Winifred,  s.p.  Candler.  Elizabeth.  Cecilia,  bapt.  at  Rougham,  1621. 


Charles  Drury  of= 
Rougham,  Esq., 
heir  to  his  grand¬ 
father, 1624.  Will, 
Arch. Sudb.,  2 Dec. 
1633,  and  P.C.C. 
6  Seager,  prob.  2 
Jan.  following. 


=Sarah,  da.  and  coh. 
of  Henry  Seckford, 
Esq.  She  renupt. 
at  Kirtling,  co. 
Camb.,  John,  2d 
son  ofDudley,Lord 
North,  Baron  Kirt¬ 
ling,  20  July  1634. 


Roger  Drury,  Esq., 
uncle  and  heir  to 
Seckford  Drury  in 
1634.  Inq.  p.m.  10 
Car.  Ob.  infra  set. 
s.p.,  11  July  10 
Car.,  “  correptus  a 
variolis.  Candler. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  1622=p  Cicely, m.George 


Seckford  Drury,  Esq.,  son  and  heir  ;  died 
s.p.  29  March  1634.  Inq.  p.m.  10  Car., 
Roger  Drury,  his  uncle,  being  next  heir. 


Dorothy,  named  in 
her  father’s  will.  Ob. 
s.p.,  1634. 


William  Wells,  Rector  of 
Rougham,  who  made 
Will,  P.C.C.  50  Pile, 
1635  ;  Lord  of  the  M. 
of  ShimplingThorn.  He 
m.  2d  Anne,  sister  of 
Joseph  Alston,  Gent, 
r 


Douglas,  D.D. 
Rector  of  Step¬ 
ney,  coh.  10  Car. 
to  her  brother, 
Roger  Drury  ; 
then  ret.  21  and 


Anne,  m.  Chas. 
Alexander,  young¬ 
est  son  to  . .  .  Earl 
of  Sterling;  coh.  to 
her  brother  10  Car. 
and  then  not  yet 
married,  and  then 
set.  19  years. 


Robert  Wells,  son  and  heir,  coheir  to  the  Rougham 
estates  on  death  of  Roger  Drury,  his  uncle,  then  ret. 
11  years.  Inherited  Rougham  Hall. 

2  v2 


348 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


®rurg 


of  busses. 


Thomas  Drury  of  Rougham  in=^Catherin,  cl.  <£  coheire  of  John  Wetwell 
Com.  Serf.  esqr  38  H.  6.  Harl.  A  after  her  sister’s  deth  sole  heire.  Harl. 

MS.  1562.  P.  mort.  Jenettce  alterice 
sororis.  Candler.  Inq.  p.m.  19  Edw.  IV. 


MS.  1562,  Visitation  of  Sussex, 
1634.  Ob.  IS  Edw.  4th  1473. 
Add.  MS.  5523. 


1.  John  Drury  of  Rougham.  Vide 
Suffolk.  Harl.  MS.  1562.  Obijt  14  of 
K.  H.  7th  149s.  Add.  MS.  5523. 


2.  Clement  Drury  was  a  feoffee  in- 
Sundry  deeds  temp.  E.  4  &  went  into 
Sallop. 


Susan,  cl.  of  Peeter  Rowton  of 
in  Com.  Suffolk,  esqr. 


John  Drury  of  Sallop ,  sonn  A  heire  of  Clement: 


Will’m  Drury  of  Sallop.  - 


Humffrey  Drury :  held  lands  in  Stoke,  co.  Salop,  circa  1577.= 
Drury  c.  Hurdeman,  Eliz.,  B.  &  A.,  DD.,  9,  19. 


d.  of 


Higgenson. 


J olm  Drury  of  Pulburgh  in  Com.  Sussex,  docter  of  law,  one  of Allice,  d.  of  John  Apesley  of 


the  M.  of  the  Chancery  A  high  Commission.  Will,  P.C.C.  65 
Lawe,  4  June  1614,  proved  9  June  following.* 


Pulburgh  in  Com.  Sussex. 
ter  of  Sir  Allen  Apsley. 


Sis- 


Thomas  Pay  mar.  Anne,  daur.  of 
Hum  fry  Drury  of  Wen  in  Com. 
Salopice.  Harl.  MS.  6164,  fo.  39. 


tt 


1.  Willm.  Drury  of= 
Watergate  neare  Chi¬ 
chester  A-  of  the  privy 
Chamber  sworne  in 
March  1625.  Will, 
P.C.C.  103  Twisse, 

5  Jan.  1643,  proved 
11  July  1646. 

-Catherin, 
d. of  John 
Cowper  of 
Ditcham 
in  Com. 
Sussex. 

Anne  dyed 
an  infant. 

A  daughter 
borne  in 
A»»  1602. 

Jane,  ob.  s.p.  Will,  P.C.C. 

86  Ridley,  31  March 
1629  ;  prob.  6  Oct.  fol¬ 
lowing. 

Mary,  wife  of  Herbert 
Boord,  1629,  and  had 
issue  ;  living  1658. 

2.  Henery Drury, 
ob.  s.p.  Will, 
P.C.C.  15  Awd- 
ley,  7  Nov.  1631, 
prob.  22  Feb. 
following. 

John.  Dallaway. 

f  ranees, 
of  Lind- 
field, 
Sussex, 
D.C.L. 
Admon. 
11  June 
1658. 

3.  Thomas  Drury, 
1614-=Susan, 
widdow  of  Sr  George 
Gunter  of  .  .  . 
in  Com.  Sussex,  K^t 
A  d.  of  .  .  .  Bui- 
len. 

1, 

frauds  Drury  of  Trinity  Colledg= 
in  Oxford,  19  yeere  old  1634 • 
Dead  11  July  1646. 

^Elizabeth,  his  relict,  ad-  2.  Thomas, 
ministered  the  will  of  her  Fellow  of 
father-in-law,  1646.  Corpus,  1648 

T  T 

3.  William.  If. 

Christophe. 

~T~  ~1 

Susan.  5%  Charles. 

I  Jane  Drury  doe  make  my  last  will  in  manner  following.  First  I  give  my  soule  to  god  and  my  bodie  to  be 
buried  in  the  Church  of  Pulborough.  Vnto  my  nephew  Francis  Drury,  the  sonne  of  my  brother  William,  the  some 
of  one  thousand  pounds,  And  if  he  shall  die  before  hee  shall  come  to  the  age  of  xxi  yeares,  it  shall  be  paid  to  the 
next  heire  of  my  said  brother.  The  vse  of  the  said  some  slialbe  imploied  towards  the  edvcac’on  of  my  said  nephew. 

I  give  to  my  loving  Aunte,  the  Lady  Apsley,  fiftie  pounds  to  buie  her  a  Juell.  To  my  Cosin,  Peter  Apsley,  fortie 

pounds  to  buie  him  a  ringe.  To  my  coseu,  Joyce  Blount,  tenn  poundes  to  buie  her  a  ringe.  To  my  cosen  Lucy 

Apsley  a  pearle  chaine  of  my  owne.  I  give  to  my  foure  brothers  v’  a  peece.  I  will  that  my  cosen,  John  Apsley, 

and  my  cosen  Laurence  Pay,  shall  have  the  putting  out  of  the  thousand  pounds  given  to  my  nephew  Francis 
Drury,  till  hee  come  to  the  age  of  one  and  twenty,  and  in  the  meauetime  shall  take  care  for  his  educac’on  and 
bringing  vpp.  And  also  shall  have  the  disposing  of  the  fiftie  poundes  wcl1  I  give  to  my  goddaughter  aud  ueeee 
Susanna  Drury,  my  brother  William’s  daughter.  To  my  said  cosen,  John  Apsley,  for  his  paines  xx'.  To  my  cosen 
Laurence  Pay,  my  silver  bason  and  x1  to  buie  an  ewer  to  it.  To  the  poore  people  of  Pulborough  x1.  To  my 
godson  George  Boord  100’.  The  rest  of  my  goodes  I  give  to  my  deere  sister  Mrs  Mary  Boord  whom  I  make, 
together  with  her  husband  Mr  Harbert  Boord,  my  sole  and  whole  executors.  The  last  day  of  March,  1629. 
Probatum  sexto  die  Octobris,  1629.  Juramento  Marie  Boord  et  Harberti  Boord.  P.C.C.  86  Ridley. 

*  John  Drury  of  Pulborough,  son  of  Humphrey  of  Salop,  took  his  degree  of  B.C.L.  Oxford,  1578,  and  of  D.C.L., 
17  March  1584-5.  He  was  appointed  Canon  of  Chichester,  1582,  Rector  of  Pulborough,  1589,  Rector  of  Witney, 
Oxon,  and  Archdeacon  of  Oxford,  1592.  His  Arms  and  quarterings,  as  indicated  on  page  345,  were  those  of  Drury  of 
Rougham,  with  a  crescent  for  difference.  His  Crest  was  a  greyhound  courant  Sable,  collared  Or.  Harl.  MS.  1562. 


DRURY  OP  ROUGHAM. 


349 


Drurj)  of  Centring  anti  of  Docfuitg. 


John  Drury  of  Rougham  in  com. ^Elizabeth,  daugh.  to  John  Goldinge  of  Halsled  in  Com.  Essex, 


Suffolke,  esquier,  obijt  the  first  of  Q. 
Ma.  1553.  Harl.  MS.  6065.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  3  Edw.  6,  proved 
1556.  Inq.  p.m.,  3  &  4  P.  &  M. 


esquier.  Of  John  Goldingham  of  Belstead,  co.  Suffolk,  by 
Thomasine,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Robert  Lyston,  Esq.  See  the  Inq. 
p.m.,  7  H.  7,  and  the  will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  Harl.  MS.,  10,  of 
Isabel  Lyston,  her  mother. 


John  Drury=f=Ellinor,da.  William  Drury  of  Brett  shall  in  the^Mary,  daugh.  to  Sr  Rich-' 


of  Godwick 
in  co.  Norf, 
2  son  of 
John.  Harl. 
MS.  6065. 
“  Now  last 
of  Eaton, 
co.  Norff., 
Esq.”  Add. 
MS.  5523. 


of  Tho>  parishe  of  Tendringe  in  com.  Essex, ar. 
Sidney  of  and  doctor  of  ye  Civill  Lawe,  3d  sonne. 
Walsing-  Harl.  MS.  6065.  Master  of  the  Pre- 
ham,  in  co.  rogative  Court ;  2d  husbd.  to  Mary 
Norf.  Southwell;  ob.7  May  1589  ;  Inq.  p.m. 

Will,  P.C.C.  1  Drury,  14  Dec.  1589. 
Bur.  in  St.  Mary  Magdu.,  Old  Fish  St. 


ard  Southwell  of  Wood- 
risinge  in  com.  Norff., 

Kt,  PriviCouncillor  toQ. 

M.  and  Q.  Eliz.  Natural 
dau,  Southwell  ped.,  no  issue.  Harl. 
Norff.  Visit. ,  Harl.  Soc.  MS.  1552. 

She  d.  1622. 


Henry  Potsf  on, =Robert  Forth,  LL.D.,=Str  Thomas 
son  <&  heir  to  Master  inChancery;  3d  Greseley  of 
husbd.  Will, P.C.C.  64  Staff  4th 
Scott,  21  Sept.,  prob.  husband. 

22  Oct.  1595;  names  Forth  c. 

“  wife’s  1st  husbd.,  Dr.  Gresley, 
Drury.”  Inq.  p.m.  30  Eliz.  B.&A. 
Eliz. 


Sir  Thomas 
Paston  Knight 
1  husband ,  but 


TTT 


Sir  John  Drury  of  Breltshall=f=Ann,  eldest  daugh.  to  Edmond  George,  2d  sonne,  b.  1580. 


in  Tendringe  in  com.  Essex, 
Knight,  sonne  and  lieire,  aged  16 
in  1589  ;  ob.  18  Dec.  1619.  Inq. 
p.m.  20  Jac.  Will,  P.C.C.  14 
Saville,  17  Dec.  1621. 


Saunders  of  Charlton  in  Surrey 
ar.  She  renupt.  John  Bow- 
yer,  Esq.  Her  will,  P.C.C. 
68  Campbell,  17  Sept.  1640, 
proved  16  May  1642. 


Will’m.,  3<l  sonne, b.  1584. 

Robert,  4th  sonne,  b.  1586. 
A  Jesuit.  Diet.  Nat.  Biog 


Brigett,  mar.  to  Elizabeth, mar. 
Rich'1  Babington  to  Charles 
of  Mucking  hill  Cleare  of  Stoics- 
in  com.  W or  tier,  bye  in  com. 
esquier,  born  Norfolke,  es- 
1575.  quier,  b.  1577. 


John  Drury,  esquier,  sonn=f=Bridgett,  d.  of  Sr 


and  heir,  aged  16  in 
1619.  Of  Tendring  in 
Com.  Essex,  esqr,  1634. 
Harl.  MS.  1542.  Inq.  p.m. 
16  Car.  Monument  in 
Tendring  Chancel.  Ob. 
22  March  1640. 


Thomas  Edon  of  Sud¬ 
bury  in  com.  Suff. 
Harl.  MS.  1542.  by 
Mary,  d.  of  Bryan 
Darcye,  Esq.  His 
Will,  P.C.C.  15 Cope, 
21  Sept.  1615. 


- r-i - 1 - ; - 1 - 1 

Sowthwell,  Robert  Drury  of  Tendring,  Eliz.,  da.  of  Edmund,  mar. 
sonne,  living  Ar.  1664 ■  Bysshe’s  Visit,  of  John  Welby  Alice,  da.  of 
1621.  Essex.  Second  surviving  son;  of  London,  .  .  .  Chapman, 

—  bought  OldHall  of  his  nephew  Merchant.  of  Bentley 
William,  3d  John  Drury.  Will,  14  April  Mag.  Will, 

sonne,  living  1691;  left  estate  to  James  Com.  Lond., 

1621.  Clarkson,  Esq.,  his  kinsman.  Essex  and 

Morant.  Herts.,  1669. 


John  Drury,  son  and  heir,  aged  11  in  1640  ;  sold  Old  Hall  in  Tendring 
to  Robert  Drury,  his  uncle.  Morant. 


Anne  Drury,  named  1640  in  her  grand¬ 
mother’s  will. 


Robert  Drury  of  Docking  in  co.^Mary,  da.  tfc  sole  heir  of  John 


Norf,  Gent.  Will,  P.C.C.  1 
Clarke,  27  Sept.  1624,  proved 
17  Jan.  following. 


Radcliff  of  Sturmer  in  co.  Essex, 
Esq.  Heir  to  Robert  Radcliff, 
her  brother. 


Thomas.  William.  Frances,  ux.  Farmor  Pepys 

of  South  Creak,  co.  Norfolk. 


i - 

Anne,  ux.  Thos  Tolle  of  Faken- 
ham.  Add.  MS.  5523.  Not 
named  in  her  father’s  will. 


Awdrye. 

Mary. 


— ri - 

Elizabeth. 

Parnell, ob.  s.p. 


~\  r  n 

Heveningham  Drury,  a  dau.  Jane. 

Catherine, ob.  s.p.  Add. MS. 5523. 


- 1 

A  daughter  mar.  Humphrey 
Yarmouth  of  Benacre  in 
Com. Suffolk.  Add.MS.5523. 


1.  John  Drury  of  Dry  Docking,  Gent. ,  son  and  heir.  Add.  2.  Robert,  living 

MS.  5523.  Of  Gray’s  Inn,  1609.  Admon.  15  April  1658.  ao.  1658. 


nr  i 

Thomas.  4 •  William. 


- 1 

Frances,  eldest  dau. 
Add.  MS.  5523. 


The  Arms,  Quarterings,  and  Crest  allowed  to  Drury  of  Tendring  at  the  Essex  Visitation  of  1664  were  those  of  Drury  of 
Rougham  (see  page  345),  with  a  mullet  for  difference. 


atostcati. 


Bran)  of 


JUntorial  Searings. 

The  Arms  of  Drury,  as  depicted  upon  the  monuments  in  Hawstead  chancel  to  Sir  Robert 
Drury,  1615,  and  to  Elizabeth  Drury  his  daughter,  1610,  and  upon  the  tomb  of  his  sister,  Lady 
Wray,  at  Ashby  in  Lincolnshire,  are,  in  effect,  Quarterly  of  13  : — 

1,  Drury,  Argent,  on  a  chief  Vert,  a  cross  Tau  between  two  mullets  pierced  Or. 

2,  Saxham,  Argent,  six  cross  crosslets  fitchee  Gules,  3,  2  and  1,  a  chief  dancettee  Azure. 

3,  Freysell,  Sable,  six  cinquefoils  Argent,  3,  2  and  1. 

4,  Gedding,  Chequy,  Argent  and  Gules,  on  a  fess  Azure,  three  round  buckles  Or. 

5,  Sotehill,  Gules,  an  eagle  displayed  Argent. 

6,  Plompton,  Azure,  three  fusils  in  fess  Or,  each  charged  with  an  escallop  Gules. 

7,  Vilers,  Azure,  a  fess  Or,  between  six  lions  rampant  Argent. 

8,  Murdac,  Bendy  of  10,  Argent  and  Azure. 

9,  Boyville,  Gules,  a  fess  Or,  between  three  saltires  couped  Argent. 

10,  Endesor,  Argent,  a  fess  between  three  horse-shoes  Gules. 

11,  Beaufils,  Gules,  three  fusils  in  fess  barry  wavy  Argent  and  Azure. 

12,  Foljambe,  Sable,  a  bend  between  six  escallops  Or. 

13,  Poynings,  Barry  Or  and  Vert,  a  bend  Gules. 

Quarterings  Nos.  5  to  13,  which  were  brought  in  by  the  Sotehill  marriage,  occur  in  a 
pedigree  in  Philpotts’  “  Suffolk  ”  at  the  College  of  Arms.  They  are  given  on  the  shield  of  Elizabeth 
Sotehill,  as  impaled  with  those  of  her  husband,  Sir  William  Drury,  on  his  brass  in  Hawstead 
church,  1557,  figured  by  Gage.  The  Crest  of  Drury  of  H awstead,  like  that  of  Drury  of  Rougham, 
is  a  greyhound  courant  Argent,  collared  and  ringed  Or.  A  crescent  is  sometimes  added  for 
difference. 

The  Suffolk  historians,  Cullum  in  his  “  History  of  Hawstead,”  and  Gage  in  his  “  History  of 
Thingoe,”  have  devoted  many  pages  to  their  most  interesting  memoirs  of  the  Druries.  The  latter 
has  given  us,  almost  in  extenso,  the  wills  of  five  members  of  the  Hawstead  house ;  those,  namely, 
of  Nicholas  Drury  of  Bury,  1454;  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Henry  Drury,  1475;  Roger  Drury,  1493 
Sir  Robert  Drury,  1532 ;  and  Sir  William  Drury,  1557.  That  of  Dame  Anne  Drury  of  Hardwick, 
1621,  widow  of  Sir  Robert,  will  be  found  in  “Bury  Wills  and  Inventories,”  edited  for  the  Camden 
Society  by  that  excellent  antiquary  the  late  Samuel  Tymms,  F.S.A. 


Will  of  Smsattna  Bntry,  1606. 

Memorandum  that  vppon  the  nyne  and  t  wen  tithe  daye  of  September,  1606,  Suzanna  Drury 
of  Glentworth  in  the  countye  of  Lincolne,  sister  of  Sr  Robert  Drurye,  Knighte,  being  sicke  in 
bodye  but  of  sound  and  pfecte  memorye,  made  and  declared  her  laste  will  and  testamente  as 
followeth.  “  I  wolde,”  quothe  shee  (dyrecting  her  speeche  to  Dame  Frances  Wraye  wife  of  Sr 
Willyam  Wraye,  Knighte,)  “  that  ye  and  my  sister  Burgheley  ”  (meaninge  Dame  Elizabeth  wife  of 


DRCRY  OF  HAWSTEAD. 


351 


the  righte  honorable  Sr  Willyam  Cecill,  Knight,  Lo :  Burgheley,)  “be  myne  executors,  but  that 
can  not  be,  but  your  husbands  muste  bee,  and  therefore  I  make  them  myne  Executors.  I 
bequeath  to  my  sister  Diana  Drurye  flower  hundred  poundes  \vch  is  to  be  receaved  of  Sr  Edmond 
Withipole.  And  I  bequeathe  to  my  nephewes  Mr  Christopher  and  Mr  Charles  Wraye  a  hundred 
pound  wch  is  in  the  hands  of  Mr  Wighteman,  to  be  equallie  devided  betwixt  them.  And  the 
Tenne  pounds  for  the  interest  thereof  to  be  disposed  thus  : — ffortye  shillinges  to  Wm  Marshall, 
ffortye  shillings  to  Thomas  Pi-atte,  and  residewe  to  the  rest  of  the  men  servantes  of  Sr  Willyam 
Wraye  at  Glentworth  and  Ashebye.  I  bestowe  on  my  neece  Frances  Clifford  f&ftie  poundes  to  be 
payd  oute  of  the  interest  of  ffower  hundred  poundes  due  from  Sr  Edmonde  Withipoll,  and  of 
ffortye  poundes  from  Mr  Cockman.  The  remaynder  of  Thirtye  poundes  to  my  neeces  the  Lo : 
Burghleis  daughters,  that  is  Twenty  nobles  a  pece  to  them,  and  the  reste  to  be  bestowed  in 
rings  for  my  Lo :  and  sister  Burgheley.  I  bequeathe  to  the  poore  of  Glentworth  and  Ashebye 
Tenne  poundes.  I  will  that  my  vellett  gowne,  my  vellet-peticote  and  my  taffata  gowne  be  bestowed 
on  mistris  Frances  Clifford,  and  my  orringe  damaske  peticote  on  mistris  Duncombe,  my  heare 
cullored  peticote  on  Anne  Stacye,  and  my  tawnye  grogranie  peticoate  on  Mris  Risheworthe.  I 
bequeathe  to  Mistris  Risheworth,  the  maydes  of  the  olde  hall,  Gartred  and  Susan,  seven  smocks 
and  all  the  rest  of  my  lynuen.  John  Sutton  oweth  me  Threescore  pounds.  I  will  have  that  to 
bestowe  on  my  selfe  for  a  monumente.  0  Lord  !  I  have  forgotten  mistris  Sadler  (speakinge  of 
the  wife  of  Frances  Sadler,  servante  vnto  Sr  John  Scotte)  who  hathe  more  need  than  all  of  you. 

I  pray  you  ”  (speakinge  to  her  sisters)  “  let  her  have  somwhat  of  that  wch  is  lefte  for  to  doo 

her  good,  for  I  knowe  I  have  not  geven  all.”  Theis  beinge  wytnesses  :  Willyam  Marshall,  Bridgett 
Risheworthe,  Gartred  Barracliff  her  marcke. 

Proved  at  London  14th  Novr,  1606,  by  Sir  William  Cecill,  Lord  Burghley,  and  Sir  William 
Wraye,  the  Executors.  P.C.C.  81  Stafford. 

This  lady,  who  was  sister  to  the  last  Sir  Robert  Drury  of  Hawstead,  went  a  hunting 
whilst  on  a  visit  to  Lady  Wray  at  Glentworth  in  Lincolnshire.  Being  no  horsewoman  they 
fastened  her  to  her  saddle  with  straps  that  she  might  not  be  dismounted.  The  animal  became 
restive  and  ran  away,  galloping  furiously  across  the  country.  Her  head  dashed  against  the  branches 
of  a  tree,  and  the  injuries  were  fatal.  She  had  time,  it  would  seem,  to  make  this  will  before 

she  died.  She  was  buried  in  Ashby  church,  hard  by,  where  a  splendid  monument  was  erected 

to  her  memory.  Her  effigy  reclines  on  a  tomb  supported  by  two  greyhounds  segant  collared. 
“  Unhappy  only  in  her  death,”  says  the  Latin  inscription,  “  she  burst  the  portals  on  the  feast 
day  of  St.  Michael,  1606,  and  joined  the  choirs  of  the  blessed,  having  numbered  but  two  and 
twenty  years.”  “Gentleman’s  Magazine,”  1831,  part  2,  p.  594. 


Will  of  Sir  JBnt  Intro,  1615. 

The  seaventh  day  of  July,  1613,  I  Sr  Drve  Drvry  of  London,  Knight,  declare  my  last  will 
in  writinge,  knowinge  the  vncertenty  of  my  naturall  lyfe.  And  first  of  all  I  commend  my  soule 
into  the  haudes  of  God,  trusting  assuredly  that  he  will  receive  it  into  his  everlastinge  habitacoii 
by  the  merritts  and  passion  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  the  love  of  my  life  and  the  life  of  my  soule, 
myne  onely  Savior  and  Redeemer.  My  mynde  is  that  my  Bodye  be  buried  in  decent  and  Christian 
manner  wthout  pompe,  in  the  Church  of  the  parrish  where  it  shall  please  God  to  call  me,  myne 
Executors  not  to  exceade  the  some  of  three  hundred  poundes  in  the  chardge  of  my  ffunex-all.  And 


352 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


my  will  is  that  a  Tvmbe  wth  myne  Armes  be  ei’ected  in  the  said  parish  Church.  I  give  vnto  my 
welbeloved  and  onely  sonne  Drve  Drury  Esquier  my  great  Cheyne  of  gould  and  my  Jewell  of  gould 
wth  oure  late  gracious  Queene  Elizabethe’s  Picture  therein,  and  one  Bason  and  Ewer  of  silver  wth 
myne  Armes  and  worde  or  Mott,  vizt.  “  Droit  et  Devant  ”  engraven  therin,  of  the  value  of  Twenty 
poundes.  The  same  Cheyne,  Jewell,  Bason  and  Ewer,  my  desire  is,  shall  remayne  vnto  his  eldest 
sonne  or  the  next  heire  male  of  his  bodie.  And  I  give  vnto  myne  eldest  daughter  the 
Ladie  Elizabethe  Wingfield,  late  wife  of  Sr  Thomas  Wingfeld,  Knight,  and  now  the  wife  of 
Henry  Reynoldes  Esquier,  and  to  my  second  daughter  the  lady  Anne  Dene,  now  the  wife 
of  Sr  John  Dene,  Knight,  and  to  my  third  daughter  the  lady  Fraunces  Boteler,  now  wife  of 
Sir  Robart  Boteler,  Knight,  to  every  of  them  one  Bason  and  Ewer  of  Silver  wth  myne  Armes 
and  worde  or  Mott  aforesaid  thereon  engraven  of  the  like  value  of  Twenty  poundes,  to 
remayne  to  the  eldest  sonne  or  next  heirs  male  of  every  of  them  severaly.  Ynto  my  nephue 
Sr  Henry  Drury  and  my  neece  the  lady  Hartwell,  now  wife  of  Sr  Robert  Hartwell,  to  either  of 
them  one  Bason  and  Ewer  of  silver  with  myne  Armes  and  word  or  mott  thereon  engraven  of 
the  same  value  etc.  Ynto  my  sister  Luce  Tasshe,  widowe  of  Robert  Tasshe  Esquier,  one  Annuytie 
of  ffive  poundes  issuinge  out  of  my  lands  in  Catton  in  Norfolke,  and  vnto  my  nephue  Edward 
Tasshe  her  sonne  one  other  Annuytie  of  Three  pounds.  J  give  to  my  neece  Elizabeth  Billingsley, 
wife  of  Thomas  Billingsley  Esquier  Tenne  poundes,  and  vnto  my  verie  good  friende  the  lady 
Jane  Boteler  the  elder  one  peece  of  silver  plate  of  the  value  of  Sixe  poundes  Thirteene  shillings 
and  fourpence.  Ynto  my  neece  Mary  Drury  daughter  to  my  brother  Robert  Drury  Esquier  Tenne 
poundes,  and  to  my  servant  William  Denny  one  Annuytie  of  five  poundes  out  of  my  said 

lauds  in  Catton,  To  the  poore  within  the  parish  of  St.  Giles  without  Cripplegate  ffive  poundes 
and  the  poore  wthn  the  parrish  of  Lynstede  in  Kent  three  poundes,  and  to  the  poore  inhabitinge 
within  the  Cittie  of  Norwiche  ffive  poundes,  and  to  the  poore  of  Catton  in  Norfolke  fforty 
shillings.  I  doe  further  give  vnto  ffowre  skore  and  sixe  suche  poore  men  and  women  inhabitinge 
elles  where  to  every  of  them  Tenne  shillings.  The  residue  of  all  my  Jewells,  plate,  money, 

furniture,  Armes,  weapons  and  furniture  for  the  warre  horses  and  other  quicke  Cattle,  leases  and 

other  goods,  I  bequeath  vnto  Drue  Drury  my  sonne.  And  I  doe  make  my  welbeloved  freind  and 

Cosen  Edward  Walgrave  Esquier  and  my  ould  and  wellbeloved  ffreind  George  Allington  Esquier 
Executors.  And  I  will  give  vnto  either  of  them  one  Cupp  of  silver  of  the  value  of  Tenne  poundes. 
And  I  doe  very  instantly  and  most  hartely  intreate  my  special  good  Lordes  and  ffrendes  Edward 
Lord  Zouch  and  Edward  Lord  Wotton  to  be  overseers.  And  I  doe  give  vnto  either  of  them 
one  Basen  and  Ewer  of  silver  guylt  of  the  value  of  Twenty  pounds  wth  myne  Armes  and  word 
or  mott  aforesaid  engraven  in  the  same.  Beseaching  them  to  accept  the  same  as  a  token  of  my 
thanckfull  remembrance  of  their  lovyinge  kyndenes  extended  towards  me.  Subscribed  sealed  and 
published  the  Tentlie  day  of  July,  1613.  Probation  vltimo  Maij,  1617,  Juramento  Edwardi  Walgrave 
et  Georgij  Kingston  Ar.  P.C.C.  39  Weldon. 


Mill  of  Sixt  itofort  Dntrg,  1615. 

Havinge  had  occasions  at  sondry  tymes  to  alter  my  will  I  have  nowe  Chosen  rather  to 
make  this  shorte  will  then  to  be  w’thout  any  at  all  ;  therefore  after  that  dutie  that  I  owe  vnto 
God  of  the  Cheyfe  legacy  of  my  soule  vnto  him  I  doe  appointe  my  poore  vnworthy  Corps  to 
be  laid  in  Hawsted  Chancell  in  A  tombe  wth  my  wife  vpon  which  I  doe  will  that  a  huudred 
poundes  should  bee  bestowed,  wth  an  effigie  and  memoriall  over  it  of  my  worthy  father.  Next  I 


DRURY  OF  HAWSTEAD. 


353 


doe  giue  vnto  my  wyfe,  besides  her  thirds  due  by  lawe,  and  Hargett  \vch  I  have  conveyed  to  her 
for  life,  the  manner  wth  the  lands  that  I  have  att  Snarshill  in  Norfolke  for  her  life.  Alsoe  I 
doe  will  that  in  the  partage  of  her  thirds  in  Drury  lane  she  should  have  the  house  I  nowe 
dwell  in  allotted  vnto  her.  I  doe  give  her  for  her  life  all  my  meadowes  in  Bury  and  tithes  in 
Hencotte  farme.  Alsoe  all  my  plate  Jewells  and  houshould  stuffe  and  my  Coaches  and  Coach 
horses  and  five  hundred  markes  to  her  purse.  Next  I  doe  give  vnto  my  loveing  kinsman  Sir 
Henry  Drury  of  Hudgley,  and  for  want  of  heires  males  of  his  body  to  Sr  Drew  Drury  of 

Riddlesworth  and  heirs  males,  all  my  houses,  gardens,  stables  and  tenements  in  Drury  Lane  in 
St.  Clements’  parish  wthout  temple  barre  London.  Alsoe  vnto  the  same  Sr  Henry  Drury  of 
Hudgley  in  Buckinghamshire,  and  for  want  of  heirs  males  of  his  body  to  the  foresaid  Sr  Drew 
Drury  of  Riddlesworth  in  Norfolk,  after  the  decease  of  my  wife,  the  lands  in  Snarshill  in 

Norfolk,  and  to  the  heires  males  of  the  said  Sr  Drew  Drury,  if  Wm,  Roberte  and  Henry  Drury, 
sonnes  of  Sr  Henry  Drury,  should  dye  wthout  yssue  male ;  and  the  like  for  Drury  house  and 
those  rentes  in  Drury  lane.  As  for  Hawstead  house  and  all  my  landes  in  Suffolke  I  doe  give  it 
all  vnto  Sr  Henry  Drury  of  Hudgley,  vntill  my  sisters,  and  those  challenging  by  their  right, 
have  given  to  Sr  Henry  Drury  and  to  Sr  Drew  Drury  assurance  of  Drury  house  and  Snarshill 
and  those  landes  in  Norfolke,  that  their  may  be  noe  contention.  I  will  that  Sr  Henry  Drury  or 
his  lieire  ioyned  w*  my  wife  shall  receave  the  profits  of  my  landes  in  Suffolke  for  the  raysinge 
of  five  thowsand  pound  to  be  payed  vnto  a  noble  person  whoe  I  have  bin  iustly  bound  to  make 
that  acknowledgment  for  many  fauoures  and  assistances  in  my  necessity.  To  my  honest  Tutor, 
Mr  Brabon,  parson  of  Whepsteed,  Twenty  pounds  by  yeare,  to  be  levyed  out  of  my  Mannor  of 

Whepsteed  all  the  tyme  of  his  life.  I  doe  make  my  Executoi's  my  loveinge  wife,  Sr  Henry 

Drury  of  Hudgley  and  my  Tutor  Mr  Brabon  and  my  good  honest  friend  Mr  Bamont  of  Cheuing- 
ton,  to  whome  a  peece  of  plate  of  Twenty  pounds  for  a  legacy.  And  I  wish  the  Aimes  house 
may  be  removed  to  Sparrowes  tuft  hard  by  the  Church  at  Hawsteed.  In  testimony  that  this  is 
my  last  will,  which  I  hope  nobody  will  be  so  unloving  unto  me  as  to  endeavour  to  break  it, 
I  have  sett  to  my  hand  and  seale  this  xxvth  of  Aprill  1614  to  both  sides  of  this  paper.  R.  Drury. 
If  it  should  please  God  to  call  that  party  before  me  to  whome  I  have  bequeathed  the  five 
Thowsand  pounde  I  will  that  it  should  be  devided  equally  betweene  my  Sisters. 

A  Codicill  or  parte  of  the  Will  of  the  right  worth  Sr  Robert  Drury,  Knight,  made  the 
second  day  of  Aprill  1615.  Whereas  by  my  will  bearinge  date  the  five  and  twenty  of  Aprill 
1614  I  did  give  vnto  a  noble  personage  five  thowsand  poundes,  my  will  is  now  to  Revoke  that 
legacy,  and  hereby  I  doe  give  vnto  the  same  person  onely  the  some  of  two  thowsand  and  fiue 
hundred  pounds.  And  I  doe  further  giue  unto  my  most  worthy  lady  and  loveinge  wife  two 
thowsand  pounds,  to  be  raysed  out  of  the  revennewes  of  my  said  Mannors  and  lands.  And  alsoe 
I  doe  give  vnto  my  wife  my  Mannor  or  farm  called  Hencote  ferme  near  vnto  Bury  St.  Edmunds 
for  terme  of  her  life,  besides  her  Thirds  and  Dower.  If  any  one  of  my  sisters,  shall  challenge 
any  right  in  those  landes  which  I  have  bequeathed  vnto  my  wife,  then  the  said  my  wife  shall 
enter  into  my  Mannors  of  Hawsteed,  Whepsteed,  Brockley,  Chedber  and  Reed  vntill  she  shall  haue 
peaceable  possession  of  those  landes  wch  I  have  given  her.  Alsoe  I  doe  furder  give  by  this 
Codicill  to  my  beloved  Tewtor,  Mr  Brabon,  one  hundred  poundes  to  buy  him  bookes  wth  all.  I 
doeth  give  vnto  my  good  friend  Mr  Thomas  Shorte,  Phisition  in  Berry,  the  some  of  ffortye 
poundes.  Also  vnto  my  wife’s  nephewe  Mr  Robert  Bacon  five  pownds  Anuytie  out  of  my  Mannor 
of  Chedber.  R.  Drury.  Probatum  fuit  testamentum  suprascriptum  cum  Codicillo  annex  vicesimo 
septimo  die  Novembris,  1615,  Juramento  Domine  Anne  Drury,  Relicte,  &c. 


P.C.C.  98  Rudd. 
2  x 


354 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


jUrurg  of  iJatosteati. 


Nicholas  Drury  of  Saxham’s  in  Thurston,  made  will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  at  Bury  St.  Edmunds, =pJoan,  dau.  of  Tho- 
4  Jau.  1454,  proved  2  Sept.  1456.  To  be  bui’ied  near  his  parents  in  Thurstou  church,  j  mas  Heath,  Esq., 
Names  Sir  Roger  Drury,  his  late  brother  ;  Felice,  wife  of  his  son,  Roger  Drury,  &c.  [  of  Mildenhall. 


Agnes ,=Felice,  dau.  &=j=Roger Drury, Esq.,  bought= Agnes,  dau.  and  coh.  of 


named 
in  hus¬ 
band’s 
M.I. 


heir  of  Wil¬ 
liam  Denston 
of  Resthorpe, 
co.  Norfolk. 


Felice,  mar.  Jas. 
Andrews  of  Bayl- 
ham,  Suff.  Add.  MS. 
5523. 


Hawstead,  3  Edw.  4.  Will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  20  Jau. 
1493.  Iuq.  p.m.  13  H.  7. 
Ob.  31  Jau.  H.  7. 


Wm.  Hanningfield,  Esq., 
of  Lawshall  and  relict  of 
John  Palgrave.  Her  will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1501. 


- 1 - 

Elizabeth,  ux. 

.  .  .  Monk, 
named  1454 
in  her  father’s 
will. 


Henry  Drury  of=pElizabeth,  dau.  of  George 


Ickworth,  Esq., 
eldest  son  ;  died 
in  his  father’s 
lifetime. 


John  and 
Roger, 

21  Edw. 
4,  ob.  s.p. 


William=j=Margaret,  sole  •  dau. 


Drury  of 
Besthorpe, 

Norfolk,  2d 
son.  vj/ 

Drury  op  Besthorpe. 


and  heir  of  William 
Briggs  of  Quidden- 
ham,  co.  Norfolk. 


Henry 
Drury, 
died  s.p. 
before  his 
father. 


Thos.  Harvey,=pJoan  Drury,= 


Esq.,  of  Ix- 
wortli,  Sufi., 
jure  uxoris 
1st  husband. 


dau.  and  sole 
heir,  died  in 
her  mother’s 
lifetime. 


Nl/ 


Eaton,  Esq.,  living  1454. 
Will,  Arch.  Sudb.,  14 
Mar.  1475.  To  be  bur.  in 
St.  Mary’s  church,  Bury. 

;Sir  William  Carew,  2d 
husband,  buried  with 
his  wife  in  St.  Mary’s 
church,  Bury.  Will, 
P.C.C.  26  May  1501. 
\P 


Anne,  1st  wife,  dau.  of  Sir=j=Sir  Robert  Drury  of  Hawstead,  of  the=Anne,  2d  wife,  dau.  of  Edward  Jerningham 


William  Calthorpe  of  Burn¬ 
ham  Thorpe,  co.  Norff., 
who  made  will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Nonv.,  1494.  Harl.  MS.  10. 


Bridget,  3d  dau.,  mar. 
Sir  John  Jernegan  of 
Cossey. 


Privy  Council  of  King  Henry  VII. 
Will,  P.C.C.  32  Hogan,  8  Feb!  1535. 
Inq.  p.m.  27  H.  8.  Altar  tomb  in 
St.  Mary’s,  Bury. 


of  Somerleyton  ;  widow  of  Lord  Edward 
Grey  and  of  .  .  .  Berkeley.  She  m.  4tli 
Sir  Edmund  Walsingham  of  Scadbury.  Her 
will,  P.C.C.  17  Chaynay,  is  dated  1  Mar.  1558. 


Katherine,  mar.  1st  Sir 
Henry  L’Estrange  of 
Hunstanton,  Norfolk,  and 
2d  Sir  Robert  Ratcliff  of 
Attleburgh.  She  d.  1496. 


Anne,  mar.  1st  Sir  George  Walde- 
grave,son  of  William  Waldegrave  of 
Smallbridge;  2d  Sir  Thomas  Jermyn. 


Elizabeth,  2d  dau.,  mar.  Sir  Philip 
Boteler  of  co.  Herts.  She  d.  1574. 
Water's  Chester  Family. 


Ursula,  mar.  Sir  Giles 
Alliugton  of  Horslieath,  co. 
Camb.  Brass  at  Hawstead. 


"i - — - 1 

Joan,  1st  wife,  dau.— Sir  Wm.  Drury  of  Hawstead,=j=  Elizabeth,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Henry  Sir  llobert  Drury  of=f  Elizabeth, dau.  and  heir 


and  heir  of  Sir  Wm.  of  the  Privy  Council  of  Queen 
St.  Maur  :  buried  in  Mary  ;  ait.  36,  27  H.  8.  Brass 
Hawstead  chancel;  d.  at  Hawstead.  Will.  P.C.C. 
1517.  26  Dec.  1557. 


Anne,  eldest  dau.,  1st 
wife  of  Sir  Christopher 
Haydon  of  Bacons- 
thope.  She  ob.  1561. 


Mary,  2d  dau.,  mar. 
1st  Richd.  Corbet ;  2d, 
1565,  John  Tyrrell  of 
Gipping,  co.  Suffolk, 
Esq. 


Sotehill  of  Stoke  Faston,  co.  Leic.  Ob.  Hedgerley.co.  Bucks. 
19  May  1575.  His  Iuq  p.m.  20  H.  7.  Will,  P.C.C.  26 
His  mother  a  coheir  of  Plompton.  Her  Daughtry, 20Ap.l577- 


will,  P.C.C.  42  Pyckering,  proved  1575. 


of  Edward  Brudenell, 
Esq. ,  of  Hedgerley,  and 
xl/Chalfont,  co,  Bucks. 


Drury  of  Hedgerley. 


Dorothy,  5  th  dau. ,  2d 
wife  of  Robert  Roke- 
wood  of  Coldham 
Hall,  co.  Suff.  Mar. 
settlement,  5  Eliz. 


Frances,  3d  dau., 
mar.  JamesHobart 
of  Hales  Hall.  A 
quo  Hobart  of 
Suffolk,  1664. 


Bridget, 4th  dau. 
mar.  to  Henry 
Yelverton  of 
Rougham,  co. 
Norfolk. 


- 1 

Elizabeth,  youngest 
dau.,  mar.  Sir  Robert 
Drury  of  Rougham, 
Suffolk.  See  Drury 
op  Rougham. 


Robert  Drury,  Esq  ,  son=j=Audrey,  dau.  of  Richard, 


and  heir,  died  one  day 
before  his  father.  Inq. 
p  m.  4  and  5  P.  and  M. 


Anne,  eldest  dau.,  mar. 
John  Thornton  of  Soham, 
co.  Cambridge. 


Lord  Rich,  Lord  Chan¬ 
cellor  of  England. 


Henry  Drury  of  Lawshall,  2d  son.  Tnq.= 
p.m.  29  Eliz.  Will, P.C.C.  4  Spencer,  1586. 


^Elizabeth,  sole  da  and  heir  of  Thomaslsaac 
ofBaddow,co.Essex,  Her  children d.young. 


Henry  Drury,  son  and  heir,  set.  20  in  1586. 


Mary,  2d  dau.,  mar. 
Robert  Russell  of 
West  Rudharn,  co. 
Norf.  Harl.MS.1552. 


- , — j — , - | - I - 

Susan,  4th  dau.,  mar.  Winifred,  5th  dau.,  Bridget, 6th dau. 
to  Robert  Baspole.  mar.  Edmund  Mark-  mar.  Richard 

—  haut  of  Colchester.  Zoucli  of  Pitton, 

Henry  &  Robert,  s.p.  Harl.  MS.  154-1.  co.  Wilts. 


Dorothy,  7th  dau.,  mar. 
at  Hawstead,  1577,  to 
Edward  Barnes.  M.I. 
iuSoham  church, Camb. 


SirWilliamDrury  of  Haw-=f=E  lizabe  t  h ,  dau.  of  Sir=Sir  John  Scott  of 


stead  ;  entertained  Queen 
Elizabeth,  1578  ;  slain  in 
duel,  1589.  Inq.  p.m. 
Will,  P.C.C.  40  Scott. 


Wm.  Stafford  of  Cheb- 
sey,  co.  Stafford. 
Dalton's  History  of  the 
Wrays  of  Glentworth. 

J - - - 


Nettlestead,  co. 
Kent,  2d  husband. 
M.I.  inNettlestead 
church. 


Thomas  Drury,  2d 
surviving  son,  mar. 
.  .  .  Fitzharding  of 
Radcliffe,  near  Lon¬ 
don. 


- 1 - 

Elizabeth,  3d  dau.,  mar. 
1st  Thomas  Gray  of 
Merton ;  2d  Nicholas 
Mynne  of  Walsingham, 
co.  Norfolk. 


SirRobertDrury=pAnue,  dau.  of 


of  Hawstead, 
Knighted  1591. 
WUI,  P.C.C.  98 
Rudd,  1615. 
Funeral  Certifi¬ 
cate  in  Cullum’s 
Hawstead.  Inq. 
p.m. 

I - 

Dorothy, 
died  in 
infancy. 


Sir  Nicholas 
Bacon  of 
Redgrave, 
Bart.  Will, 
P.C.C.  49 
Byrd,  prov. 
10Junel624. 


Charles, 
2d  son, 
slain  at 
Nieu- 
port, 
Flanders, 
Admon. 
1600. 


Frances,  eld.  sister  and 
coh.,  mar.  1st  Sir  Nicholas 
Clifford ;  2d  Sir  Wm. 
Wray  of  Glentworth,  co. 
Lincoln,  Bart.  Her  will, 
P.C.C.  27  May  1637, fprov. 
1642  ;  Mon.  in  Ashby 
church,  co.  Lincoln. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  Wm. 
Lord  Burleigh,  Earl 
of  Exeter,  K.G.  Her 
will  proved  20  April 
1654.  His  2d  wife.  Bur. 
in  St.  James,  Clerken- 
well.  SeeStowe’sSurvey. 


Diana,  2d  wife  of 
Edward  Cecil, 
Viscount  Wimble¬ 
don,  youngest  sis¬ 
ter  and  coh.  Her 
Admon.  12  May 
1631.  No  surviving 
issue. 


Audrey,  8th  dan., 
mar.  at  Hawstead, 
1587,  George 
Parker  of  Whep- 
stead. 

- 1 

Susanna 
Drurv.  Will, 
P.C.C.  81 
Stafford, 
1607.  Mon. 
in  Ashby 
church,  co. 
Lincoln. 


Elizabeth,  died  1610,  set. 
15.  Mon.  in  Hawstead 
church.  Epitaph  and 
elegies  by  Dr.  Donne. 


Sir  Christopher  Wray  of 
Ashby,  co.  Lincoln.  His  son, 
Sir  Wm.  Wray,  sold  Haw¬ 
stead  to  the  Cullums,  1656. 


Elizabeth  Cecil,  dau.  and 
coh.,  mar. Thomas,  Earl  of 
Berkshire,  K.G.,  and  d. 
1669,  leaving  issue. 


Diana  Cecil,  2d  dau.  and 
coh.,  mar.  1st  Henry,  Earl 
of  Oxford, and  2d  Thomas, 
Earl  of  Elgin.  She  d.  s.p. 


Anne  Cecil, 3d  dau. 
and  coh., m  Henry, 
Earl  of  Stamford, 
and  had  issue. 


DRURY  OF  HAWSTEAD. 


355 


jZBrurg  of  53estIjorpe. 


William  Drury  of  Besthorpe,  co.  Norfolk.  Esq.,  2d  son  of; 
Roger  Drury  of  Hawstead  and  Felice  Denston  ;  inherited 
his  mother’s  lands  in  Besthorpe  :  living  1491,  11  lots. 


i — - 1 — ; - 

Thomas  Catherine,  eldest  dau.,  mar. 

Drury,  a  ...  Stor.er  of  Waltham 

priest,  Forest.  But  query  Mary, 

3d  son.  as  in  her  sister’s  will. 


Joan,  2d  dau.,  a  nun  at 
Bruisyard.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  6  Oct.  1540  ;  then 
of  Besthorpe, gentlewoman; 
prob.  7  Feb.  following. 


:Margaret,  dau.  and  heir  of  William 
Bridges  of  Quiddenliam,  co.  Norfolk, 
Esq.  Briggs,  Blomefield. 


Anne,  3d  dau-,  mar.  John 
Bladwell  of  Thurlow,  co. 
Suffolk.  Made  will,  P.C.C, 
1563,  as  Ann  Walpole  of 
Thurlow. 


John  Drury, =f-Anue,  dau.  of 
youngest  I  Robert  Bramp- 
son ;  living  |  ton  of  Attle- 
1551.  xj/burgh,  Norfolk. 

Drury  of  Rollesby,  &c. 


Robert  Drury  of=pElizabeth  Mary  Blennerhasset,=f=William  Drury  of  Besthorpe,  Gent,  2d=j=Dorothy,  dau.  of  William.  Brampton  of 


Besthorpe,  son  and 
heir.  His  two  other 
wives  had  no  issue. 


Clifford, 
1st  wife. 


1st  wife,  relict  of 
Henry  Warner,  Esq. 


si/ 


son  ;  heir  to  his  nephew,  Charles  Drury. 
Will,  P.C.C.  29  Powell,  13  July  1551  ; 
prob.  11  Nov.  1552. 


William  Drury=pUrsula,  dau. 


of  Besthorpe. 
Charles  and 
Francis,  his 
sons,  d.  s.p. 


of  Richard 
Coe  and 
Anne  Clif¬ 
ford, his  wife. 


Catherine,  mar.  John  Cham-  Tabitha,  mar.  Dorothy,  mar. 
berlain  of  Effingham,  co.  Andrew  Robt.  Constable 

Norff.  Her  son,  Rafe  Cham-  Clarke  of  of  Ingham,  co. 
berlain’s  will,  P.C.C.  424  Wrexham.  2d  Norfolk.  3d 
Dale,  1621.  dau.  dau. 


Let  ton,' co.  Norfolk,  Esq.  See  Brampton 
pedigree,  p.  285.  She  renupt  Wm. 
Cocket  of  Ampton.  Cullum. 


Anne,  mar.  Fran¬ 
cis  Watson,  Parson 
of  Little  Pelham, 
co,  Essex  (query 
Sussex)  ;  4th  dau. 


Edmund  Drury, 
D.D.,  4th  son, 
Rector  of  Yelver- 
ton,  co.  Norfolk. 


Charles  Drury,  Anne,  dau.  of  Robertq=Anthony  Drury  of  Besthorpe, =j=Anne,  dau.  of  John  Henry  Drury,  Rec¬ 


ob.  s.p.  Estates  Kempe  of  Gissing  ; 
to  William  sister  of  Richard 
Drury,  his  great  Kempe,  who  made 
uncle.  will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw., 

1599. 


Esq.  Will,  P.C.C.  109  Cope, 
20  June  1616,  proved  9  Nov. 
following.  He  mar.  Anne 
Kempe,  1567,  and  Anne 
Garneys,  1572.  Blomefield. 


Garneys  of  Spexhall,  tor  of  Tendriug, 
co.  Suffolk,  See  Gar-  co.  Essex.  Will, 
neys  pedigree,  p.  191.  P.C.C.  1612. 

She  d.  1634.  Blome -  =f= 

field.  \j/ 

Drury  of  Rollesby. 


RogerDrury,2d  son.  of 
Rollesby,  co.  Norfolk, 
mar.  Catherine  Lovell 
(but  query).  Add. MS. 
5523.  =p 
si/ 

Drury  of  Rollesby. 


i - 1 - - 

Elizabeth  Drury,  Bridget,  dau.  of=j=Sir  Anthony  Drury.  Anne,  mar.Wm. 


sole  issue  by  this  John  Spelman, 
mar.,  ux.  William  of  Narburgh,  co. 
Harborne  of  St.  Norfolk ;  buried 
Olave’s,  in  Suffolk,  there.  Will, Cur. 
near  Great  Yar-  Ep.  Norw.  1639. 
mouth. 


Anne,  mar.  at  Bes-  Dorothy, 
thorpe,  1624,  Humphrey  ob.  in- 
Rant  of  Yelverton,  co.  nupta, 
Norfolk.  1627. 


of  Besthorpe,  Pleasance  of 

Knighted,  1603  ;  Brandon,  1606. 
High  Sheriff  of  Her  son’s  pedi- 
Norfolk,  1617;  M.P.  gree  in  Suffolk 
1625.  Will,  Cur.  Visitation,  1664. 
Ep.  Norw.,  1638. 


Dorothy,  mar.  1st  Susanna,  m.  1606 
JohnBurman,LL.D.  Henry  Rokewood 
See  his  Fun.  Certif.,  of  Weston,  Norff. 
Add.  MS.  4S20.  2d.  — 

Clias.  Suckling  of  Robert  Drury,  3d 
Woodton.  Shed.  1642  son.  s.p.  Add. 
M.I.  in  Tasburgh  ch.  MS.  5523. 


Wm.  Drury,  Esq.,  of 
Weston,  Norff.,  2d  s. 
Will,  P.C.C.  153 
Twisse,  1640.  Lands 
in  Bramford,  Suffolk, 
to  Anthony  Drury, 
his  nephew. 


Bridget,  mar.,  20  Feb.  1625, 
to  Arthur  Brantwait,  sou  of 
Miles  Branthwait  of  Hethel, 
Norf. 


Elizabeth,  mar.  1632  to  William 
Revet  of  Bildeston,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq., 
who  made  will,  P.C.C.  35  Rivers, 
11  Dec.  1642.  His  Inq.  p  m.  21  Car. 


Susan,  mar.  at  Besthorpe,  20 
Nov.  1636,  Robert  Wilton  of 
Wilby,  co.  Norfolk,  Esq.  She 
d.  1643.  Blomefield. 


Sir  William  Drury  of  Besthorpe, = 
Kt.  Will,  P.C.C.  2  Coventry, 
1639  Ob.  8  Nov.  1639,  M.I. 
in  Besthorpe  chaucel.  Jane, 
his  dau.,  d.  vita  pains. 


=Mary,  eldest 
dau.  of  William 
Cockayne,  Esq., 
Alderman  of 
London. 


Anthony  Drury  of  Int-= 
wood,  Norfolk.  andBeding- 
field,  co.  Suffolk,  Esq.  ; 
nephew  and  heir,  1640, 
to  William  Drury,  Esq, 


William, 
d.  young. 

Anthony, 
bapt.  1638  ; 
d.  1640,  his 
sisters  be¬ 
ing  coheirs. 


'Elizabeth,  dau.  of 
Wm.  Smyth  of  Win¬ 
ston,  co.  Norfolk. 
Her  will,  P.C.C.  206 
Coker,  1693. 


Robert  Drury  of  Bes-= 
thorpe,  Gent.,  1643, 
executor  to  his  uncle, 
Wm.  Drury,  Esq.  Had 
three  daus.  Davy. 


'Margaret, dau. 
of  John  Rivet 
of  Bildeston, 
Esq. 


Bridget,  eldest  dau.  and  coh.,  b, 
1635  ;  mar.  1st,  Robert  Needham, 
Lord  Ivilmoray  (who  d.  1668)  ;  2d, 
Sir  John  Shaw  of  Eltham,  co.  Kent, 
anno  1675  ;  3d,  Sir  John  Baber, 
Kt.,  M-D.  She  d.  1694,  and  was 
buried  at  Eltham.  Le  Neve’s  Knights , 
Karl.  Soc, 


Anne,  dau.  and  coh., 
mar.  Philip  Harbord  of 
Stanninghall,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk,  Esq.,  by  whom  she 
had  three  daughters.  She 
d.  1679,  and  was  buried 
at  Besthorpe. 


Elizabeth,  his  eldest 
dau.,  was  devisee  of 
her  uncle,  Sir  William 
Drury,  1639  ;  after 
wife  of  John  Leech, 
Gent.,  of  Wells,  Nor¬ 
folk. 


Nicholas  Drury  of-|-Catherine, 


Intwood,  Norfolk. 
Of  Southolt,  Suffolk, 
1691.  His  father’s 
will,  Arch.  Norf., 
1676. 


dau.  of  Sir 
John  .Ten¬ 
ney,  sister 
and  devisee 
of  Edmond 
Jenney. 


Anthony  Drury  of  Southolt,  Lord  of  Shotford 
Hall,  Mendham  ;  d.  s.p.  1748. 


Catherine,  sister  and 
coheir,  1748. 


Elizabeth,  sister  and  coheir  ;  widow 
of  .  .  .  Roberts,  1748. 

2  X2 


356 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


©rurg  of  3&ollesbg,  etc. 


William  Drury,  Esq.,  of  Bestliorpe,  2d  son=j=Margaret,  dau.  and  heir 


of  Roger  Drury  of  Hawstead  and  Felice 
Denston  ;  inherited  his  mother’s  lands  in 
Besthorpe  and  Attleborough. 


of  William  Bridges  of 
Quiddenham.  Briggs, 
Blomejield. 


Henry  Warner, =pMary,  dau.  of  John  Blen-=William  Drury  of=pDorotliy,  2d  wife, 


Esq.,  of  Bes¬ 
thorpe,  1st 
husband. 


nerhasset,  Esq.,  of  Besthorpe,  Gent.,  2d 
Southill,  co.  Bedford,  and  son.  Will,  P.C.C. 
Frenze,  co.  Norff.  Harl.  20  Powell,  1551. 

MS.  1103. 


Sir  Edward  Warner, 
eldest  son  ;  Lieut, 
•of  the  Tower.  Ob. 
1565,  s.p. 


Sir  Robert  Warner 
of  Mildenhall,  co. 
Suffolk,  brother 
and  heir. 


Anne  Warner,  wife 
of  Robert  ltynebald 
of  Norwich,  1551. 


dau.  of  William 
Brampton  of  Let- 
ton.  See  pedigree, 
p.  285. 


John  Drury,  3d  son,=pAnne,  dau.  of 


of  Carleton  Forehoe, 
Norfolk.  Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,  19  Nov.  1560  ; 
prob.  30Nov.following. 


Robert  Brampton  of 
Attleborough. 


Henry  Drury 
of  Stanning- 
hall,  had  dau. 
Amy,  living 
1599. 


Elizabeth,  m. 
Sir  Roger 
Wodehouse  of 
Kimberley. 


Catherine,  m. 

.  .  .  Whin- 
borough  of 
Whiuborough. 


Mary,  m. 
. . .  Thur- 

good  of 
Essex. 


Joan  or  Ur- 
sula,m.Thos. 
Gray  of  Mer¬ 
ton, lsthusb. 
Hey  borne. 


Anthony=j=Anne, 


Drury  of 
Besthorpe 
son  and 
heir. 


dau.  of 
John 
Garneys, 
Esq. 


Henry  Drury, =j=Anne,  living 


Drury  of  Besthorpe. 


Parson  of  High 
Rodiug,  co.  Essex. 
Will,  P.C.C.  91 
Capel,  19  Nov. 
1612.  Lands  in 
Tendring,  &c. 


1612,  dau.  of 
.  .  .  Tanner. 
Add.  MS. 

5523. 


Roger  Drury,  Esq.,; 
of  ltollesby,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk.  Will,  P.C.C. 
79  Kidd,  22  May 
1599.  M.P.  for  Yar¬ 
mouth,  1588. 


^Catherine,  sister  to=j=William 


Thomas  Nesse  of 
Yarmouth.  Her 
will,  P.C.C.  109 
Dorset,  20  March 
1608.  Some  MSS.  say 
“  Catherine  Lovell.” 


Lister, 
1st  hus¬ 
band. 


- 1 

Edmund  Drury, 
D.D.,  Rector  of 
Yelverton  and 
Bees  ton,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk.  Blomejield. 
4th  son,  living 
1612. 


Henry  Drury  of 
High  Roding, 
•co.  Essex,  Gent., 
executor  to  his 
father,  1613. 


Dorothy,  mar. 
Lewis  Brad, 
field,  Vicar  of 
Dunmow,  co. 
Essex. 


- 1 - 

Mary,  mar. 
Wm.  Payne, 
Rector  of 
Duckworth, 
co.  Herts., 
before  1612. 


Sir  Dru  Drury  of  Rollesby,=Anne,  dau.  and  coli. 
Kt.,  exhausted  his  patri-  of  Thos.,Lord  Burgh, 
mony  in  luxury, and  sold  it,  Was  widow  and 
and  died  in  prison.  Candler,  executrix  of  Henry 
Will,  P.C.C.  20  Hele,  10  Coppiuger,  1648. 
June  1618,  prov.  1624,  by  Drury  c.  Dorset,  Col- 
his  brother.  lins,  106. 


- ! - 

Roger  Drury  of 
Drury  Lane,  Esq., 
brother  and  heir  to 
SirDruDrury.  Will 
P.  C.  C.  3  Audley,31 
Dec.  1631,  proved 
Jan.  following,  s.p. 


Rose  Lister,  dau.  and 
heir,  wife  of  Francis 
Claxton,  Esq.,  son  of 
Owen  Claxton.  Her 
altar-tomb  in  Rol- 
lesby  chancel.  She 
d.  30  May  1601. 


Roger  Drury  of  Rollesbye,  co.  Norff.,  Esquire,  22  May,  1599.  To  be  buried  in  Rollesbye  Church.  To  my  Syster  Katherine 
Chamberlaine,  to  be  paide  to  her  owne  handes  withowt  the  privitie  of  Mr  John  Chamberlaine,  her  badd  husband.  To  my  Syster 
Tabitha  Clarke.  My  bretheren  Mr.  Henry  Drury  and  Edmond  Drury.  To  my  god-daughter  Amye  Drury,  daughter  to  my  late 
Cozen  Henry  Drury  of  Stanninghall.  My  brother  Mr  Anthony  Drury  to  delyver  to  my  daughter  in  lawe  Rose  Claxton  the 
seale  Ringe  which  was  her  ffather's,  Mr  Lyster.  My  brother  Mr  Owen  Claxtou  &  my  sonne  Frauneis  Claxton.  My  verie  good 
Cozen  Mr  John  Gurden,  Esquire,  and  my  cozen  Amye  his  wife.  I  gyve  vnto  Roger  Drury  my  sonne  my  Mannor  of  Eccles 
in  the  countie  of  Norff.  and  my  messuage  in  Yarmouth.  My  messuages  &c.  in  Rashmere  and  Bradwell  co.  Stiff.  My  sonne  in 
lawe  Fraunces  Claxton  and  Rose  his  wife.  To  Drue  Drury  my  sonne  my  signett  of  golde  with  my  Armes,  the  gylt  cupp  which 
Sr  Drue  Drury  did  give  me  at  my  mariage,  and  all  the  plate  which  was  geven  him  at  his  Christeninge.  Vnto  Katherine  my 
wife  all  my  Mannors,  landes  &c.  in  Norff  and  Suff  duringe  her  life.  My  Mannors  of  Rollysby  and  Bills,  and  my  landes  in 
Bradwell  and  Gorleston.  I  doe  make  the  said  Katherine  my  sole  executor.  She  shall  gyve  good  and  sufficient  educacon  to  my 
two  sonnes  Drue  and  Roger,  first  at  Cambridge  then  at  the  Innes  of  Courte.  I  besech  Sr  Drue  Drury  the  he  will  give  me 
leave  to  appoynte  him  the  overseer  of  this  will.  And  I  gyve  him  one  Bason  and  Ewer  of  sylver  worth  twentie  poundes,  besides 
the  fashion  of  it.  A  Codicill  12th  June,  1599.  Katherine  my  wiffe  shall  sell  my  how.se  in  Yarmouth  called  the  Dolphins  which 
late  were  Thomas  Nesse  her  brother’s,  and  my  Coppeholde  lands  in  Smalborough  &  Dilham  and  my  tent’e  in  Yelverton. 
Probatum  tricesimo  die  Octobris,  1599.  Juramento  procur’is  Katherine  Drury  Relicte.  P.C.C.  79  Kidd. 


DRURY  OF  HAWSTEAD. 


357 


Drury  of  Bfotilestoortf). 


Anne,  1st  wife,  dau.  of =j=Sir  .  Robert  Drury  of  Hawstead,  co.— Anne,  2d  wife,  dau.  of  Edward  Jer- 


Sir  William  Calthorp  of 
Burnham  Thorpe,  co. 
Norfolk,  who  made  will, 
Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  1494. 
Earl.  MS.  10. 


Suffolk,  Kt.,  aged  40  in  1495  ;  of  the  ningham  of  Somerleytou,  widow  of 

Privy  Council  of  King  Henry  VII.  Lord  Edward  Grey,  and  of  ...  . 

Will,  P.C.C.  32  Hogan,  8  Feb.  1535.  Berkeley.  She  mar.  4th,  Sir  Edmund 

Inq.  p.m.  27  H.  8.  Life  in  Dictionary  Walsingham.  Her  will  P.C.C.  17  Chay- 

of  National  Biography.  nay,  1  May  1558. 


Jaue,  1st  wife,  dau.=Sir  William  Drury  of  Haw-=pE!izabeth,  dau.  and 


and  coh.  of  Sir 
Win.  St.  Maur. 
Buried  in  Haw¬ 
stead  chancel ;  ob. 
1517  s.p. 


stead  ;  of  the  Privy  Council 
of  Queen  Mary.  Brass  in 
Hawstead  church.  Will, 
P.C.C.  26  Dec.  1557.  Died  7 
Jan.  following. 


coh.  of  Henry  Sotehill, 
Esq.,  of  Stoke  Faston, 
His  Inq.  p.m.  20  H.  7. 
She  d.  1575. 


Sir  Robert  Drury  of  Hedgerley, = 
co.  Bucks.,  2d  son  ;  Lord  of  the 
Manor  of  Hedgerley  jure  uxoris. 
Will,  P.C.C.  26  Daughtry  and  96 
Leicester,  28  April  19  Eliz.  Manors 
in  Norfolk,  Suffolk,  and  Essex. 


N/ 


Elizabeth,  dau.  and  heir  of 
Edward  Brudenell,  Esq.,  of 
Hedgerley  and  Chalfont, 
son  of  Drewe  Brudenell, 
Blois.  Ob.  12  Dec.  1542. 
llarl.  MS.  1533. 


Sir  Henry  Parker  of=r=SirWilliamWode-=pElizabeth,  sole  dau.  and  heir — Sir  Dru  Drury  of  Lindsted,  jure  «a:om,=pCatherine,  sole  dau.  and 


Erwarton,  co.  Suffolk, 
K.B.,  son  of  Henry, 
Lord  Morley,  1st  hus¬ 
band.  Blois.  Ob.  1551 
before  his  father. 


house  of  Waxham, 
co.Norfolk.  Blois. 
Vice-Admiral;  2d 
husband  of  Eliz. 
Calthrop. 


of  Sir  Philip  Calthrop  of 
Cockthorpe,  co.  Norf.,  by 
Amata  Boleyn,  great-aunt  to 
Q.  Eliz.  Brought  moiety  of 
Riddlesworth  to  Sir  Dru. 


5th  sou.  Usher  of  the  Privy  Council  to 
Q.  Elizabeth;  Keeper  of  Mary,  Queen  of 
Scots;  heiruresump.toSirRobt.Drurv  of 
Hawstead,  1615.  Will. P.C.C.39Weldon, 
1613.provedl617.  Life,  Diet.  Nat.Biog. 


Sir  Thomas  Wing-=f=Elizabeth,  eldest  dau  ,=Henry  Reynolds  of 
field  of  Letheringham,  born  at  Lindsted,  1584  ;  Belstead,  co.  Suffolk, 
d.  1620.  See  Drury  c. 

Reynolds,  Jas.  I.,  B. 
and  A.,  for  her  betrayal. 


co.  Suffolk  ;  1st  hus 
band  ;  mar.  1602  ;  d. 
22  Jan.  1609. 


2d  husband,  1610. 

In  miserrime  pro- 
dita.”  Candler,  Dari. 
MS.  6071. 


Anne,  2d  dau.,  mar.  27  Aug. 
1604,  Sir  John  Deane  of 
Deane’s  Hall  in  Maplestead, 
co.  Essex.  His  will,  P.C.C. 
57  Hele.  See  Deane  pedigree, 
p.  154. 


heir  of  Wm.  Finch  of 
Lindsted,  co.  Kent,  Gent., 
mar.  1582;  d.  13  Sep.  1601; 
bur.  at  Lindsted. 


Frances,  3d  dau.,  b.  1585, 
goddau.  to  Q.  Eliz.;  mar. 
1607,  Sir  Robert  Boteler 
of  Watton  Woodhall,  co. 
Herts,  and  had  issue,  a 
dau.,  Jane.  Shed.  1602. 
Le  Neve’s  Knights. 


Sir  Dru  Drury,  only  son,  born  1588,  of  Riddlesworth,  co.  Norfolk  ;  M.P.: 
for  Norfolk,  1620  ;  for  Thetford,  1624  ;  created  a  Baronet,  3  Car.  ;  mar. 
28  June  1608.  Will,  P.C.C.  105  Audley,  23  Jan.  1630,  proved  31  Oct. 
1632.  Monument  in  Riddlesworth  chancel. 


-Anne,  eldest  dau.  and  coh.  of  Edward=.  .  .  Gleane  of  Hard- 
Waldegrave  of  Lawford,  co.  Essex,  Esq.  wick  in  co.  Norfolk, 
Brought  the  other  moiety  of  Riddles-  2d  husband.  Blois. 
worth  to  the  Drurys. 


L 


Susan,  dau.  of  Isaac=j=Sir  Dru  Drury  of=Mary,  2d  wife.  Blois. 


Jones  of  London 
sister  and  coh.  to 
Sir  Samuel  Jones 
of  Courteen  Hall, 
Northants.  Blome- 
field.  Norris.  LeNeve. 


Riddlesworth,  2d  Bart., 
born  17  Jan.  1611. 
Admon.,  P.C.C.  1647, 
to  Dame  Mary,  his 
relict. 


Will,  P.C.C.  19  Grey, 

10  Nov.  1647,  prov. 

11  Feb.  1650.  Had 
only  dau.,  Margaret 
Reynolds. 


TTTTT - 

Waldegrave,  2d 
son,  Robert,  Hen¬ 
ry,  Elizabeth,  and 
Anne,  died  in 
infancy. 


William  Drury  of 
Riddlesworth,  Esq., 
born  1615.  Will, 
P.C.C.  368  Alehin, 
proved  1654.  Lands 
in  Norfolk  and 
Essex. 


Catharine, born  1621; 
mar.  Henry  Bramp¬ 
ton,  son  of  Gawcly 
Brampton  of  Blo- 
Norton,  co.  Norfolk. 
Norris. 


Eleanor,  2d  wife,  dau.  of= 
Samuel  Harsenet  of  Fran- 
sham  Magna,  co.  Norfolk, 
Esq.,  widow  of  Wm.  Mar- 
sham,  Esq.,  of  Stratton 
Strawless.  Killed  in  the 
fatal  hurricane  of  1703. 


:Sir  Robert  Drury  of  Riddles-1 
worth,  3d  Bart.,  mar.  3d  Diana, 
dau.  of  George  Violet  of  Pink¬ 
ney,  Norf.,  Esq.  He  d.,  aged 
78  and  s.p.,  1712.  Monument 
in  Riddlesworth  chancel.  Diana, 
his  relict,  was  living  1736. 


=Elizabeth,  1st  wife,  sole  dau.  Drue,  devi- 

and  heir  of  Edward  Dunston  of  see  of  his 

Worlingworth, co.  Suffolk,  Gent.,  uncle,  Wm. 

by  Eliz.,  dau. and  ultimately  heir  Druryl654. 
of  John  May  hew.  Eliz.  Dunston,  Ob.  s.p. 
her  mother,  made  will,  Arch. 

Suff.,  15  July  1670. 


Diana,  mar.  Sir  William 
Wake,  Bart.,  of  Blis- 
worth,  Northants,  from 
whom  descends  Sir  Here- 
ward  Wake,  Bart.,  now 
(1899)  of  Courteen  Hall, 
Northants. 


The  Arms  of  Sir  Dru  Drury,  who  died  in  1617,  as  displayed  on  his  monument  in  Riddlesworth  chancel,  were  Quarterly, 
1,  Drury.  2,  Saxham.  3,  Freysell.  4,  Geddino.  5,  Brudenell.  On  a  coat  of  pretence,  Finch,  Argent,  a  chevron  between 
three  griffins  passant,  Sable,  with  a  crescent.  Or,  for  difference.  The  Crest  is  a  greyhound  courant,  Argent,  collared,  Or. 


358 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


30rurg  of  ^rtgerleg. 


Anne,  1st  wife,  dau.  of  Sir= 
William  Calthorpe  of  Burn¬ 
ham  Thorpe,  co.  Norfolk, 
who  made  will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Noiw.,  1494.  Earl.  MS.  10. 


:Sir  Robert  Drury  of  Hawstead,  co.  Suffolk,  Kt.,=Anne,  2d  wife,  dau.  of  Edward  Jerningliam 
aged  40  in  1495;  of  the  Privy  Council  of  of  Somerleyton,  widow  of  Lord  Edward 
King  Henry  VII.  Will,  P.C.C.  32  Hogan,  8  Grey,  and  of  .  .  .  Berkeley.  She  mar.  4th 
Feb.  1535.  Inq.  p  m.  27  H.  8.  Life  in  Dictionary  Sir  Edmund  Walsiugliam.  Her  will,  P.C.C. 
of  National  Biography.  17  Cliaynay,  1  March  1558. 


Joan,  1st  wife,  dau. — Sir  'William  Drury  of: 
and  heir  of  William  Hawstead  ;  of  the  Privy 
Council  of  Queen  Mary. 
Brass  at  Hawstead.  Will, 
P.C.C.  26  Dec.  1557.  Was 
30  years  old  in  1535. 


St.  Maur.  Buried  in 
Hawstead  chancel  ; 
d.  1517,  s.p. 


=Elizabetb,  dau.  and 
coh.  of  Henry  Sote- 
hill,  Esq.,  of  Stoke 
Faston.  His  Inq. 
p.m.  20  H.  7.  She  d. 
1575. 


- 1 

Sir  Robert  Drury  of 
Bucks.,  2d  son  ;  Lord  of  the  M.  of 
Hedgerley  jure  vxoris.  Will,  P.C.C.  26 
Daughtry  and  96  Leicester28  Aprill577. 
Manors  in  Norff.,Suff.  and  Essex;  Sheriff 
of  Bedford  and  Bucks,  1546,  1555, 1561. 


Hedgerley,  co.=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  and  heir 
of  Edward  Brudenel,  Esq., 
of  Hedgerley  and  Chalfont. 
Blois.  Ob.  12  Dec.  1542. 
llarl.  MS.  1533,  where  see 
ped.,  &c.,  of  Brudenell. 


M/ 


Roger  Drury, 
2d  son  ;  ob. 
s.p.  Blois 
and  Add.  MS. 

5523. 


Anne,  eldest  dau.,  mar. 
Robert  Woodleif,  Esq., 
of  Aylesbury ;  had  a 
son,  Dru  Woodleif. 
Drury  c  Woodlief,  Eliz. 
B.  and  A. 


Lucy,  3d  dau ,  mar. 
Robert  Tesclie,  Gent., 
and  had  son,  Edward, 
and  dau.,  Margery 
Tesche.  Earl.MS.1533. 
A  widow,  1613. 


Margaret,  2d 
dau ,  mar. 
Henry  Tren- 
chard,  Esq.  ; 
his  2d  wife. 
Blois. 


Elizabeth, 4th  dau. 
mar.  Rowland 
Hynde  of  Heds- 
w'orth  and  the 
Inner  Temple, 
Esq. 


Sir  Dru  Drury  of  Riddles- 
worth,  co.  Norff.,  Kt.,  5th 
son;  mar.  the  LadyWode- 
house,  and  had  issue. 

T3 

Drory  of  Riddlesworth 


I - 

.  .  .  . — Robert  Drury  of= 
1st  Hedgerley,  Esq., 

wife.  son  and  heir,  1577; 

Sheriff  of  Bucks., 
1578.  Admon., 
P.C.C.  2  March 
1592. 


=Anne,  dau.  of 
Nicholas  Boor¬ 
man  of  Brook 
in  the  Isle  of 
Wight.  Earl. 
MS.  1533. 


Edmund  Drury  of=pJane,  dau.  of  Thomas  Sir  William  Drury,  Kt.,=j=Margery,  dau.  of 


Horton  in  co.  Bucks. 
Earl.  MS.  1533.  4th 
son.  Blois  and  Add. 
MS. 5523.  Had  Roger, 
son  and  heir,  1602. 


Trenchard  of  Lychett 
in  co.  Dorset.  Earl. 
MS.  1533.  Sister  to 
Henry  Trenchard  ; 
living  1577. 


Drury  of  Ireland. 


3d  son,  dyed  lord  Justice 
Governor  in  Ireland,  1579; 
buried  at  St.  Patrick’s  in 
Dublin.  Harl.  MS.  1533. 
Diet.  Nat.  Biog.  Lands 
in  Weston,  Oxf.  Admon. 
P.C.C.  1580. 


Thomas,  Lord  Went¬ 
worth,  and  relict  of 
Lord  Williams  of 
Thame.  She  mar. 
thirdly  Sir  James 
Crofts. 


Sir  Henry  Drury  of^-Susan,  dau.  of  Hugh 


Hedgerley,  Kt , 
1603,  devisee  and 
next  heir  male  of 
Sir  Robert  Drury 
of  Hawstead,  1614. 
Ob.  1617.  Admon. 
P.C.C,  1619. 


Stukely  of  March,  co. 
Somerset,  Esq.  Her 
will ,  P.  C.  C.  1 7  Evelyn, 
prob.  25  Feb.  1640. 
To  be  bur.  in  Penn 
ch.  Her  mother’s  will, 
P.C.C. 20  Kidd, 1598. 


- 1 - 

Robert  Drury,  2d 
son,  ob.  coelebs. 
Blois.  His  grand¬ 
father,  1577,  left 
him  Cockfield  Hall 
in  Euston,  co. 
Suffolk. 


Aune, 

Elizabeth, 

Jane,  dau.  and 

Anne,  2d  dau. 

Elizabeth 

2d  dau. 

mar.  John 

coh.,  mar. 

and  coh.,  mar. 

3d  dau. 

— 

Banks  of 

Sir  Richard 

Sir  Robert 

and  coh. 

Mary, 

Shelford 

Chetwood  of 

Hartwell  of 

Add.  MS 

3d  dau. 

Parva,  co. 
Cambridge. 

Oxfordshire, 

co.  Nortlitou; 

5523. 

Living 

1613. 

Knt. 

living  1613. 

Henry  Drury,  eldest  son, 
ob.  s.p.  Earl.  MS.  1533. 
and  Add.  MS.  5523. 
Clerk  in  the  Court  of 
Chancery  ;  died  1606. 


William  Drury,  Esq  ,  born=Judith,  dau.  of  Wm. 
1597  ;  spent  his  estate  by  Payne  of  Higligate,  co. 
the  time  he  had  attained  Middx.,  a  London  Mer- 
his  25th  year.  So  in  Mr.  chant.  Candler.  Mar. 
Wingfield’s  book.  Candler.  14  Jan.  1618,  at  St. 
Living  1641.  Peter’s,  Cornhill. 


Robert  Drury, 
born  1602  ;  killed 
whilst  fighting  in 
the  Island  of  Rhe, 
1626.  Admon., 
P.C.C.  Feb.  1629. 


Frances,  born 
1598  ;  living 
1606.  — 
Mary,  born 
1600  ;  living 
1606. 


Sarah,  mar.  John 
renn  of  Penn,  co. 
Bucks,  Esq., execu¬ 
trix  to  her  mother 
1639. 


The  Arms  of  Drury  of  Hedgerley,  as  tricked  in  Earl.  MS.  1533,  are  Quarterly  of  sixteen.  1,  Drury  (with  the  tau  and 
the  mullets  pierced,  Gules).  2,  Freysell.  3,  Saxham.  4,  Brudenell,  Argent,  a  chevron,  Gules,  between  three  morions,  Azure. 
5,  Atorove,  Ermine,  on  a  chevron,  Gules,  three  escallops,  Or.  6,  ,  Gyronny  of  eight,  Or  and  .Sable.  7,  Blackett, 

Azure,  a  bend  cotised  between  six  cross-crosslets  fitchee,  Or.  8,  Bulstrode,  Sable,  a  buck’s  head  caboshed,  Argent,  in  the  mouth 
an  arrow  fessways  of  the  last,  on  the  scalp,  between  the  attires,  a  cross,  formee  fitchee,  Or.  9,  Knyffe,  Paly  of  six,  Argent 
and  Azure,  on  a  chief,  Sable,  two  swords  in  saltire,  Argent,  liilted  Or.  10,  ,  Per  fess,  Azure  and  Gules,  a  barnacle, 

Argent.  11,  ,  Azure,  a  barnacle,  Gules.  12,  Thorne,  Sable,  three  fusils  in  fess,  Argent.  13,  ,  Argent,  four 

cinquefoils,  Gules,  on  a  canton,  Sable,  a  crescent  enclosing  in  estoile  of  the  first.  14,  ,  Argent,  a  fess  daucettd,  Gules, 

in  chief,  three  leopards’  faces,  Sable.  15,  Argent,  a  chevron,  Gules,  between  three  squirrels  sejant  of  the  second.  16,  Drury, 
as  before.  Over  all  a  crescent  within  a  crescent  for  difference.  Crest,  a  greyhound  courant,  Argent,  collared,  Gules,  studded  and 
ringed,  Or,  eared,  Sable,  charged  with  a  crescent,  Or,  within  a  crescent,  Sable.  Motto,  “  Non  sine  causa.” 


®rurg  of  3frelairt>* 


JFitn^ral  fficrttf.  ,5,  to.  JHJ&  4820. 

Robert  Drury  of  Callow  in  y'-  County  of  Roscomon  Esqr  was  the  onely  son  of  Thomas 

Drury  of  Laughlin  in  the  County  of  Catherlogh  Esqr  and  of  Margarett  de  la  Freigne  daughter  of 
Robert  de  la  Freigne  &  of  Katherin  Butler  of  Ballyready  in  the  County  of  Kilkenny ,  wich 
Thomas  was  the  onely  son  of  Robert  Drury  of  Laughlin  aforesd  Esqr  &  of  Elizabeth  Carew , 

sister  of  Sr  Peter  Carew  IP,  call’d  Baron  of  Idrone  ( descended  with  other  Estates  to  ye  Careivs 
his  Ancestors  from  the  II eyres  generall  of  Raymond  le  Grose  <L  Robert  Fitz  Stephens,  two  of  the 
first  Conquerors  of  Ireland )  which  Robert  Drury  teas  2d  son  of  Edmond  Drury  of  Horton  in 
Com:  Bucks,  and  of  Jeane  daughter  of  Thomas  Trenchard  of  Lickett  in  Dorsett-shire  Esqr  &  sister 
to  Henry  Trenchard,  wch  Edmond  teas  If  son  oj  Sr  Robert  Drury  of  Hedgerley  in  Com:  Bucks 
IP  &  Brother  of  Sr  William  Drury  of  Weston  in  Com:  Oxon  IP,  Lord  President  of  Munster  in 

Anno  1576  &  Lord  Deply  of  Ireland  in  Anno  1578  ;  wich  Sr  Robert  was  2d  son  oj  Sr  Robert 

Drury  of  Hawsted  in  Com:  Suffolk  IP,  a  Privy  Counsellor  to  King  Henry  y'-  7th  &  King  Henry 
y°  8th,  and  Brother  to  Sr  William  Drury  of  Hawsted  afforsd  IP,  a  Privy  Counsellor  to  Qeen 

Mary.  The  first  mentioned  Robert  Drury  took  to  wife  Margarett,  daughter  of  Thomas  Lloyd 

Honor  Price  of  Cloone  in  the  County  Leitrim,  but  first  of  Flint-  <&  Denby-shires  in  Wales,  by 
whom  he  had  issue  5  sons  &  5  daughters  ( viz 1 )  Robert,  eldest  son  who  dyed  young,  John,  2d  son 
&  heyre  now  of  Hawsted  al’s  Callow  aforesd,  ivho  took  to  wyfe  Grace,  daughter  of  James  Walcope 
&  of  Margarett  Maxwell  of  Dromanelis  &  Finebroge  in  ye  County  Downe,  and  had  • Issue  j  sons  & 
If  daughters  ( viz.)  2  Johns,  2  Williams,  Valeria,  Henrietta,  Jeane  &  Mary,  but  all  dyed  young ; 
William  3d  son  died  ye  17th  of  Aprill  1680.  Ll  Edward  Drury  If  son  now  of  Kingsland  in 
ye  County  Roscommon,  who  took  to  ivife  Elizabeth  daughter  of  Sr  Francis  Gore  IP  &  of  Ann 
Parks  of  Sligo,  &  hath  issue  2  sons  &  6  daughters  (viz.)  John  eldest  son,  now  liveing,  Robert 
2d  son  dyed  young,  Margarett,  eldest  daughter,  Ann  2J,  Jeane  3d,  Elizabeth  Jf,  Frances  5th  & 
.  .  .  .  6th  daughter.  Major  Robert  Drury  5th  son  now  liveing  unmarryed.  Katherin,  eldest 
daughter,  died  young  ;  Elizabeth,  2d  died  young  ;  Margarett  3d  daughter,  marryed  to  John  Forster 
of  Tullaghan  in  the  County  of  Monoghan  Cl’ke,  by  ivhom  she  had  severall  children  ivho  dyed 

young ,  &  she  deceased  ye  25th  of  December  1679  :  Jeane  If  daughter  dyed  .  .  .  August  1 68) 

unmarryed :  Frances,  5th  daughter,  marryed  to  Michaell  Mosse  of  Bandon  Cl’ke  ( nephew  to  the 
Rt  Reverend  Richard  Boyle,  Bishopp  of  Laughlin  &  Femes,  &  Roger  Boyle,  Bishopp  of  Downe  & 
Conor,  &  afterwards  of  Clogher)  by  whom  shee  left  one  daughter,  Jeane  Mosse,  now  liueing 
unmarryed,  <fc  dyed  .  .  .  1690.  The  aboue  said  Robert  Drury  first  named  departed  this  Mortall 

life  in  the  63  yeare  of  his  age,  on  ye  13th  of  January  1673,  and  the  said  Ma/rgarett  his  wife, 
in  the  57  yeare  of  her  age,  likewise  deceased  on  y 8  3d  of  May  1677.  Both  were  buryed  with 
funerall  Rites  according  to  their  degrees  &  lye  interred  under  one  Tombstone  in  the  Chancel  (railed 
in  and  shingled  for  them  and  their  family’s  Buryingyolace,  before  the  late  Troubles,  but  in  that 
disorderley  Time  broke  dotvn)  in  the  Abby  of  Cloonshanvoyle  in  the  County  of  Roscom’on.  The 
truth  oj  the  premisses  is  Testified  by  the  Subscription  oj  ye  said  John  Drury  Esqr  2d  son  &  heyre 
of  y*  said  Robert  &  Margarett,  his  honored  Father  &  Mother.  Entred  the  8th  of  September  1712. 

J.  Drury. 

The  Arms  of  Drury  of  Ireland  as  depicted  on  the  Funeral  Certificate  of  Katherine, 
daughter  of  Thomas  Drury  of  Laughlin,  co.  Carlow,  and  wife  of  Sir  John  King,  Kt.,  are  : — 
Argent,  a  bordure,  Gules,  on  a  chief,  Vert,  a  cross  tau  between  two  mullets  of  the  first. 


Bnto>  of  Clapton. 


Armorial  Hearings. 

The  arms  allowed  to  Francis  Drury  of  Swaffham  Prior  at  the  Cambridge  Visitation  in 
1619  were  Argent,  on  a  chief  Vert  a  cross  tan  between  two  mullets  Or  pierced  Gules,  an  annulet 
of  the  last  indicating  descent  from  a  fifth  son.  Such  a  fifth  son,  Thomas  Drury  of  Candellers  in 
Hessett  (see  pedigree,  p.  346),  brother  of  Sir  William  Drury  of  Rougham,  might  well  have  been 
the  great  grandfather  of  Thomas  Drury  of  Fincham,  the  more  immediate  ancestor  of  the 
Cambridgeshire  Drurys.  Other  Suffolk  Drurys,  as  is  well  known,  made  suggestive  wills  in  the 
fifteenth  and  sixteenth  centuries,  but  their  connection,  if  any,  with  the  Rougham  family  has 
not  as  yet  been  adequately  investigated. 

In  St.  George’s  Visitation  of  Cambridgeshire  and  Huntingdonshire,  1684  (College  of  Arms,  K.  7), 
there  is  a  tricking  of  the  shield  of  William  Drury  of  Earith  and  of  his  son  Richard  Drury, 
High  Sheriff  of  those  counties  in  1678.  It  agrees  substantially  with  that  described  above,  but 
the  mullets  are  not  pierced.  The  Crest,  a  greyhound,  Argent,  which  seems  to  be  leaping  rather 
than  running  and  is  not  collared  or  ringed,  is  charged  with  an  annulet,  Gules,  for  difference- 
On  the  Drury  tombstones  at  Claydon  the  Arms  have  the  chief  with  the  cross  tau  between 
the  mullets,  but  no  sign  of  cadency,  and  the  Crest  is  simply  a  greyhound  courant. 


®Ul  cf  ®Ijantas  firnrg,  1558. 

The  tenthe  daye  of  ffebruarie  1558,  I  Thomas  Drowrey  of  Fynchm  the  elder  make  this 
my  testament  and  last  will.  ffyrst  I  bequeathe  my  soule  to  almightie  Godde  my  maker  and 
redemer,  to  or  Ladie  sayncte  Marie  and  to  all  ye  blessed  companye  of  heauen,  and  my  bodie  to 
be  buried  in  the  churclieyard  of  sayncte  Marten’s  in  Fynchm  besyde  my  ffather.  I  will  that 
Helen  my  wief  shall  haue  my  house  called  the  Swane,  also  my  cloose  liynge  in  Slaydgaytt 
whiche  I  bought  of  Robert  Sergente.  I  will  that  the  sayde  Helyn  my  wief  shall  haue  the  fyfte 
parte  of  all  my  householde  stuffe  and  sixe  melche  neytt  at  her  choyse  and  ten  poundes  when 
my  soune  Tliomas  cometh  at  the  age  of  one  and  tweutie  yeares.  I  give  her  one  horse  at  her 
own  choyse.  Thoms  Drowry  my  sonne  shall  have  all  my  house  and  lands  in  the  townes  and 
fields  of  Fynchm,  Shulden,  Garbylstrope  and  Streagytt,  vppon  condicdn  that  he  paye  vnto  Richard 
Drowry  my  sonne  a  hundrethe  marks,  to  be  delyvered  vnto  Richard  Drowry  my  brother  of 
Ryeche  and  William  Drowrye  my  brother  of  Elsworght.  I  will  that  they  delyuer  the  saide 
hundreth  markes  when  my  sayde  sonne  comys  to  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  I 
gyve  vnto  Fraunces  my  sonne  my  house  and  land  in  Stowbardowe  called  Stow  bryncks  when 
he  cometh  at  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  I  gyue  vnto  eujye  one  of  my  daughters 
twentie  poundes,  that  is  to  saye,  Marie  Drowrye,  Elsabeth  Drowrye,  Jane  Drowry  and  Margaret 


DRURY  OF  CLAYDON. 


361 


Drowry  as  they  come  to  the  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  I  gyue  vnto  Harry  Drowrye  my 
brother  one  parcel  1  of  a  house  called  iustyn’s  duryng  his  lief.  To  Willyam  Drowry  the  sonne 
of  Harrye  Drowrie  one  whyte  bullocke  whiche  I  bought  of  Thoms  Verley.  I  will  my  Execute's 
delyuer  vnto  Wiftm  my  brother  a  certayne  cloose  whiche  my  mother  bought  of  me.  I  will 

that  if  John  Haruy  of  Fynchm  paye  sixe  poundes  before  Whytesondaye  in  the  yere  of  or 
lorde  1560,  my  executors  shall  delyver  vnto  the  saide  John  fyue  acres  of  eirable  land  and 
meadowe  whiche  I  have  dede  and  state  of.  If  Thomas  my  sonne  dye  withoute  issue  I  will 

that  Richard  my  sonne  haue  all  my  house  and  lands,  and  if  Richard  dye  withoute  Issue  I  will 

Fraunces  my  sonne  haue  my  house  and  lands.  I  will  my  Executors  pforme  all  I  am  bounde 
to  do  of  the  executershippe  of  Helyn  Vyrley.  The  residewe  of  all  my  goodds  to  Richarde 
Drowrye  of  Rvche,  Wyiim  Drowry  of  Elsworthe,  my  brethren,  and  Thomas  Drowry  my  sonne 
whome  I  ordayne  my  Execute's.  I  desire  Richard  Drowry  and  Wiftm  Drowrye  my  brothers 

for  Goddes  sake  to  be  good  frendes  to  Thoms  my  sonne  and  the  other  of  my  children.  I  will 
that  they  have  for  theyre  paynes  three  poundes  a  piece.  Probatum  vicesimo  septimo  die  January 
1559  juramento  -Ricbi  Drowry  psonatr  et  Wiftmi  Drowry  ac  Thomse  Drowey  in  gsona  dci  Ricfti 
Executoru.  P.C.C.  9  Mellershe. 


WtU  of  MtUiarn  ^rtirn,  1567. 


The  xiiijth  day  of  September  1567,  I  Wiftm  Drwrye  of  Elsworth  within  the  Countye  of 
Cambridge  do  make  this  my  laste  will.  My  bodye  to  be  buryed  within  the  paryshe  Churche  of 
Elsworthe.  I  give  to  Etheldrede  my  wyfe  vi  of  my  beste  mylche  kyne  that  she  canne  chuse, 
fower  horses  beinge  worthe  in  money  viiju,  and  fower  Oxen  beinge  worthe  viij1',  all  my  bee  hyves 
»fec.  I  give  her  my  beste  stone  potte,  covered  withe  sylver,  &c.  To  Richarde  Drwrye  my  Sonne 
xlu  at  thage  of  xxi  yere.  To  the  same  Richarde  and  to  his  heyres  my  lands  in  Connington 
fielde,  and  for  lacke  of  heyres  I  wyll  the  same  to  John  my  Sonne.  To  Richarde  my  Sonne  my 
copye  in  Cadwell  Ende.  To  Richarde  my  Sonne  my  howses  and  landes  in  Henlowe  in  Bedford¬ 
shire,  and  for  lacke  of  heyres  to  John  my  Sonne  vppon  condicon  that  they  shall  paye  to 
Etheldrede  my  wyfe  everye  yere  duringe  her  lyfe  iiju  vis  viijd.  To  Margerye  Drwrye  my 
dawghter,  Marye  Drwrye  my  dawghter,  to  either  xxu  at  thage  of  xxi  yeres  or  at  the  daye  of 
her  mariage.  To  John  Drwrye  my  sonne  all  my  landes  in  Fincham  and  Stroged  in  Norff,  and 
for  lacke  of  heyres  of  his  bodye  to  John  Drwrye  my  brothers  Sonne.  To  my  Cosen  Wiftm 
Drwrye  my  godsonne  my  BufFe  leather  jerkyn.  To  my  Cosen  Thomas  Drwi’ye  in  Norff  my  newe 
Saddell.  Yf  yt  please  god  to  take  to  his  mercye  bothe  my  Sonnes  without  heyres  of  their 
body  then  I  wyll  that  John  Drwrye  my  brother’s  Sonne  shall  have  all  my  lands  in  Norff  or 
ells  where  payinge  to  my  two  daughters  Marye  and  Margerye  xl1' — that  is  to  eyther  of  them 
xx1'.  To  Hem’ye  Reynolde  my  Systers  sonne  x8.  My  brother  Richarde  shall  be  Supviser  of  this 
will.  The  Resydewe  I  give  to  John  Drwrye  my  Sonne  and  John  Drwrye  my  brother’s  Sonne 
whom  I  do  make  my  Executors.  Probatum  primo  die  Novembris  1570  iuramento  Johanni3  Drwrye 

senioris  Executoris.  P.C.C.  33  Lyon. 

2  Z 


362 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


Mil  of  iEticIjarft  Srurg,  1581. 

The  fower  and  twentithe  daie  of  Maye  1581.  Richarde  Drewry  of  Ixnynge  in  the  Countie 
of  SufF.  yeoman.  To  be  buried  within  the  Churche  of  Swaffham  Prior  in  the  Countie  of 
Cambridge.  To  the  poore  of  Swaffham  Prior,  Reache,  Ixning  and  Ellsworth.  I  give  vnto  Richarde 
Chenerie  my  godsonne  one  silver  Sault  at  his  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares.  Vnto  Phillipp 
Chenerie  the  daughter  of  John  Chenerie  one  silver  pott  at  her  age  of  one  and  twentie  yeares. 
Vnto  Phillipp  my  wiffe  all  my  gooddes  and  cattells  att  Ixnyng  (excepte  one  silver  mazer  whiche 
is  my  sonne  John  Drewryes,  and  one  stone  pott  covered  with  silver  whiche  is  John  Drewryes  of 
Lynne  and  sixe  silver  spoones  and  one  goblett)  vpon  the  making  of  a  lawfull  release  of  all  her 
dower  in  those  Landes  and  Teuemeutes  of  me  vnto  my  saide  sonne  John  Dreurye.  I  give  to 
Mary  Hasell  my  daughter,  after  the  decease  of  John  Hasell  her  husbande  ffortie  shillings  in  ye 
yeare  duringe  her  naturall  lyfe.  To  Ambrose  Hasell  the  sonne  of  John  Hasell  (yf  he  contynewe 
at  his  booke  and  studye,  soe  often  as  he  shall  take  degree  in  Schooles)  eche  tyme  fortie 
shillinges  and  at  his  fyrst  degree  twentie  shillinges  (more)  to  buye  him  bookes  withall.  Vnto 
my  daughter  Elizabeth  Holben  Tenne  poundes.  Vnto  Samuell  her  sonne  tenne  poundes  at  his 
age  of  one  and  twentie  yeare.  I  giue  to  Frauncis  Drewrye  the  sonne  of  John  Drewrye  sixe 
poundes  thirtene  shillinges  fower  pence.  To  Alice  Drewrie,  Ellen  Drewry  and  Katherine  Drewrie 
the  daughters  of  John  Drewrie,  to  eurie  of  theme  three  pounds  sixe  shillinges  eight  pence  at 
theire  severall  ages  of  one  and  twentie  yeares  or  dayes  of  marriage,  which  shall  first  comme. 
I  give  vnto  John  Drewrie  my  sonne  all  my  Landes  and  tenementes  wthin  the  Realme  of  Englande 
<fc  all  the  rest  of  my  gooddes  and  cattells.  And  I  ordeyne  the  saide  John  my  sonne  onely 
sole  executor  of  this  my  will.  And  I  shall  intreate  Robert  Holben,  clerk,  my  sonne  in  lawe 
to  be  Supervisour.  And  I  give  him  twentie  shillinges  for  his  paynes  therein.  Probatum 
vicesimo  nono  die  January  1853  Juramento  Johannis  Drewrye  executoris.  P.C.C.  24  Butts. 


©till  of  lamp  JHartlja  Intro,  1768. 

I  Dame  Martha  Drury  of  Harley  Street,  Cavendish  Square,  widow,  do  make  this  as  my 
last  will.  I  give  to  my  loving  sister  Mrs  Mary  Comyns,  widow,  one  thousand  pounds  in  money 
and  all  my  silver  plate  bought  since  the  death  of  my  husband,  Sir  Thomas  Drury  Bar*.  I  give 
vnto  her  all  my  Books  and  the  half  of  my  household  linnen,  China,  Liquors  and  kitchen 
furniture  and  likewise  the  pictures  of  the  two  Sir  John  Tyrrells,  &c.,  &c.  Likewise  the  sum  of 
ffifty  pounds  a  year  during  her  natural  life.  I  give  to  Mrs  Lucretia  Cockburn  now  living  with 
me  ffive  hundred  and  twenty  five  pounds  &  the  half  of  all  my  Linnen,  China,  Liquors,  &c.  I 
desire  that  she  may  have  a  handsome  suit  of  mourning  and  that  she  may  be  buried  at  Sywell 
when  she  dies,  at  my  expense,  and  I  give  her  fifty  pounds  a  year  during  the  term  of  her 
natural  life.  I  give  to  the  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire  my  yellow  Diamond  Ring,  and  to  the 
Countess  my  Ruby  Ring  set  round  with  Diamonds.  To  my  three  Grand  Children,  the  Earl  of 
Buckinghamshires  daughters,  twenty  pounds  each  to  buy  Rings.  To  Miss  Jocosa  Drury  my  three 
Dropt-Diamond  Ear  Rings,  my  White  Diamond  Ring,  my  Gold  Watch  and  Eture  (?)  my  Toylet 
Table  and  ffurnitures,  boxes,  &c.,  belonging  to  it.  I  give  to  the  Miss  Philipa,  Katherine,  Gores, 


DRURY  OF  CLAYDON. 


363 


Elizabeth  Wood  &  Do11  Rives,  my  four  Cousins,  fifty  pounds  each.  I  give  the  sum  of  fifty 
pounds  each  to  Geo.  Drury  <k  his  wife  of  Claydon.  I  give  the  sum  of  Twenty  pounds  to  Mr 
Picket  my  Apothecary,  and  Twenty  pounds  to  Mr  Fish,  Rector  of  Sywell.  To  Richard  Comyns, 
Esquire,  twenty  pounds  to  buy  a  Ring.  I  also  Direct  and  Desire  three  hundred  pounds  shall 
be  paid  to  Archibald  Murray  my  upholsterer  to  Interr  me  at  Sywell  near  Northampton  by  my 
late  husband  Sir  Thomas  Drury.  I  desire  that  all  my  Servants  may  attend  my  ffuneral.  The 
Rest  of  my  personal  estate  I  give  unto  my  two  Daughters.  I  appoint  the  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire, 
Miss  Jocosa  Drury  and  Mrs  Mary  Comyns  Executors  of  this  will.  This  second  day  of  June  1768. 

This  will  was  proved  the  sixteenth  day  of  June,  1768,  by  the  oath  of  Mary  Comyns, 
widow,  the  Sister  of  the  Deceased  and  one  of  the  executors.  Power  reserved  of  making  the  like 
Grant  to  the  Right  Honourable  John,  Earl  of  Buckingshire  [sic]  and  Jocosa  Catharina  other 
Jocosa  Drury,  Spinster,  the  daughter  of  the  deceased,  and  the  other  Executors  if  they  shall 
apply  for  the  same. 

This  will  was  proved  the  first  day  of  July  1768,  by  the  oath  of  the  Right  Honourable 
John,  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire,  one  other  of  the  Executors.  P.C.C.  235  Seeker. 


Brurg  of  Cambridge  aitb  of  Carttfj. 

From  St.  George's  Visitation  of  Cambridgeshire  and  Huntingdonshire,  1684,  i-n  the  College  of  Arms,  K  7. 


Richard.  Drury  citizen  of  London, - 
descended  from  the  Drurys  of 
Rougham,  in  com.  Norfolk  [sic], 
obijt.  circ.  ann.  1606,  cetat.  circ. 
45. 


- Catherine ,  Arms: — Drury  of  Hawstead  with  an  annulet  for  difference.  See 

dau.  of  Will.  page  360.  These  arms  are  taken  from  an  old  vellum  escotcheon, 

Bcswick  of  with  this  distinction  [the  annulet],  but  the  descent  does  not 
Horsmonden,  exactly  piece  to  the  Visitations  of  Norff.  and  Suff.,  which  are  to 
in  Kent.  be  consulted  ;  yet  this  match  with  Beswick  may  be  seen  C.  16, 69b. 


Wm.  Drury  of  Earith^Catherine,  dau.  of  Rich! — Mary,  d.  of  . 


Browne  of  Stow  in  1.  Ethelred,  wife  2.  Rachel!,,  marr.  to 


in  co.  Hunt,  gen.,  cetat. 
82  an.  1684. 

Wynde  of  Eanth,  in  co. 
Hunt.,  gen.  2  w. 

com.  Hunt.,  1  wife;  she  had  several 
children  icho  died  infants. 

of  Rob.  Corbet, 
citiz.  of  London. 

in 

.  Tulle  of  .  . 
Kent,  gen. 

r 

4.  Wynde,  now  liv¬ 
ing  unmard  cet. 
circ.  19  ann. 

i 

1 

1.  Catherine,  marr. 
to  John  Cholmley  of 
Credenhill,  in  com. 
Hereford. 

i 

3.  Alice,  marr.  to 
Joseph  Ives  of 
Wittlesey,  in  in¬ 
sula  Ely. 

i 

4,  Susan,  marr. 
to  Edw.  Young 
of  St.  Ives,  in 
com  Hunt. 

5.  Elizabeth  marr.  to 
Wm.  Wiseman  of 
Wittlesey,  in  ye  Isle  of 
Ely,  gen. 

1 

2.  Mary,  now 
living  unmar¬ 
ried  ann.1684 • 

1.  Richard  Drury,  of  the  town  of  Cam¬ 
bridge,  High  Sheriff  of  Cambr  <Sc  Hunt., 
circ.  an.  1678,  cetat.  circ.  30  ann.  1684. 


'-Priscilla,  d.  of  Rob.  Clap- 
thorne  of  Wittlesey,in  Ins., 
Ely. 


T 

2.  William  Drury  of  Earith,-j- 
in  com.  Hunt.  cet.  circ.  27, 
ann.  1684- 


I — l - 

1.  Richard,  cet.  12. 


TU 

1.  Elizabeth. 


1*1 - 

1.  Garland,  cet.  9. 

2.  William. 


■Elizabeth,  d. 
of  ..  .  Gar- 
land,  citizen 
of  London. 
'1 


3.  Joseph,  'now 
living  unmar¬ 
ried,  cet.  circ.  24 
ann. 


1.  Elizabeth. 

2.  Catherine. 


S‘  Ives  18 »  July  1684- 


[Signed]  Willh.  Drury. 


The  Editor  is  indebted  to  Mr.  Howard  Dru  Drury  and  the  Rev.  William  C.  Pearson,  M.A., 
Vicar  of  Henley,  near  Ipswich,  for  valuable  assistance  in  the  preparation  of  the  pedigrees  which 
follow. 

2  z2 


364 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Brurj)  of  jftncijam  anti  §?toaffl)am  IJrtor. 

Thomas  Drury,  of  Fincham,  in  Norfolk,  named  in  Subsidy  Roll  20  Jan.  1524  ;=F 
bur.  there  in  St.  Martin’s  churchyard,  22  July  1545. 


Thomas  Drury,1 
ofFincliam.Lord 
of  Talbot’s  Hall 
Manorl553.  See 
Blomefield  VII, 
346,  buried  12 
July  1559.  Will 
P.C.C.  9  Meller- 
she. 


Francis 

Drury. 


Elizabeth, 
mar.  John 
Parlett, 
1564. 


Mary,  bapt. 
1543  ;  mar. 
Edmund  An- 
glebright, 
1559. 


i — i - 

Jane  and  Mar¬ 
garet,  one  of 
whom  married 
.  .  .  Saunders. 


=Hellen  . 
who  was  bur 
1  Sept.  1576 
Their  child 
ren  were  un 
der  age  in 
1559. 


Mary ,=!=  Richard  Drury,  of— Alice,  2d=Phillipp,  3d 

wife,  bur.  wife,  relict  of 
at  Swaff-  John  Chenerie, 
hamPrior  by  whom  issue. 
1  Feb.  Her  Will  Arch. 
1565.  Sudb.  19  June 
1587,  proved  2 
i  Octoberfollow- 
ing. 


5th  dau. 
of  Robert 
March,  of 
Hadden- 
ham  and 
Ely,  co. 
Camb., 
1st  wife. 


Reach,  co.  Camb., 
1558 ;  of  Ixning, 
co.  Suffolk  24  May 
1581,whenhe  made 
Will  P.C.C.  24 
Betts, proved  1 583 ; 
bur.  in  Swaffham 
Church,  co.  Camb. 


William  Drury  of  Els- 
worth,  co  Cambr.  1558. 
By  Etheldred  his  wife, 
sister  of  Henry  Smith, 
M.D.  (who  remar.  .  .  . 
Burgess  of  co.  Lincoln), 
had  issue.  =j= 

Drury  of  Earith. 


Henry  Drury,  had 
issue  in  1558  a  sou, 
William  Drury,  pro¬ 
bably  of  Reach,  co. 
Camb.,  later  on. 

Margaret,  mar.  1st 
to  King,  and  2d  to 
Reynolds. 


Anne, 2d  wife, — John  Drury,  only  son,  of  Swaffham=f=Eleanor,  dau.  of  John  Mary,  wife  of  John  Elizabeth,  wife  of  Ro- 


survived  her  Prior,  co.  Camb.,  1580  ;  bur.  there  29 
husband.  Julyl605.  Admon. P.C.C. 20Sept.l606. 


Laverock,  of  Well,  in  Hasell,  1581,  by  bert  Holben,  clerk, 
co.  Norfolk.  whom  issue.  1581,  by  whom  issue. 


Francis  Drury,  of  Swaffham  Prior,  =j=Joane,  dau.  of  Wil- 


gent.,  b.  1577.  Entered  pedigree 
in  Cambridge  Visitn.  1619.  Harl. 
MS.  1534.  Will  P  C.C.  98  Seager, 
18  July  1633,  prob.  25  Nov.  1634. 


liam  Soame.  of  Cowl¬ 
ing,  co.  Suffolk,  gent., 
named  in  his  will. 
Arch.  Sudb.  1631. 


Alice,  nam¬ 
ed  1581  in 
her  grand¬ 
father’s 
will. 


Ellen, 

born 

1571, 

living 

1581. 


Catherine, 
b.  1575, 
mar.  1591 
to  Henry 
Smith. 


- 1 — i - 

Thomas 
Drury, 
b.  1586. 

Elizabeth. 


- i“n 

Margaret. 

Sarah. 

Anne. 


Edmund  Drury ,=f=Elizabetli,  dau. 
son  and  heir  of  John  Alston, 
1619  ;  b.  1607,  of  Stisted,  co. 
bur.  at  Swaff-  Essex,  gent, 
ham  1668.  She  d.  1684. 


Francis  Drury, 
2d  son,  b.  1608; 
mar.  Rose,  dau. 
of  ...  . 


John  Drury., 3d 
son,  b.  1619. 

Willm.  Drury, 
4th  son,  1633  ; 
b.  1621. 


Anne,  b. 
1695,  eld. 
dau  ,  wife 
of  ...  . 
Stallum, 
1633. 


Joan,  b.  1610,  2d 
dau.,  mar.  Joseph 
Siday,  1630. 


Sarah, 

1627. 


b.  1617,  d. 


Margaret,  b.  1615, 
wife  of  JohuCarde, 
gent.,  1633.  Cooke 
c.  Drury,  Chas.  I, 
B.  and  A. 


Le  Strange  Drury,  b.  1639.  Admon.  P.C.C.=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  John  Casborne,  gent.,  mar.  settlement 
January  1662  ;  ob.  vita  patris.  |  10  Oct.  1659.  Drury  c.  Drury,  Reynardson,  25,  48. 


Anne  Drury,  only  child,  b.  1661. 


- 1 

Thomas 
Drury, 
b.  1636.1 


Mary 


who  was  bur. 
at  Fincham,  6 
March  1594. 


,,=f=Thomas  Drury,  of  Fincham,  gent.,  bur.  16= 


July  1608.  Exor.  of  Thomas  March,  1589. 
Held  Fincham  Rectory  1573-85.  Will 
P.C.C.  95  Windebank,  1608. 


:Grace,  2d  wife,  dau.  of 
Richard  Buckworth, 
of  Wisbeach  ;  mar.  at 
Fincham  1595,  living 
1613. 


Richard  Drury,  bapt.  1551,  citi-= 
zen  and  draper  of  London.  Will 
P.C.C.  92  Bolein.  Bur.  in  St. 
Michael’s,  Crooked  Lane,  30 
Oct.  1603. 


I 


>1/ 


=Diana,  dau.  of  John 
Saltonstall,  bur.  7  Jan. 
1601.  Only  Grace  and 
Ellen,  her  daus.,  sur¬ 
vived  their  parents. 


Elizabeth,  2d  wife  of  Wm.  Gib¬ 
bon,  of  Watlington  and  Lynn 
Regis  ;  b.  1562  ,mar.  1583.  He 
d.  Dec.  1612.  She  renupt.  Wm. 
Pell,  Esq.,  of  Dersingham. 
Blomefield  VIII,  137. 


Thomas  Drury ,=j=Ursula, 


of  Fincham, 
Esq.,  b.  1601. 
Lord  of  Tal¬ 
bot’s  Hall, 
Manor. 


she  and 
her  hus¬ 
band 
living 
1633. 


Anne,  mar. 
1613Edmd. 
Clipsam,  of 
Manthorpe, 
co.  Lincoln, 
gent. 


Grace,  b.  1600, 
mar.  1616  Sy- 
mon  Clarke,  of 
Fishtoft,  co. 
Lincoln,  gent. 


Mildred,  mar.  1  Jefferyes, 
and  2  Soame.  Issue  ap¬ 
parently  by  both  hus¬ 
bands.  Drury  c.  Tandsey, 
Chas.  I,  B  and  A. 


- r~i 

Marie. 

Sarah, 
d.  unm. 
1628. 


L 


Thomas  Drury,  of  Fincham,  Esq.,  bapt. 
1621,  devisee  1660  of  Wm.  Jeffreys,  his 
cousin.  Lord  of  Talbot’s,  in  Fincham, 
1674  ;  dead  1697.  Drury  c.  Goddard, 
Collins  31,8,  By  Mary,  his  wife,  had  issue. 


Anne,  b. 
1626,  mar. 
1654  Tho¬ 
mas  Gar¬ 
rett,  Esq., 
ofLondon. 


Henry  Drury,  b.=pJoan,  dau.  Judith, 


1622,  of  Bexwell, 
audafter  ofHolme, 
clerk.  Will  P.C.C. 
18  Pye,  proved 
1672. 


of 

Caverley, 
of  Well, 
married 
1654. 


b.  1627, 

mar. 

1648, 

William 

Godbed. 


Samuel  William  Jeffreys  of  Dublin, 

Drury,  gent.  In  will  19  Dec.  1660 

living  names  “  Mr.  Thomas  Drury, 

1672,  son  of  my  uncle  Thomas  Drury, 

and  Mr.  Samuel  Drury  (of  Finch- 

others.  am)  my  kinsman,”  &e. 


Mary,  dau.  Grace,  dau. 

and  coheir  and  coheir 

1674.  1674. 


Henry  Drury,  of  Fincham, =f=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Richard  Harwich, 


gent.,  1697.  Plaintiff 
Drury  c.  Goddard. 


of  Wiggenhall  St.  Mary,  of  co.  Norff., 
gent ,  who  made  will  1693. 


— rm 

Thomas,  Mary,  Joan  and  John 
named  in  their  father’s  will ; 
under  age  1672. 


Etheldred. 


Elizabeth. 


— l 

Mary. 


1  For  other  Drurys  of  Swaffham,  down  to  1750,  see  extracts  from  the  Swaffham  registers  in  Daw’s  Suffolk  Collection,  Brit.  Mus. 
Add.  MS.  19127,  fo.  226. 


DRURY  OF  CLAYDON. 


365 


Brurg  of  #berstone  anti  (Saritl). 


Thomas  Drury,  of  Fiucham,  co.  Norfolk.  Hurl:- 
MSS.  1534 .  Named  iu  Subsidy  Roll  20  Jan. 
1524-5.  Buried  in  St.  Martin’s  church-yard, 
22  July  1545. 


There  is  a  lease  of  the  Manor  of  Ellysworth,  co.  Cam¬ 
bridge,  from  the  Abbot  of  Ramsey  to  Richard  Drury, 
yeoman,  of  Ramsey,  dated  21  October  1535.  Eyerton 
MS.  3519. 


Thomas  Drury,  of  Finch- 
am,  Lord  of  Talbots  Hall 
Manor,  1553.  Will  P.C.C. 
9  Mellershe,  10  Feb.  1558, 
proved  27  Jan.  1 559.  See 
Dkury  of  Swaffham. 


Richard  Drury,  of  Reach, 
co.  Camb.,  and  Exiling, 
Suffolk.  Will  P.C.C. 
24  Butts  1581,  proved 
1583  ;  bur.  in  Swaffham 
Church.  See  Drury  of 
Swaffham. 


- , — - 

Margaret,  mar.,  1, 

.  .  .  King;  2,  at  St. 
Martin’s,  Fiucham, 
.Thomas  Reynolds, 

9  Oct.  1543  ;  had 
son,  Henry  Rey¬ 
nolds,  1567. 


WilliamDrury,= 
of  Elsworth.co 
Camb.  veoman. 
Will  P.C.C.  33 
Lyon  14  Sept. 
1567,  proved  1 
Nov.  1570. 


=Etheldred,  sister  and  coh.=p. 


of  Henry  Smith,  M.  D.,  and 
of  Wm.  Smith,  citizen  and 
Salter  of  London,  Lord  of 
the  Manor  of  Colne,  co. 
Hunt.  Drury  c.  Drury, 
Jas.  1.  B.  &  d.  D.  3  31. 


Burges, 
2d  hus¬ 
band. 


Henry  Dru¬ 
ry,  devisee 
of  Thomas 
Drury,  his 
brother, 
1558. 


Richard  Drury,  citizen  and  haber¬ 
dasher  of  London,  1594.  Mar.  at 
St.  Dionis,  Backchurch,  26  April 
1601.  Will  P  C.C.  2  Meade.  24 
Dec.  1617,  probt.27  Jan.  following. 
Bur.  in  St.  Michael’s,  Crooked 
Lane,  30  Dec.  1617. 


^Catherine,  dau.  of  William 
Beswick.  Esq.,  of  Hors- 
monden  and  Spelmouden, 
co.  Kent,  Her  Will  P.C.C. 
34  Scroope.  She  d.  27 
March  1630,  bur.  at  Hors- 
mouden. 


John  Drury, 
2d  son  1567, 
of  King’s 
Lynn,  1581  ; 
mar.  twice, 
and  had  is- 


Margery, 
wife  of  Leon¬ 
ard  Stout, 
1617,devisee 
of  Richard 
Drury,  her 
brother. 


Mary, 

under 

age 

1567. 


Downhall  Burges, of 
Moulton,co.  Lincoln, 
gent.  Will  Cur.  Ep. 
Line.  1615,  had  son, 
John  Burges.  Howes 
c.  Drury ,  Jas.  I,  B. 
&  A.  * 


Mary,  1st  wife,  dau.  of=pWilliam  Drury,  Esq.,  of  Earith,  co.=j=Catheriue,  2d  wife,  dau. 
.  .  .  Browne,  of  Stow,  — 
co.  Huntingdon,  Camb. 

Visit.,  1684,  by  whom 
several  children,  who 
d.  infants. 


Hunt.,  b.  1602-3,  Lord  of  the  Manor 
of  Colne  1 632,  High  Sheriff  of  Cambr. 
and  Hunt.  1676  ;  aged  82  in  1684,  at 
the  Camb.  Yisitn.  Will  P.C1C.  179 
Duke,  1690. 


/K 


1 - 

Catherine,  eld.  dau., 
wife  of  John  Cholm- 
ley  of  Creden  hill 
in  com.  Hereford, 
1684. 


Mary,  2d  dau., 
d.  unmarried. 
Baker’s  North¬ 
amptonshire. 


- , - 

Alice,  3d  dau., 
wife  of  Joseph 
Ives, of  Whittle- 
sea.  in  the  Isle 
of  Elv,  1684. 


and  at  length  heir  of 
Richard  Winde  of  Earith, 
gent  Adm.  and  heir  of 
Kath.  Wynde.  her  mo¬ 
ther.  Mar.  1644. 


Etheldred,  b. 
1605, m.  1620 
Robert  Cor¬ 
bett,  citizen 
andgoldsmith 
of  London. 


Rachel,  b. 
1607,  mar. 
Richard 
Tulle,  of 
co.  Kent, 
gent. 


William  Drury, 
devisee  of  his 
uncles  Thomas 
and  Wm.  Drury. 
Was  this  Wm. 
Drury  of  Reach? 
See  page  368- 

- 1 — 1 

Catherine, 
b.1611, liv¬ 
ing  1629. 


Richard, 
b.  1614. 


Susan,  4th  dau.,  wife 
of  Edward  Young,  of 
St.  Ives.  co.  Hunt., 
1684.  Wife  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Cannon,  1694. 


Elizabeth,  5th  dau. 
wife  of  William 
Wiseman,  of  Whit- 
tlesea  in  the  Isle  of 
Ely,  1684. 


n — 1 


Joseph  Drury,  3d  son,  1684  ;  ob. 
s.p.  JEt.  circa  24,  a0.  1684. 

Winde  Drury,  4th  son,  1684 ; 
ob.  s.p.  HSt.  circa  19,  a0.  1684. 


Richard  Drury,  Esq.,  of: 
Cambridge,  Lord  of  the 
Manorof  Colne,  co.  Hunt., 
eldest  son  High  Sheriff 
of  Cambridgeshire  and 
Huntingdonshire  1676. 
Died  1682.  Will  P.C.C. 
24  Coker. 


r=j=Priscilla,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Ro-=Michael  Beaumont,  2d  husband, 
bertClapthorne,  Esq.,  of  Whit-  Rector  of  Waltham,  co.  Line., bap. 


James, 
3d  sou, 
died 
before 
1741. 


Robert 
Drury, 
4th  son, 
living 
1741. 


tlesea,  one  of  the  Gentlemen  of 
the  Privy  Chamber  to  Charles 
I.  Shed.  22  Jan.  1745,  and  was 
bur.  at  Witnesham,  iu  Suffolk. 
Her  will  is  dated  19  Nov.  1680. 


at  Bildeston,  co.Suff.,21Oet.l660. 
Of  Huntingdon,  clerk, 1704.  Died 
suddenly  11  Oct.,  bur.  atWitues- 
ham  14  Oct.  1710.  See  East 
Anglian,  N.S.,  Vol.  IV,  p.  127. 


William  Drury,  of  Earith,- 
co.  Hunt.,  2d  son,  83 1. 
circa  27,  a0.  1684.  Of 
Tempsford,  co.  Beds.  ;  b. 
1657,  living  1711. 


=Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Ro¬ 
bert  Garland,  citizen 
of  London.  Drury  c. 
Garland,  Reynardson 
178-22,  1st  wife. 


\1/ 

Drury  of  Blackheath. 


Clapthorne  Drury,  2d  son,  of 
Great  Carrington,  co.  Devon, 
gent.,  living  1741.  Anne,  his 
wife,  made  will  P.C.C.  35 
Auber,  17  Dec.  1729. 


Elizabeth,  eld.  dau.,  mar. 
Thomas  Skeeles,  of  Blunts- 
liam,  co.  Hunt.  They  were 
buried  in  St  Michael’s, 
Coslany,  Norwich. 


Priscilla,  mar.  Robert  Beaumout,  Rector  of  Witnes¬ 
ham,  co.  Suff.,  and  Vicar  of  St.  Lawrence,  Ipswich, 
who  died  25  March  1737.  She  died  12  Jan.  1749, 
aged  72,  and  was  bur.  by  her  husband  in  St.  Mary  le 
Tower,  Ipswich. 


Elizabeth  Kynne8-=  Richard  Drury,  of  Colne,  eldest  son,  of Joyce,  dau  and  ultimately  sole  George  Drury,  oth-pAmy,  dau.  of  John  Clarke, 


man,  widow,  1st 
wife,  1707.  Drury 
c.  Beaumont,  Rey¬ 
nardson,  445-31. 


Whittlesea,  co.  Caiub.,  gent.,  1704  ;  b. 
1673,  d.  1  Nov.  1738,  aged  65.  Will 
P.C.C.  148  Henchman,  28  Dec.  1731, 
prob.  12  July  1739. 


heir  of  Thomas  Beacon,  of  Il¬ 
ford,  Essex.  Mar.  settlement 
in  Oct  1709.  Admon.  to  her 
son.  P.C.C.  Feb.  175§. 


son,  Rector  of  Whit- 
ton  and  Claydon.co. 
Suffolk,  1711,  bur. 
there  1764. 


of  Ipswich,  mar.  at  Witnes¬ 
ham  18  May  1719,  d.  at 
Wherstead.bur.at  Claydon 
22  Jan.  1755. 


Sir  Thomas  Drury,  only  son  and  heir,  b.=j=Martha,  2d  dau.  of  Sir  John  Tyr- 


1711  ;  of  the  Inner  Temple,  Barrister  at 
Law.  Created  a  Baronet  12  Geo.  II. 
High  Sheriff  of  Essex  1740,  of  Nor  than  ts 
1748.  M.P.  for  Maldon  1741.  Lord  of 
the  Manor  of  Overstone,  co.  Northamp¬ 
ton.  Died  intestate  20  Jan.  1759,  bur. 
at  Sywell  in  that  county. 


rell,  of  Heron,  co.  Essex,  Bart., 
by  Mary,  his  wife,  dau.  of  Sir 
James  Doliffe,  of  Mitcham,  co. 
Surrey,  Kt.  Mar.  Oct.  1737. 
Her  Will  P.C.C.  325  Seeker.  2 
June  1768.  To  be  bur.  by  hus¬ 
band  in  Sywell  Church. 


George  Drury,  only  child,  Rectorof  Ak- 
enham  1744,  Vicar  of  Wherstead  1744- 
1761.  Rectorof  Claydon  1761  ;  b.  23 
March  1720,  bur.  there  22  Feb.  1807, 
aged  87.  Devisee  of  Dame  Martha 
Drury  1768,  relict  of  his  cousin,  Sir 
Thos.  Drury.  /R 


=Elizabeth,  dau.  and  heir 
of  the  Rev.  G.  Cavell,  of 
Bealings,  co.  Suffolk, 
mar.  at  Clayton  17  Sept, 
bur.  there  21  Aug.  1804, 
set.  86. 


Drury  of  Claydon. 


Thomas  James  Joseph 
Drury,  b.  4  Sept.  1738, 
bur.  at  Claydon,  Suf¬ 
folk,  1746. 


Mary  Anne,  eld.  dau.  and  coheir,  b. 
1740,  mar.  1761  John,  15th  Earl  of 
Buckinghamshire,  and  had  issue.  She 
d.  30  Dec.  1769. 


Jocosa  Catherine,  2d  dau.  and  coh.  ;  mar.  1770  Sir  Brownlow  Cust, 
Lord  Brownlow.  She  purchased  her  sister’s  moiety  of  the  estates,  and 
Lord  Brownlow  succeeded  to  the  whole  on  the  death  of  their  only 
child  M.I.  in  Belton  Church,  co.  Lincoln.  Died,  1772,  aged  22. 


366 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


©rurg  of  iSlacfeijeatfr. 


Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Robert  Garland,  citizen^  William  Drury  of  Earith  and  Godmanchester,  co.=Mary,  dau.  of  ...  of  Godman- 


of  London,  1st  wife.  She  d.  before  1699. 
Drury  c.  Garland,  Reynardson.  178,  22. 
Admon.  P.C.C.  1703  to  husband. 


Huntingdon,  and  of  Tempsford,  co.  Bedford,  younger  Chester.  Will.  P.C.C.  56  Leedes, 
brother  of  Richard  Drury,  Esq  ,  of  Cambridge  (see  proved  11  March  1711,  New 
Druky  op  Overstone),  born  1657,  living  1711.  Style. 


rTTT - 

Elizabeth,  eld.  dau. 

John,  2nd  son,  d.  s.p. 

William,  3rd  son,  d.  s.p. 

Catherine,  b.  1677  ;  liv¬ 
ing  1740  ;  mar . 

Humphrys. 


Garland  Drury, ; 
citizen  and  grocer 
of  London, of  New- 
gateSt.  1734.  Will, 
P.C.C.  214  Ock¬ 
ham,  proved  290ct. 
1734  ;  liveryman 
of  Grocers’  Co. 
1713. 


= Elizabeth,  d. 

of . 

Will  P.C.C. 
167  Brown, 
proved  1740; 
buried  with 
husband  in 
Christ  Ch., 
Newgate  St. 


Mary  Grundy, 
1  st  wife,  mar. 
1712  ;  had  four 
children,  died 
young,  besides 
William  Drury, 
who  died  on  the 
Guinea  Coast, 
aged  25,  s.p. 


=Dru  Drury,  citizen=pMary,  dau.  of  Dr.=Mary  Cholmley,3d  wife. 

mar.  1739  ; d. s.p.  1740, 


and  goldsmith  of 
London  :  of  the 
parish  of  St.  Al¬ 
bans,  Wood  St.  ; 
born  1688,  died 
18  April  1763-4  ; 
buried  at  Hutton 
co.  Essex. 


Hesketh,  Chaplain 
to  Queen  Anne, 
2d  wife,  married 
2  Jan  1722  ;  died 
18  Feb.  1739  ;  had 
seven  other  child¬ 
ren  d.  young. 


Mary,  widow  of  John 
Pedley  of  Wood  Street, 
London,  soapmaker,  4  th 
wife,  mar.  1742  ;  d.  8 
April  1753. 


I — T' 


John  Drury,  b.  1712, 
d.  1713. 

Garland  Drury,  b.  1716, 
d.  1717. 


Elizabeth  Drury,  b. 
1715,  living  1740  ; 
mar.  John  Dodd  of 
St.  John  Baptist, 
London,  1739. 


Elizabeth  Dru  Drury,  F.L  S.,  the  celebrated  entomologist,  of= 
Drury,  Enfield,  Middlesex,  and  Broxborne,  Herts;  b.  4  Eeb. 

b.  1727,  1725  ;  d.  15  Jan.  1804.  Bur.  at  St.  Martin’s  in  the 

d.  1764,  Fields,  London.  Life  in  Diet.  National  Biog.  See 

uumar.  Gent.  Mag.,  Vol.  74,  p.  85. 


i - 1 

=  Esther  Pedley,  mar. 
1748  ;  d.  1787  ;  bur. 
at  Enfield,  set.  62. 
Eleven  other  children 
d.  young. 


Jno.  Lewis — Mary  Drury,  William  Drury  of  Turnham  Green,  co.  Middx.  ;=j=Margaretta  Charlotte,  youngest  dau.  of  Dru  Drury,  b.  1767; 


Andre  of  Ge-  b.  1749,  b.  1752  ;  d.  24  Dec.  1817  ;  bur.  with  his  wife  in 

noa,  Italy.  d.  1825.  Trinity  Chapel,  Hammersmith. 


William  Welch,  Esq.,  of  Beaudesert,  co.  d.  1837  s.p. 
Warwick  ;  mar.  1759;  d.  27  March  1836.  came  insane. 


be- 


William  Drury,  b.  1794,  d. 
in  Chicago,  U.S.A.,  Dec. 
1848  ;  mar.  Rachel,  dau.  of 
—  Raw,  of  co.  Durham. 


Elizabeth 
Drury,  b.  1820, 
now  living  at 
Staindrop,  co. 
Durham. 


— I 

Wm.  Dru 
Drury,  b. 
1823,  d. 
1857  uu¬ 
mar. 


Mary,  b.  1790, 
mar.  1814  Ed¬ 
ward  Jenkins, 
Esq.,  of  Turn- 
hamGreen  She 
died  1646,  and 
left  issue. 

Dru  Drury  and 
Charles  Stuart 
Drury  d.  yng. 


Charlotte,  b.  1791, 
d.  1855,  mar.  1323 
to  Fredk.  Norring- 
ton,  Esq.  ,of  E  xe  ter, 
and  had  issue. 


Geo.  Drury,  b.  1795; 
d.  at  Plymouth  1871 ; 
mar.  1830  Elizabeth, 
dau.  of  —  Potter,  of 
Maida  Hill,  co.  Middx. 


Elizabeth  Hannah,  b. 
1835,  d.  1892,  mar. 
Thomas  White  of 
Plymouth. 


•TtTTl 
Four  sons  died 
young,  and  a 
dau.,  Henrietta 
Mary. 


Esther  Drury,  b. 
1797,  d.  at  Croy¬ 
don  25  April 
1886  unmar. 

Ellen  Barlow,  b. 
1S01 ;  mar.  1828 
John  Todd, Esq., 
of  Durham  ;  d. 
1877,  leaving 
issue. 


Henry  Dru  Drury, 
Esq.,  of  Blackheath, 
Kent ;  b.  1799,  d.  9 
April  1861,  bur.  at 
N  unhead  ;  mar. 
1836  Rosina  Au¬ 
gusta,  youngest  dau. 
of  John  George  Po¬ 
land,  Esq.,  d.  26 
May  1891,  aged  78, 
bur.  at  Nunhead. 


Thomas  Rus¬ 
sell  Drury,  b. 
1804,  d.  1851 
bur.  at  Nun- 
head;  mar. 
Louisa,  d.  of 
—  Boobyer, 
Esq. ,  of  Man¬ 
or  House. 
Dulwich, 
Surrey. 


Charles  Dru  Drury, 
of  Blackheath,  born 
1838,  died  30  Aug. 
1872  at  Conway, 
North  Wales,  bur. 
there ;  mar.  1832 
Sarah,  daughter  of 
Thomas  E.  Carter, 
Esq.,  of  Lee,  Kent. 


Henry  Dru  Drury, of  Kings¬ 
ton-on-Thames  and  Ma¬ 
deira,  b.  1837,  d.  10  Oct. 
1888  at  Funchal, mar.  1867 
to  Margaret  Pelham,  2d 
dau.  of  Rev.  A.  B.  Power, 
F.G.S.,  of  Blackheath.  Re¬ 
married  1890  to  Edw.  G. 
Brooker,  Esq. 


Thomas  Dru  Drurj’, 
of  Christ  Church 
and  Hawkes  Bay, 
New  Zealand,  born 
1840,  died  at  Croy¬ 
don  16  November 
1875,  buried  at 
Nun  h  eadCemetery , 
unmarried. 


Edward  Dru  Drury, 
F.R.I.B.  A.,  of  Black¬ 
heath,  Col.  2d  West 
Kent  Volunteers,  b. 
1841,  mar.  1870 
Clara  Howard, 
youngest  dau.  of 
James  Drew,  Esq  , 
of  Blackheath. 


Rosina  Poland 
Drury, b.1843, 
d.  1844,  bur. 
at  Nunhead. 

Frederick  Dru 
Drury,  born 
1844,  unmar¬ 
ried. 


Ellen  Drurv, 
b.  1846,  d. 
1870,  mar. 
1866,  Alex¬ 
ander  Town- 
end,  Esq.,  of 
Blackheath. 
She  bur.  at 
Nunhead. 


Margaretta 
Rousette 
Drury  and 
Mary  Louisa 
Drury,  now 
living  1S99. 


Edward  Guy  Dru  Drury,  of  Grahamstowu, 
South  Africa,  M.D.  and  B.S.,  Loud.  Born 
1871,  mar.  1898  Jean  Aytouu,  youngest  dau. 
of  the  late  M.  A.  Eason  Wilkinson,  M.D., 
F.R.C.P.,  of  Greenheys,  Manchester,  and 
Middlethorpe  Hall,  Yorks. 


Agnes  Clara  Drury, 
b.  1873. 

Howard  Dru  Drury, 
b.  1876. 


Roger  Dru 
Drury,  b. 
1878;  H.M. 
Consular 
Service, 
Peking. 


- 1 — i - 

Godfrey  Dru  Drurv, 
b.  1880. 

Clement  Dru  Drury, 
b.  1882. 


Bernard  Dru  Drury, 
b.  1883,  d.  1  June 
1898. 

Dorothy  RoseDrury . 
b.  1885. 


Charles  Dru  Drury,  of  Gertrude  Frances  Drury,  b. 
Sunderland,  b.  1863  ;  1865  ;  mar.  1888,  Charles 

mar.,  1898,  Winifred  Osborne  Lubbock  Power, 
Mary  Sparke,  2d  dau.  Esq. ,  of  Madeira,  youngest 
of  the  late  Henry  Rit-  son  of  Rev.  Alex.  B.  Power, 
son,  of  Sunderland.  late  of  Blackheath. 


TT 


Jessie  Florence  Elsie  Roth  well 
Drury,  b.  1867  ;  Drury,  b.  1869. 


Walter  Emmersou  Drury, 
of  Ceylon,  born  1866  ; 
mar.  1899  Beatrice  Mary,  married,  1898, 
elder  daughter  of  Thomas  Charles  Macken-  Wilfred  Dru 
Shuckforth  Grigson,  of  zie,  Esq.,  of  Sun-  Drury,  b.  and 
Colombo.  derland.  d.  1870. 


Rev.  Alfred  Dru  Drury, 
b.  1871  ;  Magdalen  Coll. 
Camb.,  B.A.  1893,  priest 
1895  ;  curate  of  St. 
John’s,  Horsley  Down, 
S.E. 


DRURY  OF  CLAYDON. 


367 


Drurg  of  Clagtion. 


George  Drury,  fifth  sou  of  Richard  Drury,  Esq.  of=j=Amy,  dau  of  John  Clarke,  of  Ipswich,  mar.  at  Wit- 


Cambridge  (see  pp.  363,  365),  Vicar  of  Henley,  co. 
Suffolk,  1732-36  ;  Rector  of  Claydon,  1711  ;  buried 
there  1764. 


nesham,  18  May  1719  ;  d.  at  W  herstead  ;  bur.  at 
Claydon,  co.  Suffolk,  22  Jan.  1755. 


George  Drury,  only  child,  b.  23  Mar.,  1719/20  ;  Rector  of  Akenham,  co.  Suffolk,  1744  ;  Vicar=pElizabeth,  dau.  and  heir  of  the  Rev.  G.  Cavell, 


of  Wherstead,  1744 — 1761 ;  Hector  of  Overstoue  and  Little  Billing,  co.  Northton,  by  dispensa¬ 
tion,  1761 — 1807.  Succeeded  his  father  as  Hector  of  Claydon,  1761.  Devisee  of  Dame 
Martha  Drury,  his  cousin,  1768.  Born  23  March  1720.  Buried  at  Claydon,  22  Feb.  1807, 

aged  87. 


Elizabeth,  bap.  24  Sept.  1745,  d.  Amy  Drury, 
1841;  mar.  Samuel  Montgomery,  bap.  5  Oct. 
Lt.-Col.  of  12  Infantry,  who  d.  1747,  bur. 
at  Great  Bealings  and  was  bur.  5  December 
at  Claydon  19  June  1795.  1749. 


M  iriam,  bap.  1 7  Jan. 
1749  ;  mar.  7  Nov. 
1795,  Samuel  Duke, 
M.D.,  of  Whitton, 
to.  Suff. 


George  Drury  ,=j=  Elizabeth,  dau  of  Richard 


Rector  of  Clay¬ 
don  1807,  for¬ 
merly  Rector  of 
Tilbrook,  Beds; 
b.  20  March, 
bap.  5  April 
1754;  d.  3  July, 
bur.  14  July 
1830  at  Clay¬ 
don. 


Moore,  of  Kentwell  Hall, 
Suff.,  mar.  at  Claydou  3 
June  1784,  d. at  Tilbrook 
30  Dec.  1796,  bur.  at 
Claydon  5  Jan.  1797. 


Thomas  Drury,  Admiral  R.N.,: 
bapt.  26  Sept.  1750  ;  d.  at 
Bruges  5  Sept.  1 832(  Gent.  Mag. ) 
One  of  the  eight  Admirals 
who  bore  Lord  Nelson's  coffin 
into  Westminster  Abbey. 

- — - 1 - J  ) — j~ 

Susanna,  dau.  of  Rev.  John=r  Richard  Vere  Drury,  3d=p Frances,  1st  wife, 


Amy,  bap.  27  April 
1751,  d.  1839  ;  mar. 
Rev.  William  Butts, 
Rector  of  Glems- 
ford,  co.  Suff. 


of  Bealings,  Suffolk;  mar.  at  Claydon  17  Sept. 
1744  :  died  15  Aug.,  bur.  at  Claydon,  21  Aug. 
1804,  aged  86. 


:Elizabeth, 
dau.  of  .  .  . 
She  died  at 
Kingston, 

J  amaica,  20 
Dec.  1845. 


Gibson,  Rector  of  St.  Magnus, 
London  Bridge,  and  grand- 
dau  of  Dr.  Gibson,  Bishop 
of  London,  mar.  12  June 
1788,  d.  at  Kingston  1835. 


son,  bap.  10  Dec.  1755  ; 
died  6  April  1833  at 
Kingston,  near  Ports¬ 
mouth.  See  Gent.  Mag. 
Capt.  R.N. 


Robert  Drury, 
resided  at 
Corfu. 


Anna,  married 
Capt.  Agnew. 


Caroline,  mar.  the  Rev. 
John  Stewart,  Rector  of 
Gilston. 


only  dau.  and  heir 
of  Sir  George  Van- 
deput,  Bart.,  by 
M  ary , his  wife,  dau. 
of  Baron  Augustus 
Shutz,  of  Shotover 
House,  co.  Oxford. 
She  d.23  February 
1787,  aged  30;  bur. 
at  Claydon. 


George  Drury,  eldest 
son,  drowned  in  the 
North  Sea,  ob.  as  is 
supposed  s.p. 

Charles  Thomas  Au¬ 
gustus  Drury,  b.  18 
Aug.  1800  at  Clay¬ 
don;  d.at  Jamaica  24 
Aug.  1822,  s.p.  {Mar¬ 
shall's  Naval  Biog.). 


I - 

George  Vandeput= 
Drury,  of  Shotover 
House,  bap.  at  Clay¬ 
don  7  May  1777  ;  d. 
25  Nov.  1849.  s.p. 
His  nephew,  Richard 
Drury,  was  his  heir. 


1 


:Charlotte  Jane, 
eldest  dau.  of 
H  enry  Thomp¬ 
son,  of  Kirby 
Hall,  York¬ 
shire  ;  died  22 
Feb.  1847. 


Augustus  Vere: 
Drury,  Capt. 
R.N.,  b.  1778; 
d.  9  February 
1845  at  South- 
all,  co.  Middx. 


=Maria,  dau.  of= 
Capt.  Charles 
Smyth,  bro.  of 
SirWm.Smyth, 
of  Hill  Hall, 
Essex;  1st  wife, 
mar.  1803. 


=Jane,  2d  wife, 
dau.  of  Sir  Geo. 
Williams,  Bart., 
mar.  1833,  by 
whom  two  daus. 
O' Byrne’s  Naval 
Biog. 


— n 

Frances  Shutz  Drury, 
bap.  29  May  1788  ;  mar. 
Capt.  Hawkins,  E.I.C.S., 
and  had  issue. 

Richard  Vere  Drury,  d. 
at  Woolwich. 


Richard  Drury,  only  son,  d.  7  Dec.  1855,  s.p. 


Emma  Vere  Drury,  mar.  Edward  Batt. 


Elizabeth  Drury,  born  8  Aug.,  George  Drury,  only  son,  Lieut,  of  the  33d=pAnne,  dau.  of  Mary  Drury, born  at  Tilbrook  10  March  1792; 


bap.  28  Sep.  1784  at  Tilbrook,  Regiment  of  Infantry,  severely  wounded  at 
co.  Beds.  ;  d.  unmar.  5  Dec.,  Waterloo  ;  born  at  Tilbrook  30  March  1789  ; 
bur.  10  Dec.  1842  at  Claydon.  d.  at  Bruges  5  Oct.  1832. 


Jevitt  Hedding,  mar.  at  Claydon  12  May  1813  James  Tyley, 
of  St.  Neots,  co.  Rector  of  Great  Addington,  co.  Northampton  ; 
Huntingdon.  d.  at  Woodford,  co.  Northampton,  1884. 


George  Drury,  Rector  of  Clay¬ 
don  and  Akenham  1846,  b.  2 
March  1819;  d.  3  December, 
bur.  at  Claydon  7  December 
1895,  aged  76. 


Ann  Mary  Drury,  born  at 
Claydon  3  Sept.,  bap.  9  Oct. 
1849  ;  d.  3  April,  bur.  8 
April  1 882. 


Anne  Mary,  dau.  of  Edward  Francis, 
of  Martham,  co.  Norfolk,  b.  19  Oct. 
1826;  mar.  7  Dec.  1848;  d.  at 
Brighton  6  Feb.,  bur.  at  Claydon  11 
Feb.  1881,  set.  54. 


Anne  Elizabeth  Drury,  b.  at  Grundisburgh  1822  ; 
mar.  29  Sept.  1867  Thomas  Richard  Agnew,  son  of 
Thomas  Agnew  of  H.M.  Regt.  of  Infantry  ;  d.  23 
June  1848,  on  his  passage  from  Gibraltar  to  England, 
off  Cape  St.  Vincent. 


Thomas  Drury, 
buried  at  Clay¬ 
don,  9  April 
1825,  aged  10 
weeks. 


Drue  Drury,  born  HaviseDrury,  Ellen  Drury,  b.  15  July  Agnes  Drury,  b.  24  Jan.  1858;  mar.,  13 
22  Dec.,  bap.  at  born  3  Aug.,  1856  ;  mar.  3  June  1880,  April  1880,  John  James  Warrington 
Claydon  8  Feb.  bap.  12  Sept.  Charles  Barstowe  Theobald,  Rogers,  Rector  of  Bramfield,  co.  Suffolk, 
1852.  1854.  Admiral  R.N.,  and  has  issue,  and  has  issue. 


George  Drury,  of= 
New  Zealand,  b. 
22  March,  bapt. 
20  April  1851. 


:Jeannie  Mary,  dau. 
of  Robert  Burns,  of 
Nelson,  New  Zea¬ 
land,  mar.  1880. 


Sarah  Drury,  b.  29  Oct.  1859  ;  mar.  14  Katharine,  Francis  Drury, 
June  1892,  Cecil  Fitzroy  Wilson,  Rector  Drury,  born  b.  4  Feb.  1864; 
of  Stowlangtoft,  co.  Suff.,  and  after  17  Jan.,  bap.  bur.  11  May 
Vicar  of  Southgate,  Middx.,  and  bas  1  April  1862.  1877,  aged  13. 

issue. 


Bridget  Drury,  b.  22  Aug. 
1866  ;  mar.  16  Feb.  1897, 
Victor  Emanuel  Boucneau, 
younger  son  of  the  late  Rev. 
J.  H.  Boucneau. 


Agnes  Mary  Drury,  b.  at  Wellington, 
New  Zealand,  14  April  1881. 


Isabel  Evelyn  Drury,  b.  at  Wellington, 
New  Zealand,  19  July  1883. 


George  Robert  Drury, 
b.  30  June  1885. 


368 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Brtirg  of  (Sreat  Dunham, 


William  Drury,  of  Reach,  co.=pAnne,  sister  and  coheir  of  Henry  Smith,  M.D., 
Cambridge.  Drury  e,.  Watson,  and  of  William  Smith,  Lord  of  the  Manor  of 

Colne,  co.  Hunt.  Drury  c.  Drury,  James  J, 
B.  cfc  A.,  and  sister  to  Etheldred  Smith,  who 
mar.  William  Drury  of  Elsworth.  See  Detjky 
of  Fincbam  and  Swaffham  Prior. 


Chas.  1.  B.  A.  DD.  45,  21. 
A0  1627  when  both  he  and  his 
wife  were  dead.  At  Swaff¬ 
ham  Prior  in  Nov.  1569. 


John  Drury,  of  Sutton’s  Hospital,  gent.,  in 
Will,  P.C.C.  27  Russell,  28  Jan.  1682,  names 
his  brother  William  Drury  of  Greenwich,  his 
sister  Towers,  his  kinsmen  Roger  Drury  of 
London,  gent.,  and  Mr.  Jeremy  Drury,  citizen 
and  grocer,  of  London. 


Ellen,  relict= 

of . 

Marsh,  mar. 
settlement 
5  Nov.  11 
Chas.,  sur¬ 
vived  her 
2d  husb. 


= Jeremy  Drury,  a  wealthy  citizen  aud=j=Mary,  sister  and  heir 


grocer  of  London,  s.  and  h.,  bapt.  at 
Swaffham  Prior  Nov.  1569  ;  lived  and 
died  at  Rampton,  co.  Camb.  Drury  c. 
Drury,  Okas.  I,  DD.  64,  108.  Will 
P.C.C.  44  Coventry  22  Feb.  1689;  prob. 
20  April  1640.  Inq.  p.m.  16  Car. 
Had  Bevis  Hall  in  Wisbeach,  &c. ,  &c. 
Buried  at  Rampton  27  March  1640. 


of  Robert  Holland,  of 
Tunstall,  co.  Devon, 
Ksqre.,  d.  before  her 
husband.  Drury  o. 
Drury  Chas.  T,  DD.  9, 
23.  Mar.  5  Dec.  1601  in 
St.  Dionis  Backchurch. 


Theodore=p 
Drury, 
devisee 
of  his 
brother, 
Jeremy 
Drury, 

1639. 


- 1  i  i - 

William  Drury, 
Drury  c.  Drury, 
Chas.  I,  DD.  64, 
108. 

Anne,  bapt.  at 
Swaffham  1571, 
&  Dorothy  1573. 


Joan  Marsh, 
named  1639 
in  her  step¬ 
father  Dru¬ 
ry’s  will. 


William  Drury,  bapt.  9  Feb.  1608  at  St.- 
Miehael,  Cornhill,  only  child.  Of  Wisbeach,  co. 
Camb.,  gent.,  1641.  Drury  c.  Drury,  Chas.  I , 
DD.  12,  54,  after  of  St. Katherine’s,  co.  Middx., 
gent.,  dead  1686.  Sold  Bevis  Hall,  in  Wis¬ 
beach  &c.,  to  Thos.  Drury,  of  Lincoln’s  Inu. 


•.  .  .  sister  of  Thomas 
&  Molineaux  Audley. 
Drury  c.  Drury ,  Chas. 
I,  DD.  62,  123,  and 
niece  of  Wheatly 
Audley,  Esq. 


71 — 1 — 
William 
Drury,  liv¬ 
ing  1639. 

A  lice,  mar. 
in  1639. 


- 1 — 1 

Elizabeth. 


Anne,  wife 
of  .  .  .  Go- 
vie  1639. 


Thomas  Drury,  of: 
Downham  Market, 
after  of  Rampton, 
co.  Cm  mb  ;  executor 
of  his  brother  Jer- 
emv  Drury  1640. 
Will  P.C.C.  123 
Fines, 30  April  1647, 
proved  29  June 
following.  Bought 
Great  Dunham, 
1630.  Carthew's 
History  of  Laun- 
ditch. 


Anne 
Waters, 
married 
at  St. 
i  Martin’s, 
Fiuch- 
am,  20 
Novem. 
1603, 
was 
living 
1647. 


Robert  Drury,  son  and  heir,  under  age  1639,  of  Thet- 
ford,  co.  Norfolk,  gent.,  1661.  Drury  c.  Drury, 
Bridges  I,  47.  Joined  his  father  in  sale  of  Bevis 
Hall,  in  Wisbeach,  to  Thomas  Drury  of  Lincoln’s 
Inn,  1671.  Drury  c.  Drury,  Mitford  II,  227,  100. 


William  and  Jeremy  Drury,  living  1639  ; 
apparently  dead  1648,  when  admon.  of 
Jeremy  Drury,  their  grandfather,  was 
granted  to  Robert  and  Elizabeth  Drury, 
his  grandchildren . 


Elizabeth,  wife  of  Francis 
Parlett,  of  Downham,  co. 
Norfolk,  1673.  Drury  c. 
Drury,  Mitford  II,  227, 
100. 


Dorothy,  bapt.  at 
Fincham  1603,  wife 
of  Thomas  Parlett, 
and  had  issue  1647. 


Anne,  bapt  at  Fincham  1605  ;  wife  of  James  Gogle 
of  Aylsham,  Norfolk,  gent.,  and  had  issue  1647. 
Was  a  widow  in  1672,  and  executor  of  Thos.  Drury, 
her  brother,  of  Lincoln's  Inn. 


Alice,  mar.  Thomas  Winter  of  Boughton, 
co.  Norff.,  clerk,  and  had  issue  1647. 
She  reuupt.  Henry  King,  an  attorney. 
Drury  c.  Winter,  Whittington  78. 


- 1 

.  .  .  mar. 
William 
Crick,  & 
had  issue 
1647. 


William  Drury,  of= 
Downham  Market  and 
of  Hellesdon,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk,  brewer  ;  d.  in 
London.  Admon  in 
P.C.C.  12  June  1673. 


r~r 


Thomas  Drury. 
Elizabeth. 


Marga  et=j=Richard  Drury,  bapt.  at  Fineh-=j=Anne,  2d  wife,  dau.  of  Anthony 


Parlett, 
1st  wife, 
dead 
1653. 


1608,  of  Great  Dunham, 
co.  Norfolk,  gent.  Will,  Archd. 
Norwic.,  21  Aug.  1670,  proved 
25  Nov  See  Carthew’s  His¬ 
tory  of  Launditch. 


Williamson,  and  relict  of  Roger 
Spensley  of  Clench  Wharton,  co. 
Norfolk,  gent.,  who  made  will 
7  March  1650.  Drury  c.  Spens¬ 
ley,  Bridges  I,  32. 


Richard  Drury,  of  Lincoln’s 
Inn,  co.  Middx.,  gent.,  1664, 
b.  1644  ;  of  Caius  Coll., 
Camb.,  1661  ;  d.  1666  s.p., 
bur.  at  Great  Dunham. 


Francis  Drury,  son  and  heir  1670,  of  Great  Dun-  Thomas  Drury, 
ham,  co.  Norfolk,  gent.  Drury  c.  Drury,  Mitford  of  Great  Fran- 
77,  227,  100  ;  b.  1646  ;  of  Caius  Coll.,  Camb.,  sham,  co.  Nor- 
1664  ;  heir  to  his  uncle  Thomas  Drury,  1672  ;  ob.  folk,  b.  1661, 
s.p.  1686.  Estates  to  his  cousin,  William  Drury,  living  1670. 


Thomas  Drury,  bapt.  at  Downham 
Market  1618,  of  Lincoln’s  Inn,  co. 
Middx.,  Esqr.,  B.A.  Caius  Coll., Camb., 
1638.  Admon.  P.C.C.  lODec  1672,  ob. 
unm  and  s.p.  Estates  to  Francis 
Drury,  his  nephew.  Bought  Bevis 
Hall  in  Wisbeach,  1671. 

m — 1 — n 

Mary,  Elizabeth, 


Sarah,  Eleanor, 
Margaret,  and  Re¬ 
becca,  all  living 
1670. 


William  Drury,  cousin  and  heir  of=Susan, 
Francis  Drury,  of  Great  Dunham,  living 
living!  696.  Drury  c.  Edwards,  Rey-  1691. 
nardson  139,  60.  Sold  Great  Dun¬ 
ham  estate  to  John  Turner  1691. 


Walter  Drury,  of  Stow  Bardolph,  co.  Norfolk,  clerk  1681.  Drury  c. 
Lawrence,  Whittington  I,  483  ;  bapt.  29  Jan.  1647  ;  Caius  Coll.,  Camb., 
1666-73,  B.A.  1669,  M. A.  1673  ;  Rector  of  Wimbotsham  1674  ;  d.  1722. 
Margaret,  his  wife,  d.  1681,  aged  22.  Blomefield  VII,  pp.  444,  447, 
519.  Is  sometimes  called  Waters  Drury. 


Jeremy  Drury,  of  Wat- 
lington,  co.  Norff..  yeo¬ 
man.  Will,  P.C.C.  164 
Dykes,  1680.  By  Anne, 
his  wife,  had  issue. 


1 - 

Anne. 


Frances. 


Elizabeth. 


Posthumous  child. 


3  run’  of  At’ Is  bant. 


Kill  of  fobtt  Drnrg,  1595. 

John  Drewrye  of  Ipswiche,  gentleman,  the  Seven  and  Twen tithe  daye  of  Maye,  in  the  Seven 

and  Thirtithe  yeare  of  our  soveraigne  Ladye  Elizabeth.  I  bequeathe  my  soule  into  the  handes  of 

Allmightie  God,  and  my  bodye  to  the  earthe.  I  geve  vnto  the  chilldren  of  my  brother  Steven 
Drewrye  Twentie  marckf.  Vnto  the  chilldren  of  my  sister  Allen,  of  my  sister  Clare,  of  my  sister 
Reade.  I  geve  to  Dorothie  Harrison,  daughter  to  my  sister  Harrison,  ffower  marckf,  if  shee  be 
lyvinge.  All  the  residue  of  my  goods  I  devise  vnto  my  welbeloued  wife,  Margery  Drewrie,  whom 
I  doo  nomynate  and  appoyncte  the  onely  executrix  of  this  will.  Probatum  decimo  Octauo  Aprilis 
1605,  Juramento  Margerie  Drewrye,  Relicte.  P.C.C.  22  Hayes. 

Margerie,  the  wife  of  John  Drury  of  Ipswich,  was  daughter  of  William  Gilbert,  Esq.,  of  Clare 

and  sister  to^  Jerome  Gilbert,  who  married  Jane  Wingfield  of  Brantham.  Hence  the  Wingfield  witness 

to  her  will,  P.C.C.  Parker,  dated  25  Aug.  1617,  in  which  she  made  Alice  Daundy,  her  daughter, 
then  the  widow  of  George  Rogle  of  Lavenham,  her  executrix  and  residuary  legatee. 


Mill  of  firnrn,  1599. 

Stephen  Drury  of  Aylisham  in  the  Countie  of  Norff.  gentleman,  this  present  Three  and 
Twenteth  daye  of  Julye  1599.  I  gyve  to  my  daughter,  Mary  Sucklynge,  the  messuage  wherein  I 
nowe  dwell,  after  the  death  of  Brigett  my  wiffe,  with  a  toft  called  Tylneys  and  my  lands  annexed, 
and  my  Close  in  Aylisham.  And  also  my  closes,  conteyninge  about  Thirty  fyve  Acres,  which  I  pur¬ 
chased  of  my  brother,  John  Drurye.  Alsoe  Some’s  close  and  Base  his  pythle.  I  gyve  to  my  daughter 
Fraunceys,  after  the  death  of  my  seyde  wiefe,  my  messuage  called  Vmferys,  my  cottage  late  Jone 
Wood3,  my  Close  late  Cozins,  my  Close  called  Reymers,  my  horse  Close  &  my  Close  called 
Brackeys  in  Aylisham.  To  my  daughter  Marye  my  best  sylver  salte,  beinge  gylte,  my  best 
pott  and  Cupp  of  sylver  &c.  To  my  daughter  Frauncf  my  other  sylver  salte  beinge  gylte  &c. 
I  gyve  to  Charles  Sucklynge,  gent.,  my  Sonne  in  Eawe  my  dunde  trottinge  geldinge,  my  graye 
amblinge  mare  whereon  I  vse  to  Ryde.  To  my  wiffe  the  resydue  of  my  goodes.  And  I  doe 
make  her  onelie  executrix  of  this  my  Last  will  and  Testament.  Probatum,  Septimo  die  Novembris 
1599,  Juramt0  procufis  Brigitte  Drury  Relce  et  executricf  dicti  defuncti.  P.C.C.  81  Kidd. 

3  A 


% 


370 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


lietneree,  Drurg  of 


.  Drury  of= 


Henry  Drury  of  Aylsham,  co  Norfolk.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.=j=Eliza- 
Norw.,  Lib.  Bircham,  fo.  189,  11  Aug.  1560,  proved  I  beth. 
25  Oct.  following.  Had  houses  called  Marchells,  &c.  I 
Names  Margaret,  Alice,  and  Elizabeth,  his  daughters. 


Cicely,  wife  of 
Sheriff,  1558. 


John  Drury. 


John  Drury,  senr.,  brother  to  Henryk 
Drury.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  1558. 


William  Drury. 


Thomas  Drury. 


John  Drury  of  Ipswich,  = 
Gent.,  eldest  son  2d 
husband  to  Margery 
Gilbert.  Will,  P.C.C. 
22  Hayes.  27  May  1595, 
proved  18  April  1605. 
Sold  lands  to  Stephen 
Drury,  his  brother  ; 
d.  s.p. 


=Margerie,  dau.  of= 
WilliamGilbert.Esq., 
of  Clare,  co.  Suff.  ; 
named  in  her  father’s 
will,  1546.  Her  will, 
P.C.C.  36  Parker, 
25  Aug.  1617,  was 
proved  23  April  1619. 


:John  Daundy  of  Ips¬ 
wich,  son  of  Robert 
Daundy  of  the  old 
Suffolk  family  of  that 
name ;  1st  husband  of 
Margerie  Gilbert.  Will, 
P.C.C.  2  Peter.  4  May 
1569,  proved  1572. 


A  sister  married 
John  Allen. 

A  “  sister  ”  mar¬ 
ried  . . .  Harrison 
and  had  a  dau. 
Dorothy  Har- 


A  sister 
married 
...  Clare. 

A  sister 
married 
. . .  Reade. 


Stephen  Drury  of= 
Aylsham,  co.  Nor¬ 
folk,  Gent., young¬ 
est  son.  Will. 
P.C.C.  31  Kidd, 
23  July  1599. 
proved  7  Nov.  fol- 
owing. 


Bridget, 
plaintiff  in 
Drury  c. 
Suckling, 
i  Eliz.  B.  & 
A.,  D.  d. 
9.50inl599. 


i 


George  Rogell  or= 
Ruggle  of  Laven- 
ham  in  Suffolk, 
1st  husband., 
Earl.  MS.  1560. 
Had  brother, 
Thos.  Ruggle  of 
Lavenham, 


= Alice  Daundy,  described,  1617,— Robert  Vigerous  Mary  Drury ,= 
in  her  mother’s  will  as  “  Alice  of  Lavenham  or  dau.  and  co- 
Rogle,  my  daughter,  late  wife  Lanham,  2d  hus-  heir,  mar. 
of  George  Rogle.”  Was  “Alice  band.  Harl.MS.  before  July 
Vigerous  of  Ipswich”  in  1621,  1560.  Dhundy  1599,  1st 

when  her  nephew,  George  pedigree.  wife. 

Ruggle,  made  his  will. 


Anne,  born  1604,  mar. 
Rev.  G.  Cock,  Rector 
of  Barsham,  Suffolk. 
She  d.  1636. 


Mary,  mar.  Theo-  Margaret,  b.  1613;  Ruth,  mar. 
philus  Kent,  Arch-  mar.  1646,  Henry  1639,  Thomas 
deacon  of  Sudbury.  Rokewood,  Esq.,  of  Reeves  of  Bar  - 
Weston.  sham,  Suffolk. 


;:Charles  Suckling  of= 
Woodton,  co.  Norff., 
Esq,,  b.  1578.  Bought 
Manor  of  Barsham,  co. 
Suff., 1640, of  hisnephew 
Sir  John  Suckling.  Bur. 
at  Woodton,  Dec.  1644. 


:Dorothy,  2d  wife,  da.  of 
Sir  Anthony  Drury  of 
Besthorpe,a  descendant 
of  Drury  of  Hawstead, 
wid.  of  John  Burmau, 
LL.D.  Mar.inSt. Luke’s 
Chapel,  Norwich  Cathe¬ 
dral,  10  Feb.  1623. 


- 1 

Fran¬ 

ces 

Drury, 
dau. 
and  co¬ 
heir, 
1599. 


Agnes,  mar.  William 
Gosling  of  Bedenham, 
Norfolk. 


- 1 

Frances,  mar.  John  Dris- 
gate  of  Cockley  Cley,  co. 
Norfolk. 


Robert  Suckling,  Esq.,  son  and  heir,  b.=f=Anne,  dau.  of  Sir  Thomas  Woodhouse  of 


1602,  of  Woodton  Hall  and  Barsham 
Manor;  High  Sheriff  of  Norfolk,  1661  ; 
bur.  at  Woodton,  1690. 


Kimberley,  by  Blanche  Carey,  dau.  of 
John,  Baron  flunsdon.  She  was  bur.  at 
^1/Woodton,  1653. 


1  Charles  Suckling,  born  1578,  was  son  of  Robert  Suckling,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  Norwich,  by  his  third  wife,  Joan,  daughter  of 
William  Cardinall  of  Bromley  in  Essex,  and  widow  of  Robert  Vesey  of  Wix  Abbey,  who  died  1575.  (See  page  64,  Vesey  of  Wix 
Abbey.)  By  a  family  arrangement  he  succeeded  to  the  Woodton  estate,  on  his  father’s  death  in  1589.  He  was  a  Colonel  in 
the  Army,  and  purchased  the  Manor  of  Barsham  in  Suffolk  of  his  nephew,  Sir  John  Suckling,  Knt.,  the  Cavalier  Poet. 

Arms  : — Party,  per  pale,  Gules  and  Azure,  three  bucks,  trippant,  Or. 


1 


3 run»  of  legate. 


The  fall  of  the  house  of  Leziate  is  a  memorable  instance  of  the  vicissitudes  of  families. 
In  the  too  brief  memoir  ( Annual  Biography ,  Yol.  XIX)  of  Dr.  Joseph  Drury,  the  famous  Master 
of  Harrow,  himself  a  descendant  of  the  Leziate  family,  we  are  told  of  the  extravagance  of  its 

last  owner,  John  Drury,  who  lived  in  the  spendthrift  days  of  Charles  the  Second,  and  of  the 

sale  of  his  estates,  a  step  which  his  tried  friend,  Dr.  Gibson,  afterwards  Bishop  of  London, 
ineffectually  endeavoured  to  prevent.  In  the  Chancery  Proceedings  in  “  Drury  contra  Turner  ” 
( Beynardson ,  321/.,  68),  we  have  a  vivid  picture  of  the  ruined  gentleman,  who  had  entered  his 
pedigree  in  the  Norfolk  Visitation  not  many  years  before,  and  of  his  hopeless  endeavours  to  avert 
his  fate.  In  1680  he  took  the  fatal  step  of  borrowing  money.  In  1682  his  two  sons  became 
securities  for  the  payment  of  further  bonds.  In  1683  he  sold  his  broad  lands,  perhaps  provisionally, 
in  Leziate,  Ashwicken,  Holt,  East  Winch,  Middleton,  Mintling,  Bawsey,  Gayton  and  Glasthorpe. 

[Norfolk  Fines,  Hill,  35  and  36  Chas.  II.)  In  1684  he  tried  to  save  himself  by  a  second  marriage, 
but  the  lady’s  portion  was  smaller  than  he  had  expected.  ( Drury  c.  Hooke,  Reynardson,  82,  136.) 
In  1686  he  assigned  what  was  left  him  to  trustees.  And  then,  when  all  was  lost,  we  find  him 
ending  his  days  as  a  Warder  in  the  Tower.  William  Drury,  his  younger  son,  had  long  before  gone 
to  the  West  Indies,  where,  it  is  said,  he  became  a  buccaneer.  George  Drury,  his  eldest  son,  the 
sometime  heir  of  Leziate,  studied  law  at  Thavies’  Inn  in  1680,  and  at  the  Inner  Temple  in  1687,  but, 
pressed  by  debts,  absconded  to  Whitefriars,  the  “  Alsatia  ”  so  cleverly  depicted  in  the  “Fortunes 
of  Nigel.”  Marrying  a  second  and  richer  wife  in  1704,  George  Drury  was  sued  by  Sir  John 

Turner  of  King’s  Lynn,  his  father’s  ci’editor,  for  the  bond  he  had  countersigned  some  two  and 

twenty  years  before.  His  later  fortunes  are  not  so  clear.  He  made  his  will  as  George  Drury  of 

the  Inner  Temple,  gentleman,  in  1716,  and  it  was  proved  by  his  widow  in  January  1719,  old 
style.  One  of  his  grandsons,  Robert  Drury,  the  rollicking  dramatist,  whose  now  forgotten  plays 

repose  amongst  the  rarer  volumes  in  the  British  Museum,  died  young  ;  but  another,  Thomas 
Drury,  the  father  of  the  Head  Master  of  Harrow,  lived  to  an  advanced  age  and  retained  much 
traditional  knowledge  of  his  forefathers.  See  Life  of  Dr.  Joseph  Drury  in  the  “Annual  Biography 
and  Obituary,”  1835,  and  in  the  “Dictionary  of  National  Biography,”  Drury  of  Knightstone  in 
Burke’s  “Landed  Gentry,”  Vol.  Ill,  Supplement,  1849,  etc.,  etc. 

In  his  will,  dated  25th  Feb.  1716,  George  Drury,  of  the  Inner  Temple,  London,  Gentleman 
(being  then  about  sixty  years  of  age),  infirm  in  body  but  of  sound  mind,  bequeathed  a  guinea 
apiece  to  Robert  Drury,  his  son,  and  to  Eleanor,  his  daughter,  wife  of  William  Pitt.  The 

rest  of  his  estates  he  devised  to  Elizabeth,  his  wife,  and  to  her  heirs.  The  witnesses  were  Susan 
Bell,  John  Keighley,  and  James  Paget.  Probate  was  given  to  Elizabeth  Drury,  the  relict,  on 
the  22nd  day  of  January  1719. 


372 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


$et>tgree,  ©rury  of  |)olt  Spouse  tn  Hecate. 


Sir-  Robert  Drury  of  Rougham,  heir  to  his=pElizabetli,  youngest  dau.  of  Sir  William  Drury 


grandfather,  John  Drury,  Esq.,  1556;  Knighted 
1603.  Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.,  22  Nov.  1624, 
proved  10  Jan.  1625.  Died  aged  82.  M.I.  in 
Rougham  chancel.  See  page  347,  Diujry  op 
Rougham. 


of  Hawstead,  Privy  Councillor  to  Queen  Mary, 
who  made  will,  P.C.C.  16  Nodes,  26  Dec.  1557. 
Devisee  of  her  mother,  Dame  Elizabeth  Drury, 
in  will,  P.C.C.  42  Pickering,  5  March  1572.  See 
page  354,  Drury  op  Hawstead. 


Robert  Drury=f=Elizabeth,  dau.  of 
of  Rougham,  Charles  Croftes, 
co.  Suffolk,  Esq.,  of  Bard- 
Esq.,  son  and  well,  co  Suffolk, 
heir ;  died  who  made  will, 
vitd  patris,  Arch.  Sudb.,  26 
1623.  June  1616. 


John  Drury,  3d  son,  b.  1580  ;  of  Holt  House, =f  Dorothy,  dau.  of 
in  Leziate  in  the  parish  of  Ashwicken,  Nor-  Edward  Barnes  of 
folk  ;  a  Councellor-at-Law  ;  bought  Holt  House, 

21  Jas.  I,  Drury  c.  Blake,  Chas.  I,  B.  and  A. 

Will,  P.C.C.  25  Aylett,  19  Aug.  1650,  proved 
19  Feb.  1654.  M.I.  in  Ashwicken  chancel.  East 
Anglian,  III,  320.  Blomefield. 


Clement  Drury,  6th=j=Mar- 


Soham,  co.  Cam¬ 
bridge,  Esq.  Monu¬ 
ment  in  Rougham 
chancel,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk. 


sou,  born  1585  ;  of 
Rougham,  co.  Suf¬ 
folk,  Gent.  '  Will, 
Arch.  Sudb.,  Jan. 

1623,  proved  13  April 

1624. 


garet. 


Elizabeth,  2d  wife,  dau.  of— John  Drury  of  Holt  House  in  Leziate,  Esq.  ;  entered  pedi-=j=Elizabeth,  dau.  and  co- 
Isaac  Jurin  of  London,  Mer¬ 
chant.  Drury  c.  Hooke.  Rey- 
nardson,  82,  136.  Mar.  lie., 

Faculty  Office,  19  Feb.  1684  ; 
she  then  aged  35. 


gree  in  Norfolk  Visitation,  1664  ;  became  greatly  indebted 
and  sold  lands  by  Fine,  Norfolk,  Hill,  1683  ;  sold  personal 
estate,  1686  ;  sued  for  tythes,  Exchequer  Bill,  Jas.  II,  Norff., 
No.  12.  Ended  his  life  as  a  warder  in  the  Tower,  where  he 
died  circa  1689,  Drury  c.  Turner,  Reynardson,  324,  68. 


heir  of  George  Fowler, 
Esq.,  of  Holt  House, 
1st  wife.  Drury  ped. 
Visitation  of  Norfolk, 
1664 ■ 


- 1 

....  married  to 
....  Nash,  and 
had  a  son,  John 
Nash,  Esq.,  living 
1650  and  1686. 


Elizabeth,  2d  wife=George  Drury,  son  and  heir,  aged  7  in  1664  ;  of  Thavies’^-Mary,  1st 


and  executrix,  mar-  Inn,  1680  ;  admitted  to  the  Inner  Temple,  1687  ;  a  Pro- 
ried  circa  1704,  and  tonotary  of  the  Sheriffs’  Courts  of  London  ;  of  the  Inner 
brought  some  estate  Temple,  London,  Gent.,  25  Feb.  171y,  when  he  made  will , 
to  her  husband.  P.C.C.  7  Shaller,  proved  22  Jan.  17-j-jj-.  Sometime  of  White- 

friars,  the  “  Alsatia  ”  of  the  seventeenth  century. 


wife,  liv¬ 
ing  1686. 


William  Drury,  2d 
sou,  1664 ;  joined  his 
father  in  bonds,  1682. 
Went  to  the  West 
Indies.  Said  to  have 
become  a  buccaneer. 


- !  i 

Dorothy, 
living  1664. 

Elizabeth, 
living  1664. 


Robert  Drury,  of  St.  Bride’s,  Fleet=pSusanna,  living  1713; 


Street,  and  after  of  St.  Clement  Danes, 
co.  Middx.,  Gent.,  only  son  named  in  his 
father’s  will,  1716  ;  living  1736.  Judge¬ 
ment,  Docket  Books,  Common  Pleas. 


one  of  the  witnesses 
to  the  will  of  Wil¬ 
liam  Drury,  her  son, 
1737. 


Mary,  dau.  of  George  Drury 
and  Mary,  his  wife  ;  bapt. 
at  Sc.  Dunstan’s  in  the  West, 
co.  Middx.,  11  March  1686, 
“from  the  Friers.’’ 


Eleanor,  wife  of  William  Pitt,  a  Sword 
Cutler  in  Stanhope  Street  in  St. 
Clement  Danes.  George  Pitt,  her  son, 
wTas  baptized  there,  1718.  Named  1716 
in  her  father’s  will. 


Robert  Drury,  bapt.  at  St.  Bride’s, 
Fleet  Street,  London,  Dec.  1713. 
Attorney  and  Dramatist.  Author  of 
“  The  Mad  Captain  ”  and  other  plays. 
Died  31  Oct.  1741,  aged  28.  M.I.  in 
St.  Peter’s  churchyard,  Colchester. 


William  Drury,  bapt.  at  St.  Bride’s, 
Fleet  Street,  1  June  1716  ;  of  St. 
Clement  Danes  Mariner,  18  Aug. 
1737,  when  he  made  will,  P.C.C., 
203Wake,  proved  3  Sept,  following, 
by  Robert  Drury,  his  brother. 


Elizabeth  Drury,  bapt. 
at  St.  Clement  Danes, 
18  Jan.  1717  ;  wit¬ 
nessed  the  will  of  W  m. 
Drury,  her  brother, 
1737. 


Thomas  Drury,  bapt.  at  St.; 
ClementDanes,  31  Mayl719; 
living  in  London,  1750  ; 
friend  of  John  Wesley,  who 
used  to  sup  with  him ;  died 
in  1805,  aged  87. 


=Elizabeth 
Hiltou. 
Autobio¬ 
graphy  of 
Dean 
Merivale. 


Rev.  Joseph  Drury,  D.D.,  born  in  London,  11  Feb.= 
1750  ;  B.D.,  Trin.  Coll.,  Camb.,  1784  ;  D.D.,  1789  ; 
Head  Master  of  Harrow,  1785 — 1805  ;  Preb.  of 
Wells,  1812  ;  died  at  Cockwood  House,  co.  Devon, 
9  Jan.  1834  ;  bur.  at  St.  Leonard’s,  Exeter.  Life 
in  Diet,  of  National  Biography. 


Louisa,  youngest 
dau.  of  Rev. 
Benjamin  Heath, 
D.C.L.,  Master  of 
Harrow.  She  died 
\p5  Nov.  1837. 


Rev.  Mark  Drury,  younger  son  ;  Trin.=j=Catherine, 
Coll.,  Camb.,  B.A.,  1782  ;  M.A.,  1792  ;  dau.  of  .  .  . 
Second  Master  of  Harrow ;  Rector  of  Angelo  of 
Caldecott,  Herts.,  1801.  and  of  Edge-  Carlisle  St., 
worth,  Beds ,  1806  ;  died  at  Brussels,  London,  m. 
,22  July  1835,  aged  74.  >J/inMayl790. 


The  Arms  of  Drury  of  Holt  House,  when  Sir  Edward  Bysshe  visited  Norfolk  in  1664,  were  Quarterly  of  Nine  : — 
1,  Drury  ;  2,  Saxham  ;  3,  Gedding  ;  4,  Naunton  ;  5,  Aspall  ;  6,  Whitwell  ;  7,  Liston  ;  8,  Boville  ;  9,  Carbonell,  A  shield 

of  pretence  for  Fowler.  Harl.  MS.  1085. 

Exhaustive  pedigrees  of  the  descendants  of  Dr.  Joseph  Drury  are  given  in  “  Heathiana,”  published  in  1882,  by 
Sir  S.  R.  W.  Drake. 


iUttgliam  of  Inugliam. 


William  lEangbant,  Jfitte,  1548. 


Hec  est  finalis  concordia  fca  in  Cur  dni  Reg  apud  Westm  a  die  See  Trinitatis  in  quindecim 
dies  Anno  regni  Edwardi  Reg  Angl  teij  a  conquestu  vicesimo  primo,  Ac.,  coram  Jobe  de  Stonore 
Wiffo  de  Shareshull,  Ac.  Justic  &  alijs  dni  Reg  fidelibj  tunc  ibi  ftaentibj.  In?  Wiftm  vicarm 
ecclie  de  Geyton  A  Hugonem  de  Oldefen  capellm  quer  &  Willm  de  Langham  militem  A  Jobnam 
vxem  eius  deforc  de  MaSio  de  Langham  cu  ptin.  Vnde  pttm  conuencois  suni  f nit  in?  eos 
in  eadem  Cur.  Scitt  qd  fldcus  Wills  de  Langham  recogn  j^dem  Manlm  eise  jus  ipius  Willi 
vicarij  Yt  illud  quos  ijdem  Wilis  A  Hugo  bent  de  dono  fklci  Willi  de  Langham.  Et  g  hac  recogn 
fine  A  concordia  ijdem  Wills  vicarius  &  Hugo  concesserunt  j?dcis  Witto  de  Langham  A  Jobne 
fldcm  maSfh  cu  gtin  Hend  A  tenend  tota  vita  ipius  Willi  de  Langham.  Et  post  decessim  ipius 
Willi  integre  remanebit  Willo  fit  eiusdem  Willi  de  Langham  A  Margarete  vxi  eius  A  her  de 
corgib3  ipo^  Willi  fil  WiHi  &  Margarete.  Et  si  contingat  q3  ijdem  Witt's  fil  Willi  A  Margar 
obierunt  sine  her  de  corgihj  suis  tunc  j?dcm  manlm  integre  remanebit  Robto  fil  j?dci  Willi  de 
Langham  &  her  de  corge  suo  gcreatis  tenend  de  capit  dnis  feod  illius  g  sluicia  que  ad  j?dcm  manlm 
gtinent  imggm.  Et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Robtus  obierit  sine  her  de  corge  suo  tunc  remanebit 
Jobi  fri  eiusdem  Robti  A  her  de  corge  sua  et  si  contingat  qd  idem  .lobes  obierit  sine  her  de 
corge  suo  tunc  post  decessum  ipius  Jobis  remanebit  Thome  fri  eiusdem  Jobis  A  her  de  corge  suo. 
Et  si  contingat  qd  idem  Thomas  obierit  sine  her  de  corge  suo  tunc  jJdcm  manlm  integre  remanebit 
rectis  hedibj  f?dci  Willi  de  Langham.  Tenend  de  capit  dnis  feodi  illius  g  suicia  que  ad  pdern 
maSrn  gtinent  imggm.  Suffolk  Fines,  Trim,  21  E.  3,  No.  26. 


Apart  from  Fines  and  Subsidy  Rolls,  there  are  but  few  evidences  relating  to  the  earlier 
Langhams  of  Suffolk  in  our  public  offices  of  record.  These,  however,  abundantly  testify  that  they 
were  knights  and  gentlemen,  and  that  they  held  the  manor  of  Langham  Hall  for  many  generations. 
The  inscriptions  to  their  memory,  formerly  on  the  floor  of  Langham  church,  have  long  since 
disappeared,  but  their  arms  (Argent,  a  fess,  Gules,  aud  a  label  of  three  points,  Azure)  still 
remained  on  four  of  the  faces  of  the  octagonal  font  when  Davy  visited  the  place  in  1843.  An 
excellent  account  of  their  alliances  and  descents  was  printed  by  Morant  in  his  “  History  of  Essex.” 
They  resided  much  in  this  latter  county  after  the  marriage,  circa  1341,  of  Sir  William  de  Langham 
with  the  sister  and  heiress  of  Sir  John  de  Wateville,  who  brought  with  her  the  manors  of  Panfield 
and  Hempsted.  These,  together  with  their  old  patrimony  of  Langham  in  Suffolk,  ultimately  passed, 
by  the  marriage  of  Alice  Langham,  the  heiress  of  the  family,  to  the  Cottons.  The  fullest  pedigree 
of  the  Langhams  of  Langham  is  that  compiled  by  Sampson  Lennard  early  in  the  seventeenth 
century  (Harl.  MS.  1500).  It  is  given,  in  italics ,  with  additions  from  other  sources  (including 
Harl.  MS.  1137),  on  the  next  page. 


374 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Jietitstee,  lUngljam  of  Eangfoam- 


Albericus  de  Langham.- 


Alberici 


Normannus  quidam  dictus  de  Langham  tenuit  dominuu.  tempore  Regis 
Renrici  filij  Regis  Will’mi  Senioris  qni  Angliam  debellauit,  de  Langha. 
iuxta  Ixworth  in  Com.  Suffolk.  =j= 


3.  Oodericus  de 
Langham. 


Walterus  fili. 
de  Langham. 

I - 1 - 

Willmus  de  Langham.  Adam  de  Langham. 


Willmus  filius  Normanni  de  Langham  dominuu.  de=f=Amabilis 
Langham,  et  n otatur  qd  Rad’us  elicus  de  Lang •  mater 
ham  confirmauit  terras  suas  de  Langham  Ricardo  Gilberti. 
the.,  filius  suus  que  tenentur  Will’o  filio  Normanni  de 
Langham. 


- 1 

2.  Edwinus 
laingha. 


de 


A.  Almericus  de 
Langham. 


l - 

Lambinus 
de  Lang¬ 
ham. 


- 1 

Johannes 

frater 

Lambini. 


Petrus  de 
Langham. 


Willmus 
de  Lang¬ 
ham. 


Radulfus  fili.  Will'mi  de  Langham  tenuit  dominuu. 
de  Langha  et  confirmauit  terras  saenedo  de  Langha. 
fuit  miles  tempore  regis  Johannis  et  suis  apposuit 
chartis  sigillum  Imaginis  Equitis  Armati  cum  clipso 
in  leua,  et  gladio  in  dextra  et  diet,  est  miles  in  charta 
Will'mi  filij  Gilberti.  =j= 


Simon  de 
Langham. 


Robertas  de 
Langham. 


Gilbertus  de  Langham. 


Willmus 
de  Lang¬ 
ham. 


~l 

Emma  filia 
Gilberti  de 
Langham. 


Raduipus  filius  2  cum  Will’o  fratre  sun 
testificat  cartam  Emma  filia  Gilberti  de 
Langham  p'quisuit  terras  Willmi  filij  Ada 
de  Langha.  Item  Rob’ti  filij  Warini.  Item 
tenta  in  Bury  Edmondi  et  hinc  pater  eius 
Dominus  Radulphus  confirmauit  plurimas 
terras.  Obijt  circa  Annu.  1269,  et  WilVmus 
de  Langha.  est  nepos  et  heres.  Et  notatur 
qd  Agnes  vidua  eius  remisit  suam  Dotam  in 
terns  predicti  in  anno  predicto. 


Willm’us  de  Langham  primogenitus 
obijt  tempore  Regis  Hcnrici  tertij 
patre  suo  superstite.  =j= 


Matildis  filia  Rad’i  de  Langha. 
in  viduatate  sua  alienauit  terras 
fratri  suo  Rado  de  Langham. 


Johannes  de  Langham  nom- 
inatvs  in  carta  Emma 
filice  Gilberti  de  Langha. 


Willm’us  de  Langham  Dn’s  de  Langha.  tempore  regis=j=Sibilla  vxor 
H.  3.  videlt  anno  jS  H.  3.  et  anno  primo  Regis  Ed'ri  Willmi  de 
primi,  filius  et  heres  Will’mi,  nepos  et  heres  Rad’i  Langham 
avunculi  sui  a«  D’ni  1269  fuit  postea  miles,  obijt  supstes  anno 
circa  anno  1293,  plenus  dieru.  25  Ed’i  primi. 


Huber tus  de  Langham 
frater  Will’mi  tenuit 
terras  Rad’i  avunculi 
sui  de  dono  Will’mi 
fratris  sui. 


“  Willtn.  Langham,  mar.  Margery,  Willm’us 
da.  and  h.  of  Roose  of  Radewynter,  Lominus 
by  whom  he  had  Willm.  Langham,  et  heres 
who  mar.  Jane  Watvyli.”  Blois.  Ed’i  2. 


de  Langham  iunior=f=Elenavxor  Willm’ i 


de  Langham  films 
obijt  tempore  Regis 


de  Langham  et  eius 
vidua  superstes  ao 
2  E.  3. 


Robertas  de  Lang¬ 
ha.  obijt  plenus 
dieru.  Anno  36 
Ed’i  3. 


Willm’us  de  Langham  filius  et  heres  Willm’ i=f=  Johanna  filia  et  heres- 


de  Langha.  et  Elena  consortis  sue,  fuit  miles 
Anno  10  Ed’i  3.  On  a  shield, Langham, a  fess, 
a  label  with  five  pendants,  impalingWATER- 
vile,  three  chevrons.  Lord  of  the  Manor  of 
Panfield  Hall, co.  Essex,  jure  uxoris.  Movant. 


Domini J oh’ is  de  Water- 
uile  militis  fuit  vidua 
23  Ed’i  3.  Her  sister 
and  coh.  m.  RichardCog- 
geshall.  Harl.MS.1137. 


^Richard  de 
Mitford,  1st 
hush.,  mar. 
circa  1330  ; 
d.  sans  is¬ 
sue.  Morant. 


Henncus  de 
Langha.  re¬ 
misit  terras 
in  Langham. 


Cecilia  soror 
Willm’ i  de 
Langha. 

17  Ed’i ; 


- 1 - 1 

Nicho-  Ricardus  deLangha. 
laius  de  Anno  Domini  1323, 
Langha.  et  anno  Regis  Ed’i 
secundi  17.  =j= 

i - 1 

Willm’us  filius  Ri- 
cardi  de  Langha. 
remisit  terras  suas 
apud  Langham 
Domino  Willo  de 
Langham  militis. 


ao 


Willm’us  de  Langha.  Dn's  dez 
Langham  Ao  40,  E.  3.  On  a 
shield,  Langham  impaling,  on  a 
bend,  three  cinquefoils. 


-Margareta,  Ao,  29  E.  3. 
Dau.  and  coh.  of  Wil¬ 
liam,  son  of  Geffrey  de 
Darsham.  Morant. 


Robertus  de  Langha.  remisit  terras 
Dn’o  Will’o  de  Langha.  36  E.  3. 
Supstes  ao  22  Ri:  2.  Dns.  de  Hemp- 
sted,  a0  29  E.  3.  Harl  MS.  1133. 


John  Langham,  3d 
son.  Morant.  Harl. 
MS.  1137.  Named  in 
Fine  21  E.  3. 


Alice,  dau.  and  coh.  of  Sir=j=/oAannes  de  Langham  armiger,  filius  et  heres—. 


Wm.  Coggeshall,  widow  of 
Sir  John  Tyrrell  of  Herons, 
1st  wife.  Morant. 

- - 1 


D’ni  Will’i  obijt  tempore  Regis  H.  4  in  sigillis 
gessit  insignia  auice  et  obijt  viuenti  patre.  On 
a  shield,  three  chevrons. 


2d  wife,  no 
issue.  Mor¬ 
ant. 


Robert  Langham, 
2d  son.  Morant. 


Thomas  Langham,  4th 
son.  Morant.  Harl. 
MS.  1137.  Named  in 
Fine,  21  E.  3. 

- 1 

Catherine,  wife  of 
Ralph  de  Hemenhall. 
Morant. 


vxor 

eecun- 

da. 


.  — Georgius  de  Langham  Armig.  filius  Johis  nepos  et  heres  D’ni  Willi  de  Langham  militis^Isabella  vxor  prima,  dau.  of  William 

Hasilden,  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Little 
Chesterford,  co.  Essex.  Morant.  Rub¬ 
bing  of  her  brass  in  Little  Chesterford 
chancel.  Add.  MS.  32,4S1,  H.  3. 


ao  5  H.  5,  tenetur  executoribus  D’ni  Willi  solutionem  facere  de  debitis  dicti  Johannis  patris  sui, 
superstis  a»  9  U.  5  in  anno  17  H.  6,  obijt  et  sepultus  apud  Chesterford  p’uam,  tempore  E.  4- 
High  Sheriff  of  Essex  and  Herts,  1449.  Died  13  Sept.  1462,  Drawing  of  his  brass  at 
Little  Chesterford.  Add.  MS.  6728. 


Compositio  facta  q <*  Ricardus  filius  et  heres 
Georgij  de  Langha.  de  Chesterford  parva 
contrahct  matrimoniu  cum  Elizabetha  filia 
Wilim’i  Southcott,  ao  9  E.  4- 


Thomas  St.  John,  Esq.,  first  husb.,= 
by  whom  five  daus.  Morant.  A0  12 
Ed.  4.  Harl.  MS.  1137.  Inq.  p.m. 
21  E.  4.  Manors  of  Hempstedand 
Panfield,  co.  Essex. 


Ricardus  filius  et  heres  treoryy^Elizabeth.dau.and^Ricardus  Weldon, 

heir  of  William  Arm.  a0  9  Ed.  4 
Southcote,  Esq.  and  13  Ed.  4. 
Morant.  Harl.  MS.  1137. 

l _ 

Cotton  of 


et  Isabellce.  Only  son.  Morant. 
“  De  Langham,  fil.  &  h.  Georgij 
a0  20  H.  6.”  Harl.  MS.  1137. 


“  Margeria  sporum  filia 
dicti  Georgii  nupta 
Johanni  Pykenham  ar- 
migero.  ”H  arl.  M  S. 1137. 


=Alice  Langham,  sole  dau.  and  heiress. 

16  May  1525  ;  buried  with  her  two  hus¬ 
bands  in  Panfield  church.  Morant. 
Mar.  circa  1490  ;  d.  13  May,  17  H.  8  Inq. 
■4/p.m.  18  H.  8. 


Ob.=pJohn  Cotton  of  Panfield,  co.  Essex,  Esq.,  RobertusWel- 
secoud  husband,  from  whom  descended  the  don,  Armiger. 
Cottons  of  Ipswich,  who  entered  pedigree  Harl.  MS. 
in  the  Suffolk  Visitation,  1612.  1137. 


Sigismund  Cotton  of  Paufield,  co.  Essex,  Esq.,  eldest  son  ;  heir  to  his  mother,  1525  ;  then  34  years  old  and  upwards, 
of  the  Mauors  of  Langham,  co.  Suffolk,  and  of  Panfield  Hall,  co.  Essex.  Made  Will,  P.C.C.  4  Sperte,  6  Aug, 
prob.  28  March  1542.  Inq.  p.m.  33  H.  8.  Ob.  5  Jan.  33  H.  8,  leaving  issue. 


Lord 
1540  ; 


langham  of 


Armorial  Scarings,  rtr. 

There  were  Laughams  of  Mildenhall  and  Bury  St.  Edmunds  in  the  fifteenth  and  sixteenth 
centuries.  Simon  Langham,  of  the  latter  place,  was  one  of  the  sons-in-law  of  William  Payton  of 
Risby,  whose  will  was  proved  in  1556,  and  one  of  the  plaintiffs  in  Payton  contra  Hammond  in 
1588.  See  Pedigree  of  Payton,  Hammond  and  Langham  of  London,  on  page  262.  Another  som 
in-law  was  Thomas  Bright,  whose  descendants  entered  pedigrees  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664. 
“  The  Brights  of  Suffolk,  England,”  printed  at  Boston,  Massachusetts,  one  of  the  best  family 
histories  extant,  contains  many  allusions  to  their  Langham  cousins,  and  reproduces  a  letter  from 
George  Langham,  afterwards  of  Clapham  in  Surrey,  to  Thomas  Bright  of  Netherhall  near  Bury, 
dated  22  May  1651.  It  relates  to  Thomas  Bright’s  son,  then  in  Malaga,  where  the  Langhams 
had  a  factor,  and  alludes  to  the  writer’s  late  uncle  Scales,  his  brother  Harvey  and  his  cousin, 
Joseph  Withers.  It  will  be  seen  from  his  will,  which  we  subjoin,  that  George  Langham,  son  of 
Simon  Langham  and  Rose  Payton,  and  who  is  described  in  his  pedigree  as  one  of  the  Captains 
of  the  City  of  London,  was  engaged  officially  in  the  Civil  Wars,  and  contemplating  the  possibility 
of  death  in  the  service.  This  was  in  1643.  In  1631  the  Arms  of  the  Langhams  of  Langham, 
his  knightly  predecessors  in  the  days  of  the  Plantagenets,  Argent,  a  fess  Gules,  a  label  of  three 
points,  Azure,  had  been  allowed  him  by  the  heralds,  when  he  entered  his  pedigree  in  the  Visitation 
of  London.  The  same  arms  were  confirmed  to  George  Langham,  his  son,  the  correspondent  of  Thomas 
Bright,  at  the  Visitation  of  Surrey  in  1662. 


Will  of  Qknrge  Utangbam,  1643. 

I,  George  Langham  of  London,  Marchantailor.  considering  the  certainty  of  death,  and  more 
espially  calling  to  mind  the  employment  wch  it  hath  pleased  god  at  this  tyme  to  call  me  vnto, 
and  the  danger  therof,  do  make  this  my  last  will.  In  the  first  place  I  bequeath  my  sowle  vnto 

god  my  maker  and  to  Jesus  Christ  my  redemer,  and  my  body  to  the  earth  where  it  shall 

please  god  to  suffer  it  to  be  layd.  My  psonal  estate  being  much  dimminished  by  the  will  of 

god,  my  will  is  that  yt  be  devided  into  five  equall  partes  :  of  which  I  doe  bequeath  fower  to  my 
fower  children  wch  are  not  as  yet  advanced  in  porcon  ;  that  is  to  say,  my  sonnes  Henry  Langham> 
Thomas  Langham,  William  Langham,  and  my  daughter  Elizabeth  Langham,  and  the  other  fyft  part 
I  doe  leave  to  executor  to  pforme  legacies.  I  desire  my  executo1'  to  remember  my  sister  Porter 
so  long  as  she  liveth.  Vnto  my  two  granchildren  Jon  Juxson,  eldest  sonne  to  my  son  in-law  Mr 
John  Juxson  of  Morclacke,  and  vnto  George  Harvie,  eldest  sonne  vnto  my  daughter  Harvie,  ten 
poundes  a  peece  at  their  ages  of  twenty  one  yeares.  And  yf  it  shall  please  god  that  I  dye  in 

this  Service,  my  will  is  that  the  horse  wch  I  borrowed  of  my  good  frend,  Mr  Edward  Crople  of 

London,  mercer,  be  restored  vnto  him,  or  the  value  of  him  if  he  be  left  in  the  service,  and 

a  tierse  of  Clarret  wine  be  given  him  for  his  love  and  courtesie  in  lending  me  that  horse.  Vnto 

the  poore  of  Garlicke  Hive  five  pounds.  Vnto  the  Company  of  Merchant  tailors.  I  doe  ordaine 
my  eldest  sonne,  George  Langham,  sole  executor,  yf  he  be  liveing  after  my  deeease.  And  yf 
it  shall  please  God  to  call  him  out  of  this  mortall  life  before  me,  I  will  my  second  sonne,  Henry 
Langham,  to  be  sole  executor.  In  witness  whereof  I  have  herevnto  set  my  hand  and  seale  in 
Henly  vpon  Thames  this  xxxth  March,  1643.  Probatum  sexto  die  Decembris,  1644,  Juramento 
Georgii  Langham  filij  dci  defuncti.  P.C.C.  13  Rivers. 


376 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


iietrigm.  2UngI)am  of  3Burg. 


Simon  Langham  of  Bury=f=Rose,  dau.  of  William  Payton  of  ltisby, 


St.  Edmunds  ;  one  of  the 
plaintiffs  in  Fayton  c. 
Hamond,  Eliz.  B.  and  A., 
1588. 


co.  Suffolk,  who  made  will,  Arch.  Sudb. 
6  Sept.  1556  ;  devisee  of  Robert  Jervis 
of  Brockley,  Gent.,  her  step-father,  1594, 
and  of  Margaret  Bright,  her  sister,  1589. 


l - 

John 
Langham, 
eldest  son. 


George  Langham  of  Bury  St.  Edmunds.  Merchant  in  London.  Visitation = 

of  Surrey,  1662.  One  of  the  Captains  of  the  City,  and  Alderman  of 
London.  Entered  pedigree  in  the  Visitation  of  London,  1634.  Earl.  MS 
1476.  Lord  of  the  Manor  of  Little  Haugli  in  Norton,  co.  Suffolk.  Mile 
son  c.  Langham,  Chas.  I,  B.  and  A.  Will,  P.C.C.  13  Rivers,  30  March" 
1643,  proved  6  Sept.  1644. 


;Thomasine, 
dau.  of  Rich¬ 
ard  Scales  of 
London.  Earl. 
MS.  1476. 


- 1 

.  .  .  us.  .  .  . 
Withers.  M ile- 
son  c.  Lang¬ 
ham. 


George  Langham,  son  aud: 
heir,  of  Clapham  in  co.  Sur¬ 
rey.  Entered  pedigree  in  the 
Visitation  of  that  County, 
1662.  Will,  P.C.C.  59  Drax, 
1  June,  1680,  proved  4  May, 
1683  ;  d.  s.p.;  names  sister- 
in-law,  Mrs.  Mary  Langham. 


:Hester,  da. 

Susan, 

of  John 

wife  of 

Sherington 

John 

of  ...  in 

Juxon 

Lincoln¬ 

of  Mort- 

shire  ;  dead 

lake  in 

in  1680, 

co.  Sur¬ 

sans  issue. 

rey, 1634. 

Henry  Lang¬ 
ham,  2d  son. 

William  Lang¬ 
ham  4th  son. 

Elizabeth 

Langham. 


Thomas  Langham  of  Clap- 
ham,  3d  son.  Will,  P.C.C. 
75  Irby,  1  Feb.  1694, 
proved  30  May  1695.  Ob. 
s.p.  ;  a  widower  in  1694  ; 
estate  to  nephews  and 
nieces  ;  executor  to  George 
Langham,  his  brother. 


- 1 

Judith,  ux.  Tho¬ 
mas  Bales  of  Lon¬ 
don.  Earl.  MS. 
1476.  After  wife 
of  .  .  .  Harvey ; 
she  was  dead  1 
June  1680. 


1 — r 

p 

T  J 

r 

TT 

T  J 

John  Juxon, 

Mr.  Thomas 

George  Juxon 

George 

Thomas=j=Jane,  a 

Alice 

Judith  Bush,  dau. 

eldest  son, 

J  uxon  of 

of  London, 

Harvey, 

Harvey. 

widow  in 

Harvey , 

of  Judith  Harvey, 

1643. 

Elizabeth 
Juxon,  1694, 

Mortlake,  de¬ 
visee  of  his 
uncles.  1680 
and  1694. 

r 

silkman,  1680, 
devisee  of  his 
uncle,  George 
Langham. 

eldest 
son, 1643. 

1694. 

- T - 

1680. 

Mary 

Harvey, 

1680. 

n 

devisee  of  her  uncle, 
George  Langham  ; 
she  was  dead  in  1694, 
leaving  issue. 

Jane  Harvey,  to  whom  Thomas  Langham  left  his  estate  at  Peter  Harvey,  Jane  Harvey, 

Finchingfield  in  Essex,  1694.  1680,  1694.  1694. 


It  would  appear  from  the  will  of  John  Langham  in  the  Bury  Register,  dated  1476,  that  the  Langhams  of 
Bury  St.  Edmunds  and  of  Mildenhall  were  very  nearly  related.  As  late  as  the  beginning  of  the  present  century 
there  were  still  Langhams  at  Mildenhall,  one  of  whom,  William  Langham,  had  an  only  surviving  son,  John  Langham 
of  Northwold  (born  3  May  1795,  and  died  16  Oct.  1847),  who  assumed,  by  Royal  license  in  1813,  the  arms  and 
surname  of  Carter,  in  lieu  of  his  patronymic,  and  was  a  J.P.  and  D.L.  for  Norfolk.  He  married,  9  Jan.  1819, 
Mary  Anne,  daughter  of  William  George  Daniel  Tyssen  of  Fouldon  Hall,  and  has  left  numerous  descendants. 


arnolti  of  Hotorstoff. 


Mill  of  (Eleanor  Arnold,  t517. 

In  dei  noie  Amen  in  the  yei’e  of  oure  Lorde  God  miftmo  quigen®  decimo  septimo  and  y® 
viii  day  of  Novebre  I  Elenor  Arnolde  of  Carleton  Colvel  in  good  and  hole  mynde  make  my 
testament  <k  last  will  nuncupative  in  this  forme. 

Imprimis  I  bequeathe  my  sowle  to  all  myghty  God  to  oure  Lady  seynte  Mary  and  to  all 
seynts  and  my  body  to  be  buried  in  the  Church  yarde  of  S4  Peter  of  Carleton.  Item  I  wyll  have 
a  trentall  songen  for  me  &  my  first  hosbondys  sowle.  Item  I  wyll  have  v  masses  at  Scala  Celi. 
Item  I  wyll  that  Thomas  Arnold  my  hosband  have  my  tenement  y4  I  dwell  yn  &  all  ye  land 
thereto  pteyning  as  well  fre  as  bonde,  w4  thys  condycon  folowyng,  y4  ye  seyd  Thomas  Arnold  my 
hosbonde  paye  to  Margaret  my  dow?  x  markys  of  lawfull  money  of  Englonde  as  it  may  be  born 
of  y®  seyd  tenement  and  landys.  Item  I  wyll  y4  all  these  persons  y4  at  thys  present  time  be 
iufeffyd  and  sesid  to  me  &  my  heyres  of  and  in  ye  ten1  that  [they]  dwellyn  at  thys  tym  [and] 
in  all  that  landys  therto  pteyning  A  beyng  in  Carleton,  frome  henceforthe  they  to  stand  besyd  to 
the  only  use  of  Thomas  Arnold  my  hosband,  my  executor,  y4  he  may  so  do  y4  y4  may  be  honor 
to  God  and  prosperite  of  my  sowle.  Wytnes  Syr  John  Bretfield,  John  Harward  and  James  Garner. 
Probate  Dec.  XY,  1517.  Consistory  Court,  Norwich.  Register  Palgrave,  No.  104. 


Mill  of  Holjn  ^rnol&,  1520* 

In  the  name  of  God  Amen.  I  John  Arnolde  in  goode  mynde  &  memorye  at  Lowestofte  the 

Monday  after  S4  Anne  in  the  Church  of  our  Lorde  God  MCCCCCXX  make  my  testament  and 

last  will  in  maner  &  forme  followyng. 

First  I  bequeath  my  sowle  to  Allmighty  God  oure  Lady  Saynt  Marye  and  to  all  the 
Company  of  hevyn  and  my  bodye  to  be  buried  in  the  Churche  yarde  of  Saynt  Margaret  in 
Lowestofte,  to  the  which  High  Altar  I  give  for  my  tythes  negligentlye  forgotten  xijd.  Item  I  gif 
to  my  mother  Church  of  Norwich  vid.  And  I  will  that  myn  executors  shall  occupy  my  parte  of 
the  parsonage  of  Carleton  for  the  space  as  doeth  appear  by  a  pair  of  Indentures  made  between 
the  psone  and  my  brother  Thomas  Arnolde.  Item  I  wille  that  myn  executors  shall  receyve  a 
mortmain  of  Fyske  of  Carleton  for  his  wyf.  Item  I  gif  to  my  godchildren  iij  at  Camelles  iii8. 
Item  I  gif  to  my  goddaughter  Thomas  Arnold’s  doughter  a  brass  pot,  to  be  delivered  at  the 

mariage  or  ellis  at  the  age  of  xiiij  yeres.  Item  I  wille  that  all  my  goodes  shalbe  solde  by  myn 

executors  as  it  shalbe  praysed  by  indifferent  men,  and  they  to  paye  my  debts  and  to  receyve 
my  debts,  and  the  residue  myn  executors  for  to  dispose  them  as  they  think  most  best  for  my 
soule.  Item  I  wille  have  a  trentall  of  Seynt  Gregorie  of  xxx  masses.  Item  I  wille  that  all  my 
houses  and  lands  of  copyhold  shall  be  sold  by  myn  executoi's  and  the  money  thereof  comyng  to 
paye  my  debts  and  to  the  performance  of  my  will.  Item  I  wille  that  my  hows  that  I  bought 

of  Jeffrye  Labbes  shall  be  sold  as  it  standith  in  Lowestofte  and  the  money  thereof  comyng  to  the 

performance  of  my  will.  Item  I  wille  that  Jeffrye  Labbes  shall  deliver  to  myn  executors  a  good  and 

lawfull  estate,  and  they  to  paye  the  reste  of  the  money  to  the  seyd  Jefferye  that  is  behinde.  All 


378 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


the  residue  of  my  goodes  I  put  to  the  disposing  of  myn  executors,  whom  I  make  my  brother  in 
law  John  Thormode  &  Willm  Mestlinge,  and  they  to  have  either  of  them  for  their  labour  xs. 
And  they  to  fulfill  this  my  last  will.  Witness  hereof  Willm  Harman  &  WiUm  Hethe.  Probat: 
Oct:  eleventh,  1538.  Consistory  Court,  Norwich,  Register  Attmer  (42),  No.  308. 


Mill  of  John  Jettor,  1552. 

The  xij  daye  of  June,  1552.  I  John  Jettor  of  Laystofe,  desire  to  be  buried  in  the  church 
of  Saynt  Margaret’s  in  Laystofe,  on  the  south  side  of  Margaret  my  wife,  now  deceased  &  lying 
in  the  said  church.  I  will  that  all  the  poore  people  within  the  Town  shall  have  apece  of  them 
at  the  daye  of  my  burial],  a  haalf  pennye  Loofe,  a  wyne  pottell  of  beare  and  a  peny  in  money. 
To  Margaret  my  wief  during  her  lifetime  all  such  lauds  &  tents,  according  as  she  hadd  the 

feoffement  in  In  her  widdowed,  which  lveth  in  laystofe  and  in  Carleton,  and  the  dwelling  house 

in  laystofe,  as  long  as  she  is  in  the  said  town.  I  bequeath  to  her  during  her  widowhood,  a 
Lytle  medowe  by  the  watringe,  also  a  meadow  lying  on  the  N.  side  of  the  park  whiche  ys  y*  terme 
of  my  brother  James  Jettor,  also  a  close  on  the  S.  side  of  the  said  meadow.  Aud  for  that 'I 
wolde  that  Margaret  my  wief  shall  geve  viijd  every  weke  on  the  frydaye  to  the  poore  duringe 
her  wedowhode.  I  geve  to  said  Margaret  my  wief  my  close  lying  at  the  South  End  of  the  towne 
of  Laystofe  ;  also  horses,  carts,  &c.  and  the  third  part  of  my  howsehold  stuff  &  of  my  linneu. 
The  rest  of  my  household  stuff  I  bequeath  to  my  sonne  Edmund  Jettor  (except  plate).  I  will 

that  he  shall  have  the  brewhowse,  myll  howse,  fysshe  bowses,  and  the  hedd  howse  that  I  dwell 

in.  I  will  that  Mrs  Elizabeth  beseylde  (?)  shall  have  the  howse  that  she  dwells  in,  without  any  rent. 
I  also  bequeath  her  i1  vis  viijd  yearly  during  her  life.  To  Alice  Bysshope  my  daughter  all  my 
lands  in  Bradwel,  borowe,  Belton  &  Gorleston,  upon  condition  that  her  husband  Willyam  Bisshop 

shall  discharge  me  of  all  demands.  To  my  said  daughter  my  sylver  Ale  pott.  To  each  of  William 

Bysshopes  sonnes  when  they  are  xx  years  of  age  four  pounds,  and  to  each  of  his  daughters,  three 
pounds,  at  their  severall  ages  of  xvi  years.  I  give  unto  Edmund  my  sonne  my  nutt,  by  estimacon 
xxxii  ounces.  I  will  that  Margaret  my  wief  have  a  third  part  of  my  plate  and  my  sonne  Edmund 
to  have  the  other  two  parts.  To  my  said  wief  a  sylver  pece  which  was  hers  when  she  was  a 

wedowe,  four  neate,  my  little  black  cowlte,  half  of  my  sheepe,  and  half  the  Mychell  with  half  her 

takyll,  &c.  To  William  Arnold,  John  Arnold  &  Margery  Arnold  fourtie  shillings  apece.  To  my 
sonne  Edmund  Jettor  the  James  &  the  Little  John,  two  of  my  ships,  my  half  of  the  heighe  barke 
&  my  half  of  the  John  Evangelist.  To  Agnes  Jettor  my  brother  James’  daughter  xx8.  To  John 
Jettor  sonne  of  Anthony  Jettor  x8.  To  Richard  Jettor  also  his  son  vi8  viijd.  To  Margaret  Jettor 

his  daughter  vi8  viijd.  To  the  children  of  Richard  Mybells  &  of  my  sister  Alice  Willyams.  To 

Robert  Jettor  my  brother’s  sonne  the  howse  that  he  dwells  in.  To  Richard  Jettor  my  brother’s 
sonne  xx8.  I  will  that  Edmund  my  sonne  shall  distribute  every  Soundaye  thirtene  pence  amongst 
the  poore  people  in  the  church  as  long  as  the  Kinges  Lawes  will  beare  yt.  To  Richard  Arnold 
my  wiefs  son  all  my  timber  &  planks  lying  in  Walderswyll  (?  Walberswyk).  Executors  shall  give 
to  William  Arnold  my  wife’s  sonne  a  new  dogger  boote.  To  William  Greene  my  new  dogger  boat. 
I  will  that  Robert  Freman  shall  have  the  house  he  dwells  in  for  the  terme  of  his  life.  I  make 

Edmund  my  sonne  sole  executor.  I  ordaine  my  brother  James  Jettor  overseer  of  this  my  will. 

To  Robert  Willyams  my  gown  next  to  my  best  and  my  best  Goblet.  To  John  Fernegame 
(?  Jernegane)  xx8  to  be  equal  between  my  sonne  &  my  wief  in  their  rights.  To  Mr  Conefelde 
of  Gorleston  xx8  that  he  may  observe  my  will  that  y*  may  be  enformed  by  hym  &  M'  Fernegame 
accordinge  to  the  lawe.  To  the  sonnes  of  my  sonne  Edmund  Jettor,  James,  Robert,  William  & 


ARNOLD  OF  LOWESTOFT 


379 


George  v1  each.  To  each  of  his  daughters,  Margarett,  Elene  &  Agues  Jettor  iiii1  at  their  age  of 
xvii  veares,  for  the  wch  I  give  to  my  said  sonue,  after  the  decease  of  Margaret  my  wife,  the 
house  that  he  dwells  in.  To  Anthony  Jettor  my  brother’s  sonne.  To  Richard  Jettor  tk  John 
Jettor  dwelling  in  Loudon.  I  will  that  some  of  my  godsons  who  bear  my  name  shall  carry  me 
to  the  Church.  Proved  22  Oct.  1552  by  Edmund  Jettor  the  sole  executor  named  iu  the  will. 

P.C.C.  27  Powell. 

Robert  Jettor  of  Lowestoft,  testator’s  grandson,  entered  his  pedigree  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation 
of  1612.  William  Bishop  of  Yarmouth,  the  son-in-law,  entered  his.  at  a  much  earlier  date,  in  the 
Visitation  of  Norfolk.  Like  the  Bedingfields  and  the  Rokewodes,  the  Jettors  were  distinguished 
Roman  Catholics,  and  were  fined  for  Recusancy  in  the  days  of  Queen  Elizabeth  and  King  James. 

Mill  of  JRargarrt  Jettor,  1571. 

Margaret  Jettor  of  Lowestoft,  Widowe,  the  iiijth  daye  of  August  in  Anno  Dhi  MCCCCCLXXI. 
I  give  my  soule  to  almightie  God  and  my  bodye  to  be  buried  in  the  churchyard  of  Lowestofte. 
Vnto  my  sonne  Richard  Arnolde  als  thorrenton  six  of  my  silver  spones  with  flatt  Kuappis  in  the 
elides :  more,  my  youngr  cow,  which  is  at  Wiftm  Carter’s  of  Carlton.  Vnto  my  sonne  Richarde’s 
wife,  my  best  gowne.  Vnto  John  Arnolde  which  is  my  sonne  Richarde’s  childe  fortye  shillinges 
of  money.  Vnto  Cristian  Arnolde,  my  sonne  Richarde’s  daughter,  fortye  shillinges  of  money.  Vnto 
the  said  Cristian  my  second  fetherbedd  and  my  littell  dansk  cheste.  Vnto  my  sonne  John  Arnolde’s 
children  called  John  and  Wittm  fortye  shillinges  a  pece.  Vnto  the  said  Wittm  my  counter  and 
the  Carpett  belonging  to  the  same  which  is  in  my  parloure.  Vnto  my  sonne  John  Arnolde  my 
carpett  that  belongeth  to  my  Tabell.  Vnto  his  wife  my  best  mantell  and  my  velvett  partelett. 
Vnto  my  sonne  Wiftm  Arnolde’s  wife  my  best  petecote  and  my  best  hoode.  To  my  sonne  Wiftm 
Arnolde’s  children,  that  is  to  saye  to  Ales,  Margaret,  Elizabeth  and  Nathaneell,  to  every  of  them 
fortye  shillings  a  pece.  More,  I  give  vnto  the  said  Ales  Arnolde  a  silver  spone  and  twoe  kerchers 
and  my  englishe  gowne,  a  silver  pynne  and  a  paier  of  taches  of  silver  that  belongeth  to  the 
same.  I  give  vnto  Wiftm  Grene’s  children,  my  sonne  in  lawe,  that  is  to  saye,  to  Margaret, 
Edmund,  Ales,  John,  Margery  and  Agnes,  forty  shillinges  a  pece.  More,  unto  the  said  Margaret 
Grene,  which  was  my  daughter  Margerye’s  child,  a  silver  spone  and  my  best  paier  of  candlesticks. 
I  give  more  unto  Ales  Grene,  my  daughter  Margerie’s  child,  a  silver  spone  and  my  silke  chainlet 
kirtell  and  one  candlesticke  nexte  to  the  best  payer.  I  will  that  one  (of  my  said  grandchildren) 
shalbe  thother’s  hey  re  for  my  gifte  that  I  haue  given  unto  them,  if  God  do  call  any  of  them 
before  they  doe  come  to  xvth  yeares  of  age.  I  give  unto  my  sonnes  John  Arnolde,  Wiftm  Arnolde 
and  Wiftm  Grene  my  thre  nete.  Unto  Cicelye  my  mayde  the  bedd  that  she  lyeth  in,  my 
kassocke  and  my  peticote  that  I  doe  were  in  the  holye  dayes  and  a  smocke  and  twoe  apirons. 
Unto  the  poore  people  of  Lowestofte  all  my  fagatt  woode  and  twenty  shillinges  of  money.  Unto 
my  sonne  in  lawe  Willm  Grene,  the  wrighter  hereof,  for  his  paynes  vi9  viiid.  The  rest  of  my 
goodes  I  will  to  the  dispocion  of  my  Executors,  John  Arnolde,  Wittm  Arnolde  and  Wiftm  Grene. 

Proved  27th  March,  1574. 

Will  of  John  ®hornton  als.  Arnoltr,  1585. 

The  tenth  day  of  November  one  thousand  fyve  hundred  eightie  fyve,  I  John  Thornton  als 
Arnold  of  Lowestoft  the  elder,  do  make  this  my  last  will  and  testament  in  maner  and  forme 
following.  First  I  bequethe  my  sowle  into  the  hands  of  Almightie  God  wrho  hath  given  his 
beloved  sonne  Jhesus  Christ  to  death  for  me,  by  whose  merits  onlie  I  hope  to  be  saved  :  my 
bodie  I  comitt  to  the  earth  to  be  decently  buried  in  hope  of  a  joyfull  resurrection. 


380 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Item  my  holl  houses  landes  and  tenements  with  the  appurtenances  lying  and  being  in 
Lowestoft,  as  well  beneath  the  clyffe  as  above,  I  give  unto  Alice  my  wyef,  to  the  end  that  she 
shall  bring  up  my  children  in  the  fear  of  God  and  see  them  all  provided  for,  and  that  she  have 
a  motherly  care  for  them  and  everie  of  them,  and  also  so  that  all  my  debtes  be  honestlie  payd. 

Item  to  the  endes  aforesaid  I  give  the  said  Alice  all  the  reste  of  my  goodes  moveable  and 
unmoveable  with  whatsoever  is  myne,  whom  I  make  my  sole  executrix.  In  witness  whereof  I 
have  sett  my  mark.  Witnesses,  Willm  Bentlye,  Thomas  Huddye. 


Mill  of  ®bomas  ^rnoift,  1757. 

Thomas  Arnold  of  Great  Yarmouth,  Gent.,  infirm  in  body  but  sound  in  mind.  To  be  buried 
in  the  parish  church  of  Lowestoft.  To  Thomas  Arnold  my  son  messuages  &c.  in  Lowestoft,  late 
Utber’s,  and  messuages  in  North  Cove,  purchased  of  Thomas  Richardson.  To  Sampson  Arnold  my 
son  messuages  in  Benacre  and  Worlingham,  co.  Suffolk.  To  Caroline  Arnold  my  daughter  £2000, 
when  twenty  one.  To  my  child  unborn  £2000,  when  twenty  one.  To  Elizabeth  my  wife  my 
furniture  and  Jewels,  and  a  life  interest  in  my  plate  with  remainder  to  the  children  equally 
excepting  tea  kettle,  lamp  and  Salver,1  which  are  for  Caroline  my  daughter  as  they  were  given 
to  me  by  Governor  Johnson  on  her  account.  To  my  said  wife  £100,  for  mourning,  and  the 
interest  of  £1000  in  the  hands  of  my  Exors  during  her  widowhood.  To  Matthew  Arnold,  my 
brother,  £10  for  mourning.  To  Ann,  wife  of  Edward  Jasper  £20.  To  Thomas  Colby,  clerk  of 
the  cheque  at  Chatham,  a  ring.  To  Mr  Edward  Jasper,  aforesaid,  of  Tower  Hill  and  John  Tanner 
of  Lowstoft,  clerk,  whom  I  appoint  Exors  and  guardians  of  my  children  £10  each.  Monument 
to  be  put  up  for  me  at  a  cost  of  £80.  To  the  poor  of  Lowestoft  £20.  Thomas  Fowler  of 
Great  Yarmouth,  merch1  and  Matthew,  eldest  son  of  Matthew  Arnold  my  brother,  to  be  guardians 
of  my  children  if  both  my  exors  die.  Mathew  Arnold,  my  nephew,  eldest  son  of  my  brother  Coe 
Arnold,  to  succeed  to  the  lands  bequeathed  to  my  son  Thomas  Arnold  if  said  Thomas  and  all  my 
children  die  under  age.  Mathew  Arnold,  my  nephew,  eldest  son  of  my  brother  Mathew  Arnold 
to  succeed  to  the  lands  bequeathed  to  my  son  Sampson  Arnold,  if  said  Sampson  and  all  my 
children  die  under  age.  To  John  Arnold  my  nephew,  £100.  To  the  children  of  Mathew  Arnold 
my  brother,  Coe  Arnold  my  brother,  and  Elizabeth  Williams  my  sister  the  residue  of  my  estate. 
Witnesses,  William  Bulls,  Richard  Ward,  Jane  Taylor.  Proved  at  London  14  Dec.  1737  by  Edward 
Jasper  and  John  Tanner.  P.C.C.  264  Wake. 

Will  of  Jitattljdfl  ^Intolb,  1758. 

I,  Mathew  Arnold  of  Lowestoff,  Suffolk,  gentleman,  bequeath  to  Aldous  Arnold  my  son  the 
howse  wherein  I  dwell  &  all  those  houses  in  the  occupation  of  George  Boyce  with  the  storehowse 
now  in  the  occupation  of  Mathew  Arnold  my  kinsman  A  that  piece  of  ground  called  Peartree 
Yard,  all  situate  in  Lowestoff,  on  condition  that  he  pays  out  of  the  same  to  his  brother  William 
Arnold  £100.  I  give  to  my  son  William  all  the  estate  I  purchased  of  John  Wilde,  gentleman, 
situate  in  Carlton  Colvile,  and  £400.  I  desire  my  shipping  parts  &  purparts  of  shipping  to  be  sold 
after  my  death,  my  debts  to  be  paid  with  the  proceeds  &  the  remainder  to  go  to  my  said  three 

1  This  salver  (engraved  with  the  arms  of  Addington  impaling  Arnold)  is  now  in  the  possession  of  Col.  Rous 
of  Worstead  House,  near  Norwich,  as  well  as  oil  paintings  of  Captn  Thomas  Arnold  (the  testator)  and  his  wife  and 
eldest  son,  by  Highmore,  a  pupil  of  Kneller  ;  also  a  compass  which  belonged  to  testator’s  eldest  son  Thomas,  when  serving 
as  midshipman  in  H.M.S.  “  Centurion,”  under  Lord  Anson,  on  his  voyage  round  the  world. 


ARNOLD  OF  LOWESTOFT. 


381 


sons.  My  estate  in  Carlton  Col  vile  wch  I  lately  purchased  of  Rob4  London  shall  (immediately  after 
the  decease  of  Jane  my  wife)  be  sold  &  the  money  arising  be  equally  divided  amongst  my  said 
children,  Mathew  Arnold,  Aldous  Arnold,  William  Arnold  and  Margaret  Barker.  I  give  to  my 
brother  in  law  Richard  Aldous  of  Wingfield,  Suffolk,  £10.  To  John  Tanner  of  Lowestoff,  Clerk,  £5. 
Executors,  Mathew  Arnold  and  Aldous  Arnold  my  sons.  Dated  24  May  1738.  Witnesses,  John 
Stannard,  James  Reeve,  Wilini  Brice. 

Proved  at  London  3  Aug:  1742  by  the  oaths  of  Mathew  Arnold  and  Aldous  Arnold. 

_ P.C.C.  238  Trenley. 

Mill  of  'ffljomas  JUnolft,  1T50* 

I,  Thomas  Arnold,  gent,  (eldest  son  of  the  late  Capt.  Thomas  Arnold,  formerly  of  Lowestoft 
&  since  of  Great  Yarmouth)  being  ill  at  the  house  of  Sontley  South  Esq.  in  Billeter  Square  London, 
desire  to  be  buried  near  my  late  father  in  Lowestoft  Church.  To  the  Rev.  John  Tanner  of  Lowestoft, 
clerk,  £100.  To  Sampson  Arnold  my  brother  and  Caroline  my  sister  £50  each.  To  Mr  Mathew 
Arnold  of  Red  Lion  Street,  Wapping,  my  cousin  £20.  To  Sontley  South,  a  ring.  To  Elizabeth 
Arnold,  my  dear  and  honoured  mother,  all  the  residue  of  my  estate,  she  having  suffered  her  full 
proportion  of  the  misery  which  I  myself  have  endured  during  a  long  and  grievous  affliction  of  body. 
I  appoint  as  executors,  Elizabeth  Arnold,  my  mother,  and  John  Tanner,  aforesaid.  Witnesses, 
Alex:  Bunyan,  Henry  Price,  Aug:  Towson.  Dated  29  Sept.  1750.  Proved  at  London  13th  June, 
1761,  by  Elizabeth  Arnold,  widow,  the  surviving  executrix.  P.C.C.  199  Cheslyn. 


Jlimtnustration  of  Sampson  Arnalir,  1765. 

Sampson  Arnold,  8  Oct.  1765.  Adrhon.  of  the  goods,  chattels  Ac.  of  Sampson  Arnold  late 
of  lladdescoe  in  the  County  of  Norfolk  and  a  Lieutenant  on  half  pay  in  his  Majesty’s  Navy,  deceased, 
was  granted  to  Caroline  Arnold,  widow,  the  relict  of  said  deceased  :  she  having  first  sworn  to 
administer.  _ _  Admon.  Act  Book,  P.C.C. 

Will  of  Militant  Atitongton,  1777. 

The  22d  day  of  August  1777.  William  Addington  of  the  parish  of  Saint  George  Bloomsbury 
co.  Middx.  Gent.  To  my  brother  John  Addington  £100  for  mourning  A  £1000  legacy.  Mrs.  Elizabeth 
Arnold,  my  wife’s  mother,  whose  considerable  Fortune  places  her  superior  to  any  little  offers  from 
me,  makes  me  request  her  to  accept  a  ring,1  value  £200,  as  a  remembrance  of  my  affection.  My 
freehold  estate  called  Bowes  Farm  in  the  psh  of  Henhurst  co.  Surry  ;  my  freehold  estate  in  Romford 
co.  Essex ;  also  my  freehold  estate  in  the  town  of  Buckingham  co.  Buckingham,  to  my  wife,  subject 
to  no  control  A  after  her  decease  I  bequeath  the  same  to  my  brother  John  Addington  A  his  heirs. 
The  sum  of  £600  in  three  per  cent,  consolidated  annuities  Bank  of  England  to  be  transferred  to 
the  names  of  my  wife  Caroline  Addington  A  my  brother  John  Addington  in  trust  for  the  following 
purposes — The  interest  of  the  same  to  my  dear  wife  for  her  use,  Except  that  my  daughter,  Wilhelmina 
Caroline  Hatch  (whose  misconduct  and  behaviour  having  entirely  destroyed  my  Felicity  made  misery 
the  companion  of  my  Declining  Life,  which  has  quite  eradicated  my  affection  for  her)  should  from 
any  misfortunes  be  reduced  and  distrest,  I  direct  said  trustees  out  of  said  interest  to  pay  my  daughter 
one  hundred  guineas  a  year  by  quarterly  payments,  the  first  payment  to  take  place  immediately 
after  such  misfortune  shall  happen  to  her.  After  the  death  of  my  wife  all  the  interest  of  said 


1  Now  in  the  possession  of  Col.  Rous  of  Worstead  House,  near  Norwich. 


382 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES 


£6000  to  be  paid  to  my  daughter  for  her  natural  life  not  subject  to  any  control  from  her  husband 
James  Hatch  or  liable  to  his  debts.  If  she  survives  her  husband,  my  wife  being  also  deceased,  the 
trustees  shall  transfer  said  £6000  to  my  daughter.  To  my  esteemed  Friend  Dr  Anthony  Addington, 
&  his  lady  Mrs  Mary  Addington  £50  each.  To  my  cousins  the  children  of  Dr  Addington  £20  each. 
To  my  cousin  William  Addington  Esq  of  Soho  Square  twenty  guineas.  To  my  friend  Mr  William 
Hay  of  Farnham  twenty  guineas.  To  Mrs  Annie  Maria  Bowman  of  Greenwich  ten  guineas.  Whereas 
Mathias  Rogers  Esq.  of  Buckingham  left  his  plate  as  heirlooms,  amounting  to  305  ounces  agreeable 
to  an  inventory  signed  by  Mrs  Elizabeth  Rogers  his  widow,  and  as  many  of  the  pieces  had  been 
altered  before  they  came  into  my  possession,  I  advise  my  wife  to  offer  £120  in  lieu  and  full  com¬ 
pensation  to  the  next  person  intituled  to  the  same.  By  my  marriage  agreement  £2500  was  placed 
in  the  three  per  cent.  Consolidated  Bank  annuities  in  the  joint  names  of  Mrs  Elizabeth  Arnold  & 
John  Moses  as  trustees,  I  now  devise  said  £2500  to  my  wife  for  ever.  I  appoint  her  executrix  and 
residuary  Legatee. 

Proved  at  London  8th  June  1779  by  Caroline  Addington,  widow.  P.C.C.  230  Warburton. 


Will  of  Slijateb  JUttolb,  1788. 

Being  in  sound  memory  and  having  an  absolute  right  to  give  my  fortune  to  who  I  please, 

I  Elizabeth  Arnold  of  Stratford  le  Bow  in  the  Co.  of  Essex  do  make  my  last  Will  &  Testament 

as  follows. 

I  give  to  my  daughter  Caroline  Allen  my  estates  in  North  Cove  and  Lowestoft,  and  my 
estate  in  Stratford  left  me  by  my  cousin  Mr  Sontley  South,  also  in  the  three  pr  cent.  Bank  Consul 
Annuities,  in  reduced  annuities,  in  South  Sea  Stock,  in  new  and  old  annuities  and  Exchequer  Orders, 
and  stock  in  the  funds,  in  Trust  to  my  Grandson  and  Grand  daughter  Hatch,  Mr  John  Addington 
in  the  Temple,  Mr  John  James  of  Worton,  to  be  paid  to  my  said  daughter  for  her  natural  life,  and 

at  her  decease  to  go  to  my  Grandson  &  Grand  daughter  Hatch  for  ever. 

Item.  All  my  Bank  Stock  to  my  Grand  daughter  Wilmina  Caroline  Hatch  to  her  sole  use 
for  life,  and  at  her  decease  [to  be]  equally  divided  between  her  children. 

Item.  To  my  grand  daughter  Caroline  Elizabeth  Hatch  two  thousand  pounds,  to  be  laid 
out  to  accumulate  untill  she  arrives  at  the  age  of  21  years. 

Item  in  legacies  I  give  as  follows : — To  Admiral  John  Carter  Allen  one  thousand  pounds. 
To  my  Grandson  and  Grand  daughter  Hatch  five  hundred  pounds  each  To  my  nephew  John  South 
Morse  £500.  To  Mr  John  Addington  in  the  Temple  £500.  To  Mr  John  James  of  Worton  £500. 
To  Mr  Aldous  Arnold  senior  of  Lowestoft  merch*  £300.  To  Mr  John  Fowler  of  N.  Yarmouth  £300. 
To  Mr  George  Bristowe  of  MercU  Taylors  Hall  £100.  To  Mr  Talbot  of  Stratford  £100,  &c.  &c. 
As  I  have  changed  my  intention  being  buried  at  Lowestoft  I  now  [wish]  to  be  buried  at  Little 
Ilford  in  a  vault  prepared  for  me,  in  linen,  in  a  Leaden  Coffin  and  in  another  covered  with  black 
cloth,  black  nails  and  Copper  Plate  on  the  lid  with  my  name ;  no  hatchment  to  be  put  out  nor 
rooms  hung  in  black,  but  to  be  buried  as  privately  as  decency  will  permit.  I  nominate  and  appoint 
my  Grandson  and  Grand  daughter  Hatch  &  Mr  John  Addington  of  the  Temple  my  executors,  and 
do  declare  this  to  be  my  last  will  where  unto  I  have  this  day  of  May,  18th,  1788  set  my  hand 
&  seal.  Elizabeth  Arnold.  In  the  presence  at  my  request  of  my  undermentioned  three  friends. 
Jno  Snelgrave,  Edward  Parsons,  Josiah  Price. 


1  Dr.  Addington  was  the  father  of  the  first  Lord  Sidmouth. 


ARNOLD  OF  LOWESTOFT. 


3S3 


[The  following  are  some  of  the  codicils  to  the  original  will,  written  each  on  a  small  slip 
of  paper  and  attached  together.] 

My  late  Husband’s  picture  and  mine1  I  give  to  Mrs  Hatch  and  half  my  house  Linen  and 
half  the  goods  and  china  [spelled  “  chaney  ”  in  the  original]  that  she  may  like  to  take.  I  give  my 
Library  of  Books  to  Mr  Hatch.  Stratford,  1768.  Eliz.  Arnold. 

To  Executors.  I  give  to  Mr.  Aldous  Arnold,  surgeon,  of  Lowestoft  twenty  guineas  for  a  ring 
and  his  wife  10  guineas.  May  10.  1778. 

To  my  Executors.  I  give  to  Mrs  Elizabeth  Christian,  Mr  Aldous  Charles  Arnold,  Mrs 
Elizabeth  Harman,  Mrs  Charity  Henshaw  [to  each]  twenty  guineas.  Stratford  March  2,  1780. 

To  my  Exors.  To  be  paid  as  directed  as  if  mentioned  in  my  Will.  To  Mrs  Gilbert,  sister 
to  my  late  maid  Margaret  Lay,  the  sum  of  fifty  pounds  and  a  ring  of  one  guinea  in  value. 
March  2,  1782. 

Jnlly.  Mrs  Gilbert  died  suddenly  in  a  fit.  I  give  his  \jic\  £50  to  Mrs  Ray  my  housekeeper. 
Eliz.  Arnold. 

To  my  executors.  I  give  the  Revd  Doctor  Warner  twenty  guineas.  I  give  to  Mre  Saint 
John  his  sister  twenty  guineas.  March  1,  1783. 

I  give  to  Mrs  Try  [Tryplicena]  Aldred,  wife  of  Obed  Aldred,  if  living  at  my  decease,  ten 
pounds.  Stratford  Aug*  12,  1784.  If  dead  I  give  his  daughter  Try  Batson  the  ten  pounds. 

I  give  to  Mr  and  Mrs  Cook,  Father  and  Mother  to  Mr  Hatch,  twenty  guineas  each.  January 
the  1st  1785. 

I  give  to  the  poor  distressed  Jane  Chann,  my  late  servant,  ten  pounds  a  year  for  her  life, 

and  her  Brother  or  Sister’s  Receipt  shall  be  a  discharge  should  she  not  be  able  to  give  a  discharge 

herself.  June  3,  1788. 

Memo.  I  desire  my  Grand  daughter  Caroline  Elizabeth  Hatch  may  have  my  mother  of 
pearl  tea  chest  and  Silver  Cannister  and  Tea  Kettle  and  Lamp.  I  desire  my  niece  Ann  More 
may  have  my  silver  Bread  Basket.  [By  a  mistake  of  the  Register  the  word  “  and  ”  is  interposed 
between  “  Caroline  ”  and  “Elizabeth.”  Grand-daughter  here  is  equivalent  to  “great  grand-daughter.”] 

This  Will  wfas  proved  at  London  with  sixteen  Codicils  the  21st  day  of  Nov.  1789,  before  the 
Worshipful  James  Henry  Arnold,  Doctor  of  Laws,  Surrogate,  by  the  oaths  of  James  Hatch  & 
John  Addington  EsqrS.  Power  reserved  of  making  the  like  grant  to  Wilhelmina  Caroline  Hatch 

wife  of  the  said  James  Hatch,  when  she  shall  apply  for  the  same.  P.C.C.  528  Macham. 

This  will  is  throughout  in  the  handwriting  of  the  Testatrix,  which  being  very  tremulous 

from  old  age  has  led  to  one  or  two  trifling  errors  in  the  Register. 


Will  of  JUtmirs  ^rnoltr,  1791. 

Aldous  Arnold  of  Lowestoft  in  the  County  of  Suffolk,  Esquire,  29  April,  1791. 

To  Margaret  his  wife  messuage  &c.  in  Lowestoft  (late  Daniel  Kitteredge)  for  her  life,  and 
then  to  his  son  Aldous  Charles  Arnold  and  his  heirs. 

To  said  son  messuage  and  farm  in  Thorington  co.  Suffolk  (charged  with  an  annuity  of 
£50  to  M argaret  his  said  wife),  and  messuages,  farms  &c.  in  Oulton  and  Flixton  co.  Suffolk  (late 
Thomas  Anguish,  Esquire) ;  also  farmhouse  &  farm  in  Fressingfield. 

To  daughter  Elizabeth  Christian,  for  life,  annuity  of  £200  out  of  last  named  property, 
and  if  she  die  and  leave  children  a  further  charge  of  £5000  legacy  equally  between  said  children, 

1  See  note  to  Captain  Arnold’s  will. 


384 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


To  son  Aldous  Charles  Arnold  other  messuages  in  Lowestoft  and  Oulton,  and  (after  decease 
of  Margaret,  testators  wife)  messuages,  farms  Ac.  in  Carlton  Colvile  ;  also  farm  and  lands  in  St. 
Andrew  A  St.  Lawrence,  Ilketshall,  co.  Suffolk ;  also  Wortwell  Hall  farm  and  lands  in  Norfolk ; 
also  Limbourn  Mill  Ac.  in  Homersfield  co.  Suffolk  ;  also  farm  in  Fressingfield  A  Stradbroke  ;  also 
another  farm  in  Stradbroke  A  Fressingfield  in  occupation  of  Beecroft  ;  also  farm  in  Ubbeston  co. 
Suffolk ;  also  lands  (late  Giles  Borret)  in  Fressingfield  ;  also  messuage  with  chaise  house  Ac  in 
Lowestoft,  and  Office,  fish  houses  &c  in  Lowestoft  in  his  own  occupation ;  also  land  adjoining 
the  last,  late  the  estate  of  John  Arnold,  deceased ;  also  houses  and  land  in  Lowestoft  bought  of 
Henry  Taylor,  and  land  there  called  “  Flyes,”  and  land  near  Church  Green  called  “Swan  Land”; 
also  messuage  and  malting  office  there  in  the  occupation  of  John  Carver ;  also  leasehold  messuage 
in  Sileham.  Suffolk,  and  all  other  freeholds,  copyholds  and  leaseholds  whatsoever. 

Whereas  on  his  marriage  with  Margaret  his  present  wife,  testator,  by  Indenture  dated 
17th  Octr  1782  between  himself  of  the  first  part,  Margaret  his  wife,  by  the  name  of  Margaret 
Durrant,  widow,  of  the  second  part,  and  John  Farr  and  Robert  Reeve,  Esquires,  of  the  third  part, 
agreed  his  wife  should  have  £300  for  her  sole  use,  if  she  outlived  him ;  he  therefore  by  this  will 

bequeaths  her  that  sum,  together  with  further  sums  of  £250,  and  £50  for  mourning. 

To  William  Taylor  of  Lowestoft,  mariner,  master  of  one  of  testators  boats,  £50.  To  William 

Rowland  Arnold,  son  of  his  late  nephew  Aldous  Arnold  £50,  when  twenty  one :  but  if  he  die  then 

equally  between  Aldous  Edward  Henshaw  and  William  Hensliaw  two  sons  of  Charity  Henshaw  his 
niece.  To  said  Charity  Henshaw  £10  for  mourning.  He  leaves  £67  in  various  sums  to  the  poor 
of  Lowestoft,  Ubbeston  &c  Ac. 

The  residue  of  all  his  estate  he  leaves  to  Aldous  Charles  Arnold  his  son  subject  to  pay¬ 
ments  and  legacies,  and  appoints  him  sole  executor. 

Proved  at  Lowestoft  3'1  June  1793  by  executor.  Arch.  Sufi. 


Mill  of  citrous  ffiljarks  ^rnoltr,  1799. 

Aldous  Charles  Arnold  of  Lowestoft  co.  Suffolk,  Esquire,  20  Sept.  1799.  To  Harriet  Ann 
Arnold  his  daughter,  reversionary  interest  in  the  estate  of  Margaret  Arnold,  widow,  testators  mother  in 
law,  of  a  messuage  in  Lowestoft  (late  Daniel  Kitteridge)  in  the  occupation  of  the  said  Margaret  Arnold. 

To  Richard  Aldous  Arnold  his  son  farmhouses,  lands  and  tenements  in  Ilketshall  St.  Andrew 
and  St.  Laurence,  Stradbroke  and  Fressingfield,  Ubbeston,  Stradbroke,  Wringfield,  Oulton  &  Flixton 
(late  Thomas  Anguish  Esq.),  Fressingfield,  Tliorington  and  Lowestoft ;  also  Wortwell  Hall  farm  in 
Norfolk;  also  Limbourn  Mill  Ac.  in  Homersfield  co.  Suffolk;  also  messuages  Ac.  in  Heckingham, 
Norfolk,  and  lands  in  Sileham,  Suffolk ;  also  messuages  and  fish  houses  in  Lowestoft  in  his  own 
occupation ;  subjecting  all  the  above  to  the  legacies  Ac.  including  £5000  to  his  daughter  Harriet 
Ann  Arnold  and  another  £5000  to  her  when  twenty  one,  and  smaller  sums  to  Margaret  Arnold 
his  mother  in  law,  Aldous  Edward  Henshaw,  William  Henshaw,  Mary  Harrison  of  Lowestoft, 
spinster,  the  masters  of  his  boats,  his  man  and  maid  servants  and  his  executors. 

If  Richard  Aldous  Arnold  die  before  he  is  twenty  one,  then  he  leaves  all  to  his  daughter 
Harriet  Ann  Arnold,  and  if  she  die  before  she  is  twenty  one  remainder  to  Aldous  Edward  Henshaw 
and  William  Henshaw,  two  sons  of  testators  cousin  Charity  Henshaw  of  Cambridge  widow. 

He  appoints  as  executors  the  Revei'end  George  Clarke  Doughty,  Vicar  of  Hoxne  and  Gerard 
Montagu  of  Gunton  Esq.  who  are  also  to  be  the  guardians  of  the  sou  and  daughter. 

Proved  at  Norwich  22  July  1809  by  the  Rev.  G.  C.  Doughty  (the  other  executor  having 
died  in  testator’s  lifetime)  in  £he  Court  of  the  Archdeacon  of  Suffolk. 


ARNOLD  OF  LOWESTOFT 


385 


$et»gree,  &ntoto  of  ILotoestoft. 


.  Arnold  of  . 


1st  hus¬ 
band. 


Eleanor,  1st  wife,= 
Will,  Cur.  Ep. 
Norw.,8Nov.l517, 
proved  1 5  Dec. 
following. 


:Thomas  Arnold  of=j=Margaret,  2d  wife— John  Jettor  of  Bowestoft, 2d:f= Margaret,  1st 


Carlton  Colville, 
co.  Suffolk.  Will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  1524- 
28  (lost). 


of  Thomas  Arnold. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff., 
1571,  probt.  1574. 
bur.  23  July  1573, 
at  Lowestoft. 


husband.  Will,  P.C.C.  27 
Powell,  12  Juue  1552, proved 
22  Oct.  following.  His  grand¬ 
son  entered  ped.  in  the  Visi 
tation  of  Suffolk,  1612. 


wife,  buried  in 

Lowestoft 

church. 


4/ 


John  Arnold  of 
Lowestoft.  Will, Cur. 
Ep.  Norw.,  dated 
“theMonday  afterSt. 
Anne,”  1520,  proved 
11  Oct.  1538. 


Margaret,  named  Richard  Arnold,  al’s=j=.  .  .  William  Thorntou,  al’s  Margery,  John  Thornton.  =f=. Alice.  Will,  Arcli.=William  Bent- 


in  her  mother’s  Thornton,  to  whom 

will.  his  stepfather,  John 

Jettor,  devised  pro¬ 
perty  at  W  albers- 
wick. 

Arnold.  Will,  P.C.C.  25  wife  of  al’s  Arnold  of 
Nov.  1592,  prob.  5  Feb.  William  Lowestoft.  Will, 
following;bur.atLowes-  Greene,  Arch.  Suff.,  10 
toft.  Issue  by  Alice,  1571.  Nov.  1585,  prov. 

his  wife,  who  d.  1591.  4  Dec.  following. 

Suff., 6  Marehl613,  ley,  Vicar  of 
proved  10  March  Lowestoft,  1574 
1614  ;  bur.  9  May  — 1603,  2d  hus- 
1615,  at  Lowes-  band, 
toft. 

i  i  i 

John  Arnold,  after  of  Walberswick,  John  Thornton,  al’s=j 

and  Christian  Arnold,  devisees  of  Mar-  Arnold,  bapt.  24 

garet  Jettor,  1571.  John  Arnold’s  Jan.  1562.  Church- 

will,  P.C.C.  35  Fenner,  1611,  names  warden  of  Lowestoft, 

his  dau.  Margery,  then  wife  of  Johu  1593. 

Thornton,  al’s  Arnold.  s 

=Margaret  Paine. - 
1st  wife,  mar. 
at  Lowestoft,  21 
June  1585. 

■'  s 

= Margery,  dau.  of 
John  Thorntou 
al’s  Arnold  of 
Walberswick, 
her  husband’s 
^cousin. 

r  "T  1 

Edward  Arnold  William  Arnold, 
bapt.  at  Lowes-  bapt.  at  Lowestoft, 
toft,  13  May  13  Juuel568;  mar. 
and  bur.  15  May  Christian,  dau.  of 
1565.  .  .  .  and  had  issue. 

Thomas  and  Thomas  Robert  Arnold,  bapt. 

Robert,  bapt.  Arnold,  at  Lowestoft,  6  Feb. 

28  Jan.  1570;  bapt.  17  1574;  mar.  there, 

d.  in  infancy.  Feb.1571  31  Aug.  1601,  Mary 

Wild,  and  had  issue. 


Matthew  Arnold,  bapt.  at=pAgnes  Drake, 


Lowestoft, 23  Marchl577; 
bur.  there  19  Sept.  1619. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  15  Sept., 
prob.  Oct.  1619. 


mar.  atLowes- 
toft,  8  Sept. 
1606. 


James  Arnold, 
bapt.  at  Lowes¬ 
toft,  1  July  1582  ; 
bur.  there  9  Aug. 
1598. 


Elizabeth,  post¬ 
humous  child, 
bapt.  at  Lowes¬ 
toft,  5 
1586. 


June 


Matthew  Arnold, 
bapt.  14  June 
1607. 


- 1 - 

James,  bapt. 
6  Aug.,  bur. 
26  Dec.  1612. 


Anne,  eldest 
dau.,  bapt.  7 
Nov.  1611. 


Elizabeth, nam’d 
in  her  father’s 
will,  1619. 


his 

wife. 


ElizabethChilders,=pWilliam  Arnold,  bapt.  27- 


of  Flixton,  widow, 
2d  wife,  mar.  21 
Sept.1675.  Entered 
in  Lowestoft  Parish 
Register  as  “  mar¬ 
ried  at  Beccles.” 


Sept.  1646.  Described  in 
the  Lowestoft  Town  Book 
1698,  as  “  Mr  William  Ar¬ 
nold  of  Weston.”  Church¬ 
warden  of  Weston,  1684- 
96,  1714-18. 


-Elizabeth  Winn 
of  Gorton,  1st 
wife,  mar.  21 
Sept.  1671 ;  bur. 
at  Lowestoft,  22 
March  1674. 


William  Arnold  of  Lowes-=j=Mary,=Thomas  Pacy,  2d  husband, 

mar.  at  Lowestoft,  20  Aug. 
1 655,  “first  by  aJustice,then 
by  a  minister.”  Parish  Reg. 
— I  l  I 

Anne,  bapt.30 
July  1649. 


toft,  bapt.  18  Dec  1614. 
Will,  Arch.  Suff.,  dated  7 
Aug.  1653,  prob.  2  Mayl654. 


Matthew  Arnold  of  Lowes-=r-Thomasina,  dau.  and  heir 


toft,  merchant,  bapt.  26Dee. 
1647  ;  mar.  25  Jan.  1675  ; 
bur.  2  Jan.  1709.  “  He  was 

a  good  honest  man.”  Parish 
Reg..  Churchwarden,  1708. 
Will,  Cur.  Ep.  Norw.  ,13  April 
1695,  prob.  9  Jan.  1709. 


of  Henry  Coe  of  Lowes¬ 
toft,  Gent.,  whose  will, 
Arch.  Suff.,  dated  13  Oct. 

1680,  was  proved  30March 

1681.  She  was  bapt.  4 
March  1650;  bur.  25  Aug. 

\pd719,at  Lowestoft,  set.  68. 


Robert  and 
Mary,  named 
in  their 
father’s  will, 
1653. 


See  next  page. 


1677. 


William  Arnold,  bapt.  at  Lowestoft,  8  Sept, 
will  of  his  cousin,  Coe  Arnold,  as  of  Ringsfiekl,  Suffolk.  Died  at 
Newport,  I.  of  Wight,  20  Sept.  1758,  in  his  82nd  year  ;  bur.  there 
“  at  the  upper  end  of  the  Churchyard  near  the  garden  wall.’’ 


I - 


William  Arnold,  born  at  Rings- 
field,  Suffolk,  7  April,  1705  ;  died 
1  Dec.  1770  ;  bur.  in  St  Luke's 
Churchyard,  London. 


1778,  at  Cowes,  I.  of  Wight ;  bur. 
25  Sept,  following. 


Described  in=pJane,  dau.  of  William  Dunston,  of  Bramfield,  Suffolk,  by  Elizabeth, 
dau.  of  Ralph  Rabett,  of  Bramfield,  of  the  ancient  Suffolk  family  of 
that  name,  who  made  will,  Arch.  Suff.  5  Oct.  1661  ;  mar.  at  Weston, 
Suffolk,  9  July,  1704  ;  d.  at  Newport,  I.  of  Wight,  in  May  1672,  aged  92. 

- 1 

Elizabeth  Arnold,  bur. 
at  Ringsfield,  31  Aug. 
1719  ;  mar.  Samuel  Beau- 


Matthew  Arnold,  born  at  Rings-=j=Mary  Boyce,  of  Pulliam  Market,  Norfolk  ; 
field,  27  Nov.  1710  ;  died,  20  Sept 


d.  at  Cowes,  2  Mar.  1795,  in  her  79th 
year  ;  bur.  7  Mar.  following  near  her 


husband’s  grave. 


mont  of  Beccles. 


William  Arnold,  of  Slatwoods,  East  Cowes,  born  at  Warwick,  1745  ;  Collector  of  H.M.= 
Customs  at  the  port  of  Cowes.  Died  3  March  1801.  Monument  in  Whippingham  Church. 


=Martha,  dau.  of  John  Delafield  ;  mar.  6  April  1779, 
at  St.  Andrew’s,  Holborn,  co.  Middx. 


William  Arnold, 
b.  12  Feb.  1781, 
at  Cowes.  Col¬ 
lector  of  H.M. 
Customs  on  the 
Islandof  Tobago, 
1803  ;  d.  there 
27  Aug.  1806. 


n — r 


Martha,  b.  1782  :  mar. 
John  Ward,  Collector 
of  H.M.  Customs  at 
Cowes,  6  Nov.  1804. 

Lidia,  b.  1783  ;  mar. 
Richard,  7th  Earl  of 
Cavan,  by  whom  issue. 
See  Peerages. 


Matthew  Arnold,  B.D.,  b. 
10  Aug.  1785 ;  Scholar  of 
C.C.C.,  Oxford  ;  one  of  the 
Chaplains  of  the  Forces, 
1812  ;  served  with  the  army 
in  Sicily  and  atGenoa,  1815; 
drowned  at  Stokes  Bay  18 
May  1820.  Bur.  at  Whipp¬ 
ingham. 


i  r 

Susannah,  b.  at 
Cowes,  4  Apr. 
1787  ;  d.  at  Lale- 
ham,  22  Aug.  1832. 

Frances,  b.  1790  ; 
m.  the  Rev.  John 
Buckland,  1816;  d. 
at  Chertsey,  1863. 


b. 


Thomas  Arnold,  D.D., 

Cowes,  13  June  1795  ;  edu¬ 
cated  at  Winchester  and  C.C.C., 
Oxford  ;  afterwards  Fellow  of 
Oriel ;  Head  Master  of  Rugby, 
1827  ;  Professor  of  History  at 
Oxford  ;  d.  13  June  1842.  Mon¬ 
uments  in  Rugby  School  and 
Westminster  Abbey. 


at=pMary,  dau.  of 
the  Rev.  J. 
Penrose,  Rec¬ 
tor  of  Fled- 
borough;  mar. 
11  Aug.  1820 ; 
d.  Sept.  30 
1873,  aged  82. 


\P 


3  c 


r 


386 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


ARNOLD  OF  LOWESTOFT. 


387 


Slrnolb  of  iolocstofi  Com-  ^uffoifi. 


Matthew  Arnold  of  Lowestoft,  merchant,  bapt.  26  Dec.  1647  ;= 
mar.  25  Jan.  1675  :  bur.  2  Jan.  1709.  “  He  was  a  good  honest 

man,"  Parish  Register.  Will,  Our.  Ep.  Norw.,  13  April  1695, 
proved  9  Jan.  1709.  (See  preceding  page.) 


Thomasina,  dau  and  heir  of  Henry  Ooe,  of  Lowestoft,  whose 
will,  Arch.  Suff ,  dated  13  Oct.  1680,  was  proved  30  March, 
1681.  She  was  bapt.  4  March  1650  ;  bur.  at  Lowestoft, 
25  Aug.  1719,  aged  68. 


Coe  Arnold,  bapt.  at  Lowe- 
stoft,  29  Oct.  1676 ;  d. 
March  27  ;  bur.  March  29, 
1721.  Will  Cur.  Ep.  Norw. 
18  March  172J,  probate  12 
Ap.  1721.  Had,  with  other 


Matthew  Arnold, =pEliz’bt’h, 


•Susannah,  d.  27  March 
1720,  aged  48  ;  bur. 
with  her  husband  and 
their  eldest  son  and  his 
wife  in  a  family  vault 
in  the  churchyard  of 
Lowestoft. 


Thomas  Arnold,  bapt  26  Feb.  1679  :  Capt.- 
R.  N.  ;  boarded  the  “  Royal  St.  Philip,”  1 1 
June,  1718,  as  1st  Lieut,  of  H.M.S.  “Superbe,” 
and  captured  the  Spanish  Admiral’s  Flag  ; 
died  at  Great  Yarmouth,  31  Aug.  1737  ;  bur. 
in  the  S.  aisle  of  Lowestoft  Church,  where  a 
mural  tablet  is  erected  to  his  memory.  Will, 
P.  C.C.  proved  14  Dec.  1737.* 


-Elizabeth,  dau.  of  Thomas  South 
North  Cove,  co.  Suffolk  and  Judith 
wife.  Licence  to  marry  at  the  Par: 
Church  of  Greenwich,  dated  7  Sei 
1724  ;  d.  at  Stratford  le  Bow,  17  N< 
1789  ;  bur.  at  Little  Ilford,  Essex, 
Nov.  following.  Will,  P.C.C.  18  M 
1788,  proved  21  Nov.  1789. 


I 

Matthew  Arnold,  of  Lowestoft,  bapt. 
May  1682;  died  15  Feb.,  bur.  19  Feb. 
174J,  in  family  vault,  in  St.  Margaret’s 
Churchyard.  Will,  P.C.C.,  dated  24  May 
1732,  proved  3  Aug.  1742. 


2=f  Elizabeth,  dau.  and  ultimately  heiress  of  Richard 
Aldous,  of  Huntingfield  ;  descended  from  a 
Suffolk  family  which  held  the  Rectory  of 
Fressingfield  of  the  Crown  in  the  16th  and  17th 
centuries  ;  d.  6  Oct.  1723,  aged  42  ;  bur.  10  Oct. 
following,  in  family  vault,  in  Lowestoft  Church¬ 
yard. 


eldest  son,  bapt. 
4  Dec.  1701  ;  d. 
7  May,  bur.  11 
May  1761,  with 
his  parents  in 
the  family  vault 
at  Lowestoft. 


d.  21  Sept. 
1785,  ®t. 
85  ;  bur. 
with  her 
husband 
24  Sept, 
follow¬ 
ing. 


Thomas  Arnold, bapt.  9  Dec. 
1725.  Sailed  round  the 
world  as  Midshipman  of 
H.M.S.  “Centurion,”  under 
Lord  Anson;  d.  9  May  1761; 
bur.  with  his  father  in 
Lowestoft  church.  Will, 
P.C.C. 29  Sept.  1750, probate 
13  June  1761. 


Sampson  Arnold, = 
bapt.6  May  1728, 
at  Lowestoft  ; 
Lieut.,  R.N.  Ad- 
mon,  P.C.C.  8 
Aug.  1765.  Resi¬ 
ded  at  Hadiscoe. 
but  not  buried 
there. 


=Caroline,  dau.  of  Tho¬ 
mas  Carthew,  of  Ben- 
acre  Hall  and  Wood- 
bridge  Abbey  ;  bapt. 
15  March  1737 ;  d. 
June  14  1802, at  Nor¬ 
wich,  bur.  June  17  in 
St.  Augustine’B 
Churchyard. 


Caroline,  mar.  1st,  William  AddingtJ'giret, 
cousin  of  Henry  Addington,  1st  Viscoift.  July  16 
Sidmouth.  His  will, P.C.C.  22  AugJlaO;  married 
wasproved8  June  1779.  2d,  John  Cart i uel  Bar- 
Allen,  Admiral  of  the  White.  His  '«■  of  Lowes- 
P.O.C.,  was  proved  16  Oct.  1800.  She  ,  1  Jan. 
30  Nov.  1796,  aged  65,  and  was  bur. 

Little  Ilford  Her  will,  P.C.C.,  w. 
proved  17  Jan.  1797.  =7- 


Matthew  Dorcas 

Arnold.  1st  wife,  born  16 

bapt.  12  Dec.  1725  ;  married 

Feb.1714  19  Feb.  174f  died 

married  1  May  1758  ;  buried 

fold  had  in  St.  Margaret’s 

issue.  Church,  Lowestoft. 


Sutherland, =j=Aldous  Arnold,  born  16  April,  bapt.  30  April^Frances,  2d  wife,  dau.  =Margaret  3«L 
’  _  . _  _  it  M  C  <<  **  Povprrrpvr  Rrnwnft.  W1T0.  WICIOW 


Aldous  Arnold,  Sur-=pHenrietta  Anna  Eliza,  dau.  of  Peter  Le 
geon,  bapt.  24  Dec.  j  Neve,  of  Norwich,  great-grand-niece  of 
1738  ;  bur.  28  Nov.  Peter  Le  Neve,  Norroy  King  at  Arms  ;  mar. 
1803-  I  at  St.  Peter’s,  Mancroft,  Norwich. 

/k 


Wilhelmina  Caroline  Addington,  sole= 
dau.  and  heiress  ;  died  20  March 
1822,  aged  66  ;  bur.  at  Little  Ilford. 


]- 


1713  ;  served  as  Midshipman  in  H.M.S.  “Fox 
under  his  uncle,  Capt.  Thomas  Arnold,  1727-32  ; 
devisee  of  his  uucle,  Richard  Aldous,  of  Wing¬ 
field,  1750  ;  after  leaving  the  Navy,  became 
Merchant;  d.  24  Dec.  1792  ;  bur.  Dec.  29  in  St. 
Margaret’s  Church,  Lowestoft. 


of  Peregrey  Browne, 
of  Bungay ;  bom  14 
Oct.  1726  ;  bapt.  26 
Oct.,  at  St.  Peter’s, 
Mancroft,  Norwich  ;  d. 
23  June  ;  bur.  27  June 
1767,  in  St.  Margaret’s 
Church,  Lowestoft. 


wife,  widow 
of  James  Dur- 
rant  ;  m.  8 
Oct.  1782  ;  d. 
21  Jan.  1825, 
aged  90  years. 


:Jatnes  Hatch,  of  ClayberrjWd  Aldous 
Hall,  co.  Essex  ;  died  8  Retold,  b.  20 
1806,  aged  56  ;  bur.  at  LittS,  1747  ;  ob. 
Ilford,  Essex.  Ids. 


Elizabeth 
Arnold,  b. 
and  bap.  8 
Oct.  1749. 


Aldous  Charles  Arnold,  b.  26  Jan.  1763,  at  Yarmouth,  bapt.-, 
12  March  following,  at  Lowestoft ;  entered  the  R.N.  and  was 
present  at  the  grand  attack  on  Gibraltar,  13  Sept.  1782,  as 
Midshipman  in  H.M.S.  “Royal  William,”  under  Capt.  John 
Carter  Allen  (son-in-law  of  Capt.  Thomas  Arnold)  ;  d.  28  May 
1809  ;  buried  in  Lowestoft  Church, 


_ I 

= Henrietta,  dau.  of  George  Doughty,  of  Theber- 
ton  Hall,  High  Sheriff  of  Suffolk,  1793,  and 
Anne,  his  wife,  dau.  of  John  Goodwin  of  Mart- 
lesham  Hall  ( see  p.  214)  ;  born  18  July  1769  ; 
married  27  Oct.  1791 ;  died  18  May  1796  ;  bur¬ 
ied  24  May  May  following  in  Lowestoft  Church. 


James  Hatch,  only  son, 
Fellow  Commoner  of  Trin. 
Coll.  Cambridge  ;  d.  2  April 
1804  in  his  21st  year. 


Caroline  Elizabeth  Hatch,  b.  22  May  1779,  mar.  John  ....  Hatch, 

Rutherford  Abdy  (afterwards  known  as  J.  R.  Hatch  married  (the 
Abdy)  of  Stapleford  Abbot’s,  co.  Essex,  16  July,  1800,  Rev.  Thomas?) 
at  Barking  ;  died  4  May  1838,  buried  at  Ilford.  Mills 


Louisa  Hatch,  youngest  daughteiiard  Aldous  Arnold,  b.  8  Dec.,  bap.  12= 
mar.  at  Barking,  Essex,  27  De<j,  1792,  at  St.  Margaret’s,  Lowestoft. 
1822,  Hon.  William  Rufus  Rous,  glleman  Commoner  of  Trinity  College, 
son  of  the  first  Earl  of  StradbrokSinl  ;  Rector  of  Ellough,  co.  Suffolk  ;  d. 

-  pril  1877  ;  buried  at  Ellough. 


=Charlotte,  dau.  of  Wottou  Birchenshaw 
Thomas,  of  Chesterfield,  co.  Derby  ;  born  20 
April  1795  ;  mar.  at  Chesterfield,  2  Dec. 
1816  ;  died  21  May  1832  ;  buried  at  Ellough. 


Charles  Thomas  Arnold,  b.  at  El- 
lough,  26  Oct.  1817  ;  educated  at 
Rugby  School  and  Balliol  Coll.,  Ox¬ 
ford  ;  Clerk  in  Holy  Orders  ;  Assis¬ 
tant  Master  at  Rugby  ;  d.  at  Rome, 
13  May  1878  ;  buried  in  the  Protes¬ 
tant  Cemetery  there. 


;Susanna  Magdalena,  dau.  of  Heinrich 
Mays,  of  Heidelberg,  b.  7  July  1820  ; 
m.  at  Heidelberg,  by  Pastor  D. 
Eggly,  11  Jan.,  aud  at  Frankfort  on 
the  Main,  15  Jan.  1842,  by  the  Rev. 
Richard  Aldous  Arnold. 


the  Rev.  Job 


William  Munnings  Arnold,  b.  26  Oct.  181 9,=f=  Ellen ,  dau 
at  Ellough  ;  went  to  Australia.  Minister  of 
Public  Works  aud  afterwards  Speaker  to  the 
Legislative  Assembly,  N.S.W.  ;  drowned  at 
Stradbroke,  N.S.W.,  1  March  1875,  by  the 
flooding  of  the  Paterson  river. 


Hartlebury 
co.  Gloucester. 


of 


Henrietta  Ann  Arnold,  b.  27  Sept.,  bapt.  1  Oct. 
1795,  at  Lowestoft ;  mar.  at  Ellough,  10  Feb  1820, 
Thomas  Wood,  of  Arthingworth,  Northampton¬ 
shire;  d.  25  July  1829,  at  Lowestoft;  bur.  29 
July,  in  Lowestoft  Church. 


0  erick  Montagu  Arnold, '-pMadeline, 
Ellough,  10  Mar.  1823;  I  dau.  of 


Jennings  Smitl  c  in  Holy  Orders  ;  Rec 
formerly  Recto  ,f  Ringsfield,  co.  Suf- 
died  11  Aug.  1898  ; 
at  Ringsfield. 


Richard 

Ozanne. 


Mary,  b.  at  Ellough,  14 
April  1825  ;  married  her 
2d  cousin,  Rear  Admiral  F. 
Proby  Doughty,  R.N.,  who 
died  at  Lowestoft,  29  July 
1892,  aged  58. 


Eleanor,  b.  27 
March  1828, 
at  Ellough, 
married  Louis 
Butcher,  Esq. 


Charlotte  A  dele,  b.  18  June 
1829,  at  Ellough  ;  mar.  her 
2d  cousin,  the  Rev.  Edgar 
Montagu,  Rector  of  Kettle- 
stone,  Norfolk,  where  she 
died  24  April  1895. 


Isabella  Jane,  b.  at  El¬ 
lough,  12  Feb.  1831  ; 
mar.  Colonel  Richard 
Edgell,  afterwards  Chief 
Constable  of  Shropshire  ; 
d.  Julv  27  1898. 


\1/ 


Thomas  Henry  Jebb  ChTrles  Jebb  Arnold,  b.  18  Ernest  Penrose  Arnold,  b.  l=Clara  Eliza,  dau.  of  Richard  Bright,  M.D  F.R.S.,  Phy-  jna  Margaret,  b.  at  Rugby  ;  mar.  Franck  Thomas  Arnoid,  b.  at  Rugby,  f 5  Sept -1861  > 

Arnold  b  at  Rugby  April  1845.  at  Rugby.  En-  Aug.  1847  ;  educated  at  Rugby  sician  Extraordinary  to  the  Queen,  and  sister  of  the  , Frank  Newall,  m.A.,  of  Trinity  Coll,  at  Rugby  School,  and  Trim  Coll.,  Cam).  ,  mar.  18  u  7, 

19  May  1843  ob  sign  in  the  77th  Regt.  ;  d.  at  and  Balliol  Coll.,  Oxford  Rev.  Franck  Bright,  D.  D„  Master  of  Umv.  Coll.,  Ox,  lk,  at  St.  Martin  s  in  the  Fields. 

inf<  y  ’  Peshawur.in  India, 9 J  une  1 867.  ford;  m.3  April  1880, at  St.  John’s  Church, Padding^ 


:Edith  Maud,  dau.  of  the  late  8. 
W.  Kelly,  of  Cardiff,  J.P.  for 
Glamorgan. 


Karl  Ferdinand  Franck  William  Arnold,  b.  19  March  1888, 
and  bapt.,  privately,  at  Penarth,  near  Cardiff. 


Frederic  Maximilian  Thomas  Arnold,  b.  29  Aug.  1889,  at 
Cardiff  ;  bapt.  at  St.  Margaret’s  Church,  Lowestoft. 


*  Captain  Thomas  Arnold,  then  first  lieutenant  of  the  “Superbe,”  was  present  ill  Admiral  Byng’s  action  off  Cape  Paasarl.i  and>  though  severely  wounded  carried  it.  The  colours  of  the  “  Royal  St.  I Philip,  ’  and  an  °W  chart  of  the  Mediterraneam ■ 
in  1718.  After  a  running  fight  of  two  hours,  in  which  the  “Kent”  and  the  “Superbe”  engaged  the  “  Royal  St.  Philip,  th|Ved  by  Captajn  Arnold,  stm  in  the  possession  of  his  descendants.  It  s  ov Ktommry  rtJxwgMto  ^^s^across 
flag  ship  of  the  Spanish  Admiral,  and  two  others,  the  “Kent”  bore  down  upon  her,  and  passing  under  her  stern  8a'  streets  at  weddings,  and  the  colours  of  the  Royal  St.  P 11  ip  ar  fl  y  the^  Parish  Church  where  he  is  buried 

broadside  and  fell  to  leeward.  The  Captain  of  the  “Superbe,”  doubtful  how  best  to  follow  up  the  attack  consulted  M>|a„,led  the  “  Spy  ”  and  the  “Fox.”  There  is  a  monument  to  Jpg  TOrd  Ans0ninthe  “Centurirn’’  Te* 

Arnold  who  said  that  the  eyes  of  the  whole  fleet  were  upon  him  at  that  moment,  and  advised  him  to  board  the  y  .,§ner  with  his  son  Thomas,  who,  as  a  Midshipman,  sailed  roun 

Philip’’  immediately,  sword  in  hand.  This  counsel  was  put  into  execution,  and  Arnold,  as  his  office  obliged  him,  oai  1  gwciter’s  History  of  Lowestoft.  g  ^2 


388 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


9Ptoou0  of  imntmafieltf. 


Richard  Aldous,  living  1563,  held  the  Rectory  of  Fressingfield,  etc.,=j=.  .  . 
co.  Suffolk,  of  the  Crown  ;  this  he  alienated  in  1611  to  Samuel 
Aldous  his  son.  Originalia,  9  Jas.  I.,  Inq.  p.  mortem,  etc.  Will, 

Arch.  Suff.,  dated  and  proved,  1612. 


Samuel  Aldous,  son  and  heir,  held=j= 
the  Rectory  of  Fressingfield.  Inqui¬ 
sition  post  mortem,  9  Chas.,  circa  1633, 
died  30  May,  8  Chas.  I. 


TT 


James  Aldous,  had  wife 
Elizabeth,  1612. 

Matthie  Aldous,  had  wife 
Susan,  1612. 


John  Aldous, 
1612,  had  issue 
a  daughterMary, 
then  under  age. 


i — r 


Richard  Aldous  had 
wife  Margaret,  1612. 

William  Aldous  had 
wife  Mary,  1612. 


— 1 — 1  l  l 

Mary,  Anne, 
Elizabeth,  and 
Joan,  named  in 
their  father’s 
will. 


Richard  Aldous,  under  age,  1612 
named  in  his  grandfather’s  will. 


Robert  Aldous,  son  and  heir,  born  1611  ;  held  the  Rectory  of- 
Fressingfield,  &c  Buried  at  Huntingfield,  co.  Suffolk,  17  Oct. 
1664.  Davy. 


^Honour,  his  widow,  made  will,  Arch. 
Suff.  25  April,  1682,  proved  30  Nov. 
1683.  See  Davy’s  Suffolk  Pedigrees. 


Francis  Aldous  of  Middleton,  co. 
Fordley.  In  will  dated  Jan.  1668, 
devised  Fressingfield  Rectory 
and  other  lands  to  his  mother 
for  life  ;  then  to  his  sister  Beart 
and  her  issue. 


William  Aldous  of  Fressing-=pCicely 


field,  1668,  of  Huntingfield, 
1674,  when  he  made  will  21 
July,  proved  13  Sept.  Arch. 
Suff.,  naming  Francis  his 
brother. 


his  wife, 

living 

1674. 


- ! - 

Catherine  Ald¬ 
ous,  she  made 
will  as  Cather¬ 
ine  Woodcock, 
widow,  20  July 
1718. 


LJolm  Woodcock 
of  Middleton,  co. 
Fordley,  mar¬ 
ried  1666  ;  bur. 
there  1681. 


- 1 

Elizabeth,  wife  of 
Roger  Beart,  to  whom 
her  brother  Francis 
Aldous  devised  the 
Rectory  of  Fressing¬ 
field. 


Richard  Aldous  of  Hunt-=7=Marv 


b. 


ingfield  ;  b.  1668  ;  devisee 
of  Francis  Aldous,  his 
uncle.  M.I.  in  Hunting- 
field  Church  ;  d.  28  Aug. 
1739,  aged  71. 


1676  ;d.  16 
Marchl753, 
ag’d77  ;M.I. 
in  Hunting- 
field  Church 


Honour,  mar. 
.  .  .  Simpson  ; 
devisee  of 
Honour  Ald- 
hous,  1682. 


Lucretia, 
named  in 
will  of  her 
grandmother 
Aldhouse. 


Catherine  Wood¬ 
cock,  dau.  and  coh. 
mar.  John  Martin 
of  BrundiBh,  co. 
Suffolk  and  had 
issue  ;  d.  1720. 


Honour  Woodcock, 
dau.  and  coh.  died 
unm,  ;  named  in  the 
will  of  Honour  Ald¬ 
ous  her  grandmother. 


Frances  Woodcock 
dau.  and  coh.,  mar. 
Rev.  Thos.  Mead¬ 
ows,  Reetorof  Ben- 
acre,  co.  Suffolk, 
and  had  issue. 


Richard  Aldous  of  Wingfield.  Will  dated 
4  Dec.  1750,  leaving  his  lands  to  Aldous 
Arnold  of  Lowestoft  his  nephew. 


Elizabeth  Aldous,  daughter  and  ulti-=j=Matthew  Arnold,  of  Lowestoft,  bapt.  2  May  1682  ; 


mately  heiress  ;  d.  6  Oct.  1723,  aged  42 
bur.  in  vault  in  Lowestoft  churchyard. 


bur.  19  Feb.  174J  in  St.  Margaret's  churchyard. 
WillP.C.C.  dated  24  May  1732,  proved  3  Aug.  1742. 


Aldous  Arnold,  born  16  April,  1713. 


The  Arms  of  Richard  Aldous,  as  depicted  on  his  monument  in  Huntingfield  Church,  are  a  lion  rampant  holding  a  ring 
in  his  dexter  paw.  Crest  :  Out  of  a  Viscount’s  Coronet,  a  demi-lion  rampt.  ;  in  his  sinister  paw  a  sword  erect. 

Those  claimed  by  John  Aldous  of  Moulton,  at  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  1664.  who  was  probably  one  of  the  same  family, 

were  Argent,  a  chevron  between  three  birds  displaying  rising  Gules ;  on  a  chief  Sable,  three  mullets  of  the  field.  The  crest 
was  a  bird  rising  Gules.  Harl.  MS.  10S5. 

The  constant  intercourse  between  our  sea  coast  towns  in  the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries,  a  fact  scarcely  sufficiently 
realized  at  the  present  time,  lends  some  support  to  the  assumption  that  the  Arnolds  of  Lowestoft,  Dunwich  and  Cromer  ( Norf. 
Visitns.  Harl.  Soc.),  all  belonged  to  the  same  stock.  That  some  of  the  latter  did  settle  in  Suffolk  is  known  from  the  Will 

of  Gertrude  Arnold  of  Oxnead,  1624,  and  from  the  pedigree  of  John  Arnold,  of  Battisford,  in  the  Suffolk  Visitation  of  Sir 

Edward  Bysshe.  These  Battsford  Arnolds  bore  for  their  Arms,  Sable,  a  chevron  between  three  dolphins  embowed  Argent. 
Their  Crest  was,  On  a  wreath  a  dolphin  embowed  Argent.  Harl.  MS.  10S5. 


CORRIGENDA  ET  ADDENDA. 


389 


Corrigenda  et  Addenda. 


Page  25.  Winthrop  of  Groton.  Alice  “  Henny,”  1st  wife  of  Adam  Winthrop.  Probably  Alice  Hunne.  See  the  Cely- 
Hunne-Byrd  matter  on  pp.  166  and  223.  By  a  typographical  mistake  she  is  stated  to  have  died  25  June 
1533.  The  month  should  be  January.  See  the  Latin  pedigree  of  Winthrop,  p.  4. 

Ibid.  William  Winthrop  is  here  stated  to  have  died  2  March  1682,  but  the  Latin  pedigree  (p.  6)  gives  the 
date  1  March  1581,  which  is  probably  correct. 

Ibid.  Jane  Winthrop,  who  married  Thomas  Gostlin,  is  said  to  have  been  married  on  Jan.  3,  1612.  This  is  a 
printer’s  error.  The  date  ( see  p.  6)  was  Jan.  6.  She  did  not  die,  as  here  stated,  in  1616,  but  was 

living  as  late  as  15  Feb.  1663,  when  she  is  mentioned  in  her  sister  Downing’s  letter.  See  p.  95. 

Page  26.  Winthrop  of  Boston.  By  a  typographical  error  Deane  Winthrop  is  described  as  having  been  born  in  1632. 
This  should  be  1623. 

Ibid.  John  Winthrop  (last  descent  but  one)  did  not  die,  1819,  at  Baton  Rouge,  but  at  Washington,  U.S. 

Pages  26-27.  John  Winthrop,  eldest  son  of  John  Winthrop  and  Mary  Forth,  was  reallyT  born  12  Feb.  1605,  Old 
Style,  as  stated  on  p.  7.  But  on  pp.  26-27,  the  New  Style  date,  1606  is  given.  Feb.  12  is  transformed, 
‘by  typographical  error,  into  Feb.  15. 

Page  26.  John  Winthrop  was  undoubtedly  married  to  Mary  Forth  on  the  16th  of  April  1605,  as  stated  on  p.  7  ; 
but  the  month  is  here  erroneously  given  as  March. 

Page  27.  Winthrop  of  New  London.  Martha  Fones,  first  wife  of  John  Winthrop,  jun.,  was  married  in  February, 
1631,  New  Style,  not  1630  a3  stated  in  the  text. 

Ibid.  Fitz  John  Winthrop,  it  turns  out,  was  born  in  Boston,  not  in  “  Ipswich,”  as  often  stated. 

Page  28.  Winthrop  of  Antigua.  The  first  volume  of  Mr.  Vere  Langford  Oliver’s  admirable  History  of  Antigua  had  not 

been  issued  when  our  account  of  the  Winthrops  of  that  island  went  to  the  press.  He  points  out  that 
Sarah  Winthrop,  wife  of  Colonel  Samuel  Jones,  was  not  “  probably  s.p.,”  as  is  usually  represented,  but 
that  she  married  2d  Colonel  Edward  Byam,  brother  of  her  sister’s  husband,  and  left  issue  by  him. 

Page  30.  Winthrop  of  London.  The  Rev.  Edward  Winthrop,  who  died  in  1824  (not  1826),  was  Vicar  of  Dareuth, 

co.  Kent,  and  not  Rector  of  West  Mailing,  as  to  which  we  were  misinformed.  His  wife  was  daughter 

of  Henry  Everleigh,  gent.,  of  Teignton,  co.  Devon.  His  daughter  Martha  died  unmarried  in  1855,  but  her 
sister  Frances  married  in  1845  the  Rev.  John  Woodruff,  Vicar  of  Upchurch,  Kent,  and  left  issue,  inter 
al.  the  Rev.  Charles  Everleigh  Woodruff,  M.A.  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford,  and  now  Rector  of  Otterden. 

Ibid.  William  Winthrop,  sometime  Fellow  of  St.  John’s  College,  Cambridge,  married  Frances  Mary,  daughter  of 
the  Rev.  George  Feacliam,  Vicar  of  Dorking,  Surrey. 

Page  41.  Sharpe  of  Islington.  “John  Bullen  ”  should  be  John  Buller.  This  was,  perhaps,  the  “cosen  Bulwer” 
who  came  to  Adam  Winthrop’s  house  a  day  or  two  before  he  went  to  see  his  cousin  Joan  Muskett, 
2  June  1597.  Adam  Winthrop’s  Diary. 

Page  65.  Alabaster  of  Hadleigh.  According  to  the  parish  registers  of  St.  Peter’s,  Cornhill,  Thomas  Alabaster 

described  in  Adam  Winthrop’s  Diary  as  having  died  in  1620,  was  buried  June  4th  1624.  It  is  not 

always  easy  to  explain  the  conflicting  dates  of  contemporary  documents.  In  this  instance  it  is  not 
improbable  that  different  persons  were  referred  to. 

Page  64.  Vesey  of  Wix.  Joan,  daughter  of  William  Cardinall  of  Bromley,  and  widow  of  Robert  Vesey  of  Wix, 
married  secondly  Robert  Suckling,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  Norwich,  19  Nov.  1577.  Her  son  Charles  Suckling  of 
Woodton,  Norfolk  and  Barsham,  Suffolk,  intermarried  with  the  Drurys  of  Aylsham  and  of  Besthorpe. 
See  pp.  370  and  355. 

Page  76.  Still  of  Hadleigh.  For  the  will  of  George  Still,  B.D.,  the  Bishop’s  brother,  see  p.  165. 

Page  86.  Fones  of  Nustbed.  On  the  last  line  of  the  ancient  pedigree  of  his  family  Samuel  Fones  is  described 

as  “act.  12  a0  1628.”  In  the  modern  pedigree  which  follows  he  is  said  to  be  “aged  11  a0  1629.” 

The  latter  date  is  given  in  the  Inquisition  of  his  father,  Thomas  Fones.  Discrepancies  of  this  kind  are 
not  uncommon  in  old  documents,  which  were  based  oftentimes  upon  verbal  evidence  only7. 


390 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Page  87.  Subsequent  discoveries,  including  the  will  of  Marj’  Paul,  given  on  p.  168,  and  those  of  her  sister  Sarah 
Fones  (P.C.C.  46  Edmunds),  and  her  cousin,  Eleazar  Hasell  (P.C.C.  8  Isham),  have  established  an 
important  modification  of  the  pedigree  of  Fones  of  Suffolk.  Mary,  the  daughter  of  Eleazar  Dunkon, 
was  the  wife  of  Dr.  Thomas  Fones,  and  not,  as  here  erroneously  stated,  of  Samuel  Fones,  his  father. 
In  this  instance,  as  sometimes  happens,  the  lives  of  father  and  son,  were  almost  contemporaneous,  and 
each  had  a  wife  named  Mary.  Barnaby  and  Anne  Fones  were  devisees,  not  of  Eleazar  Dunkon,  but  of 
their  brother,  the  Doctor,  who  pre  deceased  his  father  by  fifteen  years. 

Page  99.  Downing  of  Ipswich.  Susan  Downing,  wife  of  Francis  Kirby,  had  previously  married  Joseph  Carter,  by 
whom  she  left  issue.  See  the  will  of  Richard  Blades,  1634,  in  the  Commissary  Court  of  London. 

Page  118.  Fokth  Pedigree,  Candler  MSS.  “His  wife  had  a  child,  but  he  disowned  it.’’  The  story  of  the  domestic 

disagreements  of  Charles  Forth  and  Elizabeth  Jernegau,  his  wife,  is  given  in  a  suit  in  the  Court  of 
Requests,  Hunt’s  Series,  27,  45.  Two  children  were  born  of  the  marriage,  but  the  husband  is  described 
as  a  spendthrift  and  a  rover,  and  the  Blois  MS.  tells  us  that  he  was  ultimately  disinherited  by  his 
father. 

Page  119.  Forth  of  Hadleigh.  The  parish  register  of  St.  Dionis  Backchurch,  London,  shows  that  William  Forth 
married  Elizabeth  Powell  17  Jan.  1540,  Old  Style. 

Ibid.  William  Forth  of  Hadleigh,  who  died  in  1599,  had  but  one  wife,  Dorothy  Harvey,  as  shown  on  p.  315. 

Joan  Kene,  described  in  the  MSS.  as  his  second  wife,  was  in  reality  Dorothy  Harvey’s  mother. 

Page  144.  Clopton  of  Groton.  The  excellent  pedigree  of  Clopton  in  Add.  MS.  5523,  tells  us  (fo.  84b)  that  “  Will’m 

Clopton,  now  of  Groton  in  com  Suff.  (the  father  of  Thomasine  Winthrop)  was  y  1  y  builded  and 

dwelte  at  Castlelynes  in  p’ish  of  Groton  p’d,  who  haueinge  spent  all  his  fath’s  lands  and  patrimonye,  he  became 
heire  to  his  Yncle  frauncz  of  Melford  p'ke.  This  Wm  Clopton  now  is  an  Esq  vizt’  one  of  if  Justices  for 
y ‘  Hundred  of  Babrega  1614.” 

Page  145.  Clopton  of  Liston.  The  pedigree  of  Clopton  of  Liston,  Add.  MS.  5523,  fo.  85a,  written  in  1713,  adds  so 
much  to  the  knowledge  of  the  later  descents  of  that  family,  that  we  insert  it  in  this  place. 


2.  William  Clopton  dyed 

vnmar.  bur.  at . 

lived  with  his  brother. 


William  Clopton  of  Liston  in  Essex  Esqr.=j=Anne  dr  of  John  Wiseman  of  Stisted,  Essex  Esqr. 


1.  Thomas  Clop-~- 
ton  of  Liston 
Esqr. 


-Eliz.  da.  of  Martin  Sparrow 
of  Burbrooke  Esqr  by  Haverill 
Suff. 


3.  John  Clopton  of  Thur-=f=  Franc.  dr  of 


loro  Poxyerd  dyed  at  Lees 
in  Essex. 


of 


Le  Mott 


i - 1  i - 

1.  Elizab  :  mar.  to  2.  Anne  mar.  3.  Jane  mar. 
Thomas  Cheyney  of  to  Rob* 1  Dal-  to  John  Bacon 
Eye  Suff.  left  no  lasonofEye  of  Colchester 
child.  Suff.  Essex. 


William  Clopton —.  ...  dr  Mercy  marred  Frances  mar.  Anne  vnmar. 


Rector  of .  to  Sr  Gerrad  to  . .  Tichborne  — 

by  Easton  ad-  ......  Alleyn  of  Lees  Clopton  dyed  Elizab :  vn- 

icient.  Bart.  vnmar.  mar. 


1 - 1 - T" — 

!t.  Mary  mar.  to  5.  Lucy  mar.  6.  Frances 
James  Coker  of  Philip  Goodwyn  dyed 
Nottley  black  Rector  of  Lyston,  young. 
Essex.  Essex. 


— I 

Margaret,  mar. 
to  John  Dawney 
Rector  of  Roy- 
don  Suff. 


~r 

i - 1 - i  I - n 

1.  Sr  Clopton  Aleyn  2.  George  Aleyn  1.  Frances, 
of  Lees  in  Essex  vnmar.  — 

vnmar.  —  2.  Anne  vn- 

3.  John  vnmar.  mared . 


1.  (William)  Clopton  of-f=Eliz  :  dr  of  Sr  William 


Liston  Esqr  dyed  . 
day  of ...  .  169 
buried  at  Lyston. 


Poley  of  Boxted,  Suff. 
living  a  widdow  with 
her  son  at  Liston  1713. 


- 1 — i — ; - 

2.  Martin  Clopton. 

3.  Thomas  Clopton 
both  dyed  vnmar. 


- 1 

J.  John  Clopton=p  Frances  dr  of  Henry  Berney  of  An- 
liveing.  \  mere,  Nurff.  dyed,  buried  at  London. 

n - 1 

1,  Elizabeth;  2,  Mary,  both  vnmarred  1713. 


1.  William— Anne,  dr  of 
Clopton  of  ...  Crisp  of 
Lgstonl7l3,  Bury  Suff., 
no  child.  no  child. 


- 1 — i  - 

2.  Poley  Clopton,  Dr0fPhe- 
seck  of  Bury  Suff.,  vnmar. 

Elizabeth  mar.  to  Edward 
Crisp  of  Bury  in  Suff. 


2d  w . 

dr  of . 

Kemp,  Rector 
of  Foxyerd 
Suff. 


=j =5.  Mathew=j=l  wife.  .  . 
Clopton  of  dr  of ..  . 
Conywes-  Smith  of 
ston  Suff.  . 


i  i  i 

6.  Walter  7.  Bernardiston 

Clopton  Clopton  dyed  vnmar. 

dyed  mar.,  — 

but  had  no  8.  Wyseman  dyed 

child.  vnmar. 


Mercy  dyed  1.  Thomas  Clopton  2.  Walter  Clopton 

vnmar.  vnmar.  vnmar. 


1.  Mathew  Clopton—.  ...  2.  Richard  of=p.  .  .  Eliz  :  mar., 

of  Wolpit,  Suff.,  dr  of  Cony  Weston.  \  no  child, 
no  child.  ....  I 

1  son. 


Page  164.  Reade  of  Wickford.  Elizabeth  Reade,  second  wife  of  John  Winthrop,  jun.,  Governor  of  Connecticut,  was 
born  in  1614,  not  “  1617  ”  as  stated  by  typographical  error. 

Page  166.  Winthrope  of  Groton.  The  first  wife  of  Adam  Winthrop  died  in  1553,  not  1538  as  erroneously  printed. 


CORRIGENDA  ET  ADDENDA. 


391 


Page  167. 
Page  170. 
Page  192. 


Page  200. 


Page  216. 


Page  223. 


Another  daughter  of  Vincent  Norrington  was  wife  of  Thomas  Palmer,  citizen  and  goldsmith  of  London, 
for  whose  will,  proved  16  May  1614,  see  New  England  Genealogical  Register  for  January  1899. 

Citllum  of  Hawstkad.  The  will  of  Charles  Cullum  of  Duntnow,  1689,  was  proved  Arch.  Middx.,  Essex 
and  Herts,  Book  “  Sewell,”  p.  277b. 

Garnkys  of  Mickfibld.  The  late  Mr.  Joseph  Woodcock,  solicitor,  of  20,  Lincoln’s  Inn  Fields,  London, 
claimed  to  be  a  descendant  of  John  Woodcock  of  Haleswortk  who  married  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John 
Garneys  of  Hoxford.  He  was  an  ardent  student  of  heraldry,  and  left  drawings,  seal  impressions,  etc., 
of  the  Garney’s  qnarterings,  differing  but  little  from  those  described  on  p.  189. 

Ghioo  of  Bealings  Parva.  The  will  of  Dame  Rechord  Deane  (P.C.C.  143  Pembroke),  dated  15  July  1648, 
abounds  with  references  to  the  Griggs  and  their  connections.  Robert  Grigg,  her  son,  then  deceased,  is 
described  as  a  Minister  of  God’s  Word,  and  his  children  as  under  age  at  that  date. 

Goodwin  of  Booking.  Stowe  MS.  790,  now  re-numbered  692,  is  officially  described  as  ‘‘An  Alphabet  of 
Armes  in  the  Handwriting  of  Sr  Christopher  Barker,  Garter,”  who  held  office  from  1536  to  1549.  His 
signature  occurs  on  fo.  2.  Amongst  his  grants,  which  are  given  at  the  end  of  each  letter,  is  the 

following : — “  Will’m  Goodwyn  of  bokkynge  in  the  Countie  of  Essex  argent  a  pale  goulles  theron  a  flowre 
de  luce  of  the  fyrst  betwenc  ij  plats  /  on  eche  syde  a  torteaux  bytwene  two  floare  delyce  of  the  pale  /  on 
his  Creste  a  sleepe  of  mallowes  verte  thereon  ij  Counyes  encountrante  argent  /  browsynge  thereon  /  the  wrethe 
or  and  b.  Mantell  g  \  lyned  argent  /  bottomd  or/.” 

Goodwin  of  Bull’s  Hall.  Two  seventeenth  century  pedigrees,  the  one  in  the  College  of  Arms  and 
the  other  in  the  Free  Library  at  Norwich,  throw  much  light  upon  the  marriages  and  descendants  of 
Cecily  Reedham.  The  first,  dated  about  1633,  gives  the  common  ancestry  of  Sir  Thurston  Smith  of 
Cratfield  in  Suffolk  and  Sir  Owen  Symth  of  Ermingland  in  Norfolk,  and  the  second,  copied  in  1657, 
relates  to  the  Spelmans.  Thomas  Spelman  of  Norwich,  it  tells  us,  third  sou  of  Erasmus  Spelman  of 
Beeston,  near  Litcham,  in  Norfolk,  married  Cecily,  daughter  and  heir  of  Reedham,  widow  of  Raphe 
Goodwyn  of  Ipswich,  and,  before  that,  of  Smyth  of  Suffolk.  From  these  and  other  sources  the  following 
brief  pedigree  may  be  deducted  : — 


John  Smith  of  Cratfield,  in=pCecily,  dau.  and  co-heir  of= 


co.  Suffolk,  1st  husband, 
Ped.  Suff.  Visit.  166 j  ;  had 
with  other  issue 


Reedham  of  Ips¬ 
wich  ;  under  age  1561. 
Redham  c.  Layer. 


:Raphe  Goodwin  of  Ipswich,  =Thomas  Spelman  of  Norwich,  3d 
grandson  of  Raphe  Goodwin,  son  of  Erasmus  Spelman  by  Ursula, 
Portman  of  that  town  ;  2d  his  wife,  dan.  of  Sir  Edward  Bayn- 
husband.  ton  ;  3d  husband. 


1 


Sir  Thurston  Smith  of  Cratfield,  Knighted  1625.=Willoughby,  dau.  Raphe  Goodwin,  half  brother  and  devisee  of  Sir  Thurs- 
Harl.  MS:  6062  :  died  on  Jan.  7,  1 649,  sine  prole,  of  Edward  Brewse,  ton  Smith  1649  ;  bapt.  at  St.  Clement’s,  Ipswich,  1  Oct. 
John  Smith,  his  brother,  being  heir  at  law.  Esq.  1592.  “  Raufe  Goodwin ,  son  of  Raufe  <£*  Cecilie.” 


Page  237. 


Page  269. 


Page  288. 


Page  303. 


Page  811. 


Goodwin  of  Torrington.  John  Ingold  (not  Inglose)  of  Kesgrave,  in  Suffolk,  by  his  will,  Arch.  Suffolc, 
8  July  1535,  devised  lands  in  Little  Bealings,  etc.,  to  Henry  Goodwiu  and  his  children.  By  a  printer’s 
error  the  date  is  twice  given  as  1635. 

Hammond  of  Ufford.  Thomas  Hammond,  who  emigrated  to  Norway,  was  known  there  as  “Thomas 
Englishman.”  He  came  to  Troudhjem  in  the  reign  of  Charles  II,  and  has  left  many  descendants.  His 
grandson,  Thomas  Angell,  who  was  very  wealthy,  fouuded  the  famous  charity  called  by  his  name, 
providing  especially  for  such  of  his  kindred  as  might  fall  into  poverty  in  future  years. 

Gordon  of  Letton.  Abigail  Kuyvett,  who  married  Martin  Sedley,  was  daughter  of  John  Knyvett  and 
sister  of  Sir  Thomas.  Sir  Richard  Saltonstall  should  be  styled  “of  Yorkshire.”  Sir  Richard  Saltonstall 
of  Essex  was  quite  another  man,  but  the  two  are  frequently  confounded.  A  number  of  letters  from 
Brampton  Gurdon  to  John  Wintlirop,  Governor  of  Massachusetts,  are  to  be  found  in  the  Fourth  Series 
of  the  Massachusetts  Historical  Society’s  Collections.  John  Gurdon  was  M.P.  for  Ipswich,  1640. 

Burrouqh  of  Wickhambrook.  In  the  light  of  nineteenth  century  criticism,  Cotton  Mather’s  action  at 
the  trial  and  execution  of  George  Burrough  is  only  to  be  excused  on  the  ground  of  intense  and 
inherited  prejudice.  But  to  speak  of  him,  generally,  as  a  “fanatical  divine”  is  to  do  him  less  than 
justice.  To  no  writer  are  Anglo-American  genealogists  more  indebted  for  the  links  which  bind  the  New 
England  emigrants  to  their  kinsmen  of  the  old  world  than  to  the  gossiping,  learned  and  enthusiastic 
author  of  Magnalia  Christi  Americana. 

For  “.  .  .  entered  Harvard  College  1870,”  in  the  accouut  of  George  Burrough  of  New  England,  substitute 
“ A.B.  Harvard  College  1670.”  Although  described  as  “clerk”  in  his  indictment,  there  is  no  record  of 
his  ordination.  He  was,  doubtless,  a  Nonconformist  minister. 


392 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Page  328. 
Page  329. 
Page  335. 


Page  348. 

Page  354. 
Page  355. 

Page  358. 

Ibid. 


Page  384. 
Page  387. 


Ibid. 


Appleton  of  Waldingfikld.  The  inscriptions  are  in  Little  Waldingfield  church,  not  at  Great  Waldingfield, 
as  stated  by  Weever. 

Ibid.  John  Appleton  was  second ,  not  third,  in  descent  from  John  Appleton  of  Waldingfield  Parva,  who 
died  14  H.  4. 

It  is  but  right  to  say  that  the  earlier  descents  of  Appleton,  as  given  in  Harl.  MSS.  1198,  1560,  etc.,  have 
never  before  been  criticised  ;  nor,  indeed,  with  the  exception  of  details  pointed  out  in  the  footnote, 
have  they  ever  been  disproved.  The  question,  here  perhaps  unnecessarily  raised,  as  to  the  exact 
paternity  of  William  Appleton,  the  husband  of  Rose  Sexton,  would  never  have  occurred  had  the  usual 
Inquisitions,  Fines,  etc.,  connected  with  the  inheritance  of  feudal  estates,  been  extant  in  his  case. 

Dkury  of  Sussex.  Alice,  widow  of  John  Drury,  LL.D.,  married  Francis  Nevill,  Esq.,  2  Oct.  1616,  and 
made  her  will  14  Oct.  1618.  Chat  1  B.  A.  D.D.  44,  49,  Drury  c.  Jordan.  Her  grandson,  Francis 
Drury,  was  of  Watergate  in  1664,  and  his  wife  was  daughter  of  John  Weston,  Esq.,  of  Speldhurst,  co- 
Kent.  Chas  I.  B.  X  A.  D.D.  13,  45  Drury  c.  Horton. 

Drury  of  Hawstkad.  Henry  Drury  of  Ickworth  was  Sheriff  of  Norfolk  and  Suffolk  1423-30,  and  M.P 
for  Suffolk  1433  and  1435. 

Drury  of  Besthorpe.  Catherine,  eldest  daughter  of  William  Drury  the  first  of  Besthorpe,  is  called 
Catherine,  not  Mary,  in  her  grandfather’s  will.  Catherine,  wife  of  Nicholas  Drury  of  Intwood  1691, 
was  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Jenney,  not  Sir  John.  Jermyn  and  Norris  quoted  by  Davy  in  his  MSS. 
Drury  of  Hedgerley.  William  Drury,  the  heir  of  Hedgerley,  was  still  engaged  with  his  case  against 
Darell  in  December  1645,  being  then  blind  and  weak,  with  only  an  annuity  of  £40  a  year.  Calendar 
of  House  of  Lords  MSS.  in  the  sixth  Report  of  the  Historical  MSS.  Commission.  Frances,  his  sister, 
married,  1633,  Henry  Allen,  Esq.,  of  the  Inner  Temple.  License  in  Faculty  Office.  Harl.  Soc.  Vol.  24. 
Rowland  Hynde  was  of  Hedsor  (not  Hedsworth),  co.  Bucks.  He  died  in  1608,  and  Elizabeth,  his  wife, 
11  Jany.  1606.  There  is  a  brass  to  their  memory  in  Hedsor  church.  There  is  also  a  brass  in  Penn 

church  to  Dame  Susan  Drury,  who  died  3  Feb.  1640,  and  her  daughter  Sarah,  wife  of  John  Penn. 
Lipscomb’s  Buckinghamshire.  Anne,  sister  of  Sir  Henry  Drury,  married,  9  July  1605,  Austin  Alexander. 
Hedgerley  Parish  Register. 

Arnold  of  Lowestoft.  Will  of  Aldous  Charles  Arnold,  fifth  line,  for  “Wringfield”  read  Wingfield. 

Ibid.  There  is  a  fine  monument  in  St.  Margaret’s  church,  Lowestoft,  over  the  north  door,  to  the  memory 
of  Aldous  Arnold  and  his  three  wives,  surmounted  by  the  aims,  Sable,  a  chevron  Argent,  between 
three  dolphins  embowed  of  the  same.  Crest,  a  dolphin  embowed  Argent. 

There  is  a  monument  in  St.  Mary’s  Church,  Bungay,  “  To  the  memory  of  Peregrey  Browne,  gent.,  who 
died  Jan.  2nd  1767,  aged  77  years;  and  of  Elizabeth  his  wife  who  died  June  4th  1773,  aged  77  years.” 
The  Arms  are  Argent,  on  a  beud  Azure  (or  Sable  ?)  three  eagles  displayed  Or. 


JFurtl^r  A&futtons  mb  ffiormttmts 


Page  30. 
Page  87. 

Page  99. 
Page  166. 

Page  355. 


Page  372. 

Page  387. 
Page  388. 


-Winthrop  of  London.  For  “  Everleigh,"  read  Eyeleigh.” 

Fonks  of  Nusteed.  Samuel  Fones  the  younger  is  incidentally  named  in  the  will  of  his  father,  Samuel 

Fones,  in  1693,  not  in  that  of  his  brother,  Thomas  Fones.  It  is  probable  that  he  was  then  dead. 

Downing  of  Ipswich.  James  Downing  went  to  New  England  in  1630,  not  1640,  as  stated  in  the  text. 

Winthrop  of  Groton.  The  first  wife  of  Adam  Winthrop  died  in  1533,  not  1538,  as  here  erroneously 
printed. 

Drury  of  Besthorpe.  There  is,  apparently,  some  confusion  in  the  early  descents  of  this  family  as  given 

in  the  MSS.  It  is  stated  in  the  Inquisition  post  mortem  of  Charles  Drury,  taken  35th  Henry  VIII, 

that  long  before  his  death  one  Robert  Drury  Esqr  was  seized  of  a  Manor  in  Besthorpe,  which  he 

enfeoffed  to  one  Robert  Drury  of  Besthorpe  and  Ela  his  wife,  with  remainder  to  Charles  Drury  their 
son  and  heir.  Robert  Drury  of  Besthorpe  had  died,  but  Ela  was  still  living.  Charles  Drury  their 
son  deceased  23d  Feb.  32d  Henry  VIII,  William  Drury  his  son  and  heir  being  of  the  age  of  four 
years  and  upwards. 

Drury  of  Leziate.  On  the  19th  of  March,  1692,  the  Administration  of  Elizabeth  Drury,  late  of  St.  Giles’, 
Cripplegate,  widow,  was  granted  to  John  Jurin,  the  guardian  of  Isaac  Drury,  a  minor,  her  natural  and 
lawful  son.  Admans.  P.C.C. 

Arnold  of  Lowestoft. — Frances  Arnold  was  daughter  and  heir  of  Peregrey  Browne.  For  Birchinshaw  (see 
about  the  middle  of  the  pedigree)  read  Byrchinshaw. 

Edward  Arnold  was  Bailiff  of  Dunwicli  in  1314  and  1325.  In  1334  (7  Edw.  Ill)  the  feefarm  rent  of 
sixteen  pence  was  due  to  the  King  “  de  heredibus  Edmundi  Arnold  pro  Christepenysaker.”  Sir  Henry 
Harnold,  “Knight  and  Freer,”  was  buried  in  the  Black  Friar’s  church  there.  ( Weever.  p.  720).  In  1496 
Ameys  Arnold  “  gaff  nets  to  the  Cherche,  viii3  vid.”  See  Gardner’s  History  of  Dunwich. 


INDEX 


The  Capitals  refer  to  the  Sectional  Divisions  of  this  Volume. 


PAGE. 

PAGE. 

Acton,  Dorothy,  1556,  Will 

40 

Body-Mildmay  Pedigree,  Harleian  MS.  1541 

48 

Addington, 

William,  1777,  Will 

381 

Boldkro 

of  Fornham 

...  176-188 

Alabaster 

of  Hadleioh 

...  49-55 

^ , 

Arms  of 

176 

it 

Burrough  and,  Indenture 

52 

>> 

of  Aspenden,  co.  Herts,  Pedigree 

188 

a 

Inscriptions,  Hadleigh  ... 

54 

11 

Edmund,  1601,  Will 

178 

a 

Jane,  1708,  Will 

52 

11 

Edmund,  D.D.  1679,  Will.. 

180 

it 

John,  1637,  Will  .,. 

49 

11 

George,  1609,  Inscription  ... 

182 

it 

John,  1638,  Inquisition  .. 

50 

11 

George,  1665,  Inscription  ... 

182 

it 

John,  1655,  Will 

52 

11 

Henry,  1660,  W'ill 

179 

11 

Pedigree  and  Arms 

55 

11 

Inscriptions 

..182,  183 

ii 

Thomas,  1591,  Will 

49 

11 

John,  1582,  Will 

177 

it 

Thomas,  circa  1620  (Note) 

389 

11 

John,  1749,  Will 

181 

11 

William,  D.D.,  1637,  Will 

52 

11 

Pedigrees  ... 

...184-188 

Aldous  of  Huntingfield,  Pedigree 

388 

11 

Pedigrees,  Harleian  MS.,  1820 

183 

Alevn,  Thomas,  1633,  Will 

162 

11 

v.  Webb,  1620,  Chancery  Bill 

178 

Angell,  Thomas,  of  Trondhjem 

269 

11 

of  Yorkshire,  Pedigree 

187 

Appleton  of  YValdingfield 

...  322-336 

Bourne, 

Sir  John,  1563,  Will 

134 

Arms  of 

322 

Boxford 

School,  Incorporation  of,  1592 

88 

ii 

Edward,  1580,  Will 

324 

Bramptc 

n,  W'illiam.  1561,  Will 

277 

it 

Gildersleeve  and,  1635,  Fine 

327 

11 

William,  1567,  Will 

277 

11 

Inscriptions,  Waldingfield 

328,  392 

11 

of  Letton,  Pedigree,  Harleian  MS. 

1563  285 

11 

Inscriptions,  Wiggenhall 

336 

Brandon 

W'illiam,  1539,  W'ill 

203 

11 

John,  1622,  Will 

327 

Bright, 

Thomas,  1618,  Will 

316 

11 

Mary,  1612,  Will 

326 

Bryan,  Benjamin,  1708,  Will 

53 

11 

of  New  England,  Pedigrees 

...330-332 

„  Pedigree,  Suffolk  Visitation,  1664 

53 

11 

Pedigrees 

...  329-332 

Browne 

of  Edwardstone 

...  77-82 

11 

Pedigree,  Harleian  MS.,  1196 

...335,392 

11 

and  Duke  of  Colchester,  Pedigree 

82 

11 

Sir  Isaac,  1608,  Will 

326 

11 

Henry,  1593,  Will 

77 

11 

Samuel,  1635,  Fines 

327 

11 

John,  1562,  Will 

77 

11 

Thomas,  1504,  Will 

323 

11 

Peregrine,  Inscription  to,  1767 

392 

11 

Thomas,  1603,  W'ill 

325 

11 

Seekford  c.,  1588,  Exchequer  Bill 

81 

11 

William,  1512,  Will 

323 

Burrell, 

Thomas,  1559,  Will 

298 

11 

William,  1538,  Will 

324 

Burrough  of  W'ickhambrook 

...  294-314 

Ap  Robert, 

Walter,  1558,  Will 

132 

»> 

Amy,  1700,  Will 

304 

Arnold  of 

Lowestoft 

...377-388 

ii 

Arms,  Grant  of,  1586 

294 

Aldous,  1791,  Will 

383 

11 

Arms,  Quarterings,  etc.  ... 

295,  311,  312 

11 

Aldous,  1793,  Monument  and  Arms 

392 

11 

Charles,  1689,  W'ill 

301 

11 

Aldous,  Charles,  1799,  W'ill 

...384,  392 

11 

Elizabeth,  1741,  Will 

305 

11 

Arms,  Arnold  of  Battisford 

388 

11 

George,  LL.B.,  1579 — 1653 

300 

11 

Dr.,  of  Rugby,  Pedigree,  etc. 

385 

11 

George,  of  New  England 

...302,  391 

11 

Eleanor,  1517,  W'ill 

377 

11 

Inscriptions 

...308,  309 

11 

Elizabeth,  1788,  Will 

382 

11 

John,  1724,  W'ill 

305 

11 

John,  1520,  Will 

377 

11 

Mary,  1624,  Will 

298 

11 

John  (als.  Thornton),  1585,  Will 

379 

11 

Nathaniel,  1681,  Will 

301 

11 

Matthew,  1738,  Will 

380 

i  J 

Parish  Register  Entries  ... 

...309,  310 

11 

Pedigrees 

...  385-387 

>} 

Pedigree 

..  311,312 

11 

Sampson,  1765,  Administration 

381 

11 

Pedigree,  Harleian  MS.,  1560 

310 

1 1 

Thomas,  1737,  Will 

380 

11 

Royal  Descents 

...313,314 

11 

Thomas,  1750,  Will 

381 

11 

v.  Styles,  1625,  Chancery  Bill 

298 

Thomas,  1595,  Will 

296 

11 

Thomas,  1600,  Marriage  Licence 

297 

Barrett,  Elizabeth,  1591,  Will 

279 

11 

Thomas,  1665,  Will 

300 

Beaumont, 

John,  1743,  Inscription  ... 

61 

11 

Thomas,  1772,  Will 

307 

Blois,  Amy 

,  1732,  W'ill 

305 

11 

W'illiam,  1690,  Marriage  Licence 

302 

Bode,  Crymble  and  Forth 

.  121-131 

Butley 

Abbey,  Ford’s  MSS.,  Bodleian  Library 

116 

„  v.  Forth,  1635,  Chancery  Bill... 

129 

Byrde  als.  Bryde,  Maryon 

13,  166,  223 

„  Thomas,  1581  ... 

123 

11 

„  „  Richard,  1568,  Will 

221 

3  D: 


396 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


page. 

PAGE. 

Candler  als.  Gillett,  Margaret,  1556,  Will 

238 

Drury  of  Aylsham,  Pedigree 

370 

Poley  and  Goodwin  Pedigree 

240 

!» 

of  Besthorpe,  Pedigree 

...355,  392 

Celey, 

George,  1489,  Will 

242 

•» 

of  Blackheath,  Pedigree 

366 

William,  etc.... 

63,  116,  233 

11 

of  Cambridge,  Pedigree,  Visitation  1684 

363 

Clopton  of  Melford 

...  136-145 

11 

of  Claydon,  Pedigree 

* 

367 

»f 

Arms  of 

136 

,  11 

of  Docking,  Pedigree 

349 

v.  Clopton,  1417,  De  Banco 

138 

t 

11 

of  Earith,  Pedigrees 

...363,365 

»» 

of  Liston,  Pedigree,  Additional 

MS. 

5,523  390 

•1 

of  Fincham,  Pedigree 

364 

11 

Pedigrees 

..  142-145 

11 

of  Great  Dunham,  Pedigree  ... 

368 

>» 

Poley,  M.D.,  1750,  Will  ... 

141 

11 

of  Hawstead,  Pedigree 

..354,  392 

11 

St.  Lys,  c.,  1298,  Coram  Rege 

137 

11 

of  Hedgerley,  Pedigree 

...358,  392 

11 

Sir  Walter,  1413,  Will 

137 

11 

of  Ireland,  Pedigree,  Additional  MS., 

4,820 

359 

>} 

Thomasine,  Marriage  Settlement, 

1615 

22 

1' 

of  Leziate,  Pedigree 

372 

>> 

William,  1612,  Will 

140 

1 * 

of  Overstone,  Pedigree 

365 

» 

William,  1614,  Additional  MS.  5,523 

390 

11 

of  Rougham,  Pedigree 

347 

William,  1640,  Will 

140 

•1 

of  Sussex,  Pedigree,  Harleian  MS.,  1562 

...348,  392 

Coggeshall,  Elizabeth,  1557,  Will 

176 

11 

of  Swaffham  Prior,  Pedigree  ... 

364 

Cooke, 

Duke,  Browne,  Pedigree,  etc. 

82 

of  Tendring,  Pedigree,  Harleian  MS. 

6,065 

349 

Thomas,  of  Pebnmrsh,  1621,  Will 

160 

of  Thurston,  Additional  MS.  5,523 

346 

Thomas,  of  Pebmarsh,  1679,  Will 

80 

11 

of  Riddlesworth,  Pedigree 

357 

Corrigenda  et  Addenda 

389 

1‘ 

of  Rollesby,  Pedigree 

356 

Cradock,  Dorothy,  1666,  Will 

328 

11 

Arms  of  ..  345,  350,  357, 

358,  359,  360,  372 

Crane 

c.  Heveningham,  Star  Chamber 

290 

11 

Dame  Martha,  1768,  Will 

362 

Cressenor’s  Manor,  1540,  Fine 

258 

11 

George  (Leziate),  1716,  Will  ... 

371 

Crymble,  Forth  and  Bode 

..  121-131 

11 

Jane,  Sussex,  1629,  Will 

348 

11 

George,  1570,  Will 

122 

John,  Ipswich,  1595,  Will 

369 

>1 

Pedigree  (with  Bode  and  Forth) 

131 

11 

Richard,  Ixning,  1581,  Will  ... 

362 

11 

Richard,  1541,  Will 

121 

11 

Robert,  Ireland,  1673,  Funeral  Certificate 

359 

CULLUM  OF  HAWSTEAD 

...  169-175 

11 

Roger,  Rollesby,  1599,  Will  .. 

356 

11 

Arms  of 

174 

11 

Sir  Dru,  Hedgerley,  1613,  Will 

351 

11 

Charles,  1869,  Will 

391 

11 

Sir  Robert,  Hawstead,  1615,  Will 

852 

11 

Pedigree 

...  169-174 

11 

Stephen,  Aylsham,  1599,  Will 

369 

» 

of  Thorndon,  Pedigree 

175 

11 

Susanna,  Hawstead,  1606,  Will 

350 

•1 

Thomas,  Fincham,  1558,  Will... 

360 

11 

William,  Els  worth,  1567,  Will 

361 

•1 

William,  Hedgerlv,  1645  (Note) 

392 

11 

Wills,  printed,  List  of 

350 

Duke, 

Anne,  1649,  Inscription 

82 

Deane, 

Anne,  1624,  Will 

150 

11 

of  Colchester,  Browne,  etc.,  Pedigree 

82 

J 1 

of  Essex,  Pedigree  and  Arms 

154 

11 

John,  M.D.,  1629,  Will 

79 

11 

Rachel 1,  1623,  Will 

151 

Sir  John,  1625,  Will 

151 

Dell,  Elizabeth,  1657,  Will 

114 

Devehaugh,  Robert,  1611,  Will 

59 

Ecton 

see  Acton,  Indenture,  1549  ... 

40 

Doggett  of  Groton... 

...337-344 

Egerton,  Sarah,  1624,  Will 

150 

)] 

Alston  c.,  1644,  Chancery  Bill 

340 

Elmy 

OF  Rt’MBURGH 

...  195-197 

Arms  of 

337 

>1 

Arms  of 

196 

» 

Benjamin,  1703,  Will 

342 

11 

Mary,  1578,  Will 

195 

}) 

Elizabeth,  1665,  Will 

341 

11 

of  Palgrave,  Pedigree,  Candler  MSS. 

197 

11 

Elizabeth,  1765,  Will 

343 

»» 

Pedigrees 

...196,  197 

11 

John,  1564.  Will 

337 

11 

John,  1619,  Will 

339 

1) 

John,  1652,  Will 

341 

J> 

Pedigree 

344 

Father,  Margaret,  1633,  Will 

268 

)> 

Pedigree,  Visitation  of  London, 

1665 

343 

Felbrigg,  Sir  Simon,  1413,  Inscription  to 

152 

?> 

Thomas,  1629,  Sale  of  Lands 

339 

Firmage,  William,  1621,  Will 

292 

11 

William,  1610,  Brass 

343 

Fonks 

of  Nusteed 

83-87,  389 

M 

William,  1610,  Will 

340 

11 

Catherine,  1680,  Administration 

85 

11 

William,  1675,  Will 

342 

11 

of  Cornwall,  Pedigree 

86 

Downing  of  Ipswich... 

...  96-99 

11 

Mary,  1685,  Administration  .. 

85 

J) 

Arms  of 

96 

11 

Pedigree 

...  87,  390 

» 

of  Gamlingay,  Pedigree 

99 

11 

Samuel,  1693,  Will 

85 

11 

George,  1561,  Will 

97 

*» 

Thomas,  1629,  Will  and  Inquisition 

83 

J> 

George,  1611,  Will 

97 

11 

Thomas,  M.D.,  1678,  Will 

84 

)» 

Nathaniel,  1616,  Will 

...  '  97 

Forth 

of  Hadleigh 

...  108-120 

>> 

Sir  George,  1683,  Will 

98 

Forth 

of  London 

...  315-321 

» 

Sir  George,  1717,  Will 

98 

Forth 

,  Crymble,  Bode 

...  121-131 

»> 

Susan,  c.  1634,  Marriages  ... 

390 

>> 

Arms,  Grant  of,  1539 

108 

Drury 

OF  Aylsham  ... 

..  369-370 

»» 

Arms  and  Qnarterings 

...117, 132 

Drury 

OF  Claydon  ... 

..  360-368 

11 

c.  Bacon,  1601,  Chancery  Bill 

315 

Drury 

of  Hawstead 

...  350  358 

11 

Bode  c,  1635,  Chancery  Bill 

129 

Drury 

of  Leziate  ... 

...371-372 

c.  Bode,  1634-5,  Chancery  Bills 

...126,127 

Drury 

of  Rough  am... 

...  344-349 

Browne  c.,  1697,  Chancery  Bills 

317 

INDEX. 


397 


PAGE. 

PAGE. 

Forth,  Butley  Abbey  described,  Ford  MSS. 

116 

Goodwin,  of  Wherstead,  Pedigree 

212 

„  Charles,  of  Butley 

...120.  390 

M 

Arms,  Grants  of,  etc.  ...  201,  212,  213, 

232,  237 

.,  Crymble  and  Bode  Pedigree... 

121 

11 

Arms  (Bockiug),  Grant  of,  etc. 

216,  391 

„  Edward,  1591,  Will 

124 

Arms  (Stonham  Parva) 

234 

„  Edward,  1612,  Will 

124 

11 

Christopher,  1607,  Will 

222 

„  c.  Forth,  1680,  Chancery  Bill 

115 

■  t 

Edmund,  1645,  Will 

225 

,,  Frauces,  1720.  Will 

116 

11 

Edward  (Ipswich),  1609,  Will 

205 

„  Henry,  1746,  Will 

320 

!) 

Elizabeth  (Ipswich),  1572,  Will 

222 

John,  1613,  Will 

113 

:> 

Elizabeth,  1629,  Will 

227 

„  and  Kene  Marriage 

119,  315,  390 

:) 

and  Fitch,  1569,  Indenture 

218 

.,  Margaret,  1696,  Will 

317 

)> 

George,  1609,  Inquisition  ... 

215 

Margaret,  1718,  Will 

319 

91 

Gooding,  so  spelled  ...  201,  205, 

213,  216 

„  Mary,  1717,  Will 

319 

11 

Havers,  c.  1633,  Chancery  Bill 

206 

,,  Pedigree,  Forth  of  Butley  ... 

120 

’? 

Heirlooms,  etc.  (Martlesham) 

215 

„  Pedigree,  Candler  MSS. 

118 

)> 

Henry  (Kesgrave),  1552,  Will 

236 

,,  Pedigree,  Forth  of  Essex  and  Berks 

131 

11 

James  (Kendham),  1650,  Will 

231 

„  Pedigree,  Forth  of  Hadleigh 

119 

11 

James  (Rendham),  1664,  Will 

231 

,,  Pedigree,  Forth  of  Loudon  ... 

821 

11 

Jasper,  1656,  Will 

227 

„  Pedigree,  Sulfolk  Visitation,  1612 

117 

11 

John  (East  Bergholt),  1606,  Inquisition  .. 

224 

„  Philip,  1642,  Will 

113 

11 

John  (London),  1636,  Will 

207 

,,  Robert,  1540,  Will 

109 

11 

Margaret  (Martlesham),  1596,  Will 

204 

!,  Robert,  1600,  Will 

111 

11 

Margaret  (Yoxford),  1612,  Will 

240 

„  Sir  William,  1612,  Will 

113 

11 

Matthew  (Blaxhall).  1519,  Will 

202 

.,  Tillie,  c.  1698,  Chancery  Bill 

320 

11 

Pedigree,  Candler  MSS.  ... 

210 

.,  William,  1504,  Will 

109 

11 

Pedigrees,  Suffolk  Visitation,  1612 

209 

,,  William,  1553,  Will 

no 

It 

Ralph  (Ipswich),  1562,  Will 

220 

„  William,  1559,  Inquisition  ... 

110 

11 

Ralph,  1649,  etc.,  Pedigree 

391 

„  William,  1599,  Will 

111 

11 

Robert  (Freston),  1601,  Will 

205 

„  William,  1599,  Inscription  ... 

116 

11 

Stephen,  1647,  Will 

208 

,,  William,  1642,  Will 

114 

•j 

Thomas  (Freston),  1593,  Will 

203 

,.  William,  LLD.,  1671,  Will  ... 

115 

?• 

Thomas  (Stonham),  1635,  Will 

234 

,,  William,  1697,  Chancery  Bill 

317 

•1 

William  (Blaxhall),  1513,  Will 

202 

Fox,  Margaret,  1660,  Will 

269 

1> 

William  (Booking),  1554,  Inquisition 

216 

Freke,  Arms  and  Quarterings 

246 

Gostlin  of  Groton  ... 

88-95 

„  Dame  Elizabeth,  1659,  Will  ... 

246 

11 

Benjamin,  1615 — 1675  .  ... 

92 

John,  1645,  Will 

94 

. 

Lauds  in  Groton,  1665,  Fine 

94 

11 

Pedigree 

95 

11 

Philip,  1626,  Will 

90 

Garnets  of  Kenton  . 

...  189-194 

1} 

Philip,  1629,  Will 

90 

„  Arms  and  Quarterings 

189 

11 

Thomas,  1612 — 1649 

91 

„  Nicholas,  1625,  Will 

194 

Grigg 

of  Bealings  Parva 

198-200 

„  Pedigrees  ... 

...  190-193 

11 

Fines  of  Suffolk  Lands 

199 

Glanfield,  William,  1637,  Will 

50 

11 

Michael,  1625,  Will  and  Inquisition 

198 

Golding,  Susan,  1631,  Will 

125 

11 

Pedigree  and  Arms 

200-391 

Gooding,  see  Goodwin 

Griggs, 

Hammond,  Ray,  Pedigree 

265 

Goodwin  of  Blaxhall 

..  201-215 

Groome,  Henry,  Ufford,  1634,  Inscription 

269 

Goodwin  of  Booking 

..  216-219 

Groton 

Manor,  Alienation  of,  1594  ... 

17 

Goodwin  of  Bole’s  Hall 

...  220-223 

11 

„  Grant  of,  1544 

15 

Goodwin  of  East  Bkrgholt 

...  224-226 

11 

,,  Sale  of,  1631 

33 

Goodwin  of  Framlingham 

...  227-228 

11 

„  Settlement  of,  1557  ... 

16 

Goodwin  of  Hartford,  Connecticut 

...  229-230 

Gurdon  of  Asstngton 

273-288 

Goodwin  of  Marlesford 

...231-233 

11 

Arms  and  Quarterings 

273 

Goodwin  of  Stonhham  Parva 

...234-235 

11 

Brampton,  1647,  Will 

283 

Goodwin  of  Torrington 

...236-237 

•1 

John,  1487,  Will 

274 

Goodwin  of  Yoxfohd 

...  238-240 

5) 

John,  1504,  Will 

276 

„  of  Booking,  Pedigree 

219 

11 

John,  1621,  Will 

281 

„  of  Bull’s  Hall,  Pedigree  ... 

.  223,  391 

11 

Pedigree,  Gurdon  of  Assington 

286-287 

„  of  Connecticut,  Pedigree  ... 

230 

11 

Pedigree,  Gurdon  of  Letton 

288-391 

„  of  Debach,  1664,  Pedigree... 

232 

>• 

Robert,  1578,  Will 

278 

„  of  East  Bergholt,  Pedigree 

226 

.,  of  Framlingham,  Pedigree... 

228 

„  of  Freston,  Pedigree 

213 

„  of  Grundisburgh,  Pedigree 

215 

„  of  Hollesly,  1664,  Pedigree 

214 

Hammond  of  Burt 

251-254 

,,  of  Ipswich,  Pedigree 

211 

Hammond  of  Ellingham 

255-257 

,.  of  Kesgrave,  Pedigree 

237 

Hammond  of  Hawkedon 

258-262 

,,  of  Loudon,  1634,  Pedigree 

213 

Hammond  of  Hawstead 

263-265 

„  of  Marlesford,  Pedigree 

233 

Hammond  of  Ipswich 

266-267 

„  of  Martlesham,  Pedigree  ... 

214 

Hammond  of  Uffohd 

268-270 

,,  Poley  and  Candler,  Pedigree 

240 

Hammond  of  Wethbrden 

271-272 

„  of  Lend  ham,  1664,  Pedigree 

232 

11 

of  Bury,  Pedigree 

254 

„  of  Stonham  Parva,  Pedigree 

235 

11 

of  Cresseners,  Pedigree 

261 

398 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Hammond  of  Ellingham,  Pedigree  and  Arms 

PAGE. 

257 

„  of  Hawkedon,  Pedigree  and  Arms 

„  of  Hawstead,  Pedigree  and  Arms 

260,  261,  269 

264 

„  of  Ipswich,  Pedigrees 

...266,  267 

„  of  London,  Pedigree  Visitation,  1687 

„  of  Norway,  Pedigree,  etc.... 

269 

...269,  391 

„  Peyton,  Langham,  etc.,  Pedigree 

„  of  Uiford,  Pedigree  and  Arms 

262 

...  269-270 

„  of  Whitton,  Pedigree 

270 

„  Anne  (Hawkedon),  1611,  Will 

258 

,,  Anne  (Hawstead),  1641,  Inquisition 

„  Cressener’s  Manor,  Fine,  1540 

263 

258 

„  Deynes,  etc.,  Pedigrees  ... 

272 

„  Edward,  1626,  Will 

253 

„  Edward  (Ipswich),  1667,  Will 

266 

„  Griggs,  Powell,  etc.,  Pedigree 

265 

„  Hawstead  Lands,  Sale  of,  1756 

263 

„  Henry  (Bury),  1600,  Will 

252 

„  John  (Ubbeston),  1541,  Will 

255 

„  John,  LTi.D.,  1590,  Will  ... 

251 

„  John  (Ellingham),  1632,  Will 

,,  John  (Ellingham),  1657,  Will 

255 

256 

„  Payton  c.  1588,  Chancery  Bill 

262 

„  Philip  (Hawkedon),  1751,  Will 

260 

„  Sir  Francis  Thomas 

264 

.,  Thomas  (Bury),  1599,  Will 

251 

,,  Thomas  (Hawkedon),  1661,  Will 

259 

„  Thomas  (Hawkedon),  1670,  Will 

259 

„  Thomas  of  Norway 

391 

„  Thomas  (Wetherden),  1599,  Will 

271 

„  Thomas  (Wetherden),  1610,  Will 

271 

„  Ursula  (Bungay),  1677,  Will 

256 

Heigham,  Martha,  1591,  Will 

295 

Highmore,  Arms  of  ... 

...295,  311 

„  John,  1757,  Will 

306 

„  Thomas,  1719,  Will 

304 

Hilles  of  Holton  ... 

...  100-102 

„  Joane,  1597,  Will 

101 

„  John,  1579,  Will 

100 

„  William,  1597,  Will 

100 

„  Pedigree 

102 

Hunne,  c.  Burd,  1571,  Chancery  Proceedings 

165 

Ingold,  John,  1535,  Will 

391 

Inman,  John,  1625,  Will 

178 

Jenney  and  Rainborow,  1652,  Fine  ... 

157 

Jettor,  John,  1552,  Will 

378 

„  Margaret,  1571,  Will 

379 

Jones,  Samuel  (Antigua),  1684,  Will 

32 

Kemp,  Dame  Amy,  1745,  Will 
Kene-Harvey-Forth  Marriages 

306 

...314,  321 

Langham  of  Bury  ... 

...375,  376 

Langham  of  Langham 

..373,374 

„  Arms 

..  373,375 

,  of  Bury,  Pedigrees 

...262,  376 

„  George,  1643,  Will 

375 

„  Pedigree,  Harle  an  MS.,  1550 

374 

„  Sir  William.  Fine,  1348  .. 

373 

Lappage-Doggett,  Pedigree 

344 

Lyons  of  Antigua,  Pedigree 

28 

Machell,  John,  1574,  Will 

Marshall,  Mary,  1715,  Will 

217 

318 

Mather,  Cotton 

...303,  391 

Met  h  wold,  John,  1547,  Will 

PAGE. 

291 

,,  Pedigree  and  Arms 

...292,  293 

.,  William,  Abduction  of 

290 

„  William,  1538,  Will 

290 

Mildmay  of  Cretingham 

...  42-48 

,,  Dame  Amy,  1669,  Will 

46 

,,  John,  1580,  Will 

42 

„  Pedigrees 

...  47-48 

,,  Robert,  1646,  Will 

,.  Sir  Henry.  1637,  Will 

167 

45 

Sir  Thomas,  1612,  Will  ... 

44 

„  Thomas,  1601,  Will 

43 

„  Thomas,  1613,  Will 

44 

,,  IVilliatn,  1570,  Will 

42 

Mildon,  William,  1666,  Will 

32 

Miluer-Gibsou,  Pedigree  and  Arms  .. 

175 

Moore,  Thomas,  1666,  Will 

More,  William,  1566,  Will 

336 

338 

Munning  of  Hedging 

...  103-107 

„  Arms,  etc. 

103 

Elizabeth,  1624,  Will 

105 

„  Heury,  1521,  Will 

104 

,,  Henry,  1657,  Will 

105 

„  Thomas,  1556,  Will 

105 

„  Pedigrees,  Additional  MS.,  5,523,  etc. 

...106,107 

Muskett  Arms  at  Butley  Abbey 

117 

,,  Sharpe  and  Winthrop  Pedigree 

41 

„  Taylor  and  Cocke  Pedigrees 

“My  Lord  of  Pembroke’s  Pedigree,”  1597 

...247,  248 

135 

Norrington,  Vincent,  1597,  Will,  etc. 

...165,  391 

Nuttall,  Edmund,  1609,  Will 

43 

Parsons,  Elizabeth,  1680,  Will 

81 

Paul,  Mary,  1737,  Will 

168 

Payton  contra  Hammond,  1588 

262 

„  Hamond  and  Langham  Pedigree 

262 

Pembroke,  Lord,  1597,  Pedigree  of  .. 

Poley- Candler,  Goodwin  Pedigrees 

135 

...239,240 

„  Henry,  1586,  Will 
„  Robert,  1558,  Will 

239 

238 

Ponder  of  Braintree 

...  34-39 

„  John,  1520,  Will 

35 

John,  1561,  Will 

36 

„  John,  LL.D.,  1625,  Will  ... 

„  c.  Mann,  1604,  Chancery  Proceedings 

38 

37 

„  Pedigree  (with  Whiting,  etc.) 

39 

„  Roger,  1507,  Will 

34 

,.  Roger,  clerk,  1563,  Will 

37 

„  St.  Margaret  (Ipswich),  Register 

38 

„  Simon,  1557,  Will 

36 

Powell  of  Whitchurch 

...  132-135 

„  Arms  and  Quarterings 

9,  116,  132 

,,  Elizabeth,  1541,  Notes 

...132,390 

.,  Griggs,  Hammond,  etc.,  Pedigree 

265 

,,  Pedigrees,  Harleian  MS.,  6,068,  etc. 

133,  134,  135 

„  Thomas,  1523,  Bond 

132 

Rainborough.  See  also  Rainsborough 

155-159 

„  Jenney  and,  1652,  Fine 

157 

,,  Robert,  1533,  Will 

155 

„  of  Suffolk,  Pedigree 

153 

,,  Thomas,  1544,  Will 

156 

"William,  M.P.,  1638,  Will,  etc. 

155, 156 

„  c.  Winthrop,  1680,  Chancery  Proceedings 

t  158 

Rainsborough 

155-159 

,,  of  East  Greenwich,  Pedigree 

159 

Ranye,  Elizabeth,  1640,  Will 

112 

Ray-Orbell- Lilly,  Pedigree 

265 

INDEX. 


399 


Reade  op  Wickford... 

PAGE. 

160-164,  390 

„  Edmund,  1625,  Will 

161 

„  Pedigrees 

...163, 164 

„  William,  1659,  Will  and  Monumental 

Inscrip.  163 

Reedham,  Elizabeth,  Marriage  of 

..223,  391 

Risby  of  Thorpe  Morieux 

...  66-73 

.,  Arms 

.  ...  66-72 

,.  Agnes,  1528,  Will 

67 

.,  Inscriptions,  etc. 

72 

„  John,  1687,  Will 

71 

„  Margaret,  1552,  Will 

69 

,.  Pedigrees  (Harleian  MS.  1,174,  etc.) 

...  66,  73 

. ,  Robert,  1557,  Will 

70 

,,  Thomas,  1500,  Will  .  . 

67 

,.  William,  1551,  Will 

68 

,.  William,  1625,  Will 

71 

Rivers,  Earl,  1486,  Inquisition 

146 

Ryece,  Robert,  1638,  Account  of 

103 

Seckford  c.  Browne,  Exchequer  Bill,  1588 

81 

Sexton  of  Lavenham 

..  289-293 

„  Agnes,  1520,  Will 

289 

,,  Robert,  1517,  Will 

289 

„  Pedigree  and  Arms 

293 

Sharpe  of  Islington 

...  40,41 

.,  Arms 

9 

„  William,  1525,  Will 

40 

„  Pedigree  (with  Mihlmay,  etc.) 

Smith,  of  Kilburn,  Arms 

...  41,  389 

242 

„  „  Pedigree 

...249,  250 

Snelling,  John,  1617,  Will 

78 

Southcott,  Dorothy,  1643,  Will 

114 

Spring,  Alice,  1538,  Will 

68 

Stafford,  Dorothy,  1608,  Will  .  . 

148 

Still  of  Hadleigh... 

...  74-76 

,,  Anne,  1593,  Monumental  Inscription 

76 

,.  Bishop,  1607,  Will 

75 

„  George,  B.D.,  1560,  Will 

165 

„  Pedigree  and  Arms 

76 

Style,  John,  1685,  Will 

301 

Suckling-Drury,  etc.,  Marriages 

..  370,  389 

Tasburgh,  John,  1605,  Will 

195 

Taylor  of  Lidgate 

...241-250 

„  Arms,  Confirmation  of,  1572 

.,  George,  1633,  Will 

242 

245 

„  John,  1600,  Will 

244 

„  Pedigrees  (Harleian  MS.  1,401,  etc.) 

...247,  248 

„  Thomas,  1542,  Will 

243 

Thornton  als.  Arnold,  John,  Will 

379 

Tyndal  of  Maplestead 

..  146-154 

„  Anne,  1620,  Will 

149 

.,  Pedigrees  and  Aims 

...152,  153 

„  Sale  of  Suffolk  Lands,  1524 

147 

.,  Sir  John,  1538,  Will 

148 

„  Sir  John,  1616,  Will 

149 

„  Sir  William,  1498,  Inquisition  Post 

Mortem  147 

Vesey 

of  Hintlesha.u 

PAGE. 

...  56-65 

JJ 

of  Aldham,  Pedigree  and  Arms 

...  57,65 

JJ 

Arms 

...  56,  61 

JJ 

Charles,  1657,  Monumental  Inscription 

61 

JJ 

of  Holton,  etc.,  Pedigree 

63 

JJ 

Joane,  1586,  Will 

58 

JJ 

Laurence,  1554,  Will 

63 

JJ 

Mary,  1712,  Will 

60 

Monumental  Inscriptions 

61 

J» 

Pedigrees 

56,  57,  62-65 

JJ 

Robert,  1559,  Will 

58 

P 

Thomas,  Aldham,  1614,  Will  ... 

65 

JJ 

Thomas,  Aldham,  1680,  Will 

65 

JJ 

Whatfield  Register  Entries 

61 

J 

William,  1575,  Will 

58 

J' 

William,  1644,  Will 

59 

JJ 

William  (Wix),  1650,  Will  ... 

59 

*J 

William,  1670,  Will 

60 

JJ 

William,  1699,  Will 

60 

!  J 

of  Wix,  Pedigrees 

57,  64,  389 

Wace,  John,  1693,  Will 

316 

Weston, 

Roger,  1605,  Will 

78 

Whiting  of  Ipswich,  Pedigree 

39 

Whittingliam,  John,  1629,  Will 

166 

Williams 

of  Pennsylvania,  Pedigree  ... 

.  333-334 

Wiucoll, 

John,  1576,  Will 

70 

Winthrop  of  Groton  1-33,166,167,389 

>1 

Adam,  1562,  Will 

11 

rj 

Adam,  1629,  Brass  of 

22 

JJ 

of  Antigua 

31,  32,  389 

•j 

„  Pedigree 

28 

JJ 

Arms  and  Quarterings 

1,9 

JJ 

„  Confirmation  of,  1592 

2 

JJ 

of  Boston,  Uuited  States,  Pedigree 

...  26,  389 

J) 

of  Cork,  Pedigree 

29 

JJ 

Elizabeth,  1675,  Will 

...  31,  32 

JJ 

Emblazoned  Pedigree,  1610 

9 

JJ 

John  (Ireland),  1613,  Will 

18 

JJ 

John,  1615,  Marriage  Settlement 

22 

JJ 

John,  1620,  Will 

19 

JJ 

John,  jun.,  1627,  Deed  ... 

125 

JJ 

Joshua 

...  25,  167 

JJ 

Latin  Pedigree,  1498-1625 

3-8 

JJ 

of  London,  Pedigree 

...  30,  389 

JJ 

Lands  in  Groton,  temp.  Edward  VI. 

33 

JJ 

Lands  in  Islington,  temp.  Henry  VIII. 

14 

7  J 

of  New  London,  Pedigree 

...  27,  389 

J* 

Pedigrees  (Groton,  etc.)  ... 

24-30,  389 

J« 

„  Suffolk  Visitation,  1612 

10 

JJ 

Samuel  (Antigua),  1645-1673 

31 

JJ 

Stephen,  1658,  Will 

20 

JJ 

Stephen  (Antigua),  1679,  Will 

32 

Woodcock,  descendants  of  Gaineys  ... 

391 

Woodhall 

Mary,  1611.  Will 

297 

Woodward,  Robert,  1640,  Will 

229 

Wybard, 

Richard,  1607,  Will 

253 

400 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


INDEX  NOMINUM. 


Abbes,  222,  223 

Abbott,  259,  331,  337,  338 

Abdy,  191,  386 

Abel,  117 

Acton,  40,  235 

Adam,  134 

Adams,  26,  185,  229,  260,  331 

Addington,  381,  382,  383,  386 

Ady,  317 

Affleck,  145 

Agge,  287 

Agnew,  367 

Ainslow,  301 

Alabaster,  7,  9,  25,  49-55,  63, 
74,  75,  76,  110,  Hi,  119, 
329,  389 

Alcoster,  Lord,  133 
Alderman,  214 
Alderton,  42 
Aldham,  144 
Aldous,  381,  387 
Aldred,  383 
Aldrich,  169 
Aldus,  209,  212 
Alefounder,  226 
Alexander,  392 
Alingeby,  293 
Alleine,  4 

Allen,  199,  248,  253,  299,  321, 
329,  338,  369,  370,  382,  386, 
387,  392 

Alleyn,  145,  162,  163,  164,  277, 
338,  390 

Alleyn,  als  Kerves,  275 
Alliugton,  69,  143,  248,  329, 
352,  354,  393 
Alliston,  197 

Alston,  46,  89,  144,  269,  270, 
340,  347,  364 
Altham,  4 

Ames,  Amys,  77,  78 
Amies,  78 
Andre,  366 
Anderson,  250 

Andrews,  26,  111,  177,  178, 
235,  258,  354 
Aneward.  101 
Angell,  391 
Angelo,  372 
Angouleme,  313 
Anguish,  383,  384 
Annesley,  316 
Anson,  332,  380,  387 
Antingham,  189,  190 
Ap  Adam,  133 
Ap  Bledre,  134 
Ap  Griffith,  135 
Ap  Gwillim,  132 
Ap  Holl,  133 
Ap  Howell,  132 
Ap  Jenkin,  133 


Ap  Jevor,  133,  134 
Ap  Morgan,  132 
Ap  Pldri,  135 
Ap  Rees,  133 
Ap  Robert,  132,  133 
Ap  Yerth,  133 
Apesley,  348 

Appleton,  34,  52,  55,  73,  89, 
140,  164,  279,  283,  286,  293, 
322-336,  392 
Applewright,  169 
Appleyard,  143,  257,  277,  293 
Appowell,  132 
A  r  bias  ter,  110 
Archer,  317,  321 
Ardley,  284,  338 
Armitage,  79 

Arnold,  214,  215,  377-388,  392 
Arran,  E.  of,  313 
Arrowsmith,  80 
Arthur,  Prince,  153 
Arundel,  135,  287,  335 
Ashby,  249 

Ashfield,  119,  195,  296,  338 

Ashley,  157,  319 

Ashmere,  50 

Ash  town,  Lord,  185 

Ashwell,  109 

Aspall,  163,  345,  372 

Aston,  314 

Asty,  264 

At  Greene,  346 

At  Grove,  858 

Atheling,  313 

Atherold,  65,  192,  215 

Athill,  108,  232 

Atholl,  E.  of,  313 

Atkyns,  157 

Atwood,  48 

Auborue,  260 

Audley,  249,  368 

Austen,  143.  269,  270 

Avery,  214, '315 

Awlcock,  238 

Aylett,  36,  127,  129 


Baber,  355 
Babington,  349 
Bacheller,  332 

Bacon,  52,  62,  152,  175,  189, 
190,  192,  193,  220,  225,  247, 
248,  249,  279,  280,  281,  284, 
286,  315,  844,  347,  354,  390 
Badby,  206 
Hadger,  334 
Badwell,  138,  142 
Bagster,  312 
Baist,  168 

Baker,  67,  118,  162,  164,  187, 
200,  318,  321,  331,  332,  353 


Baldrey,  21,  107,  109,  119,  203 
Baldwin,  29,  258 
Bales,  203,  204,  213,  376 
Balgony,  Lord,  314 
Ball,  33,  58,  63 
Ballantine,  26 
Ballard,  161 
Balles,  52,  203,  204 
Balsac,  de,  314 
Bambergh,  118 
Bamborougli,  120 
Banister,  25 
Bankes,  164,  187,  358 
Barber,  178,  183,  184,  210,  211, 
222,  223,  287,  289 
Barbour,  222 
Barfoot,  109,  275,  277 
Baring,  30 

Barker,  46,  100,  106,  115,  119, 
204,  205,  214,  216,  226,  321, 
381,  387,  391 
Barlee,  297,  298 
Barmby,  96 

Barnard,  187,  188,  320,  332 
Barnardiston,  9S,  99,  136,  141, 
143,  145 
Barilis,  114 

Barnes,  32,  267,  347,  354,  372 

Barnham,  249 

Baron,  148 

Barrachis,  114 

Barracliff,  351 

Barrett,  37,  274.  279,  280,  282. 
284,  285,  286i  287,  288,  33L 
346 

Barrow,  143 

Barry,  de,  342,  344 

Bartlett,  331 

Barton,  167,  273,  285 

Bartel  ott,  188 

Barwiek,  292,  293,  327 

Baspole,  354 

Bassingham,  273,  285 

Bateman,  100,  193,  196,  197 

Bates,  262 

Batson,  383 

Batteson,  120 

Bawdry,  119 

Bawdwyn,  217 

Baxter,  235,  302,  311 

Bayard,  249 

Bayley,  329,  335 

Bayliff,  143 

Baynard,  76,  189,  190 

Beale,  251,  280 

Beacon,  365 

Beart,  388 

Beauchamp,  343,  344 
Beaufils,  350 
Beaufort,  313 
Beaufeu,  152 


Beaumarch,  152 
Beaumont,  49.  55,  61,  62,  168, 
181,  264,  365,  385 
Becon,  1 45 
Bedford,  319 

Bedingfield,  43,  57,  64,  171, 
190,  192.  193,  288,  292 
Bedou,  202 
Belhouse,  136,  274 
Bell,  186,  371 
Bellamy,  99,  146,  191,  194 
Belt,  264 
Bems,  334 
Bemis,  334 
Bence,  157 

Bendisli,  138,  139,  142 
Beniclere,  241,  242,  246,  247, 
248 

Bennett,  28,  80,  163,  333,  334 
Bennfes,  157 
Bensly,  300 
Benson,  264 
Bentley,  380,  385 
Benton,  138 
Benwell,  64 
Berdwell,  139,  142 
Berkeley,  171,  354,  357,  358 
Berkshire,  E.  of,  354 
Bernard,  47,  144,  320 
Berners,  191 
Beruey,  153,  190,  390 
Berry,  249,  330 
Bertram,  153 
Beseylde,  378 
Beswick,  363,  365 
Betts,  41,  66,  70,  73,  131,  170, 
183,  184,  187,  226,  271,  272 
Bigod,  152,  153,  190,  221 
Biggs,  222 
Billing,  44 
Billingsley,  352 
Bindon,  Viscount,  135 
Bird,  51,  192,  279,  297,  298, 
329,  335,  340,  389 
Biscoe,  30 

Bishop,  190,  306,  378,  379 
Bisson,  172 
Bitson,  290 
Bixby,  331 
Blackett,  358 
Blacksell,  175 
Blades,  390 
Bladwell,  344,  355 
Blagrave,  172,  174 
Blake,  223,  238 
Blanch,  308 
Blanchard,  190 
Blastock,  167 

Blennerliasset,  152,  153,  355, 
356 

Blewett,  49,  55 


INDEX  NOMINUM 


401 


Bligh,  30 
Blisse,  100 

Blois,  137,  305,  311,  328,  344 
Bloke,  238 

Blomfield,  95,  213,  228,  233, 
266,  267,  284,  304 
Blos8e,  213,  215 
Blount,  217,  219,  348 
Blower,  145 
Blowers,  114,  115,  321 
Bloys,  156 
Bloys,  E  of,  133 
Bluud,  152 
Blunt,  218 
Blyth,  150,  153 
Blythman,  154 
Boardman,  332 

Bode,  122,  123,  124,  126,  127, 
128,  129,  131 
Body,  31,  42,  43,  44,  48 
Bohemia,  K.'of,  152,  153 
Bolinn,  de,  313 
Boldero,  176-188,  197 
Boleyn,  147,  152,  153,  357 
Bolingbroke,  Viscount,  47 
Bollena,  4 
Bolton,  64,  199 
Bolward,  243 
Bonaparte.  333 

Bond,  11,  19,  89,  185, 189,  191, 
240,  297,  311,  344 
Bonns,  263 
Boo’oyer,  366 
Boode,  30,  124 
Boord,  348 
Boorman,  358 
Booth,  274 
Bortham,  327 
Borlace,  279 
Borland,  27 
Borrett,  384 
Borrow,  199 
Bossett,  231 
Boston,  Lord,  191 
Boswortb,  53 
Boteler,  352,  354,  357 
Eotye,  175 
Boucneau,  357 
Bourchier,  47,  347 
Bourne,  133,  134 
Bouverie,  47 
Boville,  345,  372 
Bowater,  153 
Bowcer,  298,  299,  300 
Bowdoiu,  27 
Bowell,  266,  267 
Bower,  50,  253,  254,  270 
Bowes,  144.  190,  251 
Bowman.  382 
Bownd, 109 
Bowres,  253 
Bowyer,  99,  349 
Boyce,  380,  385 
Boyle,  359 

Boys,  127,  129,  131,  171 
Boyville,  350 
Bozun,  136,  144 
Brabant,  I).  of,  153 
Brabou,  353 
Bradfield,  356 
Bradlaugh,  193 
Bradley,  86 
Biadshaw,  29 
Bradstreet,  99 


Bragg,  59,  62 

Brampton,  190,  191,  273,  274, 
277,  278,  286,  355,  356,  357 
Branch,  7,  25,  70,  71,  73,  261 
Brand,  44,  89,  160,  340 
Brandling,  287 

Brandon,  106,  203,  211,  212, 
213,  214,  215 
Brantliwirt,  355 
Brare,  240 
Brasnett.  186 
Brass,  187,  188 
Brattle,  27 
Bray,  14,  219,  220 
Bray  toft,  274 
Brazier,  50 
Breakspere,  116,  134 
Brend,  41,  190 
Bretfield,  377 
Bretland,  92,  95 
Brett,  1 63,  223 
Brewer,  218 
Brewse,  110,  119 
Brewster,  259,  301 
Brice,  123,  381 
Bridgeman.  94 
Bridges,  47,  355,  356 
Briggs,  269,  354 
Bright,  73.  114,  115,  119,  262, 
316,  321,  342,  375,  386 
Bristowe,  382 
Britten,  51,  55 
Brodespere,  135 
Broke,  62,  147,  272 
Brokenspear,  9,  132,  134 
Brond,  14,  50,  55,  83,  84,  339, 
340,  344 
Bronsden,  270 

Brooke,  49,  127,  129,  135,  190, 
206,  210,  211,  212,  288 
Brooker,  366 
Broome,  81,  175 
Broughton,  343 

Browne,  6,  9,  10,  14,  22,  27, 
77-82,  89,  94,  100,  102,  110, 
115,  118,  120,  130,  133,  190, 
196,  197,  209,  213,  221,  265, 
285,  317,  325,  332,  334,  363, 
365,  387,  391,  392 
Browming,  185 
Brownlow,  Lord,  365 
Broxbv,  145 
Bruce,  313 

Brudeneli,  147,  354,  357,  358 
Bruyn,  274 
Bryan,  49,  52,  53,  55 
Biyde,  als  Burd,  165,  166,  220, 
221,  223 

Brydon,  99,  252,  253,  254 
Bryme,  346 
Buck  ton,  343,  344 
Buck,  228 

Buckenham,  228,  234 
Buckingham,  D.  of,  135 
Buckinghamshire,  E.  of,  362, 
363 

Buckland,  303,  385 
Buckridge,  156,  159 
Buckworth,  364 
Budland,  12 
Bulkley,  99 

Bull,  55,  60,  62,  329,  38C 
Buller,  41,  292,  389 
Bullen,  73,  348,  389 


Bulstrode,  358 
Bulwer,  38,  39,  389 
Bonne,  286 
Bunnett,  100 
Bunyan,  381 

Burd,  13,  25,  39,  166,  223 
Burgess,  86,  87,  364,  365 
Burgh,  190,  191,  193,  356 
Burke,  242,  250 
Burkes,  100 

Burleigh,  Lord,  81,  249,  350. 
351,  354 

Burlington,  E.  of,  53,  174 
Burlz,  209,  213,  296 
Barman,  203,  204,  213,  355,  370 
Burnell,  3,  304,  306 
Burnham,  331 
Burns,  367 

Burrell,  186,  245,  248,  295,  311 
Burro,  295,  296,  297 
Burrough,  51,  245,  248,  252, 
294-314,  391 
Burrow,  200 
Burrowes,  302 

Burton,  3,  9,  25,  39,  272,  289 
Bur  ward,  196 
Burwell,  308,  310 
Bury,  57,  64 
Bush,  376 

Butcher,  78,  214,  387 
Butler,  233,  252,  280,  313,  322, 
328,  329,  335,  359 
Butter,  286 
Butts,  169,  367 
Byam,  28,  32,  389 
Byll,  165 
Byng,  386 
Byrchinshaw,  393 
Byrd,  166,  389 


Cage,  176,  177,  183,  184,  187, 
326,  327,  329,  335 
Calder,  261 

Calthorp.  81,  152,  153,  190, 
235,  249,  354,  357,  358 
Calton,  55,  297,  298 
Calverley,  364 
Camden,  10,  117 
Came,  261 
Camock,  195 
Campbell,  334 
Campion,  185 
Camplyn,  226 

Candler,  103,  118,  154,  210, 
239,  238,  239,  240,  266,  328, 
345 

Canham,  344 
Canne,  121 

Cannon,  117,  240,  365 
Capell,  47,  302 
Carbouell,  322,  345,  372 
Carde,  364 
Carden,  28 

Cardinal,  56,  57,  62,  64,  286, 
370,  389 

Carew,  113,  354,  359 
Carew,  als  Harvey,  45 
Carey,  118,  257,  370 
Carie,  255 
Carlisle,  32 
Carlisle,  E.  of,  98,  99 
Carman,  197 
Carnegie,  314 


Carrick,  E,  of,  313 
Carrington,  Lord,  187 
Carter,  197,  239,  240,  293,  366, 
379,  390 
Carthew,  386 
Cartwright,  159,  186 
Carver,  384 
Casborne,  364 
Castle,  214,  261,  293 
Castlestuart,  E.  of,  187 
Castleton,  73 
Gatchmay,  133 
Catchpole,  120,  305 
Catlyn,  204,  226 
Catou,  334 
Causton,  67 
Cavalere,  274 
Cavan,  E.  of,  385 
Cave,  249 
Cavell,  365,  367 
Cavendish,  142 
Cawby,  114 
Cawdor,  E.  of,  133 
Cawley,  1'15,  316,  317,  321 
Cawson,  258 
Cawston,  258,  261 
Cecil,  81,  99,  249,  351,  354 
Cellyn,  97,  99 

Celv,  Celie,  5,  25,  42,  47,  63, 
165,  166,  223,  242,  246,  389 
Chalker,  197 
Challenor,  205 

Chamberlain,  21,  35,  71,  159, 
188,  355,  356 
Chambers,  282 
Chandler,  175 
Chann,  383 

Chaplyn,  73,  94,  105,  224,  226 

Chapman,  18,  204,  347,  349 

Charles,  106 

Charles  IV,  152 

Charnoek,  218 

Chauncey,  26,  57,  64 

Cheape,  326 

Chelsham,  122,  131 

Chenerie,  362,  364 

Chester,  34,  313 

Chetting,  183 

Chetwood,  358 

Cheuduit,  274 

Chevallier,  192 

Chewyt,  142 

Cheyney,  145,  390 

Chichester,  47 

Childers,  385 

Children,  39 

Chilton,  270 

Chitting,  183,  184,  185 

Cholmley,  319,  363,  365 

Christian,  383 

Christie,  188 

Church,  53,  56,  64,  164,  189 
Churchman,  193 
Chute,  164 
Clapham,  160 
Clapp,  250 
Claptliorne,  363,  365 
Clapton,  140 
Clare,  313,  369,  370 
Clarke,  64,  113,  125,  126,  ISO, 
131,  134,  163,  164,  165,  166, 
179,  265,  276,  277,  287,  304, 
317,  319,  321,  331,  332,  347, 
355,  356,  364,  365  367 

3  E 


402 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Clarkson,  349 

Claxton,  41,  143,  347,  356 

Clay,  229,  230 

Claydon,  298 

Cleere,  194,  349 

Clench,  73,  209,  210,  213,  214, 

oqq 

Cler,  306 

Clere,  69,  73,  143,  191,  193, 
194,  295,  296 
Cleveland,  E.  of,  118 
Cliff,  120 

Clifford,  135,  351,  354,  355 
Clinch,  213 
Clipsam,  364 
Clodd,  192 
Clogge,  67 

Cloptou,  11,  12.  22,  23,  26,  89, 
136-145,  325,  344,  346,  390 
Clyatt,  117,  120 
Clyff,  148,  338 
Coale,  266 
Cobh,  237 
Cobhatn,  313 

Cock,  117,  144,  245,  247,  248, 
370 

Cockayne,  355 
Cockburu,  362 
Cockerell,  142 
Cockerum,  161 
Cocket,  355 
Cocknian,  351 
Cocksedge,  145,  185,  186 
Cockshall,  176,  177 
Coe,  see  Coo 
Coell,  339 
Coggan,  26,  159 
Cogtiey,  293 

Coggeshall,  139,  176,  178,  184, 
232,  233,  374 
Cogswell,  332 

Coke,  80,  89,  109,  208,  209, 

210,  212 

Coker,  145,  289,  293,  390 
Colborne,  Lord,  286 
Colby,  190,  380 

Cole,  8,  58,  230,  267,  279,  316, 
321 

Coles,  230 

Coleman,  143,  170,  180,  186, 
255,  286,  305,  306,  314,  317, 
325 

Colet,  147 
Colinge,  170 

Collins,  14,  123,  229,  230,  286 
Colman,  58,  325 
Colquyn,  12 
Colt,  191 

Colville,  162,  228,  336 
Comyn,  274 
Comyns,  287,  362,  363 
Condy,  322 
Conefield,  378 
Constable,  249,  355 
Conyngsby,  147,  152,  153 
Coo,  35,  70,  239,  249,  338,  355. 
385,  386 

Cooke.  49,  50.  55,  57,  64,  67, 
80,  82,  95,  111,  145,  160-164, 
181,  185,  186,  201,  209,  232, 
233,  241,  285,  287,  288,  289, 
294,  328,  333,  334,  364,  383 
Cooper,  92,  333,  339,  344 
Coot,  253,  254 


Copinger,  118,  211,  296,  356 
Ooppiu,  197,  259,  260,  261,  265 
Copping,  191,  210,  211,  212 
Corbett.  133,  135,  279,  -280, 
281,  286,  354,  363,  365 
Cordell,  136,  144 
Coruford,  124 
Cornish,  47 
Cornwall,  188 

Cornwallis,  71,  73,  110,  192 

Corsellis,  180 

Corwin,  27 

Cory,  303 

Cotta,  6,  25 

Cotteway,  232 

Cottie,  6 

Cotton,  98,  99,  190,  233,  313, 
373,  374 
Coulscm,  321 
Courtenay,  30,  153 
Covell,  233 
Covert,  246 

Cowper,  122,  131,  197,  338, 
348 

Coxey.  152 
Coy, ‘l  53 

Coytmore,  26,  154,  159 
Cradoek,  286,  328,  329 
Craft,  333 

r!rff  lrp  1  ^9 

Crane’  73,  143,  144,  197,  203, 
204,  210,  211,  267,  290,  293, 
322,  327,  328,  329,  335 
Cranmer,  167 
Cressenor,  258 
Cress  well,  213 
Cressve,  245 
Crewe,  Lady,  144 
Crick.  368 

Crispe,  105,  106,  107,  141,  145, 
169,  171,  172,  187,  390 
Crocker,  305,  332 
Croft,  135 

Croftes,  347.  358,  372 

Croke,  150 

Cromwell,  334 

Crooke,  150,  151,  279,  324 

Crookes,  279 

Crople,  375 

Cropley,  94,  170 

Crosse,  214 

Crossley,  319 

Crouch,  62 

Crow,  230 

Crymble,  118,  121-131 
Crype,  122 

Cuddon,  191,  194,  256,  257 
Culham,  268 

Cullum,  64,  164,  169-175,  345, 
350,  354,  391 
Culpeck,  339 
Cumberland,  E.  of,  135 
Cumin,  297 
Curson,  143 
Curteen,  317 
Curtis,  26,  66 
Currye,  214,  215 
Cushin,  285 
Oust,  365 
Cutbert,  163 
Cutcliffe,  237 
Cuthbert,  163,  164 
Cutler,  56,  58,  59,  62,  64,  118, 
144,  267,  331 


Cutlove,  197 
Cutte,  242 
Cutter,  333 


Dade,  192,  272 
Daggett,  337 
Dallison,  145,  390 
Dameron,  237 
Damport,  190 
Dane,  331 
Daniel,  251 
Darby,  192,  208,  212 
Darcy,  142,  143,  313,  349 
Darell,  144,  392 
Darken,  317 
Darnley,  E.  of,  30 
Darsham,  374 

Daundy,  117,  285,  869,  370 

Davenant,  219 

David  I,  313 

Davie,  30 

Davies,  341 

Davy,  62,  102,  132,  184,  265, 
373 

Dawbenv,  119 
Dawes,  214 
Dawnev,  390 

Dawson,  73,  316,  320,  321 
Dawys,  203 
Dav,’  332,  347 

Deane,  33,  48,  136,  149,  150, 
151,  152,  153,  154,  172,  173, 
174,  200,  293,  357,  391 
De  Barry,  342,  344 
Debenham,  311 
Debnam,  310 
Deering,  281,  304 
De  Forte,  274 
De  Fortibus,  135 
De  Grav,  141,  142 
De  Hem,  180,  187 
De  la  Field,  385 
De  la  Freigne,  359 
De  la  Greene,  346 
De  la  Hid,  346 
De  la  Piend,  296 
Delapoole,  106 
De  la  Verrey,  314 
Dell,  114,  115,  119,  321 
Del  pratt.  187 
Dene,  152,  153,  352 
Denison,  164 
Denning,  28 

Denston,  142,  189,  354,  355, 
356 

Denny,  352 
Derehaugh,  58,  59,  63 
Deresley,  245,  248 
De  Scales,  137 
Despencer,  le,  313 
Detheck,  1,  2,  3 
Deve,  143 
De  Vere,  37,  146 
Devereux,  117,  118,  120,  135, 
143,  190 
Devyngton,  138 
D’Ewes,  139,  142,  143 
De  Wolf,  26 
Deye,  70,  239,  240 
D’Eye,  170 
Deynes,  272 
Dick,  174 


Dickens,  1 85 
Digby,  209 
Digges,  43 
Dighton,  286 

Dillingham,  274,  288,  316,  321 
Ditchfield.  167 
Ditmas,  187 
Disney,  321 

Dixon,  91,  173,  312,  314 
Dobede,  261 
Dobie,  28 
Docker.  214 
Dodd,  366 
Doddridge,  287 
Dodge,  331 
Dodinere,  217 
Dodson,  185 

Doggett,,  11,  39,  144,  282,  312, 
337-344 
Doliffe,  365 
Donne,  Dr.,  354 
Dorrington,  49,  65,  75 
Dove,  233 

Doughty,  214,  215,  384,  387 
Douglas,  347 
Dowe,  164,  192 
Downes,  190,  293,  331,  347 
Downing,  6,  25,  33,  92,  93, 
96-99,  249,  389,  390,  393 
Dowsen,  227 
Doyle,  56,  60 
Doylye,  144 
Drake,  191,  372,  385 
Diaper,  192 
Drane,  44 
Drayner,  100 
Dreer,  334 
Drew,  188,  366 
Drowrey,  360 
Drummond,  288,  313 
Drury,  142,  154,  191,  217,  251, 
279,  282,  285,  292,  312,  314, 
345-372,  389,  392,  393 
Drycott,  70 
Dudley,  26,  27,  254 
Duffield,  178,  179 
Duke,  78,  79,  82,  193,  235,  279, 
340,  367 

Dumrner,  191,  330 
Dun,  246 
Duncan,  164 
Duneombe,  351 
Dunkon,  65,  87,  390 
Duuster,  26 
Dunston,  357,  385 
Dunton,  277 
Durraut,  384,  387 
Dusgate,  169,  170,  370 
Dyneley,  274 
Dynne,  152 
Dyxe,  284 


Eames,  192 
Easton,  230 
Eaton,  261,  28a,  354 
Ecton,  40 
Edes,  284 

Edgar,  44,  210,  214,  215,  257, 
305,  338,  344 
Edge,  73 
Edgell,  387 
Edisbury,  99 


INDEX  NOMINUM 


403 


Edon,  349 

Edward  (Confessor),  201 
Edward  I,  286,  313 
Edwards,  74,  75,  76,  368 
Egerton,  8,  149,  150,  152,  153, 
154 

Eggers,  173 
Eggly,  386 
Egleonby,  247,  248 
Ela,  332 

Eldred,  220,  222,  267 
Elfryd,  133 
Elgin,  E.  of,  354 
Elizabeth,  Queen,  3,  37,  352, 
357 

Ella,  d.  of  William  I,  133 
Elliot,  187 
Ellis,  167,  190 
Ellison,  267 
Ellistou,  145 
Elrnes,  143 

Elmy,  191,  193,  194,  195-197 

Elton,  170 

Emerson,  164 

Emery,  330 

Endesor,  350 

Endicott,  27 

Engle,  202 

Ensign,  230 

Eppes,  160,  161,  162,  164 
Erneley,  47,  68,  73 
Erpingham,  142 
Erskine,  314 
Essex,  E.  of,  55 
Essington,  112 
Estrabrook,  331,  120 
Etheridge,  als.  R.,  300 
Eustace,  139,  142 
Evans- Freke,  246 
Everard,  145,  247,  248,  259, 
260,  329,  230 
Everett,  31,  331 
Everis,  43 
Everleigh,  30,  387 
Ewart,  307,  308,  312,  314 
Exmouth,  Lord,  30 
Eyre,  27,  74,  75,  76 


Facon,  11 

Fairbearn,  328,  329 
Fairfax,  118,  120 
Fairfield,  331 
Fallowfietd,  187,  188 
Farbrace,  27 
Farmer,  122,  131 
Farmour,  152 
Farr,  384 
Fassett,  144 
Father,  268 
Fawcett,  174 
Fayercliffe,  184,  185 
Fayerweather,  26 
Feacham,  389 
Feake,  26,  87 
Fearing,  333 
Felbrigg,  152,  153 
Fellows,  332 
Felton,  218,  304,  347 
Fenditton,  137 
Ferdinand  III,  313 
Fermor,  153 
Fernegau,  376 


|  Fernley,  119 
|  Ferrers,  190 
Fidler,  66 

Field,  324,  333,  334 
Finch,  39,  357 
Firmage,  292,  293 
Firtnyn,  79,  140 
Fish,  91,  363 

Fisher,  46,  149,  152,  153,  210, 
211,  212,  217,  223 
Fisk,  73,  185,  197,  239,  377 
Fitch,  83,  218,  265,  330 
Fitz  Adam,  135 
Fitzalan,  135 
Fitz  Eustace,  1 42 
Fitzharding,  354 
Fitz  Henry,  133,  135 
Fitzherbert,  133,  135,  147,  274 
Fitz  Hugh,  137,  142 
!  Fitz  Peter,  133,  135 
Fitz  Reginald,  135 
Fitz  Roger,  133 
Fitz  Stephen,  359 
Fitz  Walter,  46,  47,  133 
Fitzwarren,  374 
Flack,  339,  344 
Flatman,  223 
Fletcher,  245 
Flete,  147,  202,  211 
Flette,  202 
Foker,  279 
Foljambe,  350 
Folkard,  240 

Folkes,  145,  173,  235,  295 
Folkestone,  Viscount,  47 
Fones,  7,  9,  10,  25,  26,  27, 
83-87,  168,  389,  390,  393 
Foot,  34,  35 
Forester,  99 
Forssett,  110 
Forster,  359 

Forth,  1,  7,  9,  10,  19,  20,  22, 
23,  26,  46,  55,  64,  69,  108- 
131,  132,  135,  191,  254,  287, 
315-321,  349,  389,  390 
Fortibus,  De,  133 
Foscott,  274 
Foster,  172,  280,  330 
Fouhell,  289 
Fountaine,  79 
Fowell,  270 
Fower,  154 
Fowler,  47,  372,  382 
Fox,  6,  31,  269,  270,  286,  338 
Frail,  332 

Francis,  136, 139,  142, 189, 190, 
-  367 
Frazer,  27 

Freake,  244,  247,  248,  249 
Freboru,  122,  131 
Freigne,  De  la,  359 
Freke,  246 
Freman,  378 

French,  59,  78,  160,  309,  311, 
333 

Frere,  117,  169,  175,  288 
Freston,  193 

Freysell,  345,  346,  350,  357, 
358 

Frost,  25,  95,  260,  267 
Fruen,  230 
Frye,  28 
Fryke,  219 
Fulham,  171 


Fuller,  35,  228 
Fulmerston,  68,  69,  73 
Fyneux,  147 


Gage,  174,  350 
Gael,  213,  344 

Gale,  13,  26, 187,  188,  272,  325, 
330,  332 
Gallup,  164 
Gam,  135 
Gamage,  133 
Gamon,  200 
Garblesham,  228 
Gardiuer,  47,  185,  186,  210, 
211,  212,  215 
Gardner,  65,  99,  209 
Garland,  365,  366 
Garner,  377 

Garneys,  189-194,  196,  240, 
285,  355,  356,  391 
Garnham,  265 
Garnon,  192 
Garrad,  99 
Garrett,  282,  364 
Garway.  328,  329 
Gate,  283 
Gates,  143 

Gaunt,  John  of,  313,  346,  347 
Gavell,  145 
Gawdy,  191,  292 
Gayle,  207 

Gedding,  163,  345,  346,  350, 
357,  372 
Gee,  187,  331 
Gellum,  94,  95 
Gener,  211 
Gentle,  260 
Gerard,  47,  181 
Gerbridge,  142 
Gere,  167 
Gerrish  331,  334 
Gery,  172,  173,  174 
Geyton,  268 
Ghelsara,  131 
Gibbon,  364 
Gibbs,  197,  317,  330 
Gibson,  82,  102,  150,  170,  175, 
271,  272,  304,  311,  327,  367, 
371 

Giddings,  332 
Gifford,  281,  314,  329 
Gilbert,  54,  109,  118,  120,  261, 
369,  370,  383 
Gildersleeve,  270,  327 
Gilget,  222,  223 
Gill.  113 

Gillett,  als.  Candler,  230,  238, 
239,  240 
Gillingham,  332 
Gill’ms,  133 

Gippes,  177,  178,  183,  184,  197 
Girling,  257,  336 
Gislingham,  293 
Glanfield,  49,  50,  55,  279 
Glanvill,  152 
Glascock,  145,  260 
Gleane,  357 
Glede,  58 

Glemham,  111,  113,  116,  118, 
119,  120 
Gliston,  168 

Glover,  26,  175,  214,  251,  252, 
254,  268,  330 


|  Goade,  97,  99 
Goate,  170 

Godbold,  181,  185,  228 
Goddard,  203,  235,  364 
Godfrey,  14,  213 
Goding,  213,  216 
Godmanston,  274 
Godsalve,  147 
Godwin,  133,  134,  201 
Gogle,  368 
Gold,  331 

Golding,  119,  125,  126,  127, 
129,  130,  131,  293,  349 
Goldingham,  347,  349 
Goldfinch,  304,  306 
Gooch,  184 
Goodall,  52 
Goodbody,  328,  329 
Goodday,  118,  120 
Gooden,  208 
Goodenough,  180,  187 
Goodhew,  173 
Gooding,  37,  179,  201-240 
Goodrich,  177 
Goodrick,  292 

Goodwin,  47,  62,  145,  158,  160, 
167,  168,  201-240,  271,  287, 
347,  387,  390,  391 
!  Gore,  314,  331,  359,  362 
Goriug,  Lord,  118,  154 
i  Gosling,  8,  23,  33,  59,  101,  370 
Gosuold,  58,  62,  63,  73,  100, 
118,  120,  200,  344 
Gostlin,  6,  20,  25,  79,  81,  88- 
95,  191,  282,  327,  389 
Gouge,  151 
Gough,  216 
Gould,  46,  287 
Goushill,  313 
Go  vie,  368 
Gower,  264 
Gowld,  184 
Grandorge,  80 
Grautesmill,  152 
Graves,  301 

Gray,  135,  142,  203,  263,  314, 
347,  354,  356,  357,  358 
Greaton,  78 

Green,  233,  267,  330,  346,  379, 
385 

Greenhall,  1 1 4 
Greenhill,  114 
Greenleaf,  267,  330 
Greenrice,  79 
Gregory,  218 
Greton,  78 
Gresley,  349 
Greyling,  277 
Gridley,  90 
Griffin,  181,  185,  249 
Grigby,  141 

Grigg,  198-200,  265,  391 
Griggs,  198,  199,  200,  261,  265 
Grigson,  186,  366 
Grimble,  267 
Grimser,  236 

Grimstone,  66,  73,  190,  347 
Grimwade,  78,  106,  107 
Groom,  66,  67,  73,  268,  269, 
270,  272 
Grove,  73 
Grover,  26 
Grundy,  366 
Gubbius,  307 


3  E2 


404 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Gueldres,  D.  of,  313 
Gunsonn,  47 
Gunter,  348 

Gurdon,  7,  33,  45,  46,  47,  88, 
89,  225,  273-288,  293,  329, 
335,  339,  344,  356,  391 
Gurton,  232 
Gutsole,  250 

Gwaringdu,  9,  116,  117,  132, 
133,  134,  135 
Gwarin.  D.  De,  134 
Gwent,  Kings  of,  135 
Gwylym,  133 


Habel,  253 
Haddon,  14,  110 
Had  lock,  101 
Haijs,  172 

Hainault,  Count  of,  313 
Hale,  170 
Hales,  197,  261 
Halford,  287 

Hall,  26,  69,  210,  213,  247,  248, 
259,  282,  326 
Hallett,  26,  87 
Hamby,  226 
Hamilton,  270,  313 
Hammond,  60,  62,  229,  251- 
272,  282,  293,  333,  335,  391 
Hanbury,  287 
Hancock,  26,  158,  262 
Hanford-Flood.  172 
Hanham,  77,  89 
Hanmer,  171 
Hanna’,  279 
Hanningfield,  354 
Hanson,  172,  173 
Harbart,  66 
Harbord,  355 
Harborue,  355 
Harbottle,  66,  73 
Harlackenden,  46,  164 
Harland,  173.  174 
Harleston,  142 
Harlock,  261 
Harlwyn,  213,  240 
Harman,  28,  202,  203,  297,  311, 
368,  383 
Harpbam,  245 
Harrington,  150 
Harris,  45,  47,  122,  145,  164, 
248 

Harrison,  167,  369,  370,  384 
Harry,  133 
Harsenet,  357 
Hart,  250 
Hartwell,  352,  358 


Harvey,  33 

,  47 

,  62, 

68, 

116, 

117,  119, 

136, 

170, 

196, 

235, 

247,  248. 

257, 

262, 

269, 

285, 

287,  315, 

321, 

354, 

375, 

376, 

390 

Harvey,  als.  Carew,  45 
Harward,  377 
Harwell,  183,  185 
Harwick,  364 
Haselfoote,  60 
Hasell,  362,  364,  390 
Hasilden,  374 
Hastings,  246 
Hatch,  381,  382,  383,  386 
Haven,  330 


Havers,  206,  213 
Haw,  85,  87 
Hawes,  204 
Hawis,  286 
Hawkins,  367 
Hawley,  108,  172 
Haworth,  174 
Hawte,  322 
Hay,  27,  382 
Haydon,  346,  354 
Hayes,  112,  118,  120 
Hay  ford,  14 
Hayle,  48,  157 
Hays,  172 

Hayward,  69,  73,  183,  184,  199, 
204,  205,  211,  212,  213,  215, 
226,  331,  344 
Head,  240 
Heale,  86 
Heaselwood,  186 
Heath,  33,  346,  354,  372,  378 
Heatlicote,  92,  95,  270,  288 
Hedding,  367 
Hedge,  225 

Heigham,  73,  235,  258,  295, 
296,  311 
Helder,  247,  248 
Hellowes,  195,  196 
Helyou,  35 
Hemenhall,  374 
Heoipsted,  374 
Hen,  13 

Henderson,  330 
Henny,  4,  25,  389 
Henry  I,  313 
Henry  IV,  313 
Henry  VII,  153 
Henry  VIII,  105 
Henshaw,  383,  384 
Herberd,  65 

Herbert,  106,  107,  133,  134, 
135,  170,  292 
Herde,  196 

Hereford,  E.  of,  118,  120,  133, 
135,  190,  274,  313 
Heriz,  248 
Herman,  202 
Herring,  120 
Hesketh,  368 
Heu’er,  35 

Heveningham,  255,  290,  291 
Hewer,  184,  185 
Heyborne,  356 
Heydon,  143,  153 
Heyman,  131 
Hibberd,  188 
Hickes,  163,  164 
Higginson,  318,  348 
H  iggyu,  165 

Higham,  66,  106,  107,296,  308. 
310,  314 

Highmore,  295,  303,  306,  307, 
308,  312,  314,  380 
Hildersham,  244,  245,  247,  248 
Hilderson,  150 

Hill,  97,  231,  233,  284,  288,317 
Hilles,  9,  25,  78,  82,  100-102, 
119,  122,  123,  124,  131,  245 
Hillersdeu,  316,  320,  321 
Hilton,  293,  320,  372 
Hindes,  262 
Hippesley,  75,  314 
Hirne,  292.  293 
Hitcham,  169 


Hitchborn,  26 
Hoare,  301 
Hobard,  109 

Hobart,  143,  144, 197,  293,  354 

Hodges,  306 

Hoe,  263 

Hogan.  293 

Hoi  ben,  362,  364 

Holbrook,  107 

Holland,  125,  126,  127,  129, 
131,  287,  313,  368 
Holley,  270 
Holloway,  226 
Holmaie,  200 
Holman,  49,  198 
Holmes,  105 
Hoi  well,  250 
Holyoke,  330 
Holywood,  35 
Hoinfray,  174 
Hondon,  215 
Honeywood,  47 
Hook,  120,  270,  331,  372 
Hooker,  229 
Hopkin,  133,  134,  135 
Hopper.  89 
Hopton,  144,  239 
Hore,  249 
Horucastle,  173 
Horner,  74,  75,  76,  169 
Hornigold.  177 
Horningold,  177 
Horsey,  246 
Horton,  80 
Hosear,  122 
Hoskins,  25 
Hough,  26 
Houghton,  259,  260 
Hoult,  317 
Ho  veil,  64,  214 

Howard.  23,  28,  68,  99,  136, 
137,  142,  167,  183,  288,  313, 
345 

Howe,  263,  264,  332 
Howell,  133,  134,  135 
Howes,  365 
Howlett,  105,  107 
Hoxton,  156,  157,  159 
Hubbald,  114 
Hubbard,  143,  204,  331 
Hubert,  226 
Huddye,  380 
Hudson,  285 
Huggins,  91 
Hugh,  137 

Hughes,  208,  301,  305 
Hull,  32 
Hulton,  33 
Humfrey,  63,  79 
Humphreys,  117,  366 
Hunvate,  189,  192 
Hunlocke,  55 
Hunlope,  329 
Hunne,  165,  223,  389 
Hunsdon,  Lord,  370 
Hunt,  62,  100,  102,  186,  205, 
209,  213,  259,  275,  289,  290, 
333 

Huntingdon,  E.  of,  135,  313 
Huntley,  133,  134 
Hunwich,  150 
Hurdman,  348 
Hurlock,  267 
Hurt,  164 


Husac,  4 
Husey,  69 
Hussey- Freke,  246 
Hutchinson,  187,  188 
Hulton.  144 
Hyde,  94,  333 
Hyeghe,  106,  107 
Hyelston.  86 
Hynde,  358,  392 


Ickworth,  346 
Inglebright,  364 
Inglethorpe,  152 
Inglose,  391 
Ingold,  237,  391 
Inkfordby,  220 
Inman,  179,  184,  185 
Irby,  191,  192,  193 
Ireland,  197 

lsaack,  60,  64,  164,  322,  329, 
335,  354 
Isbourde,  14 
Ivatt,  30 

Ives,  191,  363,  365 
Ivye,  169 


Jackson,  61,  140, 168, 173,  191, 
230,  262,  265,  329,  355 
Jacob,  als.  B.,  193 
Jacob,  330 
Jacombe,  287 
Jaffery,  26 
James,  197,  293,  382 
Jameson,  185 
Jauings,  49 
Jarvish,  63 
Jasper,  380 
Jaxon, 156 
Jeaffreson,  233,  342 
Jeffries,  364 
Jeffery,  192 

Jenkin,  134,  135,  172,  164 
Jenkins,  366 
Jenkinson,  59,  62 
Jenuer,  209,  210,  211 
Jenney,  63,  120,  144,  157,  159, 
190,  251,  254,  258,  290,  355, 
392 

Jennyns,  124 

Jenny,  73,  144,  190,  298,  299, 
335 

Jertnyn,  47,  68,  143,  146,  153, 
286,  289,  290,  293,  296,  327, 
329,  335,  354 

Jernegan,  120,  254,  354,  378, 
390 

Jerninghain,  191,  354,  357,  358 

Jerome,  206,  210,  211 

Jerrold,  89 

Jervis,  262,  293,  376 

Jessup,  169.  284,  285 

Jettor,  377,  379,  385 

Jevor,  134 

Jewett,  322,  331 

Joan  of  Acre,  313 

Joanes,  59 

John  of  Gaunt,  313,  346,  347 
Johnson,  180,  220,  256,  257, 
319,  380 
Joliffe,  287 


INDEX  NOMINUM 


405 


Jolly,  191,  193,  261 
Jones,  28,  29,  32,  74,  75,  76, 
133,  150,  284,  357,  389 
Jordan,  392 
Joseliue.  151 
Joy,  180 
Joyner,  287 
Jukes,  318,  319,  321 
Jurin,  372,  393 
Jury,  228 
Juxon,  375,  376 


Keble,  53.  208,  212,  327 

Kedby,  89,  90,  95,  339,  344 

Keene,  119,  240,  315,  321,  390 

Keepe,  227,  228 

Keighley,  371 

Kelly,  387 

Kemball,  287 

Kempe,  66,  89,  107,  208,  212, 
227,  305,  306,  311,  355,  390 
Kendall,  250,  331 
Kene,  see  Keene 
Kensington,  Lord,  171 
Kent,  26,  181,  186,  344,  370 
Kent,  E.  of,  135 
Kenton,  189,  190 
Keppinge,  224,  226 
Kerrington,  59,  260 
Kersey,  227,  228 
Kett,  192 

Kerves,  als.  Allen,  275 
Kewitt,  316 
Iveye,  260,  261,  285 
Keyes,  152 
Kighley,  144 
Kildare,  E.  of,  307,  313 
Kilinorey,  314,  355 
King,  28,  73,  144,  153,  187, 
193,  264,  287,  309,  311,  335, 
359,  364,  368 
Kiugscote,  264 
Kingston,  352 
Kinsman,  332,  365 
Kiuwelmarsh,  298,  299,  300 
Kirby,  96,  97,  99,  292,  390 
Kirkham,  136 
Kishire,  307 
Kitteridge,  384 
Knapp,  66,  106,  107,  208 
Knewstubb,  89,  279,  282,  324 
Knight,  293 
Knightley,  120,  191 
Knighton,  106 
Knights,  214,  239 
Knowles,  233 
Knowlton,  331 
Knyffe,  358 

Knyvett,  43, 120,  136, 143,  144, 
288,  391 
Kokerell,  139 


Labbes,  377 
Lacy,  202,  313 

Lake,  160,  161,  162,  163,  164 
Lambarde,  287 
Lambe,  111,  162 
Lancaster,  228,  247,  248 
Lander,  330 
Lane,  29,  204,  214,  330 


I  Langford,  32 
i  Langham,  262,  373-376 
Langley,  245,  246,  247,  248 
Lanye,  44,  257 

Lappage,  89,  337,  338,  340,  343 
La  Kous,  47 
Latham,  318 
Laughlin,  18,  89 
Laverock,  364 
Lavington,  28 
j  Lawell,  86 

Lawrence,  48,  55,  162,  171, 
172,  197,  233,  279,  286,  368 
!  Lawsell,  138 
j  Lawson,  198,  200 
Lay,  383 
|  Laver,  223 
|  Leagy,  212 
I  Lear,  163 
Le  Cherche,  190 
Lechmere,  98 
Lee,  141,  159,  214,  237 
J  Leech,  150,  355 
J  Leeds,  46 
|  Leeke,  236 
j  Legge,  208,  210,  212 
Le  Gris,  344 
j  Le  Gros,  256,  293,  359 
Lehr,  174 

Leicester,  E.  of,  286 
Leigh,  110,  237 
Leman,  118 
Le  Mott,  390 
Le  Neve,  96,  345,  386 
Leonard,  373 
Lennox,  E.  of,  313,  314 
Lentliall,  191 
Le  Palmer,  346 
Leslie,  287,  314 
L’Estrange,  354 
Le  Taylor,  247,  248,  250 
Leventhorpe,  163,  164,  285 
Leverer,  139 
Leveriand,  118 
Leving,  188 
Lewin,  293,  343 
Lewkenor,  296,  297 
Lewis.  188,  208,  212,  249,  285, 
326 

Lewyns,  187,  188 
Lewysse,  217 
Lilly,  66,  264,  265 
Lincoln,  226 
Liudall,  27 
Ling,  265 
Lippincott,  230 
Lisle,  301 
Lister,  356 

Liston,  345,  347,  349,  372 
Little,  286 

Littlebury.  183,  185,  329 
Livingstone,  27 
Lizers,  273 

Lloyd,  28,  30,  191,  359 
Locke,  55,  283 
Lodge,  168 
Lome,  286 
Long,  312,  314 
Longfellow,  331 
Longuemantle,  344 
Lonsdale,  Lord,  188 
Louzam,  73 
Lord,  180,  181 
I  Louis  XVII,  333 


Loveday,  147 
Loveing,  300 

Lovell,  89,  146,  282,  326,  355, 
356 

Lovering,  245,  248 
Lowe,  199 

Lowefield,  125,  126,  131 
Lownes,  199 
Lowtlier,  188 
Lucas,  104,  106,  107,  214 
Ludbroke,  228 
Lufkyu,  275 
Lunt,  334 
Luscoe,  267 
Lushington,  188 
Luttreli,  26 
Luxemberg,  E.  of,  153 
Lynclie,  67 
Lyncoll,  138 
Lynde,  26,  104 
Lynsey,  38 
Lyon,  26,  87 
Lyons,  28 
Lyrskin,  12 

Lysle,  Viscount,  106,  287 
Lytton,  110,  274,  280,  284, 
286,  287,  288 
Lyzetts,  152 


Machell,  217,  218,  219 

Mackenzie,  366 

Mackintosh,  331 

MackMurrough,  313 

Mackworth,  159 

Maddock,  58 

Mael,  145 

Maidstone,  144 

Malbank,  86 

Malbye,  118 

Mallet,  30 

Maltiward,  71 

Maltravers,  Lord,  135,  154 

Manchester,  D.  of,  321 

Manfield,  186 

Manister,  43,  48,  305 

Manley,  264 

Mann,  37,  268,  269 

Manning,  160 

Mannock,  101,  119 

Mansfield,  240 

Mantle,  173 

Manwood,  81 

March,  364 

Margerum,  267 

Margetts,  204,  212,  269,  270 

Margretts,  269 

Markham  186 

Markhant,  354 

Marney,  274 

Marr,  E.  of,  313 

Marrable,  161 

Marriot,  328 

Marrow,  143,  144 

Marsh,  368 

Marshall,  256,  257,  272,  318, 
321,  351 
Marsham,  357 
Marston,  27 

Martin,  35,  78,  119,  120,  124, 
164,  275,  286,  329,  355,  388 
Mary,  the  French  Q.,  106 
Mather,  303,  391 


Mathew,  28,  298,  299,  316 
Maunsel,  29 
Maxey,  226 
Maxwell,  359 
May,  73 

Mayhew,  37,  39,  214.  357 
Mayle,  244,  245 
Mays,  386 

Meade,  301,  318,  319,  320,  321 

Meadow,  256,  257 

Meadows,  94,  264,  388 

Means,  331 

Medcalfe,  217 

Meggs,  218,  246 

Melburne,  59 

Meller,  123,  124 

Mellish,  288 

Mellows,  26 

Mellys,  Mellves,  237 

Melton,  73 

Melville,  314 

Merest,  174 

Merlin,  174 

Merrells,  229,  230,  260 
Merrick,  148,  152 
Merry,  172 
Mestling,  378 

Metcalfe,  248,  287,  288,  322 
Methwold,  257,  290,  291,  292, 
293 

Miantonomo,  334 
Michell,  253 
Middletond,  288 
Mighell,  205,  206,  211,  331 
Mignot,  173,  175 
Mildmay,  5,  7,  10,  25,  41,  42- 
48,  81,  104,  107,  167,  200, 
283,  284,  287,  301 
Mildmay,  als.  Harvey,  47 
Mildon,  28 
Miles,  288 
Milesou,  262 
Millden,  32 

Miller,  27,  124,  198,  199,  200, 

293 

Millington,  199 
Mills,  103,  124,  386 
Milner-Gibson,  173 
Milton,  32,  138 
Miusterchamber,  293 
Mitchell,  29,  280 
Mitford,  374 
Modena,  D.  of,  173 
Mollington,  322 
Monger,  167 
Monings,  343 
Monk,  93,  354 

Montagu,  174,  199,  214,  384, 
387 

Montgomery,  367 
Monyns,  103 
Moody,  187,  197 
Moole,  159 
Moonies,  106 

Moore,  48,  133,  293,  322,  329. 

336,  337,  338,  343,  367,  383' 
Moores,  251 

Moifew,  179,  185,  227,  228 
Morgan,  75,  76,  230,  267 
Morley,  9,  116,  117,  132,  133, 
134,  135,  357 
Morpeth,  Viscount,  98 
Morris,  93 

Morse,  110,  111,  119,  382 


406 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


Mortimer,  190 
Moses,  382 
Moseley,  107,  272 
Mosse,  359 
M<>tt,  145,  390 
Moulton,  204 

Mountney,  293,  322,  329,  335 
Mounyng,  66,  69 
Mowling,  175,  215 
Moyle,  14] 

Mundeforil,  152,  153 
Munning,  25,  45,  73,  103-107 
Murdac,  350 
Murray,  363 
Murrills,  141,  319 
Murton,  265 
Murtyn,  132 
Muschamp,  286 

Muskett,  41, 117,  245,  247,  248, 
271,  389 
My  hells,  378 
My  land,  212 
Myleham,  212 
Mylde,  136,  142,  143 
Mynn,  43,  354 
Mynot,  275 


Napoleon,  333 
Nash,  372 

Naunton,  345,  346,  372 
Neale,  30,  100,  101,  102,  226, 
250,  306 
Neave,  240,  264 
Neavell,  140 
Needen,  141 
Needham,  314,  355,  388 
Neeld,  185 
Nelson,  270,  367 
Nesse,  356 
Nevill,  286,  392 
Newall,  387 
Newberry,  230 
Newcomen,  284 
Newman,  27,  100,  319 
Newson,  195,  196,  228 
Newton,  90,  95,  146,  338,  346 
Niccol,  208 
Nichols,  86 
Nicholson,  8,  89,  339 
Nightingale,  206,  207,  213 
Nix,  300 
Noone,  231 
Noore,  157 
Norbury,  E.  of,  288 
Norfolk,  D.  of,  28,  135,  313 
Norrington,  25,  167,  366,  391 
Norris,  91,  95,  143,  277,  285, 
344 

North,  160,  171,  347 
Northesk,  E.  of,  314 
Northumberland,  E.  of,  135 
Norton,  99,  314,  332 
Norwich,  118,  152,  344 
Norwoode,  5,  25 
Nott,  7,  25 
Nottingham,  286 
Nowell,  254 
Nunn,  184,  185,  186 
Nurse,  301 
Nutbrowne,  45 
Nuthall,  168,  184 
Nuttall,  43,  48,  181 


Oake,  274 
Oakes,  265 
Oakley,  181 
Ockley,  90 
Oder,  105,  344 
Odiam,  9,  117 
O’Donovan,  29 
Ogard,  329,  335 
Olcott,  230 
Oldefen,  373 

Oli.-er,  261,  290,  330,  331, 
332 

Oliver,  Yere,  389 
Onslow,  188 
Orbell,  265 
Orraested,  14 
Ormond,  E.  of,  313 
Ormsby,  288 
Orrell,  235 

Osborne,  13,  112,  179,  235 
Osgood,  331 
Osmond,  69,  105,  107 
Otgher,  342,  344 
Ougon,  284 
Owen,  145,  314 
Owtred,  40 
Oxborrow,  186 
Oxenford,  Lord,  67,  68 
Oxford,  E.  of,  37,  141,  354 
Ozanue,  387 


Packington,  249 
Pacy,  385 

Page,  43.  153,  178,  183,  184, 
292,  347 
Paget,  371 
Painter,  87 
Pake,  169 
Palaviccini,  143 
Pal  grave,  354 

Palmer,  47,  167,  172,  210,  232, 
233,  240,  334,  391 
Palmes,  27 
Paman,  296 
Pamont,  353 
Pamplyn,  317 
Papforth,  34 
Parke,  106,  107,  333’ 

Parker,  48,  112,  186,  206,  210, 
211,  260,  287,  312,  354,  357 
Parkhurst,  1 48,  266,  267 
Parks,  114,  321,  359 
Parkin,  27 
Parlett,  364,  368 
Parmenter,  59,  62 
Paron,  203 
Parris,  73,  145 
Parry,  28 

Parsons,  80,  81,  82,  163,  173, 
382 

Pascliall,  41,  47.  261,  262 
Pasfield,  183 
Paske,  229,  260 
Paskefield,  184 
Paston,  147,  152,  153,  349 
Patch,  332 
Pater,  293 
Patrick,  329 
Patterich,  267 
Patterson,  331,  333 
Paul,  168,  390 
Pay,  348 


Payne,  181,  185,  186,  260,  317, 

330,  331,  332,  356,  358,  385 
Paynell,  81,  82,  136 
Payson,  331 

Payton,  47,  89,  152,  261,  262, 
375,  376 
Peabody,  331 
Peach,  163,  267 

Peacock,  40,  136,  143,  200,  240 

Pearson,  363 

Peartree,  205 

Pease,  123 

Peccott,  142 

Peche.  266 

Pechell,  76 

Pechy,  284 

Peck,  168 

Pedley,  98,  366 

Peecot  142 

Peele,  330 

Pelham,  139,  286,  287 

Pell,  100,  222,  364 

Pellew,  30 

Pells,  260,  261 

Pemberton,  26 

Pembroke,  29,  134,  135,  234 

Pendleton,  198,  199,  200 

Pengelly,  99 

Penn,  358,  392 

Penning,  120 

Penrose,  385 

Pentelow,  de,  138 

Peppys,  216,  219,  349 

Percival,  80 

Percy,  135 

Perieut,  143 

Perkins,  114,  119,  120,  330, 

331,  332 
Perpoynte,  324 
Perryman,  232,  233 
Petehye,  163 
Peter,  27,  134,  164 
Peters,  93,  98,  99 
Petersdorff,  250 
Petre,  249,  314 
Peverell,  163 
Peyton,  190 
Philip  the  Fair,  313 
Phillips,  26,  175,  261,  302,  304, 

305,  306,  309,  310,  311,  330, 
332 

Philpott,  133 
Phipps,  303 
Pickering,  98,  99 
Picket,  363 

Pickmere,  205,  213,  363 
Piend,  89 
Pierce,  64,  331 
Pierson,  228 
Pigott,  338 
Pister,  305 
Pitkin,  230 
Pitt,  371,  372 
Pitts,  120,  292 
Plainer,  57 
Plampyn,  89 
Plampyon,  21 
Plantagenet,  313 
Plater,  144,  296 
Playne,  282,  347 
Pleasance,  177,  183,  184,  261, 
355 

Pledger,  186 
Plompton,  350 


Plume,  107,  256,  259,  260,  261 
Plymptou,  354 
Poland,  366 
Pole,  249 

Poley,  143,  145,  190,  238,  239, 
240,  390 
Poll,  133 
Pollard,  147 
Polley,  82,  238 
Polsted,  288 
Ponder,  1 6,  25,  34-39 
Poole,  186 
Pope,  29,  216,  218 
Popplewell,  187,  188 
Port,  156,  157,  159,  227,r228 
Porter,  227,  230,  292 
Portsmouth,  E.  of,  288 
Portte,  227 
Potter,  366 
Potts,  293 
Poulter,  295 

Pound,  Pounds,  310,  311 
Powell,  9,  109,  116,  117,  119, 
132-135,  205,  265,  301, '319, 
390 

Powlden,  7,  18, ^25 
Power,  366 
Powys,  Lord,  135  j 
Poyuings,  350 

Poyntell,  111,  112,  113,  *116, 
119,321 
Poynter,  218 
Praed,  30 

Pratt,  230,  334,  351 

Prentice,  278,  330 

Preston,  239 

Preiyman,  193,  305,  347 

Price,  99,  319,  359,  381,  382 

Pricke,  296 

Probart,  134 

Proctor,  186 

Prophett,  101 

Provence,  313 

Prowse,  199,  200 

Prvme,  280 

Pullen,  98,  279 

Puliston,  157 

Pulteuey,  288 

Purcell,  319 

Purveye,  40 

Pye,  106,  107 

Pyemont,  261 

Pygott,  142,  147 

Pykenham,  374 

Pyper,  148 


Quarles,  226 


Rabett,  196,  197,  385 
Radcliff,  47,  205,  209,  213,  247, 
340,  354 

Radnor,  E.  of,  47 
Rafe,  213 
Ragg,  21 

Rainborough,  21,  48,  155-159 
Rainbow,  48 

Rainsborough,  26,  155-159 
Raiusford,  144 
Haleigh,  20,  274 
Rame,  279 


INDEX  NOMINUM, 


407 


Rammysbury,  158 
Ramsey,  189,  190 
Rand,  65,  330 
Randall,  187,  188 
Randolph,  296 
Raney,  113,  118,  119 
Ran  now,  295 
Ransom,  186 
Rant,  254,  355 

liaveu,  10,  56,  77,  78,  82,  117, 
176,  183,  285 
Raw,  366 
Rawling,  23 
Rawlins,  304 
Ra  worth,  191 
Rawsor,  242 

Ray,  115,  141,  260,  265,  383 
Ray  el  ton,  102 
Rayment,  284,  285 
Raymond,  36,  46,  267 
Rayne,  264 
Rayner,  317,  346 
Raynham,  186 
Ravstou,  206,  211 
Read,  27,  64,  80,  87,  150,  160- 
164,  190,  226,  249,  257,  293, 
331,  369,  390 
Rebow,  288 
Reddish,  319 
Rede,  147 
Redfern,  71,  73 
Redgrave,  214,  269,  270 
Redgriff,  269 
Redman,  254 
Reed,  190,  194 
Reedliam,  223,  391 
Reeve,  101,  106,  107,  232,  238, 
254,  297,  381,  384 
Reeves,  370 
Reginald,  134 
Re  ice,  103 
Reincon,  346 
Renire,  346 
Repence,  346 
Repps,  190 
Rerland,  1 1 ,  34 
Retherick,  112 
Reve,  als.  Milforth,  106 
Revett,  109,  169,  206,  211,214, 
355 

Reymer,  369 
Reynold,  62,  361 
Reynolds,  59,  99,  141,  300,  318, 
352,  356,  364,  365 
Riccard,  171 
Rice,  103,  104,  160 
Rich,  119,  154,  171,  206,  211, 
279,  282,  354 
Richard  I,  286 
Richard  II,  152 
Richard  III,  242 
Richards,  27 

Richardson,  124,  261.  287 
Richmond,  193,  235 
Ricketts,  314 
lliden,  284 
Ridley,  288 
ltiilsdale,  337 
Riddle-dale,  23 
Rio,  287 

ltisby,  6.  9,  10,  25,  66-73,  105, 
106,  107.  119,  289,  293 
Risheworth,  351 
Riscowe,  214 


Ritson,  366 
Rives,  363 

Rivers,  E.,  136,  146,  152 
Rixe,  222 

Roberts,  39,  239,  355 
Robertson,  173,  249,  250 
Robins,  28 

Robinson,  249,  250,  261,  314 

Rob- John,  122 

Robson,  122 

Roche,  30,  324 

Rochester,  152 

Roet,  347 

lloffa,  152 

Roffe,  118 

Rogers,  28,  112,  120,  246,  284, 
330,  332,  367,  3S2 
Rogerson,  261 
Rogle,  369,  370 

Rokewood,  143,  190,  191,  193, 
234,  235,  293,  329,  335,  347, 
354  355 

Rolfe,’  51,  120,  286,  293 
Rolleston,  318 
Roos,  Lord,  313 
Roose,  374 
Rosenton,  202 
Rosier,  106,  107 
Ross,  66,  70,  73 
Roth,  Routh,  133,  159 
Rotherham,  293 
Rothes,  E.  of,  314 
Rous,  190,  209,  293,  380,  381, 
386 

Roux,  174 
Rowett,  346 
Rowning,  59,  62 
Rowse,  151 
Rowt,  36,  39 
Rowton,  347,  348 
Roydon,  136,  143,  144 
Rudland,  11,  51,  53 
Rudhale,  132 
Rugge,  191 
Ruggle,  870 
Ruunyon,  75 
Ruse,  260 

Rush,  220,  227,  228,  239 
Russell,  46,  332,  346,  354 
Russhell.  37 
Rutland,  55 
Rutter,  122 

Ryce,  70,  103,  105,  106 
Rycks,  235 

ltvece,  103,  145,  322,  326,  329, 
'335 

Rynebald,  356 
Ryvett,  see  Revett 


Sadler,  215,  297,  309  310,  311, 
351 

St.  Gedney,  165 
St.  George,  1,  9,  360 
St.  German,  153 
St.  Jerrnyn,  152 
St.  John,  28,  32,  47,  80,  82, 
135,  157,  213,  316,  321,  374, 
383 

St.  Lys,  St.  Lishe,  137 
St.  Maur,  354,  357,  358 
St.  Vincent,  E.,  314 
Salisbury,  E.  of,  98,  99 


Salter,  105,  107,  209 
Saltier,  288 

Saltonstall,  46,  284,  288,  364, 
391 

Samewayes,  207,  209,  213 
Sarnon,  123 
Sampson,  144,  254 
Sand,  23 
Sanders,  158 
Sandford,  216 
Sandon,  83 

Sands,  8,  89,  279,  282,  324,  340 

Saunders,  317,  349,  364 

Savage,  24 

Savill,  172 

Sawer,  214,  215 

Sawen,  160 

Sawyer,  331 

Saxcen,  58 

Saxhain,  345,  346,  350,  357, 
358,  371 

Saye,  136.  143,  145 
Sayer,  287,  309,  311 
Scalarijs.  de,  137 
Scales,  75,  137,  146,  152,  153, 
262,  375,  376 
Scarlett,  196,  343  • 

Scawen,  172 

Scott,  148,  214,  250,  254,  259, 
260,  261,  351,  354 
Seriveuor,  209,  220,  222 
Sear,  75 

Seargent,  319,  360 
Sears,  27  • 

Sebor,  27 
Seckford,  81,  347 
Sedgwick,  264 

Sedley,  283,  285,  286,  287,  288, 
391,  393 
Seimpson,  140 
Sely,  17,  241,  246,  247,  248 
Selyne,  99 
Seman,  138 
Semovitius,  152,  153 
Serle,  3C0 
Sewall,  303 

Sexton,  66,  67,  69,  73,  273, 
286,  289-293,  322,  328,  329, 
335 

Shardelow,  142 
Sharesliull,  373 

Sharpe,  4,  9,  10,  14,  25,  40-41, 
47,  214 

Shawe,  398,  355 
Shawtman,  196 
Shaxlev,  235 
Sheaf,  306,  307 
Sheldon,  230 
Sheldrake,  192 
Shelley,  258 
Shelton,  329 
Shene,  122 
Slieppei  d,  230,  234 
Sherbrooke,  172 
Sheriff,  370 
Sherington,  376 
Sherlaud,  190,  191 
Sherlock,  44 

Sherman,  25,  87,  295,  297,  300 
Sherwood,  207,  213 
Shiminge,  204 
Shipbrooke,  E.  of,  172,  174 
Shipman,  191 
Shirriff,  27 


Shoppe,  100,  101 

Shorte,  145,  301,  306,  353 

Shouldham,  278,  292 

Shrewsbury,  E.  of,  313 

Shrimpton,  318 

Shryve,  195,  196 

Shutz,  367 

Sibbs,  185 

Sibthorpe,  307,  308 

Siday,  206,  210,  211,  282,  364 

Sidenham,  199,  200,  218 

Sidmouth,  Viscount,  386 

Siegfried,  174 

Silesia,  D.  of,  153 

Simpson,  338 

Singleton,  335 

Skeels,  365 

Skeys,  29 

Skinner,  222,  226,  249 
Skipwith,  249 
Sheer,  28 
Sliugsby,  319 
Small,  55,  267 
Smalley,  319 
Smart,  107 
Smere,  184 
Smethies,  177 

Smith,  30,  38,  39,  44,  48,  55, 
58,  62,  63,  66,  71,  73,  83,  85, 
87,  100,  114,  119,  125,  126, 
127,  131,  143,  144,  145,  168, 
169,  171,  183,  184,  185,  191, 
194,  195,  196,  199,  207,  209, 
212,  213,  214,  215,  218,  221, 
223,  224,  225,  233,  242,  244, 
246,  247,  248,  249,  250,  251, 
284,  285,  293,  302,  317,  320, 
321,  329,  338,  355,  364,  365, 
368,  376,  386,  390,  391 
Snelgrave,  382 

Snelling,  8,  23,  63,  77,  78,  79, 
82,  88,  89,  100,  239,  240 
Soame,  191,  249,  364 
Some,  158 
Somerset,  135 
Sonnibank,  253,  254,  270 
Sooue,  203 
Sorrell,  213 

Sotehill,  350,  354,  357,  358 
South,  381,  386 
Southalls,  191,  194 
Southcott,  114,  120,  374 
Southwell,  114,  118,  119,  278, 
293,  347,  349 

Spalding,  43,  178,  179,  184 
Spans  wick,  162 
Sparhawk.  330 
Sparke,  185 

Sparrow,  39.  51,  73,  145,  210, 
214  263,  264,  265,  299,  311, 
314,  390 

Speade,  77,  78,  82 
Spelmau,  223,  355,  391 
Spencer,  13.  Ill,  338 
Spensley,  336,  368 
Spering,  342 
Spicer,  98,  99 
Spouev,  18 

Sporley,  211,  212,  213,  214,  215 
Spring,  66,  68,  69,  70,  73,  219, 
286,  293,  323,  329,  335 
Springold,  200 
Spurge,  216 
Spurling,  186 


SUFFOLK  MANORIAL  FAMILIES. 


408 


Spy  re,  70 
Stacy e,  81,  351 
Stafford,  135,  143,  148,  354 
Stalham,  168 
Stamer,  122,  123,  131 
Stamford,  E.  of,  354 
Standrett,  317 
Stane,  191 
Stannard,  380 
Stansby,  284 
Stanton,  100,  102 
Starling,  338 
Statham,  333,  364 
Stebbing,  170,  210,  214,  215, 
299 

Stebon,  265 
Stedwell,  87 
Steedman,  151 
Steele,  230 
Steff,  215 
Stephen,  123 
Stephen,  King,  133 
Stephens,  31,  237 
Stephenson,  237,  287 
Sterling,  228,  347 
Sterne,  130 
Stevens,  332 

Stewart,  27,  187,  313,  314,  367 
Still,  1,  5,  9,  10,  49,  55,  74-76, 
165,  389 

Stirrop,  37,  38,  39 
Stisted,  84,  85,  237 
Stocke,  240 
Stookeu,  173 
Stoddard,  51,  99 
Stonard,  164 
Stone,  122,  186,  188 
Stoner,  107,  354 
Stonore,  136,  373 
Story,  331 
Stoteville,  143 
Stout,  365 

Stradbroke,  E.  of,  386 

Stradiinge,  135 

Strange,  313 

Strangman,  103 

Street,  308 

Strelley,  191 

Strode,  172,  324 

Strong,  307,  308,  312,  314 

Strutt,  58 

Stubbs,  324 

Stukely,  358 

Sturgeon,  136 

Stutter,  187 

Stuyvesant,  27 

Style,  301,  311 

Styles,  52,  298,  299,  300,  303 

Suckling,  355,  369,  370,  389 

Suffolk,  E.  of,  106,  153 

Sugar,  185 

Sulyard,  190,  191,  192,  225 
Summer,  331 
Surrey,  23,  137 
Sussex,  E.  of,  47,  173 
Sutherland,  387 
Sutton,  351 
Swain,  332 

Swatman,  195,  196,  197 
Swett,  284 
Swettiug,  346 
Swynford,  313,  346,  347 
Sycer,  295 
Sydley,  282 


Sydney,  347,  349 
Sylesdeu,  192 
Syliarde,  161 
Symes,  64 

Symonds,  163,  164,  331,  332 


Talbot,  146,  313,  314,  382 
Talor,  le,  242 
Tanner,  356,  380,  381 
Tasborough,  118,  120,  124,  195, 
196,  197 
Tasshe,  352 
Taston,  275 
Tay,  347 

Taylor,  27,  59,  62,  122,  131, 
185,  186,  233,  241-248,  267, 
301,  337,  341,  353,  380,  384 
Tchoragwanegan,  333 
Tebb,  266,  267 
Telham,  86 
Temple,  27,  36,  185 
Templeton,  188 
Tench,  264 
Tendring,  142 
Terry,  318 
Tesche,  358 
Tesehinia,  L).  of,  152 
Thatcher,  169 
Theobald,  367 

Thomas,  28,  133,  134,  135,  303, 
330,  387 

Thompson,  40,  41,  106,  107, 
367 

Thorne,  79,  145,  192,  240,  358 

Thornhagh,  288 

Thornmode,  378 

Thornton,  143,  379,  354,  385 

Thorpe,  172,  286 

Thorrenton,  379 

Throgmorton,  144,  171 

Thurgood,  356 

Thurlby,  83 

Thursby,  30 

Thurstou,  41,  332,  346 

Thwaytes,  196 

Tibetoft,  de,  313 

Tichborne,  390 

Tilden,  330 

Till,  268 

Tillie,  320 

Tilliote,  176,  183 

Tillott,  187 

Tilton,  332 

Todd,  331,  366 

Toker,  209 

Toler,  288 

Tolle,  349 

Tolman,  26 

Tompion,  308 

Tomsane,  105 

Tongue,  27,  319 

Tooker,  213 

Toppesfield,  189,  190 

Tovell,  42 

Towel],  42 

Towend,  366 

Townes,  247,  248 

Townsend,  26,  47 

Townson,  381 

Tracy,  Trace,  143,  195 

Trammell,  214 

Treadwell,  332 


Tregonwell,  246 
Trench,  185 

Trenchard,  314,  358,  359 
Trenfield,  191 
Troutbeck,  313 
Trussell,  142 
Tryppe,  35,  67 
Tuke,  322 
Tulle,  363,  365 

Turner,  90,  101,  102,  107,  116, 
141,  227,  235,  300,  327,  328, 
333,  371 
Turtchell,  331 
Tweed,  Twede,  210,  211 
Twynes,  48 
Tye,  214 
Tyle,  161 

Tyler,  Tvlor,  11,  290 
Tvlney,  147,  367 
Tyudal,  8,  26,  28,  33,  86,  146- 
154 

Tymms,  350 

Tyrrell,  94,  114,  118,  120,  190, 
213,  354,  362,  365,  374 


Ufflet,  136,  255,  256 
U fiord,  152,  153 
Ulcotes,  286 
Underhill,  332 
TJnale,  106,  107 
Upcher,  48,  153 
Usher,  94 
Utber,  380 


Yale,  120 
Valoines,  152 
Van,  133 
Vandeput,  367 
Vane,  320,  321 

Vaughan,  9,  116,  117,  132,  134, 
135 

Vavasor,  143 

Vere,  62,  65,  146,  301,  303 
Vernon,  26,  33,  125,  126,  127, 
129,  131,  172,  173,  174 
Verulam,  Lord,  178 
Veryard,  249 

Vesey,  5,  25,  50,  55,  56-65,  110, 
114,  119,  152,  164,  175,  267, 
370,  389 
Vetch,  333 
Vigerous,  370 
Villers,  269,  350 
Vintner,  81 
Violet,  357 
Vychan,  133 
Vyne,  275 
Vyrley,  361 


Wace,  316 
Waiukford,  60 
Wain wright,  26,  312,  314 
Wake,  345,  357 
Wakeman,  144 
Walcope,  359 
Walcott,  303 

Waldegrave,  89,  114,  119,  143, 
144,  278,  282,  286,  313,  314, 
329,  337,  352,  354,  357 


Wales,  192,  237 
Walker,  174,  218,  284,  330 
Walkote,  142 
Wallenger,  47,  164 
Walley,  60,  62 
Wallopp,  46 
Walpole,  329,  336,  355 
Walrond,  28 
Walsliall,  307 

Walsingliam,  47,  145,  245,  354, 
357,  358 
Waltheof,  313 

Walton,  58,  62,  117,  118,  119, 
321 

Wangford,  62 
Wanton,  153,  189 
Warburton,  144,  157 
Ward,  12,  14,  26,  65,  107,  118. 
120,  158,  251,  252,  254,  267, 
330,  347,  380,  385 
Ware,  25,  99 
Warhara,  277 
Warne,  215 

Warner,  28,  31,  110,  120,  355, 
356,  382 
Warre,  233 
Warrell,  167 

Wanvn.  55,  63,  110,  119,  137, 
142,  187,  192,  223,  238,  313, 
374 

Waspe,  12 
Wast,  57 

Waters,  115,  216,  355,  368 
Waterson,  47 
Waterville,  163,  374 
Watevilie,  163,  373,  374 
Watkins,  163 

Watson,  234,  261,  341,  344,  368 

Watt*,  193 

Watwytt,  156,  158 

Waynforth,  116,  119 

Way  the,  170 

Weald,  161 

Webbe,  130, 178,  179,  186,  245, 
247,  262 
Webster,  253 
Welby,  349 

Welch,  30,  279,  324,  325,  366 
Weld,  167 
Weldon,  374 
Welles,  Lord,  313 
Welliuge,  254,  270,  329 
Wells,  347 

Wellysham,  189,  190 
Welsh,  133,  135 
Welstead,  266 
Welton,  214 
Wemyss,  E.  of,  314 
Wenceslaus  IV,  153 
Wentworth,  26,  145,  154,  190, 
191,  217,  225,  313,  314,  334, 
358 

Wenyeve,  62 
Wenyff,  70,  296 
West,  50,  115,  143,  207,  208, 
213,  347 
Westbrook,  191 
Westcott,  235 
Westmoreland,  Lady,  47 
Weston,  77,  78,  82,  100,  102, 
152,  153,  392 
Westrop,  260 
Weyland,  142,  274 
Wharton,  27,  135 


♦ 


INDEX  NOMINUM. 


Wheatcroft,  119,  145 
Wheathill,  322,  329,  335 
Wheeler,  301 
Whetcroft,  119,  124.  140 
Whinborough,  356 
Whinnery,  197 
Whipple,  331,  332 
Whitbread,  316 
White,  143,  169,  187,  229,  29/, 
312,  331,  366 
Whiter,  226 

Whiting,  13,  36,  37,  38,  39,243 
Whitmore,  76,  151 
Whittall,  152,  153 
Whittingham,  166,  167,  331 
Whitton,  271,  272 
Whitwell,  345,  347,  348,  372 
Whytchurch,  110 
Wicks,  171 
Wighfcman,  351 
Wilbraham,  301 
Will  .ore,  36 
Wilby,  169 
Wilcox,  53 

Wildboar,  316,  318,  320,  321 
Wikle,  270,  380 
Wilgres,  228 
Wilkes,  249 

Wilkinson,  198,  199,  200,  261, 


366 

Willard,  331 
Willes,  100 
Willey,  26 
William,  133,  134 
Williams,  27,  28,  32,  36,  200, 
317,  333,  334,  342,  367,  378, 


380 


Williams,  Lord,  358 


Williamson,  230,  368 
Willis,  91,  92,  95 
Willm's,  319 

Willoughby,  31,  190,  258 
Wilson,  87,  250,  261,  262,  316, 
333,  367 
Wilton,  355 
Winckfield,  66 
Wiude,  see  Wynde 
Wingfield,  73,  106,  118,  119, 
154,  217,  221,  234,  352,  357, 
369 

Winn,  332,  385 
Winter,  368 

Winterflood,  272,  281,  338 
Winthrop,  1-33,  36,  37,  39,  40, 
41,  42,  44,  45,  46,  47,  55,  63, 
66,  70,  73,  76,  78,  79,  82,  83, 
84,  86,  87,  89,  90,  91,  92,  93, 
95.  96,  99,  100,  102,  104, 
105,  107,  113,  114,  119,  124, 
125,  127,  129,  131,  132,  135, 
141,  144,  149,  150,  152,  153, 
154,  157,  168,  159,  163,  164, 
165,  166,  167,  315,  327,  338, 
340,  344,  389,  390,  391,  393 
Wise,  331 

Wiseman,  119,  170,  190,  298, 
363,  365,  390 
Wistowe,  160 
Witherden,  304,  311  ^ 

Withers,  262,  375,  376 
Withypol,  120,  165,  351 
Witte  wrong,  173,  174 
Woder,  107 

Wodehouse,  277,  288,  356,  358, 
870 

Wolcott,  331 


Wolfe,  89 
Wolsey,  293 
Wolverstone,  110 
Wood,  35,  143,  156,  157,  159, 
175,  246,  363,  387 
Woodbridge,  330 
Woodbury,  331,  332 
Woodcock,  192,  297,  298,  388, 
391 

Wooder,  106 

Woodgate,  204,  205,  224,  226, 
264,  316,  321 

Woodhall,  296,  297,  310,  311 
Woodhouse,  see  Wodehouse 
Woodleaf,  358 
Woodroffe,  98,  203,  287,  389 
Woods,  369 
Woodside,  157 
Woodville,  146 

Woodward,  183,  187,  224,  229, 
230 

Woodwoorke,  106 

Woolnowe,  325 

Woolward,  224 

Worcester,  E.  of.  135 

Worlich,  106, 107, 184,  259,  261 

Wotton,  Lord,  352 

Wragg,  234 

Wrangham,  187 

Wray,  350,  351,  354 

Wren,  Bp.  181 

Wright,  79,  82,  145,  1/8,  181, 
186,  208,  210,  212,  264,  264, 
265,  267,  293,  295,  333 
Wriothsley,  216 
Wrixon,  29 
Wrought,  39 
Wyatt,  172,  247,  248 


409 


Wybard,  252,  253,  254,  268,  270 

Wychinghatn,  190 

Wydeville,  144 

Wye,  144,  249 

Wyles,  224 

Wyld,  185,  203 

Wyman,  332 

Wyncoll,  70,  73,  144,  279,  286, 
325 

Wyndas,  35 
Wynde,  363,  365 
Wynnifi,  296 
Wynnyark,  75 
Wythersby,  143 


Yallop,  269,  270 
Yarmouth,  349 
Yates,  27 
Yaxley,  190 
Ychan,  135 
Yeamon,  12 
Yeardley,  226 
Yeldred,  217 
Yelverton,  152,  153,  354 
Yeman,  12 
Yerworth,  134 
Yuyr,  King,  133 
Yole,  282 

Young,  30,  118,  120,  363,  365 


Zouch,  153,  352,  354 


3f 


